THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 9.
KAKHE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, MA11CII 25, 191(5.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
S4
ARTILLERY
IS ACTIVE
Duel Kept Up in the Woevre
District, Taris Offi
cially Reports
GERMANS REPORT
VERDUN BURNING
PUGILISTS SPAR
WITH MOUTHS
AS FIGHT NEARS
Willard Declarer lie ii Positive That Ht
Will Be the Winner, While Moras
Predict! He Will Knock
Willard Out
To-night.
New York, March 25. Thirteen thous
and spectators, of whom probably
will bo women, will crowd the Madison
Square Garden to-night to see Frank Mor
an of Pittsburg try to wrest tlio world's
heavyweight championship from Jess
Willu'rd of Kansas. Although the bout
is not announced as a title contest and
no referee decision is penuissable under
the state boxing laws, Moran might win
the chainiionshi() either by a knockout,
foul by Willard or Willard'a failure to
go the full ten rounds.
Doth men are confident of victory to
day. Willard said this morning: "It is
l"Bris. March 25. The French ofllcml hard for me to sav how I will w in. That
statement says the past night was quiet ji w ill bo the victor is the most positive
statement I can make. If Moran starts I
a rush battle I am satisfied 1 will knock
him out." ' .
Moran said: "Do not bo surprised to
see the finish come in the seventh or
eighth round. Then you will see Wil
lard drop." ,
In boxing ability the two pugilists are
conceded to be about equal, but beyond
that point JYillard has a marked advan
tage over Moran in almost every depart
ment of glove fighting as well as in
physical make-up. lie will outweigh
Moran by close to fifty pounds, stand be
tween five and six inches above the Pitts
burg slugger and have a longer reach,
of more than six inches, than Moran.
Both East and West of the
Meuse There Was No
Movement
In tho Verdun district, both cast and
weft of the Meuse. Artillery duelB were
in progress in the Woevre region.
The French war office communication
last night follows:
"In the Argonne following the explo
sion of one of our mines at Vatiquois, the
enemy attacked and succeeded in mo
mentarily gaining a footing in one of
our first line trenches. We expelled him
at once through counter-attacks in which
we made about 30 prisoners.
' "The activity of our artillery contin
ues intense against the line of German
communications in the eastern Argonne
and also on the woods of Malanoourt and
Avoeourt. '
"In the region north of Verdun no
events of importance occurred during the
day, except intermittent bombardments j
of our second lines west and east of the
Meuse. Our batteries replied energeti
cally. Northeast of St. Mihicl the fire
by our long-range pieces on the Vig
neulles station gave good results. A
warehouse was demolished and a train
which was in the station was blown up."
HEAVY LOSS
OF LIFE FEARED
ON THE SUSSEX
Americans Were Aboard the
Cross - Channel Steamer,
and It Is Probable That
Some of Them Died After
Explosion Near the Coast
of France
PARIS REPORTS SAY
VESSEL TORPEDOED
The Disabled Steamer Was
Towed to Boulogne To
day, and 75 or More Peo
ple Are Said to Be Unac
counted For There Were
436 All Told
SAYS VERDUN IS BURNING.
German Army Headquarters Gave Infor
mation. Berlin, March 25. Verdun is in flames,
According to to-day's official statement
by the German headquarters.
London, March 25. The cross-channel
steamer Sussex, which was seriously
Both are extremely powerful hitters in damaged last night near the French coast,
proportion to their size but here gnin :g towed into joulogne to-day, aecord.
irive him a wide margin over Moran. The!,n8 to a dispatch to the Central News.
Kxchange Telegraph company. Four sur-1
vivnrs were picked up od the Dogger
bank bv the Norwegian steamer Active
and were landed at lqeu!mgen to-day
J he other members of the crew are be
lieved to have perished.
BRITISH STEAMSHIP
SALYBIA IS SUNK
All Her Passengers and Crew Are Re
ported By Lloyds' to Have Been
Saved Ship Left Barbadoes
March 3 for London. ,
London, March 2.'). A Lloyds' report
says that the British steamship Salybia
has been sunk and that her passengers
and crew were eaved.
The Salvbia in the last available ship
ping records was reported as having left
the Barlmdoe on March 3 for London.
MANY GRANITE SITUATIONS.
It is regarded as certain thai some lives
were lost. Probably it was an explosion
which caused the damage.
Edward Huxley, president of the Unit
ed States Rubber Exportation company,
body is not so difficult, but in all his;nu rancl r "lander
bouts to date the Kansan has shown """iv . " -
ability to take very hard blows in his
hitter is the more agressive boxer of the
two but the champion's towering height
and ability to block with his long arms
militate against the chance of the small
er pugilist lauding a knockout blow to I
the head. The task of reaching Willard'a i
GERMAN RAIDER
GREIF WAS SUNK
BY MERCHANTMAN
Encounter Which Took Place In the
North Sea on Feb. 29 Was Report
ed in London To-day for the
First Time.
London, March 25. The German raid
er Greif has been sunk in the North sea
by the British armed merchantman Al
cantara which herself was sunk. Five
German officers and 150 men out of a
total of 300 were captured. The British
lost 74 men.
The fight occurred in the North sea on
Feb. 29, it was Inter announced. The
Greif wrs sunk by gunfire arid the Al
cantara by a torpedo. The British losses
were made up of five officers and B9 men.
midsection without slowing up. from a
defensive standpoint Willard is consid
ered to be one of the best equipped box
ers of his division in many years.
Tin a Art.iallvr fimm i.tu l.l.i nlTun an-kl t
when aroused, but, as a rule,' lacks the! W"d 100 hve been
.,,., ;.,... ...:.,,. c. ,n lanueu at inrr aim nooui .,w imsai-u-
"f, V I 1 1 III I, II I V I ,1 -1 , V "111 1 1 vili "i
ciminnpnl; of foran' calibre in ten round Kers
were rescued. Iliey reported a Heavy
loss of life, including probably several
Americans. Miss Baldwin, daughter of a
prominent American resident of Paris
was seriously injured.
According to official information he-
passe
crew are in
or less. His best blows are a short left
jab and a right hand uppercut. These
blows he uses almost continually and ow
ing to his long reach and great strength
the punches carry terrilic power when
Willard puts full force into them. Under
pressure he can and does fight with other
blows and -carries a knockont in either
hand when mixing savagely. In his awk
ward and ponderous style Willard is al
most as fast on his feet as Moran, al
though he seldom uses footwork to avoid
and members' of the
France.
Opinion among the survivors is divided
as to whether the Sussex was damaged
by a torpedo or by a mine. The explo
sion occurred at 3 p. m, when the steam
er had been an hour and a half out of
Folkatone. The wireless apparatus was
destroyed and no help arrived Until mid
night. Her water-tight compartments
kept the vessel from sinking.
Sussex Owned by French.
The Sussex is owned bv the French
In Some Places Early Settlements are
Said to Be Expected,
Reports received In Barre concerning
the industrial situation in other granite
centers are interesting at this tune, in
asmuch as in some Instances the condi
tions parallel the situation which ob
tained in this city only a year ago. From
authentic quarters brief reports on the
negotiations for settlement indicate that
in Borne sections the prospects for a short
uspension are favorable, while in other
districts the employers and employes
seem hopelessly deadlocked.
Quincy manufacturers met with the
cutters March 22 and the resrilt was a
eadlock on the length of the agree
ment. No further meetings are in pros
pect. In Rockport, Mass., there are no
mmedmte prospects of a change and the
cutters, quarrymen and paving cutters
are still out. Stony Creek, Conn., gran
ite workers are still out and the situa-
ion remaina unchanged. Westerly pav
ing cutters are not working. In Fitzwil
liam, N. H., where the Webb company
is standing out for a 1920 agreement and
the elimination of alleged objectionable
clauses, there appears to be little of a
change. A small firm, employing two or
three men, is said to be contemplating
a settlement at proposed by the employ
es. Kcene, N. H granite workers are out
at the present time with the 1020 agree
ment as the main contention. Agree
ments in Concord, N. If., expire May 1
and nothing has been accomplished, thus
far, toward a settlement. No settlement
BANDIT BREAKS
OUT OF CIRCLE;
FLEES WEST
Report Received in El. Paso
To-day Said That Villa
m Had Successfully Eluded
His Pursuers and Is Now
in the San Miguel Coun
try of Mexico
NEWS NOT CONFIRMED
IN ANY SOURCES
Report of His Escape from
American and Carranza
Troops Was Brought from
El Valle American Bor
der Towns Call for Protection
EI Paso, Texas, March 23. Francisco
Villa was reported early to-day fleeing
cross the bonier near the ranch and ride
to a water hole a mile and a half north.
After watering their horses, they rode
back across the line. lie added that
.within a short time a number of troop
ers of the 12th cavalry hud come 'to the
ranch house and moved in an exictid
manner.
The live civilians passed a sleepless
night, sitting in the car, while the sol
diers crouched around them in a pour
ing rain, on guard. J lio soldiers told
$1,300 GIVEN
,ON POLICY
J' . Returned a Verdict for
them that the bodies of two women and J j. ; Annie VV. btanyan 1"
a man had been found in an automobile .?
TROOPS ASSIGNED
TO BORDER TOWNS
County Court
Major-General Funston Answers Petition
for Protection Against Mexican
Depredations.
San Antonio, Tex., March 25. In an
swer to protests from residents at Presi
dio, Marfe and Del Rio, Tex., for more
protection, Major-General Funston to-
lay announced, that a battalion of the
24th Infantry, now on the way here
from Fort Russell, will be stationed in
that district.
SUED FOR INSURANCE
AS BENEFICIARY
FOR BORDER PROTECTION.
Senate Republicans Take Up Discussion
of Plans.
Security Mutual Insurance
Company Was the
Defendant .
The case of Annie W. Stanyan vs. tho
Security Mutual Assurance company, re
sulting from the failure of the defendant
company to pay the amount of a life in-
fillrnnpa nnlipv in 4hn luiniiflniapir 'i f 4 1 it
Washington, I). C, March 25. Uneasy I Pfitat of Lvnmn R..r Ui of WW.
over the situation1 on the Mexican border, I worth. vr u. wa. jVen"to the inrv lit
the Senate Republicans to-day held a , this forenoon in Vhinirtnn ,,.nl.v
conference with a view to determining otirt. Tho rfri!m,.nt - mmn..nl
upon a plan to ask for more troops to i yesterday afternoon.
protect the border. The conference ad
journed until Monday without action.
JDetlnite steps will be taken on Monday.
CONCERT WHOLLY GOOD.
Louis Ross Scottish Company Appeared
Under Clan Auspices,
A most enjoyable concert composed for
west, in me an anguai country, nav-ithe most t of charac
mg successfully eluded the ring which ter gketchea an(i wing wag that pre
was wing urawn aoout mm oy tne Amer-1 pentpd m the opera house ia9t eVening
ii.ii ..iu 1 .... mo "- j before a large audience under the aus
or tne withdrawal westward was pic, of aan Gordon, xG. 12, (). S. C.
brought here from tl alle but it could The companv, the Louis Ross Scottish
not be confirmed at Fort Bliss or in the Concert company, was one of note, and
Mexican official circles. I sinners, dancers and other members ner-
Several thousand American soldiers are formed with a finish that won the closest
GERMAN LOSSES "AWFUL."
French Semi-Offiria! Report Described
Verdun Slaughter.
Paris, March 25. "The Germans
would have it believed that their losses
before Verdun were not greater than
those of the French army," says a semi
official note issued yesterday afternoon.
"The following example will show how
great the German sacrifices were:
"On the forenoon of March 0 the 1st
an opponent. At close quarters he should Btate railroads, but is managed by the
be able to hold Moran safely, although Brighton railroad. Before the war she
the latter will be dangerous if he can
tear loose long enough to uncover hij
ability and power as' an infighter
was employed in the night service be
tween New Haven and Dieppe, but fol-
owmg the outbreak of the hostilities her
Both pugilists virtually completed run was changed from Folkestone to
their training on Thursday and each Dieppe.
claims to be in perfect condition for the 1 The Brighton railroad last night is
battle. Moran has been on edge for tholgUed the following account of the acci
bout for close to two weeks and his j dent of the Sussex:
trainers have had more difficulty in hold- "The Sussex, sailing under a French
ing him to physical form than Willards' I flag in the Folkestone-Dieppe service, met
handlers. The champion was slow to with a mishan somewhere off-Dieppe on
round into condition since he had been
out of the ring almost a year while Mor
an, because of his recent bouts, respond
ed quickly to the conditioning routine,
and the elimination of the H4 inch tool.
The agreement i V aterford, Conn., ex
pires April 1, but it is understood that
the 1020 bill is agreeabln to both side.
Cutters in Stonington, Me., where the
agreement exp' a iL' 1. are 4Mjxrtd to
be willing to sign up for four years, al
though the "unfair stock" clause, as it Is
mil led, is kuII 111 contention. In (helms
ford, Mas., where tho present bill ex
pires May 1, the points of contention are
the unfair stock clause, length of new
agreement.
Down in Chelmsford a peculiar situa
tion has arisen with the quarrymen. It
it stated that the bill which they agreed
to sign and actually signed has been
turned down by qunrryworkers' bead
quarters and the employer has now been
served with demands greater than the
original.
known to be searching the country south
of Casas Grandes to locate the bandit.
The wire communication from El Paso
into Mexico is still interrupted and it is
believed that roving bands of Villa men
are responsible for the wire cutting, hav
ing been detached from the main band
for this purpose.
Major Sample, commanding the United
vet, is the report from Bethel, with thefstatc'' arn,y be at Columbus, has Wen
1920 vs. 1A21 contention uppermost. Mil jasked to investigate the report that Villa
ford, N. If., cutters are contending for
the 1921 bill, the "unfair stock" clause
bandits crossed the border eiaht miles
west of Columbus and murdered three
Americans, two women and a man. The
bandits, numbering 100, are said to have
returned to Mexico after the killing.
Why Chelmsford Agreement Was Repudiated.
BASEBALL FANS CELEBRATE.
Johnson at Havana, he should be able
. . 1 11. ..11 X . 1. A . - -
battalion of the Ifith ratriment reserve " l"c ,u" lc" ruu,,UB " lut' Dcu
of the fith German corns rtcWerl tho I " necessary,
Villa Geo of Vaux in columns of four.
The French allowed .the first company
to penetrate the village where it was
surprised by a machine gun fire and then
charged with bayonets. The survivors
those able to do so took refuge in a
house where they fell. This company,
the 13th, was annihilated.
"The 2d and 3d battalions of the same
liir naattniro tn-.lnv Tlipra wra
passengers aboard and a crew of about When interviewed at the headquarters
50, but it is impossible at present to of the quarryworkers' international as
trlve further particulars nor is the pas- soeiation this morning. Secretary F. W.
Willard. however, once he settled down : sender list available. At 8:30 o'clock Suitor stated that a minority number at
to hard work dropped weight and in-! this evening the vessel was still afloat ! Chelmsford bad signed a bill without an
creased his speed rapidly and while it ' in charge of a tug. It is assumed, thero- 'authorization from the international
is doubtful if he is in the same magni- fore, that all the passengers were saved." 1 headquarters. 1 he agreement, Mr. hmt
ficent shape that he was when he met I or characterized as "not only bad, but
CARRANZA PEEVED
AT SHIP HOLD-UP
But Was Informed That United States
Government Has No Intention of
Stopping His Ammunition.
Washington, D. C, March 25. Elesio
Arredondo, (ieneral Carranza'e ambassa
dor, protested to Secretary of State Lan
sing to-day that ammunition for Car
ranza, consigned on a ship leaving New
Vork yesterday, had been held up bv the
ctiktonw authorities. Secretary Lansing
told the ambassador there was no inten
tion to hold up CarranKa ammunition
and the delay was due to a preliminary
examination to assure the government
that the shipment would not reach his
enemies. It will be allowed to go forward.
TEXAS MILITIA WANTED.
Followers of Youthful Teams Had Ban
quet and Dance.
Memories of the 1015 baseball season
were revived last night in the Clan Gor
don hall when the three clubs represent-
Last night's dispatches said that there
were 3S6 passengers and 50 in the crew,
indicating that 75 or more are unac
counted for. Paris reports say that the
vessel was torpedoed.
ridiculous." He said that onlv seven
Border Towns are Feeling More and Mor?
Uneasiness.
El Paso, March 25. Evidences of the
FOUR AMERICANS
REPORTED MISSING
FROM ENGLISHMAN
regiment passed east of the village, at , ing leading junior teams in the city met ' , . . n ; . ,,T .. .
the same time, going forward in squads together for a mid-winter celebration. Consular Reports Received in Wa.hugton
to .the first French trenches. 1 The affair was under the direction of the
"The next day the 64th regiment of North Barre Red Sox who won the city
infantry of the" fith division of the 3d championship for junior teams last sea
German corps replaced, to the north of son and aside from recognizing their
Vaux. the decimated 10th regiment, but ability on the field of sport most of the
the 64th sustained such loss by the fire
of artillery that the attack which be
gan was countermanded.
"The battle of Verdun, which has con
tinued a month, has been made up of
similar episode, The German sacri
fices were awful.
"It is known that the 3d and ISth army
people present last evening were altto
willing to hand them the cup for a suc
cessful entertainment. The hall was elab
orated with many colored paper stream
ers and in front of the stage were three
large arches with the words Red Sox and
e da
ngth
Give Names of Men Supposed to
Have Been Lost When the
Ship Was Sunk.
attention of the audience. The clan in
years past has succeeded in bringing to
Barre Scottish entertainers of national
fame and its efforts last evening fell not
behind previous years.
John Semple, a baritone of worthy
mention, sang with fervor, "Hurrah for
the Highlands" and "March of the Cam
eron Men." Miss Jessie McLean had a
sweet contralto voice, which she used to
good advantage in singing "Mv Ain
Folk" and "We'd Better Bide Awee."
Miss Margaret Withers, a dramatic so
prano, with a rich, clear voice and pleas
ing personality, impressed her listeners
with her rendition of My Laddie and
"Scottish Blue Bells," 'With a soft and
tender voice, splendid translation and a
remarkable range, Robert , Bryden won
unstinted applause. . His selections were
"O A' the Airts the Wind Can Blaw"
and "Lass O'Ballochmvle." Tom Loner
gon brought laughter with his character
sketches. Besides the individual selec
tions the following duets were heard:
"Crooket Bawbee," Miss Withers and
Mr. Brvden; "Wet. Thou in the Cauld
Wast," Mis Withers and Miss McLean
"Larboard Watch," Messrs. Bryden and
Semple. The entire company also sang.
Hail to the Chief and .Scots V1iaHae,
besides the grand finale, "Auld Lang
Svne, in which the audience was invit
ed to join.
One of the most eniovable events on
the program was the dancing of the Ir
vine sisters, Missee Nellie and Jeanie.
Better dancing was never seen on the
local stnge. The girls were fast and
light on their feet and together with
their personal attraction the audience
thoroughly enjoyed their, "Highland
fling H.nd "Sailors Hornpipe." Am
brose Griffith as piper and Lyman Brack
ets as pianist added much to the enter
tainment. The piano used was kindly
loaned by H. A. Gould. The elan wiil
realize a good sum from the concert.
The jury returned a verdict this aft
ernoon for the plaintiff to recover $1,300,
the amount of the insurance and interest.
Jurors not serving on thw case, which
was commenced Thursday morning, wera
excused yesterday afternoon until Tues
day forenoon at 0 o'clock. In spite of
the fact that little was done on the first
week of court, four cases have been dis
posed of since the opening. Next Tues-
dav it is expected that the case of D. H.
McDonald va. Rev. Frederick McNeil will
be commenced. The defendant, it is an
nounced, will appear for himself. v
APPOINTEE INELIGIBLE.
fled that tlfev acted without authority.
S-eretary Suitor is contemplating a
corps hnd to he sent to the rear after ! existence.
marching to Verdun. j Carroll's orchestra furnished music for
"The corps had to have two-thirds of dancing which commenced at 8 o'clock,
its officers replaced and its gaps filled 'At 11:30 a halt was called and five ta
np with young recruits of the class of !bles were set for a banquet. When the
101 A, who were in a proportion of two- guests came to sit down it was discov-
fiftlis in each company. Even then, these ered that those in charge had undcresti
reinforcenients, sent from the interior, ' mated the crowd. There was no lack of
Washington, D. C, March 25. Consul
ar reports to the state department to
day say that the Dominion liner English
man, which sank near the British Ishs,
(was torpedoed and that four Americans I trip through Massachusetts in the course
are missing. The Englishman was a or wnicn ne may visit the branches al
th rft. 1004 nd 101ft representing the i horse ship bound for Portland, Me. The ' I helmsford Cap Ann and Stony Creek,
h..,t,tl. nf time that the el, h b been i missing Americans are: Peter Mc-Don- j where (in the latter place) the prospects
aia. a norse foreman, 01 iwision; ueorgc
McDonald, a trimmer, of Lawrence,
Mass.; P. Buckley and M. A. Burke,
whose addresses are unknown.
London, March 25. The steamer Eng
lishman of the Dominion line has been
sunk, according to Lloyds. It is stated
that thus far 68 survivors have been ac-
men were returning to work under the seriousness with which the local authori
agreement signed with the quarry own- ties reirard the border situation was sup
ers, whereas in normal times upward of ; pj,Hj iaBt night in an announcement by
100 quarrymen are employed at Chelms- Sheriff Pevton James Edwards that he
ford. A minimum of 24 cents per hour had telegraphed Governor James E. Fer
for quarrymen and plug drillers, it ap- liJulton that he believed the Texas Nation
pears, was fixed in the signed agreement. 'al Guard troops should be sent to the
Not far away, according to data at hand frontier.
in the secretary's office. 300 and 400 Cape sheriff Edwards said he "did not wish
Ann quarrymen are to have a higher to be considered an alarmist," but that
minimum. developments in Mexico convinced him
According to Secretary Suitor the tht additional protection was needed for
agreement signed by the Chelmsford min- j Americana along the border. He refused
onty is not legal lor the reason tht the ;to give the wording of his telegram or
constitution of the ouarrvworkers un- ..,. .,i.i;;nn,i ,. !, I
ion holds that a bill cannot lie sitmed tu'ht n,0rV Th. srtinn nf Sheriff ! n1 Summit lodge of Graniteville. Other
without authorization from the interna-1 uwr(i, tslten snhsennent to that of
tional headquarters. Sec. Suitor stated, 'the Arizona authorities in directing that
100, me v neimsrorti quarrymen wno, the border companies of the National
signed the agreement have been noti- ;Gnard of that state be recruited to full
war strength, gave renewed force to the
tension which early in the day showed
signs of relaxing.
GRAND WARDEN PRESENT
And Three N. E. 0. P. Lodjres Were Rep
resented at East Barre.
Three lodges figured in the annual
meeting of district No. 5, New England
Order of Protection, at East Barre last
evening, when many members or tne or
der assembled to greet the grand warden
of the Vermont branch, Henry D. Fill
more of Bennington. Millstone lodge of
East Barre had charge of the arrange
ments and ae its jruests there were pres-
I ent members of Barre lodge of this city
E. A. Francis Cannot Serve as Middle
sex License Commissioner.
The ineligibility of Edgar A. Francis of
Middlesex, one of the license commis-
sioners appointed Thursday, to serve ha
been discovered. Mr. ramus being in
eligible because he has yet to round out
a two years' residence in that town. Hi
resignation will probably be received by
the assistant judges so tliat someone
may be named in his place.
Mr. Francis, who 19 a farmer, lived for
number of years in Montpelier, on
what is known as the Worcester branch
road, his house being almost on the Mid
dlesex line. Nearly, but not quite, two
years ago he removed to a farm in Midi
dlesex where he now resides but tho
statutes governing the appointment of
license commissioners require a two
years' residence.
GRANITE FIRM'S
PRESIDENT DEAD
.. , 11;. .;., it, i.r;n !,. .v. i. ... ,,,. 1.1.1. ... couniea ior
v II iimiiuu i 1 1 u vr in ft, m.iix7 Ftiruiii ( vti uit-n, nun r ti t nil 11 nil (Aim taisi
of the corps to what it was before March quickly brought in and set up. Th
quet was a joy feast from start to
le ban- 1 1 recora 01 tne steamer r.ngnsn-
finioh 'man snows mar. sne sailed iroin fort-
During their last attacks the 3d corps for each table had its humorist and the ! I,,n,d' , Me- Fpbrary s- N'azaire
companies only minted about 120 rifles
instead of 200.
"Thco facts are a sufficient replv to
fun ran wild
At the close of the supper the tables!"
were again cleared away and the duncing ;
the l.erman allegations. .Moreover, it continued into the small hours.
must be admitted by any one that well- one step fancy whs the favorite for th?
armed tnxips. installed in defensive evening though orrasional fox trot and
works with mschine pins, as was the Portland fam-y were introduced. About
esse with the French, are able to inflict 60 couple mere present, representing
and Avonmouth. 1 he l-.nglishman was
la vessel of 5.257 tons and was owned by
t thth 1 iwt.iaatim Anil Diimininn S.4 ..a inal, in
r Company ui i.iwijkjvi. one was uuntl in
1..,...
for an earlv settlement are considered
promising at headquarters.
BABY WAS SAVED
BY DARING MAN
AMERICANS MURDERED.
Report Comes of Mexican Raid Across
the Border.
Rescued from Upper Floor of Burning
House by George Pspineau, Who
Jumped 20 Feetto the
Ground.
Douglas, Arix March 25 Three Amer
icans, two women and one man, were
killed near Gibson's line ranch on the
Mexico-New Mexico boundary line, eight'
miles west of Columbus, N. M.. between
four and five o'clock Wednesday after
noon, presumably by Mexicans, accord
ing to the story brought here by a party
of five Douglas people, who said they ar
rived on the scene shortly after the bod
ies had been removed by soldiers.
Rutland, March 25. An incident of the ! A command of I'nited States soldiers
fire which destroyed the residence of Mr. 'stationed at the Gibson ranch was said
nnd Mrs. Charles E. Tuttle here vester-!to have crossed the line in pursuit of
Portland, Mc March 25. The Domin
ion line steamer Knglihman, which wad
i, ...,, . n,.,hr. of .1.. .... .,1 ... x-a 'reported sunk in a dispatch from Urn
" "." ........... ... .... . ..,- .-".,- . . ,,, !..,. 1 .
WV'H inr ifoh van m-itui. t 1 win a 1.J 1 1
day, was the daring rescue of their little the slayers
grand lodge officer present included I.
(J. Bullock of Northfield, who is the
grand vice-warden, and Judge 1L W.
Scott of Barre, one of the pest grand
wardens. .
After the regular session, in which a
considerable amount of busines was
transacted, the members of Millvtone
hxlge served a substantial dinner. The
service was a very marked feature of the
banquet and many favorable comments
on the bill of fare were heard. Speech
making a part of the time after the din
ner hour. Grand Warden Fillmore spoke
pleasantly of the relations between the
fifth district and the gTnd lodge. Others!
who eonlrilaited to the speeehmaking
were Judge Scott and Mr. Bullock. It j
was announced that through an error in j
the state papers, the wrong dates had
Michael W. Nelson, Long Associated with!
the Granite Industry, Passed Away
This Morning Funeral To
Be Held Monday.
Michael Neleon, prominently iden
tified with the Barre granite industry for
more than a score of years and latterly
president of the Dewev Column & Cut
ting company, a concern which he aided
in organizing, passed away at his home,
81 Merchant street, this morning at
12:45 o'clock. Mr. Nelson had been in
impaired health since August, 1315, al
though his condition did not develop into.
critical stage . until recently. He is
survived bv seven children, a son and
daughter, Joseph M. Nelson and Misa
Elizabeth Nelson, by his first, and Thom
as, Frances, Alice, Irene and Paul Nelson.
A brother, John H. Nelson of Barre, has
been associated with the deceased in the
granite business for many yearn, and
there are also left two sisters, Mrs.
James Brown of this city and Mrs Mar
garet Coveney of St. Johnsbury.
.Michael William Nelson was born in
Tinwiek, P. Q., Jan. 14, 1863. As a boy
he went to St. Johnsbury in 1871 and
sevcrtol years later he came to Barre.
Hore he learned the granite cutter's
trade, serving his time in a ehop which
etood on the site of the present Central
Vermont station. After completing his
apprenticeship, he returned to St. Johns
bury, remaining there until 20 years ago.
He engiiged in the manufacturing busi
ness with James Brown and the Dewey
Column 4 Cutting works were founded.
Five -years after organization, John II.
Nelson wai admitted to the partnership.
Not many years ago, the company erect
ed an up-to-date granite cutting and
turning plant near Blackwell street.
Mr. Nelson's first wife was Miss Ra-
bina Gowan. whoso death occurred 2-1
years ago. For his second wife he mar
ried Misa Mary Cunningham of Danville
20 years ago. The deceased was one of
the charter members of Barre council.
No. 401, Knights of Columbus, and
served the council efficiently as a trus-.
tee. He also lielonged to St. John'
court". C. O. F., and Granite City camp,
M. W. of A. Mr. Nebtnn possessed
highly estimable character and it may be)
said that his efforts in the upbuilding of,
the granite industry in Barre were typi-
I of a group ot older manufacturers
ial of a
been given our in connection witn tne 1 nmw i. i-.r,;.n,- in,;n;i,ins
annual convention of the fate X. E. O. 'His death has brought sorrow to busi-'
r., as me gei-iogfmcr m lurnngton isnpss ,. jati- and t those with whom
to be held
and 17
April 25. instead of April 16
WITT "MAKING GOOD."
constantly attacks In compact ma.se the South End team and the Merlo's j
and whoe chiefs are not dismaved by academv team. Mr. and Mrs.
son, tnarles. from an upper story lied
room by George I'apineau. The latter not
only risked bis life by making his way
inroiik'n ine miming noue but he took
Samuel Collins, automobile dealer, Mr.
and Mrs. Rnseell T. Childers. Miss Ixt-
he was affiliated in other circles.
Funeral services arelto be held in St.
Monica's church Monday morning at ft,
o'clock. The parish priest. Rev. P. M.
McKenna. will be the officiating clergy
man. At 7:30 o'clock the body will b
taken over the M.intpelier A Wells Kiver
railroad to St. .lohnsburv. for interment
the bloodiest sacrifices.
WAS NATIVE OF VERMONT.
pini, Mr. and Mrs. Sylv
Mr. and Mrs. John David&on act.il
patrons and patroneses. The commit
tee in charge of the entertainment were
, Blossom Osola an I Arthur Broderik, the
1 manager and captain of the Red Sox
team of last last era-n. They were as-Gran-
iatei Jnrinir the srrvinir of th IdMn.!
.-..V,....
And Assistant Surgeon of the 12th Ver
moat Regiment
Vnord. X. H March 25 Dr.
ville Priest nn of this cily. formerly hr Carson. Morev. L. .vmith, Wildtroo-e.
1"'"" " '"r -"rw iruire Jieoicai irMrero and M nin.tti. R. Smith oS
eociety and member of the tate railroad tiated rok.
commission, died yesterday at Warne. i
Pa, ar.irding fc word received here. He !
as 4 jeara of age. In the Civil warj Xfi- F.thel Miller, mho has , spend
be was assistant eurpeun of the 12th ', me everal days in the cit y as the jrnet
erniont r-zimetn ani unr cm.i;i an 1 : t.f !rs. .lame Soot of I'leisant
edited fc:tory of New Iisirp;i;re aur- returiwd this fif.-n-xn to h-r
in liat w ar. Hulyoke, M-
Paul'soni- ",outh for l.i jH-rt to obtain horses for furth,r ,-hance by leaping from the she
Guidei and!',e .r"1'"' "",e fr''": 'A?U,. i'f roof to the ground 20 feet below wit
ai!1 '"'"'"' - "T'r l,T r-""K"- the youngster in his arms. Mr. and Mrs.
man .e.v .......,.. r...,a, Kdward T. Dcrose, lost most of the.r
The fiS men rented sacd, in their opin- h011cP,,l B..
Former Goddard Star Flaying Well for
Connie Mark.
That Iwtn Witt, the former Godd;ird
tie and Edward Freeman, all of Doo'la athlete, is eected to "make good" wilh beeide the remains of bis first wife in the
were the autonibilists who told of the Connie Marks Philadelphia Athletics is (atholic cemetery. It M requested that
alleped killing. ! indicated bv the youngster's work wit flowers be omitted.
.1.- ..;.! 4 I..-. . in..!.. 1. .!...:. ...'... ..;.,., ;n.. I
1 lie TlWmtW i INr t-i i n , i,f un.v iiiibui iiiib i-nin ;n,i, a , i , ,
been killed mere not learned. According on Thursday, the biir leaguers winning
to the story told last nicht by the party, handily. The Philadelphia North Amer-
the four motoriMs had been to El 1'a-o leans basel!! writer says: "The Mack-
ion, constituted mo'i, it not an. tnoj T1), fir. ti(rfr(, fr,n) n ov,,rh,ate I on a pleasure trip. Thrr derided U vis-'men got to the Jacksonville pitcher for
board the tcmer. The EnBlishnia.i flIrtlll ,(1 ,t hough . divovrre,!. ' it Columbus to view the "ruins h ft bv Cic t.-n rots. Witt. Murphv and KichardM
was commanded by (aptain Morehouse. .h4i, r,.arie,i t roof by the t.me hre- ' raidrrs of Villas m.-n instead f r. turn having a pair apiece. Witt play,-d a pret
1 nun arrived from a t tat ion onlv lewiinir here through Iv-ming and Ltird-;ty pame at short."
hundred fi-t aay. !hurg. X. M l th game, lie-ides getting two ,it,
Paiiineau was in the cellar wi'h Mrs.! After leaving Columtwt Wedn-da r ' one of them a two-hanger, Witt st.de
BOTH DEAD AFTER QUARREL.
NORWEGIAN SHIP TORPEDOED.
Foar Survivors Landed and Others
Crew Probably Perished.
of
Sarah Smith, a dmetir. hurried to the afternoon ther were stepped at Herman
.iil.i
Woman with Throat Cat, Her Husband
Mangled on Track.
MiddVtown. X. V.. March 25. Mr. and
Mrs. Harry Xewkirk quarreled at their
home here yesterday but rode together
on the same train lt night to Sumtnt
ville. ti milem north of this city. A
short time after Mrs. Nekirk alighted
be, I room thtriiirh a hallwav so hot that as bv the railroad s-ion foreman thry
the woman's hair waa unced. P.eturnit.r sai.L who arnl them that something
Ivndon. Mart-h 2-. The Norwegian thrj- fonnd thrir empe by tne stairs cut a rori? t the ;.!on ranch a few
learner I'.laklakken a torpe.Wd in ff by fame and had t- resort to H miles farther on. He said be bad len
the Nortii sea a week apo hile on a 'window Mrs. Tnttl.'s hair was al-o watching throiisH a pair ef h tivulars
ia fretting ut do" and had mounted hand f or tth. Witt
BKre Biea, 1 uppcsetil j Mrs.;,- toJ ti, c Tuesday.
two h e and tgtire.1 in to d
plays with I-ajoie and Morrigan. The from the train hr bly nas found besido
rile up i aon-mpani.l by a irHl I ke- the roadway with her throat crt. Ne
ne of Witt in his haw-hall tops. lUrre kirk" Hiv as found a half mile awar.
stnt, 1
bome ia myate frora England to Norway, ac- sl.-htly singed
cot d. 115 to a Cepe&har d.itc If the etair.
friend of Witt expert he ill pet a plar He rvi.hn'.ly had thronn himself on I he
th the
revuiara l'.n thv return ri!ria l track in front of an approarhm
nly went to ,Uik-onule train. The Neakirk were mamed oa'
j-r ag-v.
