V"
VOL LVIII. NO. 1C6
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, . CONN.,. WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 1916
12 PAGES 84 COLUMNS
PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double"That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation -is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population.
----., ,
BEG
AN
fOccupiedPortion-ofrTheirPositionsButAVere-Driven
. ' Out by Counter AttacksV : ;
ART1LLERYREMAINS ACTlVEvNORTH OF VERDUN
GeimanAircraft Have Attacked Russian Poshionsin the Gulf
of Riga and Russian Air Squadron Bombarded the Ger
' man Naval Base at Winclau,1 Courland-uscbvltes Are
Keeping Up Their Pursuit of the Turks m the Diabekr
' Region of Asia Minor -Three Steamers, One a Neutral,
Have Been Sunk.
A German attack against the Bel
gians to the north of Dlxmude Is the
only Infantry engagement reported at
any point along: the western front. Ar
tillery bombardments, especially severe
to the northeast of Verdun, have been
the sole method of warfare on other
sectors. North of Dlxmude the Ger
mans, following a violent preparatory
bombardment, charged and occupied
portions of - three Belgian ; advance
posts, but the Belgians In a, counter
attack Immediately drove the Invaders
out -
A German attack to assume to of
fensive against the Russians at Rag
gasem, rear Riga, was put down, but
the Teutons continue their heavy ar
tillery fire against the Ikskull bridge
head and In the Lake Narocz and Lake
Vischenvskoye regions. , . .
German aircraft have bombarded
several Russian positions In the Gulf
of Riga, an da Russian air squadron
has delivered an attack against the
German naval base at Windau, Cour
land. ,
MORE THAN $1,200,000 '
L. PAID BY M.' E. CHURCHES
t Durtng 1915 to Superannuated, and
! Retired Ministers. -
! 1 . -
Saratoga Springs, N. T., May S.
' More than $1,200,000 was paid by the
I Methodist Episcopal churches ' during
1916 toward the support or superan
nuated and retired ministers -and the
widows of ministers. This was shown
in the report presented by , the' board
of conference claimants to tho Gen
eral Conference of the Methodist
.'The amount - required annually to
met th Ural claims for the entire
church la about $1,800,000, the report
said. "In 1S90 Methodism was paying
SSOO.000' of thene claims. leaMng :a
shortage of $1,200,000 for which no
provision was made, but In IBIS the
church paid . LSasS and today Is
facing the Joyful problem of providing
an additional annual incomo or .-
000 so. that Methodism may be "clear
on the books."
The presentation of the Episcopal
address was the fenture of the aosalon
today. Interests of the delegates cen
tered In the endorsement by the board
of bishops of the proposal to unite
all branches of 'Methodism, such sa
the Methodist episcopal church, South,
which seceded from the parent body 70
years ago, ' the Methodist Protestant
church - and the African -Methodist
church.
PREMIER. ASQUITH FORECASTS -COMPULSORY
MILITARY SERVICE
House of Commons Notified of Govern-t-
ment'a Intention. v
' TJondon. " May I. Premier Asqulth
foreshadowed in the house of com
mons today the Intention of the gov
ernment to Introduce tomorrow a bill
providing for Immediate general com
pulsion for men of military aao. - -
I ' The premier reviewed the recent
J controversy over the question of re'
' cruitlng and gave some figures show
(In what the British - empire has done
since the outbreak of the war. He
said the army, which at the beginning
i of the war consisted of 26 "divisions,
I now amounted to 83, including the
; naval division and the contributions of
i the' dominions, but excluding India. To
1 obtain 5,000,000 men for tae army ana
1 navy, which had been done, involved
; prodigious effort. Recruiting was still
, toeing maintained, with some occasional
; lapses-
! 'There were two limiting conditions,
the premier continued. In the matter
of recruiting which applied- to England,
1 but not to tho other, belligerents,
namely, maintenance of 'supremacy on
the seas, both by means of the navy
' and of the mercantile marine, and
: financing of the nation's allies.
1 TWO BELGIUM RELIEF
STEAMERS HAVE BEEN SUNK,
Both
Wore Under Charter by ' the
t American Commission. .
Ixndon, May 2, 2.01 p. m. Two ves
sels under charter by the American
, commission for the relief of : Belgium
the Swedish steamBhip Friedland and
. the British steamer Hendon Hall, have
. been sunk within two days. ' .
iA wireless despatch received today
atf the Northforeland station from the
IDatch steamship Batavia IV announced
that the Friedland was sinking. This
Swedish vessel sailed from .Portland
April .14, bound for Rotterdam, and had
V,oo tons oi wneat on Doara. -
The British steamship Hendon Hall,
which yesterday was reported sunk
while bound from Portland and Louis
burg for Rotterdam, also had :- beqn
chartered by. the Belgian relief com
mission. , ' , , t
i - I
i CONSIGNEES MUST UNLOAD
! ..(. SHIPMENTS MORE PROMPTLY
Before Embargo on New Haven Road
Territory la Relaxed.
New Tork, May 2. Announcement
was made today by the : eastern
It-eight Association- Conference that
' there will be no relaxation of the em
, bargo on the territory served by the
i New Haven railroad until consi-gnees
. unload shipments more promptly.
Vienna renorts that the heavy fight.
lag between the Auetri&ns and Italians
In the Adamelio sector' of the Austro
Italian line Is still going on'and-that
Italian attacks against various -Austrian
positions have been put down
wiH aqvv onjmjLltias.
Thu TtuMrlnna are keening no their
pursuit of the Turks In the Diarbekr
region of Asia Minor. Constantinople
reports the drivings ashore in- the
Black sea by a Turkish submarine of
three Russian steamers and the sink
ing of three food-laden sailing ships.
Three steamers, one of them a neu
tral, (have been sunk, but whether by
mines or torpeaoea nas not own
Another neutral - steamer has been
damaged and Is being towed Into port.
The neutral sunk was the Brazilian
Rio Branco and the one damaged the
Swedish Frledland. The Frledland and
the British steamer - Hendon Hall,
which was sunk, were . bound from
Portland. Me- for Rotterdam with sup
plies for the American commission for
relief m -Belgium. - : ,
DUBLIN IS REVERTING :
- TO NORMAL-. CONDITIONS
Sinn Felnera in Cork City Have Also
Yielded Up Tholp Arm. ,
IjOndon,". Mny'2. 8.S0' p. m.-An offl
cial -despatch' .. from headquarters
reads: . . . ,
"Dublin la Gradually reverting to
normal conditions. The work of dear
ing some amoJl distrlota around Irish
towna la being carried out by an, ever-
contracting cordon.
"Cork All Is quiet in this county,
with the" exception of BjvojTray in the
SFormoy "SSlstrlet. . . Hrre The police In
attempting to arrest two . men . in a
house, met with armed resistance, the
head constable being shot dead. .On
the arnval of relnroi-cemento. the oo
cupanta "of the . house, - two of 'whorn
were wounnea. nurrannerea.
"The ' Sinn Kelners In Cork City.
where there hns been no rising, have
yieioea. upi tnir arms, .
"wexTom The column which went
to Ennlscorthy la carrying out the ar.
rest ' of rebels In the ' County, of . Wex-.
rord. - ane -rest or soutn Ireland la re
ported quiet." ...... :: .. . .
NO REPLY IN 'SUBMARINE ' '
j DEMANDS", FROM GERMANY
Two Weeks Vtava l?aiaod Slnoa United
i . ' States Sent. Note, -
Washington.. .May, S. Two weeks
have paused- since the .United States
despatched ; to. .Germany its note de
manaing ina$ an aoanaonment . . or
present methods: of submarine war-
farq immediately be declared and : ef
rected and tonight - the state depart
mem stiig ? was wftnout any aetinite
Information Indicating that .-the. de
mand would be complied- with. As
th flays, go. by and. no reply, comes
from L'erlin ' and Ambassador Gerard
ponoe no word' regarding the - attl
tilde or the German 'government, an
air of grave concern is,- beginning to
mannent jte:r. m, aammiawation oir
eien. Publicly -ofnelaut continue ' to
preserve en- air or optimism.- Private
lv, no -attempt la made to conceal a
certain to become more pronounced
uniese some dennlte' news i Is forth
coming' overnight.' -v ... , :
REICHSTAG INiDARK'ON i. '
: . j, SUBMARINE' cbNTROVERSY
' ;-(- . -T-. , I. '.')
Foreign Minister tTells 'Committee No
Decision Ha; Been Reached.'
Berlln,' May 2,- :p... m.,' via London.
Horr Von Jagow the foreign minis
ter, at the reopejtfhg or-Jhe sitting-of
the , budget' Oomroittee of ; the -reich-stag
today, said th"e -government had
not yet reached a.'s decision with re
gard to the! situation . that bar aris
en from th American note to fier,
maijy regarding 'Germany's submarine
campaign: ( as soon - as the imperial
chancellor Ureturnea if mm heniriiiart.
ers,HeiTVon fragow added, he would
bivj mo s v-uiiiminee aennite lniorma
tkn. I - .. ..-.'' i , . . ;
' 'The foreign minister said the rov.
ernment, Jin . View.. .of the importance
or. xno Aippncao. question, would nave
oeen giaa to majie.i a. statement-today
regardiagJ the statvis . Of ,the : problem
but. t hat . .-for' the ; .reason stated this
was iraiJOBiuie., . i 4 .y v .-j.. -
FOUND WITH THROAT CUT ' '
,l ... LYING' ON; BLAZING BED
- f ;!' -r I . . ' ;i
Woman's Plight Discovered, by. Neigh
2; .bora Two niidren Succumbed,.
Penns Grove, N. J May 2. "Mrs. C,
Sinklovitch, ,85, years old, -wa$ found
lying with) her throat cut 'ori 'a blad
ing bed bside the bodies of- her three
children at her home here' today. Two
of the children, Stephen,' 6 years old,
and Frank,, 8, were dead when neigh
bors discovered the tragedy Elizabeth
Bli months old, ',- died shortly ' after
wards' and the mother la in a hospital
Ins Wilmington, where Is is declared
she will die. The woman's husband
worker In the powder plants here,
disappeared about three weeks ago and
neighbors say she had been acting
queeriy ever since. . .
Cabled Paragraphs
razilian and British Steamers Sunk.
London. Mav 2. 2.25 p. m. "The
Brazilian steamship Rio Branco has
been sunk. The British steamship
City of Rochester also has "beensunk.
One fireman was lost, xne remamuei-
of the crew was saved. , ,
PROPOSED PERMANENT WORLD
COURT OUTLINED BY TAFT
To Settle Difficulties as They Arise
Among Nations.
(New Tork, May 2. rThe world court
which the world court congress, m
session here, would create was out
lined today , in an address by William
Howard - Taft, honorary president of
the congress. . The aim of this pro
posed permanent world tnounai, jur.
Taft exDlalned. -would be to settle dif
ferences . such as are settled today-by
domestic court . on principles of law
and equity and as they arise between
nations.
Mr. Taft emphasized ; a distinction
between arbitrations and ; the sug
gested world court. -
"The general -rule in arbitrations is
that the decision is a compromise it
is not clear-oat judgment on questions
of- law and equity," the former presi
dent exolained. "Parties are not given
their rights or subjected to their obli
gations as fully, and completely as they
ought to be and as. tney are in a ao
mestic court of law.
There Is not- any reason why wren
respect to questions of a legal nature
th tribunal between nations -should
not Dursue -the - rules of law ana
equity with the same degree of fidelity
as In the domestic courts.
TVhere the -dssues are political,
where thev are not those that can be
solved by law,: there, or course, a ne
gotiation and compromise are aippru-
twiate. When, however, a nation has
a good legal claim, a good cause, on
the rules or law. It is quite nKeiy
decline arbitration because arbitration
liklev to be a compromise ana a
eirttiner down of Its Just remedy. -
'Arbitrations are generally maae up
of temporary arbitrators. The persons
are selected for the . particular case,
and this feature lends support to the
diplomatic method of reaching a com
promise conclusion. , ,
S. MARINES SENT
TO' SANTO DOMINGO
To Put 8top to Activities of Fac-
-. - - --'- tional Leaders.
Washington. " May 2. Rear Admiral
Canerto has gone to Santo Domingo
with the cruiser Prairie and a strong
force of marines to put a stop to the
activities of factional leaders t oover
throw the Jlmihes government. He
has orders to Inform the men . Denina
the impeachment " proceedings against
President Jimlnes .that the United
States will not tolerate their Intrigues.
Though framed to preserve tne ap
nsfrrsjnce of leealltv- .the movement to
Impeach the Dominican president has
boon diagnosed oy ' tne state aeparx
Tnsnf. as nothing fmore than . a trans
parent device tooust the government
In the lnterest of- leaders seeking per
sonal advantage., Therefore, , as. the
Tlnlted. States by-'treaty Is responsi-
hle-ifofi-the, maintenance, of Jhl
lftr consututeff ;aiiiriucB,- tiia
Amrtra4nt, already- has .let - it -
known through 'Its agents In 1. Santo
Domingo that it: will not countenance
such an attempt to dislodge Jimines.
TO STOP ALL SHIPMENT OF
- WAR MUNITION 8' TO MEXICO.
War' Department Senda Inatruetiona to
;. Commander. Fort Mmtosn.
Laredo. Tex.. ZIy Sh ThS war- de
partment- has Inntraetod ."tli com
tumiiIm .t Vnrt Mcintosh here to stop
all shipment of war munitions to Met-
- - Jill . - M wf A A
lOO. -A Bait million rtmnuK vi. mo
earlrlagea held oy customs mspeciors
Willi be taken ln'charge by, thd lcal
military.'- c' . Vy"-"
The order Is, taken: hereo to mean
the prohibition of tho exportation of
munitions . to ,, all .parties . In Mexico.
Local customs ofllcers have been hold
In' gfor some time shipments of muni
tions when it was believed they were
intended ror; enemies 01 tne- ae racxo
government, ;. - .
ANOTHER QUAINT MODEL'
DIRECT FROM LONDON
This street costume. 19 of ecru broad
cloth., cut with a round yoke, a braided
low belt and front drape falling from
two handsome buttons. The high flar
ed collar' is apparently held up by t
black velvet ribbon- rosette in front. A
tan turban with it military trimmin
1 also interesting, as is the Russian
r ' : i
; - li
cross pendant.
Two Men Killed
In Pittsburgh Riot
MOB OFf FOREIGNERS-ATTACKED'
, CARNEGIE STEEL PLANT:
A DAY - OF DISORDER
Pitched Batle- Lasted an Hour, During
Which About 400 Shots Were Fired
Women Joined Strikers1 In Mad Fight
to Gain Entrance to' the Works.- -
Pittsburgh. Pa..' Mav ; s.Tw ; men
are . known, to have been, killed. four
probably injured , an a. score , of oth
ers seriously hurt this afternoon, when
a mob said by the- authorities to have
oeen composed principally of foreign
ers, attacked : the . Edgar. ; Thompson
Works of the Carnegio Steel
In Braddock. .' A pitched-battle . last
ing an hour during 4 which 400 -shots
were fired, followed, but ' the rioters
were finally forced - to retreat ' in the
face of a deadly fire from -the - riot
guns and revolvers of deputy: sheriffs
and plant guards. The situation .is
quiet tonight but 2.000 citizens of the
Dorougn nave been .sworn In as-dep
uties and are patrolling the streets.
uistnct Attorney K.vH. Jackson an
nounced that .he would take steps, at
nw tor tne deportation or all for
eigners connected with the trouble.
Climax of Day of Disorder. -
The , riot was the . climax of . a day
of disorder in the boroughs of Brad-dock-
and: Rankin during -which- mobs
stormed: the factories of four big steel
companies,, drove -the workmen out
and then - partly wrecked the interior
or ine plants.
Many of -those injured in the fight
ing at - the Edgar - Thomas Works
were spirited away : by ' the rioters and
ror nours arter quiet had ibeen re
stored, injured continued to be
DTOugnt to hospitals -for treatment.
hnipers hidden in doorways and
windows , near . the Thirteenth street
entrance tried to pick off deputies
who were fighting; to- hold back the
mob and two deputies were said to
have been hit.' - Women -also joined
in tne maa ngnt-to gain ' entry to the
worKs ana two 01 mese were wound
ed. The two men killed . were for
eigners. .
Poured Shot After Shot Into the Mob
The mob first attacked the-office of
w. j. uixon, -superintendent of trans
portation at the Edgar Thomas. Works
ana with-clubs and stones. wrecked it.
Deputies, rushing, to r prevent; the de
struction or tne omce; were 1 com
penea to use It -.as a barricade ; and
irom Denina the wreckage they Ipour
ed shot after shot into the mob which
withdrew. , After stoning ttie plant
for 45 minutes .another charge was
maae ana in: a hand-to-hand Strug
gie, r tne deputies and" guards were
torced pack inside the plant.
lores E&fUe. ;: v
Demrtles '. who : had '- been : . naM
duty -at the Westinghouse ' plants In
Wilmerdlng and! East Pittsburgh,
were dispatched to the scene lbut were
forced, to- flght, their way to the sides
of the other, deputies" who were grad
ually being forced further back' into
the plant. After a fierce battle the
moh. was forced back out of the eatea
and finally compelled tp run for. shelt
er .rmiore tne notnre.or the -deputies.
Reporte received . here -tonight said
that two companies of state, constabu
lary which have been on !. strike duty
at jrviiKesDarre, ,i-a., nave .Deen order
ed to tiraddock and will arrive tomor
row morning. ;: '
Disorder Started Early.
Tho disorder started I early in the
morning When a procession 4 was or
ganised by Westinghouse Electric, and
Manufacturing Company strikers 'at
reant Pittsburgh to continue their ef
forts to- bring, out the. workmen 'in
the other factories of -the Turtle Creeir
and Monongahela valleys in , a ' similar
attempt yesterday and . the- marchers
were, angry when they -set out. i-ick
ets, who had been stationed at a nnm,
ber of Brad dock factories : had been
worsted in encounters ' with workmen
as the men were going to work and
the plants of the .American Steel and
Wire company, a United tSates Steel
corporation, subsidy and a: numoer ot
other plants , had been shut down as
a . protection to the employes, tne
management. announced- Other
plants continued to operate, however.
and when ,the news 1 was brought - to
tne marcmng throng that the. fac
tones would' have none of ;them, the
route was changed an dtllejt stormed
the .buildings; of the Sterling - , Steel
Foundry -company, whose' employes
nave oeen worKing eignt nours a day
fpr some time. - The workmen were
anven out ana much, damage was
done. This success, was followed by
attacks on other i factor ies . In the
neighborhood. ; the marchers continu
lng their- work of destruction' at ev
ery place where the men refused: to
join them. , i
By noonithe' crowd .had,-swelled "to
a mob of 2.000 persons, 'many ; of
whom were visibly . Intoxicated. -I .' '
Meeting no resistance they march
ed to Hawkins Station,' where they at
tacked the plant of the 1 Nicholson
Chaid, company, employing 250 men. .
Frenzied :Mob Swept Through Plant.
The frenzied mob swept through the
plant, drlvingt men from . their ma
chines and knocking down: all who
stood in their' way. - Twenty or more
workmen were injured "' before they
were finally ' drivfen "out.",- The mob
then turned Its attention to' "destroy
ing property. - ; t,, - n 1. ..
' From the chain wot-ks ,the mob
moved ion the. WissvaleLfacjtory of the
Pittsburgh Lamp, - Brasfe and Glass
company, nearby, where"350f men, wo
men and boys were' at, work Every
thing possible was broken i after tfie
workers had ,been chased away.
r: Shouting andiHooting. : I
i ' Shouting and hooting,- 'the rioters
next appeared- at - the' ; Thirteenth
Street entrance to the Edgar i Thom
son Works.r ;i '. 'I '
For a time the strikers icon tented
themselves with a: demonstration in
which they called upon' iwof kmen in
side the wall to come' out and join
them. V , ' ' j-'-:- - ?
This continued for .perhaps half and
hour when a man rushed out f tram
the mob pointing his revolver jtoward
tho entrance, fired .as he ran. I There
was ' no response, j A few minutes
later the firing from themobi became
almost general. - i
, After the street in front, of , the. en
trance was cleir, members 'of the mob
re-assembled in streets and - alleys,
while leaders harangued them In for-
V. Seeks Issue
$30,000,000 Bond
TO -COMPLETE 7 LINE FROM PAV-
MER TO PROVIDENCE.
2 : PETITIONS ARE - FILED
Permission
for Acquisition-, of vthe
New England Railway
Southern
Corporation la Sought In" Petition
Filed With Massachusetts Senate.
Boston, May-2. Permission for, the
acquisition by the Central Vermont
Railway company of the Southern New
n,ngiana - jtaiiway corporation was
Bought 'Of the legislature today in a
petition meet with the senate" bv E. C,
Smith. president of the former road
In another petition filed by Mr. Smith
ine .iegisiat!ure is asked to permit the
central Vermont to transfer by mort
gage Its Interests as lessee In the
franchise and other property of the
itvew Xionaon .Northern Railroad com.
pany. ,
To Improve Property Generally.
The petitions announce a m-ODOsal to
place both the Southern New England
ana tne JNew London- Northern rail
roads under- mortgage to secure bonds
of , $30,000,000 which the Central Ver
mont seeks to issue to corn-Diet the
Southern New England line from
Palmer, Mass., to . Providence, R. I.,
and to Improve Its property generally,
MOVEMENT. TO PREVENT
MERGER OF STEEL INTERESTS
Restraining Order Issued in TJ. S. Dis
trict Court of Trenton.
Trenton, N. J.. May 2. Judge Rell-
stab in the United States district
court today made an order returnable
at Newark May 8 for the Pennsvl
vania- Steel company of New Jersey
ana. ethers to show cause why they
sr.onia not be restrained from carry
Ing out their plan of going into
liquidation and disposing of their as
sets and holdings to the Bethlehem
Steel company. The order was
granted on application of JoseDh H.
Brandt, of Philadelphia, holder of 139
shares of preferred stock of the Penn
sylvania Steel Company of New Jer
sey. .
The Pennsylvania Steel comnany of
iwcivjersey la a holding company and
ircluoed in-its . holdings are 10,000
shares "or the Maryland Steel com
pany; 49,879 shares, which is practi
cally all of the common stock, of the
Pennsylvania Steel Company of Penn
sylvanla: 14,909 shares of the prefer
red , stock of th? .Pennsylvania Steel
Company of Pennsylvania, . being all
of the preferred stock but. 18 shares
and also the stock of a number of
other companies. . . -
HOLIDAY SPIRIT IN
.;,' DUBLIN
YESTERDAY
People Walked - About Freely and
Viewed Ruins in Sackville Street,
Dublin, Monday, Mav 1. Noon, via
London, : May 2, 12.S0 p. m. There
was almost a holiday spirit in the
Irish 1 capital today.- All through the
center o fthe city, which for a week
was - the scene- of ', fighting, people
walked freely about and looking at
the ruins in Sackville street. Hun
dreds of persons gathered at the post
office, which was almost destroyed by
fire;- irr search of souvenirs. Many' of
them found rifles, bayonets and oth
er -. trophies in - the still smouldering
ruins before the military decided 'to
clear away the crowd owing to the
danger of falling walls.
: Fouads of cavalry patrolled the
streets, 'keeping the crowds on the
move, but it was not necessary to use
force. ..
'Troops still occupied strategic po
sitions at the end of the streets and
passes were still necessary before one
could go into the districts infested
with sn'pers, who evidently had not
learned, cf the collapse of the rebel
lion . or were determined to use up
their ammunition before surrendering
or being killed.
AMERICAN TROOPS HELD BACK
, DE FACTO MEXICAN CAVALRY
Strategic Formation Prevented Mexi
' J cans Entering Chihuahua.
Douglas, Ariz., May 2. An attempt
by a body of de facto Mexican cav
alry, the advance guard of General
Arnulfo - Gomez's force, to enter Chi
huahua through Pulpito Pass, was
blocked today by American troops, ac
cording -to a . reliable report received
here from American sources.
; ; .The Mexicans, ' according .to the re
port, were tinder command of Colonel
Jesus Maria Agulerro and had pene
trated 18 miles into the pass before
their movement was discovered by a
United States military v aeroplane
which reported their presence to the
American commander. " .
. The American troops are - said to
have been drawn up in strategic for
mation to hold the pass and Colonel
Aguierre did not attempt to press for
ward, but went. Into camp and dis
patched messengers to the rear, pre
sumably to communicate with General
Gomez. .Colonel Aguierre's advance
into . Chihuahua is believed here to
have been the forerunner of a general
movement. , . . .-
HOSTILE Al RSH1PS ATTACK
NORTHEAST COAST SCOTLAND
No Details Available Regarding Cas-
' ualtiea or Damage. '
I London, ' May 3, M.54 a. m. iFlve
hostile airships attacked the northeast
coast of England and the southeast
coast of . Scotland last night.
, s The : official announcement on the
raid says that the movements- of the
raiders' appeared, uncertain,-adding: "A
few bombs were dropped in .Yorkshire,
hut there are no details yet regarding
the casualties or damage."
elgn tongues. The gards strengthen
ened their lines and prepared to es
cort such of the 6,000 or 7,000 work
men in the mill as -desired to go home
at the end of the day's work, but the
mob . did not disturb them as they
passed out, nor did it interfere with
the night force which appeared for
work. - '
Condensed Telegrams
National bank clrcuation for Aoril
May 22.
The Supreme Court will recess from
decreased $1,681,785.
Two thousand grain elevator em
ployee at Winnipeg -went on strike.
The supreme oourt opened Its May
term in Hartford. The docket is light.
The freighter Yosemite went aground
off Russell's Island in the St. Clair
river..
Seedina is exoected to be delayed by
the snowfall over North Dakota and
Minnesota.
Andrew J. Graham, well known Chi'
cago West Side broker. . died at his
home in Chicago.
Shipments of f reah and eured meat
from Chicago last week amounted to
46,832,000 pounds. ; .
Franklin Worcester, republican can
didate forgovernor In 1912, died at his
home at Hollis, N. i.
Articles of incorporation were filed
at Dover, Del., by the Emerson Motors
Co.. capital $10,000,000.
The fourth annual convention of the
Texas Women Bankers Association
will be held in Houston today.
In eonseauence of the adoption of
the daylight saving, all clocks In Hoi
land were set forward one hour.
Villistas are reported to have burn
ed the American Mormon colony at
Chuichupa, near Madera, Mexico.
Trollev car service in Washington,
Tn va susoenaea wnen -me muiui -
men and conductors went on strike.
Bringing 1,038 passengers, the French
ofoompr Pntna arrived at rvew
from Naples and Palerma and Oran.
Th New York National 'Guard
opened a thirty-day campaign to re
cruit the guara to its iuu war nu
Because his wife refused to buy him
a new shirt, Carl Gotonsira, agea ii,
of Philliosburg. N. J., shot and killed
himself.
There were 5,300,000 subscribers to
the last German war loan, compared
with 1,300,000 subscribers to the first
war loan. . - ,
ri tun out of 700 normally in
commission were opratdd In New Tork
harbor because of the strike of marine
engineers. ,
Admiral Dewey, hero of the Battle of
Manila Bay, observed-the anniversary
of the battle at his desk at the Navy
Department. ;
The Missouri Grain, Dealers' Asso
ciation - estimates" the winter wheat
crop at about B0 per cent, of the av
erage for Missouri.
A robber- entered the City Bank at
St. Paul, forced the cashier, two mes
sengers and a customer ino the vault,
and escaped, -wf th3,000. - -
Frank Roach sheriff of Cheyenne,
Wyo., and Nels Nelson, a rancher, were
shot and kelled while pursuing horse
thieves near Box Elder, Col.
William G. McAdoo, Secretary of the
Treasurv, arrived at Havana on the U.
S S. Tennessee. - He was greeted by
members of the Cuban Cabinet.
The government's. "safety first" spe
cial train left Washington for Phila
delphia, the first- stop on an education
will take ., it through all
parts of the country.'
; One hundred girls in the stripping
department of the Crown Corset Co., of
Bridgeport, declared a strike because
one other, the daughter of a policeman,
would not join the union.
Five thousand telegraphera have
notified the New . York Central and
Nickel Plate railroads that unless a 15
per cent wage increase is granted by
Thursday they will strike.
Chas. Sprague, Jr., was electrocuted
in the Auburn, N. T., State Prison.
This is the last electrocution to be
held at Auburn, all -executions taking
place at Sing Sing herafter.
: Passport, champion Jersey milker of
.1 tt)di states' owned by former
Congressman Joseph C. Sibley, died at
Franklin, Pa. Her record waa 19,
649.8 pounds of milk a. year.
The trolleymen's union submitted
to the Springfield Street Railway
company a schedule calling for a max
imum daily wage of $3.25, to replace
the present rate of $2.95.
Archie' Roosevelt, a senior at" Har
vard will go to work as a wool sorter
for the Bilgelow Carpet Co., at Clinton,
Mass., this summer , to irara u u
inesss. He will be paid $6 a week.
Thinking fellow employes were play
ing a joke on him. George. B. Siler. 50,
of Miamisburg, Ohio,' refused to leave
the building -when they warned mm
that It was on fire. He was burned to
death. t .
The Senate adopted a resolution au
thorizing the Secretary of the Interior
to acquire the .patent-rights for the
United States Government of the Rit
man process for the manufacture of
gasoline.. r ' ;
Plunging into the torrent of Niagara
River 20 feet abovekthe cataract, two
bystanders prevented . Florence O'Neill,
21 a schoolgirl of Tonawanda, N. T.,
from commiting suicide by going over
the falls .. . -. . .
, Street cleaning and other municipal
work in Provitli nco was at a stand
still yesterday as a result of a trik ot
city laborers who seek to have a wage
Increase of two and a half -cents an
hour become effective Immediately.
.Two batteries of field artillery, en
route from Fort .Myer to the summer
instruction camt at Tobyhanna, Pa..
were reviewed from the Capitol steps
ry tne nouse ana senaw uumtrreOT vii
the army diu. 1 . . . i
-'- Public bequests - aggregating more
than $30,000,1 Including $10,000 to
Brown University,' were provided for in
the will of Colonel Robert H. I. God-
dard which was filed at Warwick, R.
Motormen and conductors ef the
Pittsburgh Railways company to the
number of 8,200 have hatifled a wage
agreement and returned to work, after
having been out since last sunaay at
midnight. The first cars were cheered
as they passed through the streets.
Atrocious Grime
Of Farm Hand
TOWN-OF THOMPSON - SHOCKED
BY DOUBLE MURDER.
DELIBERATELY PLANNED
Burt Petti, and His Daughter Sybil
8hot and Killed by John Elliott
Girl Had Repulsed Murderer'o Atton.
tlona PoMea Searohtng for Dastard,
Thompson. Mnv 1 jsti.i mi..
u"etin- A double murder in which
Burt Pettis and daughter Sybil, a school
teacher at Grosvenordale, were done
uui cany xuesaay morning at
their pretty countnr hstma in v. i
fi d'strlct ,n the southern section o .
" " - inompson, aDout four
miles east of this city, shocked this
section of the state as it has not much
shocked for a long time and et state
police, deputy sheriffs, constables and
a, posse that numbered scores of heav
ily armed men scouring the Connecticut-Rhode
Island border section for
the murderer, John Elliott, a laborer
and farm hand, who has been employ
ed recently at the Ann Cunningham
place, at West Thompson crossing.
Police Dogs on the Trail.
Elliott is recognized as an extreme
ly dangerous character, almost cer
tain to kill his pursuers on sight and
a fiend in human form who will not
hesitate to use his automatic revol
vers and more than 100 rounds of
ammunition in fighting his way out
. (Continued on Page Ten)
CHANGES IN REGULATIONS FOR
IMPORTATION OF CATTLE
Signed
by Governor Holcomb
Now in Force.
and
Hartford, Conn., May 2. Governor
Holcomb and Cattle Commissioner
Phelps had a conference today on the
proposed changes in the regulations
formulated by the commissioner gov
erning the importation of animals iato
this state. The governor afterwards
signed the amended regulations and
they are now in force.
The most important change Is con
tained in Section 5, which states that
no permit will be granted for the im
portation into this state of swine in
tended for feeding or breeding nur.
poses that have been subjected to the
simultaneous treatment for hog chol
era until after the expiration of at least
30 days from the date of the treat
ment. EXPLOSION IN OILCLOTH
PLANT AT YARDVILLE, PA.
Three Workmen Were Killed, Four
p ProBaBTy Fatally Hurt.
Trenton, N. J.. May 2. Three work
men were killed; four -probably fatally
wounded and three others slightly
hurt , late today by an explosion that
demolished a big department of the
Chandler Oil Cloth Company's plant
at Yardville, near this city. Several
adaining stjructures were wrecked and
nearby stores , and - dwelling houses
were badly damaged by the force of
the blast. ' . , ? ' -:
Two building at the. oil cloth plant
were destroyed, and 'the other four
were so badly damaged that operations
will have to be suspended until - re
pairs are made. The explosion Is be
lieved to hav been caused by a spark
from the machinery; igniting' a large
quantity of gasoline and. other cils.
Twenty-five employes were, at the
plant when the -accident occurred."
OIL-BURNING. DREADNOUGHT
IS PLACED IN COMMISSION.
- i . ;
Oklahoma, Commanded byjCapt.' Roger
Wells, Has Complement '-fe'jBOO Men.
-.' -f 3? .
Philadelphia, May 2.2 oe Oklahoma,
the latest oil-burnin? .? : superd read
nought added to the United States
n-avy, built at an appf f jrimate cost of
i.uvu.uw, was piace a .commission at
the Philadelphia navyf&rd today. The
ship is commanded by Ca-pt. Roger .
Wells and her complement consists of
so officers and- 800 -men.
The vessel is capable of making 20
1-2 knots an hour with" her 25,000 horse
power engines. -
Her main . armament' consists of ten
14-inch breech-loading", guns in four
turrets. . . .
TROLLEY: CAR, DERAILED;
- SPIKES PULLED'FROM rtAIL.
Apparently an Attempt to Wreck
, . Shore Line Car at Foxon.
Guilford. Conn May 2v A New Ha.
ven-"bound trolley, car . on the, Shore
Line electric railway was derailed near
Foxon last night, because someone had
pulled all the spikes from a rail, it was
learaea . tonight.1 a The - car was going
slowly at the-time and, no one was
hurt- An investigation today disclosed
that apparently there was a deliberata
attempt to wreck the car.. The. author
ities are conducting, an investigation,
but so far no definite clues have been
obtained. . . .
IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS
AGAINST DOMINICAN '. PRESIDENT
Violation of Constitution on Drafting
.. .. of the Budget le -Alleged. ,
' 'San" Domingo - Dominican" Ropubllo,
May 2. The Dominican senate today
voted to impeach General . Jiminez,
president of the . republic.' A motion
to impeach was passed by the cham
ber of deputies yesterday. It being al
leged that the chief executive had vio
lated the constitution " in - connection
with -the drafting' of -the budget.
According to 'law, the trial, will take
place . within . .forty-eight . hours, the
verdict being rendered by- the senate.
Admiral Caperton ( Supports ( President
-'!..; "Haiti. ' '- v
Port au Prince, Haiti, May, 2. Rear
Admiral Caperton, ;who Is commanding
t,he American forces in Haiti,-has (tak
en a definite stand in support of Presi
dent Dartlguenave in his controversy
with parliament. ' Inasmuch as an
agreement between the president and
parliament did not seem to be In sight,
following the declination of the legiula
tive bodies to accept the president's
dissolution decree, the rear admiral
has decided to supporr the nresidant. .
1
