mwBwOT1 mnpm w
FINANCIAL EDITION
Cuemng
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA4
fi.H.-NOMO
PHILADELPHIA, WISDTESDAY, MAY 0, 1016.
CoimaiiT, 1010, bt Tilt rcnuo Lkdozr Coutani.
PRICE ONE CENT
"""
" ' '" IIIIBMII Q I m.MM.11 B I , llll I ! Bill I P.I I M . MB WMMMM
iREE IRISH
CHIEFS SHOT;
I BIBRELL OUT
. -
fpresi'dent and Military
tedder ol snort-uivea
Republic Executed
fBlRRELL RESIGNS OFFICE
pkandreds of Prisoners Are
fl Taken to England
&i and Dublin
if
i'- LONDON, May 3. I'clcr Pcarcc,
- l.Urtil of the seven days' Irish Kc
.w. .. 4 r'rtMtinlK. rntnmnmlpp nf
BttbllC, James v-ui .. j, --
the army of thcSrrish Republic, and a
third man, whosnamc was not Riven,
wire found guilty by court-martial
and ihot to death this morning.
Their executions were announced in
lheIIouse of Commons this afternoon
by Premier Asquith.
The three Irish chjefs were shot by
k firing squad at Dublin. Dispatches
from the Irish capital state that the
I British military authorities arc exor-
rising the most drastic measures in
,. dealing' with the insurrectionists.
About 300 more prisoners, including
'usual leaders, were brought to Eng-
li ::. i.4...
BELFAST, May 3. More than GOO
prisoners have arrived here from
Dublin on an armed train.
DUBLIN, May 3. Court-martial
'trials of those who took part in the
Sinn Fein uprising are under way, it
Vis officially announced today.
Charges against the prisoners are
kroujht under the "defense of the
rl iealm" act. Only the least important
lif'the prisoners arc being tried in
Dublin. The important trials will be
hejd in England. A number of women
are among the prisoners still held in
Wblin.
The announcement was made by the
Prime .Minister a moment nfter an
nouncement was, mach; that Chief Sec
retary for Ireland Augustine Birrcll,
, ftef(T(arfrely responsible for the Irish
-dutb'reaks.'had resigned from the Cab-
tott;
, Premier Asquith stated that ail
rthree of the rebel leaders executed
i tluVmbrnim? had signed the proclama
Ption'of a hew Irish republic issued by
tlherdicjs at the beginning of the Dub
Min outbreak. This statement elimi
nated the possibility that Sir Roger
Casement, awaiting trial in the Tower
f nf London for the part he played in
jfUhe revolution was one of those shot.
AUGUSTINE BIRRELL QUITS
OFFICE AS CHIEF SECRETARY
FOR IRELAND; DUBLIN IN RUINS
5 . tnvnnv Mnv n
e 'Augustine Birrcll, Chief Secretary for
Ireland, lias resigned from the British
l laDinet as the result of the Irish revo
lution. The announcement of his resigna
tion was made upon his return from
jUublln today.
:!$ Blrrell, who first served In the British
$ awnet as president of the Board of
gEdncatlon, was appointed Chief Secretary
?.H th Lord Lieutenant of Ireland In
. January. 1007 He held his post through
, trw Cabinet crisis last Slay that resulted
-j. In the formation of a coalition ministry.
Blrrell was a Liberal In politics. Be
fore his appointment to the Cabinet, he
11 written a number of books and had
wittd an edition of Boswell's Life of
Johnson,
f -A total of 179 buildings In Dublin was
;Htroved or damaged during tho seven
, Myr uprising, the chief of the Dublin
8rt, department cabled today. He estl-
1 5? tba ftro loss in the Sackvllle street
ouwlct alone at J8.000.000.
'Sir Itoser Casement, the Irish knight.
ww was captured while trying to land
arma and ammunition upon the coast of
2 from a German ship, lias ex.
jt the wtsh that he be tried first "In
oraer to set an example of fortitude and
carnage,"
J .HJUe'y that the "privates" in the
.,Vm.?'1 ba sentenced to Imprisonment
ffl termination of the war. or for a
wrgff-tierjoa at the discretion of the Gov
eminent
lmportan documentary evidence has
, Continued oa Tage Six, Column Fhe
kl THE WEATHER
'-'v?8 Weatler man is trying to put over
t "". ???terday nriiprt ni m i, ,iM,vt
M2S"u P" .ha ""y"" "A r'eltt. It'll rain J
tu3 i ,"''6y moil, A Jlieuni iu euy
itiS ' " fl3t P'aco" t'rorn the way
itdKS , a.n4 reels rlh' pow. he is going
f-iCsS i"'1 a second time, and ho would
lliwT.i.'WerV8 " This sort of thing Is
h. .! wm qr eoms umpires, who,
in , Bea thy have made a mistake
bF MU10n' try to even un th'nes later
th n.v p. ' " umer eioa tne peneut oi
IrUr r plosa one- But two Vrongs never
ae a right
IMwo wronK predictions neer made
FOR v.n A ST
'for Philnrlrlnh- .! ....;...'!.. TT..
ITh,,iimth Probably showers tonight t
iWt stntle south t0 wt3t winda-
r aeiam see page 15,
ost anu Sovmi
F ,. l---
S&. jnTAi?" T"""! afinuao ljg bar
tir-j-.
f
. "
US VVi
Hr LArminmtt lf.itsl Itamtl.
"Mt t
T8iai,l5lEP ." TEKIUKii poo T
mmt Jt fll fowHl Afa U J,M l
REAL PHOTOGRAPHS OP OLIVER CHECK TO GOV. BRTJMBAJJGH'
i ii,lA.&.UjU
2LSjiZ
'"SV ffc t ?
-
-f ,
PAV TO THE OnOEfT
yO- .
I i
I s
-,-kjrzzCr ljttoy?3,trC, ;:
' ' '
I v
f '"'.' ' ' . " ' . , - if .'
v r "t .. k -. x .i
s? 1
&y
-V - J,
Following Senator George T. Oliver's denial of published charges that the check episode was a "frame
up, no permitted photographs of the celebrated check to be made for the Evening Ledger in Washington
yesterday. The picture of the face of the check shows the bank perforation which did not appenr in
tho reproduction of the check's face as originally published. Senntor Oliver asserts that this perfora
tion did not appear in thev original reproductions because the photographer "touched up" his negative in
order that the check might have a better appearance. Also, these photos reveal on the back of the check,
though faintly, the stamps of tho Girard 'rust Company and the Fourth Street National Bank of Phila
delphia, also a very faint circle above these on which the words Pittsburgh Clearing House can be
distinguished. This latter docs not show in the, reproduction. Senator Oliver contends that these indorse
ments did not show in the first printed copy because they are in purple ink and not susceptible of being
reproduced.
VILLA PURSUIT
WILL CONTINUE;
MEXICO YIELDS
U. S. Forces to Press Ban
dit Chase, but in Re
stricted Zone
WILL ySE RAILWAY LINE
EL PASO, To., May 3. In a per
sonal telegram to Minister of War
Obregon today, General Carranza
stated he had received the report on
the conference with General Scott and
was giving it his "careful considera
tion nnd attention." The First Chief
also expressed himself as well pleased
with the progress made.
EL PASO, Tex , May 3. The Ameri
can troops will remain in Mexico until
Pancho Villa Is captured or killed.
Thla Is the salient point In General
Scott's diplomatic victory oer General
Alvaro Obregon, representing the Car
ranza Government
While no official announcement has
been made that an amicable settlement
was reached. It Is reliably stated by
army officers In touch with the situation
that terms have been reached and that
announcement In withheld pending rati
fication from Washington.
It Is understood that General Obregon
yielded unqualifiedly on his contention
that tho troops bo withdrawn. On the
other hand General Scott compromised
in that he allowed the zono of the expedi
tion to be restricted.
The result of the whole affair Is that
the American troops will stay In Mexico
and see that Villa nnd his bands are
destroyed. It does not matter whether
the Carranzlstas do the work or the
American troops. Pershing Is to stay
"on the Job" and see It well done, The
bdrder Is to be freed of raid menaces.
According to the reported agreement
Colonla Oublan is the limit of the expedi
tion. CARRANZISTAS TO AID.
General. Obregon pledges active co-operation
of the de facto forces. It ts the
opinion here that this co-operation will be
real, for the sooner the work is accom
plished, the sooner will the Americans
withdraw.
A further victory was scored by Gen-
Continued on Tate Six, Column Two I
HEAT CLAIMS FIRST
VICTIM OF SEASON
60-Year-Old Man Fractures
Skull in Fall When
Overconie
The first death of the year from heat
occurred today, when George Heazen, 60
years od. of S030 De Lancey street, died
In the West Philadelphia Homeopathic
Hospital He fractured his skull In a fall
In front of 25S South 60th street, when
oercome by the heat
Heazen, fagged out, was sitting on a
stap when he fell, striking his head on
the pavement He had been subject to
epileptic fits, but friends said the neat of
the last few days had prostrated him.
The warm period was continued today
with a high temperature of 79 degrees at
3 o'clock. That was the maximum yes
terday. The warmest day of the year
89 far was May 1 when the high mark
was 80, degrees. Tfie weather will mod
erate slightly tomorrow, the Weather Bu
reau forecasts, but tne decrease In tem
perate will not be great.
Preacher Sentenced as White Slayer
. ABINGDON. Va. May 3. The Rev. B.
t) Moody. Methodist preacher, of Wash
ington County, Va.. was sentenced to a
year and a day In Atlanta Federal prison
as a white alwer. H was convicted of
i t-Amsnortlnjt a young woman Jrom Vtr-
lSia, i? Tennessee for fmagoxaj yurppsd.
. FIDELITY TlTtB AND. TRUSf-tCOrANY.
'rJk? jtiAL...
v
,iLcCozrxyT-
vi5vh- .i'rf.. v.)-.s
v?.-
a .. v;. :, v. , s T .
v ACi.'-
. . .- - - , v ,..
" '--! .1 . t. ;.
4
- .
a
o . ? .J".,i
lil
ahtW VWHP
GOVERNOR ADMITS
HE'S NOT RUNNING
FOR PRESIDENCY
Sole Purpose, He Asserts,
Is in Interest of
Party "Unity"
PLEA FOR DELEGATES
Brumbaugh Says He Seeks
Complete Reunion of. Party
"By the use of my name in the
preferential primary, my sole pur
pose was to secure the return to
the Republican party of those who
in 1912 found it incumbent upon
them to leave it."
"I and my friends would most
happily and promptly give our sup
port to any candidate whose sup
port would insure a Republican
victory in November."
"We must not allow Pennsylva
nia to throw away this opportunity
to lead in a commanding wny for a
triumphant victory in November."
"We ask your support in select
ing delegates to the convention in
Chicago, who will steadily keep in
mind this fundamental fact, not to
serve the will of any leader, but j
who, free nnd untrammelcd, will ,
use their best endeavor to bring j
aDoui a complete reunion or our
broken forces, the nomination of
an acceptable candidate and the
triumphant election of the Repub
lican ticket next November."
Governor Brumbaugh has admitted that
he Is not running as a bonaflde presidential
aspirant, and asserted that his sole pur
pose Is to obtain the return to the party of
"those who In 1912 found It Incumbent
upon them to leave It." He made thh
declaration in an nddreis In Kastou last
night In his campaign for the control of
the-Pennsylvania national delegates
Reiterating his statement that It was
only In the Interest of "unity" that he en
tered the combat.' the Governor made an
urgent plea for delegates "who will not
sene the will of any leader, but who, un
trammeled and free, by using their best
endeavor, will- bring about a complete re
union of the broken forces, the nomina
tion of an acceptable candidate and tho
Continued on Pare Two, Column One
WIFE RUNS TO GET AID
AS MAN FIGHTS ROBBER
Intended Victim of Park Ruf
fians Grapples With One
as Other Flees
An alleged Park highwayman, who is
accused of attempting to rob Mr, and
Mrs. J. Harris, of 427 Spruce street, was
captured after a struggle and then held
today without ball by Magistrate Steven
son, of the 39th street and Lancaster ave
nue station, for further hearing. His
companion, who escaped, Is being sought
by the police, who are endeavoring to
connect the pair with the many hold-ups
that have terrorized Falrmount Park.
. The hold-up occurred on Flatlron Hill,
near the Falrmount avenue entrance pf the
Park, last night. Mr and Mrs. Harris,
who were walking, wore suddenly con
fronted by two men, who leaped from be
hind bushes and flashed a 'bull's-eye lan
tern In their faces. Harris grappled with
one of the men while his wife ran scream
ing to the bottom of the hill. Park Guard
McBrtde. attracted by the cries, helped to
subdue the man struggling in Harris
grasp and arrested him. The prisoner
Vave hi name as Philip Evangelutla, 10
years old. of 710 Taylor ttreet,
i ' . . - -
i
DOLLARS
f
At. AS fciWw -trtftfj
1 . ,
-V
.J
-NtitAFh. wu,
STRIKE ZONE
IN BRADDOCK
Eighteenth Regiment Pa
trols Streets and More
Troops Arrive Hourly
MOB MARCHES ON ' PLANT
HAKR1SBURG, PA., May 3. Ad
jutant General Stewart announced
this afternoon that all of the National
Guardsmen ordered to Pittsburgh for
strike duty had arrived there. He
added that for the present no other
troops would be ordered to the strike
district. The Tenth Regiment, how
ever, will be held in readiness tp, pro
ceed at a moment's notice.
PITTSnitnCH. My 8. Martial law
prevails In Braddock. the scene of yester
day's fatal riots. The 18th Regiment is
patrolling the streets and more militia
men are arriving hourly. The troops were
sent In response to appeals by Sheriff
Richards to Goernor Brumbaugh.
Shortly nfter noon large bodies of strik
ers, most of them foreigners, began a
movement toward Braddock. The Gov
ernor's Troop was Immediately advised
and prepared to move there forthwith.
Labor leaders view the coming of the
troops with apprehension. They point out
that the arrival of State troops In the
Pittsburgh district always has been the
signal for renewed outbreaks. On other
occasions many of the guardsmen have re
fused to fire Into the crowds when ordered
to do so
The casualties In yesterday's riots were
two dead and 30 wounded. Three are be
lleed to be dying In the Braddock Hos
pital Seen strike leaders are In Jail,
among them Anna Bell, a pretty young
woman.
BOY STARTED RIOT.
Details of yesterday's battle show that
It was caused by a 12-year-old boy who
carried a banner crudely painted In red
with this Inscription, "Eight hours work.
Continued on Paje Six, Column Three
"S
BODY BELIEVED FOUND
Discovered in Bushes Near 72d
Street and Power's Lane.
Awaits Parent's View
The body of a boy was found In a clump
of bushes near 72d street nnd Powers ave
nue this afternoon and the police of the
JJd street and Woodland aenue jtation
believe It is the body of Richard Meeklns,
8 years old. of 2440 South 61st street,
who disappeared from his home on No
vember S9. 1915.
The body was discovered by I Self, who
les In the neighborhood. He Immedi
ately gut in touch with the police of the
65th street and Woodland avenue station
and they sent the patrol wagon to the spot
to carry the body to the police station.
Apparently the boy had been dead fori
several monins, ana it win be necessary
for the lad's parents to Identify It by the
clothing he wore when he was last seen
District Detectives Qulgley and Print, of
the C5th street and Woodland avenue
station, together with Sergeant Rambo.
went (9 the spot where the body was
found.
Following the finding of the body, the
police notified Meeklns. father of the
Meeklns boy, that the body of a lad had
been found, s.nd the man started for the
police station to see whether (be body
was that of bis son.
RUSSIA JOINS
JAPAN TO SHUT
CHINA'S 'DOOR'
Aid Pledged for "Any Ac
tion" Tokio May Wish
to Take
NEW TREATY DRAWN UP
Open Door, Fostered by United
States, Menaced by Strong
Alliance
What Russo-Japanese
Treaty Means to China
Japan obtains tho pledged assist
ance of Russia in any action neces
sary to maintain pence in China.
Rus3in is held by an iron-bound
ngrccmrnt to lend such nld, nnd
Japan hns full discretion as to
when nction is "necessary against
China."
Japan and Russia agree to help
citizens of their respective coun
tries residing in ench other's ter
ritory, nnd to .respect the rights of
the countries ns nations.
Japan will continue to supply tho
Russian army with equipment.
Japan reserving a sufficient supply
to make its vast army effective.
Tho upshot of the affair is that
Japan gains n powerful vnssal
army to call when it wishes for
service ngainst China and agninst
any third country that may seek to
interfere.
rnKIN', Mny 3. Russia and Japan
have agreed upon a return of tho closed
door for China.
A new treaty, establishing Russian nnd
.Inpancso rights in Chinese territory, has
been negotiated between ToKlo nnd Potro.
grnd. by which the "open donr" nil the
C hlnese coast, so uillantly championed by
tho United States, Is to be closed
Mail ndxlees from Toltlo, which escaped
the attention of the censor by reason nf
being sent by post instead of telegraph.
Indicate that Japan and Russia nro tak
ing advantage of tho turbulent situation
brought about by the unild war nnd nre
planning to ,-ettle the fate of China be
tween themselves.
THIS NI3W PACT. "
The chief articles of the new Japanese
Russia treaty follow:
First Russia will cede to Japan a
portion of the Chinese i:a,stcrn Rail
way from a point south of Harbin
(Mnnchuiln) to Chang Chung.
Second. While the present war lasts
Japan will supplv Russia with arms
nnd other war supplies as far ns It
Is compatible with tho defense of the
country and Japan's manufacturing
capacltj".
Third. Russia shall glvo liberal
treatment to Japanese who live and
engage In agricultural, commercial and
industrial pursuits In eastern Siberia,
northern Snghallen and In the terri
tory belonging to the Chinese Uastern
Railway in Manchuria.
Fun . Russia shall maintain Vlad
hostock as a commercial port nnd
shall not carry out nny further mili
tary preparations llkel to nrauso the
suspicions of Japan regarding Rus
sia'M Intentions.
J-'lve. Japan nnd Russia shall re
spect each other's Interests In Man
churia nnd Mongolia, and If any ills-
Continued on l'nce Six, Column I'otir
AMBLER GETS TWO
WARRANTS AGAINST
GEORGE D. PORTER
Accuses Former Director of
Criminal Libel and Giving
Out False Information
to Papers
HEARING TOMORROW
Two warrants for the arrest of George
p Porter, secretary of the Citizen's Re
publican League, were sworn out this
nfternoon by Charles A. Ambler. Vare-Brumbaugh-Smith
candidate for Auditor
General The first warrant charged Mr.
Porter with criminal libel, and the sec
ond with furnishing false nnd defamatory
reports for publication in the newspapers.
The statements of Porter upon which
the warrants nre based were Issued by
the Citizens' Republican League and
charged that Ambler, through his con
tracting firm, was profiting unfairly in a
!' contract for the construction of a bridge
nt I'hoenlxville. Amlber yesterday morn
ing asked Porter If he would assume re
sponsibility for the statements This the
former Director of Public Safety and in
dependent mayoralty candidate did.
The papers. It Is said, will be served on
Thomas Reyburn White, counsel for
Porter, this afternoon. Mr. White, It is
understood, will accept service for his
client. The case will be heard at 3 o'clock
tomorrow nfternoon before Magistrate
Beaton in his office, at 11th and Spring
Garden streets. Thomas J. Meagher will
represent Ambler ns counsel.
The league In Its statement asserted
that p. low bid of $55,000 'for the bridge
was rejected by the Chester and Mont
gomery County offleials, who later award
ed the contract to the Ambler-Davis Com
pany for $80,000 under such provisions
that the contract ultimately would reach
$135,000,
Friends of Ambler today asserted that
the $55,000 bid was for a portion of the
bridge only They .said that 14 reputable
contructlns firms bid on the second speci
fications, and that the Ambler bid was
low by $1000. The bids, as announced
by Ambler's friends, were:
Ambler-Davis Company. $80,894; Dravo
Construction Company. Pittsburgh. $S6,.
6!5; F M Talbot Company. New York.
$85,376 J William C. Kvans, Ambler. $84,376
(the next lowest bid) ; Whlttacker & Dlahl,
Harrlsburg. $89,738; Day & Zimmerman,
Philadelphia, $94,091; Thomas Sheahan,
Hagerstown, Md.. $97,776, R. W. Foley,
New York. $98,776 ; National Foundry and
Engineering Company. New York. $108.
000, Ferro Concrete Company. Harm
turg. $9 434.4 B. Bunting & Co . Flush
ing, $103 000 . T I Eyre. Philadelphia.
$113,400, Foster Construction Company,
Newark. $127,437 On unit price bids Ant
bler was also low, at $103,251.
QUICK NEWS,.
FIRE DAMAGES LACKAWANNA RAILROAD PIER
NEW YORK. May 3.Fire of unknown origin did 100.000 dam
age to the pier of tho Xackawnmln and Western Railroad at the fool
of 28th street this afternoon. The police declared there were no war
suupllcR on the pier.
AMERICAN SCHOONER IN DISTRESS OFF BERMUDA '
WASHINGTON, May 3. Shoit of coal nnd fresh water and wita
her lifebontw washed away 700 miles east of Bermuda, the American
schooner Roscellnn, New York for Lisbon, was reported by the captain
of the British steamship Coionnto to be in dtsticss, according to a-
State Depaitment message from Kingston, Jamaica, today. Tiic
Koicellnn is making for Bermuda. The schooner Is -owned by V. and
3 Job, of 23 Bioadwny, New Yoik.
WESCOTT DECLINES TO RUN FOR SENATOR'
TREiNTOX. Mny 3.--Attornc Cirneral John W. Wcsc'ott today decided that
ho will not ho a c.imlldatc for I'lilici! States Senator to succeed James E.'Martlno.
His friends had been circulating a petition asking him to enter the contest, but
he declared today that he hail requested them to recall it.
MARCH EXPORTS OF, U. S. A RECORD
WASHINGTON, Mny 3. The exports of tho United States for March totaled
In value approximately $410,000,000. This, according to an announcement by
the Department of Commerce today, sets a new world's record. Tho figures
represent a gain ocr the br9t previous record, established In February this
year, of about $7,000,000. Mnrch's Imports totaled $214,000,000, leaving a net
trade balance in favor of this country of $19fi,000,000. '
$3,500,000 PHILADELPHIA DRYDOCK APPROVED
WASHINGTON, May 3. The House Naval Affairs Committee today formally
approved the subcommittee recommendation for a $3,G00,000 drydock appropria
tion for Philadelphia. It has been Incorporated In tho naval appropriation bllL
Tho now drydock for Norfolk was approved also.
NORTHWESTERN R. R. ORDERS 1000 BOX CARS
CHICAGO, May 3. Tho Chicago and Northwestern has ordered 1000
40-ton wood undername box cars from
pany.
SPANISH SHIP SINKS AFTER EXPLOSION
CORUNNA, Spain, Mu 3. Tho Spanish steamship Wlnlfreda was aunk off
tho coast eatly today with tho loss of one life. Tho ship went to tha bottom
six' minutes nfter an explosion shattered the hull and the captain believes' that
it was torpedoed. All members of tho crew except one. wcro picked up and
brought to Corunno.
SOFIA DENIES MAKING PEACE OVERTURES
RERMN, May 3. An ofllcfal dispatch from Sofia, Issued by the Overseas
News Agency, denies reports published In a Swiss newspaper that tho Bulgarian
and Turkish envoys In SwitJ-erlnnd had opened negotiations for peace with repre
sentatives Of tho Kntntltn TViu-nra , f
Bentatlves of tho Entente Powers.
KING OF SPAIN SUGGESTED FOR U-BOAT ARBITRATION
LONDON, May 3. A dispatch to the Exchange Telegraph Company from
Amstetdam says: "Diplomatic circles In touch with Germany believe tho reply
to the American note will bo delivered Thursday, but that In all probability It will
not be in tho nature of a final leply. They expect that Germany will make counter
proposals legardlnjr the establishment of new rules for submarine warfare. If.
is suggested In political circles that tho King of Spain will bo asked to arbitrate
between tho two countries on tho question of submarine warfare."
POINCARE HONORS SHAKESPEARE'S TERCENTENARY
PARIS, May 3, President Poincare sent a telegram to King Georgo on the
occasion of the Shakespeare tercentenary. He said France was interested in the
event, not only because Shakespeare belonged to entire humanity, but because
ho was a voice from thi past winch made Franco familiar with the "eternal soul
of a friendly people." Kins George, In reply, wild he hoped Shakespeare's works
were destined to bo an Influence forever in maintaining a close friendship between
the two countries. .
WAR VICTIMS TO BE EXCHANGED IN SWITZERLAND
LONDON.-May 3. The Torelgn Office announces it has learned from Walter
Illnes Page, the American Ambassador,
proposals for the transfer to Switzerland of British and German wounded ,or
invalid prisoners of war for exchange.
NORTHERN EPIRUS NOW UNLJER GREEK RULE
BERLIN, May 3. Northern Eplrus has been placed under Greek civil ad.
minlsttation, according to dispatches received hete last night from Athens. It Is
said that the Greek Government has promulgated a decree establishing the
districts of Komitza and Argil o Kastro. Greece has been endeavoring for some
time to extend her administrative system to northern Eplrus, which comprises
northwestern Greece and part of southern Albania. Deputies from Eplrus were
admitted some time ago to the Greek Chamber.
"DOCTORED" FRUIT DEALERS TO BE ARRESTED
The State Dairy and Food authorities have ordered the arrest of more than
SO Philadelphia dealers for the sale of maraschino cherries said to have been
artificially colored and treated with sulphur dioxide, The arrests will be made
under the direction of Robert M. Simmers, agent for the Dairy and- Food Com
mission in this district.
BUELOW URGES ACCEPTANCE OF AMERICA'S VIEW
' PARIS. May 3. Prince von Buelow. former Chancellor of Germany,, prom
inently mentioned as a suctesior to Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg or Foreign
Minister von Jagow, has returned to Berlin from Switzerland. He has Joined the
moderate party in urging full acceptance of the conditions laid down In President
Wilson's note, according to a dlcpafch from Geneva.
GREEK LIBERALS CHEER ALLIES AT SALONICA.
PARIS, May 3. The first mass-meeting at Salonlca, of the Greek Liberal
party since the arrival there of the allied troops wasTield Sunday. The Havas
coriespondent at Salonlca says an Immense crowd gathered to listen to the
Liberal orators, who demand-id that Greece return to the policies of the former"
Premier Venizelos, and Intervene In the war on the side of Serbia and her allies.
The crowd cheered references to France and England, t'he correspondent says,
and shouted Its dlsapprovp.1 of Germany, Austria and Bulgaria.
PROGRESSIVES PERFECT PLANS FOR CONVENTION
CHICAGO, May 3. Plans have been petfected for the Progressive party
convention In the Auditorium Theatre on June 7. the day upon which the Repub
llBun convention opens. The seating capacity is limited to 4000, Flooring Is to
be put In from the stage to make an extension upon which (he newspaper cor
respondents will be accommodated.
COMMISSION WILL RULE PERSIAN FINANCES
LONDON. May 3. A Russian news agency dispatch from Teheran ayi
arrangements have been completed for the formation of, a commission to super
visa the finances of Persia. The Persian Treasurer General -will preside oyer
the commission, which wlH Include representatives of Russia and England. The
body will decide what financial assistance, Persia requires from England n
Russia, will control expenditures and will draft the flrit real Psrsian tupteft.
the American Car and Foundry, Com
that Germanv has nrfTented thn nHH.v,
tk
k
W
