Sports of al aorts covered NG Al the Ne of the World
by experts-and the com- 1 by Two Telegraphic and
plete box scores of the ball Cable Servies-Al the News
gam. -L Cof Washington.
NO. 3485. WEATHER: CL.0UDY, COOLER. W ASHTNGTON, D. Q. WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 1916- ONE CENT.
rWO KIlLED, 5
FATALLY SHOT
IN STRIKE RIOT
Thomson Steel Works' Men
Battle in Braddock Streets
With Deputies.
MOB ATTACKS PLANT
Officers Fire on Crowd From
Behind Barricade, Stop
ping Mad Charge.
BULLETS HIT SYSTANDERS
2,000 Citizens Deputized to Preserve
Order After One of Bloodiest
Clashes of Pittsburgh History.
(By The Sa News Service.)
Pittsburgh. May .-Two men were
killed, five probably fatally wounded, and
a score or more of others more or less
seriously wounded in a riot at the en
trance of the Edgar Thomson Steel
Works, Braddock. this afternoon, when
strikers from the Turtle Creek and
Menongahela valleys, endeavoring to en
list the Edgar Thomson employes in the
fight for an eight-hour day, charged the
plant and fought a pitched battle with
sheriff's deputies, company guards, and
coal and iron police.
Anna Bell, the young woman leader
of the striking Westinghouse employes.
was arrested tonight on a charge of
murder In connection with the Brad
dock fatalities.
In the face of a deadly fire from riot
guns and revolvers, the strikers, after
retiring from their first attack with two
of their number dead and a half dosen
Injured, attacked the plant a second
time, and were dispersed after one of
the bloodiest battles in the history of
Alleghany county industrial disturbances.
Barricading themselves behind steel
billets and In small out-buildings, ten
feet inside the plant wall, the deputies
and guar&, directed volley after volley
into the ranks of the strikers, and the
latter. fighting stubbornly, retreated
under the dre, carrying some and leaving
other wounded memers of their ranks
strewn about the entrance to the plant.
Deputies Pire lute Crowd.
Chief Deputy Sheriff David Braun di
rected the fight against the attacking
force, and is said to have directed his
men to fire into the crowd, after efforts
to disperse the mob with shots in the air
had failed.
Charging the deputies a second time,
the strikers found themselves engaged
In a hand-to-hand struggle with the
guards and deputies ten feet inside the
plant, and though handicapped through
abserce of firearms, forced the armed
guards back several times.
Many Bystanders Shot.
Pedestrians, walking in Thirteenth
street, unaware that they were about to
be in the midst of a riot, were wounded
by stray bullets, which flashed from the
riot guns in the hands of the deputies.
Charging into the plant, the strikers
attacked the office of W. J. Dixon. super
intendent of transportation, and with
clubs and stones, almost wrecked it.
Deputies, rushing to prevent the destruc
tion of the office, were forced to use It
as a barricade, and from behind it they
poured shot after shot Into the maddened
crowd of many thousands which surged
about the entrance to the plant.
Private citizens and "any decent men"
were being deputized on the streets of
Braddock tonight, and it is estimated
that at least 2,000 men have been sworn
in to act as deputies.
Jacob Lorrilard Leaves $900,000.
New York. May 2.-Jacob Lorilard, son
of Peter Lorilard. bequeathed his estate
of over 1900,000 to members of his fam
ily. He died in London, England, on
April 28 last
Did You Know That
THE HERALD
ATI CENT
(Daily and Sunday)
Saves Wasingtonians
Over 5175,000
a Year
A yearly subscription to the
Sdaily Herald Is $3 less than the
yearly subscription to Its morning
competitor.
A yearly subscription to The
Sunday Herald is $3 less than a
yearly subscription to eitber of its
morning competitors.
Daily and Sun'day Herald sub
scribers, therefore, pocket a say
ing of $5 a year on their favorite
negpaper.
b* The average net paid circulation
of The Washington Herald for last
mnonth 1rns Over 35,000. Xulply
this 35,000 by the $5 saving of eacb
indtvidual subscriber, and you
have the really stupendous amount
of $175,000 that Herald readers
save on their yearly newsah
...be...Uoaa
Russia Expects War to
Last 18 Months Longer
(ay The San News Servitee).
Chicago, May 2.-Perceval
Gibbon, correspondent of the
Chicago Daily News, sends
the following today from the
headquarters of the southern
Russian command:
"One question enters into
all the conversations with gen
erals and it is impossible to
avoid it: "When will the war
end?"
I asked this question of
Gen. Broussiloff today. The
new commander-in-chief of the
southern armies smiled.
"I am not a prophet," he
said, "but I think that about
eighteen months will be nec
essary for a complete victory.
It is a period which Russia
can endure without difficulty.
The enemy, on the contrary,
is facing increasing difficulties.
His morale is undergoing a
strain to which possibly he
will not be equal much
longer."
BRITAIN TO
DRAFT ARMY
Asquith Announces He Will
Introduce Bill to Compel
Enlistment.
TELLS HOUSE OF COMMONS
COMPULSION MUST COME
Declare British Military Strength Is
Now Nearly Three Times
That of 1914.
London. May 2.-Premier Asquith de
clared In the house of commons this aft
ernoon that a bill to be introduced to
morrow would be one of general and im
mediate compulsion. t
The prime minister announced that the
whole recruiting problem would be dealt
with in a single bill.
Mr. Asquith said that the total naval
and military effort of the British em
pire since the beginning Of the war ex
ceeded 5.000,000 men.
Mr. Asquith said that while in August,
1914. the British army at home and over
seas consisted of twenty-six divisions
there were now seventy-one divisions, in
cluding the naval division.
French Make Big
Gains at Verdun
Assume Offensive, Capturing
Mile of Trenches, Turning
Tide of Battle.
(By the International News service.)
Paris, May 2.-The French in their
counter offensive north of Verdun
have won by storm more than a mile
of trenches. For the time at least
the initiative has passed into their
hands.
Reports tonight say that the Ger
mans are bringing up great masses
of re-enforcements In an effort to stop
the French drive and regain the di
recting hand in the battle of Verdun.
That Gen. Petain has struck on the
psychological moment and that the
French are now definite masters of the
Verdun fighting is the opinion of mili
tary experts here. They expect that
the Germans will strike somewhere
else on the front. most probably
against the sectors held by the Brit
ish as a means of leting the Verdun
attempt sink gradually into the tomb
of history.
UNSHAKEN BY KUT DEFEAT.
Governor Cables King Colony Will
Put Forth Renewed Effort.
London. May 2.-The governor of
Australia has sent he following message
to the king:
"On behalf of the government and the
people of Australia, I wish to espress my
profound sorrow and sympathy for the
loss of the gallent garrison of Kut-el
A.mara. Thle dIsaster will but strengthen
Australia's determination to do her part
in strengthening the overpowering of
your majesty's enemies."
HURit1U XURDER T~tTAT.
Aeeumed Aeks Jur'y to 'Cut Out Talk'
and Deelde His. Fate.
Frankfort. Ind.. May 2.--Harry A. Oli
ver, on trial today for the murder of
his mother, caused surpiee in court
when he asked permission during th4
wordy proceedings to make a Statement
before the jury. H. said that although
insane at the time of the murder, he now
was sane, and cosneluded:
"Do what you are going to do with me
and out out all this talk."
lerse G. 0. P. Delegatas Keet.
Trenton, N. J7., May 2.--New Jersy
Repulblioan delegates to the national con
wention met here today, but dcded to
defer organisation until the delegation
reaebed Ching.This was detersled
he a vote ef Ii to II.
ON TR
PLE06
Ny I:"
,4
. .~ ' v)..
"DONT YOU TWINK!I DESERVE ANOTHER?"
CAMPAIGN TO
BEGIN Given Girls in "War Camp'
G. 0. P. Will Open National
Headquarters in Chicago Fair Students in Chevy Chase Preparedness School Dolec
May 10. Same Mess That Uncle Sam Gives Marines With Butter
25,00 REQEST EATSAdded-Assistant Secretary Roosevelt Speaks.
25,000 REQUEST SEATS
IN CONVENTION HALL Students of the high cost ot living, to pay for hauling out here, and as wE
and leaser persons appalled by the soar- do not put In such large quantities, wi
t By The Sun News Service.) ing prices of food, will be interested to have to pay a little more."
Chicago. May .-Republican national know that out at Chevy Chase, Mrs Use Paper Napkins.
headquarters will be opened in the Con- George Barnett, commissary general, is The dining-room is the large mess ten
gress Hotel May 10, and the party wheels feeding the two hundred students and the which has been erected along Thornap
will be given their whirl for the begin- ifty or more doctors, nurses, and gen
ning of the campaign. eral helpers at the Natlonal Service besidie Woodnes sid ethrs
Charles P. Hilles, chairman of the na- School. at a total coat of something lik, pa n ut tal crockery b
tional committee, and James B. Rey- forty cents apiece a day, from t s ai co. e o ie
nolds, its secretary, are expected to cometh MaieCrs Tefodi
fludsit seretry ar execed o cme The food is good and its supply liberal, on the table when they march In. an<
from New York for the opening. as the following menu for yesterday at- they wipe their fingers on paper ni
The seating, platform and other r-or- instead of the linen to which they ar
rangements have been made with the
ange, hminy baon, rea buteraccustomed.
view to the accommodation of the largest spring onions, and coffee; dinner con- Sergi Charles Berger is Mrs. Bar
number of persons that ever attended a
nubro esn htee teddasilted of roast lamb with mint sauce, Heftts right-hand man, and in direc
convention in Chicago. roast potatoes. June peas, asparagus,
More than 25,000 requests have been re- cag ftefu ok n ite
Mor thn 2,it reuess hve eenre-lettuce, bread, butter, strawberries, and mess attendants, all of whom ha'e comE
ceived and it is impossible to accommo
date more than 11,000. Mr. Upham de- cream flled bea supper la
clared preference will be given to sub- tandants did not arrive and the studenti
scribers to the $100,000 fund necessary to andstewd"prnes themselves did the work on Monday. Foi
handle the convention. the same menu that they have dinner yesterday, according to the ser
__________________at the Marine Barracks, with the ex- gat hr eeeaty23proa
sa vrns s' ception of butter." said Mrs. Barnett. "Tefo sslendid. Forrefa
SPURNED SUITOR SLAYS"
'W hv bttrtheetme ady;thyyesterday we had-" It was a brown
FARMER AND DAUGHTER only once. The Marine Corps doe it for eyed, khaki-clad girl, enthusiastically x
ERabout 2 cents a day; but it costs us
more, for they have contracts by the plaining the camp to friends who hat
come out to visit her; and passing amm
SprsPleading MohrWho Begged v
Spares PlaigMother Wh egdyear for supplies, while we could make,
For Life to Bury Her only for month. Also,
Dead. PROPOSAL FOR UNION PREPAREDNESS URGED
Thompson, Conn., May Z.-After
killing George A. Pettis, a well-to-do CHEERED BY METHODISTS AT PEACE CONGRES;
farmer, and his daughter, Sybil Pettis,
23 years old, today, John Elliott, 46
years old, a rejected suitor, whose at- General Conference Delegates Applaud Gen. Wood Tells World Court Advo
tentions to the young woman had been Plan of Uniting Churches of cites U. S. Must Be Ready to
refused, fled toward the Rhode Island North and South. Employ Force.
line, pursued by a posse of deputy Saratoga. N. Y., May 2.-A remark- New York, May 2-Apparently then
sheriffs. Elliott handled two revolvers able demonstration of approval today were no fanatics among the men ant
when he confronted his victims, and in
whnhed confrtelisg victisadin- greeted Bishop John W. Hamilton's women who were gathered in Carnegi
addition a r ve bag c ain favorable references to the proposed Hall today for the opening of the thre
ing two additIonal revolvers, two large plan of consolidating the Methodist days' sessions of the World Court Con
dirk knives, two sitcks of dynamite church In the North and South, and gress, They are engaged in the further
and a pair of brass knuckles. These all their churches and fraternal or- once of the plan, supported by all th
were found near the house where ganizations, as he read the address of leading powers, to establish an intern
droppedothe inthis flig t the board of bishops at the Methodist tional tribunal for the settlement o
Mrs. George Pettis, confronting the general conference. lustiable issues between nations.
slayerThe delegates arose in their seats The best applauded speech of the da;
begged for her own life, saying she
wished to live to bury her dead. and cheered, and Bishop Barry called was that of Gen. Leonard Wood, wh
Elliott had cut the telephone wires for a period of silent prayer for the said that there are me kinds of peac
and not until Mrs. Pettis had stag- success of the movement, which would that are worse than war, and that if th
gored to a neighbor's house were the bring sore than 6.300,000 American United States is goigg to be a reall;
authorities aware of the murders. A Methodists under one leder. -iportant member of the court it mus
posse was organised and began search-part with fore
ing the neighborhood for the missing
manGalesburg. Ill.. May 2.-Alumni and mond Insisted on "'preparedness" fo
otheF friends of Knox College have sub- America now.
Typhus in German Prison Camps. B 1 of the half milon
London, May 2.-In the house of com- downt fund, the campaign for which Mltia Xa Cope With BaipoL
mons this afternoon Sir Edward Grey. ended tods. Wilmington, Del, May 2-State troop
the foreign minister, announced that an may be called out within twenty-fou
investigation by the United States Em- ulAeor e t3'ala hostositteplceienoc1
bassy in Berlin has revealed the pres- Amsterdam. May .-The Germans are messures that have been fau'd ne-essar
once of typhus in other prison camps as a
well ay Wittenberg, in Germany. Somec
of thes, he said, had Seen d~ Ifor both aeropl~anes and Z~plasE sas ragiag here. 'The =1110 will be used t
bteea.eaGivnGrsid "Warm&o C me 4
" ".
Five Zeppelims Raid
Eugand and Sedtad
(NY The San News serviss).
London, May 2.-Five Zep
pelins appeared over the north
east coast of England and the
southeast coast of Scotland
early tonight.
It is known that the raid
era dropped a few bombs in
Yorkshire, but the exact area
covered by the aircraft and
the damage done by them
has not been reported.
The official announcement
of the raid is as follows:
"The commander-in-chief of
the Home Forces reports that
five hostile airships attacked
the northeast coast of England
and the southeast coast of
Scotland tonight."
"i
GERMAN REPLY
TO U. S. READY
Berlin Expected to Suggest
Discussion of Details of
Sub Dispute.
DEFINITION OF "PRESENT
METHODS" TO BE REQUESTED
Changed Conditions of Naval War
fare Probably Will Be Referred
to in Justification.
The German reply to the Inited States
has been prepared and may actually be
on its way to Washington. This was
learned yesterday from an authoritative
source.
The reply proper is expected to be brief.
Intimations of its contents have reached
Washington, and the important features
are expected to be:
1. An assurance that Germany will con
duct her submarine warfare in accord
ance with the recognised rules of inter
national law. These rules must be de
fined, but in general they require that
the vessel attacked shall be warned,
that she has the right of visit and search,
and the provision must be made for the
safety of passengers mnd c-w. .
:. Changed conditions of naval warfare
will be referred to and mention will be
made of modifications of the rules of
such warfare by all the belligerent coun
tries, and notably Great Britain, whi-h
has attempted to institute new rules of
blockade.
3. An ann 'uncement ,that Germany is
ready and willing to discuss with the
United States details of the issues in
solved in submarine controversy. These
details would relate to the indefinite anid
vague expressions contained in the note
to Germany. One of the demands was
that "present methods" of submarine
warfare be abar.doned. There is no de
finition of "present methods" but Ger
many may understand that phrase as
meaning incidents such as the alleged at
tack on the English Channel steamer
Sussex, which was singled out for special
mention by President Wilson in his ad
dress to Congress.
ROUNDING UP LAST
OF THE IRISH REBELS
Sir John French Reports Ireland
Quiet and Revolters Handing
Over Their Arms.
London, May "--Sir John Frenchs re
port on conditions in Ireland fol.ows:
"Dublin is gradually reverting to its
normal condition. The work of clearing
some of the small districts around the
Irish town is being carried out bv eve-y
contracting concern.
"Cork-All is quiet throughout the
county, with the exception of an affray
in the Ferney district, where the police.
in attempting to arrest two men In their
house, met with armed resistance The
head constable was shot dead. On the
arrival of military re-enforcements the
occupants of the house, two of whom
were wounded, surrendered. The Sinn
Feiners in the city of Cork, where there
was no rising. have handed in their arms.
"Wexford-The column which went to
Enniscorthy is carrying on the arrest of
the rebels throughout the county of Wex
ford.
"'he rest of the southern part of Ire
land is reported quiet.
Slav Advance Cheers Petrograd.
Petrograd. May 2.-Announcement thai
Russian troops are continuing their v-ic
torious march toward Bagdad aroused
greater enthusiasm here today than did
the news of the fail of Ersruim and Tre
bisond. Asia Minor has long been the
goal of Russian thoughts.
Suggests Alfonso as Arbitrator.
Ambterdam, May 2.-It has been sug
geated in German political circles, says
a dispatch from Berlin today, that Kins
Aifonso of Spain, has been asked to
arbitrate in the dispute which has arisen
between the UnIted States and Germoany
over the latter's submarine warfare.
$2,000,000 Raisd For Clergymen
-New York. May 2-Rft. Rev. Lawrence,
bishop of Massachusetts announced here
today that 32000,00 has been pledged to
Sward the proposed $5.Un.0% pesIon fusul
f or Upiscopel etergymna. The omns.,
wim ..aimmmea mes t~ I M.
OBREGON AND
GEN. SCOTT IN
FINALPARLEY
Mexican General Crosses to
El Paso for Long
Conference.
TROOPS WILL STAY
Ca r r a n za Representative
Seeks to Avoid Clash with
American Forces.
U. S. FIES CONDmoNs
Constitutional Leader Becomes More
Conciliatory on Learning Washing.
ton Backs Gen. Scott's Stand,
El Pas, Ten., il" 2-4y d
retteer of Nieatr ef War Obre..
the feolewiag mounge was tee
warded by Adelf bhe La mase
to a high eaetttteminat tdal
In Mexies City at 4as Ei Pam
tienes
* am direeted to ltferem ze
that the eesfesemee new an paw..
rus with r'epsemae tve a or the
Uaited States is likely ts end at
todetaeely to an esmeesg..
By a K STAN BURT.
(Intermtaaes= Nare ysst
El Paao. Tex., May f.-If the tnited
States is to have war with Mexloo a
few hours more will tell the story
Minister of War Alvaro Obregon.
smiling and defiant yesterday. pushed
aside today the generals who bad
forced him to demand the immedite
withdrawal of the punitve expedi
tion.
He came to El Paso from Juarez. un
attended even by a military esoort.
and sought an informal conference
with Maj. Gen. Hugh . Scott at noon
The conference lasted all through the
afternoon. At 7310 o'clock dinner was
served to the two men and the Indi
cations were that the conference
would continue well ings the night.
The purpose of the meeting was ad
nitted by Get. Prederick Funator.
who remained In his private car. to
be an effort to find some new ground
!for an amicable agreemnt under n hce
the United States can continue thr
pursuit o' Pancho Vlla and his hands
Gen Scott entered the confe-enc
room fortified with instructions from
Washington that the troops would no'
be withdrawn until the purpose of the
expedition had been accomplished
The instructions were so broad ad
complete that the Americar gene-s
would have been keeping :tbin the
bounds of his authority had he re
fused to negotiate further over the
question of the withdraws' I bregem
learned this unofficially and was much
more conciliatory In manner
At the end of eight hours no wo.d -
to what was actually taking place in the
conference room had been given to th
public.
1:.tlt was known that i;en ScoT'
would insist upon an agrge-ier' ;hat 1h,
troop, be allowed to remain in Mex.
and receive the co-operation (.f the on
etitutjonalist forics until order had bee"
restored in Chihuahua He wil aree
after a stipulated period of time. to mak
Colonia Dublan the souI hem base of 0p
erations,.
If Obregon refuses to agree to the gen
eral terms and such condition as rma
be imposed. it is not likely that anothe
formal conference wi-' be held A forma
declaration of war is confident' expelt
ed in the wvent of a deadio-k between
the conferees
Gen. Pershing was notified late this aft
ernoon that the situation war extremelv
acute. Gen. Funstor, announced that the
American forces would be fully capable
of protecting the positions no,. held
Another column of infantry started
south along the line of communication
from Columbus during the day for de
fensive work. Machine guns have been
placed at all road crossings around 00
lumbus.
PLAN TO DEPORT LEPER.
War Department Aetheorsee Sending
Neabaumer to Philippia. e loy.
Columbus. Ohio. May s.-Edward Neo
baumner. Norwalk. Ohio, leper. "lnterned"
at San Francdsco. will be sent to the
Culion leper colony in the Philippines.
provided he is willing to go.
Attorney General Turner said Tuesday
the War Department has authoeied his
deportation. Turner has secured a PLAP
appropriation from the Stat. emiergency
board for preliminary expenses In cognac
tion with the transfer.
Oklahoma in Service.
Philadelphia. May 2.--The som.
nought Oklahoma. the newest addittee is
the United States navy, went into em
missiotn today at the PhiladelphiA navy
yard. The vesael cost abeut g~m
and in the largest btet p evr
on the Delaware River. SemeE
tons trial dispigt. .
Ldn. ay 2--Pretnier AegmttS =a
neunced in lhe house etee5
afternoon that Great Meata' tm &
eary -aa new amen - -
