lARRANZISTAS TO CO-OPERATE WITH U
. S. TROOPS
. I u Circulation Books Open to All."
"Circulation Jiooka Open to AIL
A PRICE ONE GElfT.
Copyright, 11)10. bj The I'refw FuMUhlng
Co. (The New York World).
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 1916.
18 PAGES
PRICE ONE 0 EN T.
! V- WEATHER Bhowera to-night Thursday partly 1itV.
I 'm "Circulation Hooka Open to All." - .
If.
RISH REBELS COURTMARTIALED;
MM PLEDGES U. S. AID;
TROOPS 10 BE WITHDRAWN
GRADUALLY, EL PASO REPORT
f A
Concessions Reported Made to
'Carranza Minister, Who
Drops Flat Demand.
GIVES USE OF RAILWAY.
'Agreement Sent to Washington
f and Mexican Capital to
' Be Ratified.
" " "
At iASO. Tex.. May J. The Amen-
tin expedlton will remnln In Mexico j
for the present without Interference
f-m Carranna. tropi-ordlng to an
X irrement reached early to-day by
Chief of taff Scott nnd fien. Obregnn,
Carrania's War Minister, after a con-!
Jeronco lasting nearly twelve hours. '
Obrcgon has granted permission for;
the expedition to havo full use of the
Mexlco-Northwcatern Railroad In j
allnnlltx mill II1M1. anil'
V baa promised to co-nperato "as fully 1
i possible" with Ocn. Pershing h'
forces, It was said on reliable nutlior-,
ttyt In return Ocn. Scott was unotll-,
elilly reported to have not a slsiy-day ,
limit on the presence of the Aiticrl-i
cans In Chlliuuhua.
Whllo this was not ocmfti mni. th-,
agreement n'ux awrnlly understood I
to provide for a grndtial letlrcmont of
tho' American forces In Mexico.
The troops, It Is understood, me to
f withdrawn at once as far as Co
tonla Dublan.
Tho conclusions will not becomo ef
fective, according to tho understand
ing around the conference room, un
til ratified by the respective Govern-
mcnts of tho confetonce. Though
Obrcgon was clothed with 'greater
authority than Scott, ho will submit
bis report to Oen. Carranza, while
Boott'a part of the agreement will be
subject to ratification by tho Wash
ington Administration.
Tha agreement was reached shortly
after midnight, following a conferenen
(Continued on Ki'venth Pae,)
METHODISTS HIT WILSON
IN WINE RESOLUTION
President Criticised at Conference
for' Serving Drink at While
r House Banquets.
SARATOGA SPRINGS, N. Y., May
p. Criticism of President Wilson for
providing wine for guests nt banquets
at the White House was expressed in
resolutions submitted to the Meth
odist General Conference to-day by
Rev. James W. Anderson of Oregon,
Tho resolution expressed tho "keen
..t Uunnnlntmcnt and regret" that
nines should be served nt the White
House, "especially nt a tlmo when the
nt nlhcr nut ions have taken
such advanced positions with refer
ence to Intoxicating liquors."
The resolution concluded with nn
....i in the I'ronldcnt nH a "Christian
HW, v "
' rwtleman" to abolish tho "wlnn cup"
la. . .. ...i.t-u UA 1... .
n all anairs uvtr "mm nu mm
,.trol.
Th resolution was reforred to tho
iCommittee on Temperance. Although
.v. n.nr wn riff ore,! In Dr. Anderson
tt an individual, tho entire Missouri
delegation supported the action.
FOUR EXECUTED IN
GERMANY'S REPLY
TO U. S. DEMANDS
DUE TO-MORROW
Announcement Comes From
Berlin That It Leaves No
Room for Doubt.
MIRLIN. May 3. It Is expected
that tho flerman reply to the Ameri
can noto will bo delivered to Ambas
sador Gerard to-morrow morning.
When the note ! forwarded
the attitude of Germany will be
itated in clear and precise terms.
It will leave no room for doubt
concerninn the exact position as
sumed by Germany, which will
communicate .the definite nature
of Instructions that will bo given
to submarine commanders, and
other data on which Washington
itself can judge the situation.
Tho Associated Press Is permitted
to mako theso statements, although ;
tho censorship despatches tending to
rovtal the tenor of tho German reply
la still infective. Tho dato of tho de
llcry of the answer has not been
llxcd.
Tho llerlln Garetto reports that Fl- j
nanco Minister Hclffcrlch took part'
In lllA rnnfnrnni'H at ftiA Wnlspr'fll
headriuartcrs.
Ambafsador James W. Gerard,
after hl urrlval at tha American Em
bassy on his return from Great Head
quarter:!, received tho newspaper cor
respondents. He declined to maku
tho slightest reference to tho occa
sion of his visit to the Emperor. It
was learned ho received Secretary
Lansing's telegram of instructions
In tlmo to communlcato with Chan
cellor von llethmaiin-Hollwcg beforo
Ills departure.
WASHINGTON, Muy 3.-CoJ. R. M.
House, PreMdmil Wilson's closest ad
viser, arrived hero to-day for a visit
at the. Whlto Houso. Ilo Is expected
to discuss the .submarine- situation.
Tho news that now Instructions to
stibmnrlno commanders wli bo an
nounced served to encourugo hopo of
a favorable! outcome of tho long dis
pute, but all decision Is being rosorved
until tho nowest Gorman communica
tion can bo analyzed und thoroughly
considered,
So confident Is Ambassador Hern
storff that tho coming reply to the
American note on submarlno warfare
will piovo acceptablo ho completed
plans to-day for romalnlng in Wash
ington all summer,
LONDON, May 3. Special do
bp.itr.hcs trom English correspondents
In Holland agreed to-day that tho
German reply will not meet President
Wilton's domands,
'ilio hngllsh correspondents wired
that Germany's answer will mako cer
tain concessions, both for tho purpose
of delav und to throw upon Presldont
Wilson responsibility for a break, but
that In thu main -t will bo urgumon
tatlvo and Indecisive.
Drop UpiiiI In Street,
Andiew Hliler, sixty-four years old,
'nt No. 56 C'nrtlnndt Aventus loading his
little KninCsnn from h store at One Hun
dred and Korlv-nlntb ytHTt ami Thlul
Avmtie, tn-iliiy mm slrifki'ii with
uiicipKxy nnil illi-d on the .li-mlk II
iihci ut'iii iniio)cii oy urn tioit Flour
Company In Water Street.
L
AI CITY HALL BY
Big Crowd Out to Protest
Against Establishment of
Garbage Plant.
ANGRY ABOUT POLICE.
Four Hundred Persons Crowd
Meeting Room, While Two
Thousand Swarm Outside.
Mayor Mltchot was roundly hissed
at the City Hall this nftornoon when
he appeared In tho Hoard of Estimate
chamber to preside, over a hearing on
the matter of establishing a municipal
garbage plant on Staten Island. In
and about tho City Hall 'at 'the time
were about two thousand five hun-j
dred Staten Islanders, many of them'
women, and some lour hundred ot
them were packed Into the room In
which the hearing was held.
The Staten Island folk were peevish
for two reasons, The first was be
cause the Mayor, the Comptroller
' and the Horough Presidents of Kings,
j Queens and the IJronx voted a muni
1 clpal garbage plant on Staten Island
at a hurriedly railed meeting of the
rioard of F.stlmate a month ago. Tho
.Xjecond was because the Mayor, In
anticipation of the visit of the Stnten
' Islanders to tho City Hull this nfter-
noon, ordered out enough policemen
to nurll n riot.
This was tho featuro that particu
larly gulled th Staten Island delega
tion, most of whom are taxpayers
ami paying tax at a higher rate
than that of any other borough.
When they got off the ferryboats at
tho nattery they wern met by a spe
cial detail of twenty-flvo policemen,
who warned them that they must not
form any sort of a parade. All the
way up Broadway uniformed patrol
men were on special detail to prevent
tho Staten Islanders from making any
concerted display.
BIG CROWD OF POLICE AROUND
CITY HALL.
In and around tho City Hnll, In
command of Inspector Dwyor. wero
i.u puiicamvii, specially ui'l.uu'U m
tno request or the Mayor. rncro
were 85 cops on the first and second
floors of tho City Hall proper and
20 nioro on reserve In the traffic
police station In the basement.
"It's a wonder tho Mayor didn't call
out the militia," remarked Dorough
President Van Name of Richmond.
What did ho expect us to do? Tear
down the City Hall?"
The hearing was set for 2.30 o'clock.
Mayor Mltchol did not appear until
2.50, and his greeting was extremely
hostile. In tho meantime Horough
Presidents Van Nnrao of Richmond
and Marks of Manhattan, who voted
against the Staten Island garbage
disposal plant, had been cheered
again und again.
Tho Muyor, plainly annoyed, an
nounced that ho would call on the
pollcu to restore order In caso of any
disturbance, He said there wero
eleven bills to bo considered und tho
lirst was tho SO-cent gas bill passed
by the Legislature through tho efforts
of The Evening World, giving relief
to gas consumers of South Brooklyn,
Tho Staten Islanders, who had been
led to believe that their matter would
be called up llrst, protested, but to no
avail. They had to sit back and
listen to tho arguments on the 80
cont gns measure. When word sifted
downstairs that tho garhago plant
hearing had been sidetracked hun
i divds of Staton Islander.i folded up
1 their banners and silently stole away.
x
I
HISSED
STATEN ISLANDERS
GIRL IN BROWN
A DS MRS. A A D
TO WIN DIVORCE
Woman Detective Tells of
Finding Her in Hotel Room
With Government Official.
WIFE AIDED BY FRIEND.
Mrs. Harde Testifies Writing on
Register Is Like His Bridge
Scores.
"A little bit of a girl In brown"
was disclosed to-day ns tho reason
why Mrs. Anna II. Artaud suddenly
left her homo In Washington, l. C.
last June, took up residence In a
suite at the Hotel Majestic and then
brought suit for dlvorco against
Theodoro P. Artaud. Supervisor of
tho Land Dopartment of tho Inter
state Commerce Commission and for
tnor genoral manager of the Hudson
and Manhattan Hallway Company.
After two weeks of secret hearings
attended by Mrs. Artaud's socloty
friends whoso reluctantly given tes
timony aided her materially Referee
George J. Gillespie recommended that
Supremo Court Justlco Glegcrlch
grant an absolute divorce to Mrs.
Artaud. Every effort hod been made
to keep tho proceedings from reach
lng the public. While not successful
In this, the parties to thu action did
manago to keep tho identity of tho
"lltle bit of a girl In brown" out of
the olilclnl iccord.
Mrs. Artaud was aided In tho suit
by Mrs. Nanna Harde, of No. 1 West
Ninety-fourth sheet, duugntcr ot
Charles F. Urown, a lawyer ot No. K0
Wall Street. "Mr. nnd Mrs. T. P. Ar
nold, Washington. 1. C." written on
tho register of the Hotol Manhattan,
was in tho handwriting of Mr. Artaud.
After a day at golf on tho Ardsloy
Club links, Mrs. Artaud and Mrs.
Hardo arrived at the Gland Central
Terminal together, tho afternoon of
Sept. 24 last. There they wero met by
Mrs. Allco Ixmlso Daggers, u detec
tive, Mrs. Hardo testillod. Mrs. Hardo
and the detective went to the Majestic,
where Mr. Artaud was staying, and
Mrs. Hurdo pointed him out.
Tho day following. Mrs. Daggers
waited ut thu Majcstla until Mr. Ar
taud camo out. Sim shadowed htm
for sovcnil hours, following lilm Into
tho Astor, where, sho tostllled, sho
saw htm tko drinks at tho bar and
then hurry to tho Hotel Albermarlo,
where lio was Jolnul by u little bit of
a girl In brown,
Mr. Artaud carried both his own
grip and a vatohcl given to him by
tho alleged correspondent, tho dotec
tlvo testified. Togcthor they walked
down liroadway to Forty-second
Street and then to tho Hotel Manhat
tan. As soon as Mr. Artaud registered at
the hotel, Mrs. Daggers testified, she
telephoned her son und William Loo,
an Arizona mining man, for assist
ance. "Wo went up to tho room of '.Mr.
Arnold' und I knocked at thu door,"
Mrs. Daggers tcstllled. "Mr. Artaud
opened it about a foot. Ho was very
much dishabille and his hair was
crumbled, I saw a llttlu bit of a girl
sitting up in the bed staring at the
opened door.
"When Mr. Artaud wanted to know
what wo wero doing I said wo had
found tho wrong room, und, after
apologizing and thanking him, wo left.
I don't think ho suspected wo wero
on a hunt for evidence."
When tho hotol register was pro
duced In court Mrs. Hardo was askud
to Identify tho handwriting In ques
tlon. "It is Mr. Artaud's hnndwriting,"
sh testified. "I know it very well. I
often pluycd bridxu with him and I
have iecu httn Kecpiug score,"
President of Irish
Executed in London Tower To-Day
' Wiui '
' w .tBI
WWWw LBii '!'
"m -t'HH -i
LLLLLbbHbbLH bbbbbbbbbbV. BbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbH '
'' bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbh bbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbh '''
' H afBfBTBBBBBV .BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBH '
' BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB flBP"BBBBBBV BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbI ''
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbLbbbbbbbbbW bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb! ''
i B BhBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBI '
' bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbalbbbbbi '
'' bbIbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbI "
'' HbBbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbI "
,.i bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbhbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbTbbbbbbbbi '
P, J. t l ptARX,E.
... a ,
FIJIANS QUIT MAN-EATING
FOR LURE OF MOVIES
British Governor Here, Says He
Can't Get 'llin lo Wear
Pauls.
Moving pictures have replnoerl can
nibalism as tho favorite p.ihtlmn of
the FljlntM, acronllng to Sir Ilcckhain
Swcet-Escott, Govrrnor of the l'"IJI
Islands, who arrived with I'id
Sweet-Escott on Ibo Tiiscanla of thu
Anrhoi Linn this inornllig. Sir Heck
ham Ih stationed at Suva on t ho Isl
and of 'ltl-l.'oii and only rawo up
to Indon when ho he.nd that his
cldrst (.on Leslie had been wounded
In action Auir, 15 last year.
Willi his wlfo tho Governor m.idr
the long trip homo and Ihoy had ilio
Pli isuie of watching their son !
cover his health sufficiently to ro
jciti hh icgtiuent. Within a wick
from his return to tho front hn was
killed whllu leading a charge.
"FIJI has sent alniut u liuiidrrd men,
nil llntiiih, to Join tliu forces of thu
moiher country." said Sir HeeUhar.t.
"Tho FIJI Islanders aru gradually
bi'comimr civilized to a certain ex
tent, hut the matter of clothes l.i still
a problem with us. They slak tu
their one piece of cloth and In a high
wind It Is ucgllglblu as a piotoctor
ot modest'. At any rate, they no
longer o.it human flesh and they urn
passionately devoted to thu cinemat
ograph." II, eeli i t fiit minima MniiU,
JihIk" IIiihI in the I'Vilernl HI.-in
I'OHIt to-day iipiinlnled llieiivllle (Jim I;
as leci iver of i hi aeti of the Audubon
National li.ink. which ent lulu vnlun-
tn I V fliMHittllttoil 'iNietme ago. The re
ceiver iif'heil lut I iv Juiiiim U'lilli
llallaid, eueler of the Kejolone liiiarii
illMlllllil'e I'lillljillliy, who recilleij a
Jililgineiit for SuU.OUU agulnst tlin bunk
nnd Ha stockholileis
TIIK WOHLl) TllAVKI, IIUHC.tU,
Aml. IM.Iiwr iWuiUI lluila.w,
M US I'nk IIj N Y. Ul,
ltiht MM.ritinn .-.'t&i A'. l, ill llff.
niuili tjjt.so i"i a' in I Hi'Mi iar.1.4.i
I'unilup lit,.'.. Ila.i.k'i ml tro'l rhtrk rui.m
oe-n 'Iflr i''t ui:' 'li, .ri'.i' ii-kt nl uumi,j
snliK ui T:, Ujh llUun 10UO. Adit,
THE TOWER
"Republic
IHT ni-M 'Stu Photo
50,000 LONGSHOREMEN
WILL GET MORE PAY
Merchant Marine A veils Another
Strike hv rirantin.tr Demand of
hmployee.
A strike of nlorn lliun ,"i(i,0oo long
shoremen that would havo tied up
shipping hern was averted to-day
when the International .Mercantile
Manni- granted it empiyeH n mnv
pav hcheilule of 40 rents nn hour for
day work, iWi kiiih an liour fur ulglit
work ami M ci iiih an hour fur Sun
da, work, to take eil'e. t lo-nlght.
Oilier einployeiH have given notice
that they would be lmund by the In
ternational Mi -antllr Murine
ROPSEVELT BEATEN BY
25,000 IN CALIFORNIA
Kefi-ular Republican Ticket Wins Hit;
ictoiy Over the United
t-nrces in Primary.
SAN 1'RANtISfO. M.ij 3.--Ho.
tains fi'im 2,129 out of l.HIT pirclnct.i
in California To-day indlcale that the
"rcgulai" Itepiilille.in candidate dele
gates lo the Itepiihllran National
t'omcntlon .tJ I'lilcigo, June 7, Imvr
heen elerled liy pluralities e.vceeillng
25.00'). Itcinibllcati ('halt man Francis
Keeslmg claimed a pliualily of i(l.OOi)
o"r the ItooMivcIt men.
Twuity-six oiiullil.iii-i of Hit
ln. ted 1 1 pnlil i. .i in 1 1 j ogi essivc
Ili illblii alls) weie defeated.
Tim Dciiiiieratlp candidates wore
pledged to HiiinnrM'icsident WllbOii.
U'llann iirme I e of eliiinl n
rmiiinnnlO' inlriaft.
WASIllNGTd.V. .May J -I'lejldeiit
Wilson to. day expies.eil iipiroval of the
use of n'lioil lailldlngH as rniiimunllv
centres, to a committee lepresentiint
the National Conference nn Comniuully
Ccntres M'sf .Mni'guivt llnnn, Hie
Pre. idem' dan jlilei , i, an ollleinl of
III) inlilll'illit I -folic l.efnie a
bou immltlei it.inih in lavur of
Hie plan, .
X '
I
PEAK, CONNOLLY, M
AND MACDONAGH ARE SHOT;
THE SENTENCED 10 PRISON
Premier Asquith Reveals Result of
Court Martial and Tells House of
Commons of the Executions
Hundreds Awaiting Trial.
SIR ROGER CASEMENT'S
FATE NOT MENTIONED
1 ONDUN, ,Mi) 3. Hour of the leaders of Ihc Dublin rebellion,
inchiJins I'atiick II. Pears.-, Ihe "Provisional PreMJent of Ireland," .
James Coiunlly, "CJonimaiiJanl General of the Irish RejuiblLMii Army;" '
Thomas J. Clark and Thomas. MacUundjjh, were shot in the Tower of
I ondon to-day. They, with other signatories of the document proclaim
ing the freedom of Ireland, had heen tried by court-martial and found
Kuill) of treason. ,
The ievolutiuii.li) proclamation, which was issued in Dublin at the
outbreak of Ihe rebellion, was signed by the four who were shot and by.
MacDiannad, li. Ceannt and Joseph Plunkell.. The latter three, be-'
cause of extenuating circumstances, escaped with sentences of thr;e
years in prison.
The summary action of the Government in disposing of the ring
leaders of the rebellion created a great sensation in London and will un
doubtedly have a profound ellecl in Ireland when the news is allowed to
reach there.
Judging trom olhcial reports between 700 and 800' prisoners have
been brought to Lngl.md trom Ireland since the icvolt was put down.
They are under guard at different military hcaiiquaiters and will be tried
by court martial as rapidly as their cases can be taken up.
300 MORE REBELS TAKEN TO BRITAIN.
About MX) prisoners, including several who are alleged to have ac
tively engaged themselves as leaders in the Dublin rioting, were brought
to lingl.md to-day. It is understood that the leaders were hurried to Lon
don, and the others were scattered through thecountry. Hundreds of pris
oners taken in Dublin, members of the provisional army who were caught
with arms luvc been taken to Belfast under heavy guard of Irish troops
and are cuntined in barracks there.
Dcspatrhi)!, from Dublin say the prisoners number thousands. It ii up
parently t tic object of thn military authorities to apprehend every person
who was concerned in thn rebellion or was known to havo participated in
meetings. f, ,,
One thousand prisoners wero marched through th streets ot Dublin
yesterday under mlllmry guard. Mnny boys In their tens and several wo
men wi rc In the detachment. Apparently theso prisoners had Just been a-
' n'tnliled after being brought In from districts outsldu of Dublin.
! QUICK TRIALS GOING ON IN LONDON.
Trials by court martial under tho Defense of tho Ttearra Act are pro
' cei'dlnK rapidly. Tho.- rebels who wore most actlvo In fomenting and aid-
Iny the revolution are being, tried llrst. Tho Government will make no state
ment as to tha nutcorao of theso trials until all havo been completed and
sentence have been continued. m;
Kir linger Casement is apparently still alive and awaltinit.frlal for high
1 ircnsnii in the Tower. This Is Indicated by tho announcement of Premier
1 As(iilth In the llotiso of ComnioiiH that tho four who were OKecuted thia
' morning Mgncd ,thr Irish proclamation. (
Tim auu prisoners who arrived In Knglnnd from Dublin to-day were '
' generally of n higher intellectual typo than those who were' brought over '
In Hid flr.it detachment. About o score of to-day's company"are wounded.
Marij or tho young men appear to havo been students active in the Irish
literary movement. Moiiy wero clerks and tradesmen and a few appeared
' to be farmers.
Although .ill the prisoners wore
men's clothmn, it was reported
that icver.il wero women, forty of
whom, all told, havo been mads
prisoner. Only about 5 ner cent,
of the prisoners wore the Sinn
Fein uniform.
A uiiml'cr of the prlsoniMh Indicated
their w llliu.'iiens to turn State' ovi
deuce, an t it is stated tl-at sumo
, stnt'tl.ng 1 11 f i m.it li it will iv ino to
the Uovcruiucnt from this source.
Normal conditions are returning
gradually In Dublin, and reports re
ceived from outlying districts indi
cate tho situation is well in hand.
The chief or the Fire Department
estimates the damage to bulldlnrs at
C 1,000,000 and to stock at 750,000. The
number of buildings destroyed or
damaged Is I'D.
in County Gaiway the Insurrection
baa been quelled completely, but the
1
1
r
awe--
BaBtefiBtAsBttMHW
