ft
•&
I
if
M'
THIS PAPER Issued in
Two Sections 8ection
one—Pages 1 to 6—Lo
cal news, stories, corre
spondence and Denison
locals.
VOL. 51
Bflpwi
ENJOYABLE TRIP
TO SOUTH DAKOTA
Mrs. Sylvester Horr, of Deioit, Tells of
Trip Taken by Herself and
1
Husband to South Dakolta.
NOW AT THUNDER HAWK, S.
Visit at Bronson, Morningside and
Other Places Enroute—Miss Craw
ford's Hills and Valleys.
Thunder Hawk, S. D., April 20tli.
Dear Review:
As so many of our friends wished
to hear from us, I take the oppor.un
ity of writing to our dear p.spor. We
left home April 20th, after bidding
many of our friends goodbye, for a
trip to South Dakota an.l Montana, su
ing by the way of Bronson. Iowa, to
visit a few days at the homes of rela
tives, James and Marion Horr The
afternoon of our departure was very
rit'iiy. Goose lake was full of duclcs
that flew up and lighted elsewhere as
the train was passing. We were met
at the depot by James Horr. who con
veyed us in his auto to his pleasant
home. Saturday evening after supper
Mr. and Mrs. Marion Horr and I autoed
to Sioux City, a distance of 15 miles,
where we did some trading. From
Morningside we had paved streets for
live miles to the city. The street cars
and autos compel one to be on the
lookout constantly in driving a car.
We got back at 11 p. m.
On Sunday we partook of a lovely
Kaster dinner prepared by Miss Carrie
Patton and Mrs. M. A. Horr at James
Horr's home and in the afternoon we
autoed to Graceland cemetery at
Morningside, where Mrs. .lames Horr
is buried. This is a lovely cemetery
and kept up in fine condition. We left
Hronson Monday afternoon, going by
auto in company with James Horr and
Mrs. M. A. Horr, and spent a short
time around the city. At 7 p. m. we
took the Milwaukee train and went
right into the sleeping car, where we
spent a comfortable night and got up
greatly rested just as we reached Ab
erdeen. We did not have to change
cars there as usual and went on to
Mcintosh, where we left the flyer for
a local train as the flyer did not stop
i3 at Thunder Hawk, our destination,
-f which was about the fourth station
,^^^'ftTiiW Mptmouh. The first afterttbori all
along the way coming to Bronson
some fields of small grain were up
[i and in other fields men were out work
I* ing in the rain. Tuesday morning we
had reached the level country of Da
kota, where one could see as far as
the eye could reach. We missed the
hills and the trees and the splendid
scenery of good old Iowa. It is tire
some to my eyes to look over that
level country. After we crossed the
Missouri river at Mobridge. passing
through the Indian reservation, there
were small houses, but very little land
under cultivation until we drew near
to Mcintosh. In and around Thun
der Hawk and Lemon there are large
fields and a great deal of stock rais
ing.
The farmers are busy getting their
small grain in. The spring is at least
two weeks later than at home, but the
farmers are prospering and all seem
happy and contented. We are both
feeling well and enjoying our visit.
With love to all,
Mr. and Mrs. S. Horr.
OELOIT ITEMS.
Wilie Rounds went to Nebraska last
Monday, where lie expects to work
this summer.
Mr and Mrs. F. H. Brogden went
to Minnesota last week. They have
rented a house near the lakes and
will spend the summer there.
.1. N. Turner and family have mov
ed into the house vacated by Jas.
Fisher, and Mrs. Wescott and fam
ily moved into the J. N. Turner house
which she purchased some time ago.
.Miss Hattie Mundt is visiting her
sister, Mrs. Henry Thompson.
Mrs. L| C. Hatch and Miss Alice
Hatch, of Dow City, visited with Mrs.
Dobson Sunday.
One day last week during the ab
sence of the mother, a little child of
Jas. Fisher forced its baby brother
to drink a quantity of kerosene. A
doctor was called and for a time its life
was despaired of, but it is much bet
ter at present and will soon be as well
as ever.
Mrs. Ehlers went to Spencer last
week to visit her sister who lives at
that place.
Albert Spence. who has been so
seriously ill with pneumonia, is now
recovering rapidly. The nurse who
has been caring for him returned to
her home Sunday.
Mrs. Eliza Worley is visiting at the
home or her daughter, Mrs. George
Prentiss, in Denison.
Several of our young people wefit
to Vail Sunday afternoon to attend
the ball game between the Deioit
team and the Vail team. The score
was six to four in favor of Deioit.
A new cement culvert was put. in
at the crossing near the Northwestern
section house last week.
The pupils in Mrs. Johnson's and
Miss Cole's rooms are preparing a
May Day program to be given on the
school grounds Thursday afternoon
May fourth.
The Denison quartet, assisted by
Miss Lehfeltd, reader and Miss Raiue
accompanist, will give an entertain
ment in the Deioit hull Friday night,
May 5th.
Al"'hh
gyWiv-ft
KIRON ITEMS.
Mr. and Mrs. Harlan Smith, of Ode
holt. made a short visit in Kiron on
Friday afternoon.
Ed Eckman left on Saturday after
noon for Omaha for a few days' stav.
Albert Johnson went to Omaha last
week to remain for an indefinite time.
Rev. A. Sahlstrom, of Mllaca, Minn.,
preached at the Free church Sunday
evening to a good sized audience. He
had been in attendance at the con
ference held in Ida county last week.
Several attended the Free church
state conference held in Ida county last
week and quite a number had planned
to go up Saturday and Sunday if the
roads and weather had permitted. A
good meeting was held, is the report
from those who attended.
Sheriff Cummings, of Denison, trans
acted official business in Kiron Satur
day last.
Herbert Johnson went into Chicago
Saturday evening with two cars of
cattle for the market.
Mr. and Mrs. Aug Linman came up
from Omaha last week and expect to
remain for several weeks.
Mrs. R. H. Morgan and children, of
Pisgah, arrived Saturday afternoon
for an over Sunday visit with relatives
in Kiron.
C. S. Billings and 13. E. Clauson, to
gether with W. R. Sherman, of Ar
thur, autoed to Lake City the first of
the week to attend to some business
matters.
Alfred Larson, who has been suffer
ing with the auto fever for some time,
took a permanent cure last week by
the purchase of a fine Chalmers car.
John Tellgren returned home on
Thursday from a two weeks' stay at
the hospital in Ida Grove, where he
underwent an operation.
M. R. Sherman and Mel Ellis autoed
over from Arthur to attend to busi
ness matters Thursday afternoon.
Guy Eckman accepted the clerkship
in the Norelius department establish
ment and we predict that after being
schooled into the mysteries of the
mercantile details, with the ability he
has, will make an efficient clerk.
Grandpa Lindblad, who in the com
ing November will celebrate his one
hundredth birthday, autoed to town
twice last week to look after minor
business and call at the homes of his
two daughters. For his age he is re
markably strong and spry.
•Mm II. Hollander, who has lieen
ailing for some time, went to Sioux
City last week to receive treatment
for the betterment of her health at
a hospital.
Mrs. J. A. Stolt, of Kulm, N. D„ is
spending a couple of weeks visiting
relatives and friends in and around
Kiron. They have resided at Kulm
ever since leaving this locality, but
recently disposed of their property at
that place and will look up a new lo
cation.
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Lindquist and
son, Roy, and his wife came back to
Kiron last week from their winter's
stay in California, looking and feeling
fine. Their return trip was made
through Texas.
John Windquist is having a modern
home erected on his farm one mile
south of town, which we understand,
when completed, will be occupied by
one of his sons.
Rev. Frank Lavine, of Des Moines,
on his way to Arthur to attend the
Free church conference, stopped off
at Kiron for a visit Wednesday and
Thursday. On Wednesday evening i»e
preached at the local church.
Lillian Engberg went to Minnea
polis last week, where she will visit
acquaintances for a short time.
At the home of Nels Bergman north
west of town a pair of twins were
welcomed on Sunday, April 23d. Nels
and wife are receiving congratulations
from their numerous friends.
Everett Norelius is carrying his
right arm in a sling. He received a
break in the arm while at Ida Grove
last Thursday.
The Town Beautiful Movement. No2.
This is an age of tourists and tour
ing. People keep their eyes open as
they pass through towns, anxious to
see what refinement and civic spirit
they can find. A town that beautifies
its public streets and has attractive
residence grounds draws interest from
all over a state.
Towns ought to take the greatest
pains to beautify the streets through
which this stream of motor travel is
passing, also to clean up neighborhoods
through which railroad tracks run.
When motorists find dilapidated build
ings, ill kept grounds, stables decor
ated with circus posters, etc., they
carry away a disagreeable impression.
The view from the railroad car is
usually one of tumbled down chicken
coops, piles of ashes and rubbish.
Property owners perhaps say to them
selves that the strangers that pass by
won't know who it is that keeps such
a looking place. All the same they
know the name of the town.
Many towns, realizing the importance
of the effect produced on travelers,
take pains to make little park spots
near railroad stations and along main
streets. It is astonishing what a change
can be made in a dingy square by
planting a few trees and shrubs.
Every town should have a committee
to look specially after the appearance
of these arteries of travel. The owners
of property abutting on them should
he urged to co-operate in a general
clean-up and beautlfication movement.
If a railroad won't clean the rubbish
out of its right of way, the townspeo
ple could better afford to do it them
selves than let it remain.
Trf^: DENISON REVIEW
THIS WEEK'S NEWS THIS WEEK, NOT NEXT WEEK.
DENISON, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 1916.
Never Too Old to Learn.
Radical Views of Two Rich Farmers are Changed by Forceful Object Lesson.
Copyright 1916 by Edward Allen.
While gathering the data on which my previous article was based I had
the good fortune to be materially assisted in my work by one nf the prime
movers in the campaign referred to. His name is Hughes, and he is a real
merchant in every sense of the word. l!ut, even so, he is human like the rest
of us he has a hobby and a stock story.
llis hobby is Marred Plymouth Rocks and his stock story is about how
one Marnes. at one time the most obstinate mail-order buyer in the commun
ity. was captured and led into the camp of the home guard. Here is how he
told it to me.
llariics." he said, "has been trading with me off and on for the past ten
years. When he had money it was mostly 'off,' but when crops were poor and
times hard, he always 'favored' me with his trade. It was 'off' when we
.started our campaign.
"It was going on well towards a month after we opened up before I got
a good chance to invite him up to our exhibit room. He didn't want to go
vaid it would be no use. that 'I've done all the comparative investigating I
need to prove where 1 can buy the cheapest, and as long as I pay you fellows
here what I owe you 1 guess I've got a right to buy my goods where I please'.
It didn't set well, him saying that to me, so 1 thought it would be a good time
to say a few things to him I had been wanting to tell him for a mighty long
time.
"I said 'Look here, Harnes. you've been a customer of mine for a good
many years off and on, and I've been a mighty handy pro]) for you to lean on
a good many times. Of course it is your privilege to buy your stuff where
you want to but it don't seem just fair to us fellows here for you to send your
money away to buy tilings when we know you can buy as cheap, or cheaper,
from us. You have three children, i'.arnes, going to the high school here in
town that I pay special district taxes to help support I help to keep up the
city government of this town from which you receive certain definite benefits
that don't cost you a cent and if anything comes up to help somebody out
that is sick or poor, either in town or in the country, I'm always called on to
chip in. and 1 always do. Xow. I'arnes. I want to ask you a plain straight
lYom-the-shoulder question. As an hottest, self respecting citizen, don't you
think this element of personal service I render you and every other patron of
my store, and for which 1 make no charge, should entitle me to even a little
the best of it in competition with a conccrn in Chicago that don't give a tink
er's damn for you or for anything you are interested in beyond the dollar in
your pocket?'
"Putting it to him that way rather stumped him for a bit, but after
cudgeling his brain for a minute or two jn a vain effort to think oi ,something
A Si. say in support of the stand hfr he a^swereit.^Welil^l^lbn't'know
but maybe you're right.' «I knew I had him going then and I said. 'Well,
Jiarnes, none of us fellows want any the best of it. All we ask is an even
break on a dollars and cents basis, so if you really think that maybe I'm right
about what I said, I want you to come with me up to the exhibit rooms and
convince yourself bv actual comparisons which offers you the most real value
for your money, the mail-order house or your home merchant.'
"I think Uarnes must have had just a little strain of mule in him. because
it took me just two hours to move him two blocks. And when I finally did
get him there I sure found him some hard nut to crack. It was worth the ef
fort though, because when he left the rooms that afternoon he went out a
full fledged member of the league and ever since has been one of the hardest
home-trade lighters in the county."
There area good many people such as liar ties scattered around over the
country. Prejudice and ignorance prevent them from serving their own best
interests.
At the conclusion of the successful campaign conducted by the mer
chants of his town to head off mail-order business, Hughes put his store on
practically a cash basis carried no open accounts and sold goods only for
cash or interest bearing notes. Upon questioning him as to the effect of the
change on his trade, he told me that he had not lost as many customers as fie
had feared, and his competitors had hoped, he would. "Nine men out of ten,"
he said, "are amenable to reason, and when you put the matter up to such a
man in the right light and show him. as you can. that credit is a commodity
the same as sugar and wheat, he is generally willing to pay for it."
"A man of this type, an old customer of mine," he went on to say, "came
in the store one day shortly after I had adopted the new system and bought a
hill of goods amounting to about three hundred dollars. When he got the
stuff loaded on his wagon he casually remarked, 'you can book that, Hughes,
till after harvest.' He had been doing that for a good many years and he
thought, guess, didn't have the nerve to enforce my new rule with him.
'"I didn't answer him right awav. but while he was getting his traps to
gether my brain was doing a marathon. You see the man was perfectly good
for the bill, one of the richest men in the county, and I just naturally did hate
to call him. I did though.
I "Now to make the point of this clear to you I will have to tell you that I
am worth upwards of a hundred thousand dollars and can borrow up to
$5000 on my personal note from any bank in the county. I knew that Will
knew this—Will' was the man's name—and I quickly decided to use it as a
means to show him the true value of a credit term. So instead of saying any
thing to him I stepped into my office and made out a note for $100 payable to
him and due in three months without interest. When I got back he was just
about ready to drive off. I said, Will. I'm sorrv, but 1 can't carry you for
that bill. It's not a question of your being good for it you're good for a
dozen such bills, but that's not the point. I've made a rule to sell only for
cash or note and I'm going to stick to it. Tt's purely a business principle,
Will, and if you'll let me I'll explain, or rather, demonstrate it to you.' As I
expected, he went straight up was going to unload the stuff and never buy
another cents worth from me if his credit wasn't good. F.ut after a bit I got
him calmed down enough to listen to my proposition. said, 'Will, here is
my note made out to you for $100, dut in three months, without interest now
I want you to take it down to any bank here in town and try to sell it at par
see if any of them will give you $100 for it today. If you can cash it for $J00
net, I will not only make you a present of it, but I will carry your account as
long as you wanf me to without interest. If you can't, if you lind you have to
discount it in order to cash it that it is not really worth $100 today, bring it'
back to me and then sign a note for these goods payable October 1st at S per
cent. Is it a bet?'
"The novelty of the proposition, aided and abetted by a judicious applica
tion of "bull," finally got his goal and he took me up. In about half an hour
he came back and said, 'Let's go get a drink you win.'"
.»•
.j.
WEST SIDE ITEMS.
.•
.} «J
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Sievers were
passengers to Omaha Friday.
Mrs. John Luckhardt celebrated her
birthday Sunday surrounded by her
children and many friends.
Wm. Rohde, of Randolph, Neb., is
visiting his sister, Mrs. J. D. Schmidt.
Miss Kathryn Newland spent over
Sunday at her home in Galva.
Hans Schleuter, of Carroll, arrived
Monday for a visit with his children
here.
Miss Clara Evers, of Denison, is
visiting at the Eniil Evers home.
Mrs. Chas. Bollen and daughter, Jul
ianna, of Denison. spent Thursday and
Friday visiting at the Aug. Voss home.
Mrs. H. Hansman and daughters.
Misses Lena and Elsie were Carroll
shoppers Saturday.
Chas. .Martens left Thursday for
Bancroft. Neb., where he will open
up a saloon on May 1st.
Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Stareck went
to Omaha Sunday. Mr. Stareck re
turned from Omaha Friday and Mrs.
Stareck went to Atlantic for a visit
at the Frost home.
Mrs. August Richter celebrated her
birthday Sunday. A number of la
dies were present to spend the after
noon.
Miss Leona Firth, who teaches near
Aspinwall, visited over Sunday at the
Eniil Evers home.
Mrs. E. J. Peters, who has been
quite ill, is regaining her strength
again.
Mrs. Henry Munnn was a caller in
Denison Wednesday.
Henry Eift'ert. sold 64 head of hogs
to Aug Voss Wednesday for Sl^c.
Sheriff Cummings, of Denison, trans
acted business here Thursday.
On Saturday the girls of the Domes
tic Science department had a sale in
the Kelley building. Home made pie,
cake, ice cream, candy and sandwitch
es were sold. Although the weather
was very disagreeable, the people did
their best. The things made by the
sewing department were also on ex
hibition. The girls were very much
satisfied, having taken in $50.30
Chas. Mielk was in Omaha on busi
ness Wednesday.
Harry Gill, of Chicago, was here
Wednesday buying horses. He pur
chased fiver
Geo. Haris, who is staying at the
"Old Fttlks' Home" Woone, is via
itlng AVest Side friends this weelc.
Miss Pearl Nickelsen celebrated her
birthday Wednesday. She entertain
ed a number of little girls at a party
after school Wednesday evening.
Irwin Wilson, Gus Brockman and
Gus Detlefs were passengers to Omaha
Sunday.
On Thursday Rev. K. Fauth baptiz
ed the children of Mr. and Mrs. Chas.
Schiiman. The children baptized were
Evelyn Johanna. Lillian Sophia, Ar
nold Nickolas and Eugene Otto.
Mrs. A. W. Stareck passed another
milestone Monday May 1st.
«fr. "fr
RICKETTS ITEMS
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Kuhlman and Mr.
and Mrs. T. .T. Minister attended the
funeral of Mr. Kuhlman's father at
the Mapleton church Tuesday. The
remains were laid to rest in the Sol
dier cemetery. Rev. Welking, of Maple
ton, officiating.
Art Jacobsen, of Mapleton. had a
serious attack of rheumatism the first
of the week while paying a visit to
relatives here.
Charlie Jacobsen was a business
caller here Thursday.
Messrs. Sturges and Mains, of Char
ter Oak, were callers here Thursday
morning.
Misses Rose Mundt and Edna Baak
visited friends in Charter Oak Friday
evening.
Bill Groth, Bill Bielow and Herman
Moltman were Charter Oak callers
Friday evening.
Mr. and Mrs. A. F. Baak visited in
Charter Oak Thursday.
Herman Baak and Fred Eck were
Charter Oak callers Saturday morn
ing.
Miss Ethel Weed visited with her
sister, Mrs. Herman Preulis, over Sun
day.
Miss Nell McGrath visited with
Mrs. T. J. Minister the past week.
Miss Esther Miller was shopping in
Denison Thursday.
Miss Hazel Bieles visited with her
sister, Ethel, over Sunday.
Mrs. Hugo Rix has been on the sick
list the past weelc.
Hugo Rix has had a painful finger
the past few days, due to a little acci
dent which occurred Wednesday while
carpentering. Herman Maltman hit
Mr. Rix on the finger with a hammer.
Bill and Max Maas and Henry Bock
leman were business visitors in Ida
Grove a few days last week.
Mrs. John Beliler and babies visited
at the Jerry Cervenny home over Sun
day.
Mr. and Mrs. Claus Munster, of
Kingsley, visited with relatives here
over Sunday.
Quite a little excitement prevailed
Monday morning when it was discov
ered that the Green Hay office had been
broken into. Only a few articles were
taken, but as the office has been rob
bed more than once efforts are being
made to find the thief.
Mr. Brunn, of the Sackse & Brunn
company, of Cherokee, was a business
visitor here Monday.
A question for country schools to de
bate: Which has done most for man
kind, tho wheelbarrow or the auto
mobile?
If you know of any
news kindly hand or
phone the Review News
department.
No. 18
SUNMOD BY
GRIN REAPER
Mrs. Claus Bielenberg, a Most Estim
able Lady of Schleswig, Called
to Her Reward Wednesday
BERNHARD REINCKE IS BURIED
Remains Shipped From Clarinda, at
Which Place He Died April 23d—
Leaves Wife, Four Children.
Schleswig, May 2—(Special to the
Review)—On Wednesday morning, Ap
ril 26th, the news spread through
Schleswig and vicinity that the Grim
Reaper had summoned an esteemed
lady, Mrs. Claus Bielenberg.
On Thursday Mrs. Bielenberg com
plained of not feeling well but did
her work as usual, but after dinner
a doctor was called who thought there
was nothing serious, but along in the
night she became worse, and at 6:50
Wednesday morning she breathed her
last.
Margaret Stubbe was born Janu
ary 21st, 1841, at Krondlnzen Kroog,
Schleswig Holstein, Germany, remain
ing there until the year 1863, when she
in company with her brother, came
to America, settling at Scott county,
Iowa. In the year 1864, on March
1st, she was united in marriage to
Mr. Claus Bielenberg, of Scott county.
They lived there until 1872, when
they came to Otter Creek township,
Crawford county, and settled on a
farm. In 1902, they moved to Schles
wig to spend the remainder of their
lives. To this prominent old couple
were born eight children, Henry, Fred
erick, Adolph, Claudius, Julius, Rosa
now Mrs. Fred Fredericksen, Dora,
now Mrs. Fritz Reinking and Martha,
now Mrs. Carl Wellendorf. They all
reside near Schleswig.
Mrs. Bielenberg is survived by her
husband, her eight children, one sis
ter. Mrs. Peter Hamann, of Schles'
wig, and thirty-two grand children.
Funeral services were held at til
home Saturday at 1 p. m., the Rev.
R. Wetzeler officiating. Interini
was made at the Morgan cemetery/^
Bernliard Relncke was
in Germany, May 4th,. 1856, attd c:
ro this country June 1st, 1-873, sett'
in Michigan and where he remalnM'
for about nine months when he came
to Iowa.
He was united in marriage Septem
ber 8, 1881, to Miss Minqle Moeller.
To this union were born five chil
dren. Herbert, of Anchorage, Alaska,
Robert, of Armour, S. O., Harold, of
Schleswig and Mrs. Fred Hansohn, of
Deioit, the other dying in infancy.
He* became ill and was sent to the
hospital at Clarinda, May 14th, 1894,
where death came as a release on Apr.
23, 1!)16.
The remains were shipped to this
place and funeral services were held
first at the Harold Reincke home, then
at the Immanuel church by Rev.
Schwenk and interment was made in
the Grant township cemetery.
He is survived by his four children
and his wife, who have the sympathy
of all in their bereavement.
SOLDIER ITEMS.
Carl Wilkens purchased a new car
last week.
Miss Loretta Murphy was a caller
at the Albin Carlson home Friday.
Lloyd Ridgeley worked for John
Schrader a few days last week.
W. J. Lacej( and family, J. E. Owens
and family and Miss Lottie Owens
spent Sunday at the home of Mrs.
Amanda Owens.
Mrs. J. P. Murphy, daughter. Loret
ta. and son, James, were callers In
the Owens home Sunday afternoon.
Albin Carlson autoed to Denison on
Monday to visit with relatives. On
his return he was accompanied by his
father-in-law. Matt Wells, who will
spend several days with his daughter.
Misses Lucretia Maun and Margaret
Murphy and Lloyd Ridgeley were call
ers at the H. E. Dorale home Sunday.
H. E. Dorale and daughters, Emma
and Elsie, and Mr. and Mrs. H.
Schwarz and daughter, Elsie, autoed to
Charter Oak Thursday.
H. Fitzpatrick, of Danbury, was a
caller at the J. H. McGrath home Sun
day.
James Ridgeley and son, Lloyd,
were callers at the C. Baker home on
Sunday.
Fred, Albert and Richard Dorale
spent Sunday with the Schoenfeldt
boys.
Henry Fitzpatrick and Lazerus
Jones, of Danbury. were business vis
itors at the Jas. McGrath home Fri
day.
Harry Walker, of near Danbury, was
a business caller at the McGrath
home Thursday evening.
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Eggen and fam
ily spent Sunday at Otto Teut's.
Fred Thiedelman was a Sunday vis
itor at Fred Schoenfeldt's.
The little daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Otto Teut was baptized Sunday.
Mr. and Mrs. John Else and little
daughters were Sunday visitors at the
Louie Johannsen home.
Mr. and Mrs. H. Schwingdorf and
family were Schleswig visitors Satur
day.
Mr. and Mrs. H. E. Dorale and daugh
ters, Lula and Esther, spent Sunday
at the Louie Dorale home.
Miss Esther Eggen spent Saturday
with her aunt, Mrs. Otto Teut.
1
1
si
k't
vj
N3
