ALBU QUERQUE MORNING J URN AL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
fv.KI VKXTH YEAR,
vol.. - 'Vii; L
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW, MEXICO, WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 191,67
Dully by Carrlrr or .Mull, Otto
a Mouth. SRigln CofilM, 04
GERMAN ma
CAUSES CONGERN
IT WASHINGTON
Administration Officials Feat
Reply Will Not Be Frank
Agreemnt to Demands of
United States,
KAISER'S EMBASSY IS
STILL OPTIMISTIC
Believe Submarine Command
ers Are Already in Receipt
of Orders to Modify Meth
ods of Warfare,
Washington, May 2. Two weeks
have passed since the United State
dispatched to Germany its note de.
mantling that an abandonment of
nrosent method of submarine war
fare Immediately bo declared and ef
THE WEATHER
THK WKATHKR lOHKCAsT.
Denver, May 2..w MexU-o:
Wednesday fair, preceded by rain
northeast portion; Thursday fair.
E
IT
LOCAL WEATn ER RF-PnTlT
For twenty-four houra, ending at
p. in. yesterday.
Maximum temperature, 60 degrees;
minimum, 30 decreed; range, 30 de
gree; temperature at 6 p. m., 49 de
gree; south wind; partly cloudy;
trace of rain and Know.
CITY BANK CLEARINGS.
Yesterday
170,2m. 57.
minister, at the reopening of the sit
ting of the budget committee of the
relohstag today, said the. government
had not yet reached a decision with
regard to the situation that had
arisen from the American note to
(iermany regarding Germany's sub
marine campaign. As soon as the
imperial chancellor returned from
headcpiarters, Herr von Jagow added,
he would give the committee defi
nite information.
The foreign minister said the gov
ernment, in view of the Importance
of the American ijuestion, would have
been glad to make u statement to
day regarding the status of the prob
lem, but that for the reason stated
this was Impossible.
MEXICAN RAILROADS
ROOSEVELT
IS SURE TO BE
G.O.P. NOMINEE
Favorite Sons Rapidly Being
Discarded to Find Man Be
lieved Able to Defeat Wood-
row Wilson,
COLONEL PREFERRED BY
MANY MACHINE LEADERS
Remarkable Political Develop
ment Is Call for Man Who
Formerly Split Party as One
Best' Able to Reunite It,
Five Zeppelins
Again Raid Coast
of Great Britain
,RY MORNINR JOURNAL IMCIA1. LKAalO WIRaJ
London, May 3 (12:15 a. in.) Flvo
hostile airships attacked the north
east roast of Knglund and the south
east coast of Hcot land last night.
The official announcement on the
raid say that the movement of the
raiders appeared uncertain, adding:
"A few bombs were dropped In
Yorkshire, but there are no details re
garding the casuultie or damage."
FUNSTON'S ORDER
IRRaCIAk eoRRMRONORNCR TO mornins journal)
tVhlnirtnn M:iv 2 -Tile coming
AGAIN IN OPFRATION ? presidential rnmmtign refuses to et-
j j, m . Itle down. The bird of promise will
i.y morn,. JOU.NA,. .-caw itA.. w.wi j t alight, but circles uhout high in
I.' I Piiuo Mnv llolieml I In el Ml . t he heaVCHst. ,
commander of the .Innt-ex nnrrlson. The politicians ure craning their I
ftvted, and tonight the state depart-1 today received word from Torreon I necks like the Londoner with Zeppo
ment still was without any definite In-1 thnt ,, .hp Mexican Central Unitis. unablt to determine whether
formation indicating that the demand!..,.:,..,,..., i,plwp(.n Torreon and Aguas.the bird is about to thrown dow n a
would be complied with,
As the days go by and no reply
comes from Berlin, and Ambassador
Orard sends no word regarding tho
attitude of the German government,
nn air of grave concern is beginning
to manifest itself, in administration
circles. Privately no attempt is made
to conceal a contrary feeling and this
feeling Is certain to become more pro
nounced unlesg some definite news Is
forthcoming overnight.
Argument Exported.
It Is felt here that the very length
of time which hag been consumed by
the Orman government In preparing;
a reply In itself Indicates that the!
communication will not take the shape
of a simple response to tho direct and j
clear-cut Issue raised In the American)
note. It Is feared that the reply is
likely to assume an argumentative
character, which can scarcely he re
garded as meeting the requirements
ef the United .Slates, - , ... , '
r. ,.t,.. .:u ......, t
riimms in i.iiih- itiii.it vttwi
at the German embassy, however, con
tinue to express themselves us being
positive that Germany will tnuke con
cessions to the United States which
Vill prevent the breaking off of diplo
matic, relations. They say tho Berlin
government has been advised that the
Vnlted States meunt Just what it said
In Its note and was not prepared to j
enter into any negotiations on the
Cntientes will he completed tomot'x j bomb on them or on the other crowd,
tow, establishing direct eommunlca-i Oldtlmers on the republican side
tion between Juarez, Mexico City and j liken the situation to the preeonven
Guadalajura for the first time since tion campaigns of 1878 and 1SSS. In
Villa evacuated Zaoutecas in hi re-j both years there was a string of fa
treat north in June, 1915. The re-jvorite sons. In each a compromise
pairs Included restitution of the big ; candidate was chosen, Hayes in 1 ST6
bridge over the Plcardias canyon land Harrison in 18S8. The former
south of Torreon.
FRENCH DRIVE
S
GERMAN
ROM
FIRST TRENCHES
Considerable Ground Is Gained
From Teutons at Several
Points by Strong Offensive
of Jottre's Forces,
! HORHINO JOURNAL aMtCIAL LIAMO WIRII
Paris. May 2 (12:15 p. m.). In
'had hard sledding, and the election
!was in doubt for weeks after the bnl
j lotlng, and in fact was not decided
: until In February of the following
!year, when the famous 8x, commis
Islon made Its report, seating Hayes.
Then he won only by one vote in the
I electoral college.
Harrison had it easier in 18S8. The
tariff issue elected him, but the inner
ent weakness of the man as a leader
came out In 1892 when the Minneapo
lis convention renominated him.
Grover Cleveland, running for the
third time, bowled him over easily.
The republican leaders now say
that It is unsafe, judging from these
two instances, to take a candidate
who is not known and adaptable to a
largo portion of the party from the
ent they rule out
Borah, Burton,
Cummins, Kstn brook, Fairbanks and
j Sherman, in alphabetical order. They
iare too weak at the start, and the
! candidate against them is too well
' known and too well entrenched to
GOVERNOR CARLSON
WINS IN CONVENTION
Y NORHINR JOUTNAL aaciA,i LIAaa WIRII
Pueblo, Colo., May 2. My a vote of
4 to 236, Governor Carlson was today
elected delegatc-at-large to the re
publican national convention at Ch
icago, over Kilgene Urubb of Gnrfle't!,
Denver county voted 4 for Calson
und 88 for Grubb.
other delegates-at-lurge elected
were: Philip 11. Stewart, Kl Paso:
Karl Snyder, Denver; Charles V.
Waterman, Denver.
Delegates were elected ' from the
the Second district: Fred n. lioof,
Pueblo; Daniel Taylor, I.as Animas.
Fourth district delegates are: John
A. Kwing, Lake; Bulklcy Wells, San
Miguel.
Dr. Hubert Work, of Pueblo, was
elected national committeeman.
The feature of the convention was a
contest In the Denver delegation
which resulted in the vote of that del- j
egutlon I cing polled individually amid i
scenes of extraordinary disorder
TO ELIMINATE
BORDER RAIDERS
IS UNCHANGED
Carranza's Offer to Put 25,
000 Men in Northern Mex
ico to Hunt Down Bandits
Conditioned on Evacuation,
FIRST CHIEF MUST
SHOW WHAT HE CAN DO
Pershing Not to Return North
of Border Until Ability Is
Shown to Restore and Keep
Order,
Washington, May 2. Development
here In the Mexican situation tonight
awaited advices from General Scott
as to his further conferences with
General Obregon at Kl Paso. The war
department had received no report
The delegates at large to the i epub-jfrom lh' clliPf laff "l a lute K-rventlonlsts
llcan national convention at Chicago ,10Ur-
were not Instructed to support any Administration officials declared
particular candidate. , Mho situation to be unchanged In any
! j respect after President Wilson and
TURCT 111 I Ft") AMH "is cabinet had conferred at the reg-
I HULL , I L. L- L. L rlU
that any movement of Mexican troop
in the region where tho American
force lias been operating ha been
the subject nf instant suspicion by the
American press and also of military
reports to the war department. In
addition, they point out the increasing
danger of clashes between the two
force should both press their cam
paigns against the bandits simultane
ously, The Melean Argument.
If the American forces were with
drawn, the Mexican spokesmen argue,
the crushing out of brigandage would
become a matter of personal pride
with the Carranxa, commanders,
whereas, It Is now a matter of compe
tition and possible Jealousy which
would Itself lead to clashes.
Mr. Arredondo has forwarded to
General Carrunxu a report of his con
ference yesterday with Secretary lous
ing, when he renewed his arguments
for withdrawal. He was told then
that diplomatic, dlsousmon would not
l,e taken up untlbthe F.I Paso confer
ewj. wa concluded. j
Protest Against Interpreter.
A protest against the continued em-
ployment of the Interpreter who has
been aiding Generals Scott and Fun
ston at their conferences with General
Obregon was received t the embassy
today from Cqnsul Garcia, the de fac
to government representative In Kl
Paso and interpreter for General Ob
regon, The nature of the complaint
was not revealed and Mr. Arredondo
did not communicate it to either the
state or war departments. According
to the dispatch, Henry Ames, an
American who has long been engnged
III business In Mexico, has been Inter
preting for tho American officers.
Secretary l-nnslng and other m'fl
clals were asked today If they had re
ceived Information that so-called in-
In Kl Paso and eW-e
w here along the border were unusual
ly active during the progress of the
military conference. They replied that
no new Indications of Mich activity
had been received.
Officials declined to comment on re-
lilnr Tliniidiiv mi..tinir M.iereturv
4 BADI Y 'IN IHRFDl ' "M "l"r ht "eneral Fun-,ort rron' that customs eol
t UHL'UI mjUULf , i. , ..... ,,,! lectors on the border had received ne
new
IfAinmh,- r,,iH..r M.,i..n , ill 'r,t,is as to snipmeius or animuni-
,RV MoaNIN JOURNAL RRICIAL LBABID WIRI I ' ... .ttlnnM lit H ,11 m II lilt Ion into MexieO.
Trenton N. J.. Mav 2 Three!1"00". ait "l me original purpose or :
workmen wete killed, four nroliahlv I expedition.
fatally injured and three others
slightly hurt late today by an explo
sion thut demolished a big depart
ment of the Chandler Oil Cloth com
pany's plant at Yardville, near this
city. Several adjoining structures
were Wrecked und nearby stores and
dwelling houses were badly damaged
by the force of the blast.
Two buildings of the oil cloth plant
were destroyed and the other four
badly damaged. The explosion is be
lieved to have been caused by a spark
from the machinery igniting a large
quantity of gaol)ne. i Twenty-five
employes were at the plant when the
accident occurred. The dead are:
PKTEIt WU.UAMH, of Yardville.
(HARRY TAYLOR, of Yardville.
KDWAJtD FOKKRU, of Yardville.
subject of submarine warfare until (Strong attack on German positions j tuke a cnance that tnolr ..iieged vir-
present methods had been abandoned.
It is felt in German circles thst
fiermany certainly will abandon op
erations objectionable to toet'nited
southeast of Fort Douaumont, on thejtuos mfty be pninted in such glowing
Verdun front last night, the French coiors thnt the people will make their
captured a first line German trench I nameg household words In three
r,00 metres long, the war office an-j onthH
States, at leas, nendim, negotiations i mmed this afternoon, and took 100; H(fiIlft leader.
on the subject. In this connection, it P''tiers. .. (lf i The leaders agree that it must be
i pointed -out that there even is a West of the river M"' "" 'somebody who will begin the offen-
pnssiblllty that Instructions to thi allllerl,COn:im,l o!e on Wilson from the start and
end already have been issued to sub. '"B"t from the Avo.ourt n glon up obviou(ilVi ,n(,v 811V tMf
marine commanders, there not hav- 1 8 nBm,,j iv,t',ll bp impossible If the party has to
ing been reported during the last few;. J "e ,wa", an P"t in halt of the campaign explain
"ay attacks which could be com
plained of. It ts reiterated that all
messages from the Berlin foreign of-
nee cleany indicate that Uermany is,,. ,.(, , 3f,o metres
most anxious to preserve friendly re- The t).xt )f ,he statpmpBt follows:
wni nun me Li o, tea r.iaie.
Heretofore, Mr. Gerard has kept
Secretary Lansing and President Wil
son fully advised not only in regard
to official developments but In regard
o the probabilities in advance of
governmental action and court gossip
as well, in thiB crisis he has mado
no report whatever respecting his con
ferences with Emperor William.
Of course, it is realized that the ab
wnce of Mr. Gerard from Berlin
probably without his code hook, and
his probable reluctance to entrust
confidential communications to the
Herman military telegraphs, may
Iwve accounted for the absence of
Sports. High officials tonight earn
ptly expressed the hope that u dis
patch from the ambassador would be
received by tomorrow,
Seerettiry Lansing had no infornia
'lon to lay before the cabinet at to
nay's meeting and the situation wa
discussed only briefly. It was the
first time in weeks that the secretary
had rpa.nd at a session of the cab
bie'. H.rhnui'a portfolio filled with re
!"'! e,i,l memoranda.
ing who the candidate Isf
On the other hand, they
cannot
i'v DF.CIiAHFS
It E PLY XOT HEADY
"t un. via
m -H.-rr
Ixindnn, May
von Jagow, the
I (4 p.
foreign
in their attack on April i'i ana .
on the north slope of Dead Man's hill,
the iTencn ' and ' on 11 leader, who Is guiltless, of
nmr a front of about 1.000 metres anu , " ,
Ahumipinr 'ennra n r& , iivi men ill
! sight, Theodore Roosevelt and Justice
. ,i. u... ,,v,n n tuirnrise at-!1-" f" ''"gnis.
p,oo,n ot ' ,,.., The fact of the matter is that a
tack upon one of our mailer position
rwt bombarded ers otherwise known as .'organisation
in tne i n.impHKe m KoOHPVel, ,nls timPi Th(.y
Vn-nZPfmnne strong German! want, him becm.se the colonel can
In the Afc"n,'e 8 ' he depended on to take the offensive
XM ry activ- and keep ,t from the Jump.
itv continued last night from the re-! Jn liz ne nouea tne repumicans,
gL of Avocou t as far as Dead Man', j had both parties on his back and yet
f Y1 01 A 0 ho kept them from defending them-
hill- . . .... 1 ., , ,1 nf nl..n,l.n Thnt
"Further Information wings i " "i' l"
Xew t'ltlt f at Ojlnaga.J'
Presidio, Tex., May 2. Jose Cepeda
has been appointed to succeed Col.
Jose llojas as commander-ln-ehlef of
the Ojinaga garrison. .Four hundred
ruen are reported on the way to o.l-naga.
knowledge that the actions conducted j campaign gave the old guard.
! !' S,h. 29th and 30th of April, like Penrose, Crane, Townsen,
m en
Townsend of
on the northern slope of Dead Mans Michigan and a host of others such
hill resulted in our getting possession i deadly fear of having to face Moose
of about 1 000 meters of first position volt again that they want him ore are
trenches of the enemy for a depth willing to take him in order to have
of between 300 and 600 metres, this dynamic force on their side,
"East of the Meuse yesterday shooting shrapnel, high explosives
French troops delivered a spirited at-land asphyxiating gases at the opposi-
tack southeast of Fort Douaumoiu uoumon,
occupied a first line German u
extending about 500 metres and at the
HHme time took about 100 prisoners.
"There have been artillery ex
changes in the Woevre'
I AST WORD NOT YET
- SPOKEN ON SUBMARINES
lie Day in Congress
SENATE.
i. Min-im debate on rural credits
mil.
vii-e President Marshall sent the
naval affuir, committee a letter from
Hear Admiral Jlrtidley A. Fike, criti
cizing Secretary Daniel.
Arijiurned ai 5:40 p. m. to noon
"ednesdny.
What Hughes Men Say.
The more conservative republicans,
the fUleter type, the men of party
fealty who hnve not forgiven Roose
velt' bolt., want Justice Hughes.
I They picture him the Ideal candidate.
!They can see nothing to it but n romp
Into power with this man as ineir
leader. .
And Hughes does advertise, well.
mornino journal rcial itAHR wiri ! j e W118 a vote-get ter In Ne w York.
Merlin, May 2 (2:15 p. m., via I'n-.jU, lMpHBert ,he best element of the
don, 3:20 p. m.). "The last word has commllI1jtyy with a high-grade, clean,
not vet been spoken regarding the """ vigorous and effective administration.
Iswer to be submitted to the 1 nlte. lo Hnowed power on the stump when
! States," says. the well-informed Lokalj h( .pnt hetore tnp ,)00ple on his
I Anzciger. ' j racetrack gills. Again that national
I ' Other newspapers, including tne r. of ,9og when Taft was hav-
Morgenpost and the Vossisclie Ae,!jnK ft hard time with thn labor vote,
Hughe made a speech In Ohio wtitcn
IIOl'SE.
Resumed del ate on the agricultural
'all. I
P-issed annua! agricultural appro
priation bill carrying 124.500.000.
Conference report on legislative, ex
eetitive and Judicial appropriation bill
"feed to. i
J"nes hill to rovid a permanent
tlvil government ur Porto Hlco taken
"P for considerftiiiin.
Adjourned at l".:U p. m. to noon
ednesday. . ,
Zel-
tung, sav, however, inai ; -ations
at headquarters were carried
. ...v...r tua netnnl work or
to a poioi wn.T.tr ... -
proved the proper irritant, it was
mi,! rnttlnir. destructive snalysls of
writing the text of the reply may noW j vnilinm J. Bryan's proposal for cur
be begun. They point out that fur"MaiHng the trut. It turned the eyes
of the business worm on i.ryan um
chowed him up as the same olil im
practicable, dangerous dreamer of the
16 to 1 davs. It did mucn to smooin
Those who demand him say "Nomi
nate him and see." Those who op
pose, say "Let's not take a chance
on the whole campuign being damp
ened by having to make a warmed
nomination. Tuke Teddy now and
have done with uncertainty."
It is one of the most amazing facts
In political history that the man
who split tho republican parly as It
has not been split since Grant's
time Is looked upon to reunite it.
Over and over, the leaders drone
that Hughes will split the party, that
he Is no organization mnn, but Roose
velt will not only gve a strong ad
ministration fut strengthen the or
ganization. The secret of this odd
belief Is in the career of Roosevelt
at Washington. As president, he al
ways carried the fight to the opposi
tion. He never waited to be attacked.
Ho was lick the French general who
was told at tho Maine that the men
Were exhausted. "So are the tier
mans," he shouted, "attack."
Again they brought him word thut
the guns were short of ammunition.
"So are Germans' guns. Attack."
This was Roosevelt in the White
House. He attacked. He rushed the
enemy trenches and he fed his own
troops,
In Washington every newspaper
man believes In Roosevelt fervently
or disbelieves id him bitterly. F.very
congressman, every clerk, every scrub
woman, is for or against him with a
whole heart. This is certainly a trlb-
GALLES CALLED
Tl
1 MEXICO CITY
EOR CONFERENCE
Va I'lilliriwii itt Wlfllilruu'
1 I
There .was no Indication tonight of j
any change In the determination of
President Wilson not to accept any
propositi of the CmrrntiiMi government I
conditioned on the Immediate with
drawal of thn American forces in
Mexico. This element of the sugges
tions presented by General Obregon
ut the military conference nnd by F.ll
seo Arredondo, General Carrunza'
ambassador-designate here, has so far
proved a stumbling block, to an agree
ment for wider co-operation in the
bandit Chase, the object of Oeneral
.Scott's discussion with the War min
ister. Can ana Make Offer,
From Mexican sources It was
learned today that based upon the
immediate withdrawal of the Ameri
can troops, General Cariiinza has of-
ii-ieu IIHOUKII HIS IWU , rVil rni-omi I VID , MORNING JOURNAL RRBOtAL LRARID wirr)
to pluce an active army of 23,000 hien i Douglas, Ariz., May 2. Gen. P.
In northern Mexico a soon as the j Ellas Culle has been summoned to
Americans were withdrawn. The of- Mexico City by Venustlano Cnrranzit,
fer was ucc oinpiinled by assurances, It j head of the de facto government of
Is snld, thut more than half of this Mexico, for it conference which will
force would be so placed as to guar- terminate, friends of Cm lies say, In
antee border town from future bun-jthe present military governor of Ho
dit raids, while the remainder would iiora being divested of thut rank but
be Used In a vigorous uursull of ban- letoineil m crunni'iinder-ln-chlef of
(lit until the whole territory adjacent ! the military In Honorn.
to the border bad been absolutely This was learned today when It he
cleared of outlaws, emu,, definitely known In Mexican
l"i"0Hsul Not Accepted. circles that Adolfo de la lluerta, for
H was the condition of Immediate i some time first assistant In the li ens-
GENERAL SCOTT S i
DIPLOMACY ONCE !
MORE EFFECTIVE
FOR GOVERNMENT
American Chief of Staff Meets
Obregon in Secret and Two
Military Men Have Lunch
eon and Talk,
MEXICAN COMMANDER
FINALLY SEES LIGHT
Negotiations Take Form of
. Showing Friendship of Unit
ed States for Mexico' and
Necessity for Peace,
NEGOTIATIONS HTU.I,
MAKING I"! tOt. RIMS
...
El Paso, Tex., May S. At
o'clock tonight, eight hours afV
ter his conference with General
Obregon, General Scott handed
the following statement to the
Associated Press: ' '
"We are still conferring In ' a.
spirit of mutual good ; jvlll, und
hope to arrive at a solution that
will be satisfactory to both of our
governments. , There will be
nothing more" for publication."
This statement win signed
"obregon und Hcntt."
Will Be Divested of One Title
So That He May Be Consti
tutionally' Elected to Gover
norship of Sonora,
American withdrawal attached to the
offer, it Is understood, which led to
the Interruption of the El Puso con
ference whila Generals Scott and
Funston laid the situation before
President. Wilson. They had no pow
er to deal on that basis. There Is
nothing to Indicate that any such
power has been conferred upon them
In the additional Instruction sent by
Secretary linker at their request anil
after conferences with the president.
Wants to He Shown.
Officials still maintained silence to
day as to tho naturo of the now in
structions to General Scott. It is be
lieved, however, that he was author
ized to make It clear to General Obre
gon that while no proposal for lm
mediate withdrawal would be enter
tained, the Washington government,
would welcome a demonstration of
the intention nnd nbillty of the do
facto government to carry out its
program.
There Is reason to believe thut the
American officers now have uuthorlly
to make concessions In tho way of
limiting the none in which General
Pershing's forces will operate it tit 11 a
demonstration baa been made. Such
by
It
ute to the favor he managed to be- questions as mat or using Mexican
troo, ulso may be waived, tt Is un-
.i, deliberations in Herlin will ac
company the framing of the answer
These further deliberations doubtless
ht th Iyikal Anzeiger has in
mind, saying the last word has not S'pjth( )a,h n'f 'willfam Howard Taft to
been sposen. : the White ilouse.
Silcmv Embarrassing
London
Uiirell to H.igii. I
Mnv 2 (2:l m.)lt 's I
It is not necessary to say anything
7" ir' about the difficulty of getting Hughe
expected, says tne wnuus "' "I ! i,uo (he race. That has been debated
. ... ..f some
impers. mat ine i"'s"' - -
of the members of the Irish 1"lnU
tration. Including Augustine Rirrell,
first secretary for I.reland. and Sir
Matthew Nathon. undersecretary tJ
the lord lieutenant, will be announced
In the course of a few day-
over and over. The only answer Is
that Hughes cannot decide before
hand. He can say after it Is done
whether he will accept. This is the
resldum of opinion as to thpi much
mooted question, "Will Hughes run?"
stow on the crowd he selected for fa
vor. He used to take a selected group
of correspondents Into the White
House and simply make their hail
stand up by the frankness with which
he told of every move he was making
in th0 Japanese Imbroglio, In the fight
with the railroads, In the bitter battle
with the packers, and, in fact, with ev.
cry greut piece of work that came up
in his administration. He would read
them confidential foreign dispatches,
repeat conversations with ambassa
dors and put the selected few In
touch with tho whole. situation.
Danger! It never made the least
trouble because the correspondents
knew exactly how far they could go
in reproduction und they never failed
to sense the situation the president
wished them to. Hence it followed
that groups of newspaper men haled
him and other groups were with him.
Row Wll-on Stands.
Of Wilson It may be said w ith truth
that, starting with all the newspapers
in the land pulling for him, he will
end his first term without newspa
per friend on earth. All because of
temperament. It was Chauncey M.
Depew who said humorously at a din
ner In Washington not long ago that
Uenjaniln Harrison had the reputa
tion of being the coldest man ever
elected to the presidency up to his
(I unit una) !'
fleistood, if they embarrass the de
facto government In its domestic re
lations. The American army officials
are confident nf iheir ability to main
tain the shortened supply line shy mo
tor truck.
Just what would be required in the
way of a demonstration by the Mexi
cans Is not known. The production
of Villa's body or of positive proof
that he has ceused to be a factor In
the situation, through death or any
other cause, undoubtedly would
weigh with the' officials. The bandit
has been the only figure among the
outlaws of the border region who
could gather about him n force suf
ficient to menace the relations be
tween the two government becuuse
of the boldness of his operations.
It is understood,!, however, thut ut
the El Paso conference a broader
ground has been taken than the mere
question of Villa's elimination, und
that the establishment of permanent
relief from outlaw raid of any sort
Is what Is aimed ut in discussions with
General Obregon.
HcaKOii for Inactivity. '
In explaining General Carranaa's
reason for not taking immediate steps
toward further co-operation In the
pursuit of the bandits, his represent
atives here have pointed to the fact
ury department of Mexico, hud be.
appointed civil governor of Honor
lie Is faid to be en route to Sonora ut
this time to take office.
. General Callus will leave wit bin tli
next dav or two for El Paso via the
Ended States, It was learned late to
day. Intending to Join General obre
g(,n and accompany him south.
Callea displacement us governor
has been repeatedly denied both
It tm und other Mexican officials,
wus not until this afternoon that
grudging udinlsslon was made that
there was truth In the rumor whir
has persisted for several duyn. At the
same time private telegrams from
Mexico City to an American mining
man confirmed the report. It is now
reported In Mexican circle that Gen
etui Carranza made the appointment
of de la Huerta after the departure of
General obregon for the border and
without the knowledge or consent of
tho war secretary, who has hud con
lilcrable power In the past In dlctnt
lug the trend of the Sonora situation
Cullcs' friends say that the move to
displace him as governor Is conflrmu
lory of a report received a f, w day
ago from the national capiiui, unit
General Carranza had determined to
niako Cullcs commiindcr-ln-chlef of
tho forces In Sonora. This, they suy
will leuve him free to become a can
dldate for governor at the constltu
tlonal elections. If lie be retained In
the governorship, he would be una
ble to be n candidate to succeed him
self, under the rule adopted by til
constitutionalist party.
Duiing the absence of Genera)
Calif In Mexico 'ty, (Sencrul Gomez
will command the de facto forces In
northern Chihuahua slid along tin
Chihuahua border. Gen. Rafael Es
trada, will command the army operai.
Ing against the Yuqui Indians.
Gomes h ucknewledgcd to be the
most brainy and the bravest leader In
Sonora.
Moiitoja tU'tM on JIabb, II.
Santa Fe, May 2. Nestor Montoya,
former speaker of the house and edi
tor of IjI Handera American at Albu
querque, who Is acting as Interpre
ter In the federal court nnd one of
the standpat republicans wearing a
Roosevelt button, toiluy took up a bet
of 1100 even money posted at the
Rank saloon, that Thorns H. Catron
will defeat Frank A. Huhbell for the
republican nomination for the 1'nited
States senate, and then posted anoth
er bet for 100 even that Hubbell
would defeat Catron, which thus far
has found no taker.
t morning journa, 1UHD anati ,
El Puo. Tex.; May fl.-Murked
progress toward an agreement , wus
made today hi tho ' American , and
Mexican conferees considering the
1'nited State troops dispositions In
Mexico, according to unofficial . but
nuthorltntlve advices. It I believed
now the matter may .be threshed out
In the next day or an. , , ' '
This progress wus due to" the fact,
It was suld, that General obregon had
concluded, .there we no tonsslblllty ot
ttltcrhHf tho tntentluti...iif the VVsl,i-
lngton government not to withdraw
General Pershing's expeditionary
force immediately. ' ' , '
Ihh'h Not Wish War.'
The attitude of the Mexican minis
ter of war is believed to huve been
describi-id by a Mexican official who
took part In the first 'conference In
Jmtrcx; who Is closely conversant
with the entire situation nnd who
wild:
"lletween two evils you must
choose the lesser. It would be folly
to suppose the de facto government
desires war."
It was gathered from this thut the
Mexicans had decided not to press tho
question of withdrawal with the pos
sibility that a break might follow;.
Taken Vow Turn,
The negotiations today took an en
tirely unexpected turn. In the morn
ing It was announced that thcro
probably would be n meeting of the
conferees In tho afternoon, with Gen
etnls Scott and Funston representing
the United States, ns In the. flint con
ference, and with ' Generals Obregon
and Trevli'o representing Mexico. At
noon, however, General Scott walked
unattend from hla private car to the
Hotel Paso del Norte, leaving Gen
eral Funston to lunch alone In the
car; about the same time General
Obregon crossed over from Juuresi In
his touring car and proceeded to the
same pluce.
Scott's Diplomacy WIih.
Arriving at the hotel, General Hcott
and General Obregon went to a room
on the eighth floor reserved by A, J.
Mcyuutters, president of the Alva radii
Mining and Milling company, which
has large interests at Pnrrnl, the scene
of the recent out break of Mexicans
against the American troops. It be
came known then that the two gen
erals were to he the guests at lunch.
eon or ir. Mcguatters, a personal
friend of both.
At this meeting, which begnp at
noon and lasted well Into the night,
General Scott is reported to nave en-
Ioyed the tactic which he success
fully employed In his. negotiations
with Villa, the Geronlmo Incident and
other affairs, nnd which won for hltn
the reputation of being the official
peacemaker of the Washington fidv-eminent.
He is snld to have indicated to
General Obregon these things:
Rest I'rlciul of Mel,
That tb, l otted States h (lie host
fiicml Mexico lias got.
That Prcl(lcii Wilson only wlslicti
ii see .Mexico rid nf the VIDIMUS and
" soon as till In afiiitpllried, the
American troops will lie withdrawn.
That It apM'Mr that tho attitude of
the l ulled States government lias
not Ik'cii properly tmderHHHlt since,
fur from seeking Intervention, that Is
the very thing It wMies to avoid.
Hint finally, the majority nf tha
merit a ii pooplo, and even the mill-
lory are) In accord with President Wil
son's tit"-1 re t avoid intervention.
Vllllsta Still Wrong.
In addition to giving General Obre
gon this Information, General Hcott
reported to have assured him that
tin. Called , State government bad
been informed that the Villlsta ele
men! still was very 'strong- In Chlhun-
htitt and Durungo, and It felt that it
must take every precaution against
the repetition of such Incidents as th
oitimlius raid.
Washington, he Is asserted to have
