THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 42.
UAHUE, VEKMOXT, WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 191G.
VIUCK, ONE CENT.
PEARCE
a, f wmm. mmm a FUNERAL OF DR. W. 5. STKVE.KIS
111 III I
IV H rK H I Htld ' st- Albans, Body Having Ben
I y p J j Brought from Boston.
m. Ainans, aiay a. runerai aervicia
for Dr. William Stanford Stevens, who
died tSaturdar evening at hi home in
Boston, were held at the first tongrcga-
It ion I church in thin city this afternoon
at 2:30 o'clock. Rev. W. P. Jackson of
this city officiating. Mr, Henry F.
I.. VI,. V X' HmnnA ...tinir
(I I I 1 I as accompanist. The bearera were F". H.
V LJ I I Royee, P. C. Warner, fijxr" Brownell,
A I I III Bruce R. Corliss. Theodore K. Waugh and
U I I V M Leo F; Willson and the burial took place
I I.. .1.- S- . , . U If . .. r .. ..-,
Ill fcllC auiflll iiiwlll Blicrb iruinri i
Tim remain were accompanied here
last evening by Mrs. Stevens ana sons,
Stanford VI and l'hllin I J. Stevens. Mm
Provisional I resident Of Harriet S." Lewis, Mr. Oliver Crorker
.Stevens and Miss Agnes Byrnes of Bos
Ireland Paid Penalty for ton and Mrs. James of New York, who
(nun a. summer iromn in ima city.
Dr. Stevens was bom in Boston, a son
of Dr. Calvin and Sophia Toppan (Crock
EnffllSh Authority in Ire-"-) Stevens. He was graduated from
Hiirvard university in the elans of lHMi,
laild JameS Connolly, the of '"'' Colonel Theodore Roosevelt was
I O III1TIU IMT H III! W ll ll W III Mil II tvruia
" Commandant General " friendship had existed. Dr. Stevens stud
IS LEISURELY
MAKING REPLY
Germany Has Finished the
Draft of Communication
to the United States
Also Executed
ied medicine at Harvard Medical school
from which lie was graduated in 1R83,
In 1801, Dr. Stevens represented old
ward 18 in the Massachusetts legislature
and in 1888 ami 188!) was at member of
the common conneil Ai'iar liia mnrrittcre
3D LEADER EXECUTED J in 1R05 he removed to this city, where he
made nis tiome until a lew years ago. tie
3 WERE SENTENCED was a member of. the Union club, Har
vara club, uaKiev country duo, xwen
tieth Century club and the New England
.Historic-Genealogical society.
Dr. Stevens ia survived by his wife,
Emily Huntington (Lewis) Stevens, for
merly of St. Albans, and by two sons,
Stanford Huntington, a student at Har-
".-J ,.nli....Un -in... ( 'Id o njl TU i I ! -.
ment On the Leaders 01 Greeley, a student at Groton, Mass. A
4 ... brother, Oliver Crocker Stevens of Bos-
the ReCCnt ReVOlt Dublin ton, died five years ago last month. Dr.
, Stevens had extensive business interests
Sustained Monetary LOSS in Vermont, notably in telephone com-
, . panies. He had a country place at East
Estimated tO Be Nearly Enosburg known as Maple Grange, and
only a few months ago sola his former
home, Inglcside, on Smith street in this
city.
English Government Im
poses Summary Punish
Ten Million Dollars
PHYSICIAN FOUND DEAD.
London, May 3. Patrick H. Pearce,
called "provisional president" of Ireland,
was among the prisoners shot to-day.
James Connolly, who was called com-
"mandant general of the Irish republican
armv. was also shot this morning. One
Dr. John Gibson of St. Albans as Well as
Usual Last Night
St. Albans, May 3. Dr. John Gibson,
aged 4!) years, was found dead in bid
this morning about 7:30 o'clock at hi
home ou North Main street, bv his wife
other proclamation signer was executed who went to call him when lie did not
and three were sentenced to three years' appear at the usual time. He had ap
. imprisonment, according to an announce- Prently been in good health of late and
. ... . -, , ...j.u seemed as well as usual when he went
mem .ma ...e.-uun Dy .c.ic. 4u.n.. to )ggt n The c4uge o dcmth
London, May 3 Unet secretary tor ire- wag hMrt troubIe.
land Augustine Birrell resigned from the I Dr. Gibson was born in Scotland 4!)
cabinet this afternoon. The resignation years ago. He came to this country early
in life and with other members of his
f.miltf T1 (1 il I, ll J a V, ri m r i n ( ' .,1 Viv .1 rr
ucmu v.voU17 - Mass. He attended the pub e. schoolb
or commons. I there and was graduated from the medi
Ical college of the University of Vermont
in 1808. For four years he practiced hi
. ....
inq oraer 01 me uay nmnning nio w profession in Vergennes and came to this
engaged in suppression of the rebellion, city thirteen rears ago.
Lieutenant General Sir John MUxwell, H mftrrie(1 Migg Utzie Hickok of Bur
military commander, says that owing to intoni April 22 1903, and she survives
the tireless efforts of the soldiers all the hi t()(trther with three brothers and
rebels in the city have surrendered.
ine lire cniet nas esumatea xne aam
age to buildings as a million pound,
($.5,000,000) and to stock 760,000
$3,750;
destroyed or damagei
tions are returning gradually. In county
BUT IT IS SUBJECT
TO ALTERATIONS
As Berlin and German Gen
eral Headquarters Ex
change Their Views
Berlin, via' wireless to Associated Press.
via Sayvillo, May 3. The draft of the
German reply to the American note hu
been finished, subject to minor altera
tions, which may result from interchange
of views between Berlin and general
headquarters. The attitude of Germany
will be stated in clear and precise terms.
The note will leave no room for doubt
concerning t he exact position assumed
by Germany, which will communicate
definite nature pf the instructions to be
given submarine commanders and other
data on which Washington itself can
judge tho situation.
The Associated Press is permitted to
make these statements although the cen
sorship on dispatches tending, to reeal
the tenor of the German reply is still
effective. The date of the delivery of
the answer has not been fixed.
WASHINGTON PESSIMISTIC.
SHARP ELECTION CONTEST.
1,000). A total of 179 buildings w j Resulted in Defeat of Solon A. Richmond
yea or damaged. Normal condi-
in nratneooro. -
Gnlway. the insurrection has been quelled
but there is great need of bread.
Brattleboro, May 3. Solon A. Rich
mond was defeated for re-election as a
village commissioner in the annual vil
lage meeting last night and Ernest W.
Gibson was elected for three years. The
vote was 126 to 102.
Henry R. Brown, who was expected to
be in the field, announced yesterday aft
Serious Trouble is Reported to Have 0c- ernoon that he would not be a candidate,
CROWDS OF WOMEN
CLAMORED FOR PEACE
Germany's Long Delay Interpreted as In-
. dicating Failure to Comply.
Washington, D. C, May 3. Two weeks
have passed since the United States dis
patched to Germany its note demanding
that an abandonment of present meth
ods of submarine warfare immediately
le declared and effected, and the state
department is without any definite, in
formation indicating that the demand
would be complied with. As the days
go by and 110 reply comes from Berlin,
and Gerard sends no word regarding tlie
attitude of the German government, an
air of grave concern is beginning to
manifest itelf in administration circles.
Publicly officials continue to preserve an
air of optimism. Privately no attempt is
made to conceal a
ODD FELLOWS REJOICE.
At Dedication of New Building in Brat
tleboro.
BrattleWo, May 3. The dedicatory
services for the Jiew Old Fellows tein
pie on Green street were conducted hero
yesterday afternoon by Grand Master
Dr. L. C. Holeombe of Milton, assihted
by the following members of his suite:
.1. G. Roy, deputy grand master, of Eabt
Harnetj E. A. Spear, grand warden, of
Woodstock; Rev. J. H. Reardon, grand
chaplain, of Itarrej O. W. Kdwards, grand
marshal, of Durlington; Alex Duncan
grand conductor, of Burrej H. T. Drown
grand guardian, of I.udlow: E. 1j. In
galls, grand representative of Burling
ton; Calvin Endrens, pant grand repre'
sentative, of Bennington ; and F. W
lackson, pat grand representative, or
l?nrre. Distinguished ohVers of the I'o
bekah order present were Mrs. Angie
Kndress, president of the Rehekah as
scmbly, of llennington; Mis Emma H.
Gates, secretary of the Kebckah assem
bly, of j.udlow, und Mrs. Nora Jackson,
past president of the Rebekah assembly,
of Barre. Representatives of nearly ev'
ery lodge of Odd, Fellos in the state were
present as well as others from lodges in
towns in nearby states.
The Hcnachel male quartet of Spring
field, Mass., sang during the exercises
and the magnilicient Estey organ with
its solid mahogany case and numerous
special attachments was heard for the
first time with A. J'. Gunzinger playing.
The keys of the temple were turned aver
to the grand master by Arthur L. May
nard, chairman of the building committee
who, in turn, handed them to William J.
Cain, chairman of the trustees. The ad
dress was by Grand Representative E. L.
Ingalls of Burlington.
Wantastiquet lodge, the subordinate
body, is one of the four oldest lodges in
the state, having been instituted in
nearly a year before the grand lodge ot
Vermont was instituted. It lias now 3S4
members and is the strongest in mem
bership and financially in the jurisdic
tion. There are 44 past noble grands in
the membership. Besides the temple the
lodge owns the Tyler building on Main
street and valuable property at the .cor
ner of hlliot and Hiurch streets.
PATROL WORK
RESTRICTED
American Troops to Retire
to Northern Part of
Mexico
LOST ITS POSITION,
FIRST ON DOCKET
CONFERENCE ENDED
IN GOOD HUMOR
H. C. Potter vs. I. N. Chase Was Not
Ready to Be Taken Up in Supreme
Court To-day Many Opinions
Rendered.
Because the first two cases listed for
hearing on the trial calendar were not
ready this morning in supreme court at
Montpelier, the first, 11. C. Potter vs.
I. N. Chase, Addison cotinty, lost its
place on the calendar, and the other,
Leon Dane vs. Neoma Bean, Caledonia
county, was stricken off the list.
Another Caledonia county case, Gil-
man Brothers vs. Austin T. Booth, gener
al and special assumpsit, was taken up
for argument. Porter, Witters and Har
vey appear for the plaintiff and Dona-
AFFECTIONS
WERE STOLEN
According to Jury, Which
Gave Frank C. Phelps
$2,511 as Damages
PHELPS THEN
CERTIFIED .
SKED
jGMENT
Scott and ObregOn Await Innett and Shields appear for the
. defendant.
Approval irom ineir
Governments
The opinions read Yesterday follow:
Addison county, Erwin G. Piper vs. Bos
ton & Maine railroad, judgment affirmed
for the plaintiff to recover $195.24 with
interest, aceording to original verdict.
Hennington county Mary :. ritzger-
Ef Paso, Tex., May 3. Appsoval from 'd vs. Metropolitan Lite Insurance t o.,
Washington and Mexico City is awaited JV" ",i J""8 " .1 TT.t
' for trial. The verdict 111 the lower court
for the provisional agreement which H wag for the nantjjT to recover ?."13.33.
understood to have been reached between I Opinion by Munson.
Generals Scott and Obregon. The border
conference was ended after midnight and
the conferees were in good humor. It
ig reported tha the American troops
will further retire toward the border
Caledonia eounty-Oscar C. Woodruff,
a dm., vs. William and Sarali Donaldson
decree favoring orator affirmed and cause
remanded; Watson.
franklin county Wesley (joodrich vs
Chappell and Phaneuf, apta., trespass and
Charles "dey's
Attorneys
Gr Jo Indication of
c Plan to Appeal
BANKING METHODS IN QUESTION
Former President of a Brattleboro Bank
is Being Tried.
Burlington, May 3. The trial of
George C Averill of Brattleboro, at on
time president of the Vermont National
bank of Brattleboro, was held in federal
court here to-day.
It is claimed by the government that
there have been irregular entries in ac
counts between the Vermont National
hank and the Shawmut bank of Boston,
the Hanover bank of New Vork and the
First National bank of Copeord, in vol v-
and operate against Villa in a restricted La.' imL.j. ii-
district where their presence will not nMni.-l f svr v. Xfont
provoke nosnniy. pelier 4 Wells River railroad, pro forma
. . . I decree dismissing bill affirmed and cuused
CARRANZA TROOPS BLOCKED. m. T.viT.r Th roir ntPnH.
ed that, tlip flfpndnnt. fniled trt comblv
, r . . w 1 , I I 1 "
ine American rorces rui inemseives in entirely with an order of the public serv
Strategic Position. ire commission rf lative to the elimina
r, , i- ic 1 11 l I tion of a grade crossing, leaving the ora
Douglas Ant.. May 3.-An attempt by L m fr0
uuj i u'" " 7 a ' ,V thp highway,
vance guard of General Arnulfo Go-1 n.,."
Ing alleged transfers of funds from one,
contrary feeling and I bank to another, payment of checks and
ad
mez's force, to enter Chihuahua through
Pulpito pass was blocked yesterday by
American troops, a-ccording to reliable re
ports received here from American
sources.
The Mexicans, according to the re
port, v-ere under command of Colonel
.Tesus. Maria Aguierre and had pene
trated 18 miles into the pass before their
movement was discovered by a tinted
States military aeroplane which reported atreet, that the evidence showed that he
their presence to tlie American comman- looked in a southerly direction before he
der. attempted to cross the street (Uid failed
1 ne American iroops are saia 10 nave 1 10 see me amoniomie wnicn fttiick nun
been drawn up in strategic formation ! 20 seconds later. The plaintiff had near
to hold the pass and Colonel Aguierre did ly reached the other side when struck
not attempt to press forwaTd, but went and would not nave ordinarily wen iook
into camp and dispatched messengers to ing for a machine to be coming from the
Orleans county Raymond Aiken vs.
Oliver Metcalf, judgment reversed ond
cau.se remanded; Powers. The case grew
out of an automobile accident in the town
of lra.sburg, the plaintiff being injured
when struck bv a machine while crossing
the street. In the lower court the ver
diet was ordered for the defendant by
the court. In his opinion Judge Powers
held that the plaintiff exercised the care
of a prudent man before be crossed the
curred in Berlin and Elsewhere
Germany Many Arrests Said
to Have Been Made.
in
London. May 3. Serious trouble is re
ported to have occurred in Berlin and
elsewhere in Germany on May day, says
the Amsterdam correspondent of the Ex
change Telegraph Co. Vast crowds
composed mostly of women of the labor
ing classes, clamored for peace. The
crowds were dispersed by the police and
many people were arrested. Two women
were pounded at Chamnitz in Saxony.
A Geneva telegram say that three
people were killed and 70 were wounded
bv the police during the Leipsic food
riots and 25 were killed and iWK) were in
jured in the Berlin riots.
so many of Mr. Richmond's supporters
remained at home not expecting that
there would be a contest,
Mr. Gibson is a captain of the National
Ouard and a former judge of the Brattle
boro municipal court.
The .other officers were re-elected.
RELIEF STEAMERS IN MISHAPS.
GERMAN ATTACK
NEAR HARAZEE
WAS REPULSED
One Has Been Sunk and Other, Badly
Damaged, Taken to Port.
LondoB, May 3. Two steamers, un
der charter by the American commission
for relief in Belgium, have met mishaps
at sea.
The British st earner Hendon HhII has
been sunk and the Swedish steamer Frid
land has been damaged and is being
towed into Blackdeep, at the mouth of
the Thames. Both vessels sailed from
Portland, Me., for Rotterdam with relief
supplies for the Belgians. The Frid
land has on board seven thousand tons
of wheat.
French War Office Announced Thst the
Assailants Sustained Serious, Losses
in Last Night's Movement.
Paris, May 3. A German attack near
MAY LOSE HAND.
Brakeman Calvin Lawyer Had Member j
Caught Between Cars.
Newport, May 3. Calvin Lawyer, a
Canadian Pacific railroad brakeman.
this feeling is certain to become more
pronounced unless definite news is forth
coming over night.
It is felt hero that the very lentrth of
time which has been consumed by the
German government in preparing a re
ply in itself indicates that the communi
cation will not take the shape of a sim
ple response to the direct and clear cut
issue raised in the American note. It
s feared that the reply is likely to as
sume an argumentative character, which
can scarcely be regarded as meeting the
requirements of the United States.
Persons 111 close touch with affairs at
the German embassy, however, continue
to express themselves as being positive
that Germany will make concussions to
the United States which will prevent the
breaking off of diplomatic relations.
They say the Berlin government had
been advised that the United States
meant just what it said in its note and
was not prepared to enter into any ne
gotiations on the subject of submarine
warfare until present methods had been
been abandoned.
WILSON IS UNSHAKEN
In Determination That Issue Is Not Ne
gotiable. Washington, D. C, May 3. -President
Wilson is represented as unshaken in his
determination that the submarine issue
with (iermany is not negotiable and that
a settlement cannot be delayed bv a
British blockade and retaliatory meas
ures.
drafts and deposits made, especially by
a corporation known as tlie Jlowland
Pulp and Paper company, a Vermont cor.
poration doing business in Maine.
The government will produce witnesses
and books from the Hanover and !$haw.
mut banks and the pulp and paper com
pany. The alleged irregular entries cov
er many thousands of dollars. It is not
unlikely that Mr. Averill's relations with
the Howlsnd Paper company may be in
vestigated before the trial is completed.
The trial will involve an examination
of many books and accounts and .T. H.
Kelleher of Montpelier, national bank
examiner, and special agents of the gov
ernment are in the city to cive testi
mony. Mr. Averill was president of
the Brattleboro bank previous to and
about the time the indictment was
brought and resigned from the presiden
cy in the summer of 1015. The indict
ment covers tJie time from about Decem
ber in 1014 to April in 1U15.-
the rear presumably to communicate
with Gomez.
Colonel Aguierre' advance into Chi
huahua is believed here to have been
the forerunner of a general movement.
direction indicated on the wrong side of
the street.
Rutland county Moses R. Anderson
vs. Howe fvale Co., negligence, judgment
for the defendant affirmed; Tavlor. The
suit wu.8 brought for personal injuries
when the plaintiff was injured because of
an elevator falling one story due to a
broken bolt. The verdict' was ordered by
the court and the "plaintiff took the case
to supreme court on that ground. Judge
WANTS TO BUILD RAILROAD.
President E. C. Smith of Central Vermont
Seeks Permission.
CLAIMS HUSBAND NAGGED HER.
He Says It Was Case of Too Much Moth-
er-in-Law.
Ifarazee was repulsed with serious losse I caught his left hand between two ears
lor the assailants, the war office an
nounced this afternoon. In the Ver
dun region last night there was heavy
artillery fighting.
SURPRISE ATTACKS
WIN FOR GERMANS
Ctptured Several Doren Belgians and
Also Made Raid on a Second Line
French Trench,
Berlin, via wireles. May 3. Headquar
tert announce that detachments made
a surprise attack on the Belgian trenches
and took several doren prisoners. Pa
trols entered a second French line and
fjtured several. Four aeroplanes were
captured or destroyed.
yesterday afternoon at Farnham, Cana
da, while coupling cars and it is feared
he will have to undergo an operation for
amputation. He was taken to a Montre
al hospital. Lawyer's home is in Newport.
SURROUNDED IN WOODS.
is
FIVE AIRSHIPS SEEN.
During Raid 0er North Coast of Eng
land and South Coast of Scetlaad.
Iiondn, May 3. Five hostile airhp
attacked the northeast roast of Eng.
)jnd and the outheast cast of rVr.tia ti J
list night.
T facial annul n-mrnt on the ral
ay thst thr movements of the raider,
prarWI nncprtain. addm?: "A few
bomb were dropped in Yorkshire, hut
John Elliott is Heavily Armed He
Wanted for Murder.
Thompson. Conn., May 3. .John El
liott, wsnted for the murder of (Joorge
Pettis and his daughter. Sibyl, i par
tially surrounded in a woodland by an
armed poe. Elliott is heavily armed.
DEMANDS REFUSED.
New York Central and Nickel Plate Line
Will Not Accede.
New Vork. Mar 3.-Demands for in-
cred wages and better hour, hr teleg
raphers and sijrnalmn on thr New York
Central and Nfkel Plate railroad will
not b granted, says Viee-President
Hardin.
Rutland, Mav 3. Claiming that
husband was insanely jealous and thai
he continually nagged her 011 this ac
count, often keeping her from getting
any sleep at night, .Mrs. Kvelvn t.air
Downes, petitioner in a divorce proceed
ing brought against her huslmnd, Robert
Downes of Castleton, told a story in Rut
land county court yesterday afternoon
or privations she wag forced to suffeor on
account of the young man's ideas atioul
her actions. The case is one of the first
contested actions heard this term, the
defendant in this case denying all the
charges made by the petitioner and offer
ing to show a case of too much mother-in-law
and justified the grounds for re
buking his wife.
The cae was partially before the pub
lic several weeks ago when the wilf's
mother. Mrs.
Bout well, was
and in the morning she reported thst
she had been struck over the head with
a heavy piece of wood while aleep. It
has since ben claimed that she fell down
a flight of stairs.
The Toung man s placed under bail
Boston, May 3. Permission for the ac
quisition by the Central Vermont Rail
way company of the Southern New Eng
land Railway corporation was sought of
tlie legislature-yesterday in a petition
tiled with the Senate bv E. C. Smith,
president of the former road, fci another
petition tiled by Mr. Smith the legislc
line was asked to permit the 'Central
Vermont to transfer by mortgage its in
terests as lessee in the franohise and
other property of the New London
Northern Railroad company.
The petitions announce a proposal to
place lxith t hd Southern New England
he and New London Northern railroads un
der mortgage to secure bonds of. $30,iKn,.
HM which the Central Vermont seeks to
issue to complete the Southern New Eng
land line from Palmer to Providence, R.
I., and to improve its property general-
CARRANZA OFFERS 25,000 MEN
To Round Up Villa Men If Americans
Will Withdraw.
Washington, D. C, May 3. From 5Iex- Tavlor held that the injitrv was caused
ico sources it was learned yesterday that while the elevator wa being tested and
based on the immedmte withdrawal of I the defendant was not negligent because
the American troops General Carranza of the resultant injury, the bolt which
has offered through his two represent-1 caused the elevator to fall having been in
tives to place an active army of 2n,KH) use two years.
men in northern Mexico as soon as the I indham county Manley Bros. vs.
Americans arc withdrawn. The offer was Boston & Maine railroad and Crvstal
accompanied by assurances, it is snid, Springs Ice Co., judgment affirmed for
that more than half of this force would I plaintiff; rowers. Hester A. Davis vs.
be so placed as to guarantee border Farrar Dunn, reversed and tuise remand-
towivs from future bandit raids, while ed. judgment in lower court having been
the remainder would be used in a vigor- for defendant to recover costs: Watson.
A verdict for the plaintiff, Frank C.
Phelps of Cabot, to recover $2,541 from
Charles I'tley, formerly of Cabot, now of
Hardwick, a lumber manufacturer, was
returned by the jury at 7:30 o'clock last
evening in Washington county court. The
plaintiff's attorneys moved for the exe
cution of a certified judgment on the ver
dict. Attorneys for tiie defendant gave
no indication that the case would be tak
en to supreme court on exceptions.
Phelps sued Utley for $W,000 for
alienation of his wife's affections, . the
caae occupying five full days in trial.
Much of the evident was contradictory,
the defendant attempting to establish
alibis on dates when it was alleged that'
he was 111 the company of Mrs. Phelps.
J. Ward Carver, Fred L, Laird and F.
C. Kimball a ppeared for the plaintiff and
the defendant's counsel consisted of R. E.
Brown of Burlington, W. A. Dutton and
M. G. Morse of Mirdwick and William
Theriault of Montpelier. The arguments
were completed about i. o'clock yesterday
afternoon and the case given to the jury
shortly after 5 o clock. , .
A Will Case Started.
A jury was drawn this forenoon to
hear the ease of in re Margaret Mooney's
will, Henry Mooney, claimant. Mrs.
Mooney, whose death occurred in Montpe
lier about a year ago, left most of her
property - to three daughters, Henry
Mooney. ft son, being cut off. The will is
now being contested vn the grounds that
Mrs. Mooney was not mentally capable
of drawing a will. Marshall and Harvev '
represent the claimant and Fred L. Laird
the beneficiaries. The jury drawn is las
follows: William R. Coolev, A. M. Snow,
Grant Lane, T. .T. Farrell, Fred Darling,
Fred E. Grain, John Osborn, Harry Pat
terson, L. L. Knapp, John Holland, W, H.
lierdan and A. lute.
Mrs.
HANDBAG WIELDER FINED.
Montpelier
ous pursuit of bandits until the whole
country adjacent to the border had been
cleared of these outlaws.
NEV OFFICERS CHOSEN.
SHERMAN OF ILLINOIS.
Will Address Vermont Republican State
Convention.
Chelsea. May 3. United States Sena
tor Lawrence V. Sherman of Illinois will
deliver the keynote speech at the Repub
lican state convention to be held May
"2d at .Montpelier, announces Stanley C.
ilson, chairman of the Kepiililiraii state
committee. Senator Sherman is known
Helen ( arr Rrindeiiiore jas a very fine speaker, full of entliUM
injured during the nitfht Um. and is Illinois' favorite son candi
date for president. His s-eeh will iie
delivered in the afternoon.
Senator Sherman s elected United
State senator March 2d. l!l3. to fill tic
unexpired term of William 1irimer. lie
was a member of the Illinois H nse of
Itftt. and
1 !! Ifn
Barre Woman's Club Electa Mrs. Alex
Duncan President.
The annual business meeting of the
Barre Woman's club was held in How
land hall yesterday afternoon. The
meeting was w-ell attended and the splen
did reports given by the officers and
chairmen of the several departments
showed a great amount of work accom
plished during the past year, and at least
two departments are in most gratifying
financial condition.
The following officers were elected for
the rssuing year: President, Mrs. Alex
Duncan; first vice-president. Mrs. A. C.
Jones: second vice-president, Mrs. Wil
liam Ba relay; recording secretary. Mts.
Vuincy Perry; corresponding secretary,
Mrs. C. L. Rugbee; treasurer, Mrs. Fritz
Jackson; auditors, Mrs. F. J. Martin,
Mrs. Frank Gove; directors, Mrs. F. W.
Robinson, Mrs. N. D. Phelps; chairman
of music and arts department. Miss
Gladys N. Gale; chairman of educational
department, Mrs. F. L. Langley; chair
Washington county Henry Russ vs.
Michael Good, judgment for defendant
reversed and cause remanded; Powers.
Parry fc Jones vs. Empire Granite &
Quarry Co., et al. decree affirmed and
cause remanded: Tkylor. K. D. Bartlett
et al vs. Antonio Hcnazzi, deceit, demur
rer to plea sustained, plea insufficient,
and cause remanded; Haselton. State
vs. Jacob Aaron, an appeal from Barre
city court, decree reversed and cause re
nin nded; Powers. The respondent had i
appealed from a verdict against him for
alleged careless operation of "an automobile.
DEATH OF C. GRANAI.
He Leaves
man of civic department, Mrs.
Shepard.
W. F,
PAVING CUTTERS WIN.
Employes of Rockport Granite Company
Given Wage Increase.
Rskjsrt. Mas.. May 3. The Paving
utters union settled its differences witM
he Rockport Granite company yester
day and the men rrturned to work. Thev
number about 400 and will receive .n
increase from $25 to 2ti a thousand for
standard blocks, an advance of $2.1.50 to
$2t! in odd sire Mocks and generally the
new scale is from $1 to $2.50 ahead c.f
the trtrmer rate. The settlement is on a
five-year basis.
WAS COOLLY RECEIVED.
of $.vm after a hearing liefore a lower ' Representatives from ISfT to
court and later the grand jurr refused !s eaker of the House in
to indict him and the ess ni'titutej bv and in IWil-l'.Ki.l. From UH to lfK'8 h
the state v md pr-ed. Ua, lieutenant-governor. From PH
COL. HOUSE AT WHITE H0CSE.
Probably
Mr. lvwties on the stsnd i-aid thst
she could tirt .pak or 1 k st a male
person tdher thn her husband witlto.it
his showinir IT ore or le temw-r. She
claimed he hsd no grounds for l:i mis
pi ions.
TROOPS ARRIVE
101.1 he was prej,lent of the board of
administration of the state of Illinois,
having control of IT state charities.
For Tabce Work in EaM Pi?tburg, !
.1- . . .
swre 4 cere is kictiih.
FIVE MEN DROWN.
But Filled with Men Errployed in Ai
irendack Leg Prive Capsizes.
PnUlam. V. Y, Vav 3. F mn
Resolution Before Methodists to Censure
Wilson for Serving Wine.
Saratopa Springs. May 3 A resolu
tion rritieiring President Wilson for pro
viding wine for gu.-st at the White
Houe waa eol!y received by the Meth
odist general conference and was referred
to the temperance committee.
He Had Been 111 for 11 Years
11 Children.
Coriolano Granai parsed away .nt his
home on (iranite street last night at
10:45 o'clock, the end following 11 years'
illness. The deceased was a native ot
Carrara. Itily, and would have been 4(1
years old had he lived until July 24. He
is survived by his wife, who was Miss
Elvira Yolpi and to whom he was mar
ried in Italy; and 11 children, tostantino
of New York. (Wella of Barre, Coriolano,
a student at Montpelier seminary : Adre-
ana. I.eo, Nevina, Joseph. Anita. Martha,
George ami Margaret: a brother. O. Gra
nai, who resides in this city, and also a
second brother and his mother. Mrs. Te
resa C. Granai. who reside in Italy. Mr.
Granai was a well known member of the
Italmn colony and had lived in this city
for some years. He was a granite cutter
by trade.
The funeral is to be held at the house.
27 Granite street, Thursday afternoon at
2 o'clock. Interment will lie made in
Hojte cemetery.
STRICKEN FOUR DAYS AGO.
Cora Somerviile of
.Pleaded Guilty..
An echo of an incident which occurred
in Pearl street Monday night was heard
in city court this morning when Mrs.
Cora Somerviile of Montpelier appeared
before Magi.strate H. W. Scott and plead
ed guilty to a breach of the peace charge.
A tine and costs aggregating $12.25, im
posed by the court, are to be paid by the
respondent. It was alleged by the au
thorities that tlie Somerviile woman used
her handbag as u weapon in swinging on
H, J. Scammell as he stood on the curb
ing of the street. The blow is said to
have fractured a pair of pince nez worn
by the complainant, who told the grand
juror he was only an innocent bystander.
Yesterdtiy a woman named Maude Thorn
ton of Montpelier was taken in custody
by the police of that city and brought to
Barre. When Scammell failed to identify
her as his assailant she was released.
Paul B. Hetuilicu. u Granitcville fish
dealer, pleaded guilt v to a first offense
this morning und paid the minimum fine
and costs of $5.30. When Bcaulieu left
his fish cart on North Main stret' to in
spect the bird stores, the police took the
outfit to a livery hnni and later arrested
Bcaulieu.
The jury in the case of State vs. George
Stone, charged with a hreiich of the peace
by striking George E. Smith with a shov
el, returned a verdict of guilty at 11
'o'clock this forenoon. It was expected
that a $10 fine and costs aggregating $20,
imposed by the magistrate, would be
paid. The complainant, Smith, alleged
that Stone struck him while the pair
were at work in a West Second street
gr.mite shed on the 8th of April. Wit
nesses for the state were Arthur Comolli,
Osar Marcaii and the complainant.
Stone took the stand in his own defense.
Grand Juror William Wishart conducted
the prosecution and the respondent was
represented by A. A. Sargent. It wa
one of the shortest jury trials ever en
tered on the court records.
H. G. WiHslruff was foreman of the
jury and others who served were: L. R.
Hutchinson. J. A. Field. K. I.. Ward, I.. S.
(iates. Earl Batchelder. Edwin Keast, B.
B. Jackson. W. H. Messer. W. H. Olliver,
James l-ong hihI C. S. Andrews.
(Jeorge Ijomhard of Montpelier. charged
by the police with having joined with
Xavier Parent of west hill in staging a
horse rate 011 Brock street Sunday morning-,
was arraigned liefore the maiii'trste
Iste Tiies'lay afternoon. IyOrtibard plead
ed guilty to violstini; the city ordinance
bv rai ina his hor'e in a citv street and
was fined and -ots of $7,25. After
the as-essiiicnt had Is-eti paid. Ivombsrd
tol I the court that a per-on or person
unknown to him were mixed up in the
: horse rntc. that he wis elsewhere while
! it wis in rirorres-. When the court of-
Burlington High Defeated M. S.
Burlinpton. May .1. Rurlirijrton t.igh
school defeated Montpelier seminary tr
tHay by the score of a to 1. Far jtHe,i
a fine pame f-ir the home team, liolaay
dd well f'T M'lntpelier seminary.
A Bit of Excitement in Bristol.
team nd
f,. v - !,., CVnnt were nromneq ll'l'iii "im in"ir imii
l"ittri'-g. Mv ; lie tot c8piril is mw i.an n:: in rne rrr- j rrmm. T" rn p r-l it
Sitsatica. !, ... ... . ... . . ........ ... .;... , i . it,. i .i, i'rn.,t a v w.
Washington. D. i Mar - o! n. i r... Iif.. t. i? , "in t1" T.irtV 1 A ! n.n.:. k. All the n.en nere rmpioT.J !ri"ol ttH at the tat- eter-T
Hons has anie.I to visit tV ret !e-1 I rr.k vl M'-nti u'lfu. w s. ., n t' rf irx l J 1 r e M.r, frr,Td 1 run ear if
ttr arw im Otai s tet rgarcmg trn1 iwohaWy to d " tre .Umanre fi-,ke r't wmt-1. l'e? tr.ri. Y ' ner Snf rt in t ' b" t. the -t tn-rs n 2" poaM r1 4 "st t in t - agr. b,it
m. reiq in r-ai oe-.
Etillo Rmi, Aged 15, Barre School Boy,
Died To-day.
Etillo Kiwi, the 15 -year-old son of Mr.
anil Mrs. Felix Ki.i of 1! Vine street.
died this morning after a brief illness.
The child, while apparently in his u-iml
health, was tri,ken four i!a a"o. his
condition growing worse from day to tered to bt hi-n re'rmt the plea in vie
day. The boy s Iwirn in Barre March of hi- alleged alibi. Ixitnhard said be pre-
X, !H'l. and attended the pnhlic ho)i , lerri d to pay the tine and cost.
until his lt iiltiew. Iirg a student in I
the seventh era !c at the Nonh Barre 'prjSfEPAL OF MRS. MARY W0RTHEN
school. Resides his parerts. he i nr-1
ied by a brother. Rego Rvri. ared '
The funeral will be hel I at the h.,ine Vri
Jay at 2 p. m . with burial in Hop- ierr,e
terv.
a i -i
tr rfyssmite td ot ipl'sde.
MOTORIST ARRESTED.
H. W. Adams of Worcester Said to Hsv
Opetated Wttkoot license.
ih;1 of Pol.r- P. I. Cs-..'!v in Vi
tii.f thim f v -ntn rols( H. '.
A 1 Ot W i(.'i-t on t'e . i-ai-r of
opera! if a a -t I. ' w it -.t a i
-v. t mar iM l .rg is.i.e I by i,fnj
iror Ihriaut.
Wis Held st Her GranddauRhte r"s Home
in Barre.
f'unerjl Mri for Mrs. Mary Jan
W',rt' in. :te of the Ute Linus L,
W'orihen. hn ro'f l away "siitiday fere
.-,M. were he'd at the boin of her
f-and-laiigMer. lr. W. K. San Horn. !
iWa-hir-t.n 'trecf. th- afternoon at 1
!', I.k. f ry. .1. W. Baejwtt. ptir of
'the t epftrjlt ' fil re-tirch. was the oetj.
. -,-j i ' i r ' n sfi-! te brrcrs were:
A. I . Vt if.. W. .1. ( !r-p. .fa me .:'! n
a,t V. I . v , t, I ,,e ..' tk"1
(to P!ai.el-i ot irerret m le family
4 ti tle s n3e:y.
