VOLUME XXXI. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA WEDNESDAY. MAY 3,1916. 41
CNAUIMJ@A L([K IS
GREAJSUCCE[SS
Entertainments so far Ex
ceed Expectations.
JULIA CLAUSSEN
FRIDAY EVENING
After the First Number Entliusiasm
for the Chautauqua ran High, so
that it w as Fteely Predicted that
Contract for Next Year would be
Quickly Signed.
The Redpath Chautauqua, which 'bo
gan its seven day engagement here
Friday afternoon has met with al
most universal approbation from the
very first number. Every number on
the program has met with general sat
isfaction and even enthusiasm. Not
only in the quality of the entertain
ments and lectures has the Chautauqua
pleased, but also in the conduct of its
staff and the affable manner of the
talent upon the street;. 'Dr. Barbee,
the superintendent, has made many
friend: in the city. Siunday morning
he occupied the pulpit. of the First
Pr;'sbyterian church and preached an
eioquent : raeion to a large and ap
preclative co:'tegalion. The same af
ternoon he made a very interesting
talk to the young men's Prayer Meet
ing at the Methodist church. Yester
.ay evening 'Mr. Allen D. Albert, the
Tuesday evening lecturer, president
of the International Association of
Rotary Cubs, made a stirring address
before the business men of Laurens
on city building. it will be seen, there
fore, that the Chautauqua people have
not confined themselves to the pro
gram contracted for, but have sought
to make themselves useful as well as
agreeable to the community.
The Chautauqua will come to a close
: Friday evening with the song recital
by Mine Julia Claussen, prima donna
of the Chicago Grand Opera Company.
Mme Caussen will arrive Friday after
noon in a special car which will be
parked in the local yards. It has
been especially requested that the au
dionce gather early in order that there
may be no interruption of the pro
gram. The concert will start at S
o'clock. Those who will have to buy
tickets are requested to secure them
.,arly to avoid delay. .
The following is the program for the
remainder of the season:
lVeineslay Morning
Morning Lecture
Admission 25c Children 15c
Wedncsday Afternoon
Concert White H-ussars I
Interpretative Reading,
"Seven Oaks" Everett Kemp
Admission 35c Children I5c
Wcdnesdny E ening
Grand Concert White Hlussars
Admission W0e Children 15c
Thursday Aft'rnoon
Children's Hlour,
"Trho hollow Trree Stories"
Lecture, "Mly Wild Bird Guests"
Er'nest liar'old flaynes
Adlmission 35c Children 15ei
'liTIIhursdy Evening
Bird Mlasque,
"Sancetuary andl Pageant
Admission 50c Children 25c
Friday A fterunoon
Lecture, "The World We Live In"
Dr. E. TI. Hagerman
eAdmission 35ie Children 15e
Friday E~vening
Song JU'eltai
Julia Claussen, Prima Donna, Con
tralto, Chicago Grand Opera Co.
assisted by
Pierre Hlenrotte, Concert Mister,
Chicago Grand Opera Co.
Marcel Charlior, Conductor, Chicago
(Grand Opera Co.
Admission $1.00 'Children i;0e
Bulling New Ihome.
Mr.' Tom Henderson has had ma
terial laid down for a cottage to be
bu.ilt on South Harper street adjoining
the re'ideneo or his tather. The build
ing will bec of modern construct!on and
artistlc deaign,
Mr's'ms to Meet Here.
About three or four hundred dele-,
gnies will bo ho next Tuesday to at
tend thr, distrlet meeting of Masons.
An attractivo program has been ar
ranged for thoem and a pleasant meet
tag is anticipated. The meetings will
to .held in the lodge of the Lauren.
Mfaaona
ROUTE OF PROPOSED ELECTRIC RAILWAY
TO SERVE CROSS ANCHOR TERRITORY
1> . Padgett
-ues R h d.
, ai~tLrurens lend
trCe hitesione A co
R pbu pi Trele /s Co "etss' p ribr u~
A rpsto sudrwyaog riga hw "aoect Aa esizaio o th oadocroatrwa
Reeo dille Moore * * -.a
Wlor de w d i nan a r Anch eitron ' . a
'C o s A c o o c n e t t e e a d r i 18 'hl bo y m t a t Ades Mo r , f S arta b r ~ r a e ts e
da n liA Lockha -
lugFru so Cit eg ,O aN IO N
zrVw l nt O~ y ou t i er q l n s i * -- theysv las te r f t e C u t o e e a
inn l nMr rawfor al~he~~
I(r 'J I.MllrAttouw
ora Santuck
warks o
tAUREN K tma
''h lugd Point a (lr-h(( d i (.5f lug th te
sens. of ClAtn noI ret c 1( h h ~ull 'n~t ' f itig 1(1 diY ~a. I.Wl ermm
barn t th cbuty Jil o ounicvi
rosshi'ts
5 ee l . ,h onnctan .gi
oae rte i s - C it llie rso e wnif
' a a r Id n l a e "ul te ns ong to
,R apiIlu o d TIer nsetad VilaII-,111 t1-l I f "* .~ l j a Spatani t fil b erg ogn row
cAi apropoitin icude b ay motnolgl
to. bus ie menIa o Spaert i a dnburlegs -a ed ' t1-hue'(t .oto ets esmlte'. O h
W o d uf"ni n l n o Laurens a n
l tsso aAnc horlto cnnc tse adI a a
ter-loo~~e 1wiv lotlas "lC l.
Roue~t l~s fo th ies it'ti to ell to ot tfi nUcif
sheriff. Old w ae i aItilu rea n s n .1).h Ji tpe
ve api hTsef f a ia o ht hoi. Much trs igh at Ibi lime" iscdghSpaleti'burgo leconfesse
lie ropsito sly u ler cwy Ing running as shown above cut. A ization of the board of corporators was
trgurly s a en ote S rtanrg, board of corporators was elected at perfected with J. F. Jacobs, of Clin
Woodru.f, Uniof, Cton r eLutrens bnga citizens' meeting at Cross Anchor ton, permanent chairman and Paul V.
arss o h to ak nnwit thesn and April 18. This body met last Tues- Moore, of Spartanburg permanent see
itormedato points by an electric line day at which time a permanent organ- retary.
ONLY WPANTED THE IIIDE. .NIAECMIGOTSb 1aieElcrutd
Plug Ferguson, a Clinton Negro, Stoe
it COW but o y Bothered thimself ,J. TI. ls Ir of the n l
A'bout Selling the Htide.e aiitotiti c Seaetu h
"Plug" Ferguson, a dark-hued denl of R.-e m-r 't ic lofthe wo- as t e a te
zen of Clinton, now rests rachnd the it tiou ' tida i. It, il be re
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1't le id frm tecw lettecw ue th o onty nings t i oton a tThinlg1ho' 'eblti oke f
bars at the county jail on suspicidn
wli ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1 Ico hileppase~( )I i itt ac te, o um rlio a s ft - 1( lie r tho t liIsc ty. B.C a tlel, ofs chrged
of spending a hcirt season with some
body h ' in ac. According Isreports, tiow lede. tg ' H tiy ('out it A. w o f
haoeit osesoio t ( 1Ot nil ~ I 0111 CS~ ye bee'n( bac d lii j Ii'. of Hi lve iie r i ll Y". o t soo owy
P otlu " ade a i d on the pirel is e of a i a f hi i Ctt.
a a. lreaford aenry, and Vills-like, set itIe S. hi. a tca s at- i
came away with a rich hagl, ont m.ileh
ow. Unlike Villa, however, he had DEtOCss s E
on hand more booty than he cared toe
burden humseb!f with. Desiring to dt
vst himself of a part of his holdingsn r t ng s in the ee tin of conty
he proceeded to slay the cow in the u
regbularly approved style, viz., with an
ax. This part of the proceedure being
over with, the decision had to be made f aedelegtion to the ntioa on
as to what to take fith him e wthathe D orats ael d ion ention ti int e tvoef th e r n
to leave beht!nd. After long medita- I ~ n. .n , li u ~ . 11 . rn"i ntIel1,n".'l .L. 1-,.n
-io, e _eede t elctnarlgaertyheSttaway- I mntohteaovntot h
partofated Prisneric auhe. couldoveiln viihwlb el oit-o-ott apag tn
Jimr kntte, ho hescapon ferm tedI 'liil n\e dy a 7.wsntmnind itweeI a
thehen rom h co ,ai soe thne latcow iterpr: f h ovnln icseinterao~yo ae h
and Ruare woim e hiyde.n AbN oper ht hingo hroyca'-~ha a bcm nw a h Ici
asse byf Dheputy theo Celaudhe hw-de, oie ialclyeeyme~gnilcru. 1h roec ovn
haend co nty authssorit. ACouI n- cncun h usadn!Sat ovnint emttepol
wardohadbeers feredo ufo hIs catri faue wsthlosmn o h fte tt ovt i h rmr
aandnitasioaofrresdedyW stoatedissum eren tesqestow fbael
hid the co u y r waturned hoeWlotrivraol.,sm fwih;ihn rkepmgteprsn yt
thM l bnonda fe enoyein the houd s trceehi eeao t upr1I aycute h eeae em
sOpr hs n beInremoled land week e nteSaeCneto eouinfre ifrn nti atr
REMAINS OF W. D. WHARTON
INTERRED AT WATERLOO
Native of this County, but for Many
Years Superintendent of the Ep
worth Orphanage.
The remains of Rev. W. D. Wharton,
who died Friday afternoon at Ep
worth Orphanage, Columbia, were laid
to rest in the Methodist cemetery at
his old home, Waterloo, Sunday after
noon, services being conducted by
itev. T. C. O'Dell, assisted by Rev. Wal
ter I. Ilerbert. A large ecncourso or
people from various parts of this and
adjoining countica attended the fun
eral.
Rev. Mr. Wharton had been a vigor
on1; m1an1 until his health began to fail
aLout two year:, ago, but continued to
labor among the orphan:; over whom
he had charge until a few months ago,
when i!: conditien grew wore. le
va:; t:hen to Daltimoro fer an opera
ton, but wat loo weal; to undergo it
whc:1 he reached the Maryinad city.'
Hl was b:ough t huomie about th:ree
wet;::; ago,.
R1ev. !r. W h:rton wa 57 years of
a;e. Ile wa: a ; a tive of i::uretn:;
(ounty. lie r;. :uim;n ied into the
Sou:!h Carolin:a tle,::ocli conferelce
in 1 :2. l'or th"e 1:lI : ye: .a Ie was
andcc lh:al l;: ;;; c: : i::.-tit ::::on that
and la: dotie its capae y when !e' took
ch::ue. Ile ad lou Cuth instilu-.
t ica fni :' f 1 ins:.ral fc itng by .:
c:arble mana1:ty Ifent.
As a man :.'d a citizen Mr. Wharten
took an ::'ive iutere:t in the welfara
of it.',- ccn:munity, ::tate and country.
Ile wa.; a fine man per.;onally, and an
able preacher.
The late M.\r. Wharton was married
in Novmlui:r, 1877, to Mise \lattie J.
Puckett, who grew up in the .same
community where he was reared. lie
is survived by her and the following
children: Rev. \1, T. Wharton of
Fountain Inn, Mrs. Charles Mc[ough
lin of Atlanta, W. C. Wharton of Wof
ford college and Murray Wharton;
also by the following brothers and
sisters: .1. 13. Wharton of Greenwood,
II. W. Wharton of Waterlop, Mrs. M.
E. Puckett of Laurens county and
Mrs. James Norman of Greenwood.
Revival at Watts.
'The revival campaign which I:; on
at Watt:; Mill, under the leadership
of Rev. V. Ii, Levis, pastor, assisted
by llcv. .1. O. lturnetI, evangelist, of
Tl.cn. C. C.. is ciuder good headway,
cluilt a number have been converted,
and uni:ed \;ith the eimtcurch. The ser
Vice.; ws:: c-ontinlt:c$ through thti.; week,
elo-:e.g ne': t Sunday night. The evana
geli:"t wi:l p-eac'h to m1:en on!y next
Sunday at t::' ,0 P. .l., and a large
crow d is expected. The pteop1e of tih(e
townl and country around will 1 a giv
en a welcome. .Just for men and L.oys
above fifteen year:, of age.
You will miss a treat if you m:ist:
theso services.
SPECI.L FORl VETE h.t NS.
Meabtoardl141111 11ia Will Nend "Wd~i~ler
Spuecial" to t he (ontfedherate lieuionb
Th'le Seaboardi Air l~ine urailwayv is
making sp~ecial prepart;1Iions~ for handcc
ling thce travel to anud fromi llirinilg
hamit for I the(Conftedercate Reuion1(1.
which will be luhId M\ay I1- I . For' the
convenience of thIe \'elerancs. they hcave
arran lgedI to scnd a speltiI us trin fromc
this section)1 of thle state, whtich will bte
knoewn as the "'Waller Special"'. llThis
special will leave Gr.eenav IlIe at 7 ::
on thce mcorniung of M\ay I15th, and wIll
go to G reentwood over' the In teruribani,
arriving at G ainwoodi at 9:3i' A. M.
From Green wcod the spec ial will go
'through to llirmuinghamc on the Sea
boar'd, leaving at 9:45 A. M. A spcecial
coach for Laurens veter'ans and oth
ers will be plaed~ here and will go to
Oreenwood on the motrning train. At
that place it will be attached to the
Seaboar'd Special, wvhich will miake an
alt-day trIll straight through to Birm
lnghani. The round-trip faro from
Laurens wi!l he $7.25. Every possible
arr'an'emenlt is being made to make
thle tip one of immense pleasure, conm
fort andc (elight.
W~Il Sell Oveindis.
A~enilon !a directed to a ~ser'lea of
adl: for the Overland car beginninig in
II:!o ls;;ue. M :. I last Relcy wvill be the
leeal r"ent foir the cor, representing
the Clinton Auto & Repairing Com
pany, co~unty aigents, Mr, Richey
rstatoa that lhe will be glad to demon
strato the car to any one calling on
him in nernon or by telephone.
OIITY CYVNION
PASSED Off QU[IY
No Unpicasant Incidents
Marred the Day.
BLEASE DELEIATES
ARE ELECTED
W. J. Richey, Jr., Electe'd !-t ix.
ccuthle Commiftccwman, I.... ('Doper
Heads Delegation to state (o::en.
Lion. Meeting larnoniot:::.
The meeting of th'e Cou::y e:no-.
Cratie Conven ion, held in f:.e Court.
rouse Mon(ay morning, w 0 (10 of
the (qu ietest Icld in years. Alhough
in the nomlinat.ions and eietion for
state excecutive committMeemn a :::i deo.
e(iates to (lhe State Coriventon i:'a
a11parLent that two faCtion ha-1 been
loosely or:tanized, very litG. f:',(:! oaaI
feeling dvlc'top(i. The e:: i on of
convention oticeri pwe;el (. ':; f it
were routine work, ec 4h o':.e' 1 :big
filied without Opposition. 'Th ( -aven..
ti n went on record as fied:.:i the
rd111in '.iration of i'rcsidcnt 1'.',:durow
\2lt;oni and oo - ; l'ei:g ':O d i)
ab.lolis;hin; rthe counlty-to-cou:::ye:
pa igzn.
The (( ConvenLon een"-vleed 'i-: . }".
Babb, rctiring county chairma:n is th1o
chair. 110'n moot.1ion of \ V.
ton 11 1. ia1h) was eleter (I y--: -r
chairman. V. S. Powr w.. E:: e(d
secretarmy 01nd Ali :son Lee' asixtn 2e2
r etary. A Credentials comam;tee,
coinposed of one momber apo iitcd fy
the chair from each club, then retired
to pass upon the credentia!0 of the
cl delegation. The comlm ittee re
porting favorably on all the credene
tinis reported, it was moved by Mir. W.
L. Gray and carried that the roll of
delegates as reported to the credential
committee be made the permanent roll
of the convention,
Permanent organization then being
in order, the temporary oficcr; wero
elected without opposition. W. L.
Gray and 0. C. Thompson were elect.
ed vice present and treasurer re
spectively without opposition. R. E,
Babb was elected chairman of the ex
Centive committee, which will he com
posed of the executive con:n:ittermen
from each club.
Electron:1 for represenfat::e in 1ho
State (Convention then being :in order,
V. P. Richey, Jr., was non:in:: (d by
Geo. A. Browning, .ir., as ny:::a ..
crutive ('inht:ce man, II. !.. :; ife
u ninn te~d N. It. Dial. \V. :;. l::chey,
.r., wa:; declared cit.ted y a voe of
7:, to t:11.
A:; a I(:legtlion to the Stae ('oeac.
1:on N. Ii. Dial placed til foiiov::;;
.11 : O I , J l.: \tion: , A. .1. . :Cop ,
land, M1. V. C(rispl, J. \V. L..::;n ;( .
If. \'h:arton andi I. I, (ray, in rg
tlar cesio suggestive (;' a p;"e
a.1 rngc(l ti(ket the foll owI! n:ame
\our11 . .l.VI . \Veils, of (; ..::: our,
:1nd .1. ('. \Vork moan, of' (C:::::. wer.I
:also 'i 11nalted. buit recei-:ed 2::i1i..
ble4 x(uppor)t. it. A. ( '0oper l.V:2.dt thoi
ticket and1 the following :evn veoo
elected1 to acomipa ny him to ('olum4..
hh:.1. ii. .\hiller, R. L. Gray, .\. WV.
Ahercr04 obi. \V. hE. icheey, .f.l C,
'ilol aniel, 1i. 8. Blackwell amnd G.* M.
Mloore It will be igen that. three of'
the delegates elected were on the Dilal
ticket and( five wofte from those named
in opposition.
The delegat-ion goes to Columbia in-.
structed to oppose any change in the
rules governing the county-to-county
campaign, resolutionA, as follo'ws, hay
ing been introduced by WV. R. Ilchey,
Jr., and seconded by N, 11. Dial:
"Whereas this Convention has been
informnedi that there is a movement on
foot to have the Sbate iDemocratio
Contecntion ~oillh the piresent method
of county to cojnnty campaign me'et
ings and( to abolish the present method
of township campaign for eouinty' ofhi
cers.
"And wheroas the sentiment of this
convention is o1posed to any sneh
changes.
"Therefore be it resolved:
"That tho Inuirons County D~emo
eratic Convontion do instruct its dele-.
gates to the State Convention to vota
against any resolution which wight bei
offered to change tM present metliodi
(Continued on Page Four.)
