Mew
and Citizen
The prophet who isn't known in his
own country can safely lay the blame
at the door of poor advertising Proof
A man doesn't know what is in him
until he tries and he hasn't tried
until he has advertised Scribe
V
4
XXXV, NO. 31
HYDE FA UK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 1916.
$1.25 A YEAR
TAX SERVICE
If you do.,V, Mit to ride too fast, I
will accomm; .', )my old friends and
new ones with v good car.
Prices right. Prompt and careful
service guaranteed.
A. J, Smith,
Tel. 131 10 Morrisvllle.
FRIENDS, I AM SURE YOU
Have begun Cleaning House and I hope
you will save your Junk for me. I will pay you a
fair price for your junk now. I have fasted East
er week and am ready for business. Right prices
always. Save your papers and bottles of all de
scriptions. Thanks for past patronage. Watch for
ABE COHEN
JdorrlsviUe Junk Man, Randolph St.
Telephone 133-10
P. S Fetch Calves and Calfskins. Will pay
aiighest price tor them.
DRY..fiLBANING!
WE ARE EEADY TO SERVE YOU 1
Mail orders given Prompt At
tention. The finest garments
returned as good as new.
3. Hi. GOODKIN
PORTLAND ST, - MORRISVILLE, VT.
Ladies' and Gent's Tailor
AUTO STAGE, GREENSBORO BEND
To BARTON Daily, Except Sunday
Kieave Greensboro at 10.30 a. m. ; Leave
Hotel Barton 3.15 p. re.; connecting with
trains west. Starts Monday, May 8th.
FARE, St. BO EACH WAV
N.E Phone " C. B. STERNBERG.
BIG DEMAND 1 Will
pay $8 to $9 per ton de
livered at Morrisville. I
want everything you
have to sell in old Junk
OSCAR KAHN
Tel. 25-5 Lake Street, Morrisville, Vt.
( Morrisville's Original Junk Man!
II
V A Magic Word j
r In a Magic I
S Advertise
At Saleeby's
Good Things . Don't
Or Wait
That's why our Women's Suits, Coats and
Dresses are selling so fast They are too good
values to hang very long on our racks. New
ones keep coming in
something new to our
line complete.
New Washable Silk Waists at $1.98
Beautiful House Dresses at $1.00 and $1.25
Silk and Washable Gloves, in black,
white and colors at
25c,
Special Values in Men's Rain Coats at $5.00
Young Men's Nifty Suits, just arrived,
all colors, at
$10.00, $12.50, $15.00 and $17.50
A. J. SALEEBY
THE STORE THAT SAVES YOU MONEY."
JOHNSON, j j VERMONT
BUSINESS NOTICES.
Wanted. To buy some good Hens.
A. W. WAITE, MORRISVILLB.
For Sale One Sheep and one Calf Power;
also Keg. Guernsey Bull is mos. old.
M. E. Brewster, Johnson.
Wanted at Once. A Capable Boy,iJ ori6
years of age, for farm work.
Tel. 1 1-4 W. F. Sinclair, Johnson
For Sale. One Jersey Bull, coming two, solid
color ; three Yearling Bulls to turn out ; one White
Chester Brood Sow. n. J. bashaw, siowe.
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
waives, Cheap -cows, Bulls ana nogs.
Tel. 1 24-3 1 John Miner, Hyde Park.
Wantbd. A Girl for General Housework in a
family of three, near Brockton, Mass. For par
ticulars address Mrs. N. J. Perry.
Telephone 11 3 Johnson.
For Sale. Full set Ford automobile wheels.
Sound and newly painted. One 30x3 automobile
tire too eood for the iunkman. A bareain if vou
are interested. Dr. C. S. Leach, Hyde;Fark.
For Sale. Eggs For Hatching. Pure Bred
Barred Plymouth Kocks. The best laying flock I
ever owned or heard of. See their record. Eggs
selected and fertility guaranteed. First setting
sold, hatched every egg. One setting per day.
50 cents a setting.
Dr. C. S. Leach, Hyde Park.
MOKRISVILLE
Mrs. Walter Churchill visited friends
a part of last week in Burlington.
Willis Mould returned Saturday to
Mineville, N. Y., after visiting his father,
Fred W. Mould.
The next regular meeting of the W. R.
C. will be held at G. A. R. hall next
Monday evening.
D. W. Durgan has rented Mrs. Mae
Bundy's house on Maple street and will
move there from the Munson block.
Hon. and Mrs. Geo. A. Morse left last
Saturday to attend the General Conler
ence of Methodist Churches at Saratoga,
H. M. Mcintosh of Burlington has
been in town this week, surveying Jrr
the village in the vicini.ty oftheBuKr.ee
springs, 5- "' - l" -- ,':
The post office will close at 8:30 on
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Fn
day nights, hereafter. At nine o'clock
the other nights. '
The P. A. base ball team will play St.
Johnsbury Academy here next Saturday
afternoon. This will be a good game
and should be given liberal patronage.
J. P. Roy baa moved his barbershop to
his new rooms in the Burke Block on
Portland street. . The rooms vacated by
bitn on Main street will be occupied by
Mrs. Roy as a millinery store.
Keep
every day. that adds
stock and keeps every
50c, $1.00 and $1.39
Miss Beryl Powell of Jefferconvllle is a
guest of Miss Gwendolen Smith.
Mrs. C. S. Cleveland goes to Montpel
ier tbisweek, where she will reside.
R. G. Reynolds of Montpelier has been
in town a couple of days this week.
Judge Powers was one of the speakers
at the Rlchford Board of Trade banquet
last- week. 1 .
Mrs. A. J. Fnmeroy of East Fair6eld
was a guest of relatives in town last
Wednesday'. ... '.
Mr. George Batiye has returned from
Fanny Allen hospital, where she under-,
went an operation.
A son, Daniel, was born to Mr. and
Mrs. Dan Draper on the Elmore Moun
tain road last Thursday.
B. E. Eaton was in Hyde Park last
Saturday and purchased the tinsmith
tools of the late William Maxfield.
Mrs. J. A. Barnes, who visited her
daughter, Mrs. Mae Bundy, for a week,
returned to Bakersfield Saturday.
Mrs. Sarah Kendall and daughters,
Mrs. Jordan Lambert and Miss Ila Ken
dall, spent Saturday in Burlington.
Curtis Colby returned last week from
Fanny Allen hospital, where he under
went an operation for appendicitis.
George Robson and daughter, Eltha,
were in St. Albans last week to attend
the funeral of the former's aunt, Mrs. J,
T. Robson.
Mrs. W. D. Willey of Cambridge is
spending some time with her aunt, Mrs.
N. B. Blair, who returned here last week
from Buffalo, N. Y.
Warner Gilbert is planning to make
extensive alterations and additions to
the barns on his farm in the south part
of town this summer.
Rev. Baker is away this week in New
York City, in attendance upon the
"World's Court Congress", he being one
of the Vermont delegates. ' ; ,. ',
Mrs. H. Ray ' and two daughters of
Mooers, N.Y., who have visited the home
ol her brother, George Lavarn way, re
turned home Saturday evening.
1
Mr. and Mrs. Dennis Rouban of Woods
ville, N. H are the parents of an 8Y4.
pounds daughter, born last Saturday,
The young lady has been christened Ruth
Georgiaona. w
., Miss Ira Holmes, a student at Mont
pelier Seminary, is at Mary Fletcher hos -
pital for treatment. - Her father, D. D,
Holmes, will go to Burlington this week
to visit her. ' ,; ' ii -.' ,
Mrs. Lizzie St. Louis returned to, Lit,
tleton, N. H., Monday after a visit with
relatives and friends in town. She was
accompanied by her sister, Annie,, who
will make her home there.
Miss Vida Grant went to Hard wick,
Saturday, returning with her grand
mother, Mrs. Sarah Grant, who has
passed the winter in Hard wick with her
daughter; Mrs. Alton Parks, v -.rsoj
h The" May meeting of the W. C". T.'-'tf".
will be held this week Friday at 2 p. tn
at the home of Mrs. Emma Marvin.
Plans will be made and delegates elected
for the coming County Convention. A
special request is made that every mem
ber be present.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles S.Hastings have
purchased the John C. Peck place on El
more street and will take possession at
once. Mr. aad Mrs. Peck will spend a
part of the time this summer with their
daughter, Mrs. W. O. Jeflords, in East
Hardwick. Their many friends hope they
will decide to continue their residence in
this vicinity.
Pastor Given Birthday Party
The members of the Methodist society
to the number of about two hundred
gathered at the church parlors Monday
evening, the occasion being a surprise
birthday party for the pastor, Rev. W.
T. Best. The arrangements were so
well carried out that the affair was a
complete surprise to the guest of honor,
who went to church at about eight
o'clock to attend a meeting of the Delta
Alpha class, when he found a large com
pany assembled, the rooms being pretti
ly decorated for the occasion in red and
green, the arrangement resembling a
roof garden. The full significance of the
occasion did not occur to Mr. Best until
he was presented with carnations, the
number corresponding to the years of
his life-
The evening was most pleasantly
spent, a musical and literary program be
ing an enjoyable feature, including pipe-
organ selections by Harlie Wilson, piano
solos by Marion Benson, vocal selections,
Mrs, Ila Nile Jackson, two songs, J. A.
Waite, recitations, T. B. Ellis, piano
duet, Mts. C. 11. Ravmore and Mrs. A
W. Waite and piano trio by Mrs. Waite,
Mrs. Ray more and Miss Reba Skinner.
In behalf of the company H. Waite
presented Mr. Best with a large Web
ster s dictionary and stand. Refresh
ments of ice cream and cake were served
by the Philathea class. A birthday cake
made by Mrs. Will Warren and decorat
ed with candles, was presented Mr. Best. I
The Morrisville Band v
Under the able direction of Don San
ders the Morrisville Band has done
vast amount of hard practicing the past
winter and is now better than ever. The
younger members have taken hold finely
and the improvement in all directions is
decidedly noticeable It won't be long
before the open air concerts will begin
as we understand the nrst appearance
wil be Memorial Day.
..
The Masonic Temple
; The Morrlsvilie Masonic Temple move
ment is progressing finely. The fund is
now nearing $8,000 thanks to the gen
erous subscriptions from home people as
well as those from outside. The neigh
boring towns have done finely. Hyd
Park, Johnson and Stowe are entitled to
especial credit. Generous subscriptions
have come in from far away friends
among the latest being $100 from H
Wilson of Oregon, a former Morrlsvilie
boy. Others are joining in the move and
the question now is, Have you taken a
oart in this worthy enterprise? If not,
get in touch at once with the committee.
- ,'" "
Public Horse Sheds
, If Morrisville wishes to get into the
good graces of those who come here to
do trading and transact business she can
doit in no better way than to provide
some suitable place for people to put up
their teams. The Metbodistchurch sheds
and a few other places are used, but in
variably they are crowded and It Is al
most impossible to find a place in the vil
lage to hitch a team for a short time
The sheds that are available are in
dilapidated condition and It would not
be surprising if the Health Officer should
get after them and pronounce them un
sanitary. A string of sheds, properly
built and properly taken care of, would
not only be the means of drawing trade
here, but would incur the lasting praises
of those who now find it impossible to
get their team under cover while here to
trade. Let there be a move in this di
rection.
St. Johnsbury's Exposition
f The merchants and manufacturers of
St, Johnsbury are arranging for a big in
rjustrial exposition there May 17-20,
nd the spare is all engaged in a big two
Story manufacturing plant for the ex bib
lt of St; johnsbury products and the
wares of St. Johnsbury merchants. A
number f interesting features are sched
uled for the week, including an automo
bile parade, a civic parade, a procession
of antiques and horribles and two ball
games. J, Over 100 exhibitors have en
gaged space for this show and many in
teresting features will be seen from day
to day. The Exposition building will be
decorated by professionals and filled with
a varied exhibit of home products, as
well as many others from all parts of
the country. It is planned to. make this
both educational and entertaining and
thousands are expected to visit St
Johnsbury that week.
Death of "Wick" Fields
The many friends in Morrisville of
"Wick" Fields learned with regret of his
death, which occurred in North Wolcott
last week Wednesday, at the home of his
niece, Mrs. Sanlord Place, where be had
made bis home for some time. He had
been in poor health for several years and
his condition failed rapidly for the last
few weeks.
Wilkinson Ebeneezer Fields was born
August 3, 1839, and was therefore near
ly 77 years of age. He lived in Moiris-
ville about 25 years. He was a genial,
kind-hearted man, and easily made and
retained friends. These characteristics
were not dimmed by old age and infirmi
ties, and he will be pleasantly remem
bered by a large circle of friends.
Besides his niece in North Wolcott, be
is survived by a niece, Mrs. Newland.the
wife of a Newport physician, and Mrs.
E. H. Borden of Durato, Calif.
The funeral was held Friday from the
home, Rev. R. D. Cranmer officiating,
and M. H. White having charge of the
funeral. Burial was in Pleasant View
Cemety.
Splendid Y. P. S. C. Meeting
A very interesting meeting was that
held at the Cong'l church last Saturday
evening in the interest of the Y. P. S. C.
E. movement. The speakers were W il-
liam Shaw. L. L. D., of Boston, general
secretary of the United Society of Chris
tian Endeavor, who had for his theme
"Mobilize, Vitalize, Evangelize," and C.
C Hamilton, field secretary of the Ohio
State Union, who spoke upon "The
World Program in Christian Endeavor."
Both speakers were decidedly interesting
and spoke very encouragingly of Chris
tian Endeavor work. There was agood
attendance, several being present from
Johnson, Jeffersonyille and North Hyde
Park. From this place the speakers went
to Randolph for a similar meeting Sun
day evening.
Mrs. J. M. Kelley was a visitor in Bur
ling last Monday. J
UIDUSTML
lW 17-20, 1916, ST- JOHNSBURY
The Manufacturers and Merchants
of St. Johnsbury will observe
the 125th Anniversary of
Vermont's admission to
the Union by a grand
TRADE CARNIVAL
At the Exposition Building, where 20,000 square feet of floor
space has been engaged by One Hundred Exhibitors. All the lead
ing makes of Automobiles, and the "Made in St. Johnsbury"
products, educational exhibits, merchant's displays, and a Food
Fair will be combined in the largest and BEST SHOW ever held
in Northeastern Vermont.
FOUR GALA DAYS !
VVeclnesclriy Opening
Tlxwarstaajr Vermont Day, with a big automobile parade
Ericlas? Merchants' Day. with an entertainment by the St.
.,.. jonnsoury Academy students in tne evening.
Saturday-St. Johnsbury Day, with a Ball Game in the
afternoon and in
Open Daily from 10 a. m. to 10 p.
afternoon and evening. ADMISSION TEN CENTS. Oome to the Exposition
and Bee its many exhibits and attractions.
Death of Former Resident
Mrs. John T. Woods, formerly Miss
Rosa Rock of Morristown, died in Bos
ton last week, after an illness of only
three days from diphtheria. The remains
were .brought to Morrisville Saturday
and the funeral was held from St.
Theresa's church in Hyde Park Sunday
afternoon. The bearers were her four
brothers, Frank, John, James and Ed
ward. Burial was in the family lot in
Hyde Park.
Those who accompanied the remains
to Morrisville were her husband, Mrs.
Joseph Gwinn and Misses Bessie and
Sarah Rock 6T BrodMrneaWMrraad
Mrs. Frank Holmes of Everett, Mass. v.
The deceased was born in Morristown
Nov. 5, 1872, one of a large family of
children of Mr. and Mrs. James Rock.
She spent her girlhood days in this vicin
ity but had resided in Boston for a nam
of years. She was married August 27,
1907, to John T. Woods. She is survived
by her parents and the following sisters
and brothers: Mrs. Albert Whitcomb,
Hyde Park; Mrs. Joseph Nestor, Jersey
City; Miss Margaret Rock, Barre.Mrs.
Fred DeLaurier, Montpelier; Mrs. Frank
Hoi mes, Everett, Mass., Mrs. Lewis
Liberty, Morrisville; Mrs. Joseph Gwinn,
and Misses Sarah and Bessie Rock, Brook-
line, Mass.; Frank of Stowe; Edward of
Barre, John and James of Lyndonville.
May Floor Covering Sale
M. B. White & Co.. advertise a Mav
floor covering sale to begin tomorrow,
which will be of special interest to every
housewife in Lamoille county. The bar
gains offered are unusual, especially at a
time when the goods are in the greatest
demand, and no doubt manv will tak.
advantage of this opportunity to save
money. See page four for particulars.
F, C. LUCE CO.
SPECIAL SALE
Ladies' Suits & Dresses
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY .
MAY 4 AND 5 .
At this time we shall make a Special Showing of the
atest Styles in Ladies' FOOTWEAR
You are cordially invited to this Exhibit.
F. 0. LUCE CO.,
EMTIO!!
Day and Ball Game-
the evening a grand
m. Musio and other entertainment
The cottages over in bamoset are being
repaired and put in good order for the
summer visitors, who will soon be here.
Dr. Slayton has already closed with sev
eral. for the summer some former pat
rons and some new ones.
HYDE PARK
"The Time of His Life" at the Opera
House next week Thursday. -
R. W.Hulburd is to deliver the Memor
ial Day address at North Troy.
To the regret of many, Miss Peaslie.L.
C.A. preceptress, will not return here
TfMiss Laura Porter, of, the U, V. M. wa
in town Tuesday on matters pertaining
to the L. C. A. Miss Clara Gardner,
from the same college, was here on a like
errand to-day. ,
, The village trustees have organized by
the election of F. M. Culver chairman.
The following appointments have been
made : Chief Engineer Fire Dep'i, James
Eaton; First Ass't, Clarence Sinclair:
Second Ass'f, Page Uff ord ; Healit h Officer,
DrC. S. Leach.
The Col. McFarland prize speaking last
evening was well attended. The prize
winners were : 1st, Waldo Buckham ; 2d,
Harold Stewart; 3d, tie between Freda
Hurlbut and Noyes Stevens. AH the par
ticipants acquitted themselves finely and
showed careful trainiog and thorough'
preparation. Although she did not win
a prize Glenella Foss deserves special no
tice for the exceptionally good manner in
which she rendered her pieee. The judges
were Prin. Davis and Prof. Siple of John
ton and Miss Albertson. The program is
given in full on page 3. Prof. Crosby,
Dr. Leach and Mrs. Crosby rendered sev
eral instrumental selections, which added
to the interest of the occasion.
MORRISVILLE
