\
Society Doings
See Miss Will's Newsy and Ac
curate Reports in The T.-D.
What's the Answer?
Get It From Timcs-Dispatch
Information Bureau
66th YEAR
voi.l'MK il?
m m iii ;it sun
RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1916. ?TWELVE PAGES.
wkathkk
i?\c;i: o
-CLEAR
PRICE, TWO CENTS
ALLIES NDI READY
TO DISCUSS PEACE
TERMS, SAYS GREY
But Welcome Any , Efforts
by Neutrals to Prevent
Future Wars.
MUST HAVE GUARANTEES
THAT PEACE IS SECURE
Entente Countries, Together and
Not Separately, Will State and
Formulate Conditions.
DAILY, VICTOIfU IS NEAIlKlt
Secretary of Foreign Affairs Speaks
at Luncheon Given l?y Kori'lRii
I'ress Association.
I My Apwlated I
T(OXDO.\', October 23.?Another im
portant ent tribntion to the discussions
on peace' was made by Viscount Grey,
Secretary f'.r Foreign Affairs, at a
luii'-iicon given to-rlay by tho Foreign
I'ress Association, at which the dlplo
mati< rep resen tati ves of all the allied
countries were present.
Tho Forelun Secretary made it plain
that the allies were not prepared to
discuss peace terms, and gave no in
dication of what their terms might be.
but welcomed any efforts by neutral
countries for a combination to prevent
future wars.
"I would like to talk, not, indeed,
about actual conditions of peace, which
can only be stated and formulated by
the allies together, and not by any
one nf them separately, but about the
genera! objects which the allies must
secure In this war." said the secretary,
"and to do that I would ask you to
retail that we must never forget how
the war came about. If we are to
approach peace in a proper spirit. It
can only lie by recollecting and recall
ing and never for a moment forget
ting what was the real cause of the
war.
"Homo people say, 'Oh! we need not
go back over that obi ground now;
everybody knows it."
"You cannot go back to it too often:
It affects the conditions "f peace, Ger
n.nnv talks of peace: her statesmen
talk of peace \o-day. Tliey say, 'Ger
many Inust have guarantees against
being attacked again.'
LOGIC.M. It-" \V A It IIAI)
IIISIC.N* KUIICKI) OX OK It MANY
1 "If this war had been forced upon
Germany, that would be a logical
statement. It is precisely because It
was not forced upon Germany, hut was
forced by Germany upon Kurope, that
It is the allies who must have guaran
tees for future peace.
"In July, 1911. no one thought of
attacking Germany. It is said that
Russia was the tirst to mobilize. That,
I understand, is what is reported in
Germany as Justification for the state
ment that the war was not an aggres
sive war on Germany's part, but was
forced upon her.
"Russia never made the mobilization,
of which Germany has con>plaine<], un
til after Germany refused a confer
ence, and never made it until after the
report appeared in Germany that Ger
many had ordered mobilization, and
that report had been telegraphed to
Pet rot rad.
"The whole plan of campaign of the
German stafT was to attack through
Belgium, and now it is reported that
they had to attack through Belgium
because other people had planned to
attack through Belgium. I would like
nothing better than to see those state
ments that Russia's mobilization was
an aggressive one, and that other
powers, any other power, had trafficked
in the neutrality of Belgium or
planned an attack through Belgium?
I would like to sec those statements
investigated before any independent,
impartial tribunal.
"German organization is very suc
cessful in some things, but in nothing
more successful than in preventing the
truth from reaching their people, and
in presenting to them a point of view
which is not that of truth."
<; Kit M A X V K RI'TSKS
TO ATTKM) CONFRItKXCE
Kir Edward said that when England
proposed a conference, Germany re
fused to participate, though Russia,
| France and Italy were ready to accept,
and that Germany had also refused the
offer of The Hague tribunal, made by
the Czar.
"All efforts to avoid the war in 1014
failed," he continued, "because you can
not have peace without good will, and
because in Germany there was a will
to war and not the will to peace.
"We were asked by Germany to re- j
main neutral on certain conditions.
! We were asked to condone the viola
tion of the neutrality of Belgium, and
to give Germany a free hand to take
whatever French colonies she liked.
That was the plan?not only to isolate
us. but to discredit us.
"I ask any neutral what would have
been the future of this country if the
British government had accepted such
mi offer. There would have, been no
moral", no spirit, no nation. We
should have incurred the contempt of
' the whole world. Happily, tactics so
yross did not succeed.
"I take it on the word of the. Prime
Minister that we shall fight until we
liavo established the supremacy and
right of free development tinder equal
conditions, each in accordance with
its genius, of all states, great and
small, as a family of civilized man
kind."
l'assing to tlie position of tho neu
tral countries, Viscount Grey said, in
answer to a question as to what they
could do:
"I believe tho best work neutrals
can do for tho moment is to try to
prevent a war like this from happen
ing again. lf.tho nations had been
united in su^h an agroemont and
prompt resolution in 1914, that the die
~ ((Continued on Sccoml Pago.)
V
N. Y. Democrats
Will Visit Wilson
Tammany Hall Announces Ar
rangements for Trip to
Shadow Lawn.
( Uy Ahmo< latr?l Press.)
NEW YOllK, October "3.?Two traln
loads of Democrats from this city will
go to President Wilson's summer home
at Long Branch, X. J., next Saturday
afternoon, the executive committee of
Tammany llall announced to-night.
Plans were completed to-day for the
wind-up of the campaign in this city
on November 4, when President Wil
son' will make his only campaign
speech here in Madison Square Garden,
j The parade to precede the meeting-,
Tammany llall ofllcials declared to-1
night, will be one of the mostvLmpres
slve political demonstrations the city
has ever witnessed.
Samuel Gompers, president of the
American Federation of Labor, an
nounced here to-night that he would
to-morrow take the slump for Presi
dent Wilson.
AMIIASSADOIt liKltAim
TO MK1S WILSON TO-llAY
IBy Ai'wtcliileJ I'rew.l ^
LONG BRANCH, X. J., October 23.?
James Gerard. American ambassador to
Germany, will see President Wilson
| here to-morrow for the lirst time since
| ills return from Berlin. It Is expected
J Mr. Gerard will report to the President
I on the otticial popular attitude in Ger
i many toward the submarine question.
1 Peace and other subjects also may be
t discussed.
HELD IN BLACKMAIL PLOT
I llrooklvn Itestnurnnt Owner Cliariced
With Fraud liy Means of the
Mann Act.
? IU' A ssocl?it*d Pri-fK 1
j NEW YORK, October 23.?Details of
? the operations of the alleged country-)
wide "blackmail syndicate" were ampli
| tied here to-day when charges were
; filed against James A. Brown, a
| Brooklyn restaurant owner, asserting
that, in company with Kdward Dona
1 hue sind William Butler, he had Imper
I son.iled a government ofllcer in At
j lantic City on September 30. 1915, "so
j as to defraud a certain person, whose
j name at the present time is withheld
for public policy."
Brown was arrested here Saturday
nlghJ. in connection with the frauds,
which, the authorities said, were per
petrated in many parts of the country
by means of the Mann act. Members
of the conspiracy are said to have se
cured $21,500 In Atlantic City alone.
Donahue and Butler are held in
Tombs Prison awaiting trial. Homer
T. French, another member of the
alleged "syndicate," pleaded guilty to
j day of extorting <15,030 from Alfred
1 B. West, a tea and coffee merchant.
; and was sentenced to eighteen months
in the Federal prison at Atlanta.
BABY'S EYES WORTH $25,000
Court fJlves Verdict to Parents of One
Yelir-Old Child A^nlnnl CSrnd
mite Midwife.
I nv Associated Press 1
SAN FRANCISCO, October 23.?The |
value of a baby's eyes was fixed at j
$25,000 to-day by Judge Murasky, in I
Superior Court, who gave judgment for \
that amount to the parents of Mary I
Ftubio, one year old. against Mrs.
Amalia Razxuoll, a graduate midwife.
It was alleged that the midwife failed
' to care for the baby's eyes properly
j at birth, and now the eyes are sight- j
less.
"A pair of baby's eyes are priceless,"
said Judge Murasky. "No amount of
money that ^this or any court could
give, no matter how large the amount,
would compensate for the loss of this
baby's sight."
CLARK SPEAKS FOR WILSON
Devote* Himself l.nrgely to Domestic
(liiextionx Arising During
Administration^
fRv Assort a ted Press!
GREENVILLE, KY? October 23.?
Champ Clark. Speaker of the House,
addressing a large audience at thel
courthouse here late to-day in behalf
of President Wilson, voiced approval
of the administration's record.
He devoted himself largely to a dis
cussion of domestic questions which
arose during President Wilson's admin
istration. Referring to the Adamson
eight-hour law, he emphasized the fact
that a majority of the Republican votes
in the lower house had been cast in Its
favor, and asserted that a determined
effort by a single member of the Sen
ate would have blocked Its passage.
BUILDS 225 SUBMARINES
Germany i'nylng .More Attention to
Construction of Underwater Hants
Than to Battleships.
I H>" Associated Pro.?!i |
GENEVA. SWITZERLAND. October
23 (via Paris).?Prince von Buelow,
formtfr German Imperial Chancellor,
recently informed a neutral newspaper
man that since the beginning of the
war Germany had constructed 225 sub
marines, says a dispatch from Con
stance. The German naval authorities,
the prince is reported to have added,
are paying more attention to sub
marines than to battleships, and Aus
tria-Hungary is doing likewise.
DR. L. M'LANE TIFFANY DIES
Prominent Surgeon Posse* Awny nt
Country Home In Accomnc
County.
BALTIMORE, Ml)., October 23.?Dr.
L. McLano Tiffany, surgeon of inter
national note, died to-day at his coun
try home, Mount Custls, Accomnc Coun
ty, Va., of heart trouble. He was sev
enty-two years old.
Dr. Tiffany, a native of Baltimore,
was educated nt Cambridge University,
in England. Ho was emeritus profes
sor of medicine at the University of
Marvland, and wag for IIfteen years
surgeon-in-chief of the Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad. At one time he also
was consulting surgeon at Johns Hop
kins.
ADDS TO CHARGES
Democratic Committee Issues
"Second Installment" in
O'Leary-Deal Case.
DEMANDS COMPLIED WITH
G. O. P. Candidate Declares He
Has Nothing to Say Concern
ing Latest Accusation.
NEW YORK, October 22.?The Demo
cratic National Committee to-night is
sued what it termed the "second in
stallment" of eh a rges that a secret
agreement exists between Charles 13.
Hughes, Republican presidential nomi
nee, and the American Independence
Conference, of which Jeremiah A.
O'Leary is one of the heads.
To-night's statement, the Democratic I
National Committee announced, "is j
based upon the official records of the
I O'Leary organization." and attemots to
! show l?y excerpts from Mr. Hughes's
I speeches what is alletred to be a corn
! pi i a nee with the "demands" sani to'
j have been made upon the Republican
nominee by O'Leary and his associa es. |
The statement issued to-night by j
the Democratic National Committee i
was read over the telephone to the |
secretary of Mr. Hughes at Montclalr,
N. J. Mr. Hughes declared he had
nothing to say to-night concerning it,
o'l.iiAiiv savs in <;iii:s
STATICS CASK COHItECTIjY
7ererniah A. O'Leary, in a statement
to-night, said, in part, in reference to
the Democratic committee's statement
of Sunday:
"Governor Hughes has stated eor-j
rectiy what happened at our interview;
with him. In order to prevent any
possibility of misunderstanding or mis
representation, we had carefully re
ruced to writing what we wished to
say to Mr. Hughes. Our statement
speaks for itself. The man who at
tempts to find fault with any portion
of it. particularly with the question we
asked, 'whether or not .Mr. Hughes
would administer the presidency of the
"United States in accordance with the
spirit of the fathers and the whole j
American people,' is not u true Ameri- !
can."
Mr. O'Leary says there was nothing
secret about the conference, and asked,
"Why should there be?" He said the
interview was given by request.
SKIItKItl.ICH SUPPOHTS
DKMAI, MADE T1V III'RIIES
A telegram from Frank Seiberlich,
of lloston, was given out here to-day
by the Republican National Commit- ;
tee in support of the denial by Charles j
E. Hughes last nipht of the Democratic j
National Committee's charge that the !
Republican nominee entered into a se- |
cret agreement with the American In- i
dependence Conference, of which Set- j
berlich and Jeremiah A. O'Leary are j
members. The telegram reads:
"The statement made by Mr. Hughes'
relative to conference with committee
of the American Independence Con- 1
ference is absolutely true. Mr. Hughes j
saw the committee, of which I was a
member, made no promises, did not
criticize Theodore Roosevelt and made
a statement to the committee that he
stood for all American rights."
William K. Willcox, Republican Na
tional chairman, said the telegram was :
voluntary.
Mr. Willcox to-day characterized '
the Democratic committee's report as
a "fiasco" attempt to prove a "hyphe- i
nate alliance," on Mr. Hughes's part, j
"There is not a shred of evidence that
Mr. Hughes had knowledge that j
O'Leary would make a statement to \
the American Independence Conference!
of promises to frame his speech to
please the hyphenates," declared Mr. j
Willcox.
DEMOCRATIC COMMITTBE
filVKS OUT MOKE DETAILS
The Democratic National Committee
made public to-day what were de
scribed as "additional details concern- j
ing the personnel of the chief pro- ?
moters of the American Independence;
Conference?the secret, racial organi
zation which it is now admitted by
Charles 13. Hughes and Chairman
Willcox of the Republican National
Commission has impersonal and direct
communication with both the Repub
lican national candidate and his cam
paign managers,"
The statement gives a list of persons
whose letters and telegrams were read
at tlie conference, and says that "it
appears that Carl K. Schmidt, of De
troit, was elected to act as national
chairman of the organization," and
that O'Leary was appointed chairman
of a committee on plans. Committees t
on platform and permanent organiza- j
tion were also selected, the statement i
says. These committees subsequently, j
it is asserted, made formal reports i
which "constitute another amazing j
chapter in the history of relations of i
this extraordinary secret political or
ganization. which will be made public
In due season."
"It is suitlcient at this time to point
out," the statement continues, "that
after, and as a result of the secret
personal conference between Candidate
Hughes and the O'Leary committee, and ^
after and as a result of the secret |
negotiations between the promoters of j
the O'Leary organization and Mr. i
Hughes's campaign managers, the fol
lowing declaration in behalf of Charles J
10. Hughes, was incorporated as the*
main plank of the platform of the
organization: 'We call upon the Ameri
can people to uso f the opportunity
which the present campaign offers to
condemn the abject surrender of Amer
ican rights to Mexico and European I
nations, and lo support a man who I
openly pledged himself unflinchingly j
to maintain these rights against all
nations.' "
ASIIBVIM.K-ATI.ANTK-IIIRMINflllAM
NEW OUI.KANH-TKXAS.
Three trains dally via Southern Jty.?Adv.
Deputies Make Ruling in Regard
to Those Who Are Communi
cants in Episcopal Church.
REJECT WOMEN AS DELEGATES
Resolution Changing Present Sys
tem of Equal Diocesan Repre
? sentation Is Refused.
I Hy Associated Pr?-ss. |
ST. LOUIS, October li3.?Jews who
have accepted Jesus Christ as the
Messiah ami have become communi
cants of the Protestant Episcopal
Church tnay retain, if they desire, the
Jewish national anil racial customs and
feasts, according to a ruling of the
house of deputies of (he church's gen
eral convention, in session here to-day.
It was asserted that there are in the i
United States hundreds of Jews who
liavo accepted Christ, and yet have j
hesitated to afliliate with Christian j
denominations because they do not '
care to abandon their racial customs.
Efforts to have women permitted to !
sit as delegates in the house of depu- j
ties of the general conference wore
abandoned to-day when, 011 the heels '
of a rejection at the hands of the
house of bishops, a lower house com- ?
mittee^repj^/ted the proposal adversely.
It. If. Gardiner, of Gardiner, Me.,
sponsor lor the movement, consented
to his resolution being tabled.
The house of deputies refused by dio
,cesan vote to adopt the resolution of a
special committee proposing the pres
ent system of equal diocesan repre
sentation in the house of deputies to
be changed to one of proportionate
representation. Several hours of de
bate preceded the vote.
KKFI Si; yo filVK VOTE
TO SfFFlUOAX II1SIIOP
The lower house refused to confer
with the house of bishops in its action
givinir a vote in the upper house to
suffragan bishop. Concurrent action is
necessary. However, the lower house
adopted a resolution providing for 1
constitutional amendment allowing
suffragans to substitute in the event
of the death or disability of the
bishop.
The house of bishops to-day rejected
a proposal to open to the press and
public their sessions, which have been
held behind closed doors since the first
triennial convention in 17S9.
Employers of the United States
should give a larger consideration to
the problem of the unemployable. Rev.
Ernest M. Stires, of New York, said In
an address in the social-service forum
of the Protestant Episcopal General
Convention here to-day. Dr. Stires
distinguished between the unemployed,
"those ahle to work and unable to
obtain employment," and the "unem
ployable, those who would work, but
are Incapacitated by physical or mental
infirmities."
He urged that Christians through
out the country follow the lead of the
Morgan Memorial, of. lioston, and the
good-will industries of Brooklyn in
saving the self-respect of the unem- j
ployable by giving them three or four
hours' worlt daily, such as they can do
despite their Infirmities.
Over some opposition the re-election
of ISishop Arthur Seblen Lloyd as presi
dent of the board of missions, the most
important board of the church, was
confirmed in the house of deputies to
day. He previously had been re-elected
by the house of bishops.
OPPOSITION AS PROTEST TO
i'AX-A.MKHICAX COXKBREXCE
The opposition, according to state
ments made on the floor of the house,
was intended as a protest against the
action of the board in sending repre
sentatives to a Pan-American Mission
ary Conference of Protestant denomi
nations In Panama last February over
the objections of several members. Re
election of George Gordon King, of
Newport, R. I.? as treasurer of the
board of missions and the elections of
the members by the house of bishops
also were confirmed in the lower house.
A resolution offered in the house of
deputies by Rev. Martin Aigner, of
Franklin, Pa., and referred to tlie com
mittee on'prayer books, would substi
tute the words "of the Holy Catholic
Church" on the title page of the prayer
book for the words "of the church."
Loaders of th? convention assertedSthat
since the church is named in its con
stitution "The Protestant Episcopal
Church of the United States of Amer
ica," the proposed substitution can
have no effect on the church title.
Earlier declarations that there prob
ably would be no attempt in this con
vention to change the church name
were reiterated.
The fifty years of service as a bishop
of the. Right Rev. Daniel S. Tuttle, of
St. Louis, presiding bishop of thd
church, was commemorated to-day at a j
joint session of the two houses. The
Right Rev. Davis Sessums, Bishop of
Louisiana, pa'd tribute to the work of
ISishop Tuttle, especially that of his
earlier days in the missionary fields of
Montana, Idaho and Utah.
M'FADDEN BUYS PAINTINGS
Philadelphia Cotton MiikihHc In Moitt
Important Art TriiiiNnetlon
of Yfiir.
I fly Amnrlntril Pr?-?s.l
LONDON, October 23.? it is an
nounced that John II. McFadden, the
Philadelphia cotton magnate, has pur
chased seven paintings by Constable,
Romney, Raeburn. Morland, Crome and
Wilson. All seven are regarded as pic
tures of the first rank, and lite sale Is
considered the most important art
transaction of the year.
John Howard McFadden is president
of tho Philadelphia Art Club, and Is
widely known for his contributions to
medical research work. In 1013 he
endowed a laboratory in Liverpool for
tho investigation of cancer, lie is a
trustee or the Jefferson Medical Col
logo In Philadelphia and a director of
special research at. tho Royal Southern
Hospital, Liverpool.
PETERSBURGOUI |
FOR LAND BANK!
Cockade City's Claims for Recog
nition Strongly Presented
to Federal Board.
RICHMOND FAVORS RALEIGH
Bankers of This City Return
Support Given in Reserve
Bank Fight.
Reasons why one of the twelve land
banks authorized under the national
rural credits legislation should be lo
cated in V'rglnla were piven by tho
score yesterday at the hearing con
ducted by the Federal Farm Loan
Hoard in the courtroom- of the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals.
Prominent men from all sections of
the State appeared before the board
and outlined the financial needs of the \
Virginia farmer, white and colored. ,
The unexpected strength of Petersburg ;
as a claimant for one of the banks I
was the surprise of the day.
Although Richmond is supporting
Raleigh as th*> location of the bank
for this district, the rest of Virginia
Is not. Petersburg and Norfolk are
waging a strenuous battle for the
honor, and from all sections they are
being hacked up l>v influential busi
ness men and agriculturalists. The
Cockade City, however, had the best
! of the argument yesterday. Us claims
I being well presented and strongly sup
ported by facts and figures.'
Three of the live members of the
board, accompanied by its clerical stuff,'
arrived here early yesterday. Secre
tary of the Treasury William C?. Mc- j
Adoo and Herbert Quick were unable
to be present. George W. Norris.
farm loan commissioner, presided over
the meeting. Charles 13. Lobdell and
Captain \V. S. A. .Smith were the other
members of the board present. Sittinu
with them was F. von Engelken. di
rector of the United States Miu . who
will remain with the party until it
reaches Jacksonville.' \V. \V. Flanna
gan, secretary of joint committee on
rural credits, and Claud de Raun. pri
vate secretary, accompanied the board.
WII.I. HOLD SIMILAR
II10ARI\f> IX IIALKICill !
The hearing opened promptly at 10 ]
o'clock, and two sessions were held.
Following the noon recess at 1 o'clock j
the members of the visiting party were
the guests of the agricultural commit- ,
tee of the Chamber of Commerce at a |
luncheon in the Business Men's Club. I
Last' night they were the guests of
John Skelion Williams. Comptroller of
the Currency, at dinner at his home, j
"Paxton," on the Cary Street Road. ,
The party left at midnight for Raleigh,
where it will conduct a similar hearing
to-day.
The courtroom was filled when j
Chairman Norris called the meeting to i
order. After briefly explaining the de- j
tails of the Federal farm loan act, he \
announced that he was ready to hear |
anything that would aid thfe board in |
arriving at its decision. The object of
the hearing, -he said, was to ascertain
the farm loan needs of the country, in
order that the hounderies of the twelve
districts, as well as the location of the
land banks for each, could be deter
mined. extended a general invita- j
tlon for those present to express the t
sentiments and wishes of the people
of Virginia.
On behalf of Governor Ilenry Carter
Stuart, who is out of the city, Chris
topher B. Garnett, executive assistant
to the State Tax Board, welcomed the
board to Richmond and Virginia, and
then boldly launched forth a claim for
pne of the banks for the Old I>otninlon. j
He cited the tremendous agricultural >
activity of Virginia and of its enor- j
moils undeveloped resources in support j
of his contention.
Hot on the trail of Mr. Garnett's at
tack came the claim of Petersburg for
recognition. Former Governor Wil
liam Hodges Mann led the Cockade
City delegation", and he took charge of ;
the fight waged by that city. Speaker !
after speaker, armed with facts, scored !
points for Petersburg. In spite of the j
Norfolk claim, presented immediately i
after the noon recess, Petersburg
never (lagged, and its argument was
strengthened by the testimony of prac
tically every person who spoke.
FARM I>i:MO\STHATIO\ A(.H\TS
(iivu VAI.I'AHI.13 INI'MHOIATIOX
Farm demonstration agents proved
to be the most productive witnesses
called before the board. Chairman
Norris was greatly pleased with the
testimony given by these men, whose
daily travels bring tin ni closely in
touch with those who should l>e bene
fited most by the farm-loan act. Kach
of the members took turns in ques
tioning the agents, and much valuable
information was secured.
Alfred Rolfe. who labors in Amelia
and Nottoway, told the board that the
farmers in the former county had al
ready started the organi/.atioti of ai
farm-loan association, lie outlined the j
plans of those men. which seemed to |
meet the Idea of the board exactly, j
Mr. Rolfe stated that the farmers of i
Virginia were eager to help each other. !
and that there is no question but that j
they will heartily co-operate to take |
advantage of the farm loans. He was j
backed up in bis assertions by several |
other agents and by T. < >. Sandy, in i
charge of the State demonstration
work, and Miss 1311a Agnew, in charge
of the demonstration work among the
wives and daughters of the farmers.
.lust what the attitude of the white
farmers toward their colored neighbors
would l>e in the event that farm-loan
associations were formed, was ii> ques- j
Hon that seemed to worry the board. J
Industrial and Normal School, Peters- I
burg, the only colored speaker of the
day, ably answered this question by
stating that Virginia was the best place
In the South for such a bank. No
where in the South, be said, was there
such a splendid feeling between the
races. There Is no State where the
white and colored people work so well
together, or where the colored people
"(Coiitimied on Second Page.)
"Squatter" Killed
After Hot Battle
Shoots Sheriff Dead and Wounds
Four Other Officers Before
Being Slain.
[ By Associated Press. 1
WillT12STONIS. X. V.. October 23.?
Paul Stler, sheriff of Queen's County,
was shot and killed, and four police
men and a deputy sheriff were wounded
hue to-day by Frank Tuff, a squatter,
near here, before Taff eventually was
killed by a police sergeant, after a
siege of un hour and a half, in which
policemen, deputy sheriffs and blue
jackets from the United States tor
pedo-boat Ilenly tried to capture Tnff.
When Sheriff Stier, accompanied by
;i deputy and a policeman, went to
Taff's shanty, located In a strip of
woods, to arrest him on an order for
contempt of court, he picked up a shot
Run ami fired at them. The sheriff
dropped to tii>* floor, mortally wounded,
and Taff climbed to the roof, armed
with a rille and a liberal supply of am
munition. t
Police re-enforcements soon sur
rounded the shanty, and Taff. smoking
a pipe, tired several shots, which were
returned by the police and deputy
sheriffs. After five men had been
wounded by the squatter. Police Ser
geant Fitzgerald obtained an automatic
rille from (he torpedo-boat and, ap
proaching the hut, ordered Taff *o sur
render.
Taff fired at Fitzgerald, and when
til'- latter, a former United States sol
dier. returned l'ie fire. Tti? fell dead.
The police said to-night that Taff
probably had been mentally unbal
anced, due to his failure to perfect the
invention of a "fin" propeller for
motor-boats.
A judgment of ?r,nn obtained against
him was followed by a court order to
show cause in supplementary proceed
itiu.-*. lie was -fined *230 for falling
to appear, and his nonappearance in
<-ourt attain to pay the fine led to issu
ance of a writ, which caused the
tragedies to-day.
M'ADOO IN MANSFIELD
Declares Hither Hughes or Colonel
Woulil Ilave Tnkon foiirni1 Which
Would Ilave Drought on War.
I By Associated Pro.*--*.)
MANSFIEL.D, OHIO, October 23.?
William G. MeAdoo, Secretary of the
Treasury. In a speech delivered before
a large audience here to-night, de
clared that both Mr. Hughes and Col
onel Roosevelt, under the pressure of
insistent questioning, have admitted
that hail either been President at the
time the Um-itania was sunk, each
would have taken a course which .would
have brought on war between the
United States and Germany.
"Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Hughes are
in complete accord." said Secretary Mc
Adoo. "Kach would have brought on
war with Germany Immediately aftei
the sinking of the Lusilania. They
differ, if they differ at all, only in
method. Mr. Roosevelt would have be
gun by an act of aggression?seizing
the ships of German citizens lying in
our harbors?and Mr. Hughes would
have begun by immediately breaking
off diplomatic relations.
"Neither Mr. Roosevelt nor Mr. Hughes
would have attempted first to adjust
Die dlUtculty peacefully and honorably
through the channels of diplomacy as
President Wilson did."
CALLS ON BAKER TO RESIGN
Wn.sliliurton Patriotic OrKiiiilinfloii Re
sent* Comparison of Mexican Revo
lutionists to Continental A \v.
I Ily Associated Press. 1
WASHINGTON'. October 23.?The
Region of Loyal Women, a local pa
triotic organization, held a special
meeting to-night and indorsed the ac
tion of its president in signing a reso
lution calling upon Secretary of War
Maker to resign because of Ids alleged
comparison of Mexican revolutionists
to Washington's Continental Army, In
a recent speech.i Ofilcers of several
women societies, including some of
those of the Daughters of the Amer
ican Revolution, signed the resolution
when it was circulated here yesterday.
To-day. Mrs.' William Cumming Storey,
president-general of the I?. A. R., au
thorized the statement that the society
had taken no action in regard to the
remarks attributed to Mr. Raker, and
that she had never heard of the reso
lution until she read it in a news
paper.
TO CREATE NEW CARDINALS
Pope Will livid Secret Consistory on
December -I an^l Public Consis
tory on December 7.
I Hy Associated Press.)
ROM 1*1. October 23 (via Paris).?
Pope Menedict has deckled to hold si j
secret consistory on December 4 and a
public consistory on December 7. at
which in* will create new. cardinals.
At. tin* consistory Pope Benedict will |
deliver an allocution in which be will I
discuss the Kuropean situation, and j
pray for a cessation of the war.
ARMORED CRUISERS RENAMED'
The Washington. West Virginia and !
Colorado llccomc (lie Seattle,
Huntington nntl Pnelilo.
WASHINGTON, October 23.?Acting
Secretary of (lie Navy Roosevelt an
nounced to-day the armored cruisers*
Washington, West Virginia and Colo
rado had, been renamed Seattle, Hunt
ingtou ifnd Pueblo, respectively. The
State names will be given to new bat
tleships.
"BLUES" AT BROWNSVILLE |
Organl/.nlloii W III i-'iirm Part of Xew
Provisional Cavalry
Iteglmrnl.
P.RmWNSVII.1.10. T ION AS, October 23.
The First Squadron of Virginia .Cav
alry. known ns the "Richmond Mines,"
arrived here to-day. It will form a
part of (be now provisional cavalry
regiment, it was announced.
CONSTANZA FALLS
BEFOREATTACKSOF
VON S/IACKENSEN
Roumanians Chief Seaport t
and Fortress Taken by
Teutonic Allies.
INVADERS ALSO NEARING
TOWN OF TCH^RNAVODA
i
Russians and Roumanians in Re
treat Along Whole Line, but
Offer Stubborn Resistance.
i
BRITISH MAKK 1,000-YARD GAIN
Carry Their Front ? Step Nearer
Rapaume-l'crnnne Road, in
Somme Region.
lllV A^forlmerl PrpH!?.|
LONTDON, October 23.?DobrudK_re
glon of Itoumanlu apparently is being
overrun by the forces of the Teutonic
allies.
Constanzu, Roumanians cbief seaport
| and fortress on the Black Sea. already
has fallen Into the hands of the troops
of the right wlnp of Field Marshal von
Mackensen's 'army, while the left wing
Is nearing; the town of Tchernavoda.
whore the Danube Is spanned by the
bridge of the railroad running from
Constanza to Hukharest. Near the con
tor of their front, which extends across
DobrudJa from the sea to the Danube,
the Invaders have cut the railroad near
Murfatlar and pushed tholr troops "far
beyond the railway lino, according to
Berlin.
Hefore the rapid advance of the Ger
mans, Bulgarians and Turks?rapid
despite heavy rains and soggy ground
the Russians and Roumanians nre
in retreat along the entire front but
according to Petrograd, are offerinc
stubborn resistance.
Aside from the operations In Dob
rudja. another British smash at the
Herman line in the Somme region of
r?n!!ce' wh,c', netted them more than
1.000 yards of trenches cast of Gueude
court and Les Boeufs and carried their
front a step nenrer the Bapaume-Pe
ronne Road, Is the most notable Inci
dent of the fighting on any front
A gain, described by Paris as "appreci
able." also is recorded for the French
northeast of Morval, which lies just fo
'lie south of the region where tho
British and Germans were In contact.
ATTACKS OF U.VTIiXTE
\ S A III .V AIIILV HKPULSI2D
liorlin, in touching: upon the fighting
against the British and French on Sun
day in Le Snrs and Rancourt region
says the attacks of the entente allies
were sanguinarily repulsed. It Is ad
mitted in the German oflicial communi
cation that the Germans withdrew Sun
day night from the north of Chaulnes,
south of the Somme. to a prepared po
sition lying east of the northern part
of the Chaulne<< wood.
The Russians Having been cleared
from the Narayuvka River region of
t?alicla, tho Austro-Gertnan forces have*
hurled a violent attack against other
forces of Emperor Nicholas north of
Brody, near the Volhynla-Gallcla bor
der. The attack was repulsed, accord
ing to Petrograd.
At the bend of Cerna River, in Serbia.
Berlin says the Germans and Bul
garians. lighting side by have
halted the offensive of the Serbs, who
now are on tho, defensive. Bad weather
? still hampering full operations on
the Macedonian front.
Tho Italians have again begun a live
ly bombardment of Austrian positions
on tho Carso Plateau, northwest of
rrleste, probably presaging another at
tempt soon to press forward toward
Austria's chief seaport on the Adriatic.
Ten steamers and two sailing vessels
nil of them neutrals, are reportod to
have been sunk, but whether by sub
marines or mines is not stated. Five
of the steamers were Norwegian, two
Greek, two Danish and one Dutch. They
aggregated 12,474 tons gross. The sail
ing craft wee a Danish schooner and
? Swedish bark. The British steamer
Cabot u. of 4,309 tons, is believed to
nave been sunk.
lilt 1TISII WIX I.OOO VAUDS
OF (;Kit MAX TflKXCIIKS
f By Asxfteluted Proas.]
t n??XD?f' October 23?More than
1.000 yards ot German trenches In tho
region of Gueudccourt and I.es Boeufs
were taken by the British iu fighting
north of the Somme River, in France,
this afternoon, according to the official
communication Issued to-night.
In the region of Grandecourt the
British artillery stopped a German plan
il" attack. The communication
Hays:
"This afternoon, in tho course of
operations by the right wing of our
front south of the Ancre, we advanced
our lino oast of Gueudccourt and Les
l.oeufs and captured over 1,000 yards
of enemy trenches.
"During the day our front In tho
neighborhood of Lo Snrs was heavfly
shelled. South of Grandecourt this
afternoon the enemy massed for an
attack, but was stopped by our artil
lery. Sixty-six further prisoners aro
reported as a result of the fighting at
the Schwaben redoubt and Le Sars. in
addition to tho total given yesterday.
"Last night two German raids were
attempted against our trenches In tho
neighborhood of tiominecourt. One
was stopped by our tiro, and the enemy
suffered heavy casualties. Tho second
penetrated our - outpost lines, but was
promptly driven back by our counter
attack.
"Yesterday our aoroplancs bombed
two railway stations behind the enemy
lines, hitting a train in motion nml
doing much damago to buildings and
rolling stock.
"Seven enemy machines were brought
down and many others wero forced to
