4
I ' , _ _
WEATHER. ^If ? 4 "if V-y ?
Fair, iomewh&t warmer tonight. To- ,^r H ^ * U U MM. A. - x - fraBy! ^OITI rTCSI fO n OffW
morrow partlr cloudy; gentle to mod- M B>^E fllM >B A/A/A A/ M \( I -^???^?
erate winds, mostly i |Jk V Bm 9 BT W1 BB B UwT I ' ^ fl/lNn IB VI ' ft. It ,.,.-??
Temperature for twenty-four hours B B B B^F B^H ' B B B^r B B B B B B B B \ B B i? A >u It 14/11/1 ulC 17vau
ending 2 p.m.; Highest, 2 p.m. i | B B B B B B B B B B B ????? ?
today; lowest, a.m. today. J B W BBB BBB BBBB w / -w B B * B
FuH on page
I y m I y i^l I / lews net Ctrealatlea. Meats of Septraiber. '
CL09D16 HEW YORK STOCKS PAGE IE Xw"^ ^ W' U1E Bally Average. TESSOi Saaday. IMU
No. 29,481. WASHINGTON, D. C., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1916?TWENTY PAGES. ONE CENT.
BONES ARE FOUND
IN PILE OF ASHES
Believed Those of Frank Poschl,
Missing Farmer, of
Near Forestville, Md.
MURDER IS SUSPECTED
BfcUl Dlipitch to The Stir.
UPPER MARLBORO. Md.. October 24.
?While passing through a piece of
Woods on the farm of Dr. W. W. Stewart.
wo miles from Forestville, Sunday
ternoon, J. C. Staubis, a resident i
of that locality, found the charred
bones of a human bein^. The finding:
f a hat and knife nearby made It reasonably
certain that the bones were
those of Frank Poschl, fifty years old,
who disappeared from his home near
Forestville the afternoon of Aug;ust 24.
The metal ends of two No. 12 shells
~vuilia Mil U1Q JfllC ui asaco
the possibility that Poschl was slain
With a shotgun and his body burned
on a brush pile to hide evidences of
the crime.
Sheriff Gates went to the scene as
soon as he learned of the discovery
made by Mr. Staubis, and Justice of
the Peace W. E. Cox yesterday afternoon
conducted an inquest at Forestville.
The jurors thought the testimony
suggested that Poschl had been
slain with a shotgun, but the verdict
left t|fe cause of death open. They did
decid?~ that the bones were those of
the missing farmer.
Further Investigation Made.
Sheriff Gates this morning reported
the facts on the case to State's Attorney
S. Marvin Peach and the affair
is being further investigated. While
the finding of the metal ends of two
shells among the ashes suggested the
probability that Poschl had been shot
and killed where the bones were found,
it is balieved possible that he was slain
at sorot other place and his body taken
there and burned.
How the hat and knife, of the dead
man escaped being burned beyond recognition
is a matter that the sheriff
is trying to solve. Had Poschl been
murdered on the spot and his body
burned, it is stated, it is probable that
his slayers would have consigned his
hat to the Are, and this one neglect, it
Is pointed out, not only served to make
Identification certain, but it may prove
of interest in the investigation that is
being conducted by Sheriff Gates, his
deputies and the state's attorney.
Subject to Despondency.
It was testified at the inquest that .
Poschl was subject to fits of desnon
dcncy.
Poachl owned a farm near Foreetviile,
where he resided with his sister,
Mrs. Josephine Sommers; William Somk
mers, hsr husband, and their children.
August 20, the last day be was seen
aflve by his sister and brother-in-law,
he said he was going to Centerrllle to
visit another sister, Mrs. Frank Glbbes,
and-It was wet until two weeks later ,
that the Sommers learned he had not
reached there. '
It was said he had taken no large i
sum of money with him; not enough to ,
lake him any distance and pay his traveling
expenses for so long a period, and
his disappearance aroused concern .
among his relatives and fricnda Search
made for him failed to result in finding !
any trace of him.
The rim of the hat was charred and .
the knife had been so affected by the
lire as to change its appearance. Mr. .
Sommers, however, was positive of the j
identification of the knife. It was one
of two knives that he bought some time
ago, he said, and the disfigured one is ]
ihe one he gave to his brother-in-law.
Sheriff Gates says the place where ,
lite body was burned is not in the direction
of Centervtlls. where Poschl !
-aid he was going, but in an entirely .
different direction.
Body Possibly Dismembered.
The skull, vertebras and the leg
hones were found in the funeral pyre. ,
BAt is thought possible that the body
^Bvas dismembered and that only parts
Hof it wars consigned to the brush fire,
and it is the intention of Sheriff Gates !
V to prosecute a thorough search of the '
surrounding country in an effort to 1
learn if any missing portions of the <
uody were secreted in the woods or :
buried.
K is highly probable that the brush <
' used in the fire was taken there from
nearby woods. It waa stated at the Inquest
that there was no brush near
that particular place.
Dr. Stewart, on whose farm the bones
were found, said that about the time
of the disappearance of Poschl he wss
awakened In the middle of the night
by smoke. However, he said he did not
get up. because be though there was
little danger of it getting far because
everything was green.
Appeared to Be Xorbid.
Poschl had worked for him at odd
times, according to Dr. Stewart, and
at times appeared morbid. He told his
friends that he had committed an unpardonable
sin and must stone for it
in same way. Dr. Stewart said. He
had bean heard to remark that if It
were not too brutal he would build a
big fire and jump into It. This sin,
according to Dr. Stewart, was apparently
on bis mind at all times, for
If was the one subject about which he
was always talking.
Dr. Stewart said that Poschl had
been In a sanatorium for a time after
the death of * his wife, about three
years ago, and while returning, in
charge of Dr. Sansbury of Forestvllle,
p made an attempt to Jump out of the
train window, but was restrained after
some effort.
#The place where the charred remains
were found is in a deep ravine about
a half mile from Dr. Stewart's house.
In a little frequented part of his farm, j
MISSION BOARD TO MEET.
Ideals of Japan Will Be Discussed
by American Commissioners.
TOI.EDO. October 24.?"Shall Christian
or Atheistic Ideals Rule Japan V will
be one of the first questions to bo discussed
by the American Board of Commissioners
for Foreign Missions which
opens its 107th annual convention here
this afternoon. The question will bo
taken up by the Rev. Helton Pedley.
for twenty-seven years a missionary In
Japan, and by the Rev. M. D. Dunning.
S who for fourteen years has taught In
Doshlsha. Kyoto. Japan.
The board Is one of the oldest foreign
missionary organizations of the
United States representing the Congregational
churches.
The meeting will close next Friday
i nmmlng with addresses on conditions
i> under the Russian flag, by Dr. Clarence
Li Use her. who recently passed through
the typhis epidemic st Van. Turkey,
B knd the Rev. Robert Stspleton, who
A treat to Turkey to 1IPT.
D. C. HEADS WARNED
OF MORTAGE
Municipal Building Windows
Closed and Ventilating System
Relied Upon for Air.
SUPPLY FOR DEPARTMENTS
Notice of a serious shortage of coal
was served today on all heads of de- 1
partments in the District building, who 1
are urged to keep windows closed and i
depend on the building's ventilating \
I system for fresh air. The warning:, <
which was issued by J. M. Ward, su- <
perintendent of the building, states i
that barely enough coal is being received
to meet the present mild- *
weather demands. f
It is stated that the air which is J
forced into the rooms in the Municipal 1
building through the ventilating sys- ]
I tern is fresh air, passed through water *
[screens to remove dust, and that the <
quantity is never intentionally less than ?
the maximum required in public school
practice. 1
Although the superintendents of the a
buildings housing a number of the
large government departments- and the
engineers in charge of the heating t
plants which supply one or more thereof
all agree that there is more or less
shortage of coal, conditions in none of r
them, as far as can be learned, have r
compelled similar warnings.
The shortage apparently varies with c
the facilities of the dealers, several of "
whom supply the various departments ,
under contract made with the general
supply committee, which is under the J
jurisdiction of the Secretary of the 0
Treasury. *
c
Nq Shortage at CapitoL *
E. P. Gliem, chief electrical engineer t
in charge of the big plant which heats J
the Capitol, Congressional Library and s
the House and Senate office buildings, s
today stated that his plant was getting J
its coal regularly, although advised to t
store all it can at present. It now has
on hand some 1,200 tons.
The office of the superintendent of
the Treasury Department building admits
some trouble in procuring coal, ?
but has had to issue no warnings to be t
economical. The superintendent of the c
State, War and Navy building's statement
was almost identical.
W. de C. Ravanel, administrative of- h
fleer of the New National Museum, s;
MVI pr?? 1 la vorv hn,t K,*+ ?Ko* ?-??
warnings hare as yet been considered
necessary. "
J. S. Hill, chief engineer of the plant tl
which heats the land office, patent of- ?
floe, pension office, reclamation service,
bureau of mines. Court of Appeals and c'
olty hall buildings, and who Is super- tl
Intendent of the land office building, u
today stated that his plant has a large di
bunker capacity and has all the coal ?<
needed for the present.
Wo TmoU* tat Deliveries. "
A shortage to die coal supply, but 2
me not soffident^o n ecesst tat s wan- D
tags te be sparing with the fresh air n.
so far, la reported from the office of p'
the superintendent of the bureau of U
engraving and printing. ss
The superintendent of the various u
buildings which bouse the Department tl
of Agriculture reported that he had pi
not been notified of any particular ei
trouble In coal deliveries and that no tl
warnings had been Issued. ei
Col. W. W. Harts, superintendent of d
public buildings and graunds, stated o
that there were no Indications that d<
my shortage would be so bad that the d;
government could not get Its usual sl
coal supply. He said his office had tl
been purchasing a lot of coal both h
for the State. War and Navy buildings ti
and for the White House. Both etruc- ..
tures are lighted, although not heated, .1
from the same plant, and this lighting,
he said, requires a good deal of coal. ..
The State, War and Navy building Is ?
heated from the exhaust from the fuel J*
used In the lighting. Col. Harts stated Z.
that he had no indications of any very
serious future trouble in procuring the f
needed fuel. r\
That the coal situation Is serious as ,.
regards price, even If It be not so re- 11
garding possible shortage. Is evidenced u
by a statement made today by William w
B. Orme. secretary of the Washington P
Sas Light Company. He said that for b
coal which two years ago cost the com- "
pany $2.75 a ton, the lowest possible P'
figure now Is $5.50 a ton on board the _
coal barges at West station, whence >
the company has to transport It to its
furnaces.
HELD FOR HOUSEBREAKING
BECAUSE OF FINGER PRINT
y<
t>
Ernest Palback Committed Solely on re
Strength of Hark Left on a
Piece of Olass. ai
U1
ai
The finger print of the right index le
finger of Ernest Palback was held by
Judge Mullowny in the Police Court p<
today to be sufficient evidence to hold M
him for the action of the grand jury on ei
a charge of housebreaking. U
The reason the finger print was held S1
by the court as evidence was because ic
it was testified by finger-print experts bi
that it corresponded with a finger print o]
found on a piece of glass from a win- ft
dov of the store of Harry Ley which ds
was broken into Saturday night- r<
Mr. Ley told the court his place has
been robbed on a number of occasions
and that when he discovered the rob- te
bery Sunday ne nouuea me ponce. Lie- tr
tectlve Patrick O'Brien made an in- U
vest! gat Ion and discovered a finger- Q
print on a piece of glass broken from C2
the window. The defendant was later it
arrested on suspicion and after his
finger prints had been taken. Fred San- n<
berg, finger-print expert and photog- ir
rapher of the police depaftment. made **
a comparison, which he testified. {J]
showed the two prints to be the same, m
James H. Taylor, a finger-print ex- b<
pert of the Navy Department, testified in
also that the finger prints were the
same. The court was told that no two ai
persons have ever been found to have cl
the same finger prints. The defendant Si
was held in $600 bonds for the action
of the grpnd Jury.
Killed on Errand of Mercy. qi
POUGHKEEPSIE. N. Y., October 24. ??
?Victor Emmanuel Chapman, eon of di
John Jay Chapman, killed In action at di
Verdun, left an estate of (500,000. tt
Young Chapman wag In the French flyIng
corpe. The Germane brought p]
down hie machine while he was carry- 1,
Ing a basket of frnlt to a wounded ai
comrade. John Jay Chapman, Conrad d!
Chapman, a brother, and Chandler
Chapman, a half-brother. Inherit the M
estate. d<
ARMY LAW HEAD
FOR HALFHOLIDAY
Acting Judge Advocate General
Bethel Reports Favorably
to Secretary.
HOLDS IT IS LEGAL NOW
The legal department of the army,
through an opinion prepared by Col.
W. A. Bethel, acting judge advocate
general of the army, has reported to
the Secretary of War in favor of the
istablishment of Saturday half holilays
"In the departments of the United
States located at Washington, D. C."
"In an opinion of this office dated
fuly 11, 1903," says the acting judge
idvocate general, "after reviewing the
egislation relative to legal holidays
ind the effect of the act of June 30,
902, providing that Saturday afterloon
shall be a holiday in the District
>f Columbia 'for all purpdses,' it was
stated, with reference to the act, supra,
to amend section 1380 (Civil Code,
>. C.) by striking out in the eighteenth
md nineteenth lines thereof the words,
'within the meaning of this section"
ind insert in lieu thereof the words,
'for all purposes." *
"As a result of the foregoing amendnent
section 1389 of the civil code is
10 longer restricted in its operation to
legotiable instruments, and as a conlequence
every Saturday, from 12
'clock noon, becomes a legal holiday
n the District of Columbia for all pur. oses
to the same extent that Sunlays,
Christmas, Fourth of July, Labor
md Decoration days are legal holilays.
It is. therefore, the opinion of
his office that if the clerks and em loyes
of the War Department, other
han per diem employes, are required
U V?UI a A L LCI J. u ?J <-iuv.il "UUII uavui lays,
such labor as is required of them
hould be obtained in pursuance of
pecial orders extending the hours of
abor from noon Saturdays to such
iour as may be deemed necessary in
he interests of the public service."
Purpose of the Act.
Col. Bethel continues: "In the opinion
f the Attorney General, supra, relative
o the said amendment of the District
ode, it is stated that:
"This action of Congress appears to
ave been deliberately taken with the
pecial intent of making the days specled
holidays within the District of Cojmbia
for all purposes, and to correct
tie former legislation under which
robably no public holiday remained exept
for matters pertaining to negoable
instruments. That 8atrday
after 1Z o'clock noon is a hollay
for all purposes within the District
f Columbia and is therefore one of the
lays declared public holidays by law'
ithin the meaning of the statutes regtatliig
the number of hours of labor
hlch It Is'your duty to require of all
arks and other employes of the War
apartment. Tou are. consequently,
at obliged to require labor by such
arttee after the hour of noon on Satrdays."
"It will appear from what has been
aid," said Col. Bethel, "that each Satrday
afternoon is a legal holiday In
le District of Columbia for all puroses,
and that the practice of the sev*al
executive departments of working
leir employes to 1 o'clock during the
immer months and to 4:30 o'clock
uring the remainder of the year rests
n the discretion of the heads of the
epartments to require work on holiays
where the needs of the public
srvice require the same. It is clear
sat under the law as it stands the
eads of departments may legally close
teir respective departments at 12
clock noon on each Saturday
iroughout the year.
OAs Congress has made Saturday aft
rnoon a legal holiday for all puroses
in the District of Columbia,
here executive departments are lotted,
it may be assumed that Conress,
in the light of prior legislation
sspectlng the hours of labor of the
cecutive departments, contemplated
le closing of the departments on Satrday
afternoon. For this reason, as
ell as for the reason that I think the
ublic service would not be impaired
y such action, I recommend action in
ne with that suggested by Mr. Gomsrs."
laturday Is Legally
Half Holiday the Year
Round, Says McReynolds
Saturday is legally a half holiday the
sar round in Washington now, and
tose heads of departments who have
jported to their respective secretaries
id through them to the President residing
the desirability of granting the
fternoon off on all the flfty-two Satrdays
of the year can Just go ahead
id let the federal employes have this
ave.
This opinion is based on the highest
jssible legal opinion?that of James C.
cReynolds, then acting attorney gen al,
since Attorney General of the
nited States and now on the United
Lates Supreme Court bench. This opin>n
is understood to have been the
isis for Attorney General Gregory's
Dinlon to the President that he has
ill authority in law to declare a holiiy
every Saturday afternoon the year
>und.
Syllabus of His Opinion.
In th* syllabu, of an opinion submit
id August 15, 1903, by Mr. McReynolds,
ten acting attorney general of the
nited States, who became Attorney
eneral on the organization of the
Lbinet of the present administration,
is stated that:
" 'Every Saturday after 12 o'clock
Don' is a holiday for all purposes withi
the District of Columbia, and is,
terefore, one of the 'days declared
ublic holidays by law,' within the
leaning of the statutes regulating the
umber of hours of labor, which must
i required of all clerks and employes
t the executive departments.
"Consequently, heads of departments
re not obliged to require labor of such
erks, etc., after the hour of noon on
iturd&ys."
Honrs Labor Bequired.
"Heads of departments must reuire
at least seven hours' labor of all
ielr clerks and other employes every
iy in the year except Sundays and
stys declared to be holidays," continues
le syllabus, "by section 13S9 of the
>de of the District of Columbia, and
uring authorized leave; and, if the
ublic service requires It, the hours of
ibor may be extended by special order
nd may include holidays as well as orinary
days."
The opinion Itself Is extensive and a
>orough review of the law and precedent
and practice.
1
T?T T T\T/-? ttT?
x i ur.
RUMANIAN ARMY HAS FAILED
TO PROFIT BY WARS LESSONS
Wby Superior Forces Are Unable to Hold in
Cbeck Seasoned Troops of tbe
Central Powers.
By the AnertiM fit?. taken out of range for fear of being
AT THE HEAD OF PREDEAL PASS, out off. The Rumanian artillery thereRumanian
frontier, with Gen. von Fal- fore made an unusually poor showing,
kenhayn's army, October 18, by courl- The Rumanian Infantry did relatively
er to Berlin (via London. October 24)._ %??*? ^""SS'nSrSS
In yesterday's battle around Predeal shells.
pass the Associated Press correspond- There was nowhere observable a
... - r, A TLT tendency to undprnu tV? A Pumanlann
ent visitea various uerman ?.?? but officers of Gen. von Falkenhayn's
rarlan battery positions, where the army spoke frankly of their many
_ ..n^uturbed by Rumanian Are. handicaps. They said the Rumanian
men. undlsturDe y general staff had overlooked some of
kept up a fearful bombardment - the most important lessons of the presoDDOslna
positions In the campaign for ent war; as, for instance, the absence
- RttmnniR before the Rumanian positions of
the invasion o , ?? ai. barbed wire, which is replaced by shalThe
men went at their work in Iow pltB p0|nted stakes,
most a holiday spirit, for it Is with a j Thus far the Rumanians have been
# that the Germans worsted each time by flank movements
sense of deep reliei tnat tn and 8uperlor opposln|? artillery, the
and Hungarians here, officers a significance of which may be best unalike
have left behind them the trench derstood when it is considered that for
regions and thrown a time the Rumanians constantly had
warfare or otner rc?lw maBM,Vera numerical superiority, in one instance
themselves into open field m 30 to j nearjy ajj armies in the
against the Rumanians. present war have done, the Rumanian
Infantry shoots badly, though an imGo
Singing to Attack. provement already is discernible.
., .. The losses of Gen. von Falkenhayn's
It was scarcely believable that arter army are Baid to have been light. An
two years of strenuous life at the front officer of the general staff told the corinfontrvmen
should rush to the assault respondent that in the battle of Kroninfantrymen
snouiu m stadt the losses in dead were less than
with songs, yet it is a ract, to the nurnber cf guns captured from the
the universal feeling here of dealing Rumanians, which was sixty-seven.
?,! >, fne who has yet to learn every But this was an exceptional case, and
with a io rrnfrihntps occasionally the Rumanian infantry
trick of mod?riJ. W/^frrnan and Hun- shows up comparatively well,
much. Though the German and Hungarian
Infantrymen were about to rush
fnto the Are of Rumanian rifles and WOMAN AND SON MISSING.
machine guns they viewed the situation
nnmniappntlv saving the worst of open
fl^dP work was preferable to trench p0lice to Seek Bodies Under Thirty
drudgery. Officers explained that the
change virtually would make the troops Tons Of Hfty.
fresh forces, owing SANTA MONICA. Cal.. October 24.?
ira 'Kirt sultS? for maneuvering be- Thirty tons of hay will be moved by the
cause of their training along that line, police today in a search for the torsos
The Predeal battle is one of the few an(j heads of Mrs. Irene Barrett and
Xn'bfiye corr^sXdenWtrwho werne abi. her son, Raymond Wright. They are
to approach within less than 3,000 supposed to have been murdered last
yards of the skirmishing line. At 11 Wednesday on the Barrett farm, near
a.m. German artillery opened a desultory
Are on the Rumanian trenches on ne - , A
Suzalul mountain, 5,000 feet high. Police on guard at the ranch fruswhich
an hour later reached its max I- trated an attempt of an unldentiAed
SSS?yfVga,^etfihreetTe^rsodireeT00 -an late tast night to set Are to the
feet below the summit. barn in which the mother and son are
_ , __ . a ?alleged to have been slain.
Rumanians Put to Flight. 0na Qt fBt> flred ^ ^ ^
For a quarter of an hour the Ru- as he was about to apply a torch to
manlans stuck to their trenches. Word the hay. The man escapetl in a waiting
coming from the artillery spotters that automobile,
th. Rumanians thus far seeming had
not been impressed, the artillery in- waa strengthened that Benton Barrett,
creased its fire. The Rumanian infan- who, according to the authorities, contrv
still held on for a time, but finally fessed to slaying his wife and stepson,
. i if* rtf' had an accomplice,
broke across the slope like swarms of y
ants as the German and Hungarian in- _
fan try came in view. German artillery TEST OF ELECTION LAW. 1
followed up the fleeing Rumanians
with shrapnel, and the manner in Court to Define Rights of Militiawhich
th- ere pursued the Rumanians meil Uot BegistCTed.
acm "**1 idge leading ^rom Suzalul N'EW' RKt ?"?')e^ 24"~:Before the <
mountain the Rumanians finally reach- end of the week it is expected that i
ed their second position. A lull ensued, the Supreme Court will decide whether i
A few minutes before 2 p.m. it was de- member Qf the state militia who has
cided to resume operations. German I
artillery, ably supported by some Hun- returned from the Mexican border too (
garlan batteries, repeated "the work of fote to register will be able to vote l
the morning, and the infantry then the comintj general election. Argu- ,
short(tlm?rthe objective wuPga?ned? ments will be heard tomorrow In a teat ,
The ground being extremely difficult, case brought by the law committee of .
the Rumanians endeavored to forward Tammany Hall on behalf of two Nainfantry
reinforcements through the tional Guardsmen, one a republican, <
town of Predeal, with the result that tfce other a democrat. If the court de- c
heavy German and Hungarian guns in- cides that the applicants cannot vote at
side of fifteen minutes blew up half of their legal residences the only measure
vlf? ??.^..hui iviwo oy wiiiuu tucy cbii caciCISC III*3IT rig;lit 1
obliged to Melt shelter In the forest above 0f suffrage will be to return to the t
the town, passing through German In- border and vote as soldiers. 1
fantry Are at long range. e
The Predeal battle was not remark- . ,. _ c
able for severity of artillery Are or Increase in Operating income. i
other actlon. but great interest oe"' A 400 per cent Increase In the oper- '
Infantry? " atln. Income of the nine principal ex- \
mountain Aghtlng, was able to oope press companies of the United States t
with the difficulties of the terrain. for the Ascal year ended last June
Bnmanlans Poor Gunners. is shown In the interstate com- J
_ merce commission report on their rev- i
J"11*?Jher ,h^n ' enues and expenses. For the twelve (
showed lack of military knowledge, months the companies had a total oper- c
The. efficiency of their troops suffered ating Income of flO.SSO.S50, against $?,- i
because much of the'artillery had been S56.21? the previous jjear. 1
liji 'III
mo MS MP
rn m reuTO i mit
IUOIA ULI110 ft LUMI
Big Bakery Announces Increase
in the Price to
Washington Cqnsumers.
MORE LIKELY TO FOLLOW
The price of bread in Washington
went to 6 cents a loaf today when one
of the biggest bakeries in this section
of the country came to the conclusion
It could no longer sjfand the increased
cost of manufacture without an advance
in the retail price. Although no
confirmation could be obtained from
other bakers, it is expected that the
price generally will be increased. The
price of rolls, which has been 10 cents
a dozen, has been raised to 12 cents.
Bakers interviewed today said that
the retail buyer is not paying anywhere
near the entire cost of the increase
in the manufacturing elements
entering into the price of a loaf of
bread or a pan of rolls.
Inspects Cost Records.
"We have gone through every cost
record we have," said a big baker today,
"and we find that in everything
we have to buy to keep our plant running
the cost has increased. This
includes all articles, from harseshoes
to flour by the carload. In some instances
the cost of manufacturing ne
cessities has increased 200 per cent.
The average increase in the cost of
things we have to buy to produce and
deliver a loaf of bread is 70 per cent.
"When the woman who pays 6 cents
a loaf for bread understands that she
is paying an increase of 20 per cent
while the baker Is paying an increase
of 70 per cent. I do not think there will
be much criticism."
Predicts Seven-Cent Loaves.
A prominent baker today predicted
than six-cent loaves would soon be followed
by seven-cent loaves.
Meantime the grain market price is
soaring, wheat at $2 a bushel having
been recorded on the Minneapolis exchange.
This was a special grade of
fine wheat and only 5,000 bushels sold
at that price. In Chicago the wheat
pit registered an advance of a few
cents and heavy buying was recorded.
ARMOR-PIERCING BULLET
PLEASES ARMY OFFICERS
NEW YORK, October 24.?Army officers
who have observed the tests of the
lew armor-piercing bullet now in
progress at the Sandy Hook proving j
grounds are enthusiastic over the re- \
suits. The bullet is of only .30 caliber,
ind can be fired from the regulation
irmv Snringfleld rifle. At a distance of
ifty yards the projectile ploughed 1
hrough a sheet of steel three-quarters ^
>f an inch thick and then penetrated a <
illhouette target planted behind the
iteel plate. It is believed that one of 1
he new bullets could be fired clean j
hrough from ten to twenty men standng
in a row.
The bullets are tipped with a piece
>f steel incased in lead, which acts as
i lubricant when the bullet strikes
iteel and thus aids penetration. The 1
>rojectilefe which passed through tar- J
rets in recent tests were but little dis- e
orted. <
It is pointed out that the great value
>f the bullets will be against armored
ootor cars and against troops hiding 1
n houses or behind other protections. (
>ne officer said that they would be i
it service against such instruments of :
rar as the now famous "tanks" used 1
>y the British on the Somme. t
VICTORY ON SOMME.
CLAIMOFGERMANS
British and French Suffered
Enormous Losses, According
to Berlin.
NOT CONFIRMED BY ALLIES
By the Associated Press.
BERLIN, October 24, by wireless to
Sayville.?In an attempt to break
through the German lines on the
Somme at any cost the British and
French yesterday used great numbers
of troops in repeated attacks, the war
j office announced today. Their assaults
I hrnkfl Hown with hoivv 1n???a
The defeat of the allies was so severe,
the statement says, that all along
the front the dead are lying in one row
upon another. South of the Somme a
French attack met with similar results.
Battles of Great Violence.
The announcement follows: "October
23 was like the preceding day, being
characterised by battles of greatest
violence. In order to break through
at any price the British and French
continued attacks in which strong
forces were employed.
"In spite of their use of masses of
troops north of the Somme, they suffered
a heavy and sanguinary defeat.
It is reported from the front that rows
of dead are lying one upon another,
especially west of Transloy. The conduct
of our troops was as splendid as
was possible.
"South of the Somme the French prepared
an advance in the AblaincourtChaulnes
sector, but our annihilating
fire made development of the attack i
impossible.
"Army group of the German crown
prince?The enemy attempted to assist
the attacks on the Somme by attacks
near Verdun. Our positions on
the east bank of the Meuse were
strongly shelled by artillery. Hostile
infantry was "held in its trenches by
our strong and efficient artillery fire.
Attempts to attack were thus frustrated."
British Consolidate Gains.
LONDON, October 24, 12:12 p.m.?
"The ground gained by us yesterday In
the neighborhood of Gueudecourt and
Lesboeufs (on the Somme front) has
now been fully secured," the war office
announced louaj. uurmg me nigiu
there was nothing: to report except intermittent
shelling on both sides.
"In answer to the enemy's claim that
the gains of Saturday between Schwaben
redoubt and Le Sars were won
only at the expense of heavy losses on
our part, It may be noted that the
troops engaged, which took over 1,000
prisoners, had only about 1,200 casualties."
Paris Beports Artillery Duel.
PARIS, October 24, noon.:?French
and German artillery forces were busy
last night south of the Somrae, where
an artillery duel raged in the Biaches- j
Ablaincourt region. There was no infantry
action along the French front
I in the Somme area, the war office anI
nounced today.
Three German aeroplanes were
I brought down in the course of twenty
j aerial combats that occurred yesterday
i in the Verdun region during a thick
I mist.
SUBMARINE U-53 SUNK,
ACCORDING TO REPORT
Raider Said to Have Been Sent to
Bottom by Canadian Patrol
Boat.
BOSTON", October 24.?Capt. W. G.
Tudor of the British steamship Hochelaga,
which arrived today from Louisburg,
said that before he left Nova
Scotia persistent rumors were current
that the German U-boat 53 had been
sunk off Sydney, N. S.t by the Canadian
patrol boat Stanley. He said he heard
the rumor several times, but was unable
to verify it.
"Before I left Louisburg I was told
by a shipping man that I need not
worry about the German submarine,"
said Capt. Tudor. "This man said the
U-boat would not bother any more
British vessels, because she had been
sunk by tne Stanley."
Capt. Tudor said no mention was
made of the fate of the submarine's
crew.
HALIFAX, N. 8., October 24.?Efforts
to obtain a statement from admiralty
officials at this port regarding a report
that the German submarine U-53 had
been sunk by the Canadian patrol
steamer Stanley off Sydney, N. S., were
unsuccessful. Officials refused to discuss
the matter.
BIG GAIN IN STORED GOLD.
Shipments From Europe Bring Total
to $2,636,009,564.
NEW YORK, October 24.?Shipments
of gold to the United States since the
beginning of the European war, in conjunction
with the domestic production,
brought the total of gold in the country
from $1,887,270,664 on August 1. ,
1914, to $2,636,009,564 on October 1, i
1916, the gain in the amount in the {
twenty-six-month, period being $74S,- !
738.904, according to a compilation an- 1
nounced here.
The amount of gold imported during
tne war, it is pointed out, is greater
than that for the full decade preceding t
Lne war, ? "? imports ior June, 1916, a
were greater than in any full year <
prior to the war, with the single ex- i
;eption of 1908.
The gold in the United States is now s
louble that of 1909 and 40 per cent
nore than at the beginning of the war, 4
t is said. 1
Two More Mine \ictinu Found.
FAIRMONT, W. Va.. October 24.?Ex>loratlon
of the wrecked workings of
lamison mine. No. 7, where an explosion B
ntombed no less than a dozen miners,
raa continued during the night after the S
galleries bad been cleared of gas. Two o
K>dles were found more than half a mile n
rom the foot of the shaft. It was be- I
leved that the others would be located 0
lefore nightfall. Thirty horses, killed by
he explosion, also have been
.5
DOBM RAILWAY
M GERMAN HANDS;
MOMS FAIL
Troops Under Field Marshal
von Mackensen Following
Up Big Victory.
DANUBE BRIDGE IN DANGER
By the AasoHated Preaa.
T nvnnv ?\r:~
" ^ v-zil f WV. HJUV. 1 VII
tually the entire ConstanzaTchernavoda
railway line in
Dobrudja is now in the hands of
Field Marshal von Mackensjjn's
victorious forces, it appears from
a Russian official statement today
admitting the evacuation of Medjidie
by the Russians and Rumanians.
Medjidie is approximately twen- '
ty miles inland from Constanza,
the Black sea port and terminus
of the railway, the fall of which
to the armies of the central powers
was reported yesterday. Medjidie
furthermore is but little more
than thirteen and one-half miles
from Tchernavoda, where the
Russo-Rumanian forces are apparently
preparing to make a
stand at the bridgehead protecting
the town.
Hallway Bridge in Peril.
The only bridge over the Danube
between Belgrade and the sea. spans
the river at Tchernavoda, carrying the
railway line running to Bucharest.
The Russo-Rumanian line now runs
along the heights north of Constanza
and Medjidie, according to the Petrograd
announcement, the entente forces
having fallen back upon these ridges
after evacuating the towns.
According to reports from Bucharest,
received at Rome and relayed here by
wireless telegraphy today, the forces
of the central powers took little booty
at Constanza, as the evacuation of the
Dobrudja seaport had been decided
upon some time ago.
Rumanians Lose Predeal.
.
- Driving home the attack on the north.
Gen. von Falkenhayn reports as a result
the capture of Predeal, ten miles
south of Kronstadt on the Rumanian
side of the border, and the collapse of
the atrong resistance the Rumanians
have been offering: at the southern end
of Rothenthurm pass on the frontier
south of Hermannstadt.
On the northwestern Rumanian front
the Russo-Rumanian forces apparently
are holding their own. Bucharest
reports them on the offensive in the
Oituz valley, where several hundred
prisoners and ten machine guns were
j captured from Gen. von Falkenhayn's
' troops.
Emperor William, the advices add,
has sent congratulations to King Ferdinand
of Bulgaria on the capture of
Constanza.
Two More Towns Captured.
BERLIN. October 24, by wireless to
Sayvllle. N. Y.?The capture of the Rumanian
town of Rashova, in Dobrudja.
on the Danube, below Tchernavoda, was
announced today by the war office.
Medjidie. on the Tchernavoda-Constanza
railroad, also has been captured.
German and Austro-Hungarian forces,
after a violent engagement south of
Kronstadt, Transylvania, 3'esterday.
captured Predeal, says the official
statement issued today. Six hundred
prisoners were taken.
"The enemy is yielding in confusion
before our right wing," says the statement.
"The pursuing cavalry of the
(Teutonic) allies has reached the district
of Tzara Murat (sixteen miles
northwest of Constanza). Medjidie and
Ilashova were captured after violent
"fti'Li'ift. iiaiuuiuji
that reported October 21, is seventyfive
officers, 6,693 men, one flag, seventy-two
machine guns, twelve cannon
and one mine thrower. The losses of
the Rumanians and the Russian reinforcements
hastily sent in are heavy.
The fortress of Bucharest has been
once more bombarded."
PetrogTad Reports Retirement.
PETROGRAD. October 24, via London,
1:17 p.m.?The occupation of Constanza
and Medjidie in Dobrudja by
forces of the central powers is announced
in today's war office report.
Under hostile pressure, says the statement,
the Russian and Rumanian
troops retired to the heights north of
these places.
No notably important operations
along the Rumanian northeastern
front are reported in the official announcement
which follows:
"Rumanian northeastern front?In
the valley of the River Trotus the enemy
remains passive. Along the BuzeuDobrana-Kimpolung
line an artillery
duel is proceeding. Enemy attacks in
the region of Orsova were repelled by
jur fire.
"Dobrudja front?Under pressure of
Lhe enemy our troops and the Ru
nanians retired to the neignts north of
2onstanza and Medjidie, at the same
time resisting the enemy's advance,
rhese two points have been occupied
oy the enemy."
Attack by Rumanians.
BUCHAREST. October 24. -via L#onion,
2:57 p.m.?Rumanian troops made
in attack yesterday along: the whole
)ituz front near the Transylvaniantumanian
border. The war oflloe antounoes
the capture of ten machine
runs and several hundred prisoners.
Capture of Constanza Held
Serious Blow to Rumania ;
Now Threatened From West
y the Anoelated Pre*.
BERLIN. October 24, by wireless to
ayvllle.?Commenting on the victory
f Field Marshal von Mackensen's arlies
in the Rumanian provinces of
lobrudja, the military critic of the
iverseas News Afeocy writes:
"The capture -of Con.tansa by Bui
?r
