NIGHT
EXTRA
;T0L.ni.-NO. 35
Ctienmj
FINANCIAL EDITION
STR4
V
' JK--J-Mt"-.!?:
fettger
ITONS SEIZE
RASOVOINPUSH
ON CERNAVODA
ickensen's Troops
rge Ahead in Great
.Drive in Dobrudja
LKE" 6768 PRISONERS
AND PURSUE ENEMY
rmans Eight Miles From
ridgehead Barring Road
to Uucnarest
ILKENHAYN ATTACKS
PHIIiADELPIIIA, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1910
cmiiht. Itll, it tiii rtuo Imn Cewrsat
PUZZLE AD MAN ARRESTEE
Credit Checks on Piano Purchaws Al
lejrcd to Be Worthless
Udridge. Jr, formerly of Lancaster, now
manager of th, Wln,er Comp,
.,T?' J In8P10' . chanted
with using tho ma'ls to defraud.
Eldrldge advertised In newspapers by In
ertlnK ,mpl, ,, ,, 4ve wmt
checks to apply toward purchaslng a pano
" Is alleged these are worthless. II,
aled a hearing and cave ball for court
KAISER RETURNS TO BERLIN
Emperor Discusses General War Situ
ation With Chancellor
BntlLIN, Oct :i. The Emperor, who Is
paying a brief lslt to Berlin, conferred
with the Imperial Chancellor, Dr. von Beth
mann-Hollweg, and will continue the dis
cussions on the general situation, concern
Ing which the Chancellor and the Foreign
Secretary, Herr von Jagow, visited great
army headquarters last week.
It Is understood that there has been no
change In the situation with respect to the
United States.
attires Prcdeal, Gntcway Into!
T i M T)..M
iNuruiuiu ivuiiiuiim, in
New Assnult3
I PARIS, Oct. 24. Kaiser Wilhelm is
fted to have arrived at the Ba
ne front to supervise preparations
a heavy German counter-offensive
irth of the Sommc, the Llbcrtc. re-
ted today.
"Heary reinforcements in both men
artillery arc arriving at the Gcr-
front, the newspaper continued,
I there are indications that the Gcr-
alarmcl at the Allied advance
Bapaume, planned to rectify tho
n.V
more than half of the Con-
Ccrnnvoda Railway In his hands,
Marshal Mackonscn is advano
swiftly northward, aiming to de
ft large part of tho Russo-Ru-
iian army.
"Jfackenscn's left wing has captured
I town of Rasovo. on tho Danube, it
Is officially announced at Berlin this
on. Rasovo is only eight miles
of Cernavoda and is near tho
' bridge oven tho Danube by which
retreating Russo-Rumanians can
draw"- to old Rumania with their
and other equipment.
i Teutonic center has captured tho
ay junction of Mcdjidle, the ccn-
I point of Bupport of the Russo-Ru-
i line? TMeTrlghf wingr has awept
through Constanza in pursuit of the
ating Rumanians, pursuing cav-
r having reached tho region of Cnra-
rat.
Tlw German-Bulgar-Turkish armies
! captured 67C8 prisoners and fifty-
i machine-guns, it was officially nn-
iced at Berlin. Tho German War
e, however, claims no largo amount
booty, apparently confirming a
report that supplies were re-
from Constanza several days
RWhile Mackcnsen is winning in Do-
oja me resumption oi tne oucnsivo
Transylvania with tho purposo of
ning Rumania between eastern and
ern armies Jias met with some sue-
Berlin reported. Tho Austra
lians have captured the Rumanian
of Prcdeal after several days of
fighting near Prcdeal Pass.
tBoth the, Rumanian and Russian War
es issued statements today admlt-
the loss of Constanza, Pctrograd
ting also tho capture of Medjidie
fte Teutons. The. Rumanian War
) explained that tho Rumanian left
: had been compelled to retire from
itanza by enemy pressure, falling
: upon Caramurat
Wh the Rumanian and Russian
ents, however, announced Ru
in victories near tho Transylva-
frontier, especially in the Oituse
y, where the Rumanians attacked
fee whole front, capturing ten of-
303 men and ten machine (runs.
f'fa Macedonia-the Serbs have resumed
BROKER'S FAMILY
DRUGGED; ROBBED
ffl $100,000 GEMS
Frank Gray Griswold, of
New York, Reports Big
Jewel Robbery
WHOLE HOUSE SEARCHED
CeaUnaed en Pass few. Column Twe
:--THE WEATHER
WEATHER FORECASTS
f tjeto dfoeovtrv ' solar v(e by
i cst for Pennsylvania:
uwy. October 3, to Tuesday, October
-no nral Halt of tho week will nave
aerate temnr ttirf ialnir ami fnfraii
I -oudlnese. breaking Into rain Tuesday.
"my, November i, to Saturday, No
tCool movement la due Wednea-
end Thursday, with plearlng and -
iviucr, ana mere will e general
dally to the week-end,
lerel weather m&viaulf dim
J v-nent number l due to de.
in Aorthwee. UnHed mates October
A 111, be an average movement, pre
' y rough. ralrorwe-ther, and bringing
l'f ,mually the, whole eouniry east
i Rockies, iaaiug the M.
aeri .movement u diu " i
i'l.ib rnoderata to bv mve-
-( mxti weather 1 Mm JforWiweet.
GOVEttNMSNT FQXMCAST
rr MUuUlpkiq tmd vieMiyFmr
f,0HoKj y tHtrnume dmtK-
w4tli4ay; jiAtjmuch thtmfi fs
"Mr; woUwaU Horlhu( vm.
NEW TOItK. Oct U One of the biggest
robberies about New York In years was
reported to the police today when Frnnk
Orey CJrlawoId, prominent Wall street and
sporting man, told of burglars entering his
Long Island home last night and escaping
with Jewelry and allver alued at between
110.000 and 1100.000. This estimate of the
low was made by Griswold and his wife,
who motored In to headquarters to report
tho robbery.
CJrlswold, his wife and Mrs. Orlswold's
daughter. Miss Mary Canfleld, In the pala
tial residence near Itoslyn. one of the show
places of Long Island, are belleted to have
been chloroformed by the robbers.
Griswold and Mrs. Griswold told tho
police they awoke this morning with severe
headaches and the daughter was 111.
In one of the rooms was found a rag
or 'handkerchief, which was believed to
havo been saturated with chloroform and
to have been used In rendering 'members
of the household unconscious. Footprints
were found In all of the sleeping rooms,
which led to the belief that the burglars
went systematically about their work of
taking every precaution against being dis
turbed. fc
The burglars apparently took their time
about robbing the house after they were
sure tho family were under the Influnce
of the drug. They ransacked drawers
and closets throughout the house, opened
Jewel cases and picked out Only the most
costly gems, and pltcd the empty boxes up
behind curtains in rooms on the lower
floor.
Griswold notified Sheriff Fettlt, of Nas
sau County, of the robbery, but owing to
the value of the Jewels and silver taken
gave tho New York police also all details.
Indications were that the robbers came
to the house and escaped In an automobile,
Griswold said. Automobile tracks leading
up to the house were found In the grass.
There are twelve servants In the house, but
Griswold said allxof th;m declared they
did not hear any noise during the night.
No trace of the robbers has been found.'
PERSHING'S HANDS ARE TIED
WITH VILLA ALMOST IN GRASP
U. S. Agreement Probably Prevents
Early Capturo of Outlaw
Bv a Staff Ctrrttpondtnt
WASHINGTON. Oct 21. With General
Pershing sixty miles north of where Villa la
now attacking the Carranza forces, and
more capable now than In April last of, cap
turing1 the outlawed bandit his hapds are
tied by the order from Washington com
pelling him to remain Inactive. If he moves
southward the de facto government will
renew Its demands that the American troops
be withdrawn from Mexico.
In brief, the situation as explained by
those who know, a that this Government
will do nothing to disturb the present status
quo until after election. It then. If Persh
ing should carry out h!s original orders
and seek to capture Villa, the Atlantlo City
conference would go to pieces.
ELECTRIC DEVICES
PRAISED AS GREAT
BOON TO SURGERY
Cancer Cures Demonstrated
at Annual Clinical Con
gress Here
GAFFNEYURGES
TAXES CONTROL
BYCITYCOUNCIL
Finance Chairman
Sends Open Letter
to the Mayor
STRIPS THE REVISION
BOARD OF POWERS
NIGHT
EXTRA-
"" " ' ' "-- Miami n ,,mm
'
Favors Taking by City of
Many Items Paid to
A State
PLAN ENFORCED IN 1918
USE OF THE CISTOSCOPE
"Do It electrically," is a slogan of the
surgeons also.
It was made known to the laity today by
tho surgeons attending the seventh an
nual clinical congress of surgeons In Phil
adelphia that electricity had proved to be
a cure for several different types of can
cer. And electricity Is also used to "light
Up" the Inner parts of the human body,
and the smallest twists and turns of the
human Interior, while the surgeon handles
his Instruments with deftness and precision.
Dr. L. T. Ashcraft conducting a cllnlo
this morning In Hahnemann Hospital, re
mo ed a cancer from a patient which had
caused suffering for two years, and an
nounced when he was through that It never
would recur. He performed the operation,
using n cjstoecope which to the laity might
be described as an electrically lighted per
iscopeand a long, electrically charged
needle. The cancer was remoed from a
hidden part of the blrdder of the patient
and the base of It was cauterised with an
electric needle.
USE OP ELECTIUCITY
Doctor Ashcraft demonstrated to the
lsltlng surgeons the new "fulguratlon"
treatment for small growths, which In
clude tho use of the cytoscope and a nne
wire attached to an electrlo battery. The
patient is conscious while the operation la
being made, only a local nnesthetlo being
used.
"Electrlolty." said Doctor 'Ashcraft. "Is
far superior to radlunl fn Ihe treatment of
cancer. But. of course, the knfe Is the
best method of treating a patient suffering
from a. malignant growth. Thousands, of
deaths could be axolded every year If sur
geons would operate Instead of using medi
cal treatment. Many cases are diagnosed
as kidney trouble when it Is simply bladder-
trouble."
Uolllng water Injected Into the glands
of a goiter Is the method used In the
treatment of that ailment at the Jewish
Hospital, Dr. Nathanlal Olnsberg said to
day. He conducted a clinic for the sur
geons, at the' hospital, using boiling water
on six patients. He said the treatment had
had good results.
At the Penns) Ivanla Hospital cllnlo this
morning. Dr. L. It Lewis, of Lexington,
Ky., performed a remarkable bloodless tonsil-removal
operation, which la said to be
entirely new. No knife was used, but at
wire was placed about the tonsil and grad
ually closed In so that the wound was not
left open, and allowed do blood whatever
to flow.
nnitAitKAULn opeiutio.ns
At the Philadelphia General Hospital, Dr.
H. It Loux, of "Philadelphia, operated on
a man with an hour-glass stomach, caused
by cancer, and made an entirely new pas
sage for the connection between the In
testine and the stomach.
At the Medlco-Chlrurglcal Hospital, D.
Continued en rare Twe. Column Three
GaTney'8 Suggestions
for Taxation in City
1 Councilman! control of nil
municipal taxation.
2 The stripping of the Board
e of Revision of Taxes of
many of Us powers.
3 Taxes now paid to tho State
to be paid to city in future.
4 Legislative enactments en
e larging municipal powers.
5 New methods of taxation,
Including tho dropping of
suburban rate on realty and the
continuation of the two clnsscs of
city and farm.
6 Taxes upon automobiles,
e ground rents, insurance
companies and the removal of the
State tax now on city bonds.
7 The payment to the city of
o the collateral inheritance
tax and the mcrcantllo license tax.
Councllmanlo control of municipal taxa
tion, the stripping of the Hoard of rtcvtslon
of Taxes of many of Ita powers, new kinds
of taxation and the taking over by the city
oi several masses oi taxation wnicn nre
now paid Into the State treasury,, are the
revolutionary methods which Chairman
Gaffney, of Councils' Klnanco Committee
advocates In an effort to replenish the city
.treasury In years to come.
In an open letter to Mayor Smith and
Councils the Hnanclal expert gtes the con
clusions reached by himself after months
of. study tn an effort to place the city on a
pay-as-you-go basis. Although he has made
no estimate of the additional revenue to
bo had by .the city. If his plans are ap
proved, ho cites Instances where several
millions of dollars can be added by the
diversion of State taxes to the city.
His letter,, which Includes an exhaustive
history of previous efforts to obtain by
taxation new reenues for the city. Is dou
bly significant In view of the fact that Mr.
Gaffney has gone over most of the field with
executive to many of the plans before jnak
Mayor Smith nnd had the approval of the
ing them public.
CHANGE OK METHODS
Among the more Important suggestions
made by Mr. Gaffney, who Is considered by
many tho mouthpiece of the Administration,
Is one looking toward the Introduction al
the coming session of the Legislature of
bills changing In every way tho present
methods employed by'tho Hoard of Revision
of Taxes which he brands as obsolete. His
plan calls for Councllmanlo control after
I91S of all tax assessments. s
The collateral Inheritance tax now paid
to the State Is demanded for the city, as
Is also the mercantile llccnso tax. The
latter tax alone would Increase the city's
Income at least 11,200,000 annually. An
other suggested change Is to Impose a tax
'upon the fire Insurance companies which
are exempted under the act of 1JU.
After a lengthy historical review of
QUICK NEWS
$5000 EVEN BET ON ELECTION
NEW YOniC, Oct. 21. Fivo thousand dollars was placed at even
money on the presidential election on the curb today. Odda quoted
wcro nine nnd ono-linlf to ten on Wilson, -with Hughes backers asking
even.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
Tlrst Laurel. race, 2-rnr-olds, selling, 0 furlongs Kabo, ill,
Olcrt, 912.10, 910.10, 95.10, won; Cherry Jtlpc, 110, T.-McTnggart,
$l.ao, 93.00, second; dlory llelle, 113, Robinson, 93.20, third. Time,
l.M 3-5.
Second Lnuicl race, maidens, all agcu, 1 mile Xyloii, 110, Hob
Inson, 92.SO, IJ3.00, 92.20, won; N. K. Deal, OS, Obert, 94.00, 93.OO,
second; Life, 100, Ball, 93.30, third. Time, 1.41 1-3.
ELLIS, WIFE SLAYER, DIES OF SELF-INFLICTED WOUND
William Howell Ellis, wlio shot und killed his wife, Mrs. Augusta Wllloughby
Kills, and then turned tho n capon upon himself, died shortly before midnight of
tho aelf-lnlllctcd wound at tho Chestnut Hill Hospital. He suffered a relapse yes
terday afternoon after timing made two attempts to cscapo from tho hospital.
Tho shooting occurred nt tho Ellis homo, Honeybrook rnrms, on North llcthlchem
pike near Hannocliburn ncnuo. Ambler, October 7, during ono of tho mental de
lusions from which Ellis suffered.
DU PONT PROFITS EXCEED TOTAL OF 8 PREVIOUS YEARS
Tho profits of K. I. tlu Pont do Nemours & Co, powder makers, for 1915 exceed
the combined totals of the eight previous jcars. Tho cnrnlngs last year, according
to tho rijturns of the company, wcro $57,840,768, or 113,178,040 greater than thoso
of tho last eight carn preceding. A new record Is expected when earnings for
tills car are mitdo public
GABRILOWITSCH, PIANIST, WILL LIVE AT ARDMORE
Philadelphia's musli-al colony will rccelvo a notable addition wlthtn a month,
when Osslp Gnbrllowltsch, tho ptnnlst, nnd his wife, Clara Clemens, daughter of
Mark Twain, move to their now home at Ardmore, which they have leased. -Gabrilo-wltsch,
his friends say, desired to live In Philadelphia because of his friendship for
Leopold StokowskI, leader of tho Philadelphia Orchestra, and his regard for that
organization's weekly concerts.
Continued en Til Seven, Celsmn One
U-53 SUNK, BRITISH
CAPTAIN REPORTS
Submarine Wrecked by Patrol
Boat Off Nova Scotia, Is
Assertion
" . ...
"".,., R
tr,
tt
XsOiOTkt Utf AV
.18 25k: :-
WAJUt klVKK Tlim CltaWttlN
HEHTNl 1 'jllltr.l'
'l.r,. T u V hi.
1 1 in U U
, i-a vri mm at slum mul'm
.ui.cm
3,
-j j
BOSTON, Oct 24. The U-81, the sensa
tional submarine raider which sank five
merchant vessels off Nantucket Lightship
on October 8, has been sunk by the British
patrol boat Stanley, according to an unoffi
cial report In Canada, brought here today
by Caj)taln W a. Tudor, of the British
freighter Hochelaga. The U-51 is supposed
to have been trapped and destroyed while
Jytag off Sydney, N, 8., watting for troop
stlps. Captain Tudor, who arrived here
teday with a cargo of eeal fri Leukburjr,
Cape Breten. said!
"Just Wore I If ft Loultuu.rr J was told
that I need net worry about submarine.
According to the story I heard, tbe U-SI
was waiting to g4 a shot at semi tree,
hiss when the (Haniey atumWed across her,
damaged her as she aoutd not submerge attdj
then slc her. I sJ't know what fcap-1
pened to ner erow. 1
M Mtchos to CkM Km Wotmek
tssitr nlns stHohea wet nsen.inry today
to eos tfM wounds of Josef Oeiuner, a
kJoonkoepor, of tit W sirest, ftp was
ifi-tr- want a.raaor by a pegro ettortly
bWo saktotoht, OosmIm-,1 la ftt. Joseph's
Hospital probably will oovor. A imnrmny
U the polios, Joseph Johnson, a negro, at
.Vmth street near Poplar, was thrown out
of tli saloon earlier In the evoolnc. Ha
i etui sed mter wHb Jornos Black, a noaro,
f mo name aefets. who 4M the outttaf
Black rnahsst iMHSler Ul col ww
tfc smoa.
mmK mm
THREE STATES JOIN
IN ATTEMPT TO SOLVE
ACUTE MM PROBLEM
Commissioners 'From Delaware,
Maryland and Pennsylvania
Aim to Aid Producer,
Dealer arid Consumer
PLEADS TO BE SAVED
FROM "DOPE" HABIT
Boy Tells Magistrate Ho Can
Buy Narcotics for "25 Cents
a Shot"
NO WARRANT TO FIX RATE
Representatives of three States met this
afternoon at the Chamber of Commerce
for the purpose of discussing the milk
situation and arranging plans of distribu
tion and prloe whleh would be fair to the
producer, dealer and consumer
The chief abject of the oonferenee le to
prevent if possible an Increase la the price
of milk. The States represented are Penn
sylvanta, Delaware and Maryland, and the
eonferees,yho are designated as eommts
loners, will endeavor to bring about an
suitable olut(on of the whole susleet. The
meeting was sailed a the result of a sug
gestion made by the Public Ledger.
This (Kate Is represented at the meeting
br Crte K. Fatten, Seeretory1 of Agri
culture. In order that the State's attitude
on the matter may be defnkety -nr-rtinsi
Governor Brumbaugh sent tho following
letter to Mr, FMton, who to noting as his
lajiimsnimiyst,
"When tho milk SMtnmisalon meets to
Wsttsdilphm on Tuooaoy sent, may I sug
'Ms. taot It might bo wtof tar you to bo
nouio tain asoot vtui your a.
Narcotlo drugs are so easily procured
that a seventeen-year-old addict, who de
clared that he coud purchase "dope" for a
quarter a "shot." pleaded today to be pro
tected from drug venders as the only
means of redeeming him from the habit
The story told by Frank Craig, of 6015
Callowhlll street, to Magistrate Pennock
at the central station caused a police In
vestigation of the neighborhood named by
the youth as an unfailing source of supply
of cocaine and heroin.
"Send me somewhere, so that I can't buy
any more," pleaded the youthful victim
of the habit, who was arraigned on a charge
of attempting to beat his mother and" grand
mother whlje under the, Influence of drugs.
"JSend me away, where It can't get me,
. "I oan buy1 all the dope I want, down at
ttlghth'and Vine streets. If the easiest
thing in the world to, get oooalne and heroin
there. All I have to pay for It W n quarter
a ahot. " Please send me away, so I oan't
buy any more."
In the meantime, aetlng on Information
given to the (felloe by tho yeueh, detec
tives beaax a eemUag proems In the v4
canity of Isigbth and Vine streets fr the
"oeW psdelsrb who prey en men of Craig's
?Why don't you stop uelng 'oope'T naked
Xajriperote f natter
"stay l easuo, it only i oeulorrt buy
,- Tseynnesn uw youw. "sui.i oan't atop
when I oan get all I'wsnt for a quarter a
hot- 'I'm so used, to taking it tbailput it
to ssjsrijtsi so I can kvo It whan I ennt
jri- Hans, U gou want to hnto sns,
1 esn ft it,"
"MILLIONAIRE" FIREMEN STRIKE; WANT ENGINEER BACK
Twenty uctho members of the" Old York. Itoad Flro Company, known as "tho
Millionaire Fire Company," havo gone on strike nnd will not answer any fire alarms
until niclmrd Bryan, for many years engineer of tho company, Is reinstated by
tho board of directors. Two weeks' notice has been given tho board to reinstate
him nnd unless ho Is taken back they will resign.
ALEXANDER BROWN
SOCIETY MAN, WES
IN AIRSHIP SMASH
Student at Essingtpn Schpof
Crashes to Death as Ma
chine "Skida"
FALLS sINJO DELAWARE
snttonVT'' C- sflsssssW
snnnnnnnnnnVsjaa,i l
sBssnnnnnnnl. , "' flBssHH
ssssssssssssssn Ist -',' assrXBsssB
sssssssssssssssnVVlV rntSBHH '
ssssssssssssssssU-JSP- amafiBssssm
ssnasssssssssB sBlkv sssssssssssnassH
snnsnsnni
I sssPBesssssssssssssssnsPlin
i S-$2 "" mmmmmmWmHP geSssssssssB
t jsf V HslHslnMHsjlsslH .
fti; PillSB
imftmT' - m-a9Xssn
ismmHsBtiiay JKtkkssssBsI
,W
jF
'jV
ALEXANDER BROWN
Alexander Brown, noted polo player and
wealthy aviator, of Ilosemont, was Instantly
killed today at the aviation school at Bs
slngton, when hla machine balked in mid
air The hydroaeroplane skidded at an alti
tude of aeventy-nvo feet above the Dela
ware niver as Mr, Brown, miscalculating
the distance to tho surface, made too sharp
a turn as he headed toward the Pennsyl
vania shore near the end of Tlnlcura
Island, With the planes almost vertical
and offering virtually no resistance, the
machine suddenly fell, plunging to the
water and diving with terrlfta toVce below
the surface.
CONDEMNS GERMAN OPPOSITION TO FEEDING POLAND
AMSTEItDAM, Oct. -24. Cardinal Mercier, Archbishop of Mallnos, Belgium, Who
has frequently clashed with tho German military authorities, has Issued a pastoral
lotter condemning Armenian massacres and German opposition to America's plans
for the feeding of Poland. In deflnnce of Germany, ho predicts that Belgium's Inde
pendence will poslthcly bo restored.
- MISS EMILY P. HARRIS, DEBUTANTE, HAS PARALYSIS
Miss Emily Pepper Harris, granddaughter of Ethelbert Watts, United States
Consul General at Brussels, Belgium, and a debutanto this year, has contracted a
light case of Infantile paralysis and Is being treated at the home of an aunt, Mrs.
William A. Plattt at Penllyn. 8ho attended a luncheon given by Miss Margaret
Borwlnd nt Wclrwood, Iladnor, Jn honor of Miss Katherlne Christina Lea Monday
of last vcek. Miss Harris, whoso homo Ih with a greatunele, Sydney Wright, of
Germantown, It. tho daughter of tho late Francis Chambers Harris. Her mother
remarried. She is Mrs. Clark Mellcn, or New Tork.
A
RAPS PATHOLOGICAL CONDITION AT WASHINGTON
Dr. John B. Deaver. addressing the Clinical College of &urronna In the hull.
room -of the Bellovue-Btrntford, sold "tho pathological. condition pf affairs, inthtt. -Hr- Prown. yos. .Imcust Inutnvntly f klHod,
Administration at Washington should be cut out. "Vacillation should not be coun- Itls believed. Mechanicians "in a.' motoi
tenanced In national or surgical affairs." boat, which as following the aeroplane on
Its pilot's course, rushed to the scene and
divers recovered t)ie body, which was
crushed by the engine. The body of Mr.
Brown, who was forty-two years old, was
taken to Darby by Coroner Charles It,
Brewea, of Darby, who will hold an Inqdest
late this afternoon.
Tho flight waa the final one of a series'
that would have qualified Mr. Brown for
a diploma of the Philadelphia School of
Aviation. lie was making the turns on
the pilot's course when the machine wheeled
too sharply.
WIFE OPPOSED STUDY
Mr. Brown Is survived by his wife and
three t sons. It Is understood that 'Mrs.
Brown was opposed to his activity in avia
tlon lines and always feared that he woulA
meet with a traglo death.
Word of his death spread quickly along
the Main Line and many called to condole
with the family.
Robert Johnson, head Instructor of tho
aviation school, described the accident.
"I noticed something was wrong," ho
said. "Last night Mr. Brown had flown
alone and the flight was fine. Today when
he went upj saw something was wrong. It
looked as though a different man was fly
ing entirely. He was making the rounds of
the pilot's course. I noticed that he waa
taking the turns too sharply1, .the" angle ,of
the machine giving him no support from tho
air."
"Bight at the end of Tlnleum Iiland,
continued the Instructor, "he turned toe
sharply, The machine started to fall f rem
the height of seventy-five feet, Mr. Brown
was dead when we reached him." ,
Mrs. Brown was Miss May G. Xebee.
She Is the daughter of Mrs, R. Penn Smkh.
Mrs. Clarence Dolan Is a later of the dead
polohvt
FAMOUS IN POLO
Mr. Brown, who was the sob of the late
Kelson Brown and grandees of tbe lata
Alexander Brown, Br., aoMeyed tbe dis
tinction of being one of the moot famous
polo players In the country no' oaptaln of
the Bryn Mawr loam. Through his -r
forts, and those of W, T, Tevls Jauhn, tho
but polo tournament of the ywHansl Pete
Association was brought to this oily.
AtWflntsfelag hie education nt Tate, Mr.
Brown, fpmHterly known as "Young AUo."
entered the banking house . - wa
TWO PAPAL NUNCIOS TO BE MADE CARDINALS
HOME, Oct. -4. I'opo Benedict has decided to hold a secret consistory Decem
ber 4 und a public consistory December 7, at which ho will create new cardinals.
jTJio rod hat jll bo conferred on Monslgnor Count llaffaelo Scaplnelll, former papal
flunclo at Viennu, and Slonslgnor Fruewlrth, former nuncio at Munich. Monslgnor
r-i ew.'rth wl" ho replaced at Munich by Monslgnor Aversa, papal nuncio In Brazil,
fivno Is now on his way to Borne. '
THAW STUMPS AGAINST JUDGE BECAUSE OF RULING
NV YOItK, Oct. 24. Harry Kendall Thaw made his debut as a political
speaker when ho addrssed a street-corner meeting of 300 persons' in tho Browns-
vlllo section of Brooklyn. He advocated the candidacy of Frank II. Hlscock for
Chief Justice of. the Court of Appeals. He urged the voters not to favor Hlscock'a
rival, Almet M. Jenks, saying tho latter, as a Supreme Court Justice, had rendered
three unjust decisions In Thaw's own case.
ZEPPELIN FLOTILLA SIGHTED OFF NORWEGIAN COAST
COPENIIAO-N, Oct. 24, The National Tldende publishes a telegram from
Chrlstlanta saying that eight. Zeppelins on Saturday night passed the station of
Hlnna, about a mile from Stavanijrr, on the southwest coast of Norway,
SIXTEEN OF BRITISH CREW LOST IN CARIBBEAN
NEW ORLEANS, Oct. 24, Sixteen of the crew of the steamship I. Edward
Hlnes, Including Captain F, M. McKelge, Jr., were drowned when she was sunk In
the Caribbean Sea forty-five miles east of Belize, British Honduras, In the tropical
hurricane on October 15, according to a wireless today from Dellze. Only; three of
the crew were saved.
I
GUFFEY PREDICTS SUCCESS FOR DEMOCRATS
That Ponnsyhanla, outside of Philadelphia, will give President Wilson Its
majority tote on November 7 and go Democratic for the first time since 185$, was
the prediction of Democrats State Chairman Guffcy, speaking to the Democratic
City Committee today,
i ',
FOUR INJURED WHEN POWDER CAR BURNS
PENNsailOVB, N. J., Oct. 24,r-Two men were burned, it la believed fatally
and two others were slightly injured when two car- of powder which wore being
unloaded at a sorting house In the Carnejr's rolnt powder plant caught flro from a
park and wero destroyed. The aorlouoly injured wore sent to trie Delaware Hos
pital, Wilmlngtqn, They ro Thomas W. MlHr, twenty-seven yearn old, of Xew
York, find F, J Boyer, thlrty-ovn yeas old, of 1819 Bouth Third street, nhll.
oeVphi.
TEN FIRST INFANTRY OFFIC1RS MAY QUIT
Friction tn the First Pennsylv-nk Infantry wH reouH la Mm nstanatfoij of
ton of Hie officers as seen as the regiment's, affairs are settled with He Government.
actor-Jug" to mm of. the oMoers, A jUeregard for prowotinn Ih order of seniority Jo
tho chief jCue for (Uncontest, it was said. Another officer M that mature wore
(tot In aue) bd bape and that while there was oecUUn disesntewt be did bm be
lieve thai tho oMeers l question. would reln.
-, , - ,
URGB6 PBRMANBNT UNION AGAINST GWt-OKI
XOMDOJf, Oct. 4 Paul QawUoo, tho lroAoh wfcnsssdar to Oroat Britain,
deatorod toduy that tho AllUs were grouped In a solid tiaity aatwt the proUaaioae
9t Ooftay to unlvorda) dainloa, and Would ce-ttowo tho -mwr until those pre.
taoj-OM wom dasoatod, Whoa tM w to o-or, bo anid. tho im ow w aU-ua
mm ewtivm to . s (kM ww to vhtob nUtomi Mt-M m to
yre-orvod. 7
c
TETANUAFTEJtVAXaXATiO:
SiiUW Drofw Fr Xotm Ityik M
Teienue, whleh' Ht l I VMsUwUli
wieand when Uf lntoM dMd of, esU-tj
9V WV4w isp( s pB V
to the ,Jetfhr-M PfMl Tho o-ltf wg
mmtmm ao py me rmsh'
eeM m to -wat.
The kkleid drowed ocl whie eke child
nt ptof and ft to wppesed UMtt n gat
nt tlo wound. Tetanus Ml l u Oe
Whir II nad too ohlid ooudition Vnome
jMoetlve Ftank Paul, of the iireoer'a
offtoe, to making an lr.vaatiaiiut WIUIms
juoa, rat onuas reiner. iota tu y that :
oener no wim coun b -T-irtieo to
pay-man who vauinuiea tne -nla. 1 :
e eooa ver
-gno irlrHJlt
Wf no
iMe
rfT
