Arizona State Fair and Exposition, November 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, 1916
nn
'HE ARIZONA. REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TW KNTY -SEVENTH YEAH
10 PAGES
PnOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MOIJXINd, OCTOHER 24, 191G
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVI I., NO. 158
IS T
E
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
l. iNl i.N, ct
Another import-'
out cuiiinliiition to the discussion of
j.jce was made liy Viscount Grey,
oc ret a ry for foreign affairs, at u lunch
given today by the Foreign I'ress As
m lution. at which the diplomatic rep
icsctitativ cs ot all the allied countries
were present.
The foreign secretary made it plain
thai tin- ailies were nut prepared to
it . uss peace terms and gave no indi
cation i f what their terms might be.
i tit welcomed any efforts by neutral
fiintries for a commission to prevent
future wars. Some of the most im
p. n.i'it passages of the secretary's
hti h fopow:
I would like to talk, not, Indeed.
;:!' it actual conditions of peace, which
i.tii only I stated am) formulated liy
.!.e all.es together and not liy any one
ihem separately, hut about the gen
eral objects which the allies must se-
urc i!i this war. And to do that 1
would ask you to recall that we must
r.eer forget how the war came about.
It we are to approach peace in a piop
er spirit it can only he by recollecting
and recalling, and never for a iiiotnen:
!-..fccttttig what was the real cause of
tie war.
Some people say, ' 'h, we need not
j:.. hack over Uiat old ground now; 1
v ,-r Pody know s it."
"You cannot go l ack to it too often
It afiects the conditions of peace. Ger
many talks of peace: her statesmen
t. ik of peace today. They say: Ger
man m'ust have guarantees against
i.-irg attacked attain.' If this war had
I -.n forced uion (iermany that would
cc a logical statement. It is precisely
" a-ise it was not forced upon Ger
nmtiy. hut was forced by Germany
lit. ..1' E.irope that it is the allies who
n ' have guaiantees for future
! 1 -e.
. In July. l'.'M. no one thought of at
ti king Germany. It is said thst Rus
sia was the first to mobilize. That, I
1 Servian. I. is what is reresented in
Geimany as justification for the state
n.ept that the war was not an aggres
( ih war on Germany's part, hut was
f -reed upon her.
' Russia never made the mobilization
. -r whah Germany has complained un
t I after Germany i.ad refused a con
ference, mid never made it until after
Oie report appeared in Ge-manv thai
' manv he. I ordered mo-. Miration and
that report had been telegtaphed to
1 .-ti.gra.1
The wiio'e i.lan of rnmnaipn of the
German siaff was attack thrumrh Rel
rmm and now it is reoresonte.l that
;i..v tad attacked through I'eliritin
.... .,n. other peop'e had plar."ed to
j.tta.k through Belgium. I would like
1...H. 1. r l etter than to see those state
v etit t'.iM Russia's mobilization was
: aggressive one and that othr pow
er at.v other t.ower. had traffake.l in
t'e neutial.tv .f I'eleium or nlar.ned
:.i afn k th'ough Belgium I wouU.
1 e to see those statements invest i-i-ced
l-efore any independent impar
t il tribunal.
G. 'man organization is very suc
'. ful in some things, but in nothing
more successful than in preventing the
truth, from reaching their people and
to t -e-enting to them a noint of view
... V . h m not that of truth.
' When England proposed a confer
irr. Russia. France and Italy accept
ed the mnfeeeni e. And one power re
J,.sd it. When four powers ofered
lonference and one power refused
it. is it the powers which offer the
or.ference who are forcing the war or
is o the iM.Aer that Is refusing i!'.'
The Mnwn.r of Russia offe-ed The
t-c ie trihcnal Wen one sovereign
t.ffern The Hague tribunal and another
r.fi-r it. is it the sovereign who of
f - the conference to The Hague
u'o.h is forcing war?
1111 the very eve of war France gave
her pledges to respect the neutrality
(.f I'eig um if Germany would not vio
late it And we asked for sm h
(.'edges Was it the power which
h.'kM for a 'ledge and the power
!.ih gave a pled-e which were re-r-.nsil
le for the violation of the neu-
iContinued on Pugs Seven)
E
(Republican A. P. Leased Wirel
CHICAGO. Oct. 23. Charles C.
Healey. chief of police, was indicted on
two charges on returns made in the
.r:rninal court here today. The first
indictment accuses him of malfeasance
11 nd the second names the chief, Wil
liam I.uthardt, his secretary, and
'buries T. F.ssig, secretary of the
SK.rtsman' club, oo-cotispirators in a
plot to nullify the anti-gambling laws.
Capiases for the arrest of the three
men were issued, but State's Attorney
Hoyne ordered that they be withheld
r.td tomorrow when the indicted men
w ill t allowed to surrender and give
l..md. After the return of the lndict
inei.ti. the state asked for the dismls-
! of the hearing on an application
f..r warrants for Healey and others
I fore Judge Olson. Judge Olson will
give bis decision on the application to
morrow. tie announced.
In the f rt count. Chief Healey was
Hcc!id of wiltul and corrupt omission
of hi duties as chief of police in per
m'tting the ojteratlon of gambling
r.riis, allovvin-i the sale of liquor with
out licenses, failing to interfere with
proMiiplior., and '.n making f 'Ise state-:n-nt
to .Mayor n h..m son In o-1er t
restoru s;il.on licenses which had been
revoked. The second count was sim
ilar i the firt and ciiarged Healey,
I. utti. 1.1 t and F.ssig with conspiracy to
e.late the laws.
Bonds for Hie release of Chief Healey
aid Cte others were signed tonight.
Mavor Th'mrson announced that he
would not nispend tne police chief in.
nue of the indictment.
I". H. o Ootinell. attorney charged
with Charles H KrhMein with subor
nation of perjury today served notice
oi Marlay Hoyne, state's attorney.
that h would file a petition in the
FUTURE M
c
IT T T
LAKES GALE
PLACED ABOVE FIFTYl
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
l)K1 R 'IT, Mich., Oct. 2S. CJreat
lake vessels passing here this after
noon and early tonight from iJike
Krie ports brought no more bodies
of victims of the terrific gale of Fri
day or word to indicate that any
oilier vessels than those already re-
ported, had gone down m the storm.
men moK a ion 01 moie icao nnj
Uses and four steamers.
All hope that the steamer Merida.
lomj overdue at Buffalo, had escaped
the storm, was dispelled today when
it was learned that several bodies,
some of them wearing lifebelts
stamped "Merida" were picked tip in
Lake Krie by tie steamers W. H.
Mathtrws and Charlotte I!. I'.reituns
The Merida was. commanded by Cap
tain H. I Jones, of Buffalo. She
carried a crew of 23 men. all of whom
are believed to have perished. Twenty-one
lives were lost witli the whale
I ack steamer James B. Colgate, an 1
six when the 1. U Filer foundered.
A.I thirteen of the crew of the Mar
shall F. llutters were rescued when
COLONEL ROOSEVELT
CRITICIZES MEXICAN
POLICY OF
-
-
EYES OF BABY ARE I
VALUED AT $25,000 '
I PAN' FRANCISCO, Oct. 23.
I The value of a baby's eyes was
I fixed at $j:..o'i0 here today by j
Judge Frank J. MurasUy in su- I
! tierior court, who gave judgment
; for that amount to the parents of 1
! .Mary Kill do, one year old, against j
; Mrs. Ama!ia Kaz.uoli. a graduate 1
1 mid-wife. It was alleged that the
I the mid-wife failed to care for j
' the baby's eyes properly at hit til !
I and now the eyes are sightless.
! "A pair of baby's eyes are price- i
I less." said Judge Murasky. "No !
' amount of money that this or any 1
i one could give, no matter bow
! large the amount win. I I comp.'ti
i sate for the loss of this baby's
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST L.OFIS, Oct -3. Jews who have
accepted Jesus Christ as the Messiah
and have become communicants of the
Protestant Episcopal church, may re
tain, if they desire, the Jewish national
and racial customs and feasts, accord
ing to a ruling of the house of depu
ties of the church's general convention
in session here today.
The action was based upon a resolu-
turn wnicn nail oeen presenteu t.y tne
' sight." , 1 I
JfflS REED iT
Diwcusn
Rev. Floyd . jompkms, of I'hiladei- mounted escort including u dozen fur
phia. It was asserted that there are mer Rough Riders and two "cowgirls."
in the l'nited States hundreds of Je.vs Misses Thelma and Naomi Ruth
who have accepted Christ and yet have Louden. The girls presented Mr.
hesitated to affiliate with Christian Roosevelt with bouijuets at the end of
denominations because they do not the parade and were thanked and corn
care to abandon their rac ial customs, plimented with Roosevelt heartiness.
Kfforts to have women permitted to; Colonel Roosevelt .spoke at ten
sit as delegates in the house of depu- o'clock from a platform erected in
ties of the convention were abandoned front of a down town hotel. He did
today, when, on the heels of a rejec- not depart from his prepared address
tion at the hands of the house of bish- except to amplify It in places. A "dol-
ops, a lower house committee reported lar luncheon" was given In Mr. Roose-
the proposal adversely. 1 veil's honor at 12:30 o'clock. The
The house of deputies refused to Roosevelt party left here at 2:40 o'clock
adopt the recommendation of a special
committee proposing the present sys-
(Continued on Page Two)
L
... . , . , .
criminal court Saturday, asking that
Hoyne be barred from prosecuting the These man have perpe.rated every
perjury charges. species of outrage upon women and
In his petftion O'Donnell declares children, and have turn 1 all Mexico
that he will attempt to prove that Into a hell of starvation, disease and
Hoyne and his assistants conspired misery; they have done this with the
with criminals promising them jm- active or passive assistance of the
munlty and protection for testimony American government under 'he lead
to insure his conviction. He has state- of Mr. Wilson; and Vr. Wil -on's ele
ments, the petition continues, of three inet officer now defe s them I - the
criminals 4n the Joliet penitentiary foulest slander on the men whrVavude
that efforts were made to bribe them us a nation." '' V V
to give perjured testimony. 1 Mr. Roosevelt said that the IV' iSn
1 ne cnarges against t) uonnell and
Erbstein grew out of the trial of l'olice
captain James O Donnell Storen, who
was convicted of dealing with crim-
I'l'ils. ,
Money Comes From Endless
Chain; Promoters Missing
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MINNEAPOLIS. Oct. 23. Thous-
ands of letters, each containing ten
, ,
cents, are turned into the local post -
..fflf.u il-illil l...n. l
..... ....... .,,,,, o, u,,uun xiie volume 01 mail for the 'ex-
parts of the country who have Joined change' is rapidly growing." said Post
in an "endless chain" scheme, promoted master E. A. Purdv. "and today we re-
by the so-called National Brokerage
Exchange.
Federal agents are searching for of
ficers of the "exchange" who are
charged with using the mails to de
fraud. A room in a local business
block, to which all the letters are ad
dressed,, was suddenly vacated three
weeks aso, the authorities say.
TOLL NOW
that vessel was caught in the gale
and sank.
Three bodies picked up by the
Mathews were taken into Toledo to
day. Karly today five bodies wer?
brought to Sandwich, Ont, across the
Detroit river from this point by the
steamer Crarlette G. l'.reitnng. Thev
were picked lip !y the Breitung in
Lake Krie yesterday. Three of them
had been positively identified tonight.
Brooklyn, a toul passer, and Wm.
Bogle, of Sault Ste. -Marie. Mich., 1111
oiler, both of the crew of '.he steamer
Merida. The other was identified as
Charles B. Sutllff, chief enKinecr af
the whaleback steamer James G.
Colgate. The fourth body was be
lieved to be that of Steve Kntoin, of
Cleveland, a member of the Colgate's
crew.
The fifth body was still unidenti
fied tc night. At the office of the lo
tal marine reporters, the belief was
expressed that no other vessels than
the four reported the Marshall F.
Butters. r .. Filer, Jtimes B. Col
gate and the Merida bud gone down
in the storm.
PRESIDENT
Republican A. P. Leaied Wire
FAST LAS YKGAS, N. M.. Oct. 23.
Theodore Roosevelt in a twenty
minute speech here tonight criticised
President Wilson's Mexican policy and
urged bis hearers to vote for Charles
Evans Hughes and "real Amer
icanism, j
The L'nited States, he said, in order
to finally restore order in Mexico,
"must restore our neighbor republic
to its proper governors jul as was
done in Cuba."
Colonel Roosevelt declared that the
Wilso.i foreign policies had placed the
l'nited States In contempt before the
world.
"General ' Pershing, he said, should
have been sent after Villa 'with orders
to get him in spite of Carranza or any
other leader who, might endeavor to
interfere.' "
He added ttiat if lie were called
' upon to raise a division to go into
Mexico he would call upon citizens of
; New Mexico of .Mexican origin because
lie hud found them loyal Ameiicar and
good fighters when they served him
with his Rough Riders.
t Colonel Roosevelt left here tonight
for Colorado.
Welcomed at Albuquerque
ALIH'yi F-RQUF.. N. M., Oct. 23.
Theodore Roosevelt was given a cor
dial reception here today. He received
!a noisy greeting on his arrival ul 7:3U
o dock this morning, was cheered in a
liarade and a crowd congregated In the j
A committee of prominent republi
cans and progressives met him at the
Santa Fe station on his arrival.
Twenty-one bombs were fired, a band
played and a crowd of citizens, among
cnV;rea i-'"e..
After breakfast Mr. Roosevelt was
the central figure in a parade. He
rode in an automobile. There was
for Las egas.
In his speech Mr. Roosevelt de
nounced Secretary of War Baker for
the latter's reported comparison of
Washington's soldiers with Mexican
revolutionists anfl criticized the presi
dent for putting Baker in the cabinet
in the first place, and for keeping him
there after the reported comparison.
"This statement of Mr. Baker's,
aciiuiesced in by the silence of Mr.
Wilsjn," said Mr. Roosevelt, "shows
that Mr. Wilson, in his heart believes
that Washington was no better than
Villa or C'arranza; that the men of the
revolution stood on a level with the
' miscreant crew who during the last
j three and a half years in Mexico, have
murdered Americans by the hundreds
., Mniraiii h ih. ni n....ii.
professed sucn doctrines tvaai y
unfit to stay in the cabinet arm .'he
president who retained him was
wholly unfit to remain president of
the l'nited States.
j To every woman who would send
M" CMlt-s ln silver and write five
1 friends urging them to join in the
i t abin, the "exchange " promised a "new,
; 15117 model silk petticoat."
I ...... - ...
ceived twenty-five fthousund letters
enclosing twenty-five thousand dimes.
Thousands of the letters have been re
turned to the writers but a large ma
jority carry no return marks and as a
result the dead letter office is becom
ing cljgged. Other mail channels of
the local office are choked daily by the
influx of mail for the 'exchange.' "
Sheriff Slain
Five Hurt and
Squatter Killed
Republican A. P. Leaaed Wire
W'HITESTONK, N. Y., Oct. 23. Raul
Stler, sheriff of Queens county, was
Bhot and instantly killed and four po
licemen and a deputy sheriff were
wounded late today by Frank
Taff, a squatter near here, before Taff
eventually was killed by Police Ser
geant James Fitzgerald after a siege
of an hour and a half in which police
men, deputy sheriffs and bluejackets
from the FniUd States torpedo boat
Henly tried to capture Taff.
Sheriff Stier and two aides went to
Taff's shanty, located in a strip of
wood, to arrest him on an order for
contempt of court. Taff picked up a
shotgun and fired at them. The sher
iff dropped to the floor mortally
wounded. Taff ran to the roof armed
with a rifle.
Police reinforcements soon arrived
and the shanty was surrounded. After
five men had been wounded liy the
squatter, Sergeant Fitzgerald obtained
an automatic rifle from the torpedo
bout, and approaching the hut, ordered
Taff to surrander. Taff fired at Fitz
gerald and the latter shot and killed
him.
The police said tonight that Taff
probably had been mentally unbalanced
due to his failure to perfect the inven
tion of a "fin" propeller for motor
boats. He wasted his money, it was
said, in futile efforts to have the pro
peller placed on the market.
A judgment for Iti'jt) had been ob
tained against Taff. This was fol
lowed by a court order to show cause
in supplementary proceedings. He was
fined $2;.U for failing to appear and his
non-appearance In court again to pay
the fine led to issuance of the writ
which caused the tragedies today.
(Special to The Republican.)
NEW YORK. Oct. 23 The specious
character of the attempts made by Mr.
Wilson's campaign managers to indi
cate that Mr. Hughes has made a com
pact with citizens of foreign extrac
tion to present to the public their
views of how foreign relations should
be administered is further shown by a
letter, made public today by William
It. Willcot, chairman of the u publi
can national committee. The letter is
addressed to Henry Weismann, presi
dent of the New York state branch of
the (lerm.in American alliance. It was
written on stationery of the demo
cratic national committee and was
signed by an associate of Frederick B.
Lynch, thief of its bureau of political
organizations and clubs.
In this letter Mr. Weissman was in
vited in polite terms to meet Senator
Stone, chairman of the foreign rela-
Hons committee of the l'nited States
senate who was in New York on the
avowed mission of winning over to Mr.
Wilson's support certain citizens of
Herman birth.
'The absurd and dibingenntis phase
of the whole matter." said. Mr. Willcox.
"is tint while Mr. Wilson's managers
have charged specifically nn two sepa
rate occasions that Mr. Hughes was
compounding with a certain branch of
the electorate they themselves were
covertly soliciting in a most abject
way. the support of members of the
Ccrman American alliance." This is
the letter to Mr. Welssmann:
"New York, Sept. 11-16.
"Democratic National Committee
Headquarters,
"30 Fast Forty-Second St.
"My iJear Mr. Weissman : Senator
Stone, chairman foreign relations com
mittee will be at Waldorf on Thurs
day. Ism't you and a few of your
friends want to have an informal talk
with him on Thursday or Friday even
ing, i'hone me upon receipt of this,
Murray Hill 91i), and oblige,
"Yours very trulv,
"F. W. BANSSEN."
Mr. Weissmarm is a lawyejr at 44
Court street, Brooklyn.
Mr. Willcox went on: "The date,
September 11th, Is significant because
five days later, on September 16th, oc
curred the famous party at Terrace
Garden when Senator Stone sat up so
late making abject pleas to leading
citizens of German birth or extraction
to support the Wilson cause. He di
rected his pleas to them not as Ameri
can citizens but as Germans In the
l'nited States. Mr. Weissmann says
that he did not reply to the letter, but
that two days later he got a telephone
message from the writer, Mr. Banssen,
(Contlnued on rage Three)
Seiberlich Says
Candidate Hughes
Made No Promises
(Special to The Republican)
SEW YORK, Oct. 23. .Thei follow
ing telegram was received by I'hair
tn in Willcox, of the republican na
tional committee, this morning from
I rank SeiberlK n, whose name ap
pears In a statement issued last night
by the democratic national committee
as that of one of a committee who,
according to their statement, called
upon Mr. Hughes between September
1 and September 3, representing the
AmeiUan independence conference.
"The statement made by Mr
Hughes relative to conference with
committee of the American independ
ence conference is absolutely true.
Mr. Hughes saw the committee of
which I was a member, made no
promises, did not criticise Theodore
Roosevelt and made statement to the
committee that he stood for all Amer
ican rights.
(Signed) "Frank Seiberlich, of Fos
ton. one of the committee."
"This te'egrnm was voluntary," sail
Mr. Willcox. "and In no way solicited
or 'equesled by me or this committee."
NEW ATTEMPT
TOSHES
IDE COIKT
DOBRUDJA REGION OVERRUN
BY TEUTONS AND CONSTANZA
IS HELD
Republican A. P. Leaied Wire
C'iilCAlJi ), Oct. 23. Hugo J. Warn
er, wealthv advestising man, and
three others, all social workers, were
drowned tonight when Warner's
limousine plunged over an open dra w
iuto the Chicago river. They were
' M"'M,.,K me ...sot
giving instructions it. a settlement
.'!?e' . ., I
,.u..m.. .,.. is a, jears 010, wa.
advertising manager and director of
the firm of I-ord and Thomas He
"u "l ""'
settlement. The o hers who were
or.mncd were: Sylvan Kusel, jo
years old law student and teacher of
If, , 1' f','ro,en ';lasf-,f lh
set lenient; Miss 1 illian H. Mausner,
social worker in
Maxwell settlement
nd Hull House, and Mi
Jennie
Kla.tsr.er. Per cousin, uacher in
tn(l ,
Jewish normal training school
Mn-. Henrietta J. Warner nnd Miss
Sarah Be.nste.n U.Xh settlement
unrkfrs and hoi ologislu were resc ued
They escaped from the closed car and
wni 11111.1MI iiK.uiisi. piling uei e
thev clung
The rescued W'omen were so chilled.
it was several hours before ley were
able to talk to Identify themselves;
and the other members of the parte
rhe bruise had been dien to permit
the pissage of a boat. The women
ngree that they did not hear the
wa'ning signal and Oat no chains hud
been stretched across the roadway.
PACKING PLANT ABLAGE
'Special to The Renublic-n)
FAST ST. IXiI'lS 111.. ict. 2?.
Fire of undetermined origin burned
out the bog section of a packing
kint hi the N itional Stock Ya'ds
here' tonight and caused a loss esti
mated at $:'nti.ooo.
MUSN'T WORK POLITICALLY
(Republican A. P. Leased Wirtl
SAN FRANCISCO, Oct 1'3 Civ!-
an employes of the w estern depart -
nient or the I nited States nrmv weie
warned today bv a bulletin signed by
Major Genin.l J. Franklin Bell, com
mander of the department, not to
take part in the rational political
campaign I eyond the expression of
private opinion and voting. Solicita
tion of political funds. i was said,
'entered the solicitor liable to crim
inal i-rosecut ion, "
flUTD PLUNGES
THROUGH DDI
EH DIIED
I
1
HANLY AFTER WILSON
Republican A. P. Leased Wire . whole world has." Hanlv said.
ROCHESTER. N". Y, Oct. 23 l'n- "The president has seen the world
der the influence of a picturesque and . passing before him in triumphal march
cordial reception, J. Frank Hanly, the : toward liquor's aliolition," Hanly con
prohibition presidential candidate, to- , tinued. "But be has not changed his
niht here turned his guns on President t mind and has learned nothing con
Wilson, declaring his "standpatism" on ; cerning it. He has changed his mind
the liquor question outstripped, the on every other policy of state that has
"Aldriches. Cannons and Penroses in come before him. But on this issue
their blindest and most reactionary he still is a Bourbon, forgetting nothing
hours." j learning nothing and standing where
Han'y based his attack on letters re- he stood six years ago."
ceived by the prohitiitionists from Sec- I Save for one or two exceptions, good
retary Tumulty, declaring that the
president's attitude on the liquor issue their four stops today. Here, prohi
had stood unchanged for almost six bitionists had to employ a Salvation
years. ! Army band, because other political
"He has not changed his mind on parties had engaged the other bands
this issue in six years, though the in town for their rallies.
EIGHT OF JURY IN CDPElAND
MIIRnCR TRIM ARC Will
IIIUIIULII I IIIP.L P.IIL u uu
Republican A. P. Leaied Wire
GALVESTON, Texas, Oct. 23.
Eight of the twelve men who will try
John Copeland, a bank cashier of
Marslu.ll. for the killing of Wm.
Black, an antM'atholic: lecturer, in
that city on February 3, 1SI5, were
secured today. It is thought that the
jur- will be completed by noon to
morrow. Taking of testimony In the
tirst of the three cases resulting irom
the killing of Mack then will
begun.
Self defense will be one of the
pleas viade in Oopeland's behalf, it
was indicated an. today's session,
which opened the trial. Some of
the jurors selected today are protest
ants nr.d two are Jews. I'opeland, a
membei of the Catholic church, sat
directly behind his attorneys, but took
tm part in picking the) men who will
decide his fate. Close watch was
kent on the proceedings so that noth
ing might seep out from the court
room that would Influence witnesses
and prospective Jurors. Counsel for
both sides expressed satisfaction at
the speed .with which the case pro
reeded. U has been anticipated that
because the killing of Black grew out
of an attempt fy the three1 defendants,
f'opelund, Georce Ryan and Ge'orgo
Tier, nil Catholics, to hnve the lect
urer cease attacks on institutions of
that church, there would he great
trouble In obtaining Jurors.
The men selected for jury service
today, all residents of Galveston.
wr: : E. P Mopse, painter. Protest
am but no church affiliations.
R. G. Porridge, baker, Ge-m.in
Lutheran.
BY VON MACKENSEN
Rumania's Chief Seaport
and Fortress On Black
Sea, Falls Into Hands of
Rifilit Winj-'of Von Maok
eiiscn's Army
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The Dobrudja region of Rumania
apparently is being overrun by the
forces of the Teutonic allies.
Constanza, Rumania's chief seapoi t.
and fortress on the Hlack sea, al
ready has fallen into the hands of the
tioops of the right wing of Field
Marshal von Mackensen's army, while
the left wing is Hearing the town of
T hernavoda, where the Danube s
spanned by the bridge of the railroad
running from Constanza to Bucharest.
N,.ar th(. ,.witcr (if tht-jr fr(jMt whk.,
t.xtPnii!! a.rOKS ,n mutUa from the
F-n to the Ianiile. the invaders have
.., ,u rail..,,-,! nMr ,.,... Br
,,llsne(1 Ull.ir , s ..fir 1)(.von(r th
railway line, according to Rerlin.
liefore the rapid advance of the
Germans. Bulgarians and Turks-
j(i ,, jtp t d
Kr,,um,lhe R,lssian!, and Rumanians
a in retreat along the entire front,
m a(.(rilin , to VTngrvi,y are offer-
in stublxirn resistance.
I Aside from Ihc ooertion in TW-
brud.i . another British smash at the
Kranchi which ,hPm mre ,.,
a fllollsan,is vilrds f trenches east
...iiij.'ii 10. t- 111 iiiti .-.online it-mou .ii
of nueudecour; and Ies Boeufs. and
rnrri((1 their frnnt
step nearer the
Rapaume-I'cronne road, is the most
potable incident of the fighting on
b ,,ari(( atI ar,recia.h!e." also is
,.,.,.,,,.,, bv , French m,rthast f
Ml.rv, whi,.h illst ffl ,hn sm,t)l
of th(1 r0Kion whf.rl the Rritish an,,
Ciermans were in contact.
Berlin in touching unon the fight
ing against the British and French
Sunday between If Sars and Ran
court, snys the nttaiks of the entente
a'lies were snnguinarilv repulsed. It
iM admitted in the German official
communication that the Germans
withdrew Sundav night from the
north of Ohaulnes, south of the
Fomme. to a prepared position lyin'
eist of the northern part of the
fTaulnes wood.
111 the Trnnsv lvania front stub
born fitthtin is still in nrogress be
tween the Teutonic allies and the
Rumanians for the mountain passes
and the territory inside Rumania
v. bich has been raptured by the Alls
tro-Germans.
The Russians h.ivine len cleared
from the Narayuvka river region of
Galicia. the Austro-Germans have
! put led a violent attack Mgaint other
.forces of Knv.eror Nicholas north of
Rrodv. near the Yolhynia-Galiria
bo. dcr. The attack was repulsed, ac-
(Continued on Page Two)
crowds heard the candidates at all of
IH
111
1 "
George Clutterbuck, merchant, Epis
copalian A. C. Farb, produce man, a Jew,
who said he did not attend religious
services.
W. G. Tabb, real estate man, Epis
copalian. J. It. Eberelin, paper hanger, Ger
man .Lutheran.
A. J. 1" Vergt, machine shop own
er, Protestant, but not regular church
attendn nt who w.ii.l Hits vcife te.tu :
be I Catholic and his children attended a
parochial school
IL E. Wolf, bookkeeper, a Jek.
Unearth Farther Details
of Blackmail Syndicate
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Oct. 23. Further de
tails of the operations of the alleged
country-w ide , "blackmail syndicate,"
which the authorities assert was con
ducted ln connection with the Mann
white slave act, were disclosed her?
tonight, when charges against James
A. Krown, a restaurant owner of
Brooklyn, arrested Saturday night,
w'ere made public. A formal com
plaint accusing Brown of being a
fugitive from justice from New Jer
sey, alleged that he, Edward Dono
hue nnd William Butler impersonated
government officers at Atlantic City
on September 30, 1915, so, as "to de
fraud a certain person whose name
1
jt mm
WITH
Republican A. P. Leas-d Wire
UKKiX), Texas, Oct. 23. General
Carranza, accompanied by Alvaro
Obregon, minister of war, and a retinue
of administration officials are at Quer
etaro, where over six carloads of war
munitions were taken from Mexico
City, according to information received
from sources heretofore reliable.
This information also is to the effect
that General Bablo Gonzales, who has
been operating in the state of Morelos,
has returned to Mexico City and will
remain there in charge of the city.
No reason is known for the reported
movements.
Manuel Amaya, one of the wealthiest
residents of Mexico, and Nico Foryo
Sembrano, treasurer-general of the de
facto government of Mexico, have left
the capitol for a L'nited States port, ac
cording to a passenger arriving here
from Mexico City today. The name of
the port could not be learned.
Mrs. Venustiano Carranza, her two
daughters, and Mrs. Alvaro Obregon,
who arrived at Nuevo Laredo yester
day from Mexico City, crossed the
border into the l'nited States here to
day. It is understood the party will
remain here several days.
While here, it was stated tonight,
Mrs. Carranza will attend the wedding
of her neice. Miss Guadalupe Salinas
to Samuel C Alexander, a plantation
owner near here. The wedding will
take place Wednesday.
Fixes Exchange Rate
MEXICO . CITY', Oct. 23. General
Carranza tonight issued two decrees
providing that the sectary of the
treasury shall fix the rate of exchange
on paper money. By one of the decrees
the salaries of all employes or work
men must be paid in gold or its equiva
lent in paper at the rate fixed by the
treasury. The other decree provides
that taxes must be paid in gold or in
paper at a rate fixed by the treasury.
It is stated that the decrees will result
in a big increase in wages to all em
ployes and some increase in taxes.
More than a hundred of the most
prominent generals and other leaders
who have been actively associated in
the revolution, many of whom came
from long distances, met today at the
home of General Pablo Gonzales and
formed a protective party, the objects
of which, it is stated, are to unify ail
elements in the constitutionalist party
and support General Carranza fur the
presidency.
The project of the party, which was
made known by General Gonzales, was
enthusiastically accepted by those
Wnt- .-&
Trevino Makes Denial
EL PASO, Texas, Oct. 23. General
Jacinto B. Trevino. commanding the
forces of the Carranza government in
Chihuahua City and the northern zone,
sent an official denial today to General
Francisco Gonzales in Juarez, of the
report that General Carlos Ozuna had
been killed Suring the fighting with
the Villa forces west of Chihuahua Citv.
General Trevino's message stated that
General Ozuna was alive and in good
health.
Carrying Trevino Family
EL PASO, Oct. 23. Passengers out
of Chihuahua City, who arrived in
Juarez about midnight tonight, said
that a special train passed them on
their way here which bore the familv
of General Trevino to Juarez. This
train left Chihuahua later than thev.
but is supposed to have reached the
ni.rthom tnrminnl ni;.. . ;....
j v'" tv.o.nm, rrtiiifi lOlllgUL. .Mine
of the family crossed the international
I border.
According to the passengers. General
Ozuna proceeded against Villa with
three parallel columns, of which he
commanded the center. Nothing is
known in Chihuahua of the flanking
columns, they declared, but the center
one was driven back by Villa with
heavy losses to Fresno, four miles out
side the city.
A number of Germans and other for
eigners were on the train, who said
that the Carranz troops there were re
ported to suffer from a shortage of
ammunition.
The train left Chihuahua this morn
ing. There were twenty siirls beiong-
' 'JHI
(Continued on Page Two)
at the present time Is withheld for
public policy."
Chief Off ley. of the New Y'ork of
fice of the department of justice said
tonight that he had information that
several alleged blackmailers had
"cleaned up" J21.500 In Atlantic City.
Rrown will be arraigned before Unit
ed States Commissioner Houghton
tomorrow. Donohue and Butler arc
held in Tombs prison awaiting trial
on similar charges. Homer T. French,
another member of the alleged "syn
dicate." pleaded guilty today of ex
torting $15,0(10 from Alfred R. West,
a tea and coffee merchant, and was
sentenced to is months in the federal
prison at Atlanta.
s
