'I
. f Today's Metal Prices A lliviU Iw4vwv)v 4 P. M. CIH EDITION I
NEW YORK QUOTATIONS. il I I 1 I F f I fl M I I fl I l I TEN PAGES
t 10.25; copper, S27.5028.00. ,v - T .- ncsday Fair; Warmer In Western
1 ' FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. " i
g I. Forty-sixth Year No. 265. " 1 ! . I H
I : Price ,-lve Cent.. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 24. 1916. Entered aBSecond-C.a. Matter t th. Pn.tnff... ...' 1
1 Teutonic Allies Striking
r Sledge Hammer B lows and
j On both the north and southeastern
5 Rumanian fronts the sledge hammer
blows of tho Teutonic allies are rap
j idly flattening out the Rumanian lines
j and forcing them back.
i In Dobrudja, Field Marshal von
3 Mackensen Inflicted a sever defeat
upon the Russo-Rumanian left flank
driving it to the Tzara-Murat district
l some 16 miles northwest of Con-
j stanza, the Black sea port he captured
day before yesterday.
; In the center tho field marshal also
:j has made notable progress, forcing his
way Into Medjidle and driving the
'i Russians and Rumanians into the
3 hills to the north, while along the
j Danube he has drawn appreciably
;? nearer tho Tchernavoda bridgehead
i by capturing the Danube town of
i Rashova, nine miles southwest of
6 Tchernavoda. He has taken 6,700
3 prisoners, 12 cannon and 52 machine
:5 guns.
Driving home the attack on tho
? north, General von Falkenhayn re-
ports as a result the capture of Pre
deal, 10 miles south of Kronstadt on
I tho Rumanian side of tho border and
i tho collapso of the strong resistance
j tho Rumanians have been offering at
j the southern end at Rothonthurm pass
Ef on the frontier south of Hermann-
" stadt
3 Russo-Rumanlans Holding In North-
; west.
'j On tho northwestern Rumanian
front, the Russo-Rumanian forces ap-
;; parently are holding their own. Bu-
charesL reports them on the offensive
) in the Oituz valley where several
hundred prisoners and 10 machine
i guns were captured from General von
;'( Falkenhayn's troops.
1c Virtually tho entire Constanza-
Tchornavrida railwav lino in nnhnifHo
.) is now in the hands of Field Marshal
;i von Mackensen's victorious forces, It
I appears from a Russian official state
. ment today, admitting the evacuation
:l of Medjidie by the Russians and Ru
ISJJLJaOeAJnland, I from Constanza, the Black sea port
and terminus of the railway, the fall
5 of which to-lho armies of tho central
powers was reported yesterday,
r Medjidie, furthermore, is but little
' more than thirteen and a half miles
; from Tchernavoda, where the Russo
: Rumanian forces are apparently pre
; paring to make a stand at the bridge
head protecting the town. The only
bridge over the Danube between Bel
grade and the sea spans the river at
Tchernavoda carrying the railway lino
running to Bucharest.
The Russo-Rumanian line now runs
along the heights north of Constanza
and Medjidie, according to the Petro
grad announcement, the entente
i forces having fallen back upon these
ridges after evacuating 'the towns.
The Somme front situation was lit
j tie changed over night. London re
ports that the British have fully con
;' solidated the ground gained by them
yesterday in the neighborhood of
Guedecourt and Les Noeufs wliero the
capture of 1,000 yards of German
trenches was reported.
There was no infantry action along
the French lines in the Somme re
gion. The Serbians have made new gains
in their campaign for Monastir, ac
cording to today's Paris report on op
erations in Macedonia, stopping a
German-Bulgarian counter-attack in
the Cerna valley region and then tak
ing tho offensive themselves and cap
turing several trenches.
Berlin describes tho British and
French operations on the Somme
iron., yesterday as another attempt to
break the German lines by the em
ployment of large masses of troops,
and says the effort failed with heavy
i? casualties north of the Somme, rows
of dead being piled up on the field.
Russo-Rumanlans Retreat.
Petrograd, Oct. 24. Via London,
11:17 a. m. The occupation of Con
i stanza and Medjidie in Dobrudja by
forces of tho central powers, is an
nounced in todny's war office report.
Under hostile pressure, says the state
i ment, the Russian and Rumanian
troops retired to the heights north of
K these places.
' No notably important operations
along the Rumanian northeastern
i front are reported in the official an
i nouncement, which follows;
" "Rumanian northeastern front: In
the valley of the river Trotus, the
; enemy remains passive. Along the
Buzen-Dozrana-Klmpolung lino an ar
J tilery duel Is proceeding. Enemy at
zt tacks in the region of Orsova were
I repelled by our fire.
"Dobrudja front:: Under pressure
s of the enemy our troops and the Ru
manians retired to tho heights north
of Constanza and Medlple at the sami
time resisting the enemy's advance.
These two points have been occupied
by the enemy."
Predeal Is Captured.
Berlin, Oct. 2-1. By wireless to
Sayville. German and Austro-Hun'
garian forces after a violent engage'
ment south of Kronstadt, Transyl
vanla, yesterday captured Predeal,
says tho Gorman official statement
Issued today. Six hundred prisoners
were taken.
Medjidie on tho Tcheraavoda-Con
stanza railroad also lias been cap
tured. The army of Field Marshal
,von Mackonsen has taken prlsonei
more than 6,700 Rumanians and Rus
slans.
Tho text of the statement follows:
"Archduke Charles' front: South
of Kronstadt (Brazza) Gorman and
Austro-Hungarlan troops" yesterday
captured Predeal after a violent en
gagement Six hundred prisoners were
brought in.
"At the southern exit of Rothen
thurm pass, the strong Rumanian re
sistance of the last few days was
broken."
Capture of Rashova.
Berlin. Oct. 21. By wireless to Say
ville. Tho capture of the Rumanian
town of Rashova, in Dobrudja on the
Danube below Tchernavoda, was an
nounced today by the war office.
Rumanians Attack.
Bucharest, Oct. 24. Via London,
2:27 p. m. Rumanian troops mado an
attack yesterday along the whole
Oituz front near tho Transylvania
Rumanian border. The war office an.
nounces the capture of 10 machine
guns and several hundred prisoners.
British Steamer Sunk.
London, Oct. 24, 1:58 p. m. The
4200 ton British steamer Midland has
been sunk.
- The MIdIanaT380fcet "long and
built In 1903, was owned in London.
She was reported on a voyage from
Melbourne, Australia, to Los Palmas,
Canaries, during which she sailed
from Capetown on September 17.
Paris, Oct. 24. Noon. French and
German artillery forces were busy last
night south of the Somme, where an
artillery duel raged In tho Biaches-j
Ablaincourt region. There Avas no In- j
fantry action along the French front!
in tho Somme area, tho war office
announced today.
Three German aeroplanes were
brought down In the courso of twenty
aerial combats that occurred yester
day in the Verdun region during a
thick mist.
British Hold Ground.
London, Oct 24, 10:50 a. m. "The
ground pained by us yesterday in tho
neighborhood of Guedecourt and Les ,
Boeufs (on the Somme front) has now
been fully secured," tho war office
announced today.
"During the night there was noth
ing to report except Intermittent Bhell
lng on both sides.
"In answer to the enemy's claim
that the gains of Saturday between
Schwaben redoubt and Le Sars were
won only at the expense of heavy
losses on our part, It may be noted
that the troops engaged, which" took
over 1,000 prisoners, had only about
1,200 casualties."
Severe Defeat of Allies.
Berlin, Oct. 24. By wireless to Say
ville. In an attempt to break through
the German lines on the Somme at
any cost, the British and French yes
terday used great numbers of troops
in repeated attacks, the war office an
nounced today. Their assaults broke
down with heavy losses.
Tho defeat of the allies was so se
vere, tho statement says, that along
tho front the dead are lying in one
row after another. South of the
Somme, a French attack met with
similar results.
Tho announcement follows;
"October 23 was, like tho preced
ing day, characterized by battles of
greatest violence. In order to break
through at any price, the British and
French continued attacks in which
strong forcos were employed.
Suffer 8angulnary Losses.
"In spito of their use of masses of
i troops north of the Somme, they suf
i fered a heavy and sanguinary defeat.
It is reported from the front that rows
. of dead are lying ono upon another,
especially west of TranBloy, Tho con
duct of troops was as splendid as was
i possible. Brandenburg Infantry Rogl
. ment 64, Brunswick Reserve Infantry
Regiment 2, Renish Infantry Regiment
e 29 and Bavarian Infantry Regiments
. One and Fifteen won especial distinc
tion. "South of the Somme the French
prepared an advance in the Ablain-court-Chaulnes
sector but our annlhi-
latlng fire mado development of tho
attack Impossible.
"Army group of the German crown
prince: The enemy attempted to as
, slst the attacks on the Somme by at
. tacks near Verdun. Our positions
i on tho east bank of tho Meuso wero
strongly shelled by artillery. Hostile
infantry was held in its trenches by
our strong and efficient artillery fire.
I Attempts to attack woro thus frus-
trated."
oo
TO RUMANIANS
i
Largest Seaport and Main Line
of Communication With
' Russia Lost.
SITUATION CRITICAL
Encircling Movement Changes
Transylvanian Adventure of
! Rumanians Into
Speedy Defeat.
Berlin, Oct. 24, via wireless to Say
ville. Commenting on the victory of
Field Marshal von Mackensen's nrm
ies in tho Rumanian province of Dob
. Judja,tho .military- critic of .the. Over
seas News Agency writes:
"Tho capture of Constanza by Bul
garian, German and Turkish troops
under command of Field Marshal von
Mackensen, Is the hardest blow Ru
j mania has received during the entire
! campaign. Through it the Rumanians
' have lost their largest seaport, a port
,i noted In international trade for Its
l I shipments of grain and petroleum.
. Simultaneously the Rumanians lost
their main lino of communication
with Russia by way of tho Black sea,
a loss which is bound to have a far
reaching consequence for Rumania in
carrying on her military operations.
Russian Aid Cut Off.
"Russia has been able to send her
ally by way of Constanza, in large
steamers, material and men which
then found their way into interior Ru
mania on tho main railroad lines from
Constanza to Bucharest. Tho marlno
transports are now limited In their
operations to Sulina and tho Danubo
ports whore only vessels of small
tonnage can dock and unload.
"In addition to this general Influ
ence upon Rumanian warfare, how
over, tho loss of Constanza is of de
cisive importance as regards tho mili
tary situation In Dobrudja. Tho rail
road line from Constanza to Tcher
navoda Is already partly in the hands
of the allied Germans, Turks and Bul
garians. East of Murfatlar this line
has already been crossed by the at
tacking armies and von Mackensen's
left wing is approaching Tchernavo
da. For these reasons the section of
the railroad between Murfatlar and
Tchernavoda is also apparently with
out value to the Rumanians. Thus
the quick transport of troops and ar
tillery to especially threatened points
of the Dobrudja front Is rendered im
possible. Excellent Base Lost.
"Furthermore, an excellent base of
operations has been taken from the
Rumanians and Russians.
"The encircling movement by Teu
tonic forces at Hermannstadt chang
ed the Transylvanian advonturo of
the Rumanians into a speedy and
complete defeat. In the same way
tho capture of Constanza and tho in
terruption of railroad communication
for tho Rumanians constitutes a dc
cisivo blow to them in tho Dobrudja
theatre. The advance planned by tho
Rumanians and Russians through
Dobrudja against the Bulgarians and
tho line of communication between
Sofia and Constantinople, has thus
been frustrated."
Minneapolis, Oct. 24. Flour prices
continued to rlso here today. Fancy
patents wore quoted by local millers
at $9.70 a barrel, an Increase of 15
cents over yesterday's prices. First
clears sold at $8.20, an lncrcaso of 30
cents a. barrel.
PANORAMIC VIEW OF SOMME BATTLEFIELD SHOWS SCENE OF UTTER DESOLATION
I
Where once was a beautiful countryside, with tidy homes, green fields and pleasant grove3, there is now to be seen on the Sommo battlefield only
desolation and war's ruin. In the picture may be seen the ruined trunks of trees, all that remains of the vegetation that was not leveled by allied and
German cruns. Here and there a dugout is visible. In the distance the Sommo river is seen, a thin silver thread.
FALL OF FORT
CAIffiMOM
Enthusiasm Aroused by Pro
gress of Entente Alies
Dampened by Teutons.
FRENCH COMMENT
Von Mackensen May Tie Up
Russo-Rumanian Forces on
Narrow Front.
n i
Paris, Oct. 24, 6:29 a. m. The cap
ture of Constanza by tho Teutonic
allies, although not unexpected, never
theless, puts a damper on the enthusi
asm aroused by the continued pro
gress of tho entente allies on the front
in Picardy. French commentators do
not unduly exaggerate tho importance
of the achiovomont of Field Marshal
von Mackensen, whoso action up to
the present time is considered hero
a6 a defensive ono In shortening his
front, so as to hold it bettor, if with
fewer men. They paint, out that tho
only way he could this Is to advance,
since if ho fell back his front would,
on tho contrary, be lengthened Inso
far as ho succeeded. These observ
ers say also that If ho manages to
tie up tho Russo-Rumanian forces in
Dobrudja by holding a narrow front
slightly south of tho railroad, he will
not be slow to employ his troops, thus
released, to act In direct co-relation
with tho Austro-German army operat
ing in Transylvania which, they as
sert, is the essential front from which
alono Bucharest can be attacked with
any chanco of decisive success.
Long before that, It is believed hero,
Rumania with the help of the allies
would bo in a position to turn tho
tables upon its enemios. French crit
ics assert this belief seemingly is
Justified by tho gallant defense tho
Rumanians aro maintaining in tho
passes of tho Carpathians.
AUTO PLUNGES
T10UMDGE
Four Persons Killed, One Body
Recovered Police Dragging
Chicago River.
Chicago, Oct 24. The body of
Hugo Warner, an advertising man
who, with three other persons was
killed laBt night when tho automobile
In which they wero riding plunged
headlong through an open ridge into
tho Chicago river, was recovered
early today by the police. They con
tinued their search for tho bodies of
tho othors by dragging tho rlvor. Two
other occupants of tho car who woro
saved had been fully revived today.
Tho dead persons wore, besides Mr.
Warner, Miss Jennie Klausner, Miss
Lillian Klausner, and Sylvester Ko
sel, social settlement workors.
Driver Falls to See Draw.
The accident occurred at the west
approach of the Twelfth street bridge.
The automobile, Mr. Warner driving,
had reached the brink of the draw
before it was seen tbat tho bridge
was open.
A police boat, grappling for the ma
chine, found it several hours later
somo yards downstream.
An Investigation Into the cause of
tho accident was launched today by
the harbor master's department. A
dredging company began preparations
for raising tho submerged automobile
In the hope of recovering the other
bodies.
oo
FIGHTING NEAR
PIIAL PASS
Germans Keep Up Fearful
Bombardment in Campaign
For Invasion of
Rumania.
INFANTRY SINGS SONGS
Every Trick of Modern War
fare Employed AgainstjLess
Skilled Adversaries.
At tho Head of Predeal Pass, Ru
manian Frontier, with General von
Falkenhayn's Army, October IS. By
Courier to Borlin, via London, OcL 24,
10:25 a. m. In yesterday's battle
around Predeal pass, tho Associated
Press correspondent visited various
German and Hungarian battery posi
tions whoro tho men, undisturbed by
Rumanian fire, kept up a fearful bom
bardment of the opposing positions in
the campaign for tho Invasion of Ru
mania. Tho men went at their work
in almost a holiday spirit, for it is
with a sense of deep relief that the
Germans and Hungarians hero, offi
cers and men alike, have left behind
them tho trench warfaro of other re
gions and thrown themselves into
open field maneuvors against the Ru
manians. It was scarcely bolioveable that
after two years of strenuous life at
the front, Infantrymen should rush to
tho assault with songs, yet it is a
fact, to which tho universal feeling
hero of dealing with a foe, who has
yet to learn every trick of modem
warfaro, contributes much. Though
tho Gorman and Hungarian infantry
men were about to rush into tho fire
of Rumanian rifles and machine guns,
thoy viewed tho situation complacent
ly, saying tho worst of open field work
was preferrablo to trench drudgery.
Ofllcors explained that the change vir
tually would mako tho troops fresh
forces, owing to tho novelty and the
fact that tho central powers' troops
aro best suited for maneuvering be
cause of tholr training along that line.
Open Field Actions.
Tho Predeal battlo Is one of the fow
open field actions witnessed in this
war by correspondents, who wero able
to approach within loss than 3,000
yards of the skirmishing line. At 11
o'clock German artillery opened a des
ultory fire on tho Rumanian trenches
on Susaiul mountain, 5,000 foot high,
which an hour later reached its max
imum fury. Tho llro was then direct
ed mainly against tho trenches somo
500 feet below tho summit For a
quarter of an hour tho Rumanians
stuck to their trenches. Word coming
from the artillery spotters that the
Rumanians thus far seemingly had
not been impressed, tho artillery in
creased Its fire. The Rumanian In
fantry still held on for a time, but
finally broke across the slope like a
swarm of ants as the German and
Hungarian Infantry came in view.
Gorman artillery followed by the flee
ing Rumanians with shrapnel and tho
manner in which tho fire pursued the
Rumanians appeared almost uncanny.
On a ridge leading from Susaiul
mountain, the Rumanians finally
reached their second position. A lull
ensued. A few minutes before 2 p. m.
it was decided to resume operations.
German artillery, ably supported by
somo Hungarian batteries, repeated
the work of the morning and the in
fantry then rushed forward. In a
comparatively short time the objec
tive wns gained.
Germans .Blow. Up Town. 1
The ground being extremely diffi
cult, tho Rumanians endeavored to
forward infantry reinforcements
through the town of Predeal, with the
result that heavy German and Hun
garian guns inside of 15 minutes blew
up half of tho town. The Rumanian
forces were obliged to seek shelter In
tho forest above the town passing
through German infantry fire at long
range.
The Predeal battlo wa not remark-
nhlf for spvorltv nf nrtillflrv flrp or
other action, but groat Interest cen
ters in it because German and Hun
garian infantry, unaccustomed to
cope with tho difficulties of the ter
rain. Rumanians Lack Training.
The Rumanians on the other hand
showed lack of military knowledge.
The efficiency of their troops suffered
much because much of tho artillery
had been taken out of range for fear
of being cut off. Tho Rumanian ar
tillery, therefore, mado an unusually
poor showing. Tho Rumanian infan
try did relatively better, but It was
at tho morcy of the murdorous Ger
man and Hungarian shells.
There was nowhere observable a
tendency to under-rato tho Ruman
ians, but officers of General Falken
hayn's army spoke frankly of their
many handicaps. They said tho Ru
manian general staff had overlooked
some of the mosl important lessons of
tho present war; as for instance the
absence before tho Rumanian posi
tions of barbed wire which is replaced
by shallow pits with pointed stakes.
Worsted by Flank Movements.
Thus far tho Rumanians havo been
worsted each time by flank move
ments and superior opposition by ar
tillery, the significance of which may
be best understood when It Is consid
ered that for a time the Rumanians
constantly had numerical superiority,
in one instance 30 to 1. As nearly all
armies in the present war havo done,
the Rumanian infantry shoots badly,
though an improvement is discernible.
The losses of General Falkenhayn's
army are said So have been light. An
officer of tho general Btaff told the
correspondent that, in the battlo of :
Kronstadt, the losses in dead wero
less than tho number of guns captured
from tho Rumanians, which was 67.
But this was an exceptional case and
occasionally tho Russian infantry
shows up comparatively well.
uu
Sugar.
Now York, Oct. 24. Raw sugar,
firm; centrifugal, 6 .52c; molasses,
5.G4c; refined, firm; fino granulated,
1.507.G0c
Sugar futures woro firmer on cov
ering and renewed demand from
trade sources. At noon prices were
six to nine points higher.
FOREIGN DRAIN I
OF GOLDSUPPLY 1
Member of Federal Reserve H
Board Believes U. S. Can B
Meet All After-War
Demands. fl
Indianapolis, Ind., Oct 24. A. C. I H
Miller of Washington, D. C, a mem- j H
ber of the federal reserve board, dis- ' H
cussing the management of the gold ; H
supply of the country to meet the for- 1 H
eign drain which is expected after the lH
.close of the war, said that In -his :H
opinion the United States will be able H
to meet all demands which may be j
made without any serious difficulties H
or disarrangement of the system in H
vogue. He was speaking before "the i H
annual convention of the Indiana H
State Bankers' association which ! H
opened here today. j H
oo H
TWO MORE PLANES I
FOR CAPT. BOELKE I
Berlin, Oct. 23, 4:15 p. m. Captain
Boelke, the famous German aviator, H
shot down two more aeroplanes yes- jH
terday, bringing up the total to thirty- S
eight, the war otfflco announced to- j
day. Twenty-two allied aeroplanes
were destroyed during the day. The H
announcement follows: H
"In the neighborhood of the coast, H
in the Sommo and In tho Mouse re-
gions there was great aerial activity. H
Twenty-two enemy aviators were shot H
down by aerial attacks and anti-air- H
craft fire. Eleven aeroplanes are ly- t ( H
ing behind our lines. Captain Boelke H
conquered his thirty-seventh and H
thirty-eighth foes, and Lieutenant H
Frankl his fourteenth enemy. ,
"Enemy aviators dropped bombs on JH
Metz and on villages in Lorraine. No
military damage was caused. Fivo I H
civilians died and seven were mado j H
ill through inhaling poisonous gases j H
emitted from bombs." , j JH
nn 1H
DUTCH INDIGNANT. . il
Amsterdam, Oct. 23, via London, H
6:38 p. m. Dutch newspapers are in- ! , JH
nant over the report by tho Handels- ' rH
bladt that on Sunday a Zeppelin drop- ' H
ped a bomb near Gorkum (Gorinch- 4 H
em) twenty-two miles northeast of ' i I
Rotterdam. , H
Tho Nlcuws Vanden Dag says: H
If the German airship's commander H
had not displayed supreme contempt I
for thep rotests of the Dutch govern- H
ment this deplorablo incident, which , H
only by accident lacked serious re- H
suits, would not have occurred." f H
; OH GIRLS, LOOKEE! I
All this week, one 25-ccnt can m H
of Emcha Toilet -Powder with j I
; each ad. placed in Saturday's H
Standard. ' H
Twenty-five words Saturday H
for 25 cents and a box of na- ! H
turo's best toilet powder. Bring !; H
your ads. in any time. Wo will - H
hold them until Saturday. Try H
a can and a Standard Want Ad. H
j BOTH GIVE RESULTS. H
j P "ISRAEL ZANGWELL'S MELTING POT" I II
THE GREATEST AMERICAN DRAMA OF THE TIMES. RESERVE YOUR SEATS NOW. PRICES 50c, 75c, $1.00, $1.50. I 111
FOR TOMORROW NIGHT AT THE ALHAMBRA THEATRE I 'Jl
I h i
