ill 1
"-s1 -Che I o jvi " Vqntbliim . hh I
8 PAGES LOGAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1916 FOURTEENTH YEAR f
COLLEdPDEPT. AT
B. Y. C.f FERS
NEW COURSES
It will be a master of great In
terest to the patrons of tho Brig-1
ham Young College to learn that at
a recent meeting of tho Board of
of Trustees It was decldod to Intro
duce a number of new courses
In 'the- college department. Tho .
Board, together with tho President
and Faculty of the College, have la
bored very strenuously for a numbor
of years to make, a Btrong normal
college and aro gratified with tho re
sults so far achlovod.
Tho graduates from tho first year
of the collego aro permitted to teach
In tho public schools' of Utah with
out examination for one year. Those
who graduate, -frora:tho,,School of
Education, two. year, college, are per
mitted to teach for two years with
out examination, at the dnd of which
time their certificates will be renew
ed ,if successful as teachers, by tho
State Board of Education.
Theso Normal graduates aro the
peer of any Normal school gradu
tes in the State of Utah as to schol
arship and teaching ability. They
are sought regularly each spring and
close of the school year.
The college has grown so rapidly
that the noed of now subjects has
been the call of a great many col
lege students. There" aro many who
come to the institution who deslro
to take the professional subjects such
as Psychology, History of Education,
Principles of Education and Genetic
Psychology but who do not deslro to
take tho Training offered for tho
preparation of tho elementary school
teacher and who heretofore have
not been permitted to graduate with
out such Training. From this timo
on these college students will havo
the nririleco of addlnc to their cour-
t se Economics, Sociology; Chemistry,
Physics and other collego subjects
so that they may graduato from two
years of college with subjects that
will enter them in tho universities
with a junior standing.
With this now legislation thero Is
no question that tho Junior collego
work of tho Institution will grow
with leaps and bounds. It should
take only a fow years until hund
reds of college students will bo tak
ing junior collego work In tho I).
Y. C. having specialized for teaching
yet, at tho samo timo, having had
a broad training such ns will not
handicap them on their onward
march for a degree
Tho peoplo of Logan together with
all this northorn section of tho
coutry should Indeed bo proud of
tho opportunity thoy havo to assist
in making this collego ono of tho
choIcostJormnl and Junior Colleges
lnthojand. jf . ,
YON YONSENSEN
AND POLITICS
Ay just cum to tuno to study
politicks and help In de lection.' Ay
soo the.demokrals Iss trln to lect
Vllcen kaus da say he cept us out
uv var, and Bumburgur kus de dem
okrats had Stato vide prohibition In
dar platform In do days uf old La
goon. Vo ay,donJ take no stock In dls
Vllcen var bl'sness. Ay" notise ve
den nn Denmark is not In vnr an ay
dont link Vllcen rept them out uf
ar. Vllcen ha mado moro fus arid
ha take moro nlllso uv ono English
man kilt in Mexico dan ha doso uf
lots of Merlcans, an ay am fur Mcr
ica furst. f
Becldos by Yimmlny Vllcen ho Is
rong on dls protexion biasness. Ry
hock ho .dont beleavo In his own his
tory for dare ho lss fur protection
and hear ho lss fur free trade. Vy
ay asked ono uf our big murcliants
da oder day'vhy ho wanted high lic
ense fur peddlers and ha say "to
ceep him out o'here so ha can't sell
his guds In koinpetlshun wld us mur
chents," so ny den say "Vel yu must
bo Itopublookln" an ha say. !No, I
Is3 demokrat," an ay den say "0 ay
soo you Iss llko do domokrats uf do
Sudern States, you vants protexion
fur yursolf and free trade fur do
udec feller" un den he say "Oud
Day."
An den Vllcen Iss rong on de vlm
mtn votln. Ho Iss vlllln fur do ne
gro, do chinamen born In dls count
ry, de foreign man, an de Injun to
vote but ho dont want do vlmmln
to voto, an ay tlnk do vlmmln vll
copy his own vords an see dat he
Iss "retired to a very quiet and
private retreat."
An Bamburgur do old lagoon man
ager, by heck It makes mo laf. Do
demokrats try to cloudy de Issue an
say ItepublooklnB object cuz ho Iss
a Yew, but da don't karo bout no
mans rellgun joost so ho lss gud.
Da 'don't vant Bumburgur caus ha Is3
demokrat, an lots peoples dont vant
him on akount uf hiss Lagoon, Llcker
busnlss. Bumburger ha maM too
much money on vlskey at old Lagoon
fur peoples too vant him. Da vant
prohlblshun and Nefl L. Morrlco, yu
jqost so It da dont. An den da dont
llko Bumburgurs rekord on A. C.
Kollego. In da Senate ha voted ev
erytlmo to unlto A. C. vld do Unlvar
city.
By Ooshamlty peoples dont vant
Burgusun caus ha reduso his own
taxes and rnzo his nabcrs, an da dont
llko Facer caus ha lss slippery on da
tax salo blssnlss. Peoples vant dem
both liked caus da trldo to make
Missus Prestun resign von sho vns
locted vld moro votes den doy ver.
By Yimmlny ay lafed von ay red
doy Yournal on diss Missus Prestun
-Komlshunor Blssnlss. Da say all
vas vel at da Court Huse, nn yur
rofureiico vas "pur talst, Indelicacy"
an such llko. By heck vy don'd
da git Missus Prestun tu say so. Ay
heck ay tank Burgusun an Facer
shood bod bo left ta homo.
Yon Yonsonsen.
WHAT ORGANIZED LABOR IN NEW YORK
STATE THOUGHT OF CHARLES EVANS
IHJGHES AFTER HE RESIGNED
THE POSITION OF GOVER
NOR TO GO ON THE
SUPREME BENCH.
The "Legislative Labor News," the recognized
organ of the state federation of labor, published
f by John M. O'Etanlon, Iroy, N. Y., indicated after
the governor's resignation in 1910 how this interest
had .resulted in unusually favorable labor legisla
tion, by commenting under the caption, "He Was
a Great Governor' as follows :
"Now that Governor Hughes has rotlred from politics and
ascondod to n place on tho highest Judicial tribunal In tho world,
tho fact can be acknowlodgod without hurting anybody's political
t corns, that ho was the greatest frlond of labor laws that ever occu
pied tho Governor's chair at Albany. During his two terms ho has
Blgnod flfty-Blx labor laws, Including among them tho best labor
laws over onactod in this or nny other stato. Ho also urged the
onactmont of labor laws In his messages to tho legislature, ovon
Going so far as to placo tho domand for a labor law In ono of his
going as far as to placo tho domand for a labor law In ono of his
messages to an extra session of tho Legislature.
"Only 162 labor laws havo boon enacted In this stato slnco Its
erection In 1777 In 133 yoars, Ono-thlrd of theso, oxcoedlng In
Quality all of thp'rotliors, hnvo boon onactod and signed during Oov-
ornor Hughes' term pf throo yoars and nlno months.
"With such nj rqcord of approval and suggestion of progress
ive legislation In tho Jntorost of humanity (o i credit, It Is easy
to bollovo that human rlgiita will ha,yo a (steadfast and Bympathotlc
upholder In lb!o "now 'Justlco of tho auprdme court of tho United
States." '-L0 . '',' '
M
CHARLES EVANS HUGHES SAYS "WE MUST
HAVE CONTENTED LABOR IN
THIS COUNTRY"
"We have got to have contented labor in this
country, because we are just and fair, with proper
.. . conditions of work and 'reasonable hours of work.
You cannot have efficiency unices the human factors
of production are contented and work with a sense
of justice.
"We shall never win out if we simply array our
selves in the ranks of labor and in the ranks of cap
ital. These are two hands that must work together.
We must co-operate, and we must be efficient. Am
erica first, I say, and America efficient." (From
speech at Denver, Colorado, August 2G, 1916.)
,,,,.---.. ....-.----...-,-.---..--.... . ;
HOW REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTS KEPT
US OUT OF WAR
THE WHOLE WORLD APPLAUDED
Tho unwarranted charge mado by
President Wilson that It tho Repub
lican party is restored to power it
will mean war, is one of the great
est Insults that was over porpet
rated upon tho majority of tho peo
ple of every stato In the Union
North of tho Mason and Dixon lino.
Such a charge Js not only a reflec
tion upon every Republican Pres
ident from tho time of Abraham Lin
coln to William H. Tnft but Is an
Un-Amorcian reflection upon tho en
tire Republican Party, which con
stitutes a majority of tho citizens
of the United States North of tho
line above mentioned.
Republican Presidents have kept
us out of war and maintained the
honor and Integrity of the United
States. Republican Presidents havo
got us Into war and have carried
It .through with credit and honor
to tho United States with less Am
erican soldiers killed aim with less
bloodshed that the present admin
istration has prosecuted Its so-called
Peace Propaganda.
From tho fact tho Ex-President
Theodore Roosevelt, leader of tho
Progressive's Is supporting Governor
Hughes, Democratic speakers nrtf
charging that Govornor Hughes
through tho lnfluenco of Colonel
Roo3ovolt will plunge tho country
Into wnr. Thoy forgot that Roose
velt's Administration shows 100 per
cent perfect for peace. Thoy forgot
.that during his seven and one half
years .In' tho White House not an
Amerlcnn riflo was flrod In war.
Yet, under Roosevelt thero was no
less than seven occasions when a
presidential diplomacy just a shado
less firm, juBt a .word less frlondly,
Just n thought loss wlso, might havo
produced a war.
In our last Issuo wo gavo two
of them. Groat Britain and Ger
many, and wo now proceed with tho
third.
Japan.
Tho third occasion was with Ja
pan. In 1906 California was ablaze
against tho Japanese California
excludod tho Japaneso children from
her common schools. California do
mandotl protection ngalnst Japaneso
coolie Immigration.
But our treaty with Japan guar
anteed theso privileges to tho Jap
aneso. t Thon Roosovolt showed his deep
est skill.
In tho namo of tho treaty with
Japan, ho brought legal suits to re
store tho school status of tho Jap
aneso children. Tho schools were
again opened to them. (Ho had al
so quietly Incroasod tho Federal gar
rison In San Francisco.)
For tho sake of California, ho had
Informal negotlatons with high Jap
aneso officials who, by tho way, pre
ferred to koop their coollos at home.
Theso were "conversations botwoen
gontlomen", unpublished, and thus
tree from misconstruction by tho
public. The Japanese gracofully
agreed not to Issuo passports for tbelr
coolies to como hero.
Japanese rights and prldo were
protected. California protests wero
fully regarded. Japan was led to
play tho parti ot'"noblosso oblige,"
land was, Justly proud of her own
largeness.,of mind.,
;rhe;war,menaco, openlydlacussod
In Japan, molted beforo our public
was awake to It.
' Hnttlo Fleet.
Yet, Just thon lest and foreigners
should fancy wo wero In fear Roose
velt ordered our entire battle-ship
fleet, fully equipped, to sail around
tho world, Incidentally making a
frlondly call on Japan.
No other nation has ever sent Its
full fleet on a " 'round tho world"
crulso. Its physical possibility was
doubted. In tho press and even In
Congress tho order was attacked, and
the threat mado to withhold funds.
But Roosovolt know, and ho per
sisted. Tho fleet, was thon, thanks
to Republican legislation at Its high
est elllclency. Tho world saw. Jap
an saw.
Tho happy ending of tho threat
ening episode was due to Roosutolt's
, fairness of Judgment, to his firmness
'with California, to his adroitness
wlthxJapan and to tho big fleet.
Sim to l)oiiiliiKo-Ciilia-Co!'iiilila.
Besides theso threo major occa
sions, with Great Britain, Germany
(Continued on Pago ElchO
REPUBLICAN
' CANDIDATE FOR
ATTORNEYSHIP
FHfc - iB
M. C. HARRIS
Attorony Melvln C. Harris, Repub
lican candidate for County Attorney.
Is tho son of C. Z. Harris of Rich
mond. Ho Is a real lawyor, having
graduated from tho Unlvoralty of
Chicago Law School In 1310. Slnco
that timo ho has -practiced law In
Cacho county, and Is now a member
of tho law firm of Wallers and Har
ris. Ho is no experiment and. his
party Is not askin; the votors of
tho county to try him out. On tho
other hand ho has boon tried and Is
a lawyer of ability and cxperolnce,
Just such a defender ami adviser as
tho county noods. Ho Is young, ag
gressive, capablo, promising and ab
ovo all experienced, nnd when olect
od wfll servo tho oounty with dignity
and crt-dlt. A voto for htm la a vote
for a youn.t man who has mado good
at tho law through porserverance and
the work of hlaown hands' ahd'braln.
M. I. A. TO
GIVE CONCERT
Tho peoplo of Logan aro promised
a musical treat noxt Friday evening
In tho Logan Tabernacle when a
grand concert will bo given under
tho auspices of tho Mutual Boards
of tho Cacho Stako. Tho concort
this year will bo ono of tho best
over given by tho Mutual boards ac
cording to those In charge. Pro
fessor Lorenzo Saronl, supervisor of
music In tho county schools has bcon
working hard for tho past fow weeks
In bringing tho mutuals chorus to Its
present standard nnd ho assures us
that no other chorus In tho stato
has tho possibilities our chorus has.
Professor Sardonl Is a musician
of merit, well known In tho stato
and wherever ho has taken part In
any musical function ho has always
proved to bo a success and ns a
violinist was proved to tho public
a fow weeks ago to his ability and
talent.
Miss Evangellno Thomas, contralto
soloist, needs no Introduction to tho
public of Logan nnd Cacho Stako
as sho appeared hero a fow months
ago In Faust and with tho Emma
Lucy Gates Co.
Claronco J. Hawkins Is another
noted Utnh 'Artist who will favor
us wlti a numebr of selections on
tho'clarlnot and ho has appeared In
concert all over the country and Is
a muBtcjan of great ability and
comes to us highly recommended.
Tho Mutual Boards of this stako
extends a cordial Invitation to tho
peoplo of this stnko as tho pro
ceeds from this concert aro to bo
used In working out tho problems
that aro coming beforo U3 every
day.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN, said "Tench
ECONOMY; that Is olio (if the
first virtues. It begin vrlth sav
ing jiiouey." Stnrt tins practice
by attending tho big ECONOMY
Salo of Sweaters, Mackinaw's,
Flannel Shirts, Uuderweur, Blanket.-.,
etc., commencing Monday,
October t!it, nt tho Economy Hup
)y Co., N. Main Street, Logan,
Utah. Adv. 10-21
Advertised Letters
Logan, Utah, Oct. 21, 191C.
Day, Parley
Hudson, W. M.
Liljenqulst, W. L.
Poterson, Josephlno
Parry, John
Futzler, Robert
Smith, L. C.
J. M. BLAIR, V
Postmaster.
Henry Biggs, ono of Franklin's
prominent citizens Is spending con
siderable timo In Logan. A popular
Logan dentist Is responsible for tho
frequent visits.
MEN WANTED.
Men wanted at tho Lcwlston Sugar
factory. Adv. tf
CRITICISM
DECENT AND
INDECENT ,
;
There are two kinds of criticism, I M
Just and unjust, decent and lndo- )
cent. Men nnd women sometimes I H
resort to both. Ono Is obnoxious , H
and should bo condemned, the other J iH
Is right and should bo encouraged. ! ' H
Wo sometimes meet striking exam- ' , 'H
pies of both especially 'during pol- j H
ltlcal campaigns, and tho strong per- ) IH
sonnllty of Senntor Smoot, nnd his ; M
recont visit to our fair ctty,has bon Vl
productive of both. For fnstnnco: 'H
Hon. William H. King recently vis- ! H
lted Logan nnd whllo in conversa- 1 b
tlon with ono of our citizens mado H
roforonces to Senator Smoot, and
during tho conversation said that
while ho did not for a moment :
agrco with Senntor Smoot, nnd could iM
not condono his Ideas on tho poltt- M
leal questions of tho day, yet tho J
Senator was a big man, and one that 1 j H
oven his political onemlcs could not I jH
help but ndmlro. On tho other , i
hand one of tho gontlomon running ril
on tho democratic county ttckot, at- JH
ter attending tho Smoot meeting vfl
poured forth his venom In such gl
a way that It would break tho maou- fll
Ino In any printing olllco to print lll
his vllo words. Wo withhold hla lll
namo although wo have It safely on ''JlH
jl
Again tho secretary of tho larg- i tl
est Commorclal club In Logan City '' jH
attended tho meeting, -aud.,buBlod f'fl
himself the next 'day circulating tho I JH
reasons why ho and his associates H
wero forced to got up nndloavo the M:l
meeting whllo tho Senator was 'talk- J
Ing. Wo will withhold his words I H
also, but wo havo thorn safely filed jH
Judge King's criticism was just j
and decent, that of the other gen- j
tlomau waB unjust and Indecent'. jH
Card of Thanks 'H
Tho undersigned deslro to express H
their deep and sincere appreciation
to tho many dear frlonds who so 1
klndyl assisted In every posstblo way I IH
durlng(tholr borcavemno in the loss hl
of tholr loving daughter and wife ! tl
pin', particularly to Plshop MerkoUiy ll
and counsellors. fl
R. W. JONES 'lH
MRS. IRENE TARBF.T ' I HH
AND FAMILY. ' IH
SH
UtCO.itiH WASHINGTON, said illl
"ECONOMY makes happy homes i9
nuil sound nations; instill it deep." 'Il
Wo can help jnii to eeonoinl.o if i jJH
jnu will attend our ECONOMY . H
Salo of lino Sweaters, Mackinaw's, 1'SI
I'lannel Shirts, Union Suits, Itlnu- ')i-l
kets, etc., commencing: Monday, j ?
October -.'I, at tho Economy Sup- il
Ily Co., Kit N Main Street, Lognn, Ml
Utah. Adv. 10-21. 4H
Is Woodrow Wilson ill
A Friend of Labor ?
At a dinner in the Waldorf-Astoria on March 18, I H
1907, Dr. Woodrow Wilson spoke as follows: fljH
"We speak too exclusively of the capitalistic jH
class. There is another as formidable an enemy to ' il
equality and freedom of opportunity as it is, and ' M
that is the class formed by the labor organizations H
and leaders of the country." y H
Extract from a baccalaureate sermon of June H
13, 1909, by Prof. Woodrow Wilson:
You know what the usual standard of the iH
employe is in our day. It is to give as little as he ' ' iH
may for his wages. Labor is standardized by the i H
trade union, and this is tho standard to which it is H
meant to conform. No one is suffered to do more i H
than the average workman can do. In some trades H
and handicrafts no one is suffered to do more than 1H
the least skillful of his fellows can do within the S
hours alloted to a day's labor, and no one can work IB
out of hours at all or volunteer anything beyond j H
the minimum. H
"I need not point out how economically disas- IB
trous such a regulation of labor is. The labor of 1H
America is rapidly becoming unprofitabe Under is 1
present regulatipn by thpse who have determined H
to reduce it to a minimum. Our economic supreijji- H
acy may be lost, because the country grows more H
and more full of unprofitabe servants." '" " jH
