THE BARBIE DAILY
TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 188.
BARRE, VKRMOXT, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1910.
PRICE, OXE CEXT.
LITTLE BOOTY
WAS SECURED
IN CONSTANZA
Because Russia and Ruma
nia Had Decided Upon the
Evacuation of the Seaport
Town, According to Ad
vices Received from Bu
charest
ENTENTE ALLIES WENT
TO HEIGHTS TO NORTH
Petrograd Official State
ment Admits Also the Fall
of Medjidie in Dobrudja,
Saying Defenders Were
Forced to Retire "Under
Hostile Pressure"
Virtually the entire Conslanza-Teher-navoda
railway line in Dobrudja is now
in the hands of Field Marshal Von Mack
ensen's victorious forces, it appears from
the Russian official statement, admitting
the evacuation of Mejidie, approximately
HO miles inland from Constanza, the fall
of which wa-s reported yesterday. Meji
die, furthermore, is a little more than
13 miles from Tchernavoda, where
Russo-Rumauian forces are apparently
preparing to make a stand at the bridge
head, protecting the town. This is the
only bridge over the Danube between
Belgrade and the sea which spans the
river at Tchernavoda, carrying a railway
line running into Bucharest. The Russo
F.unianian line now runs along the
heights north of Constanza and Mejidie,
according to Petrograd, the entente
forces having fallen back upon these
ridges after evacuating the towns.
another." South of the Somme the
French attack met with similar results.
(ierinan and Aiistro-llungarian forces,
after a violent engagement south of
Kronstadt, Transylvania, yesterday, cap
tured I'redeal, the statement says. Six
hundred prisoners were taken.
The capture of the Rumanian town of
Kashova in Dobrudja, on the Danube be
low Tchernavoda, was ulso announced.
Mejidie wag ahio captured. The army of
Field Marshal Von Mackensen took as
prisoners more than tt,700 Rumanians
and Russians,
NORTHFIELD HOTEL
DESTROYED; ONE
WOMAN LOST LIFE
BRITISH AIR VICTORY.
One Aeroplane Destroyed a German Ma
chine and Chased Three Others.
Ivondon, Oct. 24. A British naval aero
plane yesterday attacked four Herman
aeroplanes over the Belgian coast, de
stroying one and chasing the others, ae-
eording to tho admiralty announcement
to-day.
U-53 SUBMARINE
REPORTED SUNK
BY CANADIAN BOAT
Captain of British Steamer Arriving at
Boston Tells of Persistent Rumors
in Nova Scotia.
Roston, Oct. 24.--Captain Tudor of the
British steamer Hochelaga, which ar
rived to-day from Louisburg, stated that
before he left Nova Scotia persistent ru
mors were afloat that the German sub
marine U-53 was sunk off Sydney by the
Canadian patrol boat Stanley.
"Before I left Iiuisburg I was told
by shipping men that I need not worry
about the submarine,' said Captain Tu
dor. "This man said the U-boat does not
bother any more British vessels because
it was sunk by the Stanley."
Mrs. Emma' Benjamin, a Roomer in the
Building, Was Unable to Get Out,
And Her Body Was Found on First
Floor, Having Fallen From Third
MANY RESCUES MADE
IN THRILLING MANNER
MORE CASES FOUND.
A PITCHED BATTLE.
With
Seven Casualties When
Tried to Make Arrest.
Sheriff
! London. Oct. 24. According to reports
from Bucharest, received at Rome and
relayed by wireless, the forces of the
rentral powers took little booty at Con
stanza, as the evacuation of the Do
brudja seaport had been decided upon
some time ago.
Emperor William, the advices add, lias
Bent congratulations to King Ferdinand
of Bulgaria on the capture of Constanza.
Petrograd, via Iondon, Oct. 24. The
occupation of Constanza and Medjidie in
Dobrudja by the forces of the central
powers was announced in to-day's war
office report. "Under hostile pressure,
says the statement, "the Russian and
Rumanian troops retired to the heights
hfrf!f of these places."
' On the Russian and Galician front
there were no e-vents of importance, the
announcement says. On the Caucasian
front north of Dizy and southeast of
Lake Van. our detachments disposed of a
horde of Kurds, capturing various kinds
Df provisions and more than 400 head of
cattle.
SERBIANS SCORE
AGAIN IN THE
CERNA REGION
After Counter-Attacks by Germans and
Bulgarians, They Advanced and
Captured Several Trenches.
Paris, Oct. 24. French and German ar
tillery forces were Dusy last night south
of the Somme, where artillery duels
raged in the Biaehes-Alaincourt region,
There was no infantry action along the
J rench front in the Somme area, the war
uffice announced to-day.
Three German aeroplanes were brought
down in the course of 20 aerial combats
In the Verdun region yesterday, during a
thick mist.
Serbian troops operating m the Cerna
region on the Macedonian front have won
new success, according to to-day s an
nouncement hy the war otlice. A coun
ter-attack launched bv German and Bul
garian troops was stopped by Serbian
nrtillerv. The Serbians then attacked
the opposing lines and captured several
trenches. On the Struma front there is
Inactivity, the river flood interfering with
the movement of the troops.
Whitcstone, X. V., Oct. 24. Paul Stier,
sheriff of Queens county, was shot and
killed and four policemen and a deputy
sheriff wounded late yesterday by Fronk
Taff, a squatter near here, before Talf
eventually was shot dead by Police Ser
geant James Fitzgerald after a siege of
an hour anil a half in which policemen, i
deputy sheriffs and bluejackets from the
United States torpedo boat at Henley
tried to capture Taff.
Sheriff Stier, accompanied by a deputy
and a policeman, went to Taff's shanty
situated in a gtrip of woods to arrest
him on an order by Supreme Court Jus
tice Van Sicklen for contempt of court.
When the officers informed Taff of their
mission he picked up a shotgun and fired
at them. The sheriff dropped to the floor
mortally wounded. Mrs. Taff, who had
admitted the sheriff, fled from the shanty
and Taff ran t the roof armed with a
rifle and a liberal supply of ammunition.
Police reinforcements soon arrived and
the shanty was surrounded. Taff could
be seen distinctly on the roof smoking
his pipe with his rifle poised for action.
He tired several shots which were re
turned by the police and deputy sheriff's.
After five men had been wounded by ths
squatter, Sergeant Fitzgerald obtained
an automatic rifle from the torpedo boat
and approaching the house ordered Taff
to surrender.
Taff fired at Fitzgerald and the latter,
a former United States soldier, returned
the fire. Taft fell dead on the roof of
the shanty.
The police said last night that Taff
probably had been mentally unbalanced,
due to his failure to perfect the inven
tion of a "fin" propellor for motor boats.
He wasted his money, it was said, in fu
tile efforts to have the propeller placed
on the market.
A judgment for .$0O had been obtained
against Taff. This was followed by a
court order to show cause in supple
mentary proceedings. He was fined $250
for failing to appear and his non-ap
pearance in court again to pay the tine
led to issuance of the writ which caused
the tragedies yesterday.
Judkins and Huntley Blocks Aso Suf
fered, Together With Their Tenants
Northfield Firemen, After Great Effort,
Stopped Fire in Upper Storyj of the
Latter i
Northfield, Oct. 24. One life was lost and monetaity' damage of
$25,000 was done this morning by a fire which swept through the
Northfield house, a four-story wooden structure, and damaged the
upper part of the Judkins-Huntley building just adjoining. That
the entire east side of the village square was not wiped out was
due to the heroic efforts of the Northfield fire department, which
worked from 3 o'clock until 9 before the fire was checked
About a score of persons were in the
hotel building and there were many
thrilling rescues as the firemen climbed
to the windows and brought imprisoned
people to the ground; and several were
more or less seriously hurt in reaching
safety.
The Dead:
MRS. EMMA CIjOUGH BEX J A MIX of
Xorthtield.
Discovery of the Fire.
The fire was discovered at 3 o'clock by
James A. McMann, a clothing dealer here
who resides in the hotel. His room was
on the third floor. He was awakened by
the crackling of flames and on looking
furnishings. The hotel employes were
quartered on the fourth floor, and they,
too. lost all their belongings.
The lower floor front was occupied by
the hotel office and the parlors of Mrs.
n. s. Humphrey, optician. She carried
no insurance and most of her goods were
taken out into the street. In the base
ment front of the hotel wag the barber
shop of William O. Robinson, whose chief
damage was by water.
How the Flames Progressed
After the top floors of the hotel fell in
the flames communicated to the three
story brick block just adjoining, one-half
of which is owned by Dr. J. H. Judkins
and the other bv the Hnntlev family.
out of the window he found that part of The swept the rear of the Judkins
the building which was used as a dining ' Parl- wiping our. me otnees ot nr. .lu.l-
room and kitchen to be'a mass of flames. ! kins and Dr. If. A. Whitney. The third
He hastily gathered some of his clothing ' ""nor of the Judkins sectio.i was occupied
and then' rushed downstairs, giving tho , hy ('. M. Goodrich, dealer in electrical
alarm as he went. The fire alarm was , supplies, w ho had between $500 and $00
soon rung in and the department re
sponded promptly.
By that time the rear of the hotel was
a roaring furnace, and the firemen laid
2,1011 feet of hose and used eight streams
of water during the strenuous fight
His
RUMANIANS ATTACKED.
Captured Ten Machine Guns and Many
Prisoners.
Bucharest, via Tendon, Oct. 24. Ru
manian troops made an attack yesterday
along the whole Oitus front near the
Transylvania-Rumanian border. The war
nflice announced the capture of ten ma
chine gun and several hundred prisoners.
ROW AFTER ROW
OF DEAD SOLDIERS
STEEL JUMPS 40 POINTS.
Seen After Desperate Efforts of French
and Germans to Break Through
the German Lines on the
Somme.
Berlin, by wireless. Oct. 24. In an at
tempt to break through the German lines
on the Somme front at any cost, the
British and French yesterday used great
numbers of troops in repeated attacks,
the war office announced to-day. The
assault broke down with heavy losses.
"The defeat of the allies was so severe,"
the etatement mts, "that all alone the
front the dead are Ifiryf in oue row after vious record by 23 points.
DIED OF NATURAL CAUSES!
Found by Autopsy on Body of Benjamin
F. Dwinnell.
Bellows Falls, Oct. 24. Medical Ex
aminer Dunsmore of Keene, X. H., came
here yesterday and following an autopsy
on the body of Benjamin Franklin Dwin
nell, said he died of natural causes. The
body was found Sunday afternoon at the
foot of Mt. Kilburn in Xorth Walpole,
X. H.
Dwinnell wa born in Westminster M
years ago. He leaves his mother, Mrs.
Lucy Dwinnell of Walpole, X'. H., and
three sons, Frank H. of Xcw York City,
Carlos of South Acworth, X. H., and
Fred Dwinnell of Rockingham.
worth of goods, insured for $500.
part, wns burned.
Just -below the. Goodrich apartment
was the office of the X'orthfield Telephone
Co., and there the damage chiefly was
by water. The telephone service had to
against the great odds. The fire, as al- suspended for some hours and during
ready stated, had made a big start, and tn rl.v forenoon, Mrs. C. M. Goodrich,
the nature of the hotel construction made i w,1 w"s acting as operator, had to sit
the building highly inflammable. Thehnpa,h a canopy to prevent the water
fire spread throueh the entire structure fro drowning her out. Her husband is
GRADING OF MILK.
Is Only Satisfactory on Bacteriological
Analysis.
Cincinnati, O., Oct. 24. Bacteriologi
cal analysis was defended as the onlv
satisfactory basis for the grading of
milk, in an address before the laboratory
section of the American Public Health
assocaition to-day by H. W. Conn, direc
tor of the laboratories of the Connecticut
staae board of health. Mr. Conn took
up the various objections made by labo
ratory men, purchasers and dealers and
gave an answer to each one by quoting
the results of an extensive investigation
of the subject which he had made in
Connecticut.
BRITISH STEAMSHIP SUNK.
Forty-Two Hundred Ton Midland Was
Destroyed.
London, Oct. 24. The 4.200-ton British
steamship Midland has been sunk.
The Midland was last reported Sept. 17
at Cape Town, in the course of a voyage
from Melbourne lor the Canaries.
Stock Makes New High Record Selling
Price in Wall Street To-day.
Xew York, Oct. 24. Bethlehem Steel
rose 40 points to a new high record of
most rapidly
Clung to Window Sill By Fingers.
While some of the firemen were direct
ing the streams of water, others put
ladders against the building to rescue
those who were imprisoned within.
Several who had been unable to
mnke their way down the staircase were
carried down the ladders, not having
time either to save any of their prop
erty. Cora Henry, who was an employe
of the hotel, was overcome by the smoke
and was carried from her room in tho
fourth story. Lawrence Burns, who lived
in the hotel, had a most trying experi
ence as he was forced to hang by his
fingers from the window sill of his room
on the tourtn lloor while the nremen
were hoisting a ladder. In addition, his
torture was accentuated by the fact that
the window had slid down tnd was rest
ing on his fingers as he clung desperately
to the small board. Mr. Burns is a
heavily built man, weighing in the vicin- (
itv ot 'S.W pounds.
George S. Bennett, who" was occupying
a room with Sergeant B. E. McMath, in
structor of the Vermont Xational Guard,
hurt one heel severely as he made his
way down a fire escape. Others were
more or less bruised in getting out.
Mrs. Benjamin's Body Badly Burned.
It was not until daylight came that
the body of Mrs. Benjamin was found.
She was 70 years of age. Her home
was in X'orthfield. but she had been liv
ing in the hotel for the past six months.
Her room was on the third floor, and the
body was discovered on the first floor,
having fallen with the ruins of the upper
part of the structure. The remains were
badlv burned, especially about the head
and shoulders.
Those Who Were Saved.
The guests of the hotel from out of
town, as taken from the register to-day,
were: F. A. Cleveland of Ilemingsford.
la.. Mr. and Mrs. Ci A. Cleveland of.
Ormstown, la., (the party being in this
trcmity with a purpose of buying a
tarml: Frank Colvin of Pawlet. (.. r..
Putnam of Boston. G. Blake of Fitch
burn." Mass.. and C. E. Kempter of
Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Xearly all lost most
of their clothing and effects. Mr. Blake,
when seen this morning, told of getting
out with his coat, vest, overcoat, pajam
as and trousers but had to leave his or
der sheets and $25 in money.
Local people who were stopping in the
hotel were Ijiwrenee Burns, dames A.
McMann. W. ,T. Koberts, manager of the
Atlantic Pacific Tea rompany. Charles
Pate. P. A. Rogers. L. Bissean. Sergeant
B. E. McMath and George S. Bennett.
Two other regulars in the hotel, Charles
Morehouse and Kay Bellows, were out of
town, the former being in Barre and the
latter in St. Albans. While all suffered
losses of their clothing. Mr. McMann lost
most of all the boarders because he had
to part with 7." in money, two watches.
to25 in the course of the first half hour
trading to-day. This exceed its pre- $15o in wearing apparel and the furni
ture in his room, he having nsed his own
the manager of the telephone company.
The first floor of the Judkins block wa-s
occupied by Xed C. Ray 4, Co., as a drug
store. The damage there is confined to
water.
The progresg of the fire was practically
stopped in the Judkins section although
there was some damage to the upper
part of the Huntley building. The first
floor in the latter structure was occupied
by the E. Huntley Co., dealers in sta
tionery, toys, jewelry, etc., while Mrs.
Nellie Smith occupied the second fltior
and the third was not used. It was on
the third floor that the progress of the
flames was finally stayed; but water did
considerable damage in the building. The
next building was the X'orthfield Savings
bank structure, in which were also the
offices of Plumley A, Plnmley. This
building was not. damagc-d. Mrs. Smith's
goods on the second floor of the Huntley
section were damaged considerably.
Davlight brought a sorrv spectacle to
the eyes of the p?ople of Xorthtield and
the adjoining towns, who had been at
tracted by the news of the great fire.
The hotel structure was a hopeless ruin,
although the front reared its stark frame
as if in effort to hide the confusion and
ruin in the rear. The fronts of the Jud
kins and Huntley sections bore little evi
dence of the damage but the rear part
of the Judkins block was gashed by the
hand of the t;ery element. All the
blocks joined and it was splendid work !
on the part ofthe firemen that the whole
east tront ot the square was not de
stroyed. The Hotel Owned By St. Johnsbury Man.
The hotel was owned by Ernest M. Fi
field of St. Johnsbury. who bought the
property Sept. 25, 1!15, from Fred K.
Sawyer. Mr. Fitield was not in town at
the time of the fire, the hotel being oper
ated for him by Archie B. Dow.
Besides Mr. Dow, there were five em
ployes in the building at the time, they
being Mr. and Mrs. I. A. Sawyer, Cora
Henry, Edgar Swan and Horace Bliss.
Two others. Maude Sexton and Alice
Marselles, had rooms outside. The hotel
was built 40 years ago.
The Insurance.
The following insurance was carried:
On hotel building fl3.4O0
On hotel furniture 4.000
Two of Poliomyelitis Were Located
in Burlington Yesterday.
Burlington, Oct. 24. Two new cases of
poliomyelitis were found in this city
by Health Officer Dr. F. J. Ennis yester
day, making In all three cases in Burling
ton. It is also thought by local health
officials that there has been another
case in the city, which waa discovered
yesterday in the family where a child is
now ill with the disease.
H. James Bray, truant officer, while
looking up truants in the north part of
the city yesterday morning, came upon a
child playing upon the street whom he
thought should be in school. He went
into the house where she lived at 88 First
street to inquire why she was not in
school and met tho mother, Mrs. Meddie
Dubricl. Mrs. Dubriel explained that her
children were not in school because they
were ill. She has three daughters, aged
ten and six years and one 27 months. She
told the truant officer that thev had been
ill and that she had not ascertained what
was the trouble with them. A physician
had been called. She also stated that the
baby lost the use of her limbs and
showed the child to Mr. Bray. Mr. Bray,
suspecting poliomyelitis, told the woman
to keep her children indoors and com
municated with the health officer, who,
after visiting the children, diagnosed the
disease as poliomyelitis. It is also
thought that one of the girls has had
the disease. Mr. and Mrs. Dubriel and
their children moved to this city from
Brighnm hill, which is about six miles
from Essex, about two weeks ago, and
it is very probable that infection was had
at Essex, where there has been a case of
infantile paralysis.
The other case reported yesterday is
that of Marguerita E. Skelley, the three-year-old
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. M.
Skelley of 384 St. Paul street. This
case was reported by Dr. O. X. Eastman,
who was called yesterday morning after
the child had been ailing a few days.
There is paralysis in the right leg and
Dr. Eastman's diagnosis was confirmed
by the diagnosis of Dr. Ennis, who also
visited this case. This family lives in a
block at the corner of Marble avenue on
St. Paul street and there is another child
in the family, a bov, aged six years. The
Skelleys moved to this city recently from
Alburg.
All of the cases found so far have been
those of children who have recently come
to Burlington with the exception of the
Webster child, whom the authorities feel
certain was infected during the recent
teachers convention in this city. Xo con
nection between the three cases, which
have appeared in three separate places in
the city, can be traced.
WATERBURY YOUTH
WAS RUN OVER
Harold Woodward, Aged 15, Was Struck
By Car Driven By Harry Patch
of Barre Yesterday After
noon. ?aterbury, Oct. 24. Harold Wood
ward, aged 15 years, the noil of Mr. and
Mrs. Warner Woodward, was struck by
an automobile driven by Harry Patch of
BBrre and run over by one wheel of the
vehicle on the road between this village
and the Center yesterday afternoon. Xo
bones were broken and although the boy
is a) lame that he cannot turn over in
bed it is thought that he will recover.
The boy was returning home from
school and jumped from a team to take
aide road at the old tannery bridge
when the Patch car came along. The
machine was running slowly and no
blame is attached to the driver. The
bov started across the road and was
struck bv the car and thrown under a
forward wheel. Ho was hauled out from
between the wheels and carried by Mr.
Patch to the Woodward home, where his
injuries were attended bv Dr. G. S. Bid
well. Dr. Bidwell states that he could find
no broken bones and he is in hopes that
the boy will get along without any se
rious consequences.
CHILD FATALLY
HURT BY AUTO
Cecelia Skerritt, Aged Four
Years, Was Struck' by
A. W. Badger's Car
RIVIAT BANNISTER.
Barre Man and Williamstown Woman
Married To-day.
William J. Riviat of this city and
Florence M. Bannister of Williamstown
were married at St. Monica's church
this morning by Rev. P. M. McKenna, in
the presence of immediate relatives and
friends. They were attended by Mr.
and Mrs. Edward Burke, friends of the
bride and groom. There was a large
gathering of friends at the ceremony
and the young couple received the hearti
est of congratulations for their future
DIED SEVERAL F RS
AFTER AC JENT
Witnesses Say it the Au
tomobile 's a Going
Slowly
Cecelia Skerritt, youngest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. William Skerritt of 8 Far
well street, died this morning a few
minutes past midnight from internal in
juries received when an automobile owned
and operated by A. XV. Badger ran over
her yesterday afternoon. The child was
four years and seven months old. The
accident occurred around 5 o'clock near
the bridge that connects Brook street
with Maple avenue. Mr. Badger stopped
his car immediately and took the child
to her home, where' Dr. XV. E. Lazell was
called. Although the little girl was bad
ly unused about the thighs and stomach,
the physician's examination did not dis
close any lone fractures. Indications of
internal injuries, if there were anv, could
not be diagnosed at once.
The child seemed to brighten consid
erably after she was removed to the
house and the fear of internal injuries
was dissipated for a time. Later in
the evening she began to have chills and
toward midnight she sank rapidly.
Accompanying the driver in the auto-
monue was .ur.s. jauger, who wan ner
The bride wore a traveling suit of "'isoana was proceea.ng to me nome or
bine, trimmed with for with bat. to Ir,rml ""'K1111
AVIATOR DROWNED
AFTER 100-FOOT FALL
Alexander Brown, Widely Known Polo
Player, Landed in Delaware River
After Starting on Last Flight
to Secure License.
Philadelphia,' r Oct. 24. Alexander
Brown, a widely known polo player, fell
with an aeroplane into the Delaware riv
er at Essington, below this city, to day
and was drowned.
nrown was malting his last flight in a
test for a license. He was about 100
feet up when the watchers noticed that
something was wrong. A moment later
the machine dropped into the river.
match. The matron of honor was also
attired in a blue suit, with white hat.
Mr. and Mrs. Riviat left immediately
for Michigan and upon their return will
reside at 20 Church street, Barre. They
received many beautiful gifts, including
linen, cut glass and silver.
The groom is the son of Jule Riviat of
Weybridge and has spent most of his life
in Barre, where he is employed as engi
neer on the M. A W. R. R." The bride
is a daughter of Orrin Bannister of Wil
liamstown and has been employed in
Barre for the last two years.
Among those from out of town to at
tend the wedding were: Mrs. Charles
Reagan, Mrs. Frank Chandler, Miss Liz
zie Prescott of Montpelier;; Orrin Ban
nister and Mrs. Lee Whitney of Wil
liamstowiii Mr. and Mrs. Dennie Riviat
of Middlebury and Jule Riviat of Weybridge.
THORNTON BOUND OVER.
INTERESTING INSTALLATION
Total on hotel
Judkins building
Judkins furniture
Xed C. Kay A Co. stock
E. Huntley Co. block ...
Mrs. Xelli'e Smith
C. M. Goodrich Co
Grand total
17.4oo
j-4.500
1 .000
5.!KN1
3,200
TOO
Was Conducted by Harmon Review Last
Evening.
The installation of officers in Harmon
review, No. 1. XV. B. A. O. T. M.. was
held last evening in Knights of Pythias'
hall, it being one of the largest and most
successful meetings held by the local
lodge in a long-time. All members were
allowed to invite one person outside of
the lodge, while members of various
lodges about the state were in attend
ance, among them being the Montpelier
commander and a large number of the
members of Capital review, Xo. 8; Com
mander Ella Hodges of Burlington re
view, Xo. B. with a good delegation of
the members of that lodge, attended
the ceremonies.
The officers installed were as follows:
Commander, Eliza Carroll; lieutenant
commander, Florence Veale;-T. C, Xellie
S. Boben; record keeper, Violet Scott;
chaplain, Lillian Kearney; finance audi
tor, Mae Allen; seargent. Ella LaBell;
lady-at-arms, Alice V. Beckley; sentinel,
Delia Fulsom; picket, Jane Ross; cap
tain of the guards, Gladys Perkins; color
bearers, Susan Carroll. Elizabeth BrocK;
installing officer, Eva J. Perkins was as
sisted bv l-ady of Ceremonies Margaret
Carroll, Chaplain Coral M. Wilkinson and
Musician Ida Russell.
After the installation of the officers a
program was given by the ladies of the
review, which consisted of a few choice
selections. The opening number was a
piano duet, by Ethel I.unn and Beatrice
Moore and was followed by a vocal solo
by Mrs. (.race Cutler, a reading by Miss
Edith Watson, whistling solo. Miss Alice
V. Beckley, vocal solo, Miss Katherine
Young, and the final was a duct by Bea
trice Papin and Rachael Cutler. After
the ceremonies and program were com
pleted the ladies formed a line which was
Grantham, N. H., Man Arrested in Barre
on Robbery Charge.
Court findings in the case of State vs.
Wilbur Thornton of Grantham, X. H.,
charged with assault and robbery on the
person of John Collett in Depot square
Friday night, were for holding the re
spondent for county court at a hearing
before Magistrate H. W. Scott last even
ing. J. Wan! Carver, counsel assigned
by the state, appeared for Thornton, and
when the state rested, after introducing
the testimony of Collett and Deputy
Chief Harry Gamble, he announced that
the defense would not use any evidence.
Thornton was bound over to the present
terra of Washington cotintv court in the
sum of $1,000. He was unable to furnish
bail and an officer accompanied him back
to the county jail last evening. It is ex
pected that he will be tried next week.
Grand Juror William Wishart represent
ed the state at the preliminary hearing
and the state's attorney will prosecute in
county court.
With witnesses called and a jury em
paneled for service vesterday afternoon,
counsel for Adolfo Malnati of Cambria
street, charged with selling liquor ille
gally, announced his decision to plead
guilty. A formal plea was entered by
Hoar & Fay. respondent s counsel, and
Magistrate H. W. Scott continued the
case for sentence until next Monday.
Malnati asked permission to close up
.... V ! 1 .. I-
some ot ins nusincss anairs ocunc re-
eeivinc sentence, the mans house was
raided hv officers a few days atn on a
complaint made to Grand Juror Wishart,
who was in charge of proceedings against
Malnati. Bail of $350 was furnished for
the respondent's apearance next week
and liqror seized during the raid was
condemned and ordered destroyed.
250 KNIGHTS PRESENT.
At Exemplification of Third Degree at
St. Johnsbury.
St. Johnsbury, Oct. 24. George Bolvin
nf i:ru,ihv P O Hmtrict rienutv of the
led by the guards and marched to the ( - ... -f rn,,,u,la ne u Province of
supper room, where they were seated to yuol)PPi with hiH elltjr(. afT f officers
a banquet, the women numbering about from KarnnHm an(1 Montreal, was here
'i0- . , A, jlast night to exemplify the third degree
Those in charge of the supper were I 4n oxidates. Members of the conn
Mrs. Susan ( arroll, Jessie I.unn and ., . w. ,,,.,,. v,Vnnrt u-rhv
Line and Island Pond were here. Visit
ing knights from Hardwiek, Montpelier,
A number of
women witnessed the accident and
Charles M. Hawes and Ernest Fletcher,
employes of the Oldsmobile Co., were also
in the vicinity when the accident hap
pened. The witnesses generally concur
in the opinion that Mr. Badger was not
at fault. The fact that he was driving
slowly and that older children who were
with the Skerritt child were negligent in
crossing the street were cited as elements
which tended to absolve the driver of the
automobile from blame.
According to Mr. Badger, the car was
moving very slowly and his statement
in this respect is corroborated by .Messrs.
Hawes and Fletcher. As the car neared
the bridge, three children who had been
walking along the walk, suddenly darted
into the street. One of them ran directly
in the path of the car, across the high
way to the other side. The, second chad
and the Skerritt girl continued toward
the opposite side of the highway and
the driver of the ear states that he had
already brought his car almost to a halt
to avoid danger of running into the first
child. When the Skerritt girl and her
companion stopped in the middle of the
road, the older one paused for a moment
and then continued across the highway.
The Skerritt child, it is claimed, made
as if to join the other children, only to
stop suddenly, start for the side of the
street whence she came and then to turn
around again. Mr. Badger had started
his car once more when it looked as
though the road was clear and in his
judgment, it is claimed, the auto was
going at a rate of seven or eight miles
an hour.
Before he could bring the car once
more to a halt, the Skerritt child, ap
parently confused, was struck by the
bumper. She went under one of the
forward wheels. Women in a veranda
at the corner of Brook and Farwetl
streets are of the opinion that the wheel
did not pass over the child. In the driv
er's opinion, however, the little girl was
thrown directly under the wheel, which
passed over her body at the abdomen.
It is thought that the rear wheel carried
her along for a few feet until the auto
was brought to a dead stop. The second
wheel did not pass over her body, as she
was under the car when the occupants
alighted. The child did not lose con
sciousness, but appeared to ho in great
pain while the autoist was carrying her
home. ,
Arrangements for the funeral have not
been made, as parents of the girl are
awaiting a reply from their son, Harry
Skerritt, who is in Massachusetts. The
dead child's father is employed as a
gas maker by the People's Lighting,
Heating & Power Co. Besides her par
ents, she leaves three brothers and a
sister, an older sister having been de
ceased several years.
THROWN TO GROUND
members of the committee. The rooms
were beautifully decorated with the col
ors ot the association, tne aeeorations
showing a great deal of pains taken bv
the women in their efforts.
One eerious loss was the destruction
of the musical instruments of the First
Vermont infantry bamt. the property
LOCKLIN IN COUNTY JAIL.
Failed to Get $3,000 After Being Bound
Over.
Xorthtield. Oct. 24. Arthur W. Lock-
lin was bound over to eountv court un
der $3,000 hail by Justice J. M. Bullock
vesterday afternoon after a hearing on
the charge of larceny.
An application has been made to pro-
rmte court to remove Locklin as admln-
iistrator of the estate of John A. Locklin,
!his father. When he was arrested at the
33.000 ., t.tjon rr;.i.r 19.'1 in curren
cy was found tied around hm waist. A
check for 2,200 for sale of bank stock
owned bv the estate was cashed bv him
having been tored in the hotel by the at a Xorthfiald bank. Loeklm, who
leader, Frank Dunham, at the orders of jtailed to get ran yesteroay. wis taken
to the county jail at Montpelier by Ckief
(Continued on cizlih Dagej Donahue.
St. Alhans, Littleton, and Berlin X. H.,
swelled the number to 2.0. A buffet
lunch in Red Mens hall preceded the de
gree work. Knights of Columbus hall
was too small to accommodate the crowd,
and the work was exemplified in Pythi
an hall.
But Alfred Langevin, Bicyclist, Was Not
Run Down By Auto.
Alfred Langevin, aged 33, a lumpei
employed by Hebert & Ladrio, received
serious injuries this forenoon when a bi
cycle which he was riding came into col
lision with the Washington auto stage,'
owned by R. J. Scott. The accident oc
curred near the corner of Washington
and XeNon streets and the presence of a
team in the highway probably added te
the confusion of the auto driver as well
as the bicyclist when a collision seemed
imminent." A physician who was called
to the scene of the accident had the in
jured mn removed to his home on Mer
chant street, where multiple contusions
about the left side of the liody and thigh
were treated. It was feared that a frae.
ture of the left arm had been sustained
and a more definite diagnosis is to be
made with an X-ray apparatus.
Lanvegin, who is a lumper by trade,
had been working in the garden at tha
home of Joseph l.adrie on Xelson etreet.
When he had finished his work, he start
ed down Xelson street on the bicycle and
had jn"t swunn into Washington street
ATTACKED BY CAT.
Woman Book Agent Lacerated on Bel
lows Falls Street.
Bellows Falls. Oct. 24. A book airert.
who gave her name as Mrs. Edith Adams !when he saw the auto stage approaching,
of Somerville, Mass., sustained painful i Almost ahrea-l of the auto, according tA
injuries yesterday afternoon, when she i Ijmgeiin's statement, was a team head
attempted to pet a cat on Atkinson ed toward East Barre. Apparently the
street. driver of the stage was as anxious to
The animal was on a veranda railing aoid n accident as was the bicvele
and Mrs. Adams bent over to st-k to it.ri l-r. but in the confusion, bicycle and
It sprang at her and badly la -rat.-d Iht !ut- came together. langevin w
fare and arms. She refilled to hae a tbr.iwn to the ground in-tantiy. but the
d.H-tor drest the Hounds, doing it herself r did not ps over him . Ui wheal
at a lwal dru store. a deuiulisijcd.
