Stye lEmmutg
v -
Herald
KLAMATH COUNTY'S I
KLAMATH. FAELf
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
OFFICIAL NEWSPifcjm
r rtWi.
4o
Kini'iiih Vein N. s, t s
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1916.
Prlc, fit Coat
WILL TOY TO OVERTHROW CARRANZA
jjginnfir ..iiiii .- r .rvvvnrarinnnnni-innwuuuu.
SERBIANS CAPTURE
GERMAN TRENCHES
"ww'w'w,'w'''WWWWWWMMMMwyw
M.ire.nu:T.inii,coMniNKi Merrill and Malin
Dates Oct. 25-26
M.iikencn Taki's Itiillroutl Junction' , ....
'," j An error was made In yesterday
Intniy Mllrt West or Coi.tni..i. Herald In tho datos of the rop.it-
llcaii rallies this week. Tho dates for
lliltMi In Mtslit roi.solldi.to Gains ,,,,,,..., and Ma,n woro ,llcorrect Tw
vf Htculi) Capital of Hutiiaut.i "oircct dates for these two meeting
I arc: .
A Sight London Never Saw Before
IKt Ijiii's (ioniums Cot So Rooty
.11 C(M1-(3IIII.
.Merrill Octobor 20.
.Miilin October 26.
Won't Defend Mooncy
,. i ,.,.. o.. in i United Press Service
lulled Press Sen Ico I
I'ARIS, Oct, 2 'The Serbians In!" -AN FRANCISCO. Oct. 21.
feiunhig the v'ranco on Monnstlr Uhnliman Walsh, of tho Federal tn-
tme wpturcd tho German-Bulgarian .dustrlnl Relations Commission, today,
tienches to the ilepth of n halt mllo aa'n declined to conduct tho defonso
ilohK the Ccrna river. This Import-. of Thomas Moonoy, charged with
'complicity In tho dynamlto plot dur
j Ing tho preparedness parado I ivt
! rummer. Moonoy's trial Is set for
October 30.
of n
rnt grin followed repulsion
leatnl attacks oy the enemy.
Fr.rli German units aro eo-openil-lit;
vitli the Bulgarians.
All operation along tho Struma
l.rne Lecn halted by floods.
active.
United Press Servlco
PETROGKAD, Oct.
24. Tho Slavs
Cornnvodn br'tMliead, iOid tl.x only
In the Dolran region artillcrylng ts(nnvni by which tho Slavs rot. with
craw into old itumanin. rno i;er
inun now have over half tho railroad
which supplies lb. Rumanlan)(
ho German cavalry Is idvnnclng
north f Constanri ng.tlnst
who are opposing thi Teu
ton right wing
Tho capture today of MiljHl.i
gives the Germans n stronghold on
the Slav center I'no.
Berlin docs 'tot claim a large
l-odv with tho iiipturo of 0 jii -tnnrn
yrafcrday, but rny 7,000 Slavs wcro
t.i! n prisoners
Tho real Intent of tho Gorman of
fensive Is to crush Rumania from
two sides, render her llko Belgium,
and leave an example to other small
powers that might feci llko siding
with tho Allies.
Tho Atistrians hnvn raptured Pre
ni and nro attacking Red Tower pass,
according to Berlin.
Tho Rumanians claim victories
overywhero in Transylvania.
BBBBafeBBBBaraBk B" s .V K v t HTBBBar bE Bar&r u ji Hr wt vllLIIIIIBIiHIIIIIIIIIV9 JL J VIBnr&Br&Br&Br&Br&BBBr&Bar
SBBBBBBviBBBBBBBBBlBaBBBBB; BY aBBBBDBBflBLNflBjB7ajl48jBBHBBBBY 'MBHUf Wav
taaBBBaa'BBBBBBBBBBBVaB'BK'M m stbbTbbTbbbbbb vT''.bbTbbmsTbbW!': 't'lHilBn v
aBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBalfBKm s BBBBBaVBaaBBV-Y ':AtJ'aBBBBBnBB'BBV! IHImi ' XfF'raBBBBBBBBBK.'B
tSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB BBBBBB BlBBBBBBBMBBBBBk Yk VVSBBBBBBBBBBBUI . 'H A tm i aBBBBBBBBBBBc B
;aBSBBBBBWBBm - bbbbbBbbbbbk t vr iliiiiTBBaaaaaaaWBTi flBaamBaV 'HMI- .'; bbbbII
'affli, B KSbWbbbHKhbbBHHMbv! K'JbbbvI
iBBBBBBaKilBBBBaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBr MBjB. 1 " LBbMbbIbbV tUbW aBBBaBBBBBBBBWaBBBaBflHv'O: " . BBBLK
PUflBBBBBHHBHWBl'' " t aB VfH V,lBiBBBWBBBSIH 4 S BBBBBBBB
i. HfFKH3BB ; K tm BBBBBLHlBBBHflBB !" VbBBBBBBBBB 3 "l
T'1' BBBBBBSiBVPBBB'BB'''' twHJBBftHf flBBBBLI
F BBBBBBBbV!BBhL''BB7!BBBmBB s'BlJ,'v A' '' iS&BBBBBKBVXvf VTBBTBr
vHiHbH': TV k "! Bf i? -1 'AJL-'bbbbbIIB sfJvyV By'"-I(; J
V4 vBb1bBBBBKBBBK X'TBBBB . BbV y j . HBPBBBH1B V wV-fBl '?''Wi'i
I BBBBBBBBBBbVA iBBHk'.' . Vfekk -..r -' A'''1BBBBBB .''?'' V-BM" ', '
I fafafafafH'BR. '. 'nZ.-i''' ' BBBBBLBLJ. s' 'JjtJ "''' '
It s BBBBBBBBBBnKtyrBT '".,.. , VM- Hi TXy&.y-Xsk-X i.
fr BTBBll; M . , ITT B
Pv 4S BBBBBFVaBM'. ' fl S . AT BBB-l .Ji:
jvJ5 MBBBflBKO,r , j.f, ijv, tii, , . IflJ -tVttV St-BBft!
r . . . ..' .y.'ajn t1 .. a i ys?. sjtwm. av s'
' v 5 j VV-Sn If., , , . S tfc 4 ?' .Jt.A' iBBBVir','Ni.
; X P.TW t " . A C: -KTi j, - ' C 7i" rt j. , ". i . VJ 4Wy v,ll. " . JJJ tJ 'VW
"" ' in mIhii ii ii y--"
r t . - ?. . : v
,. vits.n''
r'rs
" a .. ?
WMMMrVllMMMMMH
GENERAL ROBLES IS
ON WAY TO CAPITAL
MANY BEEF AND
LAMBS BOUGHT
AND EXPORTED
1,021) lllv.VI) OK FKKIHvlt.S I.KK1'
vi:hti:hiav for tiitox
TftOOIft
TODAV ARK
MEXICO CITV
AHT OP
This photograidi of sodlors whoso legs were shot off Invito war was taken In London, In time they will bo
given mechanical legs and will abandon tholr crutches. Tho British surgeons have followed tho general policy
of cutting off limbs which seemed to thorn could not bo snvad. In Kinnco a much different mothod has been
pursued. There every effort has beo i made to prcsorvo limbs of wounded holdlcrs.
continue to resist the advance of the.rwlftly
combined German, Turkish-andHul-rtht-Slnvs
garlan forces at Dobrudja.
The Atistrians have hado no -now
attempts to lr.ade through tho Tro
tus valley.
The Rtnnnnlans have repelled at
' tacks at 0rsoa.
Genera Von Mackcnson today oc
upled Medjldis, the railroad junc
tion 20 miles west of Constnnzn.
LONDON, Oct. 21. Tho British
last night completely consolidated
the trenches won cast of Guedecourt
Monday, Artillcrylng along the Som
me Is Intermittent and of little con
sequence. Admitting the capture of Contranza
"ucharebt enys tho Germans have se
cured little booty, a8 tho evacuation
of the port was decided upon soma
time ago.
Kali-er Wlllieln. today tolegraphodT
.- v- &&
avor's Veto o( Ordinance
Meets With Little Favor
Mayor C. II. Crlslcr Ut.rncd at List icuiillllrd ekHtors of tho city at a hpo-J tonight, or even before the ordlnauco
ilght'ii meeting of tho city cou.uil.clal election, called for that purpose, W"B Passed."
that his veto of the ordinance ff.rfnnd defines such (tiiillllcatlon to bo I Then Councilman Miller passed to
i.a.ndlng the cllyV chait.ir m that the owning of reil property within I l,,u. n""Jlv-1 "' ..."..
These Were SlilpKxl by Mcl'liioiv &
ItrtolittloiilMM llac Demanded Irnmf
riiti.'c AlNllcatuiii of Carranui .inl
Itch use of All Political Prlsonis".
(lillMinl.ua City May Oe Kvacuateil
If Villa .Muke nn Assault on It,
An Impeded.
I,
United Press Rervlco
BKUMN. Oct. 24. Allied attacks
'fce izar of Bulgaria congratulating ( along tho Sommo havo been bloodily
"m on the victory at Constanza yc
I'Tilay.
Dnltfd irPP!, service
I0ND0.V, Oct. 2-1. Genoral Von
VaikenBcn tod.iv captured Rnsivo. on
" Danube, n nin 80utj, ,,f thn
defeated. The fields are covered with
rows of dead.
The Allies aro socking to breuk
through the Gorman lines in this sec
tor at any cost.
Attacks In tho Vordun sector also
have been turned back.
Reasons Why the Mayor
Vetoed Bend Ordinance
1 tlio Common Council of the City
"t Klamath Falls:
C'cntlemen I herewith return to
J. with my -eto, ordlnanco No.
Jj. being an ordinance proposing
n amendment to tho charter auth
'lzing the Issuance of bonds In the
""m of Moo.000 for tho purpose of
"Hiding, equipping, etc., or railways,
a'il give as my reasons for aald veto
he follewing:
I'irst Tlio charter of tho City of
"lamath Palls as enacted by the le-
vote.H on March 10, 1913, pro
vlles that no wai rants shall be 1s
jUcil upon the general fund unless
unde ate on hand with which to pay
uch warrants.
Becond The charter provides that
i" debt iinm of tho C)ty of Klamath
a Is Bhnll not exceed 10 per cent
the assessed valuation of tho prop
er'y of the city.
'llr(l T!ln rlinftAw mmilJA lka
" l,roP08ltlons to Issue bonds for any
(
specific municipal purpose shall first
be submitted to a vote of the quali
fied electors of the city at a special
election called for that purpose, and
doflnes such qualification to be the
owning of real property within the
city.
Tho ordinance which I am com
pelled, In my judgment, to veto, pro
vides for the issuance of warrants,
funds for the payment of same to be
subsequently provided, It further
provides that the deft limit of the
City of Klamath Palis shall be ret
nulue, and leaves the debt limit of
the city In a position to be Increased
Indefinitely. The ordinance further
provides that the common council
may issuo the bond therein proposed,
and, places the property owner and
the non-prpperty owner on the same
bails so far as. tho creation of muni
cipal Indebtedness la concerned. Our
Concluded oa rM 1
i
railroad bonds could hi insiied was de-, '( cll'
c'-kdly not In I'.ccovd vltli tho wishes
of ili'. pooplo, the mayor's fluidity i-i
his htand to tho con.r.iry i.otwitl.-
standlng.
Vigorous applaueo by the largo
crowd of citizens at tho meeting to,
cpocches by Councllmen A. 1). Millar
and I. It. Strublo, Attorney K. I 101
liott and" City Attorney R. C. Ciocs
bock clearly Indicated this.
Immediately after Police Judgo A.
.'.. Lcavltt had read Mayor Crlsloi's
veto, Councilman Miller moved Mint
it bo not unstained; Councilman
Srruble quickly seconded tho motion.
Several speeches wero heard and
wlteti Miller asked Councllmen It. J.
Shoots and O. I), Mathews Informally
If thoy wero prepared to vote on the
motion each answered no. Miller
saw that to call fr.r the qucsllo'i
would mean to logo It. Shoots pre
viously had moved an amendment to
Miller's motion, ns'lng that conoid-
eretlon be deferred. After a confer-1
ence, Miller withdrew his motion and
Sheets did tho same, nnd all council
men voted for an adjournment uu'll
8 o'clock tonight.
In the meantime, Kecler Brothers,
v.bose attorneys drafted the ordi
nance vetood by Mpyor Crlsler, nrn
bring conferred with I y wire and on
Tlir i ril I mi n co which I am
I v.i led In my Judgment to veto, pto-
vldoH for tho Issuance of win ninth,
and lead two copies of tho Herald,
i duo containing a statement from
COni- , ir... IhIuI.lii .... (I. n.....t., nf I. .
r.'ifiji'i vi inn-i ifii tnu ttiiiifuui ii iuu
indebtedness nnd the other one from
United Press Serrtc
Eh PASO, Oct. 24. General Jose
Roblcs and several thousand revolti-
Wnlker Wllllts Buys Fine Helfeis tionlsts today started for Mexico City
to ovorthrow the Carranza govern
ment, according to General Robles
secretary, who arrived here today
after delivering to Carranza a demand
that he abdicate and release alt po
litical prisoners.
Oeneral Robles' secretary says the
revolutionists are now In Pueblo,
enst of Mexico Cltv.
These aro busy duys for Klamath More - rom f!hihntu.
couutystock raisers and for buyers clty say another skirmish has lUrfed
for Itiincli South of-Tow li Berkley
Rii.tr, :l(M) llea; of Beef Fro:..
Bloomlitgctiiiip for Miller & Lux.
McKei.ch-ee Picks I'p Many IiuubN.
City Tie.isurer .1. W, SiemeuH. Tho
.,...,. .or u,u I.UJT...U.H .,. m.u.o 'iMnUo. ,t.,.iarc.l that tho Indebtedness
subseuuently provided. It riirtliur,or , t.ty wtH fa. lowor th, tl)0
provides that tho debt limit of Oio, ,, K,Vl) ,,y tll0 miiyo,.t
:iiy of Klamath Falls shall bo sot, ..w,. ,inVo yoll ,ilfiturtoI these
iiskic, and leaves ii.o oe.ii umi o
lie city In a position to bo Increased
Indefinitely. Tho oidlunueu further
provides that tho common council
may I is no tho bonds therein proposed,
mid places tho property owner and thu
non-property owner on thu Jaun
bnhls so far as tho creation of muni-
Ipnl Indebtedness Is concorned. Our
present vhaitor was adopted after dio
aril oxt ended consideration of tlio
provisions coutnluod thorclu, and It
Is rny opinion that tho tin in u should
not bo hustlly modified or repealed.
The ordlnauco under consideration
fiMitnlns tlio following expression
And nny provision or provlslonj ot
the charter or ordlnaucos of tho City
of Klamath Polls which conflict wlt-h
I ho provisions hereof, nro hereby re-
figures?" asked Miller. "Evidently
thu mayor has had tho vo(olng of
this ordlnauco In mind .for several
days; tho Htatement Issued last
week would Indicate this. Yet he did
not consult with the council on thu
matter.
'I hold this: that If tho people
ant n thing let thorn havo It; If
i thoy want to turn it down, let thorn
do It."
'Councilman Strublo then took tho
floor, and Bald:
'Wo hired the best logal advice on
munlclpn! bond Issues In tho country
to propnre this ordinance. The mayor
had tho ordinance a long time, but
did not say a thing to the council
itbnjjt Its faults If thoro aro nny.
'Who nro you or I, Mr. Mayor, ns
Potty office holders, that wo can say
for tho outside markets. During the
Inst wcok many transfers of livestock
have been made, and one large ship-villa's ranch.
meat sent out.
Yesterday Mclxsmore & Walker
shipped 1,029 head of feeders to Tip
ton, Calif., whore thoy will bo fat
toned for slaughter. All of these wore
Klamath county stock. They aver
aged about 1,000 pounds, and 'were
steers only.
I.. F. Wllllts has just completed
purchase of forty head of lino holfers
from A. T. Langcll of Bly. He also
has bought eighteen head of heifers
fion. Tom Martin. Ho is moving all
this stock to his ranch for feeding.
J. 1-. Beckley, buyer fur Miller & '
l.ux, has puichaseu suu hoau ot;
choice hoof from Bioomlngcamp
brothers of Bly, and Is now moving
this stock, toward Klamath Falls.
O. T. McKcndrce of I,akevlow has
purchased 3,000 head of lambs from
Frank Bloomlngcump. Most of these
In nibs wcro raised near Paisley. He
Tilso has collected about 10,000 head
of lambs from other stockmen, both
In Klamath and Lnko county. These
arc now being fattened nnd will begin
to bo moved In January.
botween Vllllstas and Carranilstas
on the outposts of Fresno, which Is
United Press Berne
KL PASO, Oct. 24. Hundreds of
refugees from Chihuahua City are
arriving in Juarez. They declare
Poncho Villa Is on the western side
of tho city and that the Inhabitants
expect nn attack at any moment.
General Trevlo, Carranxlsta con
mnnder, has sent his family to Juarez
for safety.
i Some people believe this indicates
that tho Carranzlstas' will evacuate
j Chihuahua City when Villa assaults
pealed."
. When Councilman Mlllor took tlio to tho people, 'You shall not vote on
floor after his motion to not mmtnlii. this question or you shall vote on
the veto, ho said In part: j that one?' If thoy want to vote this
' The mayor has picked idle Haws ordinance, give thorn a chance."
fn the ordinance and raised polnlii When Mayor Crlslcr offered tjie
thfelr renllea nrobablv will hanir ti.e 'hot can bo mot. His first objectloa , floor to any of the citizens present,
fate of tho bond ordinance. The nt-l11"'1 funds must bo on hand before ' Attorney K. J Elliott was prevailed
torneys are being Interrogated on tho ""J wurrants can bo Issued !) not , upon to speak,
SPROULE LOOKS
AT OTHER END
HKAI) OP HP. CONSIDERS RAIL
ROAD POHHIBaUTIKg OP THK
HOUTHFRX PART OP MODOC
NORTHERN' AFTER VISIT HERE
Sanction Prohibition
United Press Service
ST. l.nniH Del 24 Tlio hoiifn of
, . . j,ftc
deputies of tho Protestant Episcopal Wjl
cnurcn touny auopiea n-resoiuwon
giving tho official sanction- of th
church to any prohibition movement.
Tho resolution now goes to the bish
ops for concurrence.
Won't Vacate Avenue,
Tho council last night disallowed
the petition for vacation of a portion
of Johnson avenue. There were nine
protestors to the vacation,
SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 24. Preol
dont William Sproute of the Southern
Pacific yesterday afternoon reached
etwood to Investigate the railroad
possibilities of Lassen and Modoe
counties.
It is unconflrmedly rumored that
this investigation may have soma
connection with the recent visit ot
Sproule to Klamath county, Oregon,
where he considered the northern end
ot the proposed Modoc Northern rail
road. Westwood Is the present terralnuB
of the Fernley line via Suttuvllle.'
three objeotons to the ordnance sot
forth In the veto message.
These objectons aie:
First The charter of tho City of
Klamath Falls, as enacted by legal
toters on March 10, 1913, provtdoa
that no warrantsshall be Issued upon
thu general fund unless funds nro
ou hand with which to pay such war
rat.ts. (
Second The chnrter provide tint
the debt limit of the City of Klamath
Palls shall not exceed 10 per cent ot
the assessed valuation of the property
of the city,
Third The charter provide that
all propositions to Issue bonds for
any specific municipal purpose shall
f,raj bo submitted to a vote ot the
He said in part!
good because tho people should have' "What Is there In our city charter
u right to docldo, whether or not they j that Is ho sacred that woK cannot e
mho to roponl this provslon of tho 'peal it or change It? Even the ch.y
clmi'tcr and Issue warrants beyond! tor of this nation, tho United States
the funds on hand. Tho objection ' constitution, has been amended and
that the debt limit must be hold ut
10 per cent of the proporty valuation
of the city is weak for the same ron
ton. Lot the peoplo say whether or
not tho limit shall be raised,
"As to tho third objection that
only property owners may vote on
measures to Issuo bonds I will jay
that able and trained attorneys pro
pared tho ordinance tho mayor hns
vetoed. But evou In this cuso the
peoplo should have the say. It the
mayor felt, na this "veto Indicates, te
should havo Bald something boforo
parts of it repealed. There Is noth
ing inviolable In the charter. Let
the people amend It and later re
ennc t the amended provisions If they
care to."
Councilman Doty said!
"The people are going to get a
whack at this thing somehow."
Move to Town,
Jesse Siemens and wlfo moved to
Klamath Falls yesterday from Peli
can Ray, where they spent the summer.
Klamath Team Leaves
for 3 Football Games
To play three football games In Ave
c'nys, the Klamath high school foot
ball squad leaves tomorrow morning
tor Rogue River Volley. Coach Ches
ter1 Hugglns, Referee V, T. Motschen
bacber and Manager Carl Newbury
will accompany the team,
' Ashland will be played Thursday,
Med'ford Saturday arid Grants aPs
Monday. Prospects for a vlctory'over
Ashland and Grants Pass appear
' .',
bright, but the local boys are 'father
dubious about their chances against
Medford.
Ay'jffy.
The men who will make th4rtK
announced by Coach .HugilM,' are
Motschenbacber and Delielli HJeater;
Stenrns, Carl Adbaa ffiiOrfp,
guards; Melhase and" Hilton, tackles;
Rlggs and Elliott, ends-' Klal, Pla
ter, Cecil Adams, 'Short " Mont
gomery, back. "ce' i ,
IWSKSi i
mm :
m
i
ii
