1
"
. FULL LEASED
. WIRE DISPATCHES
4 .
f - )c
4
CmCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
-.: V. . ". .
; i
ITHmTY-NINTH YEAR NO. 227
SALEM, OREGON, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24,. 1916
vmTrm mrrrz-k nniTma OH TRAINS AND NEW
JLI4 1WU liCJi AO STANDS FIVE CENTS
ICIf NSEN DRUG
RUh'ANIANS LIKE SHEEP
r
Captures Town,. , Rasavo on the Danube and Only Bridge by
Which Russians and Rumanians Can Withdraw To Old
. Rumania-Germans Meet Some Success in Transylvania
Berlin Says Loss of Allies Tremendous Serbians
. Press Nearer to Monastir
London, Oct. 24. With more than half the Constanza
"Cernavoda railway in his hands, Field Marshal Macken
sen is advancing swiftly northward aiming to destroy a
. large part of the Russo-Rumanian army. .
Mackensen's left wing has captured ' the town of
Rasavo on the Danube, it was officially announced at Ber
lin today. Rasavo is only eight miles south of Cernavoda
and the only bridge over the Danube by which the re
treating Russo-Rumanians can withdraw to old Rumania
with their guns and other equipment.
The Teutonic center has captured the railway junction
of Medjidia, the center point of support of the Russo
Rumanian line. The right wing has swept on through
Constanza in pursuit of the retreating Rumanians, pursu
ing cavalry having reached the region of Caramurat. '
The German-Bulgar-Turkish armies have captured
0,678 prisoners and 52 machine guns, it was officially an
nounced at Berlin.
The German war office, however, claims no large
. amount of booty, apparently confirming a Rome report
that supplies were removed from Constanza several days
ago.
While Mackensen was winning his victory in Do
brudja, the resumption of the offensive in Transylvania
with the purpose of crushing Rumania between eastern
and western armies has met with some success, Berlin re
ported. ' The Austro-Germans have captured the Ruman
ian town of Predeal after several days of fierce fighting
near Predeal Pass.
Both the Rumanian and Russian war offices issued
statements today admitting the loss of Constanza, Petro
grad reporting also the capture of Medjidia by the Teu
tons. The Rumanian war office explained that the Ru
manians' left wing has been compelled to retire from
Constanza by enemy pressure, falling back upon Cara
murat. Both the Rumanian and Russian statements, however,
announced Rumanian victories near the Transylvanian
frontier, especially in the Oituz valley, where the Ru
manians attacked on the whole front, capturing ten of
ficers, HO; men and ten machine guns.
In Macedonia the Serbians have resumed their of
fensive toward' Monastir, capturing German-Bulgar
trenches. In the other theatres of war there have been
no newdevelopments.
The German Nut Cracker.
Berlin, Oct. 24 Two powerful armies,
nttueking from enst tuid we.it, tliroateu
to crush Rumania in a mighty vise nnd
put her out of the v.nr beforo fiuter.
Field Marshal Mackensen's Gerraan-Iliilgnrinn-Turkish
forces have captur
ed nearly a third of the Constanza
Cernavoda railway and are pressing iu
upon Cernvoda itself. The Rumanian
force that evacuatoil Constanza is fall
ing back hastily to escape annihila
tion .
On Rumania's western front, Fisld
Marshal Fnlkenlinyn has resumed the
offensive and is currying the battle to
the Rumanians at several iliffereut
places on Rumanian soil.
It is believed here that serious riots
will occur iu the Rumanian capital
Cantaloupes were unusually fair -an'
lionorahle this season. l'rof. Alex
Tansey want t' know what has be
come o' th' ole time anti-rattkr cuff
I'll 1 1 mi s f
when news of the loss of Rumania's
only important seaport Is made public.
Mackensen's easy victory at Constan
za was due partly to the Rujso-Runinn-ians'
lack of atrillery, it is understood
here- When Fnllceuhnyii began sweep
ing the Ruinnninns out of Trnusvlvau
ir.n passes to check the invasion of their
iVet-tern borders. The Russians brought
reinforcements in men to Pobruilja but
were unable to bring adequate artillery
equipment nnd the enemy batteries were
unable to offer effective opposition to
the Teutonic advance.
One report from Sofia today said that
Constanza was won with hardly any
fighting, the Rumanians evacuating
.shortly after German detachments cut
the railroad to the west. Cavalry forces
entered the city in the afternoon and
found it deserted by the enemy.
The decisive victory over the Ruman
ians is expected to have a tremendous
influence in Greece, stifling the allies'
attempts to win Greece's armed sup
port. Dead Lie in Bows.
Berlin, via wireless io snyville, L. I.,
Oct. 24 Fighting of the greatest vio
lence continued yesterday ou the Som-
me front, it was officially, announced
today.
"in order to break through at any
price," says tfto statement, "the Eng
lish and French continued their attacks
...:tl. .l.nn.i fimau Tn uitita nf tlwii-
of these masses north of the Sommo,
they suirereu sanguinary ucieui.
"Kntire rows of dead are lying, one
upon another, especially west of l.e-
1 ransloy. ine nrmsii war on ice iai
..l.rl.. .iinnnnnuil th CHlltlirO flf 1 OltO
Mllll ' I -
yards of trenches in this region.) The
conduct or our troops was as spicmuu
as possible.
"Mouth of the Somme the French pre
pared to advance on the sector of Ablnn
court -Chaulnes but our annihilating fire
made the attack impossible.
"Ou the Verdun front the enemy
tried to assist the Somme attacks by at
tacking. Our positions east of the
Meuse were strongly snencu our nosmc
infantry was held to its trenches by
our strong and efficieut artillery. At-
(Continued on page eight.)
Grand Old Veteran
Honored in Death
Portland, Or., Oct. 24. Flags were
hoisted to half . mast today in memory
of General James Jackson, veteran civ
il war leader, indian fighter and for
mer inspector general of the Oregon na
tional guard, who died at his home here
last Saturday.
His body lay in state at the armory,
surrounded by a guard of honor from
10 a. m. to 1 p. m.
. Chaplain W. S. Gilbert of the Third
regiment,' national guard, is to conduct
the funeral ceremonies. Local posts ot
the G. A. K. and the Spanish war veter
ans have been summoned to escort the
cortcee through the streets th's after
noon. Governor Withycombo will at
tend.
All branches of the militia will ahto
participate. United States regulars from
Vancouver, Wash., have been ordered
to take part, firing three volleys at
the grave in Fairview cemetery and
sounding "taps" after the body has
been laid to rest.
WITHGREAT HAUL
Tackletf Home of Sporting
Man and Got $109,000
Worth of Jewelry
ew York, Oct. 24 One of the big
gest robberies that has occurred about
New York in years was reported to
the police.today when Frank Grey Gris-
wold, prominent Wall Street and sport
ing man, told of burglars entering his
Long Island homo lust night and escap
ing with jewelry and silver. valued at
between $SO,000 and $100,000.
This estimate "of the loss was made
by Griswold and his wife who motored
in to headquarters to report the rob
bery. Griswold, his wife and her daughter,
Miss Murv Canfield, are believed to
have been chloroformed by the robbers
at the Griswold house, one of the show
places on Long Island. Griswold and
Mrs. Griswold told the police they a
woke this morning with a severe head
ache and the daughter was ill. In one
of the rooms was found a rag or liand
hercliief, which was believed to have
been saturated with chloroform and to
have been used in rendering members
of the household unconscious. Foot
prints were found in all of the sleeping
rooms.
The burglars aparently took their
time. Thev ransacked drawers and clos
ets throughout the house, opened jewel
cases aim 'picked out only the most
costly gems and piled the empty boxes
up behind curtains in rooms of the
lower floor.
All indications were that the robbers
came to the house and escaped in an
automobile. Griswold said automobile
tracks leading up to the house were
found in the grass.
is oircje SLOGAN
If You Do, the Club Expects
You to Prove It by Your
Helping Upbuild It
A splendid example of scientific re
organization is seen in the Kiilera Com
mercial club which, 10 months ago, cast
precedent to the wind and-set out to
supplant theory by practice.
The plan of reorganization as applied
to the city in the beginning was large
ly theoretical. It remained for the
management of the club to make it prac
ticable. Has the management succeeded!
Judge for yourself.
Instead of a deficit the organization
today has a cash balance of more than
$2,000. It's net worth is more than
$0,000. 1
Instead of making the city fit the
club's needs the club has been made to
fit Salem's needs. The promises of the
reorganizes arc now about to become
facts. It is up to you. The man anil
woman who lives here has the future of
the city in his or her hands.
Let's get together. Let's stick to
gether. Hearty co-operation v.ill result
in these things for nalem within a com
paratively short time: j
I An industrial fund of $'.'50,000 to
be used in bringing to the Capital City
factories which will prosper in this com-
muntiy. i
2 A new Southern Facme depot.
3 A co-operative commission house
to handle the produce raised by the
farmers of this section.
4 A public dock and warehouse on
the river. In addition the installation
of a lock nnd dam system between Sa
lem and Oregon City is also possible.
This will secure a competitive water
freight rate for this city.
5 An inter-county bridge
All these things are within Salem's
grasp. Can Salem afford to neglect the
opportunity f Are these things worth
working forf Then do your share. Line
up with those who are giving freely of
their time and efforts to bring these
(Continued from page one.)
BOTH SIDES V80
WOMAN WITH VOTE
BUT SHE IS FLIRTY
SBBSsSaBsa.SB
Each Side. Claims ' the Women
Are for Them But "You
. Never Can Tell"
WADS OF LOVE LETTERS
SENT BY EACH. LOVER
4,000,000 of Them to Vote
and of These Illinois
Has 800,000
By Car D. Groat.
(1'nitetl l'resa staff correspondent.)
New York, Oct. 24. Four million wo
men 's votes aren't to be sneezed at this
presidential year.
The two big partios admitted this
frankly today and said thev 're turning
every possible attention to wooing the
suffrage ballots.
fcacn side claimed the maioritv of the
women would be for them, but each was
just Us frank in admitting that it's
nara to tag 'Women voters and that
there'll be much independent voting.
As the republican woman's branch
put it, "the women will not vote as
ihoir husbands, brothers and sweet
hearts do-"
The democratic camp said, "suffrngc
will not be u determining factor. Wo
men will reason for themselves and vote
as they see tit, though we believe they
will see that Wilson is their best hope."
Thy are very earnest folk these wo
men campaigners. A few around head
quarters of both parties looked as
though this hunt lor the elusive vote
might be a lad, but for the most part
they had theiriuts off and were hust
ling. Both sides are making a big drive on
strictly economic questions, arguing
that what affects men also affects wo
men. Workers at Hughes headquarters
were busily engnged in mailing out a
list of questions for women to ponder,
involving largely matters of higr-nr liv
ing costs, tariff and the like. Theilr
circular suggested, too, that on strictly
women's and children's matters the G.
O. I', had been the moro favorable.
Around the corner, near the Grand
Central station, the democratic women
were just as busy mailing out literature
to prove that the children's bureau, the
commission on industrial relations, the
child labor bill aud even the federal
reserve act and rural credits measures
are big arguments why Wilson should
have the women's vote.
The states where women vote are Wy
oming, Colorado, Utah, Idaho, Washing
ton, Oregon, Arizona, Kansas, Illinois,
Montana and Nevadu. Illinois leads
with about 800,000 votes, while the
whole registration totals about 4,000,-
000.
Barrett Murder Case
Puzzles Detectives
Los Angeles, Cal., Oct. 24. Detect
ives today spread out a net for an al
leged accomplice of llcntnn L. Barrett.
aged slayer, who confessed to tho mur
der of his wife and 17 year old stepson,
following nn attempt to bum a barn
on the Hnrrett farm, where the slayer
admitted the murder was done.
The case, officers admit, is one of
the most puzzling to solve in local
criminal history., Barett, altering his
first story, gave his version of the kill
ing iu the barn, refused to give any
other motive than that of self defense,
while detectives declare his very story
contradicts this statement.
While a police officer stood guard
over the death barn last night, a fig
ure stole up out of the darkness and
tried to throw a flaming cloth into the
hay loft. Officer Henninger, who was
ou guard, surprised the would-be incen
dnries, who escaped despite a shower
of bullets from Kenningcr's revolver.
Providence Journal
Makes Wild Claims
Providence, R. I. Oct. 24. That Cap
tain Boy-ed, debarred German naval
attache of the Washington embassy, de
spatched the C-O.'t mid two other sub
marines here to force a United States
ruling on their activities, wus claimed
by the Providence Journal today.
Further, that paper stated that the
U-5.1, the V-4H and the U-81 still are in
American waters.
In support of its claims, the Journul
presented a letter which it claimed Boy
ed had written here, saying:
"In order to ascertain where we
stand we must, therefore, force the is
sue and see to what extent America is
willing to carry out her alleged human
itarian ideals by helping us to save the
live of those whose ships we destroy in
the coming campaign in the western At
lantic." Gloves, belting and other leather ar
ticles have been made from sea lions'
hides iu a British Columbia factory,
PRESIDENT GIVEN
WARM PRAISE BY
OREGON'S SENATOR
Great Audience Applauds as
Achievements of Adminis
tration Are Named
EIGHT HOUR LAW DUE TO
PRESIDENTS INITIATIVE
Defens of President's Course
with Mexico Brings
Tremendous Applause.
"This ampaign is in mnnv respects
more important than that of 1800. Then
the question was of saving the Union
intact. Now it is a question of saving
it for our people rather than for the
interests."
"This administration has kept evcrv
premise it made to the people, and be
sides has fulfilled tho pledges made by
tne progressive party, as well as the
constructive measures long promised by
tho republicans but never fulfilled."
'Congress has performed more con
structive legislation in three and a half
years than all congresses before it in
to years."
"The federal reserve bill took the
control of the people's money out of the
hands of the New York money kiugt
and placed it under the control of the
people's representatives. In doing so it
pulled the teeth of the gang and made
their bito harmless for it took from
them the power to create panics.
"It took little children out of the
grasp of the bloodless corporations, out
of tho grind and gloom of the sweut
shops and gave them a sight of God's
sunshine and a breath of uncontuminat
cd air. It put humanity and human life,
children's Jives, above the dollar.'"
"In passing the erght hour law. the
country was saved from appalling dis
aster, and in the only wnv iu which it
could have bcn so saved."
"The rural credits law is the grentes!
piece of constructive legislation passed
since the country became a nation, ami
for the first time placed the farmer on
a level with other business, in the mat
ter of borrowing money for his needs."
"the seaman s bill and the initial
stcp3 toward securing a merchant ma
rine, will in a few years make the Am
erican flog visible in every port of tho
world, and the shipping trust, the wins!
monopoly the country is cursed with,
will bo broken."
"The building of the AlnsV.a railroad
alone prevented the grabbing of that
vast territory with its untold mineral
wealth by the Guggenheinis and that
class. W'e built a railroad with the
people's money over the people's land
to snvc and open up the people's prop
erty."
Made Profound Impression.
These are some of the main points
brought out by the senator in his clear
and forceful way. The senator has been
part or these things. He has helped pass
these laws and knows even the minutest
details of them. As he elucidated these
details, and showed the why and where
fore of the measures passed by congresB
the big audience as point after point
was driven home and achievement aft
er achievement piled on top of one an
other until a great pyramid of benefic
ial legislation wus built up, sat breath
less only when appreciation broke into
expression in tumults of applause.
And through it all the senator held up
President Wilson as tho great central
figure, the moving cuuse of much of this
great work of congress.
"lie asserted that tho charge that con
gress had surrendered to furce in pass
ing the eight hour day law was abso
lutely false. Tho railroad employes had
met the railroad managers in New York
City for the purpose of settling their
grievances between themselves. Neith
er asked congress or the administration
to interfere in any way. They could not
agree, and the men's representatives
were ready to start for home and call
a strike to go into effect September 4.
It was then President Wilson of his own
initiative took a hand- The men nnd the
managers thought they wero settling a
private quarrel. They overlooked one
hundred million American citizens who
would be the real sufferers should their
quarrel be not amicably settled. Presi
dent Wilson as the people's representa
tive called both men and malingers to
Washington in an effort to settlo the
dispute, and he failed. I(e then called
on congress, and the Adnmson law was
the result. Had that striko materialized,
had it not been prevented by President
Wilson's forethought and prompt action,
this country would have hud ruin and
starvation to face. That one act for
which he is condemned by the "vocal
element" as ho called Mr. Hughes nnd
Mr. Roosevelt, should win him the grati
tude and support of every citizen.
He eallod attention to Colonel Koose
velt's classing it as "cowardly surrend
er," and also to the fact that when
Roosevelt was president, the big finan
cial interests behind United States
steel wanted to violule the Sherman
laws, and absorb the Tennessee Iron A
(Continued on page five.)
Bethlehem Steel
Makes $25 Jump
New York, Oct. 24. Bethlehem steel,
one time leader of the "war brides,"
came to life today with an advance of
39, to $025 a share, $25 above its record
price, established October 25, 1915.
Bethlehem steel furnished the star
performance of the war bride move
ment lust year, starting at about $30 a
share before the war and finally Bell
ing at an even $600. For months the
atoclt nns been inactive gradually climb
ing back toward its record level recent
ly. United States Bteel opened at 120 1-2
today, up 6 a. Republic steel was up
1 5-S at SO 1-8. Changes in the general
list were irregular at the opening.
Before 11 o'clock Bethlehem had sold
at $025.
Texas company made a new high rec
ord at 232, having gained S3 points
since oune- kock island advanced 1 1-4
to 20 1-4 on earnings reported. .Utah
copper set a new high of 102 up 1 3-4.
Hirst hour sales were 378,000 shares.
Automobile Plunges Through
Open Draw Carrying Four
to Their Death
Chicago, Oct. 24. Police boats today
aro dragging the Chicago river at
Twelfth street to find the four bodies
of the social workers who were drowned
late last night when the automobile in
which they were riding plunged into
the unguarded open draw of the river.
J ho dead:
Hugo J. Warner, age 31, official of
Lord and Thomas Advertising Agency.
sytvitn tinsel, age 20, law student at
University of Chicago.
Mrs. Lillian lvlausner, ngo 30, social
worker.
Miss Jennie Klausner, age 22, cousin
of Mis. Kluusner, teacher.
J lie rescued:
Mrs. Henrietta J. Warner, age 30,
widow of Hugo J. Warner, volunteer
social worker.
Tho body of Hugo J. Warner was re
covered today one hundred feet from
the sunken automobile.
Miss Sarnh Bernstein, age 30, settle
ment worker.
The party was returning from an
evejiing's work at tue Maxwell settle
ment. The limousine approached the
bridge nt Twelfth street lit tho fog
cautiously. Survivors said the signal
box sounded no alarm mid tho car
plunged into the open draw. Investiga
tion showed tho fuse controlling the
signal was blown out.
it was through the heroism of one
of the drowned men, who freed her
from the wreckage, that Mrs. Warner
is nlive today to tell her story.
Jt is believed the tour bodies aro in
the limousine at the bottom of the
river.
Later the police recovered the other
threo bodies. Mrs. Lillian Klausner'
and her cousin, Miss Jennie Klausner,
lied in each other s arms. Their bodies
were found in the rear of the limousine
by the driver who had been working on
the bottom of the Chicago rivr'r all day.
Tho body of Sylvan Kusel was found
entangled in the front sent of the auto
mobile. Mad Scene from Lucia
Worked Over Again In New
York Apartments
New York, Oct. 24. The hall boy,
who had just hail the mad scene from
"Lucia" made over into n new fall
necktie and was feeling very good a
bout it, decided to permit the report
er to interview Miss Heiupel.
Miss Frieda Ilempel, that is, the
grand opera prima donna who lost her
music to the German censor at the
frontier a few days ago, and her equili
brium hero today when she saw what
the decorators had done to her upurt
ments. The hall boy did his best but with a
hall boy who can't speak German and
a maid who wouldn't eak Knglish,
an appeal to a janitor with a deep bass
beard was necessary.
Thus, by the aid of a funereal ele
vator man with a fuce as long and
monotonous as a Liszt symphony, was
Miss Ilempel located In B flat, in the
mill. lie. of a high note and a low neca.
Miss Ilempel was singing in a glass
room, something the average New York
apartment vocalist wotildn 't dare to do;
not with tho neighbors reeling as incy
do.
Miss Ilempel stopped nnd, threading
her way carefully among the decorators
who had torn ut everything and were
playing rngtimo with the furniture,
camo out,
"1 cannot, cannot talk to yon," said
Miss Hcmpel. "I am mad, insane, fren
zied. Always the-elevator is running
(Continued on rB three,) -
GENERAL
RORLES
WITH 22,000 III
AFTER CARRANZA
New Revolution Takes Form
and Demand Made 0a
Carranza to Resign
CLAIM ROSLES IN FULL
CONTROL OF ONE STATE
i t
Hundreds of Refugees Flock
ing Into Juarez to ;
Escape Villa .
El Paso, Texas, Oct. 24. Hundreds of
refugees, fleeing from Chihuahua City,
strcumed into Juarez during the night
and early today bringing continuation
of the reports of Villa s presence out
side Chihuahua City. These refugees
declare that the Villistas are on the
western side of the city and an attack
ou the northern Mexico capital is ex
pected ut any moment..
About midnight three hundred resi
dents of Chihuahua City arrived in Jn-iiroz-
v Another train brought the family
of General Trcvino, Carrauzista com
mander. In one car were 30 girls, daugh
ters of the most prominent families i
the capital. Many of the refugees cross
ed to the American side of the border.
Nearly all these refugees had left be
cause they feared Villa would again
attack Chihuahua City and some of the in
believe General Trcvino will evaeoats
the city with his forces when the as
sault begins.
Tho situation is believed serious be
cause Treviuo's family had returned to
Chihuahua City only a week ago. The
refugees also brought confirmation ef
the defeat suffered by the do facto
government troops in the two day bat
tle Vtlduy and Saturday at Palomas.
While hunting Caches of amuunitioa
recently near Namiqulpn, Villa stopped
on the Santa Ana ranch, a Hearst prop
erty, according to arrivals in Juarez.
At one time a scouting party from the
Americnu Fifth cavalry wag only 25
miles away. Six hundred beeves wtro
killed on the ranch oy Villa's men, it
is declared.
A New Revolution.
Kl Paso, Texns, Oct. 24 General
Jose Robles, in command of several
thousand revolutionists, has started a
march on Mexico City to drive out Mrst
Chief Carranza, according to a state
ment made hare today by Kmiliano C'an
tu, secretary to Robles( who arrived
from the national capital after deliver
ing a letter demanding that Carranza,
abdicate and release certain political
prisoners.
The revolutionists columns have al
ready entered the state of Pueblo, south,
of the capital, Cantu declared.
Washington state department offic
ials hero have reliable information that
Rubles commands 22,000 men and con
trols tho entire state of Oaxaca. Largs
numbers of this command were former
ly adherents of Felix Diaz. Robles was
sent by the Mexicnn de facto govern
ment to campaign against Diaz. Instead,
Rubles and Diar fused their commands,
the former taking tho leadership.
Villa at Chihuahua,
Kl Paso, Texas, Oct. 24. Refugees ar
riving from Chihuahua City today re
ported another skirmish between out
posts of the de facto government troops
ami Villistas at Fresno, 10 miles west of
Chihuahua City- Fresno is Villa's own
rnnch, purchased by him while lie was
in control of tho state of Chihauhua. No
details havo been received as to the out-
co mo of the fight.
Start Work on Portland's
Big New Ship Yards
Portland, Or., jet. 24. V"ork started
today on tho yards of the new Oregon
shipbuilding corporation, a $500,000
concern which hns already closed con
tracts for the contsruction of i fonr
SSIIO ton stcamerB for Norwegian inter
ests, at an aggregate cost of $4,000,000.
The dredge Columbia was shifted to
tho area south of the Northwest Hteel
company's plant this morning, for taa
purpose of dredging 200,000 cubio yards
of earth and sand from the river into
the fill, which will have a frontags of
4.,l.r feet ou the Willamette. The Smith
and Watson Iron Works is largely In
terested in tho new venture.
THE WEATHER :
Oregon: Fair
tonight and Wed
nesday; frost to
night; easterly
winds.
