V
m
(MwcU 'Arm.
.
m
vol. m
ONTARIO, IIAI.HHI K OOUNTT, OJU-OOW. THURSDAY, AUGUST T. 1016
f '! I I 1 . . . I i -- 1
WCMBKR IW
Warmsprings Bonds Carry By Big Majority
JiAiL ELECTION RESULT AS CRlAKST
FORWARD STEP TAKEN IN YEARS
Eleventh Hour Opposition Whf Te ff ot Active Caused Sur
prise Total Vote 86 For Bonds to 23 Against On
tario Division itfcj'r 11 to 11 Vale Cast 29 to
None Against.
Sees Big Results From Rond Vote
Hy a vote o( 8 for to 2.1 against, the .
Wnrtniiprlnf bondii carried at the
if. nun held on Tii4BJJ. .JThls re-
hum is declared on every huna to be
the blggeat forward taoJfekon In
Miillieur county for years, the
rilOTMT IIAHIKH HY
ELIMINATING TRAVEL
That Infant Ho paralysis la
traveling weatward waa Indicat
ed thin week by the development
of seven caaes In Billing, Mon
anft When the attention of Dr. W
J. Weeae waa directed to thla re
port ho aald, "There la but one
moans of protecting the children
from thla disease, namely by
preventing contact. The parents
of this section should not travel
to the east with their children."
Th doctor, added, however,
that the scourge usually lasted '
but two or three months and
disappeared iind now must have '
about run Its course.
,
tin
portance of which to Ontario, Vale
unl the ranchers of the valley can
not bo over estimated, according to1
the moat reliably Informed students
iif the local agricultural situation. '
While the general result waa fore-
casted correctly an eleventh hour op-
position appeared, which for a time
gave some concern to the advocates'
'of the bonds. Perhaps the most
surprising result of the ballot waa
the vote In what Is known aa the
Ontario district, which waa cast ni
the ('. B. 8. Wood ranch In aectlon
IS. There the vote waa tie, 11 for
to 11 against.
i ii. m ii- at Yale.
In contradistinction to the rote
there was that In the Vale division
where there were 29 votes for the
bonds to none against. In the sec
ond illHtrlct above Vale the vote was
14 for to 8 against; In the first dis
trict above Vale it was 18 for to two
against; In the Mallett district the P. J. Gallagher Tells of Big
rote was 12 for to two againat, show-1 . n --, sv, T-
Ing the general approval with which1 " - w w.o iutoi-
the obligation was approved by the iOT Thinks Big Problem
property owners. Solved.
"It la Impossible to estimate the
full Import of what thla election
means to this region, said A. W
Trow, when the result
HARNEY COUNTY
NEVER BETTER
--.rMWM . M 111 aaMafc' -
B " HcftS
GOVERNMENT EXPERTS COME HFRF
TO INVESTIGATE MALHEUR DISTRICT
S. Fortier and W. G. Sloan Relate Beneficial Results Ob
tained in Twin Falls Region Declare Local Drainage
District Well Formed and Want It to Serve an Object
Lesson for Oregon.
MOKK I 4. u-. I.KHH
, Tor the purposo of making a
u.m-
VOBAOOO Mom. iimiimss Plte oiatninatlou of tho Malheur
If UM men putrouljcd the .l)rBnI district, 8. Portier, clilef of
flower stores more and the cl- ,th Irrigation Investlgatlun office of
gur stores less, thero would be ,"l department of public roads, with
morn happiness In this old
world,'1 declare, Hev. D. E.
linker in his sermon to tho con
gregation at the union service
last Sunday evening. The ser
vices were held at the Methodist
Kplscnpnl church
Preaching on the theme, "The
Symphony of Life," Rev. Ilak
er averred that there never waa
a tllme when run time amuse
ments as well as rag time music
headquarters at Washington U. C,
ana W. Q. Sloan, drulnage englneei
for the Idaho and Oregon district ar-
'rived in Ontario Tuesday evening.
On Wednesday they started on a tour
'of the district on which they will
prepare a rpporl.
The drainago board work
under the supervision of U W. Cage,
who has charge of the expenditure;
of the 1180,000,000 which during Hie
next five years will be spent for pub-
lands. The solution of the road pro-
I I 111 111 illltlilll.il tlu as Inn St... u.l..ll.
I ""- wviiiiiiiH ssi-iw wig Villi mJIUimii
A. W. Trow, President of Ontario Commercial Club,
Who Declares That Beneficial Results of Vote for
Warmsprings Bonds Can Hardly Be Measured.
fONKLHTINf. OAME LAWS
MAY PI'KMHH I Hoi 111 I
TO
HOY I.VMI llliiM lllltlll
P. J. Oallagher returned last Sat-
waa known, urday from a Ions trio throuaii cen-
"It means that nearly 40,000 aire. Ir.i rr.-r.n whirl. .,.,.- i.i... i.,... .i,..
of land have now a complete ,.,., r.u.w valley and Denlo country Hla'",' ft 8e,t6mber wh" l M'
right It mean, that the water which ,rp was made primarily for the pur- """ "' P'a0e ,h' M,n,D d' '
hitherto has every year run. useless puse of looking after the interests of."0" " elobr '
to the sea, yea worse than -iseless, i, clients In regard to aeveral water! '" or(,er ,0 "" straight on the mat
whlch has destroyed the banks and I suits that are pending In the Harney """ " ' understood that some of the
wasted property will now be atored county courts but he had time to ''"' sportsmen are contemplating
to be spread on lands now barren and look around and slxe up the general ek'n' decision from the federal
Local sportsmen are in a quandry , At the hospital Saturday local sur
over the conflict between the federal 'geons performed an operation which
and Oregon laws governing the shoot- gave relief to the four year old son
Ing of migratory birds. The Oregon of Mr. and Mrs. Harry Colley. The
laws permit the shooting of these gritty little chap, who prior to hla
birth, had suffered from a broken
serve to raise abundant crops.
I situation In the Inlaud Empire.
Tithe most Important forward "Harney county Is perhans in a bet-
step that has been taken for Malheur ter condition thla year than It has
valley In years." said Attorney J. W been In many years past, certainly in
Met ullocn. And this sentiment,
variously expressed was heard every
where on Wednesday. "
The Warmsprings project, which
lias been declared the best In the
and atate authorities and In the mean
time are going to avoid trouble by
staying out of the field.
West from every view point Mill con
aerve the spring flow of the Malheur
rler liy Mm building of a dam MfftM
lli.' tiiiuit Ii of the canyon four tulles
from Kiverside. The opening Is hut Mr t'lerf is building a fine rock
300 fitt wide ami the dam will lie burn cm the site of the huge struc
uliout II fill In height When coin-'lure tha' was burned lust fall
pleted the storage will cover l,M4 I he lute Bnow In the Bteen moun-
acrea ..r tba Pad fie Lin Stock eon tains have kent tha . mil
....
Doner snspe than In any year since J. II. Jeuklns, the sheepman of
I have known the country," said Mr. Princeton in Hartley county, was In
Oallagher. "The I" ranch and all Ontario Tuesday In his new Frauk
of Ita tributary ranches will cut lln car. His family accompanied
enormous hay and grain crops, as him.
will all of the Harney valley ranches. I
Prank Clerf, on the Alvord ranch
will harvest 4000 tons of fine hay,
as well as a lot of grain and alfalfa.'
ankle which resulted In a turned foot,
underwent an operation by which the
inured member waa re-broken and
the foot straightened.
The little fellow came thru the or
deal In good ahape and he will now
lie able to use the foot and enjoy life
with his playmates an evidence of the
advanced surgical science
occupied the time and attention ' Ho roads In the states having puhllo
of the public more than they do
today. He urged the deeper con
sideration of life's realities. of drainage problems the engineers
who visited Ontario this week will
consider all the needs of this region.
Want Malheur to He Model.
Messrs. Portier and Sloan are not
alone Interested In gathering data
for their report on the local drain
age situation, but they want the pre
liminary work so performed that
when the district la finally complet
ed It will be a model for the entire
SEE JOYS DEPART
Vacation Days Coming to state of Oregon
Close 1916 17 School Term In speaking of their work In solv-
to Start Sentflmbftr 4 ln tno IMMmm of the ir-
1 .I..I.J H.UK. .. . !.. .- .
.i-u idiiuui ui mo vvvsi lo uie
Argus, Mr Portier, tuid.
Course in Music Added.
Miss Kuby Waldron, who was op
erated upon at the hospital recently
is convalscing and will soon be able
to return to her home.
Spent But Four Bits In
Repairs In 2000 Mile Trip
I ) ; 1 1 1 ' ranch In a
thus furnishing
witter for the entire valley during
the crop growing season.
Cost Not i.i.-.n
The first step toward the comple
tion of the work will be the sale of
the bonds. It Is understood that of
fers have already been made for the
bonds. This is due to the fact that
the cost of the work is not great in
proportion to the value of the land,
lentil of 87 feet, g 1 . i . ..r. lurnisliiuK an abundance
To A. It Arnold of this city be
longs the high honors for low cost
alum, Ian.. f of wtUer ror ,.lt.ry I)liruoHe , ilt) touring trips. Mr Arnold accom
laVlBI M'liiiesula all. I Nnrlh Da
kola we hud nuine hard going on uc
count of tilt) mud, tho otherwise the
muds were good. In Montana we
i.iund tho highways fine, as we did
thru t tie Dud I.aiuls of North Hakn
"We, Mr. Sloan, and I, have Just
I'll III II lfl 14 1 nil III . '.tut lav r i,in .. .
Tt. . --si . .-. I -w-g,.-.-, ... ... .......l.w g .w-i
. ..- ... .... .- u7. ,r .. TOy ulM) dtalrlcl mMeU ,ncudui( 8i000
and girls of Ontari.d vicinity. Af creil oll ,he nort ,lde of lh8 Uolt
ter three months of Joyful sport the river dbwirMMsaMteii, of ('aid
youth of the community will have ! wu". -here the problem in h..nieli.
to go back to school. Swimming l,,,"'r t0 lh,t ln M'hur county.
and fishing will be but memories ror "'" UM ,,ve J'er" Mr '""
lias been In charge of the work la
the Twin Palls district, and due to
his work, which 1 must coimn. ml
very highly the problem has been
solved. There u vast areu of irri
gated laud was threatened with de
struction hy ground water. Mr.
Sloan and his anoclatea have recent
ly solved Ihe problem by drilling
wells Into the lava rock ami liberat
ing large quantitieH of water
"lleslde getting rid of ihe .Ictrue-
in the season Harney county farm- panled by Mrs Arnold and their 18
ers and ranchers will greet the new months old son, Russell, arrived in
railroad witn an overwhelming ton- Ontario Monday from Thief Kiver ta. The most unpleasant roads we
nage In the way of live stock, wool KUj Minnesota, in their uew car and Mruck, aside from the bad going in
and grain shipments, the country is aeHplle ,(ie fact that the Journey was WyomiM. wn IM dMt deep roads
prosperous which means that they 1934 mlleg long ,he ,,, of rep.,rh 1(iaho. Of sou were good
will be heavy buyers of outside goods, WM only flfty cenU Md had ,, aol roBd9 ln ,daho ,00 after ie , dl4),H
giving the railroad work both ways. iMeB kuowu to be a tourist the bill In Montana the hot plains were more
jusi at present mere is a nine
uncertainty about the future plans of,
and also because of the nature of the, the railroad people, but the one great
ground the work can easily be done I problem Is solved, there is steel in
The dam which will be built first the valley, and this great wealth pro-
will require an expenditure of about
(360,000, while the bonds authoriz
ed on Tuesday a total of 1760,000.
The balance will be used for the en
largement of present laterals and the
building of laterals to hitherto un
cultivated lands.
The plana for this work have al
ready been made after extenaive sur
veys by botli state and national gov
ernment engineers. Thesa surveys
were most exhaustive and the speci
fications were so fully worked out
that detail costs per acre were made
One of the facts most dwelt upon
by the engineers was the easy ineth-
would have been but two bits.
noticeable.
On the long Jaunt from the north- "The only stop we made for re
ern Minesota city Mr. Arnold expert- palra was that to replace a hub cap
eneed all kinds of roads, most good, Tills cap should have cost us but two
some fair and about B0 miles of bad bits, but the garage highwayman saw
(Continued on page two)
Hiir.lii' ari In f nn n . I Inn -Ilk ttt.
, . road between the entrance to Yellow- by our Minnesota license that we were
outside world and markeln lrrigs .. .,,..
stone Park and Oody, W -lag. ;ioartst and doub ed the price so we
nun. ax(i iui inci uwidiuuuidui mill
follow fast. The oll altuation will
,., . ri.-r..,in-H -nrt .hnniH in. snd during all that time they slept
. ... m .. ..i In their tent and camoed out ln Dio-.trlD ot nearly 2,000 miles
iyi uuiuioi o iiii inv iv w in. auir -
clpate, the future of Central Oregon need '"on, enjoying very minute
will rival that of the richest sections ot tne d,'r
of the United States." . "Had we not endeavored to see ev- ,n trouble Some of the big
Mr. Oallagher la an ardent booster erythlng worth while," aald Mr Arn- c8" were ln -ua UP over the hubs,
for Harney valley, and is banking old Tueaday, "we could have come on waa so deep in a hole that the
-.is JtdaH by launching another thru ln ten days or two weeks, but uisgneto was Hooded and It took
newspaper blant at the braad mtg.wt were not ln a hurry so took in the nearly a day to dry it out after they
town of Crane. His paper, the Crane park and othe points of Interest. hua u hauled to a garage and applied
American, will keep the outside The trip from the park to Cody, 60
While the trip occupied three weeks "f "ut rour " "" i"1 "
nils I believe is some record for a
"Coming down from the Yellow
stone in Cody we found all kinds of
an electric fan for hours.
world well Informed of the oppor- miles Is equal ln many respects to the i Mr. and Mrs. Arnold will be in
tunlties and developments
surrounding country.
of the Park itself. Tho the roads there town for some time before going out
were bad It is a trip worth taking. I to their ranch west of the city.
while the prosaic pastime of per
suing "readin' ". "ritln1 " and
rlthmellc' ", will occupy their at
tlon.
The board or dlrectora of school
district No 8, have decided to open
the schools on September 4th for the
1916-17 term. It Is the belief of
those In charge of the schools (hut
there will he a large increase in the
attendance of high school student.
It Is to be hoped that the boys und,,,v" WH"r ll""'1' 'M -" '
girls expecting to attend high Mhool '''' Thy ls l''"'""h.ih inn- k
will make urrttiiK''ii.enis in coiMi,,. i,. ' " r"" -M lesa
fir-l day ..f the Trst week, "'""'' 'll"'"l ll"- winter DtOBl
for it l liupu-ihl.. f,,i ii ' "' IrrlKath.n chano
laler in eier hecnne us efficient I ! ' '1 dtrecl
Mill. I were Ihcy In I ...-in with purchased Iheir hhii iliillii,.- uiitflts
the opening Of '.chnol and .lull wells l.ir ll. ranehsi .1
ll.e unturio high gggtnol Ua U M '"M '"
viuhle reuutation anion, the sehool l,ll,Ml ",,ls ""' "1" ,l"' "'
uf tlie state. It
business ootm,
emu e ami general science i
besides the usual studios curried in
curries a regular " '" "' i-S)rli uuriiiK me winter
, ,. and prevent logging. The whole re
sult Is a very fine piece of work
"Mr Sh.,in e. i. -Main, an. I I con
the high school curriculum Ail.le.l nr with him in his Judgment, that
to the work of lust year will be a
course in music lleeides this a reg
ular line of work is carried on In
pedagogy or teachers' training class.
One thing to the credit of the Ontario
high schoel: Kvery member of the
class of 1816 has found honorable
the people of Malheur county should
go ahead with drainage plans as fast
us they can.
A Klghl and Wrong Way.
"Of course in every such work
there is a right and a wroug way la
which to Droceed. The thins for the
employment. In fact, one of the pecp, , .. COUIl(y lo do
strong features of the graduates of to ,V(j(d te ,,,., of ,...
the Ontario high school is thst It I ..- no oUucle
haa never turned out a professional , lhe Malheur dutrlc, The OB,
'""'' ' thing to do is to see to It that the
The faculty members for the com- necessary preliminary aurveya ure
ing year are: 'made. Including the location of the
L. L. Culbertson, mathematics and water table, that is the first step
history; Mame Berge, language and "The secoud step is lo mak care
music; Everett Trousdale, science; fu pttUS lucluding slxe of drains,
L. O. Davis, English; l.eona Hader, gr,de aud locution In addition at
domestic science; I). A. Hiles, busl- a still later stage comes the tile. . in
ness; E. O. Bailey, ..dugogy. j.. i.-nt uu.l reliublo contruclors aud
' finally the actual construction.
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Mitchel of Bro-I "The cost of such service in dm
gan are rejoicing over the arrival of I Malheur district will be from $10 to
a son, who was born to them on Wed 1
nesduy at the Holy Hosary hospital. ril'ontliiped on pugu three)
