- ( 1 f
Jstm.
Generally fi
Generally fair to-day and to-morrow;
IT SHINES FOR ALL
not much change in temperature.
Higheit temperature yeiterday, 77; lowest, 67.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 7.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 352.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, AUGUST 17, 1916. Copyrtpaf, 1918, fcy fhe Sun I'rtnttng and Publiihtng Allocation.
ONE CENT
In Greater New Yerk, 1 Elsewhere
.terser 1H and Nenark. I TWO t'KNTS.
ALLIES CAPTURE
3 MILE FRONT
ON THE SOME
Hnlliant Combined Attack
Makes Great Gains on
Tli ree Sudors.
TOWN OF C031BLES
IS NOW THREATENED
Infantry in Bayonet Charge
I'p Hill Gets Hundreds
of Prisoners.
DASH FORWARD UNDER
THE ARTILLERY FIRE
French Also Win Big Vic
tory South of Belloy-cn-Santerre.
Pains, Aug. 16. French nnd British
troops In a. combined forward move
ment took Herman trenches totalling
three miles In length and In one place
a third of u mllo in depth on the
Sommc front to-day. In impetuous
hajonrt charges the allied infantry
captured hundreds of German pris
oners. The gains made by the Allies In this
fighting arc the most Important made
on the French front In weeks. They
practically assure the occupation of
Maurepas, where the French already
have a foothold; seriously threulen the
town of t'ombles and put the French
nearer the village or Uerny, to the
south.
To-day's offensive was marked by the
not Intense Hinting that has been re
ported recently. The artillery prepara
tion was- tremendous In force, whole
lines nf guns, not batteries alone, being
concentrated upon the trenches to be
taken.
Bayonet, Bomb, niHe,
Both British and French had to make
tMr Hdvance uphill, but the Infantry
sliack was brilliantly and rapidly con
ducted, nnd almost befijre the Germans
In tin- trenches had got the dirt from
hell explosions out of their eyes and
knew the artillery had stopped the In
fantry was among them with bayonet
and bomb and rltle fire, while the French
artillery, sweeping the ground a little
further behind the trenches, shut ott
nil aid.
The French made the greater gains
In the combined assault. North of
Maurepas, the outskirts of which they
now hold, they and the British worked t)on of ,ne unrcstrlctcd submarine cam
together. These troops took an entire , reBardle of the United States.
Herman line of trenches on a front of spenklng of the present hot con
almost exactly a mile. At some points
this trench line reached as far as the
load from Maurepas north lu llullle-
mont. This advance Is a distinct gain
for the Allies, as It brings them within
striking jdlttancc of Combles.
llrllllant Trench Attack.
fouth of Maurepas the attack was
made entirely by the Frcnc'n. Thcro tlu
aim was to occupy all the German posi
tions between the former French flout
tnd the road from Maurepas south to
fiery. It -succeeded completely, cleaning
out the Germans all along1 a front ot a
mile and u quarter and u third of a mllo
bad;.
Tli French assault was a lightning
HVe dash, and took the Germans o un-as-ares
that a great many prisoners were
taken. The number of these cannot even
be estimated as yet.
The gains put the British and French
little loss than two miles from Combles.
lhe lallroad town and the Junction of
l.e roads toward which they he.ve been
drhimr for some time. It Is uphlil
ground to the town nnd there will be
inore desecrate fighting, but to-day's
salno make the taking of Combles only
a question of time.
The two gains on either side of Maure
t9 nuk; it piactlcally certain that thJ
Hermans In that vlllago will be forced
eltlier to withdraw und yield It to th
I'rcn. h or v.'lll be surrounded In tli"
town. The French won their way to tin
fuburln of Maurepas a few days aio,
-n Victory In the Sooth.
Wluls theso Important gains were
beltitr made to the north of tho Somino
lilvir ,iu equally valiant dash by French
tnfa t y after two days artllleiy tire
ealned ,( particularly powerful German
lent! labyrinth In a region where ac
tion ,ii Inlheito been slower.
Hot 'a of Helloy-en-M.intcrrt;, almost
fie s' it iern end of tho Homme front,
1 Trench crossed the road running
f nu Veimandovlllers to I'etonne and
took i nches three-quarters of a mile
long j ere they captured sixty prison
n a sjstetn of tteliclus that the of
""'.il despatches report us "powerfully
tan. red "
T advance was In the direction of
Hen, Kouliivvest of I'eronne,
ft mght there was more artillery
'i"e n about Verdun, with violent
liri I'littits at Thlaumont. Fleury,
ui ii ml flhapltie. There was no ac
ton i .un here on tho front.
G I : It MANS HOLD LINE.
""'(.lino drill. h In Homme Attack,
Hi-port I'riini Teuton Side.
fv tiik Scimmk Khont, via Berlin and
f;' Aug. 1. Half a million Brit
'a I no. been engiik'ed ill tho effort to
''. the tinman lines on the Sonims
' ,M Ufteii, as In the fighting between
'rt-nineiourt and llcbuterne, the Brlllsn
' 'Mi ii meieii tin. Germans six to one.
They ,,L. kilned ground to u depth of
' r"'' I tlx miles over a front of about
Kb' miles, but have nowhere been
j bleak- through.
At pr em ,, the lighting by the Brit
'ii ii iirrled on from their l'oslres
jJilein, where their drum fire la unceas-i-'e
day or night, ijeimau olllcers win
"f In the Champagne offensive said no
Continued on TMr4 ftf.
HIGH GERMAN OFFICIAL SEES
NO HOPE OF AN
"We May Not Dictate the Terms," He Says, "but No
One Shall Dictate Them to Us A Sheer
Impossibility to Beat Us."
Jsedof Cablt DltpaieS to Tni Svn.
London, Auk. 1. The. Hern corre
spondent ot tho london Daily New
ascribes to the aamo "eminent neutral"
whom he quoted jesterday the narration
of a conversation lie had with a promi
nent official of tho Uerman Foreign Of
fice. The neutral aaked how the official
class, those behind the scenes, regarded
the situation. Tho official replied care
fully :
"The situation la not brilliant, but
certainly not bad. We, cannot be beaten,
and the chances of wlnnln-r are still fa
vorable. We obvloualy have had some
disillusionment. We thought we could
crush Huropc In three months, and we
ciimc ery near doing It.
"There have been miscalculation!
diplomatic miscalculations. There have
been military errors alo. but the situ
ation to-day s not unsatisfactory. It Is
n xheer tihvslcnl Impossibility to brat us.
Mind you, I do not say we are going to
LARGER SUBMARINE
BOATS ARE COMING
New German Commerce Car
riers Make Trial Trips One
Met in Midoeean.
Two new German merchant sub
marines, of slie even larger than the
Deutschland and Bremen, will leave Ger
many soon for this country with cargoes.
This report comes here from London,
quoting a Central News Agency despatch
from The Hague. The same despatch
says the new merchant submarines have
made trial trips off Helgoland, the Ger
man naval base.
(.'apt. Olsen of the Norwegian steam
ship Alf, which arrived at Norfolk yes
terday, oays he saw a submarine In the
middle of the Atlantic Ocean on August
5. Capt. Olsen, who made a report to
the hydrographlc office at Norfolk, said
he passed the undersea boat In the lnne
from .Norfolk to the mouth ot 11 of Kfiil
Ush Cirnnnel. The Deutschland left the
Virginia Capes from Norfolk on the night
of August '-. but hardly could have
reached the position Capt. Olsen reports
by August 5.
A despatch from Berlin to the I i nlted
Prera yesterday said the Deutschland
had not been heard from since she
cleared the Virginia Capes fourtesn days
ago. However. It took her sixteen daya
to cross the Atlantic when she came here
and her return trip probably would take
longer, It was said, as allied crullers
knew she was on her way back and
wculd look out for her.
There Is still no word of the Bremen,
which Is many days overdue.
NEW U BOAT WAR URGED
llrlrhetnsr Conservative Leader
Would ItlaL War With I'. B.
Special Vallt Ottpateh to Tils Sc.
Beu.s, Aus. 15. Herr von Heyde
brand. Conservative leader In the Ger
man Helehstag, In n speech at Frank-
ii,.,hu .twit,., .tmnffK for a resuniD-
troversy on the subject Herr von iiey-
.lehmnd said the whole matter de
I nded upon whether Germany was will
ing to accept war with the United
Mates. He argued that all of (b't
many's enemies are held together ngnlnst
I er by England and that the only means
f ending the war was by starving
England. ,,
This, he declared, could be done easily
and quickly by a ruthless submarine
-,mpalgn against vessels of all kinds.
It Is understood here mat me uonn
tlves are convinced they could starve
the Allies out and end the war In this
way before the United Htatea could In
terfere. If victorious Germany could
disregard the United States.
Other despatches emphasise the In
creased popular agitation for a ruth
less campaign by submarines and Zep.
pllns against Ungland. Following the
publication of the White Book in the
lliiiilong case many newspapers are ad
vocating such a campaign.
SERVANT WILLS TO EMPLOYER.
Leave. Ir. Haruch 10,000, Her
Sarins In : Ycara of errlee.
When the will of Lina Matherny, a
servant In the household of Dr. Emanuel
Baruch of 57 East Seventy-seventh
street, was tiled yesterday It was found
she had left the savlnia of thirty years
to her employer. Miss Matherny had
put aside 10,000 In the years spent In
Dr. Dariieh's service. .....
An odd memorandum attached to tne
will attracted attention In the Burro
gate's Court. Miss Matherny requested
the authorities to prevent any one from
breaking the will. As tho Instrument
wns drawn up In legal form there Is
little likelihood that a fight could be
waged successfully against the will.
GERMAN FOOD FRAUD EXPOSED,
Wn. Piurr Bureau Finds Uflrlala
nnd Hallroad 3Ivn Involved.
TilR llAUL-n, via London, Aug, 16.
The new German War Usury Bureau
has Justified Its exjstence by uncovering
widely ramltied food fraude, according
to reports received here. The frauds
are said to Involve a half dozen leaders
nnd 100 accomplices, who smuggled hun
dreds of tons of whest,.rye nnd bar
ley flour from the Province of West
Piussla to Berlin, where It was sold at
,. ,,rnil! of 300 per cent.
The Hour was concealed from Gov
ernment stock takers by shipping It
on night traliw as potatoes or ma
chinery. Among tho men Involved were
Government oIIIcIuIm and blatlon masters.
SAVED BY DAUGHTER, DIES.
Father Succumbs on Beach- After
Ileitis Hauled from Water.
i.,i, Homers. 4H. of 148 East Fifty
.treet. was pelxed with cramps
last evening while bathing with his four
..Mi.iren at South Beach. He was
.lruutrfl (lilt O f the surf by his thirteen
year-old uaugnier Agnes, wun mo mu
of stronger hands.
virnt bM was applied on the beach,
but beforo Dr. Folks arrived with an-
ambulance from ma awaun iimmw
Hospital SOfBtri died.
EARLY PEACE
dictate peace In Paris, or even going to
dictate peace at all, but I do aay no
one shall dictate pence to us."
The "neutral," who was In Ilerlln In
July, said that while confidence In the
Kalaer remains absolutely unabated and
amounts almost to a cult, on the other
hand the unpopularity of the Crown
Prince has lately reached remarkable
proportions. The working classes par
ticularly are bitter against lilm, and
firmly Believe tho failure to take Ver
dun was due to his blunders. They
blame hla egotism for the unavailing sac
rifice, of more than 200,000 Herman sol
dier.
Amor these same working clAsses the
desire for' peace fs' Widespread, but there
li no Indication of any revolutionary
tendency which might compel the govern
ing classes to make peace. The com
mercial and professional classes share
these peace sentiments. Allied threats
of an economic war are described as n
bluff.
GERMANY VIOLATING
HER U BOAT PLEDGE
Secretary Lansing Says Amer
ican Was on Ship Torpedoed
Without Warning.
Washington. Aug. Id. German sub
marines operating against merchant
ships In one Instance have violated the
pledge which the German Government
made to the United States with regard
to submarine warfare. Secretary I.an-(Iegcd counterfeiters, swooped down on a
sing said to-day that Americans were on store In a tenement at iZl Past Ninth
board one of the passengers ships tor-1 street, Manhattan '
pedoed recently without warning. What Capt. Henry gathered In alx men n
action If any this Government will take1 of Italian birth, four of whom J.,. , ..t
Uei?i 2 !.".'"-. . .... , .
..I .......v.- .. i. .1.
..w I"-." . till till 1 HW. .'V V I , , I. i - I
(l.M MWII- MM, 1,1 I'll ,111 me U .,ln
torpedoed by Getman submarines. Amer
Icon Consuls have been instructed
cable details and particular effort
been made to ascertain whether Oer
many was really living up to the prom
ise not to torpedo passenger ships with
out warning.
The reports coming to the State De
partment 'seem to Indicate that Germany
la not particularly solicitous about ad-
ner,nr to lhe ,,romlre made to President
WIIon
T4 Merchantmen sank In Jnlr.
BgRMN (via London), Aug. 18. An
official statement Issued here to-day says
that during July seventy-four merchant
men belonging to the Entente Allies were
sunk by German and Austrian sub
marines and mines. The ships had a
total tonnage of 101,000 tons.
FRIENDLY TO U. S.
Bavarians Approve I'lan to Avoid
Isaac on ftnhmarlne War,
Paris, Aug. 1. A despatch to the
Havas Agency from Geneva says:
"Heports received here from Bavaria
Indicate that there has been strong ap
proval of the recent action of the For
eign Affairs Committee of the Imperial
Bundesrath In approving the Chancel
lor's -action lr avoiding a submarine
Issue with the United States.
"The meetings of the Foreign Affairs
Committee were presided over by Count
von Ilartllng, president of the Bavarian
Council, whose olllclal organ, the Prr
tilerrs .Vonveles dc .Munich, says sub
marine warfare Is not Justified when It
places Important political considerations
In Jeopardy.
"The action of the Bundesrath's com
mittee was a defeat for Admiral von
Tlrpltz and his partisans upholding sub-
marine warfare."
SING SING CONVICT ESCAPES.
GraboTfSfl, Life Term Man, Gone
Hiding; Inside, Says Osborne.
OssiNINO, N. Y.. Aug. 16. Another
life term convict escaped from Sing Hlng
prison to-night. He Is Frank Orabowsal.
28, who was employed as a janitor anu
porter In the print shop.
Warden Osborne, however. Is of the
belief that the man Is a stowaway In
side the walls waiting for a chance to
get away, and so did not order the
whlstte blown as Is customary.
Grabowsal said he was III this morn
ing nnd went to the hospital. Later he
reappeared. At the noon roll call he
was there, but was' missed to-night after
the C o'clock call. Ho curie here on
December' IS, 1014, and had served
nearly two years of tho twenty now
allotted for life sentences.
N. Y. FLIER KILLS 5 IN MOTOR.
Central's UOth Century Plouarhs
Into Automobile on Track.
El.TRU, Ohio, Aug. 16. The New
York Central Twentieth Century Limited
crasher) Into an automobile to-night at
Chestnut street crossing, in tne down
town section, killing four women and a
man.
The dead are Mrs. C. II. Buttenbender,
65; Mrs. J. F. F.mmert, 60 ; Mrs. J, C,
Conaway, 5i ; Mrs. J. K. Weiss, 50 ;
Capt; C. H. Buttenbender, is.
According to witnesses the crossing
gates were not down, and rrelght car
standing on sidings obscured the view so
that Capt. Buttenbender, who vvna driv
ing, did not see the train approach. The
auto was struck squarely lu the side and
tossed Into a tangled mass.
CORPORAL SLAIN; GIRL SHOT.
Holdlrr, Hepolsed by Keslrnn Miss,
Kills Man Who Interferes.
Brownsville, Tax., Aug. 16. corporal
James Clement, Company C Heeond Vir
ginia Regiment, waa shot and Instantly
killed to-night and Sophia Valdex, u
Mexican girl, was probably fatally
wounded by another corporal, who gnvr
his name ns Dumrhes. Dumches eluded
a poasa and escaped, hut later appeared
nt the county Jail and surrendered,
Corporal Clement, who was 28 years
old and married, came from Warren
town, Va.
The girl had repulsed Dumchen's ad
vances, and when, threatened with vio
lence, it Is said, called for nsslstancr
Am Corporal Clement appearel to aid
the girl, It Is charged Dumches shot her
twice and. turned hie weapon on Cleiwnt;
killing htm Instantly with two bullets In
tot breast.
RAIDS NIP GIGANTIC
COUNTERFEIT PLOT
New York Band Heady to
Flood Country With $1,000,
""ODOJn Spurious Bills. '
ETCHED PLATES SEIZED
Photo Engraving mid Print
ing Plant Set Up in Frame
Cottage in Grant' City.
William J. Flynn. chief of the United
Mates Secret Service, leading several
of his agents, climbed to the garret of
a neat frame cottage at Washington and
Hallroad avenues. Grant City, Hlchmond
Borough, at 9 o'clock yesterday morning.
He found llthogr.it-i!ilng presses, chem
icals, a photo engraving plant and all the
other (essentials of a complete plant fpr
maklrr; counterfeit money.
The big, swarthy man, Antonio Monte
fortl, expert engraer and etcher, who
was at work, was arrested, along with
I. ulgl Barracato, who was proudly sur
veying a big prei that had been moved
recently Into the ground floor.
Thus a plot to flood the country with
II. 000.000 In counterfeit II. II, $5 and
110 hills was uncovered Just, before the
leaders were ready to print and aend
them out to middlemen. Tho scheme
wan the biggest and most elaborate that
has been unearthed In many years, nnd
the arrests were made and the para
phernalia seized beforo one bill had been
printed.
Another Raid lu Manhattan.
Within a few minutes after Chief
Flynn entered the houe Capt. John
Henry, who lias chapje of the New York
Secret Service men. and under ttie chiefs
direction has been i!in,ln.ln,. .1,.
S?..f?'rf!. f counterfeiting by Chief
, i. iiii, Wn 1. I IN TM.ft ntv....
.. wrie v
other liquors by means of alcohol and
cnemicaw, the mixtures llng put In
uumes wun counterfeit labels.
Capt. Flynn was much pleased with
the outcome of tno raids, for he had
nipped a soheme that had been worked
out with the utmost detail. According
to the evidence obtained the plan of
the big enterprise was to make enough
plates so that 11.000,000 of the nous
could be printed within a ahort time.
The next step contemplated. Flynn waa
Informed, was to destroy ths entire
counterfeiting equipment and dispose of
the bills at the rate of 35 cents on the
dollar, realising about $250,000.
linn Obtained In March.
The plan was under development for
more than a year and sever.il men had
been devoting their time exclusively to
mat worn. i;ianorate as waa the en-
i'ur or vioiatlnr the tntern.i r.v.m.. ."'" '. " .
laws, m the basemen. f ih. i. ... TAl1"" nothing oenmie ruts wen none
to Fast Ninth street men i... r T "o perhaps notning win come oui 01
has eared . "m"' i, ,,.u"d j"'A the suggestion. He believes, however.
. ;.k.;i . ,.7? " 1 that such a plan has much In It to
graving and printing scheme, the project for the year. The economic consumer
of floating the counterfeit bills silver naturally would conserve her milk dur
certificates. Indian live dollar bills and I lng the period of highest prices,
Buffalo ien dollar notes was more In
genious. Tho leaders, it Is said, had Satisfactory to All.
arranged for a practical underwriting! M, ,,,,i, ..... h. ,. ,,., ,h.f
of their supply by a group of twenty
middlemen, who were to peddle them out 1
at 45 cents on the dollar 'o the men .
utin n-m,!,l .etltaltc .. .V,.,, , ,1,.
who would actually pas, them to th.',
n 1 .,. k. i ., I help to work out problems th.it now con-
There was not a flaw In the smooth I front aIld ,Iturb the drlbuter.
scheme-except one. namely, that two ,n H tfctllt UUfr t0 Mr, Juan
of the conspirator, were oveiheard dls-1 n,atll, president of the National House
cussing n phase of It one i night In an wves League. Wlllet H. Vary of Water
Italian cafe. That was In March. Alien town, past master of the New York
Chief Flynn gut word of the plot he and state Grange, said that during 1913 dls
Capt. Henry began a most skilful and trlbuters In New Tork paid producers
ingenious system of shadowing by which
tl ey were led first to the store In Fast
Ninth street and then to tho frame house
In Grant City.
The purchases of at least fifty different
eorls of chemicals used In photo engrav -
lng. the eleetrotyilng process and In the
making nf the finest Inks, all were care -
fully noted. The moving of n big Pnl-
versal hand press from a store In Man
hattan to Grant City was followed.
Nearly Heady for Work,
Flynn called to this city trained agents
from St. Louis, Cincinnati, Cleveland,
Washington. Philadelphia, Pittsburg and
Scranton. With seven men, Including
Agent Frank Burke, Flynn went to
Grant City early yesterday. They waited
until Mnntefortl. the ablest man In th:
group, had entered the cottage In Hall
road avenue, Then they made a quick
descent.
Investigation showed that the garret
had been divided Into four parts. Ono
was n photographing room, another was
a drying room, another a room for
making the copper plates, All the neces
sary tools vers on hand, the outfit hav
ing cost at least 12.000. At least fifty
negatives of United States bills, ranging
from tl to 110, were found. Home had
been transferred to a gelatine plate, then
to a wax plate, and from that wax
plate copper plates were being made for
printing the notes. Montefortl was
found busy with etching tools working
on the figure 5 on the 15 copper plate.
Paper Heady for Printing.
The conspirators had purchased vnrl
ous grades of the finest onion skin paper.
Their scheme. It Is said, was tn print
the front and the back part of thn bill
on different sheets anil then paste the
two parts together niter having scat-
tered silk threads between
The raid lu Fast Ninth street pro-
duced surprises for the secret service
men. as the presence of n plant for the
making of liquors by the synthetic proc
ess waa not known to them before they
entered.
At the Manhattan rendezvous the se
cret service men arrested Halvato're
Glodano and Antonio Glodano, brothers;
Antonio Matrangn and Antonio Barra
cato, u brother of tho Barracato ar
lested In Grant City. They were nil
held lu connection with the counterfeit
lag charge. Two other men arrested,
Giovanni Glenchl and Leo Bsttaglla,
were arrested on a charge of violating
the Internal revenue laws.
ARMS MEN VOTE TO STRIKE.
Machinists at Winchester Plant
Demand Klgbt Hour Day.
Nkw Havrn, Conn.. Aug. 16. Machin
ists emploved at the Winchester Hepeat
Ing Arms Company here to-night voted
to strike to-morrow noon unless the
company agrees to grant an eight hour
day and other concessions.
It Is expected that If the machinists
walk out members of, all metal trades, or
ganisations at tha plant will alio strike,
invoivineT iv,eve
MILK PROFITS ONLY
2.6 HILLS ON QUART
Borden Company Gives Fig
ures to Hcfutc Story of
Big Surplus.
NEW PLAN IS SUGGESTED
Several Different Hates h Year
Would Save Situation, One
Company Asserts.
If. N. Hallock, vice-president of Bor
den's Condensed Milk Company, made
public yesterday afternoon figures show-
thnl ,h nront " his company on
all the different grades of milk and milk
pioducta. excepting certified milk, which
It distributed during the fiscal year
ended June 30 was 1.0026 per quart.
The costs to the company for the en
tire year, as worked out by Its ex
pert accountants with a quart as the
unit, were as follows :
Cost per quart (what farmer got) .. .0361
K.rlBry roit 0121
Freight to city 001!
Cost of delivery, overhead chargei,
&c o:o:
Total cnt to company
Selling price 07H
rroflt, per quart oo:
Mr. Hallock says that the company
ill.trlbutes at a loss from September un-
ill February, while from February un-tor
til June It makes all Its profits for the
:'ear. He has suggested a plan whereby
different rates be charged for milk dur
ing three periods of the year, which he
relieves would prove satisfactory to the
producer and to the consumer.
Kvens t'p In n Year.
He realizes, SHys Mr. Hallock, that It
ir.lght take some time for the housewife
to get accustomed to the change, but In
the end he feels she would not mind
It. as the average price for the year
would not be any greater than the flat
inte she Is now paying all the year
around whether milk Is plentiful or
trarce. He has been talking up with
C'strlbuters. and producers his Idea of a
commend It for rer'.oy? conldrtlon on
the part of the milk distributers, pro
ducers and the consuming public.
Thus during the months of the great
est supply of milk Mr. Hallock would
pay producers a certain price, the small
est of the year, and would charge the
consumers si correspondingly reduced
price. This would come at a time In
the spring" and summer when milk Is
looked upon as one of the healthiest of
diets, and the reduced price, he believes,
would have a tendency to Increase con
sumption and thus use up In a great
part at least of what Is then a milk
surplus.
At those seasons when milk become!
scarcer he would pay n higher rate to
the producer and exact a higher price
from the" consumer. During the period
of the greatest scarcity in the winter
time he would have the highest brlce
" ' ,, ,V,, "SCI . .
f ,
"l'u'lif i. m
Hnul" ur "r''
le farmer, and In the end
two cents a quart, later three cents a
quart and still later three and one-half
cents a quart for their product.
it was said at the District Attorney's
' office yesterday that Mr. Swsnn Is still
1 getting together data concerning the
milk situation. I'ntll he completes his
1 Investigation he will not be able to de-
clde just what plan of action he will
taae.
It Is believed that things are ahaplng
up for an announcement by retail milk
dealers In the near future of the Increase
in the price of milk of one cent a quart.
Most of the distributers. Including the
Sheffield Farms and the Borden people,
recently Increased the price of cream
one cent a one-half pint.
WOULD SELL SKIM MILK.
Unlnmen a. It la aa Nutritions
as Ntralcht Goods
STnAcrsn. N. Y.. Aug. 16,-The sal
ration of ths farmer dniryman through
a plan for milk bottling by which pen
pie can buy rklm as well as whole milk
Is foreseen by Albert L. Brockway.
chairman of the special committee of the
Onondaga Dairying Association. He
wants the Wicks Investigating commit
tee to adopt his plan. Mr. Brockway Is
one nf the leading central New York
dairymen.
The idea of selling skim milk for
household use Is a new one among
dairymen, but Mr. Brockway contends
that it Is Just as nutritious as that con
taining muter fat
"People who think that milk fh,t
I shows cream Is the only nutritious kind
are mistaken, lie says. "The butter fat
test Is not the most important test of
food value. Skim milk has nearly all
the protein of the whole milk, nnd Is. for
all practical purposes, as valuable a
food."
Were the sale of skim milk for house
hold use permitted by the State Mr
Brockway believes the farmer would be
assured of greater Income from his
dairy.
The commutes of the dairy association
of which Mr. Brockway Is chairman will
go to Albany when the Wicks commit
tee meets there and present Its case,
At the recent session of the Wicks
cnmmlttee In this city Mr. Brockway mental, Ills plan for settlement Is said
outlined hla plan for selling bottled milk j to have been formulated with the Idea
nnd declared It could be disposed of to mint the proposed commission will ascer
the poor In New York city and else-1 tulit whether It will cost the railroads
where. Ills plan la to be placed before 1 $iou,000,000, as they contend, or 120,
the Common Council of this city In the , 000,000, as the employees assert, to
form of an ordinance this fall. He criti
cises the present looseness of the State
law which reads "milk from which any
part of the cream hag been removed" Is
declared adulterated.
Wlt-ks n Boston,
Boston', Aug. 16, Senator Wicks of
New York arrived hero this morning, and
for more than two hours was In session
with John C. Orcott, secretary of thn
Boston Chamber of Commerce commit
tee in charge of the recent Investigation
and analysis of tlve production, trans
portation, Inspection and distribution oi
milk aa -creeav Its -New Kngland,
5 HOUR DA Y AND NO EXTRA
OVERTIME PAY IS WILSON
PLAN TO AVERT A STRIKE
President To-day Will Ask Managers to
Abandon Arbitration Demand Will
Appoint Commission to Investi
gate' Wage Economy.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 16. After three days labor in a
vain effort to bring about an amicable agreement betwee.t the
railroad managers and the employees, President Wilson, ac
cording to indications to-night, is prepared to lay down a
basis for settlement to-morrow and to use his influence to
enforce its acceptance by the contending parties in the con
troversy. On the main point at issue, the eight hour day, there
has been no yielding on either side. Employees and the man
agers are at opposite poles on this question, as they were
when the struggling battle lines were drawn.
Strike Hinges on New Proposal.
Conf ron toil by this situation tho
I'resltletit apparently tin tleclilwl to
tnkt- tho case Into his own InwiW. It
U exported that lie will submit to
both sides n definite Identical proposl
,, , ,. , .
j ,lon to-morrow. Upon the nrrei.tnnee
rejection of this plan will lccml
whpthor or not a strike 1 to he citllPd
anil tho tninsisirttitloii lines ot the
entire country imnilyztMl.
The plan which the President Is pre
pared to submit calls for:
Acceptance by tho railroad managers
of the eight hour day.
Abandonment by the employees of
their demands for time and one-half
for overtime, nnd the acceptance of
pro rata for overtime.
Abandonment by the railroad man
agers of their contention that tho en
tire controversy be submitted to arbi
tration either by the Board of Media
tion or a board uppolnted by the Presl
dent. Appointment of a commission to In
vestigate the operation of the eight
hour day, to determine Its cost to the
railroads, and to muse recommenda
tions concerning the collateral proh.
lems Involved and tho payment of time
and one-halt for overtime.
May Force Peace.
That this method of solving the prob
lem will prove successful Is not alto
gether a foregone conclusion. It is as
sumed the Iresldent. by the exertion of
tho tremendous Influence of his office, will
maae it serve tho purpose, and thati
wunin a rew days at most the imme
diate crisis will have passed and the con
tinued operation of the railroads been
assured.
Assuming that this will lie the out
come of to-morrow's confe'rence between
the President and the son delegates of
the rallroud emploveea who arrived In
Washington to-night, there Is a thinly
dlsgused ulr of satisfaction among those
who led the fight for the eight hour day.
Although the beads of the brotherhoods
and their associates who rmve been con
ducting the negotiations In the capital
were without authority to accept finally
the proposition, there Is little doubt that
It will find favor with the employees.
The eight hour day s the main point at
issue. The nllter ,1 1 nr nA r
nnrderf u. ni.nr.ii n.i.
The outlook from the point of view of
the managers Is far less encouraging.
Tnere is even a possibility they may re-
Ject the proposition, despite Its origin at
the White House, nnd the general Hs.
sumption that the President Is making
his efforts to avert the catastrophe of a
strike as the representative of the coun
try and the neutrals, slm will be af
fected by It most disastrously.
Managers atlil Hold (Int.
The managers have not abandoned
their contention that Kie eight hour day
will prove economically disastrous to the
railroads and th-t Justice demands the
controversy be settled by arbitration.
Vrnm ,he lntier itolnt of view, thev as
sert, the granting of the demand of the 'managers would not give a decision on
employees for an elKht hour day by the, the President's plan until after they
method proposed Is of more farreachlng 1 hold a meeting following their confet
importance than is represented by the nce with Mr. Wilson,
pending controversy. Sl""t the broiiieriioon leaders who
Once accepted, even In principle, they I I'nve been confenlng with the President,
cou'end, It is futile to expect that It ever It was declared, would be willing to ne
will be abandoned or that any conces- l.otlate all Issues to the controversy ex
slon will be made by the employees If It e'Pt the guaranteed eight hour day.
Is found to be nn economic burden too ! With It assured them beyond all doubt,
great for the railroads to bear. , 't was said, they would be Inclined to
It has tieen the ntsviry ot an wage an -
Justment", they say, that there has never
been any recession nn the part of trie
men, hut the granting of one demand
merely paves the way for another In
! constantly Increasing r-.tlo.
By giving the emp'oyees the elgm hour
das- now In the manner proposed means,
according to the railroad managers, the i
abandonment of th principle of nrbltra-1
tlon nnd the beginning of a new era of '
difficulties nnd wage disputes.
Nevertheless It Is expected the man
agers reluctantly will yield their point,
but at the seme time placn the repons.
blllty for the consequences upon the
President s snoumers. Tnere was no evi
dence that they had changed their pos!
tlon to-night or that they were prepar
ing a counter proposal for submission
to the President.
Manna-era Mis Wilson.
After being continuously In session al!j
day the managers called at the White
llniiu. ttnt frtnml the l'les ileilt Out.
They left a statement or tneir views ue-
signed to show tlw Impracticability nf
the eight hour day, the dlfllcultles In th-
way of putting It Into effect and the tre-
mendous cost it involves. Apparently no
alternative proposal was made lu their
communication. I'p to a late hour to
night no reply to It was forthcoming
from the White House.
It Is understood to be the view of the
President that the granting of the tight
hour day will be lo some extent experl-
maintain un eight hour day and whether
the dlfllcWtlea suggested by the man
agers ran be overcome.
Obviously the same notion of finality
does not prevail at the While House aa
In the conference room of the managers,
the latter holding that tl-.s step once
taken cannot be retraced without a dla
itbtro'us upheaval on all the railroads,
Itepresentatlves of the brotherhoods
scouted the notion of a strike to-night
after having assarted openly When the
White House conferences were begun
that they, were In a position to tie ,up
the traffio of tha entire country. There
were' other- tatlettlOM alto thtt thsy ra
curd the burden of settlement as having
been shifted to the managers, who are
on the defensive.
There was a lull In the conferences
to-day. The President gave his en
tire time to other matters and to re
ceiving visitors. The railroad man
arers were In continuous session behind
locked doors at their hotel from 9
o'clock In the morning until 6 In the
evening and ugaln after dinner. The
tmtiloveeM Mtierit the tt:iv nf letbitre
The 600 delegate.-i arrived from New
York on special trains during the eve-
nlng. They will meet to-morrow before
f.olng to the White House at 3 o'clock. !
where they will be received In the East
Boom. It Is possible the address the
President will make to them will be
made public.
No appointment had been made for ,
the railway managers to see the Presl-,
dent to-morrow. As matters now stand ,
it is expected that thev will be called
In after the trainmen. That they will
yield at once Is doubt ill. It Is prob
able, that they will ask for time to con
iider what might ,be regarded us an
ultimatum and that they will communi
cate with the presidents of the roads
before announcing their fib I decision.
' Mediator Sera Wilson.
The rre!.'r,l completed Ms iUn dur
ing a conference to-day with .ludse
William L. Chambers of the Federal
Board of Mediation nnd Conciliation.
who took to the White House statistics! ,
of a basic eight hour day. immediately j While the adoption of the rc-olut!ons
afterward Judge Chambers talked brief-1 looked ominous the union men alieadv
ly with the managers' committee. He i had bN practically assured bv Piesl
dld not confer with the employees' rep-, . , ,,... ,, ' , ;, '
reentatlves. dcnt T1"0re ' Shouts nf the rail-
The President Is depending largely j ways company of the re (ignition by the
upon public opinion to force a settle- corporation of any employ es' I'nnimlttca
ment. tfhould the present method of that the union might wish to send to him
procedure seem aoouc io inn ii m
bought probable to-day he would take
the public Into his confidence.
Discussion of the creation nf a Fed
eral commission to Investigate the rail
road situation centred largely nro'li.d
the contention of railroad officials that
Mich a comtr.lsilon would hi able to net
at all the facts and be able to prevent
a recurrence of the present crlsle. Th.i
President has tnken up with both sides
suggestions as to the best way to make
up a conmlsslon which vvould be satis
factory. The principal rennn advanced by
'the managers In insisting on urbltiatlon
! w" 'e'r belief tlut the whole prln -
, clPle. of "'hitratlott Is at stake ami
'.',.," , v""r':' "
, ,l,el' recent pc'ltlons for a ., per cent,
Increase In freight rate.. The Interstate
1 "mmerce Commission intimated nt that
llllir 111.1 wui-ii I ninuiiii miii-mi;- KUVi-
vv.ige Increases of their own acton! nnd
without arbitration they must bear the
consequences.
Will Accept I'm Ilata Pay.
During the day the managers' com
mittee had experts at work compiling
"", "', '""" " "
eight hour day. These data they planned
!?j:r?ln,t.,.., U1 !.,.r?Uir.'f,!,"rh.0i'1l
turn ,.,., ,U. ,i 111."
1 "'" ' i,""i.i"ii i"i -iuiun
collateral issues, r-ven iiio proposal ot
pro rata piy for overtime, which would
mean an Increase of from ! to :.1 per
cent, to employees working extra hours,
was said to appeal to them.
COO OFF TO SEE WILSON,
General Chairmen nf Local
Brotherhoods (in to Washington.
Six hundred general i-halimen of the
locals of the railroad brotherhoods de
parted for Washington yesterday In
obedience to President Wilson's request
for a conference with the whole body
of employees' representatives. Beforo
I they left they vero Instructed In part
at a meeting held In Webster Hall,
li,P.. ,h. i-.. ...i,i.o....i u"
'whero they were addressed by W. S.I
Carter, one of the brotherhood chief!
' 11,. did not attempt to dictate their
khiin.. li ..nnllnnil l.ln.uAle ttlln. 1..
n general way the situation as he left
lt on Tuesday night,
y,,,, aectlon of the men went over on
,he am, 0i. , 0H.r OM ,,
.ylvanla. Carter did not a-., with ti.em.
ils deferred his departure until last
night. It was- regarded as significant
that another of thn mediators, G. W, W.
Hanger, started for Washington nn the
Congressional Limited at 3.3il. The only
meaiator now in town is Martin A.
Knapp, the chairman of the board. Ho
would not tell why Hanger had been
summoned, nor would he define the sit
uation as ho understood It through his
communications with his colleague, W.
L. Chambers, who went to the White
House with the first delegation from the
roads and the brotherhoods.
Rattlesnake Kills Taxidermist.
Pittsscro, Aug. 16. Bitten on the
hand when showing a deu of rattle
snakes to a class of students from the
University of Pittsburg yesterday, ous
tav Link, for nineteen years taxidermist
at Carnegie Institute here, died In a ho,
pltal here to-day.
SBBAT BBAB BFBING WATBB.'
Me. tbe esse t aU glass staapereA keltlia,
aaV.
SHONTS MUST
SATISFY UNION
OR FACE STRIKE
Agrees to Meet Orttiiizcd
Carmen To-day for
First Time.
LEADEKS GET POWEK
TO CAhli WALKOUT
Employees nt Exciting
Meeting Insist Dcinniiils
JJo Oranlcd.
COMPANY DENIES
IT MOKE PKOMISKS
Explains Discharged Men
Kept Fares or Otherwise
Broke Laws.
More than 2,000 carmen eiuplo,.e( by
tho New Yoilc HiiIIw.ivm Cuiiii.anv
. , , K uiiw.ih t utnpjiiy
V01etJ unanimously with u nur nnd a
wiivIiik of liats In the Lyceum, at
,.i,,,, . .
'""'J trect and Tlilnl iiveiiur,
Ilist night to call a .suspension nf work
,, ,i, ,,. ., ,., ... , , , .,
11,0 Brcon Cir "'". l" '-vl 1 tho
union committed did not receive satlf-
factory treatment nt n conference with
Oncrul Manager Frank Hiilloy at U
o'clock tlil morning.
Thn men voted tn hark up the mm
niltteo In making demands for iccognl
tlon of tho union on the green car
lines, for tho reinstatement of urg.in
lialk'ti men who ".vers discharged hy
the company and for tho right to havo
access to the officials of tin company
to make, requests for
or to Mr Medley.
That was ,i victory for the men, he.
cause the union leaders had b'en I'-.Mng
for five davs to get i commuter of vv'i.ik
men Into eltlif r I'tisldeut Shout' m Mr,
Hedley's olllce, and, falling to get any
reply had depatrhed no ultimatum on
Tuesday to President Shonls demanding
1 an Immediate reply.
Agree to Meet I'nliin Men.
I Though the rnllwiy otllclaN had pre
I vlously announced they would not iceog
j nine the union and would tieat only with
tnetr employees, while not denying them
the right to organize, it was not until
1 . ,
verbally nn
hat I'ielilent Shouts, both
d by letter, announced h-
would treat with lomnuttees of union
men.
In a letter to Mayor Mltchel and
Chairman Straus of the Public Service
Commission, Mr. Shouts denied fli.71 Ills
company had violated any pan of thn
agreement by which the strike was
settled last w.lt. He said that the com
pany had adhered liuth to tlx- letter and
the spirit of the agreement, Imt had ills-
ciiargect men convicted or crimes or
found guilty of other off.Mici-s against
the discipline maintained by lh.; coin-
IUI1V
President Shonls i,l-o made It clear
,. P..,l.. ,,, ,..,.!..
committees sent by tho employee",
whether union or non-union. In leg.ird
to the protest made by the union mu
that the company In arranging fai ili
tles for Hie einplojees to nlcct grievance
committees was actually Interfering
with the organisation of tho union Prel
dent Shouts said that the romp. my, m
supervising this secret balloting, was
merely taking precaution" to Insure thn
non-union men the tight and prtvilrrc in
sc-nU any complaints to the company
He said, however, that he was ready
to receive a grievance committee from
the union as well. In other words, the
company Is now nady to tieat with any
committee of employees that represents
a substantial part of the curium.
To Discos Grievances.
1'nder thesn circumstances ,t Is i -pected
that Mr. lledle.i, who was
designated yesterday by President
Shonts to receive the union men," will
discuss carefully and fully the grievances
presented by the union men to-day. of
courso the present situation and threat
ened rupture i rally precedes, the points
of dispute that vvcro to be settled be.
I ween the company and the men by their
committees or by arbitration,
i The company says It has not violated
,?"', l,art,of Br''7l , The union
".. , '""
llieil mm
violation of the roiupnny
promise that every man should be re.
employed without prejudice. While tin
union leaders havo received power to
call a strike f no satisfactory iisree.
merit Is reached at the conference to.
day It Is the plan of the union '.rader '
before calling a strike to return to tlm
Mayor nnd to Chairman .Straus, laving
all the facts before them,
Such a step, If the situation becomes
that critical, would requ're the return
of Mayor Mltchel from hi" vacation l
camp at Plutlsliurg and Chairman
Straus from Maine, Major Mltrhrl,
when seen jrsterd.iy nt ramp, said lm
was ready to return to the city at anj
time If circumstances required
He said, however, that lm was being
advised na to any rhan'e in the solu
tion by his secretary, Theodore Hons
seau. Mr. Itoutseau said lust night that
he had talked over the long distance tel
ephone with the Major.
No neasnn to llrlnrn.
'The Mayor told me," said Mr nou.
seau, "that he saw- no reason why he
should tetiirn nt this time when Hi
agreement b which the strike was set.
tied provides means for eettllng all ques
tions In confer?nce between the work
men and the clllclals ot the compandor
by arbitration." f
That alio M the view ot the Publla
