Mmn
jr
Vi
TFTNANCIAL EDITION
irel
JJrti .
iEMiger
iHliimKuiuuiDn jjjiiJWJiiiy mmn
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. H-NO. 289
Jtimnn
NIGHT
EXTRA
i "353s Rer
5rT 1 1 mMi'Uv Bui " lOi
I
SLAVS CAPTURE
366,000 OF FOE
IN GALICIA RUSH
Teuton Qounter - Attacks
Check Eussian March
on Lemberg
ITALIANS NEARING GOAL
War Moves on All Fronts
Outlined for Quick Reading
1 Russian front The Russian
..fWnnco on Lemberg hns been tem
porarily checked by von Bothmcr's
fierco counter - attacks. Pctrograd,
however, ndvicos state that theso
have been repulsed.
2 Italian front General Ca
norna's force3 arc steadily makinpf
headway east and southeast of Go
rizia. Italian advance guards are
reported to bo only 11 miles from
Trieste
3. West front Beaten back by
the' heavy French assault on both
banks of the Somme, the Germans
havo made no counter-attack against
tho newly conquered French posi
tions. Violent nrtlllerying, espe
cially near Maurepas and Bclloy-en-Santerre,
where the French ad
vanced yesterday. Berlin admits
certain Allied progress, but claims
regaining some ground.
4. Balkan front Allies from Sa
lonica base arc prosecuting drive to
regain Serbia along 100-milo front.
PETROGRAD, Aug. 17.
The capture of nearly $000 additional
Austro-Germans, Including 198 officers,
was announced today by tho Russian War
Office. This brings tho total number of
Germans and Austro-Hungarlans captured
4n tho Russian drlvo since Juno 4 up to
HG.108 offlcors and men. Of this total
7955 are officers. Moreover, Brussllofi's
rmy captured recently 36 guns and 14,000
shells.
Artillery and rlflo duels are continued
along tho front, tho, official report stati;3,
ind It also nnnounccs tho repulse of
counter-attacks. .
Kemmcrn. west of Riga, has been bom
barded by n Zeppelin.
General von Bothmcr's Austro-German
y which retreated' from the Strlpa River
Is miking a strong stand north of tho
Dniester between tho Zlota Llpa and the
JJaraJowka Rivers, and furious fighting Is
jn progress in that district.
The Austro-Oerman counter-attacks, cou
pled with Intense artillery fire, brought
about a temporary check of tho Russian ad
Tance In that region, but It Is believed that
the- drive will soon bo In full swing again
The fighting lino north of the Dniester
lies on both sides of tho Gallclan town of
Horozanka, which had been destroyedby
artillery flro.
At the ends of tho Gallclan battlo line
the Russians continue their steady progress,'
notably west of tho upper Sereth and on the
line stretching south from tho Dniester to
the lower ranges of the Carpathians.
In the Carpathians tho Russians have
captured more dominating heights and are
fighting hard to get control of Jnblonltza
Pass, known as tho key to the Carpathians.
The appointment of General Nicholas
IUissky to command tho northern group of
armies facing von Hlndcnburg Is believed
here to be tho prelude to great activity In
' Poland. Military critics expect the Rus
lans to launch a strong offensive from the
Baltic to the PInsk district.
BERLIN, Aug. 17. German troops have
tepulsed Russlun attacks at many points on
k the eastern front and cantured the Starao-
bczyna Hilt In tho Carpathians, It was of-
Sclally announced this afternoon. Near
Toustobaby and Konozanl, Russian attacks
ere fruitless. In tho region of Batkow
ind Harburzew. Russian night attacks
Uo were repulsed.
ITALIAN VANGUARD SAID
TO BE ONLY ELEVEN MILES
FROM ITS TRIESTE GOAL
ROME. Aug. 17.
A dispatch from Udlne, the Italian base.
jsays that the advance guard of tho Italians
I Only about eleven miles from Trieste.
E- While tho Aus.tro-Hungarlans are at-
taddng at many points alone the front to
I create a diversion, tho steady progress of the
I uauans east of Gorlzla continues, with the
ivy guns slowly but steadily blasting a
? jr through the mountain dfn nf h
teutons.
The Strongly bUllt trenches nn th f7arsn
plateau, southeast of Gorlzla, .are falling
IT tha handa 0I th8 Italians one by one.
f The battlo In that district never ceases day
or night. When tho infantry Is not attack
, "ir the artillery Is hnmi.gr.iin.
The report that Germans are being sent
taii,. . "" ueans are neing sent
Jtho?,?h .e of thla "ctor s credited here,
kct... ,. ,,ual ueciaration or war exists
tirv i? ,y and Germany, Austrla-Hun-ry
Is In n rtor.... i...ii .. ,
ItaK " Bettln more serious dally. The
tora tnr drJV'nB toward in two dlrec-
eastt;rJ?im Tr este ne 'rce cutting directly
'atth. h a"a'nt the high positions that lie
v w basa 91 the Iatrla peninsula and the
Continued on I'ate Four. Colamn Two
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For PhVnJli1.t J ..... r
s emit.. v" " "'" ""'' ueJ-
forth winds, becoming variable.
J!.
I.KNGTU OF DAV.
B 13 a.m. I Moon rUea . . . .8:52 p.m.
U.33 p.m. 1 Moon souths . ,8Mt a.m.
i "" MU
CHESTNUT STREET.
jkt ,. "" t ""?": -
Bii.w " iyJt nun iji.utu.Ks
. -' water
W
-. -v vli, , nuu Kr
A. 1A i ..-w .
4 40 p.m.
"" It a oi. 1 Low water II Ji p m.
JTEMrEIUTUitE AT EACH UOUK.
91
lOlillTHfJ
rrar3t 4Tg
ISi 85p65t 1
TAKE SALOONS OUT OF POLITICS
ORDER TO SEASHORE POLICE
Director Sooy, of Atlantic City, Threat
ens Licenses
ATLANTIC CITY, Aug. 17. Director of
rubllo Safety Sooy, who has piado threats
to revoke the licenses of three of the largest
cafes on tho Boardwalk, admitted today
that It was n movototako shoro saloons out
of politics. Ability to deliver votes has long
hecn an Important consideration In tho
license game hero.
"Some peoplo who hold licenses seem to
think they can bo as far aa they llko with
the law and then have everything squared by
going to somo politician," Director Sooy
said. "I think It Is tlmo to convince some
of them that that sort of thing will not
work any longer In Atlantic City. My theory
Is that a llcenso holder hero enters Into a
contract with tho city. If ho doesn't nbldo
by tho terms of his contract, wo'll havo to
tako his license away from him "
TENDERLOIN RAID
MAY BE REPEATED
IF MAYOR DALLIES
Gibboney Said to Be Collect
ing Evidence on
Situation
DIVES IN FULL BLAST
Record of Mayor's "Work"
in Ridding City of Vice
A RECORD of Mayor Smith's
"work" toward cleaning up the
vice situation:
Monday Mayor directed Director
Wilson to issue orders to all police
men to sever affiliations with politi
cal clubs.
Tuesday Mayor's action: Noth
ing. Director Wilson emasculates
Mayor's order regarding political
clubs by announcing that ward clubs
were social clubs, and, therefore, it
was not necessary for rjolicemen to
resign from them.
Wednesday Mayor's action: Not
nt his office.
Today Mayor's action: Not at
his office
Other officials absent from their
offices, while vice again reigns in
Philadelphia, are: William Wilson,
Director of Public Safety, motoring
to Niagara Falls: James Robinson,
Suerjntendent of Police, "somewhere
in the country"; District Attorney
Samuel P. Rotan, enjoying tho piny
breezes of Maine.
Tho rcpoit wns current today that D.
Claronco GIbbonoy, head of tho Law nnd
Order Society, who engineered tho July 15
raid, had a corps of Investigators out get
ting evidenco against disorderly houses and
gambling dens In preparation for another
Incursion Into tho vlco district In .case
Mayor Smith falls to keep his promise to
"clean up" tho city.
Gibboney refused to deny or confirm the
report. Asked If ho w.ib preparing for an
other raid ho said, evasively:
"Wo nro always on tho Job ; we nro con
stantly on tho lookout for violators of the
law."
The attltudo of the administration In the
vice situation Is regarded by tho police as
the greatest grand Btand play ever perpe
trated by any city administration.
REGARDED AS JOKE.
Habitues of tho Tonderloln look upon
tho situation as a Joke. They are becoming
bolder each day, and are returning to their
old haunts. A number of disorderly houses
are said to havo been reopened, and gam
blers are returning to town.
A notorious resori Known as ino -iiouse
of Oil Paintings," on North Eleventh street,
near Green, Is going full blast. The place
Is one of a number which were not dis
turbed In the recent raid. While tho raid
was going on the proprietress was enter
taining a party of friends at a dinner In a
Chestnut street restaurant. At the "House
of Oil ralntlngs" today the Information
was given out that she was In Atlantic City.
It was staled, however, that the house waa
open as usual.
TENDERLOIN BUSY.
The Tenderloin has become nearly as
active as It was prior to the big raid. Fool
rooms are thronged with joung men, who
mako side bets on games, and disorderly
women are seen on Race, Vine, Winter and
Noble streets. Gamblers, filckpockets, scouts
and dopesters can be Been hanging around
their usuat corpers.
In political circles' everybody Is laughing
at the Mayor's "Job at cleaning up Phila
delphia." Today a politician dubbed the
'Mayor's method as "tho absent treatment."
It was supposeu mai uirecior wuson leu
last Tuesday for Niagara Falls, but it be.
came known today that ho did not leave his
farm In Ambler until yesterday.
Process servers from the District At
torney's office were still searching today
for "Joe" Perrotte, who Is accused of hav-
Continued on 1'ate lire, Column Two
i
Youth Held on Charge of Selling Heroin
Frank Fetrone, 19 years old. of 728
Annln street, was held under $500 ball for
court by Magistrate Stevenson, sitting In
the absence of United States Commissioner
Long, In the Federal Building today.
Petrone was charged with passing heroin.
He was allowed to sign his own bond.
Fetrone was arrested last Thursday at
Juniper and Chestnut streets for passing
heroin to anower man, accaruing to uepuiy
Internal Revenue Agent Joseph McDevltt
The defendant said he had been a drug
user for four years and had learned the
habit from bad companions. It cost him
7 a week to keep supplied In the drug, he
sald.-
--;
Prepare Pier for Bremen
NEW LONDON, Conn., Aug 17 With
100 workmen striving for a big bonus, it
U expected that the warehouse being built
by the Kastern Forwarding Company on
the State pier hero will be completed today
The T - Scott Company l$ holding tugs
a readia-H for t-a Bremta,
KRUSEN PLACES
SUNDAY SCHOOLS
IN QUARANTINE
Health Director Requests
Closing in Effort to
Check Plague
WIDENS PROTECTION RING
Infantile Paralysis
Since Midnight
Now cases in Philadelphia.... 2
Deaths in Philadelphia 1
New cases in New York 121
Deaths in Now York 32
New cases in Pennsylvania. ... 8
New cases in New Jersey 61
A rigid ring of regulations to prevent
mass movements of children was formulated
today by tho health officials nnd police In
an effort to check tho spread of Infantllo
pnralysli In tho city.
All Sunday schools will bo closed begin
ning next Sunday, following n request Is
sued at noon by Director Kruson, of tho
Department of Public Health and Chari
ties. Alt block pnrtlcs, street carnivals,
porch parties nnd liny and automobile rldci
connected with such gatherings nro pro
hibited after Saturday night In an order
Issued by Superintendent of Tollco Robin
son nt tho request of Director Kruson. At
tho snmo tlmo a warning to pnronts to keep
children oft boats and cars wns Issued by
Dr. J. lt. Campbell, chief of tho Stnto medi
cal Inspectors In Philadelphia. Many Boy
Scout troops oluntarlly hnvo postponed
mootlngs for nn Indefinite period.
DIRECTOR KUUSEN'S REQUEST.
Director Kruscn's request, which Is nil
drcsscd to nil pastors of churches nnd su
perintendents of Sunday schools, reads as
follow :
In view of tho fact thnt cases of
Infantllo paralysis aro being reported
dally, you nro requested to nt once closo
all churches and Sunday Bchools to
children under 10 years of ago until
further notice. This Is dono In order
to provent tho extension of this disease.
Mny wo havo your hearty co-operation?
Street and porch parties already planned
for tonight, tomorrow night and Saturday
night will bo permitted providing they nro
glcn In no block where n caso of tho dls
easo Is present.
Four deaths and only two now cases re
ported since midnight glvo rise to tho hope
that tho epidemic Is on tho wano nnd that
tho specter of Infantile paralysis will dis
appear. Tho number of deaths today prob
ably would havo been below normal were
It not for tho record-breaking number of
now case3 yesterday, health odlclals pointed
out.
THE DAY'S DEATH ROLL.
Tho deaths:
ANoni.o nn rnANCisco. 22 month? oia, 1333
South 1 licks street.
CONRAD KASrAH. 0 mcuths old. C12 Tusculum
street. '
THOMAS TASQUALLA. SI months old. 170T
South 11th Htreet.
GLADYS SIfAnr. 17 months old. 251 Kat
Sharpnark street.
Tho two additional case3 of tho plague
today aro Philip Zlmbardo, 11 months old,
1108 Halls treet, and Tony VltanelU. 2
years old, 2830 North Twenty-first street.
Tho record now Is 232 cases and C2 dc.iths.
The rnsqualla baby died after being
brought to this city from Lennl, Dolawnro
County, over the Pennsylvania Railroad Au
gust 10. At that tlmo It was sick, but pa
ralysis did not develop until later. Thl3
caso was used by Doctor Campbell as an
example of the danger nttcndlng taking
children on trips. Doctor Campbell today
sent 15 Inspectors to Chester to examine
boats and trains arriving In that city.
A scattering of the epidemic Into tho
suburbs was noticeable tpday, a death oc
curring In Ablngton township nnd a new
case, that of thrco-ycar-oU Bessie Siskin,
of 779 Kalghn avenue, appearing In
Camden.
SIX-TEAIt-OLD DIES.
The suburban death was that of George
Eyre, 6-year-old son of J. Eyre, of Edge
Illll road, one mile west of Cresmont. The
house Is on tho western limits of Ablngton
township, bordering on the fashionable Old
York road section. The case was diagnosed
Continued on lnie I'lte, Column Two
HARMONY THE KEYWORD
IN HIBERNIAN CONVENTION
Present Officers of the Order Re-elected
at Today's Session
POTTSVILT.E, Pa,, Aug. 17 Harmony
continues In the deliberations of the Ancient
Order of Hibernians sitting In this city In
Us, fiftieth annual convention. At the sea.
slon this morning the present o dicers of the
A. O. II. were re-elected. They are: Presi
dent, P, A. Kllgallen, of Pittsburgh; vice
president, James Campion, of Schuylkill
County; State secretary, John O'Dea, Phil
adelphia, and State treasurer, John O'Boyle,
of- "Wilkes-Barre.
Men Sued for Broken Aeroplane
The Houghton Flying Machine Company,
a North Dakota corporation, with an olllco
at H2i Larchwood avenue, began suit in
the, Municipal Court today against Harvey
yf, Kays and JIaldeman on Figyelraessy,
of 51H Baltimore avenue, for damages to
the plaintiff's flying machine. It Is set
forth by the Boughton Company that on
August 6, of this year, at the aviation
grounds of tho navy yard, at League Is
land, when von FIgyelmessy attempted to
operate a scout biplane, owned by the two
defendants, he collided with the Boughton
machine, wrecking It to the extent of $1009.
Camden Man Accused of Assault
Frank Clayton was sent to prison in
Camden today by Recorder Stackhousa In
default of $305 ball after he had been held
for court on an assault charge preferred by
Mrs. Edna Laird. hU sister-in-law, of 1736
Broadway She testified that he had come
lo- her home last night, after his brutal
treatment had forced his wife and children
to come to her home, audi there ha bad re.
Seated, bis treatment.
pnrLAD33LPiriA, Thursday, august it, ioig.
. w -i
tisvT. . .
, ROAD IIEADS,T0 SEE WILSON
Philadelphia's three representa
tives in the conference between
President Wilson nnd the heads of
the country's largest railways will
be Samuel Ren, president of tho
Pennsylvania Railroad Company,
at the top; Aprnew T. Dice, presi
dent of tho Philadelphia and Read
ing Railway Company, in tho cen
ter, and Daniel Willard, president
of tho Baltimore and Ohio Rail
road Company, below.
RELIEVE CAR HIT GIRL
FOUND NEAR ROADSIDE
Motormnn Thought He Struck
Dog; Discovered Umbrella in
Fender Victim May Die
Miss Maud Pagdln, 22 years old. who
was found lying unconscious from a double
fracture of the skull ana other Injuries
beside the car tracks In Ogontz road, near
Washington lane, last night, Is believed by
the police to have been struck by a Willow
Grove car. But they have not been able
to nnswer the question why, If she was
struck by a car, motormen passed the spot
for nearly two hours without seeing her,
and she was finally discovered because she
lay directly In tho light from, a car.
Henry Jones, motorman of the Willow
Grove car, went to the Dranchtown police
station after Miss Pagdln had been sent
to tho Oermantown Hospital tfnd told how
he had found an umbrella In the fender of
tho car when he reached the end of the
line. He said that he had ' felt his car
bump, but thought he had struck a dog
which had been running along the side of
the car at that point. He had not stopped,
he said, to Investigate. He was released
after he had given the statement. The con
ductor of the car was not questioned, nor
was his name obtained by the police. He
has not been arretted.
Dr. C. F, Andrew, who Is attending Miss
Pagdln at the hospital, said today that her
skull was broken in two places, her collar
bone was fractured and she was bruised
and out n many places about the body.
He said her Injuries showed she might have
been struck by a street car and knocked
off the track. Her condition Improved this
morning, the physician said, but she still is
In a critical condition.
.Miss Pagdln ls'the daughter of Mrs.' Eliza
beth Pagdln, a widow, who lives at the
northeast corner of Washington lane and
Limekiln pike. Plttvllle. She is a sister
of William Pagdln, former tenor soloist
In Holy Trinity Church, Nineteenth and
Walnut streets, who Is now at his summer
home at Spring Lake. N. J.
Mother of Ten Dies at Age of 106
QLENS FALLS. N Y, Aut 17 Mrs
Mary Sage died In her home In Darrows
vllle, near here, last night, at the age of 10
She was the mother of ten children, ve ot
jr-qm, are llvi-fe
' j
W AC J
QUiiNEWS
ST. LOUIS lstG., 0 0 0 0 0 10 2 0 03
ATHLETICS. .. 002000010 1 i
Tlauk and Severold; Dlish nnd Haley.
AMERICAN LEAGUE
DETROIT, 1st g..-.,0 0 112 0
WASHINGTON.... O O 3 O O O
jlt Dauss and Spcnccrj Harper
BUSH BEATS PLANK IN FIRST GAME'
ATHLETICS r h o a c
Witt.so 10 1-10
Wa'.3h,r 2 13 0 0
Strunk.cf 0 2 3 0 1
Schang.lf 1110 0
Lajoic,2b 0 13 4 0
Mclnnis.lb 0 0 10 '1 0
McElwec,3b ; 0 0 2 3 0
Haley, c .... o 0 6 1 0
Bush, p 0 2 12 0
Totals A 7 30 15 1
' " SARATOGA RACING RESULTS
I
rirsfc race, selling, ?500 added, 5 1-2 furlongs Tellcidad, 124,
F. T. Buxton, 11 to D, 4 to 5, 2 to 5, won; Onwn, 113, Hayncs, 3 to 1,
even, 3 to 5, second; Solvcig, 118, Carioll, 8 to 1, 3 to 1, 8 to 5, third.
Time, 1.08.
RAILWAY MEN HEAR WILSON PROPOSAL
WASHINGTON, Aug. 17. The fiist of the 640 members of the
railroad brotherhoods, general committee began filing into the cast
entiancc of the Whito House nt 2:d5 o'clock 'this afternoon. A largo
crowd witnessed their arrival. Although A. 33. Gnrretson, of tho
subcommittee, hnd n copy of tho Piesidout'a proposal 10 lined in
length written ou Whito House stationery hy tho President himself
iiono of tho general committee had lend it. Lee, Carter and Stone,
o the subcommittee, had duplicates. It was' not discussed, it wao
declared, at the meeting of the general committee nt tho Bijou The
ntre, which lasted from 1 o'clock uutil 2. "The 1'icsidcut Jiimbelf
is to picscnt it," said Lcc.
7fi,000 TEUTONS KILLED BY RUSSIANS SINCE JULY 7
GtONHVA, Aiifr, 17. It H learned finm n confidential kouico that tho Austro
Hungailau losses slnco tho beginning of tho Husslau offensive on July 7 aro: Killed,
7G.000; wounded, 321,000; missing, 300,710.
MARRIED MEN MOST EAGER TO ENLIST WITH GUARD
Married men seem to be tlio most desirous of enlisting in tho National Guard, ac
cording to Major Charles S. Hess of the First Infantry, who Is In chargo ot the Union
Leaguo recruiting station today. Five men applied for enlistment this morning and
threo of them were rejected because they weie married. Moio than a dozen married
men applied for enlistment yesterday.
D
GRAIN EMBARGO CONTINUES; BIG SUPPLY ON HAND
T.io emb.ugo on train for export through Philadelphia la still in force, the Penn
sylvania ruilioud has (.nnounced. The railioad's elevator at Glrard Tolnt Is full and
there are from .00 U 300 cais waiting to be unloaded. Because ot tho accumulation
an embargo lias bein placed on all grain shipments through Locust Point terminals
In Baltimore of the Baltimore and Ohio Ralhoad, covering shipments on boat lines or
rallioads, Irrespective o: oilgln, consigned, reconslgncd or to be reconslgned for ex.
pott. It Is said that 15,000,000 bushels ate stored In tho Locust Point elevators with
out tonnage available foi Its removal.
AMBASSADOR PAGE CALLS ON SECRETARY LANSING
WASHINGTON, Aug. 17. Accompanied by his secretary, who carried a heavy
volume of ofliclal papers, "Walter II. Page, American Ambassador to Great Britain,
today paid a lengthy visit to Secretary of State Lansing, at which all of the contro
versles now pending between Great Britain and this Government were discussed.
Mr. Page Is understood to have given Mr. Lansing a complete report on the British
view of the blacklist and malls protests made by this Government.
BREAD PRICES NOT TO CHANGE HERE, SAY BAKERS
The questlpn of 6 or 10 cent bread will be settled by September 1, according
to bakers In this city. At two of the city's largest bakeries It was said last night
the present scale of prices would be maintained, Louis J, Kolb, president of the
Kolb Baking Company, also declared that no Increase in the retail price Js con
templated, although he said the high cost of materials was reducing tha proflts'of the
bakers. At the Bakers' Association. 1228 North Tenth street, it was said that the
increase In price of the 6-cent loaf to 6 cents would be Insufficient to meet the
increased cost of materials and that the 10-cent loaf would be adopted next
month,
U-BOATS SINK NORSE SHIPS
AMSTERDAM, Aug. 17. The Norwegian bark Respite and the schooner Frewald
havo been sunk in tic North Sea by a Gprman submarine. The crews were landed
today.
KAISER VISITS POLISH CAPITAL
GENEVA, Aug. 1. The Kaiser has gone to Warsaw and it is believed that a
proclamation announcing" Polish autonomy will shortly be Issued there.
(
GERMAN SHIP REPORTED TORPEDOED
COPENHAGEN. Aug. 17. Maritime advices report that the German steamship
Weser has been torpedoed and sunk. (There are two German steamships named the
Wester. One is of 1023 tons and the other ot 181 tons. The destroyed vessel probably
was sunk In the Baltic by a British submarine )
TWO MORE ITALIAN SHIPS SUNK BY SUBMARINES
LONDON. Aug. IT. The Italian ships Iva and Giusepps Patriarca, av been.,
sunk by. fiubnuurluea, saxs- ft. d-vpatdb. to Llcid'a today.
ConwanT, HIS. t ma Pnua Lmon Ooururs
8 5
7 1
and Henry,
ST. LOUIS r h o a c
Stiolten, If 0 0 10 0
Miller, rf o 1 0 o
SIslcr, lb 1 2 13 0 1
I'ratt,2b 1 0 2 1 o
Marsans, cf 0 12 0 0
Scvcrcid.c 0 2 5 2 0
Austin, 3b 0 113 1
Lavan.ss 0 0 3 7 3
Plank.p , 0 2 0 0 0
Totals '.... 3 S 28 13 5
PBICU- OWE OEKT
RAILWAY HEADS
HEED SUMMONS
TO SEE WILSON
Presidents Are Called in
New Effort to Avert
Strike
MANAGERS PROVOKE
NATION'S EXECUTIVE
Brotherhood Leaders "Sea
Chance Now for Early
Comiiromise
CONFERENCES ARRANGED
Facts in Railway Tangle
Faced Tolay by President
PRESIDENT WILSON calls prea-
idents of great railroad systems
to Washington for u confetence.
Employes' committee of six hun
dred will hear outline of tho Presi
dent's plan of settlement this after
noon. Railway managers submit fur
ther facts nnd figures in opposition
to demands of employes.
Tho threatened strike, involving
400,000 men, millions in money ana
the entire United States hinges
largely upon two points:
A.N EIGHT-HOUR DA.Y
Managers say "good railroading
cannot be done under nn arbitrary
eight-hour schedule."
Employes promised to. "speed up"
so 10 hours' work will bo dono in
eight - u
OVERTIME Pay and a half.
Managers want to arbitrate 'this.
Men say, "needed to enforce cight-working-hours
schedule."
By ROBERT J. BENDER
WASHINGTON, Aug. 17. Events in th
most dramatic Industrial conflict tho coun
try has seen In many years moved swiftly
today. .
Afternoon found President Wilson In hit
library completing a proposal ho was to
make this afternoon to C40 representatives
of tho railway brotherhoods, while the
presidents of tho country's largest railroads
wero hurrying to Washington nt his re
quest to hear tho same proposat tomorrovc
aftornoon. ,
' ' It becamo known that the President, In
calling by telegraph today for the rail
road presidents, did not consider he had
yet appealed to tho "ultimate authority."
That the President Is prepared to gp be
yond tho railroad presidents and, perhaps,
liejond tho employes' general committee of
C40, wns Indicated by Judge W. L. Cham
bers, of tho United Stntes Board of Media
tion and Conciliation, following a long ses
sion with the President. In which the exact
proposal to be made to the 010 waa out
lined. Chambers left the President draft
ing tho final text of his proposal.
TllE "ULTIMATE AUTHORITY."
Whom the President has In mind as "ultU
mate authority" this Is Chambers's ex
pressioncould not be learned. One theory
Is that the President purposes to put th
final responsibility for refusal by the rall
rondi to accept his suggestions, on the In
terests that cwn the railroads as distinct
from tho railroad presidents. Whom he
could name ns final authority In the case
of the employes, under the same circum
stances, could not be said. A request for a
referendum by the employes on his proposal
was suggested. Judge Chambers refused
any enlightenment.
At the White House efforts to obtain an
outllno of the President's proposal were un
availing, but the uttempt revealed the fact
the managers and the employes' subcom
mittee had asked that all thflr discussions
with the President be kept absolutely secret.
This was to be true of the President's meet
ing this afternoon with the big general com
mittee In the East Room of the Whit
House.
PRESIDENT'S SUMMON&
The President summoned to Washington
all presidents of the railroads Involved in
the wage nnd labor hours' dispute with th
big four brotherhoods. Ha requests they
come to Washington at once.
By this telegram the President admits
for' the first time that he considers the
situation so serious that the commute
of railway managers now In this city can
not settle It. The telegram was sent to
Daniel WUlard, of the Baltimore and Ohio,
chairman of the Railway Presidents' As
sociation The Jelegram reads: v
DUcuMlon of the matter Involved la
the threatened railway etrlke h
reached a point wliV.li makes It lilsbly
detlrable that I ehouhl pernonttUy con
fer with you at the earlleit yomlble
moment, and with the prenUlenti of any
of the railroads affected who may be
immediately acceetlble.
Hope you can make It rouTenleut to
come to Wanblnston at once.
WOOUKOW WIHON.
WIU-VRD RESPONDS.
After the telegram had been sent the
President got into touch with President
WUlard on the long-distance phone and It
Is reported Mhat WUlard agreed to con
here immediately. Other railroad presidents
who now are In New York are expected to
accompany him. As soon aa they reach
here a conference will be arranged In tbt
yyhlte House.
Acceptances from the railway presidents
began arriving t the White Houstt rly
thla afternoon, P D Underwood, of th
Brie , A. it Smith, of tha New- York Cm.
tral. William Trutcdale, Ivaka wanna j
Howard KUtytt New Haven, and Him
HoKten. t" B and Q ware tha ftnrf w
y.1'0 tht they would come at otvze
Twelve or mor will leav New XrX -i
4 o'otock thla nftumoon.
In addition, to the jpre-idu-t fciytaME $M
