WEATHER. k ^ - TO "From Pro** to Horn.
Fair tonight and tomorrow; light vari- M^A A. aA A A/A/A / a & A^ y A VI '
f |ik OIT WJ If rT'Tri /r VY/1^ Ml Within thm Hoar*
Temperature for twenty-four hours end- J ^ 0MM WWW I Z \ UAI
Ing p.m.: Highest. p.m. today; . I Hr rM Wr ' g\ .
lowest. a.m.. today. J ^_W_ f 1 H H 1__^____?_^________J.
Full report on page
iT.OSING NEW YORK STOCKS FAGp 14. > ^ ^ S 1WA Dally Iwnit, IU?I iay. MR.
? - ??
No. 29,413. WASHINGTON, D. C., THURSDAY, AUGUST 17, 1916.-EIGHTEEN PAGES. 7~* ONE CENT.
BRITISH ADVANCE
ON SOMME FRONT,
NEAR GUILLEMONT
,
i
Push Forward Their Lines
West and Southwest
of Town.
FRENCH CONSOLIDATE
NEWLY WON GROUND
German Counter Stroke Expected i
to the North of
' Maurepas.
PEBONNE IS THE OBJECTIVE
Important Railway Center Is Goal.
Berlin Admits One Reverse
and Claims Successes.
LONDON, August 17, 3:19
p.m.?The British have made another
advance on the Somme
> front. Official announcement was
made today that the line has been
pushed forward west and southvest
of Guillemont.
After scoring important gains
along a front of nearly three miles
in the Somme region both north
and south of the river, the French
are busily consolidating the newly
won ground, making preparations
for the expected German counter
stroke. No such attack developed
last night, but the Paris bulletin
today reports intense artillery activity
north of Maurepas, where
:he French yesterday, in conjunc-,
t'on with the British, effected ]
tl'.eir most telling advance, capturing
more than three-quarters of a
mile of trenches.
According to the German official
statement of today, French
and British troops made heavy
attacks on the northern Somme
front yesterday, but were beaten
back by the Germans. Berlin admits
the French gained a foothold
in German first-line trenches over
a width of ^oo meters near Bellov.
Objective of Operation.
The new allied advance north of the j
rfomme weakens the hold of the Ger- j
mans on Guillemont and Maurepas j
which latter place the French already j
partly hold. The objective of the op- \
eration is the Important railway center
of Peronne, nearly opposite which,
south of the river, the French yesterday
also scored a gain in the region of
Belloy-en-Santerre.
The British communication of today
follows:
British Official Report.
As a result of fighting undertaken
yesterday evening in conjunction with
a French advance on Maurepas. we
have pushed forward our line both
west and southwest of Guijlemont.
?cbi 01 ingn wooa we captured some
Sou yards of a hostile trench about 300
yards in advance of our previous line.
Kast of Mouquet farm our machine
gunfire nipped in the bud a German
attack.
"Went of Vimy we exploded a mine
and occupied the crater with only
slight opposition. Both we and the
enemy blew up small mines south of
I*oos, causing us neither casuatles nor
damage."
French Story of Fighting.
The text of the French statement j
giving details of yesterday's fighting ;
follows:
"On the Somme front, after an in- j
ter.-e artillery preparation, we launch- {
< i} an offensive which brought us im- j
: o. tant gains North of Maurepas, as- '
alsf d by the British, we captured one !
entire ?ine of German trenches on a j
front of 1,000 meters, reaching at cer^
tain points the GuilJemont-Maurepas
road.
"South of Maurepas, on a front of two
Kilometers and to a depth of 300 to
:,0" meters, our infantry occupied all j
, ? i??"my positions east of'the Maurepas- j
?.'!ery road, after a sharp attack which
cost the enemy heavily. These two I
operations. brilliantly and rapidly con- |
ducted, resulted In the capture of a
considerable number of prisoners, i
\ rose numbers are not yet obtainable !
*\\t the same time south of the !
- Soinun.. our troops, attacking with a;
i i-l . captured : powerfully organized'
.iyr.t < of German trenches on a length
??o meters south of Beiloy-en- j
I'viit -rr- . capturing sixty prisoners.'
T ie-e v.a- u.erinittent cannonade,;
} on T:ie remainder of th" front."
German Communication.
*i Iifr Oermun statement of today fol1omj?
The enemy's fire Increased at times
to ureal violence west of Wytschaete
and on the 1 a Uassee canal and to the '
youth thereof.
"After strong British attacks from ;
r I < i willers-Pozierea ]|?< and west of
Kourtauv ?ood had heen repulsed in
the morning the French, after the
strongest artillery preparation, advanced
'?> the assauit between (iuillemont
and the Jru-?inme. and at the same time
\ t i y considerable British forces advanced
bet wee.i Pozieres and Foureaux
v5 -od.
The assault failed, as did five nocttanil
attacks attempted by the French.
After stubborn fighting, portions of
in? enemy troops which penetrated our
positions west of foureaux wood and
south of Maurepas were driven back
Again. The enemy's losses were large. j
"South ot the Somme fighting took
(Continued on Second Paige.)
ft
WASHINGTON STATE
IN HIBCOLM
Few There Doubt Electoral
Vote Will Be Captured by
Republicans.
BULL MOOSE RETURNING
TO RANKS OF OLD PARTY
Hard Fight for United States Senatorship.
With Democrats
Hopeful of Winning.
.
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
SEATTLE, Wash., August 17.
?Washington's electoral vote
will go to Hughes, according to
all current indications, and by a
substantial majority. The gov1
ernorship will be close, with
democratic, republican and proj
gressive tickets in the field.
The outcome of the contest for the
I United States senatorship is at present
obscured by the dust raised in the
scramble for the republican nominaI
tion, and forecasts are unsafe until
after the primaries of September 12.
Hughes will carry the state for the
presidency through the return to the
party of more than a majority of the
progressives who bolted in 1012, and on
the issue of the protective tariff. The
republicans count upon the presidential
vote to pull the state ticket through
as well.
Real Strucre-le in Prospect.
The political situation in this state
is one of the most interesting west of
Indiana, and furnishes the greatest
material kfor a real, live struggle between
the two old parties. The various
elements entering into it serve to inspire
the democrats with hope and
animate them with vigor to make an
earnest campaign.
They will have the aid of some very
prominent former progressives who
have come out for President Wilson;
men who were republicans before they
became progressives. The republicans
admit the prominence of these men,
but minimize the extent of their following.
Washington, for years a republican
stronghold, followed Roosevelt in 1912.
President Wilson polled 86,840 votes in
the state, Taft 70,445 and Roosevelt
113,698. Thus the combined Taft and
Roosevelt vote was 97,303 in excess of
the democratic vote.
The progressives began to return to
the republican party In the senatorial
election of 1914. In that year. Senator
Wesley L. Jones received 130,479, as
the republican candidate, against 83,282
for Ole Hanson, progressive, and 91.733
for Black, democrat. This Mr.
Hanson has now declared for President
Wilson, although he is not running for
office, and it is not claimed that he can
bring all of his former supporters into
the democratic camp.
Case of Personal Popularity.
His was a case of popularity very
similar to that of Col. Roosevelt's. He
is a unique character of a man and
draws to his own hand, and not to that
of a party. The progressives will have
a candidate for senator in Walter J.
Thompson, who will hold the nucleus
of a progressive organization if possible,
but is not expected to do more
than that. The other progressives will
come back to the old party or vote
for Wilson.
In addition to Mr. Hanson, some
twenty-five other former well known
progressives have declared for President
Wilson.
Notwithstanding this defection, which
looms large in the public eye but is
claimed not to have support in votes
relative to the prominence of the individuals,
the republicans are confident
of their ground in claiming the state
for Hughes.
How the Tariff Hurts.
Washington is essentially a protec
tionist state and has suffered actual
loss by the democratic tariff, which
has not been'offset, as in some other
commonwealths, by temporary war
prosperity. The state has shared very
little in the Industrial prosperity engendered
in this country by the war.
It has, however, seen millions of dollars'
worth of British Columbia shingles
and lumber, cut from raw material
which was 20 per cent cheaper
than theirs and manufactured by coolie
and Hindu cheap labor, pass the very
mills of its lumbermen to compete in
American markets under the reduced
tariff. It has seen New Zealand butter,
Argentine beef and eg-gs from
China sold in Seattle markets lower
than home-raised products, being admitted
free of duty. The lumber trade
is in straits and the workingmen
charge it to the democratic tariff.
Mr. Hughes, in his speech here, said
to his audience ,that he didn't have
to talk tariff, as every man in the
crowd knew the subject thoroughly
from practical everyday business experience.
The audience assented.
Progressives are in the main protectionists
in Washington and many a
lumberman who is a democrat from
principle looks ruefully at the practical
operations of the tariff of his
party.
Poindexter Busy Explaining.
Senator Poindexter, progressive incumbent,
voted for the Underwood
tariff bill, although he spoke and voted
against the lumber schedules. He has
been busy ever since explaining that
he voted for the bill because it contained
the income tax and other features
acceptable to him. He now is a
candidate for renornination as a re
publican an?l supporter of Hughes, although
he says he will, if elected, still
hold himself free to vote his convictions.
He is being opposed for the
nomination by Representative William
K. Humphrey, a regular republican, and
by live others?Enoch A. Bryan, Schuyler
Duryee. W. A. Spalding and a
woman. Mrs. John B. Allen, widow of
a former senator. The democratic
! nominee for senator will be former
Senator George Turner, an ultra-con:
servative democrat, at one time, but
1 now converted to the referendum, to
woman suffrage and to President Wil1
son, whom he fought at Baltimore,
j* There js an interesting complication
! in this senatorial fight. Under the law,
I each voter must declare his first and
: second choice for senator. Failure to
declare second choice invalidates the
ballot. If no candidate receives 40 per
cent of the total vote, the first and
second choice votes of each candidate
are added and the one getting the
h i ghest number of first and second
(Continued on Tenth Pace.)
OBLIGATION OF
! MOOT
! Nation's Capital Obligation Is
Not Infinitesimal, But Primary,
Dominating and
Peculiarly Heavy.
HOSTILE THEORIES
ui- UArl I AL UrDulLUIIMu
Will Congress, if It Repudiates
Johnsonian Doctrine, Resurrect
and Vitalize Johnson
Amendment ?
No. vil.
Editorial Correspondence of The Star.
BY THEODORE W. NOYES.
Accord in?: to the Johnston inn doctrine
(IV i upon the nntion. outside of Wushington,
only an Infinitesimal obligation
concerning the National Capital rent*,
and it has met this obligation liberally
and nobly.
Nation's Capital Obligation I? Primary
and Dominating.
The nation's obligation to the capital.
the nation's city, la not Infinitesimal,
bat substantial, dominating;, primary.
That of the residents of the
seat of government is only subordinate
and Incidental.
The one notable act of the nation In
meeting with wise liberality this great
; obligation was in the enactment of the
organir act of 1878-?'with the half-andhalf
provision ? and some of our national
legislators now propose the repudiation
of this wise and beneficent law.
The Johnsonian theory is that the
United States is under no obligation to
maintain or build up the National Capital;
that while it should do nothing in j
lino uiiotiiun 11 lias ancauj uunc ncai ly
everything that has been accomplished.
and that the time has come
when it should cease altogether Its interest
and participation in such upbuilding
and leave the burden upon
the residents of the District, who
ought alone to bear it.
The doctrine of the joint congressional
committee concerning the relation
of nation to capital negatives the
Johnsonian theory at every point, and
in every detail.
Running through the report is the
suggestion that the half-and-half restriction
should be removed in order
that the national expenditure upon
the nation's city may be largely increased,
and not, as demanded by Mr.
Johnson, be radically decreased or
entirely eliminated. And Senator
Works takes this position unequivocally,
pointing out in specific detail
the neglected obligations of capital
upbuilding and urging the more liberal
appropriations of national money
needed to meet them.
The committee's words on this point
are as follows:
"All of this means that the national
city, the nation's home, should be a
district where the national authority
is not only supreme, but a district
where the just pride of a great people
should insist upon its maintenance in
a manner most fitting to the dignity of
the citizens whose manifestation of
central government it is.
*
"As a conclusion, which should be of
the greatest weight, we urge upon
Congress that its appropriations for
the expenses of the District of Columbia
should always be in such sum as
will not only continue the city of
Washington and the District of Columbia
in every respect as the splendid
and beautiful central residence of
this great nation, but also cause it to
become and be forever maintained as a
model for all the cities of the world.
"Oor unanimous conclusion In that
the rate of taxation In the District
should be fixed and certain? that the
Congress should pursue a definite policy
of regular and liberal appropriations,
having In view not only the permanent
moral and physical advancei
inent of the city, but also Its pre-emij
nent beauty and grandeur as the
: municipal expression of the nation's
i home and ltn peopled pride.**
I In the argument for Washington be!
fore the joint committee the equitable
obligation of nation toward capital
was carefully considered as illustrated
in the great capitals of the world, and
how this obligation was met by different
nations was discussed in detail.
(See pages 299-317. Report of Hearings.)
The expenditure of national money
for the development of the National
Capital is recognized as a proper national
outlay everywhere in the world.
There has been controversy over the
propriety of many forms of national
appropriations, as. for instance, those
for internal improvements, roads,
canals, etc., but no one has ever contended
that the capital of a nation is
not a proper object of the nation's fostering
care.
Nation's Capital Obligation Is Extraordinarily
Heavy.
: In the case of Washington there was !
1 found to exist a peculiar national j
obligation in equity toward the capi- j
tal, a double obligation, extraordinarily j
heavy under each head: (1) That arising
from the circumstances of the j
creation of the capital, and (2) that
j which is coupled with and measured
' by the nation's absolute control of the
nation's city. The nation's obligation
to Washington under the first head is
not duplicated in the case of any other
of the world's capitals included in this j
discussion, except Canberra, the capi- j
tal-that-is-to-be of Australia, which
does not yet exist. In respect to a few !
other capitals (Mexico, Paris, Rio, j
Buenos Aires. Athens. Rome) a national
obligation of the second kind is j
recognized, measured by the degree of '
peculiar control exercised over them In j
each rase by the nation. This equita- i
! ble obligation Is substantial in the i
i case of Mexico and of Paris and much ;
i ?tiahtor in the case of Rio. Buenos '
Aires. Athens and Home. But even !
1 Mexico and Paris fall far behind !
Washington In the height and breadth
of this obligation.
The true basis of this nntfoA's obligation
of proportionate contribution
toward the maintenance and development
of the capital Is not solely or
primarily untaxed ownership of District
real estate, though a substantial
and continuous obligation does arise
In connection with snch ownership.
The strongest obligations resting upon
the nation are equitable In their nature
and based primarily on the circumstances
of the capital's creation,
und the treatment of the capital by the
nation ever since the birth of the nation's
city.
By this special obligation I mean an
obligation over and above that which
is imposed solely by the fact that a
city Is a capital.
The general government, by the fact
of planning a magnificent capital, covering
a large area and characterised by
broad streets, avenues and reservations
to an extent unsuitable for a self-supj>
I
? /
1 kJhsk
' W
I
porting commercial city, and by found- ?
Ing thin capital In a place compara- t
tlvely uninhabited, an well an by the
termn of the bnrgraln with the ownern
of the noli, and by the dcclarationn of
Itn representative* at the founding of
the city and afterward, showed nn Intention
to build up a national city, at
the nation's expense, on a craiid scale.
Irrespective of the future population of
the Ohitrlct. The capital wan to be
primarily si center of federal action,
and the occupation of the ground by
settlers was merely Incidental to this
great purpose.
It was to be a meeting: place for the
use, eonvenlence and entertainment of
the people of the entire Union, and the
expense of Its support and adornment
was not to be United by the scanty
resources of what permanent population
It might acquire.
The original owners of Washington
donated flve-sevenths of the city's soil J
and yielded the right of self-govern- |
ment to the nation on the understand
1 1?S iXIIVI llllt/il>3U OBicvi.ivi.t ?. i.? V
tion was to build up here a magnifi- c
cent capital at its own expense, reim- j
bursing itself from the proceeds of the I j
sale of donated lots. A pretentious city c
was planned and lots were sold by the j
government on the strength of this understanding.
For three-fourths of a t
century the nation violated or neglected t
the obligations which it had thus in- t
curred. In 1878 the government, which ,
had in the beginning impliedly under- ,
taken to meet all the expenses of capi- .
tal making and then shifted that bur- \
den, in the main, upon private citizens, .
d'ecided that justice required it to pay ^
one-half of the District's expenses.
From these facts two equities In 4
favo? of Washington's people and
against the nation arise: (1) For the
payment of much more than one-half
of the local community's capital making
expenditures from 1790, based on
the nation's undertaking to meet these c
expenses itself at the founding of the r
city; (2) for the repayment to Wash- t
ington of whatever its people had paid
more than the United States, applying r
to the past the half-and-half principle : t
of the organic act. j t
Study of the equitable foundations j .
upon which proportionate contribution } 1
toward capital maintenance by the na-Jc
tion is based brings the conviction that
no fixing of that proportion can be just
which ignores national neglects of obll- c
gatlons in the past in determining the a
equitable measure of proportionate con- ^
tribution for the future. s
While the nation up to 1878 exacted *
an excessive and oppressive contribu-: *
tion from the local taxpayers toward 1
the upbuilding of the capital, and since
that date has required all that could t
be equitably demanded, it has failed to f
carry out fully its own obligations to- '
ward the capital, having neglected c
these obligations for three-fourths of a e
century and not offering now to reim- r
burse payments made on its account i
during the season of neglect. h
Since justice requires that the gov-1
ernment should pay a certain propor-j^'
tion of District expenses now, both jus- i
tice and consistency demand that it J t
should pay the same proportion of the j t
expenses of the years of its indifference ! F
and neglect. \
t
Obligation Follows Power. l
The second obligation, that which is fc
coupled with and measured by the de- o
?1~ :-.l~ V. ? n, I r
gree 10 w ?**; ? v.. ^w??v?vlo llra
capital, is extraordinarily great in j
Washington's case. e
Obligation is coupled with power, i. c
e., financial obligation is coupled with r
political power. If the nation controls, j.
it pays; and to the extent that it con- "
trols, it pays. r
Washrngton is the only capital in
the world in which, if certain proposed c
policies prevail,/the nation would do all ir
of the controlling and none of the pay- j J
ing. 1'aris wants France to pay with- if
out controlling; some men would have , t
the United States control without pay, I 3
ing. 11
111 Canberra, the new capital to be of a
Australia, as supreme national control c
of the capital may be exemplified as in t
the case of Washington; but if so,
this condition will result from the i
fact that the nation will secure and
retain fee-simple title to all the land
in the federal district and will simply
lease to individual residents. Jt will
logically couple national government "
ownership with national government f
control in an interesting socialistic
experiment. In Washington, if certain
theories prevail, the nation will '
retain exclusive and complete control. ^
of the capital, equal to that of Can- t
berra, without extinguishing by pur- t
chase all individual title to property
and without even recognizing and ?
meeting the obligations which arise
from partial ownership and full con- a
trol. v
The organic act took away territorial 0
representation in Congress and terri- t
torial self-government and self-taxa- r
tion from the District and pledged the a
nation to meet one-half of the ap- t
proved expenses of capital maintenance i
(
im
md upbuilding- on a scale worthy of vl
he nation's city. *1"
The assumption and exercise of ab- b?
lolute and exclusive legislative power
vere coupled with recognition of a
^re-existing and continuing financial
>t>TTgation. The nation cannot equitably pi
-epudiate wholly or in part its financial ai
>bligation and retain or exercise its j -jj
iespotic and exclusive power to tax ;
md to govern. ^
The tiation should not repudiate its
lalf obligation in respect to capital
naintenance, for the logical sequence 0<
>f such action is surrender of all power t|,
md exclusive jurisdiction in respect
o the District of Columbia and the ta
iestruction of the nation-controlled
capital conceived and created by the b?
'orefathers. it
The nation should not diminish its IS
lalf contribution to capital upbuild- b<
ng; for the logical sequence of such P*
tction is surrender by the nation of ti<
control of the capital municipality to
he local majority stockholders. Power
tnd obligation are inseparably coupled, p1
ind if the latter is destroyed or dimin- j *n
shed the former is in equity de- i 1,1
troyed or diminished in proportion. j
It has, 1 think, been established by j ^
he hearing before the joint comipit- ?,
ee that, the nation's obligation both ' ^
o govern and to sustain and develop { .?
he National Capital is primary, domi- j .
luting and supreme. The primary re- .
(pomsihillty for the upbuilding, an well | *
?* the governing, of the capital 1m upon i f,
[he nation, and not, as Representative
Vohnnon believes, upon the people of }
tv afthtniffon.
Another Vital National Obligation.
In the exercise of this power to govrn
and to tax and in meeting this pe
uliar and heavy responsibility another ta
?bligation arises which requires the
tation through Congress to so tax the
inrepresented capital community as to <
educe to a minimum the violation of ! m
he American principle of self-taxation <n
hrough representatives, and to so leg- ^
slate in government of the capital ; yy)
ommunity as to give expression, when- ; Kp
:ver possible, to the reasonable wishes j na
>f the people in respe'ct to their local i
iffalrs, and to reduce to a minimum j
dotation of the American principle of
self-government through representa- m<
ives and the American doctrine of the th
lecessity that government shall have d
ho consent of the governed.
The capital obligation resting upon
he people of Washington adds to the oa
ull obligation of American citizenship, .
rhich Washingtonians gladly meet in '
ommon with all other Americans, the P?
ipecial obligation to obey the laws MH
nade for them and to pay the taxes ,
mposed upon them by a legislative
>ody in which they are not represented.
To reduce to a minimum the un- f
Americanism of this special obligation. "
t is recognized as an abstract proposi- 1
ion that the Washingtonian is entitled
o enjoy every American right and :
irivilege which is not inconsistent Jni
vith supreme control of its capital by
he nation through Congress. Since
ocal taxation is without representaion,
this principle requires the taxing f
?ody to recognize the 1 ight of the local **
ommunity to he heard and heeded in
espect to the collection and disburse- Hn
nents of the local taxes, and puts upon M*
t the obligation to impose upon itself a"
very safeguarding device against exessive
or unjust taxation of the un- Mtl
epresented.
Through the organic act the nation trI
reclaimed its intent to exercise this **v
upreme control of its capital and ,a'
ecognized its corresponding supreme
tbligation.
That it might exercise this supreme
ontrol. it took from the local commu- !"
lity the privilege of self-taxation. !
rhat its own taxation of the District:110
night not be unjust or excessive, but, as "J*
ar as practicable, approximating self- J
axation, the nation imposed upon it- ,
elf, as represented by Congrfess. the
lalf-and-half safeguard of the organic *<M
Let and the legal requirement that the !*?
tivilian Commissioners should be iden- ~}u
ifled with the local community. ^
Self-imposed Guaranty Against ilnl
Excessive Taxation.
; l?u
The half-and-half provision was thus!**"
iot only the definite expression of af- !iel
Irmative beneficence by the nation in *yl
nesting its supreme financial obligaion
in respect to the capital, but wai
ilno It* *elf-impo?ed guaranty, In proectlon
of a community from which It
ind Just taken scld-taxation. against IlH
xressive nnd unjust taxation by a body se'
n which It wn* not represented. on
The law which submitted to a consessional
committee the questions
yhich were finally answered in the act ha
?f 1878 is the same in its wording as to
hat under which the joint fiscal com- Pr<
nittee has acted. The same attention on
ihould be given now In legislating upon Re
he Joint committee's report na was On
riven then to the half-and-half pro- of
!PySj|(|publ'c)
'
?"" ;
;
rqvp^ ^ i
L^' ^ I
?
ision an a shield against oppression of
te unrepresented taxed. It should not
eonsldered merely as stating: a
andard of measurement of the naon's
capital henelleence.
The organic act being opened up, is
)ened in all its parts. If the half- i
id-half provision is to be repealed or i
Ldically changed, a definite and careillv
considered substitute should be 1
ovided not only by the enactment of 1
?w definite proportionate contribu- 1
ons by the nation and capital re- <
actively, but by the substitution of <
her equally effective safeguards for
iat which the half-and-half provision i
ipplies against excessive and unjust t
ixatlon of the unrepresented.
The same questions of equity are <
sfore Congress today as were before t
forty years ago. If the decision of <
178 against local self-taxation is to i
i reaffirmed, then its provision of ap oximate
self-taxation and of protecon
of the unrepresented against ex- i
;ssive and unjust taxation should be i (
affirmed with even greater emphasis ; ]
lan in the seventies. If the provision j ,
effect thut one half-contributor to ; *
ic municipal fund shall act alone upon ; (
tproprintion propositions initiated and ( .
ibrnitted bj- representatives of the I
Iter half Is to be repealed, then either
If-taxation should be restored to the
cn! community, or some device of inreet
representation in taxation through
le ose of the refe'rendum and recall j
tould be enacted, and voting represention
in Congress should be granted to
ie people of the District. 1
In the United States no tax can be
luitable which is imposed despotically ,
r a taxing body in which the taxed .
e unrepresented, without safeguards ;
gainst excessive taxation and without ]
vices to ascertain, in order that they ;
ay receive due consideration, the .
ews and wishes of the unrepresented
xed. 1
Greater or Littler Washington? J
Congress for the nation I* now deter- '
in Ins: the future of the National Capi- ,
1. Whether it Ik to he GREATER <
\SHI\GTO\ or littler Washington, It 1
ill embody the national idea and will (
rve as an index of the Ntrensth of ]
itional patriotic sentiment and of na- *
ma I prosperity and power.
Vo act of the forefathers furnished
ore convincing evidence of wise foreought
than the creation and general '
sign of the National Capital. What 1
ey planned the men of today are to
rry out with the enlargement* and
iprovementx befitting the greater reibllc
of the present time and necesry
to make the modern city In every
anch of municipal development a
?del capital. '
IVhat is done for the capital is done
r the nation and for the promotion of j
itional sentiment. At once the bond
d token of union the nationvw city and :
e spirit of American nationality are (
lertwined. Sincere and enthusiastic (
ve for country is what keeps alive j
c modern republic and gives it proxrity
and' glory. Both capital and na- <
?n have planted the roots of their t
istence in this patriotic sentiment, r
ie I nion and its peculiar residence ?
d part property, hallowed by every
soclation which can keep patriotism i
ive, rest upon the same supports. <
The national xentiiyent was never <
ronger than It is today. The whole <
public* thrills in response to the paiotic
impulse. The nation and whater
pertains to it are spelled in the
rgest type.
do not believe for an instant that 1
nerlcan sentiment will declare now or
er for a crippled and humiliated capil;
whose people are oppressed by '
rquitniile t?.\e* to which they have I
t aMNented and are Nhamed by un- j
ccMNury and un-Amrrican political ,
nubilities; or for a national city !
iumc material development Ik discredit- ,
le when compared with the broad far- {
ping plana of the forefatherw. I am ,
nvinced on the contrary that the t
ad red millionN of Americans of to- i
y would, if polled, decide that there ?
n be no more patriotic and ennobling \
?or than that which associates one's *
me with the illustrious forefathers in
veloping worthily and on an equitable
mIm the city of the Union, thereby taring
the national aentlment, realiiK'
the national aaplratlon and gratl[ng
the national pride.
-oinises to Make Good His Thefts.
'OL?EDO. August 17.?Constance Reud,
a Canadian for .whom police of
yeral cities searched for seven years
a charge of robbing a safe in a
tel where he was employed as clerk,
s been given a suspended sentence
Mansfield reformatory. Renaud
amised restitution, and was freed
the plea of his former employer. ;
naud was arrested at Amherstberg,
tario, while attending the funeral
his brother. 1
INFANTILE EPIDEMIC
CONFERENCE IS ON
Mystery of Paralysis Emphasized
at Meeting of Health
Authorities.
SECRETARY OF TREASURY
RECEIVES DELEGATES
Dr. Hazen Emerson of New York
Tell* of Terrible Ba.va.irei
x of Disease.
Concentrated testimony as to the
strikingly mysterious nature of infantile
paralysis was given by state health
officers from all parts of the United
states at the opening session this
morning of a conference called by the
public health service to discuss means
at combating the epidemic. Representatives
of practically all states of
the Union were welcomed by Secretary
McAdoo of the Treasury Department to
this, the first conference of its kind
*ver called by the public health service.
In the absence of Surgeon General
Blue, who is ill, Assistant Surgeon General
A. H. Glennan opened the conference
at the headquarters of the public
health service. The conference is expected
to last two days.
McAdoo for Co-Operation.
As state official after state official
made concise reports of the situation
regarding poliomyelitis, as the disease
exists in. their various states, it was
seen and realized by the physicians
present that truly infantile paralysis Is
a disease concerning which there is no
surety, and that the words of Secretary
McAdoo were more than true
when, in welcoming the delegates, he
dwelt particularly upon the importance
of co-operative effort by federal and
state authorities.
"The public health service is trying
to bring about a more intelligent com
oat witn tnis mysterious enemy, said
Secretary McAdoo. "I have great
hopes that you gentlemen will concert
some regulations which will be so reasonable
that they will impose the minimum
of discomfort and the maximum
of benefit.';
Reports of state officers show more
than 10,000 cases of infantile paralysis
in the United States. Outside of New
York, New Jersey, Connecticut and
Pennsylvania the situation is practically
normal. Aside from the vicinity of
Sew York city, wlTere more than 6,000
ases were reported since the outbreak
jf the epidemic in June, there was no
specific evidence that the transmission
of the disease could be traced back
:o the metropolis.
It was shown that the {treat maibrUg.
>f cases occur in persohs^leas thaff HI:een
years of age, but that the disease
?an and does occur in older persons, in
i seemingly most mysterious manner.
Dr. Emerson Reports.
Interest centered in the report of Dr.
feazen Emerson, health commissioner of
New York city. Dr. Emerson reported
>,652 cases of infantile paralysis there
since the outbreak of the plague, of;
which, to date, more than 1,400 had resulted
fatally.
"Parents cannot be too careful to have
i doctor called at the slightest sign of
illness in their children." warned Dr.
Emerson.
He also warned doctors to be suspicious
these days over the seeming slight ailings
of children, citing many cases of New
ifork mothers who brought their children
to the various milk centers, complaining
that their babies "had not been able to
lift their arms for the past few days."
rhese cases occurred. Dr. Emerson said,
n the various districts where the health
officials were most vigilant.
In almost dramatic contrast to the
truly terrible report of the delegate
from New York were reports of health
officers from various states of the midlie
west and far west, who reported
some seven, some twenty and thirty
uses of the disease in their states, less
ban recent years. Dr. Guy E. Manlinar
of California reported but four
ases in his state. I)r. W. P. Orr of
Delaware reported two cases, although
50 close to New York.
Situation in Washington.
Dr. Woodward of the District of
Columbia health office reported sixteen
:ases for the District of Columbia
tince July 1, from which two deaths
lave resulted. One case, he said, was
raced to New York, and the other to
y'ew Jersey In 1914 there were six
;ases of infantile paralysis in the Disrict.
No quarantine regulations have
>een established here as yet.
The relation of the "sweat shop" to
nfantile paralysis is a question which 1
Dr. J. N. McCormack of Kentucky |
asked the conference to consider. He
lee la red that while there are but eighteen
cases of the disease in Kentucky, j
le has an opinion that clothing from J
'sweat shops" may have something to !
lo with the spread of the disease and j
hat his fear is that there has not been |
igid enough supervision of these
;hops.
Reports were also heard from Dr. G.
Andrews of Alabama, Dr. C. W. Garrison
of Arkansas, Dr. Guy E. Manning
)f California and Dr. S. L. McKelvey
>f Colorado.
Reporting Delegates.
Reports were heard todav from the
'ollowing: Alabama, Dr. Glenn Anlrews;
Arizona. Dr. E. P. Palmer; Artansas,
Dr. C. W. Garrison; Colo/ado.
)r. S. R. J^Kelvey; Connecticut, Dr.
lolin T. Black; Delaware. Dr. A. E.
"rantz: District of Columbia, Dr. w. C.
A'oodward; Florida. Dr. .<. T. Porter;
llinois. Dr. C. St. Clair Drake; Indiana
Jr. W. F. King; Iotfa. Dr. Henry Allert;
Kentucky. Dr. A. T. McCormack;
.ouisiana, Dr. Oscar Dowllng; Maine
)r. A. C. Young; Maryland. Dr. John
; Fulton; AiassRcnusetts. ur. a h.
kicDaughlin; Michigan. Dr. John L.
(Continued on Second Page.)
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Senate i
Met at noon.
Debate on shipping bill resumed.
Naval conferees reach final
agreement on disputed section of
appropriation bill.
Announcement made that immigration
bill will be pressed at
this session.
House:
Not in session. Meets Friday. , 3
? W r sJ-4;
PRESIDENT CALLS
RAILROAD CHIEFS
INTOCONFERENCE
640 Chairmen of Big Brother
hoods Indicate Receptive
Attitude.
READY TO CONCEDE
ALL THAT IS FAIR
?
Invitation Extended to Men Who
Operate Roads to Talk
It Over.
?j . .
TRANSPORTATION MEN COMING
White House Seeking Direct Word .
With Those in Authority and
May Call on J. Fierpont
Morgan.
Admittedly "in a very receptive
1111MJU, LUC U^U tUltllHllLCClIlCn,
comprising the chairmen of all
four big brotherhoods on all the
225 railroad systems, filed into the
east room qf the W hite House
j this afternoon to hear direct from ,
President Wilson what terms he
advises they should accept to
avert the threatened strike, for
the general good of the country.
William G. Lee, president of
the Brotherhood of Railroad
Trainmen, voiced their attitude
and disposition to concede all
they believe right in an effort to
reach an agreement with the
railroads when he said: 4 .
"When the President tells us
what he believes just, as a result
of his investigations at this time,
he will find us ready to give the
utmost consideration to his proposition."
Xuugen' Attitude Doubtful.
< Judication that, while the employee new
seem to be disposed te accept the Preotdent's
proposals, the railroad managers
either feel unwilling or that they have
not sufficient authority, was given when
President Wilson today Invited the presidents
of the principal railroads of the
country to come to Washington immediately.
He wishes to present his views
and suggestions directly to them, as he
is, this afternoon, presenting them directly
to the entire committee who hold
! power of attorney for the 400,000 employee
concerned in the controversy.
Pending the arrival of the railway presidents
Mr. Wilson does not plan to confer
Xin with the managers' committee of
%teen. They are holding sessions today
behind locked doors.
In answer to the President's telegrams
a number of the railroad presidents are
leaving New York at 4 o'clock this afternoon.
Others are coming in special
trains from Chicago.
>
May Call in J. P. Morgan.
Intimations were dropped by a woll
informed man today that President
Wilson may Anally call in J. P. Morgan
if he finds the railroad presidents as
strongly set against granting the ^
eight-hour demand as the committee of
managers who are here. What the
President is aiming at now, it is said,
is to get in touch with the last authority
over the big railroads, and Mr.
Morgan is recognized as a real com
mander-in-chief of these forces, aided
by other high financiers in New York.
Such a move by the President would
give a sensational turn to the White
House efforts for settlement.
Another indication of the delicacy of
the situation was seen in the decision
at the White House not to make public
the President's remarks to the men, at
this time at least. It was first intended
to publish the President's statement
and then his statement to the managers,
thsu laying the case before the high
court of public opinion. It was believed
that while there was hope of moving
the committee of managers by appeal to
the presidents or the financiers, the ne|
gotiations would be kept confidential.
| The President sent the following teleI
gram to the leading railroad presidents:
| "Discussion of the matters involved in
[ the threatened railroad strike has
! reached a point which makes it highly
desirable that I should personally conI
fer with you at the earliest possible
moment, and with the presidents of any %
I other railways affected who may be im!
mediately accessible. Hope you can
make It convenient to come to Wash[
ington at once."
Bailway Presidents Sent For.
President Wilson's invitation was
sent to the following railroad presidents:
Daniel Willard. Baltimore and Ohio;
Samuel Rea, Pennsylvania; FairfaxHarrison,
Southern railway: Samuel
M. Felton, Chicago and Great Western;
George W. Stevens. Chesapeake
and Ohio; William Sproule, Southern
Pacific; E. E. Calvin. I'nion Pacific; L.
F. Loree, Delaware and Hudson; W. J.
Harahan, Seaboard Air Dine; Howard
Elliott, New Haven; B. F. Bush. Missouri
Pacific; A. H. Smith, New Yocit
Central; F. D. Underwood. Erie; William
H. Truesdale, Lackawanna; E. P.
Ripley, Santa Fe; R. H. Aishton, Chicago
and Northwestern; A. J. Earling,
Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul.
, President Willard of the Baltimore and
Ohio, who has often been spokesman for
railroad presidents on?other occasions
when they have come to Washington, was
telephoned to early this morning by Secretary
Tumulty regarding the invitation to
the railroad presidents. He promised to
do everything possible to arrange as large
a representation as posible.
In response to one sentence in the President's
telegram a number of railroad
presidents who did not personally receive
the telegram are Included In the delegation.
Hallway Chiefs on Way.
Those who will leave from New Tork
are A. H. Bmlth, president of the New
Tork Central; Frank Trumbull, chairman
of the Chesapeake and Ohio; Bealaastn
f. Bash, reoeiver ef the Mleessr|
I
