Bringing Up Father
Never Loses Its Keen Wit and
Delightful Humor
Sicfimtmii CimcS i
Frank Carpenter
Look for His Alaska Letter in
the Sunday I imes- Dispat ch
? FAIR
GERMAN TRENCHES
FOR THREE WIILES
TAKEN BY ALLIES1
French and British Strike
With Terrific Force on
Somme Front.
I"HPY DRIVE FORWARD
TO DEPTH GF 500 YARDS
Maurepas and Clery. Strategic
Points. Flanked on Both
Sides.
\STItim: fifl M.K.MONT KOAD
> (Tensive nl Snlotiikl Net* Allies
Hallway Stat ion and l**?ur
Villages.
l/.?NI'?ON, Amrust 16.? Tho ?? rench
tnd British, striking with terrific fore*
t- thre. directions on tlx* Soiniu'* front,
iiivft stormed n^firly three miles
'.erman trenches, driving forward at
.'?ltits to a depth of ,r> yard??
The moat important aiiins wrr" made
r.y thf British and French troop." sttik
tne north ?>r tin- i???51.? where tin* allied
i'li"- meet Mautopas and f.'lery. two
',f (h* j (tporta 11 points held hy
tho < >t 'i..! li ha v? liwn
flunked on both side.-. acordinK to the
official Htateno-nt is.-ticd I?t I'arts, i ho
road has; also been reached between
Mauropa-s and t.Iuillemont, tho latter
town being the immediate objective of
tho British This adv.if main
tained, brings tho allies directly in
rr.on' of t ho large railroad town of
< "oi'ihloH.
South of t ho .Sonimft 'ho French
? "itn<d Herman treifhi1-' over a loneth
? if .thont thre? -quarters of a mile, driv
ink- forward in a southerly direction
fron Belloy-en-Santerre. Paris reports
that a <otisi<ioral?I<- ntunher of ptis
? iwof?- lak' ti tti those 0|i< ratlon
i- o th- llrst tiino in many da> s no
hi.port art action is reported from the
front and th Si.me dearth of
i - >v- prevails In t ? sard to the 11allun
?.;? j. i:o?. The most 1111ore ? t iitu item
k,( news r> curding the lt;ilian advancs
tMt t Ti m - > ontained In a news
.. ?,.-)> from Milan, which sa\s that
i i 11 '.ops are to ho etnplo.ed in
t; ? ??a.-e of tho big Austrian port. If
:u;.itid. this moans that Italy and
? ? ,, \ ;,t last win enter an active
i . ! > i \\ a i .
i- r,"tlin reports tiphtinp. at
1 >< c.ii the S'alonlkl front, while
? ? ir.s ii,.it tin- allied forces have
, tin- ? the t 'lilt** ad station at Doiran
..ther villages.
i.l l< M \ \ I'tiSITIONS
in \i.i.i?-:??
I'M.IS. Vmcust 1<; The tntoiito al
ii I'ter a brisk combat, yo-day <!
lured a lii > of Herman tt ouches-on <
front of l.r.o-i mi it.- t" th-- north of
M ii' i>av ti the S'tniiU' ; ? - i ? ? * i. no.
(iitlii.u to the ? >'li< i a I cummiinic.tt ion
issued to-ni-ht.
Tho stii't un lit adds that the French
tfonps h< ' iiplod all the Herman posi
tions east of tio .Mauropas-? 'lei y ro.u!.
th:;t. " addition, lirrmail trenches
1 , o t - -1> loi u to tho south of B< 11o> -
on -Saiit- i t w? i > i-.?!?I 'ii ? d
The ? t a teuton t s follow .?
??'ii th- Somme front this afternoon
we launched an offensive which brought
u? Important trains. North of Maure
pas, assisted h\ the British, we cap
tured one entire line of Herman
trenches on n front of l.'.fio motors rep
resenting at certain points the Huil
jap out-Mat't epas road.
"South of Maurepas ori a front of
two kilometr-rs and to a depth of 3'">0
to 500 meters our infantry orcupied all
enemy positions east of the Manrepas
Clery road, after a sharp attack which
oost i lie enemy heavily. These two
operations, brilliantly and rapidly con
ducted. resulted in the capture of a
considerable nuni> r r of prisoners whose
numbers are not yet obtainable.
"\t the same time south of the.
Somme our troops, attacking with n
rush, captured a powerfully organized
system of Herman trenches on a length
of 1.200 meters south of Helloy-en-San
terre, capturing sixty prisoners. There
was an intermittent cannonade on the
remaindi r of the front."
\I.MI-:i) OI.'l-"i:.\SIV !?:
IN S M.O NIK I A II \ V \l KS
PARIS. August 1 ?The illieii forces
on the Saloniki front have captured tho
railroad station at Doiran and four
villages at othtir points 011 the front,
according to an o.'licial statement is
sued l>>- the French War Ofli -c to-:iight.
The statement covers continuous light
ing osleii'liiiK from August 1 to the
urefei t time. i
The statement shows tluit lite I >111 -
garians aro iieing engaged along prac
tically 1 miles of the Serbian-C?roek
frontier. The statement follows:
??operations of the army of the orient,
vtigiist 1 to August la: Frequent en
Vii-eiueiits f?f advance posts and p:i
t ;*ols on the whole front Irtve marked
Ins period, notably on August I. when
Hie Serbians took the village of Ucinpi.
near l.ake Presba. On August 7 detaclt
monts of the allies drove the J'tilgars
from tlie cemetery at ljiimnica. On
Atipusl French units took by as- j
sault the railroad station at Doiran and
the neighboring: Itiil -27. which tho
on- iny evacuated, leaving several dead
behind him.
??On August 13-la French fietach
nients took the villages of lsotka.
Pa I mis. Stikovo and Matnica. at the
foot of the chain of tho Beies. Ar
tillery actions, often very vigorous,
ha"e taken piano almost .daily, princi
pally in the region of Doiran.
"Our aviators bombarded concentra
tions of the enenly at Nicotic and Vol
ovee rtnd military works at Stretmicn
Station. Enemy airmen bombarded an
ambulance at Vertckop.
"A German oftlolnl statement on Au
gust I said that the Bui gars had had
(Continued on Second Page")
Senate Approves
Philippine Bill
Amendments Providing for Pro
hibition and Independence in
Four Years Stricken Out.
WASH I N O T O N. August 16.?The
Philippine bill, as reported from con
ference, with tho f'lark amendment,
providing for Independence of the
Islands within four years, was elimi
nated. but. containing a promise of
freedom whenever the Filipinos have
demonstrated their ability to maintain
a stable government, finally was ap
proved to-day by the Senate. The voto
' was to 22.
The Mouse is expected to approve the
conference measure within a few 'lays
and send It to til** President. It pro
vides for reorganization of the island
government, so as materially to extend
native control. A Senate amendment
for prohibition in the Islands was
striken out.
Senator Hitchcock, chairman of the
Philippine Committee, told the Senate
^ that the Independence and prohibition
[features had to l>e eliminate'], in order
to Ret an agreement for approval of
| th* bill at tins session. Senators I.ip
pett. Sterling and McLean made
speeches opposing the bill, and Senator
Horah said the elimination of the
Clark independence amendment dem
onstrated that the American people had
determined to keep the Philippines for
all time.
TURKS WOULD BE SUPREME
A rmenlmi*. Arnba and Oilier llncen in
Porte's Dominions Are llelng
Killed Off.
WASHINGTON*. August jr.?A re
iterated refusal of the Turkish govern
ment to permit American relief sup
plies to enter Syria, cabled to-day to
the State. Department, coupled with ves
i terday's dispatch announcing abolition
of the Armenian patriarchate in Tur
key and the recent execution of many
leading Arabs in connection with the
Mecca tevolt, is interpreted in official
circles here as indicating that vigorous
steps are being taken in the attempt to
consolidate the Turkish regime through
the weakening of the several other
racial elements of the country.
Abolition of the patriarclmte. which
hat) both religious and administrative
powers over the Armenians, is regarded
\ ax designed to break down Armenian
power and place all positions in the
[ hands of the Turks. Before the war
there were 1,750,00.? Armenians in Tur
key, but 7jn,000 are reported since to
have been killed and 'JSO.OO to have
fled. As a res.ill. Armenian power in
Turkey is though: to have been vntn. y
dissipated.
Many officials here believe the execu
tion of Arabs at the time of the recent
Mecca revolt indicates a further syste
matic campaign auainst other races ;iirl
in favor of the Turk
OAKES IS CONVICTED
11e U l-'nund Oullty of .\cce|?tliii& llribe*
From Illicit l.lquor
Dealers.
GIKAKD. ALA., August 1?City
Marshal John Oakes, of Girard, was
convicted at Seale, Ala., to-day on
charges of accepting bribes for the
protection of liquor dealers here and.
on testimony given at the trial, Mayor
Karl Morgan and City Clerk I. A.
Weaver were later arrested ?>ii similar
I charges. They were rel. a ed under
I bonds of $2.">00 each.
! The Girard ? 'Ity Council voted to tax
| illegal liquor venders in Girard $2*.
| a month, and instructed Oakes to col
| lect this amount, according to test
imony. Oakeji testified that the Council
i Instructed him to make these collec
i tions. and he admitted receiving money
! under these Instructions.
I Oakes was remanded to Jail to await
sentence. Conviction carries with ft
| a penitentiary term of from three to
' ten years.
Mayor Morgan and City Clerk Weaver,
summoned as witnesses at ' takes's
trial, testified that they did not know
| "blind tigers" w, re operating in Girard.
I Weaver testified that lie had issued a
number of licenses for pool rooms. A
number of names of persons to whom
licenses were issued could not be iden
tified by Weaver.
FIVE KILLED BY TRAIN
TwpnflHIi Century l,linl(eil frantic*
Into Automobile Hearing
Picnic Party.
EIjVRI A, O., August It!.?The New
York Central Twentieth Century I.im
! Ited train to-night crashed into an au
I tomobllc at a grade crossing in t lie
downtown section, killing four women
and a man. The victims were return
ing from a community picnic held by
the city at a near-by summer resort
According to witnesses, fhe crossing
gates were not down, and freight cars
standing on sidings obscured the view
so that the driver did not sec the
limited approaching. The train struck
the automobile squarely on the side
and smashed it into a tangled mass of
wreckage in which the women were
torn and mangled.
ELKUS SAILS TO-DAY
Ambassador to Turkey Will \rrhr In
( oiiNlatitlitople About Sep
tember I
XKW YORK, August 16.?Ahrijm I.
Klkus will said to-morrow on fhe
Oscar II. to take up his duties as
United States ambassador to Turkey.
He expects to arrive In Constantinople
about September 12. Tho Oscar II.
will land the American ambassador and
his family at Copenhagen, from which
port tliey will proceed lo Iterllu.
After four days at the German capi
tal, Mr. Klkus and his party will pro
ceed to Vienna, remaining there a few
days. He then will go to Constantino
ple, making a day's stop at Sofia.
[BRITISH UNABLE
10 BREAKTHROUGH
German Lines Are Holding. AI- i
though Some Territory
Is Lost.
BATTLE IS MURDEROUS
| Never Before Has World Seen
Such Conflict as That
on Somme.
'? h. It M A V TI!K\r|IKH OI'I'OSITR
ITI1K !><-?. rr I' \T f:< I.MMK
' 'Ot "HT, r? v -I I11.: SO.MM 10 FBONT. !
Monda v. Auk urn ]4 <v|? Berlin and
Sayvllle wire, ?. Autu't 10). Half a
i million British sn|,|iPr, have |)Pr.n on
gaged In tho ? ??. ,1 (? |j1(.
man linos ?in i |u- Si,mine front Often,
as in tlii- fiirlitin^ lif*t?<-in Gominocourt
"ohutor:.-. II- British ontnum- {
bered tho G, ,r - ix to T1|<?y 1
have Kii ined irrourid to a d-pth of
thro., to Hv.. over ;? front ..r about
eighteen ?? !<.. ,.r? h;iVft ,,(.r.n
able t?. !>ro.*i!. i|.t ?.? ji;h
IJKATII IIM.l < <? \| >m \ Pl. \< |;
IN >11 B IIKKll ITS IIATTI.T
More than ever. death has become a
eommonpla. o j? lllLs in,,Ht ,nur,p.r?u!,
battle of all tlI ... Tho , lormans i?
: the first lino know tiiat thoy prol.ablv
?A ill bo killed if their positions ;ir<< at
tacked Tr?-n in urc virtually useless,
for tlx heavy British shells widen them
into broad .haim-is, affording no cover ?
of any sort. The first line usuallv
j perishes.
The advancing British troops aro no
better off. because the Germans re- I
. verse the S? r ? -s wh-n part <?( th'ir
positions have !?? on captured After
the British artillery has lev,;1.<I the
<?erman trenches, infantry rushes
; in, often to he thrown out a tain as
so..n as the Briti-li artillery .eases lire,
which it has to 11?owiiiK jo th.- prox
imity of 111o opposijicr lines. Thus the
battle has been i,? ,,n fr.r weeks,
th- opposing f. ? r < e now gaining at
terrific cost aiyl then losing at even
greater cost u few yards of trenches.
At present all tho fighting by the Brit
i-li Is carried from their I'ozieres
?salient, where their drum tire is un
ceasing day or night. German officers
who wore in the I'hampagne offensive
said no such artillery fire ever had been
developed previously. The Clertnan tire,
too. is terrifl.v An Idea of its intensity
may bo pained from ?ho fact that on
certain British troops German suns
? throw 1.600 shells in one minute and |
forty-five seconds, resulting in irreat '
slant hter.
i>ii:s an moron i:
OKHM\\ SKI ON I) 1.1 \JZ ;
<>fien the British assault dies away,
before the German second line, from
which machine suns pour out streams '
of bullets which lit-rally cuts the men
into fragments At one p.:n*. the As
sociatod Press <'ori cspondent stood
with n *00 yards of the British
tr.-n.iies near Oelville wood. Ncar-hy
th. i;. riu.ir s had just buried l.USfi
Briti.-h, as lulls in the ilrini; permitted.
? ioine r.O'i British prisoners whom the
corrospond-nt sa w behind the firing
line plainly were still dazed from the
? shock. Tii. > were a sorry spectacle,
Kind thoy had .-s. aped from "hell,"' as
they termed it.
'b j.,mdent visited the entire
::?>nt ..f the present offensive, and
every wher- found from talks w;th ?;. r
nmns tlit they wore more dotermincd
than >'\ .? r i -. st;wid their ground. The
men are in capital shape physically
and of ensy mind, although they are
looking u p. .n death at each instant.
An officer pointed out that nowadays
each man is his own leader, as it is
often impossible under present battle'
conditions t>. transmit commands.
U'iule the cenornls might still plan tho '
: actions, the officer said, it was plain!
that the Infantryman, acting upon his :
i own initiative in the presence of death, '
must save the day.
NO HOt SI-:* I.KFT STAMIIVC
BI'.IIIM) (i KM MAN l.l\i;s
Back of the ij.'riiiiin linos within
British nrtillery range hardly a single
house was standing. Kmbers were still
hurniim in the ruins of two villages as
the correspond, ill passed through. Of
? lli-.-rs said i here were no German
: troops in such places, and that the vie- i
tims were mostly French civilians. Of'
these the correspondent stiw scores of;
j wounded. Whenever possible the tier- j
? mans removed these civilians, as at ?
Buoquoy. The population of this town
| wn? :'t - o'clock in the morn- j
iok. and the bombardment bc^uii at 5 [
I o'clock. By noon tho entire village I
was razed. The village of Kancourt i
met with a similar fate. The corres- j
I pomlcnt saw part of tho population
rushing for safety, and n few hours
later looked on the burning debris of i
the town.
British aviators have made several
j attempts to burn the gram crop, ap- 1
parently unmindful of the fact that it
belongs to Krench peasants, one a via- ;
tor, descending to S00 yards from the
I ground, threw bombs among a harvest- i
ing party, killing two Krench girls '
: and wounding others.
There is no safety anywhere m the
zone behind the front. What the artil- !
lory does not reach is exposed con
I stnntly to the bombs of aviators. I
While the correspondent was at Bugny
i eight civilians were killed. Kighlcen '
others were wounded, of whom four
| died in the German hospital the same
day. At t'ambrai four persons were i
killed and two w. re wounded on the
: same night. A French civilian pointed
out thai, while the Gorman soldiers
(have bombproof s in which to seek
I refuge, the civilians have only cellars,
lie begged that this he brought to the
(attention of the British military au
i thorities.
< allege Mei: Go In It'rnnl.
I'A It IS. August iii.?Twenty grad
uates of American universities, inclnd
j ing John 1.. Harrison, ot Charlottes
ville. Va.. have left for the tronl. as
members of the newly formed section
nine, of the American Ambulanco Field
Service.
Virginian Loses Life
in Defense of Girl
nao\v.\s\ HjI.e, ti:x? itum( in.
?lorporal .innica lli mrnl, < Coiu
P?.i y. Krroml MrRlnh, IteKlmcnt,
"a* M||?t mid killnl |?.rr t0?n,K,l(,
mill .Sofia Vnl.le/, ? Mexican ?lrf
via* probably fiUull.T ?v..iiii<I?>,I i.t
another nirpoml a**lKii?Ml to th?
qiiiirtrriniiHtcr'.s ?f (hr rpJfl||ll|,
n rm y. ,\ corporal. ,T|10 Rnv,.
?" ?us ,.,ir?.irri hv a
I.onho t wo 11111c.?? |pu||
l.nlcr lie ,,lr POun|r
J..II Niirri-mtrri-i|. ? or,.oral
' wh? I ivrnt.r-rlKlit
jonr.H of ?kc. eiupe fr?tl, Unrr,.t|_
? on. la., MlrxU<M| ,1T h|
? Idotv.
llrl.illvfM of tlr_
' * TT"" y|
ee a flrr -he reiiulMril
Vance* allege,I llMVf. bw| m|Hjp
' and ??allcij r,)r
nncc .1,,*, ?h , lrtnrn, ni>I,Pnrp?
??Id 11,e ?lrl. I?,,.,1BPKr?
opened ?r,.. %vo..,lt?llK (llr TO(
woman an,I kH||?K I ic.ienl
Dnncl.e* ,va? I.e.,, lhc
jail licrc* to-ni^hf.
?Mrs. T. \V. Kflnuiiuls |)ios |.roil, Iu.
juries Sustained in K?||
Tucker Sana tori ii in.
WIFK OF I>.\.\\lU,K PHYSICIAN*
U,,s Trentrd f,?- Nervous Dis
x ,,rilcv' I^np From Bnth
AV in<Ir>xv <?> second Floor
while in Irresponsible Condition.
Mrs. T. \\\ Edmunds. wife of a
Prominent UaiiMlle physician. leaped
"ff ,l pof.-li ;lt Tui
tori., in. v.Vst Franklin street.
??!> j e? to relay morning. an,I died at
the sanatorium at :t: to oVloek yester
day arternoo,, of a fractured' skull
A1 though she was being treated for
nervous trouble. Mrs. Kl,munda
parontly was ,ioinK well, and neither
her husband nor physicians at the
.sanatorium had deemed it necessary to
assign a special nurse to h*r D i?
supposed that she becam.. ncutelv
-or.,, about 7 o'clock yesterday morn
ing. and made the leap while in an
u i ??sponsible condition.
I'r. Edmunds. who brought his wife
to the hospital last Sunday, was noti
fied a his home in Danville early
estorday morning, and arrived in
,e'r "!Y yfslerdtty afternoon shortly
'? "i?* the death of bin wife. ne did
not attach any responsibility for the
tor7,V??M,Ce I0 ?mc,Ms nt ^na-'
riinn. and ?. oroner Taylor. who
Mewed the body yesterday mornlnc
deeme" an inquest unnecessary The
Eft,*;:!!?. "?
Physicians and nurses at the sana
tormm say that Mrs Cdmu.ids spent
vesl'^ nie'U UP l" a,,?ut 3 o\-\ovk
.. a>' morning, when she awoke
> )?? refused h sleeping potion, and re
ivio?k t", S,0,'|,? "taking again at ?
of milk 'T8C lh?n h?r " ?>"??
ot m lk and several crackers and
brought her slx-months-old infant in
The ,I,N,1 r,tur;:; J"
Its '-rib, and Mrs. Kdmunds's bath was
Prepared about 7 o'.-lork
?It MPS FltOM UIMiou TO
'IIMIIHTK WAI.KWAY
1 !' I"' the time she entered the bath
?mii, .irs. Edmunds apparently was
n excellent spirits and entirely ,a
lonal. she had barely o?,ered the
vever. before she removed a
> screen from a window opening on
ci,?e ,,??' . ?r a I"'rf'h ,ho M*tfl*oii
. f"10 of *I?? building and leaped
rom the roof i.> ihe ground, a dis
tance of about twenty feet. She struck
on a concrete walkway. It js believed
that her head struck first, as the only
abrasion was found near the baso of
tne skull.
An orderly was in the yard at the
fine, and saw .Mrs Kdmunds almost
as soon as: she struck the ground. Ho
Picked her up and carried her hack
into the sanatorium, notifying physi
cians at once. Everything possible
was done for Mrs. K.^nunds, but it was
!"'e" that she had been seriously in
jured. and Dr. H. R. Tin ker, head of
the institution, notified her husband Im
mediately that small hopes were enter
tained for her recovery.
?Mrs. Kdmunds had been in weak
physical condition for some time. Sev
eral deaths in her immediate family
during the last few years are said to
have contributed to her nervous state.
She bad given no indication of serious
mental trouble, however, and Dr. l'Jd-1
muuds bad informed Dr. Tucker that
be thought a special nurse unnecessary.
Ihe death of a baby girl several months
ntio is thought in have preyed on Mrs.
Edmunds's mind.
CONFEREES NEAR AGREEMENT
I' I'"I I 'leport n? Naval l*|.ro|. rial l?n
lllll May lie Uaile to
grcNM l?> !?'rlilay.
V\ ASi 11 X, ITm.V, August |?.?The
$:tla,S(iu.O0u naval appropriation bill en
tered the Una I legislative stage to-day.
Senate and House conferees resumed
their discussions of the eomparalively
minor items remaining in disagree
tnent, with prospects of a final report
to both houses, possibly by Friday. An
other session will be held to-morrow.
In the informal discussions to-day
??Kreeinent by the conferees upon an
nppi opriatlon of $?>,000,000 to equip
navy-yards for war craft construction
was forecast. The conferees, however,
?still are divided on the question of
which yards shall be equipped for im
mediate construction of capital ships
Acceptance of the Senate proposal for
investigation of sites for submarine
?n,I a?latlou bas-s on the Atlantic. I'a
cille and C.ulf Coasts, also appeared
probable. Tho House conferees were
said to he unyielding on the Senate
appropriation of Il.o00.00o for special
Improvements at the Charleston, S C
navy-yard.
Conductors and Motormen of
Surface Lines Threaten to
Quit "Forthwith."
THEY CHARGE BAD FAITH
Accuse Company of Having Dis
charged Union Employees
Indiscriminately.
NKW YORK. August 1?Another
strike ?>f conductors ;?n<l inotornien ,
cmployml by the New York Railways
Company will lie de-clared "fortliwith'v!
unless (lie company grants recognition
of the. union, according: to resolution
adopted at a mass-meeting of the men
to-night.
The resolution? of the carmen, after
authorizing their leaders to call a
I suspension of work on all lines of th?>
! New York Railways Company unless
, a satisfactory understanding can ba
reached to-morrow, devlares that tlio j
.company for four da> s past has failed
I to comply with requests for a confer-1
ence with the employees' committee.
The resolutions not only reiterate iIit
men's charges that the company Hi- .
j discriniinatelv discharged employees'
I who were active in the recent strike, [
but accuse the company of promoting!
j and encouraging; a plan of its own for j
; selecting committeemen to represent
the employees in the settlement of fu
ture grievances.
I DKMKS THAT COMPANY
HAS VIOI,ATl-:? AI.KMKMKNT
Theodore P. Shouts, president of the
Interborough Rapid Transit and the
New York Railways Companies, in a
letter addressed to-night to the Mayor
and Chairman Oscar Straus, denied \
| that his company had discharged work- !
! ers because of their affiliation with the
i carmen's union, and added that "In
many cases employees of this company1
1 have clearly violated the rules of this ?
company, some of the violations in-,
! creasing the hazard and endangering
the safety of passengers on our cars."
Since August V, Mr. Shouts said,
.forty-eight employees had been tils- j
charged from the New York Railways
Company. Twenty-eight, he declared, {
were dismissed for failure to turn in
fares, fourteen for having been ad
; judged guilty of crime, two for in
i subordination, two for drunkenness
1 and two for failure to report on time.
Whether there will be a renewal of
j the strike, together with a complete ,
j tie-up of the subway and elevated rail- |
j way lines In this city, as threatened in
i the employees' ultimatum, was said to
night to depend on the result of a eon
; ference to be held to-morrow morning
j between the men and officials of the
companies. The situation has become
! so acute that Mayor Mitchel and Oscar (
S. Straus, chairman of the Public Ser- j
vice Commission, are said to have been
summoned back to the city, the former J
from Plattsburg and the latter from !
Maine.
ARMY PLANS DELAYED
President Wilson fun l-'lnd .\i? Time
to Stern t orn missions
lit Oflleer*.
WASH INOTON, Aucust 1'V?Comple
tion of th?? reorganization measures au
thorized for the regular army in the
bill which became effective on July 1
is being delayed by the fact that Presi
dent Wilson has been unable to find
| time to sign the lliousr.ml or more of
i fleers' commissions which have accumu
I lated on his desk, t'ntil the conimis
| sions are signed Hie ofllcers have no
i authority to exercise the functions of
! their new rank.
The tax upon the President's time is
?co xre.it that army ofllcials have rcc
j ommended passage of a special act au
thorizing' delegation of the power to
, sicn commissions to some other person,
i That practice is followed in the land
; office, and it has been pointed out that
I if ati army of fif'i.fvfto volunteer." were
to be formed with its r.n.nnn ofllcers. '
lit would take the President, the Sec- j
retary of War and the Adjutant-Hen- 1
1 eral, the three ofllcials whose names !
must appear on commissions, nine full
working days each to carry out their
part in this purely routine matter.
MARTIN GOING ON STUMP
Senior Senator Hill Make \ctDe l-'iRlif
In !\lnfli District for
Trlnkle.
; WASHINGTON. IX C\. August 16.? !
(Senator Thomas S. "Martin will take an
I activo part in the Ninth Congressional
j District light in an effort to defeat C. j
1 Itascom Slemp and send a solid Demo
cratic delegation to the House from j
Virginia.
In a letter sent to-day to K Lee!
Trinkle, jho Democratic nominee in ,
I that district. Senator Martin stated that
he would not only assist in organizing
the entire district for Hie November!
j election, but that he would personally !
go on the stump in behalf of Mr.
Trinkle. In oilier words, this interest
on the part of Senator Martin indi-J
'rates clearly that the Ninth District
light will not be in any degree per
functory.
CZAR HONORS DR. EGBERT
I'onilfr Cleveland Physician \ p pulii I pel
llrlgadlrr-t.eneral in Army of
ItiiMNln.
CDKY KliAND, till 10, August D'.,~ I?r.
j Kdward II. lOgbert, formerly of Clevo
[ land, has been made a brigadier-geu
| eral in the Russian army for his ser
| vices as head of tho Reri Cross hos
pital unit which went to Russia early
in I he war.
Tho Czar recently conferred upon Dr.
Kgbert three deroralions, one of Ihein
being lhe highest given to those not
Russian-born.
Mrs. Margarnt. lOghcrt, of Washing
ton, mother of I*'. Kfibert, now visiting
friends here, told of her son's honors.
Prodigious Volume
of Shells Expended
British Are Lavishing Average
of / ,000.000 Shots a Day
on German Lines.
11KA I HJU A RTISRS uk !?: u M A N
ARMY GROUP ON TIIK SUM M K
KUuNT, Saturday. August 1. tvia Rer
lin to l.oiiuon, August 16.)?The ?jx- !
pci.diture .if artillery ammunition by
the entente allies on tliis front lias!
r-aichod a prodigious volume. often
striking tin- rate of thirty-two shells a !
s< i'oikI. ,\'ot infrequent t v along the en- !
tir? Solium; front nearly 00,000 have'
been dropped in an hour, while a con- '
.-<t va 11 vi- estimate put* the Average for
tin- twenty-four period at more than!
I j.niio.Ooi) shells.
With this rate of lire the financial !
cost oi tlx- offensive is naturally high.
What tl-.o approximate losses in human
I material amount to it is ilitlii'iilt to esti
mate. That the losses of the I'riiish in
certain actions have lieen frightful is
atlirmeil Py Herman oflicers, who, on
the i?th< r han?i. frankly admit that their
i own tos.-e.s have lieen far ftotn light
though .ill insist that they were not
| nearl.v so heavy as the UriUsh:
| The i;<M'inan expemliture in amrtiunl- I
tion has been much lighter than that
n' lh* I :ri t j si? for the reason that the
< Sennan artillery concentrates its ef
forts oil special objects such as
treaches, transports and reserve bases,
but the I.Sritish often screen off whole
.sectors, taking nightly iiiuler their]
nre aU the villages and roads hehiml the
tJerman lints within the ranee of their
g 11 IIS.
CALLS THEM TRAITORS
HiikIicm Tim* It ran tin Mm Who lliiild
l'p I'rl\ h te Fortunes aa<
Public K.\peiiMe.
PORTL?ANI >. ORIS., August 16.?
t'harles 10. Hughes, in an address to
the Portland Advertising Club, in
which lie advocated commercial pre
paredness for Kuropean competition
through the agcncy of a protective '
tariff, to-day branded as a traitor to
his country the man who sought to
build up his private fortune at pulille
expense.
Referring to the commercial prob
lems which the country will face after
the war. Mr. Ilughes said:
"We have got the basis for success.
\\ hat we now nerd is the motive power
of unswerving loyalty and a real con
sciousness of national unity which will
till us with a dominant, sense of
patriotic loyalty to the United States."
In speaking of preparedness, Mr.
Hughes said:
"1 desire to seo the United States
holding its head erect among the
peoples of the earth, not trembling,
not blustering, but ready for any emer
gency. We have in this country op
portunities that dazzle the imagina
tion."
These, said the nominee, could best
he developed under an ?flieient form of
government in the hands of men who
believed in protecting American in
dustries.
COUNTERFEITERS ARE FOILED
ICIclit \rre*t.?? 1'raanlrnte Conspiracy to
Mainiifnetn re 9I,0<H),000 in
5purloii* IIIIIn,
NKW YORK, August 16.? A con
spiracy to manufacture and circulate
$1,000.000 of counterfeit silver certifi
cates and United States treasury notes,
was frustrated here to-daj by William
.1. Klynn. chief of the government
secret service, and several of his as
sistants. Higlil arrests were made. A
complete' counterfeiting outfit was
found, consisting of photographic ap
paratus. lithographic presses, electro
typing outfit, paper and colored inks.
The schenio. the government agents
said they were informed, was to manu
facturer the $1,000,000 in spurious bills,
then destroy the plant before attempt
ing to dispose of the bogus money.
NEGROES TO SEE WILSON
DeleUu t ion of l.oynl < oloreal Democrats
l.uiiiii to Wlilte House I ndcr l.ead
er.ship of tillen II, Jackson.
W ASH IXC. TO N*. I). ('., August 16.?
Senator Thomas S. Martin to-day asked
the President to receive a delegation
of prominent negroes representing the
Hannibal National Democratic Ueague,
of which Giles It Jackson, of Richmond,
is the head. This organization has
pledged Itself to the support of Wilson
and Marshall for re-election, and re
quested Senator Martin to arrange for
an interview at the White Houso when
the delegation will personally assure
the President of its loyalty to the
Democratic ticket. The White House
will arrange the dale for this visit in
a few days.
HURRICANE WARNING ISSUED
Tropical siorm Centereil \rnr Western
t libit Inspected to Kilter
tiiilf of .Mexico,
W A S111 N( iTi >N, August It:. ?Warning
of hurricane winds to-night in the
Yucatan Channel, off the western end
of Cuba, was issued bv flic Weather
liureau A tropical storm was centered
near Western Cuba, and was expected
to move westward into the Gulf of
Mexico to-morrow.
A slight northward movement would
make it strike the Texas Coast.
GERMANY NEED NOT BEG
Should |S(ii lie Sentimental, ?>hj* Ite
veiitlotv, IteRiarillng
Holland.
AMSTERDAM, August 16.?Count von
Reveutlow, the German writer, says
in the Tageszeitung, regarding Hol
la ud;
"We should not lie too sentimental
ticrinany certainly has an Interest In
living in accord with Holland, but wo
must remember that wo arc a power
that need not beg. Wo can also re
fuse, as England docs."
WILSON EVOLVES
DEFINITE PLAN
10 AVERT STRIKE
He Will Submit It to Man
agers and Employees at
Conferences To-l)ay.
BASED ON CONCESSION
OF EIGHT-HOUR DAY TO MEN
Other Problems Are to Be In
vestigated by Federal
Commission.
Of TCOMK ST! I.I< IS DOUBTFUL
Hallways Tteninin Insistent 'Ihat
Troubles He Sottlcrl by
Arbttl'.Ht iosi.
! WASII IN? ;T?'?N. Anb ust 15.? Pre,si
i!.mi Wilson to-day completed a defi
nite plan for settlement of in" threat
ened ???it i<? t ? v\ j? -t ri lif, and w ,11
toil it to rpprcs^nliitivcn ot (lie mihuiI*
and employees to-morrow. Al
though administration otllclals said ne
Kott.itions vvi.tiM be coiitiniinl until a.
peacefuI solution was found, the out
come <>f 'he President's mediation is ex
pected to depend largely "n the atti
tude ot the two sides toward the plan
he lias drawn up.
The proposition framed by the Presi
dent. following conferences with the
managers and employees since .Mon
day morning, proposes that the rail
ways should concede the eight-hour
day. with an agreement that it will bo
observed. l.ater, it probably will bo
proposed that a Federal commission,
appointed by the President ?>r created
by Congress, investigate all problems
which have arisen during the present
discussion.
ATTITIIIK OK M\\\<;r.U>
is ciiif.f OUSTACI.K
The chief obstacle* in the way of ac
ceptance of the plan lies in the in
sistence of the railroad managers on
arbitration and their opposition to an
eight-hour day. and in the demand of
the employees for extra pay of time and
a half for overtime. Whether the two
sides will Rive in on those points con
stituted the chief danger in the situa
tion to-night. The. general committee
! of the employees, including 640 reprc
1 sentatives of the trainmen and en
i cinemen on the 225 railroad systems of
! the country, arrived here to-night in
I response to a summons by their sub
I committee, which has been meeting
with the President. The general com
mittee has plenary powers to accept
or reject any suggestion. The men. al
though refraining from discussing tho
plan of the President, said they thought
the outlook encouraging for a settle
ment.
At :t o'clock to-morrow afternoon tho
President will meet the entire general
committee of iHO in the Kast liootn of
the White Uoom and lay before it hi*
plan. lie will accompany it with a
statement appealing to their patriotism
and urging a compromise In ihe in
terest of the people of the nation.
While no time has been set for a
conference between tlx* managers' com
mittee ami the President, it is believed
probable it will take place to-morrow
morning.
When Mr. Wilson s -cs tho managers
he will make praci.cally the same state
ment ho will deliver to the employees,
paying particular attention, however,
to the points he thinks the managers
should concede.
< OMIM.KTKS PI,AN \T
COXFKHIONCK WITH CHAMBERS
The President completed his plan dur
ing a conference to-day with .lodge \V.
I.,. Chambers, of the Federal Board of
Mediation and Conciliation, who took to
the White House statistics compiled by
experts showing the probable cost to
the railroads of the granting of a basic
eight-hour day. Immediately after
wards Judge Chambers talked briefly
with the managers* committee. He did
not confer with the employees.
The conference b.tween the Presi
dent ami Judge Chambers was the only
formal meeting of the day in connec
tion with the situation. There were no
While Hour conferences with the man
agers ami employees pending the ar
rival of the brotherhoods' general com
mitter from New York and the draw
ing up of a definite pi in by Mr. Wilson,
jThe inanapers spent the day in in
i formal meetings ami conferences at
' their hotel. Tlx employees' repre
sentatives rested at their hotel, saying
they had nothing to confer about
among themselves
The President is depending largely
upon public opinion to force a settle
ment. Should the present method of
procedure seem about to fall. It was
thought probable to-day lie would take
the public into his confidence.
COMMISSION wot 1,1) nr.
aiii.i-: to <;f.t am. facts
Itiscussion of the crctation of a Fed
eral commission to investigate the r.nl
ro.nl situation centered largely to-day
around the contention that such a com
mission would be able to get all the
facts and be able to prevent a recur
rence of the present crisis. The Presi
dent has taken up with both sides aug
gestions as to the best way to make up
a ?inniissioit which would bo satls
i'a i ; or j.
The pii nctp.t I reason.-' advanced by
ihe in .n.'Kci - m insi^tlut: on arbitra
tion were their belief that the whole
prni. pie "f .trim i at ton is at stake -md
points made dining the consideration
of their recent petitions for a f> per
cent increase in freight rates. 'I lie In
lersiate Coinmer ?? Commission Inti
iiiiiioil a> that time that vv hen railroad
ofheials uave wage increases of their
own accord and without arbitration*
thev must bear tlx cons-uueueis.
l uring the dav the managers' com
mittee had experts at work compiling
data on the cost to the railroads of an
enght-hoiir day. This data they planned
\o present to tho President to uphold
