Iron County Rcgisur
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY.
State
SUBSCRIPTION: .
One Year, 1 1-50. Six Months, (0.75,
t
- RATES OF ADVERTISING v
furnished on Application. Special In-
ducementi to Home Patron.
Address Register, Ironton, Mo.
n 1 ' r r
ill
Historical SocW
P. P. AKE, Publisher.
OUR QOD, OUR COUNTRY AND TRUTH.
TERMS 11.50 -Yer in Advance.
VOLUME L.
IRONTON, MO., THURSDAY, AUGUST 17, 1916.
NUMBER 11.
JOB-WORK j
Beet equipped Job Print
ing establishment in this
section of the State. We
insure satisfaction; prices
reasonable.
sss-TRY US.
Dr. William sson on Hit Way West to ing poll books and notifying judges of
Recuperate, election, ss.
U IS Fitts, road district 8. 8281.76.
(Thursday's St. Louis Post-Dispatbh.) Geo D Bernard & Co, stationery and
The Rev. Dr. William J. Williamson, supplies for primary election, 8211.36.
former pastor ot the Third Baptist O R Crow & Bro, tiling for district
Church, departed on a WaDasn train 8, s4.bo.
at 9 o'clock this morning with a tick- G W Wallis, building levee in dis
et readiner to Kansas City, where hie trict 1, 825.
friends planned to have him meet his Ikon County Register, publishing
wife and two.cbllnren ana continue on ana stationery 910a.
to Denver to recuperate. , Wm R Edgar, Jr, salary aa prose
In a statement printed in tne ttepno- cuting attorney, jwou
Ho this morning, signed with his name,
Dr. Williamson was quoted as saying
that for months he had been a victim
of "the habit of drink;" that before
W E Westerman, road district 14,
550.
J W Sooggin, road district 1, $63.45.
Arthur Raft, county clerk, making
he knew it "alcohol had conquered tax books, 8638.59,
him." and that "through the provi- Gay & Kindell. supplies for poor. 89.
dential interposition of my brother in Fred Bell, stationery for primary,
Christ, Edward Card, l.have mastered ji.
it." - j G W Hanson, county auperintend-
Dr. W illiamson, Detorenis departure ent, $170; postage, s&.bu m
this morning, was seen by newspaper Ambrose King, road district 2, 850,
reporters at the Missouri Baptist Sani- Matthew Hart, cleaning up ec hooi
tarium, Taylor avenue ana uoaiamonc house lor primary, $i.ou.
tracks, where he has been a patient I - Tuesday, A ugust 8th,
tor several weeks, suffering from al- D W Paris, road district 3, 875,
coholism. He was in no mental con- IRA Dunn, road district 5. 875.
dition to make a coherent statement. Add Reese, supplies for poor, 830,
He said he remembered signing his Gay & Schwab, lumber and black
name to some manuscript that had smithing, 84.70.
been brought' to him by Bernard Ironton Telephone Company, ser
, Gruenstein, religious eaicor 01 tne its- vice May, June and July, 814.25.
. public and a personal inena, out mat
he did not remember what was in it.
When he was told that the Republic
statement quoted him as saying Mr. I current for July. 81.80,
Card, founder of the St. Louis City I Petition for the establishment of
Rescue Mission, helped him overcome voting precinct at Sabula denied
the liquor habit Williamson said WD Kendal, service-as Highway
'Card didn't save me, but religion Engineer, 975.
did." . I David Cureton, merchandise for
Dr. Williamson bade reporters, poor, $7.19.
some of whom were personal friends, Asher & Bates, lumber and labor on
an affectionate gooa-oye. two young 1 comns lor two poor persons, 87.50.
men who declined to give their names, I Dr P E Stafford, service for poor, 84
called for him lrr an automoDiie anu
took him to the train. His expenses
' on the trip are being made up by a
group of his friends.
The facts about Dr. Williamson's
condition were known to his close as
sociateB and pretty general in the city
although never made public, for the
Grover Lollar, awarded contract for
40 cords of wood at $2.75 per cord.
iron (Jo Electric Lt & Power Co,
W O Brooks, services for poor, $1.
E B Dutton, provisions for poor,
$10.
C W Holloman. district No 7, 8100.
Petition for special election to bond
county for road purposes, passed to
November term.
County Clerk ordered to notify all
past two years, during which he had I who are in arrears on account of inter
been before the publio in unusual ways est due on county school fund loans,
that unless same are paid by Septem
ber 6th, citations will be ordered is
sued
Joe Selinger, road district 4, 875
J M McClurg, road district 10, 8100.
Wednesday, August 9th,
P P RoBentreter, freight, etc, $11.72.
J lu wmtworth, supplies lor court
Two Iron Counlv Bovs to Have a tree house and poor, 829.60.
Week at Missouri State rair. Aurtnnr Huff, county cierK, aeputy
hire, 8150: tees, $35.35; postage,
statn Rnnerintendent Howard A. I Land and personal tax books, for
Gass announces that the State uoarci 1 lyiu approved and ordered turnea
of Agriculture has again made pro-1 over to Collector,
for a preacher.
He had been at BillMuldoon's train
ing farm at Purchase, N. Y., and had I
heen in a sanitarium at Battle Creek, I
Mich., before his resignation as pastor I
of the Third BaptiBt unurcn was an
nounced last April.
. vision for the Bovs State Fair School
to be held in connection with the
"Missouri State Fair at Sadalia, Septem
ber 23-30.
The State Fair School will be com
Road petition of Melvin Stuart, et
al, of district No. 17, passed until next
term.
Road District No. 8, for tiling, 831.50,
R A Rasche, canting up vote of
posed of two boys from each county I primary election, 83.00.
. mi Ifirt I XtT "KT TTnIr.l.t a
selected by a competitive examination
in Arithmetic, ueograpny ana Agri
culture. These bovs will be entertain
ed at the expense of the State Fair
Hoard. Tents, cots, meats, admission
to trrounds. grandstand and stock
navillion will be furnished free
A proeram of lectures and demon
titrations will be given in the fore
noon of each day. In- the afternoon
and evenines the boys will see the
sifirhts of the fair.
The county superintendent will give
the examination August 26 at his of
fice in Ironton. beginning at 10:00
o'plof'W A.M.
Boys between the ages of 13 and 17
on October 1, 1918, and who have not
attended are eligible. -Here is a chance
for a fine trip, an opportunity to see
a great State Fair, and all free to the I Ambrose King.
boys who win.
Boys, don't say "I can't;" perhaps
all the other fellows are saying that.
Don't be in the class that doesn't try,
W N Knight, same, $3. '
John Wood, road district 9, $307.05
State Hospital No. 4, care of insane,
8804.50.
Missouri School for Deaf, for care
Of deaf. $92.57.
Bank of Belleview Valley,- discount
on two lust named warrants, $10. yu.
Thursday, August 10th,
Settlement" made with County
Treasurer . '
T D Jones, county treasurer, salary
$30u; disbursing school money, $3i.sa;
postage, $41. bu.
11 a Jones, uounty Judge, $zu.
Add Reese, same, $22.
W A Townsend, same, 421. "
Wm Blue, waiting on county court,
School fund loan of $350 made to
Redmond Black, for right of way.
of
Order of sale in school fund loan
Wm. Warren.
Court adjourned until September
6th. '
'''''' f :
THE Texas Fonder cures kidney and
bladder troubles, dissolves gravel, cures
diabetes, weak and lame backs, rheuma
tism and all irregularities of the kklnoysand
blaihlM in both men and women. If not sold
by jour druggist, will be sent by mail on re
ceipt or 91. une smau nottio is two montus
tre,.tmf'Tit, and seldom fnils to Tierfect a cure.
Send lor testimonial from this and o:her
States. Dr. hi. w. Hall, aciti uuve street,
St. iiouls, Mo. told by unionists. auv.
County Court Proceedings.
Monday, Augu'St'7, 1916,
.furl cms and clerks of Primary elec
tion allowed. Ironton precinct, $3: all
nbher precincts. $2 eaoh,
Messengers of election allowed as
follows: W Hi mcnee, z.ou; xienry
Lewis. 82.30: Allen Markham, $1.75;
O W Holloman, $1.65; O L- Yount,
1.75: W N Knieht. $1: John Duree,
81: A T Sheahan, $1.50; Lem Logan,
2: J W Thompson, 82.50; W 1
Tiefenauer, $2; Redmond Black, $3;
A E Westerman, $3; D L Payne,
' John Stuart. 83. 1
The following were allowed 82 for
rent of polling places at the various
precincts: unas uamptuu, auuapuiioj
TL Morris, DeaArc; Wm O Huff,
n TT.ll. Ohar ITAiontli
jUunii'B; jrxuiiuiuuii uiud, wwgau,
, 1 th.. !.ir. nn T11-1 . T "NT
Hcnooiuisinot o. 01, run ., jy ' rn the circuit court of Iron County, Missouri
Khieht. Arcadia: Herman Amelung, in vacation. August 10. 1916.
n:it l.n,,h. Wm Rpnnrn. Oherman- I The state of Missouri, at the relation and to
. ,,m. wwirron BBlloviftw; Mary E theuseofB.P. Burnham, collector ol the
Shaner, Kaolin, School uistrict iz,
Redmond; school uisirict la, lien s;
school District 7. Love's: sago ur
nace Co. Bixbv. -
Graves & Stamp, supplies for the
primary election, $1.
Tual Bros, supplies for election, 70o.
A J Sheahan Granite Co, same, 35o
F M Adams, postage on poll books,
' 900. ' i
Geo Crocker, for road, $121.55.
, Andy Trask, for road work, $97
Hal Bell, f or road district 11, $136.61.
Order of Publication.
revenue ol Iron county, Missouri
aurainsi
Tampu W. TTnnnn flnri William R. WorlfiV.
living, or tne unKnownconsorw, neirsauu
devisees ol James W. Hanna and William
8. worloy, 11 they be dead, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien lor Taxes.)
Mow at this dav comes the olaintiil. B.
Rnrnham. collector of the revenue ol Iron
county, Missouri, and flies his petition and
affidavit, setunu ionn among oiuor mmgb,
that the aeienaanis,
.TnmnsW. Hanna and William 8. Worley,
livlnu. or the unknown consorts, heirs and
devisees of James W. Hanna and William H,
ivnriv. iitnev ne aeau. ,
are non-residents of the state olMissotrl
arri thnt thpv cannot he served wlthsum-
Ohas Allera Of Pilot Knob exempted mens in said state. It is, therefore, order
. , - i hv the cleric 01 tne circuit coun o:
irom roauworjt. n'mnntv. Missouri, in vacation, that
Jonn iviecey, roaa oistnct o, siuu.ui. ouuucation be made notifying said de
A T, Daniels. PUttins UP booths. 82. iendants that an action has been com
. -tr.iiA rH,A.K.iAA n..ui:u I mAtinpd bdh hint them In -the circuit couri
ivrunlliu V ttuoy uuwi uriDO, uuuiidu- I V . .7" .L" ar,np.l natlipn
ing official ballot primary election, ls to enforce the lieu ol the state
379.0B. " of Missouri on tne lonowing real anaie.
inoNiioiiNTYnEQisTER.iornuoi sn- ? . "?r.
ing list of nominations and primary TnB nortn nan 0t lot oi the southwest
leCtilUU UrtllUljO, OlU..1,UI . qumior ui bwuuii in, wnuninu .M .
E M Crisoo, road district va, iw.uu.
School fund loan ot i maae to A,,it.miS.i t.tnmt in th n.ture of a tax
Wm II Seal. I bill showing th smount of txei, Interest nd
AlvlnWft s road district 1. 1110.84. i0" aua 0D m r"' tr
Al Vr11 tVlfi T'J ft ' KM,. sfor6ld, .monntl-J in the aggrsgstt to ths sum
D xi umuiuu, i6 uf """"vi of eiarht nii oa iou dullam, u uleu yma ssiu
fl5.B0
St. Louis Bindery Co, supplies, 75o
Dr I A Marshall, oounty physician
817.60.
W T Keathley, board of paupers,
ISO.
Aroadla Valley Enterprise, publish
ing notice of Primary Election, $15.30
C R Crow & Bro. lime for Jail, $1.75
John Albert, 2 colllns for paupers,
810.
. St. Louis Biudery Co, stationery,
9ia.es. ,
Wm Blue, sheriff, Jioardino piison
ers, $155; taking Mrs. Sadie Brooks to
Asylum, $8.20; ousts in criminal cases,
8ic; expense courtnoase ana jau
2.7,r): walling on probate court,
vraitiDg on circuit court $12; deliver
netition as orovided by lftw.)
And nnless they bo and appear at ths next term
or earn oonrt to be nouion tor tn. oounty ot iron
nnd state of Minsouri, at tUe eourt boaae m aaj,
oounty on the fourth Monday in October nexi
i u i n. Ann on or oeiore tne i ura aav inereoi u
the term shall 10 long continue! and, If not, then
before the end ot toe term), ana pieaa, anwer
demur to aaid plaintiff's petition, the same will
taken an confeaied. iittlgment rendered In I
onrdance with the prayer of said petition, and
ania real etttate, or so mucn tnereot ai niy ue
necessary to satisfy said jmlRfnent, interoat and
ooite. be onld undor a auecial fieri faoias to be
Ik.nml t.hernnn. n
It is further ordered that ft copy hereof be
I pnhlitmeu according to law tn tne iron i;onnty
- I KeKinter a weekly newspaper pnbliehed in said
county of Iron, and sta'e of MiBionrl.
JESHK M. HAWKINH, Circuit Olerk.
A trne copv from the record:
I seal witneaa my hand and nfriclal seal, this
futk dayrf AiiRUFit, 11)1(1.
JKSNB M. UAWKINB, Clerk
Circuit Uouit, Itvu county. Mo.
Order of Publication.
Mis-
In the circuit court of Iron county,
souri, in vacation, Tune 27, I9I6.
The state of Missouri, at the relation and to
the use of B. P. Burnham, collector of
the revenue of Iron county, Missouri,
against
John E. Love, James E. Reese and D. B.
Beedle, and f rancis M. Mca.ee, u nv
ine: or the unknown consort,, heirs and
devisees of Francis M. McKee, if he be
dead, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes )
Now at this dav comes the plaintiff, B
, Burnham. collector of the revenue of
Iron county. Missouri, and files bis petition
and affidavit, settme forth among other
things, that the defendant,
Francis M. aicK.ee,
a non-resident of the state of Missouri,
and that he cannot be served with sum
mons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendant,
Francis M. McKee,
as not been heard ot tor many years;
that plaintiff is not informed whether he
living or dead; that it ne De neao,
heirs, or if he died leaving a will,
is devisees, are interested in the subject
matter of this petition : that the names of
such heirs or devisees, or both, cannot be
inserted herein because they are unknown
to plaintiff: that the said
John E. I-ove, James E. Reese, D. B.
Beedle and Francis M. McKee,
Lwere the record owners Of the land describ
ed herein, but plaintiff has no information
except as herein stated of the natute of the
interest and estate in said land owned Dy
said
John E. Love, James E. Reese, D. B.
Beedle and Francis M. Mcft.ee,
and therefore is unable to particularly de
scribe the same, and that in the event of
the death of the said
Francis M. McKee,
his said heirs and devisees have, by
descent or devise, succeeded to the said
interest and estate of the said
Francis M. Mckee,
from whom their interest in the property
herein described is derived. It is therefore,
ordered bv the clerk of the circuit court of
Iron countv. Missouri, in vacation that
Dublication be made notifying said defen
dants that an action has been commenced
against them in the circuit court of said
county, the object and general nature of
which is to enforce the lien ot the state ot
Missouri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendants for back
taxes for the years foi2, 1913, and i9l4,
to wit:
The west one-half of the northeas
quarter and the west one-half of the south
east quaiter of section 21, township 31,
north, of range east, 160 acres slid real
estate being in Iron county, Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature 01
a tax bill showing the amount of taxes,
interest and costs now due on said real
estate for the years aforesaid, amounting in
the aggregate to the sum of twenty-three
and t;i;-loo dollars, is filed with said
petition as provided by law.)
And unless thev De ana appear at tne
next term ot said court to be holden for the
county of Iron, and state of Missouri, at the
court house in said county on the fourth
Monday in October next, i9ib,andon or be
fore the third day thereof .(if the term shall
so long continue; and, if not, then before
the end ot the term;, and plead answer or
demur to said plaintiff s petition, the same
will be taken as confessed, judgment
rendered in accordance with the prayer of
said petition, and said real estate, or
much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy said judgment, interest and costs, be
sold under a special fieri facias to be issued
thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy hereof
be published according to law in the Iron
countv Register, a weekly newspaper pub
lished in said county of Iron and state of
Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk,
A true coov from the record :
TsealI Witness my band and official
seal, this 27th day of June,
1916.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo,
said real estate for the year aforesaid,
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of five and 87-iUO dollars, is filed
with said petition as provided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to be holden for
the county of Iron, and state of Mis
souri, at the court house in said county
on the fourth Monday in October next,
19i6, and on or before the third day
thereof (if , the term shall so long con.
tinue; and, if not, then before the end
of they term)-, and plead, answer or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interest and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weekly news
paper published in said county of Iron,
and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record:
SEAL Witness my hand and official
seal, this 29th day of June,
i916. '
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Inon county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county.
Missouri, in vacation. Tune 29, 1918,
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of is. F. Jtmrnnam
collector of jihe revenue of Iron coun
ty, Missouri,
against
W. H. Shelbv. if livine; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees ol
W. H. Shelby, if he De oeaa, aetena
ants.
f Action to Rnfnrce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham. collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
among other things, that the defendant.
. . w. h. sneiDy,
is a non-resident of the state of Mis
souri. and that he cannot be served
with summons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendant,
. W. H. Shelby,
has not been beard of for many years
that plaintiff is not informed whether
he be living ordead; that if he be
dead, his heirs, or if he died leaving
a will, his devisees, are interested in
the subject matter of this petition; that
the names of such heirs or aovisees, or
both, cannot be inserted herein because
they are unknown to plaintiff; that the
said
" W. H. Shelbv.
was the record ownor of the land
described herein, but plaintiff has no
information except as herein stated of
the nature of the interest and estate in
said land owned by said
W. H. Sholby,
and therefore is unable to particularly
describe the the same, and that in the
event 01 the death 01 tne said
. . ! W. H Rhfilbv.
his said heirs and devisees have, by
descent or devise, succeeded to the said
interest and estate of tne said
' W. H. Shelby.
from whom their interest in the prop
ertv herein described is derived. It i
therefore, ordered by the clerk of the
circuit court of Iron county, Missouri,
in vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendant that an ac
tion has been commenced against them
in the circuit court of said county, the
object and general nature of' which is
10 eniorce the lien 01 tne state 01 ivns'
souri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendant for back
taxes for the year 1DI4. to wit:
Lots 1 and 2 of the southwost quar
ter of section 30, township 34, north, of
range 2 east, 171.52 acres-said real
estate being in Iron county, Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxos, interest and costs now duo on
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, m vacation, June 27, 1916.
The state of Missouri, at the relation and
to the use of B. P. Burnham, collector of
the revenue of Iron county, Missouri,
'against
William H. Wolff and Wilhelnt Behren, if
living; or the unknown consort, heir and
devisees of Wilhelm Behren, if he be
dead, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff, B. P.
Burnham, collector of the revenue of Iron
:ounty, Missouri, and hies his petition and
affidavit, setting forth among other things,
that the defendant,
Wilhelm Behren,
a non-resident of the state of Missouri,
and that he cannot be served with sum
mons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendant,
Wilhelm Behren,
hna' nnr ripen heard nf for manv vears
that plaintiff is not informed whether he be
living or deacu that it he be dead, ms
heirs, or if he died leaving a will, their
devisees, are interested in the subject
matter of this petition-, that the names of
such heirs or devisees, or both, cannot be
inserted herein because they are unknown
to plaintiff; that the said 1
Wilhelm, Behren and VVilliaai II. Wolti,
were the record owners of the land describ
ed herein, but plaintiff has no information
except as herein stated of the nature of the
interest and estate in said land owned py
said
Wilhelm Behren and William H. Wolff.
and therefore is unable to particularly de
scribe the same, and that in the event of
the death of the said
Wilhelm Behren,
bis said heirs and devisees have, by de
scent or devise, succeeded to the said
interest and estate of the said
Wilbem Behren, ,
from whom their interest inline property
herein described is derived. It is therefore
'ordered by the clerk of the circuit court of
Iron county, Missouri, in vacation, that
publication be made notifying said defett'
dants that an action has been commenced
against them in' the circuit court of said
county, the object and general nature of
which is to enforce the lien of the state of
Missouri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendant for back
taxes for the years 19I3 and 1914, to wit:
Lots one, two, seven and eight in block
32 in th town of Pilot Knob, Missouri, as
the same appear on the plat of said town
of Pilot Knob, Mo., on ffle in the omce ol
the Recorder of Deeds for Iron county.
Mo., said real estate being in Iron county.
Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature of
tax bill showing the amount of taxes, inter
est and costs now due cn said real estate ior
the years aforesaid, amounting in the
aggregate to the sum of fourteen and 15-100
dollars, is hied with said petition as pro
vided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to be holden for the
county of Iron, and state of Missouri, at the
court house in said county on the fourth
Monday in October next, I916, and on or
before the third day thereof (if the term
shall so long continue; and, if not, then
before the end of the term), and plead,
answer or demur to said plaintiff's petition.
the same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real estate,
or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy said judgment, interest and costs, be
sold under a special hen facias to be issued
thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy hereof be
published according to law in the Iron
County Register, a weekly newspaper
published in said county of Iron, and state
of Missouri. 4
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record :
seal Witness my band and official
seal, this 27th day of June,
1916,
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
- Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
plat thereof on file in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds for Iron County,
Mo., subject to mineral reservation
made by Big Muddy Coal 4 Iton Com
pany in Book 52, page 118, Iron county
Land Records said real estate being
in Iron County, Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now due on
said real estate for the years aforesaid,
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of twenty and 7U-i0U dollars, is tiled with
said petition as provided by law.)
And unlPS3 they be and appear at
the next term of said court to be holden
for the county of Iron, and state of
Missouri, at the court house in said
county on the fourth Monday in Octo
ber next, 1910, and on or before the
third day thereof (if the term shall so
long continue; and, if not, then bofore
the end of the term), and plead, answer
or demur to said plaintiff's petition,
the same will be taken as confessed,
judgment rendered in accordance with
-the prayer of said petition, and said
real estate, or so mucn tnereoi as may
be necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interest and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy
hereof be published according to law
in the iron County Kegister, a weetiy
newspaper published in said county of
Iron, and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk.
A true copy from the recoord:
seal Witness my hand and of
ficial seal, this 29th day of
June; 19i6.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation, Juno 29, i9i6.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of a. i uurntiam,
collector of the revenue of Iron
county, Missouri, '
against
Sam Frank Taylor, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
Bam Frank Taylor if he be dead,
defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lion for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham. collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, sotting forth
among other things, that the defendants,
Sam Frank Taylor, if living; or the
unknown consort, heirs and doviseos of
Sam Frank Taylor, if he De dead.
are non-residents of tho state of Mis
souri, and that they cannot be served
witn summons m saia state; it is there
fore, ordered by the clerk of the cir.
cuit court of Iron county,' Missouri, in
vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an action
has been commenced against them in
the circuit court of said county, the
object and genoral naturo of which is
to eniorce the lien 01 tne styiie 01 mis.
souri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendants for back
taxxs for the years VAX, ii)12, 11) 1 3 and
1914. to wit:
Lot 19 in block 4 of J. II. York's
Subdivision "Arcadia Heights" as per
In the circuit court .of Iron county,
Missouri, in vacation, June 26, i9i6.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use 01 a, r, Burnham,
collector of the revenue of Iron coun
ty, Missouri,
' - against
J. R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
and William Campbell, if living; or
the unknown consorts, heirs and
devisees of J. R. Edmonds, Margaret
Campbell and William Campbell, if
they be dead; and C. E. Bolch and
Wm. Blue, Sheriff of Iron County,
Missouri, Trustee, defendants.
Now at this dav cornea the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
among other tnmgs, tnat tne aeienaanis,
K. Edmonds, Margaret campDen ana
William Campbell,
are non-residents of the state of Mis
souri, and that they cannot be served
with summons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendants,
J. R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
and William Campbell,
hare not been heard 01 lormany years;
that plaintiff is not informed whether
they De living or aeaa; tnat it ttiey
be dead, their heirs, or if they died
leaving a will, their devisees, are in
terested in the subject 'matter of this
petition; that the names of such neirs
or devisees, or both, cannot bo inserted
herein because the ' are tttjlnowa to
plaintiff ; that the said
J, R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
aud William Campbell and C. E. Bolch
and Wm. Blue, fcSherm 01 iron county,
Missouri, Trustee,
were the record owners 01 trie lana
described herein, but plaintiff has no
information except as herein statea 01
the nature of the interest and estate ii
said land owned by said
J. R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
and William Campbell, C. E. Bolch
and Wm. Blue, Sheriff of Iron County,
Missouri, Trustee,
and therefore is unable to particularly
describe the same, and that in the
event of the death of the said
J. R, Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
and William Campbell,
their said heirs and devisees have, by
descent or devise, succeeded to the said
interest and estate of the said
J. R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
and William Campoell,
from whom their interest in the pro-
nertv herein described is derived. It
is therefore, ordered by the clerk of the
circuit court of Iron county, Missouri,
in vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an
action has been commenced against
them in the circuit court of said county,
the obiect and eeneral naturo of which
is to enforce the lien of the state of
Missouri on the following real estate,
belonging to the said defendants for
back taxos lor tne year iai, to wit; .
The south one-half of the north one
half of the northwest quarter and the
south one-half of the north one-half of
ths northeast quarter of section 28,
township Si, north, of range 4 east. 80
acres said real estate Deing in iron
countv. Missouri.
(An itemizea statement in tne naiuie
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now aue on
said real estate for t"ne year aforesaid,
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of three and 33-100 dollars, is
filed with said petition as provided Dy
law.)
And unless they De ana appear at tne
rifiifc term of said court to be holden
for the county of Iron, and state of
Missouri, at the court, nouse in saia
county on the fourth Monday in Octo
ber next, 1916, and on or before the
third day thereof (11 tne terra snau bo
long continue; and, if not, then before
the end of the term), and plead, answer
or demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
same will be taken as oonfessed. judg
ment rendered ifi accordance With the
Julius H. York, if he be dead, de
fendants. (Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.;
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
among other things that the defendant,
Julius H. York, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
Julius H. York, if he be dead,
are non-residents of the state of Mis
souri, and that they cannot be served
with summons in said state : it is there
fore, ordered by the clerk of the cir
cuit court of Iron eounty, Missouri, in
vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an ac
tion has been commenced against them
in the circuit court of said county, the
object and general nature of which is
to enforce the lien of the state of Mis
souri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendants for back
taxes for the years 1912, i913andl9i4,
to wit:
All of lot 3 in block 2 of J. H. York's
Subdivision "Arcadia Heights" except
a piece out of the northwest corner of
said lot described: beginning at the
northwest corner of lot 3, thence with
the west line of same south 60 feet,
thence east parallel with the north line
of said lot 1D0 feet, thence northeast 45
degrees to north line of said lot, thence
west with said line to place of begin
ning: All subject to mineral reserva
tion made by Big Muddy Coal & Iron
Company in book 52 page I18, Iron
County Land Records said real estate
being in Iron county, Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now due on
the said real estatelor the years afore
said, amounting in the aggregate to
sum of fifteen and 30-100 dollars, is filed
with said petition as provided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at
next term of said court to be holden
for the county of Iron, and state of
Missouri, at the court house in said
county on the fourth Monday in Octo
ber next. 1916. and on or before the
third day thereof (if the term shall so
long continue; and, if not, then before
the end of the term), and plead, answer
or demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment, in
terest and costs, be sold under a special
fieri facias to De issuea tnereon.
It is further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weekly news
paper published in saidcou nty of Iron,
ana state 01 Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk
A true copy from the record:
seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 29th day of June,
rjiu.
, JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk ,
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
died leaving a will, their devisee, are interested
in the sahjert matter of this petition ; that the
namesof Rwh heirs or devieees. or bath, cannot
b inserted herein because they are unknown to
plaintiff : that the said ,
Alexander U. Hueagen and David Gorman,
were tne record nwnera of the land desenbed
herein, but plaintiff has no information ezeept ox
herein stated of the nature of the interest and
estate In aaid land owned by said
Alexander U. Huesgen and David Gorman,
and therefore is unable to particularly describe
the same, and that in the event of the death of
the said
Alexander H. Huessen and David Horman.
their said heirs and devisees have by descent or
devise, succeeded to the said interest and estate
of the said
Alexander H. Hneftcen and David (jorman,
from whom their interest in the property herein
described is derived. It is therefore ordered by
the clerk of the circuit court of Iron county, Mis-,
souri, in vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an action has been
commenced against them in the circuit eonrt of
said eounty, the object aud general nature of
wbicb. is to enterce tile Hen ot tne Btate ot Mis
souri, on the following real estate, belonging to
the said defendants for hack taxes for the year
1W14, to wit;
Ihe west one-half of the southwest quarter of
section 9, township 30, north, of range 3 east, 80
acres said real estate being In Iron county, Mis
souri.
(An itemized statement in the nature ot a tax
bill showing the amount of taxes, interest and
costs now due on said real estate for the year
aforesaid, amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of three and 82-100 dollars, is hied with said pe
tition as provided bv law. I
And unless tbev be and appear at the next term
of aaid court to be holden for the county of Iron,
and State of Missouri, at the court house in said
county on the fourth Monday in October next,
1916, and on or before the third day thereof (if
the term shall so long continue; and, if not, then
before the end of the term), and plead, answer, or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the same will be
taken as confessed, judgment rendered in accord
ance with the prayer of said petiton and said real
estate, or so mucn tnereot as may be necessary to
satisfy said judgment, interest and costs, be sold
under a special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy hereof be pub
lished according to law in the Iron County Reg
ister, a weekly newspaper published in said
oounty of Iron, and Btate of Missouri.
jassf, at. ha vviur-ia, uircmt uierx.
A true copy from the record:
Witness my hand aud official seal this 26th day
of June, 1916.
(SEAh) JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron Connty, Mo.
prayer of said petition, and aaid real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interest and costs, be sold undor a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It 18 lurtneroraereu inttuacupy irem
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weekly news
paper published in said county of Iron,
and slate of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record.
seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 26th day of June,
1916.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the circnlt court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation. June 29, i9i6. .
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of B. P. Burnham,
collector of tho rovenuo of Iron
county, Missouri,
aeainst
Juliua II. York, if living: or the un
known consort, heirs and dovisccs of
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, m vacation. Tune 20, 1016.
Tiits state of Missouri, at the relation and
tt net. .it K P Kurnhnm rn if-rtor
Ibf the reviMls of Iron county, Missouri, j
. orrloct - 1
Florence Dodge, ii living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees ot
Florence Dodge, if she be dead, de
fendants. (Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron countv. Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth among
other things, that the defendant,
Florence Dodge, it living; or tne un
known consort, heirs and devieses of
Florence Dodee. if she be dead.
are non-residents of the state of Missouri,
and that they cannot be served with
summons in said state;
It is therefore, ordered by the clerk of
the circuit court of Iron county, Missouri,
in vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an action
has beeu commenced against them in the
circuit court of suid county; the object
and general nature of which is to enforce
the lien of the state of Missouri on the
following real estate, belonging to the
said defendants for back taxes for the
years 1911, 1912, 1913 and 1914, to wit:
Lot 14 in block 6 of J. H. York's sub
division "Arcadia Heights" as per plat
thereof on file in the office of the Re
corder of Deeds for Iron County, Mis
souri; subject to mineral reservation
made bv Bie Muddv Coal Si Iron Corn-
Dan v in book S2. pace 118, Iron county
Land Records said real estate being in
Iron countv. Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of taxes,
interest and costs now due on said real
estate for the years aforesaid, amounting
in the aggregate to the sum of five and
So-100 dollars, is filed with said petition
as provided bv law.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to De holden tor
the countv of Iron, and state of Missouri,
at the court house in said county on the
fourth Monday in October next, 1916,
and on or before the third day thereof
(ff the term shall so long continue; and,
if not. then before the end of the term)
and plead, answer or demur to said
plaintiff's petition, the same will be taken
as confessed, judgment rendered in ao
cordance with the oraver of said petition
and said real estate, or so much thereof
as may be necessary to satisfy saia judg
ment, interest and costs, be sold under
a snecial fieri facias to be issued thereon,
It is further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weettiy news
paper published in said county of Iron,
and stale of Missouri.
"JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk,
. A true conv from the record:
seal Witness my hand and official
seal,' this 29th day of June,
1916.
, JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
Edith Westerman, Plaintiff,
against
EfEa Moser, Nettie Peaslee and My
ron m. itencenausen, aeienaants.
The State of Missouri, to the above
named Defendants (ireeting;
You are hereby notified that an
action has been commenced against
you in the Circuit Court of the Oounty
of iron, in the state of Missouri, lor
the purpose of securing a decree of
partition and order of sale for the
following described lands, to-wit;
bote three (3,) tour (i,) nve (5), six
(8,) twelve (12,) thirteen (13), four
teen (14,) fifteen (15,) and sixteen
(16,) in block sixteen (16,) and lotjjsix
(6) and seven (7) in block fourteen
(14;) all in the town of Pilot Knob,
Mo., as the same appear on the plat
of paid town of Pilot Knob, Mo., on
file in the office of the Recorder of
Deeds for Iron County, Missouri,which
aaid action iB returnable on the flrBt
day of the next term of said Court, to
be held at the Court House in the City
of Ironton, in the County of Iron and
State of Missouri, on the fourth Mon
day in October next, 1916, when and
where you may appear and defend
such, action; otherwise, plaintiff's pe
tition will L3ftakt,c aa confessed,Jand
udgment ren ierei accordingly,. - ,
lwis ortlerejtntt a copy hftSBOf be
duly published at least once a week
for 4 consecutive weeks in the Iron
County Register, a weekly news-.
paper duly printed, pnDiishea , ana
circulated in aaid Iron County, and
duly designated by plaintiff's attor
ney, and duly approved by aaid Clerk
as most likely to give notice to de
fendant, the last insertion to De at
least fifteen days before said next
term of said Court.
STATE OF MISSOURI, la.
COUNTY OP IRON. j
I, J. M. Hawkins, Clerk of the Cir
cuit Court of Iron County, Missouri,
hereby certify that the foregoing writ
ing if a full, true and complete copy of
notice of auit and the original Order of
Publication in said cause, aa fully aa
the same remains and appeara ot rec
ord in my office.
In Witness Whereof, I hereto sub
scribe my name and official signature
and hereto affix the seal of aaid Court
at my office in the City of Ironton,
Iron Oounty, Missouri, this 20th day
I SEAL J W JUly, 1910.
J. M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
Order of Publication.
In
In tbe Clronit Court of Iron County, Missouri,
vacation, June w. iwi.
The Btate of Missouri, at the relation and to the
nse of B. P. lturnham, colloowr of the revenue
of Iron oounty, Missouri,
against
Alexander If. Hnesgen; and David Gorman, If
living! or the nnknowu oonsorta, heirs and
devisees of Alexander H. Huesgon and David
(lormau, if they be dead, defendants,
(Action to Knforee Iden for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff, B. P. Bnrn
ham, collector of the revenue of Iron county, Mis
souri, end files his netition and elfidRvit, setting
forth among other things, that the defendants,
Alexander H, Hitesgsn and bavid Ctorman.
are non-residents of the stafe of Missouri, and that
they cannot lie served with summons in said state,
Vlainlill slates that fchodetpmianl.
al.mlir 11. lloesfren end David (lorman.
have not boen heard of for manv rears t that
plaintiff is not Informed whether they he living or
dead; that 11 they be dead, thai heirs, ol if they
NOTICE OP TRUSTEE'S SALE.
Whereas, Frank Sklebar and Victoria
Sidebar, his Tvlfe, by their certain deed of
truat, dated the 17th day of September 1913,
and recorded in book 62, at page 117, of Iron
County Land Records, conveyed to the un
dersiiiiied Trustee, the following described
real estate, situate, lying ana oeing in tne
Connty ot Iron, and State ol Missouri, to
wit:
The north part ol the southeast quarter of
the southeast quarter, and the northeast
part of the southwest quarter of the south
east quarter, all lu section 82, township 34,
mngol east, described as follows: Begin
ning at tne nomieast corner ot a tract oi
land deeded by "T, P. by Giles" Russell, a
distance oi about 51 rods north of the south
east corner of said section, township and
range, aud running north to within 17 ieet ot
the line dividing the southeast quarter ot
said section into quarters, about 28 rods,
thence running west parallel with the said
line about 112 rods, where it cuts the creek
known as Haydon's Branch, thence down
said creek to Us Junction with tho north
branch ot Stout's Creek, thence down Stout's
Creek to a forked sycamore tree, standing lu
tho divide of creek, thence running In the di
rection as shown on a plat attached to a deed
from James A. Hughes and wife to Eliza Sim
merman for said property; thence nearly
east to the place ol beginning, containing W.:iG
acres, more or less, and being a part ol the
same land conveyed by D.l. Martin to grant
or by deed, dated May 28th, 1881. and record
od In book T, page 525, Iron County, Missouri
records. The description in said deed Is
hereby referred to and made part hereof as
fully as if the same was copied herein so far
as the same rotates to the ground above de
scribed. Also two and flfty-hundredths
(2.5o) acres, lying lu the northwest corner of
of the southwest quarter of the southwost
quarter ot section 33, township 34, north,
raugo 4 east, being all that part of said
southwest quarter of southwest quarter ol
section 33, township 34, north, range 4 east,
which lies north and west ol Stout's Creek;
containing, in the aggregate, ai.wi acres,
more or less; a plat ot said land Is recorded
in book 27, on pago n, iron county rtccorus,
which is amo referred to for the puruose ol
determining the correct boundaries of the
land hereby conveyed;
Which conveyance was made to tbe un
dersigned trustee, in trust, to secure the pay
ment ot the certain promissory note, with
interest thereon, In said deed ol trust de
scribed :
And, whereas, default has been made In
the payment ol the Interest due on snid
promissory note, and the same remains past
due and unpaid;
Now, therefore, at the request of tbe legal
holder of the said note, I, ihe undersigned,
Wm. K. Edar, Junior, trustee In said deed
ol trust, will, oa
' Monday, August 3iI,.tO'6t
at the courthouse door In tho City of Iron
ton, Iron County, Missouri, btwnen tho
hours nf nine o'clock In the forenoon and
live o'clock In the afternoon of wild day,
proceed to sell tbe property hereinbefore de
scribed, at public vendue, to the hlirtn-nt
bidder, tor cash, for the puposeot satisfy.
Ing said Indebtedness and the the costs of
executing this trust.
' wm. r. KiMtAK, Junior, Trustee,
Ironton, Mo., July it, WW.
t
