ONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAE
8 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MOIiNINO, AUGUST 17, 191(5
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 91
21
JZ7
THE
ARIZ
o
French and British .Storm Somme Trenches
STRIKE WITH TEHHIFIGFOHGE
0NTIIREE1LES0FTRENCHES
ANDDRIIETRE GUMS B
Republican A. P. Leased Wire .
The French and Vintish. striking
with terrific force in three directions;
on the Somme front have stormed
n arly three miles of German trenches
driving forward at points to a depth
of 3oo to T.uO yards.
The must important gains were
made hy the Hritish and French troops
miiHiii; north on the point where the
tilln'J lines meet. Muurepas and
Clery, two of the most important
points held hy the Germans in this sec
tor, have been flanked on both sides,
according to the official statement is
Micd by I'ari.s. The road has been
reached between Maurepas and Gnil
lemont. the latter town being the im
mediate objective of the British. This
advance, if maintained, brings the al
lies directly in front of the large rail
road town of Combles.
Entente Allies
Capture Line of
German Trenches
I'ARIS, Aug. 16. The entente allies
after a brief combat today, captured a ;
line of German trenches on a front of!
n the Sme region" according to the .
official communication issued tonight.
The statement adds that the French i
triu.TM fiecimieil alt the German iosi
i. ,
...... .'.. ib. M,r.nli..l'lrv riuil
nnd that in addition German trenches ''te of 32 shells a second, during drum
!.;. meters long, to the south of 1- :! -N"t "f 'loe,illy along the
loy-Kn-Sanlerre. were captured. ! fconime front, nearly su.uuO sheila have
The allied forces on the Salonikl been ' ropped In an hour, while a con
front have captured the railroad sta- ' etvathe estimate put the average for
lion at Outrun and four villages at
other ioints on the Jron;. according to
an official statement issued Ijy the
French war office tonight. The state
ment covers continuous fighting ex
tending from August 1 to the present
I .me.
The statement shows that the Bul-
t-arians are being er,aged alnng prac-
tic-ally 100 miles of the Serbian-Greek rt;cers, wno on tne ottier nanu
frontier. " i f'ankly admit that their own losses
President Poincaire had a lonir con- ' have been far from light, though all
fidenlial conference with King George Insist that they were not nearly so
luring the British monarch's recent heavy as the British,
visit to the Somme front. The visit of The German expenditure In ammuiii
Ihe king and president to the fighting tion has been much lighter than that
line was co-incident with the arrival of the British, for the reason that the
f the German emperor on the German German urtiilery concentrates us ef-
front. I
.An oroer louna on a capiureu oer-
man officer gives details of the mill-
tury review which was held before the ,
miperor. The order directs that ex-;
bausted soldiers be sent to the rear, :
o that the emperor should see only
the best element of the troops. It also i
directs that those who fought at Ver
lun should occupy the first ranks.
A dispatch to the Havas Agency
from Geneva says:
"Reports received here from Ba
varia Indicate that there has been
ctrong approval or tne recent action j ,,,r,s received here. The frauds are
.f the foreign affairs committee of the Maid to Involve a half dozen leaders
Imperial bundesrath In approving the nd a hundred 'nccomplices. These
chancellor's action in avoiding a sub-, men ar Mld to hnve KrriUggled hun
marine issue with the I nited States. dred!, of ,or of wheat. rye and barley
The meetings of the foreign affairs flour rrom tne province of West Prus
cummite were presided over by Count ia to 1!pr1ini where it Was sold at a
von Hertling president of the P,a- rfit of ,hr hundred per cent.
vnnan council, whose officul organ, the :
lerr,ieres Nouvelles de Munich, says' . ... . . . ,
submarine warfare Is not Justified , '"niittee approved the chan-
when it places important political con
sideration in Jeopardy.
"This statement is accepted as sig
nifying that the UundesT&th's foreign
INTO RARO KNOT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. 16. Republi
can senate leaders an,d Senator (H.en,
ilrmratat, tied the legislative Res-ion
Into a hard knot today, threatening
the plans of administration leaders to
expedite the shipping workmens' com
pensation and revenue bills and as
sure an enrly adjournment of congress.
The obstacle interposed was the
Owen corrupt practices bill to limit
and regulate political contributions.
When Senator Fletcher sought an
agreement to vote on the shipping hill
Lit today, republican leaders demand
ed In return a promise from the ad-
tninlstiution forces that the corrupt
Practices' bill would not he pressed to
a vote before ad loiirnmert. Most of
the democrats were willing to give
such a promise. Inasmuch as it was
not In the Imperative program. They
found Senator Owen determined to
all his bill up some time before ad
journment and to demand a vote on
H no matter the result might be.
Senator Owens' attitude resulted in
a declaration by the republicans that;
they would not agree to any unanl- j
moos consent
request to fix o time
CORRUPT PRACTICES BILLTIES
for voting on either the shipping or. to white paper. . hers of the publishers' association,
revenue bills. He '.itor Owen there- . ' It . quite unueeossi.ary f.,r me to I Nevertheless, the committee has ten
upon announced that he also would point out to you that reductions In j fitivoly accepted it. Ho pointed out
refuse unanimous consent to fix a to- H.e of newspapers means pro-' that until the union fullv and coni
time to vote on the other bills as long portionate reductions In the number pletelv nccepts abitration-nnd is wifl
a opposition to taking uj. his measure , f members of your organization em- inK ti have all differences that con
Irersisted. t 1 1'1'"'''" bv newspaper publishers. I eern wages, hours of working and
That was the tangled ..tuntlon when 'nder these circumstance. It be- working conditions settled hv that
the senate adjourned tonight without ho.ves members of your union to means, there are a considerable nmri
a vote on the shii.pln bill . Some refnln from preying . demand fnr.Wr of members of the publishers'
sidnilnisiraiion leaders toought Presi- Increase n wages which will add ad- riisor lation ,whi will not lake the
dent Wilson line have to be appealed dltional burdens to those which) contract. '-'
South of the Summe tlie French
. ,,.m,i ,:,.,.,., trenches over length
of abnut three-quarters of a mile, driv
ing forward in a southerly direction
from Belloy-Kn-Santerre. i'aris re
ports that a considerable number of
prisoners were taken in these opera
tions.
For the first time in many days no
important action is reported from the
Russian front and the same dearth of
news prevails in reeard to the Italian
operations. The most interesting item
of news regarding the Italian advance
against Triest Is contained ill a news
dispatch from Milan, which says that
German troops are to be employed in
the defense of the big Austrian lmrt
If corroborated this means that Italy
and C.ermany at last will enter an nc
tive state of war.
Ammunition Is
Shot Thirty-Two
Shells to Second
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HEALxjLARTKRS OF GKRMAN
AU.MV GRul'F OF THE SOMMK
FKONT. Saturday Aug. 12. (Via Per
M'" ,'' "'
-The cxpendi-
lu,e 01 uiiuiuj
amniunition by the
cnunte allies on this front has reached
a IICdltCHiUS VO.I.'Uie,
often striking the
the iM-hour period at more than 1,-
i.t" !. hells. '
Willi tl.if rule of fire, the financial
cost of i;c offensive is naturally high.
Wia-l the approximate losses in hu
man material amount to, it is dltfi
cult to estimate. That the losses of
h- l'.ril'-b in certain actions have
been frightful is affirmed by German
forts , on special objects, such as
trenches, transports, ana reserve oases,
while the British often screen off'
whole sectors, taking nightly under '
their fire, all the villages and roads .
behind the German lines within the
range of their guns. j
I Reveals Food Frauds j
I THE HAGl'E. Auir. Id, (Via Iin-i
!don) The new Germfin "war usury j
bureau" has justified its existence by j
.levealing surprising details of widely j
I rammed rood frauds, acoromg to re-
cellor's course as the best means of
avoiding difficulties with the Cnlted
States and that the action of the
'Oontnur:l on r.te Two)
to if the way were to he cleared for
the shipping, revenue and workmens'
compensation bills, which would com-
SENATE SESSION
plete the legislative program. If Sen- ' " l,lt!m by tne German
alor Owen and republican leaders re a",hor'tieg.
main determined. It was declared con- 1 'H .next vlllaBe the correspond-
gress may be held in session indefin- ! J",1. 'th five men; aed
itely from Is to lt years. They said they
The revenue bill was reported from wcre earning their ull keep in addi
the finance committee today, but the to ,one to tnree francs dally hy
present plan is to pass both the ship- ?0li8 ,,ieee w"rk the, flirn"'- Tne
ulna- nnd workmen.' ". "L".V.. . '" Kd. they said, and their
bills before it is taken up.
Shouldn't Seek
During White Paper Crisis
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HALTI.MORE. Aug. 16. H. N. Kel
logg of the American Nevvupapcr
Publishers' Association. In nh address
to the International Typographical
Union this nftemoon, said:
"All publishers are disturbed at
' present hy the situation with munllrrn .ii.. .,ir,.. ...,..
HUGHES ASSAILS PHILLIPPIN
ANOTHER SPEAKING DATE
FOR COLONEL ROOSEVELT
I NEW YORK, Aug.. 1C Repub
I Moan hetidiiunt teis announced, to-j
I night, that Theodore Roosevelt
; would spenk at Hal lie t'reek I
I Michigan. September 3H. Tliis is
! the second campaign speech an- i
I nounccd for tiie colonel, the first I
i being at l.ewiston, Maine, Aug-'i
I ust 31. Onirics V. Fairbanks I
' wired thi.t he would be prepared I
I to take the stump as soon us he
had been noti'Pd of his noniina-
I tion. He was Inicked for two I
i days' speeches in Maine. Sep- I
1 t-mbcr and C. I
CI
BADLY TREATED
Republlcan A. P. Leased Wirel
A TOWN IN EASTERN Fit ANTE,
Tuesday, Augusht 15. (Via Berlin and
lxindon, August lti.) On account of
the protests of France against forcible
removal by German euthoritles of in
habitants of French elties in the occu
pied areas and representations that
hardships have resulted, a correspond
ent of the Associated Press investi
gated conditions under which civilians
from Lille, Turcoing and Roubaix,
quartered at various points in Eastern
France, are living. The German au
thorities afforded every facility for the
inquiry and permitted exuminution of
official documents dealing with the
subject. The proclamation posted by
the Germans In Lille, Ruubuix and
Turcoing said that since the English
blockade made the problem of feeding
the population of Belgium and the-bc-
PRISONERS IF
GERMANS NOT
copied part of rrance dally more dif-ito the president of the Illinois M.inu
ficult. and since a call to agricultural j facturers' association, in w hich it was
w orkers by the German authorities had aid that "it ought to be possible to
not been answered, the Germans were 1 make the question of dut.es merely a
obliged to move to the country certain innaiti.in nf itri.rri.Bii unit H..e..ti1'im-nr "
parts of the populate. The proclam- I
Htii.n u-nu nnulbil fin Ar.nl in nnA
ation was twisted on April 19. and at
midnight of April H the German troops
aroused the inhabitants in certain
quarters of the three towns, telling
them to assemble in front of their
houses. Officers Uien picked the fol
lowing persons for transiortatioii :
Males of military age or able-bodied
males who were not engaged in fixed
trades or other occupations: whole
families unemployed and without fi-
i nancial support, and unemployed fe
m;ii,.M In :.n u.u rh ,-ir,,,.ti,..
were to select persons familiar with
agricultural work Tlie women were
to do the cooking for the men or to
wink for other families
German officers in charge of the
transportation admit thai miKt;.ke.
were made in a good many instances
but these have since been rectified.
More than 2.000 men and women are
said to have returned to their kome
towns since the transportation move-
mem oegan
Nearly .1.000 persons were removed
from their homes. Those taken were
told that they would have ninety min
utes in which to pack sixty-five pounds
of household utensils and clothing. At
the expiration of that time they were
taken to the railroad station at about
2 o'clock In the morning and were ex
amined as to their fitness for farm
work. They were then permitted to
I re'urn to tneir homes with orders to
, rurn tu the station at 6 o'clock .in the
I aefoon to take trains for their des-
The correspondent visited four places
from Which rinrta r.f tha rw.r.n I u 1 1,.-.
I had been taken. Three were villages
in Eastern France and one was a camu
I for males of military age. In the first
village tne leader of those who had
been removed had many complaints.
He Bald the people he represented were
not suited for farm labor and thut
French farmers did not like to employ
them for that reason. He asserted
that the food was insufficient and the
fare was monotonous. In one house
the correspondent talked with one of
three girls. She said their treatment
naa "pen eood, but the villagers had
not mPloyed them, so they were not
carnl"K money and were living on ra-
(Continued on Pag Twoi
Increases
newspaper pul'lin'iers are now stag
gering under."
As to the arbitration agreement,
Mr. Kellogg said that there wero
t'ome tilings in the proposed new con
tract to go into effect at the expira
tion fit ihn nrpapnl Hirreement xvhieli
i am nni inATinw
nil! UULIurt U i
THERE BOH TO
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PORTLAND, Ore.. Aug. IB. t'harli
E. Hughes, before a large amlien: e in
the ice rink here tonight assailed the
democratic pat ty for its policy toward i
IIim PhiliimiriKB '
"We cannot afford, in this country,
to lose sight of national obligations."
Mr. Hughes said. "Our friends on the
other side were almost ready to say
that we should abandon the Philip
pines. That was a matter of national
honor. We asFiitned obligations there
which we are bound to discharge.
' It is not so much a matter of self
interest. I do not care so much, with
respect to the argument of self in
terest. But when this nation under
takes, before the wurid, a responsi
bility it must discharge it.
"And we ought not to consider the
-suggestion of scuttling out of the
Philippines to leave them In the pre
dicament which you know perfectly
well without my describing it.
"We need more of a sense of obliga
tion as individuals. If we have the
sense of national honor, a dominant
consciousness of national unity, an up
building policy of conserving the op
portunities of American enterprises,
we shall do well but we need still
more. We need, throughout our ad
ministrative del artmer.ts. high stand
ards of public work. We need effi
ciency In every department of Ameri
can government."
Mr. Hughes, speaking on the tariff.
referred to a letter written, he said.
by "an eminent democrat
on July IS
"i don't care whether this letter is
. . ..... , . . . ....
authentic or not." Air. Hughes said. 'If
it In not authentic, then the provision
of law is little more than a sham. If
it is authentic, it does not represent
the sentiment of the democratic
party
The nominee reiterated his argu
ments for a nrotective tariff, f ir coin
mercinl preparation for competition
with Europe after the wr.r, for "rea
sonable, adequate preparedness." and
repeated his declaration that the dem
ocratic party was opposed to national
progress.
' Why. if I were a member of that
'uirty and I speak with all good na
ture, because we are threshing things
out here now and looked throiurh the
platforms of the pfjst, I should feel I
was iroinir through a cemetery richly
embellished with monuments."
Mr. Hughes referred to the number
nf unemployed in 1S14. due Inrgely.' he
said to the I'nderwood tariff.
"Thev knew whv they were unem
ployed." he said. "Every one of them
was a tariff expert. There were 300.
000 unemployed tariff experts in the
city of New York alone.
"You can't put American working
men alongside of worklngmen of other
countries who work at less wages and
expect the American worklngmen to
survive. You have got to get down to
the common basis of co-operntfon
It Is perfectly Idle to suppose you run
have the American wage scale and the
American standard of roods and let
In poods made under a lower standard
of living without hurting American
enternrlses and American working
men." In reference to Alaska, Mr. Hughes
said :
"I would not hnve mm h confidence
In spnkinr of a new spirit In Ameri
can life if I did not believe. IiT the in
tegrity of the business men of
America. I believe that wo can do
things right in this country and de
velop our resources. You have got an
empire In Alaska: I want to see it de-
(Continued on Page Two)
o j
Planned to Make
Shove Million
of the "Queer
ft
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW. YORK, Aug. 1G. A con
spiracy to manufacture and circulate
$1,000,000 of counterfeit silver certifi
cates and United States treasury
notes was frustrated here today by
William J. Flynn, chief of the gov
ernment secret service, and several
of his assistants. Eight arrests were
made, after raids on a bouse tit Grant
City, Stuten Island, and one in East
Ninth street, this city. A complete
counterfeiting outfit was found, consisting--
of pnotographic apparatus,
lithographic presses, eleetrotyping,
etchintr tools, paper and colored ink.
An illkit wine and liquor blending
I hint also was unearthed. Two of
the men taken in cnslndy Were oper
ating this plant, it was alleged.
According to tne secret service
men, the counterfeiters nppirently are
well supplied with money, their outfit
ulnne having cost upward of $2000.
The scheme, the government ngen's
n.ilil they were informed, was to mn
nfiotpre the $1,000,000 in spurious
bll' i. then destroy the plant before
nttemplins to dispose of the bogus
money '.j , .
BE DISCHARGED
i
In Three
WOULD ABRIDGE MEN'S
FREEDOM
Republican A. P. Lezsed Wire
COI.ORAIH) SPRINGS, Colo., Aug.
10.- A d'-bate on the merits and de
merits of the Colorado industrial rela
tions act and the state industrial com
mission featured the meetings of the
Colorado Federation of Bahor here to
day and tonight. GraJit Hamilton,
member of Typographical Union Num
ber 4. an organizer for the Federation
is leading the fight for the repeal of
the measure and Mayne Williams,
member of the Industrial Commission,
is hen- to champion the act before the
delegates.
Hamilton declares that the measure
practically delegates the representa
tive of working people to a commis
sion that they have no ri'ht to strike
UllleSS the cumniissinn is l'iven thirtv i
days notice, and grants its consent,
and that it bars men and women from I
Republican A. P.. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. 11. What of
ficials regard as one of the most im
portant medical conferences in ti.e
country's history will meet here to
morrow to discuss means of combat
ting infantile paralysis.
Health authorities from thirty-eight
states, officials of the federal public
health service and many leading scien
tists will exchange views on methods
of treatment and preventatlon and will
work out a more definite scheme of
t-o-oidinating their campaign against
the disease. Representatives of vari
ous railroads will also bo present tor
the consultation on the question of
checking a further spread.
While officials haxe insisted that
there Is no occasion for panic and no
likelihood of a country-wide epidemic,
there is every indication that tlie
health service has become thoroughly
aroused by the persistence of the dis
ease in spite of the best efforts of lo
cal and federal officials. The outbreak
h:s presented many developments bat
tling to scientists and theie are ijues
tions relating to the origin, transmis
sion and control of the disease on
which authorities differ widely.
All of the subjects will be gone over
in detail at the conferences which
probably will last at least two days.
This statement regarding its purposes
was issued tonight at the treasury de
partment, which has the health ser
vice under its Jurisdiction.
The conference is made necessary
by the seriousness of the infantile
paralysis situation and is considered
one of the most Important conferences
of this sort ever held. Consideration
will be given to the preventtnn tf the
interstate spread of the disease, re
search problems, symptomatology, ep
idemiology, general principles of con
trol and the relation" of the after care
of infantile paralysis patients
One
REALTH HEADS
0F1ANTSTATES
STUDY PLAGOE
of the most Important points that will ; his home today at Baltimore! accord
come up for discussion undoubtedly j ing tl a mesage received by the New
(Continued on Page Two) Yoik Press club.
ANOTRER CAR STRIKE IN G0THA1
UNLESS IN'SDEINDS ARE 1ET
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NV YORK, Aug.' 1. Another
strike of conductors and motormen em
ployed by the New York Railways
Company will be declared "forthwith"
unless the company grants recogni
tion of the union, according to resolu
tions adopted at a meeting of the men
tonight.
The situation has become so acute
that Mayor Mitchell and Oscar 8.
Straus, chairman of the public service
commission, are said to have been
summoned back to the city, the former
from Pluttaburg and the latter from
Maine.
Theodore P. Shonts, president of the
Interboro Rapid Transit and the New
York Railways companies, in a letter
addressed to the mayor and Chiiirman
Straus tonight called attention to the
ultimatum delivereed to him by ,-the
employes' committee, which charged
that the New York' Railways company
had violated the agreement of August
7 which brought the strike on the sur
face car lines to an end. Mr. Shonts
denied that his company had discharg
ed workers because of their affiliation
j with the carmen's union and added
that "in many cases employes of this
company have clearly violated -the
rulos of this company, some of the vi
olations increasing tlie hazard and
endangering the safety of passengers
o nour cars."
The resolutions of the car men, af
ter authorizing tlieir leaders to call a
suspension tf work on all lines of the
New York Railways company unless a
Directions
J27
TO STRIKE
exercising the inalienable determina
tion to work or not to work.
"Another reason for labor's antag
onism to the law, Hamilton said,
that members of the c,.mmisi,.n mnu.
E POLICY
invade union meetings, thus depriving! rn up' , .
workers of the guarantee of the rights I , proposition framed by the
of free assembly, free press and free i 'reslde'lt following conferences with
speech. I have not found an individual Ve manaS-'s . and employes since
who can point out one good feature of ! -,Iondii v morning purposes that tho
this law. The idea behind it all is that :
the labor movement shall delegate its
rights to a commission and that com
mission shall dispense them at will."
Commissioner Williams said that he
believed the majority of laboring men
will eventually see the advantages to
accrue from the act, although at pres
ent one of the strongest obiections is
thi.t it uliriilkrou u nil ri.ulrainu lha r-iirhr
to strike and that anv such form of
compulsion, so-called is un-American.
NOT rj.'iMED
EXPLAINS IT
GQ1ISIN IS
i aging for a settlement.
At 3 o'clock tomorrow afternoon the
WASHINGTON, Aug.. 1C. An ex- president will meet the entire gen
ilanatoty note has been sent to Gen- pral committee of 40 in the east
eral Carranza regarding the delay in room of the White oHuse and lay
the selection of American commission- before them his plan. He will ac
ers to meet those chosen by the de company it with a statement, appeal
facto government. It is understood ing to their patriotism and urging a
to have been prompted by intima- : (ompromise in the interests of the.
tions that officials in Mexico City people of the nation,
had misunderstood the delay. The While no time has been f-et tr: a
communication is expected to have conference between the managers'
a reassiiring elfect while the presi- committee and the president, it is
dent is making his selections. j thought probable it will take place
Justice lliandeis and one other man tomorrow morning,
whose name never has been divulged, When Mr Wilson sees the man
have found it impossible to serve be- ligers he will make i.raoticHlK. fh
'cause of other duties. Secretary
.... ,
I .1 n u ?liw Ihirn mn n lu'ininnlH. l-u m l.
........ .. . . ....... ........,.. ..,... ei.iiuoyes, paying articular attention
ed. is understood to have accepted. to the points he feels the managers
Justice Hrandeis decision was not should concede. The president com
commi.nicatcd to the president until pl,.tPd his r,,.ln nuri a confemite
Monday and since that time Mr. W il- to,lrlv wth Ju,,Be Willlam I Cham
son s attention has been occupied t:ers pf the fed(Xra, boar1 f meUia.
almost wholly in efforts to avert the lion am, conciliation who took to
threatened railroad strike. It is ex- ,h Vvhit vt,,.. .
pected he will complete the Ameri
can membership, however, in the near
future.
Dispatches from General C.'.r za
to thi
Mexican embassy today C. me..'
s that General Jose Ro.,1- h:id
stories
revolted and said he is in Mexico
City in command of surrendered rebel
forces. General Carranza also stated
that the national mint was coining
large amounts of copper money and
shortly would start coinage pf silver
and gold. New crops being narvesled
are relievins hunger throughout
.Mexico, the d'spatch said. Fernandes
Coug"t, the new French minister, will
lie officially received by General
Carranra tomorrow.
"TDY'" HAMILTON DEAD
NEW YORK, Aug. Hi. Richard F.
Hamilton, formerly known as "Tody"
Hamilton, veteran newspaper man
unit for manv venrs nriws nenl tnr
tl tJa.lrrl P-iilov f.(r.nu Hiil of
satisfactory understanding can he
reached tomorrow declares the com
pany for four days past has failed to
comply with requests for a confer
ence with the employes' committee.
The resolutions not only reiterate the
men's charges that the company indis
criminately discharged employes who
were active in the recent strike, but ac
cuse the company of promoting and
encouraging a plan of its own for se
lecting committeemen to represent the
employes In the "settlement of future
disturbances.
Armenian Power in Turkey
Seems Entirely Dissipated
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. 16. A reiter
ated refusal of the Turkish govern
ment to permit American relief sup
plies to enter Syria cabled today to the
state department, coupled with yes
terday's dispatch announcing abolition
of the Armenian 1'atriachate in Tur
key and the recent execution of many
leading Arabs in connection with the
Mecca revolt is interpreted in official
circles here as Indicating that vigor
ous steps are being taken In tins, at
tempt to consolidate the Turkish re
gime through the weakening of the
several dther racial elements of the
country.
IN S IS. TO
CONCEDE EIGHT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ''
W'ASHXGTOV 111 T, ..lev
j President Wilson completed a defi
nite plan for settlement of the threat
ened nation-wide railroad strike, and
will submit it to representatives of
tne managers and employes tomor
row. Although administration offi
cials said negotiations would be con
tinued until a peaceful solution was
found, the outcome of the president's
mediation is expected to depend
largely upon the attitude of the two
ioaru i:ie plan ne nas
:, '" "'' .,'" ". u '-V'"-" lMe eiBiu-
hour work day. with an agreement
that it will be observed. Later it
probably will be proposed that a fed
eral commission, oppointed by the
president or created by congress, in
vestigate all problems which have
arisen during the present discussion.
The chief obstacles in tfie way of
acceptance or the plan lies in the In-
1fnB'.'i' the railroad managers on
''llr",V"". a their opposition to
' i0ui-iiui uat ami wie ucinailil
tor time and a half for overtime.
Whether the two sides will give in
on these points constituted the chief
fiangoi in the situation tonight.
The general committee of the em
'iloyes. including 640 representatives
I .f Gie trainmen and enginer.ien on
t the railroad systems of the coun
: try, arrived here tonight in response
j to a summons by their rub-commit-j
tee w hich has been meeting with the
! president. The general committee
las plenary powers to accept or re
ject any suggestion".
The men, although refraining from
discusting the plan of the president,
suid they thought the outlook encour--
same statement he will deliver to the
...... ......,L iic ..ill uciivri lu III'
1 i ;
..... .. iii'iii iMuimiua v ill lil
by experts showing the probable cost
to the rnilroarls of the granting a
basic eight -hour dav. ImmedUnelv
C. ... .. .1 T 1 . 11 1. .... ,
j ' j 1, ' , , . L "amn,ers 'K
wu.h thc managers' committee
nr. mivi nni viniit-i iiu; me employes
representatives.
The conference hetween the presi
dent and Judge Chambers was the
only formal meeting of the dav In
connection with the situation. There
wore no White House conferences
with managers nnd the employes,
pending the arrival of the brother
hoods' general committee from New
York nnd the drawing up of a defi
nite plan by Mr. Wilson. The man
igers spent the dav in informal meet
ings and conferences .yt their hotel.
The employes' representatives rested
at their hotel, saving they had noth
ing to confer about among them
selves. The president is depending largelv
on public opinion to force a settle
ment. Should the present method of
procedure seem' a.bout to fail, it was
thought probable today he would take
the public into his confidence.
Discussion of the creation of a fed
eral commission to investigate the
railroad situation centered largely to
day around the contention of railroad
officials that such a commission
would be able to get at all the fact
and bo able to prevent a recurrence
of the present crisis.
The president has taken up with
both sides suggestion as to the best way
to make uo a commission which
would be satisfactory.
The principal reasons advanced by
the managers in insisting on arbitra
tion weretheir helief that the whole
principle of arhitrasWn is at staki,
and points made during the consid
eration of their recent petitions for a
five per cent increase in freight
rates. The Interstate commerce com
mission intimated at that time that
when railroad officials gave wage
increase of their own accord -and
without arbitration they must bear
the consequences.
Purine the dav the managers'
(Continued on Page Two)
Abolition of the Patriachate, which
had both religious and administrative
powers over the Armenians, is regard
ed as designed to break down Armen
ian power and place all positions in
the hands of the Turks. Before the
war, there were 1,750,000 Armenians in
Turkey, but 750.000 are reported since
to have been killed and 250,000 to have
fled. As a result Armenian power in
Turkey Is thought to have been en
tirely dissipated. '
Many offi'cials here believe the exe
cution of Arabs at the time of the re
cent Mecca revolt indicates further a
systematic campaign against other
races and in favor of the Turk. -
HOUR WORK DAY
'1
