ih IXC. NEW SBRI13S VOL. LXIII.
BURLINGTON, VERMONT, THURSDAY, AUGUST 17, 191G.
NUMBER
i.
ENTE ALLIES
GERMAN LIS
ARD IN 3 PLACES
c Miles of Trenches Storm-
in Terrific Drive on Sommc
Attackers Push Forward to
pth of 100 Yards.
SSIAN FRONT IS QUIET
nans Will Assist in Defense
Triest, Actually Entering
lar against Italy Allies on
lloniki Front Capture Sta
in at Doiran.
Idnn, -iipr 10. Tim French nnd
111 striking with tcrrlllc force in
dlir turns on tin1 Somme front,
storm-d neniiv thico miles nf
Inn tiriuhi", diiving forward nt
to a lt ptii cf 300 to fiOO yards.
most important gains wero
liy tlx Hi i ish and French troops
lug no 'I f'- in thr point where
filled lines mort, Mnuiopas nnd
tw i r r the most importnnt points
by tl o Germans In this sector,
born flu kid on lioth sides, uo-
lig to th' ili ial statement issued
'aris Tl.i r mil has also boon
led IkIm in M niri pas and Ouillo-
tlir It' i 1 t n being tho iinnie
objoctnc .f the British. This
lice, If maintain! d, brings the nl-
hircctly n iront of the large rail-
town .f (' mldi -
litll of the S .mine the French
lied rirrman trrnches over n length
lout thn c-qiini tors of a mile, drlv-
p'orward in a southerly direction
Brlloy-Ln Santirio. Paris ro
thnt a considerable ntiinher of
Incrs wen taken in those opera -
the first time in ninny days no
Irtnnt artlnn is reported from the
ian front and the same dearth of
prevails in regard to the Italian
litlons. The most interesting Item
's regarding the Italinn advance
list Tries t is contained in a news
I itch from Milan which says thai
ian troops are to be employed In
llffenso of the big Austrian port.
rrr boratrd this means that Italy
Of rinany will at last enter an
lo state of win.
allied forces on tho Salonlki
have captmed the railroad sta-
at Doiran and four villages at
points on the front, according to
IfTlcial statement issued by tho
Ich war oillce at Paris. The state-
i'ovi i continuous fighting ox-
tng fn m ugist 1 to the present
It shows that the liulgarlans
Ilieing (ligigfd along practically
mllfs if tl.i Sr rbian-Greok fron-
The ttt if the statemi nt fol-
Iprrnttons of the army of the
I it, iigusl t to August 1,1: Fre
' rngagrmrnts of ndvance posts
patnls on the whole, front have
ked tl Is period, notably on August
llien the St rblans took the village
llti iiipi n ar hake Presba. On
list 7 di tachinrnts of the allies
lb' H ilfc.it s from the cemetery
I.Juninli i (in August 10 Ficnch
t irk h assault the rnllioad sta-
lat Doiran aiul the neighboring hill
Ivhich the enrn.v evacuated, leaving
al dr. id in hmd him.
In ugust n 1.". French detach
es trmk the villages of Potka, Pnl-
Suhi i and Matnlca, at the foot
llir ("I iui of the Deles. Artillirv
ns offn vry vigorous, have
In ph.ie almost dally, principally
ic rrglnn of Doiran."
7 HAVE DIED OF
INFANTILE PARALYSIS
hi Number if CnNcn lli-norlrii In
Nnv ork Will.-.
Iw York. Aug. 16,- While Sentem-
l:.r. was set to-day as tho tentative
for opening tho nubile schools of
I city, postponed from Pentemher 11
Iuso of the epidemic of liifantilo
lysis, Health Commissioner Haven
rsnn said It was by no means cor-
N'nw York's 1,000,000 school chll
under Ifi years of ago could ro
n their studies as earlv as thai.
Iiother decrease in deaths nnd new
Is to-day encouraged tho hcnlth au-
lltles. There wero ,11 dentin, in.
and 113 new cases, ninklntr thn
It fatalities 1.197, and tho total
Is cr,zr,.
Iwenty-two patients were
b-ged from hospitals to-day as ro-
ererl
Ihe Rockefeller Institute rllscln
Imported "corner on monkeys" for
erimental purposes, the officials
ling that the Institute has been un
to acquire enough of tho animals
I its own pathological work.
Ilbany, K Y Aug. Hi. The ep.
hie of infantile naralvsls cunt Inueil
larontly unchecked on Dong Island
up-ftnto tn-iiay, ruiy atiiiiiional
nnd three ucntlis outslrlo New
Ik eitv tielnrr renorted to tho Htlitn
Iartment of health during tho 21
ra nti,llir- nt f.-Ofl II. 111. Pn til to.
I lit the department had received ro
ts of 1,133 cases and 14S deaths.
PN'nnnPAss coMPiiirrnn.
Irattleboro, Aug. HI. Tho public.
I'lce commission has ordered that
underpass nnd connecting section
liubllc highwny in the town of Wal
be nccopted and opened for public
vol. nnd that the railroad highway
Isslng nt thn grade described In tho
limls'loii's order and tho public
Ihway lying within tho railroad
lit of way bo discontinued.
PRESIDENT WILSON
COMPLETES PLAN TO
AVERT BIG STRIKE
His Proposition Is That
cede 8-Hour Work Day
It Will Be Observed Federal Commission
Will Be Suggested to Mediate Other Prob
lem President's Plan Will Be Submitted to
the Employers and Employes To-day.
AVaf-hlngton, Aug. 1C -President WI!on
to-day completed a dellnlte plan for set
tlement of the threatened nation-wide
railroad strike and will mihnilt It to rep
resentatives of tho mnnageis and em
ployes to-morrow. Although administra
tion ollieiiUs said negotiations would be
continued until a peaceful solution was
found, the outcome of the President's me
diation Is expected to depend largely on
the attitude of tlin two sides towaiu the
plan he has, diiiwn up.
Tin- proposition framed by the President
following conferences with the managers
and employes since Mnndnv morning pro
poses that the railways should concede
the eight-hour work dnv, with an agree
ment that It will be observed Later It
probably will be proposed that a federal
commission appointed by the Preslnent or
created by Congress Investigate all prob
lems which havo arisen during Up. pr-sent
discussion.
The chief obstacles In the way of
acceptance of the plan lies In the In
sistence of the railroad managers on
u-bltratlon and their opposition to nn
eight-hour day, nnd In the demand of"'un "'cord and without at nitration
the employes for extra pay of time and 1 t,u'-v must bear the cnnseiiuences.
a half for over-liine. Whether the two ' Duiing the day tho managers' rorn
sides will give in on these points con- ! mittee had experts at work comulllng
stltuted the chief danger In tho sltua-' lln,;1 "" ' ""t to the railroads of an
Hon to-night. 1 eight hour day. This data they planned
The general committee of the "in-'10 present to the President to uphold
ployes, Including 1)40 representatives their position. H was anticipated that
of tho trainmen and enginomen on the I the mummers would not give a decision
-25 railroad systems of the count ry, on the President's plan until after they
arrived here to-night In response, to a ' hold a meeting following their con
suinmons by their sub-cominlttee which ' fei eiice with Mr. Wilson,
has been mooting with the President.' All day petitions from unorganized
The general committee has plenary I railroad workers protesting against a
powers to accept or rejiet any sugges- j genetal strike continued to arrive at the
tion. The men. although l ef raining , White House. The President also re
from discussing the plan of the Presl- j rPived letters and telegrams from many
dent, said they thought the outlook i n- individuals and organizations urging him
couragmg for a settlement. , ,, nis lltllmt to ,,revent a tic up ot
At throe o'clock to-morrow after- , , country's railroads,
noon the President will meet the entile j Members of Tenures kept inclose
general committee of (140 in the east i tmu,n .,,,, tllp PitlmUnll, although it was
room of the AVhite. House and lay be- mierstood no determined effort toward
fore them his plan. He will accompany ronsresslonal action would he taken un
it with a statement, appealing to their k.us recommended bv the President or
patriotism and urging a compromise in ! tml(.RS elT,jrtH ,0 avert u strlUo HhmlM
the Interests of tho people of the mi- I j.,
t"n' irlll. ..In,,, nf .rift,,' t m nnflre COllI-
While no time has been set for
conference between the managers' com-
T , U"",K,U-1
iNui,ni,iu .l iii uinu jiuice lo-iiiorrow
morning. When Mr. Wilson sees the
managers lie will make practically tho
saino statement he will deliver to the
employos, paying particular attention,
however, to the points he feels the
managers should concede.
The President completed his plan
during a conference to-day with Judge
I William D. Cliambers of the federal
board of mediation ' and conciliation, j
who took to the White House statis
tics complied by experts showing tho
probable cost to the railroads of thn
granting of n basic eight-hour day.
Immediately afterward Judge Cham
bers talked briefly with the mnnageis'
committee. He did not confer with the !
employes' repi esentatlves.
Tho conference between the Presi
dent and Judge Chambers was the only
formal meeting of the duy in connec
tion with tho situation. Thorn wero
no Whlto House conferences with the
managers and employes pending the ICven the proposal of pro rara pav for
arrival of the brotherhoods' general J over time, which would mean an In
committee from New York and tho I crease of from 20 to 23 per cent, to em
drawlng up of a dellnlte plan by Mr. ployes working extra hours, was said to
Wilson. Tho managers spent tho day ' appeal to them It was reiterated that the
in informal meetings and conference nt ' original proposal of time anil a half for
their hotel. The employes' represent!!- over time was merely included In the.em
tlvi s rested at their hotel. ployes' demands for tho puiposo of' en-
Tho President is depending largely forcing an eight hour day agreement,
upon public opinion to force a settle- should one be entered Into.
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
MIDDLEBURY.
Horace Ferris of Mungcr street, who
was patching the roof of one of his
barns, made a misstep and fell to the
ground, a dlstnnco of about 20 feet.
Ho was tnken to tho house and Dr.
Williamson of Bristol, who was called,
found that ho had broken his right
arm just above the wrist. John D.
Woods nnd Walter W. Martin havn re
turned from Montpolior, where they
have been on a business trip. Mr. nnd
Mrs. J, C. Miller of Melrose, Mass., nro
at the Addison for a few weeks' stay.
There will he a big neld day pro
gram at Meehan's Park, I.ako Intn
lnore, Friday of this week. Thn exer
cises will Include two baseball games,
one between Cornwall and Knst Mld
illebury nt 10.30 a. in., and the other
between Center Itutland nnd Mlddlo
bury at 3:00 p. m, There will ho a fnt
man's men for contestants of 200
pounds or over, a frco-for-all of 000
yards with ennoes for prizes, a great
struggle for tho greased pig nnd n
greased polo ollmb with several prizes.
Thero will bo a largo danco in tho eve
ning with prlzns for tho host dnnenrn.
Thero will also bo dancing In tho .aft
ernoon, Vlttum'H Mlddlobury orchestra
furnishing the music, Miss Marlon R,
Thomas, a nurso In tho Homeopathic
hospital In Iloston, Is hero ns tho
guest of Mlas Jronn Adams nt tho sum
mer school. Illcharil Foricy. who has
heon visiting his wlfn on Weyhrldgn
Street ffir thren weekB, hna ,gonn to
.Syracuse, N. Y where ho hns a posi
tion -Mrs. Harry C. Shaw and children
of Jlutland, who have been on a two
Railroads Should Con
with Agreement That
ment. Should the present method of
proeedtne seem about to full. It was
thought probable to-day he would take
tho public Into his confidence.
Discussion of tho creation of a fed
eral commission to Investigate the rail
road situation centered largely to-day
around the contention of lallrond of
ficials that such a commission would
be able to got at all the facts nnd be
able to prevent a recurrence of the
present crisis.
The President has taken up with
both sides suggestions as to the best
way to make up a commission which
would be satisfactory.
The piluclpnl luasons advanced by
the malingers 111 insisting on arbi
liatlon weiu their belief that tho whole
principle of arbitration Is at stake, and
points made during the consideration
of their recent petitions for a five per
cent, inciease In fi eight rates. TlH
interstate commerce commission inti
mated at that time that whim railroad
officials gave wage increases of their
tnn UMo!ll pp(,rtnltv to discuss
the President's proposal, or any other
propositions which might arise, the broth
erliood leaders to-night rented a hall for
conferences. The first meeting will lie
held tn-nionow afternoon at one o'clock
before i ailing at the White House. Lead
ers plan to hold another meeting after tho
confeniiie with tho president.
Genet :il discussion of tho situation will
be cnenntaged .'it all of these meetings it
was siml. by brotherhood leaders. Tho
r'r",,lr'" ls, ,on w .U""v f,,r
sub-coniinlttee to a'tempt to dictate what
should be done by the full committee, ann
tliev propose that responsibility for the
final de islon shall fall on the entire WO
men.
Most of the brotherhood leaders who
have l.een conferring with the President,
it was declared, would he willing to nego
tiate nil issues to tho controversy except
the gi. iranteed hourt day. With It as
sured them beyond all doubt, it was said,
thev would be Inclined to accept any fair
propos'tlon for settling collateral Issues,
weeks' visit in this vicinity, havo re
turnee; to Itutland. Mrs. Margaret
Mulligan Is in Florence on a visit. Mr
and Mrs. Nelson C,oss havo returned
from Florence, where they have been
on a visit to Fred Coss nnd family.
Dr. nnd Mrs. Dewey of Ann Arbor,
Mich., who are spending the summer
In town, accompanied liy President
Charles 13, Plnney of the National
bank of Mlddlobury, nro op a ten days'
fiutomoiiiin trip to various pnrts of
New Krigland. Mr and Mrs. Ceorgn
I.ewis and Mrs. John Dillon of Salem
N. V., and Miss Dorothy King of Kara
togn, N. Y., have returned to their
homes after a few days' visit at thn
home of Mr and Mrs. W. T. Clement
or .North Pleasant stieet. A dozen
of the members of the boy scouts left
.Monday morning for Panton, whom
they will spend the net ten dnys
ramping fin tho farm of the Uev. A. A.
Lancaster, a former pastor of th
Congregational Church of this village
and former master of tho local troupe
of Hoy Scouts. During their stay
they will bo under his command.
James 13. Condon has resumed his du
ties at tho Henlleld grocery store after
II week's vacation. Mr. and Mrs. C. II.
Hanks hnvo gono to Dong Point, I.akn
Champlalri, whom thoy will spend thn
nnxt two weeks. Arthur Cnta has
gono to Springfield, Mass., where hn
hns n position. T. V. nicsnahan bus
returned from a week's business trip
to Montpeller Mr. anil Mrs. (luldeoti
K, Abbey have gone to Camp Kill Kare,
Long Point, where they will spend the
next two weeks. Wllllnm Fntite has
returned from Proctor, where he hns
spent tho past week on business.--Mr
UConiliuicil ou jjokc fiu4
GOVERNOR CALL
S
LEGISLATURE II
SPECIAL SESSION
Will Convene at Capitol at Ten
O'clock on Morning of Thurs
day, August 2 1 National
Guard Prohlems Cause.
SUGGESTED BY COMMITTEE
Responsibility and Cost of Pro
viding Relief for Guardsmen's
Dependents Difficult Problem
State Will Also Pay Its Fed
eralized Militia.
PROCLAMATION.
-Montpeller, Aug. If) Governor
flutes announced at three o'clock to
day the following proclamation:
Whereas, the Vermont troops nro
now serving In the Pnlted States
army to preserve and maintain
pence and protect our citizens on
the Mexican border;
Whereas, such service Is being
willingly and patriotically perform
er by our men at a sacrlilce to per
sonal Interest and duty to family
and home,
Wherens. It appears that the com
pensation received by these men Is
not sufficient to mi et their needs
and the needs of their families nnd
that If provision Is not soon made
for such purpose such families mMst
become subject to charity;
Therefore. I, Charles W. Cates.
governor of the State of Vermont,
do hereby, by virtue of the consti
tution In this respect, summon the
members of the Senate and House
of Representatives to meet In Mont
peller In their respective chambers
In the State House, together with
the officers of the two houses, on the
24th day of August, A. D, 191 (5, at
ti u o'clock in tho forenoon, to pro
vide for such compensation to Ver
mont troops. In addition to IT. !,
pav, and for such relief to their
fnmllles nnd their dependents as
may seem advisable.
rSeal.
Cilven under my hand and the
great seal of the State at Montpeller
on the ICth day of August, A. I ,,
101 rt.
(Signed) Charles W. dates, tiov
ernor. Montpeller, Aug. Ki. Cnvernor Charles
W. dates late this afternoon Issued a
proclamation calling a special session of
the Vermont Legislature for ten o'clock
on th" morning of Thursday, August 21.
liie purpose of the session will bo t 1 pio-
lde extra pay for the members of the
Vermont National tluard and to draft
I in m . la 1 1 measures to care for the
dependents of the guardsmen.
As the result of n conference held two
weeks ago at tin- Capitol between the
ruiveiniir, the other State officials, the
speaker of the House of Hepresentatlves
mil the chairman of the ways ana
means committee of the House, tho fol
lowing committee was appointed to In
vestigate tho matter of providing as
sistance for the dependents of the State's
national gaunlstnen. M. ft. Roberts ol
Nnrthfield, Kdmurid Deschenes of St.
Albans, M. D. Walker of Nortl.lleld,
Judge Henry C. Conlln of WlnoosUI, C.
A. Davis of Non-port, Col. John F. Pld
dock of Hollows Falls, M. C. Cady ot
Xorthlleld, Oeorgo F. Leland of Spring
field, C. I,. Woodbury of p.urilngton,
Frank H. Uroolts of St. Johnsburv and
Dr. Cuy Potter Henton of nmllngton.
The Covernor was chairman nx-offlcin
of the committee, nnd Adjutnnt-Cleneral
Ue S. TUlotsnn nnd J. T. dishing of St.
Albans nlso met with the committee. It
was thought nt tho time of the appoint
ing of the committee that the sum needed
for this relief work would lm small and
that the calling of a specinl session of
the Legislature would thus be obviated.
This committee, on which every
town or city furnishing n company of
National Ounrdsmeii hns n representa
tive, held two meetings nnd mado a
rarcful study of tho work of provid
ing for the dependents of the guards
men. The matter of State pay for tho
guardsmen was not discussed ns the
committee felt that It was a purely
legislative matter with which they
were not concerned. After enreful con
sideration, th" committee found thnt
Instead of the SI, SOO which It had pre
viously been estimated would suffice
for the relief work, a sum In excess
of tho $10,000 or $1.1,000 which It Is
estimated n specinl session win r0st,
must bo provided, and felt thnt the
responsibility was so great that it
should be handled only by thn Legis
lature. The views of thn committee
wero made known to the Governor at
il mooting held Wednesday nfternoou
at Montpeller and resulted In tho call
ing of the special session,
Vt. Tennis Tournament.
Ilrattloboro, Aug. IC. Tho second
day of the Vetmimt Ktnto tennis cham
pionship tournament brought tho play
for to-morrow down to the Henrl-flnnls
and finals In both singles and doubles
with the prospect that Fi oil II. Harris,
present State champion, will oppose A.
II. Chapln of K"i"K"fid, Mass., be
tween linn Is Vozo'i liumiplon of
Montr enl. It wiX" 11 Mnnibnng bnck
court game most of the time and Vo.uy
forced.
For nn nxhU'l""" "'"ton or mixed
doubles, Miss Snrah M. Voting of Pitts
burg nnd Frcl Unrrls boat ,Mr. and
Airs. A. II. Cluilln. 8-1 W.
WE MUST
COUNTRY EVERY DAY"
DECLARES HUGHES
Portland, Ore., Aug. lfi.-Chnrlos 13. i
Hughes in nn address to tho Portland Ad
vertising club, in which he advocated com
mercial preparedness for Huropenu com
petition through tho agency of a protec
tive tariff to-dny branded as a traitor to
his country the man who sought to build
up his private fortune at public expense.
'The man who tries to get the better of
tho public for his pilvato purse," the
nominee said, "Is n traitor to the govern
ment. Wo will go ahead and put theso
traitors out of business while wo build up
tho business of the Pnlted States." Tho
commercial problems which thn country
will faco after the war, Mr. Hughoa said,
will be greater than over before.
"We must save this country every day.
It wont bo saved by letting It drift. It
uont bo saved by taking everything for
granted. Its Industries wont bo conserved
by indulging in good wishes nrotinJ the
club table. We have got to take account
of tho lessons learned on tho other side
nnd apply them We hnve got to consider
honest business with Ihe success and
pride that It deserves nnd wo havu got
to fearlessly iiindetnn nbusos.
ALBANY MEN PLEASED.
Visitor tit Itegrtltn of l.nl.e C iwiruplfltn I
Vnclil Club 'n Hntliti'diiHttc.
Albany, N. V., Aug. pi. Thero were
fpiito a number of Albany folks nt the re-
gntta of the Lake Champlalri Yacht club, I
among whom were D. I,. Tripp, president '
of the Albany tinat corporation, and Hugh I
Palmer, snlcs manager of the same 1
coinpany. Mr. Tripp has written Commo-
doro Dol.ong statlr.g their appreciation
of the many courtesies extended to visitors
and complimenting the club on Its neat P'tal this afternoon to witness the ex
lifiuse and conveniences. Mr. Palmer erclses In connection with tho laying
states that the anchorage facilities and cf l'0 coiner stone.
the available waters for motor boats I A parade, one of the largest civic
makes littrllngton one of the. most ntrac- demonstrations of its kind since the
live boating centers that he knows of and dedication of the nennlngton P.attlo
iilnkM rliere Is every evidence that, with j monument, preceded the exercises at
the enterprising spllit nt the club, thero 11,0 foundation. All of the different
should be a llg lncieae 111 the use of ' societies and organizations, the fire de
motor boats o Lake Chnmplaln. tho same Ptmenl. secret orders and public ofll
ns other nlnces whole motor boatlnir has i etals took pnrt In the parade which
grown so popular because It encourages
complete relaxation; and probably Dame
Ffmlilrin bus en n o 1,1 r.iv, 1,1 n tr, rl flti tlin
widespread popiilnrlty of motor boating
at the present tlnio.
Mr. Tripp remarked that Cornoll Uni
versity some time ngn prepared a pamph
let on the subject of npplo culture in the
Chnmplaln valley and Professor Ilniley
wrote In that pamphlet thnt there was a
peculiar natality of ozone In the air of tho
Champlalri alley which was responsible
for the very delicious flavor In the cham-
plnln apples. Following the same line of
reasoning motor boating on Lake Ch.im
plaln should develop a verv healthy and
happy people. The Inke Is blanketed with
miles of pure nlr nnd there are no danger
ous curves or "Stop, Look nnd Listen"
signs to Keep the nerves a tingle.
Incidentally, "f!oomo," the fast motor
boat entered hv Mr. Trinn in the recattn. I
won thn f ree-for-ali tropin- and added one
more laurel to the mnny achievements of
the famous fast boats built by tho Albany
Host corporation.
The good folks from Wostpnrt invited j tho laying of the corner stone and
the Albany men to their logatta and Mr. i which consisted of music, by tho Ben
Palmer states thnt another very enioy- ningtoir City bnnd and three brief nd
ablu time was given them nt Westport dresses. James C. Colgate of New
and once more the "Gosome" was award- ' York and a summer resident of Old
ed the trophy. Mr Tripp and Mr. Palmer 1 Bennington, gave the appreciation in
have stated that thev tremendously en- . behalf of the community. James K.
Joyed their first visit to Burlington and ' Batchclder of Arlington told tho audi-
hope to have the pleasure of repeating
the visit from time to time.
'NOTCH DAY" AT STOWE.
t nliile I'enltire of Old Ilium- Week
Attended by ,'IOII Persons.
Stnwe. Aug. Pi. A unique feature of the
Mth Stoue annual Did Home Week cole
bratlon, "Notch day," was carried out to
dny, when monitors of several sections of
tho State Green Mountain club and cltl-
rons of Stowe nnd surrounding towns en-
loved nn outing In the celebrated delllo
In tho Green mountain rnneo known as
Smugglers' Notch. A bountiful picnic
dinner wns served with hot coffee furnish-
ed bv tho association, after which W. J.
English, principal ot tlin Stowe high
school, who was called upon hv President
L. L. Hnrris to net ns tonstmnster, Intro-
duced as spenkers, Horace F. Graham of
Crnftsbury, Stnto auditor and candidate
for governor. Mllo B. Hlllegas. Stato com-
mlssloner of education, James P. Taylor,
secretary of tho Greater Vermont nsso.
elation, nnd tho Rov. J. Q, Angoll of
Walden, formerly of Stowe. Music wns
furnished by the Stowo Military bnnd,
assisted by two pieces from Montpeller.
There wero fully IW peoplo present.
RAILROAD VS. CITY.
Itiillnnil 1,1 no nnd city of lliiilniul nt 1 nsldorntlon the Income from paid pa-
, , Merits.
Odds Over I mli'rpnNx. I
Soon after the hospital .association was
Rutlnnd, Aug. 10. -It is up to the Ver- incorporated by tho Legislature a build
mont public servlco commission to decide i K committee wns .appointed, a site was
an underpass light between the Rutlnnd purchased nnd plans for the structuio
rnllrond and tho city of Rutland, which I were secured. Some of thn Incorporators
Involves the expenditure of more than favored building the hospital at once
ri&VH The commissioners. R. C. BnCOll ' Ihrnucrb n l.niM km. rnnralrl l.v tlin
of Brattleboro. W A Button ot llnrdw lck
nnd R. Warner of Vergcnnes, wore
heie to-day considering thn question.
Hecently, the rnllrond petitioned therom
mlsslon to close West street, the main
thoroughfare, for westbound tratlle out of
this city, nnd to send nil vehicles vln Pine
street tunnel, which would have to bo
widened, nnd Meadow stn ut, malting n
circuitous course somo quarter of a mllo
out of tho dlroct linn This would be a
f2Vl proposition, exclusive of hind dam
ages. Friday night tho board of nldermen met
and paused a resolution denying tills peti
tion nnd culling for nn underpass nt West
street and one at Forest street, which
moots It nt light nngles nt tho track.
Heating of the opposition Attorney F.dwln
W. Lawrence of thn Itutlnnd rnllrond to.
day withdrew the petition to close the
highway, hut said that tho underpasses
would cost Jlifi.ono besides land damages
nnd could not be consldnieil The petition
wiih dismissed Cltv Attorney Walter S.
Foulnii will formally petition the cotnnils
slon to order tho two underpasses. Rut
land city has four unprotected. crossings.
Cnn you Imnglno a woman ns i sue.
ecssful "homo-woman" if tho ads do not
Interest bee?
SAVE THIS
"We hnve, got tho basis for success.
What Wo now need Is tho motlvn power
of unswerving loyalty and a real con
sclousncss of national unity which will
fill us with a dominant sense of patriotic
loyalty to tho United States.
"With Hint wo want a conception of
leal government. Wo want to bo well
propnred, well organized commercially
and Industrially. We have got to match
organization with organization, prepared
ness abroad with preparedness at home
in nil things.
"I iloslro to soo tho United Stntes
holding Its head erect among tho peo
ples of the earth, not trembling, not
blustering, but ready for any emer
gency. Wo havo In this country op
portunities that dazzlo tho Imagina
tion." Those, said the nominee, could best
, ho developed under nn efficient form
of government Irr the hands of men
who believed In protecting American
industries.
After his address, Mr. Hughes wont
for a four hour nutomobllo ride along
I tho Columbia highway.
CORNER STONE LI
I niprrsslt e
Henry
Ceremonies nt Silo
AV. Putnam Hospital
fit Ilcniiliigtnn.
nennlngton, Aug. 1G. Fully 3,000
persons, nearly all of them residents of
nennlngton, gathered about tho site of
the Henry W. Putnam Memorial hos-
passed through the principal streets o(
, lMP viiiagc anu onme rnriKs or uie nos-
I I'll1" site.
Grand officers of the Masonic grand
lodge of the State can-red out tho
ritual of the order irr the laying of
the corner stone. Grand Master H. H.
Ross of Rutland presided nnd wns as
sisted by Deputy Grand Master David
A. Dlllott of White River Junction,
Grand Senior Warden Hdwln L. Wells
of Lyndonvllle, Grand Junior Warden
Archie S. Harriman of Mlddlebury,
Grand Treasurer Charles W. Tltcomb
of Proctorsvllle, Grand Secretary
Frank A. Ross of Tlurllngton, Assift-
ant Grand Chaplain W. J. Rallou of
Ludlow, Grand Junior Deacon Frank
A. Dnvls of Chester, Grand Senior
Steward Hdwnnl A. Martin of Burling
ton, Grnnd Pursuivant Frederick D.
Ranney of North Bennington, Grand
Sword Bearer Albert Klllam of Bur
lington and Grand Tyler Henry D, Fill
more of Bennington,
Village President A. W. Brnisted pre
sided during tho exercises following
ence how the institution came Into ex-
istence. The Rev. Thomas R. Carty,
pastor of St. Francis tic Sales Church.
Bennington, invoked the divine bless
ing upon tho hospital nnd tho work it
is destined to accomplish.
Tho hospital Is the gift to Bennington
of the late Henry W. Putnam of San
Diego, Cal.. nnd his son, Henry W. Put
nnm, Jr., of Now York, and prospectvely
rame into existence In October, V.H2, when
tho gravity system owned by tho Ben
nington Water company wns presented
j to tho vllingo uy us cnici wocMioniur no
'ho purposo of building and endowing the
I Institution. Tho water svstem was built
1 In l"'"' I"1" tlu ,v msldent of
I Bennington and at tho tlnu. of its transfer
i " 'no village wns conservatively valued
nt ll!llf 'l """Ion dollars. It was provided
In the deed of gift that tho water rntes
j f"r household use existing at the time
"f Hip transfer should bo reduced onn-hnlf
""d that In the future the net income from
i nil sources should scml-nnnunlly be turn-
ed over to tho treasurer of tho Henry W.
Putnam Memorial Hospital association.
Tho system hns been operated by n bonrd
of water commi.'sloners for threo years
who have demonstrated that the annual
Income In the future will bo In excess of
$ltf.(KVl. This sum the olllclals of tho hos-
1 pltnl association nssert thnt their investi
gations have proved will operate the lnstl
jtutlon after Its completion, taking Into
income from tho water system. While
such a plnn wns under discission the
association was notified thnt Henry W.
Putnam. Jr., would provide the necossary
funds, 'ni.OKi, to construct the bui'dlng.
Notice of tills gift wns recoiled late In
April and ground was broken for tho
excavation May 31. Tho foundation is
now completed and the laying ot tho
walls will begin at once. According to
tho conditions of the contract the build
ing must be completed March SI, 1917.
Tho plan of the building shows Hint
when completed the structure wi'.l ie
senible In form a capital letter T. It
ulll have a frontage of 1SS feet nnd depth
of 42 feet. Tho central wing will extend
through nnd beyond the mnln building
to n depth of !is foot. Thero will bo 14
prlvnto rooms. Wood will bo used only
in tho enslngs nnd tho building will bo
as nearly llieprnof ns buildings nro mado
outsldo of tho largo cities. Gypsum block
will be used in the partitions nnd tho
i'nors will be of composition.
Bucharest via London, Aug. HI.
The Kpnon announces that Germany
has offoicd territorial compensation to
Roumnnla at tho expense of Austria, in
return for Routimnlun neutrality in tho
SURFACE CARMEN
SEND ULTIMATUM
TO RAILWAYS C
New York Motormen and Con
ductors Will Strike Forthwitl
Unless Employers Recognij
the Union.
THREATEN COMPLETE TIE-UP
Each Side Charges the Othei
with Violating Agreement of
August 7 Mayor Mitchel Re
turns from Pittsburgh Camp
on Short Notice.
Nnw Vnrk, Aug. IB. Another strike ol
conductors nnd motormen employed by
the New York Railways company will oe
declared "forthwith" unless the com
pany grants recognition of the union, ac
cording to resolutions adopted at a rrn s
meeting of the men to-night.
Tho resolutions of tho carmen, al'T
authorizing their leaders to call a suspen
sion of work on nil lines of the New Yor'f
Railways company unless n sntlsfactorV
understanding enn he reached to-morrow ,
declares thai the company for four da i
past failed to comply with requests f jr v
conference with the employe. iommlt.ee
The i esolutions not only reiterate t o
men's charges that the conipnn- indl -crimlnntelv
discharged employes who wero
active in the recent strike, but accise 'ho
company of promoting and oucoi.ragii g a
plnn of its own for selecting committee
men to represent the employes in the set
tlement of future grievances.
New York, Aug. 10. Whether there
will be. a renew nl of the surfat? car
strike, together with a complete tie in
of tile subway nnd elevate 1 railway Ur.ei
in this city as threatened in an
ultimatum by a committee of employe"
wns said to-night to depend upon tho
tesult of a conference to be held to-moi
row between the men nnd officials of the
companios. The situation hns become so
acute that Mayor Mitchel and Oscnr P
Straus, chairman of the public servlco
j commission, are said to have been sum
moned bnck to the city, the former from
Plattsburgh nnd the Intter from Mn'ne
Theodore P. Shouts, president u the
Interborough Rapid Transit, nnd P'e No"
York Railways coi lpany. In a 'et' T ad
dressed to-night to tho mayor and Chair
man Straus, called attention tr 'he
ultimatum delivered to him bv the en -ployes'
committee, which charged ti-a-the
New York Rnllwnys company had
violated tho agreement of Aug'""' "
which brought the strike on the s rrfa e
car line to nn end. Mr. Shonts i! r , I
thnt his company had discharged w re
el's because of their afflllntlon wit fin
Carmen's Pnlon, nnd added that
many cases employes of th" - nnifntv
have clearly violated the rules nf t'ii
company, some of the vlolat'or.s iiiTeas
ing the hazard and endnfijeriri-: hn
snfetv of passengers on our cars ''
in a circular distributed among Its em
ployes, the position of the companv waa
defined in pnrt ns follows:
"This company has not sancti i"ei! 'be
unionizing of Its men. It has .-aid thn'
If an employe desires to .loin a ipilon ho
shall not be pi evented from dolus so b
coercion, or intimidation: nolthe- shn'.l bo
bo discharged for Joining. It ha" als i
said that If an employe does not desir to
Join a union he shall not tie coerced or
Intimidated Into doing so either bv union
ized employes of this company or mem
bers of an organization not emplov of
this company.
"The company explicitly reserves thn
direction and control of employes in nil
matters looking to etnclency in the serv
ice. Tho most Important item of effi
ciency of service Is tho maintenance of
reasonable nnd fair discipline. Tho np-ee-meut
stlpulntes that no matter minting to
questions of discipline or efficiency shall
bo subject to conference or .arbitration "
At the offices of tho public service com
mission to-night It wns snld the agree,
ment of August 7 provides .ample machin
erv for settlement of just such a dispute
ns hns arisen over tho discharge of men
The agreement, it was pointed out ar
ranges for settlement hy arbitration of all
questions arising.
INTERNAL REVENUE
FIGURES INCREASE
Collections Sfili'.T-It.S' for Vcnr Cod
ing June an.
Washington, Aug. It! Colle-tions b- h
Internal revenue bureau for the ''s a
year ending Juno HO reached a ' tal f
J5i;.72a,2S, nn Increase of iX 01. M i er
those for the fiscal year 191".
A preliminary report made p.b'ic hv
Commissioner Osborne shows t'r ordi
nary collections, and $121,9.t7."':S from 'b
Income tn. Of the ordinary revenue J4
TS.W.' was collected under the omergeni
tax law and the rest from taxes on spirt's
tobacco, etc. About f37,uni,OOi ,ii . r .e
from sales of documentary stamps
ty,0"i from the additional tax of r. i ceo!
per barrel on fermented liquors, and a
most 7,rno,oul from special taxes on bank,
urn, brokers, etc
The normal tax on Incomes, those over
W,om) nnd less than J2fl,0rtt, produced $-.1,
9K1.777: Incomes from $.HtVh) to J.M.tVO pro
duced M.e.U.T?.", thos from f.vi.rmi to s:"i
O00 produced f I.0TI ,.1C2 ; those from $TTviil
to Jiro.om produced $.1,(li!,47l. thorn fnvii
J100.0VI ti, $i),rvv) produced l i.n v
those from tivyw to iw.ooo prodii ed $ .
filra. Offers of compromise wrv a.,
eeptod Involving ?1V1,1M.
Klmlra, N. Y Aug. Hi. The Prohlln
tlonlst party of this city in couvcnlii
hero chose candidates for Nute ifl1
to-day, bonded by Charles K, wu h
JoC Westllold, for governor.
