No. 7.
Marlon, Crittenden County Kentucky, Thursday Morning, Aug. 17, 1916.
Vol. XXXIX
k
MANAGING A PUB
LIC INDUSTRY
Thousands of Dollars Saved Annu-
nually by the Introduction of
Modern Methods.
The interest of people in pub
lic affairs is considerably height
ened when they learn that the
revenues of the government are
wisely and judiciously managed.
A statement of economical ex
penditure which is susceptible of
proof will always attract attention
and please the thoughtful mind.
Among the vaious industrial
enterprises of the Postoffice De
partmentin Washington is anei
tab'ihment devoted entirely to
the manufacture of mail locks
and the bag attachments used in
mail transportation. When this1
administration came into power,
the Department was sorely in
need of &n improved type of mail
lock. The shop wan immediate
ly re organized, placed on a bus
inr fs basis, and its activities en
larged so a9 to meet the demand.
Within a very thort time a new
and greitly improved lock had
beer. di vised fcnd its production
begun.
The brk :ri ue weighed 512
ounce; trie new one weighs 2 4 5
ounces. As CC(( 0 (J this new
product leve U en put into ser
vice, the CifTerer.ee in weight
(the g(ie-inn.e:.t faying ssmuch
earnest interest in their work,
both of which desirable features'
this administration of the De-1
partment has favored and put'
into practice, is responsible fori
the many improvements made
and the advantages gained. I
Active experiments are con
stantly being made for the bet
terment of the service. For
many years a tremenous expanse
has been the labeling of the im
mense quantities of mail bag
in use. The form of label used
in the past and still being used
by clerks all over the country is
the doubling and refolding of
what is known a3 a "facing slip."
The preparation of these labels
by the thousands has been and is
an expensive proposition, yet
there appears to have been noef
fort on the part of previous ad
ministrations to progress from
the old method. Under present
direction a perforated label in
sheets and runs has been design
ed which is practically ready for
use when furnished to employes.
Every postal clerk in the country
and thousands of postoftice em
ployes will find this new mt thod
of great advantage and it will re
sult in a 'arge economy to the
service.
There have also been some oth
er rotable improvements maJe.
viz: Tre substitution of tteel
where bras was formerly used.
at a vtry considerable lessening
olexper.se; a device f(r fasten
ing foreign mail pouches; doing
away with the tlJ-fafhioned
me the d c! string ar.d seal; a
scheme for iavir.g twine ty
Fourteenth Annual
KENTUCKY State FAIR
LOUISVILLE
September 11-16, 1916
WORLD'S GREATEST SADDLE HORSE SHOW
Daily Trotting, Pacing and Running Races
Clean end Classy Midway
Crand Military Pfn nd Athlatle
I Tournament.
Stupendous Decorated Automobile Parade for Prizes
Great Fraternal Gathering for Friday of Fair Week
Fret Auction Sale of Pure-Bred Lhrettcck Thursday and
Friday
Reduced R. R. Rates--$40,000 in Premiums
Address W. J. COOCH, Secretary
Suite 604 Republic Bldf. Louisville, Kentucky
ly was written by Mrs. Koltinshv,
and the editor also gave her cred
it for the second article, which
wa Wiit;en by Miss Asher. We
regret the mistake and hasten to
orrvct it as fsr as we can.
Miss Aher graduated with
honors from the Marion High
School and attended the Wes tern
Kentucky State Normal at Bowl
ing Green and is now teaching
at Piney Fork, and altho one of
the youngest, will make one of
te county'B best teachers" Ev
ery one should hunt up a copy of
the Crittenden Record Pies of
Aug. 10th an, read her splendid
article.
VISITS OLD HOME
AFTER 1-2 CENTURY
Geo. Dupuy, of N. C, Visits Birth
place After an Absence of
Nearly Fifty Years
Miss Esta Worley Married
in San Diego, California
Mr. and Mrs. M. T. Worley re-
Circuit Court Increases
Fine of Fred Lemon.
Th ose of Fred Lemw, of
this city, chsrged with having
intoxicants in his pofs sj:op. for
the purpose of snie, was li.tiy
Repton Tent Meeting Be
gins Next Monday Evening
On Monday night Aug. 21st a
tent meeting wiil begin in J. H.
King's woods near Repton under
the direction of Rev. J. R. King
and W. T. Oakley. The public
is invited to attend.
Cjurt it
War And Volcanoes Afflict Italy
Mt. Aetna in Eruption
Iorr,e. Aug. 11. TLe
ce:.t;r
Attna,
( lliK) ittt dctp i in fuiivructi n.
'i' i of the outer of I-Ijunt
Tr.e
f.vt- l.n u'l.rrV.l r.f i-m-innf-nt AH
it duuf.r'the trail itself) can be Pf" of a simple f'"lder "hh
HilirnlniVid. The locks re- crm.it me ana easy ue wun
k ik;. -, mt ietur out waste, and a flexible stamp
stvleccrt 21 cents toir.ake; those design, for which the contract
nowbeingmanufacturedcostol-i Price was 38 cents but wh.c.
Awt onH ir rUreei will now t made at accstof but
ni(i-,.,i th. nvirr thus 8 cents. A mechanical pick-up
n,:cnn.lrMt c fnrnduc fniT table for use in facing
tiontodat. amounting to 153.750 aod Bckir: ,et.ter? in
nr th. At,i .tvlP M OOO were an- postotlices has also been ceveiop.
....tl.. t,..J (nP pr.air bt n td End ill
cost of sLott 9 cents each. Ofthe
ceived the following announce
ment: Mr. Clarence W. Carter and
Mki Fta Wnrlfv were marrted : conUsted i.i Circ-it
Saturday, July 2 h. 1016. San Dixon Wtdnesdny nrri
Diego, Ca!if. At home afUr by attorneys on b,th s;
August 5th, 175C Catle street. 'Jury Mu.ntd a veraict a c:.-h .dVa lB flowing to tnesoui.iv.ts;
Ocean Reach. Kan Uesrx Cahf. ! viction aid the ce:"er.c!?.".t .vis
Miss Esta was tr.e tranddaugh-;Kiven a fine cf ?70 and ten days
tertf Mr. Taylor Worley, of this I in jail. The case was arpralei
county. The fa.mil- has net! from the Magistrate's Court,
learned the occupation cf Mr. where he wa. rined $C'J a-;d giv-
Carter. The Kec:ra-Pre con- n itn aays in jau. jusrepon
gratulates him on winning the1 d that Mr. Ltmcn will take the
cas to tr.e Court t: Apfa.s.
Pravidtrce Er.terpr.sc.
A Class Which Docs Something
On the evening cf August 11
unsay
Ltart a'.d hard of cne of Critten
den's fa:r daughters.
soon be perfected.
This device is considered supe
rior to thope now in use and costs
Aged Apple Tree
Bears Fruit Bitmially.
Princeton. Ky., Aug. 10. J,
M. Dunbar, a farmer of the
Liberty section of this country,
has on exhibition some applet
which grew on an apple tree over
100 years old. The tree bears
every other year and this year's
crop is abundant and of good
quality.
now clvlp rut fif thf CTP&t TiUm-
ber sent into the service, butSKiC M'" than or.e-third to manufac-
l-..- i a v,c.a ture. 1 hose at present in use
new locks can le repaired at a
cost cf 3 cents each, the annual
savinirrnthisittm will amount
to over 12.100.
The Depart mert has always
encturaged its employes to give
costs appoximately $1,500.
It will thus be seen that theac
tivities of the PostorTce Depart
ment have been centered along
lines which wiH not only prcduce
larj,e economies to the peop!eof
h.ir lt.Prviff to the covern- the countiy, but will also prove
m.ntnndmanv instances have re- a great convenience to those in
. . T
cently come to notice wherein "e serv.ee. uur.nK u.e vi
i r,....,, v..o rf.o. hu inree years swo oojecia nave
LUC LJ J'PI lllll III. liva J 1 ' .
this wise public policy. In the befn kept ccmsrUntly in vie.
lock shop a recent achievement viz: saving me puouc money
in this direction is an improved wherever possible and serving
cord fastener, the work of three the people to the luiiest extent
nf it mnlovea. for use on bags: inere was room ior great im
bUo on dMirned for locking provernent and there has been
i..... nr,.ni;t,n. r.t narfMi.nnat much accomplished, it is but
IHItC HIIOIIMHVO W , I
hirh hna w.B hpreto- common justice to award due
III lv wv 1 1 nitivii . . . .
fore without thiH Drotection. It credit m uiese administrative re
oAn .i a vr inw nrira. forms to the Fourth Assistant
rpnuinnir less material and a few Postmaster benerai, In whose uu
pr numbor of oDerat ona. The rea mese measures oi economy
aiffnifioflntnartof this lies in the were developed and who has
great number required for the o laitniuiiy aevoteu nis ume 10
service, between three and four that purpose.
million!, the output being 500,
000 annually. As the cost has
1310 Mrs. F. F. Charhs S
Sohcol Class No. 10 of the M. E.
Sunday Scho;l met at her home
on North WaikerSt.
Or.e of the members beir.g sick,
Miss Winnie Neebit end it a 1 s o
beir.g her birthday the class went
to her heme, each one carried her
The Italians are cohtinuing to a little gift as a token of tb e i r
advance from -Gonz:a on the h0ve and triend-shiD for her.
Italians Continue to Advance.
Isonzo front The Austriansare
sharply attacking in other sec
tors but Rome reports all at
tempts checked.
Henry Wadliogtoo Dead.
The following notice clipped
from the Memphis Commercial
Appeal, will be of interest to
many friends of the deceased.
who formerly lived here and is
remembered by many of our
people.
"WADUNGTON-At Denver. Col.,
Tuesday morning, Aug. 8, 1010, j
at 6 o'clock, James Henry, hus
band of Esther Faxon Wadling
ton, son of the late Mrs. Esther
M. Wadlington, brother of Chas.
T., and Leonard W. Wadlington,
aged 31 years.
Funeral will take place from
the residence of his brother,
Leonard W. Wadlington, No.
1G98 Lawrence Place, this
(Thursday) afternoon at four
o'clock. Friends invited. In
terment private "
The deceased was a nephew of
Mrs. Carrie Thomas and a ne
phew of the late Mrs. Lucy
Glasscock, and was a student of
Prof, Charles Evani.
They after-wards returned t o
Mrs. Charlea home, where the
had a short business session, and
then engaged in a Penny contest
a'so Blowing Bubbles contest,
which proved a vtry laughable
one.
After refreshments were serv
ed a Bible contest was engaged
which was very profitable
Tne class adjourned to meet
Sept 8th with Miss Ruby Terry.
Want a Good Cow?
Mr. George Dupuy, of Red
Springs, N. C, who is the guest
of his brother, Sidney T. Dupuy,
made an automobile trip to Kut
tawa and Eddyville Friday. Mr.
Dupuy was born at Eddyville 53
years ago, his father being a to
bacconist there at that time and
he has not been there since he
was 8 years of age (45 years ago. )
His mother andjgrandfather are
buried there. The old home where
his ancestors lived, built by
Chittenden Lyon, the founder
of Eddyville in the 18th century,
and where Aaron Burr and other
celebrities were entertained, has
been torn down and a new high
chcol buildir.g tdorns the spot.
Kuttawa, the drezm of Govern-
r Anderson, has teen planned
d built since Mr. Dupu7 left
r.ia LinhUace. Lake Llcugri was
ameJ for his uncle, Richard
lough Andersen. Or.!y a few
now reside in the old capital of
Lyori whom he knew as a child,
among them being Mrs. Mary
Jenkins, now in her 83th year
and Mrs. Lucy Childers. whohas
pa?sed her diamond anniversary.
and his visit was much enjoyed
byltheseltwo old childhood friends
Mr. Dupuy's trip brought him
many pleasant memories and
some sadness of course, as
it would have brought to any
of us, but taken all in all it was
much enjoyed and he said he
ould not have missed it for any-
reasonable price.
a:;
Named By The Governor.
Hon. Edward D. Stone has
been selected by Gov. Stanley as
a delegate to the Southern Good
Roads convention, to be held at
Lexington, Sept 5, 6, 7 and 8.
Mr. Stone intends to be present
at the convention, and also at
tend the speaking of Charles E.
Hughes, the Republican nominee (From The Ottumwa (Iowa) Re
for President, Sept 5th, at Lex- view.)
ington FOR SALE-One large red
cow, three eights mule and five
:1J OLa nll.tnnia
OhioRiver Association.. ...u:.
on a visit every summer, but she
This body meets with Dyer ljB very much attached to h e
Hill Baptist Church. Livingston home at present by means of
county, near B:rdsville. Wednes- log chain. Any person wishing
day, August 23rd, at 10 o'clock, to buy her I will throw in 50
The introductory sermon by Eld. fet of two-inch rope and an old
W. W. Crouch or alternate, Ho- kx. Would like to Bell her t
sea Paris; reports from churches, Bome man who thinks he could
representatives of various de- wnip Mexico single-handed. Ad
nomination! interests and visit- dress Logan Nickert, R. R. No. 8
ing preachers will be heard
been reduced by the new method Allies to Ship From
from 4 1-2 to 3 cents each it will Southern Seaports.
be seen what aspienaia snowing
this makes for administration Birmingham. Ala., Aug. 14.-
cconomy. I Ships of the allies (England)
Another valuable improvement I within the next few weeks will
has been the perfected locking kg anding at New Orleans cn a
cord fastener designed tor use on jine for munitions of war, steel.
tie sacks, something the Uepart- ammunition and other materia!,
mentfor years has needed and the WDich comes here
vainly cndeuo.ed to accomplish. from tup ifttt(,r c:tv bejnir t0 the
This device will be of great valLffprt that Alabama fuel. irrn. I heaviest All the cars are fitted
to the postal service at large by 6teei an(j 0ther products, are to be with guns. Armor-plated gang
increasing the capacity and cfTi-l,, aoft in minn titv. The fuel willl wavs connect the cars. The en
- - - I v t- v va w w - - i t
ciencyof mailbags to a degree Hif be handled to New Orleans by
ficult to estimate. The modem the Warrior river and rail both,
vstem of business methods and It is understood, and the hand- miles an hour. These ships can
the proper encouragement of cm Ming of much iteel will be by rail reach a heicht of more than
ployes to take an active and from this Bection. '13,000 feet -New York World.
Zeppelins 820 Feet Long.
The Germans have just com
pleted and placed in a large shed
at Darmstadt, ten Zeppelins 820
feet in lergth with a gas capaci
ty of 100. C75 cubic feet In the
hall is provision for machine
gi'ns and for light pieces of ord
nance, The newest Zeppelins
are sad to have four armor-
plated cars, of which the first is
H. F. Green, Mod.
R. A. LaRub. Clerk.
Lost, Strayed or Stolen.
A large red Duroc Jersey bow,
wt about 250 lbs. with no marks.
Left my premises about July 1st.
Reward for her return or infor
mation lesding to her recovery.
It Alue Postleweight.
Ottumwa, Iowa.
A Correction.
iProgam For Division l-Oak
Cme, Aogtst 25, 1916.
Opening: exeriises,
Devotional exercises, Robert
Corley,
The Montessori Method. - My r
tic Morrell and Glenn Sullenger.
Reading, -Grace Hill.
The Gary, Ind., School Plan,-
Mary H. Finley.
Tell a Story, -FletaLaRue.
Pig Clubs and Canning Clubs,
J. R. Bird.
Teach The Association a New
Crittenden County Pig Show.
Marion, Ky.. Aug. 14. 1916.
To the Crittenden Record-Press.
The Crittenden Co., Pig Show-
will be held in Marion on Sep
tember second (2nd). All pie
club members must get their
pigs in town early, and have
their hurdles to make their pens
out of. Mr, H. E. Snow, traffic
manager for the Bourbon Stock
Yards. Louisville, Ky., will be
Judge.
Any firm or person wishing to
offer a prise or help on the
prize lit-1 by a crntnbu'.ion, give
it to Mr. Marshal Jenkins, who
will receive the (fferings made.
The Sta'e Fair Beard offers for
the winning Pig Club Member a
free trip to the State Fair for
the whole week. Crittenden
county's representative won sec
ond prize last year at the State
air, and we want two pijp to
go to Louisville from this county
this year.
We will have our Beeond An
nual Fair and Stock show, about
the! middle of October. The
date will be decided on at the
next regular meeting of Com
mercial Club.
J. Robert Bird, Co., Agt.
gines indicate 4 000 horse-power
and the speed is fifty-seven
Inadvertently, (or by careless
ness of the editor) the splendid
article published last week was Play,-Lecie LaRue.
credited to Mrs. Verlie C. Kol- Consolidated Schools, - Super
tinsky and should have been cred- intendent E. J. Travis,
ited to Miss Ruby Asher daughter County Hii;h Schools, -Hollis
of Mr. J. D. Asher. of this citv. Franklin.
The article headed, "Boys and Moon light Schools, -Raymond
Girls Need to Play." was handed Hunt and Miss Mary Moore.
in by a friend of Miss Asher, Library Plsns.-MiBses Jennie
without her knowledge, and hr Clement and Ruth Melton.
nnm waa not aienpH to it. An. Round Table Discussion of
other article published previous Fair Plans.
Apple Tree Which Bears
jTwo Crops Annaaff
Bennie Ti.dr.r. the aceonnvLit-
irg mail carrier on the estn
and RepU n star ix ute has an ap
ple tree in his yard at Weston,
which i ha the secondcrop of ar
ples on it for the year 1P1C The
first were perfect and had seed,
while the second altho perfect
otherwise had no seed. Tha tree
bears two crops every year ami
the last crop each year has no
seed.
