-gvsfpjjr ?8'ij
lral
.m
-
THE HAYTI HERALD
HAYT1
Population
2873
2101
Readers
WEEKLY
The Foremost Democratic and Official Newspaper of Pemiscot County, Always Standing Strictly for the Democratic Party and Its Principles.
VOL. 8.
HAYTI, MISSOURI. THURSDAY, AUGUST 17, 1910.
NO. 40.
r
1
FOOTPRINTS ON THE SANDS OF TIME
MISSOURI MILITIA.
LOCAL AND PERSONAL.
. smnutt k. uici.sno.v,
j Sici'iiil Hcnild Cot'rcsjjontlpnt.
Laredo, Tex., Aug. 10. With
, tlics weather still hotand dry they
continue to keep things moving
hero, Forty new buildings have
went up by soldier's labor, as we
havr carpenters in each company;
and they are detailed for that
duty, putting in eight hours a
day and are excused from fur
ther duty. The 1th Regiment
has been putting in, their time
hiking over the desert sands
making four and a half miles in
lifty minutes. In this test Co.
"R" stood up like men, not fall
ing out of line, while company
after company lost heavily. The
boys from Southeast Missouri
have it over the highlanders.
Everything is quite along this
part of tha border with the ex
ception of one little excitement
which took place last Tuesday at
Indian Ford, when two shots
were fired from the Mexican
side and returned by one shot
from this side by a private of the
:2nd Missouri Regiment who was
doing outpost duty at the Ford.
Monday was pay day for the
1th Regiment, the men being
paid about .Jl.OO, while some
didn't get a cent.
Of the two months out the Gov
eminent has supplied the Mis-
Mr. and Mrs.L.E. Rice shipped
their household goods Friday to
St. Louis, where they moved.
We received a letter from Gene
Wednesday in which he in
structed us to forward their
paper there. Wo regret to lose
this good family, although we
look for them to return to Hayti
and their old friends ere the
spring llowers come again.
Trade with A. G. Sanders. He
pleases others and will please
you. :5.)
Hon. Von Mayes' plurality in
the 211 rd senatorial district over
his opponents Cain and Mruton
is tjOIi, thus giving Pemiscot the
honor of the nominee for senator.
We congratulate Mr. Mayes on
his advancement to the higher
branch of the general assembly
of Missouri. He will make an
able senator. Portageville Mis
souri.in. Try A. G S inders for harness,
he will .-ave you money. .'!'.)
Judge James Foust of Foust tures brought the sum of $1265,
neighborhood was in town Sat being bid in by D. L. Shaw of
unlay, the lirst time in several Caruthersville. The next closest
weeks, and was looking well and bidder was A. G. Sanders of this
pro-perou.N. Mr. Foust informed city, who bid 1261.
us that he and his brother. Joe. , Mr. Shaw informed the Herald
had in about 2."0 acres of wheat man that as soon as he could get
this year and that they did very , the stock arranged he would
well, considering the extreme .open the doors to the public, and
MANY BIDDERS.
Tuesday found many mer
chants from all over Southeast
Missouri in Hayti, they coming
for the purpose of purchasing
the E. S. Fuller bankrupt stock.
The stock was a new one, be
ing only about one year old, and
was good and clean, all saleable
goods. Thus the cause or many
bidders.
The bidders were at the store
early in the morning, everyone
taking a close observation.
The bidders in attendance
were: I. Kohn, L. C. Averill. A.
G. Sanders, this city; H. Hen
derson, Concord; D. L. Shaw,
Philip Hamra, Wolf Khourie, M.
Kramer, S. Gould, Caruthers
ville; L. Segal and son, Louie,
Portageville, Theaman, St.
Louis; M. Banks, Dexter; Dave
Miller, Senath; Z. A. Heiserer,
Oran; J. R. Dunn, Cairo.
The goods were appraised at a
little more than $1400 and the
lixtures at $300. Under the ham
mer the complete stock and fix-
wet weather this year.
souri troops one uniform, one A, r, 1 ,, , ,
, ' , Mrs. C. J. Mayes, who has
suit underwear, two pair shoes, , ,. ... , , . , ,
, . ' ' , ' been attending the bedside of
four pair socks, and a mandatory , . . ... n ..- r.
her sister, Miss Hettie Dorns,
h.'iucm Miiiii nit; suuuuis Keep
I clean. This fact is shown by the
who is in St. Luke's Hospital, re-
was going to offer them some
rare bargains. It is possible
that Mr. Shaw will retain the
store in this city and add other
lines of goods.
K. A Is up and family left Sat- Circuit Court convened Mon-
urday for several day's visit with day morning with many cases
Mrs. Alsup's parents in Menton svJt 1" trial. Among the cases
county, Tennessee. This will be tiied up to the time of going to
(he first time Mrs. Alsup will press was that oi Pearl Maird,
have seen her parents in about 11 who shot into a funeral posses
sion several months ago and
wounded several persons, which
resulted in conviction and sen
tenced to three years in the
penitentiary.
W L. L'ig-d'in oi Micol.i. one
of the pioneer IVmNrot cit'wns,
was in town Tuesday shaking
hands with old friends. Mr.
liOgsdnn looks in good health,
although he is climbing up in
,ears. but we predict that he is
here for several long years yet.
years. Of course while then'
Mr. Alsup will forget about busi
ness allairs at home ami enjoy
Minself imiiH'ti-'-ly.
! fact that health in our camp is iast weojf j,.s q Weriil ' JoeCanady, one of the boosters
'excellent. The boys are feeling "1 , ,' o' . ' i ' u. of the Herald was in town Sat-
L. . .., . , , returned home Saturday night, i , "CU1" '. ," oau
i nne since the receipt of the cots. , urday and renewed his subsenp-
(Kiliabeih Uveuina TlnniJ Before now, for thvee weeks thpy Bring your chickens and eggs tion to the Herald. Mr. Canady
slent in the dust from one to tome. A.G.Sanders. Ilfl and his family left Tuesday for
three inches deep, and of course l Segal and wife af Portage- WeDD City, where they will make
during this time they did not feel ville came down Mondav for a' their new home,
like drilling and didn't like their couple of (laysi visit th thel Tne Herald understands that
border visit at all. lamily of r. Kohn Tuesday, ' W. P. Meatte has contracted for
The :!rd Missouri Regiment rmio r.ktiI Cm,nfr,. nn,i m 'h, o:i.. o u..:u:
debate Friday, August Is, and with Maine and ew Hampshire , i i - , 7. , T. i ,TB'
. , . .' . " ' ! wiin -iainc ana .m nampsiuie Segal, came down and he and now occupied by the E. S. Fuller
everybody is invited. have formed one brigade. his father were one of the bid- bankrupt stock, and will move
Rev J. L. Woolverton, who has j Liout. E. S. Huffman was the ders at the E. S. Fuller bankrupt' his saloon to it. This will be a
been engaged in a meeting at proudest man in the Missouri sale that afternoon. much better place for him as a
Chute Sixteen lor several weeks, camp Monday, Mrs. Huffman had ' business location
No. 8 Items.
The debating society at Cas-1
sidy school is progressing nicely.
They are going to give another
For odd i.uit ami overal
n't Lt'i.t A '. S.inoors.
is Villi
"ity Marshal W. K Kohi-rison,
. 'ui spent tlii' hitler part ol last
1 ek in .loiicribnio, Ark, and
, derweut an operation r nasal
t.eutinn, returned hoiin- Monday
:: oriiiug, and is on duty.
Geo. Park and daughters, '
Misses Mary and Thelma, are in I
Miss Irene Riii buck, si'iiior
i. distant at the posiotijce. is now ingut.-. (5
' .king her auiniul vacation. Mis
r-i'He Hayes is lilling her plac
riinre is something to it- -trad
Sanders. I!'.
10. Alsup is another one of
those who have taken advantage
lohn Huc.kaba of Braggadocio 01 the inducement made by the
w looking after business inter htuI(1. He lias again renewed
ts in llayti Saturday. ; ,-,., subscription.
Firestone Tires and Tubes j Fly Knocker and Stock Dip
:.l Letter's Drug Store. I at Lefler's Drug Store.
.53
IMPORTANT NOTICE!
I aim making Reduced Prices on
my entire stock of
PAINT
and will close out all my paints
Fresh Stock Buy Now and Save Money
Dr. Trautmann's Drug Store
llayti, Mo.
Satisfied customers our best advertisement.
returned home Thursday last arrived
and rcuiaiiifil until Saturday,
when he left to conduct a meet- very
ing at Carson Lake, Ark. for red back to the company. He
, says there is no place like home.
Walter Lambing has been
, t ninliiKia.1 f ..., flui Un...l ,.
Jeunessee for a tew weeks visit. : ,, ,, ' ,
iters company to Co. U." We
Miss Meda Clark was visiting are getting our old men back in
Miss Clark A .vers at No. !), Ark., 'addition to some new ones,
last Saturday and Sunday. The boys send best regards to,
Cecil Jenkins of Cooter was ' homefolks, and that they will be
visiting in this burg Sunday. pillowed to return soon.
Forest and Rov Woolverton, I
who have been visiting the lamily j Kon J I'"iw, a staunch re-
ofW. M. Woolverton at Marie, j Publi-,il'1 of braggadocio, was in
Ark., returned home Thursday I l,nvn Saturday. Although Hen
o last week. ; is quite to the contrary to the
,,.,. ,..,'. . ,. ... Herald in politics, he says the
Kill Mai lev is residme- at No. !). .
' " ' Mf.Mil.l t- .1 r.'wwl nnit.kii n...l ..-.
.......lit tn tk iuuii ftiJi;i uwu lu
C-1..-.1. Ci 1. I D li
jaivci kJiucK aiiu i uuurv i
John L Shopard is working remedies at Lefler.s Drug Electric Fans, Irons, Lamps,
naru irymg to get trans- e. . ,, , o
oiore. ai verier s urug oiore.
Ark.
Mill White and Hobart Marker,
who have been in Southern! Illi
nois lor a month, have returned
home.
Ike is going to school at Cooler
now.
NiMHi.r. Iki:.
Arthur Allen of Huyti was hero
Saturday, and that night played
a trombone in the Piggott baud,
and was highly complimented by
nandumster Kdleman, Mr. Al
ien should feel proud of the
judgment passed on him by our
musical director, who has played
for tho nobility of Europe, and
has many medals certifying his
greatness as a musician. Pig
gott (Ark.) Critic.
Eastman Kodaks at Lef
ler's Drug Store,
back up his statement he renewed
his subscription. Well, anyway,
we're glad to keep Mr. Phillips
on our subscription list.
DawsonWells and sister, Miss
Irene, who have been visiting
their sister, Mrs. M. S. Stearns,
in St. Louis' for several weeks,
returned home Monday night.
Ross Mettis and family of
P.iscola are now residents of this
city. Wo are glad to welcouiR
Mr. Mettis to this city, feeling
that he is a valuable asset.
C. L. Whitner and sons motored
down from Fredericktowu Sat
urday and was looking over farm
ing conditions in this county.
Guitars, Violins, Banjos,
and Mandolins, at cut nrices.
i ...
at Lefler's Drug Store,
L
We Have the
Goods
Yes, we have the goods. Those who trade here
know. If you don't believe it, we will prove it to you if
you .will give us half a chance.
Satisfy your customer and he will send you other
customers to satisfy. We know that to be true, and that
is the reason that we have the goods that satisfy.
McElroy-Sloan Shoes
Excello Flour
Elk and Pilot Brand Goods
ALL SATISFY
and they can be found at
BUCKLEY'S
