rm
n
MES
VOL. XX NO. 131.
UAItHK, VERMONT, THURSDAY, AUGUST 17, 1910.
PRICK, OXE CENT.
THE BARRE DAILY
1
DRIVE
IN WEST
FURIOUS
The French and British Are
Punching Biff Hole in the
German Line on the Som
me River, Now Holding
Important Positions Dom
inating Maurepas, on the
Road to Peronne
POWERFUL BARRIERS
HAVE BEEN REMOVED
Drive on Wednesday Forced
the German Line Back
Over a Front of Three
Miles and to a Depth in
Some Places of 400 Yards
Artillery Duel Resumed
ANGLO-FRENCH DRIVE
MOVES AHEAD ON
THREE-MILE FRONT
Allies Struck with Terrific Force in Three
Directions and Have Now Flanked
Maurepas and Clery, Says
London Report.
London. Aug. 17 The French and Brit
ish, striking with terrilie force in throe
directions on the Soinmn front, have
stormed nearly three miles of fierman
trenches, driving forward at points to a
dentil of 30 and fiOO yards.
The most important gains were made
by the Dritish una trench troops strut
ing north from the point where the allied
lines meet. Maurepas and Clery, two
of the most important points held by the
Hermans m this sector, have been IlanKea
on both siiies, according to me omciai
statement issued bv Paris. The road has
also been reached between Maurepas and
Guillemont, the latter town being t lie
immediate objective of the British. This
advance, if maintained, brings the al
lies directly in front of the large rail
road tow n of Combles.
South of the Somme the French
stormed German trenches over a length
of about three-quarters of a mile, dnv
ing forward in a southerly direction trom
Belloy-En-Santerre. Paris reports that
a considerable number of prisoners were
taken in these operations.
WHY OFFENSIVE IS SLOW
Paris, Aug. 17 Ciolcnt artillery duels
are in progress north of Maurepas in the
Somme region, says the war office state
ment to-day. The operations on three
different parts of the Somme front yes
terday resulted in the removal of some
of the barriers of the powerful German
defensive system. The French have a
dominating position northwest of Maure
pas. The official statement issued last night
tells of the capture of German trenches
on a front of 1,500 meters to the north
of Maurepas. The statement is as fol
lows:
"On the Somme front this afternoon
after an intense artillery preparation we
launched an offensive which brought us
important gains. North of Maurepas as
sisted by the British we captured one
entire line of German trenches on
front of 1,500 meters reaching at certain
points on the Guillemont-Maurepas road
"South of Maurepas on a front of
two kilometers and to a depth of 300 to
BOO meters our mf antry occupied a:r ens
my position east of the Maurepas-Clery
road after a sharp attack which cost
the enemy heavily. These two opera
tions brilliantly and rapidly conducted
resulted in the capture of a considerable
number of prisoners whose numbers are
not yet obtainable.
i "At the same time south of the Somme
our troops attacking with a rush cap
tured a powerfully organized system of
German trenches on a length of 1,200
meters, south of Belloy-En-ianterre,
capturing 60 prisoners. I here was an
intermittent cannonade on the remainder
of the front."
HEAVY FIGHTING
IN THE BALKANS
Bulgarian Statement Tells of Strong Al
lied Attacks Being Repulsed French
Reports Capture of Four Villages.
London, Aug. 17. Heavy fighting on
the Balkan front is reported in the offi
cial Bulgarian statement received from
Sofia. The allied forces delivered strong
infantry attacks but were repulsed.
Paris, Aug. 17. The allied forces on
the Saloniki front have captured the
railroad station at Doiran and four vil
lages at other points on the front, ac
cording to an official statement, issued
by the French war office last night. The
statement covers continuous fighting ex
tending from August 1 to the present
time.
The statement shows that the Bulga
rians are being engaged along practically
100 miles of the Serbian-Greek frontier.
ITALIANS WILL
STRAIGHTEN LINE
Probably There Will Be No Advance on
Triest Until Mountains Lying Be
tween Tolmino and Go
ritzia Are Captured.
Rome, Aug. 17. The Italian army is
being held back on the lower Isonzo front
until the line on the upper Isonzo can be
straightened by the capture of moun
tains lying between Tolmino and Gorit
zia. Probably there will be no advance
on Triest until the mountains have been
taken.
BRITISH ARE CUTTING
GUILLEMONT OFF
Official Statement Issued in London Says
That Troops Pushed Forward Both
West and Southwest of
the Town.
London, Aug. 17. The British have
Military Situation and Economy of Men
Given as Reasons at Paris.
Paris, Aug. 17. The apparent slow
rate of progress by the French and Brit
sh forces on the western front since
July 1, as compared with that of the
Russians on the eastern front, It is ex
plained in military circles here is due to
the methodical nature of the entente
offensive against a line of strongly for-
ified positions extending virtually from
the North sea to Salonica and the fact
that infantry must wait until the artil
lery has done its work. The front of
the central powers in the western theatre
of the war is much more strongly forti
fied than the front with which the Rus
sian armies have had to deal, so the lat
ter are in a better situation for maneu
vering on a large scale.
One of the principal drawbacks against
the entente allies on the western front is
the nature of the Teutonic positions,
which prohibit the use of the wings of
the entente armies. The Russians, how
ever, face no such obstacle. The Rus
sian operations, it is explained further,
have not been planned with political con
siderations in view, such as necessarily
have arisen on the western front owing
to the co-operation of various entente
armies.
WILSON
IGNORES
BOARD
Failing to Bring: Them to an
Agreement for an Eight
Hour Day, He Appealed
Directly to Heads of the
Railroads for Conference
THEY ACCEPTED
THE INVITATION
Pending Their Arrival in
Washington, President
Wilson Will Not Discuss
the Matter Further with
the Managers, Who Were
Obdurate
CLAIM ALLIESREF
German
JD.
jay French and British Were
Driven Back.
Berlin, Aug. 17. The French and the
Br;tish made heavy attacks oij the
Somme front but were driven back by
the Germans, the official statement an
nounced to-day.
BACK IN CAMP
Vermont Had Engaged the "Enemy" in
Hard Battle.
Eagle Pass, Tex., Aug. 17. The 1st
Vermont got back to camp yesterday
afternoon after engaging the enemy in a
stand-up fight. Tue valor of the north
erners told in the end and the foe was
beaten off. Of course, the whole fight
wan an imaginary one. The fellows were
merely carrying out the instructions is
sued in this week's program.
The three battalions met Separate de
tachments of the enern. At least, they
assumed that they met the enemy. They
had to assume several other things,
among them that the enemy could not
withstand them and had to skedaddle
across the river. But their imaginations
were not the only agencies that led the
Vermonters to feel they won the fight.
Their whole plan of attack was thought
out so well and carried out so well that
those who tried to stack up against Col.
Reeves regiment found they had no
show.
Some of the men had to dig trenches.
They had to dig deep. The order called
for the establishing of standing trenches,
which meant that the trenches' had to be
deep enough to accommodate a man
standing up. There are some pretty tall
men in the regiment, thus the diggers
had to make sure that they provided ac
commodations for all.
The Vermonters, with the rest of the
guardsmen and the regulars here, had a
little excitement Tuesday night. Word
was sent to district headquarters that a
band of villista soldiers were on the
other side of the river at Lehmanna ranch,
18 miles from here and directly oppo
site the camp of some American soldiers.
Immediately the order was sent out
from headquarters for reinforcements.
Several motor truck came to the citv
nd men of the 30th infantry piled in
and the autos made a dashing trip to the
ranch. It was discovered later that the
supposed Villistaa were Carranzista sol
diers who planned no harm.
Some of the V ermont companies re
turned to camp Sunday night from Leh-
nianns, whsrre they had been stationed
several weeks.
New York, Aug. 17. The railroad pres
ident, of the country have accepted Pres
ident Wilson's invitation to come to
Washington to confer with him. Several
will leave this city this afternoon, and
another delegation will leave from Chicago.
Washington, D. C, Aug. 17. Presi
dent Wilson to-day invited the presidents
of the principal railroads of the country
to come to Washington immediately to
confer with him on the threatened strike,
rending their arrival he does not plan
o see the committee of managers here,
with whom he has been meeting.
The president sent the following tele
gram to the leading railroad presidents:
I he discussion of matters involved in
the threatened railroad strike has
reached a point which makes it highly
desirable that I should personally con
fer, with you at the earliest possible
moment and w'ith the presidents of any
other railways affected who may be im
mediately accessible. 1 hope you can
make it convenient to come to Wash
ington v once." ..::-
The president action in asking for a
conference with the railroad presidents
themselves is interpreted as meaning
that the managers' committee had re
fused finally to Concede the eight-hour
day as President Wilson's plan proposed,
and the question now is to be taken up
with the heads of the railroads them
selves. The situation to-day was this: the
railroads flatly refused to concede an
eight-hour day bnt are willing to arbi
trate that question and all others before
any tribunal the president of the men
may decide upon; the men are willing
to arbitrate some of the questions under
certain conditions but are unwilling to
arbitrate others.
This afternoon the president will pre
sent his plan to the full committee of
600 employes in the hope of getting them
to approve it. The result will be pre
sented to Oib railroad presidents later.
In case President Wilson finds that
any of the railroad presidents cannot
speak absolutely for their roads he may
invite to the White House the financiers
who control them. Officials said to-day
that the president wants to deal with
the ultimatum authority on both sides
in order that the negotiations may be
conducted here.
agreement stipulates that no matter, re
lating to questions of discipline or effi
ciency shall be subject to conference or
arbitration."
At the offices of the public service com
mission last night it was said the agree
ment of Aug. 7 provides for ample ma
chinery for settlement of Just such a
dispute as has arisen over the discharge
of men. The agreement, it was pointed
out, arrange for settlement by artibtral
tion of all questions arising.
EXPECTED TO STRIKE.
1
Union Machinists Employed by Winches
ter Repeating Arms Co.
New Haven, Conn., Aug. 17. Union
machinists employed by tlje Winchester
Repeating Arms company are expected to
go on a strike to-day to secure an eight-
hour day without wane reductions. The
company had 2,000 machinists.
STATE BANKERS MET.
Held
Summer Convention in Richford
Yesterday.
Richford, Aug. 17. The summer con
vention of the Vermont State Bankers'
association was held hero yesterday,
about 100 jankers and other business
men being present, many from town at
tending. In the morning the manufac
turing plants of the village were visited.
At 3 o clock a meeting was helC at Island
park.
following the invocation by Rev. h. a.
Holmes, the address of welcome was giv
en by L. C. leavens of the Richford Sav
ings Bank &. Trust company, and the
response was made by Levi H.
$50,000 GIFT
FOR CAMPAIGN
John Coffin and Wife Make
Additional Contribution
for Prohibition
WISHART BIXBY
MILLION WANTED
FOR THE PURPOSE
Former Barre Young Man and Chelsea
Girl Are Married
At the home of the bride's parents in
Chelsea Wednesday afternoon t 2
o'clock, Miss Mvrtte Klvlra Bixby,
daughter of Postmaster II. . Bixby and
Mm. Bixby, and Harry Rodney Winhart,
son of .Mr. Barbara Wishart of Camp
street, this city. Mere married by Hey
J. A. Lawrence, pastor of the Congrega
tional church. Tho couple were unat
tended and only the immediate relatives
and a few intimate friends of the bride
and groom witnessed the ceremony. The
double ring service was used and the
wedding had for its setting . a room
charmingly arranged in sweet peas, pink
roses, lilies and maiden hair ferns. Miss
Ola Hood played the wedding march
from" Wagner's opera, Lohengrin. The
bride wore georgette crepe over white
taffeta and carried a shower bouquet of
Contributors Had Already roei WMt 1Ier tr,v,,,ini? u,t
- , . J w-aa of dark blue taffeta, trimmed with
uiven $i,uuu ior me maribou uce.
TTr l, I After the ceremony refreshment of ice
cream, cske and punch were served by a
number of the bride s girl friends. Mr.
and Mrs. Wishart left on a bridal tour
through Maine and Massaehusetti and
Indianapolis, Aug. 17. An additional will be at home in Chelsea after Sept. 1
aitt f r-snnnn n.inn.l Wnfcifcl. I J he bride Is one of Chelsea nest
the Montpelier National bank. Addresses party leaders to
were given by William Reed, assistant thus acquired.
cashier of the National City bank of New
York and C. W. Barron, editor of the
Boston News Bureau
At a business session, Olin Merrill of
the Knosburg Falls Savings Bank A
Trust company and vice-president of the
American Bankers association, was
elected delegate to the annual meeting of
- - .- 1 1.. . .. n.i
. . . , . . , , - . . I,HW1,H JUUIIK nuiurii, KIHUU11, Ul Vtll
uu" iuna oy .nr. ,li(?h ,rh(HJ, th nrv,nt & Strat.
Mrs. John Coffin of Florida was an- ton Business college in Boston. Until
nounced to-day. Previously they had given recently she was employed in the law
51,000. The money is to be made the onice ot Manley L. Wilson, former
nucleus for a campaign fund of $1,000,- state's attorney. Mr. Wishart is held in
000. The gifts are in the form of prop- very high esteem by many acquaintances
erty and Florida real estate. A Prohi- In Barre. He was graduated from God
Bixby of bit ion foundation is to be formed by the dard seminary in 1001) and at present
CABOT DRAWS
PEOPLE BACK
Old Home Week Celebration
Is Attracting Many For
mer Residents
FESTIVITIES ARE
NOW AT HEIGHT
Interesting Programs Are
Being Furnished
Each Day
Jane Lamear, 4, of St. Johnsbnry, Was
Not Badly Hurt,
St. Johnsbury, Aug. -17. In an en
deftvor to rforirre nn mitn while crnnaintr
he American association, to be held at ,, TfMti f i hn,. nn-r
11. : " ir f.. : - -""
handle the property I holds tho responsible position of assist
ant cashier ot the .National tsana or
Orange County, in Chelsea.
Among the out of town guests at the
ceremony were Mr. and Mrs. Willis N.
Bixby of Boston, cousins of the bride.
AUTO STRUCK GIRL,
Wil-
lard Scott of Brookline, Mass., was pres
ent as entertainer.
COLBY TOWNSEND
Marriage Took Place at Bride's Home in
P la infield.
PROGRAM ARRANGED
Every Ma Interested in Any Kind of
Agriculture Is Given a Cordial Invi
tation to Attend Joint Picnic and
Demonstration in Barre Aug. 19.
The plans for the big agricultural
meeting at the Granite City trotting wgv overj vhp
pane in narre raiura:iv, auk- l, are
Plainfield, Aug. 17. Miss Lila Town-
send, youngest daughter of Mr. and Mrs
B. H. Townsend, and Burnham A. Colby,
son of Mr. and Mrs. h. J. Colby, were
united in marriage yesterday afternoon
at 2 o clock at the bride s home, Rev. A
W. Hewitt officiating, using the single
ring service.
They were attended by the brides sis
ter, MissYena Townsend, and Edmond
Pike. The bride was gowned in white
Jane Lamear, four years of age, stepped
in front of a car driven by Walter Dar
ling, an employe of the Swift Co., and
was knocked down and badly bruised
Mr. Darling stopped his car and car
ried the little girl into the house. Dr.
FOR FARMERS' DAY prevOMt WRS caIlt"d and found that th"
were no nones broken, but that tne
child's shoulder and back were badly
bruised where the car fender struck.
The accident occurred just in front
of the child's home, which is in the t'eoreette crepe over silk and she carried
Gingus block, on upper Railroad street, bride's roses, while tho bridesmaid was
She is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Da- dressed in blue. Mies Ethel Colby, sis
vid Lamear. The little girl evidently ter of the crooru, played Mendelssohn's
started to cross the street and was part wedding march. About 60 were present,
way over, when a number of machines The decorations in the parlor were of
froincr riOU'n KHtlroari srreef CnnfUSPd HPT. I lu'W nsai ami aanarainia H ,n tha
practically completed. The committee 1 anH in tnHmr n vnM tJi.m h stormed f r.iH. inJ ru. rt,.i
have put in some, hard work on this .l;..tI .- frnBt nf ty,. ... , xr, ii,r. rviKv .,4 m;. v t'a .a
proposition and have got it whipped into linK lu turaed his wheel quickly B0 ch(ir e of the de0orations. After the
shape so that it will surely prove .w, yj .n.H the, rWl. th m. ,v ,A ,. ,r.A
great event for those interested in any ehine- The on! injuriM that developed by Mrs. William Farquharson of South
kind of agriculture, lollow.ng is the H Uie ex(uniDation were bruises and RveKste. The ushers were six of the
program as ii. win De carried out on uiai uwt- ;a.. im r?i.
I ' , , . , . . in 11 .1 Bailaw, Miaaea Alva and Oara Townsend,
;30 a. p.Stok Jdgia contest at -rnT Awn -Fr, Miss Mary Hooker and Miss Hael Ben-
the park. Home economics demonstra- SHOT THREE AND SELF. . ' two schoolmate. Mi.. Wr.
a. : r,. 1. - i, j, - . j it.. , 1 I
the Barre Woman's Cub (conducted by North Adam, Mas,., Man Dead; Victim, hndi" of
Mrs. Dimock). . Will Recover. rni;,- Uminirr , fn,m., ; iqis
11:00 a. m. Stock judging demonstra- ..... T 'A A, i,,, ; form xr, .I
tion by Prof. Storey of the state cc!'ege AQa.m"' "V""' U-XD' "ISV" .llL V-IT
of sericulture prooaoiy sunermg irom religious mania, 1 v ""-
1 r: . . : I j ot . l I .limp nm n urn meTnnerm nr Tne rrra n rrn
19. fill nnni. tllat r.Snn U , A -iol wiu-uui . utniium, afc-ru ii, muim " . T .7" .
" volley of shots out of his window, rear and Methodist church in this place. They
2:00 p. m.-Speking by Stat. Com- ' " eit Main .twet. last evening at by auto for V, el . o
missioner of Arr cnltnr Hon F S Bri. 7 o'clock, wounding three persons, and wedding trip and the last of the month
.11."" tfof X then shot himself through tL head. He po
Greater Vermont association, Hon H "S"1 revolver and fired 13 times. " 8 position as assistant principal in
i-V"?".?0" "f.nl-r Th. r,ex.n wounded are Mr. Xeal the high school at Newark. Both are
, , . i in ii uwihi i. J ( 1 1 n 1 1 i,, li,. nun cw i - i
Yorker; Hon. John D. Willard, secretary
of the Franklin County (Mass.) Farm
bureau.
There will be music by the Barre band
Johnson, aged' 49, shot in the left leg;
Frank Scavo, 64, shot in the right hand,
and Giuseppi Astorino, 30, shot in the
right shoulder. Nona of the wounded
very popular young people.
The gifts, which were numerous,
chided much cut glass and silver.
COMMITTEE GIVEN .
POWER TO STRIKE
If They Fail to Get Settlement of Their
Grievances Against the. New
York Railway Co.
and a ball game will take place immedi- persons is supposed to be in a critical
atelv after the sneakinir condition. All are in the North Adams
At 9:30 the stick iudirinB emntesfc will hospital
heuin. This is a ehane for everrnnA in. Cianfloni died three hours after he
terested in cows to come in and learn Mot himself. The bullet entered the
something about th points to be noticed ri?nt side of his head, just above the
in selecting pood cows for the dairv. ear, passing through the frontal part of
Two breeds will b represented in this the brain and protruded from the left
contest, the Holstein and the Guernsey. id of the head.
not because they are considered superior Cianfloni came to this country March
breeds, but becam-e they are easier of 23 and lived at the house in which he
access. It la hoped another year that the killed himseit, wan nis uncie, lomaso
Ayrshire and the Jersey breeds will be Mazza. He had worked in the Arnold
represented. There will , be four cows Print works till laat Friday, when he
selected in each breed for the contest left his job because he was tormented,
purposes. he said, by boys who worked with him,
A score card such' as wit published in He declined to return to work
this paper recently will be turnished to
AAnh ivtnt ot nt. ttn.l hut wilt thn lwiL-
nvnr th rrxnm BnH nlaj- tli.m a,w,rttm ONE FOOT CRUSHED
I
in hi. i iifrtnT,f oivinop fhem tirsf Ka.. .
ond, third and fourth in each breed.' The Ab Dewutel, Injured By Train Near Al
LOST MUCH BLOOD.
By
MAN BADLY SCALDED
When He Tried to Pour Water into Coffee
Urn at Woodsville.
Woodsville, N. H., Aug.. 17. J. Henry
Sohaefer, a well-known restaurant man
of this place, was seriously scalded yes
terday at his place of business. The acci
dent happened when Mr. Schaefer at
tempted to pour a large pail of boiling
water into the coffee urn, the stool upon
which he stood slippinff and throwing
him to the floor With the hoilintr iimti.-l
made another assault on the Somme , stream inn over him and badlv burning
front. Official announcement has been his rijrht arm and lie.
made, ttatmg that the Tine has been
pushed forward west and southwest of
Guillemont.
RUSSIAN ATTACK CONTINUES.
In Spite of Counter Attack, Say, Petro
grad Report.
retrogrsd. Aug. 17. The Russian ad
He was taken at once to his home at
Wells River and is reported to be aa
comfortable aa could be eaperted.
burg.
Burlington, Aug. 17. Abe Desautels,
who was injured at Alburg last nieht,
was brought to this city on train No. 42,
due to leave this city over the Rutland
road at 9:40. He received serious in
juries in the railroad yard at Alburg
about 8:30 o'clock, his left foot being
badly crushed and almost severed. He
was accompanied to this city by Dr. S.
II. Martin, and was immediately removed
to tho Mary Fletcher hospital in the po
lice automobile.
Desautels was traveling from Malone,
N. 1., to Hamburg and just how he
23 YEARS AS CHAPLAIN.
of counter attacks. The war office re
ports tLat the- assaults Lara beta re
f ulsai . . ...
Rev. John A. Ndbgan of National Sol
dier' Home at Tegns, Dead.
Atiffusta, Me., Aug. 17. The Rev. John
vsnf is still being held up in the faceP. Nelligan, for a quarter of a -entury
score card will be thoroughly explained
just before the contest. Contestants will
have an opportunity to judge either
breed separately oi both breeds and
prizes will be offernd to the winner in
each breed. The contestants will be di
vided into two classes, boys under 18
years and men. It is hoped that every
one interested will come up and take a
hand in this contest. There is no way
to learn how to do anything better than
to do it yourself and this event is ar
ranged particularly because of its edu
cational value. After the contestants
have finished their judging. Prof. Storey
will give a lecture demonstrating differ
ent points to be considered, and his talk,
if one can judge from past experiences
with him, will prove of the most inter
esting variety.
During the time that this demonstra
tion is beine carried on there will be
also a demonstration for the ladies along
the lines of home economics, probably
taking up canning of fruits and vege
tables. This will be held in Howland
hall and will be in charge of Mrs. Dim
ock of Corinth, formerly connected
with the state college of agriculture.
Those driving in with teams and autos
should take their ladies directly to the
park and leave their lunches in places
which will be provided, then tske the
ladies to Howland hall and return to the
park for the stock judging. Provision
-ni W n.n A fnr t.Linff the lnrti,. tiurlr
to the park after the home economics !
demonstration is compli-ted. The ladies Brattleboro, Aiijj. 17. The second day
of the city are particularlv invited to of the Vermont state tennis champion- j
New York, Aug. 17. Authorized by
their union to call a strike on all the sur
face lines of the New York Railways
company, the committee of the union
employes held a conference with the gen
eral manager to demand a settlement of
grievances which have developed since
the recent street car strike.
Theodore P. Shonts, president of thfe
Interborough Rapid Transit, and the
New York Railways company, in a let
ter addressed last night to mayor.and
(liairrusn Straus, called attention to the
ultimatum delivered to him by the em
ployes' committee, which charged that
the New York Railways company had
violated the agreement of Aug. 7 which
brought the strike on the surface car line
to an end. Mr. Shonts denied that his
company had discharged workers be
cause of their affiliation with the car
men's union, and added that "in many
cases employes of this company have
clearly violated the rules of this com
pany, some of the violations increasing
the hazard and endangering the safety
of passengers on our cars."
In a circular distributed among the
employes, the position of the company
was donned In part aa follows:
"This company has not sanctioned the
unionizing of its men. It has said that
if an employe desires to join a union he
shall not be prevented from doing so by
coercion. , or intimidation; neither shall
he be discharged for joining. It has also!attend the "demonstration at the hall and ship tournament brought the play down
Lauis Gatonl, Granite. Cutter, Hit
Flying Steel.
Louis Gatoni,' a granitecutter living
at 92 Railroad street, received a serious
injury at the C. W. McMillan & Son's
plant on Blackwell street this afternoon
when a flying fragment-of steel from a
pneumatic tool struck him in'the left
arm. The steel penetrated to an artery,
the wound bleeding profusely before a
physician could be summoned. The ac
cident occurred soon after I o'clock and
when Dr. J. W. Stewart arrived at the
plant, the flow of blood was temporarily
stopped and on the advice of the physi
cian the man was removed to the City
hospital.
Mr. McMillan is in Cleveland, O., this
week and Arthur D. Young of Young
Bros, carried the man to the hospital
in his automobile. The cut. on Oatoni's
arm occurred just below the elbow and
several stitches were taken after the pa
tient had reached the hospital.
BLACKJACKED AND ROBBED.
Samuel King Told About Being Relieved
of $65 Near Burlington.
Burlington, Aug. 17. An exceptionally
bold robbery, which took place on Shel
burne road Monday night, came hefore
the attention of the authorities yester
day when Samuel King of Shelbume re
was injured could not be learned lastiPorte(1 that he had been knocked in the
night. He was found on a siding in the
Alburg yard by Supervisor F. R. Bour
quin of Rutland, who was passing
through the yard. What train hit him
is not known. Dr. Martin was called
and gave what relief possible, the man
being brought to this city on the next
train. He was taken to the hospital and
his left foot removed. While he had
suffered severely from shock and loss of
blood and while his condition is consid
ered serious, it ia thought he will re
cover. The amputation was just above
the ankle.
HARRIS MAY WIN
Brattleboro Man Goea Into Tennia Semi
Finala for State Title.
said that if an employe does not desire I also invited to the exercise at the park to the semi-finals and finals in both in
head and $ti5 in bills taken from him.
The robber is unknown.
Mr. King, whose home is in Shelburne,
came to this city during the day Mon
day with a load of hav, which he sold
while here. While on his return trip
a young fellow stopped him on Shelburne
road near the ledge road, asking him for
a ride. The youth's request was grant
ed and he climbed on to the hay ra-k.
When near the Henry Drew farm, fur
ther along- the road, the stranger asked
Mr. King if he could change $o. Mr. (
King pulled out his roll, in which there j
were $tf5, and started to find the change.
Before he knew wht was happening the,
yountr man struck him heavily across the
eyes and as he stapgered hack the money
was wrenched from his hands.
The horse bolted and Mr. King was
thrown from the wagon. He wss taken
to the hotel at Shelburne, where his .
I bruises were cleaned lip. The horses
Cabot, Aug. 17. Old Home week in
Cabot is witnessing the reunion of many
families and a renewal of acquaintances
that needed just the stimulus of a well
organized get-together to restore the
camaraderie among the native sons and
daughters that existed in years gone by.
Perhaps it may be safely said that the
exercises yesterday came in un hour
when the old home week spirit was in
full tide. Certainly, none of the celebra
tions to date has been marked by so
large an attendance nor has there pre
vailed at any time in the week a more
genuine feeling that the transplanted
scions of the town are in reality closely
knit together by a common bond and a
common birthright.
From many states in the union, from
many towns in the state, natives and
former residents of this town are assem
bled for the week. The townspeople
have outdone themselves in the matter
of providing entertainment for the guests
of to-day, the "home folks" of yesterday
and whether or not the experiment of
this year's Old nome week becomes a
custom for succeeding generations to ob
serve, those from outside who have joined
in the exercises cannot but feel that hos
pitality In unstinted measure has been
theirs. Beginning Sunday with the un
ion services in the Methodist church.
where the pastor, Rev. Stanley Cross
land, preached an unusually appropriate
sermon, the events of the week have
been most successfully carried out. Mon
day was given over to visiting among
old-time neighbors and other friends and
Tuesday was the. day Set apart for ths
basket picnic at the center of the town,
near the old pond. It was a gala occa
sion, what with speechmaking by many
of the "old guard," music by the Jfarsh-
ffeld Cornet band and various forms of
diversion for old and young alike.
Atty. W. T). Gould of Los Angeles, Cal.,
one of Cabot's sons who has established
himself in his profession, was the prin
cipal speaker and hi3 reminiscences of
old days in the history of the town were
given vigorously and with fine regard for
accuracy. Mr. Gould left Cabot 54 years
ago and has been able to visit his native)
heath but seldom. Naturally, he is one
of the enthusiastic proponents of a per
manent Old Home week for Cabot. On
Tuesday e-eninsr there was a promenada
in the town hall.
Yesterday, the official "Old Home dav."
had its formal beginning for local people
at 11 o'clock with a gathering of fam
ilies and guests here if. the village. Din
ner was served in Society hall by the
Woman's Relief corps and at 2 o'clock
there were special features in school-
house hall with the younsrsters of the
town carrying most of the prominent
parts, most of the participants being
members of Winona temple of the Good
Templars. Fifty children performed
gracefully and in a manner wholly cred
itable to the occasion in a charming lit
tle cantata, entitled, "The Brownta
Band." The extravaganza, for such it
really was, was given under the direction
of Mrs. B. L. Bruce and Miss Grace)
Morse. Some surprisingly striking ef
fects in costumery were obtained and a
likely setting furnished an admirable
background for the performance. Th
hall was crowded and every part of tho
program was liberally applauded. After
ward Miss Helen Sylvester of Boston,
whose contribution to the al fresco fea
tures of Old Home week Tuesday was
so trraeioiwlv received, repeated her firsti
success in Cabot by giving variations of 1
the Spanish dance. Miss Sylvester ad
dressed herself to the terpsichorean art
with rare aptness and had to respond
with an encore.
Inasmuch as Cabot people are recalling
with a good bit of pride, pardonabln
pride, the fact that this is the 13,'th
year of its existence, an impromptu pro
gram of speechmaking after the program
partook of the nature of a historical re-
i view. I here were t hose present, oeyona
doubt, who found they had much toi
learn about the history of their own
town and the achievements of it sons
and daughters when some of the speak
ers were well warmed to their subject
matter. Edward F. Smith presided and
responses made included those of Luki
Fisher. Georpe Harvey. W. D. Gould and
Iathrop Collins. Mrs. Wells read a num
ber of original verses bv John Austin.
N'one of the speakers neglected to plar
deserved stress on Cabot s prominenee as
an agricultural town and plenty of at
tention was paid to thoe men of Massa
chusetts and Connecticut who came t
Vermont a -pioneering nearly a century
and a hslf ago and showed their fsetilty
I for picKing garoen spon ny seining m
Cabot.
The Cabot orchestra furnished rnusta
to join a union he shail not be coerced
or intimidated into doing so either by
including the basket picnic at noon. jP'es and doubles, with the prospect that
. j were found later in the night. The rob- j n(, . the ,x,nin(r lhre ,r ,n interest-
chaplain cf the national aH.ber' home a
Togus, is dead after a short illness at t&ajciency of service is the maint'nani
of 67 . ..,,, ... ,-..,. reasonable and fair diaciplinaj
The nrotrram of speaking w ill begin at I Fred H. Hams, present Mate champion
unionised employes of this company or j 2 p. m. E. S. Brigham will act as mas- will face A. H. Cbapin of Springfield,
members of an organization not em-j ter of ceremonies, introducing J. P. Tay- Mass., champion or that city, in the
ployes of this company. j or. secretary of the Greater Vermont j finals. The feature mat"h "yesterday
"The company explicitly reserves the 'association: H. W. IVdlingwood. editor of j was between Harris and Arthur Vezey,
direction and control of employes in all j the Rural New Yorker, who w ill -juif champion of MontreaL It was a s'arii-
v 'matters locking to efficiency in the serv-j here directlv from New York City, and, bang back court game nwt of the titr-e
1 1 ice. The most important item of effi- .K.hn D. Wiliard. etntry of the Frank-j end Yerev forced the frt set to lO g
ce of J 'tftore losing. Twice in this aet he was
Tha j. jContsnuc J ca eiUli page ..-I within ona poiat of nctorT't
jberv was committed by a young man f
medium height rather well dressed
dark suit.
HUGHES BECOMES HOARSE.
ng illustrated lecture. "From the Man
ger to the Throne." 'n the Methodist
i church. To-night there will be a ban
lotict in town ball, served by the .Tndith
i T T-ford Woman's club. Manv old-timer
. T . . . ,. tre to be eested at the spesker's table.
Hard Campaigning Beginning to Tell " , u-;i:.m Va!ker will B-t as toatmatr.
Republican Candidate. j To morrow is referred field dy. when
Portlar-d. Ore.. Aug. 17. Charfr F j a program of sports ill hold the renter
Hugh- l.-ft to-dar for San Franciou.l
H-a yoke feaa become o.u.t hoarse. . - (Cental ul en fourth Bsgs-l
