ft
0
Q Lnrgcnt Circuit"' A.,it
Paper in Qu, Qu 0o.UBtT w
$
6 AdrcrtUcrs Knew Where to ft
Place Their Ad
A
AND TUCUMCARI TIMES
VOL. XIV.
TUCUMCARI, QUAY COUNTY, NUV MEXICO, THURSDAY, AUGUST 17. 110
NO. 17
PRES. WILSON TO
CONFER WITH 640
T!
Washington. I). (, Aug. 10. Out
of tli" deadlock between the railroad
managers and the brotherhood leader,
a new proposal appeared today for a
.special commission to consider not
only the present wage dispute hut all
others in the future.
While president Wilson, the man
agers' committee and the .spokesmen
for the men awaited the arrival of the
employers' committee of (J 10 which is
expected here from New York tomor
row for the next white house confer
ence, administration ollicials and the
representatives of the two sides con
sidered the commission idea with n de
cree of seriousness which indicated it
would come into the negotiations as
one of the next steps in the president's
attempt to avert a nation wide strike.
Representatives of the railway man
Hirers were favorable to the tilun. in
principle, and administration ofliciuls '
investigating its availability, found
that A. II. (iarretson, spokesman for
the men, while a member of the federal
industrial relations commission, made
a report favoring such an Idea as an
enlargement of the present federal
board of mediation and councilinticn.
It was realized on all hands, however,
that the proposal was merely in the
status of a suggestion which must pass
the test at further conferences with
the prcsidenU
Meanwhile the situation remained
unchanged, with both sides hoping for
a way out of the dilllculty and no de
velopments promised until tomorrow
when the meeting at the whitchouse
will be resumed.
After speaking tomorrow to the (MO
representatives of the employe, presi
dent Wilson may make public hi re
marks. New York, Aug. Ki. The invitation
of President Wilson to the 010 general
chairmen of the four brotherhoods of
railroad employes to meet him in
Washington to consider his proposals
for settlement of the threatened rail
road strike was accepted by the men
and announcement made that they
would leave for the national capital.
TO TINS VOTERS OF QUAY CO.
I have been chosen by the Socialist
party of Quay county a their nominee
for sheriff, hence this announcement.
A number of people over the coun
ty who do not thoroughly understand
conditions as they exist in and near
my neighborhood are wondering why
some of my neighbors are so strongly
opposing me for sheriff. Here is one
of the reasons. I have the goods on
several violators of the law and they
know that if the citizens of Quay
county elect me as sheriff I will be
dangerous to them and their business.
All I uk of you Mr. citizen, who be
lieve in the strict enforcement of the
law, is to investigate these charade' :
who are opposing me.
HOB N'OI IT..
S. E. PARKER SERIOULY
INJURED WHILE WORKING
IN A WELL ON HIS PLAGE
S. E. Parker, who lives southwest
of Tucumcari nenr Oodson, narrowly
escaped being killed Wednesday morn
ing while cleaning out a well on his
farm. The well was a large one lined
with rock, and about thirty feet deep.
While working in the bottom a rock
fell from the top and struck Mr. Par
ker on the head. He was knocked un
conscious ami remained that way sev
eral minutes before it was found that
he was Injured.
Assistance was summoned and Mr.
Parker taken from the well. Or. J.
E. Manney was called and drove to
tho Parker farm in his auto. It was
sometime before he regained conscious
ness and while tho skull wns not frac
tured, he is not yet fully out of dan
ger but hopes are ascertained for his
complete recovery.
EIHTOH WHITE'S LITTLE SON
DIES SICK ONLY A WEEK
Ira Watson White, youngest son of
Mr. and Mm. .1. T. White, of San Jon,
was brought to Tucumcari a few days
ago iiuffering from gnstro-entcritis.
Tho little fellow gradually grew worse
and died Thursday morning of this
week. He was only sick about a week
and everything possible was done to
relieve his sufferings but without any
success. Tho remains were taken to
San Jon for burial,
RAILROAD WILL GIVE RATES
A. Peterson was hero from Amarillo
looking after business interests for
tho Rock Island. He said he would
do nil he could to havo his company
make special rates to tho big round
up hero in October. He is a live wire
and can bo counted upon to do his
part in making tho round-up a sure
enough success,
UNIONISTS TODAY
SANTA I'li MEN "HOLLER"
The Associated Press dispatches nro
containing an appeal from the train
men of the great Santa Fe system
to Senator Catron and others to use
their influence upon President Wil
son and others in high authority to
prevent the big railroad strike. They ,
claim that their wages are not as
great as that of union men, therefore
they cannot afford to lose their jobs.
Scabs are never so valuable as union
workmen, but the El Paso & South
western railroad will not he affected
if the government forces the railroads
to give their men the eight hour day
ami time and a half for over time.
That is what the K. P. & S. W. road
is al reaily doing. The managers of
this road are like Henry Ford, they
believe in paying the best possible
wages without being forced, therefore
they secure the best workmen possi
ble. .Men well fed and well paid, who
are also treated as human beings will
pay their employers much more than
slave who have to woik every day
and every hour to keep soul anil body
together. An engineer who works
only eight hours, sleeps ight hours
ami plays eight hours is more alert
and much safer for the traveling pub
lic. If a train can be taken safely to
its destination in eight hours that has
heretofore been delayed from time to
time thus taking fourteen to sixteen
hours to turn the trick, it stands to
reason that while the railroads would
be working to their own interests they
would greatly increase the efficiency
of their trainmen the men behind the
power that moves the world's com
merce. M'ELROY MAKES STATE
MENT IN REGARDS TO
PROHIBITION MOVEMENT
Editor Tucumcari News,
Dear Sir; -
Presuming upon your liberality in
the past, I beg to again use the col
umns of the News to make a state
ment in reference to the Prohibition
movement:
I 'ir.it, permit me to say that I did
not anticipate that my resignation
from tho Republican Party would be
the occasion of any considerable com
ment. It has been known for a long
time that my greatest political Inter
est is centered in Prohibition. I hnvo
come to tho place where I can best
work in that party, and do not care
to be bound to support the party can
didates in any party who do not stand
for the things I stand for. I have
been accused of being a party traitor
because I worked in the party right
up to the time of my resignation. I
am not aware that 1 have injured the
Republican cause in any way. On the
contrary I helped to get the declara
tion in the Resolutions favoring the
submission of a Prohibition Amend
ment, anil in regard to that, the Demo
crats thought so well of it. that they
likewise followed the example. That
is something new in Quay county poli
tics. I want to say this, though, I did
not, as a Republican, vote in the Dem
ocratic primary, taking the pledge on
the back of the Primary Ticket that
I had atllliated with that party, and
thus interfering with the rights of the
Democrats to elect their own party
ticket. I am not an issue before the
people and I will not have the time
nor take the trouble to answer fur
ther any personal criticisms directed
to me.
One of my very best friends has
stated to me that he feared I had made
a mistake in my actions, that I had
injured my chances for future political
success. I want to say that my prin
ciples are not in any way controlled
by future prospects of political suc
cess in a personal way. I a:k no po
litical office as a reward for public
service, and I well know that the cause
of Prohibition is far too great a cause
for me to detract from, by anything
that I might do. If I make mistakes
in my zeal for prohibition, and who of
us do not, just attribute them to me
personally and not to the cause of
prohibition.
For tho first time in a generation
the prohibition issue was officially pre
sented and considered by three great
political parties' committees on reso
lutions. Tho Republican committee
registered a unanimous vote against
tho proposition, and tho Progressive
committee registered thirteen votes in
fuvjjr, with a strong majority against.
The most signillcant news item con
tained in the reports from the Pro
gressive national convention is that
tho chief argument against tho intro
duction of a prohibition plank in its
platform was that "PROHIBITION
WOULD HECOME THE ONE GREAT
ISSUE OF THE CAMPAIGN, SUB
ORDINATING ALL OTHERS TO IT
SELF." Tho same .statement was long
ago attributed to President Wilson,
and has become accepted as current
coin by many of tho most clover pol
iticians. Tho great parties havo turn
ed down tho paramount issue for tho
next four years, and in tho issuo of
greatest moment to mo, I find no place
to stand except upon tho truly great
platform of tho Prohibition Party.
Tho fundamental difference between
tho Democratic party and Republican
DEMOCRATS SELECT
NINE DELEGATES TO
STATE CONVENTION
The Democrats in convention here
Saturday chose nine delegates to rep
resent Quay county nt tho State Con
vention to lie held at Santa Fe when
the candidate for the state offices will
be chosen. Those selected were:
itaniey Scnrbrough, McAlister.
J. W. Corn, Tucumcari.
John Robins, Hudson.
C. H. Alldredge. Tucumcari.
Alex. Aston, San Jon.
John Bell, Nara Visa.
W. T.'Phipps, En.lee.
Florencio Martinez, Logan.
Albert Calisch, Montoya.
Alternates--II. O. Norris, M. S. Un
derwood, John Briscoe, Jas. Taylor, M.
R. James, l.ticretio Gomez and Marian
Davis.
The new member.s of the state com
mittee are A. S. Reaves and R. A.
Dodson.
Tho convention opened in the morn
ing with a good-sized crowd present.
It was called to order by James Bris
coe, acting secretary. The first thing
in ordCr was the selection of chairman
for the convention. Two names were
submitted and after a vote was taken
C. H. Alldredge won over A. S. Reaves
by a vote of fift to 18. In this contest
Tucumcari voted her solid strength
of ill votes for Mr. Alldredge, while
Entice, the home of Mr. Reaves, voted vention that ho was glad to hear them
her solid strength of six for Mr. All- declare for state-wide prohibition and
dredge instead of their home man. wished to havo the sUito representa
This was done at the request of Mr. tives and senate instructed to vote for
Reaves. that when tho opportunity presents
Barney Scnrbrough was chosen as itself. He plead with those who he
secretary. Moved in true democratic principles to
Chairman Alldredge then was given vote solidly for the president, gover
permission to choose three member nor and state senator and representa
each to the following committees: tives. Each one needs the others ns
Resolutions J. M. Stark, II. O. Nor- sistance and he would not handicap a
lis and C W. White. .democratic governor by electing a re
Credentials Pablo Gomez, B L. , publican legislature. When the demo
Francis and Tobe Ward. cratic principles are at stake he would
Order of Business--E. F. Saxon, j Iut'O them oto the ticket straight.
Pat Sanchez and Ja. Taylor. Other speeches were ninde and the
The convention then adjourned for day was passed without much scrap
dinner. ' ping, but those who had things in
After dinner the committees were 1 charge were organized to the tooth
asked to report. No objections were and nothing could have prevailed to
made to either report with the excep. alter the course as followed.
party has resolved Itself into just this. Kjye a good slice of iu campaign fund
the Republicans believe in fixing the t.. have the credit for Wilson's Bank
tnrill' a little higher than the Demo- jmr Bill, written by Brvan. and both
crnts, and each section of the country
wants the tariff only on the products
which it produces and not on the very
things that section has to buy. thus
making it purely a selfish and local
treasure The Prohibitionists advo-
cate a non-partisan tariff commission,
composed of specialists, free from the
control of any party, to gather infor
mation and recommend legislation for
the welfare of American business and
labor. The unsettled condition of all
business and the unrest which nccom-
panics the national political campaign
every four years, owing to tariff agi-
tation, does more harm to the busl-
ness interests of the country and the
laboring man than the slight raising
or lowering of tariff schedules which
is from time to time accomplished.
The changes in tariff, after all, are
so far away from the pocket of the
common mortjil that we little feel it.
compared to me vast tnntuo taiten
directly from the pocket of tho poor j
laboring man who has just handed ,
over lus last nlcuel Horn his weekly;
pay check to satisfy the insatiable !
greed of the liquor truffle.
In his keynote speech at the recent j
National convention. Hon, David A. I
Poling, said:
"So long as the American people
countenance and protect tho robber
that filches two and a quarter hlllion
dollars from them annually imi
amount which approaches one hundred
dollars for every family under the
Stars and Stripes ho cost of -ui'. he was so dtunk that ho did not know
will not tie greatly reduced.'' what ho was doing. The judge gnve
I do not believe in living In tho past him n small fine. He paid it and was
glory of one's party, but I believe in released,
being a true American first and a par-1 .
tlsai secondly. . DESERTERS PICKED UP
Tho Prohibition partv in the real Messrs. Ballis, Bianzano and Elm
progressive party. It lira declared I list, former members of tho U. S.
for woman suffrage initiative and "'"my, wro picked up hero by the R.
refo.-endt m. election of United States ' P nd lodged in tho county jail,
senators by direct vote, tarif eommis ; ' oy wore without money and arrcst
sion, uniform marriar.- and divorce 'd on tho churge of vagrancy. They
lawi, a-t-unst ihild laiioi, n tho in- Cl'mtl naro from Nogales, Ariz., nnd
come tax, and the fedeial prohibition ! report a number more leaving at the
amendment. Other partio have later rn) time. They will be held by the
adopted these principles but the Pro- authorities until government oflkers
hihitionists took the advance ground i com "fter them and accompany
first and long before others. The last i tllti,n '"-'k to their regiments.
hut greatest principle of the Prohibi
tion party will be written in the plat
forms of both tho Democratii' and
Republican parties in lll'JO. I'hu other
parties haw advanced with the pro
gross of tho nation, no doubt, each
seeking to write a platform to get in
on which will outstrip the other, but
under present day conditions though
there is a difference in measures, there
is littlo fundamental difference in a
principle. Tho Republicans would
Hon of tho chair being allowed too
much power of appointment. This
obstacle was overcome and the chaii
appointed Messrs. Stanflll, Wm. Phlpp
and Ira Livingston as a committee to
name the nine delegates and nine al
ternates to tho state convention.
The roMnllltifHIH nnilm-mut .tiilfocunn
Jackson and Woodrow Wilson and
commended President Wilson on his '
constructive legislation, claiming that '
ho hud accomplished more during the ,
last four years than tho republicans ,
did during their forty years in power,
Thoy endorsed Gov. McDonald for his
economicul administration, endorse the""1; ,ne m" lwniy-iour years.
stnte representatives and senator from
this county; also tho ellicient admin
istration of the present county offi
cials. They condemned tho republicans of
the state legislature for the unseating
ot enough democrats to make a two
thirds majority in that body in order I
that they could pass republican mens-!
uros, especially the high salary
bill.
over the governor's veto.
They declared in favor of submis
misaion of prohibition to the voters
T f:.s:".u" I
i. .'i. v. iii iimiiiii was men caucu ior
to make a speech. He told the con
are striving to present to the nation
the superiority of its brand of Ameri-
nmism. But in 11120 we ate all going
t get together and present to tho
nation the paramount issue, National
prohibition, but even before that. New
Mexico is going to be dry.
Very truly yours,
HARRY H. McELROY.
EITZEN BUYS FARM. WILL
(SHOW VEGETABLES. ETC.
W. J. Eitzen has purchased the Geo.
Murphy farm of 100 acres west of
I ucumcari and will improve it in many
ways. It is understood that he will
, irrigate several acres and plant it
to vegetables for the Tucumcari rnar-
ket. He also proposes to put out a
I number of acres to roses and flowers
f all kinds. Mr. Eitzen has plenty
-.f money to carry out his nlnns and
the citizens of Tucumcari will surely
1 appreciate his efforts well cnoutrh to
nsist him in every way to make a
access. He has asked no bonus from
I ucumcari but intends to make this
investment pay for itself.
CAUGHT STEALING BRIDLE
Luis Meistas, who livos west of town
was caught Saturday night in tho act
of stealing a bridle from a horse in
the wagon yard. Deputy sheriff White
happened to be in the yard on business
and took Mr. Mexican in tow. At the
police court Monday morning ho did
not deny taking tho bridle, hut said
GOOD RAINS IN COUNTY
Good rains are roported in all di
rection, from Tucumcnri. While we
nro not suffering for moisture this part
of tho county could absorb much more
thun it now holds. Monduy a big rain
fell at Montoyn. Wednesday a nice
rain fell all tho way from Santa Rosa
to Cuorvo, too much to make nutoing
a plcasuro. Tho plains country is re
ceiving somo nlco showers,
JOINS THE PROHIBITIONISTS
E. E. Winter, a well known demo
crat who was chosen precinct commit-
' teemnn for the first district at tho re
cent primary, is this week notifying
the county chairman of his withdrawal
from the democratic party. Mr. Win-
1 tcr is an excellent man and the demo
crat aie sorry to lose him, but ro
j mote It In- and the following letter is
, self-explanatory:
Tucumcari. N. M., Aug. 10, l&lfl
' Mr. Ira J. Briscoe,
I County Chairman of the Democratic
I County Central Committee, City,
j Dear sir:
I hereby tender my resignation us
: Precinct committeeman of Precinct
No. One, Quay county, Now Mexico,
and also, I wish to Inform you that it
is my intention to withdraw from the
democratic party, and align myself
with the National Prohibition party.
I assure you that it has caused mc
M,mt' rL'K,'c,t t0 mul t,mt conscience
JeiniinilK my withdrawal from the
:lt'mo('1,'atit' ,mrty ,at lhl? time l,s 1
lu!v,0 'R'L'" vc'r-v l'-'usantly associated
w,lh, mcrnt nil my life, and have
Prtieipatcd in tho nomination and
'" tho democratic ticket dur-
I am sure, however, that you are
well informed as to my loyalty to tho
prohibition cause, and will not be sur
prised when I state that prohibition
stands paramount to any ties the dem
ocrats have upon me.
I wish to thank the democrats of
,'rc'cl"cl One fur the honor con-
u:rrr "non mb ,n th0 rcccnt P"mnry
in i-iui'uiiK me iirui-inci commiuccmun.
Very truly yours,
E. E. WINTER.
NON-COMMISSIONED OFFI
CER IS GIVEN TEN DAYS
FOR BEING DRUNK
Joseph G. Eichler, a non-commissioned
officer formerly with a Con
necticutt regiment, arrived in Tucum
cari Wednesday morning, hatless, pen
niless, watchless, but loaded with fire
water of somo unknown brand. Ho
proceeded to tell our citizens that if
they didn't do as he said hia regiment
would come and get us. The city mur
shal was notified and arrested Mr. sol
dier man. Eichler said he would sue
the city for falso imprisonment. He
was loft in the city bastile until the
next morning when he had sobered up.
He then seemed like a real nice chap.
His story, while possible, was not
hardly probable. Ho said he was given
an honorable discharge from his reg
iment at Nogales. He was given the
money with which to buy his return
ticket and pay other necessary ex
penses. That is the last he remem
bers with tho exception that he took
a few drinks, the first he hnd taken
in two years. He thinks now ho wns
doped. Ho said he boarded the train
and rode this far in a Pullman. He
lost his watch, money, hat and nearly
every other thing of value, but he wns
sure loaded for a bear. The judge
gave him ten days for drunkenness
and in the meantime communications
are being exchanged with officials at
Nogales to :ee whether his story is
true or not.
After Eichler sobered up Thursday
morning he appeared to bo a nice fel
low and it was hard for the judge to
pass sentence upon him, but old John
Barleycorn is no respecter of persons
and the law does not allow one drunk
turned loose and one fined for disobey
ing tho law.
FIRST ARKANSAS HANI) WIVES
CONCERT IN TUCUMCARI
The First Arkansas infantry pass
ed through Tucumcari Saturday night
on its way to Doming, N. M where it
will be temporarily locutcd. The band
camo up town and played several fine
selections to a large and appreciative
audience. A good band makes a per
son feel butter than any other kind of
music or entertainment. This hand
was composed of about twenty-five
musicians and thoy sure could play.
RUNNING A BOOK STORE
Earl Gerhardt loft Sunday morning
for Albuquerque, where he will at
tend tho stnte university ngnin this
year. Earl has charge of tho univer
sity book store and for this reason, he
must be there several days before tho
opening of school so that he could put
his store in readiness.
SHIPPED CAR LOAD HOGS
TO KANSAS CITY MARKET
J. C. Robins shipped a car load of
Quay county hogs to Kansas City last
week. Thoy were medium light weight
hogs and the car contained about 77
that avornged 175 pounds each. Mr.
Rollins fattened them on home-grown
maize and corn nt his plnco nine miles
east of Tucumcari.
BUYING NEW GOODS
Mrs. Ellen Garvin, head clerk In tho
dry goods department of the big Gol
denberg store, has returned from ex
tended trip through tho east whoro she
has been on business and pleasure.
She wus buying goods for tho store
nnd visiting friondn nnd relatives on
her way to nnd from New York City.
TUCUMC
PREPAR
ING FOR THREE DAYS
Committees are at work or tho big
Cow-boys' General Round-Up which Is
to be held in Tucumcari October 4,
5 and (J. Thirty-six vico presidents
have been appointed from all section of
the county and they arc being asked
to meet tho finance committee hero
Saturday to make further arrange
ments to make this event one of tho
largest in this part of the country.
The finance committee is composed
of Messrs. Devor, Sandusky, Wofford
Street and Epps and these men will
name the permanent officers.
Tho papers around over the statu
are advertising the fact that Tucum
cari Is waking up and will hold a big
Cowboys' Roundup. This moans that
everybody must put their shoulder to
the wheel and assist in this now ven
ture us it would by rather disappoint
ing to have to buck up or muke a fiz
zle of the affair after it has boon given
such a good boost.
There are no factions when Tucum-
curi is to be advertised and put where
she rightfully belong by entertaining
the surrounding country at a three
days' roundup. The cattlemen hnvo
volunteered their support nnd tho rest
of us will enjoy every thing of inter
est that can be put on tho program by
the committee. Tucumcnri needs a
fair grounds and the start hnd just as
well be made now as ten yeurs from
now when all c;hcr progressive towns
have accomplished what we have now
attempted.
It takes money to pay for entertain
ment. It takes money to advertise.
If you havo something to offer the
people that is worth the price there
is no doubt about their buying it and
if it is us good as you say it is you
have not spent your money in vain.
Tucumcari must come across and do
this proposition up right or it will
be. better to postpone it until next
year. The soliciting committee is
meeting with considerable success and
it now looks like tho Cowboys' Round
up will be a crackerjnek.
BIT BY RATTLESNAKE
J. C. Bnrnctt, father of Mrs. Sum
Dismukes of this city, who Uvea near
San Jon, wufc bit by a rattlesnake last
Monday evening, nnd It was feared for
a time thnt his life was in danger.
Mr. Bnrnctt wns picking up some
maize heads preparatory to feeding
some stock. There were no weeds
or brush near the maize but he reached
down and the snake stuck his fangs
into his hnnd. He could hardly shake
the reptile loose. He said ho thought
his life was doomed so he took his
pocket knife and carved tho snake
open. Ho then buried his wound in
the fresh blood of the snake. He went
to San Jon where the wound was treat
ed by a physician nnd Mr. Dismukes
drove a car after him bringing him to
Tucumcari. He is now passed dan
ger and while it was a clo3o call lie
is glad ii was no wow-.
WHEAT GOES TO SI.30 ON
TUCUMCARI MARKET-ELEVATOR
IS PUSHED RAPIDLY
! Mr. Sal'ey. tho local wheat buyer.
I is making good. The farmers r.ro wul'
I pleased witli the cordial treatment nnd
'the excellent prices he is paying. On
Tuesday and Wednesday he .van pay
ing about tho same that Knnas City
market was offering. lie ii paying
tho sumo thnt Hutchinson la paying
and sometimes a littlo hattor. Whont
took a sudden drop Tuesday but Mr.
Sulloy paid tho price he offered when
asked over tho telephone. He has
car ready for shipment and snys that
the car sold a few dnys ago brought
the top price on the Galveston mnrkct.
This proves tho assertion that Now
Mexico can rni?e whnnt second to no
other stnte.
The building of tho elevator ia be
pushed ns fust us possible nnd when
it is completed Mr. Snlloy will be nblo
to pny more for the wheat because it
will cost him loss to handle it. Farm
ers nro being encournged to sow more
whent now that competition hns been
established on both sides of tho wheat
bolt. Tho acreage this year wns twice
thnt of lust year nnd it is snid tho
norcage next yenr will bo twice that
of this yenr. If ench yenr brings forth
such an increnso Quay county will soon
be a veritable wheat field.
Remember Tucumcari Is paying to
day $1.!10 per bushel nnd will pay more
if the market will afford it when you
bring tho whent to town,
MAY BRING PRISONER HACK
Freeman Allen uccompanied Sheriff
Ward to Amnrillo this week whoro it
wns expected to find a man wanted in
this county for Belling' mortgaged
property. Whilo in Amarillo Mr. Al
len expects to buy a now Overland
auto and will drive it through.
COWBOYS' ROUND-UP
i
