'TTfljR1
SJP.Hi.
'& M
IJPZF
' . x
-PM
;
.y
.j-
KLAMATH COUNTY'S
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
Otfje it ntfttg Iterato
KLAMATH FALLS'
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
elty,nth Year-No. 3,073
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, THURSDAY, AUGUST 17, 1916.
Price Plva CnU
OREGON CAR SHORTAGE IS SERIOUS
WILSON CALLS RAILROAD HEADS TO WASHINGTON
LOCAL BOX COMPANY ;subwarine base
CUADTCirARQAnAV!111118
onxmi vmtu n un i , BE
CONSTRUCTED
i
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
BLAMES ESPEE
Mo iihippcrH. Mr l.lKht ii'iHIril unit i
I Prank Miller nf th commlmdou tuii'il '
lie iiiimliu: fin olllce hkiiIii. and wan' CONFERCRS
eil lo initlio ii hIiiivvIiii:
.Miiliuj'.'T .Mvdiwuii says that If lln
Inn rurti hhoulif ftfi llii iiIkIiI nhlft
OCT ASIDE $500,000
FOn THIS PURPOSE
Short on Klamath Fall Branch.
California Wanti 1,300 More Cart.
oinmlialon 6avo Shortaae I An.
nual Slioitcomlna of Etpee.
...,,. Im Oienon on Southern Pa
jaml tun only leu houin a duy, only
clfic Lines It Nearly 1,000 Caro 50 m)f miM). ,.,. WI)1M l)(1 frlKMli
liy tin' fiimlhorn Pacific,
j "Hence we aiu compelled tci run'
. nlulit ami tiny niiil pile up box nlnok In
'every ii(miI( anil cn ru-r about oiirj
j pii'inliii'H," wild Miuiiik'T .Mfdowiiu. j
Id pin In finiii (In1 public service com-
iiiImhIciii show Unit cxclu.ihe of l!ii'
'Klamath Palls branch, the Miiiilhctti
I'ai'llli' Ih now tihoil Ul'i cam In Ore
gon. Tin ciillimilcil nhoilnKtt on Urn
. .l I. !..!,.. II t.. ,11. . I
iwiiiuiitu rimn nor in nil i inn. ,
In a Idler lo (Jenernl .Mutineer Scott
of Hit' .Southern PiicJIie at San Finn
elifco, In which I lie notions coiiilUluu
of affairs Im net fiiilh, the cotumhotlon
Tlio llwntina I In company ami
many ollar shlppciK nlnnit the Soul!).
era Tiirinc linen In OnKn are faring
n prlnu situation that may amount
loruln liccanre they cannot get freight
tarn In hanilli their ptodiirtn. The rtr
iborUr.o In Oregon alnne tml.ty
amounts In nhont 1,000 cam, and In
California the Miinlngi) lit-brtwcn
1,300 ami 1,100 earn, according In Iho
'Kon I" ",rvu-" ''"'"""Hum. jifHi,4 n ,.,,,, i,,,.,,-,,,!,,-,; .leman.l
In llw sixteen tlnn Ihln liionlh the fP ,Miilpnieiil, anil lepoiln lecclvrd.
Kwttinn llnx cumpituy Iiiih miffereil a rrim, yonr ,.rm,.,ny n,t lent . tliat Hie.
rhorlnKO of about forty caw. Tli cum. ,(,,imflll f(ir ,.,, nils lenliory gir-at-puny
In now calling for ocn earn a v ,.x,.,.,,( llllr nhlllly In supply Iho
niy, ana In leeching two or tltren ,,u,
dally. Two were ieeclvj.il yrnleidiiyj
fcllirniHiii at :i o'clock ami were teailyl
lr. go out lliln morning, The company
nays:
Prom a caicful review of the slum
linn iieie in Oregon we beg to nd!so
that Ihe result of our Investigation din-
U loadhiK cam In only a few hoiirn
after they are trceUcd.
"Our ciistoiiicrn In California no
thrcalcnlitK null hecnuiui wo are not
fumlshlni; thcta with shook ntt fnit
ts wp ulinuld," hald Manager Charles
Mrdownn of the Kwiuina llnx company
IbU mornliiK. "We ate nlmiml nfniM
tnannwi'r the telephone for fear each
call In uniith.fr lelet;ram ftoui a cin!
tuner ci) Iiik for inoie ahooldi.
"It PceiiiH thai whenever Wtt receive
n empty car or two our riiMlnmcr In
Callfnmhi are notlllcd by (hit rallroiul
company. I draw ihlx coiicIiihIoii from
llif fact that very noon after n car lit
uletrackcd neaily oveiy citalomnr
lreit ua aklriK tbtil we load the car
fur him.
"When J, i:. l.iRht f ii, ioitlborn
Pacific rompimy called al our olllce
ywieriluy He ,, , , f 10 rtuum(n
ni read him a letter fiom the piihlln
wnrlre conmilMnInn, In which It wild
to company hml wilitcn the Houthem
acincand noililed that company thai
II Wn"1'1 JP licld icnponhlblo for Itiasns
The uhlppecH or OrCKon aie faclnt;
n verv (ierloim nroblcin. and unlenit
( inoie emit can be bad lo handle the
pi-odiieln of the nlnle tunny lndtiHlilit
mtiHl clone down, lntKi' nnniheni or
J people will be Ihinwn out or emplo-
mcnl and neilmw Iosh will be entailed
I In cottnciiiii-nci' theteof. Sllualeil, an
we are, alinott nolely ilependent upon
jlhe Hotilliein Pnclue. company to ban-
tile the prodiiilH of the nlate, puttie-
nlurly llm wealftn and miuihein pur
llfltm theteof, dltuiHtcr, fallttte and
Imiilfinpicy cunfionl many of our peo
ple uiileHrt HOtni) niolliwl In dovln'.l
whifreby catH can he had for handlliu;
IbU ptodticii of Ibln alale. The iiciikoh
haa now at lived when cam for Mio
flhlpinenl of futlt and raln will bo
luldcil lo llio cars already necoiinary
for the tihliUnent of foiuntry and other
I'todiirtH.
Nowhein In the entire West, no far
,ia we mo able lo learn, In there Hitch :i
comparative car hIkhIiiko an now ex
ist h on your nyiitom In thin ntale.
'.VnrliliiKtnn, Idaho and other ntatei
Ibtiuivbotit I lie Went advlne thin coin-
Nnval Dill Reported to Houte Tomof
low Calls for Equipping Puget Sound
Navy Yardt for Battleship Conttrjc
Hon $6,000,000 to Do Thlt and Same
At Philadelphia, Norfolk, Botsoi-,
Porttmouth, Charleston, New Orleans
I'nl'cd Preid Pervtra
'VSIIIN(;TON. I). C, Auk. 17. The
ll.ial bill will be reported nut of con
ference In the bonne tomorrow, anil
pi nimbly will k" t I'lenldent Wllnon
Sal unlay. '
The conferen from both bounen thin
nfternoon iiKrecd to retain the pro
vlnlon to equip the I'tiRet Sound, Phil
adelphia. Norfolk, IhiHton, I'ortnmouth.
Charlenion ami New Orleiuin navy
yaidn for baltlenhlp connt ruction.
One half million dollars wan appro
priated for a Hiibmarlno and torpedo
bane at the mouth or the Columbia
lllver.
The recoinmendallon for nppoln'
mcnl of a commlnnlort to investigate
the proponed entnlillnbinont of it sec
ond naval academy on tho Pacific
Count wan eliminated.
Pannage of the naval bill will end
the neiiate pail of the ndinlulntrutlon
proKram.
Pity the Candidate tor Congress
A dlioct inquiry rontnlnlnt; three
polulcd qucHtlonn ban junl been .sent
lo every candidate for congreim, both
lepublican and democrat, by Mm.
Prank M. HochhIiik, vice pienldcnt'of
tin- National American Woman Suf
frage Amioclatlon und cliairman of itn
conKrennlonal commlllcc. The qties
itoiiH are as follews:
"Are you in favor of woman suf
fniKc?" "If elected will you vote In coiiKtenn
lo submit to Uie Males a federal
amendment to enfranchise Ihe women
of this country?"
"If appointed on a committee In
v.hoflo jurisdiction nuch an amendment
should fall, will you do nil in your
i? jVM.
wWi&s&
r '&&. , . H
Ciml Iniidl on Piibo
Allies Take Maurepas
and 300 Yards Trenches
t'nlteu- I'rcs Service
I0ND0N. Aim. 17,-In a' flerco
f omilng Inst nlKht on a Ihrno mllo
heDrltiKi, and French co-opernt-"?
Bdvnncpd son ,...i
,..,, iiiniiif; in
the
altq
UiiIImI PreKH Service
IUSUMN, Auk. 17. Tho. Hermann
have recapluied pohIIIoiih went of the
Furcuiix woodn,
South or Miiutipan tho llrltlnb and
French lont heavily In enKKiwettls
litis inotnliifT,
The French have capl tired u portion
of the llrnt lino trenclieH ul Uelloy
Knntorro.
French iiltnckH on UsIichh and niil
Inh iiltnckH lit OvIHem, Pozleren, and
all other ulllcd iihhiuiIIh iiIoiik Ho
Ronuuo Imvo been repulneil.
JliiHiilim nttuelcH at many polnlH have
lismli jilt rtt il
SfW Pronnll tri.l.. mi., r. 't .... ii.i ...,l.. i. ..fiiilitra.t
'' flit (in , '"" '" uerinann uc uennaiiH mm 'i "i" -
fctdn,8 ,,e8,,er,"t''V MoKaln tholr Btiiroobaynn bill In tho Curpalbloii
ir.ounlalnu.
fenihiw n.i .........
th u" u '"iHiiriiiK Miuirepufi. on
-urepiciory road. Advances
ro ninrto,...,! . ,
lBoiiiij. iwoi in initio.
Tn. " Ul wp''lory woods.
liJET n,,fttK "orthweHt of Co-,,f,laHb((inrei..itvr,i
n reimtfcd.
'lli Sli "" "-Vm,nt nrtlllory.
the J?" "ln" ,,,0"" MuuropnH,
1 PwIUods,
HUGHES FAVORS
BUDGET SYSTEM
JAYS BUSINESS LIKE METHODS
SHOULD DE APPLIED TO TARIFF
ADJUSTMENT SAYS CAMPAIGN
'S r-USINESS MEiJ'S STRUGGLE
I'nlted Press Service
I'OHTI.AND, Auk. 17 In nddrenMnR
llm Ad Club yenterday afternoon,
Charles K. HiiRbes called the present
campalBii a bitsluess men's struggle,
and linked I ho support of all business
men.
In duneiw.sInK tho tariff ho urged
IninlneHs like methods, nnd wild ho tn
voied a budget systom.
"No private business In this country
could exist under such organization
as I hut under which the national gov
ernment In conducted." said tho repub
lican nominee.
lie declared the American systom of
Kovernment was like n watch, (ton
ciitelv adjusted, and requiring to be
kept In perfect order. Ho said Hint
only republican mothods can keep na
tional and local affairs up to Htimuniu.
i '&?; yfZ?
w dm '- n
v Kim. '& i
jf W Jm
M ' SmM
c-JJWHUuaijmt-i i-i'uiti.iiiii i f MVm& i JbHHsH
I--? '" WWf.! VSssssIbssssH
i ifiHBKfi Art? xSsy" BBSBSTlai P
V feBBii
aa-i
EMPLOYERS REJECT
EIGHT HOUR OFFER
RAILROAO MEET
IS THIS EVENINS
STRAHORN WILL EXPLAIN HIS
PLANS AND STATE WHAT HE
WILL EXPECT OF THI8 COM
MUNlTY TO GET ROAD
CHAIRMEN 8ILENT A8 THEY GO
, TO CONFERENCE
Believed That Strike MayNot toA
verted Because Railroad' Managers
Refuse to Give Eight Hour Day a
Trial Charge That Proposal for
This Is Political Move to Put Off
Settlement Until After Election.
iKamx.riiitHtBi-f:.
MWS. rBAWK
tr!W?:s3EYrs!''J!?,!K--v!
m na SSSI.NIG
Touting State.
Mr. and Mm. J. H. Burgard, Cl-irk
n.iiiMiid and W. K. Coman of Portland
i..n nt noon today nftor spending Inst
..(.hi in Klamath Tails. They ure on
n lour of the slate. Chirk nurgard
Biadtialed from Ihe University of Ore-
C.on last spring,
Dirklna Berries,
Chris Hamilton und wife are at Iho
i....,i,i..i,rrv. nntoh. beyond Crater
Lake, to pick the dollcloua frulL
power to expedite the passage or such who did not answer the questions to
u measure?" Ha satisfaction,, Mrs. Roessing said
When naked If tho Intention of the t-uch a course would depend entirely
National Association, which has nl- j Oh the action of the convention, which
ways been strictly non-partisan, was. will be held In Atlantic City from Sep-
lo make u fight against candidates 'tcmber t to 10.
EXPECTS TO BUY
KLAMATH
HORSES
C. H. TURNER OF CALDWELL
HORSE AND MULE COMPANY
WILL HOLD AN INSPECTION
AFTER STOCK IS GATHERED
GERMANS DISLIKE
To buy horses nnd mules from Klam
ath county stockmen, C. H. Turner of
Caldwell, Idaho, arrived hero yester
day and will remain until about Sep
tember 1. Mr. Turner is one of tho
ATTITUDE GERARD
ALLEGE THAT AMBASSADOR REC
OMMENDS NO ACTION ON MAIL
MUTILATION UNLESS GERMANY
REMOVES CEN30RSHIP
United Press Service
BERLIN, Aug. 17. Influentlon Ger
man newspapers are attacking United
States Ambassador Gerard on account
jof his alleged attitude, expressed In a
.confidential communication to the
most experienced horso dealers of tho American state department, toward
country, and Is connected with Iho'cicrmnn censorship.
Caldwell Home and Mulo company of I u ,8 nlleged ,nat Ambassador Ger
Caldwell. Idaho, which furnished niorojnni ln reporting the protests of Amor
tban $3,000,000 worth of horses to tho ,cnn correBponijent.a t0 England's mu
allies hint year. j tuatlng and withholding stories on the
This company also has offices ln!war recommended that no action be
Rono nnd San Francisco nnd buy stock ; taken by tho Unted States unless Ger-
ln all parts of tho West. ninny removes her censorship of war
w.. m.. .AU ..lll liAnln i KllU hllfUOU'
wr. iuiiioi "-. - Miows sent to America.
nt once und nbout Septomber 1, Cup-
lain Oeorge Wlnterjmrn of the United ,w H MAS0N MAY BUY
j-ai.. .... ...Ill nmlua tn.lnanoii (llO.
Biaies unuy . . ..- . KLAMATh RECORD SOON
stocK arcumuiuieu.
Silltch Out on Bonds.
Ralph Salls'ch, charged with purloin-
W'h a view ol possibly taklu,;
over tho .publication. Will II. Msjii
in ,. .,( hnlnmrlnn to J. A. McFtlll. has llVttm ll Sliori opuon on iue ou-..-
i..w hL rniennmi on I2G0 bonds, fur- ess and equipment of the Klamth Rec
nlshed by Prank D. Kester. of Poe ord, now published by Catherine
Valley and J. W. Tyrell of Klamath Prehro. Mr. Mason's option expires at
Falls He was boutfd over to, the noon next Wednesday; at that ttme
grand jury by Justice Oowen. waiving he will say whether no not he shall
a preliminary hearing. mvkuuw "" " m .-..
Robert E. Strahorn. builder of the. United Press Sernea
proposed Bend to Klamath Falls rall- WASHINGTON, D. C, An IT.
roa'd, will be the principal speaker at , President Woodrow Wilson . at , noon
the big railroad meeting tonight n ( today telegrapbed to tne pwawenu ot
Houston's opera bouse. Other speak- all lallroad systems ln the United
era will be called upon. Dr. E. D. John- Sates, asking them to cohw to Wash
son will preside. - ', Ington Immediately. "In nts telegram
About thirty local busmese-memnefhesaw "? . .
with Mr. Strahorn yesterday afternoon "The discussion ,ot the strike sltua
to hear what he will ask of this com- tion has reached .the point where U it
munlty toward getting the proposed highly desirable to confer with you."
railroad. After he had explained xfbat j This action ol I President- Wilson fol
he expected and what he would do. a lows the disinclination of the railroad
vote of confidence in Mr. Strahorn and '. managers who 'conferred with the prea-
approval of his plan was given.
A large attendance ts expected
the meeting this evening.
at
STABBED GREEK
IS RECOVERING
Gus Lampropulos, the Greek who
was stabbed during a fight with George
Peter, a Turk, at the Algoma logging
camp recently, is not lna serious con
dition, and will recover. He suffered
l.iscerations in the breast and right
hip.
Peter fled soon after the cutting
affair, and has not been seen since, al
though Deputy Sheriff Lloyd Low went
to Algoma to try and find him.
It appears that Peter drew a knife
only after Lampropulos and two or
three other Greeks bad attacked him.
ldent yesterday to grant an eight hour
day, even for a trial.
This morning President Wilton and
Federal Mediator Chambers asked the
railroad brotherhoods' executives how
they understood the government's pro
posal for settlement? An answer has
not been received this afternoon.
Mediator Chambers Is furnishing the
president with additional data regard
ing the effect of an eight hour day on
the railroad revenues. He is securing
Qata from both sides regarding work
ing conditions and revenues.
The district chairmen of the broth
erhoods were serious' and silent when
they went this afternoon to confer
with President Wilson. Some of them
indicated that a strike may be averted.
It is believed. that President Wil
son's proposal for settlement Is an
agreement between the railroads and
brotherhoods for an eight hour had to
become effective Immediately, and a
derision on pay for overtime held in
Continued on Paga 4
Baseball Train to Leave
Depot 8 O'Clock Sunday
. .
Sam Jolly, catcher for the Duns-
Lmulr team, and who played a few
games with Klamath Falls this season,
has been hired to sit on the Klamath
Falls bench next Sunday when the
local team nlays Weed for the cham
pionship of Northern California and
Southern Oregon. Jolly will be ready
to play any place needed, except as
pitcher, but if called upon probably
will take Jimmy Clarke's place behind
the bat, permitting Clarke to play in
the infield or outfield.
The train carrying the local fans to
the game will leave the Klamath Falls
depot Sunday morning at 8 o'clock,
and wil consist of two or three extra
coaches attached to the regular train.
The regular train, which is due here at
7.45 in the evening, will be held at
Weed Sunday afternoon until the ball
game is over, to permit all Klamath
Falls people to return on it. It is now
ulated to leave Weed at 5;,45. which
aa
is expected to be at least forty-five.
minutes after the game Is over. ,
'irklti la thn nri-nTuroRinnt that Local
Agent Brown of the Southern Pacific
is trying 19 mane, an ana wuw v
San Francisco and expects to be able.
tn An Ma TWeiiltMamincAmant Willi
oe made in the HWald.as soon a!
. 1 n 1- l-JJ',. lk malm
Agent iirown in muui-i n "
office. f. . 'J
The game will be called at J:Sjt
sharp, and should be playeaVin twt
hours and fifteen minutes, or at 'least
not more than two and a bait hours, ft
Posters from Weed advertising the -
game have been received here. They
declare that the game "will be "th
hottest battle of the season." TbeU
line-up of the Weed team aa given ln
the posters Is; ' "f .
Teruck and Anthony, pltohorst,NU
son and, Morgan, catchers CMwfe )
first; Kaer. V$m&
cowan, intra, -urjrww, i-v,(Minwt.-s .,,'
ter tsneeny, rui, vmmr, wt4..tjrfe ,
, J' . V
u
l
.?-"
., ..rf'"" .
