1:
1
r ' ( ' -v.,-.' ."
7!i . V- W.
v. v r aa.
C
MAiLSr
from San Francisco "
WUhelmlnn, Aug. 20.
For r Fra nc I see
Wrtlne, Aug. 29.
From Vancouver;
. Niagara, EcpL .
For Vancouver:
llakura. Sept 15.
Evening Bulletin. Est 1882, No. 665
'.'Hawaiian Star, Vol. XXIV, No. 7607
AC" t ESIEB
fa. R. C. Prichard of India Re
" latcs Hcrrific Talcs of
. Liens, Tigers, etal.,
nias;I:ie awaking from pleasant
.' dreams. In -the dead of nlgbt, with
j'trjr bare am rammed about a foot
down a ir.our.taln Jion's throat; fancy
phar;,t frr.mino: teeth .piercing your
.kin; Eurp. a this JunRle giant start
" c-d tack vii to rear gate to his for
est hr.-:r.to rt!U retaining in his mcMith
your- t ' 1 crr-i wl": jcti fragging
at t! t I c r
,:t a r.xm-r.t, t:.!.? H u dream!
rictr.re vfr.cn f-:zV.?.z in terpr;
kcrvants ttirr.r.:--; tj Lei;)!ess fright,
and you e'.:U lumrlng towards the
ir.:.;bty no-arch's timber home, with
av;-'cntly ro escape from a living
decth. "Eaten alive" the . papers
would ray .. ' v -.
' If you csn ccr.celve p II this, and still
Iter.cve it; if yen can lp;rebend with
otit'derldinp:' then you may have some
Idea cf the hair raising tales of ad
venture related, ruder questioning, by
13. R. S. Prilchard, tea grower, late
of Khari Katla. Asnam, India, and at
present. a tourist visitor here with
Mrs. Trkhard in a cozy cottage at
the Seaside hotel. : ' ' : --.
The Englishman' doe?nt .tell the
tr.Ie voluntarily; his friends encourage
him. But onco 'under steam, ; full
sreed nhead, he unfolds' a store of
bengal heart-thrillers that would make
ghost yarns cf the tauntcd-house va
riety look Eiek. " .
C;rry Hanjs Cn
.'Cut getting h3ck to the first one:
Did the monster devour' his victim or
was the man torn limb from limb and
left to lie on the rocks as the ferocious
beast escared to Impenetrable fast
nesses, emitting ; his bellows the.
waile? - Net so. ilia captive In arms,
or arm, as it were, was one Berry,
and Berry was an Irishman, of in
drmltatle nerve He "hung cn" to
tlie end. 7
It was 'this, way: ' The Assam man
ifans are hot in summer. But there's
no ice or electric fans; To replace
the" latter huro hrceze-Etirrers aro
'hung from ceilings and agitated to
atd fro by a rcpe, running ovr a
pulley end throi:?.h a hole in the wall
to a coolie half dozing on a stool out
side, automatically jerking the rope.
One day caid coclie dozed too ex
.te'nsiveiy. ., Suddenly the lulling air
ccmmcticn ceased and the inmates
rnshed out to learn tho cause. They
didn't The coolie was gone, that was
all. And te never came back,- Mys
tery there "was with no solution.
The next day the same Incident oc
curred. The following night a guard
was stationed near the fan-man to
make a report -on such curious act
ions. Had they remained awake, as
they should, the "arm-in-the-mouth"
- story probably rrvcr would have been
told. But the nfeht was warm, and
tlrry slumbered '. ' - :
Suddenly they 'were brought horri
fied to their feet by screams of pain,
intersiersed with "cuss" words. Their
eyes luilTcd out at an immense lion,
on his way to the jungle, dragging
Berry ia his wake. . The fanner had
escaped, this time. :: ; "
One fell over in a dead faint at
the .sight, another, dropped prostrate;
the third survived and saved the day.
He grasped a rifle of large lore.
placed it at the big beast's bead, and
blew his brains out.
Uvea to Tell Tale. - ' ''
Tunctured a few times but other
wise solid the arf was regained by
thro still conscious Irishman, who lived
until a few years ago to spin the
yarn: He' showed the-teeth marks as
Exhibit A, for conclusive evidence.
Here's another: -
Papa and mama and the Kids are
' jogging heme at 4sk over an Assam
road in a pony cart. -A monstrous
leopard sneaks out from hiding; saps
tr horse a terriHc, stunning jolt on
Z ie zzi makes off . with his
" .r i r i r i i -r ': - f v:rV m r ' ' i v r r 1 f n f l-1 i x v x - f N .
- . . 5 , j . -. 1 ' . . . .'- 1 j 1 '
:; , : . ' ; j J 1 1 1 i j V 1 J -LJ L j 1 J Li U L-J VV-
TELLS IVEf JTUHES
catch while pater, mater, et al, ' do
part . hurrjedly and unceremoniously
over the rear seaC . iatcr they re
cover the cart and harness.
And again: . . ' ,'".'-'.":
' It was Christmas day. A young
Englishman was riding to a yule-tide
feast, cr away from It, It matters not
which, on horse-back, when a leopard
intercepted him. The spirit of giving
entered the rider's , heart, -; suddenly
and surely.' ' lie donated the ' horse
freely, nor did he wait for thanks.
The. curious . .part. of, this" storyjbr that
the same" thing happened the' follow
ing year, the same day at practically
the identical sixt. - It Is said the Eng
lishman "has since joined the Society
for the Prevention of Useless Giving.
Here's One More V
'.Just one more: " : -. "''':.'"
Pritchard tells ot a dozen , fine
heifers slaughtered but untouched, one
Christmas day. He believes they were
killed In sport by a female tigress
who took along her young to teach
them the art of meat-getting. There,
was a big barbecue for the coolies
that week. . ;.-'.
Prichard has been in Assam for
about 20 years as a tea grower. He
Is manager of a tea plantation there
for the Tyroon Tea Company, LtdH of
Calcutta, He and Mrs. Prichard have
recently toured Japan and are on their
way to Australia. . v v '.'
Telling a newspaper man he - had
nothing to say, Prichard talked inter
estingly rfor two hours and. still be
moaned the fact that his was a dry
and unexciting existence. Here are a
few pointed paragraphs, snatched at
random; from his talk: f ?!
i Ford automobiles ' predominate in
India. : ' ' "
They cost about $1000. when finally
delivered , . :
Assam roads are miserable, almost
as bad as Ralakaua avenue. - ' .
Game is plentiful,. but hunting la
scarce.
The men haven t time, they
say. " ' ' .'
; Elephants are caught only by the
government, then they are auctioned.
Assam is in northeast India; 600
miles from Calcutta , the nearest city;
on the Eramah-Pootra river and boasts
the greatest rainfall on earth, 600
inches annually. ! -7.
Many Have Gone to War
Most of the assistant . plantation
managers have gone to war as offi
cers in the Indian army. Thousands
of Hindoos are at the front
India .raise-iv far more tea than
China; also a better grade. Not. long
ago it was Just the other way around.
It takes two pounds of coal to make
a pound pf tea one pound for power
and the other lor heat.
The drying machineryjs .inadequate
and defective. There is a crying need
for an enterprising young American
with inventive. disposition to overhaul
all the equipment;- . "; '-':;
THEFT OF ALUMINUM PIPE
CHARGE AGAINST KOREAN
' Chun Sur, a" Korean, was arrested
rn Monday ; by Arthur McDuf f ie, de
tective chief, on a charge of cutting
up and stealing Sunday night from the
Hawaii Preserving Company cannery
in Iwilel considerable valuable alu
minum piping made especially expen
sive since the war. Tne theft brought
Snr a penalty of one year in prison
when arraigned in police court yester
day afternoon. The loot was discover
ed in possession of the Honolulu Junk
Company, which had purchased it, so
the - police . say, -for . a few cents a
pound. . '". ' ' ' : ' - " ." ' ''
British Ambassador Spring-Rice '..has
notified the state department of ' &ne
release by Great Britain of several
consignments of captured securities.
The naval coljier Neptune Is prepar
ing to sail for Haitien and Mexican
waters with the largest cargo ever
carried by a naval collier. : j
HONOLULU, TEBBITOB Y OF HAWAII, TUESDAY,
' . : . ; , - - - . . .... -- - - - . - ,
lsJe?ded
WASHINGTON, D.
.400,000 employes involved, hasv been ordered for Labor Day, Monday, Sep
temDer 4, at 7 o'clock in the mornirig.'; ' ;:V;V;,5V ;;L W-'':-V-iir
1 The linion or brotherhood leaders ordered the strike today and simultan
eously gave out a statement asserting tnat only, a ; favorable settlement of
their demands, by the railroads, can change the order. The order is final
unless - countermanded,
Negotiations between the railroads and the brotherhoods, which have
been carried on for days through President Wilson,4 have been severed, t The
Brotherhood leaders say they win not renewed unless their demands are
gr;anted.'X;Jv
V A statement given out early this afternoon; by the committee of - eight
representmg the railroad executives denies that - the judgment of the public
and the sentiment of society favors the eight-hour day, as the men demand,
and asserts that arbitration is the only proper way for settlement of the con
troversy. ' . v- f,;
This statement follows the attitude maintained by the railroads from the
beginning of the dispute. 1 ' '
V" The suggestion made
prmciple of the eight-hour day, but po stpomng its gomg mto effect for a year,
pending investigation by an authorized commission, has been rejected by
the. railroad executives. ' " V'i-V;-
The action of the executives with the strike order to the - employes, has
left the president no alternative except tliat of ping to Congress for a 'final
effort.; . iy.--. :L.-'. " ''-,-. ' fuSi':::' ,:-'''-;i'
? The senate this morning adopted a resolution in joint session . that it
would hear the president
the same. course. -: H
FILIPINOS CAN STAY :
IN NATIONAL GUARD
- BY NATURALIZATION
Filipinos living in the Territory of
Hawaii may. enlist in -the National
Guard of Hawaii if they take out citi
zenship papers first, says a recent de
cision - of the judge advocate-general
Of the United States army. . -v;'
"If, as now appears to be the case,
Filipinos are being admitted to citi
zenship by the' courts," says the de
cision in part, "the question is deter
mined in their favor and they may
qualify as respects' citizenship, for
membership In1 the National Guard."
The opinion means, that Filipinos
now in the guard who have not al
ready taken out first-papers in citi
zenship must do so in order to remain
militiamen. There are now between
2500 and . 3000 Filipinos in the Na
tional Guard of Hawaii. - .,' -' '
The decision of Judge demons of
this city and the supreme court - of
the District of Columbia, both holding
that the naturalization laws authorize
the naturalization ,xf Filipinos, had ait
important bearing on the outcome.
SUBSIDIES FOR SHIP r
LINES THROUGH CANAL
T PROPOSED IN JAPAN
(Spcil fcMe to nvii Hoebl) ; "
TOKIO, Japan7 Aug. 2S. The Jap
anese government is --encouraging the
opening of steamer line's to New York
through the Panama canal. - A1 bill or
subsidies for scch steamship line will
be presented at'the coming session of
the Diet It is reported today that
Nippon Ynserr Kalsha wfll- nra "six
large steamers in sue sea route if
the government gives subsidies to
that company. - ."."':
..:"':. -";
(Aasocikttd Press Sertir by Federal "Wlrelewt
C, Aug. 29.-The national railroad strilce, with
by President Wilson for
this afternoon, and the house is preparing to take
- ' V v:. -' -K'.--'''
Ught Veight
I
rt
7S
Family scales varying, to the sell
er's advantage, as much as a pound
were discovered by Wallace J. Lillis
in a semi-annual , inspection just fin
ished of weights . and measures on
Oahu. ,. : - :v - '- :- ;.V--:J '-'C'--.'-"-
' Generally, Lillis found the island
stales fairly accurate and he credits
most inaccuracies more to defective
mechanism than to wilful cheating.
; One scale confiscated - by: Wilis i.n
dicates two pounds on Its. dial when
a one-pound weight "is- placed upon
it. . -,;;; -;v4;;-:; :'::;': -;:i:
"You can Imagine how, fast a mer
chant would, get rich selling by ; the
pound on that one," laughed Lillis.
; The weights and measures inspect
or says that the cheaper, scales such
as this one often lose, tension in the
ccntrolling spring and cannot hold
np to the marks Intended. '.
CH0LRA SPREADS MS
JAPAN; 20 DISTRICTS
REPORT DREAD DISEASE
r. '- 'j. '.-..'. ' 1 ..''-.'.-'.: - , .;' :
. (Special Cable to Nippp JijI.)
TOKIO, : Japan. Aug. 28. Cholera
has spread throughout ;2Q prefectures
in Japan, and new. cases are reported
in Tokio. Osaka ; and i Kyoto.. The
cholera district at : present . covers
nearly half the ' territory of the em
pire and many deaths ha v beeff re
ported to the health authorities. Every
effort Is beins made to prevent .the
spread of the disease. C
Uncommori
Kepo
oho
:::--n W Mil.
: ' '
AtJGUST 29, 191G.
mtfldym Committee
a proposal including the
k w'- a :
BIG SHELL ORDER IS
PLACED WITH UNITED
STATES, $34,000,000
NEW YORK, N. Y. Contracts call
ing for 500,000 tons of shell steel and
valued at $34,000,000 were closed re
cently between representatives of the
Allies anu the United Stales . Steel
Corporation, acting with several large
independent companies, v
This business is the largest steel
contract placed in this country since
the war began. ", - -.:..-'
The order includes semi-finished
(billets)..; rounds and forgings and de
livery Is to be completed by the end
of Juljf. 1917. The prices range from
$40 to $90 a ton, depending on the
character of the steel, making an aver
age price per ton of $67.50. The ma
terial will ; be used abroad in the
manufacture of high explosfve sheila.
CONSTANTI NE OPERATED ON
.LONDON; Eng., Aug. 29. King
Constantine 6f Greece has undergone
a slight surgical operation, according
to a despatch ; from Renter's corres
pondent at Athens.
; ; a 1 :
CANE IN IMPERIAL VALLE
SAN FRANCISCO, Cal. The Call
fcrnia Development Board reports
that experiments wfll be made in the
Imperial valley thi fail to g;ther &n
thonti data . nnnn L'thn : rommRrrlal
adaptability of sugar cane lA that sec-t " &-ux cw t.'rrwii riatm
tion, r Work already .done by the Uni- , TOKIO. Japan, Aeg. , 2S. LleuL
versity of Arizona on similar" soli and Gen. G. Shiba, co'mmander fa chief of
under similar climatic conditions inj the I2th Division, has ordered -a strict
dicates that this may become a prof-1 investigation of the explosion of the
i table Industry. ' Experiments with sti-1 powder magazine at the fortress of
gar, beets will also" be conducted, and I IJafcAiu which , took place early this
If it fs.fcund that they can be' raised morning;." LIeht.-Gen. K. SnrgemE of
successfully Inducements will be the Bakan fortress, with Stiff Officer
made for the establishment of a com j Maj. Ichiki and Capt Kawa!:ani are
blnation cane and beet' sugar plant appointed a board cf inve-t': '.': n.
v LOCAL ANDGENERAL
A girl was born to Mr, and Mrs. E.
P. Wlnant Monday at
23C1 East Manoa road.
their home.
Public hearing on the - Beretania
street improvement project will be
held by the snpenri3ors tonight.
Jamea Davis, supervising" public
school principal, has returned to his
desk in the department of public in
struction after an extended vacation.
. Mrs. Emma Isakuina has filed: in
federal ! court bor answer to the gov
ernment's ; petition for condemnation
of the Irwin site.. She' values her al
leged claim at tlOCO. ;; ;
':'" . : j who
;nry C. I piii;
JJlSDOSlUOn OI me CS Uk cur i
3.eJUannMstm .i.Mh?i?A-thJlS
fantry,: was to emmade In the "federal
court yesterday. Bell Is charged with
the commission of a statutory offense.
Denying all of the allegations, Teo
dora Ocanjpo haa filed in circuit court
her- answer - to the suit for divorce
brought against her by Alfred F.
Ocampo, member of the city detective
force. ; f - :"::
- The ' advertising committee of the
Chamber .of Commerce sanctioned the
horse racing program as an advertis
ine mediumLand declined to sanction
the swimming meet program on thoj
ground that the former la the oettcr
advertising medium. . - v ;
An application for a passport has
been filed in the federal court by
Edric Watson Vredenburg of Ka
muela, Hawaii, who Intends to travel
in Russia, and Japan for pleasure. He
ail! leave Honolulu In the Tenyo
Ufaru on September .1. : -
Examinations for stenographers and
typewriters win be held at the cus
tom house, Honolulu, on October 11,
under the direction of the United
States civil serVice commission. Boin
men and women Will be admitted to
the examination, applicants to be more
tfcan 18 years old.
AMrs. Mary Asam. wife, cf Robert
Asam or the Consolidated Soda Water
Works Company, died at the mater
nity home on '--, Monday. The body
has been removed to Silva's undertak
ing parlors and the funeral will be
Wednesday. Burial will be In tbe
Catholic cemetery jn King street.
MASS OF EVIDENCE IS V
DISPLAYED TO JUDGES -;
IN ANCIEITT LAW CASE
About 2000 exhibits, neatly arranged
In 17 containers; three huge charts
of building plans, two . other charts
cn which are tacked paper filled with
masses of figures and a transcript of
a few thousand pages, about three
fourths , of a foot things all ' these
things were arrayed before the jus
tices of the supreme court Monday for
argument on the case of the Stewart
Construction Company, of . New York
against Col. Zv S. Spalding of Kauai,
an action for 'debt appealed from a
Judgment, in Circuit Judge; Whitney's
court. . ; :' ' : j ..
- in 1303-10 Col. Spalding had erected
a building in Portland, Ore the Stew
art Company doing the work. - Abo;it
a year aso the company brought suit
against Spalding for the collection of
en alleged debt- The Jury found for
the plaintiff, the final judgment being
for the son?, of about $58,000.,. Spald
ing appealed. V -
ORDER INVESTIGATION i
OF MAGAZINE EXPLOSION
r it ' w
PRICE FIVE.CENT3.
WE PASSES
ISHILOSIQ
Onco more an enterprising business
man has barf all his plans nipped in
the bud becauje cf failure "to comply
with some of the minor provisions of
awy aeccramg w.unvn.v.uuMw?.
who- say 3 it .w;;s
fxl-J to hira by. Sum
Ilawa.i's sneritf.
de. siory goes. -
Kcna chlckena nave
a' reputation
that brings high prices for tliern In
the Honolulu market. 'An eatcrrm
ing businessman cf Hilo dhcovered
this and cast about for a way to get
seme ot the chickens. -If be bought,
them and sold them again the profit .
wculd be small too email for an am
bitious mam. Again, ordinary means
Of gathering them by night had an
element of risk that did not appeal to
the conservative instincts 01 tne nu
Ite. ' - ; ; . - ; . ' -. ! '
So this Is the way he got hU chick
ens: . . - --' ' - ' ': . '
He boucht a small moving picture
outfit and -a liberal supply of hand
bill!:. . He -went out into the country
districts of Kona and by judicious uso
of passes to his show obtained the'
use of a hall, a barn or an empty
store in every village he. visited. Vis
iting every farmhouse, in the neigh
borhood of hi3 stops he dialated on
the amusement and Instruction to be
gained by a visit to his show, mean
while keeping an .eye opt for, chick
ens. If a man had a plentiful supply
of well fed fowl and was not dispos
ed to spend hard-earned cash-to take
hi3 family to the picture show, . free -tickets
were presented to hlmt ,
A boy operated the machine at
night. The owner went aorcaa wun a .
horse and rig and, gathered up the
fowls he had market during the day.
r?.tinsf them and dc'.Ivnng tbcm at t
He had a tidy little Income for a
few weeks. .. , ' ' t
He was cet tins: his work fairly well
systematized when the law, always
. 1 T f V.ft. ' 1 An
uiccJitDR men wiui.new putus ui uu
lng business, stepped in. In the person
cf Sheriff Pnar- . -
Now there are not so many Kona1
h tr-rart t pnmfno1' fnfn fit. - TTnnrdnllr
market. - ; v - '."'; . 1";.
BELATED PURCHASE
OF TWO NEW DRESSES"
BRINGS FORGIVENESS
The tlmel arrival cf two new
Jfeowns defeated the prosecution. 13 i
lice court Monday morning In the
case of Kwal Fun. charged with non
support, 1 according .to ; Attorney
Chsrles F. Chlllmgworth. ' . : .. " . '
Many ways have been , tried , to;
thwart the officers of Juds-e lonsar
rat's domain but the pirscntatic-T rt
dresses to sooth an irate spouse and
wreak havc 'on the prosecution by
way of the ; complaining witness 13
the latest, they say.
Saturday the wifo. declared she was
half dressed, nearly starved and gei;
erally ill-treated by her husband; this
morning." on the witness stand she.
sang an. en tlrely different song. II &
bought rice and meat and potatoes,
she said, and lots cf clothing, even
an occasional bottle of port wine.
. The witness smiled at the prosreu
tiou's discomfiture. She was arrj ed
in a new gown. . i
nhere did you get - that dresr
Chillingworth demanded. '
My husband gave, it to ne." "
"When did. it arrive?" -. ;' . '" .
. "Yesterday. Another one, too," :':.3
boosted. , ... . ;. . . . .
' "I thought so. You win," C .!-Iirsgworth.-
: !
J"u' ti rrr. t cr' " 1
