THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair, continuing cool to-day; to-morrow
fair, light westerly winds.
Hlgheit temperature yetterday, 73; lowest, 55.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 10.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 364.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, AUGUST 29, 1916. CopyricnMMO, by the Sun Printing and PubtlMng A,oclatlon.
ONE CENT
In Greater Now Terk,
Jersey Clly d Newark.
Klsewhere
TWO CENTS.
UNIONS REFUSE TO POSTPONE R. R. STRIKE;
WILSON DECIDES TO ADDRESS CONGRESS;
PLEADS WITH SENATORS FOR NEW LAWS
OYSTER BAY CITIZENS REBEL
AT QUARANTINE AS BARBARIC
They Take Control of Town Board Meeting and
Denounce Isolation of Children as Mere
Suspects Rockefeller Criticised.
RUMANIANS, IN WAR,
FIGHTING ADSTRIANS
INVADE HUNGARY;
IN TRANSYLVANIA;
AIMING FOR TWO BIG CITIES AT BORDER
Walkout of 100.000 Broth
erhood 3I(m Ordered or
7 A. 31. on September k
ST0K3IY SESSION IX
THE WHITE HOUSE;
President to Speak to Joint
Session To-day or To
morrow. SENATORS IX ACCORD
OX REMEDIAL BILLS
Legalizing of 8 Hour Day
and Adoption of Cana
dian Plan Favored.
Washington, Auk. 2S. To-night
Prcldent Wilson's plans for a Bcttlo
ment of the railroad controversy were
thrown In the air, nnd the threat of a
strike became more Imminent when the
railroad brotherhood representatives
flatly refused to postpone the date it
the order calling the men out at 7
A. SI. on September I. The President
summoned them to the White House
and, having received their word, tele
phoned to the railroad executives.
The railroad presidents held a nu-el-kj(
At once and after It was'over many
of them prepared to leave Washington,
to as to tw In their ofllces when the.
strike began. The outlook seemed
darker than at any other time since
the strike situation arose. The seri
ousness of It consisted chiefly in the
fact that the railroad employees ore
not at heart In favor of the remedial
legislation proposed by the 1 "resident.
I'm I il rut Shifts Banlru.
President Wilson earlier In the day
rid shifted the burden of national Indus
trial disaster from the White House to
th Capitol. In cnnfcrer.ee of two and
half hours with the Democratic steer
lug committee of the Senate he presented
a legislative plan uion which he bases
his hnpo jf staving o(t the threatened
nalkout of 400.000 men,
The railroad executives, through their
tommlttee of eight. In a stormy meeting
at the White Mouse dellveied u verbal
notice In the nature of nu ultimutum
that they would not yield the eight hour
djy unless It Is decreed by an arbitral
tribunal.
The railroad employees have declared
thflr defiance by Issuing a strike order
to become effective on September 4 ut
" A. M. Tho President himself re
iterated his determination to stand by
the demand for an eight hour day.
in the face of this impasse the Presi
dent laid before the majority leaders
of the .Senate his proposal for prevent
In? the catastrophe of n general strike
At the same time he announced that he
unuld appear before Congress, nsxem,
MM in Joint session, to-morrow of
Wednesday to urge the adoption of hb
I'cWatlvK programme. He was at
frk late to-night on his message.
Kite Tentative Ilrmrdlal Measures.
Tills programme includes the follow
ing measures:
A bl'l establishing a legal elcht
tour day for lulior on trains engaged
In Interstate commerce.
A bill providing for the adoption of
the Canadian plan of conciliation, but
laving no compulsory arbitration fea
ture. This measure Is to provide that
a strike shall not lie enforced for a
fertaln period, during which the In
tubate Commerce Commission may
Investigate and recommend a plan of
i"!enient.
A bill Increasing the Interstate Com
Bier " Commission from seven to nine
me mix rs.
A bill empowering the Government
It take ver the running of the rail
road in the event of a strike.
A re-olutlon Instructing the Inter
'Htc Commerce Commission to con-
il'r wages us a basis for fixing i
night rates.
The plan proposed by the President has
rot been worked out In detail and may
Iwiinle other minor matters. After henr
ln It the members of the Democratic
"eerlng committee expressed the opinion
thai Hie programme could be put through
'"njresH In two weeks from the time
" k.is taken up. Other Senators said a
oiK'r time would be required.
""I"" to Unit Strike Order MO Ilay.
The President gave the committee to
tiMlcrst.unl that If this could be done the
trlk -jnler Issued for September 4 by
the br'iierhoods could be postponed for
"iiny days,
The thie.u of a strike, which already
'eemei perilously near, was brought al
"' to the point of actuality to-day. It
"ran, i, known that the 6t0 brotherhood
"Wei-ati, most of whom left Washing
ton i.i.i night or this morning, carrle,d
l'h them Instructions to the local chair
men to eall a strike on September i.
The order to this effect Is as follows :
"Aug, 14. 1910,
Jo .411 ;,oki CHfidnien, Members einrt
Othrrn Kmployrtt in f'oasra of .Serf
f'c It'jmtentnt Ij'j the II. of I,, A.',,
" "t I,. F. and K O. II. C. rim!
." " .' r.
"Him anii Hkotiikrh; This Is to advise
"U Out the vote of the employees In
"on an, engine service on the tiglit
u ,i7v , .. ' u , . t ; Will be permitted to depart on condition
i 'lay ninl time and one-half time fori ,, ,,.,.... nf ,
"lenime pioiKisithm was overwhelmingly
i'i f.i oi- (,f strike,
.No".m liMnndimr thlH jioiir represen
lifs iiu. iji,,,, wiithle to effect a satis
M'lui sittlenient, ami a strike Under
t laws of the resKctlve oriranlzatlons
k Continued 0n i'ourffc Pagt.
RARE CHINESE ART !
COLLECTION STOLEN
Gems Worth 950,000 Are
Sought by Police for
Month.
The police have been exerilnir ilieni
selves to the fullest extent for a month
In searching for a valuable collection of
Chinese objects of art which were stolen!
on July :u last In this city from a per-1
on whose name the police refuse to di
vulge. !
The strictest secrecy has been main
tained In the search, but all pawnbrokers
and dealers In antiques and art objects
have been supplied with a complete Us: '
vi me onjects, wnn orders to examine
their property to see If any of the nrt
objects described have come Into their
possession since the time of the robbery.
Although the exact alu of the col
lection cannot be determined It Is esti
mated nt $50,000. Pawnbrokers nnd
dealers arc ordered to detain any one
offering any of the described articles to
them and communicate Immediately with
Police, Headquarters.
Whatever progress the detectives of
the force have made In following up
clues obtained nt the actual scene of the
robbery. It Is not likely that any forward
steps will be made thrnugn the notifica
tion of the dealers and pawnbrokers, as
thieves sufficiently Intelligent to appreci
ate the value of the collection undoubt
edly would lme nminged for It dis
posal Immediately through some "fence,"
probably In some other city.
-Most of the articles described to the
police are Jade, though china and amber
pieces are Included In the collection.
Most of the pleceet are of the periods of
the finest workmanship of the Chinese
artisan". Th periods Include the Kang
1 1st. the Chlen Hung and the Ming
dynasty.
Among the pieces arc ttie followitw:
Pure white Jade nip and tray, cup sus
taining handles and of high polHh. the
tray with artistically carved decoration,
with teakwood stand.
Yellow ground hexagonal shaped vase
with raised decorations of 100 antiques.
j Chlen Hung period.
wane He chino vase, me lexiy or qunr
terfoll outline, the foot Is elongated and
expanded Into huge, bulbous shoulders
which converge In n short, round neck,
with thickened lips curiously glazed In a
soft cream white. cracked glass which l
cut by lines of light brown Into Irregular
shaped lints In the semblance, of a fence
built by boulders. The height of this
pier s nine and a quarter Inches.
There are He era I snuft bottles, orna
ments, vases, and tiny exquisitely carved
statue In the collection.
ROOT UKGES REFERENDUM.
Want llnr Assnelntlnn Members to
I'ns on All lurstloiis.
Ciiioaoo, Aug. 2. Close cooperation
among mcmbeis of State and local bar
associations and the American liar As
sociation was limed by Ellhu Hoot of
?sew York, president of the association,
to-day at a conference preliminary to
the American Har Association conven
tion here Wednesday.
Mr. Hoot (ilcaded for greater democ
racy among members of the bar associa
tions, nnd Introduced a resolution pro
viding for frequent leferenduins to mem
bers of Important questions affecting the
substance and administration of laws.
Six sulddl.try organizations! of the
American Par Association will open their
sessions to-morrow. Mr. Hoot and Will
iam Howard Taft, who will be active at
the bar association convention, arc ex
pcted to attend sessions of the sub
tddlary organizations.
SCHOOLBOY HEIR MISSING.
Clifford 1'n ton of .Northeast Ir,
,. V.. Disappeared Julie lt.t.
Greenwich, Conn., Aug. IS. Clifford
Payton of Northcastle, N. V.. grandson
of Lieut. Ingersoll Knowiton of Armonk.
N. Y who served with FVrragut In
Mobile Hay, has been missing for moro
than two months. With his sister
Hannah he Is the prospective heir to an
estate valued at ISOO.OOn.
On June "3 Payton completed a term
at the Connecticut Preparatory Institute
at Windsor, Conn., where he was study
ing to enter Yale. He left at noon on
that day for Armonk, where he was to
pass the summer on his grandfather's
farm. It Is known that he got as far as
Port Chester with other schoolboys, but
there Is no further trace of him.
He Is M feet 10 inches tall, weighs
13u pounds, and has light hair, a ruddy
faco and brown eyes. His sister Is a
student nt Drew Seminary, Mount Car
mel, N. Y.
RICHARD CROKER COMING BACK
lletlrrn Temporarily From Tnrf to
Attend to III F.yei.
IsiNtMiN, Aug, 28. Dublin correspon
dents report that Kit-hard Croker. for
merly leader of Tammany Hall, Is re
tiring from the turf temporarily and Is
going to the United States on account of
the Lomlltlon of his cjes. which require
expert attention, Mr, Croker Is selling
ill his horses In training but Is retaining
his sires and brood inures.
Mr. Croker won his latest race on Sat
urday, when Hanshee, starting nt 20 to
1, captured the Phienlx plate, worth
Cl.riOo, Jioth Mr. Croker and his wife
backed Haimhee, which he bought re
cently for 500.
AMERICAN SHIPS RELEASED.
Hut (Miner. Most (ilvr llnniU for
".rntrnl" Delivery of Cargoes.
London, Aug, 2S. The American
fishing schooners Muxlue lllllott and
Lizzie fJrlflln, taken last weelc Py u
Hrltlsh patrol boat Into Lerwick, Shet
land Islands, having been seized whllo
fishing off the coast of Iceland, to-day
were ordered ri leased. The schooners
that tho owners In Norwuy nf the
rnrtioes of fish bIvo bonds amounting to
double their valuo to Insure their ar
rival at a NorweKlan pott.
On Auitust 1M Inquiries wero made of
Hie Hrltlsh Oovemment by Itobcrt I'.
Kkinuer, tho American Consul-Uenernl
here, as to the causa of the seliure oi
the Ushln schooners.
STATE TO BE AGENT
FOR MILK SALE HERE
Dairymen's League to Fix the
Trice and All Middlemen
Will lie Cut Out!
AldaN'T, Aug. 2S. The board of dl- j
rectors of the Dairymen's League Is to
fix the price of milk at which the farm- 1
ers supplying New York city will sell
their product, nnd the milk nfter the j
present contracts with New Yoik city
middlemen expire will be sold only ,
through tho State Commissioner of.
Poods and Markets, John J. Dillon.
Tho Dairymen's League represents I
13,000 farms and 190,000 cows In the
States of New York, New Jersey. Penn
sylvania, Connecticut and Massachu
setts. The business of the league Is
carried on by a board of directors and
through an executive committee. These
farmers now get about 3 '4 cents a
quart for milk, but believe they should
get from 4't to cents n quart.
The middlemen In New York city now
contract with the farmers separately. I
Under the plan adopted by the tragus
directors to-night the farmers will be.
organized In local leagues, with author-)
lty In each local league to handle the
milk In the locality. These local leagues
In turn will operate through the Dairy-'
men's I-e.igue. which In turn will dispose
of the milk through the State e'ommls-
sloner of Poods and Markets at a price
to be fixed by the board of directors of i
the Dairymen's League.
Mtntr Selllna Agent.
The director, drafted a letter to-night
to be sent to each of the 13,000 farmers
outlining the plan to have tneni organize
local Imgues and uu agreement into which
they arc to enter for the disposal of their
milk In which It is stated that "the
New York State Department of Foods
nnd Markets will net an the selling agent
of the league under the direction of the i
executive committee of the league to sell
milk at a uniform price to be tlxed by
the directors of the league.'' J
It is expected thai u strike' nf the i
farmers may be avoided through this
plan whereby the farmers hope that In- '
stead of having the milk distributing ,
corporations In Ne York city dictating
the price of milk to them the shoe will .
on the other foot and the milk dis
tributers will he unable to get any milk 1
except through the State Department of i
Foods ii ml Markets.
Commissioner Dillon won the directors .
over to his way of thinking nfter he had I
argued with them all afternoon and,
night. There was a disposition to strike I
ami the sentiment to strike easily pre- ;
vailed among p. lirgc majority of the!
directors.
.Wit llrml Is Chosen.
This sentiment was stroncly preva
lent at a meetlnB of the Oalrymen's
I.e.iRtie Inxird of directors held In the:
State Agricultural Hall to-day, and their'
dls usslons even went so far as to con-t
elder the retemlon of the leader who
conducted the successful milk strike In
Chicago. With a view to carrying on
the flKht for the Increase of the price of
milk to a successful Issue a new presi
dent of the league who can give all his
time to the light from now on was
elected. The man chosen vvas Jacob S.
llrlll of I'oughquog Farms, Dutches!
county.
When this agitation among the farm-
ers was ut Its inception John V. iteiow.
of Washlngtonvllle was president of the
league, and because he was unable to
give enough time to the fight he resigned
and A. Hartshorn of Hamilton was
elected. He In turn, after cviviisslnr;
the situation determined sonie one
should be elee'ed pr.ildet.t who ovuld
devote h'x enti. lime to t'io work if
securing thlt, Incieitu In pi-.co nnd he
aiso retired.
As a result of their deliberations to
day the directors of the league believe
they are well organized for a successful
fight for higher prices md they wr?
cheered by the offers of help from Com
missioner Dillon, who nt first advised
that the fanners ship their nilllt to n j
cooperative station ill .ew iori city
and establish a cooperative fnepiry to
manufactuie the unsuld milk ca.'ti day
Into butter and cheese or to t-lilp the
milk to New York, where I, cou'.d be
sold under the supervision of tho State
Department of Foods and Markets.
WIIIInK to Vacate.
Commissioner Dillon assured the farm
ers that be would be perfectly willing to
resign If they could Induce Gov. Whitman
to appoint one of their number as his
successor, so that they might know that
the sale of the milk under tho Dillon
plan would be conducted by nu expert
of their own rhooslng. Commissioner
Dillon offered the facilities of his New
York ofhee to the directors of the league
while they nre carrying on their agitation
for higher prices.
Iloth President llrlll and Commissioner
Dillon feel that the scheme they have
worked out to aid the farmers will com
pel the middlemen In New York city to
give tho farmer his price or that public
opinion will drive them out of business
and cause the HUh.4tltutlou of other ave
nues of illfltilbutlon for the milk.
Among the directors and members of
the executive coinmltteo present at to
day's meeting were F, II. Thompson
of Holland Patent, vice-president; Ixiuls
SI. Hardin of .Sussex, N, J president
of the Dairymen's League! Alfred n,
Kheard of Mllanvllle, I'a. ! CUfK-J S.
Hough of Washington, Conn. ; Frank
Sherman of Copnke, I). H, Slater of
MargnrctvlUc, Harry W. Culver of
Amenta, Oscar Bailey of llretvster, Dr.
C. D. Huxtnblc of Hlchtleld .Springs,
(Irant Fnrrlngton of l'ulatkl, Alberl"K.
Helircr of Kviuih Mills, II. F, Livingston
of Chemuny, John .S. I'etteys of Green
wich. Harry Hull of Campbell Hall,
Charles C Gordon of Iiwvllle, J, D.
Itcardsley of New Herlln, Charles M,
Coe of llouckvlllc and Clarence F. Hunt
of Manlllus.
l,OOt Chinese Coolies for France.
Paws, Aug. 2R, One thousand Chi
nese laborers urrlved nt Lyons to-day.
They constitute, the first contingent of
Chinese who are to be brought to France
for worjln munitions factories
Otstkk Hat. L. I Aug. IS. Following
n scene of excitement nt the meeting of
the town board to-day, where the citi
zens of tho village bad gathered to
protest against the stringent quarantine
tules put Into effect because of Infantile
paralysis, the members of tho town board
lift their chairs. The 1 citliens took i
charge and drew up a withering set of
tesolutlons, placing the blame for the.
terror nnd loss of business on "medical
pirates."
John D. rtockefcllcr was excoriated In i
the resolution for tempting physicians by
giving them uti opportunity to achieve
notoriety and money from his fund.
Theodore Itooscvelt was sympathized I
with for having lent his name to the.
cause of the "medical bandits," and the
citizens, In I'omiusitMt, demanded of the ,
town hoard that the "medico maniacs be
discharged and the oltlolals return to a
lonunon horse sense view of the situa
tion." For a month the residents of Oyster
Hay have been enduring under protest
the stringent quarantine rules, more es
pecially the lule which permitted the
health ofllcer to remove children from
their homes to Isolation hospitals If. In
his opinion, they had symptoms of Infan
tile paralysis. Only a few days ago It
ri-qulred four deputy sheriffs and two
physicians to force u father to let his
child be taken away.
For Retnrn in Heatnn,
Many lesldents, sup.'mrted In part by.
several physicians, contend that children '
suffering with nothing but teething and1
summer complaint have been rushed to ,
Isolation hospitals aiinlust the protests of
their parents.
To-day when the town lionrd met the
hall was jammed to capacity. Angry
fnthers wanted to know why their chll-
dren had been said to have Infantile
paralsls and their houses quarantined
when It had developed the otingslers
were not suffering from the disease.
Joseph Stelnert. chairman of the town,
board, tried vainly to restore order, but
the excitement grew to such proportions
EMPTY MUNICIPAL
BUILDING AGLOW
Lfjjlits on All 25 Floors
Turned On in Honor of Life
Insurance Arents.
Every light In the Immense t'.oor space
of the twenty-five stories of the Munici
pal building was ablaie for two hours
last tilslit. Kvcry tloor and otllce was
empty, with no one, not even the munici
pally fed cat, present to blink Its eves at
the radiance. The taxpayers of the city
vald. or will have to pay. the lighting
bill, because some one asked that the
bulldlne b lighted up to honor the
ngents of the ttiultaMc Life Assurance
Society, which yesterday begtn Its an
nua: convention In the Waldorf-Astoria.
At the stroke of eight last night pedes,
trlnus In the vicinity of the Brooklyn
Bridge suddenly shaded their eyei from
. n I 1I..1.. Did rnti klnnnr.1 nml
lin UI1U-U.II UK,.. '" .-.w,.,
wondered. A few minutes later a ta-p-ier
called up Tin: Kiw and o.-ked i
Il,n 1.1.,.. n-:,H i
"The point being," said this person,
quite decidedly, "that every Hvjht In that
building Is burning; that there Isn't a
durned soul In It except a night watch
man, and for why? It's the taxpayers
who'll have to pny the lighting bill."
A watchman In the big structure vol
unteered the Information that he had
heard that the ecintlllant orgy was In
commemoration of the third enr of the
Municipal building's existence. Mayor
Mltihel Is In Phittshurg shooting targets,
and he couldn't be reached.
Finally J. W. Adams, secretary to the
Borough President, was located, nnd he
explained the great light mystery.
"Yes." said .Mr. Adnms, "tho building
was ordered lighted for two bouts in
honor of the Kqultahle convention. The
lights wero switched on at S o'clock and
will be turned off promptly at 10 o'clock,"
Six hundred ngents, comprising uie
ngency clubs of the Equitable Life As
surance Society, gathered In the Waldorf-Astoria
yesterday from every part
of the I'nlted States. They will remain
hern until September 1 discussing life
Insurance and general business i-otidi-tlons,
which, they declare, are better
than they have been for some time.
Frank 1.. Dowllng, president of the
Board of Aldeimen and Acting Mayor
In the ill-fence of Mayor Mltrhel, said last
night he had given no orders fir the
Illumination of the building. He sug
gested that Major Mltchel might have
put the order through befoie he left for
Plattsburg.
COOL SNAP CHEERS CITY.
Weather Forecaster Promises to
Keep It Ilrre Two Day.
New York was a cheerful town yes
terday. It was Invigorated by a cool
spell which blew In on tho clouds of tho
storm from tho West, sending the mer
cury as low as 55 degrees at 1 ;30 P, M,
During the larger part of the day the
thermometer stayed consistently around
65, being 6 at s A, M. nnd 63 nt s P. M,
Due to the rain which spattered the
city lightly in the morning, tho humidity
was rather high, hovering between St
and "1. nut who cares about humidity
when It's cool? Best of all, the wenther
forecaster promises that this spell will
remain for a couplo of days more, at
least.
TAFT OUT OF POLITICS.
CblraKii Crowds Fall In HecoKnlir
llllll on Street.
ClllCAno. Aug. US. William II. Taft,
here to attend the convention of the
American Bar Association, which opens
Wednesday, told reporters to-day that
Chlcngo convinced him he was out of
politics.
I walked four blocks tbrounh tho
downtown streets and made one purchase
in a store without any one apparently
recognlilne me," the former President
aid.
that the members of the board withdrew.
Col. Henry M. Hennctt wna then tnnde
chairman of the citizens committee, nnd
n committee was named to drnw up a set
of resolutions which would embody the
views of the community.
The resolution, nfter reciting that the
community, "through the Intriguing nnd
propaganda of certain so-called medical
and scientific men." had leen gradually
let from a quiet, peaceful, law abiding
continuity to a "state of excitability,
frenzy, nnd even terror, of a mysterious
bug, germ or miasma which exists f-olely
In the minds of a paid cotcriu of public
servants whose business Is to find such
things to further sale of their nostrums,"
goes on to say :
"Through the Inspiration and Incentive
which a great endowment offers to most
ambitious men, John D. Rockefeller and
Mr. Carnegie, uetuated by a desire to re
turn a small measure of good for the
millions which they have extorted from
the common people, have seen tit to set
atlde from their unearned Increment n
stupendous fund which no microbe,
germ, biirtlll or even an honorable phy
sician could ovel look "
Meillco-Pniltleo llnrlinrUm."
In conclusion, nfter commiserating
with that "great heart Col. Roosevelt"
for "having unknowingly aided In the
propaganda of the medical profession,"
the resnluton states:
"And whereas loth profane nnd mod
em hlstir are feplete with the medico
politico barbarism of which we are now
receiving a sample, perpetrated upon
this community for private gain and
newspaper notoriety, therefore be It re
solved ,
"That It Is the sense of this commit
eo that the i redullty of the public h is
been preyed upon siitll.iently long In the
neighborhood . that the business Inter
ests are sulllclently paralyzed : that
frenzy and terror have been sulllclently
propagated , that It Is high time for a re
turn to common sense, the dlschargo of
the medical maniacs, the resumption of
local business, the recall and restoring
to confidence of our easily scared sum
mer lesldents and the application of
lommon horse sense to the so-called epi
demic with which we as well as bther
communities have been afflicted."
BIG JUMP IN N. Y.
EXPORTS TO RUSSIA
Nearly One-sixth of Goods
Sent Out in Week Co to
Czar's Subjects.
An analysis of Lift week's foreign
trade at tho port of New York, pub
lished by the foreign trade department
of the National City Bank, shows that
S iS.SP4.6S9 of the T,10,341 worth of
American goods exported were sold to
llussl.i alone. Of this amount about
J 10, 000, 000 tepresenteil purchases of
war mater.nl and the remaining 12,500,
000 Included harness, motor cars, miscel
laneous machinery and general mer- j
thandlre.
Exports to France were K. 000,000
greater than those to nusla. but the I
ltusslan Item s the more striking one
beeau-e of Its lelatlvely Hidden gioivih. !
Shipments fiom New York to Itus'la
during the corresponding wiek hist year'
were valued at I.' ,1 7VM. less than half
of last week's shipments, and In the.
Mime week of 1914 they amounted to :
only JU'O.Clo, Shipments to England,
were even gieater than those to France
or Itussla, aggregating J 1 ,'01.P3 ;
but It is well known that a goodly part
of these exports was intended for other I
ultimate dest. nations. j
Shipments p, all other Emepean coun
tries sggregateil M2,00,0on, Including
Jt.noo.noo to Italy. I-.'.iT.o.oon .ch to I
Holland and Noiwa, $1,i1mQ,uhii to Bel-J
glum, J'.MiO.Otiii to Spain, .3."i0,0urt tot
liieece and $1.10, 0oo to Sweden. Exports
to South America we-e nlued ,it J3,t;?,",
000. compared with I,t75,0ii0 during the
correMHindlng week hiM vcar,
Imports for the week were valued at
$U',".-:!i,''.4, of which :i,r.-.'l,ooo repre
sented foodstuffs, $3,V30.uoo manufac
turing niatnials, $3,01 l.ooo manufac
tures and $1,04'.', 000 miscellaneous arti
cles, N. Y. HOTELS ARE CHILDLESS.
Visitors to the City l.rnir the Ut
ile Ones nt Home.
Tim big hotels of New York are
virtually childless. A reporter for Tub
Sun who went the rounds yesterday
could not find one child registered. In
the lobby of the McAlplu was a little
hoy who was receiving more than ordi
nary attention from tho women visitors,
but he wns not stopping there.
Of course the Infantile paralysis
scare Is the reason. The hotel books
show that the usual number of adults
nre visiting New York, but they aie
not bringing their children. From tho
hotel viewpoint this Is carrying precau
tion to an extreme, for slnco the be
ginning of the epidemic, nrcordlns; to
the managers, not a single case has
been reported from a New York hotel,
Ono malinger said ho recently re
ceived a letter from a woman who In
qulied how many cases of Infantile
paralysis tin re were In his hotel and
wanted to know If another hotel which
she named did not have three cases.
She said she wanted to be sure she had
reason for keeping her children away
front another woman's children who had
Just returned from tho city.
BANQUET FOR SPANISH LINE.
Held In Vlsro to Celebrate Neir
Service With Xerr Vork.
JjKrldl Cabte ttpatch to Tns bus.
Viuo, Spain, Aug. 28, A banquet
was held here last evening to celebrate
tho forthcoming establishment of the
new fast steamship lino from VIbo to
New York,
Leopold Ariiaud, secretary of the
Spanish Chamber of Commerce In New
York, presided. Former Minister of
Finance I'rzalz, the Mayor of Vigo and
the president of Its Chamber of Com
merce attended.
There were enthusiastic speeches
about the future of the new line and
closer Hlspano-Amerlcan relations. Tho
Government has guaranteed 5 per cent,
on the capital, which la secured.
Vf rl ,- vw Ar f i v . M (sJtsy s.sv
i " . t ' t
A friend of the Allies in
'daughter, Princess Eleana. The Queen is a granddaughter of
'the iate Queen Victoria and first cousin to King George of
i Great Britain.
RUMANIA IN WAR
. TO FREE 4,000,000
First Aim to Gain Territory
Montr Frontier: Then to I
Help Crush Teutons. J
ItoMK, Aug. rtumanla's prompt
action In followlf.g Italy's declaration
of war iigalnt Germany with formal
announcement that tho "Litln nation
of the Balkans" s openly aligned against
the Teuton empires has eaus.il un
bounded enthusiasm In Italy. It has
ttnusformed the ltumano-ltallan accord,
which has exNted since the outbreak of
the European war. Into a real offensive
and defensive alliance.
Whethei or riot Ituman'.a will enter
Into a inilltlc.il and ecotioml.- agree,
ment which now binds the nations In the
Entente, It may be accepted as beyond
nil doubt that henceforth Italy and
lltinianl.i will act hand In hand In every
thing that concerns the future of the
Balkans.
Take Jonwcii, leader of the Dem
ocratic party of Rumania, who has un
ce.islng'y preached the doctrine of antl
Gcrmani'in and urged his conip.ttt lots
to enter the war on the side of the
Entente, explained to a correspondent,
of the Conine drlbi Sent of Milan the
reason for the vloe friendship which has
alwas bound Italy to P.unianla.
A llriilhrrly Altitude."
"Itnmanla." he said, "always has ap
preciated the really brotherly attitude
which Italy has shown toward u. Italv
was the llrst nation to iccokiiUc the In
dependence of P.unianla, and shn has
always supported us In the questions aris
ing from tho pieseme of a ltumanlan
population In Macedonia.
"No were nappy to see uaiy esi.io
lish herself In vlona, and we hope she
will neer leave that Albanian port.
We have no Illusions regarding this.
Italv can remain permanently In Al
bania only If Germany and Austria are
beaten.
"Germ my victorious would have abso
lute need of the Adriatic. Salonlca ami
Constantinople. There l an unsuriiioiint
ablu Incompatibility between the In
terests of Italy In the Near East and
those. of the Central Empires. The same
Incompatibility exists between our In
terests and those of Austria-Hungary.
"The Idea has been expressed that
Itumanla could fulfil her national des
tiny without venturing Into war, ns a
reward for benevolent neutrality. That
lilea Is absurd. Moreover. It Is con
trary to our history, to our traditions,
to our future position In the world, It
Is Impossible that the sacrifices that are
now being maibi by the two groups of
belligerents should lesult In favor of
those who take no part In the struggle,
I'enee by Sacrifice.
"War Is horrible, but after this war
there will be n long period of peaco
and no nation which lu. set before it
an Ideal can affoi-i iose this unique
opportunity to with Its own blood
Its nation! rs-ness."
In vie the fact that Itunianla's
first v,w at the dual monarchy will
be etruck at Hungary, Take Jonescu's
opinion legaldliiB tho responsibility of
the war Is Interesting. He pluces the
entire blame on tho Hungarian advisers
of Emperor Francis Joseph.
"Austria's policy," he said, "has been
directed entirely by Count Tlsia, who
is n man nf great mental power, en
dowed with brutal energy. Count
Iierchtold, who wns Austrian Premier
when war was declared against Serbia,
Is also a Hungarian. He was absolutely
under the domination of Tlsza. Almost
all the Ambassadors of the dual mon
archy have been Hungarians.
"Count Tlsza understood that one day
Austria would be forced to adopt a form
of federalism which would Inevltably
destmy the preponderating influence of
tho Hungarians. It was he who first
Continued on Second Page,
Rumania. Queen Marie and her
SERBS ON OFFENSIVE
: DRIVE BULGARS BACK
Important Onins Made Afterj
Hard Iir!t t i it r New (ireek J
Points Seized.
lU!s, Aug. Tho new Serbian
army Is llgh'ing gallantly in a vmomus
offensive In Macedonia, anil s not being
be.ittn back by the Bulgais, as the lat
ter claim, the War tullce announced to
day. Near Vetremk. west of the Vardir
Hlver, the Srrbs have made considerable
progress In h ird fighting with their old
enemies. Near Kukuruz the Serbs have
made ii tt Important advance, the War
OIHee says, and have repeatedly defeated
the Bulgars.
The llulgnrs announced a few days
ago that on August '.'1 the Serbians had
made eighteen success. ve and fieri coun
ter nttniks, which the Blllgirs icpulsed
In this riglon The War tillice expiessly
contradicts this state mi nt.
In the legion west of Kavala the ltul
gars have occupied several points that
tie Greeks have abandoned. The British
have bombarded enemy fmres at the
mouth of the Struma, wheie the British
look up their positions after Knvala was
evacuated by the Greeks.
The British statenunt, tt legraphed
heie, srfjs that the nrtllliry file about
Dolran. where the main offensive Is likely
t start, silenced Bulgarian guns, which
were bonibardlns the Hiltlsh position.
This statement savs that the Serbs re-
pulsed three Bulaiir attacks further west
on the lianic.i-Ostrovo road.
' STEFANSS0N SUPPLIES GONE,
i .
Tticiitj-oiie From Wrecked Poller
limit I. ii lilted nt .Nome,
' N'llMl! Al.lsk.'l V'l- '. Tvi ..tov.nnn
men w o wfie on the power boat Gie.il
Hear when s,ie was r, Kr) OM :i pinna
do. rock near S' Mat.htw s I.iud August
1 were I.ii. lnl hern vistuda) by the
Fulled Stales coast guaid cutter Mc
culloch. The Great Hear, built by John ISonUn
of Chicago nnd Ciipt. Louis Lane, nn
arctic navigator, had s, t U ffion Seattle
on a hunting .md finding expedition, and
Intended In meet Stefausson, tint ex
plorer, at Bankslatul at.d replenish his
suppllea.
It Is believed Stefausson, who hicks
gasolene and other supplies, will be
obliged to abandon Ills expirations
uoith of Bankslatul and re: inn to the
Mackenzie delta for tie winter.
Cmc'voo, Alls. IJ, News of th" safe
airlv.tl at Nome, Al.isk.f, of John Dor
il( n, wealthy Chicago sportsman, and
others of his party who were ship,
wrecked In the Arctic was received to.
da.v by Mrs, Borden In a cablegram from
her husband,
Borden said the entire party was
safe and In good health, hut gave no In
formation legardlng his future plans.
RAIL LINK FOR SWEDEN-RUSSIA
Aareemeni llatlflril for Brlda;f
Across Itlvrr Tornen.
I.onpon, Aug, K. An agreement be.
tween Sweden and Itussla for linking
tho railway systems of the two countries
by bridging the Blvcr Tornea, which
fut ins part of the boundary between
Sweden and Itussia, has Jut been rati
fied, accurdlng to a lleutcr Stockholm
despatch.
Tho construction nf the bridge will be
gin September 1.
Blither Prices For I'litatncn,
ItlVKKllKAti, L, ! Aug. The price
of potatoes is going to be higher this
year than last, accord ine; to pi lees pre.
vailing here now lluiiy potatoes sold
last year at tills time for ft out 0.1 to 70
cents u bushel, hut now they brlnu $1
n bushel, Tlie crop is large, according to
the farmers.
First Clash of Armies Cornea
at Two Stratejrie Toints
on Boundary
ADVANCE LEADS TO
TEUTONS IX (ALICIA
Jlcrmannstadt. K roust adt
' First Objectives Greece
"With Allies Soon.
j MINISTER. GUARDED,
' GOES TO BUCHAREST
Germany Declares War:
Massing Troops at the
Froniter.
Hkm.in, Aug. 2S. Uum.inl.i lias en
tered the great war on the Fide of tho
Allies nnd lu nt war with Germany and
Austria-Hungary. I'umanlnn troops
already have commenced nn invasion
of the Hungarian province of Transyl
vania, and lighting between Rumanian
and Austrian troops Is on in the Tran
sylvanlan Alps.
It Is announced here tifllcinlly that
litiiuanla declared war cm Austrln-
jllunpnry last evening. After a tnect
i Ins of the Federal Council it vvas iin-
mmuccd that Genu. my had declared
war upon i'timanln. The followlm?
stutenicnt was made ofllcinlly:
After Humaula, as already reported,
disgracefully broke treaties concluded
with Austria-Hungary and Germ-iny
she declared war yesterday against our
ally. The Imperial German Minister
to Itumanla has received Instructions
to request his passports and to declare
to the ltumanlan Omernnient that Ger
many now likewise considers, herself
at war with Itumanla.
I l.rarrs In (innriled Tritln.
Tho ltumanlan Minister ut Vienna per
Isonally pu-scnted the Itumnnhin decla
'ration of war nt the Ministry of Foreign
lAfT.Wrs. The note said that Itumanla
'considered herself at war with Austria
Hungary from ? o'clock Sund ly evening.
' Soon afterward he culled at the Ballplatz
and received his passports. He left to
, day for Buchanst by a special train that
has been assured protection.
I The first fighting between ltuin.mla
I nnd the Teutonic powers occurred almost
, Immediately nfter the notification had
been delivered on Sunday evening. The
oitlclal statement given out here de.
scribes thee attacks as "treacherous,"
but savs ltumanlan prisoners were taken.
At two points on the boundary between
I Itiiinnnla and Tian Ivntil.i, the eastern
! mot province of the Ausiro-llungarlan
monarchy, advance gtiants of tho two
armies came Into contact. The statement
does not Indicate that the lighting was
Fi-rlous.
lltll St Tl'lltflllB. Ill flnllflla.
I Its Importance, however. Is that It Indl-
.' u. i.uiiitwiiiioK uu e.-my nave
launched an Invasion of Transylvania
from the south, which, If successful, will
i take In the Hunk of the Austro-German
positions further north In Gullela,
I This Invasion, us nlwady Indicated by
jthe very first irports of the lighting in
in- new i nen ire. will be through two
, p-isses In tlioTnih.sylvanlun Alps, alined
(Immediately at two considerable cities of
lTranslv,iiil,t. The lighting repotted to-
day was In the ltothenthurni pass nnd In
I pusses south of Kronstailt.
j Tin, ltothenthurni Pass pierces th
i ..ii.-, kaiii, in .iips, ine natural h.trrlei
on the northwestern fiontler of Uu
ni.inlu, near Its western extremity,
Through It runs the Aluta liiver and a
iallro.nl which starts at the Duriihe and
runs north almost beside the Aluta. Val
ley .md railroad make easy the transport
of troops and supplies for an Invasion.
Two Cities (he Olijeett ve.
At the Transylvanlan end of the lloth
cnthutm Pass, only fifteen miles from the
border, Is the city (if llerinaniistadt, the
former capital of Transylvania, some,
times called Nagy-Szeben, Its popula
tion is 33,000, This Important city is one
of tile Immedlute Ittimaniuti objectives.
The other objective. Is the city of Kron
stailt, about seventy mile-, southeast of
llermannst.tilt, but only six miles from
the ltumanlan frontier The pass that
leads to this city, snim times called
Brnsso, is the routo of the Important
railroad from Ploesel, hi Itum.iuln, which
turns west aftei It passes into Transyl.
vanln and runs from that province into
Hungary proper. Kionsta.lt Is tho com
mercial and niauufaciuiiiig centra of
Transylvania and has a population of
41,000.
There Is a sentimental as well ns a
military reason for the Invasion of Tran
sylvania, ami particularly for tho ad
vance upon the two cities of Kroiiktadt
und Hermannstndt Theio is also a po.
lit leal reason, Like most of Transyl
vania, the population of both cities Is al.
most entirely ltumanlan. It Is to reclaim
them from Austria, to liberate them as
Franco hopri to liberate Alsace-Lorraine,
and also to secure them agilnst
the time of settlement, that ltumanlan
troops are essalng the passes of the
Transylvanlan Alps.
Will Meet I.-.O.OOO Tratons.
Opposed to them on this lino they will
have troops of the Tuftonlc Allies, sta
tioned there long since because of tho
growing conviction In Germany that Ira
mania was ultimately going with tho
Allies. No estimates have been made
authoritatively of their strength, but It
has been supposed to bn from 100,000 to
110,000,
Tho announcement of llumanla'a sc.
lion and the prompt backing the Oer
man Oovemment had accorded hor ally,
Austria-Hungary, caused little surprise
In Berlin, and there Is a yet wt-
