WEATHER.
Partly cloudy and somewhat warmer
tonight and tomorrow: light variable
winds.
Temperature for twenty-four hours
ending 2 p.m.: Highest, 74, at 2:80 p.m.
vesterday: lowest, 5?, at 5:30 a.m. today.
Full report on page 12.
? \
CLOSING KBW YORK STOCKS PAGE 12.
"From Press to Horn?
Within the Hour"
Swtn Met Clrralatlra, Moitfc ?! J?ly.
Dally Ama|?, ??^?t SU^ro.
No. 29,425. .
ONE CENT.
PRESIDENT APPEALS
TO CONGRESS TO PASS
LAW TO CURB STRIKE
Reveals Negotiations Between Railroads and
Organized Employes at Joint Session
of House and Senate.
WANTS EIGHT-HOUR DAY STATUTE
AND COMMISSION TO APPLY IT
Favors Statute Providing Investigation of Controversies and Suspension
of Walkouts Pending Findings?Would Enlarge Interstate
? Commerce Commission?Many Conferences Held.
Facing the greatest strike in the history of the world, balked
after two weeks' personal effort cis mediator to avert an industrial
cataclavsm, President Wilson, in an unprecedented effort, is this
afternoon appealing to a joint session of Congress for legislation
to meet the crisis.
The President is also taking this course to acquaint the people
of the United States with the facts in the controversy as they have
come before him, and the desperate endeavors he has made to avert
the catastrophe in their interests.
Just withm the hour when the President was to make his
dramatic appeal these two committees made public statements cov
ering their views of the outstanding features of the proposed legis
lation. The brotherhoods claimed that enactment of a compulsory
investigation law, patterned after the Canadian law, would be a
reversal to slavery. The railroad executives protested that refusal
to arbitrate the demands of the employes undermines the very
basis of arbitration and will entail widespread industrial strife.
The President felt driven to make his last stand before Con
gress by the fact that the tentative order for a strike to start
Labor day morning was today made actual, unless revoked by the
brotherhood committee. This move was taken, it was understood,
that no legislative action might be able to prevent the strike.
The President in his address to Congress on the strike situation
said:
"GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:
"I bave come to you to seek your assistance in dealing with a
very grave situation which has arisen out of tha. demand of the
employes of the railroads engaged in freight train service that
they be granted an eight-hour working day, safeguarded by pay
ment for an hour and a half of service for every hour of work
beyond the eight. *
"The matter has been agitated for more than a year. The
public has been made familiar with the demands of the men and the
arguments urged in favor of them, and even more familiar with the
objections of the railroads and their counter demand that certain
privileges now enjoyed by their men and certain bases of pay
ment worked out through many years of contest be reconsidered,
especially in their relation to the adoption of an eight-hour day.
The matter came some three weeks ago to a final issue and re
sulted in a complete deadlock between the parties. The means
provided by law for the mediation of the controversy failed and
the means of arbitration for which the law provides were rejected.
The representatives of the railway executives proposed that the
demands of the men be submitted in their entirety to arbitration,
along with certain questions of readjustment as to pay and condi
tions of employment which seemed to them to be either closely
associated with the demands or to call for reconsideration on their
own merits; the men absolutely declined arbitration, especially if
any of their established privileges were by that means to be drawn
again in question. The law in the matter put no compulsion upon
them.
"The 400,000 men from whom the demands proceeded had voted
to strike if their demands were refused; the strike was imminent; it
has since been set for the 4th of September next. It affects the men
who man the freight trains on practically every railway in the coun
try. The freight service throughout the United States must stand
still until their places are filled, if, indeed, it should prove possible to
fill them at all. Cities will be cut off from their food supplies, the
whole commerce of the nation will be paralyzed, men of every sort
and occupation will be thrown out of employment, countless thou
sands will in all likelihood be brought, it may be, to the very point
of starvation, and a tragical national calamity brought on, to be
added to the other distresses of the time, because no basis of ac
commodation or settlement has been found.
MEDIATION IS OFFERED.
"Just so soon as it became evident that mediation under the
existing law had failed and that arbitration had been rendered im
possible by the attitude of the men, I considered it my duty to con
fer with the representatives of both the railways and the brother
hoods, and myself offer mediation, not as an arbitrator, but merely
as spokesman of the nation, in the interest of justice, indeed, and
as a friend of both parties, but not as judge, only as the representa
tive of one hundred millions of men, women and children who would
pay the price, the incalculable price, of loss and suffering should
these few men insist upon approaching and concluding the matters
in controversy between them merely as employers and employes,
rather than as patriotic citizens of the United States looking before
and after and accepting the larger responsibility which the public
would put upon them. ?
"It seemed to me, in considering the subject matter of the con
troversy, that the whole spirit of the time and the preponderant
evidence of recent economic experience spoke for the eight-hour
day. It has been adjudged by the thought and experience of recent
years a thing upon which society is justified in insisting as in the
interest of health, efficiency, contentment and a general increase of
economic vigor."
PROPOSALS OF PRESIDENT.
"The whole presumption of modern experience, would, it seemed
to me, be in its favor, whether there was arbitration or not, and the
debatable points to settle were those ikrhich aroseXout of the ac
ceptance of the eight-hour day rather than those which affected its
establishment. I, therefore, proposed that the eight-hour day be
(Continued on fltcond F???.)
Desperate Fighting Is Report
ed in Passes of the Tran
sylvanian Alps.
KING LEAVES BUCHAREST
TO COMMAND HIS ARMY
General Mobilization Ordered and
Great Enthusiasm Is BepoTted
in Bumanian Capital.
EYES NOW TTTBN TO ATHENS
Germany Said to Be Making Prep
arations in Expectation of Hav
ing to Meet Greeks as
Well as Rumanians.
ZURICH, August 29, via
Paris. ? Rumanian troops
which have been concen
trated at Jassy, near the
Russian frontier, entered
Transsylvania at a point to
the west of Piatra, and, ac
cording to information 1 re
ceived here, are reported to
have joined forces with Rus
sian troops coming from
Bukowina.
The first hostilities be
tween Rumania and Austria
Hungary broke out Sunday
evening south and south
west of Kronstadt (Brasso).
Skirmishes also are reported
farther west at Col Tour
Rouge.
BERLIN, August 29, via
London, 6:01 p.m.?Reports
were received here today
that the Rumanians have
been defeated in their first
effort*, -to force a way
through three mountain
?passes into Hungary.
LONDON, August 29, 2:45
p.m.?Desperate fighting on the
border between Rumania and
Hungary is reported in an Ex
change Telegraph dispatch from
Bern, Switzerland. The Ruma
nians, the message says, are mak
ing furious efforts to capture the
important mountain passes.
This information, the dispatch
says, is contained in a telegram
from Austrian headquarters pub
lished in the Bund of Bern.
King Ferdinand of Rumania to
day left Bucharest for the front
to take command of the army, ac
cording to information received
here today from the Rumanian
capital.
Enthusiasm at Bucharest.
A diHpatch from Bucharest by way of
Petrograd says that King Ferdinand
has ordered the general mobilization of
the Rumanian army. Great enthusiasm
prevails in the capital, the dispatch
adds.
According: to a dispatch from Vienna
by way of Berlin all Rumanian citizens
in the Austrian capital have been called
upon by the authorities to report within
forty-eight hours at the police head
quarters in their precincts and to fur
nish documents establishing their iden
tity.
Greece Expected to Enter.
An Exchange Telegraph dispatch
from The Hague says Germany is mak
ing preparations for the eventual entry
of Greece into the war. which German
diplomatic circles regard as certain.
Many Greeks have departed from Ger
many, and tomorrow the Greek minister
in Berlin is to be received by Chancel
lor von Bethmann-Hollweg.
Kronstadt and Hermannstadt, to
(Continued on Second Page.)
DAY IN CONGRESS*
v Senate:
Met at 11 a.m.
Adopted resolution for joint
session of Congress at 2:30
o'clock to hear President Wil
son's message on railroad crisis.
Resumed debate on revenue
bill.
Senator Reed, in speech, re
viewed achievements of Wilson
administration.
Tobacco growers, protesting
with members of Congress
against British embargo against
shipment of tobacco to Germany
and Austria, drew up brief to
submit to Secretary Lansing.
Met in joint session with the
House at 2:30 o'clock to hear
President Wilson's speech- on
railroad strike legislation.
House i
Met at 11 a.m.
Prepared for President's rail
road message.
St ......... I
D. G. GETS $183,867
IN DEFICIENCY BILL
Total Amount Carried in Meas
ure, Reported to House,
Is $14,323,072.23.
In the deficiency appropriation bill,
reported to the House today, the Dis
trict items amount to $183,867.47 out
of a total of $14,323,072.23. The bill
provides money for the tag-end needs
of departments of the government,
army, navy and separate establish
ments, the various totals being: as fol
lows:
State Department, 83,073,084.40; Treas
; ury Department, $472,301.06; District
of Columbia, $183,867.47; War Depart
ment, $816,109.53; military establish
ment, $2,315,000; fortifications, field
artillery, $1,200,000; Panama canal for
tifications, $533,000; National Soldiers'
Homes, $29,500; State Soldiers' Homes^
$2,247.03; Navy Department, $82,661.74;
naval establishment, $1,836,070.85; De
partment of the Interior, $79,571.40;
judicial, $6,533.33; United States courts,
$71,772.43; Post Office Department, $24,
000; postal service, $1,206,940.08; De
partment of Commerce, $125,000; De
partment of Labor, $161,572.50; United
States employes' compensation commis
sion, $550,000; House of Representa
tives, $62,025; government printing of
fice, $3,704.67; judgments, United States
courts, $2,069.55; judgments. Court of
Claims, $747,437.26; judgments, Indian
depredation, $35,804; audited clalmp,
$702,810.03.
The estimates concerning these de
ficiencies totaled $22,373,381.37.
The largest Individual item is that of
$3,000,000 to pay the republic of Nicara
gua, in compliance with the canal
treaty with that country.
District Items Covered.
The District items cover a mass of
small deficiencies in the coroner's office,
tax office, street Improvements and
sewers. The school deficiency covers a
score of items, including the much dis
cussed longevity pay for teachers, and
the allowance to principals. The largest
item in this section Is the longevity de
ficiency for 1916, amounting to $31,
749.94.
Other District deficiencies include ap
proximately: $1,000 for the Juvenile
Court; $9,000 for support of convicts;
$2,100 for the Supreme Court of the Dis
trict; $8,422 for the Washington asylum
and Jail; National Training School for
Boys, $488; Emergency Hospital, $11,
312; Children's Hospital, $6,500; board
of children's guardians, $16,432; Indus
trial Home School for Colored Chil
dren, $2,489; Industrial Home School,
$1,179, and support of indigent insane,
$7,080.
The bill provides that all the District
items shall be paid for on the half-an?
half plan.
Riders in the Bill.
Legislative riders In the bill provide
for the following:
That unless efficiency ratings are es
tablished in the government t depart
ments and separate establishments em
ployes of the offices where these rat
ings are not in effect ehall not be pro
moted after March 31, 1917.
That the bureau of efficiency shall
start an investigation into the methods
of transacting business In the bureau
of Internal revenue.
That the Commissioners of the Dis
trict of Columbia are authorized to pay
from the bathing beach funds the sal
aries of certain employes at the beach
from July 1 to September 15, 1916.
Hot Brea^fait at Plattiburg Camp.
PLATTSBUKG, Y.. August 29.?A
field kitchen etmllar to those used by
the entente allied armies in (Europe
has received it* first trial here, 500
men of the 9th Regiment of the mili
tary tralnln* camp being provided with
a hot breakfast. The kitchen will be
used during practice marches.
Nebraska Prohibition Fight
Expected to Have Bearing
in National Election.
W. J. BRYAN OCCUPIES
A PECULIAR POSITION
Espouses Mr. Wilson's Cause, But
Speeches Aid Republicans?Party I
Lilies Not Closely Drawn.
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
OMAHA, Neb., August 29.
One of the most interesting
political situations is found in
Nebraska, which may at this time
properly be classed as a doubtful
state on the presidency, the Unit
ed States senatorship and the
governorship. The question of
j which way the state will go
politically will depend largely
upon how it stands on proposed
state-wide prohibition in Novem
ber.
As the republican candidates for sen
ator and governor avowedly support
prohibition and the democratic candi
dates for the same offices as openlv
take the other side, the liquor question
becomes political, with the two parties
practically aligned upon it. and the
contest unavoidably will affect the na
I tional ticket to a degree, at least.
Party Lines Disturbed.
According to "form" Nebraska should
be a republican state In a presidential
election, with a united republican
party. This year a number of elements
enter into it, causing, a disintegration
I of party lines, and keep the wiseacres
guessing: for the moment.
Women do n?t vote in Nebraska,
suffrage having been defeated two
years ago, and the prohibition forces
will be lacking this powerful element
of strength which is lent them In the
suffrage states. They will have, how
ever, the support of~William J. Bryan
for whatever it may be worth, who is
advocating the prohibition amendment
Mr. Bryan In that attitude is there
fore logically lending aid and comfort
I to the republican party, since the lat
ter's candidates invoke the support of
the anti-liquor vote. He Is stoutly
standing up for President Wilson how
ever. If President Wilson should lose
Nebraska and the stftTe go for prohibi
tion Mr. Bryan would resume his posi
tion as the first democrat of the state.
Hitchcock Is Candidate.
Senator Hitchcock Is a candidate for re
election and opposes prohibition. He was
opposed for renomination by Mr. Bryan,
whom he supported in the early days of
Mr. Bryan's career at the Imminent risk
of his own financial bankruptcy. He will
have the aid of the liberal element of the
state, partially regardless of party the
solid support of the German vote which
is about 24 per cent of the vote of the
state, whether that vote goes araln?
President Wilson or not. The Germans
are for him because of his action favoring
the non-shipment of munitions aa well a?
for his stand on the prohibition question.
He ia opposed by John Kennedy, a
wealthy republican of Omaha, a Scotch
man by birth, but not as democratic mar
(Continued on Seventh Pace.)
Rebukes Secretariat War for,
Dismissals of Men on Army
Mine Planter.
The discharge of certain American
citizens from the employ of the United
States War Department because they
were not native-born Americans was
made the subject of a scathing attack
upon the democratic administration
today, in the Senate, by Senator Jones
of Washington.
These foreign-born American cit
izens so discharged were employed on
the United States Army mine planter,
Major Samuel Ringgold, and were six
in number.
No Beply From War Department.
More than a month ago Senator Jones
introduced a resolution in the Senate,
and had it passed, calling upon the
Secretary of^War to inform the Senate
what orders had been issued by the
Wat* Department during the last three
years directing the non-employment of
or discriminating between citizens of
the" United States in connection with :
the work of his department.
"There has never been any reply to j
this resolution, so far as I know," said |
Senator Jones. "I suppose the Secre- l
tary of War has been too busy cam- i
paigning on behalf of the administra- j
tion to discharge public business and
comply with the request of the Senate."
Senator Jones denounced the adminis
tration for preaching a united Ameri
canism and at the same time discrim
inating between American citizens be
cause of their birth
Champions Alien-Born Citizens.
"While we have the right to insist
upon an undivided allegiance and un
diluted Americanism on the part of !
those who have had American citizen- ;
ship conferred upon them, do they not i
have the right to be treated by the
government as American citizens in the i
fullest sense of the word?" said Sen
ator Jones.
"This administration has repeatedly
denounced hyphenated Americans, but it
has done more to destroy, an undivided
Americanism, it has done more to be
little American citizenship, and it has
done more to justify hyphenated Amer
icanism than any other agency. It has
denied to American citizens the rights
and privileges guaranteed to them un
der the Constitution purely on account
of their nativity.
Instance Is Cited.
'/Under date of April 24, 1916, the
Secretary of War issued an order di
recting the discharge of certain men
in the service of the United States' on
the United States steamer Ringgold. ,
Why were these men ordered dis
charged?
??Were they inefficient? No. Were
they charged with misconduct of any
kind? No. Were they dangerous men?
No. Had they shown that they were !
not to be trusted? No. Were they i
seeking to advance the interests of
some other nation above those of the
United States? No. Werethey aliens? ]
No. i
"They were American citizens. Why t
were they discharged? Solely because i
they were not native-born. It is in
teresting to note that none of these 1
discharged American citizens was born 1
in any of the nations now at war." r
Senator Jones read a letter signed c
by Capt. H. D. Colby, commanding the I
Ringgold, ifk which the captain stated 1
the only reason for the discharge was c
that the War Department "has just de
cided that foreign-born citizens of the i
United States shall no longer be em- 1
ployed as civilian employes on army 1
mine planters." <
AS GREAT STRIKE NEARS
EACH PARTY ANNOUNCES
POSITION TO THE PUBUC
Brotherhoods Oppose Legislation Along Plan of
Canadian Industrial Disputes Act, Saying .ijf
It Would Enslave Men Indefinitely. i
PRESIDENTS OF ROADS GIVE REASONS
FOR DECLINING MR. WILSON'S PROPOSAL
Dispute Statement That Society It Favorable to Eight-Hour Day
at This Time and Show Why Transportation
Conditions Make Plan Impractical.
r
Last-minute statements from the two parties to the great rail,
road controversy were issued this afternoon, and express their views
regarding the legislation President Wilson is asking from Congress
-this afternoon.
Statement by Brotherhood Heads.
The brotherhood heads. Garretson,
Stone, Lee and Carter, issued the fol
lowing statement explaining their op
position to any legislation along the
plan of the Canadian commission:
"Since the abolition of slavery no
more effectual medns has been devised
for insuring the bondage of the work
ingmen than the passage of compul
sory investigation acts of the character
of the Canadian industrial disputes act.
The writers speak from their personal
experience thereunder, as these organi
zations are all international In their
jurisdiction. To cite an actual occur
rence:
Cite Actual Occurrence.
"In 1910 the men upon eighty rail
ways in the eastern territory present
ed to the railway companies of that
territory a demand for increase in
wages. The companies refused to deal
concertedly with the proposition, and
it was therefore taken up witli the in
dividual roads. Three of the proper
ties were Canadian, and two days after
negotiation was opened, January 7, on
the first road in the United 8tates ne
gotiation opened on the three Canadian
properties. The negotiations in the
United States included federal media
tion in the first instance and arbitra
tion in the third case.
"On the 19th day of July following,
settlement was made on the last of the
seventy-seven American lines involved.
On the same date, at 6 p.m., a strike
took place on the Grand Trunk rail"
way, one of the Canadian railways, sat
tleraeiU. JM*t *r*f b*en. effected
on any one of the three, this growing
out of the delays which the employers
were able to interpose under the in
dustrial disputes act*
Advantage to Employer.
"Moreover, tihe period of investigation
is eternally utilised by the employer to
entrench himself in his effort to de
feat the demands of the men, no mat
ter how Just their cause may be, and
in a majority of instances where a ver
dict by an investigating commission
has been favorable to the men it has
been repudiated by the employer. In
consequence of this attitude, disregard
for and the ignoring of the provisions
of that law has led to placing thou
sands of men in the attitude ot law
breakers, and the passage of laws
which induce men to open violation
thereof is a deadly injury to a nation
because it breeds universal contempt
for law.
"In the present strife, if such an act
were passed, all that would be neces
sary would be for the power of attor
ney to be withdrawn from the national
conference committee of managers by
the individual roads to be created, or, if
only a limited number were provided
for, men would be compelled to remain ,
for years in involuntary servitude if
they obeyed the provisions of such a j
law."
Leaders of Brotherhood
Most Positively Decline
to Arbitrate Eight-Hour Day j
Positive declaration that the broth
erhood leaders have no intention of ar
bitrating the eight-hour working day
was contained in a statement given out
last evening by \V. G. L.ee, president
of the Brotherhood of Railway Train
"It seems evident," the statement
said, "from press reports that the rail
way companies represented here are
determined to force a strike rather
than accept the compromise settlement
offered by President Wilson.
"The organizations refuse positively
to arbitrate the question of an eight
hour d.ay, because we now have an ,
eight-hour day in effect on many south- j
ern and southwestern roads and do not j
propose to arbitrate whether we ?hall j
retain something that we have had for i
years and that we secured peacefully. I
"The railways' former claim that our .
request would cost $100,000,000 has been
split fifty fifty, and we are reminded of
the statement that 'figures won t lie,
but liars will figure/ The railways
know full well that the eight-hour day,
as offered by President Wilson would
not cost $20,000,000 per annum if prop
6We *are^sti 11 the guests of President
Wilson and will remain here.
House ami Senate Provide
by Concurrent Resolution
for Holding Joint Session
?
Concurrent resolutions for the joint
session of Congress were quietly adopt
ed today in House and Senate. Twenty
tive seats in the gallery were reserved
for the railroad presidents and twenty
live were reserved for the employes.
This was agreed to without dissent.
Representative Hill of Connecticut
said to the House that the public and
Congress had read in the newspapers
the statement which the President had
made to the railroad presidents, but had
not been able to read the statement of
the President to ttie railroad employes.
"I suggest," he said, "that before the
3ouse is called upon to act in this
natter that we may be allowed to read
he statement of the President to the
?ailroad employes."
A few minutes later Representative
idamson of Georgia, chairman of the
nterstate and foreign commerce com
nittee, told the House that the Presl
ient's statement to the railroad em
iloyes was substantially the same as
lis statement to the railroad presi
lents. ,
?"He had no secret which he is hold
ng from one side to the other," said
Hr. Adamson, "and I understand he will
ay his cards upon the table here to
lay." r . I
' Jt
Railway Presidents' Statement.
This statement to the publio
Issued by the committee of railway
presidents:
"We are unable after the most eartS*
est consideration to agree with the*pi!^
posal of the President of the Unl,UP
; States, which is that we accept w!tfc?
; out arbitration 'the substitution of <an
| eight-hour day for the present ten-new
I day in all of the existing: practices and
agreements.* This is the main point w?
controversy and we cannot surrender!*
without an opportunity to be heard IB
the form of fair arbitration.
"Wc do not assent to the statement
that 'the eight-hour day now undoupft*
edly has the sanction of the judgment
of society in its favor.' We believe tMC
society has not yet recorded its
inent upon the subject.
Conditions Control Service.
"We are not In this controversy, MjWr
ever, dealing with the conditions reltt
ing to the eight-hour day in the incUgr
trial world.
The difference between the eignt^
hour day in business and manufactur
ing interests and in the railroad tiirtn^
service day has been fully explaispn*
The railroad day is a basis for comput
ing pay and overtime, tfce lengtlj -JJI
daily service being controlled by
able conditions. ?;-*?
"The demands involved in this con
troversy have not been presentea?-,*in
our judgment, for the purpose of nxinff
a definite daily period ot labor
reduction in the existing houri, ot Mr
bor or change in methods ,jr
operation, but lor the real pumow.f,
accomplishing ai increase in *?P" ?*
approximately 1100.000,000 per annum,
or Si per cent, tor the men in raliray
freight train and yard service repreaee^
ed by the labor organizations In IB?
-After careful examination of tbo '
facts and patient" and continuous confu
tation with the inference commute? ot
managers and among wnelm m
reached a clear understanding of U?e
magnitude of th< questions and of
serious consequences to the
to the public involved in a decision ot
them.
Trustees for the Public.
??As trustees for the public serr#?
by our lines and for the great mass of
the less powerful employes (not loss
than SO per cent of the whole numbef)
interested in the railroad wage fund
as trustees also for the millions of pop
ple that have Invested their savings ant
capital in the bonds and stock of thsS4
properties, and who through the saving
! banks, trust companies and
companies are vitally interested to
extent of milliors of doling in the ifc
tegrlty and solvency of the railroads?*
the country, we cannot in conacUtty
surffender without a hearing the prin
ciple involved nor undertake to IransMjC
the enormous cost that will result to
the transportation of the commerce of
,h'TheUe'ght-hour day without punltlfe
overtime involves an annual in?;res??
approximating in the aggregate *?V
000.000. and an Increase qf mo?
'0 per cent in the pay of men already
the most highly paid in the transpotjn
''"TliVultimate cost to the railroads
an admission in this manner of tM
principle under contention can"?*
be estimated; the effect upon the effl
clencv of the transportation of tbj.
country now already under severe twt
under the tide of business now meV-_
and at a time when more insteiBff
I^f less effort is reo.uired for the pub^
lie welfare, would be] harmful bey^^
calculation. . U
Effect Upon Industries. .
"The widespread effect upon the fe
dustries Of the cotfntry as a whole^i
beyond measure or appraisement at tills
time, and we agree with the InslsUmt
and widespread public concern over th*
gravity of the situation and the
sequence of surrender by the r?ilr<>?*8
in this emergency. r??
-In like manner we ar^deeply Ug.
.??,d with the sense of our r^?Py.
siblHty to maintain and keer. open t?
arteries of transportation, which
of' c^u^.^
ruption ?f ' presented have t
a^mone^O" qSMtlons'lnvolv^d* andtS
provoke it.
Say Questions Should Be Arbitrated.
"The questions involved are in our.flt
spectful judgment, eminently suitable for
ttTP calm investigation and decision b^ f?J?
public through the agency of fair ?M
tration, and cannot be disposed of, to the
public satisfaction, in any other manotr.
The decision of a commission or boardor
arbitration, having the public confident*,
will be accepted by the public and the*0?
cial and financial rearrangements mad*
necessary thereby will be undertake*
the public, but ir. no less deliberate W*P
0r"The railroads of the country CMJ
,ot under present cond,t,on. as?.Bj?
Kia enormous increase in tneir ejp*
? if imposed upon them it woilU'
'nvolve man?C.^rly financial embrtp
?assment and bankruptcy and inip^B
he power of ail to maintain tinfr
redU and the integrity of their
?uiltiesT The immediate Increase
^followed by other lncrea*?J
vould be inevitable would subsl
Ully appropriate the present pur.
nc power of the railroadsand dl
him from extending and iropr.
heir facilities and equipment, to
