P'ppww?58mi"iii"flHm9ii!ij nw!5irH
TFINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL.. II. NO. 299
uenmg
NIGHT
EXTRA
,V
PIULADELPHIA, TUESDAY, AUGUST 29, 101G.
Constant, 1016, i xna Fcblio Lsdoii Courinr.
PBICE O!N"J0 OBSTT
t
c
IP
!tf
CZAR'S FORCES BEGIN DRIVE
AGAINST BULGARIA; RUMANIAN
TROOPS MOVE ON HUNGARY
Slav Army Crosses Bessarabia Line in
the Direction of Sofia 160,000
Men Hammer Passes Lead
ing Into Transylvania
r- ,
Allies Commence Offensive to Isolate Turkey and Redeem
Serbia Aim to Cut Oriental Railway Bulgarians
Blow Up Danube Bridges to Halt
Enemy's Advance
ROME, Aug. 29. Complete evacuation of Montenegro and
Albania by the Austrians will be the first result of Rumania's
entrance into the war, Italian critics asserted today. The early
collapse of the dual monarchy, possibly by the end of the present
year, was predicted by a majority of the Italian war experts.
THE HAGUE, Aug. 29. Despite recent German assertions,
Rumania has a tremendous store of munitions for a campaign
against Austria or Bulgaria, according to Bucharest dispatches
today. For the last three months the Rumanian munition plants
have been operating day and night.
Developments are quickly shaping themselves on the Balkan and Transyl
vanian fronts as a result of Rumania's entrance into the war on the side of
the Allies. A largo Russian force has crossed the Rumanian frontier from
Bessarabia and is driving toward Bulgaria in nn attempt to cut the Oriental
Railway and thus isolate Constantinople from Berlin. Rumanian forces number
ing 160,000 arc trying to smash their way through the passes of the Transyl
vanian Alps to invade the plains of Hungary.
On tho other hand, heavy German reinforcements aro being rushed to aid
the Austrians, who must now withstand tho increased pressure due to the quick
movement of Rumanian troops.
Tho Bulgarians are blowing up bridges across the Danube in anticipation
of a combined Russian and Rumanian attack, while the allied forces at Salonica
are marking time, awaiting tho Russo-Rumanian advance and ready to launch
a great offensive as- soon as the Slav and Rumanian armies enter Bulgaria.
Reports from Petrograd state that Rumania has already put in tho field 600,000
men, supported by 1000 guns.
Tho 'main Rumanian army will be commanded by General Ilesko. Field
Marshal von Mackenseri will lead the German-Bulgarian forces. Pitted against
him will be General Sarrail, supremo commander of the allied iorccs at baiomca,
nnd General" Alcxeieff, chief of tho Russian General Staff. With almost
kaleidoscopic speed tho armies in tho Balkan theater are thus adjusting them
selves to tho new situation, preparatory to a campaign that will probably prove
one of tho greatest war classics in history.
Greece may join the Entente Allies at any moment, reports from European
capitals, including Berlin, indicate. The resignation of Herr von Jagow, German
Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Under Secretary Zimmerman a3 a result of
their failure to keep Rumania neutral, is reported from Dutch diplomatic circles.
RUSSIANS LAUNCH GREAT DRIVE
IN BALKANS; ENTER RUMANIA
VIENNA, Aug. 29.
Large Russian forces aro reported, In a
dispatch from Budapest, to have crossed
tho Rumanian frontier In tho direction of
Bulgaria, apparently with tho purpose of
cutting tho Oriental Railway connecting
Germany and Turkey.
This Slav army consists, tho dispatch
states, of several Infantry divisions, a
strong cavalry division and artillery that
PRESIDENT SIGNS
ARMY, NAVY AND
PHILIPPINE BILLS
Cabinet and Other Members of
Official Family Witness Cere-
monyThat Makes Them
Laws
'PRAISES ALL MEASURES
' WASHINGTON, Aug. 29. President
Wilson today Blgned tho army bill, the navy
bill and the- Philippine bill at tho White
House In tho presence of Cabinet officers
and other members of hla official family.
The army bill appropriates $267,698,530 for
ifinanclng tho new army of 216.D0O peace
strength, called for under tho Hay-Cham-berlaln
army reorganisation bill. The
naval bill appropriates 1313,384,389 and
provides a three-year building program of
157 warships, Including 10 battleships and
six cruisers, four of each of which aro to
ba begun this year, Tho Philippine bill
provides a. more autonomous form of gov
ernment for the Islands.
(The army bill Is the same the Presi
dent vetoed, with the exception that the
section of the articles of war to which the
President objected was eliminated, and In
that shape the bill was repassed.)
In signing the bills the President made a
short speech, saying;
1 think that the whole country will feel
that this Congress has accomplished a. very
jemarkahlo part of the program of na
tional defense. This army bill means that
the finances of the. nation are to stand be
hind the reorganization of the army and its
use for adequate national defense.
The navy bill is a very remarkable
measure. Never before by one single act
jf legislation has so much been done lor
the creation of an adequate navy. Our
navy has steadily grown. I think tho devel
opment of that arm. of force baa always
bad the enthusiastic support of the nation.
The Philippine bill excites peculiar feel
ings In mo, becausa there have been times
when the people of the Islands doubted our
Intention to be liberally Just to them.
hope and believe that this bllj Is a sufficient
earnest to them of our real intentions. Jt 1
very satisfactory advance In our policy
of extending to them genuine self-government
and control of their own anaira.
"The last bill, the bill of Jading bill, I be
lieve will be a most substantial assistance
to the right conduct of both the soawaerelal
s4 financial business .of the country.
Includes heavy guns. Most of tho Rus
sians are tried veterans.
BERLIN, Aug. 29.
Rumanlnn forces estimated at 160,000
men aro trying to batter their way through
the passes of tho Transyhanlan Alps to
overrun tho pla'ns of Hungary.
German and Austro-Hungarlan soldiers.
Continued on Pace Flvt. Column Two
WILL OPEN SCHOOLS
OCTOBER 2; FIVE MORE
Dffi OF BABY PLAGUE
Health and Education Authori
ties Believe Epidemic Will
Have Subsided by Date
, Named
GIRARD COLLEGE VICTIM
New Paralysis Cases
Reported Since Midnight
Deaths in Philadelphia 5
New cases in the city 1
Number of deaths in this city
since epidemic started ' 137
Number of cases reported in
Philadelphia to date 465
Number of deaths in New York
city to date 1857
Number of cases in New York
city 7835
All schools will open on October S,
Officials of the Department of Health and
Charities and representatives of tho Board
of Education, who conferred today regard
ing tho possible effect of the Infantile
paralysis epldemlo upon the opening of the
school term, believe that tho disease will be
well under control by the time mentioned,
It was announced at the conclusion of the
conference that public schools, private
schools, parochial schools, and business
colleges would be permitted to open on that
date.
The conference was attended by Director
Krusen, Assistant Director Harry Mace.
Chief Vogelson, of the Bureau of Health;
John Wanamaker, John M. Carter, superin
tendent of public schools; Henry R. Ed
monds, president of the Board of Education,
and others. The decision to open on Octo
ber 2 was unanimous. This Is two -weeks
later than the date suggested by Health
Commissioner Dixon.
Five more children succumbed today to
Infantile paralysis.
Alfred Stick, who developed the disease
In Glrard College, died thls-mornlng despite
the fcerolc efforts made to save him. The
l&frti utlon is now under quarantine and tho
boys at the college, realms? ttt seriousness
C9Bttsa n tttft Cetauui Oam
LAWS URGED BY PRESIDENT
TO AVERT RAILWAY STRIKE
1. EMPOWERING THE PRESIDENT IN CASE OP MILITARY
NECESSITY TO DRAFT MEN INTO SERVICE FOR THE MILITARY
OPERATION OF RAILROADS.
2. A law providing the eight-hour dny.
3. A law providing a commission to investigate all facts relative to tho
explication of tho eight-hour day to the railroads.
4. A law investing powers In tho Interstate Commerce Commission of
considering wage increases in fixing rates.
5'. Providing n commission similar to that under tho Canndlan disputes
act to Investigate all disputes, and during tho inquiry to prohibit strikes and
lockouts.
6. Enlargement and administrative reorganization of the Interstate
Commerce Commission to deal with its duties "with a promptness nnd thor
oughness which are with its present constitution and means of action vir
tually impossible."
"SAFEGUARD LIFE OF NATION,"
WILSON URGES CONGRESS IN
PLEA TO AVERT RAIL STRIKE
President Urges Laws
to Secure Permanent
Railroad Peace
FOR MILITARY RULE
Favor Such Control Pending
Remedial Legislation That
Will Prove Effectual
By ROBERT J. BENDER
WASHINGTON, Aug. 29 A3 a dramatic
climax to his unprecedented negotiations
to head oft the most disastrous labor war
that over threatened tho United States,
President Wilson this afternoon appeared
beforo a joint session of Congress and urged
legislation "to safeguard tho llfo and In
terests of tho nation."
Ho said ho urged tho legislation "not In
hasto or merely aa a means of meeting n
present emergency, but as permanent and
necessary additions to the law, suggested,
Indeed, by circumstances we had hoped
never to see. but Imperative as well as
Just If such emergencies are to be prevented
In the future."
PRESIDENT'S RECOMMENDATIONS.
Ho recommended:
First. Immediate provision for tho
enlargement and administrative re
organization of the Intcrstato Com
merce Commission, enabling tho com
mission to deal with duties now de
volving upon It, "with n promptness
and thoroughness which aro with Its
present constitution and means fr
action virtually Impossible."
Second. Establishment of an eight
hour day aB tho legal bnsls alike of
work and of wages In tho employment
of all railroad employes engaged In (
operating trains In Intcrstato trans
portation. Tho time for tho Institution
of this law Is to be determined by Con
gress.
Tho President suggested no date.
Third. Authorization of the appoint-v
ment by tho President of a commission
to study results In the application of
tho eight-hour to railroad operation,
alike for the men and for tho roads j
tho Investigators to repot t to C-uisrcss
at the earliest possible date, Imu with
out recommendation as to 1 .islatlve
action.
Tourth. Approval by Congress of
consideration by the Interstate Com
merce Commission of freight rate In
creases to meet such additional ex
penditures by tho .roads as are ren
dered necessary by adoption of the
eight-hour day.
Fifth. Amendment of the Federal
law which provides for the mediation,
conciliation and arbitration of such
controversies aa tho present by adding
a provision that in case of methods
of accommodation now provided should
fall, a full publlo lnreitlratlon ihall
be IntlKuted nnd, completed before n.
tribe or lockout may Imrfully be at
tempted. Sixth. Empowering the President,
In case of military necessity, to take
control of such portions and rolling
stock of tho railways as may be re
quired for military use and to operate
them for military purposes, with au
thority to draft Into the military serr
Ico of tho country inch train crews and
administrative officials as circum
stances require.
NATION FACING CALAMITY.
The President outlined in detail his ef
forts to effect a settlement of the pending
dispute through friendly negotiations. His
efforts, he said, had "resulted In com
plete deadlock."
Now the country faces, bo said, a great
national calamity with "cities cut off from
food supplies and the commerce of the
nation paralyzed.'! Countless thousands will
In all likelihood be brought, It may be, 'to
the very point of starvation."
Mediation under the existing laws has
failed, he admitted, and arbitration has been
rendered Impossible "by the attitude of tho
men."
He said that he had offered the eight-
hour day as a basis for agreement because
the "whole spirit of the time and the pre
ponderant evidence of recent economla ex
perience spoke out for t,"
In the face .pf indications that the rail
roads would "ultimately be obliged to accept
tho eight-hour day by concerted action of
organised labor, backed by the favorable
judgment of society," they have declined to
accept tikis means of settlement, he said.
The railroads fear the hostile Influence
of shippers and they apparently feel no con
fidence that the Interstate Commerce Com
mission could withstand the objections that
would be made, the President said,
"They do not care to rely upon the
friendly aosaurances of the Congress or the
President. They have thought It best that
they should be forced to yield, If they must
yield not by counsel, but by the suffering
of tho country."
The President, tonight, t 8 o'clock, will
go to the Capttol again to confer with
Speaker Clark, Representative Kitcbln. floor
leader of the House i Representative Mann,
Republican leader la the Hue, and Cbalr-
Osgttaw a rare Two, Ctilsun Tw
fF"
rhoto by Harris i. Ewlnr.
FRANCIS G. NEWLANDS
Upon tho shoulders of Senator
Ncwlands rests the burden of Con
gressional antistrikc legislation.
Senator Newlnnds represents Ne
vada, which State ha3 less rail
road mileage than the city of
Philadelphia.
ARMSTRONG LOSES
TO DAVIS IN BIG
TENNIS TOURNEY
Philadelphia! Is Eliminated
in First Round at Forest
Hills, Three Sets to One
JOHNSON WINS A DEFAULT
Bu a Staff Correspondm t
FOREST HILLS, N. Y Aug 2S. Joseph
Armstrong of Philadelphia, ias eliminated
In the first round of tho national champion
ships hero today by Willis E. Davis, of Cal
ifornia. Armstrong was considered a possi
ble winner and his defeat came as a big
surprise. The scores were 8-G, 6-1, 1-6 and
6-1.
At the outset ttwas apparent that a
brlllant and hard-fought match was to result
from the clash of the Fenn student and the
Merlon star, Slnco playing his last match
In the Quaker City, Davis has become a
national figure In tennis, and at tho present
time Armstrong is almost as prominent.
The Callfornlan, holder of the national clay
court championship, forced Armstrong to do
all the leg-work In tho opening sets, but
Armstrong proved speedy and then some.
Davis captured the first two sets at 8.6,
6-4, breaking through Armstrong's service
once In each, but In the third set, tho
Merlon player broke through Davis twice
and won at 6-1, So when they retired to
the clubhouse for the prescribed seven
minute rest. Davis led by 2 sets to 1.
When the third set began nearly 1000
spectators were seated In the stands or
scattered around the grounds. Armstrong
gained a decided advantage by breaking
through Davis In tho fourth game, which
went to four deuce points, giving the Phil-
adelphlan the lead at 4-1. Armstrong had
the set well In hand, when, after winning
Continued on Faro Kl(n. Column Sire
HE'S A
BEAK
Hamilton Scott's Grizzly Hug Results
in Nipping Oft a Bit of Wife's
Ear Twas All in Love
It wasn't a light at all. It was a mistake.
Hamilton Scott bit a piece off his wife's ear
because ho loves her so.
Thus was the mystery of the ear-bltlng at
3024 Alter street, last night, cleared up to
day before Magistrate Baker, at the Twen
tieth and Federal streets station. Scott
was hugging his wife when he accidentally
bit off a piece of her ear. Physicians at the
Polyclinic Hospital sewed It back, Scott
was discharged.
Mack Buys Star Third Baseman
YERNON, Cai, Aug 29 Coast experts
say that the Athletics got a live one when
they bought Third Baseman Ray Bates
from the Yernon Pacific Coast League
club. Bates was originally Cleveland's
property, and was sent to the coast farm
at Portland for development Bates Is 24
years old, bats and throws right-handed
and la hitting 294 and fielding 931 He
Is a. brainy player and a hustler. Hla home
ts la Fatertoa, N. 3.
JcU jL A
FRIGAR'S BAIL PLEA POSTPONED;
BOLAND'S COMPANIONS HELD
The hearing on the application for release on ball of Elite D.
Frigar, chnrged with shooting nnd killing Edwaid Bolaud in Fair
mount Park last Tuesday night, was postponed until 2:30 toinoirow.
Walter M. Bioughton, 40C.2 Canton street, and Martin Sadler, 15B
Arnold street, were held under ?1000 bonds each by Magistrate Beaton
on charges of impersonating an officer, attempt to hold up and assault
and battery, Wfco charges were mad? against tfoepj by Trlgar.
106 KILLED IN DRESDEN ANTI-WAR RIOTS
LONDON, Aug. 20. A Central ( News dispatch says It Is re
ported In Holland that 100 persons were killed in Dresden in riots
caused by the sentenco of Karl Licbknecht, tho Socialist. The crowds
shouted, "Down with wnrl"
120,000 LEATHER WORKERS STRIKE
NEW YOHK, Aug. 20. Demanding n 48-hour week and 10 per
cent increase in wages for those now getting less than $18 n week, 5
per cent raise for all getting more than $18 nnd 15 per cent raise for
ull piece workeis, 120,000 leather workers went on strike today. '
EELMONT RACING RESULTS
Tirst race, 3;year-olds and up, $700 added, 6 furlongs straight
Xeo Chares, 123, Keogh, 1 to 2, 1 to 6, out, won; Bayberry Candle, 121,
Butwell, 18 to 5, 7 to 10, 1 to 4, second; Mont D,Or II, 110, Notter,
7 to 1, 0 to G, 3 to 5, thiid. Time, 1.11 1-S. .
AMERICAN LEAGUE
DETROIT.lstg 1 0020200 4-9 120
NEW YORK O OOOOI OO 0-17 1
st. Louis 2 o o o-o 3 o 0.0- 5 6 3-
BOSTON.lstg O 03Q0QQ0O-3 S Z
NATIONAL LEAGUE
BOST6N,lstg 1 4OOO0O1 O-6 12 2
PITTSBURGH O lOOOOOOO-l 82
ALTOONA CARMEN GET SECOND INCREASE THIS YEAR
AL.TOONA, Pa,, Aug. 29. For tho second time this year 3000 motormen and
conductors employed by tho Altoona and Logan Valley Electric Railway Company
will receive a wage Increase. Beginning September 1 the now hour rate for first,
second, third, fourth and fifth year men will be 22, 24, 25J4. 264. 2VA cents, respec
tlvely. In addition, free transportation will be givn wives and mothers of employes.
BETHLEHEM TO BUILD NEW BLAST FURNACE
HARRISBUna, Aug. 29. The Bethlehem Steel Company today awarded a con
tract for the erection of an additional 800-ton capacity blast furnace for Its Steelton
plant. The Raymond Concrete Pilo Company, of New York, will build the founda
tion, and the structural work will be done by the construction department of the
Bethlehem Company
WAR DEPARTMENT RETAINS STUDENTS IN GUARD
"WASHINGTON, Aug. 29, The War Department today temporarily suspended
an order releasing, college students from the National Guard organizations on Sep
tember 1. This order does not apply to military units composed entirely of college
students, which will be disbanded on September 1.
"ALL GIRLS WARDS OP MY COURT," SAYS MacNEILLE
"All girls of Philadelphia are wards of my court," said Judge Raymond Mac
Nellie In criticizing a clergyman who protested he didn't know a certain American
girl was a ward of the Municipal Court when he married her on July 21 to a China
man. Judge MacNellle called the clergyman to court and severely rebuked him.
The name of the man was not made public.
SWISS TO REORGANIZE ARMY OP COLOMBIA
BERNE, Aug, 29. A commission of officers of the Swiss Army will soon leave
for Colombia to reorganize the army of that republic.
JAPAN ASKS CHINA TO PAY POR ATTACK ON TROOPS
TOKIO, Aug. 29. Demands that China make a settlement for tho attack made
upon a Japanese military force by Chinese soldiers at Cheng-Chla-Tun on August
14 were drafted by the Cabinet of Japan today and immediately transmitted to the
Japanese Minister at Pekln for presentation. It was said at the Foreign Office that
the demands were made and that a settlement would be reached without a crisis
between the countries,
(Dispatches reporting the clash between Japanese and Chinese soldiers said
that many of the former were killed. Japan has always characterized its demands
on China as "moderate.")
FRANCE IMPORTS CHINESE TO MAKE MUNITIONS
PARIS, Aug, tJ9. One thousand Chinese laborers have arrived at Lyons, They
constitute the first contingent to be brought to France for work In munition
factories.
SIX ALLIED CRUISERS ON WATCH FOR U-LINER
NEW LONDON, Aug. 29. Patrolling the waters between the coast and the
Nantucket Light Vessel are she Allied cruisers. A sword, fisherman in last night
reported sighting the war vessels stretched out across the shoals. They com
manded the waters from Bankaty Head to the light vessel.
NAVY YARD FAVOREBJFOR BUILDING OF BATTLESHIP
A battleship will probably be built at the Philadelphia. Navy Yard out of the
biff navy appropriation, -which provides for the building' of eight capital ships,
msons other. Press of -work in private shipyards and at Government plants, too,
U so great that the chances of League Island appear very good, it Is reported from
"Waablnstoa.
JtC A
NURSE TO TELL
STORY ON STAND
TO SAVE FRIGAR
Miss Sykes Coming to
Help Fiance Seek
" Bail
WILL SAY HE FIRED
TO SAFEGUARD HER
Young Engineer's Assertion
Ruffians Attacked Him
Will Be Sustained t
VICTIM'S FRIENDS HELD
High Points in Frigar Case
As Time for Hearing Ncars
TVTISS AMANDA SYKES, 20-ycar-!"
old fiancee of Ellis D. Frigar,
returns from Atlantic City to testify
in his behalf.
Several witnesses called for hear
ing to bo held in Common Pleas
Court, No. 5, at 2 o'clock today.
Testimony, of persons who have
had encounters with gangs in Fair
mount Park may be offered.
Franklin Spencer Edmonds, at
torney for Frigar, will argue for
writ of habeas corpus and release of
client in ball to await trial for shoot
ing Edward Boland week ago to
night. Companions of Boland when ho
was killed also will be in court.
Miss Amanda Sykes will be a principal
witness this afternoon In Common Pleas
Court No. 6 In defense of her nance, Ellis
D. Frigar, when he, through his attorney,
pleads for freedom on ball while awaiting
trial for shooting Edward Boland a week
ago tonight In Nelll drive, Falrmount Park.
She wlh return from Atlantic Cltywhera
she went to Bee her parents directly be
fore Frigar decided to surrender to the
police.
Before she went to Atlantlo City. Mist
Sykes made a statement to Detective Wil
liam Belshaw. The detective said her story
was substantially the same as that of
Frigar. '
The detectives said she would not be
arrested, .unless it should be shown, that
she waj equally responsible with Frigar.
OTHER HOLD-UP 'VICTIMS.
Several persons who hao been held up
by gangs of young men In Falrmount Park,
spme of them robbed( some of them shot
at and others having had encounters In
the protection of women companions, will
testify when Frlgar's hearing Is called.
Two witnesses may be C. W. Hess, 93!
South Forty-ninth street, and Miss Bessie
McCarthy, 622 North Thirty-fifth street,
who were held up In the Park three months
ago. There Is a bullet BtlU In the door
of Hcss's automobile, the police say, evi
dencing a narrow escape ho nnd Miss
McCarthy had from three young men who
held them up and robbed them. Detective
Nell McDermott was out today trying tp
find Hess to summon him as a witness.
ANOTHER CAR HALTED.
Another man who was returning with
his wife from the theater was stopped by
two men In the park recently.' He also may
be a witness this afternoon.
The men fired nt him, the police say, and
he and his wife escaped only because their
chauffeur speeded up the car directly at
the men. making them Jump to the road
side for safety.
Walter M. Broughton, 4652 Canton street,
and Martin Sadler, 165 Arnold street, com
panions of Boland when he was shot, have
been arrested and accused of attempting to
hold up Frigar.
Additional accusations of Impersonator
an officer and assault were made against
them on the strength pt Frlgar's statement
that Broughton and Sadler were leaders
with Boland In an attack upon him and
Miss Amanda Sykes, his fiancee.
Frigar was held In Central Station last
night. The turnkey said he slept soundly
ail ulcht. not awakening until 7 o'clock this
jtjornlng when his breakfast was served.
After breakfast. Frigar was taicen v
Magistrate Pennock's chambers, where he
made and signed affidavits covering the cir
cumstances of the shooting,
HIS MOTHER NOT AFRAID.
"I am not afraid of the outcome. I be
lieve my son will be freed," said Mrs. John
Frigar, mother of the joung civil engineer,
today. "I know that the story he tells t
true and that he loves Miss Sykes."
Mr. and Mrs. John Frigar, parents of
the man now In police custody. Jive on
Bethel road, a mile and a half west of
Boothwyn. It was there that young Frigar
went to school until he was It years old.
"My son came out here Wednesday morn
ing," said Mrs. Fr'gar, "and told me pf
what had happened In the Park, He said
Continued en fate Teur, Column 8s
THEWEATHER
FOBECAST
For Philadelphia and vfcfHy ,
Partly cloudy and slightly wm
tonight and Wedne$dayr ltghtt wta4J
winds tonight becoming wihwl$
Wfdnesday.
XEhGTHT QV BAY,
Sua rle. .. B3 .m.jllooa rtw. . $&
Bun teti, . B.ST 9.HMMOOS ssuUM.lSdf jmm,
DUXAWAKK BITES TIB CX'HW,
CHESTHtTT ST8EST-
2X, wur. S;H ,w,iliw -wtr amt-m,
TSurmtAtms as sack hwm.
8t 91 lOtlil
igrmifrjrrrHt
esTWTSrS.
