THE ARIZONA . REFUEL
x AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
ICAB
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
8 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, AUGUST 29, 1916
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 103
STRIKE
CALLS
FOR
WA
OUT
AMR
J0
I
AUSTRIA
r, I
1
WAR WITH HER
f (By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
f Rumania has thrown in her lot with the entente allies by declaring war
on Austria-Hungary, and almost simultaneously Germany has announced
that she is at war with Rumania. J
Already the troops of King Ferdinand are seeking entry into the plains of
'Transylvania through the eastern Carpathians toward Kronstadt, the chief
city in Transylvania, and in the direction of Hermannstadt, evidently in an
endeavor to press northward through Transylvania toward the Bukowina and
Ga'icia borders and to take in the rear the Austro-Germans trying to pre
vent the Russians from entering Hungary,
Nothing has come through to indicate what preparation has been
made by the Bulgarians to offset a probable attack by the Rumanians along
the Danube front or a possible attempt by the Russians at invasion by
means of the Danube and through Dobruja or by the Black Sea. It is esti
mated that Rumania will be able to throw nearly a million men into the
field.
Except in the Macedonia sector, little important fighting is reported
from the fronts. Along the line where the Teutonic allies are in contact
with the Serbians, British and French, Berlin and Paris report additional
sains for their respective forces. Be rlin records the capture of heights
south of Zbrosko by the Bulgarians a nd the repulse of Serbian counter
attacks on Mount Seganska, while Paris says the Serbs have made consid
erable progress near Vetrenika and have repulsed with heavy losses Bul
garian attacks on the roads from Baiiicat to Ostrovo. Paris admits, how
ever, Bulgarian occupation of positions abandoned by the Greeks west of
Kavala on the Aegean. , '
Artillery engagements and mine operations have characterized fighting in
- France and Belgium. The French report further progress east of Delville
wood and near the Mouquete farm in the Somme region, while London reports
the shelling of British positions between Pozieres and the Thiepval wood
and reciprocal bombardments at other points. A German attack near Fleury,
failed. . I
From the Riga region to the Carpathian passes there have been various
isolated engagements between Russians and Austro-Germans, but no notable
successes. Fighting is in progress between Russians and Turks in the Lake
Van region and north of Bitlis. In the latter region the Turks have been
driven back by a Russian counter attack, losing men and guns.
Aside from bombardments by the Austrians along the Isonzo front, the
ituation in the Austro-Italian theater remains unchanged.
' Rumania Casts Her Lot With the Allies
DECLARES SHE IS AT
Tli
IT
PORTSMOUTH CHOSEN
FOR MEXICAN CONFAB
Republican A. P. Leased Wire finance and head of the Mexican com-
WASHINGTON, Aug. 28. The , mission, arrived at Vera Cruz today
American-Mexican joint commission , enroute north. He is accompanied by
will meet at Portsmouth, N. H., prob- ' James Linn Rogers, special agent of
ably Wednesday or Thursday of next the state department in Mexico City,
week. The day will be set by the com- ! who will give the American commis
missioners themselves at a preliminary sioners the benefit of his knowledge of
conference to be held in New York the situation.
Monday. Eliseo Arredondo, Mexican j Secretary Lansing and Mr. Arredondo
ambassador-designate, and Secretary . both will be present at the meeting in
Lansing reached an agreement as to New York. The commissioners and
the place of meeting to be. The their parties probably will go to Ports
American commissioners preferred mouth on a navay vessel. The Ameri
Portsmouth and Mr. Arredondo ac- cans will take with them a complete
ceded. ' corps of state department aides to care
Luis Cabrera, Mexican minister of for the departmental record.
PRESIDENT WILL GO BEFORE
CONGRESS TO ASK LEGISLATION
HOPING TO AVERT STRIKE
T
CHILD PLAGUE
ITW
4 Rumania Declares War
1 PARIS, Aug. 28. Rumania has de
clared war against Austro-Hungary,
Kays a Havas dispatch from Berne,
Switzerland, which declares that the
Wolff agency at Berlin made the of
ficial announcement.
Rumania's decision to enter the war
was reached at a meeting of the crown
council held at Bucharest, says a Havas
dispatch from Geneva.
The Wolff agency announces that the
Oerman federal council was convoked
immediately after the decision became
known. 1
one-half the normal.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. Aug. 28. Health au
thorities Jiere who believe their fight
against the epidemic of infantile par
alysis is almost won, were encouraged
further tonight by the announcement
that more cases were discharged from
hospitals today than were received.
Thirty-nine patients were returned to
their homes, whereas only thirty-six
were admitted to hospitals.
The first case to develop in a home
for children since the epidemic began
! was reported today by St. Joseph's
1 Home, Staten Island. The child had
I been in the home since July 5.
The state department oi neaitn nas
a campaign to obtain blood
Germany Declares War
BERLIN, Aug. 28. (Via London).
Germany has declared war on Rumania.
German government circles have ex
pected some action by Rumania for
nearly two weeks. It was hoped though
that Rumania might reconsider the step
taken yesterday.
It -was known that the entente pro
posed using Rumanian territory for a
Russian advance against Austria-Hungary
and Bulgaria. Rumania, it was
argued, would in that event, considering
the Rumanian antipathy toward Austria-Hungary,
join the forces fighting
the central powers. It is felt here that
Rumania can not avoid war with all
central powers, should RussiiTn troops
advance through her territory.
Rumania's declaration of war against
AuHtria-Hungary was without marked
ertect on the Bourse today. Some war
babies" like the stocks of arms and am
munition concerns reacted sharply, but
most quotations hardly changed.
Semi-official statements today ex
pressed the belief that the influence on
Germany's food problem would not be
considerable. Grain contracts for the
1915 crop already have been filled
largely and the less on imports of the
1916 crop will not be severely felt, in
view of Germany's reported excellent
home crop. '
Owing to the doubtful attitude of the
Rumanian government, the authorities
in charge of Germany s food supplies
completed their plans some' time ago for
reeding the population for the next
twelve months without the assistance
of Rumania. The grain consumption of
orewerles has been reduced to below
First Clashes.
VIENNA, Aug. 28. (Via London.) 'begun
The first clashes between troops of Ru- 1 from persons who have had the disease
mania and the central powers occurred with which to prepare the human serum
last night in several western and east-, to be used in the treatment of cases.
ern frontier mountain passes of Hun- I 1
gary, says an -official-statement given I Epidemic en Wane.
out here today. The Rumanian at- I ALBANY, N. Y., Aug. Z Indications
tacks are described as "treacherous." that the epidemic of infantile paralysis
Rumanian prisoners were taken. was on the wane in the state was noted
Advance guards came into contact at by officials of the state department of
Rothenthurm pass, fifteen miles south health today. Examination of health
of Hermannstadt, Transylvania, and In statistics showed that the epidemic ap
the passes south of Kranstadt (Brasso) i parently reached its crest the third
the statement adds. I week in August and in most of the
Kronstadt in Hermannstadt. to-1 counties
ward which the official commur.ica-1 showed
tion Austria indicates Rumanians are i cases,
advancing, are two or the moat lm-
COMMISSIONERS
AT BORDER Oil
TO CONFER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LA ft EDO. Texas, Aug., 28. Igna-
cio Bonillas. and Alberto J. Pani, two
members or the Mexican commission
who will confer with the American
commission on the border difficul
ties, between Mexico and the United
States reached Nuevo Laredo, oppos
ite here, tonight. They will spend
tonight in the Mexican town and will
leave tomorrow noon for the east.
The Mexican commissioners said
their trip from Mexico Citv was un
eventful. Neither would discuss the
instructions given by the foreign of
fice for their participation in the
conference
the forces of General Domingo Ar
rieta took eighteen prisoners who
were immediately tried by a drum
head court- martial and shot, accord
ing to official reports received today
Po
RDERS BANK EXAMINED:
IS FATALLY SHOT.
TEAGUE, Texas, Aug. 28. John
S. Patterson of Austin, state com
missioner of insurance and banking,
was shot and probably fatally
wounded late today in the lbbby
of the Farmers' and Merchants'
bank when he started to post a
notice that the institution should
be examined. J. E. McKinnon,
state bank examiner, was fired at
three times, but no bullets took
effect.'' After the shooting, officers
arrested T. R. Watson, president of
the bank and his two eons, W. R.
Watson, cashier, and J. E. Watson,
vice president. They were later re
leased on bonds.
-d
is
AEROPLANES FOR
Prisoners Are Executed
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Aug.,28. In
fU'ht with a hon t Y'i 1 1 tut i e f
ftorrales. close-.to the Durango 'linWtCllrolina Participated in the game as
SCOUT SERVICE
.Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 2S. Com
menting today on the big naval game
played last week, Rear Admiral Ben
son, chief cf operations, said the vital
lesson demonstrated was the need of
aeroplanes for scouting purposes and
also the urgent necessity of adding
battle and scout cruisers to the fleet
Although the aeroplane ship North
a acout, none of her hydroaeroplanes
was regarded as safe fot use. Admi
ral Benson said the problem of find
ing the best type of pontoon for the
machines, minimizing the danger on
n August and in most of the M a""an
9 the fourth week in August " "nfLUV- ?
a decline in the number of new . '"heris 1
portant cities in Transylvania. They
are near the southern border of
Hungary, the first about six miles
from the Rumanian frontier and the
last about fifteen miles from the
frontier.
Kronstadt is the. most important
commercial and manufacturing cen
ter of Transylvania. It has a popu
lation of 41,000. Hermannstadt has
a population of 33,000. Rumanians
make up a large part of the popu
lation of both cities.
Discussing the Effects
LONDON, Aug., 28. All the Lon
don morning papers give most of
their editorial spce to discussion of
Rumania s entry into the war. em
phasizing its economic, political and
moral, as well as military effects.
With reference to its military
significance the papers all assert that
it alters the whole balance of man
pnwer in the eastern and southeast
ern theaters, bring Bulgaria between
the upper and nether millstones and
offers Russia a route to the heart of
the enemy's country, a route whose
defense involves a large extension of
the enemy's line and an enormous
increase In ' his responsibilities. The
IVily News says:
"It is the envelopment of the cen
tral powers which Rumanian success
would complete that is the capital
fact of the situation. Economically
the importance of "Rumania's step is-!
TO REAR REPORTS ON PROGRESS
' OF THE DEMDGRimC CAMPAIGN
,.r
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 28. Many
democratic members of congress gath
ered at a local hotel tonight to hear re
ports on the progress of the presi
dential campaign. The committee
heads asked for more speakers for
Maine, hut otherwise Speaker Clark
reminded them that it was essential to
maintain a quorum of the house for
action on important business to be dis
posed of before adjournment.
Representative Garrett of Ten
nessee, referring to the threatened
strike, suggested that legislation of the
very gravest importance might be lm
pending, and that those In charge of
the Maine campaign must bear that In
mind in expecting legislators to leave
Washington. Representative Williams
of Illinois proposed the need of more
' democratic literature for the Gertnan-
American newspaper readers.
Mr. McCormlck said that the great
est problem that confronted the party
was getting its case before the public,
as war and international affairs had
crowded the campaign off the front
pages of the newspapers. He told how
It was planned to have a rouslfffc
democratic start in Maine; and then
carry on the fight actively elsewhere,
concentrating In the doubtful states,
and not wasting ammunition on the
certain districts.
Mr. Cummings told the conference
there were states in which the demo
rata had a right to expect victory, but
vhich a few years ago were hopeless.
'le. said reports from Mane were so
encouraging as to be "almost too as
tonishing to believe."
He asked that twelve or fifteen rep
resentatives volunteer to add to the
speakers scheduled for Maine.
Speaker Clark, who recently returned
from Maine, reported, that the audi
ences there instead of being "cold"
were most appreciative.
the loss to the central powers of the
supplies they have been drawing
from the big Balkan state."
The Express sayB:
"Germany has been receiving cat
tle, wheat and petroleum from Ru
mania in great quantities. This sup
ply is now cut off when the demand
Is more urgent than ever."
Politically the London papers be
lieve Rumania's entry is likely v to
have its most immediate effect in
Oreece, strengthening the hands of
Venizelos and the j.ro-entente party,
i he Morning Pest says:
"For her indecision and weakness
Greece is now suffering heavily, but
there are signs that under the teach
ing t bitter experier.ee the Greek
people are coming to their sense.
Tsey will be wise to look to it that
their repentance does not come too
late.
The Daily Telegraph says:
"Germany awakes after an orgy of
hysterical delight over the safe re
turn of a submarine from America
to hear that the strongest armed
European neutral is ranged against
her, ready for instant war at the
point of greatest peril to her defen
sive scheme.
The meeting of the Rumanian
crewn council at which the decision
to declare war against Austro-Hungary
was reached, was held at the Con
tracent palace.
King Ferdinand presided and the
session was prolonged over several
days. The council consists of nine
teen members of Whom it is believed
four to six opposed intervention.
Besides conferring with the crown
council, With whom the final decision
rested. King Ferdinand had prolonged
conferences with the leaders of al!
Rumanian political parties, including
those favorable to intervention and
those who had been the strongest
supporters of Rumania continuing her
neutrality. 1
The Rumanian military officials
had discussed for some days what
probably would be the first step tak
en, when war was declared, and had
dismissed all alien employes, many
m whom were Germans. An espec-
, lally large number of Germans were
employed in the technical service.
h Genera T Trevlnn Th hnrt nf t'ho I landing, was being given attention by
iiuv y iaici is aim lilts icauia ncic iw
be expressed soon.
The department is still without in
formation as to the part played in the
came bv Rear Admiral Helm's subma
rine flotilla. Admiral Benson de
clared, however, that when the de
partment's plans for establishing sub
marine bases along both coasts, with
a fleet of submarines stationed at
eiu-h, such a result as the red fleet
under Admiral Mayo theoretically ac
compished would be impossible.
The progressive schedule of war
games for the navy contemplated a
joint operation with army. It was
impossible this year to attempt anv
such maneuver because the army was
busy on the Mexican border.
o
WHEAT PRICEBHRE
SENT TUMBLING
notorious bandit Ferniza, found
among the rebel slain, was taken in
to the town of Matamoros, near Tor-
the plaza as an
sympathizers.
prisoners taken in this
fight or those captured in the action
at Salevn a few days ago, were able
to say whether or not Villa was alive.
Colonel Campos, of the Arrie'a
brigade, was dangerously wounded.
It was at Corralitos that General Ig
nacio Rimos was killed by Villa's
men a short time ago.
Say Maratlan Ttaken Over
XOOALKS, Aug.. 28. Reports reach
ed here from Mexico today that Ma
zatlau had heen taken over bv revo-
utionists without firing a shot, al
though the Carranza authorities
across the border said thee had heen
no defection of de facto govenmen?
troops in this important Pacific port.
The same rumors credited General
Calles Willi sending a part of his
troops to counteract the movements
of the rebels with the result that
these troops also joined the new
movement. Even General Flores,
military governor of Sinaloa, is said
o nave gp'en It his support. These
rumors were brought bv travelers
out of Mexico, who said thoy had
them from Mexicans.
(Continued on Page Two)
More Guardsmen Ordered
to Move At Once to' Border
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
.WASHINGTON, August 28. Some
12,000 men of Ohio, Vermont and Ken
tucky National Guard regiments still
held in state mobilization camps were
directed by the war department today
to proceed to the Mexican border. The
department revoked suspension of an
order for their movement issued two
weeks ago. All the regiments will go
forward to Join General Fiyiston's
commano. as rapjaiy as transportation
can be supplied. Borne units were on
the move tonight
There remain approximately 13,000
guardsmen in various states, who are
not affected by today's order. They
also were under orders tor the border
two weeks ago, but the .suspension go
far has not been revoked for them.
When the railway strike situation
became threatening, General Funston
recommended that the whole movement
be held up as the supply difficulty, An
case of- a rail tie-up, would be com
plicated by the addition of 25,000 men
to his command.
The department now has decided
that the strike situation may continue
unchanged for some time. The of
f iters are anxious to complete , the
divisional organization on the border
in order that full advantage may be
taken of the opportunity to train
large number of men. It has also been
concluded, it is said, that the supply
, (Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, August 28. President
Wilson tonight definitely decided to go before
congress in person tomorrow or Wednesday to
recommend legislation aimed to avert the threat
ened nation-wide railroad strike, or stop it if it
comes before congress can act. He worked until
late tonight on his message in which he will tell
members of the senate and house the negotiations
to date and lay before them a definite legislative
program.
The president reached this decision after
conferences at the White House with the commit
tee of eight railroad presidents and the four
brotherhood heads on a new proposal for settle
ment of differences suggested by the executives
and alter a prolonged discussion of the situation
at the capitol with the members of the democratic
steering, committee of the senate. '
The proposition of the railroad executives
was that an investigation of all issues be con
ducted by a commission to be named by the
president, the investigation to last for a period
oi three or tour months, no action to be taken bv
either side in the meantime, and at the conclusion'
ot the inquiry the situation to be-whatit now-is.
the employes having the choice either of arbitral
ing or striking. The brotherhood heads promised
a reply tomorrow and there was every indication
it would be unfavorable.
When the railroad brotherhood heads went
to the White House tonight the president strongly
urged the withdrawal of a tentative strike order
sent out yesterday subject to release calling for a
waiKout ot the 4UU.U00 brotherhood members at
seven o'clock a. m., Labor Day, September 4.
ims request was natiy retused, the leaders say-
uiny uie committee oi t4U, wnicn left Wash
ington yesterday, had power to recall the order.
Copies of the strike order
BEilCE
OYSTER
111
E
republican A. P. Leased Wire I
OYSTER BAY, N. Y- Aug. 28. Strin
gent quarantine rules acainst infantile
paralysis enforced in this village were
denounced today at a meeting of the
town board. Angry residents protested
with such veremence that the members
of the board left the meeting, which
was continued by the villagers.
Resolutions were adopted which
places the blame for the unsatisfactory
conditions in the village on John D.
Kockefeller Andrew Carnegie and
medical pirates." Svmpathv was ex
tended to Theodore Roosevelt for hav
ing "unknowingly aided in the propa
ganda of the medical profession."
'the villagers demanded of the town
board that "the medico maniacs be dis
charged and the officials return to com
mon horse sense view of the situation."
PHILADELPHIA. Aug. 28. Six
deaths from infantile paralysis and
twenty-two new cases of the disease
were reported in Philadelphia today.
Since July 1 there have been 135 deaths
and 444 cases in this city. In the en
tire state there have been 726 cases and
186 deaths reported in the same period.
TO LINK ARMY SYSTEMS.
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Aug. 28. Abrupt widen
ing of the European war zone today
sent wheat values tumbling almost as
if the market had no bottom. The ex
treme fall in price was' 11 &c, an
amount virtually parallel to the extra
ordinary rise witnessed two years ago
on the day that hostilities oegan
Transactions were on a huge scale,
It was the view that the end of the
war had perhaps been greatly hastened !
which in the main brought about to
day's big drop in quotations. Even
the most conservative traders serious
ly discussed the chance that by a
speedy opening -of the Dardanelles
vast stores of Russian grain wouia
soon reach western Europe as a re
sult of Rumania having at last Joined
fortunes with the Anglo-French .al
lies. Word late in the session that
actual fighting had already com
menced on the Rumanian frontier set
the wheat pit here nearly frantic, and
was followed by a wild close at the
fewest prices of the day, $1.40V4 to
$1.40 3-4 for September and $1.43 3-4
to $1.44 3-8 for December as against
Saturday's finish of respectively
$1.51 3-4 and' $1.53 3-4 to $1.54.
Throughout the day, the increased
chances of a general railway strike in
the United States added to the ex
citement of wheat traders, and formed
a perceptible factor In bringing about
the collapse of the market
o
CONFERENCE ON TAXATION.
were
brought to the president's attention
after they had gotten into the posses
sion of the railroad executives. It had
been known that the members of the
committee of '640 carried home with
them a tentative order but not one
outside the brotherhood councils had
suspected that a da,te had been set, and
the president is said to have been
greatly perturbed by the information.
After the refusal to withdraw the or
der, he communicated with the rail
road presidents who held a meeting
that lasted until late in the night.
In spite of the apparent final failure
of his efforts to bring the two sides
together the president was repre
sented tonight as being still hopeful of
averting a strike.
The legislative program prepared for
congress includes the following
measure:
An eight -hour day law for railroad
employes so framed as to give the
railroads time to prepare for it; and,
A law patterned after the Canadian
industrial disputes act providing for
investigation of industrial disputes on
railroads by a commission and pro
hibiting strikes or lockouts pending
the outcome of the investigation.
In addition to these measures there
are under consideration a resolution to
increase the revenues of the railroads
in case the expenses are increased and
a law creating authority for the opera
tion of the railroads under the federal
government in event of a strike. The
plan tonight was to have the first two
measures introduced as amendments to
the bill, which already has passed the
house, increasing the interstate com
merce commission from seven to nine
members.
RepiibTcan A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Aug. 28. Sweden and
Russia have agreed to link their army
systems by bridging the river Tornea
on the boundary between the two
countries, according to a Reuter Stock
holm dispatch. Construction of the
bridge will begin immediately. "
. o
CLAIMS ARE APPROVED.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 28. Claims
aggregating- $25 3,000 from receivers, at
torneys and trustees against the West
ern Pacific railroad during its insolv
ency were- approved here today in the
difficulty can be met even in cajse of a United States distirct court by Judge
sirme, w. van f ieet
Although on the surface a nation
wide railroad strike was nearer tonight
than it ever had been, confidence was
expressed in official quarters that tho
steps under contemplation would have
the effect -of preventing the walkout.
The president, realizing the disaster
which would come to the country if
the railroads are tied up. was said to
be determined to prevent a strike at
any cost. In his conferences with ex
ecutives he strongly urged that they
change their hitherto unyielding at
titude and when he saw the employes
he declared that all suggestions from
the executives should be given most
careful consideration. - -
Final arrangements for the appear
ance of the president before congress
were not completed tonight but he
discussed the question fully with the
democratic steering committee of the
senate and they agree with him that
he should address a joint session.
The time of his appearance depends
largely upon further conferences to
morrow with the executives and the
employes.
At today's conference the railroad
presidents did not formally present the
statement agreed on by them last Fri
day night, which amounted to a flat
refusal of his plan of settlement. This
statement has been signed by all the
executives, but its presentation was
withheld in the interest of peace. Pres
ident Wilson was informed verbally of
its terms, however.
Throughout the day there appeared
to be some possibility that an agree
ment might be reached on a plan
which would include concession of the
(omj esaj no pennnuoo)
' f Republican A. P. Leased Wire
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind., Aug. 28. Dele
gates from thirty-three states, Canada
and Alaska enrolled at the opening of
the tenth annual national conference
on taxation here today. The conference
is under the auspices of the National
Tax Association. George E. Pomeroy
of Toledo. Ohio, was chosen as perm
anent chairman of the conference by the
executive, committee, and Robert M.
Campbell of Cornell University, was
chosen secretary. N. P. Haugen of the
Wisconsin Tax Commission is chairman
of the committee. - . -.
Grand Army Veterans Make ?
Sacrifices For Encampment
BLOW BREAKS NECK
Repub'ican A. P. Leased Wire
DALLAS. Aug.. 2S. Wm. G. Snyder.
45. died tonight from a broken neck
sustained a few minutes before when,
he was struck in the jaw by Peter
Shaw, during a fistfight. Shaw sur
rendered to officers and was placed
in Jail. , .
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KANSAS CITY, August 28. Person
al sacrifices extending back through
many months, has made possible a
great part of the attendance at the
annual encampment of the Grand Army
of the Republic That was the state
ment tonight of Captain Elias Mon
fort, commander-in-chief of the blue
clad veterans.
"The 'boys' have saved their money
for months to attend this encamp
ment," he said. "Some of them should
have epent their pension money for
food and clothing but saved it for this
reunion.
"You may talk about the bravery
they displayed on the battlefield. But
what about the bravery of these fel
lows who are here today, many of
them having come thousands of miles
and having gone to great sacrifice jo
do it. They are as game today as
they were years ago when they fought
their country's battles."
Cold weather has descended on
Kansas City, bringing relief to the el-
derly veterans and making it possible ,
for them to take more active part in
the celebration than had been expected.
The ' auxiliary organized of the
Grand Army, totalling eight, opened
their headquarters in various parts of
the city during the 'day and registra
tions of memberi continued through-"
out the morning and the afternoon.
Routine business meetings of the
councils and commanders of both the
Grand Army and the auxiliaries were
held, completing arrangements for the
sessions of all the organizations to
start Wednesday afternoon following
the annual parade of the veterans that
morning, - 1 '.
