;
m t t
Hie WHttt0tan fme
WEATHER FORECAST:
.'Generally Fair Today
(Full Report on Pago Two.)
HOME
EDITION
NUMBER 9007.
WASHINGTON, TUESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 29, 1916.
PRICE ONE CENT.
ROUMANIANS
DRIVE
ACROSS
HUNGARY LINE
Advance of 80,000 Fresh
Troops Carries Beyond the
Transylvania Border.
FIGHTING SHIFT IS HASTY
Roumania, All Prepared, Moves
With Great Precision in
Offensive Against Foes.
Cavalry Kills 7
Mexican Raiders
Terlingua, Texas, Reports ' Scene
of Bloody Combat Between
Raiders and U. S. Troops.
EL PA80, Tex., Aug. 2.--Seven
Mexicans' were killed yesterday In a
fight with Troop C, Sixth United
States Cavalry, near Terlingua, Tex.,
In the Big Bend country, according to
a truck driver wJlo reached Marathon
this morning.
The raiders, the truck driver aald.
crossed from Mexico on Sunday, and,
reaching the Big Bend mine, seven
miles east of Terllngua. dynamited
the place and wrecked the property,
looting the store and running all the
Inhabitants of the settlement away.
Troop C. Sixth United Btates Car-
Clry, pursued and killed seven of the
andlts before they could escape back
to Mexico, according to the Informa
tion or tne irucK artver,
Part of the Pennsylvania troops are
cated in the Blr Bend country, also
Comotnr 'K, Fourth Texas Infantry,
all of which have been summoned for
the chase. It Is understood there
were no casualties among the Americans.
LONGEVITY PAY PRESIDENT ASKS CONGRESS
TO AVERT TRAFFIC TIE-UP
IN DEFICIENCY
BILL FOR D. C.
$14,300,000 Measure Reported
to House By Chairman Fitzgerald.
$3,000,000 FOR NICARAGUA
RING
LONDON, Aug. 29. Rou
manian troops attacked on the
whole Teutonic front yesterday
and obtained successes, said a
Bucharest dispatch transmitted
from Rome by wireless today.
LONDON, Aug. 29. Eighty
thousand Roumanian troops al
ready are moving toward the Tran
sylvanian frontier for the invasion
of Hungary.
Advance guards of this Rou
manian force have crossed the
Hungarian boundary in a swift ad
vance on the two Transylvania
cities of Hermannstadt and Kron-
stadt. It is these forces which en
gaged the Teutons in the Rothen
thurm pass, fifteen miles from
Hermannstadt and in the passes a
few miles from Kronstadt.
MOVING WITH PRECISION.
The whole Roumanian troop move
ment Is going forward like clockwork,
the meager advices received hero today
Indicated. King Ferdinand's armies, al
most completely mobilized and awaiting
the' word of war, are prepared to strike
quickly on whatever front the Rouma
nian general staff determines to start
Its major campaign.
Tho Germans acted with equal swift
ness in meeting the new enemy In the
Balkans. Dispatches from Iusanne
today said tho Teutons closed tho Swiss
frontier less than an hour after Italy
declared war on Germany.
Tho German general staff knew this
preceded a declaration from Roumania.
and It Is believed began shifting troops
eastward to re-enforce the Austrlana
several hours before news of the Rou
manian declaration or war was gen
erally known.
Line Already Stiffening.
The first official statement reporting
the capture of Roumanian prisoners
came from the German war office. In
dicating that German troops already
are stiffening the Austrian lines along
Roumanla's frontier.
The whole Balkan war theater has
been set aflame by Roumanla's en
trance Into the war. Several pro-ally
demonstrations occurred In Athens
when the news was received there early
yesterday, and the Venlzellst newspa
pers arc renewing their demand thnt
Greece enter tho war. Telegraphic ad
vices from Berlin today Indicated that
Germany Is watching the Greek situa
tion with some anxiety. From the same
t-ource It was reported that Bulgaria
has taken "important military steps" to
counter upon the Roumanian declara
tion of war.
The German government Is deter
mined to push an aggressive campaign
against Roumania. carrying the fight
ing to Roumanian soil early In the
campaign. It wns stated. Germany has
known of Roumanla's Intentions for
Home time, the dispatch added, and
lins had troops In position In the Bal
kans to strike swiftly.
Planning Great Blow.
The German general staff plans to
pnralvze the Roumanians with a blow
that will ellmlnato them as a factor In
the war within n few months.
Tho Roumanian minister to Berlin
Is leaving todav on a special train. He
sought a farewell Interview last night
with Chancellor von Bcthmann-Moll.
weg, but tho Interview was refused.
THE HAGUE. Aug. 2.-Fleld Mnrshal
von Mackrnsen. who led the sun-ess-fill
Austro-German campaign through
Serbia a vear ago, will be In com
mand of the German-Bulgarian nrmles
operating against Roumania, according
to Berlin advices today.
AUSTRIA TO ABANDON
BALKAN COUNTRIES
ROME, Aug, 29. Complete evacuation
of Montenegro and Albania by the Aus
trlans will bo the first result or Rout
mania's entrance Into the war, Italian
critics asserted today. The early col
lapse of the dual monarchy, possibly by
the end of the present year, was pre
dicted by u majority of tho Italian war
experts.
Despite denials from Vienna, It has
been learned by the Italian military au
thorities that Austria has withdrawn
nearly a whole army corps from Monte
negro and Albania within the past six
weeks to check tho Russian and Italian
offensives.
GERMAN CABINET
MEMBERS RESIGN
TUB HAGUE!. Aug. 59.-A report wns
circulated In diplomatic elides hero to
day that both Foreign Secretary von
Jagow and Under Bccrotary Zimmer
man have tendered their resignations
to the German chancellor as tho result
of Roumanla's declaration of war, and
that the resignations havo been accepted.
NET OF W
EXTENDS TO CUM
Women Bought There Are Sold
in This Country for $200,
N. Y. Officials .Say.
Longevity Pay for Sohool
Teachers Included Effici
ency Ratings Provided.
NEW YORK, Aug. .-The tentacles
of New York's slave traffic reach Into
the Orient for victims, according to the
belief of Assistant District Attorney
Smith, who today Is Investigating the
arrest of Lee I.al, a Chinese woman.
The arrest, the district attorney be
lieves, may uncover a great traffic In
women of the Orient brought here
through Canada for Immoral purposes.
Evidence that Chinese women are won
and lost dally at gambling tables has
been unearthed by Immigration officials.
Indictments have been found against
eighteen men for trafficking In women.
Police officials believe that at least
twenty more men soon will be under In
dictment. Social circles may get a shock before
the Investigation Is over. The district
attorney's office Is Investigating the
operations of a man of social standing,
who Is claimed to furnish women for
rich men.
Artist's Dinner Orgy.
A thirty-five page affidavit In the
hands of the district attorney dlscloies
features of a dinner orgy given by a
millionaire artist, which may lead to
arrests.
The affidavit made by one of the
women "entertainers" shows that a
"September Morn" tableau was one of
the bits of diversion. Other disclosures
made are said to be the moat startling
heard In the criminal courts building
since Evelyn Thaw bared her relations
with Stanford White to save the life
of her husband. Harry Thaw.
Bought in China for $200 Apiece.
Inspector Wiley, of the Chinese Bu
reau of the Immigration Department,
said'
"Chinamen go to China from this
country, buy women for $200 apiece
and bring them singly to the United
States, swearlm; they are tbelr wives
when brought before the Immigration
officers. As no proof can be had to
the contrary, they are allowed to en
ter this country. Investigation shows
that the woman Is then sold to the
highest bidder, somctlmo bringing as
high ns $1,000, according to age and
beauty.
"if the man becomes ttred of his
Mave he generally sella her at a re
duced price to another of his race. As
the Chinese are great gamblers, they
become heavily involved In debt. In
many Instances creditors demand a
mortgaga on debtors' slaves In tho way
of making them leave their homes and
living with them until the debt Is paid.
If the Indebtedness Is not paid at n cer
tain time, the woman becomes the
Ecrmanent property of the creditor, to
e trafficked In as he sees fit.
"We have deported many Chinese
women of this kind, but have never
obtained evidence on which their mas
ters could be convicted."
Appropriating f1S3,M7:47 In District of
Columbia Items, and carrying approxi
mately $U,S0O,O0p as a total, the gen
eral deficiency appropriation bill was
reported to the House today by Chair
man Fitzgerald of the Appropriations
Comrfflttee. The bill Is the last of the
annual supply measures, and cleans de
ficiency odds and ends In all the execu
tive departments.
The largest single Item In the bill Is
under the State Department, and appro
priates $1,000,000 for payment to the
government of Nicaragua under treaty
agreement with that country.
Other large Items Include those for
the army and navy and fortifications,
of which amount taSO.OOO Is for deficiency
pay of enlisted men and officers of the
arm.
Longevity Pay Included.
The long expected longevity pay for
the public school teachers of the Dis
trict of Columbia was Included in the
bill.
A legfslatlve provision stipulates that
there must be efficiency ratings .In all
executive departments after next March,
else no one can be promoted to higher
pay In these departments.
The principal District of Columbia de
ficiencies cared for in the bill are as
follows:
Allowance for principals, publlo
schools, WO 1.70: longevity pay for each
ers, J31.7W.M: toward construction of a
THE PROPOSED LAWS
The following measures designed to carry out the
President's plans for handling the present railroad strike
situation are being drafted today:
j A law providing the eight-hour day. '
2 A law providing a commission to investigate all facts
relative to the application of the eight-hour day to
the railroad.
3 A law investing powers in the Interstate Commerce
Commission of considering wage increases in fixing
rates.
A A law providing a commission similar to that under
" the Canadian disputes act to investigate all disputes,
and during the inquiry to prohibit strikes and lockouts.
5 A law empowering the President to draft men into
service for the military operation of railroads.
Senator Newlands, of the Committee on Interstate
Commerce, was in conference today with Attorney Gen
eral Gregory, Interstate Commerce Commissioner Clark,
and Chairman Adamson, of the House Interstate Com
merce Committee, to determine the language of the
bills.
Wilson, Before Joint Session. Makes Final
Effort to Prevent Walk-Out of Four
Hundred Thousand Railroad
Brotherhood Men.
ONE RAY OF HOPE IN THE CRISIS
six-room building, Blrney School. 1171.60;
support or. uisinci convicts. .wu; mii
ceflaneous expenses, Supreme Court, de
Eight-Hour Day Law
Will Be Accepted By
Brotherhood Leaders
Garretson, Spokesman for Employes, De
clares Eight-Hour Law Will Be Accepted
Direct Negotiations End With
Executives' Final Refusal
Throngs Eager
To Hear Wilson
flclencles for four years; approximately
12,000; provisions, etc.. Washington Asy
lum and Jail, W.O: maintenance of Jail
prisoners at Washington Asylum, de
ficiency of two years, $3,U5; National
Training School for Boys, $I,4M: Colum
bia Hospital: total Including improve
ments. S4.235; Emergency Hospital, two
years' Tendencies, $7,312; Kastern Dis
pensary, 13,091: Children's Hospital, de.
flclencles for four years, approximately
$5,700; Tuberculosis Hospital, $5,8(0;
maintenance of feeble-minded children,
$3.7S0: Industrial lime School for Color
ed Children, $2,489: Industrie Home
School, 1.1: Indigent Insane, $7,080;
District mllltla, :.:w.
There are also Included a number o
small Items ranging from $3 up, to
cover deficiency expshses la the cor
oner's office, the courts, and various
other branches of the District gov
ernment. Among the legislative "riders" car
ried In the deficiency budget are:
A provision that the Bureau of Ef
ficiency shall Investigate methods of
transacting the public business In
the Internal Revenue Bureau, with
recommendation for the Improvement
of business methods.
Authorization for the expenditure
by the Secretary of the Navy of $2,500
for reinforcing the floors of rooms In
the rented building known as the
Navy building, In New York avenue,
(Continued on Page Four.)
Mexican Board
Members on Way
Mayor and Other Officials Will
Welcome Them to Eagle
Pass Today.
Question of Punitive Overtime Can Be Left to Presi
dent's Proposed Commission, Says Garret
son Will Fight Enactment of Cana
dian Arbitration Principle.
Hope that a settlement of the railroad dispute may be found by
legislation before the strike order goes into effect grew today when
it became known the brotherhood leaders, spokesmen for 400,000
road workers, will accept the proposed eight-hour-day law.
President Garretson, of the Order of Railway Conductors and
spokesman for the men, said eight-hour day legislation would find less
opposition from the men than from the railroads.
WILL AFFECT UNORGANIZED MEN.
the men
a that i
uv iw n win iei-i hid jv mr .nv i ,,":,,. . , , ., c ts r,
...,... i, ..j ..n,,,,, j ,.,-i,.-. .. w.n 'limited to eight hours. The question
of unorganised railroad workers as well overUrn, for work i,eyorui the elght-hi
a KntViaihAMria ' Xft fm ! f al1 n ' -!-- it! ..ill m ..
"If tho eight-hour day Is provided . irapossinie, tne men ssy, to arrange
bv law It will affect the SO per cent '""'" Jnal JrK snail De
in 01
as tne oroinernooas
said.
xecutlves much less solicitous for l'"d commission sought bv the Presl
this unorganised W per cent when the . "c,,u
ravor tour of Five .Bills,
Mr. Oarrctson period will still remain for settlement.
"We expec( to find the railroad ' but this could be settled by the pro-
eight-hour question comes up."
President Garretson's attention was
called to the fact that tho resolution
adopted by the (10 railroad chairmen
before they left Washington Sunday
From expressions of brotherhood lead
ers today they are prepared to accept
four of the five nuggested legislative
acts urged by the President. They will
called for a strike September 4 unlei-s ' not oppose the olght-hour day law, the.
the railroads before that time accept law naming a commission to apply to
tho President's proposal for an eight- eight-hour day. the -law to Invest the
hour basis day. Ho wns asked If Interstate Commerce Commission with
anything short of capitulation by the power t0 consider wage Increases In
Scramble On At Capitol
Tickets to the House
Galleries.
For
Another scramble for tickets to the
House galleries ensued at the Capitol
todav when It became known that
the President would deliver a mes
sage on the railroad strike situation
at 2:30 o'clock.
Large signs were posted up about
tho House wing notifying wayfarers
that no admission to the galleries
could be had without tickets, and the
members .themselves were soon scout
ing about for extra admission cards
for families or constituents.
There Is -but one ticket for each
Senator and member of the House,
and the demand Invariably exceeds
the supply. Nobodv envies the job
of Joseph J. Slnnott. doorkeeper, on
tho days when the President comes to
the Capitol and the nubile begins a
football formation rush on those who
have the admission cards. Incident-
because almost everv member has
some particular person to whom his
ticket must go.
SUSPENDS ORDER TO
RELEASE STUDENTS
The War Department today tempor
arily suspended an order releasing
college students from the mllltla on
September 1. This order does not ap
ply to military units composed en
tirely of college students, which will
be disbanded on Heptember .
Individual men, however, will not be
released until an Investigation has
been made as to the effect of their
release upon the organizations they
are serving with.
EAGLE PASS, Aug. U.-Mexlcan
inembers of the Mexican-American
Commission, created to find a solution
of border and other problems confront
ing the two republics, are expected to
arrive at Eagle Pass today.
The commissioners are Minister of
Finance Cabrera and Benore Pat I and
Bonilla. They will detrain at Pledraa
Negras. A delegation composed of the
Mexican consul at Eagle Pass, Mayor
Simpson and former Mayor Schmidt
will go across the International bridge
to meet the commissioners and escort
them to this city.
Having remained Idle the go-eater
part of yesterday because of another
rather severe storm, the Maryland mili
tiamen are prepared today to resume
with redoubled energy the program of
military exercises through which the
guardsmen are now being put.
NEW DANCE INVENTED
MAY REPLACE "TROTS"
Is Neither Fast Nor Slow, and Dis
tinctly New.
rallmmlx could avert u Strike
"An eight-hour law by Congress will
head oil a strike," Mr. Garretson said.
ltallroau brotherhood leaders take tne
position that In adopting an eight-hour
day affecting railroad workers. Congress
will be compelled to draft a measure of
such elasticity as to allow trainmen to
work longer than eight hours.
In the operation of railroads It will be
I R.
EXECUTIVES
OUTLI
NE THEIR
A
E
Explain Reasons for Refusing
Wilson's Proposal D e n y
Demands for 8-Hour Day.
CHICAGO. Aug. 29. A now danco to
rout the "trots" from the ball room,
wa laid before the public today by the
National Association of Dancing Mas
ters. It Is a round dance, neither fast nor
slow. It starts with a slow stop, then
two fast steps with two slow steps at
everv fourth beat, and Is danced three
steps to a measure. Dancing masters
declare It Is distinctly n new dance.
It will have a new rhythm ns compared
to all modern dances.
Or. Hugo Kollx. the noted Viennese
composer, now In Chicago, will com
pose the new dance. Dancing masters
expect t give the new aance a name
bor adjournment.
A formal stntement Issued by all the
railway presidents this afternoon em
bodied their own proposal to the
President and gave their reasons for
refusing to accept his plan of settle
ment. "We are unable after the most earn
est consideration to agree with the
proposal of the President of tho
United States," It said, "which Is that
wo accept without arbitration 'the
substitution of an olght'-hour day for
tho present ten-hour day In all of tho
exUtlng practices and agreements.'
This Ib the main point in controversy
nnd we cannot surrender it without an
opportunity to be heard in soma fornf
of fair arbitration.
"Wo do not ussent to the statement
that the eight-hour day now un
doubtedly lias tho sanction of the Judg
ment of society In Its favor.' We believe
that society has not yet recorded Kb
Judgment upon this subject."
The statement then continues as fol
lows: We are not in this controversy, how
over, dealing with the conditions re
lating to the eight-hour day In tho In
dustrial world. The difference between
(Continued on Second Page.)
fixing rates, and the law empowering
the President to draft men Into ser
vice for military operation ot tho rail
roads In case of strike.
The only one of the flvn proposed
legislative measures the men will fight
Is that providing a commission otmlinr
to the Canadian disputes act, and that
they will fluht to the last.
It was apparent from a statement
today by the brotherhood leaders that
If Congress attempts to pass legisla
tion along lines of the Canadian law,
It will meet the solid opposition of
organised labor and will be fouirht bv
members of Congress friendly to labor.
Brotherhood's Statement.
The statement of the brotherhood
leaders, which Is signed by Presidents
Garretson, of the conductors; Stone
of the engineers, Carter of tho fire
men, and Lee of the trainmen, Is as
follows:
"Since tho abolition of slavery no
Jiorc effectual means has hoen devised
or Insuring the bondage of the work
(Contlnued on Second Page.)
BILL FOR INCREASE
OF G. P.O. PAY LOST
Tavenner Bill Is Blocked By Con
gressman Cox
President Wilson made his final effort this after
noon to avert the railroad strike which has been scheduled
foi next Mondav morning.
Before a joint session of the two houses of Congress
he explained briefly the steps he has taken so far to bring
the railroad executives and the employes together and he
outlined the legislation he thinks is necessary.
Anticipating his appearance at the Capitol bills already
are being drawn to meet his views, and these probably will
be introduced as soon as he finishes.
Both sides to the controversy are standing firm. The
railroad presidents this morning notified President Wilson
they could not accept his compromise plan of yesterday
afternoon and the representatives of the employes made it
plain again that the strike order effective on Monday will
not be recalled unless the demand for an eight-hour day
with ten "Hours pay is met unconditionally before the time
set for a general strike or unless an eight-hour law is passed
by Congress.
GARRETSON GIVES RAY OF HOPE.
The one ray of hope was a statement by President
Garretson, of the conductors, that passage of an eight-hour
law will 'stop the strike, as the men will be willing to leave
the question of punitive overtime to the commission pro
posed by the President.
Both sjdes also show strong opposition to the Presi
dent's legislative program. The men are bitterly opposed
to the Canadian plan for settling labor disputes and the ex
ecutives resent the effort to force by law an eight-hour day
which will apply not only to the brotherhoods but to alt
their other employes.
The President completed his work -on his address to
Congress early today. It contains about 3,500' words and
is said to express in strong language his view of what a!
strike would mean to this country, together with his opinion
of the course taken by both sides to the dispute.
LAST ACT IN NEGOTIATIONS.
The railway presidents' committee of eight saw the
President for about fifteen minutes and tendered to him their
own propostion, which has been ready since Saturday
night, but which he deferred receiving until today, while
offering them a new' compromise plan. The President sent
the proposition, by Secretary Tumulty, to the brotherhood
leaders. There was no expectation the brotherhoods would
accept it.
The sending of the proposition to the brotherhoods was
considered probably the last act in the direct negotiations
carried on by the President to head off the impending strike.
VIEWS TO BE SOUGHT.
Consideration of tho Tavennor bill
granting Increased, pay to printers and
bookbinders in the Government Print
ing Office- was blocked, so far as this
session la concerned, In the House to
day. Congressman Cox of Indians, a
Democrat, refused unanimous consent
to take up the bill, and Its place on the
calendar Is such that It cannot be
reached otherwise.
Tho bill proposes to Increase wages of
printers and bookbinders from ft) cents
o S5 cents an hour. Congressman Cox
said that printers at the Government
frlntery are now paid higher wagea
than the samo class of workmen In
twenty-two othor cities, and In addition
they receive all annual leave.
"If there Is anything which Impresses
me," said Mr. Oox, "It Is the appalling
total of appropriations for this oCn
gress. I do not thl.nk this is an appro
priate time to bo Increasing tho Gov
ernment payroll by 175,000, as this bin
would do. '
naltroad presidents, heads of the
brotherhoods and perhaps all the lend
ers of organized loaders or organized
labor, Including President Oompers, will
be called before the Senate Interstate
Commerce Committee and asked for
their views about the legislation which
President Wilson has proposed as the
outgrowth of the railroad controversy.
Tho Senate Interstate Commerce Com
mittee will hold a meeting this after
noon following the nddress of the
President, and will consider his pro
gram. The Democrotlo members of tho
commltteo and Senator Newlands dls
ouosed the proposed legislation, at a
mooting this morning and early this af
ternoon. . .. , ,,
Senator Cummins, one of the leading
Republican members of the Interstate
Commerce Committee, said this after
noon that he would urgo that hearings
be granted, Ho sold the railroad heads
ond tho brotherhood heads should state
their position In regard to the laws ask
ed for by the White House.
ffcnator Cummins added that ha would
.niA niht hearings if necessary to ex
pedite "hlngs. Tie believes It will be
ioveral weeks before the legislation can
be noted upon, and ho does not believe
thnt While tne legislation m jrciiuiim
Congress the brotherhoods will permit
a strike. , A. . , ,. '
HOW long It win ihkp in pui iiiruuHii
the Wilson progrnm of legislation on
one oday l in a position to say,
that part or alt of the legislation will
be enacted already Is clear.
On both sides of the Capitol today Im
portant Informal cqnferencos were held
among Democratic . leaders discussing
the measures which' are proposed.' "
Senator Newlands, chairman of the
Interstate Commerce Committee, who
was In conferenco with the President
and various officials, conferred also
with Democratic members of his com
mittee. Thoy met in the offices of the
committee and went over the proposed
bills. Some of the Republican Senators
also were consulted.
Passage la Predicted.
It was predicted today by Democra
tic leaders the President would be
given theleglslatlon ho has advo
cated. "The President Is handling thin
situation and It will bo the policy
of the Democrats In Congress to back
him with whatever legislation he
wants," said one Democratic Senator.
However, there Is reason to believe
the Democrats will not be united on
some phases or the legislation, Home of
the Democratic Senators ore opposed to
enlarging tho Interstate Commerce
commission ana uoiug nnyining to put
Congress in the position of backing up
an increase of ficlght ratss.
To this there will be bitter nnoosltlsa.
But which will not be confined to Itepub.
