.Bridgeport
Evening- Farmei
i -
Donaflciflcji EBBflia n terbihg -STRiKH.fi
MSMW TO
mm 111 EMIIISE
-W:H'IIEIVfCE
eneral Mobilization is Ordered Amid Great En
thusiasm Rumanian and Austrian Armies
Meet in Mighty Struggle at Border Line Ger-
' many Expects Greece Will Next Enter rWar on
- the Side of the Allies.
v Bucharest, Aug. 29 King Ferdinand has ordered the gen
eral mobilization of the Rumanian army. Great enthusiasm1 pre
vails in the capital. -
' i Desperate Fighting on Border
! v London, Aug. 29-Desperat'e -fighting on the border between
,tamania and Hungary is reported in an . Exchange telegraph
despatch from Berne-, Switzerland. The Rumanians the mes-1
I sage says, are making furious
mountain passes. ,
: : . . Rumanians Join With Russians
Zurich, Aug. 29 Rumanian troops which had been concen
trated at Jassyv near the Russian frontier, entered Transylvania
at a point to the west of Piatra
i receivea, are reportea 10 loewe jouaea torces wiia Russian troops
icotning from Bttkowina? V:' . ' ' , ;
'.. ' ' - Germany Expects Entry of Greece
' -Lodon( Aug." 29 An Exchange Telegraph- despatch from
The Hague says that Germany is making preparations for even
tual entry of Greece into the war, which German circles regard
I as, a possible outcome of the situation. , ; ;
'A number of Greeks departed from Germany in the last few
I days and tomorrow the Greek minister in Berlin is to be receiv
led by Chancellor Von Bethmann-Hollweg. .'",' ; '
. .1 ' Paris Says Bulgaria Won't Act t . l1 V '
Paris, Aug. 29 The , Bucharest correspondent- of the Petit
(Journal telegraphs that he is informed that Bulgaria, has decid
ed not to declare war oh Rumania even though that country per
' jnits the passage through it of Russian troops. .'
. i , ' I .e.ustro-Hungarlan minister to Ruma-
Bucharest, .' Aug. t9 The cause nla, after a meeting of the Rumanian
rthat led . Rumania, to declare war on Crown council at which It was Je-Auula-HuMmry
areset forth in a elded to declare war. Summarized,
,note presented to Count Czeraln, the (Continued on page 4)
1TT1CIIED AS BIASED,
judge mm PITS
D. &ri RECEIMSU1T
: ' r -; :
Boston, Aug. 29 After allowing an order for temporary re
ceivership for the Boston & Maine Railroad, under which he
named President James lUHustis for the office, United States
Circuit Judge William L. Putnam today withdrew from the case
because of a bill which, he stated, attacked the integrity of the
This bill, which was .filed by Asa fc.
French, cdunsel for rannis , ts.
etreeter, minority stockholder, as
' eerted that Judge Putnam, because of
Ws personal relations with director
4 ox tne road, was unm ip mi in -.
celvership proceedings. Judge Put
nam ordered the bill sent to the fed
eral district attorney, with directions
that it be placed before the grand jury
-for investigation.
This unexpected development followed-
the court's ruling that the Bos
ton tt Maine's ' minority stockholder
Association was net entitled to inter
fvene In the case -which was based on
. a petition of the Inter-continental
Hubber ' Co., of New Jersey, n note
holder of the road; receivership.
.. After Boyd B. Jones, counsel for the
petitioner, had explained that the peti
tion for a receiver was brought
through arrangements with the di
rectors of the road, Mr. French charg
ed this was an admission of collusion
-and of breach of trust to stockhold
ers. He asked for dismissal of the
petition on these grounds. At this
point Judge Putnam said:
, "Ton may be right about the exist
ence of collusion but I should- wait to
send that please by a master. I can
root allow Intervention in this case
which Is solely' between the complain
ant and the corporation." '
The ourt gave counsel permission
to make a general statement, if he
desired. -; - -
Instead,-: Mr. French introduced
trtiat he termed an' "affidavit of bias"
llch be claimed, had been filed -with
efforts to capture the important
d,. according to information
the clerk of court who had refused to'
accept It by the court's order. This
affidavit asserted "that the principle
and basic Issue of fact in controversy
involved the integrity, and fidelity to
their trust of a majority of the board
of directors of the road and whether
they had improperly and unlawfully
conspired with the complainant In
violation of duty to the stockholders
in an attempt to force a receivership."
Continuing' the affidavit said that
while sharing "the confidence of the
public generally In the Integrity, learn
ing and impartiality" of Judge Put
nam, the affiant was informed and be
lieved that the personal relations of
Judge Putnam with the directors, or
some of them, were so close and
friendly that he could not help enter
ing a personal bias in favor of the
directors and a corresponding preju
dice against the contention of the mi
nority stockholders.
To this affidavit was attached a for
mal certification by Counsel French
that It was ''made in good faith."
Judge Putnam, plainly moved ty
the reading of the complaint, said that
while he did not then regard himself
as disqualified to sit in the case by
the papers filed he did not propose
to sit while they were a matter of
record. He told Attorney French he
would order the papers sent to the
district attorney if they were allowed
to stand In the court records.
After A brief recess, during which
he conferred ' with associate counsel,
Mr. French returned to inform the
court that the papers having been en
tered, would not be withdrawn.
RUNAWAY AUTO
TRUCK WRECKS
2-STORY HOUSE
Loaded With Cement, Vehi
cle Plunges Backward
Down Golden Hill St.
PUSHES FURNITURE
TO ROOMS IN REAR
Workman" J umps In Time
to Avoid Being Caught
. Amid Debris.
The two-story home of Alexander
Gottlieb, 189 Golden Hill street, - was
wrecked when a five-ton automobile
truck heavily, loaded with cement, un
expectedly . started moving backward
this morning.
Frederick' Smith, colored, 'an em
ploye of the Piatt Co., a trucking con
cern on State street, owner of the big
automobile, had a 'narrow escape
from death as he jumped when the
load struck and went through the
front of the two-story and basement
building.; . , r
In addition to the bouse front, joists
and walls which were carried away.
furniture In ' the front parlor of Mr.
Gottlieb's residence was hurled about
the room and It is asserted that had it
not been for a two-foot stone' abut-
jnent wall at the base of the sidewalk
the .truck would have gone : entirely
through the house.'1 The family who
were at Walnut Beach on a vacation.
will return to find that the entire
front of their residence will have' to
be rebuilt. A peculiar feature is that
the truck was undamaged, ' though
more than a .ton of cement destined
for . the., new court house was spilled
from barrels upon the sidewalk, many
of them rolling considerable distance
down the hill to the peril, of pedes
trians at Main and Golden Hill streets.
, The accident occurred when . Louis
Wrabel, chauffeur of the truck, which
had climbed the hill and stood block-:
ed with bricks, .in front of the new
courthouse extension, went inside the
building. Smith was near, the tail
end of the truck when there was a
sudden lurch and the truck began ito
gain headway backwards. "Its rear
wheels lifted the curb as Smith jump
ed and sprawled uninjured, in the
street.. There was a crunching sound
and an impact, following which bar
rels of . cement began' rolling down
Golden Hill',' '
Investigation disclosed that the
rear end of the. truck had carried away
window frames, sheathing, joists and
Interior walls of the house. A daven
port against the front wall of the
parlor was thrown to the rear of the
house.
The truck was moved forward under
Its own power. . ' ,
IIOTEl, OWNER
DESERTS WIFE
AND GIIILDREN
Harriet S. Hotchkiss Sues
Husband For Support of
Self and Babes.
Action begun today by Harriet S.
Hotchkiss In the superior court in be
half of herself and two minor children
disclose that Sanford Ik Hotchkiss, a
wealthy hotel owner of this city, gen
eral agent of the Prudential Casualty
Co with offices at 66 Cannon street.
and prominent resident of Milford, has
abandoned his wife and children.
Though the circumstances attending
the desertion are not set forth in the
papers with the clerk today the com
plaint recites that Mrs. Hotchkiss's
maiden name was Sanford, that they
were married on October 27, 1903, and
that she and her children were de
serted and abandoned on December 18,
1915. As a result rbe is now unable
to support herself and h- children.
Individual complaint with' .petition
to the court for a reasonable sum for
teducation of the children, and en: port
for all is made in her name and those
of her children: Sanford Louis Hotch
kiss, Jr., aged six of Mi'ford and Para
Sanford Hotchkiss, aged 11, of Mil
ford. Affidavits are eubmitted to show
that Sanford I Hotchkiss, the defend
ant, owns a one-sixth interest in the
Atlantic hotel, Bridgeport, an undi
vided ons-hajf interest in the Union
hotel, Bridgeport, ami an undivided
one-quarter interept In property at
Golden Hill and Water streets, for
merly the J .T. Shelton property. He
also owns 35 shares of. common stock
in the Smith-Comstock Co., of Bridge
port. '
THE YVEATHER
Forecast: Fair and slightly warmer
tonight; Wednesday increasing cloudl-
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., TUESDAY, AUGUST, 29, 1916
www, msm km
SIX CHANGES
ARE PLANNE
FOR CHARTER
Welfare Building Plans of
- Charities and Health
Boards Are At Variance
With the Existing Charter
Duties of Commissions.
i ;
Site For New Building
Agreed Upon 'is Said to Be
Near Main Street North of
Fairfield Avenue Health
Board to Have Most of
, Building.
Five, possibly six, charter changes
will have to be made before the chari
ties and health departments can -be
reorganized into a public welfare de
partment, and some of the functions
of, the charities department transfer
red to the other. It was learned yes
terday afternoon at a meeting of the
charities commissioners. .
In executive session the commis
sioners discussed plans for the pro
posed buildlngthat will house both
charities and' health departments. It
was finally decided that the charities
department' would need only ' about
one-third-of the new structure,
w- It wiU. be built somewhere north
of Ftrfrfield avenue, on or near Main
street. It was estimated that the
cost will be about $125,000, and the
commissioners do not know where
they're going to get $75,000 of this.
All the medical and surgical
branches of the charities department
will be transferred to the health de
partment. It was decided, with the
exception of one city .physician. Dr.
F. P. Carroll, whose duy It Is to1 visit
patients at Hillside home, will be re
tained as a member of the staff of the
charities department, but the other
city physicians. . the emergency hos
pital surgeons, clinical workers and
others y will be .transferred to the
health department. When physicians
are needed for the poor, it is expect
ed - they may be obtained from the
health department. '
To do this, It was found, about
half a dozen charter changes will be
necessary. Mayor Wilson is plan
ning -for referendums t the peo
ple. ' .
"This building has to be built pret
ty quickly," said President Behrens
of the board of charities.
However, he pointed out that It
will require travel and study, consum
ng possibly a month before Architect
Leonard Ashelm can make his plans.
Accordingly, a committee consisting
of President Behrens of the board of
charities; President Stevens of the
board of health, and Mayor Wilson,
was appointed to accompany the arch
itect while he studies up-to-date struc
tures. , The committee members were
given the power to name substitutes.
It Is expected that the committee
will have to travel In the Middle
West, as there are few buildings in
the East after which they care to pattern..-
' 7 -; .
Discussion of the site led po the
belief that a place considerably north
Lot Fairfield avenue is desired. It
was shown that the growth or tne city
tends that way and the bridges from
East Bridgeport will bring a large
number of persons into' that section
of the city.
. The board .dfdn't decide on the
name for the building. Objection"
was made to ''public welfare build-
lng." because, it was said, this term
would properly include the police and
fire departments. It Isn't likely, how
ever, that the charities department
will retain its present name.
HEAD OF HOLY GHOST
SISTERS RECOVERING
FROM TYPHOID FEVER
Mother Mary, head of the Sisters of
the Holy Ghost In this city, is reported
slightly improved today at St. Vin
cent's hospital where she has been
111 Of typhoid fever. Mother Mary
was stricken three weeks ago and
was removed to the hospital a week
ago.
The Sisters of the Holy Ghost,, an
order exiled from France, have a con
vent on Milne. street. They came to
the city about 12 years ago and their
work is among the poor of the city.
. Mother Mary has been head of the
local band for a littl- more than a
year. ,
AUTO AND TROMEY COLLIDE
In a collision between a trolley car
and an automobile at State and Main
streets about 8 o'clock.' last night, the
automobile owned and driven by T. G.
Funkie of 65 Wasnington place, was
greatly damaged, but none of the occupants-
was hurt. The ' trolley and
'automobile were turning the corner
going in opposite directions when the
automobile crashed into the trolley.
SEEK EXPERT TO
MANAGE HOUSING
FIRM'SVENTURE
Desirable Men Want Great
Salaries Investigators
Learn on Inquiry.
CITY PLANNER NOLEN
NOT AFTER POSITION
Directors of Plan to Allow
Rental As Well As Pur
chase of Homes.
The Bridgeport Housing Co. will not
be restricted to building houses for
sale but probably will rent as well, if
the-plans of some of its directors are
tarried out. Nor will any faction do
minate its finances if such a conting
ency can be avoided.
These facts became known today
when one of the prominent members
of the fidvisory -board disclosed the
fact that besides seeking one f the
best known builders of communities in
the country td- assume general super
vision of the financing, selection of
sites, building and administration of
the properties, 'full, details of the
financial plans had not been completed
by those in charge of that work.
It is likely that common stock will
be issued, rather than bonds which
would be first and second mortgages
on the property and more easily ac
quired for purposes of individual con
trol. . .
It also appears likely that the first
steps in the building operations. .will
be to erect a large group of houses
upon' the acreage purchase plan and
subdivide into- lots. A division of
opinion among the directors as to the
advisability of Venting or selling the
first Installment has been discussed.
It is conceded by all in private con
ference that the chief aim is to re
lieve congestion in this city. , Co
operative community plans have been
discussed but in some sections of the
directorate it is thought that they
have been unsatisfactory from a fi
nancial standpoint though extremely
(Continued on page 4)
WEALTHY MEN'S
CLUB DECLINING
THROUGH NEGLECT
Receivership For Exclusive
Ridgefield Country Club
Confirmed,
In a special session of the civil su
perior court for Fairfield county, held
this morning, Judge Webb confirmed
the appointment of Webster J. Davis
of Ridgefield as receiver for the- ex
clusive Ridgefield Country Club. '
The request previously submitted to
Judge Bennett and which was to have
been heard 'before Judge Curtis, un
avoidably detained from sitting, was
made to the court by a coterie of
New York's best known society men,
polo and golf players, because it'was.
feared that, through a failure of the
club's board of governors to meet for
nearly three years,, there would be a
great waste of funds. One officer,
the treasurer, directs the club.
' In confirming the. receivership un
der bonds of f 1,000, Judge Webb also
appointed George B.' Clark and Chas.
F. Hoyt of Ridgefield, appraisers. ,
The complainants, all of whom live
In Ridgefield and most of whom are
wealthy New York residents', are:
Charles A. Hamilton, Samuel Keeler,
Albert H. Storer, N.H. Schaffer, Mil
let B. Cary, J. Ogden Weir, Newbold
Morris. William S. Hawk, George P.
IngersoU, of 'New York;" Henry H.
McHarg of Stamford and Charles S.
Rockwell, Meriden.
It is believed that an attempt will
be made to avoid threatened fore
closure proceedings against the prop
erty and to revive the prestige of the
club. - . . i
BANDITS IN
TEXAS RAID
ABE KILLED
El Paso, Aug. 29 A band of
Mexicans raided the Big Bend
mine near -Torlingua, Tex.,
Monday, and ' destroyed the
mine and machinery. A troop
of the Sixth United States cav
alry attacked the raiders; it is
reported, killed seven and chas
ed the remainder over the border.
'rams austbiar
President Addresses Joint Session of Congress i
This Afternoon, After Railway Executives)
Turn Down His Proposal For Adjustment of
Differences Employes Reject Counter Pro
position Off ered By Presidents and Order That
Strike Be Effective Labor Day Morning, Un
less Settlement Satisfactory to the Men is Ac-1
complished.
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY
Negotiations between the railroads and the brotherhoods
through President Wilson were definitely broken off.
The brotherhood leaders definitely ordered the strike to
begin at 7 a. m. Labor Day unless the order is countermanded
and declared that only a settlement favorable to the men could
change it.
President Wilson prepared to go before. Congress in joint
session with the proposals for new laws to prevent the strike:
The latest authentic outline of the proposals is as follows: ,
1 Increase of the interstate
commerce commission from seven
to nine members.
' 2 An eight hour law for rail
road employes in actual interstate
transportation.
3 To empower the federal board
of mediation to folly investigate ,
operation of an eight hoar day on
railroads..'.
4 To - empower the interstate
Washington Aug. 29-rWhile President Wilson . was an- :
nouncing tKahe ynHJay the railway strike eitualTbrnfcro
Congress at 2:30 o'clock today, the brotheriipo"d"1eadt-rs j"eject-.w
ed the latest proposition of the committee of railway presidents
and actually ordered the strike to begin at 7 a. m., Labor Day,
unless a settlement satisfactory to them is reached in the mean-;
time.'.'" " ' . ' ' . , i
Their previous order for the strike was tentative and re-'
quired a secret signal to put it into effect" Unless a settlement
satisfactory to the labor leaders is reached before that time or
n nl ao PrAsirtftnt. Wilsnn and finneress find, some wav to Dre-
went it, the strike would start
Out to Avoid Legal Restraint '
' ' '
The action of thB labor leaders today admittedly was taken
in the belief that means were being sought to prevent the strike
actually being called. ,
Bv their action thev believe they have anticipated any legal
processes which might be brought against them. .
President Wilson announced nis decision xo aaaress con
gress in joint session at 2:30 o'clock soon,after the decision of
the-labor leaders became known. .. , .
v. Railroad Executives End Negotiations
Direct negotiations between the railroad executives ajid4hi
mnin,rD f hi-mio-h President Wilson were closed to'tfay when tha
cuijjivj
executives refused to accede to
i '
day by Mr. Wilson ana presenieu iw aum u. 5io;u.u.
position containing another argument for arbitration. .
rrv, dofDmont. nrfisfinted to President Wilson by the com-
X ilV OlUlViuvv j-.- .
mittee of eight denies that the judgment of society favors an
ht-hour dav and declares that arbitration is the only proper)
way of settling industrial disputes. ( ; .' ......
Presidents Turn,
t
: : f tv.a oio-ht-hiir dav but DostDoninar its effec-
tiveness for a year pending investigation, was rejected by the
railroad executives at tne coniereuce una '""8-
tv. :r, nt ihA railroad presidents: taken in connection
with the strike order of the employes, left President Wilson no
alternative but to go. to Congress
strike by legislation. They were
pnt fnr half an hour.
, .-,iMr. it was under-!
eroiuo
stoou, w.i. ..6- ---- - wn--
ligation - ort hla
legislative program but support u
eight-hour, proposal.
Every errort wiu ; -
said, to get separate votes
proposition in tongrew
were confident that could be done. A.
B Garretson,' spokesman ior i
said: i i
' "The Canaidlan compulsory Investi
gation has proved the greatest throt
tle to labor that ever has been de
vised. Invariably and I apeak from
experience in dealing, with railways,
the railroad heads have used this de
lay guaranteed by them by law to
prepare for a strike.
"The eight hour day proposal falling
to carry, as it will of course, any ref
tn wn stpa would not "mbrace
our present demands and not be whol
ly satisfactory to us. It would have
the effect, however, of bringing the
unorganised 80 per cent, of railway
labor of which the railway heads
speak eo feelingly -nder an eitrht hour
day. It would be a step in the'iight
dinictton."
In order to have an effect on the
present . proposed strike, the Presi
dent's legislative program would have
to pass tooth houses at.d neeome a law
before next Monday morning. Once
the men have left their trains, com
pulsory Investigation would not af-
PRICE TWO CENTS
-1
4
J!
IN RAILWAY STRIKE CRISIS
commerce commission to consider
the eight, hour day in connection
with' making rates.
. & A measure similar to the Ca
nadian .industrial disputes act, for
an investigation of all disputes be
tween railroads and their emploves.
6 A measure empowering tM
President to operate trains with
the primary object of providing the
'American troops on the Mexican
border with food.
Labor Day without further notice.
, , - . t
a proposal made to them yester-
1 1 1 I n I rm n n ft 4 V n 1 1.
Down Proposal
Wilson for a proposal includ-
in a nmu h..m ..c
in conference with the Presi-
'' . f
feet them. In the opinion or urotner-
nood ofncials. Tha officials declined to
discuss this phase or tne euuuuon
This statement to the public was Is
sued by tne committee t on raljway
presidents:
"We are unable, after the most ear
nest .consideration, to agree with the
proposal of the President of the Unit
ed States, which" is that we -accept
Without arbitration'the substitution
of an eight-hour day for the present
ten-hour day In all of the existing
practices and agreements.' This is the
main noint in controversy and we
cannot surrender it without an. oppor
tunity to te .heard in some lorm oi
fair arbitration. x '
"We do not assent to the statement
that 'the eight-hour day now undoubt- .
edly has the sanction of the Judgment
of society In its favor,' We behve
that society has not yet rendered its
Judgment upon this subject.
;'We are not in this controversy,
however, dealing with the conditions t
relating to the eight-hour day in th '
industrial world. (The difference be.
(Continued on Page 4.)
NOTICE
President Wilson's address to
Congress today on the Kailroa
strike situation will bo found on
Pago Four of The Farmer . '
7
