President Wilson Addresses Joint Session
HARRISBURG XJh^LBORAJPHI
LXXXV— No. 199
WILSON ADDRESSES
CONGRESS ; ACTUAL
STRIKE CALL IS SENT
Breaking Off of Negotiation s Between Railroads and the
Brotherhoods Through President Causes Him toPlace
Delicate Situation Before Joint Session of Senate and
House; Outlines Laws to Prevent Strike
TIEUP DEFINITELY ORDERED TO BEGIN AT
7 O'CLOCK ON THE MORNING OF LABOR DAY
Measures Suggested Include Eight-Hour Law, Investiga
tion of All Disputes Between Railroads and Their Em
ployes, and Operation of Trains to Provide Guards
men With Food; Brotherhoods Oppose Proposed
Canadian Plan
SUMMARY OF DEVELOPMENTS IN
THE RAILROAD STRIKE SITUATION
Negotiations between the railroads and the brotherhoods
through President Wilson were definitely broken off.
The brotherhood leaders definitely ordered the strike to
begin at 7 a. m., Labor Day, unless the order is countermanded
and declared that only a settlement favorable to the men could
change it.
President Wilson appeared before Congress in joint
session at 2.30 o'clock this afternoon with proposals for new
laws to prevent the strike. The latest authentic outline of the
proposals is as follows:
Increase of the Interstate Commerce Commission from
seven to nine members.
An eight-hour law for railroad employes in actual inter-
State transportation.
To empower the Federal Board of Mediation to fully in
vestigate operation of an eight-hour day on railroads.
To empower the Interstate Commerce Commission to con
sider the eight-hour day in connection with making rates.
A measure similar to the Canadian Industrial Disputes
Act for an investigation of all disputes between railroads and
their employes.
A measure empowering the President to operate trains
with the primary object of providing the American troops on
the Mexican border with food.
The brotherhood leaders favor the eight-hour day features
but oppose the proposal to adopt the Canadian plan.
The proposal of the railroads, framed last Friday and un
officially published at the time, that pending an investigation
of the controversy the Interstate Commerce Commission keep
accounts of operation based on the eight-hour day and the ten
hour pay and later make an award, was formally communicated
to the men this morning.. They gave every evidence of re
jecting it as had been expected.
Washington, Aug. 29. —President Wilson laid the railway strike
situation before Congress this afternoon in an address to both
houses assembled in joint session. The president told Congress of
his efforts to bring the railroad managers and the men into some
sort of agreement and saying he was powerless to do more, he
asked Congress to enact certain specific legislation to deal with the
situation now and in the future.
Pointing out the distress and hardships which a nation-wide
strike would bring upon the country, the President asked Congress
to empower him to draft into the service of the United States the
very managers and men who have been unable to adjust their dif
ferences so that the government may operate the railroads in case of
military necessary.
(The full text of President Wilson's address before Congress
will be found on Page 10.)
Washington, Aug. 29.—While President Wilson was announc
ing that he would lay the railway strike situation before Congress
at 2.30 o'clock to-day the brotherhood leaders rejected the latest
proposition of the committee of railway presidents and actually
ordered the strike to begin at 7 a. ill., Labor Day unless a settle
ment satisfactory to them is reached in the meantime.
Their previous order for the strike was tentative and required a
secret signal to put it into effect. Unless a settlement satisfactory
to the labor leaders is reached before that time or unless President
Wilson and Congress find some way to prevent it the strike would
start Labor Day without further notice.
The labor leaders admittedly took their action the first thing
to-day in the belief that some means was being sought to prevent
the strike actualiv being called. By their action they think they have
anticipated any legal processes which might be brought against
Ihcm.
THE WEATHER,
For Harrlsburg unit vlrlnltyi Part
ly cloudy anil nurmer to-night
aid Wrdnnwlßj.
For Fusteru I'ennaylvnnln i Partly
cloudy and warmer to-night anil
Wednesday* llftbt, vurlablc winds.
River
The Susqiiehnnna river and all Its
tributaries will remain nearly
stationary. .4 stage of about H.S
feet In Indicated for Hurrlsburu
Wednesday morning.
Temperatnrei 8 a. ra-, ftfl.
Sum Rises, 5:20 a. m.j nets. (Si 42
p. m.
Moon i First quarter, September 4,
lItSA p. m.
River Stagei 3.8 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday - * Weather
Highest temperature, (11.
Lowest temperature. 68.
Mean temperature, A3.
Normal temperature, 70.
BY CAHHIKRS (I C'EJITS A WEEK.
SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
Will Fight Investigation
Krolherhood leaders, it was under
stood to-day, will tight the compulsory
investigation feature of President Wil
son 1 !' legislative program, but support
his eight-hour proposal.
Every effort will he made, it was
said, to get separate votes on the
propositions in Congress and leaders
were confident that could he done. A
R. G&.rretson, spokesmen for the men!
expressed himself as strongly opposed
to the compulsory investigation plan
and while ho did not entirely approve'
of the proposed eight-hour bill, he
raid that it would bring benefit's to
such numbers of nonunion men that
the railroads doubtless would oppose
it, and he thought the brotherhoods
would be behind it.
Throttle to Labor
"The Canadian compulsory investi
gation plan," he said, "has proved the
greatest throstle to labor that ever has
been devised. Invariably—and X speak
from experience in dealing with rail
ways—the railroad heads have used
thin delay guaranteed to them by law
to prepare for a strike.
"The eight-hour day proposal fali
{ Continued on Page 10] i
HARRISBURG, PA., TUESDAY EVENING. AUGUST 29, 1916.
WORK ON RIVER DAM RUSHED TO
COMPLETION FOR FIRST KIPONA
. u u " de , r what difficulties the well-known "water dogs" of the First Ward
labored during the last week to finish the river dam across the Susquehanna
at Dock street in time for the rirst annual Kipona is indicated by the accom
panying etching. Many of the old slabs that hud been made last year and
which had been piled on the river bottom below the dam had to be raised by
derrick. At least ten new concrete slabs were made for the purpose. The
last slab was swung into place at 11 o'clock this morning
LET THEM STRIKE
SAYS M'CALEB
Pennsylvania Railroad Said to
Be Prepared For Threatened
Emergency
■ "Let them strike. They are doing
it!" said Superintendent William B.
McCaleb to-day. The head of the
Philadelphia division of the Penn
sylvania Railroad was attending a dis
cipline conference when shown the
dispatch from Washington, D. C., an
nouncing that the strike would start
Monday morning at 7 o'clock.
Superintendent McCaleb would not
talk further on the strike question. He
said that plans to be followed by the
Pennsylvania Railroad . Company
tContinued on Pase 7]
Mr. and Mrs. Hughes Take
Long Hike in Rockies
Estes Park, Colo., Aug. 2. With
campaign matters temporarily laid
aside, Charles E. Hughes, Republican
nominee, and Mrs. Hughes made a
long tramp in the Colorado Rockies
yesterday. Both are ardent devotees
of this form of recreation and to
gether have climbed some of the most
difficult peaks in the Swiss Alps. They
greatly enjoyed the hike.
During his brief vacation here the
nominee has arranged for a complete
rest before resuming his speaking tour.
Me will arrive at Hampton Beach, N.
H., on September 7, and make his first
address in that State on that date. He
will wind up the tour with a night
address at Rockland, Me., on Septem
ber 9. He will spend Sunday, Septem
ber 10, in Boston, and on September
11 will open his New York State cam
paign with a speech at Syracuse.
Progressive Chiefs to
Stump West For Hughes
Chicago, Aug. 29. Speakers to be
sent into the Central and Western
States to campaign for Hughes and
Fairbanks will be about equally di
vided between Republicans and Pro
gressives. Among the well-known
Progressives who will make tours of
these sections are Colonel Roosevelt,
James R. Garfield, Raymond Robins
and Harold 1.,. Tckes.
At an all-day meeting of the Repub
lican Western Campaign Committee
reports were received from every
State between Ohio and the Pacific
Coast.
To Dedicate Camp Curtin
Memorial Church Dec. 3
The new Camp Curtin Memorial
Methodist Episcopal Church, now in
course of erection on the site of old
Camp Curtin of Civil War fame, will
be dedicated December 3, It was an
nounced this morning by the Rev A
S. Williams, pastor of the church
A week of interesting services will
make memorable the event. Bishop
William M. McDowell, of Washington
D. C.. will preach and dedicate the
church. Bishop William Burt, of Bufl
folo, N. Y., will preach December 10
and on Monday night. December 111
he will lecture on "Americanism " a
subject of interest to patriotic societies
Another interesting event of the dedi
cation week will be a patriotic enter
tainment In honor of the Grand Arm.v
posts of the city, together with a bean
soup campfire.
The Rev. Mr. Williams on Septem
ber 6 will make the principal address
at a celebration In York marking the
tenth anniversary of the founding of
Salem Square, a park in that city. The
Rev. Mr. Williams was chairman of
the citizens' committee which raised
funds for the purchase of the park
ground.
WORK ON DAM
FINISHED TODAY
Last Slabs on Structure Placed
at 11 O'clopk This
Morning
The city dam across the Susque
hanna at Dock street was finally com
pleted at 11 o'clock to-day.
The last of the ten recently moulded
slabs of concrete were laid in place
this morning by a crew of South Har
risburg rivermen who had been work
ing on the job for the last ten days.
City Commissioner W. H. Lynch had
promised to have the work completed
in time for the annual Kipona, the big
regatta and carnival to be held under
the direction of the Greater Harris
burg Navy and the job was rushed
ahead with that idea in mind. Many
of the old slabs had been made last
year but some new ones were turned
out during the past week.
J Continued on Page 7]
Six Robbers Blow Safes
of Two Banks at Same
Time and Get $13,000
By Special Correspondence
Danville. 111., Aug. 29. Six rob
bers blew the safes of two banks at
Homer, 111., near here early to-day and
escaped in an automobile with $13,-
000. A general alarm has been sent
out.
The robbers worked quickly. Their
plans were well laid as the explosions
at the two banks were simultaneous
and were so muffled that only a few
people in the town were awakened.
Eighty-five hundred was taken from
the Raynor and Rabb bank and $4,500
from the Citizens bank. There was
some delay in spreading the alarm as
the gang cut all wires into town ex
cept one before entering. The banks
could not open this morning until
money had been shipped to them from
.Danville.
Pennypacker Improved
but His Illness Is Still
Reported Critical
By Associated Press
Philadelphia, Aug 1 . 29. K'ornier
Governor F -inypacker. who has been
critically ill at his home in Schwenk
ville since Sunday, was reported im
proved to-day. Members of his imme
diate family are in constant attendance
at his bedside, however, as he is not
beyond the critical stage of his ill
ness.
Dr. Allen issued a statement to-day
in which he said the patient had pass
ed a comfortable night and was able
to take some nourishment. Mr Pen
nypacker is conscious at all times and
his mind is alert. While in the first
stage of his illness, due to uremic
poisoning, his death seemed a matter
of hours, the former Governor had
rallied sufficiently to-day to give the
attending physician hope for recovery
Mr. Pennypackcr is 73 years old.
INCONSPICUOUS MR. TAFT
fly Special Correspondence
Chicago, Aug. 29. Former Presi
dent William H. Taft, here to attend
the convention of the American Bar
Association, which opens Wednesday
told reporters that Chicago convinced
him he was out of politics.
"I walked four blocks through the
downtown streets and made one pur
chase in a store without anyone ap
parently recognizing me," the former
President said.
TEXAS QUARANTINED
By Associated Press
San Antonio, Texas, Aug. 29. The
Texas health board has declared a
state quarantine to arrest the spread
of infantile paralysis. Children under
10 years of age entering the state must
show certificates of good health.
ROMPER DAY IS
CALLED OFF BY
DIXON'S ORDER
State Health Commissioner
Fears Spread of Infantile
Paralysis
DISAPPOINTS THOUSANDS
Possibility That First Annual
Kiponu Will Be Prohibited
by State
Romper Day. the big annual gath
ering of Harrisburg's thousands of
playground youngsters scheduled for
Friday at Reservoir park, was sud
denly and unexpectedly called off to
day by order of Dr. Samuel Dixon,
State health commissioner.
Fear of further spread of infantile
paralysis was given as the State health
officer's reason.
Plans for the biggest gathering of
its kind ever held on Reservoir slopes
had practically been completed and
the youngsters had been looking for
ward to a big time.
Playground celebrations .to mark
the close of the seanoii for 1916 will
not be tabooed according to the in
structions received from the State
health department by the city park
authorities and J. K. Staples, play
ground supervisor, has arranged for
the individual playground programs.
A meeting of the playground in
structors has been called by Super
visor Staples for to-morrow morning
when 'he unexpected development
will be explained.
The notice from the State depart
ment was received with little less than
[Continued 011 I'ngc B.]
John M. Major, Veteran
of Two Wars, Is Dead
John M. Major, a veteran of the
Civil and Spanish-American wars, and
a life-long resident of Harrisburg,
died this morning at the Masonic
Home, Elizabethtown. He celebrated
his eightieth birthday anniversary
last Sunday. Mr. Major had been in
tailing health for a year, but was not
seriously ill until yesterday when he
took to his bed.
The survivors are his wife, Mrs. ]
Susan Major, daughter of the latei
Major David Muniraa, a well known I
Harrisburg lawyer of the early days,
and one son, Edgar M. Major, u travel
ing salesman. 223 South Thirteenth
street. Funeral arrangements will be
announced to-morrow on the return
of the son to this city. The body will
be brought to the son's home at 10
o'clock to-morrow morning.
John M. Major was for a number of
years a notary public in the office of
Major Mumma. Subsequently he was
secretary for the East Harrisburg
Cemetery Association. He was in the
Civil war, serving in the First Penn
sylvania Emergency regiment, and
was first lieutenant of the Governor's
Troop in the Spanish-American war.
One of the organizers of this organi
zation in 1891, ho served as second
lieutenant until his retirement in 1904.
He did field service in the Governor's
Troop, National Guard of Pennsylva
nia, at Homestead in 1892; Hazleton,
1897, and in the Schuylkill and Lacka
wanna district in 1901 and 1902. Lieu
tendant Major was a member of Post
58, G. A. Ft., and was senior vice com
mander and sergeant major of the
Post at Intervals. He was a member
of the Association of the Veterans of
Foreign Service, and was a prominent
member of Perseverance Lodge of
Masons. He was been at the Masonic
Home. Elizabethtown, nearly two
years.
GUARDSMEN VOTING
By Associated Press
El Paso, Texas, Aug. 29.—Membens
of the South Carolina National Guard
contingent on station here are casting
ballots to-day in their state and county
primaries. Under a ruling from the
Attorney General of South Carolina,
qualified voters of the state have a
right to participate in the primary.
When counted, the vote will be-cer
tified to the authorities in South Caro
lina.
REVENGE IN BANANA PEEL
Hollidaysburg, p a ., Aug. 29.
Carrying out the mandates of the De
partment of Health, Health Officer
Charles Curran expelled several hun
dred children from the movies. In his
way home in the dark Mr. Curran slip
ped and fell on a banana peel spread
on the sidewalk by children in his
neighborhood. The Board of Healtn
physician fears Curran's ribs were
fractured.
$30,000 VANISH IN MAILS
Glens Falls, N. Y., Aug. 29. Dis
appearance from the mails of $30,000
in currency became known here with
the arrivals of post office inspectors to
conduct an investigation.
The money disappeared Tuesday
night. It was being sent by the Lake
George National Bank to New York
With other mail, it was placed on
board a trolley car at Lake George,
and could not be found when the car
reached French Mountain, five miles to
the south.
THE DAY IN CONGRESS
By Associated rress
Washington, D. C., Aug. 29
Senate —Met at 11 a. m. Adopted
resolution for joint session of Oon
crv.ss at 2.30 o'clock to hear President |
\\ ilson's address on railroad crisis \
Resumed debate on revenue bill. Sen- i
aior Reed, in speech, reviewed achieve
ments. of President Wilson's adminis
tration.
House—Met at 11 a. m. Prepared
for President's aHdress in the after
noon.
GREAT ART COLLECTION LOOTED
New York. Aug. 29.—-A great art
collection somewhere in New York
city has been looted of objects valued !
at nearly $50,000. The robbery took'
place on July 29 and became generally
known to-day through circulation by
the police of a circular warning pawn
brokers, and dealers in antiques and
art objects to be on the lookout for the :
stolen goods. Most of the articles de
scribed in the police circular are of
jade and crystal and of ancient Chinese i
manufacture. The list includes eighty- '
three articles
ZEIL FUNERAL
ON THURSDAY
AT CATHEDRAL
Poliee Chief Zeil Dies in Har
risburg Hospital From
Appendicitis Attack
ILL ONLY TWO DAYS
4| ' ,
•i w '
'f*. % ii
J. THOMAS ZEIL
Chief of Police.
I repressive funeral services for Chief
of Police J. Thomas Zeil, who died last
night in the Harrisburg Hospital, will
be bekl on Thursday morning at »
o'clock in St. Patricks Cathedral.
Prior to the services a double guard of
honor, composed of members of the
city police force, will be stationed in
the Cathedral.
To-morrow from noon until 9 o'clock
in the evening the body may be viewed
at the home. 257 Briggs street. A
guard or honor will also be on duty
during these hours.
Complete arrangements for the
funeral have not been made. There
will be ten active pallbearers, includ
ing a member of the I-oyal Order of
Moose, officers of the police force and
intimate friends of the official. Burial
[Continued on Page 7]
f U. S. TROOPS KILL SEVEN MEXICAN RAIDERS I
1 El Paso, Tex., Aug. 29. —A band ol armed Mexicans £
? raided the Bis; Eend mine near Terlingua, Texas, yesterday I
I and destroyed the mine and machinery. A troop of the J
a Sixth United States Cavalry attacked the raiders, killed T
I seven and chased the remainder over the border. |
WITHDRAWS RECEIVERSHIP f
Boston, An'-. 25.—United States Circuit Judge Wil- &
| liam L. Putnam to-day withdrew from the Boston and f
f Mt ad receivership proceedings because cf a bill £
y filed by counsel for minority stockholdets, which, accord- 1
I ing to Judge Putnam, attacked the integrity of the court. JL
I
? MAY POSTPONE KIPONA TOO? T
1 Harrisburg.—Until a late hour this afternoon the State I
i Health authorities had taken no action relative to calling off i *
the Kipona celebration on the Susquehanna, Labor Day, but
Dr. B. F. Royer, chief medical inspector said he thought • >
the same conditions which applied to the Romper Day cele- '
bration should apply to the river regatta and that the cele- i >
bration should at least be postponed. 1
♦ •
1 •;
J 1 >
<' MARRIAGi LICENSES
' >
I ,ra Itebuck, Kliagomtuun, and Lftssle Knorr, Hougli-aod-Ready.
cuuuty,
Ira Mcrrftl lieinmlnKcr, city, and lUn lonn Tsclsoi»p», I'enbrook. |
12 PAGES CITY EDITION
RUMANIANS JOIN
FORCES WITH RUSS
IN TRANSYLVANIA
Troops of Czar Came From
Bukowina to Meet Them; Fu
rious Battle in Mountains
KING TO LEAD ARMY
Bulgaria Will Not Declare
War; French Advance on
Verdun Front
By Associated Press
Zurich, Aug. 29.—Rumanian troops
which have been concentrated at Jassy,
near the Russian frontier, entered
Tron»ylvanla at a point to the west of
Piatra, and, according to information
receive here, are reported to have
Joined forces with Russian troops com
ins from Bukawina.
Bondon, AUK. 29. —Desperate fight
ing on the border between Rumania
and Hungary is reported in an Ex
change Telegraph dispatch from Berne,
Switzerland. The Rumanians, the mes
sage says, are making furious efforts
to capture the important mountain
passes. This information, the dispatch
says, is contained in a telegram from
Austrian headquarters published in tho
Bund, of Berne.
Bucharest, Ang. 29.—King Ferdi
nand has ordered the general mo
bilization of the Rumanian army.
[Continued on Page 2.]
Great-Grandaughter of
Governor Findlay Dies
Special to the Telegraph
Hagerstown, Md., Aug. 29. Mrs.
Mary Van Bear Wright, wife of Robert
R. Wright and a great-granddaughter
of William Findlay, former Governor
of Pennsylvania, died yesterday at her
home near Williamsport, this county,
after an illness of a year. Mrs. Wright
was born at Cornwall Furnace, Pa.,
and was a'daughter of Casper Shunk,
who was a descendant of a former Gov
ernor of Pennsylvania. Her mother
was Mary Irwin Van Bear, daughter of
; Matthew Van Bear. She was a mem
ber of the Presbyterian Church and ts
survived by her husband, a daughter,
Mrs. Alexander Breckenridge, of Sum
merville, Ky., and a son, Robert V. L.
Wright.
