I Ways Metal Pnces ajV V fVv A VI SflY t V V; V V 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I
v II I v f (J t Tl lall llll I Li ....... .iiGK. .,.
9 ' . Vri Tlfc warmer tonight In north central por- 'H
I 73 FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER, ti0P' ,
Forty-sixth Year-No. 207. PrIce Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, AUGUST 29, 1916. Entered as Second-Class Matter at the Postofflce, Ogden, Utah." 11
fi - " " . H
President Seeks Power to Operate I
The Railroads in Case of a Strike I
! Congress Is Asked to
Enact Legislation to
Deal With Situation
, A summary of developments in
Hie strike situation follows:
; Negotiations between railroads
i and brotherhoods through Presi
' dent Wilson definitely broken off.
,' Brotherhood leaders definitely
; ordered the strike to begin at 7
' a. m. Labor Day unless the order
is countermanded and declared
j that only a settlement favorable to
the men could change it.
President Wilson prepared to go
before congress in joint session at
2 30. o'clock this afternoon witli
proposals for new laws to prevent
the strike. An outline of the pro
! posals is as follows:
Increase of the Interstate Com
merce Commission from seven to
nine members,
j An eight-hour law for railroad
; employes.
I To empower the federal board
of mediation to investigate opera-
tion of ail eight-hour day.
1 To empower the Interstate Com
merce Commission to consider the
,j eighthour day in connection with
making rates.
: A message similar t6 the Cana
: diau disputes act for an investiga
!i tion of all disputes between all
"i railroads and their employes.
A A message empowering the
f) president to operate trains with
'4 the primary object of providing
j the American troops on the Mexl
r can border wltb food.
The brotherhood leaders favor
i the eight-hour day features, but
& oppose the proposal to adopt the
. Canadian plan.
'j Washington, Aug. 29. President
Wilson laid the railway strike sltua
i;, tion before congress this afternoon m
! an address to both houses assembled
j in joint session. The president told
) congress of his efforts to bring the
j railroad managers and the men into
some sort of agreement and saying
he was powerless to do more, he ask-
Ed congress to enact legislation to
? flcal with the situation.
Pointing out the distress and hard
X Bhlps which a nation-wide strike
would bring upon the country, the
president asked congress to empow
er him to draft into the service of
tho United States the very managers
and men who have been unable to
adjust their differences so that the
government map operate the rail
roads in case of military necessity.
1 , He proposed that congress first en
large the membership of the Inter
state Commerce Commission to equip
it to deal with larger situations; sec
ond, that an eight-hour day be
established for all trainmen in in
terstate commerce; third, that a com--
mission investigate the effect of the
: eight-hour day; fourth that the inter
' state Commerce Commission cons
or the Increased cost of the eight
hour day in making rates, and fiitn,
amend the mediation law to prevent
'i strikes or lockouts while labor
I troubles are being investigated. I he
1 sixth proposal was a law to empower
j the president to operate the raii-
roads In time of necessity.
How these recommendations arc to
J . . , I TWilcnn Init
A oe earned out, lTmcm,
entirely in tho hands of congress.
' Strike Day Positively Set.
' Just before the president went to
'1 address congress, it because known
V that the strike leaders had positively
: called the strike for Labor Day un
less a favorable settlement was reacn-
ed before. Tho committee of railway
?' presidents made a public statement
.! of their position, declining to accept
4- President Wilson's plan and giuns
(their reason. , . -
"They have thought It best,' refer
ring to the railroad managers in his
address to congress, 'that they should
be forced to yield if they must yield,
." not by counsel but by the suffering
of the country. i,am
"While my conferences with tnem
i1 were in progress," the president con
h tlnued, "when to all outward ap-i-
pearance these conferences naa
!' come to a standstill, the represent.
; atlves of tho brotherhoods suddenly
j acted and set the strike for tne
ij fourth of September." ,
Thus President Wilson summarized
i; his efforts and added: ,
j' "But I could only propose. I coum
;; not govern the will of others who
took an entirely different view of tne
' circumstances of tho case, who oven
I refused to admit that the circum-
stances were what they have turned
f out to be."
i The four brotherhood leaders were
:- guests of Speaker Clark in hiB gai
il lery; other leaders of the men were
in other galleries and the railroad
1 managers were scattered about,
i Crowd Cheers Uproariously.
Mrs. Wilson, accompained by tJo
,'. ambassador to Great Britain, vuer
i Hines Page, and the ambassador to
France, William C. Sharp, vns in Vie
i) I)resident's reserved apace. SGei
members of the cabinet and some
. justices of the supreme court aiso
I were present. Tho president was
I greeted with uproarious cheers as he
It entered. He began speaking at -.w
I: o'clock. Speaking slowly and dis-
Hi
tinctly he outlined the situation con
fronting the country from tho failure
of the negotiations. There was
tense silence in the chamber as he
began.
Applause greeted the president's
declaration that he regarded it as a
practical certainty" that the railroads
would be "ultimately obliged to ac
cept the eight-hour day by the con
certed action of organized labor,
backed by the favorable judgment of
society.
President Wilson's Address.
He spoke as follows:
"Gentlemen of the Congress: .
"I have como to you to seek your
assistance in dealing with a very
grave situation which has arisen out
ol the demand of the employes of the
railroads engaged in freight train
service that they be granted an eight
hour working day, safeguarded by
payment by an hour and half service
for every hour of work beyond tho
eight.
"The matter has been agitated for
more than a year. The public has
been made familiar with the demands
of the men and the arguments urged
in favor of them, and even more fa
miliar with the objections of the rail
roads and their counter demand that
certain provisions now enjoyed by
their men and certain bases of pay
ment worked out through many years
on contest be reconsidered, especial
ly in their relation to the adoption of
an eight-hour day. The matter came
some three weeks ago to a final is
sue and resulted in a complete dead
lock between the parties. The means
TtfovTdecT15y lawTor 'mediation of the
r.n..i wl Arlii rn 1 1 nn
controversy iuhcu uuu .
for which law also provides, was re
fused by the employes of the rail
ways. The railway executives pro
posed that the demands of the men
be submitted In their entirety to ar
bitration along with certain questions
of re-adjustment as to pay and condi
tions of employes which seemed to
them to be either closely associated
with the demands, or to call for re
consideration on their own merits;
the men firmly declined arbitration,
especially if any of their established
provisions were by that means to be
drawn again in question. The law in
the matter put no compulsion upon
them The 400.000 men from whom
the demands proceeded, had voted to
strike if their demands were refused;
the strike was imminent, it has since
been set for the 4th of September
next It affects the men who man
the freight trans on practically every
railway In the country. The freight
service throughout the United States
must stand still until their places are
filled if, Indeed it should prove possi
ble to fill them at all. Cities will be
cut off from their food supplies, the
wholo commerce of the nation will be
paralyzed, men of every sort and oc
cupation will be thrown out of em
ployment, countless thousands will in
all likelihood be brought, it may be,
to the very point of starvation and a
tragical national calamity brought on
to do added to the other distresses of
the time because no basis of accom
modation or settlement has been
found.
Reviews Mediation Efforts,
"just so soon as it became evident
that mediation under the existing law
had failed and that arbitration had
been rendered impossible by the at
titude of the men, I considered it my
duty to confer with tho representa
tives of both the railways and the
brotherhoods and myself offer media
tion not as an arbitrator, but mere
ly as spokesman of the nation in the
interest of justice in deed J
friend of both ParUes, but not as
indue only as representative of iuu.
000 000 of men, women and children,
vlio would pay the price the incalcul
able price of los sand suffering should
these few men Insist upon approach
w and concluding the matters in
controversy between them merely as
employers and employes, rather than
as patriotic citizens of the United
Stafes. looking before and after and
accenting tho larger responsibility
which the public would put upon
seemed to me, in considering
the subject matter of the controversy
Sat the whole spirit of the time and
Ihe preponderant evidence of recent
tho Pre.l'" lrlt gpoke for the eight
noSd5. M heCen adjudged by
C thought and experience of recent
1 no n thing upon which society is
taStied in insisting as in the inter
im of health, efficiency, contentment
, f general Increase of economic
vtor ThS whole presumption of
nSrn experience would, it seemed
S me be In its favor, whether there
?as arbitration or not, and the debat
able Mints to settle were those which
Sose out of the acceptance of ehe
eLht-hour day rather than those
which effected its establishment. I,
therefore, proposed that the elght
, hour day be adopted by the railway
managements and put into practice for
, Se Jresent as a substitute for the ex
fSlne ten hour of pay and service;
1 that I should appoint, with the per-
mission of'the congress, a small com
mission to observe the result of the
change, carefully studying the figures
of the altered operating costs; not
only, but also the conditions of labor
under which the men worked and the
operation of their existing agree
ments with the railroads with Instruc
tions to report the facts as they found
them to the congress at the earliest
possible day, but without recommend
ation; and after the facts had thus
been disclosed and adjustment should
in some orderly manner be sought of
all the matters now left unadjusted
between the railroad managers and
the men.
Supreme Court Decision.
"These proposals were exactly in
line, it is interesting to note, with the
position taken by the supreme court
of the United States when appealed
to, to protect certain litigants from
the financial losses which they con
fidently expected if they should sub
mit to the regulation of their charges
and of their methods of service by
public legislation. The court has held
that it would not undertake to form
a judgment upon forecasts, but could
base its action only upon actual ex
perience; that it must be supplied
with facts, not with calculations and
opinions, however scientifically at
tempted. To undertake to arbitrate
the question of the adoption of an
eight-hour day in the light of results
merely estimated and predicted would
be to undertake an enterprise of con
jecture. No wise man could under
take it. or if he did undertake it,
coiildfeel assured of his. conclusions
His Offer to Railroads.
"I unhesitatingly offered the friend
ly services to the railway managers I
to see to it that justice was done to
tho railroads in the outcome. I felt
warranted in assuring them no obsta
cle of law would be suffered to stand
in the way of their Increasing their
revenues to meet the expeditures re
sulting from the change so far as the
development of their business and of
their administrative efficiency did not
prove adequate to meet them. The
public and the representatives of the
public, I felt justified in assuring
them, were disposed to nothing but
justice in such cases and were will
ing to serve those who served them.
"The representatives of the broth
erhoods accepted the plan; but the
representatives of tho railroads de
clined to accept it. In the fact of
what I cannot but regard as the prac
tical certainty, that they will be ulti
mately obliged to accept the eight
hour day by the concerted action of
organized labor, backed by tho favor
able judgment of society, the repre
sentatives of the railway manage
ments have felt justified in declining
a peaceful settlement which would
engage all tho forces of justice, pub
lic and private, on their side to take
care of the event. The fear that the
hostile influence of shippers who
would be opposed to an increase In
freight rates (for which, however, the
public itself would pay), they appar
ently feel no confidence that the in
terstate commerce commission could
withstand the objections that would
be made. They do not care to rely
upon tho friendly assurances of the
congress or the president They have
thought it best that they should be
forced to yield, if they must yield,
not by counsel but by the suffering
of the country. While my conferences
with them were in progress and when
to all outward appearance those con
ferences had come to a standstill,
the representatives of the brother
hoods suddenly acted and set the
strike for the 4th of September.
Basis of Decision.
"The railway managers based tneir
iecision to reject my counsel in this
matter upon their conviction that
they must at any cost to themselves,
Dr to the country, stand firm for the
principle of arbitration, which the
men had rejected. I based my coun
sel upon the Indisputable fact that
there was no means of obtaining arbi
tration. The law supplied none;
earnest efforts at mediation had fail
ed to influence the men in the least.
To stand firm for the principle of
arbitration and not to get arbitra
tion seemed to mo futile and some
thing more than futile, because It in
volved incalculable distress to the
country and consequences In some re
spects worse than those of war, and
that In the midst of peace.
Principle of Arbitration.
"I yield to no man In firm adher
ence;" alike of conviction and of pur
pose to the principlo of arbitration In
industrial disputes; but matters have
come to a sudden crisis in this par
ticular dispute and the country has
been caught unprovided with any
practicable means of enforcing that
conviction In practice, by whose fault
wo will not now stop to inquire. A
situation had to bo met whose fixed,
conditions were indisputable. Tho
practical courso to pursue as it
seemed to me was to secure Immedi
ate peace by conceding the one thing
(Continued on Pace )
RAILROADS OIVE
OUT STATEMENT
Committee of Eight Issues Re
view of Controversy With
Brotherhoods.
VARIABLE CONDITIONS
Demand Is Really for Increase
in Pay and Not for Better
Working Day.
Washington, Aug. 29. This state
ment to the public was Issued by the
committee of railroad president:
"We are unable after the most earn
est consideration to agree with the
proposal of the president of the Uni
ted States which is that we accept
without arbitration, 'the substitution
of an eight-hour day for the present
ten-hour day in all of the existing
practices and agreements.' This Is
the main point In controversy and we
cannot surrender it without an oppor
tunity to be heard in some form of
fair arbitration.
"We do not assent to the state
ment that 'the eight-hour day now un
doubtedly has the sanction of the
judgment of society in Its favor.' We
believe that society has not yet re
corded its judgment upon this sub
ject. Face Variable Conditions.
"We are not in this controversy,
however, dealing with the conditions
relating to the eight-hour day in the
industrial world. The difference be
tween the eight-hour day in business
and manufacturing interests and in
the railway train service day has been
fully explained. The railroad day is a
basis for computing-pay and overtime,
the length of daily service being con
trolled by variable conditions.
"Tho demands involved in this con
troversy have not been presented in
our judgment for the purpose of fix
ing a definite daily period of labor,
nor a reduction in the existing hours
of labor or change in methods of op
eration, but for the real purpose of
accepting an increase of wages ap
proximating 100,000,000 dollars per an
num or 35 percent for the men in
railroad freight train and yard ser
vice represented by the labor organiz
ations in this matter..
"After careful examination of the
facts and patient and continuous con
sultation with the conference commit
tee and managers and among our
selves, we have reached a clear under
standing of the magnitude of the ques
tions and of the serious consequences
to the railroads and to the public in
volved in a decision to them.
Trustees of Public.
"As trustees for the public served
by our lines and for the great mass
of the less powerful employes (not
less than 80 percont of the whole
number) interested in the railroad
wage fund as trustees also for the
millions of people that have invested
their savings and capital in the bonds
and stocks of these properties and
who through the savings banks, trust
companies, and insurance companies
are vitally interested to the extent of
millions of dollars, in the integrity
and solvency of the railroads of the
country, we cannot in conscience sur
render without a hearing the principle
involved nor undertake to transfer the
enormous cost that will result to the
transportation of commerce of the
country.
Cost of Elqht-Hour Day.
"The eight-hour day without punitive
overtime involves an annual increase
apnoximatlng in tho aggegate sixty
millions of dollars and as increase of
more than twenty percent in the pay
of men, already tho most highly paid
in the transportation service. The
ultimate cost to the railroads of an
admission in this manner of the prin
ciple under contention cannot now be
estimated; the effect upon the effi
ciency of the transportation of the
country now already under severe test
under tho tide of business now mov
ing and at a time when more in-
cfo'ifl nt Inot- affn4 In ..nnnJrprl fit TUlb-
lic welfare, would bo harmful beyond
calculation.
"The wide-spread effect upon the in
dustries of the country as a whole is
beyond measure or appraisement at
this time and we agree with the insis
tent and widespread public concert
over tho gravity of the situation and
the consequences of a surrender by
the railroads in this emergency.
Executives Deeply Impressed.
"In like manner we are deeply im
pressed with the sense of our respon
sibility to maintain and keep open the
arteries of transportation, which carry
tho life blood of the commerco of the
country, and of the consequences that
will flow even a temporary Interrup
tion of service of the railroads, but
the Issues presented have been raised
above and beyond the social and mon
etary questions involved and the re
sponsibility for the consequences that
may ariso will rest upon those that
provoke it.
"The questions involved are In our
respectful judgment eminently suita
ble for tho calm mvestigation and de
termination by the public through the
agency of fair arbitration and cannot
be disposed of to the public satisfac
1 tion in any other manner, Tho decis
ion of a commission or board of arbi
tration having the public confidence
will be accepted by the public and the
social and financial re-arrangements
made necessary thereby will be under
taken by tho public but in no less de
liberate nor orderly manner.
Would Financially Embarass Many.
"The railroads of the country can
not under present conditions assume
this enormous increase in their ex
penditures. If imposed upon them it
would Involve many in early financia
embarassment and bankruptcy and im
peril the power of all to maintain their
credit and integrity of their securities.
The Immediate Increase in cost, fol
lowed by other increases that would
be inevitable, would substantially ap
propriate the present purchasing pow
er of the railroads and disable them
from extending and improving their
facilities and equipment, to keep
abreast of the demands of the coun
try for efficient transportation ser
vice. "For these reasons we are with deep
regret unable to accept the suggestion
made by tho president of the United
States.
"Wo propose, however, as a basis
of settlement, the following:
"A The railways will, effective
September 1st, 191G, keep the time of
all men represented In this movement
upon an eight-hour basis and by sep
arate account, monthly with each man,
maintain a record of the difference of
money actually earned by him on the
present basis and the amount that
would have been earned upon an eight
hour basis overtime on each basis to
be computed pro rata. The amounts
so shown will be subject to the deci
sion of the commission provided for
in paragraph C of this memorandum
apd payable in money as may bo di
rected by said commission in its find
ings and decision.
"B. The Interstate Commerce
Commission to supervise tho keeping
of these accounts and report the in
creased cost of the eight-hour basis,
after such period of actual experience
as their judgment approves or the
president may fix, not, however, less
than three months.
"C. In view of the far-reaching
consequences of the decision made by
the president accepting the eight-hour
day not only upon the railroads and
the classes of labor involved directly
in this controversy but to the public
and upon all industry it seems plain
that before the existing conditions are
changed the whole subject insofar as
it affects the railroads and the em
ployes should be investigated and de
termined by a committee to be ap
pointed by the president of such stand
ing to compel attention and respect to
its findings. The judgment of such a
commission would be a peaceful basis
for adjustments with labor and such
legislation as intelligent public opin
ion, so informed might demand.
"The railroads will accept the find
ings of such a commission on the is
sue of the eight-hour day basis of pay
as compared with the present basis
as well as upon any other matters
now in controversy that may be sub
mitted to it by either party.
"The commission should consist of
not less than five members and should
also be authorized to hear and deter
mine all questions that may arise in
the findings of said commission or
the working out of such plan as It
may propose.
"The presidents of the railroads are
prepared to continue negotiations on
the subject with genuine anxiety,
within the limits of their views, above
expressed, to find a solution of the
situation."
nn
FINCH LEAD
IN OFFENSIVE
Germans Not Reduced to De
fensive at Any Point in
Theater of War.
Paris, Aug. 29, 12:30 a, m. "On the
Somme as at Verdun, we nre leading
in the offensive and dominating the
adversary," says an official note re
viewing last week's operations on the
French 'front, "There is not a point
In tho general theater of operations
where the enemy Is actually reduced
to the defensive," continues the note.
"Actions which we have undertaken
continued despite the resistance or
reaction of tho enemy."
An
FIRE DESTROYS
GREAT WAREHOUSE
Vallejo, Cal., Aug 29. Fire, sweep
ing an immense warehouse belonging
to tho Sperry Flour company in South
Vallejo, destroyed todav a stock of
wheat valued at more than $200,000,
and caused an estimated total loss of
nearly $500,000. Fire tugs from Mare
Island navy-yard aided the firo de
partment in protecting the remninder
of the company's plant. The flames
were believed to be under control
and tho navy-yard is not in danger.
RUMANIANS AND RUSSIANS JOIN I
FORCES ON HUNGARIAN BORDER I
Severe Fighting Is Reported Bulgars Withhold Declaration
Against Rumania King Ferdinand Orders Full Mobi- .H
lization and Prepares to Lead His Troops in the
Field Battles Continue on All Fronts.
London, Aug. 29 (2:45 p. m.) Des
perate fighting on the border between
Rumania and Hungary is reported in
an Exchange Telegraph despatch
from Berne, Switzerland. The Ru
manians, the message says, are mak
ing furious efforts to capture the im
portant mountain passes.
Bulgaria Falls to Act.
Paris, Aug. 28 (6:01 a. m.) The
Bucharest correspondent of the Petit
Journal wires that he is Informed that
Bulgaria has decided not to declare
war on Rumania even though that
country permits the passage through
it of Russian troops.
Invasion of Hungary.
Paris, Aug, 29 (5:50 p. m.) The
Invasion of Hungary by Russians and
Rumanians is not only possible, says
Lieutenant Colonel Roussett, the mili
tary critic of La Liberte, but It is im
minent. Rumanians Join Russians.
Zurich, Aug. 29 (via Paris, 1:20 p.
m.) Rumanian troops which have
been concentrated at Jasy, near the
Russian frontier, entered Transyl
vania at a point to the west of Pla
tra and, according to information re
ceived hero, are reported to have
joined forces with Russian troops
coming from Bukowina.
The first hostilities between Ru
mania and Austria-Hungary broke out
Sunday evening south and southwest
of Kronstadt, Brasso. Skirmishes al
so are reported further west at Col
Tour Rouge. 1
King Goes to Front.
Bucharest, Aug. 29 (via Petrograd
and London, 1:03 p. m.) King Ferdi
nan has ordered the general mobiliza
tion of the Rumanian army. Great
enthusiasm prevails in the capital.
Russo-Rumaniann Fighting.
Berlin, Aug. 29 (by wireless to Say
vllle). The junction of Russian and
Rumanian forces In the Carpathians
Is indicated in the official announce
ment from the war office today, which
says fighting has occurred with Rus-so-Rumanian
troops.
Rumanians Meet Defeat.
Berlin, Aug. 29 (via London, G:01
p. m.) Reports were received here
today that the .Rumanians have been
defeated in their first efforts to force
a way through three mountain passes
into Hungarj'.
Heavy Fighting of Italians.
Berlin, Aug. 29 (by wireless to Say
ville). Heavy fighting continues near
Mount Cauriol in the Cia valley. The
repulso of Italian troops which suc
ceeded in penetrating temporarily the
Austrian positions is reported In the
official Austrian announcement of
August 28.
Russians Are Repulsed.
Berlin, Aug. 29 (by wireless to Say
ville). The repulse of Russian at
tacks In' the Carpathians and further
north in tho region of Mariampol with
large losses, Is reported in the offi
cial Austrian announcement of yes
terday. French Make Progress.
Paris, Aug. 29 (11:50 a. m.) On the
Verdun front last night French troops
made progress near Thiaumont work,
the war office announced today. Ger
man attacks In the vicinity of Fleury
and Vaux fort were repulsed.
Rumanian Minister Leaves.
London, Aug. 29, 11:15 a, m. A
Hague despatch to tho Exchange Tele
graph company says the Rumauian
minister to Berlin leaves that city and
that he requested a special Interview
with the imperial chancellor, Mr. von
Bethmann-Hollweg, but it was prompt
ly refused.
Norwegian Steamer Sink.
Rotterdam, Aug. 22. Via London, 1
(pi m The 1.G00 ton Norwegian
steamship Renterla has been sunk.
Nineteen of her crew arrived in the
waterway today on a lugger.
All Rumanians Called.
Vienna, Aug. 28 Via "Berlin and
London, Aug. 29. 1:55 p. in., All
Rumanian citizens hero have been
called 'upon by the authorities to re
port, within 48 hours at the police
headqunrters in their precincts nnd to
furnish documents establishing their
identity.
nn i .
TOBACCO IS SOARING.
Manila, P. I., Aug. 29. Cigar manu
facturers of this city, asserted that
a tobacco corner is in operation, have
appealed .to the government to inter
vene. The prico of tobacco is soar
ing. Tho government officials say
this is due to-a world. Bhortage. .
CANADIAN UW . I
Brotherhood Leaders Issue 1
Statement Explaining Their ,
Opposition to Such
Legislation. !
OCCURRENCE CITED ; H
Employers Entrench Them- I
selves Behind Investigations
to Defeat Men's De- H
mands.
H
Washington, Aug. 29. The brother- ,
hood leaders, Garretson, Stone, Lee
and Carter, issued the following state
ment explaining their opposition to
any legislation along the plan of the IH
Canadian commission: IH
"Since the abolition of slavery no ,
more effectual means has been devls- , fl
ed for Insuring the bonding of the !
working man than the passage of 'H
compulsory Investigation acts of the
character of the Canadian industrial i IH
"To cite an actual occurrence:
"In 1910 the men upon eighty rail
roads in the eastern territory of tho
United States presented to the rail
road companies of that territory a
demand for an Increase in wages. The
companies refused to deal concerted- I jH
ly ' with the proposition and It was
therefore taken up with the indlvid
ual roads. Three of the properties
were Canadian and two days after t
negotiations were opened on January i jH
7, the first road in the United States' i
negotiations opened on the three Can- jH
adian properties. The negotiations In i
the United States included federal
mediation In the first and arbitration
in the third case. L
"On the 9th day of July following, 1
settlement was made on the last of I jH
the seventy-seven roads involved. On I
the same date at 6 p. m. a strike took r jH
place on the Grand Trunk railway, ,
one of the Canadian railways, settle
ment not having yet been affected u JH
on any one of the three, this growing , JH
out of the delays which the employ
ers were able to Interpose under the
industrial disputes' act ,
Employers Entrenched. ,
"Moreover, the period of investiga- .H
tion is eternally utilized by the em- l
ployer t0 entrench himself in his ef-
for to defeat the demands of the men, If
no matter how just their cause may (
be, and in a majority of Instances jH
where a verdict by an investigating ;
commission has been favorable to the
men, it has been repudiated by tho
employer. In consequence of thiB at- j 'M
titude, disregard for and tho Ignoring jM
of the provisions of that law has led j
to placing thousands of men in tho
attitude of lawbreakers and the pass- J
age of laws which induce men to open r
violation thereof is a deadly Injury I
to a nation because It breeds univers- I'
al contempt for law.
"In the present strife, If such an I
act were passed all that would be ,j vM
necessary would be for the power of V1 jl
attorney to be withdrawn from the
national conference committee of
managers by the individual roads and T'H
then immediate necessity would arise ,
for 250 investigation boards to be '. IH
created or, if only a limited number
would be provided for, men would be 1
compelled to remain for years in vol-
untary servitude if they obeyed tho
provisions of such a law."
ill ENySPMENT I
Kansas City, Mo., Aug. 29. Large j
delegations from Missouri, Kansas, H
Iowa and Indiana arrived hero today Vl
to atend the nnnual encampment of j
the'G. A. R. Estimates made by the f H
national executive officers shortly be- J
fore noon were that 20,000 visitors had
reached the city and that later arrlv
als would swell the total for tomor
row's parade to at least twenty-five )
thousand. jH
