MR. MERCHANT.
An ad. in The Easle will bring buyer
and Mller together. .
' Tonight aal Wednesday, c! "7 i
and unsettled weather. I
mm
AND PILOT
VOL XXX. NO. 200.
BRYAN, TEXAS, TUESDAY, AUGUST 29, 1916.
PRICE $4.00 PER ANNUM.
,i
,4
i
Seitkmmt
Wo
WE
iTV n
Grisco
Is pore and wholesome
and keeps well in warm
weather.
FRESH STOCK
Hardy Newton
PRESIDENT APPEARED
BEFORE JUT SESSION
Cmmim
.l.l.nlnnArrAmm.uu-Lmrm
y
MILLER
mm
Telegrams From All Faction! of Dem
ocrats Party Have Been Re
ceived at Dallae.
COLQUITT SAYS NO
T
A
DEAD
DUCK
Defeated Candidate for Senator Will
Bide Hla Time Said Election Did
Not Eliminate Him.
The Question of Averting the Nation-Wide Strike !
Now Rests With Congress The Negotiations
Between the President, the Railroad Execu
tives and the Employes Have Been Closed
The Employes Rejected the Last Proposition
of the Executives and Ordered the Strike to
Begin at 7 O'Clock Monday September 4th,
Labor Day The President Went Before a
Joint Session of Congress Today and Submit
ted the Whole Case.
Washington, Aug. 29. President
Wilson took the threatened nation-
Too Well Known to Advertise
CHASE AND SAKSORN'S COFFEE AX3 TEAS
EXCLUSIVE AGEKCY
Reid Bros..
WOULD STOP ALL
PREMIUM SCHEMES
Retail Merchants' Association of
Texas Would Stop Trading Stamp
Schemes by Legislation.
Dallas, Tex. Aug. 29. Telegrams
urging Dairy Miller to make tbe race
for Governor at the next Democratic
.primary were received by Miller Mon
day from men of all tactions of the
Democratic (arty.
Miller by reason of bla conducting
Senator Culberson's successful cam
paign for re-election, made ' many
friends throughout the state and prob
1 ably received more advertlsment from
tbe campaign than any other man un
less It waa Colquitt or Culberson.
It
ler will allow hla name to be pre'
Dallas, Tex. Aug. 29. That he Is wids strike matter to Congress today
not dead politically In Texas but will and at a Joint aesslon laid the whole
bide his time was tbe statement or 'controversy before the members in a
lengthy message.
tl fnl.iiilt AataataA nanttlHntA tnr'
United States Senator Monday after
noon. He declared that he was not
"out of politics," and that the elec
tion of Saturday did not eliminate
him.
(Mr. Colquitt will make Dallas his
home for the present, but said that
he was not ready to announce his
plans for the future.
ESTABLISHES OFFICE.
Mr. It. M. Batto. the government
la considered possible that Mil- cotton classer, who arrived in Bryan
yesterday, hss established an office
(By Associated Press.)
Austin, Texas, Aug. 29. Leglsla
President -tlon which will put an end to preml
aented aa a candidate In 1918.
waa elected to the legislature
Dallas In the July primaries.
Some men never give a thought to
the hereafter except when they have
occasion to pass a graveyard on a
dark night
He over the First National Bank. A
fro J) meeting haa been called for Friday
at 2 o'clock p. m. and plans will then
be outlined for his work here. It Is
the desire o. the Commercial Asso
ciation mat. as many business men
end farmers as possible attend this
meeting. ' Tbe plans will be announc
ed after the meeting Is held.
The executive asked that Congress,
with the Idea that the strike must be
averted, pass legislation to prevent
such disaster by enlargement of the
aeope of the Interstate Commerce
Commission as effecting Interstate
railroads and a labor measure similar
to the Canadian measure for settling
labor disputes.
i
An act for Investigstion before a
strike Is called and empowering the
President to draft men Into the fed
eral service to operate traina Is the
President's program.
While President Wilson was prepar
ing to go before Congress, the broth
erhood leaders rejected the latest
proposition of ths railroad presidents
and actually ordered the atrlka to be
gin at 7 o'clock on Labor Day, Sep
temper 4.
Unless a settlement Is reached be
fore that time, or unless
Wilson and Congress find some way um and trading stamp schemes now
to prevent It, the atrlka would start being operated In Texas will be urged
at that time without further notice. Iby the Retail Merchants' Association
Direct negotiations through Presl-fof Texas at the next aesslon of the
'"' "w preuciiy cioseo tate Legislature, according to w. J
today whan the executives refused to
accede to the proposal made by Pres
ident Wilson yesterday and presented
statement of their position contain
ing another argument for arbitration.
16
V AJ
ARTHUR MIODLETON
Zanatello Has Recently Been Knighted by
the King of Italy.
"A voice of golden tone, prodigal In its expenditure, yet responsive
to every emotional shade." This great Italian tenor's voice haa Just
been Re-Created by Ediaon's wonderful new art In this picture you
see tbe great Zsnstello actually tinging In direct comparison with
Edison's Re-Creation of hla voice, and proving conclusivsly that his
living voice and Edison's Re-Creetlon of It are Indistinguishable.
Zsnstello is one of the many grea artists who have similarly proved
ths absoluts perfection of Edison's nsw Invsntion. Hear Edison's Re
creation of Zenatallo't voice and then hear Zsnstello himself when
you have the opportunity. '
THE NEW EDISON does not give a talking machine reproduc
tion; Inatesd It acually re-creates all forma of music The word re
crests has bsen adopted by America's leading muslo critics to dis
tinguish ths NEW EDISON from all othar sound re-producing devices.
OF RUMANIA
LEAVES FOR FRONT
DA
COMB
mi,
ER SHOT AT TEHGUE
Fired On While Posting Notice of the
Banks Closing In Critical
Condition.
Gdgecomb, secretary of that organ!
xatlon, with headquarters at San An
tonio. ...
Mr. Edgecomb la advocating the
passage of a bill along tbe lines of a
(statute In tbe state of Washington,
which has been, be said, successful In
rorohfblting these pact!ce." There
appears, Mr. Edgecomb declared, a
general demand among the merchants
of Texas for such legislation. The
"pure advertising" bill Is another
measure which is to be fostered by
frhe retail merchants during tbe next
session of the Legislature.
He Will Hsve Commend of Army-
Rumania Minister Left Berlin
French Make Progress.
(By Associated Preas
Rom. Aug. 29-Klng Ferdinand,
of Rumania left Bucharest today for
ths front to ssume command of hla
army, according to Information from uPrin"dent Bramlette of
PROTEST IS MADE
AT
CLASSI CA Of
What Would Your Neighbors Think of Ar
thur Middleton?
Supposs he sang for you tonight Your neighbors would gather
at thelf windows to hear his wonderful bass voles. Edison's nsw art
rs-creatoa Arthur Mlddlston'a msgnlflcsnt voles with absolute fidelity.
ARTHUR MIDDLETON of ths Metropolitan, haa voice of bass
quality, yst running very high Into ths baritone, almost to ths tsnor
rsglstsr. ..Hs Is ens of ths many great artists, who have dsmonstrstsd
by actual comparison thst EDISON'S re-creation of an artist's work
csnnot bo dlstlngulshsd from ths original. Har Edison's Re-Crea-tlon
of Mlddlston'a Voles, thsn hear Middleton at the Metropolitan or
when ths great bass Is on concert tit .r.
MUSIC RE-CREATION WHAT IS ITT Muslo re-orsstlon Is
Thomas Edlson'a nsw art Ws wsnt you to hssr ths NEW EDISON
Ws wsnt you to hsve ths opportunity to know ths facts about this
wonderful msehlns.
An
ii
,l1
the Rumanian capital
Ministsr Lsavss Berlin.
London, Aug. 29. The Rumanian
Minister to Berlin left last night after
Institute Does Not Liks G!a
cation of W. F. Doughty,
Teague Tex. Ang. 29. State Bank
ing Commissioner John S. Patterson
of Austin waa ahot and seriously
wounded here late Monday evening.
The shooting took place in the Far
mers and Merchants State bank build
ing. According to the report given to
officers, Commissioner Patterson had
told President T. R. Wstson of the
bank that he would be forced to close
the bank Monday. Mr. Watson then
replied that tf he did do so be would
shoot him according to witnesses.
.CommUslcet.FaUenqnjttrtd to
post the notices of closing on the
bank doors when the bullets were
fired. Tbe one striking the State offl-
i clal passed through his body and
pierced the right lung. He was re
ported tonight to be in a very criti
cal condition.
No arrests had been made early
in the night
J. E. McKlnnan, 8tate bank exami
ner wan with Commissioner Patter
son at the time of the shooting and
three shots were fired at him. All
of these went wild however.
Commissioner Patterson waa rush
ed to the Yoakum hotel, where he waa
given medical treatment
T. R. Watson Is president of the
1 Farmers and Merchsats bank F. J. K.
I Watson vice president and W. R.
Watson cashier. The latter two are
strong aons of the president
Blind
lifl- I
(By Associated Ptms.)
Austin, Texas, Aug. 29. A
an Interview with the Imperial Chan- protMt hM ien mmit h E- E- '
teller had been refused, according to,nrmlette-l Perintendeni of the Was Tsksn to Waco.
an exchange telegraph dispatch from'7" 8cno01 for tne B,lnd tl the wc0- Texae, Aug. 29. With little
tbe Hague. "claaslflcstlon of pupils attending that hope of recovery, John 8. Patterson.
institution as "defectives." This pro- state commissioner of banking and In-
French Made Gains. i161 w" nM w,tn P"- w Ioagh. durance. Is In a local sanitarium auf
London, Aug. 29. French troops ,ute uperlntendent of public In- -fering from a bullet wound received
msde progress near Thlaumont fort tctlon, who. It haa developed. In from a fight In the Farmers and Mer-.
on tbe Verdun front last night the compiling the scholastic census of chants' State Bank t Teague.. Fir
Parla official bulletin aays. Tbe Ger-,TMM elssslfled the pupils of this -shots were fired. Three were aimed
men attacks In the vicinity of Fleury ,u,e chnol under the caption of "Re-'at Rank Examiner McKlnney. going
and Vaux fort were repulsed.
PREPRED1SS PRO
M
COMPLETED
ZANATELLO
Our Music Department is an attractive feature of our big store. The department Is in
charge of Miss Hickman who will appreciate a visit from you. Time spent listening to an
EDISON is well spent.
Gzin
IF.
President Attached Slgnsture to the
Army and Navy Appropriation
Bill as Amended.
,-port of Defectives" wild, while Mr. Patterson received a
Superintendent Bramlette Insists outlet just below the right shoulder
thst the school should be classified -blade, end. It Is believed, punctured a
aa one of the educational Institutions 'lung. He wss brought here on a spe-
'of Texas. This Institution will open -clal train. T. R. Watson, president of
Its fall session about the middle of -the bank, haa been arrested and will
8eplcmber. with an attendance of ap- be given a preliminary hearing today.
proximately 2S0 students. This will
be the Isst session of the school In
the present antiquated buildings, ss
rthe new $200,000 Mind Institute will
(by Associated free.)
Wsshlngton. Aug. 29. The Presi
dent todsy completed the prepared
nesa legislation by signing the army
and navy appropriation bill
ed the Philippine bill at tho same
time.
SAFE RODDERS
E
Examination Postponed.
Teague, Texas, Aug. 21. The exam-
be completed for the following see- 'inlng trials of T. R. Watson and aons,
,,on- 'J. R and W. R, Watson. In connection
' ' I with the shooting of Bank Commls-
Former President Tsft Is said to be .lone, Peterson, were deferred pend-
womewhat concerned became his is. .,,1.. p.h.b-.
daughter has lately taken up Tying as wounds.
He slgn-K hobby; but those who are responsl-
ble for her training declare thst she Is I , . , . , . Km m.
Already an expert who can aaf.ly be , , Jok wlln mhUUn 0B t
rirumrq wua an crop line.
HAUL
Cracksd Three Banks at Homsr, III
nd Escaped In Automobiles
With 110,000.
(Rir Asaortated rv
rtecstur, III, Aug. 29. Safe blowers
4roke Into three banks at Homer, III.
this morning and esrsped In an auto
mobile with $10,000.
we Dorrr want your bank Accouirr
But We Do Vtnt Year Attention !
We want to remind you that we sell every
thing for the home. .We would like to show
you our stock of Furniture and Convince
you that HERE is the logical point at which
to make your purchases.
W. T. JACIEG, Furnlturo
