THE BARRE DAILF TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 111.
DAK UK. VKRMOXT. TUKSDAV, AUGUST I'O, 1910.
PRICK. OXE CENT.
WILSON ASKS
LEGISLATION
ON STRIKES
EVesidcnt Went Before Congress To
day With Special Message Embody
ing Measures Which He Hopes to
Have Passed in the Impending Cri
sis on Railroads
MANAGERS' PLAN
NOT SATISFACTORY
Meanwhile the Railroad Brotherhood
Heads Issued Order for Actual Strike
on Labor Day If Satisfactory Settle
ment Is Not Reached By That Date
Washington, D. C, Aug. 29.--President Wilsofi will address Con
gress in a joint session on the railway strike situation at 2:30
o'clock this afternoon.
The president reached a decision soon after the meeting of the
brotherhood heads had come to a conclusion on the latest proposal
of the railroad presidents, who had suggested deferring the strike
pending an investigation. Their decision was not announced, but
the president's action in deciding to address Congress was inter
preted plainly as meaning that they had rejected it.
While the president's decision to go before Congress was being
announced, the brotherhood leaders changed the tentative order
for a strike on Labor day to an order actually to strike at that time
unless -it is called off by a satisfactory settlement.
President Wilson worked nearly all night on the address he wil
deliver, and after conferring with Chairman Newlands of the Sen
ate interstate commerce committee he announced his decision
Word was sent to the Senate and House leaders so they would
arrange for the joint session. The president will lay before Con
gress a definite plan of legislation for dealing with the situation
It includes bills laid before him by Senator Newlands after a con
ference with the acting attorney-general, Secretary Lane and sev
eral members of the Senate interstate commerce commission
The bills which will be taken up first are: A bill patterned after
the Canadian industrial disputes act, providing for investigation
of disputes between railroads and their employes and preventing
strikes or lockouts during the period of investigation; an eight-
hour law for railroad employes, with a provision that .sufficient
time be given the railroads to prepare for its operation. The presi
dent also discussed with Senator Newlands early to-day legislation
proposing to stop a strike if it begins before preventative legisla
tion can be adopted.
By their action in making the strike order positive instead of
tentative, the strike leaders believe they have anticipated any legal
processes which might be brought against them. In response to
the request of the railroad executives, President Wilson agreed to
pee them before going before Congress, and he postponed the cabi
net meeting in order to do so.
The direct negotiations between the
"NOT MAKER OF PHRASES"
That Ij the Negative Characterisation of
Hughes By Lodge.
I. nn. U., Aug. 20.- Senator Henry
eli.it Lodge, in an addn here u
nilii, ili.uv'l the IViihhtkU in in
grc villi (he nmi.iiig of sectional Icgts
1 i icii nimI iriliiil their projects fr
tn.it ion. JI condemned tli Mexican
'policy of th president and r!i"t ! the
election of .Mr. Hughes.
"Mr. Hugh.-," said S.-iutor I-odge, 'i
a strong, able, upright man of high
i hn rioter, great delmtcr, a. ingularly
able .iiiinitrat"r, above nil a man who
avt wlint he mrmii and means what h
mv. nut maker of i.lirn .. You may
lie Mire when lie epesks a president not
only to hi outi people hut to the nations
of the world a well, that there U a man
Ix-li intl the word he lie. lie is on
whom you ran trut, anil that i why I
ft'i'l honored to be associated with him
a I -iMH-t tn le in tlii' fmr vears to
conic. as I am sure that he will he elect
ci anil I am not entirely without hope of
liemir elected mvsclf.
Senator I,odge mi. I that the total
m mount raised hv ilirert taxation, by
emergency corporation income, and in
dividual income taxes fur the pant year
wa $JW.2I.V.I. Four states, of the
North. Manebu-eits, New York. Tenn
svlvania and Illinois, he added, paid
$110,001,000 nf these taxes, Irt of the
northern states paid H."i per cent of the
entire tax and 11 southern Matca paid
4 per ceiit.
"The legislation of the Democratic
party, he continued, "has heen sectional
since 101.1. Tliev have removed the tar
itr to ilcprive the north of protection and
thev have levied fixes so that titer col-
lcrt them from three or four northern
states. The northern Itomncrat rarely
holt hi in ui-H : he votes for the whole
part J- program."
Senator Ixidge declared that twice a
many young men had heen killed in "Mr.
Wilson's peace" in Mexico as were killed
during the entire Spanish war.
He said that the present prosperity
came in a convulsion and will go in a
convulsion and will leave us face to face
with the "gravest economic peril."
railroad executives and employes through
President Wilson practically closed to
day when the executives refused to ac
cede to the proposal made to them yes
terday by Wilson. In their statement to
liim to-day the executives present an
other argument for arbitration. The
brotherhood leaders, it was understood
to-diiy, would fight the compulsory inves
tigation feature of the Wilson legislative
program but would support the eight
hour proposal. In order to have any ef
fect on the present proposed strike the
president's program would have to pass
both houses and become a law before
Monday.
The visit of the brotherhood heads to
the White House came within half an
hour after the president had left the
capitol. They hurried from their hotel
tin foot to the executive mansion and
Arrived shortly after 7 o'clock, while the
president was at dinner. Their confer
ence with the president was brief. He
handed one copy of the railroads' counter
proposal to A. 15. Carretson, spokesman
for the employes, and said he would not
discuss it in any way. It is known,
however, that the brotherhood men gath
ered that he did not strongly approve of
it. Conversation about the strike order
followed, and then the brotherhood heads
departed.
Every effort was made to keep the call
at the White Houe secret. The union
heads returned to their hotel singly and
hy separate routes. After passing out
the word that they would meet the com
mittee of 24 this morning to discuss the
proposal, they went to their rooms, de
listing to discuss their conference.
News thst copies of the strike order
sent out Sunday were in the hands of
the railroad presidents occasioned no sur
prise among the brotherhoods. After it
became known that they suspected three
of their number of acting as spies for
the Tailroad heads, they said, frankly
that they expected the strike order soon
would he in their employers hands.
More than 5.V1 copies of the order, it
was learned, were mailed ont of Wash
ington and each of the committee of fitfl
1m received a copy. Copies in the
Iisnds of the executive are supposed to
lave heen mailed back here from nearby
point.
"There Tin one traitor among the 12
disciples." one of the brotherhood heads
aid. "and our average appears to be
I-.igW thsn that."
I.V.r c.sy agreed npnn as the
time for fr-e tentative strike order to be-
PLAIf SYMPATHETIC STRIKE
To Tie Up All Street Car Lines in
Maine.
Boston, Aug. 23. Plans for the calling
of a sympathetic strike that would tie up
virtually all the street railway systems
in Maine were discussed yesterday at a
conference between local leaders of the
Amalgamated Association of Street and
Electrical Railway Employes of America
and James H. Vnhcy, the association's
attorney. The conference was called to
receive reports of the situation at Ban
gor, w here nearly 100 trolley men are out
on a strike in an attempt to force the
street railway to recognize their union.
Following yesterdays conference, it
was stated that within a few hours the
street car lines of Lewiston and Augusta,
with the various branches, and possibly
those of Portland, would be shut down,
unless a settlement of the Bangor trou
ble was effected. This information was
conveyed to Organiser Thomas F. Shine,
who is handling the strike in Baniror.
Other organizers will be sent to Bangor
TRAGEDY W BOSTON HOTEL.
Head Waiter Slain in Presence of Twenty
Persons.
Boston. Aug. 2! A man walked into
an annex dining room on the second floor
of the Hotel Essex yesterday afternoon
and shot and killed Charles W. (Yanney,
the head waiter, who was eating his din
ner. The murderer turned, ran down the
stairs, and escaped through the hotel
lobbv.
The regular dinner hour was over and
there were only about 20 persons in the
room at the time.
The police sent out a general alarm for
the arrest of Stell Zacharack, a waiter at
the hotel for 14 jears, who was dis
charged for insubordination by (Yanney
two hours before the shooting. He is 49
years old and is not married.
Albert Bolann, assistant head waiter
at the hotel, who was dining with Cran
ucv, told the police-he is positive the man
with the revolver" was Zacharack. Bo-
luno himself had a narrow escape when
one bullet went through hia coat. Two
of the bullets struck (Yanney and the
other two went wild.
After fleeing from the hotel, the as
sailant went across the street to the
south station, the police believe, and
boarded a t lain.
(Yattnev, who was 45 years old, waa
married only two weeks ago.
TEUTONS ARE
ON DEFENSIVE
ONALLFRONTS
French Official Note, in Re
viewing the Situation, De
clares That There Is Not a
Point in the General The
atre of Operations Where
France's Enemies Are Not
Reduced to Defensive
war with all the nation of tha central
xmrr, should ltukin troops advance
mruiigii her territory.
Tito news of the Kumanian declaration
of war against Austria Hungary was re
cehed here calmly, although it follow
cioae oil Italy a declaration or war
against IJermany.
ON WESTERN FRONT
ALLIES ARE LEADING
French Troops Made Prog
ress Near the Thiaumont
Work, Says French Official
Statement, and Repulsed
German Attacks in the
Vicinity of Fleury and
Vaux Fort
Aside from tha fact that Rumanian
troops have clashed with the force of
the central power' in the mountain
passes on the Hungarian ltorder, no offi-
lal information has been received in re
gard to the new campaign in Berlin, ac
cording to a dispatch received via The
Hague. The entrance of dreece into the
war is now regarded as a certainty, it
is reported from Paris that Bulgaria
has decided not tfli declare war on Ru
mania even though Humania should per
mit the passage through its territory of
the Kussian troops. In the western
war area the situation as a whole is
more quiet than at any time since early
summer. The sinking of two Norwegian
ships has been announced.
CALL IT SIGNIFICANT
Action of Rumania in Declaring War on
Germany.
Petroprail, via Ixmdon. Aur. 20. Ru
mania'a declaration of war against Au
trla ia regarded in liuostun ollicial circle
as an event nf far-reaching significance,
I lie foreign office point out three strik
ing benefit which will accrue to Russia
i a ronnenuence. The aulntatitial Ru
manian army, pitted against Austria
will lessen Russia task and will allord
greater freedom of action on the left
wing on the western front; the tighten
iiijr of the ring around the central em
pire and the opening of new line of
attack; the cutting off of grain aupplie
to the Austro-Germans, upon which tho
latter are believed to havo placed great
reliance,
Recent despatches from Bucharest In
dieated that the sale of the entire Ru
manian crop had virtually been arranged
for and that shipping of the grain had
aireanv ttcgun.
RESIGNS AS JUDGE.
INDEPENDENT'S EDITOR DEAD
Rev. William H. Ward Died in South
Berwick, Me.
South Berwick, Me., Aug. 2D. Rev,
William Hayes Ward, D. D., editor of
the New l ork Independent for 40 years,
director of the Wolte expedition to Baby
Innia in 18S4, and author of books on re
gious and Oriental auhjects, died at his
home here last night, aged 81 vears.
Although virtually an invalid for
year as the result of being thrown from
a carriage, Dr. Ward kept up his work
as honorary editor of The Independent.
Dr. Ward wa a trustee of Amherst
college and of Berwick academy. For
many years he took a prominent part in
the activities of tho American Bible so
ciety, the Church Building society and
the American Missionary society.
Dr. u ard waa born in Abington, Mass.,
June 2.r, 1835. He was graduated from
Amherst in 1S58 and from Andover The
ological seminary in 18.)9. The funeral
ill be held here Thursday afternoon.
ALLOWED DOGS AT LARGE.
Paris. Aug. 2ft. --"On the Somme front,
as at Verdun, we are leading in the of
fensive and dominating the adversary,"
says an official note reviewing the last
week's operations on the French front.
"There is not a point in the general
theatre of operations where the enemy is
not actually reduced to the defensive."
continues the note, "Actions 4ltich we
have undertaken continue despite the re
sistance or reaction of tha enemy."
(n the Verdun front last night the
French troops made progress near the
Thiaumont work, the war office an
nounced to-day. German attacks in the
vicinity of Fleury and Vaux fort were
repulsed.
RUMANIANS IN FIRST CLASH
Animals Chased Deer and Their Owner
Was Fined.
Midillcbury, Aug. 2!) William St. Clnir
of Charlotte, who was arreBted by F"ish
and Game Warden George Chaffee, was
taken before Justice A. W. Dicker yes
terday, charged with allowing his dogs
to chase deer. He pleaded Ruilty and
waa fined $100 and costs of $18. On
agreeing to take proper care of his dogs
in the future $.V) of the fine was remit
ted, (lame wardens have had a good
deal of trouble in this section by owners
allowing dogs to chase deer. The dog in
question was killed by the party who
Austrian Official Report Declares Attacks
Were "Treacherous."
Vicuna, via London, Aug. 20. The first
clashes between troops of Rumania and
the central powers occurred Sunday night
in southeastern and eastern frontier
mountain passes of Hungary, says an of
ficial statement given out. here yester
day. The attacks by the Rumanians are
described in the statement as "treacher
ous." Rumanian prisoners were taken.
Advance guards of the two forces came
into contact at Rothenthurm pass, 13
miles south of Hermannstadt, Transyl
vania, and in the passes south of Kron-
stadt (Brasso) the statement savs.
Kronstadt and Hermannstadt. toward
which the Austrian official communica
tion indicates the Rumanians are mak
ing their first efforts at an advance, are
two of the most important cities in
Transylvania. They arc near the south
cm border of Hungary, the former about
six miles from the Rumanian frontier
and the latter about 15 miles from the
frontier. Kronstadt is 70 miles east-
southeast of Hermannstadt.
The citv of Kronstadt is the most im
portant commercial and manufacturing
center of Transylvania. It has a popula
tion of approximately 41,000.
Hermannstadt is a lormer capital of
Transylvania and lies near the river Zi
bin. It has a population of 33,000. Ru
manians make up a large part of the
population of both cities.
To Run for Governor of New York-
Samuel Seabury.
New York, Aug. 2!1. Samuel Seabury,
designated for governor in the Democrat
ic, Progressive and Independence league
primaries, resigned yf-tenlay as asso-
late judge of the court of appeals to
take personal charge of his campaign.
I he candidate announced hi resignation
In a statement, addressed to "The peo
ple of the state of New York."
I shall conduct the public business
in the open," the statement reads. "Back
stairs government in the interest of
those who seek something for nothing
shall cease. We have outgrown the era
of invisible government.
"1 shall see to it that vouchers for
state's nionev expended by public offi
cials for alleged public purposes shall
be open to public inspection.
If elected, I shall restore responsible
popular government at Albany."
Mr. Seabury says that his decision to
withdraw from the bench, although he
had 12 years still to serve, whs only
arrived at after he had became con
vinced that he could be of greater serv
ice as governor. He declared that the
affairs of the state require the "appli
cation of common honesty and common
sense." economy in the state department
and amendment of existing tax laws.
Mr. Seaburv asks voters "to co-oper
ate with me in the task of ridding the
government of this state of the incom
petency, extravagance and corruption
that now exists in its affairs."
He has opened campaign headquarters
here.
12,000 MORE TROOPS
INCLUDING RECRUITS
OF VERMONT TO GO
War Department Issued Order Dispatch-
tag Them to the Mexican Border,
Leaving But 13,000 National
Guard Troops at Home.
Wellington, I), ('., Aug. 2'.. Some
12,ooo men of oh To, Vermont and Ken
tucky National Guard regiment still
held in state mobilization camp were
directed by the war department yester
day to proceeii to the Mexican huriler.
The department revoked sipenshm of
an order for their movement issued two
weeks ago. All the regiments will go
forward to join (Jen. Funtton's command
as rapidly as tranHrtution can be sup
plied. Some units were on the move last
night.
There remain approximately l.VfVv"
RtiardHinen, scattered through mv
states, who are not affected bv ves
day's order. c
The original order sending sout' I
all troop railed into the federal .-e
was isued bv the war departr in
order that the divisional units a . the
international line might be filled up, and
lso that those regiments which were
not ready to go in the firt rush might
share In the training a soon as thev
could be fully equipped. When the rail
way strike situation Wame threatening
Gen. Funston recommended that the
whole movement be held up as the eup-
ply difficulty in cae of a rail tie-up
would be complicated by the addition of
.000 men to hi command.
The department now has decided that
the strike situation niav continue tin
changed for some time.
JUDGE QUITS
PROCEEDINGS
Futnam Withdraws from
the Boston & Maine
Receivership
CLAIMS INTEGRITY
OF COURT ASSAILED
resident Hustis Appointed
Temporary Receiver
of the Road
NOT ENOUGH CARS
INFANTILE PARALYSIS
ENTERS VERMONT
Two Cases of Disease Found in Arling
ton, Bennington County, and Quar
antine Regulations Were
Promptly Imposed.
Arlington. Aug. 20. Dr. C. H. Beecher
of Bennington, who wag summoned by a
local physician yesterday afternoon, di
agnosed two cases in town as infantile
paralysis. The patients are the eleven
and thirteen-year-old sons of H. A. Ha
lett, a farmer living about a mile north
of the Shaftsbury line. The house was
quarantined before Dr. Beecher was summoned.
BIG HOTEL BURNED.
immediately to assist in handling the(lh H- u worsen. ,. f
Biiuntiuii, It hum MjiiiiMincea.
This sympathetic strike action, it was
snid by Mr. Yahey and association offi
cials, comes as the result of the refusal
of the Bangor street railway to recognize
the trolleymen's uniotuin tliat citv. This
company, association officials declare, is
controlled by the same management as
the Tortland street railway, where the
men recently went on strike, and the
I-ewiston and Augusta companies, where
the men organized and claimed that their
unions were recognued without resort
to strike action.
any evidence as to the owners of dogs
which are allowed to chase deer.
AUTO WAS DITCHED.
BOSTON, STRIKE HEADQUARTERS
For New England, Providing Order Is
Carried Out.
Boston. Aug. 23. Headquarters have
Wen secured in thia city for use in the
event of a nation-wide railroad strike, it
became known last night upon the arriv
al from Washington of several hundred
brotherhood rhsirman representing em
ployes ot .New Kncland railroad. Cnion
After Being Operated By Two Men
Without Permission.
Brandon, Aug. 29. A five-passenger
Overland automobile belonging to Dr.
L. A. Hettinger of Shelburne, which was
taken from the Brandon inn garage about
3 o'clock yesterday morning by Charles
Tennien and Dana Baker without per
mission, was ditched and considerably
damaged on the Forestdale road near
the Catholic cemetery. The machine
brought up against a tree, the front axle
being sprung and the fender bent. The
occupants escaped injury.
GERMANY BERATES RUMANIA.
Because Latter "Disgracefully Broke
Treaties" with Teutons.
London, Aug. 2!). An official state
ment issued in Berlin and forwarded by
Renter's correspondent at Amsterdam
says:
"After Rumania as already reported
disgracefully broke treaties concluded
with Austria-Hungary and Germany,
she declared war yesterday against our
ally.
"The imperial German nnister to Ru
mania has received instructions to re
quest his passports and to declare to the
Rumania government that Germany will
likewise consider herself at war with Rumania."
And 173 Occupants Fled in Their Night
Clothing.
Block Island, R. I., Aug. 2fi. One hun
dred and seventy-five people escaped in
their night clothing from the Hygeia
hotel when fire destroyed the four-story
wooden structure last night.
The Heygeia was one of the largest of
the summer hotels on the island. It
was owned by J. C. Champlain and was
valued at about $75,000.
The fire started in the cupola from
some unknown cause. Flames had com
municated to the roof when discovered
by passerbys. There were 100 guests
in the hotel and 75 employes. None of
them were able to save any of their
effects.
The cottages were saved. The fire
was first discovered by Lloyd Day, an
electric railway magnate of New Jer
sey, one of the guests. With those on
the street who had seen the flames, Mr.
Day ran into the hotel and uxlled the
bellboys. Thev hurried about the corri
dors arousing the guests. Ambrose
Smith, 17 years old. of Pawtuckct, R. I.,
bellboy, carried out two women and two
children.
During the progress of the fire, a
moving picture operator took several
films. '
To Ship AH of Vermont Troops Now in
Mobilization Camp.
Burlington, Aug. 20. Adjt. fJen. Lee
Tillotaon of t lie Vermont National
(iuard stated that it would be impossible
tor the Vermont troops still at mobiliza
tion to entrain within hours because
the cars received are not sufficient to ac
commodate the men.
It is expected that the troops will
leave for Kagle Pass bv the middle of
this week. Some of the supplies have
leen removed to K-sex ,1 unction and
there are several special cars in the
yards. The mobilization camp at the
fort will be abandoned after the troops
leave the state, although the three re
cruiting stations will be continued. They
are located at Middlebury, Morrisville
and Bennington, each one with an ollirer
and three enlisted men in charge.
Capt. Hyland has been feeding the men
well, according to reports received. They
have meat at least once a dav, eggs and
other staple food for other meals. Capt.
Hyland states that he has purchased so
much food and buys it in such quantities
that the average cost per man is but 27
cents a day.
Each man is equipped with 51 individ
ual articles supplied by the government.
Capt. - Hyland expects that the troops
train will consist of seven sleeping cars,
two baggage cars and one kitchen car.
Boston, Aug. 20. United States Cir
cuit Judge William L. Putnam to-day
withdrew from the Boston & Maine rail
road receivership proceedings because of
the bill filed by counsel for the minority
stockholders, which, according to Judge
Putnam, attacked the integrity of tha
court. He further ordered that the bill
b sent, to the office of the federal dis
trict attorney for an investigation by
the grand jury.
James H. Hustis, president of the Bos
ton it Maine company, was appointed
temporary receiver.
Judge Putnam refused to allow inter
vention by the minority stockholders'
protective committee.
BARRE STORE INCORPORATED
PREPARING TO LEAVE
Vermont Troops Tear Down Tents at
Mobilization Camp.
Word received from the mobilization
camp of the Vermont troops near Fort
Ethan Allen at 1 o'clock this afternoon
stated that the tents were being torn
down in preparation for leaving for the
Mexican front to-morrow morning.
Mrs. Shepard Co., Inc, Will Have Benefit
of Enlarged Quarters.
Articles of incorporation have been
filed with the secretary of state by the
Mrs. Shepard Co., Inc., of Barre, a mil
linery corporation doing business in the
Howland block at 11.) North Main street.
The capital stock is $4,000 and the in
corporators are Mrs. W. F. Shepard, Miss
Mary 1. (hvens and Miss Isabel C. Nel
son, all of this citv. 1 he officers are:
President, Mrs. W. F. Shepard; treasur
er, Miss Owens; secretary, Miss Nelson.
With the completion of the ample an
nex to the Howland buijding at the rear,
the millinery concern will have a bus
iness entrance and display windows in
Keith avenue as well as on North Main
street. Enlarged facilities for the trim
ming department will be so located as to
be easy of access from both display par
lors. The Keith avenue entrance and ad
dition will conform in finish and appoint
ment to the main store. It is expected
that the annex will be completed early in
October.
NATURALIZATION COURT.
CORINTH MAN AT HEAD.
G.
BERLIN EXPECTED IT.
Rumania's Declaration of War Against
Austria.
Berlin, Aug. 20, via London. German
government circles have expected some i
VERGENNES SENT ASSISTANCE
To Fight Fire on Farm in Ferrisburg
Loss Over $3,000
Vergennes. Aug. 20. A large barn
filled with hay. the horse barn and all
the farming tools and machinery on the
Albert Larrow farm in Ferrisburg, be
longing to the estate of the late Ir. Na
than (tppenheim of New York City, were
burned yesterday morning. A bucket
brigade saved the house. The origin of
the fire is unknown. The loss is estimat
ed at from $3,000 to Sfl.Ooo. Chief John
M. Alden of the Vergennes fire depart
ment was called on for assistance and
Stanley Miller Leads Universalist
Young People's Society.
St. Johnsbury, Aug. 20. The following
officers were elected thir. forenoon at the
annual meeting of the Young People's
Christian union in connection with the
convention of the I'niversalists of Ver
mont and Province of Quebec:
President, . Stanley Miller of Cor
inth; vice-president, Percy Smith of Wil-
Iiamstown; secretary. Miss Norma Rich
ardson of Chester: treasurer, Verne C.
Winchester of Brattleboro; trustees. Rev.
(i. F. Fortier of St. Albans, Mrs. Percy
fireenslade of Lyndonville and Rev. J).
E. Trout of Brattleboro.
The morning session of the P. P. C. U.
started at fi o'clock with a prayer and
consecration service led by Clifford Stet
son of North lunbruige. A business
session was occupied chiefly with reports
of committees. The committee on rec
ommendations emphasized the import
ance of the work of the Young People's
societies and recommended the organiza
tion of such unions in every parish. A
vigorous missionary policy was adopted
under the direction of tlie executive
head and the superintendent,
The occasional sermon was preached by
F. A. Stockwell of Iondonderry. and an
address was given by a national repre
sentative, Miss Laurine Freeman of Bos
ton, who appealed for funds for mission
ary work, after which .')0 was raised.
The meeting of the Woman's Mission
ary association was helj this afternoon,
at" which the secretary reported eight
active circles with a membership of 101
Session Being Held at Montpelier to
Grant Final Papers.
Judge Harland B. Howe of St. Johns
bury is presiding at the session of United
States court, which opened this forenoon
at Montpelier for naturalization pur
poses. Clerk F. S. Piatt of Rutland and
Examiner Allan F. Church of Boston ar
rived in the city last evening from Bur
lington to take part in the session of the
court. It is expected that citizenship pa
pers will be granted to over one hundred
applicants before court adjourns to-morrow.
It is the first session to be held in
Montpelier since last February.
BOTH ARE CHEERFUL
Messrs. Cave and Gates, Republican Can
didates for State Auditor.
The two candidates for state auditor,
Thomas H. Cave, jr., of Barre and Ben
jamin Gates of Montpelier, are both op
timistic over their prospects in the forth
coming primary. I heir nomination peti
tions, as filed, show that Mr. Cave had
S5S names on his petition and Mr. Gates
had 67S. The number required for the
office was 500.
TALK OF THE TOWN
L. O. Morgan, Central Vermont station
agent in Williamstown. was a business
visitor in Barre yesterday and to-day.
Frank Maino left the city this morn
ing for Burlington, where he is to enter
the Mary Fletcher hospital for treat
ment, Mr. Maino has been a sufferer for
some time with sciatic rheumatism and
is to follow a course of treatment pre
scribed for him by the hospital physi
cians. F. A. Slayton of South Main street
lift the city last night for Morrisville.
where he will groom his trotting horses
for the Morrisville fair this week. Mr.
Slayton shipped his speedsters from Bar
ton last week to Morrisville, after they
had participated in the races at the Bar
ton fair last Wednesday and Thursday.
John B. Smith, a graduate of the class
of 1012 from Goddard seminary and from
Tufts college in the chemistry course
The membership of the local circles wasast tjun(., passed through the city last
increased by 13 and the increase at large nip),t from his home in Williamstown
was 11. During the year the follow ing ia Amherst, Mass., where he has secured
siime were raid: 100 for the education1,, position as chief chemist at the Mas-
of a Japanese girl, .2. toward the salary Uachtisetts experiment station. He will
of a Japanese missionary, ,.'!0 for a commence his new duties Sept. 1.
North Carolina mission. $10 for the edii- With the expiration of the present
cation of a student at St. I-awrenee uni- j opera hoitse lease only two days distant,
verity and $10 for the state superin- . ,IiP board of aldermen will meet in regu
tendent. The entire amount received r session to-night to ascertain what
was $253.71. I the property committee has accomplished
St. Johnsbury. Aug. 20. The annual j jn the way of reaching terms with a new
meeting of the t'ni er?alit convent ion I lessee. Nelon A Austin, w ho succeeded
to Vermont and the Province of (Quebec I Kox & Eaton as the lessees in September,
opened last night in the Church of the 1015, notified the aldermen May 1 that
Messiah. The opening session was oe- they would not renew tne lease at the
voted to the Young People's union. Wes-j price raid lat year. Since the notice
ton Cafe of North Montpelier opened ( 9 received practically nothing has been
the meeting. Stanley Miller of hast, done ui the way of nmling a satistactory
action on the part of Rumania for nearly furnished men, hut the fire had gained j(orjnth .president of the union, gave the j lessee. To-night, too. the street com
. .. .. . 1 l. i ... t.. : ..... . . . . . . a. i -.
BALL PLAYERS SOLD.
Zimmerman of Chicago Traded for Three
New York Gianta.
Chicago, Aug. 20. Heinie Zimmerman,
third basemen, wa traded bv the Chica
go National league club Iat night to the
(Cctticaed on ehth ye .)
l. iers stated that it a strike i called .New York C.aints for Ijirrv IVivfe. en
the situation in the New FiiL-'anJ .i -!( of ti. v . Va,v ii,,... .
trict, where there are 3'Vi ra,iroad 'f rt baseman and Jaoobsen, an outSeU
run, will be directed froa Bvttoa. er,
two weeks. No illusions were indulged j 1rl Headway mai it was impossible to;,nlllll,j a,i !ress and responded to the ad-imittce is expected to have ready it re
in, but it was thougnt the Kumania j " w"""8. inoj-.i. was
government might reconsider the mutter insured.
HENHOUSE SPRAYER EXPLODED.
and possibly shrink from the step taken
Sunday.
It was known here that the entente
aflle proposed using Rumania territory . Causing Destruction of House and Two
tor a nusstan advance nzainsi Austria-;
dres-, of welcome In- .Milton r Mont-; port on the proposal to pave south .Mam
gomerv of St. .Wiiishury. The annual street, build the Jail branch bridge, and
, , 1 T, . . I , I. a J
eernvn was (ipiiotpi oy ie. ii. ii. , lav a rpmrm on i.aiminien
N'iles of Lvndonville. The convention ' street. Although specification for the
oiith Ms in street proj-t were prepared
br the citv engineer more than a week
will continue through Thursday morning.
Hungary and Bulgaria. Rumania, it was
argued "here, would in that event, consul- j Craftsbury. Aug. 20. Fire destroyed
ering the Rumanian antipathy toward 1 the two-story dwelling hue. hore barn
Austria-Hungary, join the fories fighting ! anj henhouse on Charles Root's farm
against the central powers. j m ar I raft oury yestersay. Ihe fire was
Little i known here f t trie intentions ;caul by the explion ot a can in wli-. h
the central powers 3g;nt Kumn.:u they were mixing kerosene and some th-' ycter ty after a
but it is felt tint Rumania cannot aiotl r tijionx for ursvug t-e hecinu. weeks.
John Cavaghan left the city last night
ago. no move was ma le bv the e.iuncil
men until last week when the paving
for Concord. X. H.. where he is making a question w discussed at regular and
t-tr of m few w.--ks with relative. ! spc is sessions. Immediately after the
Mi's Ida V. Cook of South Vain 'ali.-rmanic r-ten. the board of civil au
'reet. chief .perstT at the renUal or; -e ; thorny mM in the court room at .
.!' tSe Vermont Tl. A Til. t o r-turTiel ! o to k ti t-g:n n reiion of the check-
a-tion ut three l:t to be used in I": September fnmar-
