7? lEutmmn fteralft
KLAMATH COUNTY'S
KLAMATH FALLS
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
,vinlh Yer-No. 3,083
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, TUESDAY, AUGUST 29, 1916.
Price Flvt Cents
NAY RUN RAILROADS BY MARTIAL LAW
Hi
BE IS BEING DRAWN
TO PROVIDE FOR THIS
PRESIDENT PLANS THIS ACTION
IF STRIKE IS CALLED
Attorney General and Commerce Com.
mllllcn li AnUtlng In Making Bill
Htpviei President Hee Told Tiln.
men of HI P', But SrothirV. d
Orny That They Have Been 3s In.
fettled.
United I'rcxH Scnlcn
WAHHINHTON, l C. Aug. 29. -'
Military operation nf tlio rallroada o(
tbe United HtHtcrt with the present ,
trainmen, under military draft, Ik the
course President Wilson contemplate,!
ll nation ldo strike In called by the
railroad bruthrrhoods next Monday. ,
Senator Newtond nf Nrvndn. after a
conference with Prcitldcnl Wllnon, linn
tcpa tbe preparation of Mich a Mil.
He la being aaslated by Attorney (irn-
eral Gregory, the Internlato Commerce
Coanisalon and Congressman Adam
m. i
It la rumored Hint President Wllnon'
lilt night (old the brotherhood rxecil
Uvea of hlM plan, but the brotherhoods j
deny tbla. - j
President Wilson thin afternoon nil
ireered a Joint session of both houses
of rongreim, urging speedy legislation
toawt a strike, and "safeguard the
life and Interest nf the nntlon." '
He aided for laws providing for an I
elaht hour day for railroads, enlarged
l-owera to the Interstate CommetriH
Cenimlsiilnn, n law ttlmllar to the ('it.
liidlan disputes act, and a law empow j
t'lng the president to draft trainmen
Into military operation of the roll
nuils. He asked these lawn an "permanent
nd necessary nililltlnns to Inw." Pi en
Ment Wilson outlined hit efforts to
rrerent a strike, Imi said they "ended
In a complete deadlock."
"The country fare a national rnlntii
It), food supplies will bn slopped, coin
n.erce paralied and countless IIioim
ndi may he brought to thn point nf
utmallon," said the president.
He told concrete that hn had offered !
n eight hour day an a basis of settle
mem because Hie "whole Hplrlt of tlio
Ime and preponderant evidence from
wnt economic erperlenee," fnvora
MKUday. He declared that thmn'1
fdi do not cine t ry ol, U, HM.
Frances of w ,,,(.sldent amj c0,,.
grew. .Th(.y nk ,)0Hl (hnt h(w
"hould be furred lo leld. If they miMt
Jlld,"hcaald.
jm railroad brotherhoods hnvn Intl-
Franchise for
Referred to Committee
J city council at cvciiIiib refer-'
r" o the limn ronimllteo tho fruit
lse. which, if ,MHBnl w Bn,nt ,
Keno i(IWpr (..,.. .. -... ...
? wTta e,M"y In Klanmth KallH.
BhectH and read In full to tho
mrJ!lW",, re,,, uncllman Math
2ve4 toreferlttothellKhtcom-
"T"" hl committee.
mim PUrpoHCH, that tbe fran-
luntid (hat llioy Intend to exeiuto
llieli plaiiH for a walkout next Mum
i'a unless emigres pnsscH Biillsr.ifi
loiy legislation befi.ro then. The hca li
of the brotherhood say they are not
miMinilrod lo lencind the stilkn rati,
lull only ran fix Hie time to Htrlke, un
less both sides piiloiiHly acrepl Wll
Mm'n propositi. Tlio brotherhood exec
utives thin mornliiK agreed to lejoct
the rnllroa'dn' "flr.nl proponnl"
The brotherhood have formally ;iro
tinted lo a bill Mmllnr to the Canadian
disputes act, saying It In tlio "mom
'( Hint means of Insuring thu bond
ago of tho worklngmnn known hIiico
the days of iilaverv," and gives rnpll.il
titan lo prepare for n Htrlke. It Is no'
known whether or not they will fl;;lit
tho net If It Ih panned before n strike In
(.Hied.
The rallroadM n-e lining up their mi
employes and stil'co breakers for an
emeigeliry.
Tim district rhalrmen of tho broth
ft hoods will leuvn Washington Imme
diately, leaving to the president of
the four orders authority to direct the
etrlke. The tiillronilii nay tho htrlke
linn been postponed. They declare thn
brotherhoods will not dare to strike
while rongiess la considering remedial
legislation.
IS HSKED 10 BE
MAID II RE6ETTA
MlftS WAIVE JACOBS OF KLAMATH
CALLS RECEIVES INVITATION
mOM MISS MURIEL SALINC,
QUEEN OF REGATTA
An Imitation to art an one of the
iniildri at the Astoila tecutla on Sep
leinlier 1, 2, II, and I n.." been rere!ed
li MIsh Vitle .lacobs daughter of
Mr. and Mm. I.. JmcoIw The linllu
tlon umien from Miss Aluriel Sallnq of
IV:ullenn, who will ho iiueen of Hie
reKiilta.
Hccaiise the lime between now and
the open I n k of the icKatta Ih mi nliort,
MIhm Jarohn will not be able lo urrepl
thn Invitation.
MIhh HalliiK iiIho wiih (piecn of the
Portland Hoho Festival, and Iiiih ex
tended InvllalioiiH to act an maldx to
all thn youiiK women who were her
maids at the festival. MIhh Jambs
was one of thn maids.
Power Co.
chine per piopetty of the tompaiiy in
JMnniiitli FiiIIh eaiinol bo Hold or trans.
fen oil wllhout-tho coiiHenl of tlio foun-
ell, tint! die best apparaltm known to
the prJcnllflc woild must he lined, that
provinlon muHl bo niadn for thu lit
nw! Bufoty or tho people or Klamath
J'ivIIh. I but other companion may uso
fho poleH If Hiteli use (Ioch not Inter
fere with the Korvice Riven by tho
Keno Power company, (hat tho city
nay purehaHO the Keno Power com
pnnyV plant In Hh entirety at tho ex
piration or the franchise period.
h tbe, matter now Btands tbe fran
ehUe la In the hands of tbe light com
inl(tee, which may report to the coun
cil vhen the 'committee is ready.
floveral buslnesa men and other cit
izens welo at the, council meeting lust
evening. .
,WVWI''-SWWW. ''''tS
Big Railroad Chiefs Oppose
President Wilson in Strike Talk
" .," t
awfVd H HHaf aLKlillbUatawlH llBlrR''4aal
MZlrt'f'rjnL aaW,,... HaBlaHamS HfBL Hkal
I WitM&i2w. gg, .T'j;-JaBgggil"- CBM3B IgflBFigflnbaaaV
kfVTt. H;iil 1 ' T FaK?IJM'Ol2rgggglgHg1ggV 'WUiy&'-M ' '''A
JKliM W$mi HnP Mfl fell
Ste;&y ySmwJ WKm mifMt && ;
&?? $JM&j&a! fef Wmb JkJm$.i h i
gggHI iBggLi ggB! HgagMaw'KBfibggHgav g3s.'gl??.5-v---r.C ?B
ggSBLgBBflggf gttfttttttttgtVl W&:!H
gttttaflgttttttttttttflgttttt BgttttttttfljgttttarB ;gft-v4"lgffl'f''i
gttttttgttttttttttttHgttcgttf! H gtffggffftrVr 'BSgttt!''
agttttttttttttgtttttttttttl - gfgftW liHtirlfiw'-V--''.?
-mnnMaK aaBifuM WSJsi-JM
i
Here are three president of .(rent
illiii.uiM and the represenlathes it
In' greatest tnHtem in tho count r
nIio oppohe I'lesldeut WIHon's !!(;
ested iteltlement of the liillroad strike
iiioliliMM i:ilhlm l.ee, assistant Ken
till maniiKer of Hie Pcniih) hanln sjs
'em, h.is been the Hpokesmau of the
uamiKeiH roiiiinlltee, whlMi has ban
.toil Iho stiike matter for months.
Hale Hidden, president of the Chicago,
ItuilliiKtou A; Qulnry. spokesman for
lie lalhoad piesideutH railed lo Wnidv
iiRton by I'lesldcnt Wilson; Kalrfnx
llanison, pieiddent of the .Southern
ullwiiy, most Important road of the
iiiiuh, and l.ouls W. Hill, on whom has
list ilceended the m.iniiKcment of the
tie.ii Nortlieru and Northern Pacific,
tie opposed to an eight-hour day.
PIG MAN HERE
TO SEE PUPILS
iGENT OF STATE AGRICULTURAL
COLLEGE WILL VISIT ALL
SCHOOLS WITH PETERSON AND
GLAISYER
To Intuiest Klamath county bon
md gills In the statewide lmnoment
o i also better pigs, 1 J. Allen, state
agent for the llojs ami Gills Pig Club,
Is Item Horn CnrvalllH. In company
with Comity Agriculturist II, K. (Hals
er and County School Superintendent
Kied I'etoiMin, ho will visit suveral
sections of this county.
The better pig imiwmcnt is being
(ouducled by Ciegon Agiicilltuial Col
lege. It is Hie plan of the college, lo
eucouiage hos and girls 111 all pails
of Hie slate lo inisn n few thoiough
In ol plg.i. The Hist pii7.o is u Hip or
two weeks lo Oiegon Agrlciillural Col
lege, and tlio second n trip lo tho Oro
gon Stale Fair.
Tho wnik or Mr, Allen is not restrict
ed to Iioit glowing, but includes woik
fur gills in cooking and sewing and
many other blanches.
Thomas Infant Dies.
Helen Gladwin Thomas, the infant
daughter or Mr, and Mrt. Bert C.
Thomas, died suddenly this morning.
The infant was about five months old.
Th funeral will be held tomorrow af
ternoon u Whltloek's "undei taking uur-
lors mid will be unvote.
Strahorn Tells Portland
of Railroad Prospects
'I he following Is taken from the Oic
son Journal or Sunday: J
Wiih sitrxcys Dl per cent completed,
work on tho actual construction of tho'
Oiegon, California & Eastern railway
probably will begin et this fall.
The llrst work Is to start at Klamath
Falls on the north and south line to
Mind Ilend. It will comprise some
foil) -one miles and tap the Klamath
Indian leservution and the Spraguo
Uler Valley, which even now are in
a high slate of cultivation.
Hut this construction work depends
entiicly upon whether or not Klamath
Falls and Its people fulfill promises to
llobcit K. Strahoin, piojectorund pres
ident of the pioneering railroad which
he hopes to see, built across Central
Oregon to connect up flvo railroad
lines that now stop at the very edge
of the Interniouiilaiu empire.
Mr. Strahorn returned yesterday af-
Icrnoon rrom a six weeks' automobile
tilp through Central Oregon, Northern
Newuln and California and the Rogue
and Willamette valles, He was ac
companied all the way by Mrs. Stra-
horn, the couple finishing an even 2.-I00 the rovte from Bend to Klamath Falls,
1'illes by the gasoline route. So 'and It is practically completed for the
pleased wore they with tho pleasure route between Klamath Falls and
pint of tho Journey that they expect to I,akeiew, save for a pot tlon traversing
go to their honm In Spoknne by thojgeveral townships of hilly land. Chief
Maine automobile, by way of PugeKngoneer N. H. Rogue is now making
Sound and across tho mountains H icconiiulssanco of this poition.
through the Yakima country. That( So it is that by the time the local!
will mnko their tilp an oven 3,000-mlte'ties which expect to benefit from trans
clirult. Jportatlon have canvassed their re-
Mr. Stialioin spent nearly three sources and decided what they can do
weeks in tho Klamath country and tho toward gaining for themselves a rail
legion dlicctly tilbutary, studying jimtlroad line, all tho estimates will have
what transportation needs are most ,heen made, and all the lines flguied as
Impoitnnt and what their effect would.
be upon development.
Hcfoie ho left Klamath Falls he
had the satisfaction or seeing petition'
eis stnrt out to gather signatures to
legalize n special election that would
decide whether or not a 1300,000 bond
Issue' should bo floated to offer the rail
road projector aid for tbe line.
Mr. Strahorn was not particularly in
sistent that tbe flist construction work
should be on tbo Klamath Falls end of
tbe system. But so thoroughly have)
the people there been rouged to tbe (jon of lands by drainage In the Klani
possibilities and benefits of tbe project, I
I nnri an pni-nr have they manifested
In '-
themselves that Mr. Strahorn ald
they probably will see the first dirt fly.
Hut developments in the situation
around Bend are hardly less encourag-
ing, according to the road builder's re
port. He said the people or Crook coun
ty have fairly outdono themselves,
have secured right or way Tor nearly
fifty miles to Millican, have donated
terminal property and made other lib
eral proffet.
And so, when work starts on the
line, the Bend portion will not be far
behind the Klamath Falls part. But
as Tor the rorty-one miles that Is con
templated as the immediate construe
Hun out or Klamath Falls, Mr. Stra
horn said the region to bo developed is
already rich, and would be n money
maker ror the railroad almost from the
start.
Out of a maze or some 2,500 miles or
preliminary lines, the surveys for the
miles or actual line are now complete
nave ror some twenty-five miles. The
line Is fixed for the route between
Bend and the junction with the Oregon
Eastern at Crane; the lino is fixed toi
to cost and gradients and the myiiad
factors that enter Into construction, bo
that the grading may follow within a
few days or weeks uHer the word "go"
1b given.
The lower end or the line rrom Klam
ath Indian reservation north or the
Sprague River is already under cultiva
tion. The Sprague Valley is or rich
soil, now yielding good crops. In be
tween, for nearly forty miles, are vir
gin forests of magnificent timber
Mr. Strahorn reported that reclama
(Continued on Page 4)
GERMANY EXPECTS
WAR FROM GREECE
TO REGISTER FOR
SCHOOL MONDAY
HIGH SCHOOL -STUDENTS WILL
HAVE NO STUDIES FIRST DAY
OF SCHOOL EXCEPT RIGISTRA
HON AND ARRANGING COURSES
.11 1 . .!.. . .. j .,-
Klamath eountv hleh Kehnol rtnrlnu tlio
'coming fecbool year are requested to ' Copenhagen says that Germany be
report for rcKistration at the h!ch ' llecs a declaration of war by Greece
btl.ool building Monday. September
during the hours 9 to 12 a. m.. and
J. 30 lo 4 p. m. The only duties re -
quired or students on September 4th
v. ill be the filling of the registration
blank and the arrangement of the in
dividual progiam.
All students are required to report
on Tuesday morning at 9 o'clock and
assume their assigned seats in the
study hail at which time important an
nouncements will be made. No text
books should be purchased before
Tuesday. . -- - "v .
All who are contemplating entering
college after finishing the high school
course should be careful In making out
their schedule of subjects. The usual
requirement for college entrance in
cludes three ears of English, one year
of algebra, one ear or plane geometry,
one j ear or history, and one year or
some science requiring laboratory
work. Students contemplating an en
gineering course at college should see
to it that their high school courses in
clude all the mathematics offered, to
gether with physics and chemistry.
A course in public speaking will be
offered this year. All debating work
other than required in the regular Eng- August 21st was lighter this year than
lish classes will be confined to this last ear to the same date, it is pro
course. dieted that the number ot tourists who
High school students who desire visit the lake during 1916 will greatly
places where they may earn a part . exceed those who saw it last year,
or alt of their board and hoom expen- j The fewer number of tourists up to
ses and persons who can offer such August 21 this year was accounted for
places are requested to communicate , by the fact that the park opened this
with Principal Bowman in person or
by phone.
Ball Players Leave.
Jimmle Clarke and Frank Bowden,
membeis of the local ball team, left
Ibis morning on the latter's ruotorccle
ror California. Bowden expects to re
turn in about two weeks. Eddie Bo
gart and Fred Carman expect to leave
tomorrow to play ball with Chico next
Sunday.
Back From Ridge.
Miss WHIa Leonard is homo from
Eagle Ridge, where she has been
spending a few weeks.
Keeler Bros. Employed
to Prepare Bend Election
Keeler Brothers of Denver, Colo,
financial agents, last evening were em
ployed by tbe city council to -prepare
nil oidinancea and other papers to be
used in the- coming election to bond
Klamath Falls for construction ot the
Strahorn railroad from Klamath Falls
to Sprague River. Councilman Doty,
MHTer, Strublo and Mathews voted yes
on tbe motion to hire Keeler Brothers;
Councilman Sheets voted no.
Nothing further can be done In the
way of hurrying the election until at
torneys for Keeler Brothers prepare
tbe ordinance and send it to the city
I council. Then it will be in order for
IS MAKING PREPARATIONS FO.1
SUCH A WAR
Mackensen, Who Directed Invaalon of
Russia, to Command German-Bulgarian
Troopa Agalnat Rumania, Hop
ing to Crush Neweat Enemy Before
She Can Be Assisted by Other Allied
Powera.
"" ' '"
TTnffswl tlmi-n 0Ast.
I LONDON, Aug. 29. A wire from
4,"s '"evltnble. Germany la preparing
for it.
1 A number of Greeks already are
leaving Germany, according to
the
wire.
United Press Service
THE HAGUE, Aug. 29. According
to Berlin advices, General von Mack
ensen will command the Gennan-Bul-g.'.-ian
operations aqnlnst Rumania.
Germany contemplates an invasion
o'. M imania, hoping to Quickly para'.se
nnd.clirjli.ate her f r.-i-i, the .war. 'Che
advjce.s i-ay Germin-Ru'pirian troooar
are ready to act at once.
United Press Service
THE HAGUE Aug. 29. It is report
ed .n diplomatic circles here that Herr
on Jagow, secretary of foreign -affairs,
and Under Secretary Zimmer
man have resigned from the German
cabinet as a result of the Rumanian
declaration of war.
CRATER LAKE TRAVEL
HEAVIER THIS YEAR
Although travel to Crater Lake up to
?ear a month later man in i9io.
Travel now is heavier and before the
teabon closes no doubt will surpa3S
the mark of last jear.
To August 21st this year 6,540 per
sons visited the lake; last year 7,660
persons had registered at hearquarters
by that date.
Leave for School.
Fied II. Chapman and Miss Helen
I Chapman left yesterday for Everett,
Wash., wbcio they will attend the
Everett high school. The former will
finish high school at the'end of the
first semester, and will then enter the
University of Washington.
tho city council to pass it. The ordi
nance will call for an election by tho
people on the question of whether or
not Klamath Falls shall bond Itself
for 1300,000 to be used In constructing
tbe railroad to Sprague River.
If the bond issue falls at the elec
tion, Keeler Brothers are -to be paid
?300 for their legal services. -If the
issue carries, and Keeler Brother' are
successful bidders for tbe bonds, no
charge will be made for the 'legal'aer
vices. It the lssuercarrles and some
other house buys the bonds, Keeler
Brothers shall be paid one per cent
of the Issue for their legal services,
-IB?
m
rw
t!
Im
M
l. i a
!'u
' ' , .
( i
X
