r
1796 J(1?1 ! Kfcv IS-r-r
VOL. LVIII. NO. 159
PRICE TWO CENTS
POPULATION 28,?'o0
NORWICH, CONN., TUESDAY, JULY 4, 1916
EIGHT PAGES 64 COLUMNS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
tabled Paragraphs
Sittings of Duma Suspended.
' London, July 3, 10.46 r. m. A Reuter
despatch from Petrograd Bays an im
perial ukase has been issued suspend
ing the sittings of the dujna until Nbv.
14.
$170,000 For New
London Harbor
Third Day of
Battle or Somme
Condensed Telegrams
Zionists from all parts of the coun
try are in convention in Philadelphia.
Gaston C. C. Maspero, archaeologist
and historian of France, died suddenly
in Paris.
NEW BD'0L
Major General Funston Relieved From Responsibility
for the Entire Border at His Own Request
WILL NOW BE THREE MILITARY DEPARTMENTS
General Funston Will Continue in Command of the Sourthern
Department Major General Bell and Brigadier General
Pershing to Command the Other Two Sections Only
the Appointment of a General Officer to Supreme Com
mand is Lacking to Give an Aspect of a Campaign of
Any Desired Proportions Nothing is Known Concern
ing the Probable Date When Carranza's Reply May be
Expected.
Washington, July 3. While the di
plomatic aspects of the Mexican diffi
culty showed no chancre tonight, war
department measures for a new dis
tribution of the border patrol clearly
indicated that months of active ser
, vice along the frontier await the
thousands of national guardsmen
gathering in the south from all parts
of the country. Only the appointment
of a general officer to supreme com
mand is lacking now to complete ade
quate administrative machinery not
only for border operations but for a
campaign of any desired proportions
in Mexico should general hostilities
come.
Frontier to be Divided.
Under the new plan the 1S0O mile
frontier will be divided so that the
southern and western military de
partments will take care of the east
ern and western extremities of the
line respectively. Major General
Frederick Funston, relieved from re
sponsibility for the entire border at
his own reemmendation, will continue
in command of the southern depart
ment, while Major General J. Franklin
J loll, commanding the western depart
ment, will transfer his headquarters
ir.im Sin Francisco to Douglas, .Ariz.,
to bp in direct touch with his share
of the border work.
Pershing Offered Command.
The mid-section of the border line,
embracing all territory between El
J'a.'o and a point near Douglas, and
reaching northward to the. Colorado
state line, will be known hereafter as
the department of Xew Mexico. Un
der its jurisdiction will fall the ex
pedition into Mexico, based at Colum
bus, N. M., and Brigadier General John
J. Pershing, now commanding the ex
peditionary force, has been offered
the post of department commander.
A message went to General Persh
ing today, asking if he desired to as
sume the duties of department chief
in addition to those which now fa.l
to him as commander in the field.
Troops Drawing Nearer Border.
The expedition is believed to have
virtually completed the movement be
gun ten days or more ago, when Gen
eral Pershing, for strategic reasons,
ordered the lines drawn in closer to
the border. The war department has
no definite information as to the ex
act whereabouts of the various camps,
but it is thought that the most ad
vanced patrols now are within 100
miles of the border.
No Reply From Pershing.
Xo reply had been received from
General Pershing late tonight.. It is
possible that he will see difficulties in
the way of combining command of the
new department and of the expedi
tionary force under one head. In that
case there are indications that he
would be expected to relinquish direct
command of the expedition and estab
lish his headquarters at some point
on the border where he eouid give
personal attention to its need and also
supervise the disposition and training
of the thousands of national guards
men soon to be added to trie portion
of the line within the new department.
The war department has suggested El
Paso for department headquarters;
but left the final choice to General
Pershing. With the line of commu
nications greatly shortened, the gen
eral still would co-ordinate the oper
ations of the various regiments now
beyond the line, probably with the
senior colonel assigned to direct com
mand of the expedition.
In this connection officials here are
, known to be considering the effect this
course might have on General Carran
za's suspicions as to the real pur
poses of the American government.
The expedition, without a general offi
cer in command, would lose something
of its significance in military eyes, it
is said, and coufd be viewed as noth
ing more than the policing force it
was designed to be. Some officials
believe this might not be lost on Gen
eral Carranza.
Submission of the dual command
proposal to General Pershing, however,
was viewed here as confirming the
often reiterated statement that Presi
dent Wilson is not now considering
withdrawal of the expeditionary force
from Mexico. Final decision as to his
course, will await the formal reply to
Secretary Lansing's note demanding
that General Carranza explain his
hostile orders to his troops in the vi
cinity of the expeditionary columns.
Pershing's Orders Not Changed.
It can be stated on the highest au
thority that General Pershing's orders
have not -been changed in any respect
and that . the : shortening of his lines
was made necessary by purely mili
, tary questions x of supply and defense,
determined by! himself and General
i5inaton without, reference, to Wash
ington. Complete lack of any local
supplies of forago, as well ps the ap
: parent Imminence of a Mexican at
i tack In force, led General Pershing to
order hia men northward. Northern
jf.Iexlco has experienced many dry
j weeks. The result has been that the
I motor tralna have had to carry south
everytiUng consumedbytha' command
j and ita mounts.
f Statement by Mexican Ambassador.
Elisea Arredo'ndo, Mixican .ambas-
ilhatglbaigiQysroftatiigf j theAmerican
troops toward the border had created
a good impression in Mexico City. He
was hopeful that the differences be
tween the two governments would be
adjusted amicably. As supporting the
declarations of his government that it
was taking all possible steips to stop
bandit operations in the border re
gion, Mr. Arredondo said that as rap
idly as General Pershing's men had
moved northward, Mexican troops had
taken their places and a strict police
control of the territory had been
maintained.
This situation already had present
ed itself to state department officials.
While the hostile utterances and or
ders of the de facto government have
brought about a crisis, the object
which the Washington government
had consistently sought, it was point
ed out, seems in a fair way toward
being accomplished.
There never has been any purpose,
it was said, but to withdraw com
pletely from Mexico when the de fac
to government showed the willingness
and ability to furnish adequate mili
tary protection to the border region.
That now is being given, apparently
in the sections from which General
Pershing has withdrawn, although it
also has appeared that the Mexican
troops are being disposed for the pri
mary purpose of making a display of
force against southern movement by
the Americans.
Nothing About Carranga Reply.
The state department had no ad
vices today regarding the- proba'ti'e
date when a reply to the demands
presented more than a week ago
might be received. Mr. Arredondo al
so professed ignorance of his govern
ment's plans. The latest intimation
reaching the state department was
that the Mexican note would be trans
mitted through 'the embassy. JUr.
Arredondo emphatically denied sug
gestions that the communication al
ready had reached him and was be
ing held up for telegraphic instruc
tions to deliver it. That was the
course pursued with the long demand
for withdrawal of American troops
sent several weeks ago ar.d which was
brought by messenger from Mexico
City.
STRENGTH OF NATIONAL
GUARDSMEN ON BORDER.
30,000 Will Ee Either There or on the
Way Today.
Xew York, July 3. Approximately
30,000 national guardsmen of the de
partment of the east will be either on
the Mexican border or on the way
there on Independence day, it was an
nounced tonight at Governor's Island,
divisional headquarters. Reports from
the 22 states comprising the depart
ment showed that 60,000 troops had
been mobilized in all the states except
Kentucky.
Among the troop movements report
ed today were the departure of a
brigade from Pennsylvania, a regiment
of infantry from Maryland, Battery B,
First Field artillery, and ambulance
and hospital corps from this city
A Virginia regiment of infantrv. the
Twenty-third infantry of this city and j
the Seventh infantry of Buffalo were
ordered to entrain tomorrow. Within
the next 43 hours, it was announced
at headquarters, the Second infantry,
the Twenty-sacond engineers, the Sec
ond Field artillery, Squadron A, and
the remaining troops of the First, cav
alry at Van Cortland park will be or
dered to the border.
Divided Into Six Divisions.
The troops from the department of
the east will be divided into six di
visions on the border, it was learned
at headquarters. New York and
Pennsylvania troops will form di
visions by themselves, while other
states will be grouped according to
their geographical locations.
The headquarters staff was busily
engaged today preparing plans for con
centration camps for the various di
visions where recruits for the regi
ments in the field will be trained. The
tentative locations of the camps were
withheld from publication.
Letters Pouring Into Headquarters.
Hundreds of letters are daily pouring
Into headquarters from anxious par
ents of guardsmen complaining against
what they term the "futility" of send
ing "raw soldiers" to the border. (Many
of the letters suggest the delegation of
regular army officers to the guard
regiments.
The appointment of regular army
officers to the militia, it was pointed
out at headquarters, rests with the
war department, which Is now consid
ering -a score of such cases.
TROOPS RUSHED TO
ELEPHANT BUTTE DAM.
135 Miles Northwest of Columbus
Irrigates Valley 150 Miles South.
Columbus, N. M., July 3. Troone
of the New Mexico, national guard have.
heen ordered rushed to the EletihantJ
Butte dam, .13&fltfestoorUieastCo -
lumDus.
The danfaiawtheseecond jlargest aiti-'
ficial bodyof wa.ter!in th'eiworldaend'
irrigatesrfvaneyilorfrKOrinijeano -the
Bouth.
NATIONAL EDUCATION
ASSOCIATION IN SESSION.
Former President Taft Among the
Speakers 20,000 in Attendance.
New York, July 3. Preparedness,
education and plans for world peace
were discussed at the opening session
of the annual convention of the Na
tional Education association here to
day Among the speakers at the open
ing session were former President
William Howard Taft, President David
B. Johnson of the association, Dr.
David Starr Jordan, vice president of
the association, and P. P. Claxton,
commissioner of deoication.
The educators, numbering nearly
20,000, from all parts of the United
States, were welcomed to the city by
Mayor Mitchel and to the state by
Governor Whitman. On behalf of edu
cational organizations, President W. G.
Willcox of the board of education. Su
perintendent William H. Maxwell and
Charles B. Alexander, regent of the
University of the State of Xew York,
bade the educators welcome. Dr. Jor
dan responded.
The lesson of this year, Mayor
Mitchel said, is that "no country can
secure trained services m cases of na
tional disaster if it does not teach its
youth to take its place in the forces
of the defense of the republic."
Superintendent Maxwell, in a letter,
declared that if compulsory militia
training must come to replace the vol
unteer system in the United States, it
should embrace the training of all and
not of a chosen few. The military
training, he said, should not interfere
with cultural training, which would j
prevent military training from degen
erating into militarism.
Former President Taft devoted his
address to an exposition of the plan
and aims of the league to Enforce
Peace, of which he is president.
HUGHES IS STUDYING
APPROACH I NG CAMPAiGN
Equipping Himself to Discuss in Detail
All the Issues.
Bridgehampton, X. H.. July 3.
Charles E. Hughes today began a care
ful detailed study of all phases of the
approaching campaign a task which
will engross his entire attention during
the rest of his stay here, with the ex
ception of his short weekly trips to
Xew York. For more than a month
he expects to do little else than study
and ejuip himself to discuss in detail
all issues of the campargn.
Not only is he working Intermit
tently on his formal speech of accept
ance and on the ten or twelve speech
es he will deliver during his proposed
traris-continental trip which begine
earl- in. August, but he is going
through a vast amount of data bearing
on all issues before the American peo
ple with a view of laying the founda
tion for the entire campaign up to
election day.
Hundreds of documents, letters, re
ports, newspaper clippings and sug
gestions have been arranged for his
attention .and lie in a. battery of files
in his library. He told callers todav
that he had -left Xew York because he
had found it almost impossible to con
centrate his mind on his task amid the
interruptions there, that he expected
to prepare what he termed "the case
of the republican party against Wood
row Wilson" with the painstaking care
that a lawyer devoted to an all-important
suit, and that he had come to
Briaeehampton to get "mentally satu
rated with facts," in quiet and se
clusion. The Fourth will be observed quiet
ly at home by the nominee.
PROTEST TREATMENT
OF BELGIAN WORKMEN
Great Britain Sends Note to Commis
sion For Relief in Belgium.
London, July 3, 7.30 p. m. In a com
munication addressed to the Spanish
and .American ambassadors and the
Dutch minister here, as patrons of the
Commission for P.elief of Belgium, the
foreign office calls attention to a de
cree said to have been issued on May
15 by Governor Von Bissing, the Ger
man governor of Belgium. creating
more stringent laws against Belgian
workmen who refuse employment.
The foreign office protested last
September, through the patrons of the
commission, gainst decrees issued by
Von Bissing on August 14, and 15, re
garding labor in Belgium. Referring
to that protest, the present communi-
cation states that at tnat time the
Marquis of Crewe wrote to the patrons
that If the German authorities used
the machinery of the commission and
that of the Comite- Nat'onal for the
purpose of coercing the civilian popu
lation of Belgium, against its will and
conscience, directly or indirectly, into
the service of the occupying army,
they must themselves provide the re
lief which those bodies dispense and
all arrangements between the British
government and the commission would
have to cease.
In a subsequent letter Sir Edward
Grey stipulated that there must be no
interference by the German authori
ties either with the sale or free distri
bution of foodstuffs to those whom the
commission and the omite considered
deserving of such relief.
WOUNDED AMERICANS
FOUND IN CHIHUAHUA.
General Trevino Reported They Are
Being Returned to American Side.
Mexico City. July 3. General Tre-
l.vino reported tonight to tho war de
partment that a number or wounded
American soldiers who belonged to de
tachments engaged in the fight at
Carrizal . have been found in different
parts of the state of Chihuahua. He
stated they'were betagireturned to the
American side as soon as encountered.
Movements of Steamships.
Kirkwall, July 1. Sailed, steamer
Kristlanagord, from Bergen, New
York; July 2, Hellig Olav (from Copen
hagen), New York.
Fayal, July 3. Arrived, steamer
Re d'ltalia. New York for Genoa.
(Naples, June 25. 'Sailed, steamers
Regina d'ltalia. New York; 26th, Na
poll. New York.
Lisbon, June ZS. Sailed, steamer
.Roma, 'New York.
London, July oauea, steamer
8is
ftBSLrtfc. NetoraTonka T3d. St Xiouls. New
fYorkV" Sailed, eteanrers. Philadelphia,.!
fcNew JFork ;Tus3airTrr,OTa,'Juaasgtw.
WewQjrk,'&--. '-
RIVER AND HARBOR APPRO
PRIATIONS BILL.
A. $42,886,085 MEASURE
Conferees Agree on Amendments
Weymouth, Mass., Gets $200,000 for
the Improvement of Fore River
$1,080,00 for Los Angeles.
Washington, July 3. -Conferees on
the river and harbor appropriation bill
today agreed on a measure carrying
$42, SR6,G85. The bill as it passed the
house carried $39,600,000 and as it
passed the senate $44,000,000.
The conferees struck out the senate
amendment limiting the amount of
water to be diverted from Lake Michi
gan for the Illinois river improvement
and otherwise regulating the Illinois
river improvement.
An item of $1,080,000 for a diverting
dam in Los Angeles harbor was re
duced to $500,000 and to an appropria
tion of $220,000 for tlhe improvement at
San Diego harbor the conferees attach-
IN
NDEPENDENCE DAY
"The union of lakes, the union of lands,
The union of States none can sever.
The union of hearts, the union of hands,
And the Flag of our Union forever."
ed a provision requiring the city to
donate 500 acres of tide lands instead
of leaving the donation optional with
the city.
$170,000 for New London Harbor.
Other senate amendments agreed to
were $170,000 for Xew London, Conn.,
harbor; $1,000,000 instead of $600,000
for improvement of passes at the
mouth of the Mississippi river; $180,
000 appropriated for Duluth ISuperior
harbor and $180,000 authorized for the
same: $l,500,0Co for improvement of
the Mississippi river instead of $1,200,
00 0; $100,000 for Willipa river and
harbor, Washington, with authoriza
tion of $147,000 more; $200,000 improve
ment, "Weymouth, Fore River, Mass.
A provision inserted by the senate
authorizing investigation by the sec
retary of war of the character of ves
sels which Welland canal when en
larged would accommodate was retain
ed. The conferees struck out senate
amendments adding $437,000 for im
proving the Narrows of Lake Cham
plain, $50,000 for continuing improve
ment for the Sabine-Xeches canal,
Texas, and $25,000 for Arcadia harbor,
Michigan.
STEEL BUSINESS IS
BETTER THAN EVER.
Production is Larger, Profits Greater
and Wages Higher.
New York, July 3. In a statement
issued here today Elbert H. Gary,
chairman of the United States Steel
corporation, asserted that the steel
business in the United States, for do
mestic use and for export, Is better
than ever in its history. Production
is larger,. profits greater and workmen
are receiving higher wages, Mr. Gary
added.
Unfilled orders of subsidiary compa
nies of the corporation, he said, aggre
gate nearly ten million tons. The cor
poration is producing at the rate of
51,000 or 52,000 tons per day.
Discussing labor conditions, Mr. Gary
d: T"r siehietelltfl TPo
said: "There is little if any real ground
for complaint on the part of employers
or employes.
"To employers of labor,' declared Mr.
Gary, "I would say: Treat your men
right; treat them justly and liberally.'
To employes I would say: 'Loyal, effi
cient service is sure to be rewarded.
Do not permit outsiders to influence
you to act contrary to your own inter
ests.' To both employer and employe,
I would emphasize the fact that each
must rely upon the other for success;
neither is Independent of the other;
they must succeed or fail together."
Newspapers Raise Prices.
Atlanta, Gr., July 3. Prices of both
xf Atlanta's afternoon papers, the
Journal and "the Georgian,, were raised
from two tOi three cents I today. In-,
?CCTasea:cost$ofnodUction,was:glvn L
jaaj thBcause " v--3gj.',f
SHOWS THE FRANCO-BRITISH
LINES FURTHER ADVANCED.
RAILWAY THE OBJECTIVE
Impetuosity of the French Advance is
Shown in the Capture of Villages
Whose Streets Were Lined With
Barbed Wire.
Paris, July 3, 6 p. m. The third day
of the battle of the Somme shows that
the Franco -British lines have been
further advanced, with the French
right sweeping to the eastward south'1
of the faomme. A group of strategic
villages, a large number of German
prisoners and heavy guns have been
taken.
Only Three Miles From Important
Railway.
The advanced French lines are now
only three miles from the important
railway junction of Peronne, the de
fence of which has been greatly weak
ened by the capture by the French on
Sunday of Mereaucourt Woods, south
of the Somme, and between Feuilleres
and Frise. This was the strongest
fortified iposition of the German sec
ond line of defence on the entire front
of the attack, but the French division
which took Frise continued to advance
with such impetus that the Germans
were unable to resist, even under the
protection of this formidable work.
Fierce Struggle for Stone Quarry.
One of the fiercest struggles was for
the stone quarry, also strongly forti
fied, three quarters of a mile east of
Curlu. Here the Germans tried to
stem the tide by a desperate counter
attack, but the French-American colo
nials, with one of the most celebrated
corps of the French army, rushed the
position with such enea-gy that the
Germans broke before the bayonet.
The French success at Frise also
was brilliant, as it straightened their
line south of the elbow of the Somme,
thus avoiding exposure to cross fire.
The French announcement today of
the capture of the village of Herbe
court and the outskirts of Estrees and
Assevillers carries the advance about
six miles beyond the point of depar
ture Saturday.
Stone Houses Transformed Into Bat
teries. The impetuosity of the French ad
vance is shown in the talcing of these
villages, which were strongly fortified
with barbed wire entanglements across
the streets. The stone houses were
transformed into batteries of machine
guns and the entire villages were en
veloped in a dense network of barbed
wire entanglements. Military observ
ers say that these villages had a re
sisting power compared with that of
Douaumont.
Summing up the French advance
south of the Somme, two main fea
tures are disclosed: first, the occupa
tion for a length of eight kilometres
of first line German trenches from
the Somme to the village of Fay, and
including five villages; second, a dou
ble line of German trenches extend
ing from Haracourt Woods to Asse
villers. The struggle continues with
Intensity. Observers declare that the
first three days successes, while, great,
are only initial episodes in the in
creasing pressure of a vast offensive.
NATIONAL AMATEUR
PRESS ASSOCIATION.
Officers Elected in Annual Convention
in Boston.
Boston. July 3. The National Ama
teur Press association at its annual
convention today re-elected President
George J. Houtain of Brooklyn, N. Y.
Other officers included: Vice presi
dents, W. J. Dowdell, Cleveland, O., and
Harry Aldrich, Cutler, 'Me.; secretary,
William Harrington, -Vermilion, iS. D.;
treasurer, George Macauley, Grand
Kapids, Mich.
Mrs.,H. P. -Adams of Tapper Lake, (
N. Y.,-was elected offlctet;edltcr
A military train was
southern Bukowina and
soldiers killed.
wrecked in
200 Austrian
Two trains carrying the First Mis
souri Infantry arrived yesterday at
Laredo, Texas.
Fort Slocum, N. Y., touched the
highwater mark in recruiting, enlist
ing 107 men in one day.
All details of David Lloyd George's
appointment as Minister of War have
been settled in London.
A boy while disrobing for a swim at
League Island, Philadelphia, was mys
teriously shot and killed.
More petitions are pouring in on
President Wilson against the execu
tion of Sir Roger Casement.
John Southard, station agent at
Plainiield, X. J., was sandbagged by
yeggmen who escaped with $600.
C. E. Van Sant, aged 23, of Philadel
phia, was killed off Beach Haven, N. J.,
in a battle with a nine foot shark.
Daniel Barugian, Armenia's most
loved poet, died of wounds received
on the battlefields of the Caucasus.
Two men were killed and a third is
dying as a result of an auto wreck at
Five Corners near Lynbdook, L. I.
The National Guard Camp at Van
Courtlandt Park, New York city, was
opened to the public for the first time.
The entire force of mechanics at the
Panama Canal, 8u0 in all will vote on
a -strike because of a practical reduc
tion in wages.
Jack Barrell, aged 22, only son of
Finley Barrell, Xew York stock brok
er, was drowned on his father's estate
near Havana, 111.
Joseph L. Myers, importer, a pas
senger on the Lusitania, is suing the
Cunard S. S. Co. for $76,555 for person
al injuries and losses.
The 47th Infantry, N. G. N.Y., lost all
trace of the epidemic of sore throats
which attacked it in the armory, when
it reached Peekskill, N. Y.
Company A., 15th Regiment, N. Y.,
X. G., the negro regiment authorized
by Governor Whitman, was mustered
in the service of the stated.
During June, 1916, thirty-five per
sons were killed by autos in New
York, an increase of 45 per cent over
the same month a year ago.
Infantile paralysis continues to
spread in Greater Xew York. Fifty
two new cases were reported, 43 in
Brooklyn, 59 victims died during the
week.
George L. Way, formerly a promi
nent business man of Hartford and
an original member of the Putnam
Phalanx, died at his home here aged
71 years.
Ten persons were shot and fifty more
arrested in Berlin following tho con
viction of Dr. Liebknecht. Demon
strations took place at the Potsdam
mer Platz.
To aid the hoisting engineers who
are on strike along the New York
waterfront, 8,000 longshoremen and
7,000 tunnel and subway workers have
promised to walk out.
Public sale of 100,000 barrels of
American flour began in Rotterdam by
a committee of dealers acting for the
government. A great number of buy
ers appeared.
Missouri mounted police guarded the
first section of the military train car
rying New York XTational Guardsmen,
following threats that plans had been
laid to wreck it.
While army headquarters at El Paso,
Tex., announced the arrival of troops
to be stationed at El Paso, information
regarding the passing of troops to
other points is refused.
The four companies of the Arizona
national guard left Xogales, Ariz., yes
terday. It is understood they will be
taken by companies and distributed
westward along the border.
It is possible that ex-Presidents Taft
and Roosevelt may meet at the house
or Charles E. Hughes during the tak
ing of the campaign "movie" showin;
the candidate's home life.
County officers of Texas began in
vestigating a report that Mexicans
fired upon a troop train on the Mis
souri, Kansas and Texas road Sunday
night between Dallas and Lancaster.
Wisconsin National Guardsmen re
fused to entrain for the front until
the cars furnished had been replaced
by others that were satisfactory. The
first lot offered contained no headrests.
Some 60 members of the 65th and
10th N. Y. N. G., engaged in a free-for-all
at Stormville, N. Y., a "wet"
town two miles from Camp Whitman
and 48 landed in the guardhouse as a
result.
Several thousand pounds of powder
exploded in the drying house of the
Aetna Explosives Co., at Emporium,
Pa., and seven employes were killed
while five others were seriously
wounded.
A riderles motorcycle from which
Andrew Nelson, of 172 East Sixty
first Street had been thrown went on
for a half block in Central Park West
at Sixty-fourth street and struck and
hurt two passersby.
Hetty Green's holdings of Chicago
real estate and mortgages on Chicago
realty were estimated at from $10,000,
000 to $20,000,000 by real estate men
Monday. Her Chicago holdings were
at one time much larger.
Homes for 5,000 soldiers, In event
of war with Mexico, have been ar
ranged for in Massachusetts, accord
ing to an announcement made by Mrs.
William Lowell Putnam, president of
the Boston auxiliary of fhe National
Security League.
. The senate, following Its anntial cus
tom, voted to strike from the agricul
tural bill the appropriation for seeds
to 'be distributed by members of con
gress to their constituents. The item
heretofore always has been restored in
conference. -
Are Now Within Three Miles of Peronne, an Important
Strategical Point
BRITISH FORGING AHEAD, BUT MORE SLOWLY
British Attacks Have Been Forced Back From Some of the Po
sitions Which They Took Early Monday Morning
Aerial Activity is Increasing in the Battle of the Somme
The Verdun Operations Are Slackening, Although at
Some Points Bombardment Are in Progress Italian Of
fensive Continues Without Cessation Heavy Fighting
at Many Points on the Russian Front.
Under command of the dashing Gen- i
eral Foch, the French troops, which
are cooperating with the British in
the great offensive in the Somme River
region, have made notable gains in the
direction of Peronne, one of the most
important strategical points along that
front. Successfully they have captur
ed Herbecourt, Feuilleres and Flau
court and farther south French infan
trv stormed and occupied Assevillers.
They followed this success by carrying
the second line of German trenches as
far as the outskirts of Estrees. Then
came the capture of Buscourt and
Flaucaurt.
Something over three miles was
thus gained, which, added to previous
sains, gives the French troops a clear
advance of about six miles at the
farthest point, to within three miles
of Peronne.
Meanwhile the British, moving more
slowly but over a longer front, have
captured La Boisselle, where the fight
ing for the past two days has been of
the fierest character. The British al
so report "substantial progress in
some places"-and the repulse of many
counler-attacks by the Germans.
British attacks, however, have been
forcer! back from some of the posi
tions which , they had taken early on
Afonrlsiv morninr and it is evident that
the German artjllery firi has become
much heavier than during the earlier
stages of the battle.
The prisoners taken by the British
so far numDer wnne m- t-i
have captured 8.000 or more. Tne war
material taken by the French include
seven batteries, three of large cali
bre manv machine guns and trench
g'm Other batteries in casemates
also fell into the hands of the French.
Bvond admitting the withdrawal of
a division from their first line trench
es on the Somme, the German official
statement makes meagre reference to
the battle now in progress.
The Verdun operations apparently
are slackening, although at certain
points a heavy bombardment is being
carried out, but the infantry are rest-
'"A'erial activity is Increasing in con
nection with the battle of the Somme,
hundreds of machines oeJng engaged
in rcconinttering, directing the guns
and fighting. In three days' engage
ment the British have lost fifteen ma-
CinfcS.
The Russian war office ' reports the
cantur of 2. M0 prisoners in the vari
ous sectors of the eastern front. There
's heavy fighting at many points on the
Russian front and the Austrians have
opened a powerful offensive south of
Linewka and west of Lutsk they In
augurated other aggressive actions,
but, according to Petrograd, were re
pulsed. The Italian offensive continues with
out cessation, both artillery and in
fantry being employed In strong force
against the Austrians.
MACHINE GUNS PLAYED
AN IMPORTANT PART
In the
German Defense Against the
British Attacks.
Press Headquarters on the French
Front, July 2, via London, July 3, 6.30
p. m. Machine guns played an im
portant part in the German defense
against the British attacks, and also
in the British repulse of counter
attacks when organizing positions
taken. Both German and British have
them in amazing numbers.
During the bombardment before an
infantry attack the Germans remain
in dugouts so deep that they can be
crushed in only by a direct hit by a
15-inch shell. Instantly the bombard
ment ceases they rush out and man
any remaining machine guns or ei'en
bring up machine guns from the dug
outs. The British carry mobile ma
chine guns forward and the moment a
position they occupy they emplace
them.
All reports from those engaged in
the fighting agree that barbed wire
entanglements, however strong, have
been invariably well cut and there is
universal praise for the new mortar,
the invention cf a government civil
engineer in Egypt, which the British
have manufactured in large numbers.
But frequently the deep German
dugouts, instead of being rallying
points, become traps, with the occu
pants either surrendering or being
blown up by bombs thrown into the
entrance -when they refuse to surren
der. HOW GERMAN AVIATOR
WAS KILLED IN COMBAT.
British Account of the Death of Lieu
tenant Immelman.
London, July 3, 8.30 p. m. Tho death
of Lieutenant Immelman. the famous
German aviator, who was killed in a
combat with British fliers. Is described
briefly in a statement given out today
by the British aerial board.
According to this account Lieuten
ant Immelman in a Fokker was at
tempting with another Fokker to at
tack a British aeroplane approaching
An nay from Lens when another Brit
ish flier appeared and dived on the
two Fokkers, causing Lieutenant Im-
melman's to plunge perpendicularly,
the wings of his machine breaking on.
TRAINS LOADED WITH
WOUNDED ARRIVE IN LONDON.
Have Been Brought from the Battle
fields of France.
London, July 4, 12.40 a. m. 'Several
special trains loaded with wounded
from the battlefields in France arrived
at the three principal London stations
last evening. Great crowds assembled
at the approaches to the stations and
cheered the men, most of whom had
been wounded in the fighting on Sat
urday. In a few cases the men were still bo
dazed that they were unable to tell
what day it was, but the condition of
most of them was not very serious. It
was remarkable how few men were
suffering from shell or bullet wounds.
Most of them were victims of the bay
onet. The soldiers had vivid stories of the
battle to relate. A Gordon highlander
declared that his famous regiment had
added a glorious new chapter at Ma
metz to its history.
"The kilties led the charge," he said.
"They swept over the ground and car
ried the first line of battered trenches
without a single man falling. In the
outskirts of the village, however, the
Germans had concealed a number of
machine guns, and a hurricane of lead .
was poured into those in advance. But
the Gordons never hesitated. They
leaped into the trenches, clearing line
after line at the bayonet point; then
pushed into the village, although it wtas
still being shelled by artillery. As soon
as they gained a foothold, the eleva
tion of the guns was altered and a
curtain of fire poured on to the ground
behind where the enemy supports were
massing.
"Every yard of the village streets
was contested, but reinforcements
pushed up, and by nightfall the high
landers had secured possession."
GERMANS PLEDGE THEIR
ALLEGIANCE TO UNITED STATES
At Now York State Convention of the
German-American Alliance.
uBffalo, N. Y., July 3. The state
convention of the German-American
alliance closed here today with the re
election of the present officers and the
adoption of resolutions which set forth
that the alliance was not to be allow
ed to becomo the instrument of poli
ticians, but aeeh member should follow
his own political faith. Another reso
lution adopted by the alliance stated '
that in the Mexican crisis the mem
bers of the alliance placed their prop
erty and lives at the service of the
state and nation. This resolution said:;
"In consideration of the impending
crisis arising out of differences at our
Mexican border, be it resolved that
the German-American alliance of the
state of New York places itself fully ,
and unreservedly at the service of the'
state and nation and pledges the prop
erty and lives of its membres to thai
support of our government, to Whose'
continued glorious development as a!
free and Independent nation we shall!
ever devote ourselves."
The resolution was telegraphed to
President Wilson and Governor iWhit- j.
man, r,
EPIDEMIC OF INFANTILE
PARALYSIS IN NEW YORK.
Since
Saturday Noon There
Been 23 Deaths.
Have'
New York, July 3. The epidemic of
infantile paralysis here had -claimed'
up to tonight S2 lives. Since , Satur-i
day noon there have been 23 : deaths. !
Many new cases are reported. The!
department of helath today placed-'pla-cards
warning the public to keepi
away from streets where there are one;
or more cases. More than bw.wu
pamphlets, containing warnings and
describing preventives, were sent
broadcast over the city and suburbs.
Health Commissioner Emerson aiSke.d
the police to revoke all licenses atod
permits for Independence day celebra
tions tomorrow in those districts and
streets in whidh infantile paralysis is
prevalent.
WILD STORY OF STORM
COMES FROM PLAIN FIELD.
Approximately Thirty Places Struck
During Electric Storm.
Plalnfield, Conn., July 3. Reports:
tonight indicate that lightning struck;
in approximately thirty places In townj
during a severe electric storm here to
day. Xo great damage resulted, how-l
ever. It,wras estimated that about an
inch and a half of rain fell in the
ccrurse of an ihour. The downpour was:
accompanied by a fall of hailstones,'
some of them as large as marbles.
Hay Resolution Signed. j
Washington, July 3. President Wil
son today signed the Hay resolution'
to provide for hringing members of the
national guard into the regular army,
service. J
r
