.- 'f.
s
THE
ECAST.
Fair to-da;
moderate
ds.
IT SHINES FOP ALL
northwe
Highest tem
; lowest, 65.
Detailed wont
re-poi ts on page 1 1
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 308.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, JULY 4, 1916. Copyright, IMS, by tHe Sim Printing and PublUthtng AaoclaUon.
ONE CENT
In (It-culer New Vnrk. 1
,lersr.t I l( nml Newark. J
Klionhrrr,
TWO CUNTS.
SS
LV... r
RerBBBBBaiay , .o i
3T
WILSON PLANS
TO BRING ARMY
OUT MEXICO
lYrsliinff Already With
drawing Toward Bor
? der, Is Report.
KOW ONLY 100 MILES
SOUTH OF COLUMBUS
Frrsidcnt Hopes Thus to
Save I. S. From Plunge
Into War.
LOOK TO CARRAXZA
TO PREVENT RAIDS
First Chiefs Forces Now
Moving Up to the Amer
ican Line.
WsniN0T0N, July 3. Preparations
re believed to be under consideration
for u gradual withdrawal of the Ameri
can forces from Mexico. Rather than
plunge the two countries Into war It
Is understood that the President In
prepared to abandon n.s soon na prac
ticable the original purposes of the
Pershing expedition, and leave to the
forces of Gen. Carranza the duty of
patrolling the territory south of the
Rio Grande. Probably only an attack
ty the Carrunza forces, is the belief,
upset this programme.
Technically there has tsjen no change
of pulley and no orders to Gen. Persh
ing to withdraw. Actually, however,
the retirement has begun. On reliable
authority It may be said that the main
base of ,he punitive expedition is now'
located less than 100 miles south of
Columbus.
To ntaruntr Completely.
How long it will be kept there will
be determined by developments. Rut
l tile purpose eVt'JltUUlly tO Com-
Dliiilv ev:iriiiii the fn.mirv Tk,...
will be no change ns far as can now bo 'lay rushed back F.nst to day In (lalther was certainly under the lm
ascertained 'rains with full right of way I predion that Oen. Wood wanted the
vXn..?r';, b"Ua,lon f ""Mover passenger train movements. regiment to entrain, and that was the
jXut onul (.uard and Its despatch to thjt Kl'Paso Is to become the station of a1 crdcr Gen. C.alther transmitted to Col.
border. In conjunction -with the regu- keleton brigade of Field Artillery under Charles A. Utile of the First,
lar army it will be used In patrolling , the command of Col. (!r.inirer Adams of
the American side of the line, and will
U available for Use In Mexico should
the situation again grow critical and
nipnre Uliilstlc steps.
'im-i.un in uie nur Lieuartmeni in-
1st that the retiring of Gen. Pershing. nCctlcut and Hlwde Island, which ar
who a few weeks back wan established expected to arrive shortly.
t N:iiniiUli.i, IrtO miles south of the The concentration, ncordlng to mlll
b ruer, has been dictated purely and tary men. will make El Paso the laruest
' l.v by military considerations. ' artillery station In the Vnlte.l State.
min , with the native fodder supply of , ,m men and eighteen guns, began
crinii,etely ruined by u period of,
dimisht and with CMrr.inzlstas concen- l
tr.i iik nt points from which the line
i t' ' ' 1 1 1 1 n ii 1 1 1 ia t i ii n could be cut, Oen.
Perilling. It was explained, found hlm
'f In a mure or less precarious posi
tion. ItetiKoiiN fr Move.
.Military expediency required him to
hoi ten his line, staff officers here as-
sm and they add thut he acted larelv '
on hH own reMuinsllillltv. Moreover.
they assert, should It become neces
mi lor the I'nlted States to Invade
Sit: mi ci no good purpose would be
seived by keeping Pershing further
"Utli than he now Is, Inasmuch as an
imaslon would not bo along the lino
which Pershing followed In his pursuit
of Villa, but In three columns along
tli' lines of the railroads south from dertaklng llrm to receive the bodies
F.I I'.iso, F.agle Pass and Jirownavllle. 1 of th o men killed In the Carrlzal bat
LaguiM da (Juzman, In the vlcln- tie, including those of Captain Iloyd
I'J of which the Pershing main ! nl Lieutenant Adair. Mexican otib
tmce is now believed to be lne,rt clals have offered to furnish a special
-it the tlrst "water hole" south
of Columbus. N. M and Is the points
st which Pershing's line first touches
tin .Mexican Northwestern Hallway,
ln'ii In the event of trouble he could
f ie
I'espite the fact, however, that offl-C'-rs
at tlie War Department assert that
the ie,ent shortening of the lino was
tot dictated by ordeis from the White
House nr State Department It Is under
Hood to tit In with the plans which the
Administration has under consideration.
It was recalled In ollleial circles this
Mterrmon that at the outset of the send
oig of the Pershing expedition Into
J'exien It was announced by the Presl
unit th;it the force would be withdrawn
us fesin as the Mexican troops were able
to take chaigc of the situation,
three (Mialneles In Sighl.
rteeent developments are said to have
eonvinced the President and his advisers
'at the American forces cannot be kept
ii Mexko indellnltely without a clash.
"i oiil the threatening attitude of Car
r.'inj.i but also the Incident at Carrlzal
ire s.nt! to have convinced them of that.
It Is leiillred that three obstacles
iiust he overcome before tho trooi can
(lnnlly withdrawn.
Plr.it To convince the American
Plbllc that such a com he would be the
wisest if war Is to lm averted.
Second To avoid making It appear
that tne withdrawal was In, response to
the threatening attitude of Carranza.
Third To make It certain that Car
rinz will patrol the, territory effec
tively and cooperate with the United
Plates in preventing a lecurrence of
the bandit ralib..
President Wilson Is known to have
"'milled in his Intimates recently his
t!'-iei munition to avolel war with Mexico
' " at the saciitlin of his political
' Hums next Noveinher In his speech
week before the Press Club In New
i lie indicated clearly that he could
' i good to be au-oniiillshed by such a
v Hi" ailvlseii Iiiivc Indicated his
CoHflnim! on iTVilrel Pagt.
BIG GUNS IN JUAREZ
MENACE TO EL PASO
Garrison Found to Be Manned
by 700 Mexicans and
Cannon.
ALL QUIET ON BORDER
El Paso, July S. It was dlscov
ered to-night that the Juarez garrison,
reported evacuated a week ago, la
now garrisoned not only by 700 sol
diers, but that the troops have nix
modern cannon and twelve machine
guns. The guns have been brought
In under cover of darkness, It la de
clared.
While the garrlaon would not com
pare with the Amerlccan force on this
side of the line, alx cannon and
twelve maclilne puns could wreak
much havoc In Kl Paso If turned loose
Indiscriminately, military men my.
With much of the mllltla of the
United States now on the Mexican
border ready to reinforce Pershing
and his punitive expedition In Mexico,
or to cross at any other point that
the exigency may demand, the excite
ment of the past two weeks began to
cool to-day and another long wait for
developments In the Mexican situa
tion la predicted,
"Carranza Ih not going to precipi
tate a fight that will mean not only
his undoing, but the subjugation of
the Mexican nation If he can help It,
and the policy of the United states Is
not to start anything," said a military
official of high rank.
Force of Guards at Columbus.
While the movements of the mllltla
are being kept secret by the officers
In charge of their plnclng, It Is known
that large numbers have been moved
Into Columbus, the Pershing base, and
that arrangements are being made to
send them In as fast as needed.
It was announced by the quarter
1 i",'
and that the troops now here and tho
three new regiments of regulars to be
organized here will be sufficient to
protect this point or for any emer
gency action against Mexican hos
tility. Word was received to-day that
not nil the mllltla would bo brought
' . .1... 1 ... .1 1 t 1 .. ,, I V .1.
the .-nr. which hrnm-hl the National
( 5 iiardsmen here Saturday and Sun-I
the Fifth Field Artillery. It was learned
"ere to-night. Organizations to make
un ,hc ',r, the Klf,h United
I Claims ,rillieij, un' rnai .inin.ivtiu-
1 setts Field Artillery, both of which regi.
. . i., i.n.ru, fr,.,n i-n.
mounting their cannon on the Mesa
behind the city alongside of the regular
artillery, the noses of the guns pointing
trained here to-day and immediately
went Into camp.
The Three Xenr lleiflmenta.
Camp sites were selected at Fort
Illlss to day for the three new regi
ments of the regular army to be
formed nerc. una ine n.crr-,..u....:
. ii. n ,ei ret-imenis Hnn rruuv on
border duty begnn io arrive.
The Seventeenth cavalry, me -rnir-
ty-fourth Infantry and the Eighth
held artillery are to be formed at
Fort Illlss. These are all created un
der the now army measure, which In
creases tho strength of the army to
1H0.O00 men.
The quartermaster's department
let the contract to day to a local un
train.
CONGRESS MAY END AUGUST 20.
That Is Urnator Kern's Prediction
After Heelna- the President.
Wabhinoton, July 3. Senator Kern
predicted to-day after a visit to the
President, during which he discussed the
legislative situation, that Congress could
not possibly adjourn until August 20.
This was his prediction last week after
ho had consulted with his party con
ferees. His visit tn the President, which wns
to determine Just what the President
wns nri nared to Insist upon III the mo
ot legislation served only to strengthen
his conviction that the matters before
Congress would hold both houses until
the latter part of August.
The Senate has before It the army
and navy appropriation bills, the ship
purchase nnd the revciiue measures, all
of which will lead to long debates.
The Senate agreed to-day to adjourn
over until Thursday, thereby observing
tho Fourth of July.
GETS BACK $50 BY WEEPING.
Hellmnn Xnys He Will .MX Flash
Ills Money In Public tgnln.
After showing $50 he luid In his pocket
to his fellow wotkiuen and a bartender
(ieorge C, Sellman of 433 West Twenty
fifth Mi oit lost tho 160 and didn't get it
back until ho hail gone to Police Head
quarters and convinced the finder by
breaking down and weeping that the
money really was his.
Sellman, a painter for the Kips Hay
llrewlng Company, showed the money
among other places In a salovn near
SIxty-tlfth street and Second avenut.
Soon after H. II. Urasslngton of 31?
('anal street came Into tho saloon with
IG0 he had found. The bartender called
In Hellman, but It twk the trip to Pollen
Headquartirs and Dually Sellinau's teai s
tn make Hrasslngloii give up the t.Vi,
Sellmun said he wouldn't Hash t anymore.
NEW YORK
ORIOLE SOLDIERS
OFF IN PULLMANS
What Is More, These Mary
landers Did Not Wait for
Orders to Move.
RESTAURANT CARS, TOO
Baltimore. July S. Twenty-four
hours ahead of their orders and travel
ling like Major-Generals, the doughboys
of Maryland's First Infantry Regiment
are on their way to the border at Eagle
Pass, Tex., probably the only regiment
In the history of America that ever ran
away to war or war's alarm.
Technically, It appears, their departure
did not synchronize with the date set bv
SlaJor-(5en. Wood and the staff of the
Vennrtment nf thi Frist for their ffnlnir.
but the orders reached here shortly after
their solid trains of standard Pullmans
left l.tmrel nn,l so flip tnnffle sma to
lie straightened out and army officer are ' i;
smiling over the situation, keenly
I . .1... I ... lliu I t (. S, u..
.illlU-eil Ml liic nui:n.u,fcj v. tuv wmj -
landers. .
The First Regiment was waiting last
week at Harrington for word to go, but I
the word was slow In wining, and the I
bovs from Frederick. Hagerstown. Halls-
bury, F.lkton and Hyiittsvllle and the 1
half dozen other towns from which the I
First draws lis strength of 1.160 men
and fifty officers chafed at the delay, I
Finally they decided to light out for the
nurucr, miner uie iinyi rsniun turn wic
War Department and the Department
staff had fixed things.
There were no tourlt sleepers handy,
but the First wasn't worrying about a
little matter like the relative cost of l
tourist sleepers ns compared with the
regulation pluah. and an arrangement '
was made with President Wl'.Iard of the
Baltimore and Ohio Itallroad to fumlsh
standard Pullmans. Home say the rail
road furnished tho regular Pullmans at
the same pflce asked for tourist sleepers.
Others have a notion that Uncle Sam
will have to pay regular Pullman sleep
ing car rates, which would be about $20
or $25 a head for the 1,200 men.
Anyway they got started at noon last
Friday, and are mm rolling southwest
ward In style, with several cars equlplied
as table d'hote restaurant, ice water
aplenty, the fanciest kind of sanitary
and ventilation arrangements, and a
plentiful supply of food.
It Is certain that the regular army
officers had a srlock of surprise when
they heard that the First Maryland
was out of camp and gone. They hadn't
been ready for so much preparedness.
On the other
hand, Gen. Charles D.
DESERTERS HEAD MEXICANS.
One ItrcognUed by Captive tn Cmr
rlsnl Fight.
Kt. Paso. July 3. Americans who ha-e
deserted from some of the regiments on
the border are commanding companies
of Mexican troops, according to negro
troopers nf the Tenth Cavalry who were
captured at Carrlzal.
William (livens, a private In Troop K,
who was among the American prisoners
released at Juarez by the Carranza Oov
.V"""""- '"f" K?WLtrJ::
, " .y'Z
' lean troops In the Carrlza. fight. After
the battle the prisoners were put In
charge of the company commanded by
this American, (livens says he asked the
American If he had not seen him at
Columbus In the Twentieth Infantry, and
the American admitted that he had do
herted at Columbus.
(livens says he heard of other Ameri
can soldiers with the Carranza forces.
50,000 PLEDGES TO AID P. R. R.
Ilten Stockholders tn Assist I.lnr
In Keeping l'p Service.
The Pennsylvania Itallroad announced
yesterday that It will have at least 60,
000 men on the lines east of Pittsburg,
pledged and ready for special duty, to
prevent If possible a complete interrup
tion of the servlie In the event of a
strike.
. i.
I nis is inuicateii, occoreling to
(ielier.bl Manager S. C, Uing, by the vol
lime of responses that have been received
In answer to his call for volunteers.
Some of the englnemen, conductors and
firemen, he says, have even assured him
that they would remain loyal, and In
other branches of tho service, Including
the clerical and otllce forces, the ie
sponse has been general. Other volun
teers Include pensioned employees, men
who resigned to take up different work
and even stockholders.
BUS STRIKE PACT FAILS.
Vlen Itejeet Protocol Agreed Upon
hy Their Committee.
The Fifth avenue bus strikers at a
mass meeting last night at Murphy's
Hall, Forty-ninth street and Eighth ave
nue, rejected a protocol agreexl upon In
the afternoon by their committee, Itlch
ard V, Meade, president of the Fifth
Avenue Couch Company, and Federal
mediators As a result the company
says It will commence at once to operate
all Its lines with strike breakers,
.
The proiocoi was urawn largely
......... ...... .... ,
men Iscltargeei iiefore tne strike started
snouiu appeal ior reinstaiemeni
.T'1,0
company pledged Itself net to dlscrlnil
nate against the union nnd to raise
wages in to 20 per cent.
EXPLODING TIRE KILLS GIRL.
Flies Off Automobile Wheel, Strik
ing Her In Htomach.
Vonkkiis, July 3. Annie Valoska, 10
years old, died tn St. Joseph's Hospital
to-day us the result of Injuries sustained
when an exploding automobile tire flew
from the wheel ami struck her in the
stomach. Tho accident occurred on Sat
urday, and tho girl picked herself up
apparently unhurt. Yesterday she went
to the hospital.
Kdward Anderson of 164 Fast USth
atreet, Manhattan, the chauffeur of tho
automobile, was arrested to-day and pa
roled. Henry Paglnl of 171 West Soy
enly-ilrst street, Manhattan, owns the
cur.
("JAPT. LEWIS MOREY, Tenth United States Cavalry, photographed
at El Paso with his wife after he
3
'
il:
fjj
jl
;J
ofl
CARRIZAL SURVIVOR
SAW BOYD KILLED
Trooper Walked Sixty Miles to'
Relief Column Tells of
the Fight.
Kt, Paso, July 3. Sergeant D. Farrier,
C Troop, Tenth Cavalry, and Private
Krnest Johnson, K Troop, survivors of
the Carrlzal fight, arrived here to-day
from Slexlco, and were sent to the Fort
Illlss hospital.
Farrier Is suffering from a Mauser
bullet wound In his right wrist, which
he received when following Capt. lyd
In the forefront of the fighting. Johnson
Is not wounded. Farrier was but ten
feet away from Capt. Iloyd when his
commander was hit, and he siw him
fall. Then he fought his way out with
a six shooter and walked sixty miles
before he was picked up by Lieut. Mey
ers' s relief column.
Intsnuna- ii-ii u 'i Vs nrea tirif4ni itnrlor
cm Mnr.v He selieel n mnnnl nml
lode twenty-eight hours before he suc
ceeded In reaching the American base.
During this time he was without water
to drink.
Corporal F. X. Cooke, Troop K, Tenth
Cavalry, another survivor of the Car
rlzal battle, discovered by Slexlean sol
diers near Villa Ahumada with an arm
broken and near dead of starvation and
thirst, was turned over to the Amer
ican mllltla authorities at Kl Paso to-
1.-1 I. T..n-A I..II
ni inier nun nou ,ir. j..,,
Sunday night. He Is now In the Fort
Hlls hospital. The arrival of these
three negro troopers accounts for most
of those missing since the Carrlzal tight.
WOUNDED AT CARRIZAL.
Trevliio Heporls Anirrlcnns Found
In State of Chlhiinhun.
lM.e... Citv July 3 (Sen Trevino
Mixtto I.ITY. JUijr a. is n. fiLn.-el
repotted tei-nig to tne war Depart-
inent that a number of wounded Amerl
can soldiers who belong to detachments
engaged In Bhe tight at Carrlzal have
been found In different parts of the State
of Chihuahua. He stated that they were
being returned to the American hide as
""""
N. Y. C LOSES ON COMMUTERS,
Abase of Tickets Casta $1111,000
Vrnr. OIHeere Testify.
0. C. Paulding, general counsel of tho
New York Central Itallioad, and C. C.
i lliwi.'ir.l iiHslMtiml Ireneriil Mwenet.r
ass slant genera nassenirer
1 j ,."." .,".. 'u.'."
,.n,miinl, vesteMav Ihltl thn rnnil Inst
j -" . ... ' .
!nnn i,.t .1,. w.i,... m....
I Harlem, Putnam and West Shore dlvl -
slons through misuse of commutation
tickets,
The hearing was on a rule filed i
with tariffs by the railroad suspending
commutation tlrkets on these divisions.
According to counsel for the company,
25 per cent, of the commutation tickets
sold north of the forty mile zone are
abused, and scalpers have cost the New
York Central 1100,000 a year for sev
eral years. The revenue from commu
tation tickets on the four divisions Is
upwnrd of 11,000,000 annuiiy. Coun
sel for the road also suggested that
commutation tlrkets bear photographic
likenesses nf the owner.
... " .,7, TT ,,
Huron ( hlmln Blue fare ell.
Washiniiton, Julv 3. The Japanese
Ambassador, who leaves In n few days
for his new post In London, and 11 iron-
ess Chimin paid a farewell visit tn tho
White House to-day. They were re-i-i'lved
by the President and Mrs. Wilson.
I aBBBW ssBBBBBBsm t bbbbKbbbbI . ii I .. ibiiiiiiiHbbbbbbW ' -.sibbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbV jy
ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssWiVsssssssssr ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssar
1 "Br jlSiiiiiiiH .1
a r mm xfmmmmm
tssssKVW J A Jl.sssHsHlsW 4
I
J
won his way back from Camzal.
PARALYSIS BARS
MOVIES TO CHILDREN
Epidemic Also Prevents Some
Celebrations for the
Fourth.
Commissioner nf Licenses Bell ordered
yesterday that after to-morrow no chil
dren under lfl will be permitted to enter
moving picture theatres of the city until
fnriher nntlee. Almost at thn same time,
the Police ..epartment revoked tlfteen of
llfty-one permits for closing streets In
HrtHiklyn for neighIirhK)il celebrations
of the Fourth.
Hoth departments acted upon the re
quest of lr. Haven lhiicneon, Commls
sloner of Health, who Is seeking In
every way to prevent gatherings of chil
dren during the epidemic of Infantile
paralysis.
The Department of Health announced
nlsn that It had abandoned Its plans to
1 have free moving picture shows In the
parks during July ami August.
CLUB FOR INDOOR G0LP.
II, I. Whltne null Others 1 ne-or-poi-fltr
Link Club at Albnn).
AMUN-r, July 3. Harry Payne Whit
ney and other prominent persons are
the Incorporators of the Unks Club of
..1.1. 1 Ill flu.
.(.w- i tn k, nun ' I ,v, o.. .......
Sixty-second street, which was formed
ut the Secretary of State's otllce to-day.
The du, uembersblp organization
and Is formed for "social purposes" and
to foster "golf as played In Scotland, as
minuted bv the ltoyal and Ancient C.olf
Club of St Andrews."
riesldes Mr. Whitney the directors are
! Charles II Sabln. John SI, Itnwers, Fin-
' '"V ' I),J"""' K,ank t'rw" II"r
I W. De Forest, W Do L.mcev Kountze,
,,pnr.. It(,i,.,.rs Winthrop, William C.
Potter, Charles H. Slucdonald and Oeorge
C. Clark.
Plans for the formitlnn of the 1. Inks
l..l. ,.f V,.u V..1-1 veert .trlo-lMnlW. lu.
...,. '., ,. ,ri .-olrers to While
I Siilpnur springs, vv . v a., last repiemner,
vvl-en Charles 11. Slacdotiiild. a member
of the llrm of It. II. Thomns & Co
brokers, of "1 llroadway, took a train-
'" ' menus in me opening oi ine
new rireenbrler course
, t WHH nnnniincrd In January thnt a
Mte fur the proposed clubhouse had
been acquired by the purchase from Sirs.
' ".viuiiii rmii-r ui i" imusri. in an
nml an East SUtv-second street. The
n lie nil III m. I
The nliuis for the clubhouse call for
Th plans for
1 alterations to the two houses at nn ex-
l'" m fi"."v,
LINER DODGES WATERSPOUTS.
The Coiiiiis Mights Two anal Whales
on Xciv (Irlenns Trip.
The Morgan liner Cnmus, In yester
day from New Orleans, encountered two
great waterspouts 200 miles south of
llatteras on Saturday and sailed serenely
between them, after putting hor helm
hard over to clear the ono that seemed
bent on swatting her,
About the same time two big whales
apparently morn man eignty reel long
.rame up for air, or to view the water-
spouts, and created little rival spouts of
1 their own. The first cetacean to breach
( mspireu some oi me i iimiiss passengers
to suspect that It was the flerniati sub-
inaiino coming hero to deliver greet,
lugs to Uncle Ham. When the second
whale arose they decided otherwise,
PRESS
TRAINS OF WOUNDED
minrinrm tit tattat
CHEERED IN LONDON
Soldiers Bark From Frunce
Tell Thrillinjr Stories of
Bayonet Fighting.
"HURRICANE OF LEAD"
London, July 4 (12:40 A. M.) . Sev
eral special trains loaded with wounded
from the battlefield In France arrived
at tho three principal Ixndon stations
last evening. Great crowds assembled
at the approaches to the stations and
cheered the men, most of whom had
been wounded In the fighting on Sat-
! urday.
Some of the men were still so dazed
that they were unable to tell what day
It was, but mostly their condition wan
not very serious. It Is remarkabl how
few men were suffering from shell or
bullet wound". Most of them were vie
tims of the bayonet, testifying to tho
nanu to nnnu nature or me ngnting.
Tho soldiers had vivid stories of the
battle to relate. A Gordon Highlander '
declared that the famous regiment had
added a glorious new chapter at MammeU
to its history.
Hurricane of l.eiiil.
T-'hwl?.VrV the eroun";''. V'r I
Tl e swept oer the ground and ciir- '
rled the first line of battered trenches
without a single man falling. In the
nutsklrta of tho vlllai:e. however, thn
Jdermans had cone, iib d a number of ma- Mereaucourt i.i(N south of the Somnie. , i,liils mIiiIil
'chine guns, ;md a h.ur ane of lead was ,. . ,...,, . . i i..i piuuis ii k
poured Into those ,,, advance. Hut the ' l'w"' l eullleres and 1-rlM. ( ,,,-,,,
(ordolis never hesitated. They leaped i
Into the trenches, clearing line after line j
at the bayonet point. '
"Then they pushed Into the lllaise, al- ,
innucn 11 was suit neintr sneii.'ii v ar
''tlllery. As suon as they gained ,i font
1 l.nl.1 Ih. l..l'..,t..n nf l... .. ..u ..1
tered and a curtain of tire noured'on'to
.the ground behind, where the enemy sup-
ports were massing.
..t-.-n. t ,.111,.. -i. .....
and by, nightfall the Highlanders had se
cured possession."
".Machine guns played an linje I'tatit
part In tin. Oeimau defence agamit the
British attacks and also In the llritlsh
repulse of counter attacks when organiz
ing osltlons were taken. Until Herman
and Drltlsh have them In amazing num
bers. Mobile llnchlnr (inns.
"Durljig the bombardment before an
Infantry attack the (lermaiis remain In
dugouts so deep that they can tie crilihe.l
In only by a direct lilt with a 1.1 Inch
shell. Instantly the bombardment ceases
they rush out and man any lemalnli.g
machine guns, or even tiling up machine
guns fiom the dugouts. The ltrltlh c.irr
mobile machine guns forward and tho
motntnt a position is occupied they em
place them.
All reports from thoie engaged In the
fighting agree that barbed w Ire entnngl -menbi.
however stroig, have been in
variably well cut, and there Is unlvetsal
praise for the new mortar, the invention
of a (!o eminent civil engineer 111 llg.vpl,
; i,lch the llritlsh have manufactured in
large numbers.
, fre-iuently the deep (b-rrnan .lug-
I become tiiip., with the occupants either
surrendering or being blown up by
bombs thrown Into the entrance when
they refuse to surrender.
GOVERNOR IN WILD AUTO RIDE.
Wm In llHnpd's Cur, Whose
Chauffeur Is Missing.
Public Service Commissioner William
Hayward, who usually drives his own
car, tilled a chauffeur yesterday because
the car was new and because he was
taking ilov. Whitman for a ride. When
the car came buck to the St. Itet'le Hotel
Col. Hayward was d.lving It. Wind-
Klilel.1 mii.1 imi.lellfinw w ..r.. lipnuet, nml
bent, and the (lovernor looked as If
he expected almost anything to hap
pen. Heyond remarking that the chauf
feur had been dismissed without any
mention of two -weeks notice Col. Hay
ward had nothing to say.
Through the day the Governor held
I kA..u.,i ,...iii....i ......... i.i..
"' "',tH'" r-, ,iin.is
pun,,,.,, i,enK Iteiiubllcan Cmuitv (ivilr
man Samuel S. Koenlg, tleorge II l.vnn,
who handled Mr. Whitmans t.uberna-
W"'"
. .
. .-v-pri tad DTroTvr
AI Aail&lJ XUO, KUBLttiLi.
Hiwtov, July .1 - Wuopnid d.iinige
1 Congress ltetiieled tn Com pen ante
, . , ,
, Washiniiton, July 3. Kdward N.
Hurley, chairman of the Federal Trad"
1 1 nmnileslon, baa forwarded a lyttei to
Congress asking that (!, It. Itublee,
be reimlnitsed for Ills thirteen months
1 services.
C,.,.ll,n, 1?l'.t tf thn pn..un,l ul..t..,..
nrolilblts the nnvinent of salnrv to nnv
person appoiiiieM iiurmg n recess or the
Senate to fill a vacancy In any existing
(lice If the vacancy existed while the
Senate was In session. This was Mr.
uuuiet' s siatiiK. lie serven as a member
ui me e-umuns.siiin uinii .oaicii in, i;'i.i,
until Slay lfi, lOlti, when his noinina-
lion was rejecteu ny me .senate,
The salary e( a member of tho mni -
mission Is JlO.OOu a year.
CALLS UNION SEMINARY PAGAN.
The Hev. (I. W. Mcl'herson Sn
"Uevll Jlns Captured It,"
The Hev, q, W. Mcl'herson, sunerln-
tendent of Tent llvangrl, at West I2lth
nnd Manhattan streeds, preached a tlnnal Demnciatic League i.tlled nn Piee
sermon last night !n which he swilled blent Wilson this moiulug to intoim In n
the' Union Theological Seminary as the that It had collected campaign funds
most radical religious teaching centre In i amounting to ll.nnn tn aid in liU
America. The new theology, be said, as ' election, tin did not know that une !
taught there and In some other Inslltii-
i ti(,nH
Is based primarily em the "old
Pagan philosophy of evolution."
"As u result of the (lermanlzatlon of
our educational methods and phllnsophv
the devil has captured here nur Institu
tions of learning, as he has done In (ior-
, nlimy. No man who Is true to tho
, church and the Illble can hold his peace
when we see the religious wrecks that
mils nnd similar Institutions are making.
It Is clear that this Institution has
become an arch enemy of the evangelical
church of Christ, Let Its elonrs he closed
cr let It De turned into n nnspi nl to m il
ilatar to the world's needs,"
ALLIES ADVANCING
tit nniiiim nnn
IN SOMME DRIVE
A Group of Strategic Villages
Is Captured and Many
Prisoners Taken.
NEAR RAILROAD CENTRE
Paiiis, July 3 The third day of the
battle of the Soniinu dhows thut the
Franco-Hrltlsh lines have been futthei
advanced, with the French rlnht sweep
ing to tho eastward south of tho Homme.
A group of strategic villages, a large
number of German prisoners and heavy
guns have been (alien.
The French, advancing to the r,il of
the Mereaucourt wood, bine captured
the Chapltre. wood and the village "f
l'ellllleree
Ast-evllleti has tprcn taken by a I'n-nch
Infantry in.u;e ami to the smith of that
(il.ice the French have taken the eecouil
n,u. of German Intreticlimenls us far I
s tlc uutsktith nf Jlstui! mid have ad-
v, .,.,( beyond the eecond Geiinan line,
,.i,ere thev haw, rantured the villines
of lluscourt and Flaucourt. Thn total
advance at this fectlnn was (he kilo
meters. Tho advanced French lines aie imw
"ly "1""S f,'0m '"" ,n,",,,,,l,1 ,
Nav JlInc,(J11 r ivjunne, the defenee of
... , , ., .., ... i I,,.
nillCII ll.,r- !-,-,, KIL.tU.1 Iir.l01ll.il ....
the culture bv the French on Sunilav of
..... . -..
1 '" "e ''"
This was tho strongest fortltied posl
,.,, ()f ,1H ciermiin second line of de
feme on the entire front nf the attack,
but the Freiith division which look Fiiso
"ll".u.t"1 '." '"''" r"''1! '"1l'-'t.ll
' " 1 ,n,: 1 .V,
sl-t .-u-n un.ler tho pro.ee tl.in ol this
fen mlil il.l.- work.
Une of the tlereest stlllggle wan for
the Mime uuari, also Miniuly fnil'lied,
thie e-iiiarters of a tulle east tjf I'mlu
tl..-.. i... ;.,..,., -!.. , l .. ........ ,1... tl.i..
by a d. ..-r.ite eniinter attack, but tho
Flench African colonials, with one of
the most lelehcateil corps of the French
army, rushed the position with such
tlieiuy that tho (ierniaus broke hefoie.
the bayonet.
The French suceiiss at Frle also was
brilliant, as It straightened their line
i south of the elbow of the Soniine, thus
' ""u' eio-Mire.
Adwiliee uf Mt Miles.
' The French annouin'iment tn-d.u of
the capture of the village of ilerhccnurl
and the outskirts nf llMiecs and Asewl
l'is e-arrlin the advance about six miles
be mnl tlie point of ilepatture Sattirda)
I in- luipetuosii uf the Fu ndi .nivalin'
is shown in the taking of these village",
which wire strong.- toitllled with ha i bed
wire entanglements m ron the Mnets.
The stone houses weie transformed Into
batteries of machln. guns, and tho i utile
vin.tLfeM ut.. ..,it.a. i i a..,,- .
wink of bulled wire ctitangl. meats." Mill.
i t n oliserveis say that these villages
had :i ies. sting powi
ltl.lt of I l.imilimnnt.
compared with
Summing up the Fren.'h advance south
of the smine two main features ar.
dls-
closed: First, the occuitatlon for a length
' i-igni i, . enneieis ill nrsi line U. 'I 111. Ill
tleiiehes finm the fouiine tn the village
in I a.v, ami including live villages, sec
ond, a double line of lierman trenche
extending from llaracourt wesxls I.i .s-
reviiiers,
The siruggle continue with Intensltv.l
Observe is declare Uat the first tlllee'
lllllh HlllVlS., N U )l It.. IT,.., t lira.inl.'li.ll. .1 I
episodes In the Increasing ptessu're of'u "f 11 division frnlii their llrl lino
vast offensive, , trein hes up tile Sonillie the d'ermmi
I ulT'eial statement makes iueaun ref
BLOCKADE OF GREECE RAISED, erem.. t- the b.ittl l pio-.-ress.
, rrHt, Kr,. .,.r..',l ,,
' .... Ila
of MlOlene.
ni"'". .iin.v a llle lil.M'K.
ade of Cireeie. which was lutltue, nv
the niltelite Allies bef lle (treeie leldeil
to their doinind fur deiuobillzatliia and
other ch-inues In her pollcv, Ins !.,.
iitllclally raided
Itre.id riots on the Island of Mltvlev
were reported to-day.
CTflRAT WTTC unCTnw TDir-nn
! HITSBOSTON TRAFflC.
siilnvn- Tli'il rp .New r.liuliiiiil
I'otiMt H.i hy I i I ii
was done hy a seveie tliunder.diiriii and
,t ri,"i:il rain that swept the New ling
I1""'1 fr"' rttsinoiiih.
N. 11,1 He to-da v.
Utoii was the centre i.r the smut
In half an hour 1.3U inches of rain (ell,
one of the heaviest rainfalls on recu.d
liete. 'I lie water lit nnny of the stieeN
ran level with the i-nibsinnes and pouicit
I,,t.. tli.. 1 1 II il t.ceru i ,11 1 lul...u t. ....
tralllc during the busiest nart 'nf 'the i nh
nour. in tne i.tsi nosion liinne; the
nunnl ssteui was put out of minnus-
hl"li
Hundreds of linseinent were Hooded
Ilie pro marin signal system in in.,
i i"i iimxiiuij uisiiii-i was in ine useless
hy lightning, and a couttoller box on
i an electric car nil mo vv aipnlt-l oiest
, IHIIs line was struck, blocking tta
on
I that system
SUFFRAGIST REBUKES WILSON
I VI n rl lia Wii-lilnutnn's liriiiiilnleei
. Peppery nl White llonae,
W vsiiiniiton-. July 3 When ll
einlive committee of the Woman's
their number was In a peppei nmed
I Mrs Itank I, Mm un. a grindni'i"
I nf. Martha Washington, gave vent to h
illsapptuval uf the Presidents failuie 11
procure all llldnrseinent of the stall tp
rnnstltutlnnal amendment bv tho 1 leliln.
eratlc national convention
,,, , ....,,'. '
She Interrupted one uf the sp.-akci-.
who was expressing the good will of the
league towatd the I'icsldent In declare
thai women of the sulfrage St, re hell
I the President responsible for the attllu b
I of the Demnciatic convention nn suff-a je
I ind that If the President did not wntri
- out (.nnn.non suffrage voles would b
1 u-tflstorcd ugainat him In .Novcmbvi,
FRENCH SWEEP
ON; PERONNE IS
NOW MENACED
iniir 1 1 n in i un 1 1 . i i ii it-
eoni't. Ken Mores. Asscvil
li'ivs and Jiuscourt.
LA BOISSKLLK FALLS
INTO DK1TJSH HANDS
Olit'iations Aroiuiil Verdun
Arc Jfi'iiortcd to I?c
Slackening.
AI'STIIIAXS LAUXriT
ATTACK OX IM'SSIANS
Italians Increase Offensive
Slorm J'ositions in
Td.sina Valley.
I in Ifi- I'limmntiil of the ilushliii:
(ion. I'mii t tic 1'ri'inii inniw which
un- inuii'i'iitlim wllh tho 1 tilt lh In
tlio civiil iiiToiiiIri- In tlio Sniniiie
UIWP fli llllV.' I.ia.1.' lloltlhlC
Haill- III Mil' IIIIOI'UIIII OI I ITIIII1H1
out!
ol III'
n i t liuiHirtntit strntt'lcal
Hint fnuit. .Smrt'sslvely
pturiHl Ilt'iiift'iiurt, I'fiill-
lfi-t'N nml riaiii'iuii't nml further to
tin- oiith I'ri'iiiii Infantry toruled
mill iciMiiii'il AM'vUli'r. They fol-
lowed IliN Mliross It v ciil'i'vlng the
mtiiiiiI lint' nf (it'i'iumi inti'ivutiiuu'iiut
ii. fur :i tlio outskirts of K-trt'es.
Thfii 1'iiiiif tin' rn t u iv nf Hn-i'tiiirt
mnl I'lmirniii't.
Soiut'tliiiig hut tlirt'i' milt's was
tlllW BilllltHl. which, nil. led tn irt'Vlotl
Wins yhf tho Kit'inii troops it clear
MilMlllct' nf 111 milt M mill's ut tin
ftii'thcit point, to within tlit'tn tulle
of Pcroiuit'.
.Meanwhile tin- ItiitMi. movlug
""' lim ly but ov'it :i Iniigor front.
liuvi ciiptiirtil l.u ltosi.i., wiiero the
1 1 -rl it t ii ir fin' tlio lii-t two iluys 1ms
bi'i'M of tin lliTci'si clmiai'ii'i-. Tlio
Iril 1 ll lll l"'l"Tt "silitmitlul iroS-
rt'ss In viiinc pliict's" nml tlio it'luilL'
if lllllll.v llltlT llttMl'Us y Hit' (Ici-
inmis, I'.iitls-i tniiii, lmw t'M'r, have
lit'i'ii fni'i't'il buck from nino of the
positions which tlii'.v hint taken emiy
.Moinliiy iinniilii'- mnl It is evident
thut the (ieriumi m tlllery lire hits ho-
'"' """'I' l"''.tvler limn illllill
the
earlier singes of the buttle.
The prisoner,, taken bv the P.iitl-tl
""' Willie tile I It'lii ll
have diptm-ed S.000 or inure. Tilt'
vviir mntt'iiu! taken by the I'm-mcIi In-
clinics seven luitterles, three ol- large
t-iililii'e, many iiinrliliie gnus mnl
1 trench guns, Oilier batteries in rnse
i mates :isu r,. into the Ii;iihN uf the
j French.
Me.viilul iiilliiiltlui: Hie witliilni will
The Venlllll iiperatlnlls aii.lientl.V
an slackening, although at i-ertutii
no nts a heavv biiinbaiilineni 1. 1 . . I , -
eairleil mil, but tlie Infinite) aie rest-In.-.
The liii-iau War ( Hiiro reports (ho
i-.-llillire of ,,100 pi-lsni,,.!-. n the
various sectors of the eastern limit.
There Is heav.v lighting ut n.aii.v points
mi llle Hiissiaii front ninl Ilie Alls
tliails have npetietl a ioe-ill nll'en--Ive
suntli of I.lliewlin ami west uf
.u.k Ihe.v liiatigiir.-ilisl oilier aggros
she act ions, Inn, iii-ciirillng n Petri),
g'- i, weie i-i'iusei.
numsii hold nvi.K
OF Til Kill CAISS
In- Driven I'roin some Point;
W lileti 'l'he I a ,l lire, I, Mlelei,
l.o.Mni,s. ,1 i I p.' ' . "Sub-
si mi al pio.uss in s(). .,nts Is ie-
;.iii.d a t.n- litest n;i .nninunlc t-
.. usmd Hem 1 tr-Ui-H ibneini Head-
qtiat n-i-s I" I'liiiu-e The ileiuians sue.
i .ii :n ilnving some uf th,. llritlsh
ti.iu noni iosuti,.,h whiili they had
raniiiied In the moinin-:, but elsewhere
tne liet -n in attacks wi li renul.-ed
Di s - hlllg til" Illlrln.ll-llhS III Hie lilt-
' nniTil l.a Mnls-el.e .mil south ef
Tl em r llle St. lieu eill lb c l.it , s In,!
ip.it.uig on Un win.' . i.inu.u-d with
tie I. "si. win aie I milliard,, r; Thlep
i:n i i
H.'.n.i in; i" piMceeo tig a along
1,1-e I ie Vlli r.llll..ll IIIKI-lla II nil lieir
n , mis squill ,,i tin Ancie It. ..f when
I'm' bittle si!1: i.iges Jin. have cm
ti:i il I i I'" .' -lb-. le ir.nii ,,f widen
sum i-.. red a .1 am I ;h . ie nic,.,s:i.
I II' ..mind Hvlllem ,n d nmh uf .'..
nun . where t,ie n iv-e .iiishe I forward
I I I1 .III I jilMUIld
'' latiban t.il , 'i--f.li a
tin i'e , ':tg of the ofiMisr, un Mnnday,
'' '' undi . exti-em '. heav.v bom.
bai'i". i -pi from the lieiman gun. t'oe
i' I'Oiiden.s al Ihitish headuuarlers s.-iv
i. . .i... 11..1.1..1 . ..
I . .. "'. I'l'fii to n- Well e.
i i iiui-ued in iiie town, The
number of
fSennan prisnncis taken In the soutl,
so fai excemls I.Oiiu,
(Jen, I'ueli In ( 'mil inn ml,
Tli' llritlsh people leatned fui the
lb- i time in-nlRht that the famous
Flench ileneiiil. Foch who has won a
gnat repiiiatlon during the course of
igre;
the
; war, Is directing the operations boutli
