I R~
=ma smmsos )Nu coke
-* -i--dW-n a -m3t
NO. toe so.r toO.
WOONFLANS
W[ffDWAL OF
TROOPS, REPORT
President Said to Be Deter
mined on Gradual Evacu
ation-of Mexico.
WOULD AVOID WARFARE
President Realiz Continued
Presence of Soldiers Is Sure
to Stir Up Strife.
PreparatieNs are believed to be under
enmddeamio for a gradual withdrawal oi
the Amerian fere" from Meico. Rathet
than plunge 6e two countries into war.
the President. it is understood. Is pre
Pared to abandwm. as soc. as practical.
the or*inal purposes of the Pershing ex
pedition and leave to the foe. of Gen.
Carransa the duty of patrolling the ter
ritory mouth of the Rio Grande. Only an
attack by the Carranza foroes, it is un
derstood. would upset the program.
Technically speaking. there has bee.
no change of policy, and no orders te
Gen. Pershing to withdraw. Actually,
however, the retirement has begun. On
reliable authority it may be stated that
the main base of the punitive expedition
ts now located less than 100 miles south
of Columbus.
How long It will be kept there will be
determined by developments. Eventually,
however, it is the purpose completely te
evac"aM the country. There will be nc
change, as far as can now be ascer
tained, in the mobilization of the Na
tional Guard and Its dispatch to the
border. In. conjunction with the regular
army, it will be used in patrolling the
American side of the line, and will be
available for ume In Mexico should the
situation again grow critical and require
drastic steps.
Mileary CoUsiderationas.
Officials of the War Department Insist
that the retirement of Gen. Ptrshing,
who, a few weeks back, was established
at Namiquipa, Mi miles south of the
border, has been dictated purely and
simply by military_ consideratien. Wit
a DOg line of comm mmsnitos toguajd
and~ilth the native fodder supply com.
pletely ruined by a period of drouth, and
*ith Carranxistas concentrating at points
from which the line of communications
could be cut. Pershing, It was explained
found himself in a more or less precari
ous position.
Fit i with Ofiietal Plans.
Despit, the fact, however, that army
officers at the War Department asser1
that the recent shortening of the line
was not dictated by orders from the
White House or Stat4 Department, it is
understood to fit in with thA plan@ which
the administration has under considera
tion. It was recalled & official circles
yesterday afternoon that at the outse
It was announced by the President that
the force would be withdrawn an soon
as the Mexican troops were able to take
charge of the situation.
The first Inkling of the War Depart
mnent's Plans with respect to the ulti
mate disposition of Pershings forces was
disclosed yesterday, when, in announc
Ing a reorganization of the southern de
Vartment of the army, the press bureat
at the War Department issued a bulletir
"teting. among other things, that a new
department was to be created, to be
known as the Department of New Mexion
with Pershing at its head, and with head.
quarters at El Paso. Subsequently this
part of the bulletin was withdrawn with
the statement that this part of the or,
der would not go Immediately into effect
Ireland Expects
Birrell's Arrest
Former British Secretary May
Be Charged with Re
' volt Activity.
(y the .uNw. .es..e.,
New York. July &.-Augustine Birell
who resigned as chief secretary for I,,
land shortly after the outbreak of the
recent Irish revolt, and who, secording
to a London disfatch tonight, Is blamed
by the royal investigating cOmmnnt=mo
for the spread of the Stnn Fein move
meat, will be arrested and charged witt
being en' a----sory to sedition.
. This was the assertion naade tonighi
by a promninent Imri'oan hera
"I'h Blritish governmnent 'has, ot
osurse, known the findings of the roys
com"un before thle,". aid he, "and
the plan Is to prosecute and puaish Btra
rett hr 'neglectMng his ofIcieal dute
and undue leniency with the rebel,
whish praetioally maes hinm a aceae
sery te ens.. 2 is probable eve the
he will be asaeese et having 'aided and
.h.ee-- rebs..na..
D*a Nar heesed ?qnking.
that Ge.k Joha Pesng ---i-aag
teAmerisam aemn. Ia Mezises wiN
I es ---n.g he 2a m. i.. a he d.,. .
assummoee -.-'m of his new divi
den.a tbe al- Gere'A Dod, the
- emb uhrma. who'led the elnin
Ue & Forc toObserve
Ferth Belw Border
By GemoRo N. CLZMUNTs
("m News serwies.)
Headquarters, Punitive Expedi
tion in Mexico, July 3 (by wire
less to Columbus, N. Mex.-The
American national holiday will be
celebrated with appropriate cere
monies by the army in the feld,
though for obvious reasons the
firing of the national salute will
be omitted.'
This is the first time in many
years that the Fourth of July
will be celebrated in Mexico by
so many Americans, and the first
time in nearly seventy years that
it will be celebrated by an Ameri
can army of appreciable size on
Mexican soil.
QUIET REIGNS
ALONG BORDER
Military Leaders Look for An
other Long Period of
'Watchful Waiting.
OFFICIALS FEAR MEXICAN
PEOPLE MAY FORCE WAR
Only Danger of Conulict Ues in Cars
ranza's Inability to Control
the Masses.
(By the am News service.)
El Paso, Tex., July 3.--With much of
the State militia now on the Mexican
border ready to re-enforce Gen. Pershing
and his punitive expedition in Mexico.
or to cros at any other point that the
exigency may demand, the excitement
of the past two weeks began to cool today
and those who have been close observers
of Mexican affairs predicted another long
wait in the Mexican situation.
"'Carranza is not going to precipitate a
fight that will mean not only his un
doing, but the subjugation of the Mexican
nation, if he can help it, and the United
States' announced policy is not to start
anything." said a military official of high
rank here.
However, it is admitted that Carranna
may not be able to Wevent trouble, in
Albfuch as his lieutenants are not disci
plined and in face of the fact that the
Mexican leader who starts the fight will
be a hero in the sight of Mexicans.
No Raids Reported.
From all points along the border, so
far as reports had been received tonight,
there had been no repetition of the
Mexican raiding that has marked life on
the border for several weeks. The Ameri
can expedition under Capt. Leroy
Eltinge. which crossed the Mexican
border Sunday near Fort Hancock, had
returned without a tight, and Gen. Persh
ing's column was reported free from
molestation by the Carranzistas.
While the movements of militia are
being kept secret by officers in charge
of their placing, it is known that large
numbers have been moved into Colum
bus, the Pershing base, and that arrange
ments are being made to send them in
as fast as needed to protect the line of
communication or re-enforce the general
In .case of an attack.
D. C. WOMAN RECONCIED
TO HUSBAND THIRD, TIME
(By the Iaternational News Serviee.)
New York, June 3.-Mrs. Frances Duer
Jones Key Tilton, of Washington, ia
reconciled to her young husband, John
H. Tilton. Jr., again.
This is the third time since June 1. ac.
cording to news which reached her at
torneys. O'Brien, Malevinsky & Driscoll,
here today.
Mrs. Tilton, who is about 50, and her
husband, who is 22, are now living hap
pily together in her handsome home at
Chevy Chase.
Mrs. Tilton sued for an injunction in
the Supreme Court in June to restrain
her husband from disposing of a 225,000
mortgage. Her attorneys were notied
today to discontinue the action.
Auto Hit by Lightning.
Noblesville. Ind., July 3.-Samuel De.
Tuners automobile was struck by light
ning last night as the family was re.
turning home from Fort Benjamin Har
rison. The machine was running thirty
miles an hour when the accident occur
red. There were six persons in the car,
and all were stunned by the shock.
Bak Wrecker to Gain Freedom.
Madison, Wis., July 3.-Philip Allen,
who was sentenced to L.eavenworth eight
years ago for wrecking the First Na
tional Bank of Mineral Point, will be
riven his freedom July 26. He will be
allowed two yearzs of his sentence for
good beh~avior.
Border Trip for Pator.
Rev. Dr. John Van Schaick, pastor of
the Church or Our Father. just appoioted
a mwrnber of the Boa44 of Education, has
deeedto go to the Meican border with
. relief section of the American Rled
Crem, iat..d of taking a vacation.
Ohi Nilit a rta Censorship.
Coniuhan Ohio, July 4.-Buckeys cen
sors will olose dowa on Ohio troop move
msmts, Nkme of or=anisatnas and led
timiosa urn ba wthd This
Pershing Witha
Mexico Is Cal
Bluff" by C
Sf U. X. STANEDURY.
(ntses===smma News Servies.)
El Pass Tex., July 3.-The State De
partment at Washington was informed
today by Its representatives on the border
that Gen. Trevino had issued an Ofgcial
mnaniesto announcing a rapid withdrawal
of the Pershing expedition from Mexico.
The Mexican people are being told that
5600 men of the American force already
have returned to the United State,.
Posters have been distributed by Car
ransista agents throughout the territory
reently evacuated by Gen. Pershing
telling of the "Big bluir of the United
States government In "rushing troops to
the border."
"Politics In time for new elections in
the United States" Is one of the captions
on the printed matter.
The statement concerning withdrawal
Is in part true. No unit of Gen. Pershing's
forces has aatually returned to the United
States, but the entire command has con
centrated at Colonla Dublan. This is only
two days' march from the border.
Guardsmen Ea
Ride Today '
Three units of the District Nationals
Guard-the Field Hospital, the Signal
Corps Company, and the First Separate
Battalion-will leave for'isbee. Aris., this
evening at 6 o'clock. Every detail for.
the certain departure is arranged, much
of the baggage is on the cars now on
the siding at Rosslyn. Va., and the es
cort wagon and wire carts are blocked1
on the flat cars. Every man of the more:
than 500 who are going is eager to get
off, and glad that the next four nights!
will be spent In speeding to the border.:
Friends, relatives and sweethearts
thronged the camps of the three units
last night to bid good-bye to the men,
There Sill be many tearful leave-takings
tonight when the single train that will
c: rry all three units pulls out of thai
Response to Co
District F
The families of many me, of the
i District National Guard have been left
without food and without money to
pay rent by the call of their husbands
and sons to the colors.
This fact was revealed In startling
clearness when the temporary relief
committee met at the Willard yester
day afternoon to form a permanent
organization. Before the organization
was perfected. John Dolph, temporary
chairman, held before the men and
women present, representing more
than thirty of the biggest organiza
tions of the city, a stack of letters
from families of Guardsmen asking
aid.
Slme of the letters were pitiful In
tone, and inspired the representatives
MARYLAND REGIMENT
RUNS OFF TO BORDER
(By the Sun News Service.)
Baltimore, Md.. July 8.-Twenty-four
hours ahead of their orders and traveling
like major generals,- the doughboy. of
Maryland's First Regiment are on their
way to Eagle Pass and the border, prob
ably the only regiment in the history of
American that even ran away to war.
Technically, it appears, their departure
did not "gee" with the date set by Maj.
Gen. Leonard Wood for their going, but
the orders reached here shortly after
trains left Laurel.
The First Regiment wag waiting last
week at Camp Harrington for word to,
go, but the word was slow in coming, and
the boys from Frederick, and Hagers
town, and Salisbury,- and Elkton, and
Hyattsville. and the hall dozen other
towns from which the First draws
its strength of 1.110 men, ands fifty off
cers, chafed at the delay. Finally they
decided to light out for the border, under
the impression that the War Department
and the department staff had fixed things.
SHAVE FM 1IS0NER.
Alleged Ulganist Eseapes While
Deteetive Is at Barber's.
Pittsburgh, *a., July 3.-While Dete*
tive Frank E. Burke, of Brooklyn, N. Y.,
was having the stains of travel removed
in a barber shop tonight, his prisoner,
Charies -H. Crane, 32, who Is want'ed in
Brooklyn for bigsmy, and abandonment,
walked out of the barber shop and until
a late hour had not beeni recaptured.
Crane 'was arrested In Kansas City,
Mo:, several day ago According to De
tective Burke, when they arrived In town
Crane made a request to he allowed to
get shaved. Crane was lucky enough to
be "next," and he was through before
Burke,
Steamer Sank by "Sub."
London, July 3.-The British steamship
Mers has been sunk by a German sub
miurine. The MoeriS plied between Liver
pool and Manneta.s She was a vessel-of
2,in5 tens.
Ohio Xobilsd Tsday.
led "U.S.Big
eneral Trevinol
The w"b.Qawal memept alre4y ef
facted represento an iatndonment of all
the bendit-infested territory originally
occupied by Gen. Pershing between Casas
Grandes and Satevo. The distance over
which the troops have been withdrawn is
approxonately S miles. 'The distanes
between the border at Oplumbus and the
present main position eampied is about
100 miles.
It is authoritatively known that El
Valle was evacuated wtiin the last
thirty-ix hours. The troops at that point
have paled beak to QAealns as tA as
the positios have been evaekted by
AmetriaM Oe. Trewines aetam' have
movd L jluead of rnalung down
bandit&, the btw have besm invited by
first chief (snarm to join Trevinos
foroes and "help drive out the gringbee"
It i adaittd by Chrsnsa army omB
cIals that the bandit lIaders. including
"Pancho" Villa and him generals. Medina
vieta and Robles-have accepted the In
vitatlon.
rer to Begin
roward Border
iding at Roeslyn. just across the Aque
duct Bridge.
Motor trucks will haul tentage and re
maining baggage to the train, beginning
as early as I o'clock.
The First Separate Battalion has twelve
offioers and 316 men; the Field Hospital,
five offier@ and sixty-five men. and the
Signal Corps Company. three officers and
seventy-one rnen.
The troops will leave in one train of
twenty-tiree care-one standard sleeper
for the oficears, eleven tourist sleepers
for the men, seven fiat cars for the
wagon trains, and four freight cars for
the tentage and other impedimenta.
Cooking facilities are provided in some
of the cars, and ten days' rations will
CONTIMED ON PLG Two.
lors Leaves
miliies in Need
to hasten the completlon of the organ
ization in order that aid might be
given promptly. On ansther table
was a stack of 1.500 Cards filled out
by the Guardsmen at Camp Ordway.
telling the organization just how
many they have left dependent at
home.
Letters Will Have cEfect.
It is expected the stories of poverty
and want revealed in the letters to
Mr. Dolph will start contributions
pouring into the headquarters of the
organization, which will be established
temporarily In the rooms of the
Chamber of Commerce, Twelfth and F
streets northwest. this morning.
CONTfIIL ON rAGE TWO.
AUSTRIANS AT BAY
IN REGION OF LUTSK
(By the Own News service.)
London, July 3.-The region arouno
Lutsk, forty-five miles southeast of
Kovel. In Volhynia. was today the scene
of furious attacks and counter-attacks.
according to both German and Russian
statements. A determined effort was
made by the Austro-German army at this
point to break through the Runsan lines
and force the Russians back oro the
city.
The Russians state that during the
fighting about Zubilno and Zaturse, west
of Lutak. V prisoners and three machine
guns were captured.
In their efforts to drive back the
Russians hie, Austrian re-enforcement.
have been rushed from Kovel, Sokal,
and other cities -behind their lines.
Heavy fighting took place at a great
kumber of places along the eastern front
from Riga on the Baltic. to the foothills
of the Carpathiana
TURKS ROUT RUUSIANS.
Sultan's Forces Progrese In South
ern Persia. -
Constantinople, via London. July 3.
Further progress is being made by the
Turkish forces in Southern Persia and
Armenia, according to an official state
ment Issued today by the Turkish war
office.
In Southern Persia the Russian force
which has been advancing on Bagdad Is
retreating, and the Russian rear guards
are being constantly engaged by the
Turkish regulars and tribeemen.
Turkish troops in Armenia in an action
north of the Tchoruk River have drivei
the Russian army ive miles further to
wrards the coast of the Black Sea.
26#0O Gerlians Iterne~d.
London, July 3.-There are 36,000 G'er
man civilians interned in England and
4.,00 British civilians interned In G~er
many, It was announced in Conmnons to
day by Lord Robert Cecil, of th oeg
office. Sine December 6,716 Germans un
fit for military service have bean expat
riated ami. 354 British.
Cievrand. Ohio. July 3.--Wiaan Win
terbottom, 6, head of the Interstate
Drug Assooiation, was hUad t40p a
ehies Sanewan atdn
Alis' Gains Trii
Says Gwema Expert
BY WA;. aORA1t.
1itery ezput of the USeser aSUAt.
Berlin, July 3.-For us the los
of some places immediately behind
the first line Is of no great tacti
cal significance. The gain at the
beginning of the attack was only
very slight, for it was only an ad
vance of one or two kilometers.
English headquarters mnakes no
mention of French ,divisions
fighting on the right wing hav
ing advanced with great vigor
and bravery, but there also the
gain of ground is very slight.
Further, the English state that
the fury of the struggle con
tinually increases, and that the
Germans make counter-attacks
and offer stubborn resistance.
'Mis proves that the Germans
have reserves at hand and have
not allowed themselves to be
disturbed by the effect of the
allies' artillery.
SENATE GIVEN
BIG ARMY BILL
Measure Carrying $330,
598,000 Is Reported, the
Largest Ever Presented.
$148,25,ggS IS ADDED TO
BILL AS PASSED BY HOUSE
President Authorized. When War Is
Imminent, to Take Over Tram
portation Lines.
A bill carrying the enormous total of
$MW,5%,o00 for the support of the army
was reported to the Senate yesterday aft
ernoon. This Is the largest military sup
ply bill ever reported to Congress. The
Senate added U48,211.00 to the measure
as it passed the House.
The appropriations carried by this bill
will provide for the regular establishment
for the next fiscal year and for the Na
tional Guard on a basis of WON,000 men,
which is the expected total next year. for
six months.
There are several important matters
of new legislation in the bill. The roost
Important of these gives the President "in
time of war or when war Is imminent"
power to "take possession and assume
control of any system or systems of
transportation, or any part thereof and
utilize the same to the exclusion as far
as may be necessary of all traffic thereon
for the transfer or transportation of
troops, war material, or equipment. or
for such other purposes connected with
the emergency as may be desired."
Under similar conditions the Secretary
of War is authorized to secure the
services of such persons, whether in the
military service or not, as may seem
necessary to him for the efficient or
ganization of the Quartermaster Gen
erl's Department, the transportation of
troops, the gathering, movement, and dis
tribuUon of supplies, and the orderly
operation of all the functions of that de
partment. -
Important Increases.
The most important increases In appro
priations made by the Senate Committe,
are as follows:
Signal- Corps-House. $3,775,000; Senate
$i4,827,1LM
Pay of afflese of the line-House, $10,
000.000; Senate, 811,400.00D.
Longevity pay-House, $2,000,000; Sen
ate, $2,500,000.
Pay of officers of the National, Guard
House, $2225,000; Senate, 1.40000.
Pay of enlisted men of all grades
House, $7.,50,000; Senate, to include Na
tional Guard, $23.000,000.
New Item added by Senate-Pay fo
thirty civilian aviators, at $1,900 each
Ten per cent increase of officers fo
foreign service-House, $210,000; Senate
$2,000000.
Twenty per cent increase of enlistei
men in foreign service-House, $W00.000
Senate, including National Guard. $6,000.
000.
Subsistence of army-House, $13.000.0t
Senate, Including National Guard whet
drafted into Federal service, 27,377.000.
Regular supplies for Quartermaste
Corps-House, 38.700,00; Senate, to In
clude National Guard. $17,071,123.
Transportation of army-House. $12,000,
000; Senate, $38,441,;i04, IncludIng also Na
tionai Guard.
JUAREZ GARRISON *
HAS 700 MEXICANS
*(By the San News Service.)
El Paso, Tex., July 3.-It wah discov
ered tonIght that the "evacuated" Juare,
garrison of a week ago Is now garrisoned
by not only about 100 soldiers, but by
troops with six new modern cannon and
twelve machine guns.
Thd cannon and mnachinue guns have
been brought in'under cover of darkness
It is declred
The discovery was made known ofeci
ly today to the military headquartess
on this aide of the line.
While the garrison would be no comn
parison to the American force on this
side of the line. six cano and twelve
amadhine'guns could wrek eh bevus 3m
u'mas
FRENCH PUSH ON THREE
MILES THROUGH SECOND
GERMAN DEFENSE LINE
Force Under Gen. Foch Now Within Four
Miles of Peronne, Key Position of
Enemy Front for 100 Miles.
FIVE VILLAGES ARE CAPTURED
British Troops Aid Their French Allies in Big Offensive
Along the Some by Taking La Boiselle,
a Stubborn Teuton Stronghold.
f By the iternattena News serviee.)
London. July 3.-The third day of the powerful Franco-Btish
offensive on the Somme is a record of continued advances and strikdng
new successes.
The French army of Gen. Foch, operating south of the river, has broken
completely through the second German defense line for a distance of three
mileg, and tonight is witin four miles of Peronne. key position of the Ger
man front of 100 miles. and the objective of its drive.
During a night and day of continuous fighting the French have pushed
forward three miles, captured five villages and two foests, and increased
the number of prisoners taken to more than 8.000.
The British to the north have occupied the village of La Boiseile. made
further field gains. and brought their number of captives to 4.000. Tonight
they are fighting furioudy around Ovillers and north of Fricourt. While
not reporting such sensational gains as that of the French drive south of
Somme. they are, in the face of tremendous resistance, making some ad
vances.
20,000 GERMANS tIMLn AND WOUNDED.
The German losses to date are set at 20,000 killed and weemd-A and
more than 12.000 in prisoners. No estimate can be made of the Franca.
British casualties.
Berlin today reports the British are sufering terribly an their whole
front, from Gommecourt to where they join the French. Gen. Haig. in a
report from his headquarters in France, however, declares the Fagih ma..
are "less than expected."
The most desperate fighting of the day took place south of the Amm-=
on the front held by the French. North of the river. at the junctis of the
French northern wing and the British sotithern. there was a dJdded hiL
The allies spent the day in consolidating the ground gained. and d
Germans were con'tent to prepare against new attacks. No infantry asntim
were fought, but the allied batteries carried on a grueling pounding of the
opposing lines.
The arrival of heavy German re-enforcements was reported od
many already being thrown into battle. The tide of battle ebbed and ?owm
for the British today. but. summing up the situation. Gen. Haig tonight u
ports "substantial progress."
BRITISH TROOPS CAPTURE LA BOISELLE.
At sonic points thec Bruish were driven back by German counter
attacks during the day, and in la-ge measure the battle on this part of
the front has resolved itself into a series of actions for positions.
The most irnportant British gain was the capture of La Boiselle.
where a German garrison, although surrounded, had held out for three
days. They finally capitilated th;s aiternoon.
"The fight fiuctuated this afternoon about La Boiselle," says the official
report from British headquarters i France. "And also south of Thiepval,
the advantage of the w hole remaining wvli us. South of Thiepval hostile
counter-attacks drove soei of our troops trom a portion of the positions
they had captured in the early mornng. Elsewhere many hostile attacks
were repulsed w'ith hea Y lo -s. At sone places we continued to make
substantial progr(ss.
"The amour: of capt'::cd -rnamen: and 'warlike stores is considerable.
Accurate details are una%-1alh. The number of prisoners exceeds 4.3oo.
"On the rest of the front. cxcept for heavy hostile artillery fire at
certain points, t! cre \as ro incident of importance.
BRITISH LOSE FIFTEEN AEROPLANES.
"Yesterday there wsas markcd increase in the number of hostile aero
planes on the southern sect-s of the front, but in spite of this our air
men carried out in a gallant >anner all the duties assigned them.
"Today a hostile kite i;.loon was destroyed and fell in fiames. Since
the comumencenin: c4 the battie wc haxe lost fifteen machines on the
whole British front'
The positions capturrd b the Frcnch during the day include the
Mdereaucourt and Chapitre voods and the ilaees of lierbecourt, Feuilleres,
Assevillers, Buscourt and Flacourt. ()f these Herbecourt, three and a
half miles from Feronne, and! Aeville--u ic is de-ribed a, a power
fit center of the Gceriian (lefenshC orgprlation," are the rmost important.
Buscourt and Flacourt are at the apem: of the wedge wh:ch the French
have driven through the G;cro'n second line before Pcronne.
Seven batteries, among which were many heavy guns, together with
other batteries rot yet inventoricd, were left behind by Germans in their
retreat. The Fi ench also have captured a number of machine guns and
militarv stores.
Great aerial activity, with h-avy losses on both sides, continues over
the front of the attack. Besides the fifteen British machines destroyed,
the Germans have lost sixteen capt- e balloon- and a number of aero
planes, while th: French have suffered 'ome losses.
LEG GRAlFFED TO THIGH; GIRL LEAPS TO DEATH
MEN JOINED FOR WEEK WHILE MOTHER WAITS
(By the laternatiea News Seie.) (By the Sun News servis.)
Paris. July 3.-The ruost remarkable of Chicago. July 3.-Vima Jounme maha6
alt operations for wounds sustained in Ison, daughter of Mrsa. LUbbi. A. rtare-.
the war wasn peformed recently at the Ison. a former wealIthy resideat ot Ream.
Gran Paatsin ari byPro. Luret. on. Tex., leaped to her death tow fiosa
Graf Pausss UniPerstyPo.Luet the fifth floor in the rotuanda eh
of rusel UrivratY.Federal Building. fbs was toamt
Corporal Rloinelet had lost part of his u.
thigh bone by a shot. Amputation had Less than fifty feet friwa s geht
been decided upon whens Private Tilltte! where the young woman took her btml
was brought to the hospital and hi le leap her aged mother steed and gftt
ege. -- notified by guards of the bem that
Dr. Laurent grafted the bony aoahoot tuer dgflghter had onummitted sndie, Ah
of Tilliettes stump onsto Roumelet's thtgh knsew nothing of It.
borne, the two soldiers remaining lUnked What was the came of the p ..
together for' a wesk like the esamsese waoman's set probably never wili ha4o -
twins. In the presence of the minister ifinitely known. She was to have hem
of health. 3t. Codar. Pef. Iaureett stp- married to a wealthy ym s-5i
aratsd the o. Rocussiet' tM bone New Orleans, in June. asshia t,
~Q - ~S he Mth-,
