yypv*Hyv3gg| !"*? t - > r- *j- ? ?? *; vvj.wjr^'v*^ ?.' *>
" ? *? -.
. _ " ? ??? ? . . ' .-'.'
~T
'
"Mr. JiSSs"
fThelrreprcssiblc Jiggs, Has His
Troubles This Morning
fUdjtncmil Cimcspisimtcli
Fox's Comics
In The Timcs-Dispalch, Amuse
Young and Old Every Day
66th YEAR
VOLVMK n?
M .Mil mi IS.'.
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
FRENCH CAPTURE
?GROUP OF VILLAGES
TOWARD PERONNE
Now Within Three Miles of
Important Strategical
? Point.
REPRESENTS ADVANCE
OF ABOUT SIX MILES
British, Moving More Slowly
Over Longer Front, Take
La Boiselle.
AKltlAIi ACTIVITY IN< KF.ASI NCi
Wnlun Operation* Slarkeiiinu, AI
tlifiuuli Heavy llomharrimcMit Is
Ileum farriwl Oui.
I"i. command nf the dashing < jen
**ral Koch, the Frcnch troops, which
<r? co-operating i??? t li ?- British ni
the croal offensive in the Somme Itiver
region have made notable gains in the
? liter!' ? of I'??roiin?", ?>i|e of ?)i?? most
' .-iratojjica 1 points along that
trout. Successlvely, tliry liiivt! cap*
tured Herbeeourt, K?-uil!< r? s and Fleu
' o'trt. ami further to the pouth. French
infantry stormed an.) <>< ? upie.I
vlllorc, Tlicy fnllowoil this success by
carrying the s-eo: <l In,.- .,i German
IntrenchmentM as far as tlx- outskirts
Of Khtrecs Thru cuilit tin Capture of
H'lM'ourt aii*l Kh ycouri
Something inoif than three miles
/an thus gained. which, added to pr<*
ions gains, gives the Fr?m !i troops a
' l"?r jnlViiiiii' of alioui six mill's at tin
f.n r poili t, to w : t ii: li t|ir?. n..les
??{ I'eronne
I HillTIMi AT I. \ ISO) ?l-'.l,|,|-;
OF limit KM' ? II A It A < "I'll It
Meanwhile Iho Hritl.-h, moving more
siowiy. lnii over a longer I rout, have
taptured l-i liois"ll?-, where the fight
Wig for the* last two days: has been of
Dm fiirccM character The British
also report "s ii list.nit ial progress in
'Oinc places and th' repulse of many
? ounterat tacks hy the i Jermans. British
troops, however, have \ n for? ed hack
'?'r??iu some of the positions taken early
Monday morning, and it is evident that
tin- (Jonnan artillery lire has become
much heavier than during the earlier
Stages of the hat tie.
Tiie prisoners taken ).%? the British
so far number t,.1en while the French
have captured >,000 or more The war
material taken by th? 1-rench include
seven batteries, three of lai^e caliber,
many machine guns and ttench guns
other batteries in casemates also fell
into the hands of the French.
Heyond admit t iiil: the withdrawal of
-.300 prisoners in tv.ni'Mi sectors.
? ?II the somnie. t;,. Ccrman official
statement makes .iu.t r? f? r? t..-? to
i In battle jui-a m progress
T ll e Vrnlllli operations a|>parcntly
'are slack nun c, although ,'t certain
points a lie;. V i ? ? II ? 11> ?? II t is belli;;
? arricd fnit, but 111 ? infantry rest
I rip.
iii m>mi:ijs ??i? ta\i iii\i;>
I \ \ Kill ?. I, AITI \ I'l l
Aerial activity is increasing. hun
.Ireds: '<f machines being engaged in
i econnoitcring. directing the puns and
lighting. Ill tile three da v s' engage
ments. t (ie British ha\e lost three ma
chines.
The Russians repe?rt the capture ot
0 prisoners in the various e-sctors.
There is heavy flghtlnr at many points
on the Russian front, and the Aus
II tans have e>pened a powerful offen
<-i\e south rjf Binewku. and west of
l.utsk they inaugurated other aggref
sive actions, but, according to I'etro
gra<1. were repulsed.
The Italian offensive continues with
out cessation, both artillery and in
fantry being employed hi strong force
against the Austrians.
I'll A \rO-nitITISH l.l\KS
Alti: |'| ll'I'IIKlt ADVAMfKI)
I'AKIS, July ?The third day of the
battle of the Somme shows that the*
Franco-British lines have been further
advanced, with the French right sweep
ing to the eastward south of the
Somme. A group of strategic villages,
:i large number of German prisoners
and heavy guns have been taken.
The advanced French llres now are
only three miles from the Important
railway junction of Peronne. the de
fense of which has been greatly weak
ened by the capture by the French on
Sunday of Mereaucourt wood, south of
t!ie Somme, and between Feuilleres and
Frise. This was the strongest fortified
position of the German second line of
defense on tho entire front of the
attack, but the French division which
took Frise continued to advance with
;uch impetus that the Germans were
unable to resist, oven under the protec
tion of this formidden work.
One of the fiercest struggles was for
t'.ie stone quarry, also strongly fortified.
M.ree-quarters of a mile east of Curlu.
Here the Germans tried to stem the
die by a desperate counterattack, but
the French-American Colonials, one of
tiie most celebrated corps of the French
'army, 'rushed the position with such
energy that the Germans broke be
fore the bayonet.
The French success at Frlse also was
brilliant, as It .str.'iightened their line
south of the elbow of the .Somme, thus
avoiding exposure to crossfire. Tho
French announcement to-day of the
capture of the village of Kerecourt and
the outskirts of ICstree and Assevillers
carried the advance about* six miles be
vond the point of departure on Satur
day. '
The impetuosity of I he French ad
vance Is shown in the taking of these
villages, which were strongly fortified
with barbed-wire entanglements across
the streets. Tho stone houses were
transformed into batteries of barbed
wire entanglements. Military ob
(C'ontinuod ou~Thlrd Page.)
RECRUITS NEEDED
10 FILL DP RANKS
Richmond Troops at Camp Stuart
Still Below Number Required
by Regulations.
BIG PARADE IS CALLED OFF
Orders to Move to Brownsville
Are Expected at Any
Minute.
Parade Is Called Off
Following receipt of Irlrcrnom
from Major-Cicncml l.ronnril Wood
In * J iilulil Indicating Unit urilrrii
h rrr nlinut to lie Ixminl for I lie
movcineiit of (lie Virginia Infantry
to llrmviiMt lilt*. Texii*. the proposed
Fourth of July piirinlc planned for
till* afternoon mii olllcliilly can
celed.
With thi- I'll and Scnonil Regiments
ready for departure and the field
artillery and the Signal Corps waiting
to recruit tij? to peace strength, Camp
Henry Stuart yesterday was the
scene of final drilling nn<) exhortation
b> the commanding officers. The two
regiments are ready to move when the
'word comes, and it is expected that the
1 First Regiment will entrain over the
Seaboard Air l.inc to-niorruw morning.
V. ith the First H'Timptil will travel
the Field Hospital Corps. t
Tlie Second Regiment, it is expected,
will be moved <>ti Thursday mortiiti^
o\?-r the Southern Hallway. The field
artillery, following, will be moved over
the Norfolk anil Western, which has
??."!!? lying in readiness in the yards in
Petersburg The Signal Corps?, if its
complement is finished, will Journey to
tin; border land with the First Regi
ment. It was said yesterday at camp
headquarters that everything was in
readiness for movement towards the
Rio Grande. There is jio doubt in the
minds of any of the olficcr.s that the
irginla troops will be sent forward.
i'\it\i>i: is ? \ i. i. i: i > off. as
INSTANT OI(I)i:itS AUK 10A*I'Ct Ti;i?
Telegraphic instructions received in
I he Ad Jut ant-General's (.flict: last night
from Major-Genera 1 Leonard Wood, of
the I ?? partment of t li o Last, brought
the Information that orders to move
would he forwarded at any moment.
For I his reason the parade of all the
troops now in P.imp Henry C. Stuart
which was in have been held to-day'
was peremptorily called off. The >
pa ratio was to have been held in order i
to increase recruiting in Richmond,
stalf and local company officers liav
j ing complained that Richmond is not
furnishing Us quota of men for tiie
front. Governor Stuart, uliu will be
'?'it of town, bad given his approval to
til. scheme, and the parade would have
? been the cri-ati-t of the sort ever to
have been attempted In Richmond.
\s II is. however, staff i.flicer and en
listed man are on the <|ui vive for
moving orders. and It was feared that
'such Instructions might be received
while fi>.e troops were on parade. The
?amp is now in a state of watchful
wait Inc. of hesitant expectancy. Wagon
* ra nsp'jrt a t lo n has been laid on tint
cars. Troop trains are In the yards.
?The railroad companies are awaiting
orders, and they are ready. It remains
now only for en era I Wood to issue
the command, and within the hour the
, I'irst Regiment will tie entrained and
on its way to the ljnwhich Mexican
bandits have dared so frequently to.
! cross
VI It (? I XI \ TROOPS
WII.I. fill TO nilOW.VSVlM.K
i All the Virginia troops, it is stated,
will go to Brownsville, where prepara
! tion for their coming has long been
under way. They will carry tents and
equipment with then- Ordnance will
be delivered when thev reach the
border.
Recruit incr in Richmond, where so
much had been expected, has been on
the wane, and Richmond organizations
are in woful want of men.
If Richmond does not perform its
part, it was stated yesterday, recruit
ing offices will be opened In every small
town in Virginia, so that the State may
not lack In the quota it has been called
upon to furnish the Federal govern
' merit.
, does not perform its part, it was stated
yesterday, recruiting offices will be
opened In every small town in Vir
ginia. so that the State may not lack
in the quota it has been called upon
to furnish the Federal government.
Companies A, B, C and F. of the
Richmond Grays, the First Battalion
of the First Regiment. Major John
Fulmer Rright commanding, are still
In need of men. Recruiting ofilces arc
? open in the concentration camp, and
(those offering for enlistment will bo
i gladly welcomed.
SIONAI, TORI'S AND
HOWIT/.KRS XEEI) .WORK MEN
The Signal Corps needs five men.
| Battery A?the Richmond Howitzers?
of the First Battalion, Virginia Field
j Artillery, lacks men. As soon as these
commands come up to the minimum
strength they will be mustered in.
Lieutenant - Colonel Delaware Sker
rett, of the inspector-general's staff of
the Department of the Fast, will he
relieved to-day, it. was learned, and
Lieutenant-Colonel ,T. L. Chamberlaync
will he stationed here. Colonel Skerrett I
was relieved at the request of local
military authorities, who, it was said, |
had become incensed at the censorious
and arbitrary attitude of the army |
officer.
It was learned yesterday from an
authoritative source that friction be
tween Colonel Skerrott and officers of
the Virginia militia was not due to
criticism by Colonel Skerrett of the
(Continued on Second Rage.)
MONTHS OF ACTIVE SERVICE
AWAIT GUARDSMEN ON BORDER
IBS. HETTY GREEN DEAD
IT ICE OF EIGHTY YEARS
Regarded as World's Richest Wo
man and Most Remarkable
Mi*tress of Finance.
LF.AVKS CI.OSK TO $100,000,000
Lived Almost as frugally as Shop
girl?Was Horn Rich and In
herited Proud Family Traditions.
Many Stories ??f Her Frugality.
NISW V< ? KK. July s.?Mrs Hetty
? Green, said to be tIio wealthiest j
woman in the worhl. died at her home,
here this morninu ;<t S:OS o'clock.
She had suffered three strokes of
paralysis ?luring the past two months,
:iikI for several wcks had lieon prac
tically helpless. Hh?* was eighty
years old. Her death occurred .'it the
h' mi* of It? r son, Colonel Kdward 11.
H i ireon, West Ninetieth Street,
adjoining 11? e plain bri?-k. four-story;
house at N< 7. on the corner of Con
tra! Park. West, where Mrs. Green hat!
lived lately in seclusion. except for
her son a: '1 feveral .Japanese servants
and trained nurses. Kor several
weeks past Mr.- ' ? ree had been un
able to walk, and had spent practically
all of her time in a wheel chair. The
nurses occ.islor.ali\ lifted here into her
automobile, where, propped up by pil
lows and protected by furs the mis
tress of finance enjoyed a few aftor
I noons in the park. Most of the time,
however, she ss.it in the wheel chair
at one of the front windows on the
parlor floor of her house and gazed out
j over the p.irk. motionless for hours at.
? a time.
' Her son. Colonel firowi, and her
daughter, Mrs. Matthews Astor Wilks,
j who were the only children, hail been
with her much of the time, and it was
j recently reported that Mrs. Groen had
turned over all of her financial affairs
j to her son's charge.
Both were :.t their mother's bedside
! when she 1. N<?t withstanding that
she had suffered paralytic strokes, the
most serious of which occurred a week
i ago last Thursday, the end was rather
! sudden, for yesterday Mrs. Green
: seemed in better spirits than for some
I time, and she instructed her secretary
; to tell inquiring friends that she was
j "feeling extremely -veil."
| Last night, however, a grave relapse
! occurred, and Colonel Green summoned
j the family physician. Dr. Painter. Dur
; ing the nisiht Mrs. Green became tin
I conscious at intervals ind the end
' came during one of these periods.
' Mrs. Green's body will be taken to
? morrow to Bellows Falls. Vermont.
] where she lived tor many years. Fun
ier.il services will be held there at 11:3ft
i o'clock on Wednesday morning in the
' Church of the Immanuel, Rev. Arthur
C. Wilson, pastor, officiating. Mrs.
; Green's son and daughter will accom
I pany the body.
The death of Mrs. Green will release
for distribution among a large number
of people scattered all over the United
States and abroad a trust fund said to
amount to about $1,500,000.
ltnsmUAltY 10STATK OK At'.N'T
TO HIO DISTIt IIICTKI)
This is thj resldnar - estate of her
aunt. Sylvia Ann Rowland, bequeathed
for Hetty Green's life use, and after
her death to be divided among the
lineal descendants of Mrs. (jteen's
grea'.-grandfather, Gideon llowland, of
Dartmouth, M?.ss.
Gideon Rowland was born in 1734
and died in lS2.r?, and inasmuch as
descendants cf eleven of his children
| are living, some in the sixth gonera
| Hon, thoy probably constitute a small
j army. ' Sonu of the heirs inter-mar
I ried and their children will inherit
doubly, thus adding to the difficulty to
be encountered by 'ho trustees in de
termining the complete list of those
entitled to he money. Among the
HowlantT descendants was Sylvia Grin
(Continued l>n TsicvcTuTT Paso.)
FOCH DIRECTS FIGHTING
SOUTH OF SOME RIVED
.
Presence of Famous French tiencral
(Jives Increased Confidence
in Result.
BRITISH MAINTAIN POSITIONS
Capture La liuiselle unci Arc Hattling
Successfully Around (Killers and
North of Frlcourt?Little Influ
ence on Simple at Verdun.
I.QNDON, .lulv ? To-day's news is,
again a tale of tin- continued progressj
of the Anglo-French offensive. Heavy j
lighting is proceeding all alone tlie lino. |
Tho British main tain a II their positions
south of the Anero River. w here the
battle still rages. They have captured
I.a Hois. lie. the garrison of which they
surrounded. and are lighting success
fully around uvlllers ami north of Fri
t'OH I t.
The British people learned fur the
lirst time to-night that the famous
From h general, Foch, who lias won a
great reputation during the course of
the war, is directing the operations
south of the S'oiutne River. This has
given increased confidence iu the result
of tho allied offensive.
The French ha\c captured Herbe
cotirt and AssaviUers and made other
substantial gains, taking additional
prisoners and heavy suns. Thev are'
thus making great progress in the di
rection of the important Go'man junc
tion of Peronne. which is only a little.
| over three miles distant from their
advance at Herhecoui t.
The noncommittal char.vier of the
j German oflieia 1 'sta temont issued to-day
is considered in I.ondnn as a virtual
| eonflrtnHtion of the success of the
| Anglo-French operations. The Ger
mans admit that the division of their
forces abutting both banks of the
Homme, which was partly withdrawn
Saturday, now has been brought hack
to the second line. No data is yet
forthcoming from either side as to
. casualties suffered.
According to the German communica
tion. the Anglo-French losses were "ex
traordinarily heavy." Unofficial Brit
ish reports, however, say th>- British
casualties were less than had been ex
pected.
All reports emphasize the tremendous
nature of the action. The gunners
worked so incessantly as almost to
fall asleep at their guns, and when j
there was a slight recess in the tiring
they slept easily amid 'he thunders of:
, t he ba 11 le.
Great importance is attached to a
I newly invented mortar, which plays
havoc in I he German trenches. Aircraft j
j are taking an impor-tant role in the |
j operations.
Thus far the new offensive appears
to have had little influence on the bat
tle around Verdun. The Germans are
still showing undiminished vigor in
i the Meuse region, and the French are
j as steadily resisting.
j WANTS TROOPS WITHDRAWN
National K.\eoiitive Committee of So
clallht-I.nbor I'nrty Sends I'rn
le*t to AVIImoh.
XKW YORK. July ,1.?A protest de
? manding that all American troops he
; withdrawn from Mexico was sent to
| President Wilson to-day by the.
i National Executive Committee of the
! Socialist-Labor party. The protest
was framed yesterday at tho semi
annual meeting of the. party, at which
an antimilitarist movement was
launched.
Governor Viiger Arrive*.
NRW YORK, July 3.?Arthur Yager,
Governor of Porto Rloo, was among tho
passengers who reached New York to
day from San Juan aboard the steam
ship Brazoo. Mr. Yager Is In tho United
?States on ofllclal business.
'-- ^jrj*LL-r., 7 Ci?>X*>?>vc?xo?>vr>r^W?^^,. I
,t , . -. - ? i
* .Just as the travelers in "prairie schooners" did in '?!)> and other years
of that time when the Western frontier was anything hut a safe place for
a white man, the soldiers of I'ncle. Sain in Mexico take no chances on a
surprise attack that might mean their death and the destruction of their
supplies they are taking from the border to General Pershing's base in the
interior. The photograph shows the automobile trucks that traverse the
desert from Columbus, X. >1., to Xamiquipa, after having been arranged in
hollow square formation, so that in ilie event of an attack the soldiers
. Aave a substantial protection from which to meet the enemy.
MOVEMENT OF TROOPS
TO BORDER CONTINUES;
Virginia Regiment Ordered to En- j
train, Says Department of Kast
Headquarters Report.
OO.OOO A I,KKAI)V MOBILIZED]
Approximately Half of This Number I
Kither on Southern Frontier or on ]
Way There?To Be Grouped Ac- j
cording to Geographical Locations. [
NKW YURK, July 3.?A Virginia
regiment. of infantry, another from;
Buffalo and a third from tins city have
'icon ordered to entrain for the border t
to-morrow, and it was announced to- j
night that approximately 30,000 na- !
tional guardsmen of the Department of j
the Kast either will he on the Mexican i
border or on the way there on lnde- I
pendenen Day.
Reports from the twenty-two States;
comprising the department showed that
CO.000 troops had been mobilized in all '
of the States, exclusive of Kentucky.
Among the. troop movements reported'
to-day were the departure of a brigade
from Pennsylvania, a regiment of In- j
fantry from Maryland, Battery B. First
Field Artillery, and Ambulance and
Hospital Corps from New York City.
Within the next forty-eight hours,,
it was announced at divisional head-j
quarters', the Second Infantry of Troy |
and the Twenty-seond Engineers of j
New York City, at Camp Whitman, the ?
Second Field Artillery, Squadron A, and ;
the remaining troops of the First Cav- j
airy, at Van Cortlamlt I'ark, will be ;
ordered to tlie border.
The troops from the Department of'
the Fast will be divided into six di- j
visions on the border, it was learned'
at headquarters; New York and Penn
sylvania troops will form divisions by
themselves, while the other Slates will
be grouped according to their geog
raphical locations.
It was stated at the oflice of Adju
tant-General Sale at midnight that
orders for moving the First Virginia!
Regiment hail not been received, but ]
were hourly expected, and that all j
preparations for immediate entralnment
had been made.
ANOTHER MARINE KILLED
Fntnl Climli AVIlli rtevolutlonint Ilnndn
Occur* at Santo DiimlnRiin
Village.
WASHINGTON", July ,'t.?Two en
counters near Santiago, Santo Domingo,
July I between American marines and
revolutionist hands, In which one ma
rine, Private Mills, of the Thirty-first
Company, was killed and three wound
ed, were reported to the Navy Depart
ment to-day by Rear-Admiral Caperton.
Private Mills was killed in a tight
between marines commanded by Col
onel Pendleton and 100 revolutionists
at a village named Oldcaminoreal, '
while the Americans were advancing!
upon Santiago from Monte Phristi.
A marine detachment advancing from j
another point clashed with a group of j
revolutionists twenty-five miles from!
Santiago. Lieutenant D. B. Boben and i
Trumpeter Julian Goldsmith were j
slightly wounded, and First Sergeant
Fernando Barrier was seriously
wounde.d in the. leg At Monte Chrlstl
last week a marine was killed and
several wounded.
' DECLINE IN*LYNCHING3
For Flr?t SI* Months Itecord In 25,
ARiiliiMt :t t for Snme Period
I .it n t Year.
MONTGOMERY. ALA., July 3?Ac
cording to the record kept by the divi
sion of records and research of the
Tuskegee Institute, there have been!
during the first six months of the year '
twenty-five lynchings. This Is nine
loss than during the same period last
year. Of those lynched, twenty-three
were negroes and two whites. In the
first six months of 1915 there were
twenty-four negroes and ten whites
lynched.
Five, or one-tlfth, of those put to
death were charged with assault.
Other causes of lynchings were: slap
ping a boy, brushing against a girl
on the street, insult, attempting - to
assist son accused of murder to es
cape, robbing stores, killing olficers of
law and murder.
FUNSION AWAITS ORDERS
GIVING HIM SOME RELIEF
Bell Kvpceted to Take Over El Paso
Base and Everything West
of There at Ouce.
RUMORS OF WITHDRAWAL
Pershing Concentrates His Main
Body in Such Manner as to With
stand Any Attack Mexican Army
Might Make.
SAN ANTONIO, TEN.. July Major
?Sonera 1 Funston, who has had com
mand of tho entire border army, was'
to-night awaiting orders from the "War
Depart men t to turn over the direction
of tho El Paso base and everything?
west of there, although late advices
from Washington indicated that he
would continue to have, charge of
everything to tho Arizona State line
for the present.
Unofficially, he had been advised
early in the day that the recommenda
tions lie made several days ago that
the border army be. placed under the
command of three major-generals had
been acted on by tho Secretary of War.
It was expected that Major-Generul
?f. Franklin Hell, commanding the
Western Department, would take over
the western end of the line without
delay, but General Pershing's assurnp-1
tion of the New Mexico Department, the
El Paso base, would be delayed pend
ing t he working out of "minor de
tails."
ItI M?>[{r:n THAT KXI'KDITIO\
IS TO UK WITIlDltAWX
The announcement from Washington
that enteral Pershing would not un
dertake the direction of his command
immediately was accompanied by a
rumor, difficult to trace, that the puni
tive expedition he now commands in
Chihuahua was to be withdrawn
No intimation that the administration
had determined to withdraw the puni
tive force had been received at army
headquarters here, nor was much cred
ence given the report.
General Pershing has withdrawn the
southernmost part of his force, and has
concentrated his main body in such
manner as to withstand any attack the
Mexican army might make. His most
southern station to-day was at El Yalle,
about thirty miles north of Namiqtiipa.
His headquarters remained at Colonia
Dublan Two unnamed main points of
concentration, in easy reach of each
other, have been established In such
way that General Pershing could re
enforce quickly any point menaced or
attacked. Should it be decided, how
ever. to withdraw the force, it could be:
removed without great confusion or!
loss of time. The retreat would be de
layed somewhat by tho necessity of
loading and moving the l?lg lot of
supplies that have gone forward
steadily for many weeks. General Fun
ston and his staff have planned the dis
position of the national guardsmen, so,
with the ?lO.-'vftrt regular troops already
facing the international line, the whole
force could be used for invasion, if
called upon.
MOHIU/.ATIOV ItA 1*11)1.Y
NKAItlNt; rOMI'I.ETWV
Trains bearing guardsmen and sup-1
plies moved steadily towards desig
nated stations to-day, and indications,
were that by the end of the week the
mobilization would be almost com
pleted.
General Eunston's suggestion that his
command be divided was explained by
the statement that it had grown too big 1
for one man to direct in detail, but i
there was no disposition to deny that
it was in line with the plan of pre
paredness for eventualities in the Mexi
can situation. In the event of war,
major-generals would be placed in ion:
rnanil of all tielil armies, and it is un
derstood that the naming of the three
division commanders to-day was indi
cative of the commands that would be
used if general field operations arc un
dertaken. .
.? ?!?
For Federal Court at Anhcvllle.
WASHINGTON, July 3.?The Senate
Judiciary Committee to-day reported
favorably a. bill providing for a ses
sion of the Federal Circuit Court of
Appeals at Ashevillc.
MOTM ntKOKt: ItOOF TO-NM.II r.
Uinn?:r-aut>lier. music, (lancing. 6:30 to IS.
?Auv. J
WAR DEPARTMENT
PERFECTS CHANGE
IN PATROL PLANS
Boundary Line Divided Into
Three Military De
partments..
FUNSTON, PERSHING
AND BELL IN CHARGE
Senior Major - General to Be
Chosen to Have Supreme
Command Over All.
REAT>Y l'OR KONC. CAMPAIGN
Washington Without A<lvices as to
When Ciirritn/ii's Reply
Is Expected.
More Men Who Were
in Carrizal Fight Alive
JIKXlt'O t'lTV, July It.?tienerat
Trovlno reported to-nlnht to the
Wnr Department flint n number of
ivotiadeil Amor Icon Noldlcrn, ulio lie
loo^ril to detachments riiKnced in
tlie flght nt Cnrrl7.nl, luivc been
foiiml In different parts of ttie State
of riilliunliuii. He ntiited that they
?orc licinp returned to the Ameri
can .tide n* hooii 11.1 eneonutered.
WASHINGTON, July 3.?While tho
diplomatic aspects of tho Mexican dim
cuity till owed no chaugc to-day. War
Department measures for a new dis
tribution of tho border patrol clearly
indicated that months of active service
along the frontier await tho thousands
of national guardsmen gathering the.o
from all parts of the country. Only
the. appointment of a general officer to
supreme command is lacking now to
com pie to adequate administrative ma
chinery not only for border operations,
but for a campaign of any desired pro
portions in Mexico should general hos
tilities come.
Under the new plan, tho l.SOO-milo
frontier will he divided so that tho
Southern and Western Military De
partments will take care of tho eastern
and western extremities of the line,
respectively. General Funston. relieved
of responsibility of the ontiro border.
i Ills own recommendation, will con
tinue. in command of the Southern De
pnrtment, while Major Franklin iiell,
commanding tho Western Department,
ivill transfer his headquarters from
San Francisco to Douglas. Ariz., to bo
in direct touch with his sharo of tho
border work.
The mid-section of tho border line
embracing all territory between Kl
r''"'-so ?nd a point near Douglas, and
reaching northward to tho Colorado
btatc line, will bo known hereafter as
the. Department of Mexico. Under
its jurisdiction wt.'l fall the expedition
into Mexico, based at Columbus. N* M
and General Pershing ha.?5 been offered
the post of department commander.
MESSAGE TO l'EHSHI.VO
asks his wisni:s
A message went to General Pershing
to-day asking if ho desired to assume
the duties of department chief, in ad
dition to those which now fall to him
as commander in the field. Tho ex
pedition is believed to have about com
pleted tho movement begun ten days or
more ago, when General Pershing, for
strategic reasons, ordered the lines
drawn in closer to the border. The
War Departr out has no definite in
formation as to the exact whereabouts
of the various camps, hut it is thought
that the most advanced patrols now
are within 130 miles of the border.
^ No reply had been received from
General Pershing; at a late hour to
,s Possible that he wiH seo
difficulties in the way of combining
command of the ne .v department and
the expeditionary force under ona
head. in that case there are indica
tions that he would bo expected to re
linquish direct command of the expedi
ti"n and establish his headquarters at
some point on the border. The War
Department has suggested Kl Paso for
department headquarters, but left tho
final choice to General Pershing. With
the line of communications greatly
shortened, the general still could co
ordinate the operations of the various
regiment* now beyond tho line, prob
ably wit,, the c nior colonel assigned
??..LV.r?Ct oomma'"? of the expedition.
<?!? I' ICIAI.S CO>>I DKIt I Xft
EKKKCT OF COURSE
Officials here aro known to be con
sidering the effect this course might
vo ?n General Oarranza's suspicions
to the real purposes of the Amer
" government. The expedition, with
?>??11 .1 general ..nicer in command, would
ose something ,f its significance In
mil iary eyes, and could be viewed art
nothing more than the policing foreo
t was designed to be Some officials
bclie\e this would tend to hear o-jt
the assertions of t.-,* ' ashington gov
't nment that its tt jops would be with
drawn from Mexico as soon as tho
? anger of bandit raids across the bor
der had been ended.
Submission of the dual command pro
' L ' '11 1 "'iirral IVrshing, however,
was \iewed her.- as confirming tho
often-reiterated Matemcnt ih..t Pre-.,
?leiu W?so? |.s ?ot now competing
withdrawal of the expedition A?n,
