f ' to
. .
I
1 :-vv,7.vT -I- v;;-
LATEST CALLED SUGAR CDOTAHCM
M 0Wf(tta K. T. mt lb ptftN1
f riM, UkWkUma baaia 6 40 $12t
m.;.. DAY'S .WEACT V
' l). Weather Korean,
July , ;t. l.sst : twenty,
four h..ur' -rsinffilh, .32.
Temper! urer M i ilj T I Vf ai.'
S3. .Weather, cloudy ,
.7 T.
1'
Laat tmrioaa. anota-
8 ---"'
fl.08 4121.00 -
j
V J.
"v. '- . ' V. V)
f r y a a' w j-fK '
M I'll A 7 I- IV; II ;
l l I ( U, fl Hi X
; V V A V W ' V V V
a6 nt Nf V NT
VOU IX, NO. ' 53 - ? "
: siic::iel:::ig OF
. G ELC .7 COilDl,:
! '1 V: y "-IIONOLULU HAWAII TERRITORY. TUESDAY, JULY 4, 1910. SEMI-WEEKLY.
WHOLE NUMBER 4524
Tmnm
f
-4-" t'.'"t"j' 1
i - ' i ' .
Movement Made By Pershing To
Meet and Solve Supply Prob
lems Wins Approval From Of
ficials -h ' CiJy of Mexico
WASHINGTON SCOUTS IDEA
IT MEANS U. S. WITHDRAWAL
-'.';v, ' ' '(
Has Significant Political Effect In
. Southern Republic Where, ' It
Is Saidr It Has Already Pro
duced An 'Excellent Impression'
. (Aaieolaua fnu if rwUra! WiMUM.) '.
WABBINOTOK..;juiy 4. -To
AmoHcan 'Hnaof commaniea-
" tiun ia Mxieo are blng aUadlly
hortd, an jenrl Pernnlng eonata
tratea Bia'. foreM .aoutlt'f tka border,
affording to rrporta from tb front re
roived here lairt night. -
The mnvemrnt, ia declared 4a offi
cial airt-lea here Joe a at in any ajr
nrenage-ihe withdrawal of, the Ameri-
eaaa from Mexico, and ia not . being
.dona' under ordera from Waihington,
but entirf)yj.on the inhiatire of Geo
rnl Funnton and, General Perahing, and
to meet th reanirementa of the traae
port and a'npjiiy probtema. '
lit Effect la. Maxica
' Nrvcrtheiesa the movement ia having
noli tlral effect ia Ifaxieo itarlf and
the repArta from that eonatrjr (ndmata
great deal of .real eatiefaetion over
the hifti' ,h"Tei;'MBea
. northward-, Heaor Arredoado, the' apee
lat representative of the da faeio gov-,
eminent ia Vahington, Uaaed a atate
ment laet night commenting upon the
action xf the. Amerleaa : eommaadea
and doelnrins that "impreasion created
ftjr the action of the United ft a tea
troops throughout Mexico ia good."' .
Peaqr Arredonda adda that aa taat
aa the Amcricaa troppa are moved
northward "Mexican troopa are being
aent in to take their placea and are
maintaining th" good police work that
haa been done, and. keeping . perfect
control of the entire situation.
Saorg aalalag Patrol .
Hecretary of War Baker yesterday
.announced that he baa taken import
ant stnjw in the reorganiaation of the
lorder patrol witjf the hope of aeetiring
a great efficiency ia guarding the liae
and protecting American readenta from
raid by tha border, baadita from the
aoutk.
'One of the reaulti of the move will
be to aplit the present Hontbero De
partment into tbref new departmeata,
-with General Funaton at tha head of
the new. Honthern Pepartaaent, Gen.
Franklin Bell, in command bf the weat
ern department, which include the bor
der liae -of -Arizona, and westward to
the Caat, and a .central or New Mea
iao department, whleh i to be under
the tommqnd Of General Perahing, pro
vided hix dntiea ia tha Held will per
mit binuto awmtme the additional dut
ies of department, "head. -
Suggaatien of Pnuiton .
The dn ia said to be the auggea
tinn of teheralFunstoa,' ia tka inter
eat of efficiency, aad. probably pavei
the way for too appointment of e, au-,
preme commander. The tvdieatioaa are'
thatOenernl Wood ( being eomtlderod
for thia position; )' 1
. It ia nrobalila that Oeaeral Perahing,
now brigadier-general will 'be pro
moted to Ve major-gearna. :
Kecrfltary Baker also announced that
the order creating the- New Mexico' de
partment, commanded, by QencraJ
Pershins. hna been temporarily - aua-
tiended'. ueniliiia .the adjustment of.de'
tsila of the .arranirementr General
Pershing boa 'fot yet reported at to
whether hi present activities will per
mlt bim tp asauiae f he duties of com'
mander. ?.
Theae measure and others regarding
the new distribution of the patrol on
the" border 1 line, are takea in official
elrclea here, to indicate that, the mill
4ia troops niidet orders for boundary
duty are in for a prtracU4 period of
active patrol duty. They will be giv
en a, moet thorough 'trainikf under the
direction of regular army officer, in
patrol work, biusketrv practise, target
range work., and tha many other dutiea
or tue soiuier. ,
LARGE MILlTjA FORCE
POURING UPON BORDER
(Assodstsa: Prs br f4iral iriralsas.) '
NKW VOBK, July 4ThlrtT thou
and guardsmen from tha Eastern De
partment will hava reached the bolder
of ' Mesien and reported for - duty te
General Funstoa by noon today, if the
reports of the progress made by the
commands en route to the line are re
liable. .
GENERAL VON JCLUCK (Left), Commanding German Trpopt That Are Witndrawing From Northern France and In Flanders,
and Lieut-Gen. Sir Douglas. Haig, Commander-in-Chief of BritlaK Armies Now On Tremendous Offensive Against Teutons
"Tn Thia Theater of Great War . J J r:;..' js jS j j j$
a " 1 1 . "
'.' i- .ti V. - -.'..,.
' I' I . 1 ' '
- 7 X .
' 'l I V.
Sl. ii ' mil. . i i r 1 1 ' . i . ... M Mi ., , . i r i mmmmmmmmmmmm
EN.'FERDINAND FOCH,
1NES FIGHTI
(AaMciatsd Frss by r4eral Wtralssa.)
WAHHINGTON, 'July '3. American
marine and Dominican 'revolutionists
daubed near Santiago, Santo Domingo,
and one II sited btatea marine was kill
ed and two wounded by tha rifle Are
of the rebels, according to news re
ceived by the state and navy depart
menta today. ... V -'
' ; '
JAPAN SHIFTS DIPLOMATS
(Associated Tress y ydr4U WUslass.)
TOKro, July 4. Gonsuke Hayaxlti.
mbasNador to Borne, baa ben relieved
fend ordered tp proceed to. -Peking,
where be will aucoaed Kkl Hlokl, the
present minister.
V 1 " 1 '. " ) ' ' '
t
.. N : , I
sjaaai''"""''
Corn'ndgj'rench Forces Co
' " ,', : ,' ;, 4 1
U. Sr HAS 21 ,090,000
(AsaocUtsd Frsss by Tsdsral Wireless.)
WAHHIN0TON, July 3. Tha cen
sus bureau made public an estimate to
diiv that the United fttatea has SI.-
4J(HI,()(I0 men of militray age.
UNITED IRISH LEAGUE
BACKS JOHN REDMOND
(AHoelatei frssa by redaral Wtralaas.) :
Dl BLiy, July The National Di
rectory of -the United Irish League,
with
John Redmond, piesidinir. todav
agreed to accept lavid Lloyd-George's
proposal lor a aolutiou of tha
question.
aolutiou of tha Irish
RlTjXIrfiM
illONOLULANS MAY BENEFIT
(Associated TraaTby Tsdsral Wlrslass.)
NEW. YORK, July 4. Mrs. Hudrf
Green, eputed to be the richest,.-wiimaa
ia the United States, and certainly for
many yeara the. leading woman capi
talist in the eonotjy, as well aa one .f
the Nation fs mpat singular charactora,
died in berj plain New York hdme, No.
7 WeatNlke;ty-4rt street, yesterday.
Although eighty two yeara at the
time of bed death, she had been active
In the management of her affairs until
a fewsjreara ago, when her (on gradu
ally asaiiraedeome of he ' burd.'ns.
Home wetis ago the need woman becran
to fail, after having suffered a stroke-l
f paralyyis, which reudered her kelp
les.
The body will be shipped to Bellows
Falls, Verajtant, her most pretentious
home, this' aWnlnif, and the. funeral
services will be held there Wednesday
afternoon. Her aon snd her taughter.
Hylvla, whf 1 Mrs. Matthew Asto
Wilka of New York, will Attend the
funeraX I -
aUatreMv of Irtnance
Hetty Grien was tire world 'a moat
remarkableAnistress of finance. The
fortune ahehn leff is close to tlOO,
000,000. Tbk richfiit woman in Ameri
ca, ahe lived, almost as frugally sa a
shop girl. Her heme wua wherever she
choae for a time to bang her lltth
black cape nl' bonnet, often in the
hall bedroom ot some cheap boardinr
bouse, or In some remote aad modest
flat around New. York.
Her eccentric extrfmea or eeommy
led to a popular misconception of her
aa a "self-made woman. "Aa a matter
of fact 'ehr was born rich. Iq IMS
ahe inherited' some 10,000,000 which
accumulated, npo itself until in fifty
yeata it had multiplied nearly ten
tinlcs. Rhe also inherited family tradi
tions which aad been a pride for throe
centuries, and 'which she was anxious
te perpetuate in hr children, .
Rhe wasborn about . November 21,
183d at New Bedford, Massachusetts
according to ber testimony in court.
Th Ul Old maritime city was founded by
ber ancestor, Henry Howlaad, a Puri
tan, V brother of Henry Howland who
camel over on the Mayflower and who
namejl the place after Bedford, his
family home in England.
In succeeding generationa the How
land family became famous in the
whalingSindiiatry and shipping trade
with Chins,, 'and had an irreproachable
oelal standing. Edward Mott Robin
eon, wbo'kVd also amaaaed a fortune
in a aimilarVway in New Bedford, "mar
ried Abby Rowland, of whom Hettv
Robinaon, the . future mistress of fi
nance, was born. Klie was sent to a
Quaker schoor on Cape Cod, and to n
aemiaary in Boston, and got her first
lesson in finance when ber agoing
father entrusted ber 'with some of his
booka. '
Inherits Many Milton
She was juat tllrtv yeara old when
ber father died ebddenlv leaving her
hi nine nAlliony one million outrifrht
aud tha tnoomey from tha other eiht,
the principal ty be held la trust for her
DEAD,
FROM HOWLAND ESTATE
children. According to ber own stories
she "often dnneed the whole niiht
through." Kvt-o then, however, ahe
lived in n boarding house and was ho
saving that rather than pay eabfare,
she uouM pull a, pair of heavy woolen
stockings over her shoes aad walk
through the snow to parties.
Almost at the aame time that her
father died, her aunt, Hylvia Ann How
land, passed away, Waving aaveral mil
lion ilulliirs. It is aaid Hetty Robiuson
had been brought up from childhood to
count this money aa bera, and that the
aunt expressed the hope that Hetty
would some day become, as she did,
the richest woman In toe country.
Accused Of Forgery
The division of the aunt 'a estate,
however, was not as expected. Three
years after the aunt's death Hatty
Green appeared in the United Htatea
Circuit Court ia Massachusetts with
will which ahe wanted substituted for
the one uli end y probated. Thia will
was in Mrs. Git-ea'a own handwriting,
11 ml Noun' of the moat famous experts of
the day declared under oath theif be
lief that the two signatures it contain
ed were not made by the aunt, bat
were t raced by Hetty Green herself .
nvcr an origiial aiguature of Hylvia
Ann How land. . ,
The litigation is one of the mast
famous in court annals. After as
peune nf (172,000 the case was dismiss.
d on a technicality. An appeal 'wa
made to the Supreme Court ot the Unit
d .states, but while thia waa peading
1 private settlement was reached.
she married n 1867. Her husband
was Kdwanl H. Green, who waa United
Htutes Ciusul General ia Manila, where'
he hud made fortune ia the allk
trade. Before the wedding day aa
agreement waa signed to the effect that
the wife's fortune should never be
drawn on to meet the husband's debt
or iiiiv of their joint expenses. H died
in 1!02 ufter having lost moat of bia
money in Wall ettreet. Both Betty
Green and he did business there for
mnny years, but on separate aceouut.
Attacked By Bryan
William Jennings Bryan when in
Cotiu'K'Ms arguing in favor of an income
tox "Hid :
"Hetty Green enjoy an income
whirh etui searcelybe lea than 3,0UO,
000 h yeur, yet she lives at a chenp
bonrdiiiK house and spends only a few
hundred dollars. This woman, under
your indirect system of taxation, does
not pay us much toward tha support
uf the Federal Government a a labor
ing mini whose income of $Q00 la spent
upon his family."
w
ILL MAY BENEFIT
LOCAL HOWLANDS
The dinth of Hetty Green iutlmstely
affects the descendeiits of one of the
old families of Hawaii, the Howlands,
of which family there remain in the
Territory now only Mrs. Frank Aa
draile. wife of the attorney, and Frank
Howland, 11 cousin of Mra. Aadrade,
Mr A. W. Dow, a sister of Mra. An
drude, i" living in Cs'iforai". '
( Continued on Page i )
DESPERATE INFANTRY
CHARGES BEAT BACK
ARMIES OF EMPEROR
Hold Ground Gained: In First Tremendous
Assaults, And Add To String of their Vic- ,
tones; French Under General Foch Report'
Advances of Six Miles Toward Ppronne
BOOTY OFlATTLE HUGE
, -'.;,. (Associated Press By Federal Wireless)
LONDON, July 4. The great drive of the western, front continues
with i unabated fury.. W hile hundreds of Allied aeroplanes soar
back and forth above the fighting men, new mortar9, built for the
British government in the Creusot cannon works of France and'us
ing tremendous shells, far excelling in destroying power anything
that the "war haa yet seen, arc spraying the Teutonic lines, smashing
their trenches, breaking down their wire entanglements, and clear-"
ing the way Jar the r.iuh of the infantry columns to come, j ..;' 1
Ierun, auer aomuiing me retirement oi one oi vision souin oi me
Somine river Sunday, night, had but meagre reference to make to ;
the struggle on. that front yesterday, giving few details, and denying
that the British-, had made substantial gains north of the river.
Berlin Denies Allied Advances
The war office statement reported the continuance of the Allied
drive on both sides of the river;'nd added that north of the Somme
the fighting had been without, advantage to the Allies. .South of
the river, the Berlin announcement admits, the Germans have with-
drawn a division of trooos to a second line position. . " '- '.'m XJ,';. ' .
-. rwris ana mc anun war wmcc,
tinne to jreport frcshainsaud the stream ''of wounded whiclrareadry v;;
lVc'flrametioed .ttrreath lM9iytMi!Stt:ilie$Aq UnUJ-;" '':.
7Thereparts,are all of the'success of the Allies' against thtjenemy.'1 ,
of the tremendous ,hombardment"that prececded the first of the irn
farrtry attacks, last Saturday morning and of the deadly -fighting ;-
. . 'c 1 1 lit 1 . 1 r . 1 -t . ... I . . . 1 1 A v."
inai loiioweo 111c sigjiai; lor ine
advance. . jf .
French Line Is Sweeping On
Gen. Ferdinand roch, who conimands the French right wiug,
reported in a despatch to the war office last night that his men ire ;V '
"sweeping on," They have already"gained an additional eight ktk "',
mlir nf o-rrttlnrl frrm tb w-mme tn K.iv inrllldinc fi villa cr' trie?
m nr. 1 ...... .rft .. nfr r ( ..hlK n f I avI .
east of I'errone, and distant from
rniles." ' :'; ' ' ' . .' 'y . : :
" In summing up the general results of the Sunday n4 Monday
fighting on this front; the reports of the British war office and of the
Paris iiVx-ial communiques, issued yesterday afternoon and last night, , ;
say that the British .have .taken 4MX) prisoners and the Fjrench fXKX).
Capture Height Near Ancourt - ; a' i '
AVilli allmiule cannonading and iiifmitry attacks the Brititti have
Sueei-wh-d in forcing additional jrains in the Ancre diwtrict, Where they
had diflieultv in holding their advanw last Saturday.. r t'hey have, v ,
taken an eli-vatinn north of Ariconrt, for whleh they hayeht9en fight- '
lnif (IcspiTineiy. ,
Thit'pval. 4ne of the towns foililul by the Germans After it fifJl ,
into their hamls following the batth- of the Marne, has been DorobartUxr.. '
heavilv hv the British batteries, ami th! Enfrlmh infantry' ia holding ,,
firm at Mantaiiban. taken in the first
Seven Teuton Batteries Captured
.. i e . . n i i
orvi n u.iiifji ii ii-iiiittniii'iu K,,lln i"i 4i iniv iimaurr ui inn-
ehine i;iiiim bimI trench guns have fallen into tht? hands of the attackers.
A imiiiiUt of important .VraVl?'8 positioiM have been taken and the
Oermnn position in that sector, ami itulcod along the whole line is
decland to he iniarilod.'' . 'i Rr'l !
Tin- wounded from (the ,tirt lay's attaek tiegan reaching the hos-
pitals here yesterdajtiHiornlug. There were whole trainloada of them,
iiiiiMi) Mianv Ttixiiivim ui ii, ihiiiii- oi niiwiu iuro siiu uaini uy mv;
t4'rritie enneussions of the lxjitilmnlnifnt that intrtxlueed the. attack.
For tli4 rest, niost .of thom -were suffering from minor wounds made
by hnvonnts. Only a lew .of them had suffered from shell fire. '.
Numbera of them in 'dearribing the fighting deejaml that it was for
the most part hand to hand, man to num. with the payonet or the
eluhhi'tl rille. The masses of the troops were so cloe together that the
artillery ws unable to eome into pay on the fighting front for feat
of killing its own men, but kept up a steady stream of fire on the com
municating trenches, in order to halt tin- reinforcements that were
hurried forward to take the place oi' the deid and wounded.
La Boiselle Garrison Surrenders " ' -
The British flunomiftal last night that their lines have continued to
forge forward, though not with the same dash as as shown on the
first day of the battle. They have maintained their posltionS( south of
the Ancre rivi-r, where the Germans have launched a serien of fierce
counter-attacks, that have 1eeii repulsed, with heavy losses.
Kailier in the day Sir Douglas llaig. the British commander-in-chief,
reported that the fragment of the garrison that still held out
in La Hoisolle had been compelled to surrender, and later despatches
told-of fighting farther to' the i tist of that place, indicating A slight
advance by the attacking forces in the neighborhood of the town.
A si'clion of the German line between La Boiselle and Pricourt,
which surrendered Sunday morning, held out until yesterday. Then
fresh assaults by the Colouial troops Niiucceded in forcing the Teutons
tti abandon their positions, or surrender. The fighting In this locality
( Continued oil Page 3 )
' ' '
nowevcr. 111 terse iwneuns, coil-- :
iiuaniry iu icavc inc ircucucs inq ' '
'..'''. "".:.' ' 1 -
1 ' V , .'!'"'
cr .1, n rl AettAirillAM 4. th fiAllth
that city about three English ;.
big rush of Saturday, ' ';'
" , '
i -
t.'V;
.rv;..:
. ''yy:;0y: 'y v !
' ' .:
. '. ' - V I - ' i '
