THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, JULY 4, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 47
ML - Sl -PREPARED HH
1D
FEW
DAYS
HOR
n
AN
a m
V V 111
French and British Continue Victorious Advance in West
FRENCH FOLLOW UP THEIR
SUCCESSES BY TAKING THE
GERMAN SECOND TREHGHES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Under command of the dashing General Foch, the FrencTi troops which
are co-operating with the British in the great offensive in the Somme river
region, have made notable gains in the direction of Peronne, one of the most
important strategic points along the front. Successively, they have captured
Herbecourt, Feuilleres and Flaucourt, and iarther to the south French in
fantry stormed and occupied Assevil leres. They followed this success by
carrying the second line of German entrenchments as far as the outskirts of
Estrees.
Then came the capture of Buscourt and Flacourt.
Something more than three miles were thus gained, which added to pre
vious gains, give the French troops a clear advance of about six miles at the
tartherest point within three miles of Peronne.
Meanwhile, the British, moving slowly but over a longer front, have cap
tured La Boiselle, where the fighting in the last two days has been of the
fiercest yet, and the repulse of many counter attacks by the Germans. Brit
ish troops, however, have been forced back from some of the positions which
they had taken early Monday morning, and it is evident that the German ar
tillery tire has become much heavier than during the earlier stages of the
battle.
The prisoners taken by the British so far, number 4,300, while the French
have captured 8,000 or more. The war material taken by the French include
seven batteries, three of tremendous cajibre, 9 machine guns and trench guns.
Other batteries in casements also fell into the hands of the French.
Aerial activity is increasing in connection with the battle of the Somme,
hundreds of machines being engaged in reconnoitering, directing the guns
and fighting. In the three days' engagement the British have lost fifteen
machines.
The Russian war office reports the capture of 2,300 prisoners in the var
ious sectors of the eastern front. There is heavy fighting at many points on
tho Russian front and the Austrians h'ave opened a powerful offensive south
Of Linewka and west of Lutsk, they inaugurated other aggressive actions, but
according to Petrograd, were repulsed.
The Italian offensive continues without cessation, both artillery and in
fantry being employed in strong force against the Austrians.
Franco-British
Lines Advance
Tn Somme Region
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PARIS, July 3. The third day of the
battle of the Somme shows that the
Franco-British lines hve been further
British Hold
All Positions
South of Ancre
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON', July 4. "Substantial
progress at sninc points." is reported
in the late-it official communication
advanced with'the French right wing issued from British general headquar-
sweeping to the eastward south of the tors in J- ranee. The Germans sitceeert
Somme. A group of strategic villages, vd in driving- some if the British
a lame number of German prisoners triors from some of the positions
and heavy guns have been taken. . which t:ey had captured in the mom
The advanced French lines now are I ,mt f!e'here the German at
K. throo milu frm tho tm.u.rt.-, n t t JcliS Were repulsed.
.., i..... t..n.. ..r i-,mr,nc. .ho ,iJ Descviling the battle around
fense of which has been greatly weak- I r!o:s lie and south of Thieval. the
ened by the capture by the French on ' "tatement declares the advantage on
Sunday of Mereaucourt woods, south of , the v. hoie. remained with the. British,
the Somme and between Feuilleres and j Today s news is again a tale of the
Frise. This was the strongest forti- continued progress of the Anglo
fied position of the German second line ! French offensive. Heavy fighting U
of defence on the entire front of the ' pweeding all along the line. The
attack, but the French division which British maintain all their positions
took Frise continued to advance with:s(,,h "f the Ancre river, where the
such impetus that the Germans were battle still rages. They -lave captured
unable to resist, even under the pro- j La Boiselle the garrison of which sur
tection of this formidable work. jiendcred and are fighting successfully
The French success at Frise was. also ground (Killers and north of Fricourt.
brilliant, as it straightened their line ' The British people learned for the
south of the elbow of the Somme, thus first time tonight that the famous
avoiding exposure to cross-fire. The French Get.eral Foch who has won a
French announcement today of the cap- great reputation during the course of
ture of the village of Herbecourt and the war is directing the operations
EL N9 Tl BE
BRIGADE POST
FOR ARTILLERY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO. Tex., July 3. K Paso
is to become the station of a skeleton
brigade of field artillery under th
command of Colonel Granger Adam.'
i.f the Fifth field artillery, it wa
learned here tonight. Organization
to muke up the brigade are the Fiftl
United States field artillery, the Firs;
Massachusetts field artillery, both o.
which regiments are here and batter
ies from Connecticut and Rhode Is
land, wfiieh are expected to anivi
shortly.
The concentration, according ti
military men, will make El Paso th
largest military station in the I'nitec
States. It is pointed out that ' E.
Paso, being the largest of the.bordei
towns, is entitled to have such protection.
Immediately upon detraining toda
the Massachusetts regiment, consist
ing of l.tHiu men and eighteen gunt
began mounting their cannon on th
mesa behind the city alongside o
the regular artillery, their nose:
pointed toward Mexico. The firs
squadron of the First Massachusett:
cavalry also detrained here today a 4
immediately went into camp.
With practically all of the guari
organizations here under canvas
drills and other work was begun to
day to whip the men into shape fo
field service in the heat of the bor
der country. At military headquar
ters it was learned that the distribu
tion of seme of the infantry and cav
alry of the state troops at isokitui
border points in the El Paso milium
district will begin within a day o.
so. It was pointed out that there ar
numerous districts which heretofore
the regular troos have been insuf
ficient to protect.
Numbers of troop trains passet
through El Paso today and tonigh'
bound for points west, while tlx
backward movement of the empt:
trains, which had carried guardsmei
to the frontier, also was begun. Rail
way officials asserted that the prob
lem of restoring to normal traffif
lines which have been congested b)
troop travel is rapidly nearing solu
tion.
I General Francisco Gonzales, com
I manding the Juarez garrison, an
iiuuhi ru K'uifewi. Liiai it njci nu lid.,.
would leave tomorrow for Villa Ann
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page TwoK
1QIIIED BY TRAIN LOADS
REACHLONDOIJ FROM FRANCE
Republican A. P. Leased Wlref
LONDON. July v Several special
trains loaded with wounded from the
battlefield in France arrived at the
three principal London stations last
evening. Great crowds assembled at
the approaches to the stations and
cheered the men, most of whom had
'been wounded during the fighting on
Saturday.
In a few cases, the men were still
so dazed that they were unable to tell
what day it was but in a majority of
the cases, their condition was not very
serious. It is remarkable how few men
were suffering from shell or bullet
wounds. Most of them were victims
of bayonet, testifying to the hand to
hand nature of the fighting.
"The soldiers had vivid stories of the
battle to relate. A. Gordon Highlander
declared that the regiment had added
a glorious new chapter at Mametz, to
its history.
"The Kilties led the charge," he said,
"They swept over the ground and car
ried the first line of battered trenches
without a single man falling. In the
outskirts of the village, however, the
Germans had concealed a number of
.machine guns' and a hurricane of lead
was poured into those in advance. But
the Gordons did not hesitate. They
leaped into the trenches, clearing line
after line at the bayonet point; then
pushed into the village, although it was
Stll being shelled by artillery. As soon
as they gained a foothold the elevation
of the guns was altered and a curtain
of fire poured onto the ground behind,
where the enemy supposed were mass
ing.
, "Every yard of the village Rtreets
was contested but re-inforcerhents
pushed up and by nightfall the High
landers had secured possession."
(Continued on Page Two)
o
Pershing's Men
To Celebrate The
Glorious Fourth
GUARDSMEN OF NATION
REACH BORDER AND GO
INTO MILITARY CAMP
NO BEER FOR
MINING CAMP
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FIELD HEADQUARTERS. Mexico
July 3 (Via radio to Columbus) Th
Fourth of July will be celebrated by
General Pershing's army in the simp
lest and sanest way.
At noon, from the general down to
the humblest mule driver, the thou
sands of men will stand at attention
facing the flag while scores of bugles
will sound "To The Colors." On the
last note the motionless olive-clad
fighting men will spring to life in a
simultaneous salute to the stars and
stripes.
The field games that ordinarily are
played in camp on holidays will be
omitted tomorrow. Baseball would be
appreciated but there is not a single
baseball or bat at the front.
There are no blank cartridges for
firing a salute and fire crackers are
tabooed.
The rainy season has not yet put
in its appearance and today the wind
drove vast clouds of dust through the
base. The soldier boys will welcome
a good, healthy rainstorm.
New Mexico National Guard
Sent To Elephant Butte Dam
l DOUGLAS, Ariz., July 3 Fear-
! ing the sale of liquor in Johnson, I
I a mining camp in the northern
I part of Cochise county, would re-
I suit in rioting among Mexicans j
i employed there, fifteen heavily
armed citizens formed a posse,
! Saturday night, held up four mo- j
tor trucks and smashed 1040 bot-
ties of beer being taken into the
' camp. News of the posse's ac-
! tion was received here today by
I John F. Foss, county attorney, in j
I a telegram from the leaders of I
j the, citizen's committee of sixty,
I which had been organized in
Johnson, following a minor dis-
i turbance there a week ago.
D
Congressional Position' is
Forsaken by Connecticut
Congressman When State
Militia is Called to Border
to Protect the Nation
DDI BEST TO
SI If I T
FUNSTON READY
TOGfVEUPPflRT
DF HIS COMMAND
TROOPS ENOUGH
FOR CAMPAIGN
SOON ON BORDER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIHUAHUA CITY, July 3. Commenting-
on the American charge
hat Mexican forces have done noth
ng to exterminate banditry, but have
nly watched operations by General
Jershing's troops since their entry
nto Mexico, General Jacinto Trevino,
ommander of the military district of
lorthtast. in, r.n interview today with
he correspondent of The Associated
''ress, pointed to what he said was
Republican A. P Leaned Wire
GUARDSMEN OF NATION PG ONE
DOUGLAS Ariz. July 3. Approxi
mately 1000 New Jersey militiamen
were em-amped tonight at '""amp Fred
erick FLnston northwest of Douglas.
after a long, tiresome journey across
the continent and a busy day of un
loading cqVii n.fnt and making camp.
Several thousand additional guards
men were expected to arrive at the
camp by the end of this week.
Twc batteries of New Jersey ar
tillery, A. and B.. were the first to
arrive today from the east. They were
assigned positions adjoining the field
hospital and , ambulance company
which were ine first to detrain lastfl
night. Detachments of the First in
fnt: y ot New Jersey followed the ar
tillery. The r.cw camp was the busiest por
tion of DougHs during the day. Lnre
lunntities of provisions for men and.
horses were, brought in by soldiers o
the regular army. A large field near
the railroad tracks rapidly was filled
with wagons, trucks and guns which
vtrc unloaded as quickly as possible
from the Incoming trains in order to
he strategic position of his troop hue to .-"oses ar,l cheeks.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMBUS. N. M., July 3.
Troops of the . New Mexico National
Guard have been ordered rushed to
the Elephant Butte dam, one hundred
and thirty-five miles northeast' of
Columbus. The dam is the second
largest body of artificial water in the
world .and irrigates a valley for 150
miles south.
Announcement was made today
that Major C. S. Farnsworth, com
manding the expeditionary base here,
will hold v. field inspection later in
the week of the First New Mexico in
fantry and the Second Massachusetts
infantry, the militia units on station
in this district.
Reports from the field indicated
that no general northward movement
of troops had begun. Military author
ities here believed such a movement
'improbable, especially in view of re
cent reports of the presence of Vil
iistas south of Colonia Dublan.
o command the outlaw situation as
efuting the accusal.
In addition to showing how his
forces were favorably disposed in
'oahuila and Tumaulipas, down to
Durango City, Torreon and Parral,
ind as far as Tuxpan and Vera Cruz
he recited reports of numerous en
counters with small bands of out
laws in the vicinity of Vera Cruz.
. )ui ing the last two months these
lands either have secured amnesty
r are negotiating for it. The only
x'eption is a small band of about
'hirty under Martin Lopez.
He stated that below Parral, the
inly important bandit organization
now remaining consists of about "HO
men under the leadership of Beltran,
i'adillo and a few others. An ex
'ensive co-ordinated movement, he
issertcd. is in progress from all the
surrounding garrisons, made" up of
more than 2,000 men from Jiminez,
Parral. Rosario, Rurango and Tor
reon, to annihilate this body, wiiieh
has its headquarters in Canutillo, be
low Los Nneves. According to the
general, a strong effort will be made
to end this sole remaining menace
to the organized government and
eliminate what he tcr,med the only
possible pretext the American gov
ernment has for keeping its troops in
Mexico.
General Trevino cites the execution
of Pablo Lopez, Sandoval Quinones.
Cruz Dominguez and numerous, lesser
known leaders as showing his govern
ment's activity in suppressing out
'awry. He declares the following
former anti-Carranza together with
many others of less note, have prom
ised their services in case they are
needed.
mane rcom for those coming behind
Hundreds of mihtiamer., the faces ence given the report.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, July 3 Maj. Gen.
Funston, who has had command of the
entire border army, was awaiting orders
from the war department tonight to
turn over the direction of the El Paso
base and everything west of there. Un
officially, he had been advised early in
the day that the recommendations he
made several days ago that the border
army be placed under the command of
three major generals, had been acted
upon by the secretary of war. Later
news from Washington, however, indi
cated that Gen. Funston would con
tinue to have charge of everything to
the Arizona line for the present.
It was expected here that Maj. Gen.
Franklin Bell, commanding the west
ern department, would take over the
western end of the line without delay,
but Geenral Pershing's assumption of
the New Mexico department, includ
ing the El Paso base, will be delayed
pending the working out of "minor, de
tails." The announcement from Wash
ington that General Pershing would
I not undertake the direction of his com
mand immediately was accompanied
by a rumor difficult to trace that the
punitive expedition he now commands
in Chihuahua was to be withdrawn.
No intimation that the administration
had determined to withdraw the puni
tive force had been received at army
headquarters here, nor was much cred-
of most f ihem appearing almost pal
lid ir crntiasl with those of the reg
ulars who have been stationed here for
many months, worked ceaselessly
among tl.c herpes, equipment and in
the camp.
Within a few hours dust mixed with
perspirat ion streaked the faces of the
men the hot sun ouoiing a reddish
Several ice cream and soda pop
wagons did a big business- among the
militiamen as they Jumped from their
trains. A hurry call was sent to laun
dries, the srimrdsmen remarking they
(Continued on Page Two)
-
MAY SOON WITHDRAW '
PUNITIVE EXPEDITION
1
Mexico Gets On War Footing
Along the Northern Border
Norton Hand Is
Given Liberty By
General Calles
Report Is Confirmed
F.L PASO July, 3. That New Mex-.
ico guardsmen had been sent to guard
the Elephant butte dam was con
firmed at department headquarters
here tonight. It was stated, however,
that because the movement involved
the transfer of troops from the juris
diction of General Pershing to that
of General v George Bell, Jr., notHing
could be given) out here until the
movement had been completed. There
were unconfirmed rumors here today
that the dam was in danger of being
dynamited.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLA S, Ariz., July 3 Norton
Hand, arrested by the Mexican au
thorities at Isacozari, Sonora, two
weeks ago for alleged participation in
a fight with Mexican cowboys in
which ' James Parks, an American,
and A. R. Dickson, a British subject,
were killed, was released late today.
Hand was Iwought to Agua Prieta,
opposito here, and given his liberty by
General P. Llias Calles military com
mander of Sonora.
After crossing to Douglas, Hand
said he was given every possible pro
tection by the jnilitary authorities
after his arrest, that he had no
complaint to make, but that the peri
od of his imprisonment was the most
anxious period of his life. Each day
he expected to be executed.
He retold the etory of meeting
three Mexican cowboys at a ranch
near Arizpe, Sonora, while he and
his companions were making- their
way to the border. The fight oc
curred, he said, when the Mexicans
attempted to disarmr Parks, Dickson
and himself.
COLUMBUS, N. M., July 3. Re-
I ports that It is generally expected
at the southern base that the puni-
tive expedition in Mexico will be
withdrawn as soon as the move-
mment along the border of the Na-
tional Guard is completed, were
brought here today, along with 15
j truck loads of surplus kits which
arrived from General Pershing's
I headquarters in Mexico. It was
stated that rumors were current
two days ago in the American camp
that two cavalry regiments were to
j be ordered to Columbus within a
week. No confirmation of these
rumors was obtainable tonight
either here or at the southern end
of the line.
-
General Pershing has withdrawn the
southernmost part of his force and has
concentrated his main body in such
manner as to withstand any attack the
Mexican army might make. His most
southern station today was at EI Valle,
some 30 miles north of Namiquipa. His
headquarters remained at Colonia Dub
lan. Two main points of concentra
tion in easy reach of each other have
been established, but just where the
two concentrations are is information
that General Funston is withholding.
Acting on the assumption that the
administration might call upon the
army to readjust relations with Alexico,
General Funston and his staff have
placed the disposition of the national
guardsmen so that with the 40,000 reg
ular troops already facing the interna
tional -line, the whole force could be
used for invation if called upon. Train
after train bearing guardsmen and sup
plies moved steadily toward designated
stations today and indications were that
by the end of the week the mobilization
would be almost completed.
Gen. D. J. Foster, commanding the
First Illinois brigade, teached his com
mand here and began the supervision
of its routine work. Three more regi
ments from Illinois and three from
Wisconsin will complete the reserve
force General Funston expects to hold
here. The first lot of Wisconsin troops,
a battalion of artillery and a troop of
cavalry', should arrive early tomorrow.
The First Illinois cavalry passed
through towards Brownsville. The
Missouri troops went to Laredo and the
Kansas troops to Eagle Pass. A part
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 3. While the
diplomatic aspects of the Mexican dif
ficulty showed no change tonight, war
department measures for a new dis
tribution of the border patrol clearly
indicated that months of active ser
vice along the frontier await the
thousands of national guardsmen gath
ering in the south from all parts of
the country. Only the appointment of
a general officer to supreme com
mand is lacking now to complete ade
quate administrative machinery, not
only for border operations but for a
campaign of any desired proportions
in Mexico, should general hostilities;
eome.
Under the new plan the L800 mile
frontier -will be divided sp that the
southern and western military de
partments will take care of the eastern
and western extremities of the line, re
spectively. Major General Frederick
Funston, relieved from responsibility
for the entire border at his own. rec
ommendation, will continue in com
mand of the southern department,
while Major General Franklin Bell,
commanding the western department,
will transfer his headquarters from
San Francisco to Douglas, Ariz., to be
in direct touch with his share of the
border work.
The mid-section of the border line.
embracking territory between El Paso
and a point jiear Douglas, and reach
ing northward to the Colorado state
line, will be known hereafter as the
department of New Mexico. Under its
jurisdiction will fall the expedition
Into Mexico, based at Columbus, N.
M., and Brigadier General John J.
Pershing, now commanding the expe
ditionary forces, has been offered the
post of department commander.
A message went to General Persh
ing today asking if he desired to as
sume the duties of department chief,
as commander in the field. The ex
pedition is believed to have about com
pleted the movement begun ten days
or more ago, when General Pershing,
for strategic reasons, ordered drawn
in closer to the border. The war de
partment has no definite information
as to the exact whereabouts pf the va
rious camps, but it is thought that the
most advanced patrols now are within
150 miles of the border.
No reply had been received "from
General Pershing at a late hour to
night. It is possible that he will see
difficulties in the way of combining
command of the new department and
of the expeditionary force under one
head. In that case there are indica
tions that he would be expected to re
linquish direct command of the expe
dition and establish his headquarters
at some point on the border where
he could give personal attention to
its needs and also supervise the dis
position and training of the thousands
of national guardsmen soon to be add
ed to the portion of the line within
the new department. The war depart
ment has suggested El Paso for de
partment headquarters, but left the
final choice to General Pershing. With
the line of communications generally
shortened the general still could co
ordinate the operations of the vari
ous regiments now beyond the line,
1 (Continued on Page Two)
' i I
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EAGLE PASS, July 3. Mexican
troops throughout the north of Mex
ico pre being . concentrated along
sound military lines, according to
close students of military affairs
among officers here. News reaching
the border indicates that the general
plan being followed by the Mexican
commands is to scatter small mobile
bodies of cavalry throughout the
country just south of the border and
concentrate their main forces at
points some distance in the interior,
to meet attack and also allows the
movement of ammunition and sup
plies when necessary.
Reports indicate that this general
Plan is being followed frm the Gulf
of Mexico to the Giilf of California,
Mexican troop movements have been
almost continuous in some sections
and it is believed that in some cases
the same troops have been moved
back and forth along a certain lfne
many times. From sources regarded
as reliable, reports would seem to in
dicate the following possible Mexican
bases in the north: Monterey, Lam
pa'zos, Monclove, Cuatro, Cienegas,
Sierra Mojada, Torreon," Chihuahua,
some points .between Nacozari and
Fronteras, Hermosillo and some port
of the west coast.
Of these, Torreon, from its location
and railroad advantages, probably
would be the main base. A force at
Monterey would be in a position to
oppose an ndvance from Borwnsville
and guard the line leading to Tam-pico.
The force at Lampazos would be Paso and also is so located as to
available in event of movement from
Laredo and could readily be switched
to aid in the repulse of movements
originating at Brownsville or Eagle
Pass. The Monclova garrison would
attempt to hold the line south from
Eagle Pass.
From Cuatro Cienegas, on the east
and Sierra Mojada on the west,
troops could be sent into the territory
opposite the Big Bend district of
Texas, throijgh which no railroad
operates. Cuatro Cienegas and Sierra
Mojada, are railroad terminals and
well used trails lead from each into"
the district opposite Presidio, Texas.
Chihuahua City would seem a nat
ural base for operations against a
column moving into Mexico from El
feed columns operating in western
Chihuahua in the direction of the
line now held by General Pershing.
Cut off by the Sierra Madres,
through which there are few passes
available for troops the Mexican forc
es in Sonora, it is believed, would be
forced to conduct practically a sep
arate campaign along the Nacoznri
Fronteras line, being drawn across
the main line of advance from Doug
las and those at Hermosillo, being
available against a force marching
south from Nogales.
Torreon, connected by railroads
with Mexico City, Monterey, Saltil
lo, Durango and Chihuahua and Jua
rez is so placed as to be the main
supply station of the Mexican army.
APPLICATION FOR .
RED CROSS MEMBERSHIP
Phoenix Chapter, American National Red Cross,
Care of H. J. McClung, rhoenix National Bank,
Phoenix, Arhs.
Herewith, I make application for membership in the Phoenix Chapter,
American National Red Cross. I enclose One Dollar ($1.00) as payment of
the first year's enrollment fee.
July.
1916.
V
(Signed)
(Address)
I
