WEATHER
MARKETS
IZON A Generally
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
June 28, 25.77.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, JULY 4, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
VOL. 19, NO. 32.
i
EXPED
WITHDRAWAL
STROKGLY
HUMO
i
i:
i
Many Truckloads Of Army j
Supplies Reach Columbus j
rrom Headquarters in mex;
ico. Start Out, Reported
WASHINGTON DOUBTS
WITHDRAWAL REPORTS!
New Movement Believed By
Army Men To Be Toward!
Enabling Regulars To Con
centrate To Strike .
(By Review Leased Wire.)
CoLl'HBUS. x' M.. July 3. Re
ports that it is generally expected at
the southern base that the punitive
expedition in Mexico will be-withdrawn
as soon as the movement along
the border of the national guard is
con.pleted. were brought here today,
Along with 15 truck loads of surplus
kits which arrived from General Per
"shtng's headquarters in Mexico. It
was stated that the rumor was current j
in the American camp that two caval- J
ry regiments were to be ordered to i
minion of these rumors was obtain-' for alleged participation in a fight
able tonight, either here or at the : with Mexican cowboys in which
southern end of the line. i James Parks, an American, and A. R.
j Dickson, a Britislt subject, were killed
SAX ANTOXIO. July 3. Ma jot , was released late today. Hand was
General Funston. who has had com- brought to Agua Prieta, opposite here,
li'.and of the entire border army, was and given his liberty by General P.
awaiting orders from the war depart- Ellas Calles. niilita.y commander of
ment tonight to turn over the direc- Sonora.
tion of El Paso base and everything After crossing to Douglas, Hand
west of there. Unofficially he had gaj,i ne was given every possible pro
teen advised early in the day that tection by the military authorities af
the recommendations he made several ter his arrest, that he had no corn
days ago that the border army be plaint to make, but that the period of
placed under the command of three Ma imprisonment was the most anx
major generals had been acted upon ious period of his life. Each day he
by the secretary of war. loiter news expected to be executed,
from Washington, however, indicated j He retold the story of meeting
that General Funston would continue three Mexican cowboys at a ranch
to have charge of everything to the' near Arizipe. Sonora, while he and his
Arizona state line for the present. j companions were making their way
It was expected here that Major- to the border. The fight occurred, be
General J. Franklin Bell, commanding ' said, when the Mexicans attempted
the western department, would take to disarm Parks, Dickson and hfmseir.
over the western end of the line with- ' General Calles stated he ordered
rtut delay, but General Pershing's as- ; the release of Hand in the Interest of
sumption of the New Mexico depart- j harmony and peace between the l n
ment. including the El Paso base, will . ited States and Mexico.
be delayed pending the working out
of "minor details." j
The announcement from Washing- j
ton that General Pershing would not
undertake the direction of his com
mand immediately' was accompanied
by a rumor, difficult to trace that the
tmnitive expedition he now commands
in Chihuahua was to be withdrawn.
Withdrawal Doubted.
Xo intimation that the administra
tion bed determined to withdraw the
punitive force had been received at
army headquarters here, nor was
much credence given the report.
General Pershing -has withdrawn
the southernmost part of his force
and has concentrated his main body In
such manner as to withstand any at
tack the Mexican army might make.
His most southerly station today was
at El Valle. some 30 miles north of
Xamiqiiipa. His headquarters re
gained at Colonia ITublan. Two
main points of concentration in easy
reach of each other have been estab
lished, but just where the two con
centration points are, is information
that General Funston Is withholding.
To Concentrate Regulars.
Acting on the assumption that the
administration might call upon the
army to withdraw to readjust rela
tions with Mexico, General Funston
and h!s staff have planned the dispo
sition of the national guardsmen so
that with the 40,000 regular troops
already facing the international line,
the whole force could be used for in
vasion if called upon. Train after
train bearing guardsmen and supplies
moved steadily towards designated
stations today and indications were
that by the end of the week the mob
ilization would be almost completed.
General D. J. Fostr. commanding the
First Illinois brieade. reached hia com
mand here and began the supervision
or its routine work.
(Continued on Page 2)
Great Artillery Base
Developing at El Paso
(By Review Leased Wire.) !
EL PASO, July 3. El Paso is to -
became the station of a skeleton bri-
uade of field artillery under the com-
man dof Colonel Grartser Adams of
the Fifth field artillery, it was learned
here tonight. Organizations to make
up the brigade are the Fifth. United
States field artillery, the First Mass-
achusetts field artillery, both of which
regiments are here , and batteries from
Connec.eut and Rhode Island, which
are expected to arrive shortly.
The concentration, according to mil-
itarv men. will make El Paso the i
largest artillery station in the United
States. It is pointed 'out that El Paso, :
being the largest of the border towns,
is entitled to have such protection.
Immediately upon detraining today
ih Manfhnetts regiment, consist-
ing of 1000 men and 18 guns, began
nountir.g their cannon on the vmesa
behind the city along side of the regu-
lar artillery, their noses pointed to-
ward Mexico. The first squadron ot ;
the First Massachusetts cavalry also'
I
MONTHLY AVERAGE
The average price of copper
for the month ending June 30
was 26.C01. according to fig
ures of the Engineering and
Mining Journal.
BY SONORA
American Held Prisoner Two
Anxious Weeks, Proves
Innocence; Reaches Doug
las. Tells Of Skirmish
(By Review Leased Wire.)
DOl'GLAS. July 3. Norton Hand.
arrested by the Mexican authorities
TO ELEPHANT
BUTTE DAM
Mystery Shrouds Despatching
Of New Mexico State Sol
diers To Great Irrigation
Plant
(By Review Leased Wire.)
COLUMBUS, N. M., July 3. Troops
of the New Mexico national guard
have been ordered rushe dto the Ele
phant Butte dam 135 miles northeast
of Columbus. The dam is the second
largest body of artificial water in the
world and irrigates a valley for 150
miles south.
EL PASO, July 3 That New Mex
ico guardsmen have been ordered to
the Elephant Butte dam was con
firmed at department headquarters
here tonight. It was stated, however,
that because the movemen' involved
the transfer of troops from the juris
diction of General Pershln,; to that of
General George Bell. Jr., nothing
could be given out here until the
movement had been completed. There
were unconfirni' run-ors here today
that the dam was in daneer of being
lynair-,ed.
RELEASED
GO OR
RUSHED
detrained here today and immediately I
went into camp. j
With practically nil of the guard or-'
ganizat ions here under canvas, drills i
and other work was bisun today to;
whip the men into shr, for field r.rrv-!
ice In the heat of the border country. I
At military headquarters it was H aril- j
od flhat disposition of some of the in-
fantry and cavalry of stale tnops at I
isolated points in the El Paso mili-j
tary district will begin in a day or bo.
It was pointed out that th?re are nu- J
merous districts which heretofore the:
regular troops have been insufficient
to nrotct.
Numbers 'of troop trains pa.sheu
through M !'? tous n ionium,
bound for points west, while the back-;
ward movement of the empty trains, j
wh en hart carried gmirasmen i
gfrontier, also was begun. Railroad
offic als asserted that the problem "'
restoring to normal traffic lines which .
nave congcriea Dy troop imvei i-
idly nearing completion.
(Continued on Page 2)
EO
General At Chihuahua . City
Says One Lone Band Of ,
enn r A D V
500 Kemam As Pretext tOT
American Occupation
i
(By Review Leased Wire.)
CHIHT'AHI'A CITY Julv 3. Com- I
mentlng on the American charge that :
Mexican forces have done nothing to
exterminate banditry, but have only
watched. onerat ions bv General Persh-
wail neu.operai ions n uriiemi ir ra
Inu'ii trrainn &ince their entrr into
l".?"..!"?" V";!.... - -nI".Z "
iiexiio, ueucrai j.iBiuiu nc.mu. iu,.,
mander of the military district of the
nnnhPt m an f.,t(.rvH,w todav with
tlie correspondent of The Associated '
Draco nnint orl tn u-Vt'it no iH In WA
Mill
S
the strategic position of his troops to ; Stripes, as they promise to do today, try; Granger Adams. Hfth r eld ar
command the outlaw situation, as re-! Bisbee is tfot alone in this. Every tillery; George A. Dodd. cavalry, un
futing the accusations community, no matter how large nor assigned: Edward H. Plummer. Twen-
In addition to showing how his fort-i l'ow small. Is celebrating. It means ty-eighth infantry, and Clarence P.
es were favorably disposed in Coahui-more than the explosion of crackers TownsJey. of the Coast artillery corps,
la nH TamniiHnns- down to Dura nen and the sending of investigative rock- kout lieutenant-colonels were named
Citv Torreon and Parral. and as far !
l.llv, i orreon ana rarrai, auu as lar ,
as Tuxpan and Vera Crui, he cited re-
iwrt nf nnmerons encounters with
small bands of outlaws In the vicinity !
of Vera Cruz. During the last two I
montiis the bands either have secured . composite American, nas oeen suppitr. Geneinl Mills has been in tne serv
amnesty or are negotiating for it. The niented by a reasonable doubt and jce ginoe 1574. As a cavalry officer,
only exception is a small band of a-1 has given way to that feeling which n(, distingunshed himself in the Indian
bout thirty under Martin Lopez. makes for a national entity, an entity waa an(1 in lne Dattie 0f Santiago,
He stated that below Parral. the which means the perpetuation of the . Putll . where he was severely wounded,
only important bandit organization nation of all of its ideals. ' ; In 1912 he served as president of the
now remaining consists of about 700 The Warren District's part 'of the.Brmv waf coP8e , He became . chief
Reltram
Pnriilln and a. few others. An exten-'to
sive co-ordinated movement, he as-j
serted, is In progress from Jimiuez, : people of the District are In 4 ""'reorganiiiition that in now in progress. paVed in camp on holidays will be , (.inter aitscks bv the Germans, llrit
Parral. Rosario. Durango and Torreon land willing mood to pay court t'J the; .. .Ho.,la ions recognized as
n,iiftAf1 Inmnrmw Hnsehall would be iut, tm.nd l.ivwpr hve hn fnrreil
to annihilate this body which has its
headquarters In Canutillo. below Log.edness. even to the netensive ju 01
Nieves. According to the general, a
strong effort would be made to end
this sole remaining menace to the or
eanlzed Eovernment and eliminate
l. . U . .1 I. M .1 I-.
text the American government has
for keeping its troops in Mexi.o.
.r.' v'T.:,c.Trr!
1 auni nauuu'aii ...
Cruz Dominguez and numerous lesser
known leaders as showing his govern -
aienfs activity In suppressing out -
lawry. He declares many former
chief anti-Carranzistas together with
many others of leaser note, have
promised their services in case they
are needed.
.
MEXICAN CAVALRY
NEAR EAGLE PASS i
Large Forces Threaten Texas
Town, Guarded By Kan
sas Troops
(By Review Leased Wire.)
EAGLE PAS. Tex.. July 3. A :
large body of Mexican cavalry rode j
into nearas ivegras. Mexico, eany to
night The outposts on the American I
side of the river, several companies of j
the newlv arrived Vermont and Kan-'
sas guardsmen, took stations north of
the town alongthe river bank. The
remainder of the guardsmen were or
dered not to leave camp.
RAILWAYS REFUSE DEMANDS.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
ST. LOUIS, July 3. The Missouri
Pacific Railway Company today re
fused to grant any of the demands
submitted bv the Brotherhood ot-
Maintenance of Wsy employes or to
arbitrate the matter. Secretary of
Labor Wilson was asked by union of
ficials to send two commissioners to
mediate.
GREAT IT
FOUfSTiF
JUl
Rick AnA Warf-MV District !
" . "IT "
Promise 1 0 Uefebrate 3lOre ; Under the new plan the ISO" mile commander.
fnmnlMflv Arid Whole, frontier will be divided so that the' A message went to General Persh
yoiiijjicvcjjr . .hthern and western military depart-' ing today asking if e desired to as-
nearieaiv luaiibYct uciuie
; . ;
fDCAT PROGR"M IS i rsepectlvely. Major Frederick Funs-
unLn V ) ..Jton relieved from responsibility for
rtiM fl 11 r.iari in. ut 1 :
Work Of Various - Commit-
tees Will See Culmination
Today In The Variety Of
Events
t With the martial spirit strong in
j the American mind with the possi-;
biiity of war with .Mexico staring the.
, ordinary man straight in the face
with the hue and cry of "adequate .
; preparedness" ringing throughout the
jland, Bisbee and the Warren District,
this morning, wakes to partake of that
I celebration 'jf preparedness July 4,'
j1 The emblem of the nation, flared on
OUUVIllg, Oil nuuun, Uli uuiwu Bt"i .
every conceivable manner and shape,
"t to speak 'jf "the gVand old rag" ;
wnU.h nmkes every American's heart!
.quicken and his pride swell, dresses t
i every nook and corner of the Dis-'
tricL
It will be a Fourth of Fourths!
" daruiy possime lo nnaKie, .
probable comparison, and Fourtn
July since that memorable occasion in
1898 when Ameru . eelbtos
""T fonuuesi oi au in prrpur.-u i,uiir u... ........ -
i ..... Hxf..t fnrr.nri ma W.peneral nnri five i-nlnli-
ean iiunuu. .iu; omw, .
!nnv vears. had the At erlcan people
-. . ' , .. .
entered into me one i u,
year with a xest, a uoiehM finest ,
or a sincere regard for
which Dertains to the
everything
Stars and
ets int'j the heavens. For many years
-o - - -
the Fourth of July seems to have de-.
teriorated into a commercial occasion.
The mind of the every-day. however.
is awakened. Self assurance. In the
lareer celebration 'this year promises'
be handled and to be participated
in as it has never been before. The;actfve charge of the national guard
j god of defense, to the god of prepar-
Mars.
Proximity to tne .nex t-n
1 1 I ....... I . tl.n Innal lUIAnlll fl .
wholesome lesson. It has opened the ; Lionel Dodd r
--Poiteeye to facts and JJIZl
...1 t,n ndiinla tn a H t IT.'P U'tlU'h
; has been rare before. 1 ne spirit o..
, the occasion is fPParent. Its more
"! . v1" .;
nit cm, uut.
j mind patrpJtism which will be cel -
, ebrated today.
j The committees in charge of tne
' bis affair have worked overtime and.
that has not been in vain, as the
j Pvents f the day promise to prove,
. Every detail has been attended tto.
from the opening gun to the closing
i minute. It has been thoroughly at -
! tended to and the realization will,Crua expeoiu..... -
iSSSTrSlT h,Ve Wrked '"'cTownsley has Just con,
great praise. . Atv sunenntend-
Bisbee and the Warren uistnci pieten ' ",r, Mil trv Acade
streets. last evening were alive with; rat or the West Point M""",0".
..i fnr the hie daT ' niv and Is on leave. Doth n ennd ii
thnrnnL-hfares were crowd -
'ed. Everv structure had its decora -
Uions and the wmie was intensely in-
' vlEorating ana represeiuanvr.
! ' The program, for today. Is as fol-
1 lows:
Continued on Paee 51
i
UncfcSArSg
into 3 Mobile rorces
R,..,i-v L-aeed W:r. General Franklin Bell, commanding
i WASHINGTON. Julv 3. While the the western department, mill transfer
' diplomatic aspects of the Mexican dif- hi? headquarters from San Frauds")
: flculty showed no change today, war , to Douglas. Arizona, to be in direct
department measures for a new di-. touch fcitt his f-hare o(, .the border
position of the border patrol clearly wenc.
indicated that months of active ser-j Pershing Gets Department
1 vice aong the frontier await the thou-, The mid-section ot the border line.
'. aunds of national guardsmen gather- embracing El Paso and a point near
ing in the south from all parts of the bouglaa. and reaching northwajd to
country. Only the appointment of a the Colorado state line, will be
general officer to supreme command known hereafter as the department of
Is lacking now to complete administra New Mexico. Under its jurisdiction
tive machinery not only for border' will fall the expedition into Mexico.
1 operations but for a campaign of any ; based at Columbus. X. M., and Briga
i -desired proportions in Mexico, should j : dier General J. J. Pershing, now com-
general hostilities come.
Bell To Douglas
menls will take care of the er.stern
ad wt.stern extremeties of the line
tne entire uoraer ai ins own rccom-,
I mendation will continue with the
southern department while Major'
Brigadier General
Mills Be
comes Major General; Col
onel Dodd Advances; Doz
ens Of Captains Go Up
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON', July 3. Promo-
l'?
ganlzat on act. by hie h Bwrfw-r
Oen, ILM I , lief of
...... - --
els will become, brigadier-generals.
, i....k c.. I..
-y y
President Wilson,
The colonels chosen for promotion
are: Charles G. Morton. Filth infan-
to De colonc's. Jl majors to be lieu
utr u...... . ---
tenant-colonels. 21 captains to pe ma -
org at first lieutenants to be captains
an(j 09 second lieutenants to be first
iieutenants. ,
, .,,. Hiiinn In Sentember,
,,., j , .illlt rni)citv has had !
artiUeiv expert at present, is at
j Oklahoma. His service dates
; d hs wi b(t retirP(i next
now on duty in Aiexi-
de attention by his
dash at Guerrero last .Mann,
PROMOTED
ft gmrf8sflll action!, vaftt ,.,,, of U1IS, ,
gunpr,or for(.p of bandit9 af- bBSp Tnp w)I(lipr wi
ter nde of 5.1 mii,-s m n ,r
1 . nromnt inns for cnlls n try a t a nu-I
j Philippines He is S3',
I"0- ,,d retires July'lS next.
, ye"re . vears of service Col. j
During ni ' V . s, ,nn,pnts I
Plummer has filled mnya si
throng hoi it t .e vv si bravery j
: oimuended for P"'"'"110" '"rp .
at an iag "'" '"" . tn Vpra
! Philippine can paign and the era
! onel Plummer retire In Septemoer,
, 1919
PERSHING BASE
NOT EVACUATING
Vir f. Rr.nrterl To South
Vlllistas Keported IO OUln
Of Colonia Dublan. May
Invite Trouble
(By Review Leased Wire.)
COLUMBUS. N. !.. July 3. Anv
'nouncement was made today that Ma
jor C. S. Farnsworth. commanding me
expeditionary base here, will hold a
field Inspection later in the week of
the First New Mexico Infantry and the
connnH Massachusetts infantry .the
j militia units on station in this dis-
III I I.
Reports fro"i
the field Indicated
that no general northward movement
of troops bad begun. Military author-
lities hera believed such uiovemept
Improbable especially in n" hit
recent reimrta ef the presence ef Vil -
listas south of Colonia Publan.
j manaing me expeuiimuarY iuht, m
r . J v. . .1 i.i i t
; sume tne duties ot aepanmeni cniei
, in addition to those which now fall to i
him. as commander In the field, 1 De
expedition is believed to have about
rnmpieiru me muirmrui .
days or more ago, wnen general
(Continued on Page 2)
MORE WOUNDED
TROOPERS
FOUND
MEXICO CITY. July 3. Gen
eral Trevino reported tonight
to the war department that a
number of wounded American
soldiers, who belonged to de-
tachments in the fight at Car-
rizal. have been found in dif-
ferent parts of the state of
Chihuahua and that they were
being turned to the American
side as soon as encountered.
No Fireworks Or
n if ;
O&llgames;
Or Red Lemonade
p0f
Pershing's Men; Dust Only
Is Their Joyous Lot
(By Review Leased Wire.)
FIELD HEADQUARTERS. Mex.
i ---
1 July 3. via Radio to Columbus. July 3.
, The Fourth of July will be cele-
, bra ted by General Pershing's army in
tlle simplest and sanest way.
At noon, from the general down to
in iin n nn n n
is nu bLuniuua;
FOURTH FOR ;
ARMY BOYS i
the humblest mule driver of the thous-! point to within three miles of Pe
ands of men will stand at atlenion : ronne.
facing the flag while scores of bugles . Meanwhile, the British, moving
will sound "To the Colors." On the Iott but over a longer front, have
last note the motionless olive-clad ; raptured Iji Bulselle, where the fight
fighting men will spring to life in a , ins for the l;st two days has teen of
simultaneous salute lo the Stars andlfhp fi-rcest chsracter. The British
i Tll(, jjej games that ordinarily are
.DDreciated but there Is not a single
b ph u or oat at thP front.
Tn ar(, no hUni cartridges for
I fifing a salute and firecrackers are
; .abomMj.
j ra(ny season has not yet put in
,ts a.,pParance and today the wind
throtisn tne
ill welcome
, cood, hut7 ,,..
LABOR URGES
EVERY EFFORT BE
HADE FOR PEACE
Gompers And Mexican Rep-
resentatives Say Crisis Is:
Due To "Misunderstand-i
ing' Somewhere
(Bv Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. July 3 An appeal
the United Slates and Mexico to do
(everything possible to avoid war was
! issued tonight by a joint committee of
officials of organized labor in the two,
irmintrp wlli,.n na9 Dpn , nessinn ,
here It Is sungested that a eomnns-
slon of Mexicans and Americans be
appointed to adjust
existing differ
ences. which are declared
dn. i.
. , . . . f I...
adenuate or incorrect information." amly ss to almost tall asleep at tneir
The labor leaders announced that ; cms and when there was a slignt re
while thev honed to hold another con- cession of the firing they slept amiast
ference at which the work of the two i the thunders of the '''
committees should be more generally New Mortar Deadly.
represented, they had decided to post -
pone It until the present crisis had
riasaed The appeal was signed by
nasaed. The appeal
President Samuel Gompers. Seretary
Frank Morrison. Treasurer John 11
j Leonon and tbe eieht vice presidents
of the American Federation, sod I .
Loveir. Baltaztr Pages. I. N. Mar-
and Edmun
, now. o.
1 do E. Martinez, for th
8 organized
' worners ot .Mexico.
6ERMANR ARE
SWEPT BACK
inn rn nu
ALLIES
' Twelve Thousand Teutons
i T-b r :..- r i
IOACU VpUTC VIJ ICIUUJI
Front As Whole
Villages
Fall To Ententes
GERMANS STEM
BRITISH ADVANCE
! New British Mortar Gun And
i
Hundreds Of Aeroplanes
Play Havoc With Teuton's
Advanced Trenches
(By Review Leased Wire.)
PARIS. July 3. The French, ad
vancing to the east of Mereaucourt
wood, have captured the Chapitre
wood and the village of Feuilleres.
Further to the south Asseviller-s baa
bet-tt taken by an infantry assault, ac
cording to un official statement issued
by the of!c tonltl-.t.
South of Aiwvlllere the French
have taken the second line of German
enirencmiienis as lar as me onismns
of Estreen and have advanced beyond
th serontl Gi-rrnpn line, where they
h.-ve captured the Tillage of Buscourt
and Flaucouit.
1
GAIN THREE MILES.
1 LONDON, July X Som
than three n ilcs was t
Something mora
hits gained.
I which added to previous gains,
the French tnmps as clear adv
give
a nee
of about six miles at the furthest
Ml"io renort
substantf-il progress in
4itrl Ihu rrtnlw. nf mam
Bome places
! k,,cv frnn, so"ie of the positions
J which thev had taken early Monday
: r,rning. and it is evident that the
! or- artillery fire has become
miirh henvier thn during the earlier
stages of the battle.
, 12 30 German Prisoners. .
The prisoners taken bv the British,
so ftr. number -::oo. while the French
have caxtnred S0o or nore. The war
! material tak-n bv the French include
' Meven batteries, three of large calibre,
'many machine guns and trench suns
I Oilier batteries in casements also fell
t into the hands of the French.
' p.vnnd admitting the withdrawal
E;
of d'fi"i front the'r f'rst Iin- trench
the Nomine, the German ofhcial
ement makes meager reference to
the battle now in progress.
Fiahting Slackens.
The Verdun operations apparently
are slackening, although t certain
rarr.ed out but the infantry are rest;
Hundreds of Birdmen.
Aerial activities are incraUng la
connection with tn- DSTtie ni .-imuuk-.
hundreds of machines being ensaeed
bv directing the
BUns and fiKhting. In the three uyw
.itn-!ienient. the British have lost is
machines.
The Russian war office rep..r .
capture of S3.ni prisoners in
i oils sectors ot nifw"-'" ...... .
heavy fighting at ruanv point.
- i All reports emnnasu- - i.r........
nt..r of the nrttisn wnniwu
' . I, . , Di.n
I.
oners worked so inres-
; Great importance is " -
newly Invented mortsr. which plays
havoc In the German trenches. Alr-
craft are talcing an ininonnni
Thus fr the new offensive appears
Thus fa rthe. new offensive appears
to have hd little influence tn
battle around Verdun. Tbe Geruiau
are still "showing nndiminiUl viger
in the Meuse region and th French
are as steadily resisting-
