PSSSSwfSS55
y'rpyt(n?,jr&''':- Wlm
i
.ma-.
WJf-
-, "afiwwsp,-
, ' ' ' " ' ' ' ' . . ,
Hie WavM&gfxm Wimeg
WEATHER FORECAST!
Partly Cloudy Today
(Full Report on Page Two.),
HOME
EDITION
WASHINGTOK, TUESDAY SYBXHrO, JULY 4, 1916.
PBICK ONrfOBNT.
tf TJMBEE 8951.
CARRANZA REPLY
HERE; IS "PACIFIC
AND TEMPERATE"
Wilson Helps to Dedicate
TEN-MILE WEDGE
Labor Men's New Temple;
IS THRUST DEEPER
In Sveech Urges Patience INTO GERMAN LINE
i 7
i I
u
i
Mexican Embassy Officials Assert It Has
Averted "Possibility of War Between
The Two Nations" Will Be
Delivered Tomorrow.-
URGES MEDIATION OR NEGOTIATION
Written By First Chief Himself, It Does Not
Renew Demand For Recall of Troops,
But Suggests Their Presence Is
Source of Trouble.
Carranza's reply to the last American demands ra tem
perate document which it is said will avoid a break reached
the Mexican embassy today.
Those close to the Mexican ambassador-designate said
the note was written by Carranza himself and that it averted"
possibility of war between the two nations. ,
The note came in during the nigrjt. It will be delivered
to Secretary Lansing tomorrow morning.
In brief, the note is a proffer of the olive branch, sug
gesting either mediation or direct negotiation for a settle
ment of differences between the two countries.
It relates the fact that Mexico already has accepted the
principle of mediation, in an announcement at Mexico City
some days ago. Then it asks that the United States describe
its view of mediation. ' . "
But, regardless of whether this nation is agreeable to
mediation, Carranza asks if it is not possible then for the
two countries to get together through direct negotiation.
According to the brief announcement from the em
bassy, the reply contains nothing about the recent order
supposedly given to General Trevno by General Carranza
to fire upon United States troops.
ADMITS BORDER OFFENSE
ft fe-'-fn;h3ttmNlmM'yu
HlMarJKHB
aLLKl'LLLH
eH" aaaaaH
K''-HaksaH
President and Hit Secretary of
Labor Review Parage of Or
ganized Labor.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE APPLAUDS
Mrs. Wilton, the Vloe President
and Mrs. Marshall Also on
Reviewing Stand.
Otioto by Amrrlran Prrwi Aooclatlon).
WILLIAM B. WILSON,
Secretary of Labor.
CAPITAL EDUCATOR
I
URGESWAR
RAINING
Dr. rhall Replies to Taft Peace
talk Before Teachers of
Country .
NEW YOJtK. July 4.-The merry lUMe
war between the militarists and the
After mors than 10,000 union work
hid marched past the reviewing Hand,
built at the threshold of the edifice,;
President Woodrow Wilson and hla Sec
retary of Labor, William n. Wilton, as
sisted In the dedication at noon today
of the new temple of the American Fed
eration of Labor.
The singing of the "Btar-Bpangled
Danner" nnd "America," the waving of
countless flag, the patriotic alra of
many band., and -the speeches of the
orators of the day lent a fourth of July
touch to the dedication and gave labor's
holiday a double meaning.
The march up Pennsylvania, avenue,
thence by Fifteenth street to K and
thence to the sits of the new building
n Ninth and . Massachusetts avenue,
was a spectacle beflttlngly staged by the
representatives of the labor unions.
Wilson Advises Patience .
President Wilson, who began his
speech at 12:80, said that patience
candor, and a desire to get together
constitutes the solution of all difficulties
of this country.
"The easiest way," he said, "and the
way we generally strive for right in
getting our righting spirit up. If you
come -at me witn fist up I ven j
lure 10 say mini win uouoiv as
quk'Uy n yours, but If wj told com
mon counsel together have patience
and candor and a desire for co-operation,
we can get together."
The President delivered this message i
to 10.000 laboring men and Women who
stood in a broiling sun as the r resident
spoke.
"In a position such as I occupy at
this time. ' the President, said, ,I am not
at liberty to think of any one clsss or
classes of people."' to the exclusion of
other classes. Hence I am going to
take the liberty of dedicating this build
ing to common council and common un
derstanding." '
The Usual "SofT.-
As the President concluded these
words a young woman, who gave her
name aa Mabel Vernon, of Nevada, rose
from a chair In the grandstand and
aaV'MwlV
sRspm
TvrPaTaTaaVaTsMzr saBl
mgm
m&bX VJaBBBBBBBai
I liBaWBBBBBBBBBBBBi
IBBBBBBBBBWT) ZV BBBBBBBBBBBBBBbBIbBBBBBBBBBBBBBbW
Anglo:French Forces Now Hold Foe's Second
Line Positions On Great Curve Along
Somme -More Villages On Road
To Peronne Taken.
KAISER'S FORCES TAKE LA BOISELLE
Terrific Bombardment By British and French
Shatters Thiepval Germans Still Hold
Town After Hand to Hand Fighting.
Verdun Attack Renewed.
Coprlrht. Harrli-Ewlnf.
SAMUEL GOMPERS,
President American Federation of
Labor.
GIRL
F
QUND
DEAD
RICH YOUTH HELD
Orphan Who Sought White
Lights to Escape Loneliness
Lies Unclaimed in Morgue.
..i n,ni).ri.i. in ih. it v a wntiwavln woman suffrage banner,
anti-militarists In the -. .. A., went my.n,,teJ. .... -in-,iv w.nt mmmnr
NEW VOKK. July i-'ine story of a
little orphan girl who came to a Dig
Carransa frankly admits that border
conditions have been n source of offense
to the United States, but he points out
that the presence of American troops on
Mexican soil has not improved the sit
uation. It Is understood he makes no
demands that the American forces with
draw, though he holds, as previously,
that the presence of the force Is un
necessary. Carranza did not refer to the fact that
the United States has vastly strengthen
ed Its boundary guard by the addition
of militia, though it Is believed here this
move had much to do with the pacific
tone 'he employed.
The note, said to be about 3,000 words
In length, arrived by cable. Ambassa
dor Arredondo left the city with his of
ficial staff early today for a picnic, con
vinced that his chief had taken a long
step toward solving difficulties between
the two countries.
Arredondo Will Present It.
Arredondo personally will present
the note to Secretary of State Lan
sing tomorrow morning, and it prob
ably will not be made public before
that time, though It was said It was
possible It would be given cut to
night. In making the announcement, the
embassy said, that It was "pacific and
temperate," and expressed the view
that President Wilson, In accord with
his announced desire for peace will
surely find the way clear, either to
accept mediation or to the direct ne
gotiation proposed.
The Bcllvlan minister, it Is thought,
will see Secretary Lansing soon after
Arredondo, as he Indicated several
days ago he would oner a formal med
laton proposal, The United States re
jected Informal suggestions, holding
that the time was not ripe until it
had heard frcm Carranza,
Diplomats thought the United States
would accept one of the two proposals
offered by Carransa In view of the
lattor's evident determination to
avoid hostilities.
Man Shoots Self
With Mirror's Aid
Using a small pocket mirror to ac
complish his purpose with precision,
an unldetnWed white mon ended his
life by sending a bullet through his
brain, on the lawn Just east of the
New National Museum, shortly be
fore noon today.
Sergeant Ddwards, of the park po
lice, was the first to reach the man s
71
fflBKS
IK
RETIRING TO
BORDER
Couriers Arriving at El Paso
Say Americans Are Planning
to Withdraw From Mexico.
I Hh.u4 is a, ail ii n ssi alir mtAnt MMnmnn ' t a ! .mi wk t lha whlta
on todav. with the antls looming uo as i ""E.V, '"" T." T'i" "". ..'.'." "V , C"X ,0 m" n" "".-"' ""?. ""I
ih. .,;;.,, faction. rr. wtilard. T'T ?"u "'.., '"'' ...7."' ."" .-1 . hts as an escape rrom , ,Dnenr.. ..
Small, of Washington, talked military amendment."
training to the teachers to overcome Th woman got no further. Police
William H. Toffs pence talk of yes-, crowded around" her airi threatened to
.... tk. mmtH.t. in .l.llvnr ' J her from i the stand while the
Urday. Tho militarists will dellvor
cr owoi
-.-.v. .down.'
shouted "shutup," and "sit
died arter a gay midnight party in trie
home of a wealthy youth was revealed
to the police today, while tho body of
"Teddy" MoberU lay unclaimed on a
morgue slab.
By ED. L. KEEN.
LONDON, July 4. The Anglo-French Jorces mafc
further progress in their great offensive in the past twenty
four hours and now hold practically the German second poiT
tion on a ten-mile curving front from Montaubon to the
village of Estres south of the Somme.
The Germans have shifted large bodies of reserves
from the north to the south bank of the Somme to defend the
railway town of Peronne. In an amazingly rapid series of
advances the French under General Fochs have captured
several villages held by the Germans and thrown their ad
vanced lines to within three miles of the outskirts of Pe-
ronne.
In seventy-twohotrrs of fighting the allies have, wrested
nearly fifty square miles of French territory from the Kais
er's hands.
How desperate is the fighting along the British front
was indicated in a headquarters dispatch today, revealing for
the first time that the British actually captured the strongly
fortified village of Thiepval, but were driven out.
SHELLS SHATTER VILLAGE.
ernwAji
rlnwn" I tu. ii nnlv nlnM'An vr Old. arm
preflont MaJ. Gen. J-eonard wood to At a word from thoee In the Precl 1 0f unusual txauty. wan found dead from
champion their causo. dnt'a party, however, the woman wm I n asphyxiation In the home or inar.ee
aide.
Marks
of Identification on either
th hnrtv nr th rlnnhlnir urn (nearer,
A laundry mark. "65 R. D" on the
victim's underclothing Is the one clue
on which the police base their hopes
of Identifying the man In event that
no frend or relative puts In an ap
pearance to solve his identity.
The man was about forry years old,
of medium build, had block hair and
mustache, ond wore a black suit of
clothes, strow hot, a dork tie, and
black shoes. The only thing found
In his pockets was a pair of eye
classes and a black bow tie. The
victim has prominent teeth, one of
EL PASO, Tex., July 4. Couriers ar
riving here from General Pershing's
base at Colonla Dublan believed the
American punitive expedition Is to be
withdrawn from Mexico.
Two regiments, the Seventh and the
Eleventh cavalry, are already en route
over the desert to tho border, the
couriers reported.
Military men hero said today they
credited the story from the front that
Pershing Is planning to withdraw but
declared It would take him thirty days
to make the evacuation of Mexico by
his army complete.
The unconfirmed report that with
drawal Is planned hardly dampened the
ardor of a tremendous welcome given
Independence Day at midnight. Regu
lars at Port Ullsn and several thou
sand Massachusetts mllltlsmen at
camps Cotton and Pershing shot away
no small amount of ammunition usher
ing In the Fourth.
Tho 4.7-Inch guns overlooking El
Paso and Juares boomed in unison.
Strict discipline was relaxed momentar
ily while tho soldiers burned red fire,
sent up rocKets ana set ore nrecracxers
by pocks. t
The rattle of small-arms and cratkers
continued throughout the day. The
celebration will wind up In a grand dlsT
play of fireworks under city auspices
tonight.
i
DEPLORES ABSENCE
OF VOTE IN DISTRICT
'It means political death for any
person-to take up residence here In
Washington," declared Chapln Drown,
the speaker of the day at the celebra
tion by the Association of Oldest In
habitants at the old Union Engine
House today. "Every rood leading to
Washington should hove a signpost
that would worn people, 'He who en
ters here leaves hope behind.' "
The theme of Mr. Brown's address
was the need of the proposed consti
tutional amendment admitting clti
sens of the District to voting privi
leges, and along the line of the
amendment proposed by the Chamber
of Commerce He urged that this
district be given right of representa
tion In the Electoral College, In the
House and In the Senate, In propor
tion to Its population and Inuence.
The first business before the associa
tion was the election of new members,
and the following were admitted:
Tom L. Wlltberger, Richard Oudgln.
Kmanuel Jackson, Joseph Herzog. Max
I.trcher. John William Palmer. Albert
I A. Gill. Thomas J. Stsnfin. Charles
Dr. Small said. In part:
"The purpose of military training In
the high school Is hot to turn out train
cd soldiers. It Is not to quicken the
martial spirit and make boys lovers of i
war. Tho purpose Is to capitalize the
ancient, fundamental, and Ineradicable
lighting Instinct, make of It a produc
tive educational Investment, and compel
It to yield dividends In physical and
moral discipline.
To secure these ends military training
must be so organized as to utilize three
marked adolescent tendencies; To play,
to compete, to co-operate. It must take
account of the physical character of
high school zoys. It must not be a
mere Imitation of the drill aspect of
regular army procedure. Military train
ing ana imuiary unit are iar iroin
synonymous.
Tn Dromote physical efficiency It must
require adequate examination of every
high school boy and It must provide
graded exercises. Military drill per so
has no developmental voiue. '
To promoto moral aiscipune there
must be group competition and group
co-oDeratlon. aPrtlclpatlon should 0
voluntary, not compulsory. Lieutenant
Bteever's "Wyoming- pian or group
competition In calisthenics, wall scaling,
target practice, troop leadership, schol
arship, etc., is excellent. The basic idea
Is oompctltlon botween groups of equal
ability. Success depends not upon the
superiority of selected Individuals the
weakness of our athletic competitions
but upon the earnest and loyal effort
of tho whole uroup.
Several hundred iirlm schoolmistresses
st un rather sMffly In their seats to
day and appeared grieved when Ed
ward Rynearson, n Pittsburgh head
master told them that they were virtu
ally social secretaries for tholr pupils.
It was noi 10 me lining or me sennnt
"marms" In attendance of Uio conven
tion of Notional Education Arsocla
tlon to be told that they were responsi
ble fr thHr pupils' "discovering tliem
lelves," for school teachers evidently
think they are not gunrdlans.
In fact, nynearson's frank talk rath
er shocked u few of them, and when
ha Honlt with "the awful common vice"
nnvtrnl femalp teachers found that they
hod other engacements to keep.
Russians Fail to Check
Germans in Volhynia
UKKL.1N, July ii, 'the Hussions made
unsuccessful attemnts to stOD the tier
man advance in Volhynia by attacking
lost night east and southeast of the
fortress of Lutzk, the war oftlce an
nounced today, ihe atacks were repulsed.
nermltted to rmaln provided
kept silent and the President, smiling tn Brooklyn
iea
tolerantly at the interruption, resum
speaking.
Order Marks Parade.
Order marked the progress of the pa-
she 1 c. Lister, wealthy commission merchant
in Brooklyn. Lister's twenty-one-year-
old son. William, who enicnoinea
.ir.jnn" nurtv or thre young men
and three girls. Including Miss Roberts,
while his parents were at their summer
home. Is under arrest on the charge or
the upper of which has a large sold Smith Bradley, Thomas Jarvla. Norman
PI
rolling
Landon King, and Alston C. wniuwr.
D.Mntui annlauae. and thern were
no more appreciative spectators along
(Continued on Fourth Page.)
Now You'll Get .
It in the Neck
Listen, Ye Men! Your Collar Will
Cost 15 Cents Straight Here
afterYes, the War.
rode. There was no contusion, ejicn n ,cl ar. n0, fuy a,ned, they
marchr man, woman, or child and Ml(l t0(jay, with young Lister's story
they were all there knew a part and i that he discovered the girl lead in two
played it. and enthusiasm took hold , yesterday morning after smelling gas
of the rank, of the tollers In the In- . mes coming from her room,
dustrlal arts. I Police Doubt Note.
President and Mrt. Wilson seemed They believe a "farewell" note found
thoroughly to enjoy the spectacle. The nenr her body la framed In a masculine
more attractive divisions recclve-l i hand, and the disordered condition ot
tho bedclothes In the rom in wnicn sne
died, they say. Indicates the possibility
of a struggle.
Detectives with difficulty located rel
atives of the girl at Johnstown. N. Y.
They learned that she came from a
good family, and that after her par
ents died she left for New lork to
study studv to become a nurse.
She was lonelv In New ork In her
search for cominlons she mode c
cuslntanees among chorus glrli. who
suggested that her beauty would make
It eosv for her to Rain employment on
the stage. She followed their sugens
tlons. gave up all thoucht of becomln?
a nurse, and became a rhorus girl at
the Hippodrome.
Said She Was Lonely.
Three weeks ago sho met young Lis
ter. He told the police that he flirted
with her in the subway. She told him
nh wan lonely, ond after several clan
destine meetings, he proposed tnnt sne
Join a gv party at Ms home after his
parents went awov for the summer.
Th nnriv hesan Bstutdav night, ana
continued throughout Sunday. Sunday
night, according to Lister, the two
other girls and youths left, but Miss
noberts decided to remain all night.
Lister sold the girl occupied a room
separate from him. and that he know
nothing of her death until he arose
Monday morning.
Militia Arm For
Battle After Wreck
Guardsmen Prepare to Fight When
Train Is Derailed Near Home
of 50,000 Mexicans.
OFFICIAL REPORTS
OF ALLIED DRIVE
German Troops Recapture La
Boiselle After Heavy Fight
ing, London Admits.
Nobody loves a fot man. not even
the collar manufacturer. Just now.
when the puffing, perspiring, short
necked, red-faced Individual Is wilt
ing collors by the gross and swelling
the laundry receipts beyond propor
tion, the manufacturers put their
feet on his neck and wrest more
money from him.
They have decreed mat mere snait
be no more two-for-a-quarter col
lars. Hereafter the price Is to be IB
cents apiece, whether you buy. .one.
or a dozen, ana me ,n" "
to all men fat. lean, and middle
" The' European war, having long ago
hit mere mon in the etomoch by run
nine food prices to new high levels,
hoi now hit him In the neck. For,
when asked the reason for the ad
vance In the price of collars, the
manufacturers make the laconic an
swer. 'The war."
Wages, they soy, hove bsen ad
vanced 10 per cent, bleaching materi
als hove soared, and linen and cot
ton have ''n for above the normal
soles figures. All of these effects
are attributed, to the European
struggle, notice oi me increase in
nricss ho ben received by local
dealers from all manufacturers.
LONDON, Juty 4. German troops
have recaptured a small portion qf the
village of La Boiselle, east of Albert.
In heavy flghtfng. It was officially an
nounced today.
The Germans attacked after the ar
rival of strong re-enforcements, Gen
eral Halg reported.
South of La, Boiselle the British made
further progress In last night's fighting, the Murne.
taking more war material and prisoners.
Near Armentlcres the Germans bom
barded British lines heavily nnd at
tempted a raid on Brltisn trenches, i no
attempt was repulsed.
One whole battalion of Germans sur
rendered in a bodr.
The battalion consisted ot tut men
ond officers of the lMh regiment
of Prussian Infantry. Rushing up to
fill the gaps, the entire battalion was
caught by n devastating fire upon the
shallow trenches behind which they
attempted to fight. They threw up"
their hands In tokep of surrender.
Tho concentrated Are of scores of
British guns pounded 1 hlepval to ruins
before the British advance began Sat
urday mornlntf. During Sunday's fight
ing n British detachment entered tho
village .tnd prepared to fortify Itself
behind the ruined bits of mnonry.
Late In tho afternoon several hundred
Germans suddenly clambered up from
the cellars nnd labyrinth of under
ijiound works of the village, uhore
tnev had remained In concealment, and
rtroc the British out b u surpilse at
tack. The Uctmans still retain Thiep
val. which wib under a terrific bom
birUment nil dav yesterday.
All Indication today weie that tho
French would uclilee the first striking
bucceas of the otlenulvo movement by
the cupture ot Periinn. unites Ucrmhn
le-enforcementH check Geneiul Foch'a
advance, lno Kicnoh forces squth of
tlje so.-rm.o uic tUhtlnu UKe demons
und huo fought their way through Xor
tllled villages, and Uerman defensive
positions ot the gieatest strength.
With I'cionne lit the hands of tho
French und tho liiltlah exerting powar
fui pressure northwest of the town, tho
tli.fnuma villi fm ., fliplr sravcst deleft-
bivp problem since they retired from
Free Dinner in Kansas.
OSWEGO, Kan,. July 4. A fre dinner
the kind served here fifty years ago
will be one of the features, of the semi
centennial celebration to bo here today
and tomorrow. Beans, bacon, and corn
bread will be Included tn the menu.
Rejected, Ends Life.
COLD SPRING, N. Y.-August B. Mut
ter was so despondent after he hod been
rejected for enlistment because of phys
ical ekxects that he committed suldds.
Today's Game. ..
.A
FulT'ftory of. the morning gkme
'today at the Florida avenue
grounds between the Washing
ton and New York teams will
be found on the sporting page
of this Issue of The Time
Frencjii Official Report.
Germans Fear Big Drive
May Be Decisive of War
AMSTERDAM tln 1-ondon). July 4.
Thu Ix-gliiiiinK of the Ynrlo-French of
fensle Id utinnunced by tho Gorman
pre.es unt'.ei hea headlined '
"From the Ki'at Chmnparne battle of
last AuuiiHt," siyrt the C'olonge Gazette.
"wo know tho Imposing pieparatlona
with which tho French general stuff in
troduces such fiitnrpt Ises, und wo can
be ceitnlu that rn the enemy's side
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., Juty 4. Na
tional guardsmen are taking no chances
aa they draw near the border.
"When several cars of troop-trains
were derailed neftr here yesterday the
troopeis were immediately supplied with
ball cotrldges and prepared for a pos
sible fight. "
Word Of the fact that San Antonio
was the some of 60.0CH Mexicans spread
rapidly among the troopers, so, prepared
for battle, they 'wilted for several hours
before the train was placed on the
tracks aaaln.
On thousand and fifty-one men of
th Ssventh Illinois Iitfantry, under th
command of Col. Daniel Moriorlty, hart
gon Into camp at fort 8am Houston.
PARIS. July 4, Neither tho French
nor the Germans made any Infantry at
tacks along the French front north and
south of the Sommo last night, the war
office announced this afternoon.
"North ond south of tho Somme tho
night was calm," it was officially stated.
"There was no Infantry attack.
"It has been established that the booty
captured by the French In the recent
gflhtlng Is of the greatest Impqrtanci,
Including three new German batteries.
"On the Verdun front six German at
tacks were repulsed."
Of the three German batteries cop
tured by the French, two are of heavy
caliber.
The war office commented today upon
the precision of the French artillery Are
In the offensive movement on both sides
of tho fomme.
"In a single shelter forty cadavers
were found," It was ststed. "In a ra
vine north of Assevlllers and on tho
Herbecourt slopes the German losses
were frightful."
North of Frlse, another German cap
tive balloon wos'tlred and destroyed by
French flyers last night.
"Between the Avre and thn Alsno.
French reconnaissances penetrated the
first-line German trenches and commu
nicating trenches," said the official
statement. "Some prlrnners were
taken.
"On Um Verdun front a German at
(Contlnued on Second i'ago.)
nnihinf u ill w, inrkltii; ns rccurda tech
nical ino-ins for pieicliiK our line. For
seen iltijs artillery fire was poured
over oui treiichew and our brave troops
must luwe greeted It as a deliverance
when -it tin t the enemy storming col
umiiH cunie on. . .
w' ulmitlil not ln ripretved by the
fact that tne oiieiny reports already
p-ak of groat successes. Only within
th niM tew days will It bo possible
to iiscrrtnlr. how far the general atUCK
has hi ought tho encm."
The Colnnpo VMIcsreltung refers to
the difficulty of holding th foremoatGer
nmii tienclirt. in the face of tho enor
mous energy of the attack, but notes
that the iittncklim forces havo not yet
rtticceedrd lit plciclng tho Gennan fronu
"Although Geimuny confronts tho
cmltm battle with confidence' says
this newspaper, 'nevertheless the mo
ment If without doubt fiauoht with sig
nificance nnd Is perhaps decisive,"
"Tho niigllflli mni) In France.," It
continues, Is irong and well equipped,
F.nglnud'H Industry, lifter it w-ns or
gantred for the war, Iibh scored great
3c!i!ovemntn In the manufacture or
Riinsi nnd shells, und, thus prepared. It
oeltcvs It .an now nt last 'Oln In lno
wer dnnco' on the soil of northern
France. An icpauls the military flt
n8s of the Vlnnlloh troops it hay now
in opportunity to show what It Is."
Berlin Expects Retreat.
rnpRNHAOKN. July 4. Berlin dls.
patches hinted thut the Germans aro
preparing f n u fm lier retirement bo
foro tho Anglo-French offensive, but de
claied thai no onu In Ucrlln considers
the situation at all desperate.
All German correspondents report that
the allies probably have at their dis
posal tho greatest supply of ammunition
ever massed behind any army,
