What is Best for Maui
is Best for the News
If you wish Prosperity
Advertise in the News
VOLUME XXII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. IT., FRIDAY, JANUARY 2. 1910.
NUMBER 49.
WILSON SAYS LIBERTY
AND HONOR IN PERIL
President Begins Stumping Tour For Prepared
ness. Berlin Says Suez Canal Now
Menaced. Severe Fighting Contin
ues Japan Denies Coertion Plan.
WASHINGTON, January 28. Department of justice has made
selection for a man to succeed McCarn. Official investigation may come
to investigate charges made against personal acts of Acting District
Attorney Vaughan.
NEW YORK, January 28. President makes opening prepared
ness speech in this city last night. "Preparedness plan must go through
at once. I have lcen a constant peace advocate and have struggled dur
ing past months to keep America out of war, hut have reached the point
where I must consider that the threatened liherty and honor of the
nation arc now more important than peace," is statement made.
WASHINGTON, January 28. United States, stung to wrath hy
the loss of official letters through British action, sends strong protest
to foreign office, denouncing steps taken hy London authorities. Sec
retary Lansing calls the latest move against the important of contra
hand, an unwarranted interference with neutral rights.
Senator Clark, champion of Philippines independence hill, thinks
that Japan will rule Filipinos, lie thinks Japanese domination o f in
sular possessions dcsirahle.
BERLIN, January 28. Artillery of enemy yesterday shelled Ger
man positions in sand hills of Flanders seacoast. At same time enemy's
monitors shelled west end district, hoth attacks heing without effect.
PEKING, January 28. 3000 of Yuan's troops defeat rehcls in
Moody hattle fought in province of Yunan.
DURANGO. January 28. Great drove of deer, wolves and moun
tain lions, driven from Rockies hy blizzard, invade settlement district
in search of food.
NEW YORK, January 28. President Wilson yesterday ahsolutely
refused to lend aid for national suffrage. He told delegation of wo
men to appeal to their own state.
CHICAGO, January 28. Lahor union men throughout country
today are giving one hour of pay for relief of memhers of Danhury
hatters' union, who have been ordered by the Supreme court of the
United States to pay a large sum for
of years ago.
PEKING, January 28. Japanese government has made no de
mands on China regardless of rumors.
WASHINGTON, January 28.
senate, say they pray on Sunday and
BERLIN, January 27. According report here Suez canal is now
menaced by Turco-German forces. Even though it is strongly forti
fied and large bodies of troops are stationed in vicinity. British in
south Arabia arc in a dangerous position as result of attacks by Arabs
atid Turks, who are largely officers and equipped by Germans, says a
report from Cairo to the Cologne,
protecting the Suez Canal is emperiled by the success of tribesmen in
trapping the British forces sent to
West front fighting is more
fighting at long range and maneuvers by the aviators, 3 lines of French
trenches have been captured at Neuv.elle. Progress has been made
south of Arras through mining and
PARIS, January 27. France's
today in a statement by M. Lonquct, a French socialist member of the
chamber of deputies. He said that 800,000 have been killed and a mil
lion and a half wounded, and 300,000 taken prisoners. A dispatch to
the Paris Matin from its Rome correspondent, says that San Giovanni
Dnmcdua, Albania, was evacuted 10
trian attacks. The gun removed
soldiers sent to Durazzo.
ROME, January 27. It is
F.mperor Franz Josef, of Austria-
is growing rapidly worse.
TOKIO, January 27. Japanese
report from London that Japan has
ing 7 of the demands made last spring which China refused tt comply
with.
SHANGHAI, January 27. Yuan Shih Kai has asked for ieace
with the revolutionists, through his delegates at a meeting at Peking
yesterday afternoon.
HONOLULU, January 27.
jump this year. Those for Hawaii
duction. Schools responsible for
Amelia and Philip Pacheco taken to emergency hospital yesterday
liom Puuloa suitering from elfects of explosion of detonating caps.
BERLIN, January 27. Dispatch from Athens says court prose
cutor of Greece has been ordered
formr premier Venezelos on charges
BROWNSVILLE, January 27.
soldiers trom ureasers who captured field artillerymen while swim
ming, and later poured bullets into
during the dispute. General Funston
tor crossing border. V igorous investigation is to follow.
WASHINGTON, January 27.
is report. Given free hand in Orient by European allies, Japan has
revived 5 claims for social privileges in China. Resources of Fukien
are coveted by rsipponese. Washington is most interested in this pro
vince and originally objected to any aggression.
LONDON, January 27. Entente blockade of central powers is t
be maintained. France navy will
of teutonic allies.
lOKlO, January 27. Opposition is growing stronger against
Count Okuma. Division in house
SAN FRANCISCO, Tanuary
1911 for dynamiting and attempted
yesterday.
the hoycot of employers a number
Makers of munitions arraigned in
sell death during the week.
oiks Zcitung. British territory
patrol the region.
active and there is much artillery
sapping operations.
huge loss in the war was suggested
davs ago in anticipation of an Aus
to Brendisi, Italy, and the Serbian
reported at the Vatican today that
is very seriously ill at Vienna, and
foreign office denies today that the
delivered to China a note embody
Oahu and Kauai tax rates will take
and Maui show a substantial re
main increase here and on Kauai
to commence proceedings against
ot treason.
Army officers lead squad and take
rescuers. Four Americans lose live
placed army officers under arres
Tokio renews demands on Pekin
cooperate with British in blockad
of peers may force his resignation
27. Dr. W. F. Burke, sentenced i
murder, was pardoned by Governor
Relief Work Being
Most Ably Handed
ood and Clothing Furnished To All
Sufferers Problem Of Permanent
aid Now Being Worked Out.
The Walluku district relief commit-
top, which has been working; strenu;
ously during the past week in relicv-
ng the suffering caused by the storm,
has expressed its thanks to the com
munity for the many donations that
ave been made. At the present time
all necessary clothing has been sup
plied and there is plenty on hand for
he immediate future. The commit
ee is now studying the problem of
permanent rehabilitation, for those
who have lost everything, and this is
proving to be the most puzzling part
of the whole relief work. As soon as
some decision is worked out in this
connection, an announcement, will Tie
made, and funds will be asked as may
seem to be indicated.
The committee has found a total of
8 cases needing assistance Includ-
ng a tolal of 215 persons. In Its first
id work, 292 pieces of clothing have
men distributed, and orders'Vor food
given amounting to $601. No cash
has been given to any of the re
fugees. This list does not include Japanese,
who have been well looked after by
the Japanese community. It is re
ported that 180 cases of this nation
ality have receive assistance.
The Japanese have now made their
committee a subcommittee of the gen
eral relief organization, and in addl-
ion to N. K. Otsuka, C. D. AkimoH
has been added to thi scommittee.
The committee has handled all plan-
ation eases, and for these account is
being rendered to the plantations in
terested. The staff of the Alexander
House Settlement has been fully oe-
upied with the work, and the Salva
tion Army, through Ensign Puck, has
rendered most valuable service.
Two Insane Persons
Taken to Asylum
Kehuluna I'alu, an insane Ilav.'ai-
an of the Haiku district, with a sulci
dal mania, was on Wednesday adjud
ged insane in the local district court
and committed to the insane asylum
Pain had a nasty cut across his tcmp-
e which he hd inflicted several weeks
ago in an effort to kill himself, it is
said.
Mrs. Annie Chung Lung, a young
part-Hawaiian woman of Makwao,
was also adjudged insane this week,
in the Makawao district court, and to-
geher with Palu was- tken to Honolu
lu on Wednesday's Claudinc where
she will be placed in the asylum. The
unfortunate woman had been causing
much alarm in her neighborhood re
cently through her insistance in going
about armed with a nasty-looking dag
ger. She han made threats aginst her
children, and there was grve fear that
she would kill them if not removed.
New Auto Law Is
To Soon Be Tested
More than one hundred owners of
automobiles have thus far failed to
register thei rmachines under the new
ordinance, which went into effect Jan
uary 1, according to Sheriff Crowell.
The time has been extended for do
ing this until the 31st, and the
sheriff's ofiice will be open up to 7
p. m. on that day for receiving regis
trations, an dthen steps are to be
taken to enforce the law. It is un
derstood that the new law is to be
contested as soon as au arrest is
made for its violation, which will pro
bably be some time next week.
CLIFTON, January 25. Strike of miners ends with a compromise
agreement. Men and companies arrange settlement.
HONOLULU, January 25 Messages from Washington hring the
report Princess Kawananakoa's condition is much worse. Message
from her physicians says no complications.
CHICAGO, January 25. Minnie Werner, stenographer, seeking
Heath, dove into a load of paper l.oxcs from 16th story. Made dive
head first, but physicians say she will live. No internal injuries found.
QUEENSTOWN, January 25. Steamer Pomeranian, outbound
from Glasgow to Canada, is reported to have lost rudder in gale in St.
George Channel. "
LONDON, January 25. Government measure providing for modi
fied conscription, passes house of commons.
WASHINGTON, January 24. Administration's preparedness
program to be urged strongly in congress. Other legislation must make
way for it. Consideration on measure expected.
LONDON, January 24. Dispatch from Athens says negotiation
for loan to Greece by entente powers progessing. Greece will arrange
loan. Point of danger of break liable through Constantinople. Com
plaints for Allies opprcsion of country.
PARIS, January 24. Rome dispatch says grave anxiety in Vien
na over Franz Joseph. Said to be ill of chorine bronchitis and confined
to bed.
(Continued on Pae Five.)
30 Inches Of Rain
In Three Days Time
Rain Sage In lao Tells Story of Cloud
burst That Carried Death and
Destruction Down Valley. Most
Probably In Few Hours.
Thirty indies Qf rain fell in
three dsiys on the table-lands of
lao Valley, (elevation ICOO feet)
at the time of the big Hood last
week. This was ascertained by
C. T. Bailey, of the hydrogra
phic survey, who had visited the
rain gage just, before the big
storm, and again afterwards.
The water in the gage must
have accumulated on Monday.
Tuesday and Wednesday of last
week, and the bulk of it prob
ably fell on Monday night and
early Tuesday morning, just pri
or to the tremendous rush of
water down the stream, which
came with such suddenness that
a dozen lives were lost and
scores of others had narrow es
capes. Some indication of how terri
fic must have been the down
pour in the upper part of the
valley, may be gained when it
is remembered that the heavy
rains in Wailuku during the
whole week ending noon June
20. amounted to but 12.42 in-,
dies. Probably not less than a
foot and a half of water was'
precipitated into the narrow
pocket of the upper valley dur
ing Monday night, a week ago,
to flow out almost instantly in
an overwhelming torrent.
Typewriter Wizard
Amazes Maui Typists
'
Considerable interest has been
aroused on Maui this week by O. H.
Blaisdell, a typewriter expert, who has
been in the Islands for several weeks
fn the interests of the Underwood
company. Mr. Blaisdell, who was the
winner of the world championship re
cord for speed, in 1910 and 1911, gave
demonstrations of his skill at the Wai
luku court house, the First National
Hank of Wailuku, and the Baldwin
National Bank, of Kahului, writing
from unfamiliar copy from 120 to 140
voids per minute, and near the same
number from dictation. A large num
bi r of persons watched each of these
exhibitions, with real amazement. The
International Typewriter Trophy,
which is a J1000 cup, has been con
tested for annually since 1907. The
trophy was supplied by the various
hading machine manufacturers. Mr.
lilaisdell has not been in the contests
for several years.
Teal Company Makes
Many Maui Friends
Bad Weather Interferes But Attend
ance is Fair Company Made Up
of Clever Entertainers.
The Ravmond Teal Cnnmnnv. whtpli
closed its five nights engagements on
-nam last, nigni, uiu a lair business
from the box ofiice standpoints, in
spite of handicaps In way of bad wea
ther. As for the Maul theater patrons
the change from the iniessant movies
t oreal flesh and blood actors, was de
cidedly refreshing. The companv is
one of the best of its kind that 'has
ever come to the islands. Mr. Teal
himself is an exceedingly clever
comedian, particularly In coon parts,
which he deos not turn into carica
tures. Fritz Field is another actor
who always makes good as a fun mak
er. His work is never of the crude
order, and he gets his humor across
every time in a way that keeps his
audiences convulsed.
The "Ducklings" of course are, In
the aggregate the big feature of the
show. They are a more than ordinari
ly attractive bunch, and their good
looks are by no means dependent up
on grease paint In matter of ward
robe they are elaborately supplied.
Miss Madeline Itowe made a favor
able impression with her really excel
lent contralto voice, and Miss Hazel
Lake is a storm-center of merriment
in her wierd dance numbers.
The Teal Company has amplv
made good in Oahu, Ililo, and now on
Maui, and it deserves its success.
.
Music Club Renders
Interesting Program
The Maui Music Club at its meet
ing yesterday with Mrs. Duncan Mur
doch, heard with much interest the
following program:
(1) Music of France, Spain, the
Netherlands, and England. Mrs. II.
D. Sloggett.
(2) Hvmll 1)V Tlintllua Tnllio In
canon form. Quartette Mrs. Jones,
Mrs. Case. Mrs. Field t
(3) The Prayer Book and Music
uiu iuaungai ana part song. Mrs. W.
II. Field.
(t) Madrigale for piano. Miss
M. Hoffmann.
(5) Florentine Monodies Instru
ments and Instrumental Music and
Musical Literature. Mrs. A. C. Itat
tray. (6) Salterello Mrs. Win. Hav
ward. (7) Summary of the lGlh entury.
Miss H. Collins.
No Change In Death
List Ofj Big Storm
One Body Still Unrecovered May
Never Be Found, Kula Roads In
Bad Shape
The body of the little 8-year old
Sodetani girl, who with her mother
and baby brother were nniang the
victims of the great lao Valley flood,
has not yet been found. The list of
dead from the disaster remains the
same as reported last week 13. All
of the bodies except that of the Japan
ese girl have been recovered and iden
tified. Although the stream bid has
been most carefully searched, no
trace ot It has been discovered, and it
will probably never be recovered. It
is resumed to have either been cov
ered with soil by the shifting of the
stream bed, or carried out to sea by
the rushing torrent.
The coroner's ury empaneled last
week to pass upon the deaths of the
various storm victims, was not as
sembled until this afternoon, in hope
of finding the last body. The jury find
ings win or course simply be a mat
ter of form.
HIGH SCHOOL THEATRICALS.
This afternoon the members of the
freshman class of the Maul High
School gave before the school assemb
ley a one act farce of which the Utile
is Pratical Jokes."
The cast was as follows:
I'ncle Toby, a joker
John Ross McConkey
Tom Ashbrook Thomas Howell
Jimmy Culverin Harold Sauers
Letiiia Ten Kyck , .Gladys Meinecke
Emily Ten Eyek Thelma Boyum
Kula Road Still Impassable.
The road to Lahaina ws opened to
tralllo last Saturday, and while much
work remains to bo done in replacing
washed out bridges, and in other re
pairs, there are no serious difficulties
in traversing it. In Kula, however,
practically all bridges and many fills
were washed out, the roads are still
impassable in most' instances to ve
hicle tratllc, and the whole district Is
in a measure isolated.
lao Stream Again
Does Some Damage
Another Kona Rain Puts Water to
Dangerous Stage. Road to Laha-
ina Again Flooded Steamers Re
fuse to Land.
More kona weather, with strong
south-east winds at Lnlialna, and
heavy rains around Wailuku, caused a
good deal of inconvenience, but no
great amount of damage, Wednesday
and Thursday of this week. At Lahaina
the wind was so strong that the cap
tain of the Mauna Kea refused to
send a boat ashore, though several
passengers bound for Hilo, succeeded
in boarding the vessel from Gay's
launch, which also brought the mail
ashore. The .nail, for central Maui
however, did not get over until yes
terday, on account of the rains which
had again made the Lahaina road im
passable. The rain in the Wailuku district
was particularly heavy on Wednesday
afternoon and night, and lao stream
was on the rampage, but not to the
extent that it was during the disas
trous flood of last week. The water
however, arose to a dangerous height,
and fears were felt that the section
of town adjacent the Market street
bridge would again bo Hood-swept.
Water Works Crippled.
The temporary flumes for the Wai
luku water BUpply were carried out,
and have had to be replaced at some
cost and inconvenience. The Wailuku
Sugar Company's mill was compelled
to again suspend grinding because the
pipes supplying water to the mill were
carried out. A house belonging
to the same company, up the valley,
which had been badly damaged by the
first flood, was this time swept away,
but this loss is not great. No serious
damage to repair work under way was
done, due to vigilance and hard work
of plantation employes.
Saints Let Down In
Opening New Series
Waikapus Use White Wash Brush in
Good Shape Chinese Forfeit Game
to Japanese.
The strenous strin of St. Anhonys
in winning in their championship
game with the Chinese on the 16th
last, proved faal to them last Sunday,
when they opened the second series
with the Waikapus, and were white
washed by a score of 6 to 0.
Kala I'elekai, tho slahster of tho
Waikapus, is doing good work and it
la mostly due to his pitching that his
team carried the long end of the
score in Sunday's game.
E. Uodrigues first pitched for the
Saints and his benders were some
what puzzling to the other side. Ho
held them down to three runs for six
innings when he was replaced in the
7th by "Blackie" Keehu, said to be
the best pitcher in the league. But it
was evidently his off day and the Wai
kapus found three runs off him in the
8th, making six runs altogether.
The Chinese did not appear on the
diamond to play the Asahis last Sat
urday for reasons unknown to the
Asahis. and Umpire Cummings de
clared the game forfeited to the Nip
ponese.
Next Sunday the Saints and Asahis
will open the first game at 1 p. ni.,
while the Celestials and the Waikapus
will show their skill in the second
game at 3 p. m.
Score by innings:
123456789
Saints 0 0000000 0 u
Waikapus 00002103 C
Batteries St. Anthonys: Uodri
gues, Keehu I'omba. Waikapus Kala
I'clekai-W. Cockett.
Umpire Geo. H Cummings.
Scorer E. Bal.
