HOLDS FIRST PRIZE OF KENTUCKY PBE88 ASSOCIATION At BEST EIGHT PAGE WEEKLY IN KENTUCKY.
.this;
Delicate Girls
KiWeak Women
" fain strength
for body, blood And
nerves from
nature's tsourisbizuj
oil-food
Always Shua
Inferior Substitute
-Emulsion
Aut invenium viam, aut faciam.
Volume XXXI. Number 22.
LOUISA, LAWRENCE COUNTY, KENTUCKY, JANUARY 28, 1916.
M. F. CONLEY, Publisher,
Sandy
mews
ffui sates
' i acre
Nia-weii-a
C.4 Liver
OIL
1
AN AGED WOMAN
FATALLY BURNED
ANOTHER RAILROAD FOR
MOUNTAIN COAL FIELDS. ,
MM. WM. 8KAGGS LOSES LIFE
AS RESULT OF CLOTHING
CATCHING FIRE.
Mrs. D. W. Skaggs waa fatally burn
ed but Saturday at her home at Martha
a upper Blaine, In thia county. No
ne waa In the room when the accident
occurred, but It la supposed her cloth
ing caught Are from an open Ore place.
When discovered ah waa crouching In
a corner of an adjoining room, In a dy
ing condition, and with all of her cloth
ing burned off. The lace curtalna at a
window were In flames, having caught
are aa she paaaed them.
The unfortunate woman had been
demented for several years, but waa
aulel and harmleaa and easily cared for
at home. She waa about (0 years of
ace. A husband, one son and two
daughters survive her. Una daughter
la the wife of Dr. C. B. Hlce. Hhe waa
an excellent woman and hrr husband la
one of the county's beat cttlsena. The
aad accident haa elicited much sym
pathy from the many friends of the
family.
Whitesburg, Ky., Jan. 25. The mnln
Klkhorn coal field of Letcher and Pike
cotintlea la likely to Kit another lino
nf railroad, according" to an announce
ment which haa Just been made by the
Norfolk A Western. The N..& W. an
nounces that It will construct a line
from a point on the Clinch Valley di
vision near , Honoker, Va., paaalng
throuph the undeveloped coal and tim
ber fields of Uuchanan-co., Va., and the
Blackberry and Peter creek aectlona.
rich coal fields, of Plke-co. Into the
LONG TERM
TRAGIC DEATH OF
l- ERNE8T GOBLE.
rnilflT rilnrn Erneat Goble, aged 24. of Prestons
uUUIll ilnO LIIULU burg' was kllled exactly opposite the
CIRCUIT COURT CLOSES
SION OF NEARLY
FOUR WEEK8.
SES-
One of the moat important cases tried
at thia term of court waa that of Lo-
.m.i a .i..k i...(k rena Couksey. plaintiff, by her next
the Virginia and t'he Baltimore & Ohio i fr,e,ld' Ul,e Cookaey, her father, vexing and investigation found him lying
are heading with Important branchea. ' ur- J; ". carter, or tnia county, me
uu in wnicn piuinun sougm to re'
door of the passenger deuot in this cUv
' Thursduy night, supposedly by a mov
ing freight train. He bad been struck
In the buck ot the head and the blow
had crushed his akull In and had left
great gaping hole from whence a par
lion oi the Drains had oozed,
Mr. L. J, Frozier, who, with Mrs,
Frarier waa at the depot waiting for
the train east, having been called to
Hageratown, Md., by the death of the
latter1 mother, heard the man groan
The aurveys have been completed and
maps of the proposed extension filed In
the different countlea.
Klghta of waya are now being secur
ed for the Virginia extension. The B.
O. la to run from a point In West
Virginia through Lawrence, Martin and
Pike, connecting at Shelby Station
with the twenty-elght-mlle Jenkins
line that already reaches the center of
the great Klkhorn field.
. It la atated that surveys of the Nor
folk Weatern'a new branch Into the
Kentucky coal held will be atarted thia
week, apd that In all probability work
on the road will be atarted during the
present year..'
THIRTY PERSONS HURT
BY POWDER EXPLOSION
KANAWHA WRECK
GOES FOR SONG,
rarkeraburg, W. Va.. Jan. 22. The
appraisement of the steamer Kanawha
' ' which la a wreck at Lamp's Landing
waa filed today In the admiralty pro
ceedings In Federal court. The value of
the steamers wreckage la placed at
1I0.
The steamer Kanawha sank" on the
night of January 6 at Lamps Landing
after It had struck a pler-fiear the gov
ernment dam. KlKhtcea prrson were
believed to hive I'.-rn drowned. Only a
few of the b idica hate been removed
BECKHAM VOTES
WITH THE 0RY8
Washington, Jan. 20. The Senate
mended the Philippine self-govern
anent bill so as to provide for pmhllil
Moa of the manufacture, aale or Irn
poHatlon of Intualcallng lluuors, oth
er than native drinks. The vote waa 16
' la II In favor of the amend1 hent. Keen
Interest waa manifested V the Orona
amendment, aa It was (' first time
this aeealnn that a teat Vote haa been
made, on a prohibition meaaure. Kerur
tor Heck ham voted In the artlrmative
aad Senator Jamea In the negative.
HOUSE ADJOURNS OUT OF
RESPECT TO DEAD SENATOR.
Frankfort. Ky, Jan. 26. The House,
after being railed to order, at ten
a'elock thia morning by Speaker Duf
fy. adjourned until 10 o'clock to-mor
row out of reaiiect to the memory of
senator J. E. Stewart of llowan coun
ay, who died yesterday.
WAS NOT CHARGED ,
WITH ROBBERY
. In Ita report of court pror-edlnge butt
week the NK.WH unintentionally Stat
ed that Frank Fisher, or thia place, had
been convicted of robb-ry. Tho crime
for hlch the young man waa tried and
convicted waa receiving atolen goods,
aad not rubbery. . . .
BAPTI8T SUNDAY
8CH00L INSTITUTE.
Do not forget that the Baptiat Sun
day School Institute of 'the Greenup
Association will be In session from Fri
day evening until Sunday night 'at the
Baptist churrh, thia city. Head the
ares-ram In thia week's NEWS.
MAY RECEIVE MEDAL;
Professor T. B. McClure. principal of
. the Ceredo district high achool may re
ceive a medal for rescuing a wounded
-jlner, who had fallen from a trestle
4 4urt Thursday night. lYnfeaaor McClure
waa aroused In the night by a cry or
distress, he aroae from hia bed and
went to the scene and found that the
man had fallen some, thirty feet and
bad broken a leg and otherwise mang
led himself. Othera were summoned
and the wounded man rescued. The
Oarnegle bero fund waa established
year ago and many have received
medals and probably none more richly
deserve the medal than doea the aged
Professor. Wayne Newa.
Bluelield, W. Va., Jan. 26. -More than
thirty persons were Injured, Ave ar
lously here tonlkht, when a car loaded
with black powder blew upin the local
yarda of the Norfolk A Western Kail
road. Fire followed and before the
Dames could e controlled, several cars
loaded with merchandise had been de
stroyed. ' Three cars containing dyna
mite were on a nearby siding at the
time, but tlreinan succeeded in remov
ing them to a place or safety. The cause
has not been determined.
BABY JOINS MOTHER IN DEATH
Jemimah ITeston. the nine months
old baby daughter or Guy bTeaton o
Woods, Ky.. died hi the home of Its
grandparents. Mr. and Mrs. I. M. I"re
ton, who have rnred for her since the
death or their daughter, w ho gave In r
life that the baby mlKht be born..
Jemimah whs an exceptionally sweet
and bright baby and completely won
the hearts or all with whom she came
In corttact.
The' remains were shipped this af
ternoon for Buffalo, Ky., for Interment
beside those of her mother. Ashland
Independent.
PARDON GRANTED
TO CHOKER SEE
TORCHLIGHT MINE FOREMAN RE
LIEVED Or HIS MANSLAUGH
TER SENTENCE. '
Grover See. of this place, waa par
doned Tuesday of this week by Gov
ernor Stanley. He was under con
vlction for manslaughter and his sen
tence waa reduced by Gov. McCreary to
an Indeterminate term of one to five
yeara. The trouble occurred at Torch
light, this county, about a year ago and
the case was tried last August,' since
which time Pee has been Imprisoned
at Louisa awaiting result of steps for
a new trial.
The case aa presented to Gov. Stan
ley was very strong, showing the char
acter of the man who waa killed, the
threata made by him against See, and
other facta tending to establish self de
fense. New evidence found since the
trial gave the case a different aspect.
See has a position awaiting him aa
mine foreman and will assume the du
ties at once.
CAPTURED IN TEXAS.
Washington, January 24. John liar
He. the first of several men suspected
- ef holding up and robbmg a Baltimore
aa( Ohio train October I, 115, near
Oeatral Station, W. Va-, haa beeii ar
rested at San Antonio, Texas, the l'ost
eenoe Department to-day announced.
The robbers secured several packages
et unsigned bank notes, two of which,
the department announced, were found
ea llarria. Other arrests are expect-
KISSED BABY BADLY BURNED.
Greenup. Jan. 10. The four-year-old
daughter of Mr. and Mra. Abe Dillow,
ef this place, was seriously burned
-when her dress caught Are from an
epen grate aa she leaned over to klaa
her baby aister.
C. J.' KITCHEN 13 MARRIED.
A telegram waa received here from
Charles J. Kitchen, who Is In Cincin
nati, stating that he had Just been
united in marriage to Miss Vivian Pul
ler. It has been known for some time
that Mr. Kitchen had a great fondness
for this young lady and waa often In
Cincinnati, and atlll the announcement
of the marriage cornea aa somewhat of
a surprise. He met her last summer
while at French Lick Springs. She la
the head nurse at the Jewish Hospital
In Cincinnati and a young woman who
la held In the highest esteem by every
one. Mr. Kitchen of the Vansant-Kltch
en Lumber company. The Independent
Joins their friends In extending con
gratulations snd best wishes for a hap
py life. Independent.
cover I20.0UO from the defendant for
damages for alleged malpractice. The
case was called for trial last Friday
and ended Wednesday. The Jury, af
ter having been out several hours, de
clared to the court that they found it
impossible to agree upon a verdict The
Jury was accordingly discharged and
the case continued until the next term
of court. The plaintiff waa represent
ed by W. D. O'Neal, Stewart & Vinson,
and C. B, Wheeler. The defendant's
attorneys were M. S. Burns and Cain
at Thompson. ,
The case was very strongly contest
ed, several witnesses being examined
as experts, and both sides made strong
appeals for their respective clients.The
case has attracted a great deal of at
tention aa suits for malprctice are not
Common in this county.
Home time ago the plaintiff, who is
a little girl of seven years, fell from a
see-saw and sustained a fractured
arm. Dr. Carter waa called and he set
the Injured member. Home time af
terwards It was discovered that every
thing waa not right with the arm. Kx
atornetion showed that gangrene had
set In and some- of the lingers were
very much withered. The child was
brought to Rlverview hospital, this
city, where it was decided that ampu
tation at the elbow was necessary to
prevent the spread of the trouble. The
arm accordingly was taken off.
The case of Cora Laney, admlnis
train of her husband, John Laney, vs.
the Hasten) Kentucky Coal company at
Torchlight, was com promised for 1,000
ami li sts. Cain & Thompson were at
tor. leys for plaintl.T and Burns and
MmIIii for defendant.
The case of Wille Belle Cole vs. Home
Life Insurance company for $2,000 life
Insurance policy which waa held by
Holla Ferguson, was compromised. Th
terms or 4he compromise are that the
debts of the deceased, Kolla K. Fergu
son, growing out of the suicide, are to
be paid out of the I2.0UU and the re
malnder to be divided equally between
Cecil Ferguson, a brother or the deceas
ed, and Miss Cole. The debts amount
to over 1400.
This term of the court has been held
for a longer time probably than any
other term of the Lawrence Circuit
Court, ir Judge Cisco cloaea the court
on Friday aa la now contemplated, he
will have held court '2J Judicial days.
During thia time a great deal or buai
ness baa been disposed of. There were
about 45 civil cases on docket and when
court closes probably about ten of
these will be left.
beside the track. ' This was around
o'clock i a. m. He gave the alarm and
the body was removed to the city build
Ing about the time the train pulled in
for the Kast, slightly late. Physicians
were called and everything that could
be done was done for the dying man,
whom a son of Judge May or Prestons-
burg, who was In the city, later idehti
fled as- his fellow townsman.
The remains were removed to the
Kilgore undertaking establishment
where Coroner H. 8. Swope conducted
an inquest, the Judge finding that the
unfortunate man had accidentally met
death through having been struck by a
train. There was no Indication of foul
play. The family was notified and Mr.
W. H. Jones, Lon Moles and D. M
Powers, brothers-in-law, left Prestons
burg by the first train for this olty and
the remains were taken home lust
night on.No. 18. Independent.
FUNERAL AT SHOALS,
. . WAYNE COUNTY,
The funeral of Mrs. Rosa Smith, wife
of James Smith, of Shoals, Wayne-co.,
was conducted Wednesday, Mrs. Smith
was the daughter of Wayne Perdue,
well known merchant at Shoals. Be
sides the husband, aeven children aur
vive. Mrs. Smith was about thirty-
live yeara old. The burial took place
t Ilrimfleld cemetery.
DEATH CLAIMS ANOTHER
OLD RESIDENT.
Uncle Will Stapleton, who has made
his home with his son Charley at the
mouth of Paint creek for some time,
died Wednesday and waa taken Thura
day to his old home In Magofdn county.
where he will be buried Friday.
I'aintsvllle Post
FINLF.Y FOGG STRICKEN.
Frankfort, Ky.r Jan. IS. Friends
here of former Prison Commissioner
Flnley Fogg, of I'aintsvllle, received
word to-day that be la Critically III In
Cincinnati at a hospital, where he waa,Veraity of Illinois, to rpeak. Indepen
taken for an operation.' dent.
ANOTHER FIRE IN GRAYSON.
Another fire visited our town Thurs
day night and entirely destroyed the
home of Mr. Buttle, taking with It all
hla provisions and the family barely
escaped In their night clothes, -with
what bed clothes were on the bed.
It waa near 10 o'clock when they
were awakened to And the loft already
abjaxe and almost ready to fall In.
They rushed out and gave the alarm,
but before any one could reach the
scene, the fire waa ton far along; to
save anything. Carter County Newa.
INSTITUTE DATES.
Frankfort, Ky Jan. 24. The Exe
cutive Committee of the State Farm
ers Institute today fixed February IS
to IT, as the dates for holding the State
Farmers' Institute In this city his year.
Invitations have been extended 'to
Hugh Van Pelt, of the University of
Iowa, and Cyril O. Hopkins, of the Uni-
A FINE DAUGHTER ARRIVED.
The many friends of Mr. and Mrs.
Geo. Gunnell. Jr, of thia city will be
delighted to learn that a fine daughter
arrived on the 22nd to be the future
ruler of the Gunnell home. The babe
was born at Dr. Gillespie's private hos
pital In Cincinnati, where Mrs. Gun
nel haa been staying for the past few
days. She has been with her parents.
Mr. and Mrs. B. F. Thomas, in Cincin
nati for the past two months. Rela
tlves here are much rejoiced over the
advent of this aweet little girl. Mr.
Gunnell la with hia wife in Cincinnati.
Catlettsburg Item.
The very many friends of the fair
young mother, who waa born and who
grew to young womanhood In this city,
will heartily rejoice with her over the
advent of a daughter Wlliena Fairfax
Gunnell. No more popular girl ever
lived In Louisa. Rich and poor, white
and' black, everybody liked Helolse
Thomas. Alt wish that she and her
little one may live long and be happy.
The father Is also a native of Louisa
and haa developed Into a substantial
bualnesa man of Catlettsburg. George
la a worthy young man, of excellent
habits, strict Integrity, and of fine prospects.
REMAINS TO BE TAKEN
TO JOHNSON COUNTY.
Miss Myrtle Scarbeiry, aged SI years.
daughter of F.noch Scnrbcrry of Clyffe-
alrie, died after an Illness of several
weeks. The remains will be taken to
Johnson county Wednesday morning
for burial Independent
M. C. Kirk, of Palntsvllle, attended
the Lawrence Circuit Court thia week.
INVESTIGATING MINE AND
LABOR CONDITIONS IN KY,
United States Immigration Inspector
Thomas Thomas returned to his office
In the local Federal Building yesterday
from a tour of Inspection of the mine
and ldbor conditions existing at the
coal hrrlds of the Consolidation Coal
company at Jenktna and McRoberts,
Ky. He will forward a report of his
finding to the Department of Labor at
Washington to-duy.
Oh the heels of Inspection Thomas's
return. Chief Social Investigator Wil
liam Hurris, Cincinnati, received a com
plaint from Joseph Zmuiiu, a miner.
who told Harris that he, his. wife and
eight-year-old son hud walked from the
mines to Paris, Ky a distant of 206
miles. Zmuda asked for transportation
to New lork for himself and family.
The complaint made by Zmuda was
reported to Inspector Thomas, who to
day will hold a conference with Chief
Harris also will Interview Zmuda, who
yesterday was sent to the City Hos
pital to rest. Cincinnati inquirer. .
' I
NEW SCHEDULE FOR
- BIG SANDY TRAINS
THE CHANGE WILL GO INTO EF
FECT SUNDAY, JAN-
' UARY 30TH.
A new schedule will go into effect
next Sunday on the Big Sandy divla
lon of the C. & O. railroad. At the same
time the CJlnchfleld road will put in
to effect a passenger service connect
ing with the C. & Q. at Klkhorn City,
In Plke-co. The Clinchneld's line runs
to Spartanburg, South Carolina. This
establishes a service that will event
ually develop a large business from
Cincinnati and way points to the Caro
lines and other aouthern territory.
Some of the most wonderful mountain
scenery In the United States is trav
ersed by thia line.
Train No. 36 will leave Ashland about
6:15 a. nr., Louisa 7:37, and arrive at
Klkhorn City at 1:60 p. m. A Clinch
field train leavea for Spartanburg at
2:00.
Returning at No. 39 the train will
pass Plkevllle and other points about
45 minutes later than at present. The
time at Louisa is 6:00 p. m.
No.. 38 will leave Ashland at about
4:00 p. m., passing Louisa at 6:20, two
minutes later than the present sche
dule. Thia train goea only to Plke
vllle, but It la reported the run will be
REVIVAL SERVICES
MOVED TO COURT HOUSE
CHURCH BUILDING TOO SMALL
TO -HOLD THE
CROWDS.
J. E. .M'GLONE AND ,'.
, BONDSMEN SUED.
The revival service which started at
the M. K. Church, South, January 2, la
continuing with unabated interest On
account of the very large congregations
it waa determined last Sunday morning
to hold the subsequent meetings In the
court house. The auditorium or the
church was entire too small for the
barge numbers who attended-and those
who tried to attend and were prevented
by the absence of room. Accordingly
on Sunday night the services were con
tinued at the court house and will be
held there every night this week and
next Sunday morning and night The
Sunday school also of the M.E.Church,
South, will be held in the same room.
On last Sunday night not less than be
tween 00 and 600 people Jammed the
large court room to its utmost capa
city. Late comers had to leave with
out gaining admission, many ef them
going to the other churches of the city.
There is ne lack of Interest in these
meetings and time only can' tell what
the harvest will be. Some have pro
fessed , conversion, some have Joined
the church, many have sought -an In
terest In the prayers If the church peo
ple. There has been no let up In the
fervor and earnestness of the Rev. Mr.
McEldowney. He has preached more
than 26 sermons, all marked with elo-
quence.-eaxnestneKS and sincerity.
The musical part of this series , of
services has been a special and very
attractive feature. A large choir, good
singers, under the sole direction of Rev.
Marlon Powell, has done much to at
tract and please the large congrega
tions. Mr. and Mrs. Powell are very
pleasing and effective singers he, with
his fine tenor, and she, with her very
rich contralto, have on each occasion
sung beautiful duets, the memory or
which will live long after the singers
have left us. There has also been good
singing by others, in solos and duets,
some of which have been mentioned
heretofore. .' On Saturday night last
Mr. Seeley, of New York, who is the
possessor of a fine baritone voice, sang
in a musiclanly way, "One Sweetly Sol
emn Thought," skillfully accompanied
by Miss Opal Spencer. On Sunday
night Mr". Robert Edgtngton, of Hunt
ington, and Miss Kate Freese, sang a
very pretty duet In a way which pleas
ed all. Mr. Kdglngton la a member of
the choir of the Episcopal church of
Huntington. Besides these we are glad
to mention the presence and singing of
Evangelist J. E. R. Miller, of Indiana.
He has a very pleasing voice, expres
sive and melodious and sings with the
spirit and the understanding also. He
is also skillful as a conductor as was
shown on several occasions during the
meeting.
It may not be out of place to say
here that Mr. Miller, who is an evang
elist of the Christian church, came to
Louisa to hold a series of meetings.
When he came, however, and ascer
tained that Mr. McEIdowney's meeting
was already In prpgress, he expressed
an unwillingness to begin hla meeting
while another minister waa conducting
one. It la hla Intention, so we are in
formed, to begin his meeting at once
upon the close or the one now In pro
gress. 1
Rev. and Mrs. Powell, after a stay
with us or nearly a month, left Wed
nesday morning for their home in Enid,
Okla. They made many friends here
w.ho will miss them greatly. Each of
them has an attractive personality and
agreeable manner, and should kind
Providence ever return them to Louisa,
their coming will be received with
pleasure.
The NEWS can not refrain from
again alluding to the gratifying fact.
that while the meeting began as a re
vival service of the M. E. Church.South
It has been to a very large extent a
union service. This paper doea not re
member any previous meeting In which
this fraternal sentiment haa been so
pleasingly manifested. All churches
Frankfort, Ky.. Jan. 22. Following-
the Indictment ' yesterday of Circuit
Clerk J. E. McGlone, of Carter-JCo, on
fourteen counts, charging ' him with'
making out false accounts against the
State, suit was filed in the Franklin
Circuit Court to-day by the Attorney
General's Department against McGlone
and his bondsmen for (8,706.14, the
amount for which State warrants were
isaueu on uuegeu iaise. claims lor wit
ness fees In Commonwealth cases made
out by McGlone.
Banker J. A.. Stamper, of Olive Hill,
to whom most or the claims were as
signed and to whom the warrants were
made payable, la said to have entered
Into an agreement' with Attorney Gen
eral Logan, that if the latter would sue
McGlone and hla bondsmen for the
amount Stamper would make good to
the State any sum that could not be
collected by the auit -H. H. Scott'
signed the agreement bond as surety.
vitc vr wade vr vniau-
WITH BULLET Iti BRAIN.
Lexington, Ky, Jan. 24. Given up by
the attending physicians aa hppelesa.,
Henry Austin Whltt, the three-year-old
Wolfe county boy, who was wound
ed bv the accidental discharge nf a nls-.
tol over a week ago, was taken by bis
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Whitt
back to hla home at Cannel City to die.
The bullet lodged in the boy'a brain.
tissues, an operation was found to be
impracticable, and after treating the
patient for several days, the attending
physicians pronounced his condition
nopeiess. i ne parents carriea tne uuie
fellow back home to await the Inevit
able. ' . ' . . ' .
TO BUILD BRIDGE ACROSS '
TUG FORK OF BIG SANDY.
Frankfort, "Ky., Jan. 20. Contracts
will be let February 8 for the cotiBtr'uc
tion of a bridge across the' Tug .Fork
of the Big Sandy river at Williamson,-
W. Va., connecting Pike-co Ky., and
Mingo-co., Vv. Va. The bridge is to
have steel superstructure and wooden
roadway. The substructure will be
built of concrete. Plans are on tile with
the Commissioner of Public Roads,
INSTALLED OFFICERS.
On lust Monday . night Apperson
Lodge No. 196 A. F. A. M., Installed
the officers who were elected In De
cember. Mr. Will Queen the W. M.,
Jesse Roberts S. D, and M. L. Johns
J. D. The installation was followed by
work In the A. E. degree. '
fuAHAbtn Uf lUAL
C0. EILLED
PARIS DANIELS FATALLY STABS
PHILLIP ECKERT, OP NAU- u
GATUCK COAL CO. -
, . t
extended to Flkhiirn Cltv mutn
, .
No. S7 will run at almost the same were representee at nearly, u not ev-
time as at present, being only two '"vice, wnicn nas oeen neia not
minutes later at Louisa. ' on,v represented by the membership
A fast train carrying manifest freight
for southern points will run Just ahead
of train 86 every morning.
BEWARE OF THIS MAN WILSON.
We received a letter Saturday from
Mr. L. Webb at Overda. Ky, in which
he states that a man by the name or
G. W. Wilson is soliciting new subscrip
tlons for the Independent in that sec
tion and is collecting In advance for
same. This ia to notiry the public that
we have no Such agent aa G. W. Wil
son and he has no authority to collect
for us or to solicit new aubacripllons.
ir he ia doing what Mr. Webb says he
la, we herewith publicly brand him aa
an Impostor and a fraud. Beware of G.
W. Wilson, aa he is not a representa
tive of the Ashland Independent Pub
lishing Company. Ashland Indepen
dent. :
and ministers of the other churches.
but all have taken an active part In
helping the good work along. The
choir, as haa been Btated before, con
tains representativea from every .oth
er choir in the city, and for their ser
vices on these occasions, the M. E.
Church, South, feels grateful. .
'Williamson. W Va .fan 2 Phil.
Up Eckert, general manager' of the
Naugatuck Coal company's - plant at
Blockton. twelve milea west of here.
was murdered at noon today by Paris
Daniels, who had been conducting a
boarding house for the company. Eck
ert was killed while eating lunch' In
itio dining room of the boarding house. '
It is alleged that Daniels came up be
hind Eckert and plunged a knife into
his neck, ' the thrust severing the
Jugular vein. Death resulted quickly
nnu cu-fteri never spoae alter receiv
ing 'the wound. -
In the dining room at the time were
members of Daniels' family, B. H. Fitx-
ixfcisii.-iv, me i-oiiipttii jr s uooititeeper, ana
number of other boarders. State
ments secured from these witnesses.
including Daniel's sister, agree that
the murdered man was unaware of
Daniels' presence and that Daniels
gave no warning to hia victim. Daniels
soon after the killing, boarded an east
bound passenger train for Williamson
to give himself up. In the meantime
Sheriff Hatfield and a number of dep
uties had left for Blocton, mesages hav
ing been received here that Daniels
was trying to escape.
Daniels is being held in Jail pending
a preliminary examination. It is claim
ed that Daniels had been drinking
heavily for a week and that Eckert thia
morning Informed him the boarding
house would be taken from him after
the first of the month. Incensed be-
ran.A nf tfila I u .(..). HalMwlnul An k. ,
revenged. .
Daniels refused tonight to discuss
the affair with the Herald-Dispatch
correspondent, stating that he will tell
BUCHANAN WEDDING. '
On the fourth of January ISIS, at J.
Turmana' were united In matrimony
H. B. Buckley, of Sclotovllle, Ohio, who
In the mercantile buolness at this
place. He la a very fine young man of
good repute. Was married to Miss
Mary Turman by the writer at the
ome of the bride. She Is the daughter!
of J. S. Turman, a thrifty
MR. WOODS HOME.
Atty. John W. Woods returned Sat
urday night from Rochester, Minn.,
where' he accompanied his brother.
Jamea H. Woods, of Louisa, who went be facts only when the proper time
there for treatment at the Mayo Bros. arrives. Residents of Blockton who
hospital. Mr. Woods reports that his I "now the circumstances can assign no
brother la doing nicely and will likely (other reason for the murder except
be able to come home In a couple of.0""'18' drunken frenxy. Herald-Dis-
weeks. - He underwent quite a delicate
and serious operation. The . many
friends of the family will rejoice with
ua to know that Mr. Woods la now well
on the road to recovery. Ashland In
dependent - ' ;
Buchanan. She Is an excellent chris
tian lady and will make the groom a
good wife. The relatives, many friends,
with the writer, wish them a long, hap
py and prosperous life. J. H. DAW
SON. L
AN OCTOGENARIAN DIES.
On Tuesday afternoon, Jan. 26, "Un
cle John" Chafin, who lacked but little
of being 80 yeara old, died at hla home
on Twin Branch after a short illness.
He was suffering from an attack of
grippe, when double pneumonia set In.
farmer of This and his advanced age were too
4" : HOSPITAL NOTES. "
Mra. Toungie Maynard, Plke-co., Mish
Workman, of Upper Wayne-co., West
Va.; Mrs. Fred Litteral, of Thacker,
and Mr. Sam ml e Queen, of Wayne-co
have recently entered Rlverview hos
pital for treatment Some, possibly all
of them, will be operated on.
much for the enfeebled man, and de
spite the best care and attention the
old man waa compelled to answer the
call to which mortality must report
Hia wife and daughter have been very
111 but are said to be improving. ,
FATHER OF 21 CHILDREN.
Uncle Henry Terrell, aged 75, died at
hla home on Meadow creek last Mon
day night after a short illness of pneu
monia. Mr. Terrell waa the fathei1 or
twenty-one children, aoventeen of
whom are now living, and waa a mem
ber of one of the largest and most re
spected fumilles In this county. Will
iamsburg Republican.
4
