Bun.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
I THE ART OF BEING
A 'T.RCAT inVFH'1
Rain to-day, probably 4
1 Leo Ditrlchiteln writes of the ideal lover in
to-morrow tair ana
Hiehest temperature y
reai me. Fran ward U'Malley writes ot
Mr. Dltrichstein, the "stage lover." .
IN NEXT SUNDAY'S SUN
lietnllrd weather, mall and m.i
PRICK
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 150.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 1916. Copyright, 1!". V lhe Sun Printing nn,l PublUMng .Issorloiion.
urnSr to snow;
MB- IWWmU. 5 3
TWO CENTS.
SENATORS IN
HOT FIGHT FOR 1
ARMSEMBARGO,
Xo icf l.aiscil in DotViicc
, of I'. S. IViiiiittiii": Ship- j
11 it 1 1 1 of Munitions.
Stop Rifling Oar Mails,
U. S. Demand on England
Ui'itish Seizures Denounced ,
ns Klnraut Violutiou of j
Neutral Rights.
.AVKI.T TKST VOTK
(JKKV ASKS FOll TIM K
to coxsri;r ai-liks
HY A COMIM.OMISK, whinowx. .t..n. :7.-Ti,e text r
1 America's formal protect to Sr.-ut
HrllHln agaiiMt Interference with Amer-
. . . .. Icn malts n nd of (lreat llrlt:ilti'H ad In-
rriiliilMtion Would nave, tcrlm reply wan made public tit the State
I Department thl afternoon.
I In tlie note of protest dated January 4
i the I'nlted Stutes ill. Handed a illscon
. Ilnuaiicc nf "these unwarranted Interfer
ences" and Ambassador Page wan In
structed to enter a "vlgorou protest"
and "Itnpres uhmi Sir IMwanl (!rey the
Saved Lusitania. Says
Works.
NO MAILS TO BETAKEN
FROM SEIZED VESSELS
Hxrliil iWt l)niilch In Tnr Si s.
Lonpo.v, Jan. 2". The Foreign
"Mice will Issue to-night the Hrltlsh
reply to the American note on the
selzme of malli". The note will be
published simultaneously In I.onilon
anil In Washington.
Appeiiileil to the note I a memor
anilum stating Hut to avoid misap
prehension no mall will he censored
or removed from neutral ship
brought forcibly Into port for pur
pose of heat ch,
POISON ACID POURED TROUBLE MAY COME ANY MOMENT,
ON BABY IN GO-CART; nPA7? P1?J7:mJ7iVT. MATTHM MFTSsT
AT ONCE TO GUARD
I
Cnrlmlif Is Forced Uowii In
flint's Tlmint While Mol hoi
Is in Store.
ARM
I'M KM) IS NOW AT I. A IMlK
Little One So Hiirneil Funlhiiin
llospitnl Doctors Teiir It
('niiiiot Live.
WniV(iTON. .tan 27. The Senate
' !) laine clo to a Vote which might
hue been regarded as a test on tne pro
fnfi. to lay an embargo on shipments
r( arm' aid nmnumltlon to the belllg-
rf
,ue nroe oxer ine quriuuii ...
referring to a Semite committee poli
ter.' .;gned he mote than million per-r-.t,
men, woineti.inil chlhlren, praying
r.iere- to leRllate aKalnst forelpn
ln.t n ar materlalK. Senator Ken
j .n of Iowa preente,l the petlllunn and
F-.i!.'r Ktone. i halrman of the Kotelpn
t! -n ion Committee, irled to head oft
tt'w'f tv i.lln the point inai iii-cuj
neccflly for pioinpt action In till mat
ter." L'nder date of January "J Sir IM
ward drey replied that as the American
note ralRed Important itirtloii of prin
ciple afTeclliiK not only (Jrcjt llrllaln but
her allien, the Hrltl.h Ooveriilnenl found
It neceiary to consult with tliei-e allien
before makltiB dellnlte answer. I loin- In
exprcKKcd oy Sir Kdw.ird tirey that he
will br able soon to lil.ll.e more d'!lult
refponse. IIUHoi'tloii llrumi.
.Inllti- I'leiiiHiH wa. 1 week old e
I tfiil.iv. and IncldMitnlty had hi tlret
American protect Indulnei. In xharp ' outlnK. Ill mother had PM ' fnr
laimuane. Declaring that the Tnlted , ,( Mew -q.,,.! f0r the bali, and iu In
State cannot admit the rluht of -4Irltlli ' ., ,,i,, nicked
l.inthoritle,. to ..el7.e lleutr.ll veel in- nmrm.., u,e
,1-arrvlnir ilit-Ke mull. luliiK them to ,lullu Ktiuitly Into the new ko-i art iiim
port and lemoxe or cenor the mall, the ),im ptuudly out from the Ch-m-
note remin.iM ureal iriiam in m m- , u) wilkln-on av.-ntie. The
em practice xenerally lecownUeM Hut rn" . ,
mall are not to be censored. oiitlHcatl Urons. ami oer to Southern Houlca.l.
or iletroed on the lilich pea even when itiui8 utrect of many children
cartled by belllKerent mall idilpi." jM ('1,.,,.,,,, wn l. the wife of
further Ol.Jrcllo.. Mn.le. ' .lo.eph flemen. a carpenter, took her
Nor can the fn.ted State, adm.t a ' onlv other child. four.5ear-old U
Jtli-llllable. the note in-l-t. the practice I along, Lentil I tneldnif brrlde the l.en
of taking such hli Into Itrltlnh portx uiIm rnrrluK. All Wllkiui'on avenue ami
for i-earch and th.re joilijectlm: tneni to r tilled with yonnr
The American piotext draw. a lateful
dlKtlnctioii between the action of the
local recuiaiioii pernio uuk riu-.n nii. ..... - ..i......
f i,iii niotlier wneeiniK ni'i -
ICveii In the cne of neutral mall ship : t. MlRhtty older children playlnc about
touchliiK at llrltlh port, the note de- . llllliv' ,..,,r.ifee. in lwila
clare thei I not any International iMmieiii wa1
rlKhl under which the Hrltleh author!- AkhI.i and i.K. In M lem' m.
tie may lemove the ealed mall or -topped by ou '" f i,,bx
cen-or them on board. aBe w in wante, t"-';" '') ' '
The I'nlted State warn (ileal Hrltaln , In Southern Boulevard Juet la ith .r
of the HtrotiK feelll.K that I ldn , K.Mh Mi-et a candy .hop catiuht t ie
,. .-.I i., il. ...iitnrv l. thi Inter- -ve of l.eonln The little clrl nked her,
Hrltlh authorltle In el2lui: and di-taln- ..,.... ,ni:.n, ilmt valuable inoilier to take her Into the confectioner j
lmr parcel thit nackaec and the action 1 i.nt-u ,'..,, -v mii.N nnil ir.ift are be ! nn,l t.uv ome cand.
1 ...... I..I.... ..r.llt.r.. ,llu ' . .'' ' . 1 .... ..I H-.lfll T.lllllM." '
. ..i. mil of o iler on a .iue.tlon ofiul ivra urn uti. n i j , IIK it lo Mini an extent tnai ioreiBo -ion i.i om " " ' 1 V , "
, .-. .!. oui oi o.urr i practlce ,vnic, lt .le.crlhe a "exa- hliU ar,. rPfU,K to ca.li American ' Mr. Olemeji told U-onla. "aid 111 K'
,',fn-, e if a petition. tiouMy Imiulnltot lal " negotiable paper. The I'nlted Sla'r and "otne enndy for you"
T Vn e.l'irxldrnt overttiied htm nnd I'arctl it article, the note ftate. .U.0.M (jr,.at llrllaln nlo of detalniiiB I
I i me ! looked a If there would arc regarded by the Pepartinent of State .uptmn.it It mail. I. Idle Mnlrr lile llarm. !
i honilolt H Mirnuin a uciHK nuojrvi u- no- r..u. ........ rue llllltire OI tile nrillMl tiuiern- ,,,,., ... fi., ,..,n,v thiei
Mho favor and 'hoe vvlio oppoe s exprc ''t'';!'' mit to B,ve a detinue reply ha, .added fto lwr A he turned fron,
n fmaarKo. i in..... ..v....... . ,.n.... - IM' ,."".- ';t''l-,;
Itore withdrew hi point oi nroei
rnniirnml.e Henchrtl
STATEMENTS IN MR. WILSON'S ADDRESS.
I cannot tell you what the international relations of this
country will be to-morrow. I would not dare keep silent nnd
let the country suppose that to-morrow was certain to be as
bright as to-day.
There is something the American people love better
than peace. They love the principles upon which their politi
cal life is founded. They are ready at any time to fight for
the vindication of their character and honor.
I would rather surrender territory than ideals.
The loader of the House of Representatives delivered a
speech the other day that showed he was ready, and I take
it for granted that the men behind him are ready, to forget
party lines that all men may act with a common mind and
impulse for the service of the country.
Let no man dare say, if he would speak the truth, that
the question of preparation for national defence is a ques
tion of war or of peace.
I have sought to maintain peace against very great odds.
I am ready at any time to use every power to pre
vent such a catastrophe as war.
HONOR
Wilson Tells 1,300 Diners at the
Waldorf Ttyat Country Must
Prepare at Once to Take
Part in World Affairs
KEPT ON THE GO EVERY MINUTE
DURING 16 HOURS IN NEW YORK
Tells Suffs Enfranchisement of Women
Question for States to Decide Extraor
1 dinary Steps Taken to Guard Him
Is
COMMONS WAR SESSION
IS ENDED BY THE KING
Compulsion Hill Becomes Law Monarch Tells Parlia
ment Fight Must Continue Until Victory Is Won
Labor Strong Against Conscription.
i conoemii.i- tu , , Krilw nK resentment nxainsl wnai " ,. ,., ,,, ..,,,,,1.. i
po-t matter or,,,.,;,,; im. )m.ed to retard a an be counter m V'if.nl wni
ry merchan- LVahe policy of the HrltWi FnrelBn ""'' h" nw ,in,t ''f """J T , '
tlon . that I to say. parcel
ki.. In .1, m. rf nrritnnrv iiiercli.in-l - i .11,...
dle. shin tran-nortlnc It. even thmiBh , ,.,., remectiiut legitimate protest from onlns to her excitedly to come out to
1 .U . A.dal. nf ..uiitrll urn fltthtfPt til ttlP ! ..... I. .it... I U ,l ...t.. nni.tril ttlC ideWalk
Jt vv,i apiirent that a compromle . , ,,',,',. ruPS of ,'ntraband tr.itlle nnt! ..nuntri,.,. The ame resentment I man- "ulck, mamma . look at baby." I.eonla
,r.-i,if .thtt ;.i..jf-'. f.iTnr Sin.
Losoos. Jan 2T The llritlsh Parlli-
llrltl'h democracy and fill! of
per to the lthertle of the people
,1,. l-
I'ru.iiU'iit Wilson put in n busy sixteen hour day in New York, making
three xet speeches, lie arrived in New York nt i'X A. M. yesterday,
finished n niRht's eleep in hist private cur, left for the Waldorf at 8:30
escorted by a delegation from the Railway Husiness Association and had
breakfast with Mrs. Wilson.
Presently he gave way to the persistency of the suffragists, reversing
his refusal to see them, anil told them in the east room that woman suf
frage to him was a State and not a Federal matter.
At noon in Aeolinn' Hall he spoke before the clerical conference of
the Federation of Churches nnd deliberately, it appeared, sought to abol
ish the opinion that he was "too proud to fight." He visited the Uni
versity Club nnd then went for a drive with Mrs. Wilson.
At 7:30 P. M. he appearetl at the dinner of the Hallway Business
Association anil delivered a fresh speech in which he rcvcnlcd what
course he will tnke in his coming Western trip an appeal for non-partisan
support of his preparedness policy and an extenuation of his Mexican
policy. His prcpnred speech was put aside, a new one being substituted.
At 1 1 P. M. he spoke before the Motion Picture Board of Trade nt
en reached by Senator because bl(H.ka,e rc,t'rlctlon
it .,..1 ,..,,.. 1.a itl.OM,.;t Ir. rf.rMAtiln
m lit not wain m "i "I- ' '." At the same tlmeiireat llrllaln I in- tlve here of the north European neti
cvil t.i this lmvortantuhJect at thl formP1 ,ul a9 lt!e I'nlted State already tr;i.
i m I ha disputed the llrltleh order In council i
- heated dlculon no one an- lin-pt.tns neutral trade and ha refused Thr. No,p f r,,iel.
N.v -I in defend the forelun trade In , rcC0Rnlxe the Hrltlh blockade a an ,,,!.. ,i
,,n I ammmiltlon. In fact It wn . prfcCtlve one, all previous protest of till ! The text of the American protest fol-IP-re
t that an mubarKU ha stronR COUI,try n reitard to what constitute the hm.
n fq In the Senate. IIioiikIi probahly I u,iinwful practice of taklnc ship Into, 77ir Srrrrlnru of Mule lo Atubns.
rti ufflclent to put It thrnimh over the p0rt for rPnrch rather than seaichlnc I xulor If. 17. fiiyc
t-iio.'tlon nf the Administration. ,nem oll tle hlKh sea, the lllcR-illty of l J W iirnm. )
T' e petition, which were tlwtlly re- lhe .cnlled llrltlh blockade and the )rpurOiioi of State.
I.- ej to the KorelBii Helntlom t'orn- improper asumptlon of Jurisdiction of trosMnnlon. Jim. 4, IVIH.
e were lmptc!ve looklmr docu- Veel and carK'ie by the Ilrltlsh prize I leparlinent advUeil that nrltlsli
r There were twemy clotne n- court are intention to apply wmi eipiat i cuHtiun auuiui mre irn "
I,., tulfil with the mas, vvmcn con-, street to ine seizure mm tieicmiuiis m i tmiiien rirum.-, ..-...i ..
,i tnnn netltlnn. cich forty leet . parcel post article. ' pare .
r ,nd contalnlnK in the itKrreate with repeci to the seizure of ordl
7 'n name. 1 nary mall li.-twt en the I'li'ted State
'le'inass of petition arrived from and neutral cnuntrie of Europe the
r-. Mima iut before noon. beliiK ton-
M (mm that city In n larKe mnvliKr
.a TerMiii who examined the name
.v.. hinl liprfime available tils-
,.e. Vt.on evldeme of ' TaddlnB."' II LiniUltiUU VI nuiv
. line of lx iiinl eight trom the
, i. amilv belnB written In the same
i- i lie The blKKest llt came.
' Milwaukee and slionit Herman Io
cs e and the predomination of for
il'.e i specially Herman, wa noted
I'lfleen Mile lVlltlon.
i.eimou I presented," said Sen-
..ll.. ... 11,1 tf II. l".V ' .11, 'III. ll.-" r . ..
baby somethlnn' ! ,,,r'- The comiiulso!y military service
Mr I'lemen burr ed to the bo. cart j hill, Hie "traditiK with the eti. m ' act
meat wa prorocu.il to.,l.t after one of The econd. relatuiK peolllcnlly to the (hc oUl, njltrnoro. At midnight, with Mrs. Wilson, Secretary Tumulty
!h ni.! mnnmnlmu .,-lor. In Im lil- n''"tr erv ir- bin. re an : . ...!
Thl conference declare It ..ppo- anil nr. virayMin, nc ini u o...n iu a.-niiiKion.
ntlnn lo the military service bill, nnd
hi event of Its becoming a law decide
to agitate for It repeal.
tlon of war m t. providing for Hovern-' The extremist proposed that the power
m,t "dilution' of labor, received the of the workers be u-ed to Wt tH
ro.val nssent to-da and paseed Into law. amorj(f (h,, clai., :,tnal strike wa
;;u bag
route from I ntted
Slate to Norwa, Sweden and lien
I 'fOironif d on honrth 'of;c
canity snop wa a sauow smiinen w,ir sinri' Septtniner 1 1. u-i... worn n assistance of labor, which wa
bout 4T. ear old. He wa of rHll.,,,H.,j nfler a lx weeks adjournment, I agalnat conscription root and branch,
n height, wore a fairly good eult . ,-,.M,i ti,,. iiriret budset In d should not do anything to cause a
k m.itenal. a felt li.it and nv I lhe , M ' .J " rift In II rank
WEAKNESS OF LONDON AUTO UPSETS ENGINE;
DEFENCES ADMITTED TWO MEN ARE KILLED ;
itr in Mm. oy a nana oi women u"
i .. ,m ,-,iiniiated 'OlKanlzntloii of
. n Women for Strict Neutrality '
,'iinn l signed by over a million
. ,ii ! every Slate In thl I'iiIoii, and I
t ,ril together It would reach some
f.'.i-'i and one-half mile. .
(Jrciit Improvement Sim-e
I, tot linid.
Kuuiiii't'i- Victim nt Al-
IciivmmkI. ,. .1.
rio-hum.uiltv and pro-Chtlstlnnlty. mil- jon 11Ka.t aerl.il raiders:
Ixill'lll'IIIT Tl'll- iM'IMItatlllll Ot , I " Ml'lilll IM-nill"; till- illlll .n - skin she did not rcallr- Ih
irlgntriune oi tne ouin i or ei
l. ck "he hiirrledlv wheeled the babv
through Souther lloulevar.l llttlo
Julln had Mopped moaning now
i toward the home of mie of her cloe
friend, Mr .lulia llrnhie. nf :,M
l.tki.ivwu. N .1 . .Ian Two per- Hoi.tben. It uleviiMl Mm ijri.li!- n-nK
. ., , ,, . a quirk look at the illMlgured .liillu
eon . r Mll,.,l and two mhe, Ui.lly . ,,' lt)rrtr.,, , , ,, tileplnme and
Injured late thl afternoon near Allen- ,.n,.,i up l-'ordhani Hospital,
wood station when a Pcnnylt aula ex.'
pres. train bound Tor Long llranch Wi.rU of Insane Mini,
crashed Into an automnblle The force I An ambul.uiie .lmgil around the
ot the .ollinl.iii threw the engine from I v'riier nnil Surg.on Thor.i.. ,'"'ly
Sprint laUr I'etpJtri tu'tllt M x.
1.I.SIH)S. .lUll. -. Hie IIHICI.il i'lrrr.
"I neie i no desire on Hie part nt uufau Issued the lonomiuK eiiiirinrm
tlf.e women to Irritate In any way the I l().nK,t tegardlni; the visit of a ih-pu-rtn."
t tundltloiis, to tlo any uupatrl- lation of London members of r.trllatuent
c in' or tu any way do a sensational ,0 or, Kitchener, Secretary for Wat.
i The signer are not pro.Hrltlsh , , Arthur ' Huirour, Klrht Lord of the
or .r. .iiermau. iney are pru-miieinnii, .i mlr.ilti'. leganling tne neieiice m i.o-
mted unl by the highest humanltnrlnn
motive
"Let us not deielvo ourselve or hug
to our bosom any delusion n to the
!irf.erltv coming to un from protlt
arising Irom helping to slaughter and
to widow women and to orphan thll
tlten. The tinkle of the bloody dollnr
tamict drown the sound of the groan
nd rrn of misery arlnltig from the
battlefield of I'urope. luteriiatloiial
taw jnay permit It; moral law condemn
it."
?nator Clapp of Minnesota spoke
rest.
"I relieve," Mild he, "sooner or later
"Lord Kitchener ami .Mr. nannm
stated to a deputation of ''!"
Iwr of Parliament tlwt the dllllciillle
In ariaiiglng a satisfactory scheme for
metro)lltan anll-alrcraft ilefence wa
due to the tlellclency In anti-aircraft
material, a tlellclency alo felt In the
fleets nnd armies at the front Klfort
are being made to remedy the short
age with good rttoilt Thev alo mi
nounted that the control of the defence
would be transferred fiom th" Adml
raltv to the War "Mice within thre
week." tii. milled that there ha been a
baby I
had been sleeplns peacefully when ehe
left it. but now .lullu wa moan
ing. HI little thin and mouth and
throat were (.eared, and the blanket and
other roverlng. tucked uroutiu him I .... s..-,(111 i,tch ha Just closed fr-nuentlv hinted at. atthougii detin
showed arid burne along the upper edge. , ,1,.Mf., Vovember II 1 V 1 4 con- cated by the majority of the delegate.
Walking hurriedly away from tfewa op. ne.l .Nov.mner n. n, ' ,.air Smllle. a leader among the
baby carrlase a Mr Clemen came out ' tinning through fourteen month of tliu , miMr r, thH novernmeiit needed
of the candy shop wa a sallow skinned w,,r sinr,- Sepltmber 11. 1915. when It assistance of labor, which wa
man aoout 4. ear.i out
medium
r,f .1...L-
overcoit Mr Clemen paid Utile at-, Lnglanil n.etoiv ann pui inruukti in Will Thome, a Labor member of Par
tentlon to htm at the time, he said the niilli.it . rv u . bill what Im irgarded j!llm.nt moved u,P ,imlslon from the
later She Mid she Iheughl he tner.-l . a the ii.nt i.nllial ileiiartuie fiom .(.ll 'realution of the w..rd 'and In
had stopped for a moment to iiiliinu' . tl.a fundamental LiiKlish ronrtiition of ,.V,M, of ,rrninliig a law decide to agl
hrr bab I tnl!xitlti,il libeiiy sin, e the time "f t,,tP for its r hmI" If the original rt'o
Instrail he had forced down the In- ' Oliver CiomweM . ' lutioti were passed, he said, tile effect
i...i. i vi-i i l, I,,, ...... ,. ih.. t.f, if-,l frovertimerital i t t ... it... ....... ... ..m.i......
lain s uiriiit i-.iruuiir .i-m . . 11.1 1.-. .-i ; , - iiuiiim in- u. iii.iiiiu,- , ii,- ut n .u ,e
n:irt nf Hi., acid thai had not been .rue nf the . ouiitry weattiered b Hie lr,;,... lilili would be a great ' rnnU and luerillv ailiu.tteil eiioi o.
tioiiriil lot i th- babv mouth had . ei n Ui,illtlon Minlstiy. whhh ba emerged Cal.tmitv . Judgment In the rei etit p.it. thai tb
spilled uimn the lower pari nt nine vmih kiimwi ii,-.in,. iui.i mh-hkui nu... i iioru.- amenumem was aoop.t v 1(.ff, t00, rtn sornethltig of a poriic.u
lullilschin and throat ami upor- ine tu, ngiii lor iiiouiui'ii . oni ripnun, mra i i.m.unu vole. againt 1. 1 i.uiiu . , ncirtled bv
lothlng and blanket tucked around the thn atened .it ore tune to caiiee tne AI Al llMiaudel and leingtiet. Social!! ,,, ' ; .,, "' ,. i, i. ,r,i ,i
liahv'n neek duHiifall of the Cabinet. member of lhe trench ChnmWT of "'". ' .'. .,,. , ,
liven when the voting mother bait King t i. ot.e' prorngation speech vva 1 leputlt . w eie pre-" iit at the conference
seen lhe effects of the acid on her re.n I by Harnlt Hue knuuder of Cheddlug- 1 and explained the polllou of the I'reneh
ton, the Lord High t h.invellor. In the Socialist party in a ilereilie war
Ilini- of l.onl. a I uitoinary. before Arthur Henderson, President .if th
the .i-t-enililii! member of limn houses. , Hoard of l..luatlnn. ine t.aimr rejire. ,..,.,, , ,,.r., would never
M-ntiittve In the ablnet. .inl tint since "V. .....
the L.rd Derby tecrillting scheme had
been leopened after the Introductitui of
the military servue bill llil.H; single
men li.nl enlisted. L'5.00fl for direct ser
vile and x.i !"T In the groups.
A resolution will be moved to-morrow
hi the conference that the best interest
the ia'1 and It lolled down on .-mbank. "H" "l"
lliellt.
The dead
ble tint n Ml picked
lllfiniNS I'll V . . .Xtanus.iuati. N .1..
littler of the ,ul.llll.,Ulle
I U : It 1 1 1 1 : N . Tlli Ml S, J..,nK limn. h. en
Klneer Mm. Higglns, w I f e nf u,i. phvslclan,
who wa In the car with linn, I in Anne
.May Hospital ai Spring Lake ami mav
die Otis .Mortis, lhe llrinian nf the
train, w.i also liadl hint. Several
paseenger were cut he thing glass.
l)r Hlgglns wa driving hi car fiom
l.aliewnoii to Ins home on Main neit
Mnii.isfiii.nl. Hhoilly lH.ffire i! n'floek
The King said :
Ml Limns ami lirSTi kmkn : Tor
eighteen month in) nai) and army
have tieen fiigaired in i oni ert with
biave and steadfast nllle. in defelid-
ing on: I'ointnon libeitle and the pub
lic law nf r.uiMpc agalnt unprovoked
ucroai linient by the eiitm.v. I am
sum. lined bv the detet nilnatlon of my
people at home mid oversea to carry
our Hag to a final and ih-clslvc victor).
Ijelltlellien nf the Holle of I olll-
1 tif the nation will be served h the
I Labor party repiesenlatne remaining
I with the coalition ilovernnieut
PRINCIPLES BETTER THAN
PEACE, SAYS PRESIDENT
President Wilson, speaking before the tnon mind and Impulse for the i-ervlce of
Hallway llulnes Association lat night the rountr. And I want upon this firm
, the" Waldorf-Astoria revealed ex- SJ'lMI-i: TCM
actl the wurse he Intend to take when , (1nd It very hard Indeed to a(roach
he hoc west to-night to start a back- , thl subject without very deep emotion.
tire ig.ilnt the Congressmen who have gentlemen, because when we apeak of
, .,,. 1U ,ir,.r,ire.ltie nro. A'''v "ml the thlngn that me to be
be.n tUht.tig hi prepjreitn.s pro. con),wl , her ll0fl!i Jt not cM n
gramme wonderful picture into your mind'-
At the -aine time the Prenileir o America Is )oung still, she Ih not )et
i,''ii'',,"'l!H,d,ow.:r:,'T;;"
e.ueil pleaded for support, m of .011th , pm.r,. ..... .... ,.;.-.
Hill to be ili.uvn from the deep source
fiom which this nation ha alwa)n drawn
Its I'gh'
"Think of the service which those
foi.v i a n nnd must retidei lo the lest
or the wm Id Think nf the position into
which America ha been iliawn. nlmot
In spite of bfiself. ,i the clrcumtante
of the pie t il.ii. Sh,. alone free
'o help Hud things wheuver thev show
lhetii.,ve in Hie worlil And she i
lor. ed. alo. wlieiln-i she will or not, In
tlie decade Immeiliatelv ahead of u,
to furnish lhe woild with itN thief eco
nomic giii.lnnm and niMain
"lt I veiv tit... tn leinetnber what
Ideal- will Im haiii t.f that assistance
Hconnnili nsltnn i nrf H not um .
ssarllt hainlsome i u a legltimaie
thing lo milk nioiiet, hut It 1 not an
Ideal thing to make inonev. Mont
hi lug with II pnw,., which mav be Weil
or 111 eiiiploved And n should he lhe
Pinie oi xinenia iiiwav lo emplov her"
moiiev tn the liiKlie-l purpose And et
llci.islon.lll tie falil tl.illleil out in
striking phras'. s.tiiug lh.it Amet.i.a
wanted peace, but would lievel fill
venlv avoid iniilliit. but the next lulu-
' ule a. mut he was s.i)'.ng thai no iiiav
tu- the nBlesnr
Tli" address was l.iudl) applauded
win re it ton. bed ,.n pn parednes and
Anieilca readln.-i to defend her lights,
hut with brief and languid hand, lapping
wlnn it touched on Mixim
'I I'll of President' lleecll.
. Wll-on had prepated a speis-h In
advance, but at lhe last moment h
up .lullu and cartled him to i window
111 Cotihoy needed onlv it glaii'e to
cause hint to hurt v out to the ambu
lance again for a stomach pump Mte J
Clemens, noting the seilousne of the '
It tor's face, screamed with hysterl t
nnd fainted
I'ntll late In the afternoon ne wa (
Mill loo unnerved to be able to give
to the police of the Simpson Htreet !
Motion nnil ileii-iiives front the Kitth
....-..i. ii.. . l.... r-,.. i'i...... ... I
Iirilinil mil'."! ' " """'"nil ... ..... ...i ....J ..i ..ll ,,r ,.- cnl.
,i ,l..uf.rlt,llnii tell ..I. 1i,.u 1 Mn .IOU OOII n.'ii- '.
l)!cuslng the resolution adopted at ,..,,,,.,.,1 hit. nilnil and spnUe e.xtenipo-
,,, 1 thank v.. 11 for the ungrudging ' the mugres me in. . . s raneou-U He said
hberalltv with which vou have made , "lhe net resiiu t nigiiiv re.iur.ij. ,.T1. ,A,.tlin of niv otllcial dutie)if we atr ,li.,w i ,). mn(.l,irom
pi.ivl.ltui for the l-,eiiv demands of I The prospect ..f seriou trouble 1 d ill (ljVt, ntb u.rn S() ,,.; ,,,lt t ha j (hat now surge in ro-s lhe wnler nnd
.... ' riKedlng and is likely soon to disappear . ,.,rl .....i,,,,, i,ute,.,l thai I could swirls tveu m lhe W..i..r.i ,...i..- ,
aitogeuier me ii.mr- inn...-. ..... .j, nljM,f M, meii a pleauie a inaiiiie iiiuiii, we snail mil he permitted tn
My I .old and H nllemcti. in thl
struggle forciil iiiiiii ti by those who
hold in light eteem the liberties and
........ .i 1,1,-1. w i tic:iri! a sacred.
we will n-'i ! down our arm until j meiit In upiortlng and cooperating with tll)llBi,ifui
we have vindlcateil the intise which
.arrlis Willi it the futuie of clvl!lza-
t...n
senteil at the rviifoience were all for the n,(llll -, ,.,ij0ng t.i-ulghl. It I a I I.e. p u ftee hand to do the high things
vigorous pmseviiiiini in im- " " Ktr,,t ple.tsule to collie atul lie greeieu .. ni t i-i on Anil It nei
tiroved the Uilior Memls-r of IVilla- ,.. hlon bv men so saiv thai we should r-vnnilnp niML.Ii...
iiiselte ami so ueepiy ""' toai we i an mai.e cerlaln
a y.
1 relv Willi ciinllilenec upon the loal
the
"l relieve,- Mild he, 'sooner or later , t' rt,lpl opment of the metiopollt.in
JT the awakened . onsclence of n professed , ' ,tlP taS ,,,!. This d.-
irnnian nauon win sweep nsine tne. -- - , ..v ,,, , ..nntlnulnn find
riv".'E".i ."- - ... ,
the vrogres I not routined to an In
crease of organization of 'nrtlllery. Ad
miral Scott. In charge of the anti-aircraft
defence vvoik. alio ha Improved
arrengements for ilefence by aeroplanes.
NEW AERO Fl7ES LOW.
lophletrles that havo supported the In
tor.flncnclts nnd Ignoble spectacle of
haling one ship with food and clothing
for tvidiw. anil orphan and loading nn
otrer shin with the Instrumentalities
lth whlrh to make more widows and
rrhar.s."
The Cry Krooi thr AVrnt."
Senator Hitchcock of Nebraska, who
IH introduced u bill providing an em- (
birso on munition, Hld he had re-
ce'vM a number of telegrams from rlt
IM'
f.'rrmnn Hexle Mnelilnr ThHt
llnffle .nll-lrcmrt inn.
SpfTial I'ablr Dnpalch tn Tnr Sin
lONPos, .Ian
r Tli rilltor of th"
of Nebraska complaining that ' 'iV,, ,,'r' writes "that lhe Herman have
n6 nt, 'h'N"n,r f"M PrX"d a new form of oeroplane to
overcome the disadvantage oi uyniK m
'tnc agricultural and other prod
l''s fwtr.g to the practically exclusive
tie c Mp for carrying munitions of
tii f'iniljitiitig he said :
" "le ap,f,,,i to the sentiment of the
"i '". th. moral and religious ,en.
tin-m of the country. Is not nufflclent
ti ,i"iU e ,-, tesporislve chord In this body,
'hap thev will listen to the cry
rs' i coining up from the West, where
hlitimite husinffsa Ih being paralyzed by
l absorption nf the oceangoing ves
w of P country In thin damnable
trsftf- ttrin and munitions,
"hau this country be converted Into
J i,tH,.tl!, ml Bnal ,IC legitimate
J'lisir.ess he paralzetl In the West In order
that in llioiialrcs may ho made In the
Mai .-iiirl that munition stocks may
fumbled and trebled and quadrupled
n vaitj. i,v ,,, wno are ,rsnK upon
tnlH country a teritase of hate, even by
)rf nations that are benefited by this
triiji.
" IH fashionable In IhoHo out Ion to
rroi l.t tin that the, Yankees as long os
the enormoiiH neigius niipn i. i"'-
range of anti-aircraft gun 'Ihese
guns have made accurate ghservat'.in
. ... .urn, ..ill.
The new machine Is exreedlliglv f ist,
though perhap not o fast a the l-'ok-ker.
and Is designed to lly below the
line of tire to which nntl-alrcrnft guiw
can bo tralneil and also below the height
at which shell ran he made to hurst
with accuracy This obviously brings
It within the range of rifles and ma
chine gun.
Kor this reason II Is heavily armored
for tho thorough protection of passen
ger, tanks ami engine from small arm
proJertllCH, The wing, propeller anil
tall are obviously Impossible to armor,
hut experience has shown that these
ma.? he perforated hundred of times
without serious effect to lhe machine
The writer learns that such n machine
can be seen legularly III the neighbor
i..i Vnre. The Ilrltlsh have named
It the "copperhelly" owing to the color
told of lhe man the police are now look
Ing for Throughout the icst of th
Kvlileutl) he did lint see lhe tllet for ' day and night the delectlvf roamed
he drove directly In front nf II The 1 The Hrnnx hiking for the man, but
train struck the auto sipjarelv and 1 !,t midnight they hn.l been unable to
hulled It to one side. Dr. Hlgglns. and i 11,1,1 lllm-
lll wife weie thrown twenty feet and "lily inanltv, the poliee believe, could
landed near the track. Occupants of hnve pionipted an net ,o fiendish
another car thai hail slnppeil to await Clemen and hi wife said that they
the passing of the train picked them up bad received no thteatnilng letter and
and rushed them to the Anne Mai Hon- so far a they knew had no enemies
pllalVt Spring Like. . Little .lullu. It wa sold nt the l'nrd-
Tint nltnl ul, ....! ..t .1... ,. .' 1 ll..nlinl h.l ,I,-Vtt ,. t,..r t1 iA
thiown off the track ami ,.fi i..i.... t,i tn. k tlie liihv from Mr ttrohle' , to the intttest of tireal llrllaln and
nlong the tie fnr neaili .. ,,, -,e I fln't. wa hoverltic lie t ween life and , liet alio and in favor of the enemy
a luno ine englll
foot embankment
glneer
,r.i,i,.,i ,,n ,.m,i ni, ii,.. n..,i i n ..-in. i.,rn.,,a t., ,i,ni t ,1,., u it- .nut tfitlai'c them with "un
".ill ill linn. t no i .1 iHHIh i.iei n i, ,. , ,,,,, !,- ,,, ,,, ii ti i iii ,,i
Ilreman cranltd mil of the wreckage cut or In baby ctrrlace., ood in front of I skilled lab"' '
and Inulseil and with possible lntein.il ' the ll.it li"iie 'n Wllken in enun whein. The new session of Parliament will
lnjurle i Clemen live They would talk be opened by the King tn l-cbruary Hi. I
I here weie no paHsenuirs in the Hist fif the hiitror In low tfnie. frighlriii d
jeits. wliu It have nevi r failed me. and
1 ptav that Almighty iou may give i
us Hi blessing. i
The tlrst of the thiee iinporlanl mea. I
nr. re. l iving Ih"' ro.val assent to-day
prov de for the compulsory military
seivlce of all unmarried men of mili
tary age, with certain exception.
Tile second iiupoweis the lloanl of
Trtde in discontinue any huslnesse of
loreign coiiiiectlons within ill eat llril
iiin. doing business cither within C.rcat
Hrllain or ulno.nl. jungcii to of innim-m
the linvernment Tlie inevltalile oppoi- .... .,...,1 lt. wine of the mo-it liiiKirt.int 'oat ine tasks luiposeil Ui..n u. will ii.
tlon to c.impuleioii wa dlied or ny iiileitakit.g of the nation, and I con-1 l"'r 'oi men ami well pet formed
tlie refusal to sanction an agitation for , . ( ,,, iv ,; u-, i, ,,, rmitttd to lay ' America has been reluctant to initch
the repeal of the Hill lt is clear nut n ,,.,,. N(, some of the thing to which '; " "n me test ,)f ,, orI(,
i.i,, si ...i re till nil
It is clear tlut if
1 Mich an agitation i started it w.ll . t
succeed
....m. '.. t. ....ti.iM.it almost Inci.ililile t .o,.ini,.r .1. .
Slinultaneoulv new from the Civile ., .,..w ... hi. It must deiiiand 1 ".nu .yesterday thev were afraid to put
indicate a marked inipiovement In the .... ,!,., ,,n just now is the ipn Mlmi t0i"pr , ' competition with
supply of munition The sk I clearing , , . tulltm.lMl,r ha referred- '!'' ,,r '.'7' '""- 'n lhe world
., mat .1 stand In nc.,1 of r'..i n ,', ,IPM "r,. Luri,,flled4,'L HMnrt
etngiilar mat 1 .v nii'i ic.i . 11, ..r .
; : - .on wuriil
nc can not lunger He a provinctil
1 bod of .lien like thl. it
AUSTRIAN EMPEROR
SINKING, ROME HEARS
nreludice. 11 1 v ery
1 iinestlnii the elements of which ate Ml
Mmplo ami so obvious should have been
so beclouded by lhe discussion of men
I nf high motive, men of inn pose a hand
some ,1 all) OI US III. IV ciann. nun ?'-!
nation.
"Lei no man dare to sav, if he wotilri
speak the truth, that the tiuestion of
iiei.ii,iiion im- national defence t a
Applause,
the engine luinhled down a ten death It Is thought nt the hospital The third permit the t .ovcriiniitit to j .l(Ptll KoilOI't I'll to appareiillv Incapable of till esllng them- question of w ar or of pern . An
ib.inkitient. nillliiK over The . that Hie babv w ill die .lemove skil ed union woiker from the llll '! I h(,h.pii (lf ort nf 1,mvincl:lllnn l'H
wa Instantly frushisl I,, death All through the afletnoon and last le ililll. ult task 111 the iiianufacttii e or 1 ,1 SllfflM'Oll TWO Strokl"- I which cnnMst in thinking the content 1
st coach of tlm train wa mis. 1 night group of mother, most of them 1 supplies esoiit-.il to the carr) ing out 11 1 " 1 1 .,f their n mind m be the .Miitetits of ' 1 """" 'r Pence.
nf Apoplexy.
llnMr, .lan
the tnliid of the world l'or. gentlemen.
while America 1 a verv gieat nation,
while America contain all th" elements
of line force and'acisiinpllshment. Amei-
lteport were received I(.a ,oe not cuisiltiil.' the major part
coach of the iraln, but llinte 111 the ''little bovs anil girl prelng .lose to, ,1 unit UK WILY AGAINST, bv diplomat here to-day to the efiect ( f ti. wnild
iwo coacnes, p.trinr car and coinhlnatlon the mother' sitiri nun listening Unl, that I'mperni I-rutins .mat jni 01 ,wu
car, following, were endangered by tl-I llieti. the mother would walk slowly
ing giasK. .vtter two hours delay an- homeward ai ng me streets or roiinn t
other Until wa made up to take the children
passengeis to their destinations. 1 -
hour eniusJ'rr" U" S-YEII0W' SAYS CANADAM.P.
died of bis Injuries III wife, who I
unconscious, suifer from a fractured
spine, Internal Injuries and Injuile to
the head
The open cioing at which the ncc.
dent occurred I slightly lo the east of
th Allenwood station, at which the
I'eiins.vlvanla llier doe not stop. Al
though It wa nearly dark the view of
the track I unobstructed fnr ome distance
PHrlliiineiit lleni'N lleiMiiiiieeinent
III Sllettre.
"n'.vwv, "III, .Ian. J7 -Tlie I'llilCll
S'late was railed "vellow ' 111 the Cau.t.
ilian Pal llaiiient lo-nlght by Di. .1 W
IMwnrds. Conservative nieiuhei fnr
i b'riintenac. The refeience was in enn
1 uectlon with an attack which Dr I'.M-
I words made upon the Natlouallslh of
"We live in a world which we did
He la icnorled : not make, which we cannot alter, which
lo have suffered two strokiss of apoplexy cannot think into a ililTeieiil condition
It was also tumored that the Vatican fiom that win. h actually exlats. 11
s,,.,M e .e;..neA M Till' Srv bad elvcl advice thai the Austrian would he a Hopeless P e. e 01 imam,
...s ..v. ...m -T - lly at, overwhelm. ' Kmpeior was sinking .ap.d.v lr" .ml '
1111: vote or I.T'iB.ihui to ".pi.nan the eon. ,,....,. rr0ni Itome Tuwdav re. we are at liberty to assume that lb M
feience of Hri.ish tiade imlonlst at A . despa 1. I on ,,ee , of the vco, Id will p. nt.it to enjoy
11.,. run ' r I III I on W I" ' '""' mioiiio...
I ,Ttnl, illlll ii, H I ti, nun.
feience of Hrilisn iiaoe u.....iii-.e ... .. -.. . - -. - - . f , , .,,,, wl ,.,, IM , ,. oy
TZ'-J iZmIS ""ira'surpnsmg ,',,.,... Isr
vote was greeted will, cheers -1 M J "'"W 'J 'V'.llt .hat ...en should allow P'-lsai. fcellnf
lasted fur live minute
also
fling
heart or icisonal ambition to creep in o the
discussion id tin iuiitiaiiieiii.il iiiing.
ci,.. a.mtrirm t'.nineror i lii hi eluhty 'low can American diner iil.nin ine
lr. ...... .itl. tear, having been bom on August safety of Aiiiirica" Applause)
:' MIUIIK.-S1 1. .Il'll ! ' .. . . ,,.. ,A,,.I I f,ie .1,1
fi, II,. e.'. lei) nil III.. C.ivei I1I1I..III ' ... r. . I..ll,,l.. .I.nun.1 lll.lt .llllv, IP. ISdll. lie lii." in.ll
In supple l.r llivnir, Henri Uoiirasea's ' ;( f(,w ,,xlieiuits were In favor of any
i : . . '. ..... - .....
Wli.it the ...nfetonco w II decide to .to I iireaniins n..., ... ...,....-e
..on- that Hie conscription bill ha ne-1 action.
mm,, a law I not clear. A canvass) of
I miners, who niiiii me
r making money out of this i of the nnny. ' J J...HIM "' r '"". hoii.iioii
FRENCH CASUALTIES 2,500,000, I newspaper, . and to ' demand the reslgna- ;.hP ,
I Hon rroiii the mil 1 1 lit service of Col Ar- i llf ,llt,
iamtiiiiii, fommerce will continue It.'
lr Hitchcock declared It to be a
i"i ' of purely domestic concern
heuier or not the United Btates; Im
Vfne.i ui, emhaigo on munltlonn.
Uf tan he neutral and permit this
fi'itnigefiiiB trade under International
' satil Mr. Hitchcock, "but wo can
ilo nu neutral and piohlblt It. No
"' has a right to demand that
i Mb.t it, no tfiunlry has the right
( onifiiiicfl on Fourth I'npe.
rlnehttral, N, C, realr f auldoar tparMb
Rati) Carolina. Holly Inn. fJarautilr. Nw
Wt.-il'v.
ued to locate Kngllsh batteries,
nf These Were .Killed.
LoNiniN-. .Ian 27 M. Louguet,
a So.
nT s a tut ovrn'irtjninjn
CAliLtUltniA """"""""Irlallst Deputy In Hu, I'ren.l. Chamber.
. h. i ivii l)nj U real. ' made the talenient befor- the lahor
Urcond slloriii In "" " ; ,,,,..,.,. , Mrlslol this nfteinoon that
.Much l) I Craiue's losses during lhe war totalled
Los Anoei.ks, .Ian. 27 Another lecoid
unow and tain storm, the second within
forty-eight hours, struck smithem Cali
fornia In-day.
Steam nd electric Untile again Is
paralyzed, inurli ilnmago ha been doin.
and many are In peril from the floods,
The barometer dropped lower than ever
before In the history of this section.
The
.r.iln. nun men
When Inlet counted on lhl iiletlnii bv
SOlie OI HI.' LIU"! nr.. --. l.r . nifll l,,r.l In ulleiUC
that SOO.nnn .'ieuch olill"i had been W,IH ll0',ri1
mileil, I. inn. iiiiii wnuuiieii anil .iiMi.iiuii
made prloner
MAKIII lillAH. NKW OIII.RAMM. I0IS.
(tni'Tiii-iitN iiaii.wav ."inc.- ;n rth
Ave., will glvc-ynu Informatlott. .trfr.
And I, for my p.nt. am ambitious
for slxlv-seven years. Alarming re- mat ..in-n. .i eimnm .. i...... ... .
,,,. ,., r.. ,lill i '. 1 1 1 iti .r ll.un I h. L.'11'.l! tin-
llieasil i'S n prevent to- .' ." I nliout the aKe.l Kmperor'H heallll and for In ns ill the i.tll-l ude i f the water iiuve
hill 'lie 1WO icsiiiuiii.iis inrsen - .-' . .. , ...! l I ,,n,l,, Iii a t t n. lie ceivnl i nniltl e
jesterdny. Pledging suppoit In the prose- J ?,rj0 ; (,v,, , r,.lW,,r0,i from men. without distinction of paity. have
cutlon of the war nnd supporting the ... ;. linI)uncement was made diawu together in accomplish a sue-
action of nieinbem of the Labor l,;,,,' I,.,..p time liter that h bid addressed a ,eshful prnsecullou of the war. Is it
In Joining with the tlovernnient III re- , ' . . . f ,, pi,lu.P. ot u more illlllcult and a inure desirable
cruinni! iilaiiH. Indicate that the majority rrow" " ,hig that all Amei leans should put pai-
of the delegates aie loyal. )j-i Ilrltlsh l.iie 4-n. .tisan prepossisslnii asule and draw to.
When the delegates assembled for the' ' gelher for the successful prnsrcutltin of
i .i....u ...uln.. lliev r.iiiml lun .s'fiecifi Vahlt le.intfrfl tn " III SI v " , . , ,iiu,i,,. , ,,, r. l.......
I fear (lerinany would Indign nnh re- I rniuii,,,,' on the table designed to tep. Lonpon'. .Ian, 27 The otllcial Ilrltlsh !,, ,,,, , i,i,vl. that Anient a i'gi.iici
Hise ... ...... nt tin. i.ii-lnii siiL'tieslliin that had ensualtv list issued lo-flay contain the I ,,, .,i,... li 11 1 illstliietlon I Antilausel.
Iifeietne to the lulled State.,..'. , , ,,-,,,.,1 inaction on the ,,,,,,.. r 3ii otllcers. of whoill Hi were , , n .- ,1 1 1 i.l.r nf ih.
! cniisi ilntlon iiie.tlnn. ' killed, and of M men. of whom 57 were tein,i,Vi,.,,u mnmi II t ' in lln- lluui. of
kllleil Kcpii'si'iiiatives uenverci a Mieccu inai
Miowcd that ho was ready, and I lake
ICH'H TWAINS TO Fl.lllilDA. . n (r granted that thn men bflilnd him
rno.l HtlrHi llva route. Inqulr. 1114 II wB). . .. . .,
nintiil LaviTgne. Ilourassa lieutenant
"I siiggiel lo the Hoi eminent," said
Dr. IMwanl. "Hut negotlalloii be
opened with Herman)' thioiiglt China,
tin. I'nlleil State or some other yellow
nation to exchange Lavergne, loijrasa
and SVnatnr Chofiuelle for Dr lleland.
M P, now- a prisoner In llerlin, though I
M.KAIt ll.Wt AT A-HIKVII.I.R. N. f'
t Hti ilgreeitiie fettltirii nlmul the rltninle
mill li. i ilmilit t on I rl tin! c Inrcely to Its
rent populrliy rennrl Infiirmatlon,
V, T Office HOUTHrlRN UAH, WAT, IM
Klfth Ale. .1 aa-.
The liist lead as follows!
Ilrsnlirtl, That thl national labor
party luolesl cniphiillcitll) agalnsl
the niloptloii nf conscription In any
form, us It Is ncnlnst the spirit of
-Adv.
ii i in re nne p assail more deep
seated in the heart of our fellow conn
trymen than another, it I the pamio.,
for pea. e No tiallr.n in the world evet
more itistm. 'lively tinned away from th.
thought of wat than tin. nation to
xx tilt Ii tv" belong Partly hrcause. I-.
thu plenitude of its power. In Hi tin
restricted area of it opportunities r
ha found nothing to covet In the '..iS.
session nn.l power of other nation
"There i no sp.t i ,,f aggrandizem.
In Ann rlc.i. Tin re if nn desire no u .
pari of ,'inv thnuglitfiil and innscientlo i.
American man to t ike u:,e foot of ferr
lory from iinv nation in the world
I Applause And I niv-flf shaie n the
iKittom of niv heart that profound ln.
for peace I have sought li ni.nnt.iin
peace against vry great and sninetltn.
very unfair odd, and 1 ant reaiiv i
any tune to use every power that Is In
me to prevent such a ci t n st r. ) . j as
war finning upon thl coun'ry.
"So thai it i not permls,hle foe
any man lo sav with anxiety that tim
ilefen. i. of Hie nation has lhe least ting
m it of ileHiie for power which can h
tistil to Inlng on win Hut, gentleinei ,
t.i.in i MimethliiK that t")e Atueriea'i
peopl.i love better than they hue, ., r-
They love the jinnclpleH upntt wnieh
their political 1 i ft I founded. They nr.
ready at any time to light far the ttti
ilication of their characler and of their
hotioi They will nt no tlui.. eeeii a
csititest, but they will at no t'.m
cravenly avoid It fAppbuie ) Ib-eau.
If there. I nno th'ng that Hi" countri
ought to IlKht for and I hat ever) na
tion ought to light for It i.- the In
Icgrlty of lis own couv ictio.n We ca-i
not siiricnilir .in eanv id, .i t wnu '
raltlK r siiret.ilii t-'ii.tor i t jnv .
i
