iiSMiM"wfy:-','WJ'"
K m&"vrfigg7-?'-fKfl ' , ,
F
NIGHT
EXTRA
. i ,.
VOL. II.-NO. 117
ltttetima
NIGHT
EXTRA
'(J
T3
I
i
PHILADELPHIA, FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, L!)10.
CorTRioiiT, 1010, bi Tnn Pernio LEDont CoitrANT.
PRICE OKEOENO?
INANCIAL EDITION
'- e
I
it
I
K
i
i
Cfe1
NAMING OF LOUIS BRANDEIS,
"TRUST-BUSTER," TO SUPREME
BENCH SETS SENATE A-WHIRL
Wilson Appoints Noted
Laborers' Advocate
to Fill Lamar Va
cancy in Court
Fight Freely Predicted on Con
firmation of Lawyer, Born in
South, Resident of Boston.
Overman Incensed
WASHINGTON, Jnn. 28. President
Wilson today sent a bomb to tho United
States Semite In the form of bis nomina
tion of Louis D. llt-nudels, famous "trust
buster," to succeed the lato Justice Lnmnr
on tho United States Suptcme Comt
bench. Tho bomb exploded.
With tho reading of tho nomination
Senators started for tho cloak rooms. To
them It was tho biggest sensation of tho
session.
A bitter light on Brnndels' confirma
tion Immediately was predicted. No Sen
ator woud bo ciuotcd as ready to oppose
confirmation, but many said thoy expected
to seo opposition.
Somo Senators said they believed the
President had appointed him for his cco
om'c rather than for his legal quali
ties. Ho has appeared before tho Senate
many times; In the lialllngcr-Pinchot
controvcry, on tho PInchot side; in rail
way Investigations, wncro ho made tho
statement that tho railways, under efll
clent management, could save $1,009,000 n
day, and li the money trust and other
hearings.
Brnndels, so far ns Is known, Is tho
first man of Jewish blood to bo appointed
to the Supremo bench.
THE "PEOPLE'S FRIEND."
The Influence ot this blood brought him
early In his cnieer In touch with men of
his race exploited in sweatshops and un
der advorso employment conditions and
enlisted his sympathies with tho labor
ing man. The brief prepared by him and
Josephine Goldmnrk, his slstcr-in-law,
and presented by him before the United
States Supreme Court In the Oregon
minimum wage law nrgument, has been
regarded ns one of tho finest pleas ever
mado for better laboring conditions.
Hrandeis recently published a volume,
"Other People's Money," aimed nt tho
abuse of tho banking powcr'nnd credit by
the so-called money trust.
Brandcls Is u medium-sized man, lean
and wiry. Ilia very black hair Is streaked
with gray. Though a Kcntucklan by birth,
his speech has a noticeable New England
twang through long resldenco In Mnss.i
. chusctts.
Leaders predicted tho Brandcls nomi
nation would provoke a bitter tight In
the Senate. Somo of the President's
gtanrhest supporters, while making no
formal statements, did not conceal their
indignation over the appointment.
Senator Overman, of North Carolina,
acting chairman of tho Judiciary Com
mittee, to which tho nomination was im
mediately referred, Is leported to resent
Intensely tho President's action.
ItEGARDED AS RADICAL.
Many of tho conservative Republican
Senators will violently opposo confirma
tion of the nppointment. They regard Mr.
Itrandols of the ultra-radical typo and
recall his nctvities against tho railroads
during the recent advance rate cases be
foro tho Interstate Commerco Commission
for which Mr. IJrandcls acted as special
counsol-
Mr. Brandcls was In Washington this
morning President Wilson, It was
learned, has been In communication with
him and friends of tho Administration
said lato today thut thoy felt certain that
he would accept tho nomination. They
pointed out that President Wilson had
been urged to name Brandels Attorney
General when he (Wilson) was electod
and that at that time tho friends of the
Administration had canvassed the Sen
ate and found that the domination could
bo confirmed.
Tho nomination was sent by tho Presi
dent to the Senate shortly after 1 o'clock
and created n sensation In that chamber
where almost overy Democratic membor
had committed himself In favor of one
candidate or another for tho place. South
ern Senators who bollovcd the place would
go to some Southern Jurist, Justice Lamar
having come from the South, were espe
cially startled.
BRANDEIS HAS ARGUED
MANY IMPORTANT CASES
Won National Prominence, Political
and Otherwise
Louis Dembltz Brandels, acclaimed as
Herzl's sucessor as leader of the Zionist
movement, was born at Louisville, Ky.,
Continued en 1'use Two, Column Six
THE WEATHER
No one has any illusions about his own
Profession. The doctor has less faith In
medicines than his patients. The artist
Is more .practical about art than the
worshipers thereof. It Is time that wo
weather men admitted the same thing.
We have no Illusions about weather
records. When we sometimes confer with
that able professional weather forecaster
at the Postoffice, we rather laugh at the
public's gullibility together. "Oh, yes."
he'll say, "call It the worst blizzard since
'S8. It probably Isn't, but there's no harm
In saying so; no one'll know the differ
ence.1' It's the same way with these
tales about spring weather In January,
and about this being the warmest winter
since 1S02. As a matter of fact, In spite
of all abnormal spells, the average tem
perature for each winter, "mild" and
"severe " Is about the same. It evens up.
There'll be enough cold weather later on
to put this winter n a par with any
other. It's Just a fairy tale, all this about
"new records" In climate.
Though perhaps It's unwise to admit It.
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity 7n
settled and colder tonight and Satur
day; moderate west and northwest
Winds,
For details see page 15.
tOST AND FOUND
CfuTlFl ic ATBflT MirabertUp No. 1331 fa tSjj
CoBiniercUl Kxchanze of FWUuliilphUi, la
tutU jbj hereby itlvwi that ttPpUcfttion ha
hktfti ma A. tcx- m nftW L'CrtlflcUt.
C II
BELL.
Pl'lfV t ... ,. alolalA nutiDV.
Kctward
. Jf returned i32 S. 2ii t .
,Slfcr CtatilAvi i.i o faatt li. it oJ It
Brandcis Great Lawyer;
Opponent of Railroads
Brandcis ilrst mnn of Jewish
fnith to bo nnmctl to Supremo
Court bench.
Well known in legal world.
Since 1897, when he beenmc
senior member of firm of Hrnntlcls,
Dunlmr & Nutter, he was promi
nently connected with mnny im
portant litigations, including the
BntlinRer-Pinchot invcstiKntion.
Wns chairman of Hoard of Arbi
tration in big garment workers'
strike in New York in 1010.
Was counsel for shippers in ad
vanced freight rate investigation
before Interstate Commerce Com
mission. Was counsel for people in pro
ceedings involving the constitu
tionality of the Oregon and Illi
nois 10-hour laws for women.
He is CD years old.
Known as the "poor man's
luwycr."
Years ago announced he was
through trying to make money.
Estimated then ho had less than
a quarter million dollars. Hut he
declared that was enough.
Leader in movement to bring tho
Jews in Russia and Armenia back
to Palestine.
NAMING OF BRANDEIS
CAUSES SURPRISE AND
JOY IN PHILADELPHIA
Appointment Reveals Breadth
of View of President Wil
son, Says Rabbi
Krauskopf
CALLED MASTER STROKE
Politicians, lawyers, business men and
men in all walks of llfo In Philadelphia
today expressed suiprlso and interest In
President Wilson's appointment of Louis
D. Brandcls to the United States Supremo
Court.
Tho 'hews of tho nppointment was re
ceived with Joy by the leading Jews of
tho city, in view of tho fact that this Is
the first time In tho history ot tho coun
try that a Jew has been elevated to
tho Suprqmo bench.
Prominent Jews, who wero Interviewed,
declared that tho appointment revealed
tho breadth of mind of President Wilson.
They predicted that tho nppointment
would be helpful to tho Jewish pcoplo nil
over the United States.
Ruhbl Joseph Krauskopf said:
"This elevation of the first Jew to tho
United Stntes Supremo Court Is a master
stroke on tho part of President Wilson.
"Mr. Hrandeis Is a world authority on
matters appertaining to railroads and la
bor, nnd his Influence nnd knowledge In
these matters on tho bench will bo a ben
efit to the wholo country.
"Ho has made a llfo study of these
two subjects and when a labor case and a
railroad case come before him, it Is cer
tain that lie will bo able to render a de
cision on the basis of accurate knowledge
of conditions.
"Tho appointment of Mr. Brandels Is n
gicat stroko for tho working people, of
this country. Mr. Hrandeis loves tho peo-
,ple. liver since ho wns a very young
man ho has labored conscientiously for
tho people. In the bigness of his heart ho
has spent his time and money to nid in
the uplift of tho masses.
"Mr. Brandels has tho Judicial tempera
ment nnd he is particularly suited to tho
Supreme Court bench. Ho Is deserving of
this great honor, for he has done somo
wonderful work for tho Democratic party.
I was disappointed because President
Wilson did not make him n member of the
Cabinet, but now I seo that all the time
the President Intended to reward Mr.
Brnndels."
Kx-Judgo Meyer Sulzberger said:
"Mr. Brandels Is a man of ability, nnd
II am glad to learn of his nppointment.
It gives evidence that President Wilson
does not consider creed or nationality In
selecting men for public office."
Alexander Simpson, who is considered
bv mnny to bo second only to John G.
Johnson among Philadelphia lawycis, was
asked his opinion of the appointment of
Mr. Brandels.
"Personally, I do not know him," he
said; "but from what I have heard, of
Mr. Brandels I believe he will becomb a
Supreme Court Justice of the highest
standard. I bellevo ho has In him the
ability to make him as great a Justice
as Justice Hughes."
SOLO VAL0NA SARA'
DIFESA DALL'ITALIA
La Baia e l'Hinterland, Solida-
mente Fortiflcate, Possono
Resistere agli Attacchi
IItalla e gll alleatl hanno declso dl
abbandonare agll austro-bulgari tutta n
tera 1'Albanla o dl dlfendere si soltanto
la bata dl Valona ed II sul Immedlato
lilnterland. Dl space! da Roma dtcono
che una Importante battaglla e' da at'
tenders! fra una .qulndlclna dl glornl at
torno a Valona, giacche' auetrlacl e but
Burl avanzano rapldamente e senra In
contraro reslstenza verso la cltta' che e'
occupata da notevoli force Italiane e che
e' statu ben fortltlcata, SI dice pure che
non e' imposslblle che la squadra austrl
aca tentl dl usclre dal suol portl e cooper
are all'attacco dl Valona, ma se esce essa
sara' subito attaccata dalle forze navall
degli alleatl che eono grandemente supe
rior) a quelle austriache.
II generale Cadoroa ha annunciate nel
suo rapporto dl lerl che su tutta la front e
vt e' grande attivlta" dl artlglierla e che
gll aud triad hanno. certamente per Isbag
lo, bombardato rlpari e posti dl osser
vazlone delle loro stesse triippe ed anche
una colonna austrlaca che avanzava ver
so II ponte settentrionale dl Gorilla, all
Italian! hanno Invece guadagnato terreno
nello vlcinanio del la cblesa dl San Mar
tino, at pledl del Monta Ban Mlcnele.
(LegKtre In a paeina, le ultlme e plu'
dttagliate notlzls sulla guerra. In Ital
ians.) i
ZIONIST LEADER FOR SUPREME COURT
oi"Tlulil bv Cllnntlnat.
Louis D. Hrandeis, of Boston, was today appointed Associntc
Justice of the United States Supreme Court, to succeed Justice Lamar.
WIDOW AND CHAUFFEUR
BALKED TWICE BEFORE
FINALLY WED AT SHORE
Mrs. Elizabeth de Silver and
Lumb Tried for License in
New York, Then Waited
Day in Atlantic City
BETS ON MARRIAGE PAID
Obstacles only Increased the determina
tion of Mrs. Elizabeth Riser Do Silver, n
handsome widow of wealth, and Harry
Lumb, her chauffeur, who were married
In Atlantic City after a romantic court
ship, which stlned all Wissahlckon.
Lumb, the chauffeur, who lived in Itldgo
avenue, not only guided her to safety
nn their dally trips, but also to happiness.
It appears, and word of the wedding
which readied here todav wns not alto
gether a surprise. Mrs. Do Silver Is tho
widow of Joseph Do Silver, who was
famous as a Pennsylvania football player.
When Mrs. De Silver disappeared from
her handsome home, at i Sumac street,
a few days ago, and Lumb was missed
nt the same time, bets were freely mado
that tho wedding bells were sounding
nearby.
An especially speedy auto was engaged
and tho couple, wealing expansive smiles,
started for New York city. They reached
there last Sunday and learned to their
chagrin that the marriage license buie.iu
only did business six days u week.
An extrn supply or gasoline was ob
tained, and, with Cupni guiding the wheel
and his brlde-to-bo by his side, Lumb,
who is also known as "Handsome Harry,"
sped to Atlantic City.
But on reaching tho clty-by-the-sea
cruel laws added another Jolt to the io
munce. It wns learned that non-Jersey
residents must wait 21 hours after taking
out. a license on Jersey soil. It seemed
a long 21 hours, too, but a ride In n wheel
ing chnlr along the Boardwnlk, with the
waves echoing their appiovnl as they
broke over tho beach, somewhat relieved
tho situation.
On tho last stroko of tho 21th hour
tho couple wero boforo the Ilev. C. D.
Slnkinson, pastor of Christ Methodist
Protestant Church, of Chelsea, .who per
formed the ccicmony.
THE GREAT POWDER ROMANCE;
A TRUE STORY OF STRONG
MEN AND THEIR MILLIONS
Pierre S. du Pont, Lion of Great Enterprises, Amassed
Tremendous Fortune, While Wealth of Coterie
Around Him Would Have Made Croesus
Green With Envy V,.
You have read of "war-bride" fortunes before, but did you ever realize
the magnitude such fortunes have reached? One man has made $20,
000,000 in ten months, another, who was at one time a stenographer, is
now building a $1,00,000 residence. You will learn of other remarkable
changes of caste and fortune in the following story, telling how some of
the du Fonts and their associates have undergone the "get-rich-quick"
process with surprising facility.
By HENRY H. LOOS
Copyright, tftS,
ARTICLE IV.
THE prosperity of Wilmington, Del., as
a result of the huge munition orders
placed with E. I, du Pont de Nemours
& Co. by the Allies, has been a subject
dilated upon at great length of late. The
public, or that part of It not living In
Wilmington, Ib given to believe that this
staid old town has suddenly been trans
formed Into a wonderful metropolis, only
to be rivaled by the celestial city said to
He beyond the peurly gates "over yonder."
As a matter of fact, there Is little In
Wilmington to suggest the City Celes
tial. The streets are notpaved with gold
(although a few boast asphalt), nor Is
there a superabundance Jf JM0O limous
ines and million-dollar pnlaces visible to
Indicate the prolUs incident to "war
bride" speculation.
The approach to the central part of the
city Is by po means- prepossessing, The
railroad station, situated at the lower end
of the town, periodically disgorges a small
army of persons who Hock toward an an
tiquated trolley, which has apparently
been awaiting the arrival of the train.
Strangers to the city may readily be
"spotted" by the question with which
the conductor of the car Is bombarded.
It Is, "Dp you go to the du Pont Build
Inst' That question almost summarizes the
city of Wilmington. The du Pont Build
ing la the building. It is such a building
mi nnv city in the world would be oroud
to boast It not only houses the caicesl
COLLEGE PRESIDENTS
DENOUNCE RECRUITING
OF SCHOOL ATHLETES
Places Premium on Physical
Rather Than Mental Abili
ties, Says Head of Al
lentown Institution
DEMORALIZES SCHOOLBOY
Tho migration of students from one i nl
lego to another for nthletlc considerations
nnd tho rei rultlng of colleges. In Hie
schools with nn eye to getting' students
who were piomlnent for theli uthletl'c
lather than Tor their scholastic ability
are two evils Hint weio roundly de
nntiiRi'il today at the nnuu.il meeting ot
the Association of College Ptesldents or
Pennsjlvanln. Provost Smith, the presi
dent, preslded'ut the meeting In Houston
Hull.
Dr. J. A. W. Halves, president of Alien
to ivn College, said that the preparatory
and secondary sebools of the country wero
being demoralized by this M-aich for ath
letes among theli students. The boys
get to know that "Vale Is after tills font-
ball player," or "IVnnsylvnnia after that
trark man," nnd while tin- uuest la con
ducted honorably enough, often tho emis
saries who ask tho piomWiii' young ath
letes to eomo to their college ignore ab
solutely tho mental equipment ot tho boys,
and so tend to lower standards of scholar
ship. "Tho big colleges and universities put
a premium on nthlctlcs," said Doctor
Hawcs. "Tho question of reform comes
up every year among college authorities,
but it is only an annual intellectual pas
time. Wo should tako nctlon now. Tho
lido now in force in somo Institutions of
making a year's resldenco ns a student
compulsory beforo a student can represent
a college on a team should bo enforced
everywhere."
Dr. Edwin Erie Sparks, president of
Stato College, said that tho whole nth
letlc system should bo reorganized.
A committee to Investigate tho evil and
icport was appointed. It Includes Doctor
Hawcs, Dr. William A. Ornnvlll, of Alle
gheny; Doctor Sparks, Dr. William I.cn
hardt, of Pittsburgh, and Dr. Isaac
Sharpless, of Ilnverford.
of K. I du Pont de Nemours & Co.,
but also those ot the more thriving
Industries of the city, and in addition to
this comprises a hotel 'with appointments
and service unexcelled by the leading
hotels of New York and Philadelphia.
There are other offlce buildings and
hotels In Wilmington; many of them
"near skyscrapers," but they are of a
character which only, emphasizes the
magnltlcence of the one; built and owned
by the, powder company., Tho new nrrival
In the city approaches the hotel by way
of Market street, which Is lined with a
series of buildings comprising every form
of business enterprise, from pawnshop to
department store. The outlook has been
anything but pleasing, and then suddenly,
there is tho du Pont Building.
There is an ulr of mystery about this
oasis In the desert of Wilmington. The
plain clothes guards at the elevators, the
detectives In the hotel lobbj, everything
conspires to give the, impression that
every one Is being carefully watched.
This impression Is heightened by the
casual warning that if there Is to be a
telephone conversation It might be wejl to
use an assumed name, or that If you are
to check the handbag or valise you carry
it would be well to be. careful where it
Is done, or the contents may be mysteri
ously overhauled.
The guests at the du Pont Hotel are
Interesting. In the lobby may be seen a
CcoUnatd eu rf Mve, Column One
ALLIES LOOSEN
GRIP ON ALBANIA;
HOLD AT AVLONA
Evacuate All Territory
Except Avlona and
Hinterland
TEUTONS NEAR DURAZZO
Fall of Northern Port Immi
nent Rumania Believed
Pro-Ally
IIO.ME, Jnn. 28.
Albania, with tho exception of tho port
of Avlonn nnd the immedlato lilnterland,
Is being evacuated by tho Allies.
Austro-ltungnrlati troops have captured
the Albanian town of Alesslo and nro
ncnrlng Duritzzo. iiceoidlng to word re
ceived by the Italian rinvcriimcnt today.
With tho nrrtiiMtliiii of luni7.zn tlu Teu
ton forccH will be In control of alt north
ern Albania.
It was olllcinllv admitted lieio today
that the fall of Durnzzo Wns Imminent.
Ilssed Pasha, lender of tho Albanian
forces, has withdrawn from the city, pre
ferring to make n stand nt a. point more
favorable fur his little army.
Italian forces hold strongly fortified
positions nt Valona (Avlona). Heavy Aus
tilan itiul ltulg.irian detachments are clos
ing In upon the seaport from the north
nnd the east. They tire meeting with
little resistance. Olllclnl dispatches le
ceived hero today Indicated that the nt
tack on Valona nnd nno of tliu most
Important battles of the lt.ilkan struggle
may begin lthln a fortnight.
The Austrian licet In nil luoliablllty will
attempt to pnitleipnte in the engagement
by shelling Vnloim from tho Adriatic.
In tills event nn encounter with the Allies'
squadron is certain to bring perhaps tho
greatest naval light of tho war.
All .Serbians, Montenegrins nnd Alban
ians who would not surrender to tho Aus
trian Invaders are being transported to
the Greek Island ot Corfu as rapidly as
Allied transports can reach them, or be
ing moved southward to join tho Italians
nt Valona.
Within 10 days the Austro-German-Ilul-gar
occupation of the entire Balkan Pen
insula to tho Greek frontier will bo com
plete. Tho Allies, however, nre deter
mined to hold Vnlona as they now bold
Salonica on the enstorn side of the pen
insula. Both are strategic positions ot
tho greatest value.
Tho Austrian nro now piesslng steadily
down the Adriatic, planning to unito with
the Bulgarians moving westward throuKh
tho Klbassan district, for n. joint drive
snuthwnid upon Valona.
-o fear Is felt here for the safety of
tho Italian expeditionary force at Valona.
The Italians hold a moro favorable posi
tion at Vnlona than do tho Anglo-french
at Kalonlca, and it Is strongly fortitlcd.
If the Austrian navy sorties out of Cat
tarn harbor It will encounter Immensely
superior allied squadrons In the Adriatic.
FIFTY-SEVEN SHADES
OF WEATHER IMPOSED
ON COUNTRY II? A DAY
Sweltering in Philadelphia and
Freezing at 54 Below Zero
in Many Western
Sections
COLD WAVE IS COMING
A Potpourri of
Weather for U. S.
Warm nnd humid, flowers and
trees buddinp Philadelphia and
Atlantic senboard.
Eight inches of snow and 40
mile pair Duluth, Minn.
$100,000 cyclone, followed by
deluge of rain Belleville, III.
Floods, with rivers rising Ar
kansas. Heavy sleet storm, rivers ris
ing Northern Wisconsin.
Downpours of rain Los An
geles, Cal., and Southwest.
Blistering hot New Orleans
and Texas.
Far below zero Bismarck, N.
D and Helena, Mont.
Deep snows Entire Northwest,
as far south ns Kansas City.
High winds and floods, cutting
off communication Southern Cali
fornia and Arizona.
8 A. M. TEMPERATURES AT
RANDOM
Philadelphia, 54. Helena, 30 below,
Atlanta, 00. Bismarck, 30 bel.
Chicago, 2G. New Orleans, 04.
Denver, 0. Omaha, 2 below,
Galveston, CI.
The entire gamut of weather heat,
cold, cyclone, hurricane. Hood, snow,
sleet, rain Is being played today through
out the country, marking the progress of
van and rearguard cif tho Western cold
wave toward this city, which continues to
gasp under record-breaking warm weather
for January.
Today marks tho end of an eight-day
period of unprecedented weather for this
season, according to the Weather Bu
reau's calculations, for the cold wave is
due to strike rtillauelphla tonight, with
temperature near freezing tomorrow
morning. During tho last eight days, end
ing tonight, the mean temperature has
been 61.5 degrees, far above any other
figure for the same period of January on
record.
Smiles and curiosity greeted "the flrkt
straw hat of winter" on Chestnut street
today. The wearer, a tanned Individual,
evidently had Just stepped from a railway
coach. Although he attracted comment,
no one attempted to follow him as he
serenely walked down the street, for he
was 6 feet tall and looked as If he
weighed 209 'or so pounds.
In btrange contrast to our budding flow
ers and trees come reports from the West
of M degrees below zero at Havre, Mont,
the lowest point reached In the last 21
hours. Heavy snowfall was recorded as
far south as Kansas City, and large prop
erty damage throughout the West is re
ported. With cities and towns marooned and
hundreds of families homeless, orange
tree uprooted by a gale and property
Costumed eu l'sse Xu( Column Set en
QUICK NEWS
VILLA REPORTED IN SANTA CLARA VALLEY
WASHINGTON, Jnn. 28. Confidential dispatches to tho Dtato
Department, from El Fato this evening; repotted that Villa, with 100
of lilu followers, have been located in tho Santa Clara valley, noith
west of Chihuahua. A stioiifr force of Cnrraiizlstas are approaching
his retreat, uccoldiiig to the me&sagc.
MINERS TO ERECT MONUMENT TO COLORADO DEAD
INDIANAPOLIS, Intl., Jnn. 28. The United Mine Workers to.
day adopted n resolution that a monument be erected at Ludlow, Col,,
to tho memory of women and children massacred during' the recent
strike there. The recommendation that the convention go on rccold
against local btrikes, uulesu us a litbt resoit and approved by the
proper officials, wus adopted.
BRITISH WAR FREIGHTER GOES DOWN
NKW VOl tlC, Jan. 2S. Tho Urltlsh freighter Chaschlll, 4583 tons, which
loft New Vork on January 13 for Havre, has gone to the bottom, according to
word lirotiKht heru today by tho British steamship Indraloma, Tho ChusohlU
carried war supplies to 'ratico.
LUTHERAN COLLEGE FUND REACHES $G1,653
The $100,000 educational campaign fund being raised this week by
Lutherans of the city for their Thoologlcnt Seminary and Muhlenberg CollCBO
wns augmented todny by J 1452, bringing tho total for tho Ilvo days' work to
S6I.Gn3.-IS. Tomorrow, the last clay of the campaign, will bo devoted 'chiefly
to telephone- cnmpiilgiilng. Every worker has been urged to call every person
be or she knows for the purpose of getting tho remaining $10,000 by tomorrow
night.
HERLIN IJURGOMEISTER DISCOUNTS PEA'CE TALK
BERLIN, Jnn. 28. German newspapers today make prominent mention of
a speech delivered by thc ritinjomclstor of Berlin, Ilorr Wcrmtith at tho cclo
brntinn of tho Kaiser's birthday. In his speech the Lord Mayor said:
"Tho Emperor and tho pcoplo will lltui their best reward for their activity
and prpspvei-auce In pence. But now wo do not long for peace. Tho enemy
started the war in order to destroy tho countries in tho heart of Europe.
Whenever the enemy gives up und concedes dereat then tho action wo tako
will glvo us an Immortal place, of honor in history.
"Whenever tho central powers conquer now territory our cnomies explain
this by talking of our "despondency." Thereforo our country does not talk
of peace; does not yearn for peace."
AFRICAN LINER FEARED, LOST; CARRIED 300
LONDON, Jan. 28. Tho African liner Appnm, carrying moro than 300
persons. Is missing and Is feared to have sunk nrt the Moroccan coast. No
word has been received hero ry offlcinls of the Elder & Dempster Company
this afternoon of tho fate of tho 200 passengers and moro than 100 membcra
of the crew.
Crowds of anxious relatives besieged the line offices hero nnd at Liverpool
when reports camo from Hull that tho steamship Tregantio had encountered
one of the Appam's empty lifeboats. Though tho Appnm Is n week overdue,
officials said thoy had not entirely given up hopo that the Appam may yet
reach port.
Later advices from Liverpool said tho Appam carried about 200 passengers
in addition to her crow of about 100.
,
CHANGE IN CZAR'S POLICY FORECAST
BERLIN, Jnn, 28. Tho Overseas News Agency today quotes tho Russian
newspaper Russkoyo Slovo as stating that President Rodzlanko, of tho Duma,
recently wrote Premier Goremykin that conditions in Russia mado changes of
policy imperative and that tho premier called a meeting of tho cabinet at which
it was decided to lay the mattor beforo tho Czar.
"Goremjkin," tho Overseas Agency comments, "probably will Insist that Jt
is impossible to convene tho Duma, tho majority in which Is opposed to tho
Russian Government,"
"GHOST" WALKS TOMORROW FOR CITY EMPLOYES
Tho .ranunry pay warrants for all county and city employes, except police
men, firemen nml per diem men, have been approved by Controller Walton and
will bo paid tomorrow and Jlonday, The j:rymi'nts will a&TKresato moro than a
million dollars. Thoso whoso warrants luivo not been approved will bo paid
next week. Next month the new system of semi-monthly payments to all
city and county employes will ko Into effect.
CALIFORNIA ARRIVES AFTER PERILOUS VOYAGE
NKW YOniC, Jan. 2S. After passing through days of peril from sub
marines and storms, tlio Anchor liner California arrived hero today from
filasprow threo clnys lute. Sho brought 2,10 passengers, practically all of
whom wero henslck during the voyage.
Tho California was hold up in Liverpool one day becnuso of reports that
German submarines wore lying In wait oft tho south of Irclnnd. Then sho
proceeded up the Irish Sea and around tho north of Ireland Instead of follow
ing tho usual courso past Queonstown.
BRITISH CASUALTIES TOTAL 549,407
LONDON, Jnn. 2S. British casualties In all theatres of war up to January
0 wero today officially placed at 049,407 officers and men. Of this total 24,122
were officers.
Theso losses nro divided as follows: Killed, 12S.13S; wounded, 353,283;
missing, rS,(Hli.
Tho division by field of operations Is ns follows:
France Killed, S7.2G8; wounded, 259,207; missing, 44,035.
Dai dandles Killed, 28,200; wounded, 78.095; missing, 11,254.
Elsewhere Killed, 12,070; wounded, 15,981; missing, 2757.
15 CHESTNUT HILL ACADEMY PUPILS HAVE MEASLES
Fifteen day pupils of tho lower classes in the Chestnut Hill Academy, East
Willow Orovo aveiuip, St. Martin's, have been stricken with measles, and ur
at their homes tinder caro of physicians,
Or. A. A. Cairns, chief medical Inspector of the Uonrdof Health.-announced
today that thero Is no epidemic of the diseaso and no cause for alarm, as propel
safeguards have been taken to prevent the disease from spreading. Five
cases wero reported to tho Board of Health on Monday, six yesterday and
four today.
TURKISH DREADNOUGHT BADLY DAMAGED IN BATTLE
PSTROCJHAD, Jan. 28. Tho Turkish dreadnought Sultan Sellm, formerly
tho German Goeben, wns badly damaged In tho recent engagement with a Rus
sian battleship nnd torpedoboats off tho liosphorus, according to reports to tho
Ministry of tho Navy today. Tho Sultan Sellm reached Constantinople on Jan
uary 8 with part of her buporstructure missing, Thlrtythreo of her crow were
killed and SO wounded by tho bursting of bcvoral shells on her decks.
SICILIAN SULPHUR MINES MAY BE FORCED TO CLOSE
ROME, Jan. 28. Because of a scarcity of coal and tho nrohjbltive price
charged, Sicilian sulphur mine owners threaten to oloso down their works,
it was stated today. Should the plants shut down a serious -situation wouW
develop.
SWISS APOLOGIZE FOR INSULT TO GERMAN FLAG
BERLIN, Jan. 28. Tho Swiss Government today formally apologized tcj
Germany for the action, of Swiss students and other persons. In tearing down
tho German flag from the consulate at Lausanne. The German Foreign OfflCtt
has demanded a further investigation of the act and has denurtdeddjf tho
flag be hoisted again and protected by tho Swiss authorities. Wl
BANK CLOSES DOOR FOR SECOND TIME IN YEAR
BIRMINGHAM, Ala., Jan, 28. For the secqnd time within a year the,
Jefferson County Savings Bank failed to open Its doors today. The baok was
reopened about six months ago under ncw organisation. Now It la capitalized
at $600,000. It Is rumored that the reoaon for the closing of tha bank i tij.it
the deposits have reached a low level and, in accordance wttfa the State fcaaki
lng laws, the directors decided to clos te.
.
f
