Subscribers of The Daily Gate
City are served the full Leased
Wire Service of the United
Press Associations.
VOL. 122. NO. 24
4
Repairs
*r.v
wi
vf
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
SAN FRANCISCO. Calif., Jan. 28.—
Floods and storms for the second
time in two weeks isolated southern
California from the rest of the world
today. All communication south was
lost beyond Fresno.
Wireless messages reported two
feet of water, in San Diego's streets.
Flood waters were said to have made
of Venice. Calif., a replica of its
Italian namesake.
The loss of life reported in last
week's flood has not yet been dupli
cated, but most of the repairs to rail
ways and lines of communication
hare been swept away. At last re
ports frantic efforts were being made
to keep the last rail line to Los An
fat&pt. .««•* si
SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 28.—Eight
persons are missing and are believed
to have been drowned when the small
steam schooner Aberdeen, in the city
of Oakland's service, was driven
ashore off the Golden Gate in a gale
today. No trace has been found of
tho seven sailors and Robert Moore,
Oakland garbage inspector, who was
aboard also.
With central California emerging
Life savers found the Aberdeen's
wrecked life boats on the beach. Ap
parently the crew had tried to reach
shore but the small boats were
swamped by giant seas and dashed to
CHICAGO
The police said the five men held
would be identlned as the hank rob
bers later in the day. They are
nembers of a gang which recently
came here from New "York, according
to Chief Detective Hunt.
T'i rrVAf
-*w
JjHfcU
Great seas are breakltilf dtte'r' the
Water fronts at San Pedro and Long
Beach. Shipping along thg entire
Pacific coast was said to be in the
gravest danger from gales. Torren
tial rains and winds of. ninety-five
miles an hour were reported from the
south. The- Midway Oil fields, which
suffered nearly a million dollars dam
age during last weeks* storms were
again hit by a tornado yesterday.
Worst Winter Known.
HELENA, Mont., Jan. 28.—Seven
persons are known to have perished
in Montana in the recent cold Bpell,
the worst ever experienced in the
state, according to reports received
only today.
Temperatures ranging down to 63
degrees below were reported.
Ten towns in northern Sheridan
county telegraphed the state railway
commission for relief. Some towns
are threatened with a coal famine.
Storm Was Terrific.
V,V
Made After Damage of a Few Days
Ago, Swept Away by Floods and
Storms of This Week.
DIEGO STREETS UNDER WATER
£jputhern Part of the State is Isolated and Ship
ping Along Entire Pacific Coast is
in Grave Danger.
1
pieces. Life savers are combing the
beach for trace of the men.
The wind reached a velocity of fifty
two miles an hour in San Francisco.
The local damage was comparatively
slight. Snow accompanied the wind
storm here.
The storm's full force was felt at
Hanford, Tulare, Visalia and Dinuba.
Point Reyes reported a velocity of
ninety-five miles an hour.
Coalinga, a rich oil district, re
ported 160 derricks leveled. The
property loss there was estimated at
1760,000.
Railroads are badly crippled, their
wires 'being prostrated and sections of
track washed out or under water. The
Tuolumne, San Joaquin and JCern riv
als jthESjtten to flood rlchjvalleys.
^The
only means of communicating with
Lob Angeles today. It was swamped
with business.
Prostrated by Storm*
LOS ANGELES, Calif., Jan. 28. (Via
wireless to San Francisco.)—Cities
and towns marooned, hundreds of
families homeless,
rooted by & gale and property damage
estimated at over $1,000,000 already,
southern California was virtually pros
trated today by the second flood in
two weeks.
orange "trees" up-'
Los Angeles, San Diego and El Sl
nor were marooned, cut off from the
world and in touch with the outside
only by wireless. The EH Sinor river
normally eighteen miles wide, was a
broad expanse of fifty miles of murky
flood waters today. Residents of New
Hope and Talbert fled when rivers in
their vicinities went over their banks.
The northwestern part of Long
(Beach Is inundated. Hundreds of per
sons are marooned at Muerita Springs.
The streets of Pomona were under
mined tv floods.
Gondoliers might have plied their
trade in the streets of Venice, Calif.,
today, only In the absence of Italian
craft, plain wooden row boats and im
provised rafts were used.
The citizens of Clarmont were
making a hard fight to save their
homes from being swept away.
from the havoc wrought by last without electric light or power, the
night's tornado, meagre reports indi
cated the wind damage may equal
the losses from 'floods in southern
California, still cut off from the
world.
One fatality from the tornado Is
lsnown to have occurred in the lower
San Joaquin valley. Fred Hasse, a rich
land owner, was crushed to death
when the wind wrecked his home.
Redlands and San Bernardino were
flood waters having put the plant out
of commission.
San Diego reported two feet of wat
er In many streets.
In the Bakerstleld oil region a tor
nado did ?500.000 damage to property.
iSome houses in Venice were unroofed
by the wind.
In Los Angeles, the largest single
piece of property damage was the
breaking of the million dollar sewer
in the Inglewood region, flooding a
rich residence district.
Railroads and lnterurbans have sus
pended traffic completely.
BANK BANDITS CAUGHT
AND MONEY RECOVERED
Gang Rounded up in Rooming
House, Threw Box of Cash
From Window.
The raid was made on a tip from a
woman. Several of the men maae at
tempts to escape, but a cordon of po
lice with drawn guns, blocked them
at every turn.
The money thrown from the window
wan In a box, said to contain from $3.
000 to $10,000. Police would not give
a definite amount early in the day.
runited Press Leased WSre Service] The exact sum secured by the ban-
Jan. 28.—Seven thousand! dits in the tank robbery was given
eight hundred dollars, said to be a I out today as $15,616. All of dt was in
Part of the $1»,61» stole'h by bandits currency.
in a daring robbery of the YTashington The five men arrested in the raid
Park National bank yesterday, was re- gave their names as Harry Brandt,
covered today by police in a raid on Harry Fein,
A1
a west side rooming house In which and Charlie Burns. The women gave
Ave men and three women were ar
rested. The money, all in currency,
was tossed from a window of the
dooming house, in a hot, and was
Picked up by a newsboy.
Brody. Pal Hofmian
evidently fictitious names.
Two of the alleged bandits. Aleck
Brody and Harry Brandt, who were
handcuffed together, made a desper
ate attempt to escape as tney were be
ing taken from police headquarters to
the state's attorney's office. They
dived at an officer's feet, butted him
in the stomach and started to run, but
were overpowered and dragged up the
steps of the criminal court buildin*.
[By Henry Wood, United Pre«s Staff
Correspondent.]
ROME, Jan. 28.—Albania, with the
exception of the port of Valona and
the immediate hinterland. Is being
^ftf^^-^erscuated by the allies,
Italian forces hold strongly fortified
positions at Valona. Heavy Austrian
and Bulgarian detachments are closing
In upon the seaport from the north
and east. They are meeting with lit
tle resistance, official dispatches re
ceived here today Indicated an attack
on Valona and one of the most Import
ant battles of the Balkans struggle
may begin within a fortnight.
The Austrian fleet in all probability
will attempt to participate In the en
gagement by shelling Valona from
the Adriatic. In this event an en
counter with the allies' squadrons Is
certain to bring perhaps the greatest
naval fight of the war.
Conquest of Montenegro and the
capture of the Albanian towns of
Scutari and 3an Giovanni Dl Medua by
the Austrians, made further resistance
by scattered oerbian forces In north
ern Albania useless. All Serbian
troops and all Montenegrins and Al
banians who would |iot surrender to
the Austrian invaders, are being trans
ported to the Greek island of Corfu
as rapidly as allied transports can
reach them, or being moved southward
to join the Italians at Valona.
With'ln ten days, Austro-Germsrn
Bulgar occupation of the entire Balkan
peninsula to the Greek frontier, will
be complete. The allies, however, are
determined to hold Valona as they now
hold Salonika on the eastern side of
the peninsula. Both are strategic po
sitions of the greatest value. They will
Medua may'be made rf any hour.
The Austrian* are now presaing stead
ily down the Adriatic, planning to
unite with the Bulgarians moving
westward through the El&assan dis
trict, for a joint drive southward up
on Valona.
__ No fear is felt here for the safety
the
Italian expeditionary force at
Valona. The Italians hold a mope fa
vorable position at Valona than do
the Anglo-French at Salonika and It Is
strongly fortified. If the Austrian
navy sorties out of Cettaro harbor, it
will encounter Immensely superior al
lied squadrons In the Adriatic.
formed that the teutonic attack on Sa
lonika will be postponed until the Aus
tro-Bulgar drive at Valona, In an at
tempt to complete the conquest of
Albania. The Austrlans hope to drive
the Italians into the sea and remove
the menace of a hostile force on their
bitions toward southern Albania.!
Whether an Invasion of this region by
stantlne to the side of the allies or
will turn him toward the central em-
(Contlnued on page 2.)
The Sultan Selim reiched Constan
tinople on January 8 with part of her
super structure missing. Thirty-three
of her crew were killed and eighty
wounded by the bursting of several
shells on her decks.
point of collapse by the relentless at-j
tack of Attorney General Rice, Mrs.
KEOKUK, IOWA FRIDAY, JAN. 28, 1916
IMMED JUSTICE
Well Known 1£oston Attorney
Has Been Appointed
by^ftff&ident gg:-.
IS TO SUCCEED LAMAR
before
Mras
1
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
PETROGRAD, Jan. 28.—The Tur
kish dreadnought Sultan Sellm, for.
merly German Goeben, was badly
damaged in the recent engagement
with a Russian battleship and torpedo
boats off the Bosphorus, according to
reports to the ministry of the navy
today.
mind
t.
"The People's Lawyer" Has Been
nment
Trials.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
WASHINGTON, J:in. 28.—Louis D.
Brandeis of Boston was nan |1 by
.President Wilson today as associate
Justice of the united States supreme
court to. succeedLjCBtice Lamar, de
ceased. Official. Announcement was
made at the white house today.
The nomination*' was sent by the
president to the senate shortlv after
1 o'clock and created a sensation in
that chamber where almost every
democratic member had committed
himself'in fafor of one candidate or
another for the .place. Southern sena
tors who believed the place would go
to some southern jurist. Justice
Lamar having come from the south,
were especially startled.
be retained at"all coat as military and cent years on behalf. of the people in
naval bases from which future cam
palgns for conquest for lost countries
will be directed.
The Italians already have evacuated
DurazzOi or are about to do so. An
nouncement' of Durazzo's capture lay
•Apiana^Ho o^cupjed Sangtavstml
Brandeis, since his activities in re-
numerous cases involving big corpor
ations, has been known as "the peo
ple's lawyer."
Brandeis was born in Louisville.
Ky., Nov. 13, 1856, and graduated
from Harvard. While still a young
man, he ajriassed jM comfortable for
tune. through his law practice, some
of which Was in the interest of large
corporations. Several years ago when
he became satisfied that his income
was sufficient to satisfy the needs of
his family, he incorporated the law
firm in Boston and retired from
the activities of its affairs. At the
same time he arranged to divide the
earnings he derived from the law cor
poration equally with his wife who
was interested in charity work. Freed
from the connection of his own law
office, Brandeis plunged into various
activities as lawyer on the "people's
side." He won great prominence in
the role of chief prosecutor of Richard
Official circles here have been In-i Ballinger, former secretary of the in-
terior under Taft, in the famous Bal
linger-Pinchot controversy. Brandeis
at that time represented Collier
Weekly. Brandeis was chief prose
cutor in the government's actions
against the New Haven railway which
led up to the recent trial. He was
right flank when they begin the march special counsel for the government in
toward Salonika. the railway rate increase hearings
Greece has long had territorial am-1
the interstate commerce com-
m*ss*on
cauon
opposing increase. It
tinae he made the state-
Austrian troops will throw Kino Con-!ment -that he could show the railways [United Press Leased Wire Service.]
Anr 1* A /liSIt 1 /I an^f A 111. aw 11 A A
on the constitutionaliVy of women
ten hour laws in Oregon and Illinois
and a nine hour law in Ohio. He
acted as chairman of the board of
I arbitration in the New York garment
workers' strike in 1910.
f1: j,W
*vV'
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
LONDON, Jan, 28.—British casual
ties to January 0, 1916, total 539,467,
Premier Asquith stated In a written
reply to queries published today.
These losses are divided as follows:
Killed, 128,138.
Wounded, 353,283.
Missing, 58,048.
The division by field of operations
Is as follows:
France—Killed, 87,268 wounded,
259,207 missing, 44,035.
Dardanelles—Killed, 28,2Q0 wound
ed, 78,095 missing, 11,254.
Elsewhere—Killed, 12,670 wound
ed, 15,981 missing, 2,757.
LABOR'S ATTITUDE.
BRISTOL, England, Jin. 28.—
Strongly worded resolutions advocat
ing drastic reductions In armaments
and other measures designed to pre-
ing^sesslon^oday^f^deieoates%epre-
senting more than 2,000,000 English
laboring men,
The resolutions were offered Just
before adjournment and passed with
hurrahs from all sides of the hall.
They urged that the final peace agree
ment at the conclusion of this present
war Include these features:
First—Agreement by all European
powers upon drastic reduction of ar
maments as a measure in the inter
ests of peace.
Second—An International agree
ment that no territory shall be ac
quired by any power without the con
sent of its inhabitants.
Third—Control by parliament of
the foreign affairs of the'nation.
Fourth—The establishment of an
International consulate.
The resolutions vigorously con
demned all secret alliances, declaring
that arrangements entered into by
nations without the knowledge of the
people, were largely responsible for
war.
Another resolution adopted by
Though the conference adopted by
overwhelming vote a resolution op
posing conscription in any form on
principle, the advocates of the gov
ernment's policy won a distinct vic
tory in the three day session of the
labor representatives.
The delegates not only refused to
favor energetlo opposition to enforce
ment of conscription, but they passed
by a large vote a resolution pledging
support of the government. A reso-
(Continued on page 2.)
BERLIN, (via wireless to Sayville)
Jan. 28.—The Swiss government to-
how he could save millions of dollars
in their operation.
Brandeis also appeared as counsel day formally apologized to Germany cfeo~ Crickett, driving the car, was
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
LONDON, Jan. 28.—Emperor Franz I BAD TRAIN WRECK.
Josef of Austria has suffered a sa-1 PETROGRAD, Jan. 28.—One hun
vere chill and is growing weaker and dred soldiers and train employes
more depressed, according to a Copen-1 were killed by the wrecking of a Ger
hagen dispatch this afternoon. Copen-! man ammunition train, enroute from
hagen reported receipt of Vienna dis- Lido to Smorgen, according to ad
patches declaring that the Arch Duke vices received here today. The train
Carl was in constant attendance with was wrecked by a washout and large
the emperor at his bedside. quantities of shells exploded.
Loved Him With All Her Soul
Even Though He Beat Her
[United Press Leased WHre Service] ment," she sobbed on the witness there was no relationship between
PROVIDENCE, R. I., Jan. 28.—Fal
tering and worried almost to the 11 was neiyiess on tne ma tne gin was ner wusin.
stand, under cross examination. them and denied ever having said that
vim lU/vhn «r«ie nolniAoa mm +1* I r*i /"ui
hef
... mothers death was vague in her Mohr. Mrs. Mohr testified, "and I
and she asked time and again never told the servants at the
Elizabeth F. Mohr today still pro-! to be allowed to explain, instead of! port estate that I had seen tho doctor thri'r
fessed between recitals of his brutal- giving direct replies.- for the last time as Mary was going »„«. ?,?^ also heard from
ity, her love for Dr. Mohr, whose mur-
der she Is charged with instigating. by a servant in the Mohr household, work." Iin*
"He beat me and threatened to were the high spots of the morning Rice asked if Mrs. Monr did not 1m- imaginable daiicrer Instead of those
shoot me, but he was my husband, the session. I plicate the McConz.ile girl's assault which are in tlie of pronaDiiitj.
father of my children, and I loved him Rice referred to the assault case in charge to aid her In her divorce suit. I "Having heard
with all my soul I still love hira! which Mary McConzille, a ^servant in I Mrs. Mohr denied any connection with biased sources, the public will
though he is dead, and through it all the Mohr home, was involved. Mrs.' the charge. Rice then asked -if the fiate a statement from the president
I think he loved me. He went out Mohr admitted that her own mother's girl was not her cousin. setting forth the reasons which lea
with other women only^ for amuse- name was Mary McConsille, but said "That is ridiculous," she replied. «him to urge so radical a departure
BT-W
-J. Vs
for the people in defending attacks for the action of Swiss students and probably fatally injured when they Trinity river reached a height of 30.8
other persons in tearing down the
The German foreign office has de-
manded a further investigation of the
act and has demanded that the flag
I be hoisted again and protected by
the Swiss authorities.
The rioting students also damaged
the German shield at the consulate, it
was stated.
As a further expression of regret,
the Swiss federal council has decided
'to send the chief of Its political de
partment to the German ambassador
at Berne to offer an apology.
were
(S^U *r
STORM DAMAGE
struck by a Santa
an
were
y0nd
°1!vu 7 llhr ZatifloH "f.?" munitions to whom preparedness is a
'thl charg^^f ^saua. ^ade to use°tVo bullets if'mie1^d*dn"fdo 'thc army and navy experts who. magnify-
Asks President Wilson to State
Just Why He Boosts
the Project.
I United Press Leased Wire Service.]
MLAMA, Fla., Jan. 28.—As a bon
voyage message to President Wilson
upon his departure for an "appeal to
the country" on preparedness, former
Secretary of State Bryan today issued
a statement challenging the president
to outline his reasons for urging the
national defense measures. Bryan
gave no hint as to his future person
al plans in that, connection.
I "I cordially commend the president's
1
plan to lay before the voters his rea
sons,'' said Brynn. "The people are
entitled to all the lisht possible in
order that they may intelligently ad-
bUc servants.
tllelr
THE WEATHER
Snow or sleet. Warmer. Local
temp—7 p. m. 19 7 a. m. 12.,
Senators Become Eloquent in Rebukes Against
Actions of Nations Across the
Seas.'
VIOLATION OF OPEN DOORJOUCr
Sensation Was Sprung When British Orders to
Blockade Vessels, Were Kead by
Senator.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.J
WASHINGTON, Jan. 28.—That the
senate cannot look upon the de
mands of Japan on China "without
profound concern,*' and that It will re
gard further pressure as a "restrictive
act on American rights," was de
clared In a resolution introduced this
afternoon by Senator Sherman.
Japan's demands were declared in
violation of the open door policy to
which this government has committed
Itself.
The resolution directed President
Wilson to instruct Secretary Lansing
to give notice through proper dipld
matic channels to Japan and other
party nations of the belief of the sen
ate.
unanimous vote, resolution bristles T?lth
possible the cost of the war be in« demands for tffflT"i5rotec£ion of'Amerl-Ameri­of
by heavier taxation on Mi'g'i Incomes
and by state acquisition of railways,
mine3, shipping interests and the
business of Insurance and banking.
demands for tKeTproteclion
can commercial rights.
Some of the statements in the reso
lution are that Japan's demands may
result in the exercise of soverignity
over parts of the Chinese empire,
that there are indications that Japan
will assume sole rights of trade and
commerce to the detriment of Amer
ican Interests that it is part of the
traditional duty of the American gov
ernment to "protect the trade and
commercial rights of its citizens" and
that the open door is so vital an ele
ment in American diplomacy that the
senate cannot loolc with indifference
on this apparent violation. The reso
lution was referred without debate.
Neutrals vs. Allies.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 38.—Neutrals
[UDENVEReSSCoieoSed
«ln,nX JrrU^ni* state banking department late
%z&sz
deaths in two automobile accidents i,
twin sisters, 19 years old, and. Edna, ment of business January
16, all daughters of E. R. Dingham
of Doming, N. M., were killed and
Fo passenger feet
German flag from tne consulate at train. Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. IJuell, in the last three days, and is nve feet
Lausanne.
aged couple of Sheridan, Wyo., over
hey'have
heard from thg manufacturers
of
T1,m.
1
do. hj
caIIincr'
*W
versus the allies with the United
States and Scandinavian countries co
operating against the entente powers,
was the situation today over British
seizure and interference with mails.
While England is securing advice
of her allies regarding this govern
ment's protest, Norway, Denmark and
Sweden are expected to supplement
the American protest with separate
representations to England. Officials
here nave scant hope that the mall
interferences will cease, pending the
negotiations.
Secretary Lansing said this govern
ment will await a reasonable time for
the promised note from England on
the mall question before proceeding
further.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 28.—Depart
ing from the manuscript of a pre
pared speech, Senator Walsh today
sprung a sensation in the senate by
reading from what he said were Brit
ish orders to blockade vessels to ob
tain trade secrets from illegally open
ed American mall.
From this mall, seized wantonly, on
high seas, he said, Great Britain had
obtained secrets which would be used
by Its merchants in undermining
American commerce. He demanded
a cessation of all trade with the allies
unless the blockade was amended to
accord with International law.
The confidential papers, said Walsh,
were orders issued to a British block
ader, but which by mistake were
packed in an American mail pouch
and brought to this country.
Five Accidental Deaths. Bank Statement Called For.
Jaii™ 28*—Fiv51 ^PRWGFIELD?^!!! ^Jan°
yr
"i
K*
EIGHT PAGES $
-v
•*."
n#T $
S3The
yester-tne
ea,,a(« a
nil for
25.
River Thirty Feet High.
DALLAS, Texas, Jan. 2S.—The
today, an increase of eleven feet
its
killed when their car got be- have warned families living along tne
control while speeding and river to move their stock from the
yond
turned a somersault. lowlands.
BRYAN IS OPPOSED TO
PREPAREDNESS PROGRAM
banks. Local authorities
from the historic policy of his party
and the traditions of tne nation.
"If he can convince the people, he
will be entitled to their support it
his reasons fail to convince, he will
have no excuse for going further with
tils program."
Further outlining his reasons for
opposing preparedness, Bryan said:
"The sum which the president asks
for the army and navy, would absorb
almost tho entire income of all Unit
ed States farmers. An adoption of
the president's program would work a
complete revolution in our national
ideals, in our governmental methods
and in character of influence we are
to exert upon the world. There is in
terest in knowing whether proposed
adoption of old world theories and
practices will promise deeper friend
ships, brighter days and better things
or arouse international hatreds which
will bring bloodshed and invite bar
barism.
"The question is not whether we
could or would defend ourselves if at
tacked. We not only could, but would,
but our preparedness is Increasing rel
atively more rapidly as the belligerent
nations exhaust themselves.
"A large part of the democratic
p"l
pIan t0 meet eveT
full£
tnese
aPPre"
!tl,e republican party are satisfied with
our nation as it is and prefer to con
tinue the present scale of prepared
ness, with any risks which it may in
volve, rather than risk a change to
tho European plan with its oppressive
tactics and its menace to peace and
International friendship."
ff
H"
