f
'irenw^
That Country Home
Go to It via Ihe T-D Want Ad
Page, bor Sale or to Let
66th YEAR
vol.on-: ?!()
% I m iti :k ~7
RICHMOND, VA., FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 1910.?TWELVE PAGES.
" r*7.7! ?C LO U D Y
To Buy or Sell
Remember the Easiest Way, T-D
Want Ads?Randolph One
PRICE, 2 CENTS
iUi
FROM SURFACE OF
WEST El STREETS
Council Committee Takes
Definite Stand on Grade
Crossing Question.
ASKS COUNCIL TO SERVE
ULTIMATUM ON RAILROAD
Resolution Gives Six Months to
Start Work and Two Years
Thereafter to Complete It.
w 11 pi.kaos roii uki.ay
Says Negotiations Havi* Ueeii !to
iir\vc?l f?>r Krectlon of l"p
tow ii Stat ion.
After long a rgum- fit by ?'it; Al
tornej Pollard and Cliairinan Ordway
I' u J1 ??? r. of th? < ?fjiincM Street Commit t?*e,
and by President William II White. of
tli?> Richmond Kr-'iN rlcksburit and
Potoma? Itailroa'l i'ain|>ativ, ari?l hi?5
a* '"'ant. William !? Imke, 'In* r<>in
mi"?-e la-i night rfi'dmni'-fiil'-'l for
adoption by ?l??? Cltv Council an nrili
nan-e i r>cilru-.i: th" Richmond. l-~r< <1 -
?t i< ; t burg ai.il Potomn'' I>;ti 11 oad ("?jti
pany to rctiontirurl .tn<l ic;irr;itii?c i'.1'1
tracks from Hyrd Street Station to
l\U>;>. ?he work to la-itm within ?-tx
months after th'1 adoption of the ordi
nal.>?? and to be f'tnpbtcd within two
yf?r? 11n-r<?i?ft <? r.
The original resolution. offered 1>
chairman Puller, required that t ho
Woi It of recot: s* i tn t ion -lintiM t ?? ! i: tl n
within font not'l- after ii?c .rdm.-?me
w\-\h adopted. ;> r.? 1 that th< work should
i" '-ompleti d withm fttihtt ?? n nini'thr
The :])ft:i|.-'| t i-sol,. ? ion ;i - adopted Ii
th*- < ? mm 111 < e, w as off# .-???! by i
nian Kngllsh
rmI'li \rni xiii.r. to mi11m? i:;
TOO I l?H II.\ 'I'O II \m;i.
I'- i?. ?? ' rij t on and r-.tri H'ltt
lien t of tile t r :> ; ... so a>- >o avoid
made ??? *?.?..ir a.*., v 1] . < - it;?te cith#.-.
that the <-oin ;;i (?> ? otisttui! bridge; or
t .luted IIIroui;h t). streets .,:!?? t. i
It. Hiilent Wl. '.f i>i.? 1 Kppa H Jtiton. Jr.
? otitis#'I f..t the laili'.cl lOiiipiiny.
.??la t i-d that an overi,. ;i.l . j.. > .in- above
all the *tree!> fn.t, llyrd Sm . I Station
to Klha wouli! p: afti> all> Itnpos
Mldo, and ?j>;o:?-.! '"in Roll
l n g as rendering a like ? idnion. Tliu
onl\ alt'-rnat i\ ?? left tin* tailroud I'otn
pany would be to tuntol, which the
compati'. 's representative Mild would
c?l.<f 5 *J, IMh#, ?'<?<?.
1 'it y Alton.e-. i'oliatd and Chairman
Puller referred to alleged dilatory
ta>li"s pursued tlit- ra lroad com
pany. ami urged that the comnilttoe
tak* immediate action to compel the
company to i;.: t!.. city of grade iros.i
ings. Mr Puller, leaving the chair,
chare#?>l H at tl e Richmond Fred
ericksburg a :i.I Pot<<ttiac was ou n> d by
the r.n. )\anta Kailroad I'ompany,
and ti.at the Ii,i'hmr-nd. I'l ederu-ksloit u'
and I'iitumac ??oul?l not uttroc to any
terms .d |.> the city utdess the
larjjer company consented
Mr Pullet's* iille^ation was sttent:
ously denied by President White ;?tnl
Mr. I.Mike, ?>f the l(l< hmond, i-'red
?? tickslnit and Potomac, who said that
priv.it. stockholders', of whom the
State of Virginia Is the largest, own
the majority of stock.
Willi I'. ItK MO VPS MI.I.KSTIO.V OF
lONTHOI, in I'K.WSMA.tMA
I'llv Attorney Pollard, following the
cue of Mr. Puller, also alleged that
the hands and voice of the Richmond,
Fredericksburg and Potomac were not
free to art upon the request of the
city to remove grade crossing*, and Mr.
Pollard's remarks- were likewise digni
fiedly resented by President White, who
said that the Kirhmond. Fredericks
burg and Potomac was uncontrolled,
and that it was free to art as it wished
iti the matter. President White stated
that the attitude of the railroad com
pany was one of compromise, and that
It was even now negotiating with the
Atlantic Coast lyine to construct a
union station, and that it was willing
to go into conference with the com
mittee to hruitf about an understanding
and to < o-operate with the city in ef
fecting a solution of the problem.
Mr. Muiiton, arising later, said that
he had not intended further to argue
the matter, but merely to present the
case of his company, but, after a mo
tion made by Joseph K. Powers that
the problem be postponed for a con
ference between the city and the; rail
road company, he felt constrained to
recall the fact, that all the railroads
In the country were injured by the
Kuropean war, and that his company
had been unable, on account of the
stress of war, to fulllll its own ideas
and m co-operate with the Atlantic
Coast 1-ine in erecting a joint station.
TWO It OA IIS It I'.A OV TO
I MON STATION
Sit.''*-, however, lhe tide of prosperity
has 'timed, negotiations between the
two railroad companies for the con
struction of a union depot have pro
gressed lo that point that a conclusion
ultimately satisfactory to both the
people and the companies had been j
reached, and, to support his statement, j
he a.'ked that the City Attorney mako
himself acquainted with these uegotia- j
lions. Mr. llunton said that he made
this statement to show that hir com
pany was willing to co-operate with |
the city in the solving of the problem i
concerned with grade crossings.
It was twice charged- by Mr. Puller i
and by City Attorney Pollard?that the ]
Richmond, Fredericksburg and Potomac .
was controlled by other railroad com
panies. including the Pennsylvania, the
Chesapeake and Ohio, the Southern, the
Italtlmore and Ohio, and tlus Seaboard.
" ^Continued on Third Page.)
THE "CITY OF RICHMOND,"
A now nnd palatial steamer, aitonllng an
enjoyable overnight irlp tr> 1IAT.TIMOHB.
Kveellent meal*. Stateroom* and private
. hatha. yolUC RIVEK 1,1 NIC. Phone Mad.
an.
For Co-Ordinate College
i>k. \. w.
l're>idon? of fnivei-dty of Virginia.
IN REGION OF NEUVILLE
(iormans Sturm French Trenches,
While French Occupy Mine
< 'raters of Fiiemv.
si: It lOl'S
i.i ?ssi:s
si i i i:i;i:i)
British Iti'port Progressive Occupa
tion 1?\ Their Men of Mine Craters
ami Listening I'osts on Western
front?Turks Fvacuate Trenches.
< onslderabK
fun |!.u- all
front. Merlin
I'.ghllnc l "i3 !?? ? ? bali
ng th? entire French
isserts that liflwcon 500
:?11<I <".00 of French trenches wore
stoimvd b> t>.?- i.Jorrnanf" ii the vicinity
of Neuville. anil that French counter
attack* were without result.
1 ii this region. tl?*- French assert, the
Hermans w*re driven from m i n ??
i ruiiTs they had incupied, and were
repulsed in tr; ifuz to recapture them;
whtb* the Hritish report the progressive
occupation by their men of mine
cra^rs and Cetman listeixmr posts in
, th?* N'euville r? irion.
I'av.s announces also tlett Herman
j tr?? n? h- iii i'.elginm ami to 11 i?? north
j of the Alsne have be< n badly ham
nered l>\ the I'rench guns. ami that
In- Hermans suffered serious losses in
I a light for a mine < rat* r in the
I ArKonne forest.
W'hib considerable lighting has been
i going on along the ltussian front at
various places, from (he region of Higa
; ilmvn into K.im Halicia, in important
j successes have been aitameil b\ either
I siib-. The same is true as to the Aus
[tro-Italian front, the Caucasus region
I ami t he Italkans.
The British report, that the Turks
I have evaeuateil their trenches on the
' laiul side of the Kut-el-Amara ?lefenses
to about a mile from the intrcnch
ments: occupied by the besieced Hrit
ish force. The report says there is no
change in the situation <>f the British
force marching up the Tigris Hlvcr to
the relief of Kut-el-Amara.
iiano-to-hano i-'ir;iiTi.\(i
OX WKSTKIt N KIIOXT
1/ONIMiN. January 2".?Wrecking the
trenches with mines, the Germans have
occupied between 500 and C<*0 yards of
the I'rench front on the Viiuy-Xouville
highroad. The Ofrman official state
ment to-night recounts this further
success in the Artois drive of the
Kaiser's army. Some prisoners, a ma
chine Kun and three mine throwers
were captured.
Wand-to-hand fighting, with both
sides suffering severe losses, is raging
night and day in this region, and Berlin
claims to have successfully penetrated
ihe Kronch advanced positions in a
number of places. In one sector three
successive lines of trenches have been
captured. They are being held (irmly
by the Teutons, it is said, although
eight heavy counterattacks have al
ready been launched against them.
llltlTISll FOIICKS AT AI)i:\
IN l)AV<;iCMOI .N POSITION
DICBMX. .January 27 (by wireless to
Sayville).?The Cologne Volks Zeiti :ig
publishes a dispatch from Cairo stating
that the British in Southern Arabia are
in a dangerous position as a result of
tierce attacks by'Arabs and Turks. It
is stated the ltriti:di casualties up to
December 30 amounted to 15,>00 killed
and 20,000 wounded.
According to the Volks Xcitung's
Cairo correspondent, the situation of
the British forces nt Aden in Decem
ber ?vns reported to he dangerous.
Aden was surrounded from the land
side by a numerous, stiong, well-armed
\rab force and a force of Turkish regu
lars. The British garrison, consisting
of 20.000 men. was said io be defending;
itself stubbornly, and only the (Ira from
iho warships had saved them from
captu re.
TIU'TII or IIIIPOHTS
DUX It
I.ONDO.V, January 27.? -The ofiicinl
press bureau this evening gave out a
statement denying th.? truth of tho re
ports contained in the Cologne Volks
Zeltung from Cairo concerning tho
situation nt Aden.
BiUer Opposition Develops to
Plan for Co-Ordinate Institu
tion at University.
DR. ALDERMAN FAVORS BILL
Says /Establishment Elsewhere
Would Ee Severe Blow
to Its Interests.
In establishing a co-ordinate eoj]ejr??
for women under the auspices *.f the
I'liiv.-ridtv of Virginia. 11>?? us. f-j 1 r.? - .
of lh?' State's premier institution of
h-aming 5n laying IIit? broad founda
tion f*>r intelligent participation in the
ial life of the State woul"l. ii< ?:?>
'?pillion of I >r. Ivlwln A Adcrmari.
president of the university. who ad
r! r,.v s",| (j,.. joint Committees on Kdu
'':11 ion of the (it-ncrnl Assembl- <??..
'erday at a public hearing mi the ro
ot '1 imicollege 1*111. Increase the us..
fulness of tli<- university a hundred
fold.
V'lvoi iiics of lli'-- measure. intended
Secure to tll*? WOllieil Of til"
?*?iual opportunity with the men of ie
?? iv11(c training In a hiirh*-r lustitution
??f learning supported 1?%? Sta'** funds,
;i ? t- IxsioKinu the I,, gislature for the
' I'*1 time in the interest of \ it>
es1 a' >||.'-li<-(| a woman's ??oll<-m?, <.o
? T'iir atr> with th<* 1'niversity f.f Vn -
ctnia Tfii- I'cmni111o?; \ -1?-r? In ? irave
six hours to a f ? j IJ discussion *.f t ii <?
question. adjourning last night at I z
o'clock. No action was taken.
i IIIT'I IJIt (IIMMISITION
MA l\ ICS ITS AI'I'CAHAM i:
l:Mt?r opposition to the measure. as
t.ot COIldtlClVC to thft best Intel *v-t? of
the St.it" and it;- public s-hool system
Mini as out of koopinu with thi* best
poli* \ in the education of women, has
ilftvtlopod, just a? in former ?. ears. antl
:? formidable array of talent appeared
auainst tli" passage or th*- in?-a.sure
last ninht I' OS** wft 11 fare, Second
Auditor. was in charge of the pro
?i*?n*.|its. wiiiif 11 *;rir\ Taylor mat.whaled
'<)? for*.*-.- of tise opposition
lir Abler mail, who led off for tl?*?
' hi the * Hht l>ftfor*' Till* < o !l I 111 i 11 *??-,
was ft: 11 p 11 a t.. ? in his belief that toe
time lias come for securinc to the
women "t th*. Slate an opportunity to
share with thft men in t h*- 'durational
a *1 va nta^ es *. fi.-r . 1 by t li *? Stat*- utiiver
' Klty.
"Co-operation." said l>r. Alderman.
. "is the tnasterwotd of our time. We
can no lotiper pursue* thft policy of re
stricted effott. A new human type?
tin- trained, efficient -.vomnu, actively
engai:*>d. side l*y -i*le with the man. in
solving th*? .social an*l economic prob
* leins that come into thft life of a broad
democracy?is with us in this twen
t iftth century
STATU Ml ST I'Ur.lWltK
ITS WOMKN I.I-;A DICKS
I h'-re ai. going to be women lead
i * i s. \\'e must provid*- means whereby
they ma \ s?:i ui> training ???I'.ial t*> that
of the m* :-, who will mould the history
"t t!;.- nation. I lie time has come
when a State university cannot main
tain a sint-'b- attitude with respect to
I the tit tint of the citizens of the i.'om
; inonwealth for the manifold duties of
; lif.-.
j "The i-har^e has been broutrht that
the I niver.-iiv *.f Virginia is not demo
cratic. that it away from the people,
that its teachiiii-'s are not such as will
hromh-n the lit", of a demo. i ac\. That
chatKe is ill-foundol. You have only
to refer to the history *.f this I'oinmon
wealth, read the u.iinos of men who
j have made it what it is. and you will
see that It is the very essence, the very
foundation of democracy.
"If this bill i.s enacted into law. and
a eollfttr*. for women, co-ordinate with
1 the University of Virginia, i.s ostab
! lisheil, where the women of thft State
j may enjoy equal educational opportuni
1 ties with the men, It will be a hundred
fold more democratic. Where it
| touches now the life of only half the
; citizens of the Commonwealth, it will
then reach out and briiif; within its
scope the State w undivhlei] citizenry.
Jf this college is established elsewhere
than the university, it will be a severe
blow to its interests
not K\Ti:iu.\fi wi;ik;k
l-IIH < IU:i)lCATKIN
"The principal objection advanced by
the students of the university, as I
see it. is that co-ordination will be the
entering wedue for coeducation. I
have no such tear. In my opinion. It
will lie the urea test protection against
coeducation."
K. ?'. Stem nos, Superintendent of
Public Instruction, urged the passage
<t" the bill in the interests of the pub
lic school system of Virginia. The ef
ficiency of the whole system, he said,
centered around the liiith schools of
the State, where the boys and girls re
ceive training at the most critical
period of their life Nothing can be
more important, said Mr. stearnes.
than that these schools should secure
the very best teachers possible, and
there is only one source of supply ? (he
standard college. The high s.-houl
tcachets of thirty States in the. Tnion.
In; said, ate trained at state, univer
si ties.
NT! l>r,VI HOIM IS
OI'I'OMKII TO .MI-MS! Ill;
Students of the university are over
whelmingly opposed to the bill, ami
assert that, should it pass, nml uic co
ordinate coIIckc in established. It will
mean a material falling off in u,0 in
stitution's enrollment. \\\ A. Stuart,
a member of the student body, appeared
before the committee, bringing a pe
tition of protest signed by r.27 of the
students who see. in the proposed co
ordinate college the Introduction of
something, they say. that violates the
very spirit of the university. The I'ni
versiiy of Virginia, they say., is dis
tinctly masculine, ami any change in
policy would be very detrimental to
its Inter, sfs. A cablegram stated that
(Continued on Seconrf I'ageT)
ATl.ANTA-HIKM I>*(? IIAM-NEW OKI.KA \N
ASIIKVILI.K-MliMPlllS .
T hren trains dully. 10:0 A. yj. ,i f,0 r M
vuil 11:1C P. M.. via SOUTH 1CHN* ItAIIAVAV*
Pullman Slucplil(; C'aro, Coiichea. Phono'
272.
k
'GAMING FOR MONEY
House Passes Stephenson Anti
gambling Bill by Vote
of 64 to 3.
BARS EVEN ONE-CENT POKER
Richmond Charter Amendments
Are Offered?Prohibition Bill
Is Expected To-Day.
By ;i vote of fit to and without a
word of debate. tho House of I>?? 1 ?? tr:iti-s
\ e;;torday passed 11??? Stephen*'", anti
traitibling bill.
The hi|| provides that ii shall lie
unlawful for any person to net. wager
or pla> at nnv K.nnf for mono;- Any
orip violating the provisions of the act,
; ? Is provided, shall 1)0 gljiltv of ;|
misdemeanor. ami upon conviction shall
hr- fined not exceeding ? 11>0 or im
prisoned in jail not loner than sixty
?lays, or both. Circuit Courts am] jus
tices of the peace are gi von a concur
rent Jurisdiction in the trial of all
? as-i-s under t his act
At both the sessions of l!ii; ;iti.|
1M2 the ant igamlding bill was much
in tlie limelight. Both tlinos it passed
tho Mouso hy substantial majorities.
otil\ to die on the Senate calendar la
view of its prompt passage in 'ho
llo'i^o this year, ami the ascendancy
of the reform majority, it is generally
assumed that the hill will this time
? ?scape it.- usual fate in the upper
house and become law.
A IMM.II-> IINI.V Til
IM. A Vl.Vf; Kolt llllNKV
In its earlier forms, tho Idll pro
hibited also playinc for any stake of
value. It promptlx encountered objec
tion from tneiiiIters who feared that the
act would interfere with more or lesw
hannlo:???? uames indulged in by society,
chief anions; them auction bridge
pla \ ed for prizes uiven by the hostess,
and similar near-gambling activities.
I he bill us it stands aflVcts only
{gambling for money. The present law
auainst gambling takes no cognizance
of the offense if less than J'.'ft is lost
b atij individual in the course of
twentv-four hours Under this pro
% ision. extreme difficulty has been en
ountort-d by tho police in securing
? ??invicl ion?. 1 he Stephenson bill,
which noes now to the Senate for enn
cut fence, fixes no loss limit, and 1-cent
poker will under this law be held to
j be gambling as truly as roulette on a
; Monte I'arlo scale.
? HicilMoxn riiAirn.it him,
INTHODl CEI) AVI) IIlOKIlKII 131)
Karly in the clay City Attorney I'ol
; lard brought to the House tile omnibus
Richmond charter-change hill, which
j w as forthwith introduced hy the Itlch
mond delegation. The bill provides,
| among other things, for the abolition
of the Health and Police Hoards, and
for 'he transfer of the manaeemont of
i these departments to the Administra
tive Board and Mayor, respectively. A
separate bill, introduced earlier in the
week, is designed to give the voters of
Richmond, through a charter commis
sion. wider pow ers in changing the city
: government.
Roth houses concurred in the adop
tion of a joint resolution offered by
Delegate Willis, of Roanoke, providing
for the appointment of a special com
mission of three members -two from
; the House and one from the Senate
to make a study of rural credits, and
submit a report and recommendations
to the GeneraI Assembly of 191S. The
resolution is in line with the recom
mendation on this point made by Gov
ernor Stuart in his second message to
the present Genera! Assembly.
IMt Oil JIIITIO \ llll.I.
in i:.\im:< thii to-i>a\
House and Senate prohibition leaders,
who have held several conferences this
] week with authorities of the Antl
j Saloon League on the forthcoming pro
ihihiiion legislation, expressed the be
lief yesterday that the finished pro
. hihition bill will In- ready for presenta
jtion to-day It is understood that
provision for the entire machinery of
prohibition will be made in a single
i omnibus measure.
The hill, it is stated, will he intro
j duced first in the Senate. It is as
, sumed that the act will ignore the
i presumption of protection for wineries
' and breweries implied by the enabling
| act that was approved in September, j
1914. and that the overwhelming ma- I
i jjority by w hich the \oters of Virginia j
| approved State-wide prohibition will
be relied upon as full justification for
1 denying any degiee of protection to
these industries in the forthcoming bill.
Typists were at work yesterday pui
j ting the prohibition l>ill into final
I shape. The measure will be intro- J
j duced as the oil.rial !>il! of tint recog- I
j sti/.ed "dry" forces, and will have the j
(effect of leducmu to the rank of in- j
i surgency iht prohibition bill intro
i duced last week i?y Senator:! Strode and '
j Addison, at least in so far as the pro
1 visions of this measure conflict Willi
j or fall short <?' the provisions laid j
down by the new lull.
V. II.I. I'Ol.l.dW IMtO\ ISIOVS III''
\\ l-:ST \ nil.IMA STAT I I'M |
In a general way. the new bill will j
I follow the prohibition law of West I
I Virginia, taking from it in large part
I the prohibition commission feature?|
j for Virginia purposes to be called the !
' Commissioner of Moral Welfare. There'
, will be definite restrictions on the j
I amount of li<|iior an individual in this!
; State will be permitted to have In his I
| possession, as well as on the amount !
1 that lie will In- permitted to receive iri <
a given time from the express com- <
; panics.
| Delegate Willis's "blue sky" bill, on |
j the calendar on its third reading, en- j
j countered sharp last-minute opposition. I
! in deference to which the patron con- '
! seated to its being passed by until to- j
day for further consideration. The bill |
undertakes to protect the investing j
public against being victimized by fly- j
by-night companies organized to sell j
worthless "securities." l?y requiring j
such companies to furnish tho State
'.Continued on Fifth Tagc.)
Mass-Meeting at Academy of
Music to Aid War Sufferers
Proves Big Success.
MANY LARGE GIFTS ARE MADE
Checks Pour In So Rapidly It
Will Take Day to Tabu
late Them.
A pproxi ma to lv $10,000 wa y ra ised list
night in the Academy of Music at .1
! mass-meeting held for the purpose of
ralsintr funds with which to succor ths?
j destitute and suffering Jews in 111Ku
< n.pean war /.otic. Contributions 10 'tie
fund ranged from S! 10 SfiOf). and so
numerous were tiie checks handed in
' to the ushers who took up the collec
tion that the treasurer pro tempore,
W I! Sch warzschild. was un.tl.le to
count and tabulate them last night. hut
will do so to-day. when more eontriliu
tions are expectcd to swell the fund,
and when the exact amount raised by
the citizens <>f Kichmond will lie an
nounced.
The evening was featured hv short
addresses delivered by Mayor Ainslie.
. Governor Stuart. Rt. Kev. 1"). .1. ?n
f'il, Professor Isaac Hourwich, of New
York, and l?r. Kdward X. t'aiisch Kach
of the speakers paid trlhute to the
Jewish race, and each asked that Hid
l.e piven them in their hour of need.
! stating that the question was more
?than that of race. hut one iti
which the universal brotherhood of man
ought to he considered.
MM Oil AIVSI.IK |'|{.\ IMOS
.ll'.AVS KOH TlU'.llt U (IKK
'... Morris acted as temporary
chairman, introducing the permanent
chairman. Leon "Wallet stein.
Mayor Ainslie was the first speaker,
and he referred to the fact that the
' occasion was a unique one: that It was
i the tirst time the Jewish people had
ever asked for aid outside of their own
race. lie spoke of how generous 'he
Jews ate in contributing to the nid
of others, and said that he had rea
son t<> know of their liberality to the
many causes that have arisen in Rich
i tuond, and in which members of this
! race have always been in the front
| ranks sis liberal Rivers. He spoke of
jlhe freedom which the Jews eujov in
tiiis country, and stated that he hoped
the time would come when they might
att'*r.<l to their own business, un.lis
; turbed, in the Old World.
1 t'iovemor Stuart, upon being inpo
j duced. spoke of the Jews as citizens.
.He showed how law-abiding they were
: when he stated that in his career as
chief executive he has had to deal
| with only or.e case of a Jew either in
the almshouse. Jail or penitentiary.
(As statesmen, lie said, their judgment
1 was good, and as business men they
| were without tiors. He spoke of their
readiness to contribute to ail worthy
! causes.
MOVi:>li:\T TKMIS TO snow
11 hot 1110 it hood ok man
I He expressed the hope that out of
:the present war a new day would dawn
! for the Jews of the Old World, and
j that out of the conflict they might come
j free and lie allowed to work out their
j destinies, as they are permitted to do
? under the Stars and Stripes.
! governor Stuart stated that he was
glad that Jew and Gentile were gn'h
j ered together to aid in a common cause;
I he was glad that the President . the
! 1'nited States had set aside a day for
. the collecting of funds for . .e de?ui
j tute Jews, and that It but tended to
show the universal brotherhood of
' man.
1
| llishop O'Connell saw in the present
j war another great upheaval, similar to ;
| the Krent-h Revolution, the Civil War
?and to many other great moments in
I the history of the race, and hoped that
| out of the struggle might come an u'p
? lift to humanity. He spoke of how
| geologists show that the brcaking-up 1
| i>f the earth's surface has always re
) suited in a better surface, and said that
I no one knew but that these great up
( risings on (lie part of men were but a
j similar action, which would leave a
j better humanity, a higher civilization.
! He said that the aspirations of man
j are always higher than his life, that
j the aspiration was high, and that the
j life itself was narrow.
"f cannot help but believe." he said, j
: "but that all great upheavals such
| as this are but a part toward that
- eternity to which all nations are mov- 1
I ing." He declared the present war to j
\ lie a clash of ideals, anil said that he !
; could not bring himself to believe that I
1 the soldiers in Hie trenches had aught
! against each other, but that if al-j
! lowed to do so. would rush into each '
! ot Iter's a t ins.
"It is a war of policies." be said,
i "All the world is come together in
j one common bond of sympathy." He
j mentioned the fact that he had re
ceived letters from people in all the
I nations at war, who are heartbroken:
land in need. ,
1 m:i.it:vi:s w \it wu.i. i;m>
M A \ \ Ol.I) ?U KSTIOVS I
"When this war is over, three <iues- j
I lions will have been answered," lie
| continued. "There will 'e no more
I Irish question, there will lie no more
Polish question, and there will be
more Jewish question."
Professor Isaac llourwieh. of N'ew
York, was the next speaker, an.1 he in
| terested the audience 1>> telling them 1
of some of the indignities the Jews
have suffered, more especially in Rus
sia. where count less thousands of them
have been driven from their homes, he
said. He claimed that what the Turks
have done for the Armenians, the Rus
1 sians have done for the Jews. He told
of the driving out of the Jews from
the Polish provinces, while many times
(Continued ou Second Page.)
KKDt'CKI) MA It 1)1 Oil AS FA It KM
via SOU I Hi-K.N KAIMVAV from Feb. to
.March t. New Orleiin.i, K'ti.76 round trip
Mobile and Pepsin ola, 113.3r>. Stopover*
hong limit. Kscellent Service, nrflco 907
K. Main St. Phone, Mailttoa 272,
URGENT PLEA
FOR DEFENSE
SLEMP FOR INDEPENDENT
DEMOCRAT FOR SENATE
Republican Leader Hectares His
I'arty Is Itendy to Support Some
Strong Business Man.
IN OPPOSITION* TO S W.ANSON
Wants Candidate Who Is Not Promi
nently Connected With Kit her of
Party Organizations, on Plat form
l-'avoring Stute's Development.
(Special to The Times-Dispatch 1
WASH IXUTON, January ? Repre
sf-ritative Raseorn Slemp. Republican
leader of Virginiti, who has been men
ttoneri as a possible O. P. candidate
for the Senate against Senator Swan'
son. in a statement to The Times-Dis
patch correspondent to-night, declared
that, the Republican party stands ready
to support an independent Democrat
for tlie Senate, a man who is not promi
nently connected with either the Re
publican or Democratic party organiza
tions. hut who is a strong business man.
Mr. Slemp left the impression that he
: himself will not be a candidate for the
Senato
In this mKarri it is known that Mr,
Slemp has marie the suggestion of an
independent man for the Senate, tn
prominent "nntlorganization" lenders,
lie has stated that the Republicans
stand ready to give this candidate
r.0,000 votes, and if there are 100 in
dependent Democrats in each county to
be added to this vote. Senator Swamon
can be defeated.
SMOMP MARKS yri'rmiHXT
( l)M' 10R MM. MIX ATOItSlllt'
Mr. Sleinp's statement is as follows:
"I appreciate very much the sugges
tion that has come to me from a good
many sources to make the race for tlie
United States senatorship this fall.
"This suggestion. I realize, was some
what incidentally made, anil really Is
part of a general protest against the
Democratic leadership in the State of
Virginia.
"I have no doubt ihat a good, strong
man representing the business Inter
ests of the State of Virginia and run
ning on a platform favorable to its
development would get a majority of
the votes of the State. Whether they
would be counted for such a candidate,
even if cast. 1 somewhat doubt. I sus
pect that the reluctance that seems to
I attend entrance into the Democratic
primary contest is due to fear that
honest treatment will not he accorricri
at the polls.
"Under these circumstances, 1 feel
that the kind of ninr. to nominate is
one not connected ? ith either party
organization in titi Stale, but a good,
strong business man, u i'. - will get the
Republican vote of the State and the
independent Democratic vole. There
are a number of such men in the State,
and the people ought to demand their
making a contest.
"I would favor an independent Demo
crat, indorsed t ? > the Republicans.
The Republican vote in the State will
be between frO.OOO and tiu.000. To carry
the State, such a candidate would only
have to got ahout l'J.fiOO former Demo
cratic votes, which would be about 100
votes to each county and city In the
State. With any reasonable organiza
tion and some newspaper influence,
this should be comparatively simple."
U. S. TO DEFINE POSITION
WHI Hold 't hat tlonnliiiK of (?iiiin i> r
>1 erehinit men llc|irhes Them of
Right* n* I na-iurd 1,inert.
\\ \SlI IN(iT? >.\. January L'T.? All the
belligerents will shortly receive a com
munication from ttii-; government de
claring tin' position of tlie United
States on the rights of armed mer
chantmen to claim immunity from sub
marine attack. II. is understood ibis
government's attitude is ttint the
mounting of guns l?y merchantmen in
itself deprives tho vessels of the rights
enjoyed by unarmed liners.
Secretary of State I,a using tu-ilaj
annouflced that advices covering this
subject had beeu sent to "the bellig
erent powers."
At the Austrian embassy to-night it
was declared thai the State Depart
ment has tendered no information re
garding its altitude, and that any ad
vices of this nature will he presented
to tho Austrian government through
Ambassador i'eulli ld, in Vienna.
Tho action of the State Department,
it is uinUrstood. was precipitated by
the arrival in New York of tho Italian
liner Verona with guns mounted f<>r
defense. Immediately following the I
arrival of the Verona, word reached
Washington that another Italian liner,
tho America, also armed, had arrived.
?jj/ifcL ? ?>_, ?< - - --1e. V'-I V. ..1. . - I'
IN FIGHTING MBOO,
PRESIDENT BEGINS
APPEAL TO NATION
Warns That Plans Must Be
Made and Carried Out
Without Delay.
SITUATION EACH DAY NOT
AS BRIGHT AS DAY BEFORE
I Considers Liberty and Honor of
Country Even More
Than Peace.
.
I or. FUNDS HIS M KMC AN POMCV
AH During Day's Visit to Now York
Kxecutlvo Is (ircetcil With
Groat Flitlinsiasin.
N1CW YOIIK, .1 aimarv 27.--President
Wilson to-night opened his personnl
appeal to the country for a national
defense.
11?? pave warning that plans for the
read just men! of the army must be
formulated and carried nut without de
lay, anil solemnly declared he coulri not
predict that the outlook for tin- I'nitcd
States would be as bright to-morrow
as to-day. Speaking at banquets of
the Railway Business Association and
j tlie Motion-Picture Hoard of Trade, he
sounded the keynote of addresses that
he will deliver during the next ten
, da> s in the Middle West.
Mr. Wilson was in a lighting mood
throughout his address. In a speech
delivered early in the day. Ite declared
he always accepted an invitation to
tlitht. To-night, he told the railroad
men he was an advocate of peace, and
had struggled keep the. United
? States at peace, but he considered tho
liberty and honor of tho nation even
more than peace.
"Woe to any man who plays marplot
or who seeks to make party politics or
personal ambition take precedence over
? candor, honor and unselfish, unpartisan
service!" said the President, iti speak
I ing of his defense plan before tho
railroad men. lie declared that tho
country expects action; this is a year
of accounting, and the accounting must
he definite on the part of parties and
II on the part of every individual who
wishes to enjoy the public confidence.
IIOI'KS KVKin .MAX tiKT
WHAT'S COMIXi TO HIM
"For my part. I hope every man in
public life will get what's coming to
him," said Mr. Wilson, atnid laughter
and applause.
The President at both banquets and
all during his (lay's visit to New York
was greeted with enthusiasm. On his
ride between the hotels where the
banquets were held to-niirht. he was
escorted by a band and the Ninth Com
mand of Coast Artillery of the New
York National Ouard. Thousands of
persons packed the streets and cheered
him as he went by.
!>uring his speech before nearly 1,500
business men at the railway bnnquot,
, where he cast aside almost entirely tho
text of the address he had previously
prepared for delivery there, lie was fre
quently interrupted by applause.
The President admitted that In a
? message to the last Congress he had
! said the need for preparedness was
; not pressing. He declared that ho
learned something in the meantime.
, He cited his recent, support of a tariff
commission as another instance of a
change on his part, but declared that
previously there was no need for such
a commission. The business men en
thusiastically cheered his support of
the commission.
Mr. Wilson spoke of men of high
character who were clouding the pre
paredness issue. lie declared they
i were provincial, and that the United
| States could no longer cut herself off
I from the rest of the world.
, XlKOItOt SI.V UKKIOMlS
Ills MIOMCAX POI.ICY
The President vigorously defended
j his Mexican policy, lie asserted that
' to invade Mexico would mean tho los
? ing of the confidence of the rest o?
the Western Hemisphere, lie cited the
freeing of Cuba as an instance of good
| done Iiy the United States.
"if we are drawn into the maelstrom
which now surges in lSurope," the
i President declared, "we shall not be
pci nutted to do the high things wo
| w ouhl prefer. '
The President defended the conti
nental army plan drawn up by Secre
tary Harrison, and sa id that he did not
cure about the details of any plan as
long as 500.000 trained men were pro
vided as reserves under the Federal
government. He advocated strength
ening the National (inaril, but said tho
Constitution itself put the guard under
the State, lie added that the United
States will not turn In the direction of
militarism.
Turning in tho direction of why th?i
I'nitcd States should prepare. Mi Wil
son said we must, protect our rights as
it nation and the rights of our < Inzer.*
in America and outride of it as tho
consensus of civilized peoples had d e -
lined them: must insure the unem
j barrnssed realization of our political
development within our own borders,
and must protect the ucacf and polltl
i en I autonomy of the Americas. Ho
added that a national defense means
jthe protection of the cour.tr> from in
vasion, and also tho prevention Of flank
assault upon tho things which we be
lieve to underlie our life.
Industrial preparedness, with tha
military training of student* In indu?*
v
