Official
Newspaper of
Olympia
VOL. LV. NO. 45.
MUCH WORK DONE BY
YANTIS DURING 1915
ANNUAL REPORT OF PROSECUT
INO ATTORNEY SHOWS MANY
CASES HANDLED.
Summarizing in one review the
large amount of work transacted by
him during the year 1915, the an
nual report of Prosecuting Attorney
Geo. F. Yantis was filed with Gover
nor Lister this week. The report is
devoted entirely to the routine of the
office and contains no recommenda
tions. It indicates, however, that a
vast amount of work was handled by
the prosecuting attorney during the
first year of his term.
Among the interesting features of
the statistics incorporated in the re
port is to be noted the fact that dur
ing the year the prosecutor handled
30 cases under the mothers' pension
law, put one husband under bond to
support his family under the "lazy
husband" act, and handled 10 juven
ile court cases, besides Investigating
some 30 others which were not taken
into court and in which the work
done by the prosecutor was in the
nature of the duties of a probation
officer.
lO Juvenile Court Cases.
Of the 10 juvenile court cases, one
delinquent was sent to the Chehalis
training school, four to the Grand
Mound school for girls, four to other
Institutions, and one was dismissed
upon the marriage of the parties in
volved. Two other cases involving
moral delinquency, handled in the
superior court, were dismissed upon
the marriage of the persons involved.
The report shows that during the
year nine convicted criminals were
■ent to Walla Walla and four to the
Monroe reformatory; that two cases
in the superior court ended in jail
sentences; that the "red light" abate
ment law was invoked in one in
stance; that the prosecutor appeared
for the county in 17 default divorce
cases, conducted 10 Insanity hearings
and handled 10 tax foreclosures.
Thirteen superior court'cases were
dismissed, 10 of these being the Chi
nese cases; juries in two cases dis
agreed, and in three other instances
the verdicts were for acquittal, while
there were nine cases pending at the
end of the year.
40 Justice Court Cases.
Xn the Justice court Prosecuting
Attorney Yantis handled 46 cases,
obtaining 32 convictions. There were
BIX acquittals, three cases upon which
there was no return, one bound over
to the superior court and two dis
missed.
The prosecutor also defended one
action against a county school dis
trict and three tax cases against the
county, and conducted one road con
demnation. Two men were declared
habitual drunkards by the superior
court.
In addition to these numerous
cases, Yantis investigated many other
complaints which were not taken
Into court, advised the county offi
cials on various points, and handled
other affairs of the office, such as
preparing and examining official
bonds, and the like.
Owes (210,000 In Taxes.
The Weyerhaueser Timber com
pany owes Thurston county some
$215,000 in taxes, much of which is
delinquent, and teh payment of the
Interest alone due on this sum would
enable the county to pay off all its
bonded and warrant indebtedness,
according to a statement given out
this week by County Treasurer Fred
W. Stocking. The county has Bold
Borne $60,000 worth of tax certifi
cates on the company's property. The
company's taxes In Thurston county
this year are $69,773, while it is said
they amount to moe than $1,000,000
on ita property in Washington, Ore
gon and California.
Attorneys Troy & Sturdevant of
this city, acting on behalf of United
States District Judge Jeremiah Ne
terer of Seattle and Superior Judge
W. H. Pemberton of Belllngham,
filed suit in the local superior court
this week against State Land Com
missioner Clark V. Savidge. The
plaintiffs own a tract of land sur
rounding Lake Terrell in Whatcom
county, and because the lake is not
navigable, claim title to the bottom
of the lake. Refusal of Savidge to
grant this claim resulted in the suit.
Tiaslungfon Stanftori)
ESTABLISHED NOV. 17, 1860.
I FRUIT MEN COME HERE.
Western Washington Horticulturists
j Horticulturists of Western Wash
ington will meet in Olympia Febru
ary 24 and 25, when such subjects
as crops, trees, marketing, blight and
pollenation will be discussed, accord-
I ing to an announcement by Robert
Miller of Startup, president of the
j Horticulturists' Association, who was
lin Olympia this week making ar
! rangements for the meeting.
The program for the two days' ses
, sion has not been completed, but
( Governor Lister will deliver an ad
j dress, an expert market man will dis
i cuss "Marketing," and the association
hopes to arrange for a talk one even
ing by Dr. E. O. Holland, the new
president of the Washington State
College.
Mrs. Eagle Freshwater and young
son Frank have both been quite ill
this week with lagrippe.
MERCHANTS OF COUNTY TO
ODSERIIE "PAY UP" WEEK
February 21-20 to Re Celebrated ax
National BiU-Paylng Week in
United States.
Olympia and Thurston county are
to have a pay-up week.
At a meeting of the merchants of
Olympia, held at the Chamber of
Commerce, it was decided to enter
into a county-wide campaign through
the Chamber of Commerce in an en
deavor to bring about a general reali
zation of the necessity for each to
meet his obligations and February 21
to 26 has been fixed as the date for
the general statement annihilation.
During this week the nation in
general will observe Pay-Up Week
and the country-wide cry for the oc
casion is, "You pay your bills; I'll
pay mine."
Pay-up week has perhaps been
most generally observed in Colorado,
where it was offered as a remedy for
lack of prosperity. The affair was
the means of turning thousands of
dollars into the channels of business
and caused a general relief of busi
ness stagnation throughout the state.
As outlined at the meeting of the
Olympla merchants, the plan is broad
enough to include every line of trade
in the county and Bhould not be re
stricted by the city limits of Olympia
by any means. In fact invitations
will be issued to all the cities in the
county to participate.
A broad and thorough advertising
campaign has been outlined for the
occasion, which will be launched in
every part of the county on or about
th' 3 first of February.
Merchants in the county who are
interested should write the Chamber
of Commerce for details.
WILSON TO OIVE ADDRESS
President Will Talk to Business Men
of Country at Meeting of Na
tional Chamber.
I WASHINGTON, D. C., Jan. 28.
i President Wilson has accepted an in
vitation to address the fourth annual
meeting of the Chamber of Commerce
of the United States, which is to be
held in Washington next month.
,Thls announcement was made by
j John H. Fahey, of Boston, president
'of the national chamber, following a
| conference with the president at the
White House. Mr. Fahey predicted
the most successful gathering In the
history of the organization.
Pointing out the fact that the
Chamber of Commerce of the United
States has grown in less than four
years until it now has 700 affiliated
organizations, in every state in the
I Union, not to mention Alaska, the
Philippines, Porto Rico and Hawaii,
Mr. Fahey Baid the forthcoming
meeting would be a common forum
for business men to discuss the very
biggest pending questions affecting
commerce. The sessions will begin
on Tuesday, February 8, and last
through Thursday, February 10. It
is expected that President Wilson
will speak at the banquet on Thurs
day. His exact subject has not been
announced, but it is expected it will
be along the lines of commercial pre
| paredness.
to Hold Convention.
"Hew to the Line, Let the Chips Fall Where they May."
OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 1916.
DEFENSE UNABLE TO SHAKE STONE'S CONFESSION
FORMER PARTNER OF GILLIES STICKS TO HIS STORY OF
HOW INDUSTRIAL INSURANCE FUND WAS LOOTED,
PLACING ALL BLAME ON FORMER CLAIM AGENT—TES
TIMONY THE SENSATION OF THE TRIAL.
Though subjected to a grilling cross-examination for a day and
a half, after he had spent a half day telling his story, Frank Stone,
who turned state's evidence and testified Wednesday and Thursday
in the trial of J. F. Gillies as to his connection with the industrial
insurance frauds, revealing the system used, stuck to his original
story without wavering, placed the blame entirely on Gillies, and
declared he had not been promised immunity or a light sentence.
Courtroom observers said he made an excellent witness, much better
than expected, and that the defense was unable to break down his
story in any particular. Incidentally, these claimed'
to have noticed a change in Gillies' previously jaunty manner dur
ing the two days Stone was on the stand, a change that indicated to
them he was "losing his nerve."
The presentation of Stone's testimony, sensatianal in its revela
tions of the scheme used to defraud the industrial insurance funds,
was the master-stroke of the prosecution of Gillies, the former claim
agent, whose trial for alleged forgery is now in its Second week. The
prosecution completed its side of the case early Friday morning,
t-nd attorneys for the defense say they will offer practically as
many witnesses as has the state, so that the case probably will not
go to the jury until the latter part of next week. Gillies will take
the witness stand and testify in his own defense.
Stone's testimony, anticipated for two days, was the sensation
of the trial and the courtroom was crowded when he took the stand
Wednesday to tell his story of his connection with the industrial
insurance frauds which netted the perpetrators close to $20,000 in
the course of two years. The story as he told it on the stand, while
more detailed and specific, followed the general story given out last
Saturday in connection with the announcement that Stone had made
a complete confession to Governor Lister and Attorney General
Tanner Friday night, after having been taken to the governor's
office at his own request by Chief of Police Caton.
Forged at Gillies Direction, Says Stone.
He testified, in response to questions asked by Assitant Attorney
General John M. Wilson, that he forged all the accident claims at
the direction of Gillies and that he also, at Gillies' direction, forged
the employers' reports, physicians' reports, the vouchers and the
indorsements on the warrants.
The witness, once an intimate friend and partner of Gillies in
the fishing business, related the history of his dealings with Gillies,
how the scheme of looting th« industfett insurance fund was started
and carried into a remunerative business; how Gillies furnished most
of the money to purchase an automobile for the joint use of the part
nership ; how Gillies kept books for the fishing business, and through;
out the whole narrative, how Gillies was the master mind that direct
ed almost every move he made to loot the workmen's fund.
Stone's testimony showed that the meeting with Gillies took
place about two years ago, and that the forging of bogus claims
began late in 19|14. The majority of the fake claims were put
through during the summer of 1915, he said.
After subjecting the witness to a line of questions bearing gen
erally on the forgery of the claims and papers used in connection
with them, the assistant attorney general took up and identified
through the witness the claims and papers that are now part of the
court records. In each instance Stone recognized the writing as his
own, with the exception that in several instances he said Gillies him
self had signed one of the witnesses' names, and testified that the
papers had been fixed up at one of four places, either at his home or
the Caledonia, Kneeland or Mason hotels.
Stone when brought into court gave no signs of noticing Gillies,
but proceeded immediately to the witness stand, where he began his
story. He was calm and self-restrained. Gillies .looked intently at
Stone as the latter took the stand, and during the course of his testi
mony Gillies took notes industriously. Whenever Stone would bring
out a fact Gillies thought was a vital one he would bend over his
notes and hurriedly jot down the statement.
Tells Story of Partnership.
Stone testified that he had lived in Olyrapia for 26 years and
followed principally the business of bartender and fisherman, having
been a fisherman "on and off" all his life. For a year and nine
months, he testified, he and Gillies were partners in a fish market
here. Gillies was also interested with him in the fishing boat Lucky.
He became acquainted with Gillies at "Gene" Kearns' saloon two
years ago last New Year's Eve at a turkey raffle. Stone got into
some trouble over a turkey he had won and Gillies came to his rescue,
the witness testified, and from that time on a friendship sprang up,
which has lasted until the present time, or until Stone decided to
confess.
"He first told me he would bring claimant* to me," said Stone.
"I was tb stand good for the men, feed them and take care of them
until they could get their warrants. I remember one case of a man
from Shelton. After he got the warrant I cashed it, took out my
share for what I had spent on the man, Gillies took part and the man
received the rest."
"After that what happened?" Wilson queried.
"Then Jack went to me and showed me how we could get some
small change." The witness was not allowed to finish, for Attorney
Vance interposed objection.
"Did Gillies at any time bring:
blank papers to you and tell you they '
were blanks used by the industrial
commission and then give you in
structions how to use them?" was
asked.
"Tes, sir," Stone replied.
"State what was done when Gillies
brought these papers to you."
"He brought them to me, told me
what the papers were, how to fill
them out, what names to use, and
then told me how he would put them
through the industrial Insurance of
fice."
How Papers Were Made Out.
"Explain how the papers were
filled out."
"He, Gillies, would take one of the
papers and I the other and he would
tell me word for word what to fill
out, the name of the claimant, the
nature of the injury, the employer's
name and address, the names of the
witnesses and the names of the doc
tors," Stone testified. "When it came
to the nature of the injury, however,
he would suggest a plan and I would
suggest another. Then we would
take our pick, choosing the one
Continued on Page Eight.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
PHONE LINE TO EAST
Transcontinental Service Opened Be
tween Sound Cities and New York.
The first telephone call between
Tacoma and New York, realizing the
dream of Northwestern business men
ever since the telephone was invent
ed, was made Wednesday, when direct
transcontinental service was estab
lished with Eastern cities. Mayor A.
V. Fawcett of Tacoma made the first
call, extending Tacoma's greetings to
Mayor John Purroy Mitchel of New
York. Similar ceremonies were held
in Portland and Seattle.
A great celebration to commemo
rate the installation of the transcon
tinental phone service was held in
Tacoma Wednesday, Thursday and
Friday. The service was established
by the same group of experts who in
stalled the first transcontinental tel
ephone line between San Francisco
and New York last summer. All the
cities of the Pai'.'fi; Northwest are
connected with the East by the new
service.
WEST TRIED ON CHARGES
PREFERRED DY VAN HOUTEN
Former County Agent Accused Oppo
nent of Making Slanderous
Statements.
Trial of Arthur, G. West, former
master of the Brighton Park Orange,
who was recently oppointed super
visor of Road District No. 6, on
charges preferred by former County
Farm Agent O. C. Van Houten grow
ing out of alleged slanderous and
malicious statements made by West
during the recent campaign involving
that office, was held before a court
of inquiry of the Thurston County
Pomona Grange in this city Tuesday
and Wednesday of this week. The
decision is being kept secret, but will
be reported at the next meeting of
the Pomona, the third Tuesday in
February. West was one of the lead
ers in the flght which resulted in the
county dispensing with a farm ex
pert.
The statements attributed to West
and upon which Van Houten pre
ferred charges through the Grange
on the ground that they violated the
oath taken by a member of that
order, are claimed to have reflected
upon Van Houten's character, both as
to his morality and business integ
rity. The charges were preferred by
Van Houten at the last meeting of
the Pomona Grange after West had
refused, it is reported, to make a
public apology, though he is said to
have been willing to apologise pro
viding it was not made known out-,
side the Pomona.
L. L. Snow, the new Pomona mas
ter, presided at the trial, heard by
Ave Pomona members, before whom
both Van Houten and West presented
witnesses. If West is found guilty
he may either be reprimanded, sus
pended from the Orange temporarily,
or expelled.
TWO BIG TIMBER DEALS
Several L«rge Gray's Harbor Tracts
Acquired by Logging Firms.
What is undoubtedly the largest
single timber deal in a number of
years in Gray's Harbor county was
closed last week, says the Montesano
Vidette, according to authentic re
ports, in which the holdings of Eu
gene France and the Lowe estate In
the district north of Gray's Harbor
passed to the ownership of the Pol
son, Coate6-Fordney and Simpson
logging companies.
The timber sold is said to cruise
about 800,000,000 feet and covers 15
sections of land, lying between the
headwaters of the upper Wishkah
and upper Wynooche rivers. It may
also be stated authentically that the
price was close to $2,000,000.
Another big deal is also reported,
this one involving Ave sections of
timber in the North River district.
The Anderson-Middleton interests
have bought the timber from the
Weyerhaeuser Timber company for
a reported consideration of $500,000.
Mrs. F. T. Houghton, who under
went a serious operation at St.
Peter's hospital last week, was able
to be moved to her home tke fore
part of this week.
WHOLE NUMBER 2889
PRESIDENT FAVORS
TARIFF COMMISSION
URGES CONGRESS TO AUTHORIZE
NON-PARTISAN' BOARD DUR.
ING PRESENT SESSION.
Creation of an independent, non
partisan tariff commission, with
broad powers to investigate tariff du
ties, the relations between industries
at home and abroad and the entire
tariff and commercial machinery of
the world, was urged upon congrem
this week by President Wllßon.
The president discussed his plan
at length with Representative Kitch
in, chairman of the house ways and
means committee, and asked that the
committee consider it immediately
with the view of getting action dur
ing the present session of congress.
He also consulted Senator Simmons,
chairman of the senate finance com
mittee, and may address congress on»
the subject.
Although the president previously
has taken the position that the pow
ers of a tariff commission already are
held by existing government boraaoa; .
he told Mr. Kitchln he felt JuatUtad
in pressing for the creation oC a sep
arate commission at this time be?
cause of unusual conditions existing
In the world, and on account of the
interest the United States wtlf hare
in commercial adjustments after the •
present upheaval.
The President's Plan.
As proposed by the president, such '
a commission would have specific ■
powers to:
"Investigate the administrative ■
and fiscal effects of customs laws now
in force or which may be passed in
the future.
"Determine the relations between
rates of duties on raw materials and:
those on finished or partially finished.
products. i'
"Investigate the effects of ad va*
lorem and specific duties and of those -
which are a compound of ad valorem*
and specific.
"Examine the arrangement of*
schedules of duties and the classifi
cation of the articles on the several!
schedules.
"Investigate the provisions of law
relating to the tariff and the regula
tions of the treasury department ap
plying to invoices and other ques
tions with application to the collec
tion of customs duties, and
Determine Economic Effects.
"Determine generally the workings
of the customs and tariff laws in their
economic effect and administrative
methods."
A new use of a tariff commission'
proposed by the president would be
to discover the possibility qf estab
lishing new industries or developing
old ones, such as the production of
dyestuffs, by the use of scientific and
practicable methods. He would have
the commission work in harmony'
with existing agencies of the govern
ment having powers to investigate
foreign and domestic commerce inr
order to avoid duplication. Particu
larly he would have it assist in se
curing facts on which any "dumping'"
of cheap foreign products on the
American market and the furthering
of unfair competition might be pre
vented.
Portland Detective Gets Reward.
Governor Lißter this week directed
that the reward of SSOO offered by
him for the arrest of Frank Stone,
who this week confessed to his part
in the industrial insurance frauds, be
paid to Thomas Swennes, a detective
on the Portland police force who ar
rested Stone in that city Sunday, De
cember 26.
Local Apples Fine for Vinegar.
Thurston county apples are much
better for making vinegar than East
ern Washington apples, according to
State Food Commissioner J. J. Hig
glns, who says a Seattle firm that
made vinegar from local-grown ap
ples obtained a 56-grain product, or
10 grains higher than expected from
Eastern Washington apples.
Both Prosecuting Attorney Geo. F.
Yantis and Sheriff Fred W. McCorkle
say they have received reports of
illicit sales of liquor in violation of
the "dry" law, but that the inform
ants either refuse to give their names
to a complaint or the information is
so vague as to give the officials noth
ing to work on.
Published
Continuously
For 55 Years
