MARKETS
WEATHER
Arizona Fair
Avsrage copper price V JHL ft! J!iL
week ending Jan. 12 XfCT "V"
23.49.
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 209.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, JANUARY 28, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
PRESIDENT
PROPER TRIM
OPENS HIS
SPEECHES
TO FIGHT TYPHUS.
Wilson Begins His Personal
Appeal to the People of the
Country Regarding Admin
istration's Plans.
SPEAKS BEFORE BUSI
NESS MEN OF N. Y. CITY
LAREDO, Jan. 27. The first
movement of the Rockefeller
foundation against the typhus
situation in Mexico commenced
when Doctors Husk, Peter Ko
litsky and George Baehr left for
Anguas Calientes, to try experi
ments with one hundred tubes of
vaccine, and to prosecute fur
ther studies in identifying the
typhus germ.
The physicians carried a com
plete laboratory equipment and
many guinea pigs for scientific
experiments. The itinerary of
the physicians is undecided but
it is believed they will lose little
time in reaching Mexico City,
which is said to be the most ef
fected section of the republic.
rCTEIt, SERBIA'S SCTJiOWINtt KING, GOING TO HIS EXILE II
Executive Acknowledges He
Has Changed His Mind On
Preparedness. Says U. S.
will Not Invade Mexico.
NEW YORK. Jan. 27. The Presi
dent tonight opened his personal ap
peal to the country for national de
fense and gave warning that plans for
adjustment of the army must be form
ulated and tried out without delay. He
solemnly declared he did not predict
an outlook on the United States as
bright tomorrow as today, speaking at
a banquet of railroad business associa
tion and motion picutre board of trade
He sounded the keynote of the address
es which he will deliver in the next
ten days.
Wilson was in a fighting mood
throughout the address. Tonight he
told the railroad men he will advocate
nace and had struggled to keep the
United States at peace, but he consid
ered the liberty and honor of the na
tion more important than peace. Near
ly fifteen hundred business men were
at the banooet. .
He admitted he had said in nis mes
sage to the last Congress that the
feed for preparedness was' not press
ing. He declared be had learned am-
erently in the meantime. He discuss- J
ed the Mexican policy. He asserted
ih?t the invasion, of Mexico would
mean losing the confidence of the rest
of the western hemisphere. He argued
that now is the time for America to
keep her head and remain aloof from
the European maelstrom. He defend
ed the continental army plan. He did
not care for details, so long as a half
million trained men would provide a
reserve.
LIFE HISTORY
DC IMflMAM
IS TOLD ,
... V Ta,n. t.'..iiu.rA
. . y
5 -
t ?wt.
"n iii 1 i m ii 'I Tir .'::: - . v. & 1
3 v
4
EMBARGO MOV
WANTED Oil
MUNITION
TRAFFIC
i
!
The pathetic figure of Peter, the kiPi; of Sjilia, is si en seated on the ox drawn cart which is conveying" the sorrowful old man into exile. The
cart, which is bcinp utilized as a royal coach for his majesty, had been in use as an ammunition wagon in the Serb army. It is said that the king will
make his home in luly.
Senate Indulges in Tirade on
j the Munitions Business of
' America when Kenyon In-
troduces Million Signatures.
I '
DEBATE NON-PARTIZAN
ON ENTIRE SUBJECT
Mrs. Elizabeth Mohr, on Trial
For -Murdering Her Hus-
band in Providence, Thru
Stiff Cross Examination.
TELLS OF FIRST BREAK
WITH HER DR. HUSBAND
Arizona Man Js Released to Head
National Live Stock Association
Dwight B. Heard of Phoenix and All Other Officers of the
National Live Stock Association Are Reelected. General
Pershing Addresses the Convention ; Tells Need.
The president outlined why the
United States should prepare and, he
said, must prepare for her rights as
a nation and rights as citizensin Ame
rica and outside, as the conseusus of
civilized people defined them: must!
insure the unembarrassed realization i
of political development within her
own borders and must protect peace
and the political autonomy of the
Americas advocated strengthening of
the National Guard but he said he
Denies She Lived with Practic-
ioner for Over Year Before
Being Married, Legally, to
Him.
PROVIDENCE, Jan. 27. The first
serious break of the marital relations
of the late Or. C. Prank Mohr and his
wife, Elizabeth F. Mohr, charged with
having hired two negroes to kill, her
husband, occurred at the time she told
her husband of her- friendship for
SamT A. McDougall, a new minister
of Nova Scotia, was the statement elic
ited during a severe cross examination
Step by step the prosecuting attor
ney brought but the details of Mrs.
Mohr's life. She told what her husband
in 1912; said about McDougall, the
doctor was incensed and went to Nova
Scotia to try to have the minister un
frocked. "The doctor was tinder the influence
of drugs," she said, "and asked me if
I preferred McDougall to him. I an
swered that from the way he was act
ing I though McDougall would have
been better, as he did not touch liquor.
She denied that she lived with the
'doctor a year and a half before her
marriage. She said that when she
found the first ceremony was illegal
8b e had the second performed. She
admitted being "fooled" about the
first marriage with the doctor.
EL PASO, Jan. 2". All the officers of the American National Live
stock Association were re-elected at the concluding session of the con-'
vention here. Dwight B. Heard, of Phoenix, president, fL L. Burke, of
Omaha, were added to the list of second vice presidents.
"The men who expect to get the protection of the government
should be willing to serve the government," declared !ea. Pershing,
of Fort Bliss, following his election as an honorary member of the
association.. "The 'ar of the last year and a half has resulted in the
awakening of the nation to the necessity of pieparedness ' to protect
homes and lives. Japan landed 100,000 on the shores of Manchuria ten
years ago.' They could just as well have landed on our shores. There
is no such thin? as absmilte security."
IDENTITY SOUGHT.
CONTRADICTORY CLAIMS
BERLIN, Jan. 27. Official reports
would put the guard under the state. c"y five t0 slx 6un(lrea yrds 01 tne
He added the United States must not:t rencn "Mn were siormea y e
; r- i : i : . m v....Mt.
turn in the direction of militarism I v r u,,s '
and industrial preparedness, with the
iinlitary training students in industrial
schools proposed by the President.
He left navy plans to his later addres
ses, referring to the accounting of thi
year, he said: "For my part I hope
every man in public life gets what is
coming to him." amid laughter and
applause. The President at both ban
quet's, during the day's visit to New
York was greeted with enthusiasm.
On the ride between the hotels where
the banquets were held, he v es
corted by a band and detail of the
ninth coast artillery. New York Na
tional guard. Thousands packed the
streets and cheered as he went by.
DOCTOR ALLEGES PLOT
CHICAGO. Jan. 27. Dr. Luther E.
Widen, noted as a physchologist and
insanity expert, alleged in his appli
cation for a writ of habeas corpus that
he is being held in a phychopathic hos
pital and threatened to be sent to EI
jrin Asylum for the insane. Dr. Widen
several years &go. was commissioned
by Iowa Universitv It is said to accom
pany one of the Stefenson polar expe
ditions to study phycology of the Es
ouimaux. It is said that Dr. Widen
had himself interned in the hospital
under an assumed name to more close
ly study the patients. He alleges that
he was suddenly seized and" placed in
a padded cell. He communicated with
a friend and got a lawyer.
and French counter-attacks failed. The
French assert the Germans were driv
en back. The British report the occu
pation of German positions in the Neu
ville region. Considerable fighting is
reported on the Russian front from
Riga to East Galicia with no Important
results on either side. Austro-Italian
Caucasus and Balkan fronts are quiet.
The British labor congress, while op
nosing the military bill, defeated the
proposal of workingmen to agitate for
repeal. King George said in his pro
rogation of Parliament until February
15., "England shall not lay down her
arms until she' has vindicated her
cause, which carries the future of civilization."
LABOR
Opposition to De Facto Government
Maintained in Northern Mexico
Reports From Torreon Indicate That Column of Rebels
were Defeated on Sunday. Arrieta Brothers Are Act
ing Independently of All Others the Republic
EL PASO. Jan. 27.-Official and unofficial reports reaching the bor
der indicate that actively armed opposition to the de facto government
is being maintained in northern Mexico. Torreon, in the state of Coa
huila, reports a column of rebels was defeated Sunday at Tapona, Duran
go. Seven prisoners were executed and large supplies and munitions
were captured.
; Unconfirmed reports indicated tha Arrieta brothers were operating in
dependently. It is said they revolted because of the appointment of a
Carranza partisan as governor of Durango. Following the attack upon
the garrison of Inds, Chihuahua, thi Arrieta "brothers are said to hate
absorbed most of the force of rebels and then moved to Parral where
they looted property of the Alvarado Mining Company.
RAILWAY MAIL PAY.
IICEHES
OFFICIALS
CHICAGO, Jan. 27. A little
gray haired woman in whose
shabby clothing, the authorities
found $13,461 was held in the
pysocopathic hospital, while ef
forts to discover her identity
were made. Bonds valued at
$10,000 made out to Mrs. Nana
V. Haynes, obligations of the
221X "JancTo : Secretary of Centenial Miner,
bonds dated, issues of six years j Condemns the Officials or
ago. i the United Mine Workers.
Remarks Expunged.
INDIANAPOLIS,. Jan. 27. After a
bitter attack by E. L. Doyle, secretary
of the Colorado Miners, in which he
assailed the management of the strike
in that state, the United Mine Work
ers of America gave a sweeping vote
of confidence to John P. White, presi
dent, and Frank J. Hayes, vice presi
dent, when they approved all acts of
the international officers within the
labor struggle.
For more than two hours, Doyle at
tacked the acts done by the leaders
pnnriiifHnc tha Rtrlke He arrusprl
Two Lieutenants Who Swam them of showing less zeal In the sum
mer of 1914 that at the beginning:
and alleged some of the olticers urged
a plan of settlement injurious to the
workers' interests. ' A vote expunging
the remarks from record was carried.
Doyle's attack was one of the sen
sations of the convention. The dele-
OFFICERS MUST
FACE ARMY
T
WASHINGTON, Jan. 27. Pay
for railway mail transportation
on a basis of space instead of
gross weight was provided 323,-'
000,000, in the post office appro- :
priation bill, as approved by the
House Postal Committee. The
bill increases the remuneration
of railroads one million and a
half and adds four and a half
mi llion to the rural mail ser
vice appropriation. .
FIGHTING IN WEST
I.ONDON. Jan. 27. Considerable
ficMing is in progress on the entire
French front.
RECORD CALIFORNIA STORM
' SAN FRANCISCO. Jan. 27. One of
the most unusual storms in the history
of California has passed inland. The
wind reached a velocity of ninety-five,
miles an hour. Los Angeles and San
Diegn were cut off from the world a
while tonight, except by wireless. Com
munication at a later hour was partial
ly restored. ' Fresno, Bakersfield and
other cities were hard hit the storm
extending into Arizona and Nevada.
Rio Grande in Effort to Res
cue American Soldiers Must
Face Courtmartial.
BROWNSVILLE. Jan. 27. The ar
rest of a Mexican officer, responsible
for the seizure of two American sol- Pates appeared so eager to vote on
Hi-. .ft, h!n Hov.H 0110!" question of approving the acts of
ABOUT NAVAL PLAN
to have crossed the border was order
ed by Colonel Quintanilla, the Carran
za commander of the Matamoros gar-1
rison. Quintanilla said the officer had I
disobeyed orders calculated to pro
mote the friendship between Ameri
cans and Mexicans. He said the fact ,
that an American on Mexican soil, un-'
armed and without clothes, made it
plain he was innocent of causing any j
trouble. The officer, it is understood,
denies the Americans were decoyed to
the Mexican side, or shots were fired
at them..
None of the bodies of the four sol
diers, drowned in an attempted res
cue of Americans, were recovered late
tonight. Preparations are being com
pleted for a courtmartial of the three
United States army lieutenants who
led the fourteen privates arross the
line in an effort to rescue nrivates W.
C. Wheeler and Vizzo Pederson. who
were returned to the United States bv
Carranza officials. The officers were
the international officers that vice
president Hayes was unable to gain
the floor to reply. He gave notice he
wonld make a statement later.
President White. In a heated renlv.
declared Doyle had done irreparable
injury to the strtigcling mine work
ers of Colorado. Letters, nnroorting
to have been written by detectives of
, the National Detective Agency were
rad bv Doyle, in which it was stated
I the agencv nlanned to have an agree
ment made between the operators snd
, the miners of Colorado as was done
j in one of the West Vireinla fie'ds. He
did not brv where he srot the letters.
I Dovie asked the delefates to remenv
her the nations! officers who were in
I charge of the Colorado district hd
hocn In ron'mnd of the ' affo'rs in
Wost Virginia hal no facts. He xld
tbo fool commission. etit tn Prio
rsHn bv tl President, did not fnm.
'h. anything to help the miners
there.
MAIL PROTEST
FILED WITH
IT
! Senator Stone, of Foreign Re
I lations Committee, Declares
j This is No Time for Opin
I ions or their Expression.
j WASHINGTON. Jan. 27. An out
burst of denunciation against the ship
ment of American made war munitions
to European belligerents, stirred the
Senate, reflecting the revival of senti
ment pending in the committee for sev
era! months. A dozen senators, includ
ing Democrats as well as Republicans,
assailed the munitions traffic while
those supporting the administration's
stand that an embargo violates inter
national law, were silent. A petition
for an embargo, bearing more than a
million signatures, precipitated the de-
! bate. A test vote at one time seemed
inevitable but was averted after much
'parliamentary maneuvering by r efei
ence to the foreign relations commit-
i tee.
Senator Kenyon started the discua
i sion in presenting the petition which
(was sent to the senate by an organiza
tion of women for strict .neutrality.
IThe Iowa senator charcteri7.ed the
".Me of munitions abroad as a "cold
blooded monev making proposition."
: He denounced the policy of praying
' for peace on Sundays and selling wea-
pons of war on week-days as rank hy
pocrisy. j The embargo was vigorously urged
. hv Senators Hitchcock, Clapp. Works.
. Ashurst. Lane. Martin and La Toilette.
Legislation Needed to Prevent : Senator Stone,- chairman of the For
DltrrSmmiih'on Kv Fnreicm I eten Relations Committee. before
FOREICII TRADE
mm on
TARIFF
Countries Says Speaker at
Trade Convention.
NEW ORLEANS. Jan. 27. "If
placed tinder arrest bv military an-
WASHINGTON. Jan. 27. Although thoritles on charges of disobedience to!
navy plans for twenty-five knot steam
driven submarines will probably stick
for the present twenty knot oil driven
submersibles. Experts say twenty
knot vessels Schley type now building
faster than any foreign submarine so
far known. Possible top speed any
submarine now service, sixteen to sev
enteen knots. Hight spted German,
British submarines doubled,
superior officers and
national law.
violating lnter-
. INDIANS SUFFER MUCH
YT7MA. Jan. 27. The heaviest prop
erty damage of the recent flood fell to
the Indian and white renters, accord
ing to latest reports practically all In
dian adobes were destroyed,
cor' TIT4NIC DEATHS
vw vnww .T"" 27. Atomevs for
ihn VMa p-r I.tn arnoiincArl that,
f wpmpntfl jit fcpn reached with
mow "no r'atmant wherehv a-
hoi tMfi (inn will h pM fm rljtims
Holnw fmm t Tifawtc disaster Th
hn unit r.M Mrs
Sharp Note is Sent American
Ambassador for Transmis
sion to England on Interfer
ence with U. S. Mails.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 27. The text
of the American protest to Great Brit
ain on interference with neutral mails
was made public tonight. It reveals
that diplomatic and consular pouches
were treated in a manner which the
United States considers as "vexatious
ly inquisitorial." The note describes
the practices or British officials as
"unwarranted interference," and as
"urgently requesting a prompt reply."
It points out that "strong feeling
was aroused" in this country by the
loss of valuable letters. It says for
eign banks are refusing to cash Amer
ican drafts because there is no assur
ance that drafts are secure in the
mails.
The United Slates declares parcel
post articles are entitled to exemption
of national trade. It denies the right
of Great Britain to take a neutral ship
into British jurisdiction for the pur
pose of search and then submitting
them to local censorship regulations.
It also denies the British government
has any authority over neutral sealed
mails on ships merely touching British
ports . The American note is in the
form of a memorandum to Ambassador
Page at London, instructing him to file
a "foimal and vigorous protest."
pending, said he thought this was not
the time to express opinions nor to
discuss them. Senator Robinson, the
w;Only senator expressing himself, on-
are to maintain after the present war ; posed to the embargo, insisted it
the foreign trade we may establish it mieht return the plague to the United
seems imr-r.-tive that We have means s,"" in time of fl' with ottr
rnations.
at our disposal to prevent foreign conn j
tries from discriminating at win n-1
gainst our products." said J. J. Cul-1
bertson. President of the Interstate'
Cotton Seed Crushers' Association, in
an address before the National For-1
eign Trade Convention here today. '
"This we cannot wo under the present
tariff act." he asserted, "since this act
contains no provisions under which i
preventative action can be taken."
Mr. Culbertson continued:
"The tariff act of 199 empowered i
the President to increase the minimum
duties on imports from any foreign;
RADIO EMERGENCY SERVICE.
LOS ANGELES. Jan. 27. Radio be
tween San Francisco and Los Angeles
was depended on for several hours to
night as radio service of the enl.r
means of telegraphic communication
with the outside world, while a
strenuous effort is being made by
hundreds of railroad workers to keep
the valley line of the Southern Paci
fic from succumbing to the ravages of
wi ld and rain.
All telephone and telegraph win
failed shortly after noon. At San
country that discriminated unjustly ( pe,iro great breakers swept the piers
against the products of this country.
By the application of the maximum
tariff, equivalent to an addition of 25
per cent, ad val.. the power given tha
President was too great and too un- j
wieldly, to apply in a practical and sat-i
isfactory manner. It placed in , bis
hands the retaliatory n-esns of insti-
and breakwaters and outgoing strip
ing was paralized. Only two coasting:
vessels successfully crossed the bar.
At night the rain, which totalled 2.58
Inches in the last twenty four hours,
abated somewhat, but the velocity of
the wind increased materially. Wire
communication was re-established at
tutlng an increase in all importations , a late hour tonight,
from an offending country, but not on I
any specified articles or part of such
importation.
"When the tariff act of 1909 was
passed the President temporarily with
held the benefit of the minimum tariffs
from the Dual Monarchy because of
uniust discrimination in tariff duties
asainst an important product of manu
facture of this country. Upon, assur
ances that the discrimination would be
promptly and satisfactorily adjusted,
that country was eiven the benefit of
our minimum tariffs
I o.a. r . . v v ami. . hi raL
I damage was done the Midway oil
I fields today in 'the storm, according
j to reports late tonight. Two weeks
1 ago a similar blow toppled over the
' derricks in that section causing loss
of more than a half million.
I Torrential rains are falling In South
: ern California and heavy precipita-
tion in the northern part. Washouts
occurred on the coast railway lines.
EDITOR'S CHILDREN KILLED
The Southern Pacific is the only road
The diplomatic j capable of operation in the southern
necotlations dragged for six years be- i part of the state. As shipping re
fore the promises were finally fulfilled ceived ample warning of the storm it
and meanwhile the unwarranted dis-1 Is believed no vessels suffered,
crimination had wiped out our trade
In that product with that country. The ;
BERLIN CELEBRATES
Administration then had the choice of
penalizing all Imports from that coun-j BERLIN. Jan. 27. Berlin streets
try to the extent of 25 per cent. ad. j presented an appearance of great vic
val.. or of permitting such unjust dis-1 lories being celebrated. Public and
rrimination because of tbe absence of Private buildings were profusely be-
decked In honor of the Emperor's birth
nVnth diim win j o'"" wa which Dy a nania re irain ai i
tron w Hrri ' ,h crossing. The dead are the three!
hKhnn w )0,t in th sinking ''Khters of E. R. Vallandingham. edi
of the vessel. ,or of a ,oral pw,iPPr-
were killed instantly ana anotner proo 0 , jff , , ,v mt, anviday. The Emperor was absent at ar-
ably fatally injured when an automo- forHrn r0untry to isndulv di-criminate my headquarters and virtually shut off
In any manner it may see fit against
any article of merchandise that may
be imnorted from this country into
(Continue on Tage Four)
from contact with the demonstration
of popular homage. Through hit own
reonest the public refrained from
sending congratulations or presents.
