Itobltc
THE" "WEATHER,
.
TIIK LEDGER Is an advertising
2 inrdlnm Hint brings results. Onr J
I rules nro consistent with clrcn !
Inlli.n, Honks open to Inspection. !
!
! 'i-:-:. .j.
Ha In or snow In nest, rain In !
fwtl much colder Saturday, I
I I I t 2 i l 1 l I I I
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY. FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 1016.
tA 11 Y rVM.IO LRDQRRtttt.
ONE COPY ONE CENT.
NEW FIRM
SNEAK THIEF ENNUIS HOMES.
v.
).
"AMI THKlti: STANDS OLD KEN-TITKY."
I bought 11 horse, n gallant natf,
In old Kentucky Hired;
I also bought n riinaliont,
Hed'Ulieelcd nnd rublier-tlred.
I pnrclinsed next a motor enr
And mndo the gnnel llyj
And then I got an irroplano
To trntel through the skjr.
Now, when the icroplnno comes down
With hroken tlnp or wheel,
My chauffeur lends tho crippled kite
Upon the snlft mobile;
And when the nnlo, too. declines
To take the honicwnrtl track,
.My trusty steed comes trotting up
And tows us safely back!
Mlnnn Irving In Munscy.
TO MARRY FEBRUARY 3
District Attorney Thomas D. Slattery
of This City, To Heroine a
Itrnedlrt (In That Date.
The- marriage of Hon. Thomas D.
Slattery of this- city, and Miss Mario
J. Ilattcrmann of Ohio avenue, Cincin
nati, will take place Thursday morn
ing, February 3, at 9 o'clock, at St.
George's church, Calhoun street, Cin
cinnati. Tho prospective bridegroom Is the
United States attorney for the East
ern District of Kentucky.
Owing to the recent death of Attor1
ney Slattcry's father the wedding Is to
bo a quiet event.
State Sunday School Field Secre
tary V. J. Vaughn Is In the city In
terviewing the local workers In regard
to the Sunday school conditions in
Maysvlllc and Mason county. He Is,
urging a special "Go to Sunday School
Day" for May 7. W'c want Maysvlllc
to have at least 1,800 In the schools
that day. It has been provon beyond
tho shadow of doubt that for every
dollar spent by the association five
were added to the church.
Our price this week for butterfat,
32 cents Maysvlllc. Drlng It Iir any
day, any tlmo of tho day, and receive
your check promptly.
MAYSVILLR MODEL CREAMERY.
Mr. L. T. Anderson of Hillsboro, was
a Maysvlllc visitor Thursday.
SEWER IN NEED OF KKI'AIIIS,
The thirty-Inch sower emptying Into
Hunter's Hottom Is In need of repair,
tho recent high water having hroken
tho cement plpo In several places.
Some of tho holes nro largo enough to
easily permit a man to climb through
them. This Is one of tho. moat Impor
tant sewers In the city and should be
put In condition nt once.
CANDY SALE AT ELECTRIC SIlOl.
Tho Ladles' Aid Society of tho Third
Street M. E. church will havo a candy
sale Saturday at tho Electric Shop
on West Second street. w-f
Yesterday afternoon Mr. Millard V.
Williams, tho Third street druggist,
was seen going to his place of busi
ness in his shirtsleeves, with his cont
thrown over his arm. Of course, this
might lead to a discussion about this
weather and how wnrm it has been
aw, what's tho use.
Arc you taking advantage of tho
bargains In women's shoes nt Dark
ley's Itcmoval Sale?
SPECIAUERM
Of Mason Circuit Court To lie Held
February 7 To Henr Loral
Option Mandate Itcnd.
The 0. F. Dc I'oss Conipnny To Lo.
cnte In This City.
Tho mandato from tho Supremo
Court of tho United States In the Ma
son county local option case, which
was received here soveral days ago
and was then forwarded to tho Court
of Appeals nt Frankfort, was return
ed to the local option attorney hero
Wednesday afternoon.
A special term of the Mason Circuit
Court has been set for February 7,
when the mandato will bo read In
court, ordered recorded and become
effective Immediately. Circuit Judge
C. D. Newell has issued the following
order:
"Notice is hereby given that a spec
ial term of the Mason Circuit Court
! will be held nt tho courthouse In the
City of Maysvlllo, Ky., beginning on
Monday, February 7, 1916. This spec
ial term Is called pursuant to Section
964 Kentucky Statutes, nnd Is for tho
purpose of motions, orders and Judg
ments In the case of Dlcner ot nls. vs.
Lane et nls.. and In tho caso of Cotn-
imomvcalth of Kentucky vs. John
Moore.
I "Witness my hand this 27th day of
January, 191C. C. D. NEWELL,
"Judge Mason Circuit Court."
1915 OUR BANNER YEAR 1915
We wish to than our many friends and custoiws for their liberal patronage for this,
our fourth year io business, which has proven to be considerable beyond our anticipation, for
which we are very thankful
We are now looking forward to a greatly increased business the coming year and we
have Installed the latest and most improved equipment for handling your orders, which guar
antees high grade mill work and satisfaction to all, at the best possible prices.
We are leaders in our line.
TUC Ul-CflU IIIUDCD PnUDilJV CORNER LIMESTONE AND SECOND
i in. mHoun LumuLit uumiHin
a. A. Mclaughlin.
STREET. PHONE 519.
L. X. It EUAN.
IllXlllllllllIlllIHIHIIIIIIIlIllllllll
HOBBIES
A prominent physician tells us that "hobbies" are healthy
H things for us to have, nnd we feel that wo must be blessed with
j unusually good health, as we have ALWAYS hnd a hobby H
and it's
HARNESS!
Years ago, when leathersold for nineteen eents'a pound, 5
our boast was that we made the best harness that could he
made of good leather, good thread and good workmanship. 5
Now, when that same kind of leather is selling for forty-nine B
nnd fifty cents a pound, we still maintain that wo hnve tho m
best harness that can be made. All you have to do to prove
that we are telling you facts is to go to the next "sale," and
hear Col. Ifensley Hawkins say in that musical drawl for which
he is so famous, "This is a set, gentlemen, of Miko ttrown'n
Harness. What do you bid?" Then's when you can see tho
farmer "set up and take notice," for he knows there will bo
some bidding on that harness.
This is the time of the year, when Harness is foremost in
every farmer's mind, and this is the time of the year, also,
when we are ready to sell him. All winter long our men havo
been making up harness for Spring trade, and now we nro
ready. Of course, it's higher than when our grandfathers
used to buy it, but, considering the price of leather, it's a
wonder how low in price nnd high in quality tho Square Deal
harness is.
Come in, gentlemen, we are ready to rig up those horses.
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE OEAL SMAI"
s
j
1
E
!
EVERYONE LIKES THE SAVOR OF WHEATINA
THY ONI'. PACKAGE. IT 80LYE8 THE BREAKFAST PROBLEM.
JUST TAWED ANOTHER IIABHEL OF THE FINEST NEW 0HLEAN8
.MOLASSES EYEtt DROUGHT TO TOWN,
OglgfiL &CONRAH PkOH 43,
Tho 0. P. Do Fosa Company, general
brokers, of Clnclnnntl, have, rented the
Newell property on Market street, for
merly occupied by tho Wells wholcsala
whisky house, nnd will stnrt to do
ing business hero Immediately.
Tho now firm docs n soiling busi
ness on n large scale for wholesale
groceries nnd other mercantile houses.
They will keep no stock In Maysvlllc
but will keep samples and send out
agents to sell for these llrms. About
twenty agents will work for tho firm
nnd their hendqunrters will be In
Masvlllc when not on the road.
Tho building is undergoing a thor
ough overhauling preparatory to Its
occupancy by tho new firm.
Wo welcome such enterprises nnd
trust that they will find Maysvlllo a
suitable place for their enterprise.
RAISED INBRACKEN
Ami Anr Ono From This .Section of
Kentucky Certainly Knows How
To Itnlso Tobacco.
(Bracken Chronicle.)
Mr. Nowton Remley, who left
Bracken county twenty-eight or thir
ty years ngo nnd Bettled In Woodford
county near Vcrsnilles, moved last
yenr to Mercer county, near Hnrrods
l)u tr nnd raised fourteen acres ot to
bacco on what is known as tho Foun
tain nine farm. Ho sold 8,000 pounds
lr.rt week on tho market at Harrods-
burg. two baskets of which brought
74 and 7C cents respectively per
pound. Two guards were hired to
gunrd the two baskets until tho sale
ns over, to keep the crowd from car-
.yln? it away. Mr. Ilemloy has the
balance of his fourteen acres in the
barn yet nnd thinks It Is better than
tint which he has sold. Mr. llcmlcy
was raised In tho Locust Grove neigh
borhood.
NINTH ANXIVEKSAKY MEETING.
The Ladles' Aid Society of tho East
Second Street M. E. church, South,
held Its ninth nnnlvcrsury meeting at
the homo of Mrs. J. W. Slmpsou.. Aft
er n short business session n literary
program was rendered.
Mrs. Joseph Wells gave an excel
lent resume of the past life of tho
society from Its beginning to the pres
ent time, showing that the work done
by the women of this church Is sec
ond to none In the city. Mrs. Williams
read an article which aptly set forth
tho endeavors of Ladies' Aid Societies
In general. Mrs. Dawson recited most
beautifully a musical number nnd
Mrs. Currcy made a few remarks
about tho present nnd future of the
society.
After this program a supper was
served which was a delight to tho epi
curean eyo and taste. Each lady had
brought Just whnt sho wished to and
then? was nothing lacking to make a
Joyous feast. May our Ladles' Aid So
ciety always exist and inoy Its num
ber never grow less.
TOnACCO SALES.
Only ono house reported a full salo
Thursday, ns follows:
Central.
Pounds sold 162,025
High price $47.00
Low price $3.00
Average $11.21
Special J. E. Woodward, Mason
county, $24.22; Preston Simons, Ma
son county, $14; Hcchlngcr & Gallca
stein, Mason county, $13.40; ltlggs &
Flora, Mason county, $1C15; McGee
& Roblson, Mason county, $17.40.
Dlock sales at Home and Independ
ent houses.
COUNTY COUHT.
W. W. Ball, Jr., (maimed as notary
publlo with W. W. Hall, Sr., as surety
on bond.
J, F. I'ollltt qualified as notnry pub
lic with J. M. Collins as surety on
bond.
MEETING POSTPONED.
Tho business meeting of tho Phlla-
tbea class of First Baptist church has
been postponed.
Corbott Brown, who la wanted In
I.owls county on a charge ot stealing
coal from the C. & 0., and cutting
tho air on a train, was arrested at
Ashland.
W. M. Nicholson ot Ashland, a rel
ative of Mr. Georgo C. Fleming of this
city, has been granted a patent on a
banana and fruit rack.
Dr, Charles W, McClanauan of
Ixmlsvllle, Is visiting his parents, Mr
and Mrs. B. V. McClanahan of West
Second street.
Lula Lucas won the Bet ot dishes
lilvcn away by the Washington Opera
House on .WUaesday nlghj, 93s-
Thursday morning about 3 o'clock
a sneak thief entered tho homes' of
Mr. C. F. McNnmnra and Gordon dress
on East Fifth street nnd stole sever
al dollars. At the McNamara resi
dence the thief entered through n
window In tho dining room nnd nfter
making a thorough search of tho low
er floor entered tho bedrooms ot tho
second story, tnklng several dollars
from tho occupants.
At the Grcss home tho Introducr en
tered through a window and searched
tho pockets of Mr. Gross, procuring a
ncnt sum of money. At both places
tho thief overlooked sovcrnl valuable
articles. The victims of the robbery
havo secured n young battery of ar
tillery and promise any other Intruder
n wnrm reception.
LAST CALL ON I'l l'tS.
Professional grader will grade your
furs every Saturday until tho season
closes. FARM KUS PRC-DUCK COM
PANY, Receivers of Eggs nnd Poultry.
Phono 3!S.
MAIL OUIIEKS PltOMPTLY FILLED.
DID YOI OUT YOUR COAL1
Thursday morning nbont 10 o'clock
Hast Maysvlllo nlong tho (', & O. rnll
road was visited by ono of the best bits
of luck that has been honrd or nbout
this neck of tho woods for a long tlmo.
A long train loaded with coal passing
west contained a car that bad several
portions of tho bottom missing, per
mitting tho coal to drop along the
rond. Every resident along the path
of this trnln of providence was out
with buckets nnd sacks, cnrrylng tho
black diamonds Into cellars. It Is es
timated that several hundred bushels
of coal was deposited by tho train ns
It passed through.
SHOE SPECIAL FOR SATURDAY.
Women's shoes, broken lots but
hnvo nil sizes anil widths, $3 to $4.50
vnluen for $1.45.
BAUKLEY'S SHOE STORE, Inc.
When EillHnn nnvn t nm cmtlaflnf!
m
with It now, after thirty-seven years '
experimenting, means something. Hear
the now Edison Diamond Disc Phono- S
graph nt J. T. Kackley & Company. ' h
Creamery Butter
g Per Pound 35 Cents In
Blue
Grass
Wax
Cartons
Marin in (VTn inn! 1 1 .1 . . A A. Pi. T T? . . r...
"it Sure Is Good.
jj DINGER BK0S. 107 wTsT2"od S!rco'-1
Mr, T J. Roux of Augustn, was In FOIt SALE Household furnlturt.
Maysvlllo Thursday on business. Ernlo Ort, 30 East Third street. 3i
BIG SPECIAL SALE NO. 4
FOR Fill DAY AND SATURDAY
:
m
8 Cents 3
Best Machine Oil and
Can All For
Splendid For Sowing Machines, Etc.
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY S
Bring Us Your Laundry. We Are Agents For the Modern. S
For all grades of whiskies and
liquors. Our prices are right. Order
today. Poyntz Bros., Covington, Ky.
Representative Webb said he would
continue the fight for prohibition, al
though he admitted there was no hope
of getting n state-wide bill through
tho Senate after the Frost defeat of
Tuesday.
ANOTHER STATE
, . WIDE BILL
Will Be Introduced Temperance '
Forces Transfer Fight To the
House At 1'iankfort. ' j
State V. ('. T. I', otliclnls announced ;
Thursday that the fight for the pas- j 1
rage of a state wide amendment would 1 1
be kept up and transferred to the)
House, where a measure similar to the !
Frost bill, defeated lu tho Senate,
would be introduced In the next few
days.
Tho tcmpcrnuco organization will
also champion a bill providing for
"tempcranco day" in public schools of
tho state annually tho fourth Friday
In October.
Mrs. Ida Smott, 48, died near I
Grange City, leaving a husband nnd
family besides other relatives nnd For Saturday only Box of Special
friends. Mixed Candy 10c. TRAXEIAS.
Mr. A. E, Kenton of Mt. Olivet, was
In this city Thursday
THE HDME DF QUALITY CLDTHES
It isn't fair to judge this sale of Suits and Overcoats by the reduction alone.
While the savings are considerable, it is not hard to find offers that appear as im
portant but what are the brands of the Suits and Overcoats offered?
Here we offer makes of standard values; you know what they are worth. R.
B. Fashion Clothes; Stein-Bloch; Michcels, Stern & Co.; Hirsh-Wickwire and So
ciety Brand.
$20 for $22.50 and $25 Suits and Overcoats.
$15 for $16.50 and $18 Suits and Overcoats.
$10 for $12.50, $13.50 and $15 Suits and Overcoats.
The vastness of assortment precludes any possibility of your being disapp
pointed in not getting the style and cloth you want.
If you are "hard-to-fit," this is your opportunity. We have models to fit men
of every build.
55 HEoiilNGBRr&CO.
PARIS
COPIES
It sounds absurd to say any of this popular priced
nndeiwcar was copied from Paris models, nevertheless
it is true. Much of this lingerie is directly copied from
the French. Less cosily nainsook and batiste, more in
expensive luce, and machine work instead of hand stitch
ing brings the American product within the reach of any
woman who loves dainty undergarments.
Nightgowns 50c to $2
.Material not too sheer, but very soft nnd line, at
tractively trimmed with embroidery or lace $1; elabor
ately trimmed "best gowns" $2.00.
Envelop Chemise 50c, $1
Inexpensive and daintier than any we've ever hat.
The coolest garment ever made for summer wear.
Corset Covers 25c to $1
Doens and dozens of pretty garments, all with re
inforced arm holes. Corset Covers were never more nr
tistically designed, more perfectly made than are tbese
dainty garments and from the simplest to the most elab
orate you will find the pricing as practical as the Corset
Covers are pretty.
Princess Slips 50c, 75c
A charming representative of the "something new"
you can always count on finding in this sale. These prac
tical garments are for children 0 to 14 years old and
judging 'from (he eagerness with which mothers are buy
ing, this "Little Lady's Slip" must supply a long felt
want.
Women's Suits at Half Price
Each-, accurately interpreting Fashion's latest mode.
Each authentic to the most minute detail. Workmanship
and finish of extreme excellence. Incorporated are the
newest ideas in collars, sleeves, pockets, length of coats
and the approved style in skirts.
Suits of exceptional merit for $25 and at the HALF
PRICE, $12y they are wonderful bargains.
Editor James C. Nowcomb ot the j Sir. Paul Hctlln ot Flomlngsuurg, Judgo J. M. Leo of Vanccbure, was
Ripley Beo was a jiIeaBant visitor at j was In this city Thursday attending, In this city Thursday on legnl busl
tlils ofllco Thursday. tho tobacco sales, ucsa
Twenty-thrco years ago tho Ohio
river wns frozen over from shoro to
tliore.
Saturday Will Be Red Letter Day
Double Stamps Last Day To Get Doll Tickets
Saturday begins our After-Inventory Sale. On every $2 purchase or over on Saturday we shall give a
Silver Souvenir Spoon. Only one spoon to each customer. Come Saturday with the CASH prepared to
buy some great bargains. Besides the goods offered in the big sale we shall ofrer the following:
l;AI)li:S' SUITS-Cholro u( slock ut M price.
LAWKS' FANCY COATS ro at )i price.
LA I) IKS' 1IL.VCK COATS-W'j'fc discount.
CJUMmK.VS COATS-Cliolco at H price.
Fl'HS Our fctoek kocs at )i price.
IiADIKS' IIATS-Cliolce of uny lint for USr.
CIIIUIItKN'S HATS-Cliloce, 50 r.
CUllillRCVH RAIN CAl'KS 1.
LADIES' IIRKSSES-One lot north up to if-'.i tu ko at ?1.S to (1.9$.
LADIKS' IIRKSSKS The balance of our Mock lesN:i.'lV3r discount.
ROUSE PHESSliS All In stork ko ut CUr.
SKATING COATS Worth ."S-$1.98.
CHlLllti:.VS ICR DRKSSKS One lot worth up lo $3, 08c. Ono
lot north up to $l.'.'5, 50c.
CIIIUIRDN'S AVOOL DltLSSKS oue-lialf price.
LADIES' COLORED PETTICOATS 09c, north up to i.
SHOES lO'e. discount.
LADIES' MUSLI.V DRAWERS Tlie htt 50c uilao on the market,
:i for $1.
CHILDREN'S 31l'SLl DRAWERS Trimmed nlth enibrolderr,
Mze 3 to 13 jcars, 10c.
.MISSES Ml'SLlX DRAWERS-Wortli 20c, sale prlco 3 for 25c.
f
MMi wMKam JElfe KH BEiw mMkmWki wm
:
