THE BEMING GRAPHIC
a . '
'Deminj Air
100 per et. Pure
Breathing Tent
M A LIVK PAPER IN A LIVE TOWN
basing Water
tJH Pure
Governm't Tent
VOLUME XIV, NUMBER XXII.
DrTTNO, LUNA COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, JAXl'ARY 28, 1916.
AT CMR W3UEI
'CCKira tsTTLira to
tsssza vcxy km
I Gardner of El Patio, who has
the Cocoa -Cola bottling rilitH for
Ihi three southwestern New Mexico
counties, has sent n car of hot ties
Saturday Night at th Harvey HouMi"nd ,h" """iuery necessary fr the
.... oiwrntinn of the Itaminir Hottline
namlnMlt nselifstf m I ttiiiuin .... "
.......n,.... ..v.... works, which is lo he located in the
A New Booster Campaign
LAND FREE TO GOOD SETTLERS
0. E. Bailey and C. H. Hon Will Go
Into Field Soon to Interest Real
.Farmer In the Proposition
A budget of ut least $7,01)11 won
assured in ten niinule lift it I lie null
for fund was iiihiIv ut the clone of
I lie lwniii't Saturday night of the
Denting Chamber of ( 'nmmerce ut the
Hnrvcy bono, where the twn booster
met lo consider plan for the re
sumption of advertising the Minibres
Vnlley iiiiH it farming pnibilitic.
Tim remarkable Minilire Volley spli
it wiih evoked, hm it him not lieen for
ninny moon, mid it is helieved that
Deming is again on the eve of n de
veliiimeiit thnl is to he more Hiiti.
fnetory mid ierimiiifiit Ih mi prev.
inn growth has lieen.
Those attending were: T. . Tuck
er, Thomas Marshall, . A. lamer
on, John lister, X. A. Hnli.-h, A, J,
Tidmore, I'. II. lion, A. W. Hanson.
Henry Meyer. Ilcnrge Knniscy, II.
V. Mel 'mi, J. C. Wntsnn, Dr. H. I'
IIoU'miiiii, F.dw. I'ei'. glnll, ). II
Penxotli, T. R. Tnv.'r, E. I'. Well.
Hyde Enrl Ely. II. If. Kelly. J. F.
Dodercr, S A. Cox, S. Liu.luucr
Wnlter Chirk, lr. M. .1. Mornn, Cha.
Selinel'f. I Inch Hmnsay, D. I.. Mey
er, II. C. Mlrowii, llenn- Rnilhel.
Much II. Williams, A. C Rnilhel. Al
lien Field. O. ('.. Bailey, Dr. E. S.
Milford, C I. Hubbard. M. Xnrdhan.
, I'. .1. Kelly. U. O. Hnodgres. .1 A
Mahoncv, H. A. I.vnd, .1. S. Vniiiihl.
' A. A. Temke. F. I.. Xnrdhaus, E. R.
Vallandighuni, .1. II. Co.ii.cr, )r. P.
M. Steed. .1. M. Crawford. II. W.
Rutherford. C. W. Cook. W. V. Bar
rack, Fred Shennmi, Curl Pcttgh, W.
A. McCrenry, Clm. Hughes, E. B
linrein, R. L. Miller, James (larr, A.
W. Pollard. P. P. .Wbwnrth. W. S.
Hark, mid O. I.. Owen.
The meeting nn.. presided over h
.1. A. Mnlloni'V, president of thrl
ehnOilM-r of eoniiiieree. A. A. Temki
explained the purpose of the gather
inc. which is, liriefly, lo raise the
money to curry on mi advert iin&
enmpnign. mid to send men into the
field to bring MrnmiHy to the notice
of those seeking farms, the advantage-
offered in the great Mimhrcs
VnlleV mid the plnli for settletnelil
proposed.. The plnn eontemphttes
the plnciiiL' under control of the
I'limnhcr of commerce n Inive hody
of In ii il in the volley thnl is to lie
irivcn free to hoinccckcr under tin.
fcillowinvr condition: Under eoutrnet
hllildinu now ocein.ied hv the Went
ern Trnimfer ConiMiny on Silver ave
nue. Mr. Onrdner Kent out a man to
install the machinery. Thin will take
only a few days. 2,(MMJ worth nf
botllex with the name of the new
firm Ibowu on them have been ordered.
Benefit Performance
Monday niirht Mmiuirer Hull will
itive a lMnfif terfnrmnnne at the
rrineexK theater for the Doming
lidk'e of the L. O. I). M. On this oe.
eiision he will prcxenl Hie Hnwniim,
MiuirerH mid ilnver. The niirht he-
fore Hie atlraelion eonien to thiH city,
I will he neeii in El Paso, when the
nriee for loo hchU will lie 1. Mini.
mrer Hull ix i linivinit only hnlf of the
pnee for the hext wen In in the Prin-
eeHH. The atlraelion in not unknown
here or elsewhere and it in a fael
that a inoKt enjoyable evening emi
he Hienl with Huh clever troiiie of
aiiiKen, players and dancer.
GAT INTEREST CHIN BOYS'
O 6I,KS' CLUB O IN LO
Membership More Than Doubled By
Efforts of Mist Graee Goebel, the
County Superintendent, and Prof
Conway, of N. M. State College
FIVE CENTS THL COPY
OMLOlnl
OTSJfl KILLED
Crushed to Death at 6:35 Last Eve-
mitt Kaon Switching. Train Hit
Auto; Were Going Home
G. 0. CRITCHET WAS INJURED
. R. Vallandigham, Painfully Though
Not Seriously Injured, Is At the
Doming Ladies' Hospital
tTontinucd on pane 2.)
DEMING RIFLE CLUB HAS RE
CEIVED GUNS AND SUPPLIES
The chili enrollment for the boy
mid uirls of Lunn county will he
more tliuu doubled and several urn
icct undertaken an a result of last
wk round of i be various school
by Prof. W. T. Conway of the Ktalo
( nllcijc, and ( ounly Hchool Hiiierin-
tendeul llrnce IIocIh'I.
The chicken project will prohnhlv
have the liiiycst ineinheiship mid
the pif club will he second in numb
ers. Other clubs will be formed in
cookinif. sewinir. eardenins. and can-
nine. One nf the most hopeful and
enthusiastic imuips i the one (foinir
into I lie inir rmsini! contest. Then-
are neurly a many trirls uivinir Ibis
project en refill study a there are
hoy. Each member lui a little pi
mid is ready lo start in the contest.
The children renlir.e that to beirin
with, clean, smiilnry, and comfort
uhle ipuirlers mid enreful, judicious
feediui! are as necessary for the pips
as for the chickens.
Prof. W. T. Conway will furnish
explicit instructions a lo the proer
proceed n re for the best result in the
sHcinl project chosen. The thought,
fill attention, emit ions questioning,
mid practical iliscussinn of the young
students are promising of aueeess
for each club and club pupil. All
are looking forward to study, work,
instruction, pleasure, mid, at least, a
small deiMisit in the bunk next sum.
incr mid fall. Last, and H-rhnps the
Tin di-sc- l,oo.c. Eili. .in. I o
Olll'KOll lllllllt'"llttll. jlUCll in.
Iiint t.'l veins re-etivel. ,biu-hler
of K''i" K. R. Viiiiuli"h ot tin
Heinintr Hendli)rht and Mrs. Vnlluu
diulinni, were iilmost uistmilly kil
led at 11:35 o'elm k lost evening when
an automobile in which they had
started to their home three mile
northwest of the city was demolished
by a Knnta Fe switch euuine and
train that hacked down on the mach
ine al the Hold it venue crossim?
Oeorge Critchet, driver of the ear,
who i a linotype otierntnr in tin,
Headlight office and who lived iu
the name vicinity, is in the local Iiom
pital not exiected to survive the dav.
A Urol examination shows a broken
leg, broken arm, badly lacerated
enlp, and internal injuries the full
extent of which have not vet been
ascertained. Mr. Vnllniidighmu, who
was also in the autoiiiob'le, escaped
with two broken ribs and cuts and
bruises about the head. He was
conscious when the aged crossing
tender reached the spot and extri
cated himself from the wreck with
out assistmice. He is also receiviui:
medical attention nt the local hos
pital. JTaa frowning' lender says that he
waved hi lantern and blew bis whis-.
tie and I fiat the car stopped for a
moment, stnrtinir across the track
Just nn the engine hacked a slriiurl
IN MEK0RIAM
How shall we mourn for the
beautiful children which were
with us yesterday, hut who
today are numliered with the
deud: How shall we comfort
the grief stricken mother and
father, whose glory ha gone
from them between two suns?
Our lamentations full short
of the paralysing sorrow, mid
the good Hod alone enn bring
consolation il,c desolate
hen it..
To recount the goodness and
virtues of ih,. departed is to
odd affliction lo regret. We
nil knew them and loved them.
That they should go to untime
ly graves is licyoiid our under
standing, but we can believe
thul they have arrived at thi
happiest of all stales. Our
care is to minister as best we
may to those on whom the dis
tressing tragedy bus laid a
grex'ious burden.
k Mill
n LULL II
0,1 AIL WAR FKOdTS
MRS. L. A. MORRIS DIED THIS
MORNING AT FRESNO, CALIF.
hi
Interest Now Centers
Moves of Entente Allies Against
Their Allied Enemies
GERMANY MEETS U. S. DEMANDS
A dispatch received this morning
from Fresno, Cal., by Ed Oodden,
:eontain the sad new of the death
j of hi witer, Mr. I,. A. Mnrri, who
Political died at 4 "'Hock this morning. Mr.
..lorns wn a popular woman of this
city, and her frend and admirers
comprised the entire community.
She wa year old, and before
moving lo California had lived in thi
city for ten year.
The officers of tin, Thirteenth U
S. Cavalry are issuing invitation for
a leap year dunce to be given early in
rclirnurv.
of ear nern the wa.v. A loaded
eoal ear of the train struck the ear
a little hack of the center where the
young women were ridi.ig in the rear
seat. The rear truck of tin- roal ear
was derailed after pii.-inu over a
Hirtion of the demolished aiiloiuoliile.
The machine had been rolled ulunij
the track and wa ground to hits hv
the terrific weight.
The storm curtains were on the car
all the way mound ami the younu
women were ennirht und uimiidcil
without nn import unit v to escaiie.
They wen- found alongside of tin
track dead.
D WON HIS WATER RMS
IN CONTEST BROUGHT BY STIVERS
Handing Down of Decision by U. S
Land Office is of Interest to All
Cattlemen: Homestead Entries
Were Thought to be Invulnerable
I lie rejection Inst week of the
lioiiie-li'inl entry of William Sliver
for a tract of land in the southern
tmrl of the count v nn which V. .1.
Wi.iid muiiitniiied a reservoir for the
viilerina nf stock, Is of intense inter,
est to stockmen of this section. It
was freely predicted thai the home
lead entry would he allowed to
tmnl. A. W. Pollard nimeared foi
Mr. Wmnel. The cn-e wa- entitled
William E. Stivers v. William J.
Wmnel, contest before the United
States land office nt La Once.
The decision is by the register and
receiver. It reads:
Dec. ill, inpj. Willi nn J. Wmnel
filed Reservoir Decliwnlory State
ment 0?K(i7. under Act of Jan. 1.1.
I!I7. for XV 1-4 XE 1-4 Sec. 20.
T. 'J7 S It. 10 V at which time said
township was misiirveycd.
! June 7, III 1.1. William E. Sliver
filed Homestead Application 01178i
I under See. L"'H!I R. S., for XE 1-4
Has Submitted A Note To American
Government Thought to bo the
End to Lusltania Controversy
Ifosiiliiie on all the fronts, having
for the moment subsided to unim
portant proMirtions, the political as
ect of the war again ha assumed
the chief role of interest.
The British parliament is discn.
sing what steps shall be taken to
make more rigid the government's
plan by keeping good of all kind
out ot Uermany. Hrilish labor has
to support the government in the full
prosaeutinn of the wnr. The Oermnn
embassador at Washington ha pre
sented the American government a
draft note concerning the winking of.
the Lusitania which i believed to,
meet all the American demand nn !
this issue and which, if accented, will
end that controversy. '
Oreat Britain ha answered tenta
tively the American protest against
the delaying of mails, hut will reply
more fully to the representations a
oon ns France ha signified her an-
pmvnl of Great Britain's attitude.
Simultaneously enme the announce-
ment that in the future French war-
hip will nid the British navv in
blockading the English channel and
the North sen. and will take nnrt in
the examination of mnil a well a
cargoe.
Death of Viola Irene Funi
' Viola Irene Fund died yesterday
j morning at II o'clock a. m. ' She wa
the infant daughter of Mr. and Mr.
Henry Fund, and had been ill for
I wo month. The funeral service
were conducted by the Rev. S. R.
McCliire in the afternoon. The Ma
honey undertaking establishment had
ehnrge of the funeral arrangements.
Burial was. made in the local ceme
tery.
Ueorge flraham, who met wit a pain
ful accident, returned to hi loon
thi week, after receiving tnntnnni
al the Incul hospital a number of
week.
Mr. F. A. Voge left the city for
Portland, Oregon, Wednesday.
KEETO OF NEW RHICO CATTLE
Sessions Will Be Held Here March
10 and 1 1. Chamber of Commerce
Preparing to Entertain Many Visi
tors From All Over New Mexico
Social Circle
The defeated section of the Social
Circle of the Christian church de
The Xew Mexico Cntila .,A u..-
Grower Association will meet in thi
eily, March 10 and 11. 0. W. Ruth
erford, acting secretary of the orgnn
ixation, who ha jut returned from
K1 Paso, is making arrangement for
the immrtnt meeting. The chamber
of commerce i iniJ i..
l. ... . . . .
me iruiii sciu iioui inc w i.. t o r ... .
: i ... . ... ' -" ' " " ' sine
"'. ". r ' " "f " w I illtlolls rcsid III..... sni.l l,.nH
of the collision, hut were nun: hi
-ince July J2, 1!K)S.
I , r. m
. , . -in. -,- ..in. ... i inn. .nine in,
the wreck. That one ol them should , .i. ..,r. . . .
i . . . , . . i " .T.fi-i'.. -inn in.piicmioii
nave ecai)ed w-ith enu.i.iirulive v I .. . . ... v... .., .
The fh-miug Rifle Club, nffilinled ! least in iiniMrtniic!. the viirion nn,
with tin' Xational Rifle As.iHMiition, j miuius offered, and the trip to the
have just received twelve Springfield lioy' and girl' encampment at the
star-gage rifle of the latest model; state fair in the fall, will he kept in
used in the United States army. A 1 mind mid a number of winner will
supply of ammunition wn n part nf.l announced at the completion of
ih.. lii. ...I. .ni IV,.,,. it., ff.icb l.ilit.,l ' f.,M..,,k fi..!... :n i. u
... " - ...(., ,n . ..j.-.-.n. ,1.. 1 lit in
arsnal. The guns are Ite'iig exhib
ited al n local store. The club cx-IH-cts
In begin target practice on the
Xational (luard range west of the
it y just us soon rs the weather is
favorable.
The club ha th privilegi of tak
ing part in all Male and national
eeiveil lor contest work until April I.
Prof. Conway, and other industrial
su-rvisni-s, will visjt anil assist the
worker in the several enterprise.
Siieriutendeu I.. C. Mersfelder,
state director of industrial education,
strongly eudonie and irive eredil in
I hi depart men t for the agricultural
slight injury 1 considered a marvel
Mr. Vnllandighnm w-ns brought to
the hospital shortly after the acci
dent and i said to la. standing Ihe
hock with great fortitude. Mr. Val
landigham, at last reports, was sleen-
ing under the influence of opiates
Vlicl with said H. D. 8. 07j(17. and on
June 2,1. 1015, Sliver apenled
therein, among other things, that he
was occupying the land prior" to fil
ing of said reservoir declaratory
slatcmeul, and further that Wamel
was not complying with the pmvjs-
, . . ' " " ' 'ii" unit , ,
Mrs. O. t rilchel ll.cr ol ; illlls , . ,., , ,,,, ,8fl?
fleorgi1 I'ritchet, wn brought immed
iately lo Ihe bedside of her -on.
lis Lniijse Vnllundighai blest
of the three dauuhlers, graduated
Commissioner's letter "F" HMD
Sept. 17. lf'1.1. directed that a hear
in Im had to determine whether or
not Wnnicl hi.il complied with -iiiil
... .... .-. . ...... ... ......... ... .... u, n,
limits under the auspices of the mi-1 extension work. Ho state that there
are hundred nf boys and girl that
art' eligible but who have never lie
Hue connected with this phase of
Ihe industrial ibinartment. and ree
ninmend that each' county fair of
the slate make provisions for and
hold a buy' and girl' department in
connection with the county fair next
...ii i r . ......
o .ns. ,,.n-. .... -'"1(e wit bin the next few week., fcun-
the er.,Hnre. a red .rn.l nn.fy.ng (f .
tionnl body.
Methodist Church
Bible study sermon next Sunday.
Every mi', ruble, and ts'iie in the
English nary has running through it
a red strand, identifying it a gov- j
crnment nroiH-rly. Xo one else can ;
the otherwise
writiug.
micoiineclcd I'lie of
their gnumd for the varioa farm
prislucts, Hcleciiug gnoil seed, aaenr-
liivK wmJ n 9 avJ . ... 1. 1 I.
. - W CHI", ',
Week End Club j duck, etc. The girl, in addition to
The Week-end Bridge Club was en-1 taking an active port uj the nonl
tertnined last Friday aftcnioon by I try biisine. would better aqMliit
Mr. J. C. Watson iu a delightful themselves with th aewmg; eow4dnt;.
manner. The higbet M'ore wa made and canning departments. ,
. . ax ii tt i
bv Mr. .M. Ii. Ans'iil. roiinwiug me
irnme Mr Watson scn'ed dainty re.
freshmeiil to the members of the
club and a few guests.
W. R. Swamy and Mrs, Swaniy
of Casa Orande, Ariz, are ia the city
for few days' rii.it with friend.
I Continued on lnt page)
irom the Ilem ug I liirll N. lionl two , ,.r I.... i i iao- ... .. ......
- - ' , ... , ... ..,i,. ,.si, .,, i..'.,.r.
years ago. Hho laugbt last year at mine the fact us lo Sliver' alleged
Waterloo and this year in the city settlement ruhls.
grade school. Mis Edna Vidian- Testimony in thi was tuken
diglinm, Ihe wcond daughter, wa a Xv. 2.1 and 24, 101.1. la-fore B. T.
student in the Dcmiug High School. ! M,. f
. , . , ... . , "I
and would have graduated this year. , Dcming. X. M.. at which time the
The youngest daughter, Sopbronu.! ,rlie ,,.r,tn .n.iN Mrc.l in
wn a pui.il in Ihe grade school-.. All ' mill lit' fiimtiuAl
three were bright and lovable young j
women and the community mourn
I heir loss.
As editor of the Deuiing Headlight,
Mr. Vallandigham i well-known over
the Southwest. Everyone sympn
thixe with him and Mr. Vallandig
ham in the (rent grief that ha over
taken them. Last night the com
mnnity was almost pnnic-trieken
when the news of the terrible trag
edy spread about the sreet.
The coroner's Jury at 10 o'clock
this Viorning returned a verdict sub-
stautiatuig the fact as reM.rted. The
ranreal will be hU at 11 O'clock next
Sunday morning at the Methodist
church.
Farmers' Social Club Meeting
There will lie a meeting of the
Mimbres Valley Farmers' Sm inl und
Indiistrinl Club Saturday, Feb. .1, nt
10 a. m. at the Honda le Mchmil house.
A in dinner will be served.
Local Moving Picture Reel
Xe.xt Wednesday, Thursday, and
Friday evening at Ihe Pastime the
ater there wil be presented a local
moving picture taken by Miielman
and Bonner, which should prove to
! Ihe most interesting show ever
put nn in Dcmiug. Three popnlnt
local young people will be seen in tli
moving picture comedy. ltenl
sccuee, include a run by the fire de
partment, public schools, n well a
some prominent citizen. Picture of
Simla Rita, and the Elephant Butte
ilniii will also he shown. Il give the
citizen nn o.rt unity to see them
selves a other sec them.
light fully entertained the winning i doubt le, will make the tnv of tin
section. Mr. J. M. Duff was the visitor H plea sunt nil. A Inrira
hostess Wc.hiesilnv Mfteri.iM... A tendance is riu.i.t...l f....... ..I. ...
- a...,,, ci ii t,tf.7
guessing contest and other forms of I 'hi section.
entertainment helped the time to pass I
pleasantly. Souvenir were present- h t
ed to each guest, and special snnve- All Vnlht. -?uj .
nirs were given to Mr. Lester. Mr," m$ll ll" hther ln
Johnson, and Mr. DeLong. A de. "w'" i-ii or not.
liejons 2-conrse luncheon wa erved. ! . "ne w',n a movement to estab-
The guests of honor were? Mr. " national Pylhian -iinitariuui. it
cn l v, w i- ilt.-il'Mil I.. . i.. ..:
, inn -i...ii.ris, rtir. is. mill, Sirs .-...i-r s,,., ii.cw hm ,i
Hull. Mr. W. J. Berry. Mr. Carson.! ,he '""nr of member of the ord. r
il,- R...- t R r..r-i r w i III New Mexico. Tk.
.... m-. ... iiiiT) .nr. .tie-1 i.iH,nni'i, itn
Clure. Mr. B. P. Johnson. Mrs. John ' ,,Hir,'d f"r ,n purpose of submitting
Lester. Mrs. Waller Russell. Mr. I xb nprenme l.wige. Knight of
Kennedy. Mrs. A. J. Barracks, Mrs. j r.v,hi,"s t its meeting in Portlnnd,
DeLong, and Mis Oraee Martin. 0r'B,'n. in August 1U1H, in nnlcr that
the Pythian membership in thi state
Ladies' Social Circle I ni.v known.
The Indies' Social Circle of the A11 Knights of Pythias, who are or
Presbyterian church will meet nextj w,l, cre members of lodge outside
Thursday afternoon with Mr. Hugh "f XMr Mexico, now living in Xew
T. Mitehclmore nt 3 o'clock in the nf M'-'M'-n. niv re.neted t.. fill out the
tcmoon at the parsonage. An inter- ''""I""' helow and mail it t. Hugh II
esting program in hetrin arranged "'H'nis, supreme repn-sentativo,
for the meeting, which will include, Snnt M.
vocal Nolo hv Mr. E. 1 Fonlkesi
ami Mis Madalinc Page, and read
tugs by Mi Kathleen Snll'van.
Attorney C. C. Royal ami Mr.
Royal, who have been recently mar
ried, stopiied over in Deming enroot
from El Paso to their home in Silver
Citv.
Altar Society
The Altar Society of the Catholic
church will elect officers at a spec
ial called meeting next Sunday.
A few of Mrs. B. M. Pevtnn's
friends met her at home Tuesday
afternoon and had an old-fashioned
quilting party a a part of the after
noon's pleasure. Bridge wa also
played, and the hostess served de
licious refreshments. Those present
were: Mrs. J. B. Hodgdon, Mrs. E.
L. Foulks, Mrs. J. 8. WaddilL Miss
Elizabeth Waddill. Mr. Tom Tsv-
lor, Mrs. Morris Xnrdhau. and Mrs.
0. Williams Rutherford.
Dinner
Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Hon en.
tertained with an elaborate dinner
Monday evening in honor of th
members of the West End Fire Hun
dred Club. The home on Spruce
street was artistically decorated with
red carnations and trailing vine.
Covers were laid for fourteen guest.
Following the delightful dinner, the
guest spent the evening playing
cards.
Wednesday Bridge Club
Mrs. R, M. Peyton entertained the
Wednesday Bri.lge Club this week.
Mrs. F .Thurmond mad Hm high
est scone. Mrs. Peyton aerred dain
ty refreshment after the gam, and
tha afternoon passed pleasantly.
Cut This Out
Pndersicned was or is a member of
k"1 o Knights of Pythia,
located in State of
Ilealth seek-
Signed -
Address..
To Encourage Club Work
To encourage the boy' and girls'
and mothers' and daughters' club
morsment the W. D. Boyee companr,
publishers of Hie Farming Business
in Chicago, has written to Miss Or re
GoeheL informing her that tha pub
lishers will give a 04,000 "Friendship
Home' to the grand championship
eastern, and western states.
In addition to this ten free scholar,
ships in each state to the agrieultn.
al college, solid gold efficiency bad?,
to the champion of every ennnt ;u
bo given.
fietdTiomChib
TVo bora of tha Good Time. Hub
will rettr lb leap year dane gir-
by tha giria of tha dob tomorrow
nijrtU at taa Adalpbi CInb.
A iL Peyto of Springfield, M,..,
i- in tha eity rUiCnr hi family, to,
remain about a Bjoatb,
I
r
