The guthk
Daily leadem
s:
I
VOLUME XLX
HOME
tU?TllRIK OKLAHOMA, I'L'IOAV. .IANTAKY js.
GETS 511 FIIIE
Starving, Mexicans Begging for Soup, a Result of Revolution.
TWO CENTS
XUMCEK 7
LETTER
C II. ItKCTOIt PAYS FINK:
JDWFA-SIIITII (ASK NKI
KM IX FF.DKHAL ( 01 III
HN GETS 2 YEARS
VM. IHU XKII WHO IHIM.I
WTKS SMOOTH SWIMM.K
SCIIKMK si:ti:m i:i
The end of the Jeffrey Smith
"Grandfather Case" which bai oceu
pled the attention of Jude Coltera
and a jary In fed real court for Va
past four days la In algM.
The Introduction of testimony ai
completed at four clock Thursday
evening.
C. G. dlorner, attorney for the de
fendant, began his address to t ie
Jury at four o'clock Thursday after
noon and consumed all of Friday
mo- ik. It Is likely the en'
Till go to the Jury before nlsht.
"Nothing In the naturo of a con
Bdraey ban bepn proven by tiie ti'tti
ntony," aald JmUe dlorner today In
addressing the Jury. "It has, on the
contrary, been clearly proven that
both Jeffreys and Smith, as well
all members of the Seward precinct
election board, consistently followed
the atate election law and permitted
all negroes and other to vote, who
demonstrated that they were quail
fed to do so under the stulate."
Stnt Oaunt Matter Through Mail.
Thursday afternoon, H. Hector.
Indicted by the federal grand Jury ci
charge Of sending letters containing
obscene matter through the nu'.h .
pleaded guilty and was fined $l!i in
payment of which jail sentence w:i
suspended.
Impersonated An Indian.
William Rrudnr, who Impersonate 1
an Indian and, thereby secured t' e
apportionment money of a trltesmn
under No. 8 of the Creek n:i
pleaded guilty and was sentenced 1V
Judge Cotteral to two years in the
federal penitentiary at Leavenworth
and Mi also assessed a fire of f'i.
the amount secured by the false n!g
nature. Judge Cotteral has exceed the
Juror not on the panel until Mon
day. The Prueltt-Le Master Case wi'.l be
on for trial February lfith.
:-5rwv.xv! A - ilz&yj--- - -
.. ajf ' " :: '. -'" Mini i mi 1 1 .
i Ah
11 A W in lai iiM , v -v
f " .IM,Mf
v V .....
II s
s
I
EYES IF LI HI
FORGER AT SES
IGAVALLA IIOl'J
BIQ JIM- HARAI3 HAS VVONi
riQHT rOR NATIONAL COMMIT, i
TtCMAN; M'QRAW, DdtGATC !
GEHTEfl OF GREEK
These photicr.ipli, reeviitly UKeli
in Mixlro, show to what condition
the penim have mine These Mel
i ..lis are wiiltlns lor frev mp furtilsh-
i tv (he soveriuin lit The lop pholo
trraph rhows a hue of Ituin. 'tln
for a soup klli h n lo ih ii, and the
i. , hers show the soup bi llig doled out
MOVE 10 KIEL
FIIWIV I. Ml ( Kilt
win: m: KAouwi of
iMiiAUiv; Aimisr
mm. i w :
i 7 1'" "
PORK BENEFITS
ic minirn nt
I.I IIIIIIII II III I I
111 UUIIII.U ULLI
i
Amos A Koi I, here rrom ilkU
Ihoma flty tmi;,v. -Th.. t pre.m
i s m low tht no work Is Mn ,,ne
Sjjl In ihe l.icistaiivw b:." he said.
, ' heliti I mini home "
I Sp.nUiiig tif iib rut loin I cummitte.
. until f.Kli! he Sitid;
j "Tim roiuiiillteiimn ree It closed.
Jim Harris will he rle t.'l
j Mr Mi Craw is Senator . ' rep
i. niailve In dklahoma. Is to
;er,.ly woikltii for a Weeks' deleg.
Hon and .tuts i,i W deleai. at
hiue lltrd Mifulre la also a candi
date for drli unto st lBie.
! I( ,la ,'",, I' lieralty stipHt'd that
! e ('iimr.'siimn Mi iiulie is .
VVivks' olnsiiii r III tlkliihotn
M.i. mw Is a wur.hjr ihbii and a
! Knd repiihii. mi. n i,,. u nut ih,t rulit
niiili.T lor iiuImiii.-iI t uti'iiiiUi'i-itiiin IIk
III llinke soihI ,1.1, nut.' at l.ir ,-.. I.,
the llHiloii.il t'olitviitltiti, hoc. "
Aked s in th,. Ihirimi candidacy,
thi.ium, III, J.,,1 ;s pi,,, ,,,,, hM ,.,1,1 -Miiip i , rrmi.ry ,,,
Ii l Ktudi run In .1 ,.m (, ihe d i k of a Ohio and know .Mr llurloii i rsoiul
rn 1 ' "i H'e m an yc.lcr l. I mu not ,m lomi-rsuut with the
L U ,duy mid haltril tin- liiKlit of a tlutl.llOO drsin a uf my i,,oiil,. in
t 'lib ago folio r Hi tefin.i hve no i hoii e tnit ti.r
1
I
IMM'I.( I S KHIN SI.OMkt
S II W: KASTFJtN
( i:im)m
( iih (.o, I'vitoiui ro.
u i; smooiii ;n;; in:-
IM 1 1 I s Ol II K WOltU
plains of mm
hom mis um (.nri;u:
ursi i n.ii i until in
III I l III II IN 1 1 (.III V
t " AssikUteil Vfrti
t'atalla. tlrecio, Ji,. ;h -What
NaiiMifkl was a fortnight ago, CavatU
lota b.'ioiiie today (ho baso of thrt
(ire.k aruili) In :,i..ru Macedonia,
ikon woitKKiis m him; iv
( aiu i it uo. HHi.li vi(.
io i llicit l i:siii.k
MEN WHO ROBBED CHICAGO
BANK ARRESTED; LOT HURL
ED THROUGH WINDOW
By Associated Prees.
(Ry At-aociuted Tress.)
Kansas City, Mo., Jan. 2. Terms
if several of the men found guilty at
ilidiuliapolis in December, 1912, of
onspiracy to transport explosives
illi gaily, will expire In the ni'ar fu
uip. (!eor?e Anderson of Cleveland,
Ohio, leftlhe I'nlted Slates ptt.iten.
:iary at Leavenworth today, having
omploted hia term of three years. He
a the first of the hum h lo I) releas
ed. Kdward Smythe of I'eoria, III.,
will have finished hi three-yeir sen
'nce In May; K. W. Hasey of Indian
spoils, will go out in July; P. J. Mor
rln of St. Irfiuis, will leave tho prison
in August, while V. K. lleddin of Mil
waukee, and (i. T. Ileum, Ml neapvli.
will be free In September.
Ilased on gtKd behavior tlni", ,er-
ibert S. Hot kin of Detroit. John T.
ISutler of Haffalo. J. K. Muna y, i.alt
Lake City; P. A. Cooley, New Orleans,
rvnflnn4 tin pis l""it'Ht I
Chicago, Jan. 2. Much of the f.f- and rrank C. Webb, all of wliom wi re
teen thousand dollar stolen from the j
Washington Park (National Hank waj j
recovered by the police today and !
among the thirteen pt:.s in custody ,
the authoritle believe they hae t'-C
five wh participated in the robbery !
Through a woman arrested with on
of the suspected n:en word came to j
the police of rooms which had been
recently rented In a West side apart j
ment Police forced tneir way into j
15 TO 1 III
Py Associated Press
Birmingham. Ala . Jan. is. The
the room occupied ly five men and ! .'efferson County Hank. cspitaM.ed ai
three women. While they were j half a million dollars, failed to open
breaking in the doar. a newiloy inMts doors" this morning.
the street saw a raste board ho fall ' The officers blame nnfounded rum-
at hi feet he kicked it acd ten and jr for the suspension. F.xdted
"twentj- doilar U'ls felt out. ; j i crowds hovered about the bank door..
. , in i all day. The officers aay every de-
, positor will be paid in full.
IH.M IOI;s K0( ( S0(.
nsi n:vi ki; m i
10 AITItOIMtlMIONS
(ikbihnmi City, nkla, Jan. L'h--
Tbe twelfth day or the :tudy special
t'sslnii. sau roll III the two limine, ot
jibe
transacted.
gone home for the nrrk rml,
I Tln house of representative, passed
finally tha bill amending the oil and
'iritM irrilNH Ill-mind kiall Ih Li, bfiil II,.,
meusure wa linmedlalely transmit' d
to the senate ai.d ordered printed
placed upon the calendar without a
committee reference
The material feature of the bill Is
that which relates to the distribution
of the tax an ruing from all oil and
va, production.
The atiti gambling bill lias reached
the governor, but be refuses lo alau It
until be receive an opinion from
Krei ling ou llm legullty of Ibe emerg
ency. The bouse passed III committee, of
the whole the bill to appropriate 12',
000 for furtto r use in the pending 2
cent railtoad passenger fare cases.
Representative Prltchett of Hnytbr.
St, Louis, Jan. L'S -iMrs II. K Hud- "M,h"'st. offered an amendment pro
son, 3d, a school teacher, her throat ! that no member of the leglsla
slashed and her fare cut and bruised. ! "ire "bould rerelvo any benefit direct
slavered to the homo of Dr. A. K. j "r '"'"''"' t tr(," appropriation, but
Walters, at S o'clock last night, and j " " v"''''1 (,,wn h a decisive vote. !
fell unconscious on the doorstep. Hj Tm' 1,111 proposing changes In Hi..
Physicians summoned from various ""'''' 's I" nslon law and making
1 lie lttmli.it Until and bis wife, both will I bate until I am belter s,.in.,u,i ;ll mllltarv
clad In white dm k, according lo the ., with the situation and have heard lilr"" must defend Iho lerrltory aha
ship', wlrele. (.(.i tator. wine stroll the piople express Ibrlr vIvim. I i ail j ' nliuuer. d front DulgarU two year
lug the deck whi n (he nnssnge came a. however, (hat sin... tln oh.nlng a" If it Is to b.i defcndeil.
f the a lift 1 1, si.,alnii 1 bavn In.uril : The niiatt of llm liort ,isi iluil.ru.l
from Cbbagti to aires: them They
will not be apprised of the fart that
ilier have Inen dlsitivcred unlll the
ship arrive, at the Itnrtmdm s Islands
The couple are Kdwln I Thacker
and bis wile. " i, ker la a parol, d
convli t who has In en cashier of HiB l.ave won hi, fight, idt-aii and fair
Cosdi M ii Co oil n lining firm for the
iti-t twn years Ity inram of a i lever !
with btg guns and their ammunition.
The atiH.p. nurruw slr't ar blin ked
nvfiiiTF iiii r HlTrlfil wiv
UMinillllL III L II j I LnUIILIlf uii mu
II UII II 1 IB U LIIU U UMUIIUIIj iinuj
OF m TERM THBOSI SLISNEfli
It'K.HlMtUrt hut llttU hUrlUH'HB
, I. .. ... .. u .. .
Mom of i bo members have " " "'"' " ' "'" lire sums
I II '.iiilln., , nn l'i,s reir I
mole r. publican, advotaie the Idxise.
velt lamltilaiy than any oiler caiili
bite iiouHoniil llm only thing I,1'" soldier,. Long Irallig of mulet
know for dead sure, In a polltli l j laden with the lin;-dunent of war,
way. Is ihut lllg Jim Harris snin, to "ml Ihe winding ay, betwm.n over
hang.ng Turklsli bousea, bound for
Drama, for Here, for llm llutgarlail
fiout icr, Kir all tier removal of
soldiers from SalonUI, liroec la Hot
WDETOMARPLOT
ASSAILANT KSCAI-KS; SKC
IIM IT( k AT SMK
VIM i: IN WI Kk
Nil SHU NT
HIS Till I-AKI IINI SS 101 It
IN I H.HI INI. UOOII
disarming, Nor, Judging from tho au
peaiamti of Cavalla, baa she any In
tention of Paving Dm rk' land she.
wrested from ihu llulgara In llm last
. war In any danger of falling Into llul.
(U As.Mlald I'ress.l , garlan bands again,
London, Jan. J8. Great ansnty is J ' U l easy In understand the Oreelc
tit hc rsuardtny ta sleamatiip 1 oeslre lo keep Cavallg; not that It la
Appsm, which I, ft Dakar for Plym- j really a (lrt k city, a every tireek
ouVi on January 1Mb with on hun-i1 ready lo assert so punslonalely.
drsd and ity sig psnysr,, and ona ; r"r '( Is far leas (Ireek vert thait
hundred thltly four In har trtw. Whtn j alonikl. Hut certainly It la not Hub
ship w.i, four day ou, all wlr j ''an. either, It l Turkish-Turkish.
r,s tmmunications ca,d. A bs I"'1 leaven of Halonlkl' admlltur
: patch from Hull lo Lloyds' says tha!"f Ispaiio i'nrtugMso Jewish IiIimmI
jtlnliah sttamar Tragantl report j m slight relic bf th Vvnillan
IV II I I II t 1 1 v '""D passed at ssa on January 1lh occupation of llm tulddltt agea. Hut
i a i isnoai wnn n name "Aooam"
f.mlJ on hs iirn.
CRIES 11 IN
T U K :.-
II
III II
parts of the sulmrh, attended her, and M "fPfJUHailon of I'iO.bOO lo pay the
it waif announced that her chance to P' nHI""B
live was alight. I,"r l,IH 1",U8,'
BULLTTIN.
(fly Assoelated Pres ) i
Washington, Jan. 28. President
Wilson returned this morning f rom j
New York and prepared to rst unlll
tli beginning of hi wtard trip
lonlgHt '
elit back to committee
with Instructions to
A short distance from Hip Walter ! ,,rl" '" " ""W b'"'
the appropriation. This action di-
iieiiig jui ibaf. It can readily bo
turned Into (ireek, llulgarlaii, Serbian
or what not In a few year tlmo, Th
Turkish .dement I, as always Influlte.
ly adaptahte
There Is no very positive reason Why
Cavalhi and lh JI'r. t It Serve
should (mi. be llratli, Kivery mkrr
of a Turkish cigarwtln holds between
Ibis finger, tha reaaon-from th
ire..k point of view why it ehould.
r'or 'ava!a a th p()fl ,,f (f
onn of the rlihesf tobaeco growing
tracts In the world. Not aa rich aa
home on Ilompart avenue Mrs. Hud
son's hat was found The sidewalk
and a telephone post were bloodstain
ed. Mrs. Hudson could not speak.
Wa on Way from Churc".
Mrs. Hudson, who haa been an in
structor at the Y. W. ('. A., waa on
her way home from the Haerty
Memorial Methodist Kpisiopal chur n
when attacked.
She was a widow aid resided at
the Walters' home.
Dr. Walters and Dr. J. Ii. Iluchanan
a neighbor, who examined the wounds
feats the plan to amend the law.
The bill appropriating Jl.'o for (',
A. 11. priming wa withdrawn. Pro
test against it were made by (J. A. It.
officials.
(Ity Associated press.) j
I.hIi IkIi, N C, Jn. 2s Warden t
! of lb- N'nr'h Carolina a'ate, pe, :
jtintlary. died of spoplesy today after!
New York. Jan -. - President Wll-: '"' ,lrt'1 "'lertiitct,ded the . le, tr u. ! ,'"rU'" of Cuba; but never-
son Thursday nUht opened his per- " '' " "- """ " niur- lh"'' 'M ' over a hundred tulL
... , lii.fi itnt, tit.,,. av...ik .. a t...
sor.al appeal to tho inuutry for sa-."'r ""i-s'n while unstrap ; 'cr per
tional defense, Hi, gave warning tli.- fr..n th- , lialr.
that plans for (he readjustment of
fiMntlnnsif on Pt, ITght)
549,487 TOTAL OF
PUCE BP W
BOSTON MAN APPOINTED BV
WILSON ASSOCIATE JUSTICE
SUPPMC COURT
the army must be formulated and car
ried out without delay and solemn!
declared he could not predict that the
iiitlook for the I'nlted State will be
r. brlxlit tomorrow as today.. Speak
ing at banquet of (he Hallway ilusi
r.e, association and the Notion Pic
ENGUSH PUENT
mi
London, Jan. 28. Pra.
mier Asqulth announced
today that th total Brit
lab casualties In all fields
up to Jan. ninth, reach
549,487, of which 24,122
are officer.
(By As-ocUtea Tres )
Washington, Ian, 2. President
V'llson today a;i;ointed lu!s I)
P.randejs, of !! ton, associate Justice
Fire, caused by s room becoming
ovcrheat-d from gas, following the
lo.
KING GEORGE 8AVS WAR WILL
; NOT END UNTIL ALLIES
' HAVE WON
i t
Ijiiidon. Jan. is - Walt' r Itunclman,
r. :,;. ;. of t!..' board of trad ill tl.e
1,1.,,-i. t.iilio'i, lia, iiiioriui'd parin-in-
m that in order to relieve th"
pr. sure ou shipping and make room
In vessel for additional Imports of
t(el'uHs, fuel, mu Jlnons and o'her
annum -more (ban fJQ.00O.0UO worth.
jwHh very pnmUivv means of cuitiva
. tion and shipment.
; for there are no railroad, out vt
jfuvalla to h plain of Philippl which,
from beii,g iho battlefield of (he army
cf Marc Anrhony, victorious over thn
, arml. a uf llrutus and C'assiu in B. C.
4.', lias le(m the gateway of tho
tobacco growing country of Mace,
donla. Thn only way to lirama is by
th- "I. Ion," an automobilo transform
ed Into a sag coach, whi h make
daily tr'pt when the ru-da permit.
And at lrot is lb nearest railway
connection. To ship hn toacca Out
(i-n!ft;e4 on Eight)
pressure yesterday, caused the esaentiala. restrii lions against impor-
iffHE WEATHER
TKE IVAR A YEIB ftEO TODAY
Jan. 28. 1915.
DEFENDS GERMAN-AMERICANS
Washington, Jan. 2S. Represent.-!-
OVERCOME BY HIS OWN
WORDS. 252.0CO OF THEM
Tendon, Jan. !S Sir Edward Car
son, attorney for the appellants In
the appeal agalnU the legitimacy of
French were defeated at Craonne.' tive rtennet of New York, Republican
and I n r Alsace 'i defended r.erman-Americans In the, Teddy Slingsby. son of Ueut Chas.
remen'ou struggle for the rar-itDe today, against chari! of !L SlingsUy.'was taken ill today, over-
path lao opened. Austro-German ad- unneutrallty. The large body of ecme by the physical effort of open
vanclng on SO- mile fronL tPem, he aid. ar eloyal to America In? tho case, in which he ha been
Turks. T, tucked Ru" and ask only that the administra- speaking for several day. It I fig.
"'siati'to AutrU-"OMry rioted be- tion' "Hn with all foreign roon-'ured that he ha spoken to far in the
causa mobilization order. 4 . trie ahall be the aame. ' lease 3S2.000 words.
(of the I'nlted 5"tat' Supreme Court total destruction of tho household tations of certain goods will be put
.tf' succeed the )ate Justice Imar. furniture in the M. Mki iiroperty at Into effwt by ihe government. !
j There were eleven men broached ' 108 Kast Harrison. The fir occur In an ad Ires, read at the proroga j
tcr t.le place, including former reel- r-a at ocuxg yeaieruay trterntmn. 'i'n oi parliament until reoruary j.,
dent TafL It Is said the president No one waa In the house when the King George epressd In these words j
v.as Interested in the claim put forth blate tarted. The building was oc- the determination of the entttite allie,
by Taffs friends, but wa overcome eupM by Mr. and Mrs. Ijwrnre to totiilnue ihe war until victory isi
ty Attorney (Jeaeral Gregory. ijelsma. The loss to the Jelsiuas will mhievedi I
Hrandei Is one of the leading legal reach several hundred dollara. "We shall rot lay down our armaj
lights of BosbiO. j When tbe gas pressure becam unt.l we nave vindlcste.j ine tau.-te
During the jat ten years be has'wtak yesl-.rday, the stove cxk was whiih carries with it the future of
ben earossi-.J with sociological i op-ned to the limit, later when the iviliia'iMi "
e.iiestlons. He ha been retained by, strong pressure fame the atove pre- Considerable fighting baa beet, tag
the government several time In trust aumably became very hot and as th- ir.g place along thi entire French
eases and his labor have been room in which It was lot a ted was fn-M. P,erlln assorts that between
crowned with success, llrandeis Is small the walla aoon Ignited causing :.im) and 600 yards of French trenchea
a warm friend of Rooaevelt. and a tho destruction of the building. stormed by the German In the
cenferre of Ida Tarbeli, whilom mag- Mr. Jelsma la a deputy in County vicinity of Neuviile, and that French
arine muckrakes. j Treasurer R, D. Stewart office. Th.' touater attacks were wl hout realt.
THE CHEIRFUL CHERUB
boys around ht ebuilding, each of then
la It for rent? Try TTi Leader jhla friend, gave JeUma a "thower" to-, Old paper for sate at The Leaoa
Want Column.
'day.
'aftice.
I ipoke to aomeorvi.'
t iirrsply ttred'me.
no ore thvt
I'd toop to be
uncivil to.
L
Ily Associated Pres
New Orleans, La, Jan. IS. Tonight,
cloudy; Saturday, unsettled; warmer,
