2i, du S H
- in i m M
3 JlX?JB 1IJSLIC WAISTS TQ KNOW PfffT' If agSJB
If ! I The public hnsn't time to seek you out. It's busy. It is the ((vfi 'YtwitW? TJSSfe l tl iVrnf .
f H LI merchant's duty to make the noise that nttrncts nttention. If he TOvJ" J fit ffl IPi&foilfSWIB9 II II III II BBBI
I API I doesn't some other noise Is Kolng to get the attention. The best 3P ylldffl 2 '&& it laV
I .Br IB way to beat the tomtom is by advertising. And the best way to DnimrAllv de-di idi i.am BBBTl
I W WM reach the buying public of Price and Carbon county is to use the P'UUI I lOHLLT, ntrU tSL.. UMIM. H
I f. Tzl I columns of The Sun. Entered tui Sccond-Clan Matter, Juno I, IDIS nt the Pontofflco nt Prkc. Utah.JJnder the Act of March 3. 17.
IjM"B 1 VOLUiME 1; NUMBER 35 " EVERY FRIDAY JANUARY 28, 1910 H
III plR GRADES
jPI KHOWINGSTRONG
(I Hxunti m ii:i:ii:uh AM.it.
I H (i: uiorr sTi:m.
I Kip nml Uimlt-. Holding Up Well
I jHhi Unit of tlic I'nU Tlint Iovvcr
I jB'rlcc ro lnltctl Ij'ikiii I'rom
B iKitijrrt V'iirlliiRt Ileal h tlio New
""'-"""'
& M B .npondence The Hun.
(I LaNSAH CITY, Mu Jan. 3 4.
I BJhirixlny wnn nn off day In the rnttlc
I Bflrkcl last week. Otherwlno tha
I BBrkrtn were ntendy to higher each
I BB butcher cattle nhowlng quite the
I BYm ntrcngth. The decline of Thu.
I B trmoe(l nil the Rain ntctni nnd
Hilo In a week, nnd took off half the
B BBnncr on liutchcr cattle. Tho ten
BJ BBa) 1'rldny won Mrongrr on nil
rt Kdn The ntipply today In thirteen
K Bunant1 hend, market Htendy to ten
I Ktn loner on hvef rattle of nil
W Bitrn nnd Moady to higher on ntock
$ and feeder. The bent ntccrn here
dHaj nold at $8.30, nnd hulk of the
Btrn now noil nt 17 SB to $8.00,
"' "term quotable up to 19.00 or n
BVHlt belter. Tho weak npot In the
T 1 ndn I Chicago with tweut)
I L JBr thounand cattle Ollurwlnc hup
I B H are not exconnlve, nnd the ten
Jl ilH'( townrd Mrenglh lately evident
B BJ AlJHtlic tattle mnrket would not he In
HL V ft yBriiptrd except for that Good
Bv Kty ron nell ti to 17 00, medium
k"L 1 fem $7,G0, choice $8.76. bull $6.75
BHuB'0 3& nnl x,' l"'" -00 '" 80
Bn or three train of Colorado cnttlo
Bi nBBlvrd todn, parti) )cnrllngn nnd
Biit of good breeding, the ) curling
H$7 00 to 17.10 nnd n drove of uhlte-
t i b) Bk' f''.ri. n IhoiiHntid poiindK u
. .... .VkBVKe nt 17 no. medium to common
i own itrwKr MccrH ,65 , 750 A,,ut nfl)
1H" "f louu mid MlnneiHitu mttle nr-
rlt llIUB''l nnd Hold nt frt.SO to $7 S6 for
it little et.rjK f,M.7,rH,,.k '"" n,"., ,hpl(''r"
. . . . t.O to $C CO. Htocktn ii ml fecdem
leu wim "irU5P, niMiut Hlendy liixl week, nfter
n nnd will fflKtnmtc openlnr, nnd liTiinentn were
i hlKhl) lfffclier IlKht, nwliiK to rrdutid Miippl).
n three ar(P(ri' ItcmiIIIiik. $.SB to $7.6
hut Mry raP",lj uro ""l miH'n different from n
no dowcii n ,,
rendition 7)Bil",(H nihntiied twenty to thirty
nt to tnk tBf' l" '"l,t "l(k' l,Pt "i1 tn' mnrkut
eit OuUlAB,rn '" flfl('" icntii hlRher today.
Hi toda) wiin $7. SB, pnld dy hoth
JIt lnoern nnd pncUrrx, mid hulk
"" " " "" wil1" rmiKcd from $7 20 to 7,60.
VVtSBf,',lur'' ""l ,1,SIV hii)liiK for Hhlp-
IBut to Unoleru klllem, nliout three
jHnllOiltlil KolllR to thill trade KilMt-
THn klllvrii fuvor the Iiokn prodiued In
jBniiHiiH l'll territory, hemline they
Hll out very wilUfautorll). Kxiept nt
HiknKo, total receipt mo moderiiti.
Hld the Hltuatlon lookN xtronif. Knn
JBh City' reielptN are runnhiK IlKhtir
Hnn otlur miirkitN, and with a more
Krled ileuiand hire, local prlcon nre
BB'eptloimll) Htronir, only ten teutw
nHhdir CIiIiiiko todn).
(BHIicip and liiiulm held up firm hint
Hih In the fine of deinnndii for lower
jBll from Iiiijith. The run Ih twelve
'iwhiiiiI todio with the market
IBiadv on cwcn mid MtroiiK on year
Hik mid weak to ten tcntH lower on
nilm YimrlliiKN reached $.). a
Bw hlKh flKure. and ewiw nolil freely
jB 7 20 to $7.3. tumliH $10 35 to
oftJ with iholie itlalli laeklnK III
- mlm I'tedhiK I u n I ih are wlllnif at
' to $11.75, the latter price imlil
lfc'lav I'riHipeitH here favor moiler-
.., W' n 'l'l nnd n HtroiiK mnrket
' F"WltT ti.VIIIHItS l.YT.
, . H iN COYOlli f.MI'.l(!
Bl1 Htewarl. nwrttun of the I'Uli
ffl "i I Kroner h' awHti latloil, him heen
nntlS (IB'1"11"!'' out tlnular leltem to Hheep-
liupj, OHri'ii over the Mate. liiiiiirliiK ahout
jH"iidltlotiM and avkhiK for reimltH in
pic B" """I'HlKi" nealimt cooteM He ri-
,:'lv' jMi'eHtH it'pllHH li J'ultrunr) 2d. the
jBiite of the ...nlVrome to he held with
,. !n V" I nlted ritntu luHilth Mtirvlie hu-
IC III JV'oti In Halt iMko City. Hlewart xaya
lint Hiu h rplle (ih have nlread heen
(V elved, i all for an Iiutihiho of the
Muiit on loyntitM, VMiolKrowern tax-
BK tliHiiMtlv... in uildltlon to the
Bmnt imld h the Htate. ho tlmt the
Hi'lnl hoiiiit ho flvo ilollarH for
BB"'1' "nlmRl tKttluir with the hide
BV The two uetivral uilopted methoilH
"i ti hlntj the vnrmliitM are poUnn-
'"'' l""1 truppliiK. In iiHlni; the flrnt
'$' Bji'thod, a tablet of Htryehnlne In hld-
i i IB1''" Hi n lltllii Imll of lard mixed with
r" r Mj """' u,,a" 'Iropped whero the coyote
,., '" "nd It. A the hall Ih po InrKer
Iwti Bh"n " "nu ,u"' "KB. the iiulmul
JH) h not Htop to ehew It. hut kuIhi It
HlMII
-J llcilV) SiiowhJii I'llilali.
Ji Tin InilioM of y(Wfel from Jlon-
..TBI' l "lornlnjj iitu Tuewlnj nlKht.
W 41 llriH ernnlH KxhrfcM of hint I'rhlay.
or n uood BLlh,,, "n "'I' "r the eight Inchen al-
mber, Tht BE iul1 "" ,,, Kro"ml wiUHed jonnlder-
at has tht Kl,'U 1"11'I'ipi amonif the owner of
o they art BJf !'" k'Mnn) of tlium who hne
Wo handle Wi"'el Tenr a public highway will
e you set- H'rll,K ,ll(,,n '" 11'1 f'''l It Ih thought
you upend .,,,m,t "ne-thlril of the Hheep will be
vd hn ami there nre done to n huu-
jHiiriil thoiiHand in the counts
, ( 8tep In tho cedar hllU vvinit of
BP,ru0 will pull through nil right
fj-kAa-fflB v l,eln ul'lo to blow go on the hriiHh
n that neitlon Whether the do hi
JKP t It U next to linpoHHlblw to bring
them In Blddownv & Ju)ltin will (eed
liorti to their IhtiIh In that Mtthm
(VnMdernbte hn linn been wild In
the nllej the pant few itn)n nnd tin re
In hn left Hlx dollnrn n ton neeinn to
be the price now, although It wild for
lit hint week. In the flntah llanln
the nnow rnngen In depth from nlx
teen Inchon to two feet.
riRtirro On Sherp nnd Wool.
The mutual report of the ntnte
board of nheep commlimlniiern for the
year ending November 20, 1915. was
submitted to Governor Spry lnt Wed
hernial by A. A. CnlllnU r, necretary of
the board.
The report nhown 2.000,000 nheeTln
the ntate, valued al $9,000,000, n grom
annual Incom of approximately $7,
000,000 nnd nn nnnuat loin from prid
atory nnlmnlM of $260,000.
Of the $16,500 appropriated bj the
leglnlnturo there U nn unexpended
balance of $8600. During the year
nhcepmen received $3,000,000 for
wool nnd $1,000,000 for mutton.
It U recommended that the bount
on coyoten be rained to thric dollarit
n head
Knuint Clt) MnrketH.
KANHAH CITY. Mo.. Jnn. 27.
Hogn Itccelptn, 8000J nlendy to low
er. Hulk, $7.26 to $7.86; heavy, $7.60
to $76; light, $7.20 to $7.10; plgn,
$0.25 to $8.76.
Cattle Itccelptn, 2000, Htendy.
l'rlmc fed ntccrn, $8,10 to $8.00;.
drrnned beef ntccrn, $,7& to $H.25;
Houtlurn ntccrn. $0.00 to $7 76; iowh,
$4.26 to $6.26; helfirn, $0.25 to $11.00;
ntockern, $C.O0 to $7 86.
Hheep Iteielptn, 1000, mnrkit
Mend) to higher Irfimbn, $10.00 to
$11.00, yenrllugn, $h,26 to $.2&,
wethern, $7 26 to $8 00, ewen, $fi.90 tj
$7.60
hlixkuicii Aftir the Itnugc.
The reient convention of the Na
tional Woolgrowern' nnnoclntlon re
nutted In awakening Hhcepmen to the
nccmnlt) of purilianlng rnngo, ac
cording to l. J. Wllln, Houthern Pa
cific hind ngrnt ill Halt lvke City.
Mill hiiih that he han sold In the hint
week five nectloiiH of land.
' Hhcepmen are finding that they
tmint own their rullKit If they are go
ing to .May In hiinliicnn," hiih Wllln.
"I have had n large number of In
qtilrleM from Moikmen who want
grilling hind mid nn noon iih the nnow
In gone ho they can me It, miIch will
be made raphll),"
,. Oiiuilin I.lvo hlmk,
OMAHA. Jan. 27. Hogn Iteielptn,
17,000; market higher. Heavy. $7.40
to $7 66; light, $7.30 to $7.60; plgn,
$8,011 to $7.00, hulk of mile, $7.10 to
$7 80
Cuttle Iteulptn, 8600; market
nlendy Native nteern, $8.2S to $8.75,
(own anil hclfcra, $6.36 to $7.00. went
eru hIiith, $i!.00 to $7.76; Texan ntccrn,
$6 80 to $R 80, ntoikern mid feedern,
$i.&0 to $7.80.
Hheep Iteielptn, 10,000; market
hlglnr. Yearling, $K..5 to $.2S,
WethelH. $7.00 to $8.00. billlbn. $10.00
to $10 66.
Alan) Sheep Ait Kllliil,
During the Hcanou 1915 on the for
em rmigcK of Utah. Nevada, Idaho and
Wyoming, fort) thounand four hun
dred nhiep. four hundred nlxty cattle
nnd fourtieu tinmen were killed b)
predatory nnlmalH. the (o)iitn being
the chief offender During the name
Heannu, forent ran kith killed lev en
hundred and nlxty-elghl coyotiH.
Kolir-fl'thn of the nluep lonncn wire
from thene niilmnln and one-half of
the entire number of nheep lont In the
entire dlntrlit wile reported from
flub
Wind Hag Mini time
Kiarelt) of bagn to enre for tin
wool of next year'H nhisirlng In iiutUI-'
putul h) Halt Iake Clt) wholinalel
men mid woolgrowcni throughout tlu I
eountr) are being uiged to las In a(
niippl) of iNign without dilav It U
uiiderMood that the nhortagi will be
canned 1 1) ordern plated In tin I i t
by the lirltlnh Kovernmint for lirgt ,
nmountH of material nm h in h umd
In the tniiuufiuture of bagn
nvspmim
(iohlcii Itulc llii)irx Leave ion lor
HaMiru Miirl.cln.
l.aM HiiiiiIid'h Bait IjiKi Trlbiin
Mitten that "n prlvute Kpeilal Pullman I
train will leave Halt Lake Clt) tod.i
iHirnfng to New York mid Kantern
market)) the line hundred mid twtnt)
five hlljirH or the J ( Ptlllie) i"in
pnn) Golden Utile Moron. Tho minual
lollferellie of the blDera ImH been
held at the Newhoune Hotel the pant
ten du)H l'ort)-one new Mure will
be udded to the ihaln operating In
neventeen ntnten The annual Iwn
iint wan held on Januar) 15th nt tho
iimimerclal club, and wan glvi b
the board of directum J. C. Pernio)
wan olw-ted prcHldentl K C. Hiimn. D.
H Mudd nnd K J Nelghborn, vice
prenldcntH. J I II. Herbert, necretary
nnd tranurer. George II Hiuhnell,
uiwlntunc necretnr) and irMinurer "
CUPHN'IKU Gins HIM..
The office force of the nlted
Staten Fuel compaii) at Halt Mke
Clt) waited on K I Carpenter. th
retiring renldent hint Monda) after-
noon. nnd presented him with a M-
tic Hhrlner diamond ring Carpenter
i wan recently Inlllntul Into the order
Neat npitchoH In prtnentatlini and
: atkuowledgeiiunt wire made
GREEK ORTHODOX
CHURCH FOR PRICE
JL
- ' . ' t x . '
Above In n phture of the Greek Or-,
thodox (hurch nt Price nn It will look
when completed Denlgnn for the'
hiilldlng have In en prepared by n Halt1
Uike Clt) nrchltect The ntruiture In.
to iont when flnlnhed nroiind ten
thounand dollnrn nnd In to be of fire,
proof material throughout Thej
trimming hrlik for the exterlol walln
will bo flnlnhtd In white planter The
main floor wilt be In oak The ihurih
will meiinure fort) b) nlxt) fed Itn
height from the floor to the ntx of
the dome will be llllrt) feet
One of the llliliiue fentlireH will li
the dome, the form of whlth In of the
ll)xantlnc type The main portion of
the roof will be covered with nnplult
nhlnglen The floor will be rnlmil.
In the hanemtnt there will le a II
hiury and n targe hull to h nl for
ii Hchool In the kcIiooI tin llngllnli
language will be taught, and pelnl
HttenN will be laid on the dllllen of the
illlzeli to bin m ptetl louiilr) The
ihuiili tuoper will neat approvlninti
I) five hundred pirnon.
The ihurih building will Ih on tin
lot Jitnt iter on tin ntreit to the cint
from the home of ex-Mn)or Cnrhm
Gundeinon, the acre nnd n quartet of
ground on vvhhh the church In to be
el cited having been punlmmd of
I Jim Gundetnttn I'llcc hunluewi men
nnd (Itlienn riieiill) have rained ilone
to n thounand dolhirn l HUlwrlptlon
, for the pun Imne of the Jot Work In
to Mart on the excavation an noon iih
the front In out of the ground early
npilng
I Hi) Han Htnen. chairman of the
Greik (ti thodox Church of Koiilhern
! t'tiih, in dlwiiHMiig Hie building of the
rhuivh Ht Price. )enterda) wild to The
Huir 'The Greekn of Price nnd of
Carbon nrtiul) nre very thankful to
.the giMMl iHiile of 1'rlie for their
'l('natl"iM nnd for other klndninwn
'r'lown The) wlnh to nnnnre the pub
, It.- gem rally "f their ntrntig Inti utlou
'to become iWllMble litltelin. AUo
progretMlve one In the hii'henl ncn'
of the word."
) Utter The Hun "III publlnh the
nnmen of Iih al pniple mid the
muountH lonlrlbutnl towaldn the pur
i banc of the giound lor the iluutli nt
Prbe
SALT LAKE CITY'S NEW
CHIEF OF POLICE FORCE
PIL
BBv - vtBfc.
bbbbbbbbW JH M&Htin&M
BBBBBBBBBs jPmtP -IBBT BBBBBBn
H jK 'kJ'KViv
H r5.t rBT BF IH
BBBBBBH L PB 9 H
BBBBbBBBBB BB hBBBB m aBBBBBi
K j'Vtn j9H
flHPfSB yBi9r
tlf BiSf
1H &w?;BF
Above Ih tin Intint photograph (
Cru W ('Dm ) Hhorin reientlj ,
named iih chief of polite of Halt I.ak
Clt) by Mayor W Moot I nrr Chief
HhoroH Ih well and muni fuvorabl) .
known to man) penwinH throuehvue
Knntern I'latl mid oiihm tally or Car
bon county He Ih feared It) the
cilmlnal element of Utah and Colo
rado and Ih expectta! an ill lef of pol Ri
al .lon to rhl the Capital i'lt of
thug, Hiiro thing men anil lonflUeine
workorx who have Infested that ill)
for monthH In ran Mam undtr tin
late Chlcr Grant
llltu t nil Chlif HhoreH him
inii ii t.e tint lot it I hi. GIoIh' Ks
preM kuinpaii) h Itn npt'tlal ngent
I'm lounly ha worked In the name
iipMtlt) with the Denver mid lllo
Oianile and Culoitiilo Midland rati
riHtdn He ban at hU tongiie'M tip the
int-oni of atiiHit voy irlnilual from
KatMUH Cliy (ton I'raniUco. At the
time i r tit Tiet coal Mrllie In Carbon
i uitt wtiii Mothet ' Jnnew and her
f. Il'.rni - r nklnar trould bMNil
I) Dt ' ShiiliH wan In thing of
maltcrn for a ltu.il ial tompuny In
the tr'tettl n . i I n pi I" u. n mid
i the to) nl mm Hi Its cnipl
APPERSON IS PLEASED I
WITH WHAT HE SAW
Coal Camps to tfie South of Price M
Working Most Satisfactorily H
Orders Ahead M
A II. Appertain, who niliH'ceiln It, U
Cnrpetitir iih vice prrnldent nnd gen
eral manager of the t'nltid Htaten
I'uel iiimpnn) with operating iiml
propirtlcn nl lllnck Hawk, Mohrland
nnd Hlnwnthn, rrtiirned to Halt like
I'll) lanl Wnl n rutin) evening nfter n
trip of nevernl da)H to the cnmpn to
the eoulh of I'rlie fnmlllnrlxlng hlm
nelf, nn It were, with loenl condlllonn.
tn a npcclal rnr nnd nctompnnlcd
by C. W. Vun Ijvw, prcnhlent of the
t'ultiil Htaten I'll el compnn). Apper
tain went to Kant Hiawatha h) way of
Price hint I'rlila) evening, nnd the
two offldaln had been there nlnce un
til Weilnentln), when the return trip
wnn innilo to V.lon lloth were well
pleaneij with lonillllonn at the cnmpn,
Al leant the) no exprenmd thrill
nelven. General Manngir Appertain, who
reiently renlgned from the Denver and
Hiu Ornntlc an nuperlntetident of the
I'tnh 1 1 tn. In not uufmnlllnr with loenl
cotldllloiiH of the coal hunlninn. About
nine )enrn ago nml prevloun ! going
with the Denver nml lllo Grande, ho
whh gi'iiiral mannger of the Hmitliern
Ctah and the Cnntle Valley rnllroadn
running out of Price.
Van Uiw thin week reliiriin to Hon
Ion, Mann, win re h innlntiilun nn of
fice iih vice prrnttletil nnd general
inmuiger of the I'nltitl Htaten Hinrlt
lug, Iteflnlng and Mining coiiipany,
owuern of the t'nlted Htaten I'uel tout
pan) nnd the I'tnh rallwn) mid other
InlerentH In Cnrhon nml Kmery conn
lien. The in live management of the
IimiiI propertlen In turned over to Ap
liernon I! U Cariienler, Wtio In nueceedid
It) Appemou with the United Htaten
I'uel lompany.'lefl Halt IJike City thin
wiek for the Ifant, a ml with Mm. Car
penter In to make a Kouth American
neu vti) age for the benefit of the bit
ter'n health. At the cnnulunlon of the
trli Mr. and Mm. Carpenter nre mont
llkel) to enlalilliili their home In lion
t in Mann,
W G Hharp, prcHhlonl of the Unl
td Htaten Hmelllug, lleflnlng and
Mining lompaii) with headiiiariem In
I ,o(-lnii Mann, h&n not been III good
lualtli for ii lonnlderahle time, mid It
ban been ntated from authoritative
i uriCH that Carpenter I quite likely
1 1 be given Hharp'H plain. Hharp mid
(' neuter have heen clonel) related
fnr man) yiam.
' In the meantime the three mine or
tht I nlted HtuteN I'uel coinimny miuth
1 1 r I'rl' e nre working Mead II) mid or
dim me iMinked ahead for nml for
ft vi ml weekn. Order with the hhIm
t iitmetit are miitl gratlf)lng The
i ilr iiid imit nhortage In now ovr-urn
RABIES CONFERENCE
sni ui on ticncial lllue 'lentallvcl) c
ccptn luvllnlloil.
Dr Itupeit Itlue, Hurgeou gHimral
if tht I'nltetl HtateM puhllv health nr-
Ik ban tentatively aeceplml the In
vitation of the Moniievlltn elilh to be
Itn guent at a llonuuvllle illnner dur
ing the health conference on mblen
and other tnplm whlth will open In
Halt l.ak City 1'ehruary -M Thin
word from the Hurgmm geuunil wan
I e el veil Taenia) lanl by Dr T II
lleatt). Mate health itiinmllnner.
through whom tho Invltatlonn to Dr.
lllue mid Major General W C Oor-
gan. HiirglMin of the Cnlted Htaten
nrm). were conveyed Major General
Gorgan regretfully declined, bei'titiHO
a long Mantling engagement for Feb
ruary 3d prta liuloil bin attending tho
i (inference
Hurgeon General lllue wild In bin
letter to Dr llontt) Hint he kiirel)
would be lu Utah tor the banquet nnd
nihil' oonfertiiie unleiw the liiarliiH
i en hiMlth nervlie appropriations nnj
1 other inatterH before conKrewilouitl
' oommlttvtM are culltd foi next week.
' If the) ure, he wildHhtH pteneinv In
i Wanhlnglon will he demanded, hut If
I not he will come to Halt I -a lie Clt)
lu the event that Dr lllue Ih unable
to come, the nnnlntnnt mirgcon gen- H
era I of the health nervier, Dr. J. XV. BBBfl
Kerr will conduit the health confer- BBBJ
elite H
Ittern that Health Commlnnloner H
llentty linn reielvrd Indicate n general H
Intrrcnt lu the Western Htaten In the B
conferctuii and that each wilt ho well H
rcprencnled nt the gnthrrlng. The H
Hcnnlon will be held In the brnlltlfill B
bonne of rrprent-ntntlvrn nt the new BJBBJ
BJBBJ
Henlden rnlden topltn to be dlncunn- H
ed will lie uniform mutilation or rail BBBJ
wn) mm mid the problem or Indigent BBBJ
tubercular nuffcrim, who come to BBJH
vvrntrrn cltlen from the Knnt nnd be H
come public ihnrgcH. H
RAILROADHELPS MINES
Will Unable Coal Pnalmrm to Under H
M'll BBBJ
The Union Paclfh n)nlem. In order BBBJ
to permit the coiil oprralora of Wyo- BBBJ
mlng to compile with Auntrallnu BBBJ
con In In the Pm If le North went, hnn BBBJ
had n number or rate expertn at work BBBJ
for more than two monthn figuring BBBJ
out new coal rat en to Hcntlle, Portland BBBJ
nml Oregon nnd Wanhlngton Inland BBBJ
The rat en now In effect enable the B
Wyoming opnratom to compctp with B
the Auntrnllan nnd lirltlnh Columbia BBBJ
coal for dnmcMlf purponi. but they H
lire not lu n ponltlon to compelo with BBBJ
thene main for nleumlng purpimrn, BBBJ
The Atlnlrallau t'timpanlcH can deliver BBBJ
ntemu coal In Heattlo and Portland nt BBBJ
$7.60 n ton for veaneln, while that In BJ
the price or W)omlug coal to the B
BBBJ
Under the proponid new rnten the BBBJ
W) inning mluen will be utile to lay BBBJ
down ooiil lu Pnulflo Count porta nt BBBJ
ncveii ilollnm a ton to the dcalem unit B
thin will retail at from nine to ten BBBJ
ilollnm u ton for domrntlo iimC Tho BBBJ
Auntrnllan lump coal for tloinintlo BBBJ
purpnnoH brlngn from ten to twelve BBBJ
dollara a BBBJ
NEWAUTOJMFW
Carl II. Maii'iiM'ii of l'rlti One of the H
liutirHiiatom. H
Tnela n Halt Uike Trlluimi hiin BB
'a new w hull wile automobile 'Mntrlh- BBBJ
iillng eomern whbl. will have head BBBJ
quartern lu Halt lnke Clt) mid nub- BBBJ
Millar) coinimnlen throiighuill Utah BBBJ
anil Idaho, wan Incorporated here yen- BBBJ
lertlay The name of the new uou- BBBJ
cern In the Utah-Idaho Motor torn. BBJH
imny, with a capital ntoik of $1(0,000, BBBJ
Half of thin capital hnn ulrcndr boon H
Into the trennur)
'The Iniorporntom comprise Home BBBJ
or the iniHit prominent biinwen nieii BJBfl
In the ntate nnd Intitule one governor BBJB
mid one former governor Nathan T BBJB
Porter nf thin tlty In president; l'r- BBJB
mer Governor l'rank It (UmmIIiik of BBJB
Idaho, view lireeltlent. C II HttfWnrl
mi retary; Charlea 8 llurton. trean- B
urer. Tluwe offlcem. with Gov. Wll
Ham Hpry, C It mnm of I'rovo, ltw
reme Green. U. T June nt Cidar B
City. D. o McKay or ogden. U It H
AnderHon or Mantl, Carl It Muriiineu B
or Pi he, Warren Paul and George A BBJB
Cola-or Halt likv Clt) mak up th BBJB
IneorWrutorM and illrector. BBJB
"The company will nell Chevrolet BBJB
Marmon and I'alge cnrti In Utah nnd BBJB
Idaho. HtotkhohlerH lu the oompuuv BBJB
will organize Hulmltllary eoinpaultm to BBJB
hold the ngeiiilea In the Manlier BBBJ
tow on. nil or whlrh will have mi In- BBBJ
tlmate relntlonnhlp wtli the twirent BBBJ
company here I'ormer Governor BBBJ
Gooding will have n comwiny lu BBJB
BBB
WILD DUCKS ri.OCKI.Mi M
U) Till: WAHM SPHI.VGS jgf w jB
Warm nprlnga lu weMom Juab .$Jr ' H
county have become the meeen 'OgL H
thoiiHanda or wild iIuckH that htffiS i
been wintering In that count), JSTpf !H
ilaren Krwl W Chamber ntnto fmTi H
and game iouimlnlouer CtnnmTn H
loner Chambera ban rHelvwl woul KB
from one or bin deputy waldenv, nav H
lug that the extremely cold w wither H
on the Jio'li lakea ban cuuntd the ml- H
gratioi, or the hlrdu to the warm H
.prlngn The flnh and game depiiit- H
mint will feul tho blrdn ,H
(BBBl
