OUR MOT T O BOOST AND HELP THE OTHER FELLOW.
HUM
VIER
JL 1 I V
Volume 2
Houston, Miss., .Jan. 2 8, 191G.
Number 36
o
o
!- THE MISSISSIPPI MAGAZINE -!
To print all the kind letters and press notices con
cerning our Mississippi Magazine would fill a whole page of
the paper, but space forbids right now. Nevertheless, we
THANK SINCERELY AND EARNESTLY all of you who
have so kindly approved our great ambition by letter,
press, phone and personally. All of them make tha editor
happy with that keep on keeping on aspiration to HELP
GOOD OLD MISSISSIPPI BOCOME THE BEST STATE IN
THE UNION.
The time has come to put MISSISSIPPI on the merry
go round of progress and we believe a good magazine with
pictures and articles boosting the industry, education and
every laudable activity of the state would instil the spirit
of cooperation in all the people. We b'elieve the subscrip
tion list would be large enough to print a large size mag
azine of the best kind and are sure that Ole Miss has
!i 1 1 - .1 1. 1. A II ,1 11.1 . .
writers iuny capaoie 10 ten me world mat our state is
really and truly a humming part of the great universe.
The world MUST know more about our state we the peo
ple of Mississippi must get more capital we must blot out
obnoxious laws and make new ones that will bring manu
facturing companies to our towns and cities W3 must de
velop millions of rich acres now sleeping by the wayside -WE
MUST GET TOGETHER. People outside jab our Mag
nolia state with the awful phrase "NOBODY HOME," a. d
NOW is the time to STOP IT. WILL YOU HELP MISSIS
SIPPI BYBOOSTING EVERY TIME YOU GET A CHANCE?
Make the chance in letters in general conversation in
letters to your county paper. MAKE MISSISSIPPI SMILE.
The general tone of the many letters about the maga
zine run like this: "If you decide to publish a iiter.iry
VV A Moore for
Clerk.
Circuit; Prof J J Davis for Circuit
Clerk.
i we are autnorized to announce
The Hummer is authorized by : Prof J J Davis as a candidate for
W A Moore to announce his candi-' Circuit Clerk.
dacy for the office of Circuit Clerk. Many voters will remember Mr
Mr Moore has lived at Thorn for i Dav's ho made the race for Re-
nulmnnv vpr. 9nH h. iiveH I presentative last year. Altho sick
, f , . . and could not canvass the county,
.... ... . I Mr jjavis polled very Oatterinjj
suaimiorwaru citizen. , i vote. He is a charter member of
In 1911 he sought the office of i the Farmers Union and was county
Supervisor of Beat 1. the first time Return for the Union in Webster
he had ever nsked for offio n th county for two year.
k....,i ,, .i Tu j I "c has been a teacher in the
MTO.U1U C!W1W'. i, c U,MU,' schools of the county foi the past
went into the second primary and 16 years and has always Civen sat-
he was defeated by
vote
a very small
inaction Dotn as a teacner ana as
a citizen. He says he is making
He now comes before the whole ! this " 011 hs own merits feeling
that ha a uaII nnllfi,.,! fill V,,n
f . IMUl 1 IK, JO "til VJUCUIUU IU 1111 IIHO
iccmis m j important onjce an(j assures the
uiis nil- rmin p if p prtpri hp will Ktnv tn
.!
county for Circuit Clerk
every way qualified for
portant oflice, and will strive to ! make them a flood Clerk. He ask
make Chickasaw a t!ood Clerk. I you to think his candidacy over
The Hummer commend Mr Moore J and remember him on Feb. 10th.
, fu ,.,,, t. a ..... We pleasure in presenting
i .... .u...,, nouu uui u.u, Mr Davis to the voters and feel
mere is a netter man in trie raeejsure, if elected would make them
than Will A Moore. Ian efficient Circuit Clerk.
idea of establishing a Mississippi Magazine.containing more
than a score of different departments of state interest,
each department to be under the charge of capable men
(and women) from over the state. It's a great idea and
Editor Reed is thoroughly capable of putting it into execu
tion. Here's to your success, brother.
From The Jones County Times, Laurel:
Rad Harrill Reed, the bed-ridden genius who publishes
The Houston Hummer, has anuounced his intentk n of
launching a "Mississippi Magazine" soon. Rad is a young
U. 'of M. student who had his spine injured by the fall of
magazine for Mississippi please put my name down as one the grandstand at a ball game in Jackson four years ago
of the first subscribers." "The Mississippi Magazine wj ; since which time he has been on a bed of affliction, howev
be a success no matter where it is published," "I wantler he has a bright mind and his pertinent paragraphs are
to be the FIRST subscriber." It is very gratifying to re-! gems of humor and pathos. We wish him success.
ceive an uiese goous woras oi approval anu now tlut tneFrom The Houston Times-Post
venture has been made a certainty we will make it GO j Our friendly newspaper rival, Rad Harrill Reed of The
for the benefit of all the Mississippi people. Hummer, announces his intention of publishing "The Mis-
Just where the Magazine will be published we cannot sissippi Magazine" and oulines the various features that
say. Several places are offering inducements that are wiu g0 t0 make such a publication. He gives a very at
above our expectation. But we will say this m ich, it will j t -active outline of the nrnnnwl nlan n,,ri .wa,..!.
p T" 1 1 r n ti-v tirr i.i i v 7
wish him well in his undertaking. Mr. Reed is a very fas
cinating writer, He has a wooderful vocabulary of choice
Sam L Baker for Circuit
Clerk j
We are authorized to announce
Sam L Baker for the office of Cir
cuit Clerk.
Mr Baker is an out-and-out dyed-in-wool
Chickasaw county boy.
He believes In Chickasaw and her
people, as he says, "the best people
on earth."
Beinji a farmer it naturally brings
him in close to$h with the farmers
and if elected would look after Uu-ir
interest at all times
Mr Baker comes before the peo
ple for Circuit Clerk feeling in
every way qualified for this import
ant office. He promises a spotless
registry and in the canvass make
the race without malice or running
down an opponent. He expects to
see as many of the voters as possi
ble before the election but to those
he don't see he asks their consider
tion of his candidacy.
be published in a PROGRESSIVE TOWN and the staff will
be composed of PROGRESSIVE and COMPETENT men
and women. Nothing will be printed except that which is
dyed in the wool MISSISSIPPI, for Mississippi and by Mis
sissippians. Mississippi Needs the dough -she must make
the rise as orderly and as nicely as the sun does in the
"yeast" she MUST cut out the loaf-ing profession or her
progressive biscuit is cook "Dun in Bradstreet" forever
and forever. Mississippi must quit casting the bread that
comes back sour she must make the staff of life bloom
the progressive flower of get busy-ness and achievement.
Will The Hummer fail to hum? NO NO, a thousand
times NO! Whatever happens The Hummer will CON
TINUE on and on. It is now a FIXTURE in the county
and the present three boys who run it will continue to run
it indefinitely. The Hummer is striving to help Chicka
saw build up along agricultural and educational lines for
we take great pleasure in HELPING our people the best
we can thru the columns of the paper. Words of commen
dation keep on coming to us about The Hummer and it all
goes to make us strive harder to please our happy and
large number of subscribers. BOOST and help the other
I'ellow is Our motto always.
Again, the magazine will be published. Business;
men of Mississippi assure us that it will be a SUCCESS
From The Kosciusko Herald:
Rad H. Reed, editor of The Houston Hummer wants to
establish a Mississippi Magazine. This state should sup-1
port a magazine of this boosting kind and Mr. Reed is pe-:
mliarly fitted to steer such a publication. He is very!
talented young man, and being a "shut-in" should receive !
the hearty support and cooperation of both press and pub-1
iic in his laudable ambition.
From The Yazoo Sentinel:
Mr. Rad Harrill Reed, the brilliant young editor of
. The Houston Hummer is advocating a Mississippi Maga-.
and points out what a potent influence it would be for the
tiirther development of all the interests of the state. It is
hoped that the suggestion will meet wit lr substantial en
couragement, and that Mr. Reed, one of the most brilliant
young editors inlhe state, will head the enterprise.
From The Eupora Progress-Warden:
Rad Harrill Reed, the talented and versatile editor of
The Hummer, published at Houston, has conceived the
English which could be utilized to great advantage in
magazine work.
From The Pontotoc Sentinel:
The announcemet that Rad H Reed of The Houston
Hummer is soon to launch a Mississippi Magazine, is re
ceived by the press of the State with genuine pleasure.
There is no doubt as to the need of a publication of this
kind, and no man in the State is better equipped for the
work than our youug friend Rad Reed.
Letter from New Orleans Times-Picayune Staff Member:
Please send picture and outline of your life and pro
posed magazine. We can help you, for you certainly must
be a "dead game sport" and we admire your ambition, etc,
etc.
-ATTENTION-
Your attention is called to the fact
that we have for the present stopped
giving away Profit Sharing Certificates.
Certificates that you have are good for
premiums or will be redeemed at our
store at 5 per cent, on any Cash Pur
chase of any article except school
books.
E. P. Wilson & Company
ADVERTISE MISSISSIPPI
"The example of California in advertising her resources
and products to the world by a systematic and ingeniously
designed campaign of publicity, is worthy of emulation by
any state in the Union and Mississippi in particular. In
nothing has Mississippi been more backward than in giving
proper publicity to our splendid natural resources and in
comparable products.
"Immence sums annually have been lost to our use
because of the fact that our products have not been ad
vantageously displayed in the show window of popular ap
proval and called to the attention of millions of consumers
thruout the country. The same applies to the vast areas
of vacant lands thruout the state that are producing prac
tically nothing for the owner and only a pittance of re
venue for the state and counties.
"The opportunity for doing most effective work along
the best lines of promotion and publicity, and an oppor
tunity that comes but once in a century lies in the cele
bration of our hundredth anniversary at Gulfport as auth
orized by the legislature of 1912. This can easily be made
the crowning event of the century and the beginning of a
hundred years of great prosperity.
"The right setting of the stage with our magnificent
resources and splendid products as the actors thereon,
will attract attention from all of the North American con
tinent and portions of others for a time and they cannot
iil to be impressed with it's matchless advantages. These
people may afford a market for our surplus products if right
information is supplied them.
"New Orleans is the recognised winter capital of Am
erica and hundreds of thousands of visitors from the colder
sections of the country swarm it's streets during the winter
months. Mobile is second only to New Orleans in this re
spect. Both of these can be liberally drawn upon for pat
ronage, and should the event be made permanent as is con
templated by some, would be an unfailing source from
which to draw people from other sections to Mississippi.
"In all of the vast coast country of the United States,
there is no more favored section than the forty or fifty
miles of beautiful sand beach that belongs to Mississippi.
If this was developed and advertised one-half so well as has
been done in other places where a most liberal patronage
has been created, it would easily surpass them.
"Mississippi has too long waited for something to turn
Up with little in the way of tangible results. If we are to
enjoy a portion of the prosperity that is coming to those
who are going after it in the right way, we must profit by
their example and do something to aid in getting the re
sults." H. E. Blakeslee, Commissioner.
Sure Way To Kill Roaches
Almost every story and many homes are infested with
roaches and knowing that they eat up goods worth hun
dreds of dollars we gladly reprint the following from The
Bardstown Standard:
The janitor of a big building in Bardstown has con
trived a successful way to exterminate roaches. The
building was so infested something had to be done quickly
and the janitor immediately procured a number of newly
emptied tomato cans with the paper wrapping still attach
ed to them. Into ea?h can he put a small amount of
molasses, being careful not to let any touch the inner
sides of the cans. Being placed in the infested corners the
iasects were quickly attracted by the smell of the molas
ses. Climbing up the paper label they either "slid" down
inside or fell "head on colleeshum." After a day or two
the janitor had captured one gallon of the squirming pests
and he believes in a few more days he will comepletely
exterminate every roach in the building.
HELP HOUSTON GET THE STATE CHARITY HOSPIT
AL. BUSINESS MEN GET TOGETHER. DON'T LET
SOME OTHER TOWN BEAT US TO IT. IT WILL BRING
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS TO HOUSTON. CALL A
MEETING AND SEND DELEGATES TO PUT OUR
CLAIMS BEFORE THE LEGISLATURE.
