FlffTON COUNTY TRIBUN
VOL XXXII NO 42
WAUSEON, OHIO, FRIDAY JANUARY 28 1916
$1.50 PER YEAR
L
at
Fulton County Extension School
Wauseon February 7th to 11th
Separate Courses tn Agriculture and
Home Economic- Instructors from
College of Agriculture O. S.
U.
LOSES HIS LEE
Michael McCoy of Metamora Suffers
Amputation of Right Leg at. Wau
seon Hospital Result of Freezing
hia Foot During Recent Cold
Weather.
On Monday February 7th at nine
o'clock a. m. the Fulton County Agri
cultural Extension School for 1916
will begin its sessions. The Agricul
tural Course for men will be given
in the court room and the Home Ec
onomics Course for women, will be
given in the parlors of the Methodist
church. The school will continue until
Friday atternoon with sessions each
day from nine to eleven thirty a. m. and
one to three p. m. I he instructors
are Messers. M. A. Bachtell on "Soil
Fertility" and L. B. Rnilev nn "nuiru.
ing." The list of topics in the order
in which they will be presented are
an follows: Monday, Plant Food,
Available and ' Unavailable, Dairy
Standards, Legumes and Soil Fertil
ity, Silos and Silage; Tuesday, Soil
MoiRture, Feeding the Dairy Cow,
Alfalfa, Dairy Management; Wednes
day, Corn. Bacteria in Milk, Manure.
Testing Milk; Thursday, Commercial
Fertilizers, Dairy Barns, Croo Rota
tion, Breeding Dairy Cattle; Friday,
Lime and Limestone, Selection of
Dairy Cattle, Bringing Water into
the Farm Home, Planning for Fertili
ty Maintenance.
The Instructors In the Home Ec
onomics Course will be Miss Nan
Sharpies and Miss Hulda Horst, the
topics presented will be: Monday;
Home Economics, Water As a Carrier
of Flavor. Selection of Foods. Milk.
Tuesday; Farm Meats and Their Pre
paration, Eegs, Dress. Wednesday
Bread and Some Factors Influencing
jr. cereals and lheir Combinations.
Cure of House From Sanitary Stand
point. Thursday; Preparation of
Vegetables, Salads, Food Standards
Friday; House Furnishings, Balanced
Rations for the Family, Household
Management.
Tuesday evening there will be an
open meeting at the court house, free
to all a varied program will be given
and an address by some representa
tive of the Agricultural College. The
season tickets for the agricultural
course are 60c each, admission for
one day 25c. Season tickets for the
Home Economics) .Course 25c each,
daily admission 15c.
WAUSEON PAYS DELTA.
A banquet was given in the dinine
rooms of the Christian church last
Thursday night. It was in honor of
the "Loyal Sons and Daughters" a
Bible School class of the Delta Chris
tian church. This class is taught by
the pastor Rev. Kellogg. The class
giving the banquet was "The Loyal
Bereans" of the Wauseon Christian
church Bible School. This class is
composed entirely of young married
people and is taught by Mrs. John
Hatt.
ine two classes had agreed to a I Michael Mrrnv oo-ed chnnt m.no
i.uii8 mree miming ior tneir ol Metamora was brought to the Wau-
oewermeni. Attendance. Bibles, col-1 oenn hnnitil lnaf Mnntm mnrmni
lection, on time and staying for church and Monday afternoon the Doctors
u . ue couniea in we points. Murbach of Archbold amputated his
iu i.uiii.cBw cnueu wim me last sun- right leg above the knee.
iaj ireuiucr. iw was B Close n&-I i na lmnntJltiim mm marie nwps.
je irom start to finish and the result I mn hv ra nt tronm-ono -orhinV,
n doubt Until the Official COUnt Of the follow th freezintr f MlnCnn'a rich
1 1 J T1... J 1L. T 1 . , I - . .. & - J
" y "J ueita class loot during the recent cold weather.
rolled up an attendance of 70 while Mr. McCov who live
Wauseon had 64. For the entire time himself in Metamora returned from
ueita was winner by 49 points and Toledo supposedly intoxicated, he
nereiore entitled to the banauet to went to his homo nd mnt imme.
be served by the defeated side. diatelv to bed hut in Rnmfl vrav failed
Thursday night was soft and wet I to cover hd hia ris-ht foot which mi
but 48 of the Delta class came down, slightly frozen when he was found
ana witn tne nome folks made more I in his. house, gangrene followed and
man iuu young people seated at the progressed so rapidly that his life
tables. Speeches and music made I was endangered and amniitatinn of
bright the evening. Arthur Florv the limb was found necessary in or-
was loasi master, tie made an ad- der to save his life.
Jress of welcome and told good stories Superintendent Egnew went over
in introducing the speakers. The to Metamora Monday and brought Mr.
oresident, ex-president, secertarv and McCoy accomnanied hv Mavnr Morse
. i Tr-n - ... a .. - 1 . i - "
leauiier iveiiogg oi tne Delta class gave ana Mr. Viers of Metamora to Wau
nor laiKs. ji tne wauseon class. I aeon with him. Mr. Mc(Joy is with
the teacher Mrs. Hatt, Milton Griffin, out any living relatives, in former
iiauseii uray ana pastor Key. Whar-lyaara ne was Known as one or the
ton responded. Mrs. Mahel 7nnlr snd I most efficient stone 'masons in the
Mrs. Frank McConkey gave excellent I community; he was an ex-soldier of
recitations, iwo violin solos by Gor-the civil war and for many years he
ion lumDun were much enjoyed. Mrs.!11118 uvel alone in Metamora.
Fermison rendered
Mr. and Mrs. Hadsell p.. . i CANDIDATE FOR SHERIFF,
duet. I Mr. W. S. Boone has authorized the
Both classes felt it was an I announcement of his name as a can
enjoyable and profitable They ate r nomlnation a snerin on
their way thru the supper from fried t?,6 RePblcan ticket at the Primary
micvbiuii August eigmn, isiQ. . ivir.
Boone was a candidate for the nomin
ation in 1912 and was a close sec.
ond to Mr. McQuillin, he gave his
just as full and happy.
chicken to apple pie and ice cream with
good appetites. It was the last car
before midnight that carried the Del
ta neonle homeward full on1
1 u mi., it, l Blinnnrt trt the Bupnesafnl Remihlicnn
r.iny imupv. ine wauseon class was ""s " i :f ,
uuiiitiicQ ivir. mcvguiuui nt Lilts, elec
tion in November 1912 and again in
1914. For the past three years he
position as Deputy
Sheriff to the satisfaction of all con
cerned and with credit to himself. Mr.
Boone seems to be the logical succes
sor of Sheriff McQuillin and entitled
by his own merits to the careful con
sideration of the' Republicans of the
county,
BRTAN POULTRY
SHOW WINNERS
The Bryan Poultry Show held last
week from Wednesday to Saturday
inclusive is reported as a very good
now. lhere were 350 birds exhibit
d: F. L. Piatt of S wanton was the
judge of the show and among the
winners were E. L. Barrett who won
first cock, first and fifth cockerel,
fourth and fifth pullet in the Rose
Combed R. I. Reds Class. Harry Mer
rill who won first and second hen and
fourth cockerel in this same class. In
the S. C. Mottled Ancona class, Arthur
Flory took the prizes for first and
fourth cockerel, first pullet, first pen
and tied for highest scoring pullet in
the show. L. D. Burgoon took second
cockerel, third pullet and second pen
in this class.
E. W. Murphy of Pettisville who is
forging to the front as a Fulton coun
ty poultryman, exhibited Barred Ply
mouth Rocks making one of the best
exhibits in the show. He won 1st
cock, 1st, 2nd and 4th cockerels, 2nd,
Srd. and 6th hens and 6th pullet, also
took the sweeostakes for the best ten
birds in the show.
I will sell buggies at a great re
duction for the next SO days.
S7-K CHAS F. STOTZER,
FIRST- AID
To Ladies
Exclusive
Dry Goods
No Bonds of Tradition Tie
the Spencer-Edgar-Vollmer
Co. to Old Time Methods
This a Season
Preparedness
o
PRACTICAL INSTITUTE
i
Clinton Township Farmers Educational Institute Held
in Court Room at Wauseon Last Week, Proved
Intensely Interesting and Practical
Although on- account of the preva
lence of grip the attendance at the
session of the Clinton township Farm
ers Educational Institute was far
from being as large as the character
of the program deserved, yet the in
stitute proved to be of great practical
value to those who did attend and
through them to the community.
Friday morning and afternoon ses
sions were devoted to the practical
problems of farming. Mr. Charles
Allen of Toledo presented the gospel
of alfalfa on every farm in which
he certainly believes with all his
heart and also the question of "Get
ting The Best out of Fulton County"
a matter in which he is enthusiastic
ally interested.
Jay Burr gave a very practical ad
dress on "Dairy Cattle and Their
Management" and the fact that Mr.
Burr's knowledge of his subject has
been obtained by years of practical ex
perience made his address doubly in
teresting and valuable. Prof. Stilson
State Manager of the Ancient Order
of Gleaners struck a new note for
Farmer's Institute discussions with
his presentation of "The Business End
of Farming."
Mr. Stilson's real subject seems to
be the awakening and developing of
the business sense of the Farmer; to
get him to. use some of his mental
ability in marketing his crops instead
of devoting all of it to raising them;
to look after his social industrial and
political interests as well as the in
terests of his land and live stock. In
Friday evening's talk Mr. Stilson gave
expression to the following maxim:
"It is not what we eat but what we
WATCHFUL WAITINfi.
Where are we going and whither Mi?1 U?d"he
are we drifting 7
Our Hag has been insulted both in
Mexico aad in Europe.
Uur citizens murdered on the hieh
seas and tortured to death in the
Southern Anarchy. No one has salut
ed the nag and still we are watch
luiiy waiting. Like the little General I t rviu.'. rMa
of olden times we shipped our Troops Keep child dry, clothe comfortable,
. ,""" . wn anippea mem i avoid exposure and give Dr. Bell's
DacK again. And still we are watch- Pine-Tar-Honey. It is pleasant, sooth
ing and waiting. I in(t antiseptic, raises phlegm and re
A Uerman Embassador furnished durea inflammation. The first dose
money to his Attache, Von Papen who gives relief, continued treatment with
in turn hired the destruction of lives proper care wilL avoid serious illness
and property within the borders of or a long cold. Don't delay treatment,
our own country; some one must be Don't let your child suffer. Get a
sacrificed and Von Papen waa sent bottle to-day. Insist on Dr. Bell's
Why not the Ambassador T
Our mails have been held ud bv the
English and the only protest has been
a note telling them it was naughty to
do such a thing.
Cargoes destined for Neutral Porta
have been seized held and delayed
and no protest made at alL
T I. - , i . . , . . .
maun aiier insult nas been added
to injury all because the Administra
tion has no back bone.
An Administration that is trvinc
to fiddle a tune which will be pleas
ing to both sides of the most gigan
tic Btruggle ever waged for the "mas
tery or the world.
Through our weak, silly, dilly dal.
ly, sissy, Micawber Policy we have lost
our standing as a world power and
resemble a great big overerown school
boy teased and taunted by all the lit
tle fellows unable to take his own
part, and would rather put his finger
in nis moutn and cry than stand up
for his rights among bovs of men.
You are asking now Mr. President
that we spend millions of dollars in
Military Preparation. What is the
object and what will be the use. You
don't use the soldiers that we already
nave, wny raise a larger army.
Wouldn't the first and best steD in
National Prepardness be to secure a
new backbone for the administration?
Sometimes things happen upon which
men must act we can not always set
and wait and hope of the future.
DAVIS B. JOHNSON.
Pine-Tar-Honey. 25c at Druggists.
If your harness needs oiling bring
it in now and we will take care or it.
37-6 CHAS F. STOTZER.
Ta quickly cool burns and take the
fire out use Hanford's Balsam.
State Board of Health and an instruc
tor in the Medical College of Ohio
State University gave an address
Friday evening, the precepts of which
if applied in the schools on the farms
and in the homes of this county would
mean the saving of thousands of dol
lars and the decrease of the death
rate with corresponding increase in
health happiness and prosperity. Dr.
Boudreau dealt in dry facts but he
made thejn intensely interesting. He
spoke of the American achievement
in constructing the Panama Canal
where the French nation so signally
failed, as due to the discovery and
elimination of the cause of yellow
fever in the mosquito. His references
to the work of Pasteur and Koch in
the field of bacteriology were so
plain that school children could un
derstand. Startling were the an
nouncements substantiated by statis
tics that Bovine tuberculosis is trans
mitted through milk to human beings
and that there are hundreds of chil
dren in the .state who are crippled for
life or condemned to lives of invalid
ism in consequence of this disease be
ing permitted to infect the dairy cat
tle. There is more typhoid fever in
the rural, districts of Ohio than in
the cities; 1200 deaths per year from
this disease in Ohio, and here milk
figures prominently as a carrier of
this disease. One case in an Ohio
town was the source of 133 cases and
the medium of transmission was milk.
Next to milk the fly figures as a
spreader of this disease, hence the
need of cleaning up all breeding
places for flies as well as taking care
digest that keeps up our vitality and "X "UPP 5d
strength; it is not what we read but!. ?
uubiio ui xiiuci iv.au 111 me
Sanish American War was due to ty
phoid fever; at present there is prac-
wnat we remember that makes us
wise and it is not the volume of crops
that the farmer raises but the prices
he gets for them that makes him pro
sperous," Mr. Stilson referred to
the courts of the present not as dis
pensers of justice but as interpreters
of the law. The laws of this coun
try are the will of the sovereign peo
ple and the farmers form a large part
of that "sovereign people" they have
neglected to use their voice and in
fluence in making the laws and they
must bear the responsible for inade
quate and inequitable laws. He re
ferred at some length to the law which
makes the boundary of farm lands
come to the middle of the public high
way; an aggregate of 5184 acres of
land in Fulton county upon which the
owners pay taxes must maintain and
keep open for the public without get
ting any use from whatever. The
Farmers said Mr. Stilson are "long
suffering and mighty patient" but
"they neglect to go and look after
their own business." - '
Dr. S. C. Boudreau of the Ohio
tically no typhoid among the soldiers
of the United States Army for the
reason that the men have been immun
ized by vacination. The State of
Ohio furnishes to all physicians in the
state the typhoid vacine and any one
who desires may be rendered immune
to this deadly disease. Diptheria
caims nuu victims every year in
Ohio and Dr. Boudreau declared that
anti toxin will cusp every case, if given
as soon as the symptoms of the dis
ease make their appearance. Scarlet
fever, whooping cough, measles and
infantile paralysis were each discuss
ed by Dr. Boudreau and we regret that
we can not give more space to his
statements and advice as touching this
subject of so vital importance to the
community. When one stops to con
sider that with a birth rate of 100,
000 per annum in Ohio there is a mor
tality list of 12000 babies the Doc
tor's appeal for the co-operation of
(Continued on page Eight)
I
A Wauseon Boy Who Stays at Home
And Builds' Up a Substantial Poul
try Business Work That Brings
Health, Pleasure and Profit A Cap
tain of Industry.
The home newspaper people are al
ways glad to record the advances and
success of the boys and girls who
leave town and are making good in
other places, but it is no less a pleas
ure to the home town papers to be
able to chronicle the successes ol
those who stay, at home and make
good.
This is a storv msmred bv a visit
to the scene or, as it might more pro
perly be called, the plant, where for the
past three years a' Wauseon boy has
oeen patiently building up an mdusr
cry of his own which, while not large
in volume of business done, is never-
cheless a success and well worthy of
note.
In 1912 Harry Weber was compell,
ed on account of failing health to get
out into the open, and live as much
HARRY WEBER
as possible out of doors. Instead of
traveling North or South or West,
rlarry staid at home determined to
give the home climate a trial in his
fight for health, but he could not
spend his time in idleness and so
-urned his attention to something
that he might do to occupy his time
and attention.
There was no capitol to invest but
with such financial aid as his parents
could give him Harry launched out
in the poultry business and also the
dairy business to the extent of one
cow that while figuring rather prom
inently m the plant at nrst is at pres
ent overshadowed by. the feathered
beauties who form the more import
ant department.
The first year was one of beginnings
3
a o
We are not waiting for pros
perity to be thrust upon us. We
are meeting it half way, and are
preparing to handle the b'.g
business we know will come this
1916. Already we have booked
exceptional orders so it will be
possible for you to secure your
DRESS MATERIALS, READY-TO-WEAR
APPAREL and other
ACCESSORIES EARLY.
In harmony with this situation
make your Preparations now and
SHOP EARLY.
More Than Ordinary
Reductions On
Winter Apparel
Suits and Coats
WASH SILKS
Some timely arrivals of Fancy
Stripe Wash Silks 36 inches
wide for those daintiest of
Waists
Selling at $1.00 the yd.
QUALITY FIRST
ALWAYS
The dominating Factor that
decides finally the Belling Value
of our merchandise is Quality.
For Rheumatism.
As soon as an attack of Rheumatism I
begins apply Sloan's Liniment Don't I
waste time and suffer unnecessary!
agony, a rew drops or Sloan's imm
inent on the affected parts is all youl
ofsea. ine pain goes at once.
A grateful sufferer writes: "I wasl
suffering for three weeks with Chronic
Rheumatism and Stiff Neck, although I
I tried many medicines, they failed, I
ana i was under the care of a doctor.
Fortunately I heard of Sloan's Lini
ment and after using it three or four I
days am up and well. 1 am employ
ed at the biggest department store in I
S. F. where they employ from six to I
eight hundred hands, and they surely I
will hear all about Sloan's Liniment.
H. B. Smith, San Francisco, Cal. I
Jan. 1915. At all Druggists.
M0NTPELIER VISITORS.
Half a dozen Montpelier business!
men representing the armers &
Merchants Bank of that city visited
tne Wauseon Banks Monday and ex
pressed themselves as delighted with!
the beautiful and convenient bank-1
ing rooms of our town. The Farm-1
ers & Merchants Bank of Montpelier I
is six years old and they have pros
pered and grown until they have
reached the point where they can
hays a building of their own, they
expect to erect a bank building next
Spring, having occupied rented quar-l
ters from their organization up tol
the present time.
SOME FASHION HINTS.
The womenfolks tell us that late I
winter is a trying time when it comes I
to the selection of good-looking
clothes. So our friend, Mrs. Bottom
ley, who writes the fashion articles
for The Tribune, tells our feminine
readers this week about a very attrac-1
tive sport coat of white chinchilla, I
and whispers the "last words in win
ter hats."
You Can Now Get the Big Comfortable
35 Horsepower Overland for
$695 1
En bloc 35 horsepower motor
Electric starting and lighting system
Electric control buttons on steering column
four inch tires
Roadster $675
. o. b.
Demountable rims ; with one extra
106-inch wheelbase
Deep divan upholstery
One-man top; top cover
With unerring judgment of value
With a rush that swallowed up a
.record production in jig time
The public took more than 50,000 of
the $750 Overlands in six months.
In six months we've absorbed all the
(overhead; absorbed all the develop
ment expense; realized on all the ex
perimental cost that is usually spread
over a year.
We covered our material require
ments at before-the-war prices saved
three and a half million dollars on
aluminum and another million on
eteel.
We have Increased our production
capacity of 300 cars per day last June
tQ 1 000 cars per day.
Model 83 B
So again we have broken all records.
Again we have planned and bought
material for a bigger production
program.
And again we are setting a new and
supreme standard of value
You can now buy the big, roomy,
comfortable, thirty-five horsepower
Overland for $695.
Here is the value which has clearly
dominated the automobile market for
the last six months now made even
more clearly dominant.
Here is the car with a performance
record never even approached by any
car of its size ever built fifty thousand
in every day service.
And though the price Is reduced the
car is improved.
It has an up-to-the-minute power
plant, en bloc type, developing full
thirty-five horsepower. It has abun
' dant power and speed and an exception
ally quick get-away.
The value is pre-eminent un
approached. We guarantee that the price for this
model will never be lower.
But this price reduction is made in
the face of a rising material market
we cannot guarantee that it will not be
higher.
See the Overland dealer now an
ticipate your requirement if need be
but make sure of your delivery now.
R. Gottschalk, Agent, Wauseon, Ohio
The Willys-Overland Company, Toledo, Ohio
tU.iU.9.V
Dacked up By the
of the Square
Sign
Wauseon's Only
Exclusive Dry Goods Store
ENTERTAINMENT AT LYONS.
Friday evening January 28th a I
benefit entertainment under the su
pervision of Mrs. A. H. Pratt of To-1
ledo will be given in the Universalist
church of Lyons: featuring Miss Ruth I
Hickok of Toledo in her beautiful Musi
cal rhythms and introducing other
talent from Toledo, Morenci, Wauseon
and Lyons.
Liven Ud Tout Torpid Liver.
King's New Life Pills. They insure
To keep your liver active use Dr.
good, digestion, relieve constipation,'
and tone up the whole system keep
your eve clear and your skin fresh
D
learning by experience, but it brought
improvement in nealtn, pleasure
some profits and a definite purpose.
Weoer studied nis business and put
nieoiy into practice; constructing
ms pians and miuing tnat increase ox
Pioiius dm not mean a lessening ol
pleasure or improvement 01 nealtn,
uent nis energies to development
ins iiiuustry.
Xne Orpington breed of poultry
seemed to strike nis xancy and witn
pure blooded aristocrats of this
lamny he Kept at the wor during tne
second year going into tne capomzing
anu reaping a harvest ol pront tner.e-
oy. nis uirds ot high degree, or
pedigree, were prize winners at the
anu as poultry shows, eggs for
icning and eggs tor eating, chicks
anu cnickens were produced and sold
anu tne second year showed a net
pront of $500.
'rue third year, or last year, the
business grew to still larger propor
tions, new breeds were introduced to
tne five acre farm lying within the
lty boundaries of Wauseon." E. C.
rthode Island Keds and S. C. White
Leghorns of aristocratic lineage came
to live next door to"1 the first families
of Orpingtons. "Broilers" as well as
apons found their way from this
plant to the markets. The show
oirds took still more and better prizes
and the net profits for the year were
$60d. For this fourth year Harry
has set his goal at $800 to $1000 net
profit and to the visitor it seemed
that he was pretty certain of reaching
his goal.
300 mature birds, all carefully sep
arated, as to breeds and grades. A
mamoth hover in and about which were
gathered between two and three
hundred lively chicks and the incuba
tors adding to collection daily until
the limit of the hover's capacity, 500
chicks, is reached.
Three months from now these hits
of down and feathers will be finished
broilers" ready for the hie- citv mar
kets where they will bring from for-
.y lo rorty-eignt cents per pound;
neii uie incuDators will go into com
mission again to turn out 500 more
tucks.
Plans for enlargement of tli nlani
including extensive hover nouses nnH
an mcuDator cellar have been made
and will be carried out. in nm-t o
least, during this present year.
jvery wnere were signs of Harry's
constructive genius in bran mash
feeders and shell ore i-n
the evident utilization of every foot
of the minature farm .and in the mani
fest care with which accurate account
is kept of all items of expenditure
and receipts of the plant.
in and about amone his feathered
oartners walkes Sarry Weber, every
individual chicken seemed to be on
peaking terms with him. qui)
visitor realized that he was in the
presence of a real "Captain of In-
iustry." A bov who stavs at
and makes good; who is making a
business grow and is growing with it.
EARLY CROP.
The first sprouts of the rnr.
of candidates are showing giving in
dications of a record breaking crop
for next August's harvest.
Crrovernor WllllS has pertainlir
made good during his first term and
no serious candidates for the sillier.
natorial office are likely to appear in
rvejjuuiican ranKs. . uver in the
ucmucrauc paten Dptn ex-governor
Cox and the former president f the
Ohio Agricultural Commission are
announced as candidates. Stephen 4
btilwell of Lebanon. Warren
has made a decided start for the
nomination for Auditor of State nn
the Republican ticket, and there are
others who are beginning to show
in the state political field. Nearer
home, in our own county "ten acres"
mere are also showing sprouts eiv-
ing inuicaiions oi a growing crop. Of
course there are rumors that may or
may not be true, but we are pretty
sure tnat or tne republicans, Fred
Perry of Fayette will be a candidate
for County Auditor, and he will make
a good one. A. E. Bonar will be
candidate for County Commissioner
and there are at least two eood can
didates out for sherin5 in the persons
oi wm. rJoone and Charlie Snyder.
Ohio republicans have eyes for-but
one presidential candidate and that
ex-Senator Theodore Burton
though there are going to be several
to choose from.
WTYMHIRS
Court House News For The Week-
Cases in Probate Court Marriage
Licenses Real Estate Tranafera
Orders Drawn on Treasury New
Cases in Common Pleas Court.
Probate Court.
Estate ox Marquis D. Osgood, first
anu nnai account conurmeu.
uuaruiansoip oi xiarry m. Werner,
application ior appointment ox guar-
vuau iuea. uonu aied ana approved
ua letters ox guardianship are issued
lo vieorge n. aucz. inventory xueo.
Uuaruiansnip ox xiarry m. Werner,
unai account, uieu by administrator ox
uie estate ox Joel bnoemaKer, aeceas
eo. near ing reDruary zi, Xlo.
Estate ox Mary au Jjinius applica
tion mea ana approved and letters
testamentary issueu to vieorge John-
bon, anu Aiuoid Waideck, a. a. Cas- .
son anu W . J. rioch are appointed appraisers.
win of Mathew Steward, widow
ciecteu to tane under said will.
ucutLe ox inzabetn Krieger, de
weaseu, third partial account tued.
iieaauig set for February 21st, laio. -
restate oX J. K Urailey, first par
tial account tiled. Hearing set xor
r eoruary 21, lylb.
irusteesmp ox David Merillat, in
ventory fiiea.
ornery K. Fox as adniinistrator W.
Vf A. Lucy Seward, deceased vs
vViiiiam H. Seward, et al order of ap
praisement of real estate tiled and
confirmed.
will ox Mary V. Russell filed for
probate. Hearing set lor January 2b,
rtfio, at one o'clock p. m.
Guardianship of Christian Rufen
acht, hearing held and found neces
sary to appoint guardian for said
ward. Application for appointment
as guardian filed. Bond filed and let
ters of guardianship issued to Jacob
C. Frey. .
Estate of Magdalena Ruf enacht. de
deased, application for letters of ad
ministration filed. Bond filed and ap
proved and letters of administration
issued to Jonathan Rupp and August
Ruihley, . John Munroe and O. A.
Waldvogel are appointed as appraisers.
M B. Cottrell as administrator W.
W. A. vs Josephine Parent, et al, sale
of real estate reported and confirm
ed. Deed ordered.
FOR U. S. SENATOR.
non. i. jvt. Dougherty has an
nounced his candidacy for the Re
publican nomination for the United
States Senatorship from Ohio. Mr.
Daugherty is. a thorough going Re
publican who has given many years
of service in the support of the party
and its candidates. He stands for a
Protective Tariff necessary and ade
qute Preparedness and for fostering
and . upbuilding American Citizenship.
One remedy with many uses Han
ford's Balsam of Myrrh.
Marriage Licenses. '
Herbert A.- Evans, 38, traveling
engineer,. Montpelier, Ohio, and
Gaytha J. Gephart, 33, milliner, Wau
seon, Ohio. Rev. A. Barker officiating.
Jesse E. Eubank. 32, farmer, Toledo.
and Carrie M. Boorman, 25, Archbold,
Ohio. Li. a. ueyo, officiating.
Clarence L. Seigneuer. 26, farmer.
Lyons, Ohio . and Bertha May Whit
comb, 19, Wauseon, Ohio. Rev. J. A.
Wharton, officiating. .. ...,.
Olen W. Wirick, 24, farmer, Fay
ette nnd lTreda Marie TTnnv 90 Fair-
ette, Ohio. Rev. Rella officiating.
- -i. ...
Real Estate Transfers.
Wm. A. Luty and wife to Frank L.
Flory, part lot 10, Siegles addition
Archbold, Ohio, $1000.
Franklin E. Luke and wife to Ivah
M. Griesinger, 81 rods land, section
33, Fulton township, $300.
Harry Yarnell and wife to Byron
Yarnell, 8 acres, .section 24, York
township, $1. ,
Byron Yarnell to Wm. Wolcott, 8
acres, section 24, xorK township,
$1000.
Simon Rychener and 'wife to Nich
olas L. Fisher, lots . and part lota
37, Jacob Guyman's addition, Pettis
ville, Ohio, $1.
E. S. Harroun to Fred and Julia
Gifford, lot ' 3, Linehan and Peter's
addition, Lyons, $1.
Albert Linehan and B. W. Peters to
Francis Hallett, lot 5, Carraghar, $1.
Albert Linehan to Francis Hallett.
lot 2, Carraghar, Ohio, $200.
Nicholas Mossing to Francis Hal
lett, lot 1, Simon's addition, Car
raghar, Ohio, $200.
Jane Rynd to Wm. T. N. Rynd, 80
acres, section 14, Royalton township,
$1.
W. J. Harper and wife to Dorr 1
Miles, 60 acres, section 1, Dover
township, '$1.
Wm. A. Luty and wife to Wm.
Erbskorn, part lot 10, Siegle's addi
tion, Archbold, Ohio, $940.
Sadie Mills Schwab, et al to P. A.
Mills, lot 22, Geo. Curtis' addition,
Swanton. $930.
Catherine Vernier, et al to Rudolph
Siefert, Sr., lot 10 John Rupp's Jr,
addition, Archbold, $700.
Jane McKensey to Willis L. KnotT,
part normal lot, Fayette, Ohio, $1.
Roscoe Rice to Willis L. Knoff, out
lot, 132, Normal plat, Fayette, $1.
' (Continued on page Eight)
L PRESTIGE
II When a check is received bearing I
the name, "First National Bank", it, 11
II carries with it prestige and the re- I I
cipient knows the maker of the check
has sound banking connections. I I
In offering the services of this bank, ' I II
we are placing at your disposal bank- 11
, ing relations that must reflect to your
advantage in all your business :
dealings, which is prestige. II II
First National Bank'' I
"The BANK-BY-MAIL Bank"
Wauseon, - - - Ohio
and healthy looking. Only 25c at your
Druggists.
