The Echo has a
reading circulation
of over 4.000 per
sons who trade in
Leavenworth. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 4
SNOW SLIDE ON G. N. TAKES TOLL
OE EIGHT LIVES-MANY INJURED
Occurred Saturday Morning at fast Portal of Horseshoe Tunnel
-Two Leavenworth People Escaped Injury
THE DINER AND DAY COACH GO OVER THE BANK
Diner lakes Tire and One Man is Burned—Three Missing, Are Supposed to Be
Buried in the Snow—4oo Feet of Snow Sheds are Also
Swept Away By an Avalanche of Snow
The mod disastrous wreck on the
Great Northern railroad since the 26th
of February, 1910, when 93 people
were killed by a gigantic avalanch of
of snow and rock at the west portal of
the Cascade Tunnel, occurred last Sat
urday morning shortly after 8 o'clock,
at the east portal of the horseshoe tun
nel, about six miles west of where the
great slide took place five years ago.
Eight people lost their lives. One
being burned in the dining car which
took fire after rolling down the bank,
and some twenty more or less injured.
Train No. 26, due here at 3:20, was
thirty minutes late last Saturday morn
ing. George T. Stirling and Peter
Saner took passage on the train and
were bound for Seattle. Both escaped
serious injury. Mr. Stirling was in the
sleeping car dressing when the crash
earner This' car turned over but did
not go over the bank. Mr. Saver was
in the day coach which went over the
bank and rolled and slid down the
steep mountain side about 175 feet.
Mr. Saver was one of those taken out
of the car alive and only slightly hurt.
Mrs. Fern Wallace and baby, of Lyons.
Wash., were in this car and perished.
Their bodies have not yet been found.
Ralph Batterman, 10 years old, baby
Batterman and Edward Batterman, of
Wenatchee, were also in the day coach
and were killed. Mrs. Batterman es
caped. The body of Mr. Batterman
was found with the baby clasped in his
arms.
The dining car also went over the
bank and lodged near the day coach.
Two employes and an unknown man,
described as a large man with a bald
head, were killed in this car, the latter
having burned up in the car which
took fire from the range. Five ser
iously injured passengers were taken to
an Everett hospital on a relief train
which was sent out from that place.
The bodies of Ralph Batterman and
and Mrs. Wallace and baby are buried
in the snow and may not be found
until the snow disappears in the spring.
The destroyed train had stalled in a
small drift or slide and had been there
some time waiting for a helper train.
Conductor Harrington, in charge of
the train, an old time man on the
road, had gone thru the great Welling
ton disaster and knew his train was in
a dangerous place. He talked with
some of the passengers and told them
a slide might occur at any moment.
One of the rotary snow plows sta
tioned at this place was caught twelve
miles up the canyon with tremendous
ilides behind it and many between it
and the summit of the Cascades. For
tunately it was well supplied with fuel
and kept busy Saturday and Sunday
trying to clear the roadbed of snow.
Sunday a snow plow and a work train
with iome two hundred men arrived
here from Spokane and Monday morn
ing the flides were tackeled from both
ends and in the middle. In the mean
time all trains were routed by way of
the Northern Pacific. We had one
train a day between here and Spokane
nntil Tuesday, when the first train
horn the west came in during the
night, opening the road to traffic much
quicker than was first calculated could
be done.
Shortly alter the slide that brought
TOe Xeavenwortb |11§I
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow -v>>* .
disaster to the train others followed.
Only a short distance away a large
sfide carried away over 400 feet of
wooden snow shed. Indeed, there
were fifty or more slides. They began
a half mile west of Leavenworth and
followed each other at short intervals
all the way to the summit on the east
side of the mountains. On the west
side the condition was almost as bad.
The weather conditions could not have
been better to develop slides. On
Thursday night previous to the disaster
fourteen inches of very wet snow fell,
which continued until noon of the
next day, getting constantly warmer,
and then began to rain, and rained all
night. Sunday the sun shone out
bright all day and was followed about
six o'clock with a strong Chinook.
This was followed in the night with a
cold wave so that Monday morning
everything was frozen up again.
Notes of the Disaster
Peter Saver was in the smoking car
when the avalanche struck the train.
At first he thought there had been a
collision. The car began to raise, and
all the passengers rushed to the front
to get out. He looked out of the
window and saw the chair car and din
ing car tumble over. The dining car
turned over once, slid many feet and
then burst into flames. All those es
caping injury rushed to extricate pas
sengers buried in the snow.
Miss Fern Murdock, a youne school
teacher of Cashmere, Wash., had a
thrilling escape. She was in the end
of the chair car and was thrown down
the mountain side SO feet into snow up
to her neck.
Mrs. Edward Batterman, of Wenat
chee, with her husband and three chil
dren, was on her way to Oregon to at
tend the funeral of her mother. She
was in the lavatory warming a bottle of
milk for her 8-months-old baby when
the slide hit the chair car. The bottle
broke, severely cutting her. She was
pinned fast in the car by debris and it
pas forty minutes after an opening was
cut into the car before she was extri
cated. Her husband and baby were
found dead, the baby clasped in its
fathers's arms. Her 10-year-old son is
missing. The tbiid child escaped un
hurt.
Attendants at the hospital in Everett
informed Mrs. Batterman of the death
of her husband, eight months old baby
and son Ralph on Monday. She is
very week and nervous as a result of
her harrowing experience in the wreck,
but she bore the news bravely.
Mr. Stirling said to a reporter, "The
avalanch took the front trucks of our
car of! the track and the porter yelled,
"Everybody get out of here.' The
snow poured in thru the windows as
tho a torrent of water had hit the car.
I got out and saw the diner and the
chair car nearly 200 feet below us.
The diner was on fire. Our own car
was on edge and the chair car lay be
low the diner and on the brink of the
lower embankment. Everybody ran to
the diner to help out those imprisoned
in it. Two women and three men
were in the cai and they were brought
out thru the windows with the fire
0|
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, January 28, 1916
blazing witbin ten feet of them. Two
of the women were piled on the floor
with a negro Dorter lying on top of
them. Snow filled the car."
Walter S. Carter, of Vancouver, was
carried out dead. The car was searched
by the light of matches. The last man
out said that still another remained in
the car but no further trace of him was
found and it is believed that he was
cremated.
The day coach was turned over. It
was a steel car and burried in the snow
until almost invisible. People inside
were talking and screaming. The
workers were unable to get at the win
dows and had to chop their way into
the car. It took an hour to reach the
first man. A little boy, Arthur Smith,
was next. He was almost frozen
and his clothes had to be cut from
him, then he was rubbed with snow.
For two hours a woman was heard
screaming before help reached her.
She was cut and bleeding badly and
almost frozen. It took six hours to
get all passengers out of the car.
G. A. Lloyd and Jessie Ferguson
were sitting in the same seat when the
crash came. They embraced each
other and clung tightly together while
the car rolled over the precipice.
They were in that position from 9
o'clock until 1:15, when they were
taken out.
Charles A. Reynolds, chairman of
the state public service commission,
went to Corea to interview employes ol
the Cascade division regardine precau
tions taken to prevent accidents in the
mountains. Mr. Reynolds said that
the public service commission would
conduct a thorough investigation of
the disaster. W. E. Weeks and Geo.
B. Winters, federal inspectors of safety
appliances, went to Corea tonight to
assist the state officials in the investi
gation.
Representatives of several motion
picture companies, who went into the
mountains on snow shoes to take pic
tures of the wreck scene and the res
cue work, were prevented by railroad
employes from 'jsing their cameras.
They were herded into a car which
they were forbidden to leave unless
they left their motion picture outfits
behind.
Chairman Reynolds, of the public
service commission, went to Corea,
which is the nearest station, Sunday
at the request of Governor Lister to
conduct a personal investigation of the
cause of the accident.
Mrs. George Doust, of Spokane, was
eating breakfast in the dining car when
the accident occurred, but was rescued
by the waiters.
M. J. Costello, assistant traffic man
ager of the Great Northern, was shav
ing in the parlor car but escaped un
hurt.
Several passengers in the sleeping car
were slightly hurt when the front end
of the car was thrown around and hung
suspended over the canyon. In their
hurry to escape many passengers fled
partly dressed and huddled together
wrapped in blankets until relief came.
J. M. Gruber, vice president in
charge of operations, and George H.
Emerson, general manager of the Great
Northern, both of St. Paul, who were
on the coast on a tour of inspection,
went to Corea and took personal charge
of the work of searching for the miss
ing and clearing the track.
The body of Mrs. Fern Wallace was
found late Tuesday afternoon buried
under eight feet of snow, with the baby
tightly clasped in her arms. There were
no bruises or marks on the body and it
could not be determined if death re'
suited from freezing or suffocation.
Attorney Whitney ol Wenatchee,
who was on the rear end of the train,
saw the slide coming and lumped off.
He ran down the track in an effort to
beat the slide by getting under a snow
shed. He was knocked down, but (tot
(Concluded on I-ast Pagei
FIRE DEPARTMENT IS
IS TO BE ORGANIZED
Will Consist of Ten Members, Sam Daly
Appointed Chief--Council Pays
Many Bills
The city council met in regular ses
sion Tuesday evening with the follow
ing members present, Featherstone,
Kugelman, Miller, Snyder and Seeley,
with Mayor Day in the chair. Hale
and Woldenberg were the absentees.
The first matter up for consideration
after the reading of the minutes was a
big stack of bills that took the biggest
part of the evening to dispose of.
They amounted to the modest sum of
about $1200, most of them resulting
from the freeze-up of the water sys
tem. Following are the expense in
curred:
1200 feet Water Pipe 8454.90
Freight on Pipe 54.00
Labor on Pipe Line 425.15
Lamb-Davis Lbr. Co., furnish
ing water 18^ days 185.00
Libery 19.00
Barrels for hauling water 17.50
Hauling water 7.50
Sam Daly, special work 30.00
Total 81193.00
Seven hundred feet of pipe were
used in replacing the frozen pipe ac
cording to Water Commissioner Tol
bert. This leaves 500 feet on hand,
for the next annual freezup.
They say experience is a dear teach
er. LeaveDWOith has found it doubly
dear. Will it teach her any wisdom?
A man is now stationed at the in
take to keep it clear of ice and pre
vent a recurrence of our recent trouble.
At the last meeting of the council
Clerk Brown was instructed to inquire
of Nuzum, Clark & Nuzum whether
they would institute suit against Sea
man & Quigg and carry it thru the
courts on a contingent fee. The fol
lowing answer was received:
City Clerk, Leavenworth, Wash..
Dear Sir —Your letter of January 6th
received with reference to the Seaman
& Quigg suit. In view of the position
that the City Attorney takes and of our
remoteness from Wenatchee, where it
would be necessary for us to go, we
would not feel like taking the case on
a contingent basis. It would entail a
great deal of expense, and then too,
in order to win this suit we ought to
have the co-operation of your officials
including the city attorney, who is a
very important witness. If his testi
mony would be in accordance with his
conversation with us and the testimony
of the engineer who talked with us
would be the same, it would be a dif
ferent matter, but we do not care to
get mixed up in a sort of family row
in this matter. With the attitude of
your couusel and the turn the thing
has taken, we would not be inclined to
accept the employment except on a
straight fee contract.
Yours very truly,
Nuzum, Clark & Nuzum.
After a short discussion the matter
was laid over until the next meeting.
An ordinance was introduced provid
ing for a fire department to consist of
a chief and ten members. The mayor
appoints the chief, who will select the
ten members. The chief will receive
J5 for each fire he attends and the
balance of the members will receive SI
and 50c an hour for time put in fight
ing fires. It also provides a compen
sation of 82.50 for owner of the team
that hauls the fire fighting apparatus to
the scene of the fire.
Sam Daly was appointed chief with
the the hearty approval of council.
The bootlegging ordinance passed
at the last meeting conflicted in one
of its sections with the state law and
will come up again at the next meet
ing.
The bond of Marshall Potter was ap
proved.
Sam Daly was allowed $30 for his
services which went far toward reliev
ing the situation during our recent
water shortage.
A motion to adjourn then carried.
They are going fast. Secondhand
Heaters and Ranges at K. & V. B.
Hdw. Co. *3tl
Wheeler wants your drug business. *3
O. I S. Club Have an Evening
The O. E. S. club met at the Ma
sonic hall club room Monday evening
and elected Mrs. R. B. Field president
and Mrs. F. A. Losekamp secretary.
A sewing circle was organized and
hereafter will meet every other week at
the homes of some of the members.
Mesdames R. B. Field, W. A. Tegt
meier, Ross Irwin and J. D. Wheeler
served the members with a highly ap
preciated lunch.
$1,312 DAMAGES AGAINST
(MAN COUNTY'S SHERIFf
Special Italian Deputy Shoots Wild and
Nits Hotel Waitress
The suit against Sheriff Kenyon
which occupied the attention of the
Superior court nearly all last week ter
minated Thursday night in a verdict of
$1,312 against the sheriff and his
bondsmen.
It appears that Sheriff Kenyon ap
pointed an Italion by the name of
Tony John to arrest Mike Trotto, an
other alien, who escaped from the
asylum where he was confined for mak
ing an assault on his wife in a crazy
fit. Whether Kenyon was afraid to go
after the crazy Italian does not appear.
He says he could not find him and he
employed Tony John to make the ar
rest. It appears he supplied him with
a pistol and a forestry guard badge,
which the Italian took for a regular
sheriff's badge of office. Tony got
crazy, too, at least he shot at some
thing and the ball went tbru a door
and hit a waitress by the name of
Sylvia Cross. Kenyon tried to get out
of responsibility by showing that he
had not given the Italian a regular
sheriff's star and only employed him as
a private citizen and never intended to
appoint him as a deputy, and there
fore was not responsible for the injury
to Miss Cross.
The Italian was convicted of third
degree assault. When he fired the
bullet which went thru a door and
struck Miss Cross he is supposed to
have been in a state of mental agita
tion believing Trotto was about to
harm him.
Miss Cross, the complaint says, suf
fered excruciating pain and was con
fined to her bed several weeks, unable
to work as the result of the wound.
She was employed at the Hotel Del
Mundo.
forestry Office Notes
Forest Supervisor Sylvester says his
office is receiving inquiiies from a
number of parties about timber from
the Wenatchee forest for lumbering
purposes, which is another indication
of increasing interest on the part of
lumber and sawmill men and points to
a revival of the industry.
Between forty and fifty acres of land
in the Pine creek district, west of
Leavenworth, will be reforested the
coming summer by setting out young
trees. This forest is supplied with
trees from the government nursery in
the Wind river valley, in the Columbia
forest.
The forestry people are experiment
ing with different varieties of trees to
determine what varieties are best adapt
ed to different localities, and also the
difference, if any, between a north or
south slope, or an east or west slope.
The soil effect on the growing trees is
also carefully noted.
Train Service Resumed Tuesday
After a tie-up of nearly four days
thru train service was resumed Tuesday
afternoot. The first train from the
coast arrived here Tuesday evening at
8:40, which was followed by three other
trains during the night.
Card Party and Dance, third of series,
given in Firemen's hall by Catholic
Ladies, Thursday, Feb. 3. Four prizes,
good music, clean dancing. 4*
Mrs. Deed H. Mayar returned from
the coast yesterday after spending the
last three weeks in Seattle and Everett.
Our Job Printing
department is com
plete. If you want
Hign Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to this office.
$1.50 Per Year
WILL THE BIG MILL RUN?
FEW WEEKS WILL TELL
If It Runs at All It Will Run Full Blast-
Night and Day
To settle some rumors that have been
floating around since the first of the
week, a reporter for this paper inter
viewed Mr. Geo. L. Gardner, general
manager of the Lamb-Davis Lumber
Cos. bie mill. Mr. and Mrs, Gardner
returned from Minneapolis last Sunday
after an absence of some two months
The report that has gained currency
is not authentic. The bis; mill may
run, and likely will, but the matter has
not been definitely settled. Nor has
a date been set when operations will
begin. One thing tho has been settled.
If it begins operations at all it will run
full blast. A few weeks hence the
matter of its operation will be definitely
and positively determined on.
One thing is well settled. The lum
ber business is no longer in the dol
drums. Every mill in the country is
making plans to resume operations in
the early spring. The market for
lumber is strong and the prices have
already advanced and are expected to
advance further.
The resumption in the lumber trade
is not wholly due to a foreign demand.
There is a home demand for lumber of
all kinds. The railroads are buying
freely. Shipyards are using large quan
tities of lumber and expect to use much
more in the near future. The building
trades are looking forward to a general
resumption in building. The demand
for additional cars by the railroads is
also expected to require considerable
lumber.
As the lumber industry is the busi
ness barometer in this state, a general
revival in all lines of activity is looked
for with the opening of spring.
Crude Oil in Cascade Orchard
Well
J. H. Stephens, owner of a five-acre
orchard tract in the east end of what is
known as the Cascade Orchards, lying
on the north side of the Icicle river,
about two miles southwest of Leaven
worth, dug a well on his place last
wee* and when he reached a depth of
fourteen feet struck water. He took
the water to his home and his wife
complained that the water tasted and
smelled of kerosene oil. The follow
ing morning he made an examination
and found a dark looking substance
floating on top of the water in the
newly dug well. He brought a bottle
of water to town Monday and exhibited
it at the store of the Leavenworth Mer
cantile Co., where a number of per
sons have examined it. On an eighth
of a pint of water there is floating per
haps a half teaspoonful of dark looking
oily substance. Some of the stuff
placed on a splinter of wood burned
readily. Mr. E. H. Rothert, who has
been among the oil wells of Pennsyl
vania and has visited the oil wells of
Western Washington, does not hesi
tate in saying that the substance is
crude kerosene oil. He says he in
tends to visit the well and will obtain a
sample for anilization. He also says
that oil has been found in Washington
in a number of places, principally on
the west coast, but so far not in paying
quantities. If the indications are good
and the geological formation is favor
able, he says, it might be worth while
to sink a well twelve or fifteen hun
dred feet and make a test, as that is
the only known way to determine if it
exists in commercial quantities.
An Entertainment Worth Seeing
Tonight you will have an opportunity
to hear something worth while. The
Musical Entertainers will appear at the
Scenic under the auspices of the Kum
tux club. Do you remember *J;e last
entertainment brot out by the Kuratux?
This is equally as meritorious. Go and
see it. Gallery seats 35c. 4*
Batter Wrappers at the Echo Office.
