THIRTIETH YEAR
"BREAD FOR THE LIVING
SHROUDS FOR THE DEAD"
I want to say a word or two to my fellow-citizens of
Aberdeen, in regard to the appeal that is now before us
all to send some relief to the destitute Jews in the war
zone.
As has been stated already, this is the first time that
the Jews come to Christians to ask for bread for the needy
in their own ranks. As a people we are not given to
begging, and the world knows that. We would rather
not make this appeal, but the crush of calamity leaves
no other way out. The number of Jews suffering is so
great, the Jews alone cannot make adequate provisions.
And when I say Jews are suffering, it means not only men
and women, but also children and babies, who seem to
have been brought into the world to die from hunger and
exhaustion, while your and my babies are cuddled and
taken care of with the best the world affords. It pierces
my heart to think that such innocents should be crying
for milk or bread, and no one there able to answer the call.
Think of mothers seeing their babies wilt away like a
flower, and imagine the untold agony of a mother's heart.
It is true other nationalities also have been made to
suffer. But their suffering, sad as it is, has not been
aggravated by an unjust discrimination at the hands
of their own government, such as has been ac
corded to the Jews in Russia. It is their own so-called
accorded to the Jews in Russia. It is their own so-called
government that has caused their homes to be burned,
and ordered them at a moment's notice to become wan
derers on the face of the earth, wanderers in an unfriendly
country where their best friends seemed to be the grave.
As said before, the distress has been aggravated by the
fact that the Jew is considered unfit to be a citizen, al
though he is considered fit to lay down his life on the
battlefield for the sake of preserving the very govern
ment that treats him and his as aliens, and outcasts, even
at the time when 350,000 Jews in the thick of battle, show
themselves equal in bravery and patriotic zeal with any
one engaged in the terrible slaughter. The cry of distress
is so great, that we as Jews, are at our wits' end to know
what to do. The number of distressed ones is so great,
there is no way of answering it unless our fellow Amer
ican citizens will come to our assistance.
I therefore, appeal to my fellow-citizens of Aberdeen,
to do their share in this matter. We do not wish to speak
of the ready response we have given, are giving, and hope
to give in the future, as we have in the past, to any appeal
of distress. We are proud of what we can do in such
matters and now since the tables have been turned, since
we are compelled as a race to appeal to you for the Jewish
people in the war zone, I am confident that you will open
your hearts and give, each one in accordance with his or
her ability to give. Large or small, every donation will
be appreciated and help to cement that fellow-feeling
which is the strength of our beloved country and the rock
upon which the United States of America has laid the
foundation of the highest attainable civilization, the
grandest exemplification of the real meaning of brotherly
love.
Sincerely,
GEORGE J. WOLFF.
MAY DEBATE
ON MERIT OF
COMMISSION
Arguments Over City
Government to Be
Made in Rostrum
CANDIDATES OUT
Half Dozen May Run
Should Commission
Form Win Out
A public debate on the merits and
demerits of the commission form of
government is planned for early in
February. This may inject more life
into the campaign which, with the
special election only one month off,
seems apathetic.
Should the commission form of gov
ernment carry at the election, possi
ble candidates for commissioners are
Mayor J. M. Phillips, City Engineer
L. D. Kelsey, E. B. Crary, Boy Sar
gent, L. G. Humbargar, E. G. Hunt
and Councilman Warren Egerer. None
of these men has indicated desire
for the job, but their names are free
ly mentioned in desultory discussions
of the campaign. In event the com
mission form loses, candidates for
mayor may be the incumbent, Sargent
and Humbargar, and Eugene France,
■>rmer mayor, though none of them
as advanced his candidacy. In this
same event, to., EJ. B. Crary likely
•will run against T. H. Hill, incum
bent, for the place of city treasurer.
THE ABERDEEN HERALD
EIGHT PAGES
though he has not declared himself
as being out for the job, as yet.
The Socialists will center their
fight, as in former years, on a strug'
gle for couneilmanic places and for
the city clerkship. Joe Thomas will
make the race against Peter F. Clark.
,E. E. Wieland and E. A. Milette,
councilmen from the second and sixth
wards, respectively, will seek re-elec
tion. Charles Ivana will run from
the first ward; and, should he be
elected, that ward, with Pista, would
have two socialists in the council.
A week from tomorrow, Saturday,
February 5, is the last day upon
which filings may be made by can
d'dates. The special election at
which will be determined whether the
city is to change its government form
to commission will be held Monday,
February 28. Municipal primaries
will be held Tuesday, March 7, and
the municipal election Tuesday, April
4.
IN SUPERIOR COURT
Barney Weldon was sentenced,
Monday, to from one to five years in
thp state penitentiary for participa
tion in a hold-up at Montes'ano last
June.
Karl Mish of Aberdeen was con
victed, Monday, of arson In the sec
ond degree. He endeavored to fire
the house of his son-in-law, C. E.
Theil, at 506 West Wishkah street,
Christmas day.
Yacob Malsogow, the last of the
three men convicted of the Elnia
bank robber}, must go to Walla Wal
la, the supreme court ruling against
his petition for a new trial.
FOREST YIELD BIG
Since 1908, there have been taken
from the national forests five billion
board feet of wood and timber prod
ucts.
LOST, STOLEN OR STRAYED, ONE "DOVE OF PEACE," LAST HEARD OF
SOMEWHERE ON THE SHORES OF THE NORTH SEA. FINDER PLEASE
RETURN TO HENRY FORD, MAKER OF "PERAMBULATORS," OR TO W. J.
BRYAN, "GRAPE JUICE" EXPERT. NO QUESTIONS ASKED.
MANY PEOPLE THINK THAT THIS DOVE OF PEACE IS A CIRCUS
CLOWN DRESSED UP LIKE A BIRD, BUT THIS IS NOT THE CASE, TO
ORNITHOLOGISTS IT IS KNOWN AS A "FOID BOID."
NATIONAL PREPAREDNESS IS NOW THE ALL ABSORBING QUESTION.
IT IS EASY TO BECOME VERY POSITIVE AND EMPHATIC ON EITHER
SIDE OF THE QUESTION. THE SUBJECT INVOLVES HUNDREDS OF MIL
LIONS OF DOLLARS OF WHICH EVERY PERSON IN THE UNITED STATES
IN ONE WAY OR ANOTHER WILL HAVE TO BEAR A PART OF THE ENOR
MOUS BURDEN. ON THE OTHER HAND CAN WE AFFORD IN THE PRES
ENT TEMPER AND ATTITUDE OF NATIONS TO BE TOTALLY UNPREPARED
AND AT THEIR MERCY? 'TIS A GREAT QUESTION.
BUYS TIMBER LAND
The Anderson & Mi'iuleton company
has bought 200,000,000 feet of timbei
in the North River district from the
Weyerhaeuser Timber company, ac
cording to reliable report. The con
sideration is said to have been $500,-
000. The timber adjoina the North
River line of the 0.-R. R. & N. com
pany, which soon will be plaeed in
! operation.
ABERDEEN, WASHINGTON, FRiDAV/r—min r/28. 1916.
OPEN STATION HERE
A raval recruiting station will be
opened iu the Avalon building next
Tuesday, Quarters were secured last
T* rek by Lieut. Com. J. H. Blackburn,
U S. N., who came up from Portland
for the purpose. Two naval men will
be iu churge of the office.
The Pcrald is a good newspaper;
costs you $1.61 a year.
ABANDONED.
MIDDLE GROUND.
—Kirby in New York World.
—Chapin in St. Louis Republic.
SERMON-LESSONS
Subject of Lesson-Sermoi.s of First
Church of Christ, Scientist.
January 30.—"Love."
February 6—"Spirit."
February 13. —"Soul."
February 20—"Mind."
February 27 —"Christ Jesus."
March s—"Man."
March 12- ' Substance."
March 19 —"Matter."
March 26—"Reality."
ASK CHANGE
OF SITE FOR
POSTOFHCE
Petition Signers Seek
New Location for
Building
FIGHT NOW CERTAIN
Opponents of Change
Allege Arguments
Are Selfish
A petition is being circulated asking
for a change in the site purchased in
1910 for a Federal building, on the
southeast corner of Second and G
streets, on the ground that it is not
centrally located and not adapted to
the purpose. The petitions are report
ed to have been started by Frank
Stenzel, of Hayinond, who owns some
valuable corner properties on Broad
way, here. The petitions convey the
impression that the site now owned
by the government is not satisfactory
to the department of tlie treasury.
Opponents of a change contend that
the petition's purpose is to delay the
erection of the building, for which the
department is now ready to award the
contract, in order to extend the occu
pancy of the present postoffice, which
was erected for the purpose a year
ago. In support of the site now own
ed, it is claimed that the location
is as central as could possibly be se
cured, and that it is but 650 feet north
of the old postoffice, which was en
tirely satisfactory, so far as location
was concerned, for fifteen years; that
on the city map, in which the city cov
ers 46 inches east and west and 32
inches north and south, the site at Sec
ond and G streets is 14 inches from the
north line, 18 inches from the south,
1 24 inches from the east and 22 inehts
from the west line.
To the allegation.of the advocates of
j the change, that the site is too far
from the business center, opponents
say that business and professional
men patronize the postoffice, by per
sonal visits, very slightly; that they
buy stamps and stamped envelopes In
large quantities, and send a clerk for
personal visits. They say, also, that
a postoffice being in the business
section is not so much an object with
the postal service as its being central
ly located geographically; that the
postal authorities consider the ideal
location one that resembles the hub
of a wheel, from which radiate as
spokes the different carrier routes, it
being the desire of the department to
deliver all letters by carrier when pos
sible.
Opponents to the petition express
indignation at this action of a non
resident speculator in Aberdeen real
ty, fearing possible delay in the erec
tion of a building costing $157,500,
which would go forward this spring
unless the petitions should cause delay
by holding up the awarding of the
contract until an inspector is sent
here to probe the matter.
GATHER MONDAY
TO GIVE IMPETUS
TO LEWIS BOOM
Republicans Plan Surprise in Boosting
Local Man's Candidacy
for Governor
Republicans of Grays Harbor will
gather next Monday at a booster noon
luncheon, in this city, at which it is
planned to add considerable impetus
to the boom for John G. Lewis as
governor. At this meeting something
unique in campaign methods will be
sprung, Luncheon will be served at
the Fairmont hatel.
Tomorrow a delegation of local Re
publicans will make a trip to Cen
tralia and Chehalis, in automobiles.
The Lewis boom will be given ginger
in those cities.
CITY WATER PROFITABLE
The Aberdeen water syste'm
made a net profit of $35,380.97
in 1915, according to City Treas
urer T. H. Hill's report. Re
ceipts were $61,293.85; expendi
tures $25,912.88, including main
tenance. Total receipts as com
pared with 1914, showed a fall
ing off of about $1,800.
a ••• A .♦* •>
WIDEN CLUB SCOPE
The old Aberdeen Rose club, at a
meeting this week, nnlareed its scope
to take in all of Grays Harbor, chang
ing the club name to suit. J. C. Smith.
Aberdeen school director, is president
of the reorganized club and Frank A.
Gillett of Hoquiam, vice president.
At the home of Mr. Smith on Febru
ary 7 will be held a meeting at which
plans for this year will be discuss
ed.
VOLUME 30.
COUNCIL FOR
POSTOFFICE
ON G STREET
Condemn Petition Start
ed Against Loca
tion Picked
DISPUTE OVER RENT
Humbargar Thinks He
Has Paid Enough to
Municipality
The city council took a Hand in thet
postoffice site fight, Wednesday eve
ning, adopting a resolution condem
ing the starting of a petition directed
j against the Second and G street lo
| cation. Final passage was given the
| ordinance raising bill poster's license
| from $25 to $100 a year, and the bond
j of Doyle and Lehman for their permit
i was accepted. The street committee
| and city engineer will take up with
L. G. Humbargar the dispute over
rent charged by the city for the land
at the foot of D street, Mr. Humbar
gar stating that the $900 he already
j had paid the city was more than the
I value of the land.
H. R. Eichler, with $15,692, and T.
1 low bidders for the permanent work
on the West bridge, of seven who bid.
Their bids were held for a meeting
Thursday night. The city attorney was
ordered to take legal steps to remove
H. B. Elder's windmill from the alley
off Sixth street. The ordinance pro
viding that physicians may not gtv*
prostitute* "certificates of health," waa
tabled indefinitely.
Chief of Police R. J. Schmidt's re
port for 1915 showed 1,345 arrests
were made; 10,005 meals served, 1389
: being to men who worked and 320 to
1 county prisoners; 822 given night's
lodging In jail; $11,681.86 paid out in
salaries and $400.98 In expenses; and
$2,126 imposed ill fines.
Samuel RosS, TOl West Curtis street
asked for $69 damages on account of
bursting of frozen pipes In his vacant,
house at 305 Harriman street after he
had notified the water department, he
said, to shut the water off. Claim was
referred to the city attorney. Claims
of George S. Wood, P. H. McMurray,
W. H. Turner and Earl H. Freeman,
for damages from the B street
were rejected.
RESPOND TO
APPEAL FOR
DISTRESSED
Subscriptions Pour in for
Jews of War-Torn
Europe
THEATERS DONATE
Committee Headed by
Patterson Does Ener- }
getic Work
Aberdeen is making swift and
generous response to the appeal for
the relief of distressed Jews In war
ravaged Europe. The local campaign,
was well started before yesterday,
set aside by President Woodrow Wil
son's proclamation, and money now
is coming in to the three banks, which
are depositories for subscriptions. The
big work was completed last night
but smaller donations doubtless will
be coming in for several days.
A committee of seven started th»
campaign: Mayor J. M. Phillips, Pres
ident A. C. Gaillac of the Aberdeen
Chamber of Commerce, James Howes,
A. L- Havenport, W. J. Patterson.
Rev. W. T. Randolph and Rev. T. H.
Simpson. Mr. Patterson, as chairman
of the committee, named these on a
larger body to solicit funds: W. CL
Mumav, John Fraser, P. A. Bertrand,
W. H. McWhinney, August Wallln,
J. S. Brecht, W. J. Egerer, Mrs. CL
E. Anderson, A. C. Gaillac, Mayor J.
M. Phillips, A. L. Davenport, E. A.
Morck, Joe Thomas, E. E. Welland,
William Donovan sr., Edward Hnl
bert, J. H. Wilson, Eugene France
J. B. Bridges, A. 3. Morley, James
Bowes, W. L. Stout and W. B. Mack.
In all local theaters last night 2S
per cent of the gross receipts wer%
donated to the fund.
Reasons why the appeal for relief «f
the Jews should be responded to by
all classes are strongly and lucidly
put forth in a communication from
George J. Wolff, to be fo'"id In ttt
other column of today's 1 °r-ld.
FINISH BRIDGE IN APRIL !
The West bridgo will be flnlsta4
and realy for traffic In April, figara*
Engineer C. B. Fowlor. *
NUMBER tr-
