Register Again!
Do It Now!
vol. xxv.
Ernest P. Marsh Is
Re-elected President
of State Federation
ALL BUT ONE OF OLD OFFICIALS
RE-ELECTED
Everettt Will Be Next Convention City
The officers who will head the
Washington State Federation of La
bor for the coming year were selected
at the annual convention at North
Yakima, Thursday, Jan. 20th. All
the old officers, with the single ex
ception of first vice-president, were
re-elected, R. C. Tait, of the Belling
ham Teamsters, retiring in favor of
Harry Call, of the same organization,
formerly with the Shingleweavers,
and two years ago the vice-president
of the Federation from that district.
J. H. Johnson, of the Wilkeson
Mine Workers, had the honor of plac
ing in nomination the president, E. P.
Marsh, of Everett, for re-election.
There were no further nominations,
and President Marsh was re-elected
by acclamation, the convention rising
In appreciation of the services ren
dered by him during the past year.
Similar action was taken with the of
fice of secretary-treasurer, William
J. Coates, of Spokane Pressman, nomi
nating Charles Perry Taylor, of Ta
coma Typographical, the incumbent,
in a neat speech, refuting the rumors
that Spokane had framed up against
the Tacoma man.
R. C. Tait, retiring officer, nominat
ed Harry Call, of the Bellingham
Teamsters, for first vice-president,
and the convention concurred. Like
action was taken with Second Vice-
President William J. Coates, who was
nominated by "Dad" Kilbury, of the
Spokane delegation; Third Vice
President Lee F. Clarke, of Walla
Walla, nominated by B. F. Weisinger,
of North Yakima Electrical Workers:
Fourth Vice-President V. T. Evans,
of Aberdeen, nominated by J. W. Bru
nett, of Hoquiam Carpenters: Fifth
Vice-President Rea Last nominated
by R. V. Hoyt. of Tacoma Trades
Council; Sixth Vice-President Wil
liam Short, nominated by E. B. Ault.
of Seattle; and Seventh Vice-Presi
dent E. A. Francois, nominated by
R. 11. Mills, ot" Everett Trades Coun
cil.
NOTICE TO STOCKHOLDERS
EVERETT TRADES BLDG. ASSN.
Stockholders in the Everett Trades
Building Association are hereby noti
fied thai the regular semi-annual
meet inn will be held in the Labor
Temple Saturday evening, Jan. 29th,
at 8 o'clock. Every stockholder is
urged to be present, as a matter of
great importance will come before the
members for action
E. P. MARSH,
Secy.-Treasurer.
EXPORTS BREAK RECORD
WASHINGTON.- American exports
increased 70 per cent, in 1915 and
reached a total of $M,500,000.000,
breaking all previous records. Fig
ures issued by the department of
commerce show heavy exports and
declining imports, together, set a new
American trade balance record at 11,
--772,000,000. The imports were the
smallest since 1912.
The country's total foreign trade,
exports and imports, passed the five
billion dollar mark during the year,
each month showing heavier exports
until December's reached 1861,000.000.
The trade balance of close to two bil
lion dollars was five times greater
than in 1914, when it stopped at 18*4.'
000,000. Exports have grown stead
ily and rapidly in the last four years,
tlie European war checking outgoing
shipments only for a brief time.
PICTURE OPERATORS GAIN
OREENBDITRG, Pa—Motion picture
operators have Increased wages from
$2 to 111 a week and secured better
working conditions
EVERETT FOR CONVENTION CITY
The contest for convention oity was
the center of considerable interest
and amusement. Harry Call nomi
nated Belliugham, and urged its claim
to consideration, ably backed up by
C. S. Hall and J. G. Brown. A. A.
Giersch nominated Everett, upon
which the consideration of that city
was objected to by Delegate T. V.
Copeland, of Tacoma Typographical,
on the ground that it would ruin his
reputation to be seen there —and he
wanted to attend the next convention.
A storm of objections, appeals, strong
arm rulings by President Marsh —who
is from Everett — catcalls and hoots
ensued, but the uproar was finally
subdued by the chairman, and in the
end "Cope" voted for the City of
Smokestacks. Fred Hudson, of Olym
pia Trades Council, nominated that
city, urging that the convention should
meet in the citadel of privilege just
before the legislative session.
A roll call vote showed 59 votes
for Everett, 38 for Bellingbam and
1 for Olympia.
SUZZALLO SPEAKS
Preceding the election" of officers,
President Henry Suzzallo, of the Uni
versity of Washington, addressed the
convention on the question of voca
tional training, emphasizing particu
larly the advances being made in
methods of instruction in the past few
years and outlining the function the
schools should perform in our pres
ent economic system. The president
expressed himself as particularly fav
oring trade and continuation schools
for young people forced into industry
at an early age. In reply to a ques
tion, the purpose of the new bureau
of Industrial research at the univer
sity was explained.
Fred J. Chamberlain, fraternal del
egate from the State Grange and a
member of the joint legislative com
mittee, was called on lor a talk by
President Marsh, and said the farm
ers certainly had no regrets for hitch
ing up with organized labor in the
past, and hoped the unionists felt
the same way about it. Mr. Chamber
lain mentioned his old friend the fish
trust, and in conclusion said the union
ists and the farmers and the progres
sive people of the state are going to
stick together until they get all the
initiative legislation they have plan
ned and until they swamp all the bills
referred to the people from the last
legislature.
HIGHER WAGES
FOR MOLDERS
CLEVELAND. —An agreement has
been reached between machine foun
dry members of the Iron Molders'
Union and their employers. A one
year contract provides that the pres
ent rate, $3.50, shall be raised to
|8.80, for the first three months, and
that $4 a day shall be the prevailing
rate thereafter. About 1,000 employes
ID over a score of shops are affected.
ELECTRICAL WORKERS WIN
MINNEAPOLIS. — Electrical Work
ers' Union has signed an agreement
with thi- W. O. Hartig Electrical Co.
after differences that existed for sev
eral months. The- Hartig concern is
the largest of its kind in the city and
has agreed to hereafter pay the
union's new rate, which is an Increase
of 6% cents an hour over the old
scale. '
HIGHER WAGES NEXT YEAR
HEAVER, Pa.—The Plumbers union
has renewed its contract for $4.!»<>
per day with employers. It is agreed
that next year's rate shall be $5.
Patronize YOUR advertiser*!
The Labor Journal
*
Report of President E. P. Marsh
of State Federation of Labor
(Continued from last week)
VALE AND FAREWELL
This convention marks tlie passage
of several unions heretofore active in
Federation work, due to the enact
ment of state-wide prohibition. The
voters have spoken and we bow to
the will of the majority, but not with
out a distinct sense of loss of many
sterling union people. Some of our
union brothers will leave for other
states where they may continue to
follow their occupation. Others will
engage in other avocations. To all,
the organized labor movement ex
tends best wishes and trusts that they
man continue to be identified, in some
capacity or other, with the organized
labor movement.
In'the last half century"of American
history, or since the adoption of the
fourteenth amendment to the federal
constitution, it is doubtful if federal
legislation, social and industrial in
character, of more lasting import to
the masses of the people has been
passed by congress than that enacted
in recent sessions. For the first time
in history a Federal Industrial Com
mission has ignored platitudes and
conventional channels of investiga
tion, probed to the marrow of Ameri
can institutions, social, industrial and
political, in a real effort to find the
cause of Industrial unrest and pre
scribe remedies. After twenty years
of continuous effort. Andrew Furu
seth, international president of the
seamen, has secured federal enact
ment that places the sailor on an
equality with other workmen, makes
of him a free moral agent and not a
mere chattel before the mast. The
section* of the Clayton Anti-Trust Bill
defining the legal rights of labor or-
ganizations, gives the sanction of law
to a principle as vital and far-reach
ing as was the right of petition grant
ed by King John centuries ago under
neath the Charter Oak. The creation
of the Federal Relations Commission
by act of congress and the investiga
tions of that commission, the enact
ment of the "Clayton Bill" and the
"LaPollette Seamen's Act," mark a
milestone in the progress of American
workmen. Revolutionary legislation
is rarely appreciated by those living
in the immediate period, a decade
must pass before the proper perspec
tive can be gained.
Each great crisis in our national
history has developed one man, or
group of men, who with unerring
vision, sensed the national peril and
roused the public conscience. What
amounts to virtual feudalism exists
in many of the industrial sections of
the country. Men's civil, political,
even religious rights subject to the
will of an industrial autocracy, which,
through the unlicensed power of dis
charge, governed at will. The oppor
tunity to own land and cultivate it
profitably lias largely been taken
away from the man of small —even
moderate means. Large fortunes are
Virtually held [n perpetuity by the
lineal descendetits of the founders of
such fortunes, the legatees having no
sense of stewardship nor duty to so
ciety In handling of large incomes.
The opportunity to labor, which is in
itself the right to life, has been denied
to many thousands despite all our
twentieth century progress. A univer
sal unrest exists, smoldering awhile,
then breaking into flame, checked by
this or that remedial reform but nevei
extinguished. There has been in the
past no lack of "investigations." offi
cial and unofficial. The findings ot
some have been wholly or in part sup
pressed by powerful, unseen Influ
ences. Others merely dealt with sur
j face conditions. Labor'and other re
form elements have sounded a warn
ing time and time again but the pub
lie conscience slept on, deeming the
outcry- but the warped vision of dream
ers or the tocsin of professional "agi
tutors."
If we expected that the Federal In
dustrial Relations Commission, creat
|ed by act of congress, would follow
.the conventional part of investigation.
I there was reason for such suspicion
iTo our surprise, perhaps, to the con
stomal ion and confusion of corporate
interests, the commission went to the
very marrow of the Industrial and so
cial life of the nation. Led by Frank
P, Walsh, a man of intrepid moral
courage and with the highly trained
lawyer's power of analysis and Inoui
sition, the Federal Relations Conimis
THE OFFICIAL PAPER OP THE -jffggSx, , EVERETT TRADES COUNCIL.
DEVOTED TO THE INTEREST OP ORGANIZED LABOR.
EVERETT, WASH., FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 1916.
sion plumbed straight to the depths
of industrial unrest. Industrial and
financial corporations are said tc
"have no soul to save, no physical
body upon which to administer pun
ishment for wrongdoing." Cunningly
contrived legal mechanism made them
practically immune from legal retri
bution. But if it be true that no com
bination can long withstand an awak
ened and aroused public conscience,
a day of reckoning cannot be long
delayed for those combinations of cap
ital that have oppressed American
workmen and weakened the entire so
cial fabric. The report of this com
mission is a merciless arraignment of
modern industrial and business meth
ods of our great, corporations in their
relations to employes in particular and
society in general. No phase of in
dustrial or social relations has been
left unprobed by this commission and
remedial measures are suggested. The
report has made a profound impres
sion upon thinking people and is
bound to do incalculable good if giv
en general publicity. It is the "pub
licity" phase of this question that I
would bring to the earnest attention
of this convention. It Is not to be
wondered at if powerful pressure is
brought upon congress to practically
smother this report, probably by cut
ting off the necessary appropriation
for wide dissemination. This conven
tion, speaking for the organized labor
movement of the state of Washington
should urge our representatives in
congress—they ought to need no urg
ing and probably do not—to work arid
vote for adequate funds to send this
report broadcast throughout the land.
Unless this is done, and the masses of
the people given an opportunity to
see American industrial life as this
commission has visualized it. the pa
tient, thorough work of the commis
sion will have gone for nought.
It is a matter for congratulation that
able representatives of the American
labor movement have had a hand in
the conduct of the commission's work,
an achievement of which they may
well be proud.
PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT
AGENCIES
The wiping out of private employ
ment agencies, in so far as charging a
fee to the workman Is concerned, bus
already proven beneficial. Employ-!
ers are noting a steadier condition of !
employment, and one large firm, in
the past depending almost wholly
upon private agencies for help, has
written a letter to one of our munici
pal bureaus with which it now deals,
expressing appreciation of the better
class of workmen furnished. On the
whole there has been little complaint
of violation of this law, although Spo
kane has reported several cases in
which the law was rcumvented by
wily schemers.
A comprehensive -\stem of state
employment offices Is needed and we
should renew our efforts during the
next legislature to si ire such a law.
The federal government, state and
city governments, worsting in con
junction, can entirely replace the pri
vate agencies, do it much more effi
ciently and honestly
SUPREME COURT UPHOLDS
TEACHERS' AGENCY
A recent decision of the supreme
court in the case of Pacific Teachers'
Agency vs. W. V. Tinner, attorney
general, representing the state of
Washington, may tune the effect of
placing many classes of employes
again at the mercy ol private smploj
ment agencies. A history of this suit
and of the conditions causing it is of
moment to us.
There has been In > xistence for sev
eral years in the state of Washington
a teachers' agency i onducted by one
1\ 11. Huntworth It has been the
custom of this agencj to charge s reg
istration fee of two dollars to each
tsacher registering for ■ position
whether one obtained ■ school or not
The teacher further agreed to pay to
the agency five per cent, of the first
year's salary upon obtaining a pos!
tion. Thus if the salary were one
hundred dollars per month, the teach
er would pay to the lu-ency ffiO of the
first year's salary It is claimed that
the great majority of teachers wen
opposed to the agency. Mrs. Jose
pbine Preston took n strong position
against it early in her term and is
joined by other prominent educators
N. O. Showalter. president of the
Cheney Normal School, in a letter tc
State l«ibor Commissioner Olson, sail
this of the teachers' agencies: "These
agencies not only work within oui
state but work without as well. The)
encourage teachers from other states
to come to Washington with the prom
ise that they can get higher salaries
here. Because of this our state has
been so flooded with teachers during
I the last two years that we now have
a surplus of more than one thousand
unemployed according to the best esti
mate that can be had concerning the
matter. The most serious objection
to this comes from the fact that many
untrained teachers were brought who
[depaired because of high qualifica
j tions. These agencies secure the
names and addresses of all the school
officers of the state and indirectly as
Swell as directly they have applica
tions made by various teachers and
then of course secure the commission.
* * * According to the reports given
|by these agencies concerning the num
ber of teachers they are placing every
lyear the revenue derived therefrom
seems to be enormous. 1 do not vouch
[for the truth of their statements, but
it is interesting to figure out the pos
sible revenue according to the number
of appointments agreed to have been
made." In the same letter the writer
significantly says: "It was generally
believed by the teachers of this state
that the law set forth In the last elec
tion would apply to such agencies."
After consultation with Mrs. Pres
ton and the attorney general's office,
the state labor commissioner advised
all county school superintendents that
teachers' paid agencies came within
the law and it was unlawful to collect
an employment fee from teachers.
Suit was brought by the above-named
agency in the superior court of King
county to enjoin the county prosecut
ing attorney and state attorney gen
eral from enforcing Initiative Law No.
S. Prayer for an injunction was de
nied by Judge Mitchell and appeal
was taken to the state supreme court.
On November 6th, 1915, the supreme
court banded down its decision revers
ing the lower court and granting the
injunction. The decision was writ
ten by Judge Chadwirk. concurred in
by Judges Holcomb. Parker and
Mount, .Indues Fullerton. Bills and
Main dissenting. Analyzing the some
what lengthy decision the gist of it
appears to be that in the opinion of
the court teachers are not "workers"
in the meaning of the act. It is held
that the law was intended to protect
the lower forms of manual labor,
those least able to protect themselves
against extortion. The word "work
or" is deemed to apply only to those
who perform manual labor Stress is
laid upon the fact that the title of the
act specifically says "An act to pro
hibit the collection of remuneration
of fees from workers." The framers
of the bill had In mind covering ev
ery class of employment as witness
Sec. " of the act: "It shall be unlaw
ful for any employment agent, his
representative or any other person to
demand or receive either directly or
indirectly from any PERSON seeking
employment or from any PERSON on
his or her behalf, any remuneration
or foe whatsoever for furnishing him
or ber w Ith employment or with in
formation leading thereto." It was
quite generally understood by the vot
trs during the campaign that the law
whs Inti tided to apply to all persons
selling their services, whether mental
or manual, to employers.
C. J. France, associated with Attor
ney Genera! Tanner for the state. ha u
filed an able brief with the supreme
court, asking for a re-hearing of the
case. He armies thai ' word "work"
is generally accepted to Include all
who perform some act of useful ser\
ice to society, whether it be mental
or manual Hs contends further that
it was so generally understood by tht
voters when the initiative bill was
before the people. He asks the court
that the case be sent back to the
lower court for a trial on Its merits
in order that respondents may intro
duce the testimony of educators
prominent in the state school system
tending to show the inherent evil in
teachers employment agencies.
U the decision handed down by the
supreme court in favor of the Pacific
Teachers' Agency stands, there is
grave danger that many other oceu
(Continued on page I)
Buy Your Supplies
Where You Draw
Your Pay!
Labor Against War
and "Preparedness"
Minimum Wage Law Trials
Bring Convictions
By Soester I. Anthon
The members of the Washingtoi
State Federation of Labor are in favo
of preparedness, judging by the num
ber of resolutions dealing directly 01
indirectly with that subject whicl
were passed at the Yakima conven
tion last week, but they are distinctly
not in favor of preparedness by wa>
of greater armament. Rather are they
in favor of the preparedness created
by removing the incentives to war
Moreover, in case there should be
war they wish the fighting to be done
by the capitalistic classes, which are
expected to reap any materia! bene
fits accruing from it. They would
even force the same classes to finance
future wars and preparations for war.
TO SEIZE ALL SUMS OVER $5000
The most drastic preparedness reso
lution of the three passed almost with
out debate on the convention floor.
This was resolution 23, formulated by
E. B. Ault, and providing for the con
fiscation, by the government, of all
bank deposits, stocks and bonds of
over $5000. which should be put at
the disposal of the war department
for use as its chiefs see fit.
The startling resolution opens with
the statement that conscription of the
people of this country as a prepared
ness measure has already been sug
gested and that both Theodore Roose
velt and Woodrow Wilson are in fa
vor of the creation of a citizen sol
diery.
"It is proved by the European war.'
says the resolution, "that the people
go to the battles and the capitalists
stay at home." The text also points
out that the capitalists reap the bene
fit of wars, and in case this country
became involved in war there would
be great danger of the repetition of
the Spanish-American war scandals.
Take Over Factories, Mill*. Railroads
"Now, therefore." says the recom
mendation, "we move thai congress
be requested to enact a law authoriz
ing the war department to seize all
bank deposits Ovef the gum of $5000
and all stocks and bonds over the
value of |5000 held by any individual:
till railroads, factories, mines, mills
and other means of distributing and
producing supplies of war and supplies
to feed the people in case of war, the
same to be put at the disposal of the
war department for use as it sees fit.
There is to be no compensation, this
being an application of the same prin
ciple that demands that the working
men of this country endanger and
sacrifice their lives without compen
sation."
The other radical resolution calls
for a conference of the neutral nations
of the world, to be called by the
president of the United States, to of
fer plans for mediation to the warring
nations of Europe. Like the preced
ing resolution, this one passed with
out discussion "While this nation is
neutral." says the resolution, "it is
not indifferent The war creates a
State of fear and crowds out tin rea!
issues of our nation by creating an
artificial issue of preparcdiu ss
against an unnamable. non-existent
danger
Proper Basis for Enduring Peace
"The president of the United States
should be called upon to convene a
convention from tin neutral nations
to offer mediation among the belliger
entS." The resolution goes even fur
ther and suggests the basis for a per
manent .and durable peace. Included
in these are the evacuation of invad
ed territory, the restoration of such
countries as Alsace-Lorraine to the
nations from which they were wrest
cd. greater autonomy for the citizens
of the European countries, the remov
al of the restrictions against the .lews
which still exist in some countries,
provision for an international arbi
tration council and. possibly the most
radical, the progressive disarmament
of all nations of *ho world.
Breaking off diplomatic relations
with Austria is a good deal like back
Ing into a war through the rear en
trance Boston Transcript.
A STRONG RESOLUTION
Want Neutral Nations Called in Con
ference
ORGEON LABOR
AGAINST PREPAREDNESS
Heads of Organization Urge Delegates
to Take Stand Against Militarism
PORTLAND.— President T. H. Bur
chard of the Oregon State Federation
of Labor, addressing the annual con
vention, warned ther delegates that
they must stand against militarism.
He declared that labor succeeded only
in peace.
Eugene Smith, president of the
Portland Labor Council, spoke direct
ly against preparedness.
A letter from Gus Kramer of Salem,
Ore., urged the abolition of the army
and navy.
COMMISSIONER OLSON
ADDRESSES CONVENTION
MORE RELIEF BY LAW
264 Labor Violations Taken to Court
During Year 1915
Labor Commissioner Olson was in
troduced by President E. P. Marsh as
a •man who has distinctly made good
In a difficult position," and later re
turned the compliment by expressing
the hope that Mr. Marsh would be re
elected to office. Both remarks were
loudly applauded. Mr. Olson gave a
resume of the history of his depart
ment, saying that during the past year
264 labor violations were taken to the
courts, from which 192 convictions
were secured.
He said the employment agency
had resulted in a remarkable length
ening of the tenure of employment, as
it removed the opportunity for split
ting fees between agents and employ
ers. He pointed out the great need of
the laborers for a law for collecting
wages, as many laborers are yearly
mulcted out of small sums Which make
a surprising total
DOES WIN HIS FIGHTS
"We do get convictions," said Com
missioner Olson, who is the idealistic
type of fighter who struggles best
with smiling lips ami eyes -R u t I
notice that we don't get very much
publicity on account of them. Every
time we have a case well, at least
many times our cases are taken un
tler advisement, Then the decision is
slipped out very quietly, so quietly
that it doesn't even make a whisper.
We lose the moral effect on the pub
lic, but we do get the decisions, ordi
narily in our favor."
A GOOD LESSON
Those card men who are so indif
ferent to the development of the la
bor press should take to heart (and
head i Commissioner Olson s state
ment. Why should the daily press,
owned and controlled by and publish
ed in the interest of the employing
class, play up" triumphs of the wage
earning class?
It is clearly up to Labor to create
and maintain a strong press of its
own. in every city and county in ev
ery state in the nation.
Organized labor attains only the
power and material welt-being that it
is willing to fight for and makes the
necessary sacrifices to obtain.
As publicity is one of the most of
fective weapons that can be used in
a righteous cause, it ;s up to the work
ers of Snohomish county to support
The Labor Journal, and to gain for it
a wider circulation.
MESSAGE FROM GOMPERS
At the opening or the convention a
message from Samuel Gompers. presi
dent of the American Federation of
Labor, was read In this. President
Gompers urged a strong fitmt against
the referendum anti-picketing bill,
which he declared "constitutes a seri
ous menace to labor The employers
have the greater power ami control
the financial situation. The picketing
system is almost tlie only way the
wage-earrrars have to secure a bearing
in an industrial dispute. Prohibiting
persons from carrying banners takes
ayvay from the labor men their most
eftective means of getting facts be
jfore the public. Organised labor
ShOttld use all its efforts to defeat the
proposed measure."
No. 49
