| 0 < 77* piiiiii|[i|i|i|ii||iij!ii || i|! l |j|fi^iliumbibhf^^
ffoJ77YI /Q\ WtVwSV/S\ vf IT (I
, IL Doi
I.iAT.N I II \ I.AK, .No, 32
t ROT GAME.
'('(n re have been basket ball games
li,d basket ball games played in Oro
iiil. with all Ha variations of good.
Hid and indifferent, but no game has
\ii boon staged pros-ossing so many
prills as Dial ot last Friday evening
fheu tin Okanogan huskies went down
a dele .i before the Oroville bantams,
legrettahli lo state only a compara
j\el\ i w town people were present
0 i in ft rage the boy s and witness a
..me Hi.ii bad ihiiigs iu it to start the
~t )* ll iuil jumping every minute of
1 - . -ion. Those wlu> were present
~i tin mil value of their money, and
i (hey did not -ay so in words they
i . i.iinlj gave ample evidence of that
iml ol aiisfaelion in a continuous
( ar that miidi' the concrete walls of
he gym laiii vibrate. It was the most
xciting contest ever seen in Oroviße,
ml the way the locals snatched vic
i, y out of what promised to be either
i feat or a nerve racking close score,
lamps Hie present high school team
s one of the best that the high school
as ever possessed. Among the toys
Dtlividual records are subserved to
iau ral team work, and the lads throw
heir whole souls, skill, agility and
i sources into the one object in view,
nd that is, winning. Basket ball is
liferent from football in the respect
bat brawn is the potential element
hat enters into success in the latter,
ivliilc agility, a keen eye and head
vork makes for die winning score in
lie former. Hence size and muscle are
lot always an assurance oT a winning
inskct ball team.
The first half of the game Friday
‘vening was as pretty an exhibition
if basket ball as could be seen any
where. The teams at die outset seemed
bo equally matched that any kind ol
ii duke might win or lose die game.
From the jump oft the playing was fast
ami furious, and Ihe score board indi
cated first one side then the other in
the lead by a very small margin. The
ball was in constant motion, eager
youths hotfooted it back and forth,
matting, clawing, scrapping, wrigg-,
ling out of Teach ttf duocrmlneii op
ponents, tossing for baskets with
nore or less accuracy, locked in any
thing but loving embraces when not
chasing the bounding or flying sphere,
itul above the tangled gladiators the
crazy inhabitants ot die gallery were
m their feet making the welkin and
■verydiing else in the neighborhood
airly ring with acclaims of satistac
ion.
The referee was generous in over
ooking palpable fouls, and during the
lest canto Oroville was charged up
with only one, and Okanogan with
Bix. Okanogan failed to score on fouls
while McMahan made three ringers.
In the inning Orovi'le missed a num
yer of chances to score, while Okano
gan also had much trouble finding the
jasket, although their chances were
much fewer. When time w r as called,
baiting an end lo this exciting session
Oroville had 15 points to the good,
with Okanogan close aboard witli I I,
caving the natural impresison that it
■\ as anybody’s game.
The backers of the locals had vis
uns of defeat lor their favorites at.
he expiration of the first half and
here was no great joy in circulation
>thc rthan the exllaration naturally
routed by a close contest, but those
visions speedily evaporated when the
second half started, for right off tie
reel. Cole, who had had his sights ad
justed, commenced shooting basket
a.ter basket from any and every an
gle, having able assistance from 1.13
Mahan. The jig was evidently up, us
Okanogan had wilted, and had ro
(Stance to increase the score owing to
the ti rco defense the Oroville team
pm up. The locals showed more snap,
belter staying qualities, fiercer offen
sive than their beefy opponents, who
were evidently winded by the strain
of the first chapter. The ball was kept
in Oroville territory very largely, as
is indicated by the fact that Okanogan
made but one basket in the second
half and could score but once on fouls
in four trials. As the score grew for
the locals pandemonium broke loose
on the upper floor, and those who
turned their lungs inside out were
justified in straining those useful 01-
gans. In the second half, Oroville pil
ed tip twenty-two points, winning by
the total score of 37 to 17.
For Okanogan. Raines made 3 goals,
Greenwood i, Moss 1, and Graham I
oa foul. F< r Oroville Cole attached '.I
goals, McJi. bun 3, Hair 2. and Mi -
Mahan scored 7 points on fouls, mak
ing the great record of seven ringers
out of ten trials. Every man on holh
teams did his part in the game and
both the Oroville substitutes tried out
proved of equal metal to the regulars.
Considering the new and stricter rules
comparatively few fouls were made,
and those more through accident than
hut ntlonal interference, Oroville being
guilty of five and Okanogan ten. The
following was the line i p of the play -
ers;
Orotic- Okanogan
Cole c Moss
Bair rf Baines
McMahan l.f. Greenwood
Ashby r.jr. Sheerer
Ford 1.-;. Baines
Dallam Sub. Wenuer
Fuller Sub. Rich
Referee, Robert Hogeis, Molson
umpire, Beverley Bowel); time keeper,
C. C. Hedger; scorers. Boone and
Bovee.
ituo ll.e game a dunce was given
In honor of the visitors by the high
school pupils In lion -c of the visitors,
which, as a matter of course, proved
lo be a very pleasant finale to ihe even
ing's entertainment.
The Friday night game will be the
last on the home grounds for several
weeks.
The locals go to Republic today to
play a return gu"«e with the high
school team of that place.
Referee Rogers gave perfect suli.t
i'aciiou and the ah.elite of all wrang
ling over decisions was a very pleas
ant feature.
When practicing prior lo the game
the Okanogan lads looked like glams
as compared with their opponents, and
the Impression prevailed generally
that Oroville was due for a trouncing.
But how different-was it in the morn
ing.
The Okanogan team is made up of
a genial and pleasant lot of young
men. They took their lacing in the
spirit of real high school sports. If
there were any sore spots they did not
come to the surface. With all their
size and weight they played a clean
game and did no intentional roughing.
Spectators expected to see them fairly
walk over the home bunch, but the vis
itors did not abuse their strength and
in what little roughing there was done
honors were even.
Big Moose Moss was everlastingly
getting in the way of the ball, but none
of his lighter opponents hesitated la
tackle him at every opportunity, and
in consequence ids falls were numer
ous.
Prof. Davis can well feel proud of
his aggregation. He has seven or eight
rattling good players and in making
up a team it Is difficult select, us
thero is mighty little choice as to abil
ity.
McMahan was much more proficient
handling fouls than in the Republic
game, which helped to pad the score.
There was much disappointment on
account of tile meagre attendance. The
high school athletic association de
serves a far better patronage from the
people of Orovllle than they are re
ceiving. There could bo no excuse on
this occasion on account of weather,
for the going was good. The boys
should be encouraged at every oppor
tunity and the way to encourage them
is to get, out at the games, root and
cheerfully contribute the small amount
of admittance. There is considerable
expense to be met in carrying out a
higli school schedule of games, be the
games what they may, and the only
source of income is from the door re
ceipts of the games. The local school
lias always had teams worthy of sup
port, hi' they football or basket ball,
and the present basket ball team is as
good as any the school has ever pro
duced. Tile next time a game is played
here every resident of the place should
invest in a ticket, even if they do not
attend.
Owing to the schedule of train ser
vice the Okanogan team had to come
up Thursday night and remain in town
all day Friday, returning home Satur
day morning.
Those who failed to turn out Friday
night arc now regretting their mis
take They missed a kind of game they
may never be able to see again. The
game was the talk of the town Satur
day and those who were not there were
made to feel bad by the glowing ac
count of the contest that was on the
tongue of'all who wore so fortunate
as to he present.
—• ►
V IIIIIKF THAW.
The long expected January thaw ar
rived last Saturday, but it was one of
(he briefest January thaws this coun
try has ever experienced. Soft weather
was on in earnest while it lasted.
Karly Saturday morning a regular old
fashioned chinook with a vigorous
punch behind it, blew in, reducing the
snow and ice to liquid with astonish
ing rapidity. Puddles, ponds and lakes
formed everywhere a depression ex
isted and the gutters in town were
qyertaxcd in carrying off the flood.
This was especially the case Sunday
morning when a number of cellars on
Main street were threatened with in
undation. Creeks became torrents and
dry gulches creeks, and it looked is
though the backbone of the winter was
dislocated. About four o’clock Sunday
afternoon, in the midst of the flood
menace, the wind suddenly veered to
the north and the mercury commenced
sliding down with surprising speed.
Within ten minutes scums of ice were
forming on the water and before Mon
day morning everything was frozen up
as tight as a drum. Winter has taken
a fresh grip and the birds of spring
again seem remote.
OROVILLE, WASHINGTON, JANUARY 28, 1916.
V BELIEVER l> OKANOGAN.
Dr. Jacob May, of Bridgeport, Conu.,
who has been the steam behind the
Mineral Hill mine, situated near Con
conully, for over 20 years, spent Sun
day in Oroville visiting among friends
he has made during his various trips
lo Okanogan since becoming interest
ed in the country. Ur. May has put a
i omfortable fortune in the Mineral
Hill. Bo lung us his private capital held
out he did a vast amount of work, and
in the progress of that work much ex
cellent mineral was encountered in
the deep underground workings. But
of late years bis resources have be
come limited, and explorations at the
mine have become almost entirely sus
pended. With a vast sum ot his own
money tied up in the mine, and the
public cautious about investing in
mining securities, Ur. May found it
impossible to raise funds for contin
uing investigations, and for some years
lie lias shouldered worries that would
have discouraged any man of less faith
and determination, it at last to
such a pass that the mine hod to be
sold m sheriff sale lo meet outstand
ing obligations. The sale took place
Saturday, and in order to protect hlm
aclf Ur. May was compelled to bid in
ilie property, and is now the sole
owner.
What Ur. May’s future intentions
are is not known, but It stands to reas
on, considering his past record, that
he is not going to permit the property
to remain continuously idle it it Is
within the bounds of possibility to
arrange to resume operations. And it
iu not a property that should be aban
doned. Several hundreds of thousands
of dollars have been spent sinking and
driving tunnels ou the group, and in
Hie process of Hiis extensive explora
tion some fourteen ledges have been
encountered, all ot them carrying
strong values. It would be a misfor
tune to the country if the Mineral
Hill mine should remain shut down
indefinitely, for from every token
above and under ground this property
-j£„tbe making of a mine if there Is a
mine to be made in that district, and
there are going to be a number of
them. So far back as a dozen or more
ypars ago the writer had an oppor
tunity to examine the Mineral Hill
workings, and it was not necessary
for a man to be an export to recognize
i lie evidence ot the presence of ore, and
ore in large quantities. The claims are
well situated for easy development,
and I lie fact that ore is present at a
depth of 1000 feet should convince any
one that it is in quantities sufficient,
to produce tor a long period of time.
In the old days the problem of trans
portion was a serious handicap to
the working of mines in the Concon
ully district, but witli a railroad a
few miles away down the Okanogan
valley transportation is now more easy
of access. The fact that Arlington mine
at the old Ruby camp, has been ship
ping ore for months, and the ship
ments must bring u profit or they
would not be continued, shows that if
the Mineral Hllfc mine is ever .again
put in commission the same route for
shipments is open.
Dr. May expects to remain on the
coast for a month or oix weeks longer,
lie will not spend all of his time at
tlie mine, as lie contemplates making
a trip to southern California for re
creation and business combined, re
luming to the Okanogan before going
back to his eastern home. Those who
have the pleasure of knowing the
sturdy, resourceful and always affa
ble gentleman would be delighted to
see him make the Mineral Hill mine a
source of groat profit, not only be
cause he has earned a liberal return
upon his persistency and consistency
ie holding on in the face of so many
disappointments and against the urg
ent advice of many of his aequaln
tences and associates, but for the loy
alty that lie lias always shown to the
Okanogan, not only by acts, but by
outspoken words of praise and de
fense on all occasions when the min
ing possibilities of the country have
been called into question at home or
abroad. The Okanogan never had a
more staunch and earnest advocate
and supporter that Dr. Jacob May.
•***- -
CHK'KKM IMMVKR.
Saturday evening, February 5, is the
date set for the chicken dinner to bn
served by the lady teachers and girls
of the High School for the benefit of
tlie High School Athletic association.
The menu will have as a foundation,
chicken, mashed potatoes, salid, apple
pie and coffee. The complete menu will
be announced next week. From past
experience the people of Oroville know
that anything in the “eats" line pre
pared and served by the fair co-eds of
the high school, means a rare treat. As
the cause is a worthy one and the
menu enticing, the efforts of the young
ladies should be liberally rewarded.
The library building is the place. Sat
urday evening. February at 5 o'clock
is the time. The girls will be on the Job.
NEED OF LIVE COMMERCIAL CLUB.
It is coming to be generally recog
nized that a well organized working
body, such as a commercial club,
standing between the people and the
local government, and the local and
outside business world is absolutely
necessary to the progress and advance
ment of the community.
Local officials usually work without
pay, gr secure such small compensa
tion that they cannot afford to do more
than what the law requires, hence the
need qf an organization to aid in carry
ing oat the various enterprises which
make for the betterment of the local
ity.
In this day of keen competition be
tween communities, preparedness and
initiative are necessary to success,
and tjhe community which lies dor
mant need not expect to gain in civic
betterment, or enjoy its share ot
prosperity, it is therefore necessary
that d well oiganizcd body of esraest
workers band themselves together to
ca ryjout plans for civic, commercial
and Industrial advancement of our
community.
We should have faith in ou- own
community. You cannot expect o il
siders to buy in your community un
less you have faith in it and will spank
a word in its favor. Shame on the poor
knocker. No man can take Hold of the
work of helping boost for his town
and community without becoming a
1; Her citizen, a broader minded man,
and a more progressive busines.- man.
!f your town or community, Is not
worth boosting for it is not worth liv
ing in. Yon had bette • move out. We
sic better off without you. Would you
not rather be listed by your fellow cit
izens ns a booster than as a knockei ’’
If you are not working with the other
business men to make >our town a bet
ter place in which to live you arc to a
certain extent a community parasite.
There are many thing* that cuu be
dene by organized effort that cannot
he done single handed, in union there
is strength. The commercial club can
develop life and activity in a com
muriify, ft can start something. People
like to have something doing. It is
good advertising for a town to keep
something happening to bring people
together where they can exchange
Ideas. Results will follow.
SUBSCRIBER
terrible accident.
Saturday morning a snow slide near
Corea, on the summit of the Cascades,
swept down on a stalled Great North
ern passenger train, wrecking several
cars, killing eight passengers and
injuring six others. This accident oc
curred near the scene of the Welllng
'on disaster several years ago, in
which 93 lives were lost when an ava
lanche hurried a passenger train. In
that part of the Cascade mountains
file Great Northern people have always
experienced great difficulty in keep
ing the track clear in winter, and it
lias always been considered a danger
ous route at this season of the year.
The track clings to the sides of pre
cipitous mountains, and in the winter
the danger of slides, owing to the ex
tremely heavy snow fall, is ever pres
ent. Miles of snow sheds protect the
track, but the most substantial con
crete structures sometimes give way
before the irrisistable rush of the ava
lanche. The accident Saturday was
shocking in the extreme, but it might
have been worse, as a number of tra
ders had very narrow escapes. The
result of these repeated acldents ou
the Cascade division will end in mak
ing.the road through Orovllle the main
traveled transcontinental line when it
is once finished and in operation to the
coast, which will probably be next
summer.
COOKED.FOOD SALK.
The ladies of the Episcopal Guild
will hold a cooked food sale in the va
cant, store room, Main street front, of
the Hotel de Grubb, Saturday after
noon at 2 o’clock. A variety of food
stuffs, such as cuke, pies, bread rolls,
and other toothsome articles of con
sumption that makes the dining table
attractive to the hungry, will be offer
ed for sale. The wares will be of home
cooking, by home cooks who know how
to cook, and hence will be dainty as
well as appealing to the palate. Save
the trouble of Sunday cooking by go
ing to this sale and laying in a supply
of good things.
IMPORTANT TRANSFERS.
Wednesday Joe Hein purchased from
the Union Title and Trust Company,
lots 7 and 8. block 44, Oroville, the
consideration being $7,500, These lots
are on Main street, and are occupied
by the Crescent Cafe and Hart & Co. s
ii.eat market, two of the best inside
lots in th beusiness part of town. It
is one of the largest transfers of busi
ness property that has been made in
Oroville for several years, and an en
couraging indication of real estate ac-
tlvity for the new year. It was a splen
did, good buy, too, for the property is
certain to enhance iu value. Mr. Hein
is rather noncommittal as to his Inten
tions, hut the chances are that a new
brick block will soon take the place
of the frame structures.
Wednesday the Union Title and
trust Co., tmustered to tire First Nat
ional bank lots 12 and 13, block 30, the
consideration being $3,500. These lots
are at the northwest corner of Main
street and First avenue, one of the
(holiest locations of the business sec
tion. it is possible that the bank will
decorate the lots with a handsome
building constructed especially for
banking purposes in the near future.
O. C. Oustrom, of Molsou, was in
town Monday.
Tom Stanton has a paraphrase on
the old nursery rhyme: "Little drops
of water, little grains of sand, make
Hie mighty ocean and the mighty
laud,” which is especially applicable
to the territory under the irrigation
system. Mr. Stanton’s version is “Lit
tle drops of water on little grains of
sand, makes a mighty difference In
ilie price of lard.”
l.eu Elsle has had the building at the
corner of Railroad avenue and Main
street which he occupies as a billiard
hall very much improved by putting
in large windows on the Main str’eet
side. Mr. Elsie now lias a very neat
and comfortable place of business, and
from tlie way the ivories are con
stantly clicking billiards are evidenlty
becoming a popular game.
From the flooded streets Sunday
and the saving of cellars from inunda
tion only by the most strenuous ef
forts, it is evident that a mistake was
made iu the size of Hie culverts that
were put in at the time of the grade
work, lo carry off the water from the
surface. Had a heavy rain accompan
ied the chinook much damage would
have resulted from flood water.
W. B. McChesuey reports the cutting
of another ore tody in the Ivanhoe
mine, Saturday, the extent of which
was not yet known when he loft the
mine Monday. The Ivanhoe is certain
ly proving a wonder by the showing of
so much ore at a great depth, and the
question of paying dividends depends
on how soon provisions can be made
for extracting and treating the ore.
Mrs. George Bartell spent several
days at Wenatchee during the past
week. She attended the performance
of the "Girl from Nowhere," in that
city, and teports that, the house was
crowded. The World says that it is
the best road show that has appeared
in Wenatchee for many a day. The
company is to return here in about
six weeks, and will give “Floradora.”
Win. Hailey, one of the workmen on
the big siphon, met with a painful ac
cident Monday morning. He was driv
ing a wagon loaded with the iron
1 oops used to strengthen the wooden
pipes when he was thrown out and
became tangled up in his load of
freight. He was severely lacerated
about the face and head, and was un
conscious for an hour. Fortunately his
hurts were mainly superficial and he
will soon be out of the hospital.
Saturday was a rough day as to
weather for the opening of the Oro
vllle Commercial company’s cleanup
sale, as there was so nnjeh moisture
overhead and underfoot that people
could not get around. For all of the
wet blockade the public fell for the
sugar special and there was suffi
cient saccharine stuff disposed of to
sweeten the town for a long time to
come.
Last Friday a young lady stopped
over in Orovllle on her way from Med
ley to Colville, and while in town hud
the misfortune to lose a gold watch
ou the street. The watch was a pre
cut from her father, and on that ac
count she prized it very highly. The
finder would confer a great favor on
the young lady and at the same time
receive a liberal reward by leaving
the watch at tiiis office.
This office acknowledges a very
pleasant call from H. L. Mooney, pub
lisher of the Chesaw News, who stop
lied over in Oroville Tuesday night on
bis way to Okanogan. Mr. Mooney
brings the encouraging word that there
is considerable activity in the mining
industry in his neighborhood, and
two mines are now shipping ore to
smelters with ths prospects that oth
ers will be shipping by spring. It has
long been recognized that there are
numerous excellent mining properties
around Chesaw. Indeed a vast amount
of development work has bed done in
that vicinity for years, and much high
grade ore exposed. The same trouble
has existed in that district that has
made mining a failure in other districts
in the county, and that is mismanage
ment. With the inauguration of syste
matic mining by men who know how,
paying mines will follow- around Che
saw. May Mr. Mooney, who has been
loyal to the country, come in for a fair
share of prosperity when that happy
condition comes about.
COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
Minutes of the meeting of the town
council of Orovllle. Washington, Janu
ary 24. 1916.
(’resent. Mayor Samson, Council -
men Beale. Smith, Frlls and Barteil.
Minutes of the previous meeting
read and approved as read.
Letter from insurance surveyor In
regard to fire protection of the town
pump house, recommending certain
changes to be made; the clerk was in
structed to see that the changes were
made as soon as possible. The marshal
was instructed to notify all keepers of
amusement parlors that the ordinance
in regard to gambling will be strictly
inforced. An ordinance in regard to
the keeping of pool and card roms was
read and motion was made and carried
that the ordinance pass its first and
second reading and that the clerk
see that the parties interested In this
ordinance be notified that if they have
any objection to appear at the next
regular meeting of the council.
The clerk was instructed to see Mr.
Hedger in regard to an electric device
lor the thawing of water pipes.
On motion the council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSE, Clerk.
TO WEAR THE BIG 0.
A most interesting program wm ren
dered in the auditorium of the high
school Wednesday afternoon when the
athletic letter was awarded to four
teen members of the 1915 high school
foot ball team. Addresses were deliver
ed by Mayor J. F. Samson, R. F. Hoff
mark, Chas. F. Sigrist and Dr. D. H.
Lewis, The presentation speech was
made by Prof. F. B. Nance. Fourteen
lads were entitled to the honor. They
are: Aubrey McMahan, Chas. Cole,
Lawrence Dallam, Glen Carrel, Warren
Mallory, Clyde Bodey, Louis Bovee,
Merlin Vincent, Harlan Fuller, Win
fred Bair, Frank Ford, Garland Ethel,
Elbert Carrel and Joe Ashby. It was
a proud day for the boys who have so
well won the honor and a most enjoy
able event to all those present who
were proud of the school that could
boast of such a line lot of clean, loyal
worthy young men. Owing to a lack
ot space and the presentation coming
so late In the week, this paper Is un
able to give fuller particulars of the
Important event.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Sunday school at XO a. m. You need
it and it needs you. Set your alarm
clock one hour earlier. Preaching
morning and evening. Morning service
at IX o’clock. Subject of sermon, “A
Woman’s Confession of Faith.” A
special musical feature of this service
will bo a vocal solo by Miss Graves.
Evening service at 7:30. At this service
the pastor will give an address on
"What is the matter with Oroville?”
Come early and join in a good live
song service.
We give you a warm-hearted invi
tation to come and enjoy all our ser
vices.
A. W. BOND, Pastor.
TRINITY EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
(Rev, G. H. Severance, Vicar.)
Sunday school at 12. There will be
no regular services on Sunday.
Mrs. Robert Evans gave a dancing
party in the library building Wednes
day evening for her brother, Perry
Blackler, who leaves Saturday for Se
attle, where he will enter the Univer
sity and take a course in civil engin
eering.
David McDaniel, an old time resident
of N’ighthawk, has taken over the
Peerless lodging house and will con
duct it in the future. The premises
have been cleaned up and lodgers will
find it a comfortable as well as con
venient stopping place.
The Oroville steam laundry is keep
ing strictly up to date in the way of
equipment. Mr, Prentice has just in
stalled a new washer and extracator,
which enables him to do more and bet
ter work. The local laundry is one of
the best plants of the kind in any
small town in the state, and few of the
larger cities can boast of any better.
Mr. Prentice is sparing no pains to
turn out satisfactory work.
Unite a well attended meeting was
held Tuesday of those interested in
roads, called for the purpose of con
sidering the proposition of dividing
the county up into small road districts,
under the provisions of a new road
law. G. I. Cole was selected as chair
man, and N. C. Falkner as secretary.
The proposition was pretty thoroughly
discussed and it was the consensus of
opinion that the present system of road
supervision should be retained. The
county commissioners take this matter
up at a meeting to be held February
8, and the following committee was
appointed to attend the meeting: O.
I. Cole, H. 11. Granger, R. S. Hersh
berger, W. S. Chase. W, J. DeMercham
and J F. Samson,
11.50 PER TEAR
