KLY
IB UN
THE TRIBUNE'S CIRCULA
TION IS THE LARGEST IN
CAPE GIRARDEAU. : : :
THE TRIBUNE COVERS
SOUTHEAST MISSOURI
LIKE THE DEW. : : : :
A KEV SPAPER THAT PRINTS ALL THE NEWS THAT'S FIT TO PRINT AND PRINTS IT FIRST
VOL. XV. AND THE CAPE COUNTY HERALD, CAPE GIRARDEAU, MISSOURI, JANUARY 28, 1916.
NUMBER 3.
CAPE STUDENT IS HOUSE OF LORDS
Scene On The Tigris River Where The
British And The Turks Are In Battle
TfffvWFP
FREED OF WIFE
NEGLECTCHARGE
Got. Major Refuses to Send
Norvell Moore to Colorado
To Face Charge.
PASSES BILL TO
MAKE MEN FIGHT
AFT
LA
OW
O.K
THE
TRIE
UNEP
WIFE IN WEST IN
QUEST OF HEALTH
Attorney For Cape Youth Shows
He Supports Helpmeet
And Child.
Special dispatch to The Tribune.
Jefferson City, Mo., Jan. 26 Gov.
Major announced today that he had re
fused the requisition of the Governor
of Colorado for the return of Norvell
Moore ,a student at the Normal School
in Cape Girardeau, who was accused
by the Colorado officials of having de
serted his wife, who is now in Co'o
rado Springs.
The sheriff of Colorado Spring:-, z..X
week wired a requebt to Sheriff Su in
mere of Cape Girardeau County, to
arrest young Moore, on a charge of
failing to support his wife and three-year-old
daughter. Moore was placed
under arrest and taken from Cape
Girardeau to Jackson, where he was
locked up, but later released on bond.
Gov. George A. Carlson of Colorado
then asked Gov. Major to grant the re
turn of Moore to the state of Colorado.
W. T. Rutherford, Assistant Attorney
General, appeared before Gov. Major
last Saturday and argued in favor of
granting the requisition. Harry E.
Alexander, of Cape Girardeau, appear
ed befor3 the executive in behalf of
the young man.
Mr. Alexander told Gov. Major that
Mrs. Moore v;a-. in Colorado Springs
for her health, and that her husband
had not attempted to desert her. He
has forwarded money to Mrs. Moore
each month, Attorney Alexander told
the Governor.
The Governor listened to the argu
ments and then took the case under
ftdvlsement. While he intimated to
the attorneys in the case that he did
not believe young Moore had attempt
ed to neglect his wife, he reserved his
official opinion until today. He an
nounced this afternoon that he will
not turn the Cape Girardeauan over to
the Colorado officials.
Norvell Moore is a son of Mr. and
Mrs. Lee Roy Moore, of 233 North
Henderson avenue, Cape Girardeau.
The young man has been married for
about four years. His daughter is
now three years old. The child is with
iU mother, who has been in Colorado
for about one year. She suffered
from hmg trouble and went west to
regain her health. She is described
as being exceedingly pretty.
Every effort has been made to keep
the story of the Moore wrangle quiet.
Attorney Alexander, while in this city
to appear before the Governor, was
asked for a statement in defense of his
client, but he refused to discuss the
case. The Governor broke the silence
today after he had notified the Govern
or of Colorado that the request for a
requisition had been denied.
ENTERTAINS WITH DINNER.
Mrs. Wilson Seibert of St. Louis is
Gurtt at Behrens Home.
Mr. and Mrs. A. P. Behrens last
night entertained with a dinner at
their home on North Fountain street
in honor of Mrs. Wilson Seibert, of
St. Louis, formerly of the Cape, who
is visiting friends here this week.
Those who were guests were: Mrs.
Edward L. Drum, Miss Hazel Harris
on, Miss Blanch Harrell, Miss Alice
Albert, Miss Birdie Adams, Miss Em
ma Wilson, Miss May Green, Miss
Christine Wheeler and Miss Marybelle
Priest.
PEACE DISTURBER FINED $1.
Judge Wilier Hears Grovcr Prim Head
Guilty to Woman's Charge.
On a charge of disturbing the peace,
Grover Prim, Tuesday evening appear
ed before Judge W. H. Wilier, pleaded
guilty and received a fine of $1 and
costs. The charge of peace disturb
ance was brought by Eva Seward.
The woman asserted that the peace
disturbance took place Monday at her
home in North Cape back of the Wash
ington School. Prim was given time
in which to raise the money with
which to pay his fine.
Conscription Measure is now
Sent To The King For
His Signature.
FRANCE TO ASSIST
IN BLOCKADE PLAN
Allies Say They Will Make New
Effort To Keep Supplies
From Germans.
Special to The Tribune.
London, Jan. 2. The Military Ser
vice bill, providing for compulsory
service in the British army, passed its
third reading in the House of Lords to
night. The measure now goes to the
King for 'tis signature, after which it
v.;':! !r in effect, and all Englishmen
able to s"n-? in the r.rmy may be or
dered into servic.
London, Jan. 2C. France will assist
England hereafter in making the
blockade of Germany morp effective.
This announcement was made today in
connection with s debate in the House
of Commons on the Sherley Keens res
olution, demanding a more stringent
action to prevent trade between neu
trals and Germany.
Sir Edward Grey, the Foreign Sec
retary, stated that the government was
not ready to adopt an absolute block
ade against Germany. It became evi
dent by his remaks that England
fears to arouse the further antagonism
of neutrals which already has been
brought to an unpleasant pitch by
England's examination of foreign
mails, especially those coming to and
from the United States.
The Hauge, Jan. 26. A royal decree
was issued today forbidding the future
exportation of rubber. Its aim v.ns to
cut off exports to Germany. Great
Britain, it is understood, will reeip-,
roc-ato by ordering no further interfer
ence with shipments of lubber to Hol
land. GIRL PATIENT TO CO
TO FARMINGTON HOSPITAL
Freddie Howard Suffers Relapse of
Malady Caused by Fall Sustain
ed at Home Last Summer.
Following an illness which began
last summer, when she suffered a fall
and which in tiie last few days has
become serious, Miss Freddie Howard,
17-year-old daughter of Mrs. Hanna
Howard, ampa memler of a prominent
family, living west of Jackson, today
will be removed to the state hospital
at Farmington, a member of the fam
ily announced yesterday.
Miss Howard last summer was se
riously ill with an attack of typhoid
fever. She recovered from the fever
and while she was regaining her
strength, she sustained a fall in her
home a few miles west of Jackson on
the family farm.
She had gone to answer a call upon
the. telephone and was speaking
through the transmitter, when she be
came ill suddenly and collapsed. In
the fall, she struck her head upon
something and it is believed by physi
cians that the blow upon her head,
caused an injury that has caused a
temporary derangement of her mind.
She apparently had recovered from
the illness that followed, but a few
days ago, again was seized and it be
came necessary to have her removed to
the hospital.
She will bo accompanied to Farm
ington by a brother, Bern Howard,
and a cousin, Evra Howard. Her
father has been dead for about 12
years.
SCHOOL BOARD GETS
ANNUAL PIN-MONEY
Collctor Caldwell Turns over Check for
$29,748.59 to Secretary Bowman
on One Pink Paper.
The Board of Education the other
day received its annua! pin-money, a
stipend amounting to S29.478.59, from
County Collector J. F. Caldwell.
The money was conveyed to the sec
retary of the Board. L. L. Bowman, in
one check and it will bear the most of
the expenses of the Cape's public
school system for the ensuing year.
The $1.50 school tax is divided to take
care of diffeernt parts of the Board's
expense.
A third of the money is devoted to a
View of Kut-el-Amara, on the Tigris, where the British Mesopotamia forces under Geueral Townshend have
been having fierce conflicts with the Turks.
CHARLES BLATTNER
IS SERIOUSLY ILLiRheumatismCure
Banker, Farmer And Fair Head
Is Confined To Home With
Bronchitis.
Charles Blattner, director in two
banks, president of the Fair Associa
tion, successful farmer and for many
years a resident of Cape County, is se
riously ill at his home on th Illoom
field road with a severe attac k of bron
chitis. Mr. Blattner for two days has been
confined to his home and efforts have
been made by members of his family
as well as the physician attending him,
to keep him in bed. Mr. Blattner has
refused to remain in bed and it has
been with considerable difficulty that
for th last two days lie has been kept
indoors, despite thp fact that for the
four days preceding, he became stead
ily worse, when he went out in the
weather.
Mr. Blattner ?r-verai day3 ago con
tracted the ailment but con
tinued to make his daily trips to the
Cape. The cold was followed by an
attack of the grip.
He attempted to wear the grip off
! by continued activity and it was not
unti! a week ago that he consulted a
physician about his case. His malady
was diagnosed as bronchitis.
He had high fever, which was
accompanied by a cough and severe
cold. He was advised to remain at
'home, but for four days, he continued
i to make his trips to the Cape and vis
ited at the doctor's office in person.
Each day, he became worse and
Tuesday, he was not permitted to leave
the house. Yesterday the doctor was
I summoned and Mr. Blattner's condi
tion was considered grave.
It was said that he was in danger
I of being ill for a long time. Yester
day afternoon members of the family
declared that Mr. Blattner had com
menced to improve. His condition
still was serious, however.
Mr. Blattner ha 1 made his plans
some time ago to move from his old
! homestead on the Bloomtield road a
mile west of town into the Cape to
occupy the apartment at Good Hope
and South Frederick streets, where he
reecntly erected a new two story brick
building.
His homestead in the country is
known throughout the county as sit
uated near one of the most beautiful
tracts of land in this part of the state,
the old fairgrounds.
sinking and intertct fund on bonds
that have been issued with which
school buildings have been erected.
The Board has a bond issue? of ?129,
500. The remaining two-thirds is devoted
to the maintenance of the school sys
tem. The Board of Education will hold its
January meeting tomorrow night.
Irish Potato
Is
Says Gus Boerkle
Motorman Drove Pains from
Feet with Ra v Spud when
Medicines Failed Potato
Petrifies In Pocket.
Gus Boerkle, motorman for the
street car company, has found a cure
for rheumatism. It is the Irish pota
to! For several years Boerkle suffered
from rheumatism in his feet. He
drank Teruna, Wine of Cardui and
rubbed Omega oil up and down his
shanks, but his feet continued to hurt
liim. He took his troubles to A. -M.
Tinsley, manager of the street car
company, who insinuated that Boerk
le's feet had taken the second growth.
Boerkle went back to his street
car determined to take no other em
ploye or official of the street car com
pany into lu's confidence, but he prom
ised himself he would not abandon ins
search until a cure for rheumatism had
been discovered.
One morning, early last May, he was
waddling about the front end of his
car and his feet were swelled up like
cushions. A passenger stood on the
front platform for a few moments and
watched the motorman suffer.
"You must have two collapsed
arches in your feet," he suggested to
Boerkle.
"Nope," replied the motorman, "I've
got rheumatism."
"I can cure rheumatism in twenty
four hours," the stranger said.
Boerkle applied the brakes and
brought the car to a stop. "What's
that you're handing me?" he asked.
"I can cure rheumatism before
breakfast,' 'he repeated.
"Cure me quick," chirped the motor
man. This is what he said to Boerkle:
"When you go home today, pick
out an Irish potato about the size of a
silver dollar. Place it in your left
trouser pocket, and keep it there all
the time. It will cure your rheuma
tism and will keep you well in the
future."
Boerkle followed the instructions.
The following morning when he
awoke, the pain had left his feet and
his toes had not felt so good since
he was a barefoot boy.
"By golly, it feels good to be able
to walk on two real feet again," re
marked Boerkle to Pat. W. Whaler., a
fellow motorman.
Last night he informed The Tribune
that he had never suffered from rheu
matics since. He pulled the Irish po
tato from his pocket as evidence to
support his contention that it was to
rheumatism what the "mad stone" is
to a dog bite.
The potato is as flat as a pancake
and has petlified. Mr. Boerkle an
nounced last night that he wouldn't
ft . r?
I
BLIZZARD IS DUE
HERE BY SATURDAY
Zero Weather Is Predicted For
Brief Stay River Ntars
Flood Stage.
A blizzard is due to roach C ape Gir
ardeau, either tomorrow night or Sat
urday morning, according to reports
from the north. The temperature
wi'.l drop from fummT heat to the
zero mark, the dispatch says.
The extreme northern part of the
United Stute.s is now in the throes of a
blizzard, accompani-'d by snow, and th:
mercury is falling rapidly in the lak1
region.
The weather bureau at Washington
cN.es not hc-li"Ve th" -'e'i wave will be
of long duration. Aftc- a rere t: ;te
of winter, the weather will moderate
and then the sun will shine warm.
The mercury dropped about ten de
grees after midnight this morning, aft
cr a drizzle of rain.
During the past three days the Mis
sissippi river has risen rapidly. Be
ginning at 20 feet on Monday evening,
it has climbed to thirty feet, or within
a few feet of flood stage. The river is
still rising at St. Louis, indicating
that the crest of the water will not be
reached here for more than two days.
The Ohio is on a rampage, and the
high water is causing much uneasiness
in the vicinitv of Cairo.
FRED M'Gl'IRE ATTEMPTS
SUICIDE AT HOT SPRINGS
Son of Wealthy Cape County Farm?r
Shoots Self Owr Heart and
Lives Nervousness
Cause.
That Fred McGuire, eldest son of
Mr. and Mrs. V. W .McGuire of Gor
donville, one of the county's most
prominent families, attempted to kill
himself at his home in Hot Springs,
Ark., last Thursday, by shooting him
self, yesterday became known in Jack
son and that part of the county.
The McGuires live on a farm near
Gordonville and Fred McGuire is well
known in Jackson and vicinity.
According to the word received yes
terday, he still was living, although
he shot himself in the chest. The
bullet ranged downward after enter
ing above his heart.
McGuire was married a year ago,
he moved to Hot Springs, Ark., on ac
count of ill health which his wife suf-
fered. His parents have maintained
a home on the outskirts of Hot
Springs, where they visit during the
year.
McGuire's relatives ascribe his at
tempt to end his life to nervousness,
with which he had been suffering for
some time. He was in good standing
with his insurance company and re
cently had been given an advance in
salary.
exchange the potato for an aere of
ground in the heart of the city.
Lawyers Decide Not To Indorse
Any Candidate For Judge of The
Common Pleas Court To Succeed
Late R. G. Ranney.
NEWSPAPER'S EXPOSURE STARTS
RUMPUS AND SCHEME EXPLODES
Effort Was Being Made To Place
Organization on Record For One
Candidate And Then Have Both
Parties Indorse Him.
Following The Tilbune's expose of the plan t turn t;ie Ca-:- County
liar Association into a political r.-.arli;a the rrniz;:ti!J -i ; d:iy ivp;j
diated the scheme by refusing to eve;; indorse a candidate for -J : i-1 ir" of
the Court of Common Fleas, to sucee.-d the hit.- Robert G. Ranii--y.
The ilot had been arranged to place the bar :is:-.u iali-": o:t n-coi-.l ii
favor of one man, whose candidacy was to have been aiiorov. d by i i!i tlx
Republican and Democratic County Committees.
The refusal of the bar association to be used a a D -moc-ratio
ro:!er v;m marked by on- of the most . tonvy M-ssions in the :: -, ei i;:t i.-'i"
history, and at the close of the meeting in the roust !:e'.i-e t'.c f-. lii.g
fested between the factions bold' red on a riot.
The debate on the political com pi. o of the froiuwd !!!"!?
scheme was voluntary for an hour and a half and the only motion that m :
put before the association was one for adjeuri'.r.if nt. which, altiioii.mi Sena
tor Thomas F. Lan president of the as.-ociat ion and a c andid.U" for lie
judgeship, wanted to debate, was carried by a standing vote of in io i'.
The plan to make the bar associa-: tool: the floor and aft. r oxeies.-ing n
ticn a political dictator as described sentiment .-imilar to lh..t :f !iov. iraa'
in The Tribune, was placed on trial at 'and Drt'm's. !; sound M ill" ivciti:;
the outset, and it formed the the ine ; note of the discu ieu.
that was carried throughout the entire (j,,Ubt if it wmh! b e:;.edi.-i.j at
session. ' th time for th.- lar :;.v z':A'.c..
A large delegation of iawyers at- !.,::ke roi o,i.i,!.- rda? ioi: : of a.y !.:!! .
tended the meeting from both the ; The party i oo!.dtt-. have i;..t y t
Cape and Jackson. Shortly after 1 :".!' a-.-ted. Moth of tiu-.n -n -'A -e.i.ly
o'clock Vice President R. B. Oliver. Jr.. , discard our rec om: :e-id;;tie,i ;.s tin y
called the attorneys to order and an- v.vidd have a perfect i'tht i do.
nounccd that President I. an hail in -
formed him over the telephone that h"
would be late to the meeting. .Mr.
Oliver was authorized to cpot; the;ir,l the Rr-;h'ic:.i: rrv.
meeting. i selves.
H.? concisely and trseh explained ' "Let the Demon::!- heie ied r-e :-.
th? purpose of the session in his open- ' t:ai; '"or tin ir Democrat V tic!:-1 :!
ing address. Me declared that the j xv Re.'ib!ic:ms itidor a i: :u: re
members of the bar association weie ihtdr ticket. L:-t I he Democrats and
to indorse a man for the Common j Kcpublicar.s :;et .-ejiara' ly here.
Pleas b-nch, and that the two pob'ii-j ..j .,m r,f the r;-ini'.'i. i",-.-.ev r, that
cal county committees would be asked j. v. (,;,;, ,.ol . ,.x;i"die:it i. n ;i an;. -to
approve the B-ir Association's selec- it),K. .)t tjs ."
tun.
C hairman iniver tlien tnrew n
meeting open for discussion by asking
those present to advance their sug -
gestions, regarding the best manner
of approaching such an indorsement.
Kdward L. Drum, whose name has
been mentioned as a possible candidate
for the position, launched the political
discussion.
"1 have read, and 1 assume that the
rest of you have road a story in The
Tribune this morning, charging that
there is a scheme afoot to work a
flimflam game here by making this
association a political machine.
"1 think one of the first things that
we ought to do this afternoon is to
find out about any sentiment of that
sort here.
'I, myself, feel that this meeting
was called with the highest and purest
motives at heart and in an honest en
deavor to take this judgeship out of
politics. Ithink we ought to learn if
we are in harmony with one another.
We ought to find out if we are going
to stand by what is done here.
"I want to express my own abiding
faith in this bar association, and I
say that any man who might be named
here shall receive my support, whether
he is a Republican or Democrat."
'Do you mean you want to hear The
Tribune discussed or the story that
wa.- printed this morning?" queried
I.ee L. Bowman as he rose to his feet.
"Gentlemen, I was shocked as 1 read
that story in The Tribune this morn
ing." ho continued "and I want to say
that I don't believe that such a senti
ment exists in this association. I
had been thinking of a man for this
judgeship and he was a Republican, j
I, too, have an abiding faith in the
purity of the motives with which this
meeting was called."
Judge Edward D. Hays thereupon
j "However, if any r. or
: are to ' made lv this ;.
ii'Ti'at ii-ns
i.ut ion, f
i
st that th I .- i ; : at: c;:'i.-?1
II!
Chairman Oliver's snggo.-tinn
at
! ,.iih-r Drum's or May;-' .m-.ge.-th.n le
piat.,.,j jn xu. f,,, ,:) el" a rmti.-.n
1 lhat jt t.)jU',i ,.,o;.e.:y bo phso d ep---u
I f(,r ,!jsvu .V,:! !;,et with no re-poos
jan(! t;,(, jaWyers conti'iued to e.ebat"
v.-;thtut any motion to ta'k about,
: t tni co.-e f J'ld-; I! i. talk,
j Attorney T. D. Hi ties of J:;c!- n t'..k
tV floor.
"Gentlemen. 1 received, a ;.-ta! no
tice to att-nd this meet iru . It -tat d:
'Purpo.-o. to I'd! the vav.'i'cy c- ated by
th death of Jud:,e Ran -ley."
"I as.-'.e.ied tha' it i : t ! to in
dorse and foyvard the e.a. 'e of the
man we favor to the Gove.-:vr for his
appeintm-'iit. I read The Trihiir- this
morning ar.d I i-T; v d it v :i wrong.
"But since I have come h i", J have
heard joy, 'Ir. Chaii m:ta. ' c;ai'- t:iat
th-? purpose of this meeting is to in
dorse v. .nan whe.-e nr. me . ka'I be rec
omer.ded t bth of ti'o rarty central
committees.
"The Tribune v. as r'.zhi, I have con
cluded, and their point " as v.-.--!! taken.
"But, genth ir.re. it seeir ; t- me one
of the essential points for us io de
termine is whether tee law -r!ve : the
governor the pov.i r of apj.-Iijtmi-nt,
or makes it mai.ile.tory upon !;iei to
call a special e' tioiu
"I would like to know the fe;nio. of
you or. that erne, tio i. If we have t,i t
to indorse a aian for the governor's
approval, that is ail right. B.-l if we
have met t indorse :: man to become a
candidate in an f le.-tior, that is the
wrong st: "
Mr. ITf.vs took his .-eat. and Prrsi
c! nt hr.i'e. who had i,o:r.n i-:to the
room. :;; f-n'i-a'-K'd bv Julian G. Mil
lor. f-hort'iy after the opening of the
I iyer-t-r.g. e:.l:e;l out from his seat bfl
hind Jlr. Hir.es:
Continued on page 3.
