BLADE
H
Volume 26, Number 38
LACLEDE, MISSOUBI, EBIDAY, JANUARY 28, 1916
$1.00 Per Year in Advance
LACLEDE
TOWN AND COUNTRY
About Local People and Events and
Other Matters of Interest
Have two farms for rent. W
S. Savage.
Three five cent cigars for 10 cents
at Weaver Bros.
If in need of a farm loan see me
W. S. Savage.
A registered Poland China male
hog for sale by H. H. Hawes
Three five cent packages of gum
for 10 cents at Weaver Bros.
A soft coal Peninsular heater, as
erood as new. for sale by E. B
Allen.
A eood five room house in the
east part of town for sale. Inquire
at this office.
The Linn County News has in
stalled a linograph and its Tuesday
issue was as neat as" could be in
the handsome new dress.
Laclede is to have a new milli
nery store, Miss Laura Love having
bouerht a comDlete new line to be
in about March 1. to be kept in
connection with her variety store
E. A. Foster will hold a public
sale on the old Lewis Collins farm
northeast of Laclede on next
Wednesday. February 2. See his
advertisement in The Blade today.
Take a big reliable daily paper
during this campaign year. The
Daily Globe Democrat one year
for only two dollars if you send
that amount to this office before
March 1.
Wm. Kraft has sold his resi
: dencp recently vacated by Carl
Harris to E. B. Cooper who has
lived on the Hetrick place north of
town the past year. The Cooper
family will move to town.
Gold mounted spectacles in
leather case, "Dr. A. J. Simpson,
Surgeon and Oculist, Chillicothe,"
in gold letters on case, found and
left at this office. Owner may have
same by paying for this notice.
S. A. Anderson, Severy, Kansas,
Mrs. N. E. Hodson, Madison, 111.,
and J. E. Kephart, Novinger, Mo.,
are among those at a distance who
have renewed this week and. ex
pressed words of appreciation for
The Blade.
Forty acres, adjoining the cor
porate limits of Laclede, every foot
tilable, fenced and cross fenced
no improvements except a good
well, for sale at a reasonable. price
and on liberal terms. Apply
this office.
E. L. Libby who. removed from
here to Linn Creek twenty years
aeo this month, sent in a check
this week to renew his subscription
for the next two years. Mr. Libby
is in the livery business at Linn
Creek. He says they are all wel
and send best wishes to all old
friends here.
Jones Bros, shipped two cars of
fat lambs to the St. Joseph market
Thursday night of last week, E
R. Barton shipped one car and O.
A. Potter one car from Laclede and
E. K. Welsh one car from Forker
last Monday night. The sheep
industry is coming to the front in
this part of the county. '
Dr. O. S. Gould, the veterina
rian. who has returned to resume
his practice at Brookfield, was in
Laclede Wednesday and called and
placed bis professional card in
The Blade. Dr. Gould has just
been appointed deputy stata veteri
narian and for the present his office
will be at the McNamara livery
barn, phone 18.
ON LOCAL SUBJECTS
Officers Installed
Over one hundred were present
at the joint installation of Modern
PERSONAL PARAGRAPHS
Two Bake Shops
L-aeieae has been in need oi a
bakery for a number of years and
now u iooks as ir we were going to ... . Woodmen and Royal Neighbor Rr;f Mpnfl f Tim.. Wfc r.
l . ., ... , u9 Itama amsf Intoro.hnir Kit. n I " UUw.. v . uw, uv vvaiv
uave two. vnout tne- same day r " "V'"J . : 6 ",ls U1 officers at Woodrnen hall last Fri- j r n..-: mi
thftt , V. ttu.hmnn hnnrrf ih0 NW of Al Snrts .1 :ui . Tn- n, U W WHllUg UIC net!
. . ..fawu tv. . - uaj uigin. iurs. xLum vurry, Miuei
Shane building for his son-in-law, " . oracle of Chillicothe. was the in-
T - . . - I I
vv m. xnatines, to open a oakery in, . stalling officer for the Royal Neigh- Carl A. Keune left Mondav on a
u. m. Jamison of Ua e was here . "CU'J "tu ",c hms Ma nna ztan,Uv h0;na f.; t t
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Ehrich are
and leased the Wate building for to retire from their fine farm just deputy gtate orade of Marcelinj
the sameDumose. ReDairs on the S,,ULU U1 wwn- nave oougnr
Repairs on the
latter building were rushed along thc Ed' Randa11 residence property
and eomnleroH Tnpdau anA Mr and will move to town the first of
Jamison h.oa chinn ?n o w March. " Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Ehrich
portable oven and a complete remain on the farm-
bakery outfit and it is now being Dr. F. W. Bure who has put
installed and he expects to have in a trenuous time administering
bread on the market early next to the many sick during the present
week, probably Tuesday. Mr. epidemic of grippe and kindred
Jamison is an experienced baker diseases, is- himself down with
and has two sons who are entrazed grippe and a sore throat. He was
grand marshal,
the officers for
Follow
ensuing
in the business, one at Hale and
J-l- i. 1 A TT 1j 1
tue uiner at riamuton ana ne is
locating here. In the meantime
Mr. Matthes is going ahead making
reported somewhat better yester
day, being able to be up and about
the house.
acted as
ing are
year:
Mrs. Allie A. Lomax, oracle;
Mrs. Lutitia Weaver, past oracle;
Mrs. Matgaret Shell, vice oracle;
Mrs. Ella Mahurin, chancellor;
Mrs. Ida Davis, recorder; Mrs
Allie Harter, receiver; Miss Grace
Haight, marshal; Mrs. Pearl
Power, inner sentinel; Mrs. Rose
Haight, outer sentinel; Mrs. Etta
Patrick, manager; Dr. J. C. Cald
well, physician; Mrs. Daisy
Mr. and Mrs. P. F. Weaver va- Peacher, assistant marshal; Mrs.
arrangements for his brother, who eated their home Tuesday, moving Cornelia Welsh, Faith, Mrs. Anna
at
is a proiessionai Daiser, to moye
here from Illinois and open the
Model Bakery about the 15th of
next month when he is to . get
possession of his building. Bread
is the staff of life and competition
the life of trade, therefore, with
wo bakeries and five stores hand
ing bread no one in Laclede should
be compelled to go hungry as long
as they can command as much as a
jitney.
To Meet in Chillicothe
The republicans of this, the
second congressional district, will
meet in delegate convention at
Chillicothe. on Friday. February
a, to elect two delegates to the
national convention to be held in
Chicago in June. Seven members
of the congressional committee met
Chillicothe last Tuesday and
among other business elected F.
Fisher of Trenton, chairman
to succeed the late 11. S. Moudy of
Milan, and fixed the date for the
district convention.
Shipped Walnut Logs
Three cars of walnut logs were
hipped from here to the Chillicothe
Gun Stock factory this. week. This
new Chillicothe factory is expected
to give employment to about 150
men and is the biggest thing to
open up in this part of the state for
some time. F. M. Veech. buyer
for the Chillicothe concern, is here
this week and expects to get several
more cars at this place. Any one
having logs for sale can call L. B.
Jones for particulars.
Reading Circle Meeting
The Readiug Circle met at the
pleasant home of Mrs. Z. T.
Standly Tuesday with almost every
member present. After roll call
and business transacted the study
was taken up. Mrs. L. F. Moore
who had charge of the lesson gave
a beautifni explanation on The
Outlook for Plain Folk," and "The
World Wide Advance of . Demo
cracy." ine social hour was i
pleasant feature of the evening
The hostess served dainty refresh
ments. At a late hour the Circle
adjourned to meet with Mrs. L. F
Moore the next regular meeting
Leader, Mrs. F. F. Pratt.
to the south side to-occupy Miss Jones, Modesty; Miss Marietta
Ransom's residence. They have Welsh, Courage; Mrs. JosieRicker,
rented their . property to J. B. Endurance; Miss Helen Hoyt, Un-
Jones who vacates his home in the selfishness; and Mrs. Hettie
southwest part of town and rents Weaver, musician.
it to his brother-in-law, W. A. For the Woodmen J. B. Patrick
Chinn who arrived from McLouth, was installing officer while Carlos
Kansas, with his family last Satur- C. Anderson acted as grand escort,
day. Mr. Jones moves ud town to aod the following were inducted
be nearer the school and closer to I into office: A. J. Cay wood, consul;
his work.
mi T- i t- i .
ine itest noom advertises in
The Blade and last week had a
three line local in the Hale Hust
ler-Leader staling the Rest Room
was a good place for north bound
passengers to take dinner. Wed
nesday morning- the management
received a message to have dinner
for twentj'-five on arrival of the
north bound train. They fed over
thirty. Another demonstration
that it pays to advertise in the
newspapers.
J. B. Carothers, advisor; J. Clair
Lomax, clerk; H. L. Allen, banker;
Chas. Mahurin, escort; Dr. J. C
Caldwell, physician; J. P. Harter,
watchman; Harry Landree, sentry,
and Geo. W. Anderson, member of
board of trustee.
At the completion of the work
oysters were served and it was
after midnight when the lights
were turned out.
Good Roads Meeting
F. R. Power represented Laclede
at the good roads meeting held at
Last Saturday while the sun was Liuneus Wednesday afternoon.
shining brightly and the tempera- The meeting was well attended and
tnre was that of a spring day, a enthusiastic. The largest delega-
! 1 1 i. ? 3' 1 3 .i. il T . n ' i ,i
uuueiiu was uispiayea at me i3ur- uou rrom outside tne county was
lington station to the effect that a from Hale and Sumner. These
blizzard was headed this way and people are working for a county
tne temperature would drop to JO seat highway from Lmneus to
below zero by Sunday afternoon. Carrollton. runnine- south from
saia Diizzara must nave, struct a
snag or been torpedoed as it did
not reach here and the balmy
weather continued all day Sunday
Laclede through Sumner to Hale
and then to Carrollton. A great
deal of extra work was done on the
Chariton end of the route they
and Monday, with slightly colder have selected last fall and plans
by Tuesday noon. are being made to push the work
Ira Downpv has traded his dm vigorously as soon as the ground
worK in tne
Miss Eva Foster spent last Sun
day with friends in Chillicothe.
Mrs. Clara Thomas left Monday
on a business trip to Wyoming.
C. B. Talbott was in St. Louis
and Chicago on business this week.
Miss Mabel Raredon of Hale was
the guest of Mrs. C. B. Talbott
last Mouday.
Mrs. Robbins is here from Okla
homa visiting her daughter, Mrs.
II, E. Maybee.
Mrs. Mary Mize returned last
Friday from a visit with relatives
at Green Castle.
Miss Isabelle Cook of Carrollton
visited her uncle, E. G. Cole and
family near Forker last week.
Mrs, G. W. Syms returned home
Tuesday from spending three weeks"
with her parents at Salisbury.
E. Childress has The Blade sent
to his daughter, Mrs. Ellen Hat
field at Kansas City, Kans., for a
year.
Miss Leora Walker, principal of
the Laclede high' school, has been
off duty this week on account of
sickness.
Several from Laclede attended
The Winning of Barbara Worth,"
at the DeGraw in Brookfield Tues
day night.
Mr. and Mrs. Roy Maybee re
turned to their home at Mexico
Monday after visiting relatives
here over Sunday.
Lothair Adamson of Trenton,
Nebr., is here for a month's visit
with his sister, Mrs. E. J. Finney,
and other relatives.
J. Knight is a new name on our
Laclede list with the date a year
ahead. Mr. Knight also orders
the Daily Globe-Democrat.
Mr. and Mrs. Carl Harris have
moved to the country, having
rented the Creekmore farm north
east of Laclede on route three.
Wade Patrick, Roy Rowland and
Roscoe Rankin were in Chillicothe
Tuesday night and attended the
performance of September Morn.
J. L. Barstow, wife and daugh
ter, who have been here a couple
for some residence property at that
place. Mr. Bagby took charge of
Sumner delegation and laid their
1 lf it i mi
fh sforA ivrnnrW nn.1 Mr TWn: Pns oeiore tne meenng. me
" "'IT- A "I 1 1 A M 1
at on nackpd his household (,WS umn county aeiegates at tne meet'
and moved to Favette where h J ing pledged their support to a con
The Baptist Church
Richard L. Stratton; Pastor
Sunday school next Sunday
morning at 10 o'clock. Preaching
in the evening at 7:30.
There were twenty-five in Sun
day school last Sunday and three
received for baptism in the evening.
The new electric lights lit up
beautifully.
You are invited to coma and
work and worship with as. 1
stock to A. J. Baerbv of Huntsville wm ao lo W0IK in ine sPrng
Attorney U. A. House headed the ot weeus rrom Kansas visiting air.
and Mrs. J. P. Harter, went to
Browning last Friday for a visit
with relatives.
Mrs. Willis Brott and daughter
Katherine and married daughter,
Mrs. Hazel Morgan and baby
Doris, all of Brookfield, were guests
of Mrs. A. J. Caywood last Satur
day afternoon.
H. N. Shoptaugh returning to
his home at Unionville from a visit
in Kansas spent last Fiiday with
Mr. and Mrs, L B. Standly, they
having been neighbors back in
Illinois many years ago.
W. A, Chinn has rented out his
farm near McLouth, Kansas, and
will be connected in business with
his father, who is a contractor and
builder. Mr. Bagby will put a
druggist in charge and continue
the business here providing he can
get a building as the one where the
stock is now located must be
vacated next month.
necting road the people of the
northwest part of the county are
'asking for and elected a vice presi
dent look after the matter.
Methodist Church Notes
H. J. Dueker. Pastor.
Since the repairs were completed
on the Modern Woodmen building
they have a neat and comfortable
hall. A new floor was laid, the
walls and ceiling newly decorated,
two "new stoves were pnt in and
everything is in first class .con
dition. The hall is for rent to
other societies or for socials and
Other public meetings. The so
cieties now using the hall in addi
tion to the Woodmen and -Royal
Neighbors, are the Modern Brother
hood and Knights and Ladies of
Security, and the Grand Army
Post. Information concerning the
hall may be had from this office.
Preaching service at 11:00 a. m.
Subject of sermon, 'The Profitable
Life." ,
Sunday school at 9:45 a. m.
Wm. Kraft, superintendent.
Ep worth League at 6:30 p. m.
ToDie: The Cost or Price of is moving to Laclede. Mr. and
Christian Discipleship." Special Mrs. Chinn arrived last Saturday
music. Miss Elfrieda V. Dueker, ' and after the first of next month
leader. j will occupy the J. B. Jones resi-
Evangelistic service at 7:30 p. dence.
m. This meeting will likely close! Mrs. Margaret Weaver was in
the special revival services. Among Brookfield Tuesday night in at
the Jews in olden times the last tendance' at a reception tendered
day of the feast was always the Mrs. Mae Hughes, president and
greatest. Let ns make the last Mrs. Verie Davis, vice president,
service the greatest of all the eer- of the Rebekah state assembly
vices. God will do His part.
given by the Brookfield Iode.
