THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XIX NO. 260.
RARRE, -VERMONT, Fill DA V, JANUARY 28, 1910.
PRICE, OXK CENT.
SWISS PROMPT
WITH APOLOGY
TO GERMANY
And Will Prosecute Mob in
Lausanne Responsible for
' Tearing down the German
Flag Hoisted by German
Consul in Honor of Wil
liam's Birthday
FEDERAL COUNCIL
MET IMMEDIATELY
State Council and the Lau
sanne City Council Also
Met and Took Similar Ac
tion In Riot at Lausanne
Tolice Were Powerless
Berne, Switzerland, via Paris, Jan. 28.
An angry crowd in Lausanne, in the
canton of Vaud, . tore down a German
Hag which was hoisted by the German
consul yesterday in honor of Emperor
William's birthday, and the federal
council of Switzerland held an extra
ordinary session at which it was decided
to ofier an apology to Crermany Jor tno
insult of the flag. Meetings of the state
council of Vaud and tlio Lausanne city
council also were held for a like pur
pose. V
Despite all the efforts of the police,
the flair was torn down m the course 01
a hostile demonstration by a large crowd.
As soon as news was received in Berne,
the federal council assembled and in
structed the officials to express to the
Berlin government deep regret for the
incident. It also sent orders to the po
lice of Lausanne to prosecute the per
sons' responsible for the insult to the
flag, which is to be hoisted again and
adequately protected.
washed away. The Germans arc work
ing waist deep in the water, trying
extricate their guns, keeping up a liea
ami protective rifle lire meanwhile,
"It is said that the washing away :
a bridge, at Lida, government of Vilna
canned the wreck of a troop train in
winch a hundred persons were kiilc
or injured.
"Ihoro are ninny cases of scurvy
among tlio prisoners taken on tin
front."
3 APPAM MAY
BE LOST
GERMAN REPRISALS
ON BRITISH WOMEN
Fifty Ordered to Leave the Country Be'
cause England Expelled German
Female Help.
Berlin, via Ixmdon, Jan. 28. Fifty
English women who have been employed
n various occupations in Berlin have
been ordered to leave the country not
later than Feb, 6. 1 he Truthorities say
that this action is taken in reprisal for
the expulsion of German women who
had been employed m England.
LABOR DEMANDS
DRASTIC REVISION
Of the Munitions Act, with View of Pre
venting "Pretext of War for Coer
cion of Labor."
Uristol, England, Jan. 28. The labor
conference adopted by a show of hands,
with one dissenting vote, to-day, a reso-
ution brought forward by the Independ
ent Labor party demanding a drastic re-
ision of the munitions net, with a view
of preventing a "pretext for war being
used for greater coercion and the subjec-
lon of labor.
421 BRITISH SHIPS SUNK.
BALKAN SITUATION
SOMEWHAT CLOUDED
Austrians and Bulgarians Overrun the
Country, in Which Little Opposi
tion Is Apparent.
Operations which may have an impor
tant bearing on the Balkan situation are
now taking place in Albania. The sit
uation tiiere is ROmewhat clpuded, but it
appears that the Austrians and Bulga
rians . jointly are making the most of
what appears to be an opportunity to
overrun the country, in winch little, el
fective opposition is apparent.
The Greeks are said to be reinforcing
their detachments at Albanian border
points and developments as to the atti
tude to be adopted bv the Greek govern
ment in view of Bulgarian activities in
southern Albania are being closely
watched by the entente interests, pre
sumably in a further effort to seek out
hostile submarine bases in the Mediter
runean. ,
i The French have occupied the town of
Antipliilo on the Asia Minor coast.
Of That Total 254 Were Victims of Di
rect Attack.
London, Jan. 28. Since the outbreak
of the war to the end of October 254
British merchant steamers, aggregating
542,648 tons, were lost "through enemy
action," according to a White I'aper is
sued last night; 46 by warships and 37
bv mines. a
In the same period 107 steamers ag
gregating 143,1)02 tons were lost "by or
dinary marine casualties, of which 14
of a tonnage of 14,133, wore returned
as missing.
The loss of some of these, says a foot
note, was "probably due to mines or
other enemy action.
Carried 166 Passengers and
Crew of 134 Long
Overdue
LEFT DAKAR, AFRICA,
ON JANUARY 11
Another Steamship Reports
Having Passed Lifeboat
with Name "Appam"
.London, Jan; 28. Crave anxiety is felt
for the British steamship Appam, which
eft Dakar, West Africa, for Plymouth,
a 10 days' trip, on Jan. 11, with 1!6 pas
sengers and 134 crew. When about four
days out, wireless communication with
the vessel suddenly ceased.
A dispatch from Hull to Lloyd's says
that the British steamer Trcgintle re
ports having passed on Jan. 10 a litc-
boat with the name Appam on the stern
and her bow knocked away. Two or .
three other steamships coming in the
siime direction as the Appam are also
overdue.
A report from Lisbon recently an
nounced that mines had been discovered
in the Bay of Biscay.
POMERANIAN SAFE.
Allan Liner Arrives at Queenstown in
Tow and All on Board Safe.
Queenstown, Ireland, Jan. 28. The At
lan line steamer Pomeranian arrived yes
terday in tow, all on board bejng safe.
ASQUITH TELLS CASUALTIES.
Total Up to January 9 Were 549,467, He
Says.
London, Jan. 28. Premier Asquth in
a written reply to a request for infor
mation says the total British casualties
in all the fields ot operation up to Jan.
9 were 540,467, of which 24,122 were
officers.
WILL ASK THE
ALLIES TO DISARM
MERCHANTMEN
BOTH CLAIM SUCCESS.
In Violent Operations Connected on the
West Front.
London, Jan. 28. Considerable fight
ing hns been taking place along the en
tire French front Berlin asserts that
between fiiX) and 0(H) yards of French
trenches were stormed by the Germans
in the vicinity of Neuville and that
French counter attacks were without
result.
In this region the French assert, the
Germans were driven from mine craters
they had occupied and were repulsed in
trying to recapture them, while the
British report the progressive occupation
by their men of mine craters and listen
ing posts in the Neuville region.
Paris announces that German trenches
in Belgium and to the north tf the
Aisne have been badly hammered by the
trench guns and that the Germans -stif
fered serious losses in a fight of a mine
crater in the Argonne, forest.
The French official dispatch reads:
"During the day there wag consider
able activity by our artillery on the
whole front. In Belgium a destructive
fire directed against the German trenches
in front of Boesmgho and between
Steenstraete and Ilet has caused seri
ous damage to our adversary.
"In Artois to the east of Neuville St.
Yaast the enemy attempted by a coun
ter attack tr retake the craters from
which we drove him in the course of
the night, but was completely repulsed.
To the north of the Aisne our trench
guns shattered the enemy organizations
at La Ville-Au-Bois.
'In the Argonne mine fighting contin
ued to our advantage. Between hill
2S. and Haute Chevauchee we exploded
two mines. The enemy suffered serious
l'ses in the struggle which followed
for the capture of the crater one of
the rim of which we hold.
"thie of our long range guns took un
der its fire an enemy convoy which had
entered Mangienncs to the northwest of
Eta in."
America Will Then Request Central
Powers Not to Torpedo Unarmed
Merchantmen.
Washington, D. C, Jan. 28. The Unit
ed States has proposed to the allies a
modus vivendi under which they are
requested not to arm merchantmen. No
proposals have been made to the cen
tral powers, but they will be requested,
it is understood, to agree not to torpe
do merchantmen provided the allies con
sent to their disarmament. In this ac
tion, which was instituted several days
ago, the i nited Mates surreiulers none
of its previous contentions affecting the
conduct of a submarine warfare. This
move is understood to have been an
outcome of attacks upon Italian ves-
sels.
A dispatch of Jan. 25 announced that
the Pomeranian, outward bound from
Glasgow, bad been disabled in a terrific
gale and had lost its propeller and rud
der. -
GAS EXPLOSION
WRECKED SUBMARINE
Coroner's Jury Reported Last Night on
the Disaster to the F-2 Which
Was Blown Up in New
York Navy Yard.
New York. Jan. 28. A coroner's jury
in Brooklyn last night brought in a ver
dict that the accident which cost the
lives of five men on the I'nited States
submarine F'-2 in the New York navy
yard on January 15 was due to the ex
plosion of gases. The jurors said that
a they were unablo to determine the
cause of the gases it was their "unani
mous decision that the authorities in
charge were responsible and should not
liave permitted employes or others to
enter the t-U without proper protec
tion."
COMMITTED BIGAMY
TO PROTECT GIRL
Declares He Married Second Time to Stop
the Advances of Prominent Rut
land Man Whose Attentions
Were Encouraged by
Gir's Mother.
Rutland, Jan. 28. Charles J. Council
of Allwny, N. Y., who 1ms been employed
in this city severs'' weeks at the plant
of the Ala lining Manufacturing company,
was arrested yesterday afternoon on a
warrant issued Jv Grand Juror G. K.
Novak, charging bigamy. The respond
ent at police headip arters did not deny
the charge but be told a strange story
of alleged police persecution in Albany
and nearby cities, which culminated in
bin flight to Vermont and his marrying
Miss Dorothy Lillian Carncll on Novem
ber hi, 191. j. to protect her from the
advances of a prominent Rutland man,
the attentions being not only sanctioned,
but encouraged by her mother.
Council, who is a clean and bright
appearing young man, said at police
headquarters that he was compelled to
marry Miss ' Margaret Barrett in 1011
on seduction proceedings and that later
he was arrested for non -support, serving
14 months in a reiormatory at Elmira
When he was first arrested and before
ha was married he said Miss Barrett
offered to settle the case without an
ceremony for $1,1)00.'
But this was out of the question an
later when Connell' finished bis term in
the reform school be told the officers
ho was in a saloon in Albany, N. Y
when he flipped a coin to see wliethe
ho would go the straight or crooked
path. I lie coin favored the tietter way
of living and he says lie has since gon
straight. Ho claimed ho met many
crooks in the state institution who made
easy living by crooked means.
"Why 1 just had to leave New York
state," continued the prisoner yesterday
afternoon, "for as true as I sit here, this
woman had the hinges on the district
attorney s door worn oufr with her con
tinned complaint.
"Will she be here!" he asked the ofii
cerg. ,
"Not unless you want her to appear
against you, he was told, and at the
same time he was asked if ho wished to
see her.
"See her? Well I guess not. I just
as soon fuce a full fledged German sub
marine.
FATE IS IN
JURY'S HANDS
CONVENTION CONCLUDED.
to Them at Noon
To-day .
ARGUMENTS MADE
U. S. EXPORTS HANDICAPPED.
BANDITS HOLD UP
BANK IN CHICAGO
AUTO WRECKED A TRAIN.
FLOODS HARRASS GERMAN TROOPS
Engine Rolled Down Bank and the En
gineer Was Killed.
Lakcwood, N. J., Jan. 28. The loco
motive and one coach of a Pennsylvania
railroad express train were derailed in a
collision with un automobile at a cross
ing near the Allenwood station, six
miles from here, last night. The en
gineer, ThoniaB Berrien of Long Branch,
was killed by being pinned under his en
gine, which rolle;d down an embankment.
The occupants of the motor car, Dr. j
and Mrs. A. S. Higgins of Manasquan,
N. J., were dangerously injured.
BRANDEIS NAMED
FOR SUPREME COURT
President Wilson Selects Boston Lawyer
to Succeed Late Justice
Lamar.
Washington, D. C, Jan. 28. The pres-
ident to-day selected Louis D. Brandeis
of Boston to be associate justice of the
supreme court to succeed the lute Justice
Lamar.
DIED AT ADVANCED AGE.
Line Up Score of Depositors, Faces to
Wall, Threaten Officials, and Get
Away with More Than
$12,000.
Chicago, Jan. 28. Four robbers, armed
with revolvers, yesterday entered the
Washington Park National batik in East
3d street, threatened the lives of the
cashier, clerks and 20 depositors, and
escaped with between $12,000 and $15,
000. None of the depositors, who were or
dered to stand facing a wall, was
searched by the bandits, who gave their
sole attention to the money in the tell
er's cage.
After grabbing the money the four
hastily backed to the door and escaped
in an automobile.
Policemen and detectives were quickly
summoned and search for the bandits
wos begun.
J. Garland Statu, manager of the Bos
ton Americans when that club won the
world's championship in 1912. is vice-
president of the bank. He was forced
to remain at bis desk facing a revolver,
while one of the robbers entered the
teller's cage and took the money from a
drawer.
PLAN SUMMER OUTING.
HONOR REV. R. M. HOUGHTON.
Soldier Reported to Be Working in
Water to Their Waists.
U.ftdon. Jan. 2S. A" dispatch to the
Ilaily Telegraph from Petroirrad says:
"A thaw in the (ginski canal district
has caused the river Shara and Jasi
ohla to flood the country, sweeping away
trencbej and fort iricat ions which the
lrnuni built Wn the ground was
fror-n hard. aerording to a telegram re
ceived here from Minsli.
"All t ie radwsr and road t.e len
turned into uip and t(e German
waocary field railways Lave bees tt ia Hartford, toon.
Mrs. Emeline Wright Putnam of Brattle-
boro was 89.
Brattlelioro, Jan. 28. Mrs. Emeline
Wright Putnam, 8 years old. died sud
denly yesterday in " the home of her
daughter, Mrs. 'E. Barrows. Mrs. Put
nam was a native of Keone. N. IL. and
one of twin daughters who were married
at a double ceremony to How in U Put
nam of Brattleboro and Lvman F. Pow
ers of Barre. Mass.
In lid si they observed a double eold-
en wedding anniversary. Mrs. Putnam
l.-ave fonr on and two daughters and
three sisters, one of whom is her twin.
Members of Corgregation Give Reception
to Retiring Pastor.
Brattleboro, Jan. 2. An informal re
ccption ' tendered Hev. Roy M.
Houghton in tenter ortfrecational
church last night, which was attended by
many parishioner, and the pastors of
other rlmrche. Rev. Mr. Iiouchton n
presented a mini of monev.
Next Numiay will 1 hi last !.. s
he will j.-o ti the (hurcb of the KctWra-' studies of t'-e Bert ill
fruit i't:t.nratiB.
Vermont Sheriffs' Association Closes An
nual Session.
Burlington, Jan. 28. Fully 200 sher
iffs and deputies were present at the
final sessions of the Vermont Sheriffs'
association in this city yesterday.
Among the important items of business
transacted was the appointment of a
legislative committee consisting of Sher
iffs F. II. Tracy of Montpelier, J. H. Al
len of Burlington and Richard Beattie
of Maidstone. All the sheriffs were ap-
pointi-d a mass committee to arrange for
a summer outing with authority to fix
the time and place.
F. N. Godfrey, sheriff of Bennington
county, spoke on "Attachment of Real
Property." Sheriff W. H. Worthen of
Caledonia county was not present and
his topic. "The Trustee Process," was
handled by Deputy Sheriff H. J. Slavton
of Barre. Sheriff A. A. Peed of Orange
county spoke on "Sale of Personal Prop
erty on Execution," Sheriff C. E. Mann
of Windham county on "Search and Seiz-1
ure," and Deputy Sheriff C. A. Smith of j
Montpelier on "The Real Meaning of i
Probation." K. ,1. Hill of Newport spoke j
on Arrest on irimmal Iroress, tor
Sheriff J. II. Kiniry of Windsor county,
who was not able to lie fesent.
Stanley C. Wilson of Chelsea was not
here to rive bis address on "The Rela
tion of the Officer to the Bar," and in
stead City Attorney A. I- Sherman
spoke on the -Oj.ertion of the OtTi
rer with tl.e Attorney." Senator Henry
!'.. Shaw gare an int-retinz talk on l is
ii system of Cnger
By Certain Phases of the Anti-Trust
Laws, Says Gilbert H. Montague.
New Orleans, Jan. 28. -The handicap
which certain phases of tha anti-trust
laws place against American export
trade was discussed by Gilbert II. Mon
tague, a New York lawyer, in an ad
dress before the National Foreign Trade
convention here to-day. He said:
Our Sherman ,tnU-trast act, while
powerless to forbid any combination
against us, nevertheless,' purports to reg
ulate ottr entire Tiireign commerce, and
apparently denies to our exporters every
advantage, of co-operative action to meet
the conditions of foreign trade. Our
competitors are encouraged by their gov
ernments to unite in highly organized
combinations. Our exporters are every
where confronted by combinations of
foreign rivals organized to resist our
competition, and must often sell to com
binations of foreign buyers equipped to
depress the prices of our products. Un
der such a handicap our export trade
lias not even a fair sporting chance..
"Can American raisers of cotton now
confronted by combinations of European
buyers working to depress the prieo of
cotton, unite in a joint selling campaign i
to maintain the price of cotton in Eu
rope? ' ' "
"Can American exporters of lumber de
moralized by price cutting at home and
abroad, combine to uphold prices in the
Orient?
Can American producers of copper
now competing against one another in
selling to combinations of European buy
ers, stop underbidding one another and
agree upon prices in the European mar
ket? .
"Can American manufacturers of farm
implements, now maintaining separate
selling organizations in Russia combine
to maintain a single selling agency to
handle all their products in Russia?
"Agriculture, forestry, fisheries, min
ing and manufacturing the entire range
of American industry await answers to
these questions.
"L'ntil these assurances are had and
these questions positively answered
there can lie no general participation in
foreign trade by the rank and file of our
business men. There is not the slight
est likelihood the courts- will answer
these questions definitely in season to be
of the east use in the situation created
by the great war. nor in the still more
critical situation that will ne as soon
as the great war ceases. Nothing short
of immediate act-on hy Congress can re
move the present hindrances to our eX'
port trade."
Vermont and New Hampshire Monument
Dealers' Association Had Good Session.
With the return from a motor trip to
tlio quarries yesterday afternoon, the
mid-winter meeting of the Vermont and
New Hampshire Hetail Monument Deal
ers' association came to an end, many of
Hatch Murder Case Given ,1"al'T" ,ri,l" for tl,"ir 1,,on"l"' L"
mi? evening. j ncy are cuiiiiiik wu ri
they said, coming back to Barre for more
of the hospitality meted out to them
during their stay of two days in the city.
One of the newly elected officer stated
that this pledge was not uttered in a
momentary burst of enthusiasm, but
that it represents the sdlK-r second
t hoiicht of every retailer who pariici
i 'h i A Y Pa ted in the Eatliermg.
Kvery effort to assure the visitors oi a
warm welcome was made bv the dranite
Manufacturers' association, from the mo
ment President Alexander Duncan wel
comed them at the informal meeting
Wednesday morning until the good-byes
were said last night. The retailers were
particularly pleased with their aeeommo
nation at Hotel Barre, w'lth tlie ban
quct Wednesday evening and with the
cordial reception given them at Barclay
brittliera' unit oflipr elittiior lllants and
iri. T-l t T nn M . rr.i.L r- I
ri. dounsuury, ,ian. :a.-iim uatvii t the onarr es. where BoutwelL Mi ne
murder trial was completed to-day, the V.rnum had a variety of refreshments
case going to the jury just before 12 awaiting them on their arrival yesterday
ociock. ppeciaiors in mo jury room afternoon.
wlio heard Judge Stanton s charge to the Much was accomplished in the way of
jury, uiougns iavoraoie 10 me re- mtroducinff to retail dealers, some of
spondent, and an acquittal is generally whom paid their first visit to Barre on
expected. - (the occasion of the convention, some of
Ihe arguments in the case were be- the achievements made in the Barre
gun yesterday after noon. State's At-
MANUAL
TRAINING
Is Advocated by Barre City
School. Commissioners in
Their Annual Report
Judge Stanton's Charge Is
Thought to Be Favor
able to Respondent
BUT ADEQUATE FUNS
A T?f Tr.T Air Air 'i
The Condi. of the Public
Schools Told in Vari
ous Reports
torney N. A. Nelson's argument was
severely attacked by Robert V. Sim
mens and J. Kolf Searles, counsel for
the defense. Attorney General Barber
summed up the state s case this niorii'
ing.
G0DDARD RECESS EXTENDED.
granite belt. President Duncan of the
manufacturers' association, the secre
tary, II. P. Hintnan, and a special com
mittee composed of W. P. Scott, Alex
andcr A. Milne and Armando Comolli
were especially active in their endeavors
to make the stay of the retailers worth
while,
The mid-summer meeting of the twin
state association is to be held at The
School Will Not Reopen Until Feb. 8 Weirs, N. IL, late in July.
Because of Scarlet Fever.
Notwithstanding the expectation that MONTTELIEK
scarcely 10 days would elapse after the I
closing of school on account of scarlet I Ice Goes Out of North Branch Without
fever before sessions could be resumed
again, it was announced to-day that God
dard seminary will not be reopened un
til Feb. 8, instead , of Feb. 1, as was
originally planned when the students
were sent home -at the request of the
state board of health. The four students
who came down with the malady at the
seminary are making progress toward re
covery, but word had reached the school
authorities that no fewer than four stu
dents who went home have shown posi
tive y pro torn of the disease.
Yesterday Health Otlicer Dr. J. W.
Stewart, Prin. O. K. Hollister and Dr.
f. II. Woodruff, who is attending the pa-
Damage to Bridge or Property.
Last night's rain coupled with the
extended period of warm weather broke j much good has proceeded already from
up tlid ice in the .ortH brancu river the completion ot the new SpauWiiig an
Through the action of the board of
school commissioners in ratifying" report
from the several departments in the city
schools much material is available for
printing in the city yearbook, which is
to appear early in February. A year' of
progress is indicated in the general re
ports of the commission, the superin
tendent and the principal of the high
school, as well as the heads of a number
of departments. Below is given a digest
of the most salient features in the re
ports of the commission, Supt. C. If.
White, Prin. II. II. Jackson, Charles
Pamperl of the evening drawing school,
Miss Josephine E. llovey of the musical
department, and Miss Catherine Reave
ley of the department of drawing.
Much that has been written in the an- v
nual report of the school commissioners
is retrospective of some of the larger
achievements of the year and the more
important happenings. It is stated that
and in the Winooski river below tlio
Colton dam and the water for a time
threatened to get into the cellars along
Llm street. J he ice in the smaller
stream went out about 10 o'clock this
forenoon, leaving the river clear up to
the Lane -Manufacturing shops. The
ice barely cleared the framework which
was used in building the new Kialto
bridge, carrying out one or two boards.
Persons on the Central ermont sta-
tient at the seminary, met in conference tlon platform were given a thrill this
with the result that it was decided to morning when a woman and three email
postpone the reopening of the school, children attempted to board the south-
Students were notified to that effect to- bound tram alter it had started to leave
dav. In instifviniT the action of the the station. They had waited until the
state board of health in sending to their traiI started bclore they learned that
homes students who undoubtedly had th i1" was going south and then all
been exposed while in school, it is" stated made desperate attempt to get on.
that the facilities at the seminarv for The woman and one child made the step
caring for any large number of students safely, but two of the children barely
are wholly inadequate. Furthermore, it 80t " the steps, and the brukeman was
is said, the health officer in each town forced to run along side the moving
and citv where Goddard students reside train and bold the little ones from fall-
was notified of the conditions at the lng oft. the engineer finally stopped
seminary and urge to co-operate with -"o "r w pnuge ana nn scciutni
the state boar in keeping the epidemic was averted.
from growing.
OFFER TO BUY FAIRBANKS CO.
Western Selling Agents Make Proposi
tion to Stockholders
Notices of a dismissal meeting to be
held Feb. 7, in the bankruptcy estate
of Dan McAuley, formerly of Calais, now
of Graniteville, were sent out to-day
by Referee . N. Theriault. Notices
of discharge meetings in the estate of
tred Irudeau and r. N. Brassaw were
also mailed to-day.-
A marriage license was issued to-day
St. Johnsbury, Jan. 28. The E. & T.
Fairbanks Co. have mailed to stockhold
ers notices sett forth an offer of the to William Laundry of 311 Elm street,
Fairbanks. Morse 4 Co., of Chicago to and Hazel ban born of 20 Court street.
buy the E. & T. Fairbanks Co. The Mrs. Judson L. 8. V'arney returned
offer is to exchange all outstanding last evening to Koxbury, alter a few
shares of. the capital stock of the iE. & days visit m the city with relatives.
PRES. REEVES SPOKE.
At Business Men's Meeting in St. Johns
bury Last Evening.
St. Johnsbury, Jan. 28. Company D,
1st regiment, . . t., were the iruests
of the Commercial club at a lununit
in lytluan hall last evening, hollow
ing the spread the company was ad
dressed by Col. Beeves, president of
Norwich university, and Adjutant Gen
eral U S. Tillotson of St. Allans, who
talked on the subject of "Military Pre
paredness." They paid sweial attention
to the needs of the state militia and
both men made strong impression.
VIGOROUS LANGUAGE USED.
In United States Protest to Great Brit
ain on Mail Interference.
Washington. D. C, Jan. 2S. Tie text
of the Ainerian protest to Great Brit-
i against interference witli neutral
mails, made public last night, reveals
that diplomatic and consular pouches
have been treated in a manner the I'nit
ed States r-jrrd as "veiatiously in
quisitorial." The note ileirrilieo the prac
tice of the British r.t!n ials "unwar
ranted interfer.-m" and in urgently re
questing a prompt reply point out that
"a strong feeling is le-inj aroussl" in'
this countrr tv t!e l s of vahial let-!
ter, while foreign bankn are refusing
to c.- -nierinn drafts Isvane they
have nmm-e that drafts are K-
cure in the mail.
T. Fairbanks Co. on the basis of $500
a share for three shares of the Fair
banks. Morse & Co. stock. This is con
sidered a liberal offer, as the E. 4 T.
Fairbanks stock has not sold above $125
for some time, and has not paid divi
dends in two years. The directors ad
vise selling. The Fairbanks, Morse &
Co. are the selling agents for the E. & T.
Fairbanks Co. in the West.- To avail of
the offer stock must lie deposited with
the First National bank of Boston before
March 1.
ICE JAMS CLEARED.
Three, Threatened But Prompt Action of
v Street Department Starts Ice.
Damrer from three ice jams, two in
Stevens branch and one in Jail branch
just before it joins the larger stream in
the south end, stirred the street depart
ment to activity to-day. Threatened in
undations near the Granite street plant
of Marr & Gordon and along the Smith
meadow prompted the street employes,
under the direction of Supt. J. C. Wilson,
to relieve the congestion by blasting a
huge jam near the Smith, Whiteomb A
Conk dam. Dynamite was used and six
blasts were discharged just before noon.
Afterward it was divided to dislodge in
the same way ice jams that bad formed
near the Barre &. Chelsea railroad trestle
off Avers street and at the plant of
Charles Bianchi 4 Sons in the north end.
DEATH OF LAURA ANN CHAPMAN.
Elderly Resident of Montpelier Died This
Morning.
Mrs. Laura. Ann Chapman died this
morning at her borne on Hubbard street,
aged 78 years. She was born in More-
town, April lfl, 1838, the daughter ot
Daniel Carr. She was married about 59
ears ago to Henry Chapman, who died
about 10 year ago. Since then she lias
made Montpelier her borne. She is sur-
ived bv five children, all of w hom reside
n Montpelier: W. O. Chapman, II. S.
iiapman, Mrs. v ilham 1 haver, .Mrs.
Ma li. Herring and .Mrs. if. v . .ye. I lie
funeral will probably lie held Sunday
from her home.
MARRIES CHORUS GIRL.
Harold Jones Followed Jennie All the
Way from Bangor to Burlington.
Burlington. Jan. 2. Harold Kngene
Jones, aped 21, of Banpor. Me and Jen
nie OssileOa'hi, eged 22. an Last Boston
elioru girl in the Bob (Ht musical com
pany playing here this week, were mar-riei"to-iar
hy Jin-tiee of the Pear Jed
V Ijidl. The rroom was smitten with
the charms of to tir hiisssan kicker m' spoiled tl.-e K-e on l' rt-r.
The Clerks regained their lead in the
bowling league last evening by taking
four, points from the Bakers on the
State street alleys. The Clerks toppled
the ping for a total of 1381. Beanies
established a new record for a three
string total, 3(11) On the School street
alleys the Independents .were forced to
be content - with three ot four points
gained from the Italian-Spanish team.
In probate court yesterday afternoon,
the Vill of John H. Richmond, late of
Northtield, was proven and Ilattie M.
Richmond named executrix. Frank C.
Bancroft of Barre Town settled his ac
cqunt as administrator of the estate
of John C. Bassett, late of Barre Town.
The arrest of Sylvester Williams yes
terday by Chief of Police Connolly on
a warrant ciiarging mm witn selling
mortgaged property, brought about a
speedy settlement with Peter Jerd, who,
it is alleged held a mortgage on an Edi
son talking machine, which Williams
sold.
Sheriff Frank H. Tracy, Deputy Sher
iffs Henry C. Lawson, Roy Getman, Ar
thur Emery and C. A. Smith, returned
last evening from Burlington, where
they attended the annual meeting of the
Sheriff s association.
Articles of asscoiation have been filed
with the secretary of state by the John
Nelson Construction company of Mont
pelier, with capital stock of &,000. The
company is to engage in general con
struction work. Ihe incorporators are
John Nelson and Catherine F. Nelson of
Montpelier and Catherine K. Nelson of
Brooklyn, N. Y. The new company has
office in the Kialto building.
C. Bova returned iat evening from
Providence, R. J., and Boston, where be
has been visiting relatives since the lirst
of the year.
Coach Frederic Edwards and members
of the Montpelier high school ba-ket-ball
team left this morning for Morris
ville and Stowc on a two days' trip.
To-night the local five will endeavor to
defeat People's academy at Morrisville
anil to-morrow evening Stow Inch
sehol will be their opponents. The lo-L-al
team defeated Stowe in this city
early in the nvwth. but tde strength
of the Morrisville team i unknown.
Clark, the aggressive little forward was
unable to make the trip bei-au of ill
ne and the following players were
taken: pt. Gro. Jangraw and Put
nam, forwards. Woodworth, cent-T,
Smith and Papc, guards.
The Montlier city council has given
the Irivins clul -ermision to bold the
races n-Hcfiulcd for to-morrow on Main
street, etartinir in the vicinity of the
new s''1kk1 huiMmsr and fiinshirsr m the
hu-ines section of ti e s if y . 11j- was
ina-le m-f-e r hy Ce thaw. wl i h
here tii-
iicx and to the fact that a change, in the
state laws affecting the 'minimum age of
children attending school brought about
a material decrease in the enrollment is
attributed the necessity for leaving va
cant three rooms at the Lincoln build
ing. On the whole, the commission con
cludes thut citizens of Barre may have
the satisfaction of knowing that the
school population is being accommodated
in buildings entirely modern and sani
tary. None of the buildings used for
school purposes, now that the Church
street school is vacant, is more than 21
years old, the report says.
Regarding the S'paulding annex this
statement is made: "The appropriation
voted by the city was exceeded ia tho
construction and equipping of the
Spaulding building addition, but this was
occasioned, in a measure, by the neces
sity, seen as work progressed, of more
rooms than originally planned and cer
tain changes from the original plans,
which seemed quite important and im
perative." : ,
The commission pays tribute to tho
services performed by the late Supt. E.
M. Roscoe in behalf of the school system
apd describes the steps taken to iill the
vacancies created by his death. Nearly
all of the grade and high school teachers
returned for the fall term of 1015 and
teachers and students are now working
together in commendable harmony.
Important sections of the report are
given verbatim below: - .
"By a change in the state school law,
made at the last session of the legisla
ture, the state aid to our city schools is
eliminated, except as to the pay for tho
superintendent and instructor of tho
teacher's training course. From now on,
therefore, it will be impossible for tho
city to get any financial help from the
state, except in the two departments re
ferred to above. This reduces materially
the funds available for the running ex
penses of our city schools and renders it
necessary to practice the strictest econ
omy possible, if the amount for school
purposes, available from the 70-cent tax,
is not exceeded in the support of the
schools. . "
"In this connection, we would mention
a deplorable condition, referred to an
nually by your school board for several
years, that of lack of proper equipment
for the conducting of manual training
and of domestic science in connection
with the city schools. In the erection
of the Spaulding addition and repairs t
the old building, provision was made for
rooms to be used for this purpose. Threo "
large rooms in the basement of the old
building, nt a little expense, could be
equipped with material for the teaching
of domestic science to the girls and man
ual training to the boys, but instructors
for these courses would need to be hired
and considerable equipment installed in
the rooms. For the present year at
least, for reasons mentioned above, n
funds are available to be used for this
purpose. This is much to- be regretted,
for it was the wish of your school lioard
that with the completion of the Spauld
ing addition, these two courses might be
established in our city schools.
"We believe that the city will not bo
doing justice to its bovs and girls until- -
other departments of vocational training
than those now in use are established in
our schools. The commercial department
of the hifh school anil work in drawing
in both the day and evening school is of
material help in fitting our young peo
pie for future work, but our endeavors
in the vocational line should not end
here."
The following abstract of expense i
appended to the rejort: Teachers' sal
aries M..-.27.f7, fuel -V..1.S1.21, textbook
7?7.2t. janitors f 4.4.'4.!'8. schoolroom
and oflie supplies $l.ln;l.S2. general sup
plies (50.11, repairs I.S42 2. mi-eella-neou
?14.4. insurance ?r2,.72. refer
ence books and chart $2ti.74. printing
75.8.'i. water and light I'fC.fifl. furni
ture .1.4Itl.7-t. express, freight nd eart
te flin.OI, eeniiic drawins ehoo f2-
.W..72. Spaulding addition 41.f.77.n3: to
tal. aioflns.W..
There were t1 teachers employe! it
tv.e fall of 1915 and 72 rooms wre in use.
There were 2..V?o pupil enrolV.l in I !.(
as aj-ninst 2 2 in 1014. 2if'l in 1015,
in P!2 and 2l in 1111. T
vere diilv ettndme w 2K-i and
t'.e per.-eritio of alfrn.Un.e 4. T'
cnroilnn-nt bv b-nl dins in the f!l term
Bangor, Jtc, and follow ed t'-r here.
lt was to bae Uken pla.
(Coit :rrd ea fenrrth p j.
