MM
0ÍSOT
isrmtf
TWENTY-FOURTH TEAR.
CARLSBAD. NEW MEXICa FRIDAY, JANUARY S8, HI.
NUMBER IU
1
fíIORE SHOT IN JAUREZ
MURDER OF BERT L. AKERS
AVENGED BY EXECUTION OF
THE YOUTHFUL THIEVES.
Elder of C-ndsmned Mm Plead for
. Brother Lit and Declare H
Shot Young Ranchman WhlU Lie
feeding Hia Right.
Sheeting of Prlsonere la Old Cometer
at Juaret Wltnraaod by Small
Crowd "rom El I'aao; Bodlea JMa
played In Public
Monday'. El Paao Timea.
With a curt upon their lips against
th American people, two young Mex
ican brothsrs were ihot to death
by a military execution squad In the
Juaret cemetery at 0:07 Sunday morn
ing for th murder Friday aumoon
of Bert L. Akera, American ranchar
of Y lleta. Bernardo and Fraderico
Duran, th executed men went to their
death with a courage worthy of bet
ter cause. Standing shoulder to
ahoulder against th whitewashed a
dob wall of th cemetery death house
they faced th Orina; squad with un-
daunted bravery, refused to be bllnd
folded and fell together at th first
volley from the executioners' rifle.
Laa Ward a Challenge.
Almost their last words was thla
challenge, Huns; at th group of Am
erican newspapermen and friend f
th mardored Akers: -
"Watch and see how Mexicans die,
you American -I"
Th only plea of any sort was mad
by Bernardo Duran, the elder brother,
.. few minutes before th end. 8tand
. ing beside Us centaury gato, he said,
.in his own tongue, to the Timea re
portar. In only American who talked
with th prisoners:
"We ara dying for you Americana.
iT)ll th world that. I shot th Am
arican because he was trying ta force
entrance to nty horn. I waa defend
ing my tiirhu, as any man would have
dona,
"My U other here is entirely In no-
-cent. He did not fire a siiot. But
they are going to kill him, too. Tell
me, is that Justice? He is being sac-;
;tificed to your American public opin-j
ton. We are not afraid to die but
'why should an innocent man be killed ? I
H I only tl years old. I am 24.
Bom day w will be avenged. They
are killing two for one."
While tne elder talked, the younger
brother stood besld him, hands pock
eted and lips quivering slightly, bat
saying no word. The prisoner were
ibourtd together by ropes.
Dreary March to Death,
The J aares cemetery is one and one
half miles from the Jail where the con-
'demited mn .pent their last night
The morning air waa eold, but the prl-
oners wore no costs wnen tney emer
ged at S:30 a. m. from the prison and
took their place, between six silent
guard, and set out, afoot, for the place
of death. Beside the firing squad rode
lu commander, CapUin Alfredo Ortia,
ef the Twenty-seventh batUlion.
Moonlight obscured by dull gray
clouds, was tha only light along the
way. head bent the brother strode
along, Ulking softly to each other.
Their guards muffled in gaudy-colored
blankets, shuffled beside them, rifle
lung aero, their backs. Once or
twice th elder brother' arm went
. eareeaingly aver, th younger should
er mA he whispered a) word of com
fort. ' Th. toad to th. placa of death la a
loeaqr one vn by day. It lead over
$ plain dotted with sickly mssquiu and
(actua. The last half mil. before the
emetary gate 1 reached the road
traighUna out and the white grave
i.s ar. vl.lbl. long before the
ata ti reached. Neglect ha made
the burying ground even mor. deso
late than usual. The crosses ataad
wrr over many gray; non. are
straight, standing taua. at grotesque
ngiaa, they make weird shadows up
en the wesd-oovered turf and marble
American W.msa Wlteeee Execatioa.
Blowly the little procession of death
approached the gate, which .Unas at
the crest of a gentle rise. Through
that gate have gun hundreds of prts
aer sentenced to death, moat ef them
war captives. The Americana, among
who ware number of women, wait
trig At tlat entrance,, involuntarily
hrank back at the prisoners and their
' fuarda arrived at the gato, which waa
Afwang opea by th. vaaf old aexton
C.vbo haa guarded it for year. It I
af iron and It creaked upon tta bin-
""Haltor aaid Caoteln Ortia when
I the squad had advanced about ten feet
' within. The gate waa closed behind
him and the apectatora hung over it.
Than tha Time repreeenUtive waa
nsrmltt.d to eater and InUrvUw the
nrlsnner. Whan Bernardo Doran had
lalahod talking he turned to Captain
Ortia and asked "Did th. general
ooapeT" n anssrer waa no. There
waa no tremor In th. prisoner' voice
and despite tho eold morning air be
did not shiver.
Th. order to advance one. more
wa. riven and tha little grouo march
ed toward th. "death house" In the
center of the graveyard, 400 yard
. away. The white wall of thla one
room hut shone In th. moonlight. The
. gate waa oponed to admit th. wit
Y; pesse. who crowded cloa to the axe
outiofiere. It waa nenrly daylight now. The
a,nna hanging low In th. west, gtrack
full apon the west wall of the death
houae, agalaat which tha prisoners
took their stand. All about them were
the wooden crosses of tha dead. Twen-
ly leet in ironi 01 vnira siooq nve sol
dier with rifle ready.
Declln to be Blindfolded.
Six o'clock whistle blew in El Paso
and tha noise echoed over the plains,
Ka in ti y then, but clear.came tha sound
of bugles in th vamps of th Ameri-
can regiment along th border and
at Fort Bliss. Reveille! Suddenly
th dawn broke. Th eastern sky-line
behind tha condemned men changed
in a moment from gray to light red,
as. though a bloody brush had been ,
i i : . i. I
wiuvu ajcainsi iv.
Captain Ortl advanced and placed a
soiled handkerchief over the younger
boy' eye, but as soon as the ofllcer
stepped away he slipped it to his fore
head and muttered: "I will die like
Bernardo, with my eyes open." Ber
nardo, who had stood quietly until now
broke out into a torrent of abuse, di
rected at the American spectator.
"Oh, for a carbine now in my hands,"
he shouted. "I'd show you American
something. Ah I Watch and
ee how Mexican die, you 1"
A Mexican do lice officer who had ac
companied the American to the cem
stsry walked to the prisoner and aaid to be considered by the American Na
a word or two. The younger handed tional Livestock association, now in
him a cheap little picture of himself convention in El Paso, Is federal reg
and asked that It be sent to hi par- ulation and control of graxing land
enta in Santa Rita, N. M. Th elder and various modifications of the home
gave him hia hat a present. Then stead laws such as will permit the
the policeman embraced them both and lease of certain of the government
Bernardo aaid: "Por la causal" (For land for rang purposes,
th cause! ). I f. in matter was consideren at lencth
Too softly pokn were th words and a session of the executive commit
the brothers said to each other as tee of the association held Tuesday
they embraced. From that brief good- afternoon and also during the meeting
bye scene the spectator turned away of the association's standing commit-
their eye.
Face Death Bravely.
Ready!" aaid tha captain. The
clicking of the .hell, being pressed
Inte barrels followed. The brother.
straightened and faced defiantly the
flvejamocutionera.
"Tak aim!" Flv rifle ": to
'" . "n""" i
ful iUno. Church belli In the an-
dent cathedral of Juaret began call
ng th early maa. The first bell
chime had hardly died away before
"FIRE I"
Like sand bag. dropped Into .pace,
the brothers crumpled to th ground,
Bernardo' arm, even In hi death
agony, lay across hi brother' breast.
aa though trying to protect him from
death.
A groan came from the writhing
figure of the elder. With hi. dying
breath he aaid clearly: "Oh, God, wait
aalnutel"
. The Mercy Shot.
Captain Ortia drew hi revolver and
advanced to the fallen men. Quickly
j-e ent a bullet into the brain of each
the mercy shot In les than thirty
Ueconda both men were dead.
Tha
American who had witnessed th
seen turned and almost fled to wait-
lns automobiles. The machines swunir
out over the road to Juarex and El
Paso, and the llghU met the rising
sun a they flashed along. Morning
had coma.
The bodies were displayed during
the day in Juaret and several hun
dred Americans viewed them. The
crime for whirS the brothers were
shot was committed Friday afternoon
on the Mexico side of the line, twelve
mil, east of J us in. Bart L. Akera,
a ranchman, wa. .hot to death while
looking for seme sows which had been
stolen by the Durana from a dairy
on tha American side. tn. uuran.
were arrested Friday evening, their
trial wa. held Saturday afternoon and
they were shot Sunday morning a
record for swift justice.
Similar Fate for aU Marderera.
General Gabriel G a vira, commander
of the Juarea garrison, haa announced
that he will punish summarily all
other who murder.
The atory of the killing of Bert
Aken, for which th young Mexicana
were shot, will be found on tha ace
nth page o fthla paper.
PAT MIDDLETON'S HOU8E BURNS
Last Friday morning
tha ranch
house of Mr. and Mrs. Pat Middleton
and about all It contained, were burned
Vernon Middleton. their son. and Geo.
McCollaum were at noma. They had interior is hereby authorised en appuV thia act respecting the new entry and
built Uro in tho heater and, one in cation er otherwise, to designate a wtta all the provision of xlsting
th cook stove, cooked their bteekf eat slock-raising tanda subject to entry homestead law except aa modified
but had not eaten. The boy had gone under thia act land, the aurfaca of herein; provided that th. landa so re
to the pene to feed some buck and which is, in hia opinion, chiefly val- limmlahed or reconvey d aa herein
smelt pine burning and the roof waa uable for gracing and railing forage provided .hall thereafter bo subject
biasing when they saw It first They crops, do not contain merchanteble to disposition only on such term and
ran to the houae, got out aome of tho timber, are not auareptiblo of irriga- under aoch rules and regulation, ac
bedding, it waa only aeven minutec in tion from any known source of water the aecretery of the Interior may
burning tha roof off and falling. Tho supply, and are of each character prescribe,
walla ware made of hewed pin. loga, that M0 acre are reasonably re- "Sec. 8. That the commutation pro-
Hnma nf tha thinn tha bova carried auired for the support of a family. visions of tha homeataad kail
from tha house burned, the Arc wa
so not ana tne wind so ntgn. nr,
Middleton had Just hauled out a load dar tho homestead laws of Und so
of provisions, such a a sack of sugar, designated by the secretary of the in
frijolee, boxof coffee, several hundred terior, according to legal subdivisions,
pound of flour, now shoe, and many in area not exceeding 040 aerea, and
other thing, namely a load of aalt In compact form so far as may be sub
and grain. Mr. Middleton wa hare In ject to the provisions of this act, and
Carlsbad, coming down the Friday be- secure title thereto by compliance with
fore with a sick baby, and Mr. Mid- the terms of the homestead laws; pro
dleten came down the Tuesday after vided, that instead of cultivating aa
to help nana the baby. They got the required by the home.tead lawa the
new. the aame evening and Pat left ' entrymen .hall be required to make
Saturday with Dolph Shattuck for I permanent improvements upon the
Queen. Nothing wa. saved from the land entered before final proof of
kitchen, the heavy logs mashing the, the same for stock-raising purposes,
toy. ta bite and ruining the pans, of the value of not leas than 1.25
They lost all their elothaa. nnlv a few ' nar acre, and at least one-half of eueh
drssssa for the children that she brot
with her were left all tha trunk also
burned. Thla was a very unfortunate
loss, happening in winter, tha family
all having boca Ul, with tha buy
son, th goats to be sheared and kid
ding on hand.
Mr. Middleton came down yesterday
with two wagoni to tak out lumber
Ed. Robinson being carpenter, will
help bim put up th house. No doubt
alt the neighbor will help a day with
the house-building. Will Purdy gave
them a nica bedstead and others nave
given them thing that will come In
good usa.
HORSE RACE MONDAY.
HMIMI
Mondi
day a very exciting rac occur-
red on tha track near the Felix Mil-
ler piara three miles west of town,
The rac was matched by Bob Burns'
mar and a sorrel horse of Walter
McGotiagill's, and was gotten up by
Mr. Newman, of i'ecoe, and John
Warren, both of whom barked their
favorites to quite a sum. Tha mare
won, the rac being for 300 yards.
FULL TEXT OF 640 ACRE BILL-PASSED HOUSE
FEDERAL CONTROL OF
GRAZING LANDS.
American National Livestock Associa
tion Informed Bill Haa Passed
Hons ef Representative.
One of the most Important matter
tec on forest reserves
an. I graxing ,
land.
Pn.ldant tU.rH nt the nr.i.ilnn
yesterday afternoon received a tele-
gnm .tating that the bill covering the
matter had passed the house of re-
preeentatives, waa now pending befare
, committee of the senate which would
srrord tne am d est oDnortun tv ror tna
cattlemen and also the sheep Indu.-
try Interests to be heard In the mat-
ter.
The bill in question a. adopted
the house of representatives follows
mTa nrnvifl in, t rw Ir i-a i m i n r hnm.
mtmmJ. mA fn, niVi.P
"Be It enacted bv the senate and
house of represenUtive. of the Unit- than 640 acre., and who I. unable to' o.nt,, ,j .hall le liable to presented on tho floor of the conven
ed 8Ute, of America in congres, as- exercise the right of additional entry f ndH n cornpeni(.te the enlry man i,on '"'V w compromise resulting
.mMxl That fnm anil aftae tha herein conferred because no lands sub- - '. ii .i ik. from a conference last night between
n .in ire hl art it shall be lawful
fot ,ny p,ri0n qualified to make entry
under" the homestead laws of the Un-
ited SUUs to make a stock-raising
homestead ertiy for not exceeding
iun f ....nnmm'.ai.H ur.ra.arv.
-a Dublie land in reasonably compact
FOR THAT COIK.H?
8YRUP WHITE PINE MENTHOLATED
PENSLAR
We have all tha other, but we recommend the
above.
WHY? because we consider It th BEST.
EDDY DRUG STORE
PENSLAR
! ,
form, provided, however, that tho land
so entered shall theretofore have beca
designated by the secretary of tho
interior aa 'stock-raising lands.
Sos. X. That the aacretery of tha
"Se. S. That any qualified home-
kobo antryman may maae sniry an-
1 improvement shall be placed pon
the land within thro, years after tha
date of entry thereof.
"Sec. 4. That any homestead en
tryman of lands of tha character here-
ANDERSON SANITARIUM.
Chaa. Sawyer, of Loving, underwent
an operation the first of the week and
turned horn yesterday.
Otto Holwoll, of Malaga, son of
Mrs. John Hartshorn, underwent an
operation on the 27th for hernia and
other complications. He I getting a-
long nicely.
Serapio Medrano, a Mexican, who
was brought to th Sanitarium ten
days ago in a critical condition, died
on the 2Uh of pneumonia.
G. E. Donaldson who has been 111
with pneumonia, ha recovered and
will return to his home in Kemp,
Texas.
Jose Carralles, the aged Mexican
who had his right side para'yrd as
a result of a blow on the head, one
month ago, returns home tomorrow
fully recovered after the operation.
in described, who has not submitted
final proof upon his existing entry,
shall have the right to enter, subject
to the provisions of this act, such a
mount of contiguous lands designated
for entry under the provisions of this
act aa shall not, together with the a
mount embraced in hi original nntry,
exceed 640 acres, and residence upon
the original entry shall be credited
on both entries, but improvement
must be placed on the additional entry
equal to $1.26 for each acre thereof.
''Sec. 5. That persons who hav sub
mltted final proof upon, or received
f intent for, lands of the character here
n descriled under the homestead laws
and who awn and reside upo nth land
so required, may, subject to the pro
vision o fthis act, make additional
entry for and obtain patent to contig-
uous lands designated for entry un
der the provisions of this act, which,
toirether with the area heretofore ac
quired under the home.tead laws, shall
not exceed 040 acres, on proof of the
expenditure required by this act, on
account of permanent improvements
upon the additional entry.
"Sec. 7. That any person .who i.
the nead or a lamuy. or wno nas ar
thia met. Imnds of the character desrrib-1
ed In this act, the area of which is lass '
led to entry under this act adjoin the1
tract so entered or acquired may. upon
submitting proof that he resides upon
and has not sold the land so 7i'-' d
or acquired, relinquish or reconvey
to the United Sutes the land so oc-
cuoied. entered, or acquired, and in
PENSLAP
lieu thereof, within the .ame land-office
district, may enter and acquire title
te 40 acre, o fthe land .ubject to
entry under thi act but must show
compliance wft all th provision of
not apply to any entry made under
uiis act.
Sec . That any homestead entry
men or patentees wno anall be en
titled to additional entry onder thi.
act .hall hav for thirty day after
the designation of landa subject to
entry under the provtslon of this act
and contiguous to those entered or
owned and occupied by him, the pre
ferential right to make additional en
try aa provided in this act; provided,
that where such lands contiguous to
the lands of two or more entry men
or patentees entitled to additional en
tries under this section are not euffli
eient in area to enable such entryiram
io secure uy additional entry the max.
Umum amount to which they are en.
titled, tne secretary ml tho Interior la
authorised te mako an equitable divi
sión of tho landa among tho several
entrymen or patentees, applying to
rived at me age oi i years anu a . ,,, .nte,ed or patented, as Dr "T" .-
by citixen of the United States, who has PnvidelJ btf lhi. Ml., lor Duruoileg where conUgious diseases exist.U pre-
enured or acquired under the home- nio.,llet.rlnl, fol cull ut oUxmr . vent the spread in this country or
stead laws, nrior to the oassaire of . .J : u. -i.n such live stock scourges as the loot
CATTLEMEN IK
exercise preferential rights, such di
vision to be in tracts of not leas than
40 acres, and so made a to equalise
a nearly a possiblo th area which
such entrymen and patentees will ac
quire by adding the tracts embraced
in additional entries to the lands orig
inally held or owned by them; provid
ed further that where but one 40-acre
tract of vacant land may adjoin tha
lands of two or more entrymen or
patentees entitled to exercise prefer
ential rights hereunder, the tract in
.(i.ention may be entered by the per
ton wno first submits to the local land
ollice his application to exercise said
prelerential right.
"See. 1U. lhat any person who has
heretofore acquired title to land of
tlio character designated in tins act
under any of the homestead laws of
ine United States and wno is the
owner and occupant of the land so
acquired may purchase fimn tne tin
ited Slates not exceeding 320 acres
of stock-raising lanus, as designated
by this act, or unappropriated and un
reserved lands valuable only for grat
ing contiguous to his said nomenlead,
J.P,y h 1" .u'
?7 rXt,n.
under such rules and regulations as
ha 'CuÍYy President
g.'th " wftr th:h"h.rto,fonrt: at - ft " X&?2Z
kzjfixr Uw, ,h"u s ' th."utivo;
" m m . . vided for the appointment of a com-
. l.Jíílf.l. . i of three member, to go to
patenta issued under the provisions of u.-ki.. j i. v "
this act shall be subject to and con- W"n'"S&", "fJ'L?0?, J "
"ThwlthVh.1 'rEnt'to ineewE' The convention also adopted rolu
mi. J f1','1." tn Th. '" Coring the appointment of a
mine, and remove th same. me . ... .... : .J ...
i a min.r.l .u,u.it. in tariff commission, and demanding thai
such lands shall be subject to dispo
I
sal by the United States in accordance
iin tne provisions of the coal and
"" "ii'j i i.. .u-
of such disposal. Any person qualified
io locate and enter the coal r other
mineral deposits, or having tha right
to mine anu remove the same under
. law. of the United Sute, shall
have th. right at all l.mes to enter
' j . .. .i
J... I.?J r i,vn.n
i. u ij t, f ..wh
Dro,Dcting. Any person who haa ac
" lr, rm th, TuVuted Stales tne
, c'0, or other mineral deposits in any
n Und or tn, rjht to nlin, Bn((
.Ú. ..i
rtjmUVtJ Vllt7 MalllVs IMtmw I V-Ulitoj. casivj
1 . ' -
ñiinurtH suh i
much or th urraca thereor
r ... .
removing of tie coal or other minerals. f""ir. "PPJ"'K
first, upon securing the written con- " Pr"Jdnl; nd. ,r"'0'u-.
sent or waiver of the homestead en- tion as presented sUUs that "by thi.'
tryman, or tatenUe; sccoikí. upon resolution it is not proposed and in
payment of tne damages to crop, or " !" ? in'rven ion in th. rj-,
Sther Ungibl. In.provemenU to the public of Mexico hut only that a . uffl
owner thereof: or. third, in lieu of Plro aatabli.hcd as will n-
either of the foregoing provisions, up-
on the execution oí a good and sum-
cienl lH.i,d or undertaking to the Un-
ited Sutes for the use and Uneflt
of the entryman or owner of the land,
to secure the payment or such dama
ges to the crops or Ungible improve
ments of the entryman or owner, a
may be determined and fixed in an
action brought upon the bond or un
dertaking in a court of competent lur
isdlction against the principal and sur
sties thereon, such bond or undertak-
with rule, and regulation, nreacribed
1 a ln mwA In .MWlMltllM
k- ,k. . . - ,k.
be tiled with and approved by tne reg
ister and receiver of the looal land
office of the district wherein the land
is situate, subject to appeal te the
commissioner of the general land of-
a u-j l . . - i
t7:rr7lÍ A.ü:
VVLV,imÍT!r?Ld"JÍ?íU
nHat. nouttnn. ZTlarlñ. Th. h-
?ht tth? nrívisíoñ? of ?nl.M
refcrenc. toThe'Tsposition. it
cupancy and u-. of th. .urfaco of th.
and.
8c. 12. That tha secretary of the
Interior la hereby authoited to make
t aulkni tn male.
all necessary rules and regulations In
harmony with the provisions and pur
poses of thia act for the purpose of
carrying the same into effect
0
EDDY COUNTY HOSPITAL NEWS.
Master John Roberts was operated
on 8unday and la getting ,iong
wa.
Little Walter Smith, of Otla, was
operated on Monday and Uken home
the same dsy,
Mrs. T. K. William, waa removed
to her homo Saturday.
Mrs. K. Berry, who had a severe,
case orpneumonu, and her little dau
ghter, who had tha lagrippa will be
able to leave for Jackson, Mississippi,
in a f.w days.
Mr. Von DeWItt, of Artesla, 1. .till ,
Improving and la able to be up and protection for American lives and pro
around. 'party in Mexico and asking for a pa-
Mis. Anna Klauder la recovering trol of the northern region of Mexico,
fast from her recent operation. were unanimously adopted shortly af-
Miss May Harroun was operated on
Thursday and la doing nicely,
Mrs. John W. Moore and baby will
be able to return home in a few day.
Mrs. M. Williams, of Nadlna, left
the hospital Monday, but will remain
In town for a few wekc
If yoo MUST swear, cat! at tho Car
rent orlo and 4a it UgaTly. Notary
always ta.
CATTLEMEN ASK GOVERNMENT
TO PATROL BORDER AND PO
LICE MEXICAN STATES.
American National IJveatork Asee
riatinn Goes oa Record as Favor
Ing Federal Police la Houthera
Republic.
OBJECT IS PROTECTION
OF AMERICAN INTEP.ESTS.
Appointment of Tariff Commission
and Protective Unties on Imports
of Meal Also Are Kecommended.
During the past week the stock
men from all over the United
States have met in El Paso and
as many went from Carlxhad,
and nearly all are interested, the
following proceedings of the
meeting will be read with interest:
El Paso, Tex., Jan. 2A. A resolution
requesting the government of theUnit
ed State to establish an adequate pa
trol in northern Mexico to protect the
w" pud today by delegate, to th.
nineteenth annual convention of the
..,. 1 1-..,-.!, ....un, ft.
.W t -.IT Í . , M. au .11
meals and similar products from for-
i it n (.mititrtaa Ha a i H lmri mA In Imfwtrt
y". .. . . ,12
duties. Having meats on the free list
h" not MdutTd or CM or hefiltod
fon.umers and producer, have been
injured it was declared
Another resolution c. led upon th
iw.rnin.nt of th. United 1 Sute, to
P' " nr. 'mp. ""
and mouth disease,
The resolution relative to Mexico a.
members of various committees who
wished to criticise severely the admin
islration s policy, with reference to
Mexico and those who were determin-
ed to combat any effort to attack 1 re
ident Wilson or to demand an armed
, . , , . . . .
intapvoiil inn ih hh miirhi lashwl In wtw.
niit
' .-OT
portion of the repu.. He of Mexico,
h? Justly entitled to the same."
r iiiuv viiicjm i ui nipt wiiv ijjir"
tion of Dwight B. Heard of Phoenix,
Arii., as president of the American
National Livestock association gained
such proportions today that it waa
deemed almost certain to prevail at
the election tomorrow. I. W. Pryor,
of San Antonio, who was slaUd te
succeed, probably will withdraw and
take tha honor In 1017. It wa. also
regarded a certain that
Chayen ne
neifl con
would oc cnosen tor tne
ventlon of the organisation. ,
The second day's session of th.
nineteenth annual conventio of tho
American Livestock association waa
to consist mainly of etertalnment
for the visitors.
n th business session wag held.
In the forenoon. At 3 o'clock an au-
tomoblle ride was planned, ending at
rort BIU"' "hr "r-nd dr' "n"
J Jff"S?i -"h
"SSewTST
.. ..j ,k. c.....k a -i j ...in
HlZ, ÍI .J. " "I'-VL
-sonn. in l... ....imB in,n
vas to be a ball given in one of tho
principal hotels.
. " TT.p"Tk v" "Í"..-JT"
.J" '"v ,ur m
I Last night's program rnrhilsted of
"'""Arated )"' b' Dr- c- c- Younl
on "Hybrids in Central Asia," and a
discussion of the losses sustained by
stockmen from poisonou. plante by
i Dr. C. D. Marsh, physiologist on
' polaonou. plante in the United States
department of agriculture. Tomor.
row will be devoted principally te die-
cus.ion affecUng the .tockmen.
0
UEM ANU pkottctiun
FOR AMERICANS.
Except for a alight amendment pro
posed by Ed. hi Lasater and accepted
without debate, resolutions demanding
ter the American National Livestock
association convened for the second
day's session of ite nineteenth annual
convention yesterday mornjng. The
resolution follows:
"Whereas, during the last Ave years
in tha republic cf Mexico, by reaaona
of dissensions therein prevalllng.many
American ritlsen who were hi tho re
public ef Mexico upon lawful pursuit
Cesitlsaed oa last page, r -
J
