Inn mi, rial iitmry
Capital Building '
Published in the Mo
renci - Clifton District.
Population 15,000
The Oldest Copper Pro
ducing: District in the
State of Arizona.
AND riORENCI LEADER
VOLUME XVII.
CLIFTON ARIZONA, FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 191 6.
Dumber 36.
STRIKE
BY VOTE
IS RESUMED
BY THREE URGE
Proposition Submitted by Mine Man
- agers Through Henry Hill and t.
R. Webster is Accepted Federal
investigators Urge Men To Return
To Work in Mass Meetings.
MINE MANAGERS BACK HOME
Settlement of Strike Is Welcome
News Throughout The District
Everybody at Work Again and
More Men Wanted.
The strike called by Guy E. Miller,
member of the executive board and
organizer of the Western Federation
of Miners, to which a large majority
of the employees of the Shannon
Copper Co., The Detroit Copper Min
ing Company and the Arizona Copper
Company, Ltd., responded on Sep-
tember 11th, 1915, was terminated
this week.
As the ' Era goes ito press Friday
evening industrial conditions in the
district are rapidly assuming a norT
mal ' condition . The whistles at the
various hoists, mills and smelters at
Clifton, Morenci and Metcalf have
WORK
MES
been calling the men back to work sers. Davies and Myers, the two j listening likewise to statements from
since Wednesday morning. The ar- representatives of the Department of the managers, being in possession of
rival of the afternoon train brings Labor, who have spent the past ten real facts, we have reached a con
groups of former employees from weeks in an investigation of labor jdusion.
Duncan and other points who left conditions here, arrived in the dis- "We nave found out . just what
the district during the strike.. The-trict., -means have been' behind your hght
managers of the three mining com- The investigators arrived in El and your ability to continue it. We
panies, Norman Carmichael, Milton paso from a trip to the east where have gone to Washington and Indian
H. McLean and J. W. Bennie, ac- they accompanied Mr. Powell, who apolis to find out if additional means
comcanied by J. Pentland and W. assisted in the organization of the would be forth coming. The situation
E. Miller, directors of the Arizona
Copper Company, Ltd.; A. T. Thorn- Mr. Powell's mission to the east was
son. Assistant General Manager of to secure financial assistance to pro-Phelps-Dodge
& Co.', and E. E. El- long the strike, but met with fail
llnwood, General Counsel of Phelps, Hre. Upon the arrival of Messers.
Dodge & Co., arrived in the district Davies and Myers at El Paso they
on Wednesday evening. At the close called upon the' mine managers
of the week not less than 2000 men and were handed a copy1 of the
are again on the pay roll of the statement made; to Messrs. Hill and
three companies. This number Webster and at the same time were it wise, under these circumstances, to
will reach approximately five thous- informed of the efforts already made face the issue squarely . If you con
and in the next thirty days and at by them to bring about a settlement tinue this strike it must be on your
the present price of copper all of of the strike. The investigators re- own resources except such .conrtibu
them receiving better wages than , turned to the Sheldon Hotel and' af- itioms that can be raised by Mr. Don
at any time in the history of the ter going over the statement from elly, and let me tell you that most
district.. ithe managers, and being fully in- of the treasuries of labor organiza-
The settlement of the strike was 'formed as to the financial condition tions in Arizona today are' bankrupt,
brought about directly through theac-!0f the strikers, and the refusal of After our investigation we found that
ceptance by the men of the mine labor organizations throughout the pobably $5,000 a month is all that you
manager's proposition handed to Mes-' country to support same, again called can expect and we believe the best
' sers. Henry Hill and R. R. Webster upon the managers"" and Informed thing for you to do is to compromise,
in El Paso on January 8th. This them that , they (the investigators) and in urging this action on your part
proposition was brought to Clifton were ready and willing to advise and we wish you to understand that the
on Sunday, evening, January 9th and
in brief was as follows : '
1. Surrender of Charters of West-
em Federation of Miners and removal
of influence of outside agitators.
2. All workmen employed to re-; Upon their arrival here Messrs.
ceive full and adequate . protection . ;Davies and Myers, went into con-
3- No discrimination against any ference with Messrs. Hi'l ani Web
individual of any nationality except ' ster, Sheriff Cash, and former em
those guilty of violence during the ployees who were on strike, with
strike and this number not to ex- tbe result that mass meetings were
ceed ten in the three1 camps.
4. Managers agree to meet com
mittees of their employes with a
view of adjusting any grievances or
considering cny questions which the
eir.rloees wish to brirg up, tJe
ta;-itio;i of the managers . being
make conditions as satisfactory
possible for the employee?.
Tha men returned to work on
o!d scp.Is ot v.aies advanced to
in
to as
the
in-
elude copper selling at 24c. At this
prioe the taen will receive wages for
the principal classes of labor as fol
lows: Copper Selling at 24 Cents.
Per Per
Occupation Hrs. Hour Shift
Miners 7 1-2 45
Mucker? &Trammers 7 1-2 36
3.41
2.70
3.52
2.52
2.68
4.12
3.20
2.52
Timbevmen 7 1
Lal)orers(surface) ...S
Charge -wheelers .. ..S
Skimmers 8
Punchers S
Laborers S
Carpenters and
Electricians 8
Machinists and
47
31
33V2
51
40
31
G2 5.00
8 66 5.32
Boilermakers . .
IN DISTRICT IS ENDE
Other classes of labor in proportion.
The End in Sight.
Upon . the return of Henry Hill event, he said, the long struggle had
and Reece Webster from El Paso on taught one lesson that 'the workers
January 9th bearing the statement ; in the days of peace should prepare
from the managers, and following a for something better. Explaining
conference with Sheriff Cash, also ; the lock of financial aid he said
former employees who had served in jthat help had not come In because
an official capacity during the strike, the workers in the diatrict for the
a persistent rumor was in circula- ipast twenty -five years had not assist
tion that the end of the strike was led organized labor in other sections,
in sight. I He urged upon the men the dmport-
Sheriff Cash and Messrs. Webster ance of maintaining their organiza
and Hill continued their efforts duration and said If this was their pur-
ing the week toward an acceptance
of the proposition submitted by the
managers. An objection was raised
by the strikers to the importation of
Ithe former employees who ihad been
I in the company camp at Duncan. At
I a meeting held in ithe district on
Monday the 17th inst., ,the men ac
cepted the proposition from the man
agers with the proviso that the refu
gees from Duncan should not be
brought, to the district until a con
ference between the strikers and
the managers bad been concluded,
said conference to begin within fif
teen days after operations had been
resumed. This proviso was wired
the managers and promptly refused
Later in the week as a result of the
efforts of the mediators the proviso
was amended, agreeing to the re
turn of the refugees provided they
were moved in gradually and not
brought to the camp immediately in
a if.lw TVila nmnnaitlrtn wna nrA-
4 1 "
sented to the managers
Inst FVidav
ana while awaiting, a response Mes-
district at the beginning of the strike,
urge the former employees of the
'companies to accept the proposition.
; Upon this statement from the investt
gators, the managers requested them
;to proceed to Clifton at once
called in the district for last Sunday
rnd Monday in Clifton, Morenci and
Me teal 1, to listen to a statement from
the Federal Tnvest'sc tors and take a
vie c""i 'he Hill-Webster proposition
front the managers.
The Mass. Meetings.
On Sunday afternoon the Princess
T!:er.trj was crowded- to the doors
oy ?orr.-.ir emrioyess cf the Shannon
and Arizona Copper Co. Ltd., residing
in Clifton, to listen to the Federal In
vestigators. Jolm L. Donelly, Vice-President of
tbe State Federation of Labor, who
hr.s been directing the strike since
th'i expulsion of the Western Feder
ation of Miners, was the f rst speaker.
Mr. Donelly told the men' chat lie had
been over tbe proposition submitted
through Messrs. Hill and Webster;
that the matter was one for sett'.o-
raenf by the men themselves, and tbat
he would not advise them one way
or the other. He said the weapon of
starvation had been used in tills j past he had been an active and con
strike and that his hearers knew how icientious member of organized labor
many notches they had been compell
ed to draw in their belts. He was of
the opinion that the proposition was
,one that should not be accepted but
tha men must be the judges. In any
pose in the future to weigh well the
statement made by the managers as
through organization the men can
command more respect in the future
for their grievances
investigators Urge Acceptance.
Mr. Hywell Davies, Federal Investi
gator, folio wed. Mr. Donelly. He
said in part:
"Mr. Myers and myself came into
this district cten weeks ago as repre
sentatives of the Department of Labor
and we have returned to the district
at this time as peace makers. Our
mission here is to establish ' peace
and to do nothing but what is fair,
right and just.
"During our several visits here we
have examined more than a hundred
witnesses. We have listened to ithe
tales of woe and heard Tour com.
nlnlntn. Thes we have conveved to
the mine manazers where thev re -
hearing.
ceived a most respectful
iW hnvp rltaniissed these matters
I
!with them for davs and days. Hav-
ing gone over the entire
Bnuduuu,
appears to us serious. We tell you (
the sinews of war are not forthcom-
ing.
By reason of the action of Guy
Miller, who called this strike in your
district without authority .from his
exeoutve board, no organization.of a
international character, will help
you. No labor organization will
make any assessment for you. Isn't
investigators of the Department of
Labor bow the knee to po side.
j "As a result of our investigation I
want to say to you men that there
will be no more buying jobs in this
district; no more fake raffles. Your
committees will be received ' with
courtesy. The .thing to do now is to
clean the slate and forget the' past.
I believe your managers realize that
you and them have been too far apart
in the past. On your part you have
accomplished a brotherhood in this
district which you never had before."
Mr. Davies then outlined the man
ner of selection of the grievance
committees from the employees which
committee was to meet with the res
pective managers at least once each
month and assured die men that the
managers meant every word contain-
ed in their statement addressed to !
Messrs. Hill and Webster. In con- j
elusion Mr. Davies said:
"Having investigated this question
from all sides ! see in(this document
(the statement from the managers)
the machinery for your gradual bet
termcnt. This is the best proposi
j tion you can get. The sooner, you go
to work the better. That is our
candid opinion and that is our advice
'to you-."
Mr. Davies was followed by Mr. j
j Myers who prefaced his remarks with '
;the statement that for fifteen years
and that he owed his present official
position to that influence and that he
would be a scoundrel and an ingrate
if he did anything or countenanced
arty action which would be to the de
triment of organized labor. Mr.
Meyers stated that lie had canvassed
every phase of the situation, had con
ferred with all of . the leaders of the
movement and concluded:
"I "speak from an honest heart
when I recommend to you the adop
tion of this proposition without any
changes under the present conditions.
T n n 1 . ai l . a .,
' " 01 v co.ieague
" "r ' "
is for the best interests for yourselves
and all concerned."
A resolution was then introduced
favoring a return to work under ithe
proposition as submitted. A number
of men wanted more time to study
the proposition and to consult with
the employees at Morenci and Met-
calf. The executive committee
thought it best to ?ote on the ' mo
tion immediaely and upon a vote be
ing taken the resolution was defeated
by a majority of twenty-eight votes.
Immediately following the announce
ment of the vote it was decided to
hold another meeting at union head
quarters on Monday . night. At
which meeting the Clifton employees
voted unanimously to accept - the proposed to stage- .the go, desired a
proposition of the managers. !real and understandable construc-
Messrs. Davies and Myers went to 'tion of Arizona's laws.
Metcalf Monday morning at ten j About three years ago, when Geo.
o'clock where a mass meeting was Memsic and Herbert Gorcister were
held and the proposition from the staging light and welterweight match
managers outlined to the employees es liere. The Republican secured
in that camp. Without much loss from the then county attorney, Frank
of time following the talk of Messrs. jH. Lyman, the statement tbat boxing
Davies and Meyers the men voted
unanimously to return to work.
This was followed by similar ac -
tion on the part of the Morenci men
at two o'clock Monday afternoon and
iat Clifton at seven o'clock in
the
eventaff. By a vote of the, strikers
the long struggle was at an end.
At Morenci on Monday Mr. Donelly
advised the men to
return to work
.1 1 . . . ,1 npnn 4 .... .
BUU a,a" "c Jui"-
in
receipt 01 a teiepnoue message iruui
, -
orouier roweu reLuiuuieuuius luat
the men accept the proposition from
the managers.
FurvhoHv Haonv.
to. of th maSH TtiAfitinirs
hV4 on Monday spread throughout
the district rapidly. "Well, I'm glad
its all over," was the universal ex-
nression heard on. every hand. At
the conclusion of the mass meeting
in Morerici the old skating rink rang
the- cheers of the men as they
, lM . ... , .
1
jnal8 ln lne alr' " n" "le . WU'BU"
Sternum HU1 called the i-m back
to worK weanesaay niorumg uie uicu
gathered andiundlged in an impromptu
celebration .
Business men have been keepin?
the wires . hot since Wednesday or
dering supplies and tre camps in the
district are again presenting their-
usual spectacle of activity and . in
dustry. -
SWIMMER DARES
GILA FLDOD JO
LAY WIRES
Swim
Ccrpstein Undertakes
to
Stream and Establish Communica
tion for the City of Phoenix.
PHOENIX, Jan. 25. In a desperate
effort to restore wire communication
across the Gila river, William Corp-
stein.known as the best swimmer and
diver in Arizona, has left to make an
elfort to swim the swollen stream and
to carry a line across by which the
wires may be drawn over.
The work is being undertaken joint
ly, it is stated by the Western Union
jTelegraph company and the Mountain
States Telephone & Telepgraph com
pany. The lines of both concerns
across the Gila went down with the
destruction of the bridge, and no
boat can live for a moment in the
boiling floods.
Corpstein volunteered to make the
attempt and claimed, it is said, that
- !ule flood had 110 terrors for him and
- j that he would set a line across if hu-
iman and strength ' could turn the 1
; trick.
J ne was (aivous for his high diving :
'exnloits when the pool at Riverside
was .full of viiter instead of sand and
mud as at this time.
.
Dick Wall, driver for the Can-sler
& Albrecht stage line, is expected
back in Clifton the first of the week
when he will resume his former run
between Clil'ton and Morenci.
ATTORNEY GENERAL
AGIST PRIZE
FIGHT
Attorney General of State Gives
Opinion On Question to Oatman
Fight Fans.
Any lack of definiteness about Ari
zona's laws regarding pugilistic exhi-'
bitions was ended yesterday when At
torney General Wiley Jones construed
the law for Governor Hunt, Jn order
that the promoters of the Oatman dis
trict might know. As a result, -the
bout between Jess Willard, heavy
weight champion of the world, and
Fulton, a pretender to the crown, pro
posed to be held at Oatman on July 4
next, is off. . '. -
Governor Hunt had the law looked
into at the request of the Mohave I
Miner wnicn, In behalf 01 tbe men who
machtes were being held at the risk I
!of the promoters andc principals. Al-
1 though the law at that time had not
been interpreted very clearly. It was
in Mr. Lyman's mind that a house-
holder might prosecute by means of a
'complaint of disturbing the
peace.
;The result was that boxing matches
iwere discontinued, and no public or
even sema-pubhc- set-tos have occur-
red in Phoenix for a long time.
Mr. Jones' decision means that there
is yet vitality in me Ola territorial 1
law prohibiting, boxing matches, prize
fights and the like.
, a. .
CANNOT ARREST RANDOLPH.
j
1 PHOENIX," Jan. 14.
Forlprai indue
William Sawtelle today granted
temporary order restraining the cor-N
poration commission from bringing
criminal contempt proceedings against
J01..Jfipes Randolph, president of the
!.,,
aiMwua uaaiciu. 1 aiii uau - - -it - uuca
not apply, however, to the attorney
general or county attorneys.
Last May the commission called for
certain dataXin regard to passenger
business which was not furnisned b?
th. Av!r.or.a Eastern. Aj order fining
the cttnrany 55000'. for contempt -was
issued in November and the comn.is- iB1Dle .mane, any search Tor the -sionei
s asked the attorn? gonoral to :child whIch wlu very likeIy never be .
bring criminal proceedings
the president. .
against
INCREASED GOLD- OUTPUT IN 1915
Value of Production Nearly $99,000,000
In the joint statement given out by
the United States Geological Survey
and the Bureau of the Mint the value
of new gold added to the home sup
ply from mills and smelters operating
on domestic ores (including those of
Alaska, the Philippines, and Porto
Rico) in 1915 was $98,891,100. This
shows the substantial increase of $4,'
359,300 over the output of $94,531,- if this paper the heartfelt thanks of.
800 in 1914, and was within $782,300 himself and wife to the good people
of the record production of Bg.eTSOO ;on the Blue who rendered every as
in 1909. jsistaace possible following the acci-
The gold mining industry was gener jdent and also to the people of Clif-
lly piosperous again in 1915, accord-
to figures compiled by H. D. Mc-
Caskey, of the United States Geologi-
r.nl Sllrvpv frnm nrolimirmrr annrtc
. . , - - i-.. ..... ...u. j . f - . :
received from th mines Fstimatac
made from these figures, which repre- iren left for their new nome near
sent oies sold or treated during .the Eenson Wednesday. ,Mr Leland Is'
year, as distinguished- from the out- superintendent of the American Tung
put was even higher, and that it!sten ComPanv. o-se properties are
approached, if it did not actually pass I
rhe $100,000,000 mark; but some of
the cJ- and concentrates Droduced
from the mines and mills can not be
smelted until 191G, and the - refined
Igold did not become available
for
consumption in 1915.
j An increase in the yield of gold is
indicated by the mine returns from
j every important sold mining State
and a decrease is reported only' from j though located at present; at Lords
Washington, while the output of iurg, arrived in Clifton this.. week
Idaho remains tbe same. The prin- jn the interest of the State Federa
iucreases were reported from Oregon, jtion of Labor, relieving Vice-Presi-Sout'u
Dakota and Arizona. x jdent John L. Donelly, who paid a
in Utah, over $4S0,000 in Nevada, and j visit to Miami, returning to the dis-
over $300,000 in New Mexico. Smaller
Among the Clifton visitors
Morenci Sunday were Mr. and
W. W. Dutton, Mrs. Peters
Prof. C. A. Goggin.
from
Mrs.
and
y
BLUE
16
Horse Is Washed - Down ' Stream
Body of Mrs. Reynolds Recovered.
By Searching Party Mother , and '
Father of Drowned Woman Coma;
to Clifton. . .'
A communication received from the
ranch of J. H. T. Cosper by1 the Era'
this week gives the sad ' account of
the drowning of Mrs. Delia Reynolds '
and baby, nineteen, months old,. " inO
the Blue River on January 16th. The
fatal accident occurred three miles
below the ranch of J. H. T. Cosper. r
Mr. and Mrs. Reynolds and their '
three little children were residents'
of Luna, New Mexico.' - They, had:
ben on a holiday visit to the parents'
ot Mrs. Reynolds, Mr.' and Mrs..
Isaacs, at Animas, New Mexico, and
were on their way back . to ' Luna,
traveling up the Blue in
when they encountered .-
a wagon,"'
the ''high'-
water.
They , were compelled
to abandon
MOTHER
AND
BAB
-DROWNED I
JANUARY
their wagon at the Baseline Ranger
Station and attempted to make the -remainder:
of the. journey, on horse...,
back. While crossing, thes Blue tv '
short distance .below u the Cospe,v
ranch, tbe horse carrying Mrs. Rey
nolds and the youngest, child in some
way fell in! the. water and before Mr.
Reynolds could give assistance- the.
T ' . ' "
hnMA n.Un J j.
Mr. Reynolds later saw the" horse
some distance below, washed out on
- .1 V W 1 .1 . 1 .
', 0
.iciuauuii iituo. cimsiren -ana maae
for the Cosper ranch with the sad
- news
J. H. T," Cosper and his two
sons, Dewitt and Wain, and D. Hale.
.and two Mexicans, started in haste
ifor the place. In the meantime thej
i river was rising rapidly
In making
,a close search they .found the horse.
;aboutone bxtlt -.mile; below and about.
of Mrs. Reynolds' ..iJBy. .this . time
al .was o ciock. ana pourtog - down -
o rpiu
.V" " ; F: e
further search for the. child.. '
:
Mr. Cosper managed... to eet their
uoay 01 - me arownea. -woman to ma
.rancn- about b o clock by swamming ,
- e !U "ace8, ' '" ."'
( The " river . conietnudnnomssofethxc' -
I- Tne rixer continued to rise for i-
-three days Vhlch. Tendered it impos-
found ,
j Mrs-. Reynolds was buried at. the ;
jCosper ranch on January '. . 18th, by
Ithe request of her husband." '
Mr. and Mrs. J. N- Isaacs,
Animas, New Mexico,..-.-. arrived
Ot
in
Clifton- last week, intending to
con-
tinue on up the Blue, on a search;
for the body of , the drowned child,
but the' continued , inclement weather",
and the high water in the river 'pre
vented them from doing, so. Mr.
and Mrs. Isaacs returned to their
home on Friday" morning. Before
doing so Mr. Isaacs called at the Era,.
j office to express through the columns
;ton for their many kindnesses during
weir stay-in our niist. c
i LcavC TOT
New Home
! -ur- a"0. Jirs. L,eiana ana cnild-
located about 12 miles from Benson
and in the future they will make
their home at the mines where a
j handsome new residence has
been
'eu ior mem.
Federation Officer Here
Root. R Bliss, Vice-President .of
the Arizona State Federation of La
bor, who calls Clifton his home al-
trict this evening.
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Qulnn arrived
in Clifton this week from El Paso.
They expect to remain for some" time
visiting with friends.
