the owosso Times
PAGES 1 TO 8
OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVII
OWOSSO, MICHIGAN. JAN. 28. 1916.
NO. 44
Leap Year Parties.
On Friday evening the girls of the
freshman class of the high school will
entertain at a leap-year party. The
young Jadles of the senior class have
Invited guests to a leap year party on
Hdtnrdav evening. Both affairs will be
held at the parish house on West Mascn
street.
Burglars at Parry. IQI
f!alvin Huff of
Perry was broken Into early Tuesday
evening and a large amount of cigars,
jick knives and candy were tasen
Th thief entered the building by i
back window and a mitten left by him
u tVifl rlne unon which tbe snerin is
working. The same night the livery
stable of A. M. Kearney or worries.
. wnarnltfln into but nothing was laaeu.
It is believed that the thief slept there.
It is expected an arrest will be maae
Tax Sale Hearing.
The hearing in the circuit court on
the netltlon of the State Auditor lien
eral for the sale of Shiawassee county
lands delinquent for taxes, has been set
by Judge Miner for Feb. 14, at iw
o'clock. The list is larger tnan usuai
and includes much valuable real estate.
nma or rne tax cimuio w
. . . . i.tn i 11 Via nnn
tested, nartlcularly special assessment
taxes in Owosso, including the Oliver
and Washington pavement assassment
by six residents.
Monshardt-Lathrop.
Miss Beryl Lathrop and Colon Mens
hardt were united In marriage Satur
day afternoon at 5 o'clock in Detroit, at
the home of the bride's sister, Mrs
Eugene Thorpe. Both young people
are well known in this city. The bride
is the daughter of M. U. Lathrop, rorm
erly of this city, and the groom is the
eon of Mr. and Mrs. Fred Menshardt,
and was formerly employed at the Ann
Arbor shops. He has accepted a post
tion with the Hudson Car company.
Friends extend congratulations.
Owosso Residents Must Have Mall
Delivered.
. v With:ty a, few x days new regulations
applying to tne -general delivery ser-
Vice at vue post oince wm ue puii iuiu
effect which will greatly decrease the
use of the same by residents of the city.
The intent of the law always has been
that the general delivery window is in
tended for transients only and that per
sons residing in the city should have
their mail delivered at some point
designated by them. An effort to bring
this about has been made from time to
time with varying success at the Owos
so office but now an order from tbe Post
Office Department makes it possible to
insist npon an enforcement of the regu
latlon and it will be put into force just
as soon as the persons who have been
accustomed to call for their mail can be
informed of the change which will be
made.
New Citizens.
Seven men were admitted to United
States citizenship by Jndge Miner in
tbe circuit court Monday. It was one
of the day 8 regularly set by law for
such ceremony. The Emperor of Aus
tria and Hungry loses five of his sub
jects; King George one; and the seventh
man was a German. Their names are
Lepolt Yanick, Mt. Morris; Frank
Strnad, Anton Petloch and Louis Molip,
all of Owosso, and Frank Joseph Mln-
arik, New Haven, Austrians; Ellis
Allen Neff, Caledonia, English; Carl
Wilhelai Langenberg, Laingsbnrg.
German.
The men must understand and speak
English and know sufficient or our
form of government to have a clear
idea of its aims and purposes. Each
was asked about thirty questions and
all answered unusually well. All were
much pleased to secure their final
papers.
The condition of Dr. T. U. Scott re
mains just about the same. The first
of the week he appeared to be somewhat
better but gains very slowly.
The Hickman Construction Co. has
bsen awarded the contract to build an
eight story bank building in Lansing.
The plastering of tbe armory is now
. -il 11 1 - .1 U V.
been commenced on the concrete floors
in the basement and the brick work for
tne swimming pool. As soon as this
work Is out of tbe way and tbe building
li well dried ont the interior wood finish
will be commenced.
tTbe brick work on the addition to
the C. A. Connor Ice Cream Co. plant
has been completed this week and with
the roof on it will be possible to com
plete the same before spring. Tbe front
of white enameled brick with white
terra cotta and red brick trimmings
presents a handsome appearance, niak-
n rr It nna nf tllA -lirtflt AttrAf'tlVA In thft
city. '
ELKS CALL ROLL
Owosso Lodge No. 753 B. P. O. Elks
held its first Roll Call meeting at the
temple Tuesday evening, over 250 being
served at a most excellent banquet pre
pared by Rube Beehler at 6:30. Those
in attendance came from all parts of
the county and several from other
cities were on hand to answer to their
names. The members of tbe lodge are
scattered from Massachusetts to Cali
fornia, Washington state and Washing
ton, D. C, and many points in many
states and a number of those far away
responded by letter.
After the dinner Exalted Ruler Nich
ols stated the idea and objects of the
meeting and called on Secretary Stan
ard to read the roll. Those present
decided that the names of all who had
been members should be called which
made a list of 920. Of the original 48
who applied for a charter 19 have died
or removed from the city. The lodge
was instituted Dec. SO, 1901, and now
has a membership of 677.
Most of the brothers answered "pre
sent" but several responded with short
talks including a number of good
stories, some remniecences, some good
advice and much good cheer. Several
"occasional" members who were caught
at the meeting were called on for re
marks including Morris Osburn, the
oldest member, being a few months
older than James Ferguson, who was
also present.
Music was furnished by Moorehouse's
orchestra and the very successful and
interesting session was ended with
"Auld Lang Syne."
Banquet and Receive Instructions.
Tbe D. M. Christian Company and
its employes held an enjoyahle and
profitable meeting Monday evening. At
the close of business hours tables were
arraigned in the aisles on the main
floor and 57 people eat down to a fine
picnic supper. Following the supper
D. M. Christian introduced J as. W.
Fiek of New York, who gave a very
interesting address on "Salesmanship,"
covering every point in a plain, prac
tical manner, with an occasional touch
of humor and inspiring everyone pres
ent to follow the very highest business
ideals. It was unanimously voted to
hold meetings eyery month at which
store problems of every kind would be
considered, as is now done in the lead
ing department stores in all the large
cities.
County Bar Association.
Attorneys from Owosso and Corunna
met at Justice Friegel' office Friday
eyenlng to form a county association to
become a branch of the State bar asso
ciation. Geo. E. Pardee called the
meeting to order and explained the
purpose of the gathering. A. E. Rich
ards was chosen temporary president
and Ellis F. Wilson temporary secre
tary. A committee of Geo. E. Pardee,
S. Q Pulver and J. H. Collins was
named to draft by-laws. The meeting
was adjourned subject to call of the
of the president. The association is
for the discussion of legal and ethical
problems and to promote cordiality and
social intercourse. All attorneys in tbe
county will probably become members
and meetings will be held monthly.
Judge S. S. Miner was present and gave
an interesting talk on law matters.
Annual Banquet.
The Baptist Sunday school teachers
and officers, held their annual banquet
Monday evening in tbe church par
lors. Fifty of the Sunday school work
ers gathered to enjoy a delicious three
course dinner, served by a class of
young ladies of tbe Sunday school.
The room was prettily decorated, the
place cards and programs being artis
tically painted and designed by Mrs.
Mrytle Wlckham Parker. L. O. Un
derwood, superintendent of the Sunday
school, introduced the toastmaster of
the evening, Rev. H. A. Walte, whose
fitting remarks and witty stories opened
the way to a pleasant and spiritual
program, the numbers of which were
as follows:
Piano solo, Eva Bilhimer: "Prepared
ness," Clara Osborne; vocal duet, Rev.
and Mrs. Walte; "Dollars," H. M. Mil-
ler; "Fun," May E. Lawrence; violin
solo, Cecil Jone9; "Our Highest Aim."
Miss Baughman; piano solo, Blanch
Sherman.
After the regular program, general
Sinday school conditions were dis
cussed.
Vern Satterla, a brother of Bruce
Satterla, a former resident of this city,
committed suicide at his home near
Hjwell on Friday last. For several
years he has suffered severely at times
from a kick in the temple by a horse,
and at times his mind was unbalanced.
It was during one of these spells that
he took his life. His age was 27 years.
MAY JOIN RACING CIRCUIT
--
Big Strin of Fast Horses Will Come
- if Dates Are Arranged.
Owosso was given membership in the
Michigan Sbortship racing circuit at a
meeting of the board of directors of the
circuit held in Detroit last week. Three
Ohio cities were eliminated from the
circuit and Ave Michigan cities added.
The other new members besides Owosso
are Ithaca, Marshall, Mt. Clemens and
Kalamazoo.
In the schedule adopted, Owosso is
given August 21 to 25. Secretary Dowl
ing of the county fair association had
wired the directors that Owos?o would
accept dates after August 27, and he is
still hopeful that the schedule will be
changed. Whether the dates given
Owosso would be accepted in case of a
refusal to grant later dates, is a ques
tion. The races must be held in con
nection with the county fair, and Sec
retary Dowling says that August 21-25
would make the fair earlier than tbe
management desires. This matter is
under consideration.
Y. W. C. A. HOME
Owosso Ladles Will Inorease Soope
of the Organization Work.
By a unanimons vote at its Tuesday
luncheon the Improvement Association
gave its support to the Y. W. C. A. in
its effort to secure a home, wherein it
may better carry on its work.
The ladieB will need about $4,000 to
secure a home for the association, $2500
of the amount is already available, and
a canvas will be made this week to
obtain the remaining $1500.
Mrs. D. M. Christian and Miss Leone
Baughman, the latter secretary of tbe
association, spoke to the members of
the Improvement Association Tuesday.
The secretary read the report of last
year's work of the association which
was a very creditable one.. Mrs. Chris
tian explained the need of larger and
more convenient quarters in order that
the work might be carried on and more
girls and young women assisted. v,
: Offenders Suffer. -v.
Charles r Kenyon, whose wife ''"fell
down stairs and broke her right leg
during a quarrel with him Saturday
night, pleaded guilty in police court
Tuesday morning to a charge of being
drunk. He paid a fine of $5.
John Irvin, formerly employed by the
Ann Arbor railroad as brakeman, was
arrested Tuesday morning on com
plaint of the owners of the Palm cafe,
who charged that he had jumped a
board bill of $20. Irvin left the city
recently, leaving word with the com
pany to send the money to Pontiao. He
came to Owosso Tuesday to learn why
the money had not been sent, and was
arrested. He settled tbe case by paying
his bill.
Emma Sands, the domestic who was
arrested in an intoxicated condition
Saturday night, paid a fine and costs
amounting to 114 75 Monday afternoon.
While her employers were absent from
the city she went to Chesaning. came
back intoxicated and was locked up.
She dazed the police with her profan
ity and declared Owosso and Michigan
was no place for her, and would go back
to New York.
Surgeons Organize.
On invitation of Chief Surgeon A. M.
Hume a number of the local surgeons
of the Ann Arbor Railroad attended a
banquet at tbe Hotel Wildermuth in
thia city Jan. 20, and formed a tempor
ary organization with Dr. A. M. Hume'
as chairman and Dr. II. A. Hume as
secretary. The organization will be
fully perfected at a meeting in the sum
mer at Frankfort, The object of the
association is to discuss their particular
kind of work, get ideas and methods
materially helpful.
After the banquet talks were made
by General Manager A. W. Toweley,
Superintendent A Sy verson and Super
intendent of Motive Power A.E. Osmer
in addition to the surgeons. Letters
were received from a number who were
unable to be present.. Among those
present were Dr. W. II. Snyder, the
company oculist, of Toledo, and Com
pany Surgeons E. B. Barlow, Toledo;
A. E. Unger, Dundee; E. F. Pyle,
Milan; R. C. Fair, Darand; H. A.
Hume, Owosso; M. F. Brondstetter,
Mt. Pleasant; G. E Lamb. Far well; J.
F. Grube, Meslck, and J. C. Ellis,
Beulah.
w t nL,, 1 reported that he had not seen or heard
Ma-or M. J. Phillips made a builnera from hl9 cilent and the defendant's at
t lp to Bay City In the mornicg and at torney fl&id the last he knew of him he
tended a meeting of the State Military Wft9 Ia jall. The other CRSe8 dlpmlP8e(1
Board in Saginaw, Wednesday after- ( were Johu vs. Amelia Ewing, Lillian
noon- vs. Frank E. Thompeon, Nina vs. Ed
E O. Dewey was In Saginaw, Wed ward Marvin and Emily vs. Charles
nesday, to confer with the State Mill- Sass. Lack of "Interest to appear In
tary Board on several matters cencern
lng the new armory.
Circuit Court.
The January term of the circuit
. caurt opened Monday at Corunna with
' ,ude S- 8 Miner Presiding. On
i Tne8(Jay the local option mandamus
! (ADA luna Vioursl an1 nn Thnrnlan tViA
i 4 . . t , , '
extra calendar containing 2200 old cases
was called and practically all tbe cases
dismissed as no one appeared. A few
were continued over the term. j
The case of George E. Bliss vs. Theo-:
dore E. Kramer, was reported settled, I
! and discontinued. Also the case of S. t
M. Hubble vs. Charles Cailard.
The case of R. D. Letts against the
Michigan Sugar Co. was continued
over the term.
The suit of Samuel Willis vs. Andrew
Geeck was reported settled.
Divorce decrees hays been granted in
the cases of Liddie ys. Hiram Sturgis
and Ellen vs. Dimitry Tnsnaldy.
Because none of the attorneys
were ready to proceed with any case,
the jury was excused until next Mon
day morning at 10 o'clock.
The damage suit of B. Leestma
against School District No. 1 of Ver
non township, was continued to the
next term He sued for damages for
being discharged as school principal.
Judge Miner gave Daisy Bruno of
Flint, a divorce from Frank Bruno and
ordered him to pay $50 alimony and $20
solicitor's fee. They formerly lived in
Burns township. She claimed non
support and also that he had taken her
money to buy horses and returned
without horses or money.
The- case of Albert Buchanan vs.
Frank Buzzard was dismissed, as was
tbe case of Andrews & Co. against A.
Bentley, James Bush vs. The Consum
ers' Power Co., and William Rutledge
vs. Alfred Luckhurst, et al, all being
settled.
All of the 15 Perry fire cases on the
calendar have gone over the term. The
action ia taken on the former stipula
tion pending the decision of the su
preme, court in the Hiram Stoddard
case. AH told 25 cases haxe been
brought against the Grand Trunk rail
road because of the destruction of a
large portion of Perry two years ago by
fire, v-
Jflmvs "Wigfall and Ernest .Wallace,
both 'colored porters -employed by the
Ann Arbor railroad, who were arrested
for violation of the local option law,
were arraigned Monday afternoon.
Both men stood mute and ipleaa of not
guilty were entered for them Wig
fall's bail was set at $300 and Wallace's
at $500. Both were told to appear in
court next Monday morning at ten
o'clock.
In the case of tbe people against Hat
tie Corcoran, charged with assault with
intent to do great bodily harm npon
her husband, John Corcoran, the de
fendant pleaded not guilty on being
arraigned at the opening of circuit
court Monday. Judge Miner fixed bail
at $100, when the case was put over the
term. Mrs. Corcoran produced a cer
tificate of deposit for the amount and
was released.
On the hearing in the case of Pearl
Llbbey against Sandz Libbey of Durand
for divorce, the plaintiff was not in
court and Judge Miner instructed her
attorney, F. J. Northway, that she
must appear next Monday and furnish
additional evidence. The claim of Mrs.
Libbey is that her husband associated
with another young woman and when
she remonstrated and ordered the wo
man from the" house, he deserted her.
The demand for an accounting, Geo.
Smith vs. Henry Kocek, was not ready
and was passed. Other chancery cases
passed were Absolom O. vs. Jane Halli-
well divore, and the injunction of Cloe
Darham vs. Henrietta E. Hovey et al.
The divorce case of Mattie C. Ward vs.
Henry Ward of Owojso, filed after a
few weeks of wedded warfare, will
come up this term, also Helena Mary
Oik's demand for release from Henry
Oik. The foreclosure action of C. D.
Sharp ys. D. W. Young was dismissed.
The Grand Trunk Railway's attempt
to make the Michigan United Traction
company pay part or all of the cost of
maintaining a watchman on the Wash
Ington street crossing of (the two lines
in Owosso has gone over the term on
stipulation. The trespass action of
Frances Bluem, by her next friend,
Clara Bluem, against Almon L. Chase,
the suit growing out of an automobile
accident, will not be tried this term.
Non appearance of complainants
cause (J the dismissal of several divorce
actions. In the case of Bertha vs.
Floyd Hewitt, the plaintiff's attorney
court, or announcement of a reconcilia-1
tion caused the court's decision.
The Ithaca Gleaner Farmers' Eleva
tor company sued the Sy me-Eagle com
pany and the case was on the calendar.
John T. Matthews of Ithaca, tbe com
plainant's attorney, was not in court,
but In that had nothing on the other
parties to tbe suit. Their attorney,
William R Franklin 'of Detroit, was
also among the missing. Tbe case of
George II. Clark vs. C. C. Wright of
Owosso, trespass, will be ready for trial
next week. So will the replevin suit of
Joseph B Angus vs. Cyrel Angus, aid
that of Riley Scott vs. John Crawford,
another of the well known borae cases.
Tbe chancery action of Fred J. North
way vs. the Union Telephone Co. of
Owosso, to prevent the collection of a
penalty when telephoue rentals are not
paid quarterly in advance, is declartd
to be. leady for bearing. The injunc
tion suit of Mate' Rika vs Clarence
Cudney was disuii-sed as a settlement
hai been reached. The divorce action
of Marian vs Stella Champton is ready
and will be heard this term. Frank H.
Rush, administrator, has applied for a
continuanc? in his injunction case
against Ella M. Perrin. The bill of
John Salisbury to terminate trust,
brought against David R. Salisbury, is
out of court, having been settled. The
divorce action of Carrie C. vs. Wm.
Svuis is ready. Wm. L. May, the
Owosso restaurant man, will get his
day in court this term in his divorce
action against his wife Bertha D. May.
ARGUMENTS HEARD
In Request For Mandamas Against
Board of Supervisors.
The application for a writ of man
damus against tbe Shiawassee county
board of supervisors asked by Louis G.
Heyer to compel the board to re convene
and order an election on tbe local option
question on the petitions presented at
tbe January session was argued before
JndgeS. S. Miner, Tuesday.
The case was called at one o'clock
Tuesday, with over one hundred per
sons in attendance, including members
of the board of supervisors, several pas
tors, several former, liquor dealers and
others interested in the outcome of the
hearing. . --,vi, .
Mr. Heyer was represented by D. G.
F. Warner of Lansing, state attorney
for ;tbe liquor interests. Most of the
facts were admitted by both sides, and
a minor amendment to the answer
asked by Prosecuting Attorney Pulyer
was allowed, no objection being made.
After a statement by Mr. Warner,
Judge Miner stated that he understood
the question involved was simply
whether more than one petition was
circulated and posted in tbe fifth ward
of Owosso and New Haven township.
County Clerk Nichols was sworn and
testified as to the filing of the pitltlons,
stating that the different sheets of those
from the fifth ward and New Haven
were held together by a wire slip, not
securely fastened together, and admit
ted the genuineness of the filing stamp
and other minor matters.
Mr. Warner then proceeded with his
argument, the main point and claim
being that if the different sheets were
fastened together thev were one peti
tion and were good. If the extra sheets
were not attached to tbe first one they
were bad, but would not make the filed
one bad, that is if two or more can be
filed as one, then any one of them is a
petition in tbe absence of the other.
Mr. Warner believed that several peti
tions were circulated in the fifth ward
of Owosso and two in New Haven, but
were fastened together and constituted
one petition. He quoted many decisions
from many states and closed with the
statement that the stamped petitions
contained a total of 80 names more
than was necessary to compel the or
dering of an election.
Mr. Pulver in reply claimed that prac
tically every authority quoted by Mr.
Warner did not apply asjthe statute in
those cases did not specify fully and
completely the method of circulation
and posting and filing.
Mr. Pulver read the law, showing
that tbe statute states emphatically
(Continued -n page 4 )
New Caucus Laws.
Under thew new election law town
ship will have, to hold their caucuses
this year. 20 days before election.
Township committees will do well to
bear this In mind.
Harry Hooper, who recently came to
the city from Saginaw, wa at rested
Thursday on charge of defrauding a
Saginaw dairy company of $18.38 col
lected from its customers.
Remarkable weather conditions -have
prevailed during tbe week, tbe ther
mometer averaging 50 degrees above
zero and yesterday registering from C2
to 08 degrees warmer than some days
in July.
FORDNEY OUTLINES
REPUBLICAN PLAN
Demand Protective Tariff Anti-Damping
Clause and a Tariff Commission.
He Says He Regards the Anti-Dumping
Clause as the Most Important
and Tells Why a Tariff Board is
Needed.
By Associated Press.
Washington, Jau. 26 -Rep Joseph
W. Fordney, of Michigan, will make a
speech In the next few days, setting
forth the Republican program for In
dustrial prepared nesa. Mr. Fordney
will demand return to tariff, distinctly
protective; the enectment of an anti
dumping law to still further protect
American industries from foreign com
petition; and a tariff commission.
"I regard the anti dumping clause as
the most important provision of the
three," said Mr. Fordney. "The United
States must begin preparing now for
the industrial condition which is almost
certain to follow the war.
"Before the war Germany furnished
53 per, cent of all the goods Imported
Into Russia; she furnished 20 per cent
of British imports and about the same
percentage of goods sent to France.
If Germany loses in this war or it the
result is a draw, Germany will be dis
criminated against by the allied nations.
But her industries have not been and
probably will not be to any extent de
stroyed. MUST FIND OUTLET.
"She must find an outlet for her
goods and to where? German trade in
South America is already highly, de
veloped. The same is true of Asia.
She cannot add greatly to her exports
to these places. There Is just one place
she can go and that is the United
States. When this war ends she will
land on onr industries like a hawk on a
chicken.
"Germany has never taken great , ac
count of . cost of production in fixing
prices of competitive goods. . For In
stance, the price of steel and iron In
Germany, before .the Jwar, was $30 . per
ton, whereas she sold Iron exported to
other countries all the way from $18 to
$2? per ton, dependent on tbe condition
of competition which she encountered.
The price in the United States was
never above $23 per ton, although onr
cost of labor in steel manufacture
is
twice that of Germany and labor rep
resents 8u per cent of tbe total c:st of
production of steel.
"The German idea has been to bull J
up trade and overcome competition.
She has not hesitated to sell below cost
to kill competition, and she will not
hesitate to do so when this war is over.
The only way to stop this Is an anti
dumping law, under which a special
duty can be assessed where it is proven
tht a country is selling goods in the
United States at less price than the
same goods are sold for at home.
A
tariff board is tbe best means of secur
ing (his information."
ALLENS IN MORE TROUBLE
Treat Old Man Cruelly and Force
Liquor Down Him.
Charles Allen was arrested and bound
over to the circuit court Wednesday
for a violation of the local option law.
Allen, his brother and Harry Hoose
went hunting Monday and took a sup
ply of liquor with them. While out
they went to the Axford slaughter
house where they bothered Joseph
Wolcott until he ordered them off the
the grounds. Instead of going they
threw him Into a vat of cold water and
forced him and John Shields who was
working with Wolcott to drink liquor
and threatened to shoot them if they
"squealed." The matter was reported
by neighbors and the men called in by
the police and Allen will be punished
for bis offense.
The Aliens will be remembered as
the family which had a drunken row a
year ao In which one of them was
nearly killed.
Prinoipal Jones Resigns.
After several years of moat excellent
and satisfactory service as principal of
the Owosso high school, Prof. M. G
Jones has resigned and will become
active manager of tbe Brewer & Jones
trout farm in Bennington township,
lis will be succeeded by Prof. O. H.
Voelker, the present popular instructor
in history, when the second semester
ooens next Monday. Prof. Montie Mo
Fa lane of Alma College will become ,
a member of tbe .high school faculty.
While Prof. Jones' resignation Is re
gretted It is believed tbe work will be
well cared for by Prof. Voelker and
many friends wish both gentlemen tno'
cess in their new work,
