FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
'
4
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
ON TRAINS AND NEW8
STANDS FIVE CENTS
ii fiw hm M iffiiffiOT -3 hirfuwf
95-1E-AN11I GALE
SWEEPS CALIFORNIA
Worst Storm In History of State Leaves Trail of Wreckage
150 Oil Derricks Blown Down at Coalinga Inch and
Half of Rain in San Francisco In 36 Hours Southern
California Isolated and Floods Worse Than Week Ago
Damage Runs Into Millions
San Francisco, Jan. 28. The violence of the greatest
storm that has visited California in years was subsiding
today, leaving in its path a trail of destruction. After
central California had endured for 18 hours a wind which
at a few places reached a velocity of 95 miles an hour,
this section of the state found itself today cut off by rail
and wire from all of southern California.
The damage wrought by the storm cannot yet be ac
curately estimated in terms of dollars but it is believed
that complete reports will show that the loss has reached
millions.
San Francisco did not feel the full force of the wind.
Although a 52 mile an hour gale blew here, the damage
was only slight. During the last ?G hours, however, near
ly an inch and a half of rain has fallen in this city, the
record rainfall for many years.
The gale's violence struck the San Joaquin valley with
full strength, however. Dispatches, from Fresno and
Coalinga, sent before wire communication was interrupt
ed early today, estimated that 150 oil derricks in the
Coalinga oil district in Kings county had been blown over
and that the damage in that section alone would exceed
$750,000.
Hanford, Tulare, Visalia, Dinuba and Fresno all felt
the storm's fury. Most of the wires in that vicinity, in
cluding power lines as well as telegraph and telephone
wires, were leveled and many of these cities were without
light and power today. Street car service was practically
suspended in Fresno at last reports and many other val
ley cities suffered similarly. Trees were blown over in
many sections and a number of buildings of less substan
tial construction were unroofed. Tulare and Vasalia suf
fered the most in this respect.
To add to the ruin wrought by the wind, meager dis
patches today brought word that the Tuolomne, San
Joaquin and Kern rivers and numerous other smaller
streams are running bank full and threaten any hour to
burst their banks and inundate much of the already
stricken country.
So far as is known only one death
has resulted from the storm in the lower
San Joaquin valley. When a small build
ing in which he was standing was blown
down, Fred Hesse, n rich land owner
w:is crushed :id killed.
Southern Cnlifornin wns completely
cut off from wire communication with
the north and cast and it was impos
sible, parly today, to get any details
of the damage done thcuo. Last reports
indicated, however, that the latest flood
would exceed in violence and destruc
tion the high water of last week when
the damage was estimated at millions.
At last reports I.os Angeles had no
Tnil communication in any direction.
Flood waters had washed oiit the tracks
in a number of places or had weakened
the roadbeds and bridge support! so
that railroad officials feared to trust
their trains to them. Xo reports of
fatalities had come from southern Cali
fornia, however.
Tlie wind reached its highest velocity
in the state at Toint Revcs when, for n
time, it was reported to be blowing at
!' miles an hour.
.
S Abe Martin J
I'h' han1r-t thing is tryin' t' think
n' sriinethin' t' snv when soiiichuddy
t.'iU von thev used t' know our wife.
"Ilmvr I'a. l; a Mnstn-he" flip IVr
M.nHii'. an' tither I'scful Hints" is
th' title of a little biml.let by MUs
I'.iwn l.ippini'iit.
Shortly after midnight the tempera
ture dropped sharply in San Francisco
and the weather bureau reported that
snow fell. It melted, nowever, as sooi
as it reached the ground.
Citrus Belt Demoralized.
Los Angeles, Cul,, dan. 28, (By
wireless to San Francisco.) Los An
geles and southern California are com
pletely isolated from the outside world,
excepting oy wireless communication.
The flood, waters, which swept down
upon the entire southern part of the
state yesterday, had wrought greater
havoc today than any flood in the pre
vious history of C'aliforna, although no
futilities had been reported.
A summary of the conditions in vari
ous cities of Southern ( ulifornia, based
on latest, advices, follow:
The .$1,000,000 Los Angeles outfall
sewer broke today in Knglewood and
the sewage threatened to flood the low
lands. The whole country between the
Los Angeles county farm and Santa
Ana is inonditcd.
The water runs two feet deep in the
lower streets of San Diego with a fifty
mile gale blowing.
Klsinore lake, which Normally cov
ers eighteen sq.iuro miles of territory
today covered fitly and the town of
Llsinore was completely marooned.
Floods Worst Ever.
(iarden firove is flooded to n detith
of three feet. The Kio Hondo is on ai
wild rampage and is smashing bridges!
in many jilaces. Santa Ana is isolated.
The Santa Ana river has broken;
through its banks east of Anaheim..
Residents of the towns of Tulbcrt
and New Hope hive fled from their!
homes. I
One hundred nelsons are marooned'
I at Murietn Springs. The nortrwe stern i
section of Long 'Bench is completely!
inundated. The situation in some parts
of that city is serious and policemen'
were compelled to go to the rescue of:
ninny. The schools are closed there. I
Torrents of water have undermined
Pomona 's streets; ll.ireuiont faced a
serious flood. i
Venice is flooded also, and boats nre
rescuing (ersons marooned by high
water in their homes. The high gale
which swept Venice last night unroofed'
several houses and the deluge of rain
overt lowed the city's canals. I
' Scene of Desolation.
Sunt i Baiharn and I'a-.'idcua
cl with no serious damage.
rip-
The Van Xuvs dnm has burst ami the
town of Van N'uys has been flooded to
a depth of lour feet.
The gale during the nilit blew down
Continued on I'ige Two.)
TO START LOGGING
lfaymond, Wash., Jan. 28.
Announcement was made today
by officials of the Sunset Tim
ber company, the largest log
ging operators in this county,
that within the next 30 days its
camps would be opened to full
capacity, employing 200 addi
tional men. It has been three
yearn since this company operat
ed full capacity.
Three Raymond sawmills, idle
for more than a year, are ex
pected to start up as soon as
they can be overhauled.
I
Went Ashore In GaleWreck
age of Life Boat Indicates
Loss of Crew
San Francisco, Jan. 28. Caught in a
sea churned to furious heights by a i'O
mile gale, the steam schooner Aberdeen
dashed to splinters early today on the
jagged rocks near Point Bonita be
yond the heads, and eight men nboard
her are believed to have perished.
Timbers crushed to a pulp, the broker
stump of a mainmast and pieces of the
bow and stern of the vessel crashed up
under the bluffs of tho point in the
murky dawn. But there was no sign
of her lifeboats, except tho broken
splinters.
Life saving patrols, who had braved
the windy night, felt certain the eight
men aboard could not havo escaped ex
cept by a miracle. The one chance in
a thoushand, they said ,was that life
boats had put over and gone out to sea
before the waves crumpled the ship on
the rocks, or thnt some other storm toss
ed ship had picked them up.
The men believed dead nre: Captain
Peter V. Knudsonj R..J. Moore, 21 28
High street, Oakland city garbage in
spector; Kdward Johnson, fireman, LI5
.Varket street, Oukland; K. J. Johnson,
address unknown; Louis Dc Cuttoni,
address unknown; Kdward Smith, ad
dress unknown; T. Turney and Martin
Oas.
The Aberdeen, formerly in the Seattle
fishing trade, had recently been used as
the garbage vessel for the city of Oak
land. Twice a week, she steamed out
to the open sen to dump her cargo of
refuse. Aboard her when she started
out of port yesterday afternoon in the
face of storm warnings and a threaten
ing barometer was Inspector Moore, in
addition to the regular crew.
As the night wore on, the vessel had
reached a spot where she was in the
very center of tho storm maelstrom.
That she battled against the ronring
winds to make port is probable. But
she w'us too smalt to win against the
gale.
First word of the wreck came in a
message to Captain Nelson, commander
at the Golden Onto coast guard station.
His men said the first of the kindling,
that they identified as the ruins of the
Aberdeen was pounding up to the beach
below the famous Cliff House on moun
tainous rollers.
Stock Market Strong with
Many Sharp Advances
(Copyright 1910 by the New York
Kvening Post.)
New York, Jan. 28. The movement
of prices on the stock exchange today
" ..n iiniiu in nt:riiiiK nun uic Itur-
able developments of the week than
it has hitherto been. Advances were
the rule in a number of stocks, and
th improvement was large enough to
attract special attention. Crucible
steel which closed at 07 'j yesterday,
reached 7Vt today; Mexica'u Petro'l
eum which wis at 102',.j rose to
105 3-8; while Lackawanna Steel went
from 79 1-8 to 8.1',. From the strong
est stocks it would hardly be judged
that the buying was sufficient to turn
the general list upward; but simultan
eously nlong with strength in special
ties, there was a fair degree of
strength in standard r.iilroad issues.
St. Paul advanced a point while F.rie,
the weakest railroad isiue recently,
gained nearly a point. This was the
case similarly with the Cnnndi.tn Pa
cific, reading, Northern Pacific and
Lehigh.
PBEPAMNG iOE FLOOD3
Missoula, Mnt., Jan. 28 Because of
the heavy snow fall during the hist few
weeks, the Northern Pacific ami (ireat
Northern railroads are already mak
ing preparations to protect their roads
along tho Yellowstone and Missouri
rivers against the floods which are re
vnrded as inevitable. The Northern
Hicific. railrjl I has opened a rock
quarry in Yellowstone county and is
rcbaukiug its roadbed.
GIRL OF J' IS "YOUTH"
San Frnncisco, Jan. 28. Holding thnt
a girl of 19 is still in her youth, n:id
that it is incumbent upon employers to
guard youth against the perils of ma
chinery, Justice IK'nsiiaw of the state
supreme court, has ruled that a laun
dry company must pay 1,000 to Miss
Oliver, of Los Angeles, for injuries she
sustainel from an unguarded machine.
IK DOCTRINE
F
TO BEPREPARED
After the War Europe Will
Cast Longing Eyes On
Country South of Us
UNITED STATES NOT IN
DANGER OF INVASION
To Keep America for Amer
icans Preparedness Is a
Necessity
New York, Jan. 28. Indirect flank
the western hemisphere is what the
t'nited States has to fear, if anything.
To geiird against this, she must be pre
laml both in a military and injus
tri::l way. She must think in terms
of the world, and abandon forever pro
vincialism. t
Such in brief is the keynote of Pres
ident Wilson's preparedness warning
that in the next two weeks he will
sound throughout the middlewest.
Ho first propounded it to the na
tion in a speech last night to the Rail
way Business Men's association hero.
It came upon the heels of a day of
speechmaking in which he had notified
the world that while tho United States
seeks no aggression, no territorial ag
grandizement, he and the nation are
not "too proud to fight."
Any fight, he suggested, will be a
fight to maintain American ideals. It
will be in the spirit of liberty in which
the forefathers of the nation fought
and died.
May Be Tarket For Europe.
Analysis of his speech led to the be
lief that he has information tending to
show- that the United States, or at
least the westem hemisphere will be
the target for European aggression af
ter the end of the world war. In this
connection he declared he could not
predict what the international rela
tions of the world would be from ono
day to the next and that 'tomorrow
was as certain to be as bright as to
day." He made a plea for the cementing of
friendship with the rest of the Ameri
cas, and suggested thnt they would
look at present to Europe, if the Uni
ted States were to take direct interfer
ence in Mexico.
In this connection, lie declared:
"Nobody seriously supposes that
the United States needs to feir an in
vasion of its own territory. What Am
orica has to fear, if she has anything
to fear, are indirect, runabout, flank
movements upon her position in the
western hemisphere. Are we going to
open those gates or are we going to
close them?
Only Real Leadership,
"lor they are the gates to
hearts of American friends to
south of us and to their norts.
the
the
Win
their spirits and you have won the
only sort of leadership and the sort of
safety America covets."
He explained that his change of
views as to the need of preparedness
has come with the change of circum
stances in the world.
No surrender of ideals was a sort of
motto he set for his preparedness
views.
"America," he said, will never bo
the aggressor; America will always
seek to the last point at which her hon
or is involved to avoid the things that
would disturb the peace of the world.
lint America does not control the cir
cumstances of the world and we must
be sure that we are fuithful servants
of those tilings which we love and are
ready to defend them ngninst every
contingency that may affect or impair
then. " 1
Is Against Militarism.
Whilo declaring himself not to bo x
partisan of any one plan of defense
ne announced he favors a phn of train
ing citizens whereby a vast number
would be available in event of war.
yet he emphatically declared his op
position to any system mat smacks ot
militarism.
He pleaded that partisanship be
bandoncd and that all parties stand
together in getting preparedness. The
need for united jction was suggested
in Ins statement tliat he oas sonuht to
maintain peace for the United NtntCB
against very great, and sometimes.
very unfair, odds."
J he militia plan, he said, does not
fit the needs of the country; there
must be a co-ordinate system, furnish
ing fully 5U0,0io tr lined men.
As lor the navy, ne suggested it is
so obvious a method of defense that
there will be little difficulty in get
ting an increase as desired.
In a second speech before the Mo
tion Picture Trade Board, the president
ni.'i'lc icieii'io-e to tJie number ot
"liars" who had come to hiiu witn
pleas for interference in Mexico.
To Continue. Compaign.
Washington, Jan. 28. Btck from
li"i:ousl rating that he is not only not.
"too proud to tight," but that he is
already fighting, President Wilson to-
(Continued on Vagu Two.)
I E AMERICA
SPRUNG A SENSATION
Washington, Jan. 29. Sen
ator Walsh of Montana, sprung
a sensation in the sennte today
by reading from what he said
were British orders to block
ade vessels in order to obtain
trade secrets from illegally op
ened American mail aboard.
From this mail "seized want
only on the high seas," Walsh
said that Great Britain obtain
ed secrets which her merchants
would use in undermining Am
erican commerce.
He demanded cessation of all
trade with the allies unless
they amend their blockade to
accord with international law.
The papers he read were con
fidential documents issued to v
blockade vessel, but packed by
mistake in an American mail
pouch and brought here, Walsh
said.
Nomination Causes Surprise
In Senate Was Considered
Out of the Race
BRANDEIS IS NAMED.
Washington, Jan. 28. The
White House today announced
President Wilson's selection of
Louis. Brandeis, of Boston, for
the post of associate justice of
the United States supremo court
to succeed the late Associated
Justice Laninr.
Brandeis is known as a radi
cal, with strong pro-labor views.
He played a prominent part in
the interstate commerce com
mission's five per cent rate
caso
-
. Washington, Jan. 28, Brandeis for
mally went to the senate at 1:1.1
o'clock this afternoon. There it cre
ated a sensation where everyono wis
committed in fnvor of one or another
of several candidates. Tho southern
members were especially startled, be
cause that inasmuch as Lnmar was 1
southerner, another southern man
would get the distinction.
On every hand were expressions of
surprise, for while Brandeis had been
mentioned and urged by numerous pa
pers, it was considered his chances
were slim by reason of having little
political backing.
Brandeis is of Jewish extraction,
born in Louisville, Kentucky. He was
educated in Louisville and Dresden,
and holds nil honorary A. M. degree
from Marvard. He was counsel for
Olavis in tho Ballinger-I'inchot inves
tigation; for the shippers in the ad
vnnecd freight into investigation in
1911; for tho people in cases involving
the constitutionality of the Oregon and
tllinois 10 hour laws and the Ohio 9
hour law.
He opposed the New Haven railroads,
New England transportation combine
and served on the arbitration board of
tho New York garment workers strike
in 1910.
He has written many nrticles about
the trusts and on labor problems.
The story is told of Brandeis that
some years ago, after he had establish
ed a comfortable practice, he inmiircd
of his wife whether she had had the
necessities and luxuries she desired ami
after she hail replied that she hail, he
determined to set the amount spent that
yeur as the standard for the future,
leaving the balance to be spent in up
lift work.
A strong fight agamst confirmation
of Brandeis' nomin.it inn is predicted.
Senator Wadswortii of New York
termed the appointment "astounding"
adding "I wonder what the president
hail in mind to name such a mini,"
"He is an able, fearless, progressive
man," said Senator Chamberlain, of
Oregon, "and a phenomenal attorney.
He would be a great uddition to the
supreme court."
"Socialist," said a New England
member,
"His name will never come out of
committee," predicted one senator,
"but if it does, there will be formal
hearings in which it would be proved
that he is a socialist."
Five Hundred Tacoma
Business Men to Train
Tacoma, Wash., Jan. 28 An enroll
ment of .100 or more business men
from Tnconitt is expected by the Ta
coma business men's preparedness
league for summer camp el American
lake this year, formal announcement of
which is expected within u few days.
It was said today the camp has been
decided on by the government.
I'oitlniid is planning to have a ramp
this summer, it was said, mid business
men from wml Invest Washington who
attended the local American lake camp
last year will likely enroll in tho Ore
gon camp. It is not doubted, however,
that Tacoma 's interest in the camp
will be shown bv fully .100 members.
ALLIES LEAVE
L NG ONLY AVLONA
Austrians and Bulgars Closing In On This Port Which Italians
Are Strongly FortifyingMost Important Battle of
Balkans Expected Soon Within Ten Days Teutons Will
Occupy Entire Balkan Peninsula As Far1 As Greece
Navy To Take Part
By Henry Wood.
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
Rome, Jan. 28. The allies are evacuating Albania ex
cept at the port of Avlona and the immediate hinterland.
The Austrians and Bulgars are closing in on this point
from the north and east, while official dispatches indicate
that their attack in one of the most important battles of
the Balkan struggle may begin within a fortnight. The
Italians are making haste in strongly fortifying the city
against the anticipated encounter.
The Austrian fleet probably will shell Avlona, and then
the squadrons of the allies are likely to hurl themselves
against the Teuton armament in what will perhaps be the
greatest naval fight of the war.
Within ten days, it is estimated, the central powers'
occupation of the entire Balkan peninsula as far as Greece
will be complete. The allies, however, are determined to
hold Avlona as they have held Salonika, Greece, inasmuch
as its stratgic positions are of great value. They hope to
retain that immediate vicinity as bases from which futm-e
campaigns for reconquering the Balkans may be directed,
Serbians, Montenegrins and Albanians who have not
already surrendered to the invaders are heading for
Avlona or into the island of Corfu as fast as they can be
transported.
Meantime, the Italians have already evacuated th.3
port of Durazzo or soon will and announcement that th
Austrians have occupied the city is hourly expected. The
Austrians are heading southward for Plannif to unite
with Bulgars moving westward in the Elbassan district
for a joint action against Avlona. , :
riff;,.;,,lu l,.i;,.vc tlml. the central
powers have decided to abandon their
proposed assault against onionnia un
til they have attempted to drive out
the possessors of Avlona.
Greece has long had territorial am
bitions in southern Albania, and hence
it is a matter of conjecture whether
tlin iinlrnl nnwern' cniiollest of that
land will determine King Constantino
to throw Ins support to tno nines or
to join tho Teutons in fear that the
latter may overrun Greece, if they are
snuccessful.
Great Britain's Loss.
London, .Tan. 2H. tlreat Britain's
losses in killed, wounded and missing
men to January 0 were 5.'!9,4(i7 accord
ing to figures in a statement of Pre
mier Asquith published today.
They were divided thus:
France: Killed, 87,208; wounded,
239,207; missing, 44,0.15.
Dardanelles: Killed, 28,200; wounded,
78,095; missing, 11,251.
l'.lsewhere: Killed, 12,070; wound
ed, 15,981; missing, 2,757.
Called to Colors.
London, dun. 28. Singlo men from 27
Seattle Had Month of
Below Freezing Weather
Seattle, Wash., .Tun. 28 Twenty-eight
of the last 31 days have seen tho tem
perature in Seattle below tho freezing
point.
All records of the United States
weather bureau hero for continuous cold
weather have been broken, and new fig
ures hiii.g up that are likeily to stand
for many years. Wenther statistics have
b"en recoided here for 30 years.
The Umpcriituro today was 27 above
zero, and it remained tho snmo lor more
tin, I, three I. .nil's after 5:30 a. m. Ac
cordl ig to Weathei Observer Salisbury
there tire no indications of a chango for
at lost 48 hours and probnbly longer.
In January, l!m:, f-eattie nan in days
f continuous cold.
THE WEATHER J
Oregon: To
night nnd Satur
day unsettled,
probably snow,
11 ii t Ii much
change in tem
perature; easter
ly winds.
k0
ALBANIA
to 30 years of age, who enlisted un
der the Lord Derby volunteer cam
paign will be called to the colors Feb
ruary 3, it was announced today.
Greece Between Tires.
London, Jan. 2.8. Tho fact that th
Rome censor passed the dispatch of
United Staff Correspondent Wood at
Rome, indicating Italy's decision !to
risk Austrian occupation not alone of
Montenegro but of the entire Adriatia
Scacoast ns far ns Avlona, caused as
tonishment hero today.
The dispatch is considered one of th
most important coining from Koine
sinco the Balkan struggle began, inns
much as it contnincd the first intima
tion of the course that Italy intends
to pursue.
With the central powers' forces
massed on tho Albanian-Greek frontier.
King Constantino will be threatened
with attack along all his northern
border. This fact might influence" hia
decision on important diplomatic ques
tions, and turn the scale one way or
the other regarding an open allianca.
with the entente or central allies.
Thousands of Elk, Deer, An
telope, Bear, Moose and
Sheep in Herds
Livington, Mont., .'an. 2S. Mora
than one thousand elk, one thousuud
deer, both white and black tail, two.
hundred antelope, seventy live moun
tain sheep and large numbers of moos
nnd beir, today are feeding within
half a mile of tho business district of
Gardiner, Mont., the official entrance
to Yellowstone I'ark.
Daily excursions tiro being run from
Livingston to Gardiner where largo
sledges drawn by six horses are hoard
ed for a drivo into tiie park. Tho un
usually deep snow has driven the an
imals from tho Yellowstone and Crazy
Woman mountains down into the low
lands. From Gardiner to Mammoth
hot springs, elk, deer, and antelopa
havo tnken complete possesion and th
sledges und automobiles running along
tho road are forced to await the pleas
ure of the animals beforo proceeding.
Further into the park, great herds of
buffalo, packs of wolves und coyote
nro feeding. Governoment scouts hav
scattered h ay along tho mails.
Tho snow this year is the deepest for
ninny bciisous.
Yon have to register If you want to
vote, so w hy not now J
