Have Paper Follow
Canton people going away on a vacation
cau keep iu touch with home events by
having the Lkadku sent to them.
^'OLUMB 27. NUMBEB 1.
LETTER FROM MONTANA.
Gunnel Rikansrud, Former Lincoln
County Resident Tells News of
Lake Basin Country.
Lake Basin, Montaua, June 10, 1916.
(heelings to the Farmers Leader
ami its Headers:
A sending an account of the cele
brailuu on Ousters tiattleüeld which
1 expect to be present at on June
25th. It is only a distance of some
sixty-live miles from the Lake Basin
where we Uautonltes have our Claims
There has l^eeu plenty of rain.
Crops are late so there will be later
harvest than usual. The mountain
scenery here Is inspiring, so Is the
high altitude and the song of the
fr ugs.
With best wishes.
Gunnel Rikansrud,
Lake Basin P. O.
Montana.
CKLKBRATJC ON CUSTER BATTLEFIELD.
June d. Comprehensive to an un
usual degree is the invitation list now
being prepared by committees in
charge of the ceremonial commemora
tion on the battlefield June 25 of the
fortieth anniversary of the battle of
the Little Big Horn. The list Includes
government officials, the governors of
states, pioneers, Indian war survivors,
the faculties and student bodies of
Montana and Wyoming educational
institutions, Grand Army camps in
the two states, and many others. Each
day marks the completion of new ar
rangements and indicates more
strongly that the observance will be
the greatest of its kind ever held in
the west. x.
Visitors from air sections will flncf
special preparations made for their
comfort at Billings, Hardin and Sheri
dan, and equal facilities will be pro
vided at each point for reaching the
battlefield on the day of the celebra
tion. It Is considered certain that an
Immense throng will attend. Long
special trains running from Billings
and Sheridan will be provided. Special
rates have been granted.
A feature of the memorial cere
monies at the battlefield will be the
reading by Gen. E. S. Godfrey of a
communication from Mrs.-George A.
Custer, widow of General Custer. Mrs.
Custer also asked General Godfrey to
present a souvenir, the nature of
which is not known. The St. Xavier
Crow Mission band an^gin Indian tom
tom band will furnish music. Thous
ands ufilndians will be present, garb
ed in full tribal regalia.
The Indian office is looking to the se
curing of the presence at the celebra
tion of hundreds of members of the
Sioux, Cheyene, Shoshone and Bee
tribes. The Indians will camp at the
loot of the Custer battlefield and it
will te the first time in history that
those tribes have ever gathered in
peace on one camping ground.
The program for the celebration
practically has been completed. Spe
cial trains will leave Billings and
Sheridan for the battlefield on the
morning of June 25, arriving at about
S o'clock. The trains will have the
Indian village for their destination.
At 11 o'clock Gen. E. S. Godfrey, a
survivor of Reno's command, will ar
rive with his party from the mouth of
the Rosebud and will approach the
village in a manner similar to that
employed by General Custer. From
the village the veteran will proceed
to the monument, while Indian bands
will furnish suitable music. Arriving
at the monument General Godfrey will
deliver a 10-mlnute memorial address.
This will be followed by the speech of
an Indian to be chosen by the Crow
tribe. Then a salute will be fired and
taps will sound.
The trains will leave for Crow
Agency at 12 o'clock. Dinner will be
eaten, and the afternoon's program
will start at 2 o'clock. There will be
an address by Col. Henry Hall, a pa
rade consisting of survivors, both In
dian and white, of Custer's campaign
and a program of Indian sports.
Miss Nora Wika went to Sioux
Falls, Monday to attend the teachers'
institute.
I
Frank Moseley, Moore's Hill, Ind.,
writes: "I was troubled with almost
constant pains in my sides and back.
44peat relief wKs apparent after the
first dose of Foley Kidney Pills and in
48 hours all pain left me." Foley
Kidney Pills make kidneys active and
healthful and stop sleep-disturbing
bladder ailments.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Miss Pauline Nold was a Power
City visitor Monday.
The LEADER is always glad to re
ceive communlcatlans that are of
Interest to its readers If you know
of anything that you think will be of
Interest write it up. Use only one
side of the paper and write with a
pen If possible or be sure it Is^ierfect
ly legible if written with a pencil. If
you send it by mall send your name
also so that we may know who it
comes from and it will not be printed
unless you wish but we must know
who the writeup comer from.
Miss Mabel Walters, one of this
years graduates of the Parker high
school, spent Saturday here with her
sister, Miss Dessa Walters, and left
Sunday to attend the institute being
held in Sioux Falls this week.
Mr. and Mrs. P. A. Anderson drove
up to Baltic to spend Sunday with
Mrs. Anderson's sister, Mrs. Simon
Hanson. Peter tried his hand at fish
ing and had almost more than he
could carry. Master tJhlllp Anderson
who had been visiting there the last
two weeks returned home with his
parents.
'E FIND this is the attitude of many
people who come into our salesroom—
before they know anything about the
Maxwell.
Not until the Maxwell is shown and demon
strated to them—until they sit in it and examine
the finish—until they ride in it—or perhaps not
until they drive it themselves, do they realize what
a tremendous value is offered in the Maxwell car.
It is not unusual that Maxwell value should
not be known to everyone, because it is uncom
mon to find such a car for a good margin more
than the Maxwell price.
The Maxwell stands absolutely alone in a highly
competitive field, for the amount of value it offers
for the price.
Appearance—The lines of the Maxwell are
decidedly attractive. There is no break in the
contour from the radiator to the back of the car.
The fenders are gracefully shaped. AD metal
parts are enameled or nickel-plated. The uphol
stery is deep and well-finished. From any angle
|t is a car that the owner can be proud of.
Touring Car $655
THE PAPER WITH TUB LABfiBSI PAID-IN-ADVANOH CIRCULATION
A LEADER In the Oauae of Economy and Reform, the Defender of Truth and Juttloe, the Foe of Fraud ami Corruption Ü8Pai
CANTON, SOUTH DAKOTA. FRIDAY. JUNE 16, 191b.
Old Settlers Picnic and Celebration
Canton, S. D., Thursday, June 22, 1916
W. C. Graham who gets his mail on
Route *, Beresford was a county seat
caller Saturday and had us enroll his
name on the LEADER list.
1. W. Seapy found a ladles handbag
in the road last week and has left It
at the LEA DER office where the owner
may secure it by describing contents.
Guy O. Thompson and family of
Beloit, having business in Sioux City,
Saturday took the editor and wife
along as passengers In their Reo and
they enjoyed the trip very much The
Iowa roads are certainly good as they
are as smooth as a floor.
Impossible To Get So Much
Motor Car Value For The Money
F. O. B. DETROIT
O. L. Peterson
Maxwell Dealer
Fairview, S. Dak.
About eighteen of our firemen went
down to Yankton Monday noon and
seven more in the evening to attend
the Bremens tournament. Had it not
been for Pierre having a band Canton
would have taken a $50 purse for hav
ing the most men in the parade.
A. L. Charrlin left Monday after
noon for the head offices of his com
pany In Chicago to find out as he said
whether he would be tired or re-hired
but we guess there is no danger of the
latter as they would have a hard time
finding anyone who can pull business
their way the way A. does it.
Motor—The engine in the Maxwell car is not
equalled by any other four-cylinder engine of its
size. And we know of larger and more expensive
cars that have less able power plants. The Max
well engine carries its load through mud and sand
or over the steepest grades without a falter.
Quality—The materials in the Maxwell car
are the best that can be bought and the workman
ship that turns them into finished parts is no less
excellent It is only the large production of the
Maxwell factories that makes it possible to put
such quality of materials and workmanship into
a car selling at the Maxwell price.
Economy—With its other attractive features,
the Maxwell is a most economical car to own.
Owners get 22 to 25 miles per gallon of gasoline
and 8,000 to 12,000 miles per set of tires. And
the car is so durably built that repair expense i»
negligible.
We are sure you want a car such as we have
described the Maxwell to be. If you will give us
a few minutes of your time we are sure we can
convince you that the Maxwell Car is an excep
tional value. Come in today.
Roadster $635
tnigijt of Hlatirp
John Co verdate, one of the old
timers in South Dakota, visited here
last week at the home of his daugh
ter, Mrs. G. D. Freeman, and on Fri
day took her and her husband home
with him to Elk Point for a visit.
Chas. Edland, Manager for the
Schoeneman Co., at In wood drove his
car over Sunday, loaded W. G. Lech
ner and family In and took them back
with kim to spend the day at his
home, bringing them safely home In
time to have Will feel the cold shivers
run up his back when he heard our fire
whistle blow for the first time.
High Grade Work
With its complete equipment and care
ful workmen the LBADKB Job Printing
Department does high grade work.
•1.60 PER ANNUMJ,
EDWARD WILKINSON DEAD.
Old Settler Passes Away at His
Son's Home Near Tea.
$
Edward Wilkinson was born Nov^
28, 1840, in Duanesburg, N. Y. When
he was three years ofiage he went
with his parents to Janesville, Wis.,
where he resided until her was 20 years
of age. After this he went to Deeatur,
111., where he lived until 1883 when
he came to South Dakota and settled
on a farm near Woonsocket. In 1895
he came to Lincoln County near Can
ton where he lived until three years
ago when he made his home with his
son Edward near Tea.
He was married to Nancy Jane MC
Uowen, Dec. 27,1801. Nine children
were born to this union. Six are stilt
living, two daughters and four sons.
Two boys died in Infancy and one at'
the age of 25 years. Twenty grand-*:,
children and two great grandchildren.®
are living.
Mr. Wilkinson has been a sufferer
for fifteen years from an Incurable»
disease. For the last three months
he has been a continual sufferer.
Every care was given him to relley»
his pain so far as possible but on the
morning of June7th weakened human
nature gave away and the spirit of
Bro. Wilkinson took its departure to'
be with God. He was converted lu
the Methodist church in Sangamon
Co., 111., in early manhood and has
been a faithful member of this church
ever since. During his last hours he
expressed himself as desirous of going
to be with loved ones if It was the
Master's will. The funeral services,
were held at the M.-E. church of this
city Friday afternoon conducted by
the pastor assisted by Rev. Schulte
pastor of the Lutheran church at Tea.
Short services were also held at the
home conducted by Rev. Schulte.
Theoasket and church were beautiful
ly decorated with floral offerings of
friends showing the affection in which
our departed brother was held.
Burial was made at Forest Hill
cemetery. The pall bearers were:
Ernest Wendt, E. D. Warner, J. J.
Johnson, Ed Zenner, Warren Millage
and Frank Beck. The relatives
present from a distance were Mr. and
Mrs. E. J. Hamblin, Mrs. Frank Luck
hart and J. T. Wilkinson of Marshall
town, Iowa.
ii: Us» Of Corn Leayes.
1
A Tripp county Inquirer asks the
following of the ..agronomy depart
ment, State College: If the,»leaves
on a corn stock are ripped and torn to
pieces and the leaves clinging to the
stalk are cut open by hall, leaving
fifty or more black wounds on the
main stalk, and In a few instances
cutting an open sore on the stalk,
when the growth of the corn Is In
blooming stage, or just when the
stalk Is shooting its ears, will it tend
to make the ears of corn smaller and
of poorer quality, considering atmos
pherical conditions normal? Do the
leaves help to draw food value or nu
triments,from the soil?
Reply. The corn leaves are to the
plant what the stomach and lungs are
to the animal, that Is,—they do the
breathing for the plant and assimilate
or help to digest the food. Therefore,
when a hail storm strips the leaves
off the corn, it Interferes with the
corn's ability to develop. Besides that,
the broken places are favorable for
the lodgement of germs of smut
which also injures the crop. When
the hail occurs just after tasseling
time, when the ears are beginning to
silk, and knocks off or ruins the silk
before it has been fertilized with pol
len from the tassel, the cob will tall
to develop any kernels. It is exceed
ingly difficult to give a fair estimate
of damage done to corn by h«.» as It
might vary all the way from twenty
five to seventy-five percent or more.—
Manley Champiln, Agronomy Dept.,
S. D. State College.
Send fifty cents today and have The
Sioux City Tribune sent to your ad
dress for three months. You will find
It satisfactory in every respect or your
money will be refunded promptly. An
Intelligent family can hardly afford.to
be without an up-to-date newspaper
these days when half the nations of
world are at war and our own country
may soon be drawn Into the conflict.
The Tribune prints the news quickly
and honestly and guarantees to stop
the paper when the time is out with
out notice unless a renewal Is sent.
Subscribe at this office or send Draft,
Money Order or personal check direct.
to the publisher.
pi*»
