VOL. LVill. NO. 144
PGFULATIOri C3,f
Cr - ( .
FRIDAY,: Jl'?. 16,. 191 S-
12 PAGES 4 CCLU
l.w, twill
r '
WiwC 1 k. J Co. i i
Th3 Dublin's Circuhticn in f.crv.ish h tz Tfoi d Ar.y CI;? I:r, cr.J i:a III:! .U:;c!a'Jca b th3' Largest, in Ccnn:sticut'b Prcpcrticn b th3 City V Population.
HI 1 iJ i
4 v
jii li w W SsIS
111
Teutons Requested to Resign.
London. Jan. 15, 10 SB p. m. The
chamber of commerce today passed a
resolution requesting all members of
German or Austrian birth, even if na
turalized subjects of ureat Britain, to
resign. -
TO TAKE STRIKE VOTE
OF RAILROAD EMPLOYES.
ONLY ONE VOTE CAST AGAINST
WILSON'S NOMINATION.
More Than 400,000 Union and
Union Men Are Involved.
Non-
R.M.BURKE DISSENTS
'?Av.22r From Petrcnrad Say That tha Austrians
, W 9
. Have Evacuated CzcrnoYiiz
New York. June 15. More than 400,-
000 union and non-union railroad
workers of America will vote within
month on the advisability of calling
a general strike to enforce their de
mands for an eight hoday and time
and a half for overtime as a result of
the meeting held here today. - j
HUSSIAIISTAKE 150,000 PRISONERS I!) 12 DAYS sSSdSS
promise offer to the men granting their
demands eliminating the majority of
existing double compensation rules.
Reports Fr6m Austrian Headquarters Say That , the Russian g 1
, . ' .mi. .i 'v .1 J r m. 'c 1 tumty to discuss rurtner tneir stand
Tronn Arc RMnw Held to the North and : t-ASt Or the on this point, but when they met the
. . men today they not only refused to
Capital of Bukowina-Westward From the Region of S&vSi
. i . ' . . , , differences' be submitted either to ilie
1 ti fair tr Austrians Are Counter-Attacking and tn- Interstate commerce commission or to
- It VUtU U Ul Oti Will IU OiUlUOiLO uu
benching thermelves for a Stand Agaimt the Muscovites
French Have Attacked and .Captured a German lowed. - t ,
j. 11 imucis nuu luu wvv i ... . (ino
the four brotherhoods of trainmen, en
gineers, firemen . and conductors who
attended the conference decided the
necessity for the strike vote at a secret
i meeting following the break. -I
A. B. Garretson, president of tlie
Brotherhood of Railroad Conductors,
. . ,7 1.1.. V. . , . v-i.niint m;n
Tne tTfncn on me biopbb buuiu i i j (nht ,,,,v,, ti, n
I - . , , . I 1 d. 1. L I VI 111 II .. It - 1 1 klUl'VVl II'M
1. Alort Hoinme,nmnwe8i, w jer- pnnter for distribution to all railroad
German trench. The Germans are
Trench on the Slopes South of Le Mortrlomme Ces
sation in the Fighting on the Austro-Italian Front
The twelfth day of the great Rus-1
iaa offensive against the Austro Hun
garians and Germans from ' Volhynia
Bukowina shows nowhere any signs
of slackening. -, All along , the - front
fresh gains for the Russian troops and
the capture of thousands of additional
prisoners and of guns, machine guns
and war supplies are claimed by the
Russians. .The aggregate of prisoners
now exceeds 160,000. '
"While semi-official advices from Pe
trograd give a report that the Aus
trians have evacuated Czernowitx,
capital of JBukowina, the latest official
communication from Austrian head
quarters says the troops of Emperor
Francis Joseph - are making a stand
north and east of the city and at both
points have repulsed Russian attacks.
In the drive westward from the re
gion of Lutsk the Austrians are counter-attacking
or entrenching them
selves in new positions for1 a stand
against the Russians. '
On the German end of the northern
front In Russia the Russians near Ba
ronovlchi attacked and carried. Ger
man trenches, but later were forced to
give them uip under strong pressure
by the Germans. Infantry attacks by
the Germans have occurred along the
Dvlna. river and In the take reritn
south of Dvinsk, but all f these were
repulsed, according to Petrogradi
still violently, bombarding the sectors
of Thiaumont and Fort Souvllle.
northeast of Verdun, probably prepar
atory to another Infantry attack with
the hope of a further advance toward
the fortress. -
Only artillery- activity is in prog
ress on the remainder of the front in
France and Belgium. ;; The Canadians
are still holding the positions recap
tured from the Germans In the vicin
ity of Zellbeke. where there is Inter
mittent shelling by both sides.
men. whether members of the brother
hood or not, i before the close of. next
week.
The caucus will consume at least
three weeks, 'Mr. Garretson eaid.
SCENES OF DISORDER
AND RIOTING IN ATHENS
An Employe of the British Legation
Attacked. ; ,
Iiondon, June 16. 4.45 a. m. The
The fighting on the Austro-Italian J Times publitfces an alleged uncensored
line in Tyrol seemingly has died down.
only artillery bombardments and small
Infantry engagements having been re
ported. ' East of Monfalcone, which
lies a short distance from the head 5I
the Gulf of Trieste, the Italians have
captured Austrian possessions and
made prisoner 498 officers and men.
Near Ffclahie, on the Tigris, the
Turks hare repulsed an attempt of the
British to advance, according to Con
stantinople. The - annihilation , of- 400
British troops on the Euphrates sec
tor" is also reported by the. Turkish
war office, rersian volunteers are de
clared to be attacking the Russians i
near - the Persian border,- inflicting I
heavy losses. .,
VANCE M'CORMICK WILLING v
TO ACCEPT CHAIRMANSHIP
Dsolarct His Selection by President
Wilson Comes as Surprise. -
Harrls'burg, Pa., June IS. Vance C.
McCormick announced today as the
choice of the president for democratic
national chairman, that he would ac
cept the post if elected.
"My selection by President ..Wilson
Is a surprise, for I have not sought
the honor of the place he suggests to
the democratic national committee,"
Said Mr. McCormick. "If I can be of
assistance to him, naturally I am will
ing to accept the place If the national
committee elects me, for I believe this
. 5s a great opportunity for service, for
, w can and will re-elect President
Wilson.
Mr. McCormick Is a governor of the
federal reserve board of the Phila
tiolphla district and if elected to the
chairmanship he will resign. He is
president and publisher of the Harris
burg Patriot and Is interested in many
financial institutions. He Is 44 years
old and a graduate of Yale, where he
was captain of the varsity football
team,
STEAMER BEAR ON ROCKS
- ON CALIFORNIA COAST.
despatch describing the rioting In
Athens last Monday night. -
Scenes of disorder occurred in va
rious parts of the town," says the des
patch. TThe center of disorder was
band of 400 ruffians composed partly
of secret police and escorted by 60
uniformed police. This group visited
the residence of the French minister
and the neighborhood of the British
legation and hooted - and howled ins-
suits at, the representatives of ttid
allies. An employe of the British le
gation was attacked -by the mob, but
escaped unhurt. , - :
- "The chief of police -drove through
the streets while "the"' demonstration
was on, but made no effort to inter.
i.ere. At a , military lete the same
evening members of the secret- police
were posted in an Impertinent manner
around the seats of the members of the
British legation
Forty-two of the Passengers and Crew I
Unaccounted For.
Eureka, CaL, June 15. Forty-two of
the passengers and crew of the steamer
Bear were unaccounted for In a tally
tonight, 24 hours after the San Fran
cisco and Partland Steamship com
pany's vessel had run on the rocks of
the Mendocino coast, northern Cali
fornia, in a dense fog. .
Five -bodies were recovered before
sundown. At that tune there were 134
survivors here and 29 at Capetown, '0
DEMOCRATIC PLATFORM
UNDER CONSIDERATION
Planks . Dealing With Foreign Ques
tions Have Been Approved.
St. Louis, June 16. Senator Stone,
chairman of tbe resolutions committee
of the democratic national convention,
announced at 1 o clock that it had ap.
proved platform planks dealing with
foreign questions, Mexico, the tariff;
miles to the southi .; These, with tbe f-1"1 preparedness and that the suf
five known dead, accounted for 168 of lrae naa ouner planus were suu un
the 120 Aboard the Bear when ahn oer consideration.
struck.
The- steamer, a $1,000,000 coastwise
The plank on Americanism, includin
President Wilson's suggestions as i to
f" - i ft
a l!S0i".i lj ullull
Gliossnbvfacloim
cages, rour in
o nominee Hughes
FROM LEADERS AND RANK AND
; FILE OF PARTY. '
Platform Has Been Drafted, but Was
Not Presented to the Convention
Adjournment Was Taken Until 11 a.
m. Today for Action on Platform.
Coliseum, St. Louis. June 15. Pres
ident "Wilson and Vice President Mar
shall were nominated by acclamation
tonight by the democratic national
convention." the ticket beine com Dieted
four minutes before Friday. ,
Contrary :to expectations, however.
the convention did not finish its work
because the platform was not ready
and it will meet again at 11 o'clock
Friday morning. .. r: -
It was announced in the convention
that the sub-committee drafting the
platform had finished it but that the
entire resolutions committee was not
assembled to pass on it and it was
not known when that could be done. -
iresident Wilson s plank charging
conspiracy among some foreign-born
citizens ' lor the benefit of foreign
powers and denouncing any political
party wmcn Dene tits ana does not re
pudiate such a situation, was incor
porated .In the platform Just as the
president had sent it from Washing
ton. . it was understood the president
Insisted the plank should be put , in
the platform in the. 'way he, had drawn
, Never Any Doubt.
There was never any doubt of Pres
ident Wilson's nomination tonight but
there was a possibility that some vice
presidential booms might- be brought
out in opposition to Vice President
Marshall. , They melted away, how
ver.-when the convention got in ses
sion and as soon as President W41-
son's nomination had been made by a
roaring chorus of acclamation. Sena
tor Kern, who renominated Mr. Mar
shall, cast aside a long prepared speech
ana simply declared:
'I nominate Thomas Riley Marshall.
ox Indiana, ior vice president"
To President Wilson's nomination
there was only dissenting vote, Rob
ert Emmett Burke, of . Illinois, who
came to tne convention announcing
that he was opposed to the president.
iiis vote technically made ; the presi
dent's nomination 1,091 to 1.
Russia tm 1 .v. '
e v- n i w, I i . . -i - v" ie mar-
.iwrommj virinai ior Detween 6,000 - and 10 000
Vlfillfc HUB. - -.
The Rev. Thomas A. 0r..ll.nk.
Roman Catholic Bishop of Cork, died!
New Tork, June IS. Fledees.
Ises and predictions continue to pour
into tne ears or Charles E. Hughes to
day from many republican leaders and
Snaeial mman.l t . I will refuse General Carranza.' flemyiH
t7nttx.TWo were h5at Trinit "church: Jthdwal of American" trpa
many callers crowded into thrsome- New Xork- ' . ' . I71C.Waa Iaid b?fore sident
wha cramped temporary headouart- , Ki ' r ' r-, . ISSSn,- ZD1, W almosJ
ers that the presidential nominee had in? .Clntm"t,n of Greece Is re- !1?ineouly with receipt of news of
virtually no time for conferences, but "ea i0r lanssa, learlng " wnicn tne camp
spent nearly the entire day welcom-1 a revoIuUpn In Greece , the Fourteenth Cavalry at San
- .. - 1 , . atuu;&eu ana
Pullman Co. Is in ths m a - fn. I three troopers killed. -
2,000,000 feet of yellow pine for 500 b0j v. -.-j b -steel
underframe box cars. . Border Commanders Given Power.
, f P""'Uve steps against those respon-
Ths general strike which has tied 1 "Jie for the new depredation were left
ing visitors.
. Plans Still In Abeyance
Party plans apparently are still In I
abeyance so far as , the immediate
national committee officer" - annnint-1 P all-labor except mining at Butte. I to the discretion of the borar rv.m-
ment of the executive committee, I Mont., has been caUed off. Imanders, whose standing orders are
designation of the date of notification I . . r If? Pursue into Mexico any hot traii
and selection of a campaign manager L, M ?ucce",or to eupreme Court Jus- fat they find. The development
13 concerned. The nominee expects I "T 13 Vul expeciea -to De ap- , was caned to the attention
to devote Saturday and Sunday to P0"1160- until alter election. I or tne de facto government and will
n - "? "np OI xne elements on which the
"n8 dt lau.uuu was causad hv I administration, in its ki t.
a nre at tne candy . factory of I.nmi. I ranza. will nreilioato t Qi.-n
After meeting the national sub-com-1 den Bros, at Hamilton, Ont I that the time' for withdrawal is not
. .. . . - ; - - - !" pa oecause Mexican troops are
o'viono or is per cent, were 1 not properly policing the border coun-
their consideration In seclusion.
To Visit Friend Near Providence.
mlttee on organization here next Mon-
riav nA will rt rr h. ar nnmA m nnlltlv-l I
cailers until Friday, the intervening declared on the common and preferred try.
PRESIDENT WILSON NOTIFIED
r - OF HIS NOMINATION
His Only Comment Was, ", am Very
Grateful to My Generous Friends"
Washington,-June 15-President Wil
son was notified at one o'clock to
night by Secretary Tumulty . that he
and Vice President Marshall had been
nominated by acclamation at the the
St. Louis convention. His only com
ment was:' - "I am very grateful to
my generous friends..'
SUFFRAGISTS TO APPEAL
TO PRESIDENT WILSON
NO MODIFICATION OF
AMERICANISM PLANK
Administration Officials Declare Pres
ident Will Not Consent to It "
I the activities of foreign born citizens
in wiKsnriJig lu muueiice lureign ana
domestic policies, was among those
and three members of the crew stayed I approved. ' ,
BhAawi until 1st a tnnie-ht pnoiiv ih I Chairman Stone eald the committee
- . 1 T " .T t- . i J
threw the auip s dog overboard with a wi" ""i uu-u. uiiuusn ua iu mm
light line, but he could not make the only democratic questions to deal with,
shore. A line fired from the; ship's He said the committee probably would
ran non rMrhnl anil a -raft nrn i-icrcrAA Set && nigllt SO as tO be able to Dre-
wnicn carried them ashore. ,. ipmuwiu m mo uiuvwiuim
Fourteen lifeboats got away from the aay morning.
Bear in good order. Even made the I
Blunt s Reef lightship, four miles away. I CHINESE STUDENTS ARE
Two morft TnarlA land At tho mniith nt I
Bear river, near the wreck, and one I uliAlllj r num JAKAN
cancrized and was : Inst. Vn r nn1 a
strong current were tlie only reasons Because or rinanciai stringency I heir
Washington, "June. 15. Reports
reaching the White House tonight that
some democratic leaders in St. Louis
favored making the president's Ameri
canism plank less specific In its de
nunciation of the activities of foreign.
bom citizens led to the declaration by
administration officials that Mr. Wil
son would not consent to such a modification.
It was said at the White House that
the president was so strongly deter.
mined to make a platform declaration
on the point which would raise a clear
cut issue that if persistent opposition
developed he mi:ht ask the convention
to remain In session until he could go
to St. Louis and make a personal ap
peal to the delegates.
WINSTED GIRL SHOT, : i
IT IS SAID, BY LOVER
A Year Ago She Was Slashed by An
other Suitor.
' Wlnsted, Conn., June" 15. 45Iary S.
r ... .llrt n -n- n a Vnn r fit. r.rvimt
hospital this afternoon, wounded by
a bullet from a gun used. It la claimed
by her lover, George Lombargo, aged
S7, as the. two were standing outside
the home of the girl's mother In
Rockwell street. - A year ago a dlsap
pointed suitor for the . hand of Miss
Cavullo clashed her on the face with
a knife. She was in Lombardo's com
pany at the time. 't
The shooting of Miss Cavtillo today
may result In death.
working in Waterville and Lombardo
also was employed there. 'The man
scaled a fence after using the gun and
escaped. ' -
given by " the ship's ' officials for the
tragedy.
Allowances .Were Cut Off.
BODY OF WOMAN
FOUND IN BUSHES
Peking, June 15. Because of fin
ancial etrlngecy, China has been com
pelled to recall from Japan about 2,000
students ..whom the Chinese govern
ment -was mnintninlnD. t Vi pro 1m varfnita
By the Roadside Near Wa tort own No schools. Several months ago ttiese
Identification Marks. " ! I students began complaining that their
- I alowances were reduced or entirely cut
Watertown. Conn. June IB. The 1 OH. They . protested - to tne Chinese
body of a well dressed woman was minister - in - Tokio, " who negotiated
found late today in some bushes by funds to bring many of the "students
the roadside near here. Tbere were no back to China. There was some doubt
Identification marks. It le believed that I in. China as to the advlsaibility of hav
she had been dead at least five days I Ins the students returned from Japan
The authorities have commenced an 1 at a time when the political condi-
lnvestigation to .determine "how she tions'- are so unsettled. - Most of the
died. . - .. .;. ... . I students are very advanced thinkers.
The woman was about" 35 vears old. 1 wholly out of eympatliy with the mon-
flve feet three inches tall, had light 1 archial movement and other efforts to
orown nair ana Drown eyes. She was I avoid tne moaermzauon or enma,
attired In a blue coat, blue skirt and I
lace shirtwaist - Seventy-three cents
was found In a paper in a pocket. The
paper was marked " Connecticut Brew
ery company, '.Bridgeport."
Disappointed That' Democratic Fail
ed to Sanction Federal Action.
St Louis, June 15. Leaders of the
woman suffrage movement have spent
the last four days in St Louis in be.
hair or a platform declaration for fed
era! action to secure the ballot for wo.
men were disappointed tonight when
they learned that the resolutions sub
committee of the -democratic national
committee had agreed upon a suffrage
plank recommending that the question
be at once submitted to tbe people of
the various states by their legislatures.
Members or the sub-committee re
fused to divulge the text of the plaiJc,
Dut suarage leaders declared that re
ports to them were accurate and an
nounced their intention of taking the
ngnt pacs to Washington and re
suming their efforts to have congress
act on the Susan B. Anthony amend
ment to the constitution unless the full
committee and the convention alters
the plank to suit them. "
.Failure of the convention -to declare
that suffrage Is a matter for federal
action, they said., will result in person
at appeals to President Wilson to urge
action ty congress to act and upon
Charles Evans Hughes, the republican
candidate ror the presidency, for
statement of his views .on tbe aues
tlon. - ... ..- -7 -
A-leader of the newly organized
Woman's Party said tonight that if
results are not obtained at the White
House or from congress the party will
immediately begin a campaign against
democratic members of the senate and
house and will hold them personally
responsible for the party's failure to
meet their demands..
TO PREVENT CLASH
. WITH CARRANZA TROOPS
American .Consul Notified of Position
of Mexican Troops Near Brownsville -
British trooDs
Kennan, Persia.
captured- the city of
IE llAD MANY CALLERS
The first ear of iuw whoa w .re
ceived at St Louis.
A general stnka Ihrnnriini.t -rvn
tutu a. imo ueen caued onT.
Thirty thousand mnnna mnmfUA
-""" w yicvueuueBi paraae. .,
i'oiv Upheaval in
Llexico Feared
ARMY TRANSPORT IN READINESS
AT GALVESTON
Fordham Untveraitv n.l.ki. J TO T IT ACT? rrni a
75th anniversary of its foundinr ,7" v . tM wrr. ITUUtUt
itora Had No Time for Conferences
Received Half a Dozen Invitations
to Deliver Fourth of July Addresses. I S& 78
Eeonomlo Conditions Are In a Chaotlo
State Secy , Lansing Has Drafted
Repy to Carranza Refusing to Re
call American Troops. , ( v-
The Boston Stook E
Boston curb, market will be closed to-
Washington. June 115.
i-Anslng-s draft of the
" Secretary
note - which
time being spent at the home ' of
friend near Providence, R. I.
No Comment Pending Notification.
Mr. Hughes reiterated today his de.
cision not to .comment on political Is.
sues until his notification of nomina
tion, which probably will - be subse
quent to July 4. In the meantime.
however, half a dozen invitations to
make Fourth of July addresses have
stock of the Electric Boat Co.
Steps to Protect Americans.
Clark College of Worcester. Mass-1 .. Antl " American demonstrations
graduated a class of 40 young men
Mass. I. " American demonstrations
' men throughout the republic, which will al-
with the degree of bachelor of arts. . so back up this declaration, .have
I n-urneu wnu tne growing seriousness
The German Admiralty in an official !of economic conditions to produce such
statement denied that a German U-? situation that officials here
boat sunk- the Dutch steamer Tuban- I lear a new internal upneaval soon and
tia. I have taken further steps to protect
Americans. An army transport is
LJ 1L. MfVIAMM i . I hAme holri In rl f n n rt n A
XZt!! : theSe UDder ceJveTfor "autTOns by XnVltLU Proceed to Mexican rts forfu
oi Pennsylvania since Jan. 1, breaking I UUULlrer ,las ueen oraerea to tne VI
all records. . I ciniry of the Mexican west coast and
tne navy transport Hancock, now tak-
consideration.
Dinner Guest of. Classmate.
Tlie nominee was the dinner guest
tonight of Samuel H. Ordway,
classmate at Brown university.
UNIQUE POINT ARISES
IN THE ORPET TRIAL!
Whether Removal of Frozen Body In
to Warm Room Would Make Cyan
Ide of Potassium Invisible.
An additianal S 3nn non in ing marines to Santo Domintro. will t-n
received from Canada and deposited at I 'rom that port to- Vera Cruz as soon
the New .Tork Assay Office by J. p. I aa he has completed her present mis-
Morgan z co.. - isiun.
J trmcial Report of Ignacio Raid.'
r-remier onana delivered an address I a .x. . . .
Af WAWmo t th. j.t.mt.. .v.;r- -"" -"? lc,De message ironi
srnta Z nerai Mann, bringing the first of
1 -' I TlIAl wnril
4 ITU. 1 .- . - " -
&uica Ul f oris. - t
A favorable resort waa ordered bv
the House MiliJsry- Committee on the
point I annufcJ Army Appropriation bill, car-
Waukearan. nis June IK
said to be -unique in the history ot tj"ns ?JtoJMM,000.
criminal Jurisdiction was brought up
today -at the trial of William H. Or
pet the University of Wisconsin stu
dent charged with the murder of
Marian Lambert It was:
Whether introducing a f rosen body
Into a warm room Is sufficient to
transform powdered
potassium Into a solution light enough
to lose its visibility.
Dr. Ralph W. Webster, a toxollgist
of . international reputation, testify
ing for the state, said he had viewed
many bodies, and that some of them
had been brought into warm rooms,
but that he knew of no record ever
taken .of. the attendant circumstances
lu the present case.
of the San Ignacio raid.
was forwarded to Special Agent Rod
gers in Mexico City for presentation
to- the de facto government. Secretary
uinsing aeennea to -aiscuss represent
tations that may have accomplished It
It Is believed. -however" that it was
presented without comment, in line
with the recent policy of calling every
case of anti-American outbreaks, ban
dit operations or attacks upon Amer
ican towns or posts to the attention
of the Carranza government
Vigorously Worded Refusal.
The reply to Carranza's note may be
sent tomorrow or Saturday. Secre-
Rasp Adminl n Wiu I tary Lansing has studiously declined
commanding the Sixth division of the to discuss it In any way, but it is
Atlantic Fleet was appointed Vice known that he has prepared a vigor
Admiral of the fleet ously worded refusal to withdraw the
troops, pointing out - tne rajiure of the
VV. 8. Holt. Arkansas member to the
Progressive National committee, an-
not.ncec ne would work lor th3 ejec
tion of Hughes.
. ... .
William Marconi t rooorted to have
cynaide of I mveDtea a device which will put an
end t danger of
ships in darkness.
collisions between
Mrs. Thomas J. Preston Jr.. "formerly de facto government to lend its coop.
Mrs. Graver r!lvelanrt . onusruiiv eratlon in hunting down outlaws who
Whether the cvnanlde of ootassium underwent an operation in Roosevelt have threatened the peace of the two
wnetner tne cynamae ot potassium I vt I countries.. '. The friendlv mirnnsM at
which caused Marlon Lambert's death
had been admlnisered In liquid or
srystal form is regarded as vital in
determining the precise manner of her
death. The state contends that . It
was a solution; the defense that it was
a finely powdered crystal.
While commercial cyanide of potas
Hospital. New Tork.
countries. - The friendly purposes of
the United States are understood to
Union College at its 120th com-1 be set forth in unmistakable terms
mencement at Schenectadv. - N. T I and It is believed the note also con-
conferred the degree of doctor of laws talns a sharp rebuke because of sug-
on Myron . T. Herrick.
Statistics gathered in Germany show
slum was accessible to both or Or- a P": L5"S h2f.10. 130.n8nhiS5
pet and Miss Lambert, the state con
tends the alleged purchase of a two
ounce bottle by rpet at Madison, Wis,
is a circumstance weighing the scale
against Orpet
of her navy totaling more than 600,000
tons to date in the war.
MEXICAN EDITOR EXPELLED
FROM LAREDO, TEXAS
gestions in the Carranza note 'which
many officials regard as insulting.
Date Set For Municipal Election.
The state department Issued the fol
lowing summary of its advices:
The denartment is In receiDt of s
Lightning setting fire to five tanks! telegram from Mexico City stating
containing 275,000 gallons of oil be- that the authorities of the de facte
longing to the Gypsy Oil Co, of Cleve- government issued a decree on Junt
land, caused (500,000 damage. , 13, setting the first Sunday of Sep
tember. 1916. as the date for holding
A bill to prevent foreign capital from Imucicipal elections. - It is stated thai
obtaining control of Spanish shipping I only persons who have not taken up
Thirty American Residents Led Him I was introduced by the government in I arms against the constitutional gov.
I rha Cnonloh a m Via. TAnss-"Aa I am-m. a. 1 11 Va 1 43 as 1aa4nm
Across Border at Point of Rifles.
the Spanish Chamber of Deputies.
,wCT Thomas B.. Clarke, Jr vice-president
ernment will be qualified as- electors.
De La Rosa Band Captured.
The department is in receipt ol
-Laredo. Texas, - June
bWne meTthis afternoonled Lee of !Le Harrlman NaUonal Bank, were telegraphic advices from Saltlllo stat
'?me ihii2nJt Jl married at the St Regis Hotel In New log that General Ricaut. who recent
xorn. 1 lv arrived there, has reported that th
trnnn. upnf in nuruil i f rf Ta J a "Rosa
nmenoan vontui uarretT at isuevo and his band, overtook them. It u
INJURED GERMAN SOLDIERS
r ARE TO BE DISCHARGED.
Not to be . Retained on Army Rolls
When Unfit for Service. ;
D. Walker, a. Mexican and managing
editor of Bl Progreso, a Mexican
newspaper published here, into Mexi-.
co at the point of a rifle and ordered
him under penalty of death not to re
turn to the United States. El ro
greso recently contained editorials at
tacking the United States govern
ment The committee also ; notified
other persons connected with the pa
per to cease its publication immediate
ly. . .... ..' .. .- . - ..: ' .. '-
ALSOP HAS NOT COME
OUT FOR HUGHES,
BOMB EXPLODED IN -v'-i ."-':".
' A MAIL POUCH.
Brownsville, Texas, . June 15. One
thousand Carranza soldiers, ordered to
the border some days ago to rein
force the , Carranza' border patrol, are
somewhree south of San Tgnaclo. Tex
as, and should there be a third Amer-
She had beensl ican punitive expedition in Mexico the
two DOaies or troops would clash, ac
cording to General , Alfredo , Ricaut,
commanaer at . Matamoros.
General Ricaut .'; tonight notified
American Consul Johnson of the posl-
Wrecked an Oregon. Short Line Mail
Car at Butte, Mont- '
i
Butte, Mont., June 15. A bomb In a
rofkasft in . one of the mall pouches
rirg transferred from a Chicago, Bur
l!reton and Quincy train to the Oregon
t'hnrt line here today exploded and
( -r.-PHo-i the Oiwon Fliort Line mail
' cr T!w? ra"lni?e. it was reported, was
. I to the governor . ef uta,o.
CITY EMPLOYES ON
STRIKE IN HARTFORD.
Demand Increase in Wage of 10 Cents
" - ':'. a Day.
Hartford," Conn... June 15. About 100
employes of trie city water department
went on strike today for an increase
of 60 cents a day. " The men are now
getting from $2.87- to $3.
This is , the second strike in a city
department here this week. About 40
collectors of ashes and rubbish struck
for more money Monday. - A third of
them have returned.
Demands of the men are under con
sideration by both departments.
- Berlin, June lf. In compliance with
requests from all over Prussia, the
war ministry has decreed that soldiers
who have been Injured to the extent
that they are no longer fit for military
service shall be speedily discharged as
possible instead of being retained in
definitely on the army rolls..
AH branches of the service are called
upon to hasten so far as possible the
work of determining what men are un
lit for. further service, and the author.
lties are instructed , that tfae loss of
military credentials by soldiers shall
not hinder their release. It Is believed
that Germany will . be - greatly .bene
fitted economical ly by the release Into
civil life of a large number of men who
perhaps no longer can ngnt 'but can
Lwcrk.
Is Walttng For Republican Nominee
to Say Something. .
Hart-ford. June 15. Josenh W. lAl-
sop of Avon, Connecticut member of
the progressive national committee
and i chairman of the state organlza.
tlon, denied emphatically today that
he had come out for Hughes.
"I am waiting for Hughes to say
something,"- said Mr. Alsop. 'T am
going to the national committee meeT
ing in Chicago. June 26 and may have
something to say after that. . ' ..
STRANGE WAY. OF GETTING
FROM ROTTERDAM TO LONDON
tlon of these men and the information I A Week's Voyage Around Scotland and
was conveyed to General James Par- - Enaland to Avoid Mine Fields
ker, commanding the Brownsville dis- I , ! ..... - - -
trict v- ' " I Rotterdam. Netherlands .Tiinn IK 1
week's voyage round Scotland and
England Is a strange way. of getting
from Rotterdam to London, yet this is
one of the latest indirect consequences
of the war. Ra'.fter than face the dan-
'gers of the mine field, the Rotterdam
.bioya has decided in future to send
all its Eat Indian mailships due to
call at ijondon by this circuitous route
instead of by the direct eight hours'
passage to 'the Thames. .-. . -
Movements of . Steamships.
London, June 14. Sailed: Steamer
Krlstialafiord, New York. .
Gibraltar, June 12. Arrived: Steam
er Patris. New York, for Pireaus.
Bergen. June 14. Arrived; Steamer
Andarua, New -York. :
Liverpool, June 14. Palled: Steam
ers Adriatic, New . Tork; . Kroonland,
New York. 1
INCORPORATION OF BOY
SCOUTS OF AMERICA
Bill Authorizing It Signed By Presi
dent Wilson Yesterday.
Washington, June 15. President
Wilson today signed a bill incorpor
ating the Boy Scouts of America and
giving the organization 'the exclusivj
right of the use of that name. Colin
Livingston, president, and other offi
cials of the organization and a group
of rankintf W ashington scouts witness
ed the signing. The president was
told that the membership was 182,.
O-o-O boys and 42,00 men. - .
Laredo, Mexico, has wired the state I reported that the entire band ' wai
department at Washington recom- I captured with the exception of De L
menaing tnat mis city De piacea under Rosa, who made his escape and board-
martial law. led a freight train which was en rout
trt Mmterflv. TTnon arrival at Mont.
mrs. neroen j. uuerney oi umncy, mt h was nlaced under arrest and
Mass., was nominated for president of I the local . military commander - at
the Massachusetts Federation of Wo- Monterey was Instructed to have D
men s clubs at the 24th annual meet- r,a Rosa identified. His followers art
ing at Lynn. , . 8ald to have been delivered to thi
Uffr(f.an . rnmmander at . TmTiflRnn
Miles Farrow, organist of the Ca- Tho were about fortv In the band
thedral of St, John the Divine, New land it is stated that they were, poorh
York, received the honorary degree of armed and that they were practicallj
uoctor ot music irom me university i without' provisions.
ot niisoonja. ,
TANNER PREDICTS THE
RETURN OF JIOOSEVELT
In Address at a Ratification Meeting
Held In New York. ?
New Tork. June 15. Frederick C.
Tanner, chairman of the republican
state ' committee, in an address tonight
at a "ratification" meeting or tne re
publican' county committee, predicted
that Colonel Theodore Roosevelt win
return to the republican ranks. No
1 ne. half hearted or acquiescent spirit,
but vigorously, full of fight determined
to play his part In ending the fiasco of
government now taxing place in waen-
ina-ton.
"We are all re5olcing tonight," he
eaid, "that ttie- party is reunited. A
reunited party epells victory."
Has Learned to Wait ' r ?r
; It is all right from a business
standpoint for each, side in the great
war to claim everything In a battle
but the truth gets out eventually, and
the public has learned to wait ior-
Ida Times-Union.
A strike was declared by the work
men in the South Norwalk branch of
the Dorffman & Oshlnsky company, of
New York city, manufacturers of wo-
men's garments.
A report that General Gabriel Gav-
Ira was tried, convicted and executed
for high treason Immediately upon his
arrival at Mexico City, became cur-
rent in El Pasco- last night. -
A big delegation of Virginians head
ed by CoL James P. Woods, of Roa
noke presented president Wilson, a
native Virginian, a copy of the plat
form adopted b ythelr state democratic
convention. . .
RESTRICTION ON BEER,
WHISKEY AND TOBACCC
Precautionary Measure in Wat
Economy Scheme in, England. "
London. June 15. Beer, tobacco an
whiskey are to be further restrict
as a precautionary measure in connect
tlon with the general scheme or wai
economy. ; -
It is stated now that the Ministry a
Munitions Intends to prevent all whla
key distillation, except such as intend
ed for the production of a by-produci
probably atcohol, which is used in tru
manuracture oi expiosivea.
Three women and one man were . The Board or Trade announces tfia
drowned In the Pamlioo river, near view or tne increasing scarcity a
Bath. N. C, when the small passenger tonnage it has withdrawn its propoea
vessel Marion, plying between Wash- to Krant licenses for the importaUoi
lngton, N. C, and Bath, overturned. OI womui pureauea TOum ieoiw,
Si xothers aboard the boat were res- I la- Jt however, willing to gran
cued. -' i ' ' I licences ior tne importation oi tooaocj
purcnasea oetween June i, am
May 81, 1917, strictly for home con
sumption not exceeding one-third d
the quantity imported during 1915. TtJ
inAa tint rvnjv tfVtnhfUro fnp ATTiArt ri
Followed Example of American Consul I for tobacco for dispatch to the troop
Garret, Who Removed to u. 5. I As the stocks held in -this countrj
amount to about two years ordinal
Laredo, Tex, June 15 It was m-1 consumption.- however, -there Is nfl
mored but not confirm ed here torright likely to be any serious inconvenland
that iMetwin consul Melauiades Gar- I to smokers.
cia Jn Laredo had gone over to the I Tbe Output of Beer (Restrtctiond
Mexican side for safety, following the I Bill proposes to prevent the brewing
example of American Consul Garrett of more than 8 per cent of their ou
who removed to the American side I put during 1916 as compared with ta
yesterday. corresponding period of l i li
MEXICAN CONSUL RETURNS
- TO MEXICO FOR SAFETY.
