First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boosf The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., JUNK 16, 1916.
NUMBER 17
Senators Boost For
Kahului Breakwater
Appreciation Indicated Of Importance
Of West Wing Structure- McCIel
Ian Makes Strong Representation
How the Horn of $250,000 for the
const rucHon of the Kahului harbor
west wing breakwater passed the
Senate as an amendment to the rivers
and harbors bill. Is told In the verbat
im report of the senate proceeding In
the Concessional Record of May 23,
and Is Interesting reading to Maui
folk. The bill, so far as Is now known
Is still in the conference committee,
and unless the Item is stricken out
by the conferees it must soon become
available. Senators George E. Chamb
erlain, of Oregon, and Wesley L. Jones
of Washington, fathered the item
when it came up, and Senators James
E. Marline, of New Jersey, and Reed
Smoot, of Utah helped to boost it.
The record follows:
Mr. CLARKE of Arkansas: The a
mendment beginning at line 20, on
page 42 was also passed over. The
Senator from Washington (Mr. Jones)
desires to be heard on that question.
Mr. JONES: Mr. Fresldent, this is
the item with reference to Kahului
harbor on the island of Maui, In the
Sandwich Islands, an item in which
the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Chamb
erlain) too, Is very much Interested;
but I know he Is detained by business
of the Senate. So I want to present
just briefly the facts.
Of course this Territory has no rep
resentative in Congress, and I feel .Ins
tilled on that account in presenting
he matter here. Kahului Harbor Is
the harbor of the island of Maul, and
the only harbor on that Island, and the
only way of getting products from the
Island, of course, as we know. Is by
ships. The Crovernment has expended
some money there In the construction
of a breakwater. The expenditures
have up to June SO. 1915, amounted to
$390,000 and a little over. This Is
page 1591 of volume 1 of the engin
eers reports.
When this protect was adopted It
was adopted subject to the condition
that the Kahului Railway Co. should
cede to the United States free of cost
its property there. The report shows
that they have expended for wharves
and docks and on the breakwater and
harbor improvement some $304,784.
The commerce increased at this port
from $1,800,000 in 1908 to a little over
$13,000,000 In 1914.
In reporting on the new project, the
Board of Engineers say in their report
of this new project, on page 3:
The district officer reports that the
partiallv constructed breakwater has
ereatlv facilitated the handling of
freight, and greater protection Is ex
pected through the completion or trie
dredging provided for by the existing
project. He finds that the harbor is
subject to considerable shoaling, the
cause of which he traces to sediment
from the Iao River carried into the
harbor by the littoral currents. He
estimates the amount, of shoaling at
33.000 cubic vards per annum, that it
will cost at least $15,000 to remove it,
and that It seems possible that if th
harbor is enlarged the cost of main
tainance will be increased. He states
that a breakwater as proposed
(That is the one carried in the Item
in the bill )
would prevent the littoral current en
tering the harbor, and would therefore
check the deposit of material therein.
He estimates the cost of the break
water, including engineering, inspect
ion, and contingencies at $250,000.
So we will save by the construction
of this breakwater nearly $15,000 a
year in the matter of maintainance,
The district officer says that he thinks
that saving will justify this cost.
From the facts presented it appears
that the construction of the west
breakwater would be of some mater
ial benefit in reducing wave action in
thp harbor and would be of material
ndvantace in reducing the cost of
maintainance.
The board therefore concur in the
recommendation of the district officer.
I will sav that I was talking with
one of the commanders or captains of
r vessel a short time ago that goes in
and out of this harbor. He stated
that with the breakwater constructed
out as it is, the storms that sometimes
come there very greatly endanger ves
sels in the harbor, because there is a
sween in one direction through whien
the winds can come right into the
harbor. I do not know exactly the
direction, whether it is east or west
but he said his vessel war almost drlv.
en from its moorings and he had to
get out Into the ocean in order to save
the shin. The construction or tni
breakwater will very largely do away
with that difficulty and that danger.
Furthermore, it seems that with
these storms coming, with this one
breakwater running out into the oc
ean, which forms a sort of an eddy or
current around the shore, it makes it
also very dangerous for the vessels
that are at anchor there . With this
breakwater constructed as proposed,
that danger will be very largely done
away with. For these reasons I think
that this provision ought to be made,
I have here also a letter addressed
(couliiiiK d on page
Big List Sure For
4th Of July Races
New Entries Possible For Trotting
Event Entries Close On 24th
Cowboy Stunts To Be Feature
Time for receiving entries for the
big Fourth of July races at Kahului
has been extended to June 24 -a week
from next Saturday. This same date
has also been fixed as the lime for
closing entries for the cowboy sports.
It was first intended to close the race
entries on the 11th, but the prospect
of getting a number of additional ent
ries from the coast caused the time
to be extended.
McT'heo and Locey, who returned
from Honolulu on Wednesday night,
are enthusiastic over the outlook for
Maui's big day. Practically all the
horses that made any showing at all
at the Kapioianl track last Saturday
and Monday, will bo entered, they say,
and besides two and possibly three
speedy steppers are expected to arrive
from the coast between now and the
Fourth to enter the trotting-paclng
event against Denervo. A number of
Honolulu horsemen, it is claimed,
have this project on foot.
It Is not known whether or not Tom
Hollinger will again be on hand with
Welcome Roy. Th e defeat in Hono
lulu last Monday by McPhee's pacer
was so decisive, that it is said Hollin
ger admits that Denervo is the best
horse.
25th INFANTRY BAND COMING.
Arrangements have been made for
the 25th Infantry (colored) hand to be
present, and besides playing for the
races the band is to play for a big
dance to be given at the Armory or
the Kahului I,yceum.
Angus McPhee is naturally well
satisfied with the showing his horses
made in the Honolulu races, and par
ticularly over Denervo. Dan Carey,
who piioted the big bay, is also feel
ing some swelled up over results, tho'
as some of the track men declared, he
did it so easily that he whittled a
stick during the final heat.
COWBOY SPORTS TO BE GREAT
Last New Year's inauguration of cow
boy sports as a feature in connection
with a race meet on the Kahului
track, has stimulated a lot of lively
anticipation among the riders of the
island, and there will be something
fancy doing on the Fourth, judging
from all the practising that is said to
be going on.on the quiet, back on tlu
ranches. There will also be some very
classy bucking horses this time, as
well as some wild cattle of a type that
will test the skill of the most expert
puncher.
MANY HORSES IN TRAINING.
Most of the horses which raced in
Honolulu are already In training for
the Kahului meet. Col. Harry Raid-
win's string will arrive by tomorrow's
Claudine, and will at once begin
shaping up for the contest. Dener
vo and the rest of McPhee and I,ocey's
horses came back last Tuesday.
-tt
WOULD-BE DESERTERS DROWN
A life preserver from the Japanese
steamer Aikoku Maru, to which were
tied two pairs of boots, has been found
on Kahoolawe by Aina Kailipalouli, an
employe of Eben Low, and sent to Ho
nolulu. The significance is that the
Aikoku Maru, here from San Francis
co for Japan, May 7, reported that
while she was lying In the lee of Maul
for shelter from the high seas, three
men jumped overboard, two with pre
servers and one with a board in Maa-
laea bay. Finding the preserver,
marked with the ship's name, bears
out the story told here. The men al
most certainly were drowned as the
ship was more than a mile off Maui,
when they disappeared at night.
Submarines To Come
Back To Lahaina
Expected To Arrive Today To Com
plete Practice Two Torpedoes
Lost Men May Have Shore Leave
The four K type submarines which
returned to Pearl Harbor last week
after a week of battle practice off
Lahaina, are expected to return today
to complete the exercises, which It
seems were suspended on account of
Kamhameha Day. The boats, together
with the tender Alert, will probably be
in Lahaina waters for a week or more,
during which time tho crews of the
vessels may be given an opportunity
to see the sights of this island.
While practising with torpedoes
last week, two of these missiles were
lost ani efforts to locate them prov
ed unavailing. For some reason they
sank in about 180 feet of water. The
torpedoes are valued at about $5000
each, and it is likely that further eff
orts will be made to recover them.
The I'aia T.and paid a visit to the
Kula Sanitarium last Sunday and
serenaded Dr. Durney and the inmates
of the institution. Their music was
greatly appreciated.
Pineapple Demand
Now Exceeds Supply
Outlook For Future Good For Those
Who Can Produce The Fruit
Much Land Abandoned
Latest reports are that this year's
pineapple pack will be even lighter
than was at first estimated, and that
next season will see a still greater
falling off. This will bp particularly
true on Oahu where virgin land is
practically exhausted.
The present season's pack is practi
cally all disposed of, and the demand
is increasing. The outlook for next
year's prices is for material improve
ment, over present, figures. Haiku
growers will receive $16.10 per ton
for No. 1 fruit this year against $11.25
paid last season. It is predicted by
at least one packer that the price
will be around $20 next year.
Within another week or two all the
Maui canneries will be in full blast
on the summer pack. In the Haiku
district the nualityof the fruit will be
somewhat better than for the past
two seasons, due to new planting
coming in bearing, but there is still
a large amount of small fruit from
rattoons of previous years to be
marketed.
Honolua Ranch Busy
Around on the Lahaina side, the
Honolua Ranch cannery began work
last week on a splendid crop which
will amount to about 15,000 cases.
This against 9.000 last year. This
concern grows practically all its
own fruit. Next year a pack of 25,000
ca
ses is predicted. Th mmlitv nt
his pack is probably not excelled in
he territory due largely to exceptlon
lly favorable conditions under which
he fruit is grown.
Can Factory Pau
J he American Can Company's plant
Haiku, having made up all the con
inrrs that will be used on tho toinnii
for the season, has closed down nn-
next fall.
May Market Own Pack
Some Of the homes! f!lriprs In tho
Haiku district are looking inin fVo
possibilities of having their fruit
packed by the Maui Pineapple Com-
iwiy ana uien unuertaking the dispos
tion of it themselves. It is under
tood that a number of jobbing firms
lave signified their willingness to
landle such a naclc nrnvlrlorl v,
growers decide that this would be to
ineir advantage.
New And Old Land
Several hundred n
will probably be planted to pineapples
this year, but this will searcelv off
set the old land wlilrti win l.
doner! because it will no longer pro
duce marketable fruit. A rnnd ma n v
growers, who a few years ago planted
mi ii pi r iana to pineapples, now find
ineiuseives out or the pineapple game.
The experiment station nnni t,
lieve that by a proper system of rota
tion ot crops, pineapples mav be suc
cessfully replanted, bill- Itiov hova
not had time up to the present to fully
upuiunsiraie tneir belief.
GreatRacelsWonBy
McPhee's Denervo
Maui Horses Make Fine Showing
Col. Baldwin and Dr. Fitzgerald
Also Had First Money Horses
Maui was certainlv I
ing the Kamehameha Day celebration
iu Honolulu. Not only did she play
a stellar role in a polo game with a
crack regular army four, but in the
racing, Maui-owned horses pulled
down no less than 5 firsts nnd a opp.
onds, and held 3rd place in five events.
iNor was this all, for a Maui man
the handsome Dr. Fitzgerald, of Sprcc
klesville rode to victorv in ihp two
gentlemen's races, and in one of them
upon a iuaui--owneu horse.
Col. II. A. lialdwin's Franpps
B.
and Dutch Parrot; Angus McPhee
e's
Denervo and Hellelbertr:and I)r Vit
z-
gerald's Copra each had first in the
ir
credit. Jr. f llzgera Id's Dick Tilhnrn.
i.. von lempsky's Wallaby, McPhee
Heidelberg and Bubbling Water eac
s
h
won a second place: while W.
A.
Clark's Edwin Cnnrn Wuiint.i- it.,
id
elberg and Dick Tilburn, finished 3rd
in otner races.
Denervo'8 victory over his old riv
al, Tom Hollinger's Welcome liov. tn
three straight mile heats, was one of
the big features of the meet. Not
only did he win with ease, but in the
second heat his time broke the local
track record. There is no question
that the big bay was in superb form.
His time was 2:13 4-5; 2:12 2-5;
2:14.
There were over 50 horses on the
track during the two days of racing.
Thecrowds were the largest that
probably ever attended a race meet in
Honolulu.
The marriage of Miss Alice Walker
to Mr. Robert Huuhcs will take placo
next Monday evening.
Maui Wins Hot Game
From Army Poloists
Local Four Took Lead By Narrow Mar
gin Collins Makes Winning Coal
New Army Team Is Strong
With a score of G4 to 5', ,. the Maul
'"Third Infantry" polo team on last
Saturday afternoon, defeated the All
Army aggregation In one of the most
exciting polo battles ever playd in the
Islands. The game was played on
the new Kapioianl field. Honolulu, and
was witnessed by a tremendous crowd.
II. was a much talked-of feature of
the Kamehameha Dav relehrntinn
The Advertiser sports writer tells of
me game in the following words:
The new field was broken in right
royally, for the game, which resulted
In the eleventh hour defeat of the All
Army team bv tho Third Tnfnnlrir nlov.
ers. by the score of S to 5Ms, was one
of the finest exhibitions of fiuhtlnir
Jiolo that has ever been staeed In
Hawaii.
At half time the score was 214
points all: in the fifth chukkur the
Army netted two points against the
Third's one point, making the score.
Army, 4.V.. Third Infantrv nu. t
the sixth chukkur the Third scored
two points and the Army put the ball
between the posts oncp Heine- th
scorp again, 516 all. There was no
scoring in the penultimate period, and
the eighth nnd lust- rhnVk
two tpams fighting desperately for
victory, it came when Collins got
possession, and with n rinar ai .
head of him and a pony which had
me loot of Its pursuers, made an un
erring stroke which
between the fateful poles.
the Army team played a game thut
was a revelation to those who have
seen army teams perform here in the
past. It. is a mighty fast, hard-riding
aggregation, composed of men who
have played high-class polo on the
mainland. The Army team is bound
to be dangerous in the coming Inter
Island tournament
The Third Infantry bunch did not
play their usual game. Thev lav he
hind longer than they should, anil cut
matters finer than was prudent
Frank Raldwin did not wake up until
the last two chukkurs, and Sam Bald
win was below hia imiml farm tt..i
, ........ tiniuiu
Rice played a sound, consistent game
and Collins at No. 1, was a host in
himself.
No. 1, played a bustling game, and
Hoyle s work thronchnnt th onr.,
was of a brilliant order.
The teams nlaved thp lnut r.v,.,L i,....
or two as if an International trophy
depended on the result and galloped
themselves almost ot a standstill.
mere were only two penalties im
pospd during the came, and hmh i-..r
for fouls committed in the second
period. Collins and I fnvlo hlnr tli a
offenders.
Third Infantry did not exhibit the
rythmical team-work that was expect
ed of them, and this 1h nmhatitv H.,r
to lack of opportunities to practise to-
gemer.
A neck-break imr ti;icp wn op in ti
last two periods, with the Army outfit
contenting every inch of the way up
to the final bell.
It was a match which teemed with
thrills, and was a fitting opening for
the new field.
Editor Stevenson
For Preparedness
Burglar Escaped Because Val Had
Failed To Practice His Own Pre
aching Hilo, June 3, Clad In pajamas and
armed with a revolver, V. L. Steven
Bon, editor of the Hawaii Herald, gave
chase to a nocturnal visitor whom he
detected prowling mysteriously about
the Stevenson domicile in the Puueo
district Monday night. The editor
failed to catch his man but fired a
shot in the general direction of the
fleeing individual. The report of the
gun and the shouts of the editor,
calling upon tho prowler to stand
and deliver" aroused the neighborhood
and a man hunt was organized, but the
man could not be found.
Writing of the visitation at his home
Editor Stevenson in the last Issue of
The Herald expresses the opinion that
the fellow must have been seeking his
ancient typewriter. He quotes differ
ent opinions from tho neighbors who
were awakened by his shooting:
"One man thought war had been de
clared between the two F.nglish week
ly newspapers of Hilo and that the
editors were gunning for each other.
"Another bright youth guessed that
the editor's typewriter had exploded
in an effort to write a pro-Teutonic ed
itorial." Stevenson concludes with the warn
ing that "in future guns will be kept
handy instead of in bureau drawers
and nocturnal visitors who will not
stand will take chances of being made
to lay down for a while.
WILSON AND MARSHALL
NAMED BYDEMGCRATS
St. Louis Convention Is Tame Affair Bryan
Boosts Russians Making Progress Rail
roads Refuse Demands Of Workers
iioxoi.ui.it, t u tic 1') Rapid Transit Company will extend
King Street line to Fort Shafter. Work to begin without further de
lay. 30 .shares of this street-ear eororation sell a! S10 each.
Volcano museum to cost $18,000. Research association decides up
on re-in forced concrete for structure at Kilauea. Fine institution will
house valuable specimens nnd data pertaining to volcano.
Depreciation fund is insisted upon by utilities board, (las company
notified that it must keep cash on hand for emergencies. Bookkeeping
methods disapproved of at hearing. Inspection of plant may be delay
ed for some time.
Charges against Chaplain I.enihan said to be drunkenness and .
ST. J.OUIS, June 16 Wood row Wilson and Thomas R. Marshall
are again to be standard-bearers of democratic party. One vote is
cast in opposition to President of convention. Delegates and spectators
make demonstration when cut and dried program is worked by leaders.
Bryan makes plea for victory. He received an ovation when called to
platform, and urged democrats to forget grievances for duty.
WASHINGTON, June 16 When Tumulty carried Wilson the
news of his nomination at 1 o'clock this morning, the President said
"I'm very grateful".
LONDON, June 16 P.erlin says Russian drive is blocked by Ger
man allies. Petrograd semi-official dispatches declare Czcrnowitz has
been evacuated by Austrians after heavy fighting. Tale of Russian
booty continues growing fast. Slavs now declare prisoners taken since
big drive began, to be more than 150,000 enlisted men.
SAN FRANCISCO, J une 16 Only 6 persons may have been
drowned on steamer Hear. Battleship Oregon's crew does yeoman ser
vice in rescuing imperiled.
TOKIO, Jun 16 Li Yuan Hing, the new president of China has
been warned by Japan that he will
i uan jnm iai.
SAN FRANCISCO, June 16 Former Pacific Mail steamer Siber
ia leaves New York today flying flag of T. K. K. line. Will call atHono
lulu on way to Orient.
DETROIT, June 16 Dr. Charles Mayo, one of the famous Mayo
brothers was elected head of the American Medical Association yesterday-
LULL
NEW YORKJune 16 Big railways have notified 4 brotherhoods
of employes that demands for 8 hour day and for time and a half for
overtime, will not be granted.
LAREDO, June 15 Troop of bandits crossed the Rio Grande
and engaged iu a half-hour battle with American troops encamped and
patroling San Ignatio. Were finally driven off, when ' pursued by a
mounted detachment. Fight took place 40 miles south-east of here.
'Ihree troopers of 14th Cavali v killed and 6 wounded. At San Ignatio
140 cavalry men are stationed. Raiding force is estimated at 100. Maj.
Alonzo Gray and two troops of cavalry took up pursuit and Mexicans
immediately fled from scene. It is believed Americans captured 42
horses.
HEADQUARTERS, MEXICO, June 15 Pedro I .,ujan, one of
Villa's leaders at Columbus, was captured by Capt. Turner, 13th Cavalry
near llaciendo Tepehoknes.
WASHINGTON, June 15 United States is about ready to send
note to Carranza refusing to withdraw troops from Mexico. Unless
there are special developments, note will not be sent until next week.
ST. LOUIS, June 15 Convention will be over by tonight. It is
proceeding almost without features . Woman's suffrage plank likely.
Party planning to meet republican platform. Hawaii delegation is
recognized.
P.ERLIN June 15 Russians repulsed by Auslro-German position near
Przewloka in dense formation made bard attacks today. Austrian are
making stand against Russians.
HONOLULU June 15 Hawaii's forage problem is put up to
Hitchcock, Uncle Sam's foremost authority who is here on mission of
much importance. Studies may be boon to island dairying too. Exjiert
arrived today on transjiort and may remain until October.
Court's friends say Williamson now is trustee of Bishop estate.
Petition for confirmation of his appointment taken under advisement
by Ash ford.
J.W.Thompson qualifies as Hawaii judge.' Instructions by cable
today from Attorney General Gregory.
HONOLULU, June 15 Chaplain Lenihan, 4th Cavalry, is fac
ing serious charges. Will stand trial. His resignation is refused
and application for leave denied. Trouble has no relation with wed
ding of Soldier Jones a few weeks ago. Accusation believed to refer
to something in his border service. Brother officers silent on matter.
Announced yesterday that Bank of California has been made
San Francisco representative of the Olaa Sugar Company.
Secretary of War Baker favors Oahu military road around is
land, according to letter received here yesterday.
C. R. Forbes tells Ad Club and Chamber of Commerce that the
Kuhio wharf structure is perfectly sale. Calls treatment accorded by
steamers an outrage.
Question of W in. Williamson's confirmation as trustee of Bishop
Estate, is to be taken. up today by Judge Ashford.
SI. LOL1S, June lo President Wilson has democratic situat
ion in the hollow of his hand. Is only thing iu sight at the convention.
Great national classic of bourbons promises a platform specially
built to meet policies that matured in White House. Peace and plen
ty are leading pledges given. Defense of the country through Amer
icanism, an S hour day tor labor, and protection of children, are among
the planks. Mexican question is ignored.
WASHINGTON, June 15 Hyphenates must cease activities.
Political blackmailers among foreign born Americans warned by W il
son their activities must cease.
COPEXHAGEX, June 15 Russians scatter fleet of German mer
chant vessels. Teutonic auxiliary cruiser and number of destroyers
sunk in Baltic.
(Continued on Page Two.)
be ousted if he follows footsteps of
