Plan Your Vacation Want Vaation Money?
VA the aid of The Herald's See ne Sudy's Herad a
Anual Resort Section. issued as lear about the ive p 3 t
par of mext Sumday's Herald. $5 ,,, pI, soi,wes.
NO. 3528. wAThER-SgOWER. WASHINGTON. D. C., FRIDAY. JUNE 16. 1916. ONE CI!lT.
ANDIT HUNTERS
CONTINUE CHASE
ONUs S. GROUND
Raiders Who Killed Three
American Soldiers Not
Across Border.
HIDING IN MESQUITE
Maj. Gray Empowered to Fol
low Mexicans Across Line
if They Flee.
By JOSEPH TIMMONS.
(By the Internatiemal News Servis.)
San Antonio. June IL-Up to a late hour
tonight Gen. Funston had received no ad
vices that Maj. Alonso Gray and his
troops of the Fourteenyth had cross
* ed the Rio Grande in pursuit of the ban
dits that attacked the cavalry camp at
San Ignacio. Tex.. at o'clock this morn
ing. Maj. Gray has authority to cross,
and doubtless will if he learns the bandits
have reassembled on the Mexican side.
Three American troopers were killed
and six wounded In the fight with the
bandits. Two of the wounded are expect
ed to die.
Eiaht Mexicans Killed.
Eight Mexicans were killed and a con.
siderable number wounded. Evidently the
outlaws had expected to surprise and
stampede a half troop. and when they
discovered two and a half troops fighting
coolly from trenches they fled. Breaking
into groups of twos and threes. some of
them hid in mesquite thickets in arroyos
Rio Grande. but it is believed most of
them hid in mesquite thickets of Arrayos
on the American side.
In the meantime, the cavalry detach
ments of the border guard are compelled
to ignore other forces of the Luis de la i
Rosa command concentrated across the
river, waiting for similar opportunity to I
make surprise night attacks. or ranch ,
raids. De la Rosa boasts he would make j
four raids. He hat made two; another I
is expected in the vicinity of Zapata. I
twenty-five miles down the river from
Ban Ignacio. and from Higalgea, sixty
miles up the river from Laredo.
Armsy Kept in Cheek.
If the army had Its way it would take
the initiate and strike these bandits
camps at night without waiting for them
to take the aggressive, but the adminis
tratlon will not permit this.
Privates Charles F. Flowers and Ed
ward Katonah. of Troop M. were killed
instantly: Private James Minaden. of the
saime troop. died at,8 o'clock.
The wounded are: Corp. William Ober
lies. Troop M. and Private James E.
Rocuh. Troop I. seriously; Privates Tony
Horlina. Henry Matasoff and Elmer W.
Minnette, of Troop M. and' Private
Thomas T. Ewing. of Troop L
Colonel Remains
In New York City
Uncertain Whether Illness or
Politics Keeps Leader
from Home.
4:sa News Service.)
10y ' an News Servie.)
New York. June 15.-Colonel Roose
velt Is staying in town over another
day. He will not go back to Oyster
Bay tomorrow afternoon, as he had 3
intended, but will remain in the city
until Saturday. Whether his change
In plans is due to the political con
ferences he is having. or to his illness,
he would not say.
The Colonel's visit to his physician
was sandwiched in between his politi
cal calls. He walked from the Hotel
Langdon. where he and Mrs. Roosevelt
are staying, to the office of Dr. Ar- 1
thur B. Duel in the afternoon. and I
underwent a thorough examination.
The X-ray plates which had been I
taken the day before were studied. I
VACATIOP
For Herah
FOR SOLVINI
Mr. JAMES R. COLBURN, C
Puzzle Contest for HERALD reader:
HERALD Puzzle Contest will not b~
your~ hardest competiton is elimina
one of the features of *
NEXT SUI
SUMMER RES
THE WASHJINC
Five Prises from 53
Sole Anti-Wls Man
Represents Germans
olay the Sun Ww. servse.)
Convention Hall, St. Louis,
Mo., June :5.-Robert Em
met Burke, who voiced the
single opposition vote recorded
against the renomination of
President Wilson tonight, is a
delegate-at-large from Chi
cago.
Burke. who was sent to
the convention by a constitu
ency made up largely of citi
zens of German birth or an
cestry, was the only delegate
at-large from Ililnois elected
on a "no preference" ticket.
the others being all straight
out Wilson men.
If efforts were made to dis
suade Burke from ruining the
unanimity of the Presidential
nomination they were fruit
less. Tonight he kept his
word to his German constitu
ents and yelled "no" lustily.
WILSON IDEAS
IN PLATFORM
)emocrats Pledge Party to
Carry Out President's
Professed Policies.
)ECLARES IN FAVOR OF
KEEPING TROOPS IN MEXICO
By HUGH S. MILLER.
(Interaatiemal News service.)
St. Louis. June 15-The Democratic
riatform was completed at 7:46 tonight
>y the subcommittee of nine members
of the committee on resolutions.
The subcommittee then took a recess
mtil 10 o'clock when it submitted the
iraft of the platform to the full com
nittee for its approval.
The subcommittee was in session prac
ically all day. The biggest fight was
>ver the suffrage plank. - As finally
dopted. it follows the lines of the suf
rage plank in the Republican platform
Adopted at Chicago last week.
To Keep Troope in Mexico.
The platform declares in favor or
eeptig the troops in Meaico loua
notigh to insure against further upria
rigs which might endanger American tar
itory. The proposal to incorporate a
olank declartag against a member of the
upreme Court leaving the bench to
ngage in a political contest was not
noorporated Into the platform. Nothing
was said on the subject.
The Democrats declare in favor of the
irinciple of woman suffrage and recom
nend it to the States for action.
The one-term plank which was in the
olatform adopted at Baltimore four
'ears ago was dropped.
The President's suggestion for a plank
n Americanism was incorporated. The
Leclaration is strong in its insistence on
rhole-hearted support of the government
y all citizens. It is understood that all
earties are called upon to spurn political
upport from any organization of foreign
orn citizens which endeavors to influence
his government's policy of international
ffairs. Confidence is expressed in the
rreat body of citizens and "America
rirst" is emphasised as the creed of
11.
The platform points cut that the ad
inistration has avoided war, and at the
ame time has preserved American rights
.nd has secured certain guarantees of
reedom of intercourse with other nations.
Foreign Policy Indorsed.
The policy of the administration with
espect to weaker nations. is withheld.
t is pointed out that the polley of this
overnment is, and should be. to refrain
rom interference in the affairs of smaller
ations except in extreme cases afd at
he same time to assist them to become
oroeperous.
The platform Indorses the creation of a
cientific tariff commission. It declared
hat the Underwood tariff law was drawn
n the interests of the people. whereas
he Republican tariffs were enacted in
he interests of special privileges.
The principle of the government ship
urchase bill as a means of building up
he merchant marine is indorsed.
I MONEY
I Readers
G A PU22LE
irculation Manager, has another
i. Winners of Mr. Colburn's last
e permitted to participate. Thus
ted This Puzzle Contest will be
9DAY'S
)RT NUMBER~
TON HERALD
.00 to S4OAO.Fah
AUSTRIANS QUIT
I CZRNOWITZ AS
CZAR ADVANCES
Capital of Bukowina Evacu
ated Because of Strong
Russian Offensive.
LEMBERG IS IN DANGER
Wedge Sixty Miles Wide
Driven Through Austrian
Lines Toward Sokal.
(Iaternatieal News ServIed)
London (Friday), June if.-The Aus
trians have evacuated Cxernowitz. capital
of Bukowina, according to dispatches to
the semi-official Petrograd News Agency
from Bukowina by way of Bucharest. The
fate of the right wing of the Austrian
army which was defending this city is
not yet known. Yesterday's dispatches,
however, said that It was not in immedi
ate danger.
The news followed the announcement
that the Grand Duke Leopold had re
pulsed the Russians north of Czernowits
and that between Rovno and the Kovel
Kolki Railway north of Lutsk, the Rus
sians have been halted in their attempts
to cross the river.
Once more the outstanding feature,.
apart from the fall of Czernowitz. are
steadily mounting number of Austrian
prisoners and the Austrian abandonment
of such enormous quantities of military
spoils that Russia is absolutely unable to
catalog them.
130,000 Made Prisoners.
The list of prisoners, according to Pet
rograd's report, reached today a total of
'.471 officers and 1o5.00 men.
Southward the Russians have driven
their wedge thirty miles through the Aus
trian lines toward Sokal. due north of
Lemberg. The rent here is reported to
have been !ncreased to the breadth of
sixty miles.
The Austrian armies have lost their
power of co-ordinate action. .Two deep
thrusts into the Austrian lire are ad
vancing relentlessly and threaten a blow
at Austria from which she may not re
coves.
The Austrians have boasted that the
Russians would never again take Lm
burg. If the double advance continues
In the direction of the present thrust.
Lemburg eventually will be outflanked.
I on the north and south, and the Aus
trians will be compelled to abandon it.
400,000 MAY
GO ON STRIKE
Railroad Managers Fail to
Agree with Representa
tives of Unions.
TWO-THIRDS' VOTE WOULD
TIE UP ALL TRAFFIC
4BY San News Service.)
New York. June 15.-The conference be
tween the general managers of tfie :all
ways and representatives of the four big
brotherhood, of railway employes came
to an end this afternoon when the last
peace overture of the railway managers t
'was turned down by the employes.
Within an hour after adjournment
preparations had already been begun to
submit a strike vote not only to the 400,000
union men on the roads of the country,
but to every other employe, nonunion or I
union. Every one of them will be asked
to vote speclically on the question: Are
you willing to leave the service of the i
railroad by which you are employed un
less a settlement may be reached by thea
committee and your representative?
A two-thirds vote will mean a strike t
throughout the country on every train
except mail and milk trains, in every 0
yard, terminal and roundhouse, unless at 1
a later session an agregment Is reached."
FRENCH ON OFFENSIVE
NEAR LE MORT HOMME
(By the Sum News Servie.)
Paris, June 15.-The French took the
offensive against the German positions
on Le Mort Romme today. An attack
was launched after the usual artillery
preparation, and a German trench on
the southern slopes of the height wa ap
tured. along with 130 prisoners.
The German infantry remained inactive
last night and today, but the German
artillery conducted very heavy bombard
ments on both banks of the Meuse,
against Chattancourt and Hill 304 on
the left bank, and the Thiaunmont Farm
and Fort de Souville an the right ba.nk.
New Cotton Bale Brings $120.
New .York. June 15.-The first bale
of cotton of this season's crop was
auctioned off today on the steps of
the New York * Cotton Exchange.
Twenty cents a pound, or $130 for the
bale, was paid by Gayle 'Toung, Who
made the purchase for U. K. Weld &
PAe to 3sases Peser. SLM Kasimo
bura. 300 BStea .0
Baltimore and Ohio :515 . Sun
40$, Jums24
tienI
WILSON NOI
BY VOTE C
MARSHAI
Smile of Four Years Ago
Again Worn by President
WOODROW WILSON.
WOOSE FLOCK WOULD ENJOIN
HUGHESWARD BOY HUSBAND
riends and Supporters of Mrs. Francis D. J. K. Tilton,
Roosevelt Continue to of Chevy Chase, Asks
Offer Support. Court Action.
ANDIDATE LEAVES FOR FEARS HE MAY COLLECT
WASHINGTON HOME TODAY $25,000 DUE HER ON NOTE
(.u. News Service.) Feafu that the young hus h
New York, June IL.-Friends and form- wo months azo ma spend a
r supporters of Colonel Roosevelt con- Part of her fortune. Mr. France-Duer
nued to flock to the headquarters ofIJones-Key Tilton. mother of twc grown
harles Evans Hughes today, and assure !daughters and heroine of two previous
de Republican Presidential nominee that marital ventures, is seeking injunctions
ley are now among his staunch backers. In New York courts restraining him from
Among the callers was William Potter. collecting some due her within the
f Philadelphia, former Ambassador to next few days. Previously. when her!
Laly. At the Republican convention In relations with J. H. Tilton her =-year.
hicago, Mr. Potter made one of the old husband, were happy she granted him
econding speeches when the Colonel was full power of attorney to act in her be
laced in nomination and expressed the half in financial affairs, her attorney
ope that a wedding between the Repub- says.
cans and the Progressives would take A note for ^0 is due her next Mon
lace soon. He believes this has been day, and It wa the fear that Tilton would
ecomplished. He assured Mr. Hughes collect this amount that caused Mrs.
xlay that he is squarely in line for Tilton to carry her case Into court. Mean;
te Republican choice. while Mrs. Tilton is in seclusion in he
Representative Walter M. Chandler, the home In Chevy Chase.
nly man ever elected to Congress' from Mrs. "Tilton and her young husband
uls city as a Progressive,.not only ex- were married last April. They met n
nded his compliments to Mr. Hughes, a motoring trip through the North
ut also offered his services in the cam- Otwes Husband f2
aign.
Mr. Hughes proved again today that he According to Attorney Henry L Quinn.
i an excellent handshaker. For a time who Is representing Mrs. Tilton, the bride
looked as if the stream of callers gave her husband =,00 ins s and
rould be unending. cash. What became of this 22.0 is
W. Murray Crane, head of the Repub-- occupying the attention of Mrs. Tilton's
can steering committee, who is now attorneys here and in New York. They
topping at the Biltmore. did not go to would like to ask Tilton for an account
ue Hughes' headquarters today. n.Btthyaytey avnoyt
Tomorrow evening the nominee willenal t idhm
Ike a train to Washington and will notToarotefrThWsintnH
sturn to the city until Monday morn. i r.Tlo ls ih ad
Four Lose Lives in River,. Tu a er edn l u fot
New Bern, N. C.. June 15.--Four Atre un,"h etwl aecr
ersons lost their lives and eight oth-ofisflae.
rs had narrow escapes Ehen the gas ______
oat Marion, bound from Bath, N. C.,
s Washington, N. C.. sank in the lv undi ie
'amlico River today. The bodies of rmnhm AlJue1.Fv
lures young women have been recov-mewreeiolybndbya -
red. oso inteCamn mienr
'Xore Mails Reported eised. udwtou nuy
Berlin (by wireless, June 15.2-The
verseas News Agency today reports yhe il.Wm ,
hat the Danish postmaster general at Whdor oJn 1.- cyle
'openhagen has information that thepaedorLetn oa ow
ritish authoritie's at Kirkwall con-twlemesnrhohrtisa
scated all the drat-class mall, as- weUl reletryn n deln n
a parcels frem the United States, 9 n ois~al aaeadkle
heDSII Zw.Vx~s1*VFe__ aru hat~ th -yun hubn )h
married.two.months-ago-may spend.
WINATED
)F 1092 TO 1;
L WINS OUT
DEMOCRATS RUSH
I AMES THROUGH
WITHOUT DELAY
President Declared Party's Choice
Shortly Before Midnight Hour.
Marshall Is Not Opposed.
PLATFORM REPORT IS HELD UP
Convention Puts On All Possible Steam But
Adjourns Until Today to Receive Verdict
From Resolutions Committee.
Tumulty Gives President Wilson
The News of His Nomination
President Wilson was in his bed chamber, reading and resting at
12:15 o'clock this morning when Secretary Tumulty entered with
news of the nomination.
"I am very grateful to my generous friends," were the words
with which the President greeted the news.
Shortly after Mr. Tumulty left the President the lights in Mr.
Wilson's room were extinguished.
CP sun iew semeso"
Convention Hall. St. LAuis, Mo., June 16,-& Prudd. Wfdrne
Wilson. of New Jersey.
For Vice President. Thomas R. Marshall, of Indimn.
This ticket was renominated by the Democratic national coamendan in
the Coliseum here a few minutes before midnoght tonight. The President
was not literally nominated by acclamation. One delegats desay
shouted "no" when Chairman James put the question. This was Dhgaam.
at-Large Emmet R. Burke, of Chicago.
1,092 FOR; ONE AGAINST
It took the bloom off the rose. Senator James was oblged to a.
nounce the vote 1,092 to 1. The renomination of Mr. Wilson was ao.
complished at 11:56 p. in., after a nominating speech by Judge John Wes.
cott, of New Jersey, and seconding speeches by Judson Harmon. of Ohio,
and Gov. Stuart, of Virginia.
Vice President Marshall was renominated by acclamation. Delegate
Burke having no objection. The formality was recorded at 11:57 p. m.
All oppositions crumbled away-the candidacies of Roger Sullivan, of Illi
nois; Gov. Major, of Missouri. and Gov. Moreland. of Nebraska. having
failed to enlist serious support.
KERN NOMINATES MARSHAT.T.
Mr. Marshall was placed in renomination by Senator Kern. of Indiana.
There were no seconding speeches.
The name of Ambassador James W. Gerard. who was indorsed by the
New York delegation for Vice President, was not presented to the con
vention.
The Friday superstition had been deferred to. although it was a ncar
thing.
At 12:07 a. m. a committee was appointed to wait on the platform
committee to see if it could get its report ready within reasonable tim.
and so wind up all remaining convention work. It had been in secLon t
the Planters Hotel since early Thursday morning.
QUARREL OVER PLATFODM.
A quarrel over some of the planks in the platform pre'erted a rcpst
of the platform committee.
It was reported that the President. to whom the planks had l-eci rcaj
one by one over the telephone. insisted- on a strong anti-hyphena-e plank
and that he wanted the convention kept in session until he could address i.
This was denied by Chairman James. It was clear, however, that a failure to
meet the President's platform requirement was holding up the platform. The
subcommittee which drafted the platform had done its work.
Wilson and Marshall will be sent into the campaign on a platform which
declares:
For Americanism and against hyphenated Americanism.
For the enfranchisement of women-b the States.
For a continuance of the present policy in Mexico.
For a continuance of the President's foreign policy.
. NO SECOND TERM PLANK.
For all the declarations of the Baltimore platform save the anti-second
term plank and the plank favoring the exemption of tolls for American ships
passing through the Panama Canal. These are definitely lodged in the pre
amble of the resolution.
A demonstration lasting forty-five minutes followed the placing of Wi-.
son's name before the convention by Judge Westcott, of New Jersey. The
same jurist made the nominating speech at Baltimore four years ago.
Many brief seconding speeches were made from States considered doubt
ful in the coming campaign. Judson Harmon, who opposed the President at
Baltimore as a rival candidate, made a seconding speech.
Senator Hughes reported the platform committee could not say when t
would be ready to submit the platform and the convention adjourned unti
II a. m. Friday. The adpption of the platform is the only business so.
aesiming. MWm deass will ant weit for this
