14,000 MORE PRISONERS ARE TAKEN BY RUSSIANS
WEATHER Showare probable tonluhl and Saturday.'
MWAL
JH EDITION
MM
OTYOJV
71
" Circulation BookBOpcn to All"
'Circulation Hooka Open to All
PRIOE ONE (jENT.
(oiijHkIiI. Illlll, by The t'rr.x I'ulilNhlnf
to. (The rw York World).
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, JUNE 16, 1916.
20 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
AX
CONVENTION CHEERS
RUSHES THE WILSON PLATFORM THROUGH
AUSTR1ANS QUIT GZERNOWiTZ
.
Over 16-1,000 Prisoners Now
Claimed for Czar's Forces
Since Offensive Began.
AUSTRIAN'S A KM: SPLIT.
Wedge 40 Miles beep and 75
Miles Long Driven L3e
tween Annies.
PBTKOtJKAD (vu Lonilun). Juno
16. Tho capture of an additional 10U
oflloeri and 1-1,000 men was in
nouncad to-duy by tho War Office.
The llusktan uccoscs In tho inten
sive along tho southern front aro con
tinuing, tho atalcm.ut declarer.
With tho prisoners already
claimed by the ltusslati. this
mako: a total of over ltil.wo
they have taken since the present
great oHpiisIvo Ucfj.m. I 1
Kus.xtan troops have entered Czor- '
nowitz, the ancient c.iftuil of Huko
wins, which has been cou-pletely
evacuated by the Auti iti. accord
ms to a telegram from Huchuvst
received here by tho (iovcrnmenf.s
semi-official Ftrograd News Agency.
In their flight, the Austrian aro
aald to have taken with them a Mrgo ;
number ot arrested civilians. It is
added that their railroad h'jek has
been sent to llskanl and lh.it they
have torn up the tracks ih far ..s
Volksgarten, n few miles iu the south
west, after despitebing m.fiv ir.ilns
lo.ided with wounded to D '.-n ivat. -a. '
Staff officers of the ltuxinn War
Office assert that tho Hus-iitrina .tw l
occupy the entire line uIoiik th" ltlver
Htrlpa, and that n wedge forty milex
dop and seventy-five, miles Ioiik has
ben drlvon Into the enemy's front In
Volhynla. This wedge separates the
AUHtrlnn and the Herman armies and
threatens Kovo, one of the most im
portant railway centre and bases
alone the entire bun.
The second wedge, south of the
Dnelster, Is thirty -llvo miles deep
and thirty-five milen wide, isolating
all of Uuko'vlno. Hoth wedges are
ateadtly increasing as the Russians
drlvo on.
Prisoners derlaro the, Germans am
taking up positions i-i tho rear of tho
Austrlans and shooting them whon
they threaten in retire In tho faco of
the Itut-Man advance.
XVSS1AXS REPULSED
at oxn roisr is
CLAIM .V B MIL l
nrRLIN, Juno ! I by wirelea to
Sajllle)). The official statement
from the Armj llei'Uiuarter. to-day
cays:
"The rtu.'Mans continued their ef
forts yesterdav agalnnt Oen. von
Bothtner'a front north of Przoulokn.
Durlnc the repulse of the enemy more
than 100 men were taken prisoner.! by
tho defenders."
1100,1100 Itullnn oltllnr Knnirn In
I'nlli-il (citri,
ROMH. June IS Th limiiber of
prsent Italian soHier.- Uo have either
ben to th" t'M'e, bt.iie or lue lno
relatives there l etiinteil ni Inch a
SO0.O0'r a propnrtinn I hut Is naid lo be
larger In llil nspeei than that of any
other army m llumpe.
(10 Men's & Young Men's Suits, 15.95
The "HUB" I'liitiiiiiK fornrr. Uio.nl
way at llmeliiy M (Opp, WooKvorth
Building). im . ti,-il.i & Saturday.
1,000 Mnn' & ciiiiik .Mi ll's Suits, I'lnrh
flacks, hhiu blacks, plaldn. hi owns,
uraya & fancv mixed Sites 3: to tt. Our
uneclal price for to.cliv nnd Saturrinv.
65.95. Open paturdxy nlcht till tfl HUB
Clothltri, Broadway, cor. lUrclay St.
xiri.
TWO GERMAN CRUISERS
WERE SUNK BY RUSSIANS
Berlin Now Admits thi Loss of the
Herrmann in Baltic
battle.
HKHUN (via wireless), June lt.--Tim
liurmun uuxlllary steai.ier Herr
mann was ultacked by four ltutlui
liHtrov in Jsorrkooplng Uay
Wednesday, It was announced to-day,
and uftor inalilnK heroic resistance,
caught lire. T.io crow sank the Herr
mann. Tho commander and a lurgc
part of tho crow aro leporud auto.
This 1 tho first olticlut announce
ment by Germany of tho recent Haltlc
battle. Tho cruler Kunlg von tfachenl
wait also lut Thn two warships wero'
cuihoIiik' fourteen merchant vessels,
only tw of hich havo been ac
counted fo..
DONALD M'LEAN HELD
FDR ROBBING CHURCH
'tt ork l.avtu; ArreiteJ in
MjIjiiJ far llejjeJ Thett
ot SS.uoo.
Uotiald Mcl:an, 'he New York
luwer whote arrest at Frederick,
Mil., was reported to-d.iy. Is under In
dlcunent for srnnd larceny. A truo
lull u.if hrouirnt on Juno 1 charKlnK
him with wrongfully wlthholdtnij
fS. 'im f'om the 'Ihiid Iteforuied Pro
bMeil.iri I'lwrch of No. i3 Wc.-
Trety-third Street. Mexander H.
McNeill of N . 3;' Monroe Street,
Htooklyn. 's the complatnuo; witness.
Mr. McLean wax for yenrs treas
urer of- .he church, and the trustees
brought suit ucatnst him some time
ano to recover $14,000 which they al
leged they had jtlvcn to him for in
vchtment. In tho Indictment It la
charged that th) larceny of the $S.00tl
tools place on March 20, 1013. Mrs.
McLean, who dlrd recently, was for
many years President General of the
L. A. II.
Members of Mr. McLean's family
.a that he has been tn poor health
fur yea'i and has pr,ld little attention
to his law practice. Slnco the death
of his wile a few weet.g ait0 H8 nas
been very uncoratminlcatlve. His
relative say that they had under
stood the action for an uvountlng;
hrousht by the church wax settled
Ioiik: aco, and wero surprised to hear
of the Indictment
"THE HAPPY MAN"
KILLED HIMSELF BY GAS
Suicide ot Ruben 1.. Slinlts, Worth
?25,00O, Belies Hi Rooming
House Nickn.ime.
Huben I: Phutts, who was known
o.x tho "bappy man" In tlin rnomjic
hou.to at No. HM West Klfty.jdxth
Street, wax found dMd In bed this
mornlns, a miicldx by km. He bail
madi elaborate arrunsetnents to In
fure, hlN death.
Slintls Irnl beep employed as head
iwiUkenpcr for tho J. ,. Curtis A.
i Son packins plain at the foot of West
; l-lfty.nlnth Street for ightceu yearx
Mr ''urtl.x paid thn man had ahsay.x
i borne n K"d ' ird, t tin t his cc-i--aint.x
were str.iifrlil, and that he
iua.x uortli abuiu Ut'M.
Shintf mnrrlud and 'i.nl a sum
mer home at lliijHon. N. .
j i ui: mini. u iuwi.i, in iti.At,
.U.'-.k I uuurr ulM Lui.-l.uj,
i., Ul l'it IIj. N. . Cllj.
Tli lil-. imixtH'iu, iau. .1c. iu ill it.,.
miiJ i iu,ti.i ivniftl in. I s.,uth tmritia
' vifamAhii, Ion lliscie- in) pirft cb, k n-tta
oiu air uii aim iiiirn-ri cuvcai
tMM at uu, Yutueai bmbsu
MARIAN I AMRFRT'v
COAT 8 G FACTOR
AT ORPET TRIAL
Stains on the Garment Put De
fense and Prosecution
to Hard Test.
cvanidlt, says expert.
Another Insists the Poison in
Liquid Form Killed Girl
Defense Combats Theory.
WAVK KG AN, til.. June 16.- -A fac
tor In tho defense of Will Orpet,
dr rifcd with tho murder of Marian
Lambert, nas brought out In court
to-day when cross-examination of Dr.
Halph W. Webster, toxicologic, was
resumed by Attorney Hulph V. Potter
of the defense.
Mr. Potter brought out that pearly
three months elapsed from tho llndliiK
of Marian's body. Feb. 10. to May S,
when thn dead Rlrl's coat nnd other
irarmen's were brought to lr. Web
ster to han stains on them analyzed.
The coat introduced in evidence es
terdnv showed thiee circular white
'pots, mnrki", the witness silid, of
cy,inld of potassium.
Orpet's lawyers had established by
experts tho fact tint cjnnldo crys
tals would dissolve when brouRht In
to contact with moisture In lhe nlr.
The ata'o'g theory was that the pol
.son that klllcl Marian was in liquid
form; that Orpet took It to the
woods In a bottle he Is known to havo
bouKht and that he carried tho bottle
away with him after the girl waa
dead.
After the State bad olfered proof
that stains on Marian's facn and
hands indicated It was liquid poison,
the defense proved by the same witnesses-
that tho poison inlffht have
been turned into liquid form by the
air while the bod lay In the woods.
This destrojod for the time tho effect
of the .State's contention, but the
prosecutor came back strong with
Pr. Webster.
HoldiiiK up the dark trreen coat
worn by Marian, Dr. Webster potntod
to three circular whlto spots on It.
These spots had not been visible when
the coat was removad from the body,
tho undertaker swore, but were
brought out by the heat In the room.
"In my opinion," testified Dr. Web
M"r, "this substance Is tho potassium
carbonate which remains from a aolu
tion of cyanide of potassium after
evaporation', Its circular form, If
nothing elso, Indicates that It droppod
In liquid form."
As It could have dropped only aa
Marian drained the poison, hla teatl
mony left a strong impression that
what ho took was In liquid form and
that somebody removed the container
befoie thn body was found.
Pr. William P. McNally, chemist
10 the mroner's ofllce at Chic.uro,
testified thai lyinldr of potassium In
liquid form would cause dea'h quicker
than the solid pois.,p He said he
had four ! three and iilnei- ine tvun-
(Oonunutd on Hocond Pace )
CANADIANS HARD HIT
IN YPRES BATTLE
Thiriy-jevcn Officers MentioneJ in
I'li-daj'' Casualty List, .V5
5iinv June
OTTAWA, Out., .Iiine III.--Thirty,
sexen I'anadlan officers .ire men
tioned in a rinually lis' receveU
here hy cable to.dnv. The total loxs
of ottlcerx Killed, wounded .md mlss
i'iu reported in h"avy ftglitinir be
Kiin PI June .' now totals .TJii. Lverj
hi'i i on of t'an ids han been toin 'icd
bv 1'ie losses In tlif Yyres N.ilient
tllitlng of which niniiiii. on fuices
I'.we borne the ;runt.
(For Racing Fleiulta See Pane Two,)
(Entriit en Pag 12.)
Manager of the Wilson Campaign;
1ffllO
imam's
VANCE C.McCOPMCK..
rntiw v muLxiuMrtoN.,
HUGHES LEAVES
T
Will Spend Week-End
Capital, Returning Here
Mondav.
in
AFIRCHIEFTAINS
PLEDGE SUPPOR
Caarle.x E. Hughes left for xAnsli- early enough to rend newspaper tic
Ington at 3.30 o'clock this afternoon to I counts of his nomination, of which ho
epend the- week-end with his family. 1 l)"" notified by Secretary
Intending to return to Now York early 1
Monday morning. His last day of
r.r:;-r:,,r. irrsHAOKLETON going back
tho tide of repentant ProKrcsfhrM and
the calls of numerous fn'rnorr.. .
Go. Whitmun of New York had tint
longest Interview with the Presiden
tial candidate and iosed with him for
a picture
"I found Mr. Hughes In admirable
condition and eaper to make an active
campnlgn," said tSox. Whitman. "I
ajn very confident of suc-ess In the
cnmpalfin and election of th tntlre
Reiiubllcan ticket."
"What part do you intend to take".'"
he waM asked.
"Oh. among other thlngx, I shall
have to look out for my own re
election," replied Mr. Whitman.
All that Mr. Hughes would say
about the conference was thai he was
glad to see the Governor and had h id
a pleasant Interview with him.
In the conference, for a Mine w-as
Myron T. Herrlck, former nowrnnr
of Ohio, former Ambisadnr to
France, and Itepubl'can candidate, for
Senntor from th'j Hucke State
Mr. Herrlck was asked concerning
tho attitude of tho peoplii of Onbi
toward the hyphenates.
"The German cillren of Oh.o and
its foreign-born cltiien.s general. y do
not differ In their loaty to the
United Stilton from any o'her ilasi,
of citliens," repllod Mr. Herrlck.
"W find in thn leading cities, even
In Cincinnati, that they aro practic
ally all loyal Amencanw. A lnr-
; proportion of our foreign-born cit.zer.a
are Hepubllcans and wilt supiort th
I liepublican tKket. They resent t--1
Ins put In a eUtM dlfferoiit from utuor
j cltiiens. They resent the attempt to
, faBten on them a lophcn nnd thes
regard it us (in unjiut and unfuir
j appellation
Tnero nrt, of course, certain :n- noun before a gnat mwd. Ilir rluht
divlduals among tnem who do not 1 leg was binken hii.I he token from
think (o, but tbee do not represent ' the lieiunllsheii mm hm :u i uiu-nii-the
mass of our foceign bom c't.e.if K' l!"'f.l"ol,''"!'l,il? ,
and should not be , !asd w.t.i them. '
The neil to bo rOLOlwd iu llemv
L. Htl'.nsuli of Ne York, who Ii i I
long talk with Mr. Hughes on j"..itki.
iCuaUOUtd viq UtUQAd Pc.J
"HYPHEN" PLANK
FRANK H.
HITCHCOCK
Photo '
Ml
WILSON FLOODED WITH
CONGRATULATIONS
, : :
Mai-shall at His Command in "Fight
Which You Arc to
Win."
WASHINGTON. June 1.-Presi-dent
Wilson earlj to-day received tho
following telegram from Vice-President
Marshall at Indianapolis;
"In the lb:ht which ou nin to
win. 1 am aluas jours to
command "
Mr. Marshall ineejRe was one of
hundreds received. Tho President wjs
In n hnppy frame of mind Hu rose
Tumulty Just an ho wa.x retiring ut
1 o cluck.
TO RESCUEHIS MEN
Re.uly to I eave the Falklaiuis for
fileph.int Island, Where Party
Is Marooned.
LONDON, Juno Ifi. A Heuter
despatch says that Lieut. Phackleton
Is about to leave the Palklanda to res
cue tho men of his party left on Kle
pliant Island.
Sir Krnrst Shnekleton, who started
on a Pouth Polar exiedltion on Jan.
10. I'JlS, met disaster and his fate was
not known until, on May 31, ho cabled
The World that ho had arrived at
Port Stanley with live men and that
twenty-two othern of hln party hnd
been left on Klephnnt Island.
Aliout two months prevloiiily,
another sfotlon of the Khackletnn
party, which had taken a different
route., heading for Roj-s Lea tf, mrct
tho explorer at the end of his Journey,
arrived a' New Zealand with stories
of h.irdxhtp and a report tb.rt ten mn
'"ho had been separated from the
p.irr hnd ben left thlnd.
Hlephant Island Is one of tv South
Shetland groui aiv) l about 70 milM
due xouth of Port H'anloy, l alklnnd
Islands. For the greater p.ut of the
veiir the Shetlandx are coere, with
snow and grow only moHnei ,md
scanty grasx. However, the abund
ance of we.ilt and sea afford n
good food and fuel supply fur the
twenty. two nun awaiting iclief.
AVIATOR HURT IN JAPAN.
tmerirnn ller Putin .Hill Peel In
I'llillilllnn I'MkIii.
SAl'POKD. HOKKAIIic. Iipxn, June
"5 Arthur Sinllh. in An . e ,m avimpr.
f,ll from a height n' f-et while giv
ing on lilhtnn lllglu heie Ihlv nfl-r.
r,,,,,, ii,. "tin ii 'I'liping'
the.ionp" In n the Hi'iuplnne rrmlud
in tin. Knnll.il Til,- hi Hlent I" lit Pet ml
in M0 In -II due l . 'lefixtH nii-tor.
MllHll relie'lHil 1 1 o'r( 1. ,). .tlr UluVlllk
i linlliHiit ercilt r, f lii,u) Hie lour
uiiiink; in a illniak v. ih ,i -ii-f.il it.
hlbllion jl'im the ToKm 1'aUt.c l
rtxgtd lor Umpeior VotaltUto.
ROOSEVELT I T
STAY IN SECLUSION
DOCTOR ORDERS
Concern Over Colonel's Latest
Turn Prompts Physician
to Send Him to Bed.
HIS VOICE IS AFFECTED.
Sees Few Visitors and Will Go
to Oyster Hay To
Morrow. I Col. Ilooxevcll's condition Ii anch
'to-day that he Ii.ih been compelled to
heed the ropo'ited warnings of Ills
physlclana and take to his lied. Ker
since tho Convention ho has refused
to obey thn orderx the medical men
havo Issued, and has Nought to con
vince himself of their nudlesnnrss.
Hut they wero evidently nblo lo seo
further Into thn future than the
Colonel permitted hlnihclf lo see. I!
had a severe attacti of coughing last
night and to-day wax nblo to apeak
only in a whisper.
The pain in Ins left side wus sn
acute this morning that word wax
sent to Ur, llrbert V. Uullc, Who
hastened to the Hotel l.iiifTflon, Flf.
tr-sixth Stieit and Fifth Avenue,
where Col. Iluoaevelt has been Htay
Ing for the last f,w day.x,
A quick examination of his patient
convinced Dr. Oulbi that a inoro thor
ough Investigation of the Colonel's
condition should be made without de
lay So Dr. Oulln took him ami Mrs.
Itoosevelt to his office ,it No. Ml West
J Knil Avenue, mid thein undo a
' sfiirchlng exatnlnatlon.
I The result of Ii nas to unb-r Col.
I Itoosevelt to bed at once, with a warn
ing that he must lake earn of h.mself
In every possible way, and abn-o all
that he must not receive visitors or
Hubject himself to thn strum of talk
ing. In spite of this warning Co Itoose
velt Insisted upon weeing Kvetett Col
by, leader of the Progressives of Now
Jersey, who bus alreni decl.ued him
self for Hughes. The confab lasted
only a hort time, however.
Ho also had a brief conference with
(leorge W. Perkins, the "Ludy lloun
tlful" of the Progresses, nnd Fred
erick W. Whltrldge, President of tha
Third Avenue Hallway Company, The
subject of these talks wax withheld by
his visitors.
Afterward Col Roosevelt went re
luctantly to his bed. where he hid
been told to remain the rest of the
day. T'i-nioriow he will return to
Oyxter Itiy nnd. under the Imperative
orders of his iih.vsblans. will keep in
prncttuil cliMoii for u we-k at least
When reporters went to thn liotn
before he left for I lie (iliyj-ielan office
his voice w.ii, sy weak that lie, could
scarcely whisper Mrs. Itooseveli,
wliu flood nar him. raised her hand
in warning and supplication that they
would not persist In their questioning
of him.
Col Koo.x'velt sud, however:
"The trouble Is really trivial, simply
x couplo of tendons Miappcd. I have
a he.ivj cold In the chest and when
ever I cough It distresses, uie. When
I got lid of the cold It wib all dlt-ap-pear
in a natural way.''
ti Arthur H I Mud, another r C-d
Iti,ev . it's piivsliianN said: "The
Colonel hax a ver lir.tatltig lough,
but 't is al'solutilj iir,tlnu;r herlous
p . s dUtressmy and painful; but
pirelv ,i local condition, pr irh),
lilt sui-in-taw. has strapped him u-(
, i , js to alixv ate the p.ilq .is much
'as eis ule Tli.s Ku-a! iniidll l.in i
improv'ng irj rap.diy and I lonl, (
'a qu iecocr in u cuupln jf days '
Hrt'i (ul Htl. 1 I'd. ini ,cn( L-rguiii
DISLOYAL PLOTS IN U. S.
DENOUNCED BY DEMOCRATS
IN tin PARTY U 01
"We Condemn," Says the Resolution,
"All Alliances and Combinations of
Individuals of Whatever Nation
ality or Descent for Purpose of
Weakening the Government."
TO KEEP ARMY IN MEXICO
TILL TROUBLE IS OVER
tiy Martin Green.
(Sptolal Staff Corraapondtnt of Tha Evanlng World.)
DKMOCUA TIC CONVENTION HALL. ST. LOUIS. June 16.
iThe Democratic National Convention to-day adopted the Americanism
platform which was forced throuirh the Committee on Hesolutions last
illicit hy President Wilson. It was
ch.iiu,v, even the dotting of an "i" or crossing of a "t." Delay in
reporting the platform was caused to-day by a fight over the Woman's
Suffrage plank.
It w.is 1 2.?n o'clock when Senator William J. Stone of Missouri,
Chairman of the Committee, appeared on the stage with the platform
upon which Woodrow Wilson will go before the people. Senator Stone
said he hadn't had a moment of sleep in more than thirty hours, and
would pass (he task of reading the voluminous document to somebody
else, lie introduced Senator Wabh of Montana, who begin to read the
platform through the most abundant mustache in the whole convention.
During (lie reading there were significant outbursts ot applause.
Lspcciallx iiiiific,iiit was the reception of the anti-hyphen plank and the
one upholding the course of Wilson on the Mexican question. ..
xuniHMt. issnt; is amekicamsm.
Sections which relate to hyphenates. Mexico and protection of our
citizens follow:
"The part that tho United SlMes will play In the new day of
international relationships which l.x now upon us will depend upou
our preparation and our character. Tho Democratic party rccog
nlie.x the assertion nnd triumphant domontttratlon of tho Indlvlal
hllll and coherent strength or tho nation; therefore, as the su
preme issue of this day. In which tha wuolo world faces the crista
of manifold change, H summons all men, of wimtover origin or
orcfd, who would count themselves Americans, to Join tn making
cltnr to ull thi. world thn unity anil consequent power of America.
"This la an Ihmiu ot patriotism. To taint ll with partlsanahlp
would tie to delllo It. In this day of tost, America must show
Itself not a nation of partisans but a nation of patrloia. There
Is gathered hero In America tho best of the blood, tho Industry
and the genius of tho wholo world, tho elements of u great race
and a magnificent society to b melted Into a mighty and Bplendid
nation
"Mliopwr, artiiMtj d liy tho purpose to promote the lutarvst ot
n foreign poner, In disregard of our own country's Hel
tons or to Injure this tion-rnntent In Its foreign relations, or
cripple or destroy Its hiilustrlex at liomej and nhoerer, by nrons.
Inif prejudices of n rnrlal. religions or other nature, creates dlv
rord anil strife anione our people so nx to obstruct the whole,
some proress of unification, Is fnlthless to tho trnst which the
privileges of citizenship repose In him and disloyal to his country,
HYPHEMSM IS DESOUXCE1).
"We, therefore, condemn as subversive of thlB natton's unity
and tntrgrlty, and as destructive of Us welfare, the activities und
designs o fovcry group or organisation, political or otherwise, thnt
tins for Its object tho advancement of tho interest of a foreign
power, whether such object Is promoted by Intimidating the Gov
ernment, a political party, or representatives of Iho peoplo; or
which Is calculated anil tends to dlvldo our pooplo into antag
onistic roup-- and thus lo destroy that complete a,?ri cent nnd
folldarlt.v "f the people, and that unity of sentiment and national
purpose, mi essential to the perpetuity of the nation and Its free
Institutions
"He cniiilenin all allliinrcs nnd combinations of IndltlduaU
in this roiintr), of whatever nationality or descent, who agree and
conspire together for the purpose of embarrassing or Heakcutag
our (iiiicriiiiicnl or of Improper); influencing or coercing our pub.
lie re pre !cntallTcs In dealing or negotiating with any foreign power,
lie charge that such conspiracies aiming a limited number exist
and luive been Instigated for the purpose of advancing the Inter
extx of foreign countries to the prejudice and detriment of our
owu cuuiilry. t condemn auyinUUcBi party which la tkw e J
5
reported that he refused to permit any
