ORECAST.
aibly to-morrow I
IT SHINES FOP. ALL
uthcast winds.
Highest
sttrday, 57; lowest, 59.
Detailed w.
nc report., oa pa?e It.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 290.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, JUNE 10, 1916. Copyright, 1D1G, by tho Sun Printing and Publishing AMoeiaflon.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
Showels tfjNfcv aniflM
tesJIHLHc
POWERS URGE
I S. TO KEEP
OUT OF MEXICO
r i 11 ii iii . .1 .
Offer J-iicitdly Aid to Pre
vent Armed Intervention.
COXFEKEXCH HELD AT
STATE DEL'AKTMEXT
Diplomats of Britain, Hon
duras and Costa Rica
Take Part.
LID 3IAY BLOW OFF :' ".
AXY TIME. IS FEAR
;bliinrton Hears t'ar
ninza Is Heady to Flee
the Country.
W'vsiiinotu.v, June 15. Following a
fries of conferences at tho State De
partment to-day between Secretary of
fctnte LinsiiiR and certain members ot
me iJipiomauu corps vtusmugion m
full of rumors that some of the other
Powers l:ve offered their friendly
edicts in an effort to assist the United
States in solving tho Mexican altuutlon.
without resort to armed Intervention.
The diplomatic representatives of 'The' ae.lX in the Riranov.ich. dls-
Citc.it lirltuln, llrazll, Honduras and trlct. on the noithcru front. Is supposed
Coeta Rlci were unions those who i "i.tsk a movement by German troops.
. ,, , ... ., , ... . I'l'hc Hermans aro weakening their lines
talked with the .secretary of State. , tllc ,leii.ht,,.rhood of the Uglnsky
All of these; Governments are canal, where there Is a good natural de
.nxioiis that there should bo no armed - "rmi, RaIcf
Imcrvcntlon on the part of the United j vitchl to Kovel to throw troops south to
States, tin. IaiiIii countries because of the other side of the Plnsk marshes in
their tntditlomt! distru-t nf the Intcn- '
lions nf the t'nlt.'d st it.-M nri., 1
lir tain for v.rloi , remis .none
llntuln for t.irlous rcu-ons. ..monB
which may be mentioned her desire
not to bee any dc elopmeilt which muy
interrupt tho operation or the Uritlsti ,
nO ... r..m..l..-. ..-V.A..-.a
oll concessions at Tumplco, whence
now coiner niuM of the fuel oil being
Used by the British navy.
Both at the State Department und at '
the chancelleries coiKcrncd there Is ix
decided dls(iosltltm not to tllscuss the (
purpose oi to-tiay s conierencea. it
ij ..r. untr. Vt tel. t t-i n .1 ntl rnl
llriiiilun emlHLSsles. there Is consider-'
Rble concern over the possibility that' .iiol Cubit Unin-h to Tar. So. '
recent developments In Mexico and I-o.mkin, June. 1J. While there are1
aloiu tho larder may In the near 'signs of a gradual stiffening of the Aus- j
future force the United States to Inter- ! tr'-Hungarl,tn leslstance to the advance
Vtno. (of Gen. HrusllolT's armies In Volhynla,
l.ltl Oft" Any Moment.
sr.y moment throw mp the sponge and
f'-e me coun'r) Should this happen,
t.ieie i giave concern over what might
Immidlately follow during the Inter
regnum. Tin re U hope that On. Ohregon, who
thu- far has turned nside nil temptutlnns
tn betray C.tnanz.i, might In the event
tf Hie l.i't.r's departure seek to control
iiffa.is until a new government Is set up.
3bit Willi the Zapatistas lurking In the
t'Uttkirt of Mexico city, awaiting op
portunity to Krallfy their appetite for
Inut .md plunder, the prospects are suf
fiiently grave to have caused officials
h-ie to take iirecautlons to get Ameri
can out of he country as quickly ns
Iosiuie should such an emergency
srlsH.
One of the armv transports Is now
rnr,g coaled at New Orleans to lie ready
to proceed lo Taiuplro or other east
coist norts to take off refugees. The
rsvy transport Hancock, now en routej
to Santo Domingo with marine re-
, V , .
jnfnaenients for Admiral f '', r
been ordered to proceed from there to
tTA Cruz T he transport ',U' J ' '
b'en sent down the west coast of Mex
Ico from San Diego, C.il.
No etv Reports of It Iota.
Although In the past twenty-four hours
Ihtir lave been no fresh reports of
rr.ll. 1neriea11 demonstrations oinclals of
the Mate Dep trtment are still concerned
ever the origin of those which sprang
ip suddenly a few days ago in various
Mated p-trt of northern "Mexico.
U'fiits of the Department of Justice
re utnlei stood to be following clues
rcmta.i .j in circumstantial Information
leeeitt'l hen. Unit tfie Mexicans Involved
In th- ecpnt raids across the border were
hired like so many New York gunmen
to und, it-tk-e the attacks nnd that
n.'jiH-y for this purpose was tielng sup
Illfil Iron, -nine source In liberal quun
titles 1 iiiieiais litre are disposed to
rusisrt wo-ditei ventlon Interests! not
only ni .M.xirn but in tho United States.
Th i.-iMii.nit peons who form tho rank
M tde ,f tun- rnlding parties, the
w'n li i, Government has been In
Ii.rnU'i .line hern led by their leaders
Hln ., iii.it (centually they will he
'le to t..,,vei all or part of Texas for
Jlexnr, ',e leadciH. who appear to be.
'nrnviu-r, nr.- said to be Inspired by
corn ,.i , 1 ,, nvitlves.
The tn ,1 an rtply to the Carranza
J101' 1 ti t..i 1 10 Kn forward within
tns ntv f .itj.eiuli' hour. The tenta-'itt-
iln .1 ir- imed liy Secretary Lansing
!S I iKell liv hnn In the Whltn ffflllfie
to-ilay where l,.. mid the President ills
cusse.i it . enKth, Knw, If any.
rhai
g"- trr rani to havo been mude by
Wi Pre lilent
I 'nil nir its del. very the Department Is
"'iiinuiiig io lay th.- groundwork for
r,,i '' w " "V and also for what
Jslloti t.. i ,,,.,, H.(.K mv ,atcr no
. ''' " hv 'dvlslng I'arrunza of
li freh oiilraKt- n It occuis. Tues
' he vvim tod at once of the raid on
L ' ""lliau ranch near Laiulo with thu
. ,'v"r of a body among tho raiders
j'''""''1 i a lii.it f Llfiit.-Col. Luis VII
"'sal i i an ana oiiicer, wearing u
"Nit i-t nif ,rin, . (
Ie-diy win n tu. W'ur Depurtment re.
Owtmucit on Sixth I'agr,
Meantime ollb a s of the American.!,, si..... vi,...i.. n.i. . I ..... .. ...J I toeir .ucihhk ......
. .u . . .. ............ .-...,.. . -1 1 or iioeasioestt aim 111.11 oeriO'to teen- tlmi In oor luilirnit-nt no reason de.
C ni-riunent are atmrelienslte that any . thten t.n nt ,.r rn r.n ...it.. i..-.tti.. r,.i,. I 1 . .., 1 ""' m our junkiutiii. no rt ason tie-
"J"-"., "" bc "lo" "'. 'he Miu.hernmost strU. of the Huko PaY.nc.ngVu
nie'i'e e,e evidence to-day that In- Ivr' t ua- ,u" ,lh,5 ,,f wrl"-rs tU"Ur ,lut ,h" alV mS tl .rWs an, ' be
tin tl, is hive eacheo the Slate De- J', I ... ,?fcl " ar:""d ha,lf '""'" "re already checked Major ,.;r expenditures for additional faclll-
1.: U , more or le.s'c'rcum-l Mht. In the ,rUnir To M-.ff. treats wlllell our proposals Involve;
i',n,n.i f,,r, thai fnrranra mlL'ht at " "J. VB V1 no1 'fm .olhrila. the olTenslve more seriously He says; was anything presented to Justify your
CZERNOWITZ EVACUATED
AS RUSSIANS PRESS ON;
AUSTRIANS ISOLATED
Bucharest Despatch Says Teutons Burned Railroads
After Abandoning Bukowina Capital Kovel
Is Threatened.
VfiH Cable ImiMilcli to Till Si.
Pktuouhap, via 1-ondon, June 13
lluchaiest advices state that the Aus
trian have evacuated Ciernowlt. taking
a number of arrested civilians nlong.
It l ndded that the lallroad stock
was pent to lUUanl and that the trucks
were destroyed ty the retreating Aus
trian us far as Volksgarten In few
miles southwest of Czernottltz). Trains
full of wounded weie sent to Dtrnavatra.
violent iignung continues inr n.cerni. inree commanders ami .-.im. oiner
bridgehead of Ciemowltz. The fortlll-
rations aie on the light hank of the I
liver, much higher than the left bank,
which Is In Russian hands The at
tacking Russians, therefore, are com-1
pletely exposed to the enemy's tire. The j
liter at this point Is nearly 200 yards
wide and fourteen feet deep. j
-Military experts here believe that the
Russians now occupy the entire line of I
the Stryp.i and that a wedge has been I
driven Into the emmy's front In Vol- )
hynla forty miles deep and seventy-.
live miles wide at Its Kite,
This wedge separates the Austrian!
from the (lernians and threulens Kovel.
one of the most Important railroad
Junctions and a valuable Austrian base.
The wedge south of the Dniester,
which Is thirty miles deep and thlrty
llve miles wide. Isolates the llukowlna.
lloth wedge are steadily deepening and
widening. The Austrian, however, ure
Mill holding In the Tarnopol district.
The Russians are confident that the
uecf!,, of xMr ,,. wl)1 h;lve the
dtslred effect upon the situation at Tar.
nopol. Czcrnowltz Is regarded now as
practically Isolated not only from the
rest of the Austrian force, but also
ftom Austria The omy communications
t-1 111 open are a light railway to Kutty
and a line into Translvanla which Is
not connected, with the Austrian main'
th - e lloI)e ' trrestln- the Russian ml- I
vance along the ltovno-Kovel line.
Kur,her ''UUth rc"'rt ,he
rjer,,,.,,, mothol of stiffening tho Au-
trun resistance I to take up a post-
tion behind the Atistrlans and shoot them '
ir tney retire, raptured Germans make .
tin AfrjHnnt fn tltmt aiflinttf .aft
attempt to dlsruls their dlsfrust.ut
Austrian failure. They believe their own
lln" wl" b ln '""ns"- 'f, the Russian
prew" ,ar cno"B" ,ur" ,n8 '
' "
TfCIJTOVS )4Af TAXI)
r I
Three Points, llnnrvrr, !
l.alicia and the llukowlna, tlie German
aid rushed to the south beginning to
make Itself felt, the Teutons were unable
ni'ii, afcoriunir in a siaieiiieni issued
by the Austrian War Utile, this after-1
V " ""'7
over the river on Wednesday, losing
i.-eu men nnu eignt omcers m prison.
r-
Everywhere els,, the Russians nisde ,
further substantial gain during the last ,
tu..n....fn... 1..,..- tt.
furious battle now under way ruges
near Uokatiftl, where, according to
to-night's olllelnl rti)rt from Vienna,
cavalry" has dismounted on both sides to
take a hand In I he combat,
Thlrt Mile. West of l.utsk.
The Austtlan admission that tho t.o
katchl region Is the scene of this violent
fighting shows that the Russians already
have swept about thirty miles to tho
west of I.utzk and are thirteen miles
( fj
Ihe Gallclan border, which they
0111
hato already crossed to the west and.
south. I.okatehl Is only thirty-two miles 1 in the Auttro-llungariau lines in Un
due south of Kovel. which is thus men- dliectlou of Jvovt-l continues It In-
- one siiuin in ivuvei, which in ituis iiien-
I need from the south as well as from
I B0UIM8, Th vltlil strategical
j railway Intersection Is threatened prl -
madly "by the Russian army now around
GEN. GAVIRA EXECUTED
FOR AIDING PERSHING
Fiiccs Ciiminn Finny Siiinl
-Tninsliitcd First Chiefs
Words Too Literally.
I'.i. Paso, June IS. Gen. Gabriel Ga- "ferial Cable lietpateh tn TnR ?t-s
vlra. recent commander .if Juarez, and ! v. Am-t""' via I.ndon, June IK.
' t . ,, . , , , , , New clothing regulations which have
Gen. Ohregon s chief adviser In the In- ,,,. ssm, , fjermany prescribe, ex
tetnatlonal ennferenen with Gen. Hugh I ceptlug corsets, hats, caps, veils, sue
L Scott last mouth, was shot to death I lenders ami the most expensive men's
by carranzlsla ,,,-ing sqinid y-stcrday ! -'rt'''I7t ,''' '"ilra'havef.!;.
In Mexico ily, in tiling to advices that
reached here to-night
Gatira's life Is supposed to have been
the penalty for his recent unauthorized
conference with Gen. Pershing, com
mander of the United States punitive ex
pedition, with quill ters nt Nainlqulpa
The conference took place two weeks
ago nt Casas Grande, and although It
lasted two days nothing was accom
plished, unit. Gavlra Is believed to have trans
lated too literally the diplomatic profes-
..i,..,.. i,e tin. Ccuranza Government
to thu effect that all possible cooperation
u-nnlil be extended to tho Aniei lean
forces in their hunt for Villa and the
scutlered remnants of his bandit band
ut the time Carranm renewed his prom
ises of roopcrallon through Ihe medium
of Minister of Wur Ohregon.
Shortly oftcr the close of Ihe Scott
Obregon confercnccr (Jen. Qavlra was
removed from Ihe head of the Juarex
Harrison' and replaced by den. Oonialctt.
A few days ao ho was summoned to
Mexico city by Oen. Obregon.
t
Kolkl and on the eastern bank of the
Rtokhod River, which crosses the Hotel-
llovno line twenty miles south of Hotel.
In the fighting In horlheatcrti Huko-'
W'lna the Austrian War Ofllce asserts the I
Russian high command Is Indulging In I
a "reckless waste of human material."
It Is admitted.' that the Austro-Hutigarlan
troops here eere forced to yield to the
ltusslan weight of numbers.
I'etrogrud otllcially put tho total num.-1
ter of prisoners taken thus far In t!ie j
new offenslte at 102,6ti6. In this mini'
ber. It Is stated, are Included one Gen-
omcers.
The Olllelnl llcniirt.. I
The Russian olllclal statement follow
The offenslte of lieu ilrusiloff con.
Unties.
The enemy continues counter at
tacking at several points and Is busy
Intrenching himself In bis new po
sitions. Supplementary reports state that
the following numU-r of prisoners and
(Itianttty of booty have been captured .
One r.eiieral. three Commanders.
2.4G7 officers. 5 doctors nnd 150,0(10
men, 163 cannon. 26f machine guns.
133 bomb throwers and 32 mine
throwem.
The dernun statement said
The army of Gen. von llothincr re.
pulsed several attacks delivered In
dense waves by the Russians near and
north of Przewloka.
The latest official Austrian report. Is
sued to-night, follows
South of ltojtn and north of Czer-
nowltz we repulsed the Russian and
frustrated an attempt to cross thu
l'ruth.
The enemy has crosed the lloro-denka-Snlatyn
line to the vest for a
short distance
Hitter lighting Is in progress near
Wlsnlowozyl South and west of
l.utzk the situation I unchanged.
Near 1-okatchl dismounted .cavalry
on both sides participated In the light
ing. Hctween the Rovno-Kovel railway
nnd Kolkl fresh enemy divisions at
tempted at several points to cros the
Stokhod River ami the Styr. They
were repulsed with heavy losses
An earlier statement said .
The Austrian War (.'trice statement
follows
;ast of Kolkl the Russians reached
h I'ft bank of the Styr on Tues.lav
t, Wednesday we drote tliem bark
ncros the titer, rapturing t oilkers
and 1.SH0 men, as well as 13 ma-
chine guns.
V.Lii.....
Northwest of Tarnopol we caitured j
a height
In northeastern llukowlna the pres
sure of hostile forces outnumbering
ours anil used In a reckless waste of
human material, forced us to disen
gage our troops from the enemy and
take them back
MORAIIT SURPRISED.
Berlin Critic Siijs IIimiiIsii.s slim,
1 "" l-i ru ,
Siirrint Cable DeMpatch In Tut si.v
ItorrtliDtM, v la lindon. June 15 The
Russian offensiv.' Is discussed b the
military critics of the Genuan papers, i
wno mainly declare that there Is no need
" A ltlmin.1, ul".iU ,.f tli lttid.,n .ffM..- '
nad ,.,. Mn,e(, lt .,s har.lly ex- I
pecitst mat tne new forces would oe ai.ie t
t() ;,nch a general offensive on a 250;
n,M,. fr0. u K obvious that the Rus- '
ilinin :in Kliftwlni .in iitierinitnon .'imnnnl
f onergy Their advance Is in. slight
ae'l'''c""'n,t' . . , ., .
"We will do well to remember that
2.000,000 young and strong men for
military service. The pr.t-ent develop
ment, however. Is chielly due to sup.
plies of munition and guns from Auiei
leu and Japan.
lie no 11 o In Southern lliissln tlen
nceil. tpennl Calile heipatvh to Tim bus
lxi.N'lioN, June IS. The Petiouiai
correspondent of tlie 7"iic leb graphs:
The extension of the Russian breach
i voltes
d. r 1
, ling I
s the right think of the army tin-
Prlnco Leopold of Ravarla, ronipel-
h in to bend his Hank to cover h s
rear communications,"
GERMANS MUST LIMIT
BUYING OF NEW SUITS
' 'lotliiiir; Cards to W Issued
liy Authorities for Fsn
After .Inly :tl.
nshed the Oovntnnieiit with a complete
Inventory of tnelr slocks.
One-flfth of tho stock on hand may
then bn sold until July 31, after which
no clothes tin tho reserved list may be
sold without the production of a cloth
ing card Issued olllclally. No card will
be Issued except to persons who produce.
absolute proot of their need of new
clothes
The .Hurnchrner .Veiienle .Yncniicntcii
prints au Interflow with Tortllowltz von
Unlock!, Ill WHICH ipo Herman loon ine-
'ininr Is riuntert us saving
I "Only an average harvest Is to be
, exnecled. nnd certainly this will bo be
low the peace aveiiigo, .xiorover, mere
Is no hope of such nu abundant potato
crop as In l'Jir.. The cattle outlook Is
unsiitlKfactory. Very few cuttlo nto icady
for slaughter In norlh Gciinany. Tho
milch rows perhaps will bo sufficient,
and Ihero also aro plenty of calves, but
the whole situation of rattle for slaugh
tering la very bad. The same le true of
hogs. The,' outlook for the fruit und
vegetable pope la not very food."
RAILROADS' OFFERS I
SPURNED BY UNIONS
Jlrothcrhoods, Quitting Con
ference, Arrange for Vote
on Great Strike.
SPLIT OX A HIUTKA TIOX
Employees' Lenders lfefnse to;
Accept Proposed Wn.vs
to Peace.
The niiferenrp between the gmernl
manager nf the railways ami represents-
tlves of tho four big brotherhood of rail-
way employees came to an end yesterday!
nfternoon, when the last peace overture j
of tn( rawiiv managers was rejected
bv the ..mnlovee. Within .... hour after
adjournment piepai.itlons bad been
begun to submit a strike vote not only
to the 400,01)0 union men on the road - of
the country but to every other employee,
non-union or union .:ery one of them
will be asked to vote on tho question:
Ale iol willing to leave the service
of the tallro.id by which oU aie em-1
ploed nnU s a settlement may be
leached by the commltlte and Jour
representative""
A two-thirds tote will mean a strike,
throughout the country on all train,
except mall and milk trains, and In every'
yard, terminal and roundhouse, unless
at a later session an agreement is1
readmit. The attitude of the union
' leaders as the conference md as
. that under no clicumt-tauce, now or bore-
aftor, would they consent to anj foim of
I arbitration In which It would be j sslble
for a man to lose an thing in way
, of double compensation, arbitrary pay
I or any other peniulsJle.
l'roMtnnl Ili'Jcrti'tl li I'lilons
One of the proposals rejected by the
union leaders esterdav afternoon was
tliat the intlte question should be sub-
mltted to the Interstate Commerce, Con.-'H"'"
niltte.1 to tne intexnaie om.ntr.c t.oni
mlssloner for decision, or If they are
for decision, or If they are
ic power, that both sides Join
i.. t.. ,..., 1-uIml- th-.t
Ion to t.ungrcis. asklni, that
Issloners be given power t. de-
.. i ..,i.i., -.i....
without the
In a pctltl
thu I'.iHinU
tide,
unde
The second was for arbitration
ii.. v,,,.!,,,,,!- ,ri which was
passed largely through the effectlte work
of A 11 tiarretson, president of the
Order of Railway Conductor and ch.ur-
! nun of the union men at the conference.
! and W G, I.t e, president of the Urutl.er-
hooil or Jlaliway j rainmen, . w no was
present.
The final proposal made b the rail-
I ....... ... . ilr.t. it ii. .ift.-r i
I 111.. II. .r, o ... ' .. !
session on Wednesday which lasted uuti
midnlirht It was tin sole older of bust
It was tin sole oi.l.r of bust-
mss wnen tne unai meeting was openeu
..... ...
I at 2 :3U o clock yesterda) afternoon looked as If the nominations would "ot . ,,, .. u-ngth befoie concurring In
I Pravtlcally all of the general manager. come until the .-arlv hours of the m"J"- L ,,,ltform declaration which could be re
who have attended the confeieine were Ing and us If it would be daylight be-1 ,.'.,, ., t.. i ,., .iiu,, ....
present, and the hail of the Knglneerlng
j .-..cifiif .. nut'.. ..hi. mi- iii-.rK'..':.-
I from the unions on the various road- ,
, Kllslia I.te, vice-president of tlie Penn
sylvania Railroad, chairman of the Joint
conference, called the meeting lo old.'.'
' und without further prel miliary read:
I "The national cunferi rice commute-
.()Ur r'0oar -.'ml
,,f tnclr nV-aiiliiK and"
of the railways has carefully considered
)uur explanation
Intended appllc.t-
11....1 .1
Usls of cmmien;.,;!,;,; for men m 1
cnKne, train and yard servlc
Three Interest to .insider.
"We are confident that you and ihe
men you represent appreciate tlie ie.
sponslbllltles tn three substantial In
terests, viz:
1. (a) To the employees here In
volved whose elllcleiit seivlce Is ai -l.iiowiedgeil
and with whom ihe rail.
I o. ols have hail no dlffereiici s which
cannot be considered fairly and de
cided Justlv bv some Impartial body
(b) To all other employees of the
lallways whoso material welfare
should not suffer because of the pre
ferment of any particular group of
fLllow workers.
2. To the owners of the lallways,
who bale a rlgbl to partl.ipale In the
earnings of their business on a fair
and eqii. table basis,
3. To the public, who are vitally in
terested i"'1 mulntf uatic.li of au un
interrupted and elllcleiit transporta
tion service, and whose ultimate con
ttol of the situation we all lecoguUe
us fundamental.
We reiterate the statement nlven by
the railways nnd iep",iti-d to you by
this committee, that Ihe railways have
no desire to change either the existing
rates of pay or woiklng rules, nor to
le duett the earning possibilities of the
employees under their existing sched
ules, but your proposals, in connection
with Interpretations given during our
lonfcreiiics, aie so Inherently and
fundamentally opposed to the views
of this committee that we feel con
strained to decline and do hereby de
cline them
Ways to Peace Propo.etl,
"Our conference have demonstrated
that we cannot harmonize our differ
ences of opinion and that eventually
.-.j In i.j.iit . ,.v ni-Ht must lie
t lie ill,...'-, " ." .- - ,
passed upon by other and disinterested I
agencies" The ptopos.il was then
made that the luterstaie t iiiiinn rci'
Commission act in the fontrovcisy or
that the questions in dispute he
arbitrated.
Thele was not a hound In the hall as
Mr Lee finished reading. Then the , me iJcinocrauc cunuiuaio ior uovcrnor
silence was broken by Mr. iarretsmi, I of Pennsylvania.
who declined to uci'i'l.t the new imipiisalH. The members of tlie National Coin
It was well known, he said, Unit the In- millet.' aro resentful of the selection of
.a-..,...... l-.i'tm.i.r,." dim mission .II. I not ! Mt'Cot mlik. but tbev will bow their
j,ilV0" tnp .M,w'er of fixing wages and It
, p(.ua.. w,.n known that tho com -
.nissi. inert did not waul to act as artil-
triitors. In any matter 'which ultimately
might enmu before mom in nn applica
tion for Inci eased freight rates, A for
the Newiands act, he added, the rullwuy
men and tho employers both realize that
It was well nigh Impossible lo obtain a
see of Impartial arbitrators with sulll
elent technical Information to decide so
complex a question.
"And now," concluded Mr. Garretson
smlllnglyi "we bid jou an affectionate
adieu."
That was the end. It was 'not bitter
nor angry. Railway managers, some of
Whom once were employees themselves,
shook hands with tho brotherhood
leaders and the hall cleared rapidly.
WILSON AND MARSHALL NOMINA TED
BY ACCLAMATION; PRESIDENT FORCES
THE ISSUE ON DIVIDED ALLEGIANCE
DELEGATES, BY
THREATS, FORCE
NOMINATIONS
-
, . , .
wUll'fer 01 fM'iUlt H'OWU 10
Launch Ticket Leads to
Lony: Xitfht Session.
OLD LEADERS NESEXT
CHOICE OF .McCOlLMK'K
Dictation by the President
Leaves Scars in the Xa
tional Committee.
ST Louis. June 15. The tlelecatis to
i the Democratic contention Dually have
bail their way nbout It. They forced
the leaders to undertake the nomination
of President and Vice-President Instead
of waiting until late to-morrow or
I Saturdaj.
Among the delegates who refused to
I stay In St. I.ouls any longer were the
j Tammany men. They served notice they
would not stay later than I'rlday after
"oon.
The In. II who had tome will, creden-j
" !,Ur"11 O"" l'ut iS,iv'1 l"'mo' '
..,th,rliiir b id grown tired of '
"",L -" "an i,roii uroi
' "'u g'nng nau hrowu ..re
carrying out the programme handed to ;
tlit-m piecemeal from Washington, and
'
onl wa u' loul" '""'", !
longer wa through a promise of Im-,
longer wa tliroiwn a iiromise oi im-,
mediate action on tlie Important business. I
As il wa.-. a liUuU lll.ill p.4CieM men ,
suit cases and stalted for home to-day,
leaving alternate to act for them.
While the party leaders yieweu. tney
J)Ut ,ff the session us long as pokslble
ami it was ulier a t ciock io-niKiii wnen
tne convention got down to tho business
,jf making the nominating speeches. It
.. .. ,1... I., I... ,.f ..... I..i..l..ru .it tli..
, ., - ,. i i , ,. li e i iesineiii was iut7iait.-i. 111 iii-ai iuiic
was tlie luttiitlon of thu leaders al tlie ,, . ,,. .,,,
... i....i.. .,f .1... t..l.... t,. It rlirht I
session lo mi ritcnv 1
through until all the business of the !
... , .. i
intentlon nan oeen wound up unu
fore the platform was adopted anil all ,
. , , , ,
of the convention concluded
i
tne iieti.
(ile lp Day to IMcnles.
Democrats ate nototious for their rec
ord of night sessions, republicans have
more regard for their own comfort and
Insist upon early adjournment This
year, however, there seemed to 1 no
excuse at all for the all night Democratic
shliulj Vet the daylight hours were
piisx'd over to-da.v and the inuventlon
proceedings cut shoit 111 older that the
delegates might attend picnics iinj go
Joy riding. In fact the evening session
was made an hour later so that the St.
Louis folk who hail arranged soclil do-
l r... -I... .'.1.1.1 t.lul,,,-- "il.'lit ,t,.t
oiks im in.- .nun... ...-ii.m.-
,',,'1l!1,'a!r
'I lie Democratic chieftain are count
ing now on tlie geneioslty and good
nature of the St. Louis people They
bad nromise.l the St Loulsiilis a four
day contention. In return for winch they
Iliad got Jliiii.no" for expenses. .tra
I that the delegate. Have run away witn
! the show the leailtis feel the hotel keep.
eis and others will have to take thtlr
liii'dictue without mumbling
It was u foregone tonclusion that
' Piesldelit Wilson would be ie nominated
1 probably by uivl-imatmn. and us tho
hours passed It was clear that Thoma
R Mai shall would iik.iIii be the miming
mate.
, A considerable tliitry ti Democratic
I circles was caused to-day when it be
, came known that the New York dele
gation had ilecltbtl at a special nuetlng
in the morning to present tlie name of
I Ambassador James V Gerald to the
convention as it 'favorite son" candidate
I for the Vli i-Piesideiicj .
This (ictlou was taken after it bail
become apparent that many of the New
Voil, delegates were opposed lo the re.
i nomination of Mr Marshall The gen-
cr.tl understanding by night, however,
was that the Gerard boom was not to be
tnken veiy seriously, but that the chief
purpose was one of strategy liy plunk
ing I'o votes to Gerard for Vice-President
on the first ballot Charles V Miirphy.lt
' was pointed out, would be rellev. d from
' any embarrassment that might have
arisen from a n-qnest to support Sulll
.tan. If Sullivan entered the convention
with a large block of Illinois deligates
, and had New York's ninety added to
! t)i-ni he would have made all Impressive
'showing, and II was men that with a
two-thlld volt, necessitiy to nominate
the situation might have proved discon
certing to President Wilson and Mar
' sb. ill's friends,
. The feeling among many of the Demo.
1 c-iatlc leaders against White House dic
tation found exptesslon anew Pi.d.iy
when word reached beie from President
Wilson that he desired to hive Value
Mi'Gormlck of Hurtishurg, Pa., uuiiuil
I as chairman of the Democratic! National
Coiunilltee. Mr M.-Cormick, thu old
i Yale football player and coach, Is a
man of considerable wealth, a news-
' paper publisher and two years ago was
' heads to the tlie Piesident's dictation
iln 'his caso as In all others. Many of
tiiiin declined in urst in neiii-vu tn.it tne
lepoits namlnvt McConnli-k were true,
'lom Tnggnrt of Indiana said It must be
u Joke somebody huh playing on th"
numbers of tho National tommltlee.
Some uieniiiers of the coiiimlttet. appar
ently hail novel hi nnl of Mr. Mc
Comtek, and there wa a great scurry
ing nbout to ret u line on him after tlie
edict came limn the While House.
The selection of Mr. McCirmlck was
liilerpreleil here u.t u further bid by
President Wilt-on for Progressive nip
jKiit, It was ice ailed thut Mr, Mc
Cormlck was Indorsed by. tho Progres
sives of Pennsylvania when ho ran for
Computed on Scfcoid Page.
WILSON INSISTS
FOR PURE
Flat Warning Against Any Wavering in Platform Sent
to St. Louis President Was Ready to Go Him
self and Compel Obedience.
ASHiMiio.N, June If. -At 12:401 thu political campaign, Nut n, docs
oc.o.k this mormug Secetaiy Tumulty .StlSS Hay spnch
learned by longdistance telephone from tmt a h0rt t 0ntlc.tl blackmail is
one of the I'resldint's reprtsfcntatltes at being levied but It thrusts directly at
St. Louis that the platform committee ny political party which permits Its
, , , . , .. . , , I policies or platform declarations to be
had adopted the Ameilcan plank sub-, ,,,,,, i,y th- threat of such blackmail,
mitteil by the White House without any 'Tim plank will hato the elTect of cli.irg
change of phiaseology. i Republican paity has shaped
Kariler in the evening thete bad .JTemii
fears that it serious situation might grow citizens
out of thu President's Insistence on such
a plank
enatt Stone of Mlssouil.i
among wlioso
constltutnls are .n.iny.
Germans, was undeistood to bo leading
tlie opposition,
Tho President had uolltled the tout
mltto that he would not consent to
substantial modification of the plank
he has submitted through Secretary of
War llaker.
The President's notification was
drawn forth by leports from the con
vention city to tlie effect that the plat
form committee regarded the formula
tion of this particular plank as a vexing
problem and that they were striving to
deal with the matter In u declaration
which would coter disloyalty but would
tontalu nothing lo ottend the feelings of
decent naturalized citizens,
These it purls bail an Irritating effect
upon tome of the President's adviser
liele. Connected with statements that
tho onventinn's decision to nomlnati
President In uilvnn. e of the plat-
form 'J1'0 to ' l,lcult' ttlll,ln ",''
eonimltlee In reaching an agieement.
they gave rise to the qu. stlon of whether
they gave rise to the qu. stlon of whether
or not thw lrelli.t nilKlit ciioountr real
dllllcultles in enforcing Ills own views.
Democratic leaders are not forgetful
f fct that the policy of "scuttle,".
..,,,,,.. , Mri..,r.. r..f,iiitlnnl
elnlMllieJ n t,e Mcl-emore resolution'
several months ago, found widespread
Car.
gtess. They could be easily convinced
that the attitude of the members of Con
gress was on accurate reflection of a
suusian.iai ... i-niiwnns sr....-
ment.
Wilson In et l tireeli.il.
,,, ' iiri,i.. i wV. nreti.-ir.Ml to dViil forte-
...I ....n..l 1,1- ..,ll-.r.
- .
"' -.' -.....','
. . .. . i
"', "V, , J ,;.. "... ',,
V I'll. r. I. lull upt-u lb . iiiiiiui
... ,, ,.. i.ri..,ieiit would mi to al
Kttf (n thv jct. ()f t)lc MJllca disaster
gree in tne lace oi me pouuca! uisasier i
tlirtutetll.j tn. (;,.rmari Americans. I
It was said that if thu situation de-
iveloned In this direction, the Prislilenl
iiilglit Issue an ultimatum to the con.1 lt was reported this evening thai ( Moreland of Nebin.'.k i luiv ng failed to
vt ntlnll thai lie would nut nrrrpt the I those who talked to the White lIou , 1 1 1 1 1 set inns support
nomination for the I'reslilenry upon a ' got some pretty vigorous language bail: jf- MmisIi.'iII was placed in icnom
pliitform vthlch did nof tlx a rleun rut over the wire that .ft no iloubt that no jn.,i0ri i,v Seiintor Kern i Indiana
l"ur ... .....urn .-..cri-Mi tie .11. Kill
po prrtiliall lo St. I, mil lo driller III.
Mltlmitlom
The phmk whiili the I'resiileiit ' Senator Stone looked worried when Die er.itd. who was indorsed by tli. New
conveyed to the platform committee sub-inmnttlee left to et dinner, but i Vork delegation for Vice-President,
'thtough Secretary Maker is tlie strong. , neither he nor any of hi colleagues I vv a not pi esonteil to the convention,
est declaration on the subject of divided would discus what had gone on In the The Friday superstition V id Ifcn d9
cltlzenshio that has been made during committee, room. 1 ft-ried to. ultliniigh it tva a close raoo
WILSONS WALK IN
RAIN THREE MILES
While Hryiin Addresses Con
vention President and Wife
Take a Xhrlit Hike.
"iVvsiii.siiTiis', June LI - While William
J lliyan was delivering Ills spo.vh before
the Demociatlo convention announcing
hi support of WiHiiirow Wilson for the
Presidency Mr. and Mrs. Wilson wem
lulling a long walk In the rain
Mrs Wilson wore white kid shoes, a
transparent raincoat and a rubber hat
The l'leslderit worn a rubber cape and
lubber hat. Neither carried mi um
brella Without giving notice to the seriel
strvice men. who are required to trail stale couvt ntion w ho called at the White
the President on every occasion, Mr. and House in pit-sent a copy of the resold
Mis. Wilson walked out the front door 1 thins upprovtug his Administration w hlch
..r tli., VCl.lt.. Ilnilw.. -.li'irtlv lt',,r. 111 ...I .. ..... An.... !,.,. 1n
o'clock Into a steady downpour The
chief usher telephoned hurriedly to the,
executive olllccs, where the bodyguard
w-is i.ady for all emergencies.
. There was u hurrlul clasping of rain- i
coits In the Kxecutlve office, and in a ,
moment two figure were seen d.ishttig 1
I., .i... .iir.".ti.,.. r ti,.. ,M,st L-..t imitinif I
on ibelr watei'iuoofs a they dashed
At the Tit usury Dii.irtment corner the
puisulng paity turned in the illiecllon
of Potomac Park and lint lucalhless
newspaper men reau.eu iney oiiKiii us
well reconcile themselves lo a good
drenching.
The President walked with Mis II-
so'i arm in arm
Apparently he had no
special roiitu In mind, for tlie couple
walked part of the way around tlie
ellipse back of tho White House before
they tinned Into the path Unit leads to
the Washington Monument.
The Piesldelit und Mrs, Wilson circled
the monument and then took to the open
ronl Finally they turned Into a path
that ltd In the direction of tlie White
House. The President showed Ills Ull
familiarity with the path, however, or at 1
least his sense of direction was awry, ,
for eventually he had to take to a heavily
gravelled bridle path to get back to the
Whltn House
They walked p.ist the executive olllees,
where a contltnlius leport of tho per
formance at 'St Louis was being re
celved, and Into the White House
uroumlH ut precisely 10.30 o'clock. They
had walked nearly thlee miles.
The President telephoned over to Mr
Tumulty at the ottlces to hear of the
proceedings at St. Louis and subse
quently remained In his study, where ho
received a running report of the conven
tion proceedings,
Piesldt-nl Wilson did not it Willi the
final action of the convention. At mid
night, when the cheering evoked by
Judge Wescott's speech was In progress,
he went to bed.
ON PLANK
AMERICANISM
' , "r"11"" '"
UetelopmentH Indicated tlearly that
tin. lr...Mnt riM,!, nl.. tlilu tli ...p...
,.. M u
tloual campaign. -Mr Wilton Is repre
senled ns having mi tincompiomlslng
determination to force from ill. Hughe.
n declaration as vigorous as he believes
tho situation require. In other words
the President Is said to have resolved
thai -Mr. Hughes shall not be pel mltted
to retain the support of those foreign
bom citizens who are engaged in con
spiracies to debase AnKili'an politics by
foreign Influence
Tlie purely political side or tlie situa
tion I regarded a of great strategic
importance. The President's friends be
lieve that If Mr. Hughes subsequently
comes out In a ringing Aim-rlcanlsm ut
terance they can reasonably represent
the Republican candidate us having been
r.:,',it',r;...?,.rh:;,.1:';i, .I",!::'."',',"
Repuhllcau tanilldate on the defensive
before thu country- -a situation much de
sired by the Demociats
STOM-: IS WORRIED
Hollier.
I'ImiiL tin Aliierleniilsitl
Pint form sub-eoiiiinlll.-i'
St t.ort, June 1.'. lt was learned
this afternoon that the sun-committee
on resolution took up the question of
Americanism early In the day, but It
proved so bothersome that It was laid
aside until ust before the committee
concluded Its work this evening. Sena
tor Stone had several ' talks over tho
tnnD. .1lUtr.nAA tA1...V.,....l ..P..B..n,t.l.' ...itt.
Washington Gossip here Is that Senator l, r!"'- ""d" --coiiillm,' spceche
Stono lis been against the uu of strong ''' Gov. JiuKon Hurnioii of Ohio and
language In dealing with this question Unv riluurt of Vuglni.t
on account of his own large German
constituency He Is it'iMirteil to have vir.t...ii tti.. . ..i
regarded the Presidential phraseology ,,,,r W 1th..,., liu.e.u.
brought here by Secretary of War I Vice-President Marshall was re
llaker a being unnecessarily forceful nominated by iiccl.imntlon. Delegate
and likely to make trouble. j Hurke having no objection. The for-
Tbe reason the committee took up th I mllly waH j.ordci at 11:57 P M
jnans in tne nioriiuiK nnu men .a...
aside was because some of the members
n-.inted to sound the President out a lit-
tie inore on the matter, lt was said.
II1.M1IIIV ll"H r .11'- .i.. " "" t"......
sent on here from Washington would
I I...,., tti.i l.er.sl.l.xit'u i.niienV:.!
NATION'S SPIRIT MY
GUIDE, SAYS WILSON
Can Only He Sure of His .Mo
tives in Midst of I'neN
peeted Difficulties.
Wasiiimiton, June 15. "In the midst
of a great many unexpected dllllcultles a
man never ran be sure that lie Is taking
the wisest course," said President Wil
son lo. day "He can only be sure of the
motives thai prompt him In that course
and of the thoughts that He bark of the
con isc "
The President was speaking to a dele
gallon ftom inc. Virginia Democratic
acknowledging the tesolutlon tlie Pren -
j,.t said
),ad the plciisuie of seeing these
resolutions lien Ihcy weie pi luted after
the adjournment of the convention, and 1
lMI air. ady felt the encouing.viient
which tney brong it mo u generous
............. i.i i..ii.-..e- s
I nct ,, iln- pail of tlu convention to
have aniiointed a committee to come In
person to pi csenl these i esoliitions to me.
j u1t y p, know n the first place
tn it wnen you do tlie uonor oi mis soil
ju make me tt-el very piouil, but you
make me feel also veiy humble, because
I ... ti1H midst of a great many unexpected
dltlleulttes a m ill can never be sine that
, H takliq- tlie wisest colli se lie call
ij . sure of the motives thai prompt
I .im i ih,.i enur-ie, mid of the thoughts
,Mt C back of the coutse.
"j have been saturated an nn uto
p, t1(1 timlilloiii of American history,
1 , , wlilcii Virginia lias made su.ii uliuii-
' ,unt n,ntnbutlorn. and I feel Unit the
spllit thai anlmults a nation is the
soil It which lis l'.xei'iitlvi. ought ut
least to try lo liiteipret and put Into
action That has been my endeavor,
ami that I have won, in ailing upon
those principle, the affectionate admi
ral ion and support of my native State
gives mc deep and proud grnllllcatioii.
WILSON "VERY GRATEFUL."
Ill Only ( oiooienl When tiMlkened
by 'I'll in il liy With ,ti',
U AsniNimi.x, June l.i. -Al 12 .'."i
o'clock rlils morning Secretin Tumulty
awakened Preslib lit Wilson to telephone
him the news of his nomination, The
I 'resident said
"I am very guileful to my geneixius
f I lends."
No oltlcl.il comment w.u made.
One Dissentinir Vote for
Wilson Cast by Delegate
llnrke of Chicago.
WKSCOTT .M'STIFIES
"WATCH ITL WAITING"
-Has Ket Cs Out, of War,
He Says Lauds Mexi
can Policy.
(iALLEKV AXD FLOOR
CHE Ell 10 3IINUTES
Dryan Eulogizes President
t'onventioii Adjourns
to 11 o'clock To-dav.
Convention llvu, St. Iiuis, Jun
111 (Friday).
I r I'ri vlilt-nl Won. Iron Wilson of
.New Jerey.
Fur Vlre.l'renlilenl Tlinmu II. Mar-
Ii til I nf Indiana.
Tlus ticket was I t-noiiiiiiated by th
'"'-atic National Convention l thu
Coli-eum here u few minutes befor
midnight to-nlglit. The President vva
not literally nominated by acclamation,
one tlt'l.'K.ite defiantly shouteil "No"
wnen ciiiiirnian OUR. .lames put the
(nicstiui, Tin. was Delegatf at I.arco
Itnbirt Kmmet liurke of Clilcngn.
It took the bliKim off the rne Sen
ator .tames whs obliged to unnounc
the vott 1,092 to 1 The rcnomlna
tlon of Mr. Wilson was accomplished
nt ll.r.ti P. M , alter u iiomlnatlnK
speech by Judge John V
t .
Wescntt of
... Jltttlll i i . . ...
. opposition , rumbled ..w a he
, ' "nillil.icies of l.ouer Milllvan of I1U-
, nni. Gov. M.ijot of MltMillli and Gov.
rri,.. i or,. n.i u,,-,m.l .11 .-Kmli..
I'll." nanie of Ambassador James W
Villonrn I I i. 'Clock,
Al A. M. a commute vv is ap
pointed to unit mi tin- platfoim com-
llllttee to see if il could i;cl Its leport
ready within reasonable t.me. and so
! wind up all tetiialnlng . invention
work. It liiul bis'ii In session .it ths
Planters Hotel since early Thursday
I morning,
', At 12:30 A. M. Senator llighes of
New Jersey reported Hint t ie pi.itform
Committee was nimble to h.iv when It
could report. There were cries of "Ad- '
Jotirn" and Let's gu tn 11"
At 12:3.. A. M, Chairman .lame put
the question nnd a recess vvus ndered
until 11 A M to-duy
At 12. ir. A. M. the ti.inm.itee on
resolutions slnmi-,! n simi "f con
cluding Us. labor A delxi'e had started
nver the tntllT plank Hut threatened
to be protracted An elfort wis being
nude to limit tlie dbAiisston. but with
no avail. Tlie old line Deinncra's were
objecting strenuously to tho wording
of the proposed planlc n a dep mure
from utile hnnnivil Demix '.itic princi
ple Chairman Siniie .it 1 o'clock, nn
niuiiicetl that ihe i.l.itf.'i m i ommltteo
! Il tul.ill vvtiiild cntliiiii in session for
tw greater pari oi me mgiii. no sum
I that the planks on fnteuii policy, pro-
parcdness. .Mcxiio and tint tariff hnd
)lrl . m t -t I. tit that nothing hart
, , , . ,,. , , ,mimlltr on
' ....
such impori-ni' matter. ua suffrage
and prohibition The inininlttce, he
s.lld, would toiitllille its lulsirM until
I the platfoi nt was finished
J Later it tvu.s lepofted that tho full
ciimtitlttco Iiiih passed tho American
ism plank It him be n nuulo "as
strong as l.iiigiiago cm maUo It with
out using the word 'hyphenate,'" ac
cording to a member of tho committee,
Tho voto on the Americanism plank
tvus iiniiiilinuiis.
At 2 o'clock this morning a fight
vvus started In the full committee on
tho Mexico plunk, submitted by the
sub-commlttcc. Tim opposition ecu
trt-d on the shutting nf tlio door com
pletely ng.iitist liilci'vctilitiii. tho nub
committee having, approved the Presi
dent's draff, vviiiiii dwelt on the right
nf .Mexico to manage its own iiffalrs
Itself
IIRYAX'S VOICE RIXGS
IX WILSOS'S PRAISE
Women lie li'Hiile Led llnnufr for
'Wilson. I'fnr. Proif rlT."
CiiNVUNTios IImi, St lilis, Jun
15, The appro nil of thu night session
found an luimetisc, ciowd besieging th
doors of the Coliseum, Thousands packed
the ttreeis and drove solidly against th
police (uerds '
At It I'. .1, VVIICII Oil' ' H 'If to-.
llS.'b.. -.-tot.
