WSJl
' ',tV!Fl
NIGHT
EXTRA
FINANCIAL EDITION
ittmtma
IMnier
NIGHT
EXTRA
. TJ. n.-NO. 237
1'ICtLADELPIttA, JTEtDAT, JCJOS 10, 1010.
CorrttonT, 1018, t ins rcstio Lzeon Commht.
PRICE ONE CENT
kUTONS FLEE
BEFORE SLAVS
IN BUKOWINA
Ltrograd Military Experts
Relieve uzernuwiu Al
ready Held Dy JKUHBiuiib
PRISONERS NOW 200,000
FfWs Forces Reported Pound-
ljlMi. a tt01,j TUniira
mt German jjinua i ..
Dealt to Gen. Von Bothmer
!
I ' PETROGRAD, Juno 16.
k jha capture of 100 more Austro-Ger-
I
. a nnn mm liv the Rua
mnouicers uim ., "-"-- ,,
SL nrmy under General Brualloff was
jounced today byjhe War Office.
1 Petroerad dispatches today report at
tacks by the Russlnns against the linc3
,orth of Pinsk hold by Field Marshal
?vm Hindcnburg's forces. According to
ithttft dispatches tho German positions
fiotre'being pounded night and day by
( tte Russian guns." On its face, .the
S .u iAnntn hnfc the Russian
offensive is rapidly spreading to tho
'.Mrt and that General Kuropatkin's
Ibfantry is about to bo launched in n
S&esh powerful drive.
It is likely, however, that tno kus
ifan staff has no Intention to attack
a. n.on nrmips of von Hindenburtr
jilBB UClli .... ----- .
-i"' mt T..MH:nM n-tlllnrv nntirmn
. BOW. ine uwu .... j
I igalnst the German lines north of the
JsPripet aro probably causea Dy me
?, necessity of keeping tho Germans busy
' By holding a menace over them so as to
Prevent them from shifting their
forces to the south to help tho Aus
trians in Volhynia, Galicia and Buko
wina, without weakening tho western
front It is highly improbable that tho
Russians, even with an immense su-
I periority of forces, will run the risk of
f keeping up a new offensive while they
I deal with the Austrians and tho Turks.
The fall ol uzernowiiz ana tno na
mnro nt the Russians nast tho Pruth
I River leaves theAustrian right wing
ih a dangerous position, although it has.
already evacuated ,C?;ernowitz and part
I of the; flukowina crownland. Its re
treat across the Carpathians is ex
irernety difficult, and on the other hand,
seems utterly unable to make a new
fend west of Czernowitz and at the
wartime avoid the danger of being
faff by a Russian advance through
0& Galley of the Czermocz River, a
fetolary of the Pruth.
tZERNOWITZ REPORTED HELD X
I BY RUSSIA'S LEFT WING
PETROGRAD, June 16.
llfnMlffh nrt Afflnlol nnnjinnAam Ant 1aa
,'Men made of the capture ot Czernowitz,
u fpnai or uukowlna, by the Russian
fortes! military experts In Petrograd be
lieve Jhat the elty Is already held by the
, Cat's troops.
The; southernmost Russian army, which
, Wtssed Into Bukowlna from Bessarabia,
SM beaten back the Austro-Hungarlans all
'Monj the Pruth and Dniester. Rivers, and
' Wn If Czernowitz has not fallen, the Rus
fns have achieved a victory of the first
Jink,
;-, TH fighting In Bukowlna has been
starked. as iAwiierA k .,. ........win,,..
ijt PWlber Of nphnn.K aryA .!,. ,.., .....
1 W) Ptured y the troops of General
Demoralized by the heavy artillery fire
- VL ml. lllla.lnn. J .... .-.... ..
Is 4t.CT """" ra me apparently in-
P"" weel of General Bruslloft's men,
ti2l AJtro.IlnngartanB fled In disorder or
nve themselves up as prisoners.
mSXS, , "USSIan birenslve opened nearly
1 S?i Pfl'onere have been taken and In
4vfc a,monS these are many officers of
Th t)ii..i ....
.. Bro now attacking on a
' L?l '?2 mlIes- stron Positions pre--rM
"y " soldiers of Field Marshal von
CooHaucd on rie roar, Column Two
THE WEATHER
i "erhaDfl vnn h... i,.. .u.l ...- .i.
f rft wUar "ttons and the scarcity
fttyjr., .?. th. war In.Europe.
(iirt i. . .. "'"' iinjiwes me con-
I fay twS?!!naLb.Ie for u was Earned to
- ai . the blB Powder quarrel Is also
1 -fcutmmT llT Brouchy, asthmatic, and
M midst. nowvvery much
II .!? . Proved without resorting to
f S,S S c?ur88 everybody knows that
Lyanthles. of shells fired toward th.vrin,,,
uZE!JV ..'??' .?
Ua n7. J . w'uuuo vrvej irier man
h ordinary trol ey. Those floatlnn- ov.r
-ftrt lv,..T'M .,a week P'ay'ne-dates at
t w.??.1"1?10!11' Dead Mn' H'U and oth-
M.iZr.. P,aces near Verdun.
ftarorally they received no end nf hni.
I Srr Wwder whlch wera rP4 y antl
I:urfft Buns. This filled thBm f,,ii f
WburWeil,ncrased as they t00k the
Hum across the ocean. w h. n. ......
fwached th8 j.rs .- ' "'"'""'
vSk .Jv'arthr Bna Ba tfcey started to
S;,11 hav been leaving 'their tears
lth! Vl.r.coJ!.t!?U0 tq T aa W a the
i wus list? Thin u a . "u.t ..
: botelkeepet ItaatoiT"
p FOBECAST
wwt toaw and orooahz,, n,o.
t j.. iiv; f wvr
iUoS
HBSTBS z- . .... wie.inaL i.
sfeSSiS'iiSi' hol1 B' w"w-
the Arffcn.
Kbruary 21.
iretented notify
iJl te$3$ .L yroa, WlniiU AU..
ATfc:1!. wblU'SBlt. umTpirni....
-?BO'&&SbM!gri8g? Mk,d-
ROOSEVELT WILL NOT BE CANDIDATE,
STATEMENT IN NEW YORK INDICATES
NEW YORK, June IG-Coloncl Theodore Roosevelt Issued a statement
this nftcrrtoon nt tho Hotel Langdon nftcr ho returned from a visit to a
doctor which Indicated that he would rcfuso to run for President on tho
Progressive ticket. It was the Colonel's first statement since the Republican
convention. Asked about the "hyphen plank" In tho Democratic platform,
ho replied:
"I am now In private life' I have not much to say, but I want tho
public to know that this docs not indicate that I have gono back on a
single thing I have said In the past. I mean everything I have saldi But
I wish to reiterate that I'm now In private life and do not caro to discuss
the Democratic' platform."
UNION LEAGUE STARTS CAMPAIGN
IllllHwRflsVaaflHHIHKHMMnii'sllllllllH
P Bga!Suil'll.ll'l. W,l,A....,'.r,,;VVnM 1 I "MiMBslM
The first Hughe"s and' Fairbanks sign in Philadelphia was placed in
operation over the doorway ol the strongnoia or iiepuoiicanism in tnis
city last night when the names of the Repuhjican candidates for PresU
dcnV and- Vice Tresidenfcwero gashed over ,Woad-ptreet frqta th fi'onf
v " . of the' Union League. l h
7 U S
SUFFRAGE FIGHT
TO GET TO FLOOR
OF CONVENTION
Advocates Dissatisfied With
Mere Recommendation for
State Actidn
AMENDMENT PLAN FAILS
Woman Suffrage
Plank of Democrats
Here is the text of, the plank for
votes for women agreed to today by
the Democratic Resolutions Com
mittee: We recommend tho extension or
franchise to the women of this
country by the Stutes upon the name
terms as to men.
By -PERRY ARNQLT) .
ST, LOUIS, June 16. Tho complete har
mony program for the Defnocratio National
Convention was "busted1' wide open today.
Harmony reached Its climar near mid
night, when President -Wilson and -Vice
rPresident Marshall were renominated b
acclamation, , -
At 7 o'clock, when the Resolutions Com
mittee was putting the finishing touches
on Its report after 22 hours' continuous
Besslon, It was apparent that at least one
fight of that long grind would be carried
to the floor of the conventlpn-
This was In relation to woman suffrage.
The committee fought out the equal ballot
pledge for hours. It defeated 30 to I.,
a plank for affreight declaration In favor
of a Federal'constitutlonal amendment to
give the vote to women- It adopted, by a,
vote of 25 to 20. tho following amendment!
We recommend the extension of the
franchlio to the, women ot tua country
by the Btatei. upon the am trm as
to mon.
This substitute was -unsatisfactory to the
suffrage workers. It was regarded by them
as a mere subterfuge-a. "passing of the
buck" to the States on the matter when
was lust a lot of words meaning- wWy
m particular The workers for a. .iraJrM
oit BUffrage Indorsement were tpdlgnant
and openly voiced their declar.tlm of
oKer!nT"rom the floor eubtlt"e whlcl
would commit the party to open and com
plete lnment f a Constl Mittonl amend
roent for extension of the ballot-A
Old tlmerain en.." j. t" .T"
tual ly n iaee with the split In the Win
on Committer and the threatened airing of
tlon Lonrai'w iim flnnr-. Thev
be
differences on '.be convention floor.
SeVdTSmoiratlo convention wouldn't b
,w nr a near roMBa tno "'I""..?""
hk been entlry'TW tame, 'ins P"
LkdJtoS frontottOB had been prepared by
President Wt'wn and H was assumed that
ThJ f Resolutions Committee would have
?o dJ XmiFb "vawhaB P with choice
anfuaga and nail on m Weatherboard
Ins to make It waterproof.
Jiut the, carpenter had different Ideas as
to the wrtf pUnklng to. be. used, ml the
towwMon; a? Pemocraey wIU have at
SSlVwtil ftht on It hands on the
convention floor.
McCORMICK'S
SELECTION TO BE
RATIFIED TODAY
Silent Opposition to Penn
sylvanian Will Fail,
Leaders Assert "
OLD GUARD CONSPIRING
By EDMUND C. TAYLOR
Evening Lt&otr Btaff Correspondent
ST. LOUIS, June 16. The selection of
Vance C. McCormlclc, of Harrlsburg.' ns
chairman of the Democratic National Com
mittee will be ratified by the National Com
mittee when that body meets this after
noon, despite the efforts that are being
made to organize opposition to him.
Tammany, the Cook County delegation
and other members of the Old Guard have
endeavored to organize opposition to Sic
Cormlck within the National Committee, and
today claimed, SO of the 4S votes that would
be cast for national chairman.
The Administration leaders, however,
claim that no more than two votes will be
cast against the selection ot the Fennsyl
vanlan, They argue that snce the Pres
ident controlled the convention so absolutely,
going so far as to narrio all of the com
mittees,' he will have little trouble lining
up the National Committer foi MoCormlck,
despite the efforts of tht opposition.
The Old Guard of Pennsylvania and the
recalcitrant members of the New Jersey
.delegation, under the leadership of James
A Nugent, of Newark, have placed the
fight against, the selection of McCormlck
Into the hands of Edward It Young, of
Youngstown. O., National Committeeman
from Ohio. Young will lead whatever op
position develop , against the selection ot
McCormlck at today- meeting.
"Who la McCoimlclit" Is the slogan of
the opponents of the President,
They are passing word around that Mc
Cormlck at one time vqted for William Mo
Klnley for President, that he at mo time
owned a newspaper that had a nonunion
shop and that he Is too friendly with the
Progressives.
This last (act Is accepted by the Admin
istration followers as the President's prin
cipal reason tor selecting the Pennsyl.
vanlan. The President, according to his
followers. Is trying to corral all of the
Progressive vote he can. and they llgurc
that by naming a man tor nations1 chair,
mar who at one time had the Indorsenieiu
of the Progressives pf his own State, when
ha was a candidate tor Governor, he will
be In a position to get the most benefit
from Roosevelt1" declination of the third
party nomlnatlor-
Th opposition to- the selection of McCpr
mlck Is widespread among, the delegates.
They privately express the. opinion that the
President hae made a mistake In not pick
ing out a more practical politician for the
lob, but all of their talk is under the Bur
face and none of them will permit his name
to be used In connection with the opposition
to Alison's choice,
."' u " t
Slipa on, Banana Peel; Leg Broken
While descending- the steps atrthe 6Bth
street terminal last nighjt, airs. John Moore,
of 15' Hudson street, Camden, slipped on a
banana, peel and was thrown so heavily
that her right leg was broken. She waa
taken to the Presbyterian Hospital.
REAL BATTLE
OF DEMOCRATS
COMES TODAY
-
Suffrage Plank to Start "All
Kinds of Time" in
Convention
SPLIT IN COMMITTEE
Wilson's Draft of Platform
Changed Row Over Atti
tude Toward Mexico
ST. LOUIS, Juno 16.-11:29 a. m.
(12:29 p. m. Philadelphia Um0 Con
vention called to order.
12:30 p. m. Senator Stone recog
nized to submit report of Committee
on Resolutions.
1:22 Reading of platform cbncluded.
1:21 Stone moves adoption of plat
form. 1:25 Stone moves previous question
to shut off debate.
COLISEUM. St, Louis, Juno 16. Tho
Democratic National Convention, having
renominated at tho Thursday night session
Woodrow Wilson for President and Thomas
It. Marshall for Vlco President, today began
the real light In the adoption of n. platform
upon which to stand tho candldntes, ench
of whom wns renominated by acclamation
Wilson at 11:64 and Marshall nt 11:G8.
Today's struggle on tho floor of the con
vention will bo chiefly over tho votes for
women ulatform nlank : and nil kinds of si
hot time Is foreshadowed by tho bitter and
prolonged discussion of this plank before
the divided Resolutions Committee Indorsed
woman suffrage, with the lecommcndatton
that tho States should be left to grant or
refuso tho franchise.
ALL-NIGHT STHUGGLE.
Tho Democratic platform wns born Just
ns red dawn streaked through the windows
of tho high council room whero through
the long night tho Ilenolutlons Commltu-o
had wrestled and struggled In tho agony
of its making. The completed document
came out of a night of dlsmrislon and strug
gle In which Democrat wrestled with Dem
ocrat over tho detailed statement of po
litical faith.
The foreign relations of tno country, tho
duties of alien citizens, the policy towaid
Mvl,-rnll wera nut through tho mill of
partisan discussion and nil provoked turmoil.
and strife. ull mo irnnBcenuum. mam,
which split tho party counselors and about
which earnest and sometimes virulent de
bate centred was tho question of woman
suffrage. Seldom have party counc(ls faced
an Issue that provoked -i-uch bitter argu
ment, and when the committee by a narrow
margin had reached a decision, tho par
tisans for and' against suffrage were de
termined to fight out their differences on
the floor of the o'pen convention.
"SUGGESTIONS" BY WILSON.
Throughout the night of strife and tur
moil the tentativo platform "suggestions
sent to the party leaders by President Wil
son wera torn to tatters patched together,
ripped apart again and finally reassembled.
As each process waa accomplished the rep
resentatives ot the President communicated
Continued on Pate Tiro. Colnmn One
SEVEN PERSONS HURT
IN AUTO ACCIDENTS
Three Injured When Machines
Turn Turtle Others Hit
by Motors
Two automobiles turned lurtl on'subjrb
an roads with tho result that three persons,
who were occupants of tna somersaulting
cars were taken to hospitals with cuts
and general Injuries, while both cars were
wrecked. , ,.
John Lewis, of New York. Ii It. the Mc
Klnley Hospital Trenton, with more than
20 cut? on his fnoe h.-l and hody He Is
also hurt Intert-U;. He .- James Pryor,
chaurteUr fo Wtnfc-iT. Kunter of p.w
were thrown out MT -iAimer'. car lost nlglH
between PrlnoW, Wit Lawrewevllle wher
the machlnei afWr r. tire btow-oul careened
Into a ditch a tn roadside and overturned.
Pryor wb out AJwut the forehead atitf
suffered bruises K clung to his seat whet.
the car turned over, vrhlle I.e.wls wm caug!U
under tha machine. The car which Prycw
was bringing from New York to Devon
looked as though "It had gone over a
precipice," said Hunter today Tryor was
'arraigned before Mayor Brown at Princeton
after his Injurtei had been dressed, but was
exonerated. tU testimony Bhowtng- he had
done his best to save the machine atter
the blow-out '
Fred 'Carpenter, a negro lad of 7. was
playing in front of his house, at 1337 Melon
street, this afternoon, and ran right Into nn
automobile driven by a Mr. Lear, of Chal.
font, Pa, Policeman Moore, of the 10th
and Buttonwood streets Btation, was nearby
and he picned the boy up. bundled him Into
the automobile and asked Lear to drive to
St, Joseph's Hospital. At Glrard avenue
and Broad street they collided with an
autotruck, driven for the contracting firm
of McClellan Brothers by Charles Crow,
of 1714 Christian street. Policeman Moore
was thrown out and his leg broken. Then
he and the boy were placed in another auto
mobile and the trip was completed to the
hospital. Lear's automobile was wrecked
William Fltipatrlck Is In the Taylor Hos
pltal In BIdley Park, dangerously hurt,
while being driven home from Newark, Del.
to New York, yesterday, His father, mother
and two Blstert were with him. foi.,they had
Just witnessed the graduation exercises, to
which he war a party, at the State College.
A collie dog ran In front of the macnlne,
which the father was driving, at the Ches
ter pike and Bristol avenue in Ridley Park,
The car hit the doe, then skidded and
turned over, slightly injuring every one
and hurting the boy badly.
The Pitxpatrlcks live at 112 East 66th
street,' New York. The father, Lawrence
Fttzpatrlck. Is a noted polo player.
Two Philadelphia boys were slightly in
ured yesterday. Joseph Rhelner, 8 years,
old, of 138 Hops street, was struck at
Thompson and Front streets by an automo
bile driven by George T. Gravenstlne. of
Allegheny avenue near Utb street Graven'.
etlna waa arrested and released to appear
when wanted. Joseph Malktel. II years
old, ot 810 Reed street, was run down at
Market and 11th streets. A driver, Joseph
TIU. of 2667 North Cedar street, was held liv
100 ball. The boy Is In Jefferson Hospital
QUICK JSTEWS
OTTAWA RACING RESULTS
1'irst race, pmso $500, 3-ycni-oltls niul up, selling, in'lcMoni
a,, 101, Brown, $18, ?8.10 nnd $1.40, won; Oni-tley. 110, Ilinlugton,
92.70 nnd $2.60 second; Harry Bnesctt II 107, Dyrnc, $11.50, thiul.
Time, 1.42 1-5.
JAMAICA RACING RESULTS
First race, 2-year-olds, selling: with $500 mtded, 5 fui longs
N6ns Such, 110, Ball, 7 to 10, t to 44 nnd out, won: lMposti, 11 V,
Dyer, 13 to 5, 7 to 10 nnd out, second: KoonllgHtcr 10&, Lyitc, f lo 1(
0 to C nud out third. Time, 1:02. Scudnl nlso tnu
$157,000,000 ARMY BILL FAVORABLY REPORTED TO HOUSE
WASIinVOTOX, Juno 16,Tlio ntmy appropriation bill, cnrrylnc; $157,000,000,
wns favotubly reported to tho Houso today by Chairman liny, of tho Military Affairs
Commltteo It includes $600,000 for summer training enmps. Representative Hay
will onileavor to havo it taken up in tho House Tuesday.
SONN1NO TO REMAIN IN NEW ITALIAN CABINET
ROME, Juno 16. Sidney Sonnlno, Minister of Foreign Affairs In tho Salandrn
Cabinet, has agreed to remain In that position In tho ministry now being formed
by Paolo Bossolll. Tho governmental crisis brought about tho resignation ot
Salundra, following tho voto of lack of confidence- by tho Chamber of Deputies Is
now considered over.
BRITAIN BUYS $2,250,000 WORTH OF SHELLS HERE
NKW YORK, June 16. It was learned hero today that tho British Government
lias Just closed a contract with tho Pressed Steel Car Company for 100.000 shell
forglngs for 9.2-lnch guns. The contract prlco Is held to bo about $2,250,000.
CREW SINKS GERMAN SHIP AFTER HEROIC DEFENSE
BERLIN, Juno 16. Tho acrmnn nuxlllary steamship Herrmann was attacked
by four Russian destroyors In Norrkocplng Bay Wednesday, It was announced today,
nnd after making heroic resistance caught fire. Tho crow sank the Herrmann. Tho
commander and a largo part of the crew are reported safe.
APPEAL TO AMERICA URGED BY GREEK LEADERS
ATHENS, Juno 16. In a debate in the Chamber of Deputies on tho measures,
taken by, tho Allies In restraint of Greek navigation, Minister of the interior Gounarls
nppcifte'd for the support of tho House In the effort the Government Is making to
obtain food relief, Dragoumis and other speakers suggested that representations
be made to tho Entente Powers and also to neutral States, Including America. ' Tho
Greek budget estimates show a deficit of $53,000,000. Premier Skouloudia said tho
ation, if united, would bo able to withstand the Allies' pressure.
WOMEN LAY PLANS FOR $500,000 ORCHESTRA FUND
Tho Woman's Committor of the Philadelphia Orphestra Association has adopted
some new methods of' raising money toward tho $500,000 endowment fund, n cam
paign for which is under vay. Each member of ''the commltteo will bo expected
to got (wo new guarantors; i Junior organization of children will bo formed; musla
clubs conservatories and private schools will be solicited. Headquarters will be at
917 Pine street, the homo of Mrs. J. Sellers Bancroft.
1
BASS FISHING HINDERED BY COLD WEATHER
Cold weather has seriously retarded bass fishing. The opening of tho season
in Pennsylvania and New Jersey yesterday was seized as a first opportunity to flsh
by thousands, but most of them came home with only small catches. The bass
season In tho two States begins June 15 and runs until November 30. N. R. Buller,
Pennsylvania State Fish Commissioner, says there are good prospects for a lively
seuson as soon as the weather becomes warmer.
THREE GERMAN SHIPS SUNK IN BALTIC FIGHT
PETROGRAD, June 16. An official statement Issued here last night says: "In
the Baltic, on tho night of May 31-June 1, our torpedoboats attacked a convoy of
enemy steamships sailing under escort. During tho engagement wilt, tho escort we.
sank two steamships of a Btnall torpedo typo and one auxlltury cruiser, whose crew
wo captured. There was no loss or damage to our side. Wo retrained from pursuing
tho enemy steamships because, during the engagement, thoy toon a course into
Swedish territorial waters." (The Baltic engagement retened to eUdcntly Is tho
one. which took place on Tuesday night southeast ot SteCVU.otm. Tno date Is fixed
In the Petrograd statement according to tho Russinu cnlonaur.)
LONDON CHAMBER OUSTS MEN OF ENEMY BIRTH
LONDON, Jimo 16. Tho Chamber of Commerce has passed a resolution request
ing all membeis of German or Austrian birth, even If naturalized subjects of Great
Britain, to resign. '
GERMANS THREW 1,000,000 SHELLS AT VAUX
PARIS, June 16. A million heavy shells were expended by the Germans In the
bombardment of Fort Vaux from tlio beginning of March to cat ly June, says a seml
ofn:hl statement. (Assuming that the heavy shells to wh'ch reference Is made rep
reM.i:ia each the discharge of a 14-Inch gun, the cost ot this bombardmont In
alcohol alone approximates $35,000,000, For In every dlsct.arge of a gun ot thai
Rlze 50 gallons of alcohol are consumed. If this country's entire output ot distilled
sprrltf fo the fiscal year ended Juno 30 last were reduced to 94 per cent, alcohol the
resia would total 74,817,076 gallons, enough to fire guns of the size named 1,493,341
tltr.es. i
DUTCH SOCIALIST ASKS STATE FOOD CONTROL
THE HAGUE, June 16 Tho Socialist Deputy Schaper. In tho Chamber of
Deputies yesterday, Interpellated the government on the high cost of living. He de
manded extensive food, control measures to prevent speculators cairylng out swin
dling practices and to enable workers to buy foodstuffs at reasonable prices. The
Premier, Herr van der Linden, in reply detailed the various measures already taken
to prevent the exportation of home-grown foodstuffs, on which fie said the embargo
would continue until the quantity required for consumption at home was provided for,
RUSSIANS INVENT NEW AND DEADLY SHELL
LONDON, June 16. A despatch to the Morning Post says: "The Russian artillery
has been magnificent throughout this war, but on the present occasion has exceeded
its own highest records. The effect upon the enemy has been terrifying, and a
general panic usually has ensued, for the Russians have invented a new shell and
have used It In Incredible quantities. Its deadly results are seen In tha official
bulletins. Nothing can be said, of course, about the nature of the new Bhells. The
universities of Russia have been busily employed for 12 months vlelng with one
another In a search for some superlative form of effective shell."
-
GERMAN BATTERIES SHELL ALLIES ON BALKAN FRONT
SALONICA. June 16. The Germans continued their bombardment of the Allies1
position between Lake Arzan and Klllndlr, it was officially announced today. The
artillery violently shelled the position, 20Q projectiles of largo calibre being fired at
one point.
TURKS HALT NEW BRITISH DRIVE ON TIGRIS
CONSTANTINOPLE, Juno 16. The repulse of an attempt to advance by the
British force that remained on 4he Tigris below KUt-el-Amara atter tho surrender of
General Townshend la announced by the War Office. Tho engagement occurred on
tha right bank ot the river," near Felahte. On the. southern Irak front. In the
R-iiTrntea sector, the destruction of a British force 400 strong by Turkish volunteers
la reported. The official statement adds; "Persian volunteers have been attacking
tho Russian forces since the recent Russian defeats. Inflicting heavy losses upon the
'nemy."
COL. ROOSEVELT'S
CONDITION WORSE;
TAKEN TO DOCTOR
Thorough Examination Is
Made by Physician Fol
lowing a Bad Night
COUGH . IMPAIRS SPEECH
Colonel Looked 111 as He Leaves
Hotel in Automobile
NEW YORK, Juno 16. The condition ot
Colonel Roosovelt wns considerably worse
today. Ho had a bad night Inst night,
coughing a great deal, and this morning
could hardly speak above a whisper.
The Colonel spent the night at the Hotel
Langdon, whero ,lio has been slnco ho was
taken 111 Bevcral days ago. Tho first thing
this morning Mrs. Roosovelt notified the
hotel authorities that tho Colonel was too
111 to seo any one nnd that no one was
to bo allowed to go to his apartment.
Then Bho called Dr. Hubert V. Guile.
Ho renched tho hotel In 30 minutes an
went to tho Colonel's room. Shortly after
ward he camo down with the Colonel and
Mrs. Roosevelt. The patient walked be
tween tho two nnd looked thoroughly 111.
"Boys, I have nothing to say," he said
to tho waiting newspaper men as he Baw
them near the elevator.
"How do you feel 7" some one asked hlra.
The Colonel nTorely waved his hand.
At the door of the hotel tho doctor's auto-
;nobllo was waiting. The threo got lnto,th
car. As the Colonel sat down ho pressed
his hand to his left side as If In pain, and
kept it there while they drove away. They
went to Doctor Guile's office, whero a thor
ough examination was made.
Whon the Colonel returned to the Lang
don ho went Immediately to his apart
ments, and all his engagements for-he.day
were canceled. Colonel Roosovelt walked
very slowly, his face was drawn pnd he
frequently pressed his hand against his left
side, as though he was suffering from keen
pain.
' As the Colonel was ab6ut to enter tho
hotel Patrolman Michael J, Cunningham,
who knows him well, approached and ex
claimed i "How1 aro you feeling. Colonel?"
The ea-PrcsiJent, stopped' and replied:
"It Is not easy tosknock me ou$ or kill
me. I feel a little 'bad, but will be all right
In a few .days."
On Wednesday Colonel Roosevelt became
111 and suffered a severe coughing spell.
At that time he made light ot the attack,
explaining that he probably had produced
a strain, through the coughing, of tha
muscles about the ribs broken last year In
a fall from his horse.
J. F.M0RRIS0N DEAD;
CIVIL WAR VETERAN
AND HEAD TAX CLERK
City Employe Had Brillant Rec
ord as Soldier and Served in
Office With Changing
Administrations
HAD BEEN ILL A YEAR
Pboto by Outekvnst.
JAMES F, MORRISON
James Fisher Morrison, chief clerk In
the office ot the Receiver of Taxes and past
commander ot the Department ot Pennsyl
vania, Grand Army ot the Republic, died
early today at h& home, 810 South 3d street.
He had been 111 for nearly a yes and had
been confined to his bed for two months.
Death resulted frpm a complication ot dis
ease Incident to age, Captain MorrUpn
was in his, 76th year.
Captain Morrison was a native of the; old
Southwark district, having been born lri
what Is now the 3d Ward, October 8. 140.
lie always resided within the boundaries;
of that bailiwick ajjd early in llf Jjeeam
active In its political affairs, Hs was a Re.
' "Cuutluuf d nn i"w Two. Cyia Tno
N
.fiu,.Tr""r
V lUUlfllJ Aim ... 1r . . - .
- , , , . , , , , ., . . . mm .-. ...
f, r : - . u i?t.pw Riirrmitflift. a smi. tn TTnHpr thfi Moons ot Mars" Begins m lomorrows jwemm jeonjr
ac jrtjos oi iviars i?y ahb. -" - - - t
