WEATHER FORECAST
Local thunder showers tonight and
Saturday.
OCAiA, FLORIDA, FRIDAY, JUNE J 6, 1916
VOL. 22, SO. 146
. II. IBII f SIIIPIB ' .. S -M , . JlilKlll
u u y La U UtiVy U UUUU UU U V
Are the Nominees and the Platform of the
Democratic Party
LIST OF HEW EIITERPBISES FlfllSHED TO HIS-
TRIAL AGEtlT OF SEABOARD Alfl LIKE
HUB WL MADE AliO THE PUTF0SF.1 ADOPTED V1TH A HUE Iffl BEFORE
EQUALED III A IIAIIOIIAl COIIVElin .
GENERAL STRIKF
W FOLLOW
(.Associated Press)
St. Louis, June 16, 8 a. m. Wilson i
and Marshall were nominated by ac
clamation by the Democratic Na-!
tional Convention last night.
BRYAN WAS IN LINE
St. Louis, June 16. Shortly after
the National convention reconvened
. last night at 9:15 with the avowed in
tention of remaining in session until
Wilson and Marshall were nominated,
- Senator Thompson of Kansas mov
ed the suspension of the rules to al
low Bryan to speak. Senator James
introduced Bryan as "America's
, greatest Democrat," and ' the galler
les howled their approval. Bryan
began by declaring that every Dem
ocratic convention was a love feast.
He said, "We prepare the plans for
'S HEW ENTERPRISE
SECURES A VALUABLE IN
DR. HENRY G. BYSTRA OF BROOKSVILLE WILL BE THE
- SULTING CHEMIST FOR THE FLORIDA SOFT PHOS
PHATE & LIME COMPANY
CON-
The Florida Soft Phosphate and
Ocala's progress during the recent
twelve months has been notable. The
public utilities have been greatly in
creased, and a number of-large en
terprises have got under way. A list
of these will be sent by L. R. Tram
mel!, secretary of the board of trade,
to li. Lu Hammer, general industrial
agent of the Seaboard Air Line, who
has asked for facts concerning this
city to be used in a page advertise
ment in one of the leading magazines.
Following the list of some of the
things recently started in Ocala:
A $100,000 sewera ere svstem. with
V ' '
Imhoff tanks of the very latest de-
Picn. : ....
A , $100,000 lieht and water nlant
that will, be one of the most com- ployees on the question of authoriz
plete in the South and one of. the ing union officials to call a strike will
,nuil unique in tne country. probably be sent from headquarters
x-ians are Deing prepared for a mu- by union officials tomorrow. Imme-
r.icipal park. ' , diately on the termination of the con-
umon station is building. . ierence with managers yesterday, of-
iiie gas piant, recently purchased ncials begah to formulate the ques-
by a iew Jersey company is being tion. If the men vote to strife an
leDuut, and the mains extended other conference may be sought.
luxuuLTiiuuc rne citv. I
r v waa
Piled Up Their Corpses on the
Asiego Plateau
STEAM ROLLER COffflfiUES BOLLIIJG FflEIICH MET
TEUTON ATTACK WITH DESTRUCTIVE FlfiE
Rejection by Officials of the Reason
able Demands of the Railroad
; Workers
(Associated Press)
New York, June 16. Ballots for a
vote by four unions of railway em-
(Associated Press)
L-onaon, June 16. A violent at
tack on. Italian nositions on th
Asiego plateau was made yesterday
by Austro-Hungarians, says the Rome
war office. It is estimated that 18,-
000 troops attacked in dense . forma-.
tion. The attack was renulsed. The
leutons left piles of corpses before
the Italian trenches.
RUSSIAN DRIVE UNCHECKED
London, June 16. Russian success
es along the southern portion of the
eastern front continu,e says the Rus
sian official statement. An additional
C01TIIIC VOTES 10
LIBRARY CONTEST
Ocala High School Over Three Thou.
sand Votes Ahead of Its Near
, est Opponent
STATES
fir , . .
uaian sun rage is endorsed as a
the future and submit our claims for I principle, but the adoption of rejec
confidence to the people. . Whatever tion is left to the states.
.1 1 . ' !-X - 1 " ..
uuieientcs may nave exisieu were AN ANCIENT GAG
temporary ana we Degm
' It: . . . I "
as a principle of the democratic " .. pietion. I iew lork, June 16. More than
party. " 7 A V 0!s"me miles nortn A large knitting mill is in opera- 4 00,000 union and non-union railroad handred . officers and 14,000 men have contest. If you don't believe they are,
SUFFRAGE LEFT TO TIIfJ ?' f ms to tion. workers of America will vote within a L'ten captured; the report asserts.
xwxcui.auc ..acuity 01 araw- The Flor da Peat. PrnrW r month on the advisnnilit, nf oii;
ing to its staff efficient men to aid in italized at $100,000 witr general of- general strike . to enforce their de-
r:- " , e great worK oi aistn- fices in Oeala, has erected a $75,000 mans for an eight-hour day and time
uutiiig jrnosume over tne south and nlant at. MrW in a w and a lialf fnr i H ,.i4.
we pu.up vo me aavant- the manufacture of ammoniated peat. the failure yesterday by the repre
flCPH rvt licmi thin 3 i I . . : .. F I ... .. . .
I KENCH MET ATTACKS WITn A
DEADLY FIRE
Paris, June 16. Powerful German
attacks on the French southeast of
Everybody is voting in the library
just look at the standing of the dif
ferent organizations who are working
to win the magnificent library which
is on display at E. T. Helvenston's
store.
the 1916
fight a united Dartv in everv state. Ane re-establishment of a
You may take every adminstration chant marine is recommended.
There have been manv chancre in
ages oi using this natural product I The Florida Soft Phosphate & Lime sentatives . of the railroads and the Thiaumont farm, on the Verdun front. the standing from last week. All the
of soft phosphate and lime, a f er-fCo
mer" tilizing material that is
a
broke down under French: machine contestants except a few at the bot-
in the history of the United States
and you will find none more responsi
ROOTS FOR GOOD ROADS
y xi i t. .
Lie for as manv laws of mat. imn7- w"8C1VttWOU UA lue coumry s nat
x xi :...x , . . . .. .. ural resources
3) gvuu - luaus
p'roved conditions for the
are recommended.
. WINDING UP THE WORK
Coliseum, St. Louis, June 16, Noon,
-The Democratic National Conven
blazed, flags were paraded to the front j tion of the party platform.
oi the stand, the band played . the add convention
"Star Spangled Banner," and huge
to Wilson
. X T l 1 t . . I man X aL . ' 111 . " m.
i-uiuuiiiuun caoitanzea . at i w iwtu a settlement alter a
seemingly $750,000. with its main mnDa i fW;a two weeks' cemfermno
Ill AT. What fho iAro Vi ,,4.U I - . m . .1
.." i- city, nas begun the operation of a
quire, in place of the high priced large nlant for the marmtw,, f
vuuunerciai lertiiizers so prone to be ''Phoslime."
Miort on tne very cnemicals that they A modern citrus fmit t
crro x ... , . rv.6 .xvv
farmers , touw!" ana mat was opened last fall.
T T T - 1WUU8.-: lue a new company has begun the
neea oi a Consulting Chemist, one handling of the staple farm products Boys in Khaki Only too Willing to ed. The Germans made a number of value of the books to any organiza
-. 3 nut umy a tnorougn cnem- of the countv. ar-nntino- QO ite d
let mi n r-il 3 1 1 . j . i .
vxw ouu cApwanu aDie to aa- "Feed Florida Feed First."
tne iarmers. truck
and im-
tance as the present administration."
IMMENSE ENTHUSIASM
Nominations for president began at
10:14. Alabama yielded to New Jer-
Rev and Westrntt. TiAminntvl Wilann.
Mr. Wescott finished his speech at tion at ll:2fi -tw m. WQ h. mtp two new clubs, having at heart
lA.iA j .i. . x , . 1 . : o - 6xuvvcxa x wie state
xv.-., a wic tunveuuuu.urvw tutu iast session, rne only remaining of their soil s-n
t,.-v.. uvu.ui.uvu x xooxx uftuw wuxn. ui uie convention is tne anon-1 .Mm0,r tc j . -- ,
j x xi.-L. - . x- M-aujr w uuw uruauenmg out ana
putting on a large force of traveling
salesmen with a great advertisint?
A1IA K lirSI H I If. H K.SJ 1 pamn-aiom 4-y, l Jx ,
flon. rrni , uwuwi, ana most ex
BIFLEMEH ABE READY
gun and infantry fire, says the war
office. 'The assaults' beer an at six
o'clock last night on the right bank
i of the Meuse, from hill 321 to" : hill
20. Simultaneously another attack
was launched at the southern edge of
the Caillette wood. All were renuls-
Go to the Mexican
Border
as to the needs the interest of the city, have been
formed.
I wo branches of the Dixie High- Patched to the Mexican border. Cap-
way have been routed through the tain Edward Drake said today that
n 7 oi AlabTh: tribute to Hughes in 1912 declaring th format position.
Dixie", Old Black Joe" tTr courtJUStlce:e&- it wTJT t-
J wnn a.- tenng politics. . , it had had the entire country to
T? CkaA : rt T:.,: jj j n. . Itensive tVot Vioo mm, - x i
was unfurled from the roof of the auuieS3eu ane yuu uy
hall, and delegates began to parade !"!!:the I'0 l1
bearlni, their state stnrhn Tlnrin-r "io 1MUluwuua committee. m '-v , mux ucany every
iha aZ Mx. , . " tacked Justice Hughes, the republi- Paner Florida and. Georgia, the
fnrtv fio ' To,oa 'i xvQ can nominee, quotmg a statement at-- company looked about for the best
forty-five minutes, James yielded the L,;.,. . 1 ,. , . ro i tT, - ....x...
chair to Heflin
bands played
nn: tit j t
zs; pzge broken by the cn.t. ha-
Senator' Rtn0 -xl Henry G. Bystra, the chemist of
BrooksviHe and Holder, one of the
rr, f ua x Dzr A tered the Colisenm ot io.li- m0u " -wwn hi uie ooutn, witn not
n tt oi..- xi.. that the.TTnit PMOO ;, J011 a local reputation but one that
flrct co w;, ,Jnlede not to rpln thn J nas gone abroad throughout the land
..x Dv. TVUBVU a xr tO Ell rone for l,oo ixu
nm;nnxnJ l 1 x: r J IMrf (WtflH hv ta I. I ' '.v, xa utcil Y1U1
Mar shaiff a al so nominated by ac-ideation until it had been presented to
the aisles, and some suffrage work
ers mounted to the platform and
held a suffrage umbrella over Heflin.
clamation.
AN AMERICAN PLATFORM
the
Buttgenbach Phosphate company for
a quarter of a century and his an
consented to the immpHinto w;.r-'ow aic e" . mrougn tms
r u ,x, country and m all European ports
I the convention. Senator Stone then
St. Louis, June 16. Declarations of
Americanism, thorough preparedness
and for the retention of United States
in Mexico until law and order have
where hundreds of cargoes have gone.
Dr. Bystra is a graduate of one of
tion of the platform.
MINORITY REPORT
Senators WnlcT ami TTaTIIo ,l i,-fi,Q --.x ..n - tt . .
xxwxxxo icau iubiw'v iwciuus. tuilcKcS in xio i lann m
platform. Governor Ferguson of a country where one's education
nave 1 iti- x-j xv x ;-l .
W ,t. ,,i x: j ",v"""' i"""""-" vuc uuiwujrteuuru jjaiucuiar line must De trior oup-h
draft of the platform presented by ' BwSfl. m' efore he s his degree. He has
the o.mo.rQt5, suffrage plank withholding endorse- been a. resident of near Brooksville
..vxwwx. tuulll..v.. . x0 CorlX- C1-A Ai- a. f 1 XI.- J -
to .0ci.,4.:,CT ;xx i.ir " mu.cu iwwe i..uiui.-..uura 01 a century and
...v lwuIunviia vuuuunwc wiuureiw. -J..X.- . fl. JlntA UA U.J it., t . ...
the draft this morning at 8, o'clock r'.'0? opportunities of any
after almost, twer.tv.fonr honr of He. on, uui ur rLAUl. xxx M4C &tate to experiment m a
liberation. Tno Delegate Leo Masnev. of Massa- practical waF th the native soft
CDf,4 f xt, x- 1 chusetts. obierted to ito onfinn 1 P-losPnatef rnosiime."
vvu w HIV VUUVCUUVll UJ Jlluli lllClil I y
cause ne wanted a plank expressing
sympathy for "the people of Ireland."
He was jeered.
Stone.
HAS NO USE FOR THE HYPHEN
The activities of all persons, groups
and organizations in , the United
States which conspire to advance the
interest of any foreign power are
condemned without stint. "It sum
mons all men of whatever origin or
creed who would count themselves
Americans to join in making clear to
all the world the unity and conse
quent power of America."
PREPAREDNESS - IS NECESSARY
: Thorough preparedness on land and
sea for an unexpected invasion and
the joining of the United States with
other nations to "assist the world in
securing settled peace and justice,"
are urged in the preparedness plank.
INTERVENTION CONDEMNED
, Armed intervention in Mexico "is
revolting" to the people of the Unit
ed States, the plank dealing with the
Mexican situation states.
STICKS TO THE MONROE DOC-
-7 TRINE
The Monroe Doctrine is re-asserted
BATTLE IN THE BALTIC
The doctor is not only a chemist-
he is a thorough soil expert and ad
viser, lor thore than a quarter of a
century he has been making exten
sive and thorough experiments in a
practical, every day manner with the
Several of the Kaiser's Ships Sunk !ft PhosPnate on his big farm near
by the Czar's Destroyers Brooksville, where he has a thousand
and Subs acres uner fence and in cultivation
to different crops and fruit trees,
Copenhagen, June 16.-The Ger- using nothing at all in the way of
man cruiser Koenig von Sachasen fertilizers save soft phosphate,
was destroyed and twelve merchant- Year after year he has watched the
men sunk while fighting m the Baltic results and is in a position to know
Sea. It was reported that fourteen to apply, the knowledge obtained in
German ships, convoyed by eight arm- the laboratory with the more prac
ed trawlers, the cruiser Koenig von ileal knowledge obtained in his fields
Sachasen and fcyo destroyers, were and gardens and orchards
attacked by six Russian destroyers There is no phase of the soft phos
and submarines. The Germans fled phate problem as applied to soils that
and it is believed that the twelve he has not thoroughly threshed out
xwMMtx.vu.x. v,x wavier ana aemonstrated on his own lands,
arrived at Nykopejng with 150 Ger- and he is in a position to tell any one
man survivors. : . just what it will and will not do on
., , . , the different crops "and different soUs
When you .want the editorial de- at the several seasons of the year
partment at the Star office call "five- Dr. Bystra is too well known and
one two rings." : . his name stands too high in Uie pro-
' ! 7 fessional and business world for one
Take RexalX liver salts for that
tired, lazy feeling. Gerig's
counter attacks on the French. The
French .yesterday took the southern
slope of Deadman's hill, taking 185
lhere is a strong probability of the prisoners. All counter attacks failed.
National Guard of Florida being dis-
tom of the list are making a deter
mined effort to win the library of one
hundred and two volumes and four
sections of book cases;
If you want to win this library, you
will have to hustle as the contest
closes July 22nd and considering the
work inces-
NO TRUST IN THEIR NEIGHBOR
London, June 16. An Athens dis
patch says it is reported there that
tion, it behooves you to
santly to win.
A number of the members of differ
ent organizations who are participat
ing in this library contest are getting
much help from members of their
order in nearby towns. If any of you
organizations have not as yet tried
city. v ; the Bines are' ready to move when
David S. Welch has extended his tver the order comes. He has 6 heard the Bulgarians are withdrawing the this we would aise you to see your
lumber business and contemplates nothing definite, but says that the majority of their forces from Saloniki friends from towns in the vicinity of
further extentions at once. sudden receipt of orders would not
The Methodist church will be en- surprise him. His attention was call
larged to accommodate a greatly in-ed to a Washington news dispatch to
creased congregation. - the effect that the South Carolina
The Ocala House is under a new J troops might be sent to Mexico be
management and meeting with sue- tore a week is up. Captain Drake
cess, with improvements being made I said that this would not be unexpect-
from time to time. ed.
Several new residences have been The
built and are building. says:
to .the Rumanian frontier.
CITY VAS TOO SLOW
dispatch from Washington
The bank deposits have shown
marked increase.
'For the first time since interna
tional complications with Mexico he-
came acute, there is a strong possi-
Ocala and have the mcome here to do
their shopping, that is, of course,
when they have any great amount to
buy. You can assure them that the
merchants and business firms who
are conducting this contest and who
give votes are the best and they will
be sure to get their money's worth
and the best values to be had.
Messrs. Herbert Lattner, E. C. Ben
nett and Geo. C. Pasteur, the judges,
SHEATS IS SAFE
And Catts
And is Making a Mistake in the Feel-
ing -Displayed in the Union
Depot Agitation
At the meeting of the Board cf counted the votes again this week and
Trade Wednesdav niht there was a uuuwin& 13 ine standing 01 tne var
bility. of the war department calling general discussion of the attitude lous organizations:
on the South : Carolina National shown by a certain part of the city "caia "lgn cn001 -" 20.783
Guard. toward the railroads as a resnlt of Uca'a Public Library ....... .217,610
While department officials will not thexunion station agitation. The con
say that a real step in this direction! census of opinion was that a serious
is being taken, it is known that be- mistake was being made in adopting
Will IVTlOtt by a sides Communicating with the author- retaliatorv measures and antacronir
C 11 t..x -W-IBT- .X- 1 . - - I
oiuaii uui ueciuai llties of the .ifferont ctatoc octln !, A, Tn, ; ,
; " w mwx.wj tX filing m XAAXXWAUO. Xli xxxil 19 ttlx
mat tney get tneir men in gpm shape Jeral that the railroads are not at
Plurality
K. i. O. Elks .........199.541
Mcintosh Public School...... 65,002
Fessenden Academy ........ 10,549
Anthony Public School ...... 29,348
Reddick Public School ...... 17,943
Citra Public School ......... 16.723
generally, figures have been submit- fault in the matter of locating the JeUeview ublic. School. ..... 12,435
Tallahassee : .W 1RT1,a 0 " . l ouuxuiu- xau wavwi.i
, . x.. xxv- I i&f chnnnr, ,,tI,X x: - I ,.xx.- l..x xl x xl. . -x.l x -1 . J x
returns ro. A . -"a F'" ux suanwn, uui, mat me city ueu vo
..v.,xv.v.v. xivx iciuii KiruiE tVin AT-, - l r 1 u t j j x. . t
the nffiml t,,m 4- tvA vuxiu Koum oe aepena- ta:e action soon enougn.
returns from the entire
state' give W. N. Sheats the nomina
tion over Dr. Kelly for state superin
tendent of public instruction by a
good majority.
Forty counties official and twelve
counties unofficial give Catts a lead
of ninety votes over W. V. Knott for
the nomination for governor.
cd upon. - That 'some" suitable mobili-
Ocala Presbyterian church ...
Ocala Woman's Club
It was not so stated at the Board J3 ??ason
zation point may , be picked in the of Trade meeting, but the sit upon
bouth by the war department for con-I which the station is building was ap-
centration purposes soon is not doubt- proved by the committee which was
ed by those here who know the sit
uation."
Forethought
in charge of promoting the union
station in the first, place, and this ap
proval was evidently accepted by the
city at the time.
People are learniner that a little
forethonO'ht. often cores tham a K?
btoves and kitchen utensils, beds, expense. Here is an instance: E. W.
chairs, dishes, piano, fruit jars, etc., Archer, Caldwell, Ohio, writes: "I do
etc., for sale. In room rear of Dr. E. heleJl ?u.r ,famil7 h en
an Hoods office, Yonge building, dtf and Diarrhoea Remedy sine? we com-
menced keeping house years ago.
Our "unclassified' column will seTl .w,flen.we ?? on an extendd visit we
uA.c iu wau us. vDtama uie every
where. Adv.
REQUIRED MORE ROOM
Ocala Methodist church .....
Ocala Conjmercial Club .
Ocala Lodge K. of P.........
Oklawaha Public School ....
! Sparr. Public School
Orange Lake Public School...
Ocala Christian Church
Ocala Fi?e Station .... . . .
Ocala Tolice Department.....
7,920
11552
11.940
13,141
16,357
16,660
6,620
4,589
615
2,975
5
1
it for you. Try it.
tf j (Concluded on Foarth Page)
OCA
LA STAR VOTIWG
THIS COUP)N IS GOOD FOR FIVE
VOTES IN LIBRARY CONTEST
VOTED FOR
COUPON
Cut out, fill Li name of church lodge, school or other organization
you wish to vote for, and deposit in ballc"; box at THE COURT
PHARMACY. :
The official judges of the contest are Messrs. Geo'ge Pasteur, Her
bert Lattner and Ed. C. Bennett.
Commercial Club Soon Found .that THE USUAL MAXWELL RECORD
' . -Messrs. V- Yonge and L. E.
Cramped Yone h's son-in-i- .
. , . r - f tvvuiucu Cft- .
The rooms of the Commercial Club terday afternoon from a week spent
are being added to according to the most pleasantly at St. Petersburg
plan recently announced. Workmen and Pasj-a-Grille, visiting Mr.
are busy making alterations in the Yonce's father and sisters.
large room to the left at the head They left St. Petersburg at 5
of the stairs of : the Merchant's o'clock :n the morning, stopped two
building. This will be used as a din- hours en route and reached Ocala at
mg room. jio c ciock, tne spedometer showing "
150 miles traveled, with a gasoline
Bcivcl Complaints in India j consumption of a scant seven gallons,1
In a lecture at one of the Des "er than 21 miles to the gallon.
Moines, Iowa, churches a missionary The car never missed a stroke, going
from India told of foinf into the in- or fnmlntr hn,-U r. xi . .
7 . i r v. i." r . t V"xxx.xx6, v"u6u avmp ox tne road is
tenor of India, where he was taken aajte bad vu
sick, and that he had a bottle of " .
Chamberlain's Colic, Cholera and lne gentlemen report wonderful
Diarrhoea Remedy with him and be- development and improvement in the
lieved that it saved his life. This country, on the lower end of the trin
remedy is used successfully in India especially ... rip
both as a preventive and cure for
cholera. You may know from this
that it can be depended upon for the
milder forms of bowel complaint that
WTe have a new perfume, Bouauet
occur in this country. Obtainable Dozira, a fine lasting extract, $2 per
everywhere.
Adv. ounce. Gerig's.
