t Ji A JUL i 1
31
VOL. 52 NO. 143
BIDGEPORT, CONN., FRIDAY, JUNE 16, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
JL1 aJL A jULCm
ji ij if jEp 1 i (Pll
THOUSANDS
Former Bridgeporter and
Companion Meet 1 Tragic
Death As Hughes Drives
For First Time in Auto
mobile He Had Just Pur
chased. '
Victim Was Production
, Manager For Bullard Ma
chine Tool Co. In This
City Until Year Ago
When He Went to Fitch
burg, Mass.
. Pinned by the wreckage of an auto
; mobile, with the weight resting on
1 their necks, John D. Hughes, formerly
of 1855 Main street, Stratford, for in
fer production superintendent of the
J Bullard Machine Tool Co. of this city",
and Einar Q. Iindstrom, assistant to
Mr. Hughes as supjerlntendent of the
' Manning, Maxwell & Moore plant in
Fitchburg, Mass; were found dead. on
i the Ash by road, four miles from
Fitchburg, at 6:45 o'clock last night.
' The wrecked machine and a .mar
ried rocky ledge close by gave the only
- inkling of the tragedy, which as far
as the police have been able to learn,
had no witnesses. -
The auto, a second-hand car, was
bought yesterday by Mr. Hughes
" "When the accident occurred, he was
takinghis second lesson in operating
the machine, from Mr. Iindstrom, an
experienced driver.
The men left ' Fitchburg at 6:20
-o'clock after finishing work and went
up the Ashby road. The position In
w,hich the machine was found made
it apparent they were on the return
trip, coming-down a slight grade,
when they were killed.
..While the exact cause of the acct
: dent could not be determined, the po
f lice believe Mr. Hughes was driving
when it happened. Whether the. ruts
tin the- road, a break in the machine
tor the inexperience of the driver ca.ua
,ed the auto to get beyond control is
reomething theAshby authorities- are
' endeavoring to ascertain.
Wheel marks indicate the car
.swerved from side to side for a. short
'distance and then struck the ledge
nd turned upside down, f ". ,
iWhen found, the feet of the men
protruded from one side and their
beads from the opposite side
Mr." Lmdstrom's right arm .was
-around Mr. Hughes as if he had en
deavored to right the course of the
car when it struck the ledge.
Clifford Foote, 1S1 Green street, a
chauffeur, driving the mail car be
tween ' Fitchburg' and Ashby, and
'John. Katsis, Ashburnkam , hill road,
t vho was '"with him, discovered the
overturned' machine.
They endeavored to free the men,
"fbut being unable to move the
machine went to the- home of E. E.
"Radeliffe, a half mile from the acci-
-dent. Mr. Radcllffe sent word to
Lieut- James F. Roy at central police
station. " H v
Medical examiner George P. Norton
and Dr. Edward F. O'Malley with
patrolman Edward H. Chainey went
- ito the scene. The Ashby authorities
(were notified and seAt assistance. The
icar was lifted and th men were laid
ton the side of the rcd.
Dr. Norton, after - examination
pronounced the men dead, but could
(not prder the bodies moved, as Ashby
5a not in his district. Selectman James
lA-llon. Ashby, took charge until the
crrival of examiner Frank
B. Bulkeley, Ayer, o'clock.
Herman F. Brandes, of 267 Myrtle
avenue, president of the Springfield
Jvianufacturing Company . of . this
icity, and works manager of
khe Putnam Machine Company of
Fitchburgh. established identification
of the men, , when he arrived with
other officials). Mr. Brandes ' was
overcome, when he saw the lifeless
(orms.
Medical Examiner Bulkeley stated
(that death was probably due to stran
gulation. The bodies were removed late last
Slight in the police ambulance to the
(undertaking rooms of H. L. Sawyer
'& Co., Oliver street.
Mr. Lintlstrom was about 40 years
told, and lived on Marion street. He
bias a wife "and four children.
The auto was extensively damaged.
iThe steering wheel was smashed,
"windshield broken, and the right front
if rame-v mud guard, spring and head
light' demolished. The rear left tire
was flat.
Mr. Hughes left his position as pro
duction "superintendent of the Bullard
Jjlant for the" superintendence of the
Putnam Machine Co., in Fitchburgh,
known also as the Manning, Maxwell
Moore plant, a year ago.
Mr. Brandes had been superintend
. ent of the Bullard Machine Tool Co.,
And resigned to take a position with
the Manning, Maxwell & Moore Co.
pCnowing Mr. " Hughes' ability. he
brought him with him.
Mr Hughes was born In Bridgeport,
Oct. 15, 1874. After graduating from
m. grammar -school and the Bridgeport
'High school, he learned the machin
ist and tool making trade at the plant
of the Eaton, Cole ' & Burnham Co.,
now the Crane Co. Afterwards he
svas engaged in the engineering and
designing departments, until 1900,
when he accepted a position with a
Jarge concern in Berlin. Germany. He
remained there approximately three
years.
Returning to the United States, he
fecame connected with the engineer
ing department of the Kennedy Valve
Co., Coxaaekie, N. x -. leaving there tob a Tt,Corcf in Waterbury. His case
nter the engineering department of" continued in the city court for
" (Continued on Page 2.) jJier investigation.
ADJUST CHARGE
MADE AGAINST
ATTORNEY KANE
Grievance Committee Will
.4
Not Press Allegation,
Folldwing Meeting.
tt was learned today that tne Griev
ance committee of the Fairfield Coun
ty bar will not press the charge re
cently made against Attorney George
Kane by a client. The committee met
this morning at the county courthouse
and it was reported later that, the
complaint against "Attorney Kane had
been satisfactorily adjusted. It was
charged that the lawyer had failed to
file an accounting in an estate in
which he had been retained.
The committee met . this afternoon
to consider the complaint made against
Attorney John P. ..Gray. No charge
of financial irregularity was against
the lawyer. The dispute arose regard
ing the handling of divorce suits
brought by Oscar E. Kessler and
Johanna H. G. Kessler of this city.
It is claimed that the matter was. only
a misunderstanding.
HOLCOMB READY
TO BE DRAFTED,
HE REITERilTES
Governor Isn't v Going to
Quit and Would Take r
' ' - Job Again. ' .
Hartford, June 16. In a recent
speech at Stamford certain utterances
made by Governor Holeomb were con
strued by some as indicating that he
Hfould retire from public life at the
end. of his present term. Inquiry was
made today concerning : such, inten
tion. The governor replied:
"If 1 the 'Republican convention re-,
nominates me I will accept for an
other term. As I have said before', I
am Willing to be drafted but I will
make no canvass for the, nomination
or do anything to ' secure he, election
of a' single delegate." V
Governor Holeomb will leave - the
state June 23 for Salt Lake City, Utah,
to attend the 'annual meeting of the
governors of all the .states in the
Union. He will be absent ten days or
so. In his absence, Lieut. Governor
Wilson of Bridgeport will act as gov
ernor. WHITMAN
CERTAIN
HELP OF
ISN'T
ABOUT
MOOSE
"You Never Can Tell," He
Says Before Call on
Hughes.
New "York, June 16. Governor Chas.
S. Whitman arrived here today from
Afbank, expecting to confer during
ten day with Charles E, Hughes, Re
publican candidate for President. Gov
ernor Whitman, when asked if he
thought the Progressives would sup
port the Republican ticket, replied:
"You never can tell."
Governor Whitman went direct to
the hotel where Mr. Hughes has his
headquarters and went into confer
ence with the candidate. Myron T.
Herrick of Ohio, former ambassador to
France, Joined this consultation.
Mr. Hughes expected to leave this
city late today for Washington, to
return here probably Sunday night.
Blame Burglaries
On Old Offender
Found in West End
Many of the recent burglaries and
thefts in the West End are believed
by the police to be the result of the
work of John Tracy, an old ' offender.
He was arrested yesterday afternoon
on the complaint of Mrs. Robert Moore
of 72 Ogden street who saw him en
ter the home of Mrs. Matilda Silhaby
at 6 4 Organ street.
Tracy is alleged to be the one who
entered Mrs. Silhaby's home the day
before and stole $8 from a bank, 5 8
cents and 75 cents from two pocket
books and also two $10 gold pieces
and a watch belonging to a boarder.
It is believed that he also entered the
People's Market at 1248 State street
Wednesday night and stole 300 pen
nies for 132 pennies and 48 cents in
other change werefound on him whe
arrested by Detective Seery and Door
man William Lundberg.
In the Bertillon department, Tracy
is listed for several arrests in 1904
and 1911 and is knowri as Tracy, John
Cramer and James Walsh, He also
RISONE
mm
War Office Reports New
Capture of 14,000 Men on
Southern Front Dead
- Man Hill Scene of Heavy
Fighting. Austrians Mass Big Force
For Attack, Against Ital
ians on Tyrol Front
Bulgars Withdraw From
Rumania.
Petrograd, June 16 The cap
ture of an additional 100 offi
cers and .4,000 men was an
nounced today by the war of
fice. The Russian successes, in
the offensive along the south
ern front are continuing, the
statement declares.
Austrians in lilgr Drive.
Rome, June 1 6 Austro-Hungarian
troops estimated to number 18,000
attacked in dense formation the
Italian positions on theAsiago Pla
teau. They were repulsed, leaving
piles of corpses before the Italian
trenches, says an official statement
given out by .the war office b.ere to
day.
Bulgars "Withdraw Troops.
Athens, June 16 It- was reported
in Athens 'today that the Bulgarians
their forces from Saloniki . to the
Rumanian frontier.
Heavy Fighting At Verdun.
Paris, June 16 Powerful German
attacks made last night on the French
position southeast of Thismont Farm
on the Verdun front broke down under
the French machine gun and infantry
fire, according to today's statement
by the war office.
The statement says that the Ger
mans began their assaults at 6 o'clock
in the evening on the right bank of
the Meuse from Hill No. 321. to the
edge of Hill No. 320. At the same
time another attack was launched at
the southern edge of the ' Caillette
Wood. - Attacks were .repulsed. - - - -
The trench captured by the French
yesterday on the southern slope of
Dead- Man Hill was also the subject
of several German attacks during the
night, all of which failed. It is an
nounced that the total number of
prisoners taken by the French at the
time of the capture of the trench is
five officers .and 180 soldiers. .
RUSSIANS USB JAP GUNS.
London, June 16 A Central News
despatch from Petrograd says that
much of the effectiveness of the Rus
sian artillery in their great Galician
drive is due to the use of big Japan
ese guns. These guns are said to be
more powerful than any that' tbe
Prussians have had heretofore and
are charged with shells-filled with a
new explosive, the destructive power
of which is terrific.""" ..
BRITISH ARE WITHDRAWING.
Constantinople, June 16 A further
withdrawal by the British below Kut-EI-Amara
on the Tigris after the re
cent repulse by the Turks of an at
tempt to advance, is reported in a
statement today by the Turkish war
office.
WOMAN'S CAR
BUMPS ANOTHER
AND PEDESTRIAN
Mrs. Sackman ; Turns to
Avoid Man and Crashes
Into Another Car.
To avoid striking William Rignay
of 944 EsRst Main street as he crossed
Barnum avenue just east of East
Main - street shortly before 1 o clock
today, Mrs. C. M. Sackman or 309
East avenue swerved her car to tne
left and it crashed into the automobile
owned by George C. Edwards of 174
Park place smashing the radiator
and " mudguards of the Sackman
machine and doing some damage to
the Edward's car.
Rignay had alighted from a north
bounu ii.ast Main street car and was
crossing the street when Traffic
Policeman Carl Henckel signalled the
traffio on Barnum avenue to move.
Mrs. Sackman was driving east and
as she reached the other side of the
street, Rignay stepped in front of the
machine. She turned to avoid hit
ting him but was unsuccessful and he
was knocked to the ground and her
automobile crashed into the Edwards
machine.
The running board and mudguards
of the latter car were bent and brok
en by the force of the impact. Rig
nay was picked up and the ambul
ance corpse was summoned but the
doctor in charge found that he was
only bruised and did not require
m'""'"1 fteTiton.
Policeman Henckel took both par
ties second precinct police sta
tion but as the matter was one for
civil action", no one was placed under
arrest. "
At the time of the accident, the
streets were crowded with people re
turning to their work in the nearby
factories and when the cars crashed
a large crowd gathered.
New Haiven, June 16 Fore
cast: unsettled, probably showers
tonight and Saturday; rising temperature.
PEEPMEPMISS 99 r 'EKE CMF
Democratic Platform
Following is the text, in
today at St. Louis by the Democratic National convention: '
The Democratic Party in convention
assembled adopts the following dec
laration, to the end that the people
of the United States may both realize
the achievements wrought by four
years of Democratic administration
and be apprised of the principles to
which the party is committed for the
further conduct of national affairs.
Record of Achievement.
Ve endorse the administration of
Woodrow Wilson. It speaks for it
self. It is the best expression of
sound Democratic policy at home and
abroad.
We challenge comparison of our
record, our keeping of pledges, and our
constructive legislation, with those
of any party of any time.
We found our country hampered
by special privilege, a vicious tariff,
obsolete banking laws and an inel
astic currency. Our foreign affairs
were dominated by commercial inter
ests for their selfish ends. The Re
publican party, despite repeated
pledges . was i impotent to correct
abuses "which it had f ostered. Under
our administration, under a leader
ship which was never faltered, these
abuses have been corrected and our
people have been freed therefrom.
Our archaic banking and currency
system, prolific of panic and disaster
under Republican administrations
long the refuge of the money trust
has been supplantei by the federal
reserve act, a true Democracy of
credit under government control, al
ready proved a fir?ncial bulwark in
a world crisis mobilizing our resources,
placing abundant credit at the dispo
sal of legitimate industry and making
a currency panic 'impossible
We have created, a federal trade
commission tt accomodate the pe'r
plexing questions arinslng under the
anti-trust laws so that-monopoly may
be strangled at its birth and legiti
mate Industry encouraged. Fair com
petition in business is now assured.
We have affected an adjustment
of the tariff adequate for revenue
under peace conditions and fair to the
consumer and to the producer. "We
have adjusted the 'burdens of taxation
so that swollen incomes bear their
equitable share. Our revenues have
been sufficient in timesN of world
stress and will largely extend the ex
penditures for the current fiscal year.
We have lifted human labor from
the category of commodities and have
secured to the workirigman the right
of voluntary association for his pro
tection and welfare. We have pro
tected the rights of the laborer against
the unwarranted issuance of writs of
injunction and have guaranteed to
him the right of trial by jury in cases
of alleged contempt committed out
side the presence) of the court.
We have advanced the parcel post
to' genuine efficiency, enlarged the
postal saving's system, added 10,000
rural delivery routes and extensions.
thus reaching two and one-half mil
lions additional people, - improved the
postal service in every branch and,
for the first time in our history placed
the post office system on a self-supporting
basis, with actual surplus in
1913, 1914 and 1916.
Economic Freedom.
The reforms which were most ob
viously needed to clear away priv
ilege, prevent unfair discrimination
and release the energies of men of all
ranks and advantages, have been ef
fected by recent legislation.
We must n'ow remove, so far as pos
sible, every remaining elements of un
rest and uncertainty from the path
of the business men of America and
secure for them a continued period of
quiet, assured and confident pros
perity. .
Tariff.
We re-affirm our belief in the doc
trine of a tariff for the purpose of
providing sufficient revenue forN thfe
operation of the government econom
ically administered and unreservedly
endorse the Underwood tariff law as
truly exemplying that doctrine. We
recognize that tariff rates are neces
sarily subject to change to meet
changing conditions in the world's
production and trade. - The events of
the last two years have brought about
many momentuous changes which in
some respects the effects are yet con
jectural' and wait to be disclosed, par
ticularly; in . regard to our foreign
trades. Two years of a war which
has directly involved most, of the chief
industrial nations of the world and
which --has indirectly affected the life
and industry of all nations are bring
ing about economic changes more
varied and far-reaching than 'the
world has ever before experienced. In
order to ascertain just what those
changes may be, the Democratic Con
gress is providing for a non-partisan
tariff commission to make impartial
and thorough study of every economic
fact .that may throw light either upon
our- part or on our fiscal policy with
regard to imposition of taxes on im
ports or with regard to the changed
and changing conditions under which
our trade is carried on. We cerdially
endorse this timely proposal and de
clare ourselves in sympathy with the
principle and purpose of shaping leg
islation within .that field in accord
ance with clearly established facts
rather than in accordance with the
demands of selfish interests or upon
information provided largely, if not
exclusively by them.
Americanism.
The part that the United States will
part, of the platform adopted
play in the new days of international
relationships which is now upon us will
depend upon our preparation and our
character. ' The Democratic ' party
therefore recognized the assertion and
triumphant demonstration of the in
advisabillty and coherent strength of
the nation as the supreme issue of this
day in which the whole world faces
the crisis of manifold changes. It
summons all men of whatever origin
or creed, who would count themselves
Americans to join in making clear to
all the world the unity and consequent
power of America.
This is an iss euof patriotism. To
taint it with partisanship would be to
defile it. In this day of test, Ameri
ca must show itself not a nation of
partisans but a nation of patriots.
There Is gathered here in America the
best of the blood, the industry and the
genius of the whole world, the ele
ment of a great race and magnificent
society to be melted into a mighty
and splendid nation.
Whoever, actuated by the purpose
to promote-the interest of a foreign
power in disregard to our own coun
try's welfare or to injure this govern
ment in its foreign relations or cripple
or destroy its industries at home and
whoever by arousing prejudices of a
racial religious or other nature creates
discord and strife among our people
so as to oostruct the wholesome pro
cess of unification, is faithless to the
trust which the privileges of citizen
ship repose in him and disloyal to his
country.
, We, therefore, condemn as subvers
ive of this nation's unity and lnteg-
iiLy M.iiu aa aestruetive or the welfare.
the activities and designs of every
group, or 'preranization, political or
otherwise, that has for its object the
advancement of the interest of a for
eign power, whether such object is
promoted by intimidating the govern
ment, a political party or representa
tives of the people or which is cal
culated and tends to divide our peo
ple into antagonistic groups and thus
to destroy that complete agreement
and solidity for the people and that
unity of sentiment and national pur
pose so essential to the perpity of the
nation and its free institutions.' ' ,.
We condemn all alliances and com
binations of individuals in this coun
try of whatever nationality or descent
who agree and conspire together for
the purpose of embarrassing or weak
ening our government or of improper
ly influencing with any foreign power.
We charge that such conspiracies
among a limited number exist and
have been instigated for advancing
the interests of foreign countries to
the .prejudice and detriment of our
own country. We condemn any po
litical party which in view of the ac
tivity of such conspirators surrenders
its integrity or modifies its policy.
Preparedness.
Along with the proof of our char
acter as a nation must go the proof
of our power to play the part that
legitimately belongs to us. The peo
ple of the United States love peace.
They respect the rights and covet the
friendship of all other nations. They
desire neither any additional terri
tory nor any advantage which cannot
be peacefully gained by their skill,
their industry or their enterprise; but
they, insist upon having absolute free
dom of national life and policy and
feel that they owe it to themselves
and to the role of spirited independ
ence which it is their sole ambition
to play that they should render them
selves secure against the hazard of
interference from any Quarter and
should be able to protect their rights
upon the seas or in any part of the
world. We, therefore, favor the
maintenance of -an army fully ade
quate to the requirements of order, of
safey and of the protection of the na
tion's rights, the fullest development
of modern methods of a coast de
fense and the maintenance of an ade
quate reserve of citizens trained to
arms and prepared to' safeguard the
people and territory of the United
States against any danger of hostile
action which may unexpectedly arise.
and a fixed policy for the continuous
development of a navy worthy to sup
port the great naval traditions of the
United States and fully equal to the
international tasks which the United
Sttes hoped and expects to take a
part in performing. The plans and
enactments of the present Congress
afford substantial proof of our pur
pose in this exigent matter.
International Relations
The Democratic administration has
throughout the present war scrupu
lously and successflly held to the old
paths of neutrality a,nd of the peaceful
pursuit of the legitimate objects of
our national life, which statesmen of
all parties and creeds have prescribed
for themselves in America sinre the
beginning of our history. But the
circumstances of the last two years
have revealed necessities of interna
tional action which no former genera
ton can have foreseen. We hold that
it is tht duty of the United States its
power not only to make itself safe at
home but also to make secure Its
Just interests throughout the world
and both for this end and in the In
terest of humanity to assist the world
in securing settled peace and justice.
We believe that every people has the
right to choose the sovereignty under
(Continued on page 4)
Following- Spectacular Midnight Session That Re-
nominates President Wilson and Vice-Presi-,
dent Marshal, Convention Adopts Report off
Resolutions Committee Platform is Vigorous!
Defense of Wilson's Policies and Contains;
Striking and Specific Promises of Immediatej
Remedial Legislation. N
Coliseum, St. Louis, June 16 After 24 hours' delibera
tion, the' resolutions committee this afternoon presented to
the Democratic National convention its completed platform.
Following the midnight session at which President Wil'
son and Vice Presiderft Marshall were nominated by accla
mation amid wild cheering, delegates were anxious today to
complete the business of the convention.
The platform as completed presented a vigorous defense
of President Wilson's administration; lauded his policies as
regards European affairs and Mexico; embodied the "'Presi
dent's own plank of denunciation of "hyphenates"; and gave
promise of immediate and specific remedial legislation in
various and important directions.' "Peace, prosperity and
preparedness" constituted its general burden.
Indications at 3 o'clock were that the convention would
complete its business today. . ,
The platform committee began its final session at mid
night and worked until dawn. : The report of the committee
was presented by Senator Stone,' the chairman.
The planks on "hyphenates," President Wilson's foreign
policies and preparedness were of utmost interest to delegates
and as drafted received hearty approval.
At 11 o'colck. the- hour of the .final
session of the convention to begin,
there were .not more than 200 dele
gates in the Coliseum and the seats
were filling elowly. The first gallery
rows were filled but there were no"
crowds around the doors.
The convention having been called
to order by Chairman James, prayer
was offered by Rabbi Leon Harrison,
of - St. Louis, who gave thanks for
"the greatest leader of this nation,
wielding no strong arm of flash and
yet triumphant in his invincible plea
for justice and humanity." He gave
thanks for" the wise and noble Presi
dent of the United States' who has
warded off disaster, who with firm
and fearless hand has steered us be
tween the menace of both warfare
and dishonor, assuring the people
peace without shame, a proud peace
with a head erect and diginty un
diminshed.' Chairman James called for the re
port of the platform committee but it
was not ready and the convention
settled down to wait.
At 11:43 Chairman James announc
ed that th.e platform' report would be
made in a few minutes. '
In response to a request from dele
gates to fix the time and place for
notification of President Wilson and
Vice-President Marshall, of their
renomination. Chairman James ex
plained that it was the plan io confer
first with the candidates. '
Senator Reed; of Missouri, then
made a speech to fill in the time.
The burden of Reed's speech was
an . ajtack on the nomination of Mr.
nugnes Decause ne was tnKen irom
the supreme court bench. He read
a statements which he attributed to
Mr. Hughes in 1912 which declared
against supreme court justices enter
ing politics. v
While Senator Reed was speaking,
Senator Stone, hairman of ' the plat
form committee, entered the hall and
although the platform had not yet
been presented to the convention, he
authorized its - publication because it
had been published without authority
and in violation of pledges of confi
dence in some parts of the country.
Senator" Stone made a brief intro
ductory address. "I am not going to
read it," he said, referring to the plat
form. "I have not been able to sleep
New York, June 16. Col. Theodore
Roosevelt suffered another severe
coughing spell last night x and this
morning, and was barely able to speak
above a whisper. His condition had
so little improved that his physician.
Dr. Hubert Guile, was called to the
hotel where he is staying. Dr. Guile
tokrhim to his office for examination.
The Colonel's appearance as he left
the hotel was haggard and' he shook
his head negatively when asked if he
Arrest Sailor Who
Slashes Coats of
Three Pedestrians
Nathan Buckner of Philadelphia, a
sailor was arrested on Water street
this afternoon for slashing coats of
pedestrians. He walked, up to John
Bobalsky of E31 James street, Edward
Manchester, a member of the Strat
ford police department and John Mc
Graw of the Central House and ripped
their coats with a knife. They said
he had no provocation. Policeman
Edward Dailey saw him wield the
knife and arrested him. '
a. moment In more than 30 hours.'"
Chairman Stone delegated the read
ing to Senator Walsh, of Montana,
and Senator Hpllis, of New Hamp
shire. Senator Walsh took, the speaker's
stand first and began reading at 12: 3 6
o'clock. Later he was relieved by
Senator, Hollis, who finishedreading
the platform at 1:80 p. m. Chair rrr&n
Stone then moved the adoption of the
platform as read. Applause greeted
the reading of various passages, not
ably those of "Americanism," foreign
policies, Latin-America and woman's
suffrage, the latter, however, getting
more of a demonstration from the
men than the women.
President is' Grateful.
Washington, June 16 Presidenl
Wilson arose early today to read ac
counts in they morning papers telling
of his renomination by the Demovratio
convention at St. Louis late last night
He had been awakened from sleep an
hour after midnight by Secretary
Tumulty and told over the telephone
of the convention's action i naming
him and Vice-President Marshall by
acclamation.
""I am very grateful to my friends,"
was his only comment.
The President retired only after re
ceiving over special White House
telegraph wires assurances that the
Americanism plank denouncing pol
itical activity of persons of foreign
birth would be adopted without Changs
from his own draft.
Fairbanks is Congratulated.
Indianapolis, June 16 Vice-President
Marshall, whow as renominated
by acclamation at the St. Louis con
vention last night, and Charles War-1
ren Fairbanks, former vice-president,,
who was named by the Chicago con-
vention, both ' are residents of In
dianapolis and are warm personal
friends of long standing. Among th
first to congratulate Mr. Fairbanks
on his nomiation was Mr. Marshall
and today the Republican nominees
sent his congratulations to the vice-
president.
Both Mr. Kairbands and Mr. Mar- ;
shall are ready to enter upon their J
campaigns as soon as they have been
officially notified of their nomination,'
felt any bettor.
Dr. Guile took the Colonel to the
office of Dr. Arthur B. Duel, about
two blocks away from tKe Colonel's
hotel. After remaining about 20 min
utes. Col. Roosevelt walked back to
the hotel alone, very elowly, and im
mediately retired to his room.
Mrs .Roosevelt left work at the ho
tel office that her husband would re
ceive s6 callers today. A special de
livery letter which arrived' ifor tht
Colonel was not sent up.
Jitney Driver Hits
Boy cn Bicycle And
Then Speeds Away
While riding a bicycle this aften
noon at Washington avenue and
James street, Kenneth Johnson, agec"
10, of 70 High street, was struck an
knocked into the roadway by a jitney
"bus. His wheel was smashed and ona
tf his toes was lacerated.
The driver of the 'bus stopped for a r
moment, then drove away. ' The num.
ber of the car given the police Is C499S, .
and. O. Krankel is listed, as the oiyij& J
