' ppV v1pH
I " ' fl
I Iron County Record'.-- ; 1
- WITH WHICH IS CONSOLIDATED "THE OBSERVER." H
m i .- - -..,,. . . i H
F i - - . ... , ,. ., m ii . .-. i.,,.,.,..,-,,.,.,. I,, , i, M-,, . ,.., . . , r 9pPPK
V VOLUME XXIII $1,B0 PER YEAH CEDAR CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY, JUNE 1G, 191C. 5 CIS. PER COPY. NUMBER 27. H
I ROAD DAY WAS
I BIG sura.
I At
4 Good Sized Crowd Responds to
,1 CiUl for Improvement of
'I Canyon Highway.
I A LOT OF GOOD WORK
t I WAS ACCOMPLISHED
,1 Some Adverse Criticism of Route Sc
lected Matter Should be Settled
t so All Could Unite.
t
i
, There was a fair responso to the
call for men and teams last Wcdnes-
Jday to jvork on the canyon road. A
bout 60 men and ten or a dozen teams
3 turned out, and those who did go
I worked with a will, so that fully as
i much work was accomplished as If
I one hundred men had been employed
in the usual way upon public works.
Some of the teams hauled as high ns
18 to 30 loads of shale, so that in the
mutter of shaling the road alone, a
lot of good was accomplished. In ad
dition to this high centers wero re
moved from a considerable portion of
the road in the lower part of the can
1 yon, and quite a section of dugway
I was built at a point where it was
I found advisable to change the location
!of the road in order to obtain a better
grade.
A few more .such days would put
the road in very fair condition as far
up as some of the first ranches.
Last night a grand ball was given
free to those who participated in the
road work, and there is now strong
talk of another road day in the very
near future perhaps next week.
It is seldom that everybody In a
- community can agree upon any kind of
I a public undertaking, and the building
ij of a road up the Cedar canyon to
give a short route through to Kane
! and Garfield counties as well as an
automobile into the beauty spots of
our mountains, is no exception to the
rule. Some men of intelligence and
M,r. Rood Judgment state positively that
W.V -the routftat present selected and be-
W . ing7ltriprovod,vis all wrong that there
IkfcAA. m v; two or three' bettor routes for the
BpK iJd,.l-llHflLsj5?nBPWi?sa
PP2bMiijjfa,,"canrtfathom have 'no per-
mwKp' ,-r-tf Bonal interests to serve in the matter,
' declare that it is the only route for
lpi5V JMadJow we don't profess to
, '"vt? yxS r. Hiing at all about the best
U . v route for the road, but wo do know
J that it is the helghth of folly for we
1 as ii community to be dividod and
bickering on a matter of so much im-
portance to the people as a whole;
and if there is really any question
about the matter, wo believe a com-
. potent engineer should be employed
j to go over all the available routes and
I decide which is the best and, most
I feasible route. That is the course a
I railroad company would pursue under
.v I similar circumstances, and we believe
, J it would bo the sensible thing for Ce-
sm dar City to pursue.
f Of course, all the purposes of the
road should be taken into considera
1 tion in determining which route was
-I best. The peoplo as a whole want
" I timber and lumber from tho moun-
' ' tains, they want coal from the mines,
ft and they also want the route into tho
5 r beautiful scenery of our mountains
I , and canyons, and in addition, the short
I " route to the counties on tho east Bide
1 of the range. We want the very best
J possible route for a road that will
-M serve all these objects, and if we are
m on the wrong track wo should get
T. i right just as quickly as possible.
1: - As already stated, the matter Is all
1 Greek to us, but if there is any con-
m V siderable sentiment that the routo is
M not being routed right, we should all
a & get together and arrange for a repre-
fi . sentatlvo from the state engineer's
: l office or some other competent person
' 1 1 to go over the various routes and
m make a report before too much work is
w done on the present route. And when
i the best location for the route is do-
m f cided, everybody should accept the re-
M port and work unitedly for the con-
'M struction of a first class road across
l the divide, and through tho beauty
" spots of nature, with which our moun-
m tains are so richly endowed.
H l THE WEEK'S OFFERINGS
Tfi l AT TIIORLEY THEATRE
I Following is tho program of moving
m picture plays to bo shown at tho
II Thorloy Electric Theatre during the
j week beginning Monday, Juno 19:
J Monday night Vivian Martin in
"Over Night,' a five reel feature by
; tho World company. ,
Tuesday five reel production by
' tho Universal company; western plays.
' , Wednesday five reel western pro-
'- " trr"1" by t,ie Mutual company.
J I Thursday five reel feature, "The
I " Bigger Man," Metro company.
I Friday "A Butterfly on tho Wheel"-
1 ' featuring Vivian Martin.
" I Saturday 6 reel western program
J jbiW the General Film compuny.
Jf r " Wrron Cox of St. Georgo was in
' jjj town on business today.
t Mr, Taylor, Z. 0. M. I.'b hardware
S drummer, was in town tho fore part of
ifl . thlweek,
3 l" Merchant Charles A. Workman of
1 Hurricane was in town today, enroute
I homo from Pino Valloy, where 1 ho had
i been attending a conference of one of
M tho auxiliary organization.
SALT LAKE ROUTE HAS
BIG IMPROVEMENT PLANS
Will Expend One and One-Third Mil
lion Dollars in the Betterment
of Its System.
The Salt Lake Route has begun the
expenditure of one and one-third mil
lion dollars in improvements.
These bcttctments included in the
1910 budget prepared by General Man
ager H. C. Nutt and approved by cx
Scnator Clark and Judge R. S. Lov
ett, provide for tho spending of $5-17,-000
for new rail of 90 lb. section,
$200,000 in bridges, nnd $511,000 in
miscellaneous improvements.
Several hundred men will bo em
ployed to carry out the new work and
increased activity will bo displayed
along tho entire system. A lnrgo part
of the material used will be bought in
Los Angeles. The new bridges will be
of steel with concrete foundations.
Increasing traffic over the short cut
to Los Angeles from the inter-mountain
states, in summer ns well as win
ter, justifies the extra Investments in
tho opinion of tho management.
STORY HOUR. 1
At 4 p. m. Sunday, in the auditor
ium of the public library. Any who
ure later will miss something, as wo
begin promptly us announced.
Story tellers this week are Mrs.
Mneser Dalleyt Mrs. Jennie C. Hunter
and Mrs. Mnttio Booth. The program
will be varied with songs by the little
folks.
The doors will open n little before
time so that the children can get into
tho cool room, but are expected to bo
orderly. E. CRANE WATSON,
Librarian.
FOUNDER OF JOHN
SON'S FORT DEAD.
passed Away June -1th at Ripe Age of
86 Years, at His Home Near
Benson, Arizona.
The following account of tho death
of.Je2tj&Ji. JohnjgQn.. yriicudied-re-!$fe
July W hishome near Benson?"Ariz
ona, was handed to Tho Record by J.
M. B, Higbee, of this place, who was
well acquainted with deceased, and
explains that ho was tho founder of
Johnson's Fort,now known as Enoch,
and that tho settlement was named
for him? Mr. Higbee further explains
that Mr. Johnson is Mrs. Georgo
Luflfo father, who is a resident of
Cedar City at the present timo.
His death occurred on June 4th:
(From tho Benson (Ariz.) Press.)
Sextus C. Johnson died Sunday
morning last at his home about a mile
north of Pemerene (Robinson) school
house aged 80 years. The funeral took
place Monday afternoon conducted by
Elder M. P. Cosby, of the Church of
Latter Day Saints, followed by other
members of the church who spoke in
eulogy of the deceased, Mr, Johnson
came of Revolutionary stock, in which
ho took great pride. His grandfather
was killed at the battlo of Bunker Hill
three days beforo his father's birth.
Tho deceased, who was born in Il
linois in 1829, became tho father of a
large family, lenving a wife, fivo sons
and seven daughters, besides a good
many grand-children and n few great
grand-children.
Mr. Johnson was leader of a large
company of emigrants that crossed the
plains from Missouri to Salt Lake
City, Utah, in early days. Ho was
captain of a company of minute men
in the early Indian wars, but boasted
of the fact thatJie never shed blood
but that a way was always found to
avoid it. His.just way of dealing with
tho Indians made him many friends
among them. Later he spent a good
many years laboring among them and
helped greatly to civilize some of tho
most vicious tribes of Southern Utah
and Northern Arizona. Mr. Johnson
was a pioneer and frontiers-man in
the truest sense. He helped establish
something like twenty-fivo settlements
in Utah, Arizona and Old Mexico.
Wherever Mr. Johnson went he was
noted for planting fruit trees and
beautifying the earth, and though
scorning often to realize that ho might
not live to enjoy the fruit of his own
planting, he nevertheless kept at his
good work. He was among the first
settlers to go into tho Mormon colonies
of northern Mexico, He saw village
after village spripB up in tho state of
Chihuahua, but true to his calling of
pioneer he pushed on out to tho fron
tier again. At the time the Americans
were called out of Moxico three years
ago, Mr. Johnson was at Morelos,
Sonora, where ho had built himsolf a
nice little home, seemingly content
theio to spend the last days of his life
In ease. Coming out with the settlers,
many of whom thought they were only
leaving for a month or two, but ho
had u clearer perception of what was
in store for the" colonists, for on leav
ing his) little homo With its cultivated
tracts and orchard of ripening fruit,
ho seemed conscious of the fact that
ho waa looking upon it for the last
tlmo. As ho drove away ho Btopped
and turning In the Beat of his. buggy
took a last long look of regret nt
having t leave his home. .Taking off
his hat he said impressivelyand sadly,
"Adhwl" turned 7 and came ''away.
CLEAN TOWN
SCORERS REPORT
Say Vast Amount of Good Ac
complished, arid Urge Im
portance of Continuing.
LIST OP THE PRIZE
WINNERS MADE PUBLIC
Unsanitary Toilets One of the Worst
Conditions and Which Committee
Urges be Abolished.
At the Libraiy auditorium last Sat
urday evening a meeting was held by
tho members of the clean town com
mittee, the mayor and other city of
ficials, at which n brief report was
mudo of the work of tho scoring com
mittee, which in the main was very
satisfactory, showing the town to bo
freer from unsanitary corrals, out
houses, etc., than for probably forty
years. At the same time, there is
still much room for improvement, nnd
in a subsequent scoring, which is to be
done in August, emphasis will be put
on other fcnturc3 of the clean town
work, such as schecning against flies,
painting, etc.
The scoring committee, having com
pleted the scoring of all the premises
in the city, reported ns follows:
Mr. and Mrs. E. II. Ryan, and Mr.
nnd Mrs. Alfred K. Smith, receive the
first prize of $10 for having the best
kept premises in the city.
District No. 21 received second prize
consisting of material to construct a
sanitary toilet; said district embraces
the B. A. C. and tho district school
buildings, and nil tho houses south,
north nnd west of thnt block.
Charles Lundgrcn receives tho set
of garden tools for having the best
sidewalk.
Frank B. Wood gets a lawn mower
for having the best kept lawn.
Other prizes arc yet to be awarded
later on in tho senson. There were
many other premises in tho city de
serving of favorable mention, and in
many cases it was no easy matter for
the judges to decide who were en
titled to the prizes.
.Thejicaple-generully lake kindly to
the clean town contest und have dono
n vast amount of good work, and if
they keep up their "lick" we will sure
'y win the state prize for the cleanest
citv in our clnss.
The biggest problem tho committee
met was tho old unsanitary outhouses
and we recommend thnt they bo abol
ished as soon 03 possible by the build
ing of those that are up to date.
A few people saw fit to "roast" tho
scorers, but we completed the work
without loss of life. Committee.
CEDAR CITY TEAM BEATS
PAROWAN IN ANOTHER.
Local Boll Tossers arc Too Much for
County Scat Boys Woeful Lack
of Public Interest.
So far the series of base ball games
that have recently been played by the
Cedar and Parowan teams have nil
resulted in favor of the local team,
tho scoro for the game played here
last Saturday being 19 to 7 in favor
of tho local nine. At the same time,
there is a noticnble improvement in
the playing on both sides, nnd it is
apparent that if tho practices can be
kept up there will be at least two good
ball teams in tho county by fair timo
in the fall. But on the other hand,
there is no improvement at all notice
able in the attendance of spectators
at the games, which so far have been
very poorly attended. It is just a lit
tle surprising that there is so little
interest manifested hero in our nation
al game. We believe that a little re
form is in Order in this matter, and wo
are convinced that the girls, and wom
en of our communities have it in their
nower to bring about this reformation,
fust turn out and Bee tho gomes, Ind
ies, and tho men nnd boys will soon
follow your example.
There is considerable expense con
nected with tho maintaining of oven
a good ball team, and yet the Ameri
can town that is without such an or
ganization is hardly a representative
community. There is an old saying
that a town thot cannot support a ball
team, a brass band and a nowspaper,
is a pretty poor sort of a town.
With-more practice tho games will
bo more hotly contested and conse
quently more interesting, and then wo
an take on some of the good teams of
tho northorW Utah settlements, which
will afford a lot of wholesome nmuso
ment for lovers of clean snort. But
everything has to have a beginning,
you know.
Show that Cedar City is a llvp. up-to-date
town by your patronage of "the
ball game each alternate Saturday.
Joseph Covington of Hurrlcano was
attending to business and visiting hid
sister, Miss Miriam Covngton, in town
today.
Quito a number of Cedar City young
people havo gone away for tni? sum
mer to attend -school nt the vax-ious"
institutions of learning. ' $J
- Henry Nelson and Mjss JrcneJIaij-j
riBwero quietly marriedpn-thlsscity'
last Wedncsdfy.'J'only. members pf the
immediate familUatblnMnesent,
' :-
PAROWAN
Ed. Mortcnscn has lntcly invested
in n'new Ford car.
"
A number of Pnrownn citizens mot
with tho County School Bonid last
Tuesday afternoon to discuss the nd
1 visobility of erecting a one-story
1 buildng ns recommended by tho state
achool building commission. Mr. Wat
kins of tho board was present and
compared this building with plans for
n two story building and, showed where
It was snfer and more convenient in
many ways. Tho one-story building
decided upon will contain n swimming
pool nnd gymnasium.. This is built on
what is known as tho six-nix plan,
which will contain rooms for n junior
high school. When completed Paro
wan will have ono of tho most mod
ern nnd best school buildings in the
stntc.
Miss Mary Bergstrom of Cedar City
is visiting hero for a few days, tho
guest of Mr. and Mrs. Win. C. Mitch
ell. n
Dr. Leonard of Cedar City was
culled to Parowan Thursday morning
to attend Stephen G. Thornton, who
at this writing is in a very critical
condition, suffering from romo form
of poisoning.
Miss Nora Richards is suffering
fiom nn attack of typhoid fevor.
Joe Dalton is improving slowly, but
is still sciiously ill.
M
Dr. Burton reports the an ival of a
baby boy at tho homo of Ed. Gurr,
forest ranger. All doing nicely.
Scott Mthcson has been employed
as clerk at the Parowan Co-op. Stoie.
m - mi.. ...
BIG FIGHT STAGED
ON PROHIBITION
Kobert W. Brown of Kentucky Sent to
lOrganizc League to Oppose
"Radical Legislation."
According to the ropoits that ure
current and items that uro published
in daily papers', it seems tho national
liquor association, as we.ll, no doubt,
n3 nil local liquor interests in the
state of Utah, are uniting for the final
and greatest battle ever staged in the
state of Utah for the defeat of prohi
bition. Recently Robert W. Brown of Louis
ville, Ky., arrived in Suit Lake City
and begun laying the plans for the or
ganization of a Greater Utah Business
League, and gave out tho information
that the purpose of the league was to
determine tho sentiment in tho state
n3 regards radical and sumptuary leg
islation, and to educate tho peoplo to
oppose such legislation.
llo is quoted ns stating: "I regard
prohibition ns radical legislation, and
am opposed to a prohibition law."
One of tho first persons in the state
whom he visited was Governor Spry,
whoi was so determined nt tho last
session of the legislature that tho peo
ple should not have a prohibition lnw
that he refused to veto the prohibition
bill tho legislature had passed until it
was too late for them to pass it over
his head. ,
It is quite an interesting coincidence
that Mr. Brown should visit Governor
Spry first, with his letter of recom
mendation from Governor Stanley of
.Kentucky. He later visited other im
portant citizens of tho stato, among
whom it ia peculiar to note that tho
names of come of tho leading liquor
people of the stato nnd thosa who
have been fighting prohibition in tho
state, nro most prominent.
They nro laying their plans to care
fully puck tho state convention nnd
tho county convention nnd. see to it
that men are nominated upon the dif
fetent tickets who, if elected, will best
servo their purpose to defeat prohibi
tion, Every political worker in tho state
and every voter should bo mndo thor
oughly acquainted with tho true pur
poses of the Greater Utah Business
League. Offices .have been opened on
tho fourth floor of the Atlas block Iff
Salt Lake City and in Mr. Brown's
private rooms at the Nowhousernotol,
nnd.thoy ard reported to have$25,000
at their call now, with more to como
if thoy-need it to defeat prohibition in
tho state of Utah,
Tho Republican party in tho state
of Utah will stand for prohibition this
fall and will see to it that no one ia
nominated on the ticket who would
stand in the way of giving this import
ant law to the peoplo of tho state.
A houso cleaning will bo indulged
In and Spry nnd evory qthor person
who have stood in tho way of prohibi
tion will bo eliminated from tho ranks
of Republican workers thot tho people'
of Utah may know that when tho Ie
pubJican ticket is selected this fall,
thoy will jrivp tho people prohibition
(and a governor "wiir be in tho chair
who .will froC try to dictato to the leg
islators, tho representatives of the
poopld, but will do their bidding, -and.
if ho cannot conscientiously signxthe
prohibition bill, ho will at lcnsthaVe
sufficient respect for tho people and,
'tiejr official repro8entatlvcB,4hc "tftto
legislators, to veto tho bill and send it
back to thm in timo for thejn to pass
Ht-iovor his head, if they should so
hoose'. A ,
'-Gewin-lino for the house elenning.
t;It'sfloming,Jn tho Republican ranks
'.ttiis fall, American (MMtty) Eaglo.
I;
.. ;
COWBOYS IASS0
KARAT LIB
Kcmurlutblc Nerve of. Wild Banr
that Crosses Vnllry in the
Broad Daylight.
COWHOYS WITH ROPES
TOO MUCH FOR BRUIN
Animal Dies an Result of Mauling it
Received nt Hands of Riders on,
Their Trusty Ponies.
Thnt wild nnd ferocious bears should
be found morning nt largo, in the
broad daylight, upon tho groat Esca
lonto doisort In this county, and within
n quniter of a mile of a 'lively, thriv
ing community like Lund, on the Snlt
Lnko Routo, is almost beyond belief,
and savors of a fairy story; but when
tho pnrticulurs are narrnted by respon
sible persons and tho fresh hide and
scalp are exhibited in confirmation of
the story, one Is forced to accept it.
We got the details of tho chose first
hand from Hobor Mocks, of Kanab,
who was the first man to diop his Inr
iot over tho head of bruin. Mr. Mocks
rave tho following account of tho cap
ture: "Wo had driven cattlo to Lund for
shipment, nnd wero eating breakfast
at camp in tho street about 7 o'clock,
when I 8tiw the bear crossing tho
loihond track about a quarter of a
mile 1101 lb of town, going west. I
lost no timo in mounting mv horse
nnd started in hot pursuit, followed
closely by Eugene Russell of Rock
villc. As I enmb up with tho bear ho
waB- just entering a pond or small
lake, and a3 my horse ran past tho
bear ho slipped und fell with mo al
most directly in front of tho bear,
which passed within arm's reach of
me ns 1 lay with ono leg pinioned be
neath my fallen horse.
"The bear went on through the
lake, whilo 'Gene nnd I, ns soon as I
had regained the saddle, rodo around
the outside, coming up with tho bear
again on the opposito side. Wa had
no difficulty- in- outrunning; bruin with
our horses, nnd 1 throw-my rope over
his head, tightening it about Jita ncjk
It took the bear only a second or two
to rise on Its hind legs and pull the
iopo over Its head with its fiont paws
Then 'Gene got n throw with his ropo
ntcliinc the bear around tho body
and I dropped my ropo over itn head
again, and by pulling in opposito di
rections we held tho niiminl until the
other boys enmo up with tho wagon
In tho menn time tho bear fought des
perately, and had to be soverly choked
with tho rope in order to control it.
When the other boys came up they
helped to tio tho animal's legs secure
ly, which with tho aid of a skid, we
then loaded on the wagon and took it
to Lund,
Wo figured on making a prisoner of
tho animal by placing it in tho steel
cage at that place uned us a jail, but
wo hardly got tho bear in tho cnge
beforo it died as a rc3ult of the maul
ing It had roceived,
"What kind of a bear wbb it," we
naked Mr. Meeks.
"A black bear, I think," was the re
ply: "it would weigh about six or sev
en hundred pounds,
- The hide, which passed through Ce
dar on Its wny to tho Parowan tan
nery, weighed 110 pounds.
Tho thought that bears are stroling
nt largo on the desert will bring fenr
and consternation to many a lonely
homesteader, wc imagine, in the west
onupart of this county, particularly
if tho homesteader chances to bo of
tho feminine persuasion.
Tho hide nnd bounty on the Bcalp
would net the boys near to $G0.
OLD PIONEER OF CERAR
GOES TO HIS LAST REST
A3 we are closing the forms on thii
Issuo of Tho Record, wc learn of tlv
death of John S. Walker, one of thr
early pioneers of this place, at tin
advanced age of 83 years, his last
birthday having been on tho 10th of
lust February,
It is too lato to obtain particular?
for a biographical sketch of his life
this week, but we will obtain same for
our next issue.
District Manager A. T. Jones, of the
Utah-Idaho Motor company, reports,
the sale of two more Maxwell cars
witlrin tho past two dayB, both of them
to residents of Hurricane, Utuh.
Saturday and Sunday next confer
ence of the St. Georgo Stake will br
hold at Enterprise, and today n lot of
noqplc from St. Georgo and the up
river settlements of Hurricane am'
Toquervillo and othojteWayhinKtor
couivty settlements hvopttased tlirt
enjoute there.
A"very nccessnry,and much nppro
dated piece of road improvement is Ifi
pi ogress just norUjofyCedaiv Cityt
which will smoothitMtl)Cy'hhbonr):
thnt wo havo been trave)ito'ever sine!
tho PAiawnn.CcdarWnfcwas graded
'bjy tho state,. AttbiitSttrho tho new
work was -not smootbTp down bpfnf?
travel t-ommcncoil ajtfli, puod it 9.
1 hard Miat it hns sopgiirt''b lrtir.cn
ble tn pet ft bik inin slmiie i'Ij '
entirely upsetting the tftn.lo wl.u-fc
now being dono, ajuuiUio uifae riffi
orcd with shale, ythlcli will mako'pjfftf
more splendid approach toi'town.-fiH,
i
iAiM&g&X2JfaZ,J:
KANARRAVILLE. H
Kannrravillo, Utah, Juno 12, 1910. , ;
DIED. Juno 10. nt 3:65 p. m.. the ' V
wifo of Joseph Pollock, our local '1
blnck8inith. Death resulted from a ' "H
sevoio enso of stomach troubld of long , ,H
standing. About a year ago Drs. tI
Middlcton und Leonard mndo an ex- Jl
amlnntion nnd pronounced her afillc- 3flH
tlon cancer. While sho hns suffered WM
moro or loss for tho post fifty yenrs 1
with pains in tho region of her stom- jH
nch, the Inst year she has been much 1
worse, and hns been confined to her ;vH
home, and n consldurnblc portion of "11
tho time to her bed. All her children, ttl
! with the exception of two daughters, JH
wero nt her bedside when tho chnngo 9
rnmo. Sho wns the mother of eleven liH
children, two of which died in infancy.
Her living children nro: Samuel L., 'H
Wallace, Henry nnd Polo Pollock, Mrs. -)M
John H. Williams, Mrs. Jcsso Wil- '1
linms, Mrs. Joseph S. Willinms, Mrs. :H
Dnnlel Webster, Mrs. Ellis Christen- " jH
son. There nro 10 grund-chlldrcn and H
six great-grandchildren, besides hor M
husband loft behind to mourn hor de- H
pnrturc. Sho was in her 07th year. iM
It has been indefinitely decided by il
tho county commissioners and county - aH
rond supervisor, with tho peoplo hero, HH
to chnngo the county road from hero '1
to Now Harmony, to run through tho 41
field west from the public square. It 11
was voted by tho people to put tho &H
road through tho field. ,H
Tho mountain road is being put in , . !H
good condition, one picco of new rond H
rutting out tho red dug way, which .H
hns been in a dangerous condition for lll
tho past two or three yenrs, nnd which iH
has been regarded as tho steepest part H
of tho rond. Tho chnngo is much ap- 'H
predated by everyono who has occa- 'M
sion to travel tho road. There have jH
been quite n number express thoir wil- -1
lingncss to donnto towards it. j-l
MORE INTEREST M
URGED AT GAMES 9
Cedar City Will Havo No Bull Team I I 9H
for Holidays and Fair Unless . i H
Encouragement is Given. , : r H
. ....,pNw. A -1 iM
I was intoicstcd in reading tho re- H
port of last Saturday's ball gamo in lH
tho Purojvan Timc3, Cedar City items. (H
I feel that a few lines ure worth re- Ijl
pcating: "Neither team played worth H
mucks, so some of the funs claimed, 11
and stated that both teams must jing- - - 1
io if thoy expect to hold the interest 11
of the base ball fans." IJI
Whilo the games oetween Cedar ii JH
City nnd Parowan have been ruthor ' .J
loosely played and not as interesting nl
aa they might hnvo been, tho few real v
lovers of the gamo who live at Cedar
have made no complaint. They know ,H
that owing to expenso in bringing H
teams here that Purowan, up to this -7H
time, hns been the only town tho team "il
felt ablo to play. They realize, also,. , 1H
that a team cannot bo made in a week iH
or a month, and that a lot of loose , ril
playing is bound to come beforo tho AiH
moro perfect work. 4 ill
This is especially true in tho case of vH
the Parowan team, because of the fact llH
that tile town has had no team for- 'H
years and an entirely new organiza- ' H
tion is therefore being built. Great ,' tH
credit is duo Captain Brown and his ,' H
men for tho strong effort they are ,
making to build up n team, which will ..V 11
bo a credit to tho town, in the face of ' M
nlcagrc local support, "
In regard to tho Cedar team, the s H
boys have done splendidly, so far. v IH
Utcndanco at practico has been bet- tfH
tor than ever before. Prospects are' t - H
most excellent for one of tho best, im .H
teams, if not the best, tho town has vr - H
over had, provided that practico can r 41
be kept up through the summer. '41
Tills brings us back to the quoted ', IM
article: "Both teams must get up 'and -IH
jinglo if tlicy expect to hold the in-
tercst of the ba'saball fans." I know M
fhe few real fans, "of the towji. No -H
ueh statement would have come from. ''M
hem. They xve.ro on the bleachers, 'M
inving pniu their money like men, H
naking the best of n poor game. " .U
I have no question but thnt this H
itntcment, if it oiiginatcd u'liywhero !jM
QUtsido of the mind of the correspond- '1
ant, came from u purk fence warmer, M
vho never naid to son n bull came in H
his life, who novor played the gamo, , ;
nnd who has seen ono regular assocleP'- - jH
tion gamo through a crack in the ' ' 11
fence. I have one thing to;. sny '"j.o Sffli
such fans: The gate receipts last J&w
Saturday wore exactly ?.1.15. ' Tho JiK
first gamo 'brought us in $5.G0. Tho v fiw$
ball team is now $70,00 in tho I10I9, 5 Bgft
hanks to the generous support of the , t ' jfjjit
fence warmers nnd those who wero not
at hand. ' 4P
Tho situation ,,resolvo3 itself into ,-, "L . ' j- ,. t:jZ
this: Let thoRt "fans" who are so L ?? I Ki
onerous in thw criticism be juitaTykfff '.f'r'f ".!
"morous with thoir" money, or Cetjar ?.;J 'w, f-f3
"ity will have np ball teamr-pqod, y V f ' . j IJ.33&
f?al or indifferent. Le"t4hc;tQWp sup- f jj fc Jrl Of
-ort tho team now, or there will bo & ? ' .- w &
iu Cedar City team on the 4th, tho i? , , 1 KE)
24th or at the Fair. -BWt ! IW
As captain pf tho team, T amwP 1 t-Mf'
iting the proposition aquarelyuftlt ' t tB&jjf.
the people fifiCcdar jCity. It'fuiFtj " - ' 5g
you, If yqiT want iJeaml.J'oa mayaf mm.
Viaxo one. 'If-you rfUolfoawollita HSf ( -H
'P2gtPwn that can't'support a ball" . H
"''To nnrnphrnjfo lha niii'nflnn, Jharfnnlj, l
ktf tho towjuffifflrt Jim lo aJHtlo&W .
full tfiaipjp OLA'ijON .SLUICE.4 B
jyHfciHhut Hi other Ef-VCox H
lis.gruuunlly sinking, and that Brothor flH
iJUchttrU Pulmer is also failing fast. "mm
'' ' . ft . H
!';
