L^..:/
i&A-. ---vj.
It®
I iC/BeadToday's
It
Read Today's News
Trtday for Tomorrow
—i It Will Be History
-i
VOLUME FORTY-TWO
Bsa=^i.«
mmr/Li.
.' j'f
W\
A.
f'i.
platform at 5 o'clock this morning and
en3orsed the issue but leaves the adop-•
duu, of national affairs:
'We endorse the administration of
Woodrow WiUon. It is the best expo
feltion of sound democratic policy ac
home and abroad.
5^" "We found our country hampered by
a i«pecia! privileges, a vicious tsjlft and
an inelastic currenoy. Under our ad
ministration these abuses have been
correQtad.
W a
^,'iKtipplanted by the federal
.!-• 4. 1 L.. 1 A lit
^fllupoBal of legitimate Industry, and
making a currency panic impossible.
"We have created a federal trade
ommlsslon to correct questions arising
"under the anti-monopoiy laws.
Tariff and Taxes.
'We have effected an adjustment of
the
N
„n~A fair tn the con-
ndjusted the burdens of
that swollen incomes bear
ble share,
category
v\
I
$98$
i,
1
Question Disposed of in ^Twenty Words
Favoring Submission of Subject
to States.
BU POUC! DEFEHOtO 11 ItlSTH
II nSES EEHUTIES
Platform Declaration on Sympathizers With Foreign
Nations at War Vigorous Denunciation of Un
American Residents of United States—-Underwood
Tariff Law Approved, Shipping Bill and Other
Democratic Measures as Favored by Wilson Given
Endorsement, and Administration Commended.
St. Louis, Jun«*'16.—The resolutions
^committee of the democratic conven
V, S Ition after almost'twenty-four hours of
\deliberation, finished the draft of its __
nl
a*--|«uthorized the presentation of the doc- Plank on' Hyphenates,
be given by the convention without
,J*
Mt&:
tle best of the blood, the industry and
the genius of the whole world, the ele
ments of a great race a/id a magnifi
cence of society to be melted into a
jghty and splendid nation,
to pro
power in
at
ut
tlon or rejection to Individual states, j|(Yerences, so as to obstruct the whole
A straight federal amendment proposal
Teople of the United States may real-jrj^y
some
was lost by a majority of two votes. jeas
or
0
ea„«r nnrttn?he uroducer We have mately to us. The people of,
turner and to the producer. We nave
"We°have lifted human labor from1 neither any additional territory nor any ^^Htv
of commodities and have adVMtage that can not be
tje. urrd to the workingman the right their skill their industry, or their^en-
1
lur&l den\er routes, tnus reacnmis
,epostofflce system on a paying basis,
t{ trine of tariff for the purpose.of pro- of ar.army fully^ adequate to he
a,ding su^icient revenue for the oper- curity of the nation and the protection
fv ^hanging conditions *n the world's pro- .legitimate objects of our national rights ^F
N ductlon and trhde. Two years of war which statesmen of all parties' have,
V," Shipping Bill Endorsed.
"Immediate provision should be made
to develop -the carrying trade of the
United Statek. Our foreign commerce
has ln the past been subject to many
exatious obstacles ln the way of leg
is illation of republican congresses. Until
£& the formulation of the pending act to
^'promote the construction pf a mer
chant maflne it lacked even the pros
pect of adequate carriage by sea. We
heartily endorse-the policy of the pend
ing shipping bill.
iV "The part that the United States
will play in the new day of interna
tional relationships which is now upqn
us, will depend upon our preparation
and our character. The democratic
party recognizes the assertion of the
coherent strength of the nation, there
fore, as the suprerrfe Issue of this day
In which the whole world faces the
crisis of manifold change it summons
alt men Of whatever origin or creed,
who wotjld count themselves Ameri
cans to Join in making clear to all the
world the unity and consequent poW££
jf America.
i-r'Vt
which has indirectly affected the life prescr bed for themselvee in America. ,al,v
and industry of all nations are bring- since the beginnnig of history. „We
non-partisan tariff commission to curity of the highways of the seas for
every economic fact that may throw nations.
Might upon our future fiscal policy with
I regard to imposition of taxes on Wm
a ... -i J~
1 S W a a
Ity, conditions. We endorse this timely pro
posal.
much discussion. try's interests, or to cripple industries the mothers of the race: and eriuitable present no minority plank.
A suffrage plank of twenty words
jic'es racial, religious or other ployes.
process of unification, is faith
t0
he trust which the privileges
The platform follows- of citizenship repose in hlra and is dls- mad» goods
"The democratic party in national 1 j0yai to this country. "We favor thr- creation of a fed"ral
convention assembled adopts the fol- 1 "We therefore, condemn as subver- 1 bureau of safety in the department of
lowing declarations to the end that the
give or tll
ar
js nation's unity, and integ-{ labor.
.be'anprised of the policies to which th«j that has for its object the advancement! tion to assist laborers to seek and se
party is committed for the further con-
0
•'Our archaic banking ana currency txy of whatevef natUinalits' or descents "W demand careful etoromy in all
"fn ^It^ort Mthe gov
Mittoilisii ad ministration, loiui^ purposeofjembat+assiiig or we*keniny ^emmen and to that-end favor a. re-,
•S^ilBUpplahted by the federal' reAerve-^ci»| Qflejfjtjroyr representatives In dealing or. to the former practice (7f-+nitiating ap
-already proved a financial bulwark in
ne
.... woriij crisis, mobilizing "ur f1®' charge that such organisations do exist I .tee that responsibility
jf sources, placing abundant credit at
an{
j,ave
perated to the prejudice and tered.
An Army For Peace.
'the tariff adequate, for revenue under acter as,a nation must go the proof^ of.
••:r nur nnwAr tn nlnv thfi nart that Ipflriti-«
"Along with the proof of our char-j
our
power to play the part,that legiti-
,flbelongs
,rt ,nVB
TT
Thov
taxation so tne unuea states love peace, iney re-,
tneir equiia-
their eouita- spect the rights and covet the friend-j °yr
They desire
Balned
(*. 4-v.a ..Ipeitlmatp obipots of nur ri»Mrnfi] risrhts ...
ing about economic changes more Webelievethat thetSmehas come he splendid diplomatic victories of!
varied and far reaching than the world when it is the duty of the United States
has experienced. In order to ascer- to Join with other natlpns in any feas-j
In its conduct of To'"'?" affairs of thwi
•v- ifliiSSSIfe '"'li ""j»il S
country, hut have invaded our soil qnd
murdered our citizens, has rendered it
necessary to temporarily occupy by our
p.rmed forces a portion of the territory
of that friendly state.
Bid For Farmers' Vote.
"VVe favor the vigorous prosecution
of investigations and plana to rentier
agriculture more profitable, and coun
try life more comfortable and attrac
tive and".we believe thdt this should
be a dominant aim of the nation as
well as the state. With all its recent
improvement farming still lags behind
other occupations in development as a
business. Much has been accomplished
under the present administration—far
more than under any previous admin
istration.
"We approve the democratic admin
istration for having emphatically di
rected attention for the first time to
the essential interest of agriculture by
creating the office of markets and
rural organization in connection with
the department of agriculture and for
extending the co-operative machinery
necessary for conveying information to
farmers by means of demonstration.
National Aid For Highways.
"The happiness and comfort of rural
life and the development of city alike
are conserved by the construction of
public highways. We, therefore, favor
national aid in the construction of post
roads an3 roads for military purposes.
We hold that the life, health and
strength of men, women and children
of the nation are its greatest asset and
In the conservation of these the fed
eral government, wherever it acts asjThe
a
its own account and as an example put
into'"effect* the" following principles* of!
:„Uf Mm.n nau F-u.wrf
There is gathered here in America woridng da"y not*to exceed Xh "hours? "arrison
the
the standards of the "uniform child
I labor law" wherever minors are em-
-?ument to the convention. I "Whoever, actuated by the purpose: ployed: such provisions for decency, Ferguson, of Texas, would present a the entire resolutions committee was
It was believed that approval would
homet or whoever, by arousing prej- retirement law for civil service em-1 *n response to a request from dele-
i(3. as destructive of its welfare! "We favor the development upon a
interest of a foreign power, cure employment.
Ize the achievements wrought by four activities or designs of every group1 systematic scale of the means a'ready was an attack 011 thc nomination or Mr. nominated Mr. Marshall, cast aside
years of democratic administration andj
organization, political or otherwise, begun under the present administra
of sentiment Jtnd national purpose
enwitlal to the perpetuity of the na- the elimination -of loathsome disease,
tion and its free Institutions. the Improvement of sanitation and the
"We condemn all alliances and com-. diffusion* of a knowledge of disease
binatlons of Individuals in this c-oun--i prevention.
jj0tlating with any other power. We. proprlation bills by a single commit-
whether such object is Intimidating the! Twenty Wcrds on Suffraae. tribute to.,Mr. Hughes in 1912, which jde"''
government, a political power, or the I "We favor a thorough reconsidera- declared against a supreme court jus-
W? demand careful etoromy in'afl
rther' Tor lheT Pifienditiires ~rn "snrffcort "of the
jernbat+assing
ftieht of %ith a purpdsfe to turn bv the house of representatives
detriment of our country. "We recommend the extension
"We condemn any political party franchise to the women of the coun- Platform Starts Trouble.
which surrenders its integrity or modi-: try "by the states upon the same term's, 'America' was played by the
ties its policy. as:* men.
1
the sacred Irfehts
must be prpserved
u,f
V'rB
abl™d an^ no, tre?,ty
ernment shall receive thc sa
eovernnlPI,t
ern™'
by
of voluntary association for his wel- terprlse, but thejf- insist on absolute bring about th§ adoption
freedom of national life and policy and ,s, ,.
fare. I ,,om'
which it is their sole Einbition to pl&y, ,,
j\ y,000 additional people, Improved that they should render themselves se- dwell
no.tai service in every branch, and cure against the hazard of interference. ,We
ir the first time in our history placed from any quarters and should be able platforms relating to the develop-
«:iion of the government economically or its ngms tional band and levee protection.
1? „dministered, and endorse the Under- Rights on High Seas. Wilson and Marshall Endorsed.
»uod tariff.law as truly exemplifying "The democratic administration hasj ..Tr president and vice
.that doctrine. We recognize that tar- successfully^ held to the paths of neu-| Woodrow Wilson, of New
^l£ rates are subject to change to m*et tra and the peaceful pursu.t tne
ship of all othei nations. They desire, _.it „n,.„ Chairman Stone then delegated the
citizens, irrespective of race, previous
Our country reading to Senator Walsh, of Montana,
or rrfiK,on
hou)d str(v- parnestly for peaCe
amonK the
a
have advanced the parcel post feel.^atr'fle- n-e and humanity that all m°n shall en
to nuine efficiency, added 10,000 to the role o^f sp^Inted Independem enualitv of right and freedom from
„0i rinHvAt*v rnnffl^ thim rMchlnK
of the fundamental principle of justice
discrimination in the land wherein
dla
tain what these changes may be the ible purpose to maintain this, position: ^as us'out of Var. laughter.
democratic congress is providing for a to maintain inviolate the complete sa- ..Thig
make impartial and thorougj^ study «.» the common and unhindered use of alii jStory he world TTt»tn the record
^a
is a
of Aroer
nation the principle that should be the! «_
For 1 United America.
"We recognize now, as We "have al
ways recognized, a definite and com
mon Interest between the United States
and the othier people and republics of
ttie western, hemisphere in all matters
of free political development. Wfe favor
the establishment and maintenance of
the closest relations.
"We favor the. establishment and
mainteiunce of amity and useful help
fulness, between'the United States~and
the other republics of the ATnerican
continent for the support of peace and
the promotion of a common prosperity.
Monroe Doctrine Reaffirmed.
"This is an issue of patriotism. To 'responsible -government in Mexico, ca
tnlnt it /w^h partisanship would Pfible of punishing mauraudera and
be to defile it. In this day of teat bandit bandB, who haye not o/ly taj(en
America most *how Itself not a nation! the lives and seized apd destroyed the,
of n»rt^* b«» nation of patriots, {property of Americah -cttlzens in thelr* hibtllon flight.'
1
"The Monroe doctrine Is reaffirmed
as the principle of democratic prin
ciples. It implies the most scrupulous
regafd upon our part for the sover
eignty of every western nation." We
court their gootf Will, "We seek not to
despoil them. -The want of stable.
4
^*-r ••'•.rrk^^**i"^r*: "'"*ty^j•* Prro .A.'
3&fe'' V* fffi IV-,, ..?•}$£&.• _j^^'--. •'•:•»,
•ir.
MARSHALLTOWN, IOWA, FRIDAY, JUNE 16, 1916.
G. O.P. LEADER
Senator Makes Speech in
Democratic Convention
Scoring Hughes.
CRITICISED FOR
LEAVING BENCH
Final Seesioii of Convention Delayed
in Agreeing Upon Platform Nom­
inations Made Few Minutes Before
Midnight Thursday and Friday Su­
perstition Is Avoided—But One Lone
Delegate'"Agin" Wilson.
Coliseum, St. Louis, June 16.—The
-ftnul session of the. democratic conven
tion was called to order at 11: -'6 a. m.
seats flJled slowIy At
the hour set
XeZ^for ^us'S accidents: itr,UmPhant
f?r
JU«t,ce
and
mote the interest of a foreigrt comfort and health In the employ-1 minority plank on Mexico. The gov- not assembled to pass upon it and it
disregard to our own coun-jment of women, as should b« accorded ernor later let It be known he would w-as^ not known when that could be
may be cen-
Should Strive For Peace. (-hairnian btone. of the resolutions
We aero in declare the policy .tlmtl committee,- mounted' the platform t-j
nize the absolute equality of all ourlthen
reJlpw thp cleolarartnn inour
protect their rights on the seas or ^waterways Th? recent
Tariff Commission Favored. ,.5? devastation of the lower Mississippi
••We reaffirm our belief ln the doc-| "We therefore favor the maintenance
of Americanship Present the platform. Senator Stone
at home and looked haggard from his long vigil.
any gov- "I
am
of
two
vaUev anfl other 8eptions by
flood
accentuates the movement, for
thp refrulation of rlvpr flow bv addl
Thomas Riley
Marshall, of
who have
performed the
their officeg
an(J with distlnctIon
COTnmPnd to thP Amorif
.an
jPa
DW)
our Rrcat presidpnt who has proserve-3
the vital lnterests 0f
a
1
"The present administration has con
sistently sought to act upon and realize^
of the
countr-
pi* 11_ hcim -rrt ydtp aw STRIKE^
object of any association of•» nations ManB«" Rofuse Demands of Em
formed to secure the peace of the world ployes and Suggest Arbitration.
and the maintenance of national and New York,' June 16,-r-More than
individual rights. It has regarded the. 500,000 union and non-union Workers
lives of its .citizens of greater moment of America will vote withltn a month the committee on platform and resolu
than material-rights.
for an eight hour day and time, and a
half for overtime, as a Result of the
failure by representatives of the rail
roads and the men to reach a settle
ment here today after a two Weeks'
conference.
Hope at adjusting the dispute thru
the conference faded when the rail
roads submitted a tentative compro
mise offer to the men, granting their
demands but eliminating the majority
of existing "double compensation"
rules.
The conference adjourned to. give
the rt^ilrdad managers an opportunity
to discuss further their stand on this
point, but when-they met the men to
day they refused to make a-,specific
offer covering the compensation rules.
from his aeroplane while.giving an ex-
critical hour In the his-1 "B'S Sides" Cummings, of Maryland,
.rjtieal hour in the' moved that Mr. Lomasney's resolution
,)e
above set forth we appeal, to the voters tee and Chairman James so ruled.
Minority Report on Suffrage.
"A minority report on suffrage su^
niittsd to the conv,#nHon hv Rpprp
sentative Bartlett, of Georgia James
o'clock,
thc
ca!:lne
vpition,
Qt
of the con-
just employment: I delegates in their seats. Thursday night by the democratic na
Eight-Hour
Day Favored. Prayer was offered by Rabbi Leon
adaption of safety appliances and for the "great leader of this nation. I the convention did not finish its work
the establishment of thoroughly sani- wielding no strong arm of fiesli and yet
ln. W*
gates to fix the time and place for
Hughes because Ife wais taken from the
people, which Is Intended to divide our! tlori of the means and methods by ice entering politics. I nnhwr^Pmmptt' Hnrke 'nfTmnni** \vh^i
people ahd thus destroy that 'complets which the federal—government handles^ At J.-.02 ^senators Hollis and Walsh, .nnnlincini?
agreement of the people and that unity ouestions of public health to the members of the resolutions committee c^me toJ.be conxention ar'nounUnK
find national purpose soi that human life may be conserved by '•he suo-cotamittee as well, earnest he was opvosed to the president
mtb the halli lEhey said the platform '*"8
platform
band
and
R*d concluded
"°t S°ing to read." he said,
sanction of referring to thc platform. "I have not
a moment in more
which does not recog- b«'en able to sleep
thirtv hours
lne''
inirtj nouis.\
Hollis, of Montana. Sena
took the speakers' stand
and Senator
^arring nations of Europe tor Walsh
Uonored principles of the democratic
party regarding state rights.
While the argument was going on
William J. Bryan, fearful that one of
the recurrent demonstrations might in
terrupt the business of the convention,
left his seat and took a position under
the speaker's stancfr where he could
not be seen by the crowd.
"Not Intimidated by Women."
Governor Ferguson said Pi*esident
Wilson would not be "toitimldated" by a
fwv hundred equal suffragists. He said
tne party should come out squarely
and sincerely on the issue.
The Texas governor asked the dele
gates to "show yourselves free and
honest enough to vote your honest
convictions." He urged the convention
to act "honestly and sincerely," de
claring the people would know why the
pro-suffrage plank was placed in the
platform.
The agitation for equal suffrage, he
said, was sweeping the country today
when the women should be performing
the functions "for which God Almighty
intended them."
A few women in the front row of the
balcony wearing suffrage badgea
hissed the governor's remarks. Mingled
applause and hisses followed this out
burst.
Senator Stone, supporting the com
mittee draft, said Governor Ferguson
hnd misconceived the issue before the
convention.
He makes a man of straw, and then
demolishes it." said Mr. Stone.
Nominate Before Midnight.
Coliseum. St. I.ouls, .lunc 16.—Presi
dent Wilson and Vice President Mar-
there were not more than 2 0 0 '"hall were nominated bv acclamation
tional convention, the ticket being coin-
Dieteci
four minutes before Kriduv
S^outa, who gave thanks Contrary to expectations however
bec iuse
humanity." thatthe subcommittee drafting the
There was a report that Governor! platform had finished its work but that
110-
the platform was not ready.
was anno°Zcd Tt'^convention
,.. .. ... ...
There never was any doubt of Presi-
1 dent Wilson's nomination, but- there
didate. I the convention got in session anil as
Reod Attacks Hughes. iaoon as President Wilson's nomination
Senator Reed, of Missouri, thep made
ha(1 bKt
a speech. The burden of Iieed's speech acclamation, Senator Kern, who re-
lol,S
supreme court bench. clared: '1 nominate Thomas Riley
Reed read a statement which fje at- Marshall, of Indiana, for vice presi-
Whil® Senator Reed was speaking, Inffittiiapolls. June IS. -Vice Presi
SenaWrStftQnb,«srfelied -the haHr 'and dent ThemitiH K.^.Vljr.shall sent me*
ultho Obue Dlatform had »t yet been
made by a roaring chorus of
prepared speech and simply de-
wl
ro
I resident Wilsons nomination
%°te
had itut beeu releuaed witnauthority jdent's nomination 1,091 to 1.
and said no one but Senator Stone
jeould releasfe it for publication. Marshtl Congratulates Wilson.
!sas«
presented'to the convention, he au-'and Mrs. Wilson today.
tuorized its immediate publication, be "The reason I was not interested
cause it had been published in some about the-vice presidency nomination.1'
parts of the country, having been
re-!snid
leased by the United Press without au- stands or falls with the president, and
of! thority. the only thin:,- for a vice president to I
technically made the presi-
of i-omsratulations to President
.Mr. .Marshall, "is that our cause
do is to support his cause. I wanted
the convention to pick the man who
could best do the work."
ROOSEVELT AGAIN
HAS COUGHING FIT
Suffers Severe Coughing Spell During
Night and Today Is Scarccly Able to
Speak Above Whisper—Goes to Phy
sician's Office for Examination.
New York, June 16.—Theodore
Koosevelt suffered another severe
first and began reading at lUiofi o'clock.
Before Senator Walsh had finished
the preamble spectators in the gal
leries began to leave and the noise coughing spell last night and early to
made it hard to hearv 'day was barely able to speak above a
The reading of the platform was lin- Whisper. His condition had so little im
ished at 1:_0. There were cheers and proved that his physician. Dr. Hubert
the band struck up again. Guild, was called to Uie liotel where the
-Chairman Stone then moved tho colonel is stuying. Dr. Guild took him
adoption of the platform as read, and to his ottlce for an examination.
there were some cries of "vote it The colonel's appearance as he left
down." There were other cries of the hotel was haggard and he shook his
"iShut up." head negatively when asked if he felt
No Sympathy For Ireland. any better.
Martin M. Lomasney, a .Vlassachu- Thc colonel's illness came upon him
setts delegaie, objected to the adop-j two days ago when one of his coughing
tion. After a wrangle Senator Stona spells caused the snapping of several
yielded to Lomasney ten minutes of his ligaments of his ribs.
time. Dr. Guild, instead of taking the col-
It turned out that Lomasney wanted 1 onel to his office, took him to the office
to put in a plank to express the sym- of Dr. Duel!, two blocks from the col
pathy of the convention with "the peo- onel's hotel
pie of Ireland." After remaining there about twenty
"Raus fiTit him." roared a Maryland minutes the. colonel walked back to his
our country and' delegate. The convention rocked with hotel very slowly and immediately went
referred to the resolutions conimu-
R. Nugent, of New Jersey S. B. Flem
ing, of Louisiana, and Governor Fer
guson, of Texas, says:
The following report, as offered-to
on the advisability of callfng a gen-1 tlons to-wit: I months elapsed from the finding of
eral strike to enforce their demands! "The democratic party has always Marian's body, from Feb. 10 to May 5
to his room.
STAINS OLD WHEN ANALYZED.
Factor in Orpet Defense" Brought Out
in Cross Examination.
Waukegan, 111., June I6-—A Ja\tor
stood for the sovereignty of thc several when Marian's coat and other gar
stfites in the control and regulation of ments were brought to Dr. Webster to
elections. We reaffirm the historic have stuins on them analyzed.
position of our party in this regard and The coat, introduced in evidence,
l'avor a continuance of that wise provl. showed three white marks.
sion of the federal constitution which! It was brought out that the coat
vests ln the several states of the was not shown to Dr. Webster at the
union the powers to prescribe th« coroner's inquest.
Qualifications of their electors, which "I formed my opinion at that time,"
said quoted provisions was voted down said Dr. Webster, "that death was due
Suffrage Debated.
.v.- r. fv.
Westgatc
fho rlofonaa nf Will Plrn^t charged with .. ,,
•,,v- «... niMsu nn rue* J•
the murder of Marian Lambert, was
brought out today when cross exami
nation of Dr. Ralph W. Webster, toxl
cologist. waa resumed by Attorney
Ralph F. Potter, of the defense.
Mr. Pbtter adduced that nearly three
aa 1U uuicu jiiWTioiviia uicu uuwu Sfllu Ur vv cusii,i ii»«c ucain was *«a c« »i_ •... __ ft#
In said committee by a vote of 2S to 17, to cyanide of potassium poison, to the fj'
and we hereby tender said provisions powder on the girl's hand and on the! this amount $5,7&3 was contributed, his
as a minority report and ask its adop- stomach content."
tlon by this convention.
JOB FOR WILSON IF BEATEN.
Governor Ferguson, of Texas pre
sented the report under an agreement May Be Next President of Northwest- Cadet Commander Dead,
for thirty mintes' debate on each side. I am University. I West Point, N. Y.. June 16.—Lieut.-
Governor Ferguson declared he en- Chicago. Juno 16.—The board of!Col. Morton F. Smith, commandant of
dorsed the state rights amendment. trustees df Northwestern University cadets at the United States military
"The majority plank is not the con- will take under consideration the name academy, died at his headquarters here
viction of the democratic party," he
said, "and in the desire' to secure a
little political advantage this smrren-
Aviator Art Smith Irtjured,^,^
Tokio, June ifi.—-4 disyatcb to tne
Hochi Shlmbun from Sapporo Hok
kaido says that Art Smith", the Amer
ican aviator, has broken his 1falling! der of democratic principles Is made." nation of Abram W. Harris, should tne: ant of cadets since April J, 1S14. By
The Texas governor pleaded in the former fall of re-election next fall,
aside old and
£nvintion not to lay This fact was made public yester-
Vi\z'..L "V...
''i-iili
J..-.
.•
A
it a
NEWS OF THE DAY
T.-R. BULLETIN.
The W*ath««\
Sun rises June 17 at 4:28 sets at
.d
Iowa Partly cloudy tonigK
Saturday probably showers &
portion tonight. js
PAGE ONE.
Telegraphic News:
Platform Brief on Stiff pf
Disposed of ln Twen» ordii.
Planks on Mexico ary &'-r
Nominations Made t?t£ht Session.
Delegate Attacks HitdTies.
Austrians Evacuate Czernowlts.
PAGES TWO, THREE AND FOUR.
Iowa News:
Candldatlng Costly.
Mansfield Must Be Extradited.
Three Iowa Fatalities.
Prize Essay on Good Roads.
Memorial Home For Officer's Widow.
War on Hog Cholera.
PAGE FIVE.
Story:
The City of Numbered Days.
PAGE SIX.
Editorial:
Oet Action on Villisca Case.
What Would Meredith Do?
Picking at Thorne.
Topics and Iowa Opinion.
PAGE SEVEN.
General News:
Two Issu«.'SlMay Defeat Democrats.
Sufi'rage and Mexico Confront Demo
crats.
PAGES EIGHT, NINE, TEN, ELEVEN,
City:
Stale Labor Convent ion Knds.
Votes Not to Mix ln Politics.
Ansons Trim Celts 15 to
Oilman Woman Attempts Life.
Miss Mobcrip to Wed.
General and Brief City News.
PAGE TWELVE.
srkets and General:
Wheat Hears Aided.
Seaboard Demand For Corn.
Cattle Steady.
Hogs Go Higher.
Welliver Proposes Movie Conventions
day by a member of the board of
trustees, who refused to allow his
name to lie made piibllc.
"A letter is now In the hands of the
hoard of trustees." said this official,
"suggesting Mr. Wilson's name. Of
course, nothing will be done if Mr. Wil
son should le re-elected.
"Once before President Wilson su
ceedtd Dr. Harris as an educator
In 18S8 the latter resigned as instructor
of history at the Ohio Wesleyan Uni
versity, and Mr. Wilson tilled the va
cancy, coming from Bryn Mavr."
Both Business Manager William A.
Dyche and Frank P. Crandon. sec
retary of the board of trustees, denied
that Colonel Roosevelt's name has been
considered.
At the same time they caused sur
prise when they said that they Knew
of no existing agreement whereby for
mer President Harris Is to receive an
annuity of $3,500 a year, ln spite of
their assertions the retiring head re
pented that it was pit such a mnilltion
that he had accepted the place u-n
years ago.
WINDSTORM KILLS TWO MEN.
Residents Lose LWes When
the Barn Falls
Westgatc, June 16.—While helping at
barn raising on the I^ockwood farm,
seven miles southwest of here, Will'
Kauten md Charles Maley were killed
by the born frame which was blown
down by a sudden wind.
They were raising the frame when
the accident occurred.
ASK REQUISITION FOR
RETURN OF MANSFIELD
Montgomery County Official Petitions
Governor Clarke For .Paper# to
Bring Ax Murder Suspect Back to
Iowa For Trial,
Pes Moines, June 16.—O. T. Gillett.
county attorney for Montgomery coun
ty, came to Des Moines today to pe
tition Governor Clarke to Issue reriuisi
t'on papers for the return to Iowa of
William Mansfield, held at Kansas
City, s-ispected of complicity In the
murder of the .Moore family at Villisca
ln 1912.
Oillett said It probably be a week
before Mansfield Is given into hi* cus
tody.
BUSINESS MEN HELP.
Project of Rebuilding Penn College
Gets $38,000 Boost.
Oskaloosa. June 16.—Business men
of the city today subscribed $3S.0flft to
the rebuilding of Penn College which
was destroyed by fire May 27. An
nouncement of the subscription was
!imade
following a meeting of the busi
net's men and thr coiirii? r.~!c:a!s. A
fund $150,000 Is needed to replace
the destroyed school buildings.
COST HARDING $10,356
TO BE NOMINATED
Half of Campaign Expense* Contribut
ed by Others, Father and Father-jn
law Being Liberal Contributor*—
Cosson Spends $3,581.28.
Special to Times-Republican.
Des Moines, June 16.—Harding spent
father. W. H. Harding, of Sibley, giv
ing *1.000 and his father-in-law giv
ing $1,000. Cosson spent $3,581.38.
of Woodrow Wilson as a possible caWril- today after a brief illness. He was born
date to fill the presidency xf that in- on July SO. 1872.
stltutlon made vacant thru the reslg -1 Colonel Smith has been a command-
virtue of that appointment he acquired
tue
rrr-- ||i. 4^'^"
the rank of lieutenant colonel*. 4
^ustrians Reported to Hare
Evacuated Czernowitz
to Russians.
MANY CITIZENS
HELD AS PRISONERS
Residents of City Mad* to Aooompany
Austrian* in Retreat—Rolling Stook
The capture of an additional 100
officers and 14,000 men was announced
today by the war office.
German Assaults Fail.
Paris, Juno IS.—Powerful German
attacks made last night on French
positions southeast of Thiaumont farm
broke down under the French machine
gun and infantry fire, according to to
day's war office statement.
The statement said the Germana
began their assault at S o'clock in the
evening on the right hank of t,h®
Meuse. At the same time another-at
tack was launched on iCalllette wood.
All attacks were repulsed.
The trench captured by the French
yesterday on the southern slope of
Dead Man Hill was also the object of
several German counter attacks, all of
which failed.
It was announced that the nuxrtber
of prisoners taken by the French In
the capture of the trench was five
officers and 1 S0( soldiers.
Frenoh Attacks Uneuooesiful.
•Berlin, via London. June W.—T*0
attacks delivered by the French yes
terday on the German line., on the
southern slope of Dead Msn Hill, wore
unsuccessful, the wafr office announced
today. 1
Italians Repulse Austrian*.
Rom«\ via Ixndon. June 16—Auirtro*
Hungarian troops estimated to num
ber 18.000. attacked in dense forma
tion the Italian positions on the Aslago
plateau yesterday, but w^ro repulsed
leaving piles of corpses before the
Italian .trenches. say» an official state
ment today.
Bulgarians Quitting Greece.
Athens, via I^ondtin, June lfi.—-It was
reported ln Athens todnj* that the
Bulgarians were withdrawing the ma
jority of their forces from Salonlkl to
the Roumanian frontier.
Food Riot* in Rotterdam.
Amsterdam, via London, June 16.—
Disturbances at Rotterdam by demon
strators agnlnst the high price of food
were repented hut night, especially in
the neighborhood of the town hall.
There was some stone throwing.
Jap Gun* Effective.
Ixindon. Jun«' 16.—A dispatch to the
Central News from Petrograd says that
imu-h of the effectiveness of the Rus
sian artillery in their great C.aliclan
drive Is due .to the use of big Japanese
guns. These guns are saJd to be more
powerful than any that the Russians
have had heretofore and are charged^
with shells filled with a new explosive,
the destructive power of which Is ter
rific.
KITCHENER DOWN WITH SHIP.
Details of Sinking of Hampshire Mads
Public by Survivor.
London. June 16.—Details of some of
the Incidents on board the British crui
ser Hampshire just before it sank oft
the Orkneys last week, causing the
death of Field Marshal Earl Kitchener,
among many others. are# given in an
official statement issued last night.
"As the men were going to their sta
tions before abandoning the ship hori
Kitchener, accompanied by a naval
officer, appeared," says a survivor.
"The latter said: 'Make way for Lord
Kitchener.' Both ascended to the quar
ter deck.
"The captain called Txird Kitchener
to the forebrldge, near where the cap
tain'? boat was hoisted. The captain
also called I»ord Kitchener to enter the
boat. It Is unknown if Lord Kitchener
entered it or what happened' to any
boat."
Wife Murderer Hanged.
Rawlins. Wyo., June 16. WJIlard
Flanders, convicted wife murderer, was
hanged at the state penitentiary to
day. The drop fell at 2:54. He was
pronounced dead at 3:07:20.
Flanders was awakened from a
sound sleep at 2:50 and taken by War
den Alston direct to the death hous».
"This Is a poor place to do any talk
ing," he replied quietly when asked
he had anything to say.
Apparently Indifferent to hia fate, he
refused ministerial consolation and en
tered the death house, head erect, cool,
collected.
The drop of four feet broke his neck.
The condemned maiT" ate a hearty
supper last night and spent the even
ing absorbed ln a magazine until 10:45,
be turned out his light and re
tired. "j ,,
®M
Weather For Iowa:
Cloudy Saturday
.®»«fW*S J# J§»*
NUMBER 144
Sent to llakanl and Trainloada of
Wounded 'Diapatohed to Dornavatra
—German Assaults on Frenoh Poai*
tion* Near Thiaumont Fad.
Petrograd, June —Details of the
reported evacuation of Czernowitz by
the Austrians are given in a dispatch
from Bukowlna, reoelved by tho
scmi-official Petrograd News Agency.
it is said that before abandoning the
city the Austrian authorities arrested
a number uf persons who were forced
to accompany the retreating troops.
The railroad rolling stfock waa sent
to Ilskani. Trainloads of wounded
were dispatched to Dornavatra,
seventy-seven miles southwest of
Czernowitz.
V-
---wfe
'4
1
