h. I
' ill I
A i'W. ill
tftcoltt
0u I
f
VOLUME 24
TOLEDO, LINCOLN COUNTY, OREGON, FRIDAY, JUNE 16,1916
NUMBER 17
COUNTY NEWS
News of each Community Gathered each
week by Our Rustling Associate Editors
njuntp
41 . K
-good. This coast road will be
will
NEWPORT
The Hard Times Dance given
by the Rod and Gun Club Satur
day evening was well attended .
ley last Monday where he
work this summer.
H. 0. Boynton made a flying
trip to-Eddyville last Tuesday.
Our school closed the 8th of
this month, one of the most
sucessfuL terms we have had
for a numlie1" of years the pu-
tapped by four good roads from
the Valley, viz, Grand Ronde to
Salmon River from Polk county
to Siletz, Yaquina River to New
port. Alsea to Waldport and Ya
chat3 to Ocean View. Soon
and one Of the mo3t pleasant one can eo bv automobiles, and
dances the Club has ever given, wagons all over the country and phs all passed their grades with
Some fifty couples were present Win never be out of- the reach ! good standing and all feel
representing not oniy tne young 0f pure air, pure water and al
people of the city but the country wayg in tbe mldst of some of the
as well, some 10 or 15 people finest scenery in the world both,
came from Yaquina. Some say by land and water,
the dance is evil but like every- ; The Thlrty-Jifth Annual En
thing else it is only made so by campment of G. A. R. of the De
Its abuse. The' bear hug, the partment of Oregon assembled
turkey trot and the tango dance at Eugene on Wednesday, June
Is not included in decent dancing. 14th, 1916 and will continue to
People dance for pleasure, for the 16th, to-day. Among those : Dialogue A joker in disgrace,
recreation and for graceful form who attended from Newport are: Recitation ' .'iver Colby.
01 motion, me pleasure is en- cant. R. A. Bensell and wif e. Uecltatlon J Senny Perrv.
Mrs. Dave Harding. Mr. Amos ' Song Marie ;e Cllne.
Kisor, Mr. and Mrs. Willis Wag- 1 Recitation .lames Perry,
ner, Miss Anna Matthews and Dialogue K -ual difficulties.
Dr. Carter. I Song by t ue boys.
0 I Recitation Myrtle Cllne.
pleased with the years work.
Professor John Miller has done
hi3 work well and satisfactory
to all interested and we are all
pleased to know that our school
board have elected Mr. Miller
to teach our school next year.
The prograri v?s as follows:
Flag Song upper grades.
Bayvlew was a visitor in this . prof. R. E. Wood of Orton was NEW STEAMER
vicinity iiiesaay.
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Huntsucker
and children were Oyserville
callers Tuesday.
- G. E. Lewis made a business
trip to Waldport one day last
week.
here Saturday and Sunday.
W. N. Cook made a trip over
to Harlan a few days ago.
I Mrs. Emma Wood Is B)endlng
a few days in Toledo
with Mrs. U. G. Hart.
FOR TOLEDO
Elsewhere in this issue will be
found the ad of the Elmore Co.,
who have nut their
visiting .Sue H. Elmore on the Portland
iweao run. This is a fin hnnt
Th Fourth Annual Rtrnu.--! with ni, " " " '
A number of young people of - berry Festival will be held at 'as well as freight and next to tha
upper Beaver, Poole Slough and pivprRid Fnit v nn Rm.dav 'R, a li.,i V10 l?e
Oystervllle spent Sunday on Bea- jUne 18th. Everybody invited to largest boat -r .Jle
attend. I The Elmore Will Ipnvo Pnrlnnj
each Monday and will make this
port on a weekly schedule. C.
hanced by the strains of cheer
ing music. The dance to be
pleasurable demands the asso
ciation of the sexes but this as
sociation is no more evil than a ;
Song Hellen Salisbury.
Recitation Lamont Colby.
Song by tr ' nchcol.
The proprarv was well eiven and
was a succo .i in every way. turned Sunday evening,
ver Creek.
Pete Peterson went to Oyster- !
vllle Sunday evening returning
Monday. 1 m
0 ,
HARLAN
POOLE SLOUCH
;K. Crosno I3 the local agent for
e company.
Mrs. Fred Shaw went to Al- tt n nr,, a '
,w sr,Aa ai n J - "oynton is down from
bany Sunday evening on the ex- Eddyvil'le today
rnra nn train I
Mr. ana Mrs. Thos. Barker 1 I. R. Payne is shearing sheep
and daughters, Hazel and Lola, this week assisted by Frank Mul-
went to Toledo Saturday. Miss
Inez Weaver accompanied thorn
and went on to Chitwood to see
her folks, Mr. and Mrs. F. R.
Weaver.
John Bowers of Beaver OppV
is in the city today.
Mrs. Hester Coovert of Ona is
a county seat visitor today.
We understand that Maurice
Andersen has told Mrs. J. li
Then came the dinner which
was fine and was enjoyed by all.
After dinner all went to the
. Wakefield base ball ground to
I see the ball . inies. First Little
Elk school played Turn. Turn
I school endin.; with a score and
stroll on the beach. It 13 natu
way to have the sexes associate ' Diveoemc
together. The Indians In the old I KivtK&iut
fashioned way don't dance with j . ,
the women because It creates Quite a number of Riverside
Jealousy. Each Indian man and people attended the "fair" dance
woman danced to themselves, at B. F. Grants Friday night,
and they seemed to enjoy it just J. R. Daniel made a business
as well, but the white man don't trip to Philomath Friday, return
dance that way; it would be no ing Saturday,
pleasure to them. Wo' need 1 R. A. Ulhnan is busy hauling
haahhftil rnnrca inn n n1 an-man. llin.hpr this wpplr
ment and when the dance Is The roads are in good condi-lthen came t! c real fun the Im
properly conducted there is no tion now from here to Elk City; tie Elk school and the married
harm done. If you wish to live a there has been one or two men played. I am not going to
long time, be cheerful; go in autos and a Ford over them j tell all that happened for it
good company where people en- lately. J would be impossible for one to
joy themselves and keep awayi A large portion of Riverside .see all that really did happen but
from cross, grouchy persons; took in the ball game at Eik after ten inincs were played
and cultivate sociability and re- City Sunday; Elk City vs. Nor- J the score eUx.d 13 to 14 In favor
finement. Stop dancing at mid- tons. . 1 of the niai rir J boys.lt was some-
night; go home .get a good sleep Mr . and Mre. J. L. Fischer thing awfvl lor some of the men
and you will feel alright the visitea b. 11. Langs of Bear havn t done any thing since
next day. - creek bunday.
A County Sunday School Con-' Clifford McDonell of Harlan
ventlon was held at Newport was thru here Friday and Sat
Saturday under the auspices of urday, hauling lumber from the
Presbyteran Church. The at- Salado milL
tendance was not large but the R- L. Calkins killed a large
interest was good. Those who wild cat Monday.
failed to come missed a rare ! - 0-
treat. Rev. Charles A. Phipps,
it. . ri i t . 1
me great ounuay ocnooi woriter WEST VADIUM A
j Mr. and Mrs. C. Myers visited
vany. I
P. II. Martin attended the ,
graduating everjeises of the Cor
vallia High School June 2d.
Lincoln Countv was ronrflfipntprl Steele a new Chevinlpt rnr
George Campbell came over ;n the graduating class by Misses Mrs. Sparks, postmistress at
SwKSSfeX: r a Trapp and Dorothy 'Mar" .2?S2Le' 18 a county 8eat
t r ... 1 w !
UTO ohijiucu auu ouno. uc ic- jurs. snutn Aiiison came over
Take It all
well spent.
in all it was a day
ONA
Christina and Peter Peterson
were in our
evening going on over to the
bay where they spent the night
with their grandmother, Mrs.
Hunstucker.
A party of young folks went to
Upper Beaver Sunday. Those
the
the
PlVHiiilant T. r Vnnl,
on Friday's stage to visit home 'NrnRhv'ii ,..- ,t
na I'cter 1'eterson fn.0 tfQ, ,i i . u m
vicinity Saturday at the residence of Mr. and Mrs. I l. .
t nn ovpr to tho t- v r ueo. liouges was vlown from
'Miss Celeste Martin of Colo-!f1fia?11vA'ednlfBdy wcora,I,8 via
rado is visiting her brother, P. H. ,th? MlU Creek cut"off
Martin and family. L-'3ter Waugh has commenced
Huran Briggs who Is work- he erection of his new Market
Ine 'n Portland wi-IIpo har-U building on Hill street. C. W.
going were misses uara uoone, that he is having the time of his ua' 18 U01nS the work,
Messers. Johnny Emo'scn, Hen
ry'Shermer, Jhas. Brown, Peter
Peterson, and Leo Shermer.
Every one has been taking ad
vantage of the fine day3 and go
ing In swimming.
H. H. Cook editor of the Wald
port Watchman was in this vicin.
itv 1.1 fit u-ppIt
aim organizer, was present anu ....... Mr. and Ms C.
cravp Bornp'vprv nhlp nddiPRnpa
on religious and Sunday school 1 Leland Wright, Jesse Reeder,
work. . Ira Branch and R. A. Miller at-
Flag Day was duly observed tended the Socialist Convention
by the people of Newport. A at Toledo Friday,
erood nrocrani was rpndprpd tho i Mr- and Mrs. Lloyd Parks and
children taking the most active 80n were m frow Beaver Creek 1
part. The oration of Rev. E. T. , 1 ue,suay.
Simpson was eloquent and pa- Notices are out announcing a
triotic. The day was fine and school election to be held on
everybody was out to enjoy the une nineteenth, nineteen hun
day. dred sixteen in school district
The nominations at Chicago Stv n 0U' Unco,n
gives good satisfaction all over H'.f (?r e purpose
the county. Hughes and Fair- f nn. Lf e f,low1nS offlcers
banks are perhaps the strongest di"Cnt0r,tO ?erve thx&s
men that could have been put up. Rnd one clerk t0 -orve on5
Neither one sought the office ,.',,,, wt, , . mci,
they were nominated by the free ! ,Jt5"d J W 1 d A m'
will of the great Convention rep- lJ1 to Toledo on bncs8
resenting the best talent In the i iT yT , ,
Republican Party. Thev both l..John Ianlon. niade a trip to
.his ranch on Beaver Creek the
last of the ve3k. '
have accepted the great trust
sweeping majorities. The pussy acOI !?a,n-
foot watchful waiting policy will S, .S,, da"ser't tric
c nr. i)n,,..,oit 1 .ni V.cre visiting in West Yaquina
first of the
aquina
Mrs.
port the ticket and the progres-' I J"" , eK" ,,rs;
sives will fall In line and help iV!," ,omcr,y a res,dent
elect the ticket. Harmony every i
where: nothing to klok nhont t
Mr, and Mr3. F. S. Bell and
The star of America's prosperity "f' .f "l 1 auI-
-n iin.i tn ' (Minn., for a visit with Mr. and
vr.ii uctjiii iu nue liftum, conn- : ;ra
11414 IVOIVICU U11U lUQ
country will again prosper as it
never prospered before. We be
lieve Lincoln County will share
In this prosperity and Oregon l
Viivo linrna nn cminll nn Im 1
HVIIl lli V attrf iiw DtilUU ttl b 111
bringing this thing about.
The work on the tram way
and docks at South Beach will
Joe Lissy of Beaver Cre.?k.
John Coovert was a Wcct Ya
quina visitor Tuesday.
o
LITTLE ELK
Hoeing and cultivating seems
to be the order of the dav in
be commenced at an early date, this vicinity.
The contract is let to Clarence j Kenneth Loudon returned
Altree who has had much ex-, home from Woodburn, Oregon,
perlencc In this kind of work, last week where he attended
The contract price of $3,000 is school, he passed his grade with
considered to be very reasonable ,high standing,
for the amount of work to be j Mr. and Mrs. Ormell Stand
done, ard of Portland are Visiting rcl
The road on Bald Mounta'n Is atlves and friends here this week,
already going on. This is the Mrs. Salisbury and daughter,
heaviest piece of grading ever Ilellen went to Portland last
done In the county, much of It .Wednesday to visit husband and
through solid basaltic rock. The father for two or three weeks,
contract price is $2,240. The j Bert Willoughby and S. T.
crade will be five per cent. The Loudon attended Sunday school
contract was let to Turbine and nnd Church at Eddyville last
Walker. This contract is said to
bo low also. When this road Is
completed up the coact to Siletz
Bay it will be one of the finest
scenic roads In Oregon. The
road from Sluslaw will be Just as
Sunday.
George Colby spent the week
end with his family here last
week, he Is working in the Val
ley near Dallas.
Frank Casldy went to the Val-
at the Ohmart home Sunday,
Professor Snuffer of Tilla
ook and Mr. Curry of Toledo
were visitors at the Commons'
ranch last week.
Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Selby went
to Newport Thursday returning
nome Friday.
The Helping Hand Club met
at the home ef Mrs. C. M. Myers
Saturday afternoon and a very
enjoyable afternoon was had.
The usual committees reported.
Eleven members were present,
also two guests, Mrs. L. L. Parks
of Ona and Mrs. Myrtle Ball of
St. Paul, Minn. The next meet
ing will be at the home of Mrs.
L M. Commons, July 8th.
E. L. McFarland of South
Beaver visited J. M. Bowers of
Upper Beaver, Sunday.
Mr. and Mrs. Ball and son of
St. Paul. Minn, are visiting Mrs.
Ball's sister, Mrs. Joe Liasy, of
this place.
Mrs. L. M. Commons and sons
Lloyd and Fred and Mrs. Faye
Wolferspergcr and children were
at Waldport Wednesday having
some dental work done.
A. II. Phel'-s and son, Clifford,
made a busi-iess trip to Wald
port Wedne: day.
o
UPPER BEAVER
Mr. and Mrs. H. G. Rhoades
and children and Mr. and Mrs. G.
E. Lewis and mother spent a
very pleusant day Thursday on
the beach at Newport.
Peter Peterson made a trip to
Poole Slough Friday.
Mi3ses Evalina and Hester
Peterson called on MIbscs Jessie
and Paulino Vancll Thursday.
. Peter and MIhs Christine Pet
erson visited Saturday night at
their grandr.ioiher's, Mrs. Dora
Huntsucker of Oyster City. .
J. M. Hovers and J. C. Hunt
sucker made a business trip to
Toledo Sutvrday.
Mr. and Airs. II. G. Rhoades
and children spent Sunday visit
ing Mrs. Rhoades' mother, Mrs.
McClaughry of Toledo.
Mrs. A. Peterson and son, Pete
and Perry Vnncll were Newport
visitors Tuesday.
Mrs. Frank Huntsucker of
me. i ueo. eiDy, one or tne pros-
Mrs. H. W. Jacobs is visiting perous farmers of the ' Beaver
in Toledo. Creek country is a county seat
Crops In this vicinity are look- visitor today.
!ng very well in spite of the cold 1 David Balrd arrived last even-
we,aMh,fr, , , lng f-rom Moreland, Kansas,
Mrs. Emy Campbell and sons , " , LZT, JC' T?1U??:?
neuabLeriptS received this 5 A K .lt6rB ame Ver fr0IQ
week are W. G. Slyker. box 1017, Portland altended 8cho1 1,1 ,Tur,ner this week on hi3 motor
Great Falls. Mont.: Gust Ketola. , Ton. . , . cycle for a visit with friends.
' , .iiiiiii v n i i i iNi in in n in iroir i
Siletz; August Hodes. Carlton. v.flit,nir ftt hmn. nf t n '0L,aruniun8 a D: ranch
-- i urner.
Mr. Mitchler, who has been in ' .,18 P"ing n:s
Work of making the survey
and obtaining the right of way
for the electric line from Toledo
I en . ,u-7,uei rT- , 0 very poor health during the win-!,a'u"He ,1VJUS IA,rnoId
to Siletz Is golog raplaiy fore-.tw M improved eouie but his rIs ? h?.w?rk: Wt,th,nk lt
ward. It Is thought the sun'ey eve BiEht i still verv noor wou,d hel3 the looks of tlle town
will be completed this coming , J h 8 0 e y poor' if we would all "Get the Habit".
An excellent graae is De- ! wf,i,n plnnV an(i dineh.
WINANT ter dI'arted 'or Ilillsboro yes-
terday morning for a visit with
.Mr. and Mm .1 fr li.mir Co,.
Mrs John Sugg and son re- has been at Ilillab'oro for some
week
Ing obtained.
Remember the school election
next Monday at 1 P. M.
o
ORTON
Carl Summers and Joe Kekua
turned from Portland Tuesday
evening.
I Mrs. Dora Huntsucker was
called to Newport Sunday to the
bedside of her daughter Mrs. M.
c.c wi nu n me roau camp, ,waschsmuth who is verv 111. It
Sunday to visit their folks, tak-lg reported that Mr. and Mrs.
Ing back with them Fredrick jWaschsmuth will depart for Cal
Simmons, who also will join the ifornla as soon as she is able.
Cr1W,ii t, Li , I Quite a few people from here
William Porter bought four!are picking berries at Peter
cows last week from Grant King Schenners.
oi snetz.
Mr. Frazer the store keeper,
and Wolverton Orton made a
trip to Toledo Monday on bus!
ness.
Ned Evans was in Toledo and
Newport Monday and Tuesday
on business.
Frank Gunn bought a billy
goat of Ned Evans
Mr. Gunn beng In the goat busi- 'p0ter Shermer home on Poole
Miss Alma Boone returned
home from Yaquina Monday
where she has been working In
the restaurant.
A. great number of young
folks around here enjo)'ed a pic
nic at Heaver creeK Sun.lny,
time.
Our Job department Is busy
getting out posters for a big cel
ebration to be held at Nashville
the Fourth. A big time is prom
ised and a cordial Invitation ex
tended to all.
John Anderson, the fisherman,
will start salting down herring
as soon as he receives his sup
plies. He guarrantees them to
be sanitary and good. Those
wishing to be supplied address
him -at Toledo.
J. George Johnson of Eddy
ville Is a county seat visitor to-
,day. Mr. Johnson is one of the
progressive farmers of the Eddy.
Mrs. M. G. Shermer and (laugh- vin dirir.t n,i i,
la tVdav fr8adi"le and Grace 'a bill for Ruraf Credits or the
last iri(iay , .Knudson spent Sunday at the farmers
ness
J. C. Kurtichanov and Leonard
Evans was at Siletz Sunday to
play ball.
The Upper Farm base ball
team played a game with the Si
letz nine Sunday and was beaten .her daughter, Mrs. Nancy John
OA IT fl-1 . 1 1 . 1 i I . . '
4.u iu o. me niMuiHi was in au son Tuesday.
snape, just wait nnt:i siletz
! I . .
Slough. .A. I. Peterson, the rustling
Mrs. Joseph Koberts and ,Ford agent' has Jllst received ono
daughter, Rena, came In from of tnu ,at08t aIld n'st up to date
RoRcburg Thursday. They will fUHoi.ne pumps aim 13 installing
make about a three weeks visit.
Mrs. Joseph Blower visited
conies up to Orton, they will see
their finish.
The teams of Bill Porter and
Ned Evans are hauling lumber
from the Siletz mill this week,
for the school house that Is to be
built in dlst. G'J.
A meeting of thr Hen's Club
of Orton was held at the home of
Mrs. P. II. Elting last Wednes
day, about eight ladies were
present. The object of the Club
is not yet fully known.
Mrs. L. Hoover of Toledo and
Willie Brown of Siletz are visit
ing Mr. nnd Mrs. Depoe this
week.
Mr. and MrB. Miller Collins
were living. at Siletz this spring
to put In some garden but now
are staying with John Ponsce.
o '
CHITWOOD .
lt Just north of the hardware
store. We. are informed that
Mr. Peterson expects to have
freo air, for the convciifcnoo of
autolsts, In the near future.
People who deslte to
use
Geo. T. Smith mads p trip to
Toledo Friday.
NOTICE TO CONTRACTORS
Jiiouounty court oj Lincoln water ior BprniKiing purposes
County, Oregon, will receive should make arrangements with
sealed bids for building 1 , mlh-n ,tlie Water Commissioner or Ro
of road connecting the Schooner coer. Sprinkling fee for one
Creek and Salmon River roads, 't Is $3 for the Summer. Also
In Sections 10 and 15 Township. 1x up your leaky faucets, etc.
7 South Range 10 West of the b there will be no waste of
Wlllnnietto Meridian. All bids to i water during the dry season. A
be In accordance with the plans 'little preparation now will pre
furnlshed by the County Rond Vent a shortage of water later
Master, and must bo filed with on.
the County Clerk on or before
9 o'clock A. M. July Cth. 191(i.
R. H. Howell,
County Chirk.
o
M'ss Sara Crahen returned
the first of the week from a visit
to the Roso Festival.
Newt Center returned Satur
day evening from Eugene where ranch
he Is a Btudent at the Unlvcr-1 consideration valued at $56000
sity- i as roiiows: nve dwellings and a
Mrs. Spooner and children re- brick business block at Roseburg
turned Wednesday evening from ,and $19000 In notes and mort-
We are In receipt of a letter
from R. N. Warnock, the real
estate man, this week In which
he Informs us or a deal which he .
has just put through at Nortons.
Bob having sold and trnded the
1400 acre ranch of A. J. Warnock
nt Nortons to W. A. Taylor of
nosemirg. in exchange for the
Mr. Warnock received
a visit at Summit.
gages.
