r : :
J -. ; v
V
-11 A LIVE TOV7N
:z, li.:a cc.77, i ...7 ; r.co, Friday, j is, is: j.
nvx czsra Tta; coin
c:.-.:::3K.t::.;C:.:;:a
:::.:ip.il..
i
ter cf a K:t:l Arts C.3 if
Cy of Raw Yerk
The vast impolnnce of New Mexico
as a gnat mining state is becoming
mora and mora apparent with each
passing month.
On a very important fact in this
connection was the visit to Deming by
Franeia E. Nicholas, Ph. D., noted
geologist, explorer, traveler, prom
inent member of tbe Notiounl Arts
Club of New York City.
He came to confer with W. Rogers
Wade, mining engineer in charge, of
the Atnra properties and a wen
known member of .American Institute
. ... ... ... I . , V
oi Mining engineers, -w
The sitaation was gone over thor
onghly and Mr. Wade was made state
warden of the New Mea'nm organis
nlion, inclading the local chapter.
The Chamber of Mines has for it
object, the bringing together of cap-
ital and legitimate mining industries,
All fake projects are eliminated and
useless adjectives cut out of reports
of properties.
Tbe fact that Luna county mining
internets are being brought to the at
tention of tho big national bodies, is
a good thing for southern New Mex
ico. I'pon receipt of additional instruc
tions from Washington, Mr. Wnde
will perfect Die state and local or
ganisations, with tho end in view that
large capital may be intelligently
attracted to New Mexico's vast min
eral resources.
Judge Rogers tied a nuptial knot,
last Friday for Fred E. Merchon and
Miss Ada E. Voight, of Animns.
Itui'k Bounds and fnniily, Mr. mid
Mrs. Young Bound, and their guests,
Mr. and Mrs. John Morine, of Van
Horn, Texas, visited Columbus and
the army camp yesterday. They
find a. nice visit with the Deming hoys
nnd report things lovely.
Jns. A. Rlaincy, assistant secre
tary of the Southwestern Surety Co.,
of St. Lonis, was in the city Tues
day.
Waller I. Runnel mill fnniily will
leave in n dny or so for a two month's
niitii tour through New Mexico, Col
ormlo, nnd Missouri.
r 7t ;zat-fa" z:zt
of t i -::: of c -.a n a
'j n-xizi n-'.c-t of ta Cat
U It r:.-ir faroe. Hi. L.ce went
to Lis hoxe, his wi"e bii-j alone, the
four cL.ireu being out for ttt after
noon, he stepped into another room
and soon the report of a shot gun
rang oat and his body, bathed in
blood, was discovered by his wife.
Jucta Rogers, J. H. Tracy, 8. B.
Johnson, W. P. Anderson, Chas.
Baton, A. J. Hutehinson and Jack
Head as coroner's jury, who inves
tignted conditions and reported sui
eida.
Tbe funeral waa held from Rawson
chapel Monday afternoon, Rev, 8. R.
MoClure officiating as clergyman
CIcj, C3 ki erj tl fci
Colonel 8.t.: and C. M. Cotton Pal
ting Hit C.'j Prtporiy In tho Olv.
Idond Paying Clati
Rwuka to too Basset
"The nomination of Hughes is a re
buke to the machine," Ralph C. Ely,
chairman of the Republican state
committee, yesterday wired to A. W,
Beckner, auditor of tbe New Mexico
Central railway.
Mr. Ely attended the Republican
national convention and left Chicago
yesterday for his old home at Alma,
Mich., where his ancle, Oarritt Ward,
died Saturday. Mrs. Ely is with her
husband. They had not intended to
Mit Alma until after a trip to Erie,
I
For the past four decades, Col. P,
R. Smith has been engaged in putting
over gigantic mining propositions
During that period he hns examined
at least 900 properties and has se
leeted from this vast nunilier, seven
groups of mines, six of which are big
payers today. These include some of
the big properties like Burro Moun
tain and Chemung, now owned by the
('helps-Dodge Co., Shannon, Com
nionwealth, etc,
But in Colonel Smith's judgment,
the Sun Miguel iibiimlion is the
most attractive proposition that has
ever come his wav.
The proiHtrty is located about 76
miles north of Albuquerque in Son
's., nnd Schnectady, N. Y. where Mr.
Ely will confer with General EIectri"l,0V?. .(,.
The development work consists oi
about 3000 feet, tV grentest depth
attained being 70 fecX and the mine
hns produced over 4000 tous of cop
ier ore, which according to the smel
ter returns average .17','j eonnei
mid according to tho government re
officials in reference to motor car
for the New Mexico Central. They
will go east from Alma this week.
Simla Fe Now Mexican.
JnlAiwxuCF CF TliE ItvMvrlE
H....3 IJ30 N KJB "''KilE
Last Year E3.C00 Cant of Finest
Flavored Tomatoes In the World
Wert Put up and Sold; Output Will
Be to 733 This Year.
Jndse Neblett Sentences Three
Judge Colin Nehlott came down
from &Hpn City, Wednesday evening
for the purpose of holding court and
allowing Jack Taylor and Jim Mnr
phy to plead guilty to the larceny of
Jim Hairs car. Sheriff Simpson and
deputy sheriff Buck Chadborn caught
the culprits near Coumbns, red-handed,
hence thleir plea of guilty to the
information prepared by District at
torney Waddill. They drew twelve
months each at Santa Fo. J. E.
Mitchell, a Columbus bootlegger,
plead guilty and got 00 days on Jim
Diendonne's ronrt bouse lawn.
Afr. Geo. Micklejnhn of Long Bench
dropped off the train last Friday to
call on his former "nnwkeye" chum,
Prof. J. F. Doderer. They were
boys together in Iowa. Mr. Mickte
john is a capitalist and while hfe
investigated the loaning of money on
Mimbres Valley real estate.
Kjrrty-C.'cp
Judge Rogers tied a knot for Ben
T. Murray of Fort Bayard and Miss
Ethel Bishop of Tomhold, Texas.
E. D. Osborn, head of the Hondale
canning factory gave some very in
teresting facts to the Graphic about
the important enterprise so success
fully carried out bv himself and sons
nnd Dr. Bowon. Last year thev nut
i and sold 2.10.000 cans of the fnm
us Deming and Hondale brands of
imntoes, recognised by dealers and
patrons to be the finest flavored to
miitoes in the United States. This
year they ore enlarging the factory
to put up 000,000 to 700,000 cans of
the siinie brand.
Everything is done in the most san
itary manner, and the new factory,
now being erected, will eontnin among
other things, a labeling machine that
will slip through 40,000 per dny.
Tho E. I, ft S. W. is puling in a
spccinl siding to accomodate the big
enterprise.
Ho, for the County Fair
At a board of director's meeting of
the Chamber of Commerce last Tues
dny night is was unanimously voted
Ihnt Luna county should have a fair lit ml the Chemung, now owned bv the
work was done copper whs only worth
from 8'2 to 10 cents n imiind. All
ore under 15 was thrown on the
dump, being too low of grade for
shipment, but very valuable now.
One leaser with n small force, took
out about 2004 Ions of this higu
grade copicr ore in less then n year,
he sold at 8' j and 10 cents nnd made
good money.
This is one of the oldest nipper
camps in the Cnited States nnd date
linck to Spanish occ mintiou three
centuries ago, which is evidenced by
the iniimifiictiirc of copiicr from
these mines in the sluipe of hummer'
ed coiM-r vessels nnd church Mis,
some of which are still in existence
There is nn nliiindnnce of timber,
coul, iron nnd lime within the umncd
into vieinity of the mines. There is
also an iiliundinwe of pure Inst inn
mountain wntor from the mountain
st reams.
And while great profll is exitoctcd
from mining the hi till grade ores, yet
it is believed Hint the great bodies
of low grade ore will in the end brim;
till greater profits.
Colonel Smith's excellent jniluinenf
in determining valuable mining prop
erties is well known iinmnir the mining
men throughout the southwest.
Among the great . prncrtics Col.
Smith has been siu-ecsfii in exploit
ing are the Burro Mountain mines,
We are proud to note that Co. "1"
was on Monday mustered into Uncle
Yarn's service in due and proper
form. A few from outside Deming
were taken in to completo the roster.
Tlicre is no chunue in the official
staff, Arthur W. Brock, captain; John
C. Watson, 1st lieutenant; Clyde Earl
My, zud lieutenant.
Shoeklni AecKant
Mrs. W.JI. Kelly residing on tho
Dean place southeast of town, met
with a most distressing accident
Monday evening while watching the
installation of a new 'engine on the
place to oiernte the pump. In some
unaccountable manner the engine
toppled over and while Mrs. Kelly
was assisting to raise and adjust it,
she was cuiight by it and three fing
ers severed from her hand. Her
inkle was also broken. Dr. P. M.
Steed wus summoned and Mrs. Kei
ly is now resting as well ns can be
exH-eted under the circumstances.
nispToi::
John Roonan Has Organized a Local
Company to Advance fce Busi
ness Interests of Coming
EXTEXSIVE E3TTLI33 KfOXXS
After Several Month's Experience
Noonan Is Positive That The
Enterprise Will Kin Out
John J. Noonan has been making
a very cureful study of the situation
regarding Doming as a distributing
center for a big bottling works con
eero, to place before the people of
the southwest tho famous Demins
water, ((Mum pure, government test,)
and nil kinds of temperate beverages.
This week ho conferred with three
other business men, or rather they
ei inferred with him regarding the in
eoporntiun of u Deming company for
this purpose.
Knell man offered to take the capi
tal slock or -'0,0(1(1, but the stock
will be equally divided among four,
with no stock for sale.
The goods manufactured will bu
ample to supply all this region, and
as the frciht rates of Deming are
very much better than the El l'nso
rale, there is no question about then,
being able to bundle the business.
As soon ns tho company deems it
exHdieiit there will be erected a
suitable building for tho big enter-
; prise. In the meantime they are
! making HiTiiiiKcincnts to take care of
" ! the local trade, until such time a
M. Robinson Is Often Asked About i v, lWK'n
- . gonils on their own account.
m" scaurs ana uses tne erapnic
to Give Out Valuable Information
'OrTiiis Very Important Question
Deming Men Get Lordsburg Contract
E. F. Mora n and aohn Fnlrall. well
known Deming contractors, have been
n winded the contract for the erection
of a ftno modern brick school build
ing at Lordbiig, which will eost about
12,000.
J. Michnud, a Doming architect. I
Irew the plans and specifications.
Work will commence at once in
order that the building may be ready
lor occupancy at the opening of the
school vear.
OAaa-rartotTira
Amelia C, de Gomes and her neice,
Jesus Vulverde, will appear before
the I'. 8. grand jurj at Santa Fe, on
October 3, to answer a charge of
passing counterfeit money. City
Marshal Tabor worked up the ease,
iK'ing assisted by S. K. Bovee, U. S.
secret service agent of EI Paso. Bills
were passed at Donaldson's aud De
'rocker's.
The hearing before Judire Mo.
Keyes, the I. 8. being represented by
assistant U.S. attorney Ralph Easley
aud A. II. Hudspeth, l 8. Marshal.
Attorney R. F. Hamilton, represented
the defendants.
Deming Firm Gets Gevarnmeflt Job
The Southwestern Machinery Sod-
ply Company hns just been awarded
a government contract to drill a lanre
number of wells and install eompletu
pumping plants for the high line oi
communication between Columbus. N.
a a .....
ai., mitt lien, reislungs army in
Mexico.
A steam well drilling outfit and two
shifts of men to work dav and niirht
will leave by government auto trucks
today, for the scene of operations.
I. Murray, general manager of
the company will have direct eunrtre
of the work, which menus that it will
lie a first class job.
:::es m nirm a
TELLS FOB OF CALVES
this year. The date selected is ten-
ativcly arranged for about a week
in advance of the state fair,' which is
to he held Sept. 2.ri-30. The fair will
probably be devoted principally to ag
ricultural, horticultural and home
I'helps-Dodge Co., nnd valued at mil
lions: the Shannon, wlnwe stock was
first sold on a bn-is of 2.50 per
share, represent inn the cost of the
property, and which hns never been
sold since below 0 to $8 ier share
products exhibits. Premiums will belaud is now quoted at S..'0; the Com
offered for first and second places nionwealth, after prodmung about 9
and undoubtedly there will be a great millions, was considered worked out.
many producers throughout the val- hut upon examination by Col. Smith,
ley who will take advantage of this he found values in sight that justi-
opportunity to show the class of the fled the sale of the mine on a basis
products that are raised. The prem- of (100,000, nnd it is now claimed
inm list is in the course of being made by the purchasers they have in sight
up and will be ready for publication approximately 1. 000,000.00. As
within tbe next ten days. A depart
ment will be devoted to canned pro
ducts and baking products of tbe
women. Everybody should now be
making arrangements to begin putting
up fnnts and vegetables in eans or
jars of not less than one quart in
sin.
. Dennis Clifford, a prominent min
ing man of El Paso is in the city to
day exhibiting fine specimens of gold
ore found near Lordsburg.
proof of this they have installed a
2.r0,000 reduction plant.
Mr. C. M. Cotton, head of the Unit
ed Land and Water Co., of Deming,
hns associated himself with Col. P.
R. Smith in the financing of this
great enterprise, which bids fair to
become one of the great producing
mines in the southwest.
It looks as though the people of
New Mexico now. have nnother op.
port unity, such as thev hod in the
I M. Robinson, manager of tho
Mimbres Valloy Creamery, gives val
uable information concerning calf
ours. Among the things he says:
"As many dairy farmers in this vi-
inily seem to' lie troubled with calf
scours, in their herds, by courtesy of
the Deming Graphic, I will suggest
some means of prevention and cure.
"The University of Wisconsin has
sH-cinl treatment that is very good
indeed, first, siiccinl enre is taken
by keeping the cnlves in clean, wcllj
lighted, well vontihited quarters, very
easily obtained here. Feed them rcg-
uliirly three to five pounds each day, j
morning, msm nnd night, of their I
mother's milk. Cure is taken to have
the tcmpcmlure us near as possible
to Ireshly drawn milk, always keeping-
the pails perfectly clean.
For the past three years eases
have been very successfully treated
ns loiiows: As soon ns the symp
toms npcnr, mix two to four ten-
sM)onfnls of castor oil with a hnlf !
Important Notice to Voters
le t'uldwell, who for ten years
has been nil efficient enee officer,
and who whs employed by the Cnttlo
Suiiitury liourd, has been appointed
chief deputy by Sheriff Simpson.
Good man.
Illegal voting and registration.
See. 02. That it shall hereafter Im
unlawful for any ierson who is not
n qualified elector; to vote, r.r to of
fer to vote nf any election held in this
stale, or to register or offer to reg.
ister us n voter: it lid it shall be un
lawful for any mtsoh to register his
name ns u voter, or to cause or pro
cure his name to In so registered in
nay other election precinct than that
in which such person resides, or will
in good faith have resided the requi
site sriod of time prior to the dav of
. the next ensuring election: and it
shall Im- unlawful for any person to
solicit, procure, aid nbet, induce or
attempt to procure or induce any per. v
sou wiio is not iliily qualified to reg
ister as a voter or to vote at any elee
fiwii CvwuiF SwmE CiS C'.ES
to nmp ctt
Noted Pennsylvanlans Looking Over
the Mimbres Valley Studying the
Question of Raising Hogs on Big
Scale; are Kaklng Photographs
C. II. Hon hns Iwcn busy this week
showing two distinguished gentlemen
from Pittsburg tbe Mssibilities of
profitable hog raising in the Mimbre
Valley. The classy strangers ar
Perry A. Shnuor, grand master of
the Ornud Lodge of Pennsylvania I.
. . F., and Chief Judge of tho
(Iriind Forum of Elks, and Justin
Ashton, piesidunt and general man
ager of the National I log Co., largest
in I lie east, with henduuarters at
Asloln, nnd another large company
; ot Kinleyvillc, near Pittsburg.
I SM. .
i ney ore miiKiiig extensive in
stigations ami are taking a lanre
n umber of photographs of fine hogs
1. ........! .,. . ..11 ll
tltitl 111 this stiili. Am iiAFann ... 1 J
. I...11 f 11 : ..
-linn ,itiiiiic iiii(v "i iiiu provisions oi
ins section sunn no linen in any sum
not exceeding $ 1000, ir imprisoned in
the county jail not exceeding twelve
mouths.
(JuuliticHtioii of voters.
can assure our noted guests
they will never find a bcttet
place for profitable hog raising.
Stanley Overt) ol tar
Stanley Ovcrholsvr, sou of Bfr. and
Mrs. A. Overholser. died Inst Friday,
and wus buried from the Mahonev
Rev W. E.
l as resided ill the r","h" .v cv. ineooore
I..,- fwnlv,.. 1 oniemting. the deceased was
See, til Any Hrson, who, at the
pint or milk and give to calf. Follow """ "":v " ' " 'P"! or-
..... . t1iittSi. wtiiilil Im it fiiifiltmiil itUiftat tin.
this in six hours with a teaspoonful , . ... , ' . , ichanel Sunday afternoon.
of a mixture of one par. salol and - .1 '"V " ' KhhU a-.i.ed by Hev.
two parts suh-nilrate -of Insmu'h.
I ns can also be given with one half ,.. . , ten years of age und was much be
pint or sweet milk or the powder . , . , . , loved bv bis rwrent schoolmate ami
. i..j i. ir 4 n county for n netv dnvs next preccd-; psrrin, si nooimaies and
.Ineed on the calf's tongue with n - ,' u- .....' . voting assoe ales. The flminhie
ii . . ... i sniff mi. iiMit. rw. i nmi nnnii nnvtp
TM an,0,'Ht ' ?" m,lk' . ToeW I actually rcsidid in the w.r.1 in which "-rtfrft s.vm.mthy to the
drugs eon oe ooiamen proper y mix- , . . . , , . sorrowing imrenls
i . j . j u u i. 'M' offers to vote for thirty dnvs last ""r"""K iwnnis,
ed at any drug store nnd should be ,krMm., , .,-.. . ', ' friends.
kent on hnn.1 for Mnrm...,.i,.s i ' "" ' '" """" m
As a prevention against contagion
is advised thnt the navel of the'
relatives and
i'l a qualified voter.
Itctler rend this twice before trv-'
The Logical Kan
i i i . ... i a W " I"'1 anything ovcr.n
new born calf be wet with one-to-flve i , ,, . ' .. .
, i . , .-., -, a r. I nrkcr, assistant at
hundred solution of bichloride of,... , D , , n J
agent for
the famous Redondo Bench resort,
:.. i M il: t. j (-0.
, . ... . ... - . , i in iti,u mm itr noil iei( i
lowing this advice yon will find that . ... ,. . , ,,. .
. , Iiite liiilf-tone of this great nmuse-
ry lew eaives wi oe lost." ,.., , ,,
, meat center. Come again.
Jnlin P r.irtAX. -n l.l !... I
rrvsajienans nnumi servicei
Cimarron News-Citiien: To feel
ting of rebuke and yet come out with
n whole hide in the pink of condition
is not the lot of the average man in
M.lili,-s, but it can bp that Ralph
My. candidate for the nomination of
Cliff Whorton of San Simon hn
come to Deming for a wek's visit
with his brothf r-in-tnw. Mr. Whor
ton is a "good roads' enthusiast and
wants to see a road built direct from
Deming to Tucson, Arixor.s,
Rectory Gardens Kade Beautiful
Rev. Father Joseph M. Camet, is
gardens, by erecting artistic arbor- P'"0 Copper Co., which sold for M
. AwtAtA i.nmAm I ha hlnnlr in hnfh I " " "I " " t"".-
directions, and the planting of trees,
flowers and vines.
When this-work is fully completed,
the rectory gardens will he the most
attractive spot in town.
Mrs. J. O. Moir left Thursday
morning for a lengthy sojourn in
California.
Judge B. Y. McKeyes, is in receipt
of a letter from Jesse B. Pease ot
Los Angeles, telling of the death of
Wm. Woodbum, very well known to
the older residents of Deming. Bcj
Mr. Woodbnrn and Mr. Pease were
popular men here in the pioneer
days.
After a short vacation in which the
iwslor preached the last two Sundays
in the 1st Presbyterian church in
F.I Pnso, Rev. H. T. Mitchelmore will
preach at 11 a. m. in the church.
The evening service will be held on
the lawn of the mr.nsc, next door to
the church at 8 o'clock. i
uiau and playwright, will soon put on governor. The campaign of IBM
n sketch fqr the benefit of Co. I, nt had not yet ebwed when political
the Princess. He belongs to Olen j venmn .was distributed by those who
Fentherston's force. i sought his support and despised" for
Mrs. John I Moore, of Fort : his progressive policies. It was evi
Stoektou, 'Texas, will arrive tonight ' dent at that time thnt Mr. Ely was
to visit her daughter, Mrs. Jack E. opposed by the men wfc" control the
flood wvn.
Assistant district attorney J. S.
Vanght was in Lordsburg Tuesday,
Republican party, not thnt he war .'t
fit for the office, but because be r "
his influence to right a vmng t t
lias lseii earried on with imi"''v f r
Women's KlSSlonary Society ' attending a criminal case in Jttdge more then thirty venr
in Ce f
s c.7
. Mnrsalis court. Wednesday I Vims-rs lie fpiti,n. J. l. is
The Women s Missionary Society he was called to Tyrone to preserve the most logical man the party cm
nominate in August : the man w ' t
of the Presbyterian church will meet j the iesce nnd dignity of thnt part
Jinnuay, June m, at three o'clock
nt the church.
The devotional will be conducted
by Mrs. John Corhett. nnd the pro
gram by Mrs. n. T. Mitchelmore.
The subjects are "Xorth nnd
Western India, and Alaska."
or tile state or cw Mexico, , ran defeat any o.msing candl.'
tnA hold fhe purty togvtl.-r in it
lb. E. K. MeXcil, of Las Mesa, of action. Snnta Fe New I xi.
was a welcome Graphio caller yester- - .
day morning. . I. Caldwell, a
prominent bee man was with him
leaving samples of fine honey. i
D. M. Walker of T-owie.
has come to Deming f
lim of locating per .
