be
ILesdngton
lute
VOL. XLVI .
LEXINGTON, LAFAYETTE COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JUNE 16, 1916.
NUMI3ER 24.
FLAG DAY FITTING-
LY OBSERVED
Exercises at the Elks Were Most
Impressive.
The Elks Lodge of the United
States of America have for a
number of years.observed a Flag
Day with ceremonies particular
ly appropriate for the develop
ment of patriotic sentiment and
love for the country's flag. The
Death of Mrs. Addie M. Young.
Mrs. Addie M. Young, widow
of the late Evan Young, died
Saturday afternoon at the home
of her daughter, Mrs. M. C. Mc
Fadin, two miles east of Lexing-
LEANS LARRUP LEATHER.
While the Fats Fall, Fail and
Fumble. A Comedy in Nine
Acts.
CLARENCE VIVION.
For over thirty years Clarence
Vivion has openly, courageously
and honestly fought for and ad-
LOCAL OPTION ELECTION.
ton. Her death was due to old merchants closed their places or
age and general debility. I business and many joined in the
Clark-Marrs.
The home of Mr. and Mrs.
William S. Marrs, 1811 Frankin
street, was the scene of a quiet
vocated the policies and prin-home wedding Sunday when
Wednesday afternoon all the ciples of the Democratic party, j their daughter, Miss Nell, was
and defended it against the as-'married to Mr. Manly W. Clark 'sion Tuesday night set the date
saults of the enemy. His fidelity! of this city. The ceremony was! for the local option election for
Saturday, July 15, Lexington
Will Vote For or Against
Saloons.
The city council in special ses-
Mrs. Young was born in La-jParade to the Association ball and loyalty are unquestioned, and
fayette county, May 11, 1841. .grounds to witness the slaughter
She was married to Evan Young of the Fats in a baseball game,
of Lebanon, Kentucky, January
18, 1859. Mr. Young died twelve
day has recently been more gen
erally recognized all over the
country by executive authority
in declaring it a holiday that the
people may assemble and rededi-
cate it to causes ot liberty and emeritus of the C. W. B. M.
justice. The ritualistic exercises 'society of this church, and a
of the Elks' Lodge include the member of the eastern star,
history of the Flag, a tribute to Mrs. Young is survived by two
the Flag and the singing of the daughters, Mrs. M. C. McFadin
This frolic was a part of the
Flag Day celebration and fur-
years ago. Mrs. Young was a rushed unlimited , opportunities
whenever his services have been
performed at 2 o'clock by the .Saturday, July 15, 1916. Other
father of the groom, Rev. War- j than the question involved the
needed, no hesitancy has been'ren P. Clark of Chillicothe, Mo. election will be similar in every
felt in calling on him. He is a! After the ceremony the bride respect to other elections. The
friend of the laborine neoDle. and trroom left for Kansas Citv. 1 ballot will read as follows:
and, they too, have reason to be 'where they will visit until the
life-long and devoted member of i for the cure of indigestion and grateful for his many courtesies flatter part of the week. They
to them. Such men have done j will then return to Lexington
more for the party than the and live on College street in the
party could ever do for them. J house recenty bought and fur
After these many years, in the:rished by Mr. Clark,
afternoon of life, he asks the Eoth the bride and. groom are
by the real lean Leans and the party for the nomination for 'among Lexington's most estima
te Christian church. She was dippepsia. Ihe ats, as predict
a life member and president ed by the sport writer of the In
telligencer, gave a poor exhibi
tion of playing the game.
The first three acts were put on
real fat Fats, and believe us, it
national anthem. Wednesday 0f near this city, and Mrs. W. j was "put on." Dr. Payne served
A. Connell of Kansas City; one the pill for the Fats and John
"Against the sale of intoxica
ting liquors."
"For the Sale of intoxicating
liquors."
(Erase the clause you do not
want.)
Aged Man Dies.
Newt Ervin, age 60 years, died
Thursday night about 10 o'clock
in a rooming house across from
prosecuting attorney, which over le young people. They enjoy
sixteen years ago, he, without the confidence and esteem of a
Lexington Lodge No. 749, to- a. Connell of Kansas Citv: one the pill for the Fats and John fear or favor, so ablv filled J wide circle of friends and ac
gether with all of the other sister, Mrs. S. J. Houston; three ,Taubman for the Leans. Payne 'Democrats may now show their quaintances whose well wishes the 0p?ra IIouse where he has
lodges in the United States, paid brothers. Josenh B. Shelbv. 'was as wild as a March hare and gratitude and annreciation to ! will follow them throucrh life. been staying for the past few
its tnoute to the nag witn con- y Bates City Lynn B and For. had no support at all. He would thiy friend of Democracy by giv-
fccientious enorx in ioiiowing xne rest Sheby of this city. She is al- have clone better without held- Jng him the nomination,
mandate or the brand Lodge. I mirvivpd liv tpn o-rflnrlrVn'hlrpn ers. The ball was a live coal
The exercises were held on the 'and seven great grandchildren. , whenever it came anywhere near
The. funeral services conducted
by Rev. Richard W. Wallace,
iwere held irom the home ot M.
a Fat and he either kicked at it
or lost it entirely. The Leans
,we can't say too much about
Change in Drug Firm.
lawn of the Elks Club. The rit
ual wa3 augmented by an ad
dress by Hon. John B. Pew of
Kansas City, and a concert by C. McFadin Monday afternoon at, them just mention the score knmvn drug firm of Westerman
xne voncoi ma Dana, i ne aaaress 3 0 clock
was a fine effort and thoroughly j
enjoyed by all who heard it. Mr.
Pew's compliments to the egois-
$25.00 Reward.
Wednesday night
rriminnllv inclinpd spt
r 1 -r 11 f rt l
i-ayion iwnett, son 01 aamuei i01iver Wiicoxon's barn on 10th
1 weeks. His death was due to
'angina pectoris. The body was
removed to the Winkler Under
someone taking parlors,
fire to I
Harvey Mavel went to Kansas
r ii i 1 ia 1. j.
nanim, nas uougni me interest ctrp- ,,.;tu v;pw nf ,Wfrnvmo- -. 4. 1 A
inmL a i. u n street Ult" a Vlew 01 tleh"inS,City yesterday morning to wit-
aa...ca xi. uounm in C11 thg barn &m ajj Qf contentS.
& Rankin. The inventory
Leans 16; Fats 0.
j Batteries ; Leans, Taubman and
Death of Mildred C. LaBertew. Groves; Fats, Payne, Graddy
Word has been received here of ,an Campbell.
VlT ,l 'lcI"-"e ueatn 01 .urs. .uimred u' and ambitions young man whose saved
ism" satisfied the audience that LnRrrW nt tv,P hnma nf- w by some more Leans and Fats ,J, . " . , ., veu
he was right in mind and heart, daughter, Mrs. Clarence Truitt, wno were supposed to possess
The Concordia Band furnished Pomona, Cal., Wednesday, May ,pome ski11 in handling the pill,
music for the afternoon, and in 31, 1916. Mrs. LaBertew was;Some skill J'es' tnat's it "some
the evening they gave a full con- the wife of the late W. A. La-isk'-" The Fats used three
cert from the veranda of the Elks iBertew and both were well pitchers in an attempt to regain
Club. Lexington people are just-1 known by the elderly people of pome of the kure,s lost by their
lv enthusiastic, over the oualitv this city as they lived here for brothers, but to no purpose. The
of musical essence distilled, by 'many, years. . , -.. Leans were hungry and ate up!
Mr. Bredehoeft's men; they are I Mrs. LaBertew is survived by everything the rats ottered.
Tinifinrn nf enftipipnr nrnrtinn1. two dnncrhtprs nnrl nnp snn Mr-.. Fred Wilmot pitched for the
"leans. The Fats used John Nath- ton has secured from the county
low their director, producing an! Mrs. John Lathrop of Portland, ailiel Sturgis, Ralph Campbell , court the use of the East room.
Oregon, and Bedford LaBertew an(1 ' Klstine- vn u,e tum' nuur 01 uie touri
of Denver, Col. Two brothers,! The score. Leans 14 Fats 5- house and the pame wiU le
Jefferson W. Bedford of Omaha, I Eateries: Leans, Wilmot and equipped for a ladies' rest room.
Nebr., and E. W. Bedford of Patterson; Fats, Sturgis, Camp- The room will be redecorated
Fayette, Mo., also survive. bell, Ristine and Ardinger. and furnished with everything
' ' Mr. Lee J. Slusher umpired, that will make it attractive and;
ness the Cohynbus-Blues baseball
One side of the barn had beenVimp
, . o
lb treated with coal oil and a match i "Tim" r.i,i,vuii
being taken and possesion will applied. The fire, however, was Mo.( who has been fishing aJ
be given immediately. discovered before it had gained White's Island, arrived in Lex-
' " . . 1 c" in a CiJf U,1U much headway, and the property Won Wednesday night to ar-
The ba HI was rented tO'rancp n hnhsill ump hptwppn
. .1 ....Ml i.. . . . . - t,... w t
pie.iice, no uuuui, wm ranino- (jhas. Ellis, who used it to stable
ute to the successful continua- his horse. Mr. Wilcoxon ofTers
tion of this well established $25 reward for the arrest of the
business. gruilty party. 1
rir. Rankin retires from the,
firm so as to give his undivided
tin:e to othrr business interests.
Winsor and Lexington in the
near future.
Judge John E. Burden went
to Kansas City Friday on legal
business.
Ladies' Rest Room.
Mrs. C. W. Comfort and little
daughter returned to their home
in Sedalia Friday after 3. vifit'
For Sale.
A bull calf, thoroughbred
here with the familv of .Tnmes shorthorn, seven months old.
The Womans' Club of Lexing- Fletcher. ! Jackson Bradley.
ensemble effect not surpassed by
bands of the same size in the
large cities. Mr. Bredehoeft's
directing is quiet in manner but
he secures an excellent tone
quality and most satisfactory
color and rythm.
After the program, ice cream
and cake were served on the
lawn, the band played, and those
who were so inclined danced.
At a late hour the crowd dis
persed well satisfied with what
they had seen and heard.
J.
Mo.,
C. Shelton went to Gillam,
yesterday on business.
Summer Specials
The loss of Miss Laura Hyde behind the plate and Mr. A. W. comfortable for the exclusive
Wilson from our local public Clemens in the field. Both gave use of women, particularly those
school is regreted by all. Loved splendid service. from the country. The furnish-
by her pupils, she was ever ngs will be donated by the mer-
ready and greatly assisted them Ruebel Sells Barber Shop. chants of Lexington, and the
in their advancement. The News Daniel Ruebel Monday sold; members of the Womans' Club
hopes to chronicle freauent nro- ms barber shop hxtures and good .win provide tor its supervision
motions of this ambitious young iwiU to Arthur Johns- Possession
lady and joins her many friends v'a3 2iven immediately. Mr.
in wishing her a successful fu-,Jonns nasl:,een m the employ 01
McUeiland & Cuningham for the
past six months and is a first
ture. Wellington News.
A MATTER OF COURTESY
To show our stock
And help "'ou to select exactly what's wanted
It is no trouble to show our stock. As a matter of fact,
we don't want a man to take something that "will do" we want
every purchaser to "be particular and not be satisfied until he
E;t3 exactly the material he wants.
That is why we hold our trade so easily our customers
know that we are anxious to please them and meet their most
exacting demands.
You'll f.nd it a pleasure to buy your lumber here.
War Department Honors Went
Worth Military Academy.
Wentworth Military Academy
has again been designated by the
j class workman in every partic-(War Department as one of the
ju'ar tten "distinguished" military aca-
Mr. Ruebel has conducted a demies of the United States.
. barber shop in this room for Owing to the martial spirit which
j twenty- two years. After a few has developed in this country
.days he expects to take a trip 'since the beginning of the Euro
jthrough the west and will then'pean war, the rivalry among the
, return to Lexington and prob-'military academies for this hon-
auly work for Mr. Johns 0r has been very keen. The
. 'authorities at Wentworth are to
A. J. Nolting left yesterday be congratulated that they gain
for Columbia, Pa., where he will ed this coveted honor.
attend the wedding of his son,
I Edward Nolting, to Miss Rosej Hugh C. Wallace of Seattle,
jWitt. The wedding will occur , Washington, a former resident
, luesday, June zu, 1U16 at Col- 0f this city and a son of the late I
jumbia. Mr. bolting has recently Thomas B. Wallace, spent a few
graduated from the Hartford : days in Lexington last week,
j Theological Seminary at Hart-'calling on old friends ami ac
cord, Conn. After the wedding 'quaintances. Mr. Wallace is the
,tne ivev. and .Mrs. xsolting will Democratic National Commit-
A Lot of Broken Sizes in Ladies
Pumps, Strap Oxfords, Button
and Lace Oxfords.
WORTH S2.30 and $3.00
At
$1.98
leave for India, where Rev. Nolt
ing goes as a missionary under 'Was on his way to attend
,the direction of
: Mission Board
the American
teeman from Washington, and
the
St.
National
Louis.
Convention in
"The Yard that Saves and Satisfies.'
LAMBERT LUMBER COMPANY
JOHN J. PRICE, Manager.
The preliminary of Gilbert j Dr. G. W. Fmleudall is driv
Washington, who was arrested ing a new Hudson "6" runabout.
Friday for stealing chickens; Miss Alberta Munston return
from Mrs. R. L. Slusher, will be ed to her home in Iendependence
held in Judge Clyde Wright's 'yesterday after a visit here
office Monday. Washington was with her sister, Mrs. Robert Lee
trying to dispose of the chick-'Howe.
ens at Long's Feed Store when I F. W. Bauers went to Jefferson
arrested. jCity Friday for a visit.
AN IMMENSE BARGAIN IN CHINAWARE IN THE BIG
BARGAIN BASEMENT.
50 Piece Dinner Set, Beautiful Decorated Ware, for
$6.95
62 Tiece Dinner Set, Beautiful Gold Decorated Ware,' for
$9.85
AND WE GIVE (ABSOLUTELY
FREE) WITH EACH
SET BOUGHT, A BEAUTIFUL GLASS
WATER SET, PITCHER AND SIX
TUMBLERS ON METAL TRAY.
SEE
Our West Show Window for Display.
IN THE READY-TO-WEAR ROOM
"Wooltex" rre-Shrunk Wash Skirts,
"Wirthmor" and "Welworth" waists,
And some excellent BARGAINS in
Coats and Suits.
A VISIT TO THIS DEPARTMENT
NOW WILL TAY YOU
ill
3
tiobt)
