The Echo has a
reading circulation
ot over 4.000 per
sons who trade in
Leaven-worth. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 24
NEW STATION THREE
MILES UP THE CANYON
Probably Be Called Tumwater— Steam
Shovel Sent Out Yesterday—Will
Widen Grade Immediately
Chief Engineer Hoagland was here
Tuesday and in conversation with
Terminal Agent Woodrow said a new
telegraph station would be established
at once, between three and three and a
half miles west of Levenworth. The
steam shovel was sent out yesterday
and with a force of men will begin at
once to widen the grade so that a
three thousand foot passing track can
be put in.
Some very important developments
in regard to terminal improvements at
this place may be announced soon.
One of which is additional siding room.
The need of better and larger terminal
buildings at Leavenworth has long been
recognized by the company and as
soon as some more pressing improve
ments are out of the way we may see
a considerable amount of money spent
here by the company in making much
needed improvements in the terminal
yards and buildings.
Must Be Checked.
The reckless expenditure of funds
raised by taxation will have to be
checked, or the people will not be able
to bear their unnesessary burdens any
longer and will be tempted to raise up
in arms against constituted authority.
From the increased registration of
voters this year, it is apparent that the
people are beginning to recognize the
fact that each person owes to himself
and to the people in general the duty
to closely scrutinize the acts of public
officials and of candidates for office and
being at ths polls to vote for good men
who are prudent and will work for the
abolishment of all unnecessary expen
ditures of public funds no matter how
gracious or influential the recipient of
the public funds may be.
COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS
There was a regular meeting of the
city council Tuesday evening with five
members present and Mayor Day in
the chair. City Attorney Nelson was
also in attendance.
Bills allowed amounted to 1264.56.
Mr. Guest and Mr. Luchanan of
Leavenworth Gardens, were given per
mission to tap the water main.
Mr. Patterson on behalf of the school
board was granted permission to tap
the mains in two places in order to
get water to irrigate the shade trees in
the school grounds.
Mr. Montgomery made the com
plaint that one of the telephone poles
on the north side was out of place and
wanted it moved. Matter was referred
to street committee.
The clerk was instructed to get bids
for painting the band stand, park fence
aud benches. Also to purchase a flae.
He was also instructed to have Mr.
Speidel prepare plans for remodeling
the city hall. It is the intention to
have a vault constructed for the safe
keeping of the many valuable docu
ments belonging to the city.
Council then adjourned till Wednes
day morning when it met to hear the
reading of the complaint in the pre
pared suit against Seaman & Quigg.
After its reading and appioval the
mayor was authorized to affix his sig
nature and it was returned to Mr.
Whitney, who will immediately file
suit. The damage claimed amounted
to $29,626.71.
Mrs. Wheeler, who has been here
on a visit to her son E. G. Wheeler,
left yesterday morning with J. B. Dun
can of Peshastin on a ten days trip to
Waitsburg, Walla Walla and other
points in southeastern Washington.
Mr Duncan will be accompanied by
his wife and make the trip by auto.
Miss Marion Ouren left Wednesday
for Lake Cbelan on a visit to the family
of Dr. G. W. Parrish, old lowa friends
of the Ouren family
Qhe Xeavenwortb Jliil
Reynolds-Danby Wedding
Mr. Day Reynolds and his bride ar
rived here Tuesday morning from
Coeur de Alene, Idaho, and will make
this place their future home. They
were married at the home of the bride's
parents last Sunday, Mr. and Mrs. D.
E. Danby.
The contracting parties are well
knewn here*. The bride, was for two
years teacher of domestic science in
the Leavenworth public school, and
made a host of friends by her amiable
disposition and charming personality.
Mr. Reynold has lived here four years,
and with his brother, F. A. Roynolds,
has been engaged in the real estate
business. He is a young business
man of ability and numbers his friends
by ihe hundred.
EIRST ANNUAL MEETING
LEAVENWORTH CREAMERY
A Statement of the Secretary Showed
that the Institution Is in Sound Fi
nancial Condition
At a meeting of the stockholders
held at the creamery last Saturday
afternoon, attended also by many
ranchers who deliver butter fai to the
institution, it developed that the Leav
enworth Co-aperative Creamery is in a
sound financial condition after a run of
fifteen months. Mr. C. C. Campbell
read a report which showed the assets
to be in excess some $400 of all lia
bilities, with over 1500 pounds of
butter on hand.
The matter of adding an icemakine
plant was discussed but no definite
conclusion reached. It also developed
that the ice cream business was growing
and in the future all those who handle
cream will take the local product.
Manager Van Brocklin, who was re
employed, stated that the butterfat
deliveries were increasing right along
and that the indications pointed to a
considerable increase in business the
second year.
The old board of directors was re
elected with the exception of U. H.
Leftwitch and R. F. Tavlor and now
stands J. B. Adams, Emil Frank, M.
Rumohr, W. W. Burgess, R. B. Field,
Deed H. Mayar and L. W. Woodrow.
The new directors held their first meet
ing after the stockholders i adjourned,
and made some changes in the em
ployes salary, increasing Mr. Vanßrock
lin's and C. A. Campbell's salaries each
ten dollars per month. Additional ice
cream carriers were purchased and the
matter of an ice making plant was dis
cussed but no action taken.
Going to Lake Wenatchee Sat
urday-Evening?
This is to say that there will be an
other of those enioyable dancing parties
given at the ,Lake Wenatchee Inn.
If you were there last Saturday you will
recall what a rare good'time was had.
24*
Thos. J. Logan and Miss Margaret
L. McNamara secured a marriage
license in King county last Tuesday
and were married Wednesday at the
home of the bride's brother in Seattle.
They plan to spend the next two weeks
in California and after that to return to
Leavenworth to make their home,
where Mr. Logan is night yard master
in the G. N. terminal yards. Miss
McNamara has made Leavenworth her
home for the past five years and has a
host of friends. Mr. Logan has lived
here four years. He was first employed
in the telegraph service and over a
year ago was promoted to night yard
master.
Win. Churchill arrived here the first
of this week and says his sheeD will be
in this vicinity within the next few
| weeks. He has charge of Mrs. Vessey's
' flocks, who, by the way, herself arrived
here Wednesday. Mr. Churchill says
sheep went throu the winter in fairly
j eood condition. The high price of wool
land mutton which bids fair to hold up
I during the summer ought to make
' flock-masters happy, he thinks.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, June 16, 1916
Wilson and Marshal vs. Hughes and Fairbanks
The democrats perfunctorily met in St. Louis Wednesday and per
functorily declared Mr. Wilson and Mr. Marshal respectively their
candidates for president and vice president. Simply because the
whole transanction was perfunctory less interest attached to the pro
ceedings than usual, and very much less newspaper space was re
quired to tell the story of the meeting.
The platform plank on preparedness differs little from the repub
lican plank on the same subject. What was not expected, however,
was that the demjeratic party would come around to the principles
of protection and advocate a tariff on dye stuffs.
That wise and owlish democratic has been, Bryan, secured the
adoption of a political flapdoodle plank as sop to catch progressives.
Of course much stress is laid on the fact that the democratic admin
istration has kept us out of war, and if it could by any means con
vince the voters that it would keep us out of war with Mexico until
after the election, some votes might be garnered.
What Ought to Be Done With
Him?
Mrs. E. G. Wheeler is, or was, the
owner of a handsome American flag
that was given her as a prize while she
lived in Alaska. In a patriotic spirit
Mr. Wheeler hung the flag out in front
of his store on flag day and neglected
to take it in when he closed up. Dur
ing the night some one in utter dis
regard of the rights of property, not
having the fear of the law in mind,
feloniously appropriated that flag. The
base wretch.
CHAS. S. TAYLOR TAKES
INTEREST IN THE TOGGERY
Deal Closed This Week for the Interest
formerly Held by Spencer
Blankenship
Ever since Mr. Blankenship decided
to re tire from the Toggery some six
weeks ago, Mr. Pipkin has been looking
about for some one to take over that
interest. Yesterday the announcement
was made that a deal had been closed
whereby C. S. Taylor, by his intimates
known as "Pick" becomes a member
of the Toggery Co. They could not
have hit on a better man in every way.
Mr. Taylor has had nine years exper
ience with the Leavenworth Mercantile
Co. the oldest and one of the largest
mercantile establishments in Leaveu
worth, and was considered one of its
most reliable and popular salesmen.
While with the company he devoted
his time to dry doods and clothing and
was considered a first class buyer as
well as salesman. Messrs. Pipkin and
Taylor will make a strong team and
ought to pull together like a pair of
draft horses. They are both young,
full of energy and have the mercantile
instinct. They are both model men
and have a host of friends. The Echo
predicts for them a successrul career.
Eagle Creek
Mrs. A. M. Sparks and children of
Tacoma are visiting at the J. H. Sharpe
home.
Mr. and Mrs. Martin Christenson
spent Sunday with Mrs. Christenson's
parents, Mr. and Mrs. M. Cahill.
Ed. Reynolds had the creek changed
on his place to run around the moun
tain side so he could use the bottom
land.
Mrs. Schons returned home from
Wenatchee this week where she spent
the past t7/o weeks with Mr. Schons.
Mrs. F J. Flannagan and children
came over from Maiden Wash, and
will spend the summer on their ranch.
The E. C. S. club met with Mrs.
J. H Sharpe Thursday afternoon. A
most enjoyable afternoon was spent
by all present. At 5 o'clock luncheon
was served.
Mrs. A. M. Sparks and children are
spending their summer vacation at the
home of her parents, Mr. and Mrs. J.
H. Sharp.
Miss Hetty Greig oi Cashmere is
spending this week with Mrs. E. L.
Reynolds at Sunny Cove.
INTERESTING STATE ITEMS
Governor Lister and Mayor Hi Gill
of Seattle attended the opening exer
cises of the West Okanogan irrigation
project last week.
Skagway, Alaska was voted dry re
cently. All other Alaska towns re
mained in the wet column.
The big longshoreman's strike on
the Pacific coast begun the first of
June, came to an end by both parties
agreeing to arbitration last week.
The finest resort hotel in the state
Sol Due Hot Springs was destroyed by
fire last week.
Seattle's preparedness parade on
Saturday lasc proved to be the biggest
demons'ration the city has ever wit
nessed, with the possible exception of
the occasion when the Atlantic fleet
was here, on it? ;rip around the world.
Representatives from all the neighboring
cities and towns and from many more
distant places were in the line of march.
There is not much question that the
coast cities of the country at least are
solid for preparedness.
By the latest report of the industrial
insurance commission a total of 86,
--132,173 has been paid into the fund
in the four years industrial insurance
has been in force in this state, this
amount coming from contributing
employers. Out of it $3,892,407 has
been paid out on injury claims and
82,048,422 in pensions to dependents
of workingmen killed in employment.
Thru remarriage oi dependent widows
$233,125 has returned to the fund that
would otherwise have been paid out.
The accident fund on June 1 carried
a balance of 8392,296.
The new industrial insurance com
mission, which assumed office June 1,
has already made several important
changes in administration methods of
the department. As one of the safe
guards against the passing of any more
fraudulent accident claims from county
road work, the commission now requires
the approval o' one member of the
the board of county commissioners in
addition to that of the road foreman.
Most of the Gillies frauds were forged
on alleged county road payrolls. By
requiring the approval of a county com
missioner of claims an official assurance
of validity is given by thi county.
In further protection of the reserve
fund the insurance commission has re-
Quired affidavit reports of physical
condition every three months frorr
pension fuDd beneficiaries. Payments
will be held at the office until such
reports are received. The commission
has also suspended cash advances in
excess of monthly Dayments due bene
ficiaries, except in cases where an ad
vance would save the beneficiary from
sacrificing property.
Buttermilk Delivered
Call up the Creamery phone 472,
and get fresh buttermilk every day.
One gallon or more delivered anywhere
in the city at 15 cents per gallon.
24tf
Colonel Fox attended the Flag Day
celebration in Wenatchee Wednesday
and delivered an address on the flag.
Industries Support Communities
Industries and their payrolls not
only support families and make the
community prosperous, but pay the
taxes.
They sometimes earn profits for the
owners and even in rare cases have
been known to pay dividends to stock
holders.
Properly speaking industries include
all business employments and activities
that result in a payroll or circulate
money.
The city of Klingenberg, Germany,
owns a valuable mine of clay and pays
each resident an annual revenue of 850
besides all city taxes.
Industries produce the wealth and
put the money in circulation that en
ables people to pay taxes, whether it
be a bootblack stand, a cannery or ft
railroad company.
WENATCHEE YOUTH INJURED
PALLING FROM A TALL TREE
With Companion Was Camping in the
Icicle Canyon and Climbed a
High Tree for Boughs
Lloyd Farris, of Wenatchee, an 18
year old youth, with a companion of
about the same age were camping
about two miles up in the Icicle can
yon. Just before dark Monday even
ing they were cutting pine boughs,
supposedly to make a bed, and young
Farris climed a tall pine tree with an
ax to cut boughs and fell out. In bis
decent he must have struck limbs, but
before he hit the ground his body
struck on an old building that had been
used by the city water system builders
three years ago. His hip was dislocat
ed, several ribs fractured and his body
very severely bruised. Mr. and Mrs.
J. D. Wheeler who were in the vicinity
brought the news to town and Doctors
Judan and Hoxsey immediately left in
an auto and brought the unfortunate
youth to the Leavenworth hospital
where his hurts were dressed and his
father notified. Ed. Farris, a We
natchee fruit grower, arrived here on
the early morning train and took his
son home, where, we are told, he is
making satisfactory recovery.
Change in Management of the
Golden Rule
Mr. and Mrs. R. B. Gilbert arrived
here yesterday and will in the future
make Leavenworth their home. Mr.
Gilbert will take charge of the Golden
Rule store, succeeding Mr. S. F.
Banks, who will remain here until
about the first of July. He has not
severed hir connection with the Golden
Rule company but will transfer his ac
tivity to other fields. Mr. Gilbert has
been connected with the Wenatchee
Golden Rule store for the past four
years.
L. C. Chapman who had charge of
an orchard place near Peshastin for two
years, and left here two months ago
for Montana, returned this week and
says in all his life he never saw such
activity as now animated that great
mining state. He says millionaires
are made overnight and their number
ha? been increased beyond anything
heretofore known. He will spend sev
eral days here and then go back there
where he is intetested in some mining
property which promises to pat him on
easy street.
Wm. Stage, Sr., and wife returned
the first of the week from Walla Walla,
for which point they left about three
weeks ago on a visit to relatives and
friends, Mr. stage says he found the
roads in fairly good condition and ex
perienced few auto troubles.
A large flock of sheep passed throu
here early yesterday morning for the
Icicle river grazing ground. From
this time they will be coming until by
the first of July there will be upwards
of a hundred thousand sheep in the
Wenatchee forest reserve.
Get your butter wrappers at Echo office
Our Job Printing
department is com
plete. If you want
High Class printing
at reasonable price?,
come to this office.
$1.50 Per Year
VANEO MINING CO. WANTS
RIGHT OE WAY fOR RAILROAD
Up Icicle River Valley--Leavenworth to
Donate Land and Right of Way for
Three Miles
Last Friday Mayor Day received a
communication from 'Mr. N. Neilson
one of the promoters of a railroad from
Leavenworth up the Icicle river valley
to the Vaneo mines, about 25 miles
from Leavenworth, asking the people
of this town if the road was located on
the line above indicated to donate two
acres of land near the south end of the
G. N. spur track at the foot of the hill
where the L.-D. Lumber Co.'s reser
voir is located, for terminal use, and
the right of way 100 feet wide from
that point to where the line would
enter the forest reserve, a distance of
approximately three miles, and the
friendly co-operation in securing right
of way thru the forest reserve and the
Northern Pacific railroad company's
land. The latter company owns every
alternate section of land.
In the evening a meeting of %-c
citizens was held in the city hall to
ascertain the feeling. Mayor Day was
elected chairman and A. R. Brown
secretary. After the object ol the
meeting was stated a number of the
property owners promptly stated that
if the road was to be built along the
lines indicated it was up to Leaven
worth to see that the right of way was
secured, as such a road would be of
great benefit to the town. It would
not only bring the products of the
mine here for shipment but would
cause the company to maintain an
office here and ship supplies from this
point. It was also pointed out that
the building of a railroad up the Icicle
river would open up some fine dairy
lands and a vast and valuable body of
cedar, pine and fir timber.
On motion the following committee
was appointed to look into and report
at some future time about the cost of
a right of way: E. H. Fox, L. J. Nel
son, Thos. Burke, O. S. Sampson and
Deed H. Mayar. The meeting ad
journed subject to the call of the
chairman.
J. W. Elliott, O. S. Sampson and F.
T. Mottelerwere appointed a committee
on finance and will endeavor to secure
what funds are necessary to carry out
the views and intentions of those who
favor complying with the request of
the railroad people.
Messr. Neilson and Van Epps, the
former the promoter of the railroad and
the latter the principal owner of the
mining property, have advised the
mayor that they would be here the
last of this week or the first of next
week and be in a position to |ive defi
nite information as to just what their
purpose is. It is understood that a
preliminary survey of the route of the
road will be made at an early date. If
the Icicle route is decided on work
will begin as soon as possible.
You Are Invited
The W. C. T. U. will meet at the
Methodist church Tuesday evening at
8 o'clock June 20. There will be
special music, local speakers and a
general discussion. Everyone is urged
to come out. The following are the
officers of the organization: president
Mrs. T. E. Brown, vice president Mrs.
Maston, secretary Mrs. Pearson.
Notice
After July Ist 1916 the Peshasi.n
Fruit Growers Association will rot
consider applications for membership
which require the handling of the
1916 crop. 24-5
Miss Olive Raftree is expected here
from Chicago today. She visited the
A. H. Sylvester family here several
years ago and made many friends who
will be glad to renew her acquaintance.
Mrs. C. Warren Reid, of Wenatchee,
is here on a visit to her parents, Mr.
and Mrs. H. X. Featherstone, and wiil
remain until the last of the week.
