TmTT <1 <1
fSTi i&m&A
ELEVENTH YEAR No. 52,
MANAGANESE MINE.
Fred Neal has developed into a min
ing promoter who promotes and for a
new hand at the business his record
in that line is phenomenal considering
what luck others have had In this
country following the same line. Mr.
Neal is not engaged in promoting
mines that carry the common metals of
commerce, or those that enter into the
composition of hard money—that is
common in the ordinary conversation
of mining districts, yet rather uncom
mon as a possession of the ordinary
citizen— but in the more rare minerals
that the war has given a new and
attractive value.
Nature In the distribution of various
minerals that are "digged out of the
howels of the harmless earth,” has
been generous to Okanogan county, so
generous Indeed that man Is yet really
Ignorant us to the extent of that gene
rosity. Every once in a while discov
eries of new and rare deposits are
made until one is lead to believe that
about everything of a mineral nature
that enters into use in science, chem
icals and commerce are to be found in
this county if men would only take the
trouble to go out and hunt for it.
Early In the season Mr. Neal handled
a tungsten property situated a few
miles west of Tonasket, llndlng a syn-'
dicate to take it over, and within the
past week he has engineered a deal by
which a manganese mine, located near
the celebrated J. I. Hogue orchard,
west of Omak, has been bonded to Ta
coma residents. The newly organized
company, made possible through the
■ exertions of Mr. Neal, will have the
local designation of the Omak Manga
nese company.
Now this Is not a new discovery.
The claim has been owned by Jas. Bur
dette and others for years, but owing
to the low price of manganese it has
never been worked, nor has the value
of the ore ever been sufficient to jus
tify shipping. The European war,
which has put a new value on many
things in this country that were for
merly valueless, owing to this country
depending upon Europe for a supply,
cheap labor and water transportation
favoring importation. Among those
things is manganese, and now, on ac
count of the war, that mineral has
reached such a price that the Oka
nogan county deposit can be worked
at a large profit.
Mr. Neal got on the trail of manga
nese, knew that the local deposit exist
ed, ran down men who are interested
in obtaining the mineral, made a bulk
shipment last week to Tacoma, and
demonstrated so conclusively that the
property was worth getting hold of
that the Tacoma people at once closed
a contract with him to take over the
claim at a very comfortable and com
forting figure.
The following information relative
to the property is obtained from Mr.
Neal;
The property consists of 160 acres,
120 acres patented and forty acres
leased from the state for a term of
years. It is located about two and one
half miles northwest of Omak, a sta
tion on the Oroville-Wenatchee branch.
The outcrop is very strong and per
sistent. it is opened up in three places
by shallow shafts over a distance of
2000 feet, each of which shows man
ganese ore of good grade, especially
the south shaft, which is located on
school land, in tihs shaft there are
three feet of solid ore, which will prob
ably average over 40 per cent metalic
manganese. The general formation
consists of granite rocks, the ore oc
curring on contact with quartz dyke,
and between 15 and 20 feet wide mak
ing It a quarrying proposition, with al
most unlimited tonnage of medium
and low grade ore immediately avail
able. The wagon road from the mine
to the railroad station is exceptionally
good, all down grade and level and
surfaced most of the distance.
Webster describes manganese as "a
metal of a dusky white or whitish gray
color, very hard and diflfcult to fuse.”
It enters largely into certain chem
icals, and is used in making glass, por
celain, etc,, according to the encyclo
pedia, although the etc., conveys little
information or satisfaction. Anyhow,
It is an ore that is in demand and all
concerned are liable to make a neat
thing out of the transfer and the work
ing of this property.
■
CELEBRATION AT TONASKET.
The celebration at Tonasket last
rhursday, commemorating the comple
tion of the irrigation system, an 1 ar
arranged in conjunction with the cele
bration at Oroville the previous day,
v as a success beyond the anticipations
of the most sanguine resident of our
neighboring town. The understanding
and arrangements were for a dual
celebration, the two towns to aid each
other in carrying out the plans to
make the occasion a state wide event
as well as an exhibition of local satis
faction and gratification over the con
summation of an improvement mean-
iug so much to the valley and the
towns depending upon the prosperity
of the valley for future development
and growth. The crowd at Tonasket
was one of the largest. If not, indeed,
the largest, ever assembled in the
county, and the people of that palce
Provided a program of amusements
that kept the people Interested
throughout the day. The great drawing
card and the one which was respons
ible for the collection of so many
people, was the aeropane. The day was
perfect as regards weather conditions,
and the aviator ascended to great
heights, making some hair lifting evo
lutions. Tonasket responded nobly to
the Orovllle celebration, and Orovllle
reciprocated by contributing several
hundred to help swell the crowd. Both
towns are to be congratulated upon
the result of their efforts, and the
residents of both towns are perfectly
satisfied with the attendance and the
nature of the entertainment extended
to visitors.
COUNCIL MEETING.
Minutes of the regular meeting of
the town council of the town of Oro
ville, June 12, 1916.
Present, Mayor Samson, Councilmeu
Beale, Friis, Starrett and Smith.
Minutes of the previous meeting read
and approved as read.
Minutes of a special meeting held
June 1, 1916, read and approved as
read.
Letter from P. H. Pinkston in regard
to certain parties having the south end
of Fourth street fenced in, asking that
this fence be ordered removed, was
read and the clerk was ordered to no
tify the owners of this fence to remove
it at once.
The petition of certain citizens ask
ing for the closing of Second street
between State street and Washington
street was read and after some dis
cussion in the matter motion was made
that the petitioners be granted permis
sion to temporarily close the above
described street subject to the order
of the council for the opening of the
same. Motion seconded and carried.
The following bills were read and
on motion were allowed and ordered
paid; Jas. Fraser, assistant engineer,
$3.00; W. Wentworth, assistant engin
eer, |1.50; G. H. Major, engineer. 37.50;
M. Walmer, labor on water works,
2.40.
Ordinance No. 74 granting a fran
chise to the Pacific Telephone and Tel
egraph Company was read and motion
was made and seconded that the ordin
ance pass its third and final reading.
Yeas Beale, Friis, Smith and Starrett.
Noes, none.
Motion was made and carried that
the town treasurer be instructed to
transfer $275.00 from the Water Com
pany fund to the Current expense fund.
On motion council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSE, Clerk.
UAKI> FROM EXCURSIONISTS.
Seattle, Wash. June 9, 1916.
To the Commercial Clubs of Tonasket
and Oroville, Washington—
We, the undersigned members of the
Seattle Chamber of Commerce, who
have rejoiced with you on the comple
tion of the West Okanogan Valley Irri
gation project, take this means of con
gratulating you on the consummation
of your project and thanking you for
two very enjoyable days in seeing your
beautiful country.
We feel the utmost confidence that
your long and patient efforts are now
to be rewarded by bountiful harvests
from your fertile fields. Signed—
Hiram C. Gill, Mayor of Seattle; E.
A. Anderson, Pres. Western Drygoods
Co.; J. T. Hardeman, Pres. J. T. Hard
eman Hat Co.; H. C. Henry, Pres. Nor
thern Life Insurance Co.; F. T. Fischer
Fischer Bros. Whilesale Grocers; Car
roll B. Graves, Attorney; Dan. W.
Bass, associate manager of the Hotel
Frye; Geo. Algers, Algers Milling Co.;
A S. Kldridge Northwest Buick Co.;
Deo. Schwabacher, Schwabacher Hdw.
Co.; Samuel J. Wetterick. Trans. Bu
reau Chamber of Commerce; Leonard
Martin, Northwestern Mutual Fire In
surance; W. L. Bilger, Seattle Hdw.
Co.; Roy O. Hadley, Ass’t. Secy. Seattle
Chamber of Commerce; F. W. Graham,
Immigration Agent, G. N. Ry.
The weather during the celebration
was a good omen. The raeterological
conditions on those occasions would
indicate that Providence approves of
the irrigation system. Tuesday, Wed
nesday and Thursday of last week
were the first three consecutive pleas
ant days the valley has experienced in
months. But no sooner had the cele
bration closed at Tonasket last Thurs
day evening than one of those health
giving, although unappreciated, Oka
nogan zephyrs swept down from the
high places, howling like fun and ac
companied by a very low temperature.
Had the same conditions prevailed
Wednesday and Thursday last the cele
bration would have been a dismal fail
ure.
OROVILLE, WASHIN VTON, JUNE 16. 1916
THE MYSTERY UNSOLVED.
The date for holding the examina
tions of A. .1. Wlckersham. Angus Mc
l-ean and I.ester Armstrong, charged
by a coroner’s Jury with direct or In
direct responsibility for the death of
Henry Hofmeier, was set tor Friday
last, but was continued over until Sat
urday at 1 o’clock p, ni. At the hour
fixed Prosecuting Attorney Johnson,
Deputy Sheriff Ward, the three accus
ed men and two or three Canadian of
ficials were present. Judge Parsons
was prepared to conduct the proceed
ings. As the crime was committed in
Btitish Columbia, if a crime was com
mitted at all, the prosecuting attorney
and sheriff had no Jurisdiction In the
ease, and offered to turn the prisoners
over to the British Columbia officials,
and they could have charge of the ex
amination. These ofifcers, who claim
lo have made a thorough investigation
did not feel that sufficient evidence
could he secured to convict any one of
the crime, ami declined to curry on i u
examination or go further into the
matter at that time. Under the circum
stances, ail that Hie Judge could do
was to dismiss the case and discharge
the prisoners.
Prosecutor Johnson stated that at
no time did the county officers feel,
conisderjng the nature of the evidence
that the case could be taken up and
prosecuted in this county as the alleg
ed crime was committed outside of the
jurisdiction of the county and state.
In the face of the findings of the cor
oner’s Jury the local officers could do
nothing more nor less than hold the
accused for the action of the Canadian
officers. When the case was referred
to those officers the responsibility of
tlie county officers ended.
'<•»'
J. C. Martin is building a residence
on ills Lakeview orchard tract, east of
town where he will make his home. Mr.
Marlin has lived on Palmer mountain
almost since that eminence was first
discovered, but the winters are too cold
for him after the accumulation of years
and so he decided lo come down into
the valley to make a home. He has a
fine tract under the ditch and will
make an attractive home of It in a very
few years.
D. C. Heney of Portland, chief en
gineer in charge of the irrigation sys
tem on behalf of the West Okanogan
Valley Irrigation district, was in town
several days this week inspecting the
system as it nears completion, and see
ing that the contract is carried out in
accordance with plans and specifica
tions. Mr. Heney is considered one of
the best authorities on irrigation con
struction in the west, and aside from
his exalted professional standing is
personally a charmingly affable gen
tleman to meet.
J. V. Richards of Spokane, practical
and experienced mining engineer, ar
rived here Monday evening and spent
some days investigating and examin
ing mining properties in this vicinity.
Mr. Richards is not only thorough and
capable in his profession but a young
man who can be depended upon to
give an honest decision in matters of
this kind submitted to Ids judgment, if
a property he examines, no matter
where located, possesses merit lie will
so report, otherwise, otherwise. We
trust he will find merit in the claims
he has been employed to pass upon, as
a favorable report would be followed
by extensive development.
It is just possible that Otto Case may
elect to become a permanent resident
of Oroville. He is considering that
step, and should he make a favorable
decision this community would be for
tunate. Mr. Case has for years been a
prominent citizen of Seattle, and when
a man reaches prominence in a city the
size of Seattle, where naturally many
bright men collect, there is something
to him far beyond the ordinary in abil
ity, resourcefulness and forcetulness.
Mr. Case has held high office in King
county, and has been secretary of one
of tbe largest commercial organiza
ions of the west, and is so popular that
he could be elected to almost any of
fice to which he might aspire. He has
even been very favorably mentioned
as available timber for governor.
Considerable interest is being mani
fested in mining property, or the min
eral conditions of this neighborhood
judging from the frequent visits from
mining experts and engineers, lately.
Several well known mining men have
been in Oroville during the past few
weeks, and from here made excursions
out into the surrounding country to
look at mining claims. Some of our
residents have also recently taken an
interest in mines. C. W. Smith, assayer
and chemist, has been actively engag
ed this spring and most of the winter
looking up various deposits in the sur
rounding country that showed evidence
of merit. Out of all this activity we
may expect some good results, and
should those results end in a produc
ing mine, or chemical works, there will
be a great influx of both capital and
population.
A GREAT WORK.
Traveling up and down the valleys
of the Simtikameen and Okanogan,
within the lines of the West Okanogan
Valley Irrigation system, one is struck
with the magnitude and excellency of
the work that has been performed. Not
only is that impression created by the
stability and thoroughness of construc
tion itself, the surmounting of topo
graphical difficulties, especially where
the flume is carried for long distances
along the face of perpendicular cliffs,
but to that more important feature,
the engineering feat that carried the
ramification of ditches and flumes so
many miles, over so many inequalities
of surface, and yet with such perfect
alignment and such exact calculation
as to elevation that the water flows
with Just such a regulated current as
Is required throughout the entire
length of the system. To the uninitiat
ed this Is the marvelous aspect of this
big irrigation system. Of course It re
quires engineering skill and familiar
ity with elevations to direct the husky
c rews; that performed the physical la
bor of digging the ditches and building
the flumes. That, however, Is not what
attracts the particular attention of the
observer. That which astounds him is
how with instrument and the mystery
of figures the engineer carried his
lines so accurately around sharp
curves, over hills and draws, around
the face of rocky cliffs where a fly can
hardly find a foothold, where straight
lines are few and far between and of
only short distances at best for many
miles, and yet when water is at last
turned' into the channels thus laid out
there is not a variation sufficient to
check the flow of water in the direc
tion intended by those who laid out the
course over which that water was to
flow. It Is wonderful, and reflects
much credit upon the ability, skill and
efficiency of the corps of engineers
that laid out this irrigation system.
EXPLANATION.
editor Gazette — •
in’-vour report of -the sale of the
Similkameen power plant last week
you state that Sivyer & Enloe took over
this property at the same figure offered
by Messrs. Kipp & Taylor. As the state
ment published would leave room for
suspicion that the bid from Milwaukee
was not made in good faith, I wish to
say that this bid was $27,000.00 for a
54 per cent interest in the plant, on a
basis of $50,000.00 for the entire prop
erty, leaving the other 46 per cent rep
resenting $23,000.00, free and clear to
the Haggerty estate for its interest.
This $27,000.00 was paid in cash two
days before the final order of the court
on June 3rd, at which time Sivyer &
Enloe appeared and raised their for
mer bid to $51,000.00. or $1,000.00 more
than the Kipp & Taylor bid.
L. L. WORK,
President Similkameen Power Co.
GOOD ROARS REPORT.
The county association stands for
better roads in Okanogan county. We
work for efficiency and economy in
road building. We believe that every
section of our county is entitled to
good, passable roads and that these
roads should then be made better.
We work with county and state offi
cials in the betterment of the roads of
the county and state. The association
is strongly organized, every road club
having ten or more members is entitl
ed to a trustee. The trustees will meet
sometime before the next county road
levies are made and every association
should be represented through its
trustee. Local associations are paying
la their dues. No pay goes to any offi
cer but funds are needed for the con
vention expenses. A united effort will
bring good results.
Treasurer’s Report
Rec. Bal. from Cec’y. Culver....s 9.26
Rec. membership fees at county
convention 29.00
Individual membership, paid since 2.00
From F. D. Culver, collections
membership from R. W. Hun
ner, Brewster 16.00
H. W. Champneys, Sec’y. Loomis
G. R. Assn 10.00
W. R. Moore, Wauconda G. R.
Assn 14.00
Mrs. Wm. Briley, Sec’y. Wanicut-
Golden G. R. Assn 8 00
F. B. Hixson, Sec’y. Palmer Mt.
G. R. Assn 6.50
Ben. Longbottom, Sec'y. Huntley
Unit Okanogan Co. G. R. Assn. 5.50
Total ....$100.26
Copies of the new by-laws of the
County Association have been printed
and are ready for distribution to local
clubs and associations.
Yours for better roads
E. RISTE, Sec'y.-Treas.
RETURNED AFTER MAN YDAY!*.
Mr. and Mrs, John Isenhart, of We
natchee, came up to the celebration
last week and remained over several
days visiting with friends. It was the
first time in fifteen years that the
isenharts have been in Orovllle, and it
is hardly necessary to add that they
were surprised at the many changes
that have taken place here within that
period. Mr. Iseuhart lived In the old
village of Oro at one time and was
connected with the Washington Com
mercial company, a mercantile corpo
ration that in the heyday of its exist
ence had branches in Oro, Ix>omis,
Riverside and Conconully. At that
time the store was located in the far
south end of the present town, where
a stone cellar is the last remnant of
that once flourishing establishment, it
was a nucleus around which several
buildings were scattered. Once upon
a time, some fifteen years ago, fire
swept the store out of existence, en
tailing a heavy loss upon the company,
and Mr. Isenhart, who lived above the
store, was a sore sufferer. From Oro
Mr. Isenhart went to Conconully, from
there to Chelan, and a few years ago
located In Wenatchee, where he is at
the head of a large furniture stare.
The few old timers living here wuen
the Isenharts were a portion of the
population were delighted to meet
them again. It is hoped that they will
not wait another fifteen years before
visiting Orovllle again, or there will
be a lot of us ancients who will not
be on earth to greet them.
R. L. Phillips of Chelan was circu
lating about town this week. Mr. Phil
ips resided in Oroville a number of
years ago, and like all those who have
been away from the town any length
of time expresses surprise at the im
provements that have taken place
within a comparatively short period.
Now that he is here, Mr. Phillips may
decide to remain permanently.
The Russians have suddenly come to
life again on the eastern front, and
are driving the Austrians back on the
run. According to the latest returns
the Russians have captured 118,000
Austrians and an enormous quantity of
munitions of war. On the western front
the fighting continues as fierce and
bitter as at any time since hostilities
commenced, with thousands of lives
paid for every foot of ground won.
There seems to be no hope of an early
peace at this price.
Marshal Wilson wishes to notify dog
owners that he now has tags for distri
bution. if you have a dog and are in
terested in his future health and wel
fare you will at once put in an appli
cation for a tag. The ordinance relat
ing to dogs is drastic. It requires that
every dog- shall wear a collar and a
tag. After the first of July the dog
without those decorations is liable to
sudden death. The marshal has no
choice. He is instructed to shot such
dogs as fail to exhibit the collar and
tag. Better comply with the law than
mourn for the pup.
Geo. J. Hurley was over from Loo
mis Monday. Mr. Hurley reports that
he has had a number of letters from
people considering investments in land
in this part of the county under the
irrigation systems, but that they have
postponed coming until the Colville
reservation is thrown open, when they
can kill two birds with one stone, so
to speak. They will be able to take a
chance in the drawing and on the
same trip have an opportunity to look
over the country for Investments.
There is no doubt but that many who
fall to draw prizes on the reservation
will extend their investigations and
if they really wish to locate in the
country will not fail to secure irri
gated lands.
C. M. Fassett, head of the commis
sion that has the regulating of the
affairs of the city of Spokane, was
among the visitors here during the big
celebration, and in his speech during
the dedicatory exercises stated that he
came through this part of the valley
or. horseback 20 years ago. He ex
pressed surprise at the changes that
have taken place in the town and val
ley, for at the time of his visit a score
of years ago there were hardly a suffi
cient number of houses in existence to
designate as a cross roads hamlet.
Mr. Fassett predicted that within a
comparatively brief period still greater
changes would take place here than
have marked the passage of the past 20
years.
There Is something more than an
empty name about the Good Roads As
sociation at Tx>omis. That organization
was organized to look out for roads
in that neighborhood and see that they
are kept in good condition. When the
road supervisor has money to spend
he interviews the members of the asso
ciation and secures their advice as to
where to spend the cash to the best ad
vantage. If a member of the associa
tion discovers rocks in the road the
nearest rancher is requested to re
move the same and send in his bill to
the road supervisor. By this eternal
vigilance the roads leading into and
out of Loomis are kept up, and it Is
an example that other good roads asso
ciations could follow to advantage.
TKI.MTY EPISCOPAL CHDBCfI.
The Sunday school will meet every
Sunday morning at 10 a. m. All are
cordially invited. Next service will be
Sunday morning June 23 at 11 a. m.
The Kev. John l.eacher will conduct
ihe service.
Rev. O. H. Severance.
Vicar.
M. E. CHURCH SERVICEO.
Sunday school at 10 a. m. Preaching at
11 a. in. Sermon by the pastor. Bpworth
I.eagiie at 7 p. in. Preaching service at
8 p. m. Sermon by the pastor.
Everybody welcome; everbody invited;
everybody come. The homelike church
and the stranger's friend.
W. W. STUITE, Pastor.
STRAWBERRIES AND ICE CREAM.
The ladles of Trinity Guild will serve
Strawberries. Ice cream and cake on the
lawn of the Civic I.eague park next
Thursday evening, June 22. Everybody
Invited to attend.
Trinity Guild will meet with Mrs. Gee.
Whistler Wednesday afternoon, June 21.
hioti Prince returned to Orovllle last
Thursday evening from a visit to Spo
kane.
Miss Maude Keeler has gone to Spokane
to have her eyes treated and will be ab
sent about ten days.
Summer lilt the valley this week good
and hot, and In consequence the swim
ming hole has become a popular resort.
Mrs. C. L. Cleadennon and children are
down from Orovilie visiting Mrs. Clen
deuon's sister, Mrs. Prank Putnam.—
Tonasket Times.
It is reported that Mrs. Pierce, motbei
of Tom Pierce and Mrs. J. M. Richmond,
of Lioomis, Is very seriously 111 at the
home of her daughter at that place.
Miss Louise Studley left Saturday for
Seattle where she will visit with Mrs.
Harry Evans, formerly Miss Mildred
Mills of this place.
Mrs. F. V. Covert was a passenger (or
Everett Wednesday morning, where ehe
goes us a delegate from the local lodge
to ttie session of the grand lodge of the
Eastern Star.
Perry Hlackler, who attended the Uni
versity of Washington during a portion
of the winter, returned to his home last
Friday evening. He expects to go back
to the University next winter.
Tuesday afternoon two young men
hammered each other on Main street to
make an Orovilie' ’holiday until Deputy
Sheriff Burden put an end to the pro
ceedings. The young men were fined by
Judge Ferguson for their exhibition ot
savagery.
J. A. Spencer, of the Cosy Corner ranch
has the thanks of this office for a lateral
supply of the delicious strawberries the
Cozy Corner I- noted for. It was a pleas
ure to see Mr. Spencer out again, al
though wobbly, after his long and serious
selge of Illness.
While crossing the river at the power
house Wednesday on his way to work
on the ditch, Lawrence Dallam struck
his right arm against a sharp butcher
knife that a companion was carrying,
cutting a deep gash near the elbow. Or.
Ithenwinkle sewed up the cut and the
young man Is on the idle list for a week
or ten days.
The first mention that we have seen In
the Tonasket Times of the Orovllle dedi
catory celebration, from its first incep
tion to the present time, was in the last
issue of that paper, when It generously
and profusely expressed appreciation for
Hie appearance in that town on the date
of ttie Tonasket celebration of several
hundred citizens of this place.
The Okanogan Independent states that
.1. 11. Hughes, late county agriculturalist
of tins county, was recently examined
by physicians at Portland who pronounc
ed him afflicted with cancer of the
stomach. Mr. Hughes has given up his
Colorado position and will go east to be
operated on. This alarming news will be
read with sincere regret by all who are
acquainted with the gentleman.
W. Leonard Davis, who made an envi
able record during the past two years
as instructor in the high school, and
through whose efforts the athletic feat
ures of the school were brought up to
such a high state of efficiency, has de
cided not to teach again next year. He
will hold a position with the Union Title
and Trust company, and will make as
great a success in the business office
us he has In the school room.
Last week Geo. Bartell sold a Stude
baker car to Riley Hulbert, of Tonas
ket. Now what do you think of that?
Riley Hurlbut, that old time cow man,
manipulating a car. Why, he’ll be won
dering ail tlie time why the blamed
tiling don't buck, and through a habit
of a lifetime will involuntarily attempt
to apply the spurs. The glory of the
Okanogan is departing before the In
troduction of new fangled ideas. In
another year or two the cow boy will
be riding the range In an auto.
Orovllle turned out en masse last
Thursday to the Tonasket celebration,
showing that up this way a most
friendly feeling prevails towards our
neighboring town. One hundred and
twenty five tickets were sold for To
nasket at this station Thursday morn
ing, and every automobile in town
went down loaded to the guards. Oro
ville people very materially swelled
the Immense crowd that was present
at Tonasket on the day of Its celebra
tion and this place had the appearance
of being deserted.
The business of the local telephone
system, both immediately in town and
long distance, is growing almost with
leaps and bounds. Only a short time
ago one person could answer all calls
and then enjoy long intervals of re
pose. That was before the public had
become educated up to the use of the
telephone for the transaction of busi
ness, or means of social calls. Now It
is different. It requires relays to keep
tab on the calls, and operators must
freeze close to the stool and be nim
ble with the plugs In order to meet the
demands of the impatient patrons. If
business continues to increase It will
not be long until the switchboard will
have to be enlarged and a flock of op
erators employed to meet the demands
of the public for service.
91.60 PER TIAR
