EEE MPA0 c mERpAD
TODAY'S PRICES
M xhan banV note (Mate bills) 1361c
Mm. an peaoa 47 Mexican sold 19 Vi
NicionalM bllla 1"" Carranza cy.
nidi 14 (n-) ? Bar silver (Hn
i A Harmon .UotaUoos 63 Cop
it 3-S ' Graln lower Livestock
HOME EDITION
VKtTJIER TORKCAST.
KI IkaM ami we-t Texm. fair; Nw Hex
ftp nd Arizona, fair, wanner.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
EL PASO. TEXAS. FRIDAY EVENING. JUNE 16; 1916.
SINGLE COPT FIVE CENTS.
.I.LIVERED A-.TUHLRE to CXNTS A MONTH.
SIXTEEN PAGES TODAY.
EMOCRATS FIGHT PLATFORM ADOPTION
riKe
ome in a
AUSTRIANS ABANDON CZERNOWITZ
Is
Month
Called, the Strike Would
Be Greatest in History
Of Railroading.
EIGHT HOUR DAY
IS ONE OF ISSUES
Men Also Demand Time
And a Half Pay For
Overtime Work..
rEW YORK. June 16. Ballots for
voting on what may be the great
est general railroad strike in the
j istory of the country will.be sent out
t.robably tomorrow, for a vote to be
taken by the four unions of railway em-l-loyes
on the Question of authorizing
their officials to call the strike.
TltA .-ii tti , -
The ballots will be sent out from the
neudquarters of the union officials here.
The question as formulated today reads:
'Are you prepared to withdraw from
the sen-ice of your railroad in the ab
sence of a settlement agreeable to the
comnjittee and your representatives?"
If the men favor a, strike, the union
representatii es would seek another con
ference with the railway managements
before resorting to a strike.
electionDuring- 'Month.
Within a mo-nth more than half a.
"Million workers on American railroads
will vote on the advisability of calling
a general strike to enforce their de
mands for an eight hour may staA time
and a half for overtime.
Hope ol adjusting the dissute
t hrough the conference was abandoned i
hen tne railroad1, submitted a tenta
u e fomprorms offer to the men
-r.a.! tmg their demands, but elimlnat
irg tht majority of existing "double
po-nperiraiion" rules.
Tne leaders and the 500 delegates of
the four Uotherhoods of trainmen, en
gineeis, firemen and conductors, who
a" ended the conference decided on the
necessit for the strike vote at a secret
it --tmg following th. break
TlWflS
ITS AUTO
Wealthy Colorado Parmer
and Wife Dead, Daughter
Injured in Collision.
Colorado Springs. Colo., June 16. I
W. Gardner, aged 55, a wealthy retired
farmer of Longmont, Colo., and wife.
Emma, aged 45. were killed and a
daughter. Mrs. Harley- G. Hard, aged
25. wife of the manager of the Boulder
plant of the Western Light & Power
oompany, at Bonlder, Colo., was per
haps fatally Injured when the auto
mobile in which they were traveling,
was struck by Rock Island train No. S
on a grade crossing, about five miles
south of Colorado Springs this morn
Ins The accident occurred at 8:38 oclock,
when Gardner's watch stopped, as the
party was returning from .Pueblo,
where they had been visiting a daugh
ter of the Gardners. The cause of the
accident is not known.
Train officials claim that they ad I
not see the car at th erossinc- nnrt .
irs. Hard, the only survivor. Is un- i
able to talk
TO MAKE PROBE FO CHARGE
THAT DELEGATES HAD PASSES
Austin. Tex., June 16. It was learned
today that the railroad commission has
under consideration the investigation of
sons not entitled to them.
The commission has requested the
lines entering San Antonio to furnish it
with a list of free passes issued during
the period covering the convention.
The matter may be referred to the at-
torney generars aeparttnent for an in
vestigation. PLVTT BECOMES GENERAL
MANAGER OF OREGON LINE
-. ,, . -- .i
X: rJatt.Vasslsan,t, EeJ?e?l manager of J
".!,1 eS"iSUV ?J-
will become vice president and cen
tral manager of the Oregon Short Line
Railroad company and vice president of
the Union Pacific Railroad company,
July 1, it was announced today.
AMERICAN AIRMAN BREAKS"
LEG IN JAPANESE FLIGHT
Tokis. Japan, June 16. A dispatch
to tne tiocm snimoun trom bappero.
iioKKaiao, says mat Armor sraitn, an
AmrlMn avlatn, ka hrnlf.B hi, 1p- .
American aviator, has broken his leg
airplane
log an exhibition flight.
Now They
NEW YORK. June 16. Ballots for "OTwM!" ,? accom
. . . ... . ipany her home. Later Mrs. Flanders
voting on what may be the great- and her i7yearold son. Mr. and Mrs.
Act o-anatHi! tmttuio J - !! !,. 1 1 -. AVt.1. a... a. n aT
H I
KILLS HE 10 IKITHEfl INT
FHyie;DiNMHT
Eawlins, Wyoming, Man
Pays Death Penalty for
Double Murder.
Rawlins, Wyo.. June 1- Willard
Flanders, convicted wife murderer, f
hanged at the state penitentiary earlv
today. The drop fell at 2:f.
He was
pronounced dead at 3:07.2.
Flanders was awakened from a sound
sleep at 1:56 and taken by warden
Alston direct to the deaxh house.
HIatory of the Crime.
Flanders t?r convicted of shooting
his wife and neighbor. Samuel Aultx,
from ambush July IT, 1914. The shoot
ing occurred on the road between Flan
der"s ranch and Hulett, Wyo.
Accordirrfr to evidence offered by the
prosecution at the trial, trouble between
the two men was accentuated by the
appearance of Aultx at the Flanders
ranch, while Flanders was choking his
wife following her refusal to sign a
deed to permit him to sell property
owned Jointly at Chadron. Neb. Mrs.
Hulett.
KtlU Neighbor and "Wife.
Flanders bv a short cut throueh the
hills reached a point on the road the
four must pass. As they approached
i Flanders stepped onto the highway, ac-
coBteo .auiiz wun an win aoa snot
. Wm turneo upon h!s wife and ,, nsr
while on her knees she pleaded for
i 1"- He made no effort to molest his
son and Mrs. Aultz. who fled, but re
turned to his ranch and awaited the ar
rival of offiers.
Te case was transferred from Crook
county to Sheridan on change of venue
and the trial held in December, 1914.
Fifty witnesses, including alienists,
who testified for prosecution and de
fence regarding Flanders's mental con
dition, were calle'd. The defence ad
mitted the killing and depended on the
unsanity plea, offering much testimony
to support the contention that Flanders
was incurably insane.
Inaantty No Defence.
Id his "instructions to the Jury Judge
V B. Parmelee said: "The law reeasr
sizes that man may he-insaae on some
subjects and not on others, and if
murder Is deliberately planned and
executed iBsanlty 1b no defence. '
The case was given to the jury
Christmas eve and. while children of
Sheridan were singing Christmas carols
I around a municipal Christmas tree m
, the courthouse yard, the jury returned
i a verdict or guilty.
An appeal to the Wyoming supreme
court resulted in the affirmation of
findings and sentence. On June 9. last.
tne state board or pardons refused a
petition to commute Flanders's sen
tence to life imprisonment
SLAUGHTER IS
naiNirr
Instructed Verdict for Ac
quittal Given in Case
of Banker.
Pueblo, Colo.. June 16. W. B. Slaugh
ter, former president of the defunct
Mercantile National bank, was freed zt
charges of fraud in connection with
the bank's failure through an Instruct
ed verdict today in the district court.
Judge J. W. Sheafor, of Colorado
Springs, who had been called to sit in
the case in place of judge C. S Essex,
of this city, who was a depositor in the
bank, granted the motion for a directed
verdict this morning, after attorney J.
W. Bailey, for the defence, had asked
for such action when the prosecution
completed Its case yesterday afternoon.
Slaughter recently was acquitted of
charges of embezzlement in connec
tion with the closing of the bank when
,, , ,,,. , , n- .
' " w.uc wn
court.
TEXAS CANDIDATES NAMES
APPEAR ON BALLOTS BY LOT
Austin, Tex, June 16. -Answering
numerous inquiries as to the order In
which the names of the candidates
"Mh'J?ri ?.nMSa. f.;5.ef5a,.e'ine
Z"Z '"Z't b."' ZLZ, y th. tf.7tV ,,ZL
5aJ?n 'ImJ'S Liliv? ? tt..
""".""J'S"! 'Tl0 J
'H?1."?.?. -01er,i.D-YA,ciL!h5 "fmtl
J."" '-' " "- "'T"l"L X,UZ
district or county and precinct officers -i
i snail appear on tne ticKet ana mat sucn
oraer snail De oy lot.
Many of those making inquiries were
laboring under the impression that the
names of the candidates should be
piacea on tne omciai nauot in tne or-
tificate from the state executive com-
niittee. It is pointed out that the law
plainly provides that the names of can
didates shall be determined by lot to
be placed on the ballot.
DELAYED SHOT KILLS TWO
MINERS IN UNITED VERDE
Jerome, Ariz.. June 16. Kmmet
0Grady. 23 years old, and Peter Te
nch, zs, were killed by a delayed shot
in a winze or the United Verde mine,
1,A t.fnf t hll. ,., -. (
I www,. w. .. n,c ,,,, kv inc.9.
A- verdict of accidental death was
brought in by the coroner's jury.
Are Lined
Statement Says He "Was
Urged To Get in Lifeboat
But Did Not Do So.
London, Eng.. June 16. An official
statement Issued here today gives de
tails of the sinking of the British
' cruiser Hampshire, on which field
marshal Earl .Kitchener lost his lire.
The statement is based on reports
given by the dozen survivors of the
disaster indicate that lord Kitchener
went down with the vessel. It cays in
part:
"As the men were going to their
stations before abandoning the ship,
lord Kitchener, accompanied bj a na
val officer, appeared. The latter said:
Make way for lord Kitchener.' Both
ascended to the quarter deck. Sub
sequently four military officers were
seen there, walking aft on the port
side.
"The captain called lord Kitchener
to the forebrldge. near where the cap
tain s boat was noisieo. ine captain
also called on lord Kitchener to enter
the boat. ;
"It Is unknown If lord Kitchener en
tered It or what happened to the boat.
"Large numbers of the crew used
life saving belts and waistcoats, which
proved effective in keeping them
afloat. Three rafts were safely
launched and with about iO to TO men
or. each, got clear. It was Jaylight
up to about 11. Though rafts with
these large numbers of men got away.
in one only six survived, xne survi
vors all report that the men gradually
dropped off. even died aboard the rafts
from exhaustion and exposure to cold."
Laat Man to See Kitchener.
The last man who saw Earl Kitch
ener alive was seaman Hogcrson, a
survivor of the Hampshire, who ar
rived at his home near London yes
terday from the Orkneys, and describes
in the Daily Mail how the field mar
shal died.
"Of those who left the ship and
have survived." said Rogerson, "I was
the one who saw Kitchener nut. He
went down with the & St5 ?? !
leave ier. I saw Cant. Savin help his
boat crew to clear away nis gaiiery.
At the same time captain was calling
to Kitchener to cprne to his boat Ow
ing to the noise made by the wind
and sea. Earl Kitchener could not hear
him
"When the explosion occurred. Earl
Kitchener walked calmly from the
captain's cabin and went up a ladder
on the quarter deck.
"I do not think Earl Kitchener got
into the boat. When I sprang to a
raft, he was still on the starboard side
of the quarter deck, talking with his
officers."
GERMAN LOSSES MUCH LESS
SAYS OFFICIAL STATEMENT
Berlin, Germany (Via London. June
lfil An official statement issued to
day and referring to the message of i
admjral fair John jemcoe to tne me no i i London. EnK june 16. An alleged
the British fleet expressing the opinion Uncensored dispatch describing the riot
that the German losses in. the Skagger- , ,n AtBes la8t MoBiay night was
ack battle was not smaller than the , pubiighed here today.
British, saying: j "Scenes of disorder occurred in varl-
"Against this we point out thewm. I ong of the town- tne dispatch
parlson of losses officially published . nri -j center of the disorder was
tonnaca of German war vessels of 60.
" ci". uj"is - . "7"in !
720 against the British loss of 117.150,
where only the English vessels and de
stroyers were taken into account those
losses which have been officially ad
mitted on the English side.
"Accordlng to statements of English
prisoners, vessels were sunk, among
them the dreadnought Warsplte.
"From the English side, the officer
losses announced were X43 killed or
missing. 51 wounded: our losses, in
cluding engineers sanitary officers,
paymasters, ensigns, petty officers, are
172 dead or missing and 41 wounded.
Thtnal irwti nmnnCT the English CTeWs
. fy o T,.,hiiohi bv the admiralty
are sis dead or missing. 513 wounded. I
On the German side the losses are 2414 I
dead or missing. 449 wounded.
Sheldon Hotel Site Was Once Sold For a Song;
Present Carnegie Square Was a Cemetery
Cottonwood Trees Grew Where First National Is Now, Blacksmith Shop on An-
gelus Site; W. H. Austin Quotes Eealty Prices of 1881 Compared to 1916;
Says El Paso Will Have 150,000 By 1920.
. ..y.OUR story of the shifting of
V the center of El Paso's popu-
- latlon, the making over of the
landscape, the changing of the skyline,
and the immense difference in real es
tate values, since you came to EI Paso,
is what The Herald would like to have."
I told W. IL Austin.
"The growth of El Pao has beeu
wonderful, almost incredible, in fact,
since I came here in 1S8I," he an
swered. You could almost threw a rock
across the town of El Paso at mat
time." he added. "The whole of the
town was in this immediate district."
He was sitting in his office in the First
National bank building, as -he talked.
ZVothInK ISnst of .Courthouse.
Where we are sirtintr nnnr a. chini)
of cottonwood trees grew, and some j
, " '
-iu;?c nvav uviag acre. j.te mirai v. i
the town extended in tms direction, f
from the old Central hotel. There were
I lUf . . - ,
vu.iuisifes ci A mC cwtidviik, i
! and only a few oetween this street and '
'there, with the exception ofsoine'dobe
Up For the Big Marathon Wilson Versus Hughes
DESTRDr TRACK
IF DAY
IN CITf
Russians Finally Capture the
Besieged Crown Capital
Of Bufyowina.
CITIZENSFORCED
TO GO WITH ARMY
Many Arrests Are Made By
Austrian Commander Be
fore Leaving the City.
PETROGRAD, Russia. June 16 (via
London.) Details of the reported
- evacuation of Ciernowitz by the
Austrians are given in a dispatch from
Bukowina. by way -of Bucharest, re
ceived by the semi-official Petrograd
news agency. .
The dispatch says that before aban
doning the city the Austrian authori
ties arrested a number of persons who
were forced to accompany the retreat
ing troops.
The railway rolling, stock was sent
to Ilskant and the tracks about the
city were destroyed.
Tralnloads of wounded were dis
patched to Doranvatra, 77 miles south
west of Czernowitx.
London Hears of City's FalL
London, Eng., June 16. News of the
capture of Ciernowitz reched London
-Bisratenes""lf'trift nant
fw AaW h " measore, prepared
.
the public for the fall of this Impor
tant center, and the newspapers yester
day and the day before spoke of Czer
nowitx as "a doomed town."
Japanese Guns Used.
A dispatch to the Central News from
Petrograd says that much of the ef
fectiveness of the Russian artillery in
their great Galtcian drive is due to tht
use of big Japanese guns. These guns
are said to be more powerful than any
that the Russians have had heretofore
and are charged with shells filled with
a new explosive, the destructive power
of which is' terrific.
RIOTING OCCURS IN
ATHENS, SAYS REPORT
a band or 40e ruffians, composed partiy
of secret police and escorted by SO uni-
formed police. This group visited the
residence of the French minister and
the neighborhood of the British lega
tion and hooted and howled at the en
tente and insulted the representatives
of the allies."
FOOD RIOTS RESUMED IN
ROTTERDAM; STONES THROWN
Amsterdam. Holland. June 16. Dis
turbances at Rotterdam by demonstra-
tcrs against the high price of food i
were repeated last night, especially in
the neighborhood of the town hall.
There was some stone throwing and
the police cleared the etreets bv chars -
m
ng the crowds
' BY GITHRIE SMIT1L
shacks. North of the track, there was
one 'done building, which was used for
a saloon and had a blacksmith ship
in the other end. The building stood
where the Angelus hotel is now. The
present Carnegie square was then a
graveyard for the United States army
The population of El Paso in those days
exclusive of the Spanish-American,
was not more than 506. And a great
many of those were tough citizens.
First National Mtr fur (5000.
"The E-rouna occupied by the First
National bank building, and the Coney
Island saloon, was offered in 1881 for
35000. No buyer could be found to pay
that price, but in the following year it
was sold for that figure."
"Whnt is the property worth nowr
I asked him.
"It is impossible to say. The 40 foot
front which is owned by Mrs. Delia
Lane is worth 3106,000. I don't suo-
pose you could get a price on the First
National it is increasing in value that
ft"StTh5r'JiB.w"!,Ue1,upJ,n
it - It Is perhaps the most valuable
piece or property in tne city
From sirwx) o ai.VKnoo
"The ground just across the tr.
e,.www J"i .iwa intr Sire
now occupiea oy isryan brothers store
and the business adjoining was bought
by J. R. Currie In 1881 for 31500. The
r
niHTIC PLJTFii DECLARES
I NT
Lack of Stable Government in Mexico and Loss of
American Lives Makes It Necessary for American
Troops to Occupy Temporarily Portions of Mex
ico, the Mexican Plank Declares.
""" "--""" ""
Coliseum, St. Louis, Mo., June 16. The Democratic platform as sub
mitted today to the committee before the National Democratic convention,
lollows:
The Labor Flank.
"Wa favor the sneedv enactment of
",e.lfr",f?'rai,c.li,idJ,a,,aht -HuM Pct American citizens
and the regulation of the shipment of
prison-made goods in interstate com
merce. "We favor the creation of a federal
bureau of safety in the department of
labor, to gather facts concerning In
dustrial hazards and to recommend
legislation to prevent the maiming and
killing of human beings.
"We favor the extension of the pow
ers and functions of the federal bureau
of mines.
"We favor the development upon a
systematic scale the means already be
gun under the present administration
to assist laborers throughout the na
tion to seek and obtain employment,
and the extension by the federal gov
ernment, by the same assistance and
encouragement as is now given to agri
cultural training.
we heartily commend our newiy
ilJt?L
excellent record in settling Industrial
strikes by personal advice and througu
conciliating agents.
Federal Health Control.
"We favor a thorough reconsideration
of the means and methods by which
the Federal government handles ques
tions of public health to the end that
human life may be conserved by the
elimination of loathsome disease, the
improvement of sanitation and the dif
fusion of a knowledge of a disease pre
vention. We favor establishment by the fed
erat government or tuberculosis saw- i r . ---.i. or soldiers and their
tariums for needy tuberculosis patients. wTaldli f itenUotTVoirsc
Senate Rnlea. ord of performance in this nartieaiar.
"We favor such an artertloi of'tfee f Watrrwanrnnd Flood Control,
rules of procedure of the senate of the "W renew the declaration in our
United States as wlH permit the prompt two platforms relating to the de
transactlon of the nation's legislative . velopniet of our waterways. The re-
business.
Economy and the Budget.
We demand careful economy In all
expenditures for the support of the
government, and to that end favor a
return by the house of representatives
to its former practice of initiating and
preparing all appropriation bills
through a single committee choeen
from its membership. In order that re-
sponsioiiity may oe centered, expenai- ,
tores standardized and mada uniform
and waste and duplication ,tj .the public.
service as much as possible avoided.
-no javor mis as a pracucaoie iirst
step towards a budget system.
Cllll Service.
"We reaffirm our declarations for
the rigid enforcement of the civil ser
vice laws.
Philippine Islands.
-,.-- . -..... . ...- ,
. .',.",!,? "3 'V oorae lam n..i i . f property, impose an obll-
tZMl WiL23- 2irei3L4.h,?UE ' b wMeh aliia can be discharged
further promoting self government In i 5 j- -otto-ai sovernment.
the Philippine Islands asbeing In ful- b &vor adoptiw of a liberal
flUment of the policy declared by the d oonrefcenaiva plan for the de
Democratlc party in Its last national vHoDSt and improvement of our
platform and we reiterate our en
te our en-1
dorsement of the purpose of ultimate
independence for the Philippine islands.
expressed in the preamble of that mens
ure.
Woman Suffrage.
"We recommend the extension of
franchise to the women of the country
by the states upon the same terms as
to men.
Protection of Citizens.
"We again declare the policy that the
sacred rights of American citizenship
must be preserved at home and abroad,
and that no treaty with anv other irov-
eminent shall receive -the sanction of
our government which does not ex
pressly recognize the absolute equality
or all our citizens. Irrespective of race.
creed, or
previous nationality and
which does not recognize the right of
sum of 3150.000 was refused for it some ! of America, a critical hour in the his
time ago. t tory of the world. Upon the record
lhe Dronertv whore the Roberta- I
Banner building, the Morgan building
and the one where the Kress store are ,
"-, wia as late as laoo lor is.- internal aeveiopmeni: upon tne recora (
' I of the Democratic administration, which i A few women in the front row of the
'-The Sheldon block sold In 1881 for a i has maintained the honor, the dignity balcony, wearing su (Trace, sashes md
ridiculously low price. I do not recall 'and the Interests of the United States. yVZ. , .J, "f mnraS- s" and
what the figure was, bat the property and at the same time retained the re- DM-e' hissed the governor's remarks.
sold for 3400.000 a few months, ago. spect and friendship of all the na- Mingled applause and hissing followed
"The Bassett block, on the corner of , tlons of the world and upon the great their conclusion.
Mills and Stanton streets was sold In i policies for the future strengthening cf c-.,. a.- . ,w
18S0 for less than 36000. The property the life of our countrj. the enlargement snor s-on- supporting the cora
ls now worth a fortune. . . .. I of our national vision and the ennobllne ! niittee "draft" said governor Ferguson
RlrwV It Aaat nf th ritv nail. ftAlit I
for 34000 in 1882. It could not be forth above, we appeal with confidence
bought now for 3100.000. 'to the voters of the country.
"The block where MaJ. Bill Fewel has , Critical Hour In Country's History,
his residence, which is block 211 of , The platform concludes:
Campbell addition, was bought by him "This is a critical hour in the his
in 1882 for 3100. About 10 years ago a tory of America, a critical hoar In
fourth of the block adjoining was sold
to A. P. Coles for 318.000.
Lola for 925
"I might go on. almost indeflntely,
and tell vou the '80 prices and values,
as compared to those of today, but it
Mould be repetition. Residence lots
that are now worth thousands of dol
lars were offered in the early days for
375 and 3100 with no demand at those m time retained the respect and I " . wi. vvuw,n ,i . i
prices Lots ii. i Stmse? Heights, I friendship of all the nations In the Jvention. after almost M hours of delib
Heights, on I :
Col. 3.1
(Continued on page S. Col. 3.)
.
SREPMETIALL
vnn,..ii.... m. -!... .-
in tneir rights not only at norae Dut
abroad, and any country having a gov
ernment should be held to strict ac
countability for any wrongs dose them,
either to person or property.
"At the earliest practical opportu
nity, our country should strive earn
estly for peace among the warring na
tions of Europe and seek to bring about
the adoption of the fundamental prin
ciple of justice and humanity, that all
men shall enjoy equality of right and
freedom from discrimination in the
lands wherein they dwelL
Prison Reform.
"We demand that the modern princi
ples of prison reform be applied in our
federal penal system. We favor such
work for prisoners as shall give them
training in remunerative occupations,
' hersedom-pnt .
so inai mey maj mane an nonest iiv
setting apart of the net wages of the
prisoner to be paid to his dependent
family or to oe reserved for his own
use upon bis release: the liberal ex
tension of the principles of the federal
parole law, with due regard both to
the welfare of the prisoner and tne
interests of society: the adoption of
the probation system, especially in the
case of first offenders not convicted of
serious crimes.
Pcnalons.
, "We renew the declaration of recent
! nmnntii nlatronita ralatin? to cen-
I cent devastation or tno lower jsmmis-
i ,, .. .. 1 ..Lb ..tlnn.
Isippi aiiejr oau mwrft uv& ottm
by floods, accentuates the movement
for the regulation of river flow by ad
ditional bank and levee protection be
low and diversion, storage and control
. ot the flood waters above, and their
utilisation for beneficial purposes in
' the reclamation of arid and swamp
lavuia- ami lAAfaaMllnt flf TVAtr MW
er Instead or -permitting tne iiooas i
to conunne as heretofore, agents of
SesSuction. We bom that the control
0f ,e mmwMU river is a national
SJ-i," The 'pVesen anon of the
, j.thll of ,,- w.ters for DUrnoaes of
navigation, the building of levees and
works of bank arotection to maintain
the integrity of its channel and pre
vent the overflow of Its valley result
ing in the interruption of interstate
commerce, the disorganization of the
! mafl sorrta. and the enormoua loss
V.UU.H .ut iin v,tftrtv with
nHuwT anJ afficiencv so as to ner
mit their navigation by vessels of
standard draft.
Alaska.
"It has been and will be the policy
of the Democratic party to enact all
laws necessary for the speedy devel
opment of Alaska and its great natur
al resources.
Territories.
"We favor granting to the people
of Alaska. Hawaii and Porto Rico the
traditional territorial government ac
corded to all territories of the United
States since the beginning of our gov
ernment and we believe the officials
apopinted to administer the govern
j ,Dould be qualified by previous bona-
or, rooae several territories
fide residence.
Bniloraemeni for Candidates.
"We unreservedly endorse our presi
dent and vice president. Woodrow
Wilson, of New Jersey, and Thomas
Riley Marshall, of Indiana, who have
performed the functions of their great
offices falthfullv and impartially and
with distinguished ability.
"In particular, we commend to the
American people the splendid diplomatic
victories of our great president, -who
has preserved the vital interests of our
government and its citizens and kept
as out of war.
"Woodrow Wilson stands today the
greatest American of his generation.
Conclusion.
"This is a critical hour in the hlstorv
above set forth whirh shows rTat ran.
structive achievement in following out ,
a consistent policy for our domestic and '
.. ...... 1,-..-.l......t i-.i - !
the history of the world. Upon the
record above set forth, which shons
great constructive achievement in fol
lowing out a consistent policy for our
domestic and internal development:
upon the record of the Democrat'c ad
ministration which hi, mlalalaad
the honor, the dignity and the inter- J
m ui me i mini ma.ts, ajta at we I
(Continued on Page :, Column 4.)
The Suffrage Plank Causes
Trouble; Ferguson Sub- ..
mils Minority Report,
FINAL CONVENTION. '
SESSION IS HEATED
Enthusiasm and Harmony
Give Way For a Time to
Spirited Debates.
COLISEUM. ST. LOUE. MO. June 16
Harmony and enthusiasm, which.
had marked the progress of the
Democratic convention, gave wav
in the final session to a heated dispute
over the adoption of the platform as
submitted to the convention by senator
Stone.
Dispute Over Suffrage.
Woman's suffrage was one of the
pointsi over which there was contro
versy. Gov. Ferguson, of Texas, sub
mitting a minority report on the suf
frage plank which he urged In a spir
ited speech. Senator Stone replied with
a defence of the platform plank on suf
frage, as adopted by the majority S9ta
of the committee.
The minority report, urged by gov
ernor Ferguson, was defeated.
The official vote was 1S1 1-3 for the
-substitute and sgg 1-2 against it.
The vote of Arizona, New Mexico and
Texas on adoption of the minority re
port on snffrage was:
Arlzoas, 6 against: New Mexico. 6
against; Texas, 12 yes; S no.
Platform Adopted.
The platform was adopted by ac
clamation after the suffrage dispute
had ended with the adoption of the ma
jority report on that prank.
The convention adjourned sine dls
after the adoption of the platform.
Ferguson Makes Fight.
Governor Ferguson declared he en
dorsed the stat rights amendment
despite its possible political inex
pediency. "The majority plank te not the con
viction of the Democratic party," he
said, "and in the desire to secure a
little political advantage this fatal
surrender of Democratic principles is
made."
"The erox of the whole situation is"
he added, "that we were told If we did!
not adopt the majority proposal -we
might lose three or foar western
states."
Plead For Old Principles.
The Texas governor pleaded in the
convention not to lay aside old and
j honored principles of the Democratic
party regarding state rights.
Governor Ferguson said president
Wilson would not be "intimidated" by
a few hundred militant sufragets. He
declared that the party should come
out squarely and sincerely on the issue.
The Texas governor asked the dele
gates to "show yourselves free and
brave enough to vote your honest con
victions." He urged the convent. on to
act "honestly and sincerely," declaring
the people would know why the pro
suffrage plank was placed in the plat
form. "Women Should Stick to Function.
The agitation for equal suffrage, gov
ernor Ferguson said, was sweeping
over the country when the women of
the country should be performing the
functions for which "God Almthtv
. " ' . wmch tOd Almighty in-
i , ... . -
had misconceived the Issue before the
convention.
"He make a man of straw and then
demolishes it." said Mr Stone
Nomination Are By Acclamation.
With the nominations of Woodrow
Wilson and Thomas R- Marshall settled
by the unanimous vote of the conven
tion at the night session, the conven
tion today took up the task of adopt-
ing the party platform of principles.
. .i. i.. .,.-
(Continued en Tage 2 Column 2)
4
