UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
I
EIGHTH YEAR
COUNCIL WILL DECJffi
ON HEALTHMEASURE
Model Ordinance Will Come
I'p Before Adjourned
Session Tonight.
KKLLOUC; BACKS IDEA
Present Trouble Is Caused
bv Lack of Proper Au
thority, He Says.
I lie
( ii Council will boh) an ad-
j iinnd meit-iig toiuglit to take up the
in.itT r nt of tin health ordinance,
uliiili uiiisi-ts of nun' articles dealing
Willi geneial health principles and
a- of enforcing these pnticiplcs in
oliiniiiia
Special effort is being made 1
liieiutieis f the council to secure an
rdin.inoe which will be at once ef
reitie and workable Several pro
visions for health facilities are on the
list of cit. ordinances at present, but
these hate not been collected and pub
lished since l'JOO, and set er.il new
things hat been found since that time
which mav aid in cit improvement.
The ordinance to be considered to
nighi contains some of the old ordi
nances with a few changes and addi
tions. The city has alwa.vs had a
Hoard of ilealth, but during the last
lew ea's this board has felt handicap
ped b a lack of authont. according
to () I) Kellogg who will submit the
ordinance
samitar) inspector is also provid
ed for in the new ordinance Three
members of the council will serve on
the Hoard of Health as arranged This
hoard will serve as a go-between
and be of value in interpreting the
I leas of tlie board to the council as
"ell as tlie ideas of the council to the
Iward.
"The objections to the old set of or
dinances," savs Mr. Kellogg, "are that
the aie not satisfactorj and work
able." The reasons he gives for this are
the iespousiliilit for looking after
the public liealth has nut been dc Unite
Iv placed, those at the pre-ent chargtd
with tlie public welfare feel handicap
ped bv a lack of authont and in-as-much
as tlie citv is engaged in a
complete revision of its ordinances,
it would mean saving of time for the
ordinances to be put in a complete and
tlii.il form
'the provision for thiee members of
tlie council serving on tlie ltoird of
Health will, it is thought, bring about
tin authority which at the present time
seems lacking.
ti. . iiwm' m:n.s oti:Mio
( d ii in Ida I'astnr llonortd at Stale
Heeling for Miiiiii:irj ttork.
The Kev Madison A Hart, pastor of
the Fust Christian Church of Colum
bia, was elected president of the State
Missionary Convention of the Chris
tian Church, held at Sedalia from June
12 to I.".. The Rev. H. A. Abbott of St.
touls is the retiring president. Tlie
Itev It II Urine) of Kansas Cit was
re-elected conesponding secretary for
next ear
The .Ministerial Association held its
meetings on the nignt of June 12 and
the morning of Juno 13. Tlie after
noon of June 1" was givem over to the
woman's missionary work in tlie state.
June' l.'i was devoted to Sundav school
and general missionarj work.
Mr Hart returned to Columbia this
morning He said that more than ."00
ell-legates attended the convention
HMorj Conference Meets.
"Tlie Qualilications of a History
Teacher" was the subject discussed at
the liistorv conference jesterdaj aft-
rnooii in Academic Hall. Prof. X. M
Treiiholme spoke for the histor) de
partment of the Universit) . K K Price
spoke from the standpoint of the
school superintendent, and I.. II. Hell
of Moberlv spoke from the standpoint
of tlie teacher Plans were laid for fu
ture conferences and for social events
the members will give. The net con
fi renc f will be Thursday afternoon
.1. It. Ilrvant Fillers Chicago I'.
James K Itrjant. who has been vis
iting his sister, Airs A It Woods. .'00
Turner avenue, left todav for Chica
go where he will attend the summer
session at the I nlverslty of Chicago
Mr Ilrvant received his A H. degree
from tlie University of Missouri in
11 J and snice that time has been su
pervisor of schools in the Philippine
IslanJs He returned to this country
Mav 1". His home is in Harncmville.
Mo.
Convention Notes
Hold llig Press Uul Frolic.
The fourth annual frolic of the St.
Louis Press Club was the big amuse
ment eent of importance for all St.
ImmU Wediiesda) night. Tlie visiting
new .super nun and rural press repre
sentatives of .Missouri were the guests
of honor at the sunset to sunrise fun-fe-t
at the Delin.ir Gardens.
I". tt. .Stephens and llrjmi 'logelhcr.
I' V. Stephens and William Jen
iiiiigs liijan in ie seated on tin- raised
platloim fur the guests ul honor. -Mr
Stephens looked iiuile chic (Reckv
Shaip would sav) in bis icd, white and
blue cai nival hat perched on the north
east corner of his head. .Mr. lir.van
tefused to dun one of the merry mak
ei's headpieces, it is said that lie
likes to show how Well he looks with
his hair parted in the middle.
.Notables l.c.ne Frolic Furl.
All of the tnotablo guests left the
fiolic about 10 p. m. Hut as I mention
ed the all.ur was advertised as from
sunset others staved later
Fount Kothvvcll Lectures.
The hrst place Hoone Countians hit
for upon arriving here is the olhce of
Fount Hothwell, collector of Internal
Hevenue, who knows more people and
more dogs in llooaie than anv other per
son in the citj. At the Press Club
fiolic Mr. Rothwell appeared in a new
role that of lecturer and narrator dur
ing the exhibition of a movie film,
showing a Central .Missouri fo hunt.
How Ihev (,'ct in Ihe Hall.
Favorite indoor spent among St.
l-ouis newspaper muii at the nomi
ii'ifng session of the convention list
night getting 4j reporters, copj
readers, editois and otlice bovs bv the
doorkeepers with live press pissea.'
Tliis is how it is done Five ma .vita
tickets enter Coliseum Tickets are
collected, given to one man who goes
out and returns a little later with 4
new bretliien. Tickets collected
again. Four more enter. So on until
the whole gang is safeh seated in the
hall.
.1. F. Hoggs a mis Man.
The convention proceeded in "legu
lar" fashion after 1 o'clock Wednes
daj afternoon At that hour James E.
Hoggs, Hoone Count' political gen
eral, hove into town with Sheriff llert
Sapp as his right hand man While
primaril in town to -ee the big doings
at the Coliseum licit dropped around
to pa his respects to Colonel Gardner
and -Mr. Hoggs is as bus as ever talk
ing his gubernatorial candidate from
Macon. John T P.arker will linish
one, two or three in the race for nomi
nation for governor this fall, accord
ing to the Hoone Count Circuit Clerk,
and one would have a hard time
convincing him that Harker will
oecup) either the second or third place
Hi the vote getting
A Case of .Mutual Ignorance.
Yesterday I interviewed a state sen
ator from Massachusetts, a delegate.
He registered (to use a "movie" term)
much sui prise when buttonholed as he
left the train in Union Station. "Why
I didn't suppose there were any news
papers west of the Alleghcnes," lie
said. And then I made the same rec
ord for ignorance when I asked him
the difference between Iloston and
Fast Hoston. From the look he gave
me I suppose the relation must be
somewhat like that of Columbia and
Mcltaiiie.
.mi:;, .s. c. ii r.M' m:iis r. . c.
(Mliccrs CltiiM-n at Annual Kiectiem
August Jlceting Place .selecteel.
The John S Jlarmaduke Chapter of
the United Daughters of the Con
federac held its annual country meet
ing with -Mrs Ilarrv Keene, north of
Columbia, estcrday.
Tliirt members attended. Tlie of
ficers elected are- President, Mrs. S.
C Hunt; first vice-president, Mrs. J.
M. 1'attcrton; second vice-president,
Mrs T. P. Sutton; third lice-presi
dent, .Mrs W W. Scott; recording sec
retary, Mrs. S. P. Smith, correspond-)
ing secretar, Mrs. llernard Hunt;
treasurer, Mrs Walter ltobinson; reg
istrar, Mrs. Hugh Maker; historian.
Miss Mary D.vsart.
The next meeting will be in August
at the home of Mrs. Walter Robinson.
The leader will be Mrs. J. M Hatter-i
ton. "Historical Seniles of Omission
:ind Commission" will be the subject.
.Miss Iliilett to ttcd Teacher.
.V marriage license was issued cs-
terda.v to Albert Victor Davies of Ful
ton and Miss Imogene Hulett of Hall?-
ville. Mis Hulett is the daughter of
Robert Hulett. She is a graduate of
William Woods College. Mr. Davies Is
an instructor of music there.
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI,
ALUS QUIET AT STEPHENS;
EVEN TEACHERS ARE GONE
Except for the swimming pool audi Fannie Mae Koss is stud big under
the business office, Stephens College
is practically deserted. All the stu-
dents have gone away for the vaca -
tion season. Some of the teachers
are still in Columbia, but the ma- in piano, is teaching u small class at
jority of them have gone elsewhere the college this summer.
for the summer. Willis Weaver, the chemistry teach-
President James M. Wood is now er, and .Miss Ardenia Chapman, who
out of town, but will be biis in the leaches home economics, are attending
Stephens College office most of the the Universit Slimmer Session. Miss
summer. I" A Collins and Ho) T.jAlthi'.i Holt, also of the home eco
J)avis are in the field soliciting stu-' mimics department, is attending the
dents for next ear. University or Chicago. The art
Three of the teachers at Stephens teacher, .Miss Madeline Flint, is tak
are now at Cambridge, Mass, attend- ing a pleasure trip through the West,
ing the Harvard summer school. .Miss .Mrs. Pearl Heauchamp, who teaches
Sarah Anderson and Miss Hlanche Latin, is spending tlie summer at Ful-
Preston, who live In Huston and who
teacli the biblical studies at Stephens,
are spending the summer in Massa
chusetts, Miss Anderson in Cambridge
.urn .miss rresiou to itosion. .viiss uva
West, teacher of Fuglish, and Miss Jo
sephine Harlow, the expression teach
er, are stud ing at Harvard this sum
mer The dean of the school of music,
Hasil I) Gauntlett, and all the music
faculty are spending their vacation in
Columbia Mr Gauntlett is teaching
piano in the Universit, and Miss
MILTON JENKINS DIES
Columbia Wood and Coal
Dealer Falls Dead on
the Street Today.
.Milton Jenkins, a local wood and. Tlie real battle or the Central -Mis-coal
dealer, living at Seventh and siuri League season promises to be at
Pairvievv streets, dropped dead today 'tlie fairgrounds here Sunday after
from a stroke of apoplexy. jnoon. Tlie .Moberly Athletics, the
Jenkins was delivering a load of league leaders, with all their stars,
wood to a negro restaurant on Seventh will be seen for tlie hrst time here this
street, and at the time complained of .season. Caldwell and Ilrvant will be
feeling bad!. As he started for the
door of the restaurant he reeled and
fell I)r A. N'orris was called but
Jenkins was dead when he arrived.
The body will be shipped to I.ad
donia. Mo , Jemkins' former home. He
is survived by his widow, Mrs. I'erline
Jenkins, and tw, d night, rs, one of
whom is married to II. I.
701 Pairvievv.
Jennings,!
iii'itr.s ri'ocitm for 'iomhht
M. I', ttill lluie lis lirst Fridii Mil
sieal Kieuing of .Session.
The hrst of tlie series of of musical
entertainments to be given during tlie
Summer Session will be tonight in the
Cniveisit auditorium. IJasil D. Gauait
lett will be director and will be assist
ed by J Kelley Alexander, who will
give several vocal selection.
Tiie program follows:
c'liiii-ortn In the It ill in stvte I'ighte nth
Centurj) Iliili (li,sT. 17.MI)
1 Allegro nniuuto
- .Vml Kite llinltii epressii,i
Z. Presto glojoso
sou it i ill A flat. Opus 110 Hit I -liovi'ii
(1770-1S.'T)
1. Moilerato mt ildle
'.' Allegro niolto
:: Ail igio
I ugue
Nins
Invietus. 11 ll tin
Alfio's Iaitrince' Soug
from C.n.illieri Itu-tii-in
Mise ignl
oiturne
I: ill i. If in I' minor
.. Clluplll (ISO"! lsl9)
Solids
1. Ke.irest I Mule thee Songs
for V.iu Clirke
J Turn te to .Me .. Old Highland
Mel.nl
:; 'the rnfor-ceii C rll Scott
Walking Tune IVrev Cralnger
Slieilierd rtnml's Diiiev IHIfour-
C inliner
I'iiix I'ollits (Will o' the Wl-D -- riilllpp
Two i:tinlis Siiiit-Siciis
Cln Kli tlmis
S In tlie IVrni of a Wjltz
I'O.VIOr'r'ICK KKCKU'IS ill fwlMI
Moiie) Order Hiisiiiess Increases
.summer .Session Holds Up.
Tlio receipts at the Columbia post
ollice for the ear just closed exceeded
the receipts of the previous xear by
more than $G,otJ0, according to a state
ment by Postmaster J. II. Guitar. A
substantial part of this gain is due to
the Increased sale of money orders.
The amount of mall handled since
the beginning of the Summer Session
was larger than the amount for the j
corresponding period last summer. Air.
Guitar said.
S'K'ciai Train for Elks ('iPincntinii. In St. Louis to make the tinal selec
The Wabash will run a special train .tion of judges for the State Fair and
to Moberly on Wednesday, June 21, to to complete the program for the an
take care of the delegates to the Elks' jntial event. September 2 5-30, to be held
convention. The train will leave Co-at Sedalia. Tlie names of the judges
Iiiniliin at 7:30 o'clock in the morning. I have not been announce!
and will leave Moberly on the return
I
trip at midnight.
('oieruiiKmt Expert Aisits 31. I.
Dr. Cl)de E. Leighty of the burean
of plant industry of the Department of
Agriculture, at Washington. D. C, is
In Columbia looking over the experi
ment held of the College of Agriculture.
FRIDAY, JUNE 16, 1916
-Mr. Gauntlett. Mrs. Keuben Lucas,
who teaches voice, Is spending the
' summer at her home in Columbia. Miss
.Ma me (iiessing, the primary teacher
ton
Although the regular students and
most of the teachers have departed.
Stephens College is not a ipilet place
About sevent) University and Colum
bia girls are taking lessons in swim
ming, and the make enough noise to
convince the neighborhood that the
college is not dead. The girls enjoy
the sport, and their number is in
creasing daily. The teacher has her
hands full, with two classes for chil
dren from S to 14 )ears old and five
classes for girls.
READY F0RJ10BERLY
Browns Practice With Elks
Today Manager Taylor
i Is Optimistic.
the opposing pitciiers. Caldwell has
not lost a game this season. Ilr ant
is considered one of the best pitchers
In the league.
lu Sunda's game tlie local fans will
have their hrst opportunity to see the
newly organized Browns- in action.
I'nder the new manager the team has
won one game and lost one game.
"We are as strong individually as
aaiy team in tlie league and should
start winning consistent! once the
team hits its stride," said Manager
George D. Talor today.
"Mason, the new iirst baseman, with
his C feet 2 inches, has proved himself
capable of holding his job in this
league. Poster, formeily of the West
minster team, is fast, a hard hitter and
a good fielder. He should rank among
tlie leading second basemen of the
league.
"Price, a catcher of professional ex
perience both as manager and plaer,
has been added to the staff. He will
strengthen this department and will
assist in running the team on the held.
Hill will probably catch Sunday, if his
injured hand is well. Otherwise Price
will do the receiving.
"Dippold, who has gained fame as a
slugger, will play right field. McCIish
will play left, and Talor will play
center. Davis, who has just finished
three ears of service with the Tiger
baseball team, will be at his old place
at third. Vogt, a Columbia boy and
a IJrovvaiie from last eai's team, will
play short."
The Hrowns took their last workout
this afternoon in a practice game with
tlie Elks. The management has made
arrangements for a game witli Centra-
lia at that place July 4.
Miss Rosenthal Talks at Res Moines.
Miss Rose Rosenthal has gone to
Des Moines, la . to address the Cosset
County Teachers' Association on "The
Correlation of Penmanship." Miss
Rosenthal has recently resigned her
position as commercial teacher in the
Columbia High School to become di
rector of the School of Business at
Christian College and head of the
Rosenthal School of Commerce.
State Fair Plans Made.
The executive committee or the State
Hoard of Agriculture met Wednesday
M. E. Ilu)s to t Position.
M. E. Ha.vs, former assistant in the
department of horticulture, left yes
terday for College Station, Tex., where
lie has accepted a position with the
Texas A & M. College as extension
entomologist. Mr. Ha)s received his
II. S. in Agr. here in 11."i and his M.
A. this car.
HE weather
.:
iliiiiue In temne'r.iture
Pur Missouri: (.enerill fair tunlglit
ami Silimln; not muUi change lu ti ta
.T.itun. tl rather Condition,
lam barometric pressure prevails this
iiuiruliii; gent-rill) throughout the- United
.si lies iini southern Cui.nl i, with .iiiite
m irked storm ilewlopnunt hi tLe lake re
K iii'l I" Arlzum. showers luce con
tinued more or less general from Xorth
e ist Missouri ti, Miiimwit i, .nut mrr pric
tl lilt ill of the ttrrllor.x east of the VIIs-sl-.,i,
Khrr. extending from tlie Likes
to I lie I'tlir of Vlexio; tlie helWe-t fill-,
irill4 liltUlftl one .mil tliri. Imli.d .....
mrreil Iih'iII) iii I.ouisliiu, .North '.mil
South ("irollni.
Vlostlc f ilr skies pril ill west of the VII
lssippl .in.l south of tlie Missouri
Ti miicritiiiv continues I Inn ti. -,.i
souil iverie vvr win re
Cener.ilU fiir neither will llk.lv ,re ill
III I'ollllllllll illirlll' Hi t thlrli -It
I
l.MUt Until.
he htirliest te mi r ilure In e'l.liiiiiln 1
t stent ii was so, .mil the lowest 1 isi night
is .., ins iiu moil, 1 : relltlle lililtllil
it "J i in je-li nlic, ."s tier i-ent A
ji.ir an ce-tiriln Ihe hl-liesf tiunxri
lure wis sn. mil tH. Inne-I .'.I nm lull i
lion. Ii
The Mm uiur.
Sllll rose IimIm, ' .i iii Mm s,, 7,7
p ill.
Moon rise-, S:tD p m
'Ihe Temperatures Tenia.
T a. m r8 11 a. m C"
S a. in l 12 m CS
9 a. m 6L' 1 p. m 6'J
10 a. ni C4 2 p. m 71
n,ni,s tun-ii ntoi'Krr tkkes
laical Organizations Suj 'I lie) Are
Hampered hi lank of Laws.
The preservation of trees in Colum
bia is a I'uestion which has been con
sidered by the local Civic League for
the last two ears. Investigation b)
the commjttee for the preservation of
trees shows that there is no law by
which the trees can be protected.
Many states have in their statute
books, laws regulating the protection
of shade trees in towns and cities.
Cach of these states leaves the towns
and cities free to supplement the state
by local ordinance.
The committees of the local chap
ters of the Tuesday Club, the Civic
League and the D. A. It. are co-operating
to get similar laws in .Missouri. In
the meantime they can only endeavor
to create a public sentiment favorable
to the preservation of trees.
Prof. E. I. Hednck suggests that if
in each body of workmen engaged In
cutting trees there was placed an ex
pert pruner, the trees could be pruned
without injury. This is a suggestion
which the Civic League may consider.
The next meeting will be June 27
at the Y. M. C. A. ISuilding. Prof. II.
L Kempster will speak on poultry.
TALKS I'I,.M-I FOR SlTIIEVlS
Christian Church ttill Have .Sunday
Addresses 'I his Summer.
Special programs for University stu
dents will be held at the First Chris
tian Church at y:'!0 o'clock evei.v Sun
day morning during the Summer Ses
sion. The Itev. Madison A. Hart, pas
tor of the church, said he would try
to get addresses for these meetings by
University teachers, each showing
how to link up religion to everyone's
line of work.
Prof. Ira Griffith of the manual arts
department will speak next Sunday
and will show what bearing his work
has on better living. The Rev. Clar
ence F. McCall, a former student in
the University, who has spent eight
ears in Japan as a missionary, will
also make an address at the Christian
Chgrch the same morning. On the
following Sunday Miss Edith Parker,
a graduate of the university, wno nas
been a missionary in Japan and who
will return to that country in July,
will speak cm "Japan and the Japa
nese People."
RUSSIANS VI. VI ti UK. ('API HUES
Total Austrian Losses Estimated Ii)
l'etrograel at 1C1JHM).
II y United Press.
PETROGRAD, June IC Fourteen
thousand more Austrians have been
taken on the front from Koval Hruth.
This makes 104,000 in several weeks'
offensive.
KniliroiuVr) Club N Entertained.
.Mrs. Searc) Pollard entertained tlie
Harmony Embroidery Club )esterday
afternoon at her home. Those present
were Mrs. J. E. Hoggs, Mrs. A. E.
Rothwell, Mrs. W. T. Halleiiger, Mrs.
O. E. DeWertheoi, .Mrs. Ralph Finley,
Mrs. C. O. Davidson, Mrs Frank Rus
sell, Mrs. W. R. Pearman. .Mrs. II. fi.
Woods. Miss Fannie Hall and Miss
Margaret Hoggs.
W. c. T. I". to .Make (luirit) Tour.
The W. C. T. U. will meet at 2:30
o'clock Sunday afternoon to distribute
flowers, baskets and magazines in the
County jail and the Infirmary. Those
having conve)ances are reepiested to
bring them. The regular meeting will
be June IS at the Methodist Church.
All members are urged to att-ni
NUMBER 248
llinninnni i-rrnma
UN rlJN-UHM
BUSIESJONVENTION
With Wilson and Marshall
Renominated, Democrats
Thresh Out Piohlems.
SUFFRAGE PUT AWAY
Franchise Is Held to Be Mut
ter for States Long Fijht
in the Committee.
Ilj I'ulted Press
ST. I.OPIS, June IC Slee-ji bedrag
gleel delegates greeted Ollie .lames,
chairman of the Democratic Conven
tion, when lie dropped the gavel at
II:21 o'clock this morning beginning
the third da)'s session.
Ratification of the platform was the
sole remaining work of the convention.
-Ian.v of the delegates were absent,
and the galleries Were deserted. There
were more cheers today than last night
over the nomination of Wilson and
Marshall.
Unmeasured denunciations of liyphe
nated Americans, lauding of Democra-
c.v's achievements during its three
)ears of administration, promise nr ad
ditional labor legislation, fervid en
dorsements of preparedness and
Americanism these were the i rinci
pal planks of the platform which the
resolutions committee presented after
a fight of twent)-two hours.
Suftrage causej a big fight, but was
held to be a matter for tlie states.
Couientlon Adjourns at :':ll O'clock.
Ily Uiilleil Press
ST. LOUIS. June IC After adopt
ing the platform the convention ad
journed sine die at :!:11 o'clock this
afternoon. The big debate u( over
the suffrage plank.
0 FRK'IIO.N AT VoVF.NTIOV
So Sit) .1. E. Hoggs and Hert Sapp,
ttho Atteiiiled From Columbia.
Circuit Clerk J. E. Hoggs and Sher
iff G. Hert Sapp returned last night
from the Democratic National Con
vention in St. Louis, filled with the
enthusiasm that usually results from
attending such gatherings.
The two Columbia Democrats
reached St. Louis too late to hear the
kenote address of the convention by
former Governor Gl)iin of New York,
picked the Republican platform to
James of Kentucky. "Ollie James just
but heard the speech of Senator Ollie
pieces," said .Mr. Hoggs.
"There was not a bit of friction at
the convention," said Mr. Hoggs.
".More than once did lirvan. who was
only a newspaper representative,
break out to cheer the Administra
tion and the Democratic candidates.
"The audience anil delegates ap
proved the Hran lo)alty to the party
by howling their voices hoarse for
about thirty minutes for a speech from
the Commoner. So insistent were the
galleries and some of the delegates
that Ollie James promised to call on
Hr)an as soon as he finished his
speech. The audience did not hear
Hr)an )estcrday because he left the
press gallery when James finished
talking."
S. tV. TlRMI0n.il HIES HERE
Funeral of Ciiliiinhiii Resident ttill lie
Tomorrow Morning.
The funeral of Samuel W. Turn
bough will be held at 10:30 o'clock to
morrow morning at the Wilkes Houlc
vard .Methodist Church. Services will
be conducted by the Rev. A. II. Coff-
man. Hum! will be in Columbia
Cemetery.
Mr. Turnbough, who died at 7:30
o'clock last night at his home, 71)3 1-2
Tandy avenue, is survived by his wife,
three daughters, Mrs. Lucas Douglas,
Mrs. James Rummans and Miss Gold-
ie Turnbough, all of Columbia, and
five sons, Joseph, John, Albert anil
Del lie rt of Columbia ami Will of Han
nibal.
.1. . llelcher Now (.'raiiilfulhcr.
Word has been received here that a
son was lwrn today to Mr. and Mrs.
Mason W Helcher of Chicago, III. The
voting man has ben christened John
Crawford Helcher The- father Is a
-on of Mr. and Mrs J. N. Helcher of
this city and lived in Columbia until
the last few )ears.
French and (.'ernians (,'iie and lake.
Ily United I'rem.
BERLIN, June 10. The French on
j the south slope of Dead Man's Hill
.were pushed back today. The Teu-
tons took 240 prisoners and several
Maxims. The Paris Dispatch sa)s
that the French took 130 Germans In
action earlier at the same position.
A
