FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JUNE 61, 1)16
VOL. 4
j NO. 22
FLAG DAY PATRIOT
ICALLY OBSERVED
D. A. R. Mark and Decorate with Flow
ers Graves of Revolutionary Sol
diers with Impressive Rites
Flag Day was generally observed
in Farmington last Wednesday, and
"Old Glory" waved from numerous
buildings, business houses and private
residences, in flags of all sixes, evinc
ing a wide-spread sentiment df pa
triotism and respect for the star
spangled banner.
One of the most interesting fea
tures of the day was the program ar
ranged by the Sarah Barton Murphy
Chapter of the Daughters of the
American Revolution to uncover
"Markers" at the graves of two Rev
olutionary soldiers whose last rest
ing place is in our midst. First at
the grave of James Caldwell at Park
view Cemetery, to which place all that
remained of the body was removed
from a grave in the old Carter place
on the i)th of May, an account of
which appeared in The Times, and
then at the grave of William Alex
ander in the family graveyard on J.
C. Alexander's farm just west of
town.
The first exercises were at the
Caldwell grave, opening with a bugle
call and dirge by the Gower Juvenile
Band, followed with an invocation by
Rev. 0. H. Duggins, pastor of the
Southern Methodist Church, and
"Nearer, My God, to Thee," by the
band. Elizabeth Buck and Nicholas
Phillips unveiled the marker, which
was draped with the American flag,
and children of the Daughters com
pletely covered the grave with flow
ers, among which was a beautiful
wreath, ordered by Mrs. Ella Sebas
tian Williams of Springfield, Mo., of
white carnations, geraniums and hy
dranga, and blue heliotrope, repre
senting the D. A. R. colors, white and
blue, and the initials J. C. in small
rod roses. After the address by Theo.
D, Fisher, "America" by the band,
and benediction by the venerable and
much-loved old servant of God, Rev.
George W. Harlan, the company went
in their automobiles to the Alexander
Cemetery.
There, after bugle call and a dirge,
Rev. O. H. L. Cunningham, pastor of
the First Baptist Church, invoked
Divine blessing, the band played !
"Rock of Ages", and Green and Gail
Downing, great-great- grandchildren
of Wililam Alexander, removed the
American flag that veiled the marker
at the head of the grave, and de
scendants of this Revolutionary hero
and children of the Daughters cov
ered the grave with flowers. Henry
Davis, Prosecuting Attorney, then de
livered an address, paying a beauti
ful tribute to our Revolutionary sires
and the noble work in which the D.
A. R. are engaged in restoring the
graves of these Revolutionary heroes.
The addresses of Mr. Fisher and Mr.
Davis follow:
Address of Theo. D. Fisher
"Mrs. Regent and Daughters of the
American Revolution and friends, we
have gathered here, on this National
Flag Day memorial occasion, to pay
tribute to one of our Revolutionary
heroes, to mark his grave and strew
it with flowers. We could not observe
the day in a more appropriate man
ner. "James Caldwell was born in Green
brier county, Va., July 4, 1763. He
enlisted in the spring of 1778, at the
ago of 15 years, under Captain Arch
ibald Woods in his native county, on
the frontier of Virginia, against the
Indians, and served fifteen days. He
substituted for his father in the
spring of 1779 under Captain Thos.
Wrieht. and served one month. In
ho in or i : ne immnri.ii.eu iu
Kentucky, but returned to Virginia
the following spring. Then in 1781
he served three terms of one month
each under Cantain Archibald Woods
and Colonel Samuel Brown. In the
fall of 1781 he again removed to
Kentucky near Col. Wm. Whitney's in
Lincoln county (then Virginia), and
was with the latter at the recapture
of Mrs. McClure from the Indians,
and was at this place about six
months.
"During the year 1782 he served un
der Capts. John Woods and Andrew
Kinkead, Cols. Beni. Logan and John
Logan, and was in an expedition to
'Ihillicolhe under George Rogers
Clarke. In 1783 he served under
Capts. Joseph Kennedy, John Woods,
Moses Lung and Col. Beni. Logan.
"At the close of the Revolutionary
War, he was ordered out in the sum
mer 01 1 O0 under iapi. jos. Kenne
dy and Col. Benj. Logan and served
eight or ten days. On Sept. 10, 1886,
under Capt. Baker, Col. Jas. Barnett
and Gen. Clark, he marched to Wa
bash, where he saw six weeks' ser
vice. On September 10, 1790, he
commanded n company of Major He
ratio Hall's battalion, Col. James
Trotter's regiment. He joined Gen.
Hamar at Cincinnati, then proceeded
to the battle of Maumee Village. In
1.791 he returned to Crab Orchard,
-,Ky., and afterwards served in tnc
' legislature of that Slate with Hen
i v Clay.
'"He came to Missouri in 1810, lo
cating in Cook Settlement, this coun
ty, and about 1830 came to Farming
ton and built a log cabin, which is
still standing in what is known as the
Dalton House yard. He- served a?
speaker in the first General Assembly
of this State, which met in St.
Charles in 1820. and died at his home
in Farmington on September 6, 1830;
was buried in the cemetery in what
is known as the Carter place. His
grave, which by changes and the lay
ing out of streets and alloys in Farm
ington, was left in an alley, was open
ed on the 9th of last month, and all
that remained of his body was re
moved and interred in this cemetery.
"This sketch of his life, which I
have read, deals more particularly
with the militant side of his charac
ter, but that he had a much gentler
side, one or two incidents I will re
late attest. Shortly after he located
in this county a baby boy came into
the world as his mother's spirit pass
ed out into the unknown. Captain
Caldwell and his good wife took the
motherless baby boy to their hearts,
lovingly reared him to manhood, and
he became one of the best and most
influential citizens of our county, and
his children, affectionately refer to
Capt. Caldwell as "Grandfather."
"About that time, back in Kentuc
ky, a youth of only 19 and a sweet
girl of 14 fell in love, as boys and
girls will; they married against their
parents' protests and were disinherited
for their disobedience. The young
man had a gun, a dog, a horse and a
saddle. Saddling his horse, he strode
his back, took his young wife up be
hind him, and in some way they made
their way through from Kentucky to
Cook Settlement. They went direct
to Capt. Caldwell's who and his good
wife received them with ope arm,
placed them In a little cabin on one of
his farms, gave them a cow and calf
and implements to work the farm,
and didn't charge them a cent rent
until the young couple had saved
money enough 'o enter a government
claim of their own. A grand-daughter
of that young pioneer and his
courageous girl wife is now a resi
dent of Farmington.
"My friends, it is not only a beau
tiful and graceful act to pay tribute
to the hardy, honest, daring souls of
the new world who denied and defied
the ages-old claim that kings are cloth
ed with a divine right to rule, and
who builded for us here a government
founded upon the inalienable rights
of man to life, liberty and the pur
suit of happiness, but it is also a pa
triotic duty we owe to our coun
try and the heroic men with whose
heritage of freedom we are so richly
endowed.
"And I want to pay just here a
tribute to that noble organization of
women, the Daughters of the Amer
ican Revolution, for the splendid work
they are doing, and the sentiment that
inspires that work, to keep alive the
sentiment and fires of patriotism that
burned and glowed in the hearts of
their heroic and sainted sires. Senti
ment is the inspiration, the touch
stone, of all that is good, and true
and beautiful. I would parapiirase
Shakespeare and say that the man
who has no sentiment in his soul is
fit for treason, stratagem and spoils.
Men, in the busy marts of life, in the
struggling ranks of bread-winners,
in quest of the goal of selfish and
worldly ambitions, get lost some
times from their better selves, and
the sweeter, gentler emotions of their
nature, which make them 'but a lit
tle lower than the angels,' shrink
back into the closed recesses of their
souls, until some great, impelling up
heaval of their natures bursts open
the closed doors of sentiment and
arouses them to unselfish duty and ac
tion at the call of humanity. But
our women, God bless them all, whose
mothering instincts are ever alive,
keep watch and ward, ready to revive
in us all that is best, whether of vir
tue, religion, patriotism, or the other
higher impulses of our hearts that
make for the betterment of the world
and iift the soul Godward.
"And so we find this gracious band
of women searching out the neglect
ed and lonir-forgottcn graves of our
heroic Revolutionary dead, wreathing
their weed-grown wastes with flowers,
resurrecting their individual lives
and deeds and arousing within the
living the sentiment and tires or pa
triotism for e'en from these ashes
the wonted fires of patriotism rise to
rekindle and glow in our hearts.
"And do we not need a revival of
the sentiment of patriotism, of love
for our country ;
" 'Breathes there a man with soul so
dead,
Who never to himself hath said,
This is my own, my native land.' "
"Has not that beautiful senti
ment, so forcefully expressed by the
poet, lost much of its charm and
meaning to us in our engrossment
with the material things of life?
'I did not raise my boy to be a sol
dier', someone has put into the mouth
of a doting mother. No, nor did she
rear him to be a shirker of duty and
responsibility, but to be a manly man,
with his face set against forceful ag
gression, ready to defend his home, his
freeman's rights and his country,
whenever and however they are as
sailed. If my people ever had rea
son to prepare and keep themselves
prepared to defend their country and
its sacred traditions, it is the sov
ereign people who govern and rule
this great American Republic. No
other people ever received so large
and rich a legacy, and upon no other
people rests so great a responsibility
to maintain and defend their dearly
won boon of freedom. Let us be true
to our country and its traditions
true American;, at all times as was
the heroic soul that warmed and puls
ated the ashes that rest in the hal
lowed ground where we now stand."
Address of Henry Davis.
"Daughters of the American Revolu
tion :
"Through the initiative of your
genuinely patriotic organization we:
meet here at the graveside of one who
tendered his services and staked his
very all that there might be born MM
this continent a nation dedicated to,
the proposition that 'all men are ere-1
ated equal. .We meet to place a
marker at the last resting place of a
devoted Revolutionary soldier. It is
a solemn occasion. It is a time for,
reverence of our red-blooded ances
tors. Brought by your efforts in
thought and position as close as it,
is possible to be brought to the War
of the Revolution and with the thought
of the stirring events now going on
in the world, it is impossible that the
fires of patriotism should not be re
kindled. "Beautiful orations have been de
livered paying a just tribute to the
leaders of that epochal period. His
tories have been written of their
mighty deeds and stately monuments
erected to their memories. A grate
ful posterity renders homage to those
of less conspicuous position. But
your organization has set itself to the
patriotic task or marking the grave
of each Revolutionary soldier and of
having a word spoken commemora
tive of that soldier.
"The survivors of that struggle
scattered over this then expanding em- !
pire. Postal methods of communica
Hon were undeveloped and as a result
old friends lost sight of each other. ;
Records were inefficiently kept and
many burial places of our first sol
diers were forgotten and are today
unknown. Such was the fate of one j
of my ancestors.
"It is a most commendable task to
which, you Daughters have set your-,
selves. Not all the men of our Col-1
onial era could draft the sacred Dec-'
titration of Independence. All could
not be the leader of the army. Ev
ery right-thinking man did lend his
services to the Father of his Country
to back up the famous ultimatum
penned by the immortal Jefferson.
"The history of him who lies here
is meager. Like the history of count
less thousands of pioneer settlers in
this new country, very little of his
life's story remains in the form of a
record. In our country's capital he
is recorded as having served in the
Revolutionary army and in our hearts
his must be a hero's name. To have
offered his services and, if need be,
his very life, as all soldiers did to aid
in the formation of a great free Re
public, compels our reverence and
marks him a hero. When we remem
ber that our forefathers were just
opening up a civilization on. our At
lantic seaboard, and when we consid
er that they were destitute of finances,
of military equipment and without ev
en a common, united government, tne
pluck, courage and indomitable will
power of every mother's son of them
shines out resplendently. One can
not read of the winter spent in Valley
Forge without wishing to place on the
shoulders .of each soldier a hero's
epaulette and upon the brow of each
a conqueror's coronet.
"We mark the grave of William
Alexander, a native of Lincoln coun
ty, North Carolina. He was of Eng
lish decent. Joined the 10th North
Carolina Regiment on the 10th day of
May, 1781, and was commissioned an
ensign. On the 8th day of September,
1781, promoted to the rank of Lieu
tenant. Was transferred to the 4th
North Carolina Regiment on the 6th
of February, 1782 and continued in
the active service until the close of
the war. Thus we see that he was
more than an ordinary soldier and
this leads to the conclusion that he
must have been held in high esteem
by bis comrades and that his ability
was recognized by those in superior
positions.
"By occupation a farmer he sought,
after the war. the more fertile fields
of the new West, as this central
State was then known, settling in
1817, while Missouri was yet a terri
tory, in Jefferson county, Mo. He re
mained t':ere four years and in 1821,
the year Missouri was admitted into
the union of States, came to Farm
ington where he entered 700 acres of
land. Here he died some time in the
thirties leaving as his descendants the
Alexander family, among whom arc
Corbin Alexander, long honored with
official positions in his native coun
ty, and Mrs. Downing, an honored
member of your Chapter.
"It is good to come here and per
form this pleasant tas' Th mm lv
ing here deserves it. Through the ef
forts of your organization a proper
respect is paid to those long since
gone and by your actions the love of
country is kent burning in our hearts
and souls. May your society in
crease." Hon. W. P. Sebastian of Austin.
Texas, and Mrs. Ella Sebastian Wil
liams, foster grandchildren of Capt.
Caldwell, each wrote feeling letters,
regretting their inability to be pres
ent, mid Dr. J. P. Sebastian of Wil
liamsville, Mo., was expected, but
something must have intervened to
prevent his getting here.
Mr. Claud Clay and family of Lead-
wood have been visiting 'Ha i 'tti
i ' Vmington this week. He and his
family expect to leave soon for Mi
1 ami, Okla., where he cxnects to se-
"ure work in the great lead mines at
that place.
"France on the
Firing Line"
The children of the Elmwood Home
are exceedingly fortunate in having
had presented to them, without cost,
the excellent pictures that are pre
sented under the above title. These
pictures have but recently arrived in
this country, and are now being pre
sented at the leading movie theatres
throughout the country.
Out of the bigness of his heart the
producer of these pictures has given '
to the Elmwood children the free use
of these pictures for to-night, when i
Vipv will hp nriwhippH nt rhp MnnHrch !
Theatre the entire receipts going to!
the Home as the Monarch manage- i
ment also gives freely the use of the
theatre
. ,. ,, Humiliate itiiiuiti.ttt-n iui x lu.iuiiii
These pictures tell the story of the1 .... . ,
war now in progress in the old world I alld Vlce President. There was no ques
as it has never before been portrayed ; tion as to whom they would nominate,
in this .country. Every phase of land as there was but one man whose name
warfare-is there portrayed, the pic-1 suetrested. and it is universally
tures being fresh from the scenes of!
actual fighting. There is nearly 7,
000 feet ( f film, showing, among
many other things, the uses made of j
the death-laden gases, every pnase
of trench fighting, and miles and miles
of both French and German trenches
are shown. At one place a German
trench is shown only six yards from
the first French trench. Artillery I
duels are also tcalured, and anoui
r,0,000 captives are shown on their
way to the detention camps.
Farmington, as well as thc Home
children, are to be congratulated on
securing these pictures, even for one
night, and the Monarch will doubt
less be crowded to capacity for both
performances to-night.
Lee Kugel of New York, a former
Farmington boy, one of the number
of our boys who huve made good, and
who is in the moving picture business,
generously donated the use of the
films mentioned above, for the ben
efit of the Elmwood Home. Editor.
Trouble at No. 4
The Board of Managers of State
Hospital No. 4 at this place met last
Saturday, and there arc rumors to the
effect that the hoard asked or demand
ed the resignation of Dr. G. E.
Scrutchfield, the Superintendent.
That the request was made there is
no doubt, as sonic of the St. Louis pa
pers have quoted one or two members
of the Board to that effect. We don't
know anything definite as to the
charges upon which the demand was
made, as the parties concerned are
loth to apeak out, and therefore pre
fer not ( make any comment. It is
said, however, that Dr. Scrutchfield
refuses to resign, and it is reported
that Governor Major, who appointed
the Doctor as Superintendent, will
support him in his refusal The
Board hasn't the power to remove the
Superintendent, and if its demand is
insisted upon court proceedings will
probably have to be instituted. We
understand that the Board is to meet
next Monday, when the whole trouble
will probably be aired.
Farm Clubs
Picnic on 4th
The Unity and Copenhagen Farm
Clubs have joined together and will
give an old fashioned picnic in Prof.
Charles Schuttler's beautiful grove at
Unity School House, three and one
half miles southeast of Farmington,
on July 4th. Everybody is urgently
invited to attend whether they belong
to a farm club or not, and bring well
filled baskets and have the time of
their lives, as the grove will easily
accommodate 1,000 people, and then
some. Good speakers will be on hand
to address the people, both in the
forenoon and afternoon. Also, they
are calculating to have a good band
to dispense music for the delectation
of the people. Amusements will be
provided, and a stand, too, where one
can get ice cream, lemonade, etc. A
committee has been appointed to give
special attention to the entertainment
of the children. Come and bring 'y cur
family and help us enjoy a sane and
profitable Fourth.
T. B. CHANDLER,
For the Committee.
Change of Date
Invitations are out for thc recital
of the piano pupils of Mrs. Eiscnberg
Beard, which will be given in thc High
School Auditorium Saturday evening,
June 17th, at 8:16 p. m. The recitals
if Mrs. Beard's music classes are al
ways looked forward to by many.
Tonight was the original date for
this recital, but the Elmwood Home
-mtertninment at the Monarch for
this evening caused the change. Fol
lowing is the program:
Program
j Quartette Faust Waltz Gounod
S"lo valse Arabesque L.acn
Sextette Hero March Lenzberg
Trio Jolly Workman Gaynor
fluet Fly Away Birdling Abt
Sextette (a) Evening, (b) Festival
March , Low
Duet - Hungarian Rhapsody Liszt
Sextette Oberon ..Weber
Solo Komanze from D. min. Concer
to Mozart
(Orchestral score on second piano.)
Sextette Come Where the Lillies
Bloom Thompson
Sextette (a) Melody ir F, Rubenstein
(h) Barcarolle Offenbach
Solo (a) In Beauteous May, Lich
ner. (b) Scintillating Stars, Wachs
Quartette Persian March, De Kontski
DEMOCRATIC CONVEN
TION NOW IN SESSION
President Wilson Renominated Last
Night Vice Presidential Nomi
nation to be Made Today
.
As we 8 to nres3 thls ( "day) , Lincoln victory, the convention went
morning the Democrats are in Na-! wild, delegates leaped on chairs, flags
tional Convention at St. Louis to"n """'J aml af,l!rl cheer 8.WCpt
i-j t n . , i wave-like over the vast assemblage
, , " I
' 1 '.'I'-w .i . . " : 1 mi i miii mat.
Woodrow Wilson is not only entitled i
to the nomination but that he above
all blic men of thc ,lay is deserv.
. . . ,,
in of a 8ec0Ild lerm- Th(!re are sev"
erul aspirants for Vice President, but
it is pretty generally conceded that
Vir President Thomas R Mnrshull
of Indiana, Mr. Wilson's running
mate in 1912, will again be associated
with him on the ticket. This will be
something of an innovation, as, we be
lieve, no Vice President has ever been
nominated by his party as his own
successive successor. Former Vice
President Fairbanks, also of Indiana,
was nominated for the same position
for the Republicans at Chicago last
week, but then some years have in
tervened since he served in that ca
pacity. The Convention met Wednesday,
but practically nothing but thc form
ality of getting the working machin
ery in order was done. The Conven
tion was called to order at noon Wed
nesday by William F. McCombs,
Chairman of the Democratic Nation
al Committee, and the call for the
Convention was read by the Secretary
of that Committee, J. Bruce Kremer,
followed by the opening prayer by
Rev. James W. Lee, Presiding Elder
of the St. Louis District Methodist
Episcopal Church, South. The pre
siding officer then announced the
Temporary Chairman of the Conven
tion, Martin H. Glynn, who delivered
the opening or "key-note" address,
and when he predicted that the re
election of Pies' lent Wilson is as cer
tain next S-jfmSiei- us was a second
Family Reunion
There was a pleasant reunion of the
McClintock family last Wednesday at
the home of Mrs. Rebecca McClin
tock Fleming, in honor of her brother,
Mr. J. S. McClintock, of Deadwood,
S. D., who was here. A regular bas
ket dinner was served which was
brought by the several families at
tending. There were sixty present
at the reunion, as follows: Mrs. Re
Becca Fleming, J. S. McClintock, Mr.
and Mrs. C. B. McClintock; Mr. and
Mrs. Elmo L. McClintock and Elmo
Jr.; Clyde McClintock, Mrs. John
Spurgeon, Audrey Horn, Raphael
Horn, Mrs. Mary Doss, Robin Doss,
P'annie Doss; Mr. and Mrs. Russell
Doss, Marie, Jimmie and Jesie Lee
Doss; Mr. and Mrs. Vernon Doss,
Linn, William and Mary Catherine
Doss; Mrs. Susan Burgess, Mary,
Gracie and Vesta Burgess; Mr. and
Mrs. Mabry McClintock, Cecil, Rus
sel, Edna, and Forest McClintock;
Mrs. Emmett Calvird, Orval Clay,
Frances, Floyd, Elizabeth and Baby
Cora Agnew; Mrs. Sam Vance, Mr.
and Mrs. J. W. Buck, Elizabeth Buck,
Ward Fleming; Mrs. Kate Fleming
and daughter, Virginia, of Aurora,
Mo.; Mr. and Mrs. Will Meming, Mrs.
Morris Griffin, Alberta Lilbourne, and
Raba Pearl Griffin; Mrs. P. V. Ash
burn, Mr. nnd Mrs. Ed Byingtnn, Earl
and Bernice Byington; Mr. and Mrs.
Ed Stam.
Several New Ones
Ten new subscriber:; have volun
tarily called the past week and or
dered The Times sent to their address
the coming year. Several others have
also advanced their subscription.
New Subscribers John M. Doss,
Dr. G. L. Watkins, and Mrs. Eisen
berg Beard, Farmington; Henry Mat
kin, Bismarck; Mrs. J. W. Williams,
Springfield, Mo.; J. A. Sigman, Wells
ton, Mo.; W. R. Taylor, Bonner
Springs, Kan.; J. A. Brenncke. Bonne
Tcrre; John Mund, Route 6; Knowles
Klob, Route 6.
Renewals Chas. H. Blackledge,
Avon; E. J. Jennings, San Diego, Cal.;
Jos. F. Hogenmiller. Weingartcn; C.
W. Marshall, Knob Lick; Giles Hunt,
Farmington Route 6; I. L. Hale,
Farmington Route 4; J. N. Lucas,
Farmington Route 6; Howard Haynes,
Farmington Route 2; Mrs. Harriet
Boyd, Avon.
The following delegates of the So
"iety of Christian Endeavor from
Farmington are attending a district
invention cf the organization at Po
si this week: Misses Myrtle Nn
tions anil Georgia Bailey from the
Christian Church. Dwight Sutherland.
Virginia Sutherland, Emily Matkin,
Margaret Henderson, Mary Hender-
I)e Allen McKinney ana Mrs
uBose
Church.
from the Presbyterian
1
in the Coliseum.
On Thursday at noon the Conven
tion again assembled and was called
to order by Temporary Chairman
Glynn, and Right Reverend John J.
Glennon, Archbishop of St. Louis,
pronounced the invocation. Reports
of the Committees on Credentials,
Permanent Organization, and Rules
of Order and Business were then
made. United States Senator Ollie
James of Kentucky was reported as
Permanent Chairman, and delivered
a strong speech lauding and defending
the Administration of President Wil
son. The original program of thc Con
vention provided for thc nomination
of President Wilson for a second term
to take place to-night (Friday), but
yesterday morning a change was
made, and it was decided to make thc
nomination last night, which was
probably carried out. The nomina
tion of a Vice Presidential candidate
will be made to-day and the Conven
tion may adjourn instead of holding
over until Saturday.
The platform is expected to be a
strong presentation of the Adminis
tration's policies, the constructive
work of the Administration and of
Congress, and an unwavering stand
for the brand of Americanism for
which Mr. Wilson has been a firm nnd
consistent exponent. The Mexican
question will be frankly nnd openly
treated, the policy pursued defended
and the people told what the policy to
ward our Southern neighbor shall bo
in our further dealings with it. If the
expressions of those who have to do
with the framing of the platform and
resolutions are a true indication, the
platform will not only be strong and
forceful, but there will be no evasion
of any question or responsibility, and
no "weasle" words to suck the mean
ing out of a single sentence. Demo
crats believe they are right and will
stand by theL- cnafi&fitt.
Gardner Club
at Flat River
Last Saturday thc admirers and sup
porters of Frederick D. Gardner, can
didate for the Democratic nomination
for Governor, met at thc office of Dr.
Frank L. Keith, at Flat River, and
organized a Gardner Club with about
fifty members, which has since been
largely added to.
The Club elected the following of
ficers: Jesse M. Garrett, President;
George W. Cloud, Vice President, and
Chas. Gottlob, Secretary and Treas
urer, all active and working Demo
crats. ADAM SCHMIDT BIES
IN
HIS "eightieth YEAR
Adam Schmidt, one of Farming
ton's old and well known citizens,
died at State Hospital No. 4 early
last Friday morning. He wa3 taken
to that institution a few months ago,
as the result of a paralytic stroke
which he suffered several years-since.
Mr. Schmidt had lived in Farming
ton since about 1862 or 1863, engaged
in the blacksmith and wagon-making
business. He was a man of genial
parts, generous nature, jovial dispo
sition and a hard and industrious
worker, until age and affliction over
took him. He had the good will and
respect of all who knew him.
He is survived by his wife and sev
en children Carrie (Mrs. Patrick
O'Hare) of Lovcland, Colo.; August
Schmidt, of Denver, Colo.; Lizzie
(Mrs. Henry Perker) of Cape Girar
deau; Emma (Mrs. Wm. Box) of Love
land, Colo; Adam, Anna and Albert
of Farmington, Mo. The aged wifo
and children have the sympathy of
all who know them in their bereave
ment. Adam Schmidt was born in Baden,
Germany, on August 18, 1836, and
was the son of John and Anna
Schmidt. He married Margaret
Decker. In 1860 they came to Amer
ica and settled at New Orleans where
they lived a few months. Later they
came to Pilot Knob, where they lived
a year, after which they moved to
Farmington.
LITTLE 3-YEAR-OLD BOY
SERIOUSLY KICKED BY HORSE
Julius Hawn, the little three-vear-old
son of R. E. Hawn of Rural Route
No. 3, was kicked in the mouth by a
horse last Friday morning. The up
per lip was badly cut, the front teeth
knocked out and the front bones of
the jaw broken loose from the roof
of the mouth. He was taken to the
Bonne Terre Hospital for treatment,
where thc fractured benes were set.
and the impaired parts dressed, and
Sunday he was brought to Farming
ton and left at Robert Clay's under
charge of a physician. We n-e glad
to say that the little fellow is get
ting along really better than could
be expected, the wounds are healing
healthfully and the swelling in his
face going down.
