rm
VOL. XX NO. 79.
UAMIK, VERMONT, FIUDAY, JUNK 10, 191(5.
PRICE, OXE CEXT.
THE BARKE DAILY
IMES
1
DEMOCRATS
IN WRANGLE
ON PLATFORM
After Nearly 24 Hours Continuous Ses-
' sion Following Re-nomination of Wil
son and Marshall Resolutions Com
mittce .Were Late in Presenting the
Document
ONLY ONE VOTE
AGAINST WILSON
Opposition to Vice-President Marshall
Petered Out Toward the End of Last
Night's Session-Bryan Was Called
Upon to Address Convention, Others
Helped to Fill In
St. Louis, June 16. The resolutions committee of the Demo
cratic national convention, after almost 24 hours' deliberation, fin
ished the draft of the platform at 8 o'clock this morning and au
thorized Senator Stone," the chairman of the committee, to present
the document to the committee. The committee began its fina!
session at 11 o'clock last night and worked almost continuously
, until the draft was completed. A few changes were made in the
tentative platform as drawn by the sub-committee, and the night
was spent in discussing the phraseology of the important planks
At 11 o'clock, the hour for the final session of the convention to
begin, in order to complete the work following the renomination of
Wilson and Marshall, only 200 delegates were in the Coliseum, and
the seats were filling slowly. Chairman James called the conven
tion to order at 11 :26, and prayer was offered by Rabbi Leon liar
rison of St. Louis. Chairman James then called for the report of
the committee on resolutions, but the committee was not ready,
.Ajnd Senator Reed of Missouri made a speech to fill in the time.
vhcre never was any doubt of Presi
dent Wilson's nomination last night, but
here was a possibility that some vice
president booms mjght be brought out
in opposition to Vice-President Marshall.
They melted away, however, when the
convention got in session and as soon as
President Wilson's nomination had been
made by a roaring chorus of accsilama
tion, Senator Kern, who renominated Mr.
Marshall, cast aside a long prepared
speech and simply declared:
"I nominate Thomas Riley Marshall of
Indiana, for vice-president."
To President Wilson's nomination
here was only one dissenting vote, Rob
ert Einmett Burke of Illinois, who came
to the convention announcing he was op
posed to the president. His vote techni
cally made the president's nomination
1091 to 1.
y f 1
LEAD TORRENT
SEN.TGERMANS
REELING BACK
Powerful Attacks Southeast
of Thiaumont Farm Broke
Down Under the Fire of
French Machine Guns and
Infantry, as Did Effort to
Regain a Lost Trench .
CAILLETTE WOOD ALSO
SCENE OF SLAUGHTER
In Taking German Trench
on the Southeast Slope of
Dead Man's Hill, French
Captured Five Officers and
ISO Men and Then Suc
cessfully Resisted Several
Counter-Attacks
WOODR0W WILSON
Democratic Nominee for President
. Wescott's Speech Nominating Wilson
Wilson's name was presented to the
convention by Judge John W. Wcseott of
New Jersey, who spoke in part as fol
lows: "Prophecy is fulfilled. The eternal ver
ities of righteousness have prevailed. Un
dismayed by the calamities of war, un
moved by vituperation and vain declama
tion, holding to the pure altar of truth,
the schoolmaster is statesman, the states
man financier, the financier emancipator,
. the emancipator pacifieato. the pacihea
tor the moral leader of democracy.
"The nation is at work. The nation is
at peace. The nation is accomplishing
the destiny of democracy. Four years ago
the nation was not at work. With re
sources boundless, with a hundred million
people pager to achieve and do, commerce
languished, industries halted, men were
idle. The country struggled in the tolls
of an inadequate financial system. Cred
it was at the mercy of piracy. The small
business man was bound hand and foot.
Panic hung lik a storm cloud over the
business world.
"Now bursting granaries, teeming fac
tories, crowded railways and overladen
fchips distribute wealth and comfort to
uncounted millions the world over. Pro
duct ion outruns the means of distribu
tion. The parallel of American prosperi
ty is not found in industrial history; nor
is it causeles. It did not descend, like
a merciful accident, from heaven. It it
not due to the devastation of a reversed
tariff. It is n it the result of destructive
legislation. It cannot be attributed to
the manufacture of war materials, con
stituting a bare five per centum of the
volume of national business. War is de
struction, not production. War curtails
international trad. War depresses in
dustrial energy. W hen the European cat
aclysm struck the world, moratoria fell
like a blight upon many of the neutral
nations, but mt upon the fnitcd States.
"The nation is at pca in a" world at
war. America is confronted with appall
ing realities. It is net the part of wis
dom to play with phntm. deal in rid-1
riles, or seek to entertain the national I
imagination with the legerdemain oMsn
gitaeo. To build ord mountain ) i-h
as the. thron of canity and amhitt- n
whoul.i not be an American pastime. An
attempt tfi -th tV.e presidency phtase
is U-,e work of folly. Th ftimtmn of a
soundirg br and tinkling cymbal i
rot germane to the tragic cnn-iitiona of
tie world. When the fate of millions it
at stake, it is iw-t tVe part of any man
to stark the ear.iv W ith ei t in
1rJ, tl sxit be-n.e an B-hron-(
ism. With the whole world tense and
anxious, patriotic advice and suggestion
are of more value than defamation. Npec
ulation wilts in the blaze of truth. Amis
ive phraseology shrivels before the re
lentless fact. Honesty is the command
ing quality of a free and patriotic Amer
ican.
"Thug is the nation accomplishing the
destiny of democracy. The commanding
tact of the modern age is the spread of
intelligence. The school-house has con
qucred ignorance. The printing press has
transformed the purpose and capacities
or man. Education has qualified lum for
a better existence. The Bible haa made
him a moralist. Men know that the
world is big enough to support the hu
man family in peace and comfort. Men
know that the great problem of peace
and comfort is not yet solved. They
know that it cannot be solved by the
savagery of war. They know that it
solutionable only in conditions of peace,
reason and a practical morality. This
state of knowledge is the crowning
achievement of progress.
"When the imperialism of Europe east
the iron dice of destiny, America threw
the moral dice of destiny. America
staked the principles of her justice. There
they stand in untarnished integrity in
the gaze of a stricken world. The in
telligence of men grasp the meaning of
America. Her example will readjust the
relations of men everywhere. The aspir
ations of men are for freedom. Men and
women can and should rule themselves.
The day when they rule themselves war
will disappear. The hand of divinity haa
so written it in the needs and necessities
of humanity made in its image.
"America, prosperous, peaceful, blessed,
is so because the inscrutable purpose of
fJod intended it. The contrast between
Europe in flames and suffering and the
I'nited States peaceful and prosperous is
the dmne contrast. By saving the Amer
ican svstem civilization is saved. The
peace of America demonstrates the folly
of war. The principles of democracy fur
nish the means of avoiding and prevent
ing war. The universal intelligence of
men decrees that the war now devastat
ing Europe shall be the last war.
Sons of America, keep unsullied the
sacred sunne of peace, through whose
portals will vet pass arm in arm the
crowned head and the humble peasant in
silent worship of (Jod.
"Therefore, my fellow countrymen. nt
I. but his deeds and achievements; not
I, but the spirit and purpose of Ameri
ca; not I. but the prayers of just men;
not I, but civilization itself, nominates
to succeed himself to the presidency of.
the I nited States, to the presidency of i
a hundred million free people, bound in
impregnable union, the -iiolar, the
statesman, the financier, the emancipa
tor, the pacificator, the moral leader of
democracy, Woodrow Wilson."
SAW KITCHENER
ON SINKING SHIP
Survivor of the Cruiser Hampshire Said
That the Captain Called Kitchener to
Enter Boat as It Was Hoisted
Over Side.
London, June 16. Details of some of
the incidents on board the British cruiser
Hampshire, just bpfore she sank off the
Orkneys last week, causing the death of
Field Marshal Earl Kitchener, are given
in an official statement issued last night
based on statements by the dozen sur
vivors of the cruiser who were washed
ashore on a raft:
"From the report of the 12 survivors
VICTIMS IN LOCKED ARMS.
Two Men Were Killed in Auto Accident
at Fitchburg. "
Kitehburg. Mum., June 16. John I).
Hughes, 42 years old, superintendent, and
Kirmr !. Lindstroiu. 40 years old, as
sistant superintendent of the Manning.
Maxwell & Moore company, were killed
lat night when an automobile m which
they were riding struck a ledge on the
Ash by road, about live miles from Fitch
burg, and turned turtle. The men were,
pinned under the wreckage by the neck
and, in the opinion of the medical ex
aminer, strangled.
1 here were no witnesses to the acci
dent and while the authorities have
beemjnable to determine the exact man
ner in which it occurred they believe that
Mr. Hughe, who wa learning to drive,
Paris, June 1(1. Powerful German at
tacks made last night on French posi
tions southeast of Thiaumont farm on
the Verdun front broke down under
French machine gun and infantry fire,
according to Jo-day's official statement
which says that the Germans began the
assault at 0 o'clock in the evening on
the right bank of the Mcuse from Hill
32t to the e.Ue of Hill 323 and that at
the same time another attack was
launched on the southern edge of fail
lette wood. All the attacks were re
pulsed.
J he trench which was captured bv the
French yesterday on the southern slope
of Head Man's Hill also was the object
of several Oerman counter-attacks dur
ing the night, all of which failed, it was
announced' to-day. The prisoners taken
by the French at the time of the cap
ture of the trench numbered five officers
and J SO soldiers.
capture of an Additional 100 officers and
1,400 men was announced to-day by the
war oflice. The Russian successes in the
offensive along the southern front -is con
tinning, the statement declared.
GERMANS JOIN
IN BIG ATTACK
ON ITALIANS
Rome's Official Statement Says That
18,000 Teutonic Troops Advanced on
Asiago Plateau and Were
Defeated.
Rome, via London, June 16. Austro
German troops, estimated at 18,000, at
tacked in a dense formation Italian posi
tions on the Asiago plateau yesterday,
but were repulsed, leaving piles of corpses
oeiore the Italian trenches, savs an olli
ciul war statement to-day.
BRITISH RETREAT BEFORE TDRKS.
Have Withdrawn After Repulse Below
Kut-cl-Amara.
Constantinople, via London, June Ifi.
The further withdrawal of the British
elow Kiit-el-Amara on the Tigris after
the recent repulse bv the Turks of their
attempt to advance is reported to-day by
nie iu'kimi war. oiacc.
CONDITION
MORE SERIOUS
Theodore Roosevelt Had An
other Severe Cough
ing Spell
HIS VOICE CAN
HARDLY BE HEARD
Declared To-day Tha' i'e
Felt No Better P'
sician Caller' v
BULGARIANS CHANGE TROOPS.
Greater Part of Army Sent from Salon-
iki to Rumania Frontier.
Athens, via London, June 16. It was
reported to-day that the Bulgarians are
withdrawing the majority of their forces
from Salomki to the Rumania frontier.
TALI AN TOWNS
SEVERELY SHAKEN
FRENCH DRIVEN BACK
litLit rtiiti trl 'I'll a M-a y u ni 1 1' liu kai!
of the Hampshire," says the ttcmtt. WHnMdar Mr ,.in,I)itr(,m' Jwa vu.
ine io owing conc.us.ons weie reac-m,.: lintperp1 t( ,M(,h ,
As mon UAra tntinrr in flipii sl-l
. . . innprHtf it. 1 hp turn It'lt, f lip i?rac( a
I . .lit 1 . i. -:t.a. -1 1.. -...a A . . I 4 ... I,
iJIill WL Illg III, ctim KMR UUL j"ll
bv.
tions before abandoning the ship
Kitchener, accompanied by a naval offi
cer, appeared, me latter sam: .Mne
way for Lord Kitchener.' Both ascended
to the quarterdeck. Subsequently four
military officers were seen there, walking
aft on the port side.
"The captain called Lord Kitchener in
the fore bridge near where the captain's
boat was hoisted. The captain also
called Lord Kitchener to enter the boat.
It is unknown if Lord Kitchener en
tered it or what happened to any boat."
Georgia Physician to Go to Franklin.
Georgia, June 16. Dr. W. H. Wright.
who came to this town June 4, 1!12, to
practice medicine, is soon to move to
Franklin, his native town, to take over
the practice of Dr. IL H. Johnson who
is to move to et. Albans.
Dr. Wright was graduated from the
medical college of the University of Ver
mont, Burlington, in June, li'12. For
three years previous to that time he had
experience as a nurse in the Mary Fletch
er hospital, Burlington, and the Fanny
Allen hospital at Winooski park. Re
cently he has taken up surgical work to
some extent. j
The accident happened while they
cre returning to tins city.
W hen the men were found thev were
clasped in each other's arms with thei
feet protruding from one 'aide and th
machine resting on their necks on th
other side.
Wheel tracks in the roadway indiciit
that the driver lost control a short du
lance, from the ledge.
Clifford C. Foote who drives a mail
car between this city and Ashbv, diwov
ered the wrecked automobile, and alter
making an effort to free the men. nas
tened to a telephone and notified the
Fitchburg police. In the meantime as
sistance was secured and the heavy car
was lifted from the men, but examine
tion revealed that both were dead.
SECOND VICTIM DEAD.
Fred Steady Was Caught in Gravel Slide
at Shelburne.
Burlington. June 16. Fred Steady, the
second victom of the slide at Shelburne
Falls gravel pit Wednesday, died to-day
in a local hospital.
EVERYTHING READY FOR BIG CO-OPERATIVE
SALE, WHICH WILL BE OPENED TO-MORROW
"America" Greatest Democrat" Bryan.
In a lull in the prcneoiings last night
Chairman Jame called upon William
Jennings Pnan as "one of the leading
eitien of the world and Amenta's great
est Pcmovrit."
Mr. Bryan opened by expressing bis
appreciation of the honor conferred by
the invitation to speak to the convention
and taikel for 4." minutes. "Kery Iem
o.Ttic convention is a love fa-t to mr."
he said. "It gie me an opprtuniy to
rowt and renw a. quamt-ini-e with mn
it whom I hae twea as-' utl in
fs-lli,- tor more than 2" -t He
paid hi rr-pwt in comj-iinr'nUry insn-
Cott-nucd nn r;ghth ftge.
The big co-operative fare-refunding
sale inaugurated by The Barre limes
starts to-morrow morning.
Nearly 30 leading business houses of
this city have united in one splendid ef-
rt to attract more trade to Barre, and
iv so doing add to the city's already
well-known reputation as the trading
center for residents of the smaller cities,
towns and villages and prosperous farm
ing communities within a radius of 30
or 40 miles. These, merchants will throw
open their doors to-morrow morning for
seven days of fine value-giving sales.
There is one feature of this movement
that is extremely attractive to the men
and women from out-of-town who have
personal friends in Barre, and that is
that thev can combine two things, name
Iv, visit those friends and also do their
Fading. Many of the merchants have
informed The Times that they have re
ceived inquiries from quite a number of
people in such towns as Corinth, Wil
liamstown, and other communities, con
cerning the details of the plan, thus
showing their interest and signifying an
intention to come to Barre during the
week which will begin to-morrow- and
end with the following Saturday, inclu
ive a period when their fares will be
refunded.
Barre merchants are completely ready
with ample stocks of honest, depcndablo
merchandise, conveniently arranged for
the concnience of shoppers. Many of
th merchant have their stores taste
fully decorated in honor of the event,
and money -saving harcain which cannot j
fad to plee and satisfy have been
listed.
Ak for Refund Slips.
The greater part of to-day was pent
in getting everything in re.iinc f.ir the
openirg dy. Fare refund ng slips were
distributed to arh of the Mores taking
part in the !', ml el-rk were instruct
ed in their use. In t.is rine,ton it i
urjt ntly ri'J-tiJ that 'ij r tail
for these slips on entering any store; by
doing so, much time will be saved.
The carfare schedules have been thor
oughly worked out and carefully studied
by those who will have charge of the re-
fumiiiif of fares and just as soon as a
refund slip is presented to the clerk in
charge at The Times oflice, the cash fare
w ill be handed out.
Refund week i" a big advertisement for
Bane, and for this reason Barre mer
chants have joined heartily in promoting
it. While it may be said that in one
way no merchant expect to reap a rich
harvest in this sale, every one o tliim
expects to attract new customers who.
by reason of courteous treatment and
honest values at low prices, will become
regular patrons. In short, these mer
chants are dealing in futures; by making
satisfied customers, they expect to build i
up a trade for years to come ind estab
lish firmly in the minds of people that
Barre is the best place to trade.
A. P. Abbott Co., Dept. Store.
The Homer Fitta Co., Dept Store.
Union Dry Goods Co.
Union Clothing Co.
F. H. Rogert A Co, Clothing.
Rogers' Walk-Over Boot Shop.
Moore St Owens, Clothing and Shoes.
Shea's Shoe Store.
A. W. Badger & Co, Furniture.
People's Shoe Store,
lamorey Clothing Co.
The N. D. Phelps Co., Haidware.
Mrs. W. F. Shepard. Millinery.
Mrs. Flora Foster, Millinery.
The Vanchan Store. Dry Goods.
B. W. Hooker A Co, Furniture.
Tilden Shoe Co.
Frank McWnnrtet Co, Clothing.
C. W. Averill A Co, Hardware.
Barre Creamery Co.
Rockwood Studio, rhotcgrapfcs.
Marritn's C:rar Store.
Nourse A Wilson, Millinery.
Bertha A. Beattie. Art (ttoit.
H. A. Gosld. Pianos.
Bane Savings B;ck-
After Gaining Some Ground on Southern
Slope of Dead Man's Hill.
Berlin, Via London, June 16. Two
French attacks yesterday and last night
on the dernian line on the long southern
slope of Dead Mans hill were unsuccess
ful, the war office announced to-day. In
the first attack the French temporarily
gained some ground but counter attack
drove them back.
RUSSIANS USING
JAPANESE GUNS
New Weapons are More Powerful Than
Any Made By Russians and Charged
with Explosives Having Tre
mendous Power.
Ixwdon. June 16. A dispatch to the
Central News from PetrogVad says that
much of the effectiveness of the Rus
sian artillery in the great fJalician drive
is due to the use of tug Japanese guns.
These guns are said to be more powerful
than anv the Russians had heretofore
and are charged with shells used with a
new explosive of terrific destructive pow
er.
Forli and Rimini in Earthquake's Course
This Morning, But No Casualties
are Reported.
Rome, via Paris, June 16. A heavy
earth shock was reported this morning at
brli, a town in central Italv, having a
opulation of ,50,000 people, and at Rimi-
2S miles further east. I here were
no casualties.
FOOD RIOTING IN AMSTERDAM.
Police Cleared the Streets By Charging
the Crowds.
' Amsterdam, via London, June 16. Dis
turbances at Rotterdam by demonstra
tors against the high price of food were
repeated last night, especially in the
neighborhood of the town hall. There
was some stone throwing and the police
cleared the streets by charging the
erow'ds.
New York, June 16. Theodore Roose
velt suffered another severe coughing
spell hst night and to-day lie was hardly
able to speak above a whisper. A pliysi-
ian was called to the hold and later he
took Roosevelt to his office for an exam
ination. Colonel Roosevelt's nppcaranco
as heMeft the hotel was haggard and he
shook his head negatively when asked if
he felt any better.
Colonel Roosevelt was at the physi
cian's office twenty minutes and walked
back to the hotel alone very slowly. He
immediately retired t; his room, and
Mrs. Roosevelt left word at the ollice
that her husband would receive no call
ers to-day.. . .
PROMINENT MARSHFIELD MAN.
READY FOR COMMENCEMENT.
AUSTRIAN'S ABANDON
CZERNOWITZ CITY,
SAYS PETROGRAD
Arrested Large Number of People and
Forced Them to Accompany the Re
treating Troops to Point 76
Miles Southwest.
Pctrograd. via Ijondnn, June 16. De
tails regarding the reported evacuation
if Oernowitr. by the Austrian were
given in a tlispatch troiu rnucowina,
wluoh savs:
The Austrians. Ix-fore abandoning the
itv. arrested a number ot people aim
forced them to accompany the retreat
ing troops. Kauway mimig kiock
sent to Ilskani and the tracks about the
itv were desfrojed when loads of
wounded were sent to Dornavatra.
miles soiHhwest of tzernowitz.
150,000 AUSTRIAN PRISONERS.
Russian Drive Along Wide Front Shows
No Slackening.
Ivondon. June 16. The 12th day of the
reat Russian offensive again-t the Aus-
tro-Hungarians and tJermans from Vol-
hvnia to Bukowinn shows nowhere any
sign of slarkening. All along the frmt
fresh gain for the Russian troops and
the capture of thousand of additional
prisoner and of guns, nwehine pin and
war iipplie are claimed by the Rus
sians. The aggregate of prisoners now
exceeds 150.0fl.
While
rgrad give a report that
Goddard Friends, Students and Graduates
Hope for Pleasant Weather.
Goddard seminary is ready for its 47th
annual commencement and if the weather
man can be won over next week the al
fresco features of the program promise
to nuike the June closing one of the most
notable in the history of the institution.
Klaborate plans for the indoor exercises
have been completed and provisions for
welcoming a large number of alumni have
been made. The graduation class, in-
luding those whowre to receive diplomas
in the commercial course, numbers' no.
Kxaminatipns in progress throughout the
week are to be concluded to-morrow.
In recapitulation the various events
are planned as follows:
Sunday, June 18 f-ermon before the
graduating class in' the Universalist
church at 10:30 o'clock. Rev. Dr. Vincent
Eaton Tomlinson of Worcester, Mass.,
preacher.
Monday, June II) Commercial alumni
banquet in the seminary dining hall at 8
o clock. All who have attended God
dard's commercial class are invited; tick
ets .50 cents; business meeting following
the afterdinner exercises. ,
Tuesday. June 20 iraduating excr
cises of commercial class in (ioddard
chapel at 8 o'clock p. m. Atty. John W.
(iordon, speaker.
Wednesday, June 21 Concert by mu
sical departments in Goddard chapel at
8 P. m.
Thursday, June 22 Alumni literary
exercises at II a. m.; oration, Atty.
Stanley C. Wilson, 'P6, of Chelsea; music.
Cleaves' orchestra of Montpelier; alumni
association meeting at 1:30 p. m.; class
ihy exercises on the campus at 3 p. m.;
prize speaking at 8 p. m.j military drill
of the school battalion at fl p. m.
Friday, June 23 Graduating exercises
at 10 a. m.; commencement dinner, fol
lowed by speaking at 12:30 p. in.; recep
tion at the home of Dr. and Mrs. O. K.
Hollister. 34 Merchant street, at 4:30
p. ni.; reception hv teacher and class at
S p. m.
At the alumni literary exercises Miss
Kthel Hamilton of Wavland. Mass.,
whose home is in East Orange, will con
tribute a reading. Miss Hamilton is a
teacher in the Wavland public schools
and is well known to many GodAird i
alumni. I
Edwin A. Thomas Died at Hospital in
Burlington.
Marshficld, June 16. Edwin A. Thom
as, who underwent nn operation for gall
stones at the Mary Fletcher hospital last
.Monday, passed away w cdnesday at 0:30
p. ni., from the surgical shock. The re
mains were brought home Thursday, ac
companied by his wife and her niece,
Mrs. Inez Besett.
Mr. Thomas was a native of Walden
but located in Marshfield in 1886 and has
always been prominent in town affair.
He was highly respected by all and will
be greatly missed in the community on
account of his many sterling qualities.
At the time of his death he held the
offices of chairman of the library trus
tees, chief engineer of the fire depart
ment and town clerk. He has also served
as selectman and moderator and repre
sented the town in the legislature of
1306.
The funeral services will be held front
his late home Saturday at 1 p. m.
BALL PLAYERS COLLIDED.
of
One Goddard Student Got Fracture
Cheek Bone and Lacerations.
Two baseball players, each seeking to
field the. same high fly in center rieli
at Goddard campus Thursday afternoon,
came together with such force that se
rious consequences followed for one of
the players. Hamilton Berry of Mont
gomery, a junior at the school, sustained
a fractured cheek bone on the right side
of his face and lacerations alxuit the
right eye. Preston Connor of St. Johns
bury, a member of the senior class, was
rendered unconscious by the collision, but
was revived almost immediately with the
use of first-aid remedies.
Students procured an auto and hurried
Berry to the office of Dr. J. A. Wark. The
young man quickly recovered conscious
ness and was for returning to the field,
but the physcian's examination disclosed
a had bone fracture and practice was not
resumed. Last evening lr. D, C. Jarvis
was asked to look at the young man's
eye. Although the flesh abut the eye
was badly cut, the eyeball was not af
fected. Berry has been one of the most
consistent hitters in the seminary's crack
baseball team this year. His services will
not be available again this vear, but it i
expected that Connor will be able to ap
pear in the line-up Saturday, when (,ort-
dard plays the Italian A. C.
BOARD OF TRADE TO-NIGHT.
Prof. A. L. Smith of Hanover, N. H,
Will Address Meeting.
There will be a meeting of the entire
menilerhip of the Barre Hoard of Trade
this evening at 8 o'clock in the Granite
Manufacturer' hall in the C. W. Averill
bt.vk. Prof. A. I- Smith of Hanover. X.
H.. will be the guest of honor and will
adlres the meeting.
The officer of the organization are
semi-official advice, from ret J particularly '""
.1,. i. ,..:.. of the ivosni OT inur i prwm. ri""f
MASONIC WEEK ENDS.
With Meeting of Order of High Priest
hood in Burlington.
Burlington. June 16.--At the annual
meeting ot the uruer or tiign iricsmooa,
held last night in conjunction with Ma
sonic week, tne louowmg ouiccrs wero
elected: . President. Don V. Stone. Bur
lington; vice-president. J. Ross Roberts,
Manchester; recorder, t,eorge . hoot.
Newport; chaplain. Rev. Ch:nlcs I. Par-
ridge, Woodstock: master ot ceremonies,
C. B. Crowell. Brattleboro; conductor,
lieorge X. Tilden. Bane; herald, G. 1.
Whitney, Bellows Falls: steward. J. F.
Benedict, Burlington: sentinel. Arthur a.
Katon. Montpelier. The following 12
new high priests were appointed: Charle
A. Davis of Burlington. I. G. Denney. A.
G. Katon, D W. Edson. ami R. J. Fit
Id of Montpelier. B. W. Howland of
Brandon. M. B. White of Morri-ville,
A. Robert of Rutland. A. I Pet tee of
Brattleboro. A. H. Furher of Woodstock,
Gordon Watson of Baric and C. A.
Wheeler of White River Junction.
The order voted to hoi I a banquet an
the annual meeting here next year. Th
total memlrrship is now ahout 2.50.
INTERMENT AT WILSON CEMETERY
Holder Was He'd
six
F t 1 . . -
low your conn'iencr ni inieresi in ice
'organiation bv attending ttiis meeting.
It will loan vour officer-. liiect"r
mmiuce renewed eninusiasm.
mi I
have evacuated Oernowitr. capital of
Bukowina. the latest official communica-
tMn from Austrian heaclijuarter mv
the tr"ps of Kmperor Franci .Toeph are
iraking stand f 'rth and east nf tfei
ritv. and at both point hot fepul-ed j
F,uin attacks. In the drive westward I . , ., , . .
from the region ot l.ufk the Autrian. Mtp T- Hemck Also Goes Into Confer
WHITMAN SEES HUGHES.
are coiiriTT aim' king ci rnirencning
themselves in tr position for a anl
.- n-t the Fu-ir..
ence with Him.
RUSSIAN ADVANCE KEEPS ON.
(Ofleniive Altsg Southern Freet Is Sna ;
' Sucre? rfiiL I
t't i .a Usl'n. Jun 15,-lte
I
Xew Yoik. June 16.- Governor Whit
man arrived to-day from Albany and held
a conference with t ha'les K. Hughe, to
EetKer with Mvron T. Herri, k of nin,,.
1 e former amS..,r t ranee, H'lVe
u eipe-tH to leave t'av
to return here prv!iU'v Mm
c i'. t.
Funeral of Thomas R.
Thursday Afternoon.
The funeral f Thomas R. Udder. tr
many vear t orre-j-ondnig secretary of
the liuier and boxers' union. who-
death at hi home in M"iint Vernon
pin.e Tuesday ii"ru!ng to!!.. wed a lr
iiln... i hel.l at t!c hoi!c Thursday
! Mcrmn at 2 . '. hs k. Bev. B. J. Le
iliigli. pa'or of the I Tt !- tit hnrelt,
L.rtx lating. Those b attended imlud-
delegation Irot.i te imc-n and .r r
I fincland Order of I r- t t i"'r. Imm
it'se -civi c Mi- Henrietta Injlw sac;
a s.'lu.
j The larer fe.e: .'aires , t c V,
Maine I.ier-m. vlvr!rr K. I'errv . Fre 1
! W. vnt-r. -e,-etjit- ! tie q nan v w -t k
rr' irt-1 nt "nal nn.'. 5wil M. Hunt.
tor Wast- 'and l.ci v. w. I teniim- we
t 'taken t -ata lr ir!e:ii:i t i.
t'-e W --n cerretery.
