...
VOL. XXXV.
WESTON, OltEOON, FJUPAY, JUXE 10, 1910.
NO. 52.
WORLD'S DOINGS
OF CURRENT WEEK
mm STUAT10M BECOMES SER
IOUS; KINK SKIP READV 10 SA1
REPUBLICANS SELECT HUGHES
From All ted Iftc Earth.
MM RATPIKGS LI A NUTSfifll
X.
Pacific Northwest Condensed
; for Our Busy Readers.
WaaWngton. D. C-Wlth 1600 ad-1
Idlllonal regular troopa ordered to the I
I Mexican border Monday night and re-
porta of the rapid spread of antl-
nnfl KPC ?HP fil ItfPPnil KPW from consuls all ovar Northern Meal-
i umniipirnwuH viuciai nwn in. v i
tempt to disguise thalr uneasiness. It I
was officially admitted that tbera la
I growing alarm ovar what tha agitation
mar produce and tha possibility of an
attack on Conaral Pershing's expedi
tion.
Fart of tha Incraaalng apprehension I
hart la dua to tha renewed raid In tha
Laredo region. Beveral r porta deal-1
Uva News Items of All Nations and '" tb dtuattaii .V"? v' 1
details, but thay gava tha Impression
of having raaaon to believe serious
lurKHM waa behind the bandit raid on I
tha Coleman ranch. Tbrea raider I
were killed and thraa captured, one re-
port adding that they triad to burn a I
railroad bridge near Laredo but failed.
The new force aant to Join General I
Funaton'a border patrol, Secretary!
Dakar said, waa to Jill in gsps in the
guard aucb aa that near Laredo. It I
will be composed of 10 rompaniea oil
roaat artillery and a battalion of en
gineers. The artillerymen will be
withdrawn from fortification between
Portland. Ma., and Sandy Hook, and
tha englneera will go from barracka in
till city. Tha aecretary aald there
waa no preaent Intention of calling out
additional National Guard regimental
for border duty.
General Mann, commanding at La
redo, reported that patrol of three
cavalrymen were fired on during the I
night of June JO, near toe town or
Hachita. and Private W. L. Saudera,
troop K, 12th cavalry, slightly wound-1
La led. Two mounted Mexlrana who did
the firing escaped.
A message from Captain Hurrage, I
commanding the battleabip Nebraska
at Vara Cm, said there waa consider
able unreat In that region due appar
ently to tha currency situation. There
were no rvidencea of tinfrlendlin
toward American, the message aald.
It adJed that tha Carransa government
had bean tending troona and ammuni
tion Inland. Captain Bun-age did not
know tha object of theae troop move
ments. Tha State department, through
Special Agent Kodgera, at Mexico City
haa called the attention of the de facto I
King Conatantlna of Greece haa de
cided to order the complete demo
bilisation of the Creak army.
Ruaalan torpedo boat deatroyera have
aunk 18 large Turkish ahlpa laden with
merchandlae off the Anatolian coast.
Tha lull ana have continued their
advance in tha Area valley. In tha
Paaublo sector and along tha Poalna
Aatlco Una In tha Southern Tyrol.
Tha Norwegian s Warner Fro. per III
haa (truck mine and aunk. Tha flrat
officer of tha vessel la believed to be
the only aurvivor. She aalled from
Newport Nawa May ZO for La Palllee,
Prance,
Bryant J. C O'Connor, metal
, worker at San Francisco, falls aaven
atorlva to the pavement from a scaffold
on an office building and aupriaea pec
Ulor by riaing and attempting
walk away.
Manor shipments to Portland and
Multnomah county conaumera for May
touted 10.377. April records ahow
tWM consumer. In May there
842V purchasers of pure alcohol for
"external" use.
formation of National Democratic
Woman 'a league waa announced In Chi
eago recently by Mrs. Joanna E.
Downs, prealdent of an Ulinola Pemo-
eralie women a organisation. It win
represent, aha declare. 75.000 woman
throughout the United State.
.
., i mi... .. . I. i in iiiww.Mn - ui
" ' ' f
, . '. v. -.
' ! I ' - ' ' . ' ..-!.'''.
i 'I. v. , ' - . . ,:. , ;
1 Ir Ma. -'"' r .' i ,".-i. t t-
1 1 X
L ;, x-: '
nwiuumt In tha anti-American out-I
Tha Bulgarian legation at Ducbareat U-eaka. which for neartv two weeka
ha received InformaUon that the Bui- jy, bee iprding ateadily. Many
garla-Koumanian ironuay will a tern- tewna have held maaa meeting
porarlly doaad againat paaaengera or I pTOtcfud gminat tha continued prea.
marchandiae, aaya Reuter di .patch
from tha Koumanian capital. It la be
lieved that Bulgaria baa taken thia
tepto maak Important troop move
nenta. ' 'vi?
Supreme Court Justice is Nominated on Third Ballot, Vote
Being Practically Unanimous. -rr--:T:y
ance of American troona In Mexico. In
two or thraa inatancee American prop- j
erty haa been attacked, but no threat
againrt Uvea of Americana have been
reported. The reporta of conaula tell-
Coliaeum, Chicago, June 10. Charlea
Evan liug-eh waa named today tha
Holding
that Indiana ara not made U-agiut.on wore turned over Republic candidate I the coming
eitlien of the United State by re
ceipt of altotmenta of land, the Su
premo court auatainad an Indictment
againat Fred Nice, charged with Bail
ing liquor at Carter, S. D., to George
Cortiar. a Sioux Indian with alloted
land. - Tha dafanae contended that
Mate law applied to tha caaa. ':
German Infantry attacked French
poeltlona waat of Fort Vaux on the
Verdun front Tueaday night. Tha
aault failed entirely, the official report
aaya. The German continued their
heavy bombardment in tha region
north of Bouville and Tavannea . forta.
Waat of the Meuae there waa heavy
artillery action In tha vicinity of Chat
Uncourt.
i:v A rumor la in circulation In Petro
grad that tha Runaiana have occupied
Cxernowitx, capital of the Auatrlan
. crownland of Hukowina. Tha rumor
lack ofilclal confirmation, but color
baa been given by tha capture of Do-
. bronovUe, a commanding point 10
mllea to tha northeast, Tha Ruaalan
Una extend to Okna. From both
theao point good road lead direct to
Cxernowitx, and, according to military
authorities they are tha only pointa in
thia direction capable of defenae.
4 A decree of divorce la granted to
lira. Claude Crahame-Whlte, in Lon
don, formerly Mlsa Dorothy Taylor, of
New York, from her huiband, tha avi
ator. .
On account of tha general strike tha
Norway government haa passed a law
prohibiting tha sale or Importation of
to the Carransa offldala more aa
matter of Information than aa repre-i
scntatlona. Where hi regular troops
are in control, apparently General Car
ransa baa earnestly tried in moat case
to prevent the holding of protest meet
ing and in some places contemplated
meetings and parade have been pre
vented. Thore are Instances, however,
where the troopa appear to have stood
idly by while the egitatora atirred up !
antagonism against the United State.
O.Hciala here have bean unable to
determine tha inspiration behind tha
sudden outbreak of anti-American
feeling, or to estimate the ability ot
General Carransa to protect American
Uvea and property. They feel that tha
real danger Ilea in the possible action
of Irregular forces now under tha Car
ransa banner, but whose commanders
yield doubtful allegiance to the central
government.
San Diego, CaL The naval trans
port Buffalo la under orders here to ba
ready for an immediate dash to the
west coast of Maxcio to pick up Amer
ican refugeea In the event of spread I
of anti-American feeling in the south
ern republic. Thia became known
Tuesdsy, when orders for the vessel to
proceed to Mare island for repairs
were revoked by tha Navy department.
Large stores of supplies were taken on
board the Buffalo and the vessel's
bunkers were filled to capacity with
coal.
Convict Escapes Under Auto.
Salem, Or. It waa announced Tues-
election. It waa 11:27 o'clock when
Delaware waa reached on the third roll
call of the convention. The vote to
that point bad been practically unani
mous, all opposition had collapsed, the
name of Roosevelt bad been with
drawn, and the fight aa over.
Seldom haa there been a convention
of any party in which the final mo
ments were aa tense aa those in the
Coliseum today. From the first minute
of the convention gathering it waa al
most a certain thing that Hughes
would win. but dread of Roosevelt
power and dickering with the Bull
Moose convention made every man in
the Caliaeum uneasy, until Alabama,
Arixona, Arkansas and California votes
PROGRESSIVES NAME ROOSEVELT
. WHO DECLINES.
promomng tna saia or importation w d nght ,t tha Oregon SUte peniten-
atrong liquors, wine and beer, and tha , ? . . . . " ... .
shipment of liquors throughout the tf7 "'nv'c'
country. The police also have been
' ordered to prevent the serving of wine
and beer In restaurants.
American marines and Haitian
gendarmea killed tha revolutionary
chiefs, Welellus and Codlo, and nine of
their men In a fight near Fonda Var
retea Sunday. No mention of Ameri
can casualties is made In the State de
partment dispatch reporting the Incl-dnet.
A bill pending In the house to give
exclusive fishing rights to persons fil
ing surveys on trap sites waa attacked
. by Delegate Wlckersham, of Alaska,
aa putting tha Paciflo salmon industry
Into the bands of a trust A combina
tion already haa surveyed all salmon
trap sites, Wickeraham declared.
- Senator Borah of Idaho, writes the
Mexican plank for the Republican
party. He waa asked by Senator
Lodge to do this because of bis well
known views of President Wilson's
Mexican policy. ! ; .
Fort Vaux, one of the Verdun de
fences, ha been captured by the Ger
man troops, according to the official
statement issued from tha Berlin
hcardquartcrs. What remained of the
French- garrison finally surrendered,
snd an attempt to relieve the fort
Tuesday resulted in the capture by the
Germans of 700 unwound ed prisoners.
aged 82, had escaped Monday by con
cealing himself beneath tha bed ot an
automobile truck from the state school,
which had entered tha penitentiary en
closure, and riding thereon in conceal
ment to safety. Drecker'a absence was
discovered and an Investigation dii
closed the meana be had employed In
training his liberty. He waa commit
ted to tha penitentiary from Portland
in 1915 on conviction of larceny.
Marksmanship Declared Bsd,
Berlin Officers of the German
cruisers Elbing and Frauenlob inter
viewed in the Frankfurter Zeitung
emphasise what they describe aa the
"extraordinarily bad markmanshlp"
of the British gunners in the North
Sea battle. ,
For a long peroid, they declare, the
Elbing waa exposed to the continuous
heavy fire of British dreadnaughta and
a single fair hit would have sufficed to
sink her, but she waa not hit once.
Airman Work Near Suet .Canal.
London The following official com
munication concerning the operations
in Egypt waa - made public Tuesday
night: "Hostile aeroplanes bombard
ed Kantara, 80 miles south of Port
Said on the Sues canal and a machine
gun fired on Romani Tueaday. They
were driven off by British aircraft
with a few minor casualties at Kan
tara. No one waa Injured at Romani."
P ; (
. x a' ' -fS-1 l
lMitfrisiife Mi1aalilsi .irTMaiTrissrtil
Oyster Bay, N. Y., June 11 Theo
dore Roosevelt reiterated tonight that
he is "our of politics."
Chicago, June 10 Theodore Roose
velt's nomination waa made unani
mously by the Progressive party con
vention here today.
Oyster Bay, June 10 "To the Pro
gressive convention: I am very grate
ful for the honor you confer upon me
by nominating me aa President. I can
not accept it at thia Jima."
Plow Uncovera Heirloom.
Dayton, Wash. An heirloom watch,
lost six years ago by George Jcnes,
came to light a few days ago when
County Commissioner Lee Lindley
turned a furrow in a field he was plow
ing and brought the relic to the sur
face. Jones lost the watch while at
tie Lindley farm aix years ago, and had
never been able to find it, although he
had looked carefully many times. It
wsa in a silver case, which was badly
discolored from long contact with the
earth, but after Lindley had wound it
it ran aa well a tha day it was lost.
' "I want to tell you newspaper men,"
he said, "that it'a no use for you to
come up here to see me, I will have
nothing to say. I will answer no ques
tions, so please don't ask roe to. I
am out of politics."
50,000 Fire In Seattle.
Seattle One man lost his life in a
fire which destroyed the wharf at the
Standard Oil company' storage plant
at Richmond Beach, 16 miles north of
Seattle, Tuesday, causing a loss esti
mated at J50.000. The fire waa caused
by the explosion of an oil drum on the
wharf, and quickly enveloped the struc
ture, on which waa stored 1000 drums
of oil. . Three men who were working
on the wharf were forced to jump into
the water when the Games swept over
the pier. Jamea Farmer, one of the
workmen, waa drowned.
had shown that the Hughes landslide
had aet in. -
Colorado, on the first calL cast nine
votes for Hughes and three for Roose
velt, but no sooner had Delaware voted
for Hughes than Colorado switched.
withdrew Roosevelt's name and cast
ita solid vote for Hughes.
Hughes' total vote waa 949. He
waa actually nominated when New
Jersey was reached.
HUGHES
ACCEPTS
NOMINATION
Washington, D. C, June 10 Charles
Evans Hughes stepped down today
from the Supreme bench and, again a
private eitisen, accepted the Republi
can nomination for President. In a
telergam ringing with denunciation of
the administration's foreign policy and
declaring for a dominating, thorough
going Americanism, he gave bta decis
ion to Chairman Harding, of the Re
publican Natoinal . convention, and
broke the long silence which had kept
the leaders of hia party in tha dark aa
to hia attitude toward the great issues
of the day. . .
I have not desired the nomina
tion," aaid the telegram. "I have
wished to remain on the bench. But
in this critical period of oar National
history, I recognise that it ia your
right to summon and it ia my para
mount duty to respond."
Within an hour after Chairman
Harding had notified him of his nomi
nation Mr. Hughes had accepted the
calL Hia resignation, a scant two-
line letter without a superfluous word,
was on ita way to the White House,
from the Hughes home before the
nominee had dispatched the message of
acceptance, and called the waiting
group of newspaper men into his study
to tell them of his decision. President
Wilson accepted the resignation in a
reply almost as brief. Apparently
Mr. Hughes letter waa framed so that
the President might be saved the em
barrassment of expressing regret or
making more than a formal reply.
"I hereby resign the office of asso
ciate justice of the Supreme Court of
the United States," he wrote. To
which the President replied : "I am
in receipt of your letter of resignation !
and feel constrained to yield to your
desire. I therefore accept your resig
nation as juaitce of the Supreme Court
of the United States, to take effect at
once."
Wsshington, D. C President Wil
son Sunday put hia final approval
plana for the Democratic National con
vention at St. Louis. After attending
church with Mrs. Wilson ia the mora-
insv htrrlent the afternoon and even
ing eoruiaingorl'h .Democratic lead-
era.
Secretary Baker, who will be dele
gate to the convention, aaw the rresl
dent twice, and Dudley Field Malone,
collector of eustoma at New York, also
conferred with him.
The Mexican plank In the Demo
cratic platform la giving administra
tion officiate some concern because of
the continued uncertainty of the aitua-
tion. It waa understood tbst the plank
will emphasize the policy of the rresl
dent of interfering aa little as possible
in the internal affair of Mexico.
Although the President planned to
select a chairman of the Democratic
National convention before tbeconver
tion. be had not made up hia mind
Sunday night. Homer Cummings,
National committeeman from Connec
ticut, and vice-chairman of the com
mittee, appeared to be the most likely
choice.
Mr. Wilson probably will receive
official notification of hia nomination
at Shadow Lawn, the estate he hai
taken for the summer in New Jersey,
Although he plana to remain in Wash
ington until congress adjourns, he
probably will make a abort viait to
Shadow Lawn for the occasion.
Ccaferesce ea fczis El L'c'y ,
la frase V.&m fey k!y 1
Washington, D. C The good roads
bill, which is now in the hands of
conference committee, ia expected to
be adjustied and submitted to the sen
ate and house of representative for
final adoption when congress resumes
active business after the National con
ventions. Present indications are that
the Walsh amendment appropriating
8 L 000, 000 a year for ten years lor
roada in forest reserves will be agreed
to. especially aa Representative Shack
leford, chairman of the house commit
tee, is disposed to favor thia proposi
tion. .
There is radical difference between
the roada bill passed by the boose, and
the bill subsequently passed by the
senate, but there ia strong sentiment
in both branches of congress in favor
of some sort of good roads bitL and in
view of this demand, the conference
committee is expected to get together
with aa little delay aa possible, that
some bill may be put into effect Dy or
before July 1.
The Walsh amendment is substan
tially the plan proposed by the secre
tary of Agriculture, and while the
money paid for roada will, in the first
instance, be appropriated for the
treasury, the appropriations will be
reimbursed in time from that portion
of forest reserve receipts that other-
would go direct to the states. It
been generally agreed among
Western senators and representatives
that it will be impossible to secure
outright appropriation from the treas
ury for building roads in forest re
serves, and accepting that situation,
Westerners have been content to ac
cept the Walsh plan.
6cnnanys Dead 734,412.
London Germany, up to the end of
May, bad lost 2,924,586 soldiers, of
whom 734,412 were killed, according
to a British official tabulation of the
German casualty lists given out here.
The compilation did not include Ger
man losses in naval engagements or in
the fighting in the German colonies.
The British official statement quotes
the German casualty lists for the
month of May aa placing the total Ger
man losses in killed, prisoners and
wounded at 102,607.
The German figruea in the May list,
as enumerated in the British account.
are as follows: Dead, 22,471; wound
ed, 72,075; prisoners and . missing.
7961: total 102,507.
The German official lists of casual
ties up to the end 'of May give these
totals: Dead, 734,412; wounded, 1,
851,652; total 2,924,686.
Newspaper Owner Diss.
Washington, D. C. John R. Mc
Lean, owner of the Washington Post
and the Cincinnati Enquirer, died at
hia home here Friday after a long ill
ness. Mr. aicijean, wno waa in ma
68th year, had been Buffering from
complication of diseases for several
months. He waa a native of Cincin
nati. As young man he acquired hia
father s interest in the Enquirer, and
in 1887 became sole owner of the pa
per. Then years ago he bought the
Washington Post. or years he waa
active in Ohio and National politics.
AMERICANS' PERiL
MEXICO GROVS
Asressest Betweoi Gesirals Persfclnj
.
FEOitrra
HELD DimCULT
General Trevino Notifies American
Officer That Gavira Acted WiLV .
out Authority of Carranza.
Kaiser Rewsrds Sea Fighters.
Amsterdam, via London The em
peror, according to a Benin aispatcn,
has promoted Vice Admiral Scheer,
commander of the German battle fleet,
to be admiral. Vice Admiral Hipper
has been awarded the order of pour le
merite. War decorations of various
kinds also have been awarded officers
and men who distinguished themselves
in the North Sea battle. The emperor
laid a wreath on the grave of a number
of dead at Wilbelmshaven. The em
peror and empress also visited the
wounded in the hospital there.
British Gain In South Africa.
London British troopa invading
German East Africa from the north
have captured Mombo, a town on the
railroad in the Usambara district of
German East Africa. Another British
foree, operating from Rhodesia, haa
occupied the town of Bismarck burg, on
the southeastern shore of Lake Tang
anyika. In the first movement the
British bridged the Pangani river at
Mikotsheni. The Germans are still be
ing engaged by Major Van Deventer.
Work in Oil Felda Halts.
Mobile, Ala Arrivals from Tampi-
co aboard the Britain yacht Yoskel
Tuesday said operations in the oil
fields had been suspended and that
foreigners had been warned by Carran
sa officer not to be found outside the
city. Ranchmen in the vicinity of
Tarn pi co, it was said, have left their
places under threats.
San Antomo, Tex. What ia regard
ed by American army officers as official
repudiation of the agreement entered
into by Generals Pershing and Gavira
waa contained in a curt message from
General Jacinto Trotino to General
Pershing, Informing him that General
Gavira had no authority to dieaosa
military subjects with him. General
Pershing sent a copy of General Tre-
vino's message to department head
quarter here. . ,
The agreement . between Generals
Pershing and Gavira had to do with
disposition of troops in the territory
controlled by the American punitive
expedition, and waa intended aa a pre
caution that might prevent unauthor
ized dashes. .
Genera Gavira waa ordered to Mex
ico City about the time General Tre
vino sent hi message to General Per
Official advices have been received
by General Funston that General ' Ga
vira haa asked officers at Chihuahua to
supply him with list of foreign resi
dents other than Americans, explain
ing that he wisbea to know them in
order to afford them protection; that
he would be glad to accord protection
to Americana as well, but that, in
view of the increasing antagonism by
Mexicans, he regarded it aa practically
impossible to do so.
It became known that only the with
drawal of Colonel Sibley's foree that
entered Mexico after the raid at Glenn
Springs prevented it from being at
tacked by Carransa troops. Army offi
cers here have learned that a force of
1000 troopa had been sent northward
with orders from the Governor of Coa
huila to get in contact with the Araer
lean troops and force them out of Mex'
ico.
fcrFJglis caLsnicdSca
Washington. D. C. Charles E.r
Hughes' telegram accepting . the Re-
publican nomination for President
makes a strong issue of American re
lations with foreign nations, which he
declares have "suffered incalculably",
from the weak and vacillating course,
taken in the past.
: He favors an undivided Americanism?
on the part of all eitizena. i
t Following are important points in1
Mr. Hughes' telegram of acceptance:"!
Firm stand taken for American?
rights on land and sea.' - '
Foreign relations in past declared tq ,
have suffered from weak and vaciliat-'
ing course pursued. -:
Desire expressed to see American'
diplomacy restored to ita best stand-.,
arils.' ' ,.
Letter demands Americanism that
knows no ulterior purpose, for patriot-
ism single and complete.
Preparednesa demanded not only
adequate for defense, not only in re
spect to numbers . and equipment of
both army and navy, but with all thor
oughness in every branch of service.
Peace ideals placed first. Hanger el
militarism denied. Nation has no pol
icy of aggression, but must have
strength which self-respect demands.
Fair readjustment or tariff favored
as preparation for test to come after
war. . .... .
Expansion of foreign trade sought.
"We must not throttle American en
terprise here or abroad, but rather
promote it and take pride in honorable
achievements."
Party platform fully indorsed.
Taft Hopea Colonel Will Support.
Philadelphia Former President
Taft, who waa the' principal orator at
the commencement exercises of Tem
ple University here, issued a statement
endorsing former Justice Hughes and
Charles W. Fairbanks, the Kepublicas
nomine se for President and vice prei
dent, and expressing the hope that Cot
Roosevelt would support them. He
approved the platform adopted by the
Remiblicans and predicted that event
ually the progressives would unite with
the parent party and work for tbe
election of Hughes and Fairbanks. ,
Alfonso Pleads for Spy. J
Madrid, via Paris King Alfonso has
appealed to the emperor of Austria in
favor of Dr. Karl Kramsrs, Under of
the Hungarian Ciefh partv snd several
of his companions, who have been con
demned to death on charges of treason.
A dispatch from Vienna on Jus 4
said that Kramers and three
members of the Hanjiuian O.ivh :y
had been found guiity of I i l"
son and espionage and srtri-'d to
death.
