THE
TIMES-
PAGES 1 TO 8
OWOSSO THE CITV OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVIH
OWOSSO. MICHIGAN, JUNE 16. 1916.
NO. 12
hughe
AG
FfllRBAfE
Republicans Name Strong Men Whose
Selection is Hailed With Joy
Throughout the Country.
Justice Hughes Resigns-lssues Clear and Force
ful Statement of Acceptance.
With the names of eleven candidates presented to the Republican national
convention for the presidential nomination and with the vote on the first ballot
scattered among seventeen favorite sons and on the second ballot sixteen, the
nomination went to Charles Evans Hnghes of New York, almost by acclamation
on the third ballot. The firat ballot (rave Hughes 253 votes. Root 103, Barton
77), Weeks 105, Dapont 12, Sherman 66, Fairbanks 74, Cummins 85, Roosevelt
65, LaFollette 25, McCall 1, Ford 82, Brumbaugh 29, Knox 36, Willis 4, Taft 14.
The second showed Hughes 828, Root 98, Burton 76, Weeks 79. Dapont 13,
Sherman 65, Fairbanks 88, Cummins 85, Roosevelt 80, Knox 37, LaFollette 25.
This ballot foreshadowed the nomination of Hughes and during the adjourment
' of the convention from Friday until Saturday, several of the aspirants dropped
out and their followers declared for the man wanted by the rank and file of the
Republicans of the countryHughes. The decisive ballot gave Hughes 949
votes, Roosevelt 18, Lodge 7, Dupont 5. Lafollette 8. The nomination was
quickly made unanimous by the convention amid great enthusiasm, the motion
being seconded in a rousing talk by Senator Henry Cabot Lodge of Massa.
chusetts, who earlier in the day had been proposed by ex-President Roosevelt as
a compromise candidate on whom both the Republicans and Progressives could
unite. The nomination for vice president went to Charles W. Fairbanks of
Indiana, on the first ballot, who was elected to that office on the ticket with
Roosevelt in 1904. The roll call showed 863 votes for Fairbanks, 108 for Burkett,
8 for Borah. The vote of Michigan was unanimous for both Hughes and
Fairbanks on the deciding ballot and but for the presidential preference vote in
April it is probable that Hughes would have had the entire vote from the start.
As It is Michigan's declaration at the state convention and the stand of the
delegates are both recognized as Important factors in the final result. The con
yention was one of the greatest in the history of the party absolutely free from
bossism, harmonious, enthusiastio and unitedly for the nomination of Hughe?,
who was in no sense a candidate and for whom no one had authority to speak
Immediately after the receipt of the news of his nomination Mr. Hughes
filed with President Wilson his resignation as one of the Justices of the U. S.
Supreme court, which was accepted and then followed his telegram of
acceptance of the nomination. An hour later Hughes was ready to begin work
. tnr thA PAmnnlcn and parlv Mondav morninff was in New York to meet rartv
leaders to plan for the battle which will end November.T with the election of
uugnes ana jjairoanas.
HUGHES ACCEPTS NOMINATION IN A TELEGRAM RINGING WITH
PATRIOTIC UTTERANCES
Replying to the telegram sent by Chairman Harding notifying him of
his nomination tor tne presidency uy tne nepuDiican national convention,
Charles Evans Hughes m accepting outlined ins policies as iollows:
Mr. Chairman and Delegates:
I have not desired the nomination; I have wished to remain on the
bench. But in this critical period in our national history I recognize that
it is your right to summon and it is my paramount duty to respond. You
speak at a time oi national exigency, transcending, merely partisan condi
tions. You voice the demand for a dominant, thoroughgoing Americanism
with firm protective upbuilding policies essential to our peace and security;
and to that call in this crisis I cannot fail to answer with the pledge of
all that is in me to the service of our country. Therefore I accept the
nomination.
Full Rights for Americans.
I stand for the firm and unflinching maintenance of all the rights of
American citizens on land and sea. I neither impugn motives nor under
estimate differences, but it is most regretably true that in our foreign rela
tions we have suffered incalculably from the weak and vacilating course
which has been taken in regard to Mexico, a course lamentably wrong in re
gard to both our rights and our duties. We interfered without consistency
and, while seeking to dictate when we were not concerned, we utterly fniled
to appreciate and discharge our plain duty to our citizens.
On International Relations.
Our desire is to see our liplomacy restored to its best standards and
to have these advanced, to have no sacrifices of national interest to partisan
expediences, to have the first ability of the country always at its command
here and abroad, in diplomatic intercourse to maintain firmly our rights
under international laws, insisting steadfastly upon all our rights ns
neutrals, fully performing our international obligations, and by the clear
correctness and justness of our sition and our manifest ability, and
disposition to sustain them to dignify our .place among the nations.
At the outset of the administration the high responsibilities of our diplo
matic intercourse with foreign nations were subordinated to a conception
of partisan requirements and we presented to the world a similating spectacle
of inaptitude. Belated efforts have not availed to recover the influence and
prestige so unfortunately sacrificed and brave words have been stripped of
their force by indecision.
I stand for an Americanism that knows no ulterior purpose, for n
patriotism that is single and complete. Whether native or naturalized, of
whatever race or creed, we have but one country and we do not for an
instant tolerate any division of allegiance.
' I believe in making prompt provision to assure absolutely our national
security. I believe in preparedness, not only adequate for our defense with
respect to numbers and equipment in both army and navy, but with all
thoroughness, to the end that in each branch of the service there may be
the utmost elliciency under t lie most competent administrative heads.
For an Adequate Defense.
We are devoted to the ideals of honorable peace. We wish to promote
all wise and practicable measures for the just settlement of international
disputes. In view of our abiding ideals there is no danger of militarism
in this country. We have no policy of aggression, no lust for territory, no
zeal for strife. It is in this spirit that we demand adequate provision for
national defense and we condemn the inexcusable neglect that has been
shown in this matter of first national importance. e have and must
have the strength which self-respect demands, the strength of an efficient
nation ready for .emergency.
Our preparation must bo industrial and economic as well as military.
Our severest tests will come after the war is over. We must make a
fair and wise readjustment of the tariff in accordance with $ound protec
tive principles, to insure our economic independence and to maintain Ameri
can standards of living.
Consetve Labor's Interests.
.We must conserve the just interests of labor, realizing that in a
democracy patriotism and national strength must be rooted in even-handed
justice. In preventing, ns we must, unjust discrimination and monopolistic
practices, we must still be zealous to assure the foundations of honest
business. Particularly should we seek the expansion of foreign trade. We
must not throttle American enterprise here or nbroad, but rather promote
May Fish Today.
The bass season opened today and a
large number of Owosso people are
- I missing from their regular places at
aesKs, scores ana lactones. The law
prohibits the catching of bass under
ten inches in length and more than 10
so it is probable there will not be many
violations of the law.
Masonic Picnic.
At a meeting of delegates from Masonic
lodges of the county held Monday even
ing, it was decided to hold the annual
picnic of the 3hlawassee County Ma
sonic Picnic Association at McCurdy
park on August 17. A program of ath
letic sports, including two ball games,
will be carried out aid a general good
time enjoyed. Several committees were
appointed and will work out the details
of the events. It is planned to secure a
good speaker for the day. These will
be another meeting la Owosso, Tues
day evening, June 27.
m
Retailors Plan Community Day Picnic.
Tentative plans were made Mon
day night for the annual picnic and
community day meeting, during a
meeting of the retailers at Connor's
cafe. It was decided to hold the af
fair at McCurdy park sometime about
the middle of August. All business
places will be closed on that day and
no pains will be spared to Insure all
of the many who are to attend, a
good time.
The retailers also voted to refuse
their endorsement to a Chicago firm
which desires to canvass in Owosso
in an attempt to increase the sale of
its products.
CHAUTAUQUA.
Rural Carriers Meet.
The Shiawassee County Rural Car
riers' Association held a meeting in the
postoffice building on Saturday evening
with a good attendance, considering the
bad condition of the roads. The car
riers had a good time socially and elect
ed the following officers:
President Clifford Lewis, Byron.
Vice President Will Perkins, Hen
derson. Secretary-treasurer Harry Sheffield,
Lalngsburg.
; Member executive committee Glenn
Blair, Owosso.
Delegate to state meeting in Charle
voix July 5 6 L. P. Royce.
The next semi- annual meeting and
basket picnic will be held Labor day.
It is expected that all of the carriers
and their ladies will be present on this
occasion.
Announcement of Albert L. Nichols
for County Clerk.
In making this announcement I will
Plans for Owosso'a Fin Course Dis
. cussed by Improvement
Association.
At the Tuesday luncheon of the Im
provement Association, Fred W. Smith,
the new president, called the meeting
to order and was heartily greeted. He
turned over the gayel to L. L. Conn for
a discussion of the chautauqua plans.
Mr. Conn explained the work done so
far by the committee and announced
the ticket and1 advertising committees
as given below. He called on J. F.
Daubenspech, advance representative
of the Coit-Alber Chautauqua Co., who
explained in detail the work to be done
and commented on the entertainments
through the week of the Chautauqua
July 9 15. He aroused much Interest
and enthusiasm.
The Chautauqua committees are:
Advertising Committee
W. A. Seegmlller, chairman; J. C.
Shattrck, Geo. Ferris, A. E. Foster,
L. 11.' Christian, F. It. Woodard.
Ticket Committee
E. O. Dewey, chairman. Tho city
has beeu divided into districts and
member? of the committee assigned
as follows:
Dist. 1 All "down town" busi
ness places, offices, etc. O. L. Spra-
r
a
F&ES HOME BAKffM
AKIN ?WE)
Absolutely Puro
the Greatest bake-day help
No Alum No Phosphate
Eft
NORMAL COMMENCEMENT
Class of Nineteen Graduated Address
by Deputy Superintendent Mun
son Alumni Banquet.
The commencement exercises of the
Shiawassee County Normal were held
at the Central school Wednesday
evening, the Normal room being
gue, J. C. Calkins, Geo. ,M. Dewey, C. crowded to its capacity with friends,
D. Bell, James DeYoung.
Dist. 2 All residences within ter
ritory extending west from Washing
ton to Shiawassee street and to river
south of Oliver A. D. Whipple, Rev.
II. A. Walte, Dr. C. B. Porter.
Dist. 3 Bounded east by Wash
ington, south Oliver, west Adams,
north King O. L. Davis, Harry
Parker, W. A. Seegmlller.
Dist. 4 Bounded east by Wash
ington, south King, west Adams,
north city limits F. M. Crowe, W.
L. Frisbie, W. J. Melchers.
Dist. 5 Bounded east by Adams,
south Oliver, west Shiawassee, north
city limits M. L. Izor, M. W. Long
man. E. S. Wolaver.
relatives and others interested in this
highly Important and growing depart
ment of the Owosso schools. The Nor
mal was one of the first in Michigan,
which now has fifty-one county nor
mals. They take first rank in this line
ot work in the country. This county
j has been fortunate In the principals
selected to conduct the department and
is regarded as one of the best in the
state.
Dist. 6. Bounded east by Shla-
jwassee, south and west river, north
clty: limits L. B. Allison, J. M. Bent,
ley, Dr. G. B. Powell.
Dist., 7,--Bounded east and, north
by city limits, west Washington,
south King, L. F. Miner, E. F. Hay
ward, Rev. H. Cansfleld.
Dist. 8 Bounded east by Dewey, annnAaA .
wWB1u' eponded to a hearty encore,
King E. G. Osborn, Geo. E. Pardee,!
to the county normal graduates that a
ten dollar framed picture would be
given to the rural school which sent in
the best exhibits In June. The children
of the Baruum 8 Fr. (fractional) have
won this beautiful pastorial picture,
"Evening" (Lerelles') for their school.
We congratulate them and their
teacher, Miss Minnie K neater, upon
their good work.
We aim to make the exhibit an
annual affair, and hope the picture
incentfve may work its charm for many
a year to come. Our rural schools need
such decorations.
The Committee.
COMMENCEMENT WEEK.
Program of Owosso High School.
Baccalaureate Address Rev. J. Hart
ley Cansfield, First M. E. Church.
The program was opened by a finely Sunday, June 18, 1916, 8 p. m.
executed piano duet by Misses Ruth I SENiott class day. k '
Porter and Audrey Porterfield. Rev. I Central school. Tuesday, June 20,
H. A. Walte offered prayer. Athletic iyi0 2 P-
Instructor Johnson sang a solo, re
sponding to an encore, after which John
M. Munson, deputy superintendent of
public instruction, gave an excellent
address on "Character," which . was
thoroughly enjoyed and appreciated by
all present.
Music Rhodes Orchestra.
Invocation Rev. B. G. Mattson.
Salutatory Robert Burhans.
Class Poem Nellie Leatherman.
President's Address Edward Foess.
Class Prophecy Pauline Johnson.
Class History Written by Robert
Miss Walah, th? efficient and talented Burhans, read by Wellington Chapman.
principal of the Normal, sang and re- valedictory Lillian Fllckinger.
Class Song By class. Words by
Howard Slocum, county commis- Nellie Leatherman.
Dr. BS. Sutherland.
Dist. 9 Bounded east by city lim
its, south Exchange, west Oak, north
Oliver, west Dewey, north King C.
L. Pattee, ' John R. Hughes, M. G.
Jones.
Dist. 10 Bounded east by Oak,
sloner of schools, presented the diplomas commencement.
with a word of encouragement to the First Baptist church, Wednesday,
graduates and of advice to the Jnne 21, 8 p. m.
audience as to honoring and respecting ' Bhodes' Orchestra.
the qualities and work of the home 1 School Chorus Two selections.
girls as teachers in their schools. The ' Invocation Rev. J. Frank Green.
class song written by Miss Ruth Porter Commencement Address Hon. James
MOUNTED SCOUTS
north Oliver-G. P. Friegel. Dr. j interwtiwt program
Dist. 11 Bounded east by city
limits, south by river, west Washing
ton, north Exchange Dr. A. M.
Hume, W. J. Blood, C. R. Wolford.
Dist. 12 Bounded east by city
limits, south Grand Trunk R. R.
Following the exercises the alumni
of the Normal to the number of seventy
with some guests banquet ted and en
joyed an interesting program of toasts.
The forming of an alunfnl association
tracks, west Washington, north river principHlr John c Austin, the only
uwu. male graduate of the Normal, presided
L. Fulmer. , . , " . . . , ,
Dist. 13-Bounded east and south manner, introducing each
by city limits, west Division, north . 8Peake.r ,n a m08fc aPPrpriate way,
' pnmn inn mnsn n r ami vAnnntnA
was the idea of Miss Walsh.the retiring ,THIS COUNTY 'N
uimt with OTHERS
simply say that I desire to continue in south Exchange, west Washington, anj 8nnf, by tne cjM8 ciosed a most Schermerhorn.
continue in office as County Clerk of
Shiawassee county, and will be a can
didate on the Republican ticket at the
August primaries. I have tried to merit
the support of the citizens, which they
haye very kindly given me in the past,
and for which I am trnly thankful.
My time is yours while I remain
your officer, as I have no other line of
business, and if nominated and elected,
will try and give the citizens of the
county the same courteous and busi
ness treatment that I have endeavored
to do in the past.
Trnsting my many friends will rally
to my support in the nomination and
election, I remain,
Very trnly yours,
ALBERT L. NICHOLS.
Solo Harry G. Johnson.
Presentation of Diplomas W.
Whitehead.
Benediction Rev. H. A. Walte.
Patriotic Airs Orchestra.
D.
New Directory of the Rural D;$.
tricts Just Completed.
Shiawassee county is to hav a.
nrnn Ti.nV T XT T1i.nn.ln1 T7 TT
wiuuu &iuui J 11. UiailUCIi A' . Ilil " .....
Chapell, Geo. IT. Wright. Mi8 Clara Osborn welcomed all" the comP" directory of its rural dis-
Dist. 14 Bounded east by Divis- guests and paid a high tribute to the tricts- Tq Farm Journal has opened
ion, south city limits, west Washing- teaching profession. Superintendent omce8 Iq tfae Dimmick Block, Owos?o.
ton, north Grand Trunk -W. E. Hall W. W. Longman, spoke of "Founda- Mr H RIorria. their dls'rlct manager,
M. W. Southard, E. N. Thome. j tione," giving valued advice Howard ha8 charKe of the work here. The
.Dist. 15. Bounded east by Shla- Slocum discussed the rural teacher and repatatlon of the Farm Journal is well
wassee mer soutn wenange, west her work aDd made the etartIng for known In this locality.
Mich. Central R. R., north river A. 1
Will Bo Added to Owosso's Military
Organization.
fVinaa nnartulrimr If oaalat. H1lQr?H, TlIE TIMES hSS Seen A (Vtnv tit ttia
WDensmore, Ward D. Cobb, L. C.'p gaye intere8tIn(, revlew of directory issued Jfor another county,
Dist. 16-Bounded east by river,' the "ork of the present class and Miss "dri'n "f nterPr
south Clinton, west Mich. Central R.j Helen Storrer s Reminisences" were merits support. Mr. Morris has oper
n.. north EvrhantrP TTnrrv Smith, very clever and well delivered. Geo. aled ln lDKham and Eaton counties
Owosso is to have another military w John Detwiler. II. K. White. I M. Dewev stated the "ViewDoint of aD came here at the invitation of one
organization, attached to Company II. j Dist. 17 Bounded east by river,1 the Supervisor", complimenting the of 0Qf leading banks. lie comes well
Corporal John J. McDonald has been south by Grand Trunk R. It., west Normal on the results as shown in the recomnded from other counties,
authorized to enlist ten men for, Mich. Central R. R., north Clinton 1 excellent work of the graduates. Mr. I ,8 tne alm ' tbe Farm Journal
mounted scout duty and Owosso men 1 C. E. Rigley, Jr., J. N. Zimmerman Munson gave some general Impressions Pe0Ple to employ local men of good
are sought. The ten uen enlisted here . 1 Sturt.evant. ! criticisim? the backwardness of noma character and standingl in this corn-
will be part of a detail of 13 members' , Dl8 ""t..s,.de business sec- diBtrict9 alJ(t BhowIn the WOnderfnl mnt,lty- The expense ofJTeuch an
of the Thirty-third regiment to be de-:""7"; '"' Ur b advancement ln interest since the undertaking must be enormous, and we
n'iL, v -- J Normal work was started. Miss Susan feel that thelr obJ'9Ct employing
scouting. The other eight men will be ,nRton' south clty llmltg wc'gt ShIa. J. Walsh presented a large framed local men ,a to leave tpart of their
enlisted In Port Huron. .oacrtQ nnA a.' i. nicfnrA t Mi- Minni Kntr tnr th money with the good I folks of tLIs
This branch of the service is the most uialr. E. F. Wilson. P. V. Oadola. I best exhibit of school work and thanked coa,ity-
pleasant for young men who likf to ride j Dist. 20 Bounded east by Shla- all who had assisted in making the' ,The enWription price for the Farm
ana gives ample opportunity for a busy wassee, south city limits, west Mich, banquet a success. journal ror nve years.Jj the county
and helpful vacation in the beautiful Central, north Grand Trunk Paul
lake district of Northern Michigan. Siea, W. E. Payne. J. II. Britten.
The state will furnish all equipment. 1 Dist- 21 Bounded east by Michi
including horses, while the scouts are pan Central, south rmd west, city H
nn ,inf. x7v, .v, .1.-1. v mits, north Main J. II. Robbins. A.
hnm. BhH t w n rtriii ith n L- rsPr- F- w- Koyen.
The alumni held a business session a,recior ana map or this county Is to
and elected officers. j te 2 93
Irene Morton, Sylvia Brandahl, Ina'
home station they will drill with Com
pany II. The annual encampment will
be held in August.
Those who enlist must be between 18
and 3) years of age. Application for
enlistment papers may be made to Cor
poral McDonald.
Mrs. Selwyn Reed of Vernon, will
entertain Saturday iu honor of Miss
N. L. Boyce andE. D. Yonng, city
letter carriers, have each been granted
a vearly increase of $100 in their
salaries.
II. P. White, assistant postmaster, is
taking a part of his annual vacation
Byrnes. Gladys Burkhardt, El?a Clara:,
' 1.1 1 T- 1 TT 1 n 1.
Dist. 22--Bounded bv Main street -""ino vie, "zei wreen. uoiaie
on south, city limits west and north, ani HaZeI Miller, Louise Osmer, Ruth
river east C. C. Ward, Albert Todd, Porter, Waneta Thompson, Myrtle
D. H. Day. I Williams, Wilma Metzaier, Mary Ma-
Dist. 23. Corunn?. J. H. Collins, haney, Adelaide and Rosalind Hcok this week. He was in DetroU.Thursday.
S. Q. Pulver. I and Audrey Porterfield. on business.
Dist. 21 ShHwasee county All. i . . .. . ,
; xur oiavc vuuicuuun ut JalOS Will
pniZE pictures. be held at Jackaoa June 20, 21 and 22;
A rural .school exhibit was held in among those who will attend from the
A part of the fnrnltnre purchased the corridors of the Central school in local aerie are C. Whitehearee, J. Bang
nlcr.ers of guarantee end ell friends
of th chautauqua. !
Bnth Strauch of Vernon, whose mar-
it and take pride in honorable achievements. We must take up the serious , riage to Mr. Wood of Byron, will be recently for the armory hns arrived connection with the Shiawassee County hart, W. Frisbie, H. Sntfin, W. Harris, '
prouiems oi Transportations, oi iniersiaie nnu ioreign commerce in a sen- eolemnfzed Saturday, June 21. The ana nas oeen lnsranen in me DUliaing. murium ummeuituieui arm aiuiudi r rea nimour. xvoy uanguart, riti. JVlar
Kible and candid manner and provide an emlurinj: basis for prosperity by bride-elect formerly attended school In I ha' received very favorable comment Banquet. ' ' tin, Walter Schultz, Wm. Klbby, Ernest
(Continue! on page 4) - ' I thlf city. ' from those who have seen it. ,( ' r In January announcement was made and Roy Dalev and G. Techier. .
