iCIG
1 V II " "-. . A-, f k A
I' 3 .." ' , ' A ,
i !
S- .'
-
'.'..jifSx11'
t
i
NORWICH, CCKN.; THURSDAY, '-JANUARY 20, 1916.-' '
' "''PRICE TWO CL'HZ
vcl. . Lvnu-r;o. . n
POPULATION 28,219
TEN PAGES
Tfo Eullstin's Circuit!::, in llcrwich is Dcubla That cf Any Other Paper, end Its Total Circulation b Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to thp City's Population-
llUuiuir-ii -fill ii riLl liJLSj
. n f AI I'.ffA" R.ril''
Against the Austro-Hungarians cn ths Bessarabian
Frontier East cf Czcrnowitz
ATTACK HAD BEEN FORECASTED BY VIENNA
Muscovite Have Been Throwing Strong Reinforcements Into
' v East Galicia Russian OfBcial Communication De
s scribes Ottoman Forces Disorganized in the Caucasus
Montenegro Has Broken Off "Peace Negotiations With
Austria-Hungary Germans Report Capture of Trenches
Along the Yser River Austrian Repulsed by Italians in
the Tolano Sector. v
After only a alight pause since the
conclusion of the "New Tear's bat
tle" on the eastern front, the Rus
sians again have begun ' a strong of
fensive against the Austro-Hungart-ans
on the Bessarabian frontier east
of Cxernowiti. capital of Bukowlna.
Vienna had forecast that the second
phase of the battle in this region was
imminent by the announcement that
the Russians were throwing strong re
inforcements into East Galicia.
Vienna Reports Repulse of Russians.
. In the initial offensive of what
probably will be termed - the "second
battle" the - Russians launched with
numerous columns four attacks near
Toporuts . and Bayao, - but according
to Vienna they were everywhere re
pulsed. - ,
The Germans have attacked Russian
bases at Tarnopol, East Galicia, with
an air. squadron.
Conditions In the Caucasus.
' While ths Turkish war office -' as
serts that the Russians in the Cauca
sus have abandoned their- offensive
aJong the- entire front of nearly 100
niliea. owing to the reinforcement of
the Ottomans and their assumption of
a. violent offensive, the latest Rus
sian, communication describes the Tur
ish army in this region as having been
disorganized and dislodged v from a
strong position extending over sixty
alios, the Twrkish -retree-t ; taking ' ot:
, a panic-stricken flight. Several Turk-"
lsh units, 'the communication adds,
ware almost annihilated, hundreds of
bodies covering the field of battle. .
Montenegrins Break Peace Negotia-
' . tsons. .
. With the. announcement that Monte -
negro had broken off negotiations for
RAbrO CONNECTION WITH
" ' " ' FOREIGN POSSESSIONS.
Big Wireless. Stations-Are Nov Under
Construction.
. 'Washington; Jan. 14. One of the fi
nal ' Steps toward linking : the United
States and Its foreign possessions to
gether by a great chain of wireless
stations -was .taken today, when Secretary-Daniels
of the navy approved a
contract with the - Federal : - Telegraph
comaany of San Francisco for . the
equipment of the' big- radio otation
now -under construction 'at San Diego,
Califs Cavite, P. L, , and Pearl Har
bor, Hawaii. , Completion of these
stations within the next year will pave
the way for radio - communication
from Washington, not only to the in
sular possessions, - but . to almost any
point in the world, where there may, be
i a. receiving -.plant, i . i-
. Plans now are being prepared by the
navy department to increase the pow
er of the existing equipment at Tu
tu Jla, and Guam, so as to 'make them
a part of the main world chain.. The
Intermediate stations at; Boston, New
Orlean Point Loma, Chicago and
Guantanamo already -' have been
strengthened and' are -able to ; relay
messages from ships at sea' to Washington-
-via the Arlington tower.
. .The new - stations at Peart Harbor
and Cavite will be the most powerful
in the 'World. They will be equipped
' with apparatus for exchanging mes
. sages over an area of approximately
4,70n miles,' the greatest distance ever
attempted by radio plants doing a reg
ular business. !
ATLANTIC FLEET BETTER -
- THAN EVER BEFORE.
Admiral Fletcher's Report Made Pub
- ... 'Ho by the Senate.
'Washington, Jan. 19. Stripped of Us
military secrets, the annual report of
Admiral Fletcher, commander-inchief
- of the Atlantic fleet, was made public
today by. the senate. . It says that
on . June 30 last, the fleet was better
balanced and doing better shooting
than ever before in its history, but
lists fifteen specific recommendations
as to conditions which should be rem
edied, ranging from shortage of men
and 'lack of swifit scout cruisers and
aiP craft to elimination of the com
pulsory feature of the navy's educa
tional system.
.With the admiral's report was a
letter of transmission from Secretary
Daniels stating- that many of the con
ditions already referred to . had been
remedied and- that steps had been
taken to carry out other recommenda
tions. - The secretary also pointed or.
that Admiral -Fletcher said most of
the weaknesses were of long standing
and that he had omitted discussion cf
"the many satisfactory features of the
fleet," In the interest of brevity. .
WOMAN AND TWO MEN
'' '' IN HIGHWAY ROBBERY
Found Guilty in Superior Court at
Boston Got Away With $1,500
Cambridge, Mats., Jan. 19- Evelyn
Richardson, Charles Swirlise and
Samuel Marcurlal, all of Boston, were
found guilty of robbery of $1,600 from
James A. McKane of Lawrence, in the
superior court today. McKane was
eavlaid on the West Boston bridge the
nl t of Dec 2, and robbed of his
peace with Austria-Hungary comes
the official statement in a Paris news
paper that King Nicholas ... and his
family and suite already re on their
way to' Italy. : It is presumed that with
Uje severing of the peace- pour- parlers
the Austro-Hungarians again will take
up where they left off the campaign
of crushing the little kingdom as Ser
bia was crushed. ;sj? .-'
Although artillery " bombardments,
mining and counter-mining operations
and aerial. , attacks;' continue , almost
exclusively on the . western line s in
Pance, the Germans report the cap
ture of trenches along the Tser river.
Entente allied airmen have ' dropped
bombs on Metx and Aranville, doing
some material damage. . .
Italians Repulse Austrian
Several attempts of the Austrians
to approach Italian positions on the
Tolano sector and near Oalavia were
repulsed. Another war council of the
entente allies attended by the British
and French members, has been held
in London.. : Nothing is known con
cerning the council except that it was
held for the discussion of. plans for
further prosecuting the war.:
t Great . Britain r has informed v the
t'n'itod'. States- through Ambassador
Page that iimioeent" mail taken from
steamera by. the. British authorities-is
not being unnecessarily delayed but
forwarded to theaddressee immedU
ately. - Mail and parcel . post matter
which is not classed as "innocent"' is
being tujld for the prize court. .
The total casualties in the entire
German army for the war number 2,
535,768, according to an announcement
made -in the house of commons by the
parliamentary . under secretary for
war.'-- : . i -
ESCAPED GERMAN PRISONERS
CAPTURED ON: AMERICAN SOIL
Canadian Government - to ; Start Pro
ceedings for Their Return.
Calais, Maine, Jan. 19. A situation
of international interest developed to
day when four men alleged to be Ger
man prisoners' of war ,who -had es
caped from a detention camp at Am
herst, N. S., were captured ' on the
American side of . the Jjorder.. . They
had crossed the ice on the St Croix
river, two miles above this city from
the New Brunswick shore. : Three of
the - men ' had fled ' to- Ayer Junction:
where they "were about to board a
westbound train, when H. C Gillls,
a United States immigration inspector.
arrested1 them. X Another was caught
here. ---'' ....
Agents of the Canadian government
In this city said that formal proceed
ings would be started at once throueh
the administration at Ottawa and the
British ambassador at Washington
seeking the return of the alleged fu
gitives to vanaaian sou. The lmml
gration department, however, it is un
derstood, will first pass upon . the
status of the men as applicants for
admission to the country. A special
board "of , inquiry is expected to be
ordered soon.
The escape from the camo at- Am
herst was effected by tunnelling- for
150 feet under the walls to a point
beyond the sentry lines. It was said
at the camp -that the subway was a
remarkable piece of engineering work,
involving much later.
Camp officials said that Hart wig, one
of the men under detention here, was
the leader of the fugitives, and had
previously escaped, only to be recap
tured at St. John, N. B.. as ihe; was
about to ship on a schooner for the
united states v
ANNUAL PENSION OF
-f $1,000 FOR PRdFESSORS.
Advocated in . Colleges Supervised by
.: the " Methodist - Episcopal Church.
. Chicago, Jan. 19. Professors in col
leges supervised by . ; the .Methodist
Episcopal church may be paid an an
n-ual pension of $1,000 on retiring at
tne age or eg and be insured for $10,
000 up to that age under a Plan ad'
rocated today by President Plants .of
Lawrence college a; a mettlng here
of the educational asosdatkm-of the
Methodist Episcopal church. . Dr:
Plants suggested a contribution of
$100 a year from each professor and
$60 - from the - board of education for
each year for each professor to make
the basis of a pension fnu4.
VILLA 18 FORMALLY,
- PROCLAIMED AN OUTLAW.
His Execution is Authorized by Any
Citizen of Mexico.
Washington, Jan. 19. General Car
ranza telegraphed the Mexican embas
sy here today that he had formally
proclaimed Francisco Villa an outlaw
and authorized his execution iy any
citizen of the republic who might en
counter him,
; French Steamer Sunk. .
London, Jan. 19, 5 p. mv The French
steamer Leoville, of 775 tons, has been
sunk. The captain and 14 survivors
have been landed. Two men are miss-
Cabled Paragraphs
Swimming Champion te Beeom a
Military Aviator. " . .
Montreal, Jan. 19. George Hodgson.
Olympic swimming champion, - left
Montreal today to take up a commis
sion in the royal British flying corps
for which he has trained. , ,.
. English Cotton Mills Burnsd.
ILondon, Jait 20, 12.30 a.' m. The
EUenroad mills at Rochdale, the larg
est cotton spinning mills in Lanca
shire, have toeen partly destroyed by
fire, caused by an- overheated bearinjr.
The damage is estimated at 100,000.
GERMANY'S PrVOPOSAL IN
LUSITANIA CASE REJECTED.
Because . of Omission - of . Acknowleda
ment of Wrong Doing of Submarine
; Commander. : , ' "
Washington.' . Jan. ; 19. Germany's
proposal to incorporate in the settle
ment of - the Lusitania case a reserva
tion of any admission of wrong doing
by her submarine commander is un
derstood to have been, rejected by the
United States. ' A new proposal from
thn Berlin government is - - expected
momentarily, 'however, and- the con
troversy may-possibly be closed oy
elimination of all merits "or demerits
of the actual torpedoing of the vessel,
Germany agreeing to pay an indemni
ty for the American lives lost,5 reiter
ating expressions of regret and calling
attention directly ' or. by inference to
the contention that she already nas
given the most effective disavowal: by
making assurances' for the future.
If in the new proposition ' there
should be another such reservation or
any attempt do justify the sinking of
the Lusitania on tne ground xnai me
act constituted a reprisal in retaliation
for the British blockade of Germany,
that, also probably will be rejected.
There were indications tonight, how
ever, that Germany believes that the
United. States might, , under .T certain
circumstances, accept a proposal
omitting? mention -of ,.9ie legality or
illegality of the act. ..' une oi a some
what similar nature resulted in an
agreement over the sinking of the
steamship . Arabic. . . i ; ; -s t
B. & A. HAS MODIFIED
. ITS FREIGHT EMBARGO.
List of Classes of Freight Which Will
Be Acceptable.
Botnn. Jan.." 19. -The Boston -and
Aim any railroad today issued notice of
modification of its rreignt emDargo an
nounced Jan. 5th. v " - - -
The following classes of freight will
now be acceD table, says the--notice;
Less than carload freight from all
noints to Boston and Albany points
only; carload freight from all points
on the New Xork Central nnes to
Boston'and Albany points, except coal
for re-consignment; bituminous coal
from all ioints on the New oYrk Cen
tral, lines to .'Boston and Albany points
only, exeept 'coal tor re-consignment.-
The embargo is sun in eneei on an
traflle to Boston' and Maine and New
Tork, New Haven and Hartford points
Via the Boston and - Albany, except
livestock, perishable freight and food
stuffs for human consumption. . ,
WAR ORDERS FOR BOOT
AND SHOE MANUFACTURERS
Have Proved Source of Considerable
Profits in Nevr England.
Boson. Jan. 19. War orders have
nroven sources of considerable profits
to New England boot and shoe man
ufacturers: Secretary Thomas . And
erson said in his report at the annual
meeting of the New . England Shoe
and Leather Association today. The
field for sales by manufacturers in tms
section, he said.- had widened notice
ably, inquiries having been received
by the association from Russia, China
and Australia among other countries.
Many of , the shoe and leather firms
have been greatly inconvenienced by
the embargo on the exportation oi
logwood . from Jamaica, and on Great
Britain s partial embargo on - bides
and skins, - the secretary reported.
MORE MEXICAN BANDITS
ARE TO BE EXECUTED
Some Who- Are Said -to Have Taken
Part in Santa Yasabel Massacre.
Chihuahua City, - Mexico, Jan. ' 19.
Among Mexican bandits who looted
Magistral, a mining camp in Durango,
several days ago and wno were cap
tured by Carranza troops under Gen
era! Cavazos yesterday at Guerrero are
among some of the men who took, part
in the slaughter of 18 foreigners at
Santa Ysabel on January- 10, it was
said 'here tonight. The prisoners are
being brought here to be executed and
their' bodies displayed with those of
Jose Rodriguez and Miguel Baca-Val-
les, who were shot at Juarez.
. Carranza authorities here reported
today that all of Villa's hidden stores
of ammunition now have been captur
ed, including. 600 cases of dynamite. -
ABUNDANT YIELD OF.
-. GRAIN CROPS IN CANADA
Due to Special Effort as a Result of
the European War v
Ottawa. Ont Jan. 19. The principal
grain crops of Canada during 1916
snowed the most abundant yield in
the history o fthe Dominion, accord
ing to an announcement of the census
and statistics office here today. The
increased yield of wheat - an .oats, it
was said, was due to expansion of the
acreage by special effort as a result of
tho European war as well as an ex
ceptionally favorable season. . -i . :
The total .value of field crops in
ii6 amounted to approximately sgoo.
000,000, comprising grain, $568,161,900:
potatoes adn" sugar beets $36,739,600
and loader crops iaz,7ts,luo. .
EXCITEMENT CAUSED BY 'X
FIRE IN PROVIDENCE
Butler Exchange ' Building Elevator
Were Run Through Flame
Providence, R. I,'. Jan. 19. The
Butler exchange building in the bus
iness section of the city, was the scene
of a fire today, which caused some ex
citment among its occupants. - The
pupils of the Rhode Island Commercial
school. Including a number of young
women, together with other office em
ployes fled in safety by way of the el
evators which . were run by t,he op
erators through the flames. -
Starting on the sixth floor the flre
spread there, and later extended to the
fifth floor, .where Jt was- - controlled.
The damage was estimated at S10.000.
The cause of the blaze was not known.
Goloradb River is
Tugging at Levees
HUMAN LIVES AND PROPERTY
ARE ENDANGERED
OVERLAND TRAINS HELD
Men Are Toiling Desperately Banking
' Up the Levee High Water at
Yuma at Midnight Was Estimated
. at 26 Feet. ; v j- '
Los Angeles, Calif- Jan. 19 Wheth
er the great levees which .hold the
Colorado river back from the Imperial
valley will hold until morning was a
question upon -which hinged tonight
the possible fate of human lives and
millions of dollars worth of property.
Heavy Rains Moving Eaitword.
Heavy rains, moving eastword, - left
most- of Southern California recovering
from, floods which claimed -four rivers
and caused damage estimated at $2,
000.000. ' Rains, augmented - - streams
across the line in Arizona, raised the
Colorado foot by foot and tonight the
river was tugging at its levees with
more water than expected. High wa
ter at - Yuma, on the border was ex
pected at midnight and was estimat
ed at 26 feet. The town wHl not be
in danger unless the stream goes nine
feet higher.
. Ten Overland iTratn Blocked. -
Ten overland trains ' were blocked
there and the passengers were, report
ed comfortable, while to the south men
tolled desperately - banking up the
leeves. . - i ;.;.-..-
- San Riego Isolated.
San Diego -was isolated except for
wireless communication. Grounds of
the George Junior Republic at Chlno,
Calif., were reported under water, but
the - eighty boys there were considered
safe: - .. '-.-.- .
The-private car of -Nathan Straus,
with Mrs. Straus and his party aboard,
is stalled at Indio, Calif.
A VOTE QN PHILIPPINE
BILL EXPECTED TODAY,
Clark Amendment Sharply . Debated
.' in 'Senate Yesterday..
Washington, Jan.' .19. The Clarke
amendment whloh would embody - in
the Philippine self-government exten
sion bill a provision for absolute in
dependence' after two ' years was
sharply debated in -the senate.- today.
with criticism centering Chiefly about
tne i proposal,, that une united . mates
negotiate for a n . 3n.jern- ' tonal a "-
inent-guaranteeing i-iuiippme &iv
ereignty after- the two year period.--, A
vote on the amendment is expected to
morrow. - Chairman Hitchcock of the
Philippine committee in charge of the
bllL - led - the attacks on tne amend
ment, ' challenging statements , of . its
supporters that the islands . constitut
ed a menace to American interests and
urging particularly that Japan was not
opposed to a continuance of American
occupation.' Senator Clarke, author
of the amendment, and Senator Har
wick, another democrat, declared the
independence proposal was sound from
a moral, commercial;, and - military
standpoint.
Senator Works, : republican, said he
would voto for the amendment as a
matter -of principle, though he was- op
pesed to entering upon an internation
al agreement that probably would be
broken by some other nation in time
of war. '. : -.- 't: . -' -.'
Senator Colt -Insisted that the pres
ent time was inoportune for ap
preaching the European, powers with
proposals for such an agreement and
Senator Norris introduced a substi
tute amendment which, would provide
that negotiations for independence
under, an international guarantee be
begun after two year.
PRESIDENT WORKING OUT .
ITINERARY OF TOUR.
Of Speaking Trip Uurging Plan For
, National Defense. - .. .
Washington. Janl 19. President. Wll
son's plans for going before the coun
try on the national defense Issue took
definite- shape today and the work of
mapping- out tb ininerary of hts first
speaking trip -was almost completed.
It also .was decided that public bus
iness permits other tours will be -made
in- as quick succession as possible.
A revised outline of the first trip
calls for visits to eight or nine mid
dle western cities, Including Cincin
nati, Cleveland, Toledo, ' Chicago and
Des Moines. The president proba
bly will start west immediately after
his visit to New York January 27 to
deliver addresses before the Railroad
Business assocation and the Motion
Picture Board of Trade. He probably
will remain- away from Washington
about a week.
; Messages inviting Mr. Wilson to dif
ferent part o fthe country came in
large number tb . the White House
during the day. ; : -. - i1
GOVERNMENT CONCILIATORS '
- AT WORK IN MERIDEN
They Are Uneommuntcative About the
. , . Strike Situation. - - f
Merlden. Conn., Jan." -19. Govern
ment Conciliators Clif ton J. Reeve
and James A. Smyth are in this city
conferring on the strike of the former
employes of the International Silver
company. Tney were called here soon
after the walkout Oct. 4, and remained
a short time, but their efforts towards
conciliation were unsuccessful. - Mr.
Smyth has been-working for a settle
ment of the strikes at the Boston ter
minal and Mr. Reeves has been in Ohio
adjusting- the strike differences in 34
machine snops. They are uncommuni
catlve -regarding the local strike situa
tion. -. ;
OKLAHOMA SOCIALIST ' 1 '.
- TAKES HIS OWN LIFE
Left Note Saying "Madness Was
Lurking Around the Corner.'
Oklahoma City, Okla., Jan. 19. rWlth
a pullet through his temple, J. O. Wel-
day, state chairman - of the . socialist
party, was found dead today in his
room at a local hotel. He was to have
been married today to Miss - Olive
Todd, of this city.
. A note found in the room said:
"I have not slept for weeks Mad
ness .was lurking around the corner.'
from Hydrogen Gas
COMMANDER OF SUBMARINE ,E-2
HAD ASKED FOR DETECTOR.
REQUEST NOT FILLED
Edison Representative . Claims - Ex
plosion . Could Not Have Occurred
Had the Ventilating System Been in
Full Operation.
New York, Jan. 19. Danger from
hydrogen . gas on- the submarine E-2
was recognized by the commander
soon after the Edison batteries were
installed last September and -a re
quest for a hydrogen detector was not
filled by the navy department. Lieu
tenant Charles M. Cook, the com
mander, testified when he - resumed
the witness stand "today before- the
naval court of inquiry investigating
the recent fatal explosion on the craft.
Lieutenant Cooke also said he recom
mended . that each of the 400 cells in
the two batteries be 'equipped so that
the condition of each cell might be
detected independently of the others,
but the bureau of engineering of the
navy department would not permit
this to be done.
Conditions the Day of Explosion.
It has prevlouely. been brought -out
in the testimony of Raymond Otto,
an electrician of the' second class, that
some of the cells were reversed on the
day of the explosion. - During thapro
cess of discharging, it was later ex
plained, the reversed cells , would be
recharging and this would cause an
excessive amount of -nydrogen gas to
form. Otto gave his testimony while
propped up in bed at the naval hospt-
tai suffering from nurns and other in
juries received in. the explosion. . .
r - v All the Fans Were Running. '
Changes were made in the ventilat
ing systems In the battery compart
ments at his suggestion. Lieutenant
Cooke said . and . all the fans were
running during the discharge that was
in progress at the time of the explo
sion. The printed . instructions sup
plied by the Edison storage . battery
company, which installed the batter
ies- on the E-2.. did -not contain any
reierence to tne rormation of hydro
gen-gas while the batteries were being
charged and discharged,, the . witness
aaid. . - .. . - - -
The commander testified that there
was no ' open ' light burlning " In the
submarine at-the' time of the.: explo
sion "but admitted that a spark could
have been struck if. a tool came into
coistart ., with any -iwo of - the bat
tery terminals, - lie also said he had
no complaint of carelessness! to make
against any member of his .crew or
against. the civilian workers on the E-
' ' -. Blame Ventilation System. ' ;
" Miller Reese Hutchinson, " represent
ing the Edison Storage -Battery com
pany at v the inquiry issued a state
ment today in which he expressed the
opinion that the E-2 was filled -with
hydrogen gas at the time of the ex
plosion. This would not have hap-
pened, he said.' if 4he ventilating sys
tem had neen in full operation.
Bulkhead Blown Toward Battery.
t;Tt is a- curious thing that the bulk
head between the engine room and
the after battery compartment, which
was twenty feet from the " battery
proper, was blown toward the bat
tery,'' Mr. Hutchinson said. "There
were plumbers working in the engine
room, where two men were killed. This
indicates to me that the explosion oc
curred there. I have an affidavit
that a plumber, a few day before the
explosion, was using a gasoline torch
in the E-2. - t -
- "The batteries were no ., more . to
blame than a boiler that blows ' up
when the water is too low.",
To Be Questioned by Edison Men.
Captain William H. G. Bullard. ores
ldent of the court of inquiry, today
announced that representatives of the
Edison company would be : permitted
to interrogate the witnesses.
The court will take depositions ' of
Injured men at the Cumberland Street
hospital tomorrow, after which it will
meet in -the general: court . martial
chambers at the navy yard.
. In direct contradiction to Lieuten
ant Cooke's testimony, Mr. Hutchin
son said in his ' statement that only
one fan was in operation at the time
of the explosion, -which was still run
ning when he Inspected the submarine
the day after the explosion.
6HOT HERSELF UPON RETURN
l , FROM HUSBAND'S FUNERAL.
Mr,. Winona Glasgow Left Letter Say
ing She Could Not ' Live Without
-Her Husband. "...-.'-.'
Washington. Jan. '' 19. When Mns.
Winona Glasgow returned to her rooms
in an apartment here tonight from the
funeral of her husband. General Sam
uel Glasgow, she shot herself through
the heart with a revolver and -died in
stantly. - General Glasgow, who died
Sunday at the age of 76 years, was a
colonel .of the Twenty-third . Iowa In
fantry during the Civil war and was
breveted by General Grant for fcravery
at Vlcksburg. Hie wife was 45 years
old. ' ... :. '---. -
: Before ending her life, "Mns. Glasgow
locked Herself in her bedroom and
wrote a long letter to her brother and
sister, who were In the next room,
saving she could not live without her
husband. She asked that she be buried
In Arlington cemetery, beside the gen
eral. ; '-: V i y s
" After the war, -President Grant ap
pointed General Glasgow ' consul at
Havre, France. "From there the gen
eral was transferred tb the consulate
at . Glasgow. Scotland., where he re
mained about twelve years. ...
HEARINGS ON MOTION -
, PICTURE CENSORSHIP BILL
Closed Last Night With Protest by
. Martin W. Littleton. , ,
Washington, Jan. . 19. Hearings on
the Hughes-Smith motion picture cen
sorshin bill closed tonight with an ad
dress against it by Martin W.' Little
ton of New York. He maintained that
no five censors,: the number proposed
by the measure, should e permitted to
decide for- 100,000,0fl0 ' persons what
constituted-' immoral pictures." The
committee' will not vote on the meas
ure until after friends and opponents
of It have- filed briefs a-weeic hence.
Condensed Telegrams
Canada ia in the aria of thai eoldest
weather ever known there. ....
The first snow of the season" fell
throughout northern Alabama..
The Adirondack - Hotel ' at North
Creek, N. Y,- was .destroyed by flre. '
John. Redmond, leader of the Irish
Nationalists, denied reports that he in.
tends, to resign..
The- steamship Tuscania arrived at
New York 1 from Liverpool . bringing
$1,600,000 In gold. . ... 1X i
Owing to the increased cost of beer
many .cafes Jin Vienna . have ' Deen
destroyed by rioters. t .
Prolonged cheering greeted the an
nouncement of Montenegro's aurren Jer
in the German Reichstag. .
The bill authorizing a $27,600,000
barge canal bond issue was passed by
the New .York State Assembly. v
Fire' deatrovad two woodan bufilnean
Duuaings in tne centre of Caribou, Me.,
causing a loss estimated at $25,000.
The battleship .- Georgia ha bacn
awarded the Knox . naval -trophy for
Demg nrst m battle efficiency in 1915.
Miss" Mabel Warden and her sister
Florella, were burned to -death when
firn, destroyed their home at Punsu-
tawney, Pa. --v.---,. ,
The Russian government of Dvinsk.
which was removed when the German
advance menaced the city has been
ordered to return. -. -
Th fire that has raaed in Beraan.
Norway, for several divs is nearly all
extinguished, after causing - damage
estimated at $30,000,000. , - - ?
The reciprocity sareement between
the United States and Brazil has ben
extended by he Brazilian government
to include the year 1916.
Associate Justioe Day of the Su
preme Court, confined to hie home in
Washington by the grip,, is reported to
be in a serious condition.
Clay modelina 'as a cure for insanity
has succeeded golf at the State Hos
pital for the Insane at Elgin, I1L, as
golf is Impossible in winter. . -.
Effective " immediately, an increase
of 6 to 12 per cent, in wages has been
granted the 600 employes of the Bess
Manufacturing Co. of Toledo.
'Fire destroyed the ; administration
building of Gabriel's Sanatarium, Sar
anac Lake, N. Y forcing 25 PArsons
to flee for safety in zero .'weather .
The -Swedish steamship Kepler ; has
been, abandoned in a . sinking condi
tion, according, to .reports received at'
Coppnhagen, , The crew was. saved.-
Two hondrtd men are --benefited by
an order increasing the pay oC-elee-tricians
. employed at - - the - Brooklyn
Nayy Yard from, $4.64 to 4.80 a d-jy.
'Reports that relations between Ar
gentine have become strained because
of a border dispute -were -''denied by
representatives- of. hoth government.
The Panama Canal will be a pen to
all classes of ships on Feb. 6; accord
ing to Col. E. F. Glenn, IT. S. A., on
his arival at New York from the ca
nal zone. , - - - .
. . I' ! . .- .
Th first passenger --train ; leaving
Berlin for Constantinople . arrived at
the Turkish capital safely, establish
ing direct communication between, the
two capitals. . ..
Harry K. Thaw is at Albany, where
he will ask -the State Legislature tor
the $350,000 he spent in his long fight
for release from the Matteawan in
sane Asylum, -
Ten thousand of Toronto's oversea
forces' were reviewed at Toronto by
the Duke of Connaught, the Governor
General. The - new American Legjon
received an ovation.- . j. . , ".'.'..
Mrs. Emmeline Pankhurst, , British
militant suffragette leader. - detained
by New York immigration authorities,
wa ordered admitted to the United
States unconditionally. -. - - - ; -:
Joseph A. Pease, former member of
the British Cabinet,, has been appoint
ed Postmaster-General of Great . Brit
ain, succeeding Herbert Samuels, who
is now Home Secretary.- .
! .Max- Reiaaner, a German, was sen
tenced at Paris to serve five year in
prison and -pay a fine -of .6,000 francs
for posing as an American and living
in Paris under, a false name. .
Fiv "' year old r Frank Verdski was
perhaps fatally scalded at the home of
hi parents- in Unlonville .Wednesday,
when he. was pushed Into a tub of boil
ing water by his sister Mary. '
The : New " York State Assembly
adopted resoltions t calling-, on ' Gov.
Whitman to designate Jan. 27, as a
day for special contribution to aid
Jewish war sufferer in.Europe. - v .
PHILADELPHIA GARMENT V .
WORKERS' STRIKE SETTLED
Granted All Their - Demands by the
. v . Board of Arbitration.' -
' Philadelptiia, Jan. 19. The strike:of
garment worker which began .last
Monday - was - settled today; the 6,000
strikers being, granted - all tnetr - de
mands by the board of. arbitration,
headed by Mayor Smith, except that
the price committees,, to regulate the
wages or piece woraers wui De com
posed alike of union nnd non-union
workers. The striker contended that
these committee should be composed
exclusively-- of. union - .workers. Of
ficials of - the - International Ladies'
Garment Worker' union, however.
agreed ' to accept the term made by
the board of arbitration and it wa an
nounced that most, of the strikers
would return to work tomorrow.
Concession made by the manufactur
ers were; a fifty hour week- with - a
maximum of four hours overtime, to
be distributed over the first four days
of the week, five holiday in the year,
the creation of a wage board to con
sider ways of standardizing wages.
appointment of price committees in all
shops and better sanitatary working
conditions. r
- Rifle Tm Mkos Prfct Seer.
' East Lansing, Mich.,' Jan.. 19. The
Michigan Agricultural rifle team today
made a -perfect score of 1,000 points
in Its match against the United States
Naval academy. This performance is
said to set a new record in contests
under 'the auspice of - the National
Rifle association of America. -
U r 3 FO LP 1 N G Ti 1 A L
Testimony of George 17.
Chauffeur, Chief Witness for the Prosecution
TOLD OF, VISITING: MRS.
When They Got Outside Drown Showed a $20 BUI WWz.i
He Said - Mrs. Mohr Had Given Him to Purchase a
Motorcycle Witness Told of Offer Made for Him to
Hold Up the Car on the Way to Newport Some Nijhi
Was About to Narrate a Conversation .Which He Sail
U V He and Brown Had With Mrs. Mohr When 'Court Ad
'.; J journed George l E. Rooks, Brother-in-law of Miss
' rBurgeilold I of Written and Verbal Threats Which Ac
;. cused Woman is Alleged to Have Made Against Miss
:V Burger - . ,..', ; -. ..
Providence, R.' L Jan. 19. George
W. Healis, the young negro chauffeur,
who . has .turned state's evidence
against Mrs. Elizabeth F, Mohr and
the two negroes on trial for the mur
der of Dr. C. Franklin Mohr, was call
ed today as the chief -witness, for the
prosecution. He began by testifying
regarding the -circumstances leading
up to the-alleged plot by Mrs. Mohr
and the negroes to- slay the physician.
The witness had Just reached- the point
In his story when he was to narrate
a conversation which he said he and
Cecil Victor Brown, one of the negro
aerengants, had with rlis. Mohr on
the night. of Friday..: August 27, 1915,
tne aate or tne alleged hatching of
the plot, when court adjourned for the
day. ' .-
: Why Brown Was Discharged. ;
The chauffeur, testified that Brown
and Henry H. Spellman. the other
negro defendant, -"worked for the doc
tor in -the stables and -that Brown
was discharged August 21," 1915, be
cause he was suspected of commu
nication with Mrs. Mohr. ';' " ' ' ,
Was Going to Get Even with Doctor.
- ."Before ' Brown was discharged,"
Heall said, ? "he told me on August
14 he had come from Boston and was
on,, his -.way, to Newport.: He said he
was going to get even with the doc
tor. He said "he had a vial of poison
In his pocket which Mrs.-iMohr- had
given him to put a few drops Hn the
doctor's cofSee, He told me he was
afraid,-though, "because his . wife was
a cook in -the doctor's house and he
was - afraid - she' would get Into trou
ble. He opened, his coat and-showed
me a revolver and said he was going
to shoot the. doctor. I thought he -was
joking." - i. - -- ' ! -'v-'-'
Went, to See Mr.. Mohr.--After
Brown was discharged he and
Healis went to see Mrs. Mohr. the
witness said. . f'Mrs.. Mohr told Brown
that now would be a good time to get
even," - Healis - continued, "after she
heard that Brown was discharged."- -Mrs.,
Mohr prepared - supper for
crown mat night, said Healis," and
then Brown and Mrs. Mohr went Into
another room for two or three min
utes. : '- -
Brown 8howed $20 Bill.
"When we got outside," went on the
COAST LINE OF UNITED - 4
STATE8 OPEN TO ATTACK.
Major General Leonard Wood Telia th
'Senate Military Committee.
' Washington, Jan. 19. Major General
Leonard Wood .told the senate mili
tary committee today the coast line of
the United -States was-open tf attack
by any well organized foreign army,
despite Its squipment of forts, mines
and submarines, and that the oceans
formed no serious Carrier - to invasion.
He declared that in the country pres.
ent state of utter unpreparedness for
war, a trained force of 160,000 men
could inflict . incalculable damage be
fore an . army could be assembled to
meet it. - ... ' : ' . --
Events of the European war clearly
demonstrated, the general said, that
the sea 'was the. best medium for the
movement : of troops, and he pointed
out that a-force of 126,000 men, fully
equipped, had been landed, at Gallipoli
from a single expedition of 99 ships
against submarines, mines and an un
derwater screen- of barbed wire that
fringed every available landing place.
' ; Emphasizing his conviction : that
troops, cannot . be improvised to meet
regulars, General Wood declared, the
fundamental basis . of any policy of
adequtae national defense must be the
principle -that .with suffrage goes an
obligation ' for military service. Such
a policy had been advocated by George
Washington, he said, and if it had been
adopted Canada . would have become
part of the United . States in the war
or lsi j... . - - - - -
."Only once in " our history have we
been - prepared for war," he ' added.
"That was .immediately .after .the Civil
war, .when we -had a million and a
half trained soldier." ,' : .
i , ... 11 1 - .
TWO, MEN KILLED IN ; v : V
f x LABOK . FIGHT. AT, CH iC AGO
During Clash' . Between - Striker and
. - Strikebreakers. '.;
: Chicago, Jan. 19. Two "men ' were
killed and 4 dosen others injured in a
fight today 'between" . employes and
striking workmen of the Edward Valve
Manufacturing company at East Chi
cago, In. The- dead are 'George Bain,
an employe of the company, and an
unidentified man, said to have been a
strikebreaker, r - ...
' The trouble started when the com
pany brought a party of ten alleged
strikebreakers to the city today and
ent several or it employes in auto
mobiles tp the railway station to meet
them. , .
- A .crowd of former employes, 'who
have been .on . a , strike , for -several
weeks, gathered about the automobiles.
houting derisively- at the alleged
strikebreakers. , A "moment later a re
volver ehot was fired and a battle fol
lowed. A number of shots were fired
and many strikers, it is said, were hit
with clubs. . Among those injured was
a policeman.. -; .... -
The strike was brought about when
a shorter day was demanded by the
employes.
LE G E D T.7 G I ! :i . : .
Healis, the Ycung U c
LIOHR WITH BnOV;::
"" .' ' - . . v f.: ' -
witness,' ."Brown showed me a $20
bill. .He told me Mrs. Mohr gave it
to him for the motorcycle. He said
'And if you stop the car On the way
to Newport some night there'll be a
whole lot more money. All you've got
to do is to - stop the car. You can
say It was a case of holdup. j
"On Friday might, August 25, 1915,
Brown came to my room." Healis said,
"and told me to come with him to see
Mrs.. Mohr." , . ....
According to . the alleged confer.
sions of Brown and Spellman, already
In evidence, the murder was originally
piannea ior August Z8, but it did not
occur because Healis refused to stop
the car that - night, owing to the fact "
that Miss Florence Ormsby,. the doc
tors omce girl, and Miss Martha Wil
son, his housekeeper, were in the ma
chine. The shooting occurred on the
nignt or August 31.
i Asked to Keep Mrs. Mohr Posted.
Two letters which Healis said he
had received from Mrs. Mohr while
she was visiting Dr. Mohr"s relatives
In McEwensville, Pa, were introduced
in evidence. These, missives, which
began with the -. salutation - "Dear
George," . and concluded with . "Re
spectfully jE. F. M" asked Healis to
keep his eye on the doctor and Miss
Burger-and' two other; women and to
keep , the writer posted
i? Alleged. Threats by Mrs. Mohr.
-. A. ".previous witness, ' '. George - W.
Rooks, brother-in-law of - Mies' Bur
ger,, told the- jury of written and ver
bal threats which Mrs. Mohr is al
leged to have made against, the" life
of Miss Burger and of Mrs. Mohr's
"bitter feeling, against the doctor." - -Office
Girl Warned. . " -i.
Miss Ormsby the. office girl, testi
fied that. Mrs. Mohr warned her to
stop riding with the doctor or "take
the 'consequences" She asserted that
Mrs. Mohr threatened to throw vitriol
in Miss Burger's eyes.".
Mrs. Mohr Retains - Composure.
' Through all the ordeal Mrs. Mohr
retained -her composure. , She ' gazed
earnestly at each witness and mani
fested a. keen interest in every ques
tion and answer. ' -
Healis will resume the stand tomorrow...-.
.
POVERTY IS THE PRINCIPAL
CAUSE OF IMMORALITY
According to Report of, Illinois Senate
; - White Slave' Committee.
Springfield, I1L, Jan. 19. 'Poverty ia
the principal cause of immorality, a
minimum wage for girls and women
should be $3 a week,- and unregulated
conditions .of domestic employment
render the home, in ma.nv - ranpR a
breeding place of commercialized vice,
according to the Illinois senate white
slave committee investigation report,
made public tonight, . - v
Thousands of girls, it says, are
driven into prostitution "because of the
sheer inability to keep body and soul
together on the low wages they re
ceive." The system ' of domestic em
ployment in America is condemned in
positive terms. . "Unregulated condi
tions of domestic employes,, uncertain
hours, absence of definite social status
and lack of creative opportunities ren
der the home in many cases for the
women servants a breeding place of
Immorality," says the report.
- InVMtfr.tlnna rifiw.lnMtri that YTt nrm
women of the underwold fell into dis
honor from domestic employment than
from any other work. Of 181 girls sent
to the state training echool at Geneva,
111," who had worked for a wage prior
to commitment, the committee found
that ' 115 or 63.65 per cent, had been
engaged in domestic service,
i Eight dollars a week la fixed by the
committee . as the least amount that
will meet the necessary items - of a
bare living for a girl employed in a
large city. -: .' I : r '" . , ;v
BITTER DEBATE BY
1 ' UNITED MINE WORKERS
Over Proposition to Have Investigation
of Financial Affair, - - " "
1 Indianapolis, Ind Jan. 19. A bitter
debate in which personalities figured
to a large extent was precipitated in
the convention . of the United Mine
Worker today over a proposition to
have a committee appointed to investi
gate alleged extravagance in the finan
cial affairs of the organization. Charges
weer made that there was a waste of
money and that some of the men un
der salary in the union padded expense
accounts and were Inefficient: and
counter-charges were hurled back that
the instigators of the proposed Inves
tigation had only ulterior motives In
view and were actuated in asking for
a scrutiny of the financial affairs cf
the mine workers in order to brir-?
discredit o the organization and its
leaders. . The discussion be ran early
tn the day and was still in full swir.sr
when the convention was adjourned
until tomorrow. -
The battle of words revolved about
President John P. White, who declare !
that the proposed investigation was a
mere excuse of insiduous foes of un
ionism" to attack the administrate -n.
In the forefront of the P.zht on tr
other side were Adolph trrner sui
Duncan McDonald, both or X-Unole,
