BAILS
( ' 8onoma, Jan. 24. .
7t tan Francises:
Wlttelmtns, Jan. 2.
rrO?
7rai Vancouver:
Ktartrs. Jan. 2f.
VtneaMnr:
Uakura. Feb. .
Evening Bulletin. Eat. 1882. No. 6376
Hawaiian Star. Vol. XXIII. No. 7417
12 PAGE HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, THURSDAY, JANUARY 1916. -12 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTO
: 2:28
EM
BEAD,
m MAUI STOm
: A
GREECE OPPRESSED
BY HUES, CLAIMS
D COIlSTAOTItlE
f. onarch Requests Associated
Press to Vofce Nation's
-: Grievance to the World
"UNITED STATES ONLY
. PUSLIC FORUM LEFT"
Declares Occupation of Greek
Territory an Unbearabfe En
croachment on Sovereignty
(AmmUUI Tvm ay TUutl WlrlMt)
ATHENS, Greece, Jan. 2L
King Constantine 'of, Greece j today
voiced through the , Associated
Press a'; vigorous protest dgaihs:
- the actions of the Allies in and to
ward his nation. ;
pending for the Associated
Trss correspondent, he said that
he wished to express,, through the
newspapers 01 we -umtea states,
liis "profound indignation" at what
he terms the unheard-of lug
handedness" of the recent attitude
of the Allies' encroachments upon
the sovereignty of Greece, culmi
nating in the occupation of Corfu,
- near Athens, and of blowing up the
bridge across the Demir Hissar.
, tie said ' that it is the merest
cant for England to talk of the
German" violation of Belgium and
Luxemburg after- what the Allies
' are doing in Greece. .
'1' He declared that the press of
the Allies has "perverted and mis
represented his motives after- per
sonal interyjews he had given news-
v papcrmen representing journals 10
i Allied countries. ' . '. '
TThe only forum of public opin
ion leffrne is in the United States'
lie jdeclired. v -'The situation is too
. vital for 'me'lb' tire a., snap about
royal dignity in the matter of in-
Urviers in thV press when, the life
and 'independence of Greece stand
. "aft -sUke. - ' '. v' '.".- -'Look
over the list of Greek ter
; ritory occupied by the Allied
: troops; Lemnos, Imbros, Myti-
teney Castelloriia, Corfu, Salonika
rChalcidicev' peninsula "and part of
Macedonia! , ".'-.'
VProportlonately this equals the
territory . the United ' States won
-from "Mexico. All of this was oc
cupied by the foreign troops with
.-out lease."
V WTien King Constantine was ask
; cd his belief as to the probable out
' come of the war,' he said briefly,
"I expect it to be a draw."
PARIS, France, Jan. 21. High
.Trench authorities consider King
Constantine's complaints ground
less. 'They , say that the Allies have
occupied Greek points only tempo
rarily with the consent of Greece,
and this has been done for the sake
of aiding her ally, Serbia. " They
declare, -that the Greek. people are
; yrapaUretic with tlie cause of the
Allies, -and point to the fact that
G reece is accepting Allied money
in loans.
E
ennrrnf
IS DENOUNCED
AJMcUUi 7TSU j TtdtrU Wlralvu
WASHINGTON, D. C QJan. 20.
Great Britaln'a Interference with neu
tral trade' was the subject of a vigor,
oua speech in the upper house today
by Senator Hoke Smith of Georgia.
Ha declared that tha facts should lead
.. to action . to prevent . Great Britain
from advancing her trade at the ex
pense of tha United States while sim
ultaneously aha is destroying Germany
commercially. Ha asserted that the
fights of citizens of tha United States
and other. neutral countriea are being
"recklessly disregarded." He empha
sized his denouncement of England's
treatment of the American cotton
' trade.
"Shall we continue to furnish Eng
land with what she is compelled to
obtain from tha United States while
the commercial rights of the citizens
of this country, are being trampled
under foot V he asked. 1
FORSALE
A 5-psssenger car and road
ster in good condition. Tel. 3230:
0 H
u ttu
NEW YORK STOCK
MARKET TOBAY
Wednesday, Jan. 19.
Following ara tha dosinj prices of
ttocka on tha New Ya.-k market to-
day, aent by tha Aaaociatad Preaa over I
tha Fedaral Wireless:
Today, day.
Alaaka Gold .......
American Smelter .
American Sugar Rfg
American Tel. A. Tel
Atchison ..........
Baldwin Locomotive
Baltimore & Ohio ...
T
25
.. 102',
v. H3H
.. 1274
4. 1062
..107
.. 94
..479
104
114',
127H
106
109
All
Bethlehem Steel : .. . . . .
Calif. Petroleum ... ....
Canadian Pacific .......
C M. A St. P. (SL Paul)
Col. Fuel & Iron ...
Crucible Steel .. . . . . . . .
Erie Common . . . .
General Electric .......
General Motora .........
Great Northern Pfd. .". . .
Ifitern'l Harv N. J
New York Central ......
Pennsylvania ..........
485
32'2
177
mk 100Va
46
64
39
172
480
65?,
0'4
174
487
123H 124
111 110 bid
1092 110ft
58
58
Southern Pacific
101
151
58
136
83H
101 H
Studebaker .............
1S4H
Tennessee Copper .
59 '
union Pacific ..........
136ft I
U. S. Steel ............
85',
U. S. Steel Pfd.........;
117ft 117?i
Weatern Union ........
89 H 91
Weatinghouae Electric.
67J, 673
TUCKER LETTER;
HE VILL 'STICK'
"I Decline to Resign,!' is Gist of
January 20 Communication,
From Land Commissioner
Flatly refusing to leave his office as
and commissioner. Joshua I. Tucker
ht written tft Governor Pinkhan, the
etter beinc: received bv the covernor
at 9:i2 this morninr. and beaxins: to
day's date, January 20.
As predicted In yesterday's Star-Bul-
etin. .It Quotes the organic act to the
territorial executive, and refers to the
governor's two letters asking for an
undated resignation. The letter fol
lows:1 . : 0' ' -' : ' :.
. 'r . "Honolulu. : f
. i "Jan. 20, 1916.
Sir: i . v ;
"I acknowledge your communication
of , January .18 1916. marked '"Private
and Confidential," and reading as fol-
ows: ' 3 . .. . " ;
'Not having had anr conimuhlca-
tion from yoi or a call from yon In
oerson since December 31. 1913. -and
having no response to my request' for
your unaaiea wresienauon, wmcn was
to be used conditionally. I now . re
ouest yotir prompt resignation as Land
Commissioner' of the Territory.'
"Your attention is directed to Sec
tion 80. of the Organic Act. as amend
ed, under the provision of which 'you
may, by and with the advice and con.
sent of the Senate of the Territory of
tiawair remove me from office.
"You will note that there Is no pro
vision for an undated resignation, and
such practise : would In effect nullify
the provision of the Organic Act. re
quiring the concurrence of the Senate
n the removal of officers who hold
because of Its confirmation.
I decline to resign my office as
Land Commissioner of the Territory
of Hawaii, as requested by you. and
neg to sav tnat as and wnen my du
ties call for it, I shall be pleased to
all upon you or communicate with
yott .- .-. , . . S
"Yours respectfaUy,
"JOSHUA ,D. TUCKER. I
"Commissioner of Public Lands.,
Territory of Hawaii."
Governor's Statement
In giving out the communication
from Ind Commissioner Tucker,
Governor Pinkham made the follow
ing statement to the Star-Bulletin to
day:
"The governor received the land
commissioner') letter this morning at
9:12 and it was not any different from
what he expected. The governor was
perfectly acquainted with the organic
act
"The date of the letter is January
20. hence Mr. Tucker must have given
out his Intentions to the press before
ne bad taken official action. Circum
stances were quite different from
what the organic act contemplated,
hence the governor felt compelled to
go on record."
ROME, Italy, Jan. 20. Fighting be
tween Austria and Montenegro has
been resumed. Montenegro ha a offi
cially notified Italy that she has re
jected all the peace terma that were
broached with Austria. King Nicho
las remains with his army and
ganizing the defenses.
a or-
Chinese troops have rescued the I
MONTENEGRO IS i MILLION DAMAGE
FIGHTING AGAIN NEAR SAN DIEGO
' ,
missionaries at the Scandinavian al-
liance mission at Patesbolong, Mon-land
golia. Recent advices were that the
mission, was surrounded by bandits.
Photos Showing Wreckage By
Flood which Swept Down Iao Valley
S-- j fZZ -
: Emil A. Bemdt, chairman of the Hawaii Promotion Committee, is not enly a business man and an expert
on island publicity, but a born newspaper-man. He proved it wben during the height of the Maul floods he
went out into the atorm to gather facta for the information of the public that. ia. keenly interested in Maui'a
miafortune. He borrowed a camera and at. considerable personal risk took a number of pictures, to get some
of which he had to stand in .water up to his neck. Unfortunately the 'man who had loaded the camera made a
miatake, which apoiled moat of the pictures, but some. idea of the rushing waters, heavy raiha and dark clouds
that covered Maui during the dark hour of misfortune can be gained from the picturea above, taken by M r..
Berndt, They ahow aome of the wreckage in Iao valley. Figurea of men and boya high on the roof a of
houses can faintly be diacerned. Mr. Be rndt'a article- appears in today' issue.
SSI
VILD STORM
Graphic Account of Valley Isle
Devastation Written lor
Star:Bulletin
(By VIQTORv C. SCHOEXBERG, of
Walluku, Maul.)
WAILUKU Maul, Jan. 18. With a
week's interval of comparatively fair
weather, attempting to efface the
f" New Year-a atorma,
waiiuKu nu agin occn nil oy a now
Ing kona gale, which resulted last
Monday night in dealing the town the
worst blow experienced in its history.
Commencing during the evening the
wind and rain increased In violence
until by 2 or 3 a. m. the downpour
resembled nothing less than a cloud
burst, filling the Iao river bed and
forcing the old stream way beyond its
usual, peaceful course. To an accom
paniment of thunder and lightning the
waters swelled to such an extent as
to undermine the foundationa of the
many scattered dwellings in the val
ley, and by 6 a. m.' the flood waa
aweeping everything within ita reach
towarda death and destruction.
Daylight, finally arriving, showed
the havoc wrought by the raging tor
rent, and it proved a sight long to be
remembered by all Walluku people.
The river had broken away from its
old bed, and almost every house met
with along Its new course was swept
away and carried along, some whole.
with even lamps still burning, and
some In a thousand pieces. It was a
most pitiful sight to see the more for
tunate of their poor occupants carry
ing what little was left of their be
longings and trying to find shelter
from the enraged elements, while
mourning their lost property and even
members of their family.
Death and Destruction.
Of a Spanish family of seven, four
of the older children only were saved,
the parents, after bringing them to
safety, returning for the baby and
were buried beneath the ruins of their
house as the flood overtook them. The
deputy sheriff, Ferreira, who owned a
(Continued on page two)
(AoeUtd Trtu ty Fdrtl Wiralesi
SAN DIEGO, CaU Jan. 20 It is
estimated that .the damage done bv
atorma in - this city and county will
total $1,000,000. Hundreds of families
in adjacent valleys are homeless. Ef.
forte are being made by authorities
semi-public organizations here to
send food to them. It is believed that
the storm has now passed. ;
V""1'-' ;
I
A t
Damage to Property, Collapse
and wasnoutsr deluging of
rviaKe up iremenaous loss
By EMIL ABEAnDT,
(Chairman of the Hawaii Promotion
Committee, who returned today from
Maui.) V
WAILUKU, Jan. 18.-The fiercest
knoa in 34 years, and some of the old
kamaainas think the fiercest and pos
itively the most destructive ever,
broke over Maul- early Sunday after
noon. The wind increase'd in veloc!t
and the rain in volume tfcn til Monday
morning between 4 aijd 5 ; o'clock,
when a dengerous limit had been
reached. Walluku. was tavored by a
cloudburst and in less than -an hour
the Iao river, running 'through the
town of Walluku, had 'reached such
proportions that the water spread and
broke over the Waihee Side o( the re
taining wall, just mauka of the Wallu
ku bridge, inundating and wrecking
the entire Oriental business section
on both sides of the street.
JJntil the two piers under the
county bridge gave way the torrential
stream of water piled up against it at
times threatening to carry the steel
brjdge with it. Finding the Waihee
side of the retaining wall weakest the
maddening waters tumbled over its
side and swept before it and out to
sea 12 stores, warehouses, dwellings,
stables in fact everything in its way.
The occupants of these quarters, who
had not thought the cloudburst so se
rious and had not taken' the Warning
of others fleeing for safety, had their
lives snuffed out. Man, beast, houses,
trees and wreckage of all kinds surg
ed through the ferociously angry wat
ers at racing speed on and on to the
sea and destruction.
Help Unavailing.
Immediately after the water reach
ed the business section no help' or as
sistance could be proffered. Those
trapped had to either swim in the
roaring, boiling and raging river to
ward some point beyond for safety or
drown. . Many able to swim not
knocked unconscious by the wreckage
or boulders were fished out alive half
a mile down the river, others have
been picked up dead on the beach and
still others have not been accounted
for at all.
- From the time of the flooding until
the waters were forced back again
into the river's bed at about 3 o'clock
this afternoon.: hundreds of people
citizens of Wailuku, plantation hands,
visitors, etc,--constituted themselves
life 6aving crews. The wall in the
river's side was rebuilt the sharper
curves dynamited and when the wat
ers were low enough not to endanger
wading Sheriff Crowell sent out help
ers for those still alive and organized
searching parties to recover the bod
ies of those who were caught' under
collapsed buildings." Ten bodies
are in the morgue so far as toll of the
storm and it is believed that many
more lost their lives who are not yet
accounted for.
Damage ia Varied.
In other places ' near and around
Wailuku houses were unroofed, foan
dations dislodged, flag poles felled
and trees uprooted. As all telephone
frlAUf STORM WORST IN 34 YEARS;
E ISLAND IN GRIP OF GALE
'of liouses, Smashed Bridges
LowLands and Cane-Fields,
v
wires 4re down no other part of the
islandjcan be communicated with At
Puuneae, from where messengers have)
come,Tnuch damage is also reported.
Manager Frank Baldwin, however,
thinks-. very few lives were lost, the
ruin bing chiefly in collapsed build
ings aa ovemowea caneneids.
Manager Penhallow of the Walluku
Sugact Company estimates the planta
tion's loss at a hundred thousand
dollars: The 2i-inch pipe line from
Iao ' Galley, used for Irrigation and
flumigg cane, the bridges and washed-
out and wrecked railroad tracks are
the cbjef items.. Repairs to many of
these w things can only be made when
(Continued on page two)
May Total From $100,000 to
$200,000, Says Report to
Alexander & Baldwin
immense damage' by the Maui
etorm the first two days of this week
is reported from Puunene in a letter
received this morning by Alexander
&. Baldwin from ' the manager of the
Hawaiian Commercial Company's
plantation.
As yet. only fragmentary reports are
at hand, but today estimates of the
damage are placed at from $100,000
to $200,000, and it is said that the
full measure of loss from the torren
tial rains will not be known until the
cane is harvested. Tor there is un
doubtedly much broken cane. In ad
dition it is regarded as certain that
the cane juices will deteriorate from
the excess of moisture. - ' r
Railways are damaged; residences
partly - wrecked, cottages badly wash
ed and other property injured as a
result "of the flood, says the letter
from unene. while both the young
and 00 cane is. certain to have suf
fprd M
Dunlg the heavy storm which las t
ed. frqpi January 7 to 10 a. total of
eight filches of rain fell, and on Mon
day add Tuesday of this week anoth
er eight inches was registered, mak
ing a total of 16 inches in 11 days.
So far no crop damage reports
have been received from Kauai, and
it is thqught that there will be no
cane loss on the Garden Island from
excessive moisture, for during the
storm from January 7 to 10 only half
an inch of rain fell on the cane" fields
there, the big precipitation having oc-
curred on the windward aide.
PUIINENE HARD
HIT BY ST0IL11;
LOSS IS LARGE
VALLEY ISLE SWEPT BY HOtJA
GALE; IAO VALLEY IS RAVA01
d v c lo u d g u n st r, ; 0 ; d a v ; : ; : jt
Noted Beauty-Spot Transformed By Oafr
ing Waters In Scene of Death and
Destruction -Large Plan
tation
THE KNOWN DEAD.
THEODORE MARQUES, Filipino, 25 years-Id.
CHUN SUN, Chinese, 34 years.
SUYETAKE JITSU. Japaneae minuter, 34 yeara.
MRS. CERRILLO FERNANDEZ, SpanUh, 35 j pears,
v , INFANT of above, one and one-half yeara. '
MRS. SOD ETA Ntf Japaneae, 32 yeara. .
CHILD of above, three yeara. V,-
JUAN ROMAN MADRONA, Spanish, three years.
SPANISH BOY. five yeara, unidentified. '
SPANISH MAN, 40 years, unldent.fied.
ADDITIONAL CASUALTIES v '1
7 Four persons in hospiftd aerioualy injured. Eighteen persaht'
counted for at noon yesterday, search being made for bodies.
Isolated from the outMtlo world for two days. by tremendous
storms,'-Maur last -'night by wireless sent news of death and destruction:
on the Valley Isle unparalleled in recent island history'. " .' ' '
Ten lives are known to have been lost, and it is feared that at least
fifteen other persons perished in great floods that swept Iao Valley,
back of Wailuku, and turned this beautiful and quiet vale into a ter
rible scene of chaos and death. '
Rejwrts of property loss vary, though all agree that the full extent
is not yet known. The consensus of opinion is that damage to; prop
erty will reach $500,000; some even place it higher.
For two days Tuesday and Wednesday Maui was cut 9ff front. :
the outside world, Which explains why no wireless news carpe regarding
the appalling conditions on the island. It was not until last -night "at
10 o'clock that a message from the Lahaina station came to'J. . Pflclt,
manager of the wireless department of the Mutual Telephone Conipaniy,
with the first intimation of the- disaster. ! Basil E. Fenn, Wireless op
erator at Lahaina, sent a message at 8 o'clock on Monday night arid it
was not until 10 last night that, he was heard from again, the plant'.fuf
niliing power being disabled. -V--- : . '- 1
It was on Monday night that the howling Kona gale reached such
proportions as to flood Iao valley. During the two' previous tlays the
weather had been bad, with heavy rains, falling, and that .night; the'
wind and drenching downpour, the tremendous waves dashing against
the coast, and the racing waters on tlie land,, reached their height of
destructiveness., : a; ;( ; '."': . ; ..-'. . .' - i ,. --
. Iao valley was looted by the $torm-gpd, the flood carrying every
ing before it. It was here that the deaths occurred. -'
GALE BEGINS SUNDAY AFTERNOON ' ,
The forerunner of the great storm of. Monday night was tW rfelng
wind on Sunday. The wind became heavier and heavier on "Sunday
afternoon and by night was blowing 35 or 40 miles an hour, witnesses
estimate. v ; . ' .
On Monday the wind rose still higher and heavy rains fell. During"
Monday night the gale increased to a hurricane," it is declared, accom
panied by thunder and lightning. . Even then there was much uneasi
ness over the rising storm but no intimation of the terror of that, night.
Growing steadily worse, the storm reached its climax of fury be
tween 4 and 6:30 o'clock on Tuesday morning. It was at this time
that the cloudburst occurred high up in Iao valley. r?f ,
; TORRENT IS RESISTLESS ; . :
Tlie heavy rains of the preceding day and night had already swollen
the usually quiet stream greatly and the. cloudburst transformed, it into
a raging river. "A good deal of this stream is over precipitous "slopes
and the water in masses gathers huge impetus. It flung itself down
the valley with resistless force, carrying not only bridges and houses
before it, but huge boulders like brook pebbles; '
The stream down Iao valley soon rose far above its usual banks
and in places stretched to a width
touched by the water could stand. As the buildings above swept down
stream, they struck and damaged ' other buildings, and T'the 'great
boulders, some of them weighing several tons, also did a great deai 'of
damage in their course hurtling down into the lower levels. '
By noon on' Wednesday 10 bodies had been recovered and p!ace,d
in the. morgue. One report todayfrom Manager H.' B. enhaljOwr of
Wailuku plantation gave the number of those recovered atrfoear yes
terday as 11. It was then fully expected that the . deaths' would reach
15, and other advices declare that the
the smaller figure.
DEATHS AMONG POOR PEOPLE ; y
; Tearing down through Iao valley the river carried away 16 Small
Iwellings occupied by Spaniards, Filipinos "and Chinese. ! It was here
and higher up the valley that the deaths occurred. In . sepie oa
life could last more than a moment or two in the. tossing, smashing-.
chaos of water and debris that rode down from the upper, slopes, v
The heaviest individual f)roperty loss, it wasreported ' today by
homecoming Honolulans. was sustained by John Ferreira, deputy sjiejfiff,
in Upper Iao valley. He had a
With its furniture and other contents, it was valued at $5,000. : He also
had two acres in taro, which was completely carried away, typicaljof
the force of the waters which tore up the fields, undermined or battered 4
down the house, and carried everything downstream. . . :
Wailuku and Lahaina have been cut off from all communication
for days and Wailuku has been in
power -was shut off for public safety
supplying the town with water was
MUCH DAMAGE TO PLANTATIONS : '
All the Valley Island plantations report some damage, with Wai
luku and Hawaiian Commercial Plantations leading;" Wailuku -has suf
fered between $100,000 and $150,000. and Hawaiian Commereialb"
tween $100,000 and $200,000. , v . " :
The damage to Maui bridges and roads has been tremendouv-totalling
between $50,000 and $75,000. The high and beautiful road that
swept around the famous Maui pali, between Wailuku and Lahaina, in
places has disappeared altogether. For long stretches the cliff now
runs' sheer into the sea, the road having been obliterated by the storm,
(Continued
Damage
unao
of a quarter of a mile. No house '
death-list will total rirarer Jo trtaii
'.' .' - .' " ;. :v
fine, house recently completed, there.
darkness since Tuesday; Thfc 'electric.
and the pipeline into the reserYoif
broken. . , - -
on pais two)
