That Vacant House
Let The Times-Dispatch Find
You a Tenant?Now
7 ry T-D Want Ads
Wonderful Little Business
Getters?Randolph I
66th YEAR
VOIil! M10 110
M'MltKIl 10
RICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY, JANUARY 2Q, 1916.?FOURTEEN PAGES.
w i:\thi: u
ru;K ii
?UNSETTLED
PRICE, 2 CENTS
PROPOSES TO TAKE
Anti-Saloon League Wants
Commissioner of Morals
Elected by Legislature.
FIFTEENTH ANNUAL
SESSION CONVENES HERE
Legislative Report Deals at
Length With Question of
Antishipping Bill.
L1CKNHK FOR DRUG STORKS
Would Eliminate Breweries mid
Wineries and Bnr Drink
ing Clubs.
Declaring for the . election b .? the
Genera! Assembly of a Commissioner of
Moral Welfare m enforce the prohi
bition statutes, the report of the legis
lative committee of the Anti-Saloon
League of Virifinta was submitted .*?
th?5 opening of the fifteenth annual con
vention of the league in r.i'"-vi St e?*t
Methodist Church last nil-).- Th'
recommendation is In contract '< the
message of Governor Stuart, who ui^?-il
that thf> Chief Kxeeuiive of the State
h?? given authority to enforce the dry
law*.
Thf reason assigned lor the election
of th'* commissioner by the General
Assembly, in the report read by I'.'v
.tames Cannon: Jr.. last night. |s that
th?* official ^h< j 1 ? t not be under th<
Governor "any more than is the Attor
ney.General. the Commissioner of
Agricultut*, the A idltor of Public A -
counts and other "fliclals who are
??harped with duties pertaining to the
entire State."
WOI l.n UK MOV K tiri'K IAI.S
Wild l'\ll. TO V:\KOItfK I.WVS
The Anti-Saloon League report agrees
with th.: recommendations of the Gov
ernor that s iltable statutes he enacted
desitrued to remove from ofTlc ni.v ofh
? ial who <\fjf s not obey liL natli to en
force the prohibition laws of *]jr. state.
The report deals at some length with
the question of antishipment statute
It rernmm' ikIs that, for the present at
lef-st. an\ citi7.en be allowed to import
for personal use a reasonable amount
of whisky. Th'* Anti-Saloon I.ejicue.
while favoring national prohibition,
does not believe the time has como en
tirely *o prohibit the personal use of
intoxicants by individuals, but does
.propose to bar the traffic. Later leg
islation. t is stated, may be asked
lifter the courts have passed on the
constitutionality of the antishipping
laws now before the Supreme Court of
the t'nlted S!atc^.
The report is publisher] in full in
this Issue, and will h" nindo the subject
of discission at the afternoon session
to-day.
i.Ant.i: m i>n-:\r ??:
ATTKXIIS OPF.MVC MKKTIM;
The meeting convened in the Flroad
'Street .Method 1st Church promptly at
*:na o'clock, with the auditorium com
pletely filled. There were many mem
bers of the Genera) Assembly present
and a considerable number of delegates
to the convention. Visitors from the
city and front various parts of the
State completed the audience, anil prac
tically every seat in the church was
taken.
Rev. R. II. Pitt. I >. D . president of
the league, presided, and Introduced the
various speakers of the evening. Pr.
Pitt presented his annual report fol
lowlng the Invocation and the exercises
Incident to the formal opening of the
convention.
Dr. Pitt in his address dwelt for the
most part with the early history of the
tornpcrance movement, lie first told of
the habit of drinking in Colonial days,
when, he declared, every man had his
whisky and when every one c.ould sell
it at his store or blacksmith shop. He
spukc of th*'- early leaders in the fight
against the saloon and the sale of
whisky generally, mentioning Abner
\V. Clopton. of near Keysvlll*; J. H.
Jeter. I>r. Crawford and others.
SHOW HOW TKMI'KHAKCK
JIOVEMKST 1IAS GROWN
He showed how little by little the
Idea of temperance has grown in the
State. At first he declared that the
man who believed in teniperancc was
frowned upon even by the ministers of
the gospel, and all others beside.
He fold of the "Good Templars'
Lodge" and how as an organized body
It started the movement, which finally
resulted in local option legislation. The
E?. work of this organisation, he declared,
was particularly strong among the
country people.
He then turned to tho work of the.
Ant I-Saloon League, showing how at
first it was a very timid and weak
body, hut how It had grown stronger
and stronger until to-day it was pre
senting to the General Assembly the
laws It desired with the full assuranco
that such laws will he enacted.
Dr. Pitt declared that the State had
been allied with tho saloons through
the political leaders, who were afraid
to array themselves againBt tho strong
organisation. Tho league was first
formed, he stated, to fight tho saloon,
but gradually Its power grew until It
had come to mean an organization
against all forms of drinking.
He closed the report by paying tribute
to all those who have labored before
and passed away or gone to other
fields, and in welcoming to the conven
tion everyone present.
J JII. I.KWIH AI.IIKIir IIA XliS
SPKAKS OX IITOKORMATIO.V
The closing address of the evoning
was delivered by Dr. Lewis Albert
Banks, of New York. He had for his
subject "Reformation." He treated it
from the standpoint of temperance
Dr. Banks spoke of how the habit of
drinking had been prevalent several
A years ago. and how the big corporations
(Continued on Third Page.)
1
Aldermen Adopt Compromise
Substitute for Proposed
Charter-Changes.
PUT POLICE UNDER MAYOR;
Health Department Is Placed
Under Administrative Board,
and Fire Board Retained.
I
B in the role of pacifist and har
> monlzer between the factions which
bail threatened to cause the defeat of
t>i?*? recommendations of the joint Com
mittee on Charter Change. Colonel
Grundy introduced and had adopted
last night in the Hoard of Aldermen.
after lonp argument and the offering
of many amendments, a substitute for
the charter-commission's * ?? j>?>r i phi
. tlife tii'-' Police 11' |i;irtment under tl..
direct control and management <?:' tb?
Mayor, the Health Ufpartniftil under
: the \dminiatrative Board, and leaving
11i?? Hoard of Fire Commissioners inde
pendent. as it is to-day. The report
int.i !.??? n amended in the meeting held
Monday night l?y adoption of the oriK
(?a I >v< tioi., requiring that appropria
'tiits shall be limited to the extent of
!ir. net- < en: of the fairly anticipated
r ? veii'ic.i for each ensuing year, eo that
i tt is necessary that the whole question
Shall he again reviewed by the lower
brant h and be concurred In or re
ijected.
When she roll was called on Colonel
Grundy's substitute. th< vote stood
' 7 ?o i> for adoption. as follows: ayes.
; Oilman. Grundy, Gunst, .Melton,
Mitchell, Powers and Workman; noes.
1 ChristIan, N? lsen. Paul. Puller an<l
Adams. As the body was in the act of
adjourning. Mr. Gunst, who has stood
steadfastly against the abolishment of
the three independent boards, moved
that the vote be reconsidered, his mo
tion being lost by acclamation.
St USTITITI-: FOIl WHOM-:
OFFKltKI) AS COMPHOMISK
In moving- for the adoption of his
substitute for the whole report, which
i had been hurriedly prepared by the
<*ity Attorney <iu: ing the afternoon.
! Colonel Grundy said that it was meant
' to establish pcare and to settle all the
differences of opinion which had arisen
J in the previous meeting, to bring about
j an agreement, which he Haiti all de
; sired. Noses hati been counted before.
1 ar.d, in spite of continued opposition
and the presentation of amendments
which, if they had been carried, would
have left the Aldermen In the position
; of hesitancy and doubt they occupied
Monday niwht. the Grundy substitute
I prevailed by the strength of the
, promised suppoit.
Waverley .Melton, of Jeffer.-on Watd.
again attempted to amend b> providing
that the City Auditor shall be elected
{ by the people instead of by the I'ity
j Council, and again r.ine stalwarts de
feated him.
John J. Mitchell, continuing true, he
stated, to th?- announced wishes of his
; constituency, endeavored as. vainly as
before to amend by placing the Fire
; and Police Departments under the Ad
ministrative Hoard "It is the will of
the people whom 1 ha\v the honor to
( represent," said Mr. .Mitchell, "to have
these boards placed under the control
of the Administrative Board, the mem
bers of which are paid to look after
the city's affairs, and I most urgently
| represent that these departments
: should be placed under that board."
The motipn was lost by a record vote
of ;? to 2: ay eh, Mitchell and Puller;
j noes. Christian, Oilman, Grundy, Gunst.
Melton, Nelseti, Paul, Powers, Work
man and Adanm.
ril.HT OVF.ll DISPOSITION
OF FIHIC Dlil'AUTMKXT
Messrs. Puller and Gunst also strove
desperately t<? have the I-'ire Depart -
; merit placed under the Administrative
' Board. Mr. Pifller expressing himself
i In favor of abolishing all the indepen
I dent boards.
j 'Wo should." said Mr. Puller, either
I abolish the Administrative Hoard or
j place two of the Independent depart
I ments under its control, leaving the
[ Police Department to the management
? of the Mayor,"
j Mr. Gunst, agreeing with Mr. Puller, 1
?' said that It was hardly necessary for
| the City Council to change th<- charter |
i since an ordinance requesting the I-cg
| lslnlurc to give the people that right
j had been passed by both branches of
the Council. Mr. Puller moved the
i adoption of his suggestion, and lost
j 10 to 2, Christian and Puller voting aye. '
Lawrence Paul, sticking by his guns,
fired a Parthian shot at the section giv- |
Ing control of the Police Department
to the Mayor, his verbal shrapnel fall
ing wide of the mark by the standard
register of ft to 3. On his motion to
j leave the Health Department under the
control of a free board he lost by a tie.]
An amendment offered by Mr. Puller j
providing that the City Treasurer and 1
the Commissioner of Kevcnuo shall be
elected by the people for a terrp of four!
years was adopted. His offered amend-'
ment giving to all officers and em- ;
J ployes elected by tho people the right 1
j to trial by a Jury after suspension or
, dismissal by the Mayor failed of ndop
j tlon by t> to 3. The right of appeal I
i given in the proposed charter change
lies to tho Judge of the Hustings
Court, whose judgment In tho premises,
without trial by Jury, shall be final.
AMBXDMEiVT INSKHTF.n AS TO
KAXK OF rOLICH OFFICIOUS
An amendment, inserted nlso by the
lower branch, providing that tho ap
| polntmcnts of captains and sergeants
by the Chief of Police shall be subject
to the approval of the Mayor was pass
ed. Mr. Nelson opposed the section,
giving to tho secretary and purchasing
agent of the Police Department the rank
of captain, and was beaten by an over
whelming vote.
The action of the Common Council
petitioning the Legislature to abolish
tho Board of Public Interests was con
curred in.
BOTH SIDES CLAIM !
JUDGESHIP FIGHT
Sims and Lile Supporters Issue
Statements Predicting Victory
at To-Night's Caucus.
HOLD ANIMATED MEETINGS
"Fight Is Won," Says Porter, in
Charge of Campaign for
Judge Sims.
On th* eve of tin- most keenly-?n?ed
contest for a nomination at the hands
of the General Assembly tliat Yirtrlnia
lists? seen in ;nany yeai both the sup- ?
posters of Judge Frederick \V Situs
and Professor William Minor Lile. is
sued .statements lute last night confl
. t. ? . ? ? pred ict in it ?h? nomination "T
! i:. . > .-andidatc f??:- the Impending
\.i .| .,ii th< State Supreme <"oirt
t the headquarters of the two aspi
r :> ?: t m f. >Hi*- judgeship. friends and
supporters w?-re in session until lite
at night. Animated meetings w.-re
held hy both the Bile "nd Sims
ents. The tense situation was roll
f i) jn the trossip of the lobby stjid tal
; lerles. ?licrc groups of delegates sind
? Senntoi s discussed to-night's :tion
wiin high degree "f interest
?l.\nt six roNM'.HTS
TO ^IM1- II \ \ m:k
At th?* Kinis headquarters it was
stated that during the evening so:
i members of the caucus who had been
counted with the opposite side came
In and nave their assurance that tliey
would support the Bouisa man. The
members In consultation with the lead
Ms of the Sims forces itvluded :i num
ber of the most representative men in
th" <"icn?-ral Assembly.
I'hil IV Porter, clerk of the l.ouis:'.
(County Circuit Court, who has been in
I charge of the details of the campaign
i in behalf of Judge Sims. Issued the fol
lowing; official statement:
"1 a:u confident that the fight is won.
| After a careful poll of the Joint i stucus
roll it can be stated with every assur
ance that .Turtle Sims lias a ssifr ma
jority, which will un?iues::<.-..ihly m
dergo no cliatige."
At the opposite end of the same hall
and a block away on the Broad Street
side of the hotel, the supporters of Mr.
l.ile met to discuss the situation. The
gathering included such representative
men as John IV Minor. Henry C. Ulely,
George Bryan. Colonel Ben P. Owen
and Delegate Hugh A. White, of Bock
1 bridge.
sri'Ptun'F.us of i.ii.f.
SAY I IK 1* IN l.KAO
At 10:30 o'clock ,*t committee of Mr.
l.ilc's friends, composed of Mr. Minor,
Mr. Ulely anfl Mr. Bryan, issued the fol
lowing statement:
"After a careful canvass of the sit
uation the friends of Mr. Lile are satis
fied that he is now well in the lead, and
they ffel confident that lie will he elect
ed. His s.ippo *. comes from every sec
tion of the State, and is composed of
Democrat.-* of all shades of political
opinion?organization, antidrganization,
wet and dry.
"The enthusiastic indorsement of his
candidacy by the overwhelming major- j
ity of the bar of the. State is the best
evidence of his splendid qualifications
for the Supreme Court, and that should
be the controlling consideration."
There are 11 it votes in the Democratic
caucus, and the winning candidate will
have to poll sixty votes. It appears,
certain that the name of .ludue Kdward ;
S. Turner, of Warrentor will be offered
;is a candidate by his friends.
A formal call for to-night's caucus
was issued yesterday hy Caucus Chair-;
man Jordan. It will be held at S o'clock
in the hail of the House of Delegates.
In Senate circles the prediction was
current that friends of Senator Jordan, j
of Staunton, will abandon fnetr efforts j
to secure his admittance to the Demo
cratic caucus. The investigating com
mittee, having this matter in charge,!
i? is reported unofficially, is divided on |
the question of recommending admit-,
ting him.
it is believed that if the Senate can
ctis is pressed for a decision it will i
vote decisively to exclude Senator Jor
dan from its councils. The abandon
ment of the petition for admittance
would, in the lipht or this situation,
be welcomed as the most practicable
solution of an embarrassing problem,
it would leave Senator Jordan unaffil
iated with either the inajjority or mi-j
nority party as far as the present ses
sion of the General Assembly is con
cerned.
llOI'KWKI.I. ftll.I.S AUK
OFFKIIKD IV IIOTII If OI SI-IS
The day saw the introduction in both
houses of the bills which are counted j
upon to create for Hopewell a system of
muiiic.psiI government and to place lt|
en \ irginiu's roll of cities. Two sets)
of three companion members were of-j
fered, one set in the House by Dole
rate Harrison, of Prince George, and I
the oilier in the Senate by Senator Bar- |
ham. of Bunnymcde.
1*Mr.it is st bill providing for a teni-l
porary administration of the local af-j
fairs of the unincorporated community, j
known as Hopewell and adjacent ter- |
rttory. until such a time as it becomes 1
a city. The second hill creates the city
of Hopewell and provides temporary
and permanent officers for its gov
ernment. The third bill appropriates
?r.0.nr?0 for the proper administration
of the affairs of that pail of Bland
Magisterial District. Prince George j
County, known as Hopewell, and for I
the repayment of half tills sum Into the
State treasury.
MACIIINKUY IMIOYIDFI) FOR
GOVKHN'MKXT OF IIOFK WIOI.I,
Roughly sketched, the hills provide
for an administrative hoard of live
members, commissioned by the Gover
nor. The board Is to pass necessary
rules Mid r?-gulat1o.ir, for the admlnls
tratlon of local aiY;*l..<: pending the In
corporation cf the Community as a cit>.
(Continued on Fifth Pago!) '
Favor Centralization of Effort,
Indorsing Plans of High
way Commissioner.
ASK FOR NEW LEGISLATION
Eleven Items Recommended by
Commissioner Coleman Meet
With Approval.
<-'on11illization of road woik super
vision throughout Virginia in the of
tice of the State Highway Commission
was recommended bv an almost unani
inous vote Ity the delegates to the tifth
annual convention of the Virginia Itoad
P.uilder.s* Association. in .session yester
day afternoon. Klcven recommenda
?ions for tin* bet11 rment of tin- present
State highway laws. which will
strengthen the hands of Hiuhwa; Com
missioner Coleman, if adopted t>the
Sta'e I.enisktture. were passed.
Tii?> reeotntuenda t ions wete prcpated
iiy a committee appointed by Mr. Cole
iiiJi' . and opposition was exp?ct*d
the report win n it wiim read before the
convention. Kx ept for a few minor
ci.anu?s m wording nn<l amplifying some
of the ciauses. the report passed with
tl>lng colors. It was a complete vie
tory for the policy of the State High
way Commissioner.
Senator Marry Flood Byrd. who i
patron of a hill in the Senate giving
the local road authorities supervision
over State road work, read a paper, en
titled "Iload Huilding From the Conn
ty's Standpoint." lie said that he was
oppose! to the policy of the State High
way Commissioner, and believed that
the county authorities should have
charge of the distribution of State road
money.
IIYHD'S llll.I. NOT
m:roiti-; rowi:\tion
i'pltol'iing the policy of the State
Highway Commissioner ami speaking
against decentralization in the distribu
tion of State funds for road work, J. K.
Penny back or. chief of road economics
at the United States Ufllce of Public
Hoads and P.ur.ii Kngineering. read a
paper on "lieonomios of Itoad Main
tenance and < "onstructior.."
After Senator Ilytd had read his
paper, !". P. Sh'dton. i f Hanover, moved
that the P.yrd bill pending before the
Senate receive the approval of the
convention. Chairman Charles T. l*is
siter. however, ruled that the motlo:;
was out of order, as the next business
before the convention was the report
of the committee on resolutions. It
was voted to hear the report, and the
last vestige of real opposition to the.
policy of the state Highway Commis
sioner was removed, because the eleven
recommendations adopted upheld him.
The members of the committee on
resolutions were:
W. C. Saunders, chairman Hoard of
Supervisor:-, Henrico County: <.J. Taylor
Ownthtney. Norfolk County; I.. 1.tin
ton. Frederick \Y. ft. Hutlln, Danville;
Harden llairston. Henry: \V. P. Moore.
Hod ford: .1. Thomas Smith, Russell: C.
IV Scott, Assistant State Highway Com
missioner: P. S Roxley, Orange; W. 11.
Aston. Washington; c. S, I.uck. Han
over; W. A. Reed. Botetourt; Otto f..
Kvans, Amherst, and A. J. .lohnson,
James City.
1:1.i:\r.v m-:? ommio.noations
A DOI'THI) II \ CON VIvVTION
It was decided on motion of Mr.
ICvans, of Amherst, tiiat the convention
vote separately on the eleven resolu
tions presented by the committee.
After va two hour's' discussion, the
recommendations were adopted as
given below:
1. An amendment to .the present
State aid road law, so as to provide
that the State Highway Commissioner
shall be authorized to agree with the
local road authorities to properly grade
and drain any road, or sections, tribu
tary to a main traveled road, which
they may deem necessary: and t(i im
prove such road or road<\ to meet the
traffic conditions of such roads. The
purpose of this is to give the county
authorities more latitude in the selec
tion of roads needing improvement with
the assistance of State aid.
_. (..'ranting the State Highway De
partment and the local road boards
the same power given to certain public
service corporations of exercising the
right of eminent domain in aequiring
rights of way for public roads.
3. In accordance with the recommen
dation of the ijovortmr and the State
Highway Commissioner, the committee
recommends that the maximum salary
of resident and county engineers or
superintendents may be increased from
$100 a month to $1.10 a month, pro
vided that such increase shall be ap
proved by the local road authorities in
conjunction with the State Highway
Commissioner.
WANT DKFIN ITU KKTIMATKM
ON COST OK N10W IIOADS
4. liecotiimcnding an amendment to
the present State aid law to provide
that no election shall lie held on any
bond issue for a specific road improve
ment until estimates covering the cost
of such improvement have been sub
mitted to the court ordering ihe rlec
tion, by the State Highway Commis
sioner. and no bond issue shall be voted j
for a less amount than the estimates
so submitted, and provided further that
as to nil future bond issues, it shall
be provided that no such bond issue
shall be had except tinder Ihe following
conditions: That the Hoards of Su
pervisors. in tlicir annual levies, in
addition to providing for a sinking j
fund and the payment of interest, shall 1
also provide a fund which snail be at !
least 3 per cent of such bond Issue, i
which shall be applied to the main
tenance of such roads. The purpose of:
this is to remedy the trouble arising
out of bond issues being inKufP.cient
to improve the road to which the pro
ceeds of the issue are to apply.
5. Whereas, the automobile has bo
come the most important single factor
in road maintenance, it Is tho sense of
this convention that the money derived
from tho license tax on automobiles
(Continued on Tenth Page.)
U. S. IS VULNERABLE
TO FOREIGN ATTACK
Major-General Leonard Wood i
Testifies of Utter Unpre
paredness for War.
OCEANS NO SERIOUS BARRIER
Increase for Regular Army Pro
posed by Garrison "Ab
surdly Inadequate."
WASHINGTON. January If* -Alajor
G< neral Leonard K Wood told the
Si n-tfo Military Committee to-day th.it
till' coast lino of th*' I'nited States was
: open to attack by any well-organized :
' foreign army, dc.ipit# its equipment of
forts, mines and submariner, and that
the oc?'?ui formed no serious barrier to
j invasion. lie declared that in th?*
country's ?ri'?ent state of utter un
prepared ness for war, a trained force
, ?>f ir.'i.onn men could intlict incalculable
damage before ati nrmv could be as
s"ml?led to meet it.
Kvents of 11j?? ICuropenn war clearly I
demonstrated, the general said, that
tin- sea was ?li*? best medium for the
movement of troops, and lie pointed out
that a force of ISA,000 nun. fully!
'-quipped, had beeii landed :it Gallipoli
from a single expedition of ninety>eiRrht
ships, atrainst submarines, mines and i
an underwater screen of barbed wire!
tl:.-it fringed every available landing I
place.
Kmphaslzing the way that by which
troops cannot be improvised to meet
reaulats. General Wood declared the
fundamental basis of any policy of adc- !
quale national defense must be the,
principle that with suffrage koes an
| obligation for military service. Such
a policy had been advocated by George
Washinuton, lie said, and if it hail been
adopted, Canada would have become1
part of tiit- l"n I ted States in the War
of ISIS.
, poll WAIl
OM.V O.Vt"K |\ IflSTOHV
i "Qnly once in our history have we
, been prepared for war," be added
1 "That waa Immediately after the Civil
War, when we had a million and a half
trained soldiers. Our diplomatic cor-'
; respondence with Krauee concern in a i
j Mexico was very brief. It required |
? only one note, because of our prepared- i
| ness. Th< y were told to net out, and |
they not out.
"There isn't goiriR to be any weak- ]
! ness abroad after this war is over.
You will find that more male children
'will have been" born than have heen
j killed or injure. 1. Vou will have all
the Bold, perhaps, but it will not do
jvou much good unless you stiffen it
J with Iron."
As to the needs of ilie regular army.
General Wood expressed the opinion
that the force of regulars with the !
j '-olors should be maintained at L'10,000. 1
l i ?f these, he said, 20,000 equipped anil
; supplied for a year's time should be
l;ej>t in the Philippines, anothct 20.t>00
i m Hawaii, and IT.,000 at Panama. He
! urged that tlie regulars should have a
i reserve system, under which, in a six
I year enlistment, men would be dis
'?harued whenever their company com
manders reported them ns efficient. Into
;i reserve, to be definitely assigned to
war stations. Equipment for members
; of the reserve would be kept at their
, stations, and oneo every two years they
; would be required to Join the colors for
j ten days' training to keep tlteni up
to dale.
r.AIIKISOX I'HOI'OS \ I.S
i:\ i ntKi,v iv\itK<ti a i i:
General Wood said that if universal
! military service was not to be obtained,
? lie favorer! A continental army scheme
; substantially as proposed by the War
1 'epartmcnt. provided "it Is absolutely
I divorced from the organized militia."
The increases for the regular army pro
posed by Secretary Garrison, however,
j he characterized as "absurdly inade- I
; quale and indicating a failure to np-'
I predate the lessons of th'e Kuropean
war," particularly as to the proportion
i of Held artillery, lie recommended
i that the proportion of Held guns bo
? tlxed at five to every 1,000 rifles or
sabers. The present army standard is ,
per 1.000, although in actual equip
, menl the regulnrs are nearer two per .
i l.ooo. A board recently crertted in the
j War Department has fixed on .">.0 per
! 1,000 as the number necessary:
; Reverting to the condition of the
country to face war with a first-class !
j power, the general said the United )
States was utterly unprepared, and '
j knew nothing of the problems it would '
have to meet| At least 2,000,000 men !
I would be needed, lie declared, and they '
I could be obtained, he believed, only by '
compulsory service. At present there |
I were but 700.000 modern rifles and |
1300,000 old-model weapons in govern- ?
| ment arsenals, ho said, and up to Jlvo j
days ago the capacity of all American
' plants to produce rifles was only 32,000
a day. Kngland alone, he said, wanted
?!.">,000 a day, while Krance called for
two rifles In reserve for every man in
the field.
Aleneral Wood was positive in declar
ing the militia was composed of a fine
personnel, but cursed by a hopeless sys- '
tem. I'nless it could be taken over by j
the government and absolutely severed j
from any connection with the States,!
he said it should be abandoned to the.]
States entirely, and not a dollar of gov- I
eminent money wasted upon it.
SOI.DIKIt i:i,H.Mi:\T
POIt KKDKUAI.r/.ATION
"We should terminate the Intolerable!
system," he declared. "The soldier ele- j
ment of the militia all want fcder.'iliza
lion. No man who refuses to coma
Into the continental army Is fu l>e dc- I
pended upon." '
Under a universal service system tho
general said there would be 8,350,000
men between eighteen and thlrty-flye |
years of age, upon which the burden of
military duly would rest, counting on
only BO por cent of that age. He believ
ed, however, that every citizen should
be held liable for some duty ro the
government In case of war.
"General Wood," asked Senator Cham-j
(Continued on Second PagcT)
Tells of Army's Needs
MA.IOH-GIC.MOKAI, IjHO.V AIIII WOOD.
I
RUSSIANS LAUNCH FOUR
flTTACKS ON AUSTRIANS
After Only Slight Pause, Begin
Strong Offensive on Hessa
rnbinn Frontlet*.
YIKNNA CLAIMS lU.riLSK
! King of Montenegro 1^ Reported on
Way to Italy, and Fffort to Crush
His Country l'rohably Will He
Itesunied.
After only a slight pause shim Gve
! conclusion of tin' "New Year's'' battle
Ion the ?astern front the Russians
I again have lii'gun a strong offensive
against t lie* Austro-llungarian forces
| on the Bessarabian frontier, east of
! Czernowlty., capital of Bukowiua.
j Vienna had forecast thi>> action by
! the announcement, that, the Russians
i were throwing strong re-enforcements
| into Kam <lalicla.
In the initial offensive of what prob
; ably will be termed the "second hat
i tic," the Russians launched with nuin
j erous columns four attacks near Topor
| outz and Bovan. but according: to
i Vienna they were everywhere re
! pulsed.
The Germans have attacked Russian
' bases at Tarnopol. ICast Galicin. with
: an air squadron.
I While lite Turkish "War Office asserts
\ that the Russians in the Caucasus liavo
' abandoned their oeffnsive along the en
tire front of nearly 100 miles, owing
J to the re-enforcements of the Otto
mans and their assumption of a violent,
offensive, the latest Russian official
'communication describes the Turkish
. army in this region as having been dis
organized and dislodged from a strong
position extnnding over sixty-six miles.
! the Turkish retreat taking mi the char
? aeter of a panic-stricken Might. Sev
! eral Turkish units, the communion tion
j adds, were almost annihilated, hundreds
j of bodies covering the Held of battle.
Jkivi; ok montk.xkgiio
(IN \\ A V TO 1TA1.V
With the announcement that Monte-j
negro Irid broken off negotiaions for
I peace with Austria-Hungary comes the. j
'fiffici.il statement in a I'aris newspaper j
[that King Nicholas and his family and!
[ suite : I ready are on their way to Italy. |
It is presumed that with the severing!
of the peace pourparlrns the Austrian*!
! again will take up where they left olT ?
the campaign of crushing the Utile. I
kingdom as Serbia was crushed.
Although artillery bombardments.!
mining ami count'i-mlning operations j
and aerial attacks continue almost ex-j
elusively on the western line in France. ]
! the Germans report the capture of!
! trenches along the Vscr River, fin- i
lente allied airmen have dropped bombs
on Met/, and Arnaville. doing some ma- j
teriaI <lainrigo.
Several attempts of the Austrians to I
approach Italian positions on the Tol- I
'initio sector and near Oslavis were re-j
pulsed. Itomhardinents have prevailed
i elsewhere.
Another war council of the entente'
allies, attended by tlio Rritish and
French members, has been held in l.rni- |
don. Nothing is known concerning the!
council except that it was held for the j
discussion of plans for further prose-!
cuting the war.
Great Britain has informed the I'nited j
States Ihrotifjh Ambassador Page that'
"Innocent" mail taken from steamers J
by the British authorities is not being j
unnecessarily delayed, but forwarded to j
the addresses immediately. Mail and j
parcel post matter which is not classed i
as "Innocent" is being held for the
prize court. /
XF.W OKKK.VSIVK MO\ K.MK.NT
ST A IITIOIl ll\ IIISSIWS
KKItlilN'. .latiuary 1 !? ?by wireless to.
Sayvllie).? A new offensive movement j
lias been Inaugurated by the Russians!
to the east of Czernowitz. near the1
Bessarahlan frontier. The official Aus
trian statement of to-day says the Rus
sians niado successive, attacks at sev
eral places, but were repulsed.
KAISKtl CONKIOICS WITH
KING OK III I.G A IM A
I.O.\l)O.V, January IP. ?The Kaiser
has signalized his recovery by making
a visit of great military state to the
Balkan theater of war. At Nish. the {
"war capital" of conquered Serbia, the I
German Ihnperoi met King Ferdinand |
of Bulgaria yesterday.
CARRANZA ISSUES
OUTLAW DECREE
AGAINST VILLA
Any Citizen of Republic Au
thorized to Execute Ban
dits Without Formality.
LCPEZ AND CASTRO ALSO
PUT BEYOND PALE OF LAW
Republican Senators Determine
to Keep Up Fight for
Action.
DKMOCKATS HACK PKKSIDKNT
Intervention Resolution Dismissed
Behind Closed Doors by
Committee.
Washington, January is.-?General
Carranza notified the Mexican c.mha.?.?v
here to-day that he had formally pro
claimed Francisco Villa. Pablo Lope*
and Rafael Castro outlaws, because of
the massaere ?f American citizens at
Santa Ysabel.
' nder the decree. any citizen of the
republic is authorized lo execute the
| outlaws without formality, R say*:
In view of the frequency with.which
! outrageous cr inies are being committed
> b> hands ot outlaws scattered in vari-j
ous parts of the republic, even after
the annihilation of the armies of the
j reactionaries by the Constitutionalist
l forces. I believe that the situation thus
created calls for the extremity of cner
jgoth: measures of suppression in order
; I hat such crimes shall he met l.\
severest punishment to those who arc
responsible for them.
In view of t lie recent attack on a
railway train :,t a point distant ei?rht
; Kilometers from Santa Ysabel. in the
(State of Cliiiiunhua, by bandits led bv
. Ha fuel Castro and I'ablo Lopez, mem'
! l,,,'s of "1,: forces commanded by Fran
j Cisco Villa, under whose orders thev
j were operating. and in accordance witii
the precedent established by the Con
stitutionalist government In similar
i cases occurring in the. past. I have seen
j lit to issue the following- decree:
Article I. The reactionary leader
: and c\-Genernl Francisco Villa is
j hereby declared to bo outside the pale
? of i be la w.
"'Article II. The reactionary leaders,
| ex-General Rafael Castro and ox-Gen
I eral I'ablo Lopez, are hereby declared
| lo be outside the pale of the law.
; "'Article Iir. Any citizen of Mexico
Is empowered hereby to arrest the
| leaders. Francisco Villa. Rafael Castro
' and Pablo I.ope*, and to execute them
j without any formality of the law. But
i the citizen performing such function
shall make a record in writing describ
ing in detail the occurrence, and set
l ting forth the proofs of the identity of
I the outlaws and the proof of the exe
j cut ion.' "
! HKIM Ml.ICW MO\A'I'OltS
STII.l. FIGHT FOR ACTION
j Republican Senators made clear at
j to-day's meeting of the Foreign Rela
tions Committee their purpose to keep
up the light lor action on tho situation
in Mexico. The Democrats were equal
ly an determined that no legislative ac
tion should be taken at this stage, and
'hut the problems involved should be
left 10 the President.
For more than two hours the com
I mittee discussed behind closed doors
intervention resolutions and proposals
to send troops to Mexico to co-operate
with General Carranza In maintaining
! order and running down the murderers
j of American citizens. Senator Horah,
. of Idaho, and Senator Lodge, of Massa
I cliusetis, wore the principal spokesmen
j for tlie minority, while Senators Clarke,
i of Arkansas: Williams, of Mississippi,
I and Stone, chnirman of the committee,
| defended the altitude of the adminis
t ration.
i Senator Stone laid before the commit
tee the administration's attitude re
I gurdtng Mexico. He told the commit
tee that President Wilson belloves the
recent outrages in Mexico were com
[ milted for the sole purpose of forcing
[armed intervention by the United
I States.
Senator Stone said that the adminis
tration believes that if the L'nlted
states sent an armed forco into Mexico
to punish the men responsible for tho
massacre of the seventeen Americans
near Chihuahua, it would bring about
irlciion with the Carranza government.
He said this would weaken the Car
j ranxa government and would result in
another revolution in Mexico.
.11 "ST FIII Ml CO.VFKIIKNCE
ITU THK I'KKSIOE.NT
The veteran Democratic leader had
just come from a conference with the
President when he addressed the com
mittee.
Following Senator Stone's statement.
Senator Morah, Republican, said he
would not assume the responsibility of
immediately pressing the Senate for
action on intervention resolutions. He
stated, he would, instead, canvass the
Senate and ascertain the sentiment of
Ids colleagues so he will know how to
proceed if further outrages are com
mitted. The committee thou adjourned
without taking action. A heated dis
cussion took place before Senator Ro -
rah announced his stand, In the course
of which the Democratic members made
it plain they would stand behind the
I resident and prevent tho passage of
intervention resolutions. Senator Mar
cus Smith, of Arizona, who has been
outspoken In his demand that some
thing be done, gave his support to
Chairman Stone. Of the Democrats,
Senator Pomerene, of Ohio, alone hesi
tated and expressed the opinion that *
policy of further waiting would be un
wise.
Thus far the majority leaders hats
succeeded in preventing action on any
of tho resolutions submitted to the Sen
ate Iii the last week. No vote was
taken in the committee to-day. even
the proposal of Senator Gore, for e-ea
jlon ot ? neutral zone in.Northern Me*,
ico to be policed Jointly by American
