" fyw s&
FINANCIAL EDITION
SJrttger
NIGHT
EXTRA
itueutn
NIGHT
EXTRA
I
v
c r
vol. n no. no
rUILADELPIIIA, THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 1910.
Cormonr, 1016, i ins fcaito Lispqu Com rift I.
PIIIOJS ONE OlfltfT
MAKE ALIENS
j AMERICANS,'
i CRY SPEAKERS
Noted Men and Women
Open Americanization
Convention's Big Day
PUSH DEFINITE PROGRAM
Better Education for Immi
grants Demanded at
Conference
Today's Program
Conferenco sessions, beginriing
nt 10 n. m. and continuing until G
p. m. Bcllovuc-Stratford. Open to
the public.
4 p. m. Colonel Theodore Roose
velt arrives at Broad Street Sta
tion. 7 p. m. Doors open at tho Mct-
ropolttan Opera House. No seats
reserved later man a ociock.
8 p. m. Americanization meet
ing at the Metropolitan Opera
House. Colonel Roosevelt speaks
on social and economic prepared
ness for peace and unity, tile title
of his address being "Fear God
and Take Your Own Part."
Other speakors Rabbi Stephen
S. Wise, of Now York, "Ameri
canizing Americans," and John
Ron, representing tho St. Vincent
do Paul Society, "Tho Meaning of
Americanization," Alba B. John
son presiding.
Noted men and women met In confer
ence at the Bollovue-Stratford this morn
ing for a series of rapid-fire, flvc-mlnuto
peeches on tlio need of making aliens
Into real American citizens, nnd on tho
need of making nntlvo Americans Into
letter Americana, as well.
The delegates to the National Confer
ence on Immigration and Americaniza
tion took up every conceivable phase of
the problem. Tho scsalons of tho con
ference, which began yesterday, will close
tonight at the Metropolitan, when Col
onel Roosevelt will make the big Bpecch
of the night on preparedness, both In the
rt of peaco and of war.
v Jfore extensive scnooi laciuues iur mo
UP I lton will solve, our nroblpmapt .the. for-
SVFelKn born, said Justlco uiarcnco in. uoou-
,wln, of the Illinois Appellato Court, in a
speech this afternoon, in nearly every
great ccntro there Is a German city, a
Polish city, a Bohemian city nnd a com
munity of Itusslan Jews, keeping to their
own language, their own traditions and
holding themselves apart from the rest
of the community.
"This condition Is the fault of tho na
tive born nnd of tho United States Gov-
eminent, and Is In no way the fault of
the alien hlmBelf. For nearly a hundred
nd twenty-five years the Government
adhered to n policy of absolutely Ignor
ing tho existence of the Immigrant after
he landed, and tho attitude of the native
born citizen has been cold agd repellent.
The Government has got to send the
alien to school. This matter of educa
. tlon Is almost exclusively a matter of
evening schools.
' "What wo need Is to have the teaching
forces of the country co-ordlnnted under
the United States Government for the
purpose of Americanizing the alien born.
NO HYPHENATES SAYS McGOWN.,
Chester McGown. president of the
American International College at Sprlng
' field, Mass., speaking ntthe morning ses
sion, said that of his 132 enrolled stu
dents 25 nationalities nre represented.
"In fact," he said, those who enter this
Institution catch the spirit of tho great
Brother of Man and learn what it means
to be a true American, even though he be
of foreign birth.
"No hyphenated Americans at the
American International College."
Etndlay Gullck, of the Federated Coun
cil of Churches of Christ, advocated es
tablishing a system of registration for
Immigrants. n.
"This system," ho said, "should have a
fee, lowered In proportion as aliens pass
examination. This woulil not bo com
pulsory education, but economic pressure.
A great majority woulh pass the exam
ination with rapidity because the giving
Of naturalization would depend on tho
, rasalng of examinations,"
Mr. Gullck also advocated the "open
door" on all coasts, making no restriction
-against either the Chinese or Japanese.
Dr. Jane E. Itobbins, of the Jacob nils
rHelghborhood Settlement, New York, said
the danger of "anarchy" lies not In the
, lover places but from the "rich don't-
-io cioss.
"If you are rich and don't care," she
aid, "I define you as an anarchist,
there aie no Idle rich men that I know.
Thy are all on the Job all the time.
tt up to the -women at the beginning
n wis new era to help the men. we
Ihould say 'Stop. I don't want this
Continued on 1'ase Six, Column One
THE WEATHER
te Enough Is not nearly enough for some
'tace. We used his stuff yesterday
' Hermans, cold, beards, jou remember
EM Zapp would say. than he' came run-J
r over to us with another dispatch
IfOni tha frnnt BiiwoiHtiir It- w.i nnnlhaF
Wea for this space.
LONDON, Jan. 20. "Fluffles" is
the latest nickname for British sol-
alers. The name arises from the fur
coasts which the men in the trenches
re wearing this winter. Instead of
wearing the fur on the inside, as the
Germans do, Tommy Atkins wears It
on the outside, glvlrfg him a fliuty
fcPDearanen.
, U must be very cold in the trenches. In
"'d, If tt affects correspondents' gram
war as much os all that. Tommy" At
fuwes are not the first animals to wear
W on the outside,. But think, think how
Mat fluffy appearance of the Germans on
the inside must effect the digestion. And
Wme of this casualty stuff in the papers
probably not all u to bullets and gas.
Undoubtedly the coata tickle some of
tk Germans to death.
-""' FORECAST
rw" Philadelphia and vicinity
mm and warmer Ignight ftttd Friday,
FIGHT ANTI-ALIEN BILL
Phllndelphians Beforo Congress Com
mittee L. E. Levy to Testify
WASHINGTON, Jnn. 20 -Arrangements
have been mnile with the House Immlgrn
tlon Commltteo for n hearing tomorrow
for Louis Kdwnrd Levy, of Philadelphia,
president of tho Association for the Pro
tection of Jewish Immigrations. Tho
commltteo Is considering tho bill for re
strlctlon Immigration, which has passed
tho House and Senate In two Congresses,
but failed of enactment because of presi
dential vetoes. Mr, Lovy will oppose
Immigration beforn tho committee.
Among thoso who appeared at the meet
Ins today were Vlto St. Baldl, fepiesent
Ing the Italian federation; Jacob Glns
Imrfis tho Jewish World, and David J.
Gaiter. All opposed nntilmmlgratlon legislation.
FEELS 'BULLY,' IS
CHEERED WILDLY
Hurries
to Dr. White's
Home to Rest for Big
Speech Tonight
MAY TELL "PLATFORM"
Colonel Will Be Orator at Clos
ing Session of Americaniza
tion Conference
T. R. is here.
He's here with his slouch hat. hli specs,
his "Ivories" nnd his "pep." If nny one
doubts that the Colonel is here he should
havo been In tho neighborhood of the
Broad Street Station at 4 o'clock when
the train from Now York nrrlved.
The ylpplng, jelling nnd all other kinds
of crying out that greeted tho arrival of
tho train echoed and reverberated under
the roof of tho hugo terminal, Tho win
dows downstairs rattled and the doors
blow open from tho vlolenco of the noise.
Whistles and howls sounded faintly above
tho tremendous uproar as tho leader of
tho Progressives made himself seen on
one of tho rear cars.
The crowd surged forward with out
strotched hands waving like wheat In the
Holds In a frantic effort to shako hands
or bo recognized by tho Colonel. It broko
into roars of delight os tho famous Big
Sticker doffed his hat, shook his tousled
hair and vigorously shook his twoclnsped
hands to show that ho was glad to bo
hare.
Those In tho front of tho crowd wero
flattened against tho car as those In tho
rour pressed forward.
"Speech, speech!" cited some In tho
crowd. Tho Colonel wnved his hand for
silence, but the cheering kept up In a
continuous roar for some minutes. The
face of the pioneer of proparodness was
one great grin. He shouted a few words
that couldn't be heard nbovo the din.
Ho shook hands with a few eager ad
mirers and then came down the steps
os hugo cops cleared a way.
"No hyphens hero!" shouted one man.
"T. It. next President!" shouted an
other, and the crowd burst Into more
cheering.
"How do you feel?" asked somo one,
to seo what would happen.
"Bully,:1 replied the Colonel, and then,
as though to drive it home, he clenched
his lists and drove one into space as ho
again fairly spat between clenched teeth,
"Bully!"
His speech at the Metropolitan Opera
House tonight, which many thousands
have sought in vain to hear, all tickets
having been snapped up, is expected to
be not only a plea for Americanization,
to which cause the Colonel Is, of course,
Continued on Page Six, Column Pour
BILL IN COUNCILS
AUTHORIZES CITY
CONVENTION HALL
Gaffney Ordinance Gives
Mayor Power to Pro
ceed With Plans
SITE ALREADY SELECTED
Mayor Smith today requested that an
ordinance authorizing him to execute a
contract for the erection of a convention
hall on city-owned property along the
Tarkway bo Introduced In Common Coun
cil by Joseph I Gaffney, chairman of
Councils' Finance Committee, This ac
tion was taken.
The bill, which authorizes the Mayor to
take all the steps preliminary to actual
work on the planned structure, was re
ferred to the Finance Committee, and
will likely be reported out and passed on
February 3. There Is available Jl.400.000
for the work.
The site already selected by the Major
Is at 21st and Callowhlll streets. Coin
cident with the action In Councils was a
visit to the Mayor from the Falrmount
Business Men's Association, protesting
against the site selected.
The ordinance was named 'An ordi
nance to authorize the Mayor to enter
Into and execute a. contract for the erec
tion of a Convention Hall, to be called
and known as the Municipal Auditorium,
on ground owned by the city on the
.!?., hetween 21st and 22d streets.
;.h of Callowhlll street; authorizing.
Li to ner Into and execute a
tract with an architect to wwnrini
Yand specifications therefor, and Pvldjnjf
.L ,h construction of same under the
direction of the Department of Public
Works."
STRANGE WOMAN HELD
Accused of Trying to Pass Bad Check,
She'll Get Another Hearing
Lillian Anderson, who says her home
u Lome Island. New York, and who was
arrested by Detectives Melklejohn and
McDennott: accused Jf attempt ng to
Ms" a bogus check at a department store,
was held today by Magistrate Fennock
for a father hearing, in order that a
,.,h.i. of oersons who have complained
losing mSnej! '"hrough similar methods
...a hv a woman, may come forward
a see If they n Identify the prisoner.
M " Elizabeth Smiley, wife of Lieu
tenant of Police Cots Smiley, who w.
L m n and" robbed In her home by a
Xr.rt.1- .nimliur to see It b
IdeaUfy Mb Andewon, but & wi-J
ROOSEVELT FLAYS WILSON THEORIES.
AND PLEADS FOR NATIONAL HONOR
The present Administration hits behaved, as rcpards Mexico, in a
icajf to make every decent American hann his head.
Individuals and nations who preach the doctrine of milk and wntcr
invariably hate in them n softness of fibre whicli means (hat they fear to
antaponie those who preach and practice the doctrine of blood nnd iron.
The United Slates has not a friend in the world.
This country's conduct lins secured for it the "contempt of every one
of the Rreat chilized nations of mankind.
"Stand bu the President" )cs, while the President is right: and
stand apainst him when he is wronu,
tf, after firlnjj on Sumter. Lincoln, immediately, in a speech, had de
clared that the friends of the Union might be "too proud to fifiht," nnd had
spent the nct four months in exchanging "firm" diplomatic notes with
Jefferson I)ais, he would hae recehed the enthusiastic support of the
nrdent adherents of peace and we would now have no country.
Mr. U'tfaoii finally has adopted m; principle about preparedness,
although he has sought to apply it in a half'hcnrtcd and inefficient
manner.
A year nftcr I denounced ncacc-at-any-prlce, Mr. Wilson followed suit,
quoting the verses from Ezchfel, which for months I had been quoting.
A ucar after I had attacked hyphenated Americanism Mr. Wilson
followed suit at least before the Colonial Dames.
No man has n right to live who tins not in his soul the power to die
nobly for n great cause.
t Shame on the creatures who would teach our people that it is any
tnina' but base to be unready and unable to defend right, even at need
of the Btcmcst of all tests, the test of righteous war, war waged by a
high-couraged people with souls attuned to the demands of a lofty ideal.
From recent Koosevoltinn writings.
THE COLONEL IN TOWN
m
-.SBBBBSBlHRsfffi , i ... ASKnBBBBlB.
jiHHnsBBnB98f6SKSlSclKjs9EnES4HScBBHkKHiiBBV:
liBIII i sM.rzJ'&Wt&mMMMaKmm -l
Theodore Roosevelt arrived in the city this afternoon to speak
before the delegates to tho Americanization Conference tonight. He
was here last in April, 1915. '
I MONTENEGRIN. HAN
RIPRESO LE OSTILIT A'
U Consiglio dei Ministri Discute
a Rqma Circa l'Azione Col-
lettiva nei Balcani
La Legaadone montenegrina a Roma ha
annunclato oggl unlclalmento che ie forze
montenegrlne hanno rlpreso le 03tilita
contro le truffe austrlache.
Telegramml da Iloma dlcono che si e
riunlto oggl cola' 11 consiglio dei ministri
alto scopo dl discutere 11 program ma dl
una azlone collettlva e concetrava nella
Fenlsola Balcanica da parte desli alleatl
delta Quadrupllce Intesa. Si Ignora pero'
se in questo programma e" compreso lo
sbarco di una nuova spedlzlone ttaliana
sulla costa albauese per un'azlone often
slva contro I bulgari. che mjnacdano da
Elbassan. e contro gll austriact che min
acclano dal Montenegro. 11 consiglio e
stato convocato per desiderio del re non
appena egll e' tomato lerl da Taranto
dove si era recato per passare In rlvlsta
la flotta ttaliana e per conferire col duca
degli Abruzzl e con altrl ufllclall superiorl
della marina da guerra.
(Leggere in Sa paglna le ultime a plu'
dettagliate notizlo sulla guerra. in Hall
aao.) - n
Greek King Condemns Allies
LONDON, Jan. 2. Kins Constanllne
of Greece has given Qut aa Interview
In, which be. bitterly arrajsus the Alliea
for setiure of Hellenic territory a? a var
base la the Bakum,
Mr V sj
COUNCILS WILL PROBE
WATER METER RATES
Finance Committee Chairma'n
Calls Present Chnrge
Tod Low
Joseph P. Gaffney, chairman of the
Finance Committee of Councils, at this
afternoon's session of Councils, intro
duced a resolution for the appointment
of a committee of five to investigate the
equity of existing meter rates and charges
for water.
'Ihe resolution recites the fact that of
ficial reports have been made to the ef
fect that the present charge of 80 cents
per 10CO cubic feet, or approximately t
cents per thousand gallons, is too low
and under the cast of production, and
that, as the number of meters in service
Is constantly increasing, the loss to the
city is growlag larger each year. v
Chairman Gaffney, in presenting the
resolution, which was adopted by both
branches of Councils, declared that it Is
Intended to result in an equitable adjust
ment of rates charged the approximately
45.000 properties now making use of
meters.
lie suggested the appointment of two
members from each branch of Councils
and himself aa working committee
l SE ABOAKH IXOKIUA 1.TB. 4UI R. M.
sauMani uu WJ- liJJ l.ate'J-t-.
SUSPECT SLAYER
OF WOMAN WAS
MAN SHE AIDED
Murderer of Mrs. Anna Da
vis Believed to Have
Often Annoyed Her
MAY BE ARREST SOON
Suicide Theory Investigated by,
Police Man Was Fa
miliar With House
Investigation made hy thp police of
Darby warrants the suspicion that Mrs.
Anna Davis, who was found dead with
hor throat cut, nt the homo of her em
ployer, N. It. ColIlnsKrove, 117 Fern
street, was murdered by a man uho had
born annoying her for many months.
Chief of Police Thomns Clnrk said to
day tint It was very evident thnt tho
man who committed tho crime wa
fnmlllar lth every part of the house He
Itnow where to go to find tho razors of the
dead woman's employer and then evi
dently went straight to a small box where
tho money was concealed, nnd broko It
open with an nxe. He obtained $110 nnd
$200 worth of Jewelry. Tho munloier was
In tho act of Binashlng tho box when
discovered by Mrs. Davis.
ANNOYED WOMAN OFTUN.
Chief Clnrk said thnt several neighbors
knew that the dead woman had been an
noyed by this man, who was seen near
the house cstcrd.iy.
If la Iftinnn th.it Mm TIivIm liltn nplml
ns housekeeper for Mr. Colllnsgrove, n
contractor, for the jenr, was contented
with her position.
Colllnsgrove, who Is n widower with
three children. Is to be mnrrled In u few
das and had Informed Mrs. Dais that
he would retain her ns housekeeper. She
was writing letters to friends In Glen
Kiddle to this effect when, it Is believed,
tho murderer entered the house. Tho fact
that the letter was unfinished bears out
thli statement.
It Is brllcved by the police that Mrs.
Davis bcfi tended the inun In tho past ntul
thnt he learned accidentally where her
employer Kept his money.
KNEW IMICMISES WELL.
It Is iilso possible, the police believe.
Hint thp murderer knew of the approach
ing wedding of Colllnsgrove, nnd, know
lug that there was considerable money
In the house for tho nppronchlng cere
mony, decided to get It before the affair.
, There are somo who believe that tho
man under suspicion, who llvs In Ches
ter, led Mrs. Davis to bcllovo thnt he
cared for her In order to get Into her
confidence. The police nro on the trail
of thn suspect and he may bo under ar
rest within a few days.
It Is evident that the man who com
mitted the crime had been planning It
for some, time and was fnmlllar with
every move mnde by Colllngsgrovo. He
knew, evidently, that the contractor had
gono to tho city nnd also that the chil
dren were at school.
COMMUNITi AnOUSKD.
Mis. Davis was well liked In Darby,
and the community Is nroused over the
crime. Many of the residents ntul busi
ness men aro making Investigations un
their own account and doing all that Is
possible to nld tho authorities. Efforts
will bo made today to raise a reward for
the capture of tho murderer.
Ilrakemen questioned at the railroad
siding ticar here and conductors of trol
ley cars say that they noticed no sus
picious strangers leaving the plnce.
Chief of Police Clnrk todny started a
search of the woods near here nnd also
ordered nn investigation of all abandoned
Continued an I'urc Two, Column Two
CZAR'S TROOPS
TWO DAYS' MARCH
FROM ERZERUM
Grand Duke Nicholas
Presses Offensive in
the Caucasus
TURKS ARE FLUNG BACK
rETKOGUAD, Jan. M.
With Erzerum, the principal city of
TurklBh Armenia, as his objective, the
Grand Duke Nicholas is pressing his
Caucusus offensive energetically. Advices
received here today said that tho Slavs
have penetrated to within two days'
march of Enerum. and expect to open a
bombardment within another week. The
Turks, it is reported, have been flung
back on a 66-mile front.
Earlier in the war the Russian Cau
casus armies moved against Erzerum, but
were driven back by superior forces,
without arriving within striking distance.
Heavy artillery Is accompanying the
present advance, tho city being well for
tified. Erzerum has alwaa figured as the bul
wark of Armenia in previous Itusslan
wars nn'd is the Turkish base for the
Caucasus operations. It is a city of
about 45,000, partly inclosed by a wall.
BRITISH RELIEF COLUMN
ONLY 7 MILES FROM KUT
LONDON, Jan. 20. General Aylmer's
forces, marching to the relief of the Brit
ish, surrounded at ICut-cfl-iAmara. ad
vanced to within seven miles of Kut-el-Amara
last night without coming In con
tact with the enemy, it was officially
announced In the House of Commons this
afternoon. This represents an advance of
18 miles. The relief army Is at Essen on
the Tigris.
The announcement was made by Sec
retary for India Chamberlain, and was
greeted with cheers. General Sir John
Nixon, who retired from command of the
British Mesopotamia ftrces because of
111 health, is on his way home. Chamber
lain announced.
j
Yare Gets $89,973 City Contract
Municipal contracts, aggregating more
than JIOO.OOO. were awarded today by
Director Patesmao. of the Department of
Public Works, The awards Included pav
ing sewers and building inlets on Dela
ware avenue from, Mifflin atreet to Bay.
der avenue. Edwin H Yare, ISB.8I3.W. The
construction at a. sewer oX JRlUenhous
street. GermattowB, McCooi Construction
QUICK
PARK LAKE CLOSED TO SKATERS
Gustlue Lnke and the Wissahlckon Creek were closed to Bkaters
by Fnlrmount Park Guards this nftemoon. There is still skating on
Coneoutse nnd Hunting Park Lakes.
BRITISH SUBMARINE WRECKED ON DUTCH COAST
LONDON, Jan. 20. A British submtuine has gone aground 6n
tho Dutch coast, the Admiralty announced this afternoon. The crew
was lcscued, A British' destroyer rescued part of tho submarine's
cuv. The remainder wcic taken off by n Butch warship aud taken
to Ilollcmul.
IJIG SEAPORTS TO BE MADE SAFE FROM ATTACK
WASHINGTON, Jan. 20. General Wood's stntcment that foreign troops
could bo landed nt fortified points on tho United States const was flatly
contradicted todny by. General Weaver at tho House. Mllltnry Affairs Commit
tee hearing. While admitting new guns used In tho European war could
shell New York city and San Francisco, Weaver said ho was now asking Con
gress for new guns for these harbors that would make them Bnfo from such
attacks. Weaver said the Philippines, from a military standpoint, were a
liability.
BRITISH SHIP IN DISTRESS; SENDS CALL FOR AID
HALIFAX, N. S., Jnn. 20. Leaking and In distress, tho British steamship
1'ollentla early today sent out calls for uld. She is nbout 70 miles off Capo Ilaco.
She reported her pumpH unable, to check tho Inflow of wntcr. Tho liner Gulseppa
Vcrdl Is steaming toward the Urltlsh boat. Tho Pollcntln. last reported nt Mon
treal, November C. She Is believed to bo In tho Uiitlsh Admiralty servlco.
HULGARS AND TURKS TO AID GERMANS IN WEST
COPKNHAGUN. Jon. 20. Travelers arriving from Germany state that
reports there nro to the effect that Bulgarian and Turkish troops to the number
of 100,000 nro to bo sent to tho Western front.
HOLLAND FLOODS COST $100,000,000
AMSTERDAM, Jan. 20. Tho floods In Holland, which already have caused
damage!! estimated at $100,000,000, nro growing worse dally. Eighty yards
of the wntcr land dlko north of Durgerdnm collupscd last night, and moro than
10 houses were swept nwny by tho waters that were let 'oose. Three chll-.
dren were drowned.
HRYAN "ENJOYING THE WINTER" IN FLORIDA
MIAMI. Fla., Jan. 20. "I am enjoying- tho winter here," said W. J. Bryan
today when asked concerning tho plan proposed by certain pacifists ,t6 fol
low President Wilson's preparedness stump tour, with Brynn ns their star
attraction. "1 have no plans for speaking nt ruracnUJ wus- all he would add.
200 KILLED IN LILLE MAGAZINE EXPLOSION
LONDON, Jnn. 20. "The Berlin Lolcftl Anzelger," says nn Amsterdam,
dispatch lecelvcd today, "declares that the recent explosion nt Lille resulted
In a terrible catastrophe. Tho munitions plant there completely disappeared,
all the men In it being killed.
".SurroumlliiK houses and factories were also destroyed. More than 200
wero killed and many times that number Injured."
BOROUGH CHARTER GRANTED TO BRYN ATHYN
Tho .Montgomery County Court nt Norristown this morning granted the
application of residents of Bryn Athyn for tho Incorporation of tho village
Into a borough. This Is tho Swedenborglnn settlement In Moreland township
In the lower end of Montgomery County..
DATE OF OPENING OF CANAL UNDETERMINED
WASHINGTON, Jan. 20. In response to n query by Secretary of War
Garrison, Major General George W. Goethnls today notified tho War Depart
ment that tho report that tho Panama Cnnal would be opened on February
1G was without foundation. Ho said It was impossible to forecast when the
canal would bo opened.
MONTENEGRINS YIELD MUSEUM OF ANTIQUE ARMS
VH3NNA, Jan. 20. Tho queerest collection of antique weapons ever brought
together outside n museum has been deposited with Austrian troops at Cettlnje
by tho Montenegrin population. When the terms of the peaco agreement were
made known, Montenegrin civilians flocked to Austrian headquarters with all
sorts of weapons. They laid down ancient muskets and swords and knives
with which their ancestors hail defended themselves many decades ceo. Virtu
ally every householder In Cettlnje, ovon widows with no males in the family,
possessed several weapons.
DENIES POPE SOUGHT INVITATIONS TO MEDIATE
HOME, Jan. 20. "The Holy Seo did nothing up to today cither directly or
indirectly to solicit from either group of belligerents nn Invitation to participate
In or preside at a peaco conference," says the Catholic organ, Corrlere d'ltale.
In an article evidently Inspired by the Vatican. The Tope, It asserts, does not
count upon tho European conflict for tho solution of the Roman question, which,
as Cardinal Gasparrl said, will not be settled by force of arms.
i
TURKS HAIL FIRST TRAIN FROM BERLIN
CONSTANTINOPLE, Jan. 20. Train communication between Berlin nnd
Constantinople was opened with the arrival hero of the first through-Balkan
train, On board were the presidents of various German and Austro-Hungurian
chambers of commerce, and other leading Austro-Hungarlan business men, official
representatives and a party of newspaper men from the Teutonic allied coun
tries and the United States, A large party of Turkish officials and Journalists
met tho train at San Stefano, Tho reception hero was almost typically Amer
ican in enthusiasm. Speeches of welcome were made; the station platform
was Jammed with an Immense crowd cheering wildly and waving hats and hand
kerchiefs; a brass band tried in vain to make itself heard above the din.
HOUSE LEAVES FOR PARIS; WILL VISIT BERLIN
LONDON, Jan, 20. Having concluded his conference with prominent British
officials and business men. Colonel Edward M. House, personal representative of
President Wilson, left for Paris today. All ho would say concerning his stay here
was that he had seen every one he wished to. When he arrived in London Colonel
House was undecided whether he would visit Berlin, but he has now determined
to go there. He will leave Paris Sunday for perlln by way of Switzerland. lie
will stay a week In the German capital.
KAISER'S CORFU VILLA TO BE SERB CAPITAL
LONDON, Jan. 20. Martin H. Donohoe, tn a dispatch to the Dally Chreflicle
from Corfu, Bays that the members of the Serbian Government, headed by tlwe,
aged Premier Pachltch, have arrived at Corfu from Brindlsl. He adds that th
Achillelon. the Kalsef s villa, probably will be used as the temporary seat of tU
Serbian Government. Corfu was occupied last week, by French troops.
, , t
DERBY OPENS NEW RECRUITING CAMPAIGN
LONDON, Jan. 20. Another great recruiting campaign oil voluntary lta
was inaugurated at a meeting In Downing; street between the Earl of Derljjr; and
the Central Recruiting Committee, The Intention la to make another attiptf
through the stimulus of a widespread appeal, hy posters and other advariieiAg'
measures, to lend such a measure of success to the voluntary movement thai
the military service bill shall become a. dead letter Lord Pcrby prtMded j
meeting, which, was attended hy civilians and military mm of fcih n!cv U .r
memluera of the Hous of Common aad others interested a rtcrultiiiif. tt ,j.
dcl44 to invite Uayorm and ethaf ksci authorities to co-operate Ja st,c W
botii eiugle and married ma for ti&Mrvlee.
5
NEWS
N
, k sr vktmtis u ma is.
aen v
