kv ft
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average copper price
vtesk ending Jan. 12
23.49.
WEATHEP.
Arizona Rain, Wed
nesday fair.
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 202.
EISBEE, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, JANUARY 20, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
STORM WORST
in HISTORY
DANCER'S AFFAIR ,
WITH CHURCHMAN
BRINGS TRAGEDY
District
Bisbee and Surrounding Su
burbs Entirely Cut Off from
All Communication with
Outside World.
SNOW IS HEAVIEST
IN MANY YEARS
Lccal Damage, from Wind,
Snow and Rain, Compara
tively Light. Much Incon
venience As a Result.
JVith snow felling from late yester
day afternoon all night, following a
morning of rain and a still earlier pe
riod of severe wind, the worst storm
in the late history of the District was
the experience of Bisbee and the sur
rounding suburbs. Telegraph and tel
ephone lines went out of commission
last evening, completely cutting off
Bisbee from the outside world. The
damage locally, though considerable,
was reduced to a minimum, compara
tively. The wind, which blew ell of Tues
day night, dispersed the storm clouds
during that time. Yesterday morning,
however, the wind abated, except at
irregular intervals, and rain drenched
the District and surrounding country,
turning the streets into small rivulets
end the arroyos into miniature tor-'
About midday there was a short ces
wtion of the rain and about five o'
clock the snow took the place of the '
down pour. From then oil until early
this morning the snow fell continuous
ly until the streets were covered with
a coating of from four to ten inches.
Old-timers of the Warren District
declare that the storm has been the
most severe, of its character, in many
years. The snowfall, in itself and its
extent, is unprecedented.
The wind yesterday morning did con
siderable damage about the District
and surrounding country. Tuesday
niehf one of the -Central Pharmacy's
windows crashed in as a result of the
force of the wind. The rear of the
Orpheum thcp.tre was torn up. One of
the warehouses of the Bisbee Fuel &
'Feed Company, on Slag Dump hill, was
unroofed yesterday morning about 11
o'clock. During the night many roofs
wer damaged in various parts of the
District.
Advices from Naco, yesterday, indi
cated that the wind was fully as bad
in that town as in the District The,
Brown building, on the Mexican side
of the line, was partly unroofed. A
garage building on the American side
of the line was also damaged. Reports
from the country indicate that wind
mills and ranch buildings, generally,
suffered. . '
The absence of the telephone and tel
egraph service, entirely shutting on
Bisbee from all communication with
the outside, was a big handicap.
Though some press reports were re
ceived at an early hour last evening
the flies failed early.
It is thought that snow on the poles
and wires of the loop between Osborn
Junction ard Bisbee caused the break
in the 'service. The local telegraph
people had no way of determining
whether the main line of the South
western was affected in the same man
ner or not.
The telephone service Is severely
crippled by the storm. There was no
V -
.
x S
EMPEROR IS;
ATTACK. !
JOSE RODRIGUEZ, VILLA'S LIEUTENANT, IS EXECUTED IN JUAREZ
!Pekin in Throes of Panic
Effort to Assassinate Em
peror Yuan; Explosives Un
der Imperial Palace.
IMPERIAL TROOPS
CONTROL SITUATION!
Miss Elsie Buerlein.
The bullet with which Mrs. Lillian
Fyfer wounded John Ulrich, wealthy
manufacturer ..nd churchman of
Joliet, 111., a few days a g-o, has had
the further effect of ending the heart
affairs of Ulrich and Miss Elsie
Buerlein, formerly a dancer in the
shorus at a Chicaircgtheater. Ulrich
vow says if he M'j.ers he will re
turn to Lis wife end children whom
be lieswUd-in Philadelphia in 1910.
LOWELL MAN IS
More Trouble Is Predicted;
Suspicious Characters Ar
rested; Official Comments
Withheld; Empire Startled.
PEKING, Jan. 19. Intense excite
ment prevails here and martial law
is in effect In many sections of the
city owing to the discovery of a plot
to dynamite Emperor Yuan. The manyi
arrests have not resulted in the ap-'
prehension of the parties believed di-!
rectly responsible for the consumiua-
tion of the plot. However, several
prominent leaders of revolutionary
factions have been taken into custody
I and startling developments are ex-
pected to materialize, momentarily.
The finding of a large number of
explosives under the Imperial Palace,
coming as it did, immediately after
the suppression of riots in several sec
tions," created the wildest excitement.
It was reported that troops were be
ing brought in from every district I
but later advices indicated that these j
reports had been exaggerated and it
is now believed that the imperial i
forces have the situation well in hand. !
Keen students of the present state !
of Chinese affairs were free in pre-j
dictions that the trouble is but s 'light j
as compared to more serious disturb-1
ances which may be expected. No of- J
ficial .statement could be secured j
from imperial headquarters.
li .ow-i eft izz?s-,
5 f l B PANCHO VILLA
i : -.t,M 9 . m y. Br .
t : . y i iJ- si
l :? - , AT y TRAD
i Vfi&V..- ? 'x..V I ! n PHI INF
JOSE RODRIGUEZ . . . u j
i : ,
FRENCH EXPORT
E
suspense in
LOUDON us
LEADERS
CONFER
Crowds Besiege Newspaper
Offices in Quest for News;
Grecian Problem Assumes
Serious Aspect.
.
ENGLAND SENDS NEEDED
ASSISTANCE TO GREECE
Turkish Troops Reported Vic
torious After Desperate Ef
forts Against Heavy Odds;
German Food Problem.
LONDON, Jan. 19. The war situa-
' Figures from France Indicate ition as8Unied a 8ensational "-p". "
that Though Country is at .
w u r U ' velopments of the most vital nature
1C H"'" iavc; are pending. The arrival of Premier
Briand of France caused the first
! awakening to the fact that the Allies
affairs were at a point where prompt
action must rule. Tonight. London is
Maintained Usual Level.
PARIS. Jan. 19. That the French
export trade is not paralyzed by the
war, and that
some Instances in a state of suspense and crowd are
! MR nil
HI i
POLITICS
France is exporting more products that
In pease time, is a curious and unex
surrounding the newspaper offices
and other places from which informa-
CLOUDS GATHER LOTTERIES ARE
in
CAUSING ICR
ANNOYANCE
pected situation indicated in recent i uon mJ D expected. I onsiderable
reports of the Minister of Finance. indignation Is expressed at the fail
While France is buying in the sum I ure r tn War offic to ls8U a ton?
this year of about two billion francs Phensive statement. However, the
from the United States, the money fflclaU are promising satisfactory bul
value of her exports to the United ,et'n8' swuhi" tbe ew hours.
States have not fallen off more than GT?n "! bHle:.ed l haV
renratnj a suuauuii UflliaiiUlDK prouipi
jten per cent. The United States i.
i France's second best customer, at pres j
The ar
atte.ition. It is learned from reliable
sources that considerable disappoint-
I,
CRAR6E0 WITH
SMUGGLING
DUTCH WILL FIGHT
'STOCK DISEASE BY
I ..Ilk IT a1.h J V. k
I""' ",lu "'- " i ment is felt at the failure of the latest
! merely seems to have changed in iu-i,u,,A . ,x r-.
pv eases the accustomed' commercial ! : ,, , th
Rumor That Obregon Had; Sales by Chance in Foreign wished recently to buy twine or therGreek nilnHtei- it is learnt that
Countries Force Post Office United States for use in the southern j Great Britain will "se id more than
Department to Take Precau-I v,neyards t0 hold UP the rinPB" Be"j5.fM0 tons of coal, thereby eliminat
e .1 ire i cau8e ot the ,ack of freight space tn . nK an chances of railroad trouble
llOnS IOr Uie U. O. . uv,in. rmm Mow Vnrk anil his hnrrv ' v.l.,1, i I.. .v.. a TV..
v t . f " ..... ... - . - ..... i ufi.tx " aa rri iiiiipij luimiriim, t uai
to secure positive delivery, ne caoiea Greece faces a situation
Been Arrested by Carranzaj
Not Verified But is Thought i
Possible by Observers.
W. L Larkins, Apprehended
at Nogales with Ounce of
Morphine on His Person,
Held in Bond of $500.
W. I. Larkins, a resident of Lowell,
who, last night, was caught by United
States Customs officials at Nogales
with an ounce of morphine sulphate In
his possession, was held to a prelimi
nary hearing, by United States Com
missioner J. D. Taylor, in $500 bond.
The United States officers, and par
ticularly those having to do with the
enforcement of the Harrison Act, that
went into effect nearly a year ago,
hiv been in the D'strict several times
in search of the person or persons who
sell drugs In the Warren District. It
to seid. though not officially, that Lar
kins has been under suspicion from
several sources.
The charee on which the Lowell
man was held for a preliminary arose
over the smuggling statute of 1909,
covering opium and derivatives of opi
tm. Lxrkins. it. is alleged in the com
print, was bringing morphine, which
ft derived from opium, into the United
State from Noeales. Sonora. At the
Mmp of hi arrest the man explained
he was securing it for the use of one
of his ramily who had become addict
ed to the use of the drug. He was al
lowed to continue on to Bisbee and
w arrested Tuesday by United States
officers.
Yesterday Larkins declared he was
DOUGLAS, Jan. 19. Carrauza offi
cials yesterday asserted that they
ntrrrnCMT MTUfln(Vwere witno,,t advices of the reported
UillLnLi. I rfSLlnUUO;arrest of 'General Obreson -by the
j "first chief" at Queretaro, and while
doubting the authenticity of the re-
Old Style of Slaughtering In- port.-believe that such might be the
friA Pttl Havin Frwif ; ca3e as Obregon was arrested on the
' J a .1 t" li .i i ' orders of Carranza at the same p
ana iviuuui i roumc, wm or
WASHINGTON, Jan. 19. Increase 1
Abandoned in Netherlands.
THE HAGUE, Netherlands, Jan. 19.
The Dutch government has decided
that the combatting of foot and mouth
disease among cattle by the slaughter
of diseased animals will be abandoned,
and some other method tried. The
slaughter of cattle infected with the
disease cost the government nearly
$3,200,000 in indemnities in 1915. for
the disease is widespread In the Neth
erlands. Everywhere in the rural dis
tricts boards bearing the notice, "Foot
and mouth disease" are to seen on
the borders of pastures. The number
of infected cattle .slaughtered in the
last twelve months was over 24.000.
place
a little over a year ago and "detained"
for two days, until Obregon had re
assured Carranza of his loyalty and
convinced him that he was not a sup
porter of Villa iu the latter's move to
rule Mexico.
That Obregon has been the most
loyal supporter the chief has had dur-
bound to
to an American firm in Manila, asking ! cause the most drastic action there.
in the number of government lotteries tnat tnp twfne be forwarded direct j within many hours, is Indicated by
abroad as the" war drags itself out from there. ' the report that all the Grecian forces
is forcing United States postal autn- It is in the exportation of France to j have been withdrawn from the Bul
orities to be especially watchful to tbV United States that may be seen j garian frontier, .with the exception of
.... ... . , I some odd phases of war business, oiie battalion. Lack of provisions is
prevent their advertisements in this1 1" v . . , , roarf1,H .h. ,,.
. t , , w .Thus on a ten months basis, for table regarded a tne cause.
liTyTn the'uXrStrC1- "Nations were 2, From Austro-German sources it is
ways it kas w .t 51 bJ .m!el "3.000 francs, whereas for the present reported that the Turks have driven
as. It kas said at the post offlet to the United State'? the Russians-back in the Caucasus,
department today. Indiv dual letters !v',,r France sold to tbe Lnitea Mates ,infnrri.;.nt rr,vwt i
t . v, rie-nno fnnra France i 1 urKlsn relniorcements arnveu tn
are written to American citizens In an,ln tne 8Um of '1'.',00 francs, 'ranee ,llnrh
effort to induce them to purchase -Id to ! w hhrea Tened c Ph oI
tickets and news stories are circulat-' francs worth of perfumes and soaps. ; Turfcish g
ed of fabulous sums won.. , i""jase of 1.237.000 l Acc0rding "to report, from Consul-
Letters soliciting clients, if ' they ,1913. Her sales of m.le. butter and q
fall into the department', hands.-never, cheese have increased from L'-T-WO ior Rum
reach their destinations. Some get frsncs in 1913 to 2.7S7.000 francs for.
months of 1915. Her hu-' . ... .,.; ..,
ing his rebellion against theiHuerta
eover impnt and in the pliminaiion of I through the department if on the out- the first ten
Villa as a factor in the Mexican gov-side they do not present a suspicious .num hair sales are practically th cleverl- 1 generalled Ottoman troops
appearance. Ail me suspectea letters same this year as in otner years, pern . fought wUh bravery uneqUalled in the
are diverted and opened. 1.258.000 francs. Her wine sales are ; historY of warfal.e ,n(l struggled with
With news stories the department almost normal, at S.086.000 francs. desperation, a fact illustrated by
does not find is so easy to deal. Thej the effort of her people to make ta)e9 pur0orting to came from eye
solicitor's office of the department up for the enormous Import bill, her witnesses, t
Should the report of the arrest of ho,(U that any news story advertising ( MiPS of artificial flowers and fruits; That the RUS8ins displayed a brar
e commander-in-chief of the Mexi- a lottery must be barred from the pl)-e jumped to 5.13," 000 francs a sum I ery which stamped them as possessed
ernment is pointed out by his friends,
who expect within the next twenty
four hours to have his arrest denied
a'ld "official" statements issued of!
both being on excellent terms.
the
had outside of the District last even
ing and, yesterday. Manager Gunnison
stated a great many local connections
were out, due bpth to the wind and
rain. ' The manager added that a force
of men was already at work making
the necessary repairs and, barring a
further continuance of the storm, the
system would be again In perfect
shape at an early moment.
long distance communication to be bringing in the morphine for the use
of a member of bis family. He stated
that, through the severity of the law
he was unable to secure the drug from
physicians or pharmacists and this ne
cessitated his action in going to Mexi
co to purchase it.
Though there Is but one charge a
gainst Larkins. at present, that of
smuggling. It is very probable he will
be indicted on two charges, for smug
gling and for having the drug on his
nerson which is contrary to the pro
visions In the Harrison Act. '
POLICE JUDGE WEARY
PORTLAND, Ore., Jan. 19. "I am
tired of the endless procession of woe
and misfortune that passes before the
municipal bench. Inasmuch as I can
do little or nothing to lpssen it, I am
wesry of penalizing people," is the
explanation Riven by Judge John Stev
enson, of the Municipal Court, for re-,
signing.
can army prove true, his friends are na''- Under the department's ruling : imost twice that of normal years. j0r ne RneM courage is proven bv re-
not alarmed over the ll'tlniftte free, this means any StOry giving publicity Tho tame fact holds COOd for fancy .' nnrta nf Turkish nfflrera an.1 firman
The appropriation for the payment , dom of obregon at the hands of the to a lottery. It does not have to be fans bon9i brushes and oys. leader of Ottoman force . The rasu-
"first chief," as it is believed that no Pala advertisement. A striking fact of comparison Is alty list Is said to have been enorm-
punishment would be meted out to Many news stories of European lot- hrougnt out n rutomobile sales, ions but no reliable figures are obtaln
him, unless it was that of dismissal teries have been printed recently, the Vr.nrf, holleh, 70.401.000 francs worth able.
of indemnities to the breeders has
been reduced to an almost negligible
sum of $70,000 in the budget for 1916.
but a bill has been introduced placing
$800,000 at the disposal of the minis
try of a'griculture for the purpose of
trying other means than slaughter for
dealing with the disease. The breed-
frora the army. , aeparimem says, wmcn approacn of utolnobne!, ,nd motor cycles dnr-
It Is admitted that there has been . vio.i.un ,nr months of this year.
According to statistics furnished by
Under Secretary Tennant. German
some friction between Obreeon and story that mentions the name of
the "first chief" at diverse times, be- dinner or winners or a lottery is neiuj Jg to th rnited States 2.-i two and one half million, these flsr-
cause upregon opposes some oi me " isu" imuimu. a .iui;.
ers are to be asked to isolate cattle policies of Carranza and believes that too. that might be expected to
.i . . ni ip r rm hi-- in uuui
suspected infection while experiment tne latter slioulu give way to some 'n i sum mieuuuu in .uurrj mm . iti, e,.,., mn are offering broad general sta-
a r aa aaaa 1Y1 IllTl C FA 111 I I fllTl I HP I II II PQ Clll' I
Is tried in treating the disease with more popular and competent leader readers wouia investigate is nem io,- j: . ., tistics to Indicate that the Germans
!s aeainst 4.418.000 francs in 1913. and ! casualties have totaled more than
e flsr-
jt Aon rr.-. nnh urea represennng losses in uiea.
t .. . . , . I mmi1f1 gnd tn!inff Rrttth atnfea-
t- t - - -
some of the cures recently reported as j who could cement all factions of Mex- be a violation. """T"7' "
il . Uni ot.H f ih Qun.o i in,., innr ' a section or tne law ouotea DV tDei-'"M-
Wiei v - - . f r.
The ar- department reads: i-ram a- !. - - -
khaving been discovered both in
United States and Switzerland.
much seen
goodwill of foreign nations.
i . . ... i tK nAM.nnA t uui iv ir .inn ii.i.i rrancs.
i .. i . , il. rest oi UDrecon is laKcn more as a' 'w rtuurt, t.nuiar, uniuuici,
Frlesland cattle country, the great
Interest is displayed in the govern
tet Jest, than that he is in personal dan- or publication of any kind containing Although France is buying twenty
1 " 1 .... - ... ... I . . 1. I..,k.. nnn.ln .mm tlS
are facing a serious situation in fond
problems.
! ger of injury at the hands of Carranza. and advertisement of any lottery, gift , Hues as much leather goods from the j
While adhering staunchly to
the enterprise of scheme' of any kind of , United States as in peace years, she
HONG KONG RECRUITS
LONDON. Jan. 1 The British ar-
y has lust rweivt a Tiril' but nic-
ttnreoue at'iinn to its strength in
... . .. . : . .( T t.
biggest cattle market in the Nier. j Carranza cause. Obregon has not been ferlng prizes, dependent in who.e r, Is. nevertne.ess. exporung ,o tur . ...
lands, over 200.000 heads being sold his Pn ,he Part Up0" " Cn',ed "' T V'""? Tdoe, ' Five t.mes s.-ce the war bgat
there every yea . many of which go to ' niatter of he orucUon of a taining ,nv list of h-than itheae men had petitioned the governor
government In Mexico and has on or awarded by means of any such lot-1 . I ,,.'fr-n, ,k-
A peculiar theory in regard to thm
cause of the spread of foot and mouth )
more than one occasion advocated the tprv.
removal of Carranza ad the subui- whether nald list contains any part
- BRIDE FINDS $7,800
: POINT PLEASANT. V. Va., Jan. 19.
Rummaging in the attic of her home
the day following her marriage, Mrs.
John Board found $7,800 under the
floor, of which $1,800 was in gold mon
ey and $6,000 in notes.
-n tn Fneland and enlist.
lima ttSnlf. ri.nli.vf n. rffrl
than one-fourth of a million Koreans j,r hoWever. they received permission
now resiainc in .iianrnuna. ... vmr-.i
tao there are 173.002. Southern Man
churia has 72.710 Korean residents.
slstslhar. Harbin, and other places In
North Manchuria are estimated to
have a total of 7.732 Koreans.
Because of the sparseness of the
population In Vanchtiria and the rich
ness of its soil. Koreans are constantly
Kin. riuriuuw i.r a. i.rmc. - i e.ai l Q rS , . ...
nvncnn ron..spM!RrT service n inicn iney
xirrni'V Monclnirla Jan. 19. Ac- j i .v.. . i..w
lutltin nf a rw.n.ni il i urv mun oa nrel. or all of such Drizes. shall be denosit-i - it.j i
disease was recent.y advanced in the . nt of ,hp ,. ei, , or carrie'd by th(. ,,,, of the i cord nr to tne .ar es nK,.re to Fne.end and enlist, but each
Leurwaarden Courant. bv the district I ,.. , . it-,.j o.... - u r. .--t nr ,ne n "" "I'lme their rconest was refused. Final-
T-lll, UlJIIlrt mill 9 l I I J IU nlw -si vm " w . w .. .
veterinary surgeon who places the,the bnrderj a niovement was started postmaster or letterrarrler."
blame on the flocjt of wild geese which )n ,he American press, nuttine the! Most of the lotteries being carried
fly over the Netherlands on 1her way I Mexican general forth as the logical on in Europe now are for war bene-j(
10 ana irom me souin wnere iney nn-, successor of Carranza as the leader fits. Hospitals, tne wounded soldiers
grate to escape the northern winter. , of Mexico and the future president, dependents and other war victims are!
He says that Just in those places it was when this question was aided..
where the wild geese make a halt on ; broached a id some publicity given i
their flight font and mouth disease of- j that Obregon. to his most intimate! MOTHER OF FOUR IN Year
ten breaks out apparently without j friends, asked that nothing of the' ST. CLOUD. Minn.. Jan. l9.-.Mrs.
cause, and he attnbues its appearance kind be done and declared himself Mihnatbesias became tbe mother orirnoTng here tn large n umvers. Many
in the district to the carrying of the most emphatically opposed to his four daughters in 1915. On January 50( the Koreans, who object to living
parasites by the geese, which spread , nomination as president, seating that a daughter came, and on December 25 at home because of Japanese rule also
them on the soil. (Continued on Tage Eight.) there were three more of them. find refuge in Manchuria.
to 'etve China, and sailed for England.
Their appearance on the streets of
I.on.1on was greeted with the greatest
interest and curiosity. Under their
khaki overcoats which were thrown
wide open, most of them wore the blue
uniform with white piping of th
Hong Kong constabulary. Their hel
mets were the winter service pattern
of thick pith, with a steel spike on top
and a steel band running round tha
'de.
