m win
1
IfclLO
VOL. 52 NO. 17
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., THURSDAY, JAN. 20, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
J
I
MAD GMT JANDLE
ITS FUEIG
Mechanical 'Equipment
Run Down Because
v .Have Found Employment ElsewhercH-Ilotten
Foundation
of ythe
Mellen Regime Crumbles and Leaves New
England Shippers In,
') he freight, tie-up in Bridgeport is said, by men familiar
with the situation, to be due to gross ineffi6iencyV coupled with
', inadequate side track, facilities
' bor, which is employed at wages
S. The side i tracks are insufficient, not only because of their
position, but because they are' too frequently not arranged for
me convenient movumeui 01 tjuipues. ; . .. - f, . ,.- .- -:, -
"y The siding alojigHousatonic avenue is a case In point. Here
it is difficult for teams to get up .the cars to unload them.
When threfe or four cars haVe been unloaded, it' may be neces
sary to, move everything-on thie siding in' order to get the empties
QUt. "-' " , , ' -' " ... ; ' . . .'' ' -yi': '' '; .jxi-
'. In the freight house materials are 'frequently unloaded
without regard to convenience, and, often in. such iaway that "the
shipper, cannot get at his goods, or finds his goods so scattered
that he cannot assemble them for convenient loading.':. . ,; :
- A great deal of the trouble dates back to the recent strike-of
freight handlers, when many , experienced men( went; to. other
work, who were replaeed-with labor of a less experienced kind.
, tfa move freight in Bridgeport, therajlroad needs more and
better help. ; To obtain th)si help it must meet the current Tate
of.wages paid ini this neighborhood. :' '-'V'- ': ' T :
It heeds more headwork in receiving and arranging; freighf
unloaded fnfo the freight house. More executive abilij is need
ed to make the best' use -of sidings;,-, '; : . " a1 ;
l More sidings are needed, and those in eing ' need to be
made" morfe accessible, and ought to bearrange so that empties
can be handled without amoving seores of lokdedcafs. Vx f
As a result "of a 36 hour a week policy in the employment
of machinists, tber company is 'said to have .lost, within a few
inonths, many of. its most efficient men, whb have, gone into the
larger factories for, larger wages and jhortJ.r Iio'uFs. ...JwJ; -K
"''''nllntacVeasHy difficult to keej) ,up i the ; rolling
; stock, and i the percentage of defects in locomotives, by1 poor
braking, or otherwise has caused the Federal inspectors, work
'ipg for the Interstate 'Commerce ;Gommission,. to require their
repair as ya eoridition of their further use." ' - . '
All of the troubles ofthe road date to the necessities impos
ed by its lavish expenditure made necessary by many years of
effort to pay interest and dividends oh great volumes of securi
ties, issued by the hundreds of millions for purposes not con
nected with the steam .road business. A ,-. '
- : The steam road oWxted and operated by the New Haveri Co.
does a great, growing and profitable business. But millions- or
dollars of these revenues are alienated' to meet interest or divi-dend-payments
upon paper issued for purposes in no way. con
nected with the transportation of freight, and passengers, oyer
tlje steam road. ' " , - ' .
.fi-AR BESG I
ami
iiOEH'.on.
2?rank Healis, "Who Has
- Turned State's Evidence,
Gives Graphic Story That
-Implicate?'. Himself, Mrs.
Mohr and Two Negro! Ac-
- complices. y .... v
Says He Was - Afraid to
Carry Out? His Part of
Intrigue on Night Before
MurderSays, Mrs. Mohr
Directed All Activities.
-1
Providence,- Jan. 20 The state
played one of Its big cards today in
the trial of Mrs. Elizabeth F. Mohr,
and C- Victor Brown and . Henry R
Spellman, her alleged accomplices, on
the charge of murdering Dr. C. Frank
lin Mohr. - ' v
j Frank Healis, ., the ehauffeur - who
bas tamed state's evidence, .told
graphically on the witness stand h.ow
he had aided in the' alleged plot that
resulted in Dr. Mohrs death and the
injury of his secretary,; Mis 3 Eiqily
Burger. - Healis had Just started his
story when court adjourned yester
day. " ' - - '-- "
In resuming his testimony today,
Healis said, that on the njerht 'of Au
gust 27 he' was urged by Brown to "go
with him to , Mrs. Mohrs house and
that he did so. . Mrs. Mohr, hei said
was alone when they arrived. .
"Mrs. Mohr'asked Brown how things
were," . Heafis testihed, "and - Brown
said O. K. She asked where we were
going to pull it off. She thought it
would be better on the Newport side'
because she knew all the, police of
Newport. Mrs.. Mohr finally said she
would leave that -to us. She ead. 'All
you've got to do, George, is to stop
the car.' She- told Brown he would
get 2,000,i that I was to get $2,000 and
Spellman L'l,000.
I told Mrs. Mohr I didn't want to
Continued on Page 2.)
- . j
Hi BUSEIESS
gadlyJNeeding Repairs, is
Mechanics, Under Paid,
Structure Reared Under
Sorry Plight.
and an insufficient supplyNof lar
decidedly under the market'in
m PLOI
MEX
-THREATEN
:fERIGiNS
:S -
. El Paso, Jan. 20. At put four thou
sand malcontents, are : operating near
Torreon, shouting for Felix Diaz and
declaring Carranza , . adherents . and
Americana are to be . killed, and all
property stolen, . according ,,to .reports
of arrivals from Torreon today.' About
three hundred Carranza troops are at
Torreon. A ' week ago;- they had not
.taken the field against - the malcon
tents, it was said, v
- , '
Washington, Jan. 20. Major General
Funston , reported toflay that" in the
fight of a detachment of U. S. carval
rymen and - Mexican - bandits near
Doyle's Wells, N. M., Tuesday, non
of the soldiers were injured, although
they were fired upon by Mexicans and
one of their horses was killed.
Girl, 18 Years Old, -Leaves
Home Because
a '-; Peace Dove Is Gone
-' Ethel Gilbert, Aged 18, of 267 Bun
nell street, missing from home since
Saturday, has been located living with
the family of Joseph Farnan in Eaat
ford, Gonn. .
She has : communicated . her loca
tion to r her parents but will no tre
turn to her home in this ' city until
peace has been restored at home, she
writes. - :r: " .
C THE WEATHER
V" Rain or rww lonJTit anrl TrvilAv
wanncr; iiitxsatng- south winds.
mm
ICMS
DODGE OWNS ALL
BUT TINY SHARE
OF ARMS PLANTS
- :
Certificate of Incorporation
Discloses Names of
Stockholders. 'I .
ONLY 60 SHARES Of
COMMON STOCK OUT
Dodge Owns 600,000 Shares
of Preferred, and 599,940
Common Stock.
Marcellus Hartley Dodge , owns all
of the 400,000 shares pf preferred
stock andll but 0 of the 600.00J
shares of the common stock of Hcm
Ineton Arms-yniun Metallic Cartridge
C'nipanyThich yrxa Incorporated last
vcek for Jti0,000.f00, A certificate of
oiganizati-ni, rr.ed rocny at the office
the secrtjr -tt- plate, shows tr.a
following- stockholders-- . i
" Marcellus1 Hartley Dodge, of New
T. ik. 40 0-0- shores of preferred
sfeck and' i.3.,H0 shares1, of comnwi
stcckf Jamej L, Banks,' Jr., Regjiald
Icborae, Chauncey f. Garver, . Geor a: ?
Bingham -and Henry Hoffman, of
Few York, eri shares each of common
stock; Frederick Jackson and C.
L,.. Reiersor. of 2sew York, five shares
each of ummon stdcK.
The officials of the company, ac-
coiding- to the return made' today, are:
-President '- - iMareellus Hartley
Dodge. '-. ' , ' V V -. "
''ice'president-;:-Sa.muel F. rryor.
of Greenwich,-
Treasurer, and. Secretary George
rUnp-ham. ' ;, ' v -
Assistant triasurers C. W. ' Many,
of New York; William, H. Nolan, ct
15rl Jfreport." ! r
Directors v - v Maroellus Hartley
DcdgeAGeorge Bingham. Cliauncej
iJ. Garvet-, Henry Jioffitian, C. L.
Keierson, of - New York; Samuel V.
Fryof, of Greenwich; and William II.
Lawrence, of Jiridgreport. ., .
lor the stock, nothing has been
paid tn cash,, l-Jt .?S0, 000,00) .has been
la :d lx- other than cash. ' -
The compir.y,- tincrporaV:d st
wtok, is to ri cvJ-v the business i-f
Hhe tRi-mingto y. ' . j-.t ynr;& Ammunition
Cow end: the.l'aft.n Aletalhtf yartridid
Co, if this city; . Tn addition to tho
manufacture of iniiilaxy wjayons and
ammrliition. tHf t n.pany 13 autltorix-
!' r.ho to en?rs -n th-e manufacture
9 utomobilej a Mt l!Hclefii.
IGGESTpABYIff'
BRIDGEPORT BORN
M THE WEST END
Long-Legged V v Lad . "With
Peculiar Distinction iuv
: rives in This City.
, v . A :,
The storks iot . oi, but a whole
flock of them -visited Bridgeport to
day, bringing , with "them . baby to
gladden two : hearts in the West End.
y They . had a hard time keeping the
new " arrival from banging its shins
against the cliinrmey tops.- It had
awfully long shinsT Most . mothers
and fathers would have been- ashamed
of "such shins in, an off spring ;but not
the West End couple. . For, you see,
their own shins' are - longer than their
child's and they don't mind showing
them either. . '- ,
The struggling etorks skimmed the
house tops.of the city, or bumpedlnto
them as the case' may be, until they
arrived at the Barnum & Bailey win-'
ter quarters with Phineas ,T., who is
a speckled beauty.". Not a trout by any
means, because they don't keep trout
at the winter quarters, but 'one of the
handsomest, looking . giraffe babies
ever seen. v:. I , ' ;,r . : J - ;
Phineas T.; the son of Mary is the
biggest baby- in Bridgeport. Besides
this it has the distinction of-, being
the only offspring ever known,', born
of a-, giraffe that was also born In capJ
tivity. -' ',' . ' '- - - '
It may be needless to say thai the
youngster was named after thelate
p. T. Barnum. , Two years ago. Anna
Louise .was' born at the winter, quar
ters and - was named for Charles R.
Hutchinson's daughter. '. Harry ""was
bori four years ago and his arrival
created, a sensation.. He wasx namd(
for VMrs.. HutchirtBoms son,' ,
The arrlyal occurred at 10:30
o'clock. Dr. W. J. - Southey assisted
the-storks. "Andy," who knows more
amout giraffes ' than any- living man,
was nurse. . ; .
Phineas T. will be a big help to his
family. He's pretty; big now five
feet tall, ; - .t-
FORTY CONVICTS
GET FREEDOM IN
BIG JAIL BREAK
Little RQCk.'Ark., Jan. 20 Between
20 and '40 convicts escaped from the
state penal farm at - Cummins, Ark.,
gp. miles from here, early this morn
ing, according to advices received, at
the offices of "the penitentiary" cdm
mission here today. . .
LEAVES $679,485 ESTATE
Hartford, Jan. 20. One of the larg
est inventories of estate filed In the
probate court here in some time , was
that of Mrs. Eliza T.. "Smith, recorded
today and amounting to $679,485. Most
of it is in gilt-edge stecfc holdings. She
was the widow of one the founders
of the Smith-Worthington Co.. and left
bv wMl many thousands of dollars toy
charitable " institutions and missions.
mp roe fin e mh h Mm m m
wm u u y mm w it hlilb il ii m m
PROPERTY IMPROVEMENTS WILL
FOLLOW COUNCIL'S APPROVAL
OF ELM STREET LENGTHENING
The new. Elm street extension plan
ned in the common qouncil last Mon
day, has already resulted in improve
ments. It was learned today that the'
Wiljiam F. Kirk Co., plumbers .nd
steamfttters, whj are doing a national
business, have outaown. their present
quarters a 260 Fairfield avenue and
will, build a' large 'factory for, their
accommodation. ' ' .
Flans are .being sketched for a three
story . brick structure, 110x130 feet; to
front on the new streeet, directly back
of, the ' present - police station. ' The
lot to ; be utilized Is directly belilnd
the Golden Hill hotel. It is expected
that the , factory front will be orna
mental and that in, addition to offices
on the lower ftoor, a modern work
ASSESSORS UNABLE TO FURNISH
GRAND: LIST FIGURES, KEATING
' PR0G2EDS nlTHOUT THEIR HELP
.City Auditor . Bernard Keating; will J
submit lus recommendations "to the
board of apportionment and taxation
when the preliminary meeting is calk
ed next. week. This is the' fourth suc
cessive year under Republican rule of
(he city ...in. which the tax ' assessors
have failed to furnishthe city auditor
"With a. 'comprehensive- outline of What
the grand ; tax list aiight, be. . , ' . r -
Considering the many yearsie liaa
been in public service and , the watch
he has kept on the growth, of the city
and the growth - of : property values.
City Auditor Keating will make Ws
own report. ' This afternoon, after
waiting In vam fori some word from
the, assessors he began the task. -.For j
ALL NIGHT SERVICE WILL BE ,
GIVEN ON MAISTREETAND
BARNUM AVENUE GAR' LINES
A"
v - 4 T. 7
Announcement was made today by
Superintendent Charles H. Chapman
of the Bridgeport linen of the Con
necticut company that beginning' early
next week, an all night trolley service
will be inaugurated '.on the three bus
iest .' Bridgeport '.: lines State Btreet
Barnum avenue) . North . and- South
Main street, and Stratford avenue.
The.' same headway will prevail on
these lines as- during the day, accord
ing" to Mr. Chapman's statement . To
day, Anen employed on the various
lines are "bidding .ln': f or the new
work. ..-.""",'!' '- . " . ' 1 ' ' '
Mr. Chapman Intended, origlnalIy to
begin the service at"'l o'clock .' tomor
row morning, but because of the short
notice and. the necessity of rearrang
ing the mtvil 1 1 wn.fi. fminil nACAraoinr
to postpone the newsservice until nextN
week. ., . . : . :,.
Recovers Senses' ,
Unconsciousness
TTneonscious for 115 hours after be
ing struck by a Jitney at Barnum ave
nue and William street, Saturday aft
ernoon, John Johnson, aged 10, of 1
Armstrong place, recovered conscious'
ness at Bridgeport hospital at 1 o'clock
this afternoon. : i
" His condition has taken a sudden
change for the better and , it waa re
ported at the hospital thisaftern'oon
that his recovery is iow expected.
Moiilton Wins Over
Adams in Contest
For C. N. jJurgeon
Hartford, Jan. 20. Major . Edward
Moutonj of New Haven was today de
clared, elected chief surgeon of the
medical corps, Connecticut National
Guard, to succeed the tate Major, Dr.
Joseph H. Townsend of New Haven
The votes were counted at the adju
tant general's office in the state ar
mory.. Nineteen officers of the medical
corps voted with the following result;
Major Moulton, 10; Ma?or Paul Wa
tecman, Hartford, 5; Major Frederick
J. Adams, Bridgeport, 4.
The new chief surgeon 'was appoint
ed to the service in March, 1911.
MILL WORKERS GET INCREASE
PKtsfield, Mass., Jan: -20. -Voluntary
increases of five per cent, in
wages .have been granted employes of
the Pontoosuc Manufacturing Company,-
Russell Manufacturing Com
pany, and James and E. H, - Wilson
Woolen Mills, effective Monday.
shop will comprise the lower and two
top floors.
The success of the iKirk Co in bid;
dng for contracts throughout the Uni
ted States is i said to have brought
much business to this cityj.1 !
Erwin M. Jennings of -475 Washing
ton avenue, who recently acquired the
old Keeler block on Harrison street
between the Golden Hill hotel and
Fairfield avenue, stated today thai" he
had not yet made plans for the im
provement of the property. -
The property has a large " frontage
on Harrison street and 'at present con
sists of a low rambling three story
structure T consisting of five 1 separate
divisions ccupied as, living '.. apart
ments and xfor store purposes." There
are wide lawns in front of the row,-
t
several years past Mr. Keating has
been obiigect to perform": this duty
without help of the four assessors;
President Hughes of the tax assess
ors said today that the grand list
would , probably be ready , next week.
He would pot attempt to estimate It.
The preliminary meeting pf the board
of f a,pjptortipnrn .ent-- wilXk itsivbabls. be
held next Tnesday. afternoon; ; By
that time City Auditor, Keating 'will
have had his estimate;' of whai- the
list will , be. without , any - information
from .' the assessors. ' '..' 1
The' administration hair notified' 'the
assesors'that they expect from them
a grand list of at least $140,000,000
an increase eCapproxipiately $25,000,-
Thiseervice will be given, accord
ing -jto-rthe announcement from 1
o'clock to 5 o'clpck, when the dailj
schedule, as now operated, will pre
vail. : n - .. ,-, "
Mr. - Chapman says a .five-minute
headway, j prevails over these lines
how, -during . the , rush hours.. There
has been much, difficulty in maintain
ing this headway, especially since the'
"pay-aa-you-enter cars have' been in
stalled here, ' He is hopeful that as
trolleymen and the public become fa
miliar with the new cars they will be
handled : more expeditiously, - Vi.'.
That' the service will be extended to
other lines, if business warrants it, i
the gist of the statement thatL Mr.
Chapman made today: He holds t
the belief that the service, at night
hould - show the company a profit,
before the company is bound to give
It. , -
Former Playwright ;
'Sued By Painter '
; ! For Unpaid Bill
I
Robert M. Sperry, f ormer play
wright and at present publisher "of a
weekly paper; was the defendant in a
suit on trial this" morning before
Judge Scott In the 'common pleas
court Neil M. Muirhead, ..the ; painter,
brought the. action against Sperry to
recover money " alleged to. be dine for
painting Sperry's house inenor ave
nue, y .' '".'.'".' ' . '
The sum in dispute is ?800,' ' Sperry
claimed the work was not done - in
Satisfactory manner and ha refused
to pay the price" Muirhead asked. The
latter took" the witness- stand this
morning and told the details of the
interior - decorating that had . been
done. The . court reserved. decis
ion. :
Ryudam is Floated,
. Mishap a Mystery
London, Jan. 20 The Holland
American , Line steamship Syndam,
which, after an accident resulting in
the death of three stokers and the
injury of four others, ran aground
at Qravesend yesterday, was floated
today. The vessel Is anchored at
Holehaven. - - i
The Ryndam left New Tork Jan. 5
for Rotterdam with 151 passengers
and a crew of 200 men.
Washington, Jan. 20 Consul-Gen-eral
Skinner at London cabled -today
that the disabling of the "Holland
American liner Ryndam from New
York to Rotterdam was "due to an
unstated accident," after leaving Fal
mouth. The despatch said no. pas-"
sengers were injured. The Ryndam
now is at Gravesend. '
Gives Associated Press Interview That 'United
States May Know How Greeks View Entente's
Seizure of Possessions Says People Are
Growing Unfriendly to Allies' Cause Be
lieves -That War Will Result ifi "A Draw." ::
, The King of Greece on last Thursday summoned The As
sociated Press correspondent in Athens for the purpose of mak-;
ing a protest through the; press of, the United States, which he
said was the only form of public opinion open to him, against
the recent action of the allies Jn their operations at.Saloniki and
blowing up th.e bridge at D emir Hissar, in occupying Corfu and
other islands which Greece claims. He said the plea or military
necessity advanced by theiallies Was'like that given by Ger
many for invading Belgium, Liuxemburg,. v - V '. .
The interview with the King was transmitted from Athens
on Jan. 13 but was sent out from Paris only on Jan. 18 at 3:45s
p. m- - ""'".. 18 at an earlier hour,(the highest French author-
ity rsonality is not otherwise indicated gave an in-,'
t Associated Press in. reply to the statements made
by the Greek King. . I , -
PROTESTS "iIGH-HATDED,,
CAMPAIGN OF ENTENTE
Athens, Jan. 2 0- King Constantine
sent for the Aseoeiated Press korres
pondent in order to express .through
the newspapers of - the United States,
as he said, his profound indignation
at j what he ' termed "the .unheard of
high-handedness of the "recent action
Of . the allies -toward: Greece."-;- , ,
; King Constantine, was greatly mov
ed as he recited' one after the other
thek long list of what he called "the
allies' encroachment onthe sovereign
ty of, Greece culminating in the occu
pation of Corfu andUthe" blowing up
of , the", bridge at letxj c. JUissar.". tr
"It, is- the-merest , eant," saii, th
King, "for Great Britain and France
to-talk, about-the yieration of the neu
trality of Belgium and Luxemburg af
ter what they themselves have;, done
and are doing -here. , I have , tried in
em
mmm resell
.DERBY 'CLASSES 0A(L
Rome,, Jan. 20- (Via London, 1 :34 p. m.)-r-Figh ting between
Austria and Montenegro' ha&been resumed.' Montenegro noti
fied Italy officially of this fact today.
y Montenegro's - decision was .com
municated to the foreign office from
the Montenegrin premier. The note is
to the effect that King fiicholas and
the Montenegrin government, have re
jected all terms offered by Austria and
that fighting already has been resum
ed along, the whole front.
- ; King - . Nicholas remains with' his
army to organize the' defenses of the
country. ,
London, Jan. 2 0 . General Aylmore's
ANDREW L. RIKER
IS IHVEI1T0R OF
ENGINE COHTROL
Has : Revolutionary uevice
For Regulating Internal
Combustion Machines.
Andrew L. Riker. head of the Loco
mobile Co. of America, a member of
the Naval Advisory Board today was
credited by the UniteejT States -patent
office with i. another novel device for
the controlling of internal combus
tion engines. His patent issued under
serial No. 800,418, has been assigned
to theJ.ocal automobile . company.
A description of the device . in the
current issue of the patent office ga
zette shows that. Mr. Riker controls
the . speed of the, .engine through an
accelerator,, governor and connecting
means which may or may not be af
fixed to the steering wheel.
It is said by experts to be far in ad
vance of any such invention of mod
ern times and that its power and effi
ciency both as an accelerator- and re
tarder of engine. speeds will be adopt
ed by, nearly every manufacturer of
gas, engines. . i
Other patents issued to-Bridgeport-ers
this week include Charles ,S. Bar
nerd, assistant superintendent of the
Burns & Bassick Co., lubricating- de
vice; Clifford W.Marsh, secretary of
tho Bridgeport Land & Title Co., snap
link for chains; George B. Thomas,
master mechanic of the Bryant Elec
tric Co., new electric switch.
MAY DISMISS MIDDIES
Washington, Jan. 2.0 .Recommen
dations for the dismissal of Francis J.
Kelley, Jr., of Brooklyn, and Thomas
H. Davis, of South Carolina, rfrom the
Naval academy were placed today be
fore President Wilson. A courtmar
tial found them guilty of infractions
I of rules., .-. '
iUii e)
every way I know toget fair play
In the British and French--press and
to obtain a fair hearing ;- from .the
British and . French public.
"No sooner had the -British news
papers attacked Greece with the most
amazing perversion' ' of fact and' mis
representation of motives than I call
ed' one of their correspondents and
gave him face to- face a full state
ment of-Greece's position" I have
given " a ' frank statement to the
French newspapers which had been
bitterly attacking Greece. The only
forum of jiublic opinion -open, to me
Is that of the United States. ,
"Th situation is far too vital for
me to care a snap about royal dignity
In he matter of interviews when the
vrj--jjfen at . Greece as an indepen
dent ioatry ls'at stake. " (. 'I Bhall ap
peal to American again and again, if
necessary, for that fair hearing which
is denied.-to:, me by the countries of
the' allies. , . 4 ,
'CContinned on Page S.)
id ta
n r
wa kV
force of Britialj troops was yesterday
In close touch with the Turkish po-'
sition at Essin. and consequently was
seven miles from Kut-El-Amara, In
JMesopotarfiia, where a J3ritish force
has been surrounded by the Turks.
' "''.! Brrtisb "Sub" Ashore ' -' '
i 'Lpndon, Jan. 20.- A British subma
rine has gone aslrore- off Holland, ac
cording to an announcement Vnade byj
the official press bureau today. Therei
was no loss of life. ' i
HOURS OF STUDY
AT HIGH SCHOOL
8:45 UNTIL 25451
' . - ' ' .
Students In New Building to
Have Long Sessions With;-1
Luncheon Period.
Announcement was mad today by
High school authorities that beginning
Feb. 7, when the new , High school)
will be- opened, a new system of hoursj
will be in force. The morning ses-
sion wilt be from ' 8:45a. .m. until i
2:45 p. . m., instead of ( 8:80 a. m.
until 12:45 p. m. 1
' Preliminary discussion of this mat-,
ter, by High school students had
thrown the ranks into perturbation,
for it was feared that such hours
would., prevent many of the students
from earning ' their livelihood while
improving ' their school education.
Meetings of students have been held
and informal protest was made.
As explained by Principal .Henry D.
Simonds this, morning during the
temporary absence of. Superintendent
Samuel Slawson from the offices of
the board of education, theseN hours
have been thought to be more com
prehensive than the old schedule,
but that people who actually earn
their living by work in this city need
have nothing to fear as provision has
been made to excuse them from
classes where actual . certificates of
work are produced. The new schedule
of hours" includes a 45-period for
eating luncheon, which is consider
desirable. . . .'.,
SHIPYARD IS SOLD.
Noank, Conn., Jan. SO- Notice tit
change of ownership in the Rickert.
lalmer & Company shipyard has at
last been made. A firm pf New TorK
brokers has transacted the business
for their clients the names of whom
are not given out at the present,
I
