Iron County Renter
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
One Yer, 11.50. Six Monthi, .0.7 J.
KATE9 OF A.DTKRTISINO
Furnishsd on Application. Special In-
ducementi to Home Patron.
Address Register, Ironton, Mo.
JOB-WORK
Best equipped Job Print
ing establishment in this
section of the State. We
insure satisfaction; prices
reasonable.
-sTRY US.
I F P. AKE, Publisher.
OUR QOD, OUR COUNTRY AND TRUTH,
TERMS-.. 50 B-Year la Advance.
caASocie,-yi.
VOLUSTalTiX.
IRONTON. MO., THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 1916.
NUMBER 33.
' " " " I II I .1 I I II I 1 1 I. ..I
You Ve hit the
right tobacco
-. .
when you fire-up some
a
jrnnce AiDert in your
old jimmy pipe or in a
makings cigarette. And
you know it I Can't get
in wrong with P. A. for it
is made right; made to
spread- smoke-sunshine
among, men who have
suffered with scorched
tongues and parched
throats! -The patented
process fixes that and
cur's out bite and parch.
All day long you'll sing
how glad you are you're
pals with "
mm
JIM
the national joy smoke
You take this testimony straight from the shoulder, men.
You can smoke a barrel of P. A. without a kick! It hands
out all the tobacco happiness any man ever dreamed
about, it's so smooth and friendly. It's a mighty cheer
ful thing to be on talking-terms with your pipe and your
tongue at the same time but that's what's coming
to you sure as you pin your faith to Prince Albert!
R. J." REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.
in mmmm ySm
. It's an easy Job lipJf ITWi
lo change the shape and ,v''V ftVfK $ 'V rV
ztjslsl SUA - M; fJkmM i
tate the flavor of Prince IfjSk k 1 i'U TESEi'i
Albert tobaccol 1 he U 1 V, .tA 1 aW-' "S. K -CT
pa.etedProccprotecU V, MS
'I' 'I
Everywhere tobacco is sold
you'll find Prince Albert
awaiting your cheerful visit
Buy it in toppy red bags. Scs
tidy red tins, JOci handsome:
pound and half-pound humi
dors andin that classy
pound crystal-glass hamidor
with sponge - moistener top
that kecpe the tobacco so fit i
Mover,!. S, Jordan, John Efaw,-Calvin
Davis, Erastus G. I. oomis, Jessie Loomis
King and V. J. Hilands,
from whom their interest in the property
herein described is derived.
It is, therefore, ordered by the Clerk
of the Circuit Court of Iron County, Mis
souri, in vacation, that publication be
made notifying said defendants that an
action has been commenced against them
in the Circuit Court of said county, the
object and general nature of which is to
enforce the Hen of the State of Missouri
on the following real estate, belonging to
the said defendants, tor back taxes for the
yenrs 1910, 1911, 1912 and 1913. to-wit:
The southwest quarter oi the southeast
quarter of section iS, township 34, north,
of range 2 east, 40 acres; the southwest
quarter of the southwest quarter of sec
tion 2S, township 32, north, of range 3
east, 40 acres all in Iron County, Mis
souri. - (An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax; bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and cotst now due on paid
real estate for the years aforesaid,
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of sixteen "and 66-100 dollars, is filed with
said petition as provided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to be hold en for
the county of Iron, and state of Mis
souri, at the court house in said county
on the fourth Monday in April next,
1916, and on or before the third day
tnereoi fittne term snail so long con
tinue; and, if not, then before the end
of the term), and plead, answer or
demur to said, plaintiff's petition, the
same will 00 talcen as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer cf said petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interests and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further . ordered that a' copy
hereof be published according to law in
the Iron County Register, a weekly
newspaper 'published in said county of
iron, ana stare or Missouri.
. JESSE M. HAWKINS,
. ; ' Circuit Clerk.
A true oopy from the record:
Witness my hand and official seal, this
sealj ivtn day 01 December, i9io.
JES3E M. HAWKINS Clerk
Circuit Courff, Iron county, Mo.
From Mr. Hilburn.
Editor Register In to-day's Shreve-;
port Times we are told that Secretary
. Garrison favors 'pompulsory.miUtarjr
service, and so do a lot of other ginks
who are able to bay officers' com
missions for their own sons, or what
amounts to the same thing, have
money to give them the necessary
schooling.
Bat why compulsory? Is it because
the workers have discovered the
palpable deception in the beautiful
posters that adorn every Postoffice in
the land showing the beauties of a
soldier's life?
Bat there is a way to have an
adequate army without conscription.
Make the government of this country
so great and good that all will be will
ing to fight for its life as for their
own. Take the snobbery oat of the
army, let the brightest minds lead.
Promotion from the ranks. But above
all if it be the duty of the individual
to defend the country, than it is the
country's duty to defend the in
dividual. Does the government ever
do that? Not on your life. As long
as the laborers of the country will
submit to robbery the government is
unaware of any trouble, bnt let them
strike and "presto," the guards are
called out to protect the strikers
against the hired assassins known as
"private detectives?" Not any. "To
hell with the miners," "save the
mules." What has this country done
to avenge the deaths of Innocent
people in West Virginia, Michigan,
Colorado, or what are they now doing
in Ohio? Protecting property, "sav-)
lng the mules," as usual. Will Gar
rison and his ilk, who believe in force,
ever respect the rights of the laborr
ing people?
Yes, when they have to. Not be
fore. And this compulsory ' idea is
called democratic. Listen to this
gaff: "Secretary Garrison told the
House Military Committee at a hear
ing to-day that compulsory service
was the only really adequate basis up
on whioh to construct a military
policy, compatible with the idea of
democratic government." "Compul
sory." That means the other fellow,
of coarse. The poor shall be drafted
(that was what we called it in the
good old days) into the army and the
rlob, or well-to-do, be commissioned
as officers Snobocracyl .Good-bye,
American liberty I
P. P. Hilburn.
Lewlavlllo, Ark., January 9, 1916.
Origin of the Joplin Zinc and
Lead Deposits1. ,
(From U. 8. Geological Survey.)
Lead was discovered and mining be
gan in southwestern Missouri in 1848.
Some sine ores must have been found
with the lead ores from the very first,
but at that time they had no value as
all the slno smelters were in the east
ern part of the United States. In 18C7
and 1809 aino works were established
at St. Louis and zlno mining became
profitable. The production of zlno
ores soon became equal to that of
lead ores and has ever since been an
active industry in that region and in
the adjoining parts of Kansas and Ok
lahoma. ' '
Fh region, generally known-cs the
Joplin district, has been the subject
of a number of geological investiga
tions. Geologic surveys of the dis
trict were made by the State of Mis
souri in 1870, 1874, and 1894, and a sur
vey of the Granby area was made in
1907. Surveys were made by Kansas
in 1907 and by Oklahoma in 1912. The
Federal Government surveyed the
region in 1893, 1901, 1907, and a report
on a survey of the Wyandotte quad
rangle lying partly in the northeastern
corner of Oklahoma and partly in
Missouri, is now in preparation by C.
E. Siebenthal of the United States
Geological Survey. In studying the
ore deposits of this area, Mr. Sieben
thal reached certain conclusions re
garding the genesis of the ores which
are somewhat at variance with those
reached by some other investigators
but are in general confirmatory of the
findings of the United States Geo
logical Survey's earlier work.
In these investigations, the original
source of the metals has generally
been the subject of much' speculation
and study. Analyses of large quan
tities of material show the general
presence of measurable quantities of
lead, zinc, and copper in the pre
Oambrian crystalline rocks, in the
Ordovician limestones, and in the
Mississippian limestones, and it is also
known that the Pennsylvanian shale
in a few places carries appreciable
quantities of lead and . zinc. These
rooks comprise all the geologic groups
that make up the Ozark Uplift, and
each group has been- considered the
immediate source of the metals by
one or more writers on the geology
of the ores.
The Government reports of 1901 and
1907 expressed the view that the
metals were derived in whole or in
part from the Cambrian and Or
dovlcian dolomitio Mmestones from
which they were bi ought up by an
artesian circulation and deposited In
openings in the Mississippian lime
stones.. The present report, the rc
suit of several years study, likewise
holds that the ores were deposited by
ascending artesian solutions which
derived the metals chiefly from the
Cambrian and Ordovician limestones.
- Among the Items of evidence cited
in support of this view is the fact that
natural waters of the. type found In
the deep wells of the Joplin district
commonly carry zlno as well as lead
and other metals. A large number
of analyses ot such waters are given,
among them : several analyses of
waters from deep wells In the Joplin
district or from the region in Kansas
and Oklahoma bordering the Ozark
Uplift. These wells draw their supply
from the Cambrian and Ordovician
limestones and their waters not only
carry traces of zino and lead, but
when they are allowed to stand in
tanks or reservoirs for a while they
deposit a sedlmf at that shows consid
erable proportions of these metule.
The sediment- from a waterworks
reservoir in Kansas showed a total of
8 pounds of zinc sulphide which had
been deposited in a year. -
Off-reY:d,naq is eftoxded by the
relation ot tne" ore deposits to tne
present distributions of the Chatta
nooga shale. This shale covers the
Cambrian and Ordovician formations
over a part of the Ozark Uplift and
acts as a septum between these rocks
and the Mississippian above to pre
vent the ascent of solutions from be
low. Over the area underlain by this
impervious shale there are no ore
deposits. , f .
Much other evidence in showing
that the ores were deposited by as
cending artesian water is presented in
a report just published by the United
States Geological Survey as Bulletin
No. 606, which may bo had free on an
plication to the Director, at Washing
ton, D. C.
Order of Publication.
In the Circuit Court of Iron County, Mis'
souri, in vacation. December 17, 1915.
The State of Missouri, at the relation and
to the use of II. P. liuruhain, Collector
of the Revenue of Iron County, Mis
souri,
against
J. W. Iverr, Arthur Huff, Elias Kemp,
Alfred H. Shv. Joseph C. Mover. -1. S.
' Jordan, John Efaw, Calvin Davis, Eras
tus tr. l.oomis, jessie ioonns iving
and W. I. Hilands, 11 living, or the un
known heirs and devisees of Elias
Kemp. Alfred H, Shy, Joseph C. Moy
er, J. S. Jordan, John Efaw, Calvin
Davis. Erastus G.Loomis, lossie Loom-
is King and W. J, Hilands, if they be
dead, detendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this dav comes the Dlaintiff, B
P. Burnham, Collector of the Revenue of
Iron County, Missouri, ana hies his peti
tion and affidavit, setting forth among
other things, that the detendants, Elias
Kemp, Altred H. Shy, Joseph C. Moyer,
I. S. Jordan, John Efaw, Calvin Davis,
Erastus G. Loomis, Jessie Loomis King
and W. J. Hilands, nre non-residents of
the State of Missouri, and that they can
not be served with summons in said
State.
I'laintiff states that the defendants, El
as Kemp, Alfred II. Shy, Joseph C.
Mover, 1. S. Jordan, John Efaw, Calvin
Davis, Erastus G. Loomis, Jesie Loomis
King and W. J. Hilands,
have not been heard of for many years
that plaintiff is not informed whether
they be living or dead; that if ihev be
dead their heirs, or if they died leaving a
will, their devisees are interested in the
subject matter ot this petition; that the
names of such heirs or devisees, or both
cannot be inserted herein because thev
are unknown to plaintiff; that the said
hhas Kemp, Alfred 11. . bhy, Joseph C
Mover, J. S. Jordan, John Efaw, Calvin
Davis, Erastus G. Loomis, Jessie Loomis
King and w. J. Hilands
were the record owners of the land ile-
scribed herein, but plaintiff lias no inlor
mation except as herein stated of the na
ture of the interest and estate in said land
owned by said
Elias Kemp, Alfred II, Shy, Joseph' C
Moyer, J. S. Jordan, John Efaw, Calvin
Davis, Erastus G. Loomis, Jessie Loomis
King and W. J. Hilands,
and, therefore, is unnbla to particularly
aesennetne same, ann mat in the event
of the death of the said Elias Kemp, Al
fred II. Shy, Joseph C. Mover. . S. Jor
dan, John Efaw, Calvin Davis, Erastus
Ct. Loomis, Jessie Loomis King and W.
I. Hilands, their said heirs and devisees
have,, by descent or devise, succeeded to
the said interest and estate of the said
Elias kemp, Alfred II. Shy, Joseph C,
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, m vacation, .December lo, lyio.
The State of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of B. P. Burnham,
Collector of the Revenue of Iron
County, Missouri,
against
Henry Schlueter, if living; or, if he be
dead, tnen Moliie schlueter, tJharles
Schlueter and William Schlueter,
sole heirs at law of Henry Schlueter,
deceased, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron County, Missouri, and files his
petition and amdnvit, . setting forth
among' other ihing'that the defendant,
Henry Schlueter, v
is a non-resident of the State of Mis
souri, and that he cannot be served
with summons in said State; it is there
fore, ordered by the clerk of the circuit
court of Iron county, Missouri, in vaca
tion, that publication be made notifying
said defendant that an action has been
commenced against him in the circuit
court of said county, the object and
general nature ot which is to eniorce
the lien of the State of Missouri on the
following real estate, belonging to said
defendants for back taxes for the years
iaif, lan, laiz and 1913, to-wit:
Lot 2 in block 6 in the Town of Pilot
Knob, Missouri, as the same appears on
the plat of said Town of Pilot Knob,
Missouri, on hie in the othce ol the Ke
corder of Deeds for Iron county, Mis
souri. Tract jno. 2 Lots 3 and i in
block 20 in the Town of Pilot Knob,
Missouri, as the same appears on the
plat of said Town of Pilot Knob, Mis
souri, on file in the office of the Record
er of Deeds for Iron county, Missouri
all of said land being in Iron county,
Missouri. '
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now due on said
real estate for the years aforesaid,
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of twenty-two and02-10u dollars, is filed
with said petition as provided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next torm of said court to be holden for
the county of Iron, and state of Mis
souri, at the court house in said county
on Jthe fourth Monday in April next,
15)10, and on or before the third day
thereof (if the torm shall so long
continue; and, if not, then before the
end of the term), and plead, answer or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interest and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy here,
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Kecister, a weekly news
paper published in said county of Iron,
and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS,
Circuit Clerk.
A truo copy from the record:
Witness my hand and official seal, this
6EAi,J 18th day of December, 1915.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron County, Mo.
Order of Publication.
STATE OF MISSOURI, 1
COUNTY OF IRON. ) '
In the Circuit Court, April Term, l9lG.
D. Edgar Kletcher, Tlainlirt,
versiu
C. W. H. Eaton, M. S. Eaton, B.Z. Eaton,
A. b. Kalon, J. S- Eaton, Myra F. Ad
mi, Flora May Eaton, I. N. F.aton, Ella
baton, Sadie Kiley, hem of A, II. Eat
on, deceased, and. Arthur C. Canon, Uc
' fendanta.
The State of Missouri to the above named
Dtfcndanti, Greetinet
You are hereby notified that an action hai
Been commenced ogJinut you in the Circui
Cu:t of the County of Iron, 'in the State 0
Missourt, for the purpose of obtiininff de
cree in partition and order of ale of the
following described lata, tracts, or parceli
ol land, lying, being and situated in the
County of Iron, and State ol Missouri, tq
wit:
The northeant quarter of the southeast
quarter, and the west one-half of the south
west quarter of section fifteen, (15), and
the west one-hall of section twenty-two(ii)
all in townsfiip thirty-four, (u), north,
f range one (1) east; and Hie east one-
FOR
half of section thirty-four, (3t), township
thirty-five, (35), north, of range one (1)
west, containing, in all, 760 acres, more or
less;
And which said action is returnable on
the first day of the next term of said Court,
to be held at the Court House in the City
of Ironton, in the County of Iron, and Slate
of Missouri, when and where you may ap
pear and defend such action; otherwise
Plaintiff's petilion will betaken as confesseH
and judgment rendered accordingly.
And it is further ordered that a copy
hereof be published, according to law, in
the Iron County Kegister, a newspaper
published in said County oi Iron for four
weeks, successively, published at least once
a week, the last insertion to be at least
thirty days before the first day of said next
Apiil Term of this Court.
J. M. HAWKINS, Circuit Cleik.
A true copy from the record:
Witness my hand and seal of the Cir
(seal) cuit Court of Iron County, this
16th day of December, 1915.
J. M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
Order of Publication.
In the Circuit Court of Iron- County,
Missouri, in Vacation, December iv,
i9i5.
The State of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of ff. P.- Burnham,
Collector of the Revenue of Iron
County, Missouri,
against
Nathan Montgomery, Jordan J. Mont
gomery, Robert M, Stevenson, John
Morris, Thomas Morris and Thomas
Moore, if living: or tho unknown
consort, heirs and devisees of Nathan
Montgomery, Jordan J. Montgomery,
Robert M. Stevenson, John Morris,
Thomas Morris and Thomas Moore, if
they be dead, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff
B. P, Uurnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron oounty, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
amongother things, that the defendants,
jsathan Montgomery, Jordan J. Mont
gomery, Robert M. Stevenson, John
Morris, Thomas Morris and Thomas
Moore are
non-residents of the state of Missouri,
and that they cannot be served with
summons in said state; tt is there
fore ordered by the clerk of tho eir
cuit court of Iron county, Missouri, in
vacation, that . publication bn madr
notifying said defendants that an
action ' has been commenced against
hlra in the circuit court of sairj county,
the ooject ana general nature of which
is to enforce the lien of the state of
Missouri on the -following real esmte,
belonging to tho said defendants 'for
back taxes for tho years i!)1o, '15)1 1,
19i2 and i913, to-wit; , '
The northwest nuarfW of the south
west quarter of the northeast quarter Of
section im, township i, north, or rango
4 east, 10 acios, in yron county, Mis
souri. . , .- v
(An itemized ktaWjmcnt in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest ami cobC now due on said
real estate for the voars aforesaid.
aggregate to tho um
W dullars, is filed
as firovided by law.)
amounting in the
of five ana 48-
witb said netltid
And unless they be and appear at
the next term of said court to be holden
for the county of Iron, and state of
Missouri, at the court house in said
county on the fourth Monday in
April, next, 1U10, and on or belore
tho third day thereof (if the term shall
so long continue; and, 11 not, thon
belore the end ot the term), and plead,
answer or demur to said plaintiff's
petition, the same will be taken as
confessed, judgment rendered in accord
ance with the prayer of said petition,
and said real estate, or so much thereof
as may be necessary to satisfy said
judgment, interests and costs, be sold
under a special fieri facias to be issued
thereon.
It is further ordered th;t a copy here
of be published according to law in the
iron County Kegister, a weekly news
paper published in said county of Iron,
and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS,
Circuit Clerk.
A truo copy from the record ;
Witness my hand and official seal, this
seal 17th day of Docember, i9i5.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron County, Mo.
( Order of Publication.
In the Circuit Court of Iron County,
Missouri, in Vacation, December' 17,
1915.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to tho use of B. P. Burnham,
Collector of the Revenue of Iron
County, Missouri,
against
Lester C. Chambers, John McAllister
and John MqCallistcr, if living: or
the unknown heirs and devisees of
LeBter C. Chambers, John McAllister
and John McCallister.if they be dead,
defendants. -
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
- Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnhamj collector of the revenue
of Iron county Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting . forth
among other things, that the defendants,
Lester U. Chambers, John JMcAUister
and John McCallister, '
are non-residents of the state of Mis
souri, and that they cannot be served
with summons In said state; it Is there
fore, ordered by the clerk of the cir
cuit court of Iron county, Missouri, in
vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an action
has been commenced against them in
the .circuit court of said county, the
Object and general nature tit which is
to enforce the lien of the state of Mis
souri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendants for back
jaxesfor the years 19t0, i9il, 19i2,and
1 9 lit, to-wit:
Tho east one-half of lots ono and two,
in block, ten, of the North Addition to
tho City "of Ironton, Missouri, as the
same are represented on the plat of
said North Addition to the City of Iron
ton, .Missouri, on file in the office of the
Recorder of Deods for Iron county,
Missouri. - ' .
' An Itemlznd statement In tho nature
of a tax bill showing tho amount of
taxes, interact and costs now dim on said
ral estaW for, the years, aforesaid,
amounting in the aggregate to the sfim
of three and 84-i00 dollars, is filed with
said petition as provided by law. 1
And unless they be and appear at the
next torm of said court to be holden for
the county of Iron, and state of Mis
souri, at the court house in said county
on the fourth Monday in April, next,
i9i(, and on or before the third day
thereof (if the term shall so long
continue; and,' if not, then bel'oro the
end of the term), and plead, answer or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance wttli the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interests and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy
hereof be published according to law in
the Iron County Register, a weekly
newspaper published in sa'd county of
Iron, and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS.
Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from tho record:
Witness my hand and official seal, this
seal 17th day of Decemhpr, i9i!5.
JESSE ,iM. HAWKINS, Clerk
', Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In th Circuit Court of Iron Oounty, Missouri, in
Taxation, DucemUer 18. 11115.
Th State of MisHmiri, at Tho relation and to the
u.e of B. 1. llunihitm, uoilector of the reveuue
of Iron county, Missouri,
sesinut
William Hc.limitana VVIIiieltn Schmit, if liviiic, op
the unknown heirs and devisees of William
rV-hmit and Wilhelm Hchmit.if they he dead, de
fendants. -
(Action to Enfroe Lien fur Taxes.)
Now at this day comes tho filainLlff, II. V. Bum
ham, collector of tho rovonne of Iron county, M t&
souri, and tiles his vetition and altidavlr, setting
forth among other things, that tho defendant..
William Schmlt and Wilhelm Srhnilt, if livinio
or the unknown heirs and devisees ot Vl'illlem
Brhtnit and Wilhelm fSchmit, if they he dead,
are non-residents ot the state of Missouri, and that
they cannot be served with nummons in said state;
It is therefore ordered by the clerk of the circuit,
court of iron county, Mi-pouri, in vacation, ihnli
tiublication be made notifying said defendants tbse -an
artiou has been commenced anainst them in th
circuit ouuttof said county, the object and (fenet
alnatute ot which Is to enforce the lien of th t,
state of Missouri, on the following real estate, he.
lonifing to the said defendants for hnrk tajte fop
the years tttio, 1H1J., Ill 12 atul Ittlil, t.owit: ,
Lots eleven, twelvs and thirteen in block VI of
the Town Of Pilot Knob, Mi.rturt, as the sain,
appear on the plat of said Town of l'ilot Knob.
Missouri, on file in5heo(lie.e of the Keoorder ttt
Heeds for Iroll County. Mis.ouri.
( An ilemlsted statement In the natnre nt a tax
bill showing the amount of taxes, tiitere anl
costs now due on said real estate for the yeaia
afotesaid, amounting in the segregate to ihe snui
ol suvea sod 40-100 dollars, Is liled with Maid iv
til ion as provided bv law. , .
And unless they be and appear at the next tertri,
of suid court to be holden top the county of lion,
ntid State of Missouri, at the court house in said
county on the fourth Monday in April next,
lllltt, and on or before the third day tiiereof l if
the term shall so long continue! and, if not, the'i
h-loro the end of the term), and plead, ftti-wev, or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the sairea will be)
taken as confessed, judgment rendered in ereotd
snoe with the prayer of said petilon and said leal
estate, or so much thereof as nisy bo neces.ary 10
satisfy said judgment, intereet and e.o.ts, be .oht
nnder a special fieri lades to be issued therein.
It I. furl her ordered that a copy hereof "ne p.ib
li.hcd according to law in the IKON ( 'Oi'KTY Kid.
IHTKB. m weekly newepaper publi.hed in sul't
eountyof Iron, and Htnte 'if MU-oilri.
JKSSB M. HAWKINS, Ufcutt Clerk.
A true eopy from the reconh ,
VVltne.s niy bend and lhci.ll seal, this lSh dny
of lleoeinber, 1115.
(DEAL) JKSMKM. H AWKINS, tl.rk-Qi-tmit
Contt, llu Wniy, Mo..
. . J
