HE VHl
BR 'BI
B EIGHT PAGE8 LOGAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH THUpSDAY JANUARY 20 1916 " " " " " ,J
Bi ' . . . , i.s.... .., . FOURTEENTH YEAR '''
I RAILWAY CO. FACES
I $20,000 DAMAGE SUIT
I COMPLAINT IS FILED
ErHBl
B , John Kirby, Administrator of Estate of
I Reynold Griffin Enters Suit in Dis
H trict Court and Alleges Wanton
I Negligence Girl at the Wheel
fl $20,000 damages Is asked by John
fl Kirby,- administrator, from tho Og-
H den, Logan & Idaho Railway Com-
H pany, for the death of Reynold Grit-
ftW fin, which was occasioned by being
PH run Into by an electric car and Mil-
V cd September 1, 191G, near Hyde
fl Tark. Tho suit has been filed In the
fl district court with Attorney A. A.
fl Law as attorney for plaintiff.
H Section 3 of tho complaint filed
M with tho county clerk alleges the
fl following:
H That at nil of tho times herelnaf-
H tor mentioned tho defendant com-
H pany was operating a largo, powerful
motor car propelled by electricity
H along and over said lino of railroad
B among other places between Logan
City, Utah, and Preston, Idaho, for
I tho purpose of carrying passengers;
I that tho safe operation of such car
H required tho services and constant
j9 attention of a person sklllod and of
H long experience in such Hno of work,
I and a person who understood the
mechanism of tho machinery which
I propelled said car; and such a per-
ton as knew tho means and appll-
r.nces used and necessary for stop
fl ping said car and In particular In
9. stopping tho same when an cmor
fl gency arose; that on account of the
jifl fact that tho operation of said car
"jH Acquired the constant and careful
ffl attention of such an experienced per-
HJ son, and on account of tho fact that
jHJ the person operating said car was
HJ required at all times to keep a care-
HJ ful lookout ahead for tho purpose of
Hj obsorvlng tho conditions of tho track
IH . and for tho purposo of discovering
fl f objects or persons that might bo up-
fl on the samo, and defendant company
fl had at all of said times a rulo which
H forbade Its employees and In pnrtlc-
H ular Its motorman permitting pas-
fl scngers or others to ride upon said
fl car In tho samo compartment as the
fl person or employeo operating the
samo, and said rulo also prohibited
fl persons or passengers riding upon
H said car from speaking to or con
H versing with such person employed
H In tho operation of said car; that In
H order to .permit of a proper lookout
H being kept by tho person oporatlng
said car, and In order to light tho
H track uhead of such car''whllo In mo-
tlon It was necessary during the
night tlmo for said defendant com
H pany at all times to keep and main-
tain a strong headlight of many hun
H drcd candlepower upon tho front
I thereof; that on or about tho first
H day of September 1915, said defend
B ant company was so operating Us
1 TAXPAYERS
I LOGAN CITY
flj f Tho taxes on Logan City property
Hj aro moro than twice as high as they
HJ aro in Salt Lako City and much high-
fl cr than nnywhero elso In tho
Hi state of Utah. Should we not wake
IB up and ask why this is tho caso tmd
BE inqutro If this condition of things
Bj cannot bo changed?
BJ Meetings of taxpayers aro being
gM held in nearly all tho other product
A of this county and a taxpayers leag-
f H ue is already formed for tho purposo
f of lowering tho taxes and it appears
Be to us that of all tho precincts In tiro
jHJ county, Logan , precinct should bo
HJ most Interested In tills inovoment,
BJ and yot tho taxpayer, of this city
Be teem to bo thoimost Indifferent about
BJ It, as they arejj doing nothing to ro-
BJ llevo theniBOlvcg of this burden .not
BJ oven attondlngj-tho mooting which
HE have been called In this city for the
BJ taxpayers to consider this very lm-
HJ portant matted
HJ Another meeting for all tie tax-
BE payers of Logan precinct" 'lsu' called
BBBt
said car being number GOO, between
Lcwiston, Utah and Logan City Utah,
trnvellng south at about 10 o'clock
P. m. said night being dark and
c'oudy, nnd said company disregard
ing Its duty t0 maintain a sufficient
headlight ns above stated or any
headlight upon said car whllo tho
samo was traveling between Smith
field, Utah, and Hyde Park, Utah,
and negligently, wnntonly nnd wholly
In disregard of tho safety of others
and in particular of plaintiff's into
stato permitted persons other than
employees to occupy tho compart
ment which should hne been occu
pied exclusively by tho operator
thereof, and permitted such person
towlt: a young Inexperienced girl,
tho sweetheart of tho person employ
ed by defendant company to operate
said cars, to converse with nnd talk
with said operator detracting his at
tention from tho operation of said
machinery and preventing him from
keeping a proper or any lookout
nhead or along said track, and at
said tlmo said defendant Company
negligently, wantonly, and wholly in
utter disregard of tho safety of oth
ers permitted its said operator to
w holly abandon his post of duty, nnd
said defendant company at snld time
and placo, negligently, wnntonly, and
In utter disregard of tho safety of
olhors," pormltted its said car to bo
operated by a person not In ltstcm
p:oy towlt, said girl who was at ,sald
tlmo wholly without experience In the
operation of tho same, and wholly
without knowledgo ns to tho mechan
ism used to propellxand control said
cars, nnd at a time when said car
was without a headlight as aforesaid
and said defendant company thereby
wholly'falled In Its duty to keep a
lookout, and wholly failed to havo in
chargo of said car a person of sulll
rtont experlenco In the operation of
tho samo to mnnago or control said
car or to observe persons or things
upon Us track In front of said ap
proaching car, as a result of each
and all of such acts and omissions
said car approaching tho northern
limits of Hyde Park Town, ran Into,
against and upon plaintiff's Intestate,
Itoynold Orlffln, who was then nnd
there, through inadvertence nnd mis
take, upon defendant's track, violent
ly striking him In nnd about tho
chest and head, knocking him down
and dragging him along nnd upon
said track .theroby Inflicting upon
him fatal injuries from which Injur
les said Griffin subsequently during
said day died.
for Friday afternoon at 2 o'clock at
tho county court houso. It Is desired
that all taxpayers will bo present.
CHAIRMAN.
CACHE KNITTING j
WORKS HOLDS
ANNUALMEETING
Tho annual meeting of tho stock
holders of the Cache Knitting Works
was held Monday afternoon at the of
fices of tho company on West First
North Street. There wob a largo ma
jority of tho stock oftho company
represented and tho report of Mana'
gor Oscar Borkman was very grati
fying to the stockholders' present.
Tho business for tho year of 1115
compared very favorably with that
of 1914, but tho Influonco of tho wor
was folt In tho knitting industry "dur
,lng tho past year as well as in other
lines, As usual, a cash dividend was
paid.
'The former board of directors wore
NATIONAL SECURITY CONGRESS WILL
DISCUSS AMERICA'S VITAL NEEDS
BBBB J-sjw -iM'Lt "7 '!whIV.''BBBh
1-MENKEN g-cHOATfc "JfoteR-'" j
Pbotoa by American Press Association I
tTho national security congress to b held In Washington, Jan. M, a and 22, under
the auspices of the National Security league, will endeavor to meet squarely
not only tho questions of need of defense, but will denl with the vital ques
tions relating to preparedness. An exhaustive discussion will present the best
expert knowledRe and opinion. During the three days of the security con
gress somo of tho most distinguished men of the nation will discuss the follow
ing subjects: World politics and our country's relation thereto, organisation
methods adopted by competitive nntlons, obligation of the Individual to the
nation, mobilization of transportation and Industrial resources, elimination of
waste and Inefficiency, laws relating to espionage and council of national de
fense. Tho plrturei show.; No. 1, B. Stanwood Menken, presldont of the Na
tional Security league; Nos. 2 and 3. Joseph JI. Choate and Alton B. Parker, hon
orary president and honorary vice presldentrespectlvely. of the leaguo.
reelected as follows; O. Borkman,
president nnd director; W.H. Pot
ty of Ogdcn, vlco president and direc
tor; P. A. Thatcher, Olof Nelson and
H. S. Hatch and tho abovo form tho
board of directors. Lon J. Haddock
was reelected secretary and Mamlo
Nelson treasurer. A voto of thanks
was extended to tho manager for his
untiring efforts nnd good showing
tnndo during tho past year.
THE HUSDON
SUPER-SIX
Mr. Hold Shamhart, manager of
tho Howoll Cnrdon Co., after driving
a Hudson Roadster over thlrty-ono
hundred miles last year without trou
bio or repair expenses, has glvon his
order for tho soven passenger Hud
son Super-Six. This car Is to havo
wlro wheels, special painted design,
and will bo one of tho most beauti
ful cars that has ever como to Lo
gan. Mr. Joffory M. Bodrero, nftor a
trip to Salt Lako City, whero ho saw
tho Hudson Super-Six climb tho Stato
street hill, through soft snow to tho
Capitol building on high gear, gavo
his order for tho $1500 seven passen
ger Hudson Super-Six.
Mr. Samuel Tllford of Richmond
has ordered a soven passenger Supor
Six.
Mr. King Hlllman of Swan Lako,
Idaho, has taken a Plorce-Arrow.
Mr. John Ormond or North Logan
after careful Investigation found an
other high grade car, which he knowa
will stand up and glvo porfect satis
faction. Ho has taken tho Over
land. Now, como on, ladles and gentle
men, let us have your ordorg early.
There will bo a scramblo this year
for tho best grado and most rellablo
cars. Our Mr. Itoss was unablo to
get but ono Overland car from tho
factory all last summer nnd suffer
ed a groqt loss, on account of not
being able to fill his ordero. The
Overland 'factory is the largoct 1
tho world. This year they aro mak
Ing 1,000 'cars per day, and wo ex
pect to got a few.
Tho great demand for tho Hudson
SupeV-Slxmay prevent us from sup
plylnB all' of "otif 'customers. t ,
Como early and tuko no chance, If
you desire u car You will deal with
a reliable onc-prlco home company,
with first class mechanics nnd a ga
rage to tako caro of your car.
Wo havo n lot of stockholders nnd
they are nil good boosters for this
great Cacho Valloy.
LOC1AN (JAIMCE &. SUPPLY CO.
By C. M. Harris, Manngor.
Adv. 1-23
A REAL, LIVE
ISSUE WHICH
MUST BE MET
Wellsvllle Officials to Enter Into a
New Contract With the Utah
Power & Light Co.
Reports como from Wellsvlllo tlint
tho city authorities nro taking tho
necessary legal stops to sell Its oloc
trie transmission Hno etc., to tho
Utah Power & Light Company. Somo
tlmo ago tho county granted tho city
of Wellsvlllo tho right to run a trans
mission lino from tho Logan river
bridge on South Mnin street to Wolls
vlllo and from electricity purchased
from the Utah Power & Light Com
pany In bulk, tho city of Wellsvlllo
has supplied Us citizens until thu
present tlmo. Recent developments
appear to havo convinced tho Wells
lllo officials that tho city can best
bo supplied through contract with
tho Utah Power & Light Company di
rect and at a recent mooting practi
cally a unanimous voto In favor of
selling tho city's entire lighting equip
mont was recorded. In accordance
therewith tho mayor and city coun
cil havo appointed appraisers nnd are
busy taking tho necessary steps to
call an election In order that tho
bualnosg may bo cared for In accord
anco with law. When tho salo Is
consummated It will carry with a
very reasonablo contract for streot
lighting etc.
With Wellsvlllo soiling out, with
Hyrum'fl appeal to tho Utah Power
and Light Company for ,-assistance,
and with tho Utah Power & Light
Company pulling a large proportion
at Logan's loadrlt may ho well "t o
Ask' atewbat station Hyrum an.d Lc
AN ATTENTIVE
AND EFFICIENT
OFFICE FORCE
Mrs. Kale D. Preoton, County Re
corder, Has Been Doing a Land
Office Business the Past
Few Months
It s a real pleasure to call In tho
office of Mrs. Kuto D. Preston, tho
county recorder, and receive her smil
ing, "How Do You Do-, Anything Wo
Can Do For You," and see tho busy
deputies grinding away as f they
really enjoyed their work and wero
desirous of Boning Cache county to
tho best of their ability by taking
euro of the lnrge volume of business
which lias been coming lo tho olllco
tho past few months. Ono can't help
admiring tho little woman who Is
directing the nffnlrs of tho olllco
when ho asks her how bIio Is getting
along nnd she retorts, "Swimmingly,
how could wo help It with such a
splendid office force ns w-e havo."
Mrs. Preston reports nearly n Jl,
000 taken In as filing fees In her of
llco during the mouth of December
and even with this largo oliuno of
business, tho work of tho olllco hns
been taken care of In Hno stylo and
j ou never hear any complaints from
nny sourco about not being ,'blo to
get documents back again when lolt
for filing. If ono lenves a deed for
recording and a proinlso Is exacted
as to when tho owner can 'Mil for
tho document, It Is always ready nt
tho promised tlmo. Such work ns
this Is suro to glvo satisfaction and
reflect credit not only on the head
of tho office but upon the deputies
and office help employed therein.
Mrtf'. Preston's assistants .ml dep
uties aro James H. Stewart, Mrs.
W. H. Larson, Miss Loulso Harbor,
Mrs. Mnry O. Morrell, Miss Joseph
ine Oroesbeck nnd Miss Kdna Davidson.
FEASTS FOR THE
FARMERS AND
HOUSEKEEPERS
MBB.
"If Prof. Elwood Mendo says It, it
is true," says Dr. B. O. Peterson
head of tho Extension Division of tho
Utah Agricultural College.
Prof. Meado will locturo on Sat
urday tho 29th at tho Agricultural
College Roundup on Tho Government
and tho Farmer. Prof. W. H. Olln
Agricultural Commissioner for tho
D. & R. Q. It. R. will lecturo on
Marketing tho Crop, on Friday, Janu
ary 28. Lou D. Sweet, an expert po
tato grower of Colorado, will address
a special meeting of potato growers
pn Staurday evening January 29. T.
Warren Allen of tho U. S. Road Of
flco will lecturo on Good Roads, Mon
day, January 31. Governor William
Spry will glvo an address on Mon
day, January 31. Farm Savings,
will bo tho subject of a lecturo to bo
given by Hon. John C. Cutler, on
Tuesday. Supb. 13. G. Cowans, will
glvo an address Friday January 28.
Miss Anna Barrows of tho Teacher's
Collogo, Colombia, Now York, will
discuss tho high cost of living, on
Thursday, Fobruary 3.
Many other exports in tho Sclene.cs
of Agrlculturo nro engaged. Kvory
department of tho farm and homo
will bo discussed. This, coupled with
tho practical laboratory courses nf
ford excellent opportunity for instruction.
gan aro ticketed. Theso cities' aro
growing and tho demand for electric
energy will novor bo less, but on tho
other hand will gradually bo moro.
If theso plants aro unablo to provldo
for present demands, what of th,o fu
turo, under similar conditions? Tho
answer Is plain, and tho facts fur
nish a real Uvo Issuo that sooner or
talor win havo to bo met.
Prosperity will not abide Ion;? with
him who abuses It, Bad times comes
from too much living for good tl'mos
only.
Bid times comes from loo much
living for good times only.
H.M. RAWLINS' I
DIED MONDAY I
AT LEWISTON I
Word has been iccclvcd hero of 'jl
I ho denth of Harvey M. Rawlins Jr. 'M
of Lonlston at the ago of 63 years. JIM
Mr. Hawllng has been for years aB
ono of tho thrifty farmers of Lewis- Ifl
ton nt ono tlmo know"n as ono of tho ,-'B
leading dairymen of tho valley, "lio j ', fl
Is survived by four children nnd tw'o I ,B
wives. Deceased Is tho father, f ,B
Clem Raw Una of Lcwiston nnd Mrs. $ B
Lesllo Peterson of Petcrsboro. -fl
Funeral services will bo licldIn I
Lcwiston today at 11 o'clock. Sft ' BJ
DEDICATE NEW i I
MEETING HOUSl I
AT MENDON - I
; Bl
Joseph H. Watklns Sells Large Tract fl
of Real Estate to Drainage fl
Company. Other Items ?y fl
Mcndon, Jan. 17. Two scsslons'ot fl
tho Hyrum stako quarterly confer-
enco convened In this ward Satur- fl
day January 15 at 10 n. m. and, 2 - fl
p. in. A special car brought one" hun. BJ
drcd or moro people from tho south- JH
orn wards and the ward mooting fl
houso was filled to Its capacity. fl
Somo standing up in tho nftcrnoon ' 'fl
session. Eldor Rudgor Clawson 'of . ,yB
tho council of tho twclvo apostles wl
and Elder Andrew Jensen, church '
historian wero tho visiting rcprosen- MiB
tatlvcs from Salt Lake City. During il'affl
tho afternoon session tho ward chap- rfifl
ci was dedicated by Elder Rudgcr Jul
Clawson. Boforo tho dedicatory pray- ' tfl
cr was offered Bishop Bird gavo a '.Bl
report of-the building of tho houso j'll
His report in part Is; It has been ''
somo twenty-two months sinco tho I 'Afl
ground wns broken for the erection 'h'Sfl
of tho houso. A commlttoo of nlno :MBJ
was appointed with Josoph H.-JVnt- ij'fll
kills as chuirman. This committeo H'l
linn had chnrgo of erecting tho build- I Ab
l n. I 41irti.1. Hint., nffni. ttrllK E I "H
tho usslstnnco of tho means of tho vflfl
pcoplo nnd tho church wo havo this ;i flj
building which has cost something iHfll
over $18,000. Tho bishop read a 'ffll
report of figures showing exactly rfl
whero all the menoy hnd been rccclv- ,BJ
cd and for what It had been expend- I j HJ
cd. Ho reported that everything was ' IH!
paid for and thero was $23.89 In tho L HJ
treasury. I '
This edifice no doubt provides for H'H
tho wants of the peoplo for somo ll
tlmo to como In alt activities, be- qHH
sides tho beautiful chapel thero is an HB
excellent amusement hall and gym- EHJ
naslum equipped with hard wood I HJ
floor, baskets for basketball, and 2HJ
dressing rooms, orchestra stand, etc. ; J$9
Tho young peoplo havo something ''Jfl
thoy can now bo proud of. Tho nm- HJ
usement hall hns 14 feot celling and , vHJ
thero Is a playing spaco for basket- i Jfl
ball of 31x57 feet, making amplo i jHJ
room j vHI
After tho dedicatory prayor Bros- HJ
ident Parkinson made somo romnrks 1 gBJ
regarding tho building. Benediction 'j JHJ
followed. An nnthem by tho choir, 1 xfl
and Prest. Parkinson announced tho HJ
conforenco adjourned until 10 u. m. ftH
Sundny at Hyrum Third wardjjl HJ
J. A. Larson confectionery oalor , ' HJ
has sold his Interests to a MrhjiBacr J i 'HJ
of Providence 6 f jBJ
Joseph H . Watklns stoppedj oft 1 BJ
hero for a short tlmo on a return j -fl
trip from Logan to Brlgham. Ho re- 'HJ
porta having been In Logan .losing 1 HJ
up a deal with tho Logan Landjand I HJ
Dralnago Co., an lncorporatodcom- j HJ
pany, to which bo sold 'tovfiarger I jHJ
part of his ranch approximate- 700 I ,'HJ
acres. Tho deal no doubt is w,j of HJ
tho largest real estate deals made In ijb jHJ
Cacho county by ono Individual. Tho HJ
amount involved totals between. $30,- f HJ
000 and $35,000. Mr. Wntklns re- I HJj
ports still having holdings of, about HJ
400' acres In Cacho Valloy. i HJ
Tho Y. M. M. I. A. Is planning HP
for a basketball team. They havo tho 13; flt
material and lio doubt wo'll ' boro fl
aom'ethlng of them later on.. With, Wmi
such mon as Ed Watklns, AinBakpr. VMm
Andrew Rold, C. Watklhir Josa Hfl
Walkor and others to ' seloct'jf rom iiibfl
' v ' II i
- (Continued On Fo Eight) isfBd
?Kb
