Pi ft Kir' ' li3B" W&ftft&r " 1
TftrvxAifttn,
flir rfr fllfhllr mirmcr .
..TTrMny probably ran. !
I'
'I J 1 I I l l l 1 I l J !'
dxKKtr KKPUnT.tcM.yur.
' fAlLY rcnt.10 LKDOKn-UU.
MAYflVILLE, KENTUCKY, THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 1010.
ONE COPY ONE CENT.
MKETS (JKIMI AflTOWX FRIDAY.
EUllOl'Ki
tho
Hurapty Dumpty sat on n wall.
f ifumpty Dumpty had a groat fall.
Alt' tho king's horses and nil
klng'n men
(an not put Humpty Dumpty together
' again!
BIG CONCERN
The. fans of tho Maysvlllo High
School., aro anxiously awaiting tho
coming of Friday night when tho boys'
basketball team will hnva n chnnco to
redeem Iteclf after tho disastrous trip
down tho rjver when It lost thrco
straight games. Tho Qcrmnntown
High School will bo tho opponents of
tho locals. Owing to tho fact thoro Is
no floor on which to playtho gnmo at
Ocrmantown, tho gamo will bo played
on tho- floor of tho Augusta Athletic
Club at Augusta.- '
RKTIRlNfl FROM llUSINESS.
jFor Kcntnrkj Incorporated In I)ela
: tr i-tit ir i J it..
nun i? in .iiiiiiiiittiiMiu v iiciii"
Icals of All Kinds.
1 1
xvhn mnrrlnd Minn Pnrrlft Almrnnrlnr nf
J1 l'arlB, Is ono ot tho Incorporators of
Uio American Chemical & Dy-products
(Company, with n capital stock of ?3,-
750,000, which was recently. lncorpora-
SJted In Delaware.
ft) It Is eald that the main nlant of the
cdmpany will likely bo located ,ln Ken
tucky, and that Judge K. C. O'llcar,
of Frankfort, VllI likely bo mnde pres
ident of tho concern, TJie company
will manufacture chemicals ot all
' kinds, Including carbolic ncld, gas, dye
stuffs, explosives, bcnzlno and pitch.
In retiring and turning my mlllhv
;cry establishment over to Miss Kmma
human, I dcslro ta extend many
thanks to my many friends who stood
so loyally by nio during many years
of' successful business In Maysrlllc,
an dalso request all tboso who are in
debtod to mo to call and settle
J18-8t MRS. M. ARCHDEACON.
XO. (ICS GETS DISHES.
XKflHO ARRESTED FOR ARSON
' AtCynthlana Wednesday State Dep
uty Flro Marshal O. T. Helm arrest
'cd Eneas Williams, colored, alias Son,
' on the charge of burning the turkey
pens of lie. Barry Rcnaker at Lewis
biirg several weeks ago. Mr. Helm has
been tnrcklng Williams for several
weeks and after a thorough Investiga
tion placed him tinder arrest. He was
brought to this city.
, Thlrty-threo carloads of guncotton,
. .valued at $3,000,01)0, passed through
Portsmouth Monday from Hopewell,
Va., 'for the Russian army, going by
way ot Tacoma, Wash.
Robert Lee Sims of Chicago, son of
tho lato Rev. J. 8. Sims, spent Wed
nesday with Mrs. R. D. Lovel and left
Iri"the afternoon for St Louis:
Representative Harry P. Purncll
has offered a bill In tho House nt
Frankfort , to establish a standard
system ot textbooks.
At i tho drawing at tho Washington
Opora, House Wednesday night No.
668 was the ticket that won the prlzo
offered by the- management. As the
ticket was not presented nt tho the
ater, tho dishes will be hold until Fri
day night and If they arc still un
claimed, another drawing will take
place.
0. S. L. MAGNATES MKET HERE.
Tho management of the local club
In the Ohio State Lcaguo has given
out the Information that .the lnoxt
meeting of tho league directors" will
bo hold in this city on" Sunday, Feb
ruary 6.
NOTICE. ,
Hats 25 cents to '$2 whllo they last,
t-frl-sa MRS: M. ARCHDEACON.
Our price this week for butterfat,
32 cents Mays vl lie; 16 cents per gallon
for sweet milk. Bring it in any day,
any time of the 'day, and receive your
checK promptly . . ,
MAYSVIIiHK MODEL CREAMERY.
The Fleming Gazftte says Satur
day night was the coldest of tho sea
son, tho mercury, touching 8 below
zero there. v
A very Interesting meeting of the
Nomads was held Wednesday after
noon with Airs. W. D. Lewis as leader
and Mrs. J. Foster Barbour as hostess.
1915 OUR BANNER YEAR 1915
BSXWe wish to thank our many friends and customers for their liberal natronaee for this.
wrlfovth year in business, which has proven to be considerable beyend waaticipatlinrfr
wsicb we are very tnaimiui.
We are now looking forward to a greatly increased business the coming year and we
' I f 1-11 I II 1.1 . -1 I .1 t f & - I II! I . !
rotb iftsiaicoiiw latest ami most impioea equipment mr nanniing your oroers, wnicn guar
antees high grade nil work and satisfaction to all, at the best possible prices.
We are leaders in our line.
TUC UACnil IIIUDCD PmDAUV CORNER LIMESTONE AND SECOND
NIL mftOUIl LUMIULII UUITLIHI1I STREET. PHONE 519.
A. A. JIcLAUanLIX.
L. X. TJEUAJT.
HIMHHIHIIII11II1IIIIII1II
Well, Folks,!
We Were Sorry You ALL S
Were Not Lucky
but there's another day, Washington!
Birthday. Save your Tickets.
We have just finished our inventory,
and are now ready for another year. We
I have the goods to sell you, at the right
rr1pc nnr nnfirn timo nnrl nttonfinrV ia
given to the selection of goods for you;
we anticipate your wants; try to make our
store attractive to you; our working force
polite and attentive, and wo cordially in
vite your patronage. Wo are here to do
business and have the goods and prices.
Can you find any excuse for going -elsewhere?
Let us pull together for a bigger and
better Maysville.
NUKE BROWN
"T SQUtlte DEAL MM"
Don't forget that the same tickets are good for the
second drawing pn Washington's Birthday. Maybe
you'll be lucky enough to get the Maxwell.
EVEHYONE LIKES THE FLAVM OF WHEATINA
MR. H.S: ELLIS
The Popular L. & '. Agent Here,
Offered tho Agency At Paris
Hope Ho Won'i Accfpt.
Mr. W. H. Harris, tho popular
freight ngont of tho L. & N. railroad
nt Paris, has been promoted to a sim
ilar position nt Lexington, and will
have chargo of tho now freight depot
which was recently completed In that
city for tho uso of tho h. & N. and tho
Louisville & Eastern. Mr. Harris will
represent both companies, taking
complete ohnrgo' of tho freight busi
ness for both companies. Tho appoint
ment Is cffectlvo February , 1916.
Mr. Harris was formerly general
freight agent for tho L. & N, Jn' Car
lisle, but was transferred to Ptirlp,
about cloven years ago, succeeding
Mr. E. H. ninzfol, who went from hero
to Paris, but Inter resigned.
Mr. Prank D. Cnrr, who was for
merly freight agent In Paris, but who
for tho last twelve years lias been
general agent for tho L. & N. In Lex
ington, will continue in his present
position, only relinquishing the duties
of the freight business to Mr. .Harris.
The agency nt tho Paris ofllce -'of
the L, & X. has been offered to Mh IL
S. Ellis ot Maysvlllo, who holds n sim
ilar position with tho L. & Nf who has
tho matter under consideration.
Since Mr. Rills has been at tho bead
of the L. & N'.'s affairs hero the busi
ness of thnt road has Increased heav
ily, ho taking tho agency mndo vacant
by .tho transfer of Mr. B. H. Blnxcl,
another popular and accommodating
gentleman, to Paris, and as Mr. Kills
has mnde everybody his friend hero by
his extraordinary accottfmodntlng
plans, It Is the universal Expression
thnt tho U. & N'. get another man for
Paris and let Mr. Bills stay In this
city.
Maysvlllo needs just such gentle
men as Mr. Ellis.
It is understood that in case Mr.
Gills decides to remain In Maysville,
that tho Paris agency will bo given
to Mr. Vf. V. Shnw, the general agent
at Mlllersburg.
REM SHIMS' WILL
Probated In llourbon County Court
jus son .it an e .oie Jien- ,
elllcnry.
humam: socinxv ntfirnm
Tho regulnr quarterly meeting of
tho Mason County Humnno Society
will be held this ovcnlnn nt 7:30
o'clock: Tho mctnbors nmf friends nrs
urged (6 bo present.
MRS. G. H. 111SHOP, Secretary.
ion' s.viii:. .
The will of the late Rev. J. S. Sims,
former pastor of the First M. E.
church, South, hero, who died last
week and was burled In the Mays
ville cemetery Saturday morning, was
probated In tho Bourbon County
Court, nt Paris Monday.
The Instrument wns written by the
testator and wns dated at Frankfort,
Ky., March 16, 1910.
Tho will disposes of a valuable'
estate consisting of real estate at Lex
ington, Ufo insurance and' other per
sonalty, and Is as follows:
"I, J. S. Sims, being of sound and
disposing memory, do mako this my
last will and testament. '
"First I dcslro to bo buried by tho
side of my wife In the cemetery at
Maysvlllo, Ky., and that a suitable
foot stono like tho ono at tho foot of
my wife's grave, be placed at the foot
of my grave, with this inscription,
Rev. J. S. Sims, 1850
"Second I deslro that my funeral
cxpenBeso and Just debts be paid.
"Third I will to my son, Robert L.
Sims, all tny personal property and
real estate, also my life Insurance,
amounting to about $4,300.
"Fourth I deslro thnt my son, Rob
ert L. Sims, pay to my father, tho Rev.
James Sims of Columbus, I nil., the
sum of $10 per month during his nat
ural llfo.
"'Fifth I deslro that at my death all
my property, both personal and real,
go to my son, Robert L.(Slms, nnd t,hat
no Inventory bo mado nor surety be
required of him, believing that ho will
faithfully carry out all my wishes.
"J. S. SIMS,
".Frankforjt, Ky., March 16, 1910."
Mr. Robert L. Sims of Chicago, ap
peared In court Monday and qualified
as exeoutor of the estate, giving bond
In tho sum of $10,000, without surety,
tbo will dispensing with samo.
Messrs. James McCluro, Henry A.
Power and Judge E. n. January woro
appointed to appraise the estate.
REMOVAL NOTICE.
I am now located In tho room for
merly occupied hy Mrs. M. Archdea
con at 4H West Third stroct, whoro
I will bo pleased to sco all my old
friends and customers. Phono 168. '
J18-3t MISS. EMMA LUMAN.
IN ASHLAND. '
Mr. Andrew J. Boyd of tlio C. & O.,
Is In Ashland today representing A
committee ot the. Cincinnati division
at a "Safety First" meeting In thnt
clt.
S. C. R. I. Rod and Golden Laced
Wyandotte Cockerels. Eggs for hatch
ing. Satisfaction guarnntccd. S. ill.
Mitchell, Maysllck, Ky.
Mrs. George Guller of Madlsonvllle,
O , who has been tlio guest of her sla
lor, Mrs. Fnnnle Buloy, loft for homo
Tuesday afternoon. '
SLICK GENT
Mnkci Clrntilim In Till City
lleimrls For llrglons
I'liknown.
niiil
This morning thoro nre several per
sons In this city who arc wiser In
hend'hut lighter In purse. "Howard
St. Clnlr." a slick gentleman of good
appraranco nnd smooth of speech,, hit
this placo several days ago and reg
istered nt tho Whitehall. Howard
mado' sovcrnl visits to merchant!!,
among whom was Gcorgo H. Frank
& Company, tho .Enst Second street
clothing Arm. After making himself
known to tho clerks nnd proprietor
be proceeded to tell tho- time-worn
story of wnltlng for a remittance
from eomcwliero and until It arrived
nocded money and asked that a check
for $16 be cashed. This was done and
then Howard liild tho n)iinuecraeiit of
the Whitehall Hotel to also cash a $5
check. When tho. bank on which the
checks woro Issued wns informed, 't
declnml Mr. St. Clair or any of his
relatives worn not known to them and
that tho checks wero questionable.
Tho police were notified, bui as
usual tho slick gent had depnrtcd to
other fields of endeavor.
In the emu-si' of the search It was
'discovered thnt the Buccaneer,' tho
1-rr.tty houseboat belonging to several
oung men of this city, had been en
tered nnd looted. It Is supposed he
aleo Is responsible for the tlioft.
Lato Wednesday night It was re
ported that tho swindler had been ar
rested at Huntingtoif and govern! of
those who "vnru touched by him pro
thero now to Identify him,
Ml. .STi:itM(J SELECTED.
j Tho Ninth District Republican E.
ecutlvo Committee nt Its meeting hold
nt tho Cehtrul Hotol, this city, Wed
nesday, selected Mt. Sterling as tho
placo to hold the district convention
to namo. delegates to tho Republican
National .Convention, and February 20
as tho date. County mass mcctlngn
to select dclCKatcs to tho nbovo dis
trict convention will bo hold Satur
day, February 26 at 1 p. in. Tho oftl
nlal call will bo published In Tho
ledger as soon as prepared by tho
chairman and secretary.
.Ar.utiti.uii: LICENSE.
County Clerk Owens Issued a mar
rlago license Wednesday afternoon to
Edward Cooper, 22, and Miss Haicl
Sna'pp, 15, both of Nicholas county.
The. bride's father was present nnd
consented to the marrlago of his
daughter. They woro married by
County Judge W. H. Rico,
WANTED.
U1IIIHIIIIIIIIIIHIIIHIIIIHI
I Sweet Oranges
I " C I j
Special 20c dozen.
5 And the best New Orleans Molasses in
'J Maysville at 65c per gallon.
S VINUUK t)KUJ . PhT2o
Mr. R. E. Bedford of Paris, was In Mr. C. II. Grannls of Ewlpg, wa
this city Wednesday on business. jhcro Wednesday on business.
...............
: EVERYBODY'S DOING IT
Cough, Sneeje, Head Stopped Up, Nose and Eyes
m Red, Headache, Sore Throat.
IT'S GRIP!
We Can Sell You a SURE CURE
Young ladles to train for nurses.
Ago 18 to 3C years. Threo year
course. Board, room and laundry and
allowance. Graduates eligible to
stato registration. Address Superin
tendent of Hnyswood Hospital.
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
Dr. J. H. Hutchison of Dover, was
visiting hero Wednesday.
Mr. R. 0. Chambers A Sardis, was
n Maysvlllo visitor Wednesday.
The Home of Quality Clothes
ii
OVERCOAT SALE!
A once yearly eve'nt involving super values in the season's best sellers. This
is ideal Overcoat weather and we are disposing of all our overcoats. A diversity
of type: single and double breasted models, in medium, form fitting and box
'back effedls. All sizes. This is the best opportunity. A purchase now is a
saving later.
Wc offer the remainder of our stock of Mackinaw Coats at a material re
duction in price. They are warm and "ebmfy" these winter days. Economy,
Service and Good LooTcs are combined, in .the8e good coats.
We carry the best makes of Gum Overshoes and Ardlics.
O. HEIGHINGBR &. COf
by
HUNT'S SALE OF IINDERMUSLINS
For twenty yenrs we lmve been holding Underwear sales, and this our twenty-first sale, hits benefited from nil our experi
ence with the' other twenty. K it means success, to search 'the market until wc 'found exceptional quality in $1 Nightgowns,
Petticoats, 2nc and fiOc" Corset Covers and Drawers, besides countless other values, this sale will be not an ordinary bug-
cess hut a pro-eminent one.
Quantities of new 30c to $2 nightgowns from the very simple to the most elaborate sort.
PeUicoats with deep llounces, with narrow liouncqs, with no flounces, just 'a scalloped edge. Prices 50c to .$.'.
, Envelop chemise, cirehlar and Irabelln drawers, corset covers of all sorts from 25c to $1, all cut for the 191C silhouette.
New gnrments just unpacked within the week. It is useless to attempt details with a stock so varied. It is only by seeing
the dainty lace nnd enlhroidery, by "feeling" the soft quality of batiste and nainsook that you can get an adequate idea of
all this "lingerie loveliness." Early comers get the choice, you know the adage about laggards. Shall we, will wo expect
you AVednesdny at 9 n. m.
$25 .Suits $15. Etcry detail finished as suits of $25 quality should be. Black, colors, plain and fur trimmed.
$12Vi Coats Cheviot, whipcord, serge, zibcline, mixtures. Late season, New "iorlc purchase.
Our furs nre few but choice. To completely clear the stock we have reduced the prices 3370, on two children's sets
50. Bargains couldn't be more timely with fur weather jwSt arrived. A largo lino of knit goods reduced to Half Price.
Sweaters, hats, shawls and storm veils, countless other bargains invite you-to come in.
Mr. John Roper of IexlnKton street, j Mrs. Sndlo Scuauor of Pittsburg, Mr. O. H. Sousloy of Fleming coun
ts In Cyuthlana; called by tho 'so- returned homo Thursday morning ty, was attending tho tobacco sales
rious Illness of his fathor. 'after a visit, with relatives here. hero Wednosday.
Mr. John Iiurko has gono to Rich
mond, Ind., where be will engage In
business.
WE
STAKING STOCK!
but there are lots of goods that we would just as sqII you at
J the price rather than write them in our Inventory Book at cost
or below. I
J -You can get some bargains in Coats and Suits this week. t
z If your Shoes need repairing better visit our SHOE H0SPI- Js
TAL. i
5 A pair of rubber heels will save many a slip. Put on while S
you wait, 60c. f
- VA
' .-J
11
-xrK .n ., JMsm Wi JK mam &
