VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 1916.
BV: E30i
EMRYKLONS
SCANDINAVIANS TO
DEPART FOR HOME
nitcci hiatcs Members oi the
Ford Peace Party at The
Hague Must Stay in Holland
or Risk Peril of North Sea.
MER CAN PARTY DIMINISHES
mentation on the Permanent
Peace Board Mr. Ford and
William Jennings Bryan Have
Not Yet Been Heard From.
The Hague, Jnn, lfl. vi London, .Tiin.
icrs of tho Foul pi'nrr expedition do
i.utoel to-dny special tinln ihioiigh
termini joi i iiM'iiiiiKi ii nt iei unf
ile Amoiicnn niombcis or tho oxpeili-
It who ileslie to return to Stook
lolin have not ot received permission
dn so and arc puzzled as to what
he will do. It may lie necessary lor
hem to make the trin across the North
Se.i
Tlio officials acting on liohalf of
Henry Ford to-day expiessod disap
Iiointnient at the refusal of many of
the Americans to continue associated
with the peace project. .Mine. Roslka
f-'chwininiei , the Austrian delegate, and
I.ouls P. Lochnei, general secretary of
tile expedition, tried vainly to induce
moie of them to go with t lie expedi
tion to Stockholm, where it is intended
1o begin sessions In an attempt to
iiiins ahout a termination of the war.
'J'hu.s far Dr. Charles l' Aliecl is the
nl American member of the so-called
permanent peace board who is willing
to make, the trip.
Harry (' l.vntm of Dos Moines, whom
'Mini Se liwimnior said she had selected
to succeed John D- Harry of San
(Francisco as n nivinhnr of the permanent
peace, hoard boi-nuso Mr. Harry had been
dismissed on account of his icfusal to
blKii a statement on hoard the steamer
t).cnr 11 on the Journey across the. ocean
ilenounelncr President Wilson's piepand-
Jirss policy, proliably will decline tlio
post
1 his would leave the Amoiicans, who
United the expedition from New York
seven weeks nao with a paity of l.Vi,
with the smallest representation on the
hoard .Mine. Sohw linnier said to-day thai
Mr I-old and William Jennings I5r.an
lad not been hciid from. Tlie Rev
Joniiin Lloyd Jones of Chicago, Frcdcrlrh
ulna id Detroit and a score of otlier
Americans will be dola.ed hen; until
j-rnruary on account oi the damage to
the steamer Rynelam on which they had
Intended to take pnssigc home
JiiiIkcn CoMiplelc Work at i:hlliilion of
Milto I'nilllp.v AnnocImIIoii Lecture
faven liy I'. (;. ('mil,,
St Albans, Jan in. -The work of the
juelges at the lllth exhibition of the Ver
mont State 1'oultry a-sociatlon was
completed to-night. .Many exhibitors
from various parts of tin- Htnte attended
tlir show to-day.
In both the cockerel and pullet lines
of Dan ed Plymouth liocks W. 15. Scott
if Harre, who had one of the best stilus's
ever shown here, won most of the prizes,
in I he cockeid line F. C. I Ivans of
jrinUon won third hen. third cockerel,
fc ond puilet second pen young, hccond
I'm old.
I. Funis or St. Aloans took all
tlie firsts bin one, losing on (ink bird, in
Hie Wtdte Plymouth Itoek ti.is-.s.
Ill single coinli llhode Island Reds
3'. W Sault of St. Albans took all firsts.
3 n hens he won every place, the HrM
j lien being the sumo wliich won la.t
ear. She again look color and shape
pee inl
In lose comb Rhode Island Herts
A R, Witters or St. Albans won every
flist prize and most of Hip other 'prizes.
The prizes In the While Wyandotte
ilfiss are about evenly distributed anions
five or six exhibitors. A largo number
went to W. F. shontcll of Waterbury.
A meeting Thursday afternoon of the
Gicen Mountain poultry association, the
Veimont branch of the American Poultry
nssoeiatieui, will be held and also in
oiinectlou a special mooting of (lie Ver
mont Stato Poultry association will take
lilace
This evening F fi. Cook of Waltliain.
Mass., ono of the Judges, save a lectin-
on practical poultry mailers such as
(ire conducted at Grove lllll poultry
j.uds in Waltliain. of which he Is man
tiger Ho relumed to his home to.
night
FOUND FROZEN IN BED
llenlj of John 'I'. Cone of ili'liolngloii
DUcowi-i'il Iij .NclgliliorH.
Rcnnlngton, Jan. ln.-Jolin '1', Cone,
v ho lived alono on a faun In the west
ern part of the town, was found dead
in bed yesterday noon by Mat tin Craven,
1 1 in nearest neighbor. The body was
Jiozen and it Is pt outlined that the man
had been dead slnco Saturday nlgllt.
The two men were In til? vlllago together
Haturdny afternoon.
Fpon Cone's request, Craven feel the
r-tock Saturday evening before proceeding
o his own homo, Sunday morning Craven
failed nt Hie house but wits unable to
gain admittance and after again feeding
1ho steick he returned home Prawn did
not visit tho place Mond-iy, but ycstoielay
boiumlng suspicion!! Hint all was not
right ho foiced an e-ntianco and found
Coin dead upon the bed Since tlio death
of ids father two ywim ago Conn had
lllvcel alono on tlio place.
OCEANS NO SERIOUS
BARRIER TO INVASION
SA YS MA J. -GEN. WOOD
Country's Present State of Unpreparedness Help
less against Trained Force of 150,000 Men
No Weakness Abroad after War Is Over
Garrison's Regular Army Plan Declared Ab
surdly Inadequate 2,000,000 Trained Sol
diers Needed to Meet First-Class Power.
Washington, Jmii. 1!'. Major-Ucnciul
L'onnrd Wood told the Senate military
. nminlttie to-dny the coast Hue of the
I'nlted States was open to attack by any
cll organized foreign nrnit, despite Its
equipment of forts, mines and subinailnes
and that the oceans formed no serious
burlier to Invasion. He declared Hint In
i he country's present state of utter un
ii epiireilncss for war a tialncd foiee of
lr.o.fxo men could intllct Incalculable dam
nge before an army could lie assembled
to meet It.
GALLIPOLI LANDING CITKD.
Hvents of the IOuropoin war. clearlv
demonstrated, tlie general wild, that tlio
sta was the best medium for the move
ment of troops and he pointed out that
a force or L'fi.feni men fully eiiulpped bad
been landed at Galilpoll fiom n single
expedition of f" ships, against submarines,
mines and an underwater screen of barbed
wire that fringed every available landing
place.
Kinphaslzing his conviction that Hoops
cannot be linprin ised to meet icgtilais,
Crucial Wood declared the fundamental
basis of any policy of adequate national
defense must be the pilneiple that with
suffrage goes an obligation lor mllit.ir?
service. Such a policy had been advo
cat ed by George Washington, lie said
anil If it had been adopted Canada would
have become part of the Cultcd States
in tlie AVar of 1S12.
W IIICN VK WKIU-: PRllPARKD.
"Only oni'c in our historv have wo been
prop.ired for war," lie added. "That was
Immeillatcb after the Civil War when w
had a million and a half trained soldiers.
Our diplomatic e'ori espnndenoe with
Prance concerning Mexico was very
brief. It ic'iulre'd only ono nolo because
of our preparedness- They weie told tn
get out and they got out.
NO WKAKXKSS AFTKR WAP..
"There isn't going to be any weakness
abioael after tills war is over. You will
lind that more male childten will have
been born than have been killed or In
jured. You will have all the gold, per
haps, but It will not do you much good
unless .ion stiffen It. with lion."
As to the immediate needs of the reg
ular army, (ieneial Wood expre-ssed the
opinion thai the fence of re'gul.n.s should
lie maintained i(t sin.imrt. Of these, he
s.ild, lO.km equipped and supplied for a
year's time should be kept in the
Philippines, another In Hawaii and
l.Vni at Panama. He urged that tlie
legulars should have a reserve system
under which, in a six-year enlistment,
men would be discharge-el whenever their
company e onuiianderM reported them as
ciricient. into a reserve to be deltnllely
assigned to war stations. Kquipnicnt
for members of the reserve would be
hi'Pl at tiicir stations and once every
two vears they would 1(. required to Join
the colors for ten days' training to keep
them up-to-date.
WPItOVKS CONTINKNTAI. A TIM Y.
(Jeneral Wood said that if universal
military scivlco was not to lie obtained
lie favored a continental army scheme
substantially as promised by the war
department, provided "It is absolutely
divorced from the oiganlzed militia."
The increase for the regular army pro
posed by Secretary Oariisoii, however,
he charactei Ized as "absurdly Inade
quate and Indicating a failure to nppre-
late the lessons of the Kuropcan war,"
partlcul.ii ly as to the proportion eif Held
artillerv. Ho I ecoinmi'iiiled that the
proportion of Meld guns be fixed at live
to every 1,'MI rllles eir sabers. The pies
cnt army standard is .",.H pec 1,0m, al
though In actual equipment the regulars
He nearer two per thousand. The board
roi'cntiy created in me war eippartmciu
has llxed on f.! per thousand nn the
number necessary.
L'.WiO.ofO MHN
Reverting to the
xnEDr.n.
condition of the
with a first class
paid tlio United
country to face war
power, tlie genet al
States was utterly unprepared and knew
nothing of the problems It would have
HEAD OF MINE BUREAU
SPEAKS TO VERMONTERS
I'rcil ,1, llallcy (icH liitercKtlng Tail;
llefnre Mule AkhocIiiIIoii in Dis
trict of CiiIiiimIiIii
Washington, Jan. 10. Fled J. Rallny,
chief clerk of the I'nlted States bureau
of mines, adiliesscd the regular monthly
meeting of the Vermont Statu association
ot Die District of Columbia Monday ovo-
nlng on thetoplo,"Savlngl,tvcs In the Coal
Mines." Judge llosca R. Moulton, pie-d-
dent of tlio association, pieslded. Sleieop-
tlcein and moving pictures were- presented,
one film showing a mlno eploslon anil
icseue of entombed miners and another
very unusual one showing the shooting
of the Dake View gusher In ?nuthcrii Call- I
fornla and effoits of the bureau's experts '
tu I'heck tile flow of oil I
Of particular interest to the large nudl- '
enco of Vcnnontors present wcro films I
illustrating the marble Industry at Proc-
tor, VI., and tho granite Industry at
Harre, Vl. In this connection Mr. Hallo'
spnko lntPiestlngly of the quarrying In
dustry in Vermont and Incidentally paid
a tribute to tlie Into Senator Proctor with
whom hn was associated for several years
as private secretary, Mr. Halley, who
a native Vermontcr and it legal resident
of Wells- River In that State, has been
connected with tho Uurenu of mines slnco
l!H0, In tlio beginning as private secretary
to tho Into Dr J. A, Holmes, that director
of tlio bureau, and for tho past year as
chief clerk.
Mako that "ad" of your n-.u eplalc so
informing that tho logk-al buyer will
bo In a hurry to see the property!
to meet. At least u.owt.mo men would be
needed, ho declared, and they could be
obtained, he believed, only by e-nmpul-
sory servbe. At piescnt there was only
7i,'h) modern lilies and jum.um old-model
weapons in gov eminent arsenals, ho
said, and up to live elays ago the cu-pae-ity
of all Ameiican plants to produce
rifle's was only ."un) a day. lCngiand
alone, lie 'said, wanted liTi.OOo a day,
while France called for two rllles In re
serve for every man In the Held.
111I.ITIA NO l.'SH NOW.
General Wood Was positive In declar
ing the militia was composed of a 1lno
peisonnel, but cursed by a hopeless sys
temunless It could be taken oveq- by the
government and absolutely seveied from
any connection with the States, he said,
It should be abandoned to the States
entirely, anil not a dollar of government
money wasted upon It.
"We should terminate tlie Intoler
able system." he declared. "The sol-dle'i-
element of the militia all want
federalization. Xn mrin who refuses
to come Into the continental army Is
to bn depenilcd Upon.''
rxivKRSAi. smsvii't-: system.
i'lider a universal service system the
Keneral said thi'io would be 3.500,000
men between in and 'J.', yearn of ago
upon whom the butden of military duty
would rest, counting on only .10 per
cent, of the men at that age. lie l.e
lloved. liowi'Ver, that every citizen
should bo held liable for some duty to
tlie' government In case of war.
"tieneral Wooel," asked Senator
Chamberlain, "an iintralneel army never
could have resisted (tcrmnny in Franco,
could It'.'"
"They ni'Vi'r would have known what
hit 'em," answered C.i'iieral Wood.
OFF1CKKS' RFSKIiVK CORPS.
A vital factor In tlio present situation,
he told the committee, wan the necessity
of building up an offlceis' reserve corps.
With lo.ooy students In the lanil-giant
I'ollcgcs under military training uuel every
i.npo-taiit higher edueatlonal instltuUoii
organizing otfieers' training unlt., ho
thought It would lie an easy tiling to
build up the foree of .r,o,0t reserve of
lleeis nex esseiry
Asked what need tlieie wan now for
preparedness that did not exist a year
ago. (Teucrnl Wooel said there were storm
signals on nil sides and no ono knew when
the lightning would .sttlke.
"Tlie developments of the last ye.u,
both to the south of us and abroad," ho
said, "Indicate that W" ni-eil to be a
little better piepareel. Tlieie Is nothing
concrete, of course."
V S. NAVY FOFRTII.
On the question of coast defences, he said
the present gnus we-re able to reach
range of :!l,fo yards If mounted for
).' eleglee tlevatlou. The trouble was with
the gun carriages, lie said, which limited
their (lie to 11,1100 yards, whereas Eu
ropean n.ivv craft weie sinking ships
at more than 17,")o yards. He placed the
l'nltei States navy fourth among those
eif the world powers, Client Rrltaln, Ger
many and Japan excelling " In
strength.
Tlie general said belligeient govern
ments were buying by the tens of thou
sands Hie TOWis mii'dilne gun Invented
by an American ollleer of the coast artil
lery, now retired, and rejected by the ord
nance bureau because of faulty material
used in Hie weapon supplied for tests
This gun, developed three ,cais ago, in;
explained antedated the one-man machine
I gnu of the lierinany army, and could in
leiiriieil and liii'd In any position by a
single man He added thai It would be
IcMe'd beie again .-non.
To show soiiie of Hie work under way
by the army, General Wood exhibited to
tlie committee the confidential plnns for
the defense of Huston completed recently
after nine months of surveying and study,
and Including a line of defense) SO miles
in length and minute in detail. Me said
the' civil engineers of the country were
preparing to organize a reserve corps to
nlil In mieh work In future.
DARTMOUTH'S FOOTBALL
AND BASEBALL DATES
W ill .i( Meet Vermont nn Crlillron
Thin Venr HnHi-lioll Gnmc May (I.
Hanover, X. 11., Jan. 10. Dartmouth's
lilbj football schedule announced to
night idioms that Tufts, Vermont and
Amherst, wnleli havo formerly Hguml
an opponent!) of Ihu Green, have been
' dropped.
i Lebanon
while New Hainishlic State,
Valley, Huston College, George-
town and West Virginia have been added
to tlie list
Dartmouth's baseball schedule an
nniinced to-night contains games hero
with Howdoin, New Hampshire State,
Massachusetts Agricultural, Hi own.
Georgetown, Vermont (May 0), Tufts,
Williams, Wesleyan, Ronton College and
games nbrouel with Fordhain, Now York
I'liiversity, Paterwin, Crescent A. P.,
Setan Hull, Columbia, two games;
Massachusetts Agricultural, Wesleyan,
Yule, Piinceion, Harvard, lirown, Holy
Cross, Tufta and Williams,
Sprins Grove Meetings.
Mlddlebury. Jan. 19, The 47th mlil-win-tcr
meeting of tho officers of tho Spring
urovo uanip (Jrounil nhsocintlon was
held In tho .Methodist Kplsropal Church
to-day, President C. S. Pady presiding,
with II. !. Reach ns secretary. Prayer
was t.ffeieil by tlie dlstlh't su)erluleud.
rut. the Rev. H, M. lCcnt of Rutland.
It was vuled that the iiiimuil meeting
under the iiamo of tho New Haven
assembly bo hold August 11 to August
20, Inclusive.
OPPOSES SENDING
MORE CANADIANS
TO EUROPEAN WAR
Senator Choquette in Dominion
Parliament Declares Soldiers
Had Better Remain at Home
if Invasion Is Threatened.
USEFUL FOB DEFENSE
Looks to the United States for
Help if Germany Should Win
War Senator Says Most That
Could Happen Would lie Inde
pendence of Canada.
Ottawa, Ont., .Inn. 1!. If ICiiKlnnd hud
not lllrted with Ocrniaiiv pi lor to the
formal declaration of war, but hail taken
a firmer stand with regard to the security
of Hclglum and not hd flerinany at the
outset to doubt she would support the
entente agreement, .Senator Clioqiii'tte of
Quebec declared in tho upper House of
Parliament, to-dny, there would have been
no war so iar a.s Kngland and her
colonies Were ennccrneel.
He was iipHised lei the sending of more
Canadian troop") to the front, adding
that If It weie true, as Senator l.oughced
had said, that tlieie was danger of an
Invasion of Canada, It would seem tile
part of wisdom to keep Canadian soldiers
at homo for defense.
Senator Choetictte' declaied that even In
the event of Oeimany winning tlie war
lie did not think Cunadn would be taken
by Germany, with tlie Fnltcd Htatcs, pow
erful and friendly as Canada's neighbor.
Tlie most that could happen, he said,
would be to make Canada independent.
He held that Canada should not lie maile
to pay the oveieas forces she had alrciiilv
contributed, Inasmuch as the command
of the. troops hud been handed over to
tlie Hrltlsh. Highly per cent, of the first
fence', he declared, were Tiritlsli-born. He
added that it looked as if HngllsliniPn
came over to join the Canadian forces be
cause Canadian pav was four times higher
than the pay of tlie Rngllsh army.
Senator ChoeiuctteVs address was made
during tiie elobale- on reply to the ad
dress from the throne. To-night tlie Sen
ate passed tlie aeldtefi from the thionu
without division.
Senator Heicourt, repljlng to Senator
Choquette, declared the emotion shown
by tho Duke of Coniuiught In tlie
speech from the throne reflected tlie
feeling of Canada. Ho said no man of
sense believed that IJugland was In
any measure i (-sponsible for tills war.
Tlie business of to-day in Canada,
ho aelded, with emphasis, was to pro
vide' men and money for tlie gient
cause In which Canada and Rrltaln
and their allies were engaged: tlieie
should bo no limit fixed upon Hie con
tributions of either men or money, but
tho need of the situation anil ability
of Canada to contribute.
ANNOUNCES DECISIONS.
Much Tried lllvnrrc Ci' IIIohiIshciI
tYnhlnictnn CfHinty Court.
Montpeller, Jan. 10. Judge R.
In
1,.
Waterman announced tlie following de
risions In Washington county court this
afternoon:
James Canning s. Martha Canning,
petition for divorce, contested, dismiss
ed; Xed A. Alexander vs. R. Lillian
Aloxander, divorce for desertion, grant
ed, exceptions by defendant: Arthur C,
Foster vs. Helen Foster, petit Ion for
absolute dlvnree, granted, $f, a week ali
mony allowed for support of e-hlld,
C.iolev, Wilght Maniifaetui lug company
vs. Fasteni Fruit and Nut Orchard
company, judgment for plaintiff: Her
tha Wood vs. town of Plalnlleld, to re
cover for services as school teacher.
Judgment for plaintiff to recover $3'.
The Canning ense wns especially Inter
esting inasmuch ns it had been tried
twice and sent back rroin the supremo
court.
N. S. FOOTE PRESIDENT.
Addison County Fifth nnd Gnmr League
IIhk .Mlel-Wlnlcr Mcellnu.
Mlddlebury, Jan. 19. Tho following offl
rers of the Addison County Fish and
Game League wero elected to-day at tho
mid-winter gathering: 1'rosldent, N. S,
Foote of Mlddhibury; vice-presidents, II
K. Freegard of Whiting, C. II. Smith of
Hildport, G, S, Fair of Hrlstol; sectotary,
r C Smith of Mlddlebury; treasuier, W,
II. Wheeler of VergonneB; nnd auditors,
J. G. Page of HriHtol and F. W. Allen of
Fcrrisburg. At tho banquet held Ibis eve
ning Judge FianK J., i-isn piesieicd as
toastmnstcr.
THIRD DEATH IN FAMILY
WITHIN TEN DAYS
MynterloiiK Mnlmlr l.jndon l-'ninlly
HnlTIrN PhjiilelanM.
Dynilnn, Jnn. in. I He ele-uq of
Francis Carter, nged IS, this afternoon
Is the third In tlio Carter family In ten
days. The family Included Mr. and Mrs.
Henry J. Carter six sons and one dnugli-
tcr.
They ocx'iipy a farm In l-.nst Lyndon,
All except Mrs, Carter were stricken with
an Infection of the tluont which baffled
local physicians. In Mr. Carter'ii case,
pneumonia developed ami no died January
10. Tho oldest son, Ora, aged 21, died Mon
day ot this week nnd tlio next oldest
Francis, lived until this uxteinoon, The
doctors aro confident of tho lecuvery of
tlio others who are 111.
i,-,,( gi:t raisi:.
New lledford. Mass, Jan Hi - Fifteen
thousand operatives am affected by
waeo udvuncii of live per cent., nunounceel
almost generally by cotton yarn mills In
this tit)- to-day.
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
ADDISDM COUNTY
MIDDLEBURY.
Albert J. Houghton hsin returned from
Walllngford, whero ho has been vlsltlnsr
at tlie homo of his p.ticuts, the Kov. and
Mrs. O. R, Hougliton. - ICelw.ird Diagon,
who wan e'ltllcd bete last week by tiin
death of his grandmother. Mrs. I.ue-y Dra
gon of Ulpton Inn letnrnod to Richmond,
Aflcu llfilrrn Mel li ttil 1 1eU- nfler a severe
l,bren' weeks- llli,es. In the latter n.irt eif I
which she was threatened with pnetimo- j'ff O"" A. Smith and Deputy Sheriff C,L
nla. Is Improving, and Is now uhlo tn Blt;W!"J HlnKar.K. He was still .irrayed In
up a halt hour each eLay.-lrc cutting wan """"nl1 "l "'c a""'i which ne
bosun on a large pcnle Monday and the ' ,v'"0 down lo Shorchnm on his trip fror.i
New York Dairy company nnd Charles A. j Canada and did not rccm to be dcaply dc
l.vmim hnve lnr"e forces of men .it work , Pressed over tlie sudden tuin for tie
em their plnnts The Ire Is now fully a
foot thick and Is growing thicker every
day. Miss Mailnn Crosby after a few
days' Illness with the grip wan able on
Mondnv to ics-iniio her duties at tile high
school. -Mr. mid Mr.-. John R. Finnklln
of Oswego, X. Y., are spending a few
days In town. Mrs Daniel Raymond Is
confined to the liouso with tho grip and
Mr. Raymond, who has been ill for a long
time, Is still confined to tlie bed. Henry
I.oildervlllo of Keesevllle, X. Y., la ill
town. C. F. Flnek of Hoston Is in town
on a few days' stay. Ilorton Jones of
South street is seriously III at his home.
Mrs. Nellie Tottlnghrini of Sliorehnin -a
visiting at the home of Mr, and Mrs. not
ion .Tones. Mrs. Zephyr Honlla nnd sister.
Miss Helen I.npan, havo returned from a
few days' stay in Rurllngton. Tho
annual meeting of the I .a i alien so
ciety of the Congregational church will
be held nt tlie home of Mrs. Frank A.
Fnrnsworth next Monday afternoon at
S::;o o'clock. M-. and Mrs. George Mor
comb have returned from Salisbury, where
they were e'aileel by the death of a rel-i-tlvc.
llebert Sumner has sold hi" farm
on Case street to William Hot ton. Mb"
Ruth Pnnilberg lias returned from Proc
tor, wheie .-be has been for a week. Mis.
John Ryan rniertalned Hie Hpicurcnn club
at her home on South Mnln street Mon
day. Whist was played. Mrs. W. .1. Wood
winning first prize. Mrs. K. P. Seymour
s.econd piize, and Mrs. Mury Hoylan tlio
consolation piize. Refreshments were
served. Mrs. Wllllnni II. Morcomb, Sr.
who has been visiting In town for a week,
has. returned to Hrlelpai t. Charles Sever
ance Is in Provident e, R. I., on a business
trip. Monday, market day, eggs brought
SI to "J cents and baiter 'S to "I cents.
Miss Alice P. Rniley of Conwav, Mas-.,
Is s;tlng In this vbliiltv. Samuel Geir
dim Is danaeroiisly ill with pneumonia
at his home on Seymour street. Ili-bcrt
Plge iu, whose right leg was broken be
twe i the knee and ankle In a ftiendiy
scul'ie Hundav, Is impi oving rapidly.
Friends in Floilda have sent wend of a
reception and banquet given recently at
liordeiiliiwn bv Mr. and Mlis. W. K.
l-'oste-.' of Midrllebiiry. There were recita
tions old-time stories, and music, Mr.
Foster. Mr.), Kdlth Onff and .Miss Ruth
Dow relating the tains of the olden times.
i'ho:;,- present of the Mlddlcbuty colony
cor Mr, and .Mrs. i . n. sneiiwicie, .mis.
Kdlth Goff and her daughter, Anna, Mr.
and Mrs. r llfford Russ'-tt Mr. and Mrs.
Don c. Rls-doii, M-. and Mrs. Gun P.
Uaselton, Mr nnd Mrs. Charles D.
Sunn," r, the Misses Ruth and llnzel Dow.
Ch-ntcr . Dow, D A Stevens, Rimer
K. Sunnier. John Shea and J. R. Day.
Franl." J. Donahue has gone to Rutland,
where for seseial weeks lie will be en
gaged in making purveys and limping out
the iltv for tlie benefit of fire insurance
compmles and the water works svstem.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles HHey of Hildport
were quests of trlcnils In town I ucsiiay.
W. 1",. Harrison nnd Frank Pccor of
Rutland have arilied to nssHt In the
finishing wink on the new college build
ings, on -which n largo force of men is
now emploveil. Mi s. William H. Mor
eoinb, Sr., who has been visiting for a
week at the home of her son, William H.
Mor omli, Jr. In Rutland, returned Tues
day-Miss Marjorle Haldwln baa return-
el from Vergcnnes, where she lias hit-n
for i week. Mrs. lyouls Goulctt has gone
to West Cliazv, N. Y., to visit for a few
weeks'. V.. P. Ryder lias purchased the
Charles Piper placet on Seymour stieet
and i '.II take possession soon. Jim. II.
G. I-'ninhnm of Sudbury Is vlfdlim; her
patents, Mr and Vli-s. Ilorton Jones--
Mrs. Julius T Williamson, who w,,s in-liir-d
by a fall mi the Ice lal week, is
recovei nig i nnri, s inngiinui is ennuiie.!
Iiv ll'-iess Mis fi. I '.. Abury is 111. - Mi
anel Mrs. F A Vondlo ot Slieirch.im r.i -
VERMONT BOTANICAL AND
BIRD CLUB PROGRAM
A lllillill .Meeting Will lie Held In
ftut-
land Friday unil aunlnt-.
Rutland, Jnn. lO.-Tho program was Is
sued to-1ny for tho annual meeting or
tho Vermont Rotonieal and Hlrd club
which will be held In this city next Fri
day and Saturday, rneiuliors of mo
faculty of the University of Vermont and
Mlddlebury Collego nnd of tlio Massa-
cliusitts and Connecticut Hotnntcal mi
cietles being selu'ilulevl lo speak in addi
tion to members of tho local club. The
following papers will be given:
"NuW Plants for the Floia of Ver
mon " Mis, L'nilly II, Toi ry, Northamp
ton, Mass.; "Ono Afternoon's Rotanl '.lug,"
airs, John J, Flynn, Hurlington; "Notes
on Plants of West River Valley," Lestou
A. Wheeler, Townslicnel; "Tlie Hlrds'
Christmas Tree," Mss Aelelaldo L. Den
ton Saratoga, N. Y.; "Ropoit of Nature
Clubn In Vermont," Jay G. I'nderwood,
Ilaitiand; "Work Donn by llartland
Naturit Club on Song Sparrow," Mrs. A
H. Morgan, Woodstock; "Riitnnlzlng in
St. Johnsbury In lOl.'i," Miss Inez A. Howe.
St. .'olinsbury; "A Short Report on the
Latest Vermont 1 lepaticae," Miss Atlliio
1-1, Loipu7, llartfoiil. Conn,; "Notes on a
Trip to California," Dr. l-lzra A.
Hralneiil, Mlddlebury College: "Germina
tion of Pollen of llyblld Hlncleberiies,"
Prof, A. K. Peltersoii, Hurlington; "Re
port i f a Course on Hlrd Study at tho
FnlveiKlty of Vermont .Summer School,"
tf'rof. II. F- Pet kins, Rurllngton; "Forma
tion of "11 from Hocks," Prof, G, II,
Purkins, Huillngtnu; "A Study of Light
In Forests." Pi of, CI. P. Hums, Hurling
ton, "Discussion of Certain Specimens of
Plants." C H. ICiiowlton, lllnghani,
.Mipm.
On Ft May evening Professor Ruins will
give a lecture at the Rutland Woman's
i lull looms on "Trees and Shrubs of Vei
mont and Their I'se In Landscape
Gardening." Tho Renoral meetings will
bo held at the Hotel Hardwell.
gtUMts at the. Mlddlobury Inn.-i:. J
Xov.il:, who has operated a shoo shop
In the Kidder block for Fcveral yetrs, has
move! to tlio Crano liulldlng and now oe.
euplcrf the room.s recently vnratril by
W. J. AVeod Miss Jenne Eddy leaven
this wiek for llochisti'i, X. Y , where .die.
was called by tho Illness of a relative.
John Donah, a, Shorcham man, who was
sentenced In tho Addison eountv court lo
fcrvo from six to seven ye.na a' hard la
bor In the Stato prison at Windsor, t.ai'
ed for that Institution on the eight o'elo
,r,nln l''rkUl ""Tiling, "1 Kh.j--
worse which IiIb a f falls had taken.
The rcnvillis of tho Rev. Ge'eirge Wol
eott Rrooks were brought here Wed
nesday from Sudbury, Muss, where he
died Monday, and tin; binlal will be In
the- family lot In tho New Haven Mills
cemetery, but tho time Is not ;-et set
tled. Mr. Hi-ooks was the son of Sam
uel Xoble anel Susan Charlotte (Rat
tles) Hreioks and was born in Mlddle
bury July L', 1S.12. and was therefore
in the filth year of bis age. He wis
fitted for college in tho Kimball Ciiioti
Academy and was graduated from Mld
ellebury In the class of 1S7J, being a
Phi Hi'ta. Kappa man. For two yesirs
after graduation he taught in the high
school at St. Albans and then for two
yi'iirs studied In the- Fnlon Theological
Seminary, for two years more at tlie
Andover Thi'ologlcal Seminary from
which he was graeluated in 1S77, in
which year he was ordained as a Con
gregational minister. His first pastor
ate w.-is the Congregational Church at
Wooiisocket, R. I, which lasti'd fiom
1S77 to lSSS, lie next held pastorates
in Hoston until 1 Sim, anel at the time'
of Ills death was pastor of the Congre
gational Cllillch at Sudbury where he
died. He leaves a widow, one grown
sin, and a hrotlier, Charles W. Hrooks
of Miildlobury, besides other relatives.
Tile annua! meeting of the Ladles'
Aid society of tlie Methodist Church
was belli at the home of Mrs. D. 11.
Corkran Tuesday afternoon. There was
a large .attend. nice The reports of tile
officers showed that the society was in
a good condition. Tlie ladies during;
tlie year have paid out Sln'i for dilfer-
e-nt things In aid to the church and
they still have a good balance lu the
treasury. The- following officers wore
e'lecti-d: President. Mrs. W. S. Huntley;
first vice-president. Mis. II. 11. Martin;
second vice-president. Miss Mary C.nly,
recording sce'retary, Mrs. 11. M. Rain;
financial seeietnry, Mrs. J S Morgan;
treasurer, Mrs. D. I.. Robinson; chalt
ninn of executive committee, Mrs. D. II.
( orkran. At r,:Si) n clock i line supper
was served to the members of the sei
ciety and their husbands. Mrs. Will
lam II. Jackson has returned from
Springfield, Mass., where she has spent
a fow weeks with her son, Dane Jack
son, nnd family. Mr. and Mrs. Ileburt
11. Peacock have returned from a 10
days' wedding trip In the southern part
of the State. W. If, Durfey has gone
to Hurlington for a few elays' stay on
business. Miss Hentrlce Richardson
and Miss Stella Rruseau have gone to
i Vergcnnes lor a few da vs. Mr. and
Mis. J. H. Ingham or North Tlllililielce,
'who for two months have been
i visiting at the home of Mrs. Inglvims's
sister, Mrs. Walter .1. Rose, left Wed
nesday for Xew Haven. Conn., to pass
the remainder of tlie winter with other
relatives. Messrs. Geoige A. H.icon,
George McDonald, II I ram Aldrich and
James I-'. Lmlgnn of Springfield, who
have been hero for pet vera 1 days on a
business visit, left Wednesday for
Manchester, X. H. Thomas W. Mar
shall and his son, Henry L Marshall,
of Troy, X. Y. aro visiting in this vi
cinity. Miss Nellie Mulcaliey of Sud
bury Is visiting In the east part of the
town. Max Wolf of New York city, a
former resident of Mlddlebury, is mak
ing a few days' visit in town. C. J.
Lowell went Wednesday afternoon with
ills son, Harry Lowell, to the Mary
Fletcher hospital, Hurlington where he
will undergo an operation fen- appen
dicitis. VEKCENNES.
Mrs Manilla (Danl'tsl Lap.nti. wnlov
Julius l.r, nolle, died Tli.i.siny morn
ing .it lii-i' home on North I-" ' . nv street
Continued on ynge Itvo)
IMMENSE ELECTRIC
POWER DEAL MADE
't'nklnc Out Purl Henry, X. V-. Light
mill Pom it Comniiy.
Rutland, Jan. 10. :i Immense electrl
power deal which involves upwards of
j;,0iVi coo and which includes the tnklw:
over of tile Port Henry Light, Heat nnd
Pow-tr company, the Installation of wires
and lighting for over peven miles ot terri
tory In Crown Point and adjoining towns,
together with the construction of a
".("J 11. I'. power liouso, a wooden stave
and Mi-el pipe line 5,200 feet In length,
thus liicivnjilni; tho static head of the
ooinpi.nv'H power source- fieun V ti v
feet viis completed to-d iv when the si.ic:
lu the company owned by Wallace Murray
of Sar.tnac Lake, N. Y, was purcluscil
by J. Monroe Dyer Ar Co. ul 121
Hroad street, New Yorlt city, a Ma
financial house of Interests which own the
Hortonla Power company of Hit:. ii
Tho following stockholders were okct
cd directors. F. M. Dyer. W. O. Allloon
and A. P. Iiishor of Now York city, N,
M. Marshall of Mnlone, N, V., Irving M.
Frost of 111!-- city, Ge-orge Foote, D. A.
Rich and C. F Carpenter of Port Iler.ty,
X. V., and tin- board organized by elect
ing tlio following olllccrs- Itjesldcnt, Mr.
Dyer; vlee-pieslilent, Mr. Frost; I reap
urer, D. A. Rich, niperintcr.dent, Mr,
Carpenter.
lu addition to tlie lights owned by tho
Port Henry company the new Interests
havo acquired additional lights and they
havo alrcaely placed rontra-ts with tha
Nntlonal l'lpo & Tank company ot Port
land, Ore., tlie Lupins Steel company ot
Hoston, and tho S. '.Morgan-Smith rum
puny of Yoik, Fa., and the Hoston olllce
of the General Klectrlc company for the
hydro-elect rie parts, tlie power iiout-it
building to l'C built by Ficd H Reming
ton of this eit.v, and the Insinuation of a
1,000 hum-power 1 1 dro-clecti I" equipment
If tho "ad" interests you, ro and In
spect thai uart'oln ami dt it promptly1
RUSSIANS AGAIN
AUNGH
OFFENSIVE
ON EASTERN FRONT
Second Wattle of Bessarabia It
Now in Full SwinijCzar's
Troops Attack Austrian Line
at Four Points.
ACTIVITY IN THE CAUCASUS
Russians and Turks Tell Widely
Different Storiey as to Result
Announcement That Monte
negro Has Broken OH" Peace
Negotiations with Austria.
London, Jan. i3-.ftur otuj a iJluh
pnuse since the conclusion of the ' No
Year's battle" on 'lie eastern front, the
Russians nguln have begun a stiong of
fenslve against the Austru-IIungaiians
on the Hessarabian frontier ea.t of Czer
nowltz, capital of Hukowlna.
Vienna had loiccast that tlie second
pha.-o of the battle in this legion un"
imminent by the announcement that tit
Russians) weie throwing btrem- relnf'ir-e-nicnts
into east tlullrin
In tho Initial otlen-lw; of what promhl
will be termed the "second battle'
tlio Russlaifb launched with numerous col
umns four attacks near Toporoutz and
Hojnn, but, according to Vienna. thc
were every whole lepulsed.
Tlie Get mans) have attacked Russian
liases at Tarnopol, Ua.-.t Gallcld. with an
air squadron.
While tlie Turkisli war office ays'iti
that the Russians lu tin; Caucasus in.- e
abandoned their offensive along the ej
tire fi out of nearly 1M miles, owing t-i
tlie rciiifoitements of tlio Oliomans an I
their assumption of a violent otfen 'v,
the lalost Hussion official eotinnunii..ilion
describe!! the Turkisli army In tills re
glon as having been ellsm gnnlzrd and
dislodged from a strong position ox
tending over 07 miles, the Turkisli retroai
taking on tlie character of a parle
stricken Might. Several Turkisli unlU-
tlie communication adds, were almost
annihilate d, hundreds of bodies eoverlii.'
the Held of battle.
With the announcement that Montcrc
gro had bioken off negotiations for peace
with Austria-Hungary comes the offleia"
statement In a Paris newspaper that
King Nicholas and his family and suite
already are on their way to ltal. It
is presumed that with tlio severing of
tlie peace pour parlors tho Austro-llnii
garlans again will take up w here tl-e
left off tlie campaign of crushing t u
little kingdom.
Although artillery bombardment", n in
ing nnd eoimter mining operations au.i
aerial attacks continue almost excl'isivi'
on the western line in France, the Gei
ni.ius report the . capture of trcnehc
along tlie Yser river. L'ntente nllie i
air men have dropped bombs on Mctz
and Arnavlllc, doing homo material il.im
age
Several attempts, bv tho Austrians to
npproa h Italian positions on tile Tol
niino sector and near Oslavia were io
pulsed. Hombardments have pro-ailed
elsew ln-1 e.
Another war council of the entente
allies, attended b tlie Hrltlsh .mo
Fn nch members, has been hold in Lou
don. Nothing Is known eonceining tin
council except that It was laid fov tile
illsciitslon of plans for fin titer prosecut
ing tlio v :u
Gtent Hntiiin lias
informed toe Fill
Ambassador Page
ted Slntes through
that "innocent" mail
taken from sle mi
niithor Hie s is int
elelavel, but rin-
ers
tlio Hrltlsh
warded In Mi"
M-ill aid p.-n-el
iieit e 'uh d at
lldllresse'. lin've il l'e 'l
III";', ni.itti r v. r ',
inr.o-'eti' ' "-u g be' 1
for the prize court.
Tin- total casiiallli-s the -jiniie) Ger
man ainij for the war milliner 2,VA7
ae cording to an announcement made in
tho Hemse of Commons by tho p.ir'fa
inenlary uneler-seerotary for wat
PORTLAND GIRL SUES
RUTLAND COUNTY MAN
SIIhh Mr.vllr Webb Wimt-i PKMino from
XV. F. Carter of I'lllsforil for V1--leged
llreiicb of l'roiiil.c.
Rutland, Jan. 1!' A bre ich of prom
ise) suit has been brought against Will
iam Carter uf Plttst'ord and Hoston
Mass , In which Mls .Myrtle i' Webb
uf Portland, Me, se-ks to iccever S'
000 litintt Iialni from th.- iitl.mil count
inati, wlio is t.vll U-io-. ii ihrougtii- '
the State, having luvii iloiely Idor.t fi el
with tin; Vciiiiont State I i.ali lin-n's .is
soel.itiiin The c.se '.s btought l)v til
firm or Lawrence. Lawrence and Stn'
ford and it is returnable ,t the IPf i
term of Rutland county court.
Mr Carter wns for two car!t prosi
drnt of tho Rutland Fair nsnociatlon, la
at present a vice-president of th- :i!'
Hocliitlon .lid ho Is n-lao a memb. r o'
tho Rutlnnil Country rlun and a I- into
of Rutland lodge of Illks
The papers allege tin'. Miss eh , on
September i, 1D11 In tho city of Ho- hi
was ualted for her hand In mni'ii. an..
that fhe pioinlscd te marry Mr. Carti"
Ho nt the sntno tlmn prom'.wd r. ,iv
her. Tho plaintiff chimin thai she h.
,-ilnte rfiiiliuleii Mr. Carter of his promlf
and that on December 1517, hit refused
to marry her. She elnlms she luu, ie
mnlned uniwniled becauie of the defci d
ant's piomlso am! she now seeks Ho.'"'
damages.
MONTENEGRIN KING
GOES TO ITALY
in., -I i l.i oeloll .fur. -'1'tie '
urn,
p(, Deli.its s." s It Is "f'l- '.I I' al 11.
U in
that M"S M' liula Mi'i'l' " '- i i
his iiinilly and aultt- Iriu .)al,cd for Hit"
peace negotiations between Austria nmt
'MonteiP'BTo bavins Icon biuiuii off.
