HERAL
HOME EDITION
f
WEATHER FORECAST.
1 lato and west Trau, rain, colder;
New Mexico, fair, rain soatheart portion;
Arizona, generally fair colder.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SINGLE COPT FIVE CENTS
EL PASO. TEXAS. THORSDAY EVENING. JANUARY 201916.
DELIVERED ANYWHERE (9 CENTS A MONTH.
TWELVE PAGES TODAY.
FRUIT OF MEXICAN POLICY"
?
ntam
chon
TODAY'S PRICES
II t an bank not"; fstitc billst S&14
Mex tan p?os 42 Xat'onale bills 17
'oLrraiiza c urrency ,'. Bar eiWer Han-
& Harmon quotations! -! Copper
$' -."6 14 7w Grains lower Livestock
alj Stocks lower.
"MURDER
S
Smith
A 1
lajmB,nr ,
o i fa n f m 1 1 1 1
Claims Britain Advances Its
Own Interests at Expense
Of the United States.
CITIZENSRIGHTS
ARE DISREGARDED
Quotes British Authorities to
Show That British Acts
Are Lawless.
WASHINGTON. D. O. Jan. 20.
Great Britain Interferences
with neutral trade was the
subjet t of a vigorous and exhaustive
speech in the senate today bj- senator
3 loke Smith of Georgia, who pleaded
tor action to prevent England from ad
,.Dcinjj her own trade at the expense
rr the United States while attempting
i destroy Germany commercially
Seisato- Smith declared the Tights of
ire citizens of tbe United States and
her neutral nations were being reck
) ssl disregarded and emphasized par.
ularly what he denounced as Great
B: itam s lawless treatment of America's
C"ttor trade.
I"Stus3ing the action of the allies
. p-i-'tlaiming cotton contraband, the
senator aaserted cotton had not been
used or seeded by Germany jj:
1 e in the manufacture of -war muni
t.'.ns for more .than eight months. He
uoted from a statement prepared for
i .m bv Howard W. Bible, now in Wash
' grO" after a trip to Germany, who
et- rteci that he had learned through
personal investigation that Germany
1 aJ tie eloped a process for using wood
i j'p as a cheaper and more effective
FnbFtitute for cotton in the manufac
ture of explosives
Senator Smith reviewed the history of
, lerferences with trade and diplomatic
t hanges on tbe subject.
British authorities were quoted also
prove that under international law
"'.stuffs are subject to seizure only
onsignea to armed forces of an
e
(G0LDE STATE IS
DERIEJ;IBE1
Trenton, Mo, Jan. 20. Louis Collier.
engineer, of Trenton, Mo. was killed I
- no iour trainmen were injured near
. .re early today when a double header
irain on the Chicago. Rock Island &
Pacific railway made up of the "Golden
state Limited" and Chicago passenger
Tain No. 2, eastbound, was derailed.
All the steel coaches. left the track
I ut no passengers were injured.
MIDLAND & NORTH WESTERN RY.
FILES INCORPORATION PAPERS
Austin, Texas, Jan. SO. Articles or
'a corporation of the Midland & North
v estern Railway company have been
f.lcd in the state department after hav
ing been approved by the attorney gen
et a :'s department, with a capital stock
r $65,000. and its headquarters at Mid-
i land. Midland county.
ft Ac cording to the charter this road Is
to be constructed and operated from
Midland to the town of Seminole, Gaines
county, a distance of 65 miles, thus
opening up one of the finest livestock
; nd agricultural sections in the state.
A great deal of the land tributary to
ins road is in the famous shallotr
v ater belt of 'West Texas.
LINER RYNDAM, VICTIM OF
ACCIDENT, IS FLOATED
i London, Eng Jan. 2"0. TheHolland
v American line steamer Ryndam which,
after an accident resulting in the death
of three stokers and the injury of four
others, ran aground at Gravesend, was
floated today. The vessel is anchored
at Holehaven.
The Ryndam left New Tork January
5. for Rotterdam with 151 passengers
and a crew of 200 men.
MINE WORKERS OFFICIALS
AVERT AX INVESTIGATION
Indianapolis, Ind., Jan. 20. After a
long and bitter debate over a propo
sition to investigate the financial af
fairs within the United Mine Workers
of America, the' administration of the
big union won a sweeping victory in
convention today when the delegates
with comparatively few dissenting,
voted down a resolution to appoint a
committee to conduct such a scrutiny
of the organization's money affairs.
The Herald andNewMexico
From Lordsburg (K. ILl Western Liberal.
In the January 1 edition of the Kl Paso Herald a quarter page mining
summary of Xew Mexico was published, featuring the progress and enormous
,Toductio.i of the Lordsburg region. This article has received wide publicity
O..V, ua iuiucu urn uiiuiug Bjjuiiigni on
President Wilson Has
KILL AMERICANS, SAYS ARGUMEDO
The War At a Glance
FROM Rome today cames the
definite announcement that
hostilities between Montene
gro and Austria have been resumed,
Montenegro having officially no
tified Italy to this effect, the dis
Eatch stated, and hostilities had
een resumed along the whole
front.
Greek. King Angry
Greece again is a poiqt of signal
interest on the war map, although
her territory has not been the scene
of hostilities. King Constantino
gave the Associated Press corre
spondent at Athens an interview
in which he voiced strong protests
against the attitude of the entente
powers toward his country.
Ml PROGRAM
IS UNDER FIRE
CnanTmrii "Pofofn Hormvif tr
ujicoiiciii U1U11' jiuwiiuj
League Declare Daniels'
Plan is Insuincient.
Washington. D. C, Jan. 20. Secretary
of the navy Daniels' naval program was
assailed as weak and insufficient and
the country's foreign policy was at
tacked as having created a situation
where an American citizen's life of late
had "scarcely enjoyed the consideration
accorded that of a turkey buzzard in the
land south of us," by speakers at to
day's session of the National Security
league convention
"This is not a time to mince words,"
declared president S. Stanwood Menken
in his opening address, "but to state
coldly the facts so as to let the country
know who are for the country first, as
distinguished from those who are first
Need avT Nov. J
"" SecretnrV TirtelSTeednileTidatItmsr
he said, did .not go sufficiently fan.
"His program is weak and insuf
ficient for the needs of the country and
it must be borne in mind that the navy
he recommends will not 'be built under
his plan till the expiration or ten years.
If vce need a navy at all we need it
now.
Congressional Situation Menacing.
The present congressional situation
is particularly menacing," he continued,
"owinp to the fact that the majority
leader of the house is opposed to the
recommendations of the chief magis
trate and finds support in the position
taken by William J. Bryan. Mr.
Bryan' view, according to his support
ers, is based.on sentiment. To my mind
it is merely another proof of his notori
ous inability for direct or hard think
ing on any grave matter."
Must Back Up Neutral Rights.
"Neutral rights become a mere name
when neutral nations cannot or will
not combine to maintain them," de
clared Frederick R. Coudert, of New
York, "and the voice of an unarmed,
timid, hesitant United States may carry
little more weight in the word of pub
lic opinion than the querulous protest
of Persia or Peru."
David Jayne Hill, former ambassador
to Germany, declared "our pacificists
friends are beginning to realize that
in the presence of cannon, machine
guns, entrenched riflemen and the
tempest of deadly gas, their reasoning.
nowrer logical, is inenectuai.'
GEN. WOOD ADVOCATES
CHANGED MILITARY SYSTEM
Washington, D. C, Jan. 20. Testify
ing before the senate military commit
tee Wednesdav on the needs of the
army, Maj. Gen. Leonard Wood said he
considered secretary Garrison's army
program absurdly inadequate and ad
vocated compulsory military service for
all American males within age limits.
This, he said, would make available an
army of 2.500,000 trained men.
He said an untrained army, meeting
Germany on the French frontier, "would
never have known what hit 'em." Gen.
Wood advocated the federalization of
the national guard, declaring the per
sonnel spelndid. but the national guard
system of state control pernicious
from a national standpoint.
INCREASED RATE GRANTED
ON JUNK AND SCRAP IRON
Austin. Texas, Jan. 20. The railroad
commission today granted an increase
in rates on junk and scrap iron as a
result of the increased freight rate
hearing. The Increase allowed on these
commodities Is one cent per hundred
pounds. The minimum ra.te for a dls-
tance of 20 miles and less Is increased I
from five to six cents, and the maxi
mum, which reached a distance of over
600 miles, the rate is increased 16 to
17 cents. The minimum weight per
car was Increased from 40,000 to 30,000
pounds.
A. J. IIARIER CANDIDATE
FOR REELECTION TOENCH
Austin, Texas, Jan. 20. Judge A. J.
Harper, of the court of criminal ap
peals, today officially announced his
candidacy for reelection as a member
of that court and has forwarded to the
chairman of the Democratic executive
committee his name to be placed on
the official ballot in the July primaries.
Loro5ourg.
MVS IRS. IR
.PLlflFJ) DEATH
Negro Chauffeur Testifies
as to Arrangements Made
for Killing Doctor.
Providence. R. I., Jan. 20. The prose
cution in the Mohr murder trial today
continued its efforts to show that Mrs.
Elizabeth Mohr hired two negroes,
Cecil Brown and Henry Spellman, to
murder her husband. Dr. C. Franklin
Mohr. George W. Healis. the physi
cian's negro chauffeur, who turned
state's evidence after being indicted,
had not completed bis testimony when
court adjourned Wednesday.
In resuming his testimony today,
Healis said that on tho night of August
27 he went with Brown to Mrs. Mohr's
house.
3Irs. Mohr asked Brown how things
were. Healis testined. "and Brown
I said 'OK.' She asked where we were
I going to pull it off. She though it
wond De better on 'the Newport side.'
because she knew ali the police of
Newport. Mrs. Mohr finally said she
would leave that to us. She sattl 'all
you have got to do. George, is to stop
the car.' She told Brown he would
get $2000 and I was to get 5 209 and
Spellman $1000.
Were To Cnll It n Holdup.
"I told Mrs. Mohr I didn't want to
do it She told mo cot to be afraid,
that I could say it was a holdup and
to call up tho nearest house and tell
them that the doctor had been held up
and shot. The murder was planned for
the next night. Brown said it: could
throw our guns Into the water."
To Throw Gunj In Lake.
Healis said he and Brown pieki-d
out the spot for the murder, that they
agreed to throw the guns into a lake
and that Brown shwed him where he
would leave.-his motorcycle.
Shivers! Ice Cream Rate
IsSReducedSFbrWiritcr
J:t-4i.i AA. j
'
Santa Fe. N. M Jan. 20. Because of . & HeflBtag company employes north
suit for damages hv a nanan aHsrht- to,,, i - rm.. ... , .
a suit for damages bv a nezsan aright.
ing from a Santa Fe trairi ear Nntt
station and spraining his ankle, the
state corporation commission has with
drawn its request to make a point six
miles west of Nutt a flag station.
The commission has closed the case
of the Grimshaw company of Albuquer
que vs. the Wells Fargo Express com
pany, having obtained a rate of 60 cents
per ctrt. on ice cream.
LOAN BROKERS' ACT VALID;
ALLEGED RAIDER GETS BOND
Aulln Ts Jon A -mi.. 1 ''"'" ircvm num. .roller saiu ne Oiant
Rhr& naf beVr ST'ST. '.Sort JPSK l ?"?'. ""reupon the officer
ot criminal appeals hi the case of exparte I i0JLd,ed K revolver in front of Potter s
James Hansen, from Bazar county, by i Vf- i h,s brought, at once, arrivals
which aotlon the constitntionalitr of tbe . 2.V?'"' a drft for the desired sum.
loan brokers act of the thirty-fourth leglsla- j bJ8 draft was reported still in the
ture. requiring loan brokers to gle a JSW0 ! "anls of the chier of staff of Argu
bond, is upheld. I intdo.
Ball was eranted to exparte Ramon PI- i Carranza Prisoners Murdered.
zana. from Cameron county, on application 1 Later reports from Velardena de
for a. wrft of habeas corpus and bond was clare that of the S00 Carranza troops
fixed at SW0. Pizaaa is held oa a charce nrrtutnln that .- emA ii ...L
2 SKK: .n,Jonx-.,T.'!5 t.nHEiT?r. .to the. invading forces, the
dler. tino was killed when a raid was made
-- . , - . -.- .
on the Los Tnlitos ranch In Cameron eoun
tr, last Ausurt.
GOVERNMENT TAKES PART
IN BOOTLEGGING CAMPAIGN
Prescott. Ariz., Jan. 21. John Barant,
recently arrested for violating the state
prohibition law, who subseuentiy
filed a suit to compel justice of the
peace J. H. McLane to return his
liquor, seized as evidence, has now
been served with a warrant by deputy
internal revenue collector R. E. Griz
zard, charging that he sold liquor
without a government license.
This Is the first time since Arizona
went "dry" that the United States au
thorities have taken a hand in he pros
ecution of alleged bootleggers.
GOES BLIND AND DIES;
WOOD ALCOHOL BLAMED
Douglas, Ariz Jan. 20. This must
be awful stuff. I can't see a thing,"
are said to have been the last words of
private Philip Rokbolt, company A,
22nd Infantry, before becoming uncon
scious at the army camp where he had
appeared after two days" leave. Rok
bolt died later from heart failure be
lieved to have been caused by drink
ink wood alcohol. A board of officers
was appointed to Investigate the cir
cumstances. WOMAN AND "BABY ARE
RESCUED FROM FLAMES
nll rvlft es .bi T.m Ar v
and the one-year-old daughter of Mr
and Mrs. Goss had a narrow escape
frpm death in flames which cutter! the-
Goss home.
Mr. and Mrs. Goss left
iiie uaoy wnn itrs. Heeler and went
to a theater, returning to find the
living room a mass of flames and
smoke. Mr. Goss rushed through tho
burning house and rescued the woman
and baby from a bedroom. Thev were
asleep. '
MEXICAN GIRL TREATED FOUR
HOURS FOR MERCURY POISONING
A Mexican girl of 19 years was taken
to the emergency hospital Wednesday
night at 11 oclock from the 400 block
on Durango street and given emer
gency treatment. Her name was giv
en as Caulcula Gavrera.
Physicians worked with her for four
hours administering antidotes for mer
cury poisoning, which Dr. G. B. Cai
man, the police surgeon, declared had
caused her illness.
She is expected to recover.
CRUDE OIL ADVANCE.
independence, Kas, Jan. 20 The
Si!,0.6 of crude oil was advanced five
cents a barrel todav ,- th. r.-t.. i
ljl1f0Gas co!""1- The newprice is
Certainly
JPLAJIS REMOVAL
OF CARRANZA
ALSO
Arrivals Tell Of New Re
volt Headed By Coalition .
Forces About Torreon.
AMERICAN SAVES
LIFE WITH DRAFT
Half Of Velardena Carran-
cisla Garrison Surrenders;
Is Slain, Report.
fcfr ft MERICANS and Carrandstas
A look alike; kill them ail!"
This was the order issued by
Gen. Benjamin Argumedo when he got
to Velardena on his march at the head
of a combined force of Zapatistas.
Felicistas, and his own men, just pre
vious to his capture of Gomez Palacio.
Jan. 6, according to Americans arriv
ing from Torreon Thursday morning in
El Paso.
The capture or Gomez Palacio held
significance In the fact that Argu
medo's column represented a combina
tion of Zapata, Felix Diaz and his
Oaxaca. Indians, Argumedo, Canuto
Reyes, and former Villa troops in an
effort to remove Carranza and all
foreigners from Chihuahua tatt i
1 arrivals declared.
!r- Gen. C Castranes was identified with
jturyaaping column, arrivals said,
Ube,cmovi tras first Jieard of .at
Vi "owB. arTMrig American Smelting!
.. , u w jiwicvu. j. ue xurces uia not
linger in Gomez Palacio, arrivals
stated, but moved northward in a
march to make a junction with Villa
and Rosalio Hernandez, who were re
cently reported making southward and
westward from the Guerrero district
towards Parral. to meet Argumedo.
Potter Held l'p For 10.000 Pesos.
Howard Potter, an American in Tor
reon, and son of James Brown Potter,
also of that city, and well known here,
was held up by the chier of staff ot
Gen. Argumedo, with a demand for
..t,Pr TDirin
Six' machine smns and nil
rifles and ammunition, and then mur-
oerea tne prisoners.
Jimulco Bridge Destroyed.
The big steel bridge near Picardlas.
at Flora del Jimulco, was destroyed by
the Argumedo forces. It was reported,
prior to the advance on Torreon. On
the way to Torreon the telegraph poles
were used for decorative purposes,
v.ith prisoners used for the main dec
orations, hung along the line of march,
captured from both sides by Argumedo
and Carranza forces in the advance
and retreat from Velardena.
Although only 25 invaders occupied
Gomez Palacio the first night, the ar
rivals stated, the Carrancista garrison
of Torreon failed to attack them. Later
Canuto Reyes led some 200 men Into the
town, and although no Americans were
executed there. Spaniards and Mexicans
were murdered and all movable supplies
captured with the explanation left be
hind that Carranza would have to pay
for them, and it would be well to make
the bill a big one.
After the departure of the Argumedo
allied forces from Gomez Palacio. the
arrivals stated. Carranza force?
swooped from Chihuahua city to the
tune of 2000. with 1200 cavalry, arriving
from Durango.
Fifty Americans In Torreon.
Some 50 Americans are remaining In
Torreon. the arrivals Thursday morning
in El Paso, 3tated, In a foreign poru
latlon of about 200. Destruction of rail
way t rid pes had prevented the opening
up of he Cont-nental Rubber 'omoaay
plant at Cedrc, near Zacatecas.
medinaveitiaHbeTng kept
concealed, says report
Gen. Manuel Medlnaveitia. Villa's for
mer lieutenant, who was reiuseu am
nesty by Gen. Alvaro Obregon and then
granted it bv" Gen. Jacinto Trevino. and aKain give battle. These may nave m
graniea n oy ieu- """ n k i eluded smrrrestlnnn of a territorial na-
brought to the border personally by
Trevino. is being concealed and pro
tected by Carranza authorities both
military and civil, across the river, it
is announced. . ..
Gen. Medinaveitiawas put across the
Rio Grande by United States immigra
(Continued on rase 2, Col. 3)
KABIBSLE
KABARET
Dt7KMR.KABIBBi
WHEN IS THF BEST TIME To
PROPOSE -AFJERrJOOMR
SilL ISok -mx-to you when
SHE AAVS"NO'' 3
Had His Own Way,
WlFLOOD 1LISTER1
ITERS RECEDE
Part of Buckeye Bridge is
Washed Out; Make Many
Thrilling Rescues.
Phoenix. Ariz., Jan. 28. The expected
increase in the flow of the Verde river
did not materialize last night and the
flood in the Salt river was subsiding
tooay. ueiwecii imutiigit. aim u u uucii
the gage directly south of Phoenix
dropped more than a foot. The stream.
was still carrying uo.tmi second reef,
ir conserved, the present flow of the
Salt river would entirely fill the reser
voir in 9 uuui9. . pons stale mat it win De at least z
Ten feet of water was going over the i hours before the track is repaired suf
spillways around Roosevelt dam today. ficiently to permit traffic.
More rain is expected, which may bring i The lines of the Santa. Fe and Golden
a. greater flood. One hundred and fifty I State in southern California are said
feet of the Buckeye railroad bridge over ! to be in such a condition that It will
Agua Fria river, IS miles west of Phoe- ) be probable 12 hours before trains can
nix. is gone. Bridges at Tempe and ; begin running on schedule again.
Phoenix were saved bv .heroic efforts
Hundreds of acres of valuable farming '
lands now under water may be sandy ,
wastes when the waters recede.
Five families near Tempe fled to 1
higher ground last night. Officers
Wednesday afternoon effected a thril
ling rescue of Rimer Morford. his wife,
new born babe, nurse and four other
persons marooned on an island south
east of the city. Four beekeepers on
another island, who had refused to
leave their hives when warned of high
water, were saved with difficulty.
Santa Fe main line trains will be
passing through Phoenix late this
afternoon unless news comes of wash
outs on Southern Pacific east of Tucson.
A washout on the Santa Fe east of Win
slow .forced the. detouring of eastbound
trains via. Phoen;x and El Paso sev
eral days.
SANTA FE LINE PARALYZED;
S. P. WASHOUT AT TUCSON
Albuaceraue. N. 3L. Jan. 20. Santa.
Fe trains westbound had. hardly left
here this morning oa their way to Dem
urer the Southern
Pacific's tract
tmnlSK haiiM th fiantft T?
line is paralyzed by washouts, when It
was announced tirat the southern
Pacific had a washout at Tucson and
would not receive them.
Later trains were held here. Including
two sections of .the California Limited,
with about 200 passengers, and a solid
train of mail and express. There
have been -on trains in here from
Los Angeles since Tuesday and no
trains from west of the state line since
Wednesday because of flood damage to
the Santa Fe in California and Arizona.
CLIFTON STRnKTS FLOODED
BY OVERFLOW OF RIVER
Clifton. Ariz.. Jan. 20. Streets in the
north section of Clifton were flooded
Wednesday by the overflow waters
from the San Francisco river. No loss
of life has been reported.
MONTENEGRO GOES BACK TO IR;
REJECTS ENEMf 'S PEACE TERMS
R
OME. Ital, Jan. 20 Fighting be
tween Austria and Montenegro
has been resumed. Montenegro
notified Italy officially of this fact to
day. Montenegro's decision was communi
cated to the Italian foreign office from
the Montenegrin premier. The note is
to the effect that king Nicholas and
the Montenegrin government have re
jected all terms offered by Austria and
that fighting already has been re
sumed along the whole front.
King Nicholas remains with his army,
to organize the defences of the country.
Hungarian Announcement Premature.
The announcement of count Tisza,
Hungarian premier, before the Hun
garian parliament a few days ago that
Montenegro had accepted peace terms
is thus branded as. premature.
The facts are believed to be that
Montenegro signified a willingness to
make peace it satisfactory conditions
could be arranged, and that Austria
Hungary, seeing in this signs of capit
ulation, hastily concluded that peace
with Montenegro was in sight.
Secret Demands Snspected.
However, the dual monarchy sUl'.l
lated peace could be effected only after
Montenegro had laid down her arms in
unconditional surrnder. This is a con
dition which Montenegro is believed to
have rejected, but it is likely that cer
tain other conditions outlined by Aus
tria, and which have not thus far been
made Dubllc. Influenced Montenegro to
ture entailing sacrifices on the part
of Montenegro.
WOULD SAVE COOO SERBS.
Paris. France, Jan. 20. Mine. Slavko
Gouitch, formerly Miss Mabel G. Dun
lap, of West Virginia, wife of. the Ser
vian under secretary of state for for
eign affairs, has arrived here and is en
deavoring to arrange for a neutral ship
to bring away from Giovanni di Medua,
and other places in Albania. 6000 Ser
vian women and children, left behind,
who. otherwise are likely to fall into
the 'hands of the Austrians or die from
hunger and exposure.
CALIFORNIA'S FLOOD
CONDITIONS IMPROVED
Denver. Colo- Jan. 20. Though direct
news has not been received, owing tp
lack of wire communication, Califor
nia's flood situation is believed Ira
proved for the reason that the storm
area is moving eastward and better
Conditions are reported from Arizona.
I
Washing Out of Track in
Canfornia Ties Up Traf
z fie For Many Hours. -
i All traffic over the Southern Pacific,
El Paso & Southwestern and Santa Fe
: lines has been indefinitely delayed by
the washing out of a considerable por-
i mum ui uacft in cuumtirii ianiuniiii.
according to reports received by agents
of these three lines.
Up to two oclock Thursday afternoon,
the Southern Pacific eastbound limited
j had not arrived at Yuma, Ariz and re
i ports state that it will be at least 24
BE1 DEAD II
HAWAIIAN STORM
Honolulu. T. H.. Jan. 20. Seven lives
are known to have been lost and many
persons are missing as the result of a
general storm of unprecedented violence
which for a week past has been sweep
ing the Hawaiian islands.
The rains have done some damage in
Honolulu, but the island of Mauii has
been the chief sufferer. Roads and
bridges were destroyed. The famous Iao
valley was swept by tbe storm and the
bodies of seven persons have been re
covered there, with many others report
ed missing.
The official record for the rainfall r
Honolulu during tbe month of January
to date ts 15 Inches.
DOUGLAS LACKS FLOWERS,
FRUIT; FLOODS CAUSE
Douglas, Ariz. Jan. 20. Because of
the floods which hae tied up railroad
traffic. Douglas lacks flowers, fruit
and films, which are ordinarily im
ported from southern California. Veg
etables are also a scarcity in the local
markets from the same cause.
THIRTY HOUSES REPORTED
WRECKED IN WINKELMAN
Globe Ariz . Jan. 20. It is reported
here that SO houses in Winkelman
have been washed away by flood
waters of the Gila river. The Gila has
left its banks and cut a new channel
through Winkelman. No lives were
lost.
MUNITIONS DEPOT I1LOWN
UP; GERMANS ARE 'KILLED
London. Eng., Jan. 20. The Amster
dam correspondent of the Berlin An
zeiger, who witnessed the recent ex
plosion of the large German ammuni
tion depot in Lille, northern France,
describes the damage as enormous.
Not only was the munitions depot en
tirely destroyed, but havoc was
wrought in the surrounding area to
houses and factories, most of which
were razed to the ground. The German
lanasirum iroops. wno were guarding
the depot, were killed.
BRITISH SUBMARINE IS
ASHORE: NO LIVES LOST
London. Eng., Jan. 20. A British sub
marine has gone ashore off Holland,
according to an announcement made
by the official press bureau today.
There was no loss of life.
THRILLING ADVENTURE IN EVERY LINE
'The Devil's Darning Needle"
By Henry M. Neely
Beginning in the Week-End Herald this wwk. the first of a new series
of adventure stories will be published in the Kl Paso Herald. The stories
are the best "pure adventure stories that have yet been given the American
reading public.
It is a series similar to Richard' Harding DaiU's great series which. The
Herald has been publishing. This scries concludes" tomorrow and The
Devil's Darning Neddie" series begins in the Week-Kud Herald.
This new series of adventure stories deals with aviation; with secret
service work; with government secrets and attempts to steal them, and
each in a way which claims and holds attention throughout.
The order in which the opening chapters of the different "De il's Darning
Needk" stories will be published, with tlie titles of the stories, follows:
January 22, "The Devil's Darning Needle ;n January 29. The Kidnaped
Admiral;" February 5, "His Clear Conscience;" February 12, The Aaateuf
Bandits;" February 19, The Scarlet Scarf;" February 2, The Lonely
Voyage of Monsieur Porier."
Other stories of the series will be announced later.
These stories will appeal strongly to all, not alone to men and boys, who
always like adventure stories, but quite as strongly to women and girls who
wish pure adventure splendidly toM.
Watch for the Opening Story of the Series in
the Week-End Herald This Week
Without Interference
v I lr I Is.? 9
Says Policy Is One of "Mis
chievous Meddling, Coupled
With Base Betrayal'1
SAYS U. EARNED
MEXICAN HATRED
Asserb Protection of Amer
icans at Tampico Was Left
To English and Germans.
F-r "TASHINGTON-.
A The Santa
D. C Jan. 20.
Ysa.be! murders
were declared to be the "logical
fruit" of the administration's Mexican
policy, in a speech in the house today
by representative Mondell of Wyo
ming, Republican, reviewing at length
outrages committed against Americans
in Mexico since the overthrow of
Madero.
"By following, not a policy of watch
ful waiting, but of mischievous med
dling," said Mr. MondeU, "coupled with
base betrayal and callous indifference
to the welfare and safety of American
citizens. ' has tbe admrnlstration lost
the respect and confidence and earned
tbe contempt of rrrst one and then the
other and finally all the people of
Mexico. .
"By the same process has the ad
ministration subjected our citizens in
Mexico to the sort of treatment likely
to be meted out to citizens of a coun
try whose authorities have brought
upon them the illwill and distrust and
hatred of a whole people."
American Precedents, Ignored.
The administration, the speaker de
clared, "ignored past American prac
tice in international intercourse." in its
plan of "personal vengeance." against
Huerta ind then, by recognizing Car
ranza "had given the clearest and
most convincing proof of the erro
and insincerity of its declarations that
no government would ever be recog
nized which did not have a constitu
tional basis for Its authority."
German Protected Americans.
Mr. Mondell charged that a few days
after the American troops were landed
at Veracruz, terrorized Americans who
were suffering Indignities a Tampico.
were denied the protection of nearby
i i-an warships and were taken out
of danger "on German and English
wi3. Lier ine coeiiBaaaer o toe
German gunboat Dresden had trained
his guns on Tampico "served notice, of
his intent to use them if Injury or fur
ther insults were attempted, and es
corted our people to the wharf."
An American warship, which lay in
Tampico harbor. Mr. Mondell declared,
had sailed away "upon orders from
Washington, leaving our people de
fenceless and at the mercy of an armed
infuriated and drunken mob."
HALL COUNTY MAN KILLS
HIS WIFE AND HIMSELF
Ajnarillo. Texas. Jan. 20. Reports of
a double tragedy near Silverton have
sen received here. Oscar Franz, of
J Turkey, Hall county, the report says.
Kiuea us wire ana then shot himself.
dying a short time afterward. Franx
and Ms wife had been separated, the
report said, and he had gone to her
home to effect a settlement for a di
vision of the property. .The couple had
been married seven years and had one
small child. .j
