rmTOTTni ro a id id w 7H a ti tt w nrnnMnw
"HAUKK. VKHMOXT, THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 1910.
PRICK, OXK CKXT.
VOL. NO. ,202. v
r
PAkLEY
ENDED
Montenegrin King and Gov
ernment Have Rejected
All the Offers of Austria
and Fighting Has Been
Resumed Along the Fron
OFFICIAL NOTICE
IS SENT TO ITALY
King Nicholas Remains with
His Troops to Reorganize
the Defenses of His Coun
try, According to Same
Advices .
Rome, Jan. 20. Fighting between Aus
tria and Montenegro lias been resumed
Montenegro notified Italy officially of
this fact to-day. Montenegro's decision
was communicated to the Italian foreign
office from the Montenegrin premier.
The note is to the effect that King
Nicholas and the Montenegrin govern
ment have rejected all the terms offered
by Austria and that fighting already has
been resumed along the front. King
Nicholas remains with the army to or
ganize the defenses of the country. '
ITALY TO GIVE AID
TO THE SERBIANS
Will Assist in the Reorganization of the
Remnants of the Serbian Army
Plans Are Already Discussed.
Rome, Jan. 20. -The Italian govern
ment lias decided to extend generous aid
toward the re-organization of the rem
nants of the Serbian army. It is said.
that fully 50,000 Serbians have already
reached a refuge in Corfu. The Stefani
agency announces that the king, during
a recent visit to Brindisi, held a confer
ence with the Serbian ministers who
had arrived there.
Minn. Schwi miner mid sh had select
ed to succeed John IX Harry of San
Francisco as a niemlicr of the perma
nent peace board because Mr. HHrry had
lieen dimissed on account of bis refuital
to sign a statement on board the stcnm
er ((war II on the journey aero" the
ocean denouncing President Wilson
preparedness policy, probably will de
cline tluj pot.
J his would leave the Americans, who
started tlm expedition from New York
seven weeks ago with a party of ISO.
with the smallest representation on the
; hoard. Mine, Schwininier said to-day
ithat Mr. Ford and William Jennings
Hryan had not been heard from, lhe
Rev. Jenkin Lloyd Jones of Chicago,
Irrederiek Holt of Detroit and a score
of other Americans will be delayed here
until February on account of the damage
to the steamer Ryndiim on which they
had intended to take, passage home.
OCEAN NO SAFEGUARD
AGAINST ATTACK
THINKS WAR
WILL CONCLUDE
ONLYIN DRAW
King Constantine of Greece
Issues Statement to World
Through the Medium of
the Press of the United
States, the Only Forum of
Public Opinion Open to
Him
GERMANY TOO STRONG
TO BE WHIPPED
Major General Leonard Wood Tells Sen
ate Military Committee That United
States Coast Line Is Open to Attack
by Any Well-Organized
Foreign Army.
Washington, D. C, Jan. 20. Major
General Leonard Wood told the Senate
military committee yesterday the coast
line of the United States was open to
attack by any well organized foreign
army, despite its equipment ot torts,
mines and submarines, and thai the
oceans formed no serious barrier to in
vasion. He declared that in the coun
try's present state of utter unprcpnred
ness for war a trained force of 150,000
men could" inflict incalculable damage be
fore on army could be assembled to
meet it.
Events of the European war clearly! The king of Greece on last Thursday
demonstrated, the genera! said, that the summoned the Associated Press corre-
sca was tne nest medium tot me im ve-, dent at AtneM for the of
merit of troops ana he pointed out that r , .... -
Unless Forced by Economic
Necessity to Sue for Feace
Greece's King Protests
Against Allies' Operations
in Greece and "Highest
French Authority" An
swers Him
REFUSED TO MARRY HER.
Declares Myrtle P. Webb in Suit Against
Vermont Man,
Rutland, Jan. 20. -A breach of prom
ise suit has lt'i" brought against Wil
limn E. Carter of 1'ittsford and Boston.
Mass., in which Miss Myrtlo 1'. Webb of
Portland, Me., seeks to recover $10,000
burt balm from the Hutlitnd county
man, who is well known throughout the
state, having been elosply identilled with
the Vermont State Dairymen s associa
tion. The case is brought by the firm
of Iwrence, Lawrence and Stafford and
it is rettirnaiila at tho March term of
Rutland county court.
Mr. Carter was for two years presi
dent of tho Rutland Fair association, is
at present a vice tyesident f the HS
sociatiou and ha i also a member of
the Rutland Country club and a trus
tee of Rutland lodge of Elks.
The papers allege that Miss Webb on
September I, 1011 in the city of Bos
ton, was asked for her hand in marriage
and that she. promised to marry Mr.
Carter. He at the same time promised
to marry her. The plaintiff claims that
she has since reminded Mr. Carter of
his promise and that on December IS,
11(15, he refused to marry her. She
claims she has remained unmarried be
cause of the defendant's promise and
Bhc now seeks 10,OTK) damages.
PICKING JURY
TO TRY HATCH
Manslaughter Case Started
in Caledonia Coun
ty Court
PROSECUTION NOT
TO SHOW INTENTION
Defense Will Strive to Prove
Death of Sumner Brown
Was Accidental
OVER 20 CONVICTS
ESCAPED PRISON
Fled from Arkansas Penal Farm at Cu-
mains, 60 Miles from Little Rock,
This Morning.
St. Johnsbury, Jan. 20. The trial of
Harlow Hutch on the charge of man
slaughter in the shooting of Sumner
Brown, his employe, last summer, was
started iu Caledonia county court this
morning and it attracted considerable
attention as the courtroom was filled
with spectators. Hatch had been ar
raigned yesterday afternoon, the in
dictment being read to him, after which
he pleaded not guilty. During tho past
few days Hatch has been out of jail
Little Rock, Ark., Jan. 20. Between
20 and 40 convicts escaped from the Btate .under bail and was feeling in fairly good
penal farm at Cumains, 00 miles from
lerc, this morning, according to advices
received by the penitentiary commission
er.
OLD TRUSTEES OUSTED.
force of 12H.000 men fully equipped
had been lunded at Gallipoli from a sin
gle expedition of !)8 ships, against sub
marines, mines and an underwater screen
of barbed wire that fringed every avail-
ble landing place.
Emphasizing his conviction that troop9
cannot be improvised to meet regulars
making a protest through the press of
the United States, which he said was the
only forum of public opinion open to him,
against the recent action of the allies in
their operations at Saloniki, in blowing
up the bridge at Demir Hissar, in oc
cupying Corfu and other islands, which
in
At Annual Village Meeting Held in Mid
dlebury, "
Middlebnry, Jan. 20. At the annual
vi'lluiri nii.tiitir vettterduv Thad f I'hiin.
man was elected moderator and Joseph !of the. prospective jurymen by tl
of trus-1 evident mat me
spirits until yesterday when tho ordeal
of his coming trial seemed to depress
him.
The forenoon session to-day was de
voted to drawing a jury and at the noon
recess there were fourteen men in the
jury box but there were two challenges
so that it was not certain when
BARRE MAN WINNER.
W. B. Scott't Barre Plymouth Rocka
Won Most Prizes.
St. Albans, Jan. 20. The work of
the judge at the l'.lth exhibition of tho
Vermont Statu Poultry association was
completed lust night. Many pxhihitors
from various part of the Ms to attend
ed the show yesterday.
In both the cockerel ami pullet lines
of llarred Plymouth Rocks, W. Barclay
Scott or Hu r re, who had one of the best
strings ever shown here, won most of
the prize. In the cockerel line F. C.
hvaua of Ilurlington won third hen, third
cockerel, second pullet, second pen young
and second pen old.
C. L. Curtis of St. Albans took all tho
firsts but one, losing on cock bird, in
the White Plymouth Rock class.
In singlo comb Rhode Island Reds, .
W. Sault of St. Albans took all firsts.
In hens he won every place, tha first
hen being the same which won last
year. Shu agum toolc color and shape
special
In rose comb Rhode Island Reds, .
H. Witters of St. Albuns won every
first prize and most of the other priz.es.
lhe prizes in tho White yandoole
lass are about evenly distributed among
five or six exhibitors. A large number
went to W. F. Shontell of Watcrbury.
A meeting Thursday afternoon of the
LONG SESSION
OF COURT ENDS
September Term of Wash
ington County Tribunal
Just Concluded
WENTWORTH YOUTH
PUT ON PROBATION
He Pleaded Guilty to the
Charge of Burglarizing a
Montpelier Storp
,-6
J ho Septenib' wV . of Washington
county cotir 0v .nally adjourned to
day by Jm .v. I.. Waterman, it having
Green Mountain Poultry association, the m,'n " i"e longest terms in recent
ermont branch of the American I'oul- " "" exception oi anoui a
try association, will be held and also j month when Judge Waterman was pre-
connection a special meeting of the Ver- Bll"'"K "range county, court has been
mont State Poultry association will take
place.
Ijist evening Jr. U. Cook of Waltham,
.Mass., one of the judges, gave a lecture
in continuous session and during Judgo
Waterman's absence the assistant judges
heard divorce cases at intervals.
William Wentworth, who was arrested
.. . . . I Tfl Hf BlimniAr n.l Hia ..lmtr. ..f knrnltiri..
mi Ytruet led I millltrv hlHTIMrfl alien Art are " .... . .. i.. U.K.- ... iria.K".. ir.
, - .-.j . - - . . , !,. I ... .. ., -
conducted at Grove Hill poultry yards. ". " " rr
in Waltham, of which he is manager,
He returned to his home last evening.
SEMINARY CLOSED TEN DAYS.
General Wood declared the fundamental ! Greece cUim He gaid the p,ea of j.
OtlS IB IH HHJ policy Ol UlClUlilt? llltLIOimi
efense must be the principle that with
suffrage goes an obligation for military
service. Such a policy had been advo-
FOUR CLASSES
OF RECRUITS
ARE CALLED
cated by George Washington, he said,
and if it had been adopted Canada would
ave become part of the Lnited States in
the war of .1812.
Only once in our history have we been
prepared for war," he added. "That
was immediately after the Civil war.
hen we had a million and a half trained
soldiers. Our diplomatic correspondence
ith France concerning Mexico was very
brief. It required only one note because
of our preparedness. They were told to
get out and they got out,
tary necessity, advanced by the allies,
was like that given by Germany for in
vading Belgium and Luxemburg. "It is
f Riirlr .lrlf Tha rtlit Knnrt
., .. f -o,! i,n.,u I intention will not be to establish in-
(,,, ,,!.. .! ti,-'tent ion on the part of Hatch, lhe de
board of trustees- is as follows:
In Order to Head Off, If Possible, Epi
demic of Scarlet Fever.
Because of a scarlet fever outbreak
among tho students, Uoddard seminary
r,, I was closed yesterday until Monday, Jan.
1 . ...I ...Ml K .......! if
jury would be completed. . I .... . . ... . that
from the nature ot the question asked 1 .... . , .. . f
the pros
state s
the merest cant," the king declared, "for; lire department, George F. Kidder;
Great Britain and France to talk about ; treasurer, Charles F. Pinney; ter
. . , . 'commissioner for three years, C. C.
the vJoUtion of neutrality in Belgium , Wea A u ()( 20 nnta'on the doIlar
and Luxemburg, in view of what they;0f the village grand list was voted for
ion on the part of Hatch.
fence will be that the death of Brown
was accidental.
State's Attorney Nathan A. Norton of
I.yndonville and Attorney General H. G
liaroer oi i5rauieooro are associated in
C. Wells and Henry Joy; chief ofl",c prosccujion oi iiawn, ana Mmoncis
spondetit. IJL
new board of truste!8- is as
Willis K Cady, P. . Sweet, A. N
Brown, A. Fletcher, lr. P. K. Mellen, I'
J. Ilincks and Isaac Lavonche.
Otlier officers chosen were: Auditors
C.
had done and are doing themselves."
King Constantine said he believed it
would be very difficult, if not impossible,
to conquer Germany in a military way,
if economic exhaustion did not force her
to sue for peace. He expressed that
There isn't going to be any weakness finally, in bis opinion, the war would end
roads and sidewalks and a tax of 43
cents for current expenses.
It was voted to extend the sidewalk
on Seymour street and in this connec
tion Judge John E. Weeks offered to
contribute toward tho expense. Col. S
A HUGE POWER DEAL.
of
Great Britain Warns Those Who Fail to
Respond Will Be Treated as De
sertersGroups Include Un
married Men, Aged .
19 to 22. .
London, Jan. 20. Four groups of re
cruits, enlisted under the earl of Derby's
plan, were formally called to the colors
to-day. The groups were composed of
unmarried men between 19 and 22 years
of age. The recruiting committee warned
the recruits that anyone who does not
appear will be treated as a deserter.
FOUR ATTACKS LAUNCHED
abroad after this war is over. You will
find that more male children will have
been born than have been killed or in
jured. You will have all the gold, per
haps, but it will not do you much good
unlegs you stiffen it with iron."
As to the immediate needs of the reg
ular army, General Wood expressed the
opinion that the force of regulars should
be maintained at 210,000. Of these, he
said, 20,000 equipped and supplied for a
year's tihie should be kept in the Philip
pines, another 20,000 m Hawaii and 15,
000 at Panama. He urged that the reg
ulars should have a reserve system un
der which, in a six-year enlistment, men
would be discharged whenever their com
pany commanders reported them as effi
cient, into a reserve to be definitely as
signed to war stations. Equipment for
members of the reserve would be kept
at their stations and once every two
years they would be required to join the
Colors for 10 days' training to keep them
up to date.
General Wood said that if universal I
in a draw.
The interview with the king was trans
mitted from Athens on Jan. 13 but was
sent out from Paris on Jan. 18 at 3:45
p. m. On Jan. 18, at an earlier hour, the
highest French authority, whose person
ality is not otherwise indicated, gave an
interview to the Associated Press in re
ply to statements made by the Greek
king.
This authority denies that there is any
parallel between the German Invasion of
Belgium and Luxemburg and the tem
porary use of certain points in Greece,
which this authority asserts does not
constitute an occupation, properly speak
ing, and which use was made for the
most part with the
Greece.
A. Illsley called attention to the mat- !? k"' ,v" of tha 14
ter of removing snow, after a storm, :"eat ?n i
from the two walk in the park nditl?,n of " .nd !,hf;
offered to meet such expense if arrange
ments could be made for clearing the
walks.
MORE HEROES HONORED.
to
But Nine of Them Were Not Alive
Receive Carnegie Decoration.
Pittsburg, Pa., Jan. 20 At the twelfth
Has Been Consummated On West Side
of Vermont
Rutland, Jan. 20. An immense elec
tric power deal which involves upwards
$1,000,000 and which includes the
ort Henry Light,
pany, the installi
ng for over seven
miles of territory in Crown Point and
adjoining towns, together with the con
struction of a 2,fMK) H. P. power house,,
a wooden stave and steel pipe line o
200 feet in length, thus increasing the
source from 100 to 400 feet was com
pleted yesterday when the stock in the
company owned bv Wallace Murray of
Saranae Lake, X. Y., was purchased byj
F. Monroe Dyer & Co., of 124 Broad j
street, in Montpelier, aecuring in the
vicinity of $100, pleaded guilty to tho
charge late yesterday afternoon and was
given a sentence of not more than two
years nor less than a year and a half in
the house of correction. Sentence was
stayed and the boy placed on probation,
until he is 21. Wentworth has been in
jail since his arrest, having been unablo
to secure bail of $."00.
Henry Wngner, who was arrested in
June charged with adultery and who
since that time has been confined in tho
county jail because of his inability to
secure $500 bail, wag yesterday allowed
conditions on thii hill do not warrant
a further suspension of school work, j by the court to go on his own recocniz
a nee.
Decisions announced by the court fol
annual meetimr of the Carnegie hero street, New iork City, a big financial
fund commission here vesterdav. seven- i house of interests which owns the Hor-
teen acts of heroism were recognized, ton ia Power company of this city.
In four cases silver medals were award- The following stockholders were elect
ed: in thirteen cases bronze medals, ed director: F. M. Dyer, W. O. Alli-
Xino of the heroe- lost their lives? and son and A. P. Lashor of New York City,
to the dependents of four of these, pen-!. M. Marshall of Malonc, X. Y., Irving
sions aggregating $1,920 a year were 'M. Frost of this city, George Foote, 1).
granted; to the dependents of four of 'A. Rich ami C. F. Carpenter of Port
the otlier, who lost their lives, sums Henry, X. Y., and the board organized
totaliiur 83.000 to be annlied. subject to, by electing the following officers: Pres-
tacit consent of Ui iir..,.ti,n of tho commission, iii vaii-! ident. Mr. Dyer: vice president, Mr.
'the
ous wavs, were granted. In addition to
During the recent months," he added, n'onp' K""11" in "e cs the sum
, ' ''of $2,000 was appropriated for educa-
ureex government nas permuieo. ; . ,... Vavnirnts to he made
militflrv sorvico u-na not tn lu nlif ainod ' CarmiM anA Aimtrtflnv tn vtnlat tto ! j. i i . . l. : !
In New Offensive Against Austria By
Russians.
London, Jan. 20. After only a slight
pause since the conclusion of the "New
Year's battle" on the eastern front, the.
Russians again have begun a strong of
fensive against the Austro-Hungarians
on the Bessarabian frontier east of Czer
nowitz, capital of Bukowina.
Vienna had forecast that the second
phase of the battle in this region was
imminent by the announcement that the
Russians were throwing strong reinforce
ments into east Gnlicia.
In the initial offensive of what prob
ably will be termed the "second battle"
the Russians launched with numerous
rommns rour attacks near loporotuz and declared, and they could lie obtained, he
i
he favored a continental army scheme
substantially as proposed by the war
department, provided "it is ' absolutely
divorced from the organized militia." The
increase for the regular army proposed
by Secretary Garrison, however, he char
acterized as "absurdly inadequate and
indicating a failure to appreciate the
lessons of the European war," particular
ly as to the proportion of field artillery.
He recommended that the proportion of
field guns be fied at five to every 1.000
rifles or sabers. The present army stand
ard is 3.9 per 1,000. although in actual
equipment the regulars are nearer two
per thousand. The 'board recently creat
ed in the war department has fixed on
neutratity by using the Greek coasts and . cases awards aggregating $4,500 were
..... I . , . . , i. - ....- I . (iiirl.ii.nj I'OF.
ments in these cases will not lie made
islands as a base for provisioning their
submarines."
NO MARTIAL LAW
TV HRP.F.rP. YF.T
until the beneficiaries' plans for the use
of tho awards have been approved by
the commission.
AGED WOMAN -FATALLY BURNED.
King Defers to Wishes of the People,
Particularly the Labor Union, Which
Complains of High Prices.
! 5.9 per 1.000 as the number necessary.
Reverting to the condition of the coun
try to face war with a first-class power,
lloyan, but, according to Vienna, they
were evcrywncra repulsed.
The Germans have attacked Russian
liases at Tarnopol, east Galicia, with an
air squadron.
MME. SCHWIMMER DISAPPOINTED
Because So Many Americans Refused to
Accompany Her to Stockholm.
The Hague, Jan. l!t, via London, Jan.
o. 4:-o a. m. I lie r-caniiinavian mem-ls-rs
of the Font peace expedition de-
Athens, Jan. 20. Martial law will not
be declared in Greece for the present
on account of the strong opposition of
the people, particularly the labor tin-
the general said the United States was ,ons .wn,cn "ave proiestert to in King sW ,iaJ repeived fatai burns.
Miss Frost was born in Meriilen, Aug.
I -. 1SIO flis .lniinlitnr of Dr. Klin and
Hnce, m- unions rmiin, wouiu
the conditions intolerable.
Misa Mary Frost, 06, of Meriden, N. H.,
the Victim.
Meriden. X. H., Jan. 20. Miss Mary
Frost, aged flfl years, and Meriden's old
est resident, is dead as the result of se
vere burns sustained at her home here.
It is believed that her clothing caught
fire while she was placing wood in a
stove. Neighbors went to her assistance
I but before the flames were extinguished
Df'on the ground that the cost of living
the problems it would have to meet
least 2.000,0(10 men would be needed, he
......!.. .......... -., 1 J 1
.. 1 '. ... ..(, . . .,,,.,!,. i.:t, A ...!. ,!
.At i rAiiriiirij iiiii. -
make
believed, only by compulsory service. At
present there were only 700.000 modern
rifles and .100,000 old-model weapons in
government arsenals, he said, and up to
f ve days ngo the capacity of all Ameri
can plants to produce rifles was only 32.
00(1 a day. Kngland alone, be "said,
wanted fl.VOOO a day, while France called
for two rifles in reserve for every man in
the field.
General Wood was positive in declar
ing the militia waa composed of a fine
personnel, but cursed by a hopeless sys
temunless it oould be taken over "bv
F0UR FUGITIVES CAUGHT.
psrtea to-iay oy skcuii train through .the government and absolutely severed
t.ermany for Copenhagen by permission , from any connection with the states He
of th German military authorities, i said it should be abandoned to the states
The American member of the expe li- j entirely, and not a dollar of government
tion who desire to return to Stockholm , money waited upon it.
have not yet received permission to I "Y l,ould terminate the intolerable
-n. V. f"""" " " ' eciare,i. "the aoldier ele-, foiled SUte immigration inspector
j iud, it !- T--rt i n-i iiii-m . mriii oi ine nilllTtit I vrnnt f.lnml . . , . , .1 ... 1 , 1
ljors agents of the Canadian govern
ment said formal proceedings would be
started throuch the administration at
( ltrt a and the British ambassador at
Washington sekine he return of t If
men to Can'. Tlie immigration dp-j
Are Alleged To Ee Germans Who Es
caped from Detention Camp.
Calais, Me., Jan. 20. A situation of
international interest developed yester
day when four men, alleged to be (Her
man prisoners of war who had escaped
from
S were
of the border. They had crossed the ice
on the St. Croix river two miLs ahoe
this city from the New Itrunswkk shore.
Three of the men bad fl-'d to Aver Junc
tion, is here they were about to board a
westbound train when If. C. fiillis, a
r-
rrost; treasurer, 1). A. Jtich; superin
tendent, Mr. Carpenter.
In addition to the rights owned by
the Port Henry company, the new in
terests have acquired additional rights
and they have already placed contracts
with the National I ipe K Tank com
pany of Portland, Ore., the Lupins iSlieel
company of Hoston. and the S. .Morgan
Smith company of York, Pa., and the
Boston office of the General Electric com
pany for the hydro-electric parts, tho
power house building to be built by
Fred H. Remington of this city, and
the installation of a 2,000 horsepower
hydro-electric equipment.
The decision to forfend the danger ot a
more serious epidemic at the Beminary
was reached at a conference of the
health and school authorities Wednes
day afternoon. Drs. C. F. Dalton and
H. A. Ladd of the state board of fiealth,
with Dr. J. W. Stewart, the local health
officer, visited the seminary and held a
conference with i. O. K. Ilollister
with the result t.. the students were
told to go home for 10 days.
The four students who nave mani
fested positive symptoms of tho malady
have been segregated in the new alum
ni hall. It was stated this forenoon
that none of them has the disease in
virulent form and early recoveries are
anticipated. All was hustling and hur
rvincr at the school when the decision
of the health officers was announced and
at noon to-day most of the students and
members of the faculty had lclt lor
their homes. There is a feeling that the
epidemic has been headed, but depart
ing students were asked to take the pre
cautions usually practiced by people who j
liave been exposed to a contagious dis
ease. Those who have aireaay con
tracted the fever and are being treated
at the seminary are: Miss Fleda Has
sam of East Hardwick, who has been
ill since last Thursday, Miss Ruth Slo
cum of Washington, Miss Annie Sargent
of Warren and Miss orma Beals,
daughter of the seminary steward.
lows: James Canning vs. Martha Can
ning, petition for divorce dismissed for,
lack of connecting evidence': Dr. Arthur
C. Foster vs. Helen Foster, divorce grant
ed, alimony of $fi per week to be paid
wife for support ot minor child; Xed A.
Alexander vs. Lillian Alexander, divorce
granted, exceptions by the defendant;
Bertha Wood vs. Town of Phiinfield.
judgment for plaintiff to recover $.')2;
Cooley-Wright Manufacturing company
vs. Eastern Fruit & Xut Orchard com
pany, judgment for plaintiff.
In the Wood-Town of Phiinfield case,
the plaintiff sought to recover for serv
ices as school teacher after tho school
commissioners had dismissed her.
To-day the Orange county divorce ease
of Blaine vs. Blaine was finished, it hav
ing been heard by Judge Waterman anil
Judge Hayward of Ornngo county.
WAS PATIENT SUFFERER.
FUNERAL OF MRS. CHIOLDL
THIRD DEATH IN FAMILY.
Marv (Roberta) Frost. Her father was
the pioneer physician of this town. She
graduated from Kimball In ion academy
in 1M40. She is survived by a niece,
Mrs. Nathan Andrews of Meriden, and a
nephew, John Frost of Xcwtonville, Mass.
FLOCKING TO UNITED STATES.
Large Number of French-Canadians Seek
to Avoid War.
Berlin, X. If- Jan. 20. It is stated on
excellent authority that there arc over
a detention camp at Amherst, X. j .-,,imm young Canadians, eligible for war
re captured on the American aide j ser ice. in the northern Xew Hampshire
lumlier camps ll me pieseni lime.
They bae come over in large niimlieis
in the last few months, most of them
with the idea of escaping war duty, and
claiming their intention of remaining
here until the war is closed.
Doctors Expect to Save the Six Others
from Strange Malady.
Lyndon, Jan. 20. The death of Fran
cis tarter, ageu is, yesterday after
noon is the third in the Carter family in
ten days. The family included Mr. and
Mrs. Henry J. Carter, six sons and one
daughter.
They occupy a farm in Fast Lyndon.
All except Mrs. Carter were stricken
with an infection of the throat which
twilled local physicians. In Mr. Car
ter's case, pneumonia developed and he i
died January 10. The oldest son. Ora,
ngted 21, died Monday of this week and j
the next oldest, Francis, lived until yes
terday afternoon. The doctor are con
fident of the recovery of the .others who
are ill.
Called Many Friends from Points Con
siderable Distance Away.
Funeral services for Mrs. Ernialinda
Chiokii, wife of Antonio Chioldi of 21
West street, whose death occurred early
Monday morninir, were held in St. Mon
ica's church Wednesday afternoon at 2
o'clock, the pastor, Rev. I'. M. JUclvenna,
officiating. Obsequies for Mrs. Chioldi
served to bring together many of her
long-time friends in this city and other
places. The bearers were: Guiseppe
Berte and Dino Berte. brothers of the
deceased, Medardo Chioldi, a brother-in-law,
and three cousins, Guiseppe Chilo
di, Angclo Lamfranchi and Frank Pa
cini. There was a profusion of floral
tributes. Interment was made in the
Catholic cemetery on lleekley street.
Among those who attended from out
of the city were tha following peoplet
Antonio Bianchi and Angclo Tansi of
Hanover, X. II., Enrico Tonsiglieri and
Carlo Careelli of White River Junction,
Mrs. Louis Bianchi of Windsor, Augusto
Barbieri of Bellows Falls, Alex Piecinot-
ti of Johnson, Guiseppe Chioldi of Mor
risville, William Bonardi of Boston,
Mass., and friends from South Ryegate
and Montpelier.
DIED AT WASHINGTON.
Gustavus L. Lawrence of Montpelier
Passed Away Last Night.
Gustavus L. Lawrence, a life-long resi
dent of Montpelier and for many years
employed in the office of the Argus &
Patriot company as pressman, died at 1 1
o'clock last evening at the home of Mrs.
Hattie Edwards, 5 Fullertou avenue,
Montpelier. He had been in poor health'
for several vears and his illness was
critical for the last 10 days.
lhe deceased was born in Montpelier,
Aug. 12. 1849, the son of Charle and
Xabbv (Reed) Lawrence, being one of 13
children. He entered the employ of the
Argus & Patriot company when a young
man and learned there the trade which
he followed for about 35 years.
He is survived by four brothers and
one sister, Leonard P., Artemas and Mrs.
Sarah Cummings of Montpelier, Solon .
Lawrence of Berlin and Warren Law
rence of Barre.
During his long illness Mr. Lawrence
was a patient sufferer nnd devoted his
time largely to reading the Bible and re--ligious
literature. He often expressed
himself as ready to go when the sum
mons came.
The funeral arrangements have not ,
been completed..
FUNERAL OF W. S. ABBOTT.
Rev.
WAS LOCATED IN BURLINGTON.
BETHLEHEM STEEL DIVIDEND
Earl Carpenter, 15, of Middlesex Was
On Tour.
Burlington, Jan. 20. The police de
partment late last night located in this
city Earl Carpenter, a la year-old boy
of Middlesex, who left Montpelier yes
terday in company with IVey Gold. A
telephone message from tlie Carpenter
to make the trip across the North sva. tion. Xo man nho refnsea tn nn,.
The officials acting on behalf of Henry j the continental army is to be depend.
Ford to-d:iy expressed disapiiointment : upon."
into
1
at the refusal of many of the Americans
to continue associated with the peace!
project. Mme. Rosika Schwimmer, the j
.Austrian del.'gat, and Louis P. Lnrhner. i
general secretary of the expedition, tried
vainly to induce more of them to go I
with the expedition to Stockholm, where
it is intended to begin sessions in an at- '
tempt to bring about a termination of
t'e r. Thus far Dr. (I.ailes F. Ake
i tfce only member of tW so-called per-
l-nnent j a-e board ho is wiIHtij to j
l?ke tl.e Hp.
Harry C. Evans t'f Det Moines, whoa
BIG DIAMONDS INCORRECT.
Measurements Wrong Bccaasc of Mis
understanding of Measurement!.
Chireo, .ln. 20.. An amendment tn
the mles regarding the laying rmt of
t-asehall diamond in proret. aceord- j
ng to Secretary Ilchb-r of t!ie National
lea g He ay C at n anr l,ij lecie
diamonds are ineorre.1 . due to tl-e faihir
of C.e rrounkeepera to un rt vr.J
rjiea-jr"uienta.
Of
. Ihov father asked the aid of the po
130 a Share Declared, Parable ia i1''" department in looting his son. who.
Quarterly Installments. v ' J ... t . IL.. I, ,". u ' ' ,1 , , !
Mrs, Clara (Paine) Calef Was 111 a Short
Time.
Mrs. Clara (Paine) Calef died yester
day morning at 7 o'clock at her home in
Washington, after a day's illness with
heart trouble, having been. about the
house Wednesday morning, when the
seizure occurred. Mrs. Calef reached the
age of 67 years last June, having been
horn in Corinth. She was the widow of the
late Quincy O. Calef, to whom she was
married 20 years ago, and since that time
she bad made her home in Washington,
where she was hichlv respected. She
was an active worker in the I'niversalist
church of that place.
Mrs. Calef is survived by brother.
Scott Paine of Washington, and a sister,
Mr. Oscar Waterman of Barre Town.
Funeral services will he held at the
bouse at 1 o clock Friday afternoon.
Rer. Allcrt Smith of Willtamstown offi
ciating. Burial will l in the village
cemetery.
T. W. Barnett Officiated at Services
This Afternoon.
Funeral services for William 8. Ablwtt
of North Main street, who passed away
at the Citv hospital Wednesday morning.
after an illness of several weeks, were
held at A. W. Badger A company's mor
tuary chapel in the Morse block this
afternoon at 1 o'clock. Rev. J. W. Bar
nett of the Congregational church was
the officiating clergyman. The bearers
were: Walter Abbott of Cabot, a brother
of the deceased, Chester Walker and
Orel Barrett of Cabot and Charles A.
Badger of East Montpelier, brothers-in-law
of Mr. Abbott. A number of rela
tives from nenrby towns attended the
funeral. Interment was made in th
family lot at Elmwood cemetery.
TWO RITUALS USED
I art mi nt, how ever. It is understood, will
first pass upon tht ir status as applicants
for admission to t!e country. A special
!oard of inquiry ia expected t be or
dee I men.
The esrape from the carrr t Amlierst
was Te, te 1 hy tnnn--linjr f-t un )er
tie t'i t a p:nt t v nJ the Ttry
:n s. It was said at Cue a-; that tne
siibnay a a renarkil p of r
tmeenrg werk. involving ma: b labor.
New York. Jan. 2i. The Bethlehem
vteel corporatio;. le Ured a dividend of
.1 a shsar on common stock to day,
payable in ipiartcrly installments.
PANAMA REOrENiyG IN DOUBT.
Major Genersl Goetrals Declared Condi
tions Were Uncertain.
H it i.-ti. U. C .tn. 2i. Ma jor
.eerl tethI erapl.ed ti.e ar ie
jartment t-4av t!.-t nm-l t at the
York state. The bov. Ithouch only
year old. is six feet talL weighing !"
pounds. The father will arrive in this
city to-dav to take the bov home.
PREPAREDNESS CONFERENCE.
ARIZONA FLOODS RISING
But Tfcoe in Southern California Are
Now Receding.
I. Aniflcs. 01.. Jan. 2". Th f!od
At Funeral of James Adie, Well Known
Granite Manufacturer.
The funeral of James Adie. a well
known Barre granite manufacturer.
whose death at bis home. .i7 Franklin
street, Sunday afternoon followed a lin
gering illness. held at the boils
Wednesday afternoon at 2 o'clock. Rev.
J. W. Harnett, pastor of the Barre Con
gregational church, was -the officiating
clergyman and the bearer were: J. I.
(orskie, Ir. O. C. Stukney. William
Duncan, Fred Worcester, .lame Macks r
and .lame Imlah. Mem Item of firanite
lode. No. 3."i. F. and A. M and 1an
(.ordon. No. 12. . S. f to xhih the de
ceased belonged, attended tl,e service
and the rituals of both fraternities wer
read at the service. Interment was
made in Hop cemetery.
I-
hi.
for five dava bave cause J heavy
irr. f 1 (nniu Titkee im tr..v.l da-nace " aoutiirm la I forma are suh
si-1;r.g lO 'iay. onx m wmwn ..nmn
the river are risinff. In Yuma the safe
ty .f tiie reclamation work. wh h -on
Clerks' Notice.
Tli. re wiN li regn'ar meet-ng of
jR. C. I. P. A, l'-sl l, Fri'av. Jan. et,
icftoa for Soe.
Witsliincton. !. (' Jan. 20. Hundred tv of the reclamation work. wb;h -on-,at
of ad-te of
! i.ere to-.Uv for
l'en a ea.a! were t- un-irtata t Mr- '!t" of C-e frt eonrrew of tL train. w 'a v ed by t; fiuttds, arrived her and te-t. m. nt tome all. Iver or
it wles it woui-J reeyen. lnl Se-rity bsagije, t-iiay. 6t !i Tirfnjsir h'ssn, rec. ec
f prrjiarediies ftt'erel nj the irr--ation v stem in the lminl . tr.
Ce aeriir.j; 4,f the t! r-e v ai'-ey, i feared. S.-re of .a r , 1 f
p Tn. AM tnnt attend t rcis
1 !rrk receive . ko-it VT
re w !1 a din- aftT t He rnetirg
