Western (Sarolma Democrat
V0LXX1I1. NO 2
HENDERSONVILLE, N. C. THURSDAY JANUARY 20. 1916
1.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE J
dnson Found
r.Ful!ei
c
Guilty
Defrauding JkeMxite
Judge Adams Sentenced Him to Five
Years in State Penitentiary. An Appeal
will Probably
Case of Unusual Local Interest; 3Irs.
Fuller is leading TVltness for
State? Strong Array of Legal
Talent Fight to Finish.
Charles Jl. Carlson was found guilty
in Superior court last Saturday on the
charges of obtaining $10,000 unde
fdse pretense. The jury remained
out less than 10 minutes.
The judge, after strenuous efforts
moved by-the defense in arrest of the
judgment, overruled the pleas and
sentenced the defendant to serve five
ytars in the state penitentiary. A mo
tion was made to allow the defendant
vntil March, 1 in which to prepare pa
pers for an appeal. The state was al
lowed .thirty days after March 1 in
which to answer. : ,
The trial began Thursday morning
before -his honor,, Judge J. W. Adams.
The court room was crowded willi
spectators, an array of legal talent on
bcth sides and a number of witnesses.
Very little time was lost in selecting a
j 3Lrs. Fuller on Stand-
Mrs. Fuller, the wife of the late Dr.
David J. Fuller, of -this city, was the
first to testify for the state. She prov
ed to be the star witness and it was
ui on her testimony, largely, that the
the State .secured conviction. Her ex
amination was begun by J. F. Spain
hour, one of North Carolina's best
criminal lawyers, who assisted District
Solicitor Michael Schenck in the case.
She told' the story, of Dr. Fuller's first
meeting .Carlson and their later rela
tions, in a fdear voice and in a pleas
ing manner Rising a wonderful vocab
ulary toexpress etcasvetsrmmmm r
Mrs. Fuller told of hearing the vei
bal agreement between her husband
and Carlson,. that each were to invest
$10,000 in the Hendersonville Traction
company which was to cost $20,000.
She stated .the company actually cost
U5 000 and she was later corroborated
by U. G. Staton, former president and
grantor of the option to the defendant.
The crass examination of the wit
ness was conducted by W. A. Smith,
leading attorney for the defense.
Throughout the severe grilling she
never lost ier self Composure and a
ways gave uirect auu imtcamc cm-
svvers. An enort was maue w buuw dence whenthey made the defendant
that the witness had been criticised admit that OQ his fipst visit to Hender
since living in Hendersonville, but sonville he tad registered in a local
without results as was later substari- hctel ps man and Wife with a woman
. J A T, m I
tiated by character witnesses inciua-
mg Mrs.. Charles ' French Toms, Mrs tifted of being divorced some time later
Vv. R. Kirk and others. , - , to his first wife. The second Mrs.
Mrs. Fuller leaned over on her d- CHrls.on attended a greater part of tiu
bow for a second during her cross-ex- . tj.al S1-tting ne:rt to her husband an
amination when Attorney Smith asked j ing proceeaings.
her quickly if she was sick. Yes, The jjearing cf testimony was con-
EtviQ sue, x aixi a, ycij e. :
am suffering from diabetes brought on
hy worry and anxiety, caused by your
client, in my efforts to bring him to
justice."
U. G. Stalcn Testifies.
U. G. Staton was the next witness.
He told'of his business dealings with
Carlson in which .after several visits
on the part of the defendant to his
office he gave an option on the locl
railway stock for $15,000 of which $7.
500 were to be cas-h and the assump
tion cf a $7,500 mortgage to be made
The option was granted for the sum o
$30. Mr. Staton told of loaning Mr.
Carlson, later , his duplicate of the con
tract of the sale of the company and
his many efforts to secure a return of
same. He stated that he was unable to
this day to get the copy. He identified
ii in the court when shown among the
exhibits.
The state rested. 7
Asks ior Non-Snit,
Counsel for the defendant asked his'
honor to non suit the case upon the
grounds that the state had failed to
make out a case of false pretense
against the defendant. The judge de
cided that there was enough evidence
lo continue the trial.
Defendant Takes Stand. - .
C. A. Carlson was the first witness
to testify in his own behalf. He is a
h-rgely built man, has a pleasing ap
pearance and seemed to be a man of
wonderful self control. He took the
stand with-a volume of files and pa
pers under his arm. He was examined
by his attorney, J. E. Shipman. He
stated that he lived in New York,
Brooklyn, New Jersey and Washington.
D". C. He is 37 years old and a me
chanical engineer by trade. - He told
of inventing a number -of parts to &
gasoline engine and is the owner of a
number of patent rights which were
being manufactured by the Carlson
Motor Company. - of New ; Jersey.
Mr. Carlson - denied ever telling Dr.
Fuller that he paid $20,000 for the
Hendersonville Traction company. Ho
said that his first visnVto Henderson
ville was through the influence of Dr.
Taken
Fuller, who was on . the same train
with him coming .South one day dur
ing the winter -of OS12. Dr. Fuller, he .
said, advised him of the wonderful cli-j
matic conditions ' of Hendersonville j
and invited him to stop off there. He
was coming toJJiis section on account t
of Mrs, Carlson s health. He .told of
the friendly" relations with the Doctor
and how the doctor inquired of his ;
business when lie (the Doctor) found
that he was the. inventor of a number i
of patents. Mr. Carlson related of his
visits to the office of TJ. G. Staton, j
where he secured the option and con-
tract for the transfer of the company's
stock. He stated that it was his own
money that he gave when he paid
Messrs! Staton and D. S. Pace the $50
to bind the option. This was denied
by the state ;when later Burt Barber
was placed on the stand to testify of
when he cashed the check of Dr, Ful
ler's for $50 which was alleged to have
been the money paid "for the option.
The cancelled check was produced m
Gvi(3.ii-C
.Admits Receiving $25,000,
Mr. Carlson produced a number of
letters and ncelled vouchers per
taining to the company. Attorney
SWpman read a number of the letters
to the court. He read the letter writ
ten by Dr.. Fuller in which had been
inclosed the check for $10,000 whicu
Carson stated was for one half inter
est in the railway company and one
half interest in his patent rights owned
by Carlson and being manufactured by
the Carlson Motor company. Mr.
Carlson admitted receiving $25,00
more from Dr. Fuller. later, which was
invested in his projects and due to the
financial stringency of the market he
was unable to produce profits.
J. F. Spainhour put Carlson through
a rigid cross-examination 'for the state
in which was produced some sensa
tional evidence. Mr. Spainhour askedH
him what he put into, "the company.
The defendant answered that he put
nothing into the company except hia
experience and skill as an engineer,
It was here that Mr. Spainhour asked
one of "his characteristic questions,
"Dr. Fuller put his $10,000 in and you
your experience. You took out Dr.
Fuller's $10.t)00 and left him with ex
perience?" Damaging Evidence.
The state produced damaging evl
- - " "
h h fterward married He tes-.
eluded Fridav aiternoon wnen me ar-
sruments were begun. Attorneys vv
a . TTT
A. Smith, J. E; Shipman and W. Mar
shall Bridges spoke for the defendant
and Solicitor Michael Schenck, R. H.
Staton, Judge O. V. F. Blythe and J.
F. Spainhour pleaded forthe state.
Judge J. ' W. Adams charged the
jury for one hour and a half in a clear
and importial manner.
LOTT'S SHOE STORE SOLD
TO WHITMIRE FOR ABOUT $13,000
One of the Largest Deals Lately Closed
Last Week; Will Continue Busi
ness at Present Stand.
One of the largest business deals
closed in Hendersonville within some
time was that of the Lott's Cash shoe
store which has been sqld to W. P.
Whitmlre of this city? The purchase
price is said to have been in the neigh
borhood of $13,000.
William Lott has been in the srfoe
business here for a number of years.
He purchased the Staton shoe storp
and since then has added a number of
standard lines of footwear and gent's
furnishings. The stock of shoes is
said to be one of the largest m tm
part of the state and th store room
is one of of the finest outsiae oi asae
ville in Western North Carolina. Mr.
Lott has not announced his future
plans; but owing to other business. in-
! teTests he will remain a resident Oi,
'Hendersonville.
Mr. Whitmire came' here from F-re-vard
2 years ago to make' his home. Ho
has been in real estate business and has
traded considerable property witnin
the past year. He expects to placa
one of his sons in the shoe business
with the present clerks of the Lott
shoe store. He will conduct the store
under the firm ' name of Whitmire
Cash shoe store.-
- Optimistic Thought.
The whole of life is but a momerrf
of time.
be
KANSAS BOOSTERS TO ARBIYE
HEBE FOR AN HOUR'S STAY;
Special Train Bearing Party to ht fe?
by Greater Hendersonville Club ,'
Committee and Others.
Hendersonville citizens will have the
opportunity of entertaining ' a train
load,, of Southeastern Kansas boosters
for one hour Friday, Jan. 21.mcrn-
ing about 8:30 till 9:30 o'clock.
. The all-steel train of nine coaches
four Pullman coaches, a library,
club car. two dining cars and twa bag-
gage coaches will have aboard onpl
(hundred business men and a band ot
! twenty-four pieces. The two baesraee
cars will be filled with Southeastern
r Kansas products agricultural. indus-
trial and mineral
Southern railroad men declare it is
the biggest train of its kind ever sent,
through the South. It is costing the-
I Southeastern Kansas Association -of
1 Commercial Clubs, which is behind!
the venture, $15,00Q. In the fifteen
days' trip 5,000 miles will be traveled
and sixteen states crossed. St. Lcuis
Louisville, Nashville, Knoxville, 'Ashe?
ville .Columbia, Charleston, Jackson
ville, St. Augustine, Birmingham. Mo;
bile, New Orleans, Vicksburg, Mem
phis, Little Rock and Fort Smith are
on the itinerary. ?
The trade train represents nin
counties which are in the lower right
nana corner of tne map of Kans&s
Although geographically situated .in
the corner ,the nine counties contain
the industrial and agricultural centers
of the Kansas commonwealth. Zinc,
lead and coal are mined, and there are
rich deposits of petroleum and natural
gas. All have contributed in making
this section-the industrial center of
the state. The land is fertile, and th
conditions are most favorable for ag
fioultural pursuits. -.
Eighteen local commercial clubl
are represented in ..the associations
which was organized in 1913. : This
federation does for5" Southeast Kansas
whathe chamber f onmaercel'.TB.-Carson, sle, . This .-stock has
local - commercial r club does- for Ihtbeen moved into tffe Hytfer tbundihg
city. Its first big venture was the
trade train, similar to the present
special, which was sent 4005 mile3
ti.rough the Eastern states in the
spring of 1914.
The booster band will play for
i those who visit the train. Everyone
is invited to greet the visitors and to
go through the exhibit cars, which
will contain much of interest. Souve
nirs will be distributed to every vis
itor. ' -. .
Poor Father!
A Scottdale (Pa.) man got the baby
to sleep easily for the first time in
four years and refused to shoot at a
burglar for fear of awakening the
child. Few men have been so hard
put, and proper resolutions of indorse
ment will doubtless be passed by the
Fathers' club. BuSalo News.
BOOSTEES
, What is meant by "boost?" Literally, it means "lift up." To
give a "boost" means to elevate above the dead level. It isn't good
English, but it is expressive American slang. -
Dead men never boost. Neither can you boost them. You CAN
raise them up, but it is better to bury them. Let go of them, and
they fall of their own dead weight. You can tell a man is dead by
his willingness to lie supine. Do you get me? "Dead ones" can't
be. boosters. '
A booster is n. fellow who tries to elevate the conditions of his
business of his town or his fellows by raising them from the dead
horizontal to a living perpendicular. He knoWs that he must go
ahead or fall behind;, that it is impossible to stand still. . . . v
Now, what kind of boosters are there? "
First of all, there are the' "hip-hurrah" boys. All excitement,
waving flags, torch-light procession, head . lines in red ink. They
serve their purpose, but the. main, thing they produce is a set of res
olutions liberally be-sprinkled with floury adjectives.
Then there is the booster "with a chip." That is the fellow whq,
is willing to boost providing you boost his way. He takes offense
easily and invites argument. If his logic fails, he produces the
"resignation" argument.
Possibly next comes the balky booster. He is full of sugges
tions, but balk3 when the time comes to carry them out. He is
filled with advlc for someone else to 'follow. He i3 first cousin to
the "shirker" who avoids work and second cousin to the "jerker"
who only works when the spirit moves him.
And then there is the booster that lives in the past. He will tell
you that he has done more boosting for his town than anybody:
paid out more money for the town than lots of people who are now
doing something; was the originator of this idea t.d the executor
of that. He holds to the' idea that he has done enough; that his
day of . usefulness has been well s"pent and that now, as the worli
falls into gentle decay, he for one is going to rest. His motto is.
ready for the grave. No man has finished his work as long as there"
is something for humanity left undone.
Finally. Lord bless 'em, are the fellows that STAY and PAY.
These are the consistent boosters. And just remember that con
sistency means "close adhesion." It means get-up-early-in-the
morning-and-stay-late-at-selfsacrificing-stick-to-it-ness.
The consistent booster talks and he works. He says, but he does.
He hurrahs with keen zest; he consigns his chips to the fire. He
is too busy to shirk, too much in earnest to jerk, has too little time
to argue and when he ventures advice, he is willing to put his
scheme to the test. - . . -
This is the fellow who has a-definite object. To him the interest
of hig town and its enterprise mean more than anythng e'se. He is
a .cart cf PROGRESS. He sticks. He. adheres. He SAYS and he
STAYS and he .PAYS. And he does it ALL OF TH3 TIME. This
is the thing that counts. ' . . . .
NOW, if it is a fair question, on what peg have you hung: YOUR
hat? (With apologies to ' E. O. Tilburne.) Community Builder,
Erie. Pa. .
Superintendent of Graded School; Sich
Only Few, Days With Pneumonia;
Leaves Wife and Children,
' Prof. G.C, Briggs, superintendent of
the-graded school, died suddenly Wed
nesday night at 9 o'clock of pneumo
nia. He had been critically ill for
several days . and when the crisis
came his heart gave way to the strain.
His death was a shock to the city.
The school will remain closed the rest
of the week. Funeral services will be
held at the First Baptist church Fri
day morning at 11 o'clock. The school I
children will attend the services in a;
Dody and marcn to aepot atter tne
services. The body of the deceased
will be shipped to Waynesville, the
former home , of Prof. Briggs, where
interment will be made. ;
Prof. Briggs was well known
through Henderson county. He taught
in Judson college here for five years
and later moved tp Waynesville' where
he entered the newspaper field. He
was editor and p. vttr of the Waynes
viilfi .Cnnrifir for u TiiimliGr nf vears.
He was considered one of the leading ! c?ncem will issue a volume of adver
ftfhinfctinnai . wnrkorq nf Wfistflm NtorHi i tismg matter. A business announce
Carolina
4. The deceased leaves a wife, three
daughters Misses Marguerite, Helen
and Lois, and one son, Gaither C. Jr.
Prof. Briggs was considered a man of
moderate means. He owned propertj
in; Haywood county.
: The pall bearers will be composed
of the board of school . trustees. .The
.sympathy of the entire community is
extended to the bereaved family.
BOB FREEMAN BUYS STOCK.
Purchased From Dock Hyder & Son
Stock of T. B. Cerson Sale; Will
Conduct the Business.
, R. P. Freeman has purchased from
H D.. Hyder & Son the entire stock of
merchandise recently' bought . at the
next door to the old Carson stand and
is now being sold at a great sacrifice
sale. Mr. Freeman announces in this
vA ma ivio w x -
plenish his shelves from time to time
and in the near future he will begin
buying eross ties and wood. He is
now . fbuying produce of all kinds in
payment of merchandise
Eight years ago Freeman left the
mercantile business almost at the
same stana ne now occupies auer
spending ten years of his life behind
the counter selling goods.' He is en
thusiastic over prospects and states
that he has already secured some of
his old customers who traded with him
many years ago.
Fame. V
Fame is nothing more or less than
disinfected notoriety. "
- Jk rt SPk ! ' SWfc ff" ft m i- m am
1 M -Mm f ULAItHbD
NEW REAL ESTATE FIRM.
Messrs. B. Jackson and K. G. Morris
Form Real Estate and Insurance
. Business; Mr. Morris Manager.
A new real estate .insurance and
renting concern has begun business in
Hendersonville. "The name of the
new concern has not been announced
Put lt win be composed of the follow-
mg gentlemen : Bro wnlo w Jackson
and K. G. Morris. Mr. Morris wii:
have active charge of the business.
K.-G. Morris is one of the best
known business men in , Henderson
county. He is thoroughly familiar
with every part 'of the city and county
which will be a great benefit to him
in the real estate business. HeTstated
to a Hustler representative that busi
ness has already picked up beyond his
expectations. He is now busy listing
j j. , . 4,,
n-Lh auu iarius ror saie. ine newitript n w t...-Jt -.
I vv 11 uc carnea in mis paper next.
week.
Mr. Morris resigned the office of
vice president of the First Bank &:
Trust company the first of the year to
enter the real estate . business. The
new concern has taken, over the in
surance and real estate department
of the bank. - . '
Offices will be fitted up in the Smith
building where the Postal telegraph
office is now. The telegraph office
company, will vacate about the first of
February.
BOY SCOUTSOF AMERICA ;
ORGANIZED BY RET. WRIGHT
Three Patrols A7iready Formed" With
Prospects of Many More to Enter
.Later; Plans Outlined. ' 'V ' i
vTieTorgitnf ,a7trpopTof Boy
Scouts of America affiliating with the
national organization of that name has
.; fceen formed under the leadership. of
, icev. ueo. t vvrignt pastor or tne nast
Hendersonville Baptist church. The
first meeting was held last Saturday
and at a later meeting Monday after-
I iwu tu.v uuai jJicxiJ.t3 ncic put m
rTi tirn
I About thirtv bova have sismifipd their
j willingness to become members of the
, jocal troop, and are divided in the fol
lowing patrols:
Patrol One Harry Sample, patrcl
leader; Allen Rhodes, assistant patrol
leader; Gus Staton, James Brown,
Earl Hallman, Alex Ross, Gene Wil
liams, Horace Gray.
Patrol Two Robert Carson, patrol
leader; Reginald Morris, assistant - pa -
uei ieaaer; vviiiiam jrioages, llarry
Reed, Henry Green, Forest Hunter,
Lewis Durham, Reese Pope.
Patrol Three Harold Bangs, patrol
leader;. Clifton Lott, assisant patrol
leader; Ralph Green, Alonzo Gilreath,
Raymond Staton, James Reese, Wade
Boling, Sol L. Reese. Leonard Harris..
Albert Bangs, Gaither Rhodes, Roy:
Williams.
George F. Wright was elected Scout
master. The following gentlemen
compose the scout committee: Rev. T.
E. Simpson. Dr. J. Frank Cranford and
W. Marshall Bridges.
The organization of the "Boy Scouts
ol America" is in no sense military,
and the scout law embodies the foun
dation principles of Christian man
hood and character. . " The law . is
twelve parts as follows:
1. A scout is trustworthy.
2. A scout is loyal. .
3. .A scout is helpful.
'4. A scout is friendly.
5. A scout , is courteous.
6. - A scout is Jcjnd.
7. A scout is obedient.
. 8. A scout is cheerful.
1 5 . TTT ft - T T w
9. A scout is thrifty.
10. A scout is brave.
11. A scout is clean.
12. A scout is reverent.
The only promise or oath of any
k?nd a. scout is required to make is as
follows:; - . ; -
On My Honor I Will Do My Best
. io ao ray auty to uod and my
country., and to obey the scout law.-' --j
at all
times.
3. To keep , myself : physically
strong, - mentally awakei and morally
straight. ...
The Scout motto is "Be Prepared."
The Scout"' Slogan is "Do a - Goo
Turn Daily." ;
Only , boys between the ages, of 12
and 18 are permitted to join the organ
isation, except those who have for
merly been members of a troop.
All regularly registered Scouts in
, the Hendersonville territory ; are most
cordially mvited to meet and register
with the local troop which meet every
j Monday at 4:00 p. m. with Geo. F.
j Wright, at the Richelieu. ; -
Optimistic Thought.
Nothing dries sooner than a tear. '
t
LAND OWNERS HAVE PETITIONED,
COURT TO CARRY OUT PLlNS
OF BILL PASSED IN THE
LAST LEGISLATURE.
A plan by which some of the very
best - farming lands in HenaeLon
county are to be brought into primo
on r h cultiTati0 is being worked -out
by local parties. ;
mS er a legislative act any: com.
mumty may on petition of property
holders interested establish- I JLil
age district. . Acting under this nro-
viMun or law, w. C. Jordan and other
P.operty holders owning land along
Mud Creek and its tributaries, all in
tast Hendersonville township, mad
application' to the Clerk of the Supe
nor court for the appointment of an
I pUrnoSe of r nt Y Vc7 xr
iP.mpose or creatine? a .rfra nacra
&mcci ana two "viewers" for- th-
civil engineer and O.E. Blythe, of Mills
: ""uw was appointed
ana u. Jr. Jrittillo . of the Fruit -land
section were .appointed "viewers."
Recently the preliminary-report of
these officials was filed with the
clerk of the court and was favorable
to the project. The court on receiv
ing the favorable . report ordered the '
engineer and viewers to make a furth
er and more detailed report of condi
tions, which must include a complete
survey, plans and specifications of all
proposed improvements. This second
report must be in the hands of the
clerk not later than sixty "days after
the v preliminary survey has been
filed. The officers 'appointed by the V
court are at work now on the second
survey and expect to have "the material
in hand before , the time allowance vis
exhausted: : . ;;:; : .-ii'yyx
v In the , preliminary report as filed
with the clerk, the petitioners pro
pose to establish .a drainage district
ownaIud ';jreek :Drainage ."Dis
trict n Henderson" county V-
In thereporC it is'set out that after
a preliminary survey had beeh made-:
the scheme to drain Mud Creek, and:
tributaries, was found to he both feas.
ible and practicable, and will .be off
great value to land owners. Further,
ii is attested to that not only the pro
perty holders along these streams will
be benefitted, but that the whole city
of Hendersonville will feel beneficial
results, because of the fact, that at
present the stagnant water to be found
at all times within the boundaries of
the proposed district, is a constant
breeding place for disease and mo3
quitoes are always present wbere wa
ter is permitted to remain .. stagnant.
In- addition to this ' feature, the report
; asserts that by deeping and widening
the canal it will remove a standing
menace to the health of the town in
the widened and deepened waterway tD
oe created. - ..... . ,
Another feature of the report is
that by the proposed measures ' tin
constant and damaging overflow?
along Mud Creek and tributaries wil
be eliminated. The canal and branch
proposed will be made of sufficient di
mentions to take care of a tremen
dously increased volume of water,
such as covered the bottom- lands
along Mud Creek after the recent
storm. ' Also, the damage and incon
venience caused to public highways by .
reason of constantly, being' overflowed,
the surveyors believe will be -. done -away
with entirely if the, project goes
through. It is pointed out further
that . property holders planting imme
diately on the banks of the proposed
canal need not fear repetitions of those
damaging floods which have hitherto
made planting there v a risk. There
ai e other alleged benefits to be deriv
ed from the carrying cut of the canal
project, but in the main those set. out'
above cover the more important points.
I In area and in the quality of land
. embraced under the proposed .plan,
nothing even remotely approacSirrgyf'
nas ever been undertaken in Mender-
son county. The engineer s suryey
shows that the proposed district 'will
embrace Mud Creek proper, and the-.
Devil's fnrl anrf tho Pp.t.'a Wood forlr'
nf Mud flreek. nk well as some lands
iying along smaUer tributaries." One
mav cMsn fhp. extent of the undertak
ing when one is informed that the
survey covers a distance of more than
thirteen miles lying' along Mud Creek
and its tributaries. In this is includ
ed, more than 1500 acres cf the very
best bottom land' to lie found in the
county, lying directly, or nearly so,
along the water-courses mentioned
The benefits of good drainage, pf
course, will be felt for some consider
able distance from the water-course,'
bu t . these lands ; are not included : in
the total acres coming under the sur
vey's report. It is set out in the first
report, that Tlud Creek will have to be
deepened and widened for a distance
of approximately two and a half
miles. , ' Also, a new water-course
(Continued on Page 8.)
