PRESIDENT WILL OPEN PREPAREDNESS FIGHTS-WASHINGTON, Jan. 21. President Wilson will open the fight for national preparedness with a speech in
Pittsburgh. His itinerary calls for speeches in Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, Des Moines, Davenport. Plans are being made for a second tour which will probably in
clude the far west. Denver is being held under consideration.
CORONATION OF CHINESE EMPEROR POSTPONED PEKIN, Jan. 21. The coronation of Yuan Shi Kai as Emperor of Chian has .been postponed indefinitely.
The reason officially given is the uprising in Southern China. Various legations notified that Yuan cancelled plans to hold coronation in February.
FIVE NEGROES LYNCHED IN GEORGIA ALBANY, Ga., Jan 21. Five negroes were taken from the Wor,th County jail at Sylvester and hanged to one limb of a tree
on the outskirts of Starkville during the night. The bodies were found this morning riddled with bullets.
URGE BLOCKADE: LONDON, Jan. 21. The Times today prints prominently the blockade proclamation issued by Abraham Lincoln, and makes it the text of an
editorial leader, urging a' like blockade of Germany. .
HANGING AT FOLSOM: SACRAMENTO, Jan. 21. Rito Pargas was today hanged at Folsom for the murder of Frank Amador and Damiar Chavez, in Kern county.
Both men had been shot from Ambush.
TEUTONIC BOOTY: LONDON, Jan. 21. An Amsterdam dispatch describes the Teutonic booty for the 17 months of war, as being nearly 3,000,000 prisoners; .10,000
guns, 40,000 machine guns, while 470,000 square. kilometres of the enemy country is now occupied by the Central powers. ,.-4 v -
ANOTHER DENIAL: VIENNA, Jan. 21. The announced press reports that Montenegro has discontinued peace negotiations, are entirely unfounded. ;
ARIZONA
YUMA SOUTHWEST
VOLUME XLVI, NUMBER 8
YUMA, ARIZONA, THUSSDAY, JANUARY 20, 1916
Roosevelt Discusses
Immigration Problems; P
raises German Efficiency
Under the Theme "Fear God and Take Your
Own Part" Colonel Touches Wide Range of
Discussion on Topics of National Interest
(Associated Press)
PHILADELPHIA, Jan.
21. With denunciation of
what he termed Germany's
"cynical disregard of the ob
ligations of international hu
manity" on one hand and!
with high praise for German!
"national efficiency" and
care of its workers on thej
other, Theodore Roosevelt j
delivered the principal ad-
dress before the National
Conference on Americaniza
tion here last night.
The meeting was held in
the Metropolitan Opera
House and was part of a two
days' session, at which prob
lems of immigration were
considered.
Under the theme of "Fear God and
Take Your Own Part," Colonel Roose
velt touched a wide range of discus
sion. He appealed to America to ful
fill her promises of liberty and equal
opportunity to the people who come
from foreign lands, declaring that to
be the first essential in transforming
them into desirable citizens.
Germany had, he said, proved that
vice to humanity unless as people they
care of its working classes and its
business interests at the same time
IANTA FE IB
HIGH YUMA TODAY
(By B. F. Fly)
; At-10:15 o'clock this morn
ing Yuma had the pleasure of
welcoming 117 passengers
who alighted from a Santa
Fe train at the Southern Pac
ific hotel where they were gi- j
ven breakfast, Manager ,
Frank Ming doing every-1
thing possible to serve a meal ;
that the visitors would long1
remember with pleasure.
The arrival of this train,
one of ten Santa Fe trains!
due here during the day,1
puts Yuma on the map in a'
manner never before enjoyed
for so far as the old time rail-!
road men can remember this
was the first Santa Fe pas
senger train that ever passed
through Yuma, indicating
that as bad as have been the
'conditions on the Southern1
Pacific they are infinitely!
better than on the Santa Fe. !
The passenger train sei-!
vice through Yuma today re
minded one very much of su-,
burban street car service in
the large cities, for a train
passed one way or the other!
every few minutes. Yuma'
was on her very best behav-j
ior, from a weather stand-;
point, for the sky was as clear
as a bell, and the sun came
down with the rays of spring
time. It was a great sight for
the visitors on the Santa Fe,
for they had just come thru
snow, sleet and ice, making
our delightful climate all the
more appreciated. President
Kirkpatrick and Secretary
Alexander of the - Commer
cial club were on hand in be
half of that organization to
extend the visitors a most
hearty welcome. Among
those on the train in his spec
ial car was President F. E.
House, of the Duluth & Iron
Mountain railroad on his
way to spend the balance of
the winter in Pasadena. Of
course he didn't know it, but
Yuma has Pasadena skinned
a city block and some of these
good days the people of the
east and north will be flock
ing to Yuma for the winter
just as in years past they
have been going to points in
California, many of which
are now almost wiped off the
map, or so submerged that
they are only good for duck
ponds, while Yuma is high
and dry, with the finest cli
mate on earth.
CHINESE POLITICAL
ss
ED
(By B. F. Fly)
Congressman Carl Hayden
has introduced a bill in Con
gress to provide for nation
al U 1 i.r.
a.i am lu uiet, acvci ai siaica
in the construction and main
tenance of rural post roads
(H. R. 7614) that has more
EX-PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT
and the aim of the United States
should be to demonstrate that .a dem
ocracy could accomplish the same
things.
Military training starting in the
high schools of the country, greater
governmental control over corpora
tions and likewise lessened state con
trol, together with federal supervision,
and encouragement of the manufacture
of munitions were other questions
urged by the speaker.
''In a book which has long been a
favorite in our family, one of tiie char
acters sum up the duty of man as
being to 'Fear God and take your own
part,' " Col Roosevelt said. "Surely
it is just as good a motto for a nation
as for a man. We fear God when we
do justice to and demand justice from
the men within our own borders. We
must do it to the weak and we must
do it to the strong. We must organize
our social and industrial life so as to
secure a reasonable equality of oppor
tunity for all men to show the stuff
that is in them and a reasonable di
vision among those engaged in indus
trial work of the reward for that in
dustrial work.
"Outside of our own borders we
must treat other nations as we wish
to be treated in return, judging each in
any given crisis as we ourselves ought
to be judged, that is, by our conduct
in that crisis. If we are really de
voted to a high ideal, we must insofar
as our strength permits aid those who
are wronged by others. When we sit i
idly by when Belgium is being over-j
whelmed, and, rolling up our eyes, '
prattle with unctuous self-righteous-:
ness about the duty of neutrality, we
show that we do not really fear God;
on the contrary, we show on odius fear
of the devil and a mean readiness to
serve him."
The nation should, the colonel said,
(Continued on Page Two)
pie in the rural districts they
will lose no time in enacting
this bill into a law. It is full
of good hard common sense,
(Associated Press)
PEKING, Jan. 21. Dr. Paul S.
Reinsch, American Minister to China,
was elected first vice-president of the
Chinese Social and Political Science
Association, which was formally or
ganiled yesterday at a meeting held in
the foreign office and attended chief
ly by Chinese and American officials
and scholars.
The president of the new association
is Lu Cheng-hsiang. the Chinese Min
ister of (Foreign Affairs. Tsao Ju-lin, than ordinary merit in it, and
vice-Minister of Foreign Afairs, is the if his fellow Congressmen are
secretary of the new organization, and at aJ inclinecl to do SOme
Wu Chao-Chu, Councillor for the For-' ... . .
eien Office, and the son nf Dr. Wn. ' o " "
the former Minister for China to the
United States, was made treasurer.
Among the members of the execu
tive council are Dr. W. F. Willoughby,
legal adviser to the Chinese govern
ment, who was formerly treasurer' of
Porto Rico, and Ronald Macleay, the
Councillor of the British Legation.
Dr. Reinsch and Welington Koo, the
present Chinese Minister to Washing
ton, first suggested the association
and initiated the plans which resulted
yesterday in the formal organization.
Dr. Y. T. Tsur and all the members
of the faculty of the Tsing Hua Col
lege, which is supported chiefly thru
American boxer indemnity money,
which the American government re
funds to China, are active members.
Dr. Henry C Adams of the University
.of Michigan, who is temporarily in
Chin reorganizing the system of ac
counting for Chinese railways, has
also assisted in organizing the associa
tion. Dr. Reinsch was the chief speaker
at yesterday's meeting, and outlined
the plans of the association, which
he believes will result in much bene
fit to the Chinese government through
a scientific study of law, politics, soci
ology, economics and administration
in China. The association will pub
lish a magazine in which the original
work of the members will appear. Dr.
Reinsch predicted that this magazine
in English will do much to familiarize
the world with China's internal prob
lems, and result in a general inter
change of ideas, which will be benefi
cial to Chinese political systems.
INTRODUCES
A GOOD BILL IN CONGRESS
of this the government will
pay not less than thirty nor
more than fifty per cent of
its construction cost.
That simply means that if
we have a postal route or a
free delivery route and want
the road madeJietter,. we can
get thirty to fifty per- cent- of
the amount from Uncle Sam,
if we can convince him that
the good road is- actually
needed or will be a benefit to
the community.
A good many years ago a
bill somewhat similar was in-
and why such a measure has troduced in Congress which"
not long since been enacted guaranteed that the govern
seems rather strange to say ment would pay one-half the
the least. I expense of the construction
The bill provides for the of any road that any state
propriation of $25,000,000 by might see fit to construct,
the government, to be pro-.That was something like 20
rated among the various years ago. I can not now
states according to the fol- recall whatever became of
lowing provisions; "One-the measure, but certainly
third thereof according: to not very many roads were
constructed under its pro
visions. But this bill, havine
While Mr. Ford and his peace part
were out of the country, peace gained
a big victory. The baseball war is
over. Kansas City Star.
Brand Whitlock has nothing to say
about the war. Naturaly he feels tha.
he doesn't know as much about it as
other people. Detroit Journal.
"One long record of triumphs," we
used to read" about famous singers.
Now we can revise it to "One long
triumph of records." The Musical
Courier.
the number of Senators and
Representatives to which
each state, respectively is eng
titled in the Congress of the
United States, one-third in
the ratio which the area of
each state bears to the total
area of the United States,
and the remaining one-third
in the ratio which the mile
age of star routes and rural
free delivery routes of each
state shall bear to the total
mileage of star routes and
rural delivery routes of the
United States, as shown by
the records of the Post Of
fice Department for the first
day of July preceding such
apportionment."
In order for any state to
take advantage of the law it
must first have a state high
way engineer, or otner sucn
officer having authority to
supervise and direct the con
struction of such road work;
the state must also agree to
maintain the road after it
shall have been built; and be
fore any government money
is expended the Secretary ot
Agriculture must be satisfied
as to its feasibility and nec
essity, and being convinced
chosen mail routes should ar
once attract atention. Uncle
Sam is always interested in
getting his letters and news
papers to his constituents as
quickly as possible. The bill
is a good one.
The man who isn't used to public
speaking always remembers the
speech that he intended to say just
after he has sat down. Macon News.
Villa may be an excellent fighter
but he shows poor financial judgment
in dropping out during the Chautau
qua dull season. Washington Post.
Practically all the papers we see
appear unanimously to have found
Henry Ford guilty of doing as he
likes with his own money. Colum
bia State.
The failure of a postoffice inspector
to find the lost treasure of the Incas
goes far toward strengthening the
opinion that Peru was at one time a
South American republic. Washing
ton Post.
The report from New York to the
effect that coal dealers who sell by
the -basket "make a profit of $20 a
ton" is a story of combined highway
robbery, burglary, grand larceny, and
brigandage.--Chattanooga Times,
