ft
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
'Jty s
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, "OREGON, THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 1916
PUTr TYVfl rWTMTQ 0N TRAILS AND NEWS
1 tV U Kj&n lO STANDS FIVE CENT3
A 1 ni Pit'' A ti m f fl
If ito Mil Mr- I mnnm
ALLIES HAVE
ON B IN POLICES
-3
AH Europe Watching eece
MayGoToGreec rontier King Constantine Restless
Under Pressure- ..' Premier Yenizelos May Head Revo
lution Ta Dethrone Constantine Rumania Gives Hint
She May Cast Her Lot With Ales
London, Jan. 20. The allies have definitely agreed
over their future military and diplomatic policies in the
Balkans, it was stated today following the departure of
the French members from the allied war council.
"Any situation which may arise within the near future
will be dealt with firmly, the world may be assured," was
the statement from a well informed source. .
Greece, it is understood ,was the principal subject of
the conference. Athens became the center of military
and diplomatic attention with receipt of reports that the
kaiser had arrived in the Balkans, presumably to go to
the Greek frontier; with Berlin reporting that King
Constantine is restless under the economic pressure ex
erted by the allies; and with information that Rumania
is keeping watch on Athens developments.
Berlin is convinced that the allies plan either to have
Ex-Premier Venizelos head the Greek nation through a
revolutionary move against Constantine, or to force
Greece to join the allied ranks by cutting off supplies,
thus threatening starvation.
Sofia authorities have notified Berlin that the situa
tion is particularly critical, hinting at the same time that
Rumania may join the entente powers should the latter
make a successful coup in Greece.
Home, .Tun. 20. TliO Montenegrins
lave renewed hostilities against Aus
tria, it was 'officially announced today.
He(iorts linil been cur-rent Unit Alls
hi. in peace terms were not satisfactory
to Montenegro, though she a few Juys
ego nsked an end to the struggle.
The .Montenegrin minister niiormcii:
the foreign office that King Nicholas I
.lid the Montenegrin government had!
refused all the Austrian terms. More
over, the Montenegrin prime minister
sent a message declaring that fighting
lad been resumed on u 11 fronts, anil
luat ivmg .Mcnoias is wuu ns iiui'i'!".
To Relieve ICul el-Amara.
London, .Ian. 20. Oonernl Aylmer'9
relief exedition lius advanced to with
in seveii miles of the beleaguered lirit
inli garrison at Kulolariinia, Mesopo
t tniia, without encountering the enemy,
iccordiug to announcement in the
l ouse of commons today.
Central Powers Eotlre.
Tomlon, .Ian. 20 Troops of the cen
t ,nl powers, nre letiring from the Creels
1 rontier in preparation for an attack
I y the allies, the Mail Salonika corres
pondent cabled today. II is message
.-.lid that the Teutons are destroying
fudges in their path, and it claimed. '
tun, that the AusTro-Hcrinnii infantry'
Mid cavalry are withdrawing from
onnstir.
Considers Plan of Action,
Koine, Jan. 20. The Italian cabinet
ri.Minidei ed today the plan of concerted
iiction in the li-.illur.s, which it is mi-
u'lMoiid the allies are' arranging.
Whether this means more Italians will
to to Albania for an ofefnsive against
Hie Austrians and Hulgars is not
I uowii. '
Eritifh Liner in Distress.
Halifax, .. S., Jan. 20. Kvidently
in distress, the liriti.tli liner Pollen
tin. 70 miles off Cape Knee snapped
t Abe Martin
Tan can't tell nte more about
r. feller by th' size car he ilrives than
.ion kin by th' size hat he wears, Th'
tidier Hint's goin' t' t'i' devil is nllu
.'hiK'ui' fer (omebuddy t' go witd
1 inf!
Mi
AGREED
Kaiser Visits Balkans and
St::;.:
$
. SANK 1,073 SHIPS
M London, Jan. 20. Since the
beginning of the war to No-
venilier 30, submarines and
mines have sunk 1,073 British
merchantmen, it was officially
stated in tbo house of commons
M otday.
!fcit!(s!ss!Ji
out a wireless tall for aid today, an
nouncing her pumps were unablo to
check the rush of water into her. The
(linsoppe Vnrdi headed to her rescue.
The Pollentiu is believed to be in the
admiralty service.
I
Hoke Smith Says England's
Blockade Is To Depress
Cotton Prices
Washington, Jan, 20. Declaring
i.ngianit s real purpose in having a
blockade against Oermnny is to de
press the price of cotton for her own
benefit, Senator Hoke Smith today de
manded vigorous action for protection
of American rights,
He asserted that Oermnny has sub
stituted wood-cellulose for cotton as a
base for explosives, and that she has"
plenty of tooil except possibly milk.
England knows this, lie added, but the
llritish mills have benefited from the
consequent lower prices of the cotton
staple.
The Diitish claim that the United
States placed cotton on the contraband
list during the Civil war, the senator
branded as "sillily false." further,
lie pointed out that when Russia, dur
ing the Japanese war, placed cotton on
the contraband list, England's strict
protest against this coimo had caused
the Slavs to rescind their decree
Indian Carried Wire
WhereWhites Failed
T,o Angeles, Cnl., Jan. 20. Return
ing from stringing urw wires across
tho l'nln river break not far from
P.scnndido, Pacific Telephone & Tele
graph company employes today gave nil
the credit to an unnamed Tula Indian.
When aviating refused to attempt
flying over the gap mid the flood with
new cables, the lndinn volunteered. A
rope was tied around his chest. Hi
dove into the torrent, which was run
ning nearly a quarter if n mile wide
and laden with debris. Diving undo!
logs and floating rubbish, he kept' go
ing right through the current to tlie op
posite bank. Then he hauled the wirei
across and linemen soon completed Ihr
circuit.
The mnn who feels like being fclckf
seldom allows another the pleasuro o
doing it.
NOTED SCULPTOR PROPOSES TO CARVE THE
oivjmri MuuniAiiM mm a wuiNLmitF ul CONFEDERATE MEMORIAL
m
'.in V
j Stone Mountain at Atlanta, Ca.;
LfiHtiPD. Bnrglum, the sculptor.
Atlnnta, Oa., Jan. 20. (Special.)
A "memorial to a movement" is
(lutzon Borglum's own name for
the biggest sculptural undertaking in
the history of the world. It requires
a granito mountain, across the face
of which Mr. Borglum will carve a
grent friczo, 2,000 feet long and 50
feet wide. Tho work will consume
most of tho sculptor's thought and
energies during the next 80 yens.
Stone Mountain, near Atlanta, is to
bo transformed by him into t.ie
"Great Confederate Memorial," at
an expenditure cf $2,000,000 a me
morial to tho south of 'G4, buit by
the south of today.
The great characters of those days
nre to be reconstructed out of the
side of this mountain. They will be
carved in high niu full relief, in ac
tion, mounted and on foot, follow
ing the mountain's contour, they will
be moving across the face of it
naturally toward the cast in the ar
rangement of two wings of an army.
KecaiiBO they will be in scale with
the mountain, which is 700 feet high,
tho figures will bo colossal, reaching,
including the horses, 35 to 50 feet in
height, or about five times the size
of tiic Lion of Lucerne.
Mr. Borglum 's groupings will rep
resent the official heiids of the south,
including officers, also cavalry, artil-
FOR DIPLOMATIC FIGHT
England and United States
Loading Big Guns With
Paper Wads
Washington, Jan. 20. Both the Uni
ted States and Knglnnd are digging
their diplomatic trenches for the bat
tle in England's expected actual
blockade of Germany. Tho stato de
partment and Downing street have
notes on tho subject in tho course of
propa ration.
Authorities slid today the diplo
matic success England in executing the
proposed blockade will bo contingent
upon meeting American objections
thereto. England's note of the sub
ject of general commercial interference
is almost ready to be transmitted to
Ambassador I'age at London; mean
time, tho American note will wait on
receipt thereof.
Stato department experts Buy that
tliig'inid must rupture "only a high
pirci-ntngo" and not all of blockade
rumors, to establish an actual 'n'ir
light" blockade as required by inter
national law. Jt is agreed that Ger
many is already practically blockaded,
except for goods sent to Scandinavian
countries and then into Germany via
the llultic.
Hut this Baltic supply source is re
tarded ns less valuable to Germany
than is popularly believed, inasmuch
as it is known that at least 20 mer
chantmen havo been sunk by liussian
and British submarines in that area
in the last six months. The crews ol
Mieso victims woro landed in Sweden.
Hut, how many more were sunk, with
tl.eir crews landed in Germany, is only
problematical.
.Declaring Dividend
Knocks Bethlehem Steel
(Copyright 181(1 bv New York Evening
Post.)
New York, Jan. 20. Nothing could
better illustrate tho character of the
-ecent speculation in war stocks than
'he manner in which the stock market
'oday received tho announcement of a
'lividoncin Betleliem common and pre
ferred, whereas the common Mock never
niid any beroro. Tho president warned
'ho public that the company's policy at
iresent is to reinvent its earning in the
nlnnt, and these earnings presumnldy
ire larger than havn been anticipated.
The ,')0 per cent common cash ilivi
1ind payable quarterly from last year's
-writings, so fur from advancing the
tock, broko it 25 points, and the other
var stocks also declined.
Anywhere else this would be a para
'ox, but Wall street with the assistance
f the speculative outsido public had
"untied Itself for the Inst year in bid
'ing up the stock to a figure, "di
oiinting" the dividends to a point far
'eyond today's niinnuiueinent.
These are fine, made to-order even
ings for tho letter writers,
hi-
1 v i 'V '
lery, and infantrdy. Tho foremost
men in the 'different branches of the
servise from each stato will be rep
resented. Mrs. f. Helen Plane,
president of tho Monument Associa
tion, and honorary president of tho
Daughters of the Confederacy, and
William II. Terrill, a lnwycr of At
lanta, havo received tho credit for
the idea of erecting a memorial to
the southern cause Tho mountain
was owned by Samuel Vcnnbln of
Atlanta, mid he and his heirs have
given it for this purpose.
"What interested mo in this monu
IS VILLA'S REPLY
Rebel Leader From Mountain
Fastness Sends "Defii"
to Carranza
BODIES CF BANDITS TO
BE DISPLAYED NAKED
Carranza Orders War of Ex
termination On Villa and '
His Gang
El 1'aso, Texas, Jan. 20. From Oen
ernl Francisco Villus stronghold in
the .Sierra Mndres enmo today a defi
to General Carritnzn, following the hit
ter's issuance of nn order proclaiming
Villa's life forfeit on sight.
"Come and get me," wns tho sub
stance of the rebel eliieftnin 's chal
lenge which filtered through tho Car
rair.istu followers, waging a enmpnign
of extermination against Villa and his
band its.
. From this defiance, ('nrran.istn lead
ers interpret that Villa intends to make
n last ditch fight when cornered. They
believe he will stnigglo with the fiitni
istic nliiiiiilon that minks most Mex
icans; hence they scarcely expect to
take him alive.
Cafninza's proclamation is but a
formality; Villa could scarcely escape
even without il, unco tho Ciirrniizistiis
tracked him. But the rebel lender is in
a secure hiding spot In tho mountains,
and none but his most trusted lenders
can approach him. Frqm his secluded
den, his men have been making unex
pected thrusts for food and loot ninniig
the ranc hes of Western Chihuahua anil
northern Purnngo, leaving a truil of
terror and horror.
Already some of Villa's hidden stories
of ammunition havo been captured, in
addition to soiiin of his bandits. Ex
ecution of tho latter is sjatcd for Chi
huahua City,
In the group are somo of the men
responsible for the massacres of 18
Americans at Hnutn Ysnbel, In pursu
ance of the ('iirrnii7.lstn enmpnign of
"I'rightfiilness," their bodies will be
displayed, naked, lu a public spot.
Publication today of the official re
port nn the mutilations of the Rautn
Ysabel victims renewed tho nntl Mcx
lean feeling here.
The report showed soft nosed bullets
had torn, a gaping hole in one body;
that other victims hnd been sabred;
that most of the corpses showed bruises
GOME ANOGET IE'
PROCLAMATION
SOLID GRANITE OF
45
y c j i
ment," said Mr. Borglum, "is that it
is not-a statue to Lee, or Jackson,
much as i admire those men. Tho
soason I am so keen about it and I
am keen about it is not that it is
tho biggest thing that over has been
attempted in the world. It is what
tho Egyptians tried to do, and the
Grecians wanted to do; neither had
the timo nor tho place.
"What interests mo in this monu
ment in tho south is that it repre
sents the first effort in this country
to build a memorial to a cause, with
out singling out an individual. That
is what the Greeks always did, and
they were so conscious of doing it
that it was against the law to make
a statue to an individual. They were
always building to tho ideal. That is
why this thing interests me; it is
tho first effort in Amorica to b'uild a
monument to a nation, to a move
ment of a hundred thousand or ten hun
dred thousand people.
"It is a monument to two or three
million women that worked just as
hard and suffored much more than
their brothers or husbands. That is
the thing that interests me. It is a
memorial to a movement. My great
hope is that before the thing is half
done, this country shall have decided
to stop sticking up statues to a Dr.
Cooper of a Hill Smith. The per
petuating of a bnttle! of a defeat, of
a movement that la what is need
ed." George Healis Tells of Murder
Held Girl In Arms As
She Was Shot
Providence, If. I., Jan. 20. Through
tho evidence of a negro chaiifeur,
Cleorgo Hcnlis, the stato of Illiodo Is
land today sought to provo Mrs. 0.
Franklin Mohr had plotted with Hea
lis, Cecil V. Brown nnd 'ilenry Spell
man to make uway with her doctor hus
band lust August. That she offered the
tlireo negroes $5,000 for tho job was
his claim.
Tho first plans, ho said, went nmiss
hecniiBO two girls not Miss Emily
liurger, Mrs. Mohr's rival wire in the
automobile with Dr. Mohr.
"We were to have killed Dr. Mohr
on Haturdny night (August "H)t" Hcn
lis testified, "but I lost my nerve nnd
threw in all tho speed on the machine
but Miss Orn. diy and Miss Wilson, and
not Miss Burger, woro in tho toniieau
with the doctor.
"Mrs. Mohr said to mo afterward,
'why didn't you stop tho carl This is
my lust chiinco because tho divorce
case comes up on the first of the
month. You can just say that It was
a robbery, and I'll givo you a good
job driving tiie car for me. If you
get into trouble over this I'll spend my
last dollar to help you out.'
"The next Tuesday 1 did stop and
they killed tho doctor. I recognized
Hpcllman in tho bushes.
"When I picked up Miss Burgenr,
tho side of her head was bloody. As
I lifted her, sho got another bullet
which ciinio over my shoulder.
"Thero was not a word, except when
Miss Burger suiil, 'Oh, doctor!' "
$250,000,000 To Be
Spent For Supplies
New York, Jan. 20. That a represen
tative of French nnd Italian s.vmiiciites
is on his wny to the United htntes to
purchase supplies totlie vnluo of $-;V),-000,000
for use lifter the war was the
information received hero today by P.
P. Mnrconc, an official of the National
Surety company. According to Mar
cone, tho agent of the syndicntes is Tito
Miizzoni. Ho will nrrlvo within ten
days, and is suid to have power of at
torney from tho Huns, of Ituly.
Livestock, canned ments and vege
tables, cotton, flour, grain, wire, coal,
zinc, copper, pig Iron, lumber for rnil
doud tVV'S, woolurf l.iocM, draughting
and scientific, instruments and band
ages nnd surgicnl .Instruments nro am
ong the supplies to be purchased.
where tho marauders had hammered
them after shooting them, to ascertain
If thero was still any life. In every
ense, thero wns evidence of torture; the
whole message, now going forward to
Washington told a grim story of hor
ror, seldom equalled among civilized or
seml-clvllizcd peoples.
ARIZONA "IN
DE
ERTS ARE
Streams Are Rising Rapidly and Phoenix Awaits Deluge
Expected From Breaking Levees On Salt River 1500
Tourists Marooned at Phoenix BIdges Swept Away and
Ail Traffic StoppedStorm In California Over, Damage
Runs Into Millions
Phoenix, Ariz., Jan. 20. Water was creeping into the
south half of Phoenix today as the Salt river floods rose
steadily. Several bridges have been washed out. Reports
from all over the state indicate flood conditions which
may prove as bad as those in southern. California.
The damage is said to be almost $1,000,000. So far
only one man, John Hicks of Los Angeles, has been re
ported missing, although many are in imminent peril.
Scores of volunteers labored today strengthening the
levee four miles north of Phoenix, which protects the
capital from the usual spring torrents. The water is lap
ping the top of the levee despite all efforts to build it
higher. At Tempe it is reported the militia was called
out to work on dams and levees.
The Gila, Colorado, San Francisco and Salt Rivers are
all rising rapidly. Near Yuma water is rushing over the
LaGuna dam in unprecedented volume. About 1500 peo
ple, including several hundred transcontinental travelers,
are marooned at Yuma. For their entertainment, munici
pal balls and other entertainments are being staged.
Traffic over the Arizona and New Mexico railroad has
stopped on account of washouts and landslides. At Clif
ton the water was a foot deep in the lobby of the Clifton
hotel, while militiamen stationed there to overawe the
copper strikers worked side by side with laborers rushing
repairs on weakening levees. Residents in the northern
part of the Clifton were moved to higher ground this
morning as the water rose in the streets.
From Winkleman, near Globe, Ariz., came a report
that 25 houses were demolished when the Gila river cut
through the eastern part of town. Roads in the Globe
region are impassible.
Los Angeles Oil., Jan. 20. Leaving
death, ruin and millions of dollars dain
age in their wake, floods which have
swept extensive nrens of southern Cali
fornia for nearly a week, slowly sub
sided today. The rain stopped and
there was iiluo glty for the first time
in many dnys.
With six known dead around Los An
geles, and four reported perished in tho
Tijuana river bottoms below San Diego
the fatality toll stood at 10 this morn
ing. Dnmngo nronnd Los Angeles, Sun
Ilernnrdino and IVmona, which were
probably hardest hit, will bo over the
2,000,000 mark, according to presont
indications. Aclitional damage of more
than 1(1,000,000 Is described in
dispatches from fnrther south.
llepair work Is being rushed. Thou
sands of acres of rich ranching land
nro smenred with mud and littered
with debris. Tho highway system will
not bo in good condition for weeks.
Railroads hope to establish normal con
ditions by ynturday or Sunday.
United Presi in Touch.
Ran Diego, Cnl., Jan. 20. While Ran
Diego was isolated by floods wireless
messages sent from the United Press
offico in Los AiiL'cles were this city's
only means of learning the news of tho
outsido world.
During a period of -IN hours, the only
inkling of Hun Diego 'a plight recoived
"outside" wns a United Press wireless
telegram flashed through tho nir over
200 milOB of deluge nnd disaster to Los
Angeles.
Credence Is Given to Idea by
Spain's Suddenly Re
Arming Her Troops
London, Jan. 20 Though busy nn ev
ery front, tho allies seo perhaps a
new peril In Spain. Hocnuso of 1 grow
ing unrest in Portugal they nro hoop
ing watchful eyes on every movo by
Spuin, for tho rumor persists that Spain
is secretly preparing to inviido Por
tugal. PortugiieTO advices declare tnat In
ternal conditions nro growing moro se
rious though there is claim that Spain
Is resHinaililo fur this sitiintinn. A
critical food situation coupled with In
cessant strikes and riots, keep tho re
publican guards alert.
Highly thousand workers are report
ed on strike at Oporto, while agitators
aro working at Lisbon where troulilo
eniected. Thousands of civilians
Including women, recently stormed tito
Portategro station, wnero uiey conns
cnted potatoes and olives; whilo in a
potato riot at Pinhcl, scores were
THE
sir
FLOODED
Had it not liecn for theso aeroplanes,
San Diego would havo cbeen shut oft
completely from all communication
with otiier cities for two entire dayB,
and tho world would have been in ig
norance of what had befallen this eity.
San Diego Isolated.
San Diego, Cnl., Jan. 20. With elear
skica ovorhead for tho first time in
wook, San Diego was recovering today
from one of tho most damaging storm
in recent yours.
Four people am known to have lost
their lives in the Tijuana river bot
toms and hundreds aro homeless anil
destitute. Others may iiavo perished.
Tho Tijuana rneo track is under water
and may bo badly damaged.
Damn go of over a million dollars nan
boon dono to bridges, roads, homos nod
craps.
A milk nnd vegetihlo famine is
feared. All the gardens nnd most of
tho dairies nro still under water. Until
train aervico is resumed on tho fanta,
Fo, probably late this week, no pro
duce or milk will bo received from
outsido sources.
Dams aro filled nnd overflowing. At
Morena dam, where Charles Hatfield,
tho "rain maker" is under contract
with tho city to fill tho dam for t(),
0000, over 18 inches of rain hns fallen.
Tiio snow is deep in the hilln.
Kxeept for wireless messages from
the United Press offico in Los An
geles, the city hns been without new
of tho outside world for IS hours.
wounded ns troops dispersed the mobs.
The hasto with which Spain Is new
ly equipping her army is giving the
allies considerable concern, for it
popularly rumored that she hopes to
turn the tide against the allies by ov
erwhelming Hortui'nl.
FLOUR TAKES A JUMP
Portland, Ore., .Inn. 20. All
grndes of flour jumped 20 cents
a barrel here iigniu toduy. Tho
new price is $.i.H0.
t TIIE WEATHER 5
WrlO IV.HLO"
Oregon! To
night and Fri
day occasional
ruin west, un
settled, probab
ly snow and
warmer ens
portion; aoutk
westerly winds,
strong near the
coast.
V v
