A BOLT everybody wbo is realty interested in Wash
ington, the city's and people's welfare, reads
The Herald. The HERAID averages more than
??0,000 paid circulation daily, which covers most of the
best homes in Washington. *
THE
HERALD
AS 6rst announced January ?* 1916. The Herald
guarantee? full mone) s worth to the pur
chasers of article? advertised in the display column?
of this paper by any m ashing ton merchant
(Ciremimr Fmvm*tkt4 Vptn Rettest).
no. 3381.
WEATHER?FAIR, CONTINUED COLD.
WASHINGTON. D. C, TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 1916.
ONE CENT.
? ? ? ??fctMHifk? mm? ?'?Him ?wlr*rV??
1 hereto KUKW NKRE TW O t I.%tf
2 MORE CITIZENS
OF U. S. VICTIMS
OF VILLA WRATH
Notorious Arrieta Brothers
Kill and Rob American Min
ing Prospectors in Mexico.
VALUABLES ARE TAKEN
U. S. Troops Aid in Capture
of Col. Valles, Villa Execu
tioner, and 9 Followers.
DEAD BODY TO BE EXHIBITED
- %
"Refugees' Spocial" from Parral Bear
ing Sixty Americans Scheduled
to Arrive Today.
-
?BUT to Taa Waaaaastoa Herald.
KI Paso. Jan. 17.-Two mor? Americans
have (allen victims of On. Villa's wrath
asalnst th? United Statea government.
Albert B. Simmons, of Loa Anateles, and
Victor Hamilton, of Chica?*, were ex
ecuted two mile? east of Pedrrcena sarly
Seturday morning by a band of Vllllatas
led by tbe notorious Artet* brothers.
Prdrtcena is a amali villa?? alxty miles
west of Ton-eon.
Aererdlng to telegrams received here
by Carranxn officiala, the two men were
robbed of their money. watches, and
other valuable*. Y. N. Mueller wired to
day from Torreo? to A. X. Murphy tn
El Paso:
"Two Americans. Albert ? Simmons.
of Lea Angele*, and Victor Hamilton,
of Chicago, were killed Saturday morn
ing by the Arista brothers, two miles
east of Pedrtcena. I am Informed that
th?**?? two men were minine: proapectora
and owned aeveral claim? near the city
of Duranjo. Bo?liea will be recovered
?. d brought to Torre?n."
L'nUed States troope assisted In the
capture (?Saturday of Col. Manuel Bac*
Vaile?, one of Villa? chl?f executioners.
and nina follower?, according to official
??ivice* received her? tonight. Thir
teenth cavalry troopers "took part" la
tb.? arrest of the Villietaa. according to
otT Val Carra?a* announcements from
.'"lumbus. It was not known here
whether or not the American soldiers
crosjed the line.
Col. Baca Vallee was executed yestef
SSaJ at I'alomoa? and hia body will be
brought to Juatl-e for exhibition aa an
object lesaen to other bandits m north
ern Mexico. '
IJeut CoL Enrique Cisnero*. who was
captured at the aame time, was alsc
eatrcuted. The Carranaa consul at Colum
bus stated that the eight soldiers and
two officer? are members of the band
tat maaaacred the Americans at Santa
Yaabel last Monday. Thia official be
lieves that they were trying to escape
to the United Statea when headed off
by the American cavalrymen and forced
? to r?tum to Mexico, where they were
made prisoners.
"The 'refugees' special" from Parral,
(?eating at leaat aixty Americans ana
other foreign men. women and children
la due to arrive here tomorrow morning
from ch!r?r?ahua, where it arrived at
noon today, according to the Mexican
Railway" advices. The special carried a
iieavy guard of Carranaa troope and
eight machine guns from Parral.
Will Not Honor
Consul Requests
Negotiations for Americans'
Safety in Mexico Must Have
Approval of Washington.
The action of American conaular offi
cials am the border in entering into ne
gotiationa fur the safety of Americans
will not be recoenisaaad by the State De
partment unless the authorisation for
auch action comea direct from Wash
ington.
This policy of the government waa an
nounced by a high official of the State
Department yeaterday when an Issue
arose aa to whether American Consul
Thomas Edwards at Juarex had asked
th? Carranaa authorities to guarantee
the safety of the train on which the
seventeen Americans, murdered at Santa
Vaabei. were traveling.
Kegardleea of any action taken by Ed
wards with references to the personal
safety of the ?lain Americans, however.
State Department ufficiala expreaaed the
conviction that evidence already ob
tained clearly proved that the United
State? can hold Carranaa responsible
for the safety of the American victims.
Tbe lasu? over the aaeurances re
queeted^by Conaul Udwarda arose from
the publication of newa dispatches quot
ing Edwarde ss saying he had obtained
guarantee* of protection of the ill-fated
train at the request of the State De
partment. When asked for an explana
tion. Edwarii* wired Secretary ljuismg
that he had made no mention of the train
in his requeat. but had requested and
be. ? promised by Carr-ani? authorities
sroteviiou for the Cual mining district
Twelve More ?4m eric ans
Reported Villa Victims
El Paso, Jan. 17.?Efforts are
being made tonight by Americans
on the border to confirm a report
that twelve Americans have been
?hot to death by Villa trtxips
within forty miles of Madera.
American refugees from Chi
huahua tonight brought the report
of the massacre. They said news
had reached Chihuahua that 300
Villa bandits had attacked the
mining town of Dolores, killing
all the Amenons and some Mex
ican miners. Among the Amer
icans were said to be three
women refugees from Madera.
ORDERS PROBE
OF ALL "SUBS
>>
Daniels Authorizes Inquiry
Into Entire Submarine
Branch of Navy.
SPECIAL COURT CHOSEN AND
MEETS IN BROOKLYN TODAY
Installation of Edison Batteries Stop
ped?Inventor Will Appear Before
House Committee in Near Future.
Secretary of the Navy Daniela laat night
tt>ok the opening step ln what may
prove to be an investigation of the entire
submarine branch of the l'nited Statea
Navy. He named a board of Inquiry to
Investigate the disaster to the submarine
E-1 at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, which
coat the lives of four men and injured
many more last Saturday. The Secre
tary specifically stated, however, that
the board powers would not be limited
to the E-2, indicating that it may probe
anything in connection with the subma
rine branch of the service.
The board appointed imm??*dtately after
the accld>5nt occurred la till at work, but
the findings of both thia and the new
court of urqulry are exported u> he <*-on
r 1 ?H**<i this week. ac<-*ord?i?ng t.? Secretary
Daniels. In the meantime, the installa
tion of the Kdlson battery in the L-8, now
under construction at Portsmouth, will
not be allow???! to proceed. Mr. Kdiaon
himself is expected t? be In Washington
shortly, and. aa chairman of the Naval
Advisory Board, will tt**atlfy before the
House Naval Affairs Committee aa to the
necessity for a naval testing laboratory.
The special court will convene at the
New Tork yatd this morning, and will
consist of Capt. William H. G. Bullard.
superintendent of the Naval Radio Serv
ice, an expert on electrical batteries, as
chairman: Lieut. Commander Herbert G.
Sparrow, of the Bureau of Steam En
gineering; Clyde S. McDowell, of the New
York navy yard, and Lieut. Joseph O.
Fisher, commanding fourth division of
the Atlantic sumbarine flotilla, as Judge
advocate.
Fire Wipes Out
Oklahoma Town
Four Men Shot After Liquor
Is Found in Business
Section.
Spettai to The *A aabloa-too Herald.
Wirt. Olka.. Jan. 17.?Twelve hundred
Tersone are homeless here tonight, ^fol
lowing a Are which ttxiay destroyed the
business section of the town, including
hotels and rooming houses, occupied by
oil operators and their families. Th?
property loss is estimated at $150.000. A
gasoline explosion in a small tailor shop
before noon started tbe Are.
four men were shot, two of them
probably fatally. In gun fights which fol
low?-??! the looting of quantities of liquot
found ln the business section.
Deputy United States Mershal Knight
of Ardmore; Sheriff James Eilffle and
other officers from Ardmore and Ring
ling are assistimi the local constable in
maintaining order tonight. A large build
ing here hau been placed at the disposal
of the homeless.
Wirt la a frontier oil camp, and tradi
tions were upheld when Buck Roberts
maddened becauae Jonas Kooshee made
him dance by shooting at hts boots, re
taliated by shooting Kooshee Just below
the heart. The miner ball? master ls
expected to die.
Germani Unit Cordage Plant.
Plymouth. Mass., Jan. 17.?Seventy
workmen, moat of them Germans, quit
work at the Plymouth Cordage Com
pany's plant today because, they told
Supt. Robert A. Brown, they had been
threatened. The company has been rush
ing big war contracts, presumably for
tho allies. The walkout put over ?o? men
out of work.
Held Up by Negroes on Street.
Alfred Hlckman. 117 tt -jtr??et northwest,
r?ported to police yeeterday he waa held
up by two ?-groe*, at Seventh and O
streets northwest shortly after midnight.
One of the negroes pointed a revolver at
him while th?- other rifled his ciothes,
stealing U'J.
RELIEF IS NEAR
FORBELEAGUERED
BRITISH TROOPS
Gen. Aylmer Reported Within
Six Miles of the Besieged
Army of 10,000 Men.
TURKS ARE REPULSED
Forces Attempting to Cut Off
Advance Driven Back. Says
Indian Secretary.
TURKS ON TIGRIS WITHDRAW
Attempts to Cross Right Bank of Ark
kava Repulsed?Russians Attack
Arasa Positions.
Sr-snal Cable t.. The Wait..notan Rmll.
London. Jan. 17.?Gep. Aylm?r, with hi?
relief force, ta within six mile? of Kut-el
Amara. where 10,000 British troops arc
besieged.
The Turkish forces which had pro*
ceeded southeast of Knt-el-Amara as far
a3 Sheik Saad. in an effort to prevent
Gen. Aylmer's advance, have been driven
back.
These announcements were made In the
house of commons today by J. Austen
Chamberlain, secretary of state for India.
Gen. Aylmer's troop? are fighting des
perately to reach the beleaguered garri
son before it Is forced to capitulate.
Official Turkish re|torts arc all but
silent regarding/It*? movements in Mes
opotamia. "There has been intermittent
artillery fire near Kut-el-Amara," they
officially state.
On the headwaters of the Tigris, how
ever, where the Russians under Grand
Duke Nicholas have begun a ?reat of
fensiv? on a 100-mile front, the Turki
admit the withdrawal of advance posta
Kart* Ar* SnpprcMed.
"The recent operations in Mesopotamia.
Including the advance to Ctesiphon. were
coneidereii and approved by the war
council." said Mr. Chamberlain in his re
port to Parll-Hinent. "It would not be to
pubi!, in^rwt that ? ?houle mnV? a state
ment on the ecofx? of operation* now in
progress. Information of that kind in the
present circumstances would be far more
valuable to the enemy than to the house.
"On the 11th Instant I announced to the
house that the enemy had fled to Ksslan.
a position six miles east of Kut-eUAmai-a.
He, however, apparently advanced ?.sain
on the following day to the YVaddl posi
tion. Since then we have received tele
grams from Gen. Townshend up to the
morning of the l?th, and from Gen. Ayl
mer up to the 16th. From these it ap
pears that Gen. Kemball. on the right
bank, was holding the Turkish position
In front of him. Gen. Aylmer was press
ing back two divisions on the left bank
at about the Waddi position. There was
continuous fighting on the lfith, and the
following day Gen. Aylmer reported the
enemy as again retii?ng and that he him
self was moving his headquarters and his
water transports to the mouth of the
Waddi. On the 15th Gen. Aylmer reported
that the whole of the "Waddi position had
been captured and the enemy rear guard
had taken up a position at Kssian.
Weather I In.? por. Op?ration?.
"Gen. Aylmer reported that the op
erations were seriously hampered by
the weather, which was very bad. All
the wounded had been sent down the
river."
Regarding operations In the Cau
casus, tonight's official report from
Petrograd said:
"The Turks made two attempts to
cross the right bank of the Arkhava
River. Both were repulsed. In the
fighting of the 15th we took 167 pris
oners and captured a Turkish artillery
depot northwest of Khorassan contain
ing a million rifle cartridges and a
thousand shells."
The Constantinople official report,
in which a check Is admitted, follows:
"The Russians have repeated their
attacks against Turkish positions on
both banks of the Arasa River, suffer
ing heavy losses, especially In the dis
trict between Arasa and the Enid Val
ley. Here the Turkish advance posts
retired some kilometers.**
MAY MAKE CANADA DEY.
Bill Prnhlhltlna; Sal? o? Liquor Kl
pected In r?rll?m.-nl.
Ottawa, Ontario, Jan. 17.?The ques
tion of liquor prohibition In Canada
during; the progresa of the war Is go
ing to be fought out ln parliament.
This became definitely known when In
the house thl.? afternoon Hon. Charles
Murphy, former secretary of state, ad
dressed the following inquiry to tha
government :
"Ia it the intention of the govern
ment to introduce during the present
sesaion of parliament a bill restricting
or prohibiting manufacture or aale of
liquor during the war?" -
The anawer is evasive and a resolu
tion will be moved on the subject In
the house shortly.
Freddie Welch Wim.
Philadelphia, Jart. 17?Freddie Welch
defeated Eddie McAndrews tjnight in one
of the fastest bouts ever staged in Phila
delphia. McAndrews, avho brat Wolgnst
and Ritchie, put up a game buttle, but
Welch outfought and outboxed him.
Four More Bodies In Fight
Against School Change Plan
Thirty Civic Associations Against Ousting Board of Educa
tion?One Would Center All Powers Over System of
Public Instruction in that Organization.
Four organizations went on record,
against tbe plan to place authority ovei
the schools in the Commissioners last
night. They were:
The East Waahlngton Citizens' Associa
hon
The Georgetown Citizens' Association.
The Parent-Teacher Association of the
Blair and Hayes schools.
The Parent-Teacli.r Association of the
Brookland Schtjol.
With the hearings on tbe question be
ginning before the subcommittee on
schools of the House District Committee
tomorrow, there are now approximately
thirty civic bodies on record against the
plan. A majority of these will present
written or oral arguments at the hear
Ings, and It la expected that one or two
organization? witl provide Congress with
a rim*- of statistics ln an effort to prove
the fallacy of the Comn?Mlonfri^ con
tention that the proposed plan is being
followed by the principal eitle? of the
country.
A new rea tu re waa added to the con
trovrray laat night by the East Waah
lngton Citizens' Association, which wa*
the flrat organisation to reply to the
Commissioners' contention that divided
authority between the Commissioner*? and
the Board of Education is injurious to the
school system. The East Washington
Association took the position that, if thlt
is true, absolute authority should bt
placed In thr Rosrd of Education. Dr.
C. M. Emmons, president of the associa
tion. will urge such legislation at th<
Congressional hearings on th? question.
Claims Martin Promised to
Marry Her But Wed Another
Cora Maude Clark Tells Court He Wooed Her Eight Years
and Then Married Maud Eddy?Letters Breathing
Devotion Are Read to Jury.
Special to The WaMtsftun Herald.
New York, Jan. 17.?"Mr. Martin de
clared that he would marry me up until
the Friday before he married this other
ein/?
On the witness stand today Cora Maude
Clark told the story of her eight-year
courtship by John I-eon Martin, wealthy
hroker and clubman, in her action for
^AOOO damages for alleged breach of
promise, .She sai*i
"We met in UN mid he proposed mar
riag*? the same night he met ms. H?
kept putting off the marriage while his
? father was alive, because he did not have
? enough money.
"After his father died, he postponed the
j wedding, because he was afraid hts
mother might dlsisdurrtt sUgL. Until March
; '?% 1912, four days before he married
i Maud Can fie id Eddy, he M nie to \%?*
lleve ? wss to be his wife. Then I was
stunned to hear through mutual friends
that he had married another girL"
This is a brief summary of the comely
plaintiff's story. She related it to detail
after the Jurors had heard read the
many letters in which Young Martin
ple-dged undying love to her. Millions of
kfcsscs to "Pete"?his pet name for her?
rainbow promises for his "Ittle DtrL" and
< ternal devotion for his "Baby Love"
were features of hie letters.
Throne hont the trial >'nin? Martin fnt
at the counsel table, his face turned
away from the witness-stand, one hand
stroking his brow. The only time he
fared the ?irl who sa>? he jilted her was
: when he whispered a curt suggestion to
I him ?ounaet. lie stni)*6 a bit when h!s
: letters referred to "Jim" and "Tom," a
?p*t c*v and dog.
I
"Why Was Dr. Mohr Slain?" May
Be Answered by the State Today
Jersey Murder Testimony Brings Out that Physician Guaran
teed to Dealer Purchase Price for Motorcycle for Stable
Boy, Who Appeared Later with Money.
By SOPH I? TREAD WELL.
Providence. Jan. 17.?Why was Dr.
Franklin C. Mohr murdered? That is
the question the State plans to begin
answering tomorrow when the trial of
Mrs. Mohr. accused of hiring two negroes
to kill her husband is resumed. To
morrow ?Mrs. Mohr will really enter the
case.
Today the State carefully avoided any
reference to anything that seemed to
even hint of Mrs. Mohr. There waa some
thing- almost ominous in the painstaking
way they eliminated her.
?M.1d Woman Telephoned.
One witness, In particular, was called
who has always been regarded as fur
nishing a strong connecting link between
Mrs. Mohr, the negro and the murderer.
That was Samuel V. Bryant, the man
who sold the "escape" motorcycle to
Brown. The negroes have said that Mrs
Mohr had given them money to buy this
machine.
Bryant said at the time of the first In
vestigation that a woman of refined voice
telephoned him regarding the. purchase.
The Stale Is sticking close to its an
nounced plan of seeking to prove, first,
that Dr. Mohr was murdered by the
negro stable boys, and, second, that
Mrs. Mohr hired them to do it. The
MYSTERY IN DEATH
OF FRED N. PETERS
Found Dead Sitting in Rocking Chair
in Bedroom in His
Home.
Fred N. Peters, a butcher in the
Kastern Market, was ?hot to deetli while
reclining In a rocking chair in the bed
room of his home, 1006 ? street south
east, last night. The police say he com
mitted suicide, but there was appar
ently no reaeon for this theory. Friends
of the man believe the shooting was
accidental. Peters was 33 years old.
Shortly after returning from the mar
ket yesterday evening. Peters went to
a nearby store for his wife. There was
nothing unusual in his action*, it was
said. Al .ut ? o'clock he went to hla
bedroom, leaving his wife and sister-in
law preparing supper. A few minutes
later I. D. Phillipe, the dead man's
brother-in-law, who lives in the house,
heard a revolver ?hot.
Phillips rushed to the bedroom, but
Peters was dead when he reached his
aide, lie was sitting in a r?enla? cbair.
first part of that program was virtu
ally finished today.
The entire recital revolved around
the motorcycle. How they tinkered
with it from 10 in the morning until 7
at night. At about 7:30 p. m. they
toft a garage in Providence. Dr. Mohr
was murdered twelve mile.? away, one
hour and a half later. Within ten
minutes after the shots were heard
two colored boys on a motorcycle were
seen just around the bend in the road.
riding away.
(ailed on I>r. Mohr.
Mr. Bryant, who sold the motorcycle
to Brown Msy 2R. testified today that Dr.
Mohr himself bought this machine ^or
Brown, at that time his stable boy.
Bryant said when the boy first looked at
the motorcycle he said he would like to
buy it hut did not have any money, but
suggested that Dr. Mohr be asked to
guarantee the purchase in installments
from his wages.
Bryant called on the doctor, who told
him that although he wouldn't pay for
the motorcycle himself, he would see that
Bryant "got his money."
This did not satisfy Bryant. A few
weeks later, on May 27, Brown appeared
with $100 In^ash. The motorcycle was
delivered to him.
CLIMAX OF COLD WAVE
IS DUE HERE TODAY
Southwestern Winds to Bring Warmer
Weather Before Another Day,
Says Bureau.
"lileven above zero and still going
down."
This was the cold reply of the fore
caster at the Weather Bureau at an
early hour this morning. At 4 o'clock
yesterday afternoon the mercury, then
at 18 above, began to tumble. At 6
o'clock It was at 15. Two hours later
it had dropped to 14. and at midnight
it was hovering between 10 and 11.
But the worst Is yet to come, for the
Weather Bureau reported last night
that the cold wave is scheduled to
reach the climax today.
Although the cold wave -came from
the West, southwestern winds are ex
pected tu reach here tomorrow, bring
ing with them warm weather.
Mise Farden Robbed on Street.
Miss Annie Farden, 1301 ? street north
west, was ribbed on the stieet !a*t night
when a negro snatched her handbac She
was walking near Fourteenth and 1*
streets not t h west when the purse was
stolen. It contained $20.
Montenegrin Surrender
Confirmed by Embassy
The Austro-Hunganan Embas
sy last night gave out a dispatch
received from the foreign office
at Vienna, which tells of the sur
render of Montenegro. The dit
patch reads :
"During the sitting of the
Budapest parliament the minister
president. Count Tisza, declared
that the king and government of
Montenegro had requested an
introduction of negotiatino* for
peace. The utmost we asked was
the absolute lurrender of arms.
At this moment we have received
a communication that Montene
gro accepted absolute surrender
of arms. Consequently, after the
realization of capitulation, ne
gotiations for peace can begin.
BRITISH LAND
NEAR ATHENS
Believed Allies Plan to Force
Hand of Greece by
Drastic Acts.
STATE ARCHIVES ARE MOVED;
MARTIAL LAW EXPECTED SOON
Rumored that Entente Will Try to
Overthrow Government and
Substitute Republic.
ra|?ccial Obi? ta The Waahiaaalor. Hrrxld
1-ondon. Jan. 17.?Greece will declare
martial law this week, according te
Athens dispatches received her? tonight,
quoting the Greek newspaper Kalrl*.
Tbe action is being taken by the gov
ernment in agreement wtth the King.
Parliament, which convenes on Mondar
is expected to ratify it.
Berlin. Jan. I".?British troop? have
been landed on the shores of the Bay
of PhaUerom. five miles southweat of j
Athena The Greek government ha?
transferred part of Ita archives to
I*???, ln Central Greece.
The startling new? t? contained in dl?
1'aU'be? to Berlin newspaper? ?jvi fron
private advices from the Gr?*ek capital,
according to a statement l??u?3d by ....
?emi-offlcial Trans-Oaaean News Burear
tonight. It is believed that the entente
power? have decided upon extreme meas
ure? to force the hand of Greece.
Brilla?. HI... Ud. I Oa?.
"Private advice? ?tate that the Greek
government ha* ?ent part of the state
archive? to l^art*?* and the government
will eventually be transferred there.
"The fact that the British are block
ading the Greek co??t mo*t tightly and I
are subjecting Greece to other incon- j
veniences I* interpreted by German news-,
papers as meaning that the entente is)
fomenting the overthrow of ttie Greek j
government in order to substitute a re-|
public with Venixelo? at the head.
All the papers expreas confidence and
gratitude that the entire army and the
greater part of the Greek population side i
with the king and will frustrate all at
tempt* against the nation's sovereignty
and the monarch's life.
INVESTIGATE RABBIT STEW
BrldgeDort. <"???.. Jan. 17.?81x cat
skins, found in the rear of a restaurant
here, following report? to the police that
pet cats and dogs have been missing,
bave started a rigid investigation by the
police ?nd health department*.
The restaurant is patronized by Rem
ington Arm? Company employes and by
policemen. It* rabbit *tew has been a
favorite dish with the police. The pro
prietor could not account for the presence
of the cat akin*.
Kills Woman; Commits Suicide
Providence, ? I . Jan. IT -Miss lielll&sa
Budlong, 22. daughter of James A. Bud
long, one of the best known market ga.
deners ln the Kast, was shot and killed
today by Cromwell Whlttler. son of *
promipent diamond dealer, who then
.orn/nitted suicide. The shooting took
place ln the beautiful Btfdlong home ?t
Cranston, and i* believed to have taaen
caused by the young woman's refusal to
accept Whlttier ? attention*.
Raise for 2.500 Workert.
Paw tucket. R? !.. Jan. 17 -The Dunell?
branch of the I'nited State? Furnishing
Company annour"ed a ? per cent increas?
today for its ?,G?? employes her? and in
Sterling, Conn., and Norwich. Conn. Th?
I'awtucket branch employs ?*>? The rala*
begins January 21.
Allied Aeroes Bombard Bulgarians.
Athen?, Jan. 17.?Fifteen ?Jlied aero
planes, ?setting out from ?Saloniki, hav?
taombarded the Bulgarian camp An the
Serbo-Greek frontier. The aviator* re
port that a number o? Bulgarian ?oldiera
were killed and wounded.
Spanish Steamer Sunk.
London Jan. 17?The Spanish ?team
ship Belgica ha* b.? ? ?ink at aea. ?c
ording to a Lloyd?? dispatch received to
Twenty-three members o? th? crew
were picked up.
? ?*
MONTENEGRO GIVES UP
ARMS,SURRENDERING TO
VICTORIOUS AUSTRIANS
Little Mountain Kingdom is First of European
Belligerents to Sue for Peace?I ields
Unconditionally.
TO CONSIDER TERMS AT ONCE
Hungarian Premier Announces Acceptance of Montenegrins'
Request for Cessation of Hostilities?Mount Lovcen Prob
ably Will Go to Austria?-Vanquished Ma\ Get ?Scutari.
-orrtml I aalt 4? Tb* M aakl.a?-? HrfaM.
Berlin, Jao. I 7.?Montenegro hu unconditionally surrendered to Auatm.
She will lay down her arms. She u the fint of the European belligerents to
fue for peace in the eighti^n months of fighting.
Terms will be discussed at once. It is believed they will include Ute
cession of Mount Lovcen to Austria aad the northern Albanian town of Scutari
to Montenegro.
Announcement of the submission of the little Mountain Kingdom was
made today at general headquarters of the Austro-Hunganan army aad by
Count Tisza, the Hungarian premier, before the Hungarian parliament The
official announcement says:
"The King and government of Montenegro on January 13 asked for a
cessation of hostilities and the opening of peace negotiations The Austro
U. S. SEAMEN
HELD HOSTAGE
Captain of Tanker Says Aus
trian Sub Comrjiander ?
Laughed at Wounded".
The Stats Department yesterday re
reived an affidavit fro? Capt. Thomp
son, of the Standard Oil tanker Petro
lite, which was shelled by an Austrian
submarine off Alexandria, Egypt, oa
December a
The affidavit contarne the rta* *?
ment that thr i'jbm*nnt* held a mem
ber of the crew a? hoata*-?? for a time.
and that the connrnart?: iaufh^d when
told one of the men on the steamt-r
had been wounded j?j his shells
All that State Department officiala
wit) ?aay on the subject is that if fur
ther evidence ?hows Austria to have
vlolatad international law. a protest
will be made, as In the case of the
Ancona. They do not regard the affi
davit as clearly setting forth facts es
sential for the formulation of a pro
test. Capt Thorapaon has been asked
for farther details.
TWO immt-MHtsmm \.*t Cl??r.
H Is still to be determined beyond ques
tion of doubt whether the captain of the
PetroUte Mopped hla vessel immediate
on being warned to haul to, and whether
the commander of tbe ?submarine paid
for the provision* which he comman
deered from tbe American ete-nmer
On the first of these questiona depends
whether the l'ntted States can demand
of Austria a disavowal of the attack,
punishment of the submarine commaiidt-r,
and reparation for the wounding: ?f the
sailor. On the second, depends whether
the United States can add to her de
mande a stipulation that Austria reim
burse the owner? of the vessel for the
provisions taken
'Hi'marlan MAtmMmMMt aaewered thai
thia W041M not tre paeslble uniras tha
Montetwarlr army ?hou M uacoiii'Mtlon
ally lar Aowrt lu arms. Th* Monfi?iln
army ye?t*rday accepted Omar termo"
Count Tiara addreaaiarr the Hgatirlaa
parliament aakl
"Mofitcnccro has aaked for pemet vXa
aaheti tha? beforehaad MwUiN?n *m
1 ??on.?lio?jally lay do-wn her arana, tot.
now new? haa arrived that Uw unooodi
uonal layin? down of arm? haa bacai
a'crpte-l Peace M-totletioB? will h?
enters Into ImmeiJtatelr *
? r. .. ? ... . lalih *...?.
The premier's anaounc-em?flf cam? ;u?t
after pr-K-eedlnc? uo4er the fir? para
craph of the order of the dajr had toan
completed He aakad perm t?atoa to late?
r4n>t the dlecueateb.
? nnaiitcn A ?rma ?tla-ace followed t,...
??orda, tad then parllaaawit broke tola
crmamaormm. mhouxa ot Voy ?a ri s ta?
ancient chamber Tine
The tie?? qtstckly apra-ad to tka ?triat?
and the enti?? <-H> hmotA in the Ai-at
pear? c?l?bration.
The ? ?Miden annouDcemrat of Mnnt??
????? capitulation came oa tbe beata of
dlepatche? t>uoUns her kin* and cabinet
miniate!*? to the efTert ?hat Ibe nation
? ouId never ?urrender lt waa 4?eclared
they muM ficht to the la?t m<ui that
Montenegro never had toen ronquara*
and never would to.
Kater-ed War Bar-ly.
Montenegro waa one of the flrat na
tion? to ?enter the war 8he reeallad tor
amt.aaaador at Vienna on AaataM k. 1*14.
only a few dar? after the final break
between Anatri? and Serbia H? wild
mountain r-eople tnron?vad to arsi? at the
kin??'? call Amona the ?oat warlike of
European jx-oples, their mountain faet
neaae? had never bt**e?n trodden by the
foot of an enetn? The Monteriez III? had
fired th? flnrt aun ot the ftrat Balkan
war Kin? N*cholaa. In fact had prac
tically atarted that conflict, tola? tha
flrat u> declare hoatlliile? aratri?? Turkey
Her army fourht valiantly Ihrowa-hotrt
both BaJkan war?
Monteneirro wa* the ?malleat of the
allied coantrlea Her area waa le??
than ?.*??? square mile?
YOU CAN
SAVE 5 DOLLARS
By Filling Out and Mailing
THIS COUPON
You SAVT $2.00 a year on the price of any other Wash
ington Sunday morning newspaper.
You SA\ E $3.00 a year on the price of your morning
paper
Contains ali the news and more Special Features Seven Day*
a Week at ?
DAILY, lc=? SUNDAY, lc
Y ou can get a home delivery of the Sunday HERALD every
week for ONE CENT?or the Daily and Sunday every day
By Carrier, 30c a Month
SEND IN YOUR ORDER BELOU
Name .
Address .
