-f H-" Vfa- .-"-.-J-H"""". -SW ? rvigv
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
icttenm
vo:L.n-No. 108
rniLADEIiPIIIA, TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 101G.
CorimoitT, 1010, t the rustic Lztxirii CourAxr.
PBIOE OKE OIWJTT
. V -JSyrbr wy!' ' t X-pgg fficSB2 Jtttr
m
Allies issue
ULTIMATUM TO
GREEK RULER
jlust Give Teuton Envoys
Passports witnm io
" Hours, Is ftetfort in
Berlin
bo.OOO MEN ON COAST
lost Bid for Hellenic Support
Mndo DV INew JJenmuu
of Entente
BERLIN, Jan. 18.
i rnrlwia nna rnunw '' ,,...,........ ..
itrtual ultimatum to Greece, nccord ng
SlToBadipitehe. todny, demanding that
'hrM i hnnd to tho diplomats of tho Ccn
?rS EmpKfl their passports within 43
Mjoum. .. . . ... ...
Tb9 Bona dlspaic... conung ,, ..-
ttt Athens repona mm. .... ..--.
S... been lnndcd nvo miles from tho
have boon "-" .,,,, llnllbt ln Bern
OrMKca.u". -"-- --t.. .
UfmedrcoTocompeTcreeco
to nonnaon. ,.. --" " .,... ,,,
The Bofla message, mauu jmuuu w..UJ
by tho Ovorscas News Agency, says:
"Reports from Athens state Hint EtiR-
Itnd ana Franco nuvu i"""' - -
lithe Orcok Oovcrnment, which Is really
ffB-S1 2 mil 'deliver piMPort- to nil
the nllled (German. Austrian. mihwrlnn
ind T rldsh) ministers and consuls. If
he Greek Government ilocs not accept
this demand, tho Entente will tako ncc
aary measures."
iivnntJ. .Inn. 13.
.-., -., V-nvtnA hnVA tlimWtl 400.00
Ensrnnu u..u -."- -- ",,-,,, Vn.
troops into urectv, u. - --
WV Although not offlelally announced,
.rtwrts nro nccoptcd ns true that tho
Al los' forces havo neon landed at Corfu.
PJialeron, I'lrncus, unnium "
A band of steel has been forged on
three Bides of Greece by tho Allies, while
toe fourth side Is held by powerful armies
of Austro-Hungarlans, Germans and Bul-
'occupatlon of Athens by Allied troop3 Is
ttllovcd to bo Imminent. Plrneiis Is only
dte miles from Athcr)s, being tho port
of tho Greek capital.
Following reports that part of the
archives of tho Government novo been
removed to Lnrlasn, It was said today
that King Constantino is prepared to
move tho court to Larlssa.
News of tho flight of tho Greek King
from Athens would not cause any sur
prise hero. i
' Mtuures of coercion, moro drastic than
any jet contemplated, arc being exerted
by tho Allies to forco Grecco into the
wr to fulfill her treaty obligations to
tV i .JAM Id lintinrl In
jaonirncgro s auncuucL . -..- -
save political effect upon Rumania and
'Ottece. ,,
iPritlsh newspapers, commenum, uiiui.
ti n.,t... i.,oin. ..rorilnt Imnortant
'tap uainuu ouiiniiwii, ,.......
'developments In that zono very soon.
K .
;DADIES FOUND DEAD IN BED
Two Smothered to Death Because of
Cold Weather
.Two babies were smothered to death
Ethla morning In their 'beds, both cases
tttelng directly duo to tno extreme com
f wilier.
Reba Spiser, 5 months old, of 1303 Bnln
F.brldie street, wns sleeping with her llttlo
Riliter, 111 from a bad cold, and when her
L mother went to attend me gin mis mora
Hne the baby was dead. The Coroner's
jfofflce believes that tho sister rolled over
J cm the baby during tho night and
kimothcred her to death.
fc The other baby was a 4-wccks-old child,
Snot yet christened, of Mrs. Mary Simon,
lot 7 North 6th street. Tho baby was
fluttering from a cold and the mother
ifoutid It with tho covers over Us face.
) Mrs. Sanger's Trial Postponed
NEW YOItK. Jan. 18. Tlio trial of Mrs,
(tllargaret Banger, editor of "Tho Woman
; rtebel." who Is charged with sending llt
t era(ure on birth control through tho malls,
was postponed today until January 24 by
Federal Judge Clayton.
THE WEATHER
Small boys If they die young enough
are assured of at least one jewel In their
celestial crown. According to tho proverb
consistency Is u 22-carat stono and II
Leccuples for the youngster the centre of
fthe diadem. While regaling ourself with
a one of breakfast In a well-known
hbeanery this morning, wo were stirred to
ithe depths with tho avidity with which
fa jouiig tatterdermallon, seated at the
faoJa fountain which adorns tho front
start of the beanery. was devouring a
teamlner concoction before htm. Hunched
Up on the stool with one hand In his
f pocket the other Bhot from the cup to
line mouth of him with a speed that must
j"He made the recoiling of a rapid lire
'ion at IIIU eo seem like the progress of
rafflc at a Market street corner when
0ae Is hustling to make a train. It was
Ian Interesting picture and the lesson was
tj? " on U8, ur feellnSs were ae
g.oaedly of the poor box sort as we-strolled
i Past the soda fountain to pay our check,
fcThat operation completed the poor box
taousht had flown from the window of
POUr mind llkA n. surlrl nt rtust nn n. March
f 4ay, For wo had glimpsed, In passing,
pw part of the tatterdermallon's bever
Ft itiu remained on tho outside.
i.u was Ice cream soda!
pnpprjoT
t' for Philadelphia ' and vicinity
j,jM, uouuy tonigni ana treanes-
-a. i mer luiitymj 7luucfUic iem
r""ulres weanesaay; modtrott
"'tauthweit winds.
10ST AND FOuND
ttSttTV!? M tMea mada to the Merchants
Mrttaeata (a place threof.
i fcari?.1- .In. BeIUvu-Btratford. 110 P. ro.
fidCll' leather brtof baj; conulnlnx paner?
r.ffSSi0 ficUI alu to owner. Howard
jyeiurnoajo UooinMlT.Bellvue.
Kff,.Ham tUr." ln nelKhborbood of
acuat T ..iI.V... -"'"T-'i " --." T-
-. auMmy-t .lo gnu ioeuat.
TCU-Lct. lidv- niviD.hr. aid Hatch.
B !S lt "d ChMtnut and 62d and Mar.
"JeBfe.gut""k" U """' l"""-
aiS.O-TLoit. Tuesday evenlnr. chow
U HaOcr 17? atuilad eolUr:' r4JUh trowij.
h ji4 iasajt. Apply 1X13 Uxauz
Si lfiATP No- 8" 'or ten (1) & of
iSl !..,' S"" Union Trut Company, tn
JM earn. OtCUW Kerlc Imvlnir len loit.
i ttr'C!a"4 Ait, o i'ojwa it ai i
VILLA MARCHING
NORTH; 'BUTCHER'
SHOT BY SQUAD
Force of 2000 Men Moving
on Casas Grandes 350
Americans in Danger
REFUGEE TRAIN ARRIVES
Colonel Baca-Vnlles Pays Death
Penalty for Part in Santa
Ysabel Massacre
GALVESTON, Tex., Jan. 18.
Twenty thousand of General Obrc
gon'a Ynqtii Indian warriors have been
sent into the State of Morcloa to con
duct guerilla warfare against the
Zapatistas, according to advices re
ceived by tile Mexican Consulate here
todny.
El. PASO. Tex , Jnn. R-Gonoinl Fran
Cisco Villa has gathered his forces south
of Madera and Is marching northward to
attack Cnsns Grandes, according to dis
patches received hem early todny by
American officials from Chlhunhun.
It U bcliovcd that, becnu?o of tho recent
massacre of Americans by his men. Villa
fears pursuit by Cnrrniizlstns, and, there
fore, Is bringing his army of 2000 men
Into tho mountainous legions of north
ern Mexico.
I'Vnrlng for tho safety of more than K0
American Mormon colonists who live In
tho Casas Grnnclcs district. Bishop 1 If.
Hurst, head of tho Mormon church here,
hns reiterated tho wnrnlnir sent Krlday
to colonists and requested them to come
to tho United States nt once. In his
inessngo Bishop Hurst repealed tho
threat made recently by Villa "that ho
was going to kill every damned Mormon
'gringo' In northern Mexico."
A spcclnl train chartered hero by high
church officials of Salt I.ako City Is
ready to go to Casas Grandes for tho
Mormons ns soon ns they declare their
willingness to como to tho border.
DEADER SHOT BY SQUAD.
' TVIlh his back toward a Cottonwood
tree, behind which his hands cro tightly
bound with heavy rope. Colonel Miguel
Baca-Vnlles, Villa's "butcher," otllclal
executioner of tho VHJa army, was shot
to death In Juarez by n Cnrranza tiring
squad nt G a. in. todny. Tin, oxecution
took placo nt n point 100 yards from tho
National Hallway station, where there
Btood a special train tilled with Ameri
can lcfugecs from Mexico, which had
arrived a fow hours,oarller.
Colonel Ba.M Vnlles was put to death
after conviction by a court-martial on
tho chargo of having taken part ln tho
massacre oj American citizens near Santa
Ysabel a week ago Monday.
While Baca-Van.es was being, executed,
the body of General Joto Rodriguez, an
other Vllllsta loader, lay In a freight
car nearby nwnlttng the hour t:t by the
Carranz.i officials for Its exhibition In
tho Juarez railway station as n warn
Ing to nil Mexicans that American lives
must be respected In Mexico. Rodriguez
was executed last week near Madern.
Colonel Baca-Vallcs met his death with
a stoicism characteristic of Ills Indlnn
ancestry. Knowing that he was doomed
to death Immediately after his arrival In
Juaroz. ho smoked cigarettes Incessantly
during the night, but the only words he
Continued on l'uire Vniir, Column One
PREPAREDNESS POLICY
OF WILSON ATTACKED
BY EMMA GOLDMAN
President's Message Just Cheap
Play for Another Term, and
Roosevelt in Same Class,
Says Anarchist
ALSO RAPS HARD WORK
Emma Goldman Tells Her
Views of Wilson and T. R.
President Wilson has come out
In favor of preparedness because)
ho wants to be President of the
United States attain.
Roosevelt is a bully.
Wilson hides behind tho smooth
university mask, but, like Kooso.
velt, has one aim to serve the big
'"isMt less murderous to furnish
munitions than to do tho actual
murdering?
Wilson's address to Congress was
cheap play to the callery.
His talk about disloyalty is clap
trap, which excites the ordinary
man of the streets without making
him think.
This preparedness talk is a con
spiracy between the munitions fac
tories and the Government.
Hard work never wins success.
You must do others or be done
you mum EMMAGoLDMAN.
President Vv'oodrow Wilson has changed
his tune and-Is now In favor of prepared
ness Blmply because he wants to be Presi
dent of the United States again accord
Ing to Emma Goldman, anarchist, who Is
In the city today.
In an Interview at her room in the
Hotel Walton she declared that Roosevelt
and Wilson qre cast In the same mold,
in that they re both controlled by the
"ble "interests," which are anxious to
have the nation prepared for war so that
they can make money at the expense of
the common people.
"Woodrow Wilson, not long ago, said
we were a nation too proud to tight,
she "aid with spirit. "At the bc5lnnlB8
of his administration he bad praiers 4f
fered for peace. In his proclamation he
sooke of the necessity of watchful wait
ing Now he, too. is whipped Intoline
The only difference between Roosevelt
and Wilson la this. Roosevelt Is t bully
Ha use" a club. WlUou, on tUe other
hnnd-oh. Wilson, the historian, the col
l.Vfessor. wears the smooth-polished
university mask, but underneath it he.
like Itooievelt, has but one ulm to serve
thV biff Interests, and to add to those
who are growing rich by the nanufao
ture military supplies. t
jklss Goldman denounced the 'munition
Cuatlflucd oa Im Itf J, Caliioui l'ur.
RAILROAD OUTLOOK IN U. S. RESTS
ON WAR, SAYS LEHIGH VALLEY HEAD
Owing to a cold, E. 15. Thomas, president of the Lehigh Valley Rail
road, did not attend the annual meeting of stockholders held in this city
today, but at tho request of the EVENING Ledoeii, ho gave out the following
statement:
"The railroad outlook for 1010 is a difficult one about which to
prophesy," according to Mr.
Thomas. "Everything depends upon
tho situation abroad. If the wnr
continue, it is highly probable the
present level in railroad earnings
jvill be maintained; but if the com
ing year sees n cessation of hos
tilities, wo must face a gencrnl re
adjustment, which will then depeno
upon tho situation in this country;
particularly, much will depend upon
tho treatment tho railroads receive
from the regulating nnd legislative
bodies.
"Constructive legislation is cer
tainly calculated to follow tho work
of n commission formed on tho
lines suggested by President Wilson
in his recent message to Congress.
A careful inquiry into tho activities
of Stato and national regulating
bodies, I believe, will rovcnl them
engaged largely in petty matters
which, failing to give tho public
better service or more safety, tend
only to hamper tho railroads, add
great sums to their cost of opera
tion nnd make now financing for
them exceedingly difficult. Tho
most constructive work possible
would bo tho curbing of these ac
tions nnd the introduction of a sys
tem in the hnndling of such mntlcrs
ns must naturally come before such
bodies; nnd the adoption of a plnn which would insure uniform nction in
tho vrrtous States ut the same timo protecting tho railroads from the
petty 'tucks from which they havo suffered so seriously in recent years.
The railroads of the country havo faced nn unusual situation tn the
last fow months. I believe every una
with the country
18 tratisnortation
grcntly handicapped by tho repressive
had to undergo in recent years which has so seriously impaired their
create ns 10 mauo necessary now financing extremely difficult.
RUSSIANS DRIVE
TEUTONS OUT OF
PINSK FORTRESS
Austro - German Front
Pierced at Several Points,
Petrograd Says
FIGHT HARD ON STRYPA
rCTROGRAD, Jan. 13.
Fighting In tho legions of the Strypa
nnd .of Czcrnowltz contlnuos with un
nbuted obstinacy.
In Southern Pollcsle It Is reported that
almost nil tho Kuhhotskavola-golost sec
tor has neon cleared of Austro-Germans,
Several miles of trenches aro In the hands
of the Russians.
Tho Austro-Gcrman j'ront has been
pierced In many sectors near Plnsk and
In Polleslo nnd tho ndvanco continues.
Prisoners state that tho German losses
nro enormous, both In disunities and from
sickness.
They further declare tho Austro-Germans
have evacuated Plnsk and Russians
occupy the elevations near tho town.
Tho following official communication
wns Issued last night:
"German aeroplanes havo raided Shlak,
Kurtenhof nnd Dvlnsfc.
"There havo been nrtlllery duels ln the
region of Plalcnncn, south of Riga, at
Kokenhausen, east of Frledrlchstadt, and
nt lllouk8t.
"Our artillery mndo successful attacks
on tho villages of Lavrenska nnd Dube
llszkl, northwest of Dvlnsk." r
VII3NNA. Jnn. 18. Tho Austrian head
quarters report Just Issued, says:
"The Russian') on the Ilessarnblan and
Hast Gallclan front have not resumed
their attacks. General calm prevails.
"Tho Austria-Hungarian troops In the
district enst of Rarancze havo driven the
Russians from their advance positions,
filled up the trenches and constructed
bnrbed-nlrn entanglements. Outposts of
the Archduke Joseph Ferdinand's armies
have repulsed three Russian advances,"
ANCONABOMBARDATA
DA AEROPLANI NEMICI
-
Vienna Annuncia Che gli Aus-
triaci Han Dovuto Evacuare
le Trincce di Oslavia
Un telegramma da Roma dice die
quattro aeroplanl nustrlact volamnn lei I
su Ancona e vl lasclarono endcre bombe
che ueclsero un uomoma fecero llevl
daunl. ,
Un comunlcato ufflciala emananto a
Vienna ammette che gll auslrlacl furono
costrettl ml abbandoharo lo trlncee da
cssl preso venerdl' scorso nel dlntornl ill
Oslavia "perche' assoggettate ad un
violento fuoco dell'artlgllerla Italiana e
comple'amente espostc." II comunlcato
austiiaco non dice pero" che non solo
per l'tirtlglleiia ma anche e speclalmento
per $U attacqhl della fanteria gll aus
triad furono costrettl a lasclare le trlncee
che essl avevano preso a costo dl grandl
eacrlflzll, Ad ognl modo 11 geneiale Ca
dorua annuncia che la controffenslva
Italiana nella zona di Oslavia contlnua.
(Legere In 4a pagina ultlme e plu'
dettagllate notlzle sulla, gutrra In
lialtano.) '
PANAMA CANAL WILli HKOl'EX
TO LARGEST SHIPS ON FEU. 15
Col. E. F. Glenn Announces That En
ergetic Work Has Restored Channel
NEW YORK, Jan. 18. The Panama
Canal will be reopened to the largest
ships now ailoat on February 13. This
announcement was made todiy by Colo
nel E. F Glenn. U. S. A,, upon hla return
from a six weeks' vlult to the canal zone.
Colonel Glenn stated that when he left
Panama the energetic work: Pf American
engineers had restored a channel 0 feet
dep at all points, and the canal officials
were confident that all traffic could be
resumed by the middle of February.
The urroy officer arrived" on, tlje steam
ship Mctapan, which carried other
passengers.
15. B. THOMAS
of them is .strivini? to keen abreast
domnnds. Thnir oflnrln linvn linon
regulation and legislation they have
5 GIRL PICKETS
ARE ARRESTED;
STRIKE TO END
Agreement Between Gar
ment Workers and Manu
facturers Expected
ONE POINT IN DISPUTE
Five girl strikers wore arrested today
on charges of nssault nnd hnltcry, In
tho caso of two of them, nnd on tho
ctmrgo of intimidating n woman worker.
In tho enso of tho others.
Whllo tho union leaders expressed sat
isfaction with tho results of tho arbitra
tion board's work, declaring tho manufac
turers had granted every demand, ex
cept one, of the workors who went on
striko jesterday morning, they did not
lessen their vlgilnnco nt tho shops to
day to seo that none of tho TWO or more
women and girls who walked out should
go back to work It was In connection
with this vigilance that tho girl work
ers were arrested.
ACCUSED OF ASSAULT.
Rebecca Polln, in years old, of 2i:8
South Marshall street, and I.llllnn Win,
21, of 1533 North 23d street, were ar
rested In front of the garment factory
of Louis Goldstein, nt 1001 Filbert stiect.
when Mr. Goldstein nnd his stenographer
Klcanor Phillips, were about to enter the
building. Mr. Goldstein accused them of
nssault nnd battery, saying tho three
young women had nttacked both himself
and .Miss Phillips. They woro arrested
by Pollcomnn O'Neill, of the 11th and
Winter streets station, nnd told they
would have n hearing before Magistrate
Collins
Kntlo Krlp. 21 yci --a old, of 933 North
Franklin street; Sarah Illalr. 22. of S31
North Olarshall street, and Paulino V.o
daff, 21, of Stl North Cth street, woro ar
rested by Policemen Gill nnd Rodgcrs at
10th and Arch streets, where, it was said
Continued on race Two. Column Oru.
THIS IS CITY'S COLDEST
JANUARY 18 IN DECADE
Official Mercury in Morning
Indicates Most Frigid Wave
in Two Years
Temperature of Coldest
Day Since Januaru 14, 1914
1 a. m 13
2 a. m 13
3 a. m..., 12
4 a. m , , 11
5 a. m 11
r On. m , 10
7 a. m. ,...,, 10
8 a. to T 9
9 a. m...,,..; 16
10 a. m ,,v 19
11 a. ml 18
Noon ...'. 18
1 p. m 22
2 p. m, 23
3 p. m 23
There U kkatlns today on Ciimtlne,
Conroure and Wuodslde I'uik JjLc, la
rulrmount I'ark; on Hunting' 1'arb Lake,
Ciriiuautoun ltoj.' Club Athlcllo Field,
Writ I'enu ttrect, and on ull nctluded
mull ktrctchtti of water In the kuburbt.
The lowest point the official merciffy
In Philadelphia has reached for two
years came today, ut 8 a. m., when the
temperature wan 3 degrees. Rut only
for a few minutes', for the mercury be
gan "somersaulting" In such an amazing
way that een the weather man yas sur
prised. The last cold day to equal today came
on January II, 1911, when the mercury
tunibled down to zero. Today there U
no hope of equaling this mark, for as the
mercury touched 9 It began leaplns like
a frightened kangaroo. In one hour It
had reached 18 degrees, then went to 1
and back to IS.
Tbe backbone of the cold wave uH
broken, the ouiclai forecast says. Tonight
Will be warmer.
WOMAN IN BLACK
ASSAULTS WIFE
OF LIEUT. SMILEY
While Police Officer Is
Speaking Over Phone She
Draws Revolver al
His Home
USES BABY AS SHIELD
Detectives Search for Mysteri
ous Intrduer in All Sec
tions of the City
A m.islerloui woman ln black, who held
up Mrs r.ll7nbeth Smiley, 'wlfo of Police
Lieutenant George 8. Smiley, nt her home,
with n revolver, while Lieutenant Smiley
wns frntitlcnlly trying to cnll his wlfo on
the telephone, In ns thrilling a mclndinnui
ns wni ocr onacted off the singe. Is being
sought throughout tho city today by tho
police
The slnry rlvnH fiction. Whllo nld,
summoned by Lieutenant Smiley, wns
' urrylng toward his home, nt 151J North
C2d street, nnd ho himself was vainly
shouting into the telephone, hli wlfo wns
knocked down by tho Inti inter, suddenly
trnusfoimcd from n icllnnl woman Into
n tlgrcs, mid his 2-ycnr-old bntiy, War
ren, wns used ns u shield, nt the point
of ii icvolvor, to Insure her escape. Tho
cm III seemingly swallowed her up ns j
police nii dnshrd up In fiont of the
hoiidP nnd neighbors hurried from their
homes.
Tho tale, told In chronological order,
begun vpstrnlay morning when Lloil
nmnt Smiley left home nnd nftcr tinlis
iictlng business nt City Hull, took the
1:11 p m. train from Hrojd Street Station
for ileriiiuiitnwu, where he Is utlurhed to
tlu IJant Ilnlncs street station He did
not see n. womnii, clothed In black from
hcnil to heel, observing his every move
ment. Tim sceiio shifts to tho Smiley home.
Tho doorbell rang nnd Mis. Smiley wns
cniifioutcd by n woman, clothed In black
from head to heel, mid heavily veiled In
blnrk.
"How do you do?" sr.ld the stranger,
npologetlcnlly. "1 Just left your husband,
nn old friend. I enmo In from Ilctlilchcm
nnd bo told mo to como hero nnd iiinka
m.vself known. Ho will bo homo Inter
this afternoon."
lfcr voice was low and refined. Her
coat nnd gown were of tho best finality.
This Mis. Smiley could seo us tho woman
stood nt the door.
Continued on I'nge Tno, Column lliree
SATAN AND HIS DEVILS
CAN'T HALT DRY MOVE,
SAYS LEAGUE SPEAKER
"Sober Nation" Slogan at An
nual Meeting of State Anti
Saloonists Rev. W. B.
Wheeler's Plea
RECORDS OF CAMPAIGN
!
r
MISS ARABELLA CARTER
Only woman delegate to the meet
ing of the Pennsylvania Anti
Saloon League. She represents
tho Friends of Philadelphia.
"The gates of hell, Terre Haute, Cin
cinnati and Philadelphia combined can
not prevail against the thousands of so
untcers coming to the front every day In
the great warfare for a sober nation."
sold the Rev. Wayne B. Wheeler at the
annual meeting today of the Pennsylva
nia Anti-Saloon League at Wesley Hall.
"Science, Industry, labor, war, fraternal
organizations and every other agency
which makes for human uplift is lining
up against liquor. Victory is nigh,
"Nineteen States, two-thirds of the
counties of the United States and 89 per
cent of the territory have abolished the
saloon. The power we must concentrate
on now Is the Federal Government, which
maintains a policy that handicaps this
dry territory In obtaining the full benefits
of their law.
"The Federal Government must, and
soon will, cease to aid and abet the law
breaker. Yes, It will go one step farther
and dissolve partnership with this drunkard-nuking,
home-wrecking, youth-corrupting,
jall-fllling, poverty-produelnsr.
misery-causing, soul-damning, hell-nlllng,
wife-breaking business. The resolution
for prohibition, now beiore the bltb, Coa
gresa of the United States will be adopted
am the States will ratify It. Vluory U
assured "
"The Rev Mr, vnu.. s utHi.
attorney of tbe Anti-Saloon League. He
U ln charge of tbe temperance forces la
Washington, where the prohibition reso-
Continued inn la; Tue, Column, lire
4SHagB3&&&,
i t w r i i ,t
rV&AJEsvHHEX W3o
ijniv
J?SSjSBSSSSSSSSSpSSSSSV 99 ?ff k
QUICK
LINER RYNDAM DAMAGED ON WAY TO ROTTERDAM
NEW YORK, Jnn. 18. It Is reported In marine circles that the
liner Ryndam 1ms met with nn accident and is going into Botterdam
with n heavy list. he report did not state whether the Ryndam
lind stiuck n mine or whnt had happened to her.
SCHOONER ADRIFT OFF VIRGINIA COAST
PORTSMOUTH, Vn., Jan. 18. The schooner Anna, of Hampton,
was sighted dismasted and adrift tlnec miles cast of the Damneck
co.iat Rtiaid station todny. Thcic wns no signs of life aboard and
the fntc of the cicv is unknown.
CURTISS' EX-PARTNER SUES HIM FOR .$5,000,000
JIUKI-'ALO. N. V.. Jnn. 18. Suit for $B,000.000 against Olcnn II. Curtiss,
aviator nnd mniinfueturcr. nnd others was filed hero todny. Augustus M.
Herring, n former pnrtner of Curtiss, Is tho plnlntlff. He Becks to recover
money nlleged to ho duo ns a result of his Inventions: in developing; aeroplanes.
DRINK AND KILLING OF WOMAN COST NAVAL POST
President Wilson todny signed tho papers which dismissed from tho navy
Knslgn Lawrence Kcniin Korde. of this city, for "conduct unbecoming nn
olllccr nnd n gentleman." Tho specific clmrgo was drunkenness, nnd tho
dismissal of Kordo upholds tho Ilnding of n court-martial, which tried Tilm
In connection with nn accident In Mobile, Aln.. in which ono woman wnH
ltllleil nnd niintlipr Imdly Injmcd when a tiiMcnb collided with an automobllo
which the olllccr wh driving;.
Tonic, ii student aviator nt I'cnsiicoln, Kin., took the pledge when Secre
tnrj Diiniol.s li.inlshcd nun from tho sens in 1013. Tho sens, however, got
lough nn October L'5 bust enr, nnd Kimlgn Fordo wns washed overboard. Korde
wns nppolntvd lo tho nuy fiom Wyoming.
MICHIGAN CAR FERRY WRECKED IN GALE
LUD1NGTON, Midi.. Jan. 18. Pen- Marquette car ferry No. 19, Ludlngr
ton to Milwaukee, is brenklng up In a heavy galo four miles north of hero ln
I.nko Michigan today. Life-savers wcro unnblo to rcscuo 20 men who aro
aboard. Tho vessel stranded hist night.
CONSCRIPTION WILL GIVE BRITISH ALL TROOPS NEEDED
LONDON', Jan. 1S Passage of tho military servlco bill will provide Eng
land with nil tho tioops she wlll'necd In tho wnr, Lord Kitchener announced
today In Parliament. A similar statement was made by AVnltcr Hume Long,
president of tho Local Government Hoard. Tlicso Htntcmcnts were made In
hpceches urging the immediate nduptiou of compulsory mtlltnry service..
JOHN W. BROWN LEAVES THOUSANDS TO CHARITY
Ily tho will of John W. lirawn. Lover Merlon, the following public uenucsts
aro mndo: The West Philadelphia Young Men's Christian Association, ?50Q;
tho Kimo amount tn the V. M 2. A. of Xnrbcrth; same amount to Pennsylvania
Society to Protect Children From Cruelty, of Philadelphia.; same to Chlldren-'sld
Society of Philadelphia; $1000 each to Children's Summer Home, Clnnamlnson.
N. J.; Keswick Colony of Mercy, Whitings, K. J.; Philadelphia Vacant Lots Culti
vation Association; G00 each to Children's Country Week Association, of Phila
delphia; Clarksan Memorial Hospital for Children, Omaha, Neb.; Society for
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, of Philadelphia, nnd Presbyterian Orphanage
for Children in tho Htnto nt Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. Fivo hundred' dollars
Is also given to Woodlands Cemetery, lo devote the Interest for cemetery lot care.
WOMEN TRUSTEES OF MOTHERS' ASSISTANCE FUND
Governor Bi umbaugh today reappointed theso women as trustees to
administer the mothers' nsslstdnco fund for Philadelphia County: Mrs.
Charles Gilpin, Jr.; Mrs. Laura Mullen, Mrs. II. Gordon McCouch, Miss Agnes
Kelly, Mrs. M. AV. Ketchum, Miss Anna Davles and Mrs. M. II. Blernbaum.
PEASE BACK IN BRITISH CABINET
LONDOX, Jan. 18. Joseph A. Pease, former president of tho Board of
Education in the Asqultli Cabinet, was today appointed Postmaster General,
succeeding Herbert Samuel. Pease was eliminated from tho Ministry when
the coalition Cabinet was formed, Arthur Henderson, the labor leader, taking
his place. The new Postmaster Gencrnl is n Liberal.
AUSTRIAN AEROPLANES
ROME, Jnn. 18. Seven Austrian
dropping several bombs. No great
man was killed and several Injured.
TURKS WILL FIGHT. ONLY UNDER OWN OFFICERS
PARIS, Jan. 18. Tho Petit Journal's Athena correspondent says he. learns
from diplomatic source! that DJemal Pasha, commander of tho Turkish forces
In Syrln, after settling the dotalls of the Egyptlun expedition, lias left Con
stantinople for Syria. "DJemnl," says the correspondent, "refused to have
nny German officers on Ills staff, with the exception of one general nominated
by Knver Pasha, Jllplster of War, who Is to act In an advisory capacity and
to exercise no command"
GERMANY JUBILANT AT MONTENEGRO'S FALL
BERLIN, Jan. 18. Rejoicing on a scale unknown since the great victory
at Tnnnenburg In 1914 swept through tho Gorman Empire today over th
unconditional surrender of Montenegro 'to Austria-Hungary.
"Montenegro is the flrst; what Allied country will be the next to quit?"
was the universal comment.
Emperor William has sent a telegram to Emperor Francis Joseph, con
gratulating him upon the successful conquest of Montenegro.
FRENCH HONOR BRITISH HERO
PARIS, Jarj. 18, Captain Bertram F. Hayes, of the British steamship
Olympic, has been awarded a gold medal by the French Government or h(s
courage In rescuing the crew of the French steamer Provencla on October 4 last,
at tho risk of the loss of his own ship. The Provencla was sunk by an Austrian
submarine off the Island pt Cerlgo, south of Greece. 1
i
BERLIN DENIES BRITISH CHARGES AGAINST VON PAPEN
BERLIN, Jan. 18. Semiofficial denial was; authorized here today of tba
British claim that Captain Franz von Papen, recalled military attache to the
United States, paid money to persons responsible for munition factory or
other plots In the United States, It was denied that von Papen ever paid
any money to Werner Horn, accused of attempting to blow up the international
bridge at Vanceboro, Me.
BERGEN FIRE EXTINGUISHED; LOSS $30,000,000
BERGEN. Norway. Jan. IS. The flre that raged in Bergen for several
days was extinguished today, after causing a loss now estimated at J30.000.000,
Earlier estimates placed the fire loss at only 115,000,000. City officials who
visited the burned districts today said that 400 buildings were destroyed.
Three thousand persons were made homeless. Relief is being sent here from
Christlanla and other Norwegian cities.
PETROLITE SAILOR HELD AS HOSTAGE BY U-BOAT
WASHINGTON, Jan. 18. State Department officials admit that they are
Investigating; an affidavit by Captain Thompson, of the Standard Qll tak
steamship Petrolite. The affidavit describes how an Austrian submar(ii
December 8 area upon and stopped the tanker off Alexandria, Egypt, aul
moved supplies. Captain Thompson's affidavit, State Department official ayf
does not give all the facts they will need to pursue the case, but It la st4
to declare that 14 shots were ftred at the ship, one of which, crushed, into th
epgtncroom and Injured a Danish seaman, and that tbe submarine, commander
took pne of the Petrollte'a sailors aboard the submarine M ktld hint mi
I a hostage while he obtained provisions
NEWS
DROP BOMBS ON ANCONA
aeroplanes flew over Ancona yesterday,
property damage was caused, but ono
from tlw f-U
-j I
Til
V
(
