o
Itweaifig'
isi IP inn"
"DO
J 1 LL. JUL
VOL. 52 NO. 15
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
MANUFACTURERS
ACT TO RELIEVE
FREIGhTTANGLE
Will Urge Consignees to Un
load Cars Within Twenty -,
Four Hours.
FIREMEN LOST
U. M. C. CO, BUYS
ANOTHER BLOCK
FOR FACTORIES
Parsoris Foundry Will Be
Moved to North End Lo
cation At Once.
ON FIRST R U r
TO ARiS PLANT
Cauldron of Oil Boils Over in
Foundry and Smoke
Clouds Follow.
I iblliii jBMkM II IM f.S
1 . imiuinii MTiffi ic
sues LUylsLjii
jULJLJ u LDLbLHn
. Omeaiir tmi BLol i- ii i.i ii it - I,-- t
-
Bandits, Numbering: 200,
Government Force, Abandoning: Machine Gun
and 85,000 . Rounds of Ammunition Baca
Varies, Leader of Outlaws is Executed. By
. Firing Squad at Juarez Refugees Report
: PiUaging. :-v,;' v -
Chihuahua, Mex., Jan. 18--Fighting betwneen bandits and
Carranza troops occurred yesterday at Guerrero, 125 miles
northwest of Chihuahua, according to' advices received-here to-.
day. The bandits numbered 200 They fled leaving one ma
chine gun, 85 rifles and 85,000 rounds of ' ammunition in the
hands ofthe Carranza' troops.' , J v ' ;.
"I " Villa Bandit Leader Executed
' ' .' El Paso, Jan. 18 Colonel Miguel. Baca Valles, bandit rchief,
cantured at Pal omas,-south of Columbus, N. M., was executed at
5 o'clock this morning by gt firing .squad at Juarez. Two bullets
fired at cldse quarters penetrated his heart. V
.Baca Valles arrived, at Juarez last'
night on th Irain which brought the
bddy declared to be" that of Jose Rod
riguez, the bandit chief executed near
Madera last Thursday. Baca , Valles,
who was known as Villa's executioner
at Juarez, was marched through the
dimly . lighted railway: station where
fanyj families spend , their sights.
Executions 1 had been so frequent at
Juarez in the final days of the "Villa
"regime, however, , that little Interest
was shown. y ' "3 - -"' -' ' ' ' - V , '
The proceedings were brief. .' The
prisoner said; "I. am not responsible,
for the acta of ."Villa. I beg to 'see
your general." , ' '
VILLA'S OUTLAW BANDS PILLAGING
COUNTRY, MEXICAN REFUGEES SAY
El Paso, Ja.-Ji Morw' haa 100 re
fugees from- Paral, Chihuahua, arrived
here today aboard -a special train
which started from the Mexican min
ing center yesterday afternoon. . They
' reported -thai Villa, bands in , groups
t were scouring the country, clearing
ranches ndotner property belonging
to foreigners of ' everything of value.
...As far as is known. the refugees aid'
- bo one was molested Lfter the eighteen
", Americans, belonging to - the CuslhuI
rachio -- Mining Company ' party were
massacred a. week ago at Santa. Tsa
beL , . ' . " ' ' ' -
" , ' The statement .that the "victims of
the massacre did not carry safe con
ducts when they went into Mexico and
were slain is denied by persons . who
. claim to have seen the passports
.- which were Issued by General Alvaro
, Obregon. "- - . t . ;
. A lumber f Americans on' board
the train, made , the statement thwt
General Obregon is pifcctically a pris-
oner at Queretaro. The , popularity he
acquired on Che border is dSCEtred to J
have met displeasure 'of Carranza. ,
0JS5E.D
EFEAT
TO S13
- Unheralded and wi little attendant interest, a petition; ap
peared last night in the common council reviving' the plan 6f
,the Crane -Co. to close Sotith avenue from Iranistan avenue to
the Banram dyke. - . , ',..'-' . V V
i The petition was referred, to the
committee on streets and sidewalks,
. and it didn't attract much attention. .
After the petition bad been re
; f erred to the streets and sidewalks
committee., -Alderman - MacFayden
, 'proposed thxt a. public hearing on th
matter be set for Monday evening,
, Feb. Y, which is the next regular
meeting ' date of the council. The
- council -later in the evening voted to
' adjourn 'until Jan. 31, but no action
on the petition, can be taken at this
meeting. ' ""v '
Several years go when the Crane
, Co. attempted t( have this street clos-
d it did not own both sides of the
thoroughfare. ..Now, the company
V owns property on both side of South
avenue and along - that section t ad
- joining Barnnm dyke. After a great
''fight and many protests from the pub
: lie, tha council turned down the pe
ttltlon. . . '
Besides ' the fact that the street Is
used often for trucking by other con
cerns than - the Crane Co., the city
uses It frequently for - carting fill to
the marshes west of Barnum dyke.
- Thousands use the stree in the sum
mer time as a short way to the public
bathhouses.
- The greatest objection, according
to those Interested in the matter, is
that the city is filling the marshes'
and soon a considerable part of Sea
side - park will be west of - Iranistan
avenue. The northerly entrance to it
- will be cut off, if the street is closed-,
and, a large detour will b necessary.
Development of the park - will -be
hampered also, it is believed. - ,
Cedar creek dock holders willalso
be inconvenienced, according to per
' , sons interested. '. -
Two 'Other street closing proposl
. (Continued on Fa.es Z.)
Flee Before .Attack By-
The officer commanding -tne nring
squad said h had orders to kill una
he and a soldier stepped close to Baca
Valles and fired . polntblank into the
prisoner's heart. The body was taken
back to the' railroad station where it
lay uncovered until after dawn on the
platform among the men,, women and
qj"4ldren lying about wrapped in
blankets. ( v- .
- Lieut. -CoLv Enrique Cisneros, who
Was captured last week. With Baca.
Valles; is being marched : overland
with eight followers caught with him
and, according to Mexican ofneias,
also will be placed promptly before a
firing squad. ' , A A J v
The body of General Jose . Rodriguez,
former Villa officer, waiS brought 'to
Jaurea laa night. General Rodriguez
was off leially - reported to- have been
executed last Thursday. - Mexiean au
thbrities announced - their in ten tion of
placing the body on exhibition- today
for -the purpose of 'proving to ; Ameri
cans that the -alleged leader of the
bandits who massacred eighteen for
eigners at Santa TTsabel had been" executed-
- -
On October 14 General Rodriguez left
Jaxtrez at the head of 3,000 , (men to
aid inthe Sonora campaign, which
marked the ' downfall of Villa. - Then
he rode in a private car bearing his"
name on. a gilded plate. His body was
returhefd to jaurex in a box car, ' r-
Senora Emilia. Huerta, widow of
General Victor! ano Huerta, in a tele
gram personally appealed to .-President
(Wilson to "stop th persecution", of
her family. .. - ,
She asks that, "persecution be .. not
wvlsited upon his CHuerta's) children
during the time they must remain, in
this country." A
NEARLY $2,000
COLLECTED FOR
INLAND RELIEF
Bridgeporters Give Large
Amount to Fund of . Inter-
national Board.
One of the most sucptasfnl cam
paigns waged Bridgeport for for
eign relief closeltoaay when the Po,
Ustt Relief committee of this city, on
der the dh-ectloh of Dr. B. T-.. femy
kowskl, 405 Barnum avenue, "laid
800 in newly minted gold upon' the
counters -of the Adams Express to.
addressed to Henry- Sienkiewiez, the
noter author and heard of the Inter
national Polish Relief committee at
Vevey, Switzerland.
In a few weeks this money' will form
a' part of the great fund now being
raised' throughout the world for the
cause of humanity, and its purchasing
power will be utilized In Red Crops
work In the heart of the grsa.t fray
that is disrupting Europe. . -
Thfc-Polish Relief committee of this
city will thaiij the various individual,
society and entertainment committee
contrbutors. as opportunity affords, for
their zeal ': the collection of funds
that has resulted so effectively.
BELIEVE PAMPAIGN
WILL AID SITUATION
Waterbury Chamber of Com
merce to Have Conference
With Railroad.-
Manufacturer of Bridgeport today
took first steps' in an active' and sys
ttmatic campaign to aid the- New
York, "New Haven & Hartford railroad
in 11 an attempt to clear up the worst
freight congestion in the history of
the road. - ..
Bridgeport is one of the freight cen
ters of the state where the congestion
is heaviest. Following a conference
m New Haven yesterday betweeen offi
cials of the road and -officers of thte
State Manufacturers' , Association, the
local association today is working on
the following relief plan:
The . railroad will " transmit to the
headquarters of ' the ' Manufacturers"
Association here a daily list of con
signees whqse ears are ready for un
loading. . - - -
The association, will notify consign
ees and urge that the unloading be as
expeditious as i possible, regardless or
the time set for demurrage to begin.
Daily checking up systems between
the 'railroad . and the ' manufacturers
will result, it is believed, in the un
loading-of a large number of cars
within a short time after -they are
placed on sidings. '
In adopting this plan, the " local
Manufacturers Association is acting, in
concert; with siniilar bodies in Hart
ford. "Waterbury, New Haven. 'Bristol,
and other points where congestion is
heaviest; According to the . railroad
officials, it now takes eight days in
stead ,of the customary two days for
the- nnloadihg of a car. This ia due
it is said to the fact that "truckmen
are busy and consignees haven't acted
promptly in the emergency that nas
arisen. '
The Manufacturers Association,, . so
Secretary TV A. Bennett said today,
will give tbe relief rplan . a thorough
trial. If results show that, delays m
unloadins .aren'tfte the cause o"r (the
congestion other steps will be taken.
jar. Jtsennett ana n. otuoiu x.
sented the local body'at the Nejir Ha
ven conference-yesterday. ' : '
WATERBURY ASKS AII
IN SITUATION THERE
Waterbury, Jan. lS.--The- -freight
congestion, on ' the tracks Jf fhe New
york, New Haven & Hartford Rail
road here will be - the subject of a
conference of railroad officials with
a committee of . the chamber of com
merce today. As was the case at New
Haven yesterday, it is expected that
the railroad's conditions will be ex
plained by Vice President A. R. Wha
ley, in charga of operations,' Vice-.
President Benjamin Campbell, in
charge of traffic and General Manager
C. Jj. Bardo on ' the . local j situation.
There were two conferences in ' New
Haven yesterday, and .the facts about
them were reported, it is rfhderstood,
personally to President Howard El
liott last night. ' The first conference
was- tMat of the railroad officials with
a number of local men and the second
with a delegation from Hartford.
The suggestion advanced by the
Waterbury chamber of commerce last
week, that some passenger trains be
laid off temporarily to admit of great
er movement of freights, is now - un
der consideration and it was thought
that the company wpiild shortly issue
another statement'' bearing upon it-
At the first i ponference ' yesterday
Vice-President , -'Vvhaley was asked . if
relief would be 'v afforded by. cancelling
some passenger trains, and he replied
that this would have to be ; carefully
considered.' The problem Just now is
to find trackage for freight" cars
brought into terminals at every sid
1ig, every spare track' was jammed
with cars, and freight houses were
piled to the roof with freight. Ho also
said that the road has motive power
enough to move trains. - What is need
ed, is more tracks on which to set off
the rtains. He alluded to Waterbury
as a destination point for 900 cars
consigned to private sidings as an il
lustration of the difficulty being faced
in that city. . . . . ' ..
It ts thought the .question of taking
off a few local passeqfger trains will
be discussed . at today's j conference
here. ,
SILVER COMPANY
SALES DEPT. HEAD
KILLED BY TRAIN
Meriden, Conn., Jari. 1 8 -Abraham
ITncles, head of the sales department
of the International Silver Company,
was killed by a passenger train today.
He was struck as he was crossing the
tracks onhis way to .the office and
dragged under engine half the
length of the station platform, a dis
tance of about 50 feet before the train
was brought to standstill:
REDMOND DENIES -
HE IS TO RESIGN
London, Jan. 18-Jphn Redmond,
leader of the Irish Nationalists, , de
nied emphatically today a report that
he had asked his colleagues to accept
his resignation' from ' the 'leadership.
THE WEATHER
Tjoeal snows tonight,: Wednesday
fair: moderate to fresh south t west
winds. N
' " "K " ' . ' " . '
FIREMEN OF PLANT
EXTINGUISH BLAZE
First Alarm Over City Wires
Since Plant Was Built
Is Sounded.
Lost in the maze" of the vast Rem
ington Ai ms & Ammunition Co. plant,
firemen called by an alarm from box
No. 75 shortly before 9 o'clock this
morning, failed to find the fire until it
was out.
Because of the immensity of the
plant and the meagreness oj the In
structions given them, .the men' Iost
many valuable minutes trying ' to get
to the blaze. As -a. result, it is likely
arrangements, will be made that when
ever a fire breaks out in the Arms
plant, its exact location will be tele
phoned to headquarters, j
It' was- the first fire at the plant
since its -completion. It was caused
bV a, tank of ' oil that boiled over.
Flaming oil spread rapidly over the
ffloor of the forging room and a fire of
serious woDOrtions appeared to threat-
en The Remington Fire department
was called and under -Chief John J.
Famer, the men smothered the blaze
in chemicals.
The fire was in Building No. 270, the
second one from the front. The oil"
tanks there are set about a foot and
one-half below the floor surface in
groups . of sis:. , , '
. Njobody was burned by the oil and
little damage was done.
RECORDS SHOW
TODAY IS AWONG
COLDESTillF YEAR
Minimum i Temperature of
Nine Degrees Above Zer6
Observer Finds.
' ASnlnimum f emperature of nine .de
grees above zero was recorded -online
government thermometer in care of
weather observer William . Jennings
shows that this morning was among
the coldest" of the entire winter
months.. With temperature ranging
between 12 and 18 degrees above for
the week.last Saturday was shown to
have the record drop when the mer
cury showed at 6 above zero.
The annual report of Observer Jen
nings for the year 1915 shows that in
snow ! and , rainfall the precipitation
was .far below the normal. The total
rainfall in' inches was only 42.91 . as
against v an- average of 48. Likewise
the ' total snowf aH for the year . was
only .30 inches, or about nine inches
below normal. , "-.',.
For those who keep figures on the
annual "weather conditions it will be
interesting to observe that the maxi
mum temperature was 94 degrees, re
corded on July 17 with a minimum., of
10 degrees on Jan. "30.
Th mean temperature for the year
1915- was 62 against a normal of 50.5.
' , Throughout the year the prevailing
weather conditions were pleasant, as
136 days were perfectly clear, 137 part
ly cloudy and only 92 days would be
called unpleasant. On only 117 of
the 565 ,did it rain. The prevailing di
rection of winds was southwests. Thir
teen thunderstorms' were recorded.
The last frost in Spring was observed
May 20 and the first autumnal frost
Sept. 23. - i
The highest . barometer reading was
30.62 on February 11 and the lowest
29.00 Dec: 2-3, xboth reduced to sea-level.'-
, . , ,.
Official : weather reports . for the
ionth of December, delayed owing to
the illness of Observer Jennings who
made his first appearance from his.
house today, shows a well balanced
month, the temperature being - mean
at 32 degrees, maximum at but 52 on
Christmas and the day following, and
minimum at 16 , degrees Dec. 12. The
greatest daily range during the month
was 39, recorded on the 27th, and the
least daily range six Dec. 28. .
Total precipitation for the month
was 5.33 inches, the greatest aftlount
falling on Dec. 18 recorded at 1.47
inches. Fifteen inches of snow fell.
There were eight dear days, 14 partly
cloudy and nine -entirely overcast. The
prevailing winds were severe and from
the northwest. ' . ,
Father Appointed
Guardian of ,Son x
Sued For Divorce
j- Fred J. Piatt of Milford this morn
ing was appointed guardian ad litem
for his minor son, Fred . Plaft, who
was recently sued for divorce by
Corena Martha Richards Piatt of this
hcity. Young Piatt is living in Switz
erland, Fla.. at present. As Mrs.
Piatt is also a minor, her father,
Charles Richards, brought the divorce
suit in her behalf. Int this action she
charged her husband with intolera
ble cruetlty and infidelity but no co
respondents were named. Thee ouple
were married July 15, 1914. The sui
is returnable to the superior court.
PEASE NEW BRITISH
r , POSTMASTER-GENERAL
London, Jan. 18 Premier Asquith
announced In the House of Commons
today the appointment of Joseph A.
Pease, former president of the board
of education and one time ohief Lib
eral whip In the House, as postmaster
general. "Mr. Pease succeeds. Herbert
Samuel, who recently was made home
secretary.
MUNITION PLANT TO
EXTEND EASTWARD
Foundry Landmark Soon
Will Disappear From East
Bridgeport Site.
Papers filed in the capitol jncreas-'
Ing the capital stock of the II. E. Par
son's foundry of Bridgeport, disclose a
change that will be momentous in the
foundry interests of this city.
The It, E. Parsons foundry located
at Barnum, Halle tt and Helen streets
will disappear and .the whole block
probably will . soon be . demolished to
make way for new factory buildings
of the U. M. C. Company.
A new Parsons foundry will raise
its walls-nearly 300 feet in-Jength and
half 'that breadth at the corner . of
North Washington avenue and Fred
erick street where a large tract of
property has been purchased from
Henry, Parrott- ' -
R. E. Parsons, who for nearly half
a century has been active head of one
of Bridgeport's foremost interests has
resigned from the company. The di
rectors of the new company are -John
W. Cottrell, for many, years identified
With the concern, who now appears
as president; Clarence A. Bilton, head
head of the Standard Manufacturing
Company, treasurer and secretary ;
and Frederick Rhodes, secretary of
the Salt's Textile Company..
.J The old ' Parson foundry formerly
known as the Crescent ; foundry, on
the site once, occupied by the- Monu
mental Bronze Co. has been a land
mark in the East Side for- over half
a century. It occupies a portion of
the ground occupied as a .city pound
many years ago, and the ground was
f once owned by P. T. Barnum.
In civil war" days the foundry turned
rfcut thousands of car wheels which
noted all over the United States for
their durability.' At present the site
is occupied by a number of low, ram
bling buildings. --.' -i ?
It was admitted by the new officers
today that the ground had been sold
to agents believed to represent the
Remington Arms-U. M. C. . Company
apd it ia rumored that other-buildings
in the block extending between Barn-
and 'Manle streets either li-
been, purchased or now are- unaer op
tion. Confirmation of such tt pur
chase could not be secured from Rem
ington Arms officials today.-:
GERMANY DENIES
VON PAPEN PAID
FOR BOMB PLOTS
Says Checks Seized in Lon
don Were Used For His'
Personal Business. ,
Berlin, Jan. 18 A. denial that Cap
tain Franz Von Papen, recalled Ger
man militia attache at Washington,
paid money to individuals in the Unit
ed States In .connection with attempts
to hlow trp munitions and bridges was
made today by the semi-official Over
seas News A&ency. t The agency's
statement says: .. . .
"Berlin 'press reports state that the
former "German military attache at
Washington, Captain Von' Papen, .hadJ
tn ' his possession - letters - and bank
hooks, seized by the - British at Fal
mouth, jRrhich contain evidence that he
paid money to persons connected with
explosions ' in munitions , factories in
the United States and to other crim
inal acts. v V
' ' "The Overseas News Agency hears
from competent authorities that these
assertions are- not correct.
"Captain Von Papen's letters and
bankbooks', which were seized In vio
lation of the safe conduct guaranteed
to him, are of a purely personal char
acter or have to do with usual busi
ness affairs. Captain Von Papen
never paid money to persons connect
ed with attempts or alleged attempts
against munitions plants, '.bridges or
any other American property. No
check, ever was paid to Werner Horn
who is accused of an attempt .to blow
up a Canadian railway bridge.
"The letters-1 and checkbook stubs,
if reproduced'' in fac-simile, would
prove that -nothing in the way of
illegal relations was established be
tween the dates of such payments and
of criminal attempts." . .
CONFESSED SPY,
HELD HERE FOR
ENGLAND, FLEES
New York, Jan. 18 Ignatius T. T.
Lincoln, a former member of the
British parliament, and a self -confessed
German spy and who was being
held here pending extradition to Eng
land, escaped from a United States
deputy marshal last Saturday, it was
learned today and has not been seen
since.
MARRIAGE LICENSE
A. marriage license was granted to
day to Burton W. Cromwell, 26, me
chanic, 253 Broad street, and Hen
riettta L. Chaffee, 2 6, nurse, of the
i same address.
Steamer Ryndam Nearing Iondon With Bows
Down and Heavy List Stokers Killed and In
jured, Probably By Explosion Sailed From
New York and is Four Days Overdue At
Rotterdam.
New York, Jan. 18 A
doh, this afternoon, says that
.Kyndam has passed South End, down by: the bows and!
with a list to starboard.
All passengers are safe, the despatch says. Three
stokers were killed and four injured. , J
Because1 of the censorshir, no details Have neen received j
here, as to the nature of the trouble aboard the liner. ;
The Ryndam left here January 4 and was due in Rotterdam j
on January 14. ; , 1
,Severalanonths ago, the Ryndam was forced to put back to j
port here, following trouble.with machinery when several huh-
dred miles out.-'., It. was denied then that a bomb had caused;
the accident. '. ' ' . ' ' ' '
. The brief news despatch frbm JLondon saying that stokers
were killed and injured led to the belief here than an internals
explosion had occurred aboard the Ryndam.
: - ;. .' "
" London, Jan. 18 The Ryndam isx proceeding to Gravesendj
under her own steam. ' : ..... s
Thnature of the accident has not been learned. -
rvncr?rp
mm i
mil vIlbTI
- '. : V-
Allies Request Immediate Dismissal of Teutonic j
Envoys, or Threaten "Necessary Measures" to j
; Accomplish This French and British Troops j
Are Landed at Port of Atjiens, is Report to i
- Berlin and London Montenegrin Fall Causes
i Joy in Germany. V
Berlin, Jan. 1& A note to the Greek government, amounting!
to anxultimatum, is said by the Overseas News Agency to have
been presented by France and Great Britain." jV . .
According to a Sofia despatch to the news agency, Greece
is required to; deliver their passports tothe ministers of tha j
central powers within 48 hours, tailing which the entente wili;,
take "necessary measures." - . V '' . v5
- - - "
-Allied Troops
Berlin Jan. 18 The Gazette received information today tof
the effect that the French and British troops which landed at J
Phaleron, near Athens, have returned to;their ships'.
' Troops Landed at Corinth -
London, Jan. 18 A despatch from Amsterdam to the Exn
change Telegraph Company says thaj,, French and British troops!
have been landed at Corinth, Greece; 45 miles west of Athens. ' ',t
ALLIES LAND TROOPS
, AT PORT FOR ATHENS
London, ,!lan, 18 Reports received
this morning from German sources
state that the Allies have landed , at
Piraeus besides those disembarked at
Phaleron." The Saloniki correspond
ent of the Daily Mail says" that' the
Allies are 'continuing to land troops
at. Orfano, 50 miles northeast of Sa
loniki. 1
Piraeus, the port of Athens, : -five
miles southeast of that city, is the
second largest, city of Greece. It has
a capacious ana excellent naruur uii
Its northwest side and there are two
small harbors on the opposite side of
the peninsula. The modern town has
been built since 1834, though Athens
had a great port there in ancient
times. There has, been no intimation
from any previous source that the Al
lies had landed troops at Piraeus al
though the semi-official Overseas
News Agency' of Berlin, in a despatch
dated Pan. 17 stated that the Berlin
newspapers had published statements
on the landing of troops of the Allies
at Phaleron. It is presumed that the
allusion in this is to the town of New
Phaleron, on the bay of Phaleron.
TURKS HOLDING RUSSIANS.
Constantinople, Jan. 18 The Rus
sia?! forces which recently began a
ffanpml offft?isv ixi the Caucasus are
suDerto? in number to the Turks op- !
oosing them, tout according to the
Constantinople war office offective re- the event was not unexpected as a
sistance is beinrj offered the Russians. ' consequence of the crushing of Ser
Todav's official statement says that bia. , -
' . .'.'-. ''
censored despatch from T.on-,
the Holland-American liner!
mum?
Return to Ships :-
no changes have occurred in Mesopo (
tamia,. the destruction of , a British .:
monitor near Sheik Saad, about "25,
miles down ,',the Tigris from- Kut-El- j
Amara, being the only incident re-1
ported. .'.-..-'. . . .
RERLIN REJOICES QVTIR
HIOXTEXEGRlX RESULT'
Berlin," Jan. -Its. "Berlin newspapers" f
says the Overseas' News Agency, "in;
expressing satisfaction . over the surr
render of. Montenegro, point to the
political' abilities of King Nich.olas and
recall the fact tUat the Emperor of
Russia called him his "unique friend."
It is argued, by the press in its com
ment that if King Nicholas was dis
inclined to follow the example of King1
Peter of Serbia, who at his home in.
an Italian Palace, they say awaits a
filial victory of his allies, after having
been deserted by them, the reason is
that he considers the entente cause
lost." .
Amsterdam, Jan. .. 18. A despatch
from Berlin says that ah official an
nouncement .was. made yesterday in.
the Prussian Diet, before its adjourn
ment, of the capitulation of the gov
ernment of,. Montenegro. The news
was hailed by those present with en
thusiastic applause.
London, Jan, .18. The news of the
capitulation of the government of
Montenegro arrived here too late for
editorial comment in 1 the morning
newspapers. In giving the news, how-
ever, the press generally- explains that
J Li KJ Lis Lis Li
r
t
