Homeless people of Wirt have asked Ardmore for aid. A relief committe has been appointed to distribute funds received
S Sfif.
r.
j VOLUME TWENTY-THREE
ARDMORE, OKLA., TUESDAY, JANUARY, 18, 1916.
NUMBER 88.
FORTT BUILDINGS IN ASHES
FIVE HUNDRED ARE HOMELESS
THE TOWN OF WIRT BURNED AT NOON YESTERDAY,
AND BY FOUR O'CLOCK IN THE AFTERNOON, LUM
BER WAS ON THE GROUND FOR NEW BUILDINGS.
Oil Companies Send Bread to Homeless. Good Order Has
been Maintained. One Hundred Men Stood by Bonfires
AH Night. Town Does Not Need Outside Help. Many
Left Yesterday Afternoon for Other Towns. Explosion
from Vaporized Gasoline Started the Fire.
TO
MORE THAN ONE HUNDRED AM
ERICAN REFUGEES ARRIVE AT
EL PASO.
VILLA'S MEN LOOTING
wiJ. not good business to cancel all
An explosion of vaporized gasoline v- the town, but the local
put. In allies almost an entire city agency not make cancellations and
yesterday in the Healdton oil lields. a few of t.: merchants were protected,
in a little building adjoining the Oil There was'Vgira from the fields
Exchange Cafe, a man was cleaning a 1;,st nigUt. Veh. Aj cf all descriptions
puir of pants with gasoline. The build- jwere used iu "m Persons to
lng was closed, and above the Ironing ! fugling, Wilson a. Ardmore. One
board a torch light was burning. The "lal1 wit Uo suit caHOS was Bee
vapors from the gasoline filled the fudging along tiie icy road two miles
L-ooni and ignited the torch. Flames lrom le ourneu uisinci. maKiiig
filled the building. The cleaner rushed , an auempi 10 warn into vwison.
to the door for his own safety und the I
air rushed in to feed the flames and oil Men Buy Bread,
an irresistible fire was started within Tllre was a scarcity of bread, and
a moment. The explosion was heard :Kd- Itlmer of the Magnolia Petrol
in the little town, and men rushed !eum Company of Dallus who happened
to the scene. W. H. Henson fought 'to be in tho m'luV ordered over the
All Ranches Being Looted by Villis
tas and Everything of Value Taken
Villa's Executioner Taken from
Box Car and Executed.
MDROIED
WITHDISI
AMERICAN RED CROSS PHYSIC
IAN SAYS TWO HUNDRED AND
SIXTY WENT DOWN.
IIBICtlMKELOSI
ENGLAND ID FRANCE Git
E
VIRTUAL ULTIIWflTUIlff TO GREECE
GREECE REQUIRED TO DELIVER PASSPORTS TO THE
CENTRAL POWERS' MINISTERS WITHIN FORTY
EIGHT HOURS.
his way into the building and made
war upon the flumes. At one time it
seemed that he would win, but man
without fire equipments fighting a gas
oline fire must meet failure as did Mr.
in this instance. A few bar-
ater located near the scene
iienson it
Vvls of Wi
hvould havi
I company's orivate w ire three hundred
loaves of bread to be shipped to the
field this morning. M. V. Shriver, S.
J. Hernstadt and others, ordered two
hundred and seventy-five loaves from
Solomon here. This bread was ship
ped, and Solomon had an order for 3H0
ve saved a city, but the water iloavos more whIch 1,0 could uot fll1-
liad uot been provided.
Homes Thrown Open.
As hundreds of men and women ran
from their homes, they were met by
Flames Crossed Street.
i The flames ate their way rapidly
through the row of frame buildings. tlie oiI operators and superintendents
So high did they leap that the street ! wll threw om'n tluir PumP stations,
was crossed and both sides of the 1 tllelr bunk "puses, and their lease
Street were in flames. Men fought as!homes to the bewildered people.
Ibest they could. They were exposed to Uose were found for all women
n intense heat in trying to remove and cIlildre. but about one hundred
stocks of merchandise. The entire llHiU ri-,maillei1 "P a" "'slit in the fields
north side of the street was wiped off, I u"d stood about bon lirts wllile 0110
flot a building is left standing from,of the llard-st snows of the year pep-
in Paso, Tex., Jan. IS. iMore than
one hundred refugees arrived here
early this morning from I'lirral, Chi
huahua, reporting that Villa soldiers
are looting all ranches, taking every
thing of value.
They said that the eighteen mas
sacred Americans carried passports,
signed by Obregon, that the Mexican
officials urged this party not to leave
Chihuahua and that Obregon was prac
tically a prisoner at Queertaro, he
having displeased Carranza by his
border diplomacy.
Colonel Valles, who Is known as
Villa's most callous executioner, was
removed from a box car at Juarez
this morning and executed. He
pleaded for his life, but was not
spared.
Miss Hample of New York Among
Those Drowned Many Montene
grin Reservists From United States
Lost Lives.
Bandits Driven Away.
Chihuahua, Jan. 18 Carranza
troops engaged Mexican bandits who
numbered about two hundred at Guer
rero, near Chihuahua, Monday, accord
ing to advices today. The bandits
fled, leaving ono machine gun and a
quantity of ammunition.
Rome, Jan. IS. Dr. Edward ltyan,
American Red Cross physician, arriv
ing here today, said two hundred and
sixty persons were drowned when
the Italian steamship Ilrindisi struck
an Adriatic mine and sunk recently.
Miss Hample of New York, a nurse,
was anions those drowned. Others
were Montenegrin reservists from
the Unitrd states joining the colors.
Pitiable conditions exist in Monte
negro and Albania, according to Dr.
Ryan.
If Greece Fails to do This, Entente Powers Will "Take Neces
sary Measures" Diplomatic Information at Washington
Today Says, Entente Powers Have Agreed on Formal
Blockade of Central Powers by Enforcement of "Ultimate
Destination" Doctrine Denial from Berlin that Captain
Von Papcn, Who Was Recently Recalled, Paid Money to
Individuals in United States in Connection with Blowing
up of Munition Plants or Bridges, as Claimed by British
Officials King Nicholas of Montenegro Denies He Has
Accepted Peace Terms Made by Emperor William.
I HI
the bridge on the east side of the town,
ta the Fiick-Reld store five blocks to
the west. On the. north side of the
Hreet two buildings are left standing
3own near the creek by the bridge
and from those buildings west the
street was swept clean for something
ike four blocks up to the C. & A.
(tore which is located one door east of
he Dorsey Rig Building Company's of-
ces. Just to the west of Dorsey I
pered down from the heavens.
Buck Garrett on Scene
Sheriff liuck Garrett and several of
his deputies left here yesterday after
noon for the scene. A guard was main
tained about the merchandise, and per
fect order was maintained. There were
only a few attempts made to take mer
chandise by theft. One merchant laugh
ed as he saw two men attempting to
Hand the Jones-Everett machine shops I sU'al B U'e cllain wll,ch weighed 200
vhich were saved. The Dorsey build- Pund!S alld llad a va'ue of about $30.
Yaquis to Fight Zapata.
Galveston, Tex., Jan. 18. Twenty
thousand Yaquis will campaign
against Zapata in southern Mexico,
according to a consular dispatch here
CAMPAIGN FOR
I!
ROCK ISLAND
CONDUCTOR
ISASUICIDE
W. R. BOUCHEE SAID TO HAVE
SHOT HIMSELF DAUGHTER
IS IN ARDMORE AND WIFE IN
McALESTER,
PRESIDENT TO MAKE SPEAKING
TRIP OVER COUNTRY IN THE
INTEREST OF PREPAREDNESS
PROGRAM.
fig was torn away and removed from
te path of the fire, and when the
James died down, the building was
I'aickly put up again,
j It is impossible to get a list of the
iwners of buildings and of their oc
jupants. In all about forty houses
rere destroyed and a conservative es
imate places tho number of homeless
t Cut) people. Some of tho buildings
estroyed were rooming houses, and
aany clerks used the stores in which
hey worked as sleeping quarters,
.uiong the buildings destroyed was
poxt office and the stock of goods
wned by John Whiteman and E. E.
'orhes. Only a small portion of the
tock was saved, and Mr. Whiteman
arried but a small insurance policy,
'he rate was ten per cent and but a
art or the risk would be accepted by
ksurance agencies. Following the
( re last Saturday morning in which
ilrteen buildings were destroyed on
le north side of the street, Kirkpat
ck & Hinkle received a notice from
e Insurance agencies asking if it
When accosted, the men stated that
they were helping to save the mer
chandise. The merchant advised them
that the chain would not burn, and
threatened Immediate arrest if it were
not taken back. The men returned the
chain to a warehouse Into which the
merchant was taking his saved merchandise.
Refugee's Narrow Escape.
El Paso, Tex., Jan. IS. Dr. Teskey,
a refugee, said he had been stood up
with six other Americans to be ex
ecuted by General Rracamenta, who
looted the camp. The telegraph wires
were cut and it was impossible to
call for help. Enrique Rul, Villa's
personal secretary, arrived here today
and renounced further revolutionary
activities.
'f WEATHER FORECAST
I New Orleans, La., Jan. IS.
f The weather forecast for
j Oklahoma for tonight is snow
Mail Was Saved
Postmaster John Whiteman was in
Vrdmore when the fire occurred. The
clerks in the post office saved all let
ters, parcel post packages and stamps
and managed to get the mail over to
Healdton and to send it out from there.
A portion of the John Whiteman stock
was saved, but only a small per cent.
Zan Williams saved about one-fourth
of his stock.
The Roxana Petroleum Company
lost two bunk houses.
The Pioneer Supply Company which
was reported destroyed, was saved.
VV. H. Henson owned the largest
and most expensive building in the
town. It was totally destroyed, with
out a penny of insurance.
Jack Kathary lost his home and his
business, and is said to have been the
a heaviest loser in the fire,
n
FUIHLOF
JIM BRITTON
HELD TODAY
MANY BEAUTIFUL FLORAL TRIB
UTES FROM THIS CITY AND
FROM HIS FORMER HOME IN
TEXAS WERE RECEIVED.
Militia Not Needed.
Some of the men in the town be
came excited and asked the governor
and somewhat warmer. Wed- Sjfor twenty members of the state mill
It tia. As sooh as Buck Garrett arrived
nesday rain or snow.
Local Weather Data
Highest temperature yester
day 23
Lowest temperature last
night 22
Highest temperature same
! r"'1 jcni MSu 0 4
Lowest temnerature same
date year ago , 25
tt joa the scene, he saw that he could nan
8 Idle the' situation without trouble, and
8 j members of the militia were not need-
tt ! ed. One nf t!i nfflppra rnrrtwl thlo
morning by phone that the town was
quiet Good order had been main
tained and there was food enough to
keep hunger away.
Enterprising People
The enterprise and pluck of the mer-
The funeral services for Jim Drit
ton, assistant superintendent of the
city water department, were held this
afternoon under the auspices of the
local camp, Woodmen of the World
at the Carter Avenue Methndhit
church, conducted by Rev. W. T.
Freeman, the pastor.
Many handsome floral tributes
from local friends and from his fir
mer home in Texas were received
this morning. The local camp, Wood
men of the World, of which deceased
was council commander, had charge
of the funeral.
The mayor and Board of City Com
missioners attended the funeral In a
body and all city offices were closed,
out of respect for the deceased.
Every member of the city admlnis-
Washington, Jan. IS. President
Wilson has begun preparations for a
speaking trip over the country in
the interest of the administration's
preparedness program.
Four hundred cities have extended
Invitations.
Sapp Case Continued.
iuiKin, xex., Jan. l?s. The case
against E. E. and Louis Sapp, charged
with murder, was continued to the
May term of court, when several ma
terial witnesses did not show up to
day.
CARTER
BEEF FORTH
111 ZONE
LIKEWISE HORSES AND MULFS
ARE BEING PURCHASED FOR
SERVICE ON BATTLEFIELDS
OF EUROPE.
Word was received here today of
the suicide of W. R. Ilouchee, a con
ductor on the Rock Island, between
here and Haileyville. lie makes the
run from Ardmore to Haileyville and
return each day. He was a man of
about fifty years of age, and had a
wife and four children. His wife was
In McAlester, and a daughter. Miss
Velma, aged 17, is in Ardmore. She
was out to lunch when the Yale room
ing house received the news, and she
had not been located at two o'clock
this afternoon, and did not know of
the tragedy.
The conductor is said to have shot
himself while on his train about 70
mile east of Ardmore. lie has an
elegant family, nnd was a man who
made friends of all who knew him.
Ill health Is presumed to be the
cause.
Mr. Bouchee's entire family was
llerlin, Jan. 18. A note to
the Creek government, amount
ing to an ultimatum, has been
presented by France and Great
Britain, says a Sofia dispatch to
the Overseas News Agency.
Greece is required to deliver
passports to the Central Pow
ers, ministers within forty-eight
hours, failing in which, the en
tente nations will "take the nec
essary measures."
Formal Blockade of Teutons
Washington, Jan, 18. Dip
lomatic information today says
the entente nations have agreed
on a formal blockade of the
Central Powers by the enforce
ment of "ultimate destination"
doctrine.
Russians Outnumber Turks.
London, Jan. 18. A Turkish
official statement says the Rus
sian forces in Caucasus greatly
outnumber the Turks against
whom the Turks are ol'ering
heroic resistance.
An Austrian aeroplane raid
on Ancona, Italy, killed one
person there.
The Teutonic allies have
massed twenty thousand troops
near Saloniki, while the Turks
are preparing to partake in the
Greek campaign.
Few operations are reported
on the western front, but artil
lery engagements are intensify
ing on account of the clear
here from McAlester.
here last week and stopped at the weather.
Yale, at the corner of Broadway, A Merlin dispatch savs. the
over the Akers furniture store, and Cologne Gazette learns that the
he family were arranging to move i rench and British troops land
ing at 1'haleron, Greece, have
returned to their ships, while
Amsterdam hears that the en
tentes have landed troops at
Corinth, Greece.
Hundreds of Bulgarians were
killed when a French aeroplane
bombarded Petritsi, says Athens.
NOON-DAY
LUNCHEON FDR
TIIDRSOJ!
The soldiers of the entente allies
are to eat Carter county meat, and
several hundred head of cattle have
already been accepted by the Okla
homa plant of the S. & S. company,
whose head buyer was in Ardmore
Saturday evening, Inspecting the
stock. A contract for one thousand
head has been entered into hy a
local man, and as many more will be
taken, It is understood, '.f '.hey can
be secured.
Thousands of head of cat!.''? are
being purchased for the allies at the
front for immediate delivery, and the
best that can be secured are being
picked up at the market price.
Xot only cattle are being purchased
In Carter county, but several hundred
head of horses have already gone
from Ardmore and vicinity to the
(CONTINUED ON VA3E e'OVRi
tratlon regrets the loss of Jim Brit-
ton. He was most efficient 'n the battle lines of Europe. Local buyers
di-icharge of his duty, ar-d Comniis-1 have no trouble in disposing of all
sioner London stated hi morning stock that are found suitable to the
that It will be hard indeed toi find a
man to fill his place.
The sympathy of the e-.tfre com-'change has ben located here that
munity Js extended to trc bereaved will deal exclusively in horses and
family in their deep sorrow. J mules fur the, entente powers.
CHAMCER OF COMMERCE WILL
HAVE REGULAR WEEKLY BAN
QUET AND TALK MATTERS
OVER.
The regular weekly luncheon of the
Chamber of Commerce will take place
at the California Cafe next Thursday
at noon. Greater interest Is being
manifested in the Chamber of Com
merce, since that body Inaugurated
this feature, and the membership has
grown wonderfully within the past
two months.
Several matters of Importance will
be discussed over a good dinner and
it is expected that something more,
relative to a new hotel, will be talked
of. The committee has had the mat
ter under advisement since the last
luncheon, and It is reported that they
are prepared to make an interesting
report.
Deny Von Papen's Activity.
Berlin, Jan. IS. The Overseas
News Agency makes an emphatic de
nial on competitit sources thai Cap
tain Von Papcn, the recalled military
attache, paid money to individuals in
the I'nited Slates in connection itii
the blowing up of munition plants or
bridges, as English officials charged.
Denial from Nicholas.
Zurich, Switzerland, Jan. IS. The
Lusanne Gazette eti'cn that King
Nicholas of Montenegro has rejected
formal peace proposals by Emperor
William, made through Prince ci
Buelow, the former imperial chancellor.
LINER RYNDAM NEARS PORT.
CONFESSED SPY ESCAPES.
French or English government, and
I recently a large mule and horse ex-
New York, Jan. 18. Ignacious Lin
coln, former Rritish parllamenter, and
confessed German spy, who wa be
ing held here pending extradition to
England, escaped from the federal
marshal Saturday and has not been
seen since, It wa3 learned today.
Trans-Atlantic Liner Proceeding Un
der Own Steam.
London. Jan. 18. The trans-Atlantic
liner Ryndam, bound for Grave
send, is proceeding under her own
steam, but is listing badly, and her
bows are down. All passengers are
safe, but three Ptokers were killed.
The nature of her accident has not
been learned.
The chances that Ardmore citizens
will have an opportunity of hearing
the great New York Symphony Or
chestra grow brighter each day. Mr.
Elser, who represents this organiza
tion, has wired that he will be here
within the next few days to close all
details.
