bbbbbbbbbbbbbMWMbbbbbbbbWBbbbI
v ""''- " bBbbbbbbbbbbbI
iSBrnssBBBBBBBBBBl
'- Mibbbbbbbbb!
Journal -SSL IjL ' H
Tho successful bustriossj instltu- i l g SI rt .4 .rtftff StI 4'1 M I .11 .' Start tho Now Year out right by j ' i
tlon. of Logan, advertise In Tho Lo- VH'Hk ' 2kPUI ft ' Hi LIP UjU A VL fl II A -"'"'"IblnB for the leading county ,H
gan Republican. Take a hint. U J JI 'W IT papor ?300 por yca maJ , B
""' '"'-' " !, tc ' . , . , j "',H
EIGHT PAQE8 LOGAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH TUESDAY JANUARY 18 1916 FOURTEEN M :'bbbbbb!
, STEVENS PEOPLE
LEASE PROPERTY
I TOjARBER
bbbb
H Cloning Out Retail Implement Bust-
H nets In Logan. Oliver Plows to
Be Carried Here
K
H A deal has Just been closed where
H by tho Sidney Stevens Implement
B Company has leased to Dcrt Harbor
H nnd his associates, Its place of busl
H ncsa on Center street, and It Is un
H dorstood that Mr. Barber Is to bo
H como tho manager of tho new con
B corn. Tho transfer is to tako plnco
B about February 1.
B Tho Sldnoy Stevens Implement
B Company has decided to close out
B i's retail branch stores where a deal
B can bo consummated whereby tho 10
fl cnl dealer will carry tho farm Implo
B ments which arc, being wholesaled by
B the Ogdcn houso. 'Wholesaling and
B manufacturing will bo catered to
B more in tho future than In past
B years. An agreement has been
B reached whereby Mr. Darbor and his
Associates wllj carry tlw Oliver line
fl of plows together with some other
M lines wholesaled by tho Stovens con
I fern.
I Tho new firm has secured tho
agency for tho McCormlck lino of
harvesting machinery which with tho
U lino of Oliver plows will make a
H strong combination. Other lines that
M will bo added aro suro to bo of tho
m very best as Mr. Barber and his as
fflj soclates aro men of cxpcrlcnco in
n tho business nnd know tho noeds of
I this locality.
H Mr. S. O. Stevens who has estab-
llshcd his homo here, having been
H Identified with the concern boarlng
B his father's name, for tho past 22
H years, will remain hero according to
I present plans and look after business
tm or Ws flnn ,n tn,a territory. s'nc
"M the Sldnoy Stevens Implement houso
(IV has boon established here, it has
B supplied farm implements and mach.
B lncry to practically nil the farmers
B In northern Utah and southern Idaho
B and has built up a reputation for
B fair and squaro dealing.
I HYRUM STAKE
I CONFERENCE
B Two Days Services, One at Mendon
B nnd 0ne at Hyrum
B Hyrum, Jan. 17. Tho quarterly
B conference of tho Hyrum stake con-
B vened Saturday at 10 a. m. In the
B ward houso in Mendon. Elder Rudg-
H cr Clawson of the- Council of the
Twolvo and Andrew Jenson, Asst.
Church Historian, represented tho
General Authorities.
Stako President W,. C. Parkinson
B and Counselors presided. Prest Par-
klnson delivered tho opening address
and welcomed the peoplo to tho con
I ferenco. Elder Rudger Clawson and
Androw Jenson used' the balanco of
the time.
H At 2 p. m. tho speakers wero as
follows: President W. H. Maughan,
Elder Gcorgo W. Davis, Elder Wll
ford Murray recently returned from
tho Netherlands mission; Bishop M.
D. nird of Mondon; Elders Clawson
and Jenson.
Tho Mondon ward chapel which
was erected about a year ago was
dedicated. Tho dedicatory1 prayor
was offorod by Elder Rudgor Claw-
son. Tho chapol cost about 118,500.
Tho Church donated ?G,000 and tho
ward sold somo ward property to tho
amount of $3,765, tho balanco was
raised by voluntary donations. It is
a chapel that any ward can bo proud
jj of and wo certainly do compllmont
C tho people of Mondon on their beau-
B tiful placo of worship,
Urn Tho Sunday services wero held In
B tno Hyrum Third ward chapel moot-
B lngs wero hold at 10 a. m, and 2 P.
fl m. with a Y. M.- und Y. l. M. I.
B A- session at 7:30 p. m. tho follow-
B !" wore 'tho speakers at tho morn
H ing session: Presidont A. M. Israol-
B son, Bishop p. O. Hansen of Para-
Hj diso; James L. Jensen, president of
B tho High Priests quorum; Eldors
H Jenson and Clawson. At the after-
H noon session thero was about 1000
B peoplo pfogont and' President Par-
H klnson, Elders Rudgor Clawson and
H Androw Jenson, addressed the meet
B lDBl
RIGHT OF PASSENGER SHIP TO BE1 ARMED
MADE ACUTE OUESTION BY VERDI'S GUNS
i m y& Lt A'v'krflHHHHHHHBBHB1BlHHHBHHHB HHHHHHk HBvJVJHJHlHifllBIv''Vfa'9lHHH
m tflBABBB8HBBBBiKA WU m BBBVSSSvEMfsAwr f 9wjpB9&BHBBBBBBBBBBBBvfi BBBBBBfliBBBA. AMLk v r
Bir 'BBp i HVB n. BBBMlMBMry PBmft viv i if gnfcBif riBBBBBBBBBBBBTi BHrBBBv,l"BL '
BBBBpPBL BBBBBtBBBBBfc .-LJL&"Wa v! y BBBAivnMBHBrflHBHBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBi '-v!- iS juPB
WBBtWJHBBtBWHII-ftrf-IF? i rf-i-v i. L L AituitSyf i?i-nmUtAt fli mm' iTm rV V-"ff'itfKHWWWiWflWTffWWWWBW & I $tl1ii in ) j m 1 1 -ii. rt t ft t ( ' tfE3BIC
fTuSEPPE VERPI sncL ITALIAN SAILOR.5 HAMPLING HAVAU 6UN 1
Photos by American Press Association.
ITbo new Italian liner Giuseppe Vcnll arrived In New Yolk on her second voyage from Qenoa with her W7 piissengors on
hoard and two three-Inch rapid (Ire kuiu mounted on her after deck. When the, steamer nrrlvtxl nt quarantine the mini
had white canvas covers over them, but no attempt was made by Captain Lulgl Zannont or his ofllcers to illstfulso what
they were. The matter aroused keen Interest In view of tho disputed rlnht of merchantmen to carry nuns for cither
offensive or defenslvo purposes. "The trans were placed on the ship at Qenoa this time," said Cuptaln Zunnonl of tho
Gluseppo Vcrdl. "They are to be used solely to protect my possenKors, the malls nnd cargo If we are attacked. These
are 77 millimeter guns, which la a little more than three Inches caliber. They aro rapid nro guns with n capacity o(
twenty-four shells a mlnuto and a range of four and a half miles. Tho shell weighs 5.S kilos, u hich Is about fourteen
pounds," JVhen asked i,tho guns could be fired by any member of tho crew of the liner Chief Officer Mnggl replied that
all seamen and fireman In the Italian merchant service had served In tho navy, but that they wero not nil capablo of
handling guns In -a proper manner, thlH requiring special training. "On this voynge," he said, "wo shipped two former
gunner's mates to tako' charge of the two guns, and from what I have seen of their marksmanship In practice on the
voyage they could hit a fly's leg ot 4.000 yards." Pictures show Italian reservists sailing on tho Gluseppo Vcrdl and
Italian sailors handling gun. I
I DID NOT RAISE
MY BOY TO BE
A SOLDIER
Wo aro giving herewith a letter
rltten by ex-Presldent Roosevelt to
tho Woman's Homo Companion in
appreciation of an editorial, appearing
In that publication for November, on
tho subject, "I Did Not Italso My
t3oy to Do a Soldlor."
To tho Editor of tho Woman's
Homo Companion: Through ou, I
wish, as an American, as a lover of
peaco but a believe In courago nnd
as a man who bolloves In equality of
rights of men and for women , to
thank with all my heart the woman
who wrote In- tho November number
of your tnagazlno on Pago 23, tho nr
tlclo which concluded with tho state
ment that she did rnlso her boy to
bo a soldier, and that If every moth
er in tho country would do tho samo
then wo would bo safe forover from
nil danger of war. I shall use what
this woman said In something I am
about writing; nnd I wish to tuko oft.
my hat to her and to say that, hear
tily though I ndmlro John, tho mast
sr mochanlo who wont to wor and
did not marry his sweetheart until
ho camo back, I admlro that sweot
heart and wife and mother oven
moro; and do toll bar that It was
Mrs. Roosevelt who brought mo tho
article, bocauso sho liked It so much.
Through tho Woman's Homo Com
panion, I would llko to mako this
point to tho woll moaning women
who in their horror of war and vio
lence, advocato tho United States'
adopt an attitude that would inevit
ably oxposo it to war and violence
In addition to tho fundamental wick,
edness for I can cMl It no jess than
wickedness of putting peace ahead
of righteousness, tho men and wom
en who tako this vlow forget tho suf
ficiently obvious fact that tho elimin
ation of militarism In ono country,
If other countries remain militaristic,
amounts to a premium upon militar
ism, In theso last countries.
Thero is not a woman in Belgium
or northern Franco who does not nt
this moment feel that tho Amorlcan
women pacificists are the enemies of
their Injured aud outraged sisters and
are playing tho gamo of those who
committed tho murders and outrages
Tho Belgium women did not ralso
their boys to bo soldlors In sufficient
liumbors to protoct Belgium; nnd In
consequence, tho mothers and sisters
and sweethearts ot theso boys nro
In n stato of sorvltudo and starvation,
nnd many of them have been killed,
nnd many of them hnvo suffered In
juries worso than death. It was tho
militarists of Germany who inflicted
theso wrongs. Dut they woro ablo
to inflict them bocauso of tho folly
of tho pacificists of Delgium.
Tho man and women who In this
country havo been crying ngalnst
proparodnoss for self defenso aro pre
paring tho way to havo this nation
uuffor a disaster greater than that of
llelglum a disaster upon which this
nation has looked with such cold and
Ignoble neutrality. The men and (tho
women who tako this attitude aro
both wicked and foolish. Tho men
who tako this attltudo aro moro
kicked than tho womon, bocauso the
encouragement of cowardlco among
tho men of this nation Is nothing
short of wickedness; but tho women
nro moro foolish, for tho fate of tho
women In Belgium has been oven
worse than tho fato ot tho nton; aud
theso pacificists, peace at any prlco
American woman, theso women who
havo lost the divine flro that was
In tho souls of Julia Ward Howo and
Harriet Becoher Btowo, aro prepar
ing either for thcmsolves or for their
daughters tho kind ot fate that simi
lar action in China has in half ' tho
provinces ot China brought on tho
iipiufct of thnlr women and children
from alien Invaders.
TABERNACLE
BENEFIT ON
FRIDAY EVE
Considering tho had weather, It
was a largo and nttontlvo nudlcnco
that turned out to tho tnbcrnaclo con
crt Friday night at tho tabornaclo
benefit opening. It was a beautiful
sight to see tho placo In its now ap
pearance it Impresses ono ns being
an entirely now building, with tho
changes and decorations that havo
been mado to tho Interior. Tho
Cncho Stako choir under tho direc
tion of S. B. Mltton Is certainly a big
assot to any stako. It consists of
125 voices with Prof. S. H. Clark at
tho big organ.
Two selections woro rendered by
tho choir:
Rouso O Yo Mortals and Hosannah
by Evan Stephens.
Tho Schubort Symphony Club cer
tainly did Justtco to its part of tho
program. All members rendered
their .numbors In n. manner that was
pleasing to tho largo audlenco and
several numbers were recolved With
mich applause that encores wero
given.
It would bo In much better tauto
and wo bollovo thoso participating on
a program would highly appreciate
It if tho public which attonds per
formances at tho Tabernacle In tho
future would olthor stay homo or clso
content themselves In their seats un
til tho conclusion of tho program.
Thero Is no, need oMoavlng the .build
ing .before tho closo ot the perform
anceras'flomq did Friday Jilgl't.
MR, LAWTHERS
DIED IN LOGAN
ONJSATURDAY
Mr. Clyde Lawthers, of Marsh Con
tor, Idaho, died at tho llmlgo hospit
al nt 3:10 n. m. Saturday morning
of liver complications. Mr. l.awth
ors was thirty years of ago and was
a strong, robust limn of moro than
ordlnnry size, had followed an out
door life, ami had enjoyed good
door life, and had enjoyed good
health practically nil his lite. A short
time ngo ho suffered from liver trou
bles nnd came to tho hospital nbout
ten days ago for treatment Ills
condition was such that nn operation
was not feasible, and bo gradually
grow worso until tho end cnnio.
Mr. Lawthers was tho son-in-law
of William C, und Lottlo Hendricks
Underwood, having married Miss Ada
Underwood. Mesldes tho widow ho
leaves ono daughter Lena, six yenrs
of ngo, and ono son Leo, three yrnrs
of age. Tho remains wero taken to
tho Llmlqulst Undertaking Par'ors
whero they wero prepared for burl
ul and wero shipped to Marsh Contod,
Idaho, Sunday morning.
Tho funeral will bo held today at
1 o'clock.
COUNTRY JAKE'S
COMPLAINT
It Is said that music Is tho univer
sal lnngungo or mankind. Ot courso,
this docs not signify that everybody
can speak It, but that all aro more
or less moved by It Henri, being ono
of tho latter, tho series of concerts
which wero held In Logon on the ,13th
14th nnd 15th ot this month woro look
cd forward to with Intort&t'.' It was
thought that a musical treat was In
storo for thoso who would attend.
But, being a country jako and hav
ing a lot of chores to do as nearly a'l
country Jakes havo, I 'was unable to
attend tho concerts of tho 13th nnd
15th which was owing to tho tlmo of
day they woro held.
For obvious reasons a tlmo of day
moro Inopportune than 3:30 p.m.
and 9:30 a. m. would hardly bo
thought of so far as wo of tho coun
try nro concerned. To bo suro, If tho
tlmo was set for tho convenlcnco of
tho peoplo ot Logan only, then It
was Just right, perhaps. But If man
agers ot theaters, concerts nnd tho
like want our patronogo nnd would
havo our thanks thoy should make
It convenient for us to attend too.
Tho tlmo 8 p. m. on tho 14th was
Just right If tho concort, as announc
ed had started at that tlmo, which It
j did not. Tho car from tho south on
wlch wos myself nnd a number of
other music lovors, nrrivor In tlmo.
Hurrying over to tho Tabornaclo, for
fear of being lato, wo woro glad to
llud that tho concort had not yet
started, thougn It was a llttlo past
8 o'clock.
Tho musicians, tho choir and tho
uudlonco woro thero and only a fow
camo after that. Novortholess, It
wns about half past eight before the
concort began. This hnlf hour delay
was tho cause of many losing tho last
two numbors of tho program which,
Judging from tho swoetness of tho
preceding numbers was nlmost too
oxqulslto to loso. But In ordor to
entrain nnd thus Bet homo In decent
tlmo, both thoso of tho north and of
tho south withdrew nt ton o'clock.
Not only to got homo In decent tlmo
but to avoid, had thoy stayed, tho
concert out, a long dlsagroenblo wait
beforo tho departuro ot tho noxt
cars.
As noted In a foregoing paragraph
If tho managers of theaters, concorts
and tho llko In Logan, want tho pat
ronago and would havo tho thanks
of tho peoplo of tho outlying districts
they should set tho tlmo for thoso
shows when It Is not only posslhlo
but convenient for tho peoplo thore
of to attend without losing fart of
tho show or bo compelled to stay up
until tho small hours of tho noxt
morning. A COUNTRY JAKE.
-
John Larson of Mondon, who has
been conducting a confectionery and
.Krocory at that pluco for tho past
yoar and a half, has sold his buil
ness to Edwin, T.. Baur. Mr, Larson
Js figuring on moving .to Logan.
DAVE JONES TO I
MEET TURNER i
AT iMLAD CITY ii
Wrestle to Bo Held at Malad Opera " ""H
House Thursday 'H
Night ''.H
H
Dnvo Jones of tho U. A. C. will ; !H
leave tomorrow afternoon for Ma'.ad " fl
where a wrestling bout bus been ar- M
ranged hotween himself nnd Joo H
Turner, of Washington, D. C. holder j
of tho Pollco Gazette Diamond belt. H
This match In for Thursday ovuulng , ' H
lr. the Malad Opera Houso. Tho V H
wrcstlo Is to go to a finish, best two
out of three falls. Mr Jones goes 'to M
Mnlad in tho best of condition and ho f
Is confident ho l3 ablo to handle IiIh M
man. Tho Malnd boys nro all back M
of Mr. Jones and tho outcomo ot this H
match will dotermlno If a match will
bo nrranged In tho nenrtuturo bo" H
tween Miko Yokel and Mr. Jones, per- M
haps In Logan. 3f.rw 4:1 '- "''H
In tho Thursday) night bout," riayo j i M
Jones will havo all tho money back J H
ot him that any homo product. could H
expect. Somo of tho wrestling 'fans H
Of Malad will back him to win this H
match with their last dollar. Tho'rb H
will bo somo difficulty In taking caTo H
of tho largo crowd at tho opera houso. -j jH
Tho ndvanco sale of tickets is said H
to bo largo and at tho present tlmo 'IbbbbbbbbI
there will bo moro applicants for '
ndmlttanco than tho hall can ncccotn-' l Jk
Mr. Jones has never been", thrown ssH
by nn opponent In his class,' 153 sslH
pounds ringside. In tho first match lpH
with Harbortson of Ogdcn at Malad, Ssftisi
Mr. Harbortson was unablo to win a ''ssB
decision ovor Jones, and Harbert3on ' V-H
at that match weighed at ringside 177 ivislsfl
pounds and Mr. Jones 152. Tho LusHslB
weight olono was a big handicap and I$sbbbbbbbbI
tho Ogdon wrestler was to get two JNfltlH
falls, in an hour which he was .unablo I " j JjLH
to do. . k Sjl
Davo Jones won tho undisputed i i'al
championship of Idaho during the t'l
holidays at Malad when ho met and I'nBH
won from Arthur Chester, of Pocntol- I'jlsllsl
lo. Ho has met such fellows as Earl IIbbbbbbbbbI
Edwards, champion ot Northern I 'bbbbbbbbb!
Idaho; Frank Ducray, champion ot $ jaH
Colorado, and others). ijilisll
. 4! I BBBBBBBBbI
SUGAR BEETS M
ARE CONVERTED
INTO SUGAR
Factories at' Logan and Lewltton fi bbbbbbbbbbI
Conclude a Most Successful h.bbbbbbbbbbb!
Campaign ''UbbbbbbbbbbI
Tho sugar factories at Logan and -H
Lowlston havo concluded their 1015- I y
191G campaign of grinding beets If H
which is considered by tho olllclaia U ibbbbbbbb!
ot tho company, to bo ono of tho I H
most successful campaign in tho his K sbbbbbbb!
tory of tho sugar beet Industry in H iSH
Cncho Valley,' At Lowlston, tho Ii .H
factory ground upwards of 98,000 tons H lM
ot beets and concluded the run at ''jj-ftf-l
noon on Saturday. JUIssbbbbbI
Tho Logan factory concluded Its "fi 'H
grinding at 8 o'clock yesterday morn- I 'H
ing and ground 85,000 tons. U , SH
With tho conclusion ot theso cam- n f-ftfj
paigns, thero will bo approximately M jiH
100 men who have had steady work H
Mr tho past four months, let out ot bbbbbbb!
employment. Thero will bo a 'fow rlill
moro than this numbor let outdt j IH
work at the Lowlston factory. How-
over, as soon as the work of tho re- JH
pairing tho factory begins, a numbor LbbbbI
ot theso mon will again bo placed on H
tho pay roll. ;'
JsbbbbbbI
SNOWBLOCADE 1
STOPS CARS OF
INTERURBAN
H
Tho deep snowdrifts near Colllnston 'liBfl
yesterday stopped tho running of VI
through cars on the electric lines all i'flKfl
day. Tho cars run regular scb'c'dulo jiyBII
from Preston to Mendon. About lit- SKfl
ty men were sent, out from Ogdentr sllHH
shovel snow and it is oxpectedVthat hUbIbO
the regular schedule -will bo resumed. SkHI
this morning. lHn
'-feyiiysM
