THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIX-NO. 2G0.
JIAHHK, VEHMOXT. TUESDAY, .JANUARY-. 18, 1910.
PRICK. ONE CENT.
MONTENEGRO'S
COLLAPSE WAS
INEVITABLE
Ever Since Serbia Was
Crushed by the Teutonic
Allies, It Seemed Certain
That Her Small Neighbors
Would Share the Same
Fate
AN ACTIVE FACTOR
THUS ELIMINATED
A New York Woman Now
Known to Have Been Lost
in the Sinking of the Ital
ian Steamship Brindisi
When 260 People Were
Drowned
The Balkans continue to be one of the
chief centers of interest in the war news,
although Montenegro's plea for peace
means the elimination of one active fac
tor in the military situation there. Mon
tenegro's military collapse seemed well
nigh inevitable after the Teutonic allies
had crushed Serbia.
An Austrian aeroplane squadron has
again raided Ancona, Italy. One person
was killed and Rome declares the prop
erty damage was unimportant.
Late reports show that 260 persons
were drowned in the recent sinking of
the Italian steamship Brindisi. Miss Ste-
fania Hample, a nurse among those
drowned, lived in New York. She left
Canada in December with a Red Cross
expedition.
The entente allies are paying small at
tention to the report that allied troops
have been landed near Athens, as the
German press indicates.
London, Jan. 18. Reports to-day from
German sources say the allies have land
ed forces at Piraeusi, besides those
which have dLembarked at I'haleron
daily. The Mail's correspondent ' says
the allies are continuing to land troops
at Orfano, 50 miles northeast of Salon
iki. Berlin, Jan. 18, by wireless to Say
ville. Berlin newspapers, according to
the Overseas Agency express the belief
that the landing of allied troops at
I'haleron, five miles southwest of Ath
ens, is considered as supplying proof
that the entente powers intend using
extreme means to force the hand of
Greece.
as received here from Vienna says. The (
Montenegrin government adds the state-
ment, accepted the Austrian conditions,
according to the news agency report
which u as follows:
"Montenegro ask for peace," stated
Count J Ih.h in the Hungarian i'ariia-
merit.
"The proceeding under the first para
graph of the order of the day had jut
been completed when (cunt Tisza asked
permission to interrupt the discussion.
He stated that the king and government
of Montenegro had asked the inuugura
tion of peace negotiations.
I lie statement created a great com
motion in Parliament.
"We asked that beforehand Montene
gro unconditionally lay down her arms,"
continued the premier.
"Joyful shouts followed this state
ment. .
"Just at this moment," continued the
prime minister, "the news has arrived
that the unconditional laying down of
arms has been accepted.
.Since the preliminary condition lias
been fulfilled," added the premier, "peace
negotiations will be entered into im
mediately."
CANNONADING ON WEST FRONT.
But No Events of Importance Took
Place.
raris, Jan. 18. The French official
statement announced to-day that there
was intermittent cnnnoadinir last night
at various points on the front. It say
the evets were unimportant.
TWO BULLETS
FOUND HEART
Col. Miguel Baca Valles, a
Mexican Bandit, Exe
. cuted To-day
WAS BROUGHT BEFORE
A FIRING SQUAD
Protested His Innocence Up
to the Moment of
Execution-
PRATT UNDER ARREST.
The foregoing contains the first inti
mation from any source that the allies
have effected a landing at Phaleron.
The news agency's statement says:
"Berlin newspapers commenting on
the latest news regarding Greece, unite
in stating that the entente seems to
have abandoned all regard for Greece
And Is Charged with Manslaughter a
Deny, N. H.
Derrv. X. II.. Jan. 18. Francis A
Pratt, a Boston manufacturer, was ar
rested yesterday afternoon by High Slier
If Ceylon Spinney, charged witn man
daughter in shooting Jesse Sebastian, a
colored employe on Pratt's farm in the
southern part of this tow n.
Mr. Pratt when arraigned before Judge
Herbert L. Gruinell here yesterday after
noon claimed the shooting was in self-
defense. He was ordered to-furnisli Jl,
000 bail for his appearance at the May
term of superior court.
WESTFIELD FACTORY
REOPENED TO-DAY
Over 100 Policemen Were Present and
No Disorder Was Reported Only
150 of 1,100 Workmen Resumed
Their Places.
Westfield, Mass., Jan. 17. Over 10ft
policemen were on guard to-day at the
reopening of the Smith company s foun
dry, which was closed several days ago
on account of a strike. Xo disorder was
reported, and the police stated that -150
of the 1,100 employes returned to work.
F.fforts are being made to reach a set
tlement.
250 FACTORIES
CLOSED BY STRIKE
Garment Workers in Philadelphia Go Out
for Higher Wages and Improved .
Working Conditions.
Philadelphia, Jan. 17. Two hundred
and fifty factories were closed o-day as
the result of a strike of 6,000 garment
workers for higher wages and improved
workimr conditions. Nearly all the strik
ers were women and children. The fac
tories were picketed.
Kl Taso, Jan. 18. Colonel Miguel Baca
Valles, a bandit chief captured" at Palo-
mas, was executed early to-dny by a
firing squad at Juarez. Two bullets
fired at close range entered his heart.
Over 100 refugees from Chihuahna ar
rived on a special train from Mexican
mining centers to-day. It is reported
that groups of Villa bandits are scour
ing the country, stealing from the for
eigners property of value. The refugees
said nobody, so far as they knew, was
molested after the party of Americans
massacred a week ago.
General Huerta's widow, in a person
al telegram to President Wilson, urged
him to stop the persecution of her fara-
iiy. . ,
Baca Valles, known as Villa's execution
er at Juarez, arrived last night. There
hae been so many executions lately
that the shooting attracted little atten
tion. Before being shot the prisoner
said: "I am not responsible for Villa's
acts. . I beg to see your general." The
officer commanding the firing squad said
DRIVER OF CAR
WAS ACQUITTED
Henry Fecto, Professional Chauffeur,
Was Indicted by Grand Jury in
Case of Mrs. Emma Rogers
of Tunbridge, Who Was
Killed in Accident.
TWO DIRECTORS
ARE SELECTED
To Fill Vacancies in the Na
tional Life Insurance
Company
EX-GOV. McCULLOUGI
"Woodstock, Jan. 18. In the case of
Henry Fecto, professional chauffeur of
Windsor, indicted by the grand Jury for
the killing of Mr. Kmiiia Roger of
TiitiliridirA on th 21lt.ll of (Vtolicr lust
year in sn automobile accident a little V. j xlLlS) dJujVjEjUd
below the village of Windsor, the jury
after being out about five hours yes
terday, brought in a verdict of not guil
tv,
The state charged the respondent wif.i Dl. A. B. BlSDee ChOSCn Dl
criminal negligence, and it evidence rector Jn Place Made Vacant
leiiueu u now muv rii'iu wa running i , ,
his machine at the rate of fifty mile DV J. A. DeBoer S Death
an nour, ami mat, aimougii lie claimed
he had to turn-out for a team and thus
got oil the road, his track wa straight
past where he said the team was. Jt
was also claimed that he ran into
tree which caused most of the nartv to
. .1 - i . t ....' r i ..
he thrown from the automobile, and company at tne nome omces in .vmiiipv
that Mrs. Rogers wao found on the lier to-day two new names were added to
ground witn a severe iraciure or t"e the list of directors, they being Clarke C.
"T..".i..n";:. kS. ; U of Brattleboro, former attorney
in a hnstiital the next da v. The evidence, general of the state of Vermont, and l)r,
tended further to show that the brakes A- n- ."'"bee of Montpelier, who for a
on the machine were not in first class '""ft " wen emmeeted witn tne
order. company at its offices in Montpelier.
Evidence (or (li resnnndent nllnn-.wlMle elections were to fill vacancies in
that he drove the nartv about seven l ,c 'rectoraie causeu oy ueawiuur.ng
... . - . 11. AC. LMi. .AnAlmr A- -
"clock from Windsor to Claremont, and "" i'"v J , ,
th.t hr. K.-t in..vi...iin n-overnor donn t.. .ucvunougn oi ien-
iquor to drink
nuurta U'ori rn
,-i,i-rKia .i,;..i,;.. ,. The annual meeting was called to or
ay back, and that one of the party " " -
ipt offering liquor to the 'respondent,
which he steadily refused; that he of
lerod it just at tne place where the au- FIREMEN TWICE CALLED
lomoDiit; icit tne rcaa wtucn was one
At the annual meeting of the stock
holders of the National Life Insurance
cause of the respondent's losing control to Cope j, Smuig. ,t the "Templeton
eal of the party were intoxicated al- Hous " North StrMt'
though the respondent wa not, having . Twice within a comparatively few
had only one-third of a whiskey glass hours firemen were called to the big
full of liquor in Claremont. The respond- houe at the corner of North Main and
cnt testified that he was not going more Granite streets to fuss with a stubborn
than about twenty miles an hour, and little blaze in a refractory chimney,
that he was compelled to set the brakes Around 6:30 o'clock last night occupants
he had orders to kill and the execution Liowiv for fPnr f .kidding on the grass of the house sent in a telephone call and
and turning turtle. There was also con- the auto truck with a handful Of fire
followed.
DENIAL IS ENTERED
FOR VON PAPEN
siderable evidence showing the respond'
ent s good reputation and character.
CARRIES HIS 90 YEARS LIGHTLY.
mer Military Attache at Washing
ton Embassy Did Not Pay
Money for Blowing Up
Munitions Works.
AIMED GUN AT POLICE.
Charles Sargent of Rutland Was Then
Persuaded to Put It Down.
Rutland, Jan. 17. Armed with a high
ers
men responded. Hack of an ornat mar
hie front fireplace, long in disuse, the
firemen found a sizeable niche in which
shoes, bottles, cans, etc., were stored
Live coals dropped from a stovepipe con
I nection above were responsible for th
German Semi-official Aeencv Savs For- Albert TohonnotL Montoelier's Oldest blaze, which was quickly extmgiimhe
M1 RenirfenK nWrv. i.jv.,nr "n a second can came at m.iu ocioc
, - j I.,. a:. ini.jj;.....! !,; ,...,
I L ii in iiiui lllli , v-liir I vjinuuiit,; miiu iita 11,14
Allien .lononnott, a native oi mrre, is wasted no ceremony in getting at t!
to-dav observing the flOth anniversarv of seat of the trouble. The ornate front
- - i . .... ,
his birth, at his home. 18 I.oomis street. wM removed iortnwiti ana quantities iw
, , - , , , i mu(, w irc iujmtii i ruin ina .iii;c in n
l,.v,,. v..c ,T of firtDiaf. There wss very
iiernn, wireless, ,ian. i. a denial cipient to-uay oi many mrtnaar remem- little damntre.
that Captain Von Papcm the recalled bra nces. and friends called to wish him I The building, as well as adjacent prop
German military attache at Washington, many happy returns of the dav. Mr. "nectea ny sncus, is o peo ny tne
i i i -, , . ,, ., ... . ., ... . .. . . itarro savings niinK j; irnsr company.
paid money to individuals in the Lnited .Tohonnott is the oldest male resident of jrrank Soldini's family and Tlmmas
States in connection with attempts to Montpelier, where he has resided since Stone are the occupants of the first and
blow up munitions factories or bridges 1S63, when he moved from Barre. In the second floors, snd directly under the fire
w.. nia.U 4s.t!i. il,o ;.nffii0 uK, n i Inii'i, A In,l P""1. m oemein rginii, lire urn
- , I 1 I UA f4t TAS,nla l;,Mr in ha
" m"J I aiiartnient lielieve that a fire amool-
He carries his four score and 10 years nWd in the hidden wall eomnartment all
lightly and is expecting this week to re- nis-ht. although the firemen were' inclined
reive glasses from an oculist, having nev- Uo the belief that fresh coals from the
sr worn spectacles with the exception of stovepipe ignited the rubbish again. Ni
lew nine w lien reaiiin. l o-nay ni I more trouble 18 anticipated.
visum spenis as goon as ever, out to re
Iieve the strain glasses were advised.
Until four years ago Mr. Johonnott
FITTING OBSERVANCE QCCr PUADTFP
OF GOLDEN WEDDING OLLIV OnilX I LIA
Mr. and Mrs. Nathaniel Bond Were the
Giests of Honor at Anniversary Cele
bration Arranged By Knights
Templar,
- Fiftv year of. wedded life were cele
brated in a signally fitting manner t
Mmmmiic hall laxt evening when nearly
2(fl poopln came together to observe the
golden anmveriMiry of Mr. and Airs. a-
thaniel llond of South Main street. The
affair was held under the aiiNiiices of
St. Ahhmmr comnmndery. No. 11, CHARTER LAPSED FOR
initnim icminHr. aim un niniiiinrnMi
way in which the reception accorded sir,
and Mrs. Bond wus carried through to a
suei-esiiful termination wa a tribute
alike to the worthy couple and to the
committee of knights. It was a note
worthy mnnifotation of the esteem in
which the couple are held by a large fol
lowing of acquaintance formed during
their lonsr residence in llarre.
The knights wore their regalia and the
spectacle wss one long to be remem
lered. At 8 o'clock there was a recep
ion with Mr. and Mrs. Bond. Judge F. J,
Martin and Mrs. Martin, Mrs. Courser
and Mrs. Brown, sinters of Mrs. Bond,
RESTORATION
Chrysotile Railrc'' "Jo. De
sires to Build to the
Lowell Asbf' Mines
NON-PAYMENT TAXES
Charles H. Thompson Re
leased from the Asylum
C. E. Rogers on Probation
By agreement of counsel, the contested
divorce case of Amelia Blaine vs. Fred
and Dr. K. B. Whitaker in the receiving Blaine of Willianiftown, an Orange conn-
line. Past commander. Noble S. Love. v cane, i h.iiiir hoard in WiiHliWton
tiavo i&uciiiuuiicu bu iruniu ui wwb fc, i ,i , , , . , . , c
. . , , , .. 'powered rifle which he aimed at utliceri
neutrality and sovereignty. The landing ; 'Mftrtin Kennedy Rnd Thomai C. E1.
luleuu ,B cos,uereu a prooi mas , worth threateninff to blow thoir hpa(Ig
the entente is now going to use extreme . - if thpr pn " t,,p ronm ,,.:,.
means for forcing Greece.
According to private reports the
he was standing guard. Charles Sargent,
son of the former proprietor of the
r' 1. l 1 A B 1 X
r VL V . i "a"'erT PT4 American house on Wales street, kept
or the state archives to Lar.ssa, ,n;the offlcerg at for 8evera, m'inutes
northwestern Greece, wliere eventually t. 4 . , ... ' , ., . .
the Greek irovernment likewise will h 1 Saturday nieht wlllIe they were at'
the ureeK government likewise will be temptiripr to arrest the man for threat
transferred. - . 1 ... , ,, , T 1
T.. . ,,,,,, T, ... , ., , ening the life of Mrs. Nancy Baird
"The fact that the British are block- x- " t. . a u j
., , . . .. ... , oyes. Sargent finally put the gun in
admg the Greek coast most tightly and . ' T u w i . ..
. .,e a corner and as he straightened up both
are subjecting Greece to other incon-1 Iiccmen jum d 0 hiUck, overpow-
vemences is interpreted by the papers nitnJonl' after ft hard 8trlf
...B ... ...v.... . .v,. ...... WV.,.1 lout oil mororal miniif
Overseas News agency.
SYSTEMATIC NATIONAL DEFENSE
Urged by Secretary of War Garrison
Opposition Well Organized
New York, Jan. 18. An appeal to the
people oi the Lnited states to organize Conducted a furniture business with his
in support of a systematic national de-1 son in Montpelier and took an active in
fense was voiced by Lindley M. Garrison, terest in the management,
secretary of war, in an address last night
RETIRED GRANITE DEALER.
ing and preparing to overthrow the
Greek government in order to substi
tute a republic with Venizelos at its
head. Gratitude is unanimously ex-
Handcuffed and without coat or shoes
Sargent wag removed to a cell in the
police station where he remained all
night. Yesterday morning he asked the
Benjamin J. Richaali Died at HaUowell,
Me., Aged 79,
Hallowell, Me., Jan. 18. Benjamin
J. Richards died at his home on m
throp street yesterday. The funeral will
be Wednesday afternoon
Mr; Richards was nearly 80 years old
and was born in Frankfort. Me., a son
of Rev. David and Susan Richards. In
early life he moved to Vinalhaven, where
he began work for the Bodwell Granite
Whatever the weather he takes a walk
ovnrv rlar an A nfton tnnlra a ir'm Anwn.
at the animal banquet of group eight of town Bprin(? Mr j0i)0nnott wfts
the,ew loik State liaukers associa- taken seriously ill with a cold which de-
tion. Group eight is composed of the hooped into" pneumonia and his life was
bankers of New York City. almost despaired of. Until thnt severe
Secretary Garrison declared that the illness he was as active as a man 30
opposition to national defense is well or- years younger, the illness leaving him
ganized and that unless the people of the without his customary strength.
desire adcouate national defenaa the nres- honnott is fond of relating his experi- eommny in 1854 Ten years later he
..... ..,.., ,..i,;v. k ....i,..- m .i. Unwii hen hov eomnarintr the eondi. was made superintendent of the qusr
r'" 'j '" ""- "-"IT : " ,1 iuth l.
nttw v nn " h rti nul tions t tirpe-nuartcrs ot a eentnrv atro u "" " -
National defense., thn aeeretarv stated, witn those OI to-oay. ..,,
m , n otimoi i. r-iff 1r .Tnlmnnott win the son of Tef.p amies at tne iiauoweu uranite worm,
.nn.ikiiitv ..i ' ,..,,! .Tnhonnntt. lr.. who settled In Rarrp in He has been retire! since 1S!8.
f Tirim.liilu rf all miliiarv f. 1708 and in tint Part of the town now ir- Richards belonged to the Odd iel
fairs, he said. A real military policy. nown as South Barre and for vears con- low "! KnighU of Pythias and was a
,.aTO i:arn.n au.w l. v,n. dinted a tannerv. The .Tohonnofs ot-neil Ju degree Jiason. lie was a me mem
......v.. j ....... . .. . ,. . ... 1 1 m... ii-i.4 f v;...l
tinental in scope, and the federal govern- a leather store in jinrimgton and it was "" '
ment must be in authority. All propos- the fystom to send the boy by team to naven, oeiongea to rving ooiomon cnap
als. he said, to build a military system that place witn a load oi leather and re- r, ixmg muiu couum mm ownjr cum
for the United States Uon the basis of turn with a load of lime. It usually mandery of Augusta
m . . , , - , , . iiiK'iix ji con i uaa j uni funic tie ivc mc ; 1 vi 1 115 aviiivtu i.'ini' o uinia I'nnio v v 1. ...... . . . v r,
pressed by the n.-wspap(rs that the m h t h had , . The state trMps are proposals to continue a took three days to complete the ronnd In 1859 he married Miss FJlen Spauld-
.. . , . v"v"- matter was reported to Mate s Attorney
v.....l,.I Ik. !.: - mane, .
'"f-, 1 V ,, ;r I g . T;C V. Poulin Saturday night and he at
will frustrate all attempts against the! . . wftrV ' t, ra
country's sovereignty and the king's life.
"The Zeitung An Mittag declares that
the entente intends the assassination of
the country which refuses to commit
suicide."
BRITISH EXPLAIN
MONTENEGRO'S FALL
And Declare That Rome Advices Say Al
bania Is Adequately Defended and
Situation as to It Is Mora
Reassuring.
London. Jan. 18. The press here gen
erally explain that the capitulation of
the Montenegrin government was not un
expected as the consequence of the crush
ing of Serbia. They declare that Rome
advice are more reassuring from the al
lies' viewpoint with regard to the posi
tion of Albania. They say that Albania
is adequately defended and that Italy
has taken projier measures for safe
guarding the king of Montenegro.
MONTENEGRO ASKS PEACE.
Austria Cava Conditions Which Former
Government Accepted.
Berlin. Jan. 18. via wireless to Say
ville. The king and the government ff
Montenegro on January 13 aked a ces
sation of hotilitie and opening of
peace negotiations, it wss olTi.La.llv an
nounced hy A nstro -Hungarian headquar-'
tern Testerday. j
a signed statement from Mrs. Noyes,
The officers removed the gun from
Noyes' house, No. 2 Edson street, where
the affair took place, to the police sta
tion where in the presence of several
witnesses the gun was relieved of 10
loaded, 25 special shells.
SPANISH STEAMER
BELCICA IS LOST
Twenty-Three Members of Her Crew Are
Reported Saved The Ship Was at
Heysham, England, Dec 12.
Ixmion, Jan. 17. The Spanish steam
er Belgica has been sunk. Twenty-three
members of the crew were saved. The
last record of the Belgica tivfiwcd her
arrival at Hrysliam, Kngland, Dec. 12.
.;fat;nn that ia "illnanrv nd nr.t real trin. . ing of trankfort, who died in 187. He
that is a sham and not substantial, that In 1852 when Mr. Johonnott was town was married again m 189 to Mia t.
is a mockery and not honest." clerk and treasurer the amount raised on Rosa of this city, who died last June.
The secretary said that while there is the grand list in Barre was 11.200, ae- He leaves a daughter, Mrs. John A. Dag-
disagreement amonff military experts as cording to his recollection. There were gett of Manchester and two sons, Ben-
tn th narticnlnr number of trooos need- scarcely 200 taxnavers. Another dint ine-I jamin R., of Augusta and Carl L.. of
ed, all views agree upon the essential I tion which Mr. Johonnott acknowledges
principle that the troops should be na- is that of being the oldest man to have
tional troops. There must be, he contin- quarried stone, from the Barre quarries,
ued, a regular stadning army and organ- He operated on a small scale in 1857 on
iwd federal troops subject to instant call, the Ben Thompson farm, the estate be-
This, he said, has been called a conti- ing in hi charge as administrator,
nental army. In support of this princi- . The grsnite obtained from the surface
pU, the secretary said, there must be co- ,a's used for underpinning and the regu-
hesive organization to combat the ele- lar price paid was 32 cents a running
ments supporting a system founded upon foot for a block slightly over two feet
troops under state authority.
JOURNALIST AND CRITIC.
HAD TRIED SUICIDE.
But Police Came Before Gas Took Al
leged Murderer.
Haverhill, Mass.. Jan. 17. A man
found unconsciou in a gas llllr l room
in a hotel vestcrdav was id.-ntified a
Jules Suit. Ids. a grocer of Brockton,
wanted by the Ijurrence police on a
charge of murder. The man aa sent
to a hospital under guard to await the
arrival of officers from Lawr.-nce. His
condition is not ennsidem wrious.
Suitdns is aUVfrr to have shot and
killed hi year old baby and to have
wounded bi ife eriilv in I-awrriwe
Miss Jeannette Leonard Gilder "Died in
I New York.
New York, Jan. 18. Miss Jeannette
T rA fil.L.r inurnllitt anH fri t
...... .. - , k. Kira Tl.. far
here fcist night alter r . , ' ,
dava resulting from a b,,t ' was ey.,lentlj
high and eight to ten inches thick,
The Thompson farm comprised 172
acres of land and included that territory
which now boasts the Wet more A Morse
and other big quarries. In order to settle
the estate in 1857 after vainlv trying to
sell the farm for a paltry $2.tl) for
this city, and two sisters. Mrs. Frances
(inn of Vinalhaven and Mrs. Charlotte
Huff of Saco.
OLD BOARD RE-ELECTED
At Annual Meeting of the Quarry Sav
ings Bank.
Stockholders of the Quarry Savings
Bank A Trust Co. gathered at their bank
ing rooms in the Howland blink this fore
noon' at 10 o'clock and re-elected the
following directors: Ben A. F-astman.
W. H. Mih-s, A. P. Abbott, J. M. Bout
well. K. I- Scott. H. J. M. .lone, H. 1L
Jackson, H. F. Cutler, W d. Reynolds
James S. Wilson, jr.. Walter P. Scott ' wl... i,f... t.,.i....
and George N. Tihlen, acted a a com- - , ' b
mittee of introduction. Afterward there man an(l Hajward. The petitioner seeks
was an enjoyable musical and literary the divorce on ground of intolerable He
program, beginning with an overture by verity. Stanley F. Wilson represents the
'nrrolls orchestra. A quartet consist- .. . ... v,,.i, m.
ing of Dr. 1). C. Jarvis. William Inglis. " '. ' . '
Fred Inglis and George F. Mackay sang an(1 ,,Imm 1,lte aI'Ptar for th
nd there were very interesting readings I fendant. .
y Miss Florence Hinkley of Montpelier Reinstatement of the Chrysotile Rail-
seminary. ITotessor Lan.li rendered a road chartered bv the 1010 leg-
t'Wiltn arvln an si linn ounh nf Hmafl VL'hfk I . '
had contributed to the program was com- ilHture, is the object of proceedings'
pelled to respond again. started in chancery court. Frank A.
Truly indicative of the abiding friend- Walker of Barre and Erwin M.. Harvey of
ship which many hold -for Mr. mid Mrs. Montpelier petition tlie court to have the
Bond were the felicitory remarks made i,tate allow the railroad company ngaiii
by Judge Martin at the close of the pro- t0 assume its charter, which it ost when
ram. He referred feelingly to the place 0110 of the incorporators failed to nay
hich Mr. and Mrs. Bond have made for the taxes dun in 1015.
themselves during 30 years of residence The papers tiled in the case assert that
n Barre, reiterated the congratulatory it ia the intention of the company to
messages extended earlier, in the even- build a railroad from cither Newport or
ing. and ended by presenting them a purse Trov to a point or points on the St.
of $50 in gold. There was a response by Johnsbury fc l.ake Champlain line, to aid
mt. isonu, wno spoKe ior nimseii anu )n developing the asbestos mines at Low
wife, and then the entire company re- ell.
paired to the banquet ball for refresh- The petition brought to secure the re
ments. IMineh and wafers were served lease of Charles H. Thompson from the
by Miss Katherine Afartin, Miss Merle insane asylum, wliere ho was confined
Gow, Miss Marion Tilden, Miss Coriiline over n decade ago following his con vie-
nderson and Miss hreda Jadd. tion on a statutory charge, was argued .
For sprightlier members of the annl- yesterday afternoon with the resulting
order from Judge Waterman that the
man be released and placed m charge of
one Henry Pareher.
Charles h. Rogers of Cabot, who plead
ed to a criminal assault on a young girl.
ersarv party, and they were in the ma
jority, too, there was a pleasureable pro
gram of dance orders after lunch. Car
roll's orchestra played for the dancers,
and for those who did not care to pursue
the more strenuous there were opportu- was given a year's sentence in the houso
mtiea for sociability. of correction; sentence was staved and
The committee of St. Aldemar knights lie was placed in the hands of the proha-
ln charge ot the anniversary were: .m. u. tion ofliecr until lie is of age.
Mower, Dr. Joe V. .lackson, ,i. W
SEEING THE QUARRIES INDOORS.
Interesting Tour Made By Aid of Lan
tern Slides.
Rev. George II. Holt of the Baptist
church t tented a partv of friends last
tor of the West Concord Congregational e!.'e"" to a. Psojial y conducted tour
i i. i 4U..4 : v. i,7,.. T . of the quarries and stonesheds, making
Sowles, Homer C. Ladd and Arthur C.
Tilden.
The wedding of Mr; and Mrs. Bond
took place in Ucst Concord, N. H., Jan
1(1, 1800. the ceremony being performed
bv Rev. Mr. Tenner, known to another
generation of Aew Hampshire church
goers as "Priest" Tennoy, who was pas-
i nun Jrw vuat, c i nix , .u. jiiiv ' n o .
superintendent of quarries in Concord i"" H-m-
and throiifffiout tne more active vears of . , Al - , .T
hia IifA ni war ldfintififld with thfl ntinr- 1 ft
. . mnnt ho an u dnn lunnrr on iintifini ftwt .
r, ...K ...uu. y. - ... M f motoring, the trip was made
Hampshire and for nearly 30 years m .... , ,
Barre. . '.
Mrs. Bond was born Mnrv Jane Brown "r,. "7 rTf ""Vl.V" "i " V ,
hiisb nd wa'srr "in V. .hua V II Pec wcre' with a fw Tna. from neg-
,o , ?f Nashua, a. i,pc- Uives from the camera of Mr. Holt him-
20. 1S42. He was a young man at the I
outbreak of the Civil war and naturally
self and were taken during some of his
a volunteer in one of the earlier nay 4-lw- . .., , 1 ...
. . . . ,. . . . ' I I lie first pictiue shown was taki
sraie 'regnncTiis, ne enusieu ... v.mii
pany C, 10th Massachusetts infantry
pictiu-e shown was taken on
the Fast Barre road, showing some aban-
.!..,) ivia.u
. , , , , , . , . .1 . I ih(uv-u uuaii ro m v.ri.uic jini, ...rill liji
T.tlT- 1 IflHI anH aorved tliroiirrh three I . . .
........ r, ,t r-n . 1 , . , , .I'll , K ha Tl ,1 V . 1 1
' ' , " quarries of Wetmorc & .Mow. E. I..
licipaill in it kciicibi eiii;Mxi:iin-iii!!, kiui 5 ... . ,.,.... .,.! ti,,,,t,..n - Xf :i
, , I.IIIILII llf II mill J .(! " .'I I. W
enicrgeu iiiiscntuen.
Cominff to Barre with his wife in 1880
or thereabouts, Mr. Bond was employed
successively as a superintendent of quar
rica bv Wctmore & Morse, Marr & Gor
don. Barclay Brothers, and J. K. Pine.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Bond have been active
in several circles in Barre. He is a mem
ber of R. B. Crandall post. No. 50, G. A.
Oranite lodge. Granite chapter. St.
Aldemar eommandery and Mount Sinai
emple. For the past 43 vears he has
been an Odd Fellow, being in affiliation
with White Mountain lodge, No. 5, in
Concord, N. H.
60 YEARS MARRIED.
Capt. and Mrs. Preston S. Chamberlin of greatest interest
many
Vnrnum, where the sight-seeing party
was given a good idea of the size of the
stones and the methods employed in get
ting them out. The conductor of the
party, like the "megaphone man" ho
claimed himself to be, had a list of sta
tistics in regard to the various firms who
operate the quarries, the figures being
taken from personal letters received by
him during the last few days.
After leaving the "hill" the party was
conducted to several of the manufactur
ing plants in the city and the processes
necessary for the changing of the rough
stone into the finished monument wero
sketched. Several of tlie machines were
shown in position for work, the big sawn
and lathes being among the ones of
. Bradford Honored.
y not desired bv many
because of the rockv condition of the
land.
FREED OF LARCENY CHARGE.
died in her home
sn two days resulting
blood clot on the brain. She was burn
at Flushing, N. Y., tK-t. 3. !(!. and "was
the llatighter of tlie Rev. William H. snd
lane N. tiilder. When 1 years old Miss
(Jihler began her editorial career as a
writer on the Newark. X. J, Morning Uador Strauss Was Arraigned in
Register. Mh wa later on the stall 01 Albana Court.
th- New York Tribune and on the I
editorial staff of Kr-ribner". Monthly ami Albans. Jan. l.-Idor Straus
the Centiirv. with her broth, r, the late! of New York was arraicnel I fore
Kwhard Watson t.il.br.
four years, Mr. Johonnott divided tlie i and B. W. Honker. Afterward the di
farm into five parts to dsitribute among I rectors re-elwte4 B. A. K-astman prei-
The farm was fairlv fertile ! dent
St.
P. B. Abbott vice-president and
C. M. Willey treasurer. It was stated
that a year of general progress wag indi
cated in the reortB of the oflicers. with
a gratifying increase in deposits.
BOYS WERE GUESTS.
Bradford, Jan. 18. Capt. and Mrs.
rreston S. Chamberlin yesterday ob
served the 00th anniversary of their
edding.
Capt. Chamberlin was born in .New-
bur', Nov. 28, 1832. He answered lres-
ident Lincoln's first call for troops, go-
g as sergeant in to. D, 1st ermont
'iriment, and re-enlisting at the end of
that service as captain, of Co. II, 12th
ermont. .He has tilled nianv town of
fices and represented Bradford in the
legislature in 1800. In 10O4 he wsw elect
ed a trustee of the Soldiers' home at
Bennington.
Mis. Hannah (nee Corliss) Chamberlin
was born in Bradford, Jan. 18, 1835.
Capt, and Mrs. Chamherlin have throe
daughters, Mr. .Annie (.'. Spalding, Mrs.
(George B. (.rant of Bennington, anj Mis
Edith Chamberlin, a librartan in Yer-
gennes.
Among the side glances were views of
Williamstown gulf and Caspian lake in
(Jreensboro, the somewhat popular idea,
thnt ministers are always long-faced and
solemn being discounted by a photo of
several Barre preachers 011 a joy ride.
Snow scenes furnishing a contrast to tlie
usual landscapes observed on an auto
trip served to make the members of tho
party appreciate more than ever, tho
value of this particular trip with the re
sult that all felt well repaid for the faro
rharged, the money taken at the start
being used, to quote the conductor of the
party, "to buy gasoline."
EUREKA RESTAURANT SOLD.
Purchaser Is Ted Theriault of Montpe
pelier. The Kurcka restaurant, long one of
the Ix-s-t known eating houses in the city,
has lieen sold bv Charles M. Ilnwea t
Capt. and Mr. Chamberlin received j Ted Theriault of .Montpelier. who took
At Bellowa Falls Chamber of Commerce
Banquet.
Bellows Falls. Jan. 18. M-we than
loO mn and vuuths attended the Jan-
fudge X. X. Pt ia city court Tester- j ,1Btv supper of the Hellow Pal' Chm
callers during the day. and telegrams
of congratulation began arriving early
in the morning from Canad and west
ern Cnited State. Many flowers and
other remembrance were sent by
friends.
Capt. anil Mrs. Chamberlin can recall
onlv two people now living who l
tenbd their wedding, one of these be
ing Mrs. Baldwin of Massachusetts and
a relative of Mr. Chamtx-rlio in the far
Wf-t.
KAISER GOES TO FRONT.
lay afternoon, charged with the larceny ! her of Commerce Ut night in the par'
of 27( from Andrew 1t. The re.ih house of th I onitregational churrli.it. c.;j ta Have Completely Recovered
ri , tii
, , I 1 V U. ...... .31
The Autro-Hur.parin government re- Saturday nig'.t. after be had triel un-fwa destroyed by Cre 1t tiicM: V
plied to Montenegro that peace negrdi-j siiccesfully t induce the woman, who ! ".(. The Mae starte-1 i" tl L it. hrn.
atMna were only piMe if ! M"nte-htd ten eprteit from I.im. t return j The hft- -eojrmo.late.l fiet and
negTia army unee.n l t!erl!r laid down ' hme. After the tbwotirj mt4;i fv4 w a quite well known at a summer re
its arm, the keaditarter statement to U.i rity. tort.
. . - . . . ,
I was pnreciiteit rv Mste Att.irner . ! harh mem tier nrniignt a hv . ve
Troy. X. Y Jan. !, The Adirondack I S. ual,ing snd tUe rer-on.lett w rep-;"f ce or pwarl and the s-kmg was
betel at North treek. Marren .nntT. rewnte1 hr vtarreu K. Austin. Mr. and 'eie lally lor ine ynnin.
IWlin. ia tendon. Jsn. 17. TUe f-d-
jksstmi01I ot the ousinckS yesterda.t.
Kor the past three years, or sim-c he te
turned to Brre from I'Uinliel.l. ulicio
he conducted the hotel for some
Mr. Hawes has In'en gitiug p;itr"ii if
the restaurant the erie to which they
were accustomed when lie owned tho
huiiie several years g..
Mr. Theriault annoiinns that he siit
continue the tminei along the sart4
line followed bv the retiring projvi-ty.
Meals will lie served i the Ameiirait
and Kuropean plans and tee ret.iuiiiS
will be on from fi a. in. iint.l miiln'Iit.
I 1 - - -
'.irdrr to iVvote more time t' t e A"'
(.!.. k. wm. h lie li . convert c 1 it-to
rooming hone.
The speaker w hrx. tl. F. IVlano f jlowmg official cmmiination was i--urj
Mr. Fred Sweeney of Federal street;
were aln arrestel in mt.ner1n with Vter lvp..t. A quartet fii.-n of . yeterday
th re. hit t'-ey d Srm Wit d.- Ijirl tlniniier. Frank M. Ijidd. fi'igene
HfgH after I've feerirg. the eien.- I-, pari and A I vis Parker sana. ItoU-ft
Vtirg uu"!et t hll tkeaa. PrI-h rat4 f urn V.
S.i!' r. Kc th avenue. M ..t rce f I
bv evr-re. U-ge jp'went . t ..;,.-'
"AttT romf.Iete reivery. l n-perr ' m:u n l e. ilir'ns tu inl it
William r.'ini.l Sun !y altermx-ti to -'annary !. To I h! I at J" tr r i
the wr ll.cat.w.' WIdv a.tu! value. -
