A
fra 1 flf? ft
CIRCULATION IS .
OVER 4000 DAILY
.4
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
M
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
UN TKALN8 A.U .NKWS
STANDS TM'F KVTS
0 . 1 i m
ill ! ill fl I 1) o r IT!
DAMAGE FROM STORMS.
IfILL . JN INTOIILLIQIIS
Orange Belt a Gi Brown Lake Dotted With Floating
Houses-Dry Cn Now Raging Torrents Three Miles
Wide-Hundreds of Derricks In Oil Fields Blown Down
by Tornado Los Angeles Isolated, Wires Down and
Railroad Traffic At a Standstill
Los Angeles, Cal., Jan. 18. With three dead, damage
amounting to possibly a million dollars reported, and rail
roads crippled, Los Angeles was practically isolated today
as the result of one of the worst storms in its history.
Since Saturday night, the rain has been pouring with
out intermission. At times the precipitation assumed al
most the proportions of a cloudburst. Dry creek beds are
brawling rivers, and streams that are ordinarily mere
brooks are running two and three miles wide, sweeping
away ranch houses and livestock to destruction.
The dead in the storm so far are Fred Smith, a Loma
Linda rancher, drowned trying to cross the Santa Ana
. river. Alfonso Rivere, drowned attempting to ford the
Ventura river. Carl Throkmorton, Los Angeles, killed in
his bathroom by an electric light short circuit due to the
dampness.
Scores have been rescued from the floods by posses of
deputy sheriffs and volunteer bands of citizens. Many
of the highways are impassable, telephone and telegraph
service is demoralized, and fears are felt for the electric
light systems.
In the country around Los Angeles scores are home
less. Near Redlands, a small tributary of the Santa Ana
river flooded many homes. Sixty were rescued on rafts
and in small boats. Twelve houses were flooded in East
Highlands, where the flood ran five to six feet deep.
As the streams approached the ocean they grew worse.
At Bell Station, a few miles west of Los Angeles, the Los
Angeles river was three miles wide, sweeping everything
before it, covering valuable ranch lands with silt and
tlebris.
The citrus district around Pomona reported heavy
damage, due largely to soil erosion and winds. The dam
age in the Pomona district is estimated at $500,000.
Il'oiirten families wero snatched from
dentil by the Sim Dornnrdino police.
Joiiu IYnwny nnj his family are still
mnrooucd on mi island near there, and
I forts to reneh them have filed.
. In the Little Knssin district of Los
Angeles many wore forced to abandon
I heir liouies" by the steadily rising
V'liter. Several houses were standing
1 1 to the eaves in muddy lakes.
Two hundred passengers of eastern
trains were foiced t.) stop at Foinonn
List night, with muni! hope of getting
cither way. Twenty five tourists were
Marooned lit Camp I'nldy while the
rain dune down at tec rate of an inch
i n hour, sending .1 huge torrent roar
ing down the cannon.
Stretches of the new stnte highway
iii the Pomona district have been rip
led away. n nouie places, the gups
mo four hundred to live hundred feet
long.
The northern section of Long Bene'i
v us re orted flooded early today, with
pcilico rescuing families in skiffs.
Jour persons wero taken from the
flooded Golden Stnte Woolen Mills dur
ing the night, but thirty others were
forced to take their elinnc09 nnd re
unin there, ns tho police boats were
culled away for more urgent rescue
work elsewhere.
A Great Brown Lake.
North of Anaheim road tho land
n ape resembled n huge brown lake,
fl died with the roofs of dwelling hous-
en. Dead chickens nnd other small nn-
ill. fflortln
t nu iitui Liu
ftomehow homely women never siwra
t' to at home. TclleM who look like
Bryant tinlnt ittrnctin' th' attention.
fcUojr wux.
3P!
imnls flonted here nnd there. Many of
I the homos still contained hungry men,
women and children, waiting for res
cuers. In Anaheim itself due to the
' breaking of a dyke, the water was a
foot deep in many business sctreets.
tine of tho I'ncilic. Electric 's tow re
maining lines to Long lie.xeh was
threatened this morning when the Los
iCorritros trestle showed signs of weak
I ening. A .'10,OUO bridge over the San
tn Ana river oollopsed last night, nnd
the Tippeconoe nvenuo bridge a( Hed-
iiuhIh is a total loss.
The loss to livestock will bo heavy
Ou one ranch near Play a Del Key, 100
head of cattlo drowned, their bodies
Hunting on the Hood entnngled with
trees, bits of houses, furniture, etc.
Chicken ranches wero wiped out. Many
muses ami cows nave neon seen strug
gling in the Santa Ana river.
10,000 Tons of Salt Gone.
Xenr Yucaipa suddenly rising waters
caught the stage ami tumbled it into
the middle of n field. Passengers es
caped, but all luggage wajt lost. The
Long Ueach Salt Works reported 10,
000 tons to salt being washed nwnv.
Tiip system of good roads In southern
Culifurnin, built at n Cost of many mil
lions, Is practically out of commission.
Weeks will bo required to repair the
dninnge. It is impossible to gut nnv
of the cities near hero by highway, lii
some sections lakes cover the roads to
a depth of many feet. .Bridges havo
gone, leflving huge gaps in the bc-ulu-
I vanls. Every town mid city around
here is isolated and left to itself, with
even wire communication difficult.
I Both nuto rouls to Kan Diego, one
just opened on Thanksgiving Dav, arc
Streets tupped Up By Flood,
Caving bnnks along Hunker Hill av
enue, threatened several residences. As
their foundation collapsed, the houses
tottered on the brink of a eliff, and in
mates moved out.
llutfall sewers in many sections,
choked with debris ami water, burst,
ripping gap around tho manholes.
Forces of men today closely watched
the new protective work along the Lo
Angeles river and the arroyo in the
city limits, whom the damge 'was great
in the floods two years ago. Flying i
squadrons with sandbags wero rushod1
In threatened dlstricU to throw up!
"fortifications" against tho pounding
tide.
Wllshire boulevard, one of the city 'a
most exclusive resldonce streets was
rlped and torn by a great washout at
Nirinandie avenue. Kb a Fernando
boulevard is under three feet of water.
Several bridge over the Log Angeles
river have ben clewed.
Wreck In Oilfield
lUkersfield, Cal., Jan. IS. Hundreds
of derrick and frnme building were
in ruin in (be Pan Joaquin oil fields
today a the result of a tornado which
(Continued on ur Tares.)
BERGEN, NORWAY, BURNED
Bergen, Norway, Jan. 18.
After raging for several days,
fire sweeping tho city was ex-
tinguislied todnv. The loss U
estimated at $30,000,000 and
3000 persons nro homeless. Ful-
ly 4U0 buildings wero swept
awiiy.
Christianin nnd other cities
ore sending relief. ,
E
LIPPITT A HARD DIG
"Being Above Military Age
Makes Some Senators
Rampant for War"
Washington, Jan. 18. In n final ef
fort to get quick action in tho Mexican
situation, a resolution was offered in
the senate today, proposing immediate
intervention, Senator Lippitt of Rhode
Island was tho author, but Senators op
posed to tho administration course of
"watchful waiting" backed his effort,
and an acrimonious debate ensued.
Senator Borah had already attacked
tho idea of further delay in objecting
to referring to the foreign committee
tho resolution of Senator Lewis pro
posing to empower tho president to use
nrmed forco.
"What tho Amorlcnns in Mexico need
is aid now," ho said. "As far as aid
ing them is concerned, tho resolution
might ns well bo killed as sent into
committee."
Lippitt demanded Immediate consid
eration of his resolution, but Chairman
Stone of the foreign committee ihsistod
that it be referred to the committee.
"I gee reports that this nation will
not net," retorted lippitt,, "until tho
other I'un-Americon countries assent.
Can Senator Stone inform us how long
it will tuko tho government to get per
mission to protect "the lives of Us
citizens?"
To thU-stono answered:
"The question is inconsequential and
so far beneath ft senator 'a dignity that
I decline to answer.'.
This seemed to rouso Lippitt.
"This situation," he continued, "re
sulted from President Wilson's Indian
npolis utterance: 'It is all right fqt the
Mexicans to spill all the blood they
wish.'
"With that brutal and pusillanimous
course, I hnve no sympnthy. There are
different kinds of blood, and one of
them is Anierlcun. If I had boon presi
dent, n day would not havo passed be
fore the army would have been in pur
suit of theso Santa Ysnbel murderers,"
"Thero are two or three senators on
the republican side," answored'Stone
sharply, "who nro nthirst for war with
Mexico. But a declaration of war
would break their hearts; it would
leave them nothing to talk about. They
are past military ngo themselves, but
their capacity for volublo declamation
is unimpaired."
Army Officers Backed by
Wealthy Men Plan to
Overthrow Government
Rio Janeiro, Jan. IS. Timely discov
ery of a plot to overthrow the govern
ment led today to frustrating It and
to the arrest of more than 00 petty
army officers.
Authorities announced that the re
volution had been well planned, but
had been nipped in tho bud by secret
service men. Tho army men concerned
therein planned to scizo the arsenul and
forts guarding the bay and other strate
gical n ud other points and then force
the retirement of President Braz,
The leaders wero arrested on tho very
dny on which they expected to atart
their revolution. Mounted patrols nnd
nrmed marine broko up two meetings
of soldiers and took into custody all the
revolutionists. They were thrown in
to prison on nn island In ltio Dejnnlcro
bay, some of them confessed that
wealthy men hud financed their mach
inations. Ostensibly it waa a " ser
ges nts' rebellion" over the govern
ments failure to raise their pay.
OAS CAUSED EXPLOSION
Washington, Jan. 18. The fatal ex
plosion Saturday aboard the aubini
rino K 2 at the Brooklyn navy yard
was duo to a combination of hydrogen
gas from the new storage batteries
with air, ranking a highly explosive'
mixture, the navy board of Investiga
tion reported to the navy department
this afternoon.
When easterners are shown these
natural color Mrture. of the 'olnmlilu
highway it should bo explained that,
fine a they are, they are not the real
thing.
CENTRAL
POWERS
ABOUT READY TO
Meeting of Greek Parliament
Monday May Be Deciding
Event
TROOPS FROM GALLIPOLI
ARE RUSHED TO GREECE
Bulgarians Fall Out With
Austrtans and Withdraw
from Albania
London, J.in. 18. The attempt of
the central powers to storm Salonika is
believed to bo near,
Meanwhile, allied forces aro prepar
ing hastily for the drive. Largo bodies
of their men,, presumably from the
abandoned GullipJli peninsula, are
lanuing in tne uuu or Urrani, SO miles
northeast of Salonika to protect the
AngloJFrench right wing. That Gen
eral Sarrail expects a strenuous Bulgnr
smash in that region is indicated by
me met tnat ne caused tho railway
bridgo nt Deralriiisar. 20 miles north
of Orfani, to be blown up.
The Berlin report that the allies are
landing at Piraeus, five milos from
Atnens, and also at Phaloron was with
out confirmation. Officials, however,
nciicuieu tne Merlin story that the
Greek government is about to move to
Larissa, 80 miles southwest of Salon
ika, because of fear that tho allies are
threatening Grecian neutrality. It was
I pointed out that if; this report were
I true, Greeeo would not bo soeking La
rissa, a piaco uo more impregnablo
than Athens, the present capital.
Diplomatic circle rumored that im
portant development yre impending in
Greece. Inasmuch a tho Crock parlia
ment meets'Monday, it may reopen tho
Orcek-ally dispute, and therein lios
possibly vast consequences,
Bulgarians Withdraw.
ondnn, Jan. IS. Bulgarians are
withdrawin om Albania because of
dissensions with the Austro-aermnns,
according to a Home wireless message
today.
"Athens advices stnte that Bulgnr
i and Turkey arc inclined to conclude
pesco with the allies," the message
said.
Tho story was unconfirmed from any
courso and was received reservedly. Ac
cording to recent advices, tho Uiilgars
were pressing the Serbs hard west of
Elbassun, Albania. It they have been
withdrawn is believed that it was
bocause thoy were needed for the pro
posed Salonika onslaught, or because
their presence In Albania might mean
that Italy would begin a Btrong cam
paigne in tho Balkans.
Greece Gots Ultimatum.
Beilin, by wireless to Suyville, Jan.
IS. Kngland and France have present
ed a virtual ultimatum to Greece, ac
cording to a Sofia dispatch tod.iv. The
note aeninmliM tnat Urceco give pass-:
pnv's to tho diplomats of the central I
powers witmn two days.
If Greoco does not accept the de
mand, the allies will tako tho "nee-1
evsary measures" to enfurce it, tho Ha-'
fia inesage slid, This story coupled
with reports that tho British hud land
ed nonr Athens, left Berlin with no
doubt that the allies havo decided up
on extreme frcssttro to forco Greece
to abandon her neutrality.
Torma rf Surrender.
Berlin, by wireless to Sayville, Jan.
IS. Terms of the Montenegrin sur
render to Austria wero related in Vi
enna dispatches today ns follows:
Tho soldiers must luy down their
arms; citiwns must como forward in
groups ami also surrender their arms;
Austrian Authorities will im..Ii rnn.
tcnevro to prevent formation of giioril-'
la onnus; an males must congregate in
certain districts designated by Austria;
Austria will take over control of cities
and transportation.
REACHES THE WRECK.
Seattle, Wash., Jan. 18. After fight
ing adverse seas for three days tho
Canadian salvage steamer Salvor is re
ported today to have reached the
wrecked aleamer Kenkon Maru No. 3,
ashore on IMIo Chain" reef, off Mnyne
Island. The Japanese crew of tho Ken
kon Is camped on shore near tho scene
of the wreck.
THE WEATIIER J
Oregon: Tonight
and Wednesday
generally fair,
not much change
i n tempera-turo;
easterly winds.
1
SALONIKA
lD MK To
iTAV AAV HEi
"WAR NEWS OF ONE
TEAR AGO TODAY
Zeppelins raided Sandringham
just after the king and queen
had left. Zeppelin raids in five
other English towns killed five
persons. Snow storms on all front
hindered artillery operations.
Russia claimed an effective of-
fensivo in North and South I'o-
land.
SAY WIN PAID THEM
TO KILLIR HUSBAND
Negroes Who Confess Murder
Say Mrs. Mohr Was Mad
at Girl's Escape
Trovidence, R. I., Jan. 13. ''The
public has no idea of what I have en
dured. Most women in my placo would
havo killed Ir. Mohr long ago."
The widow of Dr. C. Franklin Mohr,
slain last summer as he rode with a
pretty girl, heard these words today in
her trial for murder,-attributed to her
by Constable James Wallace. As he
uttered them, Mrs. Mohr covered her
faco with her gloved hands, and her
body trembled. Eight other witnesses
bad preceded the constnblo to toll of
the whereabouts of Cecil V. Brown, tho
negro accused with Mrs. Mohr as the
slayer of the doctor.
Wallace corroborated tho statement
of Chief O'Neill that Brown and hig
negro companions had confessed killing
the physician.
"Even in her presence, Brown in
sisted that Mrs. Mohr hired him and
Henry Spcllman to kilt Mohr." said1
Wallace "Spcllman snid that Mrs. i
Mohr often gave him and Brown money, j
and gave him hell when thoy did noti
Kill Miss Emily Burger (the doctor a
companion.)
Secretary of War Garrison
Intimates This In Speech
at Bankers' Banquet
Now York, Jan. IS. That the admin
istrations fear of defeat for its military
prepnrednoss program is very real nnd
earnest was the view lending Now York
bankers held today after hearing Secro
tury of Wur Garrison 'a insistent speech
in advoency of tho government plans
last night.
Ho told his listeners frankly that the
opposition to preparedness 1b organized
and powerful, nnd suggested thnl unless
preparedness advocates stand shoulder
to shoulder in united action, tho present
system of defense or as ho termed it,
luck of defense will persist.
I'repuredness devotees, ho snid, are
bickering among themselves over de
tails. Ho termed tho continental army
plan tho only the only feasible one, nnd
branded tho militia system ns inadn
(liiiito for tho needs of tho nation. He
declared authority vested in the feder
al government is essential.
CANAL OPEN FEBRUARY 20.
New York, Jan. IS. Colonel E. P.
Glenn, arriving today from the ranainn
canal, said it will reopen February BO,
and that nlredy there is a 20 foot chan
nel through.
Theno nro fine made to order evenings
for the letter writers.
W. Alfc JONXS OUSTED
A. H, Lea, of 1'ortland, was
ije alec tod secretary of tho Oregon
$ State Fair Hoard tiiis after-
$ noon over W. Al. Jones, the
ije present incumbent by a voto of if
fl to 2, nnd J. If. Booth, of
i(i Koseburg, president of tho
He board, resigned following tho $
election, otherwise, the eesslon
was quiet and peaceable. This
la the outcome of tho wrap that if
has been brewing for some if
if time to oust Jones and to place
in office a friend of Governor
Withyeombo's.
W. II. Savage, of Corvnllls,
and M. L. Jonoa, of Brooks,
41 were both favorablo to Let
ije from the first and West and
Booth lined up with W. Al
if Jones, whilo Mrs, Kdith Toiler
West her red was undecided. To-
day 'a vote shows that sho fell .
In line with the Lea side nnd
this settled the question for W. ije
Al. Jones. West and Booth
both handed in their resigns- if
tion to the governor as a pro-
if tost against the action of the '
board in ousting ' Secretary if
1 Jones, .
VILLA'S BUTCHER SHOT
CARRANZA S GOOD WORK
Colonel Manuel Baca Valles Executed by Side of Train Loaf
of American Refugees Instead of Facing Firing Sqaad
Is Shot by Soldier Whose Brother He KiHed Villa h
Hiding But Deserter Says He Has Ordered His Followers
to Kill All Americans.
El Paso, Texas, Jan. 18. Blood letting continues in
Mexico.
Colonel Manuel Baca Valles, Villa's "butcher," was
publicly executed in Juarez at five a. m. today, within a
few feet of several Pullmans in which American women
and children refugees were sleeping. Authorities placed
his body on view at the custom house, alongside that of
the bandit chieftain, Rounguez, as a bloody warning to
their cohorts.
The execution followed fast upon unconfirmed rumors
that two more Americans, Albert B. - Simmons, of Leos
Angeles, and Victor Hamilton, of Chicago, had been
sacrificed to the blood-lust of the Villa outlaws.
Valles was brought under heavy guard f rom Casas
Grandes in the day coach of the train near which he died.
Awakened just before five o'clock, he was dragged to a
spot nearby, and shot.
The man, who had been responsible for many execu
tions as Villa's chief headsman, met his fate calmly, and
without a word.
Twenty Carranza soldiers under Captain Regenio
escorted him to a clump of cottonwood trees beside an
irrigation ditch. Then his arms were, tied with a blue
necktie that a soldier supplied.
Instead of having an entire firing squad execute him,
Captain Regenio selected as executioner a soldier whose
brother Valles had killed. This soldier, without an order
from his captain, approached the bound man, placed the
muzzle of his rifle at the doomed man's heart and fired
As Valles sank in a crumpled heap, several soldiers
fired a volley into the air, shouting, "Viva Carranza" and
"death to the Villa bandits." '
American newspapermen and a few
Mexicnns witnessed the death. Fow,
if any, of tho sleepers in the l'ullmans
wero'awaro of the tragedy being en
acted near them.
Tho body with its small streak of
bloodstain and tho powder burns above
tho heart was then placed beside the
naked body of Hodnguen at the cus
toms house, whero many Amoricans nnd
Mexicans viewed them.
Two special trains arrived hero to
day benring several hundred Ameri
cans and other foreigners from thj
I'arral district and western Chihuahua.
A Villa deserter said that Villa re
iterated nt Kubio his threats against
Americans four days ago, and urged
his followers to sluy ruthlessly any
"gringoes" they might encounter. Ho
declared that tho rebel chief is hiding
in tho mountains of Durungo stato.
Other "Murders Reported.
Washington, Jan. 18. Mexican de
velopments today added fresh confu
sion to tho question of General Car-
SHEPHERD'S GRAPHIC ,
STORY OF THE BRITISH
RETREA T TO SALONIKA
Xote In the first installment of his
uncensored story of tho allied retreat
from Serbia, Shepherd told of the ar
rival of Serbian refugees In Salonika
and of permission being granted by
(lencriil Sarrail, nllied commander In
chier, for a party ot correspondents tt
visit tho Anglo-French front. Follow
Ing is tho second story of tho scries.
Editor.
By William O. Shepherd.
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
Salonika, Dec. 11 Two huge baskets
filled with wicker-covered bottles of
hlantl wine, from among which peep
ed tho white necks of champagne bot
tles, mado hp our supply of traveling
provisions wtion our party of corres
pondents set out for tlie Anglo-French
front in Serbia. True, Indeed, thoro
was small package for each man
boiled eggs, cold beef with tiny paper
acketo of salt and pepper but there
were- so small we wero able to carry
.hem in our pockets.
This was an Italian aehemo of pro
visions. We had left to two Itulian
loumnlist n?wppcrmnn in Italy
ii adwoy a journalist the. task, of
mrchasing our food supply. We did
tot know, as we milled out of the sta
ioa on a rattly military train, that we
rnre going forward to witness the be
inning of an ally retreat. Before us
was Krivolak, where the French ' had
fought so long and so hard with their
' seventy-five '' -and Genoral Baa-rail
rania's responsibility In the massacre
of Americuns last week at SunU Ysa
bol. Unconfirmed reports that Victor
Hamilton of Chicago and Albert- B.
Simmons, of Los Angeles, has been
murdered by Villista bandits under tho
Arricta Brothors, 60 miles west of Tor
roon, also gavo the administration new
concern. The state department in en
deavoring to ascertain the truth of this
rumor. Meanwhile Consul Edwarda at
Juares and the department are at odd
as to whether tho department asked
him to gain a safe conduct from the
Cnrrnnxa government for the inunlet
ed Giisi mining party.
Tho department insists it did not aslt
him to do so. Kdwurds said that "in
pursuance of instructions" he and
triod to get a safe conduct for them
from tho Cnrranaistiis. If It is proved
that Cnrrnnza promised protection for
the party, repnrntion for the lives lost
will bo demanded.
Intervention ngitntion in eongres
sinn circles meantime was held in
chock.
had told na that we should soo Krivo
lak and the fighting there.
I ri . r.. ... ... .i... n ;;., v. ..nnt -.!...
up of veterans who hail gone through
tho hell fire of the Dardanelles, I!e
foro ua wore all the thrilling thing to
soo tout the war affords.
- - No Longer Secret
We got out of the train at a little
railroad station on the shore of Lnhs
Dntran and found ourselves in t&
midst of British ttoops. I've need tb
name of the lake, though before na
started out, we were told that we must
not mention tho names of places) in
our stories. But nine days have changed
all that. The Bulgarians have al) tuesa
places now. Its no secret.
An English captain met us.
"Havo you automobiles fur Mies
correspondents?" asked : our Fieuch.
lieutenant guide. ...
"Not a one," said the British offi
cer, "unless they want to ride oa tbU
load of hay."
. He pointed to a big automobile tnick
half loaded with bales of.HngHsh ky.
' Into tho truck' wo piled witii balf a.
dozen English Tommies giving us lift.
Just as wo started off, they cried, imi
tating a London, bus conductor! :
"Mnrbio Arch, Holburn Cheat,
Hank, Elephant and Castle.!'
It-wait a cockney's way of saying:
"Houston tract only." -or 1 f Wwrtf ass
Express.'! .... .,.' "...fl
iuauuci oa tgt tit.) ' t
