69TH AND 22D NOW AT CAMP WHITMAN
Showers lo-nluhtj Thursday probably fair.
COTOV
EDITION
51
"Circulation Books Open to AIL"
"Circulation Hooka Open to All,
PRICE ONE CENT.
Copjrlflit, mill, br The Press PnMlsklag
Co. (The New York World).
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 21, 1916.
16 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
WMAL
Mill VI ft.
MMAL
PERSHING DEFIANTLY MOVES TROOPS;
VILLA MEN FLOCK TO CARRANZA GAMPS
ORDERTO 71 ST.1
CANCELLED BECAUSE OF LACK
Of WATER ATCAN1P WHITMAN
Sixty-ninth Is Reviewed From Steps
of St. Patrick's
Lavelle and Many Priests Great
Crowds Cheer the Twenty-second
Amid scenes of enthusiasm which have not been duplicated here since j
the Epanlfh-Amerlcan War the men of the Sixty-ninth Infantry and thoj
Twenty-second Engineers of New York National Guard left their armories
this morning and marched to trains which took them to Camp Whitman at
Beekman, N. V. Doth regiments wore In camp at 3 o'clock this afternoon.
Owing to a lack of sufficient plpea anj tanks to distribute the ample
water supply at the camp, orders were Issued unexpectedly to-day by Lieut.
Col. Henry S. Stcrnberger, Quartermaster General, cancelling the departure
to-morrow morning of the Heventy-flrst Regiment from Manhattan and of
the Forty-seventh and Fourteenth Heglmcnta from Drooklyn, which were to
have entrained Friday morning.
Mnjor den. O'flyan nt I'eeksklll, who Rdvleed the cancellation, said that
water facilities would bo provided by the end of the week, and It Is expected
that the delayed troops will be In 'amp by Sunday.
Roll call found unhounded enthus
Usm In every armory In tho Greater
City, duo to tho prospect of soon see
ing actlvo service on tho frontier
Into every rcsrlment hnd been carried
the news that Gen. Funston had wired
Washington for Nntlonal Guardsmen
on the boundary line as soon as pos
sible. Among tho guardsmen under arras
to-day are 1,000 recruits who havo en
listed slneo Hundny. Tho Imjmlso to
get Into active survlca Is so strong
that commanding officers of regi
ments that may bo left behind are
urging Gov. Whitman by wlro: "Wo
aro ready to go, and want to go."
The Now York Chapter of tho Amer
ican lied Cross will send four baso
hospitals to the border at onco In caao
of American Intervention In Mexico.
Kach will havo fifty physicians and
tho required complement of nurses
and orderlies.
69Tii is iti;viHvi:i
BY CLEltGYMES O.X
ST. PATRICK'S STEPS.
Crowds that overran tho curbs from
Twenty-sixth Street to Fifty-seventh
nd seemingly filled every window,
doorway and roof on tho lino of
march up Fifth Avenue gave tho boys
of the "Fighting Sixty-ninth" Itegl
ment a genuine war-tlmo send-off ao
they started this morning for tho Na
tional Guard mobilization camp at
Beekman, N. Y.
Memories stirred by the strains of
"The Girl I Left Behind Me" brought
cheers to the throats and tears to tho
eyes of the older ones In tho crowd,
while the younger ones, thrilling at
the same inspiriting air and the brave
dlsrlay made by the sturdy Irlshmon
whose tradition Is that they "never loit
a flag." yelled like mnd, waved flags,
handkerchiefs, hats or anything
handy, and bade tho boys Goit hpeed
on their way to tho Mexican border or
beyond.
When the twiya first stepped out of
the armory at Twenty-sixth Strent
and Lexington Avenue at 9 o'clock
they were greeted by .1 blast of chof-ri
from the 6,000 well wishers gattured
there. That was only tho boBlnnlng
nf an ovation which kept their eheoks
glowing and their eyes snapping till
tho way up Fifth Avenue nnd over
nfi ! ifi -te entli Strt-dt to HleVHlth
Acn.i uliffM t!si' en, rained In lh
New ..1 k 1 mr.U v 11 ils ,11 0 1, VI !
I if ll Aw 111:0 -Icn,'ii si., a rro'.v.l
llite that no earl, In t!iu tu nning, but
thin was one ut Uiu.su occasion.! which
(Continued on Second I'age,)
OecfnmptlvM caq Irani anrotthlrg JMrreAttas h
tUlax M AnU-TuWrculutu Scclfij. sin w i :;.t b
Znr. Y.-Air.
4TH AND 47TH
Cathedral by Mgr.!
BROADWAY SEES
SPECTACULAR FIRE
Restaurant Damaged Si 5,000
by Early Morning Blaze
and Flood of Water.
All Broadway that was still up
hustled to Forty-ninth Street at 2.30
o'clock this morning and watched a
flro of unknown origin do $15,000
damage to Churchill's restaurant,
destroying tho owner's vaiuahlu col
lection of litack-and-whlto art studios
una turning tho main dining room
into a swimming pool.
According to Capt. James Churchill,
the place had been closed promptly
at 2 o'clock nnd only tho help wore
on tho premises when the flro was
discovered. It was the first night In
four years, Capt Churchill says, that
ho hadn't done the locking up In per
son. The blaze started In a storago room
On the third floor, and was almost
through the roof beforo It was dis
covered by a woman at work In the
linen department. She notified James
Cassidy, tho chief engineer, who was
still downstairs.
Cassidy aent Uau Cameron, head
waiter, to turn In the alarm, and or
ganized an emergency flro brlgado of
waiters nnd other help. They got two
lines of boss out, but klnkud both or
them, and nothing was done to check
tha flro until the arrival of four en
glno companies under Deputy Chlof
.Ion Martin.
Smoko was pouring through the
roof and from all the upper wlndowi,
und n big crowd hngan to gather in
the ktrouts. Tha smoke was so dense,
coming from tho upholstered furnl
ture. tho llremen could not see to
work on tho roof, so Martin orderod
the big electric sign turned on In
front uf the Hotel Markwoll, an eight
story building noxt door, and by this
lllunilniitinii the lltemen wont io
work
WIU'iii Sn- II)' llii In 1 1, i:ir"M'il
lit. Iimin mi I'rnrr,
K V MiiViTiV .Mine .'1 KiIh.ii-
ihK tint in- hail fully rxpri'HKed Ins
vim f cm pi-arp t Hi rerent fonvnn
linn ir the li'uguc t enfoii-e peine.
President U'llfon to-duy dn-llned (,n
Invitation to addrosi tlm Ilaltlmnrn
branch "f th peucn organization next
Tuesday night. Ho fald ho beltevrd
It was not wine for him to add to his
previous statements on the subject.
SWEEP CHURCHILL'S
hundreds in pkil
as m m. am
Explosion in New Subway
Shatters Paving at Thirty
Fourth Street -3 Hurt.
;gas SWEEPS STREETS.
Smokers Barred Out of Zone
as 250 Are Rescued
From Tunnel.
An explosion of compressed air
forty feet underground ripped two
big holes In Sixth Avenue Just above
Thirty-fourth Street at 9.30 A. M.
to-day, and Injurod three men. One
woman and four men were knocked
down, All Sixth Avenue traffic
was Immediately stopped by
Deputy Fire Chief Jos Martin be
tween Thirty-fifth and Thirty-third
Streets. So much gas was escaping
from nn eight-inch main In the sub
way tubo that he feared another and
heavier explosion.
Snokcrs were not allowed within
four blocks of tho scene. For hours
Thirty-fourth Street, Broadway and
Sixth Avenue near Herald Square,
were Jammed with people who tried
to get closo to the holos in tho ground
and fought tho police reserves In
their efforts to see.
Two hundrel and fifty men were at
work In tho tunnel which Is being dug
for the new Broadway subway by tho
t'nltcd States I'.oalty nnd Improve
ment Company, the same company do
ing the work where tho cavo-lns hap.
poned last fall at Seventh Avenue and
Twenty-fifth Street nnd at Broadway
and Thirty-eighth Street. In the trl
anglo between Broadway and Sixth
Avenue, Just north of Thlrty-fourth
Street, tho oompany has a compressed
air plant forty feet under ground.
An air main of quarter-Inch soft
steel nnd six lnchos diameter blew
up under tho strain, acoordlng to As
sistant 'Knglneer T. C. Desmond of
tho contracting company. The gash
In tho plpn was ten foot long, nnd tho
air wont out with a roar that could
bn heard blocks away. The big.
gent hole was blown In the planking
about fifty feet north of Thirty,
fourth Street in Sixth Avenue. The
heavy planks blew Into matohwood
up against tho elevated structure,
thirty feet above the utreot,
A Sixth Avenuo car, bound north,
bad halted Just clear of the break.
(Continued on Second Page.)
GREGORY LEADS AS
SUCCESSOR TO HUGHES
Attorney General Most Prominently
Mentioned for Seat In U. S.
Supreme Court.
WASHINGTON. June 21. An As
sociate Justice of the Supreme Court
to Hiicceod Charles K. Hughes prob
ahly will bo appoJnted by President
Wilson In n fow days. Scoroii of men
have been considered and Indorse
ments still aro pouring In.
Thoso most prominently mentioned
are Attorney General Qrenory, Son
ator Walsh of Montana and former
SeoreUary Garrison.
John W. Davis, Solicitor Gone nil, Is
understood to he under consideration
as Mr. Gregory's successor In the
C'.ihlne' if the latter goes on tho
bench
llrlllxh Tnlx- nit-rlriin Mnlla from
Nunc,. kI.'iii l.lni-r.
III. KLIN ma turtles! to riayvllle,
I. I i, June il. -Ttm Danish I'ostmu-
I.. Il..n.(.f.1 llul.. tltu, llpl.lul. I
UP SIXTH AVENUE
. ........ ......in ton, .,,,,, dUbllUri
tits at Klrkv.all took off Amrlcn mull
.li-Mlned for Denmark from the .Vorwe
glan liner Ivrlnlanlsfjord. Oipenhagcn
dcspitches ri port.
(For Ridno Results 8 Page Two.)
)
OSBORNE POINTED
OUT AGAIN AS THE
WOOING "OLIVER"
Rose Tanzer, Another Sister of
Rae, Says Lawyer Told of
Wedding Plans.
HYSTERIA HALTS TRIAL.
Perjury Defendant Has Sudden
Fainting Spell and Court
Is Adjourned.
Another positive Identification of
James W. Osborne as the wooer of
Rae Tanzer was made to-day by Rose
Tanzer, eldest sister of Kae, at the hit
ter's trial for perjury before United
States District Judge Wolrerton. With
a certainty equal to that of her sister
Dora, who testified yesterday, Rose de
clared:
"Honestly and truthfully the man
who called on my sister Rm was
James Osborne. I cannot be mis
taken."
At this moment Mr. Osborne and his
son entered the courtroom. The wit
ness's description of the wooing of Kae
caused Mr. Osborne to pause.
"If you want to know why I'm sure
It was James Osborne," the witness
said to Benamtjn Slade, counsel for
Itae, "I'll tell you. One of the first
times ho called he told me he wan
getting a rlnc for nae and was going
to marry her. He asked me not to
say anything to llao, as he wanted a
big surprise for her. He said ho was
going to take Itae to California after
the marring." '
On cross-examination Hose admitted
some things she had (citified to be
foro Commissioner Houghton were un
true, but as to all things concerning
James W. Osborne she told the truth,
she said.
Whon Mis Tanzer was quesUoned
by Juror No. 2 as to why she was un
able to recall exact dates In the notori
ous tonglo sho collapsed.
In broken English the witness cried
out that sho had told no lies.
"Kver since this trouble started."
she shrieked, "I have been perse
cuted and hounded nnd I have alwayn
told the truth. Why do they treat m"
this wayT I am Innocent, sure 1 am
so is my poor little sister."
Rose wept aloud again when Juror
No. 1 asked her If she could read tli'
newspapers.
"No." she cried, "1 am sorry I can
not. We girls are all orphans. We
have had a hard time getting along.
Why should I come Into this oase and
lleT I swear It was tho man James
Osborne who called on my slstor
The trial came to u sudden halt
shortly after 11.30 o'clock, when Itae
Tamer developed a sudden attack of
hysteria. '
Judge wolverton ordered a rcw
until 2 o'clock and txnt for Dr. J. It
I Compto, wtio declared It was a
case of hysterical rpllupsy, u usual
aliment with South Kuropean women
when depressed.
me tainting spell occurred during
the testimony of Mrs. Kthel Curtis,
who was heralded by Mr. Slado as a
newly dlaoovered important witness
who would absolutely connect Jnmes
Osborne with Rao Tanzer. The sensa
tion fell short of promises.
Mrs. Curtis formerly was a tele
graph operator In the Imperial Hotel,
where Mr. Osborne had headquarter1
during his fight for District Attornoy
$3,000,000 FOR AEROPLANES.
ntur Increases Amount provldm!
In Ihe Army Bill.
WASHINGTON. June 21 Th Hou
this afternoon voted to tncreaie the
appropriation for army arwplane from
11.222.100 to 13,000,000 The vot w
SI to 77.
The dinner wus hh ninmdmmii of
fered by ltepru'iitatlvo Mann t. tlm
Auay Appropriation Hill, carrying a
total of 167. 000,000, or 186,000,000 moro
than laat yiiar.
. , i, iiiwvifltiia mo mil UTia
voiced by lleprrnunUtlve Gardner nf
...we... itw( .w, ,.., iin.,.!-!) umi inn
appropriation for National Guard artil
lery woi unUrsly Inadequate-
Col. Lucas and His Young Son
At Camp of the 22d Engineers
4 . ' ."-7 ,- H,
OOL-- H, w S !(-'.& -S. OK-
S.A.J.
SI
Big Verdict Granted in London
Without Contest by Banker
Husband.
LONDON, Juno 21. Mrs. Rita Arm
strong Druxel, wife of Anthony .1.
DrexH, Amerlcun banker, was given
Judgment hero to-day against her
husband for a yearly allowance of
$50,000 by Justice Ncvlllo in Chancery
Court.
Whon tho oase was last beforo the
Court In December, 1916, Mr. Drexel
contested jurisdiction of the English
courts on the ground that he was a
resident of France. This point was
decided agntnst him and when oourt
opened to-day his attorney said that
he would not defend the case.
Mrs. Drexel separated from her
husband In 1911, whllo they wero liv
ing In Ixjudon, and It was announced
that she proposed to lnstltuto divorce
proceedings. These proceedings worn
droppod whon a ncparatlon agree
ment was entered Into, by which Mrs.
Drexel was to receive an annual sum
of ICO.00O and five policial on the Uf
of her husband, aggregating (300,000,
whloh wore to bo assigned to a trus
tee and held for her benefit In the
event of tho banker's death.
In July, 1915, Mr. Droxol filed suit
for divorce In I'arls and stoppod tho
ullowancH to hl wlfo. The present
suit wa3 tho result of this aotlon. Tho
Droxeli were married In 1S8S and
hnvo lived abroad for the past twenty
yeurs.
Freed on Oharsr of Striking Girl.
Joseph V, Curren. a real estate dualer
of No. 828 Itogerit Avenue, Kiatbuoh,
hua been discharged by Magistrate
licUnvir In tho Klutbuah Aviumi Tulicf
I'ourt uftr arraignment nn u eharKe
of striking his ward. Mih .M-irl j
P.x ,n f N.i !9 K.IM One llundic il nn,)
Thirteenth Street. Munliiiltan lie u,..
liled th young wonum's atnrr. but nd
uiltie.l that tin had .nloiel Fut nut of
his offli'u tieeausrt sh" anuoed hliu
TUB nolll.II TitAVKI, HUIIKAD,
An-iJ. J'uliinr (WuiMI UuiMiui.
Ka rr How .V. y oil.
Iloitu, tM'nauon,, lllcfi, tc, ,u a Hff.
wf Couinii f.ntnl inl 8.-iith Aaifrltis
ittimiMp lln. Il?" fn' e'cl ckw no
Pn diT tai u!M. Ttnlr' rhki n monn
mttn Uf Ttlrtwa Btikaua tOOO, Vt.
DREXEL
WN
NCOI OF
50,000 A YEAR
O Q MO EM6IMIESt IL.
DESTROYER OF 15 ALLIED
AEROS REPORTED KILLED
Lieut. Iniiiielinanii, German Avi
ator, Used Simple but Ef
fective Method.
IIIUIUN', Juno 21 (via Iondon).
I.leut. Immrlinunn, whose during ex
plolts as nn aviator havo made his
namo known throughout tho world,
Ls riorted to have been killed In a
fall with his aeroplane.
Tho lieutenant's namo was first
mentioned In nn official report from
tho German War OITIco on Oct '.',
1010, when It was related that ho had
iliot down Ills fourth aeroplane. Thn
last mention of his namo In an
on trial communication was nn May
17, whon ho shot down his fifteenth
aeroplane.
Lieut. Immelmann hnd destroyel
more soroplanes of the Kntento allies
In aerial battles ovor tho trenches In
Kronen than any other Qonnan avia
tor except Capt, Uoolke. Immelmann.
up to May of this year, hnd accounted
for fifteen hostile aoroplancs.
Tho mothods employed by Immel
mann havo been described as simple
but effective. H usually mounted to
a great height, about 13.000 feet, and
when ho oh.wrved a hostljn aero
plane beneath him would swoop In
ono long, straight dive. Ills plan wa
to pasN In a rapid diiiL" nal Just be
hind htn antagonist, at ivhom he fired
continuously us noon as ho oiuno
within range.
MISS MORGAN TO HELP
GUARDSMEN'S FAMILIES
Organizes National Patriotic Relief
Committee Other l-'unds
Started.
Preparations wore made to-day to
save from financial embarrassment
wives and other dependent women
folk and children of Guardsmen or
derM to pusalblo service In Mexico.
Miss Anne Morgan, Chairman of
tho Vacation War Iteliof Committee,
called a iiieetliiK and a Nation i I'a
tnotl,- Iteliof l''Juimlttei, wil'i .Mm.s
Maud" Wetmoio its ih.i riii.in, was
eslai llshe I 1' is lll'en le i,i have
brnnehes In everv State.
A hlinllur mettinn was held In the
rooms of tlm Woman's National I'urn.
mlttfB nf thn National Defiuiui Society,
presided over hy .Mrs. William I'um
mings Story, at which th Hospital
Supply Committee was orgnnlmd, with
Mrs. Charln 11. tioldnborough as
Chairman.
CARRANZA AND HIS CABINET
TAKE UP THE
Washington Gets
Several Foreign
EUROPE TAKING A AND
Bringing Pressure to Bear
Carranza to Avert War.
UNITED STATES NOTE
. DELIVERED TO CARRANZA
(Special Cablo Despatch to Tho Evening World.)
MKXICO CITY, June 21. The American reply to the Mexican not
was recrhrd here late last night and, translated Into Spanish, was ce
ntered to-day to President Carrania by Foreign Secretary Agullar.
I'arrania and bis Cabinet net In special session later to consider Ou
note. All of tbem refused to talk of tho situation.
CHIHUAHUA, Mexico (via El Paso Junction), June 21. The
aligning of the various faction leaders with the government continues.
Gen. Nafarrette wired Gen. Trevino that Manual Palaez, a former
Villa general, now operating in the Huastreas region, had placed himself
at the disposal or Gen. Carranza. Jose Ysabel Robles and Canuto Reyes,
with their forces, are expected in Chihuahua shortly under orders from
Gen. Trevino.
EAGLE PASS, Tex, June 21. Gen. Murgia, a Carranza commander,
arrived to-day at Pledras Negras, the Mexican town opposite here, with
a detachment of 2,000 Vaquis, reinforcing the garrison there. A large
part of the civilian population of Piedras Negras has already moved south.
Consul J. R. Silliman arrived in this city early to-day from Saltlllo.
Mr. Silliman is the last American Consul to leave northern Mexico.
WASHINGTON, June 2IStrouu pressure la bolng brought to beat
upon Gen. Carrania by representatives of Europoan powers to prevent
him from forcing a break with the United States. Indirect report reach la
the Htato Department to-day told of these efforts and said there waa a
possibility they -would be aucceastuL
PERSHING NOT STOPPED
BY THREAT OF MEXICANS
Sends a Small Force Thirty-Five Miles From
His Line, But Trevino Makes
No Move.
HAN ANTONIO, Tex June 21. Oen. Ferehing has given the Mexican
troops tho opportunity to make good tholr threat to attack him If he moved
east or west, but the Mexicans declined the Issue.
Tho American commander sont a small foroe eastward to Gurman,
about thlrty-flvo miles from his line of communication, yesterday, to In
vehtluato a ropcrt that a concentration of Mexican troops had been made
Uioro. Ho reported to Gen. Kuuston to-day that the dotachment bad re
turned without finding any Mexican troops In that vlclnly.
Remembering Gen. Trovlno'a throat to atUck tho Americans It they
moved in any but u northerly direction, officers here rogarded his failure
to do so as Indicative of reluctance on his part to carry out his threat
Gen. Funaton denied a report thnt he had made a socond request for
mllltla. He antd tho only request ho has made was tho one made public
yeBtorday.
ANSWER TO FUNSTON'S CALL
MAY BRING OUT 65,000 MEN
WASHINGTON, June 21 .Marching orders for National Guard organl
minus (summoned to the colon unler I'n'eldent Wilson's call aro stlli held
up at tho War Department pending omplctlon of the mobilization of the
troops a' State camps
hist as sunn as a sufficient nunihnr'f'
of tho guardsmen havo been mustred f Is bolloved Now York troops will be
Into the Fhderal service the War De- the first called on and that 5,000
parttnent will act on Gen. Kunaton's from tha various States will b In.
report of yesterday stating the num. eluded In the order,
bar of units he desired and to what Major Oen. Leonard Wood, Senior
points be desired them forwarded, It Major Oentral in the service, la ex
WILSON NOTE:
a Report That
Governments Are
on
