wiimiPiiipi'iiiyu'P'IWillPV- -iWMwpiwau n, iiLpipiiBwiwiiiiiii
FINANCIAL EDITION
wtzrrtrr srf?
NIGHT
EXTRA
WWpHSPH
NIGHT
EXTRA
nSrO. 241
TIIILADELPIIIA,. AVKJ3N15HJ3AT, J UNU til, JJ)1.
CorvnmliT, 1010, nt TiiBl'omie Lcpoer COMPlNt.
Pershing troops menaced
BY ADVANCING CARRANZIS
FUNSTON AGAIN BEGS FOR
;000 Mexicans Converging on American
EArmy Jm uast and JNorthwest
Threatening Lines Cavalry
Ready to Move
IfUNSTON'S SECOND URGENT .PLEA
FOlt ALU SIIUVYS UANUMl TU, AICM X
wAflUTNOTON. Juno 21. Gen. Frederick Funston's second nnnml fnr
Ktit nf the Nntional Guard to be dispatched nt once in order that General
Chine's nrmy might be reinforced was received here today and caused
Km nlarm in official circles.
W, Reports that Carrnnza forces under General Trevino, numbering 17,000,
l.p converging upon General Pershing, were the basis of Funston's appeal,
ire converging upuu uvnw' . wo.....h, mv nn,- uuaia ui r uiisum s appeal,
J -ino- !it it did so close on the heels of his first mrss.-uro vi-strnlnv.
ind coming as ik uiu m) ..;. .. ...... ..v.tla ui ma mat message yesieniay,
indicated the seriousness of the situation.
r It is said that Illinois and New York cavalry are already in shape and
$nbe dispatched nt once. The War Department, however, has not yet taken
Tction.
SAN ANTONIO, June 21. Major General Funston was ordered
the War Department today to recruit si': new regiments for the
regular army, four of infantry and two of cavalry. Detailed instruc
tions were mailed to him from Washington. Recruiting will start
iw
ai uukv.
JR.' DOUGLAS, Ari., June 21. Instructions today were received
ky the Mexican consuls here and at Naco and Nogales immediately
ASS wrier all Mexicans under their jurisdiction to leave for Mexico.
fffe instructions came from Elisco Arredondo, at Washington. The
instructions were prefaced with the statement that the United
States in its reply to General Carranza had refused to withdraw its
ffroops and is ordering its own citizens home.
General John J. Pershing's expeditionary forces are in such dancer from
ttfck by Carranza troops that General Funston has wired a second urgent
ipeal to the war Department for reinforcements from the National Guard.
'It is said that General Jacinto Trevino with 17,000 troops is closing in on
Pershing from the east and northwest and that a clash is imminent.
i Messages to El Paso are to the effect that a fight has already occurred
near Namiqupa between a scouting party and Carranza soldiers. The report
unconfirmed.
Border opinion is overwhelming that war with Mexico is inevitable. El
Paso.beiting odds are 5 to 1 on war.
I , Mexicans arc fleeing from the frontier. Agua Preitn was evacuated ves-
erday, the, inhabitants crying "Viva Carranza" as they entrained for the
interior. '
...
It is reported a force of 700 Carranzistas is moving toward Browns-
lie, Tex.
ne ascitic licet should- be in Mexican waters within 24 hours, ready to
fade the ports if necessary.
ashington is awaiting Cnrranza's next move.
H?,v00 CARRANZISTAS OONVTCRftTNtt
UPON PERSHING FORCE IN MEXICO
ANTONIO, June
NlM1nl Hf ln-u J.u-
t'-ii-tr ejwi:aii iruops,
21. Seventeen
under General
'llHntA Tn..ln .. .. .1. .
IISw "-MIU UIU UUIIVUIKIHK UMMI lilt
lJij n "Pedltionaiy forces of Brigadier
fi-fl.John J- Pershing, from the east
Hid northwest, it Is rinnr..,l In n rllannlnh
igW today from Columbus, N. M.
lli .Mexicans, divided In rnlnmns. nrn
fiautjl for HI Valle and Namlqulpa.
KMral Funston. fearing an attack on
iAinerlcan forces, has made a second re
Jittt to the Wnr Denartment that all avail.
f pe? Na"onal Guard, especially cavalry,
lfEPuhed t0 the border at once. This re-
l was sent to Washington today.
P" oeen received at Major General
iSns headquarters that the New York
H
and Illinois cavalry are all ready fully
equipped and ready to take the field.
Scouts sent out by Ocnoral Pershing are
said to have discovered tho appionchlng
Mexicans. When they reported the prcsenco
of tho Carranzistas, the scouts were rein
forced. WASHINGTON, Juno 21. The first
gioup of tho NatlonaJ Guard detailed for
border service will doubtless bo en routo
before the week-end. Officials today be
lieved they would sco service on Mexican
soil.
Orders for cntrnlnment were expected
before nightfall, and the execution there
of depends upon readiness. What States
Continued on race Klglit. (,'olm.m Tho
i-IAVS ADVANCE
TOWARD FOE'S
VLADIMIR 1INE
rOtrk?
SKaledines' Army Gains
- mnes in 48 Jbiours'
Drive
LlJglOUS BATTLE ON STYR
SETnnnn4T t .
i -...us, uuub si, me uussmn
BjHj inaer General Kaledlnes, In Volhy.
JSMM aivanced is miles in the direction
l"Lto VlarUml. ir.i ,.-.. . ..
er., "iiiuijrigia nne, in me
-..., , tt aiepaicn irom the
, ,. ... uuucu vnai uie Austrian
h4fy at Lutsk was captured when Rus-
aM OCCUnla,? t,. .
nd Vladimir Volynsk are held by
Y5 miles norlheast of Lemberg;
p.-i - I-. yuinynia, zb miles north of
M "'"'"Wroent " PoUring Into
m&7, "Cla m an etfort t0 B!ve
SWfo-liungarlan army and check the
ySH Or the T..t
W bh armies of General
battles are ,UU raB,0E qn the'
B&tt. n '" n0rthwes t Lutzk.
Oermans are striving to prevent
ETVr amlne a wed?e between
Wk?.:' 2X von Unsmgen and
ffiSf. .:. """"; am to check the
i7t ' Z? X? the Wl-n,
ft An V T Mauclan capital.
i rent :r:,T, t0Tce n the
iDm.n. """"" ""siiapeu with
C rSSUU 0f tlle "Id Ad,
f)t and in Volhynla.
wth. , 7. ""'"if upon i.em-
beh.ii ""iiu-t,muerg rail-
S VWly unci th. ..,. . ..
. ""' ine town Is
1 be jtumlncni
LONDON'S REPORTS
OF MUNICH RIOTS
LAUGHED AT HERE
Pro-Germans Have Letters
and Newspapers Proving
No Food Shortage
SCHMIDT GIVES VIEWS
Reports of serious food riots In Munich
and Aix.la-Chapelle, which came to Amer
ica today by way of London, were denied
by pro-Germans of Philadelphia, who are
In touch with friends In the Interior of
Germany.
A demonstration, said a cablegram from
Zurich, took place In Munich and more than
25,000 persons tookpait The Rathhaus
(town hall) was damaged and troops were
called out to quell the disturbance.
"Munich IS only a few hours ride from
Cologne, and I )iao a copy of the latest
newspaper from Cologne, dated June 3,"
said Louis II, Schmidt, manager of Osten
dorff's cafe. '"It tells quite openly of the
price of food In bulk. In fact, the mer
chants there are advertising their mer
chandise in the columns of the dally papers.
That some food has Increased In cost is
admitted throughout Germany, Then
again, many "merchants boast that they have
pot raised the price of their goods,
"And If Cologne, which is. near the Hol
land border and probably relied on Holland
for supplies. Is free' frorafood riots and
such disturbances, there Is to reason to be
lieve that Munich Is in want. Munich is
oioro protected and more self-reliant."
The London cablegram giea details of
the I lots. . '
'Women who had been unable to obtain
provisions In the morning swarmed the
MaricnpUU and at the Kathhaua torwacht
beg4n a now demonatnUlon. asking for
CaulluutJ oil I'M Two. Column Qa
HOLLWEG'S OPPONENTS CLAMOR
FOR RENEWAL OF U-BOAT CAMPAIGN
Uy CARL W.' ACKEHMAN
BERLIN, Juno 21. Taking ndvnntnKc of it growing intlilYorcncc to
American opinion, advocates of n strong submarine policy have reopened tho
campaign for .1 more effective use of the German U-bonts.
The German people now realize that hostilities will not end this summer
nnd may drag into next ymr. Faced with this fact they nro united in tho
desire to sec tho war pushed with' the utmost vigor until the Allies nro
brought to terms. This feeling, spreading gradually throughout the Empire
during tho last few weeks, has been seized upon ns a weapon by the men who
condemned Chnncellor von Dethmnnn-IIollwcg for yielding to tho United
States in the recent submarine controversy. .
The Chnncellor at the present moment has the upper hand. Hut tho
recent slackening of the press censorship litis been followed by some bold
statements regarding the effectiveness of the submarine weapon which Gcr
many still possesses and by renewed activity on the part of the Navy Lengue.
It is impossible to forecast the result if regit id for American opinion gives
way more and more to the determination for aggressive measures to bring
tho war to a victorious end.
During recent conversations with public men I have noted a general
change in their nttitude toward America. Summed up, the German view right
now is about this:
"Sixty per cent, of Americans arc against us. Thirty per cent, are for
us. Ten per cent, are indifferent. Nothing we can do will change American
opinion in a way that will help us win the war. We should go ahead, then,
concentrating all our energy on victory."
Tho military aid economic situation convinces the Germans thnt they
have nothing to fear from a continuance of the fighting. An admission in
an article in the London Jlait that the Uritish blockade cannot force Germany
to terms has been widely read here. In view of the recent eight days of
rain, followed by ideal weather for crops, the German people are convinced
thnt they cannot be starved out.
The Russian offensive hasn't disturbed the public mind. The Cologne
Gazette declares that tho Russians not only have been halted, but that a
successful German counter-attack is already under way.
The Russians, the Gazette says, have failed in their prime object to win
Rumania to the aide of the Allies, as is evidenced by the fact that the Ru
manian Queen is soon to visit Berlin.
IN THEIR ROBES AT U. OF P. EXERCISES
Plioto by i:w:ivo I.) iurn stuft Photo-- ml 14
Provost E. P. Smith and J. B. Lippincott.'
'FORWARD MARCH'
TO MOUNT GRETNA
EARLY SATURDAY
Amended Schedules of De
partures Issued by Brig
adier General Price
BIG RUSH TO JOIN COLORS
Brigadier General AVIlliam G. Tilce, Jr.,
commanding tho First Brigade, N. O. P.,
which comprises the 1st, 2d and 3d Ilegl
ments, of this city, today Issued ielsed or
ders relatlvo to tho departuro of "those or
ganizations for Cnmp Brumbaugh, Mount
Gretna, next Saturday morning.
According to the latest arrangements
tho 2d Regiment will leave Its armory,
Broad street and Susquehanna avenue. In
time to entrain at Broad and Huntingdon
streets at 8 o'clock. This Is four hours later
than tho tlmo set In the original order Is
sued lato last night. The 1st Itegimcnt will
leave Broad and Callowhlli Mreets nt 9
o'clock Satuiday morning,
It, llko the 2d, will travel over the Head
ing system. The 3d Regiment will niako
the tilp oer the Pennsylvania Railroad,
starting from Broad street and Washington
avenue at 11 o'clock. The 1st Regiment
originally wis ordered to leave nt 5 o'clock,
BREAKFAST" AT ARMORIES.
By the amended schedules the men of
the three local commands will be able to
breakfast at their armories prior to the
departure for Ml. Gretna. Each train will
consist of 15 passenger coaches, and it Is
expected that the run will be made In four
or flvo houis. The troop trains will have
right of way. Major Georgo Huey Smith,
bilgade quartermaster, and the railroad of.
ficials are In complete accord In their
plans.
The rush to enlist In the National Guard
amazes the members of the arious iegl
ments. Officers of. the several bodies of
troops In thl3 city say there will be no
difficulty, should the Governor so decide,
to recruit additional regiments to supply
RSENAL' TO BUY
SUPPLIES WORTH
SEVEN MILLION
Contracts to Be Awarded
Today Only First of
Large Purchases
MUNITIONS RUSHED SOUTH
Continued on I'ase Nine, Column Three
WILSON PICKS GREGORY
FOR SUPREME JUSTICE
President Will Nominate Attor
ney General and Blake John
Wt Davis Successor
WASHINGTON, June 21,-rIt was an,
nounced at the White House today that the
nomination of Attorney qeneral Thomas
Watt Gregory, of Austin, Teas, to ba a
Justice of the Supreme Court to succeed
Charles Evans Hughes, resigned, would be
sent to the Senate in the near future
At the same time John W. Davis, of
West Virginia, now solicitor general of the
Department ot Justice, wUl be promoted to
be Attorney Qeneral,
MiMMHMB
Record Army Contracts
at Schuylkill Arsenal
Largest nrmy contract for quarter
master's supplies awarded today.
One hundred firms will share in
furnishing equipment.
Expenditure of $7,000,000 in
volved. Delivery to be made from one to
twelve months after contracts nro
signed.
Bids to be opened July 2 for fur
nishing: 200,000 pairs, of infantry breeches.
50,000 pairs of cavalry breeches.
100,000 pairs of woolen infantry
breeches.
50,000 pairs of woolen cavalry
breeches.
100,000 olive-drab coats.
50,000 woolen coats.
50,000 overcoats.
The largest group ot contracts ever
awarded for, army supplies nt one tlmo wll
be awarded-today.at tho Schuylkill Arsenal.
It calls for equipment and miscellaneous
supplies for the Quartermaster's Depart
ment, and will. Involve an expenditure of
about 7,000,000, Jioro than 100 Arms will
share In the award. Bids were opened on
June G,
According to Colonel O. II. Tcnroso Ue.
livery of the supplies called for will be
made at Intervals of from ono to It months
from signing of the various contracts.
Big as It Is, the group of contracts U
only one of many which the Government Is
preparing to place through th Schuylkill
Arsenal for army needs In the present Mex
ican crisis. On July 2 bldg will be opened
at the Arsenal for supplying various articles
of clothing and uniforms, included in this
order will be 200,000 pairs of breeches for
Infantrymen, 60,000 pairs of cavalry
breeches,' 10000 pairs of woolen breeches
for Infantry, 60,000 pairs of woolen breeches
for cavalry. 100,000 olive drab coats, 60,000
woolen coats and 60,000 overcoats.
Ammunition .and other supplies are leav
ing the SchuylHlU and Fraukford Arsenals
at the rate of from 3 to 12 carloads daily.
These are being shipped direct to the
Southern border. Colonel Fnro declares
that the railroads are responding splendidly
ta the Government's demands, and are mov
ing all. shipments with the greatest expe
dition to the designated points.
QUICK NEWS
AMERICAN LEAGUE
GHIGAGO, lstg
ST.LOUIS
NATIONAL LEAGUE
BOSTON, 1st s O 0 0 2 0 0 2
NEW YOUK 1O1O0OO
Allen and Gowdy; Pcrrlti nnd Ktiridcn.
CINCINNATI O 3 0 0 0
CIIICAGO.lstK O 10 0 0
40
PHILLIES-BROOKLYN GAME CALLED OFF
EUBETS flELU, Dnoklyn, June 21. Tlle game tot? ween MUli
dolphln niul Biooklyn scheduled for this, afternoon was called oil
because of rain. A double-header will bo nluyctt tomorrow.
RAIN HALTS ATHLETICS-WASHINGTON DOUBLE-HEADER
SHIBB PARK, June 21. Both games between the Athletic? n"'
Washington scheduled for this afternoon were called olf on n.coim'
of mill. The fhst game was called hi the fouith inning with th
Mnckincn in the lead, 3-1. Two games will bo played tomorrow.
JAMAICA RACING RESULTS
1'ir.st race, 2-year-olds, purse 500, 5 furlongs Yellow Stone,
10S, Taplin, 3 to 2, 2 to 5 nnd out, won; Amalgamator, 10S, T. Mc
Tnggait, 2 toNl, 3 to 5 and, even, second; Kildee, 101, J.McTnggait.
18 to 5, even and 2 to 5, thhcl. Time, 1:01.
OTTAWA RACING RESULTS
First race, maidens, 2-year-olds, sellng, 0 furlongs S?lccpy Sam,
$2S.OO, $9.-10 and $4.G0, won; Bright Snuds, 103, McAtcc, $4.50 and
$3, cecond; Gratitude, 107, Byion, :p310, thiul. Time, 1:05 1-5.
I'RIOE 0203 ONl1
M STUDENTS
EAR PLEA FOR
PATRSOTICDUTY
Service to Country Keynote
in Provost's Address
to Graduates
884 DEGREES CONFERRED
DUTCH REFORMED CHURCH AT ASIJURY PARK NEXT YEAR
IIOUjAND, Mlrh., .luho ill. Asbtiry Park, 2s J was hclected as the next meet
ing plnco of.tho General Synod of tlio Dutch lleformed Church nt the closing; session
today. Tho Uov. I'ctcr Jlocidyke, of Holland, was elected president of tho yiiod.
GERMAN DESTROYER HIT BY MINE TOWED TO PORT
AJISTBRDAJr, June 21. A German dcstro.ver, badly damagCd by a mine, has
Juit been towed Into KccIiritRgc, suya.tho TeleKinlT.
Bliss Pony Principal Orator at
Commencement Exercises
BLISS PEURY
Professor of English literature at '
Harvard, who was orator of tho
dny at the University commence
ment exercises this morning
AUSTRIAN LOSSES IN TRENTINO PUT AT 150,000 MEN
MILAN, Juno 21. Austio-Hungailan losses In Trentlno sluco the offensive
movement asalnst tho Italians was Iiokuii May 21 were estimated today at 150,000.
CYRUS H. K. CURTIS GIVES 550,000 TO WOMEN'S WAR FUND
Tho war fund of the Peiiii.sylvnnia Women's Division for National Preparedness
has been Inci eased to SluO.POO, the sum of $30,000 having been pledged by Cyrus
H. K. Curtis. Mrs. Georgo AV. Childs Drexel, president and organizer of tlio Penn
h.vlvanla Division, announced tlio namo ot tho donor jesterdny. Mr. Curtis' Rift will
bo used In tho event of wai hotvvcou tho United States and Mexico or any other
country. A special meeting of tho Philadelphia chapters and thoso of nearby com
munities will bo held at 3:15 o'clock tills afternoon at tho homo of Mrs. Diexel In
Itryn Mawr. Tho purpose Is to complete plans to provido food for tho guardsmen
VvMiilo on their way to camp:
BROTHER OF VERA CRUZ VICTIM JOINS NAVY
P1TTSDUUGII, Juno 21. Among tho young men enlisted in tlio navy recruiting
oflleo yestorday was Kielmrd 13. Do I-ovvry. tho 17-yeur-old brother of Francis Do
I.owry, who was Killed when Vera Cruz was occupied by American forces in
April, 1011.
STRIKE OF 20,000 TIN WORKERS AVERTED
ATLANTIC CITV, Juno 21. Roptesentntlves of tho Amalgamated Association
of Tin Workers and tlio sheet and tin plato manufacturers of tho United States
averted a nation-wido strike affecting 20,000 men and plants nil over tlio country,
many of them in western Pennsylvania, by comptomislng the blggpst vvuge fight
In yeais hero last niglit nftor a struggle which had continued for 10 days. It is a
mixed victory, tho manufacturers conceding a 3 per cent, advaiu'o on tin ami 4
per cent, on sheet. Tlio vvago ronfereuco of bar iron manufacturers starts today.
They ato demanding an advance of 15 per cent, for 11,000 workmen.
BOY SCOUTS IN U. S. NOW NUMBER 182,982
N13W VOIUv, Juno 21. ltecruitlng of the Hoy Scouts 1ms progres.sed so rapidly
that within tlio last four months tho membership lias Increased 72,272, teports
James 13. West, chief scout executive. Tlio not gain in membership hlneo last year
is more than -13,000 and tho total registered .scouts now number 1S2.D82, besides
43,000 ofllcially enrolled ns leadors.
SUFFRAGISTS MENACE DEMOCRATIC PARTY.
WASHINGTON, Juno 21. Tho Congtcssional Union for Woman Suffrage and
the Woman's part? announced last night that they would campaign against tho
Democratic party jf tho Democrats refuse to pass the Susan R. Anthony constitu
tional nmondmenrremoving from tho ballot tho qualification of tex. "Democratic
leaders cannot fool women who desire tho ballot by an uinuid platform plank," said
Mrs. O. H. V. Uelmont.
BRITISH BOMBS SMASH FIVE TURKISH PLANES
LONDON, Juno 21. Tlio Oillclal Press IJun-au ga'vo out tho following last night:
"A large enemy nrroilroma near 131 Arish (on the Mediterranean, 100 miles east ot
tho Sues; Canal) niul enemy camps and troopi were bombed by 11 Hritlsh aeroplanes
on Sunday, A hostile pilot vas about to ascend and his aeroplane was destroyed
by a down-swooping ratder. Seventy-six bombs vveio dropped. Five and probably
more enemy aeioplanes weio destroyed. Thiee UiitUh aeroplanes were lost. Two
pilots vveio saved. The third, not escaping, burned his machine."
BREAD RIOTS SPREAD THROUGHOUT GREECE
ATHENS, Juno 21. Bread riots are teported ut Patras, Alglna, Mallas and
Agrlulon, The Greek Geneial Staff has been unable to demobilize three aimy corps
in Macedonia owing to the holding up of the ships which had been teiiuisitioned for
their passage home by th- blockade.
i ....
COTTON CROP OF 1915 SMALLEST SINCE 190'J
WASHINGTON, June 21. Final hUnUtlcs of the 1915. cotton crop of the United
States, Just issued by the Census liuieau, place the pioductlon at 11,1'J1,S;'0, equiva
lent to 00-pound bales, the smallest crop since 1903. Production in every State
showed a decrease, the giejtaat pioportlonately being in Oklahoma, where the crop
was only4 a trifle moie tlian half as large as tliat of 1914.
2,000,000 ARMENIANS SLAIN DURING WAR
PARIS, June 21. A tota' of 2,000.000 Aunenians have been massacred By the
Turks since the beginning ot the war, says Henry Dai by, the correspondent of the
Paris Journal, who has beer investigating the atrocities at Brzerum. Tiie sole
survivors ot th race are 100 000 in Mesopotamia. 150,000 in the western part of Asia
Minor, 180.000 in Constantinople and Smrna and 200,000 who have crossed the
Caucasus border. tiiO.OOO in all.
A stlrrliiR plea, for true patriotism, which
was received by rounds ofsnpplause, was
iiiuiIo by Provost Kdgnr Kalis Smith today
at the lCOth commencement of the Univer
sity of Pennsylvania, held in tho Metropoli
tan Opera House. The remarks of the
Provost wcro cheered ngaln and again by
tho graduates and others In tho audience.
When Provost Smith reminded the grad
uates that they were servants of the coun
try, a burst of cnthuslnsm followed from
ovcry part of tho opera house.
Might hundred and eighty-four received
undergraduate and postgraduate degrees
nnd certificates In courses In which no de
grees nro granted.
"Vou must get a superstructure of polit
ical knowledge," said Provost Smith, "to
enable you to bo permanently useful to
your country and promote Its welfare.
You come hero at' St significant tlmo and
you cannot be Indifferent to the destinies
of your country.
"It is not my place (o excite your political
prejudlco or passions, but let me urge upon
you to join the party of those, under what
ever political denomination they may be
ranked, who sincerely nnd genuinely love
our country and who are faithful to the
principles of the men who founded this na
tion, who Io?cd liberty more than they
feaied death."
Seated near Prpvost Smith was Mayor
Smith. Many prominent rhlladelphlans at
tended the exercises.
Addresses wero also delivered by Prof.
Bliss Perry, orator of tho day, nnd John
C.idwaladcr, member of the board of trus
tees, who presented to the University a por
trait of Charles Custls Harrison, ex-provost
of tho University of Pennsylvania, painted
by Julian Story.
Mr. Cadwalader, In his address, made a
plea for a return to the old-style teach
ing of tho humanities, deprecating th
tendency toward vocational training to the
exclusion of the pursuit of academic studies.
Professor Perry discussed three faults
In tho life ot American universities, "Our
spirit of Imowlngness, our spirit of calcula
tion and our bplrit of fear."
Mr. Cadwalader, In his address, paid a.
high tribute to tho career of Mr. Harrison.
He was a member of the class which was
giaduated E4 years ago, nnd In which Mr.
Harrison was llrst honor man. He told of
tlio success of the members ot this small
group and traced the growth of the uni
versity in the years that have elapsed,
giving Mr. Harrison much credit for Its
expansion..
"Va see," he said, "the prodigious growth
and expansion, but Is there true progress!
Does the system louovveu louay prouuca
such Jesuits ns those shown In that Bmall
body of young men who 54 years ago re
ceived tho diploma of this their Alms
Mater? I have only referred to my own
class ; but other classes of that period
would not be less true examples.
"Is there any vocational training which
las such foundations for after life as
('untlnutd on Tact Fire. Column On
THE WEATHER
The European war and the squabble we're
having with Mexico are nothing to compare
with the dally battles now being waged be
tween Mr. and Mrs. Married as to where
they shall spend their acatIon. He wants
to go to the beashore and Bhe yearns for
the mountains until the next day, when he
switches to the mountains and she thinks
the shore would be .better. Day after day
.un., nhnnpn thair mlmlR. hut hav hv
chance dechle upon the same place. At tht
last momeni inej 'J biu "'v
lively as the Morgue on a rainy night. Then
each will blame the other But, aft?r all,
a vacation is a goad thing, It makes the
victims realize what a good and comfortable
home they have on returning" from the
w;ene ot conflict and gossip.
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
Showers late this afternoon or evening
and tonight; Thursday probably air;
fresh shifting winds.
LOST AND I-OUND
caLlAK DOO Loal. or atraiid from 38th and
i'Ustout, Saturday. Scotch colli , brawn, witu
. blacfc and wblu marRlnsa, (Malr asawara U
nun ot tduia. JloAnrJ It returned tit ii$I
Cbaatout
1'i.NKNIPK allver b Markat Obeajnut on
IQUtnKUU C W M . raw II aig.led.Cant
Oilier VusjUled Ad ea 1'atri 13, IS ari I?
mtimmM&ieemKimmmm
fe ji .mm rim Jim irmiTf ii fftffcaftfcfcrf
mmmmmlmmmmmlmmmm
