Give Liberally for the State Fair Give Till It Hurts; The Drive Is On for One More Day
ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
THmrV-S'VENTH
Vol.. CU N. H2.
Ten Pages
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Wednesday, June 21, 1916.
Ten Pages
Dntly by Carrier or Mall, Mc
Month. Single Copies,
70,000 IN WILL
FACE CARRANZA'S
SOLDIERS ALONG
THE RIO GRANDE
National Guard Reinforce
ments to Reach General
Funston in Week or Ten
. Days,
AT LEAST 28,000 ARE
TO BE SENT TO BORDER
Full Strength of 100,000,
However, Will Be Asked for
in Case of Intervention in
' Southern Republic,
IB MOUND. JOURNAL A0 WIC
Sun Antonio, Tex., June 20. Fac
ing Carranza's defiant army In north
ern Mexico there will be stationed
along the Hio Grande within a work
or ten days an American force that
will total, it was stated today, al
most 70,000 men.
General Funston has requested the
war department to send him as quick
ly as possible a large part of the na
tional guardsmen und advices re
ceived late today indicated that, en
training of th first troopa would be
begun tomorrow. As fast as they
arrive in the south they will be sent
to the stations chosen. A part will
be brought to San Antonio and held
here as a reserve, but a large part
of them will be within sight of Mex
ico when they get off the trains.
To Send at Least 2S.000.
General Funston did not announce
how many lie has asked for or the
stations to which they will be sent,
bui it is known that he expects more
than a division and It was said that
not less than 28,000 Imoro would (be
sunt.
Secretary Lunsing's note to Car
ranza's minister of foreign affairs was
read carefully by General Funston
and members of his staff.
Already the border army, wade ud
of troops. f the regular establish
ment and the militiamen of Texas,
New Mexico and Arizona, comprises
more than 40,000.
Long Line to (iuard.
The army already patrolling the in
ternational line is prepared to resist
any aggression the Mexican govern
ment forces might make but it was
determined some time ago that it was
not big enough to guard the long
line from Urownsville to the I'nelfie
and army officers never have regard
ed it ns strong enough to undertake
an invasion in force,
(leneral Funston's request for the
guardsmen was for a "number suffi
cient to give adequate protection to
the border." Officers at his head
quarters also felt that with tills In
creased force, operations In Mexico on
a big scale might be undertaken, but
in the event of intervention or any
other action making necessary a gen
eral forward movement Into Mexico,
vieneral Funston explained that he
would ask immediately for the re
mainder of the 100,000 guardsmen
called to the service this week. Iti
none of the daily reports that reached
(leneral Funston was there news of
fresh raids or other border disturb
ances but information activity of
troops of the de facto government
was received.
Pershing Avoids Claslu
General Pershing lias been success
ful in avoiding a clash with the
troops that are drawn across his reuv
and that cover his flanks notwith
standing that reports Indicator; tnat
tie has continued to send scouting
patrols some distance iVom his line
of communication and towards the
with biyotid Namlquipa. The Mexi
can troops so fai- have contented
themselves with assuming such strat-
THE WEATHER
TIIE WKATIIER FOKECAST.
New Mexico: Wednesday and
Thursday fair, no change in temper
ature, CITY BANK CTKAjaiJiUa
J114.338.T3.
The Day in Congress
SliXATK.
Met at noon.
Senate commerce subcommittee
fonsidered shipping bill.
Postoffiee nppropriation bill eon
lilvred, l'ass,i diplomatic appropriation
hill,
Ilecet,sed at ".:40 p.' ni. to noon
Wednesday.
HOUSE.
-Met at 11:20 a. m.
Debated whether District Attorney
-Marshall at New York Is in contempt
"I the house because of hie , letter
Wtlcliiizing the 'subcommittee Inves.
'(fating impeachment charges against
lilm.
Adopted resolution directing the
riCdker to issue a warrant to take in
ustody District Attorney Marshall
' -w York to bring him before the
f of the house for contempt. '
Adjourned at 5:30 p. in. to 11:0
m. Wednesday.
Captured Americans
Freed When Pershing
Threatens to Attack
(V MORHINS JOURNAL RMCIAL L.RARID Will.
Colonla Iiublan, Chihuahua, June
20. (Via Wireless to Columbus, M.
M.) An American soldier was cap
tured today by Carranciastas of the
Casas Grandes garrison Hnd held pris
otrney Dady sketched the purported
only when General J. J. Pershing, ex
peditionary commander, sent a de
mand in which he warned the Mexi
can commander that if the soldier was
held an hour longer, American troops
would attack the town.
eglc positions as to give them an ad
vantage In the event they are order n
to carry out General Trevlno's threat
to attack General Pershing "if be
moves in any but a northerly direc
tion." L
AI-tomobhk iuivi:h is
FillKH ON BY .MEXICANS
Bisbce, Ariz., June 20. An auto
mobile driver named Lofay, coming
from Naeo, Ariz., to Bisbee, about lo
o'clock tonight was fired upon pre
sumably by Mexicans, one mile this
aide of the border. Officers arc In
vestigating. Hurt In Auto Wreck.
Hast Las Vegas, N. M., June. 20.
Mr. O. V. Medgcock was seriously in
injured Sunday night when the touring
car of her son, Charles Hedgcock, was
upset at the stockyards, a short dis
tance north of thlH city. Young
Hedgcock was teaching his father to
drive, when the hitter lost control of
the machine and allowed it to run
over an embankment anil plunge into
ditch. The machine overturned,
and Mrs. Hedgcock wu-s pinned be
neath It. it is believed she suffered
Internal injuries.
fjeiural Scott's Kim III.
Columbus, X. M., June 20.
David H Scott, son of General
Meut.
Hugh
I Scott, chief of staff of the Cnlted
States army, arrived here today from
the field suffering with
fever. He will be taken to
tury hospital in Washington for
merit.
ORPET CASE TO
TESTIFY T
i ii
Testimony of Miss Youker Ex-j
pected to Close State's Evi-i
Ia.ma, rf A n ,-4'l e I m I
uuiioc, ucicimaiii o
Letters Offered,
'OTHER GIRL' II
or
ments and mining operations have
j taken place ulont; the remainder of
lit mohnino jourhai. iriciAi. un winil , ne Frpneh front,
Waukegan, HI., June 20,--Celestla AUack9 and 00UnU.r attacks by tho
Youker, the "other girl" In the case j Austrians and Italians In the Tren
of William H. Orpet, university stu- tlno region have followed each other,
dent, charged with the murder of but neither of the belligerents has
Marion Iambert, Is expected to takeion able to make any marked prog-
. , ress.
the witness stund tomorrow when it i ,
Is thought that the lust of the state s
evidence will be presented.
Much, of today's testimony con
cerned statements alleged to have
been made by Orpet to lawyers, po
llcemirn and newspaper reporter
loot lifni- and immediately follow-
ing bis arrest. The admissibility or.coloraaa, hoiiora, who arrived here
much of it was questioned and the today with a party of American refu
wltnessos in many Instances were In- gees from llermosillo und oilier
terrogated while the Jury was ex-1 points, nearly lost his life in Ui
eluded from the room, us memueis
Were brougnt Ua, K U ionic i"o uw-.u.
mlssible portions.
WanUil the SinM-ilative.
i .,w,l(,,l,w1 n'l-in UtiilO's At- I
II WUiS .......
t-...,,.. .i,iiij ihp roirnorted
. I'.r. Z " ,, to;
oonieius ot me n-n.-.n j..h -
Marion, list summer they were ar
dent and jealous in tone. They com
plained U'cause Marlon addressed him
as "Hear" instead of "Dearest,
an,j
i.; ......ft. Mia rfi,rin:e was
III II. .I I,. r...... - ,
no.de to illicit relations. There was a
li.iwn in tho series while Ornot was
, I T.v,v,ut ffw the sunt
III lOMIIlT ill Jjon.. i...
iirt i... ,i,il,.il to
nice vaaui'Mi. . ,i,.n u..- - - - j
i... T.t.,..,.it.r rt wtccnoRlo at Madi-
son in tho fall, the tone of the letters
wa" cooler State's Attorney Dady re -
marked. Marion was no longer "Dear-
est" but merelv "Dear Marion," and
est. but mertiy ,hg
the young man Who a few mourns
i,.. ..i..i,i, the mails
- . , , l,, .t .., ri-
for her letters to him was now ram
f,. .,, writing to
SOSllll aIUHrii,." . ' "
her. I
Curious Alsnit l'.nsuK'n'',,t-
.luilge Donnelly look the matter of
admissibilitv under advisement. The
last of the letters, written January I.,
....i.i ii,.. v. won 1,1 cnll her UP on
February S. and would see her "'egfit
next day. According to previous tes-l
litnony Marlon had for some time
been curious to know whether reports
of Orpet's engagement to .Miss You
ker were true, but is said to have
told two of her girl friends that she
didn't know whether she would see
him. She did. however. Her tody
was found in the snow of Helm's
woods the next day.
Witnesses today were Walter Mc
Guire. of Lake Forest, the home or
(irpet, and Marion Victor Harnett- a
newspaper man of Madison, Wis.;
Sheriff Klvln Griffin, who arrested
the defendant, and Everett FrlgAWM
and John Keller, Chicago reporters.
It developed In their testimony that
Orpet. at Sfadlson on February 10,
denied that he had been at Lake For
est, but later admitted tha. he had
been there.
RUSSIAN HORDES
PURSUE ENEMY'S
SPLIT ARMY ANO
IE
S
Three Bukowina Points Fall
Into Hands of Slavs, While
Austrians Flee in Disor
der, GERMANY CLAIMS SOME
TOWN
SUCCESSES IN EASTrrot -which have been caused this
'government by the discourteous ton
Berlin Reports Teutonic Vic
tories Near Lutsk; Advance
Toward Lemberg Is Being
Desperately Resisted,
lv unRNINS JOURNAL RRKOIM. UAMO WIRSI
The Russians, continuing their ad
vance against the Austrians through
I!ukona have erased the river Se
reth, southwest of Czcrnowitz and oc
cupied the towns of SCadova, Stregl
nez, and Gliboka. The Austrians in
this region, their army cut In two, and
declared by i'etrograd to bo in dis
orderly retreat with the Russians en
ergetically pursuing them toward the
Carpathian mountains.
An element of uncertainty as to the
(situation between the Prlpet river ami
jthe, U.illcan frontier has arisen owing
to the divergent reports of the Rus
sian and German war office, both
claiming successes for their armies.
tropical i iNornic.'isi 01 Kiseiin, wnieii ins oe
the mili- Itween Lutsk and Vladimir-Volynski,
treat-jPetrograd says an Austrian attack
supported by Germans wus repulsed,
while lierlln uscsrts that the Teutons
were victorious and are fighting their
way forward againvt the Russians.
Varied Claims.
The Russians also claim a defeat of
the Teutonic allies southeast of Lo
katchi, which lies south of Klsselin,
while Berlin declares that between
the Hovel-Lutsk railroad and the Tu
ria river, the Teutons have, broken
down the' Russian "resistance or re
puked their attacks.
In Galicla, Austrians and Germans
are still desperately resisting the Itus-
Isian attempts to press forward toward
iLemborg.
In nemi. the situation ,.n the
Artillery is Active.
LOVei In ,n, region of Fort Vaux, north
jea.st of rerdun, there has been rather
i heavy artillery fighting and bnmbard-
DRUNKEN CARRANCISTA
ORDERS GERMAN HANGED
(BY MOMNINa JOURNAI. PKCIAL ttASfo WIRC)
Nogales, Ariz., Juno 20. Adolph
Schauer, a German resident of J.a
i.ojoraoa raiuruay ai me nanus ot
,ouu uuili'u uy u. iui rm-iHia. oill
cer, who is said to hnve boon intoxi
cated. Sehatier, at first refusing to con-
reports brought by refugees,
admitted late today that a noose had
been pluced around tils neck and an
attempt was being made to hang
j him when officers on the staff of
uenerai ucnoa inierierea ami placed
the orionilmg oltieer under guard.
United States Consul Hosteller,
who lift his post at Hermosillo
'yesterday, left for l.os Angeles
today
to Join his
wife and family.
"I left Hermosillo without inwtruc-
trom Wush.ngotn. he said,
j' - 'ml ordered Americans to leave in
"ie of personal asHuram es roin
General Ochoa that they would be
protected even if United States troops
i
crossed the border. It appeared
nsky to remain,
nccomjianying our
A special guard
car was under
to shoot anybody who at-
Itempted to molest us. At. Magda-
le.ua the guard pereroptorily broke
up a demonstration attempted against
us. Thi To are. not more than a
hall'
era
dozen Americans left in noith
Sonora and 1 think they will
iway safely in a few days."
WILSON HEADQUARTERS
OPENED IN NEW YORK
V MOAMIM JOURNAL APKCIAL L-CaBKD Wlftll
New York, June 20. National
democratic headquarters Were estab
lished here today and plans laid for
the campaign for the re-election of
Woodrow Wilson.
Vance MeCormlck, the new national
chairman, will confer with President
Wilson in Washington In regard to
eleven men said to have been tenta
tively selected as probable members of
the campaign committee. It was said
two of the men are Henry Morgen
th.iu, former ambassador lo Turkey,
and Dudley Field Malone, collector of
the Port of New A'ork.
Secretary Lansing's Latest
& 0 EJ 3 El
Note to General Carranza
(By Morning Journal
Washington, Juno 20 .--The text of
the latent note to the de facto gov
ernment follows:
"The Secretary of State to the Sec
retary of Foreign nidations of the
de facto government of Mexico:
"Department of Stuto, Washington,
June 20, 191:
"Sir 1 have read your communi
cation, which was delivered to me on
May 22, 1910, under instructions of
tho chief executive of the do facto
government of Mexico on the subject
of the presence of American troops its
Mexican territory and I would be want
ing in candor if I did not, before mak
ing answer to the allegations of fad
and the conclusions reached by ynui
irnvi'mmont. eviiifvu 1 tit titirnrlHA n ml
and temper of this last communica
tion from the de facto government of
Mexico.
Ilcviev of On I rages.
"The government of tho United
Stated has viewed with deep concern
arid increasing disappolntiioni Mia
progress of the revolution In Mexico.
Continuous bloodshed and disorders
have marked its progress. For three
years the Mexici.n republic has been
torn with civil strife; the lives of the
Amuricsns mid other aliens have been
destroyed of rendered non-productive;
bandits huvo boon permitted to foam
at will through the territory contigu
ous of the Culled Slates, and to seize
without punishment, or without effec
tive attempt at punishment, the prop
erty of the Americans, while the lives
of citizens of the United States who
ventured to reim'iln in Mexican terri
tory or to return there to protect
their Interests have been taken, In
some cases barbarously, and the mur
derers have neither been apprehended
nor brought to justice. It would be
difficult to find in the annals of the
history of Mexico conditions more de
plorable than those which have ex
isted there during these recent years
of civil war.
ISonlor Conditions W orse.
"It would be tedious to recount in
stance after Instance, outrage after out.
rage, atrocity after atrocity to illustrate
the true nutans and extent of the wide
spread conditions of lawlessness and
violence which have prevailed. Dur
ing the past nine months in particular,
the frontier of the United States along
tho lower Uio Grange has ben thnwn
into a stale of constant apprehension
and turmoil because of frequent find
sudden Incursions Into American tor
ritory and depredations and murders
on American soil by Mexican bandits,
who have taken the lives and de
stroyed the property of American citi
zens, sometimes carrying American
eitizons across the interimtlonl boun
dary with the Itonty seized. The
American garrisons have been at
tacked at night, American soldiers
killed and their equipment and horses,
stolen, American ranches have been j
raided, property stolen and destroyed
and American trains wrecked and
plundered. The attacks on Urowns
ville, Red House ferry, l'rogreso poet
offiee and Las l'eladas, all occurring
during September lust, are typical.
In these uttacks on American terri
tory Carraucista adherents and even
Carranclsta soldiers took part in the
looting, burning and killing. Not only
were these murders characterized by
ruthless brutality, but uncivilized acts
of mutilation were perpetrated. Rep
resentations were made to General
Carranza and he was emphat
ically requested to stop there repre
hensible, artj In a section which he
hau long claimed to be under the com
plete domination of his authority.
RepicMiilatloiis Inn vailing,
"Notwithstanding these representa
tions and the promise of General Na
farette to prevent attacks along the
International boundary in the follow
ing month of October, a passenger
train wus wrecked by bandits and sev
eral persons killed, seven miles north
of rirownsvllle, and an attack was
made upon the United States troops
tit the same place several days later.
Since these attack. leaders of the
bandits, well known both to Mexican
civil and military authorities an well
as to the Ann rican officers, have been
enjoying with impunity the liberty of
the towns of northern Mexico. So
far has the Indifference of the de
facto government to these atrocities
gone that some of these leaders, as
I am advised, have received not only
the protection of that government
buti
encouragement and uid as well.
Depredations Numerous.
''Depredations upon American per
sons and property within Mexican!
Jurisdiction have been still more !ium-J
erous. This government has repeated-j
ly requested in the strongest terms
that the de facto government safe
guard the lives and homes of Ameri
can citizens and furnish the protection
Which international obligation Im
poses to American interests in tho
northern states of Tamaulipas, Nuevol,ul 11 ,s !, nnr m-iir nmii
' i ....
Leon. Coahuilu, Chihuahua und Son-
ora and in the stale: to the south.
For example,, on January 3, troops
were requested to punish the bands of
outlaws which looted tne t usl mining ui-h last year arc out or the city now.
property, SO miles west of Chihuahua, Itut the amount raised was not
but no effective results came from the' enough. Tho committees will see
request. During the following week jmuiiy more is-ople today ami there
the bandit Villa with his bund of about jiiould not be a single refusal, ami
200 men was operating without op-1 n,,,, people w ho subscribed less than
position between llublo end Santa ; t year should instantly cornvt their
Ysabel, a fact well known to Carranza ; subscriptions.
authorities. J TliM ,K llo iiuu. f,. ,. slightest fall-
The Kiinta, VsbIm-I Mussjicrc. j ing off. There Is not a business In this
"Meanwhile ft party of unfortunate .city Hint Is not far nioro proscroiis
Americans started by train from! than It was a year ago. To assist the
Chihuahua to visit tho Cusl mines, businessmen, lrcsltlcnl. Southard hus
after having received assurances from 'decided thut tlu-re shall bo no tr
the Carranza authorities, tn the statelnital this year and that the fair will
of Chihuahua, that the country was, be open only three nights of the
Special Leased Wire.)
safe and that a guard on the train
was not necessary. The Americans
held passports or safe conducts issued
by authorities of the de facto gov
ernment, On January 10, the train
won stopped by Villa bandits and eigh
teen of the American party were
stripped of their clothing and shot Inches,, troops crossed the frontier wlth
cnld blood, In what Is now known us j out. first obtaining the consent or per
the "Santa Vsabel massacre." Gen-1 mission of Hie de facto joivi rnment.
oral Carranza stated to, the agent of I ( ibvlously us immediate action alone
the department of state that he hnd'oould avail, there wax no opportunity
Issued orders for the Immediate pur-jto reach an agreement (other than of
suit, capture and punishment of those March 10-14, now repudiated by Gon
responslblo for this atrocious crlme,.ral Carranza) prior lo the entrain e
and appealed to this government und:f ,.,, ,ln .edition lnl .jPXiPO '
to the American people to consider i ,., ,,,,ii,to,i w:,. m i... ,.ff..,.iu-..
.U .11 CPi... 14 l I... Il
.,..... ol ..,, ,b !". uon;
uiong me iKiu iiiii, oere me massacre
occurred. Assurances were aiso given
by Mr. ArreUondo, presumable un
der Instructions from tin- de f-xcto
government, that the murderers would
be brought to justice and thut steps
would also be taken to remedy the
lawless conditions existing In the state
of Purangn. it is true that Villa,
Castro and l.opea were publicly de
clared to be outlaws and subject to
apprehension and execution, but as nature of the agreement that occu
far as kVinwn. only one single man pled the attention of General Carran
personally connected with the mass- za rather than the practical object
acre has been brought to justice by j w hich It was. to attain the number
Mexican authorities. Of limitations that could be Imposed
Villa Is I'liclieokcd. (upon the American forces to Impede
"Within a month after this bar-; t,H'lr l''n'-eHH rather than the ob-
hnroou .IUIIX.P ..f l,w,ff.,nl, .n..r. "Ui 'U' Ull,t C" 1,1 h t0 l'Vent
-"
leans, it was notorious that Villa was
operating within twenty miles of Cusl
huirinchlc tnd publicly tit a ted that his
purpose was to desiroy Annrican lives
and propel ty. Despite repeated and
insistent demand that military protec
tion should be furnished to Americans,
VJI.i still openly rallied on his opera
tions, constantly approaching closer
and closer to the border. He was not
Intercepted nor were his movements boundary.
impeded by troops of the de facto gov-j The Si-ott-Olimton Meeting,
eminent and no effectual attempts' "It may be mentioned here tnat,
were made to frustrate, his hostile Up-; notwithstanding the statement in your
signs ugulnsl'AiJieticanH. In fact, as note that "the American government
I am informed, while Villa and hits gave no answer to the note of the 1 2th
band were slowly moving toward the f April, this note was replied to on
American frontier In tho neighbor- April 14th, when the department In
hood of Columbus, S. M., not a single structcd Mr. Rod gem by telegraph to
Mexican soldier was seen In his vl- deliver this, government's answer to
clnlty. Yet the Mexican authorities General Carranza. Shortly lifter this
were fully cognizant of his movements, rP,,y the conferences between Gen
for on Murch t, as General Gavini ,.rals Seolt, F'mtton and Obrcgon be.
publicly- announced, he advised the ftt !,,, ,,Hnir whlrh ,hv
I American military uuthorltieti of the
outlaws upproacn lo ine imrcier
thut they might be prepared to pre- wlthdtawal ot American troops. As
vent him from crossing the boundary. ;an lmi,.tio of the alleegd bad faith
The Columbus Kld. of the Amerlcun government, you
"Villa's unhindered activities cut-'state that though General Scott do
minated In the unprovoked and cold- dared in this memorandum that the
blooded attack upon American sol- destruction and dispersion ' of the
diets and citizens la the town of Co-, Villa bond "had been accomplished, "
lumbus on the night of March , tho yet American forces are not yet with
details of which do not need rope- drawn from Mexico,
tion here in order to refresh your Misquotation Nailed,
memory with the hldeousness of the .., ((lly nP(.,,,w.v t rf,d the
ci one. Aiiei- uiui oe, ,B, urnnm uou
plundering, Villa and his bandits flee
lug south, passed In sight of the Car
ruueista military post at Casas Gram
des and no effort was made to stop
him by the officers and garrison of
the de facto government! stationed
there.
America's Hands l-'oroeil.
"In the face
of these depredations
not only on American lives and prop-,tilen lurrying on a vigorous pursuit ',. accompanied bv a specific warn
erty ou Mexican soil, but. on Anieri-! of Hurn HmtU numbers of the bandits 'ing that an attack on tho troops
can soldiers, citizens und homes on or i,lW(11)fl elements as may have es- ., lead to the gravest eonsequon
Amerlcau territory, the perpetrators rap(,d,' The context of your note was telegraphed to Mexico City
of which General Curranza was utiable Kvuf tht, m,,,,.,,,, ,hll, ,,. nUji.vt of' today -by lillwo Arredondo. Mexican
or possibly constiiercd inailvisaiile in
apprehend or to punish, the United
Slates had no recourse other than to
employ force to disperse the band of
Mexican outlaws who were with lu-
creasing boldness systematically raid-
ing across tho international boundan .;
he muurauders engaged in the at -
u
across u. bolder bv American eav-'
airy and subsequently, u.s soon km n1
sufficient force to cope with the band1
coiild be obtained, were pursued ill-;
to Mexico lit an effort to capture or,
destroy them. Without co-operation'
or assistance in the field on the jmrt
of the de facto government, despito
repeated requests by the United States,'
und without apparent, recognition on
jits part on the desirability of putting
an end to these systematic raids or of
punishing the chief perpetrators of tho
I crimes committed been use I hey men
laced the good relations of the. two
j countries, the American forces pnr-
sued the. lawless bands us far as 1'ar
j rtil, where the pursuit was halted by
the hostility of Mexicans, presumed to
The State Fair Drive Raises
.. .
bur money will
The drhe lor Mat,
continue toilay. The sum received
yesterday u, little more than SI V
THOI SM DOLI.AHS 1 giatiling,
h.
Some or tho subscribers gave more
Some of the subscribers ga,
Itliau lust year; many or them gac the
j sumo iinioiuils as last year: a lew gao
livs; several of the largest l outi-ibiit-I
be loyal to the de facto government,
who arrayed themselves on the Hide
of outlawry and became in effect the
protectors of Villa and his band. In
this manner and fur these reasons
have the American force entered
Mexican territory.
( arranH lutisMiscd to Help.
"Knowing fully the circumstances
set forth, the de facto government
cannot be blind to the necessity which
compelled this government to act and
jyet it has seen fit to recite groundless
'sentiments of hostility toward the ex
pedition and to Impute to this govern-
mom ulterior mouses for the con
tinued presence of American troops
I on ;ni'icuii sou. 11 is cniircgd hum
I 1
subsequent events and correspondence
i,.,..,- a,.,,,,,,,-!!.,,!
e ilcmonstrntetl to the satisfaction
of this government that General Car
ranza would not have entered into any
agreement providing for an effective
plan fi r the capture and destruction
of the Villa bunds.
I'li'H ( hicf lib ked Kntontc.
"While tho American troops were
moving rapidly southward In pursuit
of the raiders. It was the form and
thu
escape of the outlaws. It was
General Carranza who suspended
through your note of April 11! utt dis
cussions and negotiations for an agree,
merit along the lines of the protocols
between the Cnlted States snd Mex
ico Concluded (lining the period of
1RS2-1S90, under which the two eoun.
tries had so successfully restored
peaceful conditions on their common
Bign,.d n May 3 it protest of n n.em-
a,.inf,lm, llH ;,.,,.,,.,.,.,,,,,
,,,,,.,..,,,. .leh lu in (h.
Kngllsh
language,
to ascertain that this Is
clearly a misstatement, for the mem
orandum ."tales that "the
American
punitive expedition army forces have
destroyed or dispersed many of the
I.iwlcrs element of bandits or have
jdrlven them far Into the interior "f pltig, conveying president Wilson's re
'the republic of Mexico' and further i wtinn r,t thi ili.nn, nl for wllhdraw-
that the United Slates' forces werei'nr rlnnn ,.l,itera from Mo--
the expedition being admittedly ar-
complished, Ibo l ulled States had
agreed in the memorandum tu begin ,
the withdrawal of American forces, i
: lint jwtiiiillv nn n..,.i-ii I nl at ,h,, nuciir.
an,;e(, , Ml,x!,.ull government that!
.lr ,1(,,s w,,,.p th(, ,.M.Ill
))f,. , lengthened.
fo extent that they will be
.. .
'Clip in piceill liii.v oisoiueis OCCHI-
ring In Mexico that would In any way
endanger American,! territory' an
that they 'would continue lo diligently 1
pursue, capture or destroy any law-;
less band of bandits thai may still
exist or hereafter exist in Hie northern :
part of Mexico and that. It would
make a 'proper disposition of such
of Its forces
may be necessary to
prevent the possibility of inWlHlon of
American territory from Mexico.' It
vtaa because of these assurances nnd
'because of General Scott's confidence
that, they would be carried out that
he slated in the memorandum that the j1'"1"1 copies were sent to all embas
Amerlciiu forces would be 'Kriid. tally ;sl a"U legations for their informa
('tiiilluMl on Vnum 'ta.
About $6,000 In Few Hours;?
.. . . . , . i
.Tk, ll.c other nlgl'N to be given to I
amii-cmonts down town, thus giving
tbc mci'iiiiinlH the aihantage of three
nights of trade when thousands of vis
itors will be In tin- (It. v.
Last Jcur each night contributed
heavily to the receipts of tho fair.
j'liils year tlx) entrance charges, for the
jtlireo closed nights must, be maile up
,v the eltieiis of Albuquerque, if tho
fair Is to bo on ns big a scale a it was
last year.
From the isfiplo of Albiiqiicrquo
nnd from Kcrnalillo county, the state
fnfr must hae at. least I'H-TKKX
TIIOI SWD DOI.LAKS, and (he men
who have been appointed i,, raise the
money am determined not to let up In
tln-lr efforts until that sum Is In sight.
The drive will Im on again today.
ltiislocsM men. without Ibo slightest
Uiojk- of benefitting thcinsidves, cvs'pt
as tho city rs U'liefltted, are giving
their time to the work.
Do It for Albuquerque! Do it
Now Mexico!
for,
E
I
Note Sternly Scoring First
Chief's Entire Course Is on
Its Way to Southern Re
public, '3RAVEST CONSEQUENCES'
THREATENED BY LANSING
Secretary of State Says Fail
ure to Fulfill Obligations or
Persist in Menace Will Be
Fatal,
AMKRICVXS AND C.YHllANZA
Titxpso. vi;kgl.oi mtEAK
.
Columbus, X. M., June 20.
Carranclsta troops and sobllers of
V Gen. J. J. Pershing's expediii-
unary command bomb, of .an.l-
v quipa ale on the vu',J of hoiCil-
lties, accorulng to reports lrom
e the field tonight., A wirclcaa uw-
patch from Col. V. C. Cabell,
'5- General Pershing's chief of staff,
i" said that thtultlude of the Cur-
ranclsias was uch that Anieri-
can motor truck supply trains
r are In danger of being fired
l upon.
- Tho Carranclstas arc said to
have mounted artillery In posl-
Hons menacing
the Americans,
lndtcuted that
and dispatches
with the two commands In close
proximity tho danger of a clash
Is Increasing, ' ; ;
Persistent rumors were, cur
rent hero tonight that General
Vershlnp lias split his conmind
into threo columns, each pre-
pared to move in the event ol 4
hostilities, while others gnld that
truck trains had beon fired upon.
However, no confirmation of
the reports could be obtained at
military headquarters here.
1ST MO.MNO JOURNAL lL klASIO !
Washington, Juno 20. The Issue
of war or peace with Mexico hung
in tho balance tonight, awaiting Gen
eral Carrnnza's decision us to tho
rourse h will ntirsue. Officials here
tfeiipved that forty-eight hour, might
,.rnr understanding of what
tn fUtm has in store.
a ni,i ui.,.i in- Keereinre Un.
ambassador-designate. In plain terms
It accuses General Carranza of hnv-
ing brought matters to the verge of
war by open hostility toward tho
United States, and failure to safe
guard even the lives of Americans ill
Mexico or on the border from the
lawless elements along his conntry-
imon. ,
' Imputations Hcsentetl.
In sternest terms the note re
pudiate and resents imputations of
bad faith and ulterior motives
brought against the Washington gov
ernment In the Mexican communica
tion to which it is a reply. ' Ocnoral
Carranzu Is Informed in so many
wards, thut protection of its own I or-
ders is the only object sought by lh
United States and Is told that object
'will he ' pursued whatever the on
soquenccH inuy be.
When the note had been handed
to Mr. Arredondo for delivery t bis
tion, A summary was telephoned
to Special Agent Kodgers In
MeVU O
City that he might windy
counsel
Americans resident there.
Arranges for llefiigoo Train.
Mr. Kodgers reported during tho
-
that he had nrrunged for a refu
train to carry Americans and
lot her foreigners from Mexico City to
Vera Crirj. He expects to seo It
,,wtml.pi,u. ,,, ,,.. rmnln Bt . iu
post himself unless a declaration of
ws.:- or a deliberate act of wnr by
I the de facto government should
jmake It necessary for hltn to leuve.
I While thu United States awaits
jCarranza's next move steps to make
jthe border secure against whatever
may come are going steadily ahead,
(iuard Mobilization Brisk.
Mobilization of the national guards
men Is proceeding expeditiously in
all states, and plans for sending some
of them southward In response to n
reouest from General Funston are
under way. Secretary Lansing de
scribed the policy or the government
as being founded only on a rrsolve
to protect the border. That policy
has not been changed, he said, and
no military step that has been taken
has had any other object. General
Carranza was officially Informed of
this in the note which went for-
ward today.
To carry out bis share In the pol-
c
OR IR
OESTION THA
ONLY CARRANZA
CAN DETERMINE
tv7
3 i
