THE HARTFORD HERALD
Subscription $1 Per Year, in Advance.
"I tonn, tht tftrald of i Xoiiy World, tfci SiMofJII .Vatioi Limbering at Mf Back."
-dZ- Kinds Job Printing Neatly Executed.
4d YEAR.
HARTFORD, KY., WEDNESDAY, JUNE 21, 1910.
NO. 25
P GALLED FOR
E
Entire National Guard
Ordered Out.
AB0UT10D.000MEN EXPECTED
To Answer Summons President
Issues Orders After Confer-
enceWithWar Officials.
INVASION NOT NOW INTENDED
Washington, June 18. Virtually
the entire mobile strength of the
National Guard of all States and the
District of Columbia was ordered
mustered Into the Federal service
to-night by President Wilson. About
100,000 men arc expected to respond
to the call. They will be mobilized
Immediately for such service on the
Mexican border as may later be as
signed to them.
Gen. Frederick Funston, com
manding the border forces, will des
ignate the time and place for move
ments of guardsmen to the Interna
tional line as the occasion shall re
quire. In announcing the orders, Secre
tary Uaker said the State forces
would be be employed only to guard
the border and that no additional
troop movements 'Into Mexico were
contemplated except is pursuit of
raiders.
" Simultaneously with the National
Guard call, Secretary Daniels, of the
Navy Department, ordered addition
al war vessels to Mexican waters on
both coasts to safeguard American
lives.
Within the last two weeks ten
sion has been increasing steadjily.
The crisis presented by Gen. Carran
za's note demanding the recall of
Gen". Pershing's expeditionary force
has been followed by a virtual ulti
matum served on the American offi
cer by Gen. Trevlno, the Mexican
commander in Chihuahua.
Mobilization of the national
guardsmen to support Gen. Fun
ston's line will pave the way for re
leasing some 30,000 regulars for Im
mediate service In Mexico in the
event of open hostilities with the
Caifcanza Government. The guards
men themselves could not be used
beyond the line without authority of
Congress and until they had volun
teered for that duty, as they are
al?d" out under the old militia law.
The new law which would make
them available for any duty under
the Federal Government goes Into
effect July 1.
The entire mobile regular army In
the United States, several provision
al regiments of regular coast artil
lery serving as infantry and the Na
tional Guard of Texas, New Mexico
and Arizona now are on the border
or in Mexico. Definite figures have
never neen maae puuuc, ui n is
understood Gen. Funston has about
40,000 regulars and probably 5,000
or more guardsmen of whom 10,000
regulars are with Gen. Pershing or
scattered along his line of commu
nications from Namlqulpa, Mexico,
to Columbus, N. M.
Telegrams calling for the, militia
were sent to the Governors of all
States, except the three whose
guardsmen already have been mus
tered In, after an all-day conference
at the War Department, attended by
Secretary Bakor, MaJ. Gen. Scott,
Chief of the Mobile Army, and Brig.
Gen. Mills, Chief of the Militia Di
vision. General Staff Brig. Gen. Mc
Combs, president of tho Army War
College, also was consulted.
Kentucky Hoys Going.
Frankfort, Ky., June 18. Tho
entire Kentucky National Guard,
three regiments of Infantry,
E
SERVIG
ffleld hospital, ambulance company
: and signal corps have been ordered
mobilized by President Wilson.
News of the probable call appar
ently reached throughout the State,
for telegrams and telephone mes
sagejvbegau to come Into Gen. Ellis,
askiinj for information and request
ing enlistment blanks. First Regi
ment officers at Louisville asked for
l,000,lanks.
If tne guard is required to mobil
ize with the peace strength of six-
..fl ,,,n. most of thi companies '
vlll have to be recrultea up to that
strength, os forty has been the mln-j
lmum heretofore. Th, guard kaJ
not been reorganized uader the new
regulations, which probably will be
done at the mobilization camp when
they will be mustered Into the Fed
oral service.
Hartford Hoys Cnlleil.
Lieut. Clarence B. Shown, of
Company H, Hartford's contingent
of tho Kentucky National Guard, re
celved the following telegram Mon
day from Capt. J. M. DeWeese,
dated at Louisville:
"Call any minute Co men. Get
busy. Meet Tuesday."
The following is the roster of
Company H, our local militia:
Capt. James M. DeWeeso, First
Lieut. Clarence B. Shown, Sergeants
Wm. C. LUes, Andrew K. Anderson,
Walter D. Gray, Estill L. Harnett,
Marvin Hoover; Corporals Charlie
M. Hawkins, Ben W. Blair, Charles
F. Leisure, Forrest Hudson, Otis
Clark; Cook, Letcher D. Bennett;
Musician, Kit Logsdon; Privates Ira
Allen, Plrtle Arnold, -Hadcn Brown,
Roseo S. Cnrson, Otis Colburn, Jame3
Daffron, Hobart P. Daugherty, John
W. Ferguson, Chester D. Foster,
Howard Glenn, John J. Glenn, Ollie
Gray, Tom J. Hester, Wm. B. Hol
brook, Lyman Hunt, Lum S. Igle-
heart, Charles Wk Johnson, Rollie
Johnson, Gilmore Keown, Charles
King, Arvln Leisure, Wm. M. Lon
don, Oscar L. McDanlel, Cleo C. Mil
ler, Arthur Mlnton, Albert Morris,
Herman Morris, Pete Norman, Row
an Raley, Fletcher Owen, Alva
Peach, Everctte Peach, Jas. E.
Peach, Alton Paris, Wnva St.
Clair, Shelby Stevens, Charles H.
Tanner, Willie Wakeland, Omar T.
Wallace, Leslie White, Stoy H.
White. Ben H. Whltehouse, Mose
Wilson, Edmund R. Wlmsatt, Willis
Allen, Alva C. Chandler, Clarence
M. Gray, Nicholas B. Hazelrlg,
Charles B. Hurt, Eura W. Jones.
Columbus W. Vineyard, Claude
Duke, Jesse Harris.
Recruits aro coming into the local
armory from all parts of the coun
ty. It Is understood that the ser
vice of the guardsmen will bo volun
tary on their part after they have
complied with the orders of the
Government to assemble at the arm
ory. From present indications at
least 8 out of every ten will volun
teer for the Federal service. The
Company will probably go Into
camp at Hartford for four or five
day?, during which time they expect
to be recruited to tho war limit, af
ter which they will entrain for the
State mobilization camp, either at
Earllngton or Fort Thomas, the lat
ter opposite Cincinnati, O.
WAR WITH MEXICO
Hinges On Reception Of Note From
WiKon Flatly Refusing Cur-
rnnza's Demands,
Washington, June 19. Upon Gen.
Carranza's reception of a stern re
fusal to heed his demands for recall
of American troops from Mexico,
hinges the question of a Mexican
war, in the opinion of President
Wilson's close advisers. They were
prepared for the possibility of open
hostilities after the note, which will
be sent forward to-morrow, has
reached Carranza's hands.
While the diplomatic steps were
In progress to-day tho nation was
stirring throughout its width and
breadth with the movement of na
tional guardsmen mobilizing to
guard the border. At least 100,000,
and ppsslbly a far greater number,
were preparing for active service un
der President Wilson's call. For the
present their mission will be purely
one of defense, but should war come
they will be ready also for that. No
marching orders for the now forces
had gone out to-night. They will
not be assigned for border duty until
mustered into the Federal service.
Even when mobilization Is com
pleted only such units will be order
ed South as Gen. Funston desires to
till the gaps In his 1,800-mile guard
line. Tho remainder will rest on
their arms at the Stato mobilization
camps for the present, awaiting the
turn of events.
...
Propose Increase Of Whlows
Pension.
Washington, June 10. Pensions
of not less than $20. a month for all
Civil War widows would be provided
by a bill passed to-day by the House.
Aggregate expenditures of $9,000,-
000 are contemplated. The bill
would restore to their former pen-
alnnnhln Rtnttin wlilnwtt nf Civil Wnr
i.iora Hmnno.i hmn nf r.mnf.
riag0, but now divorced or again
Widowed. I
'"
For eUr Job prtothvf Th HcraM
tffe, T" -ape.
Dw"tV d w ,?B
wmrmtm m 4 i bm imFdm&mjw
ymmm-y-J'i j - , mmnS
w8rF fmt'my
Mffimm&sjz -; wjjTMtmm
jimIb"'-. i ' :-mm:mr
iBKFJKlV ; L , s wt4?w;,r
hBEkJBkMI SfaSmBsf rTBwKfiiin$&&iH&2EHBHHI
171 -.-- .J71 la c. .i1
WILSON Hi MARSHALL ARE NAMED
AI SI. LOUIS
The Great Leaders Of Democracy Were Nominated
By Acclamation.
. WILLIAM J. BRYAN LINES
President Wilson and Vice President Marshall were nominated by ac
clamation Thursday night by the Democratic national convention at St.
Louis, the ticket being completed four minute before Friday.
There was never any doubt of President Wilson's nomination, but
there was a possibility that some VI co Presidential booms might be
brought out In opposition to Vice President Marshall. They melted
away, however, when the convention got In session, and as soon as the
President's nomination had been made bj",n roaring acclamation, Sena
tor Kern, cast aside his long prepared. sUafch and simply declared:
"I nominate Thomas Riley Marshall, of Indiana, for Vice President."
To the President's nomination there was only one dissenting vote, Rob
ert Emmett Burke, of Illinois, who came to the convention announcing
he was opposed to the President. His vote technically made the Presi
dent's nomination 1091 to 1.
The convention was called to order at 9:1." o'clock by Chairman
James. The large building was packed from pit to dome, every availa
ble seat being taken, and thousands standing. The announcement was
made that the convention would not adjourn until all nominations had
been made and all business before the convention disposed of.
Senator Thompson, of Kansas, moved the suspension of the rules to
permit William Jennings Bryan to address the convention. The motion
carried, and Mr. Bryan was escorted to the stand, He was given a tre
mendous ovation by the delegates and the spectators. He made a very
eloquent speech, praising President Wilson and declaring ho would
work for the success of the ticket. His speech was Interrupted time
and again by applause as he drove home telling points.
The nominations for President began at 10:14. Alabama yielded to
New Jersey, and John W. Wescott arose amid a storm of applause. He
placed In' nomination Woodrow Wilson. His speech was one of the most
eloquent ever heard In a convention. At the close when lie meutloned
tho name of Wilson there was a great outburst of applause that could
not be controlled. Tho demonstration was participated in by tho dele
gates nnd spectators alike. Former Governor Harmon, of Ohio, second
ed the nomination of Wilson, as did Gov. Stuart, of Virginia. The
nomination was then made by ncclamatkm.
The nomination of Thomas Marshall, of Indiana, for Vice President
by Senator Kern, of Indiana, quickly followed.
ACTING GOVERNOR USES
PABOON POWER FREELY
Nine Men Are Set Free and
Two Are Restored To
Citizenship.
Frankfort, Ky June 17. Morton
T. WUholt, of Loulsvlllo, convicted
in July, 19 IS, on tho charga of
shooting and wounding and sentenc
ed to the penitentiary for one year,
was pardoned by Acting Gov. Combs,
WUholt has been a trusty at the
penitentiary, acting as chauffeur for
Warden. Wells.
Harry Blankenshlp.'of Pike comi
ty, convicted for manslaughter and
given a two to twenty-one years'
penitentiary senteuce, was pardoned.
Blankenship was charged with kill
ing Albert Worford, who was em
ployed by him to sell produce from
his farm at a mine located near. J.
M. Robertson, Circuit Judge of Pike
county, recomnvent'ld the (Pardon.
Nino of the jurors sitting in the
case also joined in the request .for
' the pardon.
Other pardons granted were:
"owaru &impson. oi rayeue county,
convicted at tho January term, 191C,
for manslaughter and given a twelve
years' penitentiary sentence; Thorn-
" Murray, Fayette county, convicted
' '
10 LEAO DEMOCRATS
UP WITH THE OTHER LEADERS
on the charge of robbery and sent
to the penitentiary for two years;
Owen Stephens, convicted of the
same offense and given the same
punishment.
Chester Brldwell, of Webster, con
victed for assault on a girl under 1G
years old; and given an c!gh'(en
months penitentiary sentence, was
pardoned.
Judge C. E. Booe, of this city,
convicted defaulting clerk In tho
Auditor's office, was pardoned. He
presented petitions from thirty-seven
counties. Ho was convicted of tak
ing $40,000 belonging to the State,
but has been on parole for four
years.
Pierce Gabbard, of Breathitt coun
ty, and Nelson Durch, of Fayette
county, both serving sentences for
manslaighter, wero pardoned.
Thomas B. Blantln, of Harlan
county and. Nelson Messer, of Fay
ette county, who served terms for
manslaughter, wero restored to cit
izenship. "AMERICA OVER ALL" CRY
THE GERMAN' CATHOI.K S
Racine, Wis., June 17. "America
over all the world." This is the
motto adopted by the German Cath
olic Societies of Wisconsin, at tho
closing session ot tho convention
bero, The declaration of prlnclplo
as passed by the convention follows:
"Wo declare our love aad fidelity, .
as well as unswerving loyalty to
these United States and their insti
tutions, the land In which many of
us were born, and to which the oth
er members of our society have
wholeheartedly nnd unreserved!
sworn allegiance, and to which oath
they have been, arc and will be truo.
Although of German exti action, still
our motto Is "Amerlka ueber nlles,
ueber nlles In der welt" (America
over all, over all in the world).
"We nfllrm our loyalty to our
glorious Union, but re3ent every
malicious attack on our rights as
citizens as unjust nnd undeserved,
and stand for strict neutrality, with
out preference for any of the war
llng nations."
TWO VICE PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES NEIGHBORS
Indianapolis, Ind., June 19. For
the first time In tho history of Amer
ican politics the candidates for the "rownsville, Tex., June IT. Car
Vice Presidency of both the Demo- ( ra,,za Consul J. Z. Garza, stationed
cratlc and Republican parties arc,llere' silvered early to-night Gett
from the same city, Indianapolis. , ral AlfrL'(1 Rlcaut's ultimatum to
Vice President Marshall, who vns
Marshall, who v as .
renominated by acclamation at the
St. Louis convention, and Charles
Warren Fairbanks, who was named
by the Chicago convention, despite
their differences politically, are
warm pergonal friends of long stand
ing. Among the first to congratu
late Mr. Fairbanks on his nomina
tion was Mr. Marshall, and the Re
publican nominee sent Ills congrat
ulations to the Vice President.
Another coincidence Is the fact are en rol,tL' t0 amnjos. the point
that both have held the office for.0 crossIB of a squadron of the
which they aie now candidates, Mr.Thlrd CavaIr.v illt0 -Mexico to re-en-Fairbanks
having been Vice Presl-, force those a'rtaib- sent in.
Fairbanks having been Vice Presl -
dent from 1901 to 190S, when Col.
Roosevelt was President.
Mr. Fairbanks has been a resident
of Indianapolis since the early 70's,
while Mr. Marshall did not come to
Indianapolis until he became Gover
nor in 190S. Ho formerly lived at
Columbia City, Ind. The homes of
the two men here are only a few ,
blocks apart.
Both Mr. Fairbanks and Mr. Mar-1
shall are ready to enter upon their i
campaigns as soon as they have been
officially -liotlned of their nonilna- j
tions. The dates for the notillca-l
tions have not yet been tlxed.
HUNG ,IURV IN ADK1NS
TRIAL AT HAWESVIU.E,
I
Hawesvllle, Ky., June 17. Cir
cuit Court closed here to-day after a
six-days session, the longest term
held for many years. E. B. Adklns
wns irlwn n honlenco nf iwn vrars In
the penitentiary on the charge of
forgery and Roy Pryor received the,
same sentence for housebreaking.
Until nlenilpil inilltv i
ChK-f interest centered In the trial i
of the $.",000 damage suit of Mrs.
Kate Adklns against Lou Adklns for
the shooting to death of her hus
band, Frank Adklns, son of Lon, on
a Sunday afternoon last June at the
father's home near here. The wid
ow and her five small children were
within the bar during the trial.
The jury was uuable to agree on
a verdict and were discharged at C
o'clock by Judge Slack.
RABIES VERY COSTLY river to a point near Matatnoro3.
FARMER LOSES HEAVILY Major Andeison Is sticking to the
trail of tho bandits in spite of the
Paris, Ky., June 1C A mad dos imminent danger of attack by Car
caused a heavy loss to Volney For- ranzista soldiers from the Matamo
guson, a farmer, living near Ceiiior- rs Karrlson.
vllle, this tounty. A number ot an-1 Brigadier General James Parker,
inials wnr? bitten and were coiultK'.l
until It could be determined wuetli
er they should bo killed. Yesterday
they will develop symptoms of ra
bies and wero destroyed. Among the
animals killed v. ere a $300 horse, a
rne cow, calf, drjf and two cats.
Harry Splnks Ferguson, 3-)v:ir
old grandson of Mr. Ferguson, was
scratched by a pup which had bei'ii
exposed to tho mad dog and the lit-'
tlo fellow Is being treated with anti
toxin. So far he shows no Infect'on.
Tho "Wlilto FoIkV Party.
Coliseum, St. Louis, June 10.
Congressman Heflln amused the
crowd with a story.
"An old negro In Washington the
other day," said he, "asked: 'Who
did tho Republicans nominate?'
Mr. Hughes,' ho was told
" 'Yas se'r, said the negro, 'Who
does you suppose de white folks l're "" the past week adjournsd
will nominate? " yesterday afternoon after having rw-
The Southern delegates led the , turned a nutnbej- of Indictments,
roars ot laughter. among them being one against Coun-
- ty Judge M. P. Smith and one
Tlu recent ruling of the Court of against Tom Harden, a Dnmocratlo
Appeals holding that a second good worker, In connection with the purs
roads bond Issue In Bell county Is ing of last fall's registration, when
invalid may halt road construction the names of a number of negroes
in that countj, as ouly enough of wero stricken from tho registration
the first road loud Issue Is left to
meet current labor bills.
WAR Willi MEXICO
AT
Punitive Force Crosses,
Chasing Bandits.
umm issues uq ira
Order To Resist Any Further
Pursuit Across Line View
ed Seriously.
THE RESULT OP ANOTHER RAID
l,u"eral James raiKor, iirowiirvillv
commander, that unless the Ander
son punitive expedition was with
drawn an attack would be made by
Carrana troops. Immediately af
terward Coiibiil Garza closed the
Consulate and moved to Matamoro1?.
Additional United States truop3(
Including a portion of the Twenly-
eighth Infantry and the remainder
' of the Third Cavalry, under com
mand of Colonel A. P. Blocksom,
1 , lUB'
Kieen
i gIrls ,0"ni
nunureu men, boys and
ight patrolled the streets of
Matamoros, bearing arms that had
been distributed by General Rlcaut.
"Anticipates FIkIiHiiij."
Washington, June 17. Although
the War Department had no teport
to-night on developments beyond
the border at Brownsville, a dis
patch came through from General
Funston telling of -the raid of 30
bandits near San Benito, Texas, and
of the crossing of troops Into Mexico
to pursue the raiders.
General Funston added: "I an
ticipate lighting."
After a conference to-night with
President Wilson, Secretary Baker
said he had ordered no additional
troops to the border and that Gen
eral Pershing had asked for no re
enforcements. After he left the White Housa
Secretary Baker went intp confer
ence with Major General Scott,
Chlef of StafT' at the M"ar Depart.
nient, and later Major General Bliss.
Assistant Chief of Staff, and Briga
dier General Mills, Chief of the Mi-
m,a UIvlsion' we summoned. The
presence of General Mills was taken
as confirmation that one of the first
steps to meet the threatened clash
would be a mobilization of more Na
tional Guardsmen at the border.
Pui'.MiiiiK Outlaw-.
San Antonio, Tex., June 17. A
force of 3."i0 troopers of the Third
Cavalry, under command of Major
Edward Anderson, have pursued
Mexican bandits across the Rio
Grande at Naranjos and up the
in command of the Brownsville sec
tion of the border guard, notified
Mexican Consul Garza -t Browns
viire late this afternoon that the In
ternational boundary had been
crossed. Garza replied with expres
sions of regret and apprehension
that this now Invasion of Mexican
soil would lead to a clash with
troops of the do facto Government.
Before the arrival of Major New
man's squadron, Troop II, under
Lieutenant A. D. Newman, overtook
a part of the bandits below the river
and engaged them In n runnltig
fight. So fur as Is known, either nt
Brownsville or here, no 0119 was kill
ed on either side und no American
was wounded.
County Judge Liilictoil.
Princeton, Ky Juno 17. Tho
Brand Jury which has been In session
books. Judge Smith Is charged with
malfeasance.
SEEMS
HAND
