MARKETS
WEATHER
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
June 14, 27..04.
ARIZONA Generally
fair.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 19, NO. 21.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, JUNE 21, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
PEACE JJI. HANGS
L WORD GOES
ins
BATTLE PERSHING FORCES
Carranzbta Artillery Mounted
Cn Slopes Menacing Supply"
Trains; Two Armies Are
Close Together
HOSTILITIES
AWAITED HOURLY
Expedition Is Reported Divid
ed Into Three Flying Col
umns To Strike In Any Di
rection (By Review Leased Wire.)
COLUMBUS, N. M., June 20.
Carranzista troops and soldiers of
General J. J. Pershing's expedi
tionary command south of Nami-
quipa are on the verge of hostili
ties, according to reports from
the field tonight A wireless dis
patch from Colonel D. C Cabell,
General Pershing's chief of staff,
said that the attitude of the Car
ranzistas was such that Ameri
can motor truck supply trains
are in danger of being fired upon.
The Carranzistas are said t'o have
mounted artillery in positions -menacing
the Americans and the dis
patch indicated that with the two
commands in close proximity the dan
ger of a clash is increasing.
Persistent rumors were current
here tonight that General Pershing
has split his command into three col-1
. . . . .
uiiius, each prepared 10 move m iut
event of hostilities, while others said
that truck trains had been fired upon.
However, no confirmation Tf the re-
ports cculd be obtained militaryj
headquarters here.
GERMAN BANKER
OF MEXICO CITY -HELDAT
EL PASO
Charges Of Violating U. S.
Neutrality Expected To
Spring Startling Develop
ments Today
(By Review Leased Wire.)
EL. PASO. Tex., June 20. Fredrick
Griese. a German banker from Mexico
City, is under detention by agents of
the department of justice here today
charged with violating the United
States neutrality laws. Griese was
prevented last night from crossing
into Mexico.
E. B. Stone, who is in charge of
the investigation of Griese's alleged
activities, held the banker incommu
nicado tonight an devery effort was
made to prevent any inkling of the
exact allegation against him being
made public.
It was said that the investigation
would he resumed tomorrow and it
was intimated that important devel
opments might be expected.
Max Weber, German consul in
Juarez, at first denied all knowledge
of Griese and his case, but later ad
mitted that he had heard of a Ger
man banker in Mexico City bearing
that name.
Numerous reports of the activities
of foreign agents in Mexico have
reached the border in recent months
but have lacked confirmation.
WASHINGTON, June 20.-i-Although
Frederick Griese. the Mexico City
banker arrested in El Paso has been
under surveillance of department of
justice agents for several weeks, de
tails of the investigation have been
left to the department's agents on thd
border and are unknown to officials
here. It w-as said tonight that a full
report was expected tomorrow and
that only the fact of Griese's arrest
lias been reported thus far.
NEW YORK GUARDS
READY TO ENTRAIN.
(Br Review Leased Wire)
NEW YORK. June 20. Thousands
.if New York City's national guards
men slept tonitht at their armories
where they will remain until they are
ordered to entrain for Camp Whit
man, at Beekman. Nearly all com
manders announced that they are
ready to move. Today s.)res of em
ployers announced that guardsmen in
their employ would receive full pay
while in the government service. The
Merchants' Association adapted resolu
tiotis calling all members to keepjochoa interfered and placed the of-
their employes tin the payroll while fending officer under guard.
in active unitary service. United States Consul L. llostetter
30,000 GUARDS
START FOR
BORDER
TODAY
Seventy Thousand Soldiers
Will Be On Rio Grande
Within a Week; More Will
Follow
! 60,000 MORE MAY '
BE CALLED IN WEEK
Force Will Permit Operations
On Extensive Scale In Mex
ico, With Protection For
Border
(By Review Leased Wire.)
SAN ANTONIO. Texas, June 20.
Facing Carranza's defiant army in
Northern Mexico there will be sta
tioned along the Rio Grande within a
week or ten days an American force
that will total, it was stated today.
almost 70,000 men.
General Funston has. repuesjed the
war dtpartment to send him as nuick
ly as possible a large part of the na
tional guardsmen and advices received j
late today indicated that entraining I
of the first troops would be begun to-!
morrow, ' i
As fast as they arrive in the south 1
hey will be sent to the stations ;
chosen. A part will be brought to
San Antonio and held here as a re-
serve nut large nart of them will
be within sight of Mexico when they '
get off the trains. I
General Funston did not announce 1
how- many he had asked for or the j
stations to which they would be only
tKat he expects more than a division, j
Secretary Lansing's note to Cnrrn-1
za s minister of foreign affairs was
Funston i
read carefully by General
and members of his staff.
Already 40000 There. '
me uuiun hiiiit inline mi 1 1 easing iiuiuuem in suiriuou n-.u- pjt(,, readiness for eventualities t
of troops of the regular establishment gees from the mining districts south !PVPI7 j,0jnf wn'Pre tne tirea( o( the de
and the militiamen of Texas, New ; of the international line and repeated j far((; Kol(!iers xists pye" DreI)ara
Mexico and Arizona, comprises more assurances of both Mexican and Amer- (. h . ' nr,.tion
bn 40.000. I ican officials that law abiding citizens !of a"" lives nd prot.em
The army already patrolling the in-! of the opposite nationality need fear; nii'litarv ,.irt:iPS it js ' reprt fhlt
ternationa. line is prepared to roaht J no hann marked deve.opn.ents ,n this Arn defense 'Ml'Zt the
any accression the Mexican govern- i vicinity during the da '.,iiPh,Mt vi,n ,,mi i.i h ,
ment forces might make but it was
determined some time ago that it was
not bin- enough to guard the lone line
from Brownsville to the Pacific and
army officers never have regarded it
as strong enough to undertake an in
vation in force.
For Big Operations.
uenerai runsioiiu reuuesi ior me
guardsmen was for a number suffl-
cient to give adequate protection to
the border. Officers at this head-
quarters also felt that with this force
operations in , Mexico on a big scalf'
might be undertaken but in the event
of Intervention or any other action
making necessary a general forward
movement into Mexico, General Funs
ton explained that he would ask im
mediately for the 100.000 guardsmen i
called to service this week. !
(Continued on page two)
GERMAN NEARLY
iRu RAuiru I airf Wlr I
(By Review ueasea wire.i
NOG ALES. Ari.. June 20.Adolph ;
r w h. c nT, w-h rr iveH here
E2.7
fugees fron, Hern.osillo and other
points, nearly lost his life in I Col-of
r . f I '
Mrada Saturday at the hands of a
mob incited by a Carranzlsta ofTicer.
m TED
wno is saia to nave oeen arresieu. ; m- mnuei. ii niierti-.i iii.h -- .
Schauer at first refusing to con- main. A special guard accompanying ! Strategists here point out the which have been stationed In Cuch.ita. here .unless It portends further -north
firm reports brought bv refugees ad- our car was under orders to shoot s..l. r.id militarv position of General thirty five miles south of Douglas. ; ward advance by the Mexicans and
milled late todav that's noose had anvbodv vli'i attempted to molest ns" Pershins's forces at Naminuipa. were reported to Jiave m'.ned north desire to remove Mexican non corn
been placed -at-jiind his neck and an "At Magdalena the guard peremptor- Southst of this point is the Santa, sis miles to Fronteras. wbere the in- hatants from the possible danger r.one
....... 1 t I I h h. . ft ten lion m n f rllA , I A n tint ! t I l I'U TJ U'tfflf
attempt was being made to hang him
when officers of the staff of General ,
PERSHING TROOFER
CAPTURED, RELEASED
COIXLNIA IH'ULAX. Clil.
June 20. (via wireless to Cli
lumbus. X. M.,) An Ameri
can soldier was captured to
day by Carranzistas of the
Casas Grandes garrison and
held prisoner several hours.
He was released only when
General J. J. Pershing, expedi
tionary commander, sent a de
mand in wJiicli he warned the
Mexican commander that if
the soldier was held an hour
longer . American troops
would attack the town.
The soldier, an enlisted
man of the Twenty-Fourth In
fantry, a negro regiment,
straggled from his command
which was marching north
toward Duhlan, and was cap
tured by a small detachment
of Mexicans. Taken to the
cuartel. he was divested of
his arnu and questioned close
ly as to the strength and po
sitions of the American artil
lery. However, the Carran
za commander complied with
General Pershing's demand
immediately.
The situation here tonight
while unusually tense, re
mained quiet.
at cakasea
Additional Details Of Rioting
In Sonora Mining Center
" Full Of Blood Curdling
Stories
MEXICANS JOYR1DE
WITH U. S. AUTOS
Prove Poor Pilot3 And
Give
Up Machines. Douglas
Hears All Kinds Of Rumors
Of Mexican Resistance
(By Review Leased Wirc'i
DOUGLAS, June 20. Quiet prepar-
I"?"8 on,.tlle. Pa" of "l1 u,e
, AlUMUil. UlSiriCl Ul lilt? I Illlcu oimcn
J border patrol to prepare for any pos-
sible developments, the at rival of in
ra,A rT t li nlltut'jnitmv ruullirou 11 :
the Kitnntion here was the faltll ex-
nresseH alnu.Kt iinanininusl v bv Amer-'
icans in the promised protection to '
foreign residents of Sonora by Gener- i
al P. Klias Calles, commander of thei
, Carranza forces of the state. The on-1
jly fear apparently was that some of
tne .Mexican troops, or omens in...!. ,
CONSULATE FUG
IDLED BY
BULLETS
gel Deyona .lis control snouiu uisoru-i,h
ers occur in other parts of Mexico.
Many Americans who arrived from .
the interior of Sonora. as well as resi-
j. m I1.....I lw. Iiull.if
., . ; 7 .7 r,.A I ,
that, if intervention is forced upon the
United States no serious fighting will i
result in Sonora. and especially along '
the border here. :
t- c j i
Trouble On This Side? ,
Al ine same nine, persisiei. i
were in circulation that a faction of
Mexican residents of Pirtleviile, a sule
(Continued on Page 4)
LYNCHED
.who left his Host sU Hern;.)si o ves-1
wno ien ins posi a in rn..isin jt .
terday. left for Uis Angeles today to
" left Ilermosil o , vYthout tnstrur.
ordered Americans to leave in spile
persona, assurances from "enerat
n 1. a fn on1 r-jmili- I
Ochoa that they would he protected
even if United States troops el'issed ,
i. '
ily broke up
.ieIil..ns.l...i..ll mi.
against us. ot more tnan a
,in7n
Americans are left in nortliern nn
ora and I think they w ill leave with
in a few days."
llTPUff
j 10 STRIKE
I SIFT
Least Incentive Will Turn
Loc se American Troops.
Pershing Has Strategical'
Base.
: RUMORS CARRANZA
m vr p rY nrwiTVI
lurtI ot,I. UJ W IN
U;. To'L- I- IUI-.: r" T deeD eoncern and increasing disap
HlS lUk In Mexico City ln- pointuient the progress of the revolu-
terpreted As Weakening By I
1 5 "J;
Some. It's IJ is Move Now. i
Af i
rneriC2ns Leaving j
j
(By Review' Leased Wire.)
EL i'ASO. Texas, June 20. The I
1 border read the latest note to General
Carranza today and then lapsed back
it , . . n; . .
Zu, a . .T l"Kl."as
followed the crisis ,n the Mexican'
situation. - i
Speculation tonight centered on -the
nrst ciiiei s recci'non of ine i.ansinL'
document: Much interest was taken
in a t-'k'irafi recoirrd this afternoon
at t?ie Mexican consulate from the of
ficials news bureai of Mexico City.
The message read:
"General Carranza. addressing a
potr'otie crowd in Mexico C'ty, de
clared that there would he no war
between the I'nited Sta'es and Mexico
unless the I'nited States should send
a further punitive expedition into
Mexico."
'I l'- address referird to is believed
to lie the o;e nier'oned
n Monday
nie'nt s dispatches in which General , p.jnted ou,t Dut despite assurances
rnrrrnz.-. was c..mtd as saying her protection, similar acts have been
did not wish war. but woum not dortge repeated, the bandits "enjoying with
It to the sacrifice of the national dig- j impunity the liberty of the towns of
rity. In some ouarters the telegram northern Mexico."
was interpreted as lorecasting a j
I 'ickdown on the nnrt of the first
c-ief. it was pointed out that the
t'niteit States has no intention of
sending additional forces into Mexico
uless a- newsituation arises.
Army Ready.
Whatever Carranza's attitude, mili
tary authorities along the border an
I nounced themselves
tonight in com -
.......... . , ...
;sift and sharnlv executed offensive.
Tllf onlv wa" Vj protect the border
ne to drive the Carranzistas away
from
Resistance Useless.
indications which niled nn tolav
fpo. various Mexican towns along the
horror rioit t0 the probability that
n , H , r .111Pion ....m.inrs
tl,. iin,iin.i hnr. .-ill
meet with s'li'ht resistance. Men.
won.en and ch'ldren In these centers
are being ordered southward, while
rohPm hav been ns ructed to
,hp,r Interior twinf.
n7 ,,as h,VPn n". rat ion of
trenches or other fortifications.
If jf) hpllVvpd here that whatever
Mevie.na ...i. l.t ...nbe
i would be staged some distance to the
south. American military mn do not!
j rxnect ji pitched battle. They sav
(that the Mexican officers who crossed
I ver into K. Paso when the Scott-
I'obreeon conference was on rnd wit-nes'-d
the disnlav of United States
regulars, realize well that the noorly
leouinned and illv-drilled neons under
i
the Mexican banner would have no
..i .:!. i
the Americans.
. .
"m ' r,ve'
Wliil.i tlto l'!imin?iKl!ta iin.tnnht efll V I
. . . . . .. i
OIItnumber the Americans at any
arp by
' 'e Americans, who figure one of their
rZ i: x:,hev;ato,or,,I,oaop,
J iT f"s Mexican war
rvl.cls ,re nm Zm
.
Base Well Located.
....... in,,.. ...... ..... ........... -
pro-
vides a iiiiiM'Kiatively short route to
Lacuna on the Mexican Central rail-
(Continued on page two)
,.f Minrri MnHi-ea nrv!Cies lorces is orated.
5PI5IS 15 EXPECTED
FIRED ON THIS
SIDE OF NACO
While on his way from Na
co to Blsbee last evening,
about 10 o'clock, an automo
bile driver by the name of
Lol'ay was shot at when about
one mile this side of the bor
town. The bullet splintered
the machine's windshield but
did no further damage and
Lofay added speed and got
out of the neighborhood as
fast as possible.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON". June 20. Tire
I American note begins by culling the
i attention of the Mexican government
1 IO ' ie aiscouneous lone or tne last
iirte. following with a statement that
I the United States has viewed with
",on, and bloodshed m Mexico." The
civil strife is review and the great
losj sft'ered by Americans Is point-
ed out. The note asserts that the
tie facto authorities have refused or
failed to bring the perpetrators of
I the misdeeds to justice.
Countless Outrages
"It would be tedious." the note de
clares, "to recount instance after in-
i oitiiiirr, uuiiuge diier uuiruKe to ll-
lustrate the true nature and extent
f ,,le widespread conditions of law-
lessness and violence which have
prevailed." Raids on American ter-
i.
ritory along- the. border and especial
ly the lower Rio Grande country are
reviewed, showing that American
garrisons have been attacked, sol
diers killed and equipment and hors
es stolen. In some .of these raids,
the note says, Carranza soldiers par
ticipated. 1
Mutilated Bodies
"Not only were these murders
characterized by ruthless brutality,"
it declares, commenting on the raids,
"hut uncivilized acts of mutilitation
I were nernetrnted " Refiresentntionit
I ..,,! i .. .. i ;u
Carranza Aided Bandits
nsisiH nt liein mini.ilie.1 for t i.euu
SUMMARY
acts, the note asserts, they "have re- j Cruz. Me expects to see it off tontor- i ready tonight, for marching orders It
ceived not only the protection of the 'row. but will remain at his post ''' he a matter of several days be
government but encouragement and . himself unless a declaration of war 'jrI' re 'he first regiments are mustered
aid as well." a deliberate act of war bv the del'" as the men will have to be ex-
Depredations upon American per- facto government should make ;t;ar'""d physically, additional ramp
sons and property 'n Mexico have necessarv for him to leave. , equipment assembled fer them and
been still more numerous, it is con-! While the United States awaits Car-itlie trains tv carry them to the border
1 tended, instances of acts ol law less -
lness and murder are cited, together
wnii requests ior piiiiisumeni 01 me ;,.,,. are p,nK gteadily ahead. The entire attard of the I)i-tri.t of
bandits, hut no elfective action waj Guards to Go South. I Columbia will He under canvass to
taken by the defacto government. 10,row a, Kort M. vexs. wrtuallv
Villa Free To Murder
Carranza authorities knew- of the j states and pias for sending some Mf
operations of Villa, it says, but still thtMn sotIlward in response to a, re
he was permitted to massacre and ' ucs, fron, (nt,rai Kunston are under
destroy. Americans were Informed s,.,.retarv i.aiisng described
that t.'ie Chihuahua district was safe,...;' , ,r ..,,,, UJ he-
from bandits and under this promise
American mining men went into the;
Cusihiriachic mining region. Then
followed on January 10 the Santa '
Ysahel massacre in which 18 of the:
American party were taken from a'
train on which they had been grant
ed safe conduct, their clothing re-,
moved, and "shot down in cold 1
blood."
Carranza declared he would pursue
and punish U'ie band, the note points ' patLh to Secretary Baker indicating
out, but so far as known .mly onejwnat port.'.m of the loii.niio guards
man personally connected with this ',,, ordered under arms he needs
(Continued on Page Four) immediately to stiDen his, border
sonora moors COMING 10
BORDER; DOUGLAS EXCITED
rRw Rwiu I Wir. 1
nil i;i.a.s .nine zu. .viexican
I troo
linen
roops have begun a northward n.Mve- were organising to join the army at ey virtually no question to be set
iient along the right of way of the Fronteras in the event of the outbreak ""J except Mne-whether the de
Nacozari Railroad, according to the
.... . . .
siaiemeni -,n renmees in.ui me s.p.nu
.... .....i,.. ,h
-e ..,-,
Ill l W O 1 1 U 1 1 II I I'll atltl HIK? "
rablinonBt ,wentv two miles south..
"'P"" '- garrison ord.nar-
?A.!1'!!
'"""ii "'l" . " '. '
come in c.kih eeRI " '
the same time all of the trooDs
It is estimated mat tnere are ap-
prorimateely twenty rive hundred men
at KtMnteras at the present time.
:Note Accuses Carranza
i
Aiding Bandits; Says
On U. S. Troops Means War
Reply Handed Minister At Washington Tells First Chief He
Is Menace To American Peace, Full Of Sentimentality ,
Declares He Impeded Americans Pursuing Bandits
And Fostered Anti-American Demonstrations
SHARPEST REPUDIATION IS GIVEN
TO GENERAL CARRANZA'S NOTE
Funston Already Orders Guards To BorderWhile Navy Es
tablishes Embargo On Arms From Sea. Plan Of Occu
pation Of Mexico Is Outlined. Ten Thousand More
Sailors Asked Immediately. Up To Carranza, Now
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON". June 20. The issue of war or peace with Mexico,
hung in the balance tonight, awaiting General Carranza's decision as to
the course he will pursue. Otlicials here believed that 48 hours might bring
a clear understanding of what the immediate future has in slre.
A note signed by Secretary Lansing, conveying President Wilson's
rejection of the demand for withdrawal of American soldiers from Mex
ico, accompanied by a specific naming that an attack n the troops "will
lead to the gravest consequences," was telegraphed to Mexico City today
by Kliseo Arreuondo. Mexican ambassailor-designate. In plain terms, it
accuses General Carranza of haviug brought matters IV the vere cf war.
by open hostility toward the I'nited States and failure to safeguard even
the lives of Americans in Mexico or on the border, from the lawless ele
ments am'jng his countrymen.
In sternest terms the note repudiates and resents imputation of ba!
faith and ulterior motives brought against the Washington government in
the Mexican communication to which it in reply. General Carranra is in
fjmied in so many words, that protection of its own borders is V.e only
object sought by the United States and is told that object will fce pursued
whatever the consequences may be.
When the riete hr.il bf "n ha--'ed V.i
Mr. Arredondo for delivery to his
chief, copies were sen to all e:n-;
bassies and legations for their in
formation. A summary was tele
graphed tj Special Asent Rodger in '
Mexico City that he might w isely !
counsel American residents there, lie;
will not communicate it to Carranza
oOicials.
Pi..inn Mnien Citv.
Mr. Rodgcrs reported during the !
il:iv that he had arranged for a refugee
tr;n t, nm- nmvrii-anK a n.l ot'ier.
' r,.rui .....r frnn. Mevieo Cilv i' i Vera
; ranzas n,Nt move, steps to make tne.
( )ornr secure against w hatever may
Guards to Go South. j
j Mobilization of the national guards-!
linen U nra.ee, lill' exneditiously in all'
ing I'junded only on a resolve to pro
tect the border. That policy has not
been changed, he said, and no military
step that has been taken has hjd any
other object. General Carranza was
officially informed of this in the note
which went !rward today.
Funston Cslls Them.
To carry out his share of the policy.
General Funston sent a lonn code ilif
Renorts from Nacozari stated that
nueeii iiiiiioieu i numn . ."'"inn"."
jf war. while many civilians from
... 1 ...u . . .
v iniins. . .".umn
n. ..r v..,,,.,i .r nr..r,,,i t
' " ' - ,
Ilf H II in-i m ll .... v
Railroad equipment was gathered
r,yA? .ra ..
reHable American s.mrces all of
I"Jr 11.. .STJ
Z 'Z??"?... . ! 7. m t,"
ina of this move cannot be fathomed
....j., .... ....
across ine tinier nere wnii i.eu
lamiues. i-arsc quanuue ni ummi
stuff were taken across to A sua
Prietu during the day.
WITHfR 48 MS
of
Attack
guard. The pointful wJycli lie wi-hf
the men to mobilize u:ni the pr por
tions M infantry. caaliy and artillery,
he desires to h:ue at each phire were
incluued.
Assignment will be made from the
first stat units to be mustered into
the service. I'reHaiinary Erraa.-
mer.ts were discussed t'Jii.iy wi;h
' railroad ouViais looking i" tl-eir
' prompt transportation, to the p. :ats
selected by General Punston
Mustering Still On.
V.uie of the guardsmen
summoned
. under I resident Wiisons call wer.
"-' u il
Some Ready Tocay.
ready for mustering. Several suites
are ah'j expected to complete their
mobilization by tomorrow night and
decision may then reach as to which
force will move tirst. There was m
otlicial inlVrmatioii available tonight
to furnish :iu estimate as. to" how
much time would be required to get
the entire force rea.lv for active seiv
ice. War deoartment otlicials have been
highly gratiiied at reports ol t :wdeil
recruiting stations in several states.
They also, are p!eas--d tha the vo
ernors of xirtually all states having
iinportar.t na'ioiiat guard units sum
moned have so-iiht permissiVn to for
ward ineir entire contingent.
Several Armies.
No increas.es in the allotment
made are now contemplated. In this
connection, it was learned that the
selections made were designed l" fur
nish the elements of setetal provi
sional brigades and that, taken a a
w hole, the regulars and Kuardsuien
represent the units of several field
armies into which they mitht be
auickly assembled should war with
Mexico come.
The note delivered LVilay is viewed
here as President Wilson's final wort
to General Carranza. It makes no
discussion and
facto government will suppress out-
l.iwery atainst Americans. It ar
raigns General Carranza by name, for
having permitted bandits "to roam at
will throimh territory continuuous to
the United States." while he has seen
tit f recite "groundless sentiments of
hostility." toward the expedition sent
alter Villa a:id "to impute to this cm
ernmer.t ulterior motives for the con-
tinned presence or American ti'jons
e .... out
on Mexican soil.'
Carranza Fostered Riots.
Secretary' Lansing points out in the
note many evidences of Carranza's
hostile attitude in effects and as-
thof Ih. In. ..l.rir.
.... ... ..,....
up tne sitiiat'm in northern Mexico
promised by General Ohrecon at ;.U
(Continued on pa Re two)
