ST. JOHNSBURY, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 21, 1916.
VOL. LXXIX, NO. 46 WHOLE NO. 4118.
COMMENCED AUGUST 8, 1837.
The Berry-Ball Dry Goods Co.
w Dm
Commences Thursday Morning. June 22
and Closes Monday NigHt, July 3
FOR CASH OKLY
' (For full description of sale see pages 12 and 13)
Store closed Wednesday, at noon, lo re
mark our stock
We shall have Big Bargains Every
Day. REMEMBER: Sale full
force until Monday night, July 3d.
Our Store Closed all day, July 4th
The Berry-Ball Dry Goods Co.
A BANK,
Like the Individual, Must Live
and Be Known By Its
Reputation
We endeavor to be ravorably known by:
Careful Management Insuring Safety of Principal.
Liberal Dividends to Depositors 4 compounded semi-annually.
Prompt and Courteous attention to busiress, whether by mail or
at our window.
And to do our part to assist the small Depositor to a start to
wards habits of thrift. To this end we receive deposits of 11.00 and
upwards.
Passumpsic Savings Bank
St. Johns bury, Vermont
S NASOL
An Antiseptic Ointment for the Nose
FORMULA
Boracic Acid, Sodium Chloride, Menthol, Oil of Eucalyp
tus and White Petrolatum. Antiseptic and soothing to the
nasal mucous membrane ; an ideal compound
For Catarrh and Colds
AMERICAN CHEMICAL COMPANY
USE USE
The AMERICAN LIVER TABLETS The AMERICAN THROAT TABLETS
"THEY MADE THE QUARTER FAMOUS"
FRATERNAL MEETINGS
Fimuh1 L4ce, No. 27. F. A. M.
Called Communication Thursday tTen
lag, June 22, this being Annual Past Mas
era' Night. Light lunch serred after the
work.
F. W. Jackson, W. M.
D. R. Colb, Secretary.
Haswell Royal Arch Chapter, So. 11.
Stated Convocation Friday evening, July
14.
Raymond a. Pbarl, E. H.P.
Fiio G. Moon, Secretary.
PaleatLae Commaadery, No. 5, K. 1,
Stated Conclave Tuesday evening, July
11.
Blwik A. Silsbt, Em. Commander.
Barjl D. Evans, Recorder.
The Museum of Biataral Stltit.
Open week days 912 A. M , 1 1 P. M
Sundays 2.30 to 5 P. M.
All visitors welcomed.
St. Johaabary Athenaeum.
(.IBRAXY RBADINO ROOM ART GALLERY
9 o'clock to 9 o'clock each week day, Wed
nesday evenings excepted.
3 o'clock to 5 o'clock Sundays.
All are invited. . .
LOCAL NOTICES
(Notices will be Inserted in thia
column In reading- matter type at the
rate of ten cents a line (or the first
insertion and five cents a line for sub
sequent insertions of the same copy.)
First class seven-passenger auto for
hire. C. E. Sparhawk. Phone 336-M.
The Sunday school . and Parish of
St. Andrew's church will hold. a picnic
June 28, in the Peck woods.
The Ladies' Aid of the First Bap
tist church will hold a Food Sale
Saturday, June 24, at 2.30. Baked
beans and brown bread, white bread
and pastry.
When motoring through Peacham
call at "The . Pondside" . for lunches,
maple syrup and cool drinks. Ice
cream Saturday afternoon and Sun
days. Boats, to let. J3tate road, four
miles from Danville. Beginning Sat
urday, June 17,
Mrs. Stella Folsom announces her
regular millinery sale beginning
Thursday of this week, when all hats
and material will be sold at or below
cost. Her parlors will be closed after
July 4th for the season.
The ladies of St. Andrew's Church
will hold a Food Sale at the parish
rooms, Saturday, June 24, at 2 o'clock.
Special orders may be left with Mrs.
Morse, 2 8 Western Avenue.
. A dance will be given at Green
Mountain Grange Hall, St. Johnsbury
Center, Friday evening, June 23. The
public is cordially invited.
Mrs. A. E. Grow, foot specialist,
will be in town Thursdays, Fridays
and Saturdays only until September
25. Adv.
When motoring through Peacham
call at "The Roadside" for lunches,
maple syrup and cool drinks. Ice
cream Saturday afternon and Sun
days. Boats to let. State road, four
miles from Danville. Begining Sat
urday, June 17.
Try the new College Ice, "Ruby
Flop" at Searles Soda Fountain.
From May to September The Cale
donian Office will be closed Saturday
afternoons. Bring in your business
Saturday morning.
The AEROFRAM GAS SAVER
guarantees to reduce your gasoline
bills. Price $1.00. Perrin No Glares
cuts out the glare, increases the light.
Price 1.00. J. M. CADY, 38 R. R.
St., Phone 9, ring 1
Fairbanks Coffee, aold by A. H.
Gleason, 73 Main street.
It you need a monument or any
lettering done in cemetery write or
call 534M. J. E. Walker.
RED
U. S. REFUSE OELIVE
PEACE OR WAR HANGS IN BALANCE
AWAITING CARRANZA'S RECEPT
ION OF IT 48 HOURS MAY DECIDE
QUESTION
Washington, June 20. The issue of war or peace with Mexico
hangs in the balance tonight awaiting Gen. Carranza 's decision as to
the course he will pursue. Officials here believed that 48 hours might
bring a clear understanding of what the immediate future has in store.
A note signed by Lansing conveying President Wilson's rejection of
the demand for withdrawal of the American soldiers from Mexico, ac
companied by specific warning that any attempts on the troops will Jead
to "the gravest consequences," was telegraphed to Mexico City today.
In plain terms it accuses Gen. Carranza of having brought matters
to the verge of war by open hostilities toward the United States and
failure to safeguard even the lives of Americans in Mexico or on the
border from the lawless elements of his countrymen.
, While the United States awaits Carranza 's next move war steps
are going steadily ahead. Mobilization of the National guardsmen is
proceeding expeditiously in all states and plans for sending some of
them forward in response to a request from Gen. Funston are UDder
way. To carry out his share in the policy Gen. Funston sent a long
code dispatch to Sec. Baker today indicating what portion of the 100,000
guardsmen he needed immediately to reinforce his border guard. .
Assignments will be made from the first to be mustered in. Some
are all ready for marching orders. It may be several days before the
men can be mustered into the federal service, however, as the men will
have to undergo physical examinations. War department . officials are
gratified at reports of crowded recruiting stations.
The note delivered today is viewed here as Pres. Wilson's linal
word to Gen. Carranza. It makes no overtures for further discussion
and leaves virtually no question to be settled but one, whether the de
facto government will suppress outlawry against Americans. It ar
raigned Gen. Carranza by name for having permitted bandits ' ' to roam
at will through territory contiguous to the United States," while he
has seen fit to surround the American expedition against Villa and to
impute to this government ulterior motives in its invasions.
The purpose of the United States to withhold all arms and ammu
nition shipments from Mexico as long as this menace continues is an
nounced. It was learned today that plans had been made by the navy
to stop such shipments by water. Another step was the decision of Sec.
Daniels to ask the senate to add an authorization for approximately
10,000 enlisted men to the pending naval bill which as passed calls for
11,000 over the present strength.
There is no fear here for the safety of Gen. Pershing and his men,
who are in strong force.
Globe Theatre Program June 2 1-28
WEDNESDAY.
"As In A Looking Glass," featuring Kitty Gordon. (World).
"Their First," (Comedy), featuring Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Drew.
(Metro.)
THURSDAY
"Green Stockings," featuring Lillian Walker. (V. L. S. E.)
FRIDAY
"Out of the Drifts," featuring Marguerite Clark. (Paramount).
"Pictographs," Educational. (Paramount).
SATURDAY
"One Million Dollars," featuring Wm. Faversham. (Metro).
"The Count of Ten, (Comedy), featuring Mr. and Mrs. Sidney
Drew. (Metro).
MONDAY
"Diplomacy," featuring Marie Doro. (Paramount). "Mysteries
of Myra," Episode No. 6. (International).
TUESDAY
"The Corner," featuring Clara Williams and Wm. Mack. (Tri
angle). "Because He Loved Her," featuring Sam Bernard.
(Triangle) .
ijsj Ycu See Stars In Metro Pictures f
15TH VERMONT
HAS REUNION
24th Annual Held at St. Johnsbury
Tuesday Afternoon and Evening
Resolutions of Loyalty to the
Flag are Adopted
THE BOYS OF COMPANY D
COXCOHD POSTOFFICK ROBBED
(Special to The Caledonian.)
Concord. June 15. Postofflce rob
bers broke Into the postofflce here
about midnight Sunday night and
"blew open the safe, destroying it and
securing a small amount of booty es
caped without detection. They did not
take the money or stamps but secur
ed Rome papers that belonged to the
postmaster, F. W. Chapman, and the
safe Is practically ruined.
Several people heard the explosion
which took place about 1.30 Monday
morning, but am not near it aisunct
ly enough to realize what It was.
About five minutes after the explosion
an auto was heard running toward St.
Johnsbury and It Is evident the rob
bers came and escaped by auto. The
broke Into the blacksmith shop of
Martin Dale and secured a sledge and
Captain, II. A. Wilcox, 1st
Lieutenant P. B. Hartwell, 2nd
Lieutenant II. M. La del, 1st Ser
geant C. W. Stlnson, Quartermas
ter Sergeant IV. It. Knapp, Ser
geant W. J. Lapointe, Sergeant
S. Morency, Sergeant G. W. Mc
Crae, Sergeant C. A. Streeter,
Corporals A. Slicer, E. Caldwell,
W. J. Cook and C. M. Kendall,
Artificer L. M. Founder, Cook F.
Blackshaw, Musicians E. J. Bemis
and C. C. Mosher.
Privates M. E. Ash ton, J. Y.
Antle, J. B. Bedard, II. JT. Berry,
P. A. Bonett, T. W. Brewer, C.
Briggs, O. B. Cutting, W. L.
Dalgle, E. Drown, D. J. Duval, E.
H. Edmonds, F. Elliot, A. Fields,
C. J. Gagnon, A. Garon, W. W.
Garfield, F. B. Granger, M. E.
Gray, F. S. Hartwell, A. I.' Hud
son, B. C. Harris, A. N. Hall, C.
J. Heath, J. H. Howard, F. A.
Liberty, J. S. Jfartell, L. Martell,
G. D. Murch, E. E. McXamara,
A. McQueen, A. Ouellette, R. A.
Pease, T. II. Rogers, C. Rivers,
H. C. Stoddard, P. E. Sweet, E.
J. Yigncault, A. J. Wovrall, H.
Wilkey, F. Willey, William Bur
den, Arthur Leonard, Antonia
Dysont, J. D. Lawranee, C. C.
Remick, E. E. Dresser, B. F.
Denison, II. L. Carter, E. Sheldon,
J. P. Ball, F. L. McQueen, A. W.
Cowen, F. A. Nelson. W. E. Ray
mond, H. H. Stabler, II. S. Web
ster, William Laskey, Eugene
Page, G. R. Fisher, A. Greenwood
Eugene Burroughs, E. H. Lang,
Stewart Cheney, Roland Spencer,
Walter L. Douglas, J. H. Leslie,
Homer X. Minard, Ernest E. Wig
gin, Earl F. Daniels and Edward
Ingersoll.
forced the door to the postofflce. This
same shop was broken into and the
same sledge used In the break made
here seven years ago.
State's Attorney Powell of Island
Pond came Monday afternoon and
Bert Wentworth, an expert on finger
prints came Monday evening, but no
clue to the robbers was secured.
The 2 5 cent piece was made
famous by the American Liver
Tablets, the perfect laxative.
A SPECIAL LEGISLATURE MAY BEICALLED
Gov. Gates Issues Statement After Conference Last Night Will
Convene Extra Session If It Develops That State Troops are
to Be Held Any Length of Time
(Special to The Caledonian.)
Montpelier, June 20. The following statement was made
by Governor Gates after an interview with Adjt. Gen. Lee Til
lotson, tonight:
"I shall call a special session of the legislature as soon as
it appears that the state troops are to be held in4 federal service
for any length of time. War has not been declared and the
length and nature of service of the state troops has not been
sufficiently determined to justify the expense of a special session
of the legislature.
"I do wish to say, however, that if the present situation is
prolonged to any degree, that the state shall provide for addi
tional pay for enlisted men and for any exigencies that may
arise. The state should also amply provide for families and
dependents of enlisted men. This seems imperative, as the
members of the National guard, married or unmarried, are
ordered into service by the president and are obliged to respond.
There is no option on the part of the individual as there was
with the volunteers of the Spanish American war.
"The present situation demands our serious attention and it
is my desire that we perform our full duty in the present
trouble with Mexico that, the protection of American people may
be assurred."
MEXICO RULING TOPIC
And the Old Fellows Show the Same
Ardor As In the Days of '6t
Many Were the Expressions of
Disappointment Because They
Were Too Old for Service.
CO. D AWAITING CALL
Xo Word Received Up to a Late Hour
Last XJght Rapid lrogress Being
Made in Drilling of Recruits.
At -a late hour last night Co. D was
still waiting the call to entrain for
Fort Ethan Allen on the first lap of
their possible trip to the border. Al
though very little information has
been given out at headquarters, it is
thought that the word to move will
come very soon now, probably some
time Wednesday or Thursday.
It was rather quiet around the local
headquarters today except that the
recruiting is still being continued.
The company would like to make the
best appearance possible and although
the strength of the company far ex
ceeds the number carried in times of
peace, the call Is out for 50 more men,
wanted immediately.
The old First Regiment band has
been composed mostly by members
who have passed the active service
age, so any musician who wants to
toot his horn for Uncle Sam will be
welcomed as a member of the First
Regiment band to flir the vacancies
caused by those compelled to retire.
The company yesterday afternoon
was drilled on the Common as they
were on Monday. All the company
were put through the manual of arms
or part of it. The new recruits were
put in charge of corporals and were
given their first work-out today and
the officers seemed pleased at the ad
vancement made by them after the
afternoon drill.
The old members of the company
were drilled in different portions oi
the manual, and in drill in skirmish
line, etc.
When it was thought Monday aft
ernoon that possibly the company
would have to leave immediately for
the front, there was some question as
to accommodations for the night, but
officers of the company confened
with Mr. Marshall, who is in charge
of the Y. M. C. A. building, and with
in three hours Mr. Marshall had beds
ready to accommodate 25 men.
Picnic and Muslcale.
' A fine entertainment is scheduled
at the club house of the Old Pine
Country club Friday night to which
all members of the club are most
cordially invited. A picnic supper
will be served about 6 o'clock and
members are expected to bring their
own supper. Coffee and Ice cream
will be furnished by the house com
mittee. About 7.30 a choice musicale
has been arranged, including both
vocal and instrumental selections.
The piano at the club house adds
much to the attractiveness of the
place and to the success of musical
entertainments.
The veterans of the1 Fifteenth Ver
mont infantry, G." A.' R., held theli
24th annual reunion in Grand Army
hall Tuesday morning and afternoon.
The reunion was the more in evi
dence coming as It did when the boys
of Co. D were preparing to leave for
the Mexican border.
Many were the comments made by
the old soldiers on the present day
conditions and each and every one ex
pressed the desire to once more
shoulder the rifle and fight for their
country as they did In '61.
In fact, the thought of once more
enlisting and the sight of the "Old
Flag" so raised their enthusiasm that
they seemed fired with the ardor and
patriotism they must have exhibited
when starting for the front over 60
years ago.
The reunion was called to order by
Colonel J. H. Winslow of Whitefield,
N. H., who appointed as committee
on resolutions R. J. Brock of Wells
River, J. M. Webster of Barton, and
A. C. Pillsbury of Wheelock.
Among the speakers of the after
noon were Comrades J. II. Winslow,
Whitelleld. N. H., R. J. Brock, Wells
River, A. C. Pillsbury of Wheelock,
and Joseph T. Gleason of Lyndon
vllle. Rev. D. E. Burns of Monroe,
N. H., a visitor at the reunion, also
spoke.
The main subject of the day was
the present situation with Mexico.
Officers of the coming year are as
follows: Colonel, J. H. Winslow of
Whitefield, N. H.; lieutenant, J. R.
Christie of Glover; major, W. S.
Brooks of Barnet; adjutantand quar
termaster, J. T. Gleason of Lyndon
ville. The Roll of Honor is: Co. A, John
McClary of Fairlee; Benjamin Rob
bins, Strafford; Co. D, James Miles of
Topsham; Co. I, Daniel A. Cobb,
South Albany; Co. K, Daniel Celley
of Lyndonville, and Charles Ranney of
St. Johnsbury.
The ladies of the Chamberlin Re
lief Corps served a bountiful dinner
which was certainly done Justice to
by the veterans.
The following were among those to
attend the runion: G. H. Winslow,
Whitefield, N. H.; J. N. Webster.
Barton; John Arthur, Glover; B. F.
Woodbury and W. C. Pratt of Con
cord; J. T. Gleason, Lyndonville;
John Stephenson, Barnet; A. M.
Whitelaw, and Andrew Arthur of
Wells River; Joseph Quimby Wilder.
Vt.; Charles E. Davis; Vernon A. C
Pillsbury, Wheelock; S. M. Farron
and W. S. Brook, Barnet; E. E. Carr,
R. S. Kelly, H. R. Pratt, H. G. Ely,
II. C. Newell and W. H Goodwin. G.
C. Chamberlain, Monroe, N. H.; Mat
thew Robinson, Lyndon Center; J. B.
Christie, Glover; F. E. Cobleierh, Lyn
donville; D. W. King Burke, and I .O.
Olmstead, Greensboro.
Visitors to the reunion: Capt.
Marshall Montgomery, 3d Vt. of St.
Johnsbury: A. B. Stearns of Woods-
ville, N. H., 9th N. H. Inf.: I. S.
Moore, 3d Vt., Mclndoes Falls; W. II.
Goodwin, 3d N, H., St. Johnsbury: E.
W. Wellington, 4 6th Massachusetts.
Monroe, N. H and Osman Dwyer,
4 th Vt.. Barton.
Ladles out oftown were: Mrs. C.
G. Mooney, Lyndon; Mrs. C. E. Da
vis. Vernon; Vt.; Mrs. L. M. Allen
and Mary S. Gleason, Lyndonville; S.
Agnes Whitelaw; Mrs. R. G. Brock
and Mrs. S. E. Goss. Wells River.
SITUATION IN MEXICO
J. GilfiUan of St. Johnsbury, Just
Back From Texas Says But Few
Realize Its Seriousness. .
"The situation in Mexico is not
fully appreciated here and the north
ern people do not seem to realize the
situation on the American side of the
border."
Although not wishing to be quoted
as an authority on the subject, the
above statement was made by C. J.
Gilfillan of 11 Portland street, who
returned from a month's business trip
in Texas Saturday. Mr. Gilfillan said
that unless immediate steps are taken
f?r the relief of the border and
n."led troops are sent for its protec
tion, there nil! be a strip of territory
i'ruin 4o to oi) miles wide near the
Rio Grande that will be depop
ulated as a steady evacuation Is go
ing on by the residents of that sec
tion. Mr. Gilfillan met and talked with
many American property holders on
both sides of the border and they all
tell the same story of disregard of
property and lives of Americans due
to the frequent inroads of the bandit
guerillas. He told of meeting a man
on the train, who prior to the raid at
Columbus owned a partnership in a
garage in that place. Before the raid
he employed from six to eight men
and operated from two to four pas
senger cars beside, but after Villa's
raid he was compelled to let his
men go and finally he and his partner
were forced to sell their goods and
machinery to get enough money to
bring them up north, for people re
fuse to travel where there is such
constant danger.
The conditions in the border towns
are such that the civilian population
is compelled for safety's sake to re
main in their houses after sundown.
In a talk Mr. Gilfillan had with an
other party, who had Just crossed the
border, the man said that of the peo
ple of Mexico there were not more
than 10 per cent who wanted war, the
remaining 90 per cent wanting to be
let alone and allowed to make a liv
ing and raise enough to eat.
He further said, and in so saying
echoed the thoughts of many.
"I cannot understand why the peo
ple of the United States are Bending
so much money and food to Europe
when righ here on our own border
there are thousands of families who
are practically starving for want of
food. The food that the average
Mexican family lives upon is the
mesquit bean, a small hard bean and
very bitter. Mr. Gilfillan said the
case would be very well paralleled if
the family of a man of our working
class were compelled to subsist on the
beechnuts that they could pick up.
There are hundreds of peaceful
Mexican peons who are walking 200
miles to the American border in the
hopes of admittance and of getting
something to eat.
Boost the Caledonian.
The 25 cent piece was made
famous by the American Liver
Tablets, the perfect laxative.
Preparedness, Like Charity,
Begins at Home.
Isn't the full Coal-bin an ex
ample of the kind of preparedness
most of us believe in? It's better
to be ready and not go, than to go
and not be ready.
Preparedness orders coming in
daily.
1 1 lljj jljl
