THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AM INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAE
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, JUNE 21, 191C
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 34
HI1S Will
DECIDE WAR OR P
j AC i
FULLY PREPARED ALONG THE ARIZONA MEXICAN BORDER CARRANZA IS ACCUSED OF
ARIZONA DETAIL
II HIES
FOB K DUTY
RUSSIANS, OCCUPY
SEVERAL TOWNS SOUTH
WEST OF CZERNOWITZ
1 9
INFANTRY MOVE I
DOWN RIO GRANDE
I" Qonnhlir.ir. A P LuiKit Wire"!
DOUGLAS, Ariz., June 20. Quiet '
preparations on ihe part of officers of ;
the Arizona district of the United
States border patrol to prepare for 1
;iny possible development, the arrival
here of increasing numbers of Ameri- j
can rtiugecs irom me mining uisu-ims i (roo,,a
peated assurances of both Mexican J
and American officials that law-abid- i
ins citizens of the opposite national-
ity need fear no harm, marked dove!- j
opments in this vicinity during tho
day. !
One of the outstanding features of
the situation here was the faith ex
pressed almost unanimously by Amer
icans in the promised protection to
foreign residents of Sonora by Genera!
P. Llias Calles, commander of the
f'iirransa forces of the state. The only
fear apparently was that some of the
Mexican troops or citizers might get
beyond his control, should disorders
occur in other parts of Mexico.
llany Americans who arrived from
the interior of Sonora, as well, as res
idents of Douglas expressed the be
lief that, if intervention is forced upon
the United States, no serious fighting
will result in Sonora, and especially
along the border h,ere.
At the same time, persistent re
ports were in circulation that a fac
tion of Mexican residents of Pirtle
ville, a suburb of Douglas, was plan
ning to begin rioting at the first sign
of fighting between Mexican and
American forces. However, efforts to
trace these reports to eny definite
pource were fruitless and most offi
cials were inclined to discredit them.
Possible attempts at rioting and
perhaps efforts to burn buildings, it
was stated by one official, waa caus
ing the most concern of the authori
ties. For this reason all such reports
were promptly investigated.
Details of their detention by armed
Mexican civilians at C'ar.anea Satur
day night were related today by scores
of refugees reaching here from that
mining camp of. Sonora. The follow
lng series of events there were related
by the arrivals:
An omciai or cananea received a
terrain from Hermosillo Saturday
night, stating that the United States
l.:id intervened in Mexico. The mes
page was rend to the Mexican aud
ience in a theater.
A large number of the American
residents of the mining camp were at
tending a dance. The first intimation
they had of trouble was when the
Mexicans, after avming themselves,
took charee of all horses and automo-
biles owned by citizens of this coun
try. The dance hall was surrounded
by Mexicans, who passed before the
BROWNSVILLE, Tex., June 20.
A large force of infantry began
moving down the Rio Grande from
Brownsville topight in civilian
j autos for an unknown destination.
The only information obtainable
at Fort Brown was that this force
thf size of which was unknown,
was for- "patrol work tonight."
An unusual movement of Mexican
up and down the Kio
Grande was reported by horuer
m.trols in this district to Fort
j Brown late tonight. Military au-
thorities attributed the movement
to excitement among Mexicans, j
I who fear an attack from the
American side. Small bodies of
de facto troops were moving in
and out of Matamoros during the
evening. It was learned here to-
night that a force of Carranza I
j cavalry has taken possession op- I
posite San Pedro, Tex., about 12
I miles west of here. A detail of
the Twenty-sixth infantry under
command yt Col. R. L, Eullard is
stationed at San, Pedro. I
. U
PACIFIC FLEET
MAKING GREAT
DEHSTRAT1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN DIEGO, Cal., June 20. With
the departure from this port tonight
and at daybreak tomorrow of a squad
ron of armored cruisers and a flotilla
of torpedo boat destroyers, the great
est naval demonstration in the his
tory of the Pacific fleet with the west
coast of Mexico as its objective, will
be recorded.
Not since the inception of the Mex
ican troubles, has there been such a
powerful fleet sent to the western
Mexican litterol for patrol purposes,
"nor has an American admiral ever
taken the precaution to so place his
fighting ships that within a. few days
after an outbreak of hostilities he could
effectually blockade every west coast
Mexican port from Guaymas to Salina
Cruz. ffSRitt
1 When the armored cruiser South Da
kota sails from Bremerton, Wash., to
. morrow morning to join the fleet un
I der Admiral Winslow and Rear Ad
miral William F. Fullam, it will mark
the first 'time on record that every
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The Russians, continuing their ad
vance against the Austrians through
Bukowina, have crossed the river Ser
eth, southwest of Czernowitz and occu
pied the towns of Zadova, Streginelz
and Gliboka. The Austrians in this
region, their army cut in two, are de
clared by Petrograd to be in disorderly
retreat with the Russians pursuing
them toward the Carpathian moun
tains. An element of uncertainty as to the
situation between the I'ripet river and
the Glacian frontier has arisen owing
to the divergent reports of the Russian
and German war offices, both claim
ing successes for their armies. North
east of Kiselin, which lies -between
Lutsk and Vladimir-Volynski, Petro
grad says, an Austrian attack, support
ed by Germans, was repulsed, while
Berlin asserts that the Teutons were
victorious and are fighting their way
forward against the Russians.
The Russians also claim a defeat of
the Teutonic allies southeast of Lo
katchi, which lies south df Kiselin,
while Berlin declares that between the
Kovel-Lutsk railroad and the Turia
river, the Teutons have broken down
the Russian resistance or repulsed their
attacks.
In Galicia, Austrians and Germans
are still desperately resisting the Rus
sian attempts forward toward Lemburg.
In general, the situation on the other
fionts is unchanged.
In the region of Fort Vaux, north
east of Verdun, there has been rather
lively artillery fighting and bombard
ments and mining operations have tak
en place along the remainder of the
French front.
Attacks and counter attacks by the
Austrians and Italians in the Trentino
region have followed each other, but
neither of the belligerents have been
able to make any marked progress.
REPLY TO I0TE
Continued on Page Five)
(Continued on Page Five).
EX. TROOPS
I I
E
EO
HAVING B
RIGHT
ROUGHT MATTERS
TO VERGE OF WAR
Emperor to Front
LONDON", June 21.-3:10 a. m. The
German Emperor has left Berlin for the
Verdun front, according to a Cojien
hagen despatch to the Daily Mail.
The official press bureau today
gave out the following:
"A large enemy aerodrome near El
Irish (on the Mediterranean, 100 miles
east of the Suez canal), enemy camps
and troops were bombed by eleven
British aeroplanes on Sunday. A hos
tile pilot was about to as6end and his
aeroplane was destroyed by a down-
swooping raider. Seventy-six bombs
were dropped. Five and probably
more enemy aeroplanes were de
stroyed. "Three British aeroplanes were lost.
Two pilots were saved. The third, not
escaping, burned his machine."
Lonsdale is Pardoned
AMSTERDAM (via London), June
21. The Frankfurter Zeitung says
that the German emperor has par
doned William Lonsdale; an English
prisoner of war, who recently was
sentenced to death by court martial,
the sentence being later commuted
to fifteen years imprisonment.
Lonsdale was condemned by court
martial for an attack on a guard at
the Doberitz prison. The American
ambassador to Germany and the
American minister at The Hague used
their good offices in behalf of Lonsdale.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire f An embargo on war munitions and
DOUGLAS. Ariz.. June 20. Mex-! explosives of every sort was declarer
lean troops have begun a northward by the United States government and
movement along the right of way of P"t in effect here. Everyone cro3s-
the Nncozari railroad, according to inf 'he border from Douglas to Agua;
the statement of refugees from tho I'rieta was forced to submit to a
xouth late today. A cavalry advance close search of their clothing for pos-
guard- of 2T.0 reached "Cabullona, sibIe concealed weapons or ammuni-
twenty-two miles south, last night, "on- N arrests were made during
they said. This, with the exception 'he day. Vehicles also were searched,
of "a small garrison ordinarily main- Apprehension among Mexicans em-
tained in Agua Prieta, Is the farthest Ployed In this portion of southeastern
north Mexican soldiers have come in Arizona was further allayed today by
eight weeks, it is stated. 'he issuance of bulletins by the local
At the same time, all of the troops smelters. The Mexicans were ad-
which have been stationed in Cu- vised that as lon& as they, conducted
chuta. thirtv-five miles south of themselves in an orderly manner they
Douglas, were reported to have moved would, be given every guarantee of
north 'six miles, to Fronteras, where safety and personal liberty.
the infantry concentration camp
the Calles forces is located.
It Is estimnted that there are ap
proximately 2S04) men at Fronteras a
the present time. j
Reports from Nacozari stated thatj
luOO civilian volunteers were organiz-j
ing to Join the army at Fronteras in;
the event of the outbreak of war,
while many civilians from Oumpiis.
Moctezuma and other towns south of
Nacorazi are prepared to march
north In case they are needed.
Railroad equipment wns gathered
today In Agua Prieta, and, according
to reliable American sources, nil
the families in
Austria Is Sad
VIENNA. June 19, via Berlin to Lon
don, June 20. Austria takes the third
evacuation of Czernowitz with great
sadness but with absolute quiet and
confidence that the loss of the capital
of Bukowina is only temporary. Mili
tary critics point out that in view of
the overwhelming Russian forces, a
continued defense of Czernowitz would
merely have spelled the city's destruc
tion and unite in praising the decision
of the military authorities to evacu
ate. They declare that the Russian
occupation is of minimum military im
portance, and merely local advantage of
a temporary nature.
The vanguard, of the fugitives from
Czernowitz now has begun to straggle
into Vienna after a week-long journey,
(Continued on Page Five)
Says Carranza Orders The
Preven tion Of A 11 Raiding
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LAREDO, June 20. General Reyn
aldo de la Garza, military commander
of Nuevo Laredo, opposite here, an
nounced tonight that he had received
a personal telegram from General
of Carranza instructing him to do every-
the city were taken thing possible' to prevent raids in his
southward, presumably to Nacozari, territory and to exercise strict super
phortlv before nightfall. The mean-1 vision of all Mexicans crossing the
ing of this move cannot be fathomed, international line. All persons found his establishment,
here, unless it portends further north- on the Mexican side of the border in five box cars'
ward advance by the Mexicans and a; with arms, who attempted to enter Mexico.
desire to remove Mexican non-com-j the United States will immediately ' Thirty-five carloads of rich ore and
batants from the possible danger be executed without trial, General de bullion from the mines at Viilalrama
zone. A large number of Mexicans la Garza declared tonight. He will crossed to the American side todav.
went across the border here with: issue a proclamation to this effect' American Consul J. R. Silliman, at
heir families. Large quantities 4f tomorrow, he declared. . Saltillo, was said to have left his
food, stuffs were crossed to Agua An exodus of Mexicans to the ' post today and Was expected to ar
Prieta during tho day. south, presumably on free transports- rive at Eagle Pass late tonight.
tion furnished by the government;
the arrival of five American refugees
from the interior of Mexico; the abo
lition of night train service in Mex
ico and everything quiet on the sur
face, summarized the situation at
this border point tonight.
Mexican Consul Melquiades Garcia,
who for many, years has conducted
a department store here, today closed
packed his stock
and crossed into
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, June 20. The reply
of the American government to the de
facto Mexican government's note opens
with an expression of "surprise and
regret which have been caused this
government by the discourteous tone
and temper of this last communica
tion." It continues:
"Tne government of the United
Stales has viewed with deep concern
and increasing disappointment the
progress of the revolution in Mexico.
Continuous bloodshed and disorders
have marked its progress. For three
years the Mexican republic has been
torn with civil strife; the lives of
Americans and other aliens have been
sacrificed, vast properties developed
by American capital and enterprise
have been destroyed or rendered non
productive; bandits have been permit
ted to roam at will through the terri
tory contiguous to the United States
and to seize, without punishment, the
property of Americans while the lives
of citizens of the United States who
ventured to remain in Mexican terri
tory have been taken, in some cases
barbarously killed, and the murderers
have neither been apprehended nor
brought to justice."
"It would be tedious," the note de
Clares, "to recount instance after in
stance, outrage after outrage to illus
trate the true nature and extent of the
widespreud conditions of lawlessness
and violence which have prevailed."
Raids on American territory along
the border and especially the lower Rio
Grande country are reviewed, showing
that American garrisons have been at
tacked, soldiers killed and equipment
and htrse3 stolen. In some of these
raids, the note says, Carranza soldiers
participated.
"Not only were these murders char
acterized by ruthless brutality," it de
clares, commenting on the raids, "but
uncivilized acts of mutilations were
perpetrated."
Representations were made to Gen
eral Carranza, it is pointed out, but
despite assurances of protection, sim
ilar acts have been repeated, the ban
dits "enjoying with impugnity the lib
erty of the towns of northern Mexico."
Instead of being punished for these
acts, the note asserts, they "have re
ceived not only the protection of that
government but encouragement and aid
as well."
Depredations upon American per
sons and property in Mexico have been
still more numerous, it is contended.
Instances of acts of lawlessness and
murder are cited, together with re
quests for punishment of the bandits,
but no effective action was taken by the
de facto government.
Carranza authorities knew of the op
erations of Villa, it says, but still he
was permitted to massacre and destroy.
Americans were informed that the Chi
huahua district was safe from bandits
and under this promise American min
ing men went into the Cusihuiriachic
mining region. Then followed on-January
10 the "Santa Ysabel massacre" in
which eighteen of the American party
were taken from a train on which they
had been granted safe conduct, their
clothing removed, and "shot down in
cold blood."
Carranza declared he would pursue
and punish the band, the note points
out, but so far as known only one man
personally connected with this massacre
has been brought to justice by Mexican
authorities. Villa and the other tan
dits, the communication continues, still
roam at large without molestation,
"despite repeated and insistent demands
that military protection should be fur
nished," creeping closer to the border
until the Columbus raid on March 9
"After murdering and plundering, Villa
and his bandits fleeing south" the note
says, "passed within sight of the Car-
ranzista military post at Casas Grandes
and no effort was made, to stop him by
the officers and garrison of the de facto
government stationed there. ,
In the face of these conditions, it
pointed out, the United States had no
other recourse than to employ its armed
force to disperse "the bands of Mexican
outlaws who were with increasing
boldness systematically raiding across
the international boundary."
The history of the campaign against
bandits by the American punitive ex
pedition then is reviewed. In this
connection it is contended that the
Mexican authorities have not co
operated but have shown marked hos
tility, as evidenced by the Parral in
cident, when Villa and his band were
sheltered.
Answering the charge that the
American troops entered Mexico with
out permission or with ulterior mo
tives, the communication argues that
sufficient necessity existed for pfo
tection of the "Mexican border to au
thorize their crossing and that Gen
eral Carranza consented to the ar
rangement in principle for pursuit of
bandits, but quibbled over the form
of the agreement. Treaty arrange
ments between the two countries, it
is contended, provide for such agree
ments. Criticism of the Scott-Obregon
Note Signed By Secretary Lansing Conveying President Wilson's Rejec
tion of Demand for Withdrawal of American Troops from Mexico,
Accompanied by Specific Warning that Attack on Troops ' Will Lead
to Gravest Consequences" Is Telegraphed to Carranza In Plain
Terms It Accuses General Carranza of Having Brought Matters to
Verge of War. '
1 (Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, June 20.-The issue of war or peace with Mexico
hung in the balance tonight, awaiting General Carranza' s decision as to
the course he will pursue. Officials here believed that 48 hours might bring
a clear understanding of what the immediate future has in store.
A note signed by Secretary Lansing conveying President Wilson's re
jection of the demand for withdrawa 1, of American soldiers from Mexico,
accompanied by a specific warning that an attack on the troops "will lead
to the gravest consequences," was telegraphed to Mexico City today by
Eliseo Arredondo, Mexican ambassa dor-designate. In plain' terms, it ac
cuses General Carranza of having br ought matters to the verge of war, by
open hostility toward the United States, and failure to safeguard even the
lives of Americans in Mexico or on the border, from the lawless elements?
among his countrymen.
In sternest terms the note, repu diates and resents imputations of bad
faith and ulterior motives brought a gainst the Washington government
in the Mexican communication to whi ch it is a reply. General Carranza is
informed in so many words, that protection of its own borders is the only
object sought by the United States and is told that object will be pursued
whatever the consequence may be.
When the note had been handed to I .
Stocks Of Goods
Ordered Remo ved
From The Border
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NOGALES, Ariz., June 20. Chinese
merchants, who transact almost the
entire retail business of Nogales, Son
ora, "Were notified today that they
must load their entire stocks on freight
cars ready for transportation to Mag
dalena and other Mexican refuge camps
tomorrow morning. A delegation of
the Chinese appealed to United States
Consul Ernest Simpich, who is living
on this side, but he said he was un
able to advise them, as he had been
recalled. It is probable that the Chinese-
will permit their stocks to bt
confiscated and demand payment from
the Carranza government.
Mr. Arredondo for delivery to his chief,
copies were sent to all emoassies and
legations for their information. A sum
mary was telegraphed to Special Agent
Rodgers in Mexico City that he might
wisely counsel Americans residing
there. He will not communicate it to
Carranza officials.
Mr. Rodgers reported during the day
that he had arranged for a refugee
train to carry Americans and other
(Continued on Page Three)
On Verge Of Hostilities
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMBUS, N. M., June 20. Carranzista troops and soldiers of Gen
eral J. J. Pershing's expeditionary command south of Namiquipa are on
the verge of hostilities, according to reports from the field tonight. A
wireless dispatch from Colonel D. C. Cabell, General Pershing's chief of
staff, said that the attitude of the Carranzistas was such that American
motor truck supply trains are in danger of being fired upon.
The Carranzistas are said to have mounted artillery in positions
menacing the Americans, and dispatches indicated that with the two
commands in close proximity the danger of a clash is increasing.
Persistent rumors were current here tonight that General Pershing has
split his command into three columns, each prepared to move in the
event of hostilities, while others said that truck trains had been fired
upon. However, no confirmation of the reports could be obtained at mili
tary headquarters here.
Seventy
Face
Thousand Men To
Defiant Carranza Army
conferences at El Paso are answered
(Continued on Page Three)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, June 20. Facing
Carranza's defiant army in northern
Mexico there will be stationed along
the Rio Grande within a week, or ten
days an American force that will total.
it was stated todayj almost 70,000 men.
General Funston has requested the
war department to send him as quiclfly
as possible a large part of the national
guardsmen and advices received late
today indicated that entraining of the
first troops would be begun tomor
row. As fast as they arrive in the
south they will be sent to the stations
chosen. A part will be brought to Sar,
Antonio and held here as a reserve
but a large part of them will be with
in sight of Mexico when they get off
the trains.
General Funston decided not to an
nounce how many he has asked for
or the stations to which they will be
sent, but it is known that he expects
more than a division and it was said
that ,not less than 28,000 would be
sent.
Secretary Lansing's note to Carran
za's minister of foreign affairs was
read carefully by Gen. Funston and
members of his staff.
Already the border army made up
of troops of the regular army and the
militiamen of Texas, New Mexico and
Arizona, comprises more than 40,000.
The army already patrolling the In ternational
line is prepared to resist
any aggression the Mexican govern
ment forces might make but it was de
termined some time ago that it was
not big enough to guard the long line
from Brownsville to the Pacific and
army officers never have regarded it
i as strong enough to undertake an In
vasion in force.
General Funston's request for the !
guardsmen was for a "number suffi
cient to give adequate protection to
the border." Officers at this headquar
ters also felt that with this increased
force operations in -'Mexico on a big
scale might be undertaken, but in the
event of intervention or any other ac
tion making necessary a general for
ward movement into Mexico, General
Funston explained that he would ask
for the remainder of the 100,003
guardsmen called to service.
In none of the daily reports that
reached General Funston was there
news of fresh raids or other border
disturbances but information pointing
to increasing unrest across the border
and continued activity of the troops
of the de facto government was re
ceived. .;: J - Jj
General Pershing has been success
ful in avoiding a clash with the troops
that are drawn across his rear and
that cover his flanks notwithstanding
that reports indicated that he has con
tinued to send scouting patrols some
distance from his line of communica
tion and towards the south beyond
Namiquipa. The Mexican troop3 so
far have contented, themselves with as
suming such strategic positions as to
give them some advantage in the event
they are ordered to carry out General
Trevino's threat to attack General Per
shing "if he moves in any but a
northerly direction."
Many Americans Leaving
Mexico City For The Coast
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i
MEXICO CITY, June 20. Many
Americans left Mexico City this morn
ing in special cars for Vera Cruz.
Calls have been sent to Guadalajara,
Guanajuato, Puebla and other cities,
requesting Americans to eonfe to the
capital for the purpose of taking
trains for Vera Cruz or to reach
other coast ports directly, if that be
possible.
The Mexican foreign office today
again gave assurances that no ob
stacles would be put in the way of
Americans desiring to leave the
country. Americans have been treat
ed with courtesy by the officials hav
ing to do with the transportation sys
tern, but the shortage of rolling stock
is making difficult the carrying out
of those who desire to leave.
James L. Rodgers, representative of
the United States government be
fore the de facto government in Mex
ico, met a committee of Americans
today and outlined arrangements for
obtaining sufficient cars, to accom
modate them. The Pachuca Mining
companies have offered a special
train of eleven box cars and caboose,
and if the officials will permit this
to run, a great majority of the Amer
ican colony will leave for Vera Cruz
tomorrow.
The city is absolutely quiet, an-i
there have been no hostile demonstra
, tions of any kind against Americans.
