Harrisburg National Guard Units Rapidly Being Recruited to War Strength
HARRISBURG lisSffii TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 142
EUROPEAN POWERS BRING PRESSURE ON
GENERAL CARRANZA TO PREVENT BREAK
THINK KAISER
HAS INFLAMED
MEXICAN IRE
Agencies of Allies Understood to Be Active For Peace Be
cause They Believe German Influence Has Sought to
Stir Mexico Against United States With a View to
Preventing This Country From Gathering in South
ern Trade Formerly Controlled by Teutons; Carranza j
Could Call International Commission
HIGH WASHINGTON OFFICIALS ADMIT
PRIVATELY THAT THEY LOOK FOR WAR
Wilson and Baker Determining Which National Guard Or
ganizations Shall Be Sent to Border First in Answer
to General Funston's Request; If War Comes Amer
ican Troops Will Make Quick March 100 Miles South
of Line, Throw Up Fortifications and Hold Them
Until Volunteer Reinforcements Are Available
San Antonio, Tex., June 21.—General Pershing has
given the Mexican troops the opportunity to make good
their threat to attack him if he moved east or west but the
Mexicans declined the issue. The American commander
sent a small force eastward to Guzman, about thirty-five
miles from his line of communication yesterday, to investi
gate a report that a concentration of Mexican troops had
been made there.
Washington, June 21.—Strong pressure is being brought to
bear upon General Carranza by representatives of European powers
to prevent him from forcing a break with tlie I'nited States. Indirect
reports reaching the State Department to-day told of these efforts
and said there was a possibility they would be successful.
Agencies of the entente allies arc understood to be active for
peace, particularly because they believe German influence has
sought to inflame the .Mexican government Against the United
States with a view to preventing this country from gathering trade
formerly controlled In Germany in Mexico, South and Central
America*
Might Call Commission
It is pointed out that Carranza might avoid war by calling for
an international commission to discuss the border situation as pro
\ided for in the treaty of IX4B. Su far, however, no suggestion for
such a step has come from Mexico.
I* Protecting Americans
A definite statement has been re-'
reived that General Carranza is doing j
all in his power at this time to protect;
Americans in Mexico* from attack by !
the populace. He is said to have !
Fiven Special Agent Kodgers in Mex- |
ico City all the aid at his command !
in arranging for trains to carry Amer- j
icar. refugees from the interior to'
Vera Cruz. In some quarters here this
was construed as evidence that he is '
not bent upon provoking hostilities.
The State Department' had no ad
vices bearing out these hopeful indi
cation:! except that from Special Agent
Rodgers and announcing the progress
of his efforts to get American citizens
out. With the full consent of the I
Carranza authorities, lie said, and the
promise of adequate protection from
THE WEATHER,
For HarrlMhui*K and vicinity: Show
ers thim afternoon and probably
to-nlichts ThiirndH.v fair; not
much I'luiutie in tenipernture.
For KOnMtern I'pnnNjlvnnia: Shun
cr.« to-alfclit; Tliurwila.v probably
fair; frcNh, *hlftlitf£ *vln«ls.
River
Thr Stinqnchanna rl>er and Itn
tributaries \*il| probably fall or
remain nearly stationary, except 1
the .lunintn and the Upper Went
llraneh are likely to ri«e as a re
unit of the showers iudlented for
the next twenty-four bourn. A
fttaicc of about N.H feet Ik indicat
ed for HarriMhiirii Thursday
morning.
General Condition*
The dlwtnrbance that wan central
over Western Mlftsourl, Tuesday
moralnu, ban mo*e«l to
the L pper t>lilo Valley. Pres
sure In lo*v over the .Northeastern
part of the country and in the
Rocky Mountalnn and tlie South
west. \n area of hljfli prennure
In central over the I pper Mlnnls
nlppl Valley and another high In
located over the North Pacific
State*. Thin dintributlon of pres
sure In causing clondl and un
settled neather over the greater
part of the country. Ila In has
fallen In the Inst twenty-four
hours at about one-third of the
stations represented on tlie map.
Temperature changes have been
somewhat Irregular, but not de
cided.
Tempernture: R a. m.. (W.
Aunt Blues, 4:3<l a. M.i sets, 7t89
p. m.
Moon: Rises, 11:34 p. m.
River Stage: 0.8 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, 7S.
l,owest temperature, !W.
Mean temperature.
Normal temperature, 72.
BY CARRIERS « CENTS A WEEK.
XIXGI.F. COPIES 2 CENTS.
possible bandit attacks, he had ar
! ranged for a special train to leave
; Mexico City to-morrow carrying Am
ericans to Vera Cruz.
Given Safe Assurances
| Mr. Rodgers added that he and his
j diplomatic associates in the Mexican
I capital had been giv en every assurance
iof safe conduct and protection on
jtheii trip to the coast if it became
i necessary for them to leave. The
I corps of American newspaper corre
jspondents there has decided to remain
I with Mr. Rodgers until such time as
he may find it necessary to leave.
Anxiously Awaiting Word
The United States to-day anxiously
awaited word from Mexico City re
gurding General Carranza's attitude
; toward the American note sent him
yesterday for on hini depended the
question of war between the two re
j publics.
i High officials here admitted private
■ly they look for war, although care
was taken to avoid any formal ex
pressions or acts which might appear
forerunners as a declaration of war.
The only answer required from
. <»cneral Carranza is action suppress
' in? outlaw treatment of Americans
jand officials feared against hope that
i this would not be done.
Determining Troops To Go First
Unofficial versions of the note
| probably were published in Mexico
City to-day and the official text may
i already be in General Carranza's
1 hands.
Military authorities were looking
for the de facto government's attitude
in Mexican threatening troop move
ments near the border to-day, and in
I preparation for these the war depart
ment was getting ready to act on
: Genera! Funston's request for im
mediate dispatch of a number of na
tional guard units to the border. It
, was said Secretary Baker and Presi
dent Wilson probably would deter
mine what organizations should be
sent.
Several days may elapse before any
i great number of militia units can be
niiirtered into the Federal service. Re
ports of great enthusiasm and rapid
recruiting continued to come in from
; many States to-day.
Will Hold Northern Mexico
j Great interest was expressed in the
probable course to be followed in case
I Mexicans attack the American column.
, It was regarded as probable that a
! general rapid advance would be order
ed from the border to a line perhaps
1 100 or more miles south or the border
This line then would be fortified and
held until volunteer reinforcements
become available. Thus fighting would
he thrown into the enemy's territory
end the border portected against
further bandit attacks by thorough
policing of the country behind the
main line.
41 Other Mexican Pain 8, 8, ixj
HARRISBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY EVENING, JUNE 21. 1916.
/ \ 1
GETTING OUT SUPPLIES FOR THE GUARD AT STATE ARSENAL I
Vw_ y
Tents and poles for the three brigades of the Pennsylvania National Guard called to the colors were sent yester
day morning and afternoon from the State arsenal to the trains for shipment. In the picture above camp supplies for
the Sixteenth Regiment of Infantry are being- hauled away.
,
Hail and Farewell, When
the Soldiers
ANSWERING tlie call of President Wilson for troops to
guard the Mexican border, Companies D and 1 of the
Eighth Regiment, and the Governor's Troop will march away
to the mobilization field at Mt. Gretna on Saturday.
How long will they be gone? What perils will they be
called upon to face? How many of them will return?
We do not know. But this we do know; that the men who
make up these three companies are going voluntarily to up
hold the honor of the Old Mag and to place their bodies and
their rifles between the blood-thirsty hordes of Mexico and the
women and children of Texas and adjoining border States.
They have our respect and our most heartfelt good wishes for a
successful expedition and a safe return. They have all that,
and they know it. But they deserve more. Harrisburg must
not permit the troops to march away without some formal form
of farewell. Harrisburg must not see them depart without some
demonstration of the affection and regard its people hold for
them.
Who will lead the movement for an organized patriotic
demonstration on Saturday?
i /
COAL RESIZING
TO RAISE PRICE?
Many of Retail Dealers Oppose
Any Move Which Will
Hurt Poor Man
Delegates to the twelfth annußl
Pennsylvania Detail Merchants' Asso
ciation of coal dealers tn session in
this city this morning authorized the
appointment of a committee to confer
with coal operators on the proposed
resizing of grades of nnthraclte coal.
This committee will report to the
board of directors of the association
giving these officials power to act.
[Continued on Page 3]
Object to Reading Orpet
Letters at Murder Trial
By .Associated Press
Waukegan, 111., June 21. Judge
Donnelly was still unprepared when
court opened to-day to rule on the
competence or incompetence as evi
dence of the earlier letters of Will H.
Orpet to Marion Lambert, for whose
alleged murder the young man is on
trial.
The defense objected to the admis
sion of the earlier letters as having no
bearing on Marion's death. Judge
Donnelly said that the letters were so
prejudicial to Orpet. as plainly indi
cating seduction, that it would be dan
gerous to submit them to the jury.
"I have read the letters," said the
court, "and they affected me. The
effect on the jur\ may be imagined.
They might not draw the distinction
that they are trying the defendant for
murder, and murder alone."
State's Attorney Dady argued for
their admission on the ground that an
illicit love affair culminating in mur
der could be showr. only by reading
the entire series of epistles.
WlIJi TREAT GUARDSMEN FREE
Dr. J. B. Lawrence, "1* Market
street, announced this afternoon that
he will treat free the feet of every Na
tional Guardsman of the three local
companies before they leave for camp.
"They say an army travels on Its stom
ach," said he. "but it travels on Its
feet, too, and it's mighty hard going if
you happen to have tender feet. My
office will be open to any of the
Guardsqien, with service free.
TELEGRAPH PICNIC
I BIGGER IN 1917
Children's Outing at Paxtang
to Bo Repeated on Much
Larger Scale
l nofflrlnl report* of >ewtcrda>'»
attrndiincr at the 'lVlcurnpli plrnlo,
nt I'oxtnnK. Nhim that juNt <I.OO- at
tended the outlnu. Official return*
will not he atallnhle for a dav or
two,
Jiiat *3O.HS na> contributed to
Marjorle stcrrctf* hattlcxhlp fund
nt the Majestic Thenter, lust even-
Ins;. Rillth M. Bell added a dime to
thin fund thin mornlnK by deponit
| InK It at the Telegraph Office.
I Not only is the Telegraph's great
t picnic for Harrisburg's school children
to be repeated next year, but it is to
be conducted on a bigger, grander
scale than was yesterday's splendid
1 outing at Paxtang park.
That announcement was the last
J drop of Joy that was needed to till to
overflowing the cup of happiness for
jthe thousands of tiny guests of the
i Telegraph.
i The picnic yesterday was a first
(Continued on Piurc 14)
Returns Bounty He Got
From State on Dead Weasel
Two dollars which Justice W. R.
Davis, of Marysville. had forwarded to
| the State Game Commission as a con
science fund contribution for a man
who had requested him to act, reached
| the State Treasury to-day. Mr. Davis
| stated in his letter that a man Ifving
I in his vicinity had collected the $2 as
, bounty on a weasel several vears ago,
representing that his dogs had killed It.
Instead he says he found It dead. His
conscience has been bothering him and
he sent the money back.
MOKE WATKKMKIiOXS, tJ-MM
By Associated Press
Washington, D. C.. June 21. —In-
crease in watermelon acreage and a
slight decrease in that of cantaloupes
' this year is reported by the Depart
ment of Agriculture. In fifteen prin
cipal producing States watermeon
acreage is 100,965, compared with'
96,608 acres last yea., and cantaloupe
acreage is 41.273, compared with
41,981 acres last year,
NO EXCURSIONS
TO MT. GRETNA
Pennsylvania Will Be Unable
to Run Specials to Moboli
zation Camps
Thousands of Harrisburgers will be
disappointed to learn that the Penn
sylvania railroad xvlll run no special
trains to Sit. Gretna where the State
National Guard will mobilize on Sun
day.
Friends and relatives of the troop
ers and infantrymen from this city as
well as many hundreds of others in
terested had hoped In go to Gretna on
Sunday to view the mobilization
[Continued 011 Page !>]
American Schools and
Hospitals in Turkey Are
Commandeered by Military
By Associated Press
New York. June 21.—Schools and
hospitals owned and conducted by the
lAn erican Board of foreign Missions
, at Marso\'an md Sivas, Turkey, valued
lat more than hall' a million dollars,
have been commandeered by the Turks
i for military purposes and the mis-
I sionaries in charge compelled to aban
don their work there, according to
1 Americans who arrived here to-day
I from the Orient.
The property was taken over, they
I say, in May when the diplomatic sit
uation between the United States and
Germany was tense over the riego
-1 tiations growing out of the U-boat con
troversy. The missionaries* who ar
rived in Constantinople prior to the
j departure of the Americans who ar
rived here to-da.v said the Turks first
| Informed them that the United States
I and Germany were al war. This they
afterward denied, but excused their
j commandeering of the properties by
! saying they wore required for military
I purposes.
j The missionaries ir> charge, it was
I said, were given only a short time to
j leave. They are still at Constantinople,
I where they are being sheltered by
1 other organizations controlled by the
1 board. It was stated also that strict
I censorship was imposed regarding the
I sending out of news of the Turks tak
-1 ing over the American properties. In
all other respecti. hrtwever, the ar
rivals here said properties and work
of American missionaries in Turkey
were unmolested. The various schools
are flourishing and the enrollment for
the coming year of pupils is at its
maximum.
AUTO KII I.S ROY
Richard Passmore, aged 10, of Dun
ctnnon was run down and killed by
an auto driven by A. C. Logan of 210
Reily street. Harrisburg, early last
evening. The boy was rolling a hoop
down a hill toward the automobilo
and it was impossible for the driver
to stop in time to prevent the acci
dent. The accident occurred near the
scene where the boy's sister was killed
several yea-s ago when she fell off a
bridge
TO PICK HUGHES SUCCESSOR
Washington, June 21. An asso
ciate justice of the Supreme Court to
succeed Charles E. Hughes probably
will be appointed by President Wilson
ir a few days. Those most prominent
ly mentioned are Attorney General
Gregory, Senator Walsh, of Montana,
and former Secretary Garrison. John
V.'. Davis, solicitor general, is under
stood to be under consideration as
Mr. Gregory's successor in the cabinet
if the latter goes on the bench.
SUMMER GETS UNDER WAY
Summer started to-day! Started
but didn't get very far. The highest
temperature was 65; lowest 57. Since
the sun seems too proud to shine this
month, rnin is forecasted for to
morrow. This is the longest day of
,1916.
14 PAGES
LOCAL TROOPS TO
BEGIN FOLLOWING
OFFLAGSATURDAY!
Between 11 and 1 O'clock
Guardsmen Will Be on Way
to Mt. Gretna
'PREPAREDNESS PARADE'?
Recruiting Goes Merrily on as
Final Details For Departure
Are Completed
Between 11 and 1 o'clock Saturday, j
Harrisburg's National Guardsmen will j
b" on the way to Mt. Gretna, prepara- •
tory to following The Flag to Mexico.
Arrangements for the transporta
tion of the headquarters staff and the
various companies of the Eighth regi
ment were completed before evening
to-day by Captain Edward H. Schell,
quartermaster.
•Similar arrangements were com
pleted for the entraining of the Gov
ernor's Troop although the command's
movements will he governed by orders
which Captain George C. Jack will
receive from the headquarters of
Pennsylvania first cavalry regiment of
the Guard.
While the quartermaster completed
: his plans to-day. Lieutenant Colonel
Maurice E. Kinney and Captains John
i T. Bretz and Frank E. Ziegler, com-
I niandeis respectively of Companies D
I and 1 of the Eighth, put in a busy day
with their respective lieutenants at
the recruiting offices in the City
Grays' armory.
Want Bijt Farewell
The departure of the Guardsmen
j Saturday will be marked by an inter
; esting demonstration if plans now be
ling formulated by Philip German,
[Continued on Pajte 12]
7
T I
i i
i i
l
i!so of Middletown, j
1 the Governor's Troop. The Shade-Mattis wedding, it is (
£ understood will occur at 8 o'clock. Trooper Shade will rc- 9
' port for duty at the armory at 9. f
, t YAQUIS REINFORCE GARRISON f
Eagle Pass, Tex., June 21. General Muxgia, a Car- •
ranza commander arrived at Piedras Negras, the Mexican £
town opposite here to-day with a detachment of 2,000 I
i| Yaquis, reinforcing the garrison there. A large part of the . »
civilian population of Piedras Negras has already moved 'j
south. :
LAST U.. S. CONSUL LEAVES MEXICO f
Eagle Pass Tex., June 21.—Consul J. R. Sillinian arrived Kg
here to-day from Saltillo. He expects to- remain for several jri
days. He is the last American consul to leave Mexico. m
1 , HARRISBURG MAN IN AUTO CRASH I
5T Middletown. When the automobile he was driving J
I I skidded on the muddy surface of Union street, near the
j Square, this afternoon and crashed into a telephone pole, ' *
| I Albert Lutz, z Harrisburger, was thrown from the car
| £ and seriously injured. He was picked up and taken into the \ *
j j | office of Dr. J. S. Blecker and later rushed to the Harrisburg ' f
I ( Hospital. The extent of his injuries are not yet known, but
jll it is believed his skull is fractured. ■ ►
I 1 FAMOUS AVIATOR REPORTED DEAD ;
I | London, June 21.—Lieutenant Immelmann, the famous (j ||
J German aviator, is reported to have been killed. »
', Petrograd, June 21, via London. The war of , »
* i nounced to-day that the number of men captured by the ; £
' Russians in the offensive of Volhynia and Galicia up to j I
J • Thursday of last week was 172,484.
1 Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, June 21— Rear .11
| R Admiral Caperton, commander of the American expedition- '
( ary forces has decided to extend his sphere of operations and \
« i taken over two of the principal towns in the interior. ' ►
< I MAHKL&iiK IJCKiVhUI < f
John Howard Sellwr and Elate I.fnn l.averty, Middletown.
IFrnnk John 1 >zak and Mary K ll>, city.
< Gordon Mutter worth, Philadelphia* and DUIe Lcalie livana, city.
i
CITY EDITION
GERMANS THROW
MILITARY FORCE
AGAINST RUSS
Weight Stiffens Austrian Re
sistance on Eastern Front;
Verdun Pressure Lessens
ATTACKS ARE REPULSED
| Crown Prince Makes Unsuc
cessful Drives After Ex
ploding Mines
While the weight of German mill-
I tary power is being increasingly felt
j on the eastern front where it has stif
fened the Austrian resistance to the
drive of the Russians, the pressure
j on (he French at Verdun has momen
! tarily lessened. There has been rather
j lively artillery activity around the fu-
I mous western front fortress, but no
I further moves by the infantry are re
i corded in this afternoon's Paris bul
| IMin.
\ The Germans have not been alto
gether idle on this front, however, for
i after having touched off two mines
northwest of Ulieims. a district In
i which the deadlock of the armies has
i been just about as complete as any
j where along the line, they attacked
I French trenches on a height south of
! Rerry-au-Rac. Paris declares the de
fensive curtain of lire caused the as
! saull to fail completely.
| Athens dispatches forecast probable
| changes in the Greek ministry as n
1 result of the economic pressure which
j the allies have exerted because of their
! d ssatisfaction with the Greek govern
t merit's altitude. Resignation of the
I cabinet of Premier Skouloudis is ex
pected in some quarters. Former Pre-
I mler Zaimist may be asked to form a
ministry acceptable to the entente.
