11 ' 111'
I jrToday's Metal Prices yTlL Jdt V C A. S. - K r - ill
I J NEW YORk OTAT,oNa. il niliiYnitl sT tt mv v iV 4 p- E crrY EDITI0N I
1 1 NewY.r,w,; V!UJ Vlii W llXit JlvitllL J!JA$IL. ft
I lead, 56.80; spelter, $12.25; copncr. X- PM. 'w r T f fr 'T T V T Vy -fe C?;? 5 IE
I M729 25 f i- . 7 1 -V -T WEATHER Utah: Local Showers I IS
! $27.50. BJ This Afternoon or Tonight In North 'a II
; U - Portion; Fair South, Slightly Cooler; I IP
- - FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER Thursday Fair" 11
rorty-slxth Year No. 148. Price Five Centa " ' 7Z : " N W
I " OGDEN CITY, UTAH, WEDNESDAY EVENING, JUNE 21, 1916 : Enter A s r, m . ' II
1 ,VJ i7io. .Entered as Second Cass Matter at th pAfiiK. nj.. ii. I &
J One Hundred Seventy-five Business Men-"1 I
I of Northern Utah Go Sight-Seeing in Ogden 1
i M1MEU5 A1E BEING CALLED
.-1 FI POSSIBLE MILITARY SERVICE
$?J Placards Posted in Juarez and Signed by General Trevino
"J 'J Cavalry and Infantry Troops With Equipment Being
T I Rushed by de Facto Officials to Points on Mexican
11 Border Recruiting Rapidly Progressing in
' ) Every City in United States.
;: m POWERS URGE MEXICO TO AVOID WAR
j -
1
$ 4 Carranza Receives Messages From Many Diplomats Regard-
f A ing Hostile Attitude Toward United States Lansing's
fj Note Arrives in Mexico City.
ri
f, Washington, June 2 1 . Strong pressure is being brought
Sr J to bear upon General Carranza by representatives of European
hi powers to prevent him from forcing a break with the United
y States. Indirect reports reaching the state department today
I ? told of these efforts and said that there was a possibility that
I j they would be successful.
$
v 1 Washington, June 21. Special Agent Rodgers at Mexi-
;l J co City telegraphed the state department today that the Ameri-
, fi can note had reached there and was being considered by Gen-
l ;J cral Carranza and his cabinet. He made no mention of how it
''J was received.
jjj El Paso, Texas, June 21. Placards were posted about
H Juarez today calling on all Mexicans to present themselves for J
H possible military service. The' bore the signature of General
H Jacinto Trevino. '
'1 i
Eagle Pass, Texas, June 2 1 . General jVIurgia, a Car-
' ranza commander, arrived at Piedras Negras, the Mexican
jjf ' town opposite here toda3r, with a detachment of 2,000 Yaquis,
4 reinforcing the garrison there. A large part of the civilian
1 population of Piedras Negras ahead' has moved south.
I Washington, June 21. Marching
' orders for National Guard organiza-
i Uons summoned to the colors under
1 President Wilson's call are still held
up at the war department, pending
completion of the mobilization of the
troops at state camps.
' Just as soon as a sufficient num-
ber of the guardsmen have been must-
I ered into the federal service, the war
H ' department will act on General Fun-
! ston's report of yesterday stating the
": number of units he desired and to
hat he desired them .forward.
3 : Only preliminary reports of the pro-
't ' gresa of the mobilization In various
J , states had reached the war depart-
' ment today. These were viewed as
if satisfactory.
1 ' To Graduate West Pointers.
Secretary Baker said the suggestion
vi that the senior class at West Point
military academy be graduated im
mediately for active service was un
jj der consideration, but that no decision
had been reached. The cadets could
be commissioned as second Heuten-
ants immediately, if the emergency
I warrants such steps.
3 The department had no additional
i advices from General Funston regard
's ing the movements of Carranza troops
near the border or in the vicinity of
i i General Pershing's column in Mexico.
I "Washington, June 21. The United
i l States today anxiously awaited word
I t from Mexico City regarding General
Carranza's attitude toward the Amerl-
can note sent him yesterday, for on
3 him depends the question of war be
fl ' tween the two republics.
I ' High officials here admitted private
j ' ly they look for war, although care
!? I was taken to avoid any formal ex
"'i Pressions or acts which might appear
I forerunners of a declaration of war.
. The only answer required from
j General Carranza Is action suppress
j Ing outlaw treatment of Americans
i and officials feared against hope that
J this would not bo done.
J r Unofficial versions of the note prob
a ably were published in Mexico City
today and the official text already may
be In Carranza's hands.
, War Department Getting Ready.
Military authorities were looking
f for the de facto government's atti
tude in Mexico threatening troop
movements near the border today, and
n preparation for these the war de
partment was getting ready to act on
! General Funston's request for Im
mediate dispatch of a number of na
t tlonal guard units to the border. It
I was said Secretary Baker and Presl
f dent Wilson probably would deter
j mine what organizations should be
'f sent
Several days may elapse before any
BTeat number of militia units can be
f mustered into the federal service. Re
1 Ports of rapid enthusiasm and rapid
recruiting continued to come in from
toany states today.
L Great interest was expressed in the
r Probable course to be followed in
' case Mexicans attack the American
;, column. It was regarded as probable
, hat a general rapid advance from tho
S border to perhaps 100 or more miles
; south of tho border. This lino would
j then be fortified and held until vol-
.1 Unteer reinforcements became avall
1 able. Thus fighting would be thrown
into Nthe enemy's territory and the
border protected against further ban
dit attacks by thorough policing of
the country behind the main line.
A special train bearing several
American refugees from Mexico City
to Vera Cruz was to leave Mexico
City today, according to word from
Special Agent Rodgers at the Mexican
capital.
Americans Leave Capital.
Another message from Mr. Rodgers
said a train leaving Mexico City yes
terday carried a special car with
thirty American citizens, mostly
women. The refugees should be in
Vera Cruz by today, unless the car
has been detained.
Mexicans Keyed to High Pitch.
A number of dispatches were receiv
ed from consular officers and agonts
throughout Mexico They agreed that
the tension everywhere was keyed to
a high pitch, but that no disturbances
to Americans had occurred.
Consul Guayant at ProgresotMexlco,
reported there was no truth in the
rumor that General Alvarado had de
clared war against the United States.
Reports from border points said be.
tween 300 and 00 Americans had come
out of Sonora during the last few
'days.
Secretary Baker conferred at the
capital today with Senator Chamber
lain, chairman of the military commit
tee. Senator Chamberlain said it still
was the disposition of congress to de
lay action on a resolution to , provide
action for making the national guard
eligible for foreign service,
Agencies of the entente allies are
understood to be active for peace par
ticularly as they believe German in
fluence has sought to Inflame the Mex
ican government against the United
States with a view to preventing this
country from gathering In trade form
erly controlled by Germany with Mex
ico. South and Central America.
It is pointed out that Carranza
might avoid war by calling for an in
ternational commission to discuss the
situation as provided for by the treaty
of 18-18. So far, however, no such step
has come from Mexico.
Carranza Doing His Best.
A definite statement has been re
ceived that General Carranza is doing
all in his power at this time to pro
tect "Americans in Mexico from attack
bv the Mexican populace. He is said
to have given Special Agent Rodgers
in Mexico City all the aid In hfs pow
er In arranging for trains to carry
American refugees from the Interior
to Vera Cruz. In some quarters here
this was constmed us evidence that
he was not bent upon provoking hos
tilities. The state department had no advic
es bearing out this hopeful outlook ex
cept from Special Agent Rodgers,
which told of his efforts to get Ameri
can citizens out. With the full con
sent of the Carranza authorities, he
aaid, and tho promise of full protec
tion from possible bandit attacks he
had arranged for a special train to
leave Mexico City tomorrow carrying
Americans to Vera Cruz.
Mr Rodgers added that he and his
diplomatic assistants In the Mexican
capital have been given every assur
ance of safe conduct on their trip to
the coast if it became necessary for
them to leave. Sp.ecial Agent Rodgers
has decided to-remain in Mexico City
until such time as it became neces
sary for him to leave
Nebraska Infantry Ready.
Omaha, Neb., June 21. The Fourth
(Infantry, Nebraska National Guard,
was ready for mobilization -todav,
every company having reached tlie
required strength. Delay is asembling
the guard has resulted from indecision
of the authorities as to the concentrat
ion point. Lincoln was named in tho
original order. This was changed .to
Ashland, where the state owns a nTle!
range. Yesterday It was found this1
sight was not wholly suitable and it
was suggested that the war depart.'
ment might consent to the use of1
Fort Crook, near Omaha. Negotia-i
tionshvere begun on this proposition.
Mexico Calling for Cars.
El Paso, Texas, June 21. Railway
officials here stated that the Mexican
government has been making strenu
ous efforts to have the cars of the
National railways returned from ino
American side. The Mexicans gae
the excuse that they wanted to oei
haul the cars in rehabilitating their
roads
no
MFYIfll WhK
iTlLAIb MwO
Several Thousand Cavalry
With Artillery in Position to
Threaten Santa Cruz
Valley.
REGULARS' WIVES LEAVE
krmy Officers Prepare to Cope
With Possible Mexican
Cavalry Raid.
Nogales, Arizona. June 21. Coinci
dent with reports that Mexican troops
had arrived at Lomas, four miles
south of Nogales. with seven pieces
of artillery and that several thousand
Mexican cavalry had been massed in
a position to threaten the Santa Cruz
valley, wives of army officers at
tached to the 1,500 regulars here pre
pared today to leave for northern
points
Army officers in Nogales, In no way
alarmed, are preparing to cope with a
possible Mexican cavalry raid up the
Santa Cruz valley between Nogales
and Tucson, if a break should come.
It Is pointed out that all Soonra faces
starvation if the border remains clos
ed to food supplies, and that a foray
Into this section would be the logical
development
General Gomez Alarmed.
General Gomez is now at Frontjleras
with several thousand cavalry. Resi
dents here expressed alarm over the
fact that Colonel Aguleres' command
of '1,500 men reported last night to
have passed Lomas en route to Can
anea, had not yet been heard from in
that direction.
Reports that General Estrada on his
way from SInaloa to Magdalena with
about 5,000 troops and that Magdalena,
64 miles south of the border, Is to be
the headquarters of General P. Ellas
Calles are given credence here.
ISTE1 GOVERNORS
CALL OFF Itt
CONFERENCE
Portland, Ore., June 21. Develop
ments today Indicated that the fifth
annual Western Governors' confer
ence, scheduled to be held In Salt
Lake City, June 2G, would be post
poned. Governor James Withycombe,
of Oregon, secretary of the confer
ence, has announced that because of
tho Mexican situation ho would be un
able to attend.
Governor Withycombe received to
day a telegram from M. C. Riley of
Madison, Wis., secretary of the Na
tional Governors' conference, which
is scheduled to meet at Salt Lake
City at the same time, asking if the
western executives had abandoned
their meeting. It was stated at the
office of Governor Withycombe that
both organizations would take a poll
of their members and that, if only a
small number could attend, a post
ponement of the two conferences
probably would be announced shortly..
Governor Ernest Lister of Wash
ington, stated today that he also could
not be present. These are the only
officers of the conference.
Governor Morris Alexander of
Idaho, who was on the program as ono
of tthe principal speakers, also an
nounced today that he would not at
tend. CM)
Premier Skouloudis Resigns.
Athens, June 21, via Paris, 7:20 a.
m. The Neon Asty says that the re
signation of Premier Skouloudis prob
ably will be announced in parliament
today.
SPECIAL TRAIN OF FIVE CARS -BUGS
MM MERCHANTS
Sixty Automobiles at the Terminal of Electric Road From the
North Are Quickly Filled and a Tour of the City's Manu
facturing Plants Begun Day of Diversion Will
End With a Banquet at The Hermitage
in Ogden Canyon.
The Hermitage, Ogden Canyon, Where Banquet Will Be Held
' ' This Evening.
Ogdon, the manufacturing and job
bing center of Utah, through its
branch of the Utah Manufacturers' as
sociation, was host today to the mer
chants of Brigham City, Providence,
lloneyville, Collinston, Logan, Rich
mond, Smlthfield and Wellsville, Utah
and Fairview, Franklin, Preston and
Whitney, Idaho. Escorted by a spe
cial committee composed of James P.
Casey, secretary ofthe Ogden Publi
city bureau; Roscoe W. Eardley, sec
retary of the Utah Manufacturers' as
sociation; Joseph Scowcroft, Jr., of
the John Scowcroft & Sons' company;
Jack Wood of the Murphy Grocery
& Drug company; IT. L. Griffin, of the
Ogden Packing & Provision company;
W. E. Zuppann of tho Manufacturers'
publicity committee, and representa
tives of the J. S. Campbell company,
Ogden Wholesale Drug company and
Ogden Wholesale Grocery company,
the merchants arrived at the local ter
minal of the Ogden, Logan & Idaho
Railway company, on, O. L. & I. U'aiu
No. 2, at 11 a. m. today.
The train was operated under di
rection of General Manager P. D.
Kline; Auditor J. S. Bruorton, Supt.
of Transportation J. M. Read, and
Asst. Traffic Manager Laurie Dee.
The escort of Ogden men went to
Preston last night and boarded the
train there this morning with the
Preston delegation of merchants and,
at all of the stopping places, greeted
the other delegations as they joined
the party. En route to Ogden, each
member of the committee acted as an
entertainment committee of one, ex
plaining the many reasons for Ogden's
I recognition as one of the most im
portant Industrial and distributing
centers in the intermountain country
and putting the guests in a proper
frame of mind to enjoy the program
to be carried out during their visit to
this city.
When all of the cars parked on tho
rear platform of the depot had been
filled, the remaining members of the
nnrtv worn ponnrl a1 tVuvmfrVi tVif titn.
tion to the long line of autos on the
street. These were soon filled and
the parade, composed of nearly 60
cars, headed by a car driven by Presi
dent W. J. Parker of the Utah Can
ners' association, was started on Its
tour of tho city's manufacturing dis
trict. The different committeemen of the
manufacturers' association and other
members of the Weber club gathered
at tho interurban dopot on Twenty
fourth street more than a half hour
before tho arrival of the special train,
parking their automobiles on both
sides of the street, to await their oc
cupancy by the visitors. When the
train arrived, one hundred and seventy-five
northern merchants and six
teen committeemen, with spirits
heightened, rather than lowered by
the heavy rain of the morning hours,
were greeted by the Ogden people.
Each ono of the visitors had been sup
plied with a badge and colored but
ton, the latter bearing the words "I
am for Utah," and tho Logan repre
sentatives were made especially prom
inent through tho decoration of a red
badge, with the words "Ogden's Hos
pitality Appreciated," printed on it in
black letters. The merchants in the
party were:
Brigham City Thomas H.
Blackburn, A. B. dinger, Farmers'
Cash Union; W. F. Compton, proprie
tor the Rightway; John Forrest; V. L.
Hansen, Hansen Variety Store; Wil
Ham I llargis, manager Bonneville L.
Co ; Jesse W. Hoopes, Stohl Furniture
Co , W C Horsley, William Horsley
& Sons; H. C. Jacobson, Laurel Bak
ery; Ellas Jensen; Lawrence Jorgen
sen, Brigham Bulletin; Victor E. Mad
sen, Box Elder News; Rudolph Kais
er, Kaiser hotel; V. V. Phillips. Phil
lips &, Cummings; William Preston,
Hansen Mercantile company; D. L.
Reeder; N. E. Samsel, confectioner;
J. F. Sheffield, Cash Grocery & Meat
company; L. J. Smith; J. Francis Mer
rill, president Commercial club; Nels
Jensen; Mayor Erdman; R. L. Fish
burn; Mathias Bros, C Hoist; John
Pierce, Brigham City Canning com
pany. Providence, Utah Joseph A. Smith,
J. Reddish, Henry A. Theurer..
lloneyville, Utah. B. H. Tolman Sz
Son.
Collinston, Utah John R. Standing,
G. G. Sweeten, Evan Morgan, Morgan
& Sou.
Fairview, Idaho Chris Knudson,
Gilbort & Knudson; Mr. Gilbert, Gil
bert & Knudson.
Franklin, Idaho Peter Bowcut,
Cash Market; L. A. Qottle; W. H. Cot
tle; Ezra P. Monson; J. A. Neboker,
Kozy Kandy Korner.
Geneva, Utah N. C. Jeppsen, Jepp
sen Grocery; Oscar A. Jeppsen, Man
tua Co-op.
Hyde Park, Utah. James A. Dalnes,
C. C. Lee & Sons Co.; E. C. Leo.
Dewey, Utah N. B Marble; Fred
Golden, Waters &, Gordon.
Dayton, Idaho P. Jones.
Mendon, Utah Edward T. Bauer.
Hyrum, Utah James C. Anderson,
confectionery; R. A. Eliason, meats
and groceries; T. N Ilitton, Hyrum
Drug company; LeRoy Jensen, Jensen
grocery; Mr. Taylor, Home Mercantile
company; James Unsworth; Clara
Williams, Williams Economy "&tore;
Z W. Israelson, Allen Bros-; Jacob
Allgaier; C. H. Ralph, Utah Condensed
Milk company.
ie wiston, Utah J. at. Anderson,
Citizens Trading company; Fred El
wood, Elwood's Grocery; V. W. Fair
works, Eagle Clothing company; Low
Iston Supply company, Charles Pond;
James Grocery; R W. James, mana
ger Paradise Mercantile.
Preston, Idaho W. O. Anderson,
Ecsonomy Supply company; H. Earl
Belnap, Preston Lumber company; Ne
phi Larsen, John Larsen & Son; WI1
lard Larsen, John Larson & Son; W.
R. Smith, proprietor City Grocery;
C. A. Larson: W. S. Phillips. Palace
Market; Willam R. Smith, William R.
Smith Grocery; Peoples Meat Market;
J. Greaves, Jr.; C. G. Carlson, Lund
strom Furniture company; Felstead
Bros ; J. G. Smith Mercantile com
pany; City Bakery; Palm Drug com
pany; Watkln L. Roe, care of Citizen;
Harrison R. Merrill. cRre of Citizen;
Foss Bros.; J. S. Manom, Eagle Cloth
ing company; J. M. Christensen, the
Crystal; Senator James Johnson: C.
R. Hobbs; J. A. Luthy, Southeastern
Advocate; J. N. McCIurg.
Richmond, Utah A. A. Thomas; H.
F. Olsen; George T. Bennett, Mer
rill Bros. & Bennett C. Z. Harris Peo
ples Mercantile company; J. W.
Funk, Richmond Co-Op.; A. A. Olsen;
Mr. Hendricks, manager Utah Con
densed Milk companv; J. R. Murdock.
Smithfield, Utah H. W. JFern; A.
E. Merrill; Lorenzo ToolsTm, Union
Mercantile company; E. R. Miles; F.
J. Gordon; Robert Griffiths; William
Q, Anderson; O. A. Gutko, Palace
Meat .Market; John W. Harry, Smith
field Sentinel.
Whitney, Idaho Serge B. Benson.
Wellsville, Utah M. S. Rindskopf,
Sumpter Clothing company; John A.
Brown, Brown's Confectionery: Wil
liam H. Mjingham; Herman F. Theur
er, Golden Rule Store; Wellsville
Drug company; Wellsville Co-Op;
John Wyatt, Farmers Mercantile com
pany. Florence Elwood, Royal Millinery;
M. J. Swingard, Lewiston Mercantile
company; E. M. Van Orden, Lewis
ton Furniture & Hardware; P. B. Van
Orden, Lewiston Drug company; P. E.
.Van Orden, Lewiston Tribune.
Logan, Utah Anthon Anderson, An
derson fc Sons company; Mrs. M. H.
Bench; J. S. Bingham. College Meat
& Grocery; A. B. Cheney; C. M. Chris
tensen, Spande Furniture company;
Mrs. T. B. Davis, Depot Grocery; Jo
sepr B. Ewer; George Greeb, Jr., Oak
Confectionery; O. A. Garff, Logan
Cash Store; C. W. Hansen, Morrell
Clothing company; O L. Hansen, Tor
genson Studio; H. G. Hayball, Hay
ball Mercantile company; J. W. Mor
rell, Morrell Clothing company; E. R.
Owen, Utah Power & Light company;
Leo Nlelson, Economy Supply com
pany; William Cartrlght, Economy
Supply company; N. P. Johnson,
Economy Supply company; Sllvey
Johnson; Miss Edna Jorjenson. A.
Jorgenson; Herman Johnson, Palace
Grocery; Wiliam Swinegard. City
Drug company; John W. Leishmann,
Leishmann Grocery; G. W. Leish
mann, Murdock Candy company;
Malmrose & Sheffield; J. H Montgom
ery, Independent Newspaper; Helmar
Pcderson, Ideal Grocery; C. M. Peter
son, Independent Newspaper; J. W.
Quayle, James Quayle & Co.; Robert
Sheffield, City Grocery; Ras. Rasmus
son, Rasmusson Bazaar; S. O. Shan
chy. Cottage Grocery; W. E. Watson,
Cache Valley Drug company; W. F.
Jensen, Jensen Candy company; T. J.
Poulter, Fourth Ward store; George
Dunbar, manager Dunbar & Hyde; S.
B Sorenson, Chicago Meat Market;
Alex. M. Smith, Star Clothing com
pany; William 'Watson, manager Hay
ball Mercantile company; E. W. El
liott, manager Elliott & Hood; R. S.
McAllister, manager Co-Op Drug com
pany; W. M. Everton, manager EVer
ton & Sons: T.osran Journal: Lozan
Republican, J. C. Allen; M. R. Hovey,
secretary Boosters' club; A. G. Lund
strom, Lundstrom Furniture company;
Cache Valley Mercantile company;
Roy Shelton, Pnlace Grocery; Lorenzo
Hansen, Borden's Condensed Milk
company; J. S. 1 arson; P. A. Thatch
er, mayor; William Howell, Howell
Bros.; M. A. Gustavensen, Utah Con
sumers' company; J. H. Anderson;
William Smith; Chris Fonnesbeck;
Don Stewart, manager Logan hotel;
Joseph Newbold; Andreas Peterson;
Bell brothers.
Millville, Utah Mrs A. P. Ander-
(Continued on Page Thirteen.)
oo
GEN. PERSHING
SENDSJEPH!
Gives Mexicans Chance to
Make Good Threat, But
They Decline Issue.
TROOPS AT OJINAGA
Instructions to Funston Four
Regiments of Infantry and
Two Cavalry Regiments
to Be Organized at
Once.
San Antonio, Texas, June 21. Gen. !
oral Pershing has given the Mexican !
troops the opportunity to make good J
their threat to attack him if he moved
east or west, but the Mexican declined
the issue. ,
ne seat u. smuii iorcc eastwarq to
Guzman, about 35 miles from his line
of communication yesterday to inves
tigate a report that a concentration
of Mexican troops had been made
there. He reported the incident to
General Funston today, adding that
the detachment had returned without
finding any Mexican troops in that
vicinity.
Reports to department headquarters
today told of the arrival of more troops
at OJinaga, opposite Presidio, Texas,
and at Agua Prieta opposite Eagle
Pass. Beyond OJinaga increased ac
tivity -was noted but officers here be
lieved Colonel Gastro, commanding on
the American side has men enough to
meet the situation.
The heaviest addition to the Mexi
can army was opposite at Ojinagas,
where General Murgia arrived this
morning with 2,000 men.
General Funston Bald today that he
had not been able to confirm the ru
mor that Americans at Cerrelavo had
been murdered.
General Funston was notified by tho
war department today that detailed
instructions have been sent to him
for organization bj' him of four regi
ments of infantry and two cavalry
regiments under the army re-organization
bill which will become effective
July 1. Tho procedure will be to as
sign experienced non-commlssloned
officers from existing regiments to tho
new organization to handle the re.
cruiU.
. m,
EnriT il
ULI I .8 l
litAI I
I Uuu I
Czar's Troops Have f i!
Over 172,009 Prison- til
ers Defeat
Germans. til'
111
While the weight of German mill- IB H
tary power is being increasingly felt W Ejj
on the eastern front where It has stif- Is KJ
fened the Austrian resistance to the ! Hjf
drive of the Russians, the pressure 9l Mj j
on the French at Verdun has momen- fj Eft j
tarily lessened. 3 IcH
Athens dispatches forecast probable ft Ig1 j
changes in the Greek ministry as a if isj 5
result of the economic pressure which iffj
the allies have exerted because of S Jl&
their dissatisfaction with the Greek fi ESiiir
government's attitude. Resignation IK m
of the cabinet of Premier Skouloudis j ilML
is expected in some quarters. J ISli
Petrograd, June 21, via London, 7:30 S ljj 1
P. m. The war office announced to- -ff lw j
day that the number of men captured Et.j!
by the Russians in the offensive in H jj&,
Volhj'nia and Gaiicia up to Thurs- KK S
day of last week was 172.484. laf '
The official announcement says s HE a,
that. In a severe engagement on the ff Jm Si
Stokhod river, German troops which ( En
made an attack in massed formation, tf mtU
were repulsed and took to flight. f Kit"
"The total number of prisoners ta- Rj lf
ken by General Bruslloff from June 3 ffl
to 15 Inclusive," says the statement, rk;
"was 3350 officers and 169,134 men. miW
We also captured 198 guns, 550 ma- f Kali
chine guns, 189 bomb throwers, 119 J gPsR.
artilery limbers. 34 searchlights and a 1 1 Rgjjg
large quantity, of other war material." j Kmu I
v Army Cut In Two. if j.Jl
London, June 21, 12:11 p. m. Con- 5ll
firmation of reports of the cutting in (ji 94jl
two of General Pflanser's army In ! Wfll
Bukowlna are contained in a dispatch BHill
to the Star from Petrograd today. lfc ffjjfl
When the Austrlans retired from Czer- 1 1 P-'mI
nowitz the correspondent says, part of ' j gSigjl
them retreating due south along the f WKisI
Rumanian border an dothers toward Itnil
the Carpathians, their .hope was to 4jj Egwfl
have time to hold the Russians on the I j w3B
fortified line running from Kuty to If !JhM
Sereth along the rivers Mlkhorda and 1 1" glffl
Sereth. But despite the delay caused , c fflfM
by the prolonged defense of Czerno- Is fl
witz, General Letchltzaky threw his ji Ku'H
reserves upon the heels of the retreat- j jj iJL'B
ing Austrians at such speed that ho ' j mil M
succeeded in reaching that line sim- If 8&J&H
ultnneously with them. lff;fl
The result was that General Pflan- RrJM
ser's forces were cut in half midway f'ljfl
between Kuty and Sereth at Strogl- j jjUfH
net" tttNw
rlfrfl
Paris, June 21. 11:50 a. m. A vie- ji grajH
lent attack on the French positions j 'gftiiH
northwest of Rheiras was made by the I ;;tfH
Germans last night at Hill No. 100 (fSW
and in the direction of Berry-au-Bac, Js;HH
according to an official statement is- I)1r&'H
sued by the war office today. The Iltb!M
attack was repulsed by tho French ar- flltnfl
Lillery. I l.jr dH
The Germans exploded two mines W wi'jH
before launching their infantry against Kj S7;'jH
the French trenches. Their repulse, 1 nFH
.i.. u ft MfirriiH
' tne statement says, wts uue iu ma w rj,
effectiveness of the French screen 8 KH
fire. I tIH
In the Verdun sector no infantry $ H'1;H
action was reported but a mutual fijl
bombardment was maintained during luH
the night. PpI
The text of the statement follows: i j wfH
"South of the Somme. before Mau- B l'-"
court, a detachment of the enemy ft
which utfempted to approach our lines j PH
was dispersed with rifle fire e eIH
"Northwest of Rheims the Germans, ft EH
after exploding two mines delivered I F-jH
an attack against the trenches at Hill (1 IH
No. 10S south of Berry-au-Bac. Check- I lUH
ed by our curtain of fire thlB attack f H
was "defeated completely. ( H
"On both banks of the Meuse (Ver- t
dun front) our -artillery and that of "
the enemv were rather active during ' L'H
the night" 'H
:H
Hlndenburg Not Sunk. -
New York, June 21. The German J H
battleship Hindenburg did nottakfl vH
part, as unofficially reported, in the
sea battle between the British and H
German fleets off Jutland, according
to Charles Hagemeister, a banker oi i'l
Mexico City, whp arrived here today H
on tho steamship Oscar II from Copen- ,H
hagen. -H
Mr. Hagemeister said that two day -H
after the battle he was in a German j H
port, the name of which he would noi H
reveal, and saw there the Hindenby' J H
riding at anchor without a mar" I rH
