VOL. XXV. MANNING, S. C., WEDNESDAY, JUNE 21, 1916. NO. 25
WOODROW WILSON
AND To R, MARSHALl
ARE RENOMINATE
National Democratic Conve
tion Acclaims Leader of Fo
Years as Party's Choice f
Another Four Years. - Bryn
Speaks to Delegates for
Minutes.- Marshall Opp'o:
tion Melts. Suffragists Actin
NO DISCORD MARS WORK
OF THE BIG CONVENTII
Delegates Growing Weary of Walti
The Rules Committee Changed 1
Program by a Unanimous Vote
the Nomination Took Place Thu
day Night-Only one Vote Agal
President Woodrow Wilson.
t PRESIDENT NOTIFIED.
-#
Washington.-President Wil
son was notified at 1 o'clock
Friday morning by Secretary
Tumuity that he and Vice Presi
dent Marshall had been nomi
nated by acclamation at the St.
Louis convention. His only
comment was:
"I am very grateful to my
generous friends."
Coliseum, St. Louis.-President V
son and Vice President Marshall w
nominated by acclamation by the Di
ocratic National Convention, the ti
et being completed four minutes
fore Friday.
Marshall Opposition Melted.
There never was any doubt of Pi
ident Wilson's nomtnation but ti,
was a possibility that some vice pi
idental booms might be brought
in opposition to Vice President N
shall. They melted away, howeN
when the convention got in sessi
and as soon as President Wilso
nomination had been made a roar
chorus of acclamation, Senator Ke
who renominated Mr. Marshall, c
aide a long- prepared spec., a
simply declared:
"I nominate Thomas Riley Marsh
of Indiana for vice president."
To President Wilson's nominat
there was -.: :y one dissenting vC
Robert Emmett Burke of Illinois, a
came to the convention announci
that he was opposed to the preside
His vote technically made the pri
dent's nomination, 1.091 to 1.
Firemen Halt Bryan.
The Collseum was so full that1
fire department took charge of the
trances and permitted no more
come in. William J. Bryan, howe;
managed to get by and got an
roarous reception. Senator Jan
learned of the Nebraskan's plight :
rescued him.
At 9:15 o'clock Chairman Jar
rapped the convention to order. 1
Rev. W. J. Hardesty. chaplain of
Missouri senate, offered prayer. Al
the prayer the crowd renewed
demands for a speech from Bryar
Senator Thompson moved a susi
elon of the rules to permit Mr. Br:
to speak. There were some "no
but the chairman ruled two-thi
had voted in favor.
A committee headed by Sens
Kern escorted Mr. Bryan to
speaker's place while the floor:
galleries roared their approval.
Speaks 45 Minutes.
Senator James introduced Mr. I
an as "one of the leading citizens
the world and America's grea
Democrat." Bryan after speaking
minutes. was loudly cheered.
Then the roll of the states
called for nominations. Alab:
ylelded to New Jersey and Ju
John W. Wescott nominated Pr
dent Wilson.
Judge Wescott spoke very slo
At the rate he uttered his first
words it would require about one b
and twenty minutes to conclude.
The delegates were attentive
quiet as Judge Wescott procee
but the galleries were impatient.
"Name him. name him," came c
from the galleries, and Judge T
cott hurried his speech.
As he closed at 10:49 with a z
tion of the name of "Woodrow
son" the crowd broke Into a g
demonstration. Moving picture fi
lights blazed and flags were para
in front of the stand. The band i
ed "The Star Spangled Bam~
while a huge banner bearing
President's likeness was unfu
from the roof.
Demonstration for Wilson.
The delegates began a parade I
ing state stanc'hions. The crowd:
to Its feet. Many delegates stood
their chairs. "Dlxie" and other:
odies by the band evoked fresh bu
of cheering.
Chairman James yielded the c
during the demonstration to RE
senative H{eflin of Alabama. Wo
delegates werd among the parad
Senators and representatives he
Gracious Manners.
The charm of gracious maxner
consideration for other human bei
ris a quality that develops rapidi:
given half a chance. The woman',
is always kind creates an atmospi
of loveliness that is like a halo at
her head. If you are naturally shy
reticent it is all the more necess
that you should endeavor to shir
bit. It is not lack of pleasant thou,
that worries the self-conscious, but
fear of giving expression to them.
must try to make yourself compar
abla to others.
Renominated For President
n.
or
Dr
in
0
IN
,Ig,
he} "
nd
re
mst
711
WOODROW WILSON
carry banners. Senator Hughes per- On motion of Senator Hughes th
es sonally bore the New Jersey fag. rules were suspended and no ballot
,, Sergeant-at-Arms Martin stirred up whatever were taken. The delegate
the enthusiasm by waving the Texas simply roared "aye" when the name
>ut "Lone Star" flag. handed over the of Wilson and Marshall were caller
rheads of the crowd from the chair- and Chairman James declared ther
man's rostrum. Other state f nominated by acclamation.
were takah to the platform. The Crowds Rushes Out.
crowd joined in singing a melody. Many delegates and spectator
Seluding "How Dry I Am," "Old. Black made a rush for the exits when th
r Joe," "The Red, White and Blue." and vice presidential nomination wa
st others. made and Senator James with grea
nd difficulty restored order.
After the demonstration had been Practically all of the delegates re
all underway 30 minues, New York and. n~ained but the galleries en:ptie
some other delegates resumed their quickly.
on seats. Resolutior.; were then adopted al
Waving a cane over the rail at the !
te, pointing Ch: frman James and forme
ho chairman's desk, Senator Hughes re- Governor .iynn of New York, chair
ng newed the clamor by leading three man of committees, respectively, t
at. cheers for the President. notify the President and Vice Pres:
si.. No Effort at Control. dent of their nominations.
The band exhausted the list of Seao lge, agr n a
popular national airs, then turned to dmnwr pone acne i
he"Tipperary." and the crowd joined in thea wetfre apomite twice wt]
hthe chorus. Then the musicians went thwatfseom commanfitt wichread
back to American airs. Some of the wsi eso olani twsra
tdelegates stopped long enough to rert
edrain pop bottles and then went back
ato it again. The hand was so vigorous - '"'~
1s keeping up the din the musician
nwent short of breath. icly laid back
and let the bass drun er perform.
xes alone for a while. He belabored his
'he drum industriously until the bandsmeni
the got their second wirnd and then w~eat. -
iback to "Tipperary."a
$sThere was no attempt to control the
crowd. Men and women over-ran the *
en- platform and the press sections at
ran will. The passages to the telegrp
es rooms were so packed with pers-ons
rswho had no business in the vicinity
that only those who had their tele- -T
.tor graph instruments on the platfrmL
the1 could send the news of the conveii
ntion to the outside world. The police
made no effort to control the situa
tioni.*
ry- The crowd roared when several wo-~ ~ "
of men suffrage workers with golden
:est umbrellas and yellow sweaters; moun
45j ed the platform and held a sunirage
umbrella ov-er the head of Represeni- s
was tative Heflin. one of the most vigor
ma ous "antis" in Congress. He appar- -
dge ently enjoyed the situation.
esi- The New York delegation, who had
I to THOMAS R. MARSHALL
been seated, were againi forcedt
ly. arise by insistent clamor from nearby Rencrminated for Vice President.
300 delegations.
ourI The band. its repertoire taxed. final- DEORT WREJLY
ly turned to "On the Banks of the
and Wabash" and "Turkey in the Straw." St. Louis.-The predomninating fe:
ded Seconding Speeches Made. ture of t~he St. Louis conivention is th~
At 11:30 all but a few dleg'a' a Ltes ;. X-ixros ThsJdli
ries had taken their seats and at '1:3: n"'nt have~ '1w or'cd and ar'tificia
es- Chairman James sounded the 'irt " 'rrv d hure. but it becam
gavel rap. The demonstration ha'i ..- attr G '"nn's famous keyno
len- lasted 45 minutes. .- an i' earnes t after the a.
WTi- The roll call of states was r'esue dress o 0'1:W aames. They are g >in
reat nd Arizona yielded to Ohio. Former hiome'.~L wr .snated 'onvi('tor
sh- Governor Harmon made the first ee that vi.'ory is otz'in inNovembe
.ded nding speech. for P''ea e. Preirity and Prepaare<
lay- "I came on behalf of the Ohio dele- Ii5i
ie-" gation'! he said. "representing~ the T' 'oniontion sc:nes nave been<
the unanimous wish of the Ohio D"emoe. spnamui lntu.iastic chara
rled racy to second the nomination of ter. 0 no oa one~ wOCnI nral
Woodrow Wilson foir Presidenit of the og was 'tits be':. Cooi Bry'a
United States." '-led tei":-xgvin~g pubhlic manifestatio
ear-' The second seconding speech was to hi. em4otial disposition, lHe wa
:o made by Governor Stuart of \'irginlia. trneadi by the convention as a goc
on to whom the Ark-ansis de'lega fon felo and no doubt is entertaine
thteilprmie o do campaign woi
rsts Referring to Virginia "as the mouth n ~'~ 'wi.l. l beteformed whol
er of Presidents." Governor Stuart re. ve.Uy. C'o oe Bryan has occi
tiair erred to the President as "'her cl;I'.3.lied at wnh the newspaper eo
,,-tros o. respond--n.ts :o one side of the pla
:nen After Governor Stuart concluded ; 'pr'~dnt andl his black-fringe
.rs. the delegates wanted to no ;xa hs on ..oiuusf
tped longer and crie-l *vote- vote."- o-aantdlnsae
French Politeness.
a~nd As a polite nation the French un- SssCwllinimay.
ngs fdoubtedly lead the world, thinks a ~ (O~Il5ue nSizra
rif contributor to a British weekly. Thehaear'uirstn.rte or
who other day a Paris dentist's servant abends'.'rdtttirsfr
tere opened the door to a woebegone pa
out tient. "And who, monsie'ur," he ouer
and ed in a tender tone, "shall I have theSws oblslarncnmtdu
ary misery of announcing?'"ate
ThetswbKlseuced inSwiterea
~ T kep cees fom oldng un l ineth ier hmng Wrlnatin.
et easn srea thecutsurac aol weeidsoverly twnt tiesa
Winy wth utintuc the Himays own ~a pofwter.onf
PRESIDENT CALLS
OUT ALL MILITIA
100,000 STATE TROOPS ORDERED
TO MOBILIZE AND P.REPARE
FOR SERVICE.
TO GUARD MEXICAN BORDER
This Move Will Release 30,000 More
Rejular Soldiers To Be Used As In
vadcrs.-Secretary Daniels Orders
War Vessels to Mexico.
Washington.-Virtually the entire
mobile strength of the National Guard
of all states and the District of Colum
bia has been ordered mustered into
the Federal service by President Wil
son. About 100.000 men are expected
to respond to the call. They will be
mobilized immediately for such ser
vice on the Mexican border as may
later be assigned to them.
Gen. Frederick Funston. command
ing the border forces will designate
the time and place for movements of
guardsmen to the international line as
the occasion shall require.
In announcing the orders Secretary
Baker said the state forces would be
employed only to guard the border
and that no additional troop move
ments into Mexico were contemplated
except in pursuit of raiders.
Simultaneously with the National
Guard call, Secretary Daniels of the
Navy Department ordered additional
war vessels to Mexican waters on both
coasts to safegard American lives.
At the War, Navy and State De
partments it was stated that no new
advices as to the situation in Mexico
had come to precipitate the new cr
ders.
Within the last two weeks, how
ever, tension has been increasing
steadily. The crisis presented by Gen
eral -Carranza's note demanding the
recall of General Pershing's expedi
- tionary force has been followed by a
virtual ultimatum served on the
American officer by General Trevino,
B Mexican commander in Chihuahua.
To this was added the possibility that
American and Mexican troops had
clashed across the border from San
Benito, Texas.
Administraticr officials made no
attempt to conceal their relief over
the safe return of Major Anderson's
cavalry squadron to Brownsville, after
their successful bandit chase. The
troopers crossed in pursuit of bandits
in the face of intimations that they
would be attacked if they did so. Gen
eral Funston himself reported that he
anticipated fighting, presumably with
Carranza troops.
Mobilization of the National Guards
men to support General Funston's line
will pave the way for releasing 30,000
regulars for immediate service in
-tMexico in the event of open hostilities
with the Carranza government. The
1guardsmen themselves could not be
used beyond the line without author
ity of Congress and until they had vol
unteered for that duty, as they are
called out under the old militia law.
The new law, which would make them
available for any duty under the Fed
eral government goes into effect
July 1.
Funston Now Has 40,000.
The entire mobile regular army in
the United States. several provisical
regnents of regular coast artillery.
servmng as infantry, and the National
Guard of Texas, New Mexico and Ari
zona are now on the border or in
Mexico. Definite figures never have
been made public, but it is understood
General Funston has about 40,000 reg
ulars. and probably 5,000 or more
gardsnmen of whom 10.000 regulars
are with General Pershing or scatter
ed along his line of communications
from Naminquipa, Mexico, to Colum
bus, N. M.
Telegrams calling for the militia
were sent to the Governors of all
states execpt the three whose guards
men already have been mustered in,
after all-day conferences at the War
Department attended by Secretary
Baker, Major General Scott, Chief o~
Staff. Major General Bliss, Chief C.4
the Mobile Army, and Brigadier Ge'i
eral Mills. chief of the militia divia
ion general staff.
750 MEXICAN TROOPS
GO TO NUEVO LAREDO
L aredr., Texas.-Five hundrcd In
Sfa~trymen and 250 artillerymen of the
Mexican army arrived in Neuvo La
Credo. Mexico. opposite here, and pa
lraded through the streets of thai
Stown. The p)arade was witnessed by
a large but orderly ernwd.
An an ti-American1 demonstration
is renor-ted to have been prevented
in Neuvo Laredo by General de la
G arza.
RUSSIANS FORCE AUSTRIANS
aTO EVACUATE CZERNOWIT2
London.-Czernlowitz. capital of thl
Austrian Crowland of Bukowina, is 1r
dth hxands of the Russians. and the
kustrians who had been holding it ard
Sin r etreat toward the Carpathial
M ountains. Hard fighting took placi
in the capture of the Czernowit:
bdgehead and in the passage of thi
Riv.er Pruth, htt \when fmnally 'the
Eusians gained the right Mznk of thl
ri r the Austrians evacuated the
-vitl.
Resigned.
dThe~ \inister's Wife-"The new coo:
left this morning, the one you said tha
tLord must have sent." The Ministe:
t-"Well, dear, the Lord giveth and th,
CLord taketh away. Blessed be thi
Aname of the Lord."-Puck.
Sad Fact
Ag cannot wither nor custom stale
the ifinite sadn?ess af entries on the
ight-hand page of the bank book.
STATE UNIVERSITi
ENDS NOTABLE YEAR
OVER ONE HUNDRED YOUNG
MEN AND WOMEN RECEIVE
DEGREES.
BENNETT DELIVERS ADDRESS
Strong Appeal for Life Plan Built
Upon High ideals is Urged by
The Eminent Divine.
Columbia.-The 111th year of the
University of South Carolina came to
an end with the annual graduating
exercises and the June ball.
The Rev. R. H. Bennett, D.D., of
Emory University presented a strong
lesson in his literary address before
the graduating class. "I am going to
give you a few arrow heads pointing
to success," said Dr. Bennett, and he
urged that the young men and young
women go forth on the battlefield of
life with a fixed purpose, with a fixed
motive, with the idea of service se
curely lodged in their minds, with an
everlasting determination to succeed.
regardless' of obstacles, and always;
remembering that only a pure char- I
acter is a strong one.
The Joseph Daniel Pope medal for1
the best essay on "Equity," written
by a member of the senior law class,
was won by Shannon Wallace. The
presentation was made by J. Nelson
Frierson, professor in the school of
law.
Two honorary degrees were confer
red. Prof. James I. McCain of Ers
kine College was given a doctor of let
ter and Prof. William Cain of the
University of North Carolina was
given a doctor of laws degree.
William Spenser Currell, president
of the university, said that he could
not let the fine body of young men and
young women leave the university
without a final word from him, and he
paid tribute to their work and-to their
part in making this year at Carolina
what it has been.
- Dr. Curreli announced that here
after students would be admitted -on
12 units but that the other two to
make a total of 14 units must be made
up in the college in addition to the
regular college work before a degree
would be conferred. In case a student
comes from a school of 14 or more
Iunits, then 14 units will be required
for entrance.
New Concrete Pier Accepted.
Charleston.-The new concrete pier
and berthing slip constructed at the
Charleston navy yard at a cost of
$300,000 to the United States govern
ment has been finished and finally ac
cepted by the federal authorities af
ter an inspection by a board of offi
cers at the head of whom was Civil
Engineer Reid, public works officer
at the yard. Along with the pier has
been built a concrete retaining wall
against the shore which thus providesj
a protected basin which will be dredg-I
ed so as to provide berthing and dock
ing facilities for vessels of the tor
pedo boat destroyer type.
This pier projects out for a dis
tance of 300 feet. It rthen turns at
right angles down stream for a dis
ance of 450 feet. It is built almost
entirely of concrete, the piles being.
of that material, reinforced with
steel rods. The flooring Is also of
concrete. Some of the piles are close
to 90 feet in length. The inclosed
basin between the arm of the L and
the retaining wall will be dredged. It
nowv varies from 3 to 20 feet in depth.
The pier is not as long as originally
planned. ' The cause of this is that
the piles had to be sunk to a depth*
of S0 and 90 feet in most places in
stead of the orginal 30 and 40 as esti
mated.
Boy Drowns In River.
Spartanburg.-Harry Taylor, the
14-year-old scr. of Mr. and Mrs. Har
ry Taylor of this city, was drowned
in Linville riv':r, near Linvills Falls,
. C.. accordin; to a message receiv
ed here. He wis a member of a camp
ing pa'rty of ooys accompanied by the
Re-,. H. K. Pendleton, rector of the
Church cL the Advent of this city.
DIplomas Given Cadet Menfl
Charleston.-Despite bad weather,
many friends and relatives of the grad
uating class of the Citadel gathered
a-t the German Artillery hall to wit
ness the exercises which marked the
climax of the academic careers of 31
young men, the recipients of diplo
mas. The cadet band added to the oc
casion by dispensing music. Dr. W.
T. Ellis of the faculty of Swarthmore
College delivered an exceptionally
stong address upon "The World
War's Challenge to American Patriot
ism." Medals were presented.
Woman Killed in Accident.
Rock Hill.- M.re. Belle Phillips, wi
aw of the late Vander Phillips of
Rockingham, N. C., was almost in
stantly killed when -train No. 114,
Charlotte to Columbia, crashed into
an aomobile at Steele's crossing
near the city limits. The rear of the
machine was demolished, but the oth
er occupants escaped injury of conse
quence. Mrs. Phillips, with her two
children, a boy of 12 years and a gir-l
of 7 years. was coming -to Rock Hill
o visit her brother, George McKen
zie, of the Aragon village.
Seek to Set Goo~d Example.
The blossom cainnot :':11 wh-at be
comes of the. odor. a i no nia: c-m1 tel:
what becomes of his exan:pie, thiat
rolls away from~ him, andJ goes beyund
his ken on its perilous mission.-K
W. Beecher.
Have a Care.
for auto speeding at least should have
the consolation that in the next world
he'll never be accused of scorching in
devn .an..-...Mira Sentinel.
MEXICO THREATEN
NEW HOST"il!TI[
FRESH SHOW OF ENMITY
CARRANZA'S NEW THREAT
TO PERSHING.
BANDITS AND TROOPS CLA:
Soldiers Sleep on Arms.-U. S. C1
mander Told That Any Movemeni
Troops Except Toward Bor
Would be Considered Hostile.
THREATENS WARFARE.
I
Chihuahua City, Mexic.
Gen. Jacinto Trevino, com
? manding the Carranza army of
the North advised General
Pershing, American expedition.
I ary commander, that any move
ment of American troops from
i their present lines to the south,
east, or west would be consider.
ed a hostile act and a signal to
commence warfare. .General
Trevino acted upon spc ific in
structions from Carranza.
Washington.-There were no Ind
tiens here that the Administratic
determination to continue the c
paign against bandits in Mexico we
in any way be altered by General
cino's reported threat to begin hos
ties if the American troops move f3
their present positions in any di:
tion except toward the border.
General Pershing's orders autl
ize him to move in any directions
finds necessary. Secretary Baker ,
in St. Louis but the general imp
sion prevailed that these orders WC
not be changed.
There is no fear of an immed
clash, however, for officials ~ bell
General Pershing would avoid tal
any steps that might lead. to serf
consequences until he had comm
cated with Washington. The war
partment had no word from his
from any other source to confirm
report of General Trevino's action
Recent troop movements in Chi]
hua state have led officials here
fear that the de facto commanc
were preparing for some hostile mi
The Mexican forces now are disi
uted in detachments of considers
strength on two lines, converging f:
points near the border east and v
of General Pershing's line and m
ing at a point south of his field I
at Naminquipa. The effect has t
to enclose the American troops i
gigantic V.
This disposition of Carran:
forces has been one of the base!
suspicion here as to his friendly
tentions. While the Mexicans arf
posted, officials declare they ca:
be in good faith conducting anyc
paign against bandits. The brea
of these forces into small parties
scour the country for outlaws is
of the conditions which would be
manided by the United States be:
the American expedition could be
called.
PROGRESSIVES OPEN PEACE
TREATY WITH REPUBLICi
Perkins and Whitman Confer Resp
Ively with Roosevelt and Hught
and Cornpare Notes.
New York.--George W. Perkins,
ter a series of conferences with C
nel Roosevelt and Governor M
man announced that negotiations y
under way looking to a "restoratio>
the good feeling" between the
gressive and Republican parties.
Mr. Perkins saw Governor 'E
man just after the governor had<
ed u,on Charles E. Hughes.
Progressive leader then returned
call upon Colonel Roosevelt. He
long talks with both.
Colonel Roosevelt appeared to
surprised when told of Mr. Perk
statement.
"I know nothing whatever a'
that." he declared. "'I have notl
to say. If I have anything to so
will say it unaer my own signatu
AMERICAN TROOPS ARE
HELD UNDER AF
El Paso. Texas. -- All Ameri
troops, stationed in El Paso and
environs were ordered to quarters
be held under arms un-til further
tice. The orders followed rep
to military headquarters that place
printed in Spanish had been pot
in Juarez instructing citizens to g
er at designated points daily to
ceive military instructions that
may be prepared to repel possible
vasion.
STRIKE SITUATION IS NOT
HOPELESS, SAYS LEADI
Now York.--Although 500,000 st:
ballots were ordered printed here
the delegates of the four rail:
brothe:hoods who failed to reach
agreement with the railroads in t:
demands for shorter hours and hi1
overtime pay, leaders of the men
represetait!ves of the railroads
said that while the situation is seri
it is not hopeless. All leaders
in secret day-long confe:-onces.
Nothing to Be Proud Of.
Those who say they will for.
but can't forget an injury sinz
bury the hatchet while they leave
handle out ready for immediate1
-Dwight TL. Moody.
No Need to Worry.
Girlie-"I've been reading, Hai
that kissing is hygienically una
and think of the number of times
have kissed me." Harold-"Oh,
'there's safety in numbers,' youky
s EPWORTH LEAGUE DIVIDES
Last State Conference Adjourns - at
Laurens-Each Conference Elects
New Officers.
Laurens.-With a soul stirring ad
dress on the theme, "The Response of
Youth to the Call of Christ Today,"
IN delivered by Chas.. G. Hounshell of
New York, traveling secretary of the
Christian Volunteer Movement of
America the 23rd annual session of the
South Carolina State Epworth League
conference came to a close at the
'H First Methodist church at Laurens,
where all the sessions of the confer
ence were held. A peculiar sadness
pervaded the closing exercises of the
)m- league meetings because of the fact
of that this is the last conference that
der the state league as a whole will be
privileged to hold, the conference hav
ing voted for a division of the state
league.
The South Carolina State league ac
cepted the invitation of the First
Methodist church at Sumter to hold
its first annual session with it in
1917. The executive committee of
the Upper South Carolina conference
league has the matter of selecting a
meeting place for its 1917 session.
The .two conferences elected officers
for another year. For the South Caro
lina State Conference League Dr. S.
J. Summers of Cameron was elected
president, J. M. Ariall of Columbia
vice president, Miss Emma Moss of
Norway secretary, N. E. Nesmith of
Kingstree treasurer, Miss Mary E.
Winn of Columbia editor, Mrs. W. H.
.... McCormick of Charleston junior super
intendent, Miss Estelie Williams of
ic- Charleston Era agent.
m's For the Upper South Carolina Ep
am- worth League J. Casper Smith of
uld Waterloo was elected president, Jas.
('re- E. Ellis of Columbia vice president,
till- Miss Sallie Bell Watt of Columbia
*om secretary, Miss Bessie Reed of Co
rec- lumbia treasurer, Miss Marie L. Zim
merman of Columbia editor, Miss
or- Grace Killingsworth of Columbia Era
he - agent, Mrs. J. P. Gray of Woodruff
was junior superintendent. As will be
res- noted, the officers for the Upper South
iuld Carolina league are practically the
same who have served the state con
lateI ference league the past year and for
eve some years back, as in the case of
ng Mr. Smith, who has been president
ous for three years.
uni
de- Evans Succeeds on Committee
or lumbiaJohn Gary Evans, of
the Spartanburg, has been elected Demo
cretic national committeemen from
South Carolina according to advices
ua- received in Columbia Mr. Evans is also
to state chairman. Mr. Evans succeeds
lers Senator B. R. Tillman, who desired
ove. to retire from the national committe.
Ole Committee assignments of the South
ible Carolina delegation to the national
rom Democratic convention at St. Louis
were contained in a telegrami received
eet at the governor's office.
e The delegation meeting in St Louis
een elected Gov, Manning as chairman
a a The following are the committee as
signments: Committee on platform,
za's E. D. Smith; commitee on rules,
of Tristram T. Hyde; committee on
. in- credentials, W. P. Pollock; commit
so tee on pe''manent organization, L. D.
mot Jennings. W. P. Polllock was named
:am- to second the nomination of President
.kup Wilson.
to Bright Williamson was named as a
one' member of the committee to notify
de- President Wilson of his nominaation.
tore John P. Thomas, Jr., of Columba was
re- named as a member of the committee
sto notify the vice president:
Contract For Library Let.
tNS Sumter.-The contract for Sumter's
Carnegie library, has been awarded
ect- to a Sumter contractor, the building
as and equipment to cost $10,000. The
plans have been submitted to the Car
af- negie board and as soon as they and
oo- the cohtract amr aspproved the work is
rit- to be commenced. It is expected that
ere the building will be completed and
a of ready for use within six months.
Pro-.
Charter Orangeburg Packing House.
hit-. Orangeburg.-That a packing house
:all- wi-ll be established at Orangeburg Is
The now assured, as $150,00 capital has
to been subscribed. The Orangeburg
had Packing Company has secured a com
mission from the secretary of state
be and pursuant to same books of sub
ins' scription were opened on June 14 at
offices of Moss & Lide for the purpose
:out of stock subscribing. The authorized
iing capital stoch of the company Is $200,
SOUTH CAROLINA NEWS ITEMS.
IMS The Woman's Missionary union of
the Upper South Carolina Methodist
[can conference, in session at Union, voted
its to accept the invitation of Rock Hill
St to hold the 1917 meeting in that city.
no- Information just received would in
orts dicate that Fred D. MacLean, the
td young tutor at Newberry College who
sted mysteriously disappeared May 14, has
ath. crossed the border of the United
re States into Canada and has joined the
hey forces of the Dominion in either Otta
In. wa or Toronto.
Congressman Ragsdale has secured
another free delivery route for his
-R district, this time at Hemmingway,
.SWilliamsburg county. It will become
reeffective August 1.
ri The institute for the members of the
by girls' canning clubs of Sumter county
-oad and 70 girls in attendance.
an In an election a~t Graniteville for
heir compulsory education, 33 votes were
'her cast for and only one against.
and Miss Annie Mae McLendon, agent
oth of the home economics work in Flor
ous jene county, is arranging to have all
rere of her canning club girls In Florence
for a short course in July.
Fish as Fertilizing Material.
- Herring. great quantities of which
leare caught in Japan each year, are
they used chiefly to fertilize rice fields.
Optimistic Thought.
There is sometimes more to be
feared from the physician than frn
rold, the disease.
you Truth About the Poor.
rell, A great deal of undeveloped and
m." lost talent has belonged among God's
BECAUSE OF BRUIN
By CATHARINE CRANMER.
The most confirmed case of blues
will fly in the face of a sunny spring
morning, especially when the sufferer
is a pretty girl of twenty.
Dorothy swung along over the
smooth slopes, stooping often to gath
er wood violets or to listen to the sing
ing of the birds.
"It's too lovely a world to be un
happy in," she murmured. A squir
rel gave a harsh and saucy .bark.
"That's right, little fellow," retorted
Dorothy, seating herself on a- park
bench; "Just scold when things don't
suit you. rm going to scold, too, and
give mother and daddy to understand
that I don't care how blew John Mow
bray's blood is or how L4 his bank no
count or how good his chances to be
come governor."
Suddenly the chorus of birds ended
in a quavering chit-chat. Dorothy
looked about and saw a full-grown
black bear leisurely sauntering toward
her. She sprang from her seat and
ran for the nearest roadway.
She looked back once and saw the
bear galloping toward her, but she did
not see two park laborers bearing
down on him. Neither did she see a
lone young golfer strolling cityward
until she rushed directly into him.
The force of their collision sent the
young man's glasses flying and they
broke into bits.
"The devil!" he muttered.
"Oh, I'm sorry," she gasped, "but it's
really coming right after me."
"What's 'coming? The devil?"
"No, you stupid; the bear!" Dor
otby's high-wrought tension almost
snapped and the tears hung on her
lashes. Seeing no bear or other cause
for her agitation, the young man
looked puzzled, but the next-instant
perplexity gave way to a riotous smile.
Down the road came the two park lar
borers with the captive bear. Dor
othy quickly snatched a bill from her
purse and flung It at the astonished
young man.
"There! Pay for your old glasses
and stop laughing at me!" She fled
behind the shrubbery and after her
went the young man.
"I say!" he stammered, as he
reached her side and trotted along
with her, "I'm'sorry I was nasty about
the glasses, and you must. take this
back."
His laugh was too infectious to be
resisted, and Dorothy laughed, too.
They slowed up as they reached the
seat she had vacated and dropped into
it. Between bursts of laughter, she
explained that when the bear had
frightened her it was galloping toward
her, with never a keeper insight.
"If I hadn't already been wrought
up, maybe it wouldn't have frightened
me so." Then she surprised him by
suddenly asking: "If somebody tried
to make you marry a woman twice as
old as you just because she was rich
and influential, what would you do?"
"Fm afraid I should decline."
"But because I'm young and silly
and want to stay that way, daddy
won't take me seriously whep. I de
cline; so I'm going to run away."
"Oh, don't do that," he pleaded.
"Why not head off the old man 15
marrying a young one?"
"Well, rm sure I don't want to mar
ry anybody just now," plaintively. A
moment later she stamped he small
foot defiantly. "And daddy ne"en't
try to thrust me upon old John Mow- -
bray."
"John Mowbray!" exclaimed the
young man. Dorothy clapped her hand
over her mouth and fled.
All day Dorothy avoided her parents
because of the scene at brakifast fol
lowing their annOuncement that they
had invited John Mowbray and his
widowed sister and her children to an
informal dinner that evening. They
also openly admitted that they had
hopes of having John Mowbray for a
son-in-law and had reason to believe
that he also had such an ambition.
Their precipitate mention of the plans
caused Dorothy to begin at once to
find excuse for despising her father's
professional friend, whom she had
hitherto regarded with polite Indiffer
ence. She passed an uncomfortable
day, and as the dinner hour ap
proached she mentally pictured their
guests as a tiresome lot, although she
hadn't even inquired about their num
ber, their age or their sex.
In a simple dinner gown of white net
with a blue girdle, with her blond hair
softly knotted at the back and with
her blue eyes deeply serious, she en
tered the living room from the rear
just as her mother was greeting the
arriving guests. First, her mother
presented her to Mrs. Elwood, a wom
an of fifty; then came Miss Elsie El
wood, in her early teens, and then
from the hall entered John Mowbrdy
and Dorothy's father and with them
came the young man .vhose glasses
she had shivered that moring in the
park.
"My nephew, Jack Elwood, Miss Dor
othy," said John Mowbray, and the
embarrassment of the young people
was happily unnoticed.
When John Mowbray became gov
ernor that fall, Dorothy's father was
appeased at losing him as a son-in-law
and rewarded for the political aid
given him by seeing Dorothy, as the
wife of his favorite nephew, preside
as the mistress of the governor's man
sob. But, except themselves, nobody
ever knew why the locket that Dor
othy gave Jack on their wedding day
had a tiny black bear enameled on one
side ecfit.
(Copyright, 1916, by the McClure Newspa
per synSicate.).
Positively turasonable.
French servant (to marketman)
"What! Ten francs for a chicken!
Are you mad? Why, that's equal to
the price I've been charging my mis
tress for the fowl?"-L'Illustration.
Forgotten for the Moment.
hearted are quite as selfish as others.
The man who says he couldn't stand
I t to kill a chicken does his full share
to a chMiken dinne, ust theanme.
