tUDAVb PRICES
.. bank note mate bills) IS
M x in pesira M-ii an gold
" Nil nales bills 17 , Carranza.
1 1 - tn-) 4V Bar IUer
J Harmon quotations) 1H -
I - J Orain" Irregular Lietoc1c
-v; higher
HOME EDITION
ElS
WEATHER FORECAST.
IH Pao ami wt Teu. fair: 'New
Mexico fair; Arizes, fair, cooler Berth
EL PASO. TEXAS. WEDNESDAY EVENING. JUNE 21. 19I6
- ,- '
LATFST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
MNOI F COPT FIVE CENTS
I I I .V I AVTWHERE 0 CENTS A MONTH.
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
ARR ANZ A AND CABINET READ U. S. NOTE
i
'American Commander Sends
Men 35 Miles lo Guzman;
No Fighting Follows.
SCOUTS FIND NO
MEXICAN TROOPS
Funslon Will Assign Non
commissioned Officers to
Drill the Recruits.
AV 4VTONIO, Texas. June IL
Brig Gen J. J. Pershing has giv-
" en the Mexican troops the oppor- j
tunity to make good their threat to t
attack him if he moved east or west,
but the Mexicans declined the issue.
TTe sent a small force eastward to
Onr ?n about 35 miles from his lin-J
of communication, Tuesday to investi
gate a report that a concentration of
MiLfln tronnft hnj hn mnrfo fhwA 1
H. reported the incident to Gen. Puns- j
T,n tod.,, adding that the detachment I
y.a -,.,.-., ... . ., I
had returned without finding any Mex- I
,, . rZ..r. i- k., i ..
can troops in that vicinity I
OJtnaga and I'ledrn egras Reinforced. I
ports to department headquarters '
to a told of the arrival of more troops
..' 'jinaga, opposite Presidio, and at
P ea-as Negras, opposite Eagle Pass.
B. ond OJInaga increased activity was
ii lc-a but officers hero believe CoL
i n commanding on the American
si ' 1 as men enough to meet the sit
u tion. r
The heaviest addition to the Mexican
a.. ., . . ,,
L"ea when. Gen. Murg.n aYrlS ,vith !
k ?s, vinere uen. Murgia arrived with I
iaquis. j
Searchlights Reach Border. ,
- Punston announced that to the
a juipment here there had been
a o3ia a large number of search-
I w- i.en Parker reported from
B'tnisiUe that he had not been able
to confirm the rumor that Americans ,
ar erraivo naa Deen massacred.
'Non-Corns Will Get Ciance.
wpIS? tcsuy ttaitailed ft? !
ructions had been sent to him fori
o ua lation of regiments of Infantry)
aid two cavalry regiments under the)
a-n r reorganization bill whfoh H!t I
!-V2?2J
corrmisioned officers from existing
, .-- mtriiLB io ine new organization to
handle the recruits.
Horse Dealers Give
American Army First
Choice Of War Mounts ,
Chicago, HL, June 2L The needs of here a midnight for New York, where
tht United States government for be wlu "" until Sunday.
ho-ses in Its threatened difficulties pf ATFORM PUTS SNFFRAfiF
with Mexico are being given prior con- tAiruiUTl ruio aurr.lAUt
..deration b horse dealers at the Uil . UP TO STATES SAYS WILSON
sttK.kards Horses originally intended ! . ., t, , ....
for the British and French govern-'. Washington .DC June 21 An in
ments are being brought forward for terpretatlon of the suffrage plank of
lnsnection b hnv.r. i, k- iiii.ii the Democratic platform was sought
national guild Illinois Uom president wrlson today by MrsfD.
Nearlv 2000 horses whlrh t a Hooker of Richmond. Va.. actingaa
sw as-sts
ere submitted Tuesday for . the an
proial of Lieuts Geo McEvers and
Go T Harz, of the First cavalry.
Hlirois national guard. These officers
took nearly 1000 of the animals and
were ?t the yards again today to get
options on about 400 more
MEXICO TAKES POSSESSION
OF AMMUNITION SUPPLIES
maf.ooolo1-rounUdsJofraSo1nl ' TO BE APPOINTED SOON
has been taken In charge by Carranza ' Washington, D. C, June II. An as
authorities at various points through- sociate Justice of the supreme court
out Mex. co and the government fac- to succeed Charles K. Hughes probably
tor is work ng 24 hours daily In or- will be appointed by president Wilson
der to augment this suopH. according in a few days. Scores of men have
to one of the American refugees from been considered and endorsements still
Mexico City are coming in. Those most prominently
The output of the gover intent fac- mentioned are attorney general Greg
to is approximate! 30 000 lounis of ory, senator Walsh of Montana and
cartridges daily, he said. former secretar of war Garrison.
MEXICAN COAST CAN BE
BLOCKADED VERY QUICKLY
"'an Diego, CaL. June 21 The flo
tilla of torpedo destroyers, consisting
of the Hull flagship of Lieut. W. W.
Bradle flotilla commander. Honking
and T-uxtun, were in readiness early
todav for a dash down the Vevi
u est coast to Join other units of the
Pacific T1ot which nihar n l
Pacific fleet which either are al
readv in Mexican ports or on their way,
Naval authorities here believe Ad-
mlral Wmslow. commander of the Pa
cific fleet, could blockade effectively
WJi"n ,8P,hmT,bJ!?-
---- - - - - "w- uemocrauo party ty popular suoscrlD
If events rend-red such action neces- ., .n L .,,ZzL., n.S.
ear'; J
CONSUL SILLniA LEAVES
SATILLO; REACHES U. S.
Eagle Pass, Texas, June 3i. Consul
J. R. Silliman arrived in this city last
night from Saltillo, coming by way of
Mondova, owing to the cessation of
railroad traffic between Monterey and
Kuero Laredo He said he expected to
remain here for several days.
Mr Silliman is the last American
consul to leave Mexico.
El Paso Refuses To Excite Over
CIVILIANS FLEE AGUA PRIETA
The War At a Glance
W
rHILE the weight of Ger
man military power !s be
ins increasingly felt on
the eastern front where it has
stiffened the Austrian resistance
to the drive of the Russians, the
pressure on the French at Verdun
has momentarily lessened
Athens dispatches forecast prob
able changes in the Greek military
as a result of the economic pres
sure which the allies have exerted
because of their dissatisfaction
with the Greek government's at
titude Resignation of the cabi
net of premier Skouloudis is ex
pected in some quarters.
Carries 55,000,000 More1
Than Last Year; Discuss
Mexican Affairs.
Washington, D. C-, June 21 Gen
eral debate on the army appropriation
lil carrying a total of US7 000,00s.
' DEBATE M
iPPROPBISTIOIi
Hi I UUI lim. iUBl
ix increase of $55 000,000 over last r'.l but 100 persons had fled. Aceord-...--
vAn .A,. i ,- i.n.. t. t. irp to these accounts the Russian
.. . x Z, k i. fire was so terrible that noth-
cxpected to be passed by tomorrow inc onid ijve in the advanced trenches,
afternoon i Aire entanglements and trenches were
During the debate. Republican leader J cbliterated
Mann read into the record excerpts I Sky Red With Ranting Shells.
Iron, secretary Lansing's note to the ' The 'nhabRants of Czernowitzreal
. , , ., . . iitd that the situation was serious
Mexican government relating to out- hM the Austrian staff retired upon
" A"-
, '" J' , -', It
they undoubtedly are. he said, "it is
. ., , . im .
tc the everlasting shame of the Ameri
,
Renrasentative Gardner objected
that the bill did not provide sufficient
aDDrsDriations for the eo.ulr.ment of
cannon and artillery ammunition for
the national guard.
Representative Hay, chairman of the
military committee, said the president
tad the Mexican situation well In
hand.
ine oresta
"The president, he added, "is going
" Pur8e hte eouree whlcn W,U brlnK
. '. ,j h- . ,, i-itMi states
a-Td. I trmst. to Mexico
Secretary of war Eaker conferred at
the capltol today with senator Cham-
certain, chairman of the military com-
niittee.
Senator Chamberlain said it still wa
the disposition of congress to delay
action on a resolution to provide for
j making the national guard eligible for
fcreign service.
REPUBLICAN NOMINEE HUGHES
MARCHES WITH CLASSMATES
Providence, R. I , June 21 Chas E.
j Hughes. Republican nominee for presi-
a day or activu in college airaira, :
Mr Hughes marched with his class. ,
that of '81, in the B-own university
commencement exercises
The days program included a recep-
tion at the headquarters of the Young
Men's Jtepublican club and at a dinner
tonight at the home or governor K.
SPSS $?'
it was announced
no discussion of
nollttcs. Mr Hughes expects to leave
&?ttxrisrsr3gz
state .reaeracion oi iaoor
She left the white house with the re
port that the president stated the
plank meant the question should be de
cided by the states, not by federal ac
tion. Mrs. Hooker said Charles E Hughes.
will be "reached" by suffrage workers.
,cITrr.ssnR TOHnnHFS
HUGI1ES IS GLEST OF
IlROVl" CUSS VT CI.VMI11KE
Tiverton. R. I, June 21 Charles 1
Hughes, Republican presidential nomi
nee, was the guest of honor of the
class of '81 of Brown universit. which
assembled here at the home of Benja
min Barker, on ..arragansett Bay. I
'UT.tl. a,, 4A rt tile n ,&,. ..I I
".." Vk 7-n.L . ',. k.' ,7 I
tableln the open air. the chief figure !
. ,u. i-i. .i .,.. ?
at the annual clam bake of the class.
DE3IOCRVTS TO It.MSB FLMJ
?170,000 SV1! TREASURER.
Pl.l.. lit ... 41 4 -. I
-nd oT.U70.060 will oe raised .bTS.
tere by W W Marsh, of Iowa, tres-
I uier or tne urm
uier of the Democratic national com
mittee. OVERRULES REHEARING OF
SANTA FE-HARGRAVE'S CASE
. . .
Ausun. lexas. June JL Tne t- ,
preme court today overruled a motion
lor rehearing in the case of the Atchi
son, Topeka . Santa Fe Railway com
pany against C. Hargrave. from El
Paso county
iusti is an
OIEH REVERSES
Loss of Bukowina's Capital
Proves Serious Blow To
the Dual Monarchy.
Vienna, Austria, June SI. Austria Is
sad oer the capture of Csernowitz,
capital of the province of Bukowina.
by toe Russians. It is recognized as
a serious blow The dual monarch.
! tiwever, expects to retrieve its defeat
in fresh victories.
Military critics point out that, in
view of the overwhelming Russian
Icrees, a continued defence of Cxerno-
i n'tz would merely have spelled the
city's destruction and unite in praising
the decision of military authorities to
c acuate.
Refugees Reach Vienna.
The vanguard of the fugitives from
Czernowltz now has begun to straggle
into Vienna after a week-long Jour
ney, in which they were constantly
c'elayed to allow the passage of train
leads of Russian and Austrian wound
ed The fugitives describe the fieree
iess of the Russian attack and the
devastation caused by it and also ine
! f ,,-. scenes in Csernowitz. from which
the citv from Its advanced post and
swarms of country people with their
possessions in packs or wagons and
t'rivlng their livestock, came fleeing
southward through the city. The scene
of awfulness increased at noon wnen
the sky was red with the glare from
tursting shells or illuminated at night j
by searcniignis.
The aeneral exodus from Cserno
witz by the civilians began at S oclock
j iiU'iIiim linliilnmr -ater- trainfoad of
the ponulace departing a last as we
cars eould be filled The fugitives In
cluded the faculty and students of
Oernowitz university, the latter of
hoai for six weeks had pursued their
studies with shells punctuating their
recitations and the noise of airplanes
drowning their lectures The city was
evacuated by the ius'riane June 15
Paris. France. June 21 A violent at-
oi Keims, was mauc u me ooim. i
Tuesday night at Hill No 10S and In the
direction of Berry au Bac, according to
an official statement Issued by the war
office today The attack was repulsed
by the French artillery fire.
The Germans exploded two mines be
fore launching their Infantry against
the French trenches Their repulse was
due, the statement says, to the effect
iveness of the French screen fire.
In the Verdun sector no Infantry ac
tion was reported but a mutual bom
bardment was maintained during th
nigat.
ALLIES PREPARE DEFENCE
FOR COMMERCIAL WARFARE
Paris. France. June 2L The perma
nent economic committee, formed as a
result of the recent economic confer
ence of the allies, held its first meet
ing at the foreign office Tuesday un
der the presidency of Denys Cochin.
Bosseront Danglade, the French diplo
mat, was appointed general secretary
of the new organizatino.
The newspapers declare that the con
ference has set forth in substance prac
tical measures which can be applied te
the defence of the allies against the
commercial war which they claim the ,
Germans are organizing with as much,
if not more determination and care as
they have shown in the physical con
flict now raging
TURKS SEIZED AMERICAN
PROPERTY, IT IS CLAIMED
New York, June 21 Schools and
hospitals owned and conducted by the
American Board of Foreign Missions
at MarbOtan and SUas. Turkey, val
ued at more than half a million dol
lars, have been commandeered by the
Turkish government for military pur
poses and the missionaries in charge
compelled to abandon their- work there,
according to Americans who arrived
here today from the Orient.
The property was taken over, they
. . v. .. .... .. ..
8a,.' ay. wnen ine Diplomatic slt-
Germany watense over the negotia-'
uenrany was tense over ine negoua- ,
l 1 At T k.a. I
troversr The nUeVionles who ar-
fuJdTn- CostanTlnoe Prior tS -
denarture of the Americana said that'
tne Turks first informed them that the
United States and Germany were at
war.
11 BRITISH AIRPLANES
ROMR FNPMV NFAD PI IRICH
T j , . , ..
BrmShrnlanlsmlid l.Tenent?
aerodrome? enemv "mnS and Iroons
aerourom enemy camps and ptroops
?r . Irih, on the Mediterranean, '
C'S" - """? " ln eauerranean,
" bi. n w me sua ami Mior-
orficia" ?. h,.V-.? Utement of
fennt? .il iLit. . a a
PivT ,'J!? . ? "PP-!
Five or more enemy airplanes were ,
Continued on pate S, CoL S) 1
I
BIG GUIS SEi
GERMANS BUG!
ETCH BORDER
TBI EHLT
DESERTED
Only Gen. Calles and Staff,
Handful Of Guards and
Customs Men Remain.
populace'takes
flight in night
1500 Residents Board Trains
And Move To Interior
About Nacozari.
DOUGLAS. Ariz, June 21. Agua
Prieta, the Mexican town oppo
site here, practically was desert
ed today by Its dvll population. A
handful of soldiers, the staff and guard
of Gen. P. Ellas Calks, military com
mander of Sonora, and the customs
officers remained in charge of the
town.
According to estimates 1600 resident.
mostly women and children, departed
during the night for the south. With
them went innumerable dogs a.l par
rota The belongings of each family
consisted mostly of tattered blankets.
They were loaded Into cars of every
description, the women and children
nuaaiing on tne flooring about their
meagre belongings. The majority of
the Mexican refugees. It was said.
would go to Nacozari. T miles south i
of the border.
Agua- Prieta has been apprehensive
f ' " ten attack. Inasmuch as
i10- -.jJ',Tng military forces In
DOUglaS. XABt nlehfe HVAlnnmjnt An
I looked on as preliminary to a com-
wtric atiuiauDnieai oi tne Doraer port.
"Nogales, Son, To Be Abandoned.
Nogales. Ariz.. June 21. Indications
that Nogales. Sonora. is to be evacuat
ed were apparent here today. Mer
chants of the Mexican town were busy
loading their stocks of goods on freight
i tns iur ampment into tne interior
Orders to that effect were Issued Tues
day b Mexican military authorities
Messages from Americans to interior
points are not being sent by the Mex
ican telegraph company It Is said
that state department orders to consul
Luis Hostetter at Hermosllln (nstrtiAt.
ing him to return to the ITnltori statue
still hang on the censor's hook In No-
on nis own initiative, it is said.
TELLS MEXICANS
TD LEASE II. 5J2
Arredondo Tells Consuls to
Advise All Mexicans to Re
turn to Own Country.
Bl R. . BITCIIER.
Douglas, Ariz., June 21 Mexican
consuls at Douglas, Naco and Nogales
were advised today by Ellseo Arredon
do. Mexican ambassador designate at
Washington, to Instruct Mexicans un
der their consular Jurisdiction to leave
!, t-i c- - -m j, i " s uiiircu riin mat an wie unuts
the Lnited States for Mexico lmmedi- represented in the Pacific coast states
ately. j and Montana will be in a position to
The message from Arredondo was ! 'fJ2ri thtmlv,i8 ,n "f fr ser-,..-...
iw .t... . a . . . ' v,ve on tne Mexican border,
prefaced with the etatement that the j
United States in its note to first chief
, v . . .,.., ,. I
Carranza had refused to withdraw its
troops from Mexican territory and.
tnererore, ne deems It proper CO advise I
all Mexicans to withdraw to their own
uounirj ana tnus avoia inciion. ine
ambassador added
"The Americans are ordering their
nationals home "
Many Leave Don dim.
Mexican consul LeLevler, at Douglas,
following receipt of the message from
Arredondo. notified the Mexicans In
this city and already score of them
" B-" V, W U.,1 HUiltClOUU. ,
Many Mexicans who were employed J""3 ""' ""e ,m,ra
at the smelters were told taat unless xjctrr irncirv ott.nnc diiv
thej proceeded to Mexico at once and ; "EW JERSEY GUARDS BUY
Joithe army, they would be expatri- HORSES PICKED BY ALLIES
Critic. i c Carranza. I Sea. flirt V t .Tun 21 Mobilization
Mexicans of all classes aloicr the
bord?r" are of'"" tne "rst chief
- forPm. h Imiiie 1
1V1 LillK UIR OUC I
Thlrty Americans from El Tigre '
!":.? mIlef f?u.thest f " re
"1'". ",ul" " lnc "-
teen of them were due at noon and the .
others later in the day
I
WILL NOT PUT OBSTACLES IN
WAY OF AMERICANS LEAVING '
Mexico lt. June 21 The Mexican
foreign office has again given ainr.
ncs that no obSacle? woulde u?ln J
5e of Americans desiring to leave
tn rountry Americans have been '
treated with Minri h th. rrtZt?t.
'treated with courtesy bv the officio!.
i.,,.. to ,1o wllh ,"h ; - -","V7"-
,tem. but the shortaie of rolling stock '
ls making difficult the carrying of
those who desire to leave The Pachuca
ming companies offered a special
train of 11 box oars and caboose 1
The Mexican Situation; All ls Peace Here
2,000 ENLIST IN
IEHS GUARD
Eegiments Are Rapidly Be
ing Recruited Up to
War Strength.
Chicago, 111.. June 21 Movements of
Chicago contingents of the Illinois na
tional guard to the concentration camp
at Springfield began today with the
departure of the First cavalry, bat
teries D and E of the second battalion
of field artillery and company A, bat
talion of engineers.
Recruiting sergeants were left be
hind with instructions to fill up the
units to war strength as soon as pos
sible. It is not probable that the four Chi
cago infantry regiments will get away
before tomorrow.
At all of the infantry armories ef
forts were being made to surpass Tues
day's recruiting record when only a
few over 900 men were obtained. Re
crafts obtained since the call for mo
bilization so far number over 2000.
OHIO GUARDSMEN GATHER
AT MOBILIZATION CAMP
Columbus, Ohio. June 2L With the
prospect that orders to move to the
Mexican border may be received at any
moment. Ohio national guard officers
were alert today while preparing their
troops for the calL Four companies
composing the ninth battalion arrived
today at the mobilization camp. These
companies, composed of negroes, will
assist in the construction of the camp
Announcement was made at Akron j
company that all of its employes who
are members of the national guard and
who hate others dependent upon them
will receive two-thirds of their salaries
while thev are in mobilization camps
or on tne Mexican Doraer. xnose wno
have no dependents are guaranteed one
half of their regular salaries.
COLORADO HAS PLENTY
OF MEN FOR WAR DUTY
.LxCTivtH-, voiu, judb -i tuis ior a
medical inspection of militia at their!
home armories were received today at
the adjutant general's orfice. where it
was said that by tomorrow this inspec-
tion would be well under way and the
units accepted would be started imme-
dlately for the mobilization camp
The first call came rrom the Trinidad I .... . uu..u.u.. ; alaies with a view to preventing this
platoon of the signal corps. A medical I Nogales. Arix, June IL The dis- ' country from gathering In trade for
officer left immediately for that city I patch to Canaaea of a 12 ear troop merly controled by Germany in Mexico.
Numerous offers of considerable I train carrying artillery, machine guns. I South d Central America,
bodies of men for service are being I ammunition and 1500 men. according I t ,5 pointed out that Carranza might
received from various parts of the j to the officer la charge, was reported 1 1,voW by calling for an tnterna
state and national guard officials here earlv today by William Unetrom. 1 100' commission to discuss the border
stated there will be no difficulty In a railroad man who arrived with his otlon as provided for in the treaty
speedily supplying Colorado's
full
quota for Mexican dut.
MUSTERING OFFICERS FOR j
14 STATES ARE APPOINTED !
Chicago. I1L. June 21. MaJ. Gen.
Thomas H Barry, commander of the
Central department, L &. A., today Is
sued a speci-l order assigning officers
to Inspect and muster in the militia ,
in the 14 states under his Jurisdiction.
CoL Daniel A Frederick Is detailed
as chief mustering officer, with head
quarters tn Chicago col Frederick
as lormerly stationed at J-ort miss
commander or tne zza iniantry
'mong orncers detailed as assistant
sterine officers are. Colorado-
olden. Cant. Walter T Bates. Infan
try Lieut. Wm F Sharp, field artil
lery, and Lieut Joseph A. Rogers. 20th
iniantry
PACIFIC COAST REGIMENTS
RECRUITING TO WAR STRENGTH
San Francisco. Calif. June II. Con
tinued success of the efforts of na
ttonal guard officers in recruiting their I r 1? "Sn-tSl flii" . rWw ' -organizations
to war strength was re- SSTSS i? iirf n!L T Jj I r.
ported todav from mnhiiintioB ten- Ntional line railroad cars to be . .
ti, i (-.ii ,-,. tr..ki..,.. -! !
and Montana.
and Montana: ".. a
By the end of the week, if the pres-
j ent rapid rate of recruiting continues.
NEW YORK WILL HAVE" 18 000
." " ""' o,uuv
MEN FOR MEXICAN SERVICE
New York June 21 The first two
regiments of the New York national
guara to respond to the call for service
on the Mexican hnntr lAft this cltv
today for the state camp at Beeckman,
where it is expected about 18 000 men
will be assembled when the state mo
bilization is comnlete Tomorrow the
71st regiment will leave for the camp
and during the remainder of the week
officers of the New York division ex
pect regiments from other parts of the
,a ., . ,.J
of New Jersey's militiamen benn
here today with Gov. Fielder as a
inwlpln.
OUCVLtllUr.
Militia officers in searching for
horses found, subles containing 800
apin.'S wnicn prauiiira q me
French government had inspected and
approved for purchase but for which
cash had not been paid. The owners
? these horses responded to a requeat
Je?seyhguardn?et lMtemd t0 the 'W
COMBADO COMPtM' WHL I
G,VE 5I,,'ITI U1EV ,,ALF PAY '
Denver. Colo, June Jl.-Announce-
ment was made by the Colorado Fuel
jt, i- cnmn,nv twlav that It will tk
Iron comDanv today that it will taka
.,. f if .mniv.i who ar. called
to Mexican service with the Colorado
national guard. The statement says
"Employes of the Colorado Fuel &
Iron company who are called for ser- .
(Continued on paxe 2, CoL 3.) '
TREID DUELS
FDR If TEERS
Proclamation in Juarez Di
rects Gen. Gonzales to En
list Men for Defence.
Posters calling all Mexicans to arms
were posted in Juarez "Wednesday. The
posters are signed Gen. J. B. Trevino
and direct Gen. Francisco Gonzales to
call to arms all citizens of Mexico la
his Jurisdiction, "to defend with arms
and by hand the national Integrity In
case of international war."
The proclamation states that organ
izations are being formed along the
frontier to "combat the American army
in case of rupture between the United
States and Mexico."
TEN AMERICANS ARE STILL
IN THE CITY OF T0RRE0N
A. G. Fenrlch of the Fenrlch Printing
company. Torreon. Mex, has wired to
friends In El Paso announcing his safe
arrival at Eagle Pass. He dees not
mention the others who came out at
the same time, but states that about 10
Americans are still In Torreon.
Mr. Fenrlch at one time made his
home In Kl Paso, but of late years has
oeen in Business in Torreon ana no ts
vrll IrHAWN tA sll lmAplina In Vivtk. I
ern Mexico.
After U S consular agent C A.
Wllliams left hia post in Torreon last
March. Mr. Fenrlch for a time had
charge of the Consulate.
. OJINAGA COMMANDER
I PREPARING FDR WAR
.
! Presidio. Texas June 21. Six nun- '
dred Carrancistas were renoited today
due to arrive at Ojinaga. opposite here. J atives of European powers to prevent
ESl?.mm70.W W,th 1Bother de' i i tom forcing a break with th
tacaraent following: t- . o . j
This report, coupled with statements ' l-Jted States. Indirect reports reach
brought to the American side that Col. ins the state department today told
Joee Rlojas. the Ojinaga, commander. I of these efforts and said there was a.
tat A 1am iieitmtniail ialarrnh frAm 1
Chihuahua city to prepare for war
- -: .. ---. -- .. --- . -
7lw Ine L,? ue "
"" creax,,K,e1, v IS? . -
"" " .... .. .,. , H"
alarm
' - n-nnnn ,t n ,,.,,
1500 TROOPS WITH CANNON
APP 5FNT Tft PANANFA
family from Imuris and Masdalena.
miles south or the border
Four cars of the train were armored
and loaded with ammunlticn Lin-
strom said no otner AraeMcan re
mained in the Magdalena district, so I
tar as ne Knew
THREE TRUCK LOADS OF TROOPS
SENT DOWNTOWN FROM FORT
Three truck loads of infantry troops
were brought downtown at 11 o'clock
Tuesday night from Fort Bliss as a j report of Tuesday, stating the number
precautionary measure. I of units be desired and to what points
The troops, consisting of five com- 1 ie wished them forwarded
panies. were ordered downtown by Gen. I Only preliminary reports of the pro
Bell for patroling and guard duty and gress of the mobilisation In various
" io umereni parts or tne
dty.
The troops returned to th fort camn
early Wednesday morning. The troops
Included companies of the Seventh and
20th Infantry regiments.
CARRANZA GOVERNMENT
ASKS FOR ALL FREIGHT CARS
returned to Mexico at once.
The rcason gien for the request Is
that tne carranza government wishes
to repair all of the cars tn anticipa
tion of a general resumption of traffic
on the different lines.
It la believed here, however, that the
cars are wanted for military purposes.
RED CROSS VSKs G VMK.
MAGZfE! FOR M)LDlBR.- I
Delton. Mass.. June 21 Miss Mabel
Boardman. chairman of the American
I National Red Cross Society today ap
, pealed for magazines, games and com
fort bags for ro'diers on duty along
the Mexican border.
MURGIA IIUINGS 000
YAO.IIS TO PlUDRAS :BGRAS
Eagle Pass. Texas. June 11. Gen.
Murgia. a Carranza comma i.der. ar
rived at Piedras Negraa, the Mexican
town opposite here today with a de
tachment of 2000 Yaquis. reinforcing
the garrison there. A large part of
the civilian population of P.cdras Ne
gras has already moved south.
Physical Training Makes
Better Men of Boys
PHYSICAL discipline as necessary to the development of the body as
is mental discipline to education Let the boys try this: Stand erect
and perfectly motionless for one minute. Well developed men can do
this for IS minutes.
Physical discipline gives poise, bearing, stamina, self control, without
which no bub or boy can succeed.
In the Y. MCA. pymnsro't the boys get the training, the develop
ment, the physical discipline and physical control lhat develops strong boys,
who grow into strong, useful men. A trained physical director is in charge
of all classes.
A membership to the Y M. C. A. will be given to the boys absotatciy
free for obtaining only a small number or new snbeeribers. Call to see H. U.
Frw, circulation manager of the 3 Paso Herald.
Entente Allies Bring Pressure
On Carranza To A void
Clash With U. S.
MILITIA WILL BE
SENT SOUTH SOOM
Gen. Funslon s Request Will
Be Fulfilled As Soon As
Men Are Ready.
cX TASHCfGTOK. D. C, June 2L
I VV !S,oc,a, ageat Rsdgers at Mex-
I teo OtT telegraphed tho state
' department today that the American
note had reached there and was being
considered by Gen. Carranza and his
cablaec He made bo mention of. how
It was received.
Allies Brine Pressure.
Strong pressure Is being brought to
bear upon Gen. Carranza by represent-
PHn.tjr that they would be suc-
. --..h
- .".
Allien Suspect German Influence.
Agencies of the entente allies are un
derstood to be active for peace, par
ticularly as they believe German In
fluence has sought to Inflame the Mex
ican government against the United
caB government against the United
i ,BI- J"' noweyer. no sugges-
tion for such
a step has come front
Mexico
Marching orders for national guard
organizations summoned to the colors
under president Wilson's cay are still
held up at the war department pend
ing completion of the mobilization of
the troops at state camps.
To Send Militia South Soon.
Just as soon as a sufficient number
of the guardsmen have been mustered
into tne federal service, the war de-
i mrtmMi will net- rl.,, rn,Bti .
rtstes naa reacned the war department
tcday.
mew were vieweu as sauszac-
tory
May Graduate First Class Cadets.
Secretary of vir Baker said the
suggestion that the senior class at
West Point military academy be grad
uated immediately for active service
; . had 'SSS." " n
The cadets would be commissioned
second lieutenants in-mediately if the
ergency were necessary.
The war department had no addi
tional advice from Cen Funston re
garding the movements of Carranza.
troops near the border or in the vi
cinity of Gen. Pershing's column tn
Mexico
Officials Look for War.
The United States today anxiously
r waited word from Mexico City re
garding 'Gen Carranxa's attitude to
ward
me American note sent him
ruesday. for on him depends the Ques
tion of war between the two repub'lcs.
H gh officials here admitted privately
they look for war. although care was
liken to avoid any formal expressions
or acts which might appear forerun
ners of a declaration cf war
Text May Be In Carranza'a Hands.
Unofficial versions of the note prob
ably were published in Mexico Clt
today and the official text alreadv
may be in Gen. Carranza s bands.
Military authorities were looking for
the de facto government's attitude in
Mexico threatening troop movements
rtar the border today, and In prepara-
(Continued on Pace r Cnlnmn 4.)
