THE BARME DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. S3.
BARHE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 21, 1016.
THICE, ONE CENT.
EUROPEAN POWERS TRY
i . "
TO CHECK CARRANZA
Strong Pressure is Being Brought to
Bear On the Mexican Leader to Pre
vent Him From Forcing a Break
.With United States There is Possi
bility That It May be Successful .
WAR DEPARTMENT
TO SEND ON MILITIA
menfc agents of taking a leading part in
anti-American propaganda in Mexico and
arrested him a he wit preparing to
cross the border, so evidence was dis
covered on which lie could be held.
MEXICAN LAND
OWNERS MUST
BE MEXICANS
First Move of Regulars Would Be to
Make a Rapid Advance and Then to
Hold the Line Until the Arrival , of
Volunteer Reinforcements From the
States
Washington, D. C, June 21. Strong pressure is being brought
to bear upon Carranza by representatives of European powers to
prevent him from forcing a break with the United States. Indirect
reports reaching the state department to-day told about these ef
forts and said that there was a possibility that they would be suc
cessful. Entente allies' agencies are understood to be active for peace,
particularly because they believe that German influence sought to
inflame the Mexican government against the United States, with a
view to preventing this country from gathering in the trade for
merly controlled by Germany in Mexico and South and Central
America. It is pointed out that Carranza could avoid war by calling
for an international commission to discuss the situation under the
treaty of 1848.
A definite statement comes that Carranza is doing all in his
power to protect Americans from attack by. the populace.
Foreigners May Not Acquire Title to Real
Estate Unless They Renounce Allegi
ance to Their Native Lands is
SubsUnce of New Decree. , .
El Pmo, Texas, June 21. DispalVlies
from Mexico City to the-local Mexican
consulate state that a decree hoe been
issued by the de facto government order,
ing that any foreigner acquiring real
estate in Mexico either by purchase or
contract must renounce ins allegiance to
his native country and register himself
as a Mexican citizen. Further orders
state that any person seeking to trans
fer property to a foreigner must obtain
permission from the proper authorities.
The American exodus from Chihuahua
was practically completed to-day with
the exception of five mining men who
are said to be liming in the mountain
near Parral, fearing to attempt to rearm
the border because of the feeling of the
native population.
LAYING UP BIG
ARMY SUPPLY
WANT 150 MEN
PER COMPANY
Carranza Authorities Have Vermont National Guard Is
Taken Over 17,000,000 Being Recruited to New
Rounds of Ammunition Army Law Requirement '
FACTORY IS WORKING
24 HOURS A DAY
TROOPS ORDERED
TO CAMP THURSDAY
Daily Output Is 30,000 Cart- Special Session of Legist
ridges, Say Ameri- ture May Be Called to
can Refugees ,, Vote Additional Pay
ON PERSHING'S THREAT.
Carranza Forces Released American Sol
dier They Had Captured.
Colonia )ublan, Chihuahua. June 21,
via wireless to Columbus, N. M., June 21.
An American soldier was captured by
Carranza troops of the Casus Grandes
garrison and held prisoner several hours.
He was released only when General J. J.
Pershing, expeditionary commander, sent
a demand in which lie warned the Mexican
commander that if the solldier was held
an hour longer American troops would
attack the town.
Laredo, Texas, June 21-Approtimate- Company H, first Vermont Infantry,
ly 17,000,000 rounds "of ammunition have ''k the other companies in the state,
been taken over by Carranza authorities will not entrain for the mobilization
throughout Mexico sud the government cmP t Fort Ethan Allen until noon to
factory is working ,24 hours a day, turn- morrow, orders, to that effect having been
ing out 30,000 cartridges daily, accord- "Wived late last evening. To-day a
ing to American refugees arriving here.
MEXICAN PEOPLE
FEAR INVASION
AND MpVE SOUTH
squad of the company was engaged in
loading the baggage wagons on flat cars
on the siding at the Central Vermont
swtion in Montpelier. The eorutfany
was ready to leave last evening.
In the meantime recruiting rs gomg
on, and old and new members are under
going a rigid medical examination which
CITIZENS' BAND DISBANDS.
Gives Up Quarters and Stores Its Fur
niture Harsh Talk On Street.
Disruption of the Barre Citizens' ban
was aohieved this morning when the
musicians vacated quarters in the ol
city hall and transferred the furniture t
a storehouse. At the band meeting Mon
day night it was decided to disband i
the city council should not see lit to
continue its financial support on the old
scaie. for the first time in six years
Barre is without a major band and for
the first time in as many years the Citi
sens' organization will not be doing bus
mesa at tlie old stand in City park.
witter criticism of the cotfrse pursued
by the council could be heard in many
quarters this forenoon, but it may be
said that the musicians themselves ar
performing a conspicuous service by
maintaining a discreet silence, a silence
which is explained by the fact that the
band men are, not counting their own
loss but the city s loss. Before the
council had repudiated its original pur
pose to renew the old contract with the
band, the musicians contributed two con
cert on Memorial day.
CONVENTION FORMALLY OPENED
t . mav tAiilt in f-hnm,M K.,i,r , I J-st evening an lnrormai recepi
M.x. r. o vi vu44 n ropuunon.it , j. ""r'r the members of the convention was held
126th Annual Session of the Vermont
Episcopal Diocese.
"With Bishop A, C. A. Hall of Burling
ton presiding, the 120th annual eonven
tion of the Vermont Episcopal diocese
opened at 0 o'clock this forenoon in
.rinst church, Montpelier. Walter C.
Bernard of Newport was re-elected sec
retary, and Bev. O. B. Brush of Shel-
bume, assistant secretary. Immediate'
ly following the organization, Bishop
Hall delivered his annual charge to the
clergymen in the parish house.
East evening an informal reception for
Washington, D. C, June 21. The United States to-day was anx
iously awaiting word from Mexico City regarding Carranza's atti
tude toward the American note, for on. him depended the question
of war between the two republics. High officials admitted pri
vately that they looked f 'or war. The only answer requested from
Carranza is action suppressing " outlawry, and officials feared
against hope that this would not be done.
The military authorities are looking for the de facto govern
ment's attitude in troop movements near the border, and in prepa
ration the war department is getting ready to act on General Fun-
Eton's request for immediate dispatch of several national guard
units to the border. In case of attack on the American columns, it
is regarded as probable that a general rapid advance would be the
order from the border to a line perhaps 100 miles south, which
would be fortified and held until the volunteer reinforcements be
came available.
Secretary of War Baker said the suggestion that the senior class
bt West Point be graduated immediately for active service was un
der consideration, but that no decision had been reached. The
cadets could be commissioned as second lieutenants immediately if
the emergency warranted.
It was announced later in the day that just as soon as a sufficient
number of guardsmen had been mustered into the federal service
they would be sent to the border.
AMERICANS HAVE LEFT
MEXICO CITY FOR VERA CRUZ
A despatch from Special Agent Rodgers at Mexico City said that
a train leaving yesterday for Vera Cruz carried a special car with
30 Americans, mostly women. The refugees should arrive in Vera
Cruz to-day unless the train is detained.
An overnight despatch stated that arrangements had been com
pleted for a special train, which Rodgers hoped would take out 600
or more Americans who are still in the capital.
War department officials are gratified
et reports of crowded recruiting stations
in several states. They also tore pleased
that the governors of virtually all states
NEW GERMAN
ATTACK NORTH
WEST OF RHEIMS
Piedras Negras, Opposite Eagle
Pass, Texas, Have Left the
Town larrisOa Reinforced. ,
Eagle Pass, Texas, June 21. Consul
J. R. Silliman arrived, to-day from Sal-
tiiio, coming by way of Monclova, ow
ing to the cessation '.of railroad traffic I
in the parish house from 8:30 until 10
o clock.
To-night the session will be devoted
Violent Effort to Puncture French Line
Was Repulsed by Artillery Fire In
the Verdun Sector There Was
No Infantry Action.
Paris, June 21. A violent German at
tack on French portions northwest of
Rheims was made last night at Hill 108
and in the direction of Berry -Au-Bac, ac
cording to the oflicial statement, the at
tack was repulsed by French artillery
fire. The Germans exploded two mines
before launching their infantry against
the French trenches. " The Germans' re
pulse waa due, the statement says, to
the effective French screen of fire.
ITALIANS ADVANCE
OVER HARD ROUTE
Hindered by Heavy Resistance North of
the Frensela Valley, But They
are Continuing Progress.
Rome, via London,' June 21. A war of
fice statement issued to-day states that
between the Adige and Astieo valleys ar
tillery actions occurred and at the end
of the Posana valley a detachment of
Alpine troops during a heavy storm cap
tured strong positions southwest of Mon
te Purche.
Attacks against Italian positions at
Monte Magnab and Osoni were repulsed
with heavv losses. North of the Frense
la valley the Italians continued a difli
ult advance across nougTi ground, hin
dercd by frtiiborn resistance and driving
back frequent counter attacks.
leave is taken to-morrow. Although
some recruits have been rejected upon
examination the company now has the
necessary (55 men. but. an officer will Iw
left behind when the company departs to to the consideration of the missionary
continue to enroll new men until the de- Pvorlc 01 aiocese. Wlltl Ule snowing
sired 150 are enlisted I speakers: Kev. A. C. Wilson ot Bellows
rails, Kev. ti. H. JJavenport ot -mining-
operau oessiun or legislature, ton. Rev. R. W. Magoon of Fair Haven
With the nroanee.t, of lomr service tw I There are 27 clercci-men nresent and
t.-i j . I.. ' I - - -- --- -- m ,
urinern iiiumerey ana uevo i-areuo. tie the Vermont militia. Governor (iates and about 50 lav de crates
"F" " nmm arverai (lays, von I Adjutant lieneral S. Tillotson of St
sul Silliman is the last American consul Albans ' conferred last nishr. rearrfmcr
A 1 I - ... 1.. . ... 15 . " e
Mexico.- I uie necessity for callinir u. Nnecial session
General Murgia, a Carranza comman- of the lecislnf i.r to nr,.v,,l, aH,l;t;,,,i
der, arrived at Piedras Ncgras, a Mexi- pay for the men and to prepare for exi- 0,8a Quattropani Passed Away Last
can town opposite nere, to-aay witn x,- geneies. After the conference the follow- Evening of TUDercuiar meningitis,
""! laquis, reinforcing the garrison ing statement was given out in behalf of
there. A large part of the civilian pop- Governor Gates:
... . ' """ " special session OI inf l h,,m. . Third .. laat. M-eninrr
movpo south. I i.,,;oi,.,- ,. .. ...,.- s
DEATH OF YOUNG GIRL.
GEN. WOOD TRUSTEE
Miss Olga Quattropani, only daughter
of Mrs. Mary Quattropani, passed away
I . . . - v no nviijc y it i nil u
that the state troops are to be held in Llntu 0f two weeks. Miss Quattropani
fwferal service any length of time.. War ..... i ;., T,.. m.i, k ,oi
u, ..u W.B . vu.t until her last illness she was enrolled as
fP KnrtWirU tnSITV , L m l, T. JTl- ? student in the public schools. ,-Besides
Ut ISUKUitU UNIV. net been sufficiently determined U justi- . . nmtw sh ig Kun,,ve(i hv two
iv me expense ana trouoie oi a special I ..ti. . u n,...-.: .u ; ,.,
, ... I Lnwiiri. I'll wubhiu inaii nuvi let
however, that if ihe present situation is
prolonged in any degree that the state
should provide for additional pay for en
listed men and for any other exigencies
trial mav arise. -
"The state should also
for the families and dependents of en
listed men. This seems imperative a
the members ot the National Guard, mar
ried or unmarried, are ordered into serv
ice by the president and are obliged to
nwmn 1 U I.. HA . . . , i. .
of the individual as there was with the BKrklp 8tmt
volunteers of the pa.nish. American war,
USEFUL LABOR
IS HONORABLE
Was the Message Which'
John W. Gordon Gave to G.
S. Commercial Graduates
CLASS OF 23 GIVEN '"'
THEIR DIPLOMAS
Interesting Exercises 7 , e ,
Held at School F
Last Evenin' V i
Commander of Department of the East
Elected to-day to Position Held by
Gen. G. M. Dodge, Now Deceased
President Reeves Inaugurated.
Xorthfield, June 21. At the annual
meeting of the trustees of Norwich uni
versity, ntiich was held this forenoon,
Major-Gcneral Ieonard A. Wood of the
United (States armv and commander of
the department of the east, was elected
a trustee to fill the vacancy caused by
the death of Gen. Grenville M. Dodge of
Des Moines. They also elected Melverd
A. Howe as a trustee in place of Rev.
Homer White of Randolph wbo declined
to serve longer because of his advancing
years. A vote of thanks was extended
to Rev. Mr. White for his long service
n behalf of the untversitv. ,
This afternoon were held the exercises
in connection with the inauguration of
Col. Ira L. Reeves as president of the
university.
ploved as a clerk in the Union Clothing
store, and William Quattropani; also a
cousin, Jr. casianl. uie little gin was
held in affectionate regard by a wide cir
cle of friends. he - possessed a sunny
, ., disposition and her untimely end is
amply provide mt?Ld hv m.nv acouaintances.
Funeral services will be held in St.
Monica's church at 2:30 o'clock Thurs
day afternoon. The parish priest, Rev.
P. M. McKenna, will officiate and inter
ment will.be made in the Catholic ceme
BOTTLE LABELED "POISON"
GREEK PREMIER
HAS RESIGNED
having important National Guard units
. which were not summoned have sought
permission to forward their entire con
tingent. No increase in the allotments made are
now contemplated. In this connection it
W83 leirned that the selections made
' vere designed to furni.-h the elements of
several provisional brigades, and that,
taken a whole, the regulars and
guardsmen represent the units of several
fiild armies, into whiili they might be
quickly assembled in the eent of war
with Mexiifi.
Another preparatory step taken by the
navv an Hue to the decision of Se-re- I
tary PanieK to ask the Senate to add
authorization for approximately ln.niiO
enlited men to the pending navy bill,
which, as it, psfd the home, provides
f-.r an increase of Il,'
Mr. Panieb explained that the neces
sity of putting snwll ship, u-ually held
In reserve, into commission for eervii-e
In southern waters made it imperative
that tb naty be rermitd up promptly.
Jt is possible the authorization fr the
increase will be sought in a separate
Jraura to avoid delsr. Should wa.r
mn, the personnel of the fleet oust be
immediately increased, the aviation norpo
and othr auxiliary servi1 miit be
trentbenH and an rp rejwrva pf
trsined rneo mit be prepared.
There is no fctr br ivt tie saiet ?
General Pershing and his men. The exact
disposition of the troops, even the exact
number now beyond the border, consti
tute military secrets. There i reason to
believe, however, that between 1CUJIMI
and 12HKI regulars are posted at the ad
vance ramps or along the line of com
munications. Relief expeditions are also
said to have been organized at various
border points, ready to dash forward in
flank attacks on any large Mexican force
which might attempt to assault General
Pershing entrenched camps or cut him
off from his border base of supplies. One
column, with strong artillery support, is
said to be ready to cover Pulpit pass, the
military nignway tnrough the mountain
between the states of Chihuahua and
Sonora, and through which the formidable
Sonora gurrison might seek to ftrike at
Pen-hing's rear detachments.
WILL DROP CHARGES
AGAINST GRIESE
Former Premier Zaimis May Be Asked to
Form Cabinet Acceptable to
the Entente Allies.
Athens, via London, June 21. Accord
ing to the newspaper Neon Asty, the
resignation of Premier Skouloudis from
the cabinet will probably be announced
in Parliament to-dyy. King Constantine
is taking up the question of cabinet
changes. As a result of the continuation
of the allies' blockade, it is believed
that former Premier Zaimis will be asked
to form a cabinet acceptable to the en
tente allies.
PLAN ALREADY TO
CARRY OUT PLAT
FORM PLEDGES
United States Department of Justice Tel
egraphs El Paso Agent That Ger
man Banker Was Not
Guilty.
Whingt"n. D. C, June 21. Chief
Bielaski. of t';e department of iutie
bureau of information. tHegraphed bis
KI Paw agent to-day to drop the
Aarge against Frederick Grier. a Ger
man banker of MrK City, detained
yesterday for alkge.1 attempt. to iolf
Am.-riran neiiirslitr. An invot;catim
eomiiKed the orial that be a nt
ga.Ity.
a uep;td by tie depart-
Democrats in Congress Are Considering
a New Legislative Pro
gramme. Washingfon. June 21. A new legisla
tive programme designed to carry out
ome of the platform pledges of the
Democratic convention was considered
vesterdav bv Chairman Kern and mem
bers of the Senate steering committee.
A meeting was railed for to-dav to ilralt
s new order of business for the remain
der of the session.
RECRUITS ARE WANTED
TO FILL CO. H RANKS
Announcement was made to-day
that Company H. Vermont Nation
al Guard, must have 85 mote men
to fill its quota of enlisted men for
the maximum strength set under
the nw ivfulnlions.
Applicants for enlistment mill
present them-he at the C,Hn
pany II armory in MonteIer at
oH-e
But No "Carcass" Located in North
Branch in Montpelier.
The discovery of a bottle labeled
"Poison" and confining a highly colored
liquid said to be of the rnbv hue. on the
School street bridge over the North branch
in Montpelier this morning caused a rip
ple in the neighboring city. Pinned to
the bottle wtis a note which breathed
discomfiture with the world and the
world's activities. The note said: "I am
done with this cruel world; you will find
my carcass in the brook below,"
Being a firm believer in preparedness.
Chief Connolly of the Montpelier police
decided to send the bottle and contents
to the state laboratory in Burlington for
examination as to the nature of the liq
uid. Pending the receipt of the analysis.
tne .Montpelier iiolice and people general
ly incline to the belief that the ruby stuff
is red ink, or something similar, and
that someone thought to enliven things
a bit. Nobody has been reported miss
ing in Montpelier; nor hss any human
IkhIv ber-n found in the North branch or
elsewhere in Montpelicr's marine section.
The present situation demands our
serious attention and it is my desire that
Vermont perform her full duty in the
present trouble with Mexico that the pro
tection of the American people may be
assured.
Additional pay is recommended bv
Colonel J. G. Estey of Brattleboro, a for
mer commander of the Vermont National
Guard, who sent the following message
to liovernor tiatee lat evening; "I ear
nestly urge you to consider" the question
of taking the necessary action to provide
extra or state pay for Vermont troops
responding to the president s call. I be-
SO. MAIN ST. PAVING
PROPOSITION WILL
BE ACTED ON AGAIN
Petition to Mayor Gordon Will Result in
Calling Special City Meeting to Con
sider Project to Continue Granite
Road to Jail Branch Bridge
Band Contracts Unsettled.
Beaten by a citizens' majority of. five
lieve all citizens will approve action to votes on June 7, the proposition to con-
thm end, as wins done in 1S98. Respect
fully, (signed) J. j. bstey."
GETTING CAVALRY RECRUITS.
FORMER GRANITEVILLE YOUTH.
Archie P. McLean Died Yesterdav at
Parents' Home in Corinth.
Arcihie Philip Mclean. IS-vear-old
son of Mr. and Mrs. Charles McLean of
Corinth, passed awav after a five davs
illness in bed. He was stricken with
tuberculosis last Januarv. but onlv with
in the last week had he been confined to
bed.
The McLeans lived in Graniteville un
I last August, when thev moved to the
Maplewood house in Corinth. The de
ceased leaves, besides his father and
mother, a sister. Marguerite. The fu
neral will be held Thursday at 9 a. m..
from St. Svlvtjter's church in Granite
ville. and the burial will take place in the
atlmlie eemeterv in Itarre.
Norwich University Man is in Water
bury He Has Already Enlisted One.
Waterhury, June 21. Adjutant -General
A. G. Wheeler, member of Col. Reaves'
staff at Norwich university, is here get
ting rerruits for the cavalry at Norwich.
He says he is having good results. One,
Clyde Demeritt, alreadv has enlisted and
gone to Northficld. Roy LeBarron, a
graduate of Goddard seminary four
years ago, was called from Truro, Mass.,
where he was working for the summer.
He belongs to Co. C at the I niversity
of Vermont. He is the son of Mr. and
Mrs. W. J. LeBarron of Waterhury,
TAKEN ILL IN RESTAURANT.
GIRL BADLY INJURED.
Became Confused at Approach of Auto
mobile in Rutland.
Rutland. June 21. While returning
from school yeterday. Maria lirace
Puikri'lge. seven year old daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Henrv B. Piickridge of No.
8 C-?urt street, ft ruck by an auto
mobile run bv P. J. Kellrv of Wales
Elderly Man, Thought To Be Charles
Whitney, Now in HospitaL
An clderlv man was taken silfldenly
while eating dinner at Jack's restaurant
in Depot square this afternoon at
o'clock snd when first-aid remedies failed
to restore him. Dr. J. W. Stewart was
ailed and he waa removed to the Citv
hospital in the Perry & Noonnn ambu
lance. Before leaving the restaurant the
man recovered consciousness long enough
to tell the physician that his name is
Charles Whitnev. He said he was a
summer border who had secured aeconi
moihtions for the season at a house on
the Montpelier road. After indicating
that he bad been a sufferer from heart
trouble, the man said he would recall the
name of the family with whom he was
staying and tell the doctor ahout it aft
erward. Then be lapsed into unoon
ciousness.
lie.taiirsnt attaches noticed the man's
condition in time to prevent him from
falling to the floor. The doctor was in
clined to attribute his condition to indi
gestion snd at the hospital it sp stated
that be as in a sf-rioits condition.
HUGHES AT BROWN.
Attends Commencement Festivities and
Marches with Class.
Prorideiw, R, I., June 2. Cliarles E.
Untie the granite pavement on South
Main street to the'Jail branch bridge and
to replftce that ancient wooden structure
with an up-to-date bridge will bob up
again at another citizens' meeting to be
called by Mayor Gordon for -early in July.
A petition signed bv the required number
of voters was presented to the mayor at
the regular meeting of the. city council
last evening, and the- mayor stated his
purpose to call the meeting at the earli
est date convenient. The 48,000 bond
ing proposition for the improvements was
turned down at the last previous citizens'
meeting by a vote of 12.1 to US. The
signers of the petition for the second
consideration of the measure feel that
the matter ought to be threshed out
again.
Included in the warning for the coming
meeting will lie a section to vote on a
bonding projiosition to increase the water
service to several , stoneshed sections
where the pressure was found last spring
to be inadequate. It is expected that the
report on the findings at that time will
be completed before the date of the meet
ing. The meeting of the council last night
was short but not particularly sweet
when the matter of a baud appropriation
came up and was parsed over after the
land committee reported that the liarre
Citizens' band "must have ?1.(S0 in order)
to keep the band together'' and after sev
eral citizen advocates of the Christopher
Columbus band of young musicians bad
spoken in behalf of that organization.
The band committees report, wtiicn
precipitated the wranele. ws as follows:
Jn the matter ot interviewing me
Barre Citizens' band whether arrange
ments could be male with them for 14
concerts, pro rata, it is officially stated
that that organintion must have 1,000
in order to keep the bsnd together."
The report was accepted and ordered
placed on file, after which the floodgates
of tilk were opened. Mayor t.ordon in
imated that the band committee might
i.t have carried out its instructions, in
ail.ng to s'gn a contract with the rrnd
hat was willing to furni-h two concerts.
pro rata, ac-orim to the instructions
hen. In reply. t.;e hand committee said
at it -ould not carry out the instruc
tion inasmncn as tne v itiretis twnd had i
street and ouite seriously, t'iough nt: Hughes motored here mm Tiverton to
faUlly injured. One leg was bioken be- - day to attend Brown mmmem-f-mrnt. He
low the knee. hT thumb was injured and marched w ith his cls of 11. w as the
one side of her face was badly scratched. ! smt of President Fau'wr at a rereptioa
Mr. Keller was not running his machine land took part in oth-r college adtvi
fast and t'e aiident wss cauxs hv thejlirs. Hughes evpe. t t leave at mil
ihdl becoming frightened and starting right for New York tit renia.n tr.td
back after startxj to r"M toe road. Saturdaj,
Twenty-three students", ho have com
pleted the course in the commercial de
partment at Goddard seminary under the
direction of Miss Bridges and C. L.
Hoernle received their diplomas last even
ing at the conclusion of interesting exer-
ises in the school chapel. School and
ss colors bulked large in the attrac
tive chapel decorations and there was a
large gathering of friends of the grad
uates, students and others. Interest
shown in the program demonstrated
new the fact that the commercial de
partment at Goddard is performing a
real service in the curriculum of the
school and that that service is being ap
preciate .
John V. Gordon of Barre was the
speaker of the evening and while his
solid contribution to the prograirf was in
the form of an address that will not i
soon be forgotten, there were other fea- i
tures that made for the signal success of :
the commercial department. The sem- i
inary orchestra played the opening over-
ture and after the invocation James Mc-
abb sang De Koven's "Recessional" "in
pleasing voice. "Vermont's Business Op
portunities" waa the subject of the salu- ;
tatory essay by Mjss Edna' Murphy, who
proved herself to be conversant with con-
tions in the Green Mountain state. Al
gol Knutson chose for the subject of his
essay, "Success in business, a timely
topic that was handled in a capable fash
ion. Albert Goslant of Lanesboro con
tributed a violin solo, ' "II Trovatore"
(Verdi) and just before Attorney Gordon
was introduced Miss KUa Wilson sketched
the history of the graduating class in a
most entertaining fashion.
Mr. Gordon's Address.
Attorney Gordon's address teemed with
pertinent advice to the graduates. ; Here
and there pointed analogies, grounded in
history, were aptly rehearsed to empha
size a point and now and then pat ex
cerpts from poets, past and present, in
terlarded his remarks. When Mr. Gordon
addresses an audience on most any topic.
ho invariably holds the attention of his
hearers and the attitude of the gathering
last night was no exception to the rule.
He spoke in part as follows: On occa
sions like this it is important to impress
upon young people the importance of
high ideals. They are told to aim high,
to watt the rainbow of promise, to seek
its treasure of gold, to "hitch their wag
on to a star.'1 These admonitions have
their use. Sometimes a source of in
spiration and effort, they have a forma
tive effect upon character and career.
The treasure of gold may never be. found,
yet the attempt to follow these admoni
tions may serve to define a purpose and
develop strength of mind and character.
rhey are useful gymnastics of the mind
and character.
As distinguished from these high ideals,
I wish to direct your attention to those
that are popularly considered to be, of a
lower order. Bv this I do not wish to be
understood to mean anything mean or
vulgar. Perhaps the term practical aims
would he a suitable nomination of my
theme. ,
The charge of impracticability is often
made against our schools. More of the
world, less of the book, is a proverbial
statement of the remedy. How to put
the big world into the schoolroom is one
of the grand and difficult tasks for the
republic to master. How far arc. we
justified in makiug such a charge? The
gravamen of the charge that is made I
take to be this: The average student dis
dains the more useful and essential serv
ices of society. Preferences of the young
man and the young woman run in paral
lel lines, the one for Iwseball rather than
to the carpenter's trade or that of the
stonecutter; the other prefers the piano
to the oven, the parlor to the kitchen,
may lie. And the most curious feature
of "all is that these preference, many
times, are unaccompanied by ability and
circumstances Hiitable to their realiza
tion. How far our schools tend to de
velop this daintiness of preference among
employment is not easily determined.
But where there u a prevalence of sucn
notions there is a weakness in the state.
Many so-called civilizations have failed j
because they rested upon false concep- !
tions of essential employments.
As contrasted with nations that have
suffered from some of these misconcep- j
tions. we are a splendid example. Con- '
fesedly the most prosperous nation is J
the one where every kind of useful labor j
is honorable: where the individual pre- t
sent his works, not his birth, ss a claim .
to diotinction: where appointment by lot j
or rotation is not the mode of election, j
It cannot be said that such conditions j
have always evisted in this country. Rut
here, with us. they have been rightfully !
favored.
Generally srking labor is held in j
high eteem in this ountry; specifically, !
it is not. The native born element shims j
nisnv employments. There is a notable
gravitation toward the city. Urban life
has its advsntaces, and so far a found- ,
,d on social xu-t if's of mankind and i
not on a falso classification of pursuits,
it is not reprehensible. But when the
vonng man graduates from ro!!eg? and
refuses to go back t" the farm because
refused to sign a contract for 14 conceits.
pro rata, as ttd in tHo i;sjrui tiors. j he has persuaded himself that b. little
AldfTsan .'y--n said if the council (know rd; i ton valuable to be lot in
didn't l.ke the report they could do wbit j rural oh-M-uptv, he often finds himself
they wanted with it and With them, the j w il-.ut an honors b;e means of s,jhit
omni'ttee. Abler ma Reynolds tVugbt rr-e ail at lat rrhe- an urn Hoen c!--ometti'r.-
mig'.t be don with both. A!- 'tmation. ' never tnr C-an in th
derm an H--i" couldn't we bow t'w in '.;vn -xintrv. whfre t'.e lori-n i t
rlriK tions cd the ronneil co i! I I arri"t! ! rt h inounta.ns an I the tar-fiId are
I
(Continue! n fourth pj
(Conth-a! on fourti Ff.)
