Mill
UM. "Bo tat and Fear not?Bet all tbe ende
Ahnet at be thy Country's, Thy God'e and TrerttVa,*
THK TRUE SOUTHRON, Established
OoneolMated Ana. 9,1861.
_____ -?
SUMTER, S. 0., WEDNESDAY, JUNE 2J, 1916
Vol.XLII. No. 36.
Entire State Militia.
Situation in Mexico Cause For Call to State
Organizations to Mobilize at Once.
Iftifrllii?nn Will Begin Immediately and Troops Will Be
Placed at Disposal of General Fnnston and Sent to Border
When and Where Needed?Estimated Thit 100,000 Men
Will Respond to Call.
a/eshtngton. June lt.?Virtually the
entire mobile strength of the National
Quart of all the State? and the Dts
Irl et of Columbia was ordered mus
nered lato the federal eervtce tonight
hy Precedent Wlleon. About 100,000
mm are expocted to respond to the
oaKL They will be mobilised Imme
dfcdcJy for euch eervtce on the Mexi
ai may later bo assigned to
Oea. raaalnn. oommanding the hot?
ter fetoea, will designate the time and
ajboa far ssovoments of Guardsmen to
ihj lalemalloaol line aa the occasion
shall require.
In announelAg the orders Secretary
sfefcer emld the Stale forces would be
eea ployed only to guard the border
aa4t that no additional trocp move
xecets lato Mexico wore contemplated
aexeat to pursuit of raiders,
i Hewaltaneously with the National
Qwud call. Secretary Denisia of the
oavy department ordered additional
war veaeels to Mexican' waters on
both coasts to safeguard American
At the war, navy and state depart?
ment* It waa stated that ne new ad
vi?? aa to the situation In Mexico
has come to precipitate the new
Within the mat two weeks, how
hen been increasing
The ortete presented by Gen
re note dfaatnd^ay the recall
Perehing4e expedlttonary force
baaa fallowed ay a virtual um
oa tho Amort caa afl*
k To this waa
yeeterday the poeeibillty that
American and Mexican troops had
alaahed across the border from Ban
Benlto, Texas.
Administration officials made no
attempt to ooacoal tonight their relief
over tho eafe return of MaJ. Ander?
son's cavalry squadron to Browne
villa after their successful bandit
ebaee, The troopers crossed In pur
euftt of bandits in the face of Intlma
tloaa that they would be attacked if
they did eo. Gen. Funston himself
repotted that he anticipated lighting,
presumably with Carranxa forces.
Mobilisation of the National
Guardsmen to support Gen Fun
etoa's line will pave the way for re?
leasing some 30.000 regul?re for im?
mediate service in Mexico in the
event of seen hostilities with the
Carranxa government. The Guards?
men themselves could not be used
beyond the line without authority of
congroaxj and until they had volun?
teered for that duty as they are call?
ed ont under the old militia law. The
new law, which would make them
available for any duty under the fed?
eral govern nent goes into effect
July 1.
The entire mobile regular army In
the United States, several provisional
regiments of regular coast artillery,
serving ss Infantry, and the National
Guard of Texas. New Mexico and
Arlson.i now are on the border or In
Mexico. Definlto figures have nevor
been made public, but it Is under?
stood Gen. Funston has about 40,000
regulate and probably 5,000 or more
guardsmen, qi' whom 10,000 regulars
are with Gen. Pershlng or scattered
slong his line of com muni -nations
from Namlquipa. Mexico, U Colum?
bus, N. M.
Telegrams calling for the militia
were sent tonight to the governors of
ell States except the three whose
guardsmen already have been mus?
tered In, after an all day conference
at the war department . ttonded by
Secretary Baker. MaJ. Gen. Scott,
chief of stsff; MaJ. Gen. Bliss, chief
of the mobile army, and Brig. Gen.
Mills, chief ol the militia division,
general staff. Brig. Oen. McC< mbs.
president of the army war college,
also was confu ted. Since Mr. Baker
dld not find it necessary to confer
again with President Wilson after his
visit to the White House late last
night. It was apparent the decision to
bring out the militia was reached
then.
By the news orders there will he
I placed at Gen. Funston s disposal two
major generals and 21 brigadier gen
erals of mllltla with their complete
Infantry commands. The entire in?
fantry divisions from New York and
Pennsylvana are called out as are
II full brigades from other States.
In all 88 regiments of Infantry, with
IS separate battalions and many sep?
arate companies are affected, giving
a total of 1,148 companies, each of
which must have a minimum strength
of 8S men when mustered Into the
federal service.
The total enlisted force of infantry
therefore would not be less than 85,
000 men.
Less than 600 companies, scattered
throughout the country, will not be
mustered In and the National Guard
coast artillery eompanies have not
1 been summoned. All of the field ar
Itlllery. cavalry, engineers and signal
troops will be employed, as will many
of the mllltla field hospitals and am?
bulance companies. The war depart?
ment has on hand ample equipment
and clothing to outfit and maintain
this force. The call applies to 79
batteries of field artillery. ?& troops
of cavalry and one New York cav?
alry machine gun troop, 26 engineer
companies and 89 signal companies,
{all with full equipment already issued
.to them. Twenty-six ambulance com -
I panics and 27 field hospitals also have
been ordered made ready for entrap?
ment.
No indication was given at the state
department tonight of the course to
be pursued with regard to t ie reply
to Qen. Ca-Tranaa's note domandlng
pared last week by Secretary Lansing
and is still in President Wilson's
hands. It had been intended to dis?
patch it to Mexico City tomorrow by
special messenger but recent develop?
ments may change this plan.
Official reports that recent raids
along the border had created alarm
among American residents In Mexico
City and elsewhere beyond th* border
were reflected today in a message re?
ceived at the Mexican embaisy from
Oen. Carranza. It stated v.hat ex?
citement prevailed at the Mexican
capital over the ominous signs along
the border, and asked Eliseo Arredon
do, ambassador designate, to tell the
first chief that he had learned of
the intentions of the Washington gov?
ernment towards Mexico. In reply
Mr. Arredondo Included a copy of
Secretary Baker'? statement announc?
ing the call for the militia.
Gen. Carransa*s note demanding the
recall of the American expedition ask?
ed for a statement of the purposes of
the United States and Secretary Lan?
sing's response as It has been drafted
Is understood virtually to restate the
Mexican plank In the platform adopt?
ed by the Democratic national conven?
tion at St. Louis.
When officials here heard of to?
night's message to the embassy they
construed It as a further indication
that the de facto government was
struggling with elements within Mexi?
co over which it had little control.
For three months the economic situa?
tion, which Gon. Carranza has been
attempting to solve without foreign
financial aid, has boen growing stead?
ily worse. Uneasiness has been mani?
fested in many parts of the republic
and agitators whoso purposes and af?
filiations ore not clearly known here
l.avo seized the opportunity to stir the
smoulder into anti-American feelings
throughout northern Mexico.
The Washington government has
watched with growing alarm the
spread of disorders throughout Mexico
and the evidenco that Carranza'*. con?
trol over his army and his pro pi ? was
waning from day to gay, Up to the
time Gen. Trevtno served notice on
Gen. Pershlng last week that any
movement of his troops except to?
wards the border would be treated as
a hostile act, there wns no Hear indi?
cation as to Carranza's own attitude.
His intentions still are somewhat in
doubt, although the fact that ho is
said to have personally directed Trc
vlo's sctlon leaves little ground for
speculation on that score.
The uuestlon remaining to be set?
tled Is whether Gen. Carranza will go
DANIEL REFUSES BALL.
C LEM SON PROFESSOR DECLINES
PRESIDENCY OF COLLEGE.
Dr. W. W. Daniel Remains In Charge
or Institution Until Successor is
Picked by Board.
Columbia, June 17.?-David Webster
Danie'l, head of the English depart?
ment In Clemson college, yesterday
declined to accept the presidency* of
Columbia college, to which position
he was elected by the board of trus?
tees of that institution June 1. Dr.
Daniel explained in a letter to P. H.
Hyatt, member of the board of trus?
tees, that conditions at this time were
such as to preclude the possibility of
his acceptance.
The office was made vacant eg* the
resignation several weeks ago pi the
Rev. W. W. Daniel, D. D., who. has
been president of the school 16 ynars.
Failing health Induced his resignation
last month, but he will remain at; the
head of the institution u itil his suc?
cessor has been chosen. Prof, ^an
lel of Clemson Is a nephew qf the re?
tiring official. Mr. Hyatt said yester?
day that no plans of the trustees.had
yet been formed, as general notenca
tlon of the .declination by the Cjem
oon professor had not yet been niswe.
the limit of ordering an attack; upon
Gen. Pershing's troops. There'is no
Indication that President Wilson has
any Intention of weakening In his. de?
termination to keep the exposition
where it Is. It is also evident. how?
ever, that the administration has no
present purpose of ordering renewed
activities after bandits by the column,
except in the limited zone in which
it has been operating with signal suc?
cess for some weeks.
Gen. Pershing's recent reports have
Indicated that he has succeeded in
clearing out all organised bands of
outlaws in the vicinity of his camps.
Some officials . here haVe bei i\ in?
clined to look upon the Carransa note
and many of his other more or less
hostile actions as attempts to pi
the radical anti-American ek?
ln Mexico without actually brit
on hoetlitles with tho Uni
g^maToTSnml
always fallen just short of the word
or act that would have made a clash
certain. These officials believe Car
rahsa is playing a game of bluff, and
that much as he might hate Villa, the
direct cause for the present situation,
he dared not attempt to capture the
bandit and turn him over to the
United States for punishment because
he feared to make a national hero
and martyr of his former ally against
Huerta. '
In this connection It was learned
In diplomatic circles tonight that for?
eign agents in Mexico believe Villa to
have been stricken with paralysis as
a result of wounds received during or
after the Columbus raid. He Is said
to be In hiding In the hills and It is in?
timated that Carranza officials could
put their hands on him in a few days
if they so desired.
The Mexican situation is certain to
come up in congress when the two
houses resume active business this
week. To defray the expenses of
mobilizing the National Guard and
maintaining it in the federal service,
emergency appropriations will be
needed immediately. Congress grant?
ed the war department liberal emer?
gency funds because of the border
situation some time ago. These a.'e
virtually gone now, and Secretary
Baker probably will submit a largely
increased estimate within a few days.
No official would hazard a guess as to
the sum that might be needed.
Summed up tonight, the situation
as to Mexico was this: President Wil?
son's policy is unchanged, although
he has taken the last possible step
short of calling for volunteers to de?
fend the border. American troops
are in Mexico for that purpose and for
that purpose only. This has been
stated over and over again by Mr.
Wilson and now has been affirmed by
the Democratic platform upon which
ho will seek re-election. The platform
also states, however, that the troops
are to remain in Mexico until tho de
facto government uses its military
forces to police the border region so
thoroughly that renewed raiding is
improbable. The Washington gov?
ernment has little faith In the assur?
ances of Gen. Carransa that vic is able
to do this and has accomplished much
in that direction, raiding has Increased
rather than diminished since addi?
tional Mexican troops were ordered
Into Chihuahua and other northern
BtatOS, It has been made plain, offi?
cials said, that only American troops
could be counted on to safeguard
American interests on the border.
Even with the call for militia, how
BRIGADE 10 CAMP AI S1YX.
THREE REGIMENTS TO BE MO?
BILIZED THERE.
Florida to Send One Regiment Pre?
liminary Plans Call for Large Body
of Troops in Lexington County.
Columbia, June 19.?That the camp
at Styx, in Lexington county, will be
a brigade post, two regiments from
South Carolina and one from Florida
being quartered* there for training, Is
the understanding of South Carolina
militia officers who are familiar with
the preliminary plans for mobilization
of the National Guard. The com
mnader of the post will be named by
the president after the mobilisation
orders .have been executed.
[ For the mustering in of the State
troops at Styx Capt. J. Malcolm
{Graham, Nineteenth infantry, U. S. A.,
will be designated. He Is now assigned
to this State as inspector-instructor
of militia. 1
Maj. P. J. Drew of Barnwell, quar?
termaster, will be in charge of the
preliminary arrangements necessary
to prepare the camp for the reception
of the troops. The companies can not
begin to move before 48 hours after
notification, it ie assumed, and they
have five days in which to make their
preparations and report if so much be
needed.
The camp at Styx, In Lexington
county, is 7 miles southwest of Co?
lumbia, between the Seaboard Air
Line and the Southern railways, being
about three-quarters of a mile from
Styx on the Southern and about a
mile and a half from Dixianna on the
Seaboard.
The camp site comprises 1,007 acres
on a sandy ridge, with good drainage
lacilities. There is provision now for
water supply for one regiment of in?
fantry. If more men are encamped,
however, the question can be very
easily solved by a few days' work.
Militia officers believe that the time
of the National Guard at the Styx
camp will be filled with special train?
ing in field problems. Close order drill,
It ie assumed, the troops to be called
already know well enough, and the
days will be mainly devoted to study
?%-dther points, guard and outpost
m^***-*?***?*^ - tmtremmsneot
work, scouting, perhaps practice
marches, camp sanitation and a very
considerable amount of rifle practice.
For this last purpose the Styx camp is
particularly well fitted. There is a
modern rifle range with 27 targets al?
ready there.
GERMANS MORE ACTIVE.
Artillery and Infantry Attacks on
Mouse Increase in Violence.
Paris, June 19.?An increase in the
violence of the German bombard?
ment of the French positions west of
the Mouse is reported. Also an in?
fantry attack against the French at
Hill 321 east of the Meuse. On the
west Chattancourt and Dead Man's
Hill are under heavy shell fire.
RUSSIANS DRIVING ON.
Austrians Fleeing Across the Carpa?
thian Mountains.
Petrograd, June 19.?With CZerno
witz In their hands the Russians are
now driving with greater vigor to?
ward Lemberg. Tho Russians are
pouring across the Pruth river while
the Austrians are fleeing in disorder
across the lower ranges of the Carpa?
thian mountains.
During the absence from the city
of Dr. Carl B. Epps, registrar of vital
statistics, for Sumter and Concord
townships, Health Officer W. J. Mc
Kagen will act in that capacity.
It is estimated that the average
manure pile will breed 900,000 flics
per ton?
ever, it was declared emphatically to?
night there was nothing to indicate
that intervention plans were being
considered. Stress was laid in every
official quarter on the fact that only
defensive measures were in progress
and it was reasserted that if hostllitic
follow they will come only from acts
of the Mexican officials.
Senator Sheppard of Texas received
a telegram today from residents of
San Bcnito and the lower Rio Grande
valley asking the federal government
to furnish them with arms and ammu?
nition for use in protecting themselves
and their property. The request was
submitted to the war department, with
a suggestion by the senator that it be
granted. Col. Bullard, commanding a
force of American troops near San
Benito, is said to have advised the
citizens to take steps to protect them?
selves.
War With Mexico
Now Seems Certain.
United States Government Will Place Blame
on Garranza Government for Hostile Steps
Note From Administration Refuses Withdrawal of American
Forces Until Order is Restored in Northern Mexico, Insur?
ing Safety of American Citizens and Their Property?Note
From Garranza Demands That Americans Do Not Lind
Except With Special Permission of Officers?Militia May
Be Ordered Into Service Immediately.
Washington, June 19.?No precau?
tion is being overlooked for placing
the country in readiness for war?
few officials believe that war can be
averted. They say that if it must
come, then the administration will
place the blame on Carranza.
The note refusing to withdraw
Gen. Pershing's troops, as demanded
weeks ago, has been sent to the state
department from the White House
and it will be started by tonight to'
Carranza. It says that the American'
forces will remain in Mexico until
complete order has been restored
along the border. It is reported that
warning is given Mexicans that they
must not commit any overt act.
The exodus of American consular
officers from Mexico will soon be com?
plete as Consul Hanna, formerly at
Monterey, notifies the State depart?
ment that Consul Stilliman has left
Saltillo for America.
Army officers declare that the tot?
tering Carranza government wants
war with America so it can draw the
people together behind it. Army of?
ficials say that Gen. Pershlng is able
to take care of himself.
New warnings have been given
American citizens to leave Mexico by
Secretary Lansing.
Moxican Minister Arredondo says
the note delivered to the State depart?
ment this morning insisted that Amer?
ican naval officers and men be or?
dered not to land on either coast of
Mexico until special permission has
American officers were arrested, but
later released and that two Mexican
soldiers were wounded and one Mex?
ican civilian wounded. When the
Americans approached In a launch a
drunken Japanese fired on them and
the Americans returned the fire. Then
the two American officers landed and
were arrested. A parley was held
and the release of the officers was or?
dered, and then all the Americans re?
turned to the ship.
Secretary of War Baker has sent a
letter to Chairman Hay of the house
military affairs commltttee asking if
the militia can be immediately order?
ed into Mexico if needed. The pres
sent law permits this after July 1,
but Secretary Baker is afraid to wait
that long before getting the power
to order them into Mexico. .
PERHAPS AN ULTIMATUM.
Important Communication Delivered
to Secretary Lansing by Mexican
Embassy.
Washington, June 19.?The Mexi?
can embassy delivered a note to Sec?
retary of State Lansing early this
morning. It is said to be an import?
ant communication based on tele?
graphic advices from Mexico City. It
is rumored that it is an ultimatum
demanding that American troops be
withdrawn from Mexico in seven days.
President Wilson is considering calling
for volunteers, but is holding this up
until he finds out what Carranza ex?
pects to do. This will probably be
known today. The governors of all
the States Inform Secretary of War
Baker that the National Guard is be?
ing called out.
WAR PREPARATIONS RUSHED.
Big Preparation for War Being Made
at Fort Sam Houston.
San Antonio, June 19.?War prepa?
rations on a big scale are being
ushed at Fort Sam Houston.
Special precautions have been or?
dered by Gen. Funston for guarding
Gen. Pershing's line of communica?
tions.
SERRANO TO COMMAND.
Attack on PcTshing Expected Soon?
Carran/41 Trying to Kais?' Half Mil?
lion Men.
?I Paso. June 19.?-Gen. Serrano,
chief of staff of Minister of War
Obregon has arrived at Juar z. It is
believed that he has been designated
to take supreme command of the
Mexican forces and lead active oper
ations against Gen. Pershing. It is
reported that Cam is trying te
equip five hundrec 5? jusand men f ?r
immedia te servic <r / ?? -<
-
MADE TC AVE TEXAS.
More Than v ? ndrcd Mexicans Do*
por <r i'rom Laredo.
Laredo, r ?o e, June 11.?A hun?
dred Mexi ** , have been deported
during tl ast twenty hours. The
feeling J nse here.
MILITiA BEING MOBILIZED.
National Guard or Many States Re?
spond to Call.
Washington, June 19.?Reports
from the following cities say that toe
militia Is being mobilized rapidly:
Harrisburg, Pa., Baltimore, Chicago,
eight thousand; Indianapolis, two
thousand; Boston, five thousand; Con?
cord, Providence, Burlington, Albany,
New York, seventeen thousand;
Frankfort, Ky., Salt Lake City, Chey?
enne, Columbus, Ohio, Atlanta, two
regiments infantry battalion field ar?
tillery, two squadrons of cavabryi
Nashville, eighteen hundred; Tren?
ton, Lansing, Richmond, twenty-five
hundred, Hartford.
RETURNS FROM CONVEHTION,
Governor Convinced That
WiU be Suaxssfnl la
Party' United. ,
returned to Columbia yeel
attending the national tiftfc?
convention at St. Louis. The govern?
or was elected chairman of the Soath
Carolina delegation. He returned to
Columbia firmly convinced that the
Democrats will be victorious In the
November election. The party, he
said, Is united solidly for the impend*
ing fight.
STATEMENT BY GOVERNOR.
Says Take Care of Jobs Held by Ute
National Guardsmen.
Columbia, June 18.?Ready to re*
spond the minute orders are received
from Washington for the mobilisation
of the South Carolina troops, Gov.
Manning and Adjt. Gen. Moore re?
mained on duty until after midnight
to receive the official instructions to
mobilized the South Carolina militia.
The governor's office was kept open
throughout the night, and he remain?
ed in touch with a telephone at hie
side to start the machinery in mo?
tion which would gather the militia
at camp Styx.
The governor read the press dis?
patches telling of the c.xll by the pres?
ident for the militia for use on tho
Mexican border, and last night dic?
tated the following statement to the
people and the National Guard:
"I know that the National Guard
will gladly and willingly respond to
the call to aid in the defence of
American rights. American lives and
American honor. I feel certain those
who employ men who are members
of the militia will make satisfactory
arrangements whereby the men can
respond for service on the border
without Injury to their positions, so
that South Carolina will sustain her
enviable reputation for patriotism and
devotion to duty. 1 know there will
be the best of co-operation between
the people and the National Guard.
South Carolina stands ready to fur?
nish promptly her quota of men for
service in this crisis."
Columbia. June 17.?Pledges filed
by candidates this afternoon were:
John T. Duncan for governor; Andrew
J. Bethen for re-election as lieutenant
governor, and D. W. McLaurin for
treasurer.
Columbia. June 17.?Thirty Citadel
cadets will be detailed for rifle prac?
tice with the United States marine
corps at Winthrop, Va., according to
information received yesterday at the
adjutant general's office. The endet?
will remain at the proving grounds
,for 30 days.
