Citizen
finhM xvhn IsiVt known In his
A man doesn't know what is in him
until he tries and he hasn't tried
until he has advertised Scribe
u -- "
W ran saMv lav the blame
at the u h'-9. or advertising; Proof
, -.y
VOL. XXXV, JSC 38
. .. -
HYDE PARK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 21, 1916.
$1.25 A YEAR
Hyde Park Garage
The proprietors of the Hyde Park
Oaeagk announce that they are now
ready far business in their new and com
modious quarters on Church street, Hyde
Park. They have secured the services of
A. Lee Cowles of Craftsbury, Vt., who
comes very highly recommended both as
a gentleman and as an expert in Garage
work, having bad six years experience in
the work at Bridgeport, Conn., since
caking a training course with the Buick
Auto Co. at Fliut, Mich., following grad
uation from Goddard Seminary in class
of 1910. With Mr. Cowles as their expert
and ready man tourists, as well as local
patrons, will receive prompt attention
and guaranteed service.
HYDE PARK GARAGE
OUTING
SHOES
Are You Farming
FOR PROFIT?
Then join our ioo patrons
and bring your cream to us
filHOH VALLEY CREAMERY
C. B. STORY, Prop.,
Korth Hyde Park, . . Vt.
I
BIG DEMAND 1 Will
pay 7 to $8 per ton de
livered at Morrisville. I
want everything you
have to sell in old Junk
OSCAR KAHN
Tel. 25-5 Lake Street, Morrisville, Vt.
Morrisville's Original Junk Man I
1
For every member of the
family, in large variety o
Styles and Sizes.
Some very late arrivals in
While Rubber Soled
Pumps and Oxfords
for both men and women.
Most attractive prices for
the higest grade goods.
F. C. Luce & Co.,
Agency for
Queen Quality Shoes The Packard Shoe
For Women For Men
F,
Vt.
ICE CREAM
Sunday Morning Delivery.
We have arraneed to delivei Ice Cream. prop
erlv nacked. every Sunday morning. The kind
mother makes, only the best fresh cream used,
Please order before Saturday.
H. DODGE fit SON, Alamo Dairy, Morrisville,
A Satisfied Customer is a
Most Drawing Advertisement
traded with us season after
are the advertising: source
this
Our customers who have
season to their full satisfaction
that has made such a marked increase in ou" business
season, and are bringing us new customer! everyTday.
WE WANT YOU, TOO.
If you haven't been at this store yet for your wants,
and don't know of the advantages in trading w'th us, better
come and see for yourself what a large assortment we carry
in every line, and try some of the wonderful values we
offer. The satisfaction you will get will surely make you a
permanent customer for us and an advertiser for this store.
Some of the special values we offer are:
Women's White and Colored Washable Dresses
at $2.85 and $4.98
Summer House Dresses at OSc and $1.30
Women's Washable Skirts in White and Colors
at $1.00, $1.48, $2.00 and $2.98
-Girls' Dresses at C9c and $1.00
Women's Waists in white and combination colors
in Yoile and Washable Silks
at $1.39, $2.00 and $2,48
Women's Summer Kiuionas
at S9c, $1.39 and $2.00
Hoys' and Girls' Play Suits .and Dresses, Indian,
Base Ball, Military, Cowboy and Bough
Bider Suits Priced from 09c to $2.50
Boys' Washable Suits at 50c, $1.00 and $1.50
MEN'S AND YOUNG MEN'S SUITS
at $12.50, $15.00 and $17.50
The values we give you at these pricesare the very
values which are building up our clothing business, because
they are hard to match at these prices.
We will give you the best Suits your money can buy
at $7.50 and $10.00
Hen's and Boys' Straw and Washable Hals
From 50c to $3.00
Soft Shirts and Sport Shirts at 50c, $1.00 and $1.50
Indian Moccasins for Men, Women and Children from $75c
to $20
Big values in Underwear and Hosiery for Men, Women and
Children, including the Hatch one-button Union Suit for
Men at $1.00
WOMEN'S SUITS and COATS
ONE-THIRD OFFzsa
Great assortment of styles, materials and colors.
Sizes running to 50 in Coats and Suits.
A. J. SALEEBY,
"The Store That Saves You Monej,
JOHNSON, . ... . VERMONT
BUSINESS NOTICES.
Also
Wanted. To buy some good Hens,
some good Native Meet.
A. W. Waite, Morrisvill
Wanted. Girl for general housework ; middle-
aged woman pre! erred.
R. W. Eaton, Morrisville.
Strawbhrribs. Shall begin to pick about
the 24th, and will be glad to fill orders, postal or
telephone. W. b. Newcomb, Morrisville.
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
Calves, Cheap Cows, Bulls and Hogs.
Tel.124-31 John Miner, Hyde. Park.
For Salb. I want to sell my entire stock of
merchandise at North Hyde Park. I have a good
stock and a good trade which I will sell at a bar
gain. Reason for so doing, I am troubled with
asthma in this section. Apply at once to
Fred L. Miller, North Hyde Park.
For Sale. One Deering Mowing Machine in
good repair, 5 ft. cut, one weeder with shafts, also
one buggy, pole and yoke, good as new. Will
sell the above cheap for cash, or would trade tor
light express wagon with two seats. Inquire of
R. D No. 2 C. G. Day, Morrisville.
See Herb. I have yet for sale pair driving
harness, hay, oats mixed with peas, barley, stove
cream buggy, cream wagon, set new upholstered
sleighs, mare 6 years old, mare 3 years old, organ,
sewing machine, tank heater, old potash kettle,
lumber, harrow, platform scales, and a lot of other
stuff, all for sale cheap. Must be sold.
W. 3. INBWCOMB. Morrisville
MORRISVILLE
W. J. JAtwell of Eden was a business
visitor here Tuesday.
Miss Nellie Burroughs went Monday
to St. Johnsbury to spend the summer
Arthur Currier of Stanbridge, East
Quebec, is visiting his sister, Mrs. S. C
Whittemore.
Harold Badger left the first of the
week for Bristol, Conn., where he has
employment in a munition factory.
Regular meeting of Mt. Vernom Lodge,
F, & A. M., tonight. Postponed from
last week on account of grand Lodge.
Sacks Bros., the clothing merchants in
tne LSurke oiock, report business as
starting off very well. They have a big
stock.
C. T. Morrill and Earl Morrill left the
first of the week for Granville, Vt., in
the interests of the Warren Leather
Company.
Miss Maud Chaffee, instructor in Bur-
ington High School, came Monday TO
pend the summer with her father, Orson
W. Chaffee.
J. L. Goodkin and bride arrived Mon
day from their wedding tour and will be
at home in the F. C. Peck house on Har-
ison avenue.
The graduating class of Peoples Acad
emy presented their class play, "The
Choice", at Jeflersonville Friday night
to a large and appreciative audience.
Flags! We have a few left; you'll want
one of them for use Fourth of July and
during the campaign. Get one while
they are going; 5x8 feet, fast colors
98 cents and the coupon.
Several from the local A. C. church, in
eluding the pastor and wife, Rev. and
Mrs. J. J. Bennett, expect to attend the
campmeeting at Beebe, Quebec, which
commences June 21, continuing over the
2nd of July.
Prof. Bennett, merchant of Eden Mill,
and who has the faculty of drawing
sweet and dulcet strains from the violin,
so much so that he is du'ubed " the left'
handed fiddler," was a visitor in town
the first of the week.
Supt. and Mrs. C. D. Howe and chil
dren leave Thursday for Salem, N. Y.,
where they will attend the marriage of
Miss Helen Durfee, a sister of Mrs.
Howe, to Richard Palmer. Mrs. Howe
and children will remain seyeral weeks,
but Mr. Howe will return next week.
In spite of the inclement weather a
large number of Masons and several
members of the Eastern Star attended
the Methodist church in a body last Sun
day, listening to an inspiring and im
pressive sermon by Pastor Best on "The
Great Light."
Ernest G. Marstcn and Mrs. Martha
Marston nave purchased the R. J. Cas
well farm of Harry Smith and took pos
session Thursday, June 8. Felix Burnor
of this village bat purchased the Mars
ton place in District No. 19. and has
moved bis family there.
Mrs. G. H. Prior is expected to return
this week Thursday from Rochester, N.
H., where she has been the past two
weeks, visiting relatives. An uncle, C.
C Ferrey, who lives with a daughter in
Rochester, recently suffered a shock, par
alyzing bis right side, affecting mind and
speech. Mr. Ferrey formerly lived in
North Hyde Park.
Tomorrow several members of Morris
ville Camp, M. V. of A., will attend the
Vermont State Log Rolling Association
meeting to be held in Essex Junction.
The speakers will be State Lecturer M.
P. Maurice and the Rev. Walter Baker
of Morrisville, State Deputy A. O. Pal
mer of Burlington and the Rev. Mr
Washburn of Wtnooski. Among the at
tractions will be a baseball game be
tween the Johnson and Essex Junction
Death of Mrs. G. A. Wilkins
Mrs. Glenn A. Wilkins, who had been
in poor health for several months, died
last evening at 8:15, from the effects of
Bright's disease. She had failed rapidly
for the past two weeks and for tw days
the end had been hourly expected.
Funeral services will be held from the
home Friday afternoon at two o'clock,
Rev. R. D. Cranmer of the Universalist
church officiating. The bearers will be
Dr. George L. Bates of Morrisville, Lest
er H. Greene and Dewey T. Hanley of
Montpelier, E. M. Stevens of Kansas
City, Mo., Roy L. Patrick and Robert L.
Collimer of Burlington.
Mara oa- nougnton was born in
Waterville May 28, 1868, to Benjamin
and Sarah Marcy Houghton. Her girl
ho'od days were spent in Wateryille,
where her parents resided for many
years. She was united in marriage to
Glenn A. Wilkins on October 12, 1897
and after residing in Hyde Park a few
years, they moved to Morrisville four
teen years ago, where they have since re
sided. Besides her husband and a little
daughter, Barbara Small Wilkins, the
deceased is survived by two sisters, Mrs.
C. E. Bragg of Waterville, Mrs. W. II.
Norris of Graniteville and one brother,
Orange G. Houghton of Waterville. All
three were here during the last few days.
The deceased was a member of Coral
Chapter, O. E. S. of Morrisville.
Mrs. Wilkins was a woman of many
beautiful traits of character, and her de
mise, while yet in the prime of life, is
deeply mourned by a large number of
friends. Her love of home and sympa
thetic interest in the joys and sorrows of
others, were notable in a life that will be
long remembered for its unselfishness
and; thoughtfulness for others. To Mr.
Wilkins, Barbara and other sorrowing
relatives, the sympathy of the communi
ty goes out in large measure.
high schools.
John L. Jones went to Essex Junction
today to attend the Woodmen's Field
Day.
Mrs. Alma Goodell of Woodsville, N,
H., has been a guest of her parents. Mr.
and Mrs. Felix Burnor, the past few
days.
M. a,w, Simpson, who passed com-
mericement week with herdaughter, Miss
Mary Jean Simpson, went to Greensboro
Saturday.
Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Merrill returned
Monday from a visit of several days
with Mr. and Mrs. John Parsons in
Cambridge.
Geo. C. Gould went to Burlington Sat
urday, where he met his granddaughters,
Misses Ethel and Marion Farr, who will
spend some time at the Gould home.
Mrs. J. Thatcher Sears went to Greens.
boro Saturday, remaining over Sunday
at the H. A. Slayton cottage with the
Camp Fire Girls of the Congregational
church, who are passing a week in camp.
Miss Permelia Raymond went to the
Fanny Allen hospital Monday, where she
will undergo an operation for rupture.
She was accompanied by her father,
Frank Raymond.
H. R. C. Watson of New York City,
who is spending the summer in Brandon,
has been a guest at The Randall several
days the past week, while visiting his
friend, W. G. McClintock.
Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Munn of Johnson
and son, G. A. Munn of Neponsit, Mass
and daughter and husband, Mr. and
Mrs. E. F. Ackerman, of Swanton, were
guests over Sunday of Mr. and Mrs. Ray
Stearns.
One of the hest fields of strawberries
ever seen in this section and attracting
much attention is on the well-tilled farm
of E. T.Ryder and son on Laporte road
A. W. Waite has contracted for the
whole yield for his grocery trade.
In a drunken row at the boarding place
of Tony, near the tannery Sunday Frank
and John Sulkoski gave each other a
severe beating. A complaint was made,
but when the officers went for them
Monday morning they had left for parts
unknown.
The Women of the Universalist Soeiety
will bold their annual June food sale on
Saturday of this week, beginning at 3
o'clock. The committee request that
all articles be sent in as early as 2:30
that there may be ample time for mark
ing the same.
Principal and Mrs. J. Thatcher Sears
leave tonight for Melrose, Mass , where
they will visit at Mrs. Sears' home,
going from there to the home of Mr.
Sears' parents on the North Shore. Mr.
Sears will be in Morrisville in July in
connection with his work for next year
at Peoples Academy.
Mrs. Nettie Law went to Middlebury
last Friday, where she visited her sistet,
Mrs. John Stiles, and attended Com
mencement exercises at Middlebury Col
lege. Mrs. Law will go to Middlebury
this fall, where she will act as matron at
a fraternity house, of which Urban Par
ker is a member. Her son, Lin wood,
will enter the freshman class this fall.
THE EARLE STORE
ALL SUITS AT A DISCOUNT.
Every suit in stock will be closed out at a good round
discount. We have a few suits that will fit the stout
and hard to fit lady ; a few in regular sizes, and some
of the Misses' sizes left. This is according to our
regular custom, simply to keep the stock cleaned up
and be ready for the fall buying. See if we have not
just what you want.7
WASH SILK WAISTS.
A new lot of those pretty Tub Silk Waists just in.
They are getting to be scarce in the market, so if you
are waiting for one come in as soon as possible.
HOUSE DRESSES.
We have a full line in sizes of the popular Ideal house
gowns. Most any lady knows what this name signi
fies, for they are the best fitting gown made. A fresh
lot of Kimona Aprons are also among the new arrivals.
CHILDREN'S PARASOLS
and new things for the neck wear are just in.
GEORGE R EARLE
Morrisville,
Vermont
La Fiesta, July 11 and 12
The Y. P. C. U. of the Universalist
church will present "La Fiesta," an oper
etta, which has been most successfully
given by local talent in many optics and
towns, under the direction of Miss Har-
riette Harris. There will be 125 dancers
from among: Morrisville young people.
Watch for more particulars later.
Mitchell Mid-Year Six
Geo. H. Almon of Montpelier was i
business visitor in town Monday, mak
ing the trip in a handsome new Mitchell
car, for which he is agent in this section
of Vermont. The new Mitchell, out
April 15, is by far the latest model
shown, the design having been complet
ed after the New York shows. It is the
only car with the Batecantilever springs.
Mr. Almon is well-known in Morrisville
as one of the firm who installed Morris
ville's municipal lighting plant.
"As Ye Sow" at The Bijou
A special five part production at The
Bijou theatre this evening will be Alice
Brady in that most interesting and up
lifting production, "As Ye Sow", drama'
tized from the story of that title written
by the late Rev. John Snyder of Wellesley
Hills, Mass. The fact that the author o
As Ye Sow" was the father-in-law of
Lewis Delano, a brother of H. L. Delano
of Morrisville, will be of special interest
to Morrisville people.
A Good Suggestion
Why wouldn't it be a good thing for
the merchants of this village to "get to.
gether" and agree upon just what holi
days and evenings they . will cloe up
throughout the year? There appears to
be a partial agreement as to some of the
closing up times, but the public is igno.
rant of just when the stores are to close.
Let there be an agreement that will be
in force throughout the year a printed
schedule. That would do away with
seeing what the other fellow is going to
do about it and the public would know
just what to expect.
Death of Mrs. Eliza L. Strong
Mrs. Eliza L. Strong, who has been
critically ill for a number of weeks, died
at ber rooms in the D. S. Luce house on
Summer street at 1:30 o'clock this morn
ing. Mrs. Strong had been failing rapidly
the past few days and her daughter, Miss
Mary Strong, was summoned from Gard
ner, Mass., the latter part of last week
The funeral services will be held from
the Methodist church Friday afternoon
at two o'clock, with a prayer at the
house at 1:30.
Morrisville Boys in Service
The call for mobilization of Vermont
troops, Monday, takes two Morrisville
boys, Whittier Gates, son of Postmaster
Gates, at Norwich University, and Gor
don Brooks, a U. V. M. student, who be
longs to Company O. Roger Blake of
Eden also belongs to Company O. This
company has been camping since Mon
day on the University grounds, but was
ordered to Fort Ethan Allen today.
Whittier Gates is a member of the
First Squadron of Cavalry, made up of
cadets, and said to be one of the best
drilled cavalry companies in the country.
It is presumed that tne squadron may
later be be ordered for duty along the
Rio Grande, to take the place of the reg
ular troops.
Pease-Bedell
Miss Addie Ann, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Fred C. Bedell of Orford, X. II..
was united in marriage today to Clarence
Henry Pease at Orford. The- bride is a
sister of Miss My rtie Bedell, formerly
employed here, and has many friends In
Morrisville who win extend oet wisnes
and congratulation.
HYDE PARK
Hugh Scofield is spending a few days in
Burlington.
Geo. White of Montpelier was in town
last Monday.
Thirty-six took dinner at the Hyd
Park Inn last Sunday.
Mrs. E. P. Grow is visiting- her daugh
ter, Mrs. Russell Page.
The village water is being installed in.
the Bronx neighborhood.
John Ladeau is spending a few day
with his daughter at Craftsbury.
E. E. Badger has purchased an auto
truck for use in his hardware business,
Ray Kinney, who has a position on the
Rutland Railroad, visited relatives here
recently.
Delay in the arrival of material for the
new Library building is hindering prog
ress a little on the same.
Mrs. Marshall Shattuck is home from
South Hero for a short visit. " Deal ' "
many friends are pleased to see her.
Edw. Godette and family went to Ver-
gennes Sunday and on Monday attended
the mar rage of his sister, Miss Godette
at that city.
Mr. and Mrs. H, C. Fisk arrived here
from their Florida home Tuesday and
will spend the summer in Vermont, mak
ng the Hyde Park Inn their headquarters.
Mr. and Mrs. E. M. Stevens and chil
dren, Edson, Jr, and Emma, of Kansas
City, Mo., arrived here Monday tor a
visit at the home of his parents, Mr, and
Mrs. I. T. Stevens.
The electric range fever has reached
this place and among the first to install
one of these modern household equip-.
ments is Col. McFarland. Undoubtedly
others will be put in, as they are consid
ered not only labor-saving, but a saving
n fuel expense.
The summer railroad time-table goes '
into effect next Monday. The only ma
terial change is the putting on of the
Hyde Park train, which leaves this place
tor St. Johnsbury at 6.0S a.m., returning
reaches nere at 9.24 p.m. (A great train
this to do shopping and take in "the
movies" at Morrisville.) The running
time of the other passenger trains is as
follows: Express, going west, leaves at
S 37 am, going east leaves at 7.12 D.m.:
Mail, going east, leaves at 9.31 a n.J
going west, leaves at fo.Ol p. m. Paste
this up alongside the kitchen clock, at
the railroad is too poor to to publish
time-tables in the newspapers.
X
