WEATHER
NEW YORK CITV
Average price of cop
per for week ending
March 22, 26.50
Arizona-Saturday, fair,
not so cold.
tVjl VN02IUV 'XIN30Hd i
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. IS, NO. 259.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, MARCH 26, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
0 hp
PRESIDENT
SEVERE UPON
wSS5STffi2:
News the Object of Which)
is to Stir Up Friction.
EXECUTIVE ISSUES
LENGTHY STATEMENT
Administration Leaders Ex
pect Trouble in Congress j
During the Coming Week
Oxer the Mexican Situation. J
ALARMISTS'
REPORTS
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON', March 23 Presi -
dent Wilson tonight issued a warning
that "sinister and unscrupulous In -
fluences" are spreading alarmist re-
ports about the Mexican situation
with the object of forcing interven-;of
uon oy me inuea oiaie m e,engaKed in a runnins fight with a
the Interest of certain American own
ers oi iM.-x.cnu prupcr.ies.
In a formal statement the Presi-I , . . .
....... , , ,. ..jienci to Santo Nino. Wires were cut
denttold the people of the I nited . .. . . ,
o. ,, . . .,,. j . , on both sides ami attempts made to
States to be on tlieir guard ana not j . . . . .
to credit such stories. He urged those cu ,ne Dria'-9-
...k a;.,. ;.., There were fourteen women and
source and authenticity of every re-
port fro mthe border, and called at
tention again to the government's an
nouncement that the sole object of
the punitive expedition now in
ico was to punish Villa and his fol
lowers.
The news agencies supplying news-
papers have been asked, the President
l.niH tft flaafat In bMninir fliio viav
constantly beforethe Mexican and the
American people. The purpose of the
rjericsn ormmenders was described
as embracing co-operation "in every
possible way" with the forces of Gen.
Carranza. and withdrawal from Mexi- j
can territory as Minn as the nhiect nl
an territory as soon as the object of
...v- ...... . ..,,...,u. ,
The president solemnly warned the j
that there are persons along !
...1. , i; . :
mg and giv.n ride currency as they
can to rumors of the most sensational
anil Ai ct ,1 tKi n tr r.i . t-1 . 1 K ba ..- V. 1 1
...ii u i .1 ..... . i. i.i. ii oi t n uun; ,
unjustified hv the facts.
The President s statement follows: j
"As has already been announced j
t lie expedition into Mexico was or
'dered under an agreement with the
defacto government of Mexico for the
single purpor-e of taking the bandit
Villa, whose forces had actually fnvad-
j .t. . : . .... . I
. u L. e erruory oi uie inuea siates;
and is in no sense intended as an in-
vasion of that republic or an Infringe- menu made by Mrs. Margaret Horton. eo" o. cnus o.,,. lo eet
ment of its sovereignty. I have there- a singer. Assistant District Attorney !deP nd 7"ds OVPr bl,"ak niounlain
fore asked the several news services John T. Dooling declared tonight that'01!8 wb,ere tnf co,d a"d ra,re alT,"kf
to be good enough to assist the ad- j the authorities bar reason to believe 8 ",ost ""possible. I could defy
ministration in keeping this view be-! Dr. Arthur Warren Waite, accused of 1000 "'diers to catch me in that coun
fore the people of this country and I poisoning his fillionaire father-in-law, ; trv and XlUa 'n0 verv nook of
the distressed and sensitive people; John E. Peck, of Grand Rapids, Mich.,i Apart from the keen anticipation of
of Mexico, who are very susceptible, j had designs on the lives of at least 'neW8 that tne American soldiers were
inde d. to reports received about the f0ur persons Mrs. Horton. according : itnin reach of their prey the border
Americans and they are ready to be-;t0 Mr. Dooling, admitted that she had i was mostly interested today in the re
lieve the views and objects of your stayed at a hotel and that Waite !nort from Washington that an agree
government itself. Such, it must be j reistered witj, j,er as Dr and Mrs !ment had DPpn reached in substance
said, are not unnatural because the A w- Matters" j be? ween the First Chief and Washing-
niL'fnr0,1.11 n!y "0U,rCfK0f Jnf0r; ! Mri. Horton. 'who was subjected to:'" hich would permit Gen. Funston
mation for the people on loth sides of I d examjnation was said bv.o "9P Mexican railroads.
rnSrdSut PUh"C PreS 8f K she Zl At Fort Bliss activity was redoubled
1 ' llleved Waite wanted to kill her and o perfect arrangements for the tnov-
In orde rto avoid the creation of j ber husband ; Ing of supplies and equipment to Juer-
erroneous and dangerous impressions j Mr rjoolin'g added that Mrs. Horton hre thev will be sent south on
in this way. I have called upon you I ... u-oit. h.. h n,.r.ithe Mexico Northwestern Railwsv.
of the news agencies to use thu nt.l
most care not to give news stories.
regarding this expedition, the color i
' . . iu milium BLones oi iroop
mnTAmante rxrA ... i 1 i . .1.. 1 "
which might be given tha interpreta-!
. .
tion and to refrain from publishing
unverified rumors of unrest in the
Mexican republic.
"I feel that it is more disagreeable
to imoress unon both our own people
and the reople of Mexico the fact that
the expedition is simply necessary pu
nitive measure, aimed solely at the
elimination of the mauraders who
, raided Columbus and who infested un
protected districts near the bord
winch they use as a base in maki
of our citizens within our owri terri I
lory.
"It is the purpose of our commander!
to co-operate in every possible way
the forces of General Carranza in re-
moving this cause of irritation to
both governments and to retire from
Mexican territory so soon as that ob-
J ... ' , lr"mpiisnea.
u is my dutv to warn the nennto
mr- l M.iea ;iais mat there are
persons all along the border who are
actively engaged in originating and
giving as wide currency as they can to
rumors of the most sensational and
disturbing sort which are wholly un
justified by the facts. The object of
this traffic i.i falsehoods is obvious,
it is to create terrible friction be
tween the government o fthe t'nited
States and the government in Mexico
for the pumose of bringing about in
tervention In the interests of certain
Ameri-inn owners of Mexican proper
ties. This otijoct cannot be obtained
so long ns sane and honorable men
are in control of tbis government, but
very serious conditions may be crea
(Continued on I'ase .1)
AEROPLANE SERVICE.
COLONIA DCBLAN, Chi..
March 25.7-1 By radio to Co
lumbus) An aeroplane mail
and dispatch service was estab
lishedtoday between the' bor
der and the advanced base of
the American expeditionary
forces here.
General J. J. Pershing start
ed today to make a two day
inspection trip of all the troops
in the field. There have been
no clashes involving American
troops since the start of the ex
pedition and quiet prevails all
through the district occupied,
according to reports to military
headquarters today.
'SPECIAL TRAIN FROM
TnnnrnM UJITU UnMCM
lumiLun mini iiumui
IS BANDIT'S OBJECT
'American Women and Chil
dren Come out of Mexican
City. Villa Bandits Attack
the Train But Are Failed.
! (By Review Leased Wire)
j MONTEREY, Mex.. March 25. A
, special train from Torreon, bringing
j women and children of the American
; coiony. passed through here tonight,
The women were seated on the floor
of a bov car protected by a barrier
tnjnks. The guard on the train
' j large band of Villistas, who rode
Ulnnrsi,!,. fnr Reveral miles from nrev
l,lllnren on lne lra,n wnltn " i cora'
tack of bandits was foiled by the
IP"1"1 arrnai oi cavairy uuuer uru. j
Mex-'Matiaa Ramos, who left San Pedro
j immediately, on learning that the
wires bad been cut.
Vilristas are becoming more aggres-
sive in this section following the ar-
rival of couriers from Villa urging the;
leaders here to imitate his methods
(against "gringos" and exterminate alPmiies. a mountain trail winds through
i iney ' find. An all-day battle at Suo'tjje Sierra Madres. At Tutuaca it
Marcos, five miles of San PeOro. was ends harplv to the southeast until
: fought today by the troops of General it is Ios, in the wi)d and barren coun-
Ramos against the main body of
r:n:.i.. r1. Ttac Cn...
villistas under Canuto Reyes.
are exDressea tor tne ninety Amen-
, " -
cans left in Torreon and Durango. J
Hunger and want of employment, ! "" known t0 rew but him No
. ..... j ' ,irle8 re Known 10 lew dui mm. .-no
aiding tse Villistas in getting recruits. 1
' I
Ufl M A M IQ IUU0I VPT1
If UiflAil lOlfllULlLU
IN WAITE MURDER CASE
B O.i.i. iu I ae1 A7 rm
V.T " 9V iw
NEW l ORK March 25 From state-
i chases.
the nature of which cannot
now be divulged."
Mrs. Horton also told him. he said
, . ... ..... . .
and hart J"n-d her regarding the
extent of her finances.
Mrs. Hortoli was accompanied to use the railroad had been framed,
the district attorney's office by herl The using of Mexican lines by the
husband. Waite is in the prison ward I Americans is expected to be the su
at Bellevue Hospital, where he was preme test as to whether friction with
removed last night after recovering I the Mexican peonle is to be averted
from the effects of drugs that he tookjand real cooperation between the Car
Tuesday. (Continued on page 7)
j Mexican WarDepartment Certain of
Herrera and Other De Facto Leaders
(By Review Leased Wire )
QVERETARO, Mex., March 25.
The war department officially denied
today persistent rumors that Gen.
Luis Herrera had gone over to Villa.
The report of this and other alleged
tdefactions is said to be the work of
reactionaries for the purpose of com
plicating the situation.
The pursuit of Villa bandits is be
coming more rigorous. General Luis
Gutierez today reported the capture
aud execution of Haldomer Santa Ana,
a general attached to Villa forces and
safd to have been one of the party
of 1.500 who remained on the Mexican
side of the border when Columbus was
raided. The execution took place at
the city of Jimener, in the state of
Chihuahua of which Oen. Gutierret is
the military head. General Gutierrez'
reports represent that Villa's forces
are being closely pressed and that
the Mexican troops are tightening thfc
ring around them each day. Troops
under the constitutionalist (eneral,
VILLI FOOLS
PURSUERS
IN NORTH
MEXICO
Rebel Bandit Leader Divided
His Forces. One Engages ;
jt . 1 II I I !
iarrancisias s ne Leaas
the Other into Mountains.
COUNTRY NEAR HIS
BASE IS IMPASSABLE
Chief Concern on Border Is;
to Secure Rail Transporta
tion for the Supplies to be
Sent to Expedition.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
EL PASO. March 25. Villa has out-;
wilted his pursuers by splitting his I
forces, leaving one body to hol! back j
the Carranza forces in the neighbor
hood of Namiquipa, while he himself;
at the head of a picked force, is try
ing to break through the lines of his
enemies south of Madera, according to
information brought here today by an
Aiiiencnn nrrivuig iruiu i titiAun im
Casas Grandes.
This information redoubled the in
terest with which word is awaited
lrom u"n- "re7 7 T 'V""1. J"
listas. According to reports from usu-
any rename sources, ruupiru uu
what is officially known as to the pro-
gress of the punitive columns, Ameri
can cavalry reached Madera yesterday
and should be close on the heels of
the fugitive bandit today.
From Madera to the south, as far as
Tutuaca. a distance
of about .thirty
,ry H0Uth of Mjnaca This trail
. ' ' . .
was
known for years as "Pancho's Road.'
,, . ..,. i,i,. kh., k
11 nan iivuuiaii' 1 11.. ...1 i 1 unir urvn
broken by the bandits and
ifK tntrirft.
j w agons can possibly pierce the deso-
. . n,OUntain region through which
late mouniain region inrougn men
the trail runs. One of the few Anieri-
I cans who are known to have penetrat
ed the district, Ben Harris, a veteran
! scout, who is now living here, declared
j today that if Villa succeeds in reach
ing Tutuaca the task of finding him
' would be a hopeless one.
j "Only Mexican ponies can take that
jroad," he said, "and even they must be
very lightly loaded. The trail skirts
, AT . , .
. Officers In the Quartermaster's de
partment today declared that the ab
solutely could start a tide of supplies
. , n r. t. v, : ,
Casas Grandes within 24 hours after
'word was received that permission to
Serrano, are working in the neighbor-
UR n -r C .... nn. ..mmlinn ,m
the reactionaries and badits.
It is reported here unofficially. I
though on high authority, that General
Pablo Gonzalez will shortly leave hisj
command of a division of the army of!
the east to assume the portfolio of.
the minister of communications in
the Carranza cabinet. j
General Gonzalez was succeeded in
the command of the army of the east
by General Cesario Castro, who will;
leave here tomorrow for Mexico City.
REPLY IS SENT. ! man standing tip-toe could haveserted that the battle took place yes-
Ql'ERETARO, March 24. Via Mex-i touched the rafters with bis finger . terday, but thare was no indication of
ico City, March' 25. General Carran-i,ins- were packed tight long before the the number of men enraged nor ef Uie
za' reply to the latest note of theibar spots in the floor beijan to disap- J result. VUla i believed to bave njy
Washington government was handed! rear. ja lew men with him. some reprice, ia-
today to James L. Rodgers, the Ameri- The preliminaries began, but for alljdiratint that bis total fort e appmxi
can special representative' here, for'1'1 crowd cared the boxers might as mates only about 300. Aruay mMi bar"
transmission to Washington. The re-well bave. been pummeling each other j expressed their cnUficaHoo today at
ply agrees in the main to the Ameri ;ln their own backyards. The specta-j the manner in vhirh the troop uudar
can proposals, but a few unimportant 'or were interested only in the bicithe direction of Carranza are cooper
changes were suggested. ' (Continued on paga three) ating with the American column.
$ 3
DR. HUNT ELECTED.
;
i
i:
i
i
i:
Dr. C. H. Hunt was elected a
public school trustee for a
term cf three years, yesterday,
by a vote of :it4 to 6 votea for
Dr. N. ( r.ledsoe. W. W. Gidley
received only one vote. The
total vote of 391 wa3 small as
compared to previous years.
jThe withdrawal of Dr. Bled
soe, undoubtedly had the eliect
of decreasing the voie. How-'
ever, a lively interest was man
ifosted in liie contest through
out the day. Hunt kuuuers
were in evidence on big uutos,
throughout the district.
News of Dr.Hunt's splendid
victory was received with en
thusiasm and all Interested iu
the cuus of education believe
that Dr. Hunt's official connec
tion with schools will result in
marked progress for the bene
fit of every department of the
Warren District public school
system.
LLARD STILL
RETAfNS HIS
TITLE AS
7
! Kansan Wins from Moran Be-
fore Huge Audience in Ma -
ison Square Garden. Takes
7 of 10 Rounds.
(By Review Leased Wire)
NEW YORK, March 25. Jess Will
ard is still the heavyweight pugilistic
champion of the world. In ten rounds
of fast fighting he defeated Frank !
Moran of Pittsburg here tonight on j
points. I
A crowd of about l.'i.OOO persons paid j
to Fee the fight and vftrni7away appar
ently satisfied with tbe result. It was
th
greatest gathering Madison Square
Garden had ever seen.
Many women I
were in the throng.
Willurd broke his riL'ht hand in the
. , . . . . , . .. . .
.Tr. '
,., ipf. i,n. Moran at a distance.
Moran-s boiit round a the thjrd and
u
hls
is worst was the seventh. He watt
bleeding after the fifth round, and his i
left eve was almost closed at the end. (
Willard was rushed to the ropes in j
the third and received blow after blowi
on the face. The crowd sensed ' a I
knockout but the finishing punch was j
lacking. j
Moran put up a game fight. Mo-it of i
the tin e he crouched and forced the j
fighting. Willard seemed slower on !
his feet than the challenger and ap-1
peared to have an unlimited capacity i
to take punishment. Moran scowled j
as he fought but Willard smiled.
MORAN IS GAME
NEW YORK. March 25. The award
ing of the bout to Willard on noints
was virtually unanimous among the re
porters at tbe ringside, although all i
gave Moran credit for his gameness,
and continual efforts to land a punch j
that would bring down his gigantic op
ponent. PrnniAltip Tor Riflrnrrf nnnnnnrail
that the gate receipts amounted to !
$151,254. of this amount the state re-
about $100,000.' so that Tex Rickard '
and his partner In the enterprise. Sam)
Mi.r.n..liun --.-it 1 A rn miA
.... . .a, r.n. - ..,-. .iui-r foiirvuij
nrnflt nn the hnnt tfirnn rpfuwan1 In'
make anv statement after the bout oth-'
er than to say there would have been I
no fighting if he had not taken the ag'
eressive throughout the ten rounds.
Willard left the Garden immediately
after the bout, refusing to be Inter
viewed. Dr. Lewis Morris, who at
tended the champion as his hotel, said
i that Willard had suffered a slight frar
Iture of the joint of the first index fin
leer of his right hand early in the fight.
jHe added, however, that the big fel
llow otherwise was in good condition
land tbe injury to the finger would not
trouble more than a day or so.
Rickard said after the fight: "Mor-
t
I
Ull
i'5l
GDI
jan put up a eood fight. He is a dnrnilCAN PUNITIVE EXPEDITION. COL
igood boy. Willard was much slower ;OXIA DUBLAN. CHI.. MKX.. March
h'3 "fh ha"d as " ,s ;aid hp cla,m8
''d,d- " did ",.,,."n, t0 makP "'"
difference. He didn t seem to need his
riRiu a goon pari oi me iniif. itne punmve expeauion into rtruro io
1 capture Francisco Villa, the outlawed
INTERESTING CROWD (Mexican bandit. It was evident, how-
NKW YORK. March 25. The doors iever. that Villa him-elf was not in thn
of Madison Square Garden opened iate : party, which comprised only a few
A jostling crowd, impatient at the de-jmen and no engagement resulted,
lay. poured through the runways in. Report sof a battle between Carran
sincle file, tickets in hand. jza troops and Villistas. at Namiquipa.
The big hHll filled slowly. The gal-J
leries. so close to the roof that a tall
i AMERICANS
WHEN SUSS
:i
German Sea Raider
Sinks Herself Is
Version of Berlin
Statement of Teuton Admiral-.
ty Claims that Ship, After.
. Being Hit, Was Destroyed
By Its Own Commander.
. ,
(By Rev.ew Leased Wire.)
Bfc.RL.IN, March 25. (Ua Ainster-
! dam and London) A statement on.
uie engagement in lue .oriu sea uu
February in which the German
auxiliary cruistr1 Greif sauk together
'with the British Alcantara, issued to
day oy the admiralty, says the Greif
blew horaelf up after a battle with
throe British cruisers and one de
stroyer. The statement follows:
,
i "The admiralty staff states
according to news from ariou3 places
w hich has been confirmed, an engage
j ment occurred ou February 29 in the
i northern part oT the North Sea be-
twi-en the German auxiliary cruiser,
Greif and three British cruisers and -one
destroyer. In the course of th ;
battle the Greif was struck by a tor-,
jpedo shot by a great British cruiser
j of some 15.U0O tons and finally blew
I herself up.
"About 150 men of the crew of the
1 Grcif- who8e "''" JtknoB.j
are prisoners ol war to the Briusu.
They are cut off frotn all communica-
tion with the outer world by the
Rritlsh, who observe the strictest se-
crecy regarding events. Measures
against this have been taken."
IMMIGRATION BILL
THRICE VETOED IS
AHAIM RPCflRC UnilCPtct0UUt wnile Berlin declares that l'rt of tbe nntvnnae of the wirele-s:
MUMII1 ULrUflL nUUwL three British cruisers and a detroer,'''reover. when an a-rii.l wire wa im-
were in the action. The Greif was , 1'uvisei!. the operator by aj error ra-
I 1, hu tnrnrf, fn.. . liMMi tun DOrtf'd PTl incorrect liusi.kin m birh
! Burnett Measure, With the Lit-
rarv TVt i Cnrrsidrd hv he German admiralty asserts. 1-ondon boats, and ;
eracy lest, is onswerea Dyigayg a t 6 of the Krejf sfnt lhe;rlva, of ht..
Representatives Expunged.
(By Review Leased Wire)
The Day in Congress.
Senate: Met at noon. Con
tinued consideration of the Indian
appropriation bill.
House: Met at 11 it. m. Gen
eral debate on immigration bill
was resumed. Secretary Baker
testified before appropriation
committee asking $9.000.0UO . for
the expense of bringing the stand
ing army to its maximum and for
pursuing Villa bandits. Adjourn
ed at 3:30 to noou Monday.
House: Labor committee re
ported bill creating employment
bureau in labor department. Rep.
Dyer, of Missouri, introduced re
solution empowering President
Wilson to call 100,000' volunteers
for service in Mexico. Agreed to
hold night session Monday to con
sider pension bills. ' Adjourned
6 p. m. to noon Monday.
WASHINGTON. March
-Debate
of tbe
?" cy t wct-on
l Burnett Immigration Bill
was com-
pleted by the House in committee of
f Ue .W,h'e .,I.a ,
Monday a vote will
be taken to decide whether the test,
which received the presidential veto
three previous
. y .
Immigration bill?.
shall be retained in the measure. Re
publican leader Mann spoke against
the literacy test, declaring that ability
I til rt.ni! unit mrifo T.r mm InflriPDtfl
,. hlir ,.,,,, ,.,at
although he bad voted agatUBt three
j immigration bills because of that fea-
ture, he would support the Burnett
Villista Band Sighted By American
Troops South of Base Headquarters
(By Review Leased Wire.)
HEADQUARTERS OF THE AMER-
IT. nJ and.,t,f Vil"8'"-;
Uighted about fifty mileg south of here
J today by American forces engaged In
approximately 75 miles south of here,
.were received today. Tbe reports as-
CERTAIN TO HAVE
El V AS TORPEDOED 01
II
WAR SUMMARY
(By Review Leased Wire.)
The cross channel M?amer Sussex,
damaged by an external explosion on
Friday afternoon, while 2-r Americans
were ou board, was torpedoed, accord-
ing to a report from
i the American
i consul at Dieppe, received by the
State Department in Washington
through Ambassador Sharpe at Paris.
TUe repor, B,VM fro fixl to e,Kht
-1,,i,.h nr kiiiu,i hv ih
plosion. '
Of the Americans on the fteamert
only two had been reported up to a!
late hour Saturday to the American 1
' embassy in London as among tbe!bassy tonight tnat some American
saved. Unofficially, however, several liVM have bn oit in thp drruotion
others have been accounted for as iof the, Sussex. Then American Ambas-
irescueo. At least two Americans on.K,,.(lr - ohrr v.-.t i
uoaru are known io
.and one of the survi
. --- -- -
.lost her ltTe. while another American
passenger is reported missing.
' i LEUUr Ml UW U. HIi A IJIfTlt',111.
Cable dispatches say that the loss
tr -
total or tony.
A detinite statement that the Sussex
1 1 ... nn i.
was torpedoed romes in a f'aris dis
patch quoting Samue! F. Bemis. of
; edfor ag de,.,arins ,hat he'.n,,a':s. ,,Pr'; ?"1 Psenger, and
saw plainly and unmistakably the
wake of the torpedo, as it came to-
' ward and struck the steamer.
The British naval guard in the,""'"-
, s-ftrf h Swa hf.adf.A nff on ivhrnnrv 29
r..rm.n r.i,i mhw h trxin
, fh. Kiv0,ia u 1. m,.iiiv on.
I rtin tho hlwlrnHA If la nffiftallv An-
nouncd jn London. In the resulting
i engagement both the raider, the aux-
,ijirv cruiaPr Greif, and the British
Iship that stopped her the Galantara'
I were sunk, the fipht being described .
as a hot one. ! ''"euiaieiy Kianruvereu 10 avoiu II.
The German ane Br:Mh statements.''"' v""! stnek in the for
are at variance regarding the engage-rd Part, which was destroyed,
ment. Only one British vessel is; Tu vessel, however, remained a-
float. The fall of the mast Uestroved
cruiser and finally blew herself up.
Alcantara io the bottom.
! There has been no renewal of the
German attacks on Verdun fortress
but the artillery has been notably ac -
j live, .Paris reports. According to; the
Gerniau war office, erdun was set on ,
fire by German shells during the artil-
lery exchanges. Ou the Russian frout
the German lines have been subject'
j to further heavy attacks, both to tbe
(northwest and to the south of Dvin.sk.
) Berlin, however, declares that all;
the Russian attempts to advance
were repulsed.
bill, regardless of whether the' test
was eliminated or not. He declared
"every man of comman sense' prob
ably would seek to escape from Eu-
rope at tbe close of war and he was
unwilling to leave the country un-
nrotected against the probability of
tne greatest, noou oi iimu.gn.uo.. ...c ,., ri,iz,ns W4.r forp,.doi. accord
world has ever seen. By a vote of jnc , ,.onsllIar rt,port , rM.i,,.d br rh
69 to 7s the House rejected a com- ;;,aH. n,.par,ien, odilT
mittee amendment denying admission T,venfv.flv Aricwns were on tii.
to those legally charted with having whether any of them lost
roinmittea a leiony. a runinimm
nroDosal for doubling the head tax
on aliens to $S was also voted down.
PART IS STRICKEN OUT.
WASHINGTON. March 25 A spe
cial House committee appointed tu
consider whether a recent exiension
of remarks by Representative Davis
Of Texas on Texas politics should be
expunged from the Congressional rec
ord virtually decided today to permit
Mr. Davis to strike out portions tbe
committee considered objectionable.
Members of the House bad objected
that tbe language was indecent and
libelous.
The sand storm which 'has caused
increasing discomfort to the Ameri
cans for the last few days, continued
today with no signs of abatement. The
greatest inconvenience has been caus
ed the soldiers, the sand creeping into
their ears, their eyes, their noses,
their clothing and even under their
saddle blankets. Despite the handi
caps, however, both men ana anitnais
are bearing up well. Because of the
heavy demand upon the wireless for
army business orders were issued her
today greatly limiting the amount tiled
by newspaper correspondents accom
panying the expedition.
TRAIN FIRED INTO
LAREDO. Tex., March 25. - Ameri
cans arriving here tonight from Tor
reon aid their train was fired Into bv
500 bandits, supposedly Villa fellewers! Department prwbahly wtf! make in
near Viepca.. between Torrenn and Sal-, quiries of Gewnany as to whether ita
(Wo. t submwiRes w ere concerned. SernntA-
Tbe passenger 'rain w as tllew4t , rv 1-ansing made it clear tcnicht that
nd preceded by a Carranza troope the reports so far received ee-uld aof
IraJn. 'When the reer military traiji , in any sense be considered eenrltisive.
drewr up the Carran.a soldiers foub,t
the bandits off. Tlmre were no Ameri
can casualties.
L0S1 LIVES
Ambassador Sharpe of Paris
Reports to State Depart
ment That All His Advices
Confirm Torpedoing.
MANY U. S. CITIZENS
ON THE FRENCH SHIP
Latest Action of Submarine
May Precipitate Further
Trouble with the German
Government.
(Bv Review Leased Wire.)
,D1C, . ... 0 0 ,
1 -' v'
"' doubt exists at the American em-
r , ""isanor . u. snarpe sent .Naval Lieut.
have been injured . itoinforU l. Smitn by al,tomobile. to
viviirs declares that nouogne tMit ,.venin ,0 investigate
I . 1. .. ... . j; j, , .
.nit - iiui.it- in nip ai.asier ana assist
fU(, Anri,.ans who ne,d ht.lp
Thl ,lptM,Ki,iniw f th Xnri,., CMr.
- ., . . rrivA(1 , ppi.
tbping taken by the embassy. They
; will be forwarded to the State Depart-
',.., , ,. .!,; . .. .v- .
At t A.niuttiii. r rum tuirij U
fifty persons, according to the e.-ti-
the crew of ."t, were lost. The weight
of testimony is
hat the Sussex wast
submarine without
torpedoed by a
1 ,ne Ifxl 01 ,ne onieiai communica-
to!,,on B"-T!,:
"The British steamer Sussex, which
lfarrid about 3So passeneers. 1 tor-
f "e channel on the 24'.h by
aD nemy ."ibmariue.
1 ne rapin ooserveii a torpedo
!,bou' 100 meters from the side and
misled the torpedo boats ani pairol
as a resu! retarded the ar-
P.
"The patrol boat Mrie Theresa.
nevertheless managed to fi;id tbe lis-
tressed vessel and brought back t
; ISouIogno a majority of the passengers,
; Others were t?ken in Kngland by Brii-
isn torpedo to;ts which had arrived
a: the scene of tbe disaster at the
sanu. time a the Marie Theresa,
"The Sussex ens twed to Boulojne
by a stei.mer front that port and now
is there in security.
"I'nhappily. the explosion and the
beginning nf a panic aniorg the pa-t-
s-engers r?"ii!t'-d in o..ie victims. Th
exact number is not known but it is
estimated to be about fifty."
REPORTS NOT CONCLUSIVE
WASHINGTON. March 25. Tli
f-hnntiel snmfl'r titM tnm fd
wrlay in ,he KnsINh rhannf! ,D.fth
Hri!;sh stetuer Knglishman. destroyed
by an explo-ion. both currying Atueri-
tnblished by the official report, though
nariex in dispatches indicated that
American might have been lost. Four
'Americans, employed as horve hand
lers, were aboard ihe Knlishm&a.
None were anion? the res'ii-d and
luixled at the British port. Coming at
a lime when the State Department was
awaiting the result of an investigation
cf the Dutch liner Tubantii and con
sidering affidavits, regarding an al
leged submarine at;ack upon the
French ship Patria. ihe deMruction of
the Engiishmtm and the damaging of
the Sussex i.li-u'd attain the possibility
of complications between the CniieH
States and the Central Powers.
The most important despatch re
garding the Sussex came from Ambas
sador Sharpe at Paris. He reported
that the American consul at Dieppe.
Walter S. Palmer-Sanborn. bad int'orm-
ed him that the Sussex was torpedoed
about six miles off the French coast
while carrying ."!S6 passengers and a
crew of 55 and that sixty to eighty
passengers bad been wounded or killed
Arbassador Sharpe quoted Samuel
Itemis. an American, as saying that ae
has seen several perions killed in ike
explosion.
The fact that the Englishman ha
carried horses to St. Nazaire. frame,
before starting on her return trip dur-
its which she was destroyed, does nt
alter the ci.e in the opinion of offi
cials. The State tVpartment consid
ers that carrying horses does not give
the ship the character of an auxiliary.
In case it is not definitely establish
ed inst what destroyed the F.ntlishaian
and damaged the Sussex the State
AMERICANS ON SHIP
A corrected list ef the American
Continued on Tage Six.)
