UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
?
&
t
'V
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, SUNDAY, MARCH 26, 1916
EIGHT PAGES.
U.S. SOLDIERS OBTAIN
SIGHT OTVILLA MEN
Troops Co-operating With
Carranza, However, Fail
to Engage Bandit.
PURSUIT IS IN SNOW
NUMBER 176
JESS WILLARD WHIPS
MORAN; HOLDS TITLE
Superiority in Weight, Reach
and Height Wins for
Kansas Cowbov.
DECISION ON POINTS
Champion Breaks Hand by
Heavy Jolts to Face in
Tame Battle.
Dispatches Indicate That the
Fleeing Mexicans Have
Split Up Forces.
BY H. I). .JACOBS
it mi"! I'rtss M iff Correspondent )
COLOMA DUIILAX, Mexico (via
radio from Columbus, X. M.,) March 2j.
I mtcd States troops engaged in an
encompassing moenujit with the Car
ranzfstas near Xamiijuipa today got
their first sight of the Villistas. There j Moran bored in frequently but was tin
was no lighting between the bandit "Me to land. It was announced after
and the United States forces, but the the fight that Willard broke his right
Carranzaistas had two skirmishes with 'hand in the third round.
ntlin. Ii Itlili' nnn.. .n t r. n 1 Tl .
UtUl'l LlllliM3, ivpuii llj Ul'Ill'Iill I(
shing s headquarters stated.
The pursuit today, continued in
snow -torm
IS United Press.
XEW YORK, March 2.".. Jess Wil
lard retained his world's champion
ship title tonight in a lifeless ten
ro'und bout with Frnk Moran.
Sheer superiority in weight, height
and reach won for the Kansas cowbov.
SECRETLY WED, FRESHMAN
INFORMED HE IS A FATHER
A high Echool romance, followed by -their intentions, but later told them of'
n ninrrJnfo Mtu i r-n...r.t " in .i I
" .--(-,. .ihivu ncpt i bixici to marriage.
for nearly vear. was made public in ' Last Sun wm,ts. f
Columbia jtsterday when it was learn- ,,,, a 4. ,
ed that Ljle G. Willits, freshman in!h'm "" the lmtance Pone and
the University of Missouri, had gone!t0ld lnm that ounS Mrs. Willits was
to his home in Kansas City, where a ! about to become a mother. "Willits left
babv bov had l.( en l.nrn tn hi uifo immediately for his home. Monday
formerly Miss Laura May White, also tIle bab "as born- wills is. in Kan- j SIMPSON
or Kansas City. v'"- ul i"K1' uui is expected
Fraternity brothers of Willits who to return here in a few das to resume
is a Phi icnnnn. Psi snlrf iwt.nhv ti.nt his work in the University.
JAYHAWKERS DEFEAT 4 AMERICANS KILLED,
MISSOURI IN RELAY. 2 HURT, IN SINKING
OP BRITISH IPS
With Even Start, Pittam.An
chor Man, Is Beaten
bv Rodkev.
A WINNER
the M. r. student and Miss White
became acquainted while they were
students in Manual High School, Kan
sas City The day after commence
ment last spring, they were married.
Willits is 21 j ears old and his wife
10.
They did not tell their parents of
He is a student in the College of
Arts and Science and a pre-medlc.
Mrs. Willits was in Columbia Thanks
giving to attend the Missouri-Kansas
football game with her husband,
but neither the closest friends of Wil
lits nor those of his wife even guess
ed that they were married.
Floyd Second in Pole Vault
All Tigers Below Their
Usual Marks.
i Steamers Sussex and English
man Victims of Torpedoes
or Mines in Last Twenty
Four Hours.
The bandits which the American
troop-, sighted were a small body, and
it is not known whether Villa himself
was among them. Reports to head
quarters gave their location as 120
milfs south by southeast of Duhlan.
Dispatches indicate that Villa has split
up Iiis forces.
(irele Drawn (loser About MII.i.
I!r I tied I'rt's
EL I'ASO, Te., March 23. Pancho
Villa seemed to be successfully hidden
from hi- pursuers, tonight after a ten
to General Per-i Kmiml l Tiwv elliulm! .li. -. m two
irl-'lils to tin ImmIj. Mor.in bored in, luit
iuliil Will in! int .1 rUht to the Jiw,
a i"rm niniii .1 ruui .11111 I Hit t" tile
ne.ni. i;onim tvm.
Kotinil 2- Will ml put a It ft to the h til
Mur-in ntlllit.il with the sum., .les,
suun.: lunl twite to tin- J w lie fnl
limed twice more to tile auie pl.uv. VV'll
I inl slimmed to the fiee .Vloriu suung
.1 riht to the fiee Wlll.inl hid a snide
Hound 3 Morui led with a left to the
-IoiiikIi. Will ml Miit right to the
-toiu ii h, ami Jlnr.m mvuii,: time lefts to
the J iw Ilollml itn.
Itomnl 4 Will ml hit to Menu's heiil
with a left .mil rlclit. Mi.r.in iuls-ed nitli
:i wIM -win,: Uillird smiled V 111 lnl's
rouml lij a slinU-.
Hound IV JIor.ui scored .1 Ih.ivv Mow
on the fare Willard j ilil.ed Mor.in. Wil
lard leil to the bod Wlliaril's round.
Ilouml i They exilim-red lioi Hint lit .
Will ml jilil.nl a lift to the J iw Moran
Me. dine. Will ml hit his injurul ee
tliriv turns WIIHnl's round
liouini uiiurii r until it II- to the
BURGLAR ANDGUARD LOCAL PROGRESSIVES
fIRE AT EACH OTHER, SEE A NEED FOR T, R
days chase. Numerous dctatchments , i id and i.oiit
f i i..i o.. i -. . '' Jiw. Moran
vi i iiiieu ouit's iuiu turiaii.a iiuuis j, ft j(l t jl4.
.les- tnt an uiiiieriui to
irro-vv Willard sent a
1 iw. Monti IH,k .i f, rrlhi
are encircling Santa Clara and the '" "",''-' l,1It iishni -anuiy. wniard's
1 rouml
San Miguel region where the bandit Kouml wniini s,nt two left- to the
was last spen It n ct.nted hv Hen- lleml aIHl followed with two more to the
was lasi seen, u was .ateu uj uen- I1(1V. MoriM ,,!wiiIn. frwJy Je wut
eral Gavira at Juarez that Colonel another to the jaw Moran niiiin twite
to the lit.ul lamleil a riht to the jiw.
Jes- Miit an uppenut to the jiw. Willird's
.round
1 Uounil i' Aloriu rushed, lint WilHnl
lilotked anil sent two ood Jain to the
fue Will ml follout I Morui around tht
rin without I Hiding .Its- sent a lift
i to the tAi.-e. Monn sitinpin overhinil to
.the tar. Willird's round
I Kiiiiud in Monn rt ftisnl to slnkf
j Ii t tnl-. Jtss J.iIiIhiI Moriu's fiee three
times Morui put a left to the face, and
,.!ts- rt turned one to the jaw Will ml
followed with a rislit to the boil. Wil
lird's round Willard wins
Gadowd's regiment was pressing Vil
la's main force of a thousand
ers in the Santa Clara region.
President Attacks rrnp.c.MUilNt'..
I! I nitcd 1'rt s-
WASHI.NGTOX, March 23. Presi
dent Wilson tonight issued a formal
declaration that propaganda along the
bord' r is disseminating false reports
on the Mexican situation "to create
intolerable friction between the Gov-i
imh:kso. it.
i.
.EVTK, 0. KKVII
"ill
ernment of the United States and the Munlv Little I.ec srlnuil Athlete
de tat to government of Mexico for the lie Buried Tmlaj.
purpose of brincing about interven- nderson lluckner Xeate, years
tion ' i old. who until last Wednesday morn-
The Presidtnt charges that en-a- i ing was romping and plavuig with his
tional rumors "whollv unjustified by little brother- and .ohoolmates at the
facts are being dispatched in the in-'Lee School, is dad The end came
tensts of certain owners of Mexican j at the Parker Memorial Hopital at C
propertv." and add", "the people of th o'clock jesterday morninir, followins
United State- -hould know of the! an operation at roon the dav before.
s.jiiil to The MIs-ouriin.
J ST. LOU'S. March 2:. Kansas part
ly atoned for her defeat by Mi-ouri
1 in the dual meet and relay a week ago
when her relay team defeated the
, Tiger quartet tonight at the indoor
meet of the Missouri Athletic Associa
tion held at the Coliseum.
All the Tigers fell below their form-
jer marks in their performances to-
,nisht.
bimpson won the .",0-vard high
hurdles in 0:1 and Minton finished
third in the feuu-;ard run.
Flojd, competing for the M. A. A,
was forced to take second in the pole-
The would-be burglar who engaged "The events of current historv nrntn ' alllt' Kneurek of the Illinois Athletic
in a revolver duel early vesterday J the courage and foresight of the 4,-Club Won WItI' a Iea, of 12 feet c
morning m the Co-operative Store was 1 119,-07 voters in the United States inehcs-
still unUiown to the police at' a late who in 1912 cast their ballet.: in hlnr In tlie -Missouri-Kansas relay Eaton
hour last night. ;0f Theodore Roosevelt for PresinVnr ' lost on ,he f-rt quarter. Daggy and
Awakened from a sound sleep In a, and it is now apparent that the need!Watt ?ae piUam an een start with
brilliant flashlight shining in his face, J of our nation for his matchles- i ad- Uodke-v. but ,Ile Missouri man wasn't
H. P. ("Bud") Saunder-, an emplov - , ership will be even greater in 1910. To ' equal to hls racf of a week aso an(1
sleeninir in the store, rnised himcelf ' that end all tutors nnriiMn.i,n. , I lost by four jarus.
- c-i . - - ... ......w , , - vu 1IU1 HV.4'IUillK 111 ,
I '
THREE FROM U.S.
AMONG MISSING
Over Fifty Meet Death Out
right in Explosion or Are
Drowned in English Chan
nel Disaster.
H. P. Saunders, Student, En-I County Meeting Indorses
gages in Revolver Duel at j Candidacy and Re-affirms
Co-operative Store. Old Principles.
on his elbow and peered over the par- 'any Progressive mas meeting shall i
Joe Loomis of the Chicago Athletic
l!y 1'nittil Pre".
LOXDO.N". March 2.-.. Four Ameri
cans were killed, two seriously Injured
and more than fifty others narrowly
escaped death in the sinking of the
steamers Sussex and Englishman by
torpedoes or mines in the last twenty
four hqurs.
More than fifty persons were killed
outright by the explosion or drowned
in the Sussex disaster as she was
crossing the English channel to Bou
logne. One American, J. M. Baldwin, is
missing from the Sussex. Four were
killed on the Englishman.
straight ahead
Burglar Heads fur the safe.
The man seemed to have a certain
destination, supposedly to th -afe
which is kept in the po-to'fice sub
station in the west side of the store.
Saunders slipped hi- revolver from
under his pillow and crawled on his
hands and knres to the showcase in
the front of the stor.
"The store was completely oar;.- :it
sinister and unscrupulous influences
that are afoot."
o "ttv: iHtoir fok simi'xlv
f!ratiu- Mills M. S. I". Debate Itcganl
inc Ilormitorv's Kntertatnimr.
which had revealed an inflammation
of the appendix and an abscess on the
kidnevs.
I Anderson was in the fourth grade at
'school and was regarded as an e
'ceptionallv bright boy. On the play
i grounds he was one of the school's
Resting their case upon the ground niost promising 2'hletes. Baseball
that "it would impede the wholesome was his favorite sport. The distance
progress of civilization both from the he could throw a baseball was really
standpoint of theory and practice," wonderful for a boy of his age. Last
the negative won the debate: "Re- winter he plaved football with his
solved, that Sampson Hall should hold (friends each afternoon, using a ball
open house every Saturday night." I which lie had attained from the Tigers.
tition separating his room from the indorse the national platform of 1912 'Association s'1 " -new world's record
office. H 'aw a medium-sized man and acree to support the nominee fori!" he -J31"1! lash nen he finished
jump lightly from the window to the President of the Progressive National I"1 ',:1'
door of the ofiice. Convention at Chicago, June 7 l"lC"j Tl"or entrants were withdrawn from
Saunde.s said he could not mor. This is the gist of the "call" io "V f D , ,
for fear of lettinc the burglar know L mm, ti, t. ,,.. i. . , ..,. Ted Meredith ,the Pennsvlvania fl-
he was watchins. The visitor tiptoed responded in the county meeting at the j
to the front of the store, avoiding nmirihnntciiiHn..lltn n -n- !
rnsilt- flip mnnv clinwrntoe tltnt tniili x-t-j -er ., ... drew
. - -sa .Mcueiuieyer ouerea me resolution:
have been in his way if he walket'. -we want Theodore Roosevelt for
President and reafilrm'bur confidence
in the principles of the Progressive
platform of 1912" The resolution
was adopted unanimous.
C. W. Loomis was elected chairman
and Clinton Lvon secretary. The lat
ter carelcsslv. or ironical!, wrote
his minutes on stationer b'biiiu r.t
to the Democratic city administration.
On the motion of Mr. Niedermever.
five delegates were selected to attend
sas, "and I was afraid that I woulu the state convention at Kana- City on Then they both did a clog dance with
stumble and make a noise As soon as Aprils. Those selected were: C. W a lightness that denied the apparent
I cot back of the case I raised mv head Loomis, F. W. Niedermever. the Rev heaviness of the wooden shoes.
and then the man saw me and shot, J. G. Burgin, Prof. Max Me.ver and An Italian street band, with the , Wltor.
I ducked m.v head and f red at the flash R T. Algeo Their dutv- at the state ' inseparable monkey. plaed to a house
Professor ami Famil .Missing.
I!y United Press.
PARIS. March 23. Three Ameri
cans, Prof. J. M. Baldwin, his wife
and daughter Elizabeth, are not among
the party of American survivors of
er, was civen a clear field in the -Howard
run when all other entrants with-
3f. V. M(.ME. 110 KEIL TURNS
Vaudeville slum Brimrs Out Dames,
I .snugs and Pictures,
Some of the vaudeville stunts in
troduced b the Wpmen's Athletic As
sociation last night would have done
credit to professionals. Miss Hazel
Georce told a story about Holland to
the Sussex distaster arriving at Paris
tonight. Dispatches received here be
fore the arrival said that Elizabeth
w as in a hospital in Boulogne suffering
trom a broken leg. The father and
mother may have remained at Bou
logne with Elizabeth.
Vessel Inpedned, Washington Hears.
M luited Press
WASHINGTON, March 2.-.. Consul
ar reports on the explosion of the
channel steamer Sussex tonight bore
the tune of "Where Is Mv Little Black UJL i,a""!' lnat "le ssel ws tor
Dog?" Miss Elizabeth Stockton drew-! P"loed. according to State Department
Dutch sketches to illustrate her storv. messages from Ambassador Sharp at
Paris.
MKIIK'S- IKAt'H A I' OPK IIOl'sF.
Future
.se 'llu'iiisches as
Doctors see 'Km.
of light ahead. The m?n then turned ' convention will be to help elect dele- ' party. Later the house part was join- j It was a curious fair which the stu
and dashed out of the front door, gates and alternates to the national ed by a group of girls dressed in j dent- of the School of Medicine of ffer
which he had had the foresight to un- convention at Chicago. The dele- sweaters and overalls, and an imita- ed their frinds vesterday morning at
bolt and open. I hurried to the door, I gates to the national convention will tion of the M men's initiation was given I their "open house" at the Medical
The debate was held at the Y. M. C. A.
Auditorium last night by the M. S. U.
Debating Club.
Both sides quoted from the Bible;
the affirmative read other literature
freel and reqited poetry, while the
negative declared such an ''open door"
policv was unconstitutional.
Miss Beulah Stanton of Sampson
Hall acted as a judge. The affirma
tive accused the negative of prejudic
ing the officials by addressing them as
"Dear judges."
The speakers were: Affirmative, W.
C Martin and F. E Henzlik: necative.
J S Tones and B G Kline. This was
th third annual humorous debate held
bv the M S U Club.
MI.Fs-im USHESTED AT ATHENS
0uTsitiinr Without License. Shoe Man
Han Is Fined 2." and Costs.
He was born at Paris, Mo, October
3, 1S0G.
The funeral will be held at the home
of his parents, Mr. and Mrs. A. F.
I Xeate. 707 Mar land place, al 2'.!0
.o'clock this afternoon. The Rev. T
W. Young, pastor of the First Baptist
Church, will conduct the services
Besides his parents, two brothers.
Sidney, B , S, and William B,. 3, sur
vive. Mr. and Mrs. A. S. Houston. Mr. and
Mrs. C. R. Gibbs, Mexico; A. D. Buck
ner and Miss Emma Buckner, Paris;
and C. M. Buckner. Marshall, relatives
of Mrs. Xeate, arrivea vesterday to
attend the funeral.
The pallbearers will be: C. B. Miller.
W. E. Smith, E. I. Goetz, Dr. K. -M.
Burgess. Lee Walker and Aubrey
C. Bush.
but the fellow was gone."
Where the Bullets Traveled.
The bullet fired by the burglar pass
ed a few inches over Saunders' head
and lodged in a volume of "Grimm's
Fairy Tales," which was on a shelf
behind him. The bullet fired by Saun
ders passed through an advertisement
bearing the inscription. "Whv I Rais
ed My Boy to Be a Soldier." tore off a
piece of the lattice which separates the
postoffice sub-station from the store
and lodged in the plaster wall, making
a hole as big as a dollar.
James B,
fished in a water bucket, and one de
livered an oration that was unusual
in that it was silent.
Miss Kathrn King read the tragedy
be apportioned on a basis of two for i The usual number scoured steps and 'Building. Visitors saw themselves as
each county, with one additionalJcle
gatefor each 2J0 votes, or majo-lrac-tion
thereof cast for Roosevelt in 1912,
Following the election of delegates
the present county central committee iof Floraoelle and Percival while the
was re-elected. ! lovers acted it. At the end of the trag-
edy the aunt came in, found the lovers
MO.NT INCLUDE COLLEGE GIRLS and the " illalri dead, and failing to re-
I store them with washing powder, died
medics" see them.
Demonstrations, under michoscope
and by drawing, of the following sub
jects were carefully explained by at
tendants: anatomy, histology, neu
rology, embrology, physiology, path
ology, bactteriology and phsioiogical
chemistry, a developmental study of
the embryo of the chick and a lecture
from models explained the pre-natal
growth of the human.
An uncooked meal in amounts nee-
Ad Club Queen to He Elected From with them
t'niHTsity .Students. The going away chorus, sung by
The Ad Club Queen will be elected girls with black and white suits, black
from the Universitj women this year umbrellas and black and white hat 'essary for one person for one day was
the same as last vear. Though a motion , boxes une nnrtipiiiarK- entertaining I laid out on a table. It consisted of:
Hon at, who sleeps with ' was entertained to the effect that the 'when it n.ime tn mnsie' the TofmrWnl three ounces of lean meat, one loaf of
Saunders, said that he knew nothing j KJrs fomStephens and Christian 0I- 'family sextet also demonstrated that 'bread, six medium-sized potatoes, one
of the incident until the first shot legesbeeligible.aIso.it was decided not ' it could sing. The "Bubble Song" 'p'nt of milk, one and one-half ounces
was fired. "Being awakened from a to adopt the change because officials of I was sung with red. green and vellow.of butter and two ounces of sugar.
sounu siep in un- c i.ours OI me the two colleges did not deem it adv is- ' balloons for bubbles
morning bv a snot that sounded as auie to allow the college uirls to he
l
An original stunt was put on by a
group of girls and pyramid ladder.
Miss Edith Caveriy did a rainbow
dance, and girls dressed as sailors
so scared I could not move at once. ( Pians for tIle enrnival. April 14, are
Then the second shot rang out. I now well under way. The stunt com-
jumpea out. oi ueu ana met s,aunaerS) , mittee met vesterday afternoon and it 'danced the horn nine. M W.
coming back. He had to tell me j was reported that many of the stunts j
about the whole affair I saw noth-mould be in the nature of a surprise. GI.NGHVM G0W.S IX STILE HERE
ing."
"SL0f! WEEK" IX rOLI'.MHIV
'vV l. Colby, representing the Swope
Leland Denton HI With Pneumonia.
T nlnn nnntnn snn nf T C Denton.
Shoe Company of St. Louis, was ar- ' ' i, rifti, street, is seriously ill
rested Friday evening at the Athens )u.th pneumonla. anu recovery is
Hotel, charged with taking orders for i donbtful Mrg Denton who was ta
future d livery in Columbia without a tWin(sor on account of thA UIness 0f
license He had operated all day at. , .. .,j i,mo vp.
- ner aauKiuei. was taum ,..... .--
the hotel. He was fined $2." and costs
which he willingly paid and then i
phoned his house for orders. t
terday morning.
Appreciates Burglar's High im.
Saunders vesterdav joked with his
friends about the shooting. "A high
aim certainly did save my life." he
said. "If that fellow had aimed a lit
tle lower. I believe I would have been
Many Enter MNsourlan's Contest An-
I other Prize Offered.
This is "slogan week" in Columbia.
j Friday the Missourian had a page
'advertisement offering a prize of $5
I to the fir-t persons who turned In a
CIVIC LEAGUE SVLE GETS ?I3
Visitors Come In Overalls to Christian 'correct list of the forty-eight firms
I College Hani warm III l'. whose slogans or trade-marks were
Women's Vnniial OiTerine of Eatables, Christian College girls in gingham ,Ben on the page,
f Snpporfs the Organization. J aprons. University men in overalls, the ' One answer was in the Missourian
t The Women's Civic League of Co-(college gymnasium decorated as a office within three hours after the pa-
lumhia held its annual sale of home . barn and nlentv of good dance music, per had left the press. Others came
I
jrnnlPr1 nrni?itrtc Tocrorl-iv nt TTnrTln. 1 ,,, ,!(-. x nni nMn 'f .. In fnct nil flnt- nctnrlii- "EY tlma
a good exhibit for the 'medics' at their n,:;: .;,.,;, I .,, L I "-""h-.u, ""'-' ' i-'" '" "" "' - ' '.:. ' . ""7
; a ' in Rrothers leat Market. All the pro- , were the features of the Christian Col- i there was a waiting line to read the
tiT"-; TooT of"MedicinYS "hours dUCtS W"e dona,eti b? the '"omen of lege annual barnwarming given by the I.Missourian's files yesterday "morning
the sciooi . . - 'Columbia. The receipts were J43. i juniors for the seniors last night. The to find certain slogans that were not
after the shooting he was showing vis- f .,wm i.. . ,.., tn n in n.u
,. ,,....,, i -.---,- kwuu.u vi Mu nsiu " i ; uiiiiiMuiii v i uruui aiu m mi " ..- -.. .-.. uu uvttx. &r
UUIB llilUUmi liif .UIU1V.UI uttifUiMfe.
"Little money is Kept in me saie, ibers There are no dues, and the nnlv
said Alfonso Johnson, manager of the source of revenue with which to con-
tne , riiipt rlvl Imnrnwmfliif to rtorit-orl
by the free-will offerings of its mem- green and white, blended colors of the I In many of Columbia's stores slo-
Want a Game. Call 101(1 Green.
The first challenge to boarding
house baseball teams comes from the
students who board at 722 Missouri
avenue They issue a challenge to any
boarding house team in the city. Any
one wishing a game call H. C. Doolin,
1010 Green.
ttm-
colder ex-
THE WEATHER
(Krnort Infl Satnrdav Moraine)
r.,r ri.imnlil.1 nml Vicinltv: s.n,i15-
senenllr filr and cold. Freezln
For xil-ourI: Sunday fair,
treme e.it portion.
VV rather Condition.
Colder we-itlier l Imlicatetl for Colnm-
Mi durlnc tlie next tblrtv-ix lionr. with
f.iir kles durinc the latter part of the
period, and probably warmer again on
Monday.
store. The money Is taken to
bank every afternoon. The safe is
used to keep the stamps."
Students hearing of the shooting
continued to come in to view the scene
all day yesterday. Both bullets and
the book are on exhibit and Saund
ers says that he is tired relating the
incident to his friends who come in
to get first-hand information.
duct
from these annual sales.
Dentists Back From Convention.
Dr. C. W. Digges and Dr. H. I.
Bragg returned yesterday from Kan
sas City, where they attended the Tri
State Dental Convention. Doctor
Digges was re-elected a member of the
executive committee.
two classes. Bales of hay were scat- Fan calls were as frequent as tele
tered over the room, and the rafters I phone calls for groceries, meats, hard
were decorated in Texas moss. About i w-are or other merchandise.
200 men were visitors.
Here to Audit University Books.
A. E. Kemper and E. X. DeGroff,
members of the state auditor's staff,
came Friday to audit the books of the
University. The state law requires
that the books be audited at least
every two years.
The page of slogans will be repeated
in tomorrow's paper and again Wed
nesday. All answers must be In be
fore noon of March 31. The interest
in the idea has been so great the Mis
sourian will give a second prize, $2.50.
Contestants should give the correct
name of the firm, with its location
and the line of merchandise handled.
