- - ' V '
DAILY EDITION
VOL. VI., No. 160.
VjIlANTS PASS. JOSEPHINE COUNTY, OREGON. BUXDAV, MARCH SO, 1910
WHOLE XOIBEB 170V
(1
No Other Town in the World the Size of Grants Pass Has a Paper With Full Leased Wi re Telegraph Service.
(I,-
TO VILLA
Human Quarry of American
Troops Escaped from Trap
Set, But Is Now Hard Pres
sed, Reports Gen. Gavira
El Paso, Mar. 25. -Francisco
Villa's main force ot 300 men Is in
Santa Clara canyon, 80 mllea from
Its western entrance, with Colonel
Coorge Dodd's cavalry close uion
him. General Oavira assorted In a
statement to the United Treat today.
Villa la nearly aurrounded, Gavir.
declared. Hla only avenue of escape
la through the eastern entrance to
the canyon. But Carrantlstaa at
Lsguna and nearer the eastern mouth
might cut him off.- The canyon la
nearly 200 miles long. Carransista
and American co-operation forced
Villa's present plight, Oavlra said.
He declared reporta of friction be
tween Mexicans and. Americans ori
ginated In the United States.
- Arrivals from Chihuahua City re
ported General Luis Herrera was attll
loyal, and was In Chihuahua with his
troops.
-. Military anpnts are tracing muni
tions shipments to Juarez, In order
to prevent Villa from obtaining them.
El Paso. Mar. '2B.Fr.ncl.eo Villa "Uof h,p. wh,ch w, be 8ent ,n
la believed to have escaped the Amorl- pn,n LkmSlr Ernest Shackel-ean-Carraoilsta
trap laid for him ton. British Antarctic explorer, whose
near Namlqulpa. With a great mini- fte 'n JUW in the light of recent
ber of his followers he is thought to developments. Although it was re
have reached the San Miguel country, ported Sydney, N. S. W., that
Military mon expressed this con- Shackelton had aucceeded In crossing
vlctlon today .when reports of a de-,the Antarctic continent with his expe
nsive battle with him failed to ma- d'tion. garbled wireless message
terlalUe. throwing doubt on the story was re
in absence of word to the contrary, lved ,Btr frm the ltHBH Aurora,
It is believed the American expedl- M been sent to bring him
tlon lost Villa's trail. The bandit hack. The radio dispatch said the
hlef was last repbrted at Namlqulpa had hrn damaged and was
a week ago. The American expedl; returning to New Zealand for re
tlon did not reach there until Thnrs- Plrs. It failed to mention Shackel
day or Friday. 4 ' .ton or his men. . ...
Consul Garcia had no further word ! '' 8hkeUon's friends here today
today with regard to the situational Wf the New Zealanders to try and
telOso,' where Villa was reported ' wireless communlca Ion wrlth
hacked'up in a canyon Wwcen Nam- the Aurora again,, Udy Bhackc ton
iqulpaand Santa Clara. Hghtlng' for her friends are confident that
hi. life.' Villlsta." have' cut "all tele- Vrty will return a vs. They be
"graph wires south of Caaas OrandW Shackelton ha. either abandon
It is'apparent that Villa ha. .cat- n, i0 louth
tered his forces. A small number
la perhaps surrounded la .the Nam
loulpa district from which come per
Ulntnnf r&nnrtl nf h AmArlmn Bxnfl
Sutton enveloping, the bandit..' An-
other group probably , set fir-'" to.
W a .mill town wh ch 'the United
States troops' found burned.
Vllliatas are believe 'to have been
connected with the wreck" of an,
American troop .train south of Casaa,
Grandee. The enirlne and ' several
car. turnSd1' v'er ' near '.CuinfireiT
.There were no fatalities, but a num
ber of cavalry horses were so badly
,lurt they had to . be killed. .. The
column marohed overland for the re
mainder ot the Journey. ' .'
DIRD MAII BRIH6S :.
HEWS ' FROM PUT
Columbus, N. "'to.,' Mar. 25. Nar
, rowly escaping deaith In a 166-mile
lilght from Aniorloan headquarter. In
Mexico, Lieut. Dargue arrived ( here
today with dispatches from General
, Pershing and newspaper correspond
ent, at the front. He made the flight
In two and one-half hours, Over e
: mountain pass a wind whirled htm to
within 50. feet of the ground. Ho
nld U was very cold at the Tront.
Ill
TT DEATH BY
1,1
T
Idaho Falls, Idaho, Mar. 25. Wil
bur Breckinridge was shot and killed
late last night by two masked ban
dits who held up the bunkhbuse of
the Now Sweden Irrigation company's
ranch. The robbers, holding tied four
of the ranch bands, rifled tholr pos
sessions. Then they Jollied tholr
helpless victims, compelling them to
walk on tholr hands and knoes for
their amusement
Pan Evans, one of the bunkhouse
Inmates, offered resistance. One of
(the robbers struck blm over the head
I with a 45 caliber revolver, breaking
.the barrel off the gun. Evans re
ceived a severe scalp wound.
I Leaving the bunkhouse, the rob
bers met Breckinridge. When be ac
costed them, they shot blm through
.the head several times. Not until
one o'clock this morning was George
Jackson, one of the ranch employes,
able to release himself and give warn
ing. He untied the hands and feet
of his companions Evans, Billy Hay
i wood and Frank Voting. It is believed
the robhers escaped on a train leav
ing here at 1:50 a. m. The police
and sheriff's office have notified of
ficers in surrounding cities. ' '
SEIID RELIEF TO
HUJ1T EXPLORER
London. 'Mar. 25. Hasty arrange
mentsVere made today to outfit a
can side and is returning to Buenos
Aires, or that he is already safely
over the South, Pole and will soon
!n, CPta'n Mcintosh at Cape
The rst message received
ta"B oKon was
safe, were garbled.
NRRAn
I VILLA'S ARMY
Mexico City. ; Mar. 25 Reports
of TarranMUHKrtnJ -ono "orer.to
Francisco Villa "wer'i tfMclanotiled
today At Queretsro, the temporary
Mexican capital.' '".i ' - IP
Oeneral Obregon admitted that
trouble might develop through con
tinued presence of American troops'
in Mexico. He .aid the de facto
government's enemies on both aides
of the border .were trying to force
Intervention and that he hoped Villa
would be speedly captured, so the
United States soldiers could1 leave
the country. ,
Tho western Chihuahua Carransls
tas who were reported to have en
gaged ViUii In battle were being rein
forced today, 7' ' . . 1
Arthur Edgertonjjipcnt Saturday at
Ashland on business. ' ; .
1
Oil
IPS SINK LfflU FAILS
IN NORTH
SEA DUEL
Announcement Just Comes of
tie Battle Between German
Raider Greif and British
JaVotecled Cruiser cantani
London, Mar. 25 Battling In the
North Ma Feb. 29, the German com
merce raider Greif and the British
armed " merchant cruiser Alcantara
were both " so badly damaged that
they aank, the admiralty announced
today. "
The Greif was an unprotected
cruiser of 2,028 tons. She carried a
crew of 180.
The Alcantara was probably a crack
four-deck steamer of tbo Royal Mall
line, 15,300 tons.
The Orelf. according to the admlr-
Iftlttf. flflV 4tlA VnMTAstlll Hmn .nil
planned to repeat exploits of the Ger
man commerce raider Moewe.
When the ships came together can
non fire sank' the German. As she
went down she launched a torpedo
which struck the Alcantara amidships . A crowd or fourteen thousand wlt
and sent her to the bottom. It is be- nessed the fight. ' It Included New
lleved 180 of the Grelf's crew perish- York's; elect : society, ; which rubbed
ed. . Five officers and 118 men were elbow, -with fight fans from the East
made prisoners. The Alcantara lost' s'dc. ; .
five officers and 69 men.' ( Moran bled profusely In sixth and
According to admiralty accounts, ;seventh rounds. , Wlllard escaped
the Greif slipped out from Kiel canal
disguised as a Norwegian tramp. The
Alcantara, nntrnlllnr In tho Vnrth
sea. met and hailed her. ,ner8 w0rkln8 like 'mad amid scenes
When asked to identify his vessel, reminiscent of old time ee battles,
the commander of the German raider With several holes below the water
replied with a fictitious name, arous- Mjne, the German began sinking slow
ing the suspicions of British officers ly As she plunged to the bottom, a
on the Alvantara. They launched a
boatload of armed sailors to board!
the raider and examine her papers.
Suddenly, as the small boat ap-'
proached, guns were unmasked on the
Greif and a German flag was run up,
British and Teuton gunners fired sim
ultaneously. ' , ' 1
Struck In several places, the raider
continued fighting, and for ten min-
tries the two vessels rained' shells on
each 1 other- at close quarters, : gun-'
Boulogne, via Paris, 1 Mar. " 25
Two Americans are missing and it
is estimated 60 may tie dead today as
the result of an explosion which dam
aged the British steamer Sussex as
she was crossing the English' channel.
Three Americana "aboard "declared
they saw a torpedo , coming toward
the Sussex just before the' explosion;
'-.There were at least 12 Americans
on the vessel, including myoelf. The
missing 'United1 "States citizens are
Elisabeth Baldwin."' and her father1
of' Philadelphia. " Others' endangered
were, W. O. Tenfleld', 'in American'
studeutlat Oxtord nnlversityV Edward
tfuxley, president of " the '' bolted
Btatei Robber company t 'Francis E."
Btakei 'head of that ' vorporation's
Enrdpean ' brahch,'- and ' Miss ' Alice
Rues; .. "t;- ' W ,
Although' the ' explosion damaged
the Sussex so that passengers had to
abandon her,' the1 steamer arrived at
Boulogne today under her own steam.
1 There were 880 passengers aboard
when we sailed from Folkestone yes
terday noon. Excellent weather was
encountered. Near the French port
of Dieppe the' ternlfto explosion oc
curred. I was conversing with sov
eral Americans about 4:30 p. m.,
when the blast shook the Sussex from
bow to Btern.' One empty life boat
Iflll
Cbanpion Heavyweight Pug-
ilist Retains His Title ia
Ten Ross i Battle Staged in
New Ycrk City Last Night
New York, Mar. 25. Jen Wlllard
retained; the .world's championship
tlUe tonight i lifeless ten-round
bout with Frank Moran. - . Sheer
superiority, reach and weight won.
Moran hored in frequently, but was
unable to damage the champion, who
smiled throughout the fight
Wlllard announced he had broken
the knuckles ot his. right hand In
the second round and continued
fighting with one hand.
In the seventh round "Wlllard made
the only 'spurt. Seemed going after
a knockout. Before the round was
over Moran rallied. At least a dosen
times Wlllard had an easy chance for
a knockout punch, but -did not take
dT'ntage ot U- ; ,
without a scratch.
torpedo was launched from one of a
number of . torpedo tubes visible on
her deck.' The torpedo ripped such
in the British warship's sides
ithot it disappeared under the waves
wlthln IS minutes.
"The Greif carried 800 men, al
though in normal times her crew only
numbered 180., .Prisoners explained
that she had been double-manned, so
prize crews could he placed aboard
captured enemy steamer.. 1
was splintered and a huge fountain
ot water spouted over the side. Many
passengers standing at the, rail .were
engulfed in this . wave and hurled
violently into the sea. H was among
them, that moat of the casualties occurred.-.'-
.,...,."'!:..,;,'.'..,.',.
Life boat, were launched imme
diately, but 1 learned that several peN"
sons struggling near the rail were
not i picked i up. i , !1; V f
Just after the explosion the 8us
sex listed sharply and it was feared
she would sink.' .Passengers were
panlo stricken. ' Women and children
rushed shrieking about the decks.
OffVeera-flnally quieted them, and the
panto subsided when the veeeel right
ed Itself.-' -.' 'Wt , m. el t .
' Survivors remained aboard until
11 p. m., when most ot them were
taken oft by the Maria Threesa .and
landed at Boulogne early today. It
Is believed the estimate of '50 dead
may be exaggerated, as there is a
chance of some passengers having
been picked up by other ships.
The explosion occurred in the for
ward part of. the ship, wounding
many. It shattered the wireless
house, so there was no chance ot call
ing for hlp by radio. Four hours
the Sussex drifted in the channel,
vainly signaling for aid. The wound-
(Continued on Page Six.)
GEWJAH SHELLS
SET FIRES IH THE
CITY OF VERDUII
Berlin, Mar. 25. German artillery
has set fire to Verdun, It was official
ly announced today. There were no
Important changes on the western
front during the night '
Berlin, Mar. 25. Return of crisp
spring weather to Verdun signals the
renewal of heavy Infantry . fighting
there, which la expected to slowly
squeete out the French from the
Malancourt-Betblucourt salient The
recent lull was due to fog and rain.
which hindered artillery. Now the
weather is so line that German sol
diers from their, newly-gained posi
tions on the Meuse west bank can
look down on" Verdun's glistening
spire..'.; ; !'" - r''-'
Shell, from German 42 centimeter
guns have greatly damaged forts on
the eastern and northeastern aide, of
the city.
Neither Russian attack, nor allied
reports of heavy German losses at
Verdun have shaken German confi
dence In the success of their smash
against the strong fortress. .Reports
of 200,000 Teutons, lost at Verdun
are deemed absurd here. '
, The disorganized Russian offen
sive convinced German critics, that
the czar was not ready when General
Joffre asked him to aid.
HEW DEATH OEALHIG
' ; By Win, G. Shepherd.
Paris, Man 25 Equipped with a
new. nornDiy destructive device, a
great fleet of Zeppelins , will accom
pany the German navy when it dashes
out to meet the. British, according
to stories told by Swiss boatmen on
Lake Constance. They obtained their
.Information, they said from residents
of FriedrlcbBhafen where the great
Zeppelin works, are located. 'They
have watched German sky cruisers
experiment. with: the new, death mis
sile.:.; .,..,, :':;, .-
-J Suspended from the gondola ot the
Zeppelln:ls a, wire more than ,vo
miles long. ; At the: end of) the v wire
dangles- a oluster of , .hornbs, ', filled
with ' high Haxploelves. (. h ;f v ?.''.!
Scouting ahead of the , fleet. at a
great height, the. Zeppelin, boatman
say, will i drop Its explosive; halt to
the water and ,drag It an a high rate
of speed.
M When the bomb cluster strikes the
8ide ;.ofn enemy v warship,, the .Zep
pelin, commander, two; miles j above
the water will touch an electric, but
toniiSettlng ptt.the pharge. t...
i The. bomb -dragging teat, it is said
has Vbeen; practiced , several, tlm.es In
the past fortnight by (pew Zeppelin
that apparently maintained a speed:
of 100 miles an hour. -i
Washington, Mar, 25 Four Amer
icans are believed to have perished In
itheitprpedpin of Ihe.ppmlnlon liner
Englishman, according to a cable
gram to the state department today
fromt American Consul -Armstrong, at
Bristol, England. Thirty-three survi
vors were landed at a British port '
Armstrong ' did not mention the
time or place of the attack. o '
' The Americans aboard the English
man, not reported saved were Peter
MoDougal, horse foreman, Boston;
P, Buckley and M. A. Burke, horse
men, addresses unknown, and George
MoDougal, trimmer, ot Lawrence,
Mass.'
The dispatches from Consul Arm-
(Continued on Page Six.) . ;
GERMAN
nn inirrnnn re
nr ir it I-1 ii in .
wLfiirhiniiiO; i nor
Jilfiii!
APRIL 10
Gnd Jcry WillBeCcayend
Apnl 3rd, ad Ctrtxlt Cral
WHIl!eetcaKc:iay;A:ril
ICaS,- fcr r Rcgdar Tera
liU .1'
The jury list for the term of the '
circuit court to convene Monday,
April 10, has been drawn, and con
sists of the following jurors:
G. H. Kesterson, Grants Pass, mill
owner. ." v
J. C. Calhoun, Grants Pass, tanner.
WUlard Hadlock, grants Pass,
farmer. ., -..." . ,
.Oscar, Grim, Hugo, farmer.
J. , P. Anderson, Placer, miner.
H." H. Gibbs, Kerby, farmer.
M. M. Ainswbrth, Murphyi farmer.
L. M. Graham, Grants Pass, Route
1, farmer. ... .-. - . .
E. A. Rathbone, Grants Pass, Routs
farmer.
H. A- Johnson, 'Williams, farmer.
Andrew Gigler, Grant. Pass,
farmer. ' ' -
Harry Mills, Grants Pass, miner. .
E. R. Crouch, Grants Pass, miner.
Frank W.AUenl Grants Psss, Route
2, farmer. ' ...
H. A. Dillingham, Grants' Pass,
retired. ' '' ;
Ed Jordan, Wolt Creek, farmer.
Albert Anderson,, Grants Pass, con
tractor. .' ; '.''..
. . W. Turvey, Williams, farmer.
F. C. Farwell, Three Pines, farmer.
F. E. Barrett, Kerby, farmer.
G. T. McCormick, Hugo, hotel
keeper.,,. , ... , v. ...
Walter Evenson, Grants Pass,
laundryman.
Louie R. Loesch, Murphy, farmer.
A. R. Marsh, Grants Pass, farmer.
S..J. Taylor, Grants Pass, car
penter. H. M. Gorham, Grants Pass, Route
1, farmer. ':,
t H. J. Bacher, Grants Pass, painter.
: ; H J.. Schmltt, Selma, farmer. .
, C. H. McCann Wildervllle, farmer.
V W." V5. DeArmond, ' Grants Pass,
Route iV farmer. " ' ' ' ; v
Geo. A. V Bardon, - Grants Pass,
farmer., ' rt ' :
. From the above list seven men will
be selected to serve as the grand jury,
and from the balance the trial juries
will he chosen." : The old grand jury
will meet on Monday, April 3, and
during the week, will transact such
business as may come .before It, go
ing.toutyof office wjth the4 coming in
or tne new jury, inere are noi
many oases on the docket to take the
attention of either grand jury or the
circuit court at.the April sesatpn.,The
one, importancaae is that of .M. D.
Bousman.lr.whq klJledMr. and
Mrs. Akers at Wildervllle. Bousman
Is now held In the count? lall. and
has Indicated his intention of plead
ing guilty to. the charge, that .will be
placed,, against, him. Hq spendahls
days , in. jai vln a , morose condition,
seemingly oniy awaiting tne iormai
action that will send him id the peni
tentiary at Salem for the rest' of his
days;'. S-.i in' .."-Mi:- -i ,'vv7-'.',
CALIFORNIA RAXCUKR .
.f ' ,-:, .V.kBATTLES WITH BULL
: iltcirrn '!'.". v. '
.,, San Bernardino, Cel., Mar. 25.
With only a shovel as his weapon of
defense, Jack Flynn, manager of the
South Mountain ranch at Glen Oak,
fought oft an. infuriated hull for half
an hour .today, ;. In, the oombat Flynn
received Injuries from which he may
die.'
Flynn was attacked as he was mak
ing his way across the stock corral.
He fought back the animal until
ranch, hands, attracted by his calls,
aame) to. the,, rescue with guns. ,, The
buU.was filled, and Flynn was rush-
'ed.to the Ramona hospital' here.
