inu
F F a
iff t
t-m-
ll
VOL. LVII.,-N0. 14V
POPULATION 2319
NORWICH, CCHM., TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 1916
14 PAGES 98 COLUMNS
PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Deubis TYof Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulati on is the Largest in Connactfcut in Proportion to the City's Population.
ill mm
1771
mill
M EASTEM
mm
From the Gulf of Riga to Bukowina, a Distance of Be
tween 600 and 700 Miles
GERMANS TAKE OFFENSIVE AGAINST RUSSIANS
On All Sectors of the Northern Line the Russians Have With
stood the German Onslaughts and Driven the Attacking
Forces Back In die Region of Lutsk Fresh Advances
Against the Austro-Hungarians are Reported by the Rus
sian War Office Muscovites Continue to Penetrate
East Galicia Germans Fail in Attacks in Verdun Battle
Cabled Paragraphs
Lunched at Royal Palaoe in Madrid.
Paris, June 12. 7.01 P. m. The Ger
man ambassadorship to Spain took
luncheon today at the royal palace in
Madrid, according to a despatch to
the Havos Agency irom Maori d.
More TrOOpS fOr 754- Delegates Condensedjelegrams
-I v .. J Fifteen thousand man and wow
Mexican Border
unpledged
riTioen tnouaand man and women
marched (or preparedness at Wilmington
FAR FROM AGREEMENT
ON RAILWAY WAGE QUESTION
COAST ARTILLERYMEN AND EN
GINEER TROOP
OF THE 1,092 DELEGATES TO DEM
OCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION
forty thousand persons of Rochest
er, marched in the city's preparedness
parade.
Hughes Enters s
With Zest
Fray
ESTABLISHED HEADQUARTERS lit-
A NEW YORK HOTEL
Detailed Explanation to be Given by
Railroad Managers Today.
sign Positions '
New York, June . 12. Representa
tives of the chief railroads of the
United States and unions of railway
employes were far from an agreement I Artillery Troops Will
on questions 01 wages ana nours 01
work when an adjournment of their
conference was taken late today. Up
on the detailed explanation tomorrow
by the railroads of their counter or
"contingent" proposition, it was pre
dicted by A. B. Garretson, president
of -the Order of Railroad Conductors,
would depend the future attitude of
the railroad men, even to the point
of ordering a strike vote among the
360,000 members of the unions.
. Garretson's prediction was prompt
ed by the fact that during the day the
conference suddenly was halted when
the railroads' 'V;ontingent" proposi
tion, tentatively granting the de
manded eight hour day, but refusing
double compensation for double ser
vice, was rejected.
Mr. Garretson and the other broth
erhood leaders stated that if the con
ference breaks up tomorrow they will
report back to the men and a vote on
the general strike will- be taken. Then
they will return to the railroads and
IN ALL ABOUT 1,400 MEN 168 KNOWN FOR WILSON
be Assembled I There is No Doubt, However, of the
From Numerous Posts Along the At- Votes for President Wilson Cre
lantic Coast Gen. Funston Will As- dentials of 12 Had Not Been Re
ceived Yesterday.
"Washington, June 12. Secretary I St Louis, June 12.-5even hundred
Baker announced late today that one I and flfty-four of the 1,092 delegates to
thousand additional coast - artillery
men and a battalion of engineer troops
from this city had been ordered to the
Mexican border for- patrol duty. In
all about 1.400 men will be. added to
General Funston's command. .
-Rome Renorts That the Italians are Drivinc the Auk. I renew their demands. If they are re
I . U .1 1. 11 1-1 1 V (-, 11. 1 UL 1 1 -1 1 11 111 LJ I. 1.1111' 11.
trians Back tO the South and Southeast of Trent A managers and o Feonference. "ad
mitted tonight that the situation was
serious but was hopeful for the es
tablishment of a middle ground that
would permit the continuation of the
conference.
To Strengthen Border Guard. '
Secretary Baker said the additional
forces had been ordered to the bor
der to strengthen the guard along the
American side of the line. The move
ment, he added, was not the result of
any new advices to the state depart
ment as to disturbed conditions In
Mexico. ..
Artillery Troops From Atlantic Coast.
The artillery troops will be
the democratic national convention, of
more than two thirds necessary for
nomination, come either uninstructed
or unpledged, according .to an official
compilation Issued today. There is no
doubt, however, of the votes for Pres
ident "Wilson. . i
' Th'ose Pledged For Wilson.
Of the delegates who come Instruct
ed or pledged 168, representing nine
states, are for the renomihation of
President Wilson; 28 representing
Arizona, Connecticut and Montana are
pledged to Wilson and Marshall; 28
representing Iowa are pledged to
The Central Federated Union went
on record as opposing the Stiver Com
pulsory Aiuitary Service Law.
Thomas A. Reid. a Sinn Sinn nrlnan. I
IVr&ZtnSgl "LotMtxial SCORES VISIT HIS ROOMS
u -n .
Frank Harrington, who confessed to
murdering Billy Clark, 8, near Albany
last March, was committed to Mattea-
wan
Health Department inspectors de
stroyed 496 bottles of comae and oth-
er liquors seized from Raftaele Casone,
ofr Brooklyn.
Mrs. Mary Martin, mother of Rev.
Dr. William- B. Martin, first assistant
at St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York Is
aeaa at ner home.
Will Not Issue Statement Until Heit
Formally Notified of His Nomina
tion Details of Campaign Ars Un
settled.
American scout patrols with Brig.
Gen. Pershing's army In New Mexico
have been threatened with an attack
by Carranza troops.
New York, June 12. Charles El -Hughes
re-entered politics today, ap
parently with - abundant - zest. He
reched the city early in the day, estab
lished . temporary headquarters at on
uptown liotel, and virtually held open
house- until nearly midnight. Scores
of persons on various missions flocked
to hie rooms, mostly who had known
Justice Shearn of New York, granted him tack ln 018 days when he was
Mrs. Leah Lerrabure a decree ofvorce
from Norman Larrabure, son of a
former Vice President of Peru.
campaigning for governor of - Km
York. There was also a sprinkling of
party leaders among his callers.
Mr. Hughes issued no statement to
day and expects to issue none until
he is formally notified of his nomina
tion. The sub-committee to confer
with him as to fixing a date for the
ceremony probably will wait on him
Russian Cavalry Force of 1,000 Men Has Been Annihilat
ed by the Turks.
Gen. Jose ' Santos Zelaya, former J
president of Nicaragua, arrived at!
New York on the Spanish steamship I
President Wilson and Governor wniot l Alfonso XIII. irom vlgo. Spain.
r ITofn. .VT i a cj ."i n i-1 fnw n. nraa4. I
il n fi fti-rtftan T-nT-pRTl 1 1 rt (T NAhraKka I - Twn hunrfrfwl thnn.nnH knv. will err I in a few days, and until then, it is nn.
sembled from numerous posts along I are pledged to President Wilson and Into preparedness camps this summer I derstood, be will allow his telegram to
uie auaniic uuusi. inejr win- Governor John ti. Mooreneaa or xse- I under the leadership or men identified l ""uu naiuiiig 01 .me repuoncan
taken from the batteries where the I braska, for vice president. The I with the Boy Scouts of America. I national convention to stand as -his
largest numoer or men are posted so I credentials of 12 delegates, represent-1 I declaration of principles without fur-
mat adequate guards may be lelt to ine Delaware. Pennsylvania and William H. Coleman. 60. of Indian- tner comment.
i
Heavy fighting Is in progress over1
virtually the entire eastern front from
the Gulf of Riga to Bukowina, a dis
tance of between 600 and 700 miles.
From Riga to the Jasiolda river, north
west of the Pripet marsh region, thjp
Germans have taken the offensive
against the Russians probably in an
effort to divert the attention of the
Russians, who are in the second week
of their drive against .the Austro-Hun-garlan
and Germans from the Pripet
marshes southward to Bukowina.
Russians Hold German Attacks.
On all sectors of the northern line
the Russians have successfully with
stood the German onslaughts and
driven the attacks forces back. They
have even gained ground against them
north of the Tirol ground against them
of Riga, says Petrograd.
In southwest Russia, li the region
of Lutsk, fresh advances against the
Austro-Hungarians are reported by
the Russian war office, as likewise is
the case across the border ' through
East Galirla. . In . the southern ( part
of this region the Russians are near
ing Czernowitz, the capital of the Aus
trlan crownland of Bukowina,'
Austriana Continue to Give Ground.
Although the Austriana at numerous
points are vigorously counter-attacking,
the only place where the Rus
sians have been forced to eive erround
tiefore them was near Bobulintze, north
of Buczacz ln Galicia, where the Aus-
trlans were reinforced by German
.troops. The Russians captured here
y the Teutonic allies exceeded 1.300
Teh total men made prisoners by the
(Russians since their offensive began
nas grown to more than 11 4.O0O.
No Change In Lines Near Verdun
Northeast of Verdun the ; Germans
with heavy effectives have thrown
successive attacks against the French
positions north of Thiaumont, but all
me assaults were repulsed with se
rious losses. The heavy bombard
ment by the Germans In this region ex
tended from Thiaumont eastward to
the west and south of Fort Vaux and
to the French second line positions of
Four Souville and Fort Tavannes,
about three miles northeast of Ver
dun.
Artillery Duels in Belgium.
On the remainder of the front ln
France and Belgium there have been
only artillery duels and sapping op
erations. except in Champagne, where
Berlin deports the penetration of
French positions and the capture of
more than one hundred men and four
machine guns.
Italians Now Moving Forward
South and southeast of Trent, the
Italians are continuing to drive back
the Austrians, according to Rome.
Gains have been made by the Italians
In the Arssf valley and the Pasubo sec
tor, along the Posina-Astlco line and
southwest, of Aslago. . Further north,
ln
INDEPENDENT ,OIL JOBBER3
ARRAIGN STANDARD OIL
CO.
How
Tell Federal Trade Commission
Industry. Was Demoralized.
Washington, June 12. Independent
oil jobbers testified today before the
federal trade, commission -that the
Standard Oil company had demor
alized the oil industry and, through
failure of the units of the company
to compete in each other's fields, had
jeopardized the existence of inde
pendent jobbers and refiners. They
declared that arbitrary high prices
set by the Standard Oil company in
Ohio and eastern states had diverted
the flow of oil from the independent
refineries of the middle west until the
independent jobbers of the west,
where a lower retail price is set by
the Standard Oil company of Indiana,
were no longer able to buy crude oil
at prices which would permit them to
compete with the Standard company.
take care of the big guns.
Funston to Assign Positions.
The engineer troops. Companies A,
B, C and D, which comprise a first I
battalion of the corps, are stationed
at -Washington barracks here. Small
detachments from this battalion are
on duty at the civilization training
camps at Plattsburgh, N. Y and. Fort
Oglethorpe, Ga. General Funston and
General Wood, commander of the j
eastern department, will confer as to
whether these detachments, can be !
South Dakota, had not been received apolis, attending the national conven
early today.
The delegation from Indiana Is un-
(Contlnued on Page Two)
CAMPAIGN TO BE MARKED
WITH INSPIRING ORATORY,
A Clash of Intellects Between Presi
dent Wilson and Mr. Hughes.
St. Louis, July 12. 'Democratic lead-
Plans Are Still Unsettled. . ;
Although the nominee's plans ar
still unsettled as to virtually all th
details of the campaign, it is likely
that he will remain in Xew York untij
June 20, when he expects to attend
reunion of the class of '81 of Brown
university at Providence.- He probably
will remain there for the commence-
m tu rrY"i .LiM-. I ment exercises the following dav. Bv
of the Sunday School Union In Long 1 lt,at xime, it la oeneved, his plans, In
tlons at Chicago, was crushed between
two street cars and severely Injured.'
The Spanish liner Montserrat, which
arrived at New York from Barcelona,
was detained at Quarantine owing to
a members of the crew having small
pox. .
spared from the cacps. The ' new ers virtually ail agree that the coming I torlU
Island City, tcok part in the Sunday
school parade which was neia in A-
f orces . will be disposed along the bor
der as General Funeton may direct.
It is understood the engineer' bat
talion will go to San Antonio.
SPREAD OF ANTI -AMERICAN
FEELING IN MEXICO,
presidential campaign will toe marked
with inspiring oratory, a clash ot in
tellects between President Wilson and
Mt. Hughe3, and markedly free from
personalities.
None of the democrats think: or toe-
I littling rhe'ability of Mr. Hughes as a
campaigner. They have not forgotten
Commander Mohr, brother-in-law of
Admiral von Scheer, the commander-in-chief
of the German high seas fleet,
was killed in action in the Jutland
battle.
E7 L. Ill TMi:.nl... t D..t..
his campaigns In New York, nor hisn T 1 v... .
Reports Pouring in from Consuls All speech in Youngstown, 0 in 1908, j ,n cgo a fugitive from JusUce I enJyment h had a hearty hand-clasp
so far as they concern his summer res
idence and the chief details of his cam
paign, will have assumed a more set
tled tone.
. Thrvvs Off Air of Reserve.
To those who knew the nominee as
a supreme court justice there was a
marked difference in his bearing to
day. His air of studious reserve ap
parently left him with the robes of
his office. His eyes sparkled with
Over Northern Mexico.
The entire first day of the commis-
the Sugna valley, fresh progress I sion's hearing here was taken up with
toward he Maso. horrent is recorded the testimony of-the independent job-
for King Victor Emmanuel's men, who bers. When the independents have
finished - Standard Oil. representath
are expected to give their explanation
or the increases and to reply to: the
charges of price fixing. '
repelled two counter-attacks near
Scurelle. In the Lagarina valley the
Austrians are heavily bombarding the
Italians on Conl Zugna.
Russian Cavalry- Force Annihilated by
. . .; Turks.'
A Russians - cavalry force of ..1,000
and MKsnnntnmk fronts Jul . an- Ulster Men Authorize Sir Edward
nlhilated by the Turks, who also Carson to Proceed With Negotiations.
cantured a. larsre amount of war ma
terial, according to Constantlnnnln. On Belfast, June 12. The Ulster Un
tile remainder of the front in Asiastic ionist council, while showing . no en-
Washington, June 12. With 1,600 ad
ditional regular troops ordered to the
Mexican tiorder tonight, and reports of
the rapid spread of antiAmericah feel
ing continuing! to pour in from consuls
-QriKft!&emMexico, administra
tion officials made too attempt to dis
guise their uneasiness. It was ofBdaUy
wnen no openea rce nsnt xor usar. xait. fttl(, nlskA in a. Ml In default- of
They also realize his physical fitness t-,ft 0(w. . . v
errv ntn a frtin. TnAntho oatrvnalovt I '
To meet Mr. Hughes and the repub
lican campaigners behind him, they
expect . -to call upon , the best of the
democratic party. Whether he person
ally will go. into the campaign; will ta
decided by the president only, tout an
effort probably will be made to get him
The American liner New York left
New. York for .Liverpool.. with every
cabin filled and ' a passenger ' list that
bore the names . of many, prominent
Americana
admitted that there is growing alarm f peal0fr "t?, Vl I rectors on charges of bankrupting the
PROPOSED COMPROMISE -
OF IRISH QUESTION
Turkey there Is no change ln the sit
uation
The marking of Important Bulga
rian movements is believed to be con
necied with the closing of the Bul
ga r-Rumanian frontier to passenger
and merchandise traffic, says an un
official despatch from Bucharest,
thusiasm for the proposed . honorable
compromise, at a meeting today pre
sided over by Sir dward Carson, au
thorized Sir Jdward to proceed with
over what the agitation may produce
and the possibility of an attack on
General Perdi'.ing's expedition.
No Attacks on Americans. -'No
case of attack on the persons of
American residents in Mexico has been
reported, although there have been one
or two attacks . on vacant consulates
and other American property.
, Renewed Raids in Laredo Region
leaders may rely, on other leading dem
ocrats, they realize the weight of the
direct word or the president.
road .about which the Jury disagreed
at the last trial, has been postponed
until next falL ,
WILL OF JOHN R. M'LEAN
IS FILED IN COURT
Personal Property and Income of Es
tate Goes to His Son.
tSTo oilrrtr Tun- 19 TnV, t. T?
Part of the increasing apprehension 1 tk'.
here is due to the renewed raids in nrovidea that all nernnnal nrnnertv
the Laredo region. . Several reports Anil thn Inrnmn of
the negotiations. The attitude of the dealing with the situation there have estate shall go to his son, Edward B,
THREE LIFE TERM
MURDERERS PARDONED
SUFFRAGE LEADERS AT
By State Board of Pardons After - a
Hearing at Wethersfield.
Hartford, Conn.. June 12. Three
murderers, sentenced to life imprison
ment, were today pardoned by the
fltate board of pardons, after a hear
ing at the state prison at Wethersfield.
Those pardoned were: Oscar Graves
of East Hartford; Antonio Grosso of
Bridgeport and Thomas Mooney -of
Waterburjr. v
Graves, who is now 60 years old,
was convicted of the mourder of Ed
ward Bliss at Burnside in 1873. John
Dynes, a companion, was pardoned
last December, after - serving' forty-
two- years. Dynes and Graves were
said to have waylaid Bliss for the pur
post of robbing him and he died from
exposure ln the snow after the as
sault. Graves has acquired consld
eraDie iame as an illustrator and a
number of artists appeared before the
board ln his behalf. He will be car
ed for at the home of Robert Meadow-
craft of Derby.
Grosso vts sentenced September 18,
S8M. for the murder of one Tlvlldo
cf DacJury, during a drunken scuffle.
His friends claimed that ' the mur
der was not intentional and that his
conduct m prison had. been exemplary.
Mooney was sentenced June 21,
3906. for the murder -of a bartender
during a fight ln a Waterbury saloon.
His elster. Catherine, of Wilkesbarre,
Pa, appeared before the board to
day and promised to obtain a posi
tion for him.
: Mrs. Anna Hyland of New Haven
county, sentenced on January 4. last-
to from one to two years for violating
the moral code, was also pardoned.
It la probable that all four person
gjOlbe liberated from the prison to-
There were thirty -neven applications
before the board but action was taken
Is only the four eases.
members was that they were willing
to make sacrifices in order, as the
government desires, to procure a set
tlement which will strengthen the
empire and aid in winning the war.
ina meeting - was private, out a
John H. Pearce, a former firs com
missioner ' and superintendent of the
Canine Rubber company, of New Ha
ven, died in a hospital after a long
illness, aged 62.
Ta , demonstrate their I ova It V to
America 7,000 men of German blood
, marched through the street of New
ark, N. J., as their contribution to the
20th anniversary celebration
i
oeen received. umciais decinM to iui. i-,..-
i .uwucau. ouu uia, uuuu laibat n I ... . ,
reveal details; but they gave the lm- death the estate shall pass to his John Ry"f voluntary prisoner In
pression of having reason to believe a children. In any event, It provides I tno county jail at New Brunswick, N.
serious ourmse was behind itwt tmnrilt I h iit -d tt i.ii I .T iumoed from a third story win-
- - - I vMw 4 i 1 rt T j juijf 1 1 O -imy( vU V W
raid on the Coleman ranch. Three shall receive $1W,000 when they reach I dow. His legs were broken, and he
raiders were killed and three catrtured. 1 tv oo- nt 91s vara inn nw .i.lwaa internally Injured.
statement 01 the (proceedings showed I one report said, addinar that thev al-ltinnai o, v.fti, 0a .Wi.. tmn aim
WriDV IM OT I ftlllO that tho nmmH rovon AToK I I ".J n T j, v.,i I ' '"""uv
..wiw-v 1 wi. ..wwiw 1 - " w .1 11 m - mi., -.uimgiifw 1 i.iui.cl tu uuiu l loiiiuou utjugo uw 1 ai tnirxy-uve.
..j-,.... .vvwubw non.iiui- u v. 1 - , imt CUU, UU1 lOilCU.
For Incorporation of an Equal Rights oration from the rest of Ulster but
Plank in Democratic Platform.
St. Louis, Mo, June 12. Hope was
high in suffrage circles tonight that
the democratic national convention
will incorporate an equal rights plank
of some form in its platform.
No official .declaration of the con
vention's intention was forthcoming,
but suffrage leaders regard the atti
tude of many democratic leaders to
ward their cause as friendly Suf
frage leaders were busy today worikng
among the more widely known demo
crats and tonight, with tentative ar
rangements made for a hearing bv the
resolutions committee on their de
agreed to abide by the decision of the
other six Ulster counties. The meet
ing further adopted a resolution stat
ing that in the event of the failure of
negotiations complete freedom of ac
tion was reserved to oppose the whole
policy ol home rule.
PRESIDENT WILSON TO ADDRESS
MILITARY ACADEMY GRADS.
New Force to Fill in Gaps,
Washington Post and the Cincinnati
Funston's border patrol. Secretary Ba- Enquirer shall not be sold without
Ker said, was to till in gaps in the ii,,., , a
The Dutch Government has made an
I arrangement with the Holland-Amerl-
properties, the will stipulates that the I Steamship Lins for a regular sup- I Mr, Huefces sent his telegram to Mr.
and a smile for every man he met, and
seemea enthusiastic in his welcome of
old friends who came to see him after
intervals of years. -
Old- Schoolmate Calls. -
They came in droves. One man an
old schoolmate," ."who used to call him
Charley," dropped in after, an absence
of nearly ioriy: years. Another, who.
said he ' had not seen "him for fifteen
years, waited an hour in the anteroom
to remind the nominee of the days
when he taught a Bible class in tlie
Fifth Avenue Baptist church, of which
the caller was a member. . "The class,"
he said, "that John D. Rockefeller, Jr.,
taught afterwards." A Texas repub
lican leader, J. E." Lutz, of Vernon,
trailed him from Washington merely
to shake hands and say. "Texas will
be with you."
Rofbert Fuller, who was Ms secretary
when he was governor, spent the af
ternoon helping him receive callers,
and Major Crossit, who was his mili
tary aide in 1910, established himself
at the door to the inner office.
Campaign to Be Started Early.
Party leaders among the callers
seemed to agree that the campaign
would be started early. Mr. Parsons
said that in his opinion the campaign
was already on.
It started Saturday," he said, "when
ply of cotton and other necessities
for Dutch industries.
guard such as that near Laredo. It
will be composed pf ten companies of
coast artillery and a battalion of en
gineers. The artillerymen wil be
withdrawn from fortifications between
Portland, Me.,- and Sandy Hook, and
Baltimore lawyer, who handled much
pi Mr. McLean's business..
UNGRATEFUL YOUTH
ROBBED BENEFACTOR
Harding."
The campaign in New York city Is
tA h AMHTlOll l!a VAAlr H4V VAantna
r or tno iniru iimo mummi, uiii
t14, " the- .Philadelphia sc tieaaing
" . i I i .il . . . . . ...
grand Jury for violating the inter- I wosxiy en monxns or uuxunous- l-iv-
stata Commerce ano mikin acts. i ina. -
Boston, June 12 Ten" months f
the engineers go from barracks in this William J. Pike . 16. Stole Jewel rv . ""',T tU "i.. " t 1"xou.B Uvlng o nthe part of Edwral
Arrived in New York From Washing
ton at 10:15 Last Night.
New YorlBi June 12. President
Wilson arrived here from Washington
at 10:16 tonight. - The presidential
party was met at the stalton by Dud-
city. The secretary said there was no
present intention of calling out addi
tional national guard regiments for
border duty.
Cavalry Patrol Fired Upon.
General Mann, commanding at Lare
do, - reported today that a patrol- of
From A. L. Wright of Quincy.
take full cahrge of all the
mands, probably on Wednesday they JyJS4 vMn iloS? the night of June 10 near the towTcrf Ported missing with Jewelry
Boston, June 12. William J. Pika,
16, years old, who recently was ad
mitted tq this country after a story
o fhardships in the Canadian north -wset
where he had been sent from an
UMree cavalrymen was fired on during English orphan assylum, today was re
units of the American Physicians' Ex
pedition Committee in Austria.
O VlrtAraA AoA 4m Vila bivm hara
. , 1 1 . 11111U1 U 1A 1 1 U 1, 11 ... U 1 U .1 1 l 1 V l l-l u
cC tonight in connection with an indict-
were optimistio.
Mrs. Arthur Dodee of New York.
leader of anti-suffragist forces, is here
to make a determined stand against
any favorable mention of equal rights
in mo piaxiorm. .National Chairman
McCombs said tonight that she prob
ably would be given the same amount
or time as the suffragists. The Na
tlonal American Woman Suffrage As
sociatlon and tha. Congressional
Union and Its auxiliary, ths Woman's
Party, will divide the time equally for
IUB PU1.I1K,
The National Association wants on
ly a favorable declaration for suf
frage ln the platform, while the Union
and the Woman's Party desire im
mediate action by congress upon the
Dimw o, Acmony amendment,
PERFECT DINOSAUR MORE
THAN 135 FET LONG
Unearthed by Prof. Earl Douglas at
Jensen, Utah,
Jeasen, Utah, June tt.T-Pxofessor
Earl Douglas of the - Carnegie Mu
seum, Pittsburgh, pa Just unearthed
of New York, and taken in an auto
mobile to the Seventy-ninth Street
wharf in the Hudson river, . where
they boarded the yacht Mayflower,
Early tomorrow morning the May
flower will start for West Point.
where the president is to address the
graduates jot the military academy to
morrow.
Haohita, and Private W. L. Saunders, 1 nioney from the home of his. bene-
xroop Ji, Twelfth cavalry, slightly "ciru ai wuincy, ana later was ar
w minded. Two mounted Mexicans who rested at Manchester, N H. He was
did the firing escaped.. held for the Immigration authorities,
Unrest at Vera Cruz who Plan to re-open his case with a
.unrest at vera uruz. view to having him deported. A- L.
A message from Captain (Burrage. Wrisrht who Y,ri c-iven th k. .
commanding the battleship Nebraska, home, stated that he ran away with
at Vera Cruz, said there was consider- I two gold watchea a revolver, cartride-
More than 5,000 hardware man met
in Boston last night for the annual
convention . of the National Retail
Hardware Association which opens
and J today and will continue four days.
ment charging him with the larceny of
122,000, from the Booth and Finn Co,
contractors of New York. He was
locked up as a fugitive from Justlce.-
Thouaanda of alumni of the Massa
chusetts Institute of Technology took
part in the first celebration in con
nection with the dedication on Wed
nesday of the new group of technolo-
HURLEY NEW HEAD OF
TRACE COMMISSION
ASSISTANT TO AMERICAN
AMBASSADOR AT PETROGARD
Prof. R. J. Ham Notified of His Ap
pointment by State Department.
able unrest in that region, due appar
ently to the currency situation. There
were no evidences of . unfriendliness
toward Americans, the message said.
It added that the Carranza govern
ment had been sending troops and am
munition inland. Captain Burrage did
not know the object of these troop
es, a razor and money.
APPOINTMENTS MADE
BY J. O.
Judae Richard E. Burke of the Su
perior Court, one of the guests made
ill at the bankuet to Archbishop
Mundeleln when Jean Crones, the
chef, placed poison in the soup, died at
HALI DAY 1 Chicago
Brunswick, Me., June 13. Professor movements.
ttoscoe. J. Ham, pr iiowaoin, was no- Protest Presence of American Troon..
tiflAri rm tf-iA atflta iiariAH'niArtt . a I . 1 .
Washington today of his appointment IJVJJ' transportation of the New York, New
as a special assistant to the American SSSi ?Ye Hartford railroad? has
Superintendent of Transportation of
the New Haven Road.
New York. June 13. J. O. Halldav.
recently appointed superintendent of
ambassador at Petrograd. Professor
called the attention of the de ' facto
cam win servo as a msappet pi a spe- I "vmvT TTij Ir. , ms 8Iarl. it was announced at the lo-
oiai commission organized py the I TY'"V-" """"' cal office of the New Haven tonight!
MEXICAN BANDIT8
IN CARRANZA UNIFORMS
Pus- of Thres Who Raided Coleman
Ranoh Was Killed
Xjaredo, Tax.. Jons 18. One of the
ires Mexican bandots killed today Jnl
,e cnaoo w onunwi wno raineft fhA
Coleman ranch, near Laredo last night
jlrore a Carranza uniform bearing the
insignia, of a Carranza lieutenant colt
nei, acooraing to a message rece!y
:d hers tonight. One of the bandits
taken prisoners identified the body at
tVebb, Texas, this afternoon as that
f Lieutenant Colnoel Villareal of the
Carranza army.
Si
Snprsm Court Adjourns. '
Washlnrton. June 12. After an
nouncing a number of decisions today,
e Birrreme couix aajoumer unui oc
. ..j." -ie3ct ; ,
American Red "Cross and working un
per the American consul-general at
Moscow to investigate conditions Id
Russian prison camps.
Movements of " Steamships.
TilTAmMl TlHIA 1 rt ImJw.,.
W '' Ha I Steamer Gf apian, Montreal.
P,b9 JPed- Christtansad. Jiine lL-iirired
"-"n?t&lVa tstaxes Steamer Krederlk Vnj, New -York.
Th.flck is more than sixtyraye feet Sailed: June 10th. steamer "Oscar II;
lopg and the thigh bones more than New "York
threa feet in diameter. The 'snedmpn . - -r i a
has been fully caated a4,5dirbs yio'usiyTstesW Duca'Aosta. New nestly' tried ln m08t c3Jie9 vnyml
ahn TMtoKjh , "ITJOUSiy Steamer Jnca aaosta, new ths-nnMlnir of -mrotnat meeflne-s 'ni, i
have been spreading. Many towns
have bekl lnass meetings and protested
against the continued presence pf
American troops in Mexico. In two or
three instances "American property has
been attacked, but no threats against
lives of Americana have been report
ed. The -reports of consuls telling of
the agitation were turned over to the
Carranza officials, more as a matter of
information than as representations.
Where his regular troops are in control
apparently 'General Carranza bas eat-
OBlTUARy.
Rsv, yrus 'West' Francis.
rus $fest E'rancis, ythp from 1ST8 to
1694 was professor of systematic the-.
oiogy ana etmcs at jiziania umver I er et. faul. New'xork.
sity, died here tonight, fonowing' a Naples, JUh'e' it Sailed; Steamer
breakdown in health. He was 6$ I Oftnte Alegherle, New York.
Kirkwall. June 9Saned;: Steamers lXSWPB&JS
Npordam, (from Rotterdam) New ,ti 1
r&Lrjune ' IJ.Signaned. tJ8011-
Steamer " La louraine. Bordeaux for I . AT7u . , T Tj
New' Sort. '"" Dock t p.- tn. Tuesday.
UverpooT. June'18:- Arrived: Steam
Outbreak Unaccounted For. . ,
Ofllciala ' have been unable to deter
mine the Inspiration 'behind the sud
den outbreak of anti -American feeling.
or to estimate the " ability of General
years old. Rev. Sir.' TSahcls'Vas a Glasgow, June 10. Sailed r Steamer I Carranza to protect American lives and
Braauats pt jiaio in ijji) tiaes pi -laws carina ginian, Montreal,
and pf fhe yalo iWinify: ScIiooX In "Bordeaux- Jrthe It. Sailed: Steamer
1S67, He held a number pt "pastor- LOfayett, New York. - - :-
ates in the state and in the south, be- IJew "York, June 12. Sailed, steamer
ing ordained in the Congregational toannia, Piraeus. .
faith, - " ' Liverpool, . June 12. Arrived,
His-jwifa and -twoons. gurvlva. - steamer Grduna, JJewSork,
property. They 'feel that the real 'San
ger lies "in the possible action of. ir
regular forces now under ttie Carranza
banner, but whose commanders .yield
only doubtful allegiance to the central
government.
F. M. Clark, freisrht assistant: J.
E. Clifford, passenger assistant; A. P.
Uunaer, superintendent car servloej
G. H. Staehle, car accountant; W. I,
Prost, superintendent station service,
and E. J. Mather, chief clerk.
Mexico, officials feel that the possi
bility Of serious trouble Is enhanced.
l"he currency situation is acute and the
people are easily stirred to outbreaks.
The eeveral - consular agents have
frankly declared In their reports that
Many Americans living ln the dis
trict bordering the Rio Grande began
an-ivine: at Laredo. Texas with the in
tention of remaining until rumors of I
new danger from bandit raids had
been quieted.
Palling eight stories from a broken
scaffold at the jsew jsreaners noiei.
Atlantic City, Paul Gustini, 33, an
Italian laborer, was killed in plain
view of hundreds of promenaders on
the boardwalk.
The Aero Club of America has re
ceived information that orders for
twenty aeroplanes were placed by the
War Department during the last week.
This brings the total for a month up
to thirty machines.
f L ,
M f
Charged with representing himself
i a Government officer for purposes
aVeiituty might e exacted if gL FJ ha
ine agitation continued to spread. ZJ??"
, . . L-ansing mt vrorit on mom. m default of 30 bail.
oecxexary Lansing snu is ai worn en
ris repijrto the Carranza pots demand-1 Mm- G-orola D'Orev. a Hon
r
Because of - economicrcondltlons-ln.' Companlaa. A. -BC and D.
tosA aii torca. He who "vT'y performances "with
aagtn declined today to discuss it- - eight Uons and lionesses in a cage at
Coast Artillerv, Ordered to Border, Coney Island, was attacked and se
The coast artillery ordered to the verely bitten on the arm by Irma, an
border today, includes two companies African lioness, during a performance,
from Portland, Me two from Boston, ....
two "from Nariaganjsett " bay, two from ' John ; - Sohermerh'orn ' of No. 25
Ijongi'Ieland, one from eastern New Bast Seventy-ninth Street, New York,
York, one f rom soutfcern New York and has reported to the police that his
one from Sandy Hook. - Approximately house .was entered on May 25, while
1.C00 men will compose this provisional the family was away and 1 1,000 worth
Infantry, regiment. The engineer bat- of personal Jewelry consisting of two
taiion, aDout aiH) strong, is comiposea oi ' watcnes, two suck pins, some studs.
cuff links, etc, were atoien.
1 '
' The federal trade commission ha
lng decided to adopt the practice f
the interstate commerce commission
with regard to the chairman of ths
commission and observe - annual rota- ,
tion in the election of its chairman,
Edward N. Hurley was selected by
vote as chairman to succeed Joseph
E. Da vies. . The . commission did not
formally' announce its new procedure,
but the fact' became known. after a
conference at the White House be
tween ex -Chairman Da vies and Pres
ident -Wilson. Edward Hurley has
been a member, of the federal trade
commission, whoso function is the
prevention of unfair methods of com
petition in commerce, since its organ
ization. . r -i- " .
