yjyrmr
NIGHT
EXTRA
vtfemaa
'FINANCIAL. EDITION
iErtiger
NIGHT
EXTRA
fOIi. H.-NO. 234
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 191G.
'v CormlaiiT, 1010, ST ill PctUo Ltpoti CostriNt. '
PRICE ONE CENT
PRUSSIANS SWEEP TOWARD .
LEMBERG; THREATEN KOVEL;
115,000 PRISONERS TAKtfN
I Violent Austrian Counter-Attacks Fail
to Stem oiavs unsiaugnts Jboaded
Guns Abandoned by Teutons
and Turned Against Them
k.i
?!
' Italians Push Their Offensive Movement in Trentino and
Advance Between the Adige and Brenta Rivers.
Enemy. Masses "Unavailingly Launched Against
Them in Val Sugana District
4
Czcrnowitz, the capital of Bukowina, toward which the, drive of the Russian
t Wing 13 QirCCieUi IB iuik uicu.uuh.-u ujr llic luaiumio. uciliuurg 13 now
I . 1.. tltvnnfonnrl ihv llflth tho rpntrn nnrl tlm rifrlif winrr nf lin pTtif'a
injuriously uhvmv...- rf - -t"" ". - -- w. u
.anhies that it is reported that the civil population of the capital of, the rich
rjalicia province has nlready been ordered to cvacuatc.it. This is, briefly stated,
the situation on the Austro-Russlan front after a little more than a week since
the Slavs irresistible drive Was begun.
While the Austro-Hunenrinrfe, utterly unable to stop the wave of invasion
,whlch again threatens the Dual Jlonarchy, are swiftly driven back toward the
Carpathians, von Hindcnburg is said to have attacked the Russmn line north
efPlhsk, evidently hoping to divert Russian forces from Volhynia ,nnd Galicia
Mid compel General Brusiloff to 'abandon his southern offensive. Whether von
'Hincienburg's offensive, undertaken now with far smaller forces than in the sum
mer of lost year, will succeed in making any impression on the Russians and
compel General Kuropatkin to summon aid from the southern army of General
Brusiloff is to be seen. It may be safely assumed that the Russian Staff, fully
'meeting a renewal of the German pressure north of Pinsk, has prepared to
Bieet' the, situation.
fiprmanv has her hands full in France. Will she abandon the Verdun
L.(f,.fvn inrnin to check the .Czar, as she did after the Marne? This is another
"'11 u" :- in 4Vin nrrapnt oir.nntinn. Whnt'seems certain nmv is thnt Gor-
inieresiuiB juiui r- - -
many and Austria are beginning to feci the uncomfortable position of having to
fight simultaneouslyon more' than one front.
In the meantime, while the military situation on tho Eastern front appears
to serious, the Italians are pushing their offensive movement on the Trentino
front taking advantage, of the withdrawal of Austrian troops and artillery.
Advn" are announced from the Adige to the Brenta rivers, which shows clearly
tisal the Austrian pressure there has diminished.
RECEIVE HONORS FROM PRINCETON
AfAA G.LC0MeD lDGE JOSCPtf BtrffNGTOtf, I CD .GlOOCTfr, llJf
WOOD, C CO.
stfiuei jstrr, sc o
cr.ivaTiiTiF.ATEN TO INVEST
14 '..... m tnimnnn unnTnrca
.UUtyAl. liEiMUBliW ruivmuuu
IS . , " PETUOGRAD, June u.
tnrougn uucia,hnvo '" '",T h
fetysnS PemWoyna today, to threaten the
Investment of Lemberg, the fortified capital
ofA'ie province,, . .
iriOelleveATre.Jhat, the Aus tro -
JTun&rUris have determined to defend the
city, uispatcnea receiyeu iou i.f. - -i
Buchif't state that tho Austrian military.
uiihArituo havA ht-,trpri the. civilian popuia-,
?..4n 4a .imnii.ta th. IniVtl
If 50ii..n..t..1 ,.,.....,, atnnnt ntf. from
'jPfiw War Office tpday Indicate primarily
EBjir emoerg is now mo nuu w-j ---rfsthe'
great Russian offenalve, although
Cwrnowltz, capital of TSukowlna, Is only
p. (lightly secondary Importdnco In the
jUm of the Russian General Staff. The
WH objective Is Kovel, northwest- of the ,
captured fortress, of Lutsk and the' com
pute railroad ..junction commanding the
M.Mi,nlMilnn. in ftrAnt.T.ltnVSk and thfl
I- bote Teutonic line in the (-"Pet region.
toe orjve againsi i.emoer m u'" .-
; jersonal command of General Brussilofl
mi the forces engaged In It "consist of a
ante proportion or cossacKs. ino uu"p
vi iar as is now apparent, w . m ..---(,
tt. least two sides from the northeast
' .i r . . . .... a ..nA.TJ.tn.
, impugn, uroay, suu in ,mo auu-"
, raplan hanfla and rtrnOAAtllnCf from the Cap-
J lured fortress of Dubno, and from tho
EfjottUwast and south, tn which direction
fthe Ilusslan forces are already rorgins
ftlead'!toward the Zlota Llpa. t
LOADED GUNS ABANDONED
'" The defense of "the Austro-Hungarlans
l4 Germans has stiffened, but violent
eounter-attacks have apparently made little
M" no Impression upon the momentum of
the Russian onslaught. The. latest official
report states that the number of prisoners
eiptured since the offensive movement be
a has now reached almost J15.000 officers
' ad men, as well as an almost Incredible
WHhre and hundreds of machine guns.
Bo rapid was the advance of the nus
ln armies In the region of Lutsk that the
Austrian In several Instances did not wait
to fire the guns they had loaded, accord.
migio a reirograq mspatcn toaay. in mo
tn;e the Itunalana appropriated the
ffin,e Hk.A .1..... J. ...a .ba .Kam. Ivht
' Jut and poured their- deadly' hall Into the
-"q men.
LOSE ONE-THIRD OF AHy.
It is now estimated that more than one.
iJM of the men In Austrian armies on
we east front have been killed, wounded
or taken prisoners since the giant offensive
UrttdJllna 4. Tn nrtlnna anph lis the ItUS
plM are engaged the estimate at thereon-
rvtlve critics la two killed or Injured
,r every Prisoner. This would mean that
..total of 360.00(1 AuatHana have been nut
I 'f the fighting since June 4. The Aus-
sa -" my on ir.e earn rrpnt naB Deen van.
7 TOly estimated at from 700,000 to 1,000,000
Tha new Husslan line nqw makes a deep
Continued on Pe Fuur, Coluina Two
THE WEATHER
Even th ... i.,lT.t.-A ' -. ,...
1 ST ,? account of Us long absence from
"h Iw cheeks wera deep red -and it cast
i.Mk m?t Qve rnnaaeipnia, as inouisn
- iter4tlng concerning- the next , move.
S? i ...ved nat ' crlroaon cheeks
m tSf I .J wa a ,aU alarm- Jt was
& :"" iiuaL uiana nag nn anciaiiv
B2S?? to hlne on a, very serious event
S KTf "f?1" tomorrow at St. Louis, but
PiLSe4lifr man declined to dUcus? the
e(2itrt We vMl have te let It go at that
f 4r,i.- V9. BOJe l0 ena" reporter W
jSftM ? 5?rvlw the moon Itself. It
Wsrf "cea inciaentally that M& Moon
rSffiLwfy the- and 8avb ua some
---.,, Mi
FORECAST
tiiifiXtrtPiyj?.j ?,vr
ir, ItflArjtui nut,'? if1ri.r. .f.Jj.
I.OSU AHD POTT-wri
f&ttSS: fSjFfS&.. sk
.? Ti1! rfar.fw fi&'fiisrs
.Ulrt. .. - - "-"
MS3, ,lm. " .. .
! "ftA. WHB4 tlu,
ri .r?t
-t-a t?i
froja KmrMrth
WB Hfltt t
fflLftarJ
br KM iSSSi
'DOPE' USERS' FATE
HINGES ON PLEA
TO-FREE 2 MEl
Peddlihg and Possession of
Drugs Depend Upon'
Court's Decision
JURY MAY NOT GET CASE
Judge J, Whltnker Thompson In tho
United States court this afternoon w)I
probably decide whether "dope" users and
traffickers will have a free rein In Philadelphia-
as regards the use - and sale of
drugs. Upon his decision will also depend
whether 60 or more persons accused of
peddling drugs will be freed on a recent
ruling 'by the United States Supreme Court,
declaring unconstitutional section 'eight of
the Harrison anti-drug act. Section eight
provides that all persons convicted of hav
ing drugs In their possession be punished
by jgjl sentence. .
Judge Thompson win make the decision
In the cases of Robert Martin and Thomas
Rowan, on trial .before Judge Thompson,
who were arrested In a ropm at 240 North
10th street on May 5. In the room was
found nearly a bushel basket full of mor
phine, opium, cocaine and heroin and a
full "cjope," dealer's outfit, Including scales
and packages for the distribution of drugs.
Thesp thngu were exhibited to the Jury,
There was no evidence of any sale, how
ever, and Judge Thompson said he did
not see how he could send the case to
the Jury, because the Supreme Court had
ruled that the .possession of drugs did not
constitute a crime. However, on the plea
of United States District Attorney Francis
Fisher Kane he agreed to defer Tils final
decision In the case until this afternoon
to give the 'District Attorney an opportunity
to present 'further argument.
"COKE" "VICTIMS IN COURT,
The courtroom was tense while Mr, Kane
was arguing with Judge Thompson to send
the case to the Jury, Denizens of the un
derworld leaned forward to catch every,
word. They were there to see whether the
"dope" lid would be lifted from the tender
loin. There were a score or more of "dope"
victims there. The faces of' some of them
twitched nervouslyf'reveallng the grin of
the morphine habit. Others carried In their
faces the florid glow of the cocaine user.
They had the glassy eyes and enlarged
pupils of Ihe "coke" victim,
Rowan'a face was flushed a tialmon color
and he bent forward eagerly to catch every
wl.rU. Martin's face was as white as chalk,
his eyea were watery, the muscles of his
face twitched continually and he snuffled
like a man with a January cold. Frequently
his eyes closed and h snored faintly. These
catnaps would last only a few seconds.
His hands would Jerk, up suddenly like a
person's with a nervous affliction, and his
watery eyes would open.
When Judge Thompson pointed out to
the district attorney that there was no evl.
dence of a sale. Rowan turned gleefully 'to
Martin and whispered: "Bob, I think we
are going to make It" Martin snuffled,
but pd no reply-
SEIZED DRUOS SHOWN.
Both Rowan and Martin were exceedingly
nervous while Assistant District Attorney
Kremp was exhibiting to the. Jury the
"dope" confiscated from their room. Marr
tin perspired freely. There were-about 80
package of cucajne, several bottles of
morphine an heroin, and twq poxes of
smoHInsr opium. jmcriuM iuus uwhii
McDevltt and Beach testlfled mat they hail
confiscated tei articles from a room In
which they had found both Rowan and
gome of the dope was found under a bed.
and the remainder In a smalt safe In a
closet Policeman John Hart testified how
Martin, wearing nothing but an undershirt,
h&d leaped out at -thM-ftory window- to
the roof of shed an4 in dropped e
Jieund. Harf. J8 b Wrtt Martin back
ie, tho nam, iffc Jm was,. erdr4 to
PRINCETON, N, J., Juno 13. Two
hundred and fifty-six seniors received
diplomas In tho 169th annual commence
ment exercises at Princeton today.
In addition, many honorary degrees were
conferred by President Hlbben, and stu
dents of the Gpraduato College also re
ceived their degrees of Master of Arts and
Doctor of Philosophy. The largest number
of degrees' to any one division was granted
to the Bachelors of Letters, there, being
100 of them, as compared to' 92 Bachelors
of Arts, 32 Bachelors pt Science, 17 Civil
Engineers, nnd -4 Electrical Engineers.
Major-General Leonard Wood, U, S. A.,
nnrl TTnlrl KlntA HnMnr ITenrV Cabot
lT Lodge, of Boston, both received tho degree
tvocMiTfemfMnl8-othermbh(rrary
111 degVeeiT'were .conferred, Including Samuel
ilea, presiueni or me ronnsyivaniw jihu
road; Rolla Wells., mayor of St. Louis,
arid PaUl Matthews, Episcopal bishop, of
New Jersey,' A number of fellowships
were rinnounced, and ' results of both un
dergraduate 'and graduate prlies made
known.
The -valedictorian of the class Is Boudl'not
Bakewell Atterbury, of BrouKlyn; N. Y and
the Latin ualutatortan Is Ethan Davidson
Alyea, of Clifton, N.,J. Aly'ea was tjlven
highest honors In philosophy; and' Atter
bury In economics and social Institutions.
Two other students received magna cul
laude degrees,. Edward Sterling Carter In
mathematics and Charles Phelps Smyth In
chemistry,
HONORARY DEGREES.
The list of honorary degrees conferred
follows:
256 GET'ftEGREES
FROM PRINCETON;
HONORARY AWARD
Diplomas Issued to Large
Class at 169th Commence
ment Exercises
SAMUEL REA HONORED
MASTER OF ARTS.
ROLLA WELLS a graduate of Princeton
In the class of 1876? now governor of the
Federal Reserve Bank at St, Louis ; twice
chosen Mayor of that city; successful
In his vigorous efforts for decent govern
ment and In gaining confidence born In
local and national politics.
JULIAN ALDEN WEIR President of the
National Academy of Design i repeatedly
honored here nnd abrpad; first trained
under Gerome, and soon advancing to
Continued on re Six. Column Two
WILSON DEFINES
AMERICAN IDEAL
AT WEST POINT
Tells Graduates U. S. Must
See That Its Life Is Not
Interfered With
PREPAREDNESS REAL NEED
WEST POINT, N. Y.. June 13. "The
world Is going to know that when America
speaks .ho means what she Bays," Presi
dent Wilson told tho Mllltnry Academy
graduating class today. ,
A moment before he had said: "Un
doubtedly, gentlemen. It Is tho duty of
America to be prepared."
President Wilson promised In behalf of
the United Stntcs to uphold the Monroe
Doctrine. He promised, too, what ho did
not promise when ho made the recent Peace
League speech, that when tho time conies
America will be ready to Join the other
nations to sec that "thut kind of Justice
prevails everywhere that we believe In.
To bo military does not mean being
militaristic, the President said. He nsked
the West Point men not to forget that they
nre citizens first. ..,,. ....
Mentioning the "small number' who Ioe
their countries more than the country or
their ndoptlon ho said:
, "Nobody who doesn't put America first
can consort with us."
The Preslde'nt said:
"I look upon this body of men who nre
graduating today with a peculiar Interest.
I feel llko congratulating them that they
are living In a day not only so Interesting,
because fraught with chnngo. but also
because so responsible. Days, of responsi
bility' are the, only days that count In time,
because they are tho" only days that give
test of quality. They nre tho only days
Avjien, manhood and purpose Is tried out as
If by fire.
' AnuiT nntnaTinNR PRESENT.
,e.edhnoaT91--!Hnfi'- ?ltlc,,mSiiU'
thatyou are riotnike.an-prdlnary' graduat
ing class qf one.ot our unieroiujo.
men In those classes look forward to the
life .which they are to' lead after graduating
with a great many questions In their minds.
Most of. .them do not, know exactly whnt
their lives are-going to develop. Into. Some
of them do riot'know what occupations' they
are going to follow. All of them are con
jecturing what 'will be the line of duty and
advancement and the .ultimate goal of sue
-cess for) them.
il.l.M. to nn fnn'ArtlirA for VOU. YOU
Lhaye enllsttfd In something that .docs not
stop when you leave mo ''
then only begin to realise It, which then
only begins to be filled with the full rich
ness of Us meaning, and you can look for
ward with absolute certainty to the sort
of thing that you will be obliged to do.
"This baa always been true of graduating
classes af West Point, but the certainty
that some of the older classes used to look
forward to. wan u very dull certainty. Some
of the old days In the army, I fancy, were
not. very interesting days.
"Sometimes men like the present chief of.
staff, for example, could fill their Jives with
the Interest of really knowing and under
standing tbe Indians of the Western plains,
knowing what was going on Inside of their
minds; and, being able to be tho Interme
diary be'tween them nnd those who dealt with
them by hpeaklng their Blgn language, could
enrich their lives; but the ordinary life of
Continued on l'aie Four, Column Two
QUICK NEWS
AMERICAN BANKS LEND $50,000,000 TO CZAR
' NEW YOltK, June 13. The following nnnmincemrnt was tint'
by the Natloml CUy Bfinlt this nilcrnooni "Definite cablrs ri-Wircn
linvo been received today announcing' the closing of a loan of $50,000,
000 to tiie Kussinn Government by nn American banking group con
slstng of the National City Bank, the Guaranty Trust Company, of
New York; J. P. Morgan & Co. Kidder, Pcabody & Co. nnd Lee, HlfT
ginsou Company. "
BELMONT RACING RESULTS
Firet race, 2-ycnv-olds, selling, 500 ndded, 5 furlongs Cheer,
111, Taplln, 1 to 10 and out, won;Rad!ant Flower, 101, rreecc, 12 to 1,;
2 to 0 nnd out, second; Moonlighter, 00, Lyke. 00 to 1, G to 1 uud
0 to 5, third. Time, 1 tog. Spinster also van.
AUSTRIAN AIR BOMBS DAMAGE VENICE
VIENNA, Juno 13. Damage was done to railways nnd military establishments
during a raid by Austrian aeroplanes over Venice and vicinity on Sunday night, It
was officially announced today.
BURLESON REFUSES TO REMOVE BLAKSLEE
WASHINGTON. June 13. Postmaster General Burleson today rejected the
Senate I'ostolllco Committee's demand for tho removal of Fourth Assistant Post
master General Ulakslce because of tho rallwny mall pay chargeH. In a letter to tho
committee today, Uurlcson expressed regret at tho controversy but clearly Indi
cated his Intention of backing up Hlakslee.
MOVE TO BAR U. S. JUSTICES FROM POLITICS
WASHINGTON, Juno 13. Senator Thomas, Colorado, toduy Introduced a resolu
tion for an amendment to the Constitution prohibiting members of the Supreme
Court being- candidates for public cfueo. This Is In line with tho Democratic pro
gram to nnsull Justice Hughes' action In leaving the bench for tho Republican
nomination.
GASOLINE PRICES TO FALL; REACH; MAXIMUM
WASHINGTON, June 13. Gnsollno prices have reached the maximum. Thoy
will rapidly become lower throughout tho country. Prices In Kansas nlready have
dropped from 21 to 17'.'j cents a gallon. This was the feature of evidence given at
today's hearlns by the Federal Trade Commission into tho gasoline price situation.
FOOD RIOTS RAGE IN VIENNA; WOMEN TAKE PART
LONDON, Juno 13. Food riots rnged In Vienna all night, according to an Ex
change Telegraph dispatch from Ilerne Switzerland. Most of tho rioters were
women. When policemen tried to disperse them street nshtlng- of great violence
followed.
BRYAN IN BACK SEAT
NOW INSTEAD OF IN
CONVENTION SPOTLIGHT
Finds Democratic National Com
mittee to Tell Him "Good
by and God Bless
You"
HIS ' OCCUPATION GONE
, i
By 'peHI: ARNOLD
ST. LOUIS. June XS WUIIam Jennings
Bryan arrived today and found the Demo
cratic National Committee- ready to tell
him "goodby and God bless you.
Nothing could bembre n"vfnhtJw.
Democracy times have changed than the
fact that the Great Commoner, four times
a dominant flgurX in national conventions
and three time's pemocracy's candidate
for presidential honors, now figure. In the
councils of that party as. a mere alternate
from NebrasSa and a reporter.
In all the platform talk heard today
the?e was no Indication that the former
Secretary of State would have a hand In
the hewlPK of " pkma, "e pledged him
ee?f mvI weeks ago" not to Inject thepro
hlbltlon Issue Into the conventlon-and
having done w, ihi Democrats were willing
today to let Bryan alone with hopes that
Brian would also Jet "Democracy alone and
falsa no discordant note In the harmony
program. -
Twenty years ago the silver-tongued
orator came to the 189S Pemocratlc con
vention as a reporter, thrilled Democracy
with his eloquence and departed Its presi
dential candidate. Four years later he was
renominated. In W. hla leadership was
rejected and another candidate chosen, but
four years later fit was WJlUam J. Bryan
who made the race as Democracy's stand
ard bsarer. In 1913, It was Bryan who
forced the nomination of Woodrow Wilson;
Bryan who headed off Champ Clark, and
Bryan who. dictated thq platform.
In the convention of )81 William J
Bryan will b a reporter again, Just as
was JO year ago, H la otllcUlly accredited
rUmi as alternate. Alternates cannot ad
dress tb chair from the fieof except wl)h
unanimous Mt $wspzpt reporter.
of courK, cawaof stlcifitf to th PW
ctedusw. ' 4j
ENGLAND PAYS GREAT
MEMORIAL TRIBUTE TO'
MARSHAL KITCHENER
King'Queen, Queen Mother, Peer
age, Government, Diplomatic
Corps and Commonalty
Throng St. Paul's
THOUSANDS STAND IN RAIN
Memorial Poem to K. of K.
By IlOBEnT BRIDGES
Pott Laureate of Ensland.
Unflinching hero, watchful to foreeee
And face thy country! peril whro'ver,
Directive" war and peace with equal care,
Tilt 'by long tott ennobled, thou wert he
Wham England, called and bade, "Set my
arm 'ree
To o"y ray will and aave my honor fair,"
What" '' the foe presumed on her deapalr,
And haftereelf had trmt In none but h.
Anvmg-Herculean deedi. the miracle
That, roaeaefWha Jabor of tea years In one
Shatr be' thy monument. Thy work a done
Ere'we could thank theei and the hlgli aea
' awell .'
Surgetlf, unheeding, where thy proud, ahlp
By the. lone Orkney ere the et of auo,
5Q?8iB'V Jl"-e J Tne ,ae Kall
KtfcJne jret Britain's premier soldier,
lost wjjen He-cruiser Hampshire was mined
near. the"rkney Islands, was tqday(pald
a trjbute a's gra as England has ever
given her departed heroes.
The-service was in St. Paul's Cathedral.
Royalty; peers, soldiers and statesmen at
tended. Jamming the mighty cathedral to
the doora. white thousands stood ouUlde In
the ruin wlt heads bared.
Wrists Ja every 4'retlon from the ca
thedral -wre Jmni4 tightly that
progresf o th, rfutomobilee- was ,lmpded.
Thoueiuidi pf mourners men and wpmiuvm
drenched to the. ikitu lined the royal rout
and b,owe4 their trtads. in, memory, of '-,
ofK.". " ' "I
JJJng Grg. 9eirj Mary sivlQ-wea
,, ijjBitltoyga -em Bis Uts, Culv'wa ' Fmu-
l ie j -ffcMS.
1
RUSSIANS TORPEDO BIG GERMAN SHIP
COPEItfHAUE', June 13. A big German merchant ship was torpedoed ojf
Carlkronea-on-Monday by a Hussion submarine, according to information received in
chipping circles hero today. (Citrlkrone Is on tho 'Swedish coast In the Baltic."
AMERICAN SHIP AGROUND OFF RUSSIAN COAST
ARCHANGEL, Russia, June 13. The American ship Caroline hns gone aground
on Kola Peninsula, at tho entrance of tho White Sea..
MRS. GEORGE GOULDTO AUCTION OFF GEMS FOR ALLIES
NEWYOltlC, Juno 13. Under the hammer wielded by the hand of Mrs. George
J, Gould, two million dollars in gems will be 'sold at tho allied-bazaar tonight. Pur
chasers of. gem collections from Newport, Tuxedo Park and Lenox have been Invited
to bid for the rare Jewels.
CITY OF SAVANNAH AGROUND; REFLOATED
LONDON, Juno 1?. A dispatch from Lourenco Marques, Portuguese East Africa,
states that the American steamship City of' Savannah, of 4378 tons, which has been
uground n'fter being damaged by Are, has been refloated. Her cargowhlch is almost
ontlrely spoiled, Is being discharged. The vessel was bound from Calcutta for New
Tiork and Boston. ""
GREECE MAY RECEIVE TERMS OF ALLIES TODAY
ATHENS, June43. There Is a divergence of opinion here over the holding up by
tho Entente Governments of the conditions on which the GreekJpkude will be raised.
They probably will be presented today. It Is believed that thePPndltlons will call for
demobilization of the Greek army and a change In the chlaf of police, thus drawing
tho teeth of the present government. The American Legation Is being bombarded
by protests from American business representatives in Greece against the blockade.
TURKS ANNIHILATE 1000 SLAV CAVALRYMEN
CONSTANTINOPLE, Juno 13. In an engagement on the Irak front, the fighting
area between the Caucasian and Mesopotamia!! fronts, tho Turks annihilated a
cavalry force of 1000 and captured a large amount of war material, the War Office
announced yesterday.
PAPAL FLAG TO WAVE FOR FIRST TIME ON OCEAN
ROME, June 13. The white and yellow papal flag Is to wave for the first time
on the ocean, according to a report in circulation here last night. Monslgnor Loca
telll, the Papal Internuncio at Buenos Aires, who has been transferred to Brussels,
where he will be Nuncio, desiring to Insure .his safety while at bea, has churtered
a steamship which will ba called the Nuncius, and will carry the papal colors as
those of a neutral power.
FIVE LOST WHEN SWEDISH SHIP HITS MINE
LONDON, June 13. A Reuter dispatch from Malmo, Sweden, saya that the
Swedish steamship Emmy has been destroyed by a mine off Falsterbo, and that one
of the crew was killed by the explosion and four others drowned.
VMUIDEN, Netherlands, June 13. fifteen of the crew ofvthe Norwegian steam
ship Bur, 1012 tons, have beeri landed here. They report that their ship was sunk
by a mine or a torpedo, "
NATIONAL BANK RESOURCES CONTINUE TO INCREASE .
WASHINGTON, June 13. Resources of national banks In the United States
continue to Increase rapidly. Their growth In the period between March 7 and
May 1 Comptroller Williams announces, was $256,000, pushing the total up to
mora than $1-1,000,000,000. Deposits in the time covered Increased 1341,000,000,
reaching a total of slightly more than $11,000,000,000. Circulation decreased
113 000 000, although on May 1 It still was larger by $13,000,000 than a year ago.
Reserves showed a reduction of $137,000,000, but a net Increase within the year
of $386,000,000. A year's Increase in total resources is given as slightly more than
$2,500,000j00.
FORMER MRS, WIDENER TO EXPLORE AMAZON
MONTREAL, Que., June 13. Dr. Hamilton Rice, South American explorer,
will return to the headwaters of the Amazon In the coming fall with bis wife,
formerly Mrs. Oeorge D. Wldener, of Philadelphia, The doctor told annntervlewer
he would start his fifth voyage of discovery from Key West, sailing In his yacht
1200 miles UP tho Amazon, continuing In launches and finishing in canoes. Mrs.
Rica says she has no misgivings as to her coming trip and looks forward with
great interest to the successful carrying out of the enterprise.
2500 RIFLES SENT TO ALLIES FROM EDDYSTONE
The first shipments of rifles for the Allies have left tho Remington Armsi Com
pany plant t Eddystoce. billed to New yor(c for shipment abroad. There were 2508
rifles in the nrat lot. Jt was the espectajion that by thU time the plant would
be turning out a carload. of rifles a 4y. but tbe dlmoulty in getting sets of $7M
ooh nWisary in yMe-making delayed th work. Work, on the plant ws bgwn
'PROSPERITY,
PEACE, PEP,' CRY
OF DEMOCRATS
Delegates Arrive at St. Louis
With a Whoop Set
Pessimism Aside
NO GRUDGES TO BE ; PAID
Wilson Backs Marshall and Ma
chinery Is Expected to
Run Smoothly
By JOHN EDWIN NEVIN
ST. LOUIS, Juno 13.--For President
Woodrow Wilson, of New Jersey.
For Vice President Thomas Riley Mar
Bhtitl, of Indiana.
This will bo the ticket named at the
Democratic National Convention, which aa
sembles at noon tomorrow. It Will ba
named with the consent of President Wil
son. And the Administration leaders on
the ground are confident that at the last
moment all of the opposition fostered here
for the paying off of minor political grudges
will be wiped out.
The suggestion of a ''Donnybrook" still Is
In the air. But the Administration II
determined that It shall not be pressed to
the point that rancor and bitterness shall
be engendered that may Imperil the party
success in Stales which now are conslderi-j
certainly Democratic, The Old QUard. In
whose ranks are numbered the leaders of
several of the big States. Is all powerful
to defeat Marshall" for renomlnatlon If It
so desires. It controls more than one-third
of the delegates to the convention, being
In almost exactly the same position that the
Wilson followers wco at the Baltimore
convention four years ago. But, following
a conversation over the long-distance tele
phone between the President. In Washing,
ton. nnd the representative's here of the
Indiana Democratic organization the word
vn passed along the line that tho President
has squarely lined up behind Vice PresU
dent Marshall nnd that he will ask that he
be nominated. This, 4t Is admitted, as
sures his success unless the Old Guard
wants a tight that will shatter the Demo
cratic structure to Its very centre.
SITUATION MUCH CLARIFIED.
The general situation here today waa
much clarified. The big delegations are
arriving on ,6very train. THey'Were full of
ginger nnd startedi proceeding rftth a'
whoop. The word had been passed along
the line that nil pessimism must be set
aside.
"Wilson and Marshall; isace and pros
perity; preparednes with thought, and a
welcome to all Americans under .the broad
donation that patriotism was 4 weicqm
duty and. not an achieved distinction,- was.
the topic passed out for consideration by
the spellbinders, Who. Will be given their
pfe'llnilnary tryouta. during the weary hours
tha mllst'fpass between, now and late-rj
Friday night when the lever tt to b thrown,'
open and th.6,' Democratic" 101i madh.fn
started on. Its flf-s race for: the blue- ribbo'nV
J3ROP ASSAULTS ON HUGHES.
The Democracy fully realises that the
coming campaign Is to be one. which will
eclipse all recent ' political records. ThA
suggestion, that the Democracy should make
assaults on Justice Hughes fpr leaving
the. bench to enter actyp politics has been
relegated to the discard. The attention df
Senator Owen nnd certain other .lenders
who favored taking such action and read
ing Into the platform a plank condemning
Justice Hughes for his. occeptahce of, the
Republican nomination, was called to the
fact that 12 years ago in this very town
the Democracy pressed into sen-Ice Alton
B. Parker, ' then Justice of the New York
Court of Appeals, a post which far judicial
discretion and legal demands Was. second
only to that of a Supreme Court commis
sion. And when called to act as the stand
ard bearer of Democracy, Justice Parkor,
the Republicans are ready to assert, accord
ing to the word reaching the Democratic;
steering committee, was the chief Justice of
the Umpire State's greatest tribunal,
FINAL pnoanAM.
The llnal program of procedure for the
convention assembling tomorrow was com
pleted today. It Is as .follows:
Wednesday noon Convention called to
order by William F. McQombs, chairman
of the Democratic National Committee-; call
for the convention read by J. Bruce Kremer,
acting secretary of the National Commit
tee ; opening prayer by the Ilev, J, W Lee j
temporary offlcers for the convention
named; speech of Temporary Chairman
Martin II. Glynn, former Governor of New
York; naming of committees; recess until
Thursday at noon.
Thursday noon Opening prayer by the
Rev. J, J, Glennon, Archbishop of St, Louis I
Credentials Committee reports and perma
nent organization completed with United
States Senator Ollle James as permahent
chairman; rules completed and adjourn
ment until Friday at 10 a. im
Friday Prayer by the Itev. W. Q, iar
desty. chaplain of. Mlsslourl Senate; re
port of platform ; recess until 8 o'clock when
prayer by Rabbi Leon Harrlsoh will pre
cede commencement of nominations, which
are expected to be completed soon after mid
night. Saturday noon National Committee
meets, organizes and elects chairman and
arranges for opening of campaign.
Today was chiefly one of conferences.
Questions of-" how to raise a- campaign
fund ; whom should be selected to manage
the campaign; whether the president
should get into the running and stump
the country or stay at horn? and receive
delegations, thus emulating the example
of the late President MClpley, were uwle
discussion.
GIRL HELD IN TURKEY
ARRIVES IN NEW YORK
Miss Mary Silliman, Captive for
Several Months, Safe on
U. S; Soil
NEW YORK, June 13. Miss Mary glllt
man, the American teacher held . captive
In Turkey for several months on the charge
of espionage, reached New York today. r
board the Holland-America liner Uyndanj.
She had s. thrilling experience whll uul?
arrest and narrowly escaped death.
The Ryndam was taken Into Kirkwall,
Scotland, by British, warships and her mail
were seized-
'' II II. L L J , Jl U I ,
Four Injured When ,-tq Uget
TAMAQUA. Pa.. Jnr IS Vmr &.
sons, were, injured, w perfcAp laUlij.
when the autwaoMl driven by Qwl
Lent upset n?r here MUe ywUruy - Jg
Lent wiiu taken to u. I'vtUvtUo bawttet,
whr hsr condition 1 said, to B BtaL
Hjj twiiBttinl, Jamfat Wttttac fcn mm
-W"t-te Esriaii&ly lajurW,
RmMmmm
Jfelll j-37 t J
&?el$l
4 jfjft'MiA flk?.aTC5L
mmmmmmm
,m
SB
