Mr. Jiggs
I he Irrepressible Jiggs, Has His
Troubles This Morning
Fox's Comics
In The Timcs-Dispatch. Amuse
Young and Old Eccry Day
GGTtb YEAR RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 1916. ?FOURTEEN PAGES. ~ FAIR ' PRICE. TWO CENTS.
OF ANTI-AMERICAN'
FEELINGINMEXICO
War Department Orders
1,500 More Regulars
to Border.
POSSIBILITY OF ATTACK
ON PERSHING IS FEARED
Administration Officials Make No
; f Attempt to Disguise Their
Uneasiness.
NEW RAIDS IX LARFDO RFC ION
Attention of Dp Facto Government
Called to Increased Frequency
of Out breaks.
"WASHINGTON, Juno 12.?Coincident
v ith contlnuinp reports from consuls
r.'l over Northern 'Mexico telling of the
f r;?i.i?l (spread of anti-American feeling,
t h* War Department to-day ordered
I j'O additional regular troops to the
border. To-night administration of
* Mai? made no attempt to dispuiBe
*h?;Ir uneasiness, and it was officially
n dm it ted thai there is growing alarm
< \-(?r what the agitation may produce.
?i !?. d th<- possibility of an attack on
';<-nc-r.'?! Pershir.n's expedition.
No rase of attack on the persons "t
American residents in Mexico hap been
reported, although ?her?; have h?*en
r..... ,.r fA?< attacks on vacant ?v>ti
s 'ila? e? and r.rhrr American property
Part ?>f th<- in- rOaslnir apprehension
here li- due to the renewed raids m
t . I .a re<]>> region. Several reports
?','leulinsr with >h<- situation there have
received Official* declined to reveal
< ' tails, but seemed inclined to believe
<? serious purpose was behind the
bandit raid on the Coleman ranch
Three raiders were killed and three
captured, one report said. adding that
they attempted to burn a railroad
bridge near 1-aredn, but failed
new rum i: hi-:xt to noitnr.it
TO KlLli IX CAP IX t;t'AItlJ?
The new fore- s?snt to Join General
Funston's border patrol. Secretary
Itaker said, was to fill in i;a;>s in the
(.'ur.rds such as that near L.f?red? It
was composed of ten companies of
Coast Artillery and a battalion of en
gineers. The artillerymen will be
withdrawn from fortifications between
Portland. Me. and Sandy Hook, and
the engineers from barracks In 'his
city. The secretary said there was no
present intention of calling out addi
tional National Guard regiments for
border duty.
General Mann, command'.rip ut
Laredo, reported to-day that a patrol
of three cavalrymen was fired on dur
ing the night of June If', near the
town of Hachita. and Private \V 1.
Saunders. Troop K. Twelfth Cavalry,
slightly wounded. Two mounted Mexi
??a:te> who did the tiring escaped
A mesfane from Captain Hurrr??e.
eernmatiduiK the battleship Nebraska,
at Vera Cruz, said there was considera
ble unrest in that region, due. appar
rntlv. '.<? the currency situation. There,
were no evidences of unfriendly feel
ings toward Americans, the. message
said.
The State Department, through Spe
cl.nl Agent Rodpers. at Meixco City, has
called the attention of the de facto
prernment to the anti-American out
breaks which for nearly two weeks
fc.ve heen spreading steadily. Many
towns have held mass-meetings anil
protested against the continued pres
e.n.-e of American troops Sn Mexico. In
two or three instances American prop
erty has been attacked, but no threats
against lives o? Americana have been
reported.
IlKl'onTS Tt.RXED OVER
TO CARRANZA OFFICIALS
, The reports of consuls telling of the
<* citation were turned over to the
Carranza officials more as a matter^of
lrformation than as representations.
(Where his regular troops are In con
trol, apparently General Carranza ha.
earnestly tried in most cases to pre
vent the holding of protest meetings,
and in some places contemplated meet
ings and parades have been prevented.)
There are Instances, however, where
the troops appear to have stood Idly j
y.y while the agitators stirred up antag
onlsm against the United States.
Officials have been unable, to deter
r.iine the Inspiration behind the sud '
flen outbreak of anti-American feeling,]
c,r to estimate the ability of General j
Carranza to protect American lives and
property. They feel that the real dan-|
per lies in the possible action of lrregu- |
lar forces, whose commanders yield j
only doubtful allegiance, to Carranza.
Because of economic conditions in
'Mexico, officials feel that the possibility
of serious trouble is enhanced. The
currency situation is acute, and the
people are restless and easily stirrer j
to outbreaks. Several consular agents!
have frankly declared in their reports;
that any eventuality might be expected!
if the agitation continued.
Secretary Lansing still is at work on I
his reply to the Carranza note demand'^
in? withdrawal of American forces, bu !
It may not be sent for a week or ter?
days.
'iPI'KOXniATKLV l.OOO .MUX
IN PROVISIONAL HKGINKXI |
]
The Coast Artillery ordered to the!
border to-day Includes two companies;
from Portland. Me.; two from Boston j
two from Narragansett Bay, two fron I
I.ong Island, one from Eastern Netf'
Tork. one from Southern New YorV
and one from Sandy Hook. Approxi
mately 1,000 men will compose this pro
visional Infantry regiment. The engi
neer battalion, about 500 strong, is
Composed of Companies A. B, C and D.
The Carranza troops have repulsed
the new rebel movement In thej
Tchuantepec region, according to to-1
day's advices. State Department re- j
ports indicate that Carranza's control j
" (Continued~on~Third Page.) J
Russians in Second Week of
Drive Against Teu
tonic Allies.
NEARING CZERNOWITZ,
CAPITAL OF BUKOWINA
Forced to Give Ground Before
Vigorous Counterattacks
Qnly at One Point.
HOLD OVER 114,000 PRISONERS
1 Germans Repulsed With Serious
Losses in Attacks North
east of Verdun.
H??vv fighting Is In progrrFs over
virtually the entire eastern front from
the CJulf of Riga to Bukowlna. a. die
taries of between COO and 700 miles.
: From Riga to the Jaslolda River,
| northwest of the Prlpet marsh region.
I th* Germans have taken the offensive
j against the Russians, probably In an
| effort to divert the attention of the
j Russians, who are In the second week
i of their drive against the Austro
J Hungarians and Germans from th?s
, Pripet marshes southward to Buko
. vvlna.
On all sectors of the northern line
! the Russians have successfully wlth
i stood the German onslaughts and
driven the attacking forces back. They
have even gained ground against them
north of the Tyrul marsh, southwest
; of Riga, says Petrograd.
FRESH ADVANCES REPORTED
IIV ni'SSlAX WAR OFFICE
In Southwest Russia, in the region
i of Lutsk, fresh advances against the
Austro-Hungarlana arc- reported by the
Russian War <"?rtlce, as likewise Is the
| case across the border through East
Galicla In the southern part of this
? region th? Russians are n^arlng Czer
j nowitz, th?? capital of the Austria*;
1 crown land of Bukowina. Although the
Austrlarss at numerous points are vlg.
orously counterattacking, the only
1 place tho Russians hs,v<? been forced
to givr trround before them was near
. Bodullntze. north of Buczacz In Ga
licia. where the Austri Lns were re.-en
forced by German troops The Rus
? lans captured here by the Teutonic
1 allu> exceeded :,:t0o Th* total of men
! tiikfn prisoner by the Ru*sian9 since
tl>??ir offensive t>>ga? has grown to
more than .
Xc.jf heasr of \>rd:n the Germans,
with heavy effectives, have thrown suc
c.e>?lve attneks against the French po
! sitions north of Thiaumont, but all the
assaults were repulsed wSUi serious
losses. Heavy bombardment by the
Germans In this region extended from
Thiaumont eastward to the west and
south of For; Vaux ar.d to the French
second-line positions of Fort Souvllie
;?n*3 Fort Ta'itrmcs. .tl?out three miles
; northeast of Verdun.
On the remainder of the front in
France and Belgium there have been
only artillery duels and sapping oper
ations. except in Champagne, where
Berlin reports the penetration of
French positions and the capture of
more than 100 men and four machine
guns.
ITALIANS CONTINUING TO
DRIVE AUSTRIAN'S DACK
South and southeast of Trent the
Italians are continuing to drive back
1 the Austrlans. according to Rome.
Gains have been made by the Italians
in the Arsa Valley and the Pasuhio
j sector, along the Posina-Aatlco line and
1 southwest of Asiago. Farther north,
' in the Sugana Valley, fresh progress
! toward the Maso Torrent is reported
for King Victor Emmanuel's men,
j who repelled two counterattacks near
Scurelle. In the Lagarlna Valley the
?Austrlans are heavily bombarding the
(Italians on Conl-Sugana.
A Russian cavalry force of 1.000 men
operating between the Caucasus and
! Mesopotamia fronts has been annihil
i ated by the. Turks, who also captured
ia large amount of war material, accord- '
1 Ing to Constantinople. On tlie remain- |
der of the front in Asiatic Turkey there'
is no change in the situation.
The massing of important Bulgarian 1
troop movements Is believed to be con
nected with the closing of the Bulgar
1 Roumanian frontier to passenger and
merchandise traffic, says an unofficial
| dispatch from Bukharest.
RUSSIANS MAY ALREADY
HAVE OCCUPIED CZERNOWITZ
PETROGRAD. June 12 (via Lon- j
don).?The number of Austrlans cap- I
tured by the Russians in the new 1
offensive movement has been increased j
to more than 114,000. In many sectors i
of the front, the official statement to
"day says, the Russians are still pursuing)
1 defeated Austrians.
The statement says Russian troops'
yesterday approached the oulsklrts of I
Czernowltz, the capital of Bukowina.'
and that they attacked the brldgohead
at Zalescyky, which Is thirty miles
northwest of Czernowltz.
An unofficial report in circulation |
here that the Russians have occupied
Czernowltz has been given color by tho :
capture of Dobronovtze, a commanding!
point ten miles to tho northeast.
The Russian line extends to Okna.
From both these points good roads'
lead direct to Czernowit*:, and, accord
ing to military authorities, they are!
the only points in this direction capa
ble of defense.
A telegram received from Bukharest,
Roumania, says the Austrian army had J
evacuated Czernowltz and moved to a !
line four miles to tho west.
The continued successes of the Rus
sians recorded in to-day's offlcial com
munication are the more surprising, as I
the Austrians. ;*er the first shock of
the Russian advunce, appeared.to have
(Continued on Third Page.)
Democracy's Mount and Rider for Presidential Race
HUD MEN MAY END
PARLEYS WITH COMPANIES
i Still Far From Agreement oil Ques
j * tions of Wages and Horn's
of Work.
i
; REJECT "CONTINGENT" OFFER
j If Conference Braaks To-I>ay, Result i
! Will Be Reported Back to Em
ployees, and Vote on General J
Strike Will Be Taken.
XEW YORK, June 12.?Repre.senta-i
tives of the chief railroads of thr j
United States and of the unions of!
| railroad employees were far from an i
agreement on questions of wages and
hours of work when an adjournment
[ of their conference was taken late to
day. Upon the dotailed explanation to
morrow of the railroads of their coun
j ter or "contingent" proposition, it was
predicted by A. B. Garretson, president
| of the Order of Railway Conductors,
1 would depend the future attitude of the
railroad men, even to the point of or
dering a strike vote among the 3ri0,00f?
members of the unions.
Mr. Garretson's prediction was
prompted by the fact that during the
day the conference came suddenly to
a halt when the railroads' "contingent"
proposition, tentatively erranting the
demanded eight-hour day, but refusing i
double compensation for double service,
was rejected.
"We. have already rejected the rail
roads' proposition, name it what you
will," said President Garretson. "We
are now engaged In getting It read in
to the record in detail. There does not
seem to be anything else to discuss
when the railro.tds finish to-morrow.
If the railroads do not back down from
their position that their proposition
must be based on their 'yardstick'
method, then there Ib no further neces
sity for continuing the conference."
STHIKR AVII/1, BIC CALLKD
UNLESS DEMANDS Alt IS GRANTED
Mr. Garretson and the other brother
hood leaders stated that If the con
ference breaks u* to-morrow, they
will report back t*? the men and a
vote on the . general strike will be
taken. Then they will return to the
railroads ani^ renew their demands. Tf
(Continued on Third Page.)
Former Supreme Court .Justice Re-1
Kuterfi Politics Apparently With
Abundant Zest. ?
KEEPS OPEN* HOUSE ALL DAY
Establishes Temporary Headquarters
at New York Hotel and Receives
Scores of Persons?Murkcd Change
in Hearing Since lie Quit Bench.
NEW YORK; June 12.?Charles F
Hughes re-ented politics to-day, ap
parently with abundant asst. He
j
reached this city early in the day,
established temporary headquarters at
an uptown hotel and virtually held
open house until nearly midnight.
Scores of persons on various missions
flocked to his roohis, mostly men who
had known him when he was cam
paigning for Governor of New York.
There also were several party leaders
among hia callers.
Mr. Hughes expects to issue no state
ment until he is formally notified of
his nomination. The subcommittee to
confer with him as to fixing a date for
the ceremony probably will wait on him
In a few days, and until then, it is I
understood, he will allow his telegram
to Chairman Harding, of the Republi
can National Convention, to stand as
his declaration of principles.
Although the nominee's plans are
still unsettled, it is likely that, he will
remain in New York until June 20 or
21, when he expects to attend a re
union of the class of 'SI of Brown
University and commencement exer
cises at Providence, U. I. By that time,
it is believed, his plans will bo more
settled.
To those who knew the nominee as a
Supreme Court Justice there was a
marked change in his bearing to-day.
His air of reserve apparently left him
with the robes of his offlce. His eye
sparkled with enjoyment, he had a
hearty hand grasp and a smile for
every man he met, and seemed enthusi
astic in his welcome of old friends who
came to see him after Intervals. of j
years.
They cami In crowds. One man. an
old schoolmate, "who used to call him.
(Continued on Second Page.)
LEADERS FRAMING IS50ES
ON WHICH TO WAGE FIGHT
Democratic Appeal Expected to Cen?
ter Aroniul Slogan "Peace
and Prosperity,"
ROTH TIMELY AND EFFECTIVE
Probable Division of Progressive Fol
lowing Among Two Old Parties in
Case of its Disintegration Raises
Interesting Question.
IIY (."If A HI-ICS K. HASHKOOK.
ST. LOUIS. MO., Juno 12.?Party '
leaders from every section of th* coun
try are already assembling in this city
to participate in the renomination of
Woodrow W.ilson and Thomas R. Mar
shall, anil in the construction of a
platform on which this ticket will i
inake its case before the country.
In the absence of any serious fight
over either the head or the second i
place on the ticket, most of the atten
tion of the Democratic managers is
engaged In the formulation of policies
and the presentation of the issue upon
which the campaign is to be waged.
It now seems certain that the Demo
cratic appeal will center around tha
slogan "peace and prosperity." Such
a slogan embodies the whole of Presi
dent Wilson's performances In the
White House. It recounts the story of
his successful handling of our foreign
policies, on the one hand, and of his
carrying out of his domestic program
on the other.
PLATFORM OX TIIICSK I.INKS
T1MEI.V AM) EFFECTIVE
A platform built upon those lines
will he both timely and effective. It
will be timely because this country is
enjoying all the blessings of peace at
all times, when most of the world ls?
nt war, and effective because the pros
perity which the whole country has a
share in, must necessarily prove a
political advantage to the party which
has vouchsafed it.
Tho arriving Democrats, howovor, do
not underestimate the strength which
Mr. Hughes will have, if Colonel
Roosevelt completes tho betrayal of
the. Progressive party by declining to
run as its candidate. The dissolution,
of this party will result In a straight
out Democratic-Republican light, and
(Continued on Second-PageT) '
DANGEROUS EXPERIMENT
Stone Attacks Republicans for In
vading Supreme Court to Get
Presidential Candidate.
CRITICIZES THEIR PLATFORM
Calls It "Remarkable Fulminatlon," i
With One-Half Legislation It De- j
mands Alre*ady Enacted and Other)
Half Now Jleinp Worked Out.
ST. LOUIS. MO.. June 12.?Senator;
! Stone, who is to be chairman of the
; i
j resolutions committee of the Demo- |
! era tie convention. Issued a statement ;
to-day calling the Republican plat- '
i form drafted in Chicago a "remarkable 1
! fulminatlon," with oue-half the legis-1
i l.itiuii it demanded already enacted. ;
| and the other half now being worked ;
' out by the Democratic party.
j Senator Stone said that he considered
j Mr. Hughes a man of ability and char
i aeter, but looked upon his nomination
while he was on the bench as full of
menace, and danger.
"My objection to the nomination. of ,
I Mr. Hughes." said the Senator's state
j ment, "lies in the. fact that I regard
It as bad in every way and vicious for
a great political party, hard-pressed
and on its uppers, to Invade the Su
preme C'ourt of the United States and
take down from that bench one of it*
Justices to make him a party candi
date for a political ofllco to meet and
serve a party exigency. The experl- \
i ment is full of menace and danger.
Hereafter it is more than probable that
men appointed to the Supreme Oourt
will begin to regard It. not as the '
honorable and final goal of their am
bition. but as a stepping-stone to what
they will, as Mr. Hughes does, regard
as a political advancement beyond the'
Judicial position they hold.
TKNDKNCY TO l'M)KUtlI\K
CO.VFIIJKXCK IV COURT
"In that virtw of things, it will fol- ;
low that the decisions of Judges of i
that great trlbun. . will become more
or less tho subject of suspicion. Peo. ;
plo will begin to surmise whether de
cisions on ciue*tions of wide or gen
eral interest have behind them some
sinister political reason. The ten- i
dcncy will he to undermine public, con- j
(Continued on Sccond Page.) I
V x
v . ? -
LATEST HOVE 10
BEAT MARSHALL
Morgenthau and Schiff Want
Stronger Man Than Pres
ent Vice-President.
INCUMBENT, HOWEVER.
WILL BE RENOMINATED
Will Be No Hitch in Plan to
Name Administration Ticket,
Says McCombs.
GOMPERS TO SUGGEST PliAXKS
Bryan Docs Not. Expert to Precipi
tate Any Fight on Party
Platform.
ST. L.OUIS, .Tune 12.?Ante-convention
discussion centered largely on moves
to defeat pinna for the renomination of
Vice-President Marshall and put a new
man on the ticket with President Wil
son. As the. number of delegates grew
hourly, greater boomlets for various
favorite sons appeared on the surface
to rise and fall with the tide of talk.
The movement took -well-defined form
and Hubatance when Henry Morgenthau'
who recently pave up his post as am
basr.ador to Turkey, that he might
engage in the work of re-election of
President Wilson, announced that a
stronger man than Mr. Marshall should
he named and brought forward Secre
tary of War Baker to run with Presi
dent AVllson.
Xews that Mr. Morgenthau was boom
ing Secretary Baker created something
mOre than mild discussion, for it was
pointed out that Mr. Morgenthau had
been close to tho administration, and
that it might Indicate that the naming
of Mr. Baker would not be unaccepta
ble. Mr. Morgenthau hastened, how
ever. to make it clear thai he was
urging Mr. Baker^gomtnation on his
own responsibility and initiative, solely
with the desire of naming the strongest
possible candidate for the office.
National Chairman McCombs said to
night that he had received a telegram
from Jacob Schiff, the New York
hanker, asking that a stronger candi
date tfian Mr. Marshall he named, and
Mr. Morgenthau also stated that he
had received a letter from Mr. Schiff
containing a similar request.
VOTE FOR MARSHAIX WII.I. BE
practicai.lv rvAXiMors
Talk that Secretary Baker's name
would be presented as a candidate for
Vice-President caused a rush of dele
gates to national committeemen and
other party leaders to know if there
had been any change in the plans to
rename Mr. Marshall. The Information
was quickly given that "noses had been
counted" long ago. and that, while one
or two names other than Mr. Marshall's
might be. heard on the convention floor,
the. vote for him would be practically
unanimous If there is not a nomina
tion by acclamation.
"There wilt be no hitch In the. plan
to name the administration ticket" said
Mr. McCombs to-night.
Booms for new candidates for Vice
President still appeared hourly, the last
one to come to notice to-night being
one for Judge A. M. Jackson, of Win
field, Kans. The delegation from
Kansas is to arrive to-morrow.
The Nebraska delegation is instruct
ed as a unit for Governor' John H.
Morehead for the vice-presidency, but
it was reported to-night that when
Oovernor Morehead reaches St. Louis
to-morrow he will agree to renounce
his candidacy conditioned upon the
withdrawal of the candidacy of Roger
Sullivan, of Illinois. As Mr. Sullivan
has never seriously been a candidate
for Vice-President, his name being
brought forward by Illinois frieinds
simply with the desire to pay the State
leader a compliment, it appeared to
leaders to-night an agreement with
Governor Morehead could be reached.
A. Mitchell Palmer arrived to-day
with part of the Pennsylvania delega
tion. and promptly declared that all
were for Marshall. Palmer said he
made the announcement to help "kill
ofT the little boomlets."
Illl VAN Wll.fi NOT ST A HT
ANY Klti(IT ON PI.ATFORM,
William J. Bryan does not expect to
precipitate any rtshi oiu the party plat
form That was the information
brought here to-night by a close friend
of the former Secretary of State, who
added that Mr. Bryan might not, after
all. co before the resolutions commit
tee. and that he would not. make any
effort to obtain a proxy that would
scat him on the convention floor. Mr.
Bryan is expected here late to-nisrht or
to-morrow, when Senator Ollie James.
President Wilson's choice for perma
nent chairman Secretary of ^ .?r
Baker and other notable political lead
ers are due to arrive.
Senator Stone, who 13 to be the chair
man of the committee on resolutions,
issued a statement to-day In which he
characterized' the nomination of Justice
Hughes by the Republican party as tn
every way bad and vicious.
Senator Stone's pronouncement was
generally taken to mean here by lead
ers that the Democratic party would
probably make a party issue against
Justice Hughes In view of his nomi
nation to the presidency while on the
Supreme Court bencti. Oth^r leaders,
however, were not inclined to press
this issue, recalling that the party
drafted Alton 11. Parker, when he was
chief judge of the New York Court of
Appeals.
Samuel dompers. president of the
American Federation of Labor, with
.?>th*r labor leaders, to-day brought
fourteen planks which they will seek
to havo Incorporated In the party plat
form.
The national committee held a ***?
sion ns a preliminary to the opening
of the convention on Wednesday, and
