THE ARIZONA RE PUBLICAN
At" :""SS5f"iDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, JUNE 13, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 2G
FERSHIHGFQRGESH
ETROWS ORDERED
Rushes Reenters Politics With Apparent Zest
ins
L
IF
PHUT! IK
Establishes Temporary
Headquarters In Gotham
Where During Day He
Meets Scores of Friends
and Politicians J
COLONEL TALKS WITH
GARFIELD AND LEWIS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OYSTER BAY, June 12. Colonel Theodore Roosevelt was visited at his
home at Sagamore Hill today by James R. Garfield and Dean Wm. Draper
Lewis. According to his secretary John W. McGrath, who returned from
Chicago, the Colonel "had a full and frank discussion," with Mr. Garfield
and Dean Lewis "as to wbat he intends to say" with regard to the po
litical situation and "the time he should say it.'' v
Neither of the visitors would make any statement after their interview
with Colonel Roosevelt. Both have been prominent in progressive party
politics. n
Colonel Roosevelt again secluded himself in his home today, except for a
couple of hours when he went for a horseback ride with Mrs. Roosevelt. A
newspaper correspondent who met the colonel in the road asked if there
was anything he cared to say, but the former president turned to him after
a sharp reply in the negative.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NFAV YORK, June 12. Charles
K. Hughes re-entered politics to
day apparently with abundant
zest. He reached this city early
in the dart and established tem
porary headquarters at an up
town hotel and held open house
until nearly midnight. Scores of
persons flocked to his rooms,
mostly men who had known him
back in the days when he was
campaigning for governor of New
York. There also were several
party leaders among his callers.
Mr. Hughes issued no statement
today and expects to issue none
until he is formally notified of his
nomination. The sub-committee
to confer with him as to fixing a
date for the ceremony probably
will wait on him in a few days. '
Although the nominee's plans
still are unsettled, it is likely he
will remain in New York until
Jure 20, when he expects to at-
tend reunion of the clans of '81
of Brown University at Provi
dence R. I. He probably will re
main there for the commence
ment exercises.
To th-jse who knew the nominee as
a supreme court justice there was a
marked change- in his bearing today.
His t.ir of studious reserve apparently
left him with the robes of his office !
He had a hearty handgrasp and a
smile for every man he met and
seemid enthusiastic in his welcome of
old friends, who came to see him after
Intervals of years. These came in
crowds. A Texas republican leader, J.
E. Lutz of Vernon, trailed him here
from Washington, merely to shake
lian!s -ind say "Texas will he with
you."
Amon; those who called' were Henry
W. Taft, f.tste chairman Tanner of
New York, George W. Wiekersham
who quickly denied a report that he
had been to enlist Col. Roosevelt's aid
In the campaign;- Herbert Parsons, na
tional eommiitetmar! for New York;
Samuel Koenig, New York, republican
leader: 8. S. McClure, and many other
local leaders in the nominee's home
state of New York. '
Although felicitations were numer
ous, there also was serious considera
tion (f campaign plans. The chief af
fairs requiring the nominee's Imme
diate attention are the selection of a
national chairman, the opening of
headquarters and deciding on a sum
mer headquarters for himself.
Party leaders among his callers seem
to agree that the campaign will b
started early. Mr. Parsons said that
in his opinion the campaign already
was on.
"It started Saturd :iv." he nlrl
"when Mr. Hughes sent his telegram
to Chairman Harding" ' j
The campaign in New York city is
to begin this week, Mr. Koenig said, i
I low Ihe progressives wilt vote-
IBS GATHERING IN ST. LOUIS
TS ARE BUSY
BAmESflREON
FROM H0W1
-
PRESIDENT WILSON
REACHES NEW YORK
Would Defeat
Marshall for
Renomination
Hope is High in
Suffrage Circles
For their Plank
i
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. LOUIS, June 12. Pre-conven-tion
discussions centered largely 'to
day on moves and suggestions to de
feat
Vice
new man on the ticket with ITesi
dent Wilson. As the number of dele-
republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. LOUIS. June 12. Hope was
high in suffrage circles tonight that
plans for the renomination of tne democratic national convention will
I'resident Marshall and put a incorporate an equal rights plank of
some form in its platform.
Suffragists of all factions were busy
TO RIGA GULF
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Heavy fighting is in progress over
the entire eastern front from the GuH
of Riga to Bukowina, a distance of
between 000 and 700 miles. From Riga
to the Jasiolda river, northwest of
the Pripet marsh region, the Germans
have taken the offensive against the
Russians, pro! ably in an effort to
divert the attention of the Russians
who arc in the second week of their
driie against the Austrians and Ger
mans from the Pripet marches south
ward to Bukowina.
On all sectors of the northern line !
the Russians have successfully with-,
stood the German onslaughts and
driven back the attacking forces.
They have even gained ground against
them north of the. Tirul marsh, south
west of Ris;a says Petrograd.
In southwest Russia, in the region
of Lutsk, fresh advances against the
Austrians are reported by the Rus
sian war officers, as likewise is the
case across the border through east
Caluia. In the southern part of this
region the "Russians are nearing Czer
nowitz, the capital of the Austrian
crown land of Bukowina.
Although the Austrians at numerous
points are igorously counter attack
ing, the only place that' Russians have
been forced to give ground was near
Bobulintzc, north of Buezacz in Ga
lieia, where the- Austrians were rein
forced bv German troops. The Rus
sians captured here by the Teutons
exceeded l,.iUU. The total of men
I NEW YORK, June 12 President
Wilson arrived here from Wash- j
I instoi, at 10:15 tonight. The
Mayflower anchored in the Hud-
I son river off New York tonight
iind early tomorrow morning will
I start for Westr Foint, where the
i president is to address the grad-
I nates of the military academy to-
morrow.
. , : 0
1
OF
GIRL IS CALLED
TO THE
T
ANTI-AMERICAN FEELING SPREADS
AND ADMINISTRATION IKES
gates to the democratic national con
vention grew hourly greater,, boom-j today working among the more widely
lets for various favorite sons ap-. known democrats, and tonight with
Opnred Itontntivo nrmne-ement; made for n i
A move to defeat Vice President hearine- of their demands, nrobablv on ! takp" prisoners by the Russians since
Marshall for re-nomination took well Wednesday, they were in an optimistic
defined form and substance when mood. They noted with interest the
Henry Morgenthau, who recently gave attention democrats have paid to the
up his post as Ambassador to Turkey directions of the republican platform
that he might engage in the work of of suffrage and deela.-r that the demo-re-electing
President Wilson, an-! cratic party no longer can afford to
nounced that a "stronger man" than ignore that issue. A suffrage plank
their offensive began has grown to
more than 114.000.
Northeast of Verdun the Germans
have thrown successive attacks
asainst the French positions north of
Thiaumont but all the assaults were
repulsed with serious losses. The
Marshall should be named and
brought forward, Secretary of War
Baker to run with President Wilson.
It was pointed out that Mr. Mor.
genthau had been close to the admin
istration and that it might indicate
that the naming of Mr. Baker would
not be unacceptable.
will not he inserted without a fight, heavy bombardment by the Germans
however, also led by women.
Mrs. Arthur Podge, of New York,
leader of anti-suffragist forces, is here
to make a determined stand against
any favorable mention of equal rights
in the platform. National Chairman
j McCombs said tonight that she prob
in this region extended from Thiau
i mont eastward to the west and south
i of Fort Vaux and to the French se
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WAUKEGAN, 111., June. 12. The
most important witnesses in the Orpet
case, unless the defendant takes the
stand himself, took the stand today.
She was Josephine Davis, chum of
Marion Iambert, the school girl for
whose alleged murder Will H. Orpet,
University of Wisconsin student is on
trial here.
Miss Davis, a high school girl,
talked simply, directly, and with
studied precision, both as to
expression.
"When did you first meet Marion
Lambert?" asked State's Attorney
Ralph Dady. ' '
"When I was in the eighth grade,"
she replied. .
She did not become an intimate of
Marion until "third year, high school,"
she explained again.
Miss Davis had been regarded as
peculiarly a state's witness, and she
was called to the stand by Mr. Dady,
but it developed that for the last six
weeks she had been living with friends
in Chicago and had declined to see
him. The reason did not appear.
She was questioned on direct ex- j
animation, by David R. Joslyn, who is
assisting Mr. Dady. James H. Wilker
son, chief counsel for the defense,
complained to the court of what he
called Joslyn's "harshness to the girl,"
NO ATTEMPT TO RIDE UNEASINESS
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, June 12. With 1500 additional
regular troops ordered to the Mexican border tonight
and reports of the rapid spread of anti-American feeling
continuing to pour in from consuls all over northern
Mexico, administration officials made no attempt to dis
guise their uneasiness. It was officially admitted that
there is a growing alarm over what the agitation may
produce and the possibility of an attack on General
Pershing's expedition.
Part of the increased apprehension here is due to the
renewed raids in the Laredo region. Several reports
dealing with the situation there have been received. Of
ficials declined to reveal details; but they gave the im
pression of having reason to believe a serious purpose
was behind the bandit raid on the Coleman ranch. Three
raiders were killed and three injured one report today
said, adding that they attempted to burn a railroad
" bridge near Laredo, but failed.
The new force sent to join General '
Funston's border patrol. Secretary I contemplated meetings and parades
Baker said, was to fill in gaps in the! have been prevented. There are in-
Mr. Moreenthau hastened, however. : ably would be given trie same amount
to make it clear that he was urgini ' "me to argue against suffrage as
Mr. Baker's nomination on his own j suffragettes will have for espousing
responsibility and initiative. Ist- Tne National American Woman
National Chairman McCombs said 'Suffrage association and the Con
tonight he had received a telegram ! Sessional Union, and its auxiliary, the
from Jacob Schiff, the New York j woman', party, will divide the time
banker, asking that a stronger candi- e0-ually for the plank,
date than Mr. Marshall be named and I The two oIdt r ora"
Mr. Morgenthau also stated that he,tio"s a now driving for different
had a letter from Schiff also re-;p"df; The Nat.onals want only a fay
questing that another than Mr. Mar-'0 declaration for miff rase in the
IPIUILOI III, VV II11C IIIC bltllPH txuw hit:
woman's party desire immediate action
,by congress on the.-Susan B. Anthony
for vice president caused a rush of , , ' -,,
Nationals were ela-cj tonight to re-
ond line positions of Fort Souville and I ana Rave olner eviuence or aesinng to
Fort Ta van nes. ahout three miles ! Protect the witness.
shall be put on the ticket.
Talk that Secretary Baker's name
would be presented as a candidate
delegates to National committeemen
and other party leaders to know if
there had been any change in the
plans to re-name Mr. Marshall. The
Information was quickly given that
"Noses had been counted long ago,"
and that while one or two names
other than Marshall's might be heard
on the convention floor, the vote for
hirn would be virtually unanimous, if
there is not a nomination by accla
mation.
"There will be no hitch in the plan
r si trcii-t rt met t Vin riPAaant fantmrt tin
V, r . "oosevelt- will support ticket," said National Chairman Mc
Mr. Hughes; whether the colonel will , Combs tonight, when asked about
take the stump for him; to what ex- j possibilities of opposition to Mr. Mar
tent failure of the progressives to sup- I 8nall. National Committeeman Mack
port Hughes would effect the election 0f New York, also declared that the
,hese and kindred topics were the talk of upsetting the plan to rename
subject of much speculation on tho Mr. Marshall was "silly and absurd."
part of the- republican leaders. The ! Just before departing from Wash
opinion prevailed that these questions Ington, forest. Louis, Secretary Baker
might be answered with difficulty. . announced he was for Marshall and
Because of the press of political that the mention of his own name
conference Mr. Hughes stated late to- j was merely "friendly enterprise." He
day that he would be unable to take i, expected to stop all mention of his
'V, . , Preparedness parade at j name when he reaches this city late
Washington on Wednesday. The re- j tomorrow.
publican nominee had planned to I Booms for new candidates for vice
rnnrcn m ine parade which will be led ; president still appeared hourly, the
'louf rna ti rrma" in n it nnlf.Vi lis.
ing one for Judge A. M. Jackson, of
Winfield, Kansas.
The Nebraska delegation
by President Wilson,
o
NOT FOR COMPROMISE
is in-
ceive a telegram from Senator Borah,
a drafter of the republican platform,
declaring that document was intended
to endorse equal suffrage unqualifiedly.
No efforts will be spared to get Sen
ator Borah's telegram before the
platform makers.
The telegram received by Mrs. Carrie
j Chapman Catt, president of the Na
tionals, iouows;
"Suffrage plank or the republican
platform is an unqualified indorsement
of woman suffrage. It unmistakably
favors the extension of suffrage to
women and favors it as a matter of
Justice. This is not subject to possible
ambiguity. The only question left
open Is that of the method of securing
it. The plank recognizes the right of
eacJi, state to settle the question itself,
but ft does not declare against the tak
ing away of that right. It was my
view at the time of the adoption of the
amendment in the committee and still
is my view that upon the question of
the federal amendment the plank was
silent and neither rejected nor en(
dorsed It."
This Is the plank which the National
association will ask the democrats to
insert In their platfort.ii
"Believing that governments derive
their vast powers from the consent of
the governed, we acknowledge the right
northeast of Verdun. v
On the remainder of the front in
France and Belgium there have been
only artillery duels and sapping oper-
ations., except in Champagne, where
Berlin reports the penetration of
French positions and the capture of
more than loo men and four machine
guns.
South and southeast of Trent, the
Italians are continuing to drive b:tck
th Austrians. according to Rome.
Cains have been made by the Italians
in the Arsa vailey and the Pasubio
sector along the Posina-Astico line
and southwest of A.siago. Farther
north in the Sugana valley fresh prog
ress toward the Maso torrent is re- (
corded - for King Victor Emmanuel's j
men, who repelled to counter attacks
near Scurtlle. In the I.agarina valley
the Austrians are heavily bombarding
the Italians on Coni Zugna, ; A. Rus
sian calavry force of 1 .000 men tol
erating between the Caucasus yand
Her testimony differed but slightly
from that told at the inquest, and later
before the grand jury, but in one slight
respect it did, and Mr. Joslyn's alleged
harshness developed over this change.
Before the grand Jury she testified
that at all times Miss Lambert seemed
full of the highest spirit. Today she
admitted there were times during the
winter, when, although not despond
ent, she did not appear to have her
usual vivacity.
"Do you mean to say that you re-
(Contlnued on Page Three)
guard such as that near Laredo. It
will be composed of 10 companies of
coast artillery and a battalion of en-
fact and gineers. The artillerymen will be
withdrawn from fortifications be
tween Portland, Maine and Sandy
Hook, and the engineers will go from
barracks in this city. The secretary
said there was no present intention
of calling out additional national
guard regiments for; border duty.
General Mann, commanding at La
redo, reported today that a patrol of
three cavalrymen was fired on -during
the night of June 10, near the
town of Hachita and Private W. L.
Saunders, Troop K, Twelfth Cavalry,
slightly wounded. Two. mounted Mex
icans who did the firing, escaped.
A message from Captain Burrage,
I commanding the battleship Nebraska,
at Vera Cruz, said there was con
siderable unrest in . that region, due
apparently to the current ill feeling.
There was considerable unfriendliness
towards Americans, the message
added. Captain Burrage did not know
the object of these troop movements.
Many towns have held mass meet
ings and protested against the con
tinued presence of American troops
in Mexico.
In two or three instances, Ameri
can property has been attacked, but
no threats against lives has been
reported. The reports of consuls tell
ing of the agitation were turned over
to the Carranza officials more as a
matter of information than as repre
sentations. Where his regular troops
are in control, apparently General
Carranza has earnestly tried in most
cases to prevent the holding of pro
test meetings, and in some places
tRepublican A. P. Leased Wire
BELFAST, June 12. The Ulster
Unionist council, while showing no
enthusiasm for the proposed home
rule compromise, at a meeting today !
presided over by Sir Edward Carson,
authorized Sir Edward to proceed
with the negotiations. The attitude
of the members was that they were
willing to make sacrifices, to obtain
a settlement which will be strength
ening to the empire and would aid i
In winning the war. The meetinsr I
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page Three)
JELLIC0E1S5
MESSAGE TO II
OF BRITISH FLEET
z
PROMISED SUPPORT TO LA ROSA
(Continued on Page Three)
Baker to Represent the
President at St. Louis
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
West Point. He is expected to Indi-
Republlcan A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, June 12. In a message to
the men of the British fleet which was
given out here officially tonight, Ad
miral Jellicoe expressed high apprecia
tion of the manner in which the ships
of the fleet had fought during the Jut
land sea fight on May 31.
"At this stage, when full information
is unavailable," said the admiral, "it
is impossible to enter into details, but
quite sufficient is known for me to
state definitely that the glorious tradi
tions handed down to uh by generations
of gallant seamen were most worthily
upheld.
"Weather conditions that were
highly unfavorable retarded the fleet.
Our losses were heavy. We miss many
most gallant comrades. But although
it is difficult to secure reports of the
enemies' loss it undoubtedly has Ijeen
as large as our own. Sufficient in-
WASHINGTON, June 12 Secretary j 0lte nls attitude on many points )f formation already has been received for
I the campaign.
me to make that statement with con-
wag private but a stntement of the ! L-aser leu lor fct. Louis tonight as tne rni,lnt officers today forwarded to '
proceedings shows that the counties Personal representative of President Ujt Louis drafts of planks dealing j r hope to give the fleet fuller in
Cavan, Monaghan aid Donegal pro-i W ilson at the convention. He had particularly with work of their de-: formation on this point at an early
tested against separation from the held frequent conferences at the White partments, tmd President Wilson con- jdate. I do not wish to delay apprecia-
resi oi Ulster out agreed to abide by , House and took with him the presl- , ferred with several members, of con-: tion of the work of the fleet and my
the decision of the other six Ulster aenfs draft of a platform, together
counties. The meeting further with other political suggestions by the
adopted a resolution stating that in ' conventions. Several planks were
the event of the failure of negotia- written by the president himself,
tions complete freedom of action was presment Wilson left tonight to de-
r?"' ,u "VWae me noie policy Uver an a(1(lress tomorrow before
of home rule.
graduates of the military academy at
gress on political subjects.
Secretary Lansing and Counsellor
Polk conferred at the state depart
ment late in the day, but said after-
confidence in a future complete victory.
"The wonderful spirit and fortitude
of the wounded fills me with the great
est admiration. I am more proud than
ward they had talked over various ever of the honor of commanding the
routine mntters and had touched on fleet manned by such .officers and
politics only incidentally. men."
' Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, June 12 Army
officers here are convinced that Luis
de la Rosa has obtained from certain
officers in Carranza's army promises
of support in any border warfare
which he may begin against Ameri
cans. Agents of the department of
justice and of the state department
have sent to Washington and to army '
headquarters here evidence which of
ficers here regard as reliable, that De
la Rosa has been assured he will be
unmolested by the de facto govern
ment troops and from at least one
general officer of Carranza's army the
promise of executive co-operation.
Not all Carranza's officers are said to
be Irr the plot and General Funston
credited General Ricaut with all sin
cerity when he told General Mann at
Laredo that he would make such dis
position of his troops along the border
as to prevent, if possible, any raiding
by De la Rosa or other bandit lead
ers. ,
A report that De la Rosa had been
arrested at Monterey had not been
confirmed tonight. He has been en
tering and leaving Monterey with ap
parent immunity for some time,' and
army officers here have taken that as
an indication that only feeble efforts
were being made to capture him.
It was feared here that De la Rosa's
plan of campaign might Include the
dispatching of bands of such small
numbers that running down would be
more difficult than if larger units
were employed.
From Brownsville to points in the
Bi.r Bend district American soldiers
now are patrolling the Rio Grande to
prevent the crossing of other raiders
hut the military force is far from
tight, and General Funston's insistance
that he be given more troops will not,
it was stated tonictit, be lessened by
the sending of 1.000 more const artil-.
lerv men and a battalion of engineers.
Passengers coming from Mexico re
port increasing economic difficulties
and a growing anti-Americanism. Of
ficial sanction has been secured for
holding the anti-American meetings
that have taken place in many towns.
A copy of La Reformn, published at
Saltillo, reached here today in which
four columns were used to explain
why all residents of the place should
participate in a mass meeting that
had been called there to protest
against the intrigues of the White
House and to display their loyalty in
the event of hostilities between Mex
ico and the United States. La Refor
ma is regarded as a semi-official
newspaper,
Philip C. Hanna at Monterey and J.
Silliman at Saltillo are the only re
maining American consular officers at
interior points in Mexico. Those who
were ordered out from Chihuahua.
Durango and Aguas Calientes and
other points recently have not yet
heen notified to return.
stances, however, where the troops
appear to have stood idly by while
the agitators stirred up antagonism
against the United States.
Officials have been unable to deter
mine the inspiration believed the
cause of the sudden outbreak of anti-
American feeling, or to estimate the
ability of General Carranza to pro
tect American lives and property
They feel that the real danger lies in
the possible action of irregular forces
now under the Carranza banner.
Because of economic conditions in
Mexico, officials feel that the possi
bility of serious trouble is enhanced.
The currency situation is acute and
the people are restless and easily
stirred to outbreaks. Several consular
agents have declared frankly in their
reports that any eventuality might
be expected if the agitation contin
ued to spread.
Secretary Lansing still- is at work
on his reply to the Carranza note
demanding withdrawal of American
forces. He again declined today to
discuss it in any respect. It is not
known whether the present disturbed
condition, which has arisen since the
reply was started, will ' affect the
tone of the document. It is indicated
the reply may not be sent for a week
or ten days.
The coast artillery ordered to the
border today includes two companies
from Portland, Maine; two from Bos
ton; two from Narragansett Bay;
two from Long Island; one from
Eastern New York; one from south
ern New York and one from Sandy
Hook. Approximately 1,000 men will
compose this provisional infantry
regiment. '
The Carranza troops have repulsed
the new rebel movement in the Te
huantepec region, according to to
day's advices. The rebels have been
driven from the town of Tehuante
pec, captured last week, and no
longer are threatening Salina Cruz,
the Pacific terminal of the railway.
State department reports indicate
that Carranza's control over certain
state governors is waning. The gov
ernors have issued decrees and even
currency without the authority or ap
proval of the central government.
The currency situation in Santa
Cruz, mentioned in Captain Bur
rage's dispatch is described as due
to the repudiation of issues of large
denomination bills cut out by Car
ranza while he made his capital
there. Conditions in Mexico City are
reported as discouraging; both eco
nomically and politically.
While no new appeal to Americans
to leave Mexico has been made, it is
known that consuls are using every
effort to induce them to depart. It is
estimated that 5,000 Americans still
are beyond the border, 1,000 in Mex
ico City, 2,000 in the Tampico region,
and the others scattered in various
places.
Bandit Bands Are Active
LAREDO, Tex., June 12. Interest
(Continued on Page Three)
Dominguez Reported Taken
Orders His Men to Quit
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Mex., June 12.
Cri'z Dominguez one of the most
powerful Villa leaders operating in
south Chihuahua has been captured by
Constitutional forces, according to an
announcement made at military head
quarters here today. General Jacinto
Trevino, commander of the north,
pointed out that, the capture is per
haps the most important step in the
bandit campaign since Candelario Cer
Vpnts was killed by American troops
at Las Cruces several weeks ago. Do
mingjez. who was one of the Villista
leaders at Ojos Azules, the most im
portant engagement of the American
expeditionary campaign, was taken at
of here. He . Immediately signed -an
order directing members of his band
to come in and surrender. ,
Railroad men of the city held a pa
rade this morning and in the after
noon the school children of the city
and their teachers held a patriotic
demonstration. Speeches were delivered
in the Alameda and at no time were
there any sign of disorder.
Mjch interest was manifested in tho
trial of Luis Sanchez Mena on a charge
of high treason, which began todav,
the court martial being presided over
by General Gonzales Cuellar. It is al
leged Sanchez attempted to recruit a
Mexican legion which would offer it
services to the United States in the
Carichic, about sixty miles southwesjt I event of Intervention.
