ALBU QUERQUE MOMMNG JOTLTRNAI
CITY
CITY
EDITION
EDITION
TH ITITY-SF VENTII
vol. I U So. 7.
17SAIC
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Tuesday, June 13, 1916.
Imlly by Carrier r Moil, (MV
ft Month. Single Cile. ft
DC N N
IILI uuuumiu in
HOPES COLONEL
WILL SUPPORT
PUTT LEADER
Waiting for Hughes Formally
to Declare Himself Regard
ing Germany and German
American Activities,
PLATFORMS IN ACCORD
WITH PROGRESSIVES
Differences of Declarations
Mostly of Minor Import
ance; Rough Rider Expected
to Be Fully Satisfied,
(MC.AL CORR.aRONOtNC TO MORNIN JOURNAL)
Washington, June 12. The. uncx
iiocted usually occurs where Colonel
Roosevelt is concerned, but the belief
is. general here that he wil come out Coleman ranch at fan Samuel, ur
In support of Charles Evans Hughes. r!vcd in Laredo late last night after a
Thai support is not expected to be an- ithirty-five mile tramp after his cs
nounccd before the republican nomi-jCape from the Mexican.
neo is formally untitled and delivers' Hp t)ie bimd wh,on H0U.,nt tol
his speech of ueceplance. ! rustle eighty head of horses aerosH the ?
The telegram from Justice Hughes .Wrier va. romimsert of five Mexi- r
to the convention was an acceptance,
of course, and it was couched In well
enosen language wmcn roign- nave1(fl fnoto K0Vernment troops. He and
been written by any well-educated , Mpy(,r3 attempted to follow the ! Mexl
Ameriean cttixen not in harmony with :canM niaking nwav with the horses
the Wilson policies. It is believed here H)1(1 calqp tm) hors(8 to stampede, but
that Colonel Roosevelt is not satisfied thfv WRIV (.aptured. Conover said he
with the Hushes declaration, princl- ,Wluj treated well by the Mexicans, but
pally because it emphasized dissatls-'the two japaneso wanted to hang
faction with the president's Mexican
policies, but wo not specific regarding i ' ,.,,. ,pf, h,, M.,vf.rs ,
tho altitude of the administration
to-
ward Germany.
Ei-sento Hyphen Attack.
It is known here that Roosevelt re
sents the attacks of the German Amer
icans on his candidacy. The an
nouncement of high, officials of the
Ceriiiaii-Amoricau ullianc.e, before the
Chicago convention met, that the hy
pnen nan enminateu tne rougn naei,
and that, if by any chance he would
be nominated, the German Americana
woum ueroHi mm ui toe jiuic, i "U:f0Umi to be groundless, but the rang-
to have thrown him into u rage lrom j crg ,ook jnto cKt0dy two Mexicans
which he has nut recovered, and l :aiinno.sf.rl to Imve been connected with
not likely to recover for some time.
lar as ine repuoucaji unu uu'i:,aneh raid.
moose platforms are concerned, they
are puarly identical. Hot.h emphasise!
Americanism us Ihc supreme issue.
Points or Similarity.
The republicans declare for one flag
and one faith in America a united
people, true to American ideals, know
ine on allegiance exeent to the consti
i
tution, government and fitiar of the 'of
Vnited Slateis; the progressives le
maud deep loyalty and undivided
al-
leglnnce to America
Tin, r.M.ni.iin-.iw (loniumi n nnvv
stroug enough to protect the country j venter held eonsrws had left the per
from Invasion on either coast; the isonal und domestic relations of ln
progressives u navv once more second idians to be dealt with under the. laws
ill the word of efficiency. ;and customs of the respective tribes.
The republicans want an urniv large The decision dismissed nn appeal from
enough to protect the country s uor- ,me iiawn oi m.- ui .-.
ii,-r an.i f., ,, Birr.ni- iinrUiw forcourt in fiuashlug an indictment
national defense in case of war; the
progressives are more specific in nam-
lug an army of .l (juarter of a niilllim
men as the first line of land defense.
As for our foreign policy, the repub
licans declare for an honest neutrality
that shall insist on our rights us neu
trals without fear or favor, and that
shall restore us to our ri;htful place
among the nations of the world. There
Is also a declaration for settlement of
international disputes by a world
court. The progressives stand for
peace with justice, lor a policy recog
nizing that the United States, as part
of a world-system of civilization, has
three basic duties: To secure the
rights and eatiul treatment of all our
citizens on land or feu; to guard the
honor of the nation; to maintain the!
!,,(,... ... ,. .i . , '
'"wftiiij in int eriiaiiona , iw.
Accord on dim Tariff.
There iH sufficient accord on the !
tariff and the, need of a permanent j
tariff commission. The republican op-j
position to government ownership of ;
vessels, and commitment to mail sub
sidies with privileges of requisition in
time of war, Is approved by Roose
velt. The refusal to dally with the
initiative and referendunr-iay be ob
noxious to htm. The pledge to enact
a child labor law and other social Jus
Mce legislation Is satisfactory. The
ivnune.iat.ion of the Mexican policy
un,l of the plan of scuttle in the Phil
ippines are in accord with the pro
gressives. In the matter of woman suffrage
the progressives declare for It unre
servedly, while the republicans declare
for it in prlnciole. but uoint out that
t is a question for the Individual 1
Mates and not for federal action.
me republican declaration mr
f-ftm.li. - , . . . ...
";'i'"e ietierat control or transpor
Jation looks forward to the Inevitable
The present, system of subjecting the
auruuns to the regulation of forty
HRht different Ntnlea In mlrtition to
'nat of the Interstate Commerce com- i
awion Is becoming intolerable, in
Uoosevelt's opinion.
Should Re Satisfac tory.
It can be seen at once that there is
"oililng in the republican national
Platform to which the colonel can
'axe exception if the progressive plat
form was to his liking. But it is be-
tveu here thnt he wants a specific j
-Liurmion from Hughes which will
hoi that lf.ihp i ir, .vmi.iihv with
he Roosevelt policv regarding Ger-
'
"
The Day in Congress I
SEX ATE,
in session.
X"t
' ""cations appropriation
bill
: ' ""img 34.'J7.0,-,0 taken up.
en i,f Charles E. Hughes, ac
Br i lht' 'republican presidential
erTJ.!"4"0" "rdered printed in cou
I(;r 1 record at the reiiuest. of
"t-Presentatlve Mann.
THE WEATHER
THE WEATHER FORECAST,
I'enver, Coin., Juno U. -Now Mexi
co: Tuesday and Wednesday general
!' fiiir; varnuT southeast porton
Tuesday.
LOCAL WE.VTHEK REPORT.
For twenty-four hours, ending at
6 p. in. yesterday:
M.'ixlmutn temperature, 92 decrees;
minimum, 4S decrees; range, 41 de
grees; temperature nt 6 p. in., SO de
dogrees; southwest wind; clear.
crnr baxk clearings.
$9;U9t.25.
many and the activities of the Ger
man -American. in American politics.
If the formal speech of acceptance
by Hughes rnccls with the colonel's
requirements, it is believed that he
will then give his endorsement, to the
ticket. Should Hughes not he suffi
ciently strong on that particular point,
It Is not Improbable that Roosevelt
either will head a bull moose ticket
or will give hts support to someone
who may be named by the progressive
national committer. It is (iiitc posi
blo that a new hull moose convention
would be called for the purpose of
making a dramatic entry into the cam
paign of a third ticket.
TWO JAPANESE ARE
AMONG RAIDERS
IRY WORNINO JOURNAL PKCIAL LtAtiO WIRRJ
Iiredo, Tex., June 12. -George
Conover, an American cowboy cap
tured by Mexican bandits when he
and Arthur Meyers yesterdny trailed
itheso maurauders. who raided the T.
jcamj. and tWo JapunMe. The Jap
!an(,RP ne saidi wprfl l!)U,r raplUred py
'a secluded place unu, tola tne jumen-
icuns t'i await their return. The Amer- I
lican's then took flight, hiding in the
! brush when the Mexicans came back
tn look for them. The searcher
i passed within fifteen yards of thai
I refugees.
A number of armed citizens
atntj rnnarera . vver olMnalcneil to
jVhi. Tev nnrth of here, enrlv to -
on a r.port thnt railroad bridges
wore npjn(; uurtlPd. The report was
,tnrt ,jaml participating la the Coleman
COURTS HAVE NO CONTROL
OVER INDIAN MORALITY
(ST MORNINO JOURNAL BPICIAL LCASCO WIRI)
Washington, June U. Jurisdiction
the federal government to try oft
ifenses of Indians Involving immorality
jcummitted on Indian reservations was
denied today by the supreme court.
T ie court tlirougn justice anue-
jawinsl a. Pine Ridge, reservation In
'Oian,
i When Captured, Cruz Domin
r..-. Clrrno fvW Fl ! rrvM ! n cr !
IPOWERFUL VILLA
irnnrii nn n i
LLrlULn UnUblll
BY CARRAMGISTAS
i
I
iUVC Olt,ii viuci uiicoiMiejr,lB;e did not know the object of these
Members of
Surrender,
His Band to
lav mornin journal rmcial kaio wiaa
Chihuahua City, Mexico, June 12.
Cruz Lominguez, one of the most
powerful Villa leaders operating in
southern Cliihuahua, has been cap
tured by constitutional forces, accord
ing to an announcement made at mil
itary headauarters here today. Gen.
Jacinto Trevtno, commander of thf j
norm, poniieu oui nvii inn uinum
perhaps the most important step in
the bandit campaign since Candelario
(Cervantes was killed by American
1 poods at Las Cruces several weeks
ago, Domlnguez, who was one of the
Vlllista leaders at O.los Azuies,
. ... i t ...
the
most imoortant engagement or ine
Amerkan expeditionary campaign,
was taken at Carichlc. about sixty
miles southwest of here. He Imme
diately signed an order directing mem-
bers of his band to come In and sur
render.
Railroad men of tho city held a
parade this morning; and In the after
noon the school children of the city
and their teachers held a patriotic
demonstration. Speeches were deliv
ered in the Alameda and at no time
was there any sign of disorder.
Mud. interest was mnnifestd in the
trial of Luis Sanchez Mena on a charge
of hlch treason, which begnn today
the court martial being presided over
by Gen. Gonzales cuellar. Jt is al-
ip.-d KanChez attempted to recruit a
i Mexican ieion which would offer its
services to the I niteu (states in in
event of intervention.
RUSSIANS repulsed;
IS GERMAN CLAIM
(B ORN.Na JOURNAL RMCIAL LIAtO WlRtl I Spread.
Lerltn June 12 (via London. 1 Rus- .Secretary Lansing still is at work
man troops attempted to advance on his reply to the Carranza note fle
northeast of Burzai a, Galk ia. and manding withdrawal of American
were
';,r urilce Sll- I
nounced today
More tlian i.iUU lius-
alans were captured
APPREHENSION
III WASHINGTON
OVER MEXICAN
UNREST GROWS
Renewed Raids in Laredo Re
gion Put Graver Complexion
Over Entire Situation Along
Border,
SLAIN BANDIT SAID
TO BE CARRANCISTA
. i ,
One of Three Outlaws Killed
, ' , .. ,
111 PurSUlt FollOWing Attack
on American Ranch Bears
Officer's Insignia,
4
DEAD aiXDIT IS
CARRA.N OEE1CE11
.
Laredo, Tex., June 12. One of
the three Mexican bandits killed -
today in the chase of outlaws
who raided the T. A. Coleman
ranch, near Laredo, lat night, '
Uiro it Curfun-FI iilfii,' Liifirinir '
the insignia of a Carrnni lieu- '"a "B ou )7."rra"fl
tenant colonel, axcording to a ho mad his capital there. Conditions
mer.ge received here tonight. m Mexico City are reported as discour
Ono of the bandits taken prls- economicaly and politl-
oner Identified the body at Webb,
Tex., this afternoon as Lieu-
tenant Yillareal of tho Currnnza
army,
lV MORMtNO JOURNAL RRICIAL LtAStO WIRffJ
WnsliinKton. June li!. With 1,500
dditlonal regular troops ordered to
;thc Mexlcan 'border tonight, and re
iports of the rapid spread or anti-
American feeling continuing to pour
In from consuls sll over northern
IJlexleo, administration officials, madu
nndlrio attempt to disguise their uneaal-
.rieuu
It was officially admitted that
!hr..
is a growing alarm over what
hhe agitation may produce and
: possibility of an attack on Uei
the
General
PerHbing's expedition.
Part, of the increosing apprehension
tira i rin h., rem.uii ruiilx ,n
the Laredo region. ti?verol reports i
ilea tin with tiie Ritiixilnn I hen. liiivo
been received. (Hficlals declined to
reveal details; but they gave thy im-
presslon of having a reason to believe
a serious purpose was behind the
bandit raid on the Coleman ranch.
Three raiders Were killed and three
captured, one report snid, adding Unit
they attempted to burn a railroad
bridge pear Laredo, but failed.
To Pill in ats.
The new force sent to join General
Funston's border patrol, .Secretary
Baker siid, was to fill in gaps in the
guard suon as that near Laredo. It
I Will be composed of ten companies of
coast artillery and a battalion of en-1
glneei s. The urtillerymen w ill bo
wlthdrawn from fortifications be-
two,, poniimj Me
.... ..
and Sandy Hook,
and the engineers will go from bur-
iracKs In this city. The secretary said
(that there was no present intention of
caning out nimnionul national guard . Mendez' wife. This letter was found
regiments for border duty. !on tlt bandit s body.
Goncn I Matm, eJicinandinr? at La-I ,epmv sheriff Dolores of Laredo
redo, rcpo:-"d today thi-.t j patrol (il!h,,,H.,i in-, ih:.t tni..r,.u.,iH ,h.
I rnii
v,v... i.- men ,oj i"cu uu uui-
Ing tho
iiis-ht of Juno V), near the th(1 deputy s shots that killed Vil-i-Iacbil
i and Private W. 1 ... i ,,., r,r,ii,,o- t i. ,..,,. vu.
I town or.
Saunders, ',?roop K, Twe'fth ca ah y,
slightly wciund id. Two mounted MtX'
leans who did the firing esc.ipetl.
l.'tircst Xc.'ie iia "hi."..
A message from Captain P.urrage,
commanding the battleship Nebraska,
at. Vera Cruz, said there was eonslder-
nbln tinri.u, lit Ihul rncrlrin ,lnn uitiiiir. 1
ently to the currency situation. There
wore no evidences of unfriendliness
towards Americans, the message said.
It addeil that tne i.arranna aovern-
nent had been sending troops and .
ummu ni Hon inland. Captain P.ur-
troop movements.
Tile stale department,
through
c 1..1 , . ti r ri . r-i..
hL. nHoS h.r nltnntT , i i'to Kajvi lie. ) Of ficers of the German
iTtn Jnvl, t. Lt th nn VmeH cruisers Elblng and Fraucnlnb, In
: wnft, t!f0cr ! rr in hthr rrnuf unz tu:?-
.opI, hnvo hn .nrndino- tenrt ilv ! emphasize what they describe as the
Mnv towns have held mass meetings !
and protested against the continued
presence of American troops la Mex
ico. Piojf,'rty Is AttarUed.
Tn .U7 r.r three instaneos jVme.ricnn
I property has boen attacked but no,w.oulu navo suniecn
thr - u.ts " BKulnst
lives or Amer cans
havo been reported. The reports of
consuls telling-of the agitation w ere .
turned over to the Carranza officials!
more ns a matter of information than :
sh representations. Where his reaxi-1
lar troops are in control, apparently 'continuously engaged. Only eight
General Carranza has earnestly tried! men from the Elblng; were lost.
In most cases to prevent the holding The Frauenlob was engaged from 7
of protest meetings, and In some , p. m. until 10:30 p. m. and again en
places contemplated meetings and tered the battle at midnight. Al 1 In
parades have been prevented. TheBe tho morning the cruiser was struck by
are Instances, however, where the a torpedo, the explosion lifting her
troops appear to have stood Idly byiigh into the air. The torpedo en
whilo the agitators slirred up antag-jtered tho engine room and exploded
on Ism against tho United States. there, the ship sinking seven minutes
Officials huvo been unable to de-' later. Eight survivors on three nar
termlne the Inspiration behind the !row rafts floated for len hours, sitting
sudden outbreak of anti-American . back to back with their legN In the
foellng. or to estimate the ability of
General Carranza to protect Ameri
can lives and property. They feel
that the real danger lies in the pos
sible action of irregular torces "ow!gine room ttn(j completely disabled
tind-i- the Carranza bannT. but whose, hpr and Hnp mld to ,pft behind,
commanders yield only doubtful al- she went down linallv, fighting to tli
legtance to the central government
Serious 'lroubli" l-ai-cil.
I'.ecause of economic, "condit ion In
Mexico .officials feel that the possi
bility of serious trouble Is enhanced.
The currency situation is acute ami
the people are restlea-H and easily
stirred to outbreaks. Several consular
agents have declared frankly In their
roports that any eventuality may bo
expected if the ugitulion continued to
lories. lie HU.uu un tiiirii wwnw iu
iu us ii hi any ."i'" ..
It is not
ilLnowu, whether the naent disturbed
Kentucky Delegation
in Bad Train Wreck
T MORNIN JOURNAL II t.'IAL LUIID WIKt)
Owenshnro, Ky., June IS. Passen
ger, train No. 113 on the Louisville,
Henderson and St. l,ouis railway was
wrecked three blocks from the nw
onsboi'o station early tonight. Time
sleepers left the rails, one belli du
stroyed by fire, bul it is no known yet
how many persons were killed or In
jured, if any. The Kentucky delega
tion to the convention at St. Louis, In
cluding tlovcvnor A. i.l, Stanley ami
former Governor McCreury were on
the wrecked train.
condition, which baa arisen since the
reply was started, will affect the tone
of the document. It is indicated the
reply may not be sent for a week or
ten days.
Artillery to Border.
The coast artillery ordered to the
border today Includes two companies
from Portland, Me.; two from Roston,
two from Narragansett bay, two from
Long Island, one from eastern New
York, one from southern New York,
and one from Sandy Hook. Approxi
mately 1,0(10 men will compote this
;I,-r:Ls,,;nul infan,,ry regiment.
The Carranza troops have repulsed
" rebel movement in the Te-
j II uwi icyi'v I ii, tM.i.LO u IIIK, it) lnwiij n
aovioes. j ne reoeis nave been driven
from the town of Tehuantcpec, cap
tured last week, and no longer are
threatening Sallna Crust., the Pacific
terminal of the railway.
C'arrnna I-osing Hold?
State department officials indicate
that Carranza' control over certain
slate governors Is waning. The. gov
ernors have Issued decrees and even
currency without the authority or ap
proval of the central government.
Tho currency situation in Santa
Cruz, mentioned in Captain Rurrage's
dispatch, is described as due to the re
pudiation of issues of large denomlnn-
WHiile no new appeal to Americans
I to leave Mexico has been made, it Is
known that consuls are tiding- every ef
Ifort to induce them to depnrjt. It Is
! estimated that 5,000 Americans are
istill beyond the border, 1,000 in Mex
iico City, 2,000 in the Tampico region,
and the others wattered In various
places,
AEROPLANES Rol'XD
von rEKsmxu rase
Columlus, NT. M., June 12. Two
aeroplanes, which have been here un
dergoing repairs, will take to the uir
tomorrow morning bound for General
Pershing's base in Mexico, in response
i 10 repeated cans tor mat nines, j nere
are six otner ucropianes at v (uuiuoub
I also undergoing repairs. The two
! leaving tomorrow were tested out to
day. They will each carry a pilot and
observer.
iRAXDITS PUXXEI
I TO WRECK TRAIN"
I Laredo,
! Mendez, a
Tex.. June 12. Cenoblo
Mexican cowboy, who ivu.t
: captured by the bandits in the raid on
,' the Coleman ranch and escaped when
jtlio Mexicans Were nirpriseil while
j attempting tn burn the bridge on the
' IntcrmitUircil niwl flrent Xorlhera rail-
! roa(j nvHr K(li(, the bandits
! tuiuerl freelv nf their tun-nose to burn
a brill Re anil wreck a train, after
i ihcv intcnrtcH killing nmi rob
!v,ini the riiissenircrH
At Enclnal, just east of Laredo, the
I bandits acordinu- tn Mi nrlcz. oei mit-
hi. .,, u-rllp ,. farewell letter to
,iia u.if(, 1Ur, Iminhts havlnir nrevloilsiv
stated their Intention of killing liiin.
Hp Uu ,,lt,.r uus ivt-tt to Villa-
rP(lI .,, ,,roniled to deliver it to
hmnlltH ill ihu luiilire nnil it uvim one
... "V , ,,.;,, rh, ,tLt.r.
iilcly. Two other .Mexicans wcro
killed before the bandits retreated.
American soldiers are stationed at
Webb tonight, owing to fears that the
town will he attacked by bandits In
revenge for the killing of their
pr-n nil A mo PDITIPI"7r
IjtnlVIAINo Unl I lUIZt
FOES MARKSMANSHIP
lay mornins journal aece.AL LiAaio aiiRai
Berlin, Juno 1 (Prom an Assoc.lat
111 Ai.-i i-ui i f.-ii'uiiut-ui, iY -iicicro
extraordinarily bad marksmanship
of the Rrttlsh gunners In the North
sea, battle. For a lonK period, they de
Clare, the Elblng was exposed to the
continuous heavy fire of Rrltlsh
dreadnaughts and a sinjtio fair hit
to sink
her, but
"
hit once. The German
success, tney uecutreu, was due solely
to Hiiperior marksmanship.
The officers give tho duration of
the battlo as stventeen hours, during
fourteen of which the Elblng was
water und with heavy waves washing
over them continually.
The cruiser Wiesbaden was struck
oy a she.! wnicn peneiruteil the en
last.
li a mnl ic Critln Dies.
Chicago, June J;. Acton Dm ies,
former dramatic critic ot the New
York Evening fjun, and recently lit
erary Hdviser to leading theatrical
managers, died early today in a hos
pital hera. He, bad been undergoing
treatment for an affection of the
heart. He was in his forty-sixth year.
Bandit Leader Arretted.
Laredo, Tex.. June 12. According
to ,a passenger arriving here from
Monterey, Luis de la Rosa, -Mexican
bandit leader, was arrested yesterday
by order of Gcueral Hicaul.
MARSHALL MAY
NOT AGAIN LAND
NOMINATION FOR
VICE PRESIDENT
Pre-convention Gossip Irjdi
, ti . i r i .
cates I hat Many Delegates
Want Stronger Man as
son's Running Mate.
BAKER BEING PUT
FORWARD BY SOME
Secretary of War,
Says Mention of Name Is
Friendly Enterprise; Schiff
Back of .Movement,
lav Morning journal avaeiAL LiAtto wiri)
Kt. Louts, June la. Pre-convention
discussion centered largely today on
moves and suggestions to defeat plans
for the renomlnation of Vice Presi
dent Marshuli and put a new man on
the ticket with President Wilson. As
the number of delegates to the demo
cratic national convention grew hour
ly greater l.oomiets for variouu lavor-;
tte sons appeared. i
The movement against Vice Presi-
dent Marshall for renomlnation took,
well defined form and substance when j
iieiny aiii.Ri'iHiiuu, who rccuiiiiy stivv
up his post as ambassador to Turkey.!
uiai ne rniKiu, engage in ine worn
re-electing President Wilson, un -
nounced that a "stronger man" than
Marshall should be named and
brought forward Secretary of War1
RaUir to run with President Wilson.
Husgcsllim Inspired?
II. was pointed out thnt Mr. Mor-
K.intbsu had been close to the admin -
is) rat Ion and that It might indicate
that the naming of Mr. Raker would
not be unacceptable.
Mr. Morsenthau hastened, however,
to make. It clear that he was urging
" .""
responsibility and Initiative.
M inn vtaniri Mionger sinn.
National Chairman McCnmbs said
tonight he had received u telegram
from Jacob .Schiff, the New York
banker, asking that a stronger candi
date than Mr. Marshall be named und
Mr. MorterithHu also stated that ho
had a letter from Mr. Hchll'f reuuest
intf that another than Air. Marshall
bo pot on the ticket.
Talk that Secretary Raker's name
would be presented as a candidate for,
vice president caused a rush of dele
gates to national committeemen and
other party leaders to know if there
hud been any change In the plans to
rename Mr. Marshall The Inl'orma-:
tlon was (itiickly gheii that "noses bud.
been counted long ago'' anil that'
while one or two names other thuii'
Marshall's might be heard on the con.
vention floor the vote for him would
he virtually unanimous. If there Is not;
a nomination by acclamation.
"Ab-urd," Says Mack. ;
'There will be no bitch In the plan
to rename the present democratic,
ticket." said National Chairman Mc
Conibs tonight, when asked about pos--sibilltlcs
of opposition to -dr. Mar-j
shall Natiuiuil Committeeman Mack
of New York, also declared that the
talk of upsetting the plan to rename
Mr. .Marshall was "silly and absurd."
Just before departinir from Wash
ington for St. Louts Secretary or War
Raker announced he was for Marshall
and that the mention of his own nam
wii3 merely "friendly enterprise." He
is expected to stop all mention of his
name when he reaches this city lute
tomorrow.
Other Risiim Nlarlod.
Booms for new candidates for vice
president still appeared hourly, the
lust one to come to notice tonight be
ing one for Judge A. M. Jackson, of
Wlnfleld, Kas.
The Nebraska delegation Is In
structed as a unit for Governor John
If. Morehead for tho vice presidency,
but it was reported tonight that when
Governor Morehead reaches Ht. Louis
tomorrow that ho will agree to re
nounce his candidacy conditioned
upon the withdrawal of the candidacy
of I'oirer Sullivan of Illinois. As Mr.
a..no,.,v. h.. K.rll.llKlv Wen a
candidate for vice president, his name Oyster Hay, June 12. Col. Theo
belng brought forward by Illinols!dore Roosevelt was visited at his home
friends simply with the desire to pny at Sagamore HU today by James R.
the state leader a compliment, lt up- ioarfield and Pean Willium Urnper
peured to leaders tonight an agree- i,,wiS. According lo his secretary.
mcnt witn Governor ainreneaa couia
ho reached.
A. Mitchell Palmer, national com
mitteeman from Pennsylvania, de
dared that all the Pennsylvania dele
gation is for Marshall. Palmer said
he made the announcement to help
"kill off the little lioomlets."
IllOnn U IUUI 1 I1UIVM
Wl ,11am J. Itryun doeg not expect to
proolpltute any fight on the pariy;
platform. That was the information i
brought here tonight by a close friend
of the former secretary of state, who !
n men mat mi. i j.. ..i...,i ,...,,.
all. no before the resolutions com-
mittee and that he would not maker""
any effort, to oniain a. proxy. jvir. i
Kryan Is expected here lute tonight orjhim.self In his home today, except for
tomorrow when Senator Ollle James,,
President Wilson's cholco for perma-,
nent chairman, is also due to arrive.
Senator Stone, who Is to be the
chairman of tho committee on resolu
tions, issued a statement today In
which be characterized the nomina
tion of Justice Hughi'S by the repub
lican party as in every way bad and
vicious, it was a dangerous experi
ment, he pointed out. for u great po
litical party, hard pressed, to Invade
the supreme court and take down
from the bench one of Its Justices to
make him a candidate for political of
fice to meet and serve a party exi
gency.
tight on Hughe DceloS'il.
i-'onulor Stone s
renerally was taken
iironnuneenient
to mean that thei
democratic party probohlv would
make u. party issue against Justice
Hughes on the ground of his nomina
tion to ths presidency while on the
supremo bench. Other leaders, how
ever, were not Incline, to press this
issue, recalling that the party drafted
Alton IS, Parker when he was chief
Orders Execution of
His Own Officer
tar MnRM,Na journal vpicial tcASto wiri.
lbiblin, June U'.- An incident of
tile Irish rebellion heretofore kept sc
ire! came out at a court-martial to
day. It concilia the shooting by a
sergeant of the guard at the Guin
ness brewery, ot his officer and an
employ of the brewery, whom he
took for rebels.
The sergeant is Robert Flood, of the
Royal Dublin lusileers. He Is charged
with the murder of l ieutenant Lucas
of King Ldward's horse, and William
J. Rice, who was employed at the
brewery. Lieutenant Lucas took over
thp command of the guard on tho
j night of April 2S. Lucas was unknown
11 ii... . - . ... . .
"vK'a. ii was too oars, to
cognize his uniform and when h
vpviiau a wo. now, wnicn wuj, contrary
to lnstructioiiM, Elood ordered his ar
rest, the prosecutor said, and later Ills
execution, as well as that of Rice.
justice of the New York court of ap
peals. Samuel Compels, president of the
American Federation of Labor, with
Sccretuiy Morrison and other labor
leudcrs, arrived today, bringing four-
Hi'ivVeHipr 't'l'n hibor planks which they desire
riUWCVCIl'to have incornorntuil Into li nurtv
platform.
Glynn Temporary (lialrman.
The national committee held a ses
sion today as a preliminary to the
opening of the convention on Wed
nesday and formally arranged for the
temporary organization. Former Gov
ernor .Martin Glynn of New York of
ficially was named as temporary
chairman and the man who will start
the convention and campaign with the
"keynote" speech. Only one seat
that in the Hawaii delegation among
the LC92 In tho convention, waa con
tested before the committee. Two
contests tor pieaces on tne new na
tlonal committee were deferred
for
decision bv the new committee when
lt meets Immediately after the flnul
convention session,
PREKIREXT WILSON'
iiOES TO KY
' '
in,. v,u, York Tnni
12. President
1 ,.,....,. ,,,. u'lmhimrtn,,
at 10: IS tonight.
The Mayflower anchored In the
Hudson river off New York tonight
and earlv tomorrow morning will
Ht u.rt for Wist Point, where the presi-
dent Is to address the graduates of
- the military academy tomorrow,
.
SECRETARY RAKER
j LEAVES FOR ST. l.OPIS
, : ,
vui,i,,io if, K.rni.irv
F.uker lett for Kt. Louis, tonight, as
l(h( 1(,rHona ,.,,l)rom.n,tlv0 of presi-
vetnlon. lie had held frequent con- ""e nv 'iKn mat as an inaicatton
leretices al the White House undj'hat only feeble efforts were being
took with him the president's draft I made to capture him.
of a platform, together with other It was feared hern that de In Rosa's
political suggestions for consideration ,,n f campaign might Include tht
by the convention. Several planks dispatching of bands of such ' omalt
were wrlttten by the president him-! numbers that running them down
hmH. although the precise phraseology ",!ld he-more dirfiruIUhal, If Ijereer
of most of tho platform will bo left j ",,e employed. ,
to the resolutions committee. More Men Still Needed.
President Wilson left tonight lo de-j Prom Brownsville to points in the
liver un address tomorrow beforel"f Rend district American soldiers
Ifraduates of the military academy Ht
West Point. He is expected to indi
cate his altitude on many points of
the campaign.
Cabinet officers today forwarded
to Ht. Louis drafts of planks dealing
ilarv academy
particularly with work of their de
partments, und President Wilson con
ferred with several members of con
gress on political subjects. Hecre
tarv Lansintr and Counsellor I'olk
conferred at the state deimrtmeitt
late in the dav. bul said I tcrwnnl
that they had talked over various i
routine matters and had touched oil
politics only incidentally.
Sees Garfield and Lewis, Who
Advise With Him as to What
to Say and When He Shall
Say It; Rebukes Reporter.
. "ORNINU journal rrrcial l.a.io w.R.l
I John W. McGrath, who returned from
'Chicago, the colonel "had a full and
! frank discussion" with Mr. Garfield
land Iiean Louis "as to what he in
jtend.i to to say" with regard to the
i political situation and "the time he
(should fay it."
-""'either of the visitors would make
- statement after their interview
w ith Colonel liooscvelt. Roth have
been nrominent In tireeres.dve party
clrcl-!", Iean Lewis having drafted
. piatfor,,, adopted by tho
' .,
Chicago l
I
r uvu-.ci, wnu r,-, m... ,
a couple of hours when he went for a
horseback ride with Mrs. Roosevelt.
A newspaper correspondent who met
the colonel In tho road, tusked If there
was anything he cared to say. but the
former president turned from him af
ter a sharp reply In the negative.
THREE RAIDERS KILLED
trnnu nnnrrnn
i turn buitiiu
WITH FRIENDS AS
TO RIS COURSE
iiin Tlinrr ADr r A I IPUT 1 :1,'IU'" inignt u. ine wnereaoouis ui
AND THREE ARE CAUbH I ICapt. t,,t . U. II and his detachment
i of the Fourteenth L'nited Stutes cav-
,ai.o.N,. journal RRiAL L....O ,r.i i ''lr'. pursuing bandits who during the
Laredo, Tex., Juno 12. Three oM"'t forty-eight hours have made Sev
ille band of Mexicans who partkiput-f"! "'' the border section west
ed in the raid on the T. A. Coleman mJ northwest of Laredo. 'Hie raids
rnm.il ..i Kn.i sim I vnali-rihiv ,rnfhave resulted In tne loss ot several
killed nnil three more captured today, i
HceordiiiL- to n renoit receive.! here,
The report did not make It clear
whether the pursuers were Texas
rangers or American troops lu com
mand of Captain Welborii.
Since three of the bandits were re
ported es.pt ured early today, this ac
counts for nine of the baud.
OUTLAW BACKED
Bf OFFICERS OF
Military Experts Convinced
That De la Rosa Is Being
Aided and Abetted by Con
stitutionalists BANDIT'S ARREST
NOT CONFIRMED
Chieftain Said to Be at Large
in Monterey; Efforts to
Seize Him Are Said to Be
Feeble, v
NIT WORNIN JOURNAL RMHIAL LIABtO WIRAI
Ban jntonio, Tex., June 12.- Arnvy
officers here are convinced that Luil
de la Rosa tins obtained from certain
officers In Carranzo's army promises
of support in any border warfare
which he may begin against Ameri
cans. Agents of the department of
justice nnd of the state department
have sent to Washington and to army
headquarters hero evidence which of
fleers here regard as reliable, that De
In Rosa has been assured he will be
unmolested hy the de facto govern
DON VENUST10,
ARMY MEN AVER
YORKjment troops and from nt least oni
I general officer of Carrnnxa's army the
promise of active co-operation.
Not nil Carrnnza's officers ar said
to be In the plot end General Funston
credited General Rlcaut with all sin
cerity when ho told General Mann at
Laredo that he would mrtke such dis
position of his troops along the bor
der as to prevent If possible any raid
ing by da la Rosa or other bandit
lenders. ;
Arrest Is Doubted.
A report thnt de la Rosa had been
arrested at Monterey had not been
confirmed tonight. ' He has been en
terlng and leaving Monterey with ap
j parent immunity for somo lime, ac-
Hti""w are patrolling- the Rio Gr
rando to
prevent the crossing of other raiders
but the military force Is far from
tight, and General Funston's insist
ence that he bo given more troops
will not, It was stated tonight, be les
sened by the sending; of 1.000 more
const artillery men and a battalion ot
engineers,
Piwsengers coming from Mexico re
port Increasing economic difficulties
I "d a growing anti-A merlcanlsm
Of
for l "dal sanction has been secured
holding the antl-Amerlcan meetings
that have taken place In mnny towns.
A copy of I.a Reforma, published at
Paltillo, reached here today In which
four columns were Used to explain
why all residents of the place should
participate In a mass meeting that had
been called there to protest against
the intrigues ot the White House and
to display their loyalty in the event
of hostilities between Mexico and the
Pnlted States. La Reforma Is re
garded as a aeml-offlcinl newspaper.
Philip C. Hanna. at Monterey, and
J. Sllllman, at Sultlllo, are the only
remaining American consular officers
at Interior points In Mexico. Those
who were ordered out from Chihua
hua, Durango and Aguas Cnllentes
and other places recently, hove not
yet been notified to return.
RAIDER CHARGED WITH
ATTEMITED UORSE THEFT
El Paso, June K. The reported
raid by five armed Mexicans on Amer
ican territory on the outskirts of El
Paso yesterday afternoon resulted to
day In the arrest In Juarei of a Mex
ican who. Instead ot being detained
for trying to capture El Paso, was
booked on the less heroic charge of
attempted horse stealing.
Such was the result of the Investi
gation by General Gonzales, tempor
ary commander of northern Chihua
hua, and Andres Garcia, the Mexican
consul at Kl Paso. Consul Garcia
said tonight that the man arrested
was the only one to have crossed ttie
line, and his discharge of fire arms
was due to disappointment at finding
on the American side two Olher Mex
icans, who also had an eye, although
Innocently, on the same horse. No
others were implicated.
The consul - timught over from
Juarez todav an American recruit who
Iliad iKiiorautly crossed tho interna
! tlonal border, where he was arrested
liv Carranza soldiers. His release fol-
lowed as soon as General Rell could
bo communicated with.
t Consul Garcia still persists in his
! nm in, wh,' vinw of the outcome of the
unti-Amerlcan demonstrations In Mex
ico. He says tbey have no other ob
ject than to Impress Washington with
the popular Mexican attitude toward
tho presence of th expeditionary
forte.
PI RSI IT OI RAIRIXtl
II WRITS CO.MTIM'KS
j Uiredo, Tex., .lime 12. Interest at-
horses stolen from Texas ranches, and
the ileum or ut leiwi inree .Mexican
bandits and the capture of two. Re
ports early tonight were vague and ,
it was not known here whether troops
or civilian posses killed the three ban
dits. No American casualties have
been reported. . . . .
The bandiis, variously estimated to
