THE BARME DAILY
VOL. XX NO. 76.
BARRE, VERMONT, TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
ATTACK YIELDS
GERMAN GAIN
Occupied French Advanced
Trenches on the Eastern
:lw Slope of Hill 321
FAST LIVING ENDED
IN HIS ARREST
REPULSED ELSEWHERE
, SAYS WAR OFFICE
The Only Gain in General
Attack Was to West of
Thiaumont Farm
Paris, June 13. German troops last
hight renewed the attack over tlie whole
ection of the front west of Thiaumont
farm, succeeded in entering some ad
vanced positions on the eastern slope of
. Hill 321, west of the farm, but were re
pulsed elsewhere, the war office an
nounces. West of the Meuse there were
no important actions during the night.
The bombardment continued heavy in the
Chattancourt region.
BRITISH START
AN OFFENSIVE
German Official Statement Says That the
German Positions South of Ypres
Have Been Attacked. .
Berlin, via London, June 1.1. Fu
advances on the Verdun front, neur t. it
Douaumont. were announced to-day by
the war office. .
British troops ha.ve begun movements
against German positions southeast of
lpres.
Edward C. Kindred, Held In Boston, Is
Wanted in New York on Charge
of Embezzling $22,119.
Boston, June 13. Edward C. Kindred,
whose lavish expenditures resulted in his
arrest last night on the charge of em
bezzlement of $22,119 from Booth &
Flinn company, contractors, of New
York, waa arraigned to-day as a fugitive
from justice. His case was continued for
a hearing to June 20. He was locked up,
lacking $2.,000 bail. The man is 34
years of age.
Under the name of F.dward C. Kin
ney he came to Boston several weeks
ago and the police claim that among his
entertainments was a dinner given bv j
him a few nights ago for which the
check was $1,000. A quantity of jewelry
and several trunks filled with fashion
able clothes were found , in his apart
ment m the wack Bay district.
HARD BLOW
FOR BANDITS
The Largest Surviving Band
of Villa Followers Was
Defeated
IN DASHING ATTACK BY
TT .S nFTAPWMT7'TrP K'rand Commander Henry L. Ballou of
U, p. t1w8tr 33(1 dpgrMi who succeeded the
TWO DEGREES EXEMPLIFIED
At Council of Deliberation Meeting In
Burlington.
Burlington, June 13. Masonic week
opened yesterday afternoon with the 42d
annual session of the Vermont Council
of Deliberation.
The Vermont consistory, Cliarles II.
Jones, commander-in-chief, gave an ex
emplification of the Stith degree at 6
o'clock yesterday evening and of tho 28th
degree at 7:30 in the evening, a ban
quet in the hall winding up the day's
events.
The reports of the officers showed that
the past year has been a very prosper
ous one for the council. The proceedings
of the meeting included an address by
WILSON WANTS
INDIANA VOTE
Therefore He May Insist on
Renomination of Vice
President Marshall
DEATH OF T. R. HOLDER.
POLICE DISARMED
BY BOSTON MOB
Officers Charged Strike Sympathizers and
- Were Stoned and Relieved of Their
Clubs Later Two Men ,
Were Arrested.
Cambridge, Mass., June 13. The strike
of building laborers' waa marked by riot
ing to-day with the return of some of
the men employed on a building near the
ew Massachusetts Institute ot tech
nology. The policy were ordered to dis
perse strike sympathizers who were mak
ing a demonstration, and the officers
were stoned and their clubs were taken
away from them. The officer .fired sev
eral shots in the air. Two men were ar
rested, charged' with inciting a riot.
ALLIES BOMBARDING
BULGARIAN COAST
-(
Population of the Towns are Fleeing In
land as the Guns Work Havoc from
Poston Lagos to Dedeaghatch.
Paris, June 13. A Saloniki dispatch
to the Radio agency says that allied
fleets are bombarding the southern Bui
garian coast from Poston Lagos to De
deaghatch. The population is fleeing in
land.
LONDON PRESS SEES
STRENGTH IN HUGHES
If the Colonel Supports Him President
Wilson's Defeat Prophesied,
Americans Uninjured in the
Battle in a Canyon
of Chihuahua
late. Marsh- O. Perkins, 33d degree, as
deputy from Vermont to the supreme
council 'of ' Sovereign . Grand Inspectors
General. -An obituary -sketch of Deputy
Perkins was read by H. H. Ross, 33d de
gree, grand secretary.
The election of officers consisted, as
usual, of advancing most of the present
oflicers one office higher. The new ros
ter of the year is as follows: Henry L.
Ballon of Chester. 33d decree, coraman-
Field Headquarters of General Tersh- der-in-chief and deputy for Vermont;
ing, via radio to Columbus, N. M, June Charles A. Chapnan of Ferrisburg, grand
13, A finishing blow was given to the first lieutenant commander; Raymond L.
largest surviving band of Villa followers Squle of Burlington, grand second lieu
in Chihuahua at daylight on June 0 bv tenant commander; Edward L. Bates,
twenty men of the Thirteenth cavalry 33d degree, of Bennington, grand min
under Captain Rethorse, in a dashing ister of state; Khoy B. Whitaker of
fight in a canyon 20 miles north of Santa Barre. crand chancellor; Frank I Clark
Clara, near here. The Americans were) of Rutland, grand prior; Charles W.
not hurt. , Whitoomb. 33d decree, of Troctorsville,
grand treasurer; Henry H. Ross, 3Jd o
Barre Man Had Been in Declining Health
For a Long Time,
Thomas R, Holder passed away at his
nome, i.1 .Lords alley, off Washington
street, this morning around 5 o'clock." the
end following a long period of declining
neaiin. jwr. Holder, a native of Enirhind.
came to the United States in ISM and
worked in Burlington for a time before
moving to Barre in Otober, 1NH7. Ho
was a lumper and boxer bv trade. In
1HH9 he united with the First Baptist
cnuroti of Uarre and in the following
years he became a member of the New
England Order of Protection. His mar
riage to Nellie M. Hunt took'pluce Feb.
ia:u, Ins wile being a native of iSouth
SOME DELEGATES
OPPOSING HIM '-'Toa death rurred in Bar,re ov-
, , . 18118. His second marriage took place
J.
Stirred over Woman
Suffrage Plank
Dee. 22, 1901, when Mr. Gertrude
Kent of Lyndon became his wife.
1 : : i .. , ji
bt. LOUIS Convention tO Be '"red Holder, who lives in Australia; a
sister, a half-sister and a half-brother
in Birmingham, Kngland. Surviving also
re his wife, a daughter, Miss Lthcl M.
Holder, a foster-son, Harry C. Kent, who
lives at home, and- a foster-daughter,
Mrs. Charles S. Jenkins, who lives in
Mill) MnaD ' Mr Iftlilnr U'Oil h.iM
St. Louis, June 13. The delegates to in high esteem bv manw acquaint-
the Democratic national convention, snces. For a long time he was corres-
which will open at noon to-morrow, were PndinK weretary of the lumpers' box-
inp.a.j j ii , , era' and derrickmen's union, of which or-;
interested to-day in the questions wheth- anUatSn. ,.,', w
!- T . . I "t " ....... K. ............
cr vice-rresment Marshall will be nomi- Formerly he was emploved for many
nated by acclamation or whether some years by Emslic & McLeod, working later
of the favorite sons will insist unon . '" Barclay Bros
i o I fri.- s l .:il l -i. 41.
n f kinr. 1 . . , j , ,1 X HO 1UI11JM1 Will lirid , u IIIC 1 J ' '
ing before the convention and the prob- xhurgday afternoon at 2 o'clock. Rev.
FASTIDIOUS
STORE THIEF
After Rifling Two Cash Reg
isters He Arrayed Himself
in a New Summer Suit
THEN SOME TAN SHOES,
TIES AND JEWELRY
Entered Store of F. H. Rog
ers & Co. by Cutting C ,s
in the Office Win
Jttt was tak-
.nd boot shop
CARRANZA OFFICER SLAIN.
He Was Among Mexican Bandits Killed grand master of ceremonies; Herbert B.
By American Troops Small of Burlington, grand Hospitaler;
Ti t. T..--1, r u-1 Austin D. Paige off Lyndonville, grand
v A.f I'll 113 1.1. VIIC Ul HID n.rluiin M I 'iVIU'All rf Hrfltt I A
. l - . , ... a a . I BriitBl. HW t VIIIWUC a-. sv ' V v. www
mree mexican oanaits Kiuea yesterday , ,j .unrH Ki,ri-- AlWt Kil
a vne cnase uy L nitecl Mates troops ot h.. ,,;,., mnli r.faln of the
.. . ..... . . I If, MI ' ' I . u. l.I.K w... ...
....... . . " 11'- laiuu a. . vuiriiiaii
ranch near Jaredo Sunday night wore a
able action of the delegates regarding m. J. Lehic-h. nastor of the First Baptist
gree. of Burlington, grand secretary; Lee the suffragists' demand for an unequivo- church, will officiate and interment will
a. j.uiuw..JM, t'. "- cu declaration in the n atform for eoiml oe roaae m ine iamuy ioi at.
rights. cemetery, South Barre. It is requested
ISentiment for Marshall's re-nomina. that flowers be omitted.
tion appears strong. Talk about nomi
nating Secretary of War Baker ended al
mosi as soon as it started, and it is
said that Gov. John P. Morehead of Ne-
S0MEWHAT MOLLIFIED
RUSSIAN REVERSE
IN NORTH BUKO WIN A
Austrian Official Statement Tells of the
Capture of 1300 Russians in a
Heavy Counter Attack.
Berlin, via wireless, June 13. German
and Austro-German troops delivered
heavy counter attack on the Russian
forces advancing in northeastern Buko
wina and drove them back, capturing l,-
300 Russians, says an official statement,
NORTHERN ITALY
TOWNS RAIDED
Austrian Official Statement Says That
Venice and Several Other Places
Were Successfully Bombarded
from the Air.
Berlin, by wireless, June 13. An Aus
trian aeroplane squadron attacked Ven
ice Sunday night, and ' several other
points in northern Italy were bombarded,
according to the Austrian official report,
whioh said that the raids were -successful.
GREECE TO GO BACK
TO PEACE BASIS
King Constantine Has Issued Order Call
ing for Complete Demobiliiation
of the Army.
Athens, June 12, via London June 13.
King Constantine declared to-day an
order to complete the demobilization of
the Greek army.
ALLEN SAYS MOOSE
WILL ENDORSE HUGHES
London, June 13. Comment of English
papers on - the nomination of Justice
Hughes by the Republican party is gen
erally in favor of the justice.
The Mail states that the nomination
of Hughes has divided the Progressive
party, at least, and adds:
"The Republican party has put forth
its strongest candidate."
The Times see? in Hughes a candidate
who will receive the approbation of both
the old guard and the seceding Progres
sives of the G. O. P. The Times char-
acterW Hughes as an "uncompromising
American, firt, last and all the time.
The Evening News finds that the war
comments of Hughes have been vigorous,
but complains because, of their vague
ness. "His statements are not surprising and
furnish good ground for Roosevelt's dic
tum that Hughes is like Wilson, except
for his whiskers," said The News, "but
if the party unites, Wilson will find
Huelies a formidable opponent."
The Globe predicts Wilson's defeat if
Colonel Roosevelt whole heartedly sup
ports Hughes. The Pall Mall Gazette re
fers to Hughes as "perhaps the best rep
resentative of high-minnedness in pol
it ics that could be found, and adds:
Whether he will disclose more sym
pathv for the allies depends upon the ne
gotiations by his managers for the sup
port of Roosevelt."
The Evening Standard sars the Ger
man-Americans rushed to the conclusion
that Hughes' sympathies were with Kng
land's enemies but that the "grounds for
this fear have not been subswntiated.
The Westminster Gazette says: "In
view of Hughes' statement, Roosevelt has
no motive for splitting th3 party and it
is generally assumed that he will use his
nfluence to enlist his fdllowers in a
united attack upon the Democratic posi
tion." ,
I
Carranza uniform bearing the insicnia
of a Carranza lieutenant colonel,' accord
ing to a message received here last night.
One of the bandits taken prisoner iden
tified the body at Webb, Tex., yester
day afternoon as Lieut. Col. Villa real of
the Carranza army.
. , ,.1 j . .. . , T1..11 .11
guard; Llewelyn j. t-g eaton oi ttuimi, brgska D)jly withdiaw his name as a can
the new memoer vi me Wunu, didate. It is reported that President
sentinel.
Over Rumor That City Council Will En
large Water Mains.
Retinues of Board of Trade men, mem-
TALK OF THE TOWN
MORE TROOPS FOR BORDER.
an important battle ground and wanted
the delegates to act as a unit in re
nominating the vice-president. Secre
h.. LJ. AOIHni reiurneu vrsirruar nwin ... . . . , ... , . . . . .
o .1 .-I. 1.. 1... rl.r. " ,B u"ul',"l," l" ""K'"K
uurmii. urjt- ..- -"I""" -. f.h- final draft nf .h nlnnVii t.h.f -ri
. . . i ' . - l.-- I ... .... ...k, vv. v.... ........ .1V
Alex JiacKie, me eiurcs inun, u i -in:- r : t ; j 4
, . lIA l,A . 1 illlll uri-ii'iiL-a pmbu Uli--ii ur
An a mnrflr vpnir p in iiih Lrui'ik iiiif Bn ' . ... - ., . .
IT. S ftAvftramMt will pi.M 1 nn A a. I r m . ' a : ut. y report the convention. , He said
-" "- ice. jnecar was nu.i m uumiiiii-oiun t-,,.. - t.-
, - 11 . iwaaaw v id an sa v 1 ;ui iuiii v 1 uiu 1 wi v-
nifinnJil .VnlHlrai waal I- 11 .
' I . ... IIJAmoorfltJi tn tret most of fchi FroerM-
. I " r T i Tt.l..MT17k.4IKj-i nn am - I ' r " o
Washington, D. C, June 13. With 1.- -wrs. u. u. .giey . 1 ,'ves. who are not satisfied with the
500 additional regular troops ordered to ,nK w nays in narre nun ,r a.u8..- chic, y.,. he cUimed.
.. . . . . . . -. I . . . I .. I .' . I... a m.mha, 1,10
tne UPVimn hnrrinr la.t nitrht a-iH r. li -Vila Jll la --v. Kiel, n"-""" 1 I
ports of the rapid spread of anti-Arner- tne faculty at Spauidmg nign scnooi.
Mrs. Gordon Watson and little daugh
consuls all over northern Mexico, admin- 's Dorothy E. Watson of Maple
' 1 ij : t r a
straf nn mail n- .Hmnt 4 avenue, are passme venw ny in nn
rlirr,,la, thir ,: it ... .a. ford as the truests 01 .Mr. and Mrs. w. t..
mitted that there is urowin alarm over Jiumpnrey, wno rormeriy resiaeu m una
uhflL tTlP sttriskicn mmv rwruhiom mnA thai CUT
possibility of an attack on General F. J. Donahue, who is at the present
Pei-ahi-itr' vnHit in-i I time making a map or rarre m tne inter'
Xn nf mttmnV .-or.,,-,. f t of the Sanborn Map company of Kew
Aiti.rin in 1,,. un Vnrk, returned to the city yesterday,
reported, although there have been one epennjnR several aays in juame-
or two attacks on vacant consulates and mxTf w,ln nlH "f"''
Wilson sent word ho regarded Indiana as . Ixr ," S n r , ' .
,-, uin. L." j h" of the Granite Manufacturers', Quar
riers and Merchants associations win
not descend upon the city council to
night. This much was decided to-day,
after it had been announced that the
varied interests represented in the fore
going category would meet in the peo
ple's room at city hall to urge action in
the matter of providing more water
mains and bcter all-around facilities for
fighting fire. It is said that the granite
men, merchants and prol'es-sional men
have been placated bv the promise that
action is just around the corner and will
be reached within a few days.
Since the visit of Xew Kngland Insur
ance Exchange engineers in Barre last
HUGHES EMPHASIZES
TITG A AfPPTP 1JTCAT I April, there has been n undercurrent of
HIS JiUCjl.iKjAlLZ)Jl feeling that steps to correct certain
Declares That His Attitude Is That of
Undiluted Americanism and Nothing
Else Oscar S. Strauss Pledges
Support for Him.
Xew. York, June 13. Charles E
other American nponertv I fcdeon u. under, wno went to Hughes, answering newspapermen s ques
. . 11. It . 1 X 11 ,. . . .4 ...4t.. 1 11. 1: 1. : .j - . 1 ,l.
fart of the increasing appreherision " ' .-n- win irgiumn Hutuw
here is due to the renewed raids in the Mnt tmMnMS nrr n' interest in support offered mm by trerman-Amert
and Mrs. G. W. Lander of South Main
I street.
James Donahue, who designated Pitts-
TALK OF THE TOWN
The Convention Gave the National Com
mittee the
Power.
St. Louis. June 1.1. Henry Allen of
Kansas, Progressive national committee
man, reached here yesterday and an
nounced with apparent authority that
the Progres-ive national committee
would nominate or indorse Charles K.
Hughes for president after accepting Col.
Roosevelt's declination. As the Progres.
sive convention passed a resolution jut
before adjourning to allow the national
committee to fill any vacancies occurring
on the tnket the nomination of Charles
E. Hughes by the Progressives seem to
be a feasible solution of the Repubiican
Progresive situation. The Progressive
mnvention did n"t have an opportunity
In declare itelf ctenric41v ssrainst Mr.
hughes as the question with the justice
a candidate was put on the table.
Mr. Allen aid that while the lYrgres
iive national eommitte would accept
Hughes the Republican vi.-prpsiden-tiaj
nndniate, Charles W. Fairbanks, is
to he rejected. The intention is t keep
the Progreiv Mssiaee. tl. Parker of
Louisiana, in t-he fielrl and by this man
if possible t" maintain t!:e Progr-ne
orgnizati-n.
Te Bu!14og and tbe T;;r irtt for
the third time this year at Newark. X. J,
next Wedneiday. It that the fur
might ffr and tr amili b a l)tt
grow !ing' if S old P ;:H-g t-as th fgi.t
in h m that Le las bad ia the pt
Verdi Bruno, a North Main street mer
chant, is detained at his home by a se
vere attack of sciatica.
Mrs. Clayton Blake and son, Layton,
of St. Albans stopped in Barre yester-
lay on their way to Washington to visit
relatives.
Amasa Campbell and D. E. Hurley of
Oneida,. X. Y., returned to their honies
this morning, after attending the funeral
Of O. X'. Canton.
An important meeting of the Barre
Granite Manufacturers' association will
be held at headquarters this evening at
7:30 O'clock. The presence of every
member is desired.
Mrs. Carrie Brooks and daughter, Miss
Stella Brooks, a member of the faculty
at Spaulding high school, left the city
to-day for (Jreat Chebengue, Me., where
they are to spend the summer.
Miss Ruth Morse, a student at Mt.
If dyoke college, is visiting her friend,
Miss Bertena Hooker, of Park street be
fore going to her home in Hartford,
Conn., where she will spend a greater
part of her vacation.
Representatives of the Tsvlor-Crifch-
field Clsgne agency of Chicago, including
business agents and artists, met the ad
vertising committee of the Barre Granite
A Qusriier' o'iation this morning on
a matter relative to a proposed change in
the granite advertising campaign.
Richard Happsla of Han-e was arreted
yeterday by Oime Warden Charles
Keith of Xorth Seminary street on a
charge of violating the game laws. Tn
M"ntpelicr city court, which ha jurisdic
tion over Berlin, where the ofTene was i
committed, the respondent entered a plea
of guilty and paid a f.i fine and costs. It
was alleged by the game warden, on
bre complaint the rret waa made,
that Happala caught bs in Berlin pnd
during the rioted season.
From Burlington to-day came t!ie
Standard Oil Co.'s motorized sprinkler
that ill be used to daub the city streets
with oil. There is a eontrai-t made with
the city council for dropping oil oer 25.
eviO 'iare yards of street surface in
Barre and it i ponh!e that the contract
may be extended before the pressure
prir.K!er leaves town. The sprinkler
tren anchored in frmt of Hotel Parre on
Wah-r.gtnn street rear nmn to day. tar
ried for Ote rK-rtday meal, and po e-1 d
-t ni itg!tii wi'nn early !!
a'terririn. rnt'r a roi'eher of rnadi
iri ere raped in sn;i ipt.eB ol tne
fprir kWt int. .
Laredo region. Officials gave the im
pression of having reason to believe a
enous purpose was behind the bandit
raid on the Coleman ranch. Three raid
ers were killed and three captured, one
report said, adding that they attempted
to burn a railroad bridge near Laredo
K,,l. f,l.(
The new force sent to join General M"? arraigned before Magistrate H.W.
t-., .. v..j. M...i Scott in city court this morning. Dona-
said, was to fill in gaps in the guard such hun.went to j.81.1 for " ya instead of
as that near Laredo. It will be composed v "
of ten companies of coast artillery and M" t .' .. - v 1 t t, I
a battalion of encrineers. The artillery '"",on -ic. ic.,.. 01 00.1 on, rcprr
men
tions
ui. j i, in Ko.. tising campaign
ant. 'in this eit.v The sretarv said of Brr F1' ,atp in the winter, ar
the Baltimore cafe several months ago, cans, said:
arrived in the city this morning to pass 'T stated my position very clearly in
the week at the home of his parent, Mr. I my telegram "to the convention. My
attitude is one of undiluted Americanism
and anybody that supports me is sup
nortinff an out-and-out American and an
r. . . . ! , 1 ) . .. . ...
neid, atass., as nis resiacnce. pieaaea out-and-out American policy, absolutely
guilty to a nrst onense or mioxicaiion nothing else.
Oscar S. Strauss, a former Progressive
candidate for governor of Xew York, sent
a telegram to-day pledging his support
It was announced from the Hughes
headquarters ' to-day that moving pic
tures will be used in the campaign in or-
become familiar
will be withdrawn from fortifica- anting the Taylor-CTitchfield-aague to., der that the public may
1 between Portland, Me., and Sandy h.lch in cTf of h" !a,t"n1aJver" Hughes.
. .-j i, -i.o k... tising campaign launched in the interests
there was no present intention of call
ing out additional Xational Guard reg
iments for border duty.
rived in the city this morning and Is WTf.SlYV AT WP,ST POINT
uying at notei narre. inner aavenia-1
FOR GRADUATION
BRYAN MAY MAKE TROUBLE.
ing men who accompanied Mr. MacXlchol
are Henry C. Glover and D. W. Anders.
W. A. Cutler, who failed to qualify as
town grand juror of Barre Town this
Report That He Will Try to Precipitate P'"' J1" T? ur( b? Frank Tuck
1 . . er. the selectmen having made the an
Fignt on iTepareaness rianit. pointment a short time ago. Mr. Cutler's
St. Louis, June 13. There are uncon-1 failure to qualify was taken as en auto
firmed reports that William J. Bryan, matic resignation and a respite from du
thouch not a delegate, will find some way ties that have urown more and more
to precipitate a convention right on the arduous in recent years. For 19 years Hson arrived this morning to attend
preparedness plank, but no one of hrt htr. Cutler discharged the duties of the the gradustion exercises of the military
friends here are in a position to say how office with credit to himself and In a academy, hen the yacht Mayflower
Was Greeted with the Salute of 21 Guns
and the Yacht Mayflower Responded
Mrs. Wilson Accompanied
the President.
West Point, X. Y., June 13. President
he might touch on the issue in a convex
tion in which he is not a delegate. Mr.
Bryan will be able to address the con
vention only with the unanimous consent
of 1.002 delegates, and he mny not oc
cupy a seat on the floor of the conven
tion unless both a delegate and his alter
nate retire and give him their proxy.
manner wholly satisfactory to the town carrying the president and Mrs. Wilson
BAKER IS WILSON'S ENVOY.
fathers
A two-ton safe, the product of a foun
dry in Hamilton. O., was unloaded in
front of the Al lrich building this morn
ing and then transferred to the law of
fices of J. Ward Carver by Frank G.
Rogers and his helpers. Door leading
to the seeond-ntory vestibule had to be
removed in order to move the safe up
stairs. Attorney Carver states thst the
importation of the big repository waa
not precipitated by bold burglaries in
Barre and Williamstown recently, as he
provided for the preparedness measure
The safe is so con-
Secretary Will Be President's Personal
Representative at St. Louis.
Washington, June 13. Secretary of
War Baker will be President Wilson's
personal representative at the Democratic I several weeks ago.
national convention. He left last night 1 structed as to permit the filing of valu
for St. Ixuiis, carrying with him a prae-leble papers, etc.
ically complete draft of a platform, m- Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Humphrey, former
eluding several of the more important residents of Barre. were tendered a joy-
planks written by the president himself ous surprise party at their home in Hart-
for the consideration of the platform ford Saturday evening, when as many as
committee. 00 people, neighbors and other acquain-
It had been planned to have the presl- fanees. gathered at their farm to assist
dent represented by the ran chosen to them in celebrating their 20th wedding
succeed William F. MK'ombs as chairman snniversarv-.- Wither the bride nor the
of the national Democratic committee.
This selection baa been delayed, however,
and it was decided to send Secretary
Baker.
As.oriafed with him in looking after
the president's interets will he Senators
Iame. Hughes and Stone, Representative
poremus and Frederick W. Steckman,
publicity manager of the Democratic na
tional committee. Fred Lynch, chairman
of the executive committee of the na
tional committee, and Homer Cummings.
vice-chairman of the committee, also will
keep in close touch with the devires of
the president.
BREAK AVERTED
And Railroad Wage Question Still TJnder
Discussion.
groom of 20 years ago had a.i inkling of
what wis in prospect until the premises
were invaded by teams and autos. Much
merriment prevailed and one of the
pleasing features came when the spokes
man for those assembled presented the
couple two easy chairs and a shirtwaist
box for Mrs. Humphrey. Refreshments
of punch snd wnfers were aerved before
the gathering dispersed. Mr. and Mrs.
Humphrey moved from Barre to Hart
ford two years ago. While here Mr.
HumphreT was employed at the foundry
of Smith, Whitcomb A
Among the visitors in the Hfy Tester-
day and to-day were the foltawing peo
ple: .Tamea P. Taylor of Burlington, sec
retary of the Greater Vermont asocia
tion. who is registered at Hotel Rarre;
H. M. Spindle of St. .Inhnsburv. Mrs. I
Xew York. June 12. The threatened Jr.. Rielev of Piitland. Mr. and Mrs. John
break rtween the representatives of the
railroads and their employe over wage
adjustments was averted, temporarily, at
leat. yesterday afternocn when the rail
rr.i announced that their counter prop
osition submitted yesterrfciy tnorntrg
need not b onsidered as merely terta-
ti'.
Th ercrbvre representative agreed Miss Manon (adv of XortH Hero
to d scuss it with that uolerstasiirj;. p.. IvLie f Glnf Falls. Y.
II. Moore rf Post on. J. F. Consnt of
Hsrdwi.k. W. E Garthwaite of Burling
ton. WiHiam G il cf St. Iohnbnrr, F. S.
True of Rutland. Mr. and Mrs. G. S. Nor
ton of TVtn. J. A. GrecnwwJ of Ches
ter. Mi Alice Marvel and Mi F.d'th
XhV cd R'ir!mfft.n. Arthur F. Morrow
of TVot- n. C. C. Muproe of pr
anchored in the Hudson, off the academy
grounds, the national salute of 21 guns
was fired and was answered from the
yacht. A troop ot artillery men escort
ed the party to the parade grounds.
President llson in his address dis
cussed prepsredness, militarism, Amer
icanism, the cause ot the war in l-.urope.
Monroe doctrine, divided allegiance and.
American ideals. He declared that It is
the imperative duty of the Cnited States
to be prepared, adding that mankind is
going to know thst when America speaks
she means what she says, lie said that
the United States should not be a blus
tering nation with a chip on its shoulder,
but calm nation which will withhold its
hand a long as possible and etrike only
for victory.
The president's address ran through
almost the entire list of subjects dis
cussed by Hughes in his telegram ac
cepting the Republican nomination, and
he declared that the I'nited States is j
ready to join with the other nations to
see that the kind of justice it believes in
is given. Shaking his finger emphatical
ly, he told his audience that nobody who
doesn't put America first can be tolerat
ed but he added that true Americans
should set the example.
Wilson declared that the present war
did not come by accident but bad to
come. I he i niten iate warns noining
from Europe, he said, and there is noth
ing she wints which she must get by
war. The speaker sounded a warning
that no man can tell what the next day
will bring forth. ,
short-comings in the water and tire de
partments should not be delayed. Thus
far, the city council has not achieved any
tangible results, although it i stated
that a report from the engineers has been
in Barre for several weeks. Precautions
taken .at Washington, D. C, to preserve
the Declaration of Independence in the
shaded archives of the capitol, according
to the facetious statement of one au
thority, have been adopted at city hall
with such success that the engineering
document probably will be preserved in
definitely.
Recently, however, a heavy consign
ment of pipe wss ordered for the water
department and several main extensions
are projected in the stoneshed districts.
PUT UNDER ARREST.
Man Who Is Said to Have Violated Con
ditions of Parole.
Burlington, June 13. Charles E. S.
Wheeler, also known as Howard E.
Smith, was arrested here yesterday on
comglaint of a detective bureau acting
for the American Bankers association,
harged with violation of his parole from
the state prison at Windsor.. It is al
leged that after being released four
nvmths ago. Wheeler first lectured as a
reformed convict and then returned to
the use of false cheeks to support him
self. Complaints of such frauds in Chi
cago. Detroit and St. -Paul were made
by the police.
ALFALFA MEETING.
Will Be Held at George McFarland's June
15.
George McFarland of South Barre is
cutting the first crop, this year, from his
Ifalfa field. All thon- who are inter
ested in alfalfa and its culture are in-
ited to visit the field Thursday aft
ernoon, June 1.5, at I ::10 when a part oi
the crop will be in the process of cur-
ng. County Agent F. H. Abbott will be
present and will take up the allaita
growing in considerable detail. Come and
see for yourself wnat mis crop is worm.
The success of alfalfa and vetch is well
illustrated by the heavy crop that C. C.
Fletcher bus just cut from a five-acro
patch on his farm in Shelhurne, the Ezra
Meech farm. The cutting was made
May 20. It stood .10 inches tall and was
very thick ami even. It was sowed in
1014 and wa cut three times last year.:
This is undoubtedly the best piece of
its sire in Chittenden county and has
leen pronounced to be perhaps the best
n the state.
Come to the meeting t Mr. McFar
land's Thursday and look the proportion
over.
Yours very truly.
F. II. "Abbott.
County Agricultural Agent.
SMELTERS ARE STARTED.
Another CorP" rilne tn Vermont Re
sumes Operations.
White River Junction. June 13. The
Vermont Copper company began opera
tions yesterday in the mines and at the
smelting works in Strafford. The work"
will run on a 21 hour schedule with three lenterinj the I nion fore are ore and tb
Booty valued at $100 r
en from the clothing n
of . H. Rogers xmietime early
this morning, the buTtar gaining en
trance to the store through' a rear win
dow. Xot content with rifling two cash
registers to the extent of $33.13. the
thief deliberately -proceeded to invest
himself in a new suit of clothes, took
the precaution to assure himself before a
mirror that the new summer apparel fit
ted perfectly, and then rummaged
through the shoe, department until he
found a chic pair of tan boots. To com
plete the outfit he selected a cap and ap
parently did not spurn a quantity of jew
elry in one of the showcases.
This nocturnal visitor made slick
getaway probably hours before the break
was discovered by clerks who opened the
store at 6:30 o'clock. The police are in
clined to associate the merchandisinc
burglar with the disappointed knicht of
tho jimmy who ran into ill luck at the
Williamstown poBtofiko Monday morn
ing, although nothing but surmise links
the two affairs together. Evidently the
burglar carried a kit with him, for a
crescent-shaped hole was cut in the win
dow of the office, a hole laree enough tf
permit the burglar to enter his hand and
unlatch the s'.ish. It was smooth sailing
thereafter and the thief must have gone
about his work without haste.
There are no clues that are likely to
lead to the immediate detection of" tho
burglar. There were traces enough of
his work this morning, but they were not
of the tangible sort that the police like
to speculate over. True, the thief dis
carded a worn-out blue suit in exchange
for an outfit tint retailed for $25, and in
place of a pair of &5 shoes, he left foot-w-ear
that has seen better days. Immedi-
ately to the right of the north entrance
from the street is a case containing jew
elry, neckwear and other sundries. The
thief filled his pockets with watch chain,
pocket knives, era vat' brooches and but
tons for the collwr and cuffs. Empty
boxes once filled with jewelry of the
kind usually handled in clothing stores
were scattered promiscuously about the
floor.
In the pockets of the discarded trous
ers and coat were found fresh neckwear
from the store stock. Obviously the bur
glar had helped himself before the desirw
to change his clothes directed him to a
rack from which hung many suits. Xob
in his haste, for there is nothing to show-
that the fellow hurried, but in a moment
of forgetf ulness. no doubt, he neglected
to transfer the ties to his new apparel.
Not so with the money, if the cih reg
ister raid was made before he changed
his garb, for the pockets of the old cloth
ing contained no coin this morning.
Vanity turns up in some unexpected
places. After selecting from stock tho
weave and coloring that satisfied his fas
tidious taste, the burglar went to tho
full-length mirror in the rear of the storo
and proceeded to array himself. Tag
ind cost slips attached to the suit were
dropped in front of the glass as the thief
surveyed himself. I'nless he had the au
dacity to turn on the electric lights, ho
must Jiave been able to rely upon tho
breaking of the dnv to make his wav
bout the premises. The same care used
in selecting the suit was reflected in tho
choice of shoes, tis several pairs were left
on the shelf ledse. The thief left through
the window used when he entered.
Police headquarters Wis notified ai
soon as the break was discovered and an
investigation was in rrrgres this morn
ing. The store was closed around 0
o'clock last night and from that hour un
til opening time this morning none of the
clerks were in the building. Cleiks ac
counted for the fact that money was left
in the cash registers by aying tint sev
eral fairly large sales were made at:T
accounts for the dav had been checked up
before closing time List night. I'suallv
the monev. apart from a litile change, i
transferred to the safe ip t lie office, w hi ll
was left untouched by the burgf.ir. Mon
ey and clothing taken represented loot of
.iii und it is thought that enough more
was taken, including the jewelry, it
bring the tof.il up to !ftO or more.
Examination of the clothes left by the
visitor disclosed a very fine texture itt
the cloth. The owner hsd tiken pains
to remove the libel inscribed with tho
maker's nime. A box of Helmar cigar
ettes was found in one of the coat pick
ets. Another Attempted Breik.
Purglars had deign. on the I'nin Pn'
(roods store in the Currier block, seres
the street from the Roger store, as a
evi. fenced this morninz when it was dis
covered thst a good sired hole had been
broken in one of the rear windows. No
entrant was niv!e. If the pcr"n hi
committed the burglary across t?-e street;
and tiie n:n who gale nn the ta-k of
HE'S FOR HUGHES.
Meyer, Roosevelt Adherent, Declares for
the Candidate.
Chicago. June 13. f.eorge Von L. Mey
er former cabinet member and supporter
of Colonel Roosevelt for the Republican
presidential nomination, issued a state-!
rntrritir in which he enrtorel men were rrese
Btatem'ent made bv Charles E. Huzh- ! w ork. anv-rig
shifts of workmen. Electric power will
be transmitted from the plant of the
Sharon Power company in Sharon, ei' t
mile distant from the mine.
A force of 40 ni-n sre employed tn
mines and at the mclting work. .At
present there are .VCert t-.n of ore ready
for smelting. hi h wi! be done un !r
the direction of Profes-r l.eorge .
(.iiess of Toronto, tint., w hd i a well
known smelter
sani", failure in the latter place vny b-
attributed to over-evert ion.
FR0M1XENT MEN EXPECTED
To rartiripste in Graduation Exercises
at Lyndon.
l.vndonvilV. lune 1.1 K.s Pre...;rnt
Tatt ! fi Sc'Tftary of Azrwultuie
expeit. Manv prominent j lames U i'mn are eve.-te1 to be present
nt at the opening "i Cie'at tie graduation encnises of Lyndon
lie. V- J irst tute ami t!e Theo.-5..re X. ail S. ho.,l
Son a ;
M.
tn his letter of acceptance. Jscber of New ork City and ivt fni-
"I believe with concerted action by a!I;!ent of the Tern"nt o,,j.r ,,-.-.-- e .
Iingfon. I opposed to tfe rreent administration wejlfe i also t!e .f .V,git H.-.W-H. r.
and H. can elect Mr. Hughe our nit president." the Xew Yo-k ctp-taU-t an t preiicrit ot
be said. the Xew jet .oc cctr-si!.
ot Arwii.ture. 1 1- h W.'I take j "a,-e in
'!.isic h"l fn.iv ewnitcf. ,A hereto,
i tte. tle p. hn! will ) n in the es'rr -.
y.cs... Ttt n-i i'm.o a r m t:-
g -,,,t, .,t Mr. Vi I.
