V
WEATHER. k 4 ^ 1QT "From Preee to Horn*
Parti3* cloudy and colder tonigrht: I . . ? A . ^ . A . ^ B, . (Twil ?* * ? ??
temperature M Im ^Lj^k A/ H /IV M .... - . m mm
? M I j ' g^B my Wj l/n I lT^ BBT I \?T uUUl Within the Hour'
H . I fl ^Br rm B IB ur III I I I I I /\ I * I ?S&
four hours. Highest, at 3:30 p.m. W J M M W mr / ^ ? __ i
yesterday: noon today. f a a / M , I, , & A H . ^ M . He . '
Full on page /^Hlv ^U
, i-..' ? 1 I ^ J " ^ ^ * T T 7 _, y f 1 m ' r* mtM *?* Olieslatlu. M.tk X DwraWr,
CI.OSINCJ NEW VORK STOCKS PACE Zl. ^ ' >' Dsllr StWKA MiEll SuRay. EAR.
^ _
No. 20,215. * WASHINGTON, D. C.. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1916.?TWENTY-FOUR PAGES. ** ONE CENT.
? " - . ... , I, : _ ; . - ; ??
LINER APPAM. CAPTURED (
WHO SANK SEVEN OTHE
BROUGHT TO HAMF
j
451 PERSONS AKUAK1);
TAKEN OFF CANARIES
British Vessel, Bound From Africa to
England, Halts When Shot
Crosses Her Bow.
RAIDER IS EXTREMELY ACTIVE
IN ITS WORK OF DESTRUCTION
I 1
High Colonial Officials and Many Women and Children
on Appam, Which Was Believed Lost and Which
Puts In American Port as "Cruiser."
NEWPORT NEWS, Va., February i.?The British passenger;
liner Appam, which had not been heard from since January 15, four;
days out from Dakar, British West Africa, for Plymouth, England, j
and for whose safety grave apprehension had been expressed in Brit- i
ish shipping circles, arrived in Hampton roads this morning at 6145
o'clock in charge of a prize crew of twenty, commanded by Lieut. 1
Berge of the German navy, which was placed aboard the Appam 1
when she was captured off the Canary Islands by a German raider.
The vessel flew the German man-of-war flag.
There were a total of 451 persons aboard the Appam, including
the surviving members of the crews of seven other ships sunk by
the submarine which captured the Appam, and twenty German
civilians, who were being transported from Africa to England to be
placed in detention camps. The persons on board the Appam were
listed as follows: Original members of Appam's crew, 155; original
passengers on the Appam, 116: German prisoners bound for British;
detention camps. 20: survivors of ships destroyed, 138: prize crew, 22.
A large percentage of the number on board the Appam are
women and children, and, it is said, several high colonial officials
who were returning to England from Africa. There are also on
board the captured steamer four wounded sailors, who were taken
from one of the sunken ships which resisted capture and was shelled.
The names of the steamers sunk by the raider which captured
the Appam are given as the Trader, Arthur, Corbridge, Ariadne,
Dromondy, Farringford and Clan McTavish.
I
I It is also declared now that the raider was the German cruiser ^
Move, instead of a submarine.
_ r;?- "Btilc ! from Collector Hamilton, no one in alPassengers
Line nans. > |ow<)1 on or n,ar ,he Appam. f;uard,
Th. passengers and captured crew, , are at the rail, on every side and no
1 , ... tv,ta mnr*!- gangplank Ih down. hfforts to coinlined
the rails of the App ^ ' municate with any of the passengers
i?ig a* lay ahout a quarter or a fron, Hniall boats encircling the steammile
off the old Point dock, and ap-;,.r were fruitless.
peare*i to evince great int?rr.r ,n th Cannon Mounted on Bow.
hurried developments following the
unheralded arrival of the ship in The Appam has one three-pounder
Hampton roads. mounted on her bow, but whether this
According to the information gleaned was on board before her capture or
from those who had talked with IJeut. was mounted by the Germans could not
Berge, in rharge of the prize crew, ithe J>e a8Certained. She was brought in
ofP re"i fl ta"m:e*Jmir15. "the^TaVthat under the German man-of-war flag InBritish
news reports said wireless com- Htead of the German merchant flag,
munication with the vessel and her name was given to the-quar.nun.
oB?r .? "S. M S. Appam."
et which captured the Appam gave meaning the German warship Appam,
chase to another British steamer jg said
which was hound for Australia with ai
irargo of meat, The meat ?hip gav? When seen on his way to pay his rebattle
and n sunk, hut not a spects to (!oI. Havnes Lieut. Ber^e relarge
portion of her cargo had been * R
taken off for use by the Germans. fused to talk. Asked by the Associated
Six more vessels were destroyed in Press correspondent for information,
rap.d succession, it was stated, and he mereiy shook his head, and when
t * crews taken on board the Appam, I
which was then headed across the At- spoken to oy Consul von Schilling in
Untie for Hampton roads Th.- run ' "man the lieutenant replied: "N'oth-to
thia port war made w ithout incident, ' '* 10 ,no.,l lnKTa>' He a
!, * small man of slight build, with a small
mustache, and in very pleasant, though
Held to Be German "Cruiser." non-communlcatlve.
Whether the German commander is
When the Appam came within the desirous of interning as a German manVirginia
capes early morning and of-war. or whether he is merely asking
c irginia ape > ? refuge as a merchant ship could not be
100k on a piiot it was asked by the ascertained, but it is the belief of those
Fort Monroe wireless station who she who have talked with Gieut. Berge lhat
?a- Thr reply was. it I* stated, that he ha" b"e" instructed to intern as a
,, _ , German converted cruiser,
it was the German cruiser Buffalo.
When she arrived off old Point, j Question to Be Settled.
?4vjarantin? Officer H W M< < affer> , Th^ a||.|rnportant question to be setwent
aboard and after his inspection ||ed s#y naya| offlcera h(.r(,_ ja wh
pam^L.'-g'vV,,B:rc^ mrM of h^.^: " ?->*?' '*/*? "?? ? >? ri?h, to bring
the four wounded sailors being the i!t * prize of war as a German warship,
-.illy cases ot sickness found This probably will he discussed at the
Dr Mci'sfferj got i" touch with the conference with Collector Hamilton
German consul. U Marshall von Nchill- ... , . ... , , ,
I tig. of Hampton, and the latter was whh h is stheduled to take place in Nor
,on 'in the scene at old Point. I.leut. folk at about 2 o'clock this afternoon.
Rerge then placed himself under the Following the conference between
consul's orders and they proceeded to
the ofllce of Col. Ira Haynes, com- and Consul von .Schilling
Imandant of Fort Monroe, where the at Hampton they returned to Old Point
[German officer paid his reapects. and. al),i Lieut. Berge went aboard the Anil
is said, explained why he had given pani.
Ithe wireless station the name of the Within a few minutes he returned to
I'lermsn cruiser Buffalo the dock at Old Point, attired In his
[ civilian's clothes, snd he and the cpunI
Inform Washington Embassy. ?c| ten for Norfolk, via Ocean View at
| ? a 1 o e r- ,r' Th'* Wl11 PU' lh"m 1,1 N'OrfolK
I I.leut Berge and < onsul von Schill- about I 20. and they will lunch with
n? sent a number of measures to the l-ollector Hamilton at t "'-1--'- - '
? -> - - | ? - " ? "A*, ii iM
>rman pmba?*y nt Washington and i understood. The ultimate disposition
.. , of tlie Appam will in all probability be
iter had conversations over the IonK decW?, ,7 thU conference y
(jftance telephone with tiie embassy
ind also Collector of the i'ort Norman Tries to Establish Status.
I Hamilton, at Norfolk. From the collector Hamilton stated over the lone
?rt. the lieutenant and <orisul went to , . , . ? fo
H. von Schilling's office at Hampton. <M*tanrr telephone at l.':30 that he la in
vbere they wer?? in close conference, communication with Washington Jn an e[.
ind from Hampton the>^planned to go fort to establish the status of the Anpain,
10 ^Norfolk .o confer with Collector Ham- u t? whMh#!L.h. to ta, considered a
r
1y germans
:r vessels,
ton roads
nu/urnn nr inn a a/i !
imnt? ur mm
MAY GET SHIP BACK
Legal Procedure Definite if
Vessel Is Merely Seized
Merchantman.
SERIOUS TASK TO FIX
STATUS OF STEAMER
Liner's Capture Without Loss of
Life Strengthens TJ. S. Position
in U-Boat Warfare Controversy.
Perplexing questions of international
law may arise from the
arrival of the Appam in Hampton
roads today.
First, the United States must
determine whether the ship simply
is a prize of war or whether
she lias been supplied with any
armament which would give her
the character of an auxiliary
cruiser. So far as naval authorities
here know no case exactlylike
it has arisen to concern the
United States since the beginning ;
of the war. The German ships
Kronprinz Wilhelm and the
Prince Mitel Friedrich, which
took refuge in Hampton roads
early in the war, were auxiliarycruisers
and now are interned as
such. <
Hague Convention Provisions.
The Hague convention provides:
"A prize may only be brought into a
neutral port on account of unseaworthiness,
stress of weather or want of
fuel or provisions. ,
"It must leave as soon as the cir- .
c
cumstances which Justify its entry are
at an end. If it does not, the neutral 1
power must order it to leave at once; ?
should it fail to obey, the neutral j
power must employ the means at its
disposal to release it with its officers
and crew and to intern the prize crew."
In case the Appam can be considered
as an auxiliary cruiser she is entitled 1
under international law to a certain t
length of time to make ayy necessary j
repairs and load enough coal and provisions
to carry her to the nearest f
home port. f
May Be Returned to Owners.
In any event, officials here regard it *
as a foregone conclusion that the ?
Appam will remain in Hampton roads
until the end or the war. British c
cruisers, patrolling the Atlantic lanes c
of commerce, probably already advised 1
of the arrival of the Appam, will be
steaming for the Virginia capes to 1
guard the entrance outside the three- ?
mile limit. As a merchant ship she
could remain voluntarily in port, and
the only question for the L'nitied States
to determine would be the disposition |
of her German prize crew and the priss- |
oners of war which the ship carries.
The probabilities are that if the Ap- |
pant still has the character of a merchantman
and her prize crew does not
elect to "ake the risk of running the
gantlet of British cruisers outside, the
customs collector will take charge of
her and after probably interning her
prize crew would return the ship to
her owners.
Strengthens Position of U. S.
The exploit of the German commander
in. placing a crew from a submarine
aboard a merchant ship and sailing her
into port without loss of life of passengers
or crew may have a bearing on
the submarine controversy between the
I'nitpH Staffs uni\ Cormo ...
? ? ?vi niaiij. nume ?jI - J
ficials were inclined to regard the feat j
as added evidence to support the contention
of the United States that even
under modern conditions of naval warfare
a submarine can capture a ship
without loss of life.
The Supreme Court, in a decision announced
in 1902. which may bear on the
disposition of the Appam. held:
"Until condemnation captors acquire
no absolute right of property in a prize
and it is for the government
to determine when the public interests
require a different destination."
A provision of the American naval
war code, which is held applicable to
the Appam .case, says:
"The principles that enemy goods and
ships are liable to seizure being at
present admitted, there can be little
objection raised to placing the national
Hag of the capturing vessel ovv.r a
seized vessel belonging to a belligerent.
It does pass in good prize *.o the
state of the captor upon capture. Jt
is brought in for adjudication."
Many Legal Difficulties.
Officials here attach importance to
the question of whether the Appam
was in the service of the British government
or was opesatlng as a privately
owned and controlled merchant vessel.
In case it was in the governmental
service, .they said, the vesseT upon capture
by an enemy wouTd become the
enemy's legal property, and would be
treated by a neutral as a man-of-war.
CA<->uiurv l,An?insr uutH I a...
cms* would involve considerable investigation
before any action by this
Kovf-rnmeiit waH taken. There was
nothing to do, he said, until the validity
of the capture wan determined.
inasmuch as the Appam is the first
case since the beginning of the firesen
i war where a priae had been
brought into an American port, o/ll- I
cials said there would be a careful
study of the subject bi all phasee, go
that wh^n a decision la reached It may
be used as a precedent.
' 1
>23
LONDON DENIES BRITAIN
HAS ASKED FOR PEACE
Official Statement in Answer to Reports
Attributed to German
Sources.
_ j
LONDON. February 1, 2:38 p.m.?Official
lenial was made here today of reports,
ittributed to German sources, that
England intends to abandon her allies
tnd has made peace overtures to Gernany.
The statement follows:
"The German chancellor has stated
hat England is compelling her allies
o refrain from entering upon any
>eace movement. This statement, which
>ur allies know to be untrue, was made
or the purpose of injuring England in
he eyes of neutrals.
"To our allies, on the other hand, we
lear that insidious and untrue reports
ire being circulated from German
lources that England intends to abanlon
them and has even made peace
>vertures to Germany which have been
efused. The two statements together
Lre a good illustration how unscrupuous
German methods are."
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Senate:
Met at noon.
Resumed debate on Philippine
j bill.
Naval committee deferred action j
oil government armor piaie piani
bill.
Military committee heard Senator ;
Cummins on his bill to reorganize
the Natlonai Guard.
House:
Met at noon.
Military and naval committees
continued hearings on prepared- j
ness program.
Indian appropriation bill discus- J
sion continifed.
Judiciary committee heard
men representatives of anti-woman
suffrage associations In opposition
to woman suffrage constitutional
amendment. j
Surgeon General Blue and others
urged federal financial aid for Indigent
tuberculosis patients.
Hearing on proposed mixed flour i
legislation held before ways and '
means committee.
DISTRICT IN CONGEESS.
j
Senate:
A t>i 11 providing: for the eatab- i
| lisbme-nt of a university of the
United States in the District of j
Columbia was introduced by
Senator Dillingham of Vermont.
The annual reports of* the
Washington <ias Eight Company, j
the Capital Traction Company,
the Washington Railway and
Electric Company, the Chesapeake
and Potomac Telephone
Company, the Potomac Electric
Power Company, the City and !
Suburban Railroad Company and
the Georgetown and Tennallytown
Railroad Company were
submitted to the Senate.
Senator Smith of Maryland,
chairman. and Senators Lea.
Owen, Robinson. Gallinger, Dillingham
and Curtis were appointed
the subcommittee of the
Senate appropriation committee
on the District appropriation
bill.
Honar: .
Tha Msttia* nilfrlrt onmmll i
today h^ard Theodore W. Noyes
hi opposition to the District
Commissioners* bill proposing: a
change in the manner of appointing
Public Library officials;
Commissioner Newmtfc gave reasons
for the change, and various
other hills were discussed by
Representative ^togajand Judge
Latimer of the Juvenile Court.
\
'
I
U. S. SUBMARINE KIS
SAFEOFF MIAN
Report of Vessel Received i
Navy Department
Early Today .
The submarine K-5 is safe and pr
ceeding under her own steam for K
West, F1 a., according to a naval rae
message received at the Navy Depai
ment early today from Capt. Simps
of the torpedo boat destroyer Sterre
The message, which came by the w
of Key West, said:
"At 3:35 a.m. l\ S. S. K-5 five mil
southeast Fowey ock, steaming sou
at ten knots. No casualties and
assistance required."
Fowey rock, referred to in the me
sage, is a lighthouse and is locat
about ten miles from Miami.
Navy Department officials estimat
that under the speed the K-5 is ma
ing she should reach Key West abo
6 p.m. today.
The Sterrett was one of the destro
ers ordered by Secretary Daniels
I search for the K-5.
Is Making Good Time.
I The K-5 has been making good tii
on her southward voyage without cc
sort.
Anxiety was felt for her safety as s
had become detached from the submari
tender Tallahassee and her three sis
ships, the K-1, K-- and K-6, Sund
morning in a dense fog off Cape Roma
S. C. The Tallahassee and the otl
three submarines entered Charleston h;
bor yesterday and reported the K-5 h
become separated from them during t
fog and that efforts to locate her by wi:
less had failed. Several torpedo destrc
ers, two coast guard cutters, a Jighthoi
tender and a number of other vessels w?
sent in search of the K-5. She carries
crew of twenty-eight officers and m<
commanded by Lieut. Ft. C. Grady.
BY UNANIMOUS VOTE.
Senate Committee Approves Nomin
tions of Chance and Praeger.
The nomination of Merritt O. Chan
as postmaster for Washington, D. 1
was ordered favorably reported frc
the Senate committee on post offir
today. The action of the committ
was unanimous. It is regarded as cc
'tain that the nomination will be co
firmed.
llir ruiminurr moo uiiaiuinuu?i> tj
dered a favorable report on the not
tnatioti of Otto Praeger to l>e seco
assistant postmaster general.
Both of these nominations have be
pending before the Senate committ
almosti since the opening of the se
sion.
Attempts have been made to defe
the continuation of Mr. Chance on t
ground that he was not a democn
; This charge, however, was looked in
I carefully by the Postmaster Genei
j before Mr. Chance was appointed.
SLAIN BY MONTENEGRINS.
Rome Hears Generals Who Su
rendered Have Been Assassinated
PARIS, February 1.?The Rome co
respondent of the Journal reports th
Gen. Becir and another Montenegr
general have been assassinated by p.
triots In Montenegro who opposed tl
...nUitlatinn tn AllStl'ia Con Deal. u.
*;d|Miui?vi?/" "".II lie
been intrusted by a provisional gover:
ment tn Montenegro with negotiatioi
for capitulation.
According to a statement issued I
the Overseas News Agency of Berl
January 28, Gen. Becir and Maj. Lor
par, as delegates for the Montenegr
government, signed agreements at Ce
tinje January 25 with the Austro-Hu:
garian Lieut. Field Marshal von Hoef
and. Maj. Schuppich for the practlc
I surrender of the Montenegrin army*
4
5 REPORTS 80,000 TURKS
|| SHUT UP IN ERZERUM
Field Marshal Von Der Goltz Said
it! to Be in Command of
Garrison.
/
ROME, via Paris, February 1.?The
Giorrtale d'Italia learns from Petrograd
that Field Marshal von der Goltz
ey is now in command of the Turkish
lio forces at Erzerum and that there are
"t_ 80,000 men locked up in the city, with
on
provisions for only a fortnight.
The Black sea fleet is supporting the
operations of the Russian forces on
land. The Russian right wing is now
marching on - Trebizond, according to'
the same information.
no
Turkish Belief on Way.
>sed
LONDON. February 1.?The Athens
correspondent of the Daily Mail learns
ed that the Turkish 1st Army Corps has
k been sent to the relief of Erzerum. 1
It cannot reach that city, he says, in '
less than a fortnight. ' ,
,y
t? J
Buying Value
of a Cent
h
,he In December. 1910. the
daily average circulation of
ay The livening Star was 56,in.
207 and the rate under a 10,- ,
,er 000-line contract was about i
nd 9M vents per line, or
5,764 Copies for 1 Cent
In December. 1915, the
'B i daily average circulation of ,
The Evening Star was 74,t
400 and the rate under a 10,I
000-line contract on the new 1;
' scale is I0}i cents per line, M
- ?r i1
ce 6,921 Copies for 1 Cent
>ni In December, 1910, the '
es average circulation of The (
ee Sunday Star was 45,821 i
n~ copies and the rate under a
10,000-line contract was 8 :1
,p- cents per line, or !
n - 1
n fi
5,726 Copies for 1 Cent i [
en :,
,?e In December, 1915, the jt
average circulation of The j|
^ Sunday Star was 56,031 I
?t. copies and the rate under a ic
4" 10,-000-line contract on the J
new scale of rates is 8>/2
cents per line, or j i
6,592 Copies for 1 Cent
The Star daily and Sunday
4. not only gives a greater cirai
culation for each cent of
in cost than any other Washa"
ington newspaper, but is
constantly givingan increasing
circulation for each
ns cent. That the Washington
merchants appreciate
jy that The Star is the best buv r
?1 in Washington is proven by J
'n the fact that The Star frequently
carries more local
advertising than all the
a other papers combined.
54 KILLED IN AIR
RAID ON ENGLAND
/
More Than Sixty Persons Injured,
According to Report
From Capital.
BIG FLEET OF ZEPPELINS
DID NOT VISIT LONDON
Belief Expiessed That Attack Was
Aimed at Destroying Munitions
Plant.
LONDON, February i,
5 159 p.m.?Fifty-four persons
were killed and sixtyseven
injured in last night's
Zeppelin raid.
The figures in regard to
the /casualties were contained
in an official statement
issued here this afternoon.
The official statement says
bombs were dropped at several
towns, and in rural districts
of Derbyshire, Leicestershire,
Lincolnshire and
Staffordshire.
Some damage to property
was caused.
NEW YORK, February i.?
The following, dispatch from London
received by the Tribune this
morning is believed to" refer to
yesterday's Zeppelin raid, details
of which had been withheld by
the Britsh censor:
"Eleven deaths reported England
yesterday due lightning
(lighting?) restrictions. Five ot
tragedies occurred London streets,
three of victims soldiers.''
Details Are Withheld.
LONDON', February 1.?The press
comments at length upon the Zeppelin
raid of last night, but no official details
have been made public. In addition
to the war office statement to the
effect that six or seven airships passed
over the eastern, northeastern and
midland counties of England, dropping
a number of bombs. At the time the
announcement was made <1:45 o'clock
this morning) it was said no considerable
damage had been reported.
The Westminster Gazette says:
"The airships avoided London on this
occasion, and so did not test those defenses
about which there has been -so
much controversy. They passed over
a large area in"'the eastern and midland
counties, seemingly without doing a
great deal of damage.
Awaits German Excuse.
"We shall await the German excuse for
the raid with very considerable interest,
rhe comfortable German theory ife that
all frightfulness in the air is simply
punishment fdr wrong done to innocent
Lierman villages, and the pretense is
tept up with amazing solemnity long
after it becomes transparently ridicuous."
The Manchester Guardian says that
nty was a center of discussion of the
Zeppelins last night.
Aimed at Munitions Plants.
The London Globe says it would appear
that the ostensible object of last
light's raid was an attack upon certain
nunition factories, and adds :
"The moral of the raid seems to be
that unless Zeppelins make for some
quarter where special preparations
have been undertaken we have practically
no defense against them.*'
The Standard maintains that defenses
against aircraft have been improved
greatly, particularly around
London.
Most papers agree in urging reprisals,
but the Manchester Guardian
maintains that the responsibility rests
on the admiralty td devise means of
learning of the approach of aircraft before
they reach the coast.
London Theaters Suffered.
The Pall Mall Gazette says: 'Loiijoners
instinctively knew that a raid
was going on last night and the theaters
suffered by the return of a njimoer
of tickets, though no sounds came
within London's listening ears."
The Evening News points out that
last nighi s raid was the largest which
las yet occurred, so far as the number
Df Zeppelins is concerned.
The Now? and the Evening Standard
ontrast the meager official account of
he English raid, which failed to desigtate
the places affected, with the full deaiis
which were cabled from Paris folowing
the Zeppelin raids Saturday and
Sunday night.
By direction of the naval and military
lUthorities, tne police toda"> ordered dis:ontinuance
of chimes and the striking
f hours by public clocks between sunset
md sunrise, as a precautionary measure.
SAYS U. S. MUST FIGHT
A VICTORIOUS GERMANY
LONDON, February 1.?The Daily Ex>ress.
in an editorial today, after renarking
that the latest Zeppelin stacks
are certain to provoke great inlignation
in the United States, urges
>n that country the necessity of pre>aredncss.
"Former President Roosevelt is tryng
to push President Wilson into war."
iays the Daily Express, "but the Presilent
knows America is unprepared.
itherwise he might do something more
han write indignant notes Great BritLin
would have been in the same posiion
if the little navy' people had their
i-ay?we would still be writ!"- otes
ibout Belgium. The Un<* ?ies may
> sure of one thing?-'it the Germans
vin this war America will be their
text object of attack." . . ? |
I
NEW SOIL PUN
IS LAID ON TABLE
1
Proposal to Change Public Li*
brary Control Meets the
Same Fate.
nuust U. U. UUMMII Tht
HEEDS PEOPLE'S PLEAS
Today i Action Regarded at Practically
Killing Program of
Commisiioneri.
The District committee today
practically killed two of the most
important of the Commissioners'
bills?the bill to change the present
manner of appointing the
hoard of education and the similar
hill affecting the board of
trustees and employes and officials
of the Public Library.
At the same time the committee
reported favorably the Johnson
bill making important constructive
changes in the Juverile
Court.
The committee by a viva voce
vote laid on the table the two
Commissioners' bills affecting the
public schools and Public Library
This action is taken to show that
the agitation over the proposed
radical change by which the
Commissioners would centralize
' the control of the schools in their
own hands has shown the members
of the .District committee
that the people of the District
were practically solidly lined up
against such centralization. The
sentiment in regard to the schools
1 is reflected in the analogous situation
regarding the propo-al to
centralize further in the case of
1 j the library and put that in the
Commissioners" hands also.
Both Sides Are Heard.
i The District committee today heard
arguments on both sidss of t>e proposal V
to-include the Public IJbrary^h-the "centralization
of control under the Commissioners"
policy. Commissioner
Newman, appearing: for the three Commissioners,
told the committee that
inasmuch as the Commissioners have
the responsibility of the library they
should have the authority in matters
of appointment.
On the other hand. Theodore W.
Noyes, president of the board of trustees
of the library, told the committee
that the present system, whereby excutive
control is centered in the librarian,
who is responsible to the ooard of
trustees, whose members are appointed
by the Commissioners under existing
law, is the most effective library sys'
tern known.
For Better Juvenile Justice.
Prior to the arguments in the library i
matter Judge Latimer of the Juvenile
Court gave an interesting legal argument
in favor of the bill now befors
the committee making a radical change
in the powers and manner of adjudication
of that court.
He was accompanied by Mrs. Julia
Lath'rop. chief of the children's bureau,
who supported him absolutely, stating
that the bill embodies the best modern
thought in relation to the child and
the law.
Representative Page of North Carolina
appeared in argument for his bill,
which amends the present loan shark
law, and would allow a charge of 2
per cent a month to be made, for the
benefit of remedial loan companies
which have gone out of business since
the present "loan shark" law reduced
the legal Interest for those concerns
to 1 per cent. He also took occasion
to put in a good word Tor his bill to
change the existing automobile license
law. He would have annual licenses
on motor vehicles, such as are enforced
in other states.
Parallels School Issue. I
Commissioner Newman opened the de- j
j bate in relation to the Commissioners' \
i bill to place the appointing power of !
| library officers and employes in the
i hands of the Commissioners, and much
of the argument and questioning paralleled
the discussion-in the case of the
hearing on the bill to change the control
of the schools to the hands of the
Commissioners. Representative Wheeler
of Illinois asked the direct question:
"Why should there be a change in rej
spect to the library?"
"Where the Commissioners have the
responsibility they should have the
authority." replied Mr. Newman.
"What would be the practical effect?**
Representative Mapes asked.
"I presume the appointments in the
Library would be made by the Com?
missioners with the advice of .the
trustees of the Library."
Representative Mapes then brought out
tHe fact that the Commissioners j
are not familiar with the employes of j
me ijiorary.
"Why not let the President appoint
these officials and employes?" asked
Representative Lloyd.
"1 would doubt the advisability of
such a change," replied Mr. Newman.
"Exactly." continued Representative
Lloyd, "and 1 agree with you. and f
suggest that merely to point out the
fact that no one knows the library
situation like the library people." ;
The board would be a useless body
under this proposed change?" suggested
Representative Wheeler.
Board Service "Poor Sham/*
"Should not municipal activities be
encouraged," asked Representative
Tinkham of Massachusetts, "in special
view of the fact that there is little
participation by residents In their own
government here?"
"I should say," replied Mr. Newman.
"that 4t is a pretty poor sham to -sub'
J
