4
ZEPPELINS KILLED 54 IN NIGHT RAID ON ENGLAND
Weathtr Fair to-night and Wtdnssdayi much eoldef,
mi
MTOT70V
("Circaatfon Hooka Open to All."
I " Circulation Hooka Open to All."
PRICE OtfE CENT.
CopjrUht, miO, by The TrrM rubtlshlof
Co. (Th Nr York World),
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 191b.
16 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
OMAL
Jll COTOiV
BRITISH S.
GERMAN
V54 KILLED. 6?
IT
DISASTROUS
: BY ZEPPEUNS ON ENGLAND
Big Dirigibles Make Greatest Sweep
Over English Territory Squad
ron of 20 Zeppelins Reported
Ready for Another Invasion.
' LONDON, Fob. 1. Fifty-four persona wero killed and sixty-seven In
jured in last night's Zeppelin raid. Tho figures giving tho casualties wore
contained in an official statement Issued hero this afternoon.
The official statement says bombs wore dropped at several towns and
f! In rural districts In Derbyshire, Leicestershire, Lincolnshire and Stafford
1 phlre. Somo damago to property was
The number of dead and wounded"?
may be Increased by later reports, It
was indicated. The official statemont
aid that reports from 'iowns and
cities bombarded are still Incomplete.
The raiders wore hampered In their
operations by a mist, which made It
Impossible to hurl down bombs Ac
curately or to caugo their surround-1
lngs.
The four counties raided by the
Zeppelins Ho about one hundred
miles north and northeast of London
and contain ome of tho groatest
manufacturing cities of England.
Manchester and Sheffield No only a
few miles north of tho tier of coun
ties officially reported to have been
raided.
Total casualties, as officially report
ed, in eighteen Zeppelin and aero
plane raids on England since the be
ginning of the war, is: Killed, 214;
.wounded, 46:.
Excepting the raid on London on
Oct. 13, 1915, when 65 persons wero
killed and 115 injured, the Monday
night invasion by Zeppelins was the
most disastrous air attack In his
tory. At least six or seven Zeppelins, the
War Office says, took part in tho raid.
No more than three Zeppelins at any
eno tlmo havo ovor before been re
ported In a raiding squadron.
The fact that tho airships raided
the lntoiior countlos also indicates
ghat they penotratod many miles
further than over before into the
country. Previous raids have beon
the coast counties, except tor those
London.
X squadron of twenty zeppeuns,
me of thorn equipped with the new
lent motors, has been manoeuvring
over Belgium for several days, pre
paring for a great "air drive" on Lon
don, according to Amsterdam de
ppatches to-day. The raid last night
was only preliminary to a great at
tack from tho sky, it Is believed here.
A dozen Oorman avla'.ors havo been
observed in tho manoeuvres with the
Zeppelin squadron over Belgium, Am-
i i ... M(xni.n.l TTin tvnn rtf norn.
I - ... n i nn, til n ,ln nut liv travellers
(arriving In Holland. They reported
that all Belgian civilians wero being
excluded from tho country near whero
the manoeuvres aro going on. Loudon
experts believe tho aeroplanes wero
Fokkors, assigned to accompany tho
Zeppelin raldors and give battlo to
.English aoroplancs which may climb
Into the heavens to attack tho dlrlgl
1 bles.
Lust nlghfs raid was not entirely
" unexpected. All the nowsjmpers pre.
dieted another air Invasion following
the visits to English oast coast towns
by acrmnn aoroplancs last week. It
Iwna reatlrcd that those nights we're
for tho purposo of "feeling out" Eng
1 land'iLtiow air dofoiiBca,
( By direction of the naval and mill-
Wv authorities, tho pollco to-uay or-
V. Tlcrod discontinuance of chimes nnd
ho striking of hours by publlo clocks
M .hvo.mi Huntct and sunrlEO. as a pre.
ntlonary measure.
ho Times to-day, co.nmontlng on
phase of the recent developments,
Continued on Fourth Peg,) .
N I
RAID
caused.
BIG AIRSHIP ATTACKS
ALLIES AT SALOWCA
Bombards Ships ancf Supply Depots
With Great Success, Ber
lin Reports.
BERLIN (via wireless to Bayville,
L. I.), Fcb 1, A German airship at
tacked ships nnd supply depots of tho
Allies In Halonlca harbor with excel
lent success, It was officially an
nounced to-day.
The fact that tho torra "airship"
wan used in .the German official
statement makes It appear posslblo
that a iicppelln Jiaa been engaged for
tho first tlmo ngalnst tho allies In
tho nolkans. The arrival of a Zep.
polln at Sofia was recently reported
DU PONT POWDER CRASH
SHATTERS BUILDINGS
Heavy Damage Done at Plant
Near Fcrndale, Pa. Not Known
Wether Any Lives Were Lost.
I'uriwvil.l;, Pa., Feb. 1- An ex
plosion in the mixer building of the
Dupont Powder Company mills near
Ferndale, was reported late this after
noon.
Several buildings wore demolished.
Whether any lives were lost la not yet
WHITMAN'S EXPENSE BILL
ACCEPTED BY TRAVIS
Itemfeed Voucher Called For by
1 I n . .
t-ompironer snows How $20,760
Was Spent on Panama Fair Trip.
ai.ia., i- en, 1. The Itemize,!
voucher of J20.7CO.l4, the expenses of
Gov. Whitman's party to the Panama
racinc exposition, was received and
accepted by Comntorller tv..,.i.. .
day.
cent
UtYjiun originally presented re
ly It was sent back for itomlza-
tlon.
The Itomizod bill shows the follow
ing payments: lUllrood fare. 111..
027.50: Pullman hire. SB.213.R7-nn.-v-
Ing oar at Salt Lako City, 130; dining
cur nurviuu, o,oiu..u; newspapers and
magazines, 19,77,
llrlllili nml 1'if iicli Troop llnlillnc
"r"i iiriiMI.
LONDON'. Feb, I IlrllUh tronn.i on
eratlng In Went Afrieil have raptiiP'd
Mufuli and are advancing on N'kan. it
was orncimiy announced to-ilny. Krencl:
troop Imvo captured Ijholown. The
tirltlih havo loM twenty-two and tho
rmiun imirmmi niriii-i-ni liKliung.
Amliniftiiilur Moruriitliliu May Conic
lliuiir mi Mult.
UIIHI.IN. Feb, 1 Henry Morgonthau
American Ambassador to Turkey, left
Constantinople on a vacation to. day, ac
cording to ricsputrlies received here
and probably will visit the United States
DCIore ni n-iurn. .iioreniiiau Is ox-
pecica iu rv.,un uuriiu ima wus wceK,
BjoorliMni Mt In aim or tor threit m
OotUtVi uuitd mix. tietfl lubsuwtsi. Aiit.
S. APP AM
CREW RRINGS IT
WILSON
AWAKENS
PATRIOTIC WAVE
ALL AIM ROUTE
Men, Women and Children
Cheer and rfold Flags at
Every Station.
ON' WAY TO DES MOINES.
President Saves Voice While
Travelling Through Strong
hold of Progressives.
By Samuel M. Williams.
(8pecll Staff Correspondent of The
livening World.)
OTTAWA. 111., Kcb. 1. President W1I
son's trip to-day from Chicago to Des
Moines was one continuous ovation
of cheering and flag waving through
two States, Illinois and Iowa. He has
suaaeniy Dcen transformed into a
popular hero and there Is being
poureq out on him '.ho enthusiastic
adulation of uncounted throngs of
plain people In the small cities, the
towns, tho villages and the farms. At
every station, oven though the train
did not stop, there wero crowds as-
sembled in zero weather to give him
a cheer. In many places tho schools
wero dismissed and tho children, un
der leadership of their teachers, were
massed at the station to get their first
object lesson In patriotism and to
cheer for the man who Is now win
ning tho Middle West In a most
amazing manner.
President Wilson seems to have
touched a responsive chord in the
heart of the mass which knows little
about politics. It is as though ho
typifies to them true Americanism
nnd that they must ealute him with
tho stars and stripes. A tidal wave
of nmotlonal lovo of country hns been
lot loose on three Western prairies,
The women and children have sud
denly become demonstrative with It
even more so than tho men. They
form a largo part of ex-cry assem
binge, doubly inspired by the newly
acquired fervor for patriotism and
thu truly feminine curiosity to see
Mrs. Wilson.
In return Presldont Wilson Is get
ting Into closer toudh with the people.
Ho has 'begun to make his appeal dl
reot to them, telling his audiences
that he has come out to report to
them the facts of what is going on in
tho Government and to take counsel
with them. It Is the policy adopted
by Charles E. Hughes when Governor
of Now York, and the political effect
of such a course Is alarming to par
tisan bosses.
TRAVELS TO-DAY THROUGH
PROGRESSIVE TERRITORY.
The President had sounded tho
note of non-partisanship In both pre
paredness nnd tariff. Ho travelled to.
day through tho heart of Progressive
territory, nnd the thousands that
wero once enrolled members of the
Hull Moose herd gave attentive ear to
tho President. Particularly did they
llko bis assertion that the Govern
ment would establish It's own muni
tion and armor plants to make ready
for national defense.
Tho tlrst large town out of Chicago
through which the Presidential spe-i-lal
ran was .lollet. I-'lvo thousand
pooplo were packed mound the sta
tion, most of thum waving flags and
cheering. Tlio train crawled slowly
throuph-the town. Tho President and
Mrs. Wilson stood on tho roar plat
form answering the salutations. Tho
crowds run down tho track In pur
sun, crying for the train to stop and
begging for him to speak to them.
At Ottawa, where this despatch Is
drtfppcd off, tho same scones were re
peated, There are few Democrats In
this section of tho country, but the
masses apparently havo forgotten
(Continued on Second Para)
HEARD HEALIS SAY
HE KILLED
Fellow Prisoner of Chauffeur
Brings in Another "Con
fession" at Trial.
WIDOW RESTS HER CASE.
In
Tears Again as Witnesses
Tell of Husband's Death
in Hospital.
Special from a Staff Correspondent of
Tho Evening World.
PIIOV1DKNCE, R. I., Feb. 1.
George Ilcalls, the negro who was
chauffeur for Dr. C. Franklin Mohr,
was directly charged this afternoon
at the trial of Mrs. Elizabeth Tiffany
Mohr and tho two negroes with bolng
the sole and unaided murderer of1 the
physician. The charge cr? in the
testimony of David Plr.e, who was
called in the defense of the negro
Victor Drown, after Mrs. Mohr's at
torneys had rested their case.
Pine testified that when he was a
convict In the Provldenco County
Jail, last September, HeallH made
practically complete confession to
him.
Attorney-General Rico made every
effort to havo the testimony of Pine
excluded, nnd did succeed In having
some of the questions and answers
stricken from the record, but all that
Pino had to tell reached tho Jurymen
Pino was called by William II
Lewis, counsel for nrown.
Q. Did you see HeallB with a paper
In his hand while you and ho wero
In the. Jail and hear him say that the
Attorney-Genoral would give him 150
If ho'd answer "yes" to tho questions
written on It, and also that he'd servo
two years while I3rown and Spcllman
would got life?
Pino answered "Yes, I did," hofore
Mr. Itlco could Jump up with his ob
jection. Then Justice Stearns sus
tained him and ordered the question
struck from the record.
Q. Did not llealls say to you Unit
day, "Well. Pine. I done this. They
questioned me so closo that I had to
bring others Into it to save hyself.
I was going to run to tho nearest
house and say that there had been a
holdup, but after I dragged Miss Bur-
ger to tho side of the road I didn't
have time? A. Yes, lie said that.
Miss Amy N. Nye. the trained
nurse who accompanied Mrs. Mohr to
the Rhode Island Hospital the night
Dr, Mohr was shot, was tho first wit
ness called to-day. Sho lived on the
second floor of the house In which
Mrs. Mohr lived, No. 1 Ilescrvolr
Avenue,
"I came dtfwnstalrn when tho house
was aroused that night," Miss Nye
testified, "and after learning what hud
happened I went In to quiet the Mohr
children. Mrs. Mohr was crying."
On the way to the hospital Mrs.
Mohr continued to cry, according to
tho witness.
nev, William McNamara of tho
Bothtehem Home, Providence, who
has had pastorates at Full River,
Providence nnd Oak Bluffs, Martha's
Vineyard, and said ho took great in
terest In Healls nr. one of his parish
ioners, testified that ho had visited
the chauffeur In Cranston jail nftur
his arrest.
Mr. Fitzgerald asked Father Mc
Namara what Healls had said to him.
"I asked him, 'Did Mrs. Mohr have
anything to do with bringing about
tho murdor of her husband?'" said
the priest, "Ho replied, 'I don't
know; sho novcr said anything to me
about It.' "
Cross - examination by Attorney
General Rice:
Q, You went to seo Healls to ret a
confession, didn't you? A. No, the
wholo State of Rhode Island couldn't
(Continued on Second Pact.)
MOHR
WTNESS
SWEARS
SEIZED BY
RAIDING SHIP THE MOEWE;
BEGAN
m smm WP ms w yt,pAijMMflMHM
1 m . - . sm fc ' -- --'1S'1
BRITISH SS. APPAM SEIZED BY GERMAN
British Liner Which Had Been Given
Up as Lost Overhauled Off the
Canary Islands and Captain Sur
rendered to Preserve Safety of the
166 Passengers on Board.
NORFOLK, Va., Feb. 1. Bringing with her one
of the most remarkable st jries in naval history, the
British stcunier Appam, supposed to have been sunk off
the African coast, arrived here to-day flying the German
German Commander's Story
Of How the Appam Was Taken
Says They Lay in Wait for
Days, but Refuses to
the Raider.
NOItFOLK, Va., Feb. 1. Ueut
of tho Appam and his voyage in command of her from the Canary Islands
to this port, was told while he smiled
"We knew we aocormpllohcd a great
through the lines of tie cnomy," ho
a good prise, we waited for Her several dayu, and had given up hope of
getting her. We thought eho had heard of us and gone to another port.
"We treated the passengers as
comfort and bad the doctors care for
ship.
"Wo had intended going to Now
cnomy's ships were cruising near that
to Norfolk. Wo expected to arrive here Sunday, but we had to bo cautious,
and went In a roundabout way to reach the Virginia Capos. We sighted
no British cruisers but met sovoral merchant ships. Wo might havo taken
thorn, but that would havo endangered our arrival here, so we let them
pass."
"Did a BUbmarlne accompany the ship that captured the Appam?" he
was asked.
"Thit is war business," foe rejlled. "We don't tell how we do things."
"How many men wore thoro on the ship that captured the Appam?"
That alno Is a secret that we don't care to dlscum."
"Wo had expected tho Appam and we were waiting for her. When wo
hear from our Ambassador perhaps then I will tell you more.
"Wa expect to take this steamer to Norfolk until such tlmo as wo can
get rcudy to return to sea. The passengers havo begged to go alioro and
tho llttlo children aro so tired of the water."
Thoro are five children and twenty women among the Appam's original
passengers.
"Kvorybody is well, and we bad a good time," continuod the captain.
"Tho poor men, they will get better in a hospital. We aro tired ourselves
and want to rest a while. When we captured tho Appam, wo had seen
five months of hard work. We slept little and our nerves wero tlnxl. We
were only a few miles from a port, but we dared not go In. We stood off
and waited and when tho Appam came we took her.
"We took another after that, hut she was not good enough to tako
with us, so we sank her end took off her cargo. Only four of our mon
were hurt and none seriously. I had a wound In my arm, hut It healed.
Nona of our men on the oflhtr ship was killed."
ACROSS OCEAN
WORK A T KIEL
Her for Several
Describe
Oscar Barge's account of the capture
and smoked a cigarette.
feat In bringing this veesel safely
said, "The ship 1b not hurt and sho is
beet we could. Wo gave them every
tho Injured men taken from another
York, but were advised that the
(point, and we changed our course
RAIDER ;
RAIDER AND BROUGHT
i
German Vessel Sunk Seven Ships Be
fore She Overtook the Appam
British Governor of Sierra Leone
and Wife Among the Passengers
Captured by Raider.
flag, a Teutonic war prize, and with her passengers and
crew as prisoners. She was in charge of a German prize,
crew of twenty-two, commanded by Lieut. Oscar Berge.
The Appam was captured by a German commerce
raider somewhere off the Canary Islands on Jan. 15, ac
cording to the best information from passengers. There
was it fight on her decks, during which two men were
killed and several injured.
Tho most thrilling fiction slo-y of the days of pirates
has never equalled that told by men and women on the
Appam, of how the liner was overhauled, how stout Ger
man sailors came clambering upon her decks and clushed
with the Britons.
A message thrown from a port hole of the British steamer Appatn -fvU
in n 1 InitH Prs rennrter thK afternoon revealfd the name of the' Gfir- ' .i'jmpj
man raider whose prize crew had brought the liner into port as the
Moewe, gave the names of seven British steamers sunk by the Moeive4and
told that she had started the remarkable career of raiding frorrt thefKIer.
Canal, passing entirely through the British naval lines. ' ,
She captured the Appam sixty miles north of the Madeira Islands.
She is described as a tramp steamer. She approached the Appam..
Hying a Britih flag. As she halted the Appam she ran down the dritish ' ,
flag and pulled up the tiennan color. .
The following seven British steamers were sunk by the German
raider that captured the liner Appam, according to passengers.
Corbridge, with 6,000 tons of coal, Jan. It.
Farringford, with 4,000 tons. of copper ore, Jan. 11.
Drummondy, 5,000 tons of coal, Jan. 13.
Authur, 8,000 tons of general cargo, Jan. 13. 1
Traitor, cargo of sugar, Jan. 13.
Ariadne, with 5,000 tons of wheat, Jan. 13.
Clan McTavish, with 10,000 tons of general cargo, including a large
quantity of beet, Jan. 15.
With the Britui flajj lowered and the double eagle at henmast-
in history, which ended here when she put into port. ' "' a
The entire Atlantic is hostile waters to the Germans. But the Appanf.JW
eluded British naval vessels, avoided the regular passenger , lands 'on
which she would have encountered British merchant ships. without num
ber, and slipped into this neutral port safe and sound.
It was first believed the Appam had been captured by a submarine,
but passengers and members of the crew declared the Appam had been
taken by a raider. It was not even known that a German ship was at
Urge on the seas. Once in the hands of the Teutons, the Appini wa
CANAL
HERE A PRIZE
f
ttffi
4
