H J
FINANCIAL EDITION
feitnr
NIGHT
EXTRA
4
jttmtmg
NIGHT
EXTRA
ft vol. 1I.-NO. 120
PIIILADELPIIIA, TUESDAY, tfJ311JLlUARY 1, 1010.
COftKlOllT, 1010, BI T11R rCBLlO LtCOM COJiTANI.
PRICE ONE GENT
-,'
Nm Se5 rfB'
r.
WILSON TALKS
IN IOWA TODAY
FORDEFENSE
m Speeches From End of
Tonight
i? SAYS THE NAVY IS READY
"Other Nations May Touch Us
at Quick Any Moment,"
He Tells Throng
CIHCAOO, Tel). 1. Feeling nt, TTc-d-ient
Wilson lose early today ready to
resume 1.19 tour of the central West or
nrtpnrcdiicsi. He li.id breakfast with
Mrs Wllon about S o'clock. After seeing
.evc'ral vlsltois at the hotel ho left shoitly
beforo in for the railroad station.
Today will he nnnthci busy one for the
Fxccutlvo. Kn routo to Des Moines, In.,
vthcic he will speak In the Coliseum to
nlcht. the 1'iesldent will make speeches
from the n-ar of his car at nnvcnpoit.
lonn City, tJrlnnclI and Newton. He will
arrive In lies .Moines about 7 o'clock to
night. SPUAKS TO THOPSANDS.
President Wilson, hefoio thousands of
men, women and chlldtcn In Wisconsin
and Illinois, jcstciday piesented his pica
for prcpitedncss foi tbo nations defense.
In Milwaukee 'jnon ersonH, many
foreign born, heaid him declare the dan
coi of domestic disunion was passed, that
there Is no sudden crisis, but that oilier
(Internments may "touch us at the quick
any moment" and force tho nation into
If war must ome. he said. It must be
the people's war if the lias shall bo col
ored again (with blood). "In being col-
ored It will be Rloilllecl and puiillcd "
Not 11 large standing at my must be
asked of Congress, the President urged,
but a momentous body of olunteor citi
zen soldiers ti ained nnd ready nt the
Instant to defend themselves and their
.country.
DHFHNDS Till', NAVY.
Reiterating his clefcn.se of the navv, he
Insisted It must bo Increased nt a faster
pace. Coast defenses are modern nnd of
' flclent, but not sufficient
At liaclno, tlie Piesldcnt declared the
Govcrnnicnt should bo prepared to tnanti
factuie arms and munitions, so that ir
wnr comes It can ill least control the
jirice of what it bii)s. "Let no one sup
po.se tint this Is a money-making nslta
tlon," he .said.
In Chicago at night to n huge ciowd
In the Auditorium the President appealed
to forelgn-boin citizens to prove them
selves loyal Americans
At this time, ho said, when nil the
world Is at war, too many persons are
seeing ltd.
"So fnr ns tho navy Is concerned the
i niteii stales is reauy now 10 Kive n noun
nicoiiut of ltelf," he declined.
.Mindful of the attack on Hooscvelt In
Milwaukee, President Wilson was escort
ed thinugh police-lined stieets by Hoops
of cnvnlr) under (leneral King.
ASSAILS PODS IN CONGKHSS
ComiiiK t Chicago over a loute tlint
sent tliousands to the waysldo stations
to cheer and wale Huks ut him, tlie Pres.
Ideut found nioio than lOO.ftOO people lin
ing tho stieets between the rillway Mn
tlon and Ihe Illneksloiie lintel, ttheio be
nnd Mis. Wilson Indued over night prc
llininaii to hii Invislon of lown today.
At his night mcctiiiR, tthkh InoiiRlit
tin! most Inlluentinl business men and
their woman folks li evening clothes to
hear him, tho President stiuck a new note
b) IniiiRliiR his riiiis to bear upon tlie
hostile clement' of Congress whiih is op
posing him.
"If I were ,1 membei of Coiiricss," ho
Bald, "which 1 don' hippen to be, I'd be
willinR to ro bofoie anj iini.tltiicucy 1011
fldcnt tint t It would bo willing o p.i) the
pi ice of national defense Tlie Ameiicau
people aie neither uiggnidly nor parsi
monious when It conies to buying piu
Icctlou of their homos atid ideals."
There are at pitiicnt, he told his
audience, not men enough in tho tegular
aimy to perforin loutiue duties in times
of peace. Tho Rreat need, he said, was
not for a huge standing at my. but trained
volunteers, "because tho .strength of the,
nation Is In Its loluiitecrs I belieie that
If there should bo need theio would he
men enough In any oieut, because our
people are much moro icndy to lay down
their Hies for n thought than for a
dollar."
For two minutes the audience cheered
Continued nn l'nire M, Column ln
UridesburK Fire a Mystery
Yixe was dlbcotered in an unoccupied
house earl today at -1,117 Belgrade street,
Iliideshuig. It Is thought by the police
that it was the woik of a firebug, or else
n tiamp may have slept theie und stinted
the tlie. It was n two-story frame build
Ins. The damage amounted to J50O.
THE WEATHER
Here begins tho shortest chapter in the
year, t'ebiuaiy When one talks about
Ihe bievlty of February theie is notice
able a wute of optimism among one's
beams Why Is this.' Surely tho little
month can be mean enuush us to weather
conditions Just look ut Its stmt today.
It Is suggestlte of mean sleets and un
expected Incomplete snows und slushes
and mists, If memory tricks us not. And
et, everybody loves t'ebruarj. Now It
may be this, uothlps more reasonable
thuii u vugue feeling that because It's a
short month there'll be less work to do
in It thun In other months How unworthy
of jou! Unless you are paid by the
talendai month. In that cube ou do, in
deed steal one oi two das' -paj, Hut
moat of us are paid by the week, and so
hum iiumiiiK. men wuy want the jear.
to huny ulong, unless, perhaps to hastei
mo t-wuuua ut inv Biu-iug, g-ruuuuiy tnat B
It We loya Febfuaiy becuuse we think
of it as the last gasp of old winter.
And that's a pretty goud rubon.
, FORECAST
For Philadelphia and viaiuity
Partly cloudy and much colder to
night; Wednesday fair atid- colder;
fresh west tuinda.
For details see paye 17,
. . LOST AND FOUND
L'liovv ik (I Lol ouui- blick clww ioit. try
atucKy kuUi nUiula dUmt 13 huh Wlc
"i licatv bUk iu,t Ut itui Btb anj Jtr
tL-i.nn I tberil reiU lllliyji LJi . i u
intrfcltNlTY PIN Iwl Wlllta ciusa laltr
illy j ir, Mit uith li UUjuoAdii reward M
J(l I ISfr l lllial
li -m m tomw ui IMUU tufc in l .
iKaiu i.nt',1- likh uuti Uarut, ,uaA e.e
i uud UarltjK,
iv lie I iuj
' --" Si, (
STOKM ON WAY HERE
Warning Sent Out Along Atlantic
Coast of Coming Disturbance
After tho calm the storm.
Storm warnings lire being sent out to
day nlong tho Atlantic Coast from the
fielnwmo Tlrenkwnlcr to Uastport, Me, as
a Ilnale to the mild, wnrm weather which
ushered out Jnminr) A storm area Is
approaching from tho West and colder
weather by tonight Is predicted The day.
which begnn with n temperature of r4
degrees, will see the clouds partly cleared,
tho weather forecast sas, nnd tomorrow
will bo fnlr nnd colder
PENROSE WILL
DECLARE WAR ON
VARE FACTION
Accepts Challenge in Fight
Over Brumbaugh for
the Presidency
BATTLE FOR DELEGATES
Senator Says He Can Capture
Majority of State Ballots.
Independents Urge Peace
Senator Penioe within a week will de
clare war against the Vnrc-Hrumbaugli-Mngee
conlltlou, according to Pentose
lieutenants with whom the senior Senator
has been conferring about his war plans
In tha last few dns.
The Senatoi has accepted tlie challenge
Issued by Congtessmaii Vnie .lesterdny,
when the South Philadelphia lender dc
claicd foi Governor Brumbaugh for
President, nnd lias told his fi lends in
tho last 21 bouts that "his coat Is oIT."
War councils of tlie Pentose foues
bale been held In Senator Penrose's nf
llce in the Coinmeicl.il Tiust Building for
tho last month After tile Vine Indoise
nienl of (Jovetnor Brumbaugh Senatoi
Pentose exptcssed conlidcnce of his abil
ity to captuie a innjnril) of the Penn
sylinnla delegation to the Itcpubllcnn
National Contention and to elect his own
slate to the Stale otllces.
The light for delegates will be carried
on in most of the districts throughout the
State, according to Penrose follow cis.
Before the Pentose declaration of war
Is made tlie Independents, under tlie
leadeishlp of George I). Portei, John ('.
Winston and the other men who recentl)
allied themselves with Penrose, will be
orsnnbed
The Hxccutitc Committee of the "rc
foini within the patt)" movement,
chosen at u meeting of 19 Independent
leadeis held last night, rtlll meet tomot
low and complete the plnns for the oi
gimUntlon of a permanent committee to
lontlniiril on I'nitc .Srirn, Column Three
MINISTER'S DAUGHTER
SOLD AS WHITE SLAVE
AT AUCTION FOR $55
Detectives Rescue Pretty
Church Organist After
Fierce Fight With Her
Kidnapper
LURED AWAY BY 'FRIEND'
NIJW YnrtK. Feb 1 Hon she was
kidnapped, stijpped of her clothes and
auctioned on tho block iu a New York
white slave inaiket for .": wns told l
pietty IS-j rut -old Marie Klein, daughter
of tho Ftct. Chillies Klein, of Heth.uiy
Itefonned Chinch, hole today, following
hei icscuo and the capture of "Jimmy
Naples." her allotted kidnapper.
.She bad been niissiiiR sinie Decem
ber 16.
Naples once befriended Miss Klein when
KiuiKSlcrs attacked her on her way home
fiom organ pi active at the church, ac
coiillng to the Itev. Mi Klein, was Intro
duced to the Klein homo and visited thero
often, fieciticntl) sa!ng lie would "al
ways defend Miss Klelp "
Tho gill's stor Is that Naples dragged
her into a dooiwn) the afternoon of De
cember 16, showed her a icvolter In his
coat pocket and tluentened to kill her if
sne tried to get away, ttfen forced her to
take $100 la Jowels and fcii In cash from
hei patents and. drltlng her to nn Italian
colon) house in Williamsburg, locked her
In a loom nnd took her clothes.
"It was at a Chilstinns ball of tho
colonists In Wllll.imshuig that I was
sold," said Miss Klein "Naples had been
the dooi keeper of my prison loom und
had admitted many men The dance was
breaking up and dawn was appioachlng.
1 was ter ill. M) captor called the men
back and said 1 was to bo auctioned offK
Without clothes, but too III to know
iniiih, I was placed upon the stage and
held theio while tho biutes made their
bids.
"Iu mv deliiium I could faintl) hear
them saving ?J5. ?!. 3- -l3 and then
by dollar and fifty-cent Inci eases until I
was sold to Willie one for $35. I don't
know who bought me 1 became uncon
scious and woke up in the cottage whero
the detectives found me."
After their daughter disappeared, the
Kleins fe,). Naples terrorized them with
threats to "cut their hearts out" If they
connected him with her disappearance.
Tha'detectltes had to beat Naples a I most"
Into uncoiifcclousness with clubs before he
was captured
YOUNG MAN SHOOTS HIMSELF
Police Say Suicidal Act Was prompted
by Disappointment in Love
ndiew MoilUon. 31 )ears old, of 2053
Dickinson street, threaten to kill him
Milt because he had been disappointed
In love, accotding to the police of "hea
ter MoiiUon had been working In Carne)'s
Point, and wOiniiu to Chester Ian night
tvnt to the home of Robeit Hunu, of
6 Hi Bttut 4th atieot He hol hlnualf ut
Hums' nam, the bullet sti Iking between
the ees and fruetuiins the frontul bone.
Iullce eut him to ' henter Hoaplul. and
while hw -oudltlon U critical he ma) ic
coter SUO HlLTIllOKt. IMI liUM KN
Sir. '. iki I il f''" "" ' Ctt.iimt
",, iV tfymsi tfw . u - at- -AJy
t
GERMAN SEA RAIDER SEIZES
'LOST' BRITISH LINER APPAM;
GORY BATTLE RAGES ON DECK
Flying Banner of Fatherland, Crew of
22 Teutons Brings Rich Prize Into
Hampton RoadsMysterious
Merchantman Captor
5?"
JwOVTDA'
"'t-l-S
J SOUTH
S AMERICA v
The British liner waa captured off the Canary Islands, according to
tcport, while on her way from Dakar, on tho west coast of Africa,
4 to Plymouth, England. The German prize crew then brought her
4U00 miles across the Atlantic, over a sea supposed to be well
patrolled by Allied cruisers, to Norfolk.
THRILLS IN THE HIGH SEAS
ROMANCE OF THE APPAM
Sailed from Dakar, West Africa, January 11 with 100 passengers
and a crow of 151, bound for Plymouth, England.
Boarded by German sailors from armed merchantman ofT Canary
Islands January 15 nnd captured after ti bloody fight.
Forced to take aboard passengets of other vessels captured by the
Germans and to head across the Atlantic.
Meanwhile, reported in London to have foundered in gale, or to hac
been torpedoed, lifeboat having been picked up.'-- -- - ,--
After 4200-mile dash past British patrols in the Atlantic reached
Norfolk, Va., today flying the German ling.
NORFOLK, Va., Feb. 1.
The British liner Appnm, centie of tho maritime mystery of the "lost
ship," was captured by a German sea raider off the Canary Islands.
The Appam came into Norfolk todny, flyinp; the German flap;, currying
about H00 prisoners, in charge of a German prize crew of 22 men, and
bringing a remarkable tale of tho sea. Out of a mass of conflicting stories
by passengers and officers of the Appam and the few admissions of Lieutenant
Oscar Berg, commanding the pri.e ctcw, this much of the sensational high
scas romance seems clear:
That the Appam was overwhelmed by a tinmp raider off the Cannry
Islands January 15; thut there was a fight beforo she surrendered, and that
the raider resumed her business of nttneking British merchant vessels again,
sinking at least one in view of the Appam.
The vessel sunk, by agreement of all accounts, wns an Australian
freighter, laden with meat. The freighter showed fightt and several of her
crew were injured. The German tramp put the injured aboard the Appam,
took over the cargo of meat antl steamed away, leaving the Appam to proceed
to Norfolk in charge of the prize crew.
Just how much of a fight the Appam put up before surrendering is dis
puted. Captain Hurrison says surrender was immediate, since he had only
one throe-inch gun with which to resist the raider's attack, and that it was
unmounted. Some members of the German prize crew say the British liner
opened fire in answer to the first shot across her bows. The United States
Government will have the point to settle.
The Appam passengers relate that tho raider placed 1.18 prisoners from
olhcr ships on board, and that theso prisoners' stories indicate the raider
had sunk at least seven other vessels.
The Appam is expected to go into Newport News tonight, in which case,
sinco sho seems little damaged, save for a bent plate or two, s,he must leave
soon or be interned permanently. Only 24 hours can be nllowed her in port,
unless her condition calls for repairs that will require longer. It is believed
she will intern.
There is tho widest speculation ns to the identity of the mysterious raider.
Jluny hero think it is the will-o'-the-wisp boat reported several times in tho
Gulf- of Mexico, just after the escape of the officers from the Prin Eitel
Friedrich, aboard the yacht Eclipse. It is suggested she may have picked
them up off the capes. A remark by Lieutenant Berg, prize crew commander,
ihat he had come into this port because he knew he would get decent treat'
ment strengthens this theory.
The British liner Appam, brought into this port by a German prize crew
W. T. READ ELECTED
JERSEY TREASURER
Camden Senator Named
Legislature to Succeed
Grosscup, Democrat
by
TltLNTON, N. J . Feb. l.-ln joint ses
slon today tlie legislature elected Senate
I'lesklent William T. Read, of Camden'
County, as State Treasurer, la succeed
Kdward K. Uiosseup, Democrat.! Al
though the utter's term explies March 1,
Senator Read la not expected to (luallfy
until neaier final adjournment of the
Legislature.
Newspaper Man Dies of Pneumonia
Aithur F. WllliuniH, liens editor of tho
Philadelphia Iteoord, is dead after a brier
Illness that begun with grip and turned
into pneumonia. Ha had bicn here three
)eurs, having come from Bridgeport,
(.onn. With hU wife and three children,
he lived at 148 Sh'aipiwik stieet Fu
ueiul kervlve will U held tonionow In
the Holy I'ros CttholU Church Alt
Airy The Rev II 4 Duval a biotber-In-UW
nd the Het J Deters of Ihe
church will conduct the aeivucs Inter
nvent will be In llcil) Sepulcbre Cemetery.
SU
PLYMOUTH
I
CANARY 3rV
I
Continued oil rune Kight, Column One
L'INTERVENTO DELLA
RUMANIA E' VICIN0
A Berlino Credono Che il Gov-
erno di Bucarest E'
per gli Alleati
La Rumania sla per entiare nella
guerra europea a flaneo delle Tntenze
dell'lntesa. Questa e' Iu noiizja piu' Im
portante che si ha oggl circa la guerra.
e lene da Herlino. dote sembra che 1
tedeschl abblano perdutn ognl speranza
noil soltauto dl attrarro la Ilumanlu nella
liroprla orblta. ma anohe di riuscire a
farU rlmanere ueutrul Inslenie con
questa uotizla vlene I'altr.i dl success!
russl nella Ilucovlna, cio' che deve avero
non poco Inllueiuala 11 goveruo rumeno
Nulla dl nuoto vi e' sulla fionte
itallana, ad eccezione dl piccoli combat-
tlmentl nalU zona dl Mori, In Val d
e di .loliiitl duelll dl urtlgiierlH su ituaA
luuu iu (route dl battdglla. ma piu' spe
clulmente u ((uella diUl'Iaonso. Dalla
I'enUwIa Ualcanlca non vl e' nulla dl,
nuovo SI so. soltuntu che i seibl e mon
tenegrinl che ilunclrouo n kfugglre alia
, itretni delle fori uutrUche a Scutari
I marcfuno verso Duaaxzo e truttengono (ill
aujlrUicl che avanino pure verso quel
1 porta albaneie
I-eggere in a pa'in le ultime e piu'
I dcttaglutte noitzio Jul.it guerra, iu
I IMihjuo.)
I
r
.
54 KILLED, 67
INJURED IN BIG
ZEPPELIN RAID
British Admit Zeppelins
Took Huge Toll in
Latest Attack
OCCURRED LAST NIGHT
Inland Counties Bombarded by
Fleet of Airships Seven
Seen
LONDON, Fob. 1.
Fifty-four persons were killed nnd 6J
Injured In last nlfjht's raid by Zeppelins
over Derbyshire, Htnffordihiro, Lincoln
shlro and Leicestershire. It was officially
announced this afternoon.
Tho number of dcail and wounded may
bo Increased, In later reports, It was in
dicated. The official statement said that
reports from cities bombarded are still
Incomplete.
The Zeppelin fleet was the hlRKet that
has yet attacked UnBland The raiders
wcro hampered In their opeiatlons by a
mist which made It Impossible to hurl
don u bombs accurately or to Rnuse their
BUrroundlnRS
Tho four counties raided by tlie Zep
pelins lie about 100 miles noith and north
east of London and contain some of the
Kre.itcst manufacturing cities of IhiRlnnd.
Manchester and Shellleld lie only a few
miles north of tier of ountles olllci.illy
rcportcd to have been rallied
It Is probable that tlie Zeppelins first
appeared off Lincolnshire and then mined
In a snuthttestly direction oter Leicester
shire. Derbyshire and Staffordshire.
The Zeppelins wete ditldeil Into thiec
Kroups,, one attaiKlnc; the east coast
another the northeastern co.ist and the
third dropping bombs upon the Midland
counties.
It waa reported that one nr tho Zeppe
lins attempted to diop bombs on tlie Rre.U
factories at UlrinliiKhani Most of the
ammunition which Is beliiR pinduced by
L'liRlnnd is coming from the creat chain
of Industrial plants at lllrniliiRhnm
Tlie attnclilnc balloons pencil ated
1 fatthcr into the Intel ior of IhiRlnnd in
this mid than in ant other since the
uoilal tt hi fine against KnRland nan Inau
Kiliated b the Kaiser.
ACQUITTED OF MANSLAUGHTER
Driver Freed From Charge of Having
Caused Woman's Death
WLST CIIRSTKIl. Pa. Feb 1 ISenJa
niin Meredith, of Mndcna, accused of
manslaughter In causing tho death of.Mis,
Abfah 'Dickinson, of Laurel, by lecklessl)
lilting a team on a toad near Morton
title, and colliding with a buggy hi which
Mrs Dickinson was riding. In September
of last )car. was aiquitted by a Juiy
hero todat
4 CHILDREN BURNED
IN EXPLOSION OF OIL;
TWO FATALLY INJURED
Parents Also Hurt in Effort to
Save Little Ones at
Montrose Street
Home
NEIGHBORS TO RESCUE
Tito children were fatall) binned and
two others and their parents s-erlously
Injuied toda) when a gasoline explosion
suddenly tiansforincd the kitchen of their
home, nt 8.18 Montrose street, Into a bluz
lug furnace.
The Injuied:
JOHN ZANOH1 .1 jciirs old, rcnnsslmnla
IIosplt.il. ulll die.
JACOII XA.snill. Jr , .1 months old, Pnns.
hiiI i lluspltnl, "III dig.
JACOII ZAM1HI. 12 tears old. tli father.
I'ninylviinla Hospital, berlously burned nil
pans of t,od
VIXC1JXT ZANUHI, ! jearn old, Pennsjltanla
Hospllul. erlousl burned.
MltS. MXIIV iSANlSHI. :w jfars old. the
nioiher. Ilownnl Hospital, badly burned
hundf, fnie an,l bod.
MICHXKI. K.XNrjIII, .'! jears old. Honard
Hosplt.il. badl burned band nnd face.
In addition, Reserve Policeman William
J. Heed, of -fit? South Finnklin street,
who was passing, spi ained his ankle In
aiding hi the icscuc nnd was taken to
tlie I,enns)lt,inia Hospital.
Three other childieii of the family of
11 bos and girls ttho were In the room
escaped unhuit. One-)eai-old Lucy,
thrown to the llooi by the force of the
explosion, ttas snatched up b) Josephine,
12 )ents old, and carried to safct), as
tins i,-) ear-old Joseph
The family wns gatheied about the
breakfast table after the morning meal
1 tthen a gallon of gasoline, standing too
near the stote, exploded with u report that
shook the building llesouers who tlrst
anhed found an appalling Mghl In the
burning room. Zanghl and his wife,
blinded b) the Hash, were groping for
I their children Little Jacob, his clothing
buiued from his body, was lying in a
lornei of tho loom in a bed of llames.
The mother, who expects another child
boon, seized 3-) eat -old Michael, it ho had
been hulled from his high chair b) the
concession, and i.iced with him two
situates to the 7th and Carpenter streets
station
No time wns lost in saving the childieii.
File Lieutenant Joseph Moore, of KnMne
Compati) No. 4S, maishuled a squad of
III emeu, who, with Sergeant (allagher,
Policeman Hoffman and deserve Police
man iteed, passed the children out of the
house.
Vehicles weie commandeered to rush
the victims to hospitals. A meat wagon I
was pressed Into service foi tlie run to I
the Howard Hospital, where the mother '
and Michael were taken Little Jacob, i
Kdying. was rushed to the I'ennstlvanla
Hospital in an unaertaKers wagon A ;
meat wagon carried John to the same
hospital, to which chemical engine No. IS
convee4 the father and Vincent.
Four other children In the family had
jut left the house when the explosion oc
curred They are. Ton). U )cars old, and
Frances, 13 jeais old, who had gone to
work, and liichard, 1 years old, and
Providence, 10 years old, to school.
When the rescueis had finished their
work and turned their attention to. the
tire, the Mapies had made great headway
In the hoiike. soaked by the scattered u I
Whi.e firemen turned streams of water
on the budding others searched through
flumes and smoke for other hcuiiu unlil
Josephine ,iled out that 4a fce large
bread was accounted tor
EXTRAI
MASKED CRUISER DISGUISED
AS TRAMP, CAPTURED APPAM
The name of the German vessel which captured the Appam and
sank tin? othet vessels was the Moewe. She Is desrHbcci as a tramp
steiuushtp. She nppronchd the Appnm flying a British flag, the pas
acngcta ilerlnreil. As she halted the Appam she law down tlie British
flog and pulled up the German colore. At the same time ft", r mtUs
built upon Iifi to make her appeal as a tramp were loweied and she
showed a full .ivmnment of 10-inch guns. She captuied the Appnm
(10 miles 'not tk of the Mnrleha Islands. It .was said that she came
f loin tho Kiel Canal and had stolen through the entire Biitisk North
Sea fleet and the British vessels iu the Atlantic. Duilug this entire
cnilsfi slio win tlisgtilsed as a tramp and flew a Swedlh flag.
PHILADELPHIA EXPORTS INCREASED BY $2,000,000
January exports from Philadelphia totaled about $10,000,000 In value, ap
proximately JL',000,000 moro than that of January, 1915, It was reported today
at a meotlnR of the Commlssionets of Navigation. Tho craln shipment was
4,870,561 bushels, an Increase of 1,!)-'6,1L'8 bushels; nn Increase was shown in
coke, coal, lubricating oil, refined and kiih oils and war material exports. All
Imports showed a sllRht Increase except sUBnr, bananas, chrome oil, llcorlco
root and cotkwood.
GERMAN AIRSHIP RAIDS ALLIES IN GREECE
MKRLlIs, Feb. 1. A German ahshlp has bombarded the Allies' ships nnd
stoics at Salopian with Rreat success, the AVnr Office announced today, (snulne;
the following report of operations on the K.ilKan thoatie of war: "One of our
airships attacked the ships nnd depots of the Kntente Powers at the port of
S.ilonica with Rreat miec-css,"
TURKS CHECK RUSSIANS BEFORE ERZERUM
ItKltLIN, Feb. 1. -Tho Tmks linto halted the Russian advance upon tho
full! ess of nizeititn nnd hate checked all attempts of the British relief forco
to tench Ihe gntrison surrounded ut Ktit-cl-Aninra, Constantinople reported
toda. No Russian foico has ttppioachcd within several miles of the Krzcrum
foils on the east, Constiintlnoplo tepoitcd. Roth tinniest are suffering Intensely
fiom tho hPterc cold. In Mesopotamia, the situation of the British force sur
rounded In Kut-cl-Amaia is becoming desperate.
GERMANS REINFORCING FLANDERS LINES
A.MSTIJUDAaM, Feb. 1. Large bodies of Gcinian catnlry und seteral land
slitint divisions have passed through Lleso, entente to the Yser front. In the
past few Ihh. Titivelers .irtlving here today reported that the Germans
expect an allied otfenslte within a fortnight attd are strengthening their lines
in Flanders.
MORGENTHAU LEAVES TURKEY ON VACATION
RCRL1N, Feb. 1. -Wenr) .Moigciitluiu, Amcilcan Amlussadot to Turkey, left
Constantinople on a tncatlon today, according to dispatches recelted here, and
probably will t Isit the United States befoic his tettirn. Morgenthatt is expected
to reach llerlliijalthla week.
BERLIN DENIES GOEBEN WAS DAMAGED
11I2RLIN, Fob. I. The Oterse.is News Agency today issued the following
statement. "The I'odliu anil iMalt.i wireless services are clicnlutlng n Pdlro
grad repoit tli.il tlie citilser lioeben, after an engagement with the Russian
warship ImpprntrllAi .Mm la. letntned to pott damaged and carr)ing 33 killed
and S wounded. This whole report was Invented. In an engagement on Junu
nry S the Russian wntsliip llred I'OO shots, all of which missed. The Imperatrltza
Mai la was lilt."
VON PAPEN PAPERS REACH WASHINGTON
WASHINGTON, Feb. 1. Copies and photographs of tho letters, check-stubs
and other papers taken fiom Cuptuin vein I'npcn, the lecullcd German military
attache, by the Ilritisli tiuthoi Itles ttcro reojftved nt the .State Department early
today in tho diplomatic pouch fiom London. The Secretary him not yet hod
time to Inspect them.
BELGIAN PUT TO DEATH AS SPY
AMSTUItDA.M, Feb 1. I'aiil Louis Meitens, or Lier, ni-tu Antwerp, was
coiit"l-martlaled nnd shot us n spy ut Ilnsselet, Kelglttm, .htnuary "5, according to
ti dispatch to tlie Telegnuif from Maastricht.
AMERICAN WOMAN'S SLAYER TO STAND TRIAL
ARKS55SO, Italy, Feb. 1. Peter Itossl. the )oiing Ituliuji student who shot
Mrs. Mury 12. Flavelle, of Chicago, on 11 railway train near Arezzo In May, 19H,
will ho brought to trial on Febrinuy Ti. The date for tho trlul was set todny.
Rossi has confessed his crime unci the tilal Is expected to be short.
VIENNA DENIES AUSTRIAN SUBMARINE SANK PERSIA
WASHINGTON. Feb. 1. The- Stnto Department unnounced today that ths
Austrian Government officially has denied the sinking of tho British liner
Persia, with a loss of two Ameilcan lives it tv.is unnounced that ths
official denial of the Austrian Government reached the State Department
a week tigo, but th'ough un oversight It ttas not oisiotcred until today.
80,277 IRISH IN WAR; 100,000 AVAILABLE
LONDON, Feb. 1, From thu uutlnctik of the war to January S the iccrulta
raised by It eland numbered 86,277, according to the repoit of LUron Wimbourne,
Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. He estimates that nt present there are abou.t
400,000 unattested single men of military age in Ireland. Deducting those Indis
pensable fur agricultuie, commerce und the production of munitions und those
medically unfit for service, he concludes that the single men actually aval lab le
would hardly eM-eeil 100.000.
CHINESE PROVINCES RAVAGED BY REVOLT
PHK1N, Feb. I. Kwelchovv Province Is in full rebellion. The Governor was
forced t (lee on January 16. Communications have been Interrupted, Luchqw
and Tzellutslng ure reported to huve
American gunboat Monocac) Is ut Chung-king on the Ynngtse Kiang, about SO
miles to the northeast of Luchovv. The commander has notified Dr. Paul Sumuel
Reinsch, the American Minlbter to China, that all Is ejulet In that neighborhood.
NORWAY HOLDS POWERS TO TREATY
LONDON, Feb. 1. Tho Christiunla Journal says that tlte Norwegian lor
eign Minister announced at 11 sectet meeting of Parliament that the Govern
moMt hntl ,1nlilfrl lint in frlva liotlf-A tn IHn Hlfrmitnrv I'on rl nf rilMnnnHnnnnf-A
nt Itin Iro.ili' ct 1 QftT Thl tr&ntv f7ltnrnntpftiiir lht tnrlAnenHnnpn nrwl i-i-trtrtft ? 1
Integrity of Norway, was signed by Great Britain, France, Russia and Germany,
as well as Norway. "This does not signify that the Government haa assumed
a definite attitude in the matter," the Journal continues, "but merely that It
considers the present moment Inopportune for an a,ct which inlght be wrongly .
Interpreted as meaning that Norway was abandoning neutrality,"
HUNGARY LOOKS FORWARD TO BIG INDEMNITY
MILAN, Feb. 1. In the Hungarian Chamber of Deputies the economic sit
uation was discussed by Deputy Hollo, who advocated prohibition of tha
importation of all unnecessary articles. Ha said: "We must learn, to forego,
if necessary, coffee, rice, chocolate und all products that are not national "
Minister of Finance Teleszy replied that the nation need not be alarmed nt the
fnlj of exchange which is due to the isolation of Germany and Austrla-HunsMry si
(rum the res: or ine woriu. vtll Ausirui -
eventually be mane up oy exacting a big
AUSTRIANS ORDERED TO
HBUNlC. Feb. 1 A military order
of Hoechts, near the Swiss frontier, for
of copper frum roofs of churches to.
wuiuuonj.
been captured by the revolutionists. The, fi
Mungury a nnanciai tosses, ne sflld, .vtti;.
war indemnity from the Allies.
MELT DELLS AND HOOUf ,
has been received at the Austrian vitta '"?
delivery of the largest church bells and
the authorities fur tiiB nianufaLtut J
I
m
m
t
t
thee Lwt and l'uiuitt Ad 4a l'uxe 1$
