Daily and Sunday
HERALD
30
Cents a
Month
DELIVERED TO YOUR HOME.
THE
HERALD
AS first announced January I. |916, Tbe Herald
guarantee? full money'* worth to the purchasers
of article? advertia-ed in the display columns of this
paper by ?any Washington merchant.
(Circuler Furnished l'pon Recarti ?
NO. 3395.
WEATHER?PARTLY CLOUDY; COLDER.
WASHINGTON. D. C., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1916.
n\P ?nrVT ?? *?'"????" ama r.iwi. >.*..?-?...
UBJJ ????^ Xa Ttarrrl. EUCUHCRE TWO C.MT?.
DEATH CONFRONTS 200
FROM SWIRLING FLOOD
NEAR PINE BLUFF, ARK.
Hemmed in by Red Fork Levee, Refugees
Must Perish Unless Aid Reaches
Them Within Few Hours
FARMERS' FAMILIES IN TREES
People Ree From South Part of Lafayette, Ind. ? Mis
sissippi on Rampage and Two Levees Break Below
Memphis?Wabash Rising Foot an Hour.
Sataertal ta The Washington lierait
Chicago, Jan. jl.?Immense damage by floods in widespread sections of the
country is shown in reports received tonight from International News Service
correspondents.
The Mississippi River levees have broken in two places below Memphis, and
six towns in Mississippi have been inundated.
Two hundred persons are facing death by drowning and are hemmed in
behind the Red Fork levee, between Little Rock and Pine Bluff, Ark., and will
perish unless help reaches them within a few hours. The flooded condition of
the river also is menacing every farm along the Mississippi in Mississippi and
Arkansas.
Mississippi River steamers are unable to rescue many fanners' families along
the river who have been sighted perched in trees.
Families are fleeing the southern part of Lafayette, Ind., on account of the
flooded condition of the Wabash River, which is rising a foot an hour.
I .id ianapolis. Logansport. Tipton and*
Marion are threatened by th? high wa
ter. In Indianapolis a large force of
wcnkmen after hours of desperate toil
has completed a temporary flood wall in
an uncompleted portion of the new levee.
The local weather forecaster at Indian
apolis predict* that the crest of the flood
will be reached at midnight. One death
ls reported as a result of the flood.
The Wabash River is threatening Vin
cennes. Terre Haute, Lafayette and
I-ogan^port. The Illinois River la rtalng
rapidly at Cairo. Ti.e indications are
that the water will reach fifty-four feet.
The death list ln the flood tn. the San
Diego district. Cal., stands at thirty-four.
Estimates of the damage range from
rSfUOO to $1.000.0?. Relief work is being
rushed.
Gosthdh Back
From Canal Zone
Arrives with Gen. Edwards.
Both Deny Rumors of
Friction.
New York, Jan. 31.?Gen. George W.
Goetha.s, governor of the Canal Zone,
and Brig. Gen. Clarence R. Edwards,
commanding the United States troops on
the isthmus, arrived here today on the
United Fruit liner Calamares. Both de
nied there had been dl.Terences between
them as to the conduct of affairs on the
Isthmus. They are on their way to Wash
ington to appear befo*??; a Congressional
committee on February I.
According to passengers, the offlcers
3id not speak to each other during the
voyage from Colon to Havana, but rev
ozniied each other merely by ?salute.
After the Calamares left Havana, they
beenne more friendly. On their arrival
today *hey posed for the photographer?
together. Gov. Goethals dined at Capt.
Jensen's table, and Gen. Edwards dined
with his aid. Capt. Joseph A. Marmon. at
another table.
Gen. Edwards stated that he would re
port to MaJ. Gen. Leonard Wood before
going to Washington. He said there
would soon be 10.000 troops on the isth
mus. When asked if this number would
be sufficient, he replied; "That is not for
m? to say."
TWO STEAMERS REPORTED LOST
llrlllali Hut Appalarhtc and In.
??..?. ...... Mlaalas.
New York, Jan. 31?Wireless message?
picked up at sea by the White Star
freighter Bovic. which arrived today
trom Mancheater. In-tic-ate that the Brlt
lah steamer Appalach? and an unknown
ateamcr have been lost.
The movements of the Appalachee have
not been report???! since she entered the
aervice of the British government. She
waa owned by the Anglo-American OH
Company, of New Castle, and waa built
In 18M.
Reports that the Finland was standing
by a steamer in distress were received
by wireless last w?k.
Turk Governor Flees for Life.
Athena. Jan. a.?Threatened with death
by the young Turks, who accused him of
favoring the alliea. Rahmi Bey. Vail
(governor) of Smyrna, has fled from that
city and taken refuge on a British war
ahlp. according to a dispatch from Sa
loniki.
Scotland Yard Employs Women.
London. Jan. 31.?For the flrst time In
hiatory women are being employed by
Scotland yard to take the place of police
men who have enliste?] and gone to war.
About a acore of women are now at
tached to DM "yard."
American Academy Helps Cripples
Home. Jan. 31.?Announcement waa
made today that the American Acad
emy haa pl:i?-ed at the disposal of the
war ministry the magnificent villa
llir-afloii for mutilated and blind sol
dera
BULLETS KILL
TWO AUTOISTS
Mrs. Charles Teiper, Wealthy
Buffalo Widow, and Son
Are Victims.
SURVIVING SON CLOSELY
QUESTIONED BY POLICE
Daughter. Near Death in Hospital.
Unable to Tell of Attack.
Bandit Story Weakens.
Sa,?Kurai to Tha Waahingtoo Herald.
Buffalo. Jan. 31.?Mr?. Charle? Teiper.
a wealthy widow, and her eon. Frederick
C. Teiper. are dead and her daughter.
Grace. 1? dying, and another eon, John
Kdtvard Teiper. is under guard, as the
result of a murderous attack on a lonely
road at Orchard Tark. near here, last
ni-Tht.
The sur?, ivine eon told the police a story
of an assault and robbery by a nt?gTo.
Sheriff Stengel, after an all-night Investi
gation, including a searching examination
of John Teiper. announced that the mur-?
der? werai not committed by a highway
man. He declared the mystery surround
ing the crimes would soon be dispelled.
When the sheriff and District Attorney
Wesley C. Dudley had finished their in
terrogation of the only member of the
family party of four who escaped with
inconsequential injurie?, they left a
deputy sheriff to watch his movements.
John Teiper, the survivor, is 34 years
old. Although educat?5d at Troy as an
cnslneer. ht- has been In charge of a
brlck-maklng plant at Orchard Park.
Diarrrpanrlra .\oted.
He says that aa he was trying to re
pair the machine, he received a severe
blow on the head. He retained enough
consciousness to be aware of a negro
struggling with his brother Fred,
When he was able to take full cog
nizance of his surroundings, he declared,
he found bis mother sitting in the auto
mobile dead with a bullet wound in her
head, his brother Fred dead with his
skull crushed by a blunt Instrument, and
his sister probably fatally wounded.
Dis??repancies ln the survivor's story ap
peared. It also waa quickly discovered
that Mrs. Teiper had not been shot where
her body waa found. Death in her case
had been caused, not by the bullet, but
by blows on the head. She was dead be
fore she was shot
Paints 1.000 Cats; Then Dies.
' Pitman, N. J., Jan. 31.?Mr?. E. M.
Gardner, an artist, who paint??d nothlng
?If but cats, was stricken with blind
ness just as she finished ner one thou
sandth painting of a feline.
Crane Leaves New Haven.
New Haven, Conn., Jan. 31.?Former
Senator W. Murray Crane, of Massa
chusetts, has resigned as a director of
the New Haven. No reason Is given.
but the fact was admitted today at the
railway offices here today.
Anglo-Jap Treaty Denied.
Tokio, Jan. 31?The foreign office issued
a statement today denying? the report
that Japan and England have signed a
treaty that recognizes Japan's superior
rights ln the Far East.
Cruiser Shells Sedd-el-Bahr.
Constantinople (via London). Jan. 31.?
Dardanelles front; On the 28th a hostile
cruiser fired twenty shell? Into Sedd-el
Bahr.
Fire Burns Through Concrete.
I-ansford. Pa., Jan. 31?The mine fire '
which has r.een raging for sixty years In
Panther Creek Valley, has burned Its
way through a fifteen-foot concrete wall
and threatens the high coal min?
NEW HEIR IS BORN TO
M jLEAN-WALSH FORTUNE
Vinion Walsh McLean, of thl?
city, reputed to be the wealthl??t
child ln the Unlttsd State?, now
has a little brother to ?haro th?
honors with him.
The baby was born to Mrs. Ed
ward B. McLean last evnlng
?hortly after S o'clock, at the
McLean mansion. Twenty-first
?treet and Massachuaett? avenue
northwest.
"It's a boy." explained the but
ler in response to telephone calla
"Just say the mother and baby
are doing fine."
Mr. McLean, father of the new
baby. Is prominent as a pub
lisher and clubman. He married
Evelyn Walsh, daughter of Mra
Thomas H. Walsh. Vlnson U
about five years old.
U.S. REFUSES TO
ARBITRATE THE
LUSITANIA CASE
Lansing Bares Mailed Fist in
Demand for Uncondition
al Disavowal.
PROPOSALS REJECTED
Two Requests for Settlement
of Dispute by Court Are
Turned Down.
The United States government has com
pletely shut off any hop? of a settle
ment of the Lusitania controversy with
Germany through the machinery of In
ternational arbitration.
This fact, obtained last night from an
official source, indicates the exten to
which ?Secretary Lansing has bared the
mailed fist In his demand for an uncon
ditional disavowal by Germany.
The refusal to arbitrate. It was learned,
was based on the ground that the "vital
Interests and national honor" of the Unit
ed States be.ng involved, ttv* matter was
one which could not be submitted to
arbitration.
It was the second time that such a pro?
posai had been turned down, and it waa
rejected definitely and finally, it la re
liably stated, at the last conference which
the Secretary of State had with Am
bassador Bernstorff.
On tho occasion of his last conference
wtth Mr. L-ansing Count von Bernstorff
said Germany greatly deplored the loss
of American lives on board the Lusi
tani*, and was willing to demonstrate
the extent of her regrets by paying an
indemnity. She could not. the Ambas
sador insisted, admit that the attack
without warning on the Lusitania was
illegal.
Attack a Repi-leal.
Thla attack, he is said to have insisted,
was a reprisal agninst Great Britain's
illegal blockade. International law. he
argued, recognizes that reprisals are
legal. There is nothing in international
law, the Ambassador contended, wh1< h
states that reprisals cannot be under
taken if they endanger the lives of
neutral.??*?.
That being the case, he held, the as
sumption wag that neutrals should keep
out of harm's way when plain warning
is given that reprisals are to be re
sorted to. Nevertheless, the Ambassador
is declared to have suggested, Germany
was perfectly willing that the question
should be determined by an international
court of arbitration.
Secretary Lansing is reported to have
replied that the right of tho Americans
to be on board the Lusltan'g could not
be questioned; and that their right to
the protection which International law
accords to neutrals on the high seas was
too firmly established to admit of de
bate.
While it Is insisted that there is no
connection existing between the Lusi
tania negotiations and the proposals of
Secretary Lansing to the entente powers
looking to the disarming of merchant
men suggestive of anything like a bar
gain, the hop? is nevertheless expressed
that the favorable Impression created
in Germany by these proposals will give
the Berlin foreign office a loop-hole
through which lt might make conces
sions of sufficient value to avoid a break
In diplomatic relations.
No Pay; Police Quit.
Teaneck, N. J., Jan. 31.?Because they
failed to vote any appropriation for
policemen, residents are arming to pro
tect the town when the police depart
ment?a chief and four patrolmen?quit?
tonight.
Want Bilicar Army Shifted.
Milan, Italy, Jan. ?31.-?Germany ts in
sisting that the Bulgarian army be shift
ed from Macedonia to the eastern theater
of war. says the Secolo. In this way,
says the newspaper, the Kaiser hopes to
avoid difficulties between Bulgaria and
Greece during an offensive campaign
against the allies at Saloniki.
Dutch Liner Strikes Mine.
London. Jan. 31.?Th? Dutch liner Maas
dtjk has been badly damaged and beach
ed, it wa* announced tuday. Two mem
bers of the crew were killed. It u be
lieved that th? liner Ut a mine . 1
A
Zeppelin Fleet Raids English
Counties, Dropping Several
Bombs; Slight Loss Reported
-'?
German Aircraft Sweeps Over Wide Section?Lxmdon, Long
Expecting Attack, Makes Preparations to Repel Teu
ton Invaders?War Office in Charge.
Special Cabla to The Wa ibi niton Herald.
London, Jan. 31.?The war office offi
cially announces that a Zeppelin raid was
made tonight by six or seven airships
over the eastern and northeastern Mid
land counties. A number of bombs wer?
dropped. Up to the present, aaya the
war office statement, Inconsiderable dam
age haa been reported.
Thta appears to be the most ambltioua
aerial raid undertaken by the Germana
up to thia time. Not more than four
Zeppelins were represented In any air
raid around London.
New Zeppelin raids on London and thai
east coast of England were expected byl
the authorities. On January 26, a special
warning waa sent out by the police.
After referring to the increase In the
offensive protection .against hostile air
craft recently provided ln the metropolt
than district, lt advlaed the public to
lake cover during the air raida. Only
recently the defense from air attacks has
been placed ln the hands of the war of
fice. Previously the admiralty had charge
of this matter.
Child Witness Gives Sordid
Details of Dr. Mohr's Amours
Ten-Year-Old Son of Slain Man Tells Result of His System
of Espionage in Valiant Effort to Save
His Mother.
By DOROTHY DIX.
BpacUl to The \Ya*hUigtoo ? .raid
Providence, R. I., Jan. 31.?The sad
dest and most sordid spectacle in all
the Mohr trial took place today when
little Charlie Mohr was placed upon
the witness stand to strive to save
his mother. There have been many
things of singular repulslvaness ?
about this case, but the most repul
sive thing of all was when thia little
child waa forced to wade through the
tides of scandal that ebb and flow
around his father's murder.
Charlie Mohr Is ten years old. He
is a good looking little lad with
brownish blue eyes and dark hair like
his*mother. and a nice little inquisitive
snub nose with freckles on it. He Is
almost pr?ter intural.y 'ntellige^T, with
the sharp little face of a street gamtn.
and the hard wise looks of the child
who Is old in the bitter knowledge of
the wickedness of the world before he
is old in years.
For whatever else Mrs. Mohr may
have dqne, or left undone, ber unfor
givable crime ls that she made of this
fine little boy a sneak and a spy?a
child sleuth, who snooped around lis
tening, watching, eavesdropping, re
porting on the father who was kind
and affectionate and Indulgent te>
him and that she constituted him a
go-between for herself and her other
spies.
Wor? still, in order to make the
boy's spying effective, she sacrificed
the Innocence of his very babyhood. ?
? trim little figure, in a nice blue ?
suit with a wide white collar, Charles j
cam? Jauntily iqt-v U*? court room and!
took his place upon the witness stand,]
COXTISTED ON TAGE POCH,
Brilliance and Beauty at
Southerners' Charity Ball
Relief Society Challenges Previous Social Events with Ele
gance of Event at the New Willard?President and
Mrs. Wilson Wire Their Good Wishes.
B> MILDRKD M\RMIU?I. KOOXfE.
Representatives of all circles of fash
ionable socifty in the capital?and espe
cially the southern contingent?gathered
at the Willard last evening, when the
Southern Relief Society held its annual
benefit ball Always a notable occasion.
the ball last evening proved a record
breaker in point of brilliance and at
tendando, excelling not only its own
previous triumphs, but threatening th<?
laurels of other charitable entertainments
of the season.
Before 10:30 o'clock both ball rooms
were filled, the boxes were all occu
pied, with not a vacant chair left In
the entire suite, and quests were still j
arriving from the numerous smart dinner
parties which preceded the dance.
The President and Mrs. Wilson, who
had expected to attend, sent a telegram '
Auto Kills Boy;
Girl Is Driver
Edward Poole, 12 Years
Old, Dies at Hospital?Miss
Ruth Wilson Driving Car.
Twelve-year-old Kdward Poole, of 3330
Georgia avenue northwest, died In Gar
field Hospital early this morning from
Injuries received when run down by the
automobile of Alfred WiUon, postmaster
of Bethesda, Md.. at 3:45 o'clock yester
day afternoon. The accident occurred ln
Sherman avenue between Morton place
and Park road. The boy'e collar bone
and left leg were broken, and it Is be
lieved he sustained Internal Injuries.
When the boy was struck the machine
was being driven by Miss Ruth "Wilson,
17-year-old daughter of the i?ostmaster.
under her father's directions. Young
Poole was skating, and it la believed both
he and the girl became confused as they
neared each other. Wilson placed the In
jured lad In the car and hurried to Gar
field Hospital, after which he was ar
rested on a charge of colliding. He was
released on $500 bond. At an early hour
this morning Coroner Nevitt had not an
nounced tne result of his investigation.
20,000 March on Peking.
London. Jan, 31.?A Reuter dispatch
from Mukden. Manchuria, states that
20,120 Mongolian rebels are marching
upon Peking.
3,093 Miners on Strike.
Glasgow, Jan. 31.?Three thousand
miners wen?, on strike today, as a pro
test against wage reduction?!. Three
collierie? ax* ldl?
of regrets and go?d wishes, which was
read to the company by Senator Swan
son. Miss Margaret Wilson and Miss
Helen Wood row Bones and Mrs. McAdoo
also attended. Mrs. McAdoo taking her
Place In the receiving line. The Vic?
President was in the line, but Mrs. Mar
shall was unable to endure the fatigue
of receiving and ?pent the evening tn
their box.
The ballroom suite was an attractive
scene, gay with Southern smilax and
palms und tier on tier of pink-shaded
lights. The Marine Band played for the
dancing. Supper was served in the palm
G0??1 on the main floor of the hotel.
Miss Nannie Randolph Heth was at the
head of the receiving line, others being
Mrs. Lansing, Mrs. McAdoo. Mra
Gregory, Mrs. Burleson. Mrs. Daniels,
Mrs. l^ane, Miss A^nes Hart Wilson.
?cxmrnmB o?~paoe three.
Scores Are Shot
In Food Rioting
Mobs Break Loose in Lisbon,
Berlin and Dusseldorf,
Prussia.
S.wrUl CiWa to The w**hiiy^<m HenM.
Lisbon, Jan. 31.?Food riots that
broke out here Saturday only to be|
quelled by soldiers, who shot more (
than a score of persons, were resumed
today. Sunday passed quietly with
troops patrolling the streets, but
when the shops reopened this morn
ing they were stormed by mobs led
by women.
Nine soldiers were injured by a
bomb thrown in the market place
when they Interrupted a meeting at
which the speakers were assailing
the government for permitting the
shopkeepers to maintain their high
prices.
London, Jan. 31.?A Central News
dispatch from Amsterdam ?ays that
food riots have been resumed ?tt Ber
lin and that In the latent clash troops
called out to disperse the rioters
opened fire, killing six persons and
wounding several others.
Amsterdam, Jan. 31.?A dispatch
from Dusseldorf. Prussia, this after
noon states that food riots occurred
there last week. Women paraded the
streets, demanding that their hus
bands be sent back from the front
and cried for food tor their children.
?
LIKENS T. E. TO HIS DOG
WHO RAH FROM A "TABBY
Senator Reed, of Mlaaouri,
Democrat, In the courae et a
epeech In the Senate yesterday.
likened Col. Roosevelt to a doc
that ha (the Senator) used to
own.
"Whenever a atray animal
went alona; the streets,?' aald
Senator Reed, "my warrior draw
back hla lipa and abowed hla
dangerous fangs; hla eyes glared
like the headlight of a locomo
tive; his red tongue darted out
for gore; hla hair atood on end,
and he filled the air with roaring
and growling. Intensely Rooae
veltlvc, but when you unchained
him a tabby cat could play with
hia tall with ahaolute Immunity
from punishment and hla natural
habitat wa? under the porch."
BOAT LIKE K-5,
BOUND SOUTH, IS
REPORTED SEEN
Capt. Fenn, of the Canficld,
Sees Vessel Resembling
Missing Sub.
BENSON IS CONFIDENT
Wireless Works Bad in Fog.
May Reach Key West
Tomorrow.
The submarine K-5. which haa been
missing in a fog: off Charleston, S. C, la
now believed to b* aare. A veaael resem
bling her ls reported to have been sighted
off Jupiter Inlet In a dispatch received
at the Navy Department at 10 o'clock last
night.
The dispatch forwarded by the Charles
ton navy yard from Jupiter Inlet reads
as follows.
? steamer I? A. Canficld reports what
appeared to be the sub-manne K-S st I:,
p. m. January tl. twelve miles north of
Jui?'.?.-- ,?< rfcfeW-**"^ "*"?
The dispatch is signed "Capt. Fenn.'
who is supposed here to command the
Can field.
Admiral William S. Benson, chief of
operations, expressed his positive con-1
viciions that the vessel ts safe and pro
ceeding to Key West.
According to Navy Department reck- '
ontnga, the submarine, if proceeding at
ordinary cruising speed, would not reach
Key West until Wednesday.
The same confidence that the boat Is
still safe is expressed generally through- :
out department circles. Secretary Dan
iels had little to say, and appears to
be awaiting further details.
Officers familiar wtth the workings of
submarines find no cause for surprise tr.
the fact that no wireless messages have
been received from the K-Z. The static
conditions of the atmosphere in & fog.
such as that now hanging over Cape Hat
teras, they, say, are often such that s
wireless of the limited rai us used on a
submarine, which can ?end only seventy
ftve miles, cannot make itself heard.
Destroyers and navsl tuga have been
sent out from Charleston and Key West,
and Coaat Guard cutters are also patroll
ing the coast.
The other boats of the submarine flo
tilla, the K-l. K-2 and K-6. under con
voy of the submarine tender Tsllahassee.
put out from Charleston yesterday after
noon at 1 o'clock to continue their cruise
to Key West.
DANCE" TUNES 7-REVENT
PANIC WHEN SHIP HITS
Musicians on Liner Philadelphia Play
Merry Measures and Passen
gers Are Calmed.
Liverpool, Jan. 31.?Merry dance tunes
Played by the musicians of the liner
Philadelphia prevented a panic on the
American vessel when it was seriously
damaged In a collision with the Knglish
sailing ship Ben Lee Saturday ntffht
There was a ruah for the decke when
the crash came, but the ship's band Im
mediately struck up and the music and
ralm words of the officers subdued even
the most excited.
Many of the passengers m?ade reserva
tions on other ships today, but some said
they would remain in Liverpool until
the Philadelphia was repaired.
Examination of the Philadelphia was
completed this afternoon. It showed
that the damage suffered by the itner
was such that no definite time could In
set for her to sail
12-YE?B-0LD A SUICIDE.
Girl Fail, to Vnem E laminati?*?? ?
Jampa fr????! W 1 ? ?? o ? .
New York, Jan. 31 .-Being told that ah*
had failed to j..??*?> her examlnattan?
Radio Oetroff, 12 yeara old. ?eft her ?chool
thl;? afternoon an-l. EOinft* tifa f.fth-itorv
wlndo? of her home in Avenue P. com
mitted intride by Jumplne to the yard.
Italian* Land in Aralona.
Berlin tvla wlrelan?. Jan. SI?Reporta
from Vienna state that the italiana have
landed a n'*?* Infantry divlaion and aev
eral batterle? of heavy artillery at Ava
lona. Albania Th'? Indicate? that Italy
??ill not abandon its position la
NONE CAN SAY IF U. S.
WILL BE DRAWN INTO
WAR, DECLARES WILSON
President Dwells Upon the Danger of Being
Forced Into Conflict in Dramatic
Speech at Chicago.
MAKES PLEA FOR DEFENSE
In His Fifth Address of the Day, the Chief Executive Also
Refers to Those Swayed by Personal Prejudices to
Forget Their Soundness of Reasoning.
?p?.l?l taa Th? V? ?a?kl??>< ? H - ? . c
Chicago. Jan. 31.?Pr?sidait Wilton tonight solemly warned 5.000 men and
womitn in the Auditorium that "no man can comptfently say whether the United
States will be drawn into the war."
The vast hall was as quiet as a death chamber when he made the di ?11
statement The President later stirred tbe assemblage to vigorous appiana? by
declaring that "this war was brought on by rulers and not by the people "
The applause lasted for several seconds. When it subsided, the President
continued vigorously :
"And I thank God there is no man in America who can bring ?an war with
out the consent of the people."
This stirred the crowd again to vigorous applause. It was the Prenaient s
fifth speech of the day. He had journeyed from^ Cleveland to Milwaukee and
back to Chicago since midnight last night. He did not show the effects of his
arduous day. He was, if anything, more vigorous in bis delivery than ?rarer.
He seemed inspired by his big audience
GIVE WORKERS
BIG INCREASE
Washington Ordnance Com
pany Pays Ten Per Cent
More Starting Today.
TWO THOUSAND EMPLOYES
WORK AT GIESBORO POINT
-
Shell? for BellietrcaLs \c Europe Cau?e
Thrmnf Butines?, Making Continu?
ou? Lmplcvmen?' N^cesaary.
Tbe w?v? of prosperi?? that U
??-??ping ?th? country mad? Itself
strikingly evident ln th? District yes
terday whin announcement was mad?
that the Washington Steel and Ord
nance Company will give He employes
at Glesboro Point a ten per cent gen
eral Increase in wages commencing
today.
The company employee approximate
ly :,<M?? men. all of whom will be af
fected by the order.
The plant Is engaged in the con
struction of shells for the belligerent
nations of Europe, and since the be
ginning of the war has been doing s
thriving burines?. working three
shifts a day.
The formal announcement of the In
crease in wage.*, as given out last
night by officials, reads:
"The Washington Steel and Ordnance
Company has announced to the men
In Its machine shops that, beginning
February I, there will be a ten per
cent general increase in wages. All
departments at the steel works are
busy and working with a full com
plement of men. and lt is figured thst
with this last increase in wages to
machinists, skilled m?chenles are re
ceiving wages higher than thoi?e at -any
other similar works In tbe country."
EARLYRISING PALLS;
BLOWS OUT HIS BRAINS
Butcher Balks at Getting Up at 3
A. M. and Ending Day*?
Labor? at 8 P. M.
New Tork. Jan. H?Because he had
to get up at 3 o'clock ln the morning
to report for work st the Wallabout
Market, Brooklyn. Henry Delhm, a
butcher, com m ! ted suicide today by blow
ing oil his bead with a shotgun. The j
police found a note which read:
"Good-by to all. Forgive me for this
act. I am tired getting up at 3 o'clock
and getting home st R p. m. I>ear Emma,
pie-aee give me | grave."
Emma Is the ?tie's name.
AMERICANS WARNED TO LEA VX
?A or?* G???-?? ?I In London that < rial,
1? Impa-nd-ia?
?a ndon. Jan. 11.?Word U beta? quietly
PR??????* to American? that now l? tho
tun? to lew England; that the crisi? la
acute bctwaa-tsn Germany and th? Vnltisd
State* and that breaking of diplomatic
relation? between tho? two countr-le?
will reault ln another cremi aubmarta?
c*m;?aigr. by the Teuton U-boat? that
will make Inalgplflcant th? flrat attack?,
which rtautted In the ?inkin*? of aeveral
transatlantic linera and ??roranj of ?mailer
?'??sa-li?
131 Women Killed by Airmen
Ber Ir. via Say ville ?arti-elea?, Jan. &.?
From ?September to December the ?Hie?'
artillery and ??replane?? killed lm mot
en. eighty-n'-n? men ?nd i?< vrnt ?-n
children ln B- lpvjrr. lc that part of
France held by the Germ-ana ?a a the
Ovtsraea* Newa Agency AU aaere no
?-orabantanta On? hundred and eighty
two man M woman an* V* cttil&raL?,
DI??rBeae. ??? ?
Tba' President, after dwelling si leegih
oc the grave danger 0f being drawn tato
the war. plunged Into a discussion of th.
navy and army and their ? as da. As
earlier ln the day he praised highly the
efficiency of our navy aa constituted. H.
declared, however, that tbe number of
v?asela and men must be Increased.
In dlacuaslng the war and tbe chance*
of Involving the I nlted Statea. tbe Preel
dent aald:
"I must admit that I have bean care
ful not to read newspaper reporta on de
talla of tbe war. I only w-mmad to see
It In its largest form ao tbat I could aee
America's task and duty
1 know on the other aide of the watei
tbe re baa been a toe of cruel tniajndc
imat ?as te wby tbe t'nlted Statea ha?
?remained neutral." tbe President said
later.
? r..l ?KtalentaallM
"They den't feel the conviction of
America as a notion of peace We are
?Deh more ready to lay down our lives
for a thought rather that, for a dollar.
"Many think we are holding off becauae
we make money while others are dying.
That Is the most cruel mlaiinderatandln%
of all."
The Preeldent continued bla bitter
attacka on thoae who allow their per
sonal prejudices to ret away with
their judgment
"1 wonder what their ids?, of Amer
icanism la?" he asked.
Imtat he repeated his statement of
having a double duty.
"You hsve laid upon na explicitly
the double obligation of maintaining
the honor and the peace of tbe Uni
ted Statea."
"I know that th? people are willing
to pay for the defense of the nation."
the President aald -We are neither
poor nor niggardly. But we don't In
tend to ?pay more than lt la worth,"
In emphatic tonea tbe President as
serted that be la ?Absolutely
dent that the preparednesa pr
will be carried through. H? declared
Ihere will be a debate In Congrasa flrat
but that the plans will not be de
feated
$157.280.400 MERGER
SOON TO BE EFFECTED
Three Big Steel Companies Are In
volved in Indepen-ient Corpora
tion Transaction.
Philadelphia Jan. tl -Flotation of the
big Independent Steel Corporation wtil
take place promptly unleas some unen
(Keeled eleventh-hour obstar,e ?shall be
encountered.
To start with. It is to <ake In the cAi
brla Steel Comperi? tbe Laekawenaia
Steel Company and the Toangatown Sheet
and Tube Company Tbe price to be paid.
tlil.tm.tm. ?arili be Involved tn tbe acquisi
tion of the stocka of these or?n
?FLTD?G ???G??" JUTE5T
Arms Avisiere ?afer free New
Malady 1 arides ? te Was.
Tyondon Jsn SI ? Firing ei? kn? ae ts the
latest disease prodaced by Oie m ar It
affects aviators and la brought oo by
tlie strain and exerttoo of long flights
under fire and battles ln hich eltlttidee.
Tbe symptoms are thus described
"Profound tesaltude. Intense headache,
fevertshnesa accelerated respiration and
occasiona?, spasmodic gulping ol air Uhi
Rah whea taken out ot tbe water.''
BnUih Lnradf Trenche?
Inonder. Jan fi-?During the night a
party entered tbe German trenches about
tb? K?BUD?i? W> ?(-bacie road. Thee.
trrnctaes were found tc be fiU: of man.
About forty ces-M?.u?? wee. inflicted on
tb? German? and three prisoner? were
r.rou*f**'. back
Mar-JI i.ru. Item Cirtrmmm Mettle, pres
sarci? lerv, ta-ee Tteksi? or aale Feb.
:?? io Ma ?-t. ? -' ???? ? ? * i? Ba ?a? Three
through ualns daily. TOi \*u. i.l ? St
?Adv.
B?i,
