F ,
' - i
v'i I:,
1 VOL IX, NO. y .'" '
t ..
3T CAirrGAX cuoTAnor;s
." ,'. X. Cento Dollar
Centrlfnirals N. T. Mf lb tr ton
lyrie Hawaiiaa bejri t-7 f 95J0 1
'ti prsvloel qaota
u .............
4.705
Ws.W
HONOLULU. '. HAWAII" TERRITORY. ; TUESDAY,' F'EJlRUARY;'.jf-.1916.SEMI-WEEKLV..VvV:--'
WHOLE NUMBER 400
mm
i
T' w I ' I : - ' ' - .ii . .... .. - . , .,
' Hi ! ' ,
i ..LI
r-'P",i ;rP'7
L..: .. .J (..Uuill
II? I i HOUSES
in nrnv tni i cV
liJ UIIUXkilLLLI
. united states Marines served
. 1 With ftifl Arr-nnnttinn With fir.
den To Shoot Robber' Stead-
;,.ing rropeny qi me uweiiers
V'" '"'-v"' '' '" v;' '' ' "V :
SfXTY BODIES RECOVERED
----- -V
AND DEATH RATE INCREASES
Relief of Flood Sufferers Now
Faces Serious Water. Famine
Anil DilAir4 ' T4fi . PAieiA
- a i4 wmw a ajaaoow wmww
& . h-v mf i -k t.l ' ffU a
; th coilaiM of tb Otay dam eon
. tinftad Mtnrda dMiit the effort of
th marine from the fleet at anchor in
the bay here, and denpite the bayonet
ing of two ef the vandal ' by the
Buaxde. The marine have been taken
, I torn the work of eearchioifc for the
dead and injured vinim of the flood,
' and put to protesting the property left
iataet from the band of 4kteve from
. the ity and the border- town. . c
EaHy in the day fattr white me were
caught at work robbing a hoo near
where IK ay formerly stood, and two or
inem were Dayoneieu. oj i ym . mui
' when they attempted to p . up a flght
rather thaa Mrrender. . All. lotrr were
brought to thi eity and placed under
' the guard of the loeal police.
The mok atringent- Ineaaarea have
'. been taken br the authoritle to put a
atop to the . tooting, -and the ' ' marine
. have been- eerved. with twenty. roanda
f riie ammunition each,' and ordered
to ahotft any - looter---found'; without
. warning. ... :.':;;.K. -.-
Tli virnr k ,irt MtLfhWiWiC Iks (HUT.
: time of the flood Koe on tadily. au-
tomobne from thi elty waiting at e
, lotted ipoto to bring the bodie to Ban
. - . . . L l qi.. I . 1
bodie have been taken 10 lar from, the
- wreckage and ' debrli . that litter - the
floor of the. Otajt valley, and it ia be
lieved that the death toil will pro
: bbocb Bit her thanvwaa at nrat eatt-
. mated." . ,' - r . . ... . "
Bubterlptlon And edstribution for
in oenent 01 tao nerer in tn utay
aan tne nan lmi ey vaueya aro ceing
aolicited here,ind it I aaid that at leant
100,000 will be. required 'to aro for
. . L - 1 . It.. i M . . I .
ui unineuina neeti or tne trjcieu
,, iiriri. ... tu ina urn, juanq: or. nmj
' valley the damage will amoa-1 to more
than million dollar, according to eon
errativa oathnatea mad by realty men
had other la touch with the eitaatioa.
j ... ; . . . i mi t . . . i .
ia me eaa toiia ney vry ma
- aire Will lint hm mm .knftTv. nrnhihlv mnt
reaching half of that figure. - .
V The city ott San plego, however. 1
facing the moxerious eriai of it
hiHtory. Absolutely dependent upon the
'reieryoira of the Oty, Moreua an J
Sweetwater lt, it bow- flind ltaolf
if iBr uuini aim n grave aanger
.; of collapse. Bo great hae the shortage
b0Mi that-the city ha ben forced
to appeal to the Cuymac Water Com
; pany for asaistanoe In meetins the
water , Bood of it people, and the
. ....- . i." . ... J-i
far ma iti ao limited supply will pr-
hl The) PiiVBrnaia l.rt im mtill L1,I.
ing, although fear aro still felt for
; Its safety. .,v1' '; ... :. . . .- ;
: The storm in thi section have com
v Sj, , VHjaiNawB) aoo VVIH JV
pletely disorganised; fcll . the railroad
acbedule, and . it waa (aid last night
; that It will be at leaat tbro week be-
, for the Ban Diego Aniona and the,'
Baa Diego .M Bouthe.stern U.e. will
bo ablo tOartfume regular running
J1".!- U better hape,
e- ?t ".i. "UUD'U ; "T ""7 vu':on tho capital today. A late won
mucatlon with nearby towna i. maia-1 ,uie, that . Yaan Bhia kai fear ihat
. tained by. mean of automobile bue.th military governor of this province
and fJitnovs. - Jx . ' j . and of th prpvlada of Bbangtung will
, Ia order to tnet tho requirements era- g0 over to the revolutionists. , Ho has
eted by th storm, it is announced that despatched -bv: representative. ' Youuv
v) V "'Ttr'."""
, weaa umii ,( . j- , . g
INDIANA STREAMS RAGINQ
INDIANAPOLIS. Jaauarv.' tl.
Throughout a 1 jarge . part of Indiana
- rivers and streams, are either running
with k th water level with the bank
v and 'threatening momentarily to go
-It I u h A aP aS Asvfriuktlv AuatrflA'avliiff In
undating the snrroundin country. The
ins are still - falling heavily. Hua-'
' dred of families have been driven tot
higher ground and aro homeless. .
Guards are patrolling the levee of
tbo White ttiver, wnere danger t ap
larent, and large force of men are
rady to get to work, at thi first sign
of a' break, . -!- ' -.
At Viaceanes the Wabash river ls
threateulug to go over its' banks. Terre.
Haute, Lafayette. Logan port and Karv
- . (Coutluued on Pag S )
' " .'. -; ' "
... ::iiaiis
l.uVOLT AGAIwST
CAUSE OF YUAN
Twenty Thousand Armed. Insur
gents Said To Be, Marching" .
; , - ' Upon Peking' y: ; V;
INSUnnECTION reported' v'
f - -; . ' SPREADING ll SOUTH
" ' . i ' ' ' . "
Monarchfst dovernors Bow Td
Storm and Desert To Rt-
'' , : : bel Ranks, v)1 . W
' (Aseeteto4 Thnm ty Pede-1 WlrsUs.)
PEKING, February 1 With twenty
tkounand men well armed and equippel
joiaug the rebel in Mongolia, and
with one after another of the southern
provinces joining the revolution in that
section, China Is today, in the grip
of the greatest political upheaval It has
ever seen in all the long year of it
history,, save only that which ended
with -the overthrow of the Manehu dy.
nasty, and the elevation of Yuan Bhlh.
kai to the post of president.
Have Doiem Canon ,. '-
The iosurgente in Mongolia have let
no grass grow onder their feet, if dee
patches from th Renter correspondent
at Mukden are to bo taken at their
face value, for the 'rebel aro reported
a having engaged in an active cam
paign against the monarchy, and to bo
marching ia the direction of ythi eity,
bringing with them a doten big guns.
. In tho soothera provinces the revolt
against', yuan Shih-kai i( ateadily
spreading ia iso and power. KweU
ebow province 1 said to have flamed
into full revolt, the people thero having
risen and driven out tho civil governor
who represented Yuan, -v .. ,
His troop piaoUy , W V.
. Although ho aaid to have attempted
to combat the 'growing revolt' he wa
powerless, a the iniurgenta took over
the control of the public build. age, and
his own wen a-efaadd to obey bis order.
The. rebela have cut commnnlcation
and tb extent of tho disaffection there
1 not known, . nobhe' detuu-. of tho
plan to carry tho flght further. : The
pities of UcUw nd Tsehtwing.aro
reported" captoredj by ' the rebel,' who
now nava a. large arjned lore ana ore
marching from point, to point. --Twelve
thousand. soldier from Kwel.
chow, aro reported . to. have "Joined .the
other rebels ia Yunnan, where a strong
army ha )eea organised, and aro aow
marching upon Chungking, ' to- attack
the federal force there... : ' .
.-Fighting 1 expected, a there ia a
heavy force of federal troop at Chung
king' ' :f:. v.".;--; V 'vl --,:
UAN GOVERNOR '"r
JOINS INSURGENTS ..
lineal Oablsarsa to Uherty Vew.) . . .
. BHANOHAI, January 11-Kiang Bi
province has gone over to-the revolu
tionary army. General Leo Sun, Yuan
Suih-hal'a military governor at Klang
Si.'Jia announced, that ho will oupport
tho revolution and hi army baa joined
tho ranks of the revolutionists. Gen
eral LeeS8un baa called for a meeting
of the representative of the tepublic
ia the epit to disc .is further plans
against Yuan Bhih-kaL . . . .
Yuan, had despatched the ,. twenty
fourth and twentyxfif th division against
the revolutionists Ood ha chosen Gen
eral Chun Dai to nHko the attack.
Chun Dal wire! back ty Yuan that the
force la Klang 81 were", too strong and
advised a surrender; Yuan' reply bad
not been received today. . '
Revolutionary soldier under the com
mand of QenOral Lo Piu Kammade aa
attack today - on. ; the prefect of Kok
Chow which . was captured.,'. Tha mon
archist soldiers" msde aa " attaejc on
Hang C'baw and , Hong 8baa lnv the
province of llunan. and both places
were captured by the monarebiats. Ow
ing to the' aragonistta feeling of th
people of these two prefects,, the moo
arc hints decided to withdraw and they
then retreated to Hupefc. - ' .
. Chang Bha, tho '. Capital ' of .Buaaa
- WtSa - l3K
ln , ftrTngth,od
their forc, 4 .ttiaV waa sUrta-l
province is (till ia control of the moo-
v,nung ivin, to investigate condition in
YUAN MAY QUIT
REPORT IN. TO KIO
. Spetal OshUaveai to ITlppa 'A.
TOKIO, January 81. An authentic
report from Peking say that it ia learn-
ed there that Yusa Shih kai U seriously
-eonsideriag retiring from the throne to
' ULIL La ..xkl. -1. a. . J . i
he is planning what step to taka In
doing, so. . . : .
The chief of. the Russian bureau of
eastern" sffuLrs ha gJne to Peking to
confer with Yuan. , Prince. Michael
ovitch left Beoul last hight for Aatung,
with Governor-General Teraoohl aad the
bureau chief, tho latter going to Peking,
while tbo prince will proceed to Potro
grhd. . ,': '.'s-tv . .'
Peking advice say the province of
Kweicbow has proclaimed it iudejend
once. . . v
VV7 HARP Scene In Kut-el-Amara, Mesopoumli, VVher Turks
- TV,.-rounded, and Toward Which Ojectiva Russian, nd British:
,v:,rNS'
BANDITS ROB TRAIN
AND KILL GOtERAL
J.
VillistaS Are Reported Torturing
Chinese Near Chihuahiia t "
f
(Associated Vress by y4rl Wbreless.) .-
JUAREZ, .Mexico, -February It
Bandit stopped, a train of jilio'Mnxi
ca CentraL Railroad at La Ouna,'tOn
mileo north of Ohiboahua last . night,
apd aftr robbing , the - passengers to-
movel.uenr l -nins urueias, soft murder-
ed-'fc.af briora fli... eye of . h9
fManVklek nh Wh tva laa ' Tha f vat i n waa iKAat '
allowed to proeeett
T. 1 r i v - wvTily mavantAfioouD to both natloaa, i
.- General Ornelas was formerly a com-man-Jant
Of tho Villa garrison at' this
place, ' and was charged .with having
plotted- with. Crransa' to surrender the
city to tho southern chieftain. ' Ho fled
to the United Btates'wben his coimpir
aey.was discovered,' but was "tried"
and sentenced to death by a Villa jury.
Yesterday; believing that he was safe,
ho entered Mexico again, and waa oa his
way to Ms home in Chihuahua, whe
canght and, k illed. s V.. ;..:' ' -.
From tho same section of the country
come report that tho Villa bandit are
busying themselves- attacking tho Chi
nese inhabitants of tho ' district, ' and
that they have seised ami tortured sev.
oral of their victims, and have killed
anf robbed many others.) -, ": ; t
Tho American anthoritiea ia Paso,
yesterday,, indicted J. D. White, a cus
toms inspector for the United. States
government, on a charge of hi. ring niur.
derevL Frf ncisco Peres, a Mexican pris
oner, ' at ' .the little border "' town ' of
Ysleta Iait Friday.: , . ;. . ,;t .
VILLA ; MAY BE SURROUNDED
CHIHUAHUA i CITY, Mexico, .Jan
uary 'Si.-nGeneral Villa ia' reported to
have beea' driven from the . Picachs
hills aad to be surrounded py. Car
ranza soldier near 1 Vallc, .
MISSING' SUBMARINE "
SIGHTED OFF FLORIDA
fAinritM tr hj Tdrl WlrsWtt.l
WA8HINQTON, February l.-rDo-spatche
to the navy department last
night, from tho steamer D. A. Canfleld,
reported that that vessel bad. sighted
a craft believed to be the submarine
K-J, about twelve miles Borth of Jupi
ter' Inlet Lightship, off the Florida
coast; Monday morning.' Naval officers
here say that the position Indicated by
tho despatches from the Canfleld, put
the K-o just ' Where she might be ex
pected to .bo at that time, had she con
tinued her journey south, after parting
company iith her sister submarines,
th K-I,.K aad .KA the rest of tho
flotilla. ' '.'. .' ' i "' ; . '
-.. . 'VJ .i I-- - .
FLEET OF ZEPPELINS . ' ' :.
RAID ENGLISH TOWNS
f Amrtt. by r-4rl Wlrslsss.) '
LONDON, February 1. The war of
fice last night officially announced that
a fleet of "six or seven Zeppelins drop
ped bombs' Oa cities aud town in the
eastern, the northeastern and the mid-
. laud counties of England. " The state
ment declares that no damage was done
by the invader. .
AVIATOR FLIEs'lN HONOR
OF-DEAD BIRDMAN, AGITA
(Spsoial TJblfrJS Its Mippn JIM.)
TOKIO, January 81. Aviator Niles
made an exhibition, flight at Yokohama
today in honor of the late. Aviator
Ogita, who was killed in an attempt to
make a flight from; Osaka to Tokio.
BILL SEEKS PURCHASE
Measure ; To Buy Territory .' is
Xt Introduced In Hojjse 'J
Jt;.'Asoiistad Frees by T4m Wireless.)
; WA8UlNQTOjrr February 1. Repro
sentatlvf Britten of Illinois, yesterday
introduced a resolution In the hooHO
authorising-tha President t.epen e
gotiations with Mexico for tho pUr-
I- .i i : . i . . -. . . . . . ... W ' j
ca or -iower uaiiiora.a :
that each rur,h.se would be mutual
-
It would-give the United Sutes a
valuable territory and supply the mill
lone ? which Mexico Will need . for'' her
Owe rehabilitation after peace is' Anal
ly testored, . !. , v j i- . f ,-:
K .J
MIL! I AHT ' fri SUNhKs
t t :.;iS KILLED BY GUARD
(AssocUte4 tress by rsdsrsl Wlrelse.) ,
' 8AN FBAXCieCQ, February; 1
pvt. J. H. Walker, a military prisoner
at Fort Bcott, waa shot and- killed by
the guard when he attempted, tp escape
last night. .' Walker, who was mem
ber ot the' Twenty-ninth company of
Coast' Artillery,' broke rank .- as the
prisoner wore.' being marched ' to. up
per from tho prison quarter, and Ignor
ing . the command of the, guard-who
ordered, him toV-halt, was oa the .point
pi making fcood hi escape when a bul
let Struck hlm'(-killing him instatlyn .
MAN COMMITS SUICIDE . -
. '. - AT PRESIDENT'S HOTEL
' l'" . . "
(Associated rreao r rsanal Wireless.)
CHICAGO," Febraary 1 Hardly' an
hour after President Wilson, passed
under tho heavy glass portal la, front
of bis' hotel, E. F. Johnson, a patron
of the. hotel,' leaped from a window of
his room on the. tenth floor, crashed
through the glass, shattering the portal,'
and plunged dead to the sidewalk bo
low. ,- president '.Wilson's' apartments,
which are on the third floor, aro not ia
sight of the' front of the hotel. ' . ,
POSTOFFICE DEPARTMENTS
- V APPROPRIATION FAVORED
., (AjMMUted rrses by FsOsrsl Wlrsies.)
WASHINGTON, February 1..-. Th
fiostoffice appropriation measure carry.
Dg $320,50uj7B, was reported favorably
by tho committee in the house of rep
resentatives yesterday.' This is aa is
crease of more thaa seven million dol-
Jar over the amount4a the bill of .last
year, ai.d four million dollars more
than tho departmenf asked. k'V'.V'''-
GRANDSON OF TENNYSON?
. PASSES OUT" IN LONOOI
fassoeUted rrsst by' rSsral Wlrelsss.)
LONDON, February. L Hoa. Lionel
Hullau TeunysonJ enlj. grandson of the
famous poet , died last night.-'. Tenny.
son was a lieutenant-it the Koyal navy,,
and bad served with, distinction since
the -war broke out. .' Lieutenant TeooyJ
son was born November 7, 1889, ;and
was the onlv son and. heir of , the. sec
ond Baron Tennyson, j - P ?: -, .f '
BRITISH LOSSES IN JANUARY
iknaC, Trtu r rsdsrsl Wlrslsss.) '
imnov. ii i..i,trai- t .'viriti.h
casualties for the month of . Jsnuarr.
made public today, shew that during
the month 1079 offieera and 19,624 men
were listed as killed, wounded or. Siiss-
iogr
Have Anglo-Indian Forcea Sur
'Relief Expeditions Are Fiehtintf.
t-:'.- ,.-
London Receives Reports of Suc-
;?;-cess In Transcaucasus
n'?Hi;;V,',:'V.:;:
t. (Associated rrses ty rssaral WlreisM.'-
LONDON, February 1 The Russiaas
are agaia forcing the 'steady1, retire
ment of the foes in-the Traascauchsus
regioo aeooiHliog to despatehoa recciv,
cd hero last night: . V V,
Tese port announced tbar,'after
heaAy kflghting "n thoi WmttjT'west
, taa iaso.. bf Van tho . Tnrk
ish forces Olierating her wero Jout-
l anil compelled to flee to -th .tot
tiOcatkm around tbo city of Erxcrum
for. protectioa during the flight, of
the Turk tb Russiaas are said to
have . taken many prisoners -and lurae
quantltica of munition of war. mueh
t&e-,'iurks from Xiermaay and Austria.
: Other advices' . from ;.Ptroirrad s an
nouneo that ' the (fighting ia Eastern
Oalicia has beea -.resumed, and that tho
Russia J oa .th 8trlpa river, front have
rannuiUatet a ioreo of Austrian,
RUSSIAN ADVANCE INTO .
-MESOPOTAMIA CONTINUES
(Asseeiated rres iky rsdsrsl Wlxetoss.)
, PARIS, January ..31. Coatinued
successes are -meeting the new Rus
sian drive out of the Trans-Caueasu'
region Into - Mesopotamia, t according
to ocpaine today irom Athens.' Tb
Slav are aaid to have inflicted, a fresh
defeat .on ., the Turkish " army on the
Caucasus border, and to have advanced
o far that they have aurrounded and
are b'ombarding Erxerum.. The Turkish
oflieisls and .the bauhc-s,- the ' latter
carrying their funds, mad their escape
from Erxerom at the .last jnioute,
"f.',- ' '' ' I :;
ITALY LANDS ANOTHER
EXPEDITION IN ALBANIA
AMedted rrss by rederal Wlrslsss.)
. BERLIN, January 31r-The Ovarseaf
News Agency .says today that. Italy baa
landed an additional division of troop
at 'Avians, Albania:' with tbo evident
intention of eentestlug vigorously tho
Teuton aampaiga la: the western Bal
kans..', The Albanian and the Italian
aro reported to aavo effected a juncturt
of troops and to have checked tbo Aua
triaa force 'Which were- operating- in
Montenegro ami h nearby .mountain
PARTY AFFILIATIONS V
- TO SHOW, ON REGISTER
(Assoslsted rres by rsdsrsl Wlrslsss.).
8AN FRANCI8CO Feljrcary l.-Tb
tat supreme court yesterday issued a
mandate forbidding the county clerk
to refuse to record tbo political affilla
tion of would-be voters. A a result of
this decision, aegistratlona containing.
the barne of the parties to which tho
votOr'belong Will be permitted for two
montns, jor until the uw passed last
year pocomea eueeuve. , ' - '
'-.- " .i. ,: ', . -..'v
HORSE BOUGHT FOR RULER ,
' OF JAPAN LEAVES COAST
- (IssclU OsMscraiia to Hawaii Salape.)
SAN FRANCISCO,' Janaary 81, TUs
Rorao which the .Japanese people bare
purchased for Emperor Yoshihito la
honor -of the coronation will leave this
city , by the Bbinyo Mara oa. February
11. The price paid for tbo horse U
aaid to have beea 110,000. .- .
OSLEMS ARE ROUTED
PRE
SIMITEMPEIIS
GOTHAM' WARN2I3 ,
ftffiaifljANGEM
'."' V '.' .' -. I...--,-... . . vii..- ?. - ,' -'.-U'-.t--i,l ;u.
:-';.'.' ' ;:'.Vl":' . ' ' ' ' ' "
'"' ' ' ' :: ',..-. .M .' '. ' ' I ,. ,-' . '' ,' , - ,-' . . ... ... .,
Modifying New i York
.Tells People; of Milwaukee and Chicago.
Navy Is Ready For
Cai;se For Apprehension ofNationalCalamity
QWEIEROra
(Associated Prcs By
CHICAGO, .February 1. The n)otives. which prompt the United ."; ;
r , States ti rernain a 'neutral in the present war are not tho; sup- ' ' ' ' '
posed by the belligerents, , who have
grasp ; the ideals which actuate-America and who cannot feel the ',
erce'of the underlying principles which guide the course of the , .
nation,'1 . 1'' ': f ':.' :-. '' ' ' '
t So said President Wilson,' in his address in the Aiiditbrium las
high tj "before an imreijse gathering of residents," whd applauded ' ' 1
many of the President's statements.; Both here and in Milwaukee, -
wnere ne aadressea a great gathering yesterday afternoon, ; the . ' ,'
President deriarjtd. Irm hi9aianning prophecies of his Ne'.vYork'. "'
and Pittsburgh addresses,' wVien, he said that the country was in ;,
urgent need of men, ships and armament, -because he was unable
to' predict that Arncrica's tbmorrowr would be as bright as today' ' (
and beca'uAe, .sou tj. tW'tateiras' the champion of freedom, :
be ' forced into a - war; the nation would Ifind itself powerfesV fbf , .
Nvy Js; Well Prepared For Wat
r.C.ltn American navy," he, said last night is today well prepared ' ;
io perform its duly-' In. any w'ar.i andliahhouelt the iuvv is snalrr '
Admiral Fletcher .aiva ' that", ithe pre'sent fleet is hr best naval or-
g'anizatioV'that "the UnItc t States . bar ever had , ip "alT.lU'liuitory.rT.' V
The,-army; the, Presidcut. described as riot even big enough to v'
pro'perly. fulfill its pea'cii 'duties wbihs! for a war it is wholly inhdo-
Following his Tsta.temcnt that the attitude of the United States
is' being misjudged, 1nhaf its stahd for Ideals and principles is be- , ,
' ; : . a, t . i ? I '.L1 a ' - '.' - ..
ing misconstruea. into nciptessnesB,,
. rThe present , war. thft i devastating Euroje was.brought about ,
because the rulers Of the natioijs engaged'wtshed for war In Amer- - :'u ,
ica there is no ruler who can plunge this nation' into conflict. . I am .
glad there is no American able to authorize war without the peoples' v' W
consent.". ': .lt -','.',':! . 'VX' ffV-' if v :'',: u-.'.:'. '."." . ;,c ''"
No Panic In Admmlstration-'r V - ';;':vV' yt.; r:':tfr;.
Cln his Milwaukee Wdress, the President .'declare'd jihat the pres-,5 ;'
ent demand of the administration is not due to any panic nor to any '
idea that the nation is, to be plunged unready into war. ) V,
-."The original plans for the increase in ,the navy havV;tibt been f
changed," he sud., , '''These ; plns atfr; being carried, out.wihh the ? .
difference that i.tbeprogtoii .mappedout : lo ; extend, over:the next V
eight or te.i years! ; to Jbej'carried 6utarid completed lyhhirt'the ..;
next five years. 'There is no question of panic and no alteration i -.
the naval building, program, ' V"e are today slowly building up a ; f
navyrthat in quality will be second to no navy in the world." 1 r -." v;
In references to the coast defense fortifications, the President
tpld his Milwaukee audience that these posts were modern in their i
equipment and wholly efficient, although the number is insufficient V
for the protection of aH,vUal points. , ; r; .;''',V.,;-A:f 'f -
Division Among Citiiens Unlikely : ;':'.''.''.'';r''', ',',''i ''';'
The President's Mitwankee audience was estimated to "number; -nine
thousand. -'ire' rhade. no; specific reference to the" many of for-f ' 4
eign bjrth in the city and state, but expressed the belief- that the .'
danger of a serious.' division arqong the citizens of the nation had - '
passed.' ; . .'"K,V':',''?":-v'''-; ' ". v ''-y't'p-'iP'':ivl-
"When the world IV afire the sparks 'fly. '.everywhere, he' de f
clared, and added that at . the, outset of the war it looked as if do- .
mestic division of sentiment might lead to errors in judge'rnctit, but ff
he betieves that this 'danger has passed.:' ' .''. ..'
Puring his trip through Wisconsin, en route to Milwaukee, the
t ! A a. 1 1 1 ' ' . . I I. ,.i' ' -. . .. '''
t rcsiacni aurcsscu a numuu vi
a speech from the car platform. '
!us private car, many thovts&nds gathering along tbe line to hear him. .'.-vi.'i.
Greal iprowds Greet President ' '' '.;,' V.; ;.
Huge crowds, including. delegations of School children, massed in .
the towns to greet tne, President, " At Kenosha 10,000 toeople beard
Among the things which, the, President has said in these speeches , ,"
ia that it is untruf that: the manufacture of munitions' are behind
the new: American movement for preparedness.,Vf , -;'.' ''''; .x
Missouri senator flails roosevelt
- WASHINGTON,, February 1. Senator Reed of Missouri yester
day' bitterly assailed former President Roosevelt for his address
before the Brooklyn institute of arts and sciences Sunday night, de
claring that the colonel was playing "politics" when he attacked.the
foreign policies of President ,WiIson. Mr. Reed went oh to praise
the policy of President Wilson in the difficulties that have sunound-,
cd the administration, and said that the President's conduct irrcigd
affairs since the outbreak of the war in F.urope, merited unsti:.Uid
commendation. - v ' : ' : .'
Speech; Mr. Wilson
War But There Is No
r K f as . ,'
I.
1 '
Federal Wireless.)
Chow n themselves unable to ' -
:;7!,V;; : j'!'y' t'r '.' "''
ine t 'reiaent saia :
gatnenngs irom .tne rear end ot
);
if.
