Ft an dolp h One
Will Put You in Quick Touch
With The T-D Wont Ad Man
vommik 00
m m hi;it :ti
Dr. Brady's Talf^s
Don't Miss 7 hem?Something
Interesting Ecery Day
TWELVE PAGES.
plhVr",:u ?CLOUDY
PRICE, 2 CENTS
BROWNING VICE i
BILL REPORTEB
Werner Says Conditions Have
Improved Since Segregated Dis
trict Was Abolished.
HEARING ON PROHIBITION
Joint Session Set for To-Morrow.
Sharp Difference Over Elec
tion of Commissioner.
Without an opposing voice. the House
Committor on .Moral and Social Wel
fare voted ycstur'liiy afternoon to re
port favorably the antivice bill intro
duce'! In the I louse by Delegate llrown
Ing and in the Senate by Senator
Saunders. Next to the Mapp prohibi
tion bill, this measure is regarded as
the most stringent and far-reaching
on the morn! reform program,
Tn behnlf ?>f tli?? t? 111 appeared former!
Governor William Hodges Matin and
Secretary T J. Mastin, of the State
Hon r>l ?? r charities ami Corrections.
Chief of Police l/juis Werner, of Rich
mond. sul>mit*< <1 his views on local >?<>n
ditions as they have beep affected by
th< abolition of the segregated district.
wi:iim:h says ? ommtions
II Kit K HAVE improved
According to Chief Werner's testi
mony before the committee, the aboil
tion of the segregated district in Rich
moit'l. by order of Mayor Atnslie. has
mfti'Mialiy improved conditions Where,
as the police had under it\e.lla nee
forinri l\ 1 inmate- -?{ pro*- t '.ed re
sorts, he said, otilv almu' !ift\ women
of tills class are now known to the
authorities, and these, as far as the
police are aware, are conducting them
selves In such a manner that they can
not he disturbed.
Asked i,v tl.e committee to what ex
tent it i* true that the abolition ">f
secr-uat?d districts i followed by a
Kcatterint! of 'heir denizens !ti re t??? i -
able residential sections. Chief Werner
replied 'hat this conur-peii' v ade
(juatelj met by th?- residents thent
sel ve>-, who ate i|iil >: to rep< rr t r. t'ie
police th< preseren anions ii.eni of
persons of ati undesirable charaetcr.
jiopemei.i. mas vriit
t N IIKSIIi \ lll.i: Ki.KMI AT
Chief Wernot r? minded the commit
tee. however, t hat the problem pre
cipitated by th? abolition of the segre
gated district in Richmond was partial
ly solved by the tnagic growth over
night of the near-by city of Hopewell,
which attracted many of the women set
adrift by the revolution in Richmond.
Former Governor Mann told of the
tsuccessful application of the law in
oth|EJF,;iita-teJx, notably in Iow a. The hill
was indorsed unreservedly by Dr. Mas
tin. The committee voted without de
bate to report it with the recommenda
tion that it pass. A few inconsequen
tial amendments were incorporated
p.y the name unanimous vote the com
mittee reported Delegate Moss's bill
providing for the appointment of a
policewoman in every < ity of the Com
monwealth credited Willi a population
of between 15,000 and 60.000 by the
last Federal census. In cities having
a population of r.a.ooo or more, the bill
provides, two policewomen shall be ap
pointed.
The committee voted also to report
favorably Senate bill No. 41', which pro
hibits the sale or giving away of cider
or any other drink containing more
than on* -half per cent of alcohol with
in the corporate limits of the town of
Columbia, or at any point within two
miles: of that town.
SENATE COMMITTEE I1EPOH'I>
J5TEPIIE N SO V \ VTUiA Mlll.lVfi 1111.1,
With the House committee sat the
Senate Committee on Moral and Social
Welfare. The Senate committee voted
unanimously to report the Stephenson
ant (gambling bill, which has already
been passed by the House. The mect-j
ing was held in the chamber of the
State Corporation Commission,
i Both committees will sit in joint
session at 1 o'clock to-morrow after
, noon in the hall of the Hon so of Dele
gates to hear argument for and against
the Mapp prohibition bill. The hear
ing on thl* measure promises- to be the
most animated of the present session,
and will attract the leaders of the sev
eral factions that are taking a contro
versial interest in the proposed legisla
tion. .
The imminent entrance of the "omni
bus" prohibition bill as an item on the
legislative calendar has brought a
lively discussion of its salient pro
visions?chief among them the section
creating a commissioner of moral wel
r fare vested with power to appoint a
number of deputy commissioners !o
nssist him in enforcing the prohibition
laws.
SUA HI* DIKKUHKXCKS
ha vio developed
On the des?n?billtv of creating a
separate police division for the enforce
ment of these laws, there has developed
sharp difference of opinion. In a
Legislature confessedly "dry" by an
overwhelming majority, the. commls
sioership feature of the proposed law
has uncovered m?ny opponents, and |
the possibility that there will he a j
bittel tight against the creation of this
ofllce has grown to a healthy proba
bility.
Legislative gossip has proceeded to
| the extent of conjectures as to the Gov
ernor's altitude towards tho bill should
it come to him with the commlssloner
shlp feature retained. The Governor's
recommendation that the executive
power be enlarged and strengthened, In
order that a proper enforcement of the
prohibition laws may be secured, is
takev by many to mean thnt he will
oppose the creation of an ofllce dedi
cated to a task which the Constitution
assigns to Ills ofllcc.
WRST VIRGINIA COMISSIO XER
IS (JOVKn.VOIt'S APPOINTEE
Those who take this view bellove that
the creation of tho ofllce of commls
'?fllpner of moral wolfare and the appro
" ? (Contlnuod on Third Page.)
: >1;
His Actions Sustained
1)11. (iKOMfil-: H. I)I?.\Y.
DR. DENNYGOMPLETELTI
. EXONERATED BY BOARD
Course Toward Professor T.osey Sus
tained in Kvcry Way li.v Ala
bama I'liivorsity Trustees.
i'l'lil.K' III: A KING IS II KM)
Arcusliifi Kducator, After .Making
< barges Auainst Former Virgin
ian in Highly Dramatic Speech, Is
A-ke<l for Immedinte Ke^i'^nation.
\S'po-in 1 to Th?* Times-Disputch.I ;
lilUMl.vni AM. A I .A.. January 31 ?:
Dr. George II. Iten ny. president of the;
L'nJv?-r.-:t ? of .M.l.ama. :iri?I former >
presi '.?? r t of \%"n ',:i j\-ir i nil I.ee I"??i- '
\Tt?liy, m Virginia, hnv !.??'ri sustained j
in hi.*-- action in not r?comm?iifltnc Dr. ;
1*. I> I<osey for re-elect ion to the
faculty of tf!?- Cnivcrsitj of A laban.a. j
and has l>er-n fxonfratcl of the rharces '
broURht aR.iin.st him by I ?r. I.oscv. !
This wan Ui's sense of the mftini; of
the truste.-ss, who held a session at the !
tmlversity to-day. Dr l.?s?ev was ask?*d ,
for liis resignation. effective instanter. j
Out coin <? of th<r hearing was pre-;
dieted this morning, when all the I
trustees, including Governor Charles!
Henderson, who presided o\er the meet- i
Ing. had arrived (r Tuscaloosa, the ser.t i
o? the university.
The meeting bpe.in at !> o'clock, and !
Dr. Losey was asked to state his !
charges to the hoard, which he did in
a highly dramatic manner. I)r. I?osev
for the past nine yearn has been pro
fessor of Knglish and public speaking
at the university, and he brought all
his theories into play in his speech.
He alternately ridiculed Dr Denny and ?
implored sympathy for himself. He
would then turn loose on the prosident j
the most bit nip Invectives ever heard !
in a public speech in Alabama. He j
characterized Dr. Denny's charges ;
against him as "serpent's slime." no j
said: "1 desire to disclaim all respon- !
slbility for this unhappy hour, and to '
place it where it belongs, upon the !
executive head of this institution, and j
upon the man who with malice in his ;
heart so diabolical that he prefers even
the wreck of this institution rather [
than that one whom he hates should!
escape his vengeance. He is impelled j
by cowardice, falsehood and deceit in i
every blundering step of his course."
HIS lIAHAXfit'K l.ASTS FOR
MOHK THAN* IlOt It .
His harangue lasted for more than
an hour, during the course of which he
lauKned and cried, pleaded and de
manded, gave vent to Iliphts of flowery
oratory and poured forth anathema af
ter anathema upon the. head of Dr.
Denny.
The upshot of the whole business
was that Dr. Dosey declared that Dr.
Denny had defaced the report card of a
student. He said that the president
had given the student a higher grade
than his work warranted, in order that
he might Influence additional enroll
ment at the university.
Dr. Losey was accompanied nt the
meeting by his wife, who is dean of
women at the university. Dr. Denny
was present also, and through the
whole meeting preserved a dignifled
silence, answering placidly any and all
questions put to him by Dr. Losey and ,
members of the hoard.
The affair has created a vibrant sen
sation all over Alabama. Tuscaloosa
to-day was crowded with interested |
persons front all parts of the State, j
The meeting was held in the commodi- j
ous Smith Hall, in order that all might
lie accommodated. A public hearing
had been demanded by Dr. Dosey, and
Dr. Denny had offered no objections
to it.
The outcome of the. hearing is no
surprise, for it has been felt all along
that the university president would be
upheld by the trustees, who, together
with practically alt of Alabama, have
the utmost confidence in the integrity
of Dr. Denny.
MEETS PECULIAR DEATH
Cnvnlry Sergeant Ilrenmrs Kntiingled to
Hope and Is Stunned by Full
or Strangled.
CHATTANOOGA, TI3N.V., January 31.
?Sergeant. Hugo Petry, of tin- Klev
enth United States Cavalry, whoso body,
entwined in a rope, was found In the
basement of Troop 1% building at Fort
Oglethorpo on Sunday, came to his
death accidentally, a board of inquiry
decided to-day. Petry had been exer
cising with a punching bag In the base
ment alone on Saturday night. Officers
advanced the theory that when ho
finished ho turned out the lights and
thep became entangled in a ropo and
cither was stunned by a fall as a re
sult or could not extricate himself and
strangled.
RIGHT TO VOTE
Advocates of Suffrage Appear
Before Committees of Gen
eral Assembly.
LARGE AUDIENCE APPLAUDS
Many Speakers Advocate Amend
ment to Constitution?One
Opponent Voices Views.
^
Armiir?g that to extend to women i
the privilege of 11?o ballot would he'
only to sustain a fundamental principle
of a true democracy, and charging
thai to withhold the right of suffrage'
from one-half the body politic and at
the same time require that half of the
State's citizenry to contribute its share
toward the maintenance of the gov
rrmenl is nothing short of piracy,
members of the IC'iual Suffrage League
<>f Virginia yesterday afternoon, in the
hall of the House of Delegates. pre-'
sentcd to the Joint Committee on Pi-fvl-,
b-sjes and Elections their arguments in
favor of the proposed constitutional
amendment extending the right of suf
frage to women.
Iri the f;ir?. of overwhelming opposi
tion and acting purely on her own
initiative, one lone woman, rising, she
s;iid, to make a feeble effort to ward,
"ff an impending evil, dared flout the
?tiilitant banner of equal suffrage.
Though unauthorized?even discour
aged--by the Virginia Association <~>p
postd to Woman Suffrage, of which
she is a member, Mrs. F red Jones?
that was the name of the one insur
gent-said she spoke for the majority
of Virginia women. The association
had decided to lake no part in yester
day's meeting.
MltlllJ WOMI'A \\ ?11 I.I) MIT
in-; i.<?\ \i. to ntoiiiiMTinv
Mrs. Jones gave biblical authority
for lH-r attitude, reminding her audi
ence that Christ cbosc, not one woman
\n entry the Cos pel to tiie uttermost
pari* of the earth, but selected men
to inaugurate the new era of Christi
anity. A side from h?. r dread to break
that precedent. Mis. Jones said she was
afraid woman would not prove too loyal
to the prohibition cause, citing th?? ex
amples of women who preside at the
punch bowl on tlie occasion of "pink
tea" parties and delegate their de
butante daughters to pass around the
cup to thirsty guests.
Already, Mrs. Jones said, she has suf
fered from the discourtesy with which
men are Inclined to treut women who
are avowed exponents of equal suf
frage. "Why," she said, "only the
other day l was so unfortunate as to
board a crowded Southside car. and
none of the men would offer me a
seat because they thought 1 was a
'suffragette.* i am sorry i looked the
part."
i:\TIII MASTIC '..II,I.I'll V
AI'Pl.A I'DS SlKI'llAtiK ADVOCATUS
It was. however, a distinctly prosuf
frage crowd. The militant yellow ban
Tier, emblematic of "equal rights to
all and special privileges to none."
waved triumphantly?for the time, at
least. A packed gallery, not a whit
the less enthusiastic because it was
not actively engaged in the discussion,
looked down with approval?sometimes
vociferous in character?on the leaders
of the cause as they told, in forceful
language, how woman was being de
prived of her just rights and how the
men of Virginia, in placing in her
hands the ballot, would take the great
est forward step in many generations.
Mrs. H. B. Valentine, president of the
ICqual Suffrage League of Virginia, was
in command of the suffrage forces.
The committee took no action on the
resolution.
Leading off for the proponents of
the. resolution, Mrs. Dexter Otey, of
Lynchburg, declared the right of
women to exercise the ballot to be a
fundamental principle of democracy.
"Thomas Jefferson," she said, "laid it
down as ail incontrovertible fact that
a government derives its just rights
from the consent of the governed.
Yet you men of Virginia, who proclaim j
your democracy from the housetops,
withhold political freedom from one-j
half of the State's citizenry, demanding.]
at the same time, that that half shall j
(Continued i>n Fifth I'age..)
ELOQUENT PLEA
1 AGAINST SUFFRAGE
Miss Lucy Jean Pricc Opposes
Granting of Votes to
Women.
HAVE DESTINY OF THEIR OWN
Says Doubling of Electorate
Does Not Mean Purifica
tion of Politics.
Arguing that. thoucrh their infer? s
nrc identical. the* physical work ami
social effort of the two f-? ? xec are dif
ferent, necessitatiim a <1 i vision of
labor. and that a doubling of t!:? ? < !.?? -
to rate would not necessaril;- moan a
purification of politics. Miss Lucy i?
I'ri? e. field secrctarv of the ?>liio Asso
ciation Oppo.?P(i to Woman SuffrnRc.
made ( loqucnt plea before a !:ir? au
dience in the Jefferson Hotel audi
torium last night that stjft"r;?tr?- be not
triven to women, that they be U ft to
work out the destiny for which nature
ha? markp'l them, nn'l that it bo left
to them to exercise outside of the
ballot box the influence which, in thr.
manner of things, lias always been
theirs.
J She insisted that a cumulative vote
would not necessarily improve political
or civic conditions. saying that the
, history of legislation has si ??wn that
? woman suffrage has not generally
tended towards betterment, and >iie
pointed out that the sex difference must
necessarily mean a ?livision in labor
.-he is not of the school which bases
(its argument airainst woman suffrage
' solely niion the need to keep the pot
boilintr ami the cradle rockin ?. Kather.
' she is of the school whic h believes that
jnature lias appointed women for the
: performance of certain things which
' man cannot ?lo, and that she should
' not be called upon to do what it is
specifically needed of man to perform.
.The s> x relation demands a division of
I r<*spotsibility and commands an iden
tit> of interests, which the vote can
neither improve nor take away from
At IMTnitll >1 I* KM.MOD
WITH AI'I'LAl DIVti THItO.NC
The auditorium was lilted with an
immense crowd. Many could not ob
tain seats, ami policemen were detailed
? to keep the aisles dear, so that those
I who. failing sitting room, should not
j block the way. It was tin enthusiastic
and sympathetic audience, and several
| who questioned the speaker after her
address were quieted by a bit of kindly
. raillery or a rejoinder which took the
1 wind out of their sails, metaphorically
j speaking, and effectively silenced them.
Though It has nothing: to do with
j the force of her expression and the
j logic of her argument, it should be
1 mentioned, en passant, that Miss Price
j is petite and pretty, and that she was
! unconscious of her personal charm. It
1 may be that her brunette beauty had
! its effect on some, but it is equally
t:uc that on her own sex only her
. words prevailed.
At the dose of her address Delegate
| S. H. Love, of Lunenburg County,
j moved that she be .iven a rising vote
? of thanks, and the house rose en
' masse. Afterwards she held a levee
from the platform, shaking hands with
'admiring sympathizers, like IJryan at
, a Chautauqua. Some one tlung her a
bouquet, and then she was lifted down
to the pit, where she disappeared be
hind a cloud of waving arms and amid
a half-subdued roar of applauding
voices. If there were any who was j
against her, lie was lost. To the victor i
' belongs the spoils, and Miss I'rice car- j
' ried away with her the plaudits of a j
j crowd and the silent homage of those ]
j who came expecting to disagree.
! WO.M IZ\ HA VI-: DONK NOTHlNi;
TO I.MI'HOVK POLITICS
i "Women," said Miss Trice, after she
j had gotten into full sway, "have done
1 nothing to improve politics, not that
I are not as honest, or even more honest,
I than men, but because they have not
1 greater wisdom. l>r. Anna Howard
Shaw, while president of the National
j Association for Woman Suffrage, said j
tthat, whether all women voted or if.
'no woman cast a vole, she would he-,
| lievc in woman suffrage. If her ideal
j in favor of woman suffrage is so great!
i as not to consider possible consequences, j
jit is very dangerous to ask the vote ?
for woman on ilie grounds tiiat you j
irlon't care what becomes of the home, j
? Continued on Fifth Page.>
MISSING K-BOAT
IS BELIEVED SAFE
Tank Steamer Reports Sighting
Submarine Off Flor
ida Coast.
FEARS NOT ALL RELIEVED
Efforts bv Naval Vessels and by
Radio to Locate Submersi
ble Prove Futile.
S. C. January '<1 -f
tt'ith the statement hero tn-nlsht tiy
Captain f:. C P.ryan. ??ommatnlati' of
the Charleston Navy-Yard. that the
tank steamer C. A. Canfleld reported
having sighted off the Florida ronsi
what appeared to be the K-5. belief
! was expressed that the submersible was
safe, and proceeding on her course to
Key West. Captain Ttrvan's statement
. here was that the Canfleld having re
i
?ported sighting a submarine. and as
the K-5 \v;im the only submarine knmvn
to be in tliD<5.- waters, he IVll satisfied
that lite boat which the Canfield sighted
<onid be no other than the K-.Y
The boat had been missinu since
; early Sunday innrniim, and all efforts
by radio apparatus and by naval ves- :
sels seeking her had proved futile. To
night. before announcement of the Can- ,
field report, fears had been expressed j
? that the boat had suffered nn accident
'?i some kind If was pointed out,
however, that if the K-5, after losing
her tender and tli?? other three K boats
, Sunday. had proceeded toward Key
West, she would be somewhere near
Jupiter Inlet. Via., to-night. It was
| near that plu'*c at 5:30 I'. M. that the
Canfield reported that she saw what
; the thought to be the K -5. The Can
j field's report contained no details, and
! did !:<>t state what steps, if any. she
! took to make known the positive iden
, t it y of t he subma rine.
?lupiter Inlet lies some fifty miles
south of Palm Ueach. I*la . in the. route I
j >>f the K-5 from New York to Kev
j West.
I Wilt 111.1JSS <AI,1,S SUNT PI T
hi'uain r\.t\s\vi:iti;i)
j Wireless calls sent out from shore i
| stations and from naval vessels search- ?
ing for the submersible were tin-1
answered. There was an unusually j
large number of merchant steamers]
passing up and down the South At- |
j lantic coast Sunday about the time the
i K-5 last was sighted, but they saw
I nothing of the missing submarine,
i The Tallahassee and the K-l, K-2 and.
I K-fi, from which flotilla the K-5 wi3T<
! inexplicably lost, remained here. Lieu
tenant-Commander Clark II. Woodward,
| of the Tallahassee, expressed the view
j late to-day that the K-5 might be con
J tinuing on her voyage south, realizing
j she was lost from the other boats and
i hoping to catch them. .Marine tnen
j said, however, they thought that, after
J realizing he had been missing from the
? flotilla for nearly forty-eight hours,
the commander of the K-5 would have
sought some harbor to report his
whereabouts, particularly if he found
his wireless not working.
The K-5 dropped out of sight during
a heavy fog which existed along this
part of the coast yesterday and last
? night, but cleared tip to a certain ex- ,
j tent to-day. At 110 time, however, was ?
j the sea reported to have been rough,
and. as far as could be learned, the
other three K boats suffered no incon- I
venienci'fi from their trip They \
anchored near here yesterday soon af- j
ter missing the submarine.
DISPATCH KIIOM C H A It I? 1CSTO N
TO NAVY DKI'AHTMKXT
j WASHINGTON", January 31.?A Navy!
Department dispatch from Charleston
I to-nlglit said that a steamer had rc
| ported sighting what appeared to he
the missing submarine K-5 off the
Florida coast. Tho department's dis
patch follows:
"The following message has been re
celved from Jupiter Inlet, Florida:
?"Steamer D. A. Canfield reports
what appeared to be the submarine
k-fi at 5:30 I*. M? January 31, twelve I
miles north of Jupiter, bound south. !
(Signed) "'CAPTAIN FENNV" '
Department officials said that if tliej
K-f> was proceeding on her natural
course for Key West her position at ;
?>:30 would have been virtually that j
reported by Captain Fenn.
The Times-Dispatch
Gained 55,104 Lines of Paid Advertising
in January, 1916, Over the Same Month Last Year
Daily. Sunday. Total.
1910 204.442 Lines 221.242 Lines 425,(584 Lines
1915 183,190 Lines 187,390 Lines 370.580 Lines
Gain 21,252 Lines 33,852 Lines 55.104 Lines
The Biggest January in the History of the Paper
A SOLID SIX MONTHS RECORD
Ending January 31st, 1916
Daily. Sunday. Total.
This Year 1.300,096 Lines 1,291.598 Lines 2,591,094 Lines
Last year 1,170,510 Lines 1,135,694 Lines 2,306,204 Lines
Gain 129,586 Lines 155,904 Lines 285,490 Lines
Total Gain , for Six Months, 285,490 Lines
This gain is largely due to the Advertiser's realization of the value of this news
paper's 90 per cent home'delivered circulation.
Russian Forces Drive
Turks Before Them
AKTKIt having ilri\en ?In* Turks
from a region about forty
miles In length ? " \slatie Turkey
lo the ivr.it ol" I.tike \ mi, mill put
the lit l?i rctrcHl ilitnn Hie MusIi \nl
le?. t lit* it tixtl:i ns Ni'rmincl.v litivr
ceased their operalIons In this par
ticular vicinity for tlie winter.
I urci' numbers nf prisoners hptp
t:ikrii li> the Hussions, Iii aildltlna
In lirin > Ki?i"> machine glllis unit
oilier war inn terla I.
I'll en* has liecn Ittlle lighting ?f
Ki'i'iit moment mi? where I" any "f
I lie iiur I liealerH, except liy artil
lery. lirrmnn positions at Steen
stmclc. to tlie south of Hoje. anil to
the aortli of SI. Mlliiel, have eonn
nailer llie guns of tlie eiilenle allies
i>ii i lie western line, ami roiisIIIcr
alili* ilnninge has lieea ilnlie.
I'riiui aort InveNl of It Inn tn tlie
mlilille Slrlpa tlirre lias lieea i'iiii
.siderahle lioiiilinrilmeitl liy llie t.er
inaii.N nl various Hussion towns anil
positions. IVlrogrnil reports llie
surrounding liy tlie Russians of tin i
\iistrlan detachment in the niiilille |
strljin. anil tlie annihilation of most
of the A list rians, the remaiiiiler be
ing eu|itureil.
ZEPPELINS MID NUMBER
OF COUNTIES III ENGLAND
Several llonibs Dropped, but Up to
Present No Considerable
Damage Hcported.
TOWN'S VISITKI) NOT KKVKALI3D
French Oflieial Press Bureau <.'ives
Out Statement That Little Harm
Was Done by Dirigibles in Paris
tin Sunday Night.
r-ONDUN. January III.?A raid by sin
or seven Zeppelins took place last nicht
over the eastern, northeastern ami mid
land counties of Kaghuul. according tc
an announcement of the War Otlice.
A number of bombs wore dropped, but
up to tbo present no considerable rtatn
age has been reported.
The raid followed closely the at
tacks on Paris by Herman dirigibles.
Tlie British War Ottice. which now
controls the defenses of London against
air attacks, announces that six or seven
aircraft took part in the latest raids,
but the towns or villages visited and
the nature of the damage inflicted have
not been made public.
*. ? ?
vo srcii dkadlv i:Krt:tT
AS OX FIRST VISI'I
PA HIS, January 31.?Several bombs
were dropped by the Zeppelin which
flew over tho outskirts of Paris last
night, but they produced no such deadly
effect as on the occasion of the raid
of Saturday night. The oflieial press
bureau gave out the following state
ment this morning:
"A German dirigible set out in the
direction of Paris, where it arrived
soon after in P. B. It was bombarded
by our special batteries and attacked
by our aeroplanes. Boforo returning
northward it dropped a number ot
bombs, which, according to the news
received so far, 'lid no damage."
Representatives of the Matin who
visited the scene of the raid say that
no damage was done by the bombs.
Three of them fell on a piece of waste
ground and three others in a held. A
police inspector saw those which fell
in tho tleld. They did not sink deep
in the soil. They were covered with
a cottonlike substance, which hurst
into flame. The inspector characterized
them as incendiary bombs.
Little was seen of the Zeppelin, on
account of the weather conditions.
Tho Matin says that It has received
information from the postmaster of one
of the places over which the Zeppelin
passed that a number of bombs were
dropped together. The inference is
drawn that the Germans, seeing them
selves threatened by French aeroplanes,
decided to loose all their bombs at
once.
The censors permitted foreign corre
spondents to telegraph whatever de
tails they could obtain, but tho Paris
morning papers have many blank
spaces.
U. S. SHIPYARDS ADEQUATE
111 Have .No Dlllleulty In Taking- fare
of Administration's Proposed
Navy Increases.
WASHINGTON, January 'At.?Ameri
can shipyards, Hear-Admiral David W.
Taylor, chief of the bureau of construc
tion, told the House Naval Committee
to-day, will have no difllculty in taking
care of tho administration's proposed
navy Increases. Tho admiral said he
would submit a detailed statement
later.
Sixty-eight vessels, the admiral said,
were already buil<lin~ <ji' authorized.
Nine are battleships. Tho navy appro
priation bill, which the committee ia
considering, proposes fifty-six addi
tional ships. ?
TO GUARD RYAN ESTATE
Two Deputy Sheriff*. Willi This as Sole
Duty, Appointed liy Sheritr
Kuril,
[Special to The Times-Dispatch.)
N K W Y O It K, January 31.?Two
ileputy sheriffs, whoso solo duty will
be to guard the country estate, in Rock
land County o? Mrs. Thomas Fortune
Ryan, wife, of the traction magnate,
were appointed to-day by Sheriff Hud
son Hurd, One of the deputies will
guard the estate by day and the other
by night. It is understood thai an
nnusual number of trespassers on thei
grounds of late caused the request for
guards. Mrs. Ryan's estate is at Suf
fern. I
I
iV ?L' ?.
NAVY IS PREPARED
FOR IMMEDIATE
WAR, SAYS WILSON
Organization Better Than
Ever Before, hut force
Is Inadequate,
ARMY NOT LARGE ENOUGH
EVEN FOR PEACE DUTIES
Repeats Warning That No Time
Must Be Lost in Strength
ening Defenses.
AM Kit If'A ritfKLIiY MISJUDGED
: Culled On fop Somp Sort of Protest
at Kvery Tragical Turn
of Kvents.
ruir.xno. January St.?The United
?States hn.? made preparation^ for ini
! mediate war. as far as (In- navy Is con
; cerned. although tlio present naval
j force is inadequate in size. President
: Wilson declared to-nit:lit in an address
( before several thousand persons in the
, Auditorium.
"We mean business," he said, in
speaking of the preparedness plans of
, the administration.
"We have given to the present fleet
of the t'nited States an organization
i such as It never had before, I am tohl
1 by Admiral Fletcher," the President
?said. "And we have made preparation
for immediate war. so far as the navy
, ,'s concerned."
He. salil that the arm v. as constituted
at present, "is not large enough, even
J for tlie ordinary duties of peace."
j The President repeated his warnincs
| that no time must b>> lost in strength
I ening the defenses of the nation. He
; declared the government was doing
j everything it coubl for preparedness.
"When 1 see sonic of my fellow
I citizens spread tinder where sparks
j a re falling. I wonder what their ideal
i of Americanism is." the President said.
"America," the President said, "had
I cruellx misjudged by the nations
j a t war.
"I know that on the other side of
i the water there has linen a treat deal
I of cruel misjudgment with regard to
(the reasons why America has remained
j neutral. Those looking at us from a
distance do nut feel the strong pulses
of Ideals and purposes that are In us.
A .M ionic A MO It 10 It 10 A I) Y TO IMF.
KOIl A/fUO.UtiHT THAN A DOJU.AH
"They do not feel the conviction of
America that our mission is a mission
of peace, and that righteousness can
not lie maintained as a standard in the
midst of arms. They do not realize
that hack of all our energy we are a
body of idealists much more ready to
lay down our lives for a thought than
j for a dollar.
"Tliey suppose, some of them, that
we are holding off because we can
make money while others are dying,
the most cruel misunderstanding that
any nation has ever had to face?so
wrong that it seems almost useless to
try to correct it, because it shows that
the. very fundamentals of our life are
not comprehended or understood."
Rulers, not public opinion, brought
about the present war, Mr. Wilson de
clared.
"I thank God there is no man in the
United States who has the authority to
bring on war without the consent of
the nation." he said.
The task of the United States, he
said, has been to assert lite principles
of law in a world In which the prin
ciples of law have broken down.
"We are not now thinking of in
vasion of the territory of the United
States," tho President declared; "that
is not what is making us think. Wo
are not asking ourselves shall we be
prepared only to defend our own homes
and our own shores.
"Is that all we stand for? To keep
the door closed securely from our
enemies? What about the great prin
ciples set up for liberty of national
government in the whole Western
Hemisphere? We stand pledged to see
that both the continents of America
are left free to be used by their people
as those people choose to use them
under a system of national popular
I sovereignty as absolutely unchal
| tended as our own.
"At this moment the Americas are
| growing together upon that handsome
I privilege of reciprocal respect and de
, fense."
I HOT \ 11.101) PLANS AIIK
(II Tl.1X101) 11V WIl.SO.V
i Detailed plans for strengthening the
' army and navy and the aviation corps
I and for making munitions and anna
I ment )>y the government weic out
lined. The President spoke for nearly
an hour.
The Auditorium was a riot of red,
white and blue, swung In festoon3 from
rails and boxes. Hack of the stage
hung the American coat of arms on a
field of blue.
An hour before the President was
due to speak the four galleries above
the main lloor were white with faces,
and many were turned away.
Mayor Thompson, of Chicago. oc
cupied a seat on the stage near the
President, and Governor Dunne, of
Illinois, was in a box.
! Twelve hundred police held in check
the sidewalk throngs, clearing the
street entirely of traffic between the
hotel and the Auditorium. The rousing
: welcome with which Chicago greeted
his arrival was echoed in the cheers
of the crowds about the building as
the presidential party came In. Mr.
Wilson was introduced by Frank C.
Caldwell, president of the Industrial
Club. The President began to speak
at S: 15 o'clock.
In beginning his speech, the President
referred to the rapid development since
the European war broke out, nAylng
that a year ago it did ssem as if
American rights would be respected
without anxiety, ar.d take it for granted
