..." -1J.4.A 11 llil
' r li' .
rjTwijfay floBjr ami foWfri J
J" nMDCIMJf Mir.
j j ! j j j
tin If I4 Rt9 4 irmit' i
J- 4 4 ! 44 4 ! 4 ! I
v MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY. TUESDAY, FEmVARY J mo. ' "" ONE COPY-ONE CENT. J
t
1N
, :
WELCOME EXCEPTIONS.
Old Kliencicr Iplirlnni Hrnnn's
('ounlrt'rlir how thlnwi roj
Ho says he thinks Iho uorld's all right I
The rheerfullrst man I know.
There's no more hoiicfnl, cheerful man
Than Jeremiah Orcein
He sum this worldV (he best old world
That he 1mm ever ncen.
E Haxklns Is a line old tail,
Of earth he Is the sultt
He says that when tho world (foes bnd
It'i n feller's own dnrncd fault.
TOBACCO MARKET
Sales On MarsTllle Loose Leal Floors
As Reported 11; tho Various
Warehouses,
' ; - Liberty.
rounds sold 226,285
HlgiSprlco $40.00
Low-price $2.50
Average $11.38
m Central.
Pounds sold 117,105
High price $65.00
Low price $3.50
Avcrago $11.10
Special Comer & Griffith, Mason
county, $27.45; J. If. Stewart, $12.50.
niock at Homo and Planters.
Market good.
BANQUEUSUCCESS
Mason County Health League Enter
tains Large dumber of
Friends.
Those who attended the banquet of
tho Mason County Public Health
League at Neptune Hall Monday night
feel more than repaid as the menu
served by the ladles and tho splendid
talks by local and visiting men of
prominence were thoroughly enjoyed
by the large assemblage.
The Endeavorers will glvo an old
fashioned taffy-pulling at the Chris
tian church Thursday evening follow
lug social. Taffy lu cents per plate.
Social from 7 to 8 free. All welcome
HEALTH LEAGUE
Col. L. Jl. Mans, Secretary State De
partment of Health, Delivers
Interesting Address.
At the First Presbyterian church In
this city Monday afternoon soven men
and eighteen women gathered In the
Sunday school room to henr ono of
Kentucky's greatest men.
Miss Yancey In her preliminary ad
dress, made a startling statement In
reference to one of our country school
houses as a breeder of consumption.
Miss Cnsey's report was excellent
nnd will appear later.
Col. L. M. Mails was then Introduced,
He Is n plcnsant speaker and has seen
sorvlec In tho Philippines, Cuba and
Porto Itlco. He gave his experiences
as a health officer In n delightfully
conversational voln.
He said when he went to Manila
the city was Infested with rats. He
secured more than 20,000 rattraps and
put his men to work and in six weeks
they had destroyed more than 800,000
rnts and the city was then free from
the rodents and bubonic plague.
Tho people ran about with smallpox
and he compelled vaccination and
when ho left smallpox was practically
unknown.
xetaolnshrdluctaolnshrdluctaolnuauau
Ho said In the year 1914 one-third of
the deaths In our city waB from con'
sumption. Vet wo did nothing to stay
It. If one-third of our horses, cattle
and hogs were dying from foot and
mouth diseaso wo would move all the
powers that be to eradicate it. One-
sixth of the deaths, or about 4,81)0 peo
ple, are reported dying annually In
Kentucky from the Great White
Plague, yet the present Legislature Is
poverty stricken when It comes to
building a sanltorium for the afflicted
ones. Yet our hogs, horses and cattle
get special attention. Head tho speech
of the Colonel which will appear 'in
full in tomorrow's paper.
MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED.
SCHOOL
NEWS
For all grades of whiskies and
liquors. Our prices are right. Order
today. Poyntz Bros.. Covington, Ky.
Our price this week for butterfat,
31 cents Mnysvllle. Bring it in any
day, any time of the day, and rccolve
your check promptly.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CREAMERY,
Plush coats quoted at special prices Spring number Pictorial Quarterly
in Hunt's nd. 'at DE NUZIE.
1915 OUR BANNER YEAB 1915
Wb wish te thank our mm friends and customers for their literal patraaaee fer this.
our fourth year in business, which has proven to be considerable beyond bbt anticipating, for
which wo are very thankful.
We are new looking forward to a greatly increased business the coming year and wo
nave insiaica m laiesi ana men iiBprorco enwpneni lor naming yor urwre, wncn guar
aatees Ugh grade mill work and satisfaction to all, at the best possible prices.
We are leaders in our line.
CORNER LIMESTONE AND SECOND
THE MASON LUMBER COMPANY
a. a. Mclaughlin.
STREET. PHONE 519.
L. IIE1IAN.
I
ti
HIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1HIIIIIIIIII1IIIII
HOBBIES S
A prominent physician tells us tlint "hobbies" nre healthy
things for lis to have, and we feel that vi must bo blessed with
unusually good health, as we have ALWAYS had n hobby
and it's
HARNESS! 3
3
3
Years ngo, when leather sold for nineteen cents a pound,
our boast was that we made the best harness that could bo
made of good leather, good thread and good workmanship.
Now, when that same kind of leather is selling for forty-nine
and fifty cents a pound, we still maintain that we have the
lust harness that can be made. All you have to do to provo
that wo are telling you facts is to go to the next "sale," nnd
hear Col. Hensley Hawkins say in that musical drawl for which
he is so famous, "This is a set, gentlemen, of Mike Brown's
Harness. What do yon bid?" Then's when you can see tho
farmer "set up and take notice," for he knows thei'e will bo
some bidding on that harness.
This is the time of the year, when Harness is foremost in
every farmer's mind, nnd this is the timo of tho yenr, also,
whenve nre rendy to sell him. All winter long our men have
been making up liariicKs for Spring trade, and now wo are
ready. Of course, it's higher than when our grandfathers
used to buy it, but, considering the price- of leather, it's u
wonder how low in price and high in qunljty tho Square Deal
harness is.
Come in, gentlemen, we are ready to rig up those horses.
MIKE BROWN
I
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAN"
MONTHLY HKPOHT OF MAYSV1LLK
LM'IILIC SCHOOLS.
Yearly enrollment 1,001
Monthly enrollment.... 081
Avcrago (Attendance... 899
Teachers having no tardiness for
tho month: W. T. Borry. H. C.
Barnes and Miss Opal Baugh.
Teacher having no tardiness for tho
year: II. C. Barnes.
Honor Roll.
First Grade Kntherlno Olascock,
Addison Everett, Elizabeth Bollug,
Henry Barkley, Robert Houston, Wnl
tor Scott Worthlngton, Rosa Nichols,
Frances Cnrrlgan, Marlon Harding,
Marlon Flaugher, Mike C. McKcc, Mary
Nichols.
Second Grade Lillian Mnnncrlng,
Joseph Burns, Frances Redden, Eliz
abeth Cady, Elmer Gllp, Kathorlne
RoBcnstcin, William Watklns, Chnrlton
Rogers Key, Henry Kwonlton Key,
Grace Cllne, Elizabeth Knox, Martha
Rodcn, Jcnnio Sidwell, Nellie 'yilson
Earl He8lcr, Mildred Hamm, Dorothy
Simons, Clay Stewart.
Third Grade John T. Luman, Gor
don Chambers, Lindsay Dudley, Dor
othy Ripe, Patsy Downing, Evelyn
Cabllsh, Ethel Haney, Dorothy Cap
linger, Alice Btssett, Josle Jnnvler,
Artlo Paul.
Fourth Grade Blanche Boling, Jcs-
slo Breeze, Frances Maltby, Virgil Da
vis, Cecil Hollnnd, John Pope. Mary
Woodson Taulbco, Joseph. Caproni,
John Burgess, Ruth Kehoc, Victor Cap
roni.
Fifth Grade Dolly Ford, Clifford
Blerley, Eugene Jones, Mlnnlo Miller,
Jones Bradford, Newell Breeze, Jen
nie Blythc.
Sixth Grade Margaret Buckley,
Minnie Groniugcr, Elizabeth Newell,
Phyllis Swisher, Elizabeth Glascock,
Eva Boling, Lldc Chonault, Juanlta
Richardson, Kathcrlne Foreman, Da
vid Wood, William Cochran, Pierce
McLaughlin.' ..
flovCnth'Grade Mildred Proctor,
George SJmons, George Carrigan An
na uivls, Nan Chcnault, James Allen,
Mary Downing.
High School.
Freshman Elizabeth Allen. Hu
bert Brookings, Frank Browning,
Elizabeth Calvert, Carlisle Chcnault,
Jeano Collis, Raymond Dawson, Mal
colm Hicks, Mary Owens Keith, Anne
Maltby, Dorothy Mcrz, Mnrlon Power,
John Walker.
Sophomore Pearce Browning, Ro
land Brlttingham, Maud Ella Bru
baker, Frances Marsh, Edword Wat
ton.
Juniors Alta Adams, Ethel Lynch,
Charles Downing, Edna Stevens.
Seniors Addle Hord Arnold, Lemlel
nrooklngs, Ruth Cooper, Mabel Crow
ell, Carrie Goodwin, Rebecca Hcchln
gcr, James January, Mary P. Maltby
Mary D. Poyntz, Henry Shea. Lucie
Smith, William Soward, Marshall
Wood.
KKV1VAL SERVICES AT FIRST M. E,
CHURCH, SOUTH.
Revival services will begin at the
First M. E. church. South, next Sun
day, February C. Tho pastor, Rev.
w. B. Campbell, will preach each eve
ning, and will have as an assistant, a
song leader and soloist. Rev. W. B.
Corder of Norborne, Mo., who will
hnve full charge of the music and
comes highly recommended, havlne
tiaveled with Evangelists Brldgers
and Tillman. The song service will
begin each evening at 7:15. Mr. Corder
will not arrive beforo tho first of noxt
week, but tho pastor will open the
meeting noxt Sunday, and havo things
well under way when he comes. The
church Is making preparation for a
great meoting. Tho day services will
he announced later.
DANGEROUS.
One of our newspapermen has n
pony which Is valued very highly by
nil tho family. When tho children and
tho mother go to feed the creature he
does not seem to tnko kindly to them,
but when tho lord and master of the
house goes nut to tho stable thcro Is
a snicker of delight from tho pony. It
was some time time beforo tho chil
dren found out tho reason why. Ft
nnlly they discovered that daddy broke
tho cars of corn In two nnd tho pony
thought ho was getting doublo rations.
Somo pony, thnt.
Children's coats half-price. $2, 03
and $4 for coata worth double. Hunt's.
WHAT'S THE NAME, l'LEASEI
Monday afternoon while attempting
to alight from a street car at ono of the
principal business corners of tho city,
a prominent resident had a narrow es
cape from being run down by an auto
mobile, which did not stop, as a city
ordinance decrees, when passing a car
receiving or discharging passengers.
This Is not tho first occurrcnco of UiIb
kind and several reckless drivers dis
regard the ordinance time after time.
Get busy.
FO RMER .MERCHANT VISITS II ERE.
Mr. James F. Walton, formerly es
tablished in business In this city, but
who Is now located at Portsmouth, O.,
was here Monday visiting his many
friends. Mr. Wnlton conducted a large
coffee and splco stores hero and ii
now conducting a similar establish
ment at Portsmouth and Is enjoying a
good trade.
HIIIS WANTED.
The specifications and plans for the
building of tho M. E. church at Mur-
phy8vlllo arc now in the hands of the
committee and can bo seen at Mr.
Shell Rhodes', R. D. No. 2, Maysvlllc,
Ky. All bids must bo in by February
15. Tho right Is reserved to reject
any and all bids.
f-ll 1L ilrnocna nml olllr-nnl.xrtlm
dresses. Smart now models at half
price. Not many. Hunt's ad gives de-
1,11 ,t.
The Nomads will meet with Miss
Gracinitcrbbwer'on Wednesday.
Mr. Austin T. Davidson of Ripley,
was here Monday on business.
AGED RESIDENT DEAD
Mr. Margaret Child I'aMseil Away
.Monday After a Lingering
Illness.
Mrs. Margaret Chllds, aged 79 years,
died Monday about noon at her homo
on tho Mt. Sterling nnd Maysvlllo plko
sovcral miles east from this city. De
ceased had been In falling health for
tho last year but It was only recently
that her condition was regarded as
serious.
Mrs. Chllds was a mcmbor or tho
First Presbyterian church and took a
prominent part In its affairs. Sho Is
survived by soven children, John,
James, Henry nnd Isaac of this city,
Mrs. Amy Clarkson and Mrs. Albert
Schntzmann of tho county, nnd Mrs.
Robert L. Dunn of Mowroj'Btown, O.,
nnd three brothers, Mr. George W.
Rudy of this city, Mr. Will N. Rudy
of New Albany, Ind., and Mr. Charles
Rudy of Memphis, Tcnn.
Funeral arrangements arc not yet
announced.
Hunt's Linen Sale on larger scale
than ever opens Thursday. See nd,
ad.
Euchre tonight at Eagles' Hall.
Grass Creamery Butter
E Per Pound 35 Cents lons
Made in Maysville and Wc Get It Fresh Every Day.
It Sure Is Good.
1
3 107 West Second Street.
i Phone 20.
I
Read Hunt's ad for Coat, Suit and
Dress bnrgalns.
Mr. aeorgo W Davis of Flemings
burg, Is here on business.
LOOK HERE!
S Why Go to the Trouble and Expense of Ordering From a City
Wlien We Have a Complete Line of
Trusses, Crutches Abdominal Supports g
5 At a Reasonable Price. See Us. 5
5 M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
Judge J. M. Lee of Vanceburg, Is
hero on business.
$1.25 corset covor-and-drawcr com
binations 75c. Sco Hunt's ad.
THE HOME DF QUALITY CLDTHES
TWENTY-FIVE YEARS AGO MOST MEN WENT TO A CUSTOM BOOT MAKER FOR
THEIR SHOES, BUT HOW MANY GO TODAY?
Tho shoe stores multiplied nstoundingly because they sell more shoe fit, comfort and valuo
than the. custom hoot maker. The ready-for-usc makers have studied and classified every foot
until they can fit it exactly. It is simply a matter of a courteous clerk measuring your foot
to find the right standard, size and shape; then you have shoe satisfaction.
THAT IS TRUE OF CLOTHING ALSO. IN "HECHINGER" CLOTHES YOU CAN GET
THE EXACT FIT YOU CRAVE WHETHER YOU ARE STOUT OR SLIM, TALL OR SHORT.
A very slight adjustment is probably all yon need this is possible because we have con
centrated fifty-five years of close study on the assembling of clothes that do lit. Tho values,
the fabrics and the-workmanship are high in keeping.
Hake it a point to come in and let us prove it to you.
3D. HEOHEITSTGi-EJR. &. CO.
'EVERYONE LIKES THE FLAVOR OF WHEATINA
" wuv nvv ntnirinv it CitT.Vl'U Till? uilVlWiftT VUtlnT.W
J JI'KT Tt1lVU IVOTHHU HAHKKI. UK THE r III KMT NEW HKLKANN
aB8K8 EVER BttWQKT TO TOWN.
At tho Intersection of Lexington nnd
Second streets is a largo holo In the
street left by tho caving In and set
tling of somo Improperly tamped earth
when a sewer wag built along Second
street last summer. This holo Is fast
assuming dangerous proportions and
should be repaired.
CHLOROFORM E.M I
The last week residents of various
parts of tho city have been complain
ing of the number of stray dogs that
infost the streets. Somo step toward
ridding the city of theso pests should
be taken as they aro becoming a com
mon nuisance.
Having deckled to move our plumb
ing business to rooms on wcBt sldo
St. Charles Hotol building, will sacri
fice jirlces ou Oas and Coal Raugos.
JSl-St QKO. H. TRAXEL.
.PIMM 43.
13 Nightgowns $1.60.
read. Hunt's ad.
For .details-
PRACTICAL UNDERWEAR
Practical in the dependable quality of fabrics, in the cut that assures comfort without sacrifice of correct lines, in tho care
ful sewing and in the moderate prices. No wonder women aro unbounded in their enthusiasm over the unappronchable val
ues in this suTc.
The details of each garment are planned for satisfactory wear no buttonholes ready to ravel or raw edges ready to tear.
Measurements cut for a trim but easy fit Avhich means plenty oi freedom at neck nnd shoulders with tailored precision at
waist and hips. And prices are nil within the scope of women who want plentj' of undermuslins without a great expenditure
of money.
Gowns for women. Batiste, longcloth or nainsook,
50c to $2.
Gowns for Women. Crepe, 50c, $1, $1.25.
Gowns for Children 25c, 39c, 50o.
Drawers for Children 10c, 15c, 19o, 25c.
Drawers for Children, Longcloth Bloomers, 25c.
Drawers for Women, 25c, 50c.
Petticoats for Womon, 50c to $3.
Petticoats for Children 15c to 50c.
Princess Slips for Women 75c, $1, $1.25, $1.50.
Princess Slips for Children, 6 to 14 years. 50c, 75c.
Combination Corset Cover and Drawer 59c.
Envelop Chemise 50c, $1.
Corset Covers 25o to $1.
Great Reductions in Ready-Wear Garments
Women's $25 Suits $1212. And $20 Suits for $10. Excellent quality black Suits $5. Women's $12 Coats $8y2.
Furs, Children's Coats, Sweaters, Knit Shawls and Storm Veils, all at HALF PRICE.
1852
1016
WANTED.
Second-hand desk and cabinet. See
Ledger Publishing Company.
Mrs. Frank Snedlng of Chicago, Is
visiting Mrs. Louis Bohan of East Sec
ond street
Good and good looking black and
navy dress skirts for $2.98 and $3 V4
Just received at Hunt's.
Mrs. Alice Behan and daughter, Lula
Alice, aro visiting In Vanceburg this
week.
! The Af ter-Inventoring Sale
contmues all week. We add attractions eacn aay.
All our Ladies' Wash Waists and some silk ones that are in the
big case are now 75c, worth up to $2.50.
Choice of all Silk, Net and Chiffon Waists at thirty-three and
one-third per cent, discount.
If your soles need repairing befter see "Jones, the Shoe Hospital
Man.
1
