- f j
lead, $6.10; spelter, not quoted; cop- ZK FORECAST UTAH: Fair in south, .
per, firm; electrolytic, $'25.5026.00. lD snow In north portion tonight or Wed. - '
" nesday; not so cold.
' HAS THE LARGEST PAID SUBSCRIPTION LIST IN OGDEN AND WEBER COUNTY. I
. . ' J
Forty-s.xth Yr-No. 27. Price: Five Cento. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 1, 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Portoff ice, Ogden, TJUh. . '
(Ship Flying German War Flag Enters !
Newport News, Carrying Passengers I
of Seven Destroyed British Steamers I
u MISSING BRITISH LINER BROUGHT
INTO I). S, PORT RY GERMAN CREW
. Most Stirring Marine Happening of War Develops When
Steamer Appam Arrives Germans Capture Ship Off
,-, Canary Islands High Colonial Officials of British
(Government and Many Women and Children
Aboard Another Thrilling Chapter
Added to German Exploits at Sea
Ranks With Adventures of the
Dresden and Karlsruhe.
!y Newport News, Va., Feb. 1 With
I the German naval ensign flying bold
ly from her stern and In charge of a
, German prize crew, the British South
Africa liner Appam, given up for lost,
took refuge in Hampton Roads this
morning with the story of seven ves
sels destroyed by German sea raiders
"J off the African coast.
4- The Appam was captured off the
Canary Islands on January 15 by a
German raider four days after she had
sailed from Dakar, British West Afri-
ca, for Plymouth, England,
f Lieutenant Berg, the German naval
f. officer placed on the Appam when she
gl was captured, brought in the prize,
? eluding the cordon of British cruisers
M across the Atlantic and adding to the
S historic chapter of 'German exploits al
It sea, a chapter to rank with the adven
WT tures of the Dresden. Karlsruhe, Prin.
HI Eitel Friederich, U-29 and Kronprinz
"Willi elm.
H "Whether the captor was a German
m V boat, or a hitherto unreported Ger-
H man auxiliary cruiser, is undetermin-
Eci LEroniAwliatwas-learned by-some
Jj of the officials who boarded the Ap-
yj pam, It Is believed that some steamer,
armed as a Germaif auxiliary, raiding
shipping off the African coast, took
the British liner and put the prize
crew aboard. This view is supported
by the fact that a submarine could
hardly hae spared a lieutenant and
such a large crew to a prize.
There were a total of 451 persons
aboard the ship. Including the surviv
ing members of the crew of seven
other ships sunk by the raider which
captured the Appam, and twenty Ger-
fman civilians who were being trans
I ported from Africa to England to be
1 placed in detention camps,
i The persons on board the vessel
j were listed as .follows:
fw Original members of crew, 155; or-
iglnal passengers, 116; German pris
oners bound for British detention
camps, 20; survivors of ships destroy
ed 138; prize crew, 22.
A large percentage of the number
on board are women and children and,
it is said, several high colonial offi
cials who were returning to England
from Africa. There were also on
board the captured ship four wounded
sailors who were taken from one of
the sunken ships which resisted cap
ture and was shelled.
The passengers and captured crews
lined the rails of the craft as she lay
about a quarter of a mile off the Old
Point dock and appeared to evince
great interest in the hurried develop
ments following the unheralded ar
rival of the ship In Hampton Roads.
According to the information gleau
ed from those who had talked with.
Lieutenant Berg, in charge of the
prize crew, the liner was captured
without show of resistance on Janu
ary 15, the day that British news re
ports said wireless communication
with the vessel suddenly ceased. The
prize crew was placed on board and
on the same day the warship gave
chase to another British steamer,
whljch.w.asbound for Australia with
a cargo of meat. The meat ship gave
battle and was sunk, but not until a
large portion of her cargo had been
taken off for use by the Germans. Six
more vessels were destroyed in rapid
succession, it was stated, and the
crews taken on board the ship which
was then headed across the Atlantic
'for Hampton Roads. The run to this
port was made without incident, it
was said
Gives Fictitious Name.
"When the Appam came within the
Virginia Capes and took on a pilot,
the Fort Monroe wireless station ask
ed who she saw. The reply wan, it is
stated, "The German cruiser Buffalo."
Upon arrival off Old Point, Quar
antine Officer H W. McCaffery went
aboard and, after his Inspection,
brought Lieutenant Berg ashore. The
Appam was given a clean bill of
health, the four wounded sailors be
ing the only cases of sickness found.
Advertise Now-and Never Let Up
H. F. S., The Master Salesman.
As announced in yesterday's issue of The
Standard, this is the second article upon the sub
ject of "The Advertising Medium and the Adver
tisement." Now in regard to this second article. Adver
tising is really salesmanship, through the printed or
painted word. The successful salesman knows his
wares, presents them so they will attract attention,
arouses and maintains interest, creates desire and
stimulates, and, sometimes, forces purchase.
Here, in a nutshell, you have the secret of the
I "pulling"" advertisement. It must be built to attract
attention, to arouse and maintain interest, to create
desire, and to stimulate purchase. But where the
salesman can force a sale, the advertisement cannot.
It can stimulate the purchase only. Here is the
harder task of the advertisement. It must not only
create a desire but so intensify that desire as to com
pel action. It is the business of advertising to com
pel action. But to do that the advertisement must
suggest motives that will impel the customer to pur
chase the advertisement articles for his own person
al benefit.
The keynote of good advertising is suggestion
suggestion that compels desire and action. Sug
gestion in advertising acts through the five senses,
but its most forceful appeal is through the personal
interest.
This is the definition of advertising of Lewis
Wiley, president of the Daily Newspaper club, an
authority on advertising in America.
Study your advertisements.
fey Are they built to attract attention?
M-. ; Do they arouse and maintain interest?
fJM Do they create desire?
fL Do they stimulate purchase?
j Do they compel action?
J
Dr. McCaffery got In touch with the
German consul, L. Marshal von Schil
ling of Hampton, and the latter was
soon on the scene at Old Point. Lieu
tenant Berg then placed himself un
der the concul's orders and they
proceeded to the office of Colonel Ira
Kaynes, commandant of Fort Mon
roo, where the German officer paid
his respects and, it is said, explained
why he had given the wireless sta
tion the name of the German cruiser
"Buffalo."
Messages to German Embassy.
Lieutenant Berg and Consul von
Schilling sent a number of messages
to the German embassy at Washing
ton and later had conversations over
the long distance telephone with the
embassy and also Collector of the
Port Norman R. Hamilton at Norfolk
From the fort the lieutenant and con
sul went to Mr. von Schilling's office
at Hampton, where they were in close
conference and from Hampton they
planned to go to Norfolk to confer
with Collector Hamilton.
Ship Strictly Guarded.
Pending the receipt of instructions
from Collector Hamilton, no one is
allowed on or near the Appam. Guards
are at the rails on every side and no
gangplank is down. Efforts to com
municate with any of the passengers
from small boats encircling the steam
er were fruitless.
The ship has one 3-po,under mount
ed on her bow, but whether this was
on board before her capture or was
mounted by the Germans could not bo
ascertained She was brought in un
der the German man-of-war flag, In
stead of the German merchant flag,
and her name was given to the quar
antine officers as "S M. S " Appam,
meaning the German warship Api
sam, it Is said.
Norfolk, Va. Feb. 1. It is reported
here that the submarine which took
the Appam sunk seven other ships
and that of the latter there were only
two survivors who were Injured. It
is known that the Appam has four In
jured passengers aboard. Lieutenant
Berg denied that the Appam sunk any
other ships after the German prize
crew took her.
Names of Steamers Sunk.
Newport News, Feb. 1. The names
of the steamers sunk by the raider
which captured the Appam are given
as the Corbridge, Trader, Ariadne,
Dromonby. Farrlng-Ford, Clan, Macta
vish and Arthur
It is also reported now that the
raider was the German cruiser Mowe,
instead of a submarine, although this
Is not confirmed.
Newport News, Va., Feb 1. The
British South African liner Appam,
given up for lost, was brought into
Hampton Roads this morning flying
the German man-of-war flag with a
German prize crew of twenty-two men
commanded by Lieutenant Berg. She
was captured at sea January 15, four
days after she left Dakar, British
West Africa.
Tbe Appam brought her original
passengers, and 138 persons said to
have been taken from other vessels
by the Germans. Four injured pas
sengers on board are said to have
been taken from an English ship from
Australia, About 425 persons, includ
ing passengers and crew, are aboard
the ship.
The Appam was captured off the
Canary islands, on January 15, by a
German submarine which a few hours
before had sunk a British steamer.
Given Up for Lost.
New York, Feb. 1. The Appam
sailed from Dakar, In the Fretich col
ony of Senegal, West Africa, for
Ph-mouth. England, on January 11.
When about four days out. wireless
communication with the vessel sud
dcnlv ceased and as the days passed
without further word of her she was
virtually given up for lost
A dispatch from Hull. England, to
London Lloyds, on January 28, said
that tbe British steamship TrRgantUJ,
reported having passed at sea, on
January 16, a lifeboat with the name
Appam painted on the stern and with
the bows knocked away. It was fear
ed fahe had gone down in a scero
storm which occuvrcd in the waters
which she was passing, or possibly
had encountered a German submarine
operating on the African coast The
Appam, under ordinary conditions,
would have reached Plymouth on Jan
uary 21.
Carried 166 Passengers; Crew 134.
The Appam sailed with 166 passen
gers and with a crew of 134. Among
the passengers were British colonial
officials. After leaving Dakar she
called at all ports on the west coast
of Africa, picking up officials who in
tended to return to England on fur
lough. These men formed a consid
erable portldn of her passenger list.
Among the passengers who were
booked to sail on the Appam were Sir
Edward and Lady Meriwether and
their suite; Frederick Seton James,
former acting colonial secretary, and
closely identified with colonial admin
istrative affairs in Africa; Francis
Charles Fuller, who was appointed
chief commissioner of Askanti in 1905,
and Mrs, Fuller.
The Appam Is 425 feet long, 57 feet
beam, 7,781 tons gross. She was built
In 1903 at Belfast, Ireland, and was
owned by the British and African
Steam Navigation company, which Is
German Submarine
Crosses Atlantic to
American Waters
New York, Feb. 1. The British
consul-general hero today notified
British shipping to watch out for Ger
man submarines in American waters.
Information received at the consu
late from private sources leads them
to believe that a submarine had ac
companied the captured steamer Ap
pam on her voyage across the AU
lantlc.
under the direction of the Elder-Dempster
company.
22 German Prisoners.
A special dispatch received in New
York from Liverpool gave the number
of German prisoners on board the Ap
pam as 22. A statement issued by the
Elder-Dempster company at Liverpool
said the prisoners had been taken on
board the steamship at three West
African ports.
Washington. Jeb. 1. Customs -Collector
Hamilton at Norfolk reported
to the treasury that the German prize
steamer Appam, which came Into
Hampton Roads this morning, has
prisoners of wnr aboard His report
was referred at once to the state de
partment which will determine the
status of the vessel.
Later Appam Report.
The persons on tho Appam are di
vided as follows
Her own crew 115; passengers orig
inally on the steamship 155; survivors
of the seven ships destroyed in Ger
man sea raids off the African coast
13S; German prisoners bound for de
tention camps 20; prize crew 22. To
tal 450
New York, Feb. 1. The British
steamer Appam was captured about
.January 15 near the Canary islands
by a small steamer haviug the appear
ance of a tramp but heavily armed,
according to information obtained
from Norfolk by Daniel Bacon, freight
agent here for the owners of the Ap
pam. Washington, Fob. 1. The 'first re
port to the German embassy came
from the German consul at Norfolk,
who telegraphed that "a German aux
illary cruiser" had come Into port.
Americans Puzzled.
Washington, Fob. 1. The German
embassy has no record of Lieutenant
Berg and officials suppose he may be
an officer of the German merchant
marine in the auxiliary service.
Embassy officials as well as Ameri
can naval officials are puzzled and do
not understand how a submarine
could spare such a large prize crow to
put on the Appam. None of the offi
cials could understand why an offi
cer with the rank of lieutenant would
leatc a submarine to take command
of a prize.
Prince Hatzfeldt of the German em
bassy is leaving for Norfolk late to
day "to take charge of the situation.
FOURTH DAY OF
WILSON'S TOUR
Train Carries Presidential
Party Through Iowa Chief
Address at Des Moines.
CROWDS WELCOME
United States Navy Inadequate
in Size But Not in Quality
Americans Are Idealists.
Chicago, Fob. L The fourth day of
President Wilson's tour of the middle
west on his speaking tour for national
preparedness today carried him west
of the Mississippi through Iowa,
whero his program called for the
chief address of the day at Des Moines
at 8 p. m. in the Coliseum. Four brief
talks from the rear platform of his
car at Davenport, Iowa City, Grinnell
and Newton, Iowa, are on the program
for tho afternoon.
Before the president's special left
Chicago today the members of hiB
party expressed their pleasure at the
hearty welcome accorded him herq.
They said the local response to his
plea for support in preparing for an
adequate national defense had fully
met their expectations. The great
crowds that welcomed him and the
throng that stopped to hear him
most of them unsuccessfully because
of the limited capacity of the auditor
ium were Interpreted by them as
favorable expressions of Chicago's ap
proval of his policy.
Yesterday's somewhat strenuous ac
tivities including an -address before
an audience of 9,000 at Milwaukee and
the long speeches here last night,
were to be succeeded by a realization
of activity today. The first of the
four flve-mlnute talks enroute to Des
Moines was not to be delivered until
2-30 p. m. This was at Davenport
Reiterates Plea For Preparedness.
The president's speech of last night
was in a large measure a reiteration
of his previous pleas for speedy up
building of the army and navy and his
endorsement of the continental army
plan. His assertion that so far as the
navy was concerned, the country was
prepared for Immediate war caused
a momentary flutter in the audience,
but was softened by his declaration
that the navy was inadequate in size,
though not in quality. His reference
to American ideals and "the solemn
pledge of this country" to maintain
the national sovereignty of the coun
tries in the western hemisphere was
received with applause and his de
scription of Americans aB a "body of
Idealists, much more ready to lay
down their lives for a thought than a
dollar" elicited a prolonged burst of
bandclapping and cheering.
A stop of four and one-half hours is
on the president's program tor Des
Moines. Reaching there at 6:50 p. m.
he expects to address the meeting at
the Coliseum at 8 p. m. and leave at
11:25 p. m. for Topoka and Kansas
City where he will deliver addresses
tomorrow. Enroute to Topeka a five
minute talk-from-the-train-will be de
livered at Lawrence, Kansas.
Cadels to Honor President.
Iowa City, Iowa, Feb. 1. When
President Wilson arrived in Iowa City
this afternoon he was greeted with a
real preparedness demonstration.
Drawn up in closed columns and
standing at attention as the presiden
tial train pulled In, wore five hundred
members of the cadet regiment of the
State University of Iowa.
The regiment was headed by Its
band, but tho cadets did not carry
their rifles as Is customary' during
drill.
FLOOD SITUATION
IS IMPROVING
Waters in Most Parts of South
western States, Except Kan
sas, Reported Receding.
FARMS OVERFLOWED
Levee Breaks Near Cummins,
Arkansas Forty Families
Marooned Boats Sent
to Rescue.
Kansas City, Mo., Feb. 1. Condi
tions in most parts of the southwest
ern states affected by floods are im
proved, according to reports early to
day, with the exception of southeast
ern Kansas, which report high waters
have recently flowed over thousands
of acres of farm lands and have- driv
en many people from their homes.
Further damage was done last night
r.ear Cummins, Ark., where a levee
broke, Inundating a largo section of
land.
No word has come this morning
from Achard's Ferry, near Redfleld,
Ark., where last night forty families
were reported marooned by floods. It
was reported boats had been sent to
their rescue.
Train service in some sections Is
still seriously interfered with, many
trains being detoured on account of
high water.
Washington, Feb. 1. Tho weather
bureau today in a special river bulle
tin reports:
Tho Mississippi river falling at St.
Louis after reaching a stage of 31.5
feet; the Ohio rising throughout its
leogth and the Mississippi below Ca
rlo rising with the flood stage of 18
feet reported at Now Orleans.
REBELS CROSS GREAT
WALL OF CHINA
London, Feb. 1, 3:55 p. m. The
Mongolian insurgents have crossed
the great wall of China nnd an ad
vance guard of 2,000 is besieging the
city of Da Turn Fa, according to a
dispatch from Mukdon forwarded by
Reuter's correspondent at Petrograd.
2
FIFTY-FOUR KILLED AND SIXTY
SEVEN INJURED IN AIR RAID
British Issue Official Statement Much Damage to Property
Zeppelins Direct Attacks at Great Manufacturing Cen-
ters of England Seeking Out Munitions Factories
Furious Attacks Continue on French Front
Germans Claim Advantage Turk Situa- " " j
tion Grows More Serious Eighty !
Thousand Men Under Von der ' j
Gotz Locked Up in Erzerum. j
London, Feb. 1, 5:59 p. m. Fifty-four persons were
killed and 67 injured in last night's Zeppelin raid. The figures
were contained in an official statement issued here this after
noon. The official statement says bombs were dropped at
several towns and in rural districts in Derbyshire, Leicester
shire, Lincolnshire and Staffordshire. Some damage to prop
erty was caused. . j
i
Berlin, Feb. 1, via London, 11:30 a.
m. The official statement today from
army headquarters states that in the
region of the Somme, the French have
lost more ground In hand grenade
encounters.
Tho statement follows:
"Western front: During the night
of the 31st, small British detachments
attempted a movement against our
positions we3t of Messlgnes, Flanders.
They were completely repulsed after
they had succeeded In penetrating our
trenches at one point.
"Near Frlcourt, east of Albert, we
prevented the enemy by our fire from
"occupyinga-" crater -produced by ex
plosion of one of his mines. North
of this German patrols penetrated in
to an English position and returned
with some prisoners without having
suffered any loss.
'South of the Somme, the French
lost more ground in a hand grenade
fight.
"Eastern theater: There is nothing
to report
"Balkan theater of war: One of
our airships attacked ships and de
pots belonging to the entente in the
port of Salonikl with great success."
Armed Vessels Arrive,
New York. Feb. 1. Two 3 6 naval
guns were mounted on the afterdeck
of the Italian steamship Caserta when
it arrived here today from Genoa and
Naples. This Is the fourth Italian
steamer carylng mounted guns to ar
rive a't this port within the past few
weeks.
Von der Goltz Leads Turks.
Rome, Fob. 1, via Paris, 4 55 a. m.
The Giornale d'ltalla learns from
Petrograd that Field Marshal von der
Goltz is now in command of the Turk
ish forces at Erzerum and that there
are 80,000 men locked up in the city
with provisions for only a fortnight
The Black sea fleet Is supporting the
operations of the Russian forces on
land. The Russian right wing is now
marching on Trebizond, according to
the same information.
Review of War Situation.
One of the most stirring marine
happenings of the war developed to
day with the arrival of missing Brit
ish steamer Appam at Newport News
with a German prize crew on board.
She had been captured off the Ca
nary Islands by a German submarine
while on her way from Dakar, Africa,
for Plymouth, England, the capture
being affected on January 16, four
days after the Appam left Dakar.
The passengers aboard the Appam,
which for days was given up for lost,
originally included high colonial of
fi?nln nf thfi British Government.
Zeppelin Raid in England.
Last night's Zeppelin raid on Eng
land apparently was not directed at
London, the course of the raiders be
ing more to the north, possibly tak
ing in the great manufacturing cen
ter of Manchester and apparently be
ing Intended to seek out and damage,
or destroy, munitions factories.
What is believed to have been an
attack at a third raid on Paris with
in three days was foiled by the look
outs on the French front, according
to Paris advices.
Tho situation at Erzerum is report
ed more serious for the Turks than
previous advices have indicated.
There are said to be 80,000 men un
der Field Marshal von der Goltz lock
ed up in the city with only two weeks
provisions on hand.
London, Feb. 1, 2:36 p. m. Official
denial was made here today of reports
attributed to German sources that
England intends to abandon her al
lies and has made peace overtures to
Germany.
The statement follows:
"The Gorman chancellor has stated
that England is compelling her allies
to refrain from entering upon any
peace movements. This statement,
which our allies know to be untrue,
was made for tho purpose of injuring
England in the oyes of neutrals.
"To our allies, on the other handj
we hear that insidious and untrue re
ports are being circulated from Ger- j
man sources that England intends to
abandon them 'and has even made
peace overtures to Germany which 1
have been refused.
"Two statements together are a 1
good illustration how unscrupulous I
German methods are." I
Chimes and Bells Stopped.
London, Feb. 1, 12:50 p. m By di
rection of the naval and military au
thorities, the police ordered dlscon- -
tinuance of chimes and the striking
of hjojirsJjyjjiuWiCjCjocks . bo.tw.een sun- -seCanS.
sunrise as a precautionary
measure. y J
uu
RAID ON PARIS
IS ABANDONED
French, Warned of Approach
ing Airship, Turn on Search
lights and Prepare
for Battle.
ENGLAND GETS FEW
Six or Seven German Dirigi
bles Pass Over Eastern, '
Northeastern and Mid- i
land Counties.
' i
Paris, Feb. 1, 4:50 a. m. A Zeppe- . j
lin started in the direction of Paris
last night at 9 '45 p. m. A warning
was sent out from Compiegne that a
German airship had been cited In
movement The military-governor of
Paris gave orders that preparations ,
be made to give the alarm if neces
sary. When the Zeppelin, however,
got Into the field of searchlights, on
tho French front It turned back and la .
supposed to havo abandoned a pro
jected raid.
London, Feb. 1, 11:40 a. m The .
press comments at length upon the
Zeppelin raid of last night but no offi
cial details have been made public
in addition to the war office state
ment to tho effect that six or seven
airships passed over ithe Eastern,
northeastern and midland counties of
England, dropping a number of bombs.
At tho time the announcement was
mado, no considerable damage had j
been reported. i j
on- I !
MANCHESTER IN
ZEPPELIN RAID ( I
Attack Was Directed at the I
Great Manufacturing "
Center.
i j
London, Feb. 1. The press com- ' I
ments at length upon the Zeppelin ft
raid of last night, but no official de- til
tails have been made public in ad- I J
dltion to the war office statement to ' j P
tho effect that six or ssvon airships H
passed over the eastern, northeastern j KJ
and midland counties of England j f
dropping a number of bombs. Mi
Tho territory roughly outlined In i tt-
the British official statement of last m m
night might bo construed as ipclud- ;.
lng tho city of Manchester, which is
30 miles from the western eoast of
England, to tho east of Liverpool and M
164 miles northwest of London. It ' M
Is a city of vast manufacturing inter- ,
ests, a number of fine P"olicu"5 ij
lugs and a population of over 550,000. . jMi
