ME \SLES.
is a disease which is sudden in onset, easilv
acquired, and recognized by moderate fever,
more or less discharge from the nose and
sore throat, sometimes a dry cough, and a
reddish eruption slightly raised and first
appearing about the face and head, later
covering the entire body. This breaking
out occurs on the fourth day after the pati
ent first begins to complain. There is
usually a moderate fever. After exposure
to the contagion it takes from 10 to 11 days
for the disease to appear. Owing to the
ease with which it may be acquired, it is us
ually referred to as a disease of childhood,
although one may have it at any age if
not protected by a previous attack. A very
large percentage of people have it during
school life or earlier.
Good care during the disease is essential
to prevent complications. A form of pneu
monia is perhaps the worst thing to fear,
and this results from the child being al
lowed to be up and around, in drafts, on
cold floors, running out of doors, illventi
lated rooms. Eye inflamations sometimes
occur, especially if the room be not moder
ately darkened. Other things may occur,
but are seldom seen if good care is provided.
Proper care includes remaining indoors,
out of drafts, good ventilation, slightly
darkened rooms, remaining in bed with
plenty of loose warm cover until a day or two
after the eruption has disappeared, and not
going out doors for at least a week more.
A moderate cathartic at the onset, perhaps
a little medicine for the cough as needed,
and a gargle for the throat usually covers
the required medication. More severe cases
should be seen by the physician promptly.
Winter months, especially such winters
as we have at Red Lake, mean the closer
crowding and poorer ventilation which un
doubtedly favor the spread of the disease.
The discharges from the nose and throat
are given credit for being the route by which
the disease is spread. Exposure and danc
ing in the average Indian dancehouse, es
pecially in cold weather are very prompt in
spreading the disease just the same as it
which later often ended in pneumonia and
helped spread lagrippe here recently, and
in death to a number of cases.
The first case Aa seen on this side of the
lake in June. In August more occurred
Then no more until this month when 2 oc
curred at Little Bock, and now some twenty
odd eases in the Catholis school. Cross
Lake district has had a string reaching from
August irntil the present time, though not
many cases have been at the same time.
The Catholic school is now quarantined.
No children therein will be permitted to
leave until the epidemic is well over. Xo
owsid children will be given admission,
and all persons outside are requested to
refrain from visiting that school or fittend
ing that church until further notice. Fail
ure to observe proper precautions will mean
the further spread of the disease, and the
babies, as usual, will be "the ones to suffer
the consequences.
AGEXCY ITEMS.
Several weeks ago it was reported that
RE LAK E NEWS
SUBSCRIBE FOR THE NEWS
VOLUME 4. RED LAKE, MINNESOTA, FEBRUARY 1, 1916. NUMBER 11
Elmer Morgan, a pupil at the Wahpeton
school from the Cross Lake District, was
quite ill with pneumonia. Daily reports
from Superintendent Carter indicate that
he is much better.
Ed. Holeinday and Benjamin Stately re
turned to Wahpeton on the 26th.
Born to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph^ C. Omen
January 7th a baby boy. ^Mt^W^-'^/H^f
I torn to Mr. and Mrs. Anton Dohle Jan
uary 17th a seven and one-half pound girl.
torn to Mr. and Mrs. Berquist of Bedby,
Minnesota, January 16th a baby boy.
On account of the snow drifts, which
were four feet deep in places, it was neces
sary for the lied Lake railway Sunday, the
30th, to run a snow plow between Bedby and
Hemidji. This delayed the tram's arrival
in Bemidji about three hours after schedule
time.
Xe-gaun-ah-quod-oke, sixty three years
old, wife of Nay-ah-tub, died January 17th
after about a week's illness with pneumonia.
Genevive Jourdain, aged fifty-five years,
the wife of Alexeance Jourdain, recently
deceased, died on the 16th. Surviving Mrs.
Jourdain are Mrs. Anna Fineday, Nay-gah
bow and Ke-me-wun of this reservation and
Mis-sah-bake, a half sister, living near Pons
ford, Minnesota.
Shah-Avun-e-be-nais, or Fannie Barten
died of pneumonia on the 19th.
Josephine Cobenais, recently enrolled at
the Sac & Fox Sanatorium, passed away on
the 30th.
Pete Savers, Simon Sayers, Keniew, and
Pete Thompson of the Little Bock Club
spent part of this week hauling hay for Joe
Boxer.
Francis Gurneau, 'John Johnson, and
Jacob Moose started logging. They figure
on putting in about 7.~,00 feet.
Supt. Walter F. Dickens left on January
20th on a business trip for Washington, D.
C.
Chief Clerk Blakeslee left on a business
trip to Warroad, Minnesota.
Frank Miller of Bemidji, who has been
helping out carpenter work, left for his
home January 30th, where he was called
to take his daughter to the Mayo Hospital
in Bochester, Minnesota.
"Smoky" Kelly has experienced consid
erable trouble in keeping the road broke
to Bedby.
In spite of the deep snow a number of the
Indians are still hauling cordwood for the
school.
E. B. King's chickens still hold the re
cord of laying eggs. They have laved every
day except one all winter.
Mr. King will soon have the counter in
the lobby of the Agency office completed.
Mr. F. T. Carr of Detroit and Miss M. E.
Warren of Minneapolis, both of who are
connected with the Department of Justice,
made a recent visit to the Agency in order
to determine the blood status of certain In
dians.
Mrs. Esther Moylan of Sherwood, Oregon,
in a letter acknowledging receipt of checks
mailed to her children, wishes a Happy New
Year to her many friends at Bed Lake.
Miss Julia Wells has made application
(Continued on Page 2)
W ABATING.
The introduction of intoxicating liquors
into this reservation or its sale to non
citizen Indians is forbidden by law under
a penalty of imprisonment for not less
than sixty days.
See Act of January 80, 1897 (29 State
L 506.)
RED LAKE SCHOOL ITEMS.
January 28th the school employees and
children gave their usual Friday social, and
along about ten o'clock served coffee and
doughnuts at ten cents. After several
lances enjoyed by all, Miss Moore announc
ed that a Valentine Social would be given
on the eleventh of February and that the
proceeds amounting to $7.30, received that
evening, would be used in financing the
event.
Miss Mabel Moore called a meeting of
the mess employees January 31st for the
purpose of electing a new Mess Manager.
Miss Thomas and Miss Hoffman were nom
inated, and after a verbal vote had been
taken .Miss Thomas was elected to the posi
tion by a vote of six to four.
Mrs. E. E. Stevens will be the "Teacher
of Cooking/' and will teach three or four
school girls at a time in all branches of do
mestic science.
Tndoubtedby the mess members made a
wise choice in electing Miss Thomas mess
manager as she has formerly been teach
ing the domestic science claj^an^ knows*
better than anyone else just what will be
needed in this department.
FARM STATION ITEMS.
WTe
are having our share of snow.
Grandma Dickens is taking care of the
Lee children while Mrs. Lee is away at the
hospital.
Robert E. Lee arrived January 16th.
He weighs nine pounds. His mother is
sitting up again and will return to the
Farm station in a day or two.
Louis Gurneau is visiting at the Agency
this week.
Frank and Louis Carl were callers at
the Farm Station on business the 23rd.
Stockholders in the shingle mill will
meet Saturday, February 5th, and will im
mediatelv proceed to manufacture shingles.
N. J. Head called at the Farm Station
the 23rd. He is inspecting the cedar that
is being cut in this district.
Mr. Brun delivered meat to the Bed Lake
School the 22nd.
The roads are almost impassable on ac
count of the snow drifts.
(ins Larjenesse says he is going to invest
in cattle. He says milk is a good thing to
have in the family.
The sheep at the Farm Station are look
ing fine.
CROSS LAKE ITEMS.
John G. Morrison of Bed Lake passed
through here and later returned from the
Chippewa branch store at Waskish.
Blake Bosebear has made application
for enrollment in the Sac & Fox Sanatorium
Toledo, Iowa.
Donald Perkins died January 5th at his
home near Mequom Bay.
The following births during the month:
(Continued on Page 2)
