THE BARRE-- DAILY TIME
VOL. XIX NO. 272.
RARHK, VK1LMOXT, TUKSDAV, FKHHUAUV 1, 1010.
PRICK. OXK CKXT.
TAKEN
TO PORT
AS PRIZE
The British Steamer Appam,
About Which Alarm Was
Felt Because She Was Not
Reported Since Jan. 15,
Steamed into Hampton
Roads Today. With Ger
mans in Charge
HIGH OFFICIALS
OF BRITISH ABOARD
Crew From a German Sub
marine Were in Charge of
the Ship When She Ar
rived, the Vessel Appar
ently Having Surrendered
When Attacked en Route
to England
INJURED MAN
PUT UNDER GUARD
Newport News, V., Feb. 1. The British-South
African liner Appam, wttich
was given up for lost, was brought into
Hampton Roads this morning flying a
German man-of-war flag and with a Ger
man pri2e crew of 22 men commanded by
Lieutenant Berg. She was captured at
sea on Jan. IS, four days after she left
Dakar, British West Africa.
The Appam brought her original pas
sengers and 156 persons said to have been
taken from other ships by jthe Germans.
Four injured passengers on board were
said to have been taken from an English
ship from Australia. There were about
425 persons, including passengers and
crew, aboard the ship.
John E. Teiper la Being Watched Pend
ing Investigation of Mysterious
Murder on Outskirts of
Buffalo.
Buffalo, X. Y.. Feb. 1. Under onion
from District Attorney Wesley C. Dud
ley, a deputy sheriff was placed on guard
luxt nillit at the home of John E. leiper
one of. the two surviving members of an
automobile party of four which was tnur
dcrously attacked on tho highway bo
tween llufftilo and Orchard Turk yeater
day.
The victims of the tragedy were his
mother, Mrs. Agnes M. ieiper, a widow
07 years old, his brother, Frederick C,
26 years, old, an engineer on structural
steel work, who were killed outright,
and Miss Grace J. Teiper, a sinter, wlios
skull was fractured in five places and
who is in a dying condition. John J'.d
ward Teiper has a severe contusion on
the forehead.
The guard was placed on Teiper's home
after ho had made a sworn statement to
Mr. Dudley in which he repeated a story
told to the sheriff earlier in the day to
tho effect that the murderous atack was
made by a man, apparently a negro,
while he and his brother were attempt
ing to repair his automobile, which had
stalled in the highway early last even
ing.
In his sworn statement, Mr. Teiper
said that he had invited his mother, sis
ter and brother to visit him at his Or
chard Park home Sunday evening. He
started in toward Buffalo late in the aft
ernoon, he said, when his automobile
stalled. He abandoned it and walked to
the city to arrange for repairs.
At the city line, Mr. Teiper said, ho
met his relatives, who were in an auto
mobile, and decided to co back to his
home at Orchard Park with them, in-
tending to arrange for the repair of his
own machine later on.
About midnight when his mother, sis
ter and brother were ready to return
to the city, Teiper said, he decided to
go with them, repair his stranded ma
chine and return home in it.
Teiper said he had the hood of his
stranded automobile up and was exam
ining the engine when he heard a warn
ing cry from his brother. He. turned to
find a strango man in the circle of light
made by the headlight of the other ma
chine and a moment later he was knocked
unconscious ' by a blow on the bead.
When he regained his senses, he said, he
found his mother, sister and brother ap
parently dead and he started toward the
nearest farmhouse to summon help. He
thinks he lost consciousness again for
the next thing he remembers was the ar-
rivwl of f.he notice
An investigation y the sheriff de
veloped several circumstances that were
mystifying. When Frederick's body was
lifted it was found that he. was lying on
his brother's hat. Although Mr. Teiper's
head was terribly crushed there was very
little blood on the seat of the automo
BIG AIRCRAFT
OVER ENGLAND
Number of Bombs Dropped
But Damage is Not
Reported
SIX OR SEVEN .
ZEPPELINS IN RAID
British Had Been Warned
Jan. 26 of a Possible
Attack
pressea oy tne frencn autnorities mat hag ewr had to wrimff thttt j.
rue mvuukb were uouuuess iiieieiy seems almost US'
I : 1 ii l . . a I t : tr
Lieutenant Berg came ashore to pay Laid tllat the woIKg'on tho top of the
his respects to Colonel Haynes, the com
.winder of Fortress Monroe, while the
quarantine officers visited the ship. The
vessel came into port under the name of
H. M. S. Appam, meaning His Majesty's
Ship Appam, thereby indicating that the
Germans may contend the vessel was an
auxiliary cruiser. She hajj one three-inch
'gun mounted aboard.
When the submarine shot across the
Appam's bow she was immediately halt
ed on account of the large number of
passengers she carried, according to Cap
tain Harrison of the linerr"
When she left Dakar on Jan. 11, the
Appam carried 168 passengers and a crew
of 133. Several high colonial officials of
the British government are supposed to
have sailed on the steamer.
APPAM ARRIVAL
MAKES PROBLEM
United States Must Decide Whether Ves
sel Is Merely a Prize of War or Is
an Auxiliary Cruiser.
Washington, D. C, Feb. 1. Customs
Collector Hamilton at Norfolk has re
ported to the treasury department that
the German prize steamer Appam, which
came into Hampton Roads this morning,
has prisoners of war aboard. His re
port was referred at once to the state de
partment, which will determine the sta
tus of the vessel.
The first report of the German em
bassy came from the German consul at
Norfolk, who telegraphed that a German
auxiliary cruiser had come into port.
Perplexing questions of international law
may arise as the result of the arrival of
the Appam. The United States must de
termine whether the ship is simply a
prize of war or whether she has been
supplied with armament which would
give her the character of an auxiliary
cruiser. So far as naval authorities here
know, no case exactly like it has arisen
since the beginning of the war.
head had not been inflicted while the
woman sat in the machine, there .being
insufficient room to wield a weapon in
side the automobile top.
When these facts were reported to Dis
trict Attorney Dudley he requested the
sheriff to bring John Edward Teiper to
his office. Teiper's doctor declared, how
ever, that the man's condition made the
trip inadvisable.
Casper Teiper, the husband and father,
died in 1000, leaving an estate appraised
at $125,000. His will provided that the
income from the estate should go to his
wife during her life. At her death the
property was to be divided equally among
the four children, Grace J., John Edward,
Frederick C. and a third son, Charles H.,
secretary-treasurer of the Buffalo Struc
tural Steel company, which was found
ed by the father. Charles H. was called
home from New York yesterday by the
tragedy. ' .
London, Feb. 1. A raid by six or
seven Zeppelin airships took place last
night over the eastern, northeastern and
midland counties of England, according
to an announcement of the war office.
A number of bombs were dropped, but
no considerable damage has jecn reported.
A resumption of the Zeppelin raid
on London and the cast coast of Eng
land was expected by the British au
thorities and on January ,20 a special
arning was sent out by the police,
Inch after referring to the increase
in the offensive protection against hos
tile aircraft recently provided in the
metropolitan district, advised the pub
lie on the occasion of air raids to take
cover.
After tho Zeppelin raid on Paris Sat
urday and Sunday nights, the view was
ex
th
prelude to a more extensive movement
bv German air craft, and the fact that
six or seven machines have taken part
in the new raid on England would in
dicate a well considered plan by the
Germans to increase the activity of
their dirigibles and probably bring into
play the new Fokker machines which
arc reported to be very effective en
gines of war.
Discussing the possibility of serious
damage to London from a Zeppelin at
tack, The Times says:
"Any raid intended to do serious dam
age to London, the defenses of which are
still in process of development, is nots
likely to be of the haphazard nature of
the Pans rains. It remains for us to
provide a really serious reception.
"Hitherto London's principa efforts in
this direction consisted chiefly of guns
largely manned by cheery, but inexperi
enced and ill-equipped amateurs. No one
who witnessed the raids on London lust
autumn can have failed to have been im
pressed by the inadequacy of the defen
sive preparations. Since then, consider
able progress has "been made, but we
should be fetter satisfied if we had also
sufficient aeroplanes to attack the raid-
U. S. NAVY READY.
But Army is Woefully Weak Declares
President Wilson.
Chicago, Feb. ,1. The I'nited State
has made preparations for immediate
war as far as the navy is concerned, al
though thu Nrescnt naval force is inudu
quate in size, President Wilson declared
last night in an address before several
thousand persons in the auditorium here,
We mean business, lie said in speak-
ing of tho prepuredness plan of the cd-
ministration.
We have given to the present fleet of
the I'nited States an organization such
as it never had before, 1 am told by Ad
miral Fletcher," the president said, and
we have made preparation for immed
iate war, so far as the navy is con
cerned."
The armv," the president said, "as
at present constituted is not large
enough efen for tut ordinary duties of
peace.
The president repeated Ins warning
that no time must be lost in strength
ening the defenses of the nation. He de
clared the government was doing every
thing it could for preparedness.
When I aee some of our fellow citi
zens spread tinder where the sparks are
falling, I wonder what their ideal of
Americanism is," the president said.
America. Jhe president said, had been
cruelly misjudged by the nations now a
war.
"I know that on the other side of th
water there has been a great deal
cruel misiudirment with regard to th
reasons why America has remained neu
tral. Those looking at us from a dis
tance do not feel the strong pulses o
ideals and principles that are m us
"They do not feel the conviction of an
American, that our mismon is a mission
of peace and that righteousness cannot
be maintained as a standard in the
midst of arms. They do not realize that
back of all our energy we are a body of
idealists much more ready to lay down
our lives for a tNJught than for a dollar,
"They suppose, some of them, that
we are holding off because we can make
money while others are dying, the most
cruel misunderstanding that any nation
ANXIETY
RELIEVED
U. S. Submarine K-5 Steam
ing Safely Toward Key-West
NAVV DEPARTMENT
GETS REPORT
One of Searching Vessels
Sends Definite News of
the Submersible.
seems almost useless to try to correct it
because it shows that the very funda
mentals of our life are not comprehended
or understood.
Rulers, not public opinions, 'brought
about the present war, Air. Wilson do-clared.
"I thank God there is no man in the
United States who has the authority to
bring on'war without the consent of the
nation," he said.
The task of the United States, he said,
has been to assert the principles of law
in a world in which the principles of law
have broken down.
FRENCH SHOVED BACK
STILL FURTHER
SOUTH OFSOMME
The Daily Express in an editorial to
day, after remarking that the latest
Zeppelin attacks are certain to provoke,
great indignation in the United States,
urges on that country the necessity of
preparedness. '
'Former President Roosevelt is trying
to push President Wilson into war," says
ORDERED SON SENT HOME.
Washington. D. C, Feb. 1. Tho Unit
ed States submarine K-5 is safe and pro
reeding under her own steam for Key
West, Florida, according to a naval radio
ineHHHL'e received at the navy depart
ment today from Captain Simpson of
the destroyer Sterrett, one of the vessels
which was engaged in searching lor tne
missing submersible.
The message, which came via Key
West, said: "At 3:5.5 a. m. K-5 five
miles southeast of Fowey Rock and
Bteaming south at ten knots. No cas
ualties and no assistance required."
Fowey Kock is a lighthouse about ten
miles from Miami. The submarine
should reach Key West late today.
S5TH WEDDING ANNIVERSARY.
PLEADS NOT GUILTY
When Arraigned Upon the Charge of
Bigamy.
Rutland, Feb. 1. Charles J. Oonnell
of this city pleaded not guilty to a
charge of bigamy before Judge F. G.
Swinnerton in city court yesterday
morning, bail being fixed at $800, which
was furnished by the young man's coun
sel. Attorney Walter S. Fenton. The
case was held open, pending some civil
proceedings. Grand Juror Charles t,.
Novak prosecuted.
The case has attracted not a little
attention throughout this section, par
ticularly among the officials, because of
the claim by young Connell, who for
merly lived in Watervliet, N". Y., that
he has been the victim of police perse
cution. He admits that he was married
five years ago to Miss Margaret Barrett,
who lived next door to his home, fol
lowing seduction proceedings, and he aft
erwards served time in Elmira, N. Y.,
for abandonment.
lie finally left New York state, came
to Rutland and was married last Novem
ber to Miss Dorothy Lillian Carnell of
this city, without first obtaining a di-
orce from his first wife. Connell now
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Lafayette Guests of
Honor Last Evening.
A surprise party was tendered Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Lafayette last evening at
the South Burro grange hall in observ
ance of their 25 th wedding anniversary.
The affair, which was in thn hands of the
South Barre grange, assisted in the plan
ning by two sons of Mr. and Mrs. Lafay
ette, Ernest and Perley, was largely at
tended by friends of the couple, who as
sembled at the hall, then communicating
by telephone with tho guests of honor
requesting their presence.
They received many gifts eommem
orative of the occasion, including silver
knives and forks and other, gifts of sil
ver. W. M. Dudley presented the knives
and forks, representing the grango am
their friends, and Mr. Lafayette respond'
d briefly, thanking the givers for him
self and wife, refreshments of cake and
coffee were served and the event was
most happy for tho guests of honor and
their friends.
Delia Duprcy and Frank Lafayette
were married in South JJarra by Kev.
A. M. W heeler, and the anniversary cele-
bration took place within a stone's throw
of where the ceremony was performed.
Their whole life has been spent in Barre
and Harre J own and for the past 11
years they have resided on the farm
which they own on the west hill.
They have five sons and one daughter,
all of whom live at home Ernest, Per
ley, Roland, William, Raymond and
Blanche.
CALAIS LOST
60SLANT CASE
Supreme Court 'Affirms Low
er Court Verdict of
$229.70
TRYING TO GET HOME.
Telegram to Burlington Police Purported
to Be from Bridegroom's Father.
Burlington, Feb. 1. A telegram pur-
nortimr to t-Otrte from the toiihit man's I
father was receive! by Harold Eugene j,m h the first Mrs. Connell was
nriifrimr I out after the money, and that since
him to return home to the paternal fire-!.'1'8 "rriage she has broken up his own
side in Banuor. Me., or rather, the Bur-(home, his father and mother having sep
lingtoD police were ordered to send Har
old home bv first train. The telegram
reads as follows?
"Harold Jones, 18-year-old boy, at
Sherwood hotel. Send him home. Trav
eling with Bob Ott show, leaving for
Plattsburg."
When Harold and Jennie Ossiledehik,
chorus girl with the Ott company, ap
plied for a marriage license last Friday
the former gave his age as 21, and the
latter admitted as many years and one
. ti'i ii.. r t : 1 .
the Daily Express, "but the president I "! 1 , "m" ",e .K I"""
knows America is unprepared, otherwise purporting w come iron;with Sollth j,Hrre grlulge No
i. j- .1,.:' ' i. the bridegroom s father, they summoned i it-.j .i t.-l a...nZ u.
lie iiiiuiib uu Buiiiriiuiig iiiuie uvmui'S li T f
arated because of the woman, who is
older than Connell. This feature of the
case is being investigated.
It is probable that annulment proceed
ings will be instituted against the first
Mrs. Connell and that Connell will again
marry Miss Carnell.
POMONA GRANGE MEETING
With So. Barre Grange Wednesday, Feb.
9 Interesting Program Prepared.
Central Vermont Pomona will meet
467, on
156 SURVIVORS . -OF
SEVEN SHIPS
German Official Statement Claims Success
In Hand Grenade Engagements
French Official Report Tells
Only Artillery Firing.
Berlin, Feb. 1. The official statement
to-day says that in the region south of
Lthe Somme the French have lost more
ground in hand grenade encounters.
Paris, Feb. 1. Artillery firing between
the Oise and the Aisne is reported in the
official statement to-day, bttt no perma
nent results are claimed.
: i t. - f ' . : ,
w i ilc , iiiuiuuHiiu jiutrn. ureal rrtini ' -T , , - t. . i
,.,.. i a i . : ii.. !,: it ! Jones came and also came his bride. Mrs,
, , , ,.' . , Jones did most of the talk
we would still be writing notes about
Belgium. The United States may be
sure of one thing if the C.ernians win
this war, America will be their next ob
ject, of attack." '
ey summoneu , ... , v . 0 ... tha ii.!ni
young Jones to the police station. Mr.L,K lA.on .. ... f.i, j
J program: At 10:30 a. in., fifth degree
Reuben Clough of Washington Met with
Obstacles in Barre.
Joseph Bennett of the A. Tomasi block
was arrested by Otlicer Harry Gamble
this forenoon, on a complaint made to
Grand Juror William Wishart, charging
him with having furnished intoxicating
liquor in a manner contrary to the stat
utes. Bennett was brought to police
headquarters, to await arraignment be
fore Magistrate H. W. Scott ,this after
noon. .
Bennett's arrest followed a disclosure
made in city court by Reuben Clough of
Washington, who. has been trying to get
back to his native heath ever since last
Xovember. Remanded to county jail
from Barre citv court in December,
Clough was released Monday morning.
In his second attempt to get back home,
Clough reached Barre and fell from
grace again. Uliiccr Gamble picked him
up (yesterday afternoon and lodged him
in a cell. The man told a sorry tale of
repeated attempts to glimpse once more
the familiar scenes of his boyhood, but
was unmoved when told that the town
had so changed that he would scarcely
recognize it. In court th.e respondent
pleaded guilty to a subsequent offense
and in disclosing told a story that in
volved John Turner, the Green mountain
scout, George Benjamin, a county jail
habitue, who was released yesterday
and Bennett. Liquor purchased in pint
quantities, Clough said, was consumed
in the scrub timber at the south end of
River street, a favorite rendezvous of
the illustrious obscured Judge Scott as
sessed a $15 fine and costs of $6.00, but
Clough decided to go back to jail.
Juvenile Hearing.
Colorful stories of juvenile trickery
were uncovered in city court Monday
afternoon, when Judge Scott resumed
the hearing in the case Of the three
children charged with rifling a money
drawer in Mrs. W. F. Shcpard's milli
nery store. From several stores about
town, clerks were subpoenaed to tell
what they knew of purchases made with
J.' WATSON WEBB
GETS A NFV TRIAL
Five Opinion'-, ere Handed
Down t Opening of
Fe1 Jfdrv Term
B iiisoiiue. ur- meeting. Any wishing to receive the ! money alleged by the authorities to have
Ukmg and most obligation in this degree should qualify t been stolen. Miss Florence Baldwin, who
young man did and prege,lt Alt who are ciear on works in the V. W. Woolworth store,
. 1 1 jv . " iJivtrcns
not seem averse w gomg uome, ana me ,1e wi the npw annuH,
nine oriue saiu: .-ure, near, run aioiiji
86,277 IRISH RECRUITS.
and see the folks and then join ma with
the company later.
MORE "r AIR HAVEN THEFTS.
Alley Were
Store and
Bowling
Entered.
Since War Started and About 100,000
More Are Considered Available.
London, Feb. I. From the outbreak
of, the war to Jan. 8, the recruits raised
by Ireland numbered S6.277, according to
the report of Baron Wimbome, lord lieu
tenant of Ireland, published last- nicht.
Ho estimates that at present there aro alley conducted ny J nomas t. Kotjerts,
about 4I)0.(MK) unattested simile men of Motli on uoerty street, ine onicers De
word at this time. Dinner and social
hour (wholo food).
At 1 :.'!() p. m., meeting open in the
fourth degree. Officers from the follow
ing granges will work the third and
fourth degrees: Master of South Barre
grange, overseer of Cobble Hill grange,
Barre, lecturer from North Randolph
grangp, steward from Williamstown
Fair Haven, Feb. 1. State's Attorney grange, assistant steward from Orange
C. V. Poulin and Deputy Sheriff Pascal j grange, chaplain from Mirror Lake
Kiwi yesterday investigated burglaries j grange, Berlin, Ceres from Hillcrcst
here early in the morning at the store grange, Randolph Center, Pomona from
of V. M. Koutsoneeolis and the bowling .Brookfleld grange, lady assistant stew
ard. Orange grange. This will be loi-
Which Were Sunk By German Submarine
Are Aboard the Appam, But Latter
Has Not Sunk a Ship Since
Being Captured.
Newport News, Feb. 1. The Appam
carries l.Vi survivors of seven ships said
tn have been sunk by the submarine
which took the vessel. Lieutenant Berg
denied that the Appam had sunk any
other ships since the German prize crew
ttok her.
SIGNED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Manager Stallings of Boston Braves Gets
Increased Salary.
Boston, Feb. 1. George T. Stallings
has signed a contract with the new own
ers of the Boston Nationals to liianng-j
the team for five years, it was announced
last night. His salary, considerably in
excess of that which he obtained under
the previous contract, is said to be great
er than that ever paid to any manager
or player, except possibly Manager J. J.
military age in Ireland, but, deducting
those indispensable for agriculture, com
merce and the production of munitions
and those medically unfit for service, he
concludes that the Binglc men actually
available would hardly exceed one hun
dred thousand.
MEXICAN BAND
ATTACKS TRAIN
General Orenealas, Former Villa Lieuten
ant, Reported to Have Been -Killed.
El rao, Feb. 1. A Mexican Central
train which left Juarez Sunday was at
tacked yesterday at Laguna, north of
LITTLE SURPRISE ATTACK.
British Mad a Sortie Against German
Lias at Night.
Indon, Feb. 1. The British official
tatement on ths operations in France
surd last night, says:
"I-t night a party entered the Ger
man trenfhes about the Kemroel Wyts
rlwet road. Thee trenches were foiind
to he full of men. About 40 casualties
were inflicted on the enemy, three prison
ers were t.r"tight bark and two of tiir
rnarVtirie guns were destroyed.
"Ihiring the fy there "has been eon- :
.udemhle arti!l-ry a fivitr rouiv i
curt north of Ixto, aifi i'fili of Will
's erg be-m."
MoGraw of the Giants. It is estimated Chihuahua City, presumably by bandit.
that the figures approximate $20,000 a
year.
CRASHED THROUGH CANOPY.
Man's Body Fell Just After President
Wilson Had Passed.
Oiiraeo. Feb. 1. Shortly after Presi
dent Wilson had passed under a glass
canopy at the entrance to his hotel last
night the body of Edward Ford Johnwm.
n insurance msn of Chicsen, came
crashing down through it. -
Johnson fell or leaped from a room
on the tenth floor. The president's apart
ments were on the third floor.
according to a report sent here by rail
road employes at Chihuahua City.
A number of foreigners were in the
train when it left Juarez.
General Thomas Orenealas. former
Villa commandant at Juarez, who fled to
American territory when Villa sent Gen
eral Medina Vieta to execute him. .was
reported to have been killed in the attack.
lieve the breaks were made by the same
persons who -entered the W. F. Byrne
store at Center Rutland early Sunday
morning, breaking into the postoffice and
doing considerable damage.
In the breaks here the burglars got
away with $tJi0 in cents from the store,
boxes of cigars, candy and fruit,- but
tney overlooked ?.. iu cash which was
in the safe in the Roberts bowing alley.
The safe was not locked. This leads the
officials to believe the work is either that
of amateurs or that the night prowlers
were 1 Tightened away.
lowed by suueestions and discussions
upon the work. The literary program
will consist of music, recitations, papers
and discussions, the subjects to be taken
from the manual. Worthy State Lc
turer Hallett is expected to be present.
ALLEGED SHOOTER RECOVERING.
ENTITLED TO FAIR MONEY.
FOUR YEARS FOR FORGERY.
John A. Ha me I Sentenced at Portland,
Me, Yesterday.
IVrtlnd. Me, Feb. I. John A. Hamrl.
ho i alleged to bare victimize-! whole
sale ship chandlers and grfw.ru alotig the
Atlantic const as fr south as Newport
Nem br means of forjretl ord-r and
BASEBALL LEAGUE SUCCUMBS.
New England League Wound Up Its Af
fairs Last Night,
ISoston. Feb. 1. The
league of baseball clubi
existence last ni-ht, mhen lret-ident
Timothy II. Murnsne adjourned its an
nual meet ire. This meet ing hsd Keen
reconvened several time in an effort to
accomplish a merger with rbihs of the
Eastern aestv-iation, hut j-nimment
aa taken without action.
Opinion generally was in fatnr of t!;
plan, although re-eser.:tive of tlif
Manehest'-r. I"itlitur2 and Lewiftnn
clubs. hirh re not included in the cr-
fpecKs. was rnfeneen ta i;.e snrwTmr je. te.i maodidatmn. enter claims for
roiirt yesterday t. serve from four to mre substantial sttsir-Tt tins had
i't jears ia sUU rr.o lor larzerj, preitously Ui BMBUowd.
Rutland County Society Favored By At
torney General's Opinion.
Brattleboro, Feb. 1. -Attorney General
Herbert (I. Barber to-day notified State
Auditor Graham that in his opinion the
Rutland County Agricultural society is
entitled to a share of the state appro
priation for agricultural fairs. Marshall
.1. Hapgood of Peru had objected on the
ground that the Rutland aif licensed
gambling devices.
The Rutland county state's attorney,
after investigation, reported be could not
substantiate Mr. Hapirood's complaint.
and Attorney General Barber found that
the Rutland fair otlu-uls had complied
with the statute as to affidavits that no
gambling devicm i-ould be licensed. The
appropriation for the other fairs has
New F.ngtand I been held up pending the outcome of Mr.
passed out of i Hapgood's complaint aa to the Rutland
fair.
Frank Colletti's Condition Shows Contin
ued Improvement.
Quincy," Mass., Feb. 1. An inquest is
being held on the death of Mrs.. Jo
sephine Colletti of Hayden street, West
Onincy, who was fatally shot on the
night "of Jan. 20. If Frank Colletti, hus
band of the dead woman, continues to
recover as rapidlv as he has done during
the past week, he will probably be ar
raigned in court before the end of the
present week. The police will charge
him with murder.
Mrs. Colletti was shot three times in
the head back of the right ear and Col
letti himclsf lias a bullet insideh is head
t the present time. When be was
brought to the City hospital the night
of the shooting, it was thought he would
die anv minute. The bulet, however, did
not strike the brain, but followed the
bone of the skull and lodged in the mas
toid bone. The police charge that Col
letti shot his wife and then shot him
self.
It is understood that Colletti's defense
ill be that a third party did the shoot
ing. The shooting was done out doors
in a field near the Colletti bouse on Hay
den street. Colletti and his wife were
walking from the West Quincy railroad
station at the time and bad almost
reached home.
said that one of the girls bought a pock
etbook and candy at the ten-cent count
er. Josephine Colombo, who conducts a
fruit store on Depot square, testified to
selling three girls gum and confection
ery, and Ernest Marchetti, a, clerk at
the Diversi store, told of purchases made
by the youngsters.
Grand Juror William Wishart repre
sented the state under the juvenile act,
and one of the respondents retained E.
K. Davis for counsel. Two vounger girls,
sisters, were disposed to place the bur
den of blame on the third member of
the party. One of the former corrob
orated the statements made by the
clerks and said the expedition wound up
with a theatre party, tickets being pur
chased from a girl styled "The Sleeping
Reauty." In defense of her own off
spring, the mother of one child said her
little girl had been suffering with nerv
ous prostration and for her to have par
ticipated in the stealing was really out
of the question. Magistrate Scott de
cided to hold the ease open, pending good
behavior on the part of the three re-,
spondents, and a continuance until April
29 was entered in consequence.
Five opinions were handed down at the
opening of the February term of Ver
mont supreme court at Montnelier to
day. In the Essex county case of Georgo
L. Hunt vs. Addie B. Davis, E. E. Davis
and George W. Davis, the decree was
affirmed and the cause remanded; opin
ion by Chief Judge Munson. In the
Orange county case in re .F.lrzabeth A.
Hayes, William C. Greenlaw, administra.
tor, Joseph IL Hayes, appellant, and Jo
seph W. Atwood. special administrator,
appeal from probate court, the decreo
was affirmed in part and reversed in
part, by opinion of Justice Haselton.
In the Rutland county case of Augus
ta I. Wilson and Owen E. Williams vs.
Commercial Union Assurance company,
limited, the lower court judgment of
$2,2!19 for the plaintiffs was affirmed.
Mitchell Goslant woji hhs suit against
the town of Culm's in an opinion handed
down by Justice Watson, the Washing
ton county court verdict of $220.70 be
ing affirmed. Goslant sued the town of
Calais on the ground that four horses
rented to the town of Calais were not
returned in as good condition as when
let out.
By opinion rendered by Justice Taylor,
James Watson Webb of Chittenden coun
ty is given a new trial on the charge of
allowing dogs to pursue deer illecrallv.
The judgment and sentence of Chitten
den comity court was set aside, and new
trial ordered.
After court had convened at 10 o'clock
the trial calendar was called and 44 cases
were set for hearing, three were listed
as settled and 17 were continued. The
three eases settled were: Orleans Vounty,
T. Hill vs. C. L. Drown, trover: Cale-1
donia county, John E. Harris vs. AVilliam
E. Bailey, general assumpsit; Windham
oounty, George R. Anderson vs. Benjamin
Brown and H. L. Clark, assumpsit.
Cases Continued.
The following cases were continued:
Rutland county, state of Vermont vs.
Giovanni Marino, murder.
Chittenden county, Old Bee Hive vs.
Bauman fc Sperling, J. W. McAuslan,
trustee; Peter M. Campbell vs. Adolphus
King; Annie E. Auclair vs. Fred Bushy;
Etienne fc Latulip vs. city of Burlington,
negligence j J. H. May vs. S. E. Pope;
Porter Screen Manufacturing company
vs. Central Vermont Railway campany;
Elizabeth Bostford vs. Gilbert Rist.
Franklin county, disbarment proceed
ings against John G. Keenan; Josel '
Brown vs. A. If. Aitkin and Anna M.
Aitkin.
Orango county, Louis Maezolini vs. C.
C. Gifford,
Washington county, Emilv K. Weed
vs. Burton A. Hunt; William Rumble vs.
J. W. McDonald and others.
Orleans county, Charles W. Hitchcock ;
vs. George Kennison; E. A. Kittridge vs.
Fairbanks company.
Windsor county, Mary W. 0 Connor i
vs. v bancs V. Guild.
Windham county, Ethel E. Cutler vs.
Merton A. Doolittle.
CITIZENSHIP MILL
NEW MAPLE SUGAR.
Was Presented For Sale in Brattleboro
Monday.
Is Grinding at Montpelier Federal Build
ing with Judge Howe in Charge.
Indications that the industry of mak
ing citizens is to boom for a couple of
days were to be had this morning when
Judge Harland B. Howe of St. Johnsbury
opened a two days' session of United
States district court for naturalization
purposes in the Montpelier federal build
ing. The court opened at 0 o'clock with
the room crowded with prospective citi
zens and their witnesses. Attorney
Church of Boston is conducting the ex
amination of the applicants for the final
papers and other court officers present
are Clerk Fred S. Piatt of Rutland.
United States Marshal Carpenter of
Brattleboro, Deputy Marshall George
Lackey of Montpelier and Bailiff James
S. Haley of Montpelier.
The following were admitted this fore
noon: lyouis Provost. Graniteville, Can
ada; William Garland, Northfield, Great
Britain; Peter Marchesi, Harre, Italy;
William McK.ee, jr., Montpelier, (Treat
Britain; Carolo Restelli, Muntpelicr,
Switzerland; Alfred Milette, Montpelier,
Italy; Andrea Berganti. Montpelier,
Italy; Krneet Keadet, Montpelier. Can,-
Brattleboro. Feb. 1 .-Joseph Nichols of arta; 'nomas j isagiey, i.raniteville.
West Brattleboro brought to this vil-ft"n","i Axrl ,-r"-kson,. W ehsterville,
lage vesterday some new maple svrup, i Sw'H,pn ; r',,-
the first made in the state this vea'r, so I ""' i;t'K"pn. luasmas T. Maonpaa.
far as known here. Mr. Nichols" tapped j ,va Kainn. ictor Niemi. Palo Kust.
trees on his farm Jan. 26 and had a good f" ,of 'ran.teville and natives of Fin
run of sad land; l.niile ' Tousignat. Graniteville,
Another result of the unusual weather j IVlphis Pare. Robert Guy. Wil-
was the shutting down at noon today of i1"" rraser. Duncan Eraser, all of Grsn-
fbe S A Smith fnanufactnrinfr i'eville and Canada; James L. Riley.
pany s sawm
logs, the conti
vented team
riill because of a shortage of ebsterv ille, Ireland; Otto M..ttab.
ontinued thaw having ,,re. j "'"r Mski, ictor It. Tuominen. all of
isters from hauling logs out I Graniteville and Finland; Alexander
I Campbell, Graniteville. Canada; Frank
of the wood
FUNERAL OF MRS. ELLA OSBORNE
CROSSED GREAT WALL.
ONLY ONE SET SPEECH
To Be Made By Pres. Wilson To-day,
Teat at Des Moines.
Chicago. Feb. 1. President Wi!n left
jllm atro at in of lk this lornirff to
continue his f-eiin lour hi t'ie M'dUe
W"e-t. !! rlnef ! !res to . 1st w i!1 he
at lies Mor es tHi evening, hot en route
' e w ill make ti'ijnher at in e minute
ievi.. frum tie j !t.m f U.e train. lUuUt'i tvf iepwnUEt at I'etrc-jrad. kt in Hoj-e eeartery.
W. Scott. Graniteville. Canada; Ira llen-
ru Tarney. Welisterv ille, Canada; Cos
imo Sellitti. Graniteville. Italy; Matli
Airtda. Graniteville and Finland.
At 4 o'clock Clerk I'lstt will he in tlx
Barre city court room to receive applica
tion for the aecord papers and grant
applications for the first.
FLOOD PREDICTION
Was Held at the Home of a Daughter
Yesterday Afternoon
Funeral service for Mrs. Ella (.sborne,
wife of the late William Osborne, whose
death Saturday morning at the home of
her daughter. Mrs. Fred Brink of 21
li . 1 i .1! -l . I,nr.nr; . M- I
were keM "at the home of . j r Low Mississippi Wss Made Ty (K
wcateer Bureau.
Washmi-ton. D. C, Feb. I.-H1
fie in the biwer M eis-r i. e-pr H
irg anv m-ord-i in it rears, wee
hate , rosse-l the fr-t wall of China and were: iVn H. Hi-hop. William Flack--f U-J l't teg' t hy t!- wrater !
C.e adtaaee gnar-1 of 2.f is heeiejm 1 more. S. drier Ki.'d and .J..hn Verroe . ieu.
the ity of ltumfa. a.s rlfe to a d:- Tbre were a imb-T f fine f,.ral tr b-' A !! arn-rr t-.- ;i.- f
.atb from -Mvit Jen forvaroe-1 hy to Di. lTt-rn?-t aa wale in the re esrept , J!j I . 5i wat.-rs from i ka-
Chinsse Insurgents Are Now Besieging j daughter. Mm. Rirhard Vercoe, 4 Warr. n
Datnirfa streei. .-uop'iav nimsn 11 i o rif.A.
" i Her. V.. V. Newell, pastor of the Hedd.na
Ixidn. Feb. I. Monjr!ian insurgents i M-tbr!ist church, offii istinc. Thehrerj
. .. .1 . I. .t- 1 a, ii-, i. ... , (. - . .1 .
S-ur to tue rttt SbovtL.
