The Leading Paper
of Western
Nebraska
VOLUME XXIII
imntantiv nrinuo
ilAnmuNi nciuiio
BUTTE DEMOCRATIC MEETING
William Mitchell Re-elected County Chairman and John O'Keefe Sec
retary of County Organization. Resolutions Passed Endors
ing Administration and Candidates. Stirring Speeches
Are Made by Number of Democrats
DEMOCRATIC VICTORY IS PREDICTED AT FALL ELECTION
Box Butte county will go demo
cratic at the fal lelectlon by a large
majority, if the enthusiasm t-liown at
the meeting of the Box Butte County
Democratic central commit 're, held
at the court house in Alliance Satur
day afternoon, continues tl::oughout
the campaign and it will. The as
sembly room in the court house was
well filled when the meeting was
caled to ordler at 1 o'clock by Wll-i
liam Mitchell, chairman. Delegates
were present from every precinct in
the county.
A committee of three was appoint
ed on credentials, consisting of Rob
ert Graham, J. W. Guthrie and John
Jelinek. The resolutions committee
consisted of John C. Morrow, C. A.
Burlew and John Kinsella. The re
port of the committee on credentials
was adopted.
The report of the committee on
resolutions was as follows:
Resolutions
The Democratic party of Box Butte
county. In convention assembled, re
news its fealty to, and its faith in,
the great and fundamental principles
of the party of Jefferson, of Jackson
and of Wilson.
We heartily endorse the platform
adopted by the Democratic National
Convention at St. Louis.
The tariff law, income tax law, re
serve banking law, rural credits law,
federal trades commission and anti
trust law, passed by this administra
tion, mark it as the greatest con
structive administration this country
has ever had. When the shipping bill
and workmen's compensation act,
now on the program, are passed,
Democrats have reason to be proud
of the achievements of their party.
These laws are in the interest and
welfare of the great producing class
of our country, and are in sharp con
trast with legislation in faTor of the
exploiting clans, as' was the role of
republican legislation.
Owing to the Btrong and able lead
ership of Woodrow Wilson, tbis coun
try is at peace, and our people pros
perous and contented, notwithstand
ing the fact that the civilised world
is passing through the greatest cat
aclysm of history, and that the very
foundations of civilization are shak
en. The affairs of our country are
in stronsr and safe, hands, and we in
vit all cood citizens, regardless of
party,. to. acquaint . .the.mejye8 withJ
the acntevements 01 ue
party and its declarations or princi
ples, .nd to help us maintain these
conditions and continue these prin
ciples. Patriotism should arise above
partismship in these precarious
times. The president, who has guid
ed our destinies so well, who typi
fies the truest and best Americanism,
and who has maintained the dignity
and hc nor of the country in the face
of the greatest difficulties since the
administration of the imuortal Lin
coln, should receive the support of a
gratefnl yeople.
We heartily enoorse me mwu .
cock. He has ever been alert in ine
interest erf his constituents. The
amendments he secured to many bills
were always in the Interest of his
people. We -earnestly commend him
for th" amendments secured to the
Reserve Act in favor of the farmers
and stockinet of the country. He i
one of the most influential of tb.i
great legislative body, and the r -
pie of Nebrasaa are to oe ronrwiu-
. . . 1 .... t . i rv a . Vl 1 ' r.int'i' Ullt4.ll 1
iaieu un ut-iiif, '; .- ........
We urge an ueruocruiH m inn iun
their best efforta to seen ins n
election. We commend ard i" ;ore the ef
ficient and businens-liVe a .Ministra
tion of Governor M.-i.-.-hi-ad and thi
Iemocratic stale ticerr. We tak
particular pride in ttio record of ef
ficiency and ecmo y of our friend
and neighbor. Hi no- b'e Charles W.
Pool, secretary of -state.
We commend to the people of the
ronntv the exeellent and rert-eseniH-
ine exceiiem aim r i enenin-
tiye strte .nd county ticket noi-'nat-
ed at the primaries by the Democrat-
lc voters
Keith Neville, for governor, is
. o. oio.,., - .. . . .... - , nem uiiuer ner right arm and the fan , he national prohibition convention
ability a man who w.ll continue the-,. iy Ul)(ler ,ler wn tiidp wnB the 1 1 ere this afternoon,
present business methods of Cover-, tthau.auqua ticket aa in her belt.! l!anly receivi '0 vo-ej against
nor Morehead. ' The skull was not broken or crushed . 1 i to. U rn. Su'zev. former 'v.i nor
Ldgar Howard that P'on'-er of ! Hll(1 (lt,uh aJI)eund lo have beeII . , N(.,v ork r.arest 0men ,
progressive thought and Intellectual , causH(, by coru UKtlioll ol the brain , Thfl cnvt.ntl , leiume(1
giant should receive the vote of ev- M rs. Bignell is survived by her, shortly after 10 o'clock today and af
er farmer ,n Nebraska for listen- 80n Jop Hghteen years of age. who , ter a brief discussion adopted the
.-.r l.....-! . 1. 1-. ..-.. liii.il miaa
urn ,.,....;..
develop:iient of the water power of
our stream's by the state for the peo
ple of the state, should meet the ap
proval of every man in Nebraska not
interested in exploiting these natural
resources.
A nominating committee was ap-
pointed for the selection of delegates
t.f the state convention at Hastings
on Tuesday. This committee con-
si3ei or J. v alo,ru"' V ,u"""i
adi pted and the following were elect
ed delegates to the state convention:
William Mitchell
John O'Keefe, II
Robert Graham,
E. Gantz. P. H.
Zobel.
The election of a permanent chair-
(Continued on last page)
The Alliance Herald
READ BY EVERY MEMBER NEBRASKA STOCK GROWERS ASSOCIATION. ALL THE NEWS OF ALLIANCE AND WESTERN NEBRASKA
OFFICIAL ORGAN NEBRASKA VOLUNTEER FIREMEN'S ASSOCIATION. IT REACHES HEADQUARTERS FOR 15,000 FIREMEN
r
at nnv
hi dua
MRS. BIGNELL
KILLED BY FALL
lYomiueut Alliance Woman Killed at
F,ijlit O'clock Tuesday Night
by Kali Down Stairs
body found wkdxkkdav a. m.
Funeral to lie Held t Two O'clock
Friday Afternoon from First
Presbyterian llmiih
Mrs. William Bignell was killed at
8 o'clock Tuesday evening by falling
down the cellar stairs of the Bignell
residence at 618 Box Butte avenue.
The body was not found until 5:30
o'clock Wednesday morning, when it
was discovered by Mr. Bignell.
At 8 o'clock Tuesday evening Mr.
and Mrs. Bienell were seated on the
front porch of the residence, ready to
go to the evening Chautauqua pro
gram. She had her sofa pillow and
fan. Rising sudenly, as though hav
ing forgotten something, she entered
the house and went to the kitchen,
carrying the fan and pillow with her,
the pillow under her right arm and
the fan in her left hand.
At the same time Mr. Bignell
stepped to the sidewalk to speak to
James Hunter, who was passing. Re
turning the the house he missed Mrs.
Bignell and stepped back to the kit
chen, looking for her. Ho noticed
that the hook on the rear screen door
was unfastened. Mrs. Bignell was a
great friend of Mrs. G. A. Newberry,
whose home is ou Laramie avenue,
directly west of the Bignell residence.
Mrs. Bignell visited often at the New
Derry home-anff Treaally-wentout-"the
back door, it being much closer. See
ing the rear door unfastened. Mr
Bignell hunted no further but pre
sumed that she had stepped over to
me iewberry home for a short chat.
After waiting a few minutes he went
down town, going to the .Eagles club,
where he stayed until nearly 11
o'clock.
Returning home about 11, Mr. Big
nell noticed that she had not return
ed and presumed tha.t she was still at
the Chiiiitauqua lent! where he sup
posed she had gone. He went into
the bedrom of the son Joe, and lay
uown on ine -bed with his clothing on
intending to rest there until her re
turn before retiring.
wr. Bignell went to sleep and did
not awaken until 5:31 o'clock Wed
nesday morning, when he was called
uj it-jcymMie iioui ine raucn. .He an-
uwored the call and then looked for a
mutch, noting that he had his cloth
ing ou and that he had not been
awakened by Mra. iiig.ieLL Not find
ing a match in the dining roura he
stepped into the kitchen mu then in
U) ,ne ,,.tiit.. lle noticed that the
i trap door iu the pauiry was open and
glancing io the bottom of tfi stairs,
was lio.-rioed to see 'he holy of his
wife lying (here. He ran io the bot
tom or the iiaini. found uiat life was
go .., and then can tfi Lu telephone,
tviiing the Newberry isi.ience. Bolli
ir. and Mrs. Xewbei . blurted imm
diate.y for ilu Ut::f! t home. On ar
rival liieiv tiny nund Mr. Bigiiell
frantic. Mr. Xcv, b. rs v mllel rr
single, county coroner, who came al
. . . . . . . . . ...
om-, . in fllS arrival ine oody was
.cu rrie I to a bed upntairn.
Tiie Iran door i. il... ht...
.UJ-Miis the klu-lien, oi t unit s luosi of
Jm pantry floor and is directly in
i':ont of the door. From the posi- j
ti(n of the body anJ its appearance it 1
is presumed that Mia. Bignell had
stepped info the pan try in the dark-'
ness, not remeiuberinn or noticing
that the trap door was open. She
haJ evidently fallen head first down
tn,, fitai1B( 8triking one of the steps
near tlie
i no-i r ilm ki.itnn, .... i
head and then falling on b-r left,
si(le. Death evidently came at once. 1
j lor there were no evidences of a
truiige. The sofa pillow was still
' .
i was oil ine mum 11 limine m rmu h l
(Continued from first pitge) Bv a risinn vote the convention in-
the time of her death; her husband; ! eluded in the platform E. W. Chaf
D. H. Badsley. a brother, who is an I in's plank endorsing the iniative. ref
eiigineer at Birmingham. Alabama; ' erendutu and recall.
and a h.iff-sister. Mrs. William Mit
chell of Alliance. Mrs. Mitchell was
in the Black Hills at the time of the
I aruident ani wa ,eiegraphed for at
olu. BrriVng today. John Bignell
j of ijHievue. Nebr., a brother of Wm'
; Bignell. arrived today. Mr. Badsley
was unable to come.
Mrs. Bignell was an acii .j and j
W0rrrnVriVeasur:rtohAemcT,;'
Mis.ioh Board, and a member of the
First Presbyterian church. The fsm- i
ny nave been residents of western
(Contlnued on last page)
ALLIANCE, BOX BUTTE COUNTY, NEBRASKA, THURSDAY, JULY 27,
,..ur ..
'the campaign is on
''pvrwhl
SERIOUS PRAIRIE FIRE
Fire, Starting; at 1 O'clock This Af
ternoon, Covered More Tluui
Section of Ground
prairie fire, starting at 1 o'clock
this afternoon, directly east of Alli
ance near the Burlington railroad,
burned a strip two miles long and a
half mile wide before it was stopped
by nearly a hundred brave Ore fight
ers, ine ore went aireeuy ror tne
Powell Jesse ranch at first, and was
prevented from burning the buildings
by about seven men who fought val
iantly and kept it from the buildings,
although it went around them on
both sides.
The fire continued northwest, up
the hay valley towards the Ferdinar
Seidler ranch, which would have
boon destroyed had it not been stop -
ped. A call for assistance was sent
into Alliance and about twenty-five;
members of the Alliance fire depart-.
ment responded, making the trip t!Dr. Maxfleld's car but for an unfor-
the scene of the fire in record-break-
rngttme In autos. People living infThe car had steadily gained on the
the vicinity gathered until there were j
nearly one hundred woraing in gangs,
The damage consists of about 600
acres burned over, 300 of which are
hay land, and several stacks of prair
ie hay which were destroyed. At the
time of going to press, watcherB are
still at the scene of the fire to prevent
it breaking out again.
CHANGE Al PLAYGROUND
riu ground JSuporviMtr Crawford An
nounces tliange 'in Schedule of
Hour Tell Clilludren
ducted the Junior Chautauqua dur-
The Alliance tity idayground sup- n the past week, assisted In the or
ervisor desires ro announce a change ganization 0f the League
of schedule of hours. In the monv ; Mitis Josephine Hampton, an ac-
ings from to 11 at Central scbool
ground. In the afternoons will be i'who has been assisting Miss Dunn
conducted at the city park as nsua9 j during the Chautauqua, has been
for those who care to come between placed In charge of the League and
the hours of 2 and 6. However, oa jjjl take charge durinsr the balance
account of the extreme heat it is 0f the summer. Miss Hampton is
thought that only the larger children ; wt.j fitted and capable for this work
and those Interested In baseball, etc.. .Hn( win continue in charge cntil she
should be advised to come in the af-, returns to her school duties at Los
lernoon. Evening play will be sun- Angeles this fafl.
ervlsed from 7 until S, at the city ; The sessions of the League will be
park. held at the library, on the lawn, at 3
A complete line of brand m w ;0'rtoek Tuesday and Friday after,
games will be tan.ht the children ' fg of eftrn weelt. All Alliance
and the pl;ty will b po conducted 'J iPhndren are invited to attend. Miss
tn make it safe for all children to oe jiampton will be assisted by the corn
present., jmittee appointed Vy the Woman's
A story-telling le&sv.e has been re- club, consisting of Mesdames Nellie
cently formed which will be vondnct-! Wilson, W. W. Norton, A. T. Lunn
ed by a number of hf'ien t the city mj R. Pate,
library on Mondays. Tuesdays. Fri- j
aB " naiuraajs. ironi - i V ,.
rhis is in co-operation with tbc play-
ground movement.
GOV, HANLY NOMINATED
Prohibition Party'H Piatfonn Stards
for Peace, Prohibition and
Woman Suffrage
St. Paul. Minn.'. July 21 Frank
wi farmer cmvemr.r. r indimm.
f was nominated for president of the
! I niled States on the first ballot of
n'l'tforvi without lerions ovnesition.
Names of the new members of the
new national committee were pre
Miued and confirmed.
No'ulnation of presidential ond
vice presidential rondidates was the
next business in order.
Nouiinatinif sneeches were limited
to ten minutes and seconding speech-
es to five minutes.
M "J
Sumner ,,ayne began his speech
nominating J. Frank Hanly, former
governor of Indiana. At the
con-
I
(Continued next week)
BU1CK LEAD 'EM ALI
Dr.
J. V. Mavlield's Slx-C) Under
Itulck Ktudly llan Ahead of
IinjMirted Racing Car
More than two thousand people at
tended the auto races Wednesday at
the Alliance fair grounds. Six high
powered racing cars, driven by ex
perienced racing drivers, and Dr. J.
P. Maxfleld's six-cylinder Bulck racer
furnished the entertainment.
The fact that the Alliance track Is
only a half-mile track prevented any
speed records but furnished plenty of
thrills when the big cars Bkidded
around the sharp turns. In the first
Tace the Bulck, driven by King Reilly
of Oshkosh, an expert driver, crash
ed through the north fenre out was
brought back on the track nearly as
quick as it went through, and finish
ej the race in good form.
The last race was a fifteen-mile
event and would have been won by
tunate accident lnt the third mile.
others until it was nearly a quarter
of a mile in the lead when it threw
'the right rear tire, necessitating its
removal fro mthe race.
FOR LITTLE FOLKS
Mis JoscjiKme Hampton Will Have
lliarge or Story Telling leugiie
During JhmnneK .41oiitfis "
A Story-Telling League for the
children was organised Tuesday night
under the auspices of the Alliance
Woman's Club. Miss Dunn of the
Standard Chautauqua, who has con-
; romnlished Alliance youn woman
; Tl.c Weather for Tlie Wet-k
j p. v. Hicks, official weather ob-
server, reported the following for th
past week:
July
Maximum
Minimum
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
99 56
98 53
rr
94 52
95 60
94 68
98 65
A Close Hull (lunir
Th Alliance baseball team played
the Bridgeport team a fast game of
ball last Sunday, losing the game to
the tune of 4 to 5. And It took hard
work on the part of the umpire, who
was from the river flats, to win th
game for Bridgeport. Whaley pitch
ed for Alliance, shutting out four
teen. He Is certainly showing some
form.
Tn game next Sunday will be
played at Sidney.
Fund for the Hospital
Plans for raising the necessary
funds to complete the erection of St.
Joseph's hospital were made at the
meeting held in the Comn-ercial Club
room last Thursday evening. About
ten thousand dollars are needed to
complete the building. Officers of
the building association are R. M.
Hampton, president; J. W. Guthrie,
secretary; H. A. Copsey. treasurer.
The officers, with C. A. Newberry and
C. E. Slagle. form the executive com
mittee. A publicity committee was
appointed, consisting of Ira E. Tash,
Lloyd C. Thomas and A. D. Rodgera.
A committee of ten will be appointed
soon for the purpose of doing the
necessary work in soliciting funds.
1910
OUTLOOK BRIGHT FOR
DEMOCRATIC VICTORY
Big Crowd Attended Democratic State Convention Held at HastinM
on Tuesday of This Week. Harmony and Enthusiasm Were
Prevalent. Letter Read from President Wilson to
National Committeeman Arthur Mullen
GOV. MOREHEAD TOLD OF NEBRASKA DEMOCRATIC RECORD
(By .lolm W. Thomas,
REPUBLICANS MET
LASTJPSDAY
Itox Hut to County Republican Central
Committee Held Meeting iu
Court. House July SO
KN I M )HS 1 3 A fiL Til 10 CA N DID ATI S
Margraves Fleeted Chairman and
Metas Hocretary of County
Organization
The annual meeting of the Box
Butte County Republican Central
Committee was held at the court
house In Alliance Thursday after
noon, July 20. Delegates were pres
ent from the different precincts over
the county and speeches were made
by a number of those present.
The following officers were elect
ed: Chairman M. S. Hargraves.
Secretary W. R. Mets.
Treasurer F. M. Knight.
The following were elected to serve
as members of the central committee
from the different county precincts:
Running Water To be filled.
Dorsey Alex Mulrhead.
Lawn Joseph Wanek.
Liberty Chnrles Moravek.
Nonpareil Floyd Trine.
Box Butte Herbert Nason.
Boyd To be filled.
Lake K. P. Sweeney.
Wright W. J. Johnson.
Snake Creek K. M Banks.
First Ward, Alliance B. J. ShI-
lttWB.
Second Ward, Alliance To be fill
ed. 1
. Third Ward, Alliance W. R. Motx.
Fourth Ward, Alliance E. D. Mal
lery. Delegates to the state convention
at Lincoln on Tuesday were elected
s follows: W. R. Harper, K. L.
Pierce. E. J). Mallery, W. R. Met.
Lee Basye.
The following report of the com
mittee on resolutions was accepted '
and adopted:
IteHoliiiionx
- d It resolved hy tbft. Republican
voters of Box Butte County, Nebras
ka, In delegnte convention assem
bled: -j
Itiat we endorse most heartily the
platform adopted by the Republican;
National Convention in Chicago, with convention. As an Introduction to
its ringing demands for national pre-1 hl3 .""J!8' he, tbanked h jemo
paredness and undiluted American- "ata of Nebraska for their almost
ism, Its insistence upon a return to ' unanimous vote given him at the last
the protective principle in tariff leg- Primary, for delegate at large to the
islatton and its clear cut and well ' democratic national convention As
considered declarations upon the oth-; ho mentioned in the courso of his re
pp questions of national interest. I ,nark th" naI""8 of Prominent dem
Tht w li.ir ih r-oiir. nn r. ocnits. they were roundly cheered.
wed by the present national admin
Iteration. Its weak and ever-chang-:
Ing foreign policy has caused need-1
less sacrifice of American lives and
property. Its attitude has been such
that Amerlcaas outside the borders
of our own country have boon without
protection. It has lost for the Unit
ed States the respect and admiration
of foreign nations and foreign peo
ples. Its domestic policies have been
built upon fals economic, theories.
Its domestic legislation has been
characterized by an unprecedented
display of pork politics in nbwluie
disregard of the nation's welfare. i
That we pledge our hearty support
to Charles E. Hughes and Charles ',a "ur' '.euiK ur.e.,, lue
W. Fairbanks, the candidates or re-' work j ,.h" Prtfsvt democratic nat
unlted Republieani-m for president lol!al administration, and placing par
and vice president of ihe nation: to tlcular stress on the larg- amount of
Abraham L. Sutton, our cand! late valuabl-. constructive legislation
for governor of the state of N bras- i passed by congress and approved by
. .. President Wilson, legislation valua-
(Continued on last page)
WAS GRAND SUCCESS-
. . . ..... . ... ..for time in which to make an ad-
( luuitatniua Cl.ed MedneMbn lgbt dregB wfts a hig befjt , BUmmlnK up
low-He Crowd Filled IJi ; the work of the two terms of his ad
Tent All the Week 'ministration, lie presented some sta-
tlstlcs showing the large savings that
Alliance's Chautauqua, conducted had been mad to the tax pryers ,of
by the Standard Lyceum A,- Cliuutau-.Nebraska by the present democratic
qua SyBtun of Lincoln, closed Wed- administration as compared with the
i.esday ninht. Kveiy day of the six ; proreding republican administrations,
from Fri lay until Wednesday, was a; The committee on resolutions, con
good day, and it would have been ' git,linK 0f oue member at large and
hard for a better program to haveone for each of the six congressional
been selected. I districts, was composed as follows:
iVatuix-d oi oi.. vUi i.; oi dut iu : Harry Fleharty, Omaha, chairman;
the six days were The PI; yers and j, w. Cutrlght, Lincoln, first dist
SingerB Club on Sunday, with Dr. L. ;rict; A. F. Mullen. Omaha, second
B. Wlckersham. (Hi Monday, The , district; Julius Haas. Norfolk, third
Kilties, the world famous band, en- district; Earl Marvin, Beatrice,
tertalned laige crowds both afternoon f,,urth diatrict; Ward Newcomb, Clay
and evening. J. Coates Lockhart. c.mter, fifth district; J. G. Beeler.
the tenor, was the most popular fea- xorth Platte, sixth district,
ture of the band and at both pro- Tjie report of the committee on
grams was compelled to respond to resolutions, constituting the platform
encores until he was exhausted. He nf thc democrats of Nebraska for
is Canada's greatest tenor and is one ,hl campaign, was adopted by the
of the fines singers ever heard in convention at the night session. It
Alliance. , will be printed in a subsequent issue
Before the close of the week, con- nf pj,e Herald.
tracts w ere signed by local business
men with the Standard Chautauqua' Misses Mabel and Frances Grass
Company for next year. This will man left Sunday noon for Platts
assure the same high-class entertain- mouth, Omaha und other eastern
ment in 1917 that has been enjoyed points to visit with friends and rela
by Alliance people this year. ' tlves for a couple of weeks.
5,000 Copies
34 Pages
Two Sections
NUMBER 34
Editor of The Herald)
ine most enthusiastic
democratic
state convention ever held in Nebras
ka, and the most harmonious that .
has been held in recent years, was
that at Hastings on Tuesday of this
week.
Sometimes It transpires that there
Is harmony in a political convention
because there is not enough interest
to create a discord, but that was not
the case. The attendance was large,
the Interest was keen, there were dif
ferences on some things but there
was also a disposition manifested on
all sides to let the majority rule, and
as a result the convention goes into
history as one of the most harmoni
ous of any political party ever held
In Nebraska.
Soon after the convention had been
called to order, National Committee
man Arthur Mullen read the follow
ing letter from President Wilson:
"My dear Mr. Mullen: 1 hope that
this letter will reach you in time to
convey to the state convention, whrch
Is to meet at Hastings on the 25th,
my warm greetings and my cordial
best wishes for a harmonious and en
thusiastic meeting. There never was
a time when the democratic party had
a greater opportunity to serve the
country than now, and td serve It
with thoughtfulness and devotion.
Cordially and sincerely yours,
WOODROW WILSON."
The convention was held In the
large Chautauqua pavilion in beauti
ful Prospect park, west of the city of
Hastings.
Prior to the calling of the conven
tion to order, the band played patri
otic and popular airs, and the assem
bled delegates sang and cheered var
ious candidates and democratic lead
ers. Shortly after 2 o'clock State Chair
man W, 11. Thompson came onto the
platform, followed by United States '
Senator Gilbert M. Hitchcock, Gover
nor John 11. Morehead and others.
They were given a reception by hand
clapping and cheering.
Rev. J. D. Grosz, pastor of the Ger
man Congregational church of Hast
ings, made the opening invocation.
City Councilman A. J. Van Every,
who is democratic nominee for state
representative, made a hit with the
convention, la i losing a cordial ad
drtco -of -wvlco.ii.e... by promising that
Adams county wlli roll up a - diuno-v
cratlc majority next November.
Chairman Thompson, "The Little
Giant of Grand Island," addressed the
the cll'rax coming when he referred
to William J. Bryan.
Mr. Thompson Introduced the elo
quent Merlon u Corey who was
chairman of the democratic state
convention two years ago. He was
made cha,,maii of this convention.
His sjn-e. h. while only one of a num
ber of fxc-ll.Mit addresses, may be
called the "kfyaote of thn conven
tion." Among many other trite ex
pressions made by Mr. Corey in his
speech, he M'oke of President Wilson
In the following sentence. "America's
n-'!!" ?res' i ver t today will be the
world's pea,;e maker of tomorrow."
Senator Hitchcock made a splen-
1 hie to the people of the nation as a
whole rather than the co t para lively
, few that may be termed the special
Interests.
' Governor Morehead, aHho pressed
