VOL LVIII. NO. 179
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., THURSDAY, JULY 27, 1916
TEN PAGES 80 COLUMNS
PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the. City's Population
POZIERE
Have Strengthened Their Position by Capture of
Strong Trenches West of the Village
BRITISH PAUSE BEFORE
Other Than at Estress Little Fighting Has Taken Place on the
French Front In the Volhynia Sector the Russians Are
Keeping Up Their Attack on the Teutonic Allies The
Turks Have Evacuated Erzingan, in Turkish Armenia,
and the Russians Are in Possession of That Important
Strategic Point German Admiralty Asserts That a Ger
man Submarine Had Twice Torpedoed a British Dread
nought Off the Orkney Islands, Scotland, But the British
Admiralty Meets the Claim With a Denial.
With the village of Fozieres com
pleted a dapparently selurely in their
bands and having strengthened their
ji".-Kion there tiy the capture of two
strong: trenches west of the village,
tne British troops seemingly are rest
ing before attempting to again throw
their forces against the Germans who
are blocking their advance toward Ba
paume. Wednesday saw only isolated
artillery duels and here and there
rharp local infantry attacks along the
entire British front in France, where
f ir several weeks sanguinary encount
ers had been engaged in almost con
tin nously.
To the south of the Somme the
French have been enabled to record
another success for their arms in the
taking of a fortified house, together
wi'h some prisoners southeast of the
village, of Estrees. Except in the
Champagne, where the artillery of both
eides was engaged in somewhat violent
nations, little fighting took place on
the remainder of the French front.
In the Volhynia sector the Russians
nro keeping up energetically their press
against the Teutonic allies in the
Hi' n.-vka river region and also are at
t:" king the Teutons in north Galicia,
r-T I'rody. In the Slonevka district
I'"tingrad says the Teutons are meet-in-'
with heavy casualties and that
siv re than 4,000 men and five guns and
OFFICIAL REPORT ON KILLING
OF LIEUT.-0OL. BUTLER
Was Victim of Harpy Spannell, a Jeal
ous Husband,
Pan Antonio, Texas. July 21. The
(fTi.'inl report on the killing of Ueu
t' mint Colonel M. C. Butler of Al-r-
n, Texas, Inst week by Harry Span
mil, completely clears the name of the
deid officer.
The report transmitted to General
Funston today by Coionel J. A. Gas
ton, district commander with head
quarters at Marfa, says that Colonel
liutler was aware, that Spannell was
jealous of his wife and took care never
to be with her except when others
were ipresent.
The immediate incident that led to
the killing of the armv officer and Mrs.
Spannell is described in the report.
Colonel Gaston, who hurried to Alpine
immediately following word of the
shooting, says that Colonel and Mrs.
Putler and Mr. and Mrs. Spannell had
gone to the home of a friend who was
ill and on their return to the hotel
where all lived, it wis suggested that
everyone, as a precaution, should wash
their hands. Colonel Gaston says that
shortly after this Spannell went to the
Butlers' room and finding apparently
only Colonel Bntler and Mrs. Spannell
there, began to upbraid his wife. At
this point, however, Mrs. Butler came
out of the bathroom and pointed out
to him that she was one of the party.
Soon after Spannell took the col
onel and Mrs. Spannell on the ride
)hat ended in their being killed.
BRANDEIS STILL LEADER
OF AMERICAN ZIONISM
Has Not Resigned as Honorary Chair
man of Provisional Committee.
N'ew Tork, July 26. Associate Jus
tice Louis D. Brandeis of the United
States supreme court has not resign
ed as honorary chairman of the pro
visional committee for General Zion
ist Affairs and retains his leadership
of American Zionism, the American
Jewi.sh Chronicle announced tonight.
The publication asserted also that "it
is understood he resicned his other
positions only on account of the tact
less behavior of some of his oppo
nents," at a conference held here two
weeks ago.
ARMY OFFICERS AND MEN
WATCH BOXING MATCH
Regimental Champions Meet in Make
shift Arena in Mexico.
Field Headquarters In Mexico, July
.26. Fifteen hundred officers and men
of the punitive expedition Jammed In
to a makeshift arena last night to
watch by starlight tbfirty-slx rounds
of lusty boxing by regimental cham
pions. In the midst of the program a non
descript negro quartette announced
from the darkness of the arena they
wanted to sing and were given the
etage between bouts. They sang Dixie
and Sally and The Flag and similar
airs.
Movement! of Steamehip.
Genoa, July 14. Arrived, steamer
Dante Alehlerl, 'New York,
New York, July 28. Sailed, steamer
Frederik VHT.vCopenhagen.
Genoa, July 24., Arrived, steamer
Italia, New York,
'Bergen, July 24 Arrived, steamer
Krietianiafjord, N&w-'York,
Liverpool. July 24. Bailed, steamer
pamerojiiaiNew'.Yprk,
Nw;YDrk.Ju!y'2fi-SalIfii. steamer
S VILLAGE
TISH
FOLLOWING ADVANTAGE
six machine guns and quantities of
munitions have been captured by the
Russians.
The Petrograd and Berlin commun
ications are at variance concerning the
results of fighting that has taken place
near Riga and in the vicinity of Bar
anovichi. Petrograd claims the re
pulse of an offensive by Field Marshal
von Hindenburg's men near Riga,
while Berlin asserts that the Ger
mans penetrated Russian advanced po
sitions there and destroyed them.
Likewise Petrograd claims a slight
gain for the Russians near Baranovi
chi, while Berlin declares that strong
Russian attacks in this vicinity were
put down with heavy casualties by the
Germans.
The Turks have evacuated Erzingan,
in Turkish Armenia, and the Russians
are in possession of this important
strategic point The reports of the
evacuation have not mentioned as j'et
whether the Turks in their retreat
were able to take away in the face of
the rapid Russian advance the guns
and stores in Erzingan.
The German admiralty asserts that
a German submarine twice torpedoed
a British dreadnought off Orkney Is
lands, Scotland. July 20, but the Brit
ish admiralty says the vessel attack
ed was a small auxiliary and that it
was not hit.
11 BODIES REMAIN IN
WATERWORKS TUNNEL
May Not Be Recovered for a Week
Gas Still Pouring In.
Cleveland. Ohio. July 26. The bod
ies of 11 men entombed in the West
Side water works tunnel may not be
recovered for a week as a result of
investigations today which establish
ed that gas continues to pour into the
tunnel and that there is great danger
of a second explosion wrecking the
tunnel and the outer crib.
L. M. Jones, federal mine expert,
and a party, made six trips into the
tunnel this afternoon and declared
that the deadly gas is so thick in the
tunnel that further rescue work should
not be attempted until the flow is
stopped. It Is believed that the gas
explosion of Monday night which
trapped the tunnel workers and took
a toll of twenty-one lives opened up
a gas well in the bed of the lake.
Forty men quit work at Crib No. 5
and 100 left Crib No. 4 today as a
result of the report of the investiga
tors; it being feared that gas from
the outer crib tunnel has seeped
through into the part of the tunnel ex
tending from Crib No. 4.
INSPECTION OF CAMPS
OF NATIONAL GUARDSMEN
To Ascertain Conditions Under Which
the Men Are Living.
El Paso, Texas, July 26. Inspection
of the camps of the 25,000 national
guardsmen on station here was begun
today by Major General Tasker H.
Bliss for Ihe purpose of ascertaining
the conditions under which the men
are living. He paid particular atten
tion to reports that some of the
guardsmen- are disgruntled with bor
der duty and urged the organization
commanders to place as liberal con
struction on the recent orders releas
ing guardsmen who have dependent
relatives, as the military exigencies
permit.
"The spirit of these national guards
men all along the border is excellent,"
he said. "While- It is hot and dusty
sometimes, exaggerated reports have
been spread concerning their priva
tions, which in reality are negligible."
General Bliss added that the num
ber of guardsmen who could be sent
home under the orders would still
leave an ample number of men under
arms in the United States to cope
with any possible emergency.
VILLA WITH 30 MEN IN
CANON DE LAS HUEHTAS
His Followers Are Scattered Through
the Foothills of the Sierras,
Chihuahua City, Mexico, July 26.
Villa, with about thirty men, Is In the
Canon de las Huertas, near 1 Paso
de Penoles, Durango, aceordinff to des
patches from General Ramos, sent by
courier to Mapaml and telegraphed to
General Trevlno today. Callxto Con
treras, his chief lieutenant, whose
death recently was reported from
Mexico Clty deserted Immediately af
ter the Parral light and made his way
southeast with one-half v of the men
who attacked that oity, aooordlng to
the despatches.
It was reported that the Villa fol
lowers we scattered through the foot
hills of the Slerraa In small bands.
Paralysis Case tn North Haven, "
; gforth Hayen,. PonnM JuJy28,A.case
0f .Infantile paralysis (Jeyetope4, tqsJay
in ' tha Mudcjy Rivep digtrfejt, eight
years oiq. xuajepun jjea ttjeing smpKen
wiin ineiaiseaae. Tnera axf
Cabled Paragraphs
Civil Lord of British Admiralty.
London, July 26, 8.36 p. m. The
Earl of Ljrtton has been appointed
civil lord of the admiralty replacing
the Duke of Devonshire who has been
designated governor-general of Canada.
Fourth German War Loan Paid in Cash
(Berlin, July 26 (By Wireless to Say
ville). The fourth German war loan
has been paid fully In cash. Money
borrowed from loan banks on collateral
for the war loan totals only 6 per cent,
of the entire amount of the loan.
German Steamer Sunk.
London, July 26, 10.46 p. m. A Stet
tin despatch to Reuters says that the
German steamer Norderney, bound
from Sweden to Germany and laden
with iron ore, has been sunk north of
Aroona, Kuger Island. The cap
tain and three of the crew were drown
ed. Y. M. C. A. WORK ALONG
THE MEXICAN BORDER
Approximately $500,000 Will Be Re
quired $110,000 Has Been Contrib
uted. New York, July 26. Approximately
S500.000 will be required for the work
of the army and navy department of
the Young Men's Christian association
among the troops along the Mexican
border, it 'as announced tonight.
More than $110,000 already has been
contributed. Forty buildings will be
needed, each of which will cost from
$2,000 to $2,500 to erect, and equip.
Gifts thus far received include $50.
000 from the Rockefeller Foundation,
$10,000 each from Cleveland H. Dodge,
Mrs. Finley J. Shepard, Willi im
Sloane and E. S. Harkness and $5,onn
each from George W. Perkins and
Mrs. Russell Sage.
PROBABLE PURCHASE OF
DANISH WEST INDIES
Nothing is Known Officially of Trans
fer in St. Thomas.
St. Thomas, D. W. I.. July 26.
Nothing is known here officially con
cerning the probable purchase of the
Danish West Indies by the United
States from Denmark, but the news
that negotiations for the transfer of
the islands have virtually been com
pleted caused no surprise, persistent
rumors of the probable transfer of the
islands having been received of late.
Probably due to the reluctance of
Danish capitalists to invest more
money for improving and maintain
ing the islands, conditions daily have
been becoming more unsatisfactory.
St. Thomas is threatened with bank
ruptcy, the harbor trade, its prin
cipal support, being almost dead. St.
Croix is facing a social revolution, fol
lowing agitation by laborers for
higher wages and better living condi
tions. Public sentiment in St. Thomas is
divided over the question of the
transfer of the islands, the lower
classes of the people being the more
desirous for a change.
WERE NEW YORK BANKS
CONSULTED BEFORE BOYCOTT?
British Foreign Office Declines to
Either Confirm or Deny Story. '
London, July 26, 7.16 p. m. The
foreign trade department of the for
eign office declines either to confirm
or deny the story printed here today
to the effect that New York banks
were consulted by the British officials
before the blacklist was published.
Unofficially, it is admitted that It
is possible some such steps may have
been taken, but the department here
directly concerned has no knowledge
of such negotiations. Steps al
ready are being taken here by t"? for
eign trade department to consult di
rectly with a number of firms on the
list in an effort to secure their re
moval. The government is anxious to
expedite such inquiries and de
clares that no obstacles will be plac
ed in the way of any firm desiring to
prove Its innocense.
BRITISH REVIEW OF
NATIONAL EDUCATION
Proposition Made in House of Lords
by Marquis of Crewe.
London, July 26, 7.06 p. m. The
Marquis of Crewe announced in the
house of lords this evening that the
government proposed to appoint a
committee to review the whole field
of national education.
This announcement Is the outcome
of strong agitation to overhaul the ed
ucational system of the nation in
view of the defects revealed In the
course of the war and with the object
of meeting German competition In
various fields of research in which
Great Britain hitherto has been out
distanced. THREATS TO EXTEND
YONKERS' STREET CAR STRIKE
To Surface, Elevated and Subway
Lines of Greater New York.
New York, July 2ff. Threats to ex
tend the street car strike which start
in Yonkers a few days ago to all the
surface, elevated and subway lines
of Greater New York, If necessary to
win the demands of the men, were
made tonight by William B. Fitzger
ald, international organizer of the car
men's union.
NO REPORT OF THE
EXCLUSION OF MR. M'CLURE
Ias Heaehed the State Department at
Washington.
Washington, July 26. No report of
the exclusion of Mr, MoClure had
reached the state department today.
Acting Secretary Polk sold he had
heard nothing about the case since the
announcement yesterday that Mr. Mc
Clure, after being detained, had been
released on representations by Ambas
sador Page.
JO I RECTOR 8PEAKER8' BUREAU
OP REP. NAT. COMMITTEE
Ralph D, Cool of Flndlay, Ohio, Has
Been Appointed,
New York, July 26.-Ralph D, Oboi
Of SFindJay, Ohio, haa been.- appointed
ftireptor of the speakers bureau of
fftV republican, - national f committee, it
WasannQnncerttpnIgnt i by Chairman
JViilcpiE ot thefcommittee. Mr, Cool
was counsel' to ?ths -.comptroller of the
fargencyf- during -.the -Taft admlnls-
British Blacklist
Injures Americans
BELIEF OF STATE DEPARTMENT
OFFICIALS IN WASHINGTON
PROTEST IS COMPLETE
A Communication Discussing the Prin
ciples Involved Will be Sent to Lon
don Probably Within the Next Few
Days.
Washington, July 26. President Wil
son and state department ' ollicials
virtually have completed preparation
of a protest against the promulgation
of a blacklist of American firms under
the British Trading with the Enemy
Act. It was said today that the com
munication would be sent to London
probably within the next few days. It
will discuss the principles involved and
will not interfere with the continuance
of informal discussions of the repre
sentatives of the two governments of
the cases of individual firms included
in the blacklist.
Injures American Firms.
State department officials believe
that their study of the blacklist has
proved that it injures American firms
in violation of international law.
Acting Secretary Polk talked over
with President Wilson today facts
laid before him by the firms affected
and the precedents on which ' the
United States will act.
Issue Will be Taken Up With Allied
Nations.
When the priciples involved are tak
en up with the British government it
is expecter that the issue also will be
taken with France, Russia and Italy.
It is understood here that in announc
ing its blacklist Great Britain really
acted in deference to her allies, who
felt that their own merchants were
suffering and some British merchants
were profiting through failure of the
London government to follow the lead
of the continental powers in making
indiscriminate war upon those located
in neutral countries as well as those
resident in Germany and Austria Hun
gary. INCREASED PAY FOR ARMY
OFFICERS AND MEN
Provided For in Amendments to the
Army Appropriation Bill.
Washington, July 26. Increased pay
for officers and men of the regular
army and national guard in active ser
vice for the Mexican emergency, im
proved camp conditions to safeguard
their health and authorization for
them to vote in the field at the com
ing presidential election were provid
ed in amendments to the army appro
priation bill agreed to today by the
senate.
By a vote of 44 to 13 the seriate also
suspoYided the rules to adopt an
amendment changing the age minimum
lor enlistment in the regular army
from IS to' 21 years without the con
sent of parent or guardian. Under the
provision boys under 21 now serving in
the army would not bo retained in tho
service unless they filed within 30 days
tho written consent of their parents
or guardians. The amendment was
adopted without a roll call.
Senator Heed of Missouri offered an
amendment which would make the ex
isting provision for increased pay to
the army when in service on foreign
soil apply also to service on tho Mexi
can border. Under it officers will re
ceive a 10 per cent, and cnilsted men
20 por cent. Increase in pay, Jn adopt
ing it the senata also increased the
house appropriation for pay from $1,
030,000 to $14,178,240
Tho amendment giving soldlora tn
the Mexican service authority to vote
in the field at national elections passed
without opposition. As ft safeguard to
tho health of the soldiers an amend
ment was a.-loptod appropriating $250,
000 for tho construction of wooden
floorw and screens in troop tents along
the border. The houso Appropriation
of $5,000,000 for pmall arms was ap
proved despite appeal by tho military
committee to cut it to $2,500,000 and
tho senate again voted tr etaln the
house provision prohibiting Installa
tion of ficieutlfic Hpeedlng up systems
in government work. An amendment
to fltriko out the latter provision wan
defeated yesterday but was reintro
duced by Senator Oallingcr.
Tho bill la expected to pnss tomor
row. SERIES OF CONFERENCES
ON NAVAL BILL
To Bo Held by President Wlloon and
House Navnl Committee Members,
Washington, July 2(3. President
Wilson will begin tomorrow a (series of
conferences with members ef tha house
noval committee in an effort to obtain
acceptance by house conferees of the
biff building programme put into the
naval bill by the senate, It Is under
stood he will oxereltie all of hie influ
ence to overcome opposition to the
enormous ecnate Increases.
Chairman Padgett and Representa
tives Talbot and. Estoplnal, ranking
majority members of the committee,
already Rummonod today to talk over
the subject with the president tomor
row morning before the house meets
to select Its conferees. Later Mr. Wil
son will see other committee mem
bers, republicans as well as democrats,
making a personal appeal for retention
of the building provisions authorized
by the senate.
Secretary Daniels made a visit to
the capltol during the day to see Mr.
Padgett regarding the status of the
measure and prospects for early action.
He was assured that democratic lead
ers were prepared to meet any further
attempts to delay It and would force It
Into conference tomorrow.
DROPPED DEAD WHILE
REPAIRING AN ENGINE
Joseph Englexbe Died In Plant of the
Eleotric Cable Co Bridgeport.
Bridgeport, Conn., July SB.-Joseph
Englexbe, about 50 years old, of Bound
Brook, N. J., dropped; dead at the
plant of the Electric Ca.ble company
here this mpjjijng while 'repairing an
engine "for the mpricatn Bali Engine
company of Bound Brpak, Official in
quiry isipeiggf conducted itpsdetermiHe
whether 'he was e4efgtjocuted. or died
from natucaLfaiisa' '"
Clearance Papers
For Deutschland
TO SAIL FOR BERLIN OR ANY
OTHER PORT IN GERMANY
DEPARTURE INDEFINITE
Any Hour Now the Submarine May
Dart Down Chesapeake Bay to Make
a Dash for the Open Sea Through
the Virginia Capes.
Baltimore, Md.. July 26. The Ger
man submarine liner 'Deutschland to
day was cleared by her commander,
Captain .Paul Koenig, for "Bremen or
any other port in Germany." Any
hour now the vessel may start down
Chesapeake Bay, prepared to make a
dash for the open sea through the Vir
ginia capes and the -guard of allied
warships off tho three mile limit.
Secrecy Surrounds Plans.
Secrecy surrounds the plans of Cap
tain Koenig. After securing his
clearance papers at the custom house
he said in reply to questions asked
for the benefit of the Maryland Pilots'
association, that the exact time of his
departure was indefinite. Tonight he
had made no arrangements for a pilot,
but he can secure one almost imme
ditely at any time he desires.
Manifest is Withheld.
Information that clearance papers
would be secured later in the day
was conveyed to the custom house
and the office of the clearance clerk
was kept open for Captain Koenig,
who arrived shortly before four o'clock
with Captain Hinsch of the North
Germani Lloyd liner Neckar. After
the usual formalities, the. commander
of the submarine requested that his
manifest which he had filed be with
held from publication "for a reasona
ble time."
Collector of the Port Ryan commu
nicated with the treasury department
at Washington and then Informed
Captain Koenig that his request would
be granted. Consequently the car
go was described officially as being
composed of general merchandise.
At 1 a. m. there were no indications
that the submarine Deutschland was
preparing to leave her slip.
Says She Will Not Sail for a Week.
Baltimore, Md., July 26. Carl A.
Luederitz, German consul here, said
tonight that the merchant submarine
Deutschland would not leave for a
week. When asked why her departure
was further delayed after clearance
papers had been taken out, the con
sul would vouchsafe no explanation.
MOONSHINER FOUND SERVING
AS SCOUT FOR PERSHING
Fled to Mexico While Under a $20,000
Bond Tells of Year of Torture.
Columbus, N. M., July 26. Guy
Hartman, wanted by federal authori
ties In Fort Smith, Ark., in connec
tion with alleged "moonshine"'
whiskey frauds and who has been
serving as a scout in Mexico with Gen
eral Pershing's forces under the name
of Guy Johnson, today admitted his
identity and said he was anxious to
waive extradition and return for
trial, according to army officials.
Captain Louis J. Van Schack of the
army Intelligence bureau here said tho
prisoner confessed that he had fled to
Mexico while under a $20,000 bond to
appear for trial May 21. 1915. He said
ho lefi Fort Smith in May shortly be
fore tho dato sot for his trial.
Hartman, It was said, told a sory
of a year's suffering from mental tor
ture through constant fear of detec
tion. In telling it, he revealed, how
ever, that although a fugitive from
justice his patriotism was greater than
hi a fenr nnd as a result ho offered his
services to General Pershing, Army
officers assort that Hartman has
been one of the most valuable scouts
attached to the, expeditionary force,
At military headquarters It was an
nounced that ho had made a state
ment which follows In part:
"From Fort' Smith I went to Jua
rez, Mexico, and from there to Chi
huahua, whore I remained but three
days, leaving for Temosachlo, Chi
huahua, where I secured work on tho
Aeklen rr.nch, I stayed on this
ranch from Juno, IBIS, until March,
lSlfi. until VllllBtns (showed up In that
territory find with other ranch hands
1 was compelled to flee,
"We remained In hiding1 in tho
mountains until tho morning of April
11, when news reached tin that Amer
ican troops were in Mexico, I de
termined to do what I could and on
the following morning I made my way
Into the American eamp and volun
teered my services 0.9 a meeut. I con
tinued with that organisation until I
was taken ill ten days, ago and tho
army physicians ordered ma to Co
lumbus for treatment, At tha her
der I wan tftken into custody,"
N. G. LIEUTENANTS TO
GO WITH REGULARS
War Department Authorizes General
Funnton to Carry Out Suggestion
San Antonio, Texas, July 26. Gen
eral Funston today received authori
zation from the war department to
carry out his recent suggestion that
second lieutenants of the national
guard be detailed for service with the
regular army, which under the regu
lation, Is "without officers of this grade.
It is estimated that an average of
three second lieutenants will be draft
ed from each national guard regiment.
General Funston had two things In
mind in suggesting his plan. One was
to remedy the lack of second lieuten
ants in the army and the other to af
ford practice for the guard officers.
The men detailed to this service -will
have only temporary status, but it Is
thought possible some may be regu
larly commissioned later.
DENIAL THAT BRITISH
DREADNOUGHT WAS 8UNK.
A Small Auxiliary Was Attacked Off
Coast of Scotland, But Was Not Hit.
Ivondon, Jujy 26, 7.45 p. m.--With
reference to the German statement
that a submarine had torpedoed a
Britisll dreadnought off the Orkney
Islands 'July 20, the British admiralty
stated that tho actual facts were as
fellQwe;
"A.PRjaU auxiliary off the north
S5a,Ht,Jo.fycotlarirt was attacked by an
eijemyji supmarmg n : she : date men
Condensed Telegrams
The British steamer Inveran is
ashore off center Moriches, liong Island.
The body of Jacob Schmutz, of Pat
erson, N. J., was found in the Passaic
River.
Dr. Emelyn H. Marsteiler, for 30
years a surgeon in the United States
Navy, Is dead.
Max Piratsky of New York was
drowned while swimming at Manhat
tan Beach Point.
Arthur Eiler, 14, of Staten Island,
was killed In a taxicab wreck at New
Dorp, Staten Island.
The execution of Roger Casement
has been set for August 3, in Penton
ville Prison, London.
The Prince Edward Island schooner
Ulva is a total loss on Cape Tomentine
Reef, where she struck.
President Wilson has decided to re
main In Washington, no matter how
late Congress is in session.
Grace Washburn, a moving picture
star was severly injured in an automo
bile accident at Long Island.
The Aspin, a steamship bound for
Trespassy Bay, went ashore off the
Newfoundland coast, but was floated.
Formtion of college militia organ
izations into an officer's reserve corps
is proposed by the War Department.
The German classes of 1917 and
1918 will be called to the colors, short
ly. The draft may be applied any day.
Mario Tricolo, 4, was instantly killed
by an electric car at Atwells Avenue
and America Street, Providence, R. I.
Misses Alice and Ada Morrison and
Cora Bradt, of Buskirk, Mass., were
drowned while swimming in the Hoosac
river.
The three-masted schooner Harold
B. Cousins, of Portland, Me., was re
ported ashore on Seal Island, St. John,
N. B.
The report is current in Berlin that
a body of Turkish troops will soon be
fighting in Galicia against the Rus
sians. Members of President Wilson's cab
inet are preparing to go into Maine late
in August to take part in the cam
paign. It was decided at a meeting of the
Greek Cabinet that the Chamber of
Deputies would be dissolved early in
August.
The New York State reapportion
ment act was declared unconstitution
al by unanimous opinion of the Court
of Appeals.
The British freight steamship Tyne,
which struck on the Muiar ledges near
Grand Manan, N. B., was reported to
be breaking up.
One ease of infantile paralysis was
reported at Hebron yesterday. A sus
pected case Is under observation In the
town of Columbia.
Five persons were drowned near
Sunrise, Wyo., when an automobile In
which they were riding was swept
away by a cloudburst.
The largest reflecting telescope mir
ror in the world is ready for installa
tion at the Carnegie Observatory, on
Mount Wilson, near Los Angeles.
Samuol Gompora, president of the
American Federation of Labor, an
nounced plans for the formation of a
Pan-American Labor Federtalon.
A deolalon was handed down In the
Court of Appeals In London sustain
ing tha right of Sir Edward Speyer
to membership in the Privy Council.
Owing to the shortage of labor, the
Norwegian government Is planning to
Induce young Norwegians who emi
grated to America to return to the
fatherland.
Tho demobilization of the Greek
army in accordance with the rules set
down by the Entente Powers, was fin
ally completed. Reservists have been
sent home.
Tho annual report of the New York
Chamber of Commerce shows that for
the third time that port has passed the
$2,000,000 mark In total of exports
and Imports.
Tho oaptnln and orew of alx of the
American schooner Virginia Rulon,
which sank 40 miles o(T Capo Hatteras,
have been brought to port by the
steamship Santa Clara.
At tho mooting of tha Dutoh Ship
owners' Association held at The
Hague, a resolution was passed pro
testing agalnet the gelssuro of sixty
Ashing boats by the British.
President Wilson elgned an executive
order providing for free quarters, free
fuel and eleetrlo current to employes
of the Panama Canal, Panama Rail
road Co. and the Isthmus of Panama,
Charles Qreenborg, of New York, a
detective for a private agency, was
sentenced to elx months in Jail for
trylnsr to pick the pockets of a pas
senger on a Third Avenue surface car.
The Committee on Library of the
House of Representatives has ordered
a favorable report on the Fitzgerald
bill to erect a monument to Captain
John Ericson, Inventor of the Monitor.
Col. Louis D. Cortley, ex-commander
of the 69th regiment applied to Col.
Simpson, adjutant-general of the De
partment of tho East, at Governor's
Island, for another physical examina
tion. A Pageant depicting the entry of
the Mormons into Utah sixty years
ago, and into Mexico in 1884, was pre
sented before General Pershing and his
staff at Oolonia, Juarez by tha Mor
mon colony.
President WFIson told a delegation
representing the New York State Fair
Assooiatiqn that he w-ould net at this
time say whether he will be able to'
accept the Invitation to be at the fair
in September.
Milwaukee Free Press Advances Price.
'Mitawaukee, Wis, July 28. The Mil
waukee Free Press, a morning news
paper Ihere, today announced an ad
vance , from one to twp cents in the
price oi the paper for street sales. It
tributes the advance to the greatly
in,tej cost of print "paper. The
cha"nge4ggrtcewlll be Effective -Aug. - 7.
GRAFT CHARGES AGAINST N. Y. POLICE
One of the Deputy Police Commissioners Named by a
Witness at the Investigation
SENSATIONAL REVELATIONS EXPECTED SOON
A Former "Stool Pigeon" of Detective William J. Enright,
Indicted Commander of the Vice Squad, Made a nAfn
davit That While in Enright's Employ He Had Collected
Tribute From Keepers of Questionable Resorts After
His Arrest on a Charge of Extortion the Man Was Told
Not to be Afraid, to Keep His Mouth Shut and the De
tective and Commissioner Would Get Him Out.
New Tork, July 26. One of New
York's deputy police commissioners
was named by a witness today in Dis
trict Attorney Swann's investigation of
grafting by members of the police
"vice squad." Several policemen al
ready have been indicted upon evi
dence supplied by underworld charac
ters, and District Attorney Swann de
clared tonight he expected even more
sensational revelations.
The name of the deputy police com
missioner w-as drag-ged into the case by
Max Turkowitz, known to his inti
mates as Max Pimple, a former "stool
pigeon for Detective vvuliam J. Ivn
right, indicted commander of the
"vice squad." Turkowitz made an af
fidavit that while employed by En
right he collected tribute from keep
ers of questionable resorts. He was
arrested late last June on a charge of
extortion. A few days later he was
visited in jail by Detective David J.
Foley, a co-worker with Enright and
also under indictment. In his affidavit
Turkowitz quoted Foley as having said
to him:
"Enright went down to Commission
er and asked him if he would
be allowed to testify for you as a wit
ness, and the commissioner said 'Yes.'
Do you need some money? No? Well,
don't be afraid. We'll get you out.
Keep your mouth shut. Enright and I
will testify for you and we'll have the
complainants held for perjury the
deputy commissioner said we could do
it."
Subsequently, while on his way to
court in the custody of detectives,
Turkowitz was accosted "by Enright
and Foley, he asserted in his affidavit.
Enright "handed bfnVa" sum of money
and Foley reiterated his pledge of as
sistance. This incident is said by the
district attorney to have led to the
investigation now in progress.
Turkowitz pleaded guilty to the ex
EXCITING SCENE IN
HOUSE OF COMMONS
Indicative of Strong Feeling Which
Prevails Among Irish Members.
London, July 26, 9.15 p. m. An ex
citing scene. Indicative of tho strong
feeling which prevails among tho Irish
members, took place in the house of
commons tonight when Timothy Healy
charged the government with arresting
2,000 innocent persons In the course of
the Irish rebellion and treating them
with a cruelty and ferocity which even
Germany had not shown In Belgium.
The home secretary, he added, by his
administration, had started the Sinn
Fein organization in Ireland and there
fore was father of the movement.
The speaker here called Healy to or
der for Irrelevance but did not refuse
the request of Herbert L. Samuel, tho
homo secretary, for permission to reply
to the charges made by Healy, Secre
tary Samuel characterized Healy's
charges as utterly unfounded and de
nied vigorously that prisoners had been
ill-treated or placed in solitary con
finement as alleged, The homo secre
tary said ho would leave the house to
judge tho valuo of Healy's allegations.
FRENCH TROOPS FAILED
TO FOLLOW COMMANDER.
Germans Refrained from Firing When
They Saw Officer's Predicament.
Berlin, July 28 (By Wireless to Say
ville). .A correspondent of the Lokai
Anzeigev at the front in the Argonne
is quoted in an Overseas News agency
statement today regarding an Incident
that occurred In the fighting in that
region,
"A French officer," says the report,
"commanded to attack the German
Chasseurs, cried 'En Avant' and jumped
from his trench, He had advanced
several steps When he saw that no one
was following him. The Germans re
frained from firing. Then the French
officer, after waiting alone for a short
llmo, saluted the German trench with
his sword and returned, as if deeply
chagrined, to his own trench."
DEMOCRATIC ORATORS
TO BE SENT TO MAINE
Thirty Members of Congress and Fif
teen Other Speakers.
New York, July 26. Thirty mem
bers of congress and fifteen other dem
ocratic orators will be sent into Maine
for the campaign in that state, but not
until after August 20, unless congress
adjourns before that date, it was an
nounced at democratic national head
quarters here today. Fifteen of the
congressmen selected are senators and
one of the first to enter the state will
be Senator Ollie James of Kentucky.
NIGHT WATCHMAN CRUSHED
TO DEATH BY AN ELEVATOR
While Making His Rounds of a Factory
in New Britain,
New Britain, Conn., July 2S. Ernest
Baeder, aged 54, night watchman at a
local factory, wa.s crusbed to death by
an elevator tonight while making his
rounds of the building, The body was
found by another watchman who start
ed to search for him when Baeder's
time clock did not register.
Red Cross Supplies for State Troops.
New Haven, Conn., July 26. The
Red Cross local branch sent forward
today to the Texas bgrder stations
various supplies for' the' soldiers there.
particularly' those' from."- this state. ", .
tortion charge today and was released
on a suspended sentence. His story
to Mr. Swann was the most important
development of the day in the inquiry
which is now in full swing. Neajy a
dozen witnesses were examined.
SNUBS CAUSED NEW YORK
DETECTIVE TO SHOOT HIMSEI.F.
Had Testified Against Roman Catholic
Clergyman in Wire Tapping Case. ;
New York, July 26. "Snubs" to
which he and his family had been sub
jected because of his testimony
against Roman Catholic clergymen,
rather than fear of the results of a
second test of his efficiency as a tele
phone eavesdropper, was the reason .
given in an ante-mortem statement to-!
night by Detective John Kennel, chief!
of the police "wire tapping equad," for
his attempt at suicide today by shoot
ing. His physicians say there is little
hope for his recovery.
Kennel had "listened in" on the tele
phone wires of Monsignor John J.
Dunn, chancellor of the Roman Cath
olic diocese of New York, and Rev.
William B. Farrell, who are involved
in the charges. He testified last Thurs
day at a hearing before Supreme Court
Justice Greenbaum that he had re
corded "phonograms" of their conver
sations. In one of these conversations
Monsignor Dunn and Father Farrell
were alleged to have offered Rev. Dr.
Daniel C. Potter money to leave the
state. Dr. Potter was wanted as a
witness at the charities inquiry.
Justice Greenbaum permitted Ken
nel to be subjected to a test of his
proficiency in recording telephonic con
versations and later pronounced the
test a failure. Kennel was to have
had another opportunity to prove his
proficiency today.
PECULIAR FEATURES OF DEATH
OF MISS ELIZABETH RADCLIFFE
Due to a Bungling Attempt to Peform
an Illegal Operation.
Olney, Ills., July 26. An explana
tion of the circumstances to which is
attributed the death of Miss Elizabeth
Radcliffe near here late Friday night,
was given today by H. G. Morris,
state's attorney, after he had been
asked to explain the peculiar fea
tures of the case.
Because of the girl's death, Roy
Hinterliter is awaiting action by the
November grand jury. He was held
without bail after the verdict of the
coroner's Jury yesterday.
Tho death of Miss Radcliffe, it is
claimed by the state's attorney, wm
due to a bungling attempt to perform
an illegal operation. Air bubbles, ft
is claimed, entered the circulatory sys
tem of the young girl and when they
reached the heart or brain, death must
have resulted.
State's Attorney Morris today gave
out a statement explaining the path
ological features of the case.
Stating that the autopsy showed that
the girl was in a delicate" condition,
the prosecutor added: "There were
no exterior marks of violence. Three
experienced surgons found all organs
perfectly normal."
"In cutting into the right ventricle"
he continued, "air escaped. The heart
was perfectly healthy. When the
surgeons removed the top of the skull,
they noticed bubbles of air. All
blood vessels of the brain showed air
ciculations. There were no structur
al changes but on a test the brain
floated in water. There was no lesion
of the lungs.
"Eater i.t was discovered that a
man threw away an instrument used
in illegal operations while going to
the sanitarium. It was found. The
man had boasted previously using
such instruments.'1
The prosecutor has letters said to
have been written by Hinterliter to
the girl. ' .
ALLIED CRUISER WATCHING i
FOR ARRIVAL OF BREMEN.!
Believed to Be Standing Off Beaufort
Inlet, Coast of North Carolina. '
Beaufort, N. C, July 20. At Iest,'
one cruiser of the allied powers waa.
believed to be standing off Beaufort
inlent tonight in an attempt to pre
vent the entrance of the German sub
marine merchantman Bremen, now due
at an American port after a voyage
similar to that made by her sister
ship, the Deutschland,
It was rumored today that the
Bremen might arrive here tonight,
DANBURY QUARANTINE AGAINST
NEW HAVEN CHILDREN;
Even if Accompanied by Certificate of-'
Health,
Daiibury, Conn.4 July ze-.-rHealth Of.
flcep George E. . Lemmer issued an or
der toay for a strict quarantine
against all children from Xew Haven
under" 15 years of age. Children from
that city will not be allowed to enter
or pass through Dan bury, even Jf ac
companied by certificates of health.
The "order went into effect immediately
Engine Tender Killed at Cede-? Hil'
New Haven, Conn., July. 26.T-Josept r
Franko, c'6, engine tender, tts rail-
road yards in Cedar Hill, ' was iatsse&.l;
today.' " Eater h'isT mangled' ba -K wa -
found on the tracks.;"" ..J.
