V-
t
TFINANCI-AL E-DITION
fEeiger
NIGHT
EXTRA
uenmn
NIGH'T
EXTRA-
VOL. n. NO. 271
r PRICE ONii 'OSfe'
PIIILAJDELPIirA, TnUKSDAY, JULY 271910.
Contiani, 1010, at tnc Potto Ltooia Courairf.
i
ft.'
If"
I .
,-
5"
I
&
c.
fl
r1'
QT
KV
to
E-
ENGLISH HOLD
NEW GROUND AS
FRENCH SCORE
Haig's Men in Close En
counters With
Germans
CONSOLIDATE GAINS
WHILE PRESSING FOE
Joffre's Forces Advance
South of omrae and
K on Meuse
SLAVS PURSUING TURKS
What Great War Has
Cost All Belligerents
Great Ilrltnln (Including colo
nic) 1113,000,000,000
Delictum (mostly ndrnnccd lir
Alllet) COO, 000. 000
rrnnre B.SOO.OOO.OOO
lliioaln, 11,000,000.000
Serbia .110,000,000
Itnlr . , I.noo.ooo.ooo
l'ortiirnl 100,000,000
Montrnuro 10,000,000
Japan Hllnht
Tola, Entente Alllea 30,tKIO,000.000
Germany , ,$12,000,000,000
Aiintrln-IIuninrr 0,000,000.000
lliilrnrla IISO.000,000
Turker '. 000,000,000
Total, Central Powers.
.1118,780,000,000
Grand total S,7 10,000,000
Developments of great Importance
are foreshadowed in the situation on
tho three fronts where large operations
aro now in progress.
On the Somme front, whero the Brit
ish have established themselves at
Pozicrcs, penetrating the third line of
Gcrmnn defenses, feverish preparations
arc being pushed in expectation of the
heaviest counter-attack the Teutons
Jiavo yet delivered since the commence
ment of the big Anglo-French drive.
Tho British are now occupying a most
favorable position, the ground from
Pozieres to Bapaume constituting for
tho most part a low plain with hardly
any ridges intervening. Pozierea" is
also tho key to the Albert Ridge, form
ing tho Inst line of powerful defenses
guarding Bapaume, the immediato ob-
jcqtivo of tho, British troops.
That tho British, drive has succeeded
in relieving the French at Verdun is
evidenced in the virtual cessation of
German infantry attacks on the Meuse
line and the continued transfer of large
masses of Teuton troops and artillery
from that front to the Somme. Thi3
h enabled thj French to move for
v nid their positions west of Thiaumont.
Tht French have also gained ground
south of tho Somme, the Paris War
Office reported today.
British elation nt the continued Anglo-French
successes on the Sommo
front is coupled with the satisfaction
generally felt because of the frankness
and definite language of tho War Of
fice statements. This has become true
since the assumption by tLloyd George
of the war portfolio. Contrary to the
late Lord Kitchener's reticenco on the
progress of military events, a policy of
copious reports and open discussion has
been adopted by his successor.
Heavy rains are impeding tho prog
ress of the Russian drive into northern
Galicia. The Styr, Stokhod and Lipa
Rivers are swollen over their banks and
the sticky marshes hedging the Stok
hod, in particular, have been rendered
even moro impassable. Russian forces
are battling against the elements as
well, as against the Teutons, but are
steadily forcing onward. Brody is har
assed on two sides by a Russian bat
tering ram which is gradually crush
ing the resistance of General Boehm
Ermolli's Austrians.
On the extreme north GeneraLKuro
patkin's forces are successfully re
pulsing furious assaults by General
von Hindenburg, inflicting heavy losses
on the Teutonic columns.
The victoridus armies of Grand Duke
Nicholas are pushing three separate
drives into Asia Minor, determined not
to give the fleeing Turks any respite.
The Russians are advancing in three
directions southward toward the Bag-
Continued on Fate StTen, Column Two
THE WEATHER
A
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Gen-,
trally fair and continued warm and
humid ionigh and Friday; gentle, vari
able winds, t
I.KNQTH OF DAY.
Sua rlne 4.51 a. m (Moon rlaea... 3:23 a.m.
bus acta .... 7.19 p.m,llooa aoutha 10.14 a.m.
tfKIAWABE niVEU TIDE CHANGES,
CHESTNUT STKEBT.
Low water. . U.JO e.ra.lLow water.. 6:30 p.m.
Ilutb water.. 11.12 a.m.lwa water
I tomorrow .11:13 a.m.
TKMrKltVTUUK AT EACH HOUR.
.. ;i . i iTln iil n t " i i
76l'79ISQI 81l'S5T"Sal 861 So- I
A i
I.OST AND FOUND
lUN'G LadVa fancy diamond and platinum rlnx
lot from automobile between Ucrmaiuown
Cricket Club and CM lAut Dak. Lan. U
Eaat Halnea atreet Liberal reward tf re
turned to C W Afeurjf Qk lne fa
MNO laat on Friday Juw Si pesri ftsg,
wltn liUuwnil on each Wj. ISO zeward. W.
' &&iWm2v.it . v sBb
J0 BMffifvfMwpaFft I
'saaS fsTfsrflalfli
friKum.-mjmtv-hii.itfiJwsj
cw&y&v&rr&mi
. - : i
JftJJVi&Ws&'S-JHft W
GENERAL TASKER H. BLISS
Assistant Chief of Staff, United
States Army, who is today inspect
ing tho Pennsylvania troops at El
Paso with a view of correcting any
evils thnt mny bo found in the
division administration.
BLISS AT EL PASO
STARTS TO SLASH
RED TAPE TANGLE
U. S. Commander Inspects
Pennsylvania Troops and'
Will Correct Errors
ROW OVER FOOD ORDERS
Temperaturo in the tents of tho
Pennsylvania guardsmen encamped out
side of El Paso was 71 at 8 a. m.
(Philadelphia time). At the same hour
tho temperature in Philadelphia was
74.
By CARL L. ZEISBERG
Evening Ledger Btaff Correspondent.
EL PASO, Tex., July 27. The first con
crete step In tho organization of the Penn
sylvania division on a regular United States
army basis came today when Company F,
of tho Fourth Pennsylvania Infantry, was
transferred to tho engineers, becoming Com
pany C of the first complete engineering
battalion of the division. A major will bu
appointed to command the battalion, of
which Captain R. B. Fuller, of Scranton,
now Is In charge. Company C Is command
ed by Captain James W. Archibald, of
Pottsvllle. .
At the eame time ihe War Department,
which ordered .the shift, authorized the
State of Pennsylvania to recruit men to
All the ranks of the Fourth Regiment's
missing company. Further similar changes
probably will come, for It Is understood
that the rounding out of the division will
be accomplished by recruiting for Infantry
ml S3, assistant chief of staff of the War
Continued on Pose Four, Column Tbrto
AVIATOR OFF TO SHORE
WITH EVENING LEDGERS
Youthful Flyer Leaves for At
lantic City on Proposed
Air Route
B. Kenneth Jaqulth, an aviator, 23 years
old, who Is planning to Inaugurate an air
line passenger service between Philadelphia
and Atlantic City, began his first flight at
11:32 o'clock this morning from the Phlla.
delphla School of Aviation at Ksslngton.
Ha expects to reach. Atlantic City at a
height of 8000 feet and from that distance
will order his lunch from the Traymore
Hotel and make rihe first deliveries of the
Evenino Ledger and Public Ledger by
aeroplane.
The luncheon order will be contained In
an envelope weighted with theLedgers and
tied with string. It will be-his first effort
to drop the package In the sun parlor of
thehotel. The order will call for cante
loupe, steak and mushrooms, Traymore
salad, asparagus, French pastry and demi
tasse, all to be served ''in the grill room at
1 o'clock." The envelope is addressed to
O'eorge F. Kerr, assistant manager of the
hotel
Leaving Esslngton in the "Bess," pur
chased by Jifqulth's father, a wealthy Chi
cago man, for J7600. from Robert Qlendln
nlng, president of the aviation school,
Jaqulth remained close to the surface of
the Delaware River for the first 15 miles.
After that he began an ascent with ttvs
hope of ultimately beating the flying boat
aJtltuda record of 8000 feet. He planned to
strike across by way of Capd May after
reach ng the mouth of the Delaware Bay,
a distance of 140 miles, which he Intends
covering in two hours. '
Jaqultiu despite bis youth, has made 3000
successful flights, all la the United States.
He made tho first trip from Atlantic City
to New York last fall with a paBjeoger in
record time HJa brother, Somera B. Ja
qulth. who returned two month ago from
France, where he waa badly woundeg while
sarving with the French aero -corp4. Is to
enter with htm Jn establ shins -halr in9
btfwn PblUdelphU aad y maaV fesatt,
mi ni:ijr'i kK7 "j
'?
U. S. WILL SEIZE
U-BOAT ENEMIES
BREAKING RULES
No Protest on First Offense,
but Deutschland Will
Be Protected
SHORE PATROL ORDERED
Submarine May Be Delayed by
Fault in Submerging
Apparatus
BALTIMORE, July 27. Tho German
Bupersubinnrine Deutschland has en
countered mechanical difficulties which
may indefinitely delay her departure
from Baltimore. Teats of the sub
marine's submerging apparatus have
developed defective parts, which must
be replaced before the Deutschland Is
ready for her perilous dash through the
enemy-filled waters of the Atlantic.
Naval Constructor Prussc, who su
perintended the building of tho boat nt
Bremen and who came to Baltimore as
her supercargo, is working day and
night on the repairs. He believes he
will have the submarine rcady to sail
within 2 J hours.
WASHINGTON, July 27. The Brit
ish admiral commanding the cruiser
squadron off the Atlantic coast indig
nantly denies that a British warship
entered Chcsnpeakc Bay, as reported
to the Navy Department yesterday.
WASHINGTON, July 27. Complaint
hardly will be made to tho British Govern
ment on account of tho Invasion of Ameri
can territorial waters by a British cruiser
two days ago. Tho report of Captain
Phelps, commanding tho battleship Louis
iana, now In tho hands of tho Stato De
partment, has convinced officials there that
the British vessel violated neither Federal
nor local laws. Tho captain's report fol
lows :
The commanding officer of tho
Louisiana reports that about 2:30 a,
in., tho 2Bth, while ho was at anchor
In Lynn Haven Bay, and using hla
Bcarchllgts and Blgnal lights and
othorwlso Indicating that ho was a
man-of-war, ho was passed by a ves
sel that was barely discernible, ex
cepting for two man-of-war lights dis
played aft, Ab this vessel passed the
Louisiana she made tho signal which
read, "English cruiser." Tho vessel
then was standing apparently up the
channel toward Hampton Itoads. Tho
lights disappeared very soon after tho
signal was made and nothing further
was seon of her, though the Louisiana
kept a bright lookout for her.
Evidently tho British cruiser went to sea
afterward, as she was not seen anywhero
about tho Virginia capes today, so far as
official Information goes.
Officials of the Stato and Navy Depart
ments made It clear that should any British
vessel of tho coast patrol enter Chesapeake
Bay after tho undersea liner has reached
Norfolk or Newport News and Is preparing
to go out, the United States will bo forced
to seize that British vessel and detain it
until 24 hours after tho departure of tho
German submarine. That is the usual
course, officials said, In the observation of
American neutrality.
The most serious charge that can be
placed against tho commander of the British
cruiser, the Identity of which Is not yet
known, Is a violation of the unwritten code
of courtesy of the seas.
The British Embassy today cabled the
Continued on 1'aze Two, Column Two
UNITED BUSINESS MEN
FIGHT SMALL COUNCIL;
OPPOSE CITY MANAGER
Association's President Tells
Charter Revision Committee
Changes Are Needed, but
Not Radical Ones
WANT NO EXPERIMENTS
William Hancock, president of the United
Business Men's Association, has outlined
what he says will be the attitude of that
organization toward the proposed new c.ty
charter in a letter to Thomas naeburn
White, a member of the Charter Committee.
On the general proposition of revision as
already outlined, Mr. Hancock says the
United Business Men agree; but, he says,
there are two things they will be against:
a city manager and a Council of only IS
men.
Ills letter follows;
"Thomas naeburn White, Esq Dear
Sir: I understand that you are the head
of a subcommittee, appointed by Jdhn C.
Winston, to consider a plan for revising the
city charter.
"The United Business Men's Association,
at Its June meeting, availed Hself of the
Invitation to Join In tha movement, and
'hence we are represented on your general
committee. I am also Informed that yvur
subcommittee would be pleased to recehe
general suggestions or express'uns of opin
ion on the subject.
"Therefore I wish to state that while we
agree the city charter la in need of some
revision, the United Business Men's Asso
ciation Is hardly likely to listen to any such
Idea as a 'city manager' to take the place
of the Mayor and his directors. Nor can
we agree to so -small a Council as one bavin-
but 18 members.
"Such ideas a the two I have mentioned
Coatlttacil oa fase Xx. CjIu& Jftai
OWNERS'S NAMES
ASKED BY ROTAN
IN VICE INQUIRY
Prosecutor Seeks List of
Property Holders in
Tenderloin
ROBINSON TESTIFIES
Bolice Superintendent Says He
"Heard Rumors Others Had
Received Graft"
JAMES ROBINSON
The Superintendent of Police, on
this, his forty-fifth birthdny, is ap
pearing before the Grand Jury in
the vice investigation.
Doflnlto Btcps to learn who Is responsible
for tho cxlstcnco of disorderly houses In
the Tenderloin wcro taken this afternoon
when District Attorney rtotan requested
tho Board of Revision of Taxes and Bureau
of Surveys to send him a list of tho owners
of houses in that district,
Air. Itotan made that request Immediately
after tho Grand Jury adjourned for the
day.
This action and an admission made by
Superintendent of Police noblnsc-n" that he
''had heard that others" had recMvcd graft
In tho Pollco Department, were two of the
big developments In the Grand Jury's In
vestigation of vice. The superintendent did
not go into any details concerning what he
told the Jurymen ho had heard.
SUMMONSES ISSUED.
After the adjournment of the Grand'
Jury this afternoon it was learned that Cap
tain Nicholas J, Kenny, Lieutenants Stinger,
Van Horn and Vice Squad Otllcer Lee, who
U'ora suspended following tho raid of July
15, liavo been subpoenaed to appear before
the Jurymen tomorrow. Director Wilson
and Assistant Director Davis and Lieuten
ants Little and Ewlng also wero summoned.
Tho Jury today received two letters which
promise to glvo a sensational turn to the
Investigation. One of the writers asserted
that a gambling house was running in full
sway directly opposite the home of Mayor
Smith, who lives at 2114 North Broad
street. Another letter, from a convict re
cently released, said that he had lost $70,000
Continued on Fase Four, Column One
ONE PARALYSIS DEATH;
t FOUR NEW CASES FOUND;
FAMILIES QUARANTINED
Infant Stricken Last Monday
Succumbs to Disease Parents
Refused to Send Him
to Hospital
HE ATE HAM AND CABBAGE
Another death from Infantile paralysis
and four new cases of the disease have
been reported to the Philadelphia health
authorities.
Two of the cases appeared last night In
the district bounded by Wharton. Chris
tian and Broad streets and the Delaware
River, where three other cases had been
reported within the last fie days.
The child who died was Jacob Fink, 2Z
months old, 409 Slgel street. He was
stricken last Monday, His parents refused
to have him taken to the Philadelphia Hos
pital for Contagious Diseases. It was
learned that not long before the baby be
came afflicted he had been'fed ham, cab.
bage and boiled potatoes. Dr. A. A. Cairns
said It was Improbable that the child got
the disease from eating this food, but, it
was improper diet for a baby.
The two new cases reported were Rocco
Steppln,,7 months old, 721 Kimball street,
and Cocslno dl Blast, S years old, 735 Man
ton street. They" had been under observa
tlon since Sunday. Mrs Steppln, mother
of the baby, and 'her 2-year-old son are
under quarantine at tbelr home. Six
boarders and seven children are under
quarantine at the dl Blast home.
Helen Bauxbaum, Ji years old, daugh
ter of Rudolph Bauxbaum, of Buffalo. N. V ,
was reported suffering from the disease at
29H Poplar street, the home of August
Frless, cousin of Mr Bauxbaum The
Friess homo Ufas quarantined with H per
eon who Jtvt there. Helen wa removed to
Centura oo fat Two, Cclaaaa (foe
' "IMMaZZ"
QUICK NEWS
SHOOTS HIMSELF IN BELLEVUE DINING HALL
A man identified as Harry Longacre, nbout 55 years old, address
not known, walked into the rear main dining loom of the Bellevue-Strntford-Hotel
and shot himself through the right temple at 2(40
o'clock ttils afternoon. He is dying in the Hahnemann Hospital.
Quests in the lobby of the hotel and persons from tho street weie at
tracted by tho shot.
MRS. KATIIER1NEV. WILEY WINS DIVORCE
!
VApHINOXON, July 27,-Mrs. Catherine V. Wiley, whose hus
band, Hoiace Wiley, eloped in 1010 wrth Mrs. Helen Hbyt Hichbom,
wife of Philip Hichbom, was granted an absolute divorce this afternoon.
EMPIRE CITY
Tiist race", 3-yenr-olds and
and 70 yards Good Counsel, 07,
Gate, 100, Bill, 3 to 1. 3 to 5,
PaiNe, 7 to 10, 1 to 0, out, third.
BRITISH SEIZE MAIL FROM TWO NEUTRAL VESSELS
BERLIN, July 27. British officials took mail at Kirkwall from
the neutral steamship GUIs, bound fiom Rotterdam to India, and the
liner Noortlnm, bound for New York, accoidlng to the Officinl News
Agency today.
NORWEGIAN BARK KENIIGERN SUNK
LONDON, July 27. The Norwegian bark Kentigern, 700 tons,
has been sunk, ji
" '. , V
PRESIDENT SIGNS $-12,000,000 HARBORS BILL
WASHINGTON, July 27. President Wilson today signed tho rivers and harbors
bill, appropriating approximately $42,000,000 for tfio continuance of old projects and
a few now ones.
MISSOURI TRAINMEN VOTE HEAVILY FOR STRIKE
ST. LOUIS, July 27. Between DO and DC per cent of tho Missouri members
of tho four railway brothorhoods are In favor of a strlko. This was learned today
from reliable sources, he balloting ended last night at midnight. Brotherhood
pfllclals of tho St. oul3 district todny wcro preparing tho ballots for delivery to tlio
brotherhood hendqunrters In Now York,
CASEMENT'S FRIENDS WORK HARD FOR REPRIEVE
LONDON, July 27. Justice Darling nnnouncod today that the five Judges who
heard the appeal of Roger Casement would sit on Friday morning to hear nny
possible application that might bo made In bohnlf of tho condemned man. Tre
mendous efforts aro being mudo to secure a reprlovo for Casement, who is under
sentence to die on August 3 for high treason.
WASHINGTON, July 27. Tho Senate Foreign Relations Committee this after,
noon voted to mnko an adverse report to tho Senat'o on Senator Martlno'sfesolu
tion nnd all substitutes providing for tho President to Intercede In Roger Casement's
behalf.
CLARK QUITS AS WASHINGTON PARTY CANDIDATE
HARRISBURG, July 27, J. Verner Clark, of Washington County, filed at the
Stato Department today his withdrawal as tho Washington party candidate for
State Treasurer, for which ho was nominated nt tho May primaries. This Is tho
first Washington party withdrawal following tho State Committee's indorsement
of Hughes. Clark's name is still on the ticket as a candidate of the Hull Moose
party.
HONDURAS AND U. S. SIGN PEACE AGREEMENT
WASHINGTON, July 27. Doctor Mcmbreno, Honduran Minister, and Acting
Secretary of State Polk today signed a Bryan pence treaty between Honduras and
the United States. This treaty provides for a year's discussion of any differences
between the two countries before hostilities may be begun. The treaty is the thirty
drat of its kind.
$9,805,-136 BALANCE IN CITY TREASURY
The weekly statement of City Ti easurer William McCoach, Issued today, shows
that the receipts amounted to ?1,087,245.49 and the payments to H98,7$4.87, which,
with tho sum on hand last week, not Including tho Sinking Fund account, left a
balance of $9,805,436,62 at the close of business lost week.
TURKS OBTAIN $11,750,000 LOAN IN GERMANY
AMSTERDAM, July 27, Germany has Just concluded a new loan of 111,760,000
to Turkey, says a dispatch from Berlin.
. WATERS OF SCHUYLKILL RISE TWELVE FEET
V Heavy rains at "Reading and other points in the Schuylkill Valley have caused
theSchuylklU River at Manayunk to rise 12 feet higher than usual. The water,
hoover, is still two feet below (he banks. At Flat Rock Dam this morning the
greatest waterfall of the season was recorded, the volume of water being registered
at 71 Inches. At the Falls of Schuylkill the river is rapidly enroachlng on the East
River Drive, Falrmount Park. '
GERMANS OPEN ROUTE TO DANUBE
t
BERLIN, July 27, Direct steamship sen-ice with the Danube has been opened
between Passau, Germany, and Belgrade.
TURKISH REGIMENT REBELS? HAVEN FIRED
ATHENS, July 27. Advices from Smyrna state that an entire Turkish regl
ment mutineed at Seveikeny, taking refuge in a forest on Mount Slmlolou. Loyal
Turks gave chase, setting tho forest on fire.
GERMAN SOCIALISTS ISSUE ANTLSTRIKE VPPEAL
AMSTERDAM. July 27. Leaders of German socialists and tradKunlonlsts have
issued an appeal to all German workmen
speeuy petu;c.
-
PRICES OF MEAT ANIMALS CONTINUE TO SOAR
WASHINGTON, July 27. Prices of meat animals continue to climb. Tney went
up one-half of 1 per cent from June 15 to July JJ, the Dejiartmcnt of Agriculture
announces, and were 17.6 per cent higher on July 15 than) they were a year ago,
8.5 per cent higher than two years ago. and 19.9 per cent higher than the average
of the last six years on that date. The figures are on hogs, cattle, sheep and,
chickens.
BOY, KNOCKED OFI WHEEL
William Petzoltd. 13 years old, of 87 1
today at the Cooper Hosplta . Camden,
tnrhor. N. J., whan a motorcycle on which
.. . , , .--,-, -
trucls,
RACING RESULTS
up, selling, with SGOO added, 1 mile
LykeJ 7 to 2, 4 to 5, out, won; Golden
out, second; Ninety Simplex, 114, La
Time, 1:50 2-5.
to refrain from strikes in the hope of a,
BY AUTC, DIES FROM, HURTS
North Lawrence street, Philadelphia, died
from injuries suffered Monday at Blue
ha vra rldin collided with n -moinr. I
, , , . ..-.
1
SEGREGATION
OF VICE URGED
BY DAVE LANE
"Don't Splash Puddle of
. Filth," gage of
. City Says 1
SCIENCE WILL SOLVE
IT, NOT RELIGION
Keep Question Out of Hands
of Women and
Ministers
SEX CRUEL, HE DECLARES
DAVID H. LANE
Sage of the Organization, who is
77 yenra oloV tomorrow.
Rv a Btaff Correspondent
ATLANTIC CITY. N. J., July, 27 Davw
Lane had something to say today hla
birthday eve about vice.
This sage of the Republican party in
Philadelphia, David H. Lane, of the Twen
tieth Ward, always forgets the Intimate
matters of politics when his lilrthJiy come
around and he Is 77 tomorrow tq phltpso
phlze about larger things; but who couIC '
want a subject where' mature wincHo
counts for more than1 such a subject
vice 7
Mr, Lane counts himself a. very youns;
man, Indeed, when I comes to talking
nbout It. too. Ho suggests that the vlcj
probers go back a bit further than he eaj,
with all his full, active life , ft Uew Ij
that they go to those clttes of a .nirfnt?
years and aak them how to deal wi't iiin.
To say 'that he deplores the pre. :
ceedlngs In Philadelphia might bt going
rather far, but it Is no untruth to aar he.
has no sympathy with them, ?qttrig t In
his epigrammatic way, "There Is no use
handling a problem , with the heart when
It demands the head."
He doesn't like to see the puddle of filthy
splashed all about, and any thing but
segregation Is bound to result that way,
he thinks.
"Who do you blame for the way the
'thing 1b handled?" the Interviewer wanted
to know,
"Ah!" he exclaimed, sagely, and the
went on to say that when you cut through
to the core of the trouble the people' are
to blame.
"For," he said, "officials do what ttvfk
people think ought to be done, and when?
a problem Is looked at wrongly It Is bound
to be handled wrongly,"
Now every Phlladelphlan knows Mr.
Lane's pet aversions, and his principal one,
reformers. But he hasn't often said aloud
that the church may some times be wrong.
He did say so today.
It was in connection with this same ques
tion of Uce,
The conversation had been general an
Mr, Lane was ruminating on the tremen
dous Influence of the clergy In politics) a
Influence exercised in such n, way that
things were left undone by legislators be
cause they feared the wrath of the pulpit
publicly expressed, and on Sunday. He
told many stories to Illustrate, Includln
that time-honored story about Jim
Nichol's losing out In his effort to have
hotels permitted to serve table guests with
liquor on the Sabbath, and that led to
the question of whether he would favor
the turning over of this vice problem t
the clergymen for settlement.
"Heavens, no!" he shouted. Then In ft
tone a bit more modulated:
"Nor the women" He explained tig
way woman treat their own sex U iwh
than a shame, It is sinful. If a girl slips
once they cast her out; they drive her
not only to Infanticide, but to the sale of
herself; and the public drives. hr to
thievery. Fpr once you arrest one of the
poor girls, and fine her 110 or 15, which
she can't pay, you send her to prison, ana
Continued an raii'Twa, Column Tata
SPANNELL, ARMY OFFICER'S
SLAYER, HELD WITUOPT KAIL
Preliminary Hearing Ifeld for TwtM
Man Who gfiot Couple
ALPINE, Tex.. July 27 prokt
worn since he allot Mrs, SpanaWl
Lieutenant colonel M c Butler last
Harry J Spanaell was remanded is
custody of the. sheriff without beau ail,
today'a preliminary hearing.
Spanned was returneoi to the mumm JM
in El Pasa to await the action
QMQe4
Jury, which meets. Keptemb ton.
refiued to man a ataUswat.
In contrast to tha fofwac A
wwsur. ,jviriM a iwumiWW
-jQony c$UD4H u aeaan tetaf
EatesnoL trafcaTerf lad duaaafd.
1 i -t!i&&x4 k
!
