Bringing Up Father
h'eccr Loses Us Keen Wit and
Delightful Humor
jRicljmouft Cimcjs-pispatcli
Frank Carpenter
Look, for His Alaska Letter in
the Sunday Times-Dispatch
66th YEAR
VOLUSIB ??
M'llUKIt 2t?s
RICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY, JULY 27, 191(5.?EIGHTEEN PAGES
CLOUDY
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
U. S. WAR VESSELS !
OUTSIDECAPESON
NEUTRALITY DUTY
Orders Follow Visit of Mys
terious Ship Into Amer
ican Waters.
OFFICIALS MAINTAIN
UNUSUAL SECRECY
Refuse to Disclose Just What In
structions Arc Sent to U. S.
Commander.
1*1 UTIIKK KKPOHT IS WV.WTKl)
' . S. f'ruiscr Mvpcrlril t??? I'rcvont
*ny Attack mi l)(*iit^rhlan'l
Within Throt'-Mlln Limit.
V-' A -IIINGTON. July - Aroused hy
'' 'II' report from tin* <'onun<intl<?r
! e battleship Louisiana that a
r- M? ous ship, purport Iricr to he a
cruiser, had entered tlx* Vir
pes Mrly yesterday niorniii;,
' r v 1 rv.p;,? tment to-day ordered
armored cruiser North Carolina and
? -IfHiroNiin t r. neutrality ?!uty off
' oe Henry.
? I.\1r malntaiTo(i umi!>ual secrecy
r*cardlnc the matter, and would not
???5o.?o just what Instructions w*re
?"it in the commander ?>f tlie North
' o I i n a
It was :i Hsu trie linu< ver, tli.it In
tern direct* ... that th. I>r.
merchant s.i ? (!.. Detjts. hland,
*.v preparing for lie; rr'urn trip to
' ?ernianv, i* > r.t attacked hv allied war
wltt'in the three-mile limit. and
t> ?' Arner! ;?n ?? ? utnlltv Is not other
v iolated.
ItI'IMiMT IIV IM |||i:\T It>
II1: \ [t-A IIM 11{ \ I. Mcl.KA.V
-< retary Daniels made public the
'r' .owing extract from a report sub
mitted hy Rea"-Admiral McLean, com
? ndivg the Norfolk Navv-Yard
comma mil !ig oUVrr -f the
Louisiana reportF th.it about D.30 A M.,
" * I'.'th. wj 111 e lie w?s at anchor in
-.nh.iven Rav arrl u>--irg his search
t*? and signal lights. and otherwise
"idi ? tins that he was a man-of-war.
r wa passed hy a vessel that was
barely discernible. ' Jfrepihis fr?- two
- war lights displayed aft.
As this vessel passed the I^ouisiina
the made the signal which read 'Khr.
lij-i; cruiser." The vessel was then
standing apparently up the channel
toward Hampton Koads. The lights
'fi>appeared very =oon after the signal
was made and nothing further was seen
i?f Iter. ihouL-h the Louisiana kept a
cht lookout for her."
Admiral McLean has been asked foi
a more complete statement.
I'nofJlclally, navy oilirers agreed
!)!<? if *.h< s i ;? sighted from the
Louisiana wa* a Miitish cruiser, the
commander of the vessel had been
guilty of a breach of naval practice,
and had violated navigation laws In
i ruising within American territorial
waters without proper lights. While
i: w.t conceded that the cruller was
?v.t! her s iplits in entering territoi :a
water?, provided she had o .s. ?? 'he
: :'.e? ! was declared an ttlcmp! t<
run into the bay on a stoutinc eypedi
tion and in disregard of r.avlgatiot
laws would constitute a ur-.-s viola
tlon of international courtesv
OVI.J Pit I NCI PI.K IWOIAKII
l A.v iik thi:aii:ii i. s
Sr.ce 11;e name of the craft is no
known, and since she apparently re
turr.rd to sea after a brief inspection,
of the roadstead, only the principle in
volved in the inciden' .-in be treated
in whatever course the Washlngtor
government may pursue
T'r.e man-of-war's liirht- referred to
In the admiral's report a:>- two white
lights hoisted <>n the mainmast, which
p-e the recognized symbol of a war
jihlp -'it niclu the world over. Naviga
tion laws require, h<>wovt-r. that red
and green port and starboard li^h'-s
mUFt be displayed by all vessels ! ti
niotion. so that other craft may deter
mine. their our.se and avoid accidents.
The report Indicates that the cruiser
did not obey that rule.
The report was submitted to the
State Department as a matter of in
formation. Whether it will he made
the subject of complaint to the Brit
ish Government is not known. It w.a
clearly indicated to-night, however,
that adequate precautions would be
taken by naval vessels on neutrality
duty to see that the visit was not re
peated, unless with proper formalities,
and that British or French war v< -
fols which might l>e lying off the capes
waiting for the German merchant sub
marine to pass out on her return jour
ney did not violate American neutrality.
AIRCRAFT AM) I1KSTROVKItS
TO <;? THROUGH 1'RAf'TM'K
The North Carolina has aboard a
mmber of navy aeroplanes, and. to
gether with the destroyers, will gr.
hrouch flying practice while watch
ng for possible neutrality violations
Secretary Daniels, in an announcement
if tlie details, said the cruiser had been
irdered to "exercise on the Southern
irill grounds in the immediate vicinity
,f the sen huoy off Cape Henry with
, ircraft In conenction with the de
i royers, and will temporarily also he
?ng.iged In neutrality duty."
The statement that the mysterious
isltor iri the road^ last night made
he signal "English f'ruiscr" puzzled
tavy ofllccrs. The ordinary style of
eportltig the identity of a warship to
passing vessel or marlno lookout
|s-ould require a formal statement of
iiationallty and name. The Louisiana
H'ould teport herself as the "IT. 55. P
'.oulsiana." and n Rritlsh warship ordi
arily would say "Ills Majesty's ship"
efore giving her name.
Officials were at n loss to account for
he purpose of the trip. It was pointed
^Continued on "Third Page.")
>
.
Deutschland Not to
Leave for Week
IIAI/rniOIIK, Mil.. July I'lirl
A. I.iiilcrllx, licrr,
mild to-iilclit lluit tin* mr ri-luin t
milium rlup DctilMi-hlmiil tvoiilil not
lenvo for n week. U'lirn naked why
her depnrtnrt* trim further delayed
"f'T Henrii hit papem |ia,l been
taken out. I lie eoomil n oulil vourli
wnfe no riplnnntlon.
Mr. f.mlerlt/. hImo iiiiiioiini'ed ili??
poat ponciiten I of n unr.len party that
?n? to havp lirrn It??|?| at |,|H Mll|,llr_
Iwin liomc to-nlelit. I |,l? ivni. o,vlnK
to the Innlilllty of Aml.nm.ndnr Mern
RtortT 10 lie prmrnt. he mhIiI.
DEUTSCHLAND CLEARED
fill SOME GERMAN PORT
Ati.v Hour >lay Start Down Hay, I'rf
pnrrtl to .MaJif f,?.'
SC'II.
K.\'.\( T 'IIMK is I.VDKFINJTE
Snrrer.v Surrounds Plans of Captain
Kooniu?Tuj{ Timmins Standing
M.v. With I nil 11 pat] of Strain in
IIfr Hoiloi'v.
UA/.TTMOUrr, July 2?: ?The rjerman
submarine llner to-day
n ,s '??*<r?d i>> her < ommander, Cap
tain Paul Koenig. for "Bremen or anv
<Xh?r port in Germany." Any h..?r
" " v"y' ' ' may start down I'hcsa
pcake liuy. prepared to makc a ,lasIl
tor 'ho open Sori throuch the Vlrcinia
.- 'I Tl,r yuard of allied war hips
"if the th: ee.m||? limit.
Secrecy su-roitnds the ,,|an? n{ ,..ip_
,f,ln Ko^nin. Apr, secrinc his ?>nr,
r 1' r! " r ?'"s'om-housp. h?
' ' rr' v questions asked fnr
? he benefit of the Maryland Pilots'
Assoe.iation, that the eva^T tim? of h
:t;ar"i? ?ir-WInite To? njuht he
had made no a rra n eem?.. i . t
~f ""tit- f'.r a pilot
1:1 ''*? can S ?'? r , 11 o
<!ev i rf>?! ??*
Agents ,,f t)l
freighter an
nounced .hi, afternoon that she wa,
v for th" return voy.-.ce to rjer
many. a::d that clean, n.-e paper.- would
???? -eeur.d !:??,? (n tho (lav Thjs jn_
formation was . onveyed to the eustom
house. nr.d ,ke ofhre, of the rlearanoe
' n ;tfi k"I>t open for Captain
Koenftr. v. o arrived Bhortly before
or ]r?r k will, Captain Hins.'h. of ,?,?
North German Lloyd liner Xeekar.
A ?? l\ S TH AT M AMKRst UK
Ki:r?r sncitKT v w hji.k
After the uciial formalitief. ,he r.Mn
mantle: of jh? ...i.,
"-a uestc-d
tliAt hi? manifest, which he had tiled
^ withheld from publication -for
reasonable time- Collector of the Port
I.van communicated with the Trea^trv
Department nt Washington and then
informed < apt.iin Koenic- that lii<< re.
quest would be Cr.-,?te,l Consequent lv.
carco was dew nbed ofllctallv a.?
b^in? composed of Bvneral mcr.han'
On his way from the huiid,,,? the
ttle , apt;?m tarried Ion:: enough to
shake hands with several officials'who
wished him a safe vovace
"We certainly :,,e wi?|, said
?ne of his well-wi>hi-r>. valtinc h.m
on the shoulder.
''a ptain Koenic smiled broadlv
j nodded his head, said -I thank you"
:?"d then continued on his wav to the
pier, where the Deutschland has been
tied tip for more thftn two weeks.
T iie ttic Thomas K. Timmins. which
met the Deutschland ..ff ihe Virginia
capes upon her- arrival, and which has
?been constantly near her ever since
; pulled away from the pier late to-dav
and went to a near-by coal pier, where
?she nile,| her bunkers. Diroctlv after
ward she returned to the Dentachlands
pier, and some hours later it was ap
parent that she was maintaining a full
head of steam in her hollers
n KI.IKF THAT KAHI.V S TA It I
IX TO ni: JIADK KOH ( AI'KS
This caused the belief in maritime
circles that the start for the capes
i might be made during the night.
Captain Koenig. however, declined to
give any information whatsoever re
garding the rime of his departure.
All da\ long there was activity
aboard the neutschiand. The engines
were tested again and again, and twice
the vessel was submerged until her
keel rested on the bottom in her slip.
These operations seemed to be in
teresting to persons aboard two Hritish
freighters which have dropped anchor
off the Peutsciilnnd's pier during the
last day or two. A do yen men 011 (he
stern of each of the ships, the High
bury and the Ardgvfe, took turns at
using several pairs of marine classes.
{At dark they were still watchinc the
; submarine.
HELD WITHOUT BAIL
'<oy lllnterllter Mu.hI Kiior lirnnd Jury
In > oniievtlon With Denlli of
>li*s Itnili'KlVc.
' H?XK^. II.I, , July ?_'?!.?An exphina
j linn of the circumstances to which are
attributed the death of Miss Rlizaheth
Hadcliffe near here late Friday night
was given to-day by 11. <;. Morris,
state's attorney.
Me<;ause of the girl's death Roy* Ilin
terliter is awaiting action by the Xo
veinber grand Jury. He was held with
out bail after the verdict of (he corn,
tier's Jury yesterday.
The death of .Miss Hadcliffe, it |a
claimed, was due io a bungling at
tempt to perform an illegal operation.
Air hubbies, it is claimed, entered the
circulatory system of the young girl
and when I hey reached 'the heart or
brain death must have resulted.
Stating thai the autopsy showed that
!the girl was in a delicate cuiidi I ion, lite
I prosecutor added:
"There were 110 exterior marks of
violence. Three experienced purgeons
found all organs perfectly normal."
United States May Purchase Danish West Indies for $25,000,000
t ?L_? " ? ' ? -? *? -??? ? ? ' ????
Charlotte Aim-lie, St. Thomas. Hlaekhu rd's < "astir on hill to left; lllackhurd's Tower on hil! to the right. St. Thomas, St. John and St.
Croix, or Santa Cruz, arc three islands of the West Indies belonging to Denmark. According to report a treaty for the purchase of these three islands
has hcen negotiated between the United States and Denmark. The islands lie ahout fifty miles ofi" the east coase of I'orto Kico. They are 112
sipiare miles in area, and support a population of UT.OtM) persons.
STATE SENATOR DOWNING
NIK CQNTEST HAY SEAT
Apparent I v \ ill huril.it i\r> Report
S.mv*. He W ill Kilter Seventh
l?i*-trici Kace.
A< '< 'KI'TS II.WS KMSKJ.N ATI ON
(!i)\Pinor Stuart, Acknowledging
f.'oi)|{rPssiti;iir>. Notice of Retire
ment, K.vprosses Regret at Lo?-s of
IIiDistinguished Services.
Senator H. II Downing. <>f Front
, lloyal, w: 11 r-. nndida to f"f the
Dem ocra t ic nominal lor. from the Sev
enth Congressional District for thej
seat made va'ant by the rot ircnient of
Representative .lames Hay, according to j
pnllth-al trossip which wont the rounds ,
? f ' 1;f'apitol \ ' -?erday. Tlf report I
was broueht to Richmond by a friend
of the prospective candidate. ami found
! ira.ly belief anion: those who profess I
ii> l i> it i-loj-o tou-h with iti" political I
rituation mi 'he P.lue Rldee District.
Tin- Warren Senator lias liren men- j
lione-l tofore as a possible aspirar.t1
, for congressional honors, hut, In the
absence of a specific declaration of can
didacy. was thought to have decided to
leave the field open to .Judge Thomas
W. Harrison, whose friends have
openly espoused his c?'is?*. vnnil pons'-:
tor N P. Karly. .1 r . of Greene, who
entered the lists several tlays rim.
Tr.e report yestrrday, however, came
from an authoritative source. and little
doubt was expressed tint . th-ee-err
nered flzht is on
II \ s vi;h \ 1.11 IN IIU'I II
nit \ v< Mi> ??r i.!;?.is|. \ti in:
Senator Liiiwninc is one or" the lead
irr-: lawyers of his section of the State,
and has served in both branches of the.
Legislature. In his fight for the Pen- j
ate last year prohibition was made a
? ?'ear-cut issue, and he was elected by
substantia! majority over two "dry"
candidates lie voted ncainst the Mapp
prohibition bill. j
With Senator !"????wniiu? in the race, j
the i-o'-.-.e=i ;? Tt-,e Seventh promise? to
he the political event of the year. All
candidates are men of marked ability.'
and have sti-enc following throughout
the district.
The resignation of Mr. Hay, who re
tires to accept a seat on the t'nited
States Court of Claims, was received j
yesterday by Governor Stuart, who im
mediately ordered a special election to1
l.e held on the Tuesday following thej
first Monday in November?the date
also of the presidential election?to'
name his successor for the unexpired,
term. Mr. Hay's resignation becomes'
effective on September 'i^.
(iOVKHNOlt CF.PTS
ItKSKiXATlON WITH ItlUJItKT
The letter received by the Governor
and his reply follow:
Washington, D.
July "J-t. 1916.
Governor Henry *"? Stuart, Rich- |
mond, Va.:
My Pear Governor.? I resign my
position as a member of the Sixty- ,
fourth Congress, said resignation fo
take effect September 3<">. 191fi.
Vours sincerely,
i S i g i; ? ? 1) .1 A MISS HA V.
Richmond, Va..
.Inly "jr.. i?lr>. j
Hon. .lames Hay. House of P.epresenta- j
lives. Washington. D. C.:
My Hear Mr. Hay.? Your resignation
as a member of the Sixty-fourth Con
gress from the Seventh District of Vir
ginia. effective September :10. 10HI. is ?
i to-day received
In accepting this resignation 1 desire,
to express my regret that your district j
and State are to lose your very able
and conspicuous service in the House,
of lleprescnt.itives, a service of many
years filled with faithful and patriotic;
work for your State and country. I
desire also to express the confident
hope that in your new position you
may continue t?> realize the supreme
satisfaction that comes from the con
sciousness of work well done.
Very sincerely yours,
(Signed) II. 'STL'AT!'I,
Governor.
The district committee meets at.
I Charlottesville to-morrow to arrange
the manner of making the nomination,
i it is tlioiiulit to be a foregone ,-onolu
! sion that it will be done by convon
i Hon. The standard bearer of Hie
Democrats for the unexpired term will
! probably he their candidate for the
i regular term, which begins March I,
German Steamer Sunk.
i LONDON. July 26. 10:-IP. M.?A j
| Stettin dispatch to neuters says that,
'the German st( imer Norderney. bound i
! from Sweden for Germany and ladeK
j with Iron ore, lias been sunk north
of Aroona Rugen Island. The captain
nnd three of the crew were drowned.
The map shows the Danish West Indies, uith reference to the Panama Canal.
PROTEST ALMOST HEADY
OVER BLACK LIST ISSUE:
Communication to Bo Sent to Lon
don in N'ear Future, Probably
Within Xe.vt Few Days.
DISCI SSION* OF P R 1 N C I P I. K S
Will .Vol Interfere With Continuance*
of Informal Parleys Between Rep
resentatives of Two fJovernments
Over Cases of Individual Firms.
?
WASHINGTON'. July ?President
Wilson and State Department officials
practically have completed preparation!
of a protest against the promulgation j
of a black list of American firms under j
the British t rading-with-the-enemy art.;
It was said to-day that the communica- j
tion would be sent to London in the. I
near future, probably within the next '
few days. It will discuss ihe princi-i
pies involved, and will not Interfere ?
with the continuance of informal dis- J
cussions between representatives of the;
two governments over the cases of in- I
dividual Arms included in the list
When the principles involved are
taken up with the British government ?
it is expected that the issue also will j
be taken up with France, Russia and!
Italy.
A I.I.IKS' \IK\V OK I.Kt.AI.
AM'I'.ers OK OltUK.lt
The allies' \iew of the legal aspects j
nf the black-list order, which probably i
will be the basis for the parliamentary!
statement to he issued soon in London j
and be incorporated in the reply to the i
American protest, is understood to be
as follows:
"The allies agreed to enforce inter-!
national law against their enemies and;
upon all their subjects without distinc
tion. The continent;)I rule, applied by
Germany, France, Italy and Russia, in-I
terprets the word "enemy" as a person |
of enemy origin or interest. Knglish I
and American precedents put the em
phasis on domicile. Consequently,
British subjects have considered they
could trade with any enemy firm domi
ciled in a neutral country."
A withdrawal of the list, it is con
tended. would have the. effect of cast-j
iner suspicion upon transactions with i
all firms with German names which
are acting entirely in neutral interests,
and whose profits are accruing to neu
trals. The effect of the prohibition i<
trade with the tirms would be to trans
fer British business from tirms acting
in the interest of Germany to firms
acting in the interest of the Cnlted
States.
The rule to prohibit trading with ,
the enemy, either directly or indirectly, j
and the right of a sovereign govern- j
ment to prohibit its subjects from j
trading with any one ? friend or foe?j
was maintained by the United Stales. >
Great Britain Is ready lo point nut, 1
In 1 SOT. 1 SO:? and during the Civil War.'
Furthermore, if the United States ftnv- !
ernment Is disposed to challenge ihe |
rl^ht to issue black lists, il cannot |
rely, it is argued, upon the. support |
(,*Conti7iuccT~bn Sccond Puge.)
'TELLS EDITORS HOW
I TO IKE IRE MONEY
[ Walter II. Savory Delivers Business
Talk Before Virginia Press
Association.
ADDRESS BY MRS. BARRETT
Attorney-General Pollard Declares
Newspapers Should Take I'p and
Discuss Questions That Are of
Vital Interest to the People.
Program for To-Day
10 A. M.?nimlnmn notion, Vlr
Kinla Hold, with nddrck* by It. C.
.StrnrnrKi Suprrlnlcnilt'iil i>f Public
1 tint ruction.
2 P. .M.?t.uncli for flic women,
coin pi I mm Aiiku*(h Hotel.
Jl P. M.?Golf and trnii*hontln?e, ?
Stannton Coutt l ry Club.
r, p. !>!.?nrcrplion rind dance at
Country Club.
[Special to The Times-Dispatch.]
STAl.'XTON, VA , July 26.?Urging \
publishers of weekly and small daily |
newspapers in Virginia to break away
from the old-time method of conduct- j
ing business by adopting some form j
of cost system, and raising ad vert is- '
ins rates so that a merited proflt could !
be made on business ea? It year, Walter
H. Savory. Eastern sales manager of
tho Mergeuthaler l.inotype Company,
New York, told the Virginia Press As
sociation to-day how this could tie
! done, lie urped the publishers to
count their own salaries, rents <>f prop
erty owned by themselves and depre
ciation of plant alon& with insurance,
repairs, etc., in the expense account.
This, in many instances, is not done,
consequently Virginia newspapers In
the smaller towns are not making a
living for their owners.
Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett. <-f Alex
andria, the mother of President Robert
S. Barrett, was ^introduced. and spoke
on the "Three Its": "Bread," the staff
of life: "Beauty," the heart <<!' nature, ;
and "Brotherhood." A man having
bread and enjoying the beauties <>f life
and not sharing the same with his
brother, the speaker said, is not show
ing the proper appreciation of life.
Mrs. Barrett made a beautiful appeal
for higher education for the women "f
Virginia.
PAPKH SllOl l.l) IMSCt ss
AM. Pt'HMC tit l'.M IO\S
Attorney-General Pollard said he
presumed ho was to speak on the i
"Freedom of the Press." but after what
some of the papers had said of him, he
was not sure that he was in favor of
such freedom. Becoming thore seri
ous, Mr. Pollard urped that the new s- I
papers of the State lake up and dts< u- ? j
gre.n public finest ions
"Candidates for otllce," he :?.nd. "es
pecially ought to make -known their
platforms of principles and Rive their
(Continued on Third Page.)
PROVIDES INCREASED PAY !
FOR ARMY MEN ON BORDER |
| Senate Amendments Grant Officers
10 Pei- Cent and Privates 20
Per Tent Advances.
' IMPROVED CAMP CONDITIONS
] Wooden Floors and Screens to Re
Placed in Troop Tents?Authority
Given for Soldiers in Mexican Ser
vice to Vote for President.
WASHINGTON', July "fi.?Increased
j pay for officers and men of the. regular
I army and National fluard In active ser
1 vice for the Mexican emergency, im
proved camp conditions to safeguard
their health and authorization for
them to vole in the field at the coming:
presidential election were provided in
amendments to the army appropriation
bill agreed to to-day by the Senate.
By a vote of 44 to 13 the Senate also
suspended the rules to adopt an amend
ment changing the age minimum for
enlistment in the regular army from
eighteen to twenty-one years, without
the consent of parent or guardian.
Under the provision. boys under
twenty-one now serving in the army
would not be retained in the service
unless they tiled within thirty days
the written consent of their parents
or guardians. The amendment was
adopted without a roll call.
\ 1*1*1.IKS A I,SO TO SKR VK'K
OX MlvVICAV HOIlDKIt
. Senator Reed, of Missouri, offered the
amendment which would make the
existing provision for increased pay to
the army when in service on foreign
soil apply also to service on the Mexi
can border. I'nder it officers will re
ceive a lo per cent and enlisted men
20 per cent increase in pay. In adopt
ing it the Senate also increased the
Mouse appropriation for pay from
? 1.105.000 to $11,11S.02I.
The amendment giving soldiers In
the Mexican service authority to vote
in the ileid at the national election
passed without opposition.
As .i safeguard to the health of sol
diers. an amendment was adopted ap
propriating irt for construction of
wooden floors and screens in troop
tents along the border.
House appropriation of $5,000,000
for small arms was approved, despite
a proposal by the military com'ttee
to cut it to $?_',*? ?0.000, and th.Q Serial*
again voted to retain the House pr<j"<.
vision prohibiting installation of sclen
t i tic speeding-up systems in govern
ment works. An amendment to strtke
out the latter provision was defeated
yesterday, but was reintroduced by
I Senator Oallinger.
The bill Is expected to pass to-mor
row.
I'.nrl of I.y11on Appointed.
1.mNIh?N. Jul> jr.?The ISarl of l.yt
ton has heen appointed Civil I.ord of
ihe Admiralty, replacing the L?uko of
Devonshire, who lias been designated
(Sovernor-iicneral of Canada.
/
ENTIRE VILLAGE !
OF PQZiERES WON
FROM GERMANS
Berlin Admits That Enemy
Has Established Himself
in Position.
CAPTURE OF ERZINGAN
OFFICIALLY ANNOUNCED
Turks Retiring in Great Disor
der, Abandoning Arms and
Munitions.
ri'ssfaxs a he advancing
Czar Nicholas Sends Telegram Con
gratulating Troops on Im
portant Victory.
Willi- the village ?f Poxiere? com
pletely and apparently securely in their
hnn<i?, anrl having strengthened their
position here by the rapture of two
stronc trenches west of the village. the
British troops seemingly are resting
before attemptinc asain to throw their
forces against the Germans, who are
blocking: their advance toward Ra
paume. Wednesday saw only isolated
artillery duels and Itore and there sharp
local infantry attacks alone the entire
British front in France, where for sev
eral weeks sanguinary encounters had
been ensHsoil in almost continuously.
South of the Sonime. the French have
recorded another success in the taking
of a fortified house with some prisoner's
southeast of the villace of Estrees.
Except in the Champagne, whore the.
artillery of both sides was engaged in
somewhat violent actions, little fight
ing took place on the remainder of the
French front.
In- the. Volhynia sector the Russians
are keeping up enercet ically their pres
sure on the Teutonic allies in the
Sloceka. River region, and are also at
tacking the Teutons in North Galicla,
nefr Brody. In the Slonevka. district
Petrograd says the Teutons are suffer
ing heavy casualties, and that more
than -l.on,i men. five guns, six machine
guns and quantities of munitions have
been captured by the Russians.
CO.MM I" \ If AT IONS AT VAH1AMT,
ON IlKSlliTS OF FIGHTING
The Petrograd and Berlin communi
cations arc at vari&uoo.cofioernlng. the
results of figh'tintr that has taken place
near Riga and in the vicinity of Bar
anovichi. Petrograd claims the repulse
of an offensive hv Field .Marshal von
llindenburg's men near Riga, while
Berlin asserts that the Germans pene
trated Russian advanced positions thero
and destroyed them. Likewise, Petvo
grad claims a slight gain for the Rus
sians near Baranovichi, while Berlin
declares that strong Russian attacks
in the vicinity were, put down with
heavy casualties by the Germans.
The Turks have evacuated Erzingan,
in Turkish Armenia, and the Russians
are in possession of this important
strategic point. The reports of the,
evacuation have not mentioned as yet
whether the Turks in their retreat were
able to take away, in the face of the
rapid Russian advance, the puns and
stores in Erzingan.
The German admiralty asserts that
a German submarine twice torpedoed
a British Dreadnought off the Orkney
Islands, Scotland, July 20. but the Brit
ish Admiralty says the vessel attacked
was a small auxiliary, and that It was
not hit.
( APTtRE OK PO/.IKltBS
IS IMI'ORTA NT GAIN*
LONDON. July 26.?The capture of
Pozieres by the British on the western
front, the taking of Erzingan. in Ar
menia. by the Russians, and the cap
ture by the Czar's forces, under Gen
eral Sakha rot " of -t.niio prisoners on
the Plonevk: River in the eastern
fighting, arc features o? to-day's war
news.
The British Secretary for War David
Lloyd George, in a published statement,
to-night, shows the importance the
Germans attached to the retention of
Pozieres by quoting from a German
divisional order issued in Contalmaison
on July 11. as follows:
"Furthermore, the conversion of vil
lages into strong points is of the
sroatvst importance. Such villages are
i'ozieres. Contalmaison and the two,
Beznntine and I.ongueval."
Secretary Lloyd George points out
that with the capture of Pozieres, the
last of these villages has fallen into
the allies' hands. He further points
out that to-day's German claim of the
repulse of an attack on Troncs wood
must be a clerical error, as Trones
woods has been in British possession
since July 14.
STnONt.r.NT POSITIONS
ALREADY CAPTURED
The opinion of the military critics
in London is that no positions so strong
as the British are now successfully
attacking will be found between
Pozieres and Bapaume; otherwise, they
argue, the Germans would not have
risked bringing troops and puns from
the Verdun sector to defend Pozieres.
and it is inferred from indications in
the oflieia I dispatches that the Brit
ish are already beginning to e*tab
lish themselves on both stiles of the
road from Posieres to Mapaume.
As on the western front, the Ger
mans and Austrlans appear unable to
make a successful stand jtnywhere
against the victorious Russian forces.
General Sakharoff's recent success ha*
brought him within about twelve miles
of Brody. which guards the approaches
to Lemberg, and places Von Bothnier a
army tn danger.
The une\pecte.dl\ swift fall of Kriln*
pan leads to the supposition here that
the Turks must ha\e removed the gun?
from the d?fen*es of this town to
assist the armies lu the field, not anttel
