THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Partly cloudy to-day, showers In the
forenoon ; to-morrow fair and warm.
Highest tempenture yesterday , 81 j lowest, 70.
Detailed weather, mail ami marine reports on page 10.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 331.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, JULY 27, 1916. Copyright, 1916. by the Sun Printing and Publishing Association.
ONE CENT
greater New York, I Klaewlirre.
City and Newark. I TWO CENTS.
BRONX TIED UP
Dvr.AK RTRItf R-
VI van u i iiiiviJj
CITY MENACED
Company Stops Service at
8 1'. M., When Many Em
ployees Quit.
PHOMIKKS TO STAKT
AGAIN EAKLY TO-DAY
Union Leaders Say They
Will Call Out Manhat
tan Trolleyinen.
THOUSANDS OF FOLK
COMPELLED TO WALK
Commissioner Woods to
Send Riff Force of Police
to Stop Trouble.
Not a wheel moved after 8 o'clock
Ust night on the 1B0 miles of double
trackage of the- street railways In The
llronx.
The strike of motormen ami conduc
tors on the lines operated by the Union
Hallway In Westchester was extended
jMtcrday to the lines controlled by
that company In the northern borough.
Miny of the surface lines were tied
up during the day and at nlsht Vice
President and General Manager Kdwln
A. Maher. Jr., ordered all the cars Into
the birns until 5 o'clock this morning.
"There Is no strike." said Mr. Maher
Ust night. "Most of the men who
staved away from work did so liecause
of intimidation by union orgunlzcrs
nd because they felt there was not
tnough police protection.
"We felt that because of the threats
of io'ence Tid the possible danger In
lh outlying districts J should not sub
ject our men or our passengers to any
trouble. We ordered all cars Into the
barns until & o'clock to-morrow mor
ning when we will start our service as
usual."
May Kntrr Manhattan.
The union men were Jubilant. After
.Mending several meetings of motormen
aid conductors in different parts of The
Hronx. where strike resolutions were
adopteil. William 1). Fitzgerald, organ
izer of the Amalgamated Association of
Street r.ir Conductors and Motormen of
America, said :
"We've won a big victory to-day.
We've brought our fight to The Bronx,
snd If necessary we'll tie up all of Man
hattan too."
Patrick O'llrien. vice-president of the
rational organization, was equally em
j.'ia'io He said that If necessary the
lle vould he extended to the elevated
nnd subway lines In bntli boroughs,
other oltlelals of the national organizat
ion are expected in the city to-day, and
M (dictions were made last night by
uu.on men that New York would soon
Me a big clrlke,
Should the surface car strike extend
to Manhattan, among the lines which
would he affected are the following: Sec
firl avenue, Third avenue, Madison ave
nue. Lexington avenue, Uroadway, Sixth
avenue. Ninth avenue, Amsterdam ave
nue, the Fourteenth, Twenty-third,
Forty-second. Fifty-ninth, 116th and
12Mh street crosstown lines.
With only the elevated and the subway
lints running regularly Into The Bronx,
tlie residents of that borough were
greatly hampered both yesterday morn
ing and iast evening at the rush hours.
In the morning not a car line between
Mount Vernon or Vonkers and The Bronx
"as running. In the evening rush hour
the s.tuatlori was still worse, for the sur
lace c.ir traltle was demoralized in the
liner part of The Bronx. By 7 o'clock
only a few cars, Jammed to capacity,
touhl 1 seen struggling northward, but
when they leached a car barn service
stopped absolutely.
Thousands llnrr to Walk.
Where thousands were compelled to
a!k in the moinlng to get to the sub
a or elevated trains to work tens of
thousand hoofed It at night. It was
cm mated tint. Including residents of
W fsleliester who idled on the trolley
strvlri. at least loo, 000 persons were
Inconvenienced by the paralysis of the
surface truth- In The Bronx.
U.ige sarnrts on their way home
is d Hie elevated or subway as far
rcsIMr. and then they tot out to
walk or pay the toll exacted by the
eperitirs of Jitney buses or the drivers
f tax ubs. Tlie Jitneys demanded no
1'sx than cents, Taxlcabs were carry
'3 ipa. Ity loads to certain olnts for
' It' id Automobib. tt ticks, horse
') vn vehicles and touring cars were
foi lure.
M'v ..ie ready to pay the toll,
'I" .UK .is ruin hud set in. Factory
vv
er- , ml shopgirls, who had only
a i K.I or n illimi In their Docket
books wre compelled to trudge home-
' o Mr' ugh i he rain. All the thorough
fa 's ihat mnvi-rge at the laigc business
''""i The Bionx weie thronged
(l ' men, women and children hiking
' 'oi. aiiki. t 8 expected I hat condl
t.. n ai be worse this morning.
'' 'hank's mare for us," said one
Join-in inerilly us she hurried home,
"lie Hr invites seemed to (like the sllll
ntion too'lhuniorfdly. The strikers
'ii I'll grimly and throughout the day
t i"ie was piactlcally no violence. One
r two trolley cars were stoned. Fights
nart'd in several placed when pickets
lied to ding motorinen or conductors
off ih'ir cms, but aside from those In-c-ilenlH
tlie stilkers wcro uncommunica
tive and silent.
Poller to ne Plrutlfnl.
Police Commissioner Woods hegau lilst
I'lght to prepare ampin police protection
'or the surface cur lines should the
'iiansgemeiit desire to start the cant
j-lr.g thU morning, lie directed ulao
'hat hundreds of police teservea be sent
from Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn
Continued on fourth Pot.
KENNEL, DYING, SAYS
I ONLY DID MY DUTY
Police Scrfronnt in Chnrjre of
Wiro Tup Squad Explains
Suicide Attempt.
SXURHKI) BY HIS KM ENDS
"I nm a Good Catholic," De
clares Officer in Defending
Course in Court.
Detective Sergeant John Kennel, sec
ond In charge of the police wire tapping
rqund, nttemptcd to commit suicide )es
terdny by shooting himself with a re
volver Just under the heart In the wire
tapping room nt the Hudson Terminal
Building. JO Church street, where he
had listened In on the telephone con
versations of Unman Catholic priests
und others Involved In the charities con
troversy. After being taken to the Volunteer
Hospital, where It was said lie" had
small chance of recovery, the detective
made an ante mortem statement to As
Istant District Attorney John F. Joyce
In which he said he had been driven to
shoot himself because he and his fRmlly
had been snubbed by their neighbors for
his part In the telephone spying and
this had been preying heavily on his
rrhnd.
The statement pictured In his own
faltering words nights of sleepless tor
ture that had been brought' on him of
late because of a divided allegiance.
One way he felt that his duty called him
to have no share tu any action dls-
j crediting the Human Catholic Church.
' vvhiwc faith he had held all his life.
Tlie other way his duty called him to
I follow unswervingly and truthfully the
I tasks assigned him in the I'ollco De
partment, where he had gained his live
lihood for many of his 50 years.
Family nttil Himself Snubbed.
The struggle of these two Impelling
il..p.u wnu .(mill. hilt St r Ik I tl B-1 V .
summed up In the words he uttered a
short time before to those about his
hospital cot:
"I nn. n Catholic A rood Catholic.
I simply did my duty, something I had
to do and was ordered to (In. Ann i
did It honestly and that Is what hurts.
My children my family myself were
snubbed."
It tu with these thoughts weighing
on hit mind that Sergeant Kennel ap
peared for work st 10:30 yesterday
morning at the small room. No. 371, In
the Hudson Terminal Building, where the
I isillce cut .In on wires, though the door
Is marked "Daniel Supply Company
No. 3."
But for all the ache In his heart the
detective showed no undue moodiness
when Detectives Thomas Watson and
Joseph De (Jllllo came half an hour'
later to relieve him. Mindful of the1
self-reproaches he had heaped upon
himself ever since the wiretapping test '
In which he had engaged In court last ,
week had turned out unfavorably, they
sought to keep up his spirits. ,
Feared Failure of Court Test. 1
They assured him that he would come,
through the second test, which Supreme
Court Justice tlrecnbaum had suggested
for yesterday or the day following, with '
Hying colors. Then he Jumped to his '
feet and exclaimed vehemently :
"Oh, the failure of this thing to go
through. If It doesn't it will drive me
I mad. Just look what it means to me."
Ho walked with an Intent expression ,
into tne little enclosure panmonen mi
from the switchboard where the police
men changed their clothes, for tlie time,
11 MS, was his usual lunch hour. A few
minutes later his comrades heard a re
volver shot. Hushing Into the anteroom
i they found him hanging limply over a
washbowl near his locker, nis hiiico pis
tol Ivlng on the floor.
Watson and De (Jllllo summoned an
ambulance from the Volunteer Hospital,
which was Instructed to stop outside the
truck entrance at the side of the build
ing. In his service trousers and shirt
ha has Just taken off his coat and
changed his shoes Kennel, wrapped in
a blanket, was taken downstairs by n
rear elevator.
Tell Why He Hhnt Himself.
On the wild d.ish to the hospital Ken
nel ensued out to Dr. Ilrndle. the am
bulance surgeon, that he had tried to
kill himself because of the publicity he '
had received. At the hospital he mur
mured that when he reached for his hat
and coat everything "became dizzy and ,
blue before me, and that he rutin t
"realize anything until they wcro stand
ing over me on the floor."
When he was carried to the operating
tnble an attending phjslelaii made a
superficial examination anil declared :
He husn t a chance. (!et a priest
quick !"
The ambulance, was sent for the near
est priest, Father l.uko J. Kvers, reelnr
of St. Andrew's Roman Catholic Church,
at Duane street and City Hall place.
No clergyman was In the rectory, so
Father C. N, Woods of St. James's
Roman Catholic Church. Oliver nnd
James streets, was brought to the Iiuh
pltal In the ambulance. He administered
extreme unction to the detective.
Meanwhile Drs. Walker and Van
Buren of Bellevue Hospital and Dr.
H.inford of the Presbyterian llospltnl
sped to assist Dr. Hill, the house sur
geon at the Volunteer, In a last desper
ate attempt to save Kennel's life.
Bullet Plerceil the Nplrrn.
It was decided that his condition was
so grave that it would not be advisable
to operate on him or even to prolie for
the bullet. It was found that the mis
sile had been dellecteil downward from
the tenth rib, piercing tho spleen.
About this time l.ieut. William Ken
tie), the Mayor's bodyguard, reached tho
bedside of his stricken brother, Home
one had told him of the shootlni; whllo
he was at his post tit the City Hall.
Instantly he leaped Into the automobile
of Fire Chief Joseph Kenlon, waiting
outside, and raced to tho hospital.
After seeing his brother Meut. Kennel
met Father Woods outside and Informed
him that hit) brother said ho had "dono
it liecause of the wrlteups In tho
pa tiers."
When the lieutenant asked the
wounded man, he said, why he hadn't
come to him In his trouble the detective
replied that he had been afraid t'o go
near City Call for the past year because
his presence there might be misunder
stood n view of the Mayor's antagonism
against Father Farrell, Mgr. Dunn, Hob-
Continued on fourth Pag,
AND NEW YORK PRE sW
GUARD HOME OCT. 1,
WASHINGTON VIEW
War Department Expects Kc
turn When Peace Ne
gotiations Knd.
Wasiunotov, July 2fi. Officials here
failed to bear out the statement at
tributed to Ucn. O'Hyan In a despatch
from McAlIen. Tex., that the Now York
troops will not be recalled from the
border before inn.
Both at the White House and at the
War Department It was said that tien.
(J'ltyan bad no authority for such a
statement. Olliclals added that (len.
O'Hyan must have expressed merely a
personal opinion, which Is not the
opinion of elthr the President or the
Secretary of War.
The belief expressed at the War De
partment Is that the National Guard
will be back by October 1. Secretary
Baker bellev'es this, although lie doesn't
announce It ofllclally. It s apparent,
though, that no one knows definitely as
the President order will depend on con
dltlons In Mexico and on the progress
of the present Mexican negotiations.
The facts are that the President is re
ceiving many complaints from various
parts of the country against what Is
termed "unnecessary" retention of the
National tJuard on tho border and It Is
realized that these complaint!) will mul
tiply as time goes on. especially If the
Mexican negotiations lead to prospects of
amicable understanding.
Amendments to the army bill adopted
by the Senate to-day concerned chiefly
the liillllla and regular forces on the
border.
tine by Senator Heed of Missouri, Dem
ocr.it. provides for taking the ballots of
the soldiers In the field at the November
e.ectlon. Senator Reed also put through
.to auieiuimeni increasing me pay ni ine
men in the service on the border by pro
vldlng for them "foreign service" pay,
wtilcn will add :o per cent, to the pres
ent pay of the privates and 10 per cent,
to the pay of commissioned ofllccr's. This
will add over $l4,0nfl,00o to the total up.
pioprlatlons carried by the bill.
The most far reaching of the changes
In the bill was the adoption of an
amendment offered by Senator I-a Fol
lette, which will result In bringing home
many of the young militiamen from the
border. This amendment restores the
law as It existed before the passage of
the army reorganization bill and pro
vides that no boy (hall l enlisted In
the regular servlcf under the age of 21
years without the written consent of
parent or guardian.
MAY DROP GRUMBLERS.
tie 11. Hilts to t rue Humiliation of
lllaeonlriitrd Men.
Hi. Paso, Tex., July 2fi.-"l am going
recommend to the Secretary of War
mat an guaifismeii on tne miruer who
are discontented with camn life be sent
luck home ns soon 11s military exigency ,
n.rinllE" wri.1 Ih. 1. tmritltlnmnt l.iliilf.
I "
tn-.l.iv l.v (inn T.iKlior II HHhs. Assist-
ant Chkf of Staff, who atrlved here to-
' . : "
dav
The General dlspla.ved feeling ovcritlon which this particular aid took was
!i:r ,,f ,iisco",for,!' rmlur', o3J:!,.,v7,Kly1"vral,1 .v.
I don't Know." Iip nam, "v.y (lies , uhiimi bPtwcpn tlie children of Hie twn n llu. of (llt MliniHlll ihiiMim- u hi. li 1 UoZen n,cn wlvrn at each of tlm -rrnt Hrltnln to Himimm- Honor
people to tea to It that the militiamen brine about doj-er tie of fraternity. , i,ni w BT.V ... .. . ,L -LV.. . Inarim bI.imvu. At dark they were still Si"nl Cnhlt reind toTu Sln
d not ImaKine thenirtelxesaHUtiderKoliijr i ... tl1,Kn., i...rt,iinr.H i.. ..... u watching the Hiibniarlne. Io.nivin July 27 (ThnrHday).
great privations.
"Border service In this weather Is not
pleasant at best. It is hot and dusty,
aril those that arc not used to such
servlco naturally feel It. Guardsmen
"cannot expect to find the comforts of
tho Waldorf while on military duty."
upon th.m are pouring Into army head-1
ouarters at Fort Sam Houston. San An- I
tonlo, at tho rafe of 1,500 a week, It
was announced to-day. Several hun
dred 'already have been released.
JAIL FOR MOTOR SPEEDERS.
MatrUtrntra lleelde to Hrop Tinea
. . . .
Jail sentences, without the alternative
fines, await motorists who violate the
of
law flagrantly after August t. They
were warned of this yesterday by Mag
istrate Frederick B. House In Traffic
Court and by Arthur Woods, Police
Commissioner, who sat on tho bench
with thn Magistrate In tlie old Police
Headquarters building, 300 Mott street.
In six weeks sixty persons liavo got
Jail sentences and only one such sen
tence has been suspended, yet nrrests
show no decrease, the Magistrate re
marked. Therefore nfter August 1 he
will Impose heavier penalties.
Commissioner Woods told the motor
ists "the S.r.uo.ooi) persons In the city
who walk are entitled to the same privi
leges on the streets na the owners and
drivers of motors,"
Magistrate House issued 20(1 sum
monses yesterday for owners of New
Jersey automobiles who have exceeded
the courtesies granted by New York,
HEILMAN SAVES GIRL'S LIFE.
Tigers' Itliiht Fielder llearnra .Mo
tor Victim a Others llromi,
Dkthoit. Mich., July 2fi. While nt
Waterworks Park at II o'rlock last
night Harry Hellman, Detroit Tigers'
right fielder, heard a woman scream and
saw an automobile hack off the pier.
Fully dressed Hellman plunged Into
the water, and at the bottom of the river
sni ruled Miss I.ydla Johnson nf Rome,
N Y.. and after a strugglo succeeded In
diagglng her to snfety.
The automobile contained four other
persons, I.eroy Steadman, his wife nnd
three.year-old daughter and Harry
Diaper, Mrs. Hteadman and the child
wcro drowned.
FALL ON SHIP KILLS OFFICER.
,rck Broken In Tumble From Top
nf llreklond.
Chief Officer iluestls of the British
freight steamship Kskasnnl, which sailed
yesterday for Archangel, fell from the
top of thn deckload nf lumber to tho main
deck when the Kskasonl was clearing
Amhroso Channel and broke his neck,
dying Instantly.
The vessel returned to port to get an
other fhlef officer. The body wns landed
at Quiantlne, Huestls hailed from Nova
BcotU and was 5 years old.
PANIC ON ELEVATED
AFTER EXPLOSION
Short Circuit Drives Passen
gers From Ninth Avenue
Train at 23d Street.
A sh'ort circuit caused by a steel
coupling pi n falling on the third rail
started n panic In a Ninth avenue ele
vated ttaln bound north at the Twenty
third street station during the rush bout
last night.
An explosion, followed by n burst of
flame and clouds of smoke, drove the
passengers nut of doors and windows in
a rush to escape. The police say many
would have been Injured If tlie accident
had not happened while the train was
standing nt the station.
Some one In the street turned In an
alarm of tire. Police Sergeant (I'Connell
culled the reserves from the Twentieth
street station and the s)llce and tlremeii
hail partly quieted the disturbance when
a second explosion occurred.
By tills time trains on both local nnd
express tracks were held up from Four
teenth to Twenty-third street and pas
sengers swarmed out on the tracks, dis
regarding Hie danger of the thlid roll.
Trainmen urged them back Into tlie cars.
It was half an hour before the excite
ment subsided.
In the rush to escape James Neesom,
the motorman, who tried to stay the
panic, was knocked down, but not seri
ously hurt. Many of the windows In the
forward cars were broken. Traffic was
held up about half nn hour, and about
f.,000 persons gathered In the street be
low. FLAN $9,000,000 REST CURE.
Promoter In r York Arrnnulnu
Hot SprliiK Deal.
Hot Srntsos, Ark., July :, Residents
ftf tbU cltv are anxiouslv awaltlni: t'le
(result of the conferences being held in
,Vw- York between H. Onffrov of Chicago
n( underwriters ami capitalists of New
York, where. It Is reported, a deal to ob
tain funds for a r.',l't'0,0 sanitarium
for this rlty will be completed this week.
The sanitarium will occupy ten aeies
It. what is known us "the heart of Hot
Springs." It will be the biggest Institu
tion of Its kind In the world. Hot Springs
plans a celebration If the deal is put
through.
J lie ii iiiiiuifrn ui I in- s.tuum lull! llioi'
already secured the hot water permit
rr..,n ti,.. i..ri- ir,,,
The promoters of tlie sanitarium have
...... ..... ....w.w, ... ....v....
R. Onffroy and Jarvls Hunt, an archi
tect, arc here from Chicago to raise capi
tal to build a 13.000. 000 sanitarium at
Hat Kprlnga.' Ark. It was aald last Bight
that the arrangements had practically
been completed.
CHILDREN OF U. S. THANKED.
I Polnrarr Kx tends liratltnile for'
Their AM to War Orphans. (
Paiiis. July 2i. On the occasion of it,
ca by the American Ambassador. Wll-
am G. Sharp, on President' Polnc.iie at !
j;ysee ince to-day the President took
tii ntmmttinitv t,. .n.n... .,. ti, v,.
l)a, sudor his deep appreciation for tlie aid!
l.-lm. nu.n..J.i i... ..i.ii., ...
..viiih ,ll.-IUf'l 11 III' voiiiireii III nut
ll'l,.l ... ... 1.. i ....
"P"
the war In France,
The President declared that the dlree-
FUMES KILL FUMIOAT0R.
rvr t'nnlile Process Fatal
Quarantine rlniplo) re.
Jeremiah Lallane, n ftimlgator of the,
llnnltb (lfflmr nf tt,.. IhM'. f..- r : '
street. Von W.,dswor.h
Staten
'', "? .I"1"' r" "M '"",
In
' . ""' " ... -.. ..in sieams
lilp
Isla de Panay at Pier S
Kast River.
yesterday.
Some time ago the use of sulphur as
a fumlgant was discontinued and cva-
nlile substituted. Sulphur gave forth a
warning smoke cloud, but the more
deadly cyanide Is colorless. Health of.
fleers r.t Quarantine said last night that
tliey Had repeatedly t aut oneil tlie r nicii.
, ysj TCPTIVC UfATT wruTV
iJHliAiH U.LAZS HtLX.
Still Conferring; on MubJret Willi
French llnl eminent,
laiNpoN. July 2n. Keplylnj; In the re.
quest of Walter Hlnes Page, the Ameri
can Ambassador, for expedition of the
answer to the American note legardlng
the detention of malls by British censors
the British Foreign Olllce to-day said
the reply would be sent to tlie 1'nlted
States as soon as possible, hut that Great
Britain still was couferilng on the sub
ject with tlie French Government
RICHARD MURPHY WANTED.
Wnrrnnt Issued for ObtiilnliiB
.Money I nilrr False Pretences.
Nkwai'.k. July 26, A warrant was
Issued In tho First Criminal Court to
day for the nrrest of a mini known ns
Richard Mutphy on a chaiie of obtain
ing money under false pietenres.
Pausing na the son nf n prominent
New York man and a member of the
Slock Kxchange, Murphy organized the
Huyci.H and Investors of America, a
company Intended to sell lists of names
of persons about to conic Into possession
of $1,000 or more through the paying
off of mortgages ntrl the like
By exhibiting checks nnd contracts
now nsserte.1 to be smirloun Murphy
obtained f 1.1 00 from Robert II, Shoe
maker, a Newark lawyer, and 1110 from
Joseph J'J. Horn, a law clerk, It Is as
serted. Ills last place of residence was
the Hotel Alvord, Kast Orange.
ANOTHER PAPER RAISES PRICE.
Milwaukee Free Press Announces
Advance to It Cents.
Mll.WAl'Krg, July 2. -The Milknukrc
Frrr Prrt', a morning newspaper hero,
to-day announced an advance from one
to two cents 111 the price of the paper
for street sales.'
It attributes the advance to the greatly
Increased cost of print paper. The
changed price will be effective August 7.
Rarl of I.ytton Appointed.
IiNPoN,4uly 2. The Karl of Lytlon
has been appointed Civil lml of the Ad
miralty, replacing the Duke nf Devon
shire, who has been designated Gov-ernor-Ueneral
of Canada.
- .-. . . ...iinv... ... iipiii . iiiiiiiff 1 ! 1 J 'I'linl'ii-tvnutuitt- -n".'M.j iiiv ailiajir. or 'I' la
I
ERIE PRESIDENT IN
ACCIDENT ON FERRY
Frederick D. Underwood's Mo
tor Car Nearly Pushed
Into II Ivor.
Frederick D. I'nderwood, president of
tho Krle Hallioad, was within Inches of
death last night when a heavily laden
three and a half ton motor truck of
the Wells Fargo Hxprrss Company,
after a backfire, leaped from the ferry
Imat Suflern Into tho North River off
Twenty-third street.
Mr. Underwood, in his automobile,
was In the path of the runaway truck
as it careened backward. The hubs of
the two vehicles rubbed as the expret.1
wagon mndo Its tearward flight. The .
wagon Is in fifty feet of water, with a
carlo valued at $10,000.
The Suffern was loaded with motor
trucks nnd other vehicles when It started
from I'avonla avenue slip In Jersey City
at S:20 P M. When It came within
fifteen feet or the Twenty-third street
pontoons the chauffeurs and drivers
mndo their preparations for landing.
KniH Spannhncke, driver of the
express motor truck, gave his crank
n few twists to start his engine. With
an explosion that staitled the boat it
throbbed to life. Immediately It started
its backward slide, SpannhacUe up
parently had his gear lever set for re-1
vtrse or had failed to put on his emer-
,.....v i.r-it...
. .. ..
Within Its own icngtti ir.e trucK
g lined momentum that could not lie
...... .i I1-...I. .,f it ii in rumviiv was
tho I'nderwood car. Inside of which weie Hlnvn of the North Gcim.iu Muyd liner mans tried to prevent hlin from regain
..... I.!.. ..r..-i.l.in( n,,,1 tilw n.i'l ii V:ll.t. Neckar After the usual fol nullities Ing his lines.
I.-..- i..., ,,..,,., a if th
. .'. . n ....
It'into the river The' chauffeur In the 'il',, n" withheld from publication "for bat with l.ieut. Boelcke. the famous Ger-1 Sloncvko River captured 4,000 pris
ma tine was powerless 'llowever. the , reasonable time." man fl er. Just survived nn accident such j 011crs amj nvc Kmis.
cr'C'ni.Kr a ttrl,il"K th0 1 " " ' : rv a r w.,r.
Collector of the Port Ryan communl-1 wn" racing across the Held to start for i Moyd George, In a statement published
flTTATjrtCV AK A MTPil I cate.d with the Treasury Department In 1 the lines and had JUst attained top . niht rpret. ... , i, imI,ri-,nre the
GUARDSMAN A HfcHU. Washington, and then Informed Capt. M'eed well over one hundred miles an to n,snt rPrers u ,I,P importance the
! Koenlg that hat request would be ''our when he saw a large biplane dl- Germans attached to the retention of
l.leiil. W exidi.fl of ln.n. liuetl i, Jri,nted. Conseauentlv. the enrco wax rectly fronting his coming to land. It iteipr,. i,. nnntlm- fmm f!mm ,n.
Iteseuf. Man llnrlril lis Cnrln
F.i. Paso. Tex., July 2i. julck think-1
... """
Wesscloft of the medical corps. I.lahth
, , . , ,
""""""V1" "'"'. saved the fe of
Private Curl Weiss of Company r. Klshth
life of
rlvate Carl Weiss of Company V, Klshth
( . . ,.,,. f.n... ,,
(omp.my was digging a sink In the soft,
sandy soil at Camp Cotton to-day when
tlie earth caved In on Weiss, burying
him.
I.leut Wesscloft pot tlie force of men
to work digging him out, nnd when a
part of the earth had been remnvtd he
had Ills men lower him head first Into the
sink ami succeeded In uncovering Welss's
head by digging the eartli away with his
hands. Weiss was not seriously Injured.
MANHATTAN SAVES $124,404.
'"'""Bh
resident's Report fliovvs
lleonomy llfleeled In till.".
It cost $12t,tnt less to run the Bnr-
lough of Manhattan In tl'l.". than In 1!'H
., ,
and -
less than in lf'13. according
resident .Marcus M. Marks's
In llnr.iili.-li Pr..l,I..Mt Mn.n M Marti-.
annual report for l'.'l.'i. The total cot
of running the borough was K'.DtlS.fir.t.S I
i
t ;.,vigs re ,.1 after deducing
I'rs.u!,l..,tt Od.b. ..II.. ..,........ .U .. I
iii ir-i:. s.to'i..s3t' baths were furnished
(1 those who wanted t'lem at about one cent
..T,hnw,V;',S '.V' "'"-'"f .ler
'"" i s t i tot t,iii- fi inxiiiiifs (Ji..lir.
J f11'-
bathe.
to -ay nothinc of the thirteen Indoor
r, ..i in --u .'.. I llill.llUK.
the repel t sas, for many of Manhattan's
eers are tiom 50 to 7."i cars old.
COLONEL STIRS OYSTER BAY.
tHTers llrflnltr iMana for I'lrnniip to
Unit Pnrnlssln.
Bvv, 1.. I., July
OvsTKIl Bvv. 1.. I.. July !. "The
hygienic conditions of this town are
I"3 I 1 II til.. nul ,xf o.f.t -i.i.l inn .. ' i'iUir.v,IIUHll n HUT. .VI
I f -ti! to-nlKM at a mooting attended by imii pfcW tip the wake of th miI-
! practically ee.y irnldent of the village. ; nunne In American watetn and win
Tben, to pievent an Invwdon of In- ihv p' arul direction to vj?e:s pa-
f ....It. ....I. .... . ...... llf.Jtl.er ..Itlirl.l , .1... ..s-
. ""r'""K m uh.ii.iuus, . . iiuhwiph
dl p IHir.llVf!!. I' 1 O Illlt'l II, 'I U CO Ml
mlticcs appointed to start at mice the
work of building nil Isolation ho.pltal
...... .. ,.,,- ,.,,,., v.,,, ,,-
He will head the
committee which Is to raise the neccs- I
sary funds,
"The signposts of oyster Bay are tin
cans and "Id new.spnpers, This town
never had a leal che.inup, but it is going
to get one now," he said, Later when
there was discussion over the location
of the pioposid hospital the Colonel was
cheered for his suggestion that tho
saloon near the iiillrn.id station be taken,
SHOWERS F0RECASTT0-DAY,
e.v York To lie Sprinkled Willie
West llrlm I'p.
They were pr.ijlng for rain In the
patched West yesterday, while, folks
along this nnd contiguous coasts hoped
the pluvial bungholc might be stopped a
while.
The gentle wind that came with an un
usual setles of showers brought from the
Jersey swamps a plague nf mosquitoes
that kept the girls with the gauzy white
stockings pretty busy actively swattlnir.
When It was not raining the air was so,
dense wltli molstiiie t at It was sweat-
Ing and mankind was doing likewise.
The showers were not the sort that
cover a great teirltory all nt once, but a
stllctly local vailety. It was raining In
Harlem when It was merely damp In
Brooklyn and the sun shining at the
Battery. And there will be more rain
this morning In the form of Intermittent
showers, according to the Weather!
Bureau forecast. To-morrow may be
fair and warm.
Drought and Heat Wnve In Writ.
CllicAiio, July 20, -Temperatures
from r to 103 degrees were reported
to-day by Government observers In nil
pints of tho corn belt, nK far west as
Sioux Falls, H. D. In Chicago Itself, tho
heat did not reach the season's maxi
mum, wnicii was set last .Monday, hut
the deaths of twenty-thren Infants were
raced directly or liidlrectly to the- heat
to-day by John Dill Roherlson. Health
Commissioner.
Through Service South tla Southern Hallway,
Tmlii" running through la Atlanta. Illr
inlnEhaiu, New Orlenns. Memphis, rimttn
nnujtu. etc, via l.jni;hburc, Bristol and
Knomlll". I II ti In a and steeping car service,
N, Y, Utiles, 261 Fifth A:Adl.
DEUTSGHLAND GETS
CLEARANCE PAPERS
Koenijr Says Leaving Time Is
Indefinite; Much Activ
ity Aboard.
Baltimore, July 26. The German
submarine liner Dcutschland was cleared
to-day by her commander, Capt. Paul
Koenlg, for "Bremen or any other port
In Oorniany."
Secrecy surrounds tne plans of Capt,
Koenlg. After obtaining his clearance
papers he said in reply to questions
asked for the benellt of the Maryland i
Pilot.. Association that the exact time
of his departure was Indellnlte. To-
night he had made no arrangements for
pilot,
But he can oblaln one almost
Immediately atomy tlmu he desires.
Carl A. I.uederltz. German Consul
here, said lo-nlght the Deutsclilalid
would not leave for u week, When
asked why her departure was further
delayed after clearance papers had been
taken out, tlie Consul would vouchsafe
no explanation.
Mr. I.uederltz also announced the
postponement of a garden party that
vvuii tri htivn luu.n Itflit til tila Htihiirtiini
Lome to. night. This was owing to the I
Inability of Ambassador von Bcrnstorff
to be present, be sold. j
Agents o: ttie sulisea freighter an-,
nounced this afternoon that she was
ready for the return voyage to Germany
and that clearance papers would be oh-1
talned later in the day Tills Inform.!-
lion was conveyed to tne custom lioue
1.1. . 1. - ..I . ..,.
"iiv u, mc 1-ir.ti.un.f ion nj
Kept open for Capt. Koenlg, who arrived
shortly before 4 o'clock with Capt.
the commander of the submarine re-
ntiatid tli.it til. irtititfoitt tt'ltii.h I,. 1. 1
described ofllclally as being composed of
'teiiei.il tiierchandls. '
i,g wa. flom ,h, building the little
c.nitulti tarried Ions enough to shake
ilnrii- w.i(n ...,i ..nirini. uh ,.1-1.,1
I ,m w,fe .,....,.
; "'"w mi.i, pcvui
H,ini a wafe oyaice.
, Th tii? Ti.m.n.
. ThH Tlinni.t v. Timmtn. h-mm.
met the Deutschl.ind off the Virginia
Capes upon her arrival and has been
constantly near her ever since, pulled
away from the pier late to-day and went
to a nearby coal pier, where she filled
ner iiuiiKcrs, mrecuv nnerwnrii wie re-
turned to the Dcutschhtnd's pier, and
several hours later It was apparent that
she was maintaining a full head of
steam.
Activity on Board.
This caused the belief that the start
for the capes might be made during tlie
ll., ',-,., .. . , , , :, ,
t, L ... " 1 ! "'S' howew' ,,oll,ie'l
to give any Information regarding the
time of his departure.
All day thrre was activity aboard
the Deutsclilalid. Tlie engines were
tested again and again, anil twice the
vessel was submerged until her keel
lesteil 011 the bottom in her slip,
,, ''" "''emeu to "e very
1M. u . . I - .
i loirresuiiK IO
persons nbo.ud two Brit-
!.,.!:.frell',rr u',lc'.' u:v ,:lro1"""1
1 TO GUARD NEUTRALITY.
I .
'Wnr.hlp. Sent to Watch Forelun
Cruisers Off Vlrulnln t'nprs.
Washington, July 2fi. Tlie fart that
one of the cruisers of the British i..,r.
don of warships lying olT the capes In
' Walt for the Conn in submarine Deutsch
l.ind entertd American territorial waters
has prompted the Navy D.jiai tment to
take liumtdlate nieastiies to ...ifemiaril
'""""m"1 neutrality. The ai
nmred cruiser North Carolina, curving
aviators nnd aircraft, and three dest'io.v
ers have been assigned to remain In the
vicinity of the sea buoy off Cape Heniv
It In pointed out that If British
I '"""i'i n- i'ir ii til ill r ir i r
, destro) Ing the undersea boat might be
faclllta.e...
ON WATCH FOR BREMEN.
Allied fr r lleporint ,,!,,
of Heanfort Inlet. .. C. j
llEAl'tMHT, N. C July 21 At least
one cruiser at the allied Powers was"'-'
lleved to be standing off Beaufort Inlet I
to. night in nn attempt to prevent the I
entrance of the (in man submarine '
Bremen, i
Tlie keeper of the Fort Mncon const
guard station reHirted that n strange
warship was bi sight off the Inlet
throughout tlie afternoon.
It was rumored to-day that the Bremen
might in rive here to-night.
PAROLES MAN TO OSBORNE.
Ilnltlnmrr .ImlRe Kiprru...
In Prison Reform.
la I III
Bai.TIMoiik. July 2ti. "Cln Mllllstil ni-nw
I have placed von In it position of cieat
trust," said Judge Gorier to-day In the
. IIHI1..I i.i.ir. iu eoiiuuei i.. Iticlnilils, ' 'n,,, sKi,PrH f the. round robin nine
rXhVBHonseW,r,.0n,,'.a,,"l,'K "'""I fr"n! Prl'-mers i'lthe Wes S' de prist M y
l.elg, Bimsel nf Baltimore on a forged i third street, near Klghth avenue who
r i.1:,,;,:l" ih "f """ ! . ..'ni'lalned of conditions , be ta i. we e
Osborne f Sing Sing prison.
"You stand as a representative of tlie
system of prison reform which Mr. (is.
borne Is attempting to Introduce at Slni?
Slng. Many people honestly believe he
Is wrong. I'm not one of them, l be-
neve no is right, .Mr. Osborne bus fnltli
In you, To express my confidence hi
him and what he has d ne for people like
ou I parole you In his care,"
Thero wcro only three witnesses, War
den Oslsirne, l-lgh Bonscl and Richards
himself,
Austria Protests Sinking.
A M STKI'.n V M . July 2li. Hat on Bllrllltl
. .... Itu1i..x A list rn-lliii..i . . ts
! " ...V., i.. ,li ' . '".l,Kn
I ,,al ieiresenlatlves In Vienna, says n
. ,,.,,.Kr, received bete to-day from the
! Austrian capital, protesting against the
sinking
of Austilnn merchantmen
by
Kntcnto Allies' submarines.
flBKAT IIRAK SI'RINfi IVATKR.
0r. the cats of six (lass stoppered bottles.
A4v.
HIDES IN CLOUD TO
TRAP GERMAN FLIER
Bert Hall, American Aviator,
Sends Kiiciny Spinning
Earthward.
KSCAPKS BAIN OF SHELLS
Lufliery Buried Under Wreck
age of Machine, but Is
Taken Out Unhurt.
Speeint Cable t)tspnteh to Tile Sus.
Uinpon, July 2fi, A few days after
their escape In a thrilling air fight with
Herman aviators, described In des
patches to Titr. Sf.v Inst Saturday, Hert
. Hall nnd Klflln Itnekuell. the two mem-
i,, . , . , ,..i.,, n,.,.n.
,'f 1 " ' ranro-Amerlcan aviators
squadron In thu west, hud another haz-
ardous battle, details or which are given
In a letter from A, C. I.ane, Tub Sun's
correspondent with the flyer corps, who
writes :
"Hert Hall, flying alone over the
trenches, came upon three German ma
chines. Ho was over a cloud, so they
did not see him. He waited for a
chance and soon one German circled off
n short distance from the others. Hall
dived for him and opened fire at forty
yards. The German turned the nose of
bis machine upwatd, slipped back and
fell, spinning downward, lie hit the
ground on a broad band of earth mark-
Ing where lighting had taken place.
"Tho machine fell near a spot which
figured In recent olllclal bulletins. Its
vvmie ncuy glistening in me sun. nan
l.t......frH.l ..,.1 . 1 .... 1 l..... f A.. n V. n . . I
i n.-iuu, .in., ,.i.,,,.-ii ,.. iui u'f ,
view, vvliereupou no received violent
shelling from below. Two other Ger-
"I-ufliery. another American aviator.
ttlid nn .flile ft l.it.f bml 11 KtirCHRsf til com-
'" lnw to pass under nnd too close
to go over. I.tifbery. fearing a collision
would result In both machines being set
anre. inen a snarji iiirn.
"During this act the wing of his ma
chine touched the ground. The machine'
. made two complete circles, turning on Its
hack nnd plunging its nose Into the
Kround, then turned over ngaln. The!
motor was wrenched from the machine,'
the wings were shattered and the air-j
( craft's body was crushed. Men rushed
.tic nicvftusc
They found Lufbery pinned under the i.ioyn v.eorge poinis out uiai w itn tne
steel struts, to whose strength he owes capture of I'ozleres the last of these vll
hls life. Gasoline was pouring over his lages has fallen Into the Allies' hands,
face, lie was extricated and was not He further cites that to-day's German
even bruised. 'claim of tlie repulse of an attack on
"Corporal Dudley Hill of Peeksklll, N. I Trones Wood must be a cleiio.it error, ns
Y . Sergt. Klllln Rockwell and a French Trones Wood has been In Bfttlsh posses
lieutenant nttnckrd .1 Germnn aviator sum since July I !
within the German lines. Hill leading.
"...... vjv,,i,.,ii imi.-.-. 11111 ii'. tiling,
The German was forced to land Just
within his own lines, so the exploit does
not count ofllclally, but ns the German's
landing was probably due to Hill's shoot -
Ing it may give Hill a citation. He nl-
ready has been proposed for promotion
to the tank of sergeant.'
TITLES OF GERMANS DOOMED.
The
loll; Mall says It Is expected Premier
, .squitli will announce in the llou-e of selves in the town of Pnzleies
j Commons to-day that three Germans) "Further to the i ast on Foreauv Wood
who still hold British titles of nobility ' and near Longueval minor British at
are to be depilved of their British I tacks were repulsed. Attempted attacks
honors. on Tron's Wood were observed ami fins.
The Duke of Albany, the Duke of i Hated by German flic."
Cumberland and Prince Albert of Schles- The capture of puzleres gives the Brit-wlg-Ilolsteln
are tlie jiersons Involved. I 'h troops doniiuatlnn of the highest
The Duke of Alb my and the Puke of I point overlooking the plateau on which
' I'umberdaiid are in line of succession to ' the German lines extend to the eastward,
the Htltlsh throne, although remotely. Some of the mot stulilsirii tightltig
, i in the recent British offensive, which
1 Prince Leopold, Duke of Albany, was now has lasted nearly a month, has oc
born In Claremont July 1ft, ISM. and enrred In tho stieels of tills village.
married In l!m." Princess Victoria Ad-
clnldo of Srhlesvvlg Ilolsteln. He Is a
Knight of the Garter. His sister. Prin
cess Alice Marie, married Alexander
Prince f Teck.
Krnst August Huke of Cumberland
was born at Hanover September 21,
IMS, the sou of King George V. of Han-
m-at
itiltaln and In land and a Knight of the
Carter. His son, Prince Hrnsl August.
lie Is a Prince Royal of Gieat
marrieii tne ivaiser s youngest ilnuirbter.
GERMAN STEAMER SUNK.
,. ,, Th , rre Arr
....
,",r,"', """
I.oniwin, July 21. A Stettin despatch
to Router's sas that the German
steamer Norderney, bound from Sweden
for Germany and laden with Iron ore.
' has been sunk north of Aroona, Rugen
Island, The captain ami three of the
crew were drowned.
Tlie Norderney, which recently had
been III the coasting service of Ger
many, mc.isuied .1,19. tons gross. She
was built In issfl.
TO IMPROVE WEST SIDE JAIL.
lirniid Jury Fluda Prisoners' Hound
Robin Wns ItlKht.
witnesses before the Grand Jury yester
day In nn Inquiry ordered by Jurine
Mulqlicell of General Sessions. Their
testimony was chocked with observations
of the Jurors who went through the
prison on Tuesday
It is iiinlei stouil that the situltaiy
laxity and carelessness In tlie treatment
of Inmates recited by the witnesses i-o-
Infilled wllh the Impressions nf the
Gland .liny
Burdette G. Lewis, Commissioner of
Coireclloii, and Peter Million, wnrden of
1 lie prison, nlsii testified, The Grand
III..' iv Ml lt..'ii ini'.rnl .ll i. ll.in.u.ia
I t.i.iiuv A lireselllment Is e-.n.,'t,.,l ' nl
... '. ... .
I ,,,e ",'"K
Germnn l.nnn Pnld In Cash.
Rfni.lN thy wireless to Suvvllle), July i
2fi, The rourth Gcrinnii war loan lias
been paid fully In cash, Money bor
rowed from loan banks on collateral for
the war loan totals only r, per cent, of
the entire amount of the loan.
POZIERES FALLS
fQ yijg
,WH0
STILLJDSH ON
British Get Domination of
Highest Point Overlook
ing German Lines.
ADVANCE IX WEST
OF VAST IMPORTANCE
Kaiser Rushed Troops
From Verdun; Lost in
Terrific Rattle.
LLOYD GEORGE POINTS
TO STRATEGIC VALUE
Erzingnn Taken by Rus
sians; Gen. Sakharoff
Captures -1,000 Men.
hn.vnoN', July 28. Tho Allies are able
to congratulate themselves on another
good day's record with the capture of
the Important positions of Fozlerea on
tho western front nnd Kr7.lng.1n In
Armenia, while tho Russian General
Sakharoff In tho fighting on the
, ,
, visional order Issued In Contnlmalson
on July 11 ns follows:
I Furthermore, tho conversion of
villages Into strong points la of the
0....1. ..11,
' , ., .
nre I'ozleres, Contnlmalson, tho two
Ilczantlns and I.onguevjl.
Tak String- of Vlllaitra.
The opinion of the military it His in
. 1, ,'iiiilii hi mi- iiiiiuiiiv 11 ins 111
London Is that no positions sn strong 11s
the British ale now successfully attack-
Ing will bo I. mini betvvetn I'ozleres and
1 Bapaunie; otherwise, thty argue, the
Germans would not have rl-ked bringing
Hoops and guns from the Verdun sector
to defend I'ozleres And It Is Inferred
fioni Indications In tl..- olllclal despatches
that the British are already beginning to
establish themselves on both sides of the
load fiom I'ozleres to Bnpaume.
Berlin Admits He lent.
The capture of I'ozleres Is admitted b
.the German War Olllce, which siys In
the report issued to-day
i "Brltlli tioops have established them-
which the Germans had fortified until It
became ono of the strongest points of
their line.
Gained, Lost, Regained.
livery house had to be fought fur nnd
taken separately, and the British, after
obtaining possession of a considerable
portion of the village, were subjected to
severe counter attacks which they with
stood successfully for several days and
then In turn again seized the Initiative
until the wholo place fell before their
onslaught.
The German General Staff regarded
the possession of I'ozleres of such Im
portance that they even brought reen
forcements from the Verdun sector, and
these held tenaciously to part of the vil
lage until driven out or captured In the
hand to hand lighting,
Tlie night was calm on the French
front south of the River Somme, saya
the olllclal statement Issued this after
noon by the French War Department,
In the capture by the French of a group
of houses south of Kstrees on Monday
117 Germans were made prisoners and
three new German guns were taken.
ERZINGAN CAPTURED.
Russians, FlghlliiK Fiercely, Clear
Way Through Armenia.
London. July 2fi, HrrJitsan, th
strongly fortified Turkish city In cen
tral Armenia, fell jrslerdav 'n'o the
hands nf the Russian Caucasus army
under Grand Duke Nicholas, who thus
has clean d the whole of Aimenl.i of
Turk.
With the capture of lltv'ngaii thn
Russians hnve removed the strongest
obstacle on the mail to Sivas, Augor
and Constantinople They nre now ex
pected to drive towatd Slvns, 1.10 miles
to the west, and thus carry tlie.r ad
vance to the In-art uf tl.o Ottoman l'.m
Nothing Is known as vet of th
fate of the Krzlngan ganison, but It m
believed Its bulk escaped, the Tin ks liav -
Ing been lepoited some Line ago to lis
preparing tlie evacuation oi tne ciij.
The Fiercest I'luhtlnR.
Some of the lleicest lighting nf the
war l lielleved l" have prrcded the
evacuation of the Vrmeni.in forties,
town, which was the he.vdqu.ti lers of
Ihe Fnui th Turkish Army Coips nnd has
large barracks and military factories
While the gineinl sti.itdj In the Cau
casus Is In the bands of Grand Duke
Nlrholas, thn opeiatlons aKiilnst 111 xlng ill
were conducted b.v ilen Youdi nlich, who
took Frenini on IVIu u.iry I.'. mm ( Th"
tiews oi tne laivsi euni-m "i u- v ...n .-.
