VOL. XL.
peton or vicinity.
/A
wh.ich we began to hear as soon^
as we reached Bismarck. We
the members of Compnay I. Wt,"
found a creat tented citv on a
most beautiful camping ground
VISIT TO FORT UNCO 'eminent. I was informed on good
pany they were members. To Irrigators ana ice.
our surprise they responded that
they were members of Company Paftrl°tic citizens of the
I, though not residents of Wall-*
Thpv"i\ifniM«!"
pd'ns ihat Vhev'iiiauirp
1
^about the.luire
e.__Yb thaLt_y.A^U11®:Lab\VL^\t
various eompainies and linalty jfulV'
selected Company I as the best |,
the McKenzie Hotel, and he took1
made up of verdant hills decorat ?'on,,b'
ed in places with natural woods.*
The tents and streets of the camp
are kept scrupulously clean, be-
day, and food was being prepared
and distributsd to the soilders, all "e"
tary standpoint is all that could ?°,
ings consist ol residences, bar-
and gymnasium, and are all kepi, ^,,5 .. ,J(
in good condition by the care-
aker in charge was'even in- .,
teresting to visit the stables in
de.aehment, of Kvn ,omn
detachment of two compaines
of regular, and to read the names
of those horses-tm s!a!i-or manger
Mr. Editor: Last w-a'W .-s authority that the rations issuedj All of the children of Mrs. 0. A.
Forbes, Vernon and fA-jHSrihe the government are only one-jj|
pleasure of visiting tht-J. clonal amoun which the boys the exception of Myrtie's husband,
Guard at Fort Lincoln and it has,
ar now
occured to me that there may be.i't*tl'a rations are purchased with'the last of this week for a family
many of your readers who would Ihe private money of the company -emuon.
enjoy a brief report of our visit. (This is an important matter be- They are Mrs. Lauder, wife of
We were much gratified at thei®AUse was Napoleon who said judge Lauder of Wahpeton Mrs.
many good accounts we heard a- "'avels on its stomach. Hazen of Lariinore, Mrs. Shaw «1"
bout Company I and its Captian,i !?r» -n
et
ar
ess
rived in Bismarck late in the even.^ netting, aiul pi
ing and upon alighting from the nnrt
train saw two National Guards-J"®.?/"
man, and inquired of what Com-:J??s .®fe
ain
usual
us out- to the Fort where we werj ®'1'1a is mme too pleasant, but
very pleased to meet and greet ail
,eI
1 a,
with pleasant scenery on all sides jj"
€d l0 ba
lto haV(J nol
ol Inaiuw of uur
wanJ Ul((S0 who
a
m«s.
In the evening we had the plea. «™*TED STATES CIVIL-SERVICfc
sure of seeing the Governor re­
view the guardsman, and to wit
ness the dress parade on that oc
cassion of which moving pictures!
were taken. The various com-!
apnies have made good use of!
their time in Fort Lincoln, and
appear to be quite well trained
in exerc
one body they present the ap- may occur in this position in
pearance of being quite an army. Department Service, Washington.
The boys were all rn good health, ID. C., unless it is found to be in
except some who were rendered the interest of the service to fill
ill by their innoculation and vac- any vacancy by reinstatement,
dilation. All of [hem had wounds transfer, or promotion.
o.n theii- arms, caused by iunoeula The usual entrance salary for
lion and vaccination, and every this position is SKiO or *itoo a
arm movement was therefore year a few appointments are
most painful, but that did nut. dc-'at $l,0u0 and extremely few at
lej- the manly Ijoys from going^J igher salaries. Promotion is
through their drills or exercises •••asonably rapid for those wlios,
which they bravely 'lid withouij prove satis ''actory.
murmur or complaint. All of the Full informal ion in regard to
boys were anxious to entrain lor he scope and character of Ihi.
th• .Mexican border which they .examination,! including sampl-
did last Saturday. The boys questions, is contained in Form
were very hospitable and we weiv 424. "Information for Applicants
invited to take both dinner and Jor Stenographer and ypewriti
supper at the camp. We accepied Examinations."
the latter invitation, and enjoy-. ne demand for eligibles for
Vice announces an open conipeti-
as a verv imnosinu and in- women, on «th. iota «t
spiring sight to see
parade. There are nearly U'OO sf«»r of idigible.s -resulting from
of the guar'lsman, and when the his examination certification will
"was *v:ry is.iT*
i* l*? I *ikJ I 4 ,. *. ii i' .. I i.1.
various companies are *een in be made to fill vacancies as they j'lfi
ed a v:ry nice meal at Captain (this position has r«.'cently been!
Thompson's 'able at which Ar- p-afer than the supply. Qiialilied|
nold was also an invited guest. j,.»rsons are urged fo enter thi-!
Company I is reoguized as i!ie id' examination.
the best trained and best behaved Ag •. 18 years or over on th E|
compaines in the regiment, and i'ate of the examination. 3
it is i:ertainly made up through-! ruder an act of Congress ap-|J|
out the splendid young men. jdicants desiring fo become h'i-|Bj
'this company should reqejv jiihle for permanent appoint-.^
more generous Ireatme-it from juent to the apportioned servlc 8g
the citv of Wahpeton. Upon in- tin Washington. |. C., must be ex- S
(piiry I found that other cities tnmined in the State or Terriory
have been much more generous jn which they reside and have
toward their companies than we J.een actually domiciled in such
have been, and I trust that some- State or Territory for ar 'east, one
thing more can be done for the'year previous to the examination:
comfort and conveniences of our ithey must have the county of
company while on duty on the iicer's certificate in the applies
Mexican border. It would not ilion form executed, to which a
seem to be too much for the meuJlO-cent internalaivvvenue stamp
who stay at home to be somewhat must be attached.
generous toward the boys who Applicants must present to the
have had the patriotism to go to itxaminer on the day of the ex
the front at a ime when danger lamination their photographs, tak
threatened. Ihe fuud which i?rien within two years, securely
piratically raised is not, as some'pasted in the space provided on
seem to think, for the purchase the admission cards sent them
of luxurfies but for absolute .nec- after their applicaions are filed.
essities, many of which the gov- '.Tintypes or proofs will not be
eminent, on account of lack of accepted.
pflepardenes, finds itself unable' This examination is open to all.
to furnish. For instance some .citizens of the United States whoifc
of the boys are wearing leggings meet the requirements.
which do nut match. The shoes/ Persons desiring this examina
issued are of the cheapest and lion should apply at once foi
coarsest material^, and heavy Forms 304 and 1424, giving title
and ill-litting. Many of the boy? of examination desired, to the
are wearing their old shoes in- Secretary U. S. Civil Service Com- S
stead of those issued by the gov- mission, St. Paul, Minn. IT
~g*v.
I
8Ure
°F j*
supplies, the life of the
absolute necessities
5
,,
.'°
|!J
ernnient does.
ean
daily consuming. '^'""'Prof. Dennis will be in Wahpeton
we
a
8P°jj,n.S
f° ^,
an re
act
.'"'e. unneces
hardships which h« is oblig- riers
do
fP
8
,he
oPer
must
^F .1 f|
say,u|? tha ,t ls ,e duty
s*f
cause no crumbs or waste paper regardless of what he gove- his home in Mooreton, returning
or other unsightly or fly-at-
tractingT substances are p'ermiU ^government finds itself unable An addition is being built onto
«d to irather or acculumate in the J®/? unprepared perform its ie house
Alhough it was a warm .duty. We who are safe at farm.
honn
ar®
not in hat
1 an an 8ho
who slay at home
iey
racks, dormitory,| dining rooms, j.
j,avfi
a W
mons ra
Jl n1" Idaho, Mrs. Dennis of Chicago.
„.
un
COI.n-,in
1^s c.0IJ1Pan.y
un
d,
ais
om,nun,t ,1 whlch com
is
P'
into tl,e facts that
s, lou
'd in each case be mad*
,ar as
P"*?'*'«• ,, ^ven •whc:
one to join and did so. Friday^ Soy?innuMit al»le and pre
morning- we met Paul Sewrey at Bart'd ''duip its soldiers with BARNEY BEAMINGS
Mond
plain duty to-
,^
which the calvary horses wcej yours for the uood of the Co. I'mere, Saturday.
kept when the Fort was used by'^j
tve illlisl ed
Ju] 1916
)s Wall|
EXAMINATION
Stenographer and Typewriter
AUGUST 9th, 1916
they present the ap- may occur in this position in the-J "iT-VVVl-. Tl'.iel w-ls^l WuIum^'
THE WAHPETON TIMES
WAHPETON, RICHLAND COUNTY, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY JULY 27th, 1916.
A FAMILY REUNION
jth their families with
Arthur McKean of Isabelle, South
's properly fed. 1
here Dakota and Charley McKean of
se
The McKean family was among
the early settiers of Wahpeton
ui nau|..«-i,uii
have always been prominent
social business and political
circles.
ro
Dennis is soendiim hi
to anyone who will in- summer vacation in Europe mak.
SUI''1
Jlund should in each ease l.e nia-L, 1
spending hi.
impossible for him to be
i0St nl at ,,I(J
gathering.
Mrs. Ben Fink was in Wahpe
ton Friday.
J. L. Rchmel now drives a Cha!
6."
without complaint. It1 Walter Krause left Tuesday for
A
tt
de a
*overninent to furnish gcrwood by auto rout- on Satur-
applies for its soldiers, day.
4
that we perform °"ri Heuben betber spent teunday at
lnu
Ill this instance here Mondby.
011
an the J. G*. Forbers
°.
predica-l Burl Adams autoed to Moore-
ur aU
over the grounds not a fly was -"Otism by being loyal to our| Mrs. b. \v. Becker was a Wall.
seen and the camp from a sani-
fiold,ers boys who
ne lhe
/toij!
MoFlday-
have bravely peton visitor Saturday.
be expected integrity ol the United States and Lisbon, N. D., the latter part of head College gave a readi
.ij !_•„„» "i #he property interests Of the men the week after sipending a few
Old Fort Lincoln is an interest-
ing institution with many well, i^t the ciizeus of Walipeonl Mrs. L. E. Moffet and daughter
built and capacious buildings ji)aintain their higti standing for J«nnie were in Wahpeton and
about thirty all. 1 hese build-
|atri0tisiii
border to defend the I Maurice Conde returned to Miss Berghot Caspery ol
days here.
in this situation as Breckenridge, Thursday.
ays done in the past! Leonard Kressin opened the
thai love of a harvest season by cutting wheat,
Carl Zuicli autoed to Wahpe
on, Thursday.
Mrs. Ben Fink was in Wynd-
Miss Agnes Kenney was among
„. on visitors
AUUUSTStn, 1»1« L. Re I and family and
xercises and maneuvors, and iand typewriter, for both men and'... ..i^iiin.r -ii iiie,W"
Folsom attended a Mis
Barney, 1
bursday., 'Abftfp v. )llermore. Oollecttir, Mor
Mr. yuilan a Mooreton banker
meeting at the home of Mrs. Ball
in Wyudinere on Friday.
Mrs. Kalwitter of Seward, Neb.,
is visiting- at the home of her son,
Paul and family.
The Misses Anna and Martha
CHRISTINE
Special to the Times:
Banker O. J. Strand was a Far-i
go :nisin«ss visitor, Monday.
Miss Edna Skjonsby returned
from Litchfield, bringing as her
guest Miss Helen Spencer, form
erly of this place.
The Yunog Peoples' Society of
the Iforweigan United Lutheran
church held a delightful meeting
at the church on Sunday evening
Mr. George To^|i(fsoii presided,
and opened the meeting with a
scripture reading.
of Moor.
js
,'Vas in our village Friday. tec, Miss Lottie Tollefson and Mrs
A. Folsom is on a trip to the Arthur Moe.
icities and various points in S.j
A(Jam hollK lh of lown
Illl( av
ive examination for stenographer ^7. ^,,. Mrs Johnson of lom-
a,|d
,M
si.J?hl!l
L-'
ading and
also sang two beautiful solos
Miss Jean Edwards read a
choice selection.
Mrs. N. J. A. Johnson sang a
fine solo.
Jjellerniore, Program CominiU
{nv
fl
,,
D. and Minnesota, this week. Mrs. F. I). Worc-est«'r, writes 'Il'llmg Company. I lie Equity ..
a
.. ... .. the C. E. Harris family visited at j,,. js convalescansing and hones yesterday, and hereafter the nam/.. ..i-....
the tinted States Civil Ser-, ,1(.
i8
°.W:
l,K
?"V
is an
mi. j-.iia iniei \%a.- alipe- imoi, j„ ||,
O. F. W'ainslev
Friday for their home al
Sauk Center. Minn., having spent
a few days here with relatives.
Mr. Murdock of Little Hock.
Ark is visiting his son Hal Mu.
dock and family.
'The ladies aid so iely will niee
,re ad
01,1
«'ve mm a roy-il welcome. I
ma
)s
at the home of Mrs. o. I». hee|y. t,|i((e legislature and did good cut the country.
on Thursday afternoon, Angus!
Wll
AT THE GRAND THEATRE
THURSDAY, JULY 27th
"THAT SORT," A Vitagraph Blue Ribbon Feature
FRIDAY, JULY 28th
CHARLIE CHAPLIN "THE FIREMAN"
SATURDAY, JULY 29th 1
"APRIL" A Mutual Master Picture De Luxe
SUNDAY, JULY 30th
"INTO THE PRIMITIVE" A Vitagraph Blue Ribbon Feaure,
Starring KATHLIN WILLIAMS
MONDAY, JULY 31st
The Celebrated Actress "KITTY GORDEN'
"HER MARTERNAL RIGHT"
TUESDAY, AUGUST 1st
"HENRY WALTHALL" in "THE BIRTH OF MAN"
WESDNESDAY, AUGUST 2nd
The Third Chapter of the "SECRET OF THE SUBMARINE"
''w
1
•turdy pioneer: this dislrici.j A.
•Jl'd- will spend a few days here before ihe old firm has been reiained. lie,
Mr. and Mrs. H. If. Ih'rg went proceeding to visit friends and is an excellent man, fully under
hi-ough our village Sunday on j-clatives (here. May God bless .stands I lie business, and while lie
heir way home to Milnor alter (hem and theirs. We are all rovers coiisid u-abe territory it
ittemling the Stale |-air a l-argo, o|i|(|
S(lf
week. auaiM. 'Their visits every yearj
.Mrs. Herb Moyer and Mrs. A. makes us glad.
«ioiiary| The funeral Helen Sullivan
Seeling St. Charlej', Minn., iCome Quickly, Even So Come can be had in the building. The
came Friday to visit with their Lord Jesus."The preacher spoke gynasium is completely outfitted
brother, Fred and wife. !of the importance of doing sei»- with every kind of exercising de-
Gus Duenow and wife, Pauijvice for God, at every moment ol'vice, including wrestling mats
Kalwitter, his wife and mother .our lives, to come into God's pr dumbbells, trapeze, hurdles, and
spent Friday at the H. C. Minde- sence regularly, and partake of many other devices. A running
man and C. Simdorn homes north |the Sacrement of the Saviour track is placed around the upper
of town. jWith faithful hearts of confession'part of the gynasium and foot
.and devotion. The great danger traces are held there frequetnly.
REPUBLICAN ORGANIZE Tiof the present day is, to neglect One of the main features of the
The precent committeemen of the house of God and its blessed^luiilding is the bowling alley in
the republican party met in the
court house last Wednesday, ac
cording to law and organized by
electing Ross Fowler as chairman
John 'Thompson, secretary and
an executive committee as fol-:her in the Savior, and be had at reasonable prices and
lows: W. .J. Robinson, E. H.Jveryconfidence
Myhra, R. J. Hughes, E. M. Jones ,with Him which is far belter thnv.has the use of all the pivileges of
and M. Myhra R. J. Hughes all human joy. She received llie.a member of (he institution.
was vieeted member ol" state
state central committee from the
12h disrict and Ross Fowler from
•lie 37th district.
Refreshments were served. .Commercial Club. Hon. C. A.
Miss i.otti.* Tollefson presiding|Nash, the Secreary of the Fair ,.«.|iouse shuts off from view the
at. the tables was indefatigable in his efforts to
lee Skjonsby, took place from thc|-oom there is reading matter suit
urst, United Norweigan Lutheran td to older people. There is a
hurch at Kargo, N. D., on Friday ig dining room in which get-to
ft'ternoon. Rev. K. Anderson, -ether dinners are held at dif
»astor, delivered a memorial ser- erent times.
lion from the words, *'Behdd 11 Every kind of i.idoor exercise
comforts, in all th* varied ex- Jlie basement. These are kept' in
periences of human life. The'perfect condition all the time and
pastor said, 'it was my privilege farcin use every day.
to visit the departed during her I A large nuinb»r of rooms for
Past illness. She testified to me'men are allin included. These can
An ••fieri,ng tor missions wasjli'istruct. and entertain all coiners. .,||t purtitms of II wall,.
taken. The election of officers jf.'he exliihits in every departeiiMit anj prisoners s.*nt to clean'
took place, and Ihe following werejWas the best ever. Stone the j|M, j,a||
elected. biusic man gave every vv itor a|
President, Frank Alms, Vic.i'( lioiee liook of American Songs chisels.
from president, Arthur Moe. Secretary is nd Music which was highly ap- Helped From Outside
predated. Indications are that I hey were
aided from the outside. The
,.k for the state at large. They! |. |». sshie, traveling agent for
tlieni in our midst, all business for
in
Worcester, son of Mr. and dncrv of the twine factory dr
'f ,^0 0, I nife will be "The Fair-
1
..»»u.v» 1, u,.
taniily. ting up a modern barn for Charles apital of ill make Escaped Men
I- red Seeling and wife were tak- Kordlndm across the river. (Ijs 0'airinounl its terminal point, with James Gleason, while, aged 28,
much desired to go to tie when they are rented, the renter
sacrement with a faithful heart. A unique feature of the Grand
md then entered into heaven's Forks building is the provision
weel rest." The floral tributesji:iad« for railroad me.ii. The city
v-e:e many and beautiful. Many of j-, headquarters for many railroad
uir people attended the service,| mployees, and i^ -ction in the ad
£nd followed their old friend to ciitional building ree ntly conslr
,1!ie grave at Riverside. The de-|.vcled exclusively |,o their comfort
I arted leaves besides her husband nd accommodation. The rail
die daughter, Miss Evelyn Sk-tj- road men have their own reading
jhnd to mour her loss. jiooni, parlors a.id study rooms,
Her faithful brothers, Ju'is.lver and here they are free to come
nd John Skjonby, with the mem- fin! spend whatever time they
ters of their families ministered
1o their afflicted sister, until the
nd, "Aunt Helen," kind, gener-
•us to all, has gone home. Sweet find there at the end of their long
peace, the peace of God that pass-l *un.
lb all human understanding.
»allbearers were John Olson, jElQHT PRISONERS ESCAPE
leorge Hollands, Anton Knudson, FROM STATE PENITENTIARY
A'iliam Rubenstahl, Eddie Ruben- Eight prisoners escaped from
ah I and John skjonsby j,,. state penitentiary about 11
and A large number of our citizens o'clock Saturday morning, July
s. attended the State hair at Fargo 22nd and up to late hour tonight
II the week, and speak most liigii- ha,j |uen recaptured,
ol the courteous Irealcnient ol Saturday was clean-up day at
iie management and also that ol p|.json and the east guard had
jSecretary J. P. Hardy ol the largo
hospital in France i^'eoph. took ovythe .nil. properly ,e wall 'wl.icl is
loimt K.iuilv Mill and Fl. vato-
'»xPe,'t lMiild..r hav-jfi 'u railroads, th-y. (like the dark skin, black 'hair, Weight 150
m'M(
county. aul could see the great ad- jn.ight.
for medical treatment lasl.j Hon. Borgen C. llalluin and wifevintages in having their lermin-| yy,- jj Xeavels, white, jr», light
^eek. I* lef.cher, Oklahoma, are visit- cle\alor located in tairuiount, })pown hair, 172 pounds, liive
Mrs. o. 1-. auisley and ~"n jIlfr r«datives and friends here. is lie territory and has railroad feel, eleven inches
l"ft on 1-riday tor their home al 'rtiev are two of the honest, nolde. 1'.icilities, inf?, while. 42, gary hair
Y. M. C. A
Sevcal of til
lie state have
S
L. .Jerna lei- will have Ihe 1 no pounds. liv
,'i'hey were the founders of Kinan-'»barge of the'mill, and with hi- inches.
uel Norweigan l.'nited Lutheran experience, the company may be, Adolf Tornheru-. wthte, 28,
church and did much to build up assured that the Hour of the' reckled face, light luiir, I(i8. live
this part of Richland county. Fairinount Mill and Klevalor Co. feel six inches
,, Mr. Hallum was a niember of our yill soon have a reputation llini Andrew Schmidt,
IN NORTH DAKOTA
Ian
V.
hey are annum III- nio,l h-dpr-il'
nstilutions for ihe voting mi.I old
nan. Fverv town' sUci,
dace and several (owns are a ili
ipating I he organi/iil ion^f iheni.
vlimd is one of lln- I lo
tart the movement. M.-.-i iims '.
UlVe been ll.-ld Me |iy |||(. jieo
nin-• 11i men of 111,.j|y and from
ill reports, arrangements will be
mole for org'anizalion soon pro.
iding sal isfacrory suj^orl can be
organization has built up a large
nemhership and ilm young men
.!•' given whole-onii" place to
pend Iheir -pare lime. 'The
ff 'fynasium and swimming pool al-'
^lract the attention ol most of ihel DEMOCRATS ORGANIZE
E boys. When a slated member-! 1'he members of ihe Den
|ffi thip fee is paid the men and hoys alic l^e.ntral Commilte and lie lo_
ihave full use of Ihe.- any time cal candidates met in the Court
Hjlhey have occasion to want to use'llous Wednesday aflernoon a:i• I
Jj.lhem. Ihes", however, are only organized he elecfeing Tln-o.
ft a small part of this instilution. link. Chairman: Ad Weimar,
jj There are reading rooms for the Secretary Geo. Heeder, Treasur
younger men and boys. In the. Win. Schutt, Member of Slate
j| boy's room there are books and Central Committee from the 37t.li
lp magazines that are (if special in-' district and Hen Schneller from
111 Iciest to them, and in the Men's Jie 12th District.
Number 22
dease. The rooms are popular
villi the railrod boys, who appro
bate the comforts which thev
MM
.n jMidrawn from the wall to
ua
,.,i ||l( |tjl». hathi.ng. The
ruai tls
vi
(|, |l(,
1 ni
Co." the bath room, three from the
biavr hoy and will. boiler room and one who was
M'uty ph« havms »il.
„urlh and south
ru lM
,| i,rok( thru lli'ero
a
TAKEN OVER :weakest, sped, in wall had bce.ii
There is no more Fairmo.in! ""'J
j(J ,f crowhears and
noi
H"'
anery ol the twine factory drown
ed the noise of the prisoners
no sl 0
fi,„ ii-is,
'i ol the men escaped Ironi
sweeping the side walk. The es-
pounds, is five feel inches in
feel and seven
irowii hair, I 5(1, tii\
and one-half inches,
Orasgc Itudolph,
irown hair. I 'i.'t, liv
Mack McGcc. ne
live feel eight.
Alley I'yles, ncg
feel, nine.
I-
ie eompany.
:er towns of.a»d
C. A's. and
while. 2S
fee I eleven
lio I ee| ||.
while, 27,
feel seven.
M-o. 20, I 48.
150. liive
King escaped June i»111 and was
relumed from
'Aberdeen last week, lie was aided
Jmm lllis
,':ml
W!,s li ,k, u,h
a,lln
^Msoii was M'lil up from
aulo. Gleason was
Mohall and has pri.-oii records in
Sing Sing and oilier penlenlaries.
Former Policeman
.V-nvcl's, tht' brains of today's
jail delivery formerly was a polic
nan at Iteach. I.aler In* was hired
S's a guard al the pentilentiary,
,"!1
disHiarg.-d for being loo
Wl,h
1
|h,
ecured from the business men of, linn* later he was arrest
jM. .j|v or rohlony Irriplil rars ami
The V. M. C. A. at Grind forks'
11
'""f?
Bas recenllv completed a large ad Pen*
dition to their old building, in »--i«h'o|,\cers ,n auto.no
vliich many new rooms arelocal- and twf. on horseback are
•!. After working hours in this scouring the country tonigl
*i 1 for a number of yeas, the
I irl ,l
us—
ng hlodhounds fo track the fugi
ives. Schmidt ami 'Thoi-nberg
-re• captured shortly after lion
Apple creek, a few miles east
of Ihe penitentiary.
