Tron County ''Register
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY. '
ubscriptiok: , .
One Year, li.so. Si Mon(h, I0.75.
' ' KATES Of ADVERTISING
Furnished on Application. Special In
dueements to Borne Patrons.
Addreg Register, Ironton, Mo.
- Grand Avenue Bank
' ' 0F ST. LOUIS, MO. , '.
0 Capital and Surplus, $150,000.00
COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OiR
. DEPOSITS
March 4, 1908 .... . " . . . . -
1907 - . - - - - ' . ' - , . .
1908 - - - , -' . ...
,' . ,- 1909 r - '- .. . '
. 1910 .
1911 - .....
' 1912- '- -
: 1913 :.'. .... .
1914 - .
' ' '1915 - . - - . . . . .
May 1, 1916 ''. - . - . , . .
The usual Interest Paid on
GEORGE W. CLARKSON, Pkksidekt.
iTHE ARGADIAGOLLEGE
t
. -
Ursuline Academy for Young Ladies
Delightfully Situated Buildings Spacious and Commodious
0
ARCADIA COLLEGE, ARCABiA, MO.
MBaD BBQ BBtB84lloBBvlI
WE OWN AND OFFER
Crittenden County, ; Arkansas
Drainige District No. 7 '
1
Per Cent, Bonds
c ' No Option. ,"' , "
tj? Dated January 10, 1916
ft? Total issue, $200,000. Denomination, 6500. Principal and semi
(a annual intereHt, February 1st and August 1st, payable at the Mississippi
"Jg. Valley Trust Co., St. Louis. Bonds and coupons may be collected
W free of charge through our office. i
tj? DRAINAGE DISTRICT No. 7 is located in Northwestern Arkansas,
about eight miles north of Memphis, Tenn. - There are 37,000 acres in
;i; the District, about 40 per cent of which is in cultivation. The average
j? Value of the land is abont $40.00 per acre, making a total estimated
iji value of $1,400,000. Population of District, about 2500.
& Price to net 5.25 per ct,
I G. H WALKER '& GO.
$ 307 North Fourth Street ST. LOUIS
w
Job-Printing, all kinds, at this Office
" More Misrspresentation.
v (IfaroiJngion Times.) .
That some of the St. ; Louis papers
have a yellow streak down their spin
si columns, especially in regard to
(matters of a political nature, evidence
is constantly multiplying. The latest
Indication of such , "yellowness" that
has come to the attention of The
Times, to (he rot and buncombe that
has recently been banded out by
some of them in regard to Bon. Cor
jMilus Roach expecting to withdraw
(his nsme as- a gubernatorial candl-
data, '
Such a suggestion, on its face, ap
pears as an absolute falsehood, with-
. oal the least appearance of rhyme or
reason. Why should Mr. Roach have
even the remotest idea of such action,
when it is admitted and conceded that
he is one of the strongest men in the
race for the Democratic nomination?
jp.ven those who do not intend trrvote
(of hjm are free to admit that be will
foe at latBt secondiu the raoe after the
- vote Br counted. Would that St,
Louis had one Dflmocratid paper that
could be depended upon in regard to
Democratic Information.
To the Public.
1 now have ft, n.7 employ Ed. Reed
the wagon-maker, who was with Gay &
Schwab, at Ironton, for dsn years. I hnd
him to be a first-class workman and will
0o your work at the following prcs;
' lire:l work, second growth spokes, iso
each; A extra select spokes, 13c, XXX
extra select, 10c; XXX select, oc; felloe,
15c; Star Krde front axle, $2; hind nxle,
$1.75. Will (jive you from 30 days' to
six monthw' time to pay for work, , Six
to twelve months' time to pay on new
Wagons. Will take in exchana Prp
iwi, Ties, Lumber, Live Stock mid
f -og Jf anlinjr.' fay 'ems rom J,-S t0
( $4 per dy, Horse Shoeing, $t, 1 want
a good, fast horse-shmtf.
R. E, Johnston.
' Bcllevfew, Mo. May i.
F. P. AKG, Publisher.
Society..
VOLUME LT
t 117,738.00
. 135,848.71
142,413.20
653,345.20
607,390.23
785,133.57
1,008,666.37
1,187,604.25
. 1,287,124.62
1,319,455.66
1,418,973.17
Time Deposits and Savings Accounts
rlt
a?
Due Serially, August 1.
' (Continued from eighth page.) (Continued from eighth page.) (Continued from eighth page.) (Continued from eighth page.) (Continued from eighth page.) (Continued from eighth page.)
For Judge, County Court . For Judge, County Court, For Judge, County Court ' For Ju,1ee, County Court iFor Judge, County Court For Judge, County Court
Southern District, . Southern District, Southern District, ; Southern District, , Southern District, Southern District,
J. A. RUBLE, H. W. BRINGHAM, ' -v
Vulcan, Mo. Pilot Knob," Mq. ' """ .
, : ADD REESE, , .....................
Annapolis, Mo. - " '....,... , , (
' ' ;
;PWmTraEDGABttftey''i Fo 'touting kitomey, For Prosecuting Attorney, For Prosecuting Attorney, For Prosecuting Attorney,
Ironton, Mo. ' '. , ,
. Kijr, ; '"'"V'"'"''' '''''"f1 ' ForSheriff, For'sheriff, ""' "For' Shcri"
Ironton, Mo. . , ANTONY ALLGIER, J
THOS. D. JONES, -V "' Arca(51(i Mo -. '
Ironton, Mo. - . 1 D. A. WORLEY, "
Annapolis, Mo. . . - -
For Assessor i ,
JOHN I. MARSHALL, - . For Asse's'sor, FoV Asse's'so'r, '" ' " ' For Assessor, For Assessor, For Assessor,
Ironton, Mo. , ... .... "" ' ' '
. ., , J.W.REED, . ' ; ' ' '
Ironton, Mo. ' J' "' (
.', , -
For County Treasurer, , "
. , ' 'JOHN S. CONWAY, For County Treasurer, "' " ForCounty Treasurer"'"' ,.For County Treasurer, For County Treasurer, . For County Treasurer,
Ironton, Mo. C. D. ALEXANDER, ' J ..i.. . . ' " , 'r
, JAMES ARTHUR FRANCIS,' 'ironton, Mo. - '' ' .",''." " ' ' '" " .. y
Edgehill, Mo. - v ....T.,.. ............................. ..... "", ' '" ' "-L."",
f r, ... I ,( , ' "--,.'. '' ' ' , ' ,
for, County Surveyor, . . ( .
, : W..'l;- KJ5NPALL, ' For County Surveyor, , "' "f'0'r' County Surveyor,"""" For County Surveyor, . For County Surveyor, For County Surveyor,
Ironton, Mo. ' ' ' '
, - t -
.............. ...... .... ,.,,,,,,,,,,,
'.For Public Administrator, .. , For Public Administrator, .; For Public Administrator, For Public Atfministratflr, For Public Administrator, For Public Administrator,
I I ) I t I tv .... . . ..... . . . . , ,,,,,, , , . , ,,,,,, ' I .1 t v , . ,
' ' For Coroner, ' For Coroner, For Coroner, ""' ":' For Coroner, ' For Coroner, '.For Coroner,
COUNTY OF IRON. j correct list, containing the name and post office address of each person who is entitled to be vqted for at the primary election to be held at the regular
polling place, in each precinct of Iron county, between the hours of six o'clock in the morning and seven o'clock in the evening ou the first Tuesday, in August, 1916, together with the
designifioa of the pflice for which he is a candidate, and the party or principle he represents, ,' '
' ,'In testimony whereof I hereunto sctmy hand
SEAL. ."
IRONTON. MO., THURSDAY, JULY 27, 1916.
Kill the Heuian Fly and Grow more
Wheat too.
It Is not necessary to" quit growing
wheat. . The Hessian fly may be kill
ed, starved, and prevented by prac
ticing the beet farming methods to
secure an Increased yield of wheat.
July or v.ery early-August plowing
buries the Hessian fly and makes
from 5 to 15 more bushels more wheat
per acre than September plowing. It
is often advisable to disk the wheat
stubble ground and then plow three
or four weeks later. The disking will
mash, destroy, and expose many of
the flies in the flaxseed stage. It will
also conserve moisture and make
plowing much easier. ,
Cultivating the plowed . ground
throught the summer, especially after
rains, keeps down volunteer wheat
and kills and starves the fly. It also
conserves moisture and makes a
better seed bea for wheat. The fly
feeds almost entirely upon wheat but
it may be found upon rye and barley."
Wheat sown on or soon after the
fly-free date is practically free from
Hessian fly injury during the fall and
winter. Careful observations and
experiments have shown that the fly
free dates are generally as early as the
wheat should be sown to secure a maxi
mum yield regardless of the fly. For
the northern third of Missouri the saf e
sowing date is about October 1, cen
tral third October 8,and southern third
October 10. The College of Agricul
ture will on request furnish informa
tion on the fly-free date for each
county of the state.
Every wheat grower should try to
put into practice the above measures.
A united fight against the fly cannot
be emphasized too strongly, because
one farmer that fails to destroy vol
unteer wheat or that sows his wheat
too early may breed enough flies to
damage his neighbors' wheat crops
badly the following spring.
Many of the best and most success
ful wheat growers of the state have
found these measures practical and
effective in the control of the fly and
they have als6 greatly increased their
yields at the same time. .
T. J. Talbebt, Missouri College of
Agriculture.. .
V v Williams a Winner.
. -
(Prom Democrat-Tribune.)
Judge Fred L. Williams is making a
splendid showing in his race for the
Democratic nomination for Judge of
Division No. 2 of the Supreme Court
(unexpired term.) This is not sur
prising to his many friends who have
known him and kept in touch with
his career. From a farmer boy, in
early life, without financial backing,
he worked bis way through college
and law school, coming out the honor
man of his class. Upon finishing law
School he located at Joplin, where
by his own efforts he arose to the top
of the ' Jasper county bar. Three
years and a half ago, when the Su
preme Court was looking over the
State for a man to appoint upon the
Supeine Court Commission to aid the
court in writing opinions and relieve
the overcrowed condition of the Su
preme Court docket, Judge Williams
was selected by the court from a list
of more than thir applicants. So
satisfactorily did he perform his work
that he was again elected by the
unanimous vote of the seven judges
for another term as a commissioner.
He is forty years of age, stands. six
OUR OOD, OUR COUNTRY AND TRUTH.
feet three and is as large mentally as
he is physically. He is energetic and
bins written his full share of opinions
since he has been sitting with the
Supreme Court. He possesses a rare
judicial temperament and a great ca
reer is predicted for him on the
bench.
His only opponent is from the city
of St. Louis. That city already has
two out of the reven Supreme Judges,
while Judge Williams' section has
none. Williams is not running against
any of the present members of the
supreme uourt.
We are of the opinion that the
Democratic voters of the State will
encounter little difficulty in arriving
at a choice in the race.
Dry Weather Cultivation.
Columbia, Mo. Samuel M. Jordan
of the State Board of Agriculture says
that the two Important things In dry
weather cultivation of corn are to
prevent evaporation of the water in
the soil and to retain what may fall as
rain.
To leave a slightly corrugated sur
face is best, since a flat surface of dust
will get hotter than one with slight
corrugations similar to the Burface as
it is left following a corrugated
roller. Since on the flat surface the
sunjs rays strike more nearly perpen
dicular to the surface, hence evapora
tion by the wind and beat will be fess
than on a flat surface.
Again, if the surface of dust is left
flat and a heavy rain should fall, this
flat surface will "puddle" more quick
ly than the corrugated surface, hence
the water will begin to run more
quickly from the fiat surface, while
on the corrugated surface more rain
gets into the soil, which is very de
sirable in a dry time.
"Again, after the rain' has ceased
the flat surface will dry more rapidly,
and crack open worse than the cor
rugated surface.
In view of these facts, any tool such
as a drag, mower, or corn planter
wheel, should - have some harrow
teeth so placed as that they will leave
the surface slightly rough. Where
shovel tools are used, the plowing
should not be deep nor very close
to the corn rootB, especially toward
time for "laying by,"
It would appear that corn roots
finish their growth early, and do not
grow much after the corn is large as
can be plowed with a two-horse culti
vator. Cutting of the roots when
they have made their full growth
does a damage that cannot be repair
ed. Cultivation Bhould be frequent
enough to keep down weeds and to
prevent the crusting and crackiug of
the surface.
J. E. Wessmayes, Secretary.
37 Barrels of Booze.
(The Lead Belt News.)
The flowing bowl was not so much
In evidence inElvins this week but no
credit is due the bootleggers on that
account. Their plans went astay and
as a result their pay-day which con
sisted of 37 barrels of beer and whis
key is now stored in Squire R. G.
Ramsey's office in Flat River. It is
rather a forlorn looking bunch of
booze and there are none so poor as
to do it reverence.' No one appears
anxious to claim ownership. It had
been shipped to Joe . Frizzell. His
name appears on the heads of the
and affix my official seal. Done
' '
barrels. The expose came about as
follows:
"Bud" Cundiff, formerly of Doe
Run, had been visiting the Downs
"joint" quite frequently. On Thurs
day he took on a few more than he
could comfortably carry and while
in thin condition he alleges he wag
"rolled" of a sum of money amount
ing to $39. He accused the proprietors
of taking his money but was unable
to get it back. He then swore to an af
fidavit charging Montgomery and Friz
zel with selling beer. He said he had not
only bought beer on the day he made
the affidavit but had done so on differ
ent occasions. It was through his tip
that the officers located the 37 barrels.
He told the officers that they might
not find much booze at the joint but
that if they would visit the old beer
depot near the Illinois So'uthern
depot at Elvins they would find lots
of it.
Armed with the necessary papers
and the regulation equipment of artil
lery Constable Schacfer, Jas. Riche
son, "Jargo" Bolin and "Jargo"
Lewis visited the beer house. They
found beer to the right of them, beer
to the left of them and whiskey in
front of them, gurgling and sparkling.
They secured a truck from Flat River
and had it hauled to Squire Ramsey's
office. It surely must have been only
of a conversational brand because
Jas. Richeson and "Jargo" Bolin after
sleeping with it Wednesday night
were none the worse for their experi
ence when day dawned Thursday,
The "booze" will be held as
corroborative evidence in the several
cases pending against Frizzel and
Montgomery.
Help the Kidneys.
Ironton Readers are Learning the Way.
It's the little kidney ills
The lame, weak or aching back
The unnoticed urinary disorders
That may lead to dropsy and
Bright's disease.
When the kidney's are weak.
Help them" with Doan's Kidney
Pills,
A remedy especially for weak kid
neys. Doan's have been used in kidney
troubles for 50 years.
Endorsed by 40,000 people endors
ed by citizens of this locality.
John E. Hough, painter & decora
tor, Jefferson St., Farmiogton, Mo.;
says: "I strained my back and my
kidneys were effected. I suffered
from a lame and weak back and
could hardly straighten after stoop
ing. The kidney secretions were un
natural and pained in passage. I used
Doan's Kidney Pills and they relieved
me."
Price 50c, at all dealers. Don't
simply ask for a kidney remedy get
Doan's Kidney Pills the same that
Mr. Houeh had. Foster-Milburn Co.,
Props., Buffalo, N. Y. Adv.
Weather Report.
Meteorological Report of Coopera
tive Observer at Ironton,Iron County,
Mo., for the week ending Tuesday,
July 18,1916:
. O Temp'ture S
g
Days of Week. K "2.
se P
m C
" I S- 2
Wednesday 12 92 72 .16
Thursday Ill 96 66
Friday 14 97 67
Saturday 15 98 64
Sunday 16 98 66
Monday 17 96 67 .03
Tuesday 18 93 67 .75
at office in Ironton, Mo., this
, "' -
TERMS $1.50 a-Year In Advance.
NUMBER 8.
The Regi3ser Office for job-work
Notice.
SEALED PROPOSALS will be re
ceived at the office of the County
Clerk of Iron-County until 12 o'clock,
noou, on August 7, 1916, and then
publicly opened and . read by the
County Court, for i furnishing forty
(40) cords of Black Oak billet wood
for use at the Court House and Jail.
The Court reserves the right to re
ject or accept any or all bids.
Proposals should be plainly marked
"Proposal for furnishing wood" and
addressed to the undersigned.
By order of the County Court.
ARTHUR HUFF. County Clerk.
Ironton, Mo., July 3, 1916.
Order of Publication.
Edith Westerm an, Plaintiff,
against
Effie Moser, Nettie Peaslee and My
ron E. Rencehausen. defendants.
The State of Missouri, to the above
uameu Defendants Oreeting:
You are hereby notified that an
action has been commenced against
you in the Circuit Court of the County
of Iron, in the State of Missouri, for
the purpose of securing a decree of
partition and order of sale of the
following described lands, to-wit:
Lots three (3,) four (4,) five (5,) six
(6,) twelve (12,) thirteen (13,) four
teen (14,) fifteen (15,) and sixteen
(16,) in block sixteen (16,) and lot six
(6) and seven (7) in block fourteen
(14;) all in the town of Pilot Knob,
Mo., as tha same appear ou the plat
of said town of Pilot Knob, Mo., on
file in the office of the Recorder of
Deeds for Iron County, Missouri,which
said action is returnable on the first
day of the next term of said Court, to
be held at the Court House in the City
of Ironton, in the County of Iron and
State of Missouri, when and where
you may appear and defend such ac
tion; otherwise, plaintiff's petition
will be taken as confessed, and judg
ment rendered accordingly.
It is ordered that a copy hereof be
duly published at ieast once a week
for 4 consecutive weeks irr the Iron
County Register, a weekly news
paper duly printed, published and
circulated in said Iron County, and
duly designated by plaintiff's attor
ney, and duly approved by Baid Clerk
as most likely to give notice to de
fendant, the last insertion to be at
least fifteen days before said next
term of said Court.
STATE OF MISSOURI, 1
COUNTY OF IRON. )
I, J. M. Hawkins, Clerk of the Cir
cuit, Court of Iron County, Missouri,
hereby certify that the foregoing writ
ing if a full, (me and complete copy of
notice of suit and the original Order of
PuWcfction in sail cause, as fully as
V'f.. .;'. fnrtHi4 and appears of rec
ord in my office.
In Witness Whereof. I hereto sub
scribe my name and official signature
and hereto affix the seal of said Court
at my office in the City of Ironton,
Iron County, Missouri, this 20th dav
SEAL of July, 1916.
J. M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
NOTICE OF TRUSTEE'S SALE.
Whereas, Frank Sklefonr anil Victoria
Sklebar, his wife, by their certain deed oi
trust, dHled the 17th day of September 1913,
and recorded in book G2, at page 117, of Iron
County Land Records, conveyed to )he un
dersigned Trustee, the following described
real estate, situate, lyin and being iu the
County of Iron, and State of Missouri, to
wit:
The north part of the southeast quarter of
the southeast quarter, and the northeast
part of the southwest quarter of the south
east quarter, all in section 112, township 31,
rar.KC 4 east, described as follows: Beeiti-
ninKat the northeast corner of a tract of
land deed, d by"T, P. by Oil eg" Russell, a
distance oi about 51 rods north of the south
east corner ol said section, township aud
ranue, and running north to within 17 teet of
the line dividing the southeast quarter of
said section into quarters, about 2S rods,
thence running west parallel with the said
line about 112 rods, where it cuts the creek
known as Haydeu's Branch, thence down
said creek to its junction with the north
branch of Stout's Greek, thence ilown Stout's
Creek to a forked sycamore tree, staiidinu in
the dlvide of creek, thence running in the di
rection as shown on a plat attached to a deed
from James A. Hughes aud wife to Eliza Sim
mernian for said property; thence nearly
east to theplaceof beginning.coinaining W.;ili
acres, more or less, and beinw a part of the
same land convoyed by D.F. Martin to Rrant
or by deed, dated May 2sth, lssl, and record
3d day of July, 1916,
, . '
JOB-WORK
Best equipped Job Print
ing establishment in this
section of the State, We
insure satisfaction; prices
reasonable.
TRY US.
ed in book T, paxe ssi. Iron rountv. Missouri,
morrts. The description in said deed is
hereby referred to and made part hei-e-,f an
fully as if the same was copied herein si far
as the same relates tg the ground above de
scribed. Also two and Itftv-hundredths
(2 5o acres, lyirin in the nortbwest corner of
of the southwest quarter of the southwest
quarter of section it, township S4, north,
range I east, being all that part of said
southwest quarter of southwest quarter of
section :a, township 34. north, range least,
which lies north aud west of stout's Creek:
coDtaining, in the aggregate, 2ti.sij acres,
more or less: a plat of said land is recorded
in book 27, on page ll'j. Iron County K.-cords,
which is also referred to for the purpose of
determining the correct boundaries of the
lantl hereby conveyed ;
Which conveyance was made to the un
dersigned trustee, in trust, to secure thertv
ment of the certain promissory note, vli'h
interest thereon, iu said deed of trust de
scribed: And, whereas, default has been made in
the payment of the Interest due ou said
promissory note, aud the same remains past
due and unpaid;
Now, therefore, at the request of the legal
holder of the said note, I, the undersigned,
Wm. R. Edgar, Junior, trustee in said deed
of trust, will, ou
Monday, August 3at, Ifi6 '
at the courthouse door in the City of Iron
ton, Iron County. Missouri, between the
hours of nine o'clock in the forenoon and
five o'clock in the afternoon of said day,
proceed to sell the property hereinbefore de
scribed, at public vendue, to the highest
bidder, for cash, for the pupose of satisfy
ing said indebtedness and the the costs of
executing this trust.
WM. R, EDGAR, Junior, Trustee.
Ironton, Mo., July 14, lUlti.
Sheriffs Sale Under De"ed
of Trust.
Whereas, Ed Sutton, a single man,
by his certain deed of trust, dated the
5th day of January, nineteen hundred and
sixteen, and duly recorded in the office of
the Recorder of Deeds for the County of Iron ,
and State of Missouri, in Hook 69, at page
18, did convey to Chas. E. Bolch, trus
tee, the following described real estate,
situate, lying and being in the County of
Iron and State of Missouri, to wit:
All of the northeast quarter of section
twenty-three, (23), townshfp thirty-one,
(31), range three (3) east, except one and
one- half acres now owned by William
Jones, fifteen and one-half acres now owned
by Chas. E. Bolch, ten acres now owned by
John Jackson, and Sve acres now owned by
F. C. Warncke this five-acre-tract being
known as the Benson land; also that tract
or parcel of land described as follows:
Commencing at the southwest corner of the
southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
section fourteen (14), township thirty-one,
(31), north, range three (3) east, running
thence north ten hundred and fifty-five feet,
thence east twelve hundred feet, more or
less, to Kinney's Branch, thence south
along said Branch ten hundred und fifty
five feet, thence west to point of beginning.
This parcel of land is supposed to contain
thirty (30) acres, making a total of one
hundred and lilty-eight (158) acres, more
or less. (This deed of trust given subject
to one. dated February 23d, 1915);
Which conveyance was made in trust to
the said Chas. E. Bolch to secure the pay-"
ment o! on? cettltin promissory note ' de
scribed trerein; '
A"d,i.hf cess, cjefanlt-t is been anile in
the payment of said note and interest, now
past duejtnd unpaid;
And, whereas, it is provided in said deed
of trust, that in case of death, removal from
the state or refusal to act, of said Chas. E.
Bolch, as trustee, the then acting Sheriff of
Iron County, Missouri, shall act in his
stead, and sell the foregoing property in
case of default;
And, whereas, Chas. E. Bolch, trustee in
said deed of trust, has refused to act as such
trustee and foreclose the property conveyed
by said deed of trust;
And, whereas the undersigned Sheriff of
Iron County, Missouri, has been requested
by the legal owner and holder of said note
to exercise the power of sale in him vested
by said deed of trust;
Now, therefore, at the request of the legal
owner and holder of said note, and in
pursuance of the conditions in said deed of
trust contained, I, the undersigned, the du
ly elected, qualified and acting Sheriff of
Iron County, Missouri, will sell the real es
tate above described, at public vendue, to
the highest bidder for cash, at the east
door of the Court Housein the City of Iron
ton, in the County of Iron, and State of
Missouri, on
Monday, the 55 iA;y of July, 1916,
between the hours of nine o'clock in the
forenoon and five o'clock in the afternoon,
for the purpose of satisfying said indebt
edness and the cost of executing this trust.
WM. BLUE, Sheriff and Trustee.
Ironton, Mo., June 26, 1916.
ARTHUR HUFF, County Clerk.
