IXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXIII.
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY. JULY 27, 1916.
NUMBER 4.
ERES SECURELY
RITISH HANDS
m m m A. mm I me B M
A LL m UA L
HUUL IN Un 1 1 LL
of the Sommc French
TT 1
mi! ruiLiiiL'ii iiuiim: iuu
oners L,mie v ltrnunir
where in France.
MS ARE STILL ACTIVE
iipit wiin hp vv t
ies in the bonevka JJis-
-Berlin Claims to Have
etrated Russians' Atlvanc-
usiiiuua in iviuil ivcttiuu.
WARSHIPS GUARD
U. S. NEUTRALITY
The North Carolina and Two
Destroyers Loafing near
the Strange British
Cruiser.
Nnrfnllt, Vn July 27. Almost simul
taneously with the clearance of the
Deutschland at Baltimore to-day, the
armored cruiser North Carolina and
two torpedo boat destroyers, under
orders from Washington to "enforce
neutrality," steamed out beyond Cape
Henry to-night and took up positions
near the British cruisers, one of which
puld an unannounced visit to lower
Chesapeake bay Tuesday morning, To
night the American warships were
keeping near the foreign craft appar
ently about 15 miles from shore.
3EUTSCHLAND NOT
TO SAIL FOR WEEK
IS LATEST REPORT
DAY'S DEATHS 85
NEW CASES 162
Information Is Furnished by
German Consul at Baltimore
Who Will Give No Further In
formation or Explanation.
CASEMENT'S EXECUTION
SET FOR AUGUST 3
n, July rn w itli the village or
i completely and apparently Fe
in their hands, and having
lenod their position here by the
of two stroni; trenches west of
ce. in ruts i tiiiitns sppm np v
ting befoio attempting to again
their frr es nqli.st tlie Germans
i blocking their advance toward
e. Wednesday saw only Isolated
duels and here and there sharp
ifnntrj atta' lis along the entire
fiont In France, where for sov
'eks. sanguinary encounters had
igaged in almost continuously.
e south of the Pnmnir the French
een en ibied to lecord another
for their arms In the takng of
fled ho ise. together with some
s, so itheast of the village of
Kvcpt In the Champagne, whero
lllerv of both rides were engager!
k place on the remainder of the
front
Volhynla sei 'or the Russians are
up energetically their press
the Teutonic allies in the Slonevka
egion ond also are attacking tho
In north Gallcla, near Brody. In
uisLwi i j I'll iibi ,wi rt'i n him
s are meeting with heavy cnsual
,1 flint mnpp thnn 4 (Wl mpri .md llvo
in . initi nil m trim mid I uiiii Lilian
iiioris nvi uppn c:i mui en nv inn
c;ii ,'fi mi iiini xii.'iiin uiiiiiiiiiiiiiL li
re nt variance cnncornlnp- thn i n-
.f flrVttn- tliot l,ti-i tl.-nn ,-lnn
Iga and In the vicinity of Barano
I'etrograd claims the repulse of
lic.iv r 1,-iu .i,ii?iiu will ITIII-
o i,-, rt1. T?lrn 1,l.Mn HarllH
that the Geimans penetrated Rus-
them. Likewise Petrograd claims
t train for the Russians near Rnr.
Russian attacks in this vicinity
1 ur ea nnVR m'.ipnntprt Er? iipnn. n
h Arirf,il nrt.l l,n T? , o , a o 1
Tlie reports of the vacuation have
. i . tin ji-v ,ni;iiit:i uic iuin
r retmnt Vxi- nhlo tn tnlrA n-.i'nv
face of the rapid Russian advance
ns and stores in Erzlngan.
NntlnnnllstN In House of Commons.
Petition for Reprieve
London, July 2H. A deputation of na
tionalist members of House of Commons
havo presented a petition, signed by .10
of their colleagues, asking for a reprieve
for Sir Roger Casement, whose execution
is set for August 3. Premier Asqulth
promised to give careful consideration to
tho petition.
Dublin, July 2. William Butler Yeats,
the poet, has sent a letter to Premier As
quith appealing for clemency for Sir Roger
Casement. Mr. Yeats says American
friends have informed him that the execu
tions in Ireland shocked American public
opinion.
TO NOTIFY WILSON
26TH OF AUGUST
CLEARANCE PAPERS SECURED
United States Takes Notice of
British Cruiser's Dash into
Chesapeake and Orders War
ships to Neutrality Duty Off
Cape Henry.
Despite Paralysis Record New
York's Juvenile Death Rate
Is Lower Than Last
Year.
New York, July 20. Despite tho in
creasing number of deaths and now
cases of Infantile paralysis In N'ew
York city, Hcnlth Commissioner Haven
Emerson declared to-night that the
death rate of children Is lower than It
was last year, tic stated the records
of his deportment showed that G59
less Infants have died so far this year
In the city than In the corresponding'
period of lMfi.
"This means wo have saved more
bnbles than have been lost in tho opl
demlc to date," the commissioner ex
plained.
Health Inspectors to-morrow will
visit all hospitals where Infantile par
alysls Is being treated to see that the
quarantine provisions are being ob
served. The number of deaths for the
24 hours ending at 10:00 a. m. to-day
was 3." and the number of new cases
1C2.
SEEK RECRUITS.
WashlnRton, July 2G. Enthusiastic
in the belief that the progressives are
turning to President Wilson rather
than Mr. Hughes, Vance McCormlck.
chairman of tho democratic national
committee, conferred with the Presi
dent to-day and announced thnt the
democratic notification ceremonies
would he held just as soon ns prac
ticable after tho adjournment of Congress,
Mr. McCormlck commented upon the
action of the progressives at Syracuse
ns being Indicative of the trend toward
the President. Tho great body of Bull
Moosers, he asserted, would not fol-
ow Colonel Roosevelt and Oeorgn W.
'crklns into the Republican party.
It is believed that the notification
ceremonies will bo held at the Presi
dent's new slimmer home at Shadow
awn, Long Branch, N. J on Satur
day, August 2C, assuming that Congress
has adjourned before that date.
HODIST BISHOP
IS ELECTROCUTED
rivclnml Dint ThriitiKh Conflict
Rlf Pn Tiilv r. H'llHn
irii -Mount i n iv nrinfT nt nvo.
hroush the contact nf a .stool fish
id which no nnr twirpntvai fpni
fnt .In.mfR llnnrv TYircnn nf
Snn i n ACTA WIHl r hlrfh tAnnlnn
o wiro carrying more than 20,000
n H shnn l-.vnlrinil tvna frtitrwl Vlo
nan incn namy mimed and Frosl
ij iiisuiuifii iiiKii lension jupn wire
op Evelanfl. althotiRh born In
ii 4 iii mini fit nt wiiuj J -vio, nnoii
ry at Dickinson CnltotrA. hnln
iter! four years later with valcdln-
nn m Hdttn Konna Mnnnva XI
flirn nnrl wnn ncelfnnrl ontHViAcn
with hcaflnnarters at Manila,
tA Iflhnr VfTA In TnHln tVio Clinlte
ments, Sinsaporo and tho rhillp-
i A I n r i ti i rv a i h: i
AS G. 0. P. SENATOR
.Maine I'rlnuiry.
tluu, wtinv, uittfi .11. i un IliMIl
uuiiiii nil iiiiii a its iiji I mii'ii
senator ns yesterday's special
pv wnn i nr i'ili fill 1 11-11 1 irii I. nv rn
from all except lit! small towns
erntiiu aim ci'tu iiu uiiKi,t.nniiiu
12. Ouornsey of Dover.
I ui lliu J 'J Liiuiiuua i wn i .un
r. 1'ernald.
Si,
HAMLIN RK.NOMINATKH.
sninirion. .iniv zii. unai jept
Un of Massachusetts, now tho
rnor of tho federal reserve hoard
nominated for another term to
iv ProHiflent Wilson.
ROI-ONOKP FIRING HJiAUI),
idon, July 2H. A report that pro
d HrlnR waa heard coming from tho
of Bothnia Monday was printed In a
holm newspaper to-day. No details
CAUSE OF HOME
RULE NOT INJURED
SAYS STATESMAN
Sir Horace Plunkett Says to As
sociated Press That Really
a Great Blunder Has
Been Avoided.
Baltimore, Juno 2''.. Carl A. I.nedcrltz,
Herman consul here, said to-nlht that
(he merchant submarine Peutschland
would not leave for n week. When asked
why her departure wos further delayed
after clearance, papers had been taken
nut, the consul would vouchsafe no ex
planation. The German submarine liner Dcutsch
Innd to-day was cleared by her com
ninnder, Captain Paul KoenlR, for "Bre
men or nny other port In Germany." Any
hour now the vessel may start down Ches
apeake bay, prepaied to make a dash for
the open sea through the Vlrpinln capes
anil the guards of allied warships off
the three-mile limit.
Frcrecy surrounds the plans of Captain
KocnlK. After securing his clearance pa
pers at the custom house he said, in re
ply to (inestlons aslicd for the benefit of
tlie Marvland Pilots' association, that the
exact time of his departure was Indefinite.
To-night ho had made no arrangements
for a pilot, hut he can secure one almost
Immediately at any time he desires.
After the usunl clearance formali
ties, the commander of the submarine
rcrue"-tcd that his manifest, which he
had filed, he withheld from publication
"for a reasonable time."
Collector nf thf Port Ryan com
municated with the treasury depart
ment nt Washington and then in
formed Captain Koenlfr that his request
would bo granted. Consequently, the
cargo was described officially as belns
composed of general merchandise.
On his way from the building the
little captain tarried long enough to
shako hands with several officials who
wished him a safe voyage.
"We lertalnly are with you," said one
of his well wishers, patting him on
tho shoulder.
Captain Koenlg smiled broadly,
nodded his head, said: "I thank you,"
and then continued on his way to tho
pier.
The tug Thomas F. Tlmmlns which
met the Dcutschland off tho Virginia
capes upon her arrival and which has
been constantly near her ever since
pulled away from tho pier late to-day
and went to a nearby coal pier, whero
she filled her hunkers. Directly after
ward she returned to the Deutsch
land's pier.
All day long there was activity
aboard the Deutschland. Tho engines
were tested again and again, and twice
tho vessel was submerged until her
keel rested on the bottom of her slip.
Office Opened nt Mldillelmry for 1st
Vermont liifnnlrj.
Middlcbury, July 2C. A recruiting
ofTlce for tho First Vermont Infantry
was opened to-day In the Volunteer
Hose company room at 74 Main street
by I.leut. R. C. Knowlton. He was ac
companied by Kergt. W. A. 1'pham
Corp. J. F. I.oughlln and Pvt. J. D.
Barker, all members of the First Ver
mont cavalry, who havo been in camp
at Fort Kthan Allen. This ofllce is
one of three located within the State
by order of the war department to re
crult the First infantry to full war
strength. At present the First Intantry
needs over 1,000 men to bring It up to
the standard set forth by the war do
partment. By this order, the age Urn
Its are IS and 3.1 yenrs. Physical exam
inations will be given nil applicants
and those passing will he properly un
listed and forwarded to the moblllza
tlon camp at Fort Ethan Allen.
At present there are about 300 mem
hers of the First infantry In camp nt
"ort Kthan Allen nnd it is expected
that they will leave shortly for the
border.
London, July 26. Tho breakdown of
tho Irish settlement does not In nny
way Injure the cause of home rule nor
indicate nny change in the attitude, of
the government toward the Irish ques-
tion, Sir Horace Plunkett told tho As
sociated Press to-day. Sir Horace,
who for many years has been occupied
with Irish argicultural and congestion
problems, probably possesses as broad
a knowledge of Irish affairs ns does
any man. Ho has nlways maintained
an nloofness from party politics and
enjoys general popularity In all sec
tions. IIn continued: "Tho govern
ment was anxious to seize the oppor
tunity for .an agreement between Sir
Edward Carson nnd John Redmond tn
put tho home rule act Into Immediate
effect, hut before doing so It folt bound
to ascertain the real sentiment of tho
Irish people which proved more un
friendly toward tho scheme than cither
the government or Its Irish .advisers
had expected.
Tho government was naturally unwill
ing to Impose on tho Irish people n settle
ment unacceptahlo to them nnd It was
found that tho schemo tentatively offered
to tho two Irish leadors would meet with
strong opposition both In England and
Ireland. Hence consldorablo delay took
place but In tho result a great blunder
has ibeen avoided. Oponlon In Ireland Is
obviously relieved by tho withdrawal of
the too hastily constructed scheme.
'Homo rule nt tho end of the war Is pr-
fectly secure nnd tho large measure of
agreement reached between Carson and
iRedmond will doubtless bo utilized to Im
prove the terms of tho ultimate settlement."
our Apprehended In I"nolnirc I'nlls
I'linrKed Kith Intolcnt Ion.
Ennsburg Falls. July 2 6. Deputy
She! iff A. J. Croft was notified Sunday
afternoon that an automohlle party in
an npparent stage of i.'oxlcntlon was
on the streets of the village. They
were arrested on Church street, their
machine being on the sidewalk. Not
one of the party knew where he was.
It Is said, some thinking they were In
.St. Albans nnd others Insisting they
were In Canada. They were taken to
tlmir homes in Sheldon Springs and
held to appear here Monday evening.
11 pleaded guilty to Intoxication.
lohn Swanson, the chauffeur, was
fined $10 and costs of $r,.4.' for operat
ing a car while Intoxicated. G. W.
Botterell, R. E. Bramhall and John
Sllvestro were each fined $5 and costs,
amounting In each case to $11.15,
which they arranged to pay.
Washington, July 2C. Aroused by
nn ofilcial report from the commander
of the battleship Louisiana that a
mysterious ship, purporting to bo a
British cruller, had passed Into tho
mouth of Chesapeake bay early yes
terday morning, the navy department
to-day ordered tho armored cruiser
North Carolina nnd three destroyers
to neutrality duty off Capo Henry.
Gflb lals maintained unusual secrecy
regarding tho matter and would not
disclose. Just what Instructions were
sent tn tho commander of the North
Carolina, It was assumed, however,
that he had been directed to seo that
tho Get man merchant submarine
Deutschland, now preparing for her
roturn trip to Germany, is not attacked
by allied war vessels within the three
mile limit nnd that American neutral
ity Is not othorwlso violated.
Unofficially navy officers agreed that
tho commander of tho vessel had been
guilty of a hrench of naval practice
nnd had violated nnvlgotion laws In
cruising within American territorial
waters without proper lights. While
It was conceded that tho cruiser was
within her rights In entering territor
ial waters, provided sho had observed
tho rules, It was drclared nn attempt
to run into the bay on a scouting o.v
pedltlon and In dlsregnrd of navlga
iion laws, wnum constitute a gross
violation of International courtesy.
'the report was submitted to the
stnto department as n matter of lnfor
matlon.
GERMANY DECLARES
DREADNOUGHT STRUCK
I'nglnnil Snyin It Wnn Merely nn Aiix
lllnry ami ,ot lilt.
Berlin, July 2fi (by wireless to fiay
vllle), A German suhmnrlne nttneked
a British drendnought off the Orkney
Islands on July 20 and obtained two
hits with torpedoos, tho German ad
miralty announced to-dny.
London, July 20. With reference to
tho German statement that a submn
rlno had torpedoed a British drend
nought off the Orkney Islands July 20,
the British admiralty stated that tho
actual facts were as follows:
A small auxiliary off the north of
Scotland was attacked by an enemy
submarine on the --, t&aliCQ&S, gh0
wua not tat, . w
Haltlmore, July 27.-At 1:00 a. m. there
were no Indications that tho submarine
iKuitsciuanil was preparing to leavo her
slip.
NATIONAL GUARD
LIEUTS. GIVEN CHANCE
San Antonio, Texas, July 20. Gen
ernl Funstnn to-day received author!
zation from the war department to
carry out his recent suggestion thnt
second lletitennnts nf tho Nntlonnl
Guard he detailed for service with the
regular army which under tho regu
latlon Is without ofllcers of this grndo
It Is estimated that an nverago of three
socond lletitennnts will be drafted from
each Natlonnl Guard regiment.
BRITISH STKAMEIl SUNK.
London, July 20. An Algiers despatch
tn Lloyds says that tho British steamer
Olive hns been sunk, Her crew was
On vni steamer of 2,2M tons
liar recent movements, hav not it a re
AUTOISTS FINED.
HAPPEN NGS I
THE STATE OF
VERMONT
Local Items of Interest from
All Parts of the Green Moun
tain State Condensed So That
He Who Runs May Read.
THE NEWS By COUNTIES
From the Island in the Lake to
the Passunipsic, Along Otter
iySJE'25lul16 jjjoio Aitno')
VniinK Farmer Found In Wngnn ivlth
Forehcnd Crushed Ills Explana
tion Doubted.
Barton, July 2C ttay Wells, a farm
hand, employed by E. A. DuOioy, was
found with his forehead crushed and un
conscious nt dawn yesterday, tho horso
feeding beside tho road nnd Wells In tho
buggy. Monday evening young Wells
drnvo to Irnshurg to see his sweetheart,
Delia Ducharmo, Ho left for home, nnd
the next known of him was when Thoi.ian
Ducharmo, uncle of Delia, hut living bev
el al miles distant, was nwakened by
groans from tho road.
Tho young man was taken to St. Johnn
hury by Dr. C. N. Cleashy of Orleans,
whero nn operation wns performed nt
Bilghtlook hospital. Several hits of bone
were removed from the brain nnd he re
gained consciousness for a few moments.
Ho claimed ho fell from his buggy, but
tuo physicians s.iv the crushed forehe-id
could hardly result from such a fall. Ho
may live.
WOULD INCREASE
PA! OF ALL TROOPS
NOW ON BORDER
Senate Also Votes Amendment
to Army Bill Making 21 the
Minimum Age of Enlistment
in Regular Army.
BILL WILL PASS TO-BAY
River. Covered by Our Special
Correspondents.
Falls for two weeks. Mrs. S. R. Ran
dall nnd daughters, the Misses Ruth
and Dornce Randall, who have been
vlsltlntr Mrs. F. L. Cashner In East
Creek and Shores Of White Middlcbury, have returned to Flor
ence. Mrs. L. L. Lawrence, wno has
been visiting at her former home here
for a few days, returned Sunday to
Lincoln, where sho is staying for the
present with her brother, Edwin Hill.
II. D. Crooks of Brandon, Charles
Slndor nf Portland, Me., nnd Anton
Moses of Poughkeepsle, N. V., are in
town to spend a week. John Lovett
has returned to Rutland after a few
days in town. E. R. Yates, proprietor
of tho Mlddlebury Steam laundry,
while at work alono at his plant on
Mill street Monday shortly after
one o'clock, was hit on the head by a
piece of glass, cutting quite a gash.
He grabbed up a piece of cloth and
rushed to tho ofllce of Dr. S. S. Eddy,
which is near-by, and hnd the wound
dressed. Monday, market day, eggs
brought 21 and 2G cents and butter 22
to 25 cents. Mr. and Mrs. Fred Mayo
and one nf their daughters, who havo
been visiting at the home of George
E. Abbey on Weybrldge street for n
few days, havo returned to Burlington.
The other daughter will remain here
for some time. Mrs. John Whitman
and daughter, Isabel "Whitman, who
wero run over by nn automobile
driven by John 'Wllmarth of Addison
lnt week Wednesday, are rapidly
recovering nnd were able to be about
the yard at their homo on Seymour
street Monday. Mr. and Mrs. W, B.
Richmond, who have been visiting at
MIDDLEBURY.
The remains of Mrs. Martha Douglas
were brought here Friday noon from
Minneapolis, Minn., nnd taken to tlie un
dertaking rooms of A. J. Blackmer. At
Hil.'j o'clock the body wns taken to the
West cemetery for burial In the family
lot, the Rev. L. A. Baker nf New Haven
ofllclatlng nt the grave, the funeral serv
ices having been held In -Minneapolis. Mrs.
Douglas was a former resident, nnd wns
a sister of the late Pace G. nnd Hubert
('. Potter of this village and of Mrs. V.
V. Blackmer of New Haven. The temalns
were accompanied by her daughter, Mrs.
Cray, and her husband. The bearers
were Col. Charles E. Youtt, Judge .1. E.
Weeks, John A. Fletcher nnd Dr. S. S.
Eddy.
There are nnv over 100 guests at
the Bread Loaf Inn in Ripton, the late
Col. Joseph Battell's famous hostelry,
nnd more nro coming every clay. Prof.
Amendment Giving Soldiers in
the Mexican Service Author
ity to Vote in Field for Presi
dent Is Adopted without Opposition.
E. D. Collins of the college went to
Brldpoit Sunday and conducted serv-! tho home of his mother, Mrs. Charles
GREAT CATHOLIC
GATHERING AT NEW YORK
,relntcN, PrlcntM nnd I.nlty to AsNemhle
Nrt Month 111 Force.
New Yokr, July 20. During ,tho
coming month of August New York
will witness tho greatest gathering nf
Catholic prelates, priests and laity in
iVmerlca since the International
Eucharlstlc Congress assembled In
Montreal In 1010. The occasion will be
the combined conventions of tho Amer
ican Federation of Catholic Societies,
the German Federation nf Catholic So
cieties, tho Catholic Young Men's Na
tlonnl Union nnd the Catholic Press
association, The first three of these
organizations will hold their conven
tions during tho week beginning Sun
day, August 20, while the Catholic
Press association will convene during
the preceding week, but tho delegates
will remain In Now York during the
week of the other great conventions.
His Eminence Cardinal Farley Is the
moving spirit and will be nsslsted by
tho Papal delegate, His Excellency, tho
Most Rev. John Bnnznno. I). D Cnr-
dlnnls Gibbons nnd O'ConneR and many
nf the archbishops and bishops from
nil parts of tho country.
Tho program at St. Patrick's Cathe
dral, whero Cardinal Farley will sing
the Pontlflcnl mass and Cardinal Gib
bons will preach the federation ser
mon, will be attended by the largest
number ever assembled In that historic
cathedral, Governor Whitman, laymen
of prominence, officials of the State and
city, representatives of societies and
races tepresentlng every country In
the world will be there.
At tho Hippodrome Sunday night a
mass meeting will be held, nt which nil
nf the dlgnatorles will be present and
addresses will bo mnde. A musical
program qulto out of the ordinary is
being prepared. The Metropolitan
Opera House orchestra will play nnd
tho famous Ruthenian and Gorman
Choral societies will sing,
Cardinal Farley has generously
given the use of the Cnthedral College
building for the use of the delegates,
and there, In the largo hall, tho con
vention will hold its sessions. Head
quarters will ulso be established thore
NEW U. S. RECORD
FOR SHIP BUILDING
Washington, July 26. Tonnage of ocean
going merchant vessels being built or
ordered in tho United Mates July 1 wns
l.OOil.ono or one-fourth greater than thnt
of vessels under construction in Ger-
mnn yards Jnnuaiy 1, 1014, the dato of
tho greatest activity m iiermnn history,
the bureau of navigation reported to-
day. This was onlV about half the nor
mnl output of Hrltlsh yards In poaco
times, however, thn number of ocean
vessels of more than ltW)0 gross tons
lees In the Bridport Congregational
Church. Mr. nnd Mrs. James Nichols,
James Nichols, Jr., George Nichols and
Miss Jnnetto Nichols havo returned to
"Woodstock p.fter having been for a
week guests of Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Sumner of East Mlddlebury. Miss
Harriet Gaudet of Bethel is visiting
at the home of her grandmother, Mrs.
Mary Bruya. Boyd Brown, son of
Mrs. Grace Brown, who was operated
upon at the Fanny Allen hospital for
adenoids last week, has return
ed. Thomas A. Gnnnin nnd son Rob
ert of Hudson Falls, N. Y., are In
town for several weeks. John K.
Dyer has returned finm the annual
outing of the New England Pal Men's
club. The many friends of W. W.
Wood, a former resident of Middle
bury, but now residing in Lignnier,
Ind will be pleased to learn that ho
has been elected vice-president of tho
Ligonler Chautauqua, which will be
held August 1 to f,, Inclusive. Miss
Katherine Wood Is a member of tho
decoration committee nnd Air. Wood
is also a member of several Impor
tant committee. Tho affair Is under
the direction of the Ligonler Improve
ment society. Mr. nnd Airs. Fred
Alayo nnd two daughters of Burling
ton are visiting at George E. Abbey's.
Miss Ruth Donnelly of Rutland is
visiting her father, Peter J, Donnelly,
at Airs. Elizabeth Wing's In Bridport.
Air. and Airs. Phillip Alnheu and two
children of Alontreal are visiting his
uncle, Frank 'Alnheu, In Cornwall.
Air. and Airs. John W. Ilulett,
who havo been visiting In Middlcbury
and vicinity for several week", left
Saturday for their homo in Aleeker,
Colo. The Misses Ruth and Lucy
Grosvenor, who have been spending n
few weeks nt Long Island sound and
Now Haven, Conn., have returned.
Tho four-yenr-old son of Air. nnd Airs.
Harry R. Lazarowltz was taken to
Burlington Frldny to undergo an op
eration for ndenolds. Airs, Townsend
Young, Airs. E. E. Young and Aliss
Elsie Young of Peeksklll, N, Y aro
at tho Addison Houso for a few days.
Aliss Elizabeth Ryder, a teacher In
New York city, who has been spend
ing two weeks with her parents, Air.
and Airs. E. C. Ryder, hns gone to tho
Lodge on Lnko Champlnin to spend
the remainder nf tho summer. Airs.
Isaac Shackett and children, who
havo been visiting for two weeks in
Troy, N. Y returned Alonday. John
Gern of Proctor spent Sunday in town
with his family, Dr. and Airs, Wntson
of Bridgeport, Conn., aro In town for
a few dnys nt the homo of Airs, Wat
son's pnrents, Mr. nnd Mrs. Allchael
Ilalpln. Aliss Alay Nolan, a niece, nnd
Alexnnder Vnohe, a nephew, both of
New York city, are visiting nt tho
homo of their nunt, Airs, Allen Sturte
vnnt. Airs. Ilorton Jones is visiting
her daughter. Airs. E. G. Farnhnm, of
Sudbury.
Bruno Albert, formerly of Burling
ton, and Aliss Alary F, Geo of Allddle
bury wero married nt St. Alary's
Church at 12:30 o'clock Sunday, tho
Rev. Father T. J, Leonard perform
lug tho ceremony. It was a very quiet
wedding, only the family of tho bride
and a few Intimate friends being pros
cut, The hrldo was gowned In crepe
meteor and wore a hat to match.
Joseph Beaulieu of Burlington was
best man and Aliss AInry Leonard nf
Hurllngton tho bridesmaid. Immedl
ately after the ceremony tho wedding
pnrty wept by automobile to Burling
ton, where thoy hnd dinner, and Inter
In the day started for New Btunswlck
on a hnnoyinoon of four weeks. Upon
their return they will mnko tlielr home
In Mlddlebury. 'Tho hrldo hns been
for seveial years a member of tho mil
llncry firm of Geo Sisters. Tho groom
Is a well known mason nnd has lived
In Allddlebury the most of the time for
the last two yenrs, Aliss Alarlon
Crosby nrrlved Sundny noon after
six weeks' stay In Boston nnd Bellows
Falls, Sho was accompanied by her
mother, Mrs. Jcnnlo At. Crosby, who
has bpa ,YlslUnrjslotlvc3 la Bellows
R. Richmond, have gone to New York
State, where they will travel for a few
weeks. Harry L. Hunt has returned
from Burlington, whero he went to
visit his wife, a patient at the Alary
Fletcher hospital. Airs. Ellen Sears is
at the Fanny Allen hospital, where
sho underwent a successful operation.
(Continued on pne tuo,)
IIN ST 1
L
Washington, July M. Increased pay for
officers -nd men of tho regular army and
national guard in active service for th
Alexlcan emergency, Improved camp
conditions to safeguard their health, and
authorization for them to vote in the field
nt the coming presidential election, wera
provided In amendments to the army ap
propriation bill agreed to to-day by the
Senate. By a vote of 41 to 13 the Senate
also suspended tlie rules to adopt .in
amendment changing the age minimum
for enlistment in the regular army from
1? to 21 years without the consent of
parent or guardian. Under tho provision,
boys under 21 now serving In the army
would not be retained In tho service un
less they filed within 30 day's the writton
consent of their parents or guardian.
The amendment was adopted without a
roll call.
Senntor Reed of Missouri offered the
amendment which would make the ex
isting provision for increased pay to
the army when In service on foreign
soil apply also to service on the Alexl
can border. Under It officers will re
ceive a ten per cent, and enlisted men
20 per cent, increase in pay. Tn adopt
ing this amendment the Senate abo
Increased the House appropriation for
pay from $1,050,000 to $14,178,240.
The amendment giving soldiers tn
the Alexlcan service authority to vote
In field at the national election passod
without opposition. As a safeguard
to the health of soldiers an amend
ment was adopted appropriating $250t
000 for construction of wooden, floor!
and screens in troop tents along the
border.
Tho bill Is expected to pass to-mof-
row.
s
WILL WORK INJURY
President Wilson's Protest, Now-
Prepared, Will Be Sent to
London in Few Days.
Washington, July 2G. President
Wilson nnd stnto department officials
practically have completed preparation
of a protest against the promulgation
of a blacklist of American firms under
tho British trading with the enemy
act. It was said to-day that the com
munlcatlon would bo sent to London In
tho near future, probably within the
next few days. It will discuss tho
principles Involved nnd will not Inter
fere with tho continuance of Informal
discussion of the representatives of tho
two governments of the cases of Indi
vidual firms Included In tho blacklist.
State department ofllclnls believe
that their study of tho blacklist
clearly hns proved that It Injures
American firms tn violation of Interna
tional law. Acting Secretary Polk
talked over with President Wilson to
day facts lnld before him by the Arms
affectfd, and the precedents on which
the ITnited States will act.
When tho principles Involved aro
taken up with tho British government.
It Is expected that Issue also wilt bo
taken with France, Russia and Italy.
Tho allies' view of the legal aspects of
tho blacklist order which probably will
bo tho basis of the parliamentary
statement to bo Issued soon In Ixmdon
nnd bo Incorporated In tho reply to the
American protest Is understood to bo as
follows: Tho allies agreed to enforce In
ternntlonal law against their enemies and
upon nil their subjects without dlstlnc
tion. Tho continental rule, applied by
Germany, France, Italy and Russia, In
tcrprets tno word "enemy ns a person
of enemy origin or Interests. English
nnd American precedents put the em
pbasls on domicile. Consequently British
subjects have considered they could trade
with any enemy firm domiciled In a neu
tral country.
If the continental view of tho law wero
applied iby Great Britain, suspicion would
attach, tho British government contends
to overy firm of German name In a neu
tral country, Tho trade of the British
empire with the United States for tho 11
months ending Alay 30 amounted tn two
nnd a half billion dollars, or almost half
of tho total foreign commerce of America,
Of nil the firms engaged In this trndo only
31 hnvo been declared to he enemy firms.
A withdrawal of the list, it is further
contended, would hnvo tho effect of cost
Ing suspicion on transactions with nil
firms having German names which aro
acting entirely In neutral Intorest and
whoso profits nro nrcruluR to neutrals.
Tho effect of the prohibition to trndo with
theso firms would bo to trnnsfer British
business from dims acting In tho Interest
of Germany to firms acting in tho Intor
est of. tho United Statea.
AUTOPSY DISCLOSES
NO FOUL PLAY
of noy
Authorities Investigate Case
Well of Orlenns.
St. .Tohnsbury. July 26. An autopsy
performed to-day over the body of
Roy Wells who wns admitted to
Brlghtlook hospital from Orleans last
night and died this morning showed
that ho died of a blood clot in the pul
monary artery. Wells was found yes
terday In his wagon between Orleane
nnd Irasburg. He was unconscious and
an examination disclosed a fractured
skull. At first foul play was feared,
but at tho autopsy it developed that
the Injury might havo been caused by
tho kick of a horse, nnd ns the animal
he drove was known to be vicious, this
theory hns been generally accepted.
The autopsy was conducted by Dr.
B. F, Stone nnd Dr. C. F. Whitney of
the State laboratory of hygiene, as
sisted by Dr. J. AI. Allen. State's At
torney Aaron Grout of Newport at
tended, and while he Is satisfied with
tho doctors' findings, he will continue
tho investigation. Wells was 21 years
old and leaves eight brothers and three
sisters. The body was taken to Orleans
to-night for burial.
THIS MURDER NEW TO
CRIMINAL SCIENCE
Air Bubbled Enter Circulatory System
nf Girl, Causing Oenth.
Olney, 111., July 26. An explanation of
tho circumstances to which are attributed
tho death of Aliss Elizabeth Radcllffa
near here lato Friday night, wns given
to-day by II. G. Alorris, State's attor
ney. Because of the girl's death, Roy Hlnter
llter Is awaiting nctlon by the November
grand Jury. He was held without hall
after tho verdict of the coroner's Jury yes
terday. The death of Aliss Rndcllffe, It is claim
ed by tho Stnte's attorney, was due to n,
bungling attempt to perform an lllecal
operation. Air bubbles, It Is claimed, en
tered the circulatory system of the yo iti,
girl, and when they reached the heart, ft
brain, death must have resulted. St ite'j
Attorney Alorris to-dny gave out a state
ment explaining tho pathological features
of the case.
Stating that the autopsy showed thnt
tho girl was In a delicate condition,
the prosecutor added:
"There wero no exterior marks of
violence. Three experienced surgeoiu
found all organs perfectly normal."
"In cutting into the right ventricle,"
ho continued, "air escaped, The heart
was perfectly healthy. When the sur
geons removed the top nf the skull,
they noticed bubbles of air. All hlooil
vessels of tho brain showed nlr cir
culation. There were no structural
changes, but on a test the hraln llontecl
In water, Thoro wns no lesion of tho
lungs,
"Later H was discovered that a man
threw away an Instrument used In Il
legal operations while going to tho
sanitarium, It wns found, The man
had boasted of previously using such
Instruments."
The prosecutor has letters said to
have, been written by Hlntcrlitcr to the
