Ciyt Normal ScfcoaL
E WEEKLY TRI
BUNE
THE TRIBUNE'S CIRCULa
TION IS THE LARGEST IN
CAPE GIRARDEAU, t t i
JOHN A. HOPE
HITS ATKINSON'S
UTILITY RECORD
Says His First Move in Office
Favored The Frisco
Railroad
PLAGIARIZED LAW
FROM N. Y. STATE
Last Move In Office on Frisco
Plan Makes Him Unsafe
as Governor
John A. Hope, formerly of the Cape,
now counsel for the Cape Girardeau
& Northern Railroad, yesterday was in
the city in the interests of the C. G.
& N., when he turned over to The
Tribune a letter which he wrote to a
St Louis newspaper in which he out
lined John M. Atkinson's activities on
the utility board and as a candidate for
Governor.
Mr. Hope declares that in the out
set, Atkinson is not the author of the
law creating the Public Service Com
mission, and he explains some of his
manipulations of the board in handling
the Frisco Railroad.
He said that the Public Service Com
mission virtually told unsecured cred
itors that they could get half their
claims if they first succeeded in beat
ing the Frisco in the courts. They were
allowed to go unprotected rather than
have the railroad reorganizes guaran
tee dollar for dollar on their claims
before the reorganization should be
approved.
Mr. Hope's letter is as follows:
"Cape Girardeau County is my home
county, and I would like to see a
Southeast Missouri Democrat nominat
ed for Governor. Mr. Atkinson is mak
ing the race as a candidate of that sec
tion. I regret to have to say that
with such splendid leaders as Gard
ner, Roach and Painter in the race,
I do not think Atkinson can be nom
inated. Besides, if nominated, his
Public Service Commission record
would likely defeat him and endanger
the whole Democratic ticket in Novem
ber. "Mr. Atkinson claims great credit
for being the author of the Public :
Service Commission law. As a matter
of fact, the law is a copy, substantially
verbatim, of the New York statute, a
piece of copy work any school boy
could do. In point of originality and
llti an example of constructive law
making ability, it is insignificant in
comparison with Col. Gardner's land
bank measure.
"But it is Mr. Atkinson's record as
chairman of the commission that
makes it, to say the least, inexpedient
to nominate him. The law creating the
commission went into effect April 15,
1913. According to the published offi
cial reports of the commission, Mr.
Atkinson's first act as chairman of
that body was on May 22, 1913, when
he concurred in an order granting the
Frisco Railroad permission to issue
$701,000 of bonds. The application
for the order, as the order itself re
cites, showed that the Frisco had debts
to the amount of $291,604',000 against
property of the total book value of
only $255,840,000.
"Here we see Mr. Atkinson, only
four days before the Frisco went into
the hands of receivers, as the chair
man of a commission created for the
purpose of keeping within the value of
their properties, as one of his first offi
cial acts, licensing a bankrupt railroad
to issue additional bonds, in the face of
the roads' own showing that its debts
then exceeded the value of its property
by nearly $40,000,000, and in the face
of the well-known fact that the cap
italization of the Frisco was to a large
extent water, due to the manner in
which its securities had been manipu
lated and exploited by .New York fi
nancial buccaneers.
"Mr. Atkinson's resignation as chair
man of the commission, like the begin
ning of his career in that office, was
accompanied by activities in connec
tion with the Frisco. The reorganiza
tion managers came on from the East
and presented their scheme to reor
ganize the Frisco and take it out of
the custody of the receivers. And in
a decision in which Mr. Atkinson par
ticipated, the commission found that
(Continued oh p 4.)
VOL. XV.
HILL REVEALS
HARRISON DEAL
AT SIKESTON
Declares in Speech Cape
Man Got What He Agreed
To Take
CLOSES CAMPAIGN IN
CONGRESSIONAL RACE
Speaks On National Issues-
Stands For Protection and
Big Business.
Details of how Tom Hoskins of
Morehouse, one of William H. Harri
son's managers in his candidacy to be
come a Republican national convention
delegate, accepted 11 votes for Harri
son from Butler County, rather than
take a chance of losing all in a fight
on the convention floor for more, last
night were told by David W. Hill, one
of the candidates for Congress.
Harrison was defeated at the Sikes-
ton March 6 congressional convention
when the delegates decided to put the
skids under E. W. Flentge, Ed Regen-
hardt and the Naeters who took charge
of Harrison's campaign.
The triumvirate now is attempting
to use spurs a foot long in riding Hen
ry S. Wilson of Ava, into power and
fighting Hill in his race for the Con
gressional nomination by declaring he
did nothing to aid Cape County's can
didate for the delegateship at Sikes-
ton.
Hill told of Butler County's action
in his speech which closed his cam
paign in this count. When the forces
ined up for the Sikeston convention
ast March, Hill said, L. M. Henson,
a power in Butler County politics and
a Republican, favored Sam Eulin of
Dexter.
When Harrison got into the field, a
fight loomed up in the Butler County
contingent. To give votes to Harri
son took them away from Eulin and
over Henson's protest.
The delegation caucussed, Hill sairt,
and compromised their county fight by
offering to give Harrison 11 votes. The
county was represented with 22 dele
gates, each of whom voted on two can
didates in the convention. J
"Our county chairman, E. E. Whit
worth, called Tom Hoskins by long
distance telephone, before the Sikes
ton convention, and told him the situa
tion. He made the offer of 11 votes
and said that anything else meant a
fight. He asked Hoskins if that was
all right," Hill said, "and Hoskins re
plied that Harrison would take the 11
votes."
"The record of the convention will
show that Cape County got from Pop
lar Bluff and Butler County, just what
she agreed to take," he said. "Yet
someone is trying to knife me in the
back."
Hill then told how he had gone to
the front for E. W. Flentge years ago
n a fight to nominate him for State
Railroad and Warehouse Commission
er. His fight put Flentge across and
now Flentge is fighting Hill.
"Tell.them what you did for Regen-
hardt," Jim Hogg called out to HuT.
The speaker continued and explained
subsequently to a reporter for The
Tribune that what Mr. Hogg, Poplar
Bluff Republican leader, referred to
was his fight for Regenhardt in 1912
to make him a national convention
delegate when he was for Taft. Reg
enhardt now opposes him.
A large crowd attended the meeting
to hear Hill speak. He delivered an
address in which he took up national
issues and likewise spoke of Missouri
legislation in which to took a hand.
He declared he is unequivocally in
favor of protective tariff to care for
the home markets of home made
goods.
"We had to feed wheat to our hogs
when it fell to 60 cents before the
war," he said, "and Albert Von Hoff
man of St. Louis, ran a soup kitchen
to feed unemployed men. The coun
try was going into a panic worse than
that of Cleveland's administration
when the war saved it."
He also scored the Democratic ad
ministration in Missouri and likened
Governor Major's tangoing, trotting
and bunny-hugging to the fiddling of
(Continued on page 4.)
A NEWSPAPER THAT PRINTS ALL THE NEWS THAT'S FIT
THE CAPE COUNTY HERALD, CAPE GIRARDEAU
Germans Unloading Machine Guns For Service
In Campaign Against Franco-British Troops
rv j .-ym..:... - - v--
This photograph was brought to this country on hoard the German trMiisoceiinlc; subimirine Deutsehland. It
shows a company of Gorman marine infantry, oue of the most efficient brunches of the service, unloading ma
chine guns from a train fn Flanders.
FARMER CAPTURES
MEAT-EATING BIRD
Gobbles Mice at a Gulp and
Makes Dessert of
Snakes.
George Weiss, well-known farmer
living on the Perryvi'le road, has cap
tured a bird for the Fairgrounds Park
Zoo which he is unable to identify.
He says it looks like it is a young
eagle, and yet, he says, it might be
just an overgrown hawk. He has the
bird caged on his farm and has offered
it to the zoo if someone will come and
take it from his farm.
The bird is so vicious, Mr. Weiss de
clares, he does not care to get familiar
with it and he hands it its bird feed
on the end of a long pole. By the way,
the fowl is carnivorous it devours
meat and that is a reason why Mr.
Weiss thinks perhaps he might have
an eagle on hand.
Mr. Weiss turned some lr.ice into the
8-foot squirrel cage in which he keeps
the fowl. The bird pounced on' the
live animals with both feet, raking
them together with long sharp talons
and swallowed virtually a mouse at a
gobble.
A live rat that was turned loose in
the cage fared no better and Mr. Weiss
declares that snakes which have been
thrown his way simply make dessert
for the bird.
Mr. Weiss captured the oag:e-havk
a w?ek ago last Sunday when he was
out on a tramping expedition over his
farm. He saw the bird flying along
the ground and followed it. He was
able to get relatively close upon the
bird and could not decide if it was a
hawk. He decided he would work to
ward his house where he expected to
get his gun and try to bring the fowl
down.
As he approched the house he began
running and the bird took flight. It
made an aeroplane flight from the
ground to the limbs of a tree and as it
threw out its claws to stop on one
of the tree branches, it lost its bal
ance. Hie claws were sunk deep into the
bark of the tree branch, but the body
of the large bird swung down beneath
the limb instead of the bird coming
to a resting position on the branch.
The bird apparently was non-plussed
by this landing and while endeavoring
to recover its equilibrium and holding
to the tree at the same time, afforded
Mr. Weiss an opportunity to land a
knockout blow that resulted in the
capture. Mr. Weiss seized a large
club, swung on the bird and' hit it
about the back of the neck.
The bird saw stars and fell uncon
scious. When the fowl was revived in
the squirrel cage, it was fighting mad
and frightened several canines into
their kennels that had snooped around
to make an inspection.
Allen Kimmel last night told Mayor
Kage that he will endeavor to bring
the bird into the zoo.
The pair of geese which were
placed on the lake in the park have
ARTHUR KOEPPEL,
EXPRESSMAN, DIES
Passed Away After 4-Weeks Ill
ness Funeral Probably
Friday.
Arthur Koeppel, well-known express
messenger, died about 3:30 o'clock
yesterday afternoon at his home at 33
North Henderson avenue after an ill
ness of about four weeks. Tubercu
losis and meningitis of .the brain were
the combined causes of his death.
Mr. Koeppel had been critically ill
for several days and his death had
been expected almost hourly. He was
"2'J years old last February.
For the last four years he had been
employed by the express company, and
he had lived in the Cape for eight
years. He was born at Egypt Mills
and came here after he had been raised
on a farm there.
He had the regular run on the Hoxie
train as an express messenger and was
well known along his route.
Funeral plans yesterday evening
had not been completed, but the serv
ices probably will be conducted tomor
row afternoon at the family home.
Bufo'al will be in Fairmount Cemetery.
Mr. Koeppel is survived by his wife
and two children, Oma Koeppel, who
is 4 years old, and Ivan, who is 2. He
likewise is survived by his father anil
mother, Mr. and Mrs. John K. Koep
pel, who reside at 39 North Benton
street.
Albert Koeppel of the Cape, a broth
er, survives and he has three sisters
Mrs. Frank Raetz, Mrs. Henry Ractz
and Mrs. Walter Roth all of the Cape.
Likewise there are three half
brothers, John, Charles and William
Koeppel. all of the Cape, and a half
sister, Mrs. Gus Gictz, of St. Louis.
Mrs. Gietz will arrive from St. Louis
to attend the funeral services.
GEORGE MEYER AN UNCLE
?tork Leaves Ten-Pound Boy at Home
of C. Hi W. Meyer.
Ciy Collector George H. Meyer late
Tuesday night became an uncle when
a 10-pound baby boy arrived at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. C. H. W. Meyer,
of 109 South Henderson avenue.
The father of the child is one of the
proprietors of the Meyer & Suedekum
hardware store and is a brother of the
collector. The baby boy is the first to
arrive at the Meyer home, and yester
day both mother and child were re
ported doing well.
disappeared as well as the young
o'possum that had been making its
home at the park.
Allen Kimmel yesterday told the
mayor that he saw the 'possum play
ing in the middle of the Jackson road
a short time ago. The animal was on
top of the hill where the old toll gate
formerly stood and as Mr. Kimmell
drove up, he jumped out in an effort
to make a capture.
The 'possum scampered back under
the fence and disappeared.
TO PRINT AND PRINTS IT FIRST
MISSOURI, JULY 27. 1916.
TRUCK OVERTURNS;
SNAPS NEGRO'S LEG
Warren Osborn Buried Beneath
Car Three Miles West of
Allenville.
Warner Osborn, a negro living on
North Main street, late last night had
his right leg broken when he was
:aught beneath the heavy auto truck of
the Green Tree Brewery as it over
turned on the old Bloomf.eld road,
jthree miles west of Allenville.
The truck was loaded with empty
cases and was on the way to the Cape
from a point seven miles on the other
side of Allenville. One of the lights
had gone bad and Frazier Wray was
driving around a sharp bend in the
road, when he went a little too close
to the edge of the road.
The embankment gave way beneath
the wheels of the truck and the ma
chine went over on its side. Osborn
had been riding on the fender on that
side of the car and was caught beneath
the machin.
Wray sustained a severe sprain of
the left ankle when the car went over.
Two other men who were on the car
with him, Fred Huffman and Gale
Franklin, escaped injury.
Osborn was extricated from beneath
he car, and within a few minutes Dr.
Sample of Chaffee passed by. He stop
ped and bound up the negro's leg tiT?
he could reach the Cape and receive
medical treatment at his home. Wray
telephoned to the Park Auto Company
who sent a car to take Osborn to the
Cape and righted the truck, which was
not damaged by the accident and con
tinued on the way into the city.
WORKING FOR CRAMER
Warren Mahrey Aiding in Fight for
St. Louis Court of Appeals.
Col. Warren L. Mabrey, chairman of
the Republican County Central Com
mittee, this week is in St. Louis where
he is working in the interest of Judge
Wilson Cramer, who is a candidate for
the Republican nomination for the St.
Louis Court of Appeals.
Judge Cramer has the support of
Federal Judge Pat Dyer in St. Louis
as well as several other leading Re
publicans there. He is expected to
carry Cape County, his home, solidly.
HAMLIN IS NAMED AGAIN
Washington, July 26. Charles S.
Hamlin of Massochusetts, Governor of
the Federal Reserve Board, was nomi
nated for another term today by Pres
ident Wilson.
BASEBALL SCORES.
National.
St. Louis 3-0; Brooklyn 2-5.
Pittsburg 1-5; Philadelphia 7-2.
New York 2; Cincinnati 4.
Chicago 0; Boston 1.
American.
Philadelphia 0-1; St. Louis 5-5.
New York 0; Chicago 2.
Boston 3; Cleveland 2.
Washington 6; Detroit 6.
NUMBER 29.
DEUTCHLAND IS
GIVEN RIGHT TO
AIL FOR. HOME
German Undersea Boat Will Start
on Its Return Voyage Within
Forty-eight Hours, Capt. Koenig
Asserts.
UNITED STATES SENDS CRUISER
TO BAY TO ENFORCE NEUTRALITY
Germans Launch Gigantic Move
on All Fronts, London Says Ex
pected to be Most Vigorous Strike
Since War Began.
SPECIAL DISPATCH TO THE TRIBUNE.
Balti more, July 26. The Deutsehland was formally granted permission
to sail late this afternoon. Capt. Paul Koenig, her commander, inferred that
he would start on his homeward trip within the next 48 hours. It was ex
pected that the Deutsehland would slip away tonight, but at 1 o'clock this
morning she was still at anchor.
The British merchantman Ardgrayfe came into the river this afternoon
j and anchored near the Deutsehland.
for ballast, but in reality she is watching the German undersea boat.
The searchlight of the tugboat Thomas F. Timmins, which guards the
submarine, kept playing over the harbor tonight. The Deutsehland is ready
to depart as soon as the order from Capt. Koenig is pronounced.
The United States Navy today ordered the cruiser North Carolina and
three destroyers to take up their position off Cape Henry to enforce neu
trality. This action was taken following the dash of the British warship into
Chesapeake Bay yesterday. The British have the right to send a warship
into neutral port for 24 hours once in three months.
There is much speculaion as to the fate of the Deutsehland. The con
sensus of opinion is that she will be able to evade the British warships which
ere waiting for the submarine just outside the three-mile line. In as much
as the United States Government tabooed the British demand that the Wash
ington Government compel the Deutsehland to cross the three-mile line above
water, it is believed that the undersea craft will submerge shortly after
clearing Chesapeake Bay.
The unusual stay of the submarine has been the basis of many rumors.
A story printed in the Baltimore newspapers today says that the Deutsch
land's delay was for the purpose of giving a fleet of armed submarines an
opportunity to cross the ocean. These, if the report is true, will attempt to
sink the British warships that are waiting for the Deutsehland. There is
nothing to substantiate this report and not much credence is given it. But it
is not beyond the range of possibilities.
Washington, July 26. It was announced by the State Department today
that the protest -against Great Britain's blacklist would go forward very
shortly. The document will probably come before the Cabinet meeting Fri
day and will then be dispatched to London. It is believed that the note will
precipitate a serious crisis between this country and Great Britain.
Special dispatch to The Tribune.
London, July 26. With the Russians
making further progress in Galicia and
lelivering heavy blows, Field Marshal
von Hindenburg has launched a coun
ter attack in the Far North. The
fighting is the heaviest that has taken
place along the entire eastern front
from the Riga section. 000 miles south
ward to Volhynia and Galicia. Tho
3erman stroke in the North is deliver
ed by land and air, piercing the Rus
sian front for a distance of several
undred yards.
Special Dispatch to The Tribune.
Vienna, July 26. In Volhynia, north
of Lutsk, the Russians have been re
pulsed. One hundred men and two
machine guns were captured. The Ital
ans have lost 12,500 killed and wound
ed since Monday.
Special Dispatch to The Tribune.
London, July 26. Germany has seal
ed the Belgian frontier, according to
an Amsterdam dispatch. Germany is
pourin ggreat masses of troops into
the western theater and the frontier is
closed to prevent their movements be
coming known. The Belgians are not
allowed to leave their homes.
It is indicated that the Kaiser plans
a tremendous counter stroke against
the Franco-British. It' may take the
form of a long expected drive on Ca-
ais in an effort to relieve the pressure
on Picardy. The capture of Pozieres
s the most important victory yet for
the British.
Special Dispatch to The Tribune .
With the German Army at Peronne,
via Berlin, Amsterdam and London,
July 24. The German line has with
stood the first shock of the combined
British fcnd French offensive, spelling
failure for the entire allied drive.
This is the individual opinion of offi
THE TRIBUNE COVERS
SOUTHEAST MISSOURI
LIKE THE DEW. , ,
The merchantman is supposed to be here
cers and men here where the shock
of the French thrust was most for
mdable. Lack of co-operation and in
ability of the allies to "follow up" their
initial forward movement have given
complete confidence to the German ar
my that it can withstand whatever else
the allies may have in store.
That complete confidence is felt is
illustrated in the fact that Kaiser Wil
helm, having viewed the German lines,
departed for the east front certain of
the ability of his troops to hold their
line in Flanders.
The wedge which the French pushed
forward in their drive is now really
dangerous to them, since the German
artillery has seized the opportunity to
flay their flanks.
The French are attempting to ex
tend this wedge by thrusting toward
the south, in the direction of Roye, but,
in the opinion of all with whom I talk
ed here, this attempt comes too late.
What the French might have ob
tainel had they followed up their first
swing is now impossible of attainment.
Peronne itself has not suffered so
far in the fighting, but Chaulnes has
been heavily bombarded. Barleau
Maisonnette at the extreme, point of
the French wedge, is being violently
showered by shrapnel. Biaches is in
German hands except a few small
houses. Apparently the French move
ment forward has temporarily ceased.
I was accorded an opportunity from
an observation point where the details
of the battle westward were plainly
visible, of seeing reserve German ar
tillery behind those sectors where the
Anglo-French drive was inevitably
successful and where the Germans,
months ago knowing it would be suc
cessful, had prepared to stop it be
yond a certain point.
