PUTNAM
"TO
VOLUME XIV.
COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE, THUittPAY. JULY 27, 1910.
XUMBEIS 30
COUNTY
T
ii r
JUL
I.
TENNESSEE NEWS
CUT TO THE QUICK
FOR BUSY READERS
The enrollment at the summer term
of the East Tennessee State formal
was the largest In the htetory of the
school. A total of 995 students en
rolled, representing "every county in
East and some Middle Tennessee coun
ties, 147 of whom graduated at the
closing exercises held in Johnson City.
The fall term promises to include an
unusual attendance, many rooms hav- j Granville.
PROGRAM WOMAN'S CONFERENCE PARENT TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION COMMERCIAL CLUB
Last Monday nght the business men
. .... . rpi,- ,! . . Xj&SI JUOOQi
10 oe neia ai iooKeviiie August First ' """S ui me rarent- of roiroviiia 7 i
person, Algood.
"Organization and Education' Slogan Teachers' Association was held In the and orsanTzedtte cSSk!SXS
f ,. r fa Rest Room voRtarriav artomvnn m. ana . organized tne Cookeville Com-
J? Carlen nres din. Thrro,:' mcial Club by adopting by-laws ;
Addresses of Welcome Mayor O K. ness was postponed until next meet. g Ztvn V10 D?rjr' ... I
ood. Conference to be held here next TneV ine balloting re- - '..a
Mr
Mt. View Lodge No. 179, I O O F
Floods damage Southern Railway
one million dollars,
nt i . . .... ... Qfl loaf waAb D T urm:
IHT2S SSiMLSffr ITaWtU
Rockwood is 'to"h.ve a ,50,000 stove- -it. for the Tess National Woman's be given an opportunity to speak on LZoZZlt Se HavHand, Ka Br; w H BaD D
"u"" ! r'ns.mBQeV.0.mc"rB De,n CoxEDDerson.AiVooS " 'MDk T This T movement fVrn7. tckets and elected an entirely . cuon
works plant.
Damage to the extent of half a mil
lion dollars, caused from the flood, Is
reported in Knox County.
The Hartford Hosiery Mill, of Chat-
tent to all of the larger cities In search
for new material.
"Killed in action" were the words
written across the face of a letter
tanogoa, has increased Its capital stock Bent to ber 20-year-old son in France
from $100,00 to $200,000. last May and returned to Mrs. Mag-
Huntington is included in the new fie Hathaway at Hampton, Tenn.
public buildings bill in Congress for a Young Hathaway volunteered in Can-
$25,000 postoffice building. , ada August 25, 1915, was wounded In
A movement is on foot to consoll- the trenches in February, 1916, and
date the two telephone system in John- killed on June 9th. Mrs. Hathaway
son City . . is a widow and the young man was
General response from various parts her sole support,
of Tennessee was made to the procla- Mrs. Sarah Link, residing at Irons-
mation of Governor Rye, designating burg, In Monroe County, bears the dis-
July 27th as "Good Roads Day." Unction of teing the oldest Inhabitant
McMinn County will vote, Novem- of East TeLnessee. She is 113 years
ber 7th, on the question of issuing of age, having been born December
$250,000 In bonds for road improve- 16, 1803. Mrs. Link is the mother of
ments. 13 children, her baby, Margaret Smith,
The Chattanooga bank clearings In- being 78 years old. Some seven years
creased 62 per cent over a correspond- age Mrs. Link lost her eyesight, but
ing week of one year ago, which was aside from this she is in reasonably
the beet of any city in the South. good health and is attending to most
Officials announce that it will be a of her domestic duties,
month before traffic can resume over R. Manler, Sr., secretary of the
the C, C. & O. Railway between John- committee of a hundred selected at
son City and Spartanburg, S. C, owing tte All-South Convention In Memphis
to flood damage. t0 preBent t0 President Wilson or the
The first pay day at Camp Rye for commission appointed by him the
the Tennessee National Guards re- claims that Muscle Shoals, Ala., is the
quirea a pay rou oi sis.uuu, wnicn am loglcal p,,, for the location of the
noi inciuae money ior me rejected $20,000,000 government nitrate plant,
men- has sent official notifications of their
Governor Rye has been invited to selection to all the members of the
Knoxville July 28th to attend the committee -of a hundred and of the
drummers' picnic and to meet the vaxiow sub-committees.
ureat rropnet or me smoKies. More t the three years since Bristol,
man s.utH) tickets nave Deen sold, and I Tenn.. has been cruided bv commis
this is expected to be the biggest pic- gion form of government, the assets
nic ever given In Knoxville. 0f the city have increased $109,421 43
Forty gallons of whiskey, found in a over the liabilities, according to t'ae
nouse at Maryvuie, were tanen to tne report of the 1915-1916 audit made by
government internal revenue omce at w. M. Black, a certified public ac-
ivnoxvuie. Mne wnisicy is tnougnt Dy countant of Knoxville. The report
omcers to nave oeen maae m s&evicr Bhowss that during the past year the
net gain of assets over liabilities
io vu iuo new yuBB wuru, ana u is
pleasure to know that every broth-
Cox Epperson, Algood
Greetings from V. C. T. U. of Ten- Mtion has become most popular and S InAJZ. ii E wniiT t S gave out
Cox. C S Jenkins. W A Hnalv. B L ' pleasui
aou vu oi uwinues. wuiu ytaieau to mis comerence, a wf TO a u." t w-,"r.'-T r nnan vD. .Ktini m
Education and Federation Mrs. G. step has been made forward that will Sam Edward. "uum ana - -
WnneywPre8i?en4, edratlon- f1 rf,8ults 01 Kreat Sd t0 Thereupon the Club adjourned The 1 Tne Sovereign Grand Lodge will
What a Woman's Club Means to a the entire section. hrtJ,!! "5,, ZrZ , 4 i meet in Sentombor at rhattanfira a
Town-Mrs. Kate Miller. Gallatin. j 'Organization and Education', the onSThi' XoSPS ZMtaSSSHtA
Inspiration of Federat on Mrs. slogan of the day, are the keys that j"; t"" " " Odd Fellows to be in attendanp W
Claude Sullivan Nashville open the door to Opportunity to boys SSSfSTSSl deSanTthe ilftJd'fS? ?dl
FourthDtHrf Cderated C,UbS ' the methodf SSStanVS.6, mlttees d sKh oth committees as "e and a half cents per mile, each
Fourth District. . method of perfecting anything and th h ,way. An extraordinary interesting
Patriotic Organizations: 'Education is fast coming this way. d s Edward, offered o. time Is promised, and all who can
V raWV-L The progl;am ?a8,bedil,d,fd tat0 luitoBtru! ould be in attendance, for very
Mrs. T. P0I5 Jackson. four general topics to be led by com- correspond thBurughr& Twlor kelv. t will not again meet so near
U. D. C Object and Eligibility Petent leaders. Under the head of of cave wh wiU move tteir woolen us for many years. As many as can
Mrs. Norman Powell, president. Federation and Education. Mrs. G. Itii Il'j J?j!H.i?J nhnnid attend oiir nPTt mpotfnJiiiv
ProDor0 nf rr,o TTitTOT,, " xr W IVnni, f VnnwtUo will h... touctotui IV nwuiB 11 IUI - -- '
YJ T- 1 m 1.1, A1 n XT' 1MJ "II.. V- VUUAeYlllO.
B. Dozier. Franklin
charge of Federated Clubs, assisted
An Educational Factor Mrs. Edgar by Mrs. Claude Sullivan of Nashville. ' VUS g c rtrv of Th
Green, Lebanon. Mrs. Thomas Polk of Jackson. State ' Jarea Becretar or 1116
Developer of Patriotism Miss Mary Regent of the D A R, and Mrs. Nor- mee"us- '
Jenkins, Lebanon. man Powell, of Johnson City, Presi-, CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION
A Social Factor Mrs. Sam Golladay dent of t DC will lead In the discus- To the Voters of Putnam County:
Lebanon. sions about Patriotic Organizations, On Aug. 3 the voters of this state
Caring for the Living; Erecting Mon. assisted by Mrs. N. B. Dozier; Mrs. wni vote upon the question of calling
uments to the Dead Mrs. F. Mills Eugene Crutcher as president of Pa- a constitutional convention.
spring city. rent Teachers' Association or Tennes.
Marking Historical Spots and Trails see, will conduct the
Mrs. B. D. Bell, Gallatin. Organizations and the
School Organizations:
Polytechnic
bllties President Early. Ian Church of Nashville, Mrs. A. B. their ballots'on Aueust 3rd "Aealnnt
29th
Cookeville Camp No. 12248, celebrat.
itlon or Tennes. Without entering into a lengthy dis- 'edVk To tenth "VW. " w
talks on School cu-pion of the question, we ye-.S l?Tffa"
Church Organ!. lhat n constitutional convention "iL.T1.. sh?r : Program, Including
sanizations: zations will be under the leadership fihould be held at this time and urge 'L 2r month7nf f h W?.f k
mic; Prospects and Possl-'of Mrs. Wlggington of the Presbyter- the vorers of Putnam county to caK r,?,?,"! 6J5,l by.
-President Early. Ian Church of Nashville. Mrs. A. B. their ballots'on August M Ant-y!ttarS-
Cooperation of Teachers and Par. Smith of the M. E. Church, Mrs. Alt- a Convention."
I by a short address by Representative
1T3 " ' H I ,1111 Vf III lUIl. '. T " - . - . .
ents Necessary for Development man. of the Baptist Church, Miss Esh. 0ur state has a splendid constitution-: ili v"!u . L ln sTi
nberland, and Mrs. Kobln- drafted by a constitutional convention .JXjr ThJ TZttZZ - 5! - .-Ji-
of aaSchool MlsB Ella Snodgrass, man of Cumberland,
sparca.
amounted to $45,159.61. During tue
year 1913-1914 the gain was $48,085.94
and during 1914-1915, 16,176.61.
W. F. Russell, editor of the Polk
county and taken to the house for
distt-ibutlon tj'bootleggers." ;
- Trade conditions and fall prospects
were the principal subjects discussed
at the semi-annual meeting of the County News, published at Benton,
Southern Appalachian Coal Operators' was cleared of a charge of libel
Association meeting held in Knoxville brought !n a $50,000 damage suit by
attended by 80 of the largest opera- five former pike commissioners whom
tors. It is said that the best coal sea- he had accused of misappropriating
son in many years is in sight. funds, in - connection with their ad-
About $100,000 worth of Tennessee ministration. The Jury was out but a
marble from Knox County quarries few minutes. ' The Judge granted a
will be used in tins construction of the new trial, but the defense attorneys
$2,000,000 model court house of Amer- filed a wayside bill of exceptions
. lea, which Is being built at Cincin- which, If sustained by the supre.ne
nati. Two Knoxville mills will finish court, will establish the verdict
this marble ready for installation In reached.
the great structure. Secretary R. Q. Lillard, of the State
The Knoxville Board of Commerce Is Board of Health, has written to all
Interested in securing one of tne na- county health officers In Tennessee in-
tlonal land loan banks authorized by etructing them to watch all possible
congress under the rural credit bill, infantile paralysis cases closely. Chil-
ana win proDaoiy soon start a cam- den arriving within the state from
paign with this object in view.- Nash- dties where the disease is epidemic
Till and Memphis are also making are to be kept under observation for
campaigns for their respective cities. 21 days. ; All suspected and actual
The Huntsville Chamber of Com- cases shall be 'Isolated immediately
merce has definitely decided to liold and promptly. Reports of all new
an" agricultural fair this fall. Prizes cases must be made to the State Board,
will be offered for all competing ex- The letter also contains detailed in
hibits, but there will be no charge for structions for the prevention and treat
admission. The exhibits will be ment of the disease,
placed on the streets surrounding The' second annual Bankers-Farm-Court
8quare. ers conference will be held in Mera-
The will of W. R. Fry, establishing phis August 8th, participated In by
a trust fund for his estate, valued any the banks of Tennessee, Mississippi,
where from $150,000 to $200,000, to be Arkansas and Western Alabama. Fif
devoted to the establishment of the leen hundred bankers have been in
Fry Institute In North Chattanooga vited. The object of this conference
for the benefit of working people, was is to exchange experiences in farm
sustained m a decree handed down by development work, to consider meth
Eugene Crutcher, Nashville.
School Libraries Mrs. Pearl Wil
liams Kelley, Nashville.
Community Libraries Mrs. J. B,
Johnson, Crossyllle,
son of the Christian Church, all state composed of men of unoeustioned cier ?ve .a.Iewf
Parent-Teachers' Association Mrs. presidents of their respective Mission ability and patriotism. Any change ' ."cJfrn5. llmT.mPe.rBnip V tne
Boards. Iwwh m n. k aa i tioiuus ueignuors irom
which may really be needed in our " "'"J'f
" state convention can be had by the ' ZX "nrh ..i h 7.
FIELD MEETINGS :slmple Bafe and inexpensive method , A-A
frv- minra rtnn f .mi .a nAA tnr. irt a ' ence. a spienoia social nour was
holnw n fnr the, nnrnoBfl of dlBCUSB. tide XI Section 3 thereof. , ""f ww oujuyou
The Story Hour In School Mrs. J. Ing Beed gelection and cover crops1 Many of the innovations proposed fl f. a!ml,l.ti: .
C. Mcuearman. uooKevuie. and Beeding of grass and clover. It by the advocates of a constitutional o i J,7,.ZZ
Normal and Industrial School for ls hoped that every farmer In these convention are radical and revolution. "w L-iV. -wJ5? E i
wins Mrs. XNora lee Jones, or , communities will attend. ary in their nature, and we believe ? n hn,To '
j j
Georgia.
Music in School Curriculums Mrs,
Prudence S. Dresser, Gallatin.
Develops the Community Miss Car.
rie Gore, Gainesboro. .
The Mental Man Dependent Upon
Salem July 29, on farm of D. C. , that hucIi meritorious change as are
KYlrtow nfo.hr tha jiamn ma a liMAMil
Whiteaker at one o'clock. Corn ana proposed have been se zed upon to ,th . h' -... nf th " qtat rwniit
pig club boys will please attend. divert attention from obnoxious and Seid Consul Judrt J H D 8tevn n
Fairview-Aug. 2, Wednesday, on unpopular chants desired by private 5?SJUJ- !LD-. SI!I!?5.2
farm of S. D. Webb at one o'clock.
Route 4, Wednesday, Aug. 2, on movement
L"t and t0 lend faVr t0 ,he ladTesson WodTraft to . gooSsized
the Physical Child Dr. Dora WU. arm of R q. Whitson, nine o'clock, i The expense of holding a constltu
der, Monterey,
D-IJ IIlll ThiiJ,ir Alio- 9 nm tlnnol nnnnantlnn Jnllnwol hir onnHiol.1. " U'S '""Uiuau JIllull, w
Affiliation with Government -Miss Ndodi. ho
Anne Evans. Washington, D. C. mun wAwmanM n. Art Hon umii th aironHv nvirhiiprfneH crowa waB n auenaance, ana erery.
crowd of neighbors and friends.
A big Woodman picnic was held at
Canning Clubs and Results Miss
BLAIR HARRISON, Co. Agt. den upon the already overburdened
I taxpayers of Tennessee.
I There is no general demand or pub.
Margaret Mciienzie, uonaooraior ; ALL DAY SINGING
Camn Fireirls-MIss Snow Cross 1 A 'our note singing will be held at c need for a new state constitution.
J?i? Shipley on the fourth Sunday in Aug- Most of the clamor for It emanates
Phiirph nrenniz&HonfC : usL J. T. Fenaergrass Deing ine ieau- "-"'-" " y, X. "
unurcn urganizauons. i ' ei,k i init,t uttomi thereby to escape their eau'table share
aSTSSLMn- -a teKoar old founole books of the burden of taxation imposed up.
Wlggingion, iNasnvnie. . . Ti v. a ti, on thena bv our nrenent. Rtntn rnnntltn
As Keepers ofthe House of the "a amner. Yhev succeed the bur!
, den of the farmer and other taxpayers
FARM AT AUCTION would be proportionately increased.
Next Saturdav. bammine- at 10 o'- we urKe. tne voters or ruinam county
body seemed to have a good time.
BAD BACK TODAY?
nf Tn TTnnaa nf thA ana ainner. 11 IS
Lord Mrs. A. B. Smith. Nashville, old singers will come out.
As Shepherds for the Master1 Mrs.
J. T. Altman, Nashville.
Women as Gleaners Miss Margaret
. i 1
oucnanan, i-HjiBuviiie. x .' ... t , , T7 7, vention
. . rt . PmoI, will Ha daM at alintfnn Tnlfl V rll L lull
Tne unuron as a social eniei -w.. , " , t tt hoi)
Mrs. Robinson, NashvlUe. Is one of the best creek bottom farms
Young People In the Church Mrs. In the county. Crops go with the g
D. A. McKnlght. Lebanon. tarn. Jhere will be music by a band . B.
What one Woman Can do for the and other entertainment Attend the JnJ Jt,
Rural Church Mrs. Wirt Jared. sale and have a good time even 'a"
nfri vnv though yoii do not want to buy. If ? Jt- "uaaiesto
The Mother's Sunday School Club, you want a good farm you should be .-JtoA1ftnH
w th i i Tb.4o thara without fall nenry Aigooa
mm. xiaiiiLf7iiijiui u. vhici. ..
Community Societies:
Community Interests Dr. Lillian W.
Johnston, Monteagle.
Backache is usually kidnoy aclifl
and makes you du!l, nervous and tired
Use Doan's Kidney Pills for weRk
kidneys the remedy recommended by
your friends and neighbors.
T. J. Van Hooser, Walnut St., Cooke
ville, says: "My kidneys got dis
ordered and I Buffered so intensely at
clock, the H. J. Farley farm on Cane to cast tfielr ballots Against a Con- T had tQ ,ay off from.worky Tne
kidney secretions parsed too freely
and whenever I caught cold. It settled
on my kidneys. I doctored, but with
no results until a friend recommend
ed Doan's Kidney Pills. I got them
at Neal & Staley'B Drug Store and
they relieved all the ailments.'
Price 60c at H dealers. Don't
olmply ask for a kidney remedy get
Doan's Kidney Pills the samn that
Mr. Van Hooser had. Foster Milburn
Co., Prop., Buffalo, NY.
FOR RENT
A beautiful 11 room dwelling with
GraiVM Nora "mZ? SST1
S. A. Morgan
D. H. Morgan
Tbie July 27 1S1
J. B. S. Martin
Thos. Finley
A. Algood
J. F. Dyer
A. J. Dtidney
Z. L. Shipley
O. E. Cameron
W. E. Ragland
H. T. Gragg
BUILDING ROAD8
For the benefit of the people who
want good roads without bonds it
affords us pleasure to tell you what
BUFFALO VALLEY, ROUTE i
Miss Edith Maddux has returned to
the third and second districts of Over, 'ber home In Gentry after visiting her
vn ii iruiiLB uu a yicuT dli w
WhGooa Roads would Mean to! J- W. RICHARDSON, Agent,
this District Mrs. Luke Anderson ( LIVINGSTON
Gainesboro. nr. h.ni Into nr rain In thla tnn ennntv am rinino- A four uranba uncle. Jim DittV of this TllaPB
The Needs of the Rural Community n of the country. . ago a few enterprising men of HI1- Misses Christine Sadler and Wllma
-Mrs. Walter Jones, Sliver Point. chancery Court is in session this ham got together to discuss the road Medley are visiting (relatives near
Our Duty to Our Capitol Mrs. B. w. week Seem8 like more jand lawsuits problem, the first thing they did be- Chestnut Mound.
Foster, Nashville. . ' than anvthing. tag to organize by electing W. C. Mrs- Harriet Smith ani boys spent
Cooperation in the State Fair Mrs. ( L L ead hag seven Doardorg haul Murphy chairman and J. R. Carmack .Wednesday night with her daughter,
Robert W. Nichol, Nashville. m for j D Webb tp the Livingsta- , secretary. A committee was then ap. Mrs- B1 Horton.
The Old Time Church Society and HadIng Co . pointed to go and view out the road! Mrs, Dolph Sullens and children
its Growth Mrs. A, H. Roberts, i Cnlcken Bea80n has been on for, to be worked first, which was the!nave returned from visiting Mrs. Sul-
iavragBiou. n.v'wme (time. More chickens bougi.t road leading from Hilham to Spring ens- parents at uoosevine.
The Evolution of the Social JD and 80ld tnla Beason than ever before Creek toward Cookeville, the county Born to Mr. and Mrs. Boss Brtaley,
Mrs. C. E. Snodgrass, crossvuie. Wg naye thrfie protjnce houser. here line between Overton and Putnam ,a boy.
' Pour Prendre Congo Mrs. D. L. j jj0fleld, S B-Howard and Dov I counties. I Fred Medley of Silver Point ls Tlslt.
Lansden, Cookeyiue. Waller. I They then advertised a day to meet ,tag Ray and Norman Sullens. -
The meetings Will be he la in tne, . i .,. hn. at "v. rfnrl'. tlthi .-j i ,v. Ttorn tn Mr nn1 Mm TTnlsv ITIolH.
- - Ul-iwuillliwi, twin, W UIQUI- I " , . K.l 11IItI CT X UK i It I U WOBI1CU UUl IUUI W. mv VI un.VJlU O luu O.UU ' - j
Special Chancellor Foster V. Brown ods and Dlans for each individual brnk 'I Auditorium of tbe , city scnooi ouuaing. R & N R Wednesday people of the second district to meet a boy.
In ChatUnooea. Lnn.C. 1 -.ki- . .The public is coraiauy nvxea. ninir them there. Thev met two or three Dqlph Sullens got his arm broken
Chattanooga, Nashville,' Memphis territory and for Joint co-operation of i mic I MlsB A1,ce Teeples has returned hundred people at that place on Satur.'this week at Enigma, by a mule and
and Knoxvllle were largely rere- V SSTZ Health reasops look well of her two brothers at dayjuly. L B111
ented at the International notary promoting more profitable farming in considering the abundance of rain and( Roge McCormlck vl8lted Llllla ford's Mill to Spring Creek. The H1L a boy.
Convention held In Cincinnati. Chat- this district. little cultivation. Gentry Thursday evening. ham or third district people took up I Mr. and Mrs. C H Clark visited
tanooga sent a delegation of 75 with Gen. Z. Newton Eetes, who has been I Lone Oak Is convicted and serene- Mlllard Teeples and wife of Harri- the road from Crawford's Mill to HlI-.Mrs. Bettie Watts, Sunday.
a certified check for $50,000 as a bid on trial in the court of impeachment, ? the electric chair. i D t nw man are viBlUng home folks. ' ham, dividing this part of the road I John White is tearing down his old
for the 1918 convention. It is expected declared, while a witness in his own a?Lk"1 Xtrf T for .in and ac- The wrIter would 1,ke to m7' BmaU tato four Bections a suitable man nouse. wnich is to ne repiacea oy
that they will land it. Atlanta was behalf,
r chosen for the meeting of 1917. utes ahead
The Bristol Board of Trade has ten minutes
mailed out several hundred postcards I all his
to absent citizens and former residents I entire
of Sullivan County, appealing to them the University of Virginia up to the
to come back to their native homes present date. Every new endorser he
during the general home-coming secured "to ride on his paper," he
month in September, which will be termed as "a new fountain of hope,"
generally observed throughout East and with his "periscope trained for
that he was "running five min- lrnChW. Several of them have ? In am,couni,y-. - JSSS.,.!. -!?-C "S .i "n' Anni'.
of an overdraft check and crossed the chilly waters of death and , r.. ram f nakiov .L.m. i 'nrt reittve in Jackson counts last
. . . . , - - T 11,. v. vrciiti J auu .ui;.j .unit vaxc miuoi djoiuumuu ivou tv k a.- , - .
behind a note" practically gone to Klory, and to the Lord, under Q ftT1(1 r-ooke- ino- i vnnnr f Th TTtino. nni week.
life. Thus he characterized his, the preaching of the late T. J. Clouse . week. twill take up Just as soon as they get Mrs. J. J. Sullens is preparing to
life from the time he finished and other ministers, i guess i u Tni TTmniA la havinir nnmn lumber thrnnph with thla mart tha mnA 1ah.1 I Visit I16r daughter. MftTXuft Mealy of
preached 500 sermons mere. wnw dr(,BBed. to comDlete his dwelling near ing toward Livingston. Celina and .Silver Point,
it goes lWeaves us ouiaoora, tnun-n Gainesboro. going to the county line
. rl .l. ...ik Itna
and sunaay scnooi. j. Duncan, the restaurant man, , was of Jackson, and Clay counties and to
lomeiuim A."" f , v.TiTi made happy with a big boy, last week. Flatt Creek toward Livingston. They
where under the care or the. Lora. i rfi ( .n .mii. . ih.
A veto r icuimgo go au oiuttco m wa taiui uicau wuouutdd tuo uivi
S. V. M.
Tennessee.
Mrs. A. Llchlyter, of Knoxville, was llfe- He stated that at one time he
burned to death at her home in Dand- owed $15,000, but at the present it was
ridge, Jefferson County. She had aris- on,y between $5,000 and $6,000.
en early and had evidently gone to slx thousand five hundred kilowatts
an outbuilding on the premises with of electrical energy has been added
a lighted lamp in her hand. Mr. Llch- o the Tennessee Power Co.'s motive
new endorsers" he went through his ( The sorrows of many will follow you
love you for the good you have done". "
im.. n mini HU follow VOU. uuf
FARMER'8 RALLY : .
The Farmer's Union will have an
all day rally at Rocky Point, in the
chants, doctors, lawyers and every 5th District of Putnam county, the
. J 1.X 1 .11 tklMM
TnAWraJ7.B.IhMiv a" like you the Herald would be a
I have not been able to preacn any nan-r
'f'TvtomeSw f 'ouce the Herald will advance
It soon. I stayed a ,t homt .las t Sun- w$ BUbscribe
day until noon whUe the rest of toe we want the
822LrrSf& tPhe.rCre?umatI & cheap. It is worth the money.
w , . i aim io bciiu ru lur jeai ui lwu.
ItUi- tiua ahmit Rnn n'inir nn i ana liiuminaunsr canacitv avBiiahia tn ad tne tiome or Jen ueniry, wuera ,. , v.... - ii
.jw. .vw v. vivi uui, - - w. ij-i lilt) wnmr wuuiu line iu iwe im.
finding his wife, made a search for Chattanogoa, Knoxvllle. Nashville and 'I met .sister and cousin Mary awaras tef tQ the Herald from E E Roberts
her, finding her body charred and other, points reached by its transmis-
burned to a crisp. - ion lines, the Tennessee Power Co.'s
' The American Peace League has an- new steam plant, the largest one in
. nounced that two of the six prizes the state, not only ls for use when
offered for essays by the league were water runs lower in the Ocoee River
won by pupils in the Tennessee Nor- during the middle of the summer, but
nal Schools, while the first honorable wl" be used to strengthen the general
mention also went to a student of I system. Within a few months, prob-
one of the Normals. Miss Margaret ably late In the fall, the new hydro
Moore won the second prize and Miss electric plant at Caney Creek will be
Gladys Drew Burleson the the third completed, giving the Tennessee
prize. Both are students of the East Power Co. a maximum capacity of
Tennessee Normal at Johnson City. approximately 110,000 horsepower.
Come on D. A. Rawley, If they were j body else closed business, put on their
overalls, took their plows, picks, shov.
els, etc., and fell into line.
If you want any further information
go over to Hilham and those people
will take pleasure In giving you the
details of their system, which is very
complete. A WELL WISHER.
DEMOCRATIC COMMITTEE
' The Democratic Executive Commit
tee of Putnam county ls hereby called
to meet in the courthouse at Cooke-
Har father and my mother. John Gri- l"l"l"e
mes and Rebecca Judd. Elbert ' McCormickr8 little boy got
and sister. Judee Sam Edwards ana ..... t - . -.i j
famUy. Hartford Jj
ren and several others soon arrtvea. . &n &rm broken the same day. at one o'clock p. m. for the purpose
we enjoyea smpng ior a Burr soec bought. Will Chattwell's ,of fixing a time and manner of nomi
iinu it wicij u"u j " farm rmtt nAv last week
May 'the Lord bless the editor and ZS?mn m, here
Meraia renueni. vuuio ' tnnlp-ht Z B GENTRY
letters to the paper. Let your old. "
brother hear from you.
REV. M. JUDD.
LOT8 FOR SALE
I Several nice vacant lots well located.
Also some houses and lots in different
Its tee bsbv that lives that counts parts of the city. See me before you
able, curable? buy. Office in Bryant Building, East
Tuberculosa is contagious, prevent side. J. W. RICHARDSON, Agent.
nating a Democratic candidate for
Representative in the General Assem.
bly, and the transaction of such other
business as may legally come before
said committee.
This July 26, 191. - "
C. H. RICKMAN, Chm.,
JOHN H. CORNWELL, Bee.,
Democratic Executive Com.
inlttee.
First Saturday In August, beginning
at 10 o clock, a. m. Tbe public ls In
vited. " '
Welcome address, Charley Randolph
Response. Henry J. Lee.
How to Make an Ideal Community
Jesse Gilliam.
The Benefit of Cooperation In Farm
Demonstration Work Blair Harrison.
The Education of Our Children ,
H. D. McCulley.
Community Development D. C.
Whiteaker.
The Union as an Educational Or
ganization J. N. King.
The Benefit of Cooperation Between
Farmers J. O. Armes.
What tha Farmers Union is Doing
B. C. Huddleston.
Some Needed Legislation For the
Farmers and How to Obtain It H.
R. Shlplev. -
These discussions will be limited to
30 minutes each.
H. D. MeCTTLLEY, Pres.,
B. C. HUDDLESTON, Sec
rr
