HE BARRE DAILY TIME
VLO. XX NO. 113.
UAUHK. VKUMOXT; THURSDAY, JULY' 27. 1016.
PWCK, OXK CKXT.
rm
A
t
r-4
ARE PRESSING
THE ADVANTAGE
British Artillery Is Active at
Various Points on Som
me Front
AND HAND-TO-HAND
BATTLES FREQUENT
Germans Are Using Many
Gas and Tear Shells to
Check Advance
i London, July 27 "Throughout thn
Iiight our artillery had been active and
j we continued to press the enemy witu
; hand to hand encounters at various
i points," saj's the official British state-
mcnt. It goes on to nay that the enemy
I is using a large number of pas and tear
I shells in the battle arena. Elsewhere on
.' the British front there was no incident
; of importance in the last forty-eight
I hours.
tAUSTRIANS ADMIT
THEIR RETREAT
NORTH OF BRODY
i Array Headquarters Tells of Withdrawal
Before Superior Russian Pressure
in Northeastern Galicia.
Berlin, July 27. The Austrian with
I drawal before superior Russian pressure
north of Brody in northeastern ftnlieia
was announced to-day by the Hungarian
army headquarters.
Unco Uiu (Jcrmau attached to the re
tention nf I'or.ieies by quoting from
German divisional order issued in Con
talmaisou on duly 11, follows:
"Furthermore, "the conversion of vil
luges into trong point 1" 'f the great
est importune. .Such village are ro
ziercs, Contaliiiaison, the two Bizantim
anil litigueval."
Secretary Lloyd George point ,out
that with' the capture of l'ozicres the
last of these village Ims fallen into the
allies lunds. He further point out that
yesterday' German claim of the repulse
of an attack on 1 roue wood must be
clerical error, a Troncs wood ha been
in British possession since July 14.
The opinion of the military critic In
London is that no position so strong a
the one the British are now success
fully attacking will be found Iwtween
Pozicres and Bapnuiue, otherwise, they
argue, the (ierman would not liave
risked bringing troop and gum from
the Verdun sector to defend Toziere and
it i inferred from indication in the of
ficial despatches that the British are al
ready beginning to establish themselves
on both side of the road from Pozieres
to Bapaume.
SCIENCE ROBS DENTAL
CHAIRS OF TERRORS
STILL SWINGS
AT HER PIER
Although Deutschland Has
Secured Her Clearance
Tapers
NO ACTIVITY TO-DAY
TO PRESAGE LEAVING
German Consul Declares
Boat Will Not Leave
For a. Week
Baltimore, Md., July 27. If Captain
BELIEVE INJURIES
IUE TO A HORSE
Officials Think Roy Wells Was Kickel
in the Head Young Mao Died Vei
, terday at Hospital in St,
Johnsbury.
Sr. Johnsburr, July 27. An autopsy
performed yesterday over the body of
I, .I' ll- ...I. -. I . 1 . . J A ll.T Li
iwy en, wnu auiiimca 10 in igm
lonk hospital from Oilcan Tuesday
night and who died yesterday inorni'ig
showed that he died of a blood clot in
the pulmonary artery. Wull was loui.d
Tuesday in hi wagon between Orleans
ami Irasburg. He wa unconsciou and
an examination disclosed a fractured
skull. At first foul play was feared, but
at the autopsy it developed that tie In
jury might have been caused by the kick
of a horse, and a thn animal he dro.e
wa known to be vicious, this theory has
been generally accepted. The autopsy
wa conducted bv lr. 11. t. Mone and
Ir. C. F. Whitney of the state labora
tory of hygiene, assisted by Ihr. J. M.
Allen. State's Attorney Aaron Grout of
Newport attended, and while he i satis
tied with the doctor's findings, he will
And It Has Also Deprived the Profes
sional Humorist of a Good Piece of
Stock in Trade, Says Dr.
Richard H. Riethmuller.
GERMANY CLAIMS
ALL ATTACKS FAILED
The British Turned Back Near Pozieres;
the French in the Verdun Region
and Russians on Schitshara
River.
Berlin, July 27. British hand grenade
attacks against German lines west of
Pozieres were repulsed yesterday, says
the German armv headquarters.
In the Verdun region several strong
. French attacks were carried out but
were repulsed. The fighting continues at
some points.
The Russians made a futile storming
f attack against the German position on
the Schitshara river.
KAISER DOWNCAST
OVER HIS FAILURE
TO WIN THE WAR
Premier Morri3 of Newfoundland, Who
Has Just Returned from the Somme
Front, Declares Emperor and His
Staff Realize Germany Has
Lost the Game.
Paris, July 27. Sir Edward Morris,
Newfoundland premier, in an interview
upon his return from the feomme front,
declared that German prisoners said:
: "The emperor and his staff realize that
; Germany has lost the game. The war
i is virtually finished."
FOUR NORWEGIAN
SHIPS ARE SUNK
: German Submarines Have Started e
' lentless War Against Timber-laden
Vessels in the North Sea.
London, July 27. German submarines
have started, a relentless war agamst
timber-laden vessels in the North sea.
Four Norwegian ships were reported
sunk to-day.
6,000 MORE TEUTONS
RUSSIA'S PRISONERS
In Battle Tuesday the Russian Forces On
Their Western Front Won Victory
In the Caucasus the Pursuit
of the Turks is Being
Kept Up.
Petrograd, July 27. In the battle
Tuesday on the Russian western front
6,000 Teutons were taken prisoners,
says the official statement by the Rus
sian war ollke.
The Russian forces operating in the:
Caucasus are continuing their pursuit of
the retreating Turks. The statement
says that in the Turkish fortress of Kr
ringan the. Russians took a depot of war
materials.
Louisville, Ky., Julv 27. How science
has robbed the dental chair of it ter
rors and thn professional humorist of a
good piece of stock in trade, was de
scribed to-day by Dr. Richard Rieth
muller, of Philadelphia, and member of
the faculty of the 1'niversitv of l'enn-
vlvania, in his address "Inter-Oral
Methods of Local Anaesthesia," before
th Interstate Association of Anesthet
ists holding session in connection with
the annual convention of the National
Dental association. The method de
scribed by Dr. Riethmuller is known as
"Conductive Anaesthesia," and he rec
ommended it as being vastly superior to
older methods.
"Cnder this method of anaesthesia
or nerve deadening," said Dr. Riethmul
ler, "a single injection of a drug into,
for instance, the lower jaw will render
insensible to pain the hard as well as
the soft tissues, including the bone, and
eight teeth on one side of the mouth.
and it would be possible to remove all
the teeth or to remove part of the jaw
bone itself without any pain whatso
ever and with the patient fully conscious
all the time."
Dr. Riethmuller said that advantages
claimed for this method are: "absolute
painlessness; full consciousness of the
patient, and absence of hemorrhages dur
ing operation, even if it be of a surgi
cal nature."
"The drug used in this method of pain
less dentistry is novocain," he continued
"It is about one-tenth as tojeic as co
caine, is non-habit forming and can bo
easily sterilized by boiling. It produces
complete insensibility of tie hard and
soft tissues of the mouth without any
detrimental after-effects whatever.
"A highly important feature of this
method, is that, by its use, it is possi
ble to obtain complete asepsis or ab
sence of pus forming bacteria of the
anaesthetic solution itself, and of the in
struments used, and of the part where
the injection is made. The injection is
made at certain selected spots, and the
patient feel no pain whatever from the
injection, and one injection produces
complete lack of sensation in several
teeth at once."
Dr. Riethmuller told his audience that
it was the aim of this method to elim
inate pain and shock from all dental
operations, no matter how apparently
trifling in kind or degree, and to thus rob
dental operations of the fear of them
which is entertained by a great many
people. The duration of the anaesthesia
is sufficiently long to allow lirst healing
processes to take place without pain, and,
consequently, there is no distressing ait-
er-effect.
Bv means of lantern slides and motion
pictures made esjiecially for the lecture,
Dr. Riethmuller explained the intimate
knowledge and appreciation of pharmac
ology and the physiological action of
novoeain-suprarenin, asepsis, histology
and anatomy that are required in this
method of anaesthesia and showed the
technique of injections for such oral-
sureical operations as extractions, re
section of root ends, and curetment of
diseased bone.
...... ..i... : ti- it-
Paul Koenig of the Deutschland plai to "1""'0 " inl'K"l,"" r.. u
v.un ,il.1 ii nil ili'(i mirl.t itrnt lu.rn
i . 1 ! . n-i l i j .
ii nu inrcc sisiers. i up oouy wa taken
start to-tuv on In return voyage,
was nothing going on at the pier that
wa any more indicative of his depart
ure than ha been the ease for the last
few days, (ierman consul Carl A. l.eud
eritz said the Deutschland will not leave
for a week.
The Deutschland was cleared yester
day by her commander. Captain Kocnig,
for "Hremen or any other port in tier
many." After the usual clearance for
malities, the commander of the subma
rine requested that his manifest, which
he had filed, be. withheld from publica
tion "for a reasonable time." Collector
of the Port Ryan communicated with the
treasury department at Washington and
then informed Captain Koenig that hi
request be granted
to Orleans last night for burial.
BOY SOON DIED.
cargo was described officially as being
composed of general merchandise.
William Siegriest Was in Automobile
Which Was Struck by Train.
Burlington, July 27. William Siegri
est, the 15-year-old son of George J.
Siegriest of Essex Junction, who wa in
jured yesterday forenoon when a train
ran into the Essex steam laundry deliv
ery automobile on a crossing, died at the
Mary Fletcher hospital at 1:20 j ester lay
afternoon. One arm wag almost wrcncl ed
off in the accident, there were a dozer
Consequently, the, other fractures and internal injuries
CAR MOVING
MAKES RIOTS
And All New York May Be
Tied Up in Big
Strike
DISORDERS BREAK
OUT IN THE BRONX
In Yonkers, Mount Vernon
and New Rochelle No
Cars Were Moved
U. S. WARSHIPS
ARE PATROLLING
FOR NEUTRALITY
Are Watching Allied Ships, Which Are
in Turn Watching for Arrival of the
Bremen or the Departure of
The Deutschland.
Norfolk, July 27 The armored
cruiser North Carolina and three de
stroyers, near the allied warships pat
rol, worked slowly up and down close to
an English cruiser. A Beaufort, N. C.
dispatch says that two allied warships
are patrolling ofT Beaufort Inlet follow
ing reports that the Bremen is beaded
this way.
ANXIOUS TO GET MARRIED
GERMAN AIRSHIP
ATTACKEt) BASE
FOR SUBMARINES
Bombarded Russian and British Head
quarters and,. Although Shelled,
Returned Undamaged.
Berlin, July 27. A German naval air
bip on July 25 attacked the main bae
for the Russian and British submarines
t Mariehsran, the (ierman admiralty an
nounces. The airship bombarded the port
successfully and although she was shelled
the returned undamaged.
WANTED TO KEEP POZIERES
CASEMENT CASE
MAY BE RE-OPENED
Five Judges Who Heard the Appeal Will
Sit To-morrow to Hear a Possible
Application in Behalf of the
Convicted Man.
London, July 27. Justice Darling an
nounced to-day that the five judges who
heard the appeal of Roger ( asement
against the sentence of death on the
charge of high treason would sit to-morrow
to hear a possible application on be
half of the. convicted man. The natuie
of the application was net disclosed.
A news agency says that a public ex
ecution of Casement i improbable. Some
authorities declare that executions for
crimes except murder must lie public.
Called Knot-Tying Justice Out Ahead of
Time.
Brattlcboro, July 27. Justice Carl S.
Hopkins Mas called out of bed by tele
phone at 5 o'clock yesterday bv Louis
11. Dearborn of Nashua, N. H., who said
he and Miss Myrtle M. Jellev of the
same city had been waiting in the Brooks
house parlor since 2 o'clock and very
much wished ho would come to his office
and issue them a marriage license. He
apologized for making such an early call
but had waited what seemed to be a long
time. : 'iJH
Justice Hopkins consented to advance
his opening time two hours, so at 7
o'clock the couple met him at his office
and were given a license after the young
man had shown the justice a written
permit from his mother, he being only 18
years old. He gave his occupation as a
chemist. The couplo were married at
one by Rev. Richard H. Clapp. They
arrived here on a night tram and aeked
Police Chief George Wilson where to go,
and he advised them to wait in the hotel
parlor until daylight.
which, with the loss of blood, caused hi
death. The boy wa a member of the
Methodist church at Essex Junction. His
father left only last Friday for the Mf x
ican front and William, the oldest son,
wa to be the man of the family d'.r
ing his father's absence. There are eiglt
other children.
Fred Rushford. who was driving the
auto, had his collar bone and left leg
broken and is in a serious condition at
the hospital. The delivery car was re
duced to scrap iron, the road bed of the
railroad was torn for a distance of POO
feet and 15 baskets of clothes were
strewn along the tracks.
INTOXICATED MOTORISTS FINED
They Were in Enosburg Falls, But They
Didn't Know It.
Enosburg Falls, July 27 Deputy Sher
iff A. J. Croft was notified Sunday aft
ernoon that an automobile party in an
apparent stage of intoxication was on
the streets of the village. They we.e
arrested on Church street, their machine
being on the sidewalk. Not one ot the
party knew where he was, it is saw,
some thinking they were in St. Albans
and other insisting they were in '-ana
da. They were taken to their homes in
Sheldon Springs and held to appear in
court Monday evening. AH pleaded guil
;y to intoxication. John Swanson, the
chauffeur, was fined $10 and cost of
$8.45 for operating a car while intoxi
cated. G. W. Botterell, R. E. Bramhall
and John Silvestro were each fined 5 and
cost, amounting in each case to $11.45
which they arranged to pay.
New York, July 27. Upon the arrival
of President Mahon of the street railway
employes' union to-day, motormen and
conductors of all street railways in the
city may be asked to join the trolley
trike which has tied up the linos in
the Bronx and Weat'heater county. At
tempt to resume operations in Bronx
have resulted in disorders. iNo car
moved to-day in Yonkers, Mount Vernon
or New Rochelle.
The strike was extended to the sur
face lines of the Bronx yesterday and
11 surface cars in that borough north of
20th street were ordered to the barns
t 8 o'clock last night by Edward A. Ma-
er, general man lger of the I'nion Rail
road company, which operate the lines
of the Bronx. Raibrul officials ex
plained that this was due to protect the
men who refused to obey the strike or
der, as numerous threats of violence had
been received.
I'nion leader claimed that more than
l.fK'O urmon in the Bronx responded to
the strik" order, while Mr. Maher de
clared net more than 5W had walked
out. During the evening rush hour,
however, it was said that only one line
in the Bronx was operating car any
where near schedule.
One hundred strikers armed with
bricks last night attacked a car in the
Bronx, smashing nearly every window
and demolishing part of the' woodwork.
There were no passenger on the car. i
The motorman and conductor took shel
ter inside and were not injured. Police
reserves dispersed the rioters, arresting
three of them.
OTIS WILLIAMS
CONVICTED IN
SECOND DEG .EE
GOT ACQUAINTED
WITH CHELSEA PEOPLE
CENTRAL VERMONT
MAY OPERATE
ITS STEAMERS
BANK OFFICIALS
ARE ACCUSED
OF BIG FRAUD
Edward Hatch and Thomas Byrnes Are
Sought at Orange, N. J., Charged with
Conspiracy to Defraud Bank of
$30,000.
Newark, N. J., July 27. Warrants for
the arrest of Edward Hatch, vice-president
of the Mutual Trust company of
Orange, which was closed Monday by the
banking commission, and for Ihomas
Byrnes, secretary-treasurer, have been
issued. Thev are charged with conspir
acy to defraud the bank of $300,000.,
WILSON URGES ADOPTION
By the House of the Senate Naval Bill-
Calls in Democrats.
Washington, July 27. The president
to-day urged the ranking Democratic
members of the House to have the House
adopt the Senate naval bill. Tadgett is
understood to have tola the president
that there would be opposition to the
enlarged building programme.
NEW INSURANCE C0MPAN I
Green Mountain Mutual Firs Insurance
Co. Gets Certificate.
Insurance Commissioner Guy W. Bail
ey and Walter F. Scott have issued a
certificate to the Green Mountain Mutual
Fire Insurance company, following a
hearing held at .MontpeJier on July 3.
The certificate is granted under act 158
of the acts of Vermont, 1915. The guar
antee fund must be not less than CW00
and not more than $200,000. The shares
are $50 each.
"The signers of the papers are Robert
W. Simonds of St. Johnsbury, Benjamin
Gates of Montpelier, Stanley C. llson
of Chelsea, George L. Blanchsrd, J. G.
Brown, H. J. M. Jone, Jame M. Bout
well and F. E. Lowe of Montpelier, H. E.
Parker of Bradford, J. W. Fowler of
Manchester Depot, F. A. Field of Rut
land, H. S. Howard of Burlington, F. C.
Williams of Newport, B. J. Mulcahr of
Ilardwick, S. A. Daniels and II. G. Barber
of Brattleboro.
Not Only Between New York and New
London, But It May Also Install
Similar Service Between New
York and Providence.
Washington July 27. Authority has
been given the Central Vermont railway
by the interstate commerce commission
to continue the operation of steanieri
between New York and New London aud
to Install similar service between New
York and Providence.
R. F. D. CARRIERS MEET
2,445,664 MOTOR VEHICLES
EXPELLED FROM HOUSE
Laurence Ginnell Was Accused of Dis
orderly Conduct.
London, July 27. I-aurence Ginnell, a
Nationalist member of Parliament, has
been euspendt-d from the sitting of the
House of Common, according to the Ex
change Telegraph company, for disorder
ly conduct. He at first refused to leave.
The sitting was suspended. Later he
withdrew when attendants approached,
and the sitting was resumed.
AN EASY WINNER
Germans Had Been Told to Fight Hard
For It.
London. July 27. The secretary for
war. David Lloyd George, in a published
t-tite-jent last nifcht, shows tie impcr-
Mabel Trask, Driven By Cox, Won $10,-
000 Stake at Detroit.
Detroit, Julv 27. Mabel Trask, owned
and driven by Walter Cox of Dover. N.
H, had little trouble in winning the
historic Merchants and Manufacturer'
.in.oX ,take here yesterday atirmnon.
None f.f the other contestants e.vnie.1 to
Were Registered in the United States
Last Year.
Washington, July 27. Motor vehicles
registered in the I'nited States for last
year numbered 2.445,6fi4 says the public
road ofliee. They averaged one for
every 44 persons.
U. S. NOTE CABLED
Protest to England Over Blacklisting of
American Firms.
Washington, Julv 27. The note to
England objecting to the blacklisting of
American business firms as an invasion
of neutral rights has been cabled to Lon
don by the state department.
MOUNTAIN P. 0. ROBBED.
Burglars Got Several Hundred Dollars at
Twin Mountain, N. H.
Twin Mountain, N. H., July 27. The
postolTice at Twin Mountain was broken
open at an early hour yesterday morning
and the safe blown open with nitro
glycerin. Postmaster J. P. Wright has
not yet been able to determine his ex
act loss in currency, stamps and regis
tered mail, but it is said that it will
reach a total of several hundred dol
lars. It is thought the thieves traveled in
an automobile as several claim to have
heard a car between 1 and 2 a. m. and
they are thought to be the same gang
who broken into the iranconia postoflicc
a few weeks ago.
Last vear thev wOrked the postoffices
at Dalton and North Stratford and the
preceding season in Jefferson. No clew
has yet been found to aid the authori
ties in tracing the gang.
DOZEN CARS DERAILED.
CAUTION IS URGED
Against Putting Faith in Preparations
for Infantile Paralysis.
Washington, Julv 27. Warning Las
been issued to the public by the arricul-
tural department to look with extreme
suspicion upon any preparation put n
be able to cite the New Hjimj-sLire man 'the market a being effe-tive for treat
anvthici like an argua.ect, Jiitt of infantde paralysis.
But No One Was Hurt in Freight Wreck
Near East Putney.
Brattleboro, July 27. Twelve cars ot
a northbound Central Vermont freight
train that left Brattleboro about 6:3i)
last night, were derailed a mile and a
half north of East I'utney, completely
tieing up traffic. The southbound pas
senger due here at 8:20 o'clock wa sent
around through Keene, N. H. No one
was injured.
WHEAT PRICES JUMP
12th Annual State Convention Meeting
in Vergennes.
Vergennes, July 27. The Vermont
Rural Carriers' association is holding its
12th annual state convention in this
city. The meetings are being held as
the chapel of the Vermont industrial
school, the first session opening yester
day afternoon at 1:30 o'clock.
Mayor C. E. btebbins welcomed the
visitor to the city, E.. N. Knapp, vice-
president of the association, of Irasburg
responding, following a. piano solo by
Mr. W. S. Boardman, the state presi
dent, E. H. Sargent of East Thetford was
introduced by County President O. Jl
Plain of Bristol, and gave an interesting
address. At the close committees were
appointed. After music, by Miss Hazel
Huffmire of Rutland, James E. Burke,
postmaster at Burlington, addressed the
audience. ' .
Delegates to the national convention,
E. H. Sargent, F. H. Huffmire and B. I..
Osgood gave interesting accounts of the
convention, the city in which it was held,
and the trip.
Supt. J. N. Barss of the ermont in
dustrial school was the last speaker, aft-
... 1-: . 1. ,k. -. i : : . . i . .
ci vwiicu mr ut'irtiu-s hiiu milieu uesis j
were Mr. Barss guests at a luncheon at !
the school. The party left about 5 i
o'clock for a boat ride down Otter creek
and on Lake Champlain, returning hern
shortly before the evening session at
7:30.
The state industrial school band gave
a concert outside the chapel at 7:30,
after which the following program wiu
caried out in the chapel: Address, Judge
Frank L. Fish of Vergennes; recitatiou,
'Bobby Shafto," Miss Mary E. Cren
terj address, "Good Enough for the Traf
fic Roads," Horatio S. Earle, Detroit,
Mich.; character sketch, George C. Ross;
reading, Miss Hazel Huffmire.
Barre Board of Trade and Ladies Mo
tored to the Pretty Orange County
Town and Spent a Most En
joyable Evening.
The second of the "bitter acquaint
ance" tour organized by the Barre Board
of Trade wa held last evening, Chelsea
being the destination of thirty or more
ar carrying nearly 175 people. The
mutual pleasure of the Marshfield trip
wa repeated, ami those who participated
from Barre are looking forward eagerly
to the third of the tour.
The Barre party left the city about
6 o'clock and motored leisurely up the
heights of Washington and thence dovn
'the valley to the attractive little vil
lage of Chelsea, vhcre marked hospitali
ty was awaiting them. The cars were
parked on one of the village squares ai.d
the visitor divested themselves of as
much dust as possible before going to
the town hall where supper wa served
under the direction of the Ten Pin club,
an organization of Chelsea women, num
bering twenty member. The town hall
was crowded with people, the Cbelrca
people joining in and making a grand
total of about 300 jolly diner.
The hostesses had prepared a very ap
petizing menu, which was much appre
ciated bv all. Before the service of the
meal began Carroll's orchestra of Bane I
played and they kept it up at frequent
interval during the supper, the sup
per was preceded bv prayer by Rev. Rob
ert Haseltine, pastor of the Methodist
church at Chelsea.
At the close of the supper Attorney
Stanley C. Wilson rapped for order and
spoke for a few minutes in behalf of
the Ten Pin club, stating their appre
ciation of the opportunity to eiitert?ii
the people frsm Barre and hoping that
the two communities would both benefit
bv the visit. He was followed by II. G.
Woodruff, who reciprocated the cordial
spirit of the previous speaker and then
announced that a scries of stereopticon
views of Barre and of Barre granite in
dustry would be thrown on the screen.
The screen had been placed on the Na
tional bank building and the pictures
were displayed very clearly. In the
meantime the Barre Citizens' band gave
a concert program and skyrockets sent
their lurid glare against the sky.
It was about 10:30 o'clock when the
Barre machines were turned in the di
rection of home and the return run was
made in good thne and under conditions
that were ideal, barring perhaps a ten
dency to dust-raising. The Barre peo
ple expressed their pleasure over
visit in an unmistakable manner.
Topsham n Hand Found
v
Guilt- Jury in Orange
County Court of Complici
ty In the Death of His Em
ployer, Joseph Felch, and
He Hears the Verdict
Quite Calmly
FELCIPS WIDOW YET
TO BE TRIED IN CASE
Felch Was Shot In His Su
gar House On the Night
of April 22, 1916, and
Shortly Afterwards His
Hired Man and Then Mrs.
Felch Were Arrested
Trial of Williams Has
Lasted Ten Days
the
STEPPED ON HOT COALS.
No. Clarendon Infant May Become Crip
pled Because of Burns.
Rutland, July 27. Kenneth, the IS-
month-old son of Mr. and Mrs, Claude
Chelsea, July 27. For his part in the
brutal slaying of Joseph Felch, a Tops
ham farmer, on the night of April 22,
1916, Otis Williams was to-day in Orange
county court found guilty of murder in
the second degree. Williams was em
ployed by Felch as a farmhand. Anoth
er trial growing out of the death of
Felch is to be held a few months later, it
is expected, when the slain man's wife,
Anna Felch, will be brought before the
bar of justice, having been jointly indict
ed with Williams for murder. Counsel
for Wliams will undoubtedly take the
case to supreme court on exceptions,
having indicated such a purpose by tak
ing exceptions to Judge Stanton's charge.
The penalty for second degree murder
is life imprisonment.
When Williams was brought into tho
court room this morning in response to
the summons after word came the jury
was ready to report, he displayed little
trace of anxiety although his countenance
was considerably paler than usual. Other
than that he did not show any indica
tion of the tension that might have been
working in his mind as the jury was
polled. Throughout the trial he had
maintained a somewhat stolid attitude,
although he seemed to follow the testi
mony and the arguments closely. When
the verdict of guilty of murder in tho
Pitts of North Clarendon, was seriously second degree was announced he nppar
burned yesterday when he stepped onto
some hot wood coals, which had been
carelessly thrown into the yard of th
Pitts home. One foot was badly burned
and it is possible the child maj be crip
pled for life.
Mr. Pitts, who runs a milk route in
this cify was in Rutland and Mrs. Pitts,
with the assistance of a young boy, was
moving the kitchen stove from one room
to another. She had first taken the
hot coals and emptied them out onto
the ground in the back yard.
Kenneth was toddling around the yard
and not realizing the danger walked onto
the coals. His cries attracted the at
tention of his mother, who found the
youngster standing on the burning em
bers, not knowing enough to move out of
the danger.
NATIVE OF AUSTRIA.
John Giacamuzzi Died This Morning Aft
er Five Months' Illness.
MRS. C. A. BARTLETTS FUNERAL
Waa Held from Universalist Church, Rev.
J. B. Reardon Officiating.
The funeral of Mrs. Lena B. Bartlett
of Summer treet, wife of Clarence A.
Bartlett, whose death occurred early
Tuesday morning, was held in the I'ni
versalist church at 2 o'clock this after
noon, the pastor, Rev. J. B. Reardon, of
ficiating. Previously a brief prayer serv
ice was held in the mortuary chapel at
. Iia Parrr A- '-w .tj n nntprl air intr A&taX-
. : ii. . ti,. (Fayette T. Culler
llBiiiiirui ill j . fiii.it. m r in. ,
John Giacamuzzi, a Barre granitccut
ter, well known among the Italian peo
ple of this city, passed away at his home,
12 Addison place, this morning at 7
o'clock, death following an illness of
five months. The deceased is survived
by his wife and two children, Anna and
Fioravanti, a daughter and a son. He
also leaves two brothers, Battista Gi:i
cannizzj of Milford, Muss., and a brother
livinar in France; also a sister, Mrs.
Maria Beltrami of Milford, Mass., aiu
three sisters living in Austria.
The deceased was born in Austria 17
years ago and came to America several
i years ago. Trior to his illness he as
employed by manufacturers in rntu
Barre and M'ontpelier. He was a mem
ber of the granitecutters' union.
The funeral will probably be held at
the house Saturday afternoon at 2
o'clock with interment in Hope cemetery
Judge Stanton did
BURIAL HELD IN BARRE.
Funeral of Mrs. Anne Eliza Banister
Was Held Yesterday Afternoon.
The funeral of Mrs. Anne Eliza (Ba
con) Banister, whose body, following her
death in Potsdam, N. Y., July 23. was
broucht to Barre, was held at the home
of ). J. Dodge on Elm street Wednesday j of Willi
afternoon at 2:3J o clock, Key. J. H. '
Reardon. ptor of the I niversalist
church, officiating. The bearers were:
C. C. Varnev, Geor-'e
ently was unmoved.
not impose sentence.
Story of the Crime.
On the night of April 22 Joseph Felch,
a well-to-do farmer, left his home in
Waits River "sometime after the supper
hour and went to the sugarhouse to boil
the season's last run of sap. Before
leaving the house, he announced his pur
pose to return home at midnight. In
the morning of Easter day, the Sunday
following, alarm was felt over the farm
er's non-appearance and Mrs. Felch, her
seven-year-old daughter, Bernice, and
the hired girl, Josephine Tero. set out
for the sugarhouse. There they discov
ered the body of Felch lying in his own
blood, a rifle under the torso. When the
women spread the alarm, the town health
officer was called. Because of the pe
culiar juxtaposition of the body and the
ritle, he scouted the theory of suicide.
and his suspicion of foul play waa shared
when States Attorney rrank S. Wil
liams of Bradford, Dr. W. R. Rowland
of Corinth and others arrived.
- Dr. B. If. Stone, the state pathologist,
and Dr. C. F. Whitney, the state chemist,
arrived from Burlington on the following
Monday and an autopsy was held in the
schoolhonse hall. Three days later
Feleh's remains were buried and whilo
the funeral was in progress. Otis Wil
liams, a 21-year-old farmhand, was ar
rested. Statements said to have been
made by the accused led to the implica
tion of Mrs. Felch and she. too, was tak
en in custody a short time afterward.
The grand jury in session at the county
seat early in June found true bills
against the pair and indictments charg
ing Williams and rs. Felch jointly
with the murder of Felch were returned.
Attorney General H. (i. Barber of Brad
ford assisted State's Attorney Williams
in the investigation and liter in tho
prosecution. Early in the present term
of Oranire county court the state as
signed as counel for the respondent.
William David Conant of Bradford and
Stanley C. Wilson of Chelsea.
The case against Williams was started
before Judjre Zed S. Stinton in the court
room at Chelsea Monday. July H.
noon on the following day the following
jury had been sch-.-tcd: If. H. Titus of
West Fairlee, J. M. Benjamin of Straf
ford. P. V. Flint of Rraiutree. X. .T.
msfown, C. E. Brown of
Tiinbriilce. S. H. Tliaver of Rraintree,
jV. B. Karr of I?rook !!. C. A. Wekster
of Randolph, A. A. Kidder of Newbury,
C. I.. Havw.ird ot w i!J:amto n. Arthur
John
Emslie. Arthur L. Pierre, ! Beckley and Jose ph Taft. Interment j ij,,,,,, f V.rookfirt.l and W. S.'lfcth
! made in the family lot at Elrawood
cemetery.
On Report from Northwest of the Dam
age By Storm.
Chicago. July "heat prices
Frank Cutler and James Little. Mem
bers of the Queen of the Forest circle
and the clerks union, to which organiza
tions the deceased belonged, were largely
reprcented. There was a profit flora
tribute. Interment was made in the;,jward Storrs, Well Known by Dart
family lot in Elmwood cemetery. j mouth SsoaentSf Hjd . Shofk
COLLEGE BOOKSELLER DEAD.
lawav f Washington. Difficulties at-.
tenant upon the -election of a jury were
;!ue principally to prejudice sgiintt cip
j isal ptini-hment or circmnrtantial evi-
j (f'-n.-e.
. The case rjs beard through 10 davs
J of the summer's hottest weather. Sj,-.
Ill'.r (iiwil-'l nir I. .ill. If" III H1IV HIM
Miss Arabella Eugenia Smith, author Hanover, V H July 27 K Iw ar much irterest in the co jt nisnete.
of "If I Should Die To-night" and otier Storrs, for 35 years rroprietor of llfjM- reotle luir.z in town m;t-ide Oigr. e
jumped four and a half rtt.t on the crop poems and prwe. died Monday at Sunta hook-tore r-atromzed by Dartmouth stu- J
iamjge reports from the NorthwtsU Bartjara, CaL, at the age of 71 ytars. c-.iUf dic-i t3-Ur a a reiuit of a thvick. . (Cottinuti ia fourth reje.)
