THE
CLAYTON CITIZEN
VOLUME 12
CLAYTON, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, JULY 27, 1916
NO. 29
TRUST COMPANY WANTS
REMOVED
ELY
RESOLUTIONS
An order was filed in the District
Court for Santa Fe county this morn
ing directing Ralph C. Ely, receiver
of the New Mexico Central Railroad
to show cause on the 14th of August
before the court at Santa Fe why he
should not be removed as receiver of
the said railroad.
Tuberculosis Claims Oklahoma Man
On Friday of last week, J. V. Hyer
of Canton, Oklahoma, passed away af
ter a hard siege of tuberculosis. He
. came to Clayton eleven months ago
and the change benefitted him great
ly for a while. His father and
mother were with him in his last
hours. His brothers came from Can
ton, to attend the funeral. They ar
rived too late to see him while living.
The services were conducted by the
Odd Fellows here as he was a member
of that order and had been for a num
ber of years. He is survived by a
father, mother and two brothers. He
was a young man of sterling quality
and was held in the highest esteem
by all who knew him for his patience
anH resignation to the suffering he
had borne for many weeks past.
CORONER JURY HEAR EVIDENCE
OVER BODY OF HYPES
Cíf thp ITninn rinllnfv Tpttrhpra' A a.
f il i : 4. "
: a. il ri L I ,
ícs ever w cask a. púa uver tiayvuii j i 97th 1Q1fi
i : i. i ci-j. i l i I 1
ciuminuieu ouiuruay anernuun wnen WWph. we th tonchor,. nf TTnim,
. a. nypes, a larmer ox near warn, County, in convention assembled, be.
. m., oiea ai me nope nospuai irom ,evin the t Inatitute to
iraciure 01 me skuu, me resuu 01 of the mogt nrofitahu i th histnrv
having been struck by G. C. (Dewey) of Union County, would hereby ex.
Johnson about midnight Friday night. pres8 our 8entiments regarding the
nt tiic tuiuiici a juijucoi. iictu Sun
day, it developed from testimony of
witnesses that Hypes arrived in town
same:
Therefore, be it resolved:
That to the citizens of Clavton we
Friday night and searched for a owe our sincere and hearty thanks for
place to put his team for the night. their ready wjinngness to sacrifice
Arriving at People's Feed yard he for our comfort and convenience, and
was unable to obtain feed and went we shall ever recall with gratitude
to the Johnson home, evidence tends their kind hospitality. We especial-
to show, to make inquiry as to the jy thank the oBard of Education for
whereabouts of the proprietor of the the use of the Clayton High School
place. It is reprted that Mrs. John- Building, and here with extend our
son and her sister, who were alone thanks to Mr. J. Q. Williams for his
in the house, thought the man had many pleasant and courteous acts as
evil intentions when he called at the janitor.
house. They were frightened and That we deenlv annrpciatp thP
told Mr. Johnson about the matter.
Johnson went in search of Hypes
and found him standing on the cor
ner in front of the general depart-
Goodnight
If Mr. Goodnight of the Snooze de
voted more time to proof reading his
own effusions and less to criticising
The Citizen perhaps Otto-Johnson's
advertisement -writers could be con
vinced that the Snooze is not trying
to make a monkey of them. In Otto
Johnson's ad last week under the sub
title of "Due to Arrive" the follow
ing gem appeared as a result of Mr,
Goodnight attending to everybody's
business but his own: "Early next
week a big shipment of Shirts, Soft
Shirts with and without collars, Dress
and Work Shirts, also a big lot of
Sport Shirts. The question arises,
Will I need a harvester? and will be
well worth your time to come in and
see them."
Case Taken Under Advisement
The Mansker case was taken under
advisement Tuesday by Judge Lieb at
Raton who has promised a decision
not later than this week. Messrs. W
D. Kilburn, O. T. Toombs, Robt. Man
sker, Dewey Johnson, D. W. Snyder,
Palmer, Gill, G. C. Smith, C. L. Col
lins, county advisor to the commis
sioners, Capt. Snyder and Don Salo
me Garcia, county commissioners, and
T. J. Crumley, sheriff, motored over
to Raton the first of the week to at
tend the hearing. Attorneys Spiess,
Catron and Leahy were representing
the defense and Gill, Collins and Rem
ley conducted the persecution.
Texline Boy Suicides
Hal Branstetter,. age 20, a crippled
boy of Texline was found dead on his
bed at the home of his sister, Mrs
Bennett, Wednesday evening. A chlor
oform soaked handerchief was lying
on his face and a glass of the chlor
oform was on a table nearby. Finan
cial troubles were supposed to have
caused him to suicide. He left three
letters, one addressed to a girl friend
. Miss Crayber, one to his mother, the
other to a man living near Texline. It
is not known as yet what the letters
contained. He was buried at Texline
this afternoon.
Still Climbing
courtesies of the press of Union coun
ty, and extend to it our sincere and
hearty thanks.
That we extend our thanks to the
REPUBLICAN PRIMARY. PRE
CINCT NO. 1
YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED,
that a precinct Republican convention
will be held at Clayton on the 12th
day of August, 1916, to elect ten del
egates to represent Union County at
the Republican State Convention, to
CLAYTON SERIES FROM TRINI
DAD IN WONDERFUL WINDUP
Permit us to draw the curtain over
that lamentable exhibition of Monday
when nine innings of more or less in
different playing in most every de
partment of the game gave the game
to Trinidad by a score of 17 to 11.
Carl Eklund,
Precinct Chairman.
be held at Santa Fe, New Mexico, I Before we pull aforesaid curtain al
August 23, 1916. ! low us to remark that evervthiner was
indifferent except the hitting.
The Eagles got a total of 20 hits off
of Clayton's three twirlers. And the
Blues got a mess of them too.
The second game and the decisive
one of the series is more pleasant to
write about and talk about, not be
cause Clayton won it but because it
was the most marvelous exhibition
of pitching ever witnessed in Clayton.
The game was more awe-insbirine
force as the needs of the people call- than interesting. Georee Knaddler.
ed for, until last year the number of , the Clayton giant sent ball after ball
ship in educational matters.
When he became County Superin
tendent there were only twenty-six
school houses and sixty-eight teachers
in Union County. He has built seventy-five
new school houses in the
county, an enviable record; and he
has gradually increased the teaching
ment of the Otto-Johnson Mercantile various committees for the faithful
Co. and efficient, mnnnpr in which thpv
Johnson asked Hypes if he was the have performed their duties: also to
man who had been "to the house those who have assisted in carrying
across the track." Hypes admitted he out the progress of the institute.
had been and Johnson immediately That we are very grateful to the re
struck him, the number of blows vary- tiring officers of the association, who
ing with the different witnesses' ver- have put forth their best efforts and
Sion. puided the association thrmio-h onp of
Frank Garcia, night-watchman, was the most successful years in its his
nearby. - Seeing that Hypes was in- tory. Y. . : .
jured, he decided the proper place for That we thanfl Messrs. Ely, James,
him was the jail and forthwith took Mersfelder, and Gaines for the ad
him there after Mrs. Johnson had dresses thev delivered hefore the in-
identified him as the man who had stitute.
been at the Johnson home, a short Whereas, Prof. W. 0. Hall is a gen
while before. tleman of scholarlv attainmpnts! a
About noon, Saturday, Hypes, hav- splendid school man and one of the
ing been unconscious for several best éducators in the state, well fit
hours it was decided to remove him ted for executive responsibility and
to the hospital. Dr. Bristol made an teaching duties; a man who, through
examination of Hypes about 8:30 Sat- his friendly interest and competent in-
urday morning and decided that Hypes struction, is an inspiration to the
was faking insensibility. The cor- teachers; and
oner's jury returned a verdict that Whereas, he has conducted the 1916
"Hypes came to his death by a blow institute in such an able manner that
from the fist of Dewey Johnson." it is one of the most successful that
Johnson's bond was fixed at $3,000. we have ever had;
Hypes has several acquaintances whereas. we V8ie vprv n:hIv thp
in Clayton, who knew him in Kansas pffipipri(. anH mnscipntinns wnrk nf
when Hypes was a traveling sales- Prof R L Rrigbaum, who has been
man tor a oaroer supply nouse in of valuable aid in preparing young
Topeka. He was known as a relig- teathers for their work, and in help-
10U3 ianailC. I .noP AUar toapriPVa in onnin trtom.
Dr. Bassett, of Des Moines, took
Hypes body to Sofia, Monday. Mrs.
selves better for their profession; and
we are fortunate to have the benefit
Hypes, visiting in Illinois is reported of his excellent qualifications, of his
to have wired that she was afraid to
return to New Mexico thinking that
her husband had been killed in a
"border raid."
The coroner's, jury consisted of M.
G. Tixier, R. M. Sloan, Dr. N. E.
Charlton, R. Q. Palmer, Roy Murray
and T. F. Savage.
wise and mature judgement, and of
his many years of broad experience
as a teacher and superintendent of
schools,
Whereas, in Mrs. Dyer we find i
most able instructor in primary meth
ods and industrial work. We find
her large range of experience coupled
with an intense love for her1- chosen
vocation go to make her of the most
in the
In spite of the dry weather, which
usually makes first its material ad
verse appearance in bank statements.
The First National Bank and the Un
ion County Trust and Savings Asso
ciation showed a very substantial gain
in assets over prior statements. The
May statement found the First Na
tional with assets listed at $519,229.96
while in the recent statement assets
amounted to $567,719.98. The Union
County Trust and Savings Association
in its former statement showed assets
of $169,890.83 while the last call
found total assets at $196,881.67.
CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION
CLERK
An examination for clerk will be successtui primary teacners
held at the post office in this city on
August. 26, 1916. Whereas, we feel that we have
Aore limit. 18 to 45 years on the been greatly benefitted by Mrs.
date of the examination. Rhoades effective and artistic instruc
Married women will not be admitted tion and helpful suggestions both in
to the examination. This prohibition music and art, and by her entertain-
however, does not apply to women ing leadership in the general exer-
who are divorced, but they are elig- cise work
lble for appointment only as clerk. Whereas, we recognize in Mr. Ray
Applicants must be physically S. Dum a man of trained mind, broad
sound, and male applicants must be sympathies, an independent and ac
not less than 5 feet 4 inches in height curate htinker, and a teacher of high
in bare feet, and weight not less than rank, who has a firm grasp on his
125 pounds without overcoat or hat subjects and understands how to pre-
For application blanks and for 8ent them in a most effective manner.
B il J. 11. I
iuii .niormawon reianve to me exam- Therefore, be it resolved that we
inawons, quanncauons, aunes, saiar- hpart!v pndorge the work of the In.
Mrs. Frank Barnhart will be hostess
to the Five Hundred Club next week
ies, vacations, promotions, etc., ad
dress immediately
THE POSTMASTER,
Post Office, Clayton, N. M.
teachers in Union county reached a
toal of 135. He has had the school
houses modernly equipped and has
established school libraries whenever
it was possible to do so. He was very
instrumental in securing legislation
that gave the rural district a mini
mum term of seven months.
He has done a great service in
bringing Union county into recognr
tion by the leading and most influ
ential educators of the state, and
thereby affiliating the educational
work of this county with the educa
tional progress of the state. A few
examples serve to show the esteem
in which he and his work are held
throughout the state. In 1915 he was
one of the judges on thought and com
position in the State Oratorical Asso
ciation, and he was also one of the
judges in the State Declamatory con
test. He was the first of the newly
elected superintendents to be chosen
chairman of the Division of County
Superintendents of the State eTach-
ers Association, an honor bestowed
upon him at the State Convention in
1915. In addition to his able work in
this capacity he has rendered valu
able service on many other commit
tees at the past four meetings of the
State Teachers' Association. He has
been the means -of bringing such edu
cators as Dr. Boyd, of the University
of New Mexico, and Dr. Roberts, of
the New Mexico Normal University
to examine into school conditions of
this county. After one of these vis
its Dr. Roberts wrote to the press a
highly complimentary report of the
school conditions of Union county and
stated that for the past fifteen years
he had traveled over many western
states ánd worked with many county
superintendents, and he had never
seen a county superintendent more
closely affiliated with his teachers or
more helpful to them in government
and methods than Supt. Errett. The
editor of the New Mexico Journal of
Education says that the work done by
Supt. Errett can hardly be surpossed
elsewhere in the state; that quietly
and without any heralding he lias
placed his county in the van of edu
cational progress. State Superin
tendent of Education Alvan N. White
warmly commends Mr. Errett for his
earnest efforts for more efficient pub
lic schools in Union county; and states
that a checking of Union county re
ports, and a review of the correspon
dence with the teachers and citizens
(Continued on Page Five)
Catholics to Hold Big Fair
stitute faculty and request their re
turn in 1917.
Resolved that we tender our thanks
to Mrs. M. R. Jones, a musician of
rare skill and attainment, who has ad
ded much to the ejoyment and suc
cess of the Institute.
Whereas, County Superintendent
State Bank Gets Another Machine
Another adding, rather a book
keeping machine is due to arrive soon
at the State Bank of Commerce. Ac
cording to T. H. Rixey, the machine Errett, during his four years' incum
installed some time ago for this same bency has raised the schools of Un
work has proved worth its weight in ion county to a high standard of ef
coin of the realm, inasmuch as it ficiency; has rendered untold assist
saves the employment of an extra ac- ance to the teachers in encouraging
countant. The new addition will be them to raise the grades of their cer
the same in many details as the pres- tificates. thereby helping them to se-
ent machine except that the new com-1 cure better salaries; and has brought
er will be run by electric motor. ' Union county into a position of leader-
Members of the Catholic Church,
and the Francescan sisters, will hold
a fair during court week and no ex
pense or labor will be spared to make
this fair the best of anything of its
kind the town has ever had yet.
Amusements are planned and there
will be attractive booths with the
most desirable wares. Mrs. Frank
Garcia has been elected President of
the committees to superintend the
work. Luncheons will be served dily.
Mrs. John Brophy in charge of the
needlework department and Mes-
dames Leyba and Gould will preside
over the Fish Pond. A doll booth, In
dian, Chinese and Spanish booths,
country store, Fortune-telling, and
dancing, will comprise the amuse
ments, each day -and evening. The lo
cation will be announced later.
through that the crowd and evidently
some of the slugging Eagles were
literally unable to see. To see Knad
dler in action reminds one of Ripley's
famous sport cartoons. He starts
with a terrific wind-up ending with
apparently every ounce of muscle in
his big body (with a few sticks of
dynamite thrown in) sending the ball,
which, leaving his hand while his body
is at some unknown acute angle,
makes a sizzling grey streak and
lands in the catcher's big mitt with
a noise like the crack of a forty-five.
Seventeen batters, more than half the
total number to face him, struck out.
He hit no one and allowed no walks.
Men on. bases, though they were few,
drew no attention from him. The task
of retiring the batter seemed to com
prise his sole mission and that he was
successful is verified by the score of
2 to 0. Big Catcher Lyons handled
the fast ones the classiest kind of
style.
While on the subject of twirlers we
must not for a single instant forget
Leo Rossi, the Eagle's star. Tuesday's
game was his first defeat since his
engagement with Trinidad. While he
perhaps hasn't the remarkable speed
nor the sharp, bewildering curves of
the 20-year old giant, he has the dis
tressing knack of making the batter
roll, wobbly, weak infield balls into
everybody's hands for a put out. On
the other hand when a tatter does
connect with Knaddler's fast ones
they have the equally distressing habit
of dropping just behind the infield.
The fielding exhibition of the two
teams just about balanced. Clayton
fielders had about one third as many
fielding chances as Trinidad and
made one error, Miller being the un
lucky chap at short. Eagles are
charged with three errors the first of
which was responsible for one score.
The score should have stood 1 to 0.
After shut-out ball until the last
half of the eighth, Knaddler biffed
a hot one to Hogán. It sailed be
tween his pins and Knaddler reached
second. Bobby Miller redeemed him
self by getting a single through sec
ond. Knaddler came home and about
500 fans at last released the hysteri
cal scream that had been piling up
down third base line on which there
is some dispute as to whether Clark
should have been charged with an
error. But Miller scored and Lynch
went to third on a wild throw to first.
Lyons flied out to Richardson and that
ended everything of consequence.
There were two or three squabbles
over decisions which looked rather
raw to Clayton but the fans demanded
that the game go on regardless of
decisions and on it went.
on slow grounder to second.
Fifth inning, Trinidad, Bryden went
out at first on hot grounder to Moore.
Caskey singled. Martin struck out and
Caskey was caught at second on steal.
Clayton Moore sent a fly to Rich
ardson who corralled it. McFaddea
(Continued on Page Five)
IN THANKS TO "FATTY"
The Citizen, speaking for the fans
of Clayton wishen to thank "Fatty"
Lyons, the big Dalhart catcher, who
handled in such an able manner
Knaddler's rapid ones In Tuesday's
game. Mr. Lyons came to the rescue
when Clayton's catcher went out of
the game with broken thumb.
