PUBLISHED W TIIII OFIIURO IKNS SENTYSUSCIINE
Established 1871-Volume 468,CJUY2916
It's Up To You
We dislike very much to call the at
tpntion of any of our subscribers to the
factthat their subscriptions to this pa
er have expired, and we only do it be
causq we do not wish them to miss a
copy of the paper. We have sent per
sonal notices to every subscriber whose
time expires by August 1 and we have
called their general attention to the
fact. thru the columns of the paper
twice. Some have paid noattention to
any of the notices and we will have to
drop their names from the list unless
they renew by August 1. We' do not
like to lose subscribers, but our rule is
to pay in advance for the paper and we
cannot have' some to pay in advance
and let others run over. It would be
unfair to our subscribers and ourselves.
Rica and poor, old and young, influen
titl and uninfluential, everybody is
treated alike. Now please do not neg
lect'this and then when your name is
dropped from the list get mad at us
about it, for we have notified you in
every way we can and want everyone
of you to stay with us.
Pickens County and the Storm
Compared to adjacent territory, Pick
ens county was not much damaged by
the recent freshet which wrought such
havoc in other parts of the country.
About twenty small bridges in different
sections of the county were washed
away, but none of the larger bridges
are gobe, tho one or two are reported
slightly damaged. The roads are badly
washed in some places.
Bottom corn in all sections of the
county is badly damaged and in many
places destroyed.
The Pickens railroad suffered a small
washout at Wolf- creek Saturday and
was forced to annul the early morning
train, caring for the passengers and
mail by automobile.
Old ihhabitants say Town creek was
th highest Saturday afternoon ever
known, but it quickly subsided.
Henry Williams of the Peters Creek
section reports that his section has been
the hardest hit in the county and some
of the crops there are completely de
stroyed. A severe wind and hail storm
also visited this sectio'n four weeks ago
and did great damage.
The people of this county generally
are very optimistic and very grateful
that the damage is no greater. We
have cause to be thankful.
Another Bully Caught
Frank Jackson, a bad negro from
Kentucky who has been bullying the
pegroes in construction camps along the
Southern railway, is in .the Pickens jail
and "Hun" Ferguson, his partner, will
e likely soon be keeping him company as
a result of a shooting affair at Calhoun
Sunday morning.
Jackdon and Ferguson, who were
working on the Southern railroad in
Oconee County, likkered up Sunday
morning and paid a visit to Contractor
Mays' camp near Calhoun. Mr. Mays
ordered the negroes away and they left,
but in a short time came back and when
they got sight of Mr. Mays again began
shooting at him, firing about fifteen
shots. The contractor returned their
fire with five shots, but no one was hit.
* The negroes then made their wag back
to Oconee. Officers LaBoon and Mc
- Kinney happened to be at Central at
the time and were upon the scene of
trouble in a short time. They with Mr.
* Mays went after the culprits and found
them with a crowd in a small hut gam
bling. In the confusion 'Mri Mays was
only able to identify Jackson and he
was nabbed. Jackson says Ferguson
is the other one, and as- lhe is well
known to the officers he will probably
be captured soon.
A Remarkable Advertisement
The Sentinel publishes an advertise.
ment this week sent out by the rail
roads of the country through their joint
committeee to present their claims in
the matter of the proposed strike' on all
the roads in the country. This is a
most remarkable campaign of publicity.
The roads pay hard cash for this adver
tising. It was placed In 3,000' daily
papers and in 14,000 weeklIes. It cost
them $200,000. It is headed Rilroad
Wages. Read it.
6 Stansell-Dorsey
Mar'ried, Sunday, July 23, at the resi
dence of the officiating officer, Mir. Bas
com Dorsey to Miss Pearl Stansell, J.
Alonzo Brown, N. P., at the throttle.
Mr. Dorsey is the eldest son of Mr.
''Fletcher Dorsey of Liberty route 8,
while his bride is of the same place and
is the eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Jesse Stansell, The happy young couple
K have our best wishes. B.
From Cateechee
After a long silence ye will let the
readers of the dear old Sentinel hear
from this 6ide again. While we haven't
been contributing any news to the col
umns of The Sentinel of late, we have
been a constant reader of it and we are
proud to say that we - have the best
county paper now that Pickens county
has ever had. The writer has been a
constant reader of it for 32 years.
While we will admit that there may be
some county papers-weekly papers, we
mean-that contain more editorials thah
The Sentinel, for the editor, we notice,
is loath to give his views on, a lot of
"dead-headed" stuff, such as we read
in some other papers; yet, taking the
county news as a whole, The Sentinel is
on top.
Farmers in this section have their
crops in fine shape now, but the way it
has been raining for the past few days
they are likely to get grassy. Cotton is
small and not a very good stand in some
places, while corn is looking fairly well.
Haven't seen any extra watermelon
patches yet, but don't guess that mat
ters much, as the candidates have quit
treating. We are sincerely glad that
they have, for a man that can't be
elected on his merits without having
to buy votes ought not to hold an office.
We hope the voters of Pickens county
will look well and think a great deal
before casting a ballot for the two men
who want to represent us in the next
general assembly. There is something
more to be looked at about those two
men than their "collar and tie" and the
smiles they may have or' their faces
when they meet you. The common
class have been fed on promises until
their stomachs have become like a doc
tor's patient when he mentions salts
they gag when they hear a promise
made. The candidate that makes a
promise now just to catch votes and
doesn't try to comply with that promise
when he gets elected had as well make
up his mind to retire to private life
when his term of office expires.
What we need is some laws repealed
that we. have on the statute book and
some put on it that we haven't got.
For, instance, the dog law, for one. We
have a commutation dog tax, which
means. 60% on the head of every dog in
the county. How many dogs in Pickens
county are listed? Not half of them.
We know of men working for wages
who can scarcely keep up their families
who have from one to three old, worth
less dogs to feed. How many cows
have gone mad or had to be killed thiA
year on account of worthless dogs?
Then, too, think of the danger that
people as well as stock are in when an
old, worthless dog goes mad! Give us
a law that requires every dog to be
muzzled, let the state furnish the muz
zles and charge them up to the pur
chasers. When a dog is found without
a muzzle let all peace officers kill that
dog at its owner's home o' anywhere
else. Also make the owner of.that dog
give a good and sufficient bond for any
damage that that dog may do. When
this is done, then you will see worthless
dogs exterminated.
There are other needed laws we would
like to speak of, but space forbids. We
may have somethisg more to say along
this line-'later.
Some correspondents to The Sentinel
have spoken about how progressive their
Sunday schools are. The Sunday school
at-Cateechee has an enrollment of 190,
with an average attendance 'of 140.
There have bieen as high as 204 present.
As the church building was insuffcient
to accommodate the audience the mem
bers have just recently completed four
more classrooms, bought new seats for
same and rep~ainted the church. G. F.
Norris is superintendent of--the school
and W. R. Hutchinson secretary. Bro.
Willis of Six Mile is the pastor and he
is doing a good work. The Lord has
touched the hearts of men at Cateechee
under his preaching that we never saw
reached before. May the Lord continue
to bless the efforts that are being made
at Cateechee toward saying the souls of
men and women is our prayer. B.
.Motor Vehicles in This County
Up until July 15, there were 532 au
tomobiles registered in Pickens county.
The first automobile registered in Pick
ens county was registered by James M.
Barr in Jiuly, 1907, and was No. 2, the
first number going to a tractor, which
also fomes under the head of motor ve
hicles. During the year, 1915, 140 mo
tor vehicles were registered in Pickens
county, and since January 1, 140 have
been registered. Since May 1, 72 have
been registered, 39 of which were
Fords. The Ford is the only automo
bile advertised in The Sentinel.
About 25 more voters are enrolled on
the Pickens club roll this year than two
years ago. This is a healthy sign.
RAILROAD
Shall they be determined by
Industrial Warfare or
Federal Inquiry?
To the American Public:
Do you believe in arbitration or indus
trial warfare?
The train employes on all the railroads
are voting whether they will give their leaders
authority to tie up the commerce of the
country to enforce their demands for a. 100
million dollar wage increase.
The railroads are in the public service
your service. This army of employes is in
the public service-your service..
You pay for rail transportation 3 billion
dollars a year, and 44 cents out of every
dollar from you goes to the employes.
On all the Southern railroads in 1915, seventy-five per cent of the
train employes earned these wages (lowest, highest and average w
of all) as shown by the payrolls
Passenger Freight Yard
Ranse Average Rase Average Reuse Average
Engineers. $1972 $2306 $1455 $1916 $1156 $1566
3810 3505 2424
Conductors 1552 1847 1353 1580 1055 1245
2696 2358 1749
Firemen . 943 1209 649 979 406 777
1652 1638 1302
rakee. 957 1109 755 958 754 99
1736 1 1854 9 1405
The average yearly wage payments to all Southern train em
ployes (including those who worked only part of the year) as
shown by the 1915 payrolls were
Passenger Freight Yard
Engneers. . . . . . $2144 $1712 $1313
Conducters . . . . . 1723 1488 1157
Firme.. e. e e 1096 865 688
Brakemen. * . * 1013 845 868
* A 100 million dollar wage increase for
men in freight and yard service (less than
one-fifth of all employes) is equal to a 5 per
cent advance in all freight rates.
The managers of the railroads, as trustees
for the public, have no right to place this
burden on the cost of transportation to you
without a clear mandate from a public tri
bunal speaking for you.
The railroads have proposed the settle
meInt of this controversy either under the
existing national arbitration law, or by refer
ence to the Interstate Commerce Commis
sion. This offer has been refused by the
employes' representatives.
Shall a nation-wide strike or an
investigation under the Gov
ernment determine this issue?
National Conference Committee of the Railways
ELISHA LEE, Chairman.A.. tIA..a.Rrfe,
P. .LR IG14HT (.en'l Nnger,StLe. SaFreaeRared
AlenS. Ce~ c e iroaC .KUS ~IMng
c. . BALDWI, Gen M- ge, Arra Athian Tpkar..a.FeRalw
E. H. C.OAPMAN, V'ice-President, NrokadWaenRiwy
SIouthera Railway.JA S usuG 'IMner
s. E. CO'I1EII Can'! Manag. r, *Da~&R.Gad alod
P. E. CROWLEY, A.st, l'Lce-PresIdent, enytna ~g et
New York Ceagr.l Railroad.
W. L. sCHON ER .Pree-Pr...
G. II EMERSON, L en IManager, . sEDeao A, -n Raiway
C. H. E ING. La'! Maager.G. sJ. STN, Co Pat Ie
R. T. Waddell, who owns and lives at Msr.Ens n akCrso
the Kay mill lacne in the Georges Creekphraepndgteivctonwh
section of the countyv, was a businessthibrheRvW.Aigiia
visitor in Pickens Monday. He says adBitw tIucn re n
the water in his section was the highestGnnyrsetvl.Tyaeta
during thd recent freshet he has ever eigb uooie
known it to be, but that no bridges ___ ____
were washed away and not much dam
age done, thu roads are badly washed inA riaewchasuteau
some places. piet hi in red a hto
H. P. Grimfn, of Liberty, road super-SuieofGenlewchtkpae
visor for the Southern rail road, was one a h oeo h rd' ohri
of the several men who lost their livesPcksSudynhRe..E.Wg
in trying to save the bridge over thegisofcan.rhebdesa(lu
Catawba river at Belmont, N. C., last tro r.K .Crtno ikn
Sunday. Hie, with 18 other men,anisaoplryugad.Ioth
had been detailed to try and save the ps eea er h a id e
structure anid wvent down with thehoeiGrnvlbigteefcet
bridge. His body was found about 300 bokee o ob-edro o
yards below the bridge and itlisthought M.Sursas od epnil
from the marks onl his body thathe waspoionitthscmayTeyav
killed by the timbers. The body wasmayfinswoihfrtemuh
broughtpterLibertyeandnuriedethereahapniness
thi4rtes'e. .AGgila
an BitoatDncn Ger n
Pickens-Helps Wilson
A public spirited citizen of Pickens
collected thirty dollars in a short time
this week for the campaign fund of
Wilson and Marshall. If there are any
others who have not contributed to
this fund, but who would like to, The
Sentinel will be glad to acknowledge
the contributions and see that they are
sent to the proper place. The follow
ing patriotic Demoqrats of Pickenscon
tributed:
Sam B Craig ---------- ---- $1.00
CLCureton...--------- 2.501
W L Matheny- - - 1.00
RELewis - 1.00
J W Julian -------------------- 1.00
W F Christopher -- 1.00,
John B Craig_ 1.00
Cash -.. -.. .50
RTHallun .50
Gary Hiott ----------1.00
J N Hallum- .50
F McFall.- .50
J D Yongue - .50
A S Porter .50
I M Mauldin. 1.00
J C Carey 1.00
H E Seaborn 1.00
C E Robinson -- ------- 1.00
ACGravley.-------------- ---1.00
Mack Christopher .50
J McD Bruce_-_.----- _. 1.00
Cash-__ _ ...50
L C Thornley. 1.00
ADAttaway .50
R W Christopher ------ 1.00
G RI Hendricks.. 1.00
Guy McFall .50
B Hendrix- -----1.00
RLfHames------.- .50
T R Allen ...---.50
E F Alexander ------------------ .50
R R Roark ------ - 1.00
T J Mauldin -----------1.00
W-E Findley 1.00
T A Bowen--------------------- .50
Cash -------------------- .50
Total------- ---------------- $30.00
This money has been sent to campaign
headquarters and will be used to help
re-elect Woodrow Wilson president of
the United States.
Two Pickens Co. Men Killed
Larry D.ILark, son of Julius Lara of
Pickens county, was killed at Saluda
river last Tuesday when a high frame
work tower on which he was working
collapsed. Robert Boyce ]Jay, son of
R. A. Kay, also of Pickens county, fell
with the tower at, the same time and
was so badly injured that he died next
day.
The young men were employed by the
H. J. Dunnivant company, who have
the contract for the construction of the
concrete work for the Southern rail
way's trestle over Saluda river. A high
framework tower had been erected and
the two men were up on it attaching
guy wires to hold it steady. The tower
was about 75 feet high. The hard rain
of the night before, it is believed, soft
ened the foundations of the tower, apd
it suddenly collapsed.
The coroner's inquest was held over
both bodies Wednesday afternoon. The
jury brought in a verdict of accidental
death.
Messrs. Lark and Kay were members
of well-known families of the Crosswell
section and their untimely deaths causes
sorrow among a large number of friends,
who sympathize with the hereaved p~a
rents.
A New Departure
We notice that several newvspapers in
in this state are carrying display polit
icall advertising for county andl other
offices. We have suggested to candi
dates and repeat the suggestion that if~
a merchant can reach the people by ad
verising the candidates can (10 the same
thing and it would pay themi. Lasts
week we noticed a half page advertise
ment in ,the Winsnboro Herald1 and
News of a revival meeting in progress
in that townt. It is a new dleparture
but a sensible one.
The candidates will not reach twenty
per cent of the voters on the county
campaign. Use Sentinel advertising
and reach them in the best way pos5
sible. You will not have to stop a man
from his work to present your claims,
but by your adlvertisement you can ap
peal to him at his leisure and stand1 a
better chance of winning his approval
of your candidacy.
Congressmen to Speak
Tlhe candidates for congress from this
district will speak at Pickens Thursday
morning, July 27, at Easley Friday, .July
28, and at Central Saturday afternoon
at 2 o'clock. lThe Plckens meeting will
be the first regular meeting of these
candidates. All of the candidates are
announced1 in T1he Sentinel.
Our good friend P. M. Birenzoale, ac
comp3anied by his twin children Marion
and Marie, paidl us a very pleasan t vis
it one day last week. They not only
paid us a pleasant visit, but presented
us with our first watermelon of the
season.. They have our many thanks.
We would like to tell them how much
we (10 thank them, but we are too full
of watermelon for utteanncen right now.
Mountain Boy MalesGood
The hard knocks failing to the lot of
most mountainf boys, experience has
taught, is making men. o .'them1 Ali '
striking instance of the mountain boy
who has made good in the face of well
nigh insurmountable difficulties is Mr.
J. D. Lanford of the Greenville. bar, q
who is now a candidate. for Solicitor of
the Thirteenth Circuit.
Mr. Lanford was born thirty-five years
ago near Gowensville, In Greenville
county, of poor parents. His father in
rearing a large family in a rough moun
tain country was not able to make ends
meet and became somewhat involved
and was forced to mortgage his farm.
But as his family grew into manhood it.
was demonstrated that the father had
not reared in vain, for the boys set
about to raise that mortgage from their
father's farm.
When the subject of this sketch was
just fifteen years of age his fathier
moved away from his home and took up
his residence at; Piedmont, in the lower
part of Greenville county; and there and
elsewhere, from his fifteenth year, John.
D. Lanford worked in cotton mills, cot
ton mill stores, on the farm and at
teaching school to raise the mortgage
from his father's home. When this was
done, and not till then, (lid he begin his
education, paying his own way through
South Carolina College. After five
years, working during the time at any
thing which he could lay his hands to in
the summer and during the college year
at odd jobs in and around Columbia, he
came out of college in the summer of
1909 a full-fledged lawyer.
Immediately after being admitted to
the bar J. D. Lanford took up his resi
dence at Greer and began (he practice.
of law In the courts of Greenville avd:
Spartanburg counties. He was soon.
married to Miss Ethel Ballenger of
Spartanburg county, and they now have
three small children.
At Greer Mr. Lanford soon became a
leading spirit in the progressive citizen
ship of the community, standing, as he
does, for the strict enforcement of law
and the development of the best in his,
fellow-citizens. He was appointed a.
member of the board of trustees of the
Greer schools and during his adminis
tration they flourished. He then was
appointed recorder of the Greer City
Court on a ticket of strict law enforce
ment, and the blind tiger and gambling
element of that community will never
forget how John Lanford put them on
the right road by making their illicit
trade too unpopular for pursuit.
Two years ago his legal practice be
came so large that he was forced to
move his office to Greenville in order to
be nearer the center of his activity. He
opened an office on East Court street,
and immediately made himself felt
among the Greenville bar. His old
clients had followed him and daily he
acquired new ones. till the first of the
present year he branched out still fur
ther and formed a partnership with Mr.
James M. Richardson under the firm
name of Lanford & Richardson, which
firm became known at once as one of
the leading law firms of Green ville. The
first of July this year when, under the
Tlorrens Sytem of Land Registration the
Clerk of Court of Greenville county un
dertook to appoint five of the leading
Greenville lawyers as examiners of
titles, he selected both Mr. Lanford and
Mr. Richardson, thus showing what
home p~eople think of the ability of the
firm.
All through the years of Lanford's
practice at the bar he has made a rule
to take such cases as he thought to be
just, but once in a case he never knows
when to quiit. lie is a fighter from the
word "'go,"' but fights in the open.
Never has he been known to use an un
derhand method to win a case. He
wins, but by, fair means. He has ap
peared on one side or the other in a
large number of both criminal and '~ivil
cases in all the courts of the state, and
has been singularly successful.
In May, when Hon. Proctor A. Bon
ham announced that he would not offer
for re-election, Mr. Lanford decided to
enter the race. He is making a man's
fight for the nomination, and those close
to the political pulse of the circuit pre
dict his certain nomination. He began
life ir? the'mountains, he has had a long,
up--hill climb; but through it all he has
been a fighter and he is a fighter still,
and when he is elected Solicitor the
Thirteenth Circuit will have an officer
who stands for fair, impartial and strict
enforcement of law. -Adv.
T1he checker craze has hit Pikkens
again and this great game is now more9
popular here than ever before. You
can find one or more games going on
somewhere in town at any time during
the day. There are three or four real
ly good players here, besides amateura
of all classes. The Sentinel is now -.
looking for a good checker e<)itor t -
report the games.
