m
Si?? 3u enfrtg Hmttfi
, AMATH COUNTY'S
KLAMATH FALLe)' j
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER '
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, THURSDAY, JULY 27, 1916.
Price Five Canto
Tinth Ytnr-No. S.OM
Klamath May Have New Lumber Industry
,A .. fc. ..-j-.. -.JJ.J. . .-,-,.-. ... . . ""i-irunnryjnruyiTVUijxuvvs
MONTANA MAN HERE
TO MANAGE PLANT
Views of Siege of Chicago Negro
Maniac, Where Six Were Killed
mauw,w4, "P&tt&Ji&JiGU&Mr
WILL II COT.UP PLANT FOR SASH
AND DOOR
Mn It ft' Loc Lumbermen to Take
Ovtrlht Old Savldge Irethtra' Mill
n Sixth Street-The lltt It Splsn
did, tnd the Market for Output la
Ctrttln, Sayt Experienced Mill mtn
of Thlt City.
CRATER LAKE IS
AS GREAT AS ANY:
, EXTENSIVE TRAVELER FROM
I NKW YORK 8EK8 KLAMATH'S
NATURAL WONDER, AND SAYS
! IT RANKS HIOH
garage.
"I have visited Hip Holy Land, tti
I. tuntlM nnd Mies !. Daniel.
DEATH IF THEY i
RAISE PRICES1
MAJOR RBNO HAS COMMENCED
Thlnss look bright for Klamath Fall ,.,. , , ,
to hive new industry in we very
Mir future. The now Industry con- wnn mo Bremen nmurm wonuorn i
tunpltted l n cut up mill to mak hare aocn," said D. II. Dnrnett yeater-
uih tnd door lumber out of common day. nfter returning from the Inko with
rvegh lumber. The prospective mill Uf p,trjclt of tnc white Pelican
In to be backed by locnl men, including
TnoBU Hampton and otliera.
m IamI. avjip (tin IWirittlhlHllfta llf Miirli
IVIWBUIll ' ,'."-....- -'- .-.... ap I
mill here, to confer with local lum- lp ana mom or the Historic nnu '
bermtn from whom the rough lumber. "nle attraction of Buropo and other
most be purchased, nnd to generally countries, but Crater Lake rank well
IsTNtlptt. 'J. P llole of Missoula. besides the. beat of them."
Mont, arrived Innt night. Mr. Bode i Mr. Darnett In from Now York, nnd
hu had thirty year1 experience In the Pnd practically all hi tlmo travel
hunter business, many of which were With him wore Mr. Barnett. Mia
Fpent In the cutup business. He baa
been most highly recommended by Mr.
Cornwall, publisher of the American
Lumberman.
It U propoted to turn the mill and
pttat formerly operated by Savldge
brother on Sixth street Into the now
cut-up plant Mr Iloilu looked over
the Strldco plant thin morning, and
thli afternoon I visiting tho Johnaon
md Mortennon mill nt Shlpplngtoti
nd Pelican City
"The mill It Is piopoHcd to use I
tdtqtute for our needs, nnd la splon
Oldlr located," unld Mr. Ilode, at no.m
I' 'ft "I tin abn i olv no.l)lr. if
Mrktt for all the imlerlnl we iiruld
" i'P, and mucn u .re Thcro .o
fily two things ,( .m seo enn nt.v
tad In the wn -f nturllnK the cui-
'i' mill.
"tint, we mum bo nmtured of helnir
Me to get at a reaaonablo flmiro nil
the rouxh lumber we need, and aeo-
d, we mutt have adequate capital.
unaemand that themt condition
" he nut."
A tut-up pant n Klnmath Palla U
tonildered by local lumbermen a fetal-
' undertaking became of frelgh
tU to the East, ny cutting and An-
"Wnx the rough lumber Into aueh
ttpe that it can bo roadlly made
!, ,a'n' door and other thing, and
" "vlngs In frelRht to the Eaat will
wved through tho decrcnBod weight
d buik o, ,umbor Qn (he flther
"wa. the proposed cut-up plant will
Z 1 lumber ln, AnlHliod doors
"'W height rate to Rtern point..
tim u ... ""ercM" local lumber-
g-.. '.uww, niw.w i'MimMMuiMmwmmmm;m
7. ,, j f . . . . .
F 'l Ifc V ' if g tAi'Ti -? f"llgfiiatMalaaaaTaBr7Tl"irTTi- s B ri&rrw'
9B J, yjr K "B i Sll'JaH .aaaB 'fyefrr- "j&J " - ttgaBUa JaBa H
CLASSIFICATION
OF GRANT LAND
HAS BEEN BEGUN
WOMAN HAVING
BOMB MISSIES
IS DETAINED
1.000,000 ACRES TO COME WITHIN FORMER DYNAMITE CARRIER IS
CLASSIFICATION
Aa 160 Acre It 8lre of Claim, About
Five Thousand Claims Are Available.
2,300,000 Acres-Are Within the Grant
Although Alt the Land Cannot Be
Cultivated, Much of It Being Good
for Grazing Land Only
ARRESTED
I
Police Are Seeking for Strike Agitator
and Wife Following Raid Which Re
vealed Evidence and Records Impli
cating Them Jltman Is Arretted for
Hauling Men From the Scans of Sat-
' urdas Explosion.
Rifle uted In alege. Home dynamited by police Rifles used by Negro and wife
Henry Mclnntyrc, it maniac ncur o. and IiIh wife were besieged In their home In the West Side of Chicago,
after the man had killed acvoral pcrao iih. llcforo tho place was dynamited b y the police they shot a patrolman and
wounded three other pernon. In all t hey killed four. The wife was shot d own and her husband was killed later
hy a detective, who charged him. Th e persons killed were neighbors and p aaaerebr killed from the house.
PORTLAND, Ore., July 27. The of
flc of Louis L. Sharp, chief of the field
division of the general land office, pre-'
eents all the activities of a moblllza-i
tion camp, ,rellmlnary 10 commencing
;lhe big task of classifying the 2,300,
'000 acre of Oregon California grant
'land. Men are coming and going,
plans are blng mapped out and the
' whole place is humming with activity
preparatory to taking the field the lat-
' ter part of the present week.
i
Some idea of the land hunger of the
people, and some glimpse of the scenes
that will probably be re-enacted when
America Disputes Right NS
a r-- j i. di.1i- WEEPINGS SHE US
Ul LllgldllU IU DldlHHM
"'"" Mr- Bdo hero to manage It
- ' me Klamath Commercial
secretary Prd Pieot ha been
AN INSPECTION OF THE FEETtPnllt-il IW Sorvlro
' WASHINGTON, 1). C, July
(
Counsellor Polk of the state depart
' nient announced this morning that tho
Or ALL GUARDSMEN AND REG
ULARS ON BORDER
fulled Pre Service
Kl. PASO, July 27. General Hena.-n
hi thientcned merchant of Pat-nl,
Mexico, with death If they refi-) 'o
nioept Cnrranxn currency or if :liey
rulno prices.
It I announced huro that General
nil will soon visit the militia sta
tioned on tho Paclc Coaat.
Mnjor Reno has begun an Inspection
of tho fret of all regulnr nnd guards
men on tho border,
I protest of the American government
, nullum the ICiikIIhIi blnckllst order will
be. rorwimiod to London tonigni. lne blacklist
blacklisting or American Arms, and
27- disputes England's right to establish
tho list.
Polk contends that the blacklist or-,
, dei- In principle is a boycott
The government will ask assurances
Hint there will be no extension of the
to Americans and neutral
protest ii.nk.s Immediate, and specific countries dealing with the blacklisted
guarantees regarding the effect of the' (Inns.
ARTILLERY PLAY8 BIG PART IN
TODAY'8 BATTLES
Russians Capture Large Quantities of
Munitions When Erzingan Is Taken.
Berlin Claims Allies Are Repulsed In
Many Places, Often With Heavy
Losses and Muoh Cost In Men and
Blood.
CHARGED
WITH
Hughes and Fall Confer
United Press Service
NBW YORK, July 27. Charles B
Hughes, republican candidate for pres
ident, nnd Senator Fall of New Mexico,
wio ha just returned from a private
Investigation trip to tho Mexican bor
der, conferred today. Neither would
comment on their conference, Hughes
naylng It was a "pleasant conversation."
VArku. . u -.i'ui linn
'"runs on it.. ...
. position ror more
"wn a vn, i,,., ....
been
caused through inability to get a suit
Kble man to mnnago the plant. This
obstacle has been surmounted by the
procuring of Mr. Bode.
Aeroplanes, Warships
to Protect Deutschland
aorvlc.
Pluti rE W 27-N" "ro-
oWd the h " lh0 R,lled KtH
WS S. ComP,ole Protection
Stairvontpr,vatevMls
mii' "'" the ye'..,,,.. tul
a myattry. It Is believed that she Is
ready to depart any moment, but la
waiting to catch the allied warships
off their guard, when she can dash sea
ward with greater safety. Thus far,
however, tho vigilance of the allied
ships Is usTrelMtlng. . Nothing has boon
heard of the Dautsehlaaa'a aiatsr skit,
the Brsman, although the latter was
expected here several days ago.
FORMER LOCAL IS
LAWYER GUILTY LARCENY OF CHECK
H, S. CRANE IS CONVICTED IN EDDIE MANN IS ARRESTED AT
8TOCKTON OF EMBEZZLEMENT,
OF CLIENT'S MONEY IN SUIT
i
FOR DIVORCE
United Press Service
STOCKTON, Calif., July 27. H. S.
Crane, an attorney, wns convicted Into
yesterday of felony and embezzlement
after a sensational trial.
Crane's stenographer and. chauffeur,
who testified In bla behalf, havo been
aftoHted on a churge of perjury.
Crane wns accused of embezzling
f 400 from a client in a divorce suit.
United Press Service
LONDON, July 27. General Halg
reports intense artlllerying this after
noon on the British front The big
guns are active everywhere, and to
night hand to hand fighting is taking
place.
The Germans are making extensive
use of gas and weeping shells.
United Press Service .
PETROGRAX). July 27. It Is an
nounced that Czar Nicholas troops cap
tured large quantities of munitions at
Erzingan, formerly the Turkish supply
Charged with larceny of a bill of ex-depot. The Russians are In hot pursuit
change, Eddie Mann was arrested at , 0f the Turks.
Heavy artillery fighting Is going on
around Lobuzy.
At several points the Russians have
crossed the Slonlewka River.
German attacks on Urochlsch and
Bereznome have been repulsed.
RmIm hail (WAa.la takMAtAA.l ...n 0.ia
I aicmm una kivHHJ u4uyotm .ud nu.-
Mann cashed the check on Blan advance into Gallcla.
FORT KLAMATH AND 18 NOW IN
THE COUNTY JAIL ON A SERI
OUS CHARGE
Fort Klamath yesterday and brought
to Klamath Falls last night. Re will'
be given a hearing before Justice of
the Peaco'E. W. Gowen tomorrow.
Tho Information gotten out against'
Mann charges him with the theft of the'
Mtianfr frmn Thnmnu T. .TArlmftn nt Wirt I
Klumath
STEIGER 8EEKS TAX LIEN '
FORECLOSURE WILSON LAND
J. W. Llndqulst, proprietor of the Rexj
BERLIN, July 27. It Is announced
i that the British reconnaissance near
cafe. The check was drawn by Burge united Press Service
Mason In favor of Coley Ball, and had '
boen endorsed over to Mr. Jackson.
- . 11... - ht.lL. 1 U ...l . W
A ault for foreclosure or, a lax lion racuuurK una ucvu niiuuni. ciom-u
wan Instituted in circuit court today by' UROTHER OF D. B. CAMPBELL i assaultb on Barleux and Floury also
J. J. Stolger. Lloyd Wilson et al are1 DIBS AT ST. THOMAS, CANADA, have been repulsed, as have grenade
named as defendants. Tho land cov-( attackh west of Poileres.
ored by tho tax lien is the SEK of, According to a copy of the Bt. Thorn-' righting continues everywhere, with
NEK.Nli orSE,andSEU of 8E J as Times, Ontario, Canada, received j artillery active between the Sorauw
section 35, township 40 south, range 13 ' this morning, J. L. CampbelU brother j und Ancre.
east, Wlllamotto Meridian. B. C. o! U B. Campbell of this city, passed Russian attacks on Schltichara. west
Thomas Is attorney for Stolger. awny last week. Death was due to .of Berestezkp. have been sanguinarily
paralysis, from which the deceased had repulsed. - '
Sharks Got Bodies i.ufforcd for some time. I Vienna announces that the Austrians
United Press Service , U B. Campbell and Mrs. J. g. Elliott, have retired south of Lessnyow before
MOBILE, Ala., July 27. Coast daughter of the deceased, were at the' superior forcea. The Russians have ad
,,BrA nfflrni-R declare that Bharlcs ate bedside when the end earn, later-, vanced slightly In Radilvlllov.
it,. hnriiM of the crew of the wrecked ment was made in the it. TtSBWi.oee.- ArtlUery attacks by the Italians on
.,. . ---. , .
1'nited Press Service
SAN FRANCISCO, July 27. Follow
ing the arrest last night of Warren K.
Billings, the police have detained Mrs.
Belle Lahen after Ending In her room
missies similar to those Ib the bomb
exploded during the preparedness pa
rade last, Saturday.
Israel Welnburg, a jitneymaa, has
.been arrested, charged with hauling
two Implicated people away from the
explosion. Thomas Mooney, aa agita
tor, who attempted to cause a streetcar
strike here, and his wife are sought.
the agricultural lands of the Oregon-1 following a raid which revealed lacrltB-
uaiirornia grant are tnrown open to
entry, is gained from the prospective
opening of the Colville Indian reserva
tion in the state of Washington. Up
to the present time approximately
100,000 applications have been filed for
claims in that reservation.
Big Rush Is Going on
inatlng evidence and records of dyna
miting In other cities.
Billings has served a term la the
penitentiary for carrying dynamite to
Sacramento during the strike trouble
there.
Three suspects were arrested today.
Two are Ed Nolan and Joe Federer.
'I he big rush is taking place not-; but the police will not divulge the idea-
withstanding the fact that there are
not more than 3,000 claims to be
thrown open to entry In the reserva
tion. Out of this total number not
more than 500, at the outside, are.
such claims as would be looked upon
with favor by western people who
Vnow the farming conditions of this
country and the limitations which sur
round pioneering In a new country.
tlty of the third. It Is believed he is
a former labor agitator.
it Is reported that Billings has con
fessed, but the police deny this, but
say information gleaned from him in
dirates that the outrage Saturday was
but one of a contemplated series in
this vicinity. It is also indicated that
Billings was connected with the at
tempt to wreck the Sacramento power
The Colville land is in the rough plant and the San Mateo explosion.
mountainous country along the Wash- it is rumored that Mooney has been
ington side of the Columbia river, and located in Los Angeles,
the greater part of It is not suitable!
for cultivation. In spite of -this, how- United Press Service
ever, 100,000 people are taking the, SAN JOSE, July 17 The police here
trouble and going to the expense incl- received a letter this morning saying
dent to filing, in the hope that they j thai Billings is the wrong man, and
will be successful in securing a gvod , threatening the explosion of another
claim In the drawing.
Claim Is 160 Acres
bomb If he Is not released.
The landlord of a hotel here has
Isjden
isToTt
estimated that close to 1,000.000 acres oT" two suspects who stayed at the
e: land will come within the agnoul-; hotel during the week preceding the
tu a) classificattoD, and that appoxl-' San Francisco explosion.
mately 800,000 acres will be such land i
as can be entered and cultivated witb j Militiamen Cant Veto
vi lying degrees of ease and profit United Press Service
rmm the beginning. I WASHINGTON, D. C, July 27. The
Iheh land grant cct fixes 160 seres! senate reversed its action of yester
!.., iK size of a clum which will f-ir- day, when this morning It eliminated
ui, h 5 000 claim?. II is probable tfcat from the army btU the amendment per
the piovlsions of the act relating to mlttlng mlUtlament to vote In their
rrevloua settlement and amount of , camps In the November election.
limber on already
t-e tiled claim? will
result In there bc'n more than 5.(00
ilalnis carved out rf the tract
Tticpt. who knot the history of the
land grant Utlgatbn remember that In
iran Instances .". high as ten Indi
vidual applications were made tor tle
purchases or entry of the some claim
at $2.50 per acre, which would indicate
that the same condition will prevail
When the classifications are finally
made by the government and the lands
thrown open to entry.
Senate Passes World's
Largest Peace Time Bill
seheeaer, Carrie Strong.
1 etery.
J Valsugana have ceased.
Uuited Press Service
WASHINGTON, D. C, July 27. The
senate this afternoon passed the army
appropriation bill, which carries 1312,
C00,000, "
The army bill as passed by the sen
ate la the world's largest peace time
apBfetriaUos.
The appropriation as aaade by Mm
house was tm.OM.SM, and R to ex
pected that the house will t'tjtttf
ly the increase made by the SiieV
The amy bill as It caste frm;
seaate lacwaea an tptepneu
dependent families er I
' : v 'H
.tw mJ.
.My
5 '- "" (!
..''
PT4V.
