i
1
IT SHINES
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 203.
$100,000,000
MORE INCOME
TAX, IS PLAN
Kitcliin and Democrats
Agree on Mtiin Points of
J!eveiiue Measure.
W.U! MUNITION'S TO
YIELD $ID,000,000
WaMUN'.Ti'.v. March CO. Mijorlty
L-lir Kllehin mill the other Demo
irji'o meinriers of thn House Committee
on W'jys .ilnl Means have, reached an
kTrfniflit ."a to cswnll.il fc-itures
: uo rev.-..,..- ...c..s. m v .urmu-, putt,iatlvn committee def.re.l. but never
... . ., mean, nf Mnam-jng th n..Jthrw(, fhe commlUr, ,,.,...,,,,
u.no'i.il ixpi ml tures ti lie authorized .v.. . .1 ... . ..
, ,, subway tii-Rollu t luifi ih.it surrounded Hip
..v tlif pi'tciit Congress. Tho points ... .. ... .,, .... , . ,.
' . , visit of Mr. Shouts to the 'tin- Mayor
:ftirill .1.- settled :it thin lime aro as . . , ... , ',
' . Gaynor s, honifl at M. Jutnr i iitnl tl e
"" Ma)or'a subsequent attitude to'a-il tne
li-i. Muivi N,m,, , e r.useu ty 1
1 1. rca nag 111' Income tux rales.
on I. t.i will be levied on the
rn-iut.i'-iur.' of munitions of war. de
ns'ied ti- produce from JC.'.OUO.OOt to
Itu.OOc.VOV.
1' i'ril. .1:1 additional t20.00tf.00P, will
h. rah-d by levlis on Inheritances.
1 .. , .i.-c of the Internal revenue taxes
1 ' h.T and whiskey nr excises 141011
i till 11 rtlclcs from a lift of twenty
I ' e aVHi'ahle objects jf taxation which
imw Ising studied by members of
t.i N'.ivs ami Means CommltUr.
I'mirth. thi stamp tax provisions
i f ill.- present einergne' revenue act,
produ. el approximately ItO,
jA.i.ofj.) I ict year, urn to lio replied.
loo.lllMl.lMlll on Inciinir..
i. K'e.-.'ioiul tuilcm ioiisldr thit tlio 1
lex y 'if an nddltloii.it $100,')00,000 upon
,e nation's tnoomec I an a.ured fact
Sot only aro the Democratic mcnibem
tiii. Wayp and Mi'aus Comml.lvc In
Ttfiii-nt. but a cumpleti' canvm8 nf
i if L'cinccratli: inemlK.'rshlp of the llonip
la .olivine
1 c-u'jf-1 mi.-iuii a: 11 ni.s
'f'1 m'" "T.1"1 U5,."n
hi".."1"-! ...f . ra 1 " lbv Je-,
tnrnr-n.ii.M 1,... . .1 i a ,
J. S ' l " ' 'Z1 : ' U lXe,
.n-ome tax that th Wilson Admlnls-
ration will not .llsanor.,.. -,...i, r J...
,i.,. -pi... ii...,. ... u . ...
lure
Tho lloU. leaders have been In- I
tht the VreMdent will nut op-
.'ermed
IIUl OP" I
afitn tVl. Inr'nni.! tuv 1tix . . 1 W . . t
vii.., . '
Vmu ..u f..vnrl. ..l .. ..7 l I
rn. Intenial oombustloii enrlnev and
;uounu uh proper meann of rnlitn
lie l9j.non.flnn whl.-h h. ih sn.,?
would fultlce to defray tho Inrre.iid ex- wr conrtden-l. The propond
rtndlturr for the conilue flucal ear. . --,i'ract to John K. Stevwm for thin
The Hoube leader are convinced, how- ork wa he contrnct by which, ue
errr. that the amount named by the. ""dine to the memorandum nf Cnrdl
Prui'lcnt and by Secretary of the Treaa- M- 1tie. Mr Shorn exi'.'t.'.i to
ary McAdoo In tile annual report will not '"a,"'l certain '"commitments and ob
mitto. The tentutlve figure llxed upon l'Klllon" he hod Incurred In -lie tib.
Leader Kltchln and thn WayH unrt WR' "egotUtloiu,. Thn "I." third tracking
'teani rommlttee an necessary for tin. contract finally was let to the T A.
.',v programme In IK0.u0O.O00. The UH'iVde foinpany.
oommltteo will reserve final Judgment on t,"'r outatsii'lhig ,io1iiIh In the te.nl
the total. honLvr, until the defence mo"' ',,H"-r''v thesp;
1.-I.VU-' Hid the shipping bill have been .. Ul' Maroh :? 19'"' ""' '" "er
pjf'd be the Houst. I'rldent Shoiith iire.sented to Mr. will.
(cox tlip .o-ealled unsigned orr.r" or the
xpnntp ii Add 30.nM,UOO. I ItiJerborouKh to build lb.. eut.wiix lth
, . 'private capital, the It.terboi .jubIi Uiard
i' rxpp. tatlon Is that the Senate will of directors' voted extraordinary powers'
'i. i'i, defence measures so un to to the executive tommltti-.. to carry out
'-iMte ih,. impropriation of at least the nubway lugotlatlin which President
Ji'.'ii'O.'in.i aiorp thaii'would be required Shontn testified he "brought donn to
le- hr llrnj!.,. blllv. Sliould this be done . date-' at that meeting. Subsequently, on
ire PommlttH... probably will have re- 1 March 23 and on March 2s. two mure un
t . heavier levies on Inheritances, signed proposition were drawn embodi
''''''''ii. "f v.ar and the list of articles , Inc correctlonn miiile on the March 22
li hi been formulated as available I proposition. President Shouts; explained
"'taxation. i that thehe neffotiatloiw fell througli be.
rhe pr -cnt intention of the Vayn and up the executive commlttie believed
"'i i I'oniinittcu Is to withhold the ac Mr Wllh-ox was playing "a foxy game"
'"' d.aftluc or the revenue measure which would leave the InterburoiKh a
""'I tne legir.itu prugramine Is prac-, competitor of the city In xiihway iMra-
'. itlu I...I ..... .. . . 1 ll.in fin.l l..ntrm.l . V. .. ...... .. . ..
viiii.if I I'll mi rn, iim ulrf. .
'ilit!:ii. the committee will go forward
ti ll.e dexelopnient of Ita tentative bill
the f.w blng ready to makt. a
l't on as s-oou as It consideration
f. ' Iloue Is regarded as timely.
' wu.-r limit ,,ii the part of the lie
,i .at! against the Income and In-'
""Hartm tax provlsloim Is anticipated.
, . ' "' I'emoi ratio leaders ur con-
i f "''' any question as to the con-
ii'i'talitv of an Inheritance tnx
p'ii.j r.: easily dissipated. It Ih said
Pi din 'otfs win be thronn In the
or I M. tinitiOS.'ll hi' th. llnnnl.il.
'u. at 1 i i as loncerns the exercise
ti i 'U'. i '.'i by the Kcderal Oovern-
'i.ril' Wht 11
already has been utlllred
t) t
it ite governments.
Woolil Double Incomr T.
The present Income tax will yield
IlKomi.uim thi!, year, according to an
'.mate aLHie b.. internal Ilovenue I '"""' "bout their knowledge of the
'''i.T.fM'.ner fisbonw In the light of Sn0"t" unsigned "offer" to which the
ttt i r-U niiury survey of the returns Mnnmlttee ban attached great slKnlllcancn
''l i hine been recilved by tho Col- ' 1,8 'howlng that the Inte,borou,:li was
""nrn of Internal Keveriue. The pro- re-idy as far back m March 22. I!m. tn
"ai win h ilii.js much support among ,,ull,i ,hr suuw.'iya at a suing of $115.
1 - Imo, at'.- mi'inbeia of the Ways OOO.OOil to the city. H.ith stated Hut
Mi jiii rommlttee Is to effect the ""'- no' ,',',, " C"W of the litter,
'I'ublt B r thn revenue derived from ' nut ,nat '"nw "Imllnp to those em
h. win l,v Incieaslng the rates on I'Odled In It had been dlsMiwied by flinlr.
tl' in nni-x now listed as taxabtc. i. i man WIllcox. Neither knew that such
rmined oiiposltlon exists to the sug- n vropoaltlon had been submitted In
"tl"n that exemption be placed be- wrltlrej.
'"' th. J3.UII.I mark, at which Incomes i
r now i'4xable. Mayor lor flty On iierahlp,
Ii-n-lo? h,1r"'"t '!"lln"'nt among My recollictlon." said the Mayor,
ti,,.,, . , ., . "lui.i-
iru i; , 7 an' wml,,ke' ouKht to ,be 1
crtalir IV'r 'n,lr". exfenH0 '" .
..... .ii i aiiu liai ). it in
v.'. V. ""J '"'wevcr. that Lieader
iV liniJ "lH supporters will not be
"''rrm.ii, m insisting uikjh limiting the
"ttnu'i to thetie three sources.
S. Y. DOCTOR DIES OF TYPHUS.
I
o.d Memhrr of Mc.lco ttettef
Party Pauri Crisis.
Kt. Paso, March 20. Dr. Carlos
"afk. chief surgeon for1 the American
ting and Hetlnlns; Company In
;""'.', died at Laredo to-day of typhus
I'vrr. ,r, 0txky of jjount Blnal Hos
l'tl, New Vork, Is III of the disease,
raritraiiej at the time Dr. Husk fell
They went Into Mexico to fight
tptius for the American Smelting and
"fining (.'oinpany und are said to have
utit tho disease by breaking u tube
?' typlm-i rulturcs In their temporary
ldoralury.
rr, p,ter outxky Joined Dr. Huk In
f 'xlen about three week ago. When
"' "ll'.Uy became III he was taken
'f'm tl. tit,.ri0r of yuxWo to Laredo,
i tlm txkm border. Through a prl
if !' .''""IMti'li Dr. B. S. Uoldwater.
'rerlm.n.,t of Mount Sinai lliwpltal,
"Tried yteniay ,h)lt Vr otltlky had
"".a the tritig muj Wlu recovering.
FOP, ALL
LATER SECRET
SUBWAY OFFERS
ARE REVEALED
Shouts. Gnynor anil Wilko.v
Conferred Before St.
lames Visit.
LATE MAYOR READY
TO BE ARBITRATOR
Theodore I. Shouts, prpwldcnt of tlm
tnterborough, had dhlleulty ynsterdu
getting what Prank Moss culled th.i
"as roclatlon llbi rj." of Ills memory woi''-
I Int; along tlm lines tlm; Hie Thniiipt i
mterborough.
The committee learned of another con
ference between Mr. Shout and Mayo'
(liiynor, in which fornur ('ha.riiiaii WIW
cox of the I'ublli' Serxlcn i'ommUio,i
partlcipatt'd, 0:1 April I?. U'ln. tlv.
layn before the St. J.uiihh vIMt At
this conference, which wan ri'jiorted In
thn mlmiten of the tnt rlioroiiKh i-xi-riitlvti
cnniinlttep tin' lU'M day. May it
Oaynor onVre.1 to ait hk .irhltratur be
tween Mr. Wtl!ro iiiul Mr Shon.w.
whote iibwiiy iH'KotlatlniiH .t' 'about
to break up." Tin- pxeiutli 1 oiiuiiIMpi1
held a epeeial nipetinic two dayn nf'ei
tho l.ayiior-Willcox-f'liontK r'oiiftrptu i
To thlH niectliiB IMwIn llinv,!), an In
terboroutth .llre.-tor, mid !) Ijiticy
N,co" wert' '"vlt?il by I'rc.H'dent ttlumtn.
Unit ley VUlt n I'rr.nnnl Idle.
tt will be lecalled that when Mlrabeun
U Towns took- t'resldent ShontH down
to St. Jam to .pi Major itHMmr "
Atirll it the party went twenty-live
miles out of their nay to Mop at tin
hi. it ,.t Mr 11.. u l... 1. ..1.... 1
,,"nt SI'""its'expliili;.Hl'y..M,.r;ia.v that hi.-
memory had b-pn refre,he.l about tnat
detour by John H, fampbrll. treapiip-r
" thP tmerborouKh. another member of
thi. jiaity, Him told Mr. Shoiit" slive
iianyiot, h-oium. .Mr.
Miontu
) , ,h , "",1'""t'r
'1'"' 1f,r"nrtn-
i'b daiixhter wimtptl to k there
KulIowlllJ lha f..r. II v U'ruriU Xlf..-
coutmei
to the committee, t.-nd the
ininutei of
i meetlliK of tho expcutlve
oommltte "of the luterlKirotiKh mi April
at wmcn propoM-il pxteniili.nti and
third tracking 6t the Manhattan elpvated
vtw. .itini uii ,ic .t(.i',iiij
Frredman Letter Introduced.
A hitherto unpublished lettir of th,'
late Andrew Kreedman to A, J. County,
assistant to President Peters of the I.ont
Inland Itallroad, dated July 2t', lull, uav
Introduced. It att"'"red from thN lettir
Unit althouu-h the Mayor a few days be.
fore had boltcjl an Interborouah agree.
tnent on the subwaya at the Metropolitan
Club, he w,i irlatel) In faor of the
InterboixHigh.
Two other letters to Mr Krenlinan,
nn. fr...t. I'rul.lont hriL, .....I .l.u .1,1...
from August lielmout. were read Into
the record as tending to htiow that Mr.
f reedinan was carrying on newotiatl'ms
of Ids own In connection with the sub
ways. Mayor Mltchel and Comptroller Pren
dergaMt were the first witnesses at yes
terday's: lie.irliiLV They were called to
"ib inai ,xir. vvuicox was very frank,
I don't remember all the details. I
stood for city ownership and city build.
Ins of subways. 1 was not Interested
In building subway extensions with In
terborough money. I( don't believe In It.
I didn't believe that any one In the Hoard
of Estimate or the Public Servicn Com.
mission believed In It."
Comptroller PrendergaM said that Mr.
WlllCux nan llliunocu inn. ui oeKollll
tlons h. s carryln. "n'''j V'''''''
that In March. 1910, Mr. WIllcox told
hint that the negotiations were olT. Mr,
Trcndergast said that when lm and
Mayor Mltchel Joined In their report of
January 6. Oil. In which the unsigned
letter was referred to, hut not specitl
call), they did not know that "such an
offer had been formulated In writing."
Mr. WIllcox attended the hearing all
day.
President Shonts, the day's only other
witness, was questioned at length about
his unsigned letter to Chairman Will,
cox. Ho ald Richard Held Itogers.
general counsel to the Intrrborough, dic
tated Hi terms on a basis of a memo,
randum prepared by Mr. ShontH. which
was presented as an exhibit. This wan
dated February 21, 1 9 to, Tlm memo',
randum proposed that the company
divide with the city the surplus earnings
arising from the new extensions, which
Conftnuro on XxJit rage.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, MARCH 21. 191(5. Cotiyrlnht, IMC, Oil thr Sun Printing and I'ubHfhtitp .inundation,
CARRANZISTAS IN
BANDIT CORNERED; PERSHING CLOSING IN
Wasiiinsrloii (it-ts Rcuirt of JxS&Sii Sjafefekf jflE
Ki-rlit Plan Protocol ' '
f I I wwtFy ' -lis mtm- I nifia il HMai.'JK. I
W'rcless I'rom Mexicj
f elb cf Tro:pt' Progress
(ll'.N PKHslllMl's llEVPgi AllTHIf IV
Mllxlii'. vvlles to ('iduiilbil'". N.
M , Mn' ii '-o I'.xtendlni; soilth
vv.iril like the llnuer- of a hand,
column of I'nltiil Slule troops
nie rea.'lilng mn front here to
night to itathor In Villa. Signal
tires ale liiiiiiing on the plain near
out iMtnp mm u Ii" fr t'"' oero
plai'es which b'ft i.'ohltilbiiH to-day
Ailv.mie guatds of Hie Columbus
infantry co'iimn fached Ideleteil
I'lghtien mile- north of here last
nlBlit and an- expi-cted to arrive m
morrow. Motor lorries vvllii Mipplics
MMin will connect the base of operu-tion-.
here with the Imfder.
Aerial scnutlni; in the mountain
f.istni""'e- wit. n!d the si-archinK col
umns. IVtiimitiilcation has been es
uibllshcil l tweetl all the iones and
the basi 'Hid Isirder by wlr
liroimli .111 in., vvlrolesf, automo
bile express and ir.otnrc; i lo des
,.ath fillers.
SI: b.iiauo-i o." ihi' l'.tt Aim
Siiuiidrnn. under lomntind of Cap!
I!, I. Kotllols, arrlveil to-day to
. out in the mountains for Villa.
The machines were driven by
I.leiitM. S. C. '1. Chapman, .1. 1'..
r'.,i.l,,.i re. II. A. Dnl'glll'. T. S.
llrown, It. II. Willis and
i:. f
ilom ll. W. (1.
nth nucli.ni'.
.mrti'd.
Kilner. In th scv
has not been re
W.vMtiN'iTov, Mirch ;n.--lesi).it"he
received at the War Depirtment late
toiilghi are b. I'.v-.il in have continued.
the i pin ts fiom
batll- w in C '
ih. binder of Villa's.
I I'l.i '.'or t"ce
ctii.a; in toe ibreclloil
'iciH a! 151 Vatic
and of a p o!
of the Vine'
I.
The despatches were telephoned to :
MaJor-tSen. Scott at his home at Port
Myer. but he declined to make them
public.
I'rouosalH weto exchanged to-day be-
' tween the t'nlted States and the do facto
(ioverninetit of Mexico looking to the
I drawing up of protocol under which
' the armed forces of both countries may
pursue Villa and his bandit followers
,ua the common enemy of both nations.
The original suggestion for the pro
It ocol caiim from th" Carranza .liovern
1 tnent and wan laid before acting See
, retary of Statu Polk to-day by Car
ranza's Ambassador-deslgnale here. It
represents, according lo tho Mexican
I llmb.issy, an earnest iffort on the part
of Carrania to coopeiatn with tho United
States and to avoid friction which Is
believed ccrl.ilu to come between tho
two flovernuients If a working agree-
niftil of some kind is not arrived at.
It Is planned to have a definite, ur
rangcnient drawn up lo govern practl
i cully every contingency which may
arise In coiliiecllon with the pursuit of
Villa, such as cooperation between th
nrined forces of both C.overnineiits In
the Held, the common use of railroads,
the pasrage of troops through towim
and common assault on forttlled centres
hi which Villa and his followers might
I seel, refuge.
It Ih proposed that copies' of the
protocol should I") distributed among
the Held comniaiiilcrs of both forces so
that Un' possibility of coutllcl might
be reduced to a minimum,
Thn iiBVbtlon fiom the Mexican
it , .
x .
I'll .fi. li. 1' ra-n . .-I 1 i.. i' ii " , .n p e l.-acluttun
U. S. TROOPS IN MEXICO AND DESERT THEY ARE CROSSING
BOVK is part of a machine j'tin section
iiitreni'hed near i'alonms. Mexico, ap
proaching the inoiiiiUtiiis seen in tho
ljuckground. Note, on the right, an officer
using a range finder. Below is the same
flov.'imnelit nro the leeillt o' the ie,ii.
by tile l.'nlleil Stales lor I ui;ss.ini t
use the .M'.'xle m N r'lnvesi. i". Ita.bv i
fur tr.iuspn t.ition el' ruppllis to lien
pcndilngs base at Ci.is Claudes from i
l',l Paso. Tex To this i. quest r.urinza
has not thus far iiKieed nu mg to h s fear !
iliat content might provoke inillitu itlou
ean:'len;:,;1',':se!;r,',!;;: i. ,!(.Co1' Cano Now Fighting 300
American forces In thulr couiitiy and that I
the situation ! theiefotc lull of sonou i
h.iss blllties is fieely admitted both at
the State iJep.utineiit mid In embassy
circles.
At Ills conference with Mr Anedotid.i
tii-dn1, however, acting S t.uy I '!'
. miol, it p.nlii that from a .cl"fir -laud-lioliii
the Srant'iit of tile t.riv 1 I. tn
us.- the ra'lioid would enable Cen IVish-
lllg to expedite the w ilk nf tllj i)mI-
t'on (il'il til" efo'-i.. en ible him to shorten
I'V nay At the s line time It K autlliiii
tatlvely stated Ml Polk In :o way
fought ta bring piessure to liear.
It was Intimated, following the con
ference, that if (Jen Carranza saw (It to
refue the request the t'nlted Sl-ites
would employ nutom bile trains to pro
vision Pershing's fo.ns. The lulnelpil
objection to this expedient has been that
i a large torce would have to lie employ cd
to guard the trucks and that the piogiess
of the exM.illtlon would necessarily be
Inlet fcred with.
The War IVpart incut this afternoon
received a disturbing nHit fiom (len.
l-'mistoii telling of Mexican 1 W. W.
agitators In Nogales, Mixlco, making In
rendlnry speeches and endeavoring to
stir up the Mexicans to Invade the t'nlted
Stales and help out Villa. Half the town
of Nogales Is located on the Mexican
side and tho nt !- . n the Ameilc.in side,
so that only t lie, width of a single ttreet
divides the two.
In reply to the telegram sent hint last
ulglit concerning rcpoits rinin 1'iesliHo,
Tex., regarding the appioaeh of n baud
of Vllllstas toward I Ijluaga, opposite Umi
town, Cell. I 'llllslmi sent I lie following
despatch to tho liep.irluient this alter
iioou ; '
Col. Slliley, commanding the west.
rn Texas patrol dlstilci, after a re
cent personal Inspection at Presidio,
report us follows; "deport of dan
ger greatly exaggerated Mini Inter
view with Col. Ilojas miiiainlliig Hie
Carranza force at fijlnaga, who is
not apprehensive of attack Ills fur,-..
of 2M1 Is to be leelifon eil by 21"'
troops from Chihuahua uf I.iwuii
loyally," I icluelinieiil at Presldl'i now
one ofllcer and forty mini o( llie I''nnr
ttcnth Cavalry,
BATTLE
low trenches for the open. These guns were
criticised by United States officers at Vera
Cruz two years ago, and failed in the Villa
raid on Columbus.
OUTLAW TRAPPED BY 900
MEXICANS, GARCIA REPORTS
May
Be in Time to Aid Mexicans Mass
in North ; Americans Suspicious.
lit. I'asu, Tex., March in, According
to tlie Carranz'stas Villa Is In a comer
with tiiio s, Aiueiicau and .Mexican, clos
ing In on all sldin
Tlic Continental Divide forms a wall,
the Caleana Valley the Held over which
the American ami Mexican troiv "re ap
proaching hint. Hi hind the wall, with
the possibilities of approaching throuftt
It, Is another hand of American troops,
Thlh Is. according to ntllcl.it Infot matlon
In Mexican elides, continued by Informa
tion thioiwh American military sources.
It was announced by Carranza Consul
Andieas Carcia to-nl.ht that the Car
ran.! forces at Namlqiilpa had headed
Villa off in his rffott to I, leak thiough
tn the south atul that a hattlo was being
fought il that hour between the Napil
qulpa gal i Is, n on one side and Villa on
the other, in the vicinity of Nainlqulpa,
at the south end of the Caleana Valley,
Nine bundled I'arianzislas, under the
command of Col. Cano, opened the battle
at I .Ho P. M., according to llnse relents.
Villa has linn nun, the dcsjiiilrli to Con
sul C.aicla declared. Tho Cano troops
aie from t lie command of Cen. lailn
t.titiirre-, th" f.'ananz.i commander for
northern Mexico.
If tile Infoi IlKilloil is correct It ineanb
that the American and Mexican troops
ire ii a fair way lo iffect the capture of
l 11 r,,pl!..n I'prsliltie ll veiik , ,11 e hi II V
Ilia, fur len. Pershing, It was otllclally
admitted to-day, Is moving smil'i I nun
C.iK.i- (lianiles ill Hi" direction of Until-1
' i ura, .Hi, I sliould be almost Hi'dl of tile I
point of liatlle Should Villa win and
in, u ikc lo i n'ne'' snulhweM through the
niniiiitalns to Itablcma lie would be ll'.i.'.
' b) fie Ann nc.ins,
Conr'ul ilaiclu sta lit lie iiiiilrtslood that
thn battle was being fought In moun
tain where Villa bad retreated with mi
WITH VILLA;
vi tion photographed after leaving the shal-
at Namiquipi
Col. Dodd
forces and that the Can.. ,s..stn ! it
a dlssilvantai;.' In tills respect, but that
they largely outnumber the enemy alio
have some mountain artllltry, wiiiie
Villa lias none.
American otllcers llgute that if tin
Carranitlstas cannot defeat ur captuve
Villa, If they can hold him a few hours
Col. Pndd can t. forced manning join
the Carranzlst.iH In the hittle. Col.
Dodd had a lottery of Held artillery vv IMi
him when he left the border. Whether
he still has or not his force vvoiilu ne
more than a match for Villa's if he in
get Into the light, Americans generally
boll eve.
"The capture of Villa all depends .,n
the ability of the Cnrranzlstas to boll
him wheie he ls,v said an American of
Hcer to-night, "inilll the Americans , ui
get there."
It wan further conili moil to. day thur
an Ameilcau coliurin 1,1 t.iiiiu men 'inder
Col. Dodd Is moving l.i tlie direction of
Kl Valle, which li north of wlnie the
tigliling Ir. repotted taking place. Another
column of American Hoops Is moving In
tlie Mime dliectioii behind Col, Dodd. I
I tile Mexican fnices .lie III eiillleleiit
, tdrt'iKlh to tile south of Villa, milltaiv
omcevt. saj, lie w conudetely hemmeil in
Prior to Consul Cuiola's report of tlie
battle to. night r,eu. (ialulel Cavlra, the
Juartz rommaialvr, suld lie was In error
ye.itetday In giving It out tli.it Villi was
nt llableora, the town on tin. Il.aist
ranch. It was San Miguel de Uablcoia,
lie says, IhMcail, This pint e Is a most
WrHt of III Vallt. Villi advan I fiom
1 . ,. .... , .... ... :
tln ie to-day lo the vicinity of Nainlqulpa.
MoveiiKiu of Catianza tivops north
ward continues In large uiunbets, and to
bear out Hie claims or the Cariaiulsias
Unit the aie cooperating with the Amer
ican forces in the campaign against Villa,
iwlwlllisliindliig openly expie-Mil semi
tnent iu the past that theie Is no appnr.
CO'iflnticd on Third Vuge.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Rain or snow; warmer to-day; probably
fair to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday. 34; lowest, 19,
Detailed weather, null and nurliio reports un page 12.
MEXICO CITY PRESS
CORDIAL TO THE U.S.
l,rt'.iilcnt Wilson Is l'rnisod
for Hcspct'tinfr the Vvv
inir.s of .Mexicans.
;.".f f.iMf ir..ifi' f. Tin: Slx
Mr.vico Citv, March 20. Under Sec
tary of C'jtiimimlcation- Honlllas all-
i Hied In all interview published to-day
i'i HI th iiinrrutti that after a lonfereiu'e
wit'.. Cat: itiza and ut Cannula's d."dre
lm has revoked all concession fur build.
ii.g tailroml!. granted under the lliivrta
r.-gmip and the ciinventloii adinliiUtra
tlous. This
eleti.-e
t.ll Hi
aiiin.'i has In en fiken that prcf
n;a be ulveii to Mexican eapl
granting lailway coih-pssioi s. tt
inza's be'lef th it the railroad
ivur.il y s.ioutd be cuntrolled by
of llie
Mex nu.s.
Si-eiaiy lt.in.ll.i Kitd that lie had'
Ju". granted p. Mext.xin capitalists a
. Ml. ."-slim to build an ilectl'c lit... I.e.
twee-i Merlda and Progreso and a steam
rail'rtid ir.uii i.'ueratato to Tuxpim. '
T.e otTi.-liils loiitlnue their policy of
sivpr.s.i.g a. I but opi.tmstlc i.ews trom
no'tliern Mexico and la consequence the
excitement m Mex.co clt) has mil in-i.i-ei
Auiei.i'an ra-wspapers ale' not,
af. ivil.g exi.pt in a few belal.d cases.
S,,aic paper- have luen btnught In by
t.ave.leii, bill the alaimmg account?
mniiiineit in these have 1,. en counter
acled i,y the (act that they aie nt o'.d
dale and beeau-e ,if tne olTici.i1 oitimlsllc
n tie in tile hic.il prise.
Nn Aliieilcatis now conieniplate leav
ing the country, only a few women and
l r.lilrell liav .ng g.,ne . In response to
c.iVi grams fiini the I't.ited suites. Tip.
Amenc.iii Ihnbis-y is fully advised from
the L'nlled SI ites lecinlitg nle itu.i. '
tlon, but the nltlclals refuse to be
inn . vu w. ,1. It ,s known, howevur, that
the Anibaj-sidor has beep .qdercd t
l.-.lV'e the embassy ilo.'llluents with his
I I'len.'li hi llntlsli lollv.igue. in the re
I mote isissib'ltty of his dei.irtuie.
I he Carranza nftscl.ils deny, alarming
tumors of appnuchlng disturbances In
southern Mexico. They .ittnlbute tne
rinnots to the effoits of money specu
lators, to uiaae cuirenc dlep. The ufi'i
i lain ins. st ilin their ptevlous an
noma fluent that CoiiMUUtioiral.Ms have
token i i.ixaca city.
M.litaiy men say that owing io the
uortliein situation and llie failure o
iiegntlalions lor tile suriellder of tile
.apatista tieneral, I'acheco, coincident
With il n. I'.h lii'i'o's atiempt to ambush
Conzabs dining the peace pari.) south
or Mexico city Saturday, the Constitu
tionalists ate llkily to luteirupt the
Moieliis campaign by holding the mi
poll. Hit posllluiis areiin.l AJilsco until a '
time mole favui ible airlve- fur press
ing the advaiKe.
, The olllcial paper, ' 1'inbln, an
noilllCeH 111 bold tpe mi Its llrsl pane
that Pier-den' Wilson h is ordered
Aiin il, all troops not to occupy Mexican
interior toivus ami v'.llagis and to keep
constantly on the move.
This p.ip.r praises Mr. Wilson lor tins
action, declaring "one gatbeis that the
Aine liaiis aie i iideavorliig in all cans
to avoid whatever circiiiust.ini es might
affect in any way Hie patriotic susccpil
bllll) nl the .Mexicans."
un all sides ll'eie Is ntll'lal pral.e for
the deti I initiation nl' the l'nlled Stales to
resoect Mexican sovereignty and to te.
Irani lloni Inieivenlng.
Tlie Iiileiuiillinial coidlallly. siy tlie
,iililals, Is amply illusir iu', by the
iiripcniftit between I'nlted Slates and
1 .lexh an troops i,, eooperate in the pur.
suit of Villa. The nttleial local piess hn
n.-x '' lilnled ihnt the AniC'rlcaii lioops
have alieniv , rosseil .he rionller and
gives lllllegon's Ill'llel'S to Ml I iill'l III, I les
to loopeiate Willi llie Auier'.caiiK is ie
feiriug to siii'li troops as "may" cro-s
It firiiinciiitii publishes an Kill" a I
despi in, i i ineieliiio Mating tli.it
i lorcgoili lias ili'claii il Villa and ill hi
i 1 1 1 1 ii li ' i H im hi the Columbus raid to be
outlaws lie has issued uiithuil' in all
Mex, '.u s. hi tiriist iiilil e i .."it e Villa ami
is; in his i', iiln w I'l ;. I'pnn tht certalnt of
accurate Identification.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
GERMANS SHIFT
ATTACK; MEET
TERRIFIC FIRE
Thrust to Extreme West of
Verdun Xets Small (tain
After Hard Action.
F1U I IT FOR FORTRESS
MONTH OLD TO-DAY
Liquid Fire l'seil in Fierce
Drive Between Avoeouri
and Malancourt.
INVADERS FEE LI NU
(H'T FRENCH LINK
Xew Phase
Prince's
Seen in Crown
IH'iii'is Ahmu'
Circiiiiiuis Route.
Jf.fr.nl (.Mr lurfUil, I., Till, si s.
I'Aliii, M.ilcli '.'a. The battle of Vei .
djii. a mouth old to-morrow. entei..d
a new phase to-day when llie Crortli
Prline, appaieiitly abandonliig for t
time luliig h.s onsla'luhts against i ie
illltned ate fnrtltled appmai lies of til'
1'rriich .-troughobl, shlttnl his attack to
tile iMrein w.st or tile Veldlltl an
on tlie b'ft hank of the Mcuse
A violent infantry attack was launched
against trie J'rcucli imsltions In the etc-
lor bet ue.ii Ato l.i iniiii 1 1 and Av iui'.
It was greeted by a murderous stcr a
ot shi lis and builds from Hie 1'iui'l.
artillery, machine guns and infant.),
and in the main luolio down. Tin, oil',
clal night einuniiitilque admits, however,
'.hit tlie liininiln. iuk able to ma ,.
si ght progress
This ti"W stage of the V. riluii tll.
log lias iieeli rol'eshadnwed by Cllni'il
artlll-i y actiuns several tlui'm slnco
attacks ni th,. wcstirn bank ot 'r.e'
Mem.' I" gall. It was iisii, ted m dun t
the n.ght b.' s. veial liouis lam of Ii .
I'ullbr,, shells on the I'rencli post' mi
This had been report' tl in the alien, i
commuulqiii'' and an Infantry attacn n
been looked for. The storm, ng
utniiK us. d liquid tiro In their i ucr
agalu-t the I'iiii, li Inn h.
Micll (.eriuiiii I'lirinn I inns.
To-night's comaium,Ue sia'is th. ' ''.e
I'reach on the r part "..iiergei .,' .
botnbardeil" tin; Avocour'- lalai .i:
seetol'. When Ceriliall tlo'ije Wert '
Served III I'OI ,11.11 .Oil In i,L. Montf.' 1 '..
wood, tmrtli ot .M.il.ui. our'..
The .M il. ih, inn t-Amu out t se toi ru
parallel with it-.. Id tluiieoiirt-liie ..i.c
It Is some (II.-1. Hue to tlie west vl 1 f
Cote de I'Oie, l.e Molt llonilile, tip J(.
Koiirtus and Moiitzev ill. , all or wlioh
points hive b.eli the , hl"f lentHH ' I'l"
UCetlt Otta, k Wist Ot the Mellse.
The plevaillng th.oiy h-,' !. ; . .:,
having failed .11 the main to j m-;, 't
lines any I'uiti.er d.re. tly m fio ,' i.
northwestern V. rdun forts a ml . :m ,
seiles of eiwtly a'tacl'S. the I'rimn T'- t.'.--Is
now .'li, Ie. iv oruig to bleak Hit., .'ii : ,
.1 I 11 Cll.t, HI.- route, Hull to pi -.. ,l!,r
'east I IHler Oliselveis pofnteil , it .1
nigh', hi'Wevei, that Mll-l.inli.il adv : e
south of Avocoiiit would s, r.ii-1,
mill. ice the ' rdtm-Mi in hnn'.l-r ' -railway,
tlie only avenue of .scai" w-s.
lor tile l-'ten,a Verdllli nriiu
Tlie Cet man heavy guns continued '
day to rammer tlie l'Veiuh def ,n
the Hols lloutrit r gion. Tliev a'-.i n.
gall to bombard Hill lint, .i.i.f " v b-tw.-eii
Malaiu'ouil and I Vine.
Tlie i'telllh altllleiy iliftro.'. ' ''.
nia'i trim lies iinrtheast of I... I nir de
Par s and l,a Haute Cln v.iii 'hee i '.
Argnnnc.
tieriiiiins I'iiii 1.1 I., llxiend rrnrit.
The Light conilllllliiqlle follow f
1 1. the Argoniie our aslilb ,
lM)i.l Co tm. HI tieiiches uorthi.'s' oi
I. e Voltr de Palls Hid l.a Halite Che
v,it,'hee A destrii. tlv, til. a-.,.'
the eliem.v wolks as olo l I; i'l
escaping of a consldei al'l' volu ce ,f
SIllpllUlolls g.l-es flolll the tanks 'P
stro.v vd by our liell
e Isimbaiib I eioi g, I, call Ih
lor from Vvncoiirt io .lal.incoii-t n'id
dispel s, , e iiein giotips aiipli iiiir ic
polt.il to In foiuiilig ninth of I '
Moiitlalicon w I
si of the Mellse the l P rill, ins u
the nurse of the ilav alter an i lit n -
lioinbaiilmetit with In , ivy calilue .In Is
made in attack m an .ill. nil, 1 to ,-
tend tl.elr l'inllt A hew enelnv dlvls
i.vplitly biniight up from a df 1
point ot the flout launch, d a vcr
lent attack, ,u'c, inp n.le.l by the th i
lug nt liquid Hit, aga.usf mir p.itiin'
between Avoeouri and Malaiicnii. I. n
curtain tlie and on. machine i. inf .
well iis our li. t" i lit r x Indicted -. i .
losses upon the ei.emv and liro'-.e '
ftort of tlie ass illahts. who w, e a. '
lo make i ill 1 x slight progn-s , i
polni of tlie I rout vv In, b t lo v n 1. 1
In the east, III pall .il' Hi, l .'
I'ouit wood tin ie wa a viob" I 1 . ,"
baiduiilit against Hill It'll and the
gion of the Itols I'.ourt ii-.
The afternoon i oiiiiuuiiiqu'' rcp"i"i .'i'
misuci'psstul minor atta.k by ih. !.
mans on the 1'n iicii positions at Cut.- t
I'olvic. Tile Vaux leg, on was ag.i I lav
scene of Intel mltteiit aitillerv ai I' .-
Tin I'leni'h alteinnnii ci,iiue,iiii.i."
said.
West of Hie .Mell-i' the iliein' i
llvered a I m, 1 1 1 1 j. 1 1 1 1 1 1 ii' , 1 nl i.ii'si'i
,'lble vtoleliie III III'' l.glnli soiph ,
Mai. un mill. Ca-l ot the river. .'It"
a piipntalol tile limit the i o i in ,.
Iltlllel'. Ill' eliem.v diliveleil ng ill
ollr po-llliills lit the Cole lie I'olMi'
sliiull .ill.ii I- which resold il ii i '.-
plele failiiic." Tliein lias In . n no m'v
II. lt I. lit biillllillldllli'llt III tile legmil
inc..
la Hie W'oevii' the lilghl pas... I
qqlellv with the ixieplion "f a fa,''"
Piilletl i aimoiiailiiig ai l.es llpaiui.
Tlieie ! nothtiik nl linpoi lam e to it
poll ll,, ill Hie leinaiuilei' nf Hu l','i,
FUKSCU PlilVK AT VM'X.
l.criiifiii Itepoi't "ii lliioiieiil
lie I Willi Heavy Losses,
(Hi, in, in London, March 20.- Af'iv
licatquattcrs Issued tho following stu'n-
mi
mi
. , . ,:..c ? r. vv. i-.
MitfiliflMHiH
