fyr .trTfwwnww.- vrmvr 'ywiww M ) ipffBywpfp(ypyjqp
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
iJltintv
Jbimtm
NIGHT
EXTRA
jU
161
rillLADELPIIIA, TU33SDAY, MAHOII 21, 191G.
Cormiont, 1018, r tiir Pobuo Ltoar. Commsii.
PRIOB ONE CENT
wmu Mwmmmtmmwfimmtmtm
JlCTORY IN NORTH SEA FIGHT
CLAIMED BY GERMANS AND
BRITISH; DESTROYERS CLASH
ion'don Asserts Four English Ships
Chase Three Teuton Craft Back to
Base at Zeebrugge in Running
Fight Off Belgian Coast
Berlin Says Britons Fled When Torpedoboats Were
W ot,mb- r Sholls Arlinif. FVir's TTiro Dirl Snmo
Damage English Reports Four Sailors Were
I, wounaea u-isoacs uit sweuen
GERMAN AND BRITISH DESTROYERS IN FIGHT OFF BELGIUM
LONDON, Mnrch 21.
Tkroo Herman tornedo dostrovors wcro defeated in a runninc bnttlc
iWth four British vessels of the same typo off the Belgian coast on Monday.
Official announcement ot the imuic, the nrst sea clash in the Worth sea ior
ainy months, was issued by the Admiralty today.
' The German destroyers lieu to the uerman naval case established at
ecbrugge, but two of them were hit by shots from the pursuing British
essels. Four British sailors were wounded.
The Admirnljty'3 statement follows:
Yesterday morning four British destroyers sighted three Ger
man destroyers off the Belgian coast The Germans immediately
turned and ran for Zeebrugge, chased by us. Shots wore exchanged
during a running fight. Two of the enemy's boats were hit. Our
casualties were four wounded.
The German Admiralty, in an official statement telegrnphed hero this
iftemoon, reported that German gunners made several direct hits on the
British destroyers in the engagement. The British destroyers fled, according
the" German statement.
BERLIN, March 21. German destroyers defeated British destroyers
Jin a natal battle off the coast of Belgium yesterday, the Admiralty an-
iQUncgd today. After several direct hits by the German gunners the enemy
Withdrew from the engagement, the official statement says.
The Admiralty's official statement follows:
Yesterday, off Flanders, n fight, in which we were successful,
occurred between three German torpedo destroyers and five English
destroyers. The enemy broke off the engagement after he had
received several direct hits. He steamed out of sight at full speed.
We suffered no important damage.
COPENHAGEN, March 21. A number of British submarines have been
sighted south of the Cattegat, says the Dagens Nyheter. The presence of
fee British war craft off the Swedish coast caused a sensation in Sweden.
A" large flotilla of German torpedoboats passed through the sound this
horning steaming northward.
RUSSIANS' WIN
ON BOTH ENDS
OF EAST DRIVE
Won Hiridenburg Beaten
ana Ketiring in JNortn,
Berlin Dispatch Admits
'
ICTORY IN GALICIA
LOKDON. March 21 Distinct Russian
jjctorles at lioth ends of the 800-mlle
ttern battle front are reported this after
noon.
-The battering: of heavy Russian rums
Wltist von Hludeuburg'H front In the
&Qrth find fnvfal ttin n..mnnii in Yvltli.
i. 4rw from a salient south of Nnrocz
"ke. The German War Ofrtee admitted
.tie retirement In an official statement
tkU afternoon, declaring a retrcnt was
Mcessary to avoid annihilation of Germai
goopa by the encircling; fire of the SlaVB.
'General Ivllrnnntkln Tlusslnn pfim.
manier-liKhtef in the Japanese war. com
Ijmtnded the army that forced the German
IMllrement
BtA- feW hniim Anlla. ffi.iin nilmlsalAn
IfrOm thf. AllBlati IVni. imnA n. lm-
lUul --...,, (IU VIIIILa Ui ... mm-
Sn ? Rus3la" victory In southeastern
&?' rongy fortified Uscleczvo bridge-
'JAU4 nniiUfnn nn Aiisiln.i Huturiirl
IVwurt six months of heavy fighting-, was
;,juirendered to the Russians after a dea.
! r" eeven hours' artillery and Infantry
ffjTh German War Omce admitted that
K.' Ius"lana are making heavy attacks
Vi? wlde 'ront In the Illga-Dvinsk sec
lW,9splte heavy losses. It Is consld
KrM certain here that the power of the
li v.UB!"an onensive will force the witn
rJJ2 . ot 0e"an troops from the west
IJ front and possibly end the Verdun
'Followlncr la .h . IW. Afflnlnl
Igrman report;
W TJu Rusians are extending" their at
Jclta to the northernmost end of the,
tfront Smith nt nitwn i,i.. whm fo.
pulsed with sanguinary losses and
iww i on the Duna River (Dvlna) and
B"! of Jakobstadt.
B Strong- reconnoiterng detachments
UVanCed flmlnnt th,. Ciatinn ll,i
Bwrthwest of Postavy and between
riaroc Lake and Wlsznlnw T.nk and
!?'llV ered attacks both day and night!
I'd a"e t achleva any success,
3 CaU6a nf tha iHalnnra luhlxh H
IPnjtruded. our Ballant on the front
uvuin of Lake Naroci was withdrawn
e lew VitiH. .. i.. i
Ift'ttU ot Bltanlckl In order to avoid
circling- lire of the enemy.
THE WEATHER
FORKHA ST
WK Philadelphia and vicinity
KSwalty cloudy and somewhat
mmtntf toniaht ami Wednesday
fpytt variable winds.
GERMANS SWEEP '
FOES FROM WOOD
WEST OF MEUSE
French Admit Loss of Po
sitions at Malancourt,
Northwest of Verdun
iWT&fTiXi -JWrTSTORrayttStKTOSsa j-sra--a
4..i:VAW:J&t
0
.&itj
Photo ly IntcrnntlonnI Film Scrvlco,
The picture reveals a deck scene on one of the German destroyers hnving Zeebrugge. Belgium, as a bnse.
Three of these vessels arc reported to have engaged four British destroyers. Each side declares the other
fled. Four British sailors were wounded.
TEUTONS SUFFER MUCH
XOST AND FOUND
GSHt"-. WU-ttlled. entlmaa.' watch
vum laltUU It C. H . ltweo
Cheutniit ! tn ll.m.l at
lUiSh' ."teJ'S1" I"al t Station In a
tZa' ' ,W5.Brm Reward If returned
S5S-SL j I
nfe?NiL.?.,NflI-o'. thret-itooe diamond
iSaiiti Tf!;. i'ra. tt 1HU yeliuaf la i
fStsrkft Vfir. 4s vh unity or vtn ana
caWOT J7tin phooe Tlosi iiui W.
t WMl 2-ouixI .VJ u l'ato.18
BERLIN, March 21.
All the- French positions, northeast of
Avocourt wood have been captured by
storm by the Germans, It was officially
announced today by the German War
Office. "
The Germans captured 32 officers nnd
2500 men there. Counter-attacks by the
French were unsuccessful:
Avocourt wood lies at the southeastern
edge of Malancourt forest, about seven
miles northwest of Verdun on the west
bank of the Meuse.
Two of the captured officers .were com
manders of regiments.
Following Is the text of the official re
port: West of the Meuse Iluvarlan regiments
and battalions of the Wurtemberg land-
wehr. after careful preparations, captured
by storm the entire position of the French
northeast of Avocourt. In addition to
considerable losses the enemy lost 32 offi
cers and more than 2500 men In prisoners.
All were unwounded. Two of the officers
were commanders of regiments. We also
captured much war material.
Counter-attacks failed to bring the
enemy any advantage. On the contrary,
we Inflicted serious losses upon him.
East of the Meuse the positions are un
changed. PARIS, March 21. The terrific attacks
of the Germans against the French posi
tions In Malancourt woods, northwest of
Verdun, were continued throughout the
night,
From their new positions In the eastern
part of the wood the Germans launched
violent assaults against the French lines
In the southeastern part, known as Ava
court wood, which they finally succeeded
In taking, although they suffered enormous
The Germans were kept by the furious
fire of the French artillery from debouch
ing and the curtains of fire which were
launched against them withered their
ranks.
(Malancourt wood Is about seven miles
northwest of Verdun, on the west bank of
the Meuse.)
The text of the official communique
follows: ,,..,
Despite the seere losses inflicted
1W our fire, the enepny succeeded after
a hand-to-hand battle In canturingr
the southeastern part of Malancourt
woods, which we occupied and which
bore the name Bols P'Avooourt
(Avocourt wood). All the efforts of
the enemy to debouch from the woods
were checked.
The night was quiet In the other
sectors of the Verdun region.
VON TIRPITZ'S BRAIN SHIPWRECKED
ON WOE'S ROCKS BY U-BOAT HORRORS
By WILLIAM G. SHEPHERD
PARIS, March 21. Admiral von Tirpitz lias become a physical and
mental wreck by brooding over the deaths of scores of his closest friends
in the German navy, according to reports in gcnernl circulation in diplo
matic and military circles in Luzerne nnd Berne.
A high Swiss military authority, who credits the reports, gave me
some of the information that has reached him recently, just before I
left Berne.
"Von Tirpitz," he said, "resembles in sensitiveness the great Japanese
military leader, who, overwhelmed by the memory of vast losses of
Japanese soldiers he sent against Port Arthur, committed suicide upon
the death of the late Japanese Emperor.
"Von Tirpitz has died n thousand deaths since the war began. He
has bade farewell to hundreds of splendid young submarine officers, who
went out to perish miserably under the water. The code among German
submariners requires that they shoot themselves when the situation of
their U-boat becomes hopeless. Von Tirpitz has pictured to himself
for such is the nature of his mentality too many terrible underwater
scenes involving his friends. It is known beyond a doubt that von Tirpitz
felt himself living in a world of horrors. Even the Kaiser himself was
unable to cnlm his self-reproach.
"German military men say the Lusitania incident was the beginning
of von Tirpitz's breakdown. He did not visit the Admiralty offices for
thrpo flnvs after the liner and its hclnlcss human cargo went down. Each
LLjiovv-sinking of passenger bpatjmlyjncrfiaacd hisyepnssion..Hia sub-
rines unless von Tirpitz demanded to know the whereabouts of such and
such an undersea boat.
"The strain became too much. Both the foreign and German news
papersthe latter boastingly connected the name of von Tirpitz with
submarine horrors. The thing became too personal. Von Tirpitz was a
nnn of magnificent physique beforo the war, but it simply broke him
down."
Children March from Burning School
LANCASTER, Pa. March 21 Fire
this morning In the basement of the New
Street Public School Building started from
a heater Putting Into, effect the Ore drill
the teachers. Miss Florence Man. Sarah.
Hoak. Edith Cooper and Catherine Brown,
marshalled the 200 children la safety front
IM building;, which isfas saved by th fire
men's timely arrive!.
176 METHODIST
PASTORS CERTAIN
TO HOLD PLACES
Bishop Berry Announces
There Will Be 148 Pos
sible Changes
FULL LIST TOMORROW
Several Important changes In the Phila
delphia Conference of the Methodist Kpi
copal Church became known today while
Ilishop Derry and his cabinet. In executive
session, were making appointments at St.
James" Church, Olney.
The Itev. Dr. O. Ulckley Burns, pastor
of the Calvary Church, will be appointed
superintendent of tho North District. He
will be succeeded by tho Ilev. Dr. K t
Helm, of the Central cnurcn. "'
Barre, who. In turn, will be succeeded by
tho Rev. William It. Ltndeniuth. of the
Pottavllle Church. The Rev. William Q.
Bennett, superintendent of the Anthracite
Mission, will succeed the Ilev. Doctor
Llndemuth. . ,. .
The Rev. Dr. J. G- Wilson, brother of
Director Wilson, will become a district
superintendent, It was said on good au
thority. His appointment as a bishop at,
the General Conference Is regarded ns
probable, His pastorate, the Union Church,
will be taken by the Rev. Dr. J. G. Blck
erton. superintendent of city mission work.
The Rev. Dr. George II, Bickley, retlr
Ing superintendent of the North district,
will Bucceed the Rev. Dr. Bickerton as
head of the missions.
The Rev. Dr. Frank P. Parkin, retiring
superintendent of the Central district, will
succeed the Rev. Dr. W. O. Jones as pastor
of the Grace Church, It was learned. The
latter will become pastor of the Cooper
Memorial Church, succeeding the Rev. C.
U. Gaill.
Another man slated for a district super
Intendency Is the Rev. Dr. George W. Hen
son, campaign manager of the Conference
Claimants' Fund, who will be succeeded by
the Rev, Dr. J. D. C. Hanna. pastor of the
Twenty-ninth Street Church.
The Rev. Doctor Parkin announced to
friends that he had declined an offer from
the Central Cfturch,. Wllkes-Barre. to go
to the Grace Church. A salary of 14000
a year la attached to the Wllkes-Barre
pastorate.
One hundred and forty-eight possible
changes In pastorates, four changes In dls
stlct superintendents and two changes In
the special field were announced today.
The list of clergymen who will remain
in their present pulpits was announced
by the Bishop. There are 176 of these,
besides II who will remain In their pres
ent charges In the special detached Held.
Four of the district superintendents will
be replaced, the only one certain to re
main In his present .position being the
Rev. Dr. George W. Iier, of the North
west District.
So large became the crowd of laymen
eagerly seeking Information as to prob
able changes In their churches that a
detail of policemen was hurried to the
church, from tBe 35tl district station. This
was done as a precautionary measure on
request of the clergymen. The church
MAY0R.AMAZED
TO FIND TRANSIT
PUN IS NOT OUT
Thought Twining Would
Have Made It Public
by This Time
HE HAS A "COL. HOUSE"
JCaUntI S Bl Colamn
Mayor Smith Talks
on $86,800,000 Loan
"I expect smooth sailing with
the loan bill."
"I have an agent investigating
finances in other cities."
"I have not lenrned that Sena
tors Penrose and McNichol are
using delaying tactics."
"References to the 'Vare power'
in the loan situation are political."
"I have no interest in the po
litical side of the loan bill."
"Mr. Seger in seeking to learn
the cost of tho lonn to the people
is actuated only by the best of
reasons and not at all by politics."
"When Director Twining gives
out his transit report any child
can understand it."
"Mr. Connelly has not been ask
ed for a Jegal opinion on the loan."
"Many lawyers have told me
that no 'enabling legislation' is
needed."
"I don't believe the loan will be
attacked because of any omission
of municipal improvements. I be
lieve all were included."
"I don't, think the people of out
lying wards should kick on the
transit item until everything is
made clear."
VILLA ELUDES
FOE AND GAINS
HILLS, IS FEAR
Outlaw Bands Give Pur
suers the Slip, Report
at El Paso
REPORTED GOING NORTH
Possible He Has Not Yet Won
Mountains U. S. Forces
Close In
Mayor Smith had several things to say
when he got back today from his vaca
tion at Augusta, Ga.
They Included his expressed surprise
that Director Twining had not given out
for public consideration the transit plans;
a statement that the city's financial pol
icy for many years had been a cowardly
evasion of public needs; a foreshadowing
of an Increased tax rate. The transit and
financial programs of the city would both
be settled In a, few days, he said.
On the Broad street subway question
the Mayor "hedged." He seemed much
more willing to talk about financial prob
lems than about transit problems.
HE HAS A "COLONEL HOUS&"
He told hqw for weeks past he has
had In his personal employ an agent,
whose business it has been to Investigate
how other cities pay their bills. This
"Colonel House" of Philadelphia, thought
to be George Washington Hicks, statis
tician under Mayor Reyburn. but whose
Identity is being kept secret by his em
ployer, has been in many of the major
EL PASO, Tex., March 21. Gen
eral Pershing advised his Columbus
headquarters by wireless today that
Carranza troops yesterday adminis
tered a severe defeat to Villa's forces.
Villa was reported in Pershing's radio
messages io have retreated into the
Santa Clara Mountains.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., March 21.
The army quartermaster at Columbus
reported this forenoon that 27 auto
trucks had been sent forward into
Mexico yesterday and that 27 more
were ready to leave at once. Indica
tions arc that it will soon be possible
to send forward all the supplies that
can be handled at Columbus.
Latest reports from El Paso indi
cate that Francisco Villa, hunted by
Mexican and American forces, has
escaped the net in tho Namiquipa re:
gion and has gained safety in the
Sierra Madres.
Communications have been cut off
between the Carranza headquarters
in Juarez and the troops reported to
be moving on the outlaws. Neither
has word been received since early
today from the American forces mov
ing southward to block escape of
Villistas.
Confirmation of the reports to El
Paso is lacking. If Villa has not yet
gained tho mountain fastnesses, the
situation, based on this morning's ad
vices is that he is fleeing northward
after having been beaten by Car
ranzistas at Namiquipa and Las
Cruees and that he is fast moving
into the path of the American forces.
In that case, his escape is cut off.
It is stated that all the mountain
passes to the Sonora District on the
west are guarded strongly by com
mands under General Calles, who de
clares that it is utterly impossible for
Villa to enter Sonora,
It is possible that Villa might
have escaped toward the east, but his
course has more likely bqen west
ward to the country he knows best.
The United States, after a meeting
of the President's Cabinet today, de
cided to accept the Carranza pro
posals for a protocol the terms of
Continued on Tare Fire, Column One
TOBACCO FRAUDS ROB
NATION OF MILLIONS
Indictments Against Hundreds
of Manufacturers
Expected
Continued on I'ojo l'lttecn. Column Two
WASHINGTON, March II. Nation
wide tobacco frauds, by which the Gov
ernment has been swindled out of many
millions of dollars in revenues, have been
uncovered by agents of the Treasury De
partment, it was announced today.
Indictments against hundreds of tobacco
manufacturers, warehouse proprietors and
distributors of all classes can be ex
pected in the near future, it was said.
Investigations now are being conducted
In nearly eery big city in the country
and are revealing instances of defrauding
of the Government w bleb, are appalling.
, Raids by Internal revenue agents In
these cities are to be made soon. Officials,
t while, admitting that frauds had bean un-
covered, were reticent concerning details.
ALLIES' WARSHIPS CONTINUE TO SHELL DARDANELLES
CONSTANTINOPLE, Mnrch 21. That Allied wnrshlps are still bombarding
tho Turkish defenses on the Dardanelles Intermittently Is shown by tho fol
lowing olllclnl statement Issued hero today: "On tho afternoon of March 19
a torpedoboat nnd n cruiser shelled tho neighborhood of Scd-el-Bnhr and Teklto
nurnti. The bombardment was unsuccessful. A British division with two
machine biiiis advanced In the direction of El Salle, north of Sheik Hosman,
nnd was attacked by our troops. Tho enemy fled."
KILLED MAN FOR CRITICISING WILSON
Resenting aw nttnek on President Wilson's Mexican policy, Marcus Arsorls
shot nnd killed his friend, Gustavo Zellls, whllo they, were preparlnB for work
today. Arpcrls surrendered to tho police.
RUSSIANS CLOSE TO GREAT VICTORY IN TURKEY
LONDON, March 21. A dispatch transmitted by tho Itomo vlrcles3 today
pays:, "Tho occupation of Troblzond, Mosul, Bagdad, Kalputh and Dlarkcbr, la
Turkey, by Russian forces of Qrnndo Duko Nicholas is lmmlnont." (Occupa
tion of tho cities mentioned In tho Rome wireless telegram would give tho
Russians complcto control of Armenia nnd Mesopotamia, cut tho Constantinople
Bagdad lino of communication nnd doom tho Turkish army that hag been
fighting the British In tho Persian Gulf theatre of war.
ANTHRACITE SHIPPING RATES UNREASONABLE
WASHINGTON, March 21. Anthracite rates from the Beaver Brook and
Coleralne collieries, In tho Lehigh district of Pennsylvania, to Elizabeth, N. X,
for transshipment by wnter were held unreasonable today by the Interstato
Commerce Commission In tho cascof Wetson, Dodson & Co. against the Central
Railroad of NoW Jersey. Tho complalnnnts charged they were forced to pay
a rato of $1.55 on prepared sizes of nnthraclto coal and $1.40 on pea sizes on
shipments aggregating 47,000 gross tons. The Commission held that reason
able rates for the service would have been $1.45 for prepared and $1.35 for
pea sizes, and ordered reparation to the shippers on basis of these ratcB.
GREECE ANNEXES EPIRUS, ROME HEARS
ROME, March 21. Advices received hero from Athens that a royal decree
has been issued proclaiming the annexation of Northern Eplrus, Albania, to
Greece are causing some concern, the annexation being regarded In official
circles as a violation of the decision of the London conference concerning
Albania.
A dispatch from Athens March 8 said Greece had decided to proceed to tho
complete financial and administrative assimilation of the provinces of Northern
Eplrus, Deputies from which had already been seated In the Greek Chamber.
MRS. ASQUITH'S LIBEL SUIT SETTLED
LONDON, March 21, The libel suit of Mrs. Herbert Asqulth, wife of tha
Premier, against the Globe was settled today. The suit was brought on account
of publication by the Globe of statements that Mrs. Asqulth had visited German
prisoners of war confined at Donnlngton Hall and had sent presents to them.
When the case was called today announcement was made that the Globa ha3
consented to judgment for 1000 ($5000) and costs.
TURKISH AVIATORS SHELL KUT-EL-AMARA
CONSTANTINOPLE, March 21, The Turkish War Ottlco Issued last night
the following statement: "A Turkish aeroplane threw bombs on Kut-el-Amara.
On Saturday, In an engagement with the enemy In the neighborhood of the Sue
Canal, we captured Ave Indians."
CENSOR LEAVES ONLY "ADS" IN FRENCH PAPER
PARIS, March 31, All records of the newspaper censorship have been sur
passed by No. 1005 of, tho Toulouse Ecole Laique, a four-page weekly, of which
three and three-quarters pages are entirely blank, only a few lines of advertise
ments 'remaining. On the day after It was tasgA the editor received this tele
gram, signed "Old Subscriber"; ''ContlnuiMBur magnificent campaign. You
have my enthuslastio support."
f blank, c
uuHpur
REICHSTAG ADVANCES BUDGET TO THIRD READING
LONDON, March 21. The German Reichstag; has voted the third reading
of the budget, says a Reuter dispatch from Amsterdam. The feature of the)
budget Is the special war tax. This tax, as stated by Dr. Karl Heltferlcb, Sec
retary of the Imperial Treasury, before the Reichstag last week, is necessary to
meet a deficit of 480,000,0(10 marks ($120,000,000) caused by the increase of
Interest on the public debt The new tajc is expeoted to produce 10,000,000 marks
($2,500,000) a week.
LONDON JEWEL THIEVES GE.T 100,000 HAUL
LONDON, March 21. The biggest robbery In London for a long time wa
discovered today wh-n It was learned that the Gyde Company oa Warwteic jrtrwt
had been robbed of mo.-o than f 20.000 ($100,000) worth of mounted and muwwt4
diamonds, pearls, sapphires and rubles. The thieves brought ao oiya.ctl'W
apparatus in two cases weighing respectively 300: and 300 pounds a$ LurceU yut
tht locks la the eafea ia th store,
" QUICK NEWS
ELECTRIC COMPANY GIVES BONUS TO EMPLOYES
SCHKNECTADY. N. Y.. March 21. Theloenernl Electric Com
pany toilny nnhouiiceil a bonus of 5 per cent, on Its enrnlngs to nil
employes who have been with the company five years. This means
n ilisttibution of .3.000,000 (o $5,000,000.
NATIONAL CONVENTION CHAIRMAN NOT NAMED ,
CUICAGOt-Mnlch 21. -The subcommittee of the Republican Na
ttounl Committee today adjourned without naming a temporary chair
nan for the national convention which begins here June 7. Tho nub
tumuiittce will meet ttgniu In April to complete arrangements for
i ui convention.
RUSSIANS CAPTURE ISPAHAN IN PERSIAN DRIVE
PETROGRAD, Marcli 21. The enpturo of Ispahan, tho Important Persia
town which becamo tho goal of tho Russians following tho capture of Klrmon
shah, Is nnnounccd In on ofTldnl dispatch received from Teheran today. The;
Russian forces entered Ishpnhan on Sunday.
$450,000 RAISED FOR EPISCOPAL FUND
Nearly half tho $1,000,000 pledged by the Episcopal Diocese of Pennsylvania
to the $5,000,000 general pension fund has been raised by tho church pension
fund committee, according to a report made nt the home of Charlton Yarnjtll.
The committee has raised $450,000 and expects to complcto tho fund within a fow
months.
DR. SPIERS ACCEPTS CHAIR AT COLUMBIA
Dr. A. G. H. Spiers, assoclato professor of Romance languages at Haver,
ford College, has accepted the chnlr of French as head of-.thcr-ColJese-Depart.
ment of Columbia University. Doctor Spiors prepared at Penn Charlor, took a
piominent part In activities there. He won his doctor's degree at Harvard in
1S09 after having studied abroad. In the fall of tho same year ho went to
Haverford.
KAISER'S CORFU PALACE NOW A HOSPITAL
ATHENS, Mnrch 21. The Kaiser's villa on Corfu Island, which was seized
by tho French when they landed on the Island, has been converted Into a hos
pital. There aro 120,000 newly equipped Serbian soldiers at Corfu waiting
to start to Salonlca.
FRENCH HERO AT VERDUN TAUGHT IN THIS CITY
Lieutenant Roije Froument. a former teacher of French In Philadelphia,
has been decorated by the French War Oftlco for gallantry on .the field of battle
before Verdun, according to an official communique received by his wife today
at 1605 Green street. Froument, who enlisted at the beginning of tho war as
a corporal. Is now In the thick of the fighting nrnund Verdun.
