'cs^f-r;1 IFh |>ttTlflY SsfsriP B ''Z^ZIT I
sss Vfllv Xiiviuuu _., :
ILMINU > :? YORK STOCKS IVAGE IB. * ' Dml,T *w,? ? ?
No. 20.264. 7 WASHINGTON, D. C., TUESDAY, MAffCH 21, 1916-TWENTY PAGES. *** * ONE CENT.
AUSTRIANS FORCED
BACK UNDER HEAVY
RUSSIAN ATTACKS
#
' Evacuate Bridgehead, Northwest
of Uscieczko. Abandoning'Their
Transports.
ABLE TO BREAK WAY
THROUGH FOE'S POSITIONS
Only Means of Escaping Capture. 1
According to Advices
From Vienna.
I
RUSSIANS CLAIM TOWNS
Velikoieselo and Zanapsez in SlavHands?Capture
of Trenches
and Repulses for Enemy
Claimed.
I
LONDON. March 21.?Aus-i
!
trian forces, operating northwest j
oi Lscieczko, on the Dniester!
river, near the Bukowina border.!
I
were forced by the pressure of the j
Russians to evacuate the bridge- j
head fortifications and to aban-1
don their transports. Under cover ! j
of night they succeeded in reach- {.
ing the Austrian advance posts):
northwest 01* Zale Szczyky, north!'
of Czernowitz, according to the
Austrian official statement issued
today.
A dispatch from Berlin says J1
that a great concentration of I
Russian troops is occurring in
southern Poland. It is supposed
that the Russians are preparing
an attack on the line from Czartorysk
to.Kovcl.
Break Through Russians.
Tito Austrian statement pays a tribute
of admiration to the bravery of
the Austrian troops, who grave way
only on account of the superior
strength of the Russian attacking
forces Jt ?atlds that the only means ]
Wt to the Austrians to avoi-J capture
was to break through the Russian po- t
sitfons at Uscieczko. and this they did is
with complete success. '
The Russian offensive which began
Friday is. according to dispatches from the
eastern headquarters to Berlin, evi- j \
dently a serious attempt to relieve the i
pressure at Verdun. Between Rakes <
l>reswiaty and Wichnevskie the artil- ]
lery began range finding Friday, and j
infantry attacks began Saturday j
morning in strong force on all parts j
of this section of the front. 1
Attomnt Snrnris# Attarke 1
Northward of Postavy and at several
other points heavy divisions attempted
- rp**ise attacks at dawn without ari-Mery
preparation. but were easily repulsed,
according to Berlin. Two hours .
later the Russian artillery began shell- j
it:g the German positions furiously, es- ;
? southward of Wichnevskie J
ake :>iid northward of I'ostavy. Nev- !
e. theless. the results of this drum fire I
vv-re remarkably slight.
Thereupon the Russian infantry j
rushed forward in thick masses to.
w ithin range of the withering fire of i
the German machine guns, which!
played terrible havoc with them. The {
'Cussians fell in'heaps. None of them j
. ?d to rea? h ih?- German entangle- I '
ejitj.. although the lines range only I
ifween ?0 and 400 yards, according to!'
Berlin. i
3.000 Russ Dead Counted. ?
i
So jihward of Narorz, where 1he Ger- <
n . i line bends, making flank fire pos- *
s>bh. :',.?>? .? Russian 'lead were counted.
The Russians continued their attacks |
there all day, but matte no further seri- j
us attack at I'ostavy, after their first 3
repulse. Notwithstanding this deter- 11
mined fighting the reports say that the!
Russians are showing less of their former !
recklessness in sacrificing troops.
Th<? German losses are described In |
Herlin as astonishingly slight, and the I ,
spirits of the troops are excellent, there
being a sense of relief in the serious 1
work, after a long period of inactivity. 1
Austrian Statement.
The Austrian statement follows:
"After six months of brave defense, j
the bridge fortifications, northwest of j
V'scie< zke collapsed Sunday evening j
I snd were evacuated. Although the1}
Kussians succeeded in the morning in j
causing by means of explosions &
breach 100 meters w ide, the garrison, I
v.h??h was attacked by forces eight-'
fold superior, held out seven hours i
longer, not withstanding ail losses, in!
the fa? e of the most violent artillery !
a rid infantry fire. It was not until 5 1
o'clock in the afternoon that the commanding
officer. Col. Pflenckh, deter- ;
mined to evacuate the destroyed fortitt- !
( h t sons.
Smallei detachments and the wound- 1
. 11 ??? reached the south bank of^ the :
)>ticiater in boats. Soon, however, it j
as necessary to abandon the trans- \
l>orfs under the concentric fire of the I
* iinii).
ih-.rt- remained for our brave ?roops,
. 11.posed of emperor's dragoons and *
only one way to escape cap- !
t t. They were under the necessity Jhf j
tag through Cscitcako, which |
v. - ??? *.gly occupied by the enemy, j
i . . ensconced on 'tie heights
I. of Zale Szczyky.
March Through Position.
"Tin* march directly through the ;
e: i-'v.v s iwsitlon sun ceded. i'rider
< : of the night ?*ol. Pllanckh led his troops
t*? ?>ur advanced posts
i . . h of Zai* Kzczyky, where he ari
? > early Monday Moral rig.
J In Imt'les for bridge fortifications
; tfgdentko will remain for wi time a
g'mrious i>ag?* in the annuals of our
?, -mi :."
* Russian Statement.
T'.te Russian official statement from
general h? ;ol??uarters. issued late yesterday,
reads:
Western ? Russian) front: A Gerf
man detachment attempted to penetrate
our lines in the region of l^ake
Kanger. but was dispersed by our fire,
There have been lively artillery and
infantry engagements in several sections
to the south of the Dvinsk district.
"We repulsed with our fire enemy
attempts south of Lake Dreswiaty. Wp
stormed and captured Velikoieselo east
of the town of Tveretch. To the south
of the same town we captured twc
machine guns while repulsing enemy
attacks.
"Our troops occupied the village ol
Zanapscz and a section of the enemy
trenches near the village of Ostrovlianj
after an engagement between lakes
Xarocz and Wiclinevskie.
"Galician front: On the Dniester out
troops, supported by the artillery, in e
sharp attack took some trenches and a
bridgehead east of the village of Miki'SllYPLANS
CHANGED BY HOUSE
Provision for Discharge Into
Reserves After One Year
Is Adopted.
rite House today continued
work on the I lay army reorganization
hill, with about two-thirds
of the measure remaining to he
disposed of. Among the sections
awaiting consideration were those
relating to the National Guard,
the industrial reserve and that
providing for a nitrate plant.
Making Hapid Progress.
Prospects were that the rapid progress
on the bill which began immediately following
the rejection late yesterday of
amendments to increase the regular
army provisions of the bill would be
continued today.
The first action of the House today was
to adopt without debate an amendment
to give the President absolute control
aver the reserve of 60,000 men.
The bill originally provided that authority
must be granted by Congress
before the reservists could be mobilized.
An. amendment ofTered by Representative
Kahn of the committee
ind accepted by Chairman Hay puts
reservists under the orders of the Secretary
of War, to be sent fo any point
when the call to the colors goes out.
Men Subject to Call.
The amendment is the most important
addition to the bill yet made. As the
measure now stands the President
would have authority, without consulting
Congress, to increase the army
from 140.000 fighting troops to 175,000,
and also to summon to the colors the
60,000 reservists which the bill contemplates
will be provided within four
years.
The House rejected a proposal by Repesentative
Anthony, republican, of Kanlas,
to recruit an additional infantry regineht
in Porto Rico for service in the
Panama Canal Zone or elsewhere.
Mr. Kahn proposed as an amendment
t provision in the Senate bill that while
he enlistment period should remain fixed
three years with the colors and four
i'ears in reserve, commanding officers
might discharge peculiarly efficient men
into the reserve after one year of training,
and that any well trained man could
?o into the reserve on his own application
at the end of two years' active service.
Chairman Hay's First Defeat.
The amendment was defeated. IIS to
tftS. The question will come up again
in the conference committee, the
Senate bill is almost certain to retain
its provision.
Encouraged by the* narrow margin
which defeated the Kahn amendment.
Representative Gardner re-offered the
first proposition of that amendment in
new language. It was carried, 128 to
117, being the first defeated .for Chairman
Hay during consideration of the
bill.
The amendment as agreed to provides
that soldiers may be discharged into
the reserve at the er/d of one year's
service with the colors on approval of
their commanding officers.
chairman Hay argued that the effect
of the provision was to reduce the term
>f enlistment with the colors to such a
iegree that the efficiency of the army as
\ whole would be impaired. Representative
Gardner contended that it would
encourage enlistments and tend to
I>u11 1 up quickly a well trainer] reserve
once no man *1 ischarged into the re-eive
under the provision could re-enlisl
in the army until he had completed
six years' service in the reserve.
Higher Pay Voted Down.
Representative Gardner's amendment
to raiscjthe pay of privates from $15
to $20 per month and make other increases
was defeated without a roil
call.
In order to hasten action on the Hay
lull it was decided to dispense tomorrow
with calendar Wednesday, one of
[he oldest and most revered institutions
of the House.
Signal Corps Increase Fails.
An attempt to increase the number
of officers in the Signal Corps of the
army, made yesterday by Representative
Green of Iowa, failed, after Chairman
Hay had protested against it.
Representative Green said that the
Signal Corps is the eyes and ears of
the arinv and that enlisted men are to
be added to it, but no officers.
Chairman Hay said he had no doubt
that an increase is necessary, but inasmuch
as the aviation corps, which is
a part of the signal service, is under a
cloud at present, owing to investigating
resolutions in the Senate, lie did
not think it At to make any such increases.
Kepresentat ive Hull of Iowa succeeded
with his amendment increasing
the number of officers in the ordnance
department. '
Machine Gun Discussion.
Itepresentative Sherley of Kentucky,
chairman of the fortifications subcommittee
of the House appropriation committee.
supported the amendment, saying
that the ordnance officers have
more work than they can properly attend
to at present.
In the discussion the question of the
army machine guns arose, and the case
of the famous' gun at t'oiumbu*, N. M..
which is claimed to have "jammed" at
the critical moment in the Villa raid,
was laid before the House. Representative
Shcrtev said thai the accident
is being investigated thoroughly.
He also predicted a great increase tn
artillery material under the fortifications
bill which will soon be reported.
GERMANS GAINING
IN FIERCE DRIVES
111 wrnniiu nrninii
I IN VtKUUn Ktbiun
Assaults on French Flank Net
Ground South of
Malancourt.
jAVOCOURT WOOD ALSO
TAKEN BY TEUTONS
Berlin Reports Taking of Positions
to Northeast. With 2,500
Prisoners.
| IMPORTANT FORCES USED
i Crown Prince's Guns Hurl Huge
Shells, and Liquid Fire Is
Used to Hake Advances.
LONDON". March 21.?The
Hermans before Verdun are
making a strong drive at the
French left flank well toward the
border of the neighboring Argonne
region, and have gained
rrrnmiH si mi li of Malancourt.
a,v*
some ten mile* northwest of
Verdun.
i Their first attacks took them
into the Malancourt wood, and
today's official statement from
Paris shows them to have pushed
some distance further southward,
occupying the Avocourt wood,
the southern section of the Mai;
ancourt wooded district.
French positions northeast of
Avocourt were captured by the
Germans, who took 2,500 prisoners,
the Berlin war office announced
today.
The German attacks have been
made with important forces, with
the support of a heavy bombardment
by shells of large caliber
and the throwing of liquid fire
by detachments carrying special
devices for the purpose.
The ^Germans attempted a
further advance southward, hut,
i according to Paris, their attempts
to debouch from the Avocourt
wood were failures.
Heavy Losses Reported.
The powerful German attack between
Avocourt and Malancourt resulted yea
ceraay in iicb.*} iuooco iu mc v.ci maua,
according to the French war office. A
fresh division brought up from a distant.
point was used in this operation,
which was characterized by the employment
of jets of liquid flame.
The text of today's French statement
follows:
"In Belgium a reconnaissance on the
part of the enemy which took place
along our lines <-o the north of Pont
Boesinghe was at once driven back by
; a counter attack.
"In the Argonne district our artillery
has been very active along the
southern boundary of the Cheppy wood.
Flaming Liquid Used.
"West of the River Meuse the Germans
several times last night renewed their
attacks against our front, extending
from Avocourt to Malancourt, where the
bombardment by shells or large caliber
continued without interruption. The attacks
of the enemy here were accompanied
by the throwing of flaming liquid
by detachments of men carrying special
machines for this purpose.
"In spite of the heavy losses inflicted
by our Are, the enemy was able to take
]>ossession, after hand-to-hand fighting,
of the southeastern part of Malancourt
wood, known as the Avocourt wood,
which we occupied. All the efforts of
3 Times Last Week
On three days last week
The Star printed more advertising
of the Washington
stores than all three of its
competitors combined.
This week starts off in the
same way. The reason for
this is that Washington merchants
find that a sinfrlp art
- ? O - ~
vertisement in The Star sells
more goods than the same
advertisement in all other
Washington papers put together.
Yesterday's Figures
Local Display
LillM.
The Evening Star 15,073
2d Newspaper 6,526
3d Newspaper 4,839
4th Newspaper 3,485
14.850
Excess over other
three combined... 223
The Star's net circulation
is over So,000 a day.
40
40^ ^
MARCH 21, THE OFFICIA
i * -?
the Germans to march out from the Avo- r%P#ITl>A|frnr
court wood resulted In failure. Ill 1 I Mil if I LiV
"The night passed quietly on other I Ir \ I l| I I V F If \
sectors in the Verdun region." WL.U I IIU I ILIlV
German Statement. ^pp _ p. _ . _
The text of today's German official IILL JJLI I'lA
statement follows:. IJ| | |j| I Mill
"West of the Meuse Bavarian regi- " " ""11 1
ments and battalions of Wurttemberg
landwehr, after careful preparations,
stormed the entire strongly fortified j Rnth British flfl
French positions in and near the forest j
northeast of Avocourt. In addition to, pi r\
considerable "mmriparv losses, the en-j - Haffrt vuCCuSS
emy has so far incurred losses amount - !
ing to thirty-two officers, including two ! Pnnofiom
in command of regiments, and more ! Cliyayclll
than 2.600 men in unwounded prisoners
and much war material, the amount
of which has not yet been ascertained.
"Counter attacks attempted by the EON DON. March -1.?
enemy did not bring him any advantage, occurred yesterday c
but. on the contrary. Inflicted further coaHt between four Bi
serious losses upon him.
"East of the Meuse the situation is German destro.vers. r
unchanged." man vessels were hit.
the British boats were
Dead Man's Hill Held | official account of the ?
, _ _ A "Yesterday morning
by Germans, Teutonic ! stayer* sighted three <
. , . . , ers off the Belgian coa:
(correspondent Insists destroyers ?t once tun
I BKftU.N. March 21.?'The semi-official ^brugtrc. chased by o
j Overseas News Ageucy quotes a special erR
correspondent or me Jxtkai Anzeiger at j ?,,vl8 -"??i
the Verdun front as declaring: "with ab- "bort running fight, i
solute certainty" that the whole territory ! boats were, observed tc
! designated as "De Mort Homme," Dead 1 ?ur casualties were fo
I Man's hill, 011 the French general staff j e<J
. map, "one to 80,000," that is to nay, j Berlin Version <
j "height 265 and height 295, as well as IV ... .
the district between these two mentioned i Alarm _i.
heights, are completely in Herman hands." J niiialty account of the
? J British destroyers and
; AMERICAN SECURITIES
STILL BEING MOBILIZED I
LONDON. March 21.?There is no in-j boats and a division of
dication of any discontinuance of the stroyers.
I mobilization of American securities, "The enemy broke off
the usual list of treasury quotations, after he had received ?e
ion which has just appeared. Rutnors an*' be steered out of sij
j have been current for some days that "We suffered only tin
I common shares shortly would he re- ! aRpJ
moved from the list, hut no action on j
I this has yet been taken.
| ! RUSSIA PAYS $21
THREE TROPHIES OFFERED. pgp QOAL P
Will Be Competed For at Army Copenhagen, via
Polo Tourney in April. 21?The Russian gove.
? ? , r chased for 520,000,000 i
Three troph.es will he placed In com- and American intere!
I0",,?"., a J?Tan;ent' Properties In the regi
which will be held In Washington from ' according to a Bei
April la to 30. prov ded the campaign the Po!ltlken. The co
of the army In Mexico does not cause lL .. . . ..
on the Murmansk! raiP
a postponement. These are the Wash- . .
. ^ T_ . . , new naval station on
ington Post cups, which are individual , ? ' , *
a ui ^ . . , , coast (Kola peninsula),
trophies to be played for under exist- , ?
... rr-, tions under Russian co
ins: handicaps; The Evening; Star cups . . ,
- - . * in two weeks,
open to teams of four, whose aggregate
handicap does not exceed ten goals,
and the 1*010 Association Army Circuit B.EBEI1S GET ST
cup, which Is offered by the association
to be played for annually on the . ~ I
grounds of the clubs of the army cir- B.CV0lutl011ftriC8 111
cult. Threaten Two
The members of the army circuit are CH\NGHAI. March '
teams from the following posts: Fort is(s ;oday flre'd on ,he s
Riley,. Kan.; Fort Sill. Okla.; Fort Sam ,n the yangtse-Kiang
Houston. Tex.; Port Oglethorpe, Ga.; Rpien She was run 01
Fort Ethan Allen. Vt.; Fort Myer. Va.; j Chung-King. where
West Point. N. Y.. and Washington. D. doned her to the robberi
O. Entries xor the tournament close I ._ ?.,,?i?,.? ?r
April 5. * ?~
- lutlonists have attach
and have appeared in tt
Destroyer Tucker Undergoes Tests. of Hsang-Hsieu and P
ROCKWND. Me., March 21.?Driving east of Cheng-til.
through heavy seas the torpedo boat ?
destroyer Tucker, on her standardiza- ? aqattTTTT TX
tion trials met her contract speed re- MXIO. hottuitn vt
quirements of twenty-nine and one
half knots an hour on her four-hour Tnndoil Globe Agrees
full-power run. Her fastest run on this AAA
test was at the rate of 29.83 knots an of Premier $0,UUU
hour It was stated that she fulfilled 1.0NDON. March 21.
several fuel tests satisfactorily. ,ibel sutt of Mrs. Herbei
of the premier, against
Nitroglycerin Magazine Explodes, settled today. The suit
1,1 MA. Ohio. March 21.?An explosion account or the publicatii
at the storage magazine of th?"Amerl- of statements that Mr
can Glycerine Company, near Spencer- visited German prisoners
vllle last night, wrecked many build- ed at Dennington Hall ai
ings in that village and broke windows cnts to them. When the
here, at Kindlay and other cities fifty today announcement was
miles distant. No fatalities were re- Globe had consented u
ported. It was said 630 quarts of nitro- ?1.000 and costs,
glycerin were-stored-in the magazine. The-defendants wade
*
r>v
% ( ,,
rrisli
ppr ii
^ ai
/
L END OF WINTER. h
? s1
k ^i^ilT I public apology for the statements in *1
LII UI 'the aiobe
l rlhrl I I Mrs. Asquith went into the witness ?
| I IU11 I ; box and formally denied all the alle- D
I gations. jj
N COAST S two aer?planes l?st I
IN FLIGHT IN MEXICO \
d Germans eoll'mbl s, n. m? march a.
areaplanes of the first ?
in Naval }
squadron have been lost in flight
pnt
c en route; iroin liere to the front
i"
in Mexico. Capt. B. D. Foulois, tn
-An engagement j # _ fa
iff tlift Belgian in command of the squadron, to- su
-itish and three : , . , ? . - .. al
?o of the Oer- j da>' reported their lailure to ar- w
Four men on | rjve an(] saj(j their whereabouts.rl
wounded. The ! I
ictioii follows: I was not known. Six machines ar-1 th
tour British de-1 j j safelv. High winds have j':
Jerman destroy- : s I b;
st. The Uerman . nlade army airmen's tasks hazard-IjJ
ned and ran for j
ur own destroy- jOUS.
j . ??: tr
^ed during this j SAVES MES. WAEEEN'S LIFE. \ot
md two enemy
. have been hit. Qov Craig Commutes Death Sen>ur
men woundtence
of Murderess. ?>*
[>f Battle ' UAU5IGH. N. r., March 21?The bi
'death sentence imposed upon Mrs. Ida c<
The Herman ad- j Ball Warren, the first woman ever *?
battle between . sentenced in North Carolina to die In
German torpedo j the ciectric chair, was commuted to is
st fellows: | life imprisonment today by Gov. Craig.
wast of h landers, j rj-|ic governor also commuted to life
iceessful for us jmprigonnient the sentence of Samuel vi
German torpedo. pre8^0n Christy, convicted with Mrs. r?t
five British dc- j Warren for the murder of her husband.
m sa
fhe en sage me nl g, of Clansman in Jai,. Si
veraI direct hfls. J
jlil at full speed. ! ROANOKB. Va.. March 21.?Will Mo- | fo
important dam- (Grew, twenty-five years old, alleged
blockader and reputed "bad man," who I th
j early Saturday morning siiot and killed th
r% aaa 1 JasDer Allen, last "wf the Caimii t:?
J9UUU,UUU j clansmen, l?as been brought here by w
'ROPERTIE^ 1 SllCr'ff GeorRe Kd wards of Carrol! fo
vm ?-n I IL.O county and placed in jail, where he will w
Condon, March be be'u pending a hearing in Hillsvtlle c?
nment has pur- at the April term of the Carroll county pji
'rom Norwegian court.. McGraw surrendered to the th
sts large coal sheriff and will plead self-defense,
on of Spltzber- '
a? wn!TetCused PlIrther Ci
way and for the March 21.?Further restric- in
the Murmansk! tions on the imP?rtation of luxuries (r
Mining opera- Were imposed toda>-- a meeting of er
nl.rol will begin the pr,vy council KinR George signed
a proclamation prohibiting the bringing
in of automobiles, motor cycles, "
various musical instruments, such as '?
EAMSHIP player-pianos and phonographs, and
* spirits and other strong drink, with cu
n,. the exception of brandy and rum. <*a
China Also 7
_ la
Cities. ?t ? mi
U.?Revolution- m<
teamer Tachuen DAY IN CONGBESS. ?"
near Feng-tu- th
i the rocks be- % _
. Senate* nl;
the crew aban3.
Met at 11 o'clock. pe
chuen the revo- Debate resumed on government he
ed Peng-Hsien armor plate plant, bi"' P"
ie neighborhood - Post o.^it0?",,i"^?h6ar.d pro:
test** ikhiiim i
l-Hsien, north- changing system of railway mail T*
pay. 1
Hounr:
Met at 11 o'clock.
H[NS SUIT. General debate on Ha y army j {
bill continued. * a
Naval committee continued pr<
to Pay Wife I hearings on national defense. me
and Pa.4. Substitute for Shields dam bill un
ana UOStS. drawn in interstate commerce V"?
10:56 a.m.?The committee.
rt Asquith, wife dot
the Globe was DISTRICT IN CONGRESS. It
was brougnt on as
Jit by the Globe Houaei M,
s. Asquith had Regular meeting of the House sw
i of war confln- District committee postponed for fs
id had sent pres- one week.
case was called Hearings on Noland three-dol- au
J made that the lars-per-day bill for government in
d judgmcn* for atnployes continued before labor by
committee. pj.<
an unreserves! -v - tin
-1;
VILLA BADLY BEATEN
B Y CARRANZA FORCE
AROUND NAMIQIJIPA '
?lees, Leaving Dead and Wounded on
Field, Reports to Juarez Military
Officials Indicate.
J. S. Aviators Keep Watch on Bandit, While
Gen. Pershing Hurries to Head Him Off.
President Agrees to Protocol, Which
First Chief Asks.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., March 21.?Maj. Gen. Funston today
tked the War Department for additional troops, to be used in
le campaign against Villa. He did not state the number, but
cplained he wanted an adequate force to protect the line or comunication,
already more than 100 miles long. He received no
irther news from Gen. Pershing.
I?L PASO, Tex.. March 21.?According to dispatches received
>day at Juarez by the Carranza officials, Villa was badly beaten
csterday in his fight with the C arranza troops under the command
f Col. Cano.
rite advices set forth that ndt only was the Mexican bandit
orsted, but that he fled, leaving his dead and wounded on the field.
The meager information is to the effect that Villa had about
WV\ nmn in liic trnin Knt tlvit tticf Kpfnrn tlln Itn+tlc* ft ohrillt*
X) natives joined him and took part in the fighting.
Villa is now reported to be trying to escape by the almost blind
ails leading to the passes in the Sierra Madre mountains, where it
. possible that he may succeed in eluding his pursuers for a time.
fn order to prevent escape, in this manner, however, the aviators
f the United States forces are hovering over the Villa outfit and
re keeping the expedition acquainted with the bandit's movements.
TRYING TO KEEP HIM FROM SIERRAS.
The main object'of the American column at this moment is to
ead Villa off before he can reach the mountain passes. He is
topped effectively already from the north by the main column of
le American troops.
Army officers agree that if he breaks up his command into small
ands and does succeed in reaching the mountains it will be almost
npossible to capture him. lie spent his early days as an outlaw in
lese mountains, the passes through which the army and its transport
lay not move. It takes ten or twelve days to negotiate these torious
trails into the Sonora district. Mexicans here believe that
'ilia will hide in these fastnesses until the American troops grow
iscouraged and give up the chase.
Further news of the battle is being anxiously awaited by the
fficials here.
Strong Carranza Force Ready. followed the line of communication established
by Gen. Pershing- in his
A strong Carranza force has been sta- J southward progress. If Lieut. Kfiner
oned at Xamiquipa, forming a part of J suffered any mishap and was compel!e
chain of defense, which the de j ? kfJTuWt
cto government has thrown across it is believed.
uthern Guerrero. If Villa had been I Dispatches arriving from Columbus.
llo tn this obstacle the . say th" although it is now more
>le to bieak past tnis oostat le tne tjian ten days since the Villa forces atay
was open for a flight into northern tacked Columbus, and it has been eslihuahua.
or the bandit leader can tablished definitely that the bandit Is
..... , . - fleeing before the American expeditionoceed
eastward into the fastnesses of ary force, some of the residents of the
e high range shutting in the Nami- town are not without fear that the raid
iipa district. may be repeated. Practically all of
News of the battle was received first the male residents carry firearms and
Gen. Gavira, commander of the almost every home now has its rifle
irranza troops stationed in Juarez, rack.
?n. Gavira's dispatches did not state j When the little brick schoolhouse on
e number of Villa men engaged by the mesa was opened Tor classes for the
>1 Cano. commanding the Carranza first time since the raid a number of
oops, but is said to have been a force the older boys came to school with rey0O
volvers swinging from their ammunition
belts. Only about 20 per cent of
Interest in Aero Scouting. the m pupils enrolled appeared. It
? was asserted^that the others had been
Interest was shown in wireless dis- sent away from town by their parents
itches from the front stating that six to rema>n until the danger is removed.
planes of the 1st Aero Squadron, May Call Additional Troops,
immanded by Oapt. Benjamin D. Fouis
hq.l joined the American expedi- COIAMBIS. X. M.. March 21?Every
on Henceforth aeroplane scouting organisation of the United Statea Army
expected here to play an important at "" ''olumbus s,a,io" is b*,nK "P^,rt
in the progress of tlen. Persuing s '> """ought mto condition for field serv
I urn us. At El Valle and truces, ac- K*e. It was reported today that addiirding
to travelers in the Santa Maria tional troops soon would be called for
:n',et"fo.e aae?op?aryha"fes,OC^r?om "?"",hern Chihuahua.
iese points the army airmen are ex- Information concerning the troops Is
jcted to make frequent reconnois- received here daili' over the armv wiratnces
over the loHy teaches of the ,?R lhe s,ation being connected with
?Jr?- ?i f it ki a r'e'd station at rasas C.randes. This ,
if A ilia is proceeding Ml considerable inforniaTici, is relayed directly to Ma.i
,rt'e Ti'.TUm ,!!, ! !h ??.> Kunston. department commander
i'1" n its aini is kep'niittr under at Sa 11 ^utonio. the censorship prohibite?Shelter
of the oak and pine woods '."f l,al?e ?>*d" public here
at clothe both sides of the moun- "bat ''7'*
ins the task of llie aerial observers tells only forted and night
ill become extremely difficult, it is marches.
>t alone in spying after the Villa Jeara u,\t Mexican ,ban.dlts w"o
rces however, that the 1st Squadron fbodt to make another attack upon Colli
be en,plovid; the flying men are I"mbus were expressed by residents to;pected
to p ck out camping places, da>" following the discovery of smoke
1 . * x __ 'inn one of the neaks of the mountains
ateringr spots, ana, in some cases, / -
ithways over the mountains which overlooking: the town. These fears
e mule trains can follow. were increased by reports that several
Mexican residents of the town who had
Every Home Has Rifle Rack. not been seen ?ince the Villa raid had
returned. Investigation of the smoke.
\To uneasiness is felt here regarding: which some citizens believed to be that
eut. W. G. Kilner, who left Columbus of a flr?. proved to have been
a seventh machine to go to the cause<J f niinin^ prospector. Sev.
... . .? .. . eral of the Mexicans who have returned
ont, and did not arrive with the oth- , Said they feared public sentiment after
s. The . aero squadron undoubtedly i the raid and fled to neighboring: cities.
President W ilson and his cabinet today decided to accept the propoaal for
protocol between the United State* and the de facto government of Mexico
r co-operation in the pursuit of Gen. Villa and hi^ outlaws.
Gen. Cnrriinxa*s ambassador here and State Department officials will disss
the protocol further. It is expected It will be put In final form la a few /
ys and slgrned.
It was also decided at today's cabinet meeting: that word should be sent
te today to Gen. t'arranxa that tiie request of the United States to use the
'viean railroads does not Include the transportation of troops, but only ship
Mit of supplies to the American troops.
Acting Secretary- Polk and Secretary Baker explained to the cabinet
ernight dispatches and the aituation growing out of the request for ue of
e railroads.
Mr. Polk aald that in reply Gen. Carransa had naked whether It was
tinned to tranaport American troops aa well as supplies.
The President and the cabinet were disposed to meet any reasonable
quest. It was indicated that the proposed protocol would be no coatprenslve
as to include all questions which might arise in connection with tho
irsult of Villa by the American and Carransa forces.
ENTAT1VE DRAFT OF PROTOCOL
IS BEING PREPARED BY ENVOY
tentative draft of a proposed co-operation expected from the CarHocol
between the de facto govern- i ranza soldiers, and will provide for
nt of Mexico and the United States, such matters as the use of Mexican
der which American and Mexican railroads by American troops, although
would co-operate in running J the specific request to ship supplies
wn Francisco Villa, the bandit, was rrom hi I faso win oe disposed or sepanR
prepared today by Eliseo Arre- rately.
ado Mexican ambassador designate.
will be submitted to Gen. Cirrina To Equalize the Privileges,
soon as an agreement on details ^ ? ?
reached with the State Department. In order to make it plain that tha
Arredondo and Acting Secretary of Washington administration and th?
ite Polk already have reached an
reement on the general principles <-arran?a government are seeking to
rolved work in harmony, it is proposed thar
he convention is designed to meet the same privileges granted the Ameri.
questions that may arise hereafter can (orcea should be granted Mexican
connection with the chase for Villa troops should the necessitv arise for
American forces. It is said the Mexican soldiers to enter American
vtocol will set forth I he rights of territory.
: American troops, the natune of the The proposal for the protooaL a htgh
1.: ..JZi
