The
y. VOIj 11. No. 47. SEMl-WKKKLY.
HOSPlTftL BURNS J*
PATIENTS SAFE ~
OU iNk
M If I O.
l>r. Prvor Suffers Ia>sm at Chester.
' TUESDAY ]
FI/AMES GAIN GROUND 10:30?Praise
Whitescarver.
Fire S\vee|?s All Before It In Mn<l 10:40?Welconi
Rush?New Building Soon. ties.
10:45?My At
Special to The State. Five minute
Chester, March 20.?Dr. S. W. Small. Mrs. S
Pryor's hospital on Saluda street lies ft. MeKnight..
in ashes to-night as a result of prob- ough, Mrs. L
ably the most sensational conflagra- U;io?Message
tion in Chester's history. The loss laj dent. Mrs. J.
roughly estimated at between $.'.5,000 11:26?A Bit ol
and $40,000. about two-thirds cov- the Vice Pros
ered by insurance. While many of Song Message,
the patients had narrow est apes, they n ;4o?Assoclal
were all brought out safely on Demonstration
stretchers and in their beds. To-, ecutive Meeti
night all of the patients are resting Music,
comfortably, except for the fact that 12:15?Discussi
many are very nervous afte^ the fire ( ganlzing. Mr
shock. i Enlistment. M
The alarm was rung in about 10 j 0jo p]an mcf
o'clock tills morning. At that tim<- |nR Record, >
the entire roof, which was a wooden porting. Mrs.
one, as wa? the entire structure, was Open discussion
a mass of fire. The Stonewall fire de- l 2: 50--Closing
pnrtment was quickly on the scene _ Word, Mrs. \
and in a 'cw minutes eight streams Adjournment,
of water were playing on the fire. TUESDAY A
which was speedily gnawing its way y. W. A. Sessio
^downward. At first the water pros- Devotional Sr
sure was not satisfactory and the, Brown,
powerful pumps at the water station Messages from
were then started to work, and water ; Mrs. AT. S.
then came with a force that carried Rurbage, Mrs
everything before it. Annette Stov
Ru sin ess of the city was practically At School in
susnended. Many of the stores closed Ceo. E. Davi
their doors tight and turned their Song Service,
salesmen and office force into volun-IY. W. A. Mess;
teer fighting brigades. The main-Open Discussi'oi
thing uppermost in the people's minds j "Christ's Mess;
was the rescuing or patients and tnev tho Training
were carried out to many of the Davis.
nearby homes, which were turned | TUESDAY
Into temporary hospitals. At first j Scripture Iteadi
before the citizens arrived on the I j. a. Davidson,
scene the nurses played a heroic part Pngennt?Camd
in trying: to assist the patients to Song: Message,
make their escape. Several ^nurses Address?Dr. J
fainted just as a dozen men rushed Offering.
In to help thenf. Benediction.
At the time of the fire Dr. Pryor WEDNESDAY
nnd his assistants were in .the oper- 1?:00?Conseci
ating room nnd had just finished op- Whitescarver
eratlng on Mr. Evans of Abbeville, 10:10?Demons
Another patient, a small boy. Ernest ings?1, rpk
Teague, was still under the Influence bage; 2. Qua
of ether, from an oneratlon for apen- vis.
^Itis. By skillful work these pa-j 10:40?Giving:
tients were removed and it is thought D. Wray; 2.
that their hurried removal from the King,
institution will prevent any after 11:10?When I
effects. ced. By Ten
To-night some of the patients are *1:26 The Po
at the Chester sanatorium. By to- Brayer. Mrs.
morrow morning Dr. Pryor will have ?Graded
the former DaVega private hospital Mp8- H.
on Wylle street equipped and ready 11:R0 H. A.
to receive his patients, or at least James Cleckl
most of them. A number of patients ( amden R. A
had gone home well from the hoa- Roland CJoot
pltal Saturday and Sunday and a few Gra> Mrs- Ja
were to arrive this afternoon. Those 1:*:60 Closing
In the hospital at the tlrrie of the ; Word, Mrs.
fire or the best list obtainable at Adlournment.
this late hour were as follows: WEDNESDAY
* Miss Ethel Jay of Chester graded ')ov?Honal Sen
' school faculty. Mrs. Raskin of Rich-j Sunbeam Hour
burg. Mrs Lollis of Honen Path, the F Izer.
Rev. James Sharp of Chester, Mr. R Exercises by C
P. Lilly of Tampa. Ela.. Oleln Hardin ''rnotio^l Sugg(
of Dunbar. Mr. Evans of Abbeville. H. I Mi""- J. D. CI
K. Hough of Chester, Mrs. W. M. I HemonstratlonEstes
of Ttockton. M. T. Austin of ^Pen Discuaslo
Chester, Ernest Tongue and Dee Mr- ; drnnces.
Cay of Chester. R. L. Douglas, M. D.. j 'hings to Pass
of Rqdman, Miss Mary Roulwnre ofif'os'nK Measag
Chester, T. S. Calhoun of Abbeville. I ough.
Miss Mary Stroud of Chester, R.^O. ?
Mills of Chester, Levi 0111 of Chester, j solution possib
O. Chlsolm of Chester and John Jack-j either caught fi
son of Chester, ionto the roof fi
One big loas was the $(>,000 X-ray nGV or from tb<
outfit. Parts of It w$re saved, how- ney- The orlgl
ever, but It will cost several thous- mystery. It wa
and dollars to repair It. before any one
Dr. Pryor Mid tonight that the The sparks f
hospital would be rebuilt at ones and Ignited W. W.
' be constructed entirely of brick, ce- causing a fl.00
ment and steel, and would be as near next to th
tire-prof me It in possible to make ft.! Annie C. Hott<
Dr. Pryor Is bravely holding up u*ed to the ei
under the tremendous strain,through dred dollars am
which he ha* gone to-day. He had ?-. D. Crose' hoi
built op a hospital thAt drew patientR times, and his
from all over the south and his repu- *>ly $1,200. Th?
tdtlon as a surgeon to-day extends T. H. White's,
over the country. Many telegrams; Graham's rosh
received this afternoon from former *way. causing
pattaO*^ all over the south attested these cases, k
eo the nigh esteem In which he was carry some In
held and general public sorrow at his ooVer the losse
grent lose. The Pryor t
A careful Investigation was made was konwn as
by Dr. Fryor of the origin of tb* was (bu!U abou
fire, but without avail. The only Pryfr. ^
I " ^ .
LANCASTER, S. 0. J
"=" VILLA LEADS ATM
Division Institute \V. j
5?S res ON CARRANZA FORCE
i
Re|n>rted De Facto Government
MORNING 10:30 Troops Are About to bet Outla
Bervice, Mrs. W. O. (,rt Away.
_ ,,, f . VT CAHKANZA ASKS PROTOCOL
e. Miss Louise Net
Wants Uncle Sain to Sign Ajjreemei
soriational Ideal : for Co-Operation in Chase for Vll
talks by Mrs. R. F. i am, ?ls
. B. Goodale, Mrs. C. J
Mi.- n r> I ? _ _
... ..w.- til raso. rex., March 20.?'The fn
. K. Sturkie. ops of Col. Cano wore engaged
. from State Presi- battle at 4:SO o'clock this aftemtw
D. Chapman. with bandits led by Villa in Nam
r Division History, by qutpa. according to a dispatch r
idont of the Division.' reived this afternoon bv Clen. Gnvft
t Carranzas commandant at Juajti
ional Engineering? The result of the fighting was 'it
n?Associntionnl Ex- d< rid d at the time of tin' r< <
ng. Mrs. J. R. Fixer. ' of the dispatch. Namiquipa is
the district of Guerrero. State
on of Methods: Or- chihuahua. Cano is In command
?. Russell Ramsey force of 000 cavalry, which e??i
irs. H. T. Tlorton: Cir- in contact two days ago at 1.1 ^ afl
i. C. E. Rurts; Keep- with Villa forces, which on this ?
llss Jessie KI q gRe- rasion fled without giving battle.
E. E. Hodge. Despite the reports that Cant
forcer had engaged those of N'djf
Message from The qulpa. persons well Informed
,V. E. Thayer. express the opinion that the ('ali
' * 7<;1 forces had failed to hold up
FTERNOON. 4:00 0ncl of the net by which it was pv
n. posed to capture the bandit eh}L?
vrvleo?Mrs. Matti" tain. There was confirmatory t
ports received to-dsry of the nf
the Associations? reserved for the lart week that 4
Williams. Mrs. Geo. | Mexican troops, not only were fa
. L. K Williams. Miss |;ig to co-operate with the Anv?
er. Miss Ada Phelps. I can troops, but In certain inst.utr
Mission Study?Mrs. nt least were actually withdraw!;
s. from the field of operations. '
Carrnnzlstns W itlidraw
?"Rlble Study." i The Associated Press learned
i. unquestionable authority, that t
ige."?A Call From troops of the de facto governing
School Mrs. Geo. E. which had been seen at Sasas C.in
des have been wthdrawn and a
EVENING. 8:00 now in or about .Timro* ir-?m t
ng and Prayer?Rev. aame source it was learned that
least one detachment of Carran
len Y. W. A's. troops had refused to fight Villa r
had withdrawn from the bandits a
ohn E. White. proach. leaving him free%o pass ir
his favorite mountain fastness. T
detachment withdrew on receipt
1 MORNING 10:00 a message that he was warring, n
atlon* Mrs. W. O. on Mexicans, but the enemies of t
s Mexicans,
itration?Model Meet-1 The extraordinary rapidity wl
ular, Mrs. Geo. Rur- which the American cavalry push
rterly, Mrs. O. E. Da- into Mexico gave high hopes yest<
day that the unexpected had ha
? 1. Motive, Mrs. T. , pened and said that the notorio
Method. Miss Jessie bandit was cornerod. This seem
inevitable if the Carranza soldi*
the ^tandnrd Oonvln- did their part, and if the accou
Women. of the strength of their field fon
wer, Bible Study and was correct.
C. L. Cuttino. It now seems certain that Vi
Union,*1 Responisbil- has been moving freely In at lei
K. Williams. I a large section of the country si
Hour, led by Mrs. posed to be held by the forces
ey; Demonstration by the first chief.
's; Best Methods, Mrs. The reason for Carranza troc
lale; Hints to Dead moving to the border remains um
mes Cleekley. plained. It Is Impossible even to ma
Message from The a fair estimate of the number of m
W. E. Thaver. under Gen. Gavtra at Juarez. T
' "" "most conservative estimate places
AFTERNOON 4:00 iat 3.000 and calculation range fr<
/ice. that point, upward to 8.000. Most
', led by Mrs. J. R.jthe men are kept outside the to(among
the hills. Reports from Ac
amden Sunbeams. ' Prleta and Ojlnnga tell of Mexif
cations to Headers, reinforcements reaching those poll
hapman. also, but nothing is known as to th
?Promotion Day. numbers.
hi rii'ips ana Illn- There Is no questcln thnt there
serious and growing unonslnosp In
f)n- Paso, which has been sharply acci
e. Mrs. O. C. Scarbor- tunted by (be request of the TTnll
States Government objective to O'
Carranza for the use of the Mexir
1e to-^ight is thnt It railroads to transport supplies. Am
rom a spark that, flew icans here did not believe that C
rom some other chlm- ranza dare grant this request,
i hospital's own chlm- pecially as it Is understood that G<
In will ever remain a Punston proposes, if it is granted,
.? all a mans of flames take train crews and equipment it
was aware of the fire. Mexico and place military guards
rom the hospital firo the stations. The presence of A*m
Coogler's next door, lean soldiers on Mexican railroads,
0 fire and water dam- is said, would be very likely mlsi
at residence was Mrs. derstood by the peons and It is feai
m's. which was dnm would be sure to provoke outbrea
ctent of saveral hun- ;
d further up the street YOUNO WOMAN FOCND DEAD
me was ablaze several ??
loss will reAch possi- Phial in Hand and Note Pinned
1 sparks likewise fired Dress.
bam and Emily Hock Hill, March ltf.?Miss Wil
lence ahoul a block May Adams, about twenty years n
very little damage in youngest daughter of Mr. and M
lII or tnese structure* F. w. Adams, of this city, was fou
surance, sufficient to dead in Laurelwood cbmetery to-d
s. , with an empty carbolic acid hot
lospltal until recently beside her and a note pinned to 1
the Maftdalene, and dress. Th^ coroner's Jury found
t 12 yeirs aro by Dr. vrd'ot in accordance with the ubo
.STER N]
ilARCH 21, 191(> ^
moiEiT" -;.::r
: - ' HKt of < liaracters f?
S INIffiRAPI - ??
W V 1,1,11 j will give an enterti
*h Uapid Advance of American Ti(m?|(s j>c'100' house Friday i
w Confuses Fleming Villa. [beginning at 7:30 o
!?>on fee ten and fifl
CAHRAXZ.VS TROOPS PACK TKST (eeds ,or the bpnefi
Following is the ca
Outlaw Serins to lie llnnmcd In on ''"gaged birl.
Three Sides Ivy Const it utiona 1st s beautiful and pc
With I'nited States Soldiers (iunrd- ''on,a McCain. R
i.lir l<V,i >-# I. % ... n MisS Allilliol Cronol..
.iK iiuv <11 riKUipc. I "
tor, an nnglomnni
El Paso, March 19.?Francisco ^e<?811
Villa has been driven into a trap by Winitied Mercer, i
tin rapid advance of the American Marf?aret Simps
1 troops, according to the Information May Idler Miss
e received to-day in wireless dispatch Mrs. Dacre. Alliv
''',cs from the front and in telegraphic; Sa,,,e
'7' | dispatches to Gen. Oariva, the Car- Brewer, Alir
?| ranza commander at Juarez. Every- ',on
! thing seems now to depend on the Molly, a servant.?:
lability of the Curanza garrisons to son?
, hold tlieir end of the net. On three j James, a waiter.
? j sides of the bandit chief he is hem man.
' j mod in by strong Carranza columns, Echo hand.
( l while on the fourth the Americans1 Steve Short, a ver
" are driving forward with amazing ?Claude TTtnson.
t speed. ' William Song a
(i Villa was reported in the Rabri- T OVf1 TI'nenn.
, Cora lake region to-night on t>'<-1and Heart
n ranch of Mrs. Plioebe Hurst, which Ecrde- Hnlsfead.
. ' he has ravaged several times in tin v an atfeetlon <
" ->t Hal ricet-a <s aliout 55 miles ^"'1V ?lo.
; south of Qaleana, where one section j ^niv ^nlstead, lmr
v <f th. American expeditionary force TT1ri f a'nv<
i has arrived and is pushing forward Cirav a vfsito
l10 at the rate of 33 miles a day. A few "'Hp- Ada
II | mil* to the east of the bandits po- ; ^Tri ^Tf,,'toad. a ^
rj sitions Is Nantiquipa, which is held
^ i b\ a powerful Carranza garrison. On Hannah Barnes, o
ni, the west are the frowning barriers " '10 beeps hou?
of the Sierra Madre mountains liar- , r M*ss T 'cfp McCa
rinir the way to Sonora. Gen. Puis Dwiirlit Bradley, a
on Guiterrez. Cnrranza's field chief, do- "Mr. Bon Dees,
v j dares that he holds all Ihe passes ^r- Brtrton. a yo
)nt Jto Sonora. I Mr. Moffntt TTnllman
_ Sammy, the dark*
in- Garrison Holds Town. > , , . ? _ ,
rp .. .. , Bright McCain,
ire To the south Villa's wav is block-, ... ?
. . .. _ . ... Abraham Barnes,
he ed by the Carranza garrison at Ma-i , . . .
. , * ? er and unmarried?,
at dera, a town of considerable impor- s|iaw
ia tanee as the headquarters of the , ' ?
hd Madera Company, I.ttk, an Amertoaafcf- ^Man
ip- concern which has vast lumber, min- ' . ... ' '
^ There will also 1
ito ing and railroad interests. On ac- , . .
I'nnnl o n H <nn*?<?
. ,t , . .vvui mm nanil U lilt*I
ne | count or the importance of this town ^ ^
of an exceptionally heavy Carranzaj "
iot force is said to hold it. The whole! .
h? situation seems to hang to-night oni"7 ^ IS CR.l
1|P % t 1
the Oarranza forces. If they remain i
th loyal to the first chief, which up to!
ed the present they have shown every I Beeree of Insnnity
?r- indication of doing. Villa appears Snve Ilitn Fron
ip- trapped. It is of course realized that:
us he is on ground of his own choos- Spartanburg. Marc
ed Ing, and a country admirably suited U. Vaughn, who is i
?rs for guerrilla warfare and surprise itentiary under deal
int! attacks. ' heinous crimes whi
"Ps , While Oarranza leaders and the;*0 have committed t
1 United States military authorities perintendent of the
have succeeded so far in avoiding Odd Fellows Orphai
S8' any friction there is one serious ques-jhe incarcerated in tl
'P~ tlon which may arise at any time!'01" 'he Insane. Sol
to threaten the entire situation. As ham stated to-day tl
the lines of communication of the next week for an
'P8 | American force lengthen, the prob- circuit court to ti
PX~ 1cm of bringing tip supplies becomes ^ 'es' ?' Vaughn f
hp increasingly more pressing. made while he is ii
|Pn To grant the United States per- pltal.
hp mission to use the Mexican rail-' " 'he tests shov
1' roads for shipping supplies, it Is; insane he will escap
thought here, may be misconstrued alty. Vaughn was
, by many Mexicans. On the other tober 2t>. 1012, am
wn liand a refusal would scarcely liar- he electrocuted.
U1 monize with the professed desire of have appealed bis r
the Oarranza government to < o-oper- Supreme Court and
n'8 ate in every way with the \merican Supreme Court, whi
P'r authorities. The arrival of this cris- talned 'he Judgmen
is is being anxiously awaited on both Court. A decree o
sides of the border. ool>' thing that can i
Villa had reached Babricora, near 'rom 'he chair.
'n the lake of that name in the Ouer-1 *oUc\tor Bonham
0<' rero region, after having abandoned ,,>0 *? have \
Pn" .10 of his wounded at FI Valle, ac- "u> Hospital, aftei
nn cording to a telegram received to-l^"'4*1 Governor Man
pr" day bv Gen. Gavira at Juarez from Heyward Gibbes. of
ar
ii.oi. Aieto Macia, the commander at
Pearson. to Juarez to-day t
i ' ??i
to Safety In Flight. military situation w
jto j Villa fled to avoid conflict with the ??n- Gavira. He sa
at,rarranza troops under Col. Cano. ?bing's force is db
er_ Among the SO wounded who had n<,ftr ('?sas Grandes
U; been shot in the Columbus raid, and fialeana- southwest (
in_ carried along in wagons only to be The Americans enc?
>ed abandoned at El Valle. was said to I try? but have P?rmJ
be the second In command, Pablo the towns to buy 1
Lopez. Lopez is the leader whose1 other obtainable fo<
death whs reported as a positive fact came fi;c
at the Columbus raid. Later re- Ohregon.
to ports cast some doubt upon his death To-day Oavira re
and indicated that another chief car- copy of the agreemi
Dairying his papers might have been' Carranza governmei
the real victim. Lopez, the telegram entry of the Araerb
r8 .said, was badly wounded, having lumbus.
ind been shot through the abdomen and ^^^^Mirez spent ihin
lay both legs, which were broken. Mexican fashion wl
tl0| The VilUata chief, Cen antes. is freshment stands a
ier , reported with a number of bandits street and orehestri
I 3 in I>as t ruces. amusement resorts,
ve. Oen. Bertini, commanding the Car- a military band gav<
ransa forces at Casas Grandes, came plasa.
iimi ' r-' ? 'i L- ?
v<
$1.50 A YKAh,
.. mowed down ~~
>r Sclinol hntri"
. By TEUTONS 4
ainment at the I
light, March 24, |
'clock. Admis- , ,nan >','al,'n"eH Make Raid on t.h?j
een cents; pro-; * OHKt of K"Kl?nd. French Air
t of the school. Raids,
st of characters:
Aline Dacre; a F"KN< H l-?>SK DKSTItOYKB
>pular girl, Miss
oberta DeBois, NVi,h SiiwkenliiK of Battle lor Ver,\v,
Phyllis Fos- i ''un R,,vs'ans Begin HI Offensive
ac?Miss Lucy | 011 F,,stcrn Front.
a southern girl | ^ the slackening ol fightinjj
on around Verdun the Russians havo
Ada Bees started another big offensive move
th sentence for 'our machines. A German airship
ch he confessed attacked the Entente allied fleet
vliile he was su- HOU'h ot Saloniki, but with what re*
South Carolina su,t B?t*lin does not say.
aage here, is to rhree officers and forty-four men
le State Hospital wl crew the French torpedo
Icltor P. A. Ron- boat <lfstroyer Renaudin were lost
lat he will apply w'hen a Teutonic submarine sent tho
order from the v,,ssel to the bottom of the Adriatic,
'ansfer Vaughn, i 'n a rM>d by four German seu?
sanity will b? P'nnes over Dover, Ramsgate and
i the State Hos- ^estgate at least nine persons were
killed and thirty-one injured. One
v Vaughn to be ol the seaplanes was broupght down
e the death pen- thirty miles at sea by pursuing Rritconvicted
on Oc- 'sb aviators. The German observer
it was sentenced waB killed.
His attorneys The German admiralty officially
aso to the State denies that a German submarine was
the United State responsible for the sinking of the
ch tribunals sus- "tifeh passenger steamer Tuhantla
t of the Circuit ?
f insanity is the ^Hd-l'Sl'MTTIXd SCENES AT THE
now save Vaughn FAYSSOUX SHOW.
It remained for Fayssoux, the ' *
decided to take phychic marvel, to bring out in his
aughn placed in exhibitions the comic possibilities of
correspondence hypnotism. The old time hypnotists,
ning and Dr. J. "m> tl,eir limited abilities, had made
Columbia. feeble attempts In this direction bo
fore the coming of Fayssoux, hut
o talk over the they were extremely feeble in coraith
his superior, Par,son to the mirth-provoking
id that Gen. Per- S('enea originated by the greatest livvlded,
with Dart 'lonionstrator, the brilliant Fay
. . 8HOUX.
and a part near; . .
, ~ _ . It beats the best comedy I ever
>f,Casas Grandes. I ..... .
. saw," "It s funnier than a barrel of
imp in the coun-1 .....
iMioi to <to into ,urink,'y" wl,h th"lr ' ?" chopped
ood. (odder and "A "'"rlwlnd ?W*." "Fay>d
An order to "BOU* makes you laugh until your
im War Mioleler ",d<* " ? ?" ??'
edy of all;" are some of the expres.
sions heard in the theatre lobby srfcelved
by a17e ! ^ ,bow
int by which the | pRy8BOUX( the famous hypnotist
at permitted the ftn(I mpnta| tele.pathist, will beKln an
an forces at < o- pnrRKeim,?t next Thursday, Friday
and Saturady at the Star Theatre.
day in the usual; ,
ith a line of re- PAVING IN CHKSTRR.
ilong its main; cheater. March 18.?Considerable
is playing In the cement paving will be done thlo
In the evening gprlng in Chester. The first street
e a concert in the will be the south side of Saluda and
then other streets will be tab an ajfc
?
p,8 aunt Mlss against in*- Germans on the
eastern front. A raid by German scale's
fiance Mr. ;>lam's on ,ho ca"t ooast of England
and by French airmen on Metz and
... T, ... other German towns, the sinking of a
Miss Km ma 11 in
French torpedo boat destroyer by a
submarine in the Adriatic and the
Mr. Fbbie Hall- . , . , . . .
reported torpedoing of an Austrian
hospital ship by an Kntentc underwater
boat are recored in official
y hungry negro and nnofn).Jul communications.
Merlin chronicles an attack oT
band lead -r great violence by the Russians
around Driswlaty I.: go and Lake
N'aroez, hut says the Russians wero
a \nune. b.d\ repulsed, with great lo ses, 11,270
if heart ?Mis BusRlnns dead having been counted
in the Lake Naroez region,
sister, Miss Ko Saturday the Germans in the VauxDamloup
sector, northeast of Verr
and 'Honda o. began another spirited attack
McCain. against the French, but the French.
i ilncinu their curtain of fire Into
pla> drove the Teutons hack. The.
ir Pi?. a m*?idr>" rtttack was not pushed again during
;e for her broth Sunday and only intermittent b<un'n
burdments took place,
i fortune hunter Berlin reports the recapture of
iiAMlP PTAimrl furvm *> " ? * *
B.v?uu tiuiii me iirmsn nortnung
physician east of Vermelles, in the region of
l.ahnsse, and the driving of the
?y hell-hoy Mr. j pr,?neh from a position northeast of
Badonvillers, in the Vosges. Lona
yankee farm-l(jon admits the capture by the GerMr.
Oliver Oren- mans of three mine craters at the
llohenzollern redoubt,
rl Hinson. . French Cannon Busy. 4
,'th TTelms. 71,e prench guns have been bmsy
>e a pantomine.' bombarding German trenches in
ital music; lots champagne and German depots
northeast of St. Mihiel.
Five French air craft dropped
\7X~ { bombs on Metz, ammunition depots
k* MISS DEATH near Chateau Salins and the aero?
drome at Dteuze, while twenty-three
)nlv Thing That other machines attacked the aviation
i Electric Chair, camp at Ilabsheim and the freight
\ station at Mulhaussen. In the at h
19?Thurston ,a("'c wMch followed the Germans
n the State Pen- an(l the Fronrh eaoh ,oa, ,hree or
