VOL. 52 NO; 60
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., TUESDAY, MARCH 21, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
UHBTSONS WQRECEB
FATAtLY HURT WHEN
IE DROPS FULiMATE
Slipping on Clod of Snow As
He Kicks Door Shut, U.
11. C. Co. Employe Drops
Two Pouches Containing
Powerful Explosive
Hand Is Torn Away.
5orce of, ' Explosion' Stops
Machinery in Section of
Plant Work Suspended
For Day in Immediate
Vicinity "Women Work
ers Suffer Shock.
William Bergold,, aged -. 27,
I was probably fatally injured
this morning at the plant of
the ' Union , Metallic Cartridge
Go.,' when he fell while carry
ing two pounds of fulminate.
,". The machinery in one of the
buildings of the plant was
stopped by the force of the ex
plosion. Windows for many
yards around were shattered
and four .women suffered se-
' vere shocks. One suffered the
loss of her hearing, it is said.
.'. A, clod of snow on the hee:
' of Bflsrgold's shoe is . indirect
ly responsible for the explo
sion. Bergold slipped and
dropped the explosive, y
Hie explosion occurred shortly Tie-
fore 8 o'clock in the priming room In
building- No. 237 facing Sea. view ave-
si-ue. Just 'south of Arctic street. The
window in the one-story building f pr
a distance of 200 yards were shattered
, ' No damage was done -to houses oppo
site the factory.. The detonsitum was
"felt within a radius oj. one mile-
Belcgold roomed at "733 East Main
treet, He Is unmarried.. He had been
" employed at the plant, only since Wed-
neday. . , '' . ' ''r -
He "was- making- his second trip of
the morning from the fulminate mix
ing jhanty, the scene of three explo-
ions during the last year. The dis-
tance to the priming room is abont
200 yards. Bergold had two ruooer re
' ceptacles in his hands, veach carrying
One pound of fulminate. He was
' compelled to walk through a, narrow
gulch between the magazines . for
about 100 feet, lie then mounted a
wooden stairway, which -was covered
' with newly fallen snow. The distance
from thestairs to 4he priming room is
about 100 more feet. In covering this
distance his shoes became' clodden
with wet mow.1 .'-,
Bergold reached" the priming" room
.in safety, found it necessary, to open
the door of the priming room, after
-- placing the receptacle on the. floor.
iHe picked them up and endeavored
to close the dtoor with his heel, vv t-
nesses '. say that when he lifted one
; heel to close, the ' door the other one,
covered with snow, slipped from un-
ler him and the 'dangerous rubber car
riers flew from his grasp and landed
with considerable force on the flctOT
some distance" away,'v:and exploding
just as Bergold, unable to hold his bal-.-
ance, slid along the floor of the prim
ing room. Bergold's body was . hurled
against the side of the building.
Women screamed and ran to and fro
Jn fear as the second explosion oc
curred. Glass fell to the floor of the
factory room -and blood from the lac
erations on the body of Bergold ber
spattered the inner wall of the prim
ing room. ' . i
.- Four women are said to have suf
fered from shock and it .is said that
one . of them suffered the v temporary
Joss of her hearing. They were taken
to their homes in the private automo
biles of the concern.
So powerful was the force of the ex
plosion that machinery in room No
237 was stopped. It was not re-started
as the workers there, ; following the
custom, were dismissed.
Dr. .George B. Cowell, factory physi
cian, arrived on the scene shortly afV
ter the explosion. He gave first aid
treatment to Bergold and- a can was
cent for the private . ambulance of
IRourke & Boucher. In this vehicle
Bergold was transferred to -the Bridge
port hospital, in an unconscious con
dition. . Bergold was rushed to the operating
table where Drs. Cowell, Ives and Car
roll, aided by other members of the
Bridgeport hospital staff began work
ing over him in an endeavor to save
his life.
There JX was found that h had suf
fered internal injuries, an injury to
the left hand which necessitated the
amputation of that member at the
wrist, a ' shattered forearm, and burns
about his . legs and body. Although
officials of the Remington Arms &
Ammunition Co, express hopes for his
recovery, his condition is very crit
ical. , " i
Factory officials ordered work to b.'
ceased in room 237 and the employes
were sent to their homes. Bergold is
the .only employe who was seriously
injured. --
While the ambulance was on its way
to the scene- of the explosion . a coal
cart belonging to the City Ice & Coal
Co.. dumped a load of soft coal at the
Intersection of "Barnum and Sea. view
avenues, by accident.
The ambulance was going full -speed
at the time and narrowly escaped bev
ing overturned as it caromed off the
(Continued on Page 2.) .
OWEN KEEN AN TO
RETIRE FROM HIS
LIVERY BUSINESS
LANDLADY'S LIST
JUMPS $10,000
WITH RENT RAISE
City Clerk Robinson Finds
$5 Increase In Rent Too
Much For Him.
BOARD OF RELIEF
BELIES ITS NAME
Veteran Horseman Has Been
In Business in City's Cen
ter Two Decades. ;
Members Can't Remember
Action Although Books
Show What They Did-
After the board of assessors had
boosted the valuation on the property
of. Adeline Wallenta, of 3387 Main
street, $4,500 and City Clerk J. Alex.
H. Robinson had written her a letter
protesting the increase of $ 5 pr
SHERIFF'S WRIT
INTERFERES WITH
HONEY WN TRIP
Stratford Deputy Arrests
Youth Just As He Takes
Fairfield Bride.
British and German War
ships, of Smaller Type,
Engage in Sharp Conflict FORMER BOSS SAYS
With Both Sides Claiming KING COPPED CASH
Ti riT-r
jr. . Judge Peck Unites Pair and
Severe Battle Is Raging Constable Tomlinson Sepa-
After a quarter of a century's ac
tive experience as a livery-stable keep
er in the city of Bridgeport, Owen month in his rent, the board of relief
Keenan- will retire from business I caTne along and belying its . name.
April 1.
His extensive' stable property on
Along Meuse RiverGer
mans Claim Dead Man's
jm.ui Jtseigium in on
Peace Deliberations.
rates Them.
V (Special to The Farmer.)
Stratford, March 21 Just as Jud
Charles H. Peck murmured "Bless
you, mji children, after' having per
formed a wedding ceremony for Miss
Maude Hawkins of Fairfield and Fred
King of Stratford, this morning, Dep
British destroyers and der
man torpedo boats engaged in "ty sheriff muis Tomlinson placed the
a sharp battle off the coast of
hand of the law on King this morn
iner a.-nd arrflatftd him on the charge
Doosted Mrs. Wallentas assessment Kelgium yesterday. The Brit- of embezzlement.
anoiner Jiu.nu. I - , . , . , , . ." . I m. h tvtt- KJntr y,a a. cuitcnso
. . ..." I ln f iiTT"! I TSS 1 T"r 'nttirtQ nannnfn . - - r
un ine list or 114 tne assessors .- 1 ,ji i (J i io i v,.. nionnin a
TV..IJ ' . . . . J . . . " ' tilCJIl -...-e,
I"""c,u uciu omatea Mrs. wanenta s property at IOUP men WOUnded, Willie the Journey . to "parts unknown." The
wnicn nas oeen tne center oi tne norse S37,860 The assessors this year in- ffi j l ,f af prnpnt fnTrl np.;n I arrival of Deputy Tomlinson inter
business here for many years, will creased the valuations of her property U111Clal Slalement lrom i!erln runted their honeymoon plans.
King had been employed by Harry
Saunders, owner of the Stratford
Steam Laundry. For the last year,
he is alleged ' to have failed to , make
returns for money collected on de
liveries. A warrant was issued by
be taken over on that date by William to $42,360 Mrs. Wallenta was satis- SSVS the German wfHshin "n'f
and sales stable at 64 Kossuth street, make no complaint,but,when she noti- lelt3U onlY unimportant dam-
The room vacated on Kossuth street fled City Clerk Robinson, who is one age.
by the Hickman stables will be used of her tenants, that she proposed t6 : A nnnnfo t
to increase the SDacexnow taken by vine Viis. rent ss npr month h raised -n.LLUUllls vary US lO tne num
Liveryman WUliam J. Stiegler, who a howl. 1 ber and class Of Warships in- Prpmitnr ivnt, Jtnrehonse. Saiurtfav.
wm upium iu aasi u uu.. fie wroxe M.rs. w anenia mat ne con- VQ jye(j mv,e Rpitish offifp savi and was given to Deputy Tomlinson
xne passing or Mr. eenan iram siaerea tne increase in rent unrair. , but he was unable to find King. He
the stable business in this city marks Shortly afterward the board of relief IOUr .British destroyers engaged heard the wedding bells today, how-
.o 7 epu m m8 urmsepur,. era. ujl nonnea mrs. w anenta inai an aaai- three German destroyers while ever, and went to the scene of the
th horse. tional $10,440 had been tacked on the . , ' W" iC ceremony in time to make an arrest.
Inthe days when Mr. Keenan en- assessment of her property. As it oerlin reports tnat tiiere Were Town Clerk Harold C Lovell arid
tered the employ of P. H. Brqnson as stands in the final accounting made three German torpedo boats Assistant Clerk May Morehouse were
a foreman of the yard, there were by the .board of relief, Mrs. Wallenta ... , , witnesses at the wedding.
many fine racing horses in this city, is now taxed for $52,800 in real estate, ctiigiicu dgdlllbl IlveunilSIl aes
the care of which and thev no-keen 1 This is an increase of $14,940 over tummpo
n ! . I n 1 T I - WT... tha
Quired trained and delicate handling, action of the board of relief in in- Both Berlin and London
The pride of ownership in a fine ani-1 creasing her assessment $10,440 Mrs. statements Claim"" that the en
mal was pronounced and the rivalry I Wallenta employed Attorney xsraei j,
for the title of Speed King was keen, j Cohn to appear
Bridgeport then did not have the I protest. -
rapid connection wih the .country that j Today,; Clerk Thomas F. White said
is 1 1 L w - prwvaiea iy ixio rouruous, i cuum nut reuiciuuci v.v-. i -The Sritish 'Version
tinllAv llna anil mntnrhiiflpa T- n.nn- I Ca.-nt William VA IewiS. nresident of I
snniiAnr. tho hrmen' vrt1 wr a tb e board who is now an inspector of London, March 21 An engagement
irht wkII -amh. aivd tb tnr. huildlne- hf he new Stratford ayenae occurred yesteday off the Belgian
ter and sale of produce was actively bridge, said he guessed the members coast between foui British and three
transacted in the stables. Many po- of the board thought the increase was German destroyers. Two of the Ger-liti-ai
xnnfr.T, luhrvitnUnuTaBtedii.' been man vessels were hit. Four men on
U!(i td. m,t.,f.fnm nfflo. made. luw uoaw. weie- wouiumsu.
LMdotAr. ticrv, I in tb meantime Citv Clerl Robin- I xne omciai account or tne ngnting
sleighing was. at lts height the. stables son will not pay the increased rent and follows: ;
before the board and emy ships fled after sustaining
several direct hits. '
witnesses at the wedding.
The 'now Mrs. King is the young
woman who collapsed several days
ago in the plant of the American
Graphophone Co., when, seized with a
fainting spell.
FACTIONAL ROW
IN STRATFORD
LICENSE FIGHT
is looking for another flat. ,y
were much-visited.
Through -" all of these scenes Mr.
Keenan has passed and as a. foreman
gainl such prominence that when, in
1896, he broached . the project-of go
ing into business for himself, ' Mr.
Bronaon suggested that they form a
partnership. This lasted until the
death of the original owner- of the
stables. After his demise. Mr. "Kee
nan ran the. stable under his own
name. I
Recently it has had a. large patron
age from the undertaking establish
ments throughout the city, furnishing Amendment
a. large part or the Coach equipment
that is seen today at local funerals.
Though the automobile has gradual
ly crept into prominence, Mr. Keenan
is a staunch advocate of the horse
for both pleasure and business pur
PRESIDENT GETS
POWER JO CALL
OUT RESERVISTS
lift Movement?
iicsieruay morning lour - tsnusn i.o tile -xaAuajcxij xsxw.p-r , v
aesiroyers signtea tnree German I -r, en.4ol TTn
destroyers off the Belgian coast. The JSUUo v-rctuip ui wuxax s jj
German destroyers at once turned and
ran for Zeebruggge chased by our
destroyers. .
"Shots -were exchanged. During
this short running fight two enemy
boat were observed to have been hit.
i uur casualties were . four men
wounded."- '' '
to Hay
of New Branch.
Those -doughty warriors of the More-
hduse and Feci? political factions of
Stratford engaged in trench warfare
at the county court house this morn
ing and when the curtain of fire lifted,
a victory was claimed by Gen. More-v
house. The Peck followers say they
retreated for purposes of strategy and
would renew the attack in the near
The German Version.
Berlin, March 21 The German ad
Bill f mlralty account of the battle between future.
I I'.rltiyh rtpatrnvprn nnrt OprTYian tnr. I - , -, x i
, ,. f-m n J I me cause or xno war wets txio io
GlVeS EXeCUtlVe OOntrOl pedo boats, off the Belgian coast fol- monstrance made against the Indus
lows: . tr-il TaitnnvRrs' Improvement club of
on Marcn zu, ore me coast r Stratford, which has applied to the
Flanders, a fight which was successful county commissioners for a club 11-
Washington, March 2r The first for us took place Detween tnree CJer- I quor license. The club is composed
i n
PresiSient and Cabinet Decide to Accept Carran
zista Proposal For Protocol Covering Actions i
In Pursuit of Villa Band Government Troops
Rout Bandits in Sharp BattleFunston Awaits
Report From Cavalry Troops in Mountain
Passes American Aviator Hurt.
Washington, March 21--President Wilson and his cabinet
today decided to accept the proposal for a protocol between the"
United States and the de facto government of-Mexieo for co-
operation in the pursuit of General Villa and his outlaws.
Carranzistas Bout Bandits
Torreon, Mex., March 21 Government troons have routed
a band of Villa followers at Trinidad, killing 18 men and cap-
turing sixteen saddle horses. They pursued the bandits as far
as Jimulco.
-General Funston Awaits Beport
San AntOnip, Tok., March 21 Failure to hear from Gen
eral Pershing sharpened the interest of those at General Fun
ston's Headquarters today. lt was pointed out that the cavalry
detachments last night, moving along three trails south of)
Gasas Grandes were out of. direct communication and that
General Pershing himself probably would not receive the re-!
n it .1 J.li l-i - -i
pons oi inose in commana until aiier consiaeranie aeiay.
AyiATORS HELP
EXPEDITION IN
HUNTING VILLA
poses, and, expresses the opinion that I action of the House today in taking man torpedo boats and a division of chiefly of members of the faction
it will be ' many years before it is I up for further "consideration the Hay I five Britishx destroyers. v ' bossed by Judge Charles H. Peck ' of
finally driven from the city.
NAPE DATE FOR
THIRTEENTH OF
MOLL HEARINGS
Something ought to happen next
Tuesday. At 2 o'clock in the after
noon the 13th hearing on the applica-1 the measure now stands, the Presi
army reorganization bill was to adopt
without debate an amendment to
give the . President absolute control
over the reserve of 6.0,000 men.
The ' bill originally provided that
authority must be granted by Con
gress before the reservists could be j
mobilized. An acendment offered by
Representative Kahn, of the commit
tee, and accepted by Chairman Hay,
puts reservists under the orders of the
Secretary of War tp .be sent to any
point when the call ''to the colors' goes
out. , . . . '
The amendment is the most impor
tant addition to the bill yet made. A.s
lion ror tne removal of Gustave A.
Moll,- as conservator of his mother.
dent would have authority : without
consulting- Congress to increase the
(Continued on page 4)
BASEBALL PARK
LEASE RENEWED
FOR TWO YEARS
. ' ..
O'Rourke Wants
Theresa Moll will begin. ' By many army from 140,000 fighting troops
persons 13 is regarded as an, unlucky to 175,000 and also to summon to the
number. Whether it will be unlu6kv 1 colors the 60,000 reservists, which
for Mr. Moll or for his sisters, There- ( the bill contemplates will be provided
sa Oberly or, Lilly t Thorpe who have I within four years.
Drought the application to have him The House rejected a proposal by
removed as conservator, remains to I Representative Anthony, of Kansas,
be seen. Anyway Judge Paul L. I to recruit an additional infantry regi-
Miller of the probate court has made Lment in Porto Rico for service in the
provision to carry the hearing beyond f Panama Canal Zone or elsewhere.
the supposed period of ill-luck and
has reserved all next Wednesday for
the continuance of the hearing.
Thi3 probably will be the last hear
ing on this now famous case. - Mr.
Moll s last accounting showed his
mother's estates as $8,052.60. On
July 20, 1915, Mrs. Oberly and Mrs.
Thorpe made joint application to the
probate court for the removal of their
brother as conservator claiming that
their mother was ill-treated and that
they were denied the privilege of see
ing her. Since then there-'have been
12 long drawn out hearings before the
probate court. At several of these
hearings the famous alienist. Dr. A.
R. Dief endorf was called to testify.
He had been appointed by the court
to examine Mrs. Moll.
THE WEATHSB
ZiOcal snow or rains tonight, Wed
eedar partly cloudy, moderate shift
4ng winds.
Fairfield Woman
Gets Damages From
Bridgeport Couple
. Judge Walsh of the common pleas
court gave a decision today in which
he awarded C. Antoinette Fiske Me re
news of Fairfield, damages of $459.27
in a suit she brought against Albert
and Carrie DeLemos of this city. It
was alleged that in 1897 the defend
ants .sold property in Mount Vernon,
N. Y., to Edna Bibbins of this city,
representing that the property was
free from encumberances. After
wards it was found there were taxes
and other claims amounting to $304.61
against the property. Edna Bibbins
assigned her claim to Mrs. Mere
ness. . " . '
Mr. Kahn then - proposed as an
amendment a provision in the Senate
bill that irhile the enlistment period
should remain fixed three years with
the colors and four years in reserve,
commanding officers might discharge slightly increased.
peculiarly ' efficient men into the re
serve after ong year of training and
"The enemy broke off the engage- Stratford and those who remonstrated
ment after he had received several I are affiliated with the faction headed
by Prosecutor Ivan L. Morehouse.
As soon as the county commission
ers opened: the .hearing Prosecutor
Morehouse called their attention to the
fact that Attorney Jojn J. Corr, who
is liquor prosecutor for Stratford, was
representing the club. Prosecutor
Morehouse said this was contrary to
the ethics of the legal profession. At
torney Corr maintained that as the
club had not been accused of any
crime and was merely asking for its
rights under the law he was entitled
to represent the organization.
rPTi r-r wpro nnlv two mfimhfirs of the
Freeman club on hand so Attorney Corr asked
tO Have thanCe tO XteCOUP members had not been notified in tlmo
TTi Tm.n4- T to be present at the hearing. Prose-
so Attorney Corr withdrew the appli
The report that the Newfield base- cation. It is understood that the ap-
ball park was to be cut up into build- plication will be renewed later.
ihg lots was shattered today when it The members o the club claim their
was learned that the Bridgeport base- I organization was formed to educate
ball club has just effected a renewal foreign born residents so they will be
of the lease on the property from "come worthy citizens of the United
Attorney James H. O'Rourke. the own- Mates and Stratford. the Morenouse
w. The renewal is for two vears and sympathizers say tne ciUD eaucares us
despite the fact that real estate values members only in the art of drinking
have taken a tremendous boom it is oottiea gooas.
i-onstaDie wuiiam js. jjasseit, a iur
mer president of the club, is one of the
remonstrants and it is even said that
Prosecutor Morehouse was formerly a
member. He said today .that his name
might still be on the list for all he
knew.
The Morehouse clan Ceclare Judge
U.S. AVIATOR
INJURED BY
50 FT.. FALL
Columbus, N. M.,-. March 21
A wireless yfrorri the field army
ays an aeroplane, one of six
to arrive today, was partially
wrecked in a 50 foot fall. : The
pilot, Lieut. T."S. Bowenwas
injured but not fatally.
understood that the rental ,was only
The Newfield park tract is ira
mensely valuable as it is -situated in
tfiif ativ BH trained man could go I the center of a desirable residential
into the reserve on his own applica- section with- frontage on Newfleld ave
tion at the end of two years' active nueu and Eagle street. Many build-
service. - ing lots could be obtained by dividing m-esented the Club house to the
.The amendment was defeated 113 this tract and it is understood that Ind rJ organization, which is lo-
to 108. The question win come up real estate experts nave ucen villus cated in the Hollister Heights section.
again in the conference committee as the property, with envious eyes. - a-nd they further charge that Judga
the Senate bill is almost certain to re- Mr. U'KourKe saia ne n&u leceiveu Peck holds an $800 mortgage on the
tain its provision. : I offers for the property but determined property. To add spice to the situa-
Encouraged by the narrow margin to give Owner John H. freeman of tion the clnh la located on Peace
which defeated the Kahn amendment, I the baseball club a renewal of the street, which leads one to think that
Representative Gardner, re-offered the lease in order that ne mignt regain the thoroughfare must have been
first proposition of that amendment I some of the -financial losses he suffer- I named on April Fool day.
in new language- It was carried 128 I ed in baseball in recent years.
to 117, being the first defeat for Chair
man Hay during preparation of the Democratic CaUCUS
bill.
Official denial was made of the re
port that President Pardo of Peru has
decided to resign because of ill health.
CHAIRMANSHIP
IS PUZZLE TO
G, 0. P. LEADERS
Chicago, March 21. The sub-com
mittee on arrangements of the Repub
lican national committee adjourned to
day without taking action on the elec
tion of a temporary chairman for the
national . convention here next June.
The mib-committee will meet again at
the call of the chair about the middle
of April.
To Speed Up Congress
Washington, March 21. To speed up
the administration's legislative pro
gram. Democratic Leader Kitchin at
the House caucus tomorrow will urge
every chairman to report his bills as
quickly as possible and will give no
tice that the minimum of time will be
permitted for general debate.
" President Wilson is urging short de
bate and frequent use of special rules
to" hurry legislation.
ARMY
AERO
IS MSSIN8
MARRIAGE LICENSE.
A marriage license was granted to
day to Frank Q. Alberta, 22, ticket
agent of Sojthampton. L. I., and Edith
Hastings, 19; of 1398 Main street. The
prospective bride has the consent of
her parents to wed.
Columbus, N. M., March 21 An aero
plane of the first aero squad is feared
to have been lost in flight,
j Captain Foulois, in command of the
squadron, today reports its failure to
arrive. Six machines arrived safely.
High winds have made army airmen's
tasks haardoMg. 5 ,
BARNUM CIRCUS
WILL LEAVE FOR
ROADMARGH 31
Headquarters In West End
Bustling In Preparation
' '' For Departure.
The Barnum & Bailey circus will
leave the winter quarters here for
Madison ' Square Garden, Friday,
March "31, to open, for rehearsal on
April 1. . '
Arrangements for the stay of the
troopers , in that, city are already be
ing made by advance agents of the
show, and rehearsals for a big pageant
the title of which has not been an
nounced, are said to be in progress.
It is known that Brooklyn, N. Y.,
will not be favored with a sight of
the tents. The show has bean rout
ed direct to Philadelphia as was done
for the first time in many years last
season.
At the winter quarters all is in read
iness for the departure. The ani
mal cages have been repainted and
gilded with thousands . of. dollars'
worth of the most expensive solid gold
leaf. The cars have : been overhaul
ed and new parts have been added to
insure safety during, the full year.
The ring performers have had a
busy two weeks practice in which
many new and novel tricks have been
staged. Most of the horses are shod
in ' preparation of the pulling that
will be necessary from, the .'Harlem
River terminals of the New Haven to
the ' Madison Square Garden. The
horses will then . be - reshipped to
Bridgeport until again needed "for the
Philadelphia tji p.
It . is expected this year that all
the camels and livestock kept at home
last, season for fear of foot and mouth
disease, will again . accompany the
show. '
El Paso. March 21 Aviaors c
the United Statesarmv .were report
ed today searching the almost blind
trails leading , to , the passes in the
Sierra Madre mountains, where Fran- 1
Cisco Villa may seek to escape after
ma ueieat Dy me uarranza torces
yesterday at Namiquipa.
Details of the fight in which Col.
Cano, with about 900 Carranzistas
took part, were lacking, "but it is re
ported that Villa was badly worsted
and that he- fled, leaving his ,dead
and wounded.' N " -
Captain E. B. Foulois who hails
from Washington, Conn., is in charge
of the seven aviators selected for the I
task of scouting for Villa, who, after ;
his fighting with Col. Cano, is ex- ;
pected "to scatter his bandits rather j
than risk an engagement with the j
American troops, who are said to bar 1
his way to the north. ; . '
"The army officers agree that if '
Vilja breaks up his command into
small , bands and turns to the Sierras
Madre' mountains as a hiding place,
it will be almost impossible to capture
him. Villa spent his early days as
an outlaw . in these mountains, the
passes through which an army and its
transport may not move. It takes 10 ,.
to 12 days to negotiate these tortu- j
ous passes into the Sonora district. I
Mexicans here believe Vi)Ia will hide '
himself away in, the mountain passes
until theAmerican troops have given
up the chase. t
Miner's Fire Gives
' Columbus a Scare
MISSOURI DEMOCRATS MEET
St. Joseph, Mo., March 21 Wheth
er U. a. Senator William J. Stone
would be named Democratic delegate
from Missouri was the principal sub
ject discussed today preliminary to
the opening of the state Democratic
convention. Friends of Governor
Major, made preparations to endorse
him as a candidate for vice-president.
Columbus, N. M., March 21 Every
organization of the United States army
at the Columbus -station is being rap
idly brought. (into condition for field
service. It was reported today that
additional troops vsoon will be called .
for service in northern Chihuahua. I
Information concerning the troops is ;
received here daily over the army j
wireless, the station being connected ,
with a field station at Casas Grandes. '
This information is relayed directly j.
to Alajor General Funston, depart
ment commander, at San Antonio, the i
censorship prohibiting anything be- ,
ing made, public here.
What little information leaks out j
here tells only of the forced and night i
marches. , ! -
Fears that Mexican bandits were i
about to make another t attack upon
Columbus, were expressed by residents
today . following the ;discovery . of.
smoke on one of the - peaks of the
mountains' - overlooking the town.
These fears were increased by reports
that . Mexican residents of the town
who had not been seen since the Villa
raid; had returned.
Investigation of the smoke, which
some citizens believed to be that of
a signal fire, proved to have been
caused by a mining prospector.
Gen. Funston Awaits
Reports on Conflict
PREMIER ASQUITH BETTER
London, March 21 Premier As-
quith, . who has been suffering from
bronchial catarrh, has so far recover
ed that he was able to preside at the
war council this morning. It is
doubtful, however, whether he is well
enough to attend parliament this
San Antonio, Tex., March 21 ICeen
interest was shown by officers at army
headquarters here today in every ru
mor concerning the fighting between
the forces of Francisco Villa and the
Carranza troops near Namiquipa,
towards which American troops were
advancing "last night.
The outcome of the engagement had
not been reported by General Pershing
and General Funston expected to get
his first hews from Mexican sources.
The latest official reports showed th
three detachments of General Persh
ing's force riding hard into the south.
The prospects for at least one of them
to get in contact with Villa appeared
bright.. Along the line of communi
cation and at Casas Grand.es enouph
troops have been held to furnish sup-
