1 I Hi -PI
Ml nearby, 28.Q0528.50; Juno and latop f v 7 V-X " ' WEATHER Utah: Fair and Cold- ; II
3B $27.0027.50. 1 WJ Bl
J . - -- - er Tonight; Wednesday Fair. j II
T ' ' HAS THE LARGEST PAID SUBSCRIPTION LIST IN OGDEN AND WEBER COUNTY. - ' ; " 11
! " YCar"N0' "' PriCC: RTaCmt OGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENINCTMARCft 21, 1916. Enterei a, s- ciafl3 Matter .t u po-re ogd, m ' II
i . i " - r 9
Mood Causes Death of One Man; I
j Renders Many Families Homeless 1
iOjjden River Overflows
Doing Much Damage
Hundreds Forced to Leave Their Homes and Many
Are Rescued by Police and Firemen One
Family With Chickenpox Taken From Quaranr
tine in the Flood Zone Canyon Traffic
Stopped Street Car Service Interrupted
Thousands View the Flood.
,
i ,
J Taking a toll of one life, that of
'j Peter Caicadacls, a Greek section
i hand, driving more than fifty families
from their homes, marooning several
hundred others, and devastating hun-
' dreds of acres of valuable residence.
farm and garden property, the most
disastrous flood in Ogden's history oc-
j curred last night, but at a late hour
today, the waters were subsiding.
The flooded districts is contiguous
i to the Ogden river which stream,
i .vollen by the heavy rain that be-
: gan to fall yesterday morning and
continued until an early hour today,
and the water from melting snow in
j the east mountains, broke from its
embankments about 1 a. m. and went
on a rampage.
The Glasgow addition, in the north-
j west part of the city was the first to
'; suffer from the flood waters, which
t poured over the banks of the river at
points several hundred yards east and
Immediately west of the Oregon Short
Line bridge. Within a brief space or
time, virtually the entire district was
covered with water from one to three
feet deep. Wakened from their slum
bers by the noise of the flood, sev
eral people whose homes had bjen
surrounded with water, sent the first
news of the unlooked for condition to
the city, telephoning to the police de
partment for aid.
Police Aid People.
Responding to the call in the police
patrol, Patrolman Walter Moore and
other memberB of the night shift, hur
ried to the scene and assisted sev
eral families to places of safety.
Among the families was that of
i George Price, 1786, Center avenue,
which was under quarantine for
chickenpox. The afflicted members
were carried through the water, to
j the tuto-patrol and then rushed to
j the police station. They were made
comfortable for the night, in the mu
nicipal court room and this morning
quarters were found for them by City
Health Inspector George Shorten, in
the old city hospital building on east
Twenty-eighth street.
Refuge was found for other fam
ilies on Center street, at the homes of
friends In different parts of the city.
William Price, one of the oldest
residents of the district, was carried
j from his home by his son. In speak
ing of the experience this morning,
the old gentleman said he had lived
In the Glasgow addition for twenty
seven years and that the present
flood was the moBt extensive he had
seen.
Man Falls Into Stream.
Shortly after the police began their
) activities, Superintendent R A.
i Pierce of the Ogden Union Railway
1 & Depot company, was notified of the
high water and before 2 a. m. had a
1 crew of section handB at the Oregon
1 Short Line bridge. Orders were giv-
I en at that hour for all Oregon Short
I Una trains to be held in the yards
until it was deemed safe for them
to cross the bridge and none were
Permitted to pass over the river until
! after 10 o'clock this .morning.
The section gang, under the direc
tion of Superintendent Pierce, James
ThurBton and Frank Telleson, busy
throughout the remainder of the
, night, keeping the east side of the
hrldge clear of tree trunks, branches
I and other debris to avoid the danger
' of the structure being swept away by
I the weight of the backed up water.
t It was while engaged in this work,
'; about 7:30 o'clock, that the only fa
tality thus far noted In connection
with the flood, occurred. Peter Cai
1 cadacls, the victim, was endeavoring
to raise a large branch of a tree
from the water at the east side of wo
Wdge. when he lost his footing ana
'ell into the swirling current. An ax
t tempt was made by bis fellow worK
. men to catch his clothing as he
. , Paused out from under the bridge at
the west side but without avail, tor
a distance of fifty feet, the tossing
1 body of the unfortunate man was
kept in view by his horrified fellow
laborers, and it then disappeared
from sight. An attempt was made to
recover the body, but the effort prov
ed fruitless.
Wrecking Crew Called.
Shortly after daylight, a wrecking
crew, with a steam crane, was sta
tioned at the bridge and, with this
equipment, the large tree branches,
roots and other floating timbers were
"snaked" from the water at both sides
of the bridge.
At 6 a. m the flood waters had
reached eastward from the Oregon
Short Line bridge to within a short
distance of Wall avenue, residents in
that locality still being able to navi
gate that thoroughfare without get
ting wet. An hour later, the situation
was entirely changed, as the waters,
backed up from the Oregon Short
Line track and bridge embankment,
had joined with the greater volume
that had broken the bounds of the
river bed east of Washington avenue
and covered the district from that av
enue westward to the Southern Pa
cific tracks and southward to Twenty
first street.
Began to Move.
Expecting the water to recede, the
people H-flTig in M'iCc vpier uwtrcd
territory, remained in their homes,
but within the next few hours, the
water had risen nearly two feet, in
creasing its south boundary, west of
Washington avenue, past the plants of
the American Can company and God
dard Pickle S- Preserving company, to
within a few feet of the Denver & Rio
Grande tracks on Lincoln avenue. The
residents then began to move out,
vngons, carts and automobiles being
pressed into service for this purpose.
Rafts Are Used.
West of Wall avenue, where the wa
ter around some of the residences
reached a depth of three feet, hastily
improvisd rafts were pressed into ser
vice and, watched by hundreds of in
terested sightseers, several families
were brought to a landing place on
the railroad track embankment.
Since noon cars were not allowed
to cross the Washington avenue
bridge.
Many Families Homeless.
Among the families living on Grant,
Lincoln and Wall avenues and on
West Twentieth street, who were
hauled from their homes during the
morning wero those of Henry Lutz,
superintendent of the Becker Brew
ing and Malting Company; John Geal
ta, chief engineer of the Becker Brew
ing and Malting Company; Hans Li
ible J W. Harbertson, Jr., James
Bingham, B. H. Wright, William Emp
ey Charles Hendershot, John Wil
liams Wm Bell, John Schouten, Mrs.
H M Becker, Peter Graven and the
Faulkners, Le Groot. Micklewalte,
Bacr Van Der Wohl, Burnett. Clarks,
Porter Turpln and Anderson. Num
erous 'others, from the Glasgow addi
tion,' also managed to get out during
the day.
Great Flood Area.
Viewed from the top of the Amer
ican Can Company's plant, the flood
waters could be seen as far as the
eye could reach, looking north, north
east and west
At tho Southern Pacific bridge,
with its clearance of more than 1
fVet above the river bed, a section
gang was kept In constant sen-ice
Siding floating debris between th
bridge supports. At 10 o'clock, the
water was brushing against the cross
Umbers of tho bridge, coming from
the east and backed up at this point,
iTtiSrad a. now channel against the
rack embankment and flowed north
ward t? 17th street, before Its vol
Z Was materially decreased Some
nfThe water was carried off into the
county districts through culverts at
different points along the track and
throush a junction with Mill Creek,
at the west end of Twelfth street,
also, swelling that stream to flood
height.
Tho tracks of tho Ogden, Logan &
Idaho railway company on Lincoln
avenue, between Nineteenth and
Twentieth streets, were covered to a
Ogden River Overflowing Its Banks Just South of the Washington Avenue Bridge.
depth of nearly 12 inches, but It was
not found necessary to suspend traf
fic. The Oregon ShQrt Line spur track
to the plant of tho Becker Brewing
and Malting company was, however,
rendered useless, being on lower
ground and under from 10 to IS inches
of water.
(Continued on Page 7.)
oo
GERMANS MAKE
Push French Further South To
, ward Border of Argonne
Rgioi -- Gapfcurcf f
25hMen.
j
RUSSIANS WIN FIGHT
Italians Resume Heavy At
tacks on Tolmino Bridgehead
and Austrians Capture
Position at Romson.
PariB, March 21, 12 noon. German
forces again made violent attacks in
the Verdun sector west of the Meuso
last night. The war office announced
today that the Germans had gained no
successes except that they obtained, a
slight footing southeast of Malancourt
wood.
East of the Mouse the night was
calm.
The text of the statement follows:
"In Belgium an enemy reconnais
sance along our lines north of Pont
Boesingho was at once driven- back
by a counter attack.
Active In Argonne.
'Tn 'the Argonne our artillery has
boon very active along the southern
border ot tho Cheppy wood.
"West of the Meuso, the Germans
last night renewed thetir attacks
against our front extending from Avo-t
court to Malancourt where tho bom
bardment by shells of large caliber
continued without Interruption. Th
attacks were accompanied by throw
ing of flaming liquid by detachmem
of men carrying special machines for
this purpose.
, Germans Gain Footing.
"In spito of tho heavy losses in
flicted by our fire, the enemy was
able to take possession, after hand-to-hand
fighting, of tho southeastern
part of Malancourt wood, known as
the Acocourt, which we occupied. All
the efforts of the Germans to march
outrom the Avocourt wood resulted
in failure.
"The night passed quietly on the
other sectors in the Verdun region."
Germans Take 2500 Prisoners.
Berlin, March 21, via London, 3:35
p. m. French positions northeast of
Avocourt wero captui-ed by the Ger
onTT v -took 2500 prlsoriers, "tlie'
'to , jffice announced today.
s 4j text of today's official state
mt? follows-
"West of tho Meuse Bavarian regi
ments and battalions of Wucrttem
berg Iandwehr after careful prepara
tions stormed the entire strongly for
tified French positions In and near
the forest northeast of Adocourt. In
addition to considerable sanguinary
losses, the enemy has so far incurred
losses amounting to 32 officers, includ
ing two in command of regiments, and
more than 2500 men in unwounded
prisoners and much war material, tho
amount of which has not yet been as
certained. French Heavy Losses.
"Counter attacks attempted by tho
enemy did not bring any advantage,
but on Uie contrary, inflictedfurther
serious losses upon him.
"East of the Meuso the situation is
unchanged.
"Eastern theater: Tho Russians
are extending their attacks on the ut
termost northern wing south of Riga
and, on tho Dvina front and west of
Jacob stadt. They were repelled with
sanguinary losses. Strong enemy re
connoitoring detachments advancing
against tho German front northwest
of Postavy and between Lakes Naroez
and Wlsznlew, delivered especially
strong and fruitless attacks through
out the day and night. Tho losses of
he enemy wore proportionate to the
number of troops employed.
"A far protruding narrow salient of
our front due south of Lake Naroez
has been withdrawn a few hundred
meters toward the heights of Bllsnlckl
to avoid the enemy's encircling fire.
"Balkan theater- Apart from un
important patrol engagements on the
lines of the Anglo-French front the
situation Is unchanged."
Germans Clp.lm Deadman's Hill.
Berlin, March 20, via London, March
21, 1-40 p. m. The unqualified asser
tion that the Germans are in posses
sion of Deadman's hill, northwest of
Verdun, is reiterated by the corre
spondent of the Tagcs Zeitung at the
Verdun front.
"Not only Hill 265, called Deadman's
Hill, but also the enemy positions on
Hill 295, Included under the designa
tion Deadman's Hill, are In German
JiandaMio says. 'The French neith
er hold nor command the position
German advanced posts are south of
the summit of Hill 295.
"According to German reports, the
French, whose maps designate Hill
205 as Deadman's Mil, began to give
this designation to Hill 295 when they
wero driven from Hill 265..
Constantinople, March 21, via Lon
don, 1 33 p. m. An official statement
given out by the Turkish war depart
ment says:
"Dardanelles: On tho afternoon of
March 19 a torpedo boat and a cruis
er shelled the neighborhood of Seddul
Bahr and Teke Burnu. The bombard
ment was unsucessful and the 3hips
retired.
"Yemen front- A British division
with two machine guns advanced in
the direction of El Salle, north of
Sheik Hosman and was attacked by
our troops which were sent out
against IL The enemy fled toward
Sheik Hosman.
Heavy Fighting on Italian Front.
Berlin, March 21, Wireless to Say
ville. Heavy fighting continues on
tho Austro-Itallan front. The official
Austrian statement of yesterday says
that Italian attacks broke down be
foro the Austrian fire. The announce
ment follows
"On the Gorlzla bridgehead Austro-
(Continued on Page Seven).
N
l jOgden River Overflowing Its Banks Just North of the Washington Avenue Bridge.
GEN. PERSHING SENDS WIRELESS
CALL FOR MORE U. S. TROOPS I
: I
Commander Funston Wires War Department for More Infan- 1)
try and Cavalry Prompt Action Expected Funston I
Wants Adequate Force to Protect Line of Communi- H.
cation Which Is Now Over 100 Miles Long. v.. ' II
IB,
' Be
San Antonio, Texas, March 21. General Funston today i ( M
asked the war department for additional troops to be used in . j I
the campaign against Villa. He did not state the number but j E
explained he wanted an adequate force of infantry and cavalry I Ij
to protect the line of communication, already more than 100 ! 1 1
miles long. ' H i
He received no further news from General Pershing. H
Washington, March 21 Brigadier-General Pershing has j
asked for more infantry to keep open the lines of communica- 1 1 j
tion behind his flying columns. Major-General Funston has j Iff
forwarded the request to the war department and it has been ' I fill
taken under consideration. . ' HI
II
El Taso, Tex.. March 21. Francisco
Villa and his band of outlaws have
been forced Into another battle with
the Carranza troops near. Las Cruces.
This Information came as a report by
wireless today to the United States
army station at Columbus, N. M., and
It was further said that American
troops had been dispatched to Las
Cruces. to aid In the fighting.
Tbe fighting at Las Cruces, follow
ing the engagement at Namiquipa yes
terday, indicates that tho Carranza
troops are pressing Villa hard In his
flight northward along the Santa
Maria river and that the outlaw may
soon be forced to stand and give bat
tle to the American troops now mov
ing southward.
Running Fights Expected.
The American and do facto govern
ment troops are drawing- the cordon
cioser around the elusive Villa and
within a few days, army officers here
bolleve it will be known whether Vil-
la Is to meet his fate in battle or
baffle his pursuers by a successful es
cape into the Sierra Madre. A se
ries of running fights Is anticipated.
The telegraph wire's were cut some
where north of Casas Graudes today
and Carranza officials here were with
out details of the Namiquipa battle,
In which Colonel Cano whipped the
outlaw. Roving bandits that scattered
from the main Villa command on its
flight south after the massacre of
Columbus, are believed to have cut
the wire communication. Communi
cation may not be restored for some
time and Information of Villa's move
ments will have to come by wireless
to the United States army base at
Columbus to be transmitted to Major
General Funston, the department
commander at San Antonio.
Carranzlstas Pushing North.
With the Carranzistas pushing
steadily from tho north and the two
American columns moving southward,
Villa can only turn Into the mountain
ranges on his flanks should he try to
nvold battle. If tho outlaw decides
to flee Into the mountains he will
probably break up his command into
small bands, leave them to their own
devices and turn Into tho puzzling
trails of the Sierra Madres, which he
knows so well.
Marion Letcher, the United States
consul at Chihuahua, telephoned to
Consul Garcia at El Paso that the re
ports about anti-American demon
strations in Chihuahua were all false.
Such reports wero circulated along
tho border, he had heard, at the time
of Carranza's manifesto before the
crossing of American troops had been
settled by the two governments. Dur
ing the crisis, said Letcher, the Mex
ican people kept calm and showed
great tact. No trouble of any kind
occurred then nor has any taken
place since.
Will Rush Supplies.
In army circles today it was said
that within twenty-four hours after
word was received that Mexican rail
ways could be utilized by the Amer
ican troops, supplies could be ruBhod
south to General Pershing in huge
quantities.
No word has been received hero of
agreement between Washington and
the Mexican government but General
Bell has made every preparation for
quick loading supplies when railroad
transportation becomes possible.
The Mexlco-Northwestorn is the
road that would be used if tho Car
ranza government assents to the
United States' proposal.
Speed In transportation is expected
because scores of American engineers
who formerly worked In Mexico and
now aro living here have volunteered
to man tho trains if consent Is given
to use tho railroad. These men knew
; II
the road like a book and are said to KjjJ
bo far superior to the Mexican engl- , Klft
iu-ers. ' Km
- ' (Vi!
Pershing Not Heard From. KS
San Antonio, Texas, March 21. Wj
Failure to hear from General Persh- j wf
Ing sharpened the Interest of those i B
at General Funston's headquarters to-
day, but did not arouse any anxiety. I Bill
It was pointed out that tho cavalry Kil
detachments last night reported mov- Ijl
Ing along three trails south of Casas lj
Grandes were out of communication ' He
other than that maintained by tho ' Bl
men of the signal corps and that Bjl
General Pershing himself probably ; Bjl
would not receive tho reports of those , B 1
In command until after considerable 1 Mm
delay. ' 1 B I
i ' Blli
Border School Closed.- "' ( K
Clinton, Texas, March 21 Fears that Mil
Mexicans might make an unexpected l9
raid resulted In the closing of the If
schools today at Fabens, a border Bjl
town opposite the Mexican village of HI
Guadalupe. Captain Moses, in com- mm
mand "of United States company ot life!
Infantry here, advised Dr. RIckert that MM
as a matter of precaution he should Hj
remove his family from the border. Hj
The school teacher, heeding Captain ' Bjfj
Moses advice, promptly closed tho H
school. Hi
Villa to Join Zapata, Hfg
Billings, Mont., March 21. Villa is l
trying to reach and cross the Sierra BJj
Madre mountains in an effort to join Hi
forces with Zapata, the rebel leader IjU
operating in the southern part of ' III
Mexico, according to an opinion ex-
pressed today by Dr. S. C. Arnold, HI
chief surgeon for Villa In 1914-15, who HI
has arrived here from Mazatlan. Hu
Dr. Arnold said Villa would find Hk
40,000 men under Zapata. In the In
event he succeeded In getting into Hi'
Southern Mexico, Dr. Arnold asserted, , Bl
United States forces could get at tb Bl
bandit only through Vera Cruz. i ' KJ
SINN FEINS RIOT I
AT TULLAMORE 1
Three Police Wounded in Raid II
Society Waging Vigorous ; II
Campaign Against Re- If!
; cruiting in Ireland. il
London, March 21, 12:35 p. m. Sinn HB
Fein rioters fired on the police last Br
night. Three of the police were Bl
wounded. ' Ht
The rioting occurred at Tullamore, t 'IK
King's county, Ireland. A police ser- J H
geant was wounded seriously and a j wBl
county Inspector and a district in- H
spector received slight wounds. H
Tullamore, a town of 6000 inhabl ; HI
tnnts Is 58 miles west of Dublin. , H
There have been intimations of dls- ( ,
turbed conditions in parts of Ireland ( H
in several recent dispatches. On I H
March 14 the police of Cork raided j H
the residences of the principal offl- j H
cials of the Sinn Fein party and. ; i
seized arms and documents. ' , H
The London Post last week Bald the I H
situation in Ireland was serious on ; j H
account of the activity of the Sinn H
Fein society. It asserted a vigorous . jH
campaign against rocruiting was being , H
carried out without serious hindrance H
in the west and south and that several H
persons had been indicted and tried, '
but had been acquitted. 'H
jcbbii !,11,ialMI"l,B!lll-',IIMai""-B iMBa"il"B"!iiiSIBii ' 1 1
i 1 THF PI IRIIC IS CORDIALLY INVITED TO ATTEND A m -,-,.- M . --.?- . -, By CLARECE C. EATON, C. S. B. Member of the Christian Science Board of fl
fP I intru-u- W1J IJ A I CbIF!VIb,P Lectureship of The Mother Church The First Church of Christ, Scientist, In Boston Mass I '
Tl "?'0'l7l, I F f Til R F OFI Vl llmltD 1 lAII -)VIILlllV L UNDER AUSPICES OF FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, SCIENTIST, OGDEN, UTAH 1 1 '
j! I t KEjt iJLi'U.JLi JLJJLI miw mi "J bS --1 TIX-IL Church EdIficCf 24th Street and Monroe Avtf. Tuesday, March 21st, 1916. 8:00 P. M, I
i, " , , ------- " IB
M! L f MmS? j
B" mkKK"? I
