THE BARRE DAI LY TIME
S
VOL. XX NO.
5.
HARRE. VERMONT, TUESDAY', MARCH 21, 1010.
PRICE. ONE CEXT.
TAKE ISPAHAN
' IN INVASION
OF PERSIA
Russia's Hordes of Soldiers
Are Overrunning Coun
try and Arc Much Fur
ther . Southward Than It
Had Been Heretofore Re
ported
ARE 200 MILES SOUTH
OF TEHERAN NOW
On the Bukowina Front the
Russians Have Thrust
Back the Austrians -The
Italians Lost Many Men
at Tolmino Violent At
tacks Made a Slight Gain
for Germans in France
London, March 21. A Router dispatch
from Teheran aayg that Russian forces
entered Ispahan, the old capital of Per
sia, on March 19.
Ispahan is one of the most important
cities of Persia. 200 miles southeast of
Teheran. The foregoing dispatch indi
cates that the Russian movement is fur
ther W the south than hitherto report
ed. The army now reported at Ispahan
is evidently workinir southward from
the main Russian feces in the direction
of the Persian gulf.
2,500 FRENCHMEN
TAKEN BY KAISER
at hill 304 and in the region of the Boia
Bourrus.
"Fact of the Meuse and in the Woevre
artillery activity has lieen intermit
tent. "Last night our Nimhing aeroplane
uriippeii x.t aliens on the railway aiauon
at Dun-Snr-Meuse where important
! movement of troops had been reported.
All the projectiles reached tho objects
I aimed at.
"This morning one of our pursuing
aeroplanes brought down in the region of
Verdun an enemy machine which fell In
side our lines."
TWO HITS MADE
BY BRITISHERS
IN SEA ACTION
1,070 ITALIANS
WERE CAPTURED
AT TWO POINTS
Heavy Fighting on Austrian Border Con
tinues and Austrian Statement
Claims Italian Attacks '
Broke Down.
Berlin, via wireless. March 21. Heavy
fighting continues on the Austro-Jtalian
front. The oilicial Austrian statement
of yesterday says that Italian attacks
broke down before the Austrian fire. At
Tolmino Bridgehead !)2j Italians were
taken prisoners and the number of ma
chine guns taken was increased to sev
en. At Romson the Austrians captured
a position and 145 Italians and two ma
chine guns.
Four Destroyers Gave Chase
to Three German Destroy
ers, Which Ran for Pro
tection of Their Nava
Base at Zeebrugge on the
Belgian Coast
M. II. IIILLECAS
BECOMES HEAD OF
VERMONT SCHOOLS
FOUR BRITISH SEAMEN
WOUNDED IN CLASI
MORE RESTRICTIONS
PUT ON BRITISI
Luxuries Cut Off By Proclamation Just
Signed By King George Barred
Importations Include Au
tomobiles, Player-,
pianos.
London, March 21. Further restric
ions on the importation of luxuries were
mposed to-day. At the meeting of tho
invy council, King George signed
proclamation prohibiting the bringing in
of automobiles, motor cycles, various mu
sical instruments, such as player-pianos
nd phonographs, and spirits and other
trong drink, with the exception of bran
dy and rum.
Berlin War Office Announces Important
Capture of French Positions North
of Avocourt.
Berlin, via London, March 21. French
'positions northeast of Avocourt were
oaptured by Germans who took 2,500
prisoners, the war office announced to
day. AUSTRIANS SENT
BACK IN RETREAT
BY RUSSIANS
Were Forced to Evacuate Their Bridge
head Fortifications North of
Uscieczko on the Dneister
River.
London, March 21. Austrian forces
operating northwest of Uscieczko on the
Dneister river, the Bukowina border,
were forced by the pressure of the Rus
sians to evacuate the bridgehead fortifi
cations and abandon their transports.
Under cover of night they succeeded in
reaching the Austrian advance posts
northwest of Zale Scr.eyky, north of
Czernowitz, according to the Austrian
official statement to-day.
BELGIUM GETS PROMISE
That She May Participate in Peace Ne
gottations.
London, March 21. The entente allies
have promised Belgium she will be in
vited to participate m peace negotta
tions.
"IMMEDIATE PEACE"
SMALL GAIN
BY GERMANS
WEST OF MEUSE
Violent Attacks Delivered Last Night in
Defenses of Verdun Yielded a Slight
Footing . Southwest of Malancourt
Wood, Says a .Paris. Report.
Paris, March 21. The German forces
again made violent attacks in the Ver
dun region, west of the Meuse, last
night. The war office announced to-day
that the Germans had gained no success
except that they obtained a slight foot
ing southwest of Malancourt wood. East
of the Meuse the night was calm.
Paris, March 21. Another powerful
German attack, this time between Avo-'
court and Malancourt, west of the Meuse,
resulted yesterday in heavy losses to the
Germans, according to the oilicial com
munication issued by the French war of
fice last night.
A fresh division brought up from a
distant point was used in this operation
which was characterized by the employ
ment of jets of liquid flame. At one
Is Suggestion in Cablegram Received at
Galveston, Texas.
Galveston, Texas, March 21. "Imme
diate peace is in sight," is one sentence in
a cablegram received yesterday from
London bv a Galveston shipping firm,
cancelling arrangements made for char
tering a considerable amount of tonnag'.
It is understood that negotiations for
chartering a number of small steamers
for the handling of lumber had been vir
tually closed when the cablegram came
cancelling the agreement.
The firms involved in the transaction
are of high standing. The person giving
out the cablegram to-dav declined to
give the names of the concerns for pub
lication. Well informed circles here say
there is no reason to doubt the sincerity
of the London firm in the belief regard
ing peace.
IRISH RIOTERS
FIRED ON POLICE
Police Sergeant and Two Inspectors Re
ceived Slight Wounds in Trouble
at Tullamore, King's County,
Last Night.
London, March 21. Sinn Fein rioters
fired on the police at Tullamore, King's
county, Ireland, last night. A police ser
geant was wounded seriously and two in
spectors received slight wounds.
Fight Occupied but a Short
Time, and the British Pa
trol Was Unable to Over
haul the Germans, So
Quickly Did the Latter
Dart for Protection
London, March 21. An engagement
occurred yesterday off the Belgian coast
between four British and three German
torpedo boat destroyers. Two of the
German vessels were hit. Four men on
a British boat were wounded. The off!
cial account of the action follows:
"Yesterday morning four British
destroyers sighted three German de
stroyers off tho Belgian coast. The
Germans immediately turned and
ran for Zeebrugge, cluised by our de
stroyers. Shots were exchanged and
(luring the short running tight two
enemy boat were observed to have
been hit. Our casualties wero four
men wounded."
GERMANS CLAIM
VICTORY AT SEA
Say That Five British Destroyers Fled
Before Three German Destroyers
After Having Received Sev
eral Direct Hits.
Berlin, via London, March 21. A Ger
man account of a battle off the Belgian
coast say! ...
"On March 20, off the roast of
Flanders, a fight successful for us
took place between three German
torpedoiv boats and a division of
five British destroyers. The enemy
broke off the engagement after he
had received several direct hits, and
steamed out of sight at full speed.
We suffered on lv unimportant dam-age."
Columbia University Man Who Prepared
1914 Report for Carnegie Founda-'
tion Selected By State Board
of Education to Succeed
M. S. Stone.
Burlington, March 21. The Vermont
state hoard of education ha pHintcd
Prof. Milo II. HilU'gas of the teacher
college, Columbia university, New ork
as state commissioner of education, to
succeed Mason S. Stone, who resigned
some months ago but consented to re-
main until an appointment had been
mode- for the position. Professor II ill-
gas will assume his new duties on June
Professor Hillega is the man who
made a reiiort for the t. arnegu Founda
tion on elementary schools in Vermont
in 1014, said report having been submit
ted to the legislature. Me actit some
weeks in ermont gathering material for
tlie report.
Jt is interesting to note at tins, time
the opinion which was formed bv llille
gas during that investigation. lie said:
A new course of study is needed.
The steps that have been inken in this
matter are mainly in the right direction
It is not possible for any one person to
bo so fully acquainted with all parts of
the state that Me can make a course
suited to all conditions. Since the course
of studv is such an important factor in
nstruetion it should be made by those
primarily concerned with instruction;
namely, the teachers and superintendents
with the advice and direction of the
state board of education. For this pur
pose experienced teachers and suiierin
tendents from all parts of the state
should be organized into committees and
brought together at an earlv date, in
order that the general principles that
hall govern the making or the course
may be fullv explained and illustrated.
Not less than two years should be al-
owed these committees in which to pre
pare atentative course, which should
then be published and tried in the schools
for a year in order to remedy its effects
before final adoption.
"There should be at least two separate
courses, one for the nyal schools and
one for the graded schools. Much of the
subject matter in these two courses
would be the same, but the suggestion
and applications should vary greatly.
he various cities anil unions might add
ppropriate mollifications. This method
of making- a course of study will require
careful consideration of all of the con-
itions surrounding the schools, and will
result in course adapted to the needs of
ermont. Incidentally, it will greatly
benefit all of those who take part in the
work of their preparation."
The members of the state board of
lucation are: James Hartness of
pringfield, chairman; Frank H. Brooks
of St. Johnsburv, Rev. A. V. ITewitt of
la infield. L. B. Johnson of Randolph.
Wallace If. Gilpin of Barton and 51. C.
Webber of Rutland.
TWrO WOMEN SHOT,
ONE MAY DIE
U. S. AVIATORS
SEEK VILLA
(Vtrranut troopa had refused to fight
Villa and had withdrawn on the bandit'
approach, leaving him free to pas into
his favorite iiioiintain futne. This
detachment withdrew on receipt of a
message that he was warring not on
Mexican but the tnemiei of Mexicans.
REPORTS A BATTLE.
Are Searching Out the Ob- But Gener1 GaviM ' Ver t0
scure Trails to Moun- .vt ,,..,. . ' , ,
I T.l i M"( ...N..II 1. I IIC I1HITB 111 V.UI.
tain PaSSeS Caino were engaged in battle at 4:30
yesterday aitenioou witti iiainins led by
Villa in Xaiiiiijuipa, according to a dis
patch received yesterday afternoon by
(I...-. I - 1 A
CTfTJI) A If Annr mct ue.ierai uwi, imrunm i-ui hikiuiii.
lUrtlJAD iUlO. at Juarez Tho result t.f the fbhtinu was
AT7P T T TO TIAVPM no decided at the time of the receipt
nlkij llLO v of the dispatch. Naini.inipa is iu the dis
trict of Guerrero, state of (liihualiua.
(V1. ('anno is in command of a force
of DIM) cavalry which came in contact two
If He Reaches Them, It Will t Klvlle ftu,u,T?'-
llll 41 'Ml 1,11 IB VV LD It'll iH'U fllliiUUV g lilg
Be Difficult to Find '
Himr
battle.
HAD REACHED 97th YEAR.
Kl Paso, Tex., March 21. Aviators of
the United State nrmy reported to-day
! Mrs. Marenda R. Dodge Died in Montpel-
ier Last Evening.
Death removed one of the oldest resi-
NOT WHOLLY DOWN
CAST OVER DEFEAT
they were searching the almost Mind u' nl01 .Monipeiier last evening wi.en
trails leading to the passe in the Sierra th home of ll(r Mrs. Adelia
Jladre mountains, where ill may seek (j. Templeton, 235 Kim street, at the ad
to escape after his defeat by Carran.a vanced age of 07 years. Despite her age,
forces yesterday at Namiquiira. The de- Mr- ledge's decline was gradual and
Uils of the fight are lacking to-day, but he 'nl'ne? f the b less
.. . . .. month. She had, however, been partially
it is reported that ilia was badly blind anJ d,,af for the t flv'e
worsieu anu mat, ne neu, leaving nis winch debarred hor from such enjoy
dead and wounded. I ment as she might have had.
Armv officers airree that if Villa breaks . T1C deceased was born March 21, 1810,
up his comnmnd into small band and Waintree, the daughter of lliram and
turns to the Sierra MAlre mountains as Kebekah Merrick Basa, one of a family
a hiding-place it will be almost impos- P. thirteen .children, of which three are
uble to capture him. Mexicans here be- nl,u "l'g. -orneuus xwss oi jjrainirec,
ieve that Villa will hide himself away in Rona B.-. Nelson of Sutton, N II., and
tlie mountain Dtfsses until the American ilr- Lucinda 13. Scott of llraintree.
troops have given up the chase. I Mr- Dodge resided in the homestead
IwiiH-n was given ner laincr, ne Deing me
first child born in Braintree, in 1790, and
ment trooos have routed a band of Villa 'r the period of 120 years, the same
followers at Trinidad, killing 18 men and family has occupied the homestead,
capturing 10 sadillo horses. They pur- The deceased was the wife of Nathan
sued the bandits as far as Jimulco. III. Dodge of Calais, and they resided in
that village for 45 years, she removing
Washington, D. C. March 21. War 18 years ago, following the death of her
lepartmenf dispatches to-day contained husliaml, to hast Moutpelier. there resid
no reports on fighting between Carranra ing with her daughter, Mrs. A. IL Tern
triHjps Hiid a Villa band, mentioned in pleton. Several years ago mother and
last night's border dispatcliea. A report daughter removed to Moutpelier. Five
from l'ershing, forwarded bv Funston, ohildren were born to Mr. and Mrs.
said C'arranza troops and civilians who Dodge as follow: Mrs. Mary R. Ding
had encountered the punitive e.xpendition wall, Don II. Dodge, Howard C. Dodge
had len friendly arid that the Mormon of Worcester, Dr. J. S. Dodge of Cuba
colony at Cases Urandes hailed the col- Und Mrs. Temi.leton. The last three stir-
umn as rescuers, ine war department vive. Don Do ire havinir passed awav in
reports maue no mention oi gatherings Montpelier a year ago.
BARRE MEN
BUY QUARRY
Incorporators of Littlejohn
& Milne, Inc., Pur
chase 3-4 Acres
WILL BEGIN WORKING
QUARRY AT ONCE
Plan to Conduof ..Operation
.isive
,on an E'
Sf
of C'arranza troojwi along the border and
spoke of no uneasiness.
U. S. AVIATOR HURT.
THREE CHECKS FORCED.
Arthur Duquette Alleged to Have Drawn
on a Brattleboro Bank.
Keene, X. H., March 2!. Arthur Du
quette of this city was in the municipal
Janitor of St. Botolph Street Building
is Arrested After Shooting of His
Wife and a Tenant.
Boston, March 21. Two women were
outided, one probably fatally, and a
third narrowly escaped being struck by
a bullet from a revolver in the hands of
a man apparently crazed with drink, at
129 St. Botolph street shortly before
noon yesterday. James Connor, janitor
of the building, was arrested on a charge
ot shooting with intent to kill his wile, lthe VTOr anj have been dropped from
Alice A. Connor, and Mrs. Janice Bever- ;t)le roll-Rev. K. P. Stevens of Rutland,
ly, a tenant in the building., (oiinor (PV, (j, n. Holt of Barre, Rev. K. E.
Vermont Anti-Saloon League Finds Some
Cause for Satisfaction in Election Re
sult in Vermont Local Organiia- .
tiona Failed to Do Work.
Burlington, March 21. The annual
meeting of the Vermont Anti-Saloon
league was held at headquarters here
to day with a large attendance of the 55
members of the board of trustees. The
feature of the meeting was the annual
report of the superintendent, Kev. Clif
ford H. Smith.
Mr. Smith, in his report said in part:
"The league hat had a great year, a year
of gratifying financial suport, of har
monious co-operation with other temper
ance organizations in the state, of varied
and unusual activities and of a final
smashing defeat, from which, neverthe
less, some crumbs of comfort may be ex
tracted. Like St. Paul, 'We are cast
down, but not in despair.'
"Five members of the board of trus
tees have removed from the state during
T. S. Bowen Fell SO Feet and Machine
Was Partly Wrecked.
Columbus, X. f!, March 21 j A wire
less from the field army saya an aero
plane was partially wrecked to-day by a
50-foot fall. TUot Lieutenant T. S. Bow
en was injured but not fatally.
The funeral will be held from the
house, 235 Elm street, Thursday after
noon at 2 o'clock and will be private,
Rev. L. H. Benedict, pastor of the Bap
tist church, officiating.
U. S. GOVERNMENT
AGREES TO PROTOCOL
Wilson and Cabinet Decided to Accept
Carranza's Proposal for a Work
' Agreement in Villa Pursit.
CLAIMS DAMAGES
FROM QUARRY OWNER
George Milne of Barre Testified That
E. R. Fletcher of Hardwick Hit Him
with Iron Pipe But Admitted He Had
Been Annoying Fletcher's People.
E. R. Fletcher of Ifiudwick, owner of
a Woodbury granite quarry, is the dc-
fendent in a $jOO damage suit brought
by Ueorge Milne of Barre, the trial of
which was commenced this forenoon in
Washington county court, which recon
vened at U o'clock after the regular
week-end recess. The following jury is
Following soon t er its incorporation,
the Littlejohn &. Milne Quarry Co., Inc.,
of Barre formed an organization and
purchased wI-aLwas formerly known as
tlie Littlejohn Milne quarry on Mill
stone hill, the transfer having been com
pleted last night and announcement o(
the same being niadn to-day.' The ineor
porn tors are Alex. Milne, Alfred C. Simp
son, John P. Corskie and John C. Booth,
and the capital stock named in the ar
ticles of association is $50,000. The sale
of this quarry is the thin! large deal to
take place in Barre quarry realty within)
a few months.- The purchase was made
from Alex. Milne and the W. S. Little
jolin estate.
The organization of the corporation!
was completed by the election of tha
following officers: President, Alex. Milne;
vice-president. Alfred C. Simpson; treas
urer, John P. Corskie; clerk, John C
Booth. All the men named are actively1
engaged in the granite business in this)
city at the present time und are recog
nized aa substantial business men.
Their plans as to the operation of the
quarry are not fully completed, but they
stated to-day that just as soon as tha
weather will permit they will begin
stripping the quarry for extensive opera
tions. The land consists of 34 acres lo
cated on the Websterville side of the
hill and up to the present time only
about three acres have been opened up.
The quarry was started by Littlejohn &
Milne 16 years auo and "more recently"
waa operated by George Libersont. For
the past year, however, it has not been
worked. The stock is light and medium.
At the present time there is equipment
enough in the quarry to permit opera
tions on a considerable scale, and, in ad
dition, there are sidings of the Itarre &
Chelsea railroad into the pit, which will
facilitate shipment just as soon as tha
men get to work. Details aa to the num
ber of men to be employed and the man
ager for the corporation have not as yet
been completed. The four officers above
named are the directors of the concern,
and the Barre Savings Bank & Trust Co,
la the banking headqxiarters. A grean
many large mausoleums have been turned
out from this quarry during the 16 years
of its operations.
DEATH OF BARTLEY ROACH.
also is charged with setting fire to the
gov
became known at the conclusion of a
conference between Kliseo Arredondo,
Mexican ambassador designate, and Act
ing Secretary Polk of the state depart-
Phillipa of St. Johnsburv, II. O. Wheeler ' ment. Negotiations on the details will
Washington, D. C, March 21. Presi
dent Wilson and his cabinet to-day de
hn th i'i,i st. .i tha hearing the case: A. E. White, Fred Dar
,i .,t.r.,rr,.. f rv.;,. f, filing, Ycrn Slayton, Martin S. Herbert,
operation in the pursuit of Villa and his JT, ,Va1tter8,1n' rw-, H- J,e1lo,1A- "
outlaws" toss, William R. Looley, John Osborn,
The terms of such a formal convention 'm,m 4.'e J'. "' Ay, , V
would be designed to meet all questions ne- 1 ie.fa,he 18 ""I'l"'.'
which may arise in the future setting 'ty court judgment beiug given in that
..,i, i, .:..i. ,.f i. 4 court for the defendant to recover his
lui hi fcitcr iiiiwi Hi'. aiuci luui C-V -I , r- , J 1 1
I . . . g . . IIM51S, ..1 1 I I H J3 ll-UlCTirill.ru I' f.
i- i; ..i.;..ft i i. Lt.... f tt, Sargent and the defendant by J. H , Ked
Ljautiii tuiriuiiii aim uic llAlum VI tun , c .
, . , ., . . , I mond of Newport.
wpr.Mu iM-v-u .rm umxwri ' Thp pIailttf was on the stand this
tho Carranza government. These facta , , - ' f , . , ,.,,
and Kev. H. A. Durfee of Burlington.
The total numlwr on the roll at the pres-
be in progressNieveral days, but the two
governments are in agreement on the
general principles involved.
The proposal for the protocol, which it
is planned to remain in force until ilia
is captured, came from Mr. Arredondo
house.
The two women are at the City hospi
tal. Mrs. Connor is shot through the ! ent time is 61
abdomen and probably will die. Mrs. "The treasurer's report shows that
Be vWly also is wounded in the abdomen, ,$6,051.95 has passed through liis hands
but it is not thought that her injury I during the year. The actual cash re
's tntai. ceipts trom an sources wero n..rai.:.i, anJ waa jjrect regult of the request
Connor, who at one time was an inmate almost exactly 5 .TOO less than during the t,t i, f-,,:,! stitoi w mrmiuiim tn
of the Austin farm, appeared to be crazed (-preceding year, when $481 was raised to I rajiwav between El Paso and
court of Keene before Judge Holmes, ha1 a 32.calibe rev,er in th' kit;w lire wag 5jlW7.I7f $xu 'SiS,,
yesterday and pleaded guilty to forgery f his tpnom,.nt in the basement of the than a year ago. There was a net gain,?"" ,,;r .fLT'
He win bound over to the April term of . building and said: "I am iroine to ston of $114.38.
superior court in $700 bonds. He failed
to furnish bail and was committed.
It is alleged that Duquette forged three
sup-
nary
forces. Mr. Arredondo is understood to
i...... ;...,.....;... f ....... i rtl
3., .xi Jii7 ircn.cu iiiDuui villus Hum icuciai
he supenntenilent has been assisted . . . ,,, . .:,u ,.
wife. Mrs. Beverly, who has a suite in by Albert Lamg ot Hurlmgton, who col-1 . , , . . , . ,.
all this talk," whereupon he fired at his ,
checks total 25.75 Une was . under nJ w,hed into the hall with her baby were 178 addresses given by league rep- , "- h had bv both oovern-
Kiate or June it, una, on me i eopie in jlrr armg fonnor ran up the stairs i resentatives witn auuiences aggregating - '
National bank of Brattlel,oro U., made aml jt ig raimeiI that he fired two shots, j persons." vhil. ) onvpntinn will nrnf;,l. fr
payable to Harry Weeks and drawn to (me srnl(.k Mr8 H,.veriv an(I t)le otilc. The superintendent spoke in some de- h"" the T provide for
thi account of Finette W. Meaney. This Tb" twee the arrjnriLirof A m ' ' rewnt campaign and the part " matters such as the use of Mexican
check was cashed by Samuel Finkelstein , Ktrice Callan as she fled with Mrs Con" Ith loaf,IR took in U' T1,e Anti-Saloon railroads by American troops the speci-
of thi. city and amounted to $5.75. iT t America furnid five cial r-,pt Un prm.s.on to ship supphc,
A second check was drawn en the) .Mjs, K ta who was m tt ,it campaign numlers of the American Iwue u tc aitpoeca ot a. par-
Kcene National bank to the account of 'of ' Mis. Callan'. mother Mrs Gertrude W it,'0,,t ''Xe the Ver'l,ont '""P""- ,1P!y: ""f' Ufrnza h"? Vked,.fI
! W. H. Parker for $12 and made payable ( aIan took M Heverlv'sbaby and ran Ron,e 20",K) c"'" of Moh of t,,e f,r,t "ll 'tinS . :"f"lnatlon that subject
to Elton Stoddard. A third check for $8 lo a front room ronnor it C rlain.M fo,lr ,1llpn of th mh were , anu it s i oe i. rrueu 10 ...... .n.meu.-
direct examination told of working for
Mr. Fletcher at the Woodbury quarry
and also for his employer at the latter 's
home, tii king charge of the furnaces.
He testified that on the afternoon of
Feb. 21, 11)14, he decided to throw up his
job and accordingly asked for and re
wived his time. It was the following
afternoon, after leaving the house where
he boarded, that he was stopped on the
highway by Mr. Fletcher, who asked him
where lie was going. The witness said
he replied tlmt it was his business,
whereupon Mr. Fletcher jumped from a
sleigh, took off bis overcoat and pro
ceeded to beat him (Milne) over the
shoulders with an Iron pipe. He said he
was struck five or six times, even after
he w as knocked to the ground.
On cross-examination, he admitted
having purchased a quart of whiskey
the night he decided to get through work
at the Fletcher quarry and drank about
half of it the afternoon of the alleged
affray. He admitted that he was arrest
ed later and the following day pleaded
guilty to charge of intoxication, lie told
of going to the enginehouse of the Wood
bury quarry, visiting the engineer in
clinrge, one (Jeorge Suitor,
Had Been Granite Cutter in Barre and
Montpelier Many Years.
Bartley Roach, for nearly seventeen
years employed in Batre and Montpelier
as a granitecutter, passed away at the
home of Thomas McGoff, 379 North Main
street, this morning at 3:15 o'clock. Mr,
Roach had been in failing health since
September. 1014, although his condition,
did not develop seriously until a short)
time ago. He is survived by two sisters,
Miss Margaret Roach of Concord, N. H.,
and Miss Mary Roach, who lives in Ire
land; and four brothers, Martin Roach,
of Waterbury, Thomas Roach, who re
sides in Ireland, John Roach, a resident
of Montpelier, and Bernard Roach of
Concord, N. H.
Mr..Roach was born in Ireland 4S year
ago and came to America at the age of ,
31. As a young man he had learned the
granite' trade and soon after coming to
this country, he settled in the Burro
granite district. luring his seventeen
years residence in this city and vicinity.
he was employed by several manufactur
ing firms. Mr. Rach was a member of
the granitecutters' uuion.
Arrangements for the funeral waie
upon the receipt of advices from relatives
of the deceased in Concord, X. H. It
s expected, however, that the body wilt
be taken to Montpelier for service in St.
Augustine s church. Ifurial will be mude
in St. Michael's cemetery at the capitaL
LOOKING UP RECORDS.
New Hampshire Official Comes to Mout
pelier Over Boundary Dispute.
Concord,-N. IL, March 21. Assistant
Attorney-General Joseph S. Matthews u
in Montpelier, Vt., looking over the Ver
mont records for material to use in the
hearing before the L'nited States su
preme court in the New Hampshire-Ver-
He admitted mont boundary case.
(ulint at. nf th MalMtinoiirt wnrwl fhm
Germans made some slight progress. The I" alft drawn on the Keene Aationa fK,0Weii her and fired through the glass
lit follows: iaiK 10 me ecouni o. , ... himt nu ,twr. J
text of the statement
Mrs. Callan opened the window
In Hie Argonne our artillery destroyed I"1?"1 lo ren . " ,"h and Miss Seott jumped with the baby to
rtheast of Pour eneeiss were unuer uaic. oi .Mara. na the strf
fjprnian t rpnrllplt til the Tin
De Pairs and Haute Chevierre. The,7' respectively.
shc!linii -of German works was followed!
LIE PASSED TO BRYAN.
bv the emission of considerable sulphu
rous VHHrs. indicating that reservoirs
were destroyed by our shells.
"We energetically bombarded the sec
tor of AviHuiirt, Malancourt and dis
posed of groups of the enemy reported
assembling to the north of the Mont
Fa.teon wood.
"etof the Meuse, the Germans in ror of a Mste pmhiliitHm
the course of th day after an inten-e Mavnr CJiarles W. Hrvan
bombardment with sheila of large calibre brother of the former secretary of state.
mflft mm ttttemnl trnlarr fhir frnnt- ia a -an.ltf1at fnr tk ltmnru nm. !
Campaigning for His Brother, Willam J.
Got Into Argument.
Lincoln. Neb., March 21. William Jen
nings Bryan here lat night opened the
campaign in Ncbraoka. speaking in fa-
mendment.
of Uncoln,
treet. a drop of seven feet, and Iwdly
....-!, ...1 Imp a ,, L l.i ('it y r. n V , . 1 t
' " 111' , . 1.. 1 a.m... i iniii, ,
his tenement and w hen the police arrived
in respone to calls from several women
in the building, they found hi kitchen
afire.
Connor is 34 rears of age and his wife
ia 20.
listril.i.ted. representing a pift of alxi.it iately. State department officials dc
$1.2h1. jelined to discuss the nature of the infor-
The out-of-the-state speakers included : mation desired, on the ground that w hile
Rer. A. C. Bane, Hon. Wsyne B. Wheeler, negotiations are in progress they must
If. R. Hutton ami Kev. Clnrenr True i be held to be confidential.
Wilson. Much space was taken in news-
FORMER BOARDS NAMED.
paper for advertising.
"It must be admitted." concludes Mr.
Smith, "that there was not a satisfactory
local organization of fon-es, and we did
ant get out the vote we had reason to
expect. The vote lor the tetcntion of
DECLINED TO GIVE AID.
Carranza Forces Even Permitted Vilra
to Escape Net.
EI Paso, Tex., March 21. Despite the
For License Commissioners in St. Al
bans and Swanton.
St. Alhun. March 21 Assistant
and inquired where he might lie going
: i i . . ... ' ... i- v. i ami tne aiieireu .n-xmii: .t--.i...-.
larger than we ha,, n ,ult jbengag.I tWe of Villa at N.miquipa, The wrtnea. M lt
ruin fnr nrn i lint inn na n,,.t, .,.llr unnm u ..11 inr.irme.-l 1,. r inra.u.,1 1 li I l" t"K ' ...
. : . .:.i '. " : .':'. .. .. .... , 'and was detained Iron.
r.....r..i. asrain iiie.opinM.n inni lUe v .rr.. ,h , lwu ni(.,iir-.
miwh. .r ine nminriiy against license lailetl to keen up tneir end ot me nel tvi.. , ..,,,, ... ,,i
i. -i in.' w .ai'.uir .n .... .. , .... tn.iil.le he tl kn with
, -
ni caiiei mm
that he insisted on handling different The answer of New Hampshire to th.i
parts of the machinery, much to the an- jm.it brought by Vermont was to have
noyance of Suitor. Afterward lie went; been lihil in the l'nited States court thi
t i bis boarding tiou-e and wa.s ordered nionlh, but a continuance to July was
from the house by Mr. Fletcher. Wit- ;ernted to enable this state to make a
ness said he was "only talking with thejMirV(.y f the (ranks of the Connecticut
fellows." He refused to leave the house j rjV(T after the spring freshets,
and was thrown down the stairs by Mr. Meantime General Matthews is study
Fletcher. He ventured down the road jn Vermont record and may visit
but derided later t return to the h"1" j Albany to look over the New Yoik re -and
it was wlifle bo was on his way bock or,ja it j hoped thatlhe river will have
that his former employer acco-t.-d him Llllwj(ii to nrmaf conditions next
month, so tht survey f the water inark4
may be made seasonably.
With the big accumulation of snow all
1.a .-.11m. hnvAvnr il la n.iailtla
, r . .Illl'l ., - . , .v ... .........
is nearly as large as in the j ear before." which
. bandit chieftain.
There were confirma-
Mr. Fletcher
WILL BE HEID AT PLATTSBURG. ,Xnx? r'P"r" revived yest.nUy of thejj,,, , pive , ,mple of the Un
i news rpf-iveil for the last week tiist the
Ciisire nwl, he
fai!.-d to e-" e,,rvtliing.
-a id
Im "caliiil him
merican trtH.ps. but j T!;,. probably nt Uct very
An attark hv a freh mnmv liiriikinn r. iinatinn for 0nvninr I,i.1m lll,a W Pn.!.. a n.l f,url. A '
rently brought up from a point remote' A dispute between Mr. Dm an and John Gardvne made the appoint monts of li-'
from tha front was directed with great G. llahar, a local politician, in which the qmr licence commissioners yesterday gammer Training Camp Scheduled to Re '' 'X'"'!'',, troopa not only
violence and attended by the use of jets lie waa pwd to Mr. Brysn in a hotel afternoon f r St. Allans City and Swan- , i, jom-rte with the Ameriii
of liquid name against onr position be- trfr. enhtened the informal meetings tn. the only t'wn in tranklin rtxinty : j in i.-rtjiin ini-tances at leajit were ac- " an,j tnmy he completed to-Uy
. a"'ui -iu.ni-'iirt. itrr-iu ni.-iii a csioerimr. -mat foi io license me saw ot liquor .or sev lors. Ajsrrn s.. Alaior n.jTal lusliv wUhdrawuig irom Hie lielil oi
"tnir Darner nre ana ine nre of our' ine iipute Tnr oter a quest ef the eom-.ng vr. The ol.l hoard w re- u-..nr l (.-!. l. . A
machine pint and infantry inftM-ted Mr. Hhr a to whether one of the appointed for St. Alhn t itv, vii Nel
heavy losses on the enemy and broke t-r-esker from the east who on lat "n E. L'fVuver. J- hn J. Finn and Oin
down the effort f tha aaiUnti who night's program was pitting paid for N. Pease, and for Swanrnn the ame m-n
were able to make only sight progress t.i MtK. k. Pr.T remarked that , who ttH twn yer mgn brn that tow a
at a fsiint in the eastern part of the,Mahar motive w;a mwBrr. Tl ia votei ia favor of lw-n-e were a; point -
Malanmnrt womL provoke! tr retort and Mr. Mahar fol- L ThfT are linger J. Brown, Frank camps at Plattslmre. X. Y
"A TKdect bombardnmacA (wv rre 1 K'wed it with otbr iharj-. X 115 a ad CAailea . LVuyr. ru:in'Ilv planned,
1
Wilson WU1 Sign.
JAILED FOR THEFT.
He is Also Fined 1 100 and Coats at Brattleboro.
Bra tth -horn. March 21. lor stealing
.'4 frmi Mrs. W. J. Anilers-in. Henry I
Wood was sentenced yet-riay atter-n'-n
in municipal court to jail for front
Wasinntrlon. Man h 21. President Wil- four to ix nwr.tHa and fined $lil and
in command ' nitrations.
of the dejrtment of the Fast, an-j The Associated lrr 1,-amed on tin
nmimed laat ncKt that he ha l.m a.l. lonMiiotiattle anthorif r ihml the trooos of
ied bv the adjutant general of the ' the de frt government which has been ob ha told rotigreHial leaders he w ill ;cit. 1 he allege,! Urceny was commit
army in Wasf.incton. that despite pub-1 stationed at Caa Grande Hate len -icn the Philirpine bill, imlelmg t.'.e't.d U-t Monday. W ood was arrested in
lie contradict ion. the M.mmrr traininc ' w ithdrawn and are now in and al'it larke amendment f"T itfh fw-nden. n t I'.t.s.o!. Conn.
...... . - . i . . , . i......v. : it.. ... : - x . i-,. t v w
would vt 1 luarrr. trom the came aooree it ws iai-r i nan .our vnn, o-( .e oia uuup- n- "- .. ...
U-Miyni tkat at Kt vn detachment ot irul of auiue oi ita Of tail. iti ajain-t him. lUlt tie aatj.
