$mmmmmmm
mmmimMmmmvQm'uym,' ''".tMijiwMW""'
-w-w ' i)'ppp
i .imjiiwi).ijii )iiiiijpifBWMPPIP!i
f . . .- -
FINANCIAL EDITION
Bi
NIGHT
EXTRA
py NIGHT
- - EXTRA
mm
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAV, FEBRUARY lil, 15)1(5.
Co?tEiiiT, lain, nr the l't'itno I.CDar.n Colin .si,
rillOJS ONIS OJBNT
i
MSjfcf r? 5?"r
0tSm mJ
-Hi
GERMANS RAID
BRITISH PORTS,
FRENCH CITIES
Pocks and Steamships in
England Shelled by Teu
ton Airmen
ATTACK IN DAYLIGHT
l
!' Towns in Belgium and Franco
Bomunmcci, onys ivupmt
From Berlin
BKItLIN. Feb. 21.
Germ"" liters rnlilrd Imlf a dozen Hng
Ilfh From h unit I!i1kIiiii cities yesterday,
hurling down scores of bombs with do
truclnP results mid returned unharmed.
accorclltifr t" olllclal statements ninilc pub
Hc till" afternoon.
Vhtl- rur nnnl planet wore bombard
ing Hie lailvvny station, tho gns work",
the (loci. mid tun llrltlsh steamships at
lawerlnt other (Ionium airmen attacked
the Hclgmn towns of l-'urnos and Popor
Ingho. behind tin- Holglnn and llrillsh lines
unit tlie Kit mil cities of Amicus illlil l.une
vlllc The Kngllsh town of Wulmer wus
also bnmlKMl from tho sky.
The following ollleliil statement wan
Issued .
"Gorman navnl aeroplanes nttneked the
British enal at tioon on Sunday.
"Bombs wero hurled with good success
on factories In the rear of the railway
docks and on the gas plant at Lowestoft
The main station and docks In Lowestoft
were lilt several times. The gas plant
was rendered useless by the projoi tiles.
"Two tank steamships were bombarded.
"In spite of the enemy's lire and pur
ult by airships all tho German machines
returned safely to their bases.
"Our aeroplane squadron attacked the
enemy's positions at Kurnes and I'opor
Inghe, In iiolgluin, and Amiens and Luue
vllle. in France. Tho attacks were suc
cessful." LONDON. Feb. 21.
Towns on the east mid southenst
coasts were attacked In broad daylight
jestcrdav by four tierninn seaplanes
which diopped many bombs. Up to a
late hour this morning the official llg
urcs on casualties gnvo only three two
men and one boy killed, and one man,
n marine, Injured. The damiiKC lis of
fuinllv reported, was conllncd chlolly to
private property.
A reatnri! of the official account Is tho
admission that Firltlsli aircraft, one naval
plane and two aeroplanes, which ascended
to attack the raiders, failed to reach
them. It appears the German aeroplanes
arc capable of ascending to an oxtrnor-
dlnarv height. The War Office states
that two biplanes after circling over the
.town of l,oivcNtoft. In .Suffolk, "rose to
;n ffroat height nnrt Rcamlrigty'Vnrilnhcrt."
Fifteen nilnutes Inter they rcnppcnreil
nver tlie town and then How to the cast.
The raid occurred between in ;.". and
nbout 11 : :! 0 o'clock.
Only one aeropiano attacked Waliner.
and it was over the town not mnro than
a minute, but all tho fatalities occurred
there. One of the victims was a paper
boy on his round with tho Sunday news
papers He was killed Instantly., Another
Victim was a youth of 10, who has not
yet been Identified. Four bombs wero
dropped In a duster and lauded in a circle
of 100 yards
Many persons were In the streets when
suddenly the whirr of an aeroplane's oli
vines was heard. Tho pronienaders saw
the plane Hying at an estimated height
of 1000 feet. It was Instantly recognized
by many as an enemy machine Tho cry
was raised "Look out! It's German! Uet
under cover "'
Some persons took the advice. Others
calmly waited and watched tho raider.
Presently loud detonations followed ono
mother In succession and tho sound of
smashing glass was heard from many
directions One of tho missiles struck u
ihed, while others dropped near u church
wliero service was In progress. Tho Te
Deum was being sung when a tremendous
concussion rocked tho building. It caused
momentary pauso in tho singing. How.
ever, tho Mfrvlco then proceeded without
the least sign of anxiety on tho part of
the congregation.
Houses In tho immedlato neighborhood
ot tho explosions suffered considerable
damage. There nro many In which not a
pane of glass remained unbroken. Thora
was no excitement among tho residents,
however, and u few minutes after tho oc
currence mistresses and maids wero busily
engaged In sweeping up fragments of glass
nd souvenir hunters sought pieces of tho
bombs.
Tho narrow escape of ii boat which hail
Just taken a pilot aboard at Walmer was
told by tho occupants of tho boat. Three
bombs fell Into tho sea directly in tho
wake of tho boat, causing u tremendous
upheaval of tho wator.
' "Ono missed tho boat by only 8 or 10
feet," said a member of the clew.
THE WEATHER
The weather Is what wo inako It.
Nobody will deny that today is a lino
y, except tho murderers who are paying
the penalty of their crimes und tho sol
diers who are paying tho penalty of their
rulers' crimes and all thoso who uro lu
trouble or distress or sickness.
For them, today is us gloomy a day as
ver .dawned. Tho weather Is what they
wake it. Hut for ull those whom Inner
"loom. Is not enshrouding, today Is near
Perfect, The yellow sunshine that Hooded
J-amden anil tho river this morning
brought a lino day. a trlllo cool, it's true,
lth a keen wind that cut Into tho bones
of the palo and anemic, but only made
the red blood of others tingle. The
weather Is what they mado it. Yes, today
a fine day It Is payday for thoso who
are usually paid tomorrow.
Let us all unite In a long and hearty
nope that tomorrow will be another to
day FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
'air tonight and Tuesday, with slowly
JW'nff temperature; moderate north
to east tvinds.
For details see page 15.
LOST AND POUND
BK2U " J-08'- Wednesday. February 10. In
Si'fvuJ -Stratford or vicinity, a pUtlnum and
ii.!50n,J '1M bruocli. contalnhiB U atones,
fwuiiied on back J. B. C. & Co. V. 3520.
Fia .I5.w!',tJ " returned to J. K. Caldwell
ST M.. wr2 Chestnut .
m'j$ SlNuritST i,t. utwn Loian si.
m. i.T , ., ' ih. suu tuDvuni, wiin
Pifr diamond centre, ThuriMUy: reward.
Jud! ,Jliuri lo Ur. C. Lorne, Perry
4 lln and Chc.tnut.
us!.'"11 , l-otSaturjy ufternooli brown
"ilh .'"" '": "'iea ut oiil. ml atr.u.pod
r,n.i '" ' tnUa untwining mono luoi-
mm ' "'"". . nv. lul .Jib .outallilns
-V" i,.r.l K 4j T..-djfjr CVutrl
Gttu Lo.i aBd Jfoiuul AU uu l'ui Id
:..M
lUfKGOMASTHIl MAX
Brussels official, made famous by
the war, who has refused to ac
cept his liberty from the Germans
on condition that ho go to Switzer
land and remain inactive.
BERLIN'S U-BOAT
ORDER MAY BRING
BREAK WITH U. S.
Attack on Armed Liner
With Americans Aboard
Would Cause Crisis
NEW ANSWER AWAITED
WASHINGTON. Feb. 21.
The situation lu tlie Lusltnnla contro
versy is as grave as It was before tlie re
cent (iermaii concessions, ns tlie result ot
(Scrmany's Issuance of the armed mer
chantmen proclamation. This was alllrmed
by tho Slate Department today.
Tho possibility of :i break arising over
tlie putting into effect of the German and
Austrian proclamation March 1 was ad
mitted by tho department. It may arrive,
it was said, if Ameilcau citizens are killed
by the submarining of a merchanlniaji, or
by tho Indollnlto-iio.slioneiiioiir -of- 'tho
Lusltnnla settlement.
Secretary Lansing today was flatly
asked if ho contemplated calling the Ger
111:111 Ambassador to account for alleged
dissemination of propaganda which the
department considers annoying. Tho Sec
retary waited a full two minutes before
answering. His face grew grave anil his
brow wrinkled as ho finally said, with
more force than he usually employs:
"If 1 did contemplate such action, I
would not make it known beforehand
through the press."
The next move by this (ioveriuuent
depends upon tho reply from the Ilerlln
Foreign Office to Ambassador von Ilern
storff's last communication, which ex
plained that tills Government still in
sisted on (leriunny's compliance with In
ternational law regarding tho right of
merchantmen to arm for defense.
In the meantime. It was said at the
Department today, this Government's pro
posal lo the llnteute Allies, suggesting
that tliey disarm their Inerchantineu,
CiiutiniiFd on I'ltKe Tour, Column One
IIISTOIUC CANADIAN CHURCH
T1IKKATBNBI) BY FLAMS
Bcauport Edifice, Where Montcalm
Camped, on Fire
QUIinEf", Que.. Keb. 21. Tho Roman
Catholic Church at Deauport. situated
across tho St. Charles Illver, about three
miles from Quebec, was on tiro this aft
ernoon, and it was feared tho historic
edlflco was doomed. Heaupott Is a small
French-Canadian village, and has no llre
llghtlng apparatus. Assistance has been
sent from Quebec.
Iteauport Is one of the oldest settled
parishes In Kronen-Canada, und a silo
near tho church was used by Montcalm as
an encampment when he was fighting for
tho conquest of tho plnco lu 175!). A
church of some sort has stood on tho
slto of the present edllleo since tho earliest
days of the French regime.
In 1SSS tho towers wero burned down
and afterward rebuilt. Thousands of pil
grims pass through Deauport every year
on their way to tho famous shrlno of St.
Anno do Iteaupre, about 12 miles distant.
Klrst reports wore that tho Cathedral at
that point wus on Hie.
LE F0RZE AUSTRIACHE
IN MARCIA SU VAL0NA
Si Crede Clio l'Attacco Contro
la Base Navalo Albanese
Non Sara' Ritardato
Telegranmil da Itoma dlcono cho lo
forzo austrlache operant! In Albania si
avvlclnano a Valona. Ksse lianno gla'
occupato, a quanto affermaua notizle ufll
clairvlennesl, la cltta dl Itcrat, capoluogo
della reglone In cul si trova Valona, e si
crede cho I'attacco contro lo forze Italians
che occupauo questa base navala sulla
oosta albanese non sara' ritardato a
lungo, anche perche" non jiaro che le forze
austro-bulgaro debbano Incontrare grande
realsteiiza sulla strada da Herat a
Valona.
Vn telegramma da noma dice che a
Plotroburgo e' glunta notlzla che le
truppe russe operant! da Krzerum verso
II Lago dl Van. cloe" verno sud. In dlre
zione della ferrovla dl Bagdad, hanno
raggiunto una loeallta" a poche mlglla da
Ultlls e che le forze turche evacuano ora
nuasta Importante cltta. Nello stos so
tempo I'ala dtra russa marcla contro
Treblsonda, contro cut la flotta dello ozar
si prenara ad aglre. I rusl hanno taeo
ora una. vasta trappola per I tone
turche dellAsIa Mlnore o della valle del
Tigrl
tLeggere In 4a paglna le ultimo e plu'
dettagllate notuie sulla guerru, In ltaU-uno-J
BRITISH ATTACK
FAILS TO REGAIN
YSER TRENCHES
Germans Hold Position on
Canal, North of Ypres,
Despite Assault
CRATER OF MINE LOST
Squadron of French Aeroplanes
Raid Teuton Ammunition
Depots
IIIIULI.V, lVh. il.
Attempts by tlie tlrlllsh to dislodge Hie
Hermans from their new position on tho
Ycr Canal north of Ypres (lu West Flan
ders) weie repulsifl, accotdlng to an olll-
ml report Issued by tho War Olllee to
dm There Is great nlr activity on tlie west
fr..nt
Following Is tho text of the olllclal
statement:
"Worth of Ypres tho Ktigllsh directed
ao attack with hand grfnades against our
new position on tho canal, hut It was re
pulsed. "South of Loos (In Artols) the enemy
forced us to withdraw fiom a crater
which we had previously occupied. Along
tlie Lons-Arras highway the enemy made
an unsuccessful attack against our posi
tions. TT'AIUS. Feb. 21.
Weak artillery action Is reporltd from
the greater part of the front.
In Artols two Oerinau attacks wero
launched against the Allied positions
noithwest of lllll So, ltd, but both were
repulsed.
The text of tlie communique follows:
"There have been weak actions by the
artillery on both sides along the whole
front, except north of Verdun, where there
was a certain amount of activity.
"In Artols. to tho northwest of Hill No.
140, tho enemy attempted without success
two local attacks with hand grenades.
"A squadron of live French aeroplanes
bombarded the ammunition depots of the
enemy at Chateau Martineoiirt and Azuu
dange. respectively, southwest and south
east of Uletizo.
CRACKSMEN IN CHURCH
MISS RICH LOOT; FOILED
BY SEXTON; STEAL $20
St. John the Baptist Safe,
Manayunk, Wrecked by Rob
bers Surprised by Ap
pearance of Felix Quinn
TWOSUSPECTS" CAtJGHT
Cracksmen who enteied the Itnmnn
Cathollu Church of HI. John the llaptlst,
Hector and Cresson htrcots, JInnayunk,
early today wero scared off by tho sex
ton after they had blown looso the big
door of the safe lu tho sacristy.
Vestments studded with diamonds and
rubles, valued at thousands of dollars,
and a considerable sum of money Insldo
the safe were left untouched lu the thieves'
hurry to get out of the building. The men
cheaped as they had entered, through u
window lu the basement.
The only loot obtained was about J2D
lu cash which was taken from three poor
lioxes that had been smashed. Five other
boxes were dented and hammered with
out results. The sexton. Felly Quinn, HI
Hector street, entered tho church about
r. o'clock to tlud it tilled Willi smoke and
dust, evidently from n nitroglycerin
charge that had been made to crack tho
safe. Quinn heard the scurrying of foot
steps through the quiet building, but made
his way to the safe llrst. He touched the
door and it almost dropped from its
hinges. Tho contents, were untouched
Several tools, Including an auger, a drill
and a fuse, wero found near the safe.
Tho drill and other Implements were bad
ly bent and broken, showing that the
cracksmen had bungled tho Job. Tlio po
lice think they aro amateurs in their line,
because of tho manner in which they at
tempted to drill tho safe.
Two suspects wore arrested neaihy by
tho police after tho discovery. They aro
"And" Wlslosky. 2." years old, llfi!) Ap
ple street, and John Viola, alias "Troggs,"
22 years old, 1120 Sllverwood street. Tho
men were arrested by Special Officer Mc
Laughlin and Acting .Street Sergeant Tay
lor, of tho .Manayunk police station. Wls
losky Is said to havo a police lecoril. hav
ing Just been released from Jail for burg
lary, lietectives Hielmrd loylo and I lurry
Ilobkin nro working on the case.
Tlie church was closed lust night after
tho evening services nud It wus llrst
thought that the men had hid themselves
lu tho building all night. Later u base
ment window was found forced open with
a chair beneath it, showing that the men
hud entered and lied that way.
The safo contained besldo tho costly
vestments and money, a remonstrance
valued at several thousand dollars. 1're
clous candlesticks and other vessels around
the altar of tho church were left un
touched. A broken hit. scveii-slxtuenths
of an inch in diameter; a drill and a fuse
were found alongsido tho safe. A hole
bored four Inches below tho combination
showed wliero the explosive- had been
placed. It Is thought that the explosion
had Jammed the tumblers lu the looso
combination. thu3 preventing the door
from opcnelng.
LINSEED MILL BURNS
FOLLOWING EXPLOSION
$100,000 Damage to Plant of
Spencer, Kellogg & Sons,
Edgewater, N. J.
KPaBWATHH. N. J-, Keb. 21. Dam
ago to the extent of 1100,000 was caused
today by fire In the linseed crushing mills
of Spencer, Kellogg & Sons. The firo was
preceded by an explosion In Mill No. I
This mill was destroyed. Ofllclals are un
able to explain the cause of the explosion.
Chief Knglneer Bell, of the Kdgewater
Fire Department, was severely Injured by
a falling beam while working at the burn
ing mill.
Workman Injured by Plunge
While he was working on a building
being erected at Sth utreet and Columbia
avenue, Camden. Morris Ingram, 31 years
old, of that city, fell from a scaffold a
distance of about 1! feet and was Injured
about the lace and body
LIQUOR LAW UI'HULl)
Decision Conforms Vnltdity of South
Carolina Statute
WASHINGTON. Feb. 21. A decision
of tho United States supremo Court today
In erfect declared South Carolina"."! dls
petis.tty liquor law constitutional lu de
ciding tho appeal ot tho Carolina (llnss
Company, charged In tho Stato courts
with conspiracy.
Answering tho allegations tlint It had
eliteied Into n. conspiracy with members
of the Slnlc dispensary board to over
charge the board for bottles which It bail
furnished, the company attacked the con
stitutionality of the law under uhlch the
State took possession of money owed to
the company by county dispensaries.
Justice Mcllejiicilds gave the unanimous
opinion toihiv
CITY AD BUREAU
TO TELL WORLD
OF TRADE HERE
Department to Be Formed
With Wide Publicity As
Its Aim
MAYOR ASKS $500,000
Mayor Smith has In contemplation the
expenditure of more than a half million
dollars to be used for the purpose of ad
vertising the city of Philadelphia In n
manner never before accomplished. It In
bis Intention lo apply to Councils for an
appropriation to cover this expense and
lo either clonic a separate bureau with a
director, assistant director and other of
llclals. or else Incorporate the advert s
Ing department of the city Into one of
the now existing bureaus.
This new and unique branch of munic
ipal government will aim to make Phila
delphia the most widely known city In
the world, and will seek to dispel the
notion that has held for so long that
Philadelphia is "slow."
A campaign of advertising ' will be
launched by the new department that will
Inform the merchants and manufacturers
of every comer of the world of the advan
tages thai go to make Philadelphia the
world's greatest workshop, and the great
est city of homes. (Ireat conventions will
be sought for this city. In short, the
new department will have for Its goal a
world-wide reputation for Philadelphia
as a centre for trade, manufacturlcs and
homes, and to teach the truths about
Philadelphia to every man, woman and
child In America.
PLAN C.OINO TO COUNCILS
Mayor Smith Is preparing to present his
plans for tho new department, to Councils
at an early date.
Thallrst striiuthnt wlll.bu-lakoivby tho
new department, or bureau, will ho to
launch n natlou-wldo advertising cam
paign through tho newspapers. The
Mayor proposes, that the city of Philadel
phia buy paid advertising space In news
papers ranging from New York to those
In tho smallest hamlets, and will ask
Councils to provide n tremendous advertis
ing appropriation.
As tho Mayor has developed the plan
up to this time, lie has only the newspa
pers in mind. All the money that Coun
cils will give him he wants to spend for
newspaper advertising: no magazine and
no billboards. The .Mavor has unlimited
faith in the power of newspaper advertis
ing The Idea Is fairly recent with him. It
was suggested to him when he was the
guest of the Poor lllchard Club at
luncheon several weeks ago, and lu the
speech he made at that time ho told
his listeners, who were mainly advertis
ing men, that he Intended to advertise
Philadelphia. That started a discussion,
and the idea camo out of the general talk
that followed.
poou mrsiNi:ss to ki:i:p ql'imt.
Mayor Smith reasons that Philadelphia
has so much good to say about Itself that
It Is mighty poor business to keep quiet.
That Is why he wants everybody to know
what aro now familiar fads only to resi
dents of this city and the Immedlato neigh
bors. Mr. Smith doesn't want to spend
nuy more of whatever appropriation ho
gets In organization than Is absolutely
necessary. Ho wants It all to go where it
will do tho most good right Into printers'
ink.
Ho figures that fsoo.nno will bo about
right to start with. Ho doesn't consider
this sum at all largo. "II isn't only an
expenditure," ho said, "It's an Investment.
Tho money is to be put Into something
that will bring back the principal witti
Interest way up."
Advertising Philadelphia, tho Mayor
says, Is selling the products of tho city's
manufactures. If Councils go along with
him ho Is going to seek tho activo co
operation of tho merchants and manufa'
turcrs, tho men who will get tho first dl-
lect bcuellt out of advertising the city.
LAWRENCE GOES "WET"
AFTER 5-YEAR DROUGHT
New Judge at New Castle
Grants 25 Licenses Lays
Down Rules
NF.W CASTLi:. Pa., Feb. 21. Law
renco County went wet today after being
among the. dry counties for llvo years.
Judge S. I'. Umery. elected over former
Judge W. K. Porter, this morning granted
licenses to 25 out of 00 applicants lu the
county. Twenty-one these wero grunted
to applicants lu this city. There were
10 wholesale, 14 retail applicants and one
brewery licensed.
Judge Porter, after granting 33 out of
46 applicants In JflO. refused all appli
cants tho following year and since. Judge
Umery was elected on a wet ticket.
In granting the licenses today, Judge
Emery laid down live rules which, he
stated, must be strictly adhered to. They
are:
No treating.
No credit.
Bottled goods must be sold only
by the proprietor and the purchaser
must sign naiiio and address.
Bara in New Castle must close at
11 p. m.
Wholesale dealers must not give
wimples to prospective purchasers.
The granting of licenses occasioned no
surprise in the county, although it had
been predicted that Judge Emery would
grant in the neighborhood of 40 permits.
Hotel Fischer, at Knoii Valley, against j
which strong remonstrances had been i
filed, obtained a license All applicants I
in Bessemer Borough and Taylor, t'nlon
and Wayne townships were refused. '
TURKS ABANDON
BITLIS; TWO SLAV
ARMIES ADVANCE
Forces From Lake Van
Now Masters of Import
ant Vilayet of Mush
DUKE GAINS ON TREBIZON
Black Sea Fleet Co-operates by
, Shelling Turkish
Littoral
LONDON, Fob. 21.
The Turks ate evacuating the Armenian
oily of llltlls. southwest of Lake Van. no
cording to petrngrnd ndvlees today. This
marks ,iu ndwintnge for Iho Slavs driving
on Dlnthckr.
The Itnsslnns, the dispatch slated, have
followed up tho conquest of Mush and
Aehlat by occupying all the region around
Lake Van.
llltlls Is the capilal of an Armenian vil
ayet ami has a population of about Hll.nno.
The Turkish front has been broken In
two places and three Tuiklsli army corps
sepal. ited by the rapid westward drive
of the (Irnnil Duke's Caucasus unity, ac
cording to dispatches received hero to
day The Turkish army, forming the left
wing, Is falling back rapidly on Trezl
bond. The 11th Turkish Army Corps,
floundering In the snows west of Krze
rum. Is trying to reach Krzlngan while
under harassing attack by Slav pursuers
A third Turkish corps on the right wing
has been Isolated from theflrinles to the
north and mny be cut olt and captured.
Dispatches today reported the capture
of the Armenian town of Pasur Akchesln.
southwest of Mush, by tho llusslan left
wing.
The defeated army corps In the south
which fornieily operated in tho Lake Van
district. Is falling back In even greater
dlsmder than the forces that lied from
Krzerum. Several detachments are re
ported to have broken off from the main
body in their haste to reach Dlabekr, lo
the southwest. The liriind Duke's left
wing Is moving swiftly toward tho nioun
tahiH Inuaid the Ilngdiul Hallway, which
Dlabekr dominates.
Turkish rearguards are retreating with
heavy losses before one large army of
(rami Duke Nicholas, which Is advancing
rapidly toward Dlarbekr. on the Tigris
Itlver. while another Is moving from Kr
zerum lo Trebizond.
Dlarbekr is only fi0 miles from tho Cou-stantlnople-niigihid
Hallway, the only lino
of coiniuunlcatlou from the Turkish Army
lu Mesopotamia.
Tho llusslan army of Invasion In north
ern Armenia, advancing against Trebi
zond, Is meeting with hut feeblo rcslstanco
from tho Turks.
Turkish losses In the last two weeks'
fighting with Ibu Itusslans aro said to be
nearly 1 00,000 men lu killed, wounded and
prl.son.ere.
Tho Kaiser Is reported to have sent nn
Imperatlvo message to Field Marshal von
ilcr Ooltz, tho chief Herman military ad-
Continued nu race Pour, Column Three
1500 WATER BUREAU
MEN TOLD TO HOP ON
THE "WATER WAGON"
If They "Fall OiT' Their OiTicial
Heads Will Come OiT, Says
Chief Davis'
Order
NO MORE INTOXICATION
Fifteen bundled employes and officials
of the Bureau of Water aro affected by an
order Just Issued by Chief Carlelon It
Davis and approved by Director Dates
man, to the effect tbhiit Intoxication, in
any degree, means swift suspension.
Chief Davis, when asked ubout tho rule
.against Intoxication, said: "Work In the
bureau Is hazardous; plpemen work in tho
midst oftrallic. men at tho pumping station
work around constantly moving machinery
and the men at tho filter plants aro sub
ject to cold and rheumatism. For these
Mii.niiu nil ulw.ttlil Itn Iti f-rw,d nil vmIiVI I
, v.. ,,i,ti .... .-.., ,., ... ... ., ... . ... .. .
condition at all times. The rule Is no
radical dopartiue. but Is merely Intended
to continue a standiiid already existing."
WHAT THF. NOTICK SAYS.
Tho Water Bureau notice, affecting all
employed lu this branch of ,tho city serv
ice, follows:
To all foremen, superintendents and
ofllclals nf tho Bureau of Water:
Safely llrst Is 'an underlying prin
ciple ot present-day Industrial work.
Injuries to employes can no longer bo
classed as accidents In tho seuso that
responsibility and liability therefor
can bo avoided by tho management,
or. in our caso, by the City of Phila
delphia. It therefore behooves every
responsible olllclal of tho Bureau of
Water placed In chnrgo of fellow em
ployes to take every posslblo precau
tion against Injury which will result
In loss of tlmo or any degree nf physi
cal disability to any citizen, whether
in the employ of the city or not.
To this end every employe at all
times must be In good physical condi
tion and In full possession of all his
faculties. Intoxication to any degieo
tends to numb a man's faculties and
render him an Inelllelent uud irre
sponsible employe.
Please take notice, therefore, that
any employe coming under your
direction who uses Intoxicating liquor
on the work, or who reports for work
to any extent under the Influence of
liquor, should he Immediately sus
pended by you and ordered to report
to this office. You will transmit
through tho proper channels a full
statement of tho rcaBou for such
suspension. '
Sympathy or the deslro to give a
man another chance must In no way
influence your action In such cases.
By so doing, you compromise the
Bureau of Water and may render
the City of Philadelphia liable for
Injury and damage.
Kach responsible official will bo
held personally liable for carrying
out these instructions to the letter.
Such official' will likewise see that
this notice Is given the widest pos
sible publicity among all employes.
OAULBTON It DAVIS,
Chief of Bureau.
Approved :
GliOnCK K, DATBSMAN.
Director. Department of Public Works.
No comment was heard front the em
ployes today regarding the order, and it's
up to them to choose between their Jobs
and booze.
QUICK
SUPREME COURT ACTS IN' BOMB PLOT CASES
"WASHINGTON, Feb. 21. In its first decision nffectlnjj bomb
conspiracies, the United States Supreme Court today ordered that
Paul Dncclie, of Jersey City, N. J., must be extradited to New York
for trial under indictments charging him with conspirncy against
steamships carrying supplies to the Allies.
NO MINERS' STRIKE, SAYS THEIR PRESIDENT
NEW YOKK, Feb. 21,-John V. White, president of the United
Mine Workers, today reiterated thnt there, will he no strike in tho
nnthtftcitu fields so long ns hope remains of the operators and miners
coming to uu agreement on the demands of the men for a 20 per
cent, incieasc in wtijjcs.
SMAKIl WILL SUE MAYOR FOR JOB
Mandamus proceedings will ho Instituted against .Mayor Smith by Joseph B.
PmiitT, former chief clerk of the Mayor's olllco. Stnarr wits asked to resign last
Friday In make room for Herbert Oram, who Is employed as a timekeeper by
i Senator Kdwln II. Varc. Ho was given four days in which to flic his resignation,
Sinurr today turned over Ills badge and keys In Mayor Smith, letter he announced
(hat he would bring innudnuittH proceedings anil ask the courts lo reinstate him
to his old position. The salary Is $l!t)(i(i n year. Oram was chief clerk of the
Mayor's oilier- under the Hoybnrii administration.
AUSTRIA TO EXPLAIN ATTACK ON U. S. SHIP
"WASHINGTON. Feb. ::l. Ambassador J'entleld. nt Vienna, cabled the Stato
Department today that ho expects to receive nn answer from the Austrian
Foreign Olllco to his request for mi explanation of Iho attack on the American
steamship Pelroliti' by an Austrian submarine in a fow days. Secretary 1-anslng
recently cabled Ambassador Penlleld, Instructing him to Investigate the circum
stances. The Petrolltn was shelled by an Austrian K-boat despite the fart that
It was Hying the American ling and bad the Stars and Stripes painted on its side.
U. S. HAS PROBLEM IN LINERS USED AS TRANSPORTS
WASHINGTON, Feb. 21. Another International problem faced the Stato
Department today, when it became known that the British liners Ccdrlc and
Celtic, which have been used as auxiliary cruisers by the British Government,
havo been turned back to their owners and ngaln will be used between American
nud British ports. The Slate Department refused to discuss tho question until
ono of the boats, now on its way to New York, docks there.
U.S. CONSUL ASKS CHANGE FROM STUTTGART
WASHINGTON. Feb. III. Ktlwurd Hlgglits, American Consul at Stuttgart,
Germany, lum applied for a transfer of post. It was learned at the State Depart
ment today lligglns" application was received at the Department after It had
been learned lie was supposed to be persona non grata to Germany because
of alleged pro-Ally sympathies. At that time, It was printed that unless ho
was transferred or recalled his recall would bo asked by Germany. No action
has been taken yet by the department, as his transfer would necessarily mean
a change, all nlong the line, which, It was said, requires considerable study lo effect.
AUSTRIAN SUBMARINE SINKS FRENCH STEAMSHIP
PAULS, Feb. "l. The French steamship Memphis has been sunk by m Aus
trian submarine off Durnsszn. according to n VJenna dispatch. Tho Memphis was
a vessel of i'382 tons, built nt Dundee In 1891 and owned by tho Mcssagcrlea
Mitritlinca, ot Paris. Her port of registry was Marseilles.
BRITISH BOYS CALLED TO COLORS
LONDON, Feb. 21. A War Olllco proclamation was posted today culling to
the colors group No. 1 of tho Derby recruits nud this resorvlsts of class No. 1
The Derby volunteers of group No. 1 are between 18 and 19 years of ago and
havo not been called up heretofore becauso of their extreme youth. Copies of
tho military service act, providing for compulsion, were posted throughout tho
city today, and all men falling beneath lis provisions wore uotlllcd to report
to recruiting olliccs before the end of March,
RUSSIAN DUMA TO CONVENE TOMORROW
I'FrilOCiltAD. Feb. 21. After a recess ot nearly a year, the Duma will
convene tomorrow. Tho legislative body will assemble nt a tlmo when all
Tlussla Is rejoicing over successes of the Grand Duke's army In Armenia.
BRITISH REPULSE ATTACK ON UGANDA POST
LONDON, Foil. 21. A German attack against the British post at Knchunhe,
in I'gauda, on February IS was repulsed by tho forces under General Jan
Christian Smuts, It was olllcinlly announced today. Tho German losses we-o
heavy, while- tho Kngllsh casualties were negligible. This wns the llrst light
In which General Smuts had figured since ho succeeded General Smith-Dorrlcn
as commander of British forces lu Kast Africa.
NISH MAGAZINE BLOWS UP; SERBS ACCUSED
BUCHAltMST, Feb. 21. Three Bulgarian officers and 40 soldiers have been
killed or wounded by tho blowing up of nn ammunition magazlno ut Nlsh, former
"war capital" of Serbia. Fifty Serbians havo been arrested at Nish, charged
with complicity.
BRUSSELS BURGOMASTER REFUSES LIBERTY AS EXILE
AMSTKItDAM. Feb. 21. Burgomaster Mnx, of Brussels, wus offered his
liberty by tho Germans, but refused to accept the condition that ho go to
Switzerland und remain Inactive, according to advices received here. Governor
General von Bisslg posted placards announcing that it wus Impossible to
llbcrato Max during tho war.
RUSSIAN PLANE SHELLS AUSTRIAN HEADQUARTERS
PATHS, P'cb. 21. 1-,'Informatlmr prints a dispatch from Basel, Switzerland,
giving. Vienna newspapers as authority for the statement that a large Russian
aeroplane carrying four aviators yesterday dropped 30 bombs on Austrian staff
headquarters.
U. S. RED CROSS EXPELLED FROM SERBIA, SAYS PARIS
TAHIH, Feb. 21. A dispatch to tho Havas Agency from Bucharest, dated
Thursday, says the German authorities aro expelling tho American Red Cross
missions from Serbia.
25 WOUNDED IN BUDAPEST FOOD RIOT
AMSTKItDAM, Keb. 21. A dispatch from Budapest states that 25 civilians
wero wounded as tho result of a riot lu connection with a police raid on houses
suspected of being the biding places of grain.
FRENCH LINER ESCAPES FROM GERMAN RAIDER
PATHS, Fob. 21. Tho captain of the French llnor Chicago, bound from New
York for Bordeaux, received two wireless messages when nearlng the Hay of;
Biscay, warning him of tho presence of "enemy corsairs." One was from tho,
captain of tho Lafayette, tho other from a French land wireless station. On
Thursday night a vessel suddenly appeared off tho Chicago's starboard. About
three miles away there was a heavy mist, so the outline was indistinguishable,
but the captain Is certain she was a German raider. The stranger signaled the
Chicago to heave to, The captain of the Chicago promptly ordered full steam
ahead. The stranger gave cliaso for a quarter of an hour, but the Chicago was
making 17 knots, and outdistanced1 her.
FIRE DESTROYS CANADIAN MUNITIONS PLANT
MONSTON, N. B., Feb. 21. Fire Jast night destroyed the large plant ut tho
Record Foundry Company here, which has ben making war munitions Tho.
Are Is believed to have been Incendiary, ulthough the beat wus such that a closo
investigation could not be made at once. So far as known all the workmen es
caped. The plant has been working day and night making British tnwniugui?
and was considered ono of ibu most valuable factories la the Dominion.
NEWS
ni
I
m
I
'ii
S
x
1
) II
J
