Lost or Fo u n d
T-D Want Ads Wilt Help You
Find It?Randolph One
66th YEAR
VOI.UMK. CO
M'MIIICIl til
RICHMOND, VA., MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, J916.
Our W omans Page
The Cleverest of Fashion Cuts.
Useful /lints, etc.
TEN PAGES.
WKATIIKU
I'anc I
?FAIR
PRICE, 2 CENTS
SENATE 10 RESUME1
TAXATION INQUIRY
Committee Will Consider To
Night Increase on Telegraph
and Telephone Companies.
EARLY VOTE ON COLLEGE BILL
Measure Providing for Co-Ordi
nate Institution for Women Is
Slated for Debate Thursday.
Senate tax students will turn their
attention to-nitrht to telegraph and
telephone companies for the purpose of
examining into the ability of these cor
porations to bear a s I i k h 11 y increased
tax b?ir<len. Their brothers of the
?"team and electric transportation field
have already been ?!:?ted by the Finance
Committee l'or tax Inrri-asiM that are
estimated to yield the State additional
revenues of more than $2^0,000 an
nually. It is regarded as more than
likely that proportionate tax increases
will be recommended by the committee
on the revenues of telephone and tele
graph companies also.
Kepresentatlves of these corporations
will be Kiven a bearing to-niK'nt by
the Seriate Committer on T'inancc j? the
State Corporation Commission court
room. At the same time the committee
will hear also from companies operat
inif in this State fruit, refrigerator,
tank, oil and other special cars. A
bill passed by the special session of
1015. bringing the rolling ?!ork of
thes?" companies under taxation, was
found to be inoperative, and an effort
will be made by the present session to
correct the defects of the measure on
the statute books and impose on these
interests their proper share of taxa-.
tion. A new bill to this end has he?ri
introduced at the h stance of the State
Corporation < 'ominisslon.
RATIFY M\ri? llll.I. IX
m:na it: this \vi:i:k
Tins will see tl?** ratification
of the Mapp bill in the Senate and the ,
shifting of 'he prohibition spotlight
to th?- 11 ouse. Th- bill 1? expected 10
reach a vote in the Senate some
lime to-morrow. It* passage ;s >?? r
tnin Th- bill will be referred on the .
other Hid" of tho Capitol to th. House
? 'oniniittce on Moral and Social Wel
fare, of which I'elegute Jordan, of
Pulaski, is chairman. Th's eomtnitt<-e
will lose no time in reporting the m?;a;;
and it will probably !>?? on the
Hons* calendar b\ the < nd ..." ???' wee|%
Tii" crystallization of the '..?ener:?l .
Vssembly'H s'-ntiMv nt on the troublous
.subject of taxation has resulted in a
clearing of the fiscal situation, ena
bling the frnmern of ihe appropriation
bill to put in several productive scb- i
slons Chairman Hrewcr. of the House
Appropriations Committee, was of the
belief yesterday that ihc general bill,
appropriating th" ?? ttimated revenues'
the Common wen 1th for the years
I91f. and Tr? 1 T. will be ready for Intro- j
ductton in the House probably b>
Tbut silii ;?.
? o-oititin v i i: < t?i.i.!:<???:
I OMK* t 1* THl'llMI.W
l'tib'h> thcr?* i*- a hitch in the plans ;
of i-pposiittr b :?der:?. the ro-ordlnato
college bill will come up as a special
order ir. the House on Thursday ?
probably reaching a ^f,tr' on the same
day A round thi- bill renters what is
in m.itiy respects the most picturesque
fight of the session. On no bill before
the present General Assembly is the
sentiment so divided.
Among the advocates of the co
ordinate '-"liege bill arc numbered the
leading men in the lower house. Twenty
member.*, are sponsors for the bill as
patron.**, the list Including Speaker
Hotiston and I* loor l^eader ^ lllis.
Counting to-day. the General Assent- j
bly of 131C- itas eighteen more working j
days In which to dispose of its husi- |
noss. Already it is apparent Uiat a
large number of bills will go to their i
death because it will be impossible to
llntl the time in which to consider them. ,
ijn th<- House calendar are about l*>0 j
bills, and on the Senate calendar a
number almost as large. Morn than j
HiO bills are still awaiting action by (
House committees, and must take their ,
place at the foot of the calendar if
they are fortunate enough to be re- |
ported.
IICSIN'KSS IS IN t.OOJ)
SICAI'K i'Oll ACTION" ;
While the congestion of the cal
endars is becoming marked, the busi
ness of the two houses is probably in
better shape than it was at this period
of any session in recent years. Tin
score or more measures of the. first j
magnitude that will stand out as the
big work of the session of H'J* have I
either been brought to a vote or are |
in such a position that there will bo i
ample opportunity for their considera- ,
tion between now and the end of the |
session.
There has been a marked tendency
at the present session to avoid tying j
up the machinery of legislation with I
the consideration of subjects Involving
a "iftrRP amount of attention and re- ,
search. Thus, with tho exception of '
the passage in the House of the auto
mobile tax bill, there has been no at- ;
tempt to work out a general readjust- !
ment of (he road laws. This arduous :
task bids fair to be delegated to a .
special commission, which works In
vacation. Two resolutions having this
for their object have been introduced ;
in the House.
VrORKINKMBVS COMPENSATION
IIKKOHM COMMISSION" j
Similarly, both houses avoided what j
promised to be a long-drawn-out tight ;
on the subject of worklngmen's com- ,
ponsalion laws, by voting for a joint |
commission charged with the duty of :
presenting a bill adapted to Virginia,
conditions at the next session. Had J
the present session attempted to deal t
with this question, It would yndoubtod- j
ly have been prevented from dealing
with other measures of perhaps more
immediate Importance.
TUc tendency to make greater use of
legislative commissions is evidenced
further by the Drowning resolution
appointing a joint, commission to make
i study of the entire machinery of
State government, with the view of
recommending economies in adminis
tration to tho next General Assemblj.
Jean Crones Taunts
Police of New Yorfa
Poisoncd-Soup Chef Tells Them
in Note They Are Not Clever
Enough to Catch Ilim.
NGW VOHK, February 2<>.?a pen
ciled note, purporting to have been
written last night, and dropped with
out envelope f>r stamp into a mail box
at the Orand Central Station here by
.lean Crones, the fugitive <-h<>f accused
| of having attempted to poison the
? guests at a dinner In honor of Arch
bishop Mundelein, in Chicago, was re
> ceived by the police to-<lay. The note
j said Crones was "sorry to he obliged
? to leave the good city of New York
' for my safety's sake," but added:
j "You're really not cbver at all. Your
j detectives are looking for rue. and no
i one can catch me."
The note, addrossed to the "Chief of
j I'olice, New York," said also that
j I'roncK was at the Orand Central J5ta
I tion at. J1:3>i o'clock last night, and
concluded with the sentence, "thanks
? for your kindness."
j It was midnight when the note was
received at the post-ofliee, and at
tracted the attention of a clerk, who
?urrifMi it over to the police.
| Although the Orand Central Station
j had been under surveillance several
days, the police there declared they
had not seen ("rones or any one re
sembling h tin. They said, however,
there was no doubt in their minds that
j Crones was the author of the note
ICxtra precautions were taken here
to-day to guard Roman Catholio
I churches. The police also are keeping
. dose watch on a!) avenues of communi
? satinn leaving the city. In the hope of
thwarting any phin of Crones to leave
1 her* .
HOW NAVY IS KEPT UP
l.rent llrltutn lliii Murr Than Million
I'rrsona Knjii?cril In Viirtnu*
Ttranchrn of Sea Fnrrc,
LONDON, February 20.?The magni
tude of the work going on In the navy
is shown in a letter from the admiralty
to Kir Gilbert Parker, answering his
Inquiry in the House of Commons on
the number of people enicaged in all
branches of the navy ami of naval
work.
The letter states that the navy proper
had I4S.000 officers and men when the
war broke out. which number has now
increased to 320.000, with the authority
granted for a further increase to 350.
'?(?0 and sii'-n. besides <>7.000
naval reserves. There are also Sfi.000
men ? -imaged in work at royal dock -
yards and other naval establishments
and several times that numher on ad
miralty work under contract and sub
contract.
Besides these, the letter specifies mon
engaged In getting coal for the fleet,
dock side workers ar.d civilian crews
of oilers, mine sweepers, supply ships,
etc . and In addition men and women
engaged in making clothing and pre
paring food for the fleet.
Thomas J. MacNamara. financial
secretary of tlv admiralty, adds:
"If asked to put the matter in a sen
tence. I should soy that for every man
in the navy, of whom there are sorne
thirie like CfNV'ftO, there are certainly
two persons, ami po.sstldy ^vn three. at
w ork on ship construct ion. repairing
and contributing to the. general ef
ficiency and lighting ability of the
An aggregate of more thar. a million
persons engaged i:i various branches
of naval work is thus shown.
PEACE ADVOCATES MEET
Conference for ( untlntMinn Mediation
In Outgrowth of Henry Forii'n
Mi pe?lltion.
STOCKHOLM, February 20.?An un
official meeting of the neutral confer
ence for continuous mediation, the out
growth of the Henry Ford peace ex
pedition, was held here yesterday.
Nikolaus GJelsvik. professor of inter
national Jurisprudence in the Univer
sity of Kristiania, and legal adviser on
international law of the Nobel Insti
tute. spoke at length on his interpreta
tion of the causes of war.
It was announced that Switzerland
had elected eleven delegates to the
neutral conference.
FRENCH STEAMER SUNK
Memphis Is Destroyed by Austrian
Submarine OtV Port of
Iltirnun.
PARIS. February 20.?The French
steamship Memphis has been sunk by
an Austrian submarine off Durazzo. ac
cording to a Vienna dispatch.
The French steamship Memphis was
a vessel of 2,382 tons gross, huilt at
Dundee in 1S91, and owned by the Mes
aagerics Marltimes, of Paris. Her port
of registry was Marseilles. The last
mention of her in the maritime reg
isters was on January 10, when she was
at Marseilles.
PRESIDENT TO SPEAK
On Program ror Kxerclsivs In t elelirw
t Ion of HlOth Anniversary wf
Amerlenn Ilihle Society,
f.Special to The Times-Dispatch. J
NEW YORK, February 20.?Presi
dent Wilson will speak during the
ceremonies commemorative of the one
hundredth anniversary of the Amer
ican Ulble Society, which begins in
Washington on May s. Celebrations
are being planned for more than forty
large cities.
FIVE PERSONS ARE KILLED
Vortli Const Limited Crashed Into Hear
End of Northern Paellle and
Ilurllngton Train.
SPOKANE, WASH.. February 20.?
Five persons were killed and six in
jured to-day when a Northern Pacific,
passenger train, known as the North
Coast Limited, eastbouiul, crashed into
the rear end of a Northern Pacific and j
Hurllngton train, also eastbound,. at
Cheney. Wash., seventeen miles from j
Spokane.
They Are Seeking to Make Po
litical Capital Out of Rela
tions With Germany.
ADMINISTRATION PREPARED
Democratic Senators This Week
Will Meet Efforts Put Forth j
by Opposition.
WASHINGTON". February -<? Dis
cussion from an administration view
point of the submarine issue with Ger
many will he undertaken in tin? Senate
this wpp'k, I'eiiiocrats. led bv Senator
?
chairman of the Foreign rteia
tiotis Committee, have determined ?<>
meet what they term an effort on the
part of Republican Senators to make a <j
partisan is^'je of the situation that
lias arisen since the German ad
miralty's determination to sink all
enemy merchant ships, whether armed
for Offense or defense.
Senators Sterling and I-od^e. Uepub
> ii'-ans. discussed the subject last week.
( urging that for the L'nited States to
1 yield to the rinhf of Germany to sink
I defensively armed merchant ships
. would be an unneutral act and a st'-p
toward war. Senator Stone sai?! he
1 would answer some of the arguments
made by the Republicans, but declared
the situation was one of such grave
importance that it should not h^ de
, bated in the Senate in a partisan way.
The Missouri Senator has conferred
i with President Wilson and Secretary
; I-ansing. and his views are awaited
with interest bv members of both
houses, who do not conceal their belief
that the nation is facing the greatest
diplomatic crisis since ihe beginning
of ihe European war.
MK.VICAX iri'AIHS TO
hk Aiitnn i.v m:\aii:
Mexican aff.-.irs also are to be aired
i atrain in the Senate, Republican Sena- !
tors planning to attack the President's,
report on Senator Kail's resolution
, asking for information concerning the '
Oarranr.a government. Senator Kail :
has expressed disappointment because'
tho President and Secretary Lansing,
did not. fiiFciosc diplomatic correspon- j
denee relating to political conditions in
; Mexico which leil tip to the recognition
of Curranza. In the Koreign Relations
j ('!ommltti!t on Wednesday the. nomina- I
j tion of Henry Prath?r Kleteher at; nm- ;
j bassadoi trt Mexico will bo considevcd, '
land administration Senators propose to i
demand a vote on a motion to recotn
| mend his confirmation to the Senate.
The action on the nomination lias been
? held up pending the President's Mexi
can report. There lias been no opposi- ?
tion, <;vn from Republican sources, to j
j Mr. Klef.her personally, and the pen- '
, ??ral opinion at the Capitol is that his
nomination will he confirmed before
, t lie end of the week.
jlMI'OKT.WT mi:\sihi:s WII.I.
UK CO.N'MDKIiKII
?
Other important matters to occupy
attention of the Senate brunch during'
the week will be the Haitian treaty, aj
resolution to direct congressional In
vestigation into charges <>f ineflicienev
of the army aviation service, continua
i tion of the inquiry into the fitness of
1 Louis l). Brandeis for the Supreme '
?'oijrt. water-power legislation, anil
further inquiry into the alleged effort
, of American interests to monopolize
; the sisal output in Yucatan.
In both houses the preparedness pro- j
j gram will he urged in committees
? which are framing the army and navy <
? bills. There is general satisfaction ,
j among administration leaders over the '
i progress that is being made, and the
: apparent disappearance of much of the i
i early opposition t'? the necessity for a
, reasonable plan of national defense.
The Kitchin resolution to repeal the'
: free-sugar clause of the Underwood- I
Simmons tariff law may he reached late :
' this week in the House. The. Demo
erats already have notified Majority
i Leader Kitchin that they will not he '
i hound hy the caucus decision to support
. the measure when a vote is taken.
Other Democrats may join the "insur- i
gent" ranks, it is said. As .vet no at- j
tempt has been made by the opposition j
' to perfect an organization, and it 'is i
probable that they will do no more ;
than speak and vote against it. indi- ]
vidually. Majority lenders aver that |
1 adoption of iIso resolution in the. House 1
J is assured.
POST-OFK1CE APPUOPHIATIO.V
WII.I, PASS KAItl.Y IX \\ KKK j
The post-oflloe appropriation bill will j
be passed early this week. The space '
. system of railway pay and employee's
guaranty-fund clauses are expected to
he adopted approximately as drawn by ;
j the committee.
If consideration of the free-sugar
i resolution does not follow passage of
the post-olHec bill, the Burnett inirni- 1
! gration hill will be taken up instead.
Representative Sabath and others op- ?
posed to the literacy test will wage a
determined tight on the floor against !
the measure. The Asiatic exclusion 1
bill now is being read by paragraphs
in the Immigration Committee, and its
; introducer, Representative Kaker, of :
I California, hopes to have it reported. j
OIL TANKER SINKS
' Cnrgo Will lie Pumped Into llargr* !
and VcmmcI ItulNeil uud I'ut
Into l>ry Dock.
[Special to The Timos-Dlspalch.]
| N'KW YORK. Kebruary 20.?The big \
j Standard Oil tanker John 1>. Archbold
j sank on Ited Hook Klats, off South I
' Brooklyn, to-day. as a result of dam- >
i ages received in a collision yesterday
with the British steamer Hovn.
Owing to the shallow water in that
part of the bay. the vessel's deck is
Just above water. Several oil barges ,
are alongside, and tugs with powerful !
pumps are pumping the cargo oil into i
the barges.
The vessel will he raised and put I
into dry dock.
Officials Show Unconcealed Con
cern Over Probable Nature
of German Reply.
TENSION AGAIN INCREASING
Lansing Denies Idea of Calling
: On Teutonic Diplomats to Stop .
Discussing Negotiations.
WASHINGTON*. I?. <*.. February 'JO.? j
Tension is increasing in the situation
i
, I)?iu('cn the United Stales and Cut cen
tral powers as t? response is awaited
| from Berlin to the latest r.- iuest of
the American jrovernment for definite
assurances reirardinp the conduct of
submarine warfare. There w?r>? no
i new developments to-day, but n? \>w
.of intimations from Teutonic diplomats!
: and apparently significant news dis
patch"*. officials are awaitinsr word
I from Merlin with unconcealed concern.
Indication of til'.- attitude of the Ber
lin Foreipn Office may be received to- '
morrow or Tuesday in confidential re
ports from Ambassador Gerard. Of
Tcials still hope that the i.'Sieial .-1.1-:
; vices will not conform to t'.ie indica- ?
tions in the press dispatches th^t the!
(J'-rman government is unalterably op
I?oseil to modifying its proposed irst?Mi
? tions tn sink all merchant ships of the.
entente allies without warning after
February 29.
Count von Bernstorff, the German
'ambassador, probably will have if
eeived a reply to his dispatch before
the middle of the week. As the ;>osi- 1
; tion of the United States was ex -
plained to the Austrian representative.
Baron Krich Zwledlnek, only yester
day. Vienna would hardly be heard
fr'>m for at least a week.
r. S. >11 ST QUICK I.V
FOHMl/'I.ATIJ I'OI.ICV
Tt is realized in official quarters that 1
whatever policy the United State-* tic- <
oieV>s to pursue will have to be formu
lated quickly. Only nine clays remain
before commanders of German and Aus
trian submarines will begin to put
their new Instructions into effect, an
less the central powers decide to post- j
pone the or?l<-r pending the outcome of
negotiations with the United States.
Secretary Lansing: to-day denied re - '
ports that he contemplated calling on .
high Teutonic diplomats to discontinue \
the giving out of information concern- j
inrr diplomatic negotiations. He aald i
there was tin change in his official or'?
personal relations with Count von
RernstorfT or Raron Zwieelin^k.
!t. has he^n known for some time,
that administration officials objected
to information regarding diplomatic i
negotiations, ahout which the State Pe ? !
partment was silent, reaching the prb
? ic apparently through diplomatic
sources. It is said at the Pt'tte Depart,
ntfliil that unless diplomats atop dl
vulging information, the department
may take into consideration the ques
tion of having them withdrawn, al-j
though so fnr such action is not actual- |
ly contemplated. i
si ui*iiimod vr \ctiov
ok vox itr.iivsT?i:i r
t>ffioiiils to-day recalled that during
th-.- Uusitania negotiations surprise was
expressed in an official note by thi'<
government that ('oiini vo? Remstorff
.' lionlil have resorted to the nowfcpape-rn J
to "address the people of the United ,
States." This was the warning a river- j
tisemcnt published by the German em- ?
bassy before the Lu.sitania sailed. It
was referred to in Secretary Rrynn's !
firPt Lmitania note of Jhv !,1 as a;
"su rprising irregulari ty."
The wide divergence of views be- '
tween the German and Austrian de- ;
orees and the instructions sent to;
American ambassadors, ministers and
consular officers regarding conduct of
submarine warfare creates a conflict I
for which ue> present solution is seen i
by administration ejflicials.
SITUATION M mi.Utl/.KI)
lt\ COMi'KTK.N'T AI TIIOHITVj
In the language of a competent au- I
thorlty, the situation was summarized
as follows:
"Germany has ?iven notice substan
tially Hint she will sink armed mer- :
ehantmeii without warning. This gov- t
eminent thinks that whether a mer
chantman is armed for defense only or :
armed in the sense implied by Germany j
is a question of fact, and. therefore, ,
that offensive armament cannot be as- '
sumed. This government has sent in
structions to its ambassadors and min
isters. and these instructions make no ;
distinction as between merchantmen, j
Wo regard liners, passenger ships. J
freight-carrying ships, and even tramps
as entitled to all the obligations duel
from belligerents and neutrals under ,
international law. This attitude of i
ours has never been changed. IOxpres
sions to the etfeet that the law 'might
bo changed' or new regulations made, 1
die! not. because they could not. change
international law. The United States i
alone, could not change a law, even if
it had made suggestions which are not
now international law. N'either the '
German government nor any other had j
a right to assume that any suggestion i
by the I'ntted States made in the '
memorandum which was sent to the I
allies, anil not to Germany, could be a i
justification for the belief by Germany |
that the United States would undertake
to change International law." ?
Officials are not prepared to say that
a middle ground may not be suggested. ;
If there is such suggestion, they wili '
consider it. The reply of the German 1
government to the expression of views ;
given by the United States last week :
may change the situation.
"It might materially moriif the rela- !
tietns of the two countries to the con- j
troversy," was the way the administra* j
lion authority put it.
Munition.* I'lnttl Destroyed.
MONO TON, N'. R.? February 20.?Tho
plant e?f the Record Foundry, where
war munition* were manufactured, was
destroyed by lire late lo-night.
I
Four Seaplanes Drop Number of
Bombs.on Lowestoft and
Walmcr.
ESCAPE PURSUIT BY AIRMEN
Total Casualties, Two Men and
One Boy Killed and Consider
able Material Damage.
I.i >XI n>\. l-Vi.ruary ^0.-- t-'??ur ili r
liian seaplanes t<>-day nt<?<1 ? ? a raid over
111?? oa yt and southeast coasts of K:uv
land, according to an official announce
ment made this evening:. Tlu' total
casualties ;?>-e (? iv*mi as two men and
one hoj Ui11 ??< 1 and one marine wounded.
' "onsiderable material ilatuaco was
done*. j
"1*11c- official communication say*.
"Konr ? icrnian seaplanes made a r.iid
over the e:i3t and southeast coasts at ?
niji'ii to-day.
"Tlie first raiders, two biplanes. ap
peared over I.owestoft at 10:.~.i M.
and circled over the south side of the1
town for five minutes and dropped
hortilis In about five minutes they rose
to h ureat height and seemingly van
ished. At 1 1 :1'i A. .\l. the two sea
planes were ana in over the town, and
then vanished eastward a pain.
"Altogether seventeen small hich
exploslve bombs wore dropped. There
were no casualties, (^onsidcral)le <iain- 1
aire was caused to the outbuildings i?f
a restaurant and to two dwelllnp
houses. Two naval seaplanes went up
at 11 :(>."> A. M. and pursued the raiders,!
but without result.
I.AST ItAIDKfl II A K10 S
' STHAHiHT KOIt \V \ 1,11 Kit ?
'.Meanwhile, two other tJerman sea-1
I'liines were making for the Kentish !
coast. The first passed over 111*-? Kent-i
ish Knock light vessel, dropping bombs
in that vicinity at 11:20 A. M. Tho;
last raider made straight for Walmer. ,
Reaching that town at 11:2" A. M., j
flying at lfss than 2.500 feet, it dropped j
six bombs, and turned sharply to the!
cast.
"Two of the bombs that fell de-j
.st roved r.lot's and broke windows in j
the neighborhood. One of them fell i
close to a church, blowing in the >
windows as the congregation was sing- j
ing "IV Deum.' A third bomb foil on;
a roadway running along the beach, '
killing one civilian anil injuring one;
ma rine.
"'The total casualties were two men
and one boy killed and one marine in
jured.
"Two of our aeroplanes which went i
up from Dover pursued the raider, but i
apparently eould not overtake him." ;
NOT VKIIY SIOIIIOL'S
OAM.VtiK \T I.OW IJSTOKT |
I.UWJ'JHTCiFT. February I'd.?Tin; j
damage done here by tin: air raiders '
was not very serious. One bomb de
molished the corrugated roof of a saw
mill: another unroofed a private house:
a third smashed the windows of a hotel,
while a fourth smashed the windows
of a church, without injuring any of j
the worshipers.
Another bomb fell squarely into a j
bedroom of a workman's hou.se. l.ut j
injured nobody. Several bombs fell j
harmlessly into gardens and va
cant lots.
In view of tho distance of Lowestoft 1
from the nearest hostile aviation base.!
it is recalled here that a German news- i
paper recently described a new ar- j
ranrctnent whereby a .submarine was j
combined with an aeroplane, the sub- j
marine acting as a submersible hangar. ;
from which a small seaplane could ,
operate, after being conveyed within 1
suitable distance of its object. >
The Primitive Methodist Chapel was i
missed only a few yards by a bomb. ;
The concussion from the missile which)
passed through the roof of an ndiuceut.
house, smashed many of the chapel !
windows. The morning service hud '
Just begun when a shower of glass j
and splinters fell on tho congregation.
No one was Injured, however, except j
a man whose Anger was cut. The small ;
congregation crowded into the vestrvj
until the danger was passed.
The streets of I,ow?stoft were crowd- )
ed with church-goers at the time of
the raid, but there was far more curios
ity among them than panic.
MAN AMI IIOV li11,1,1011
IIV IIOMIIS VI' \\ \l,.MI-:lt
WAIjMKM. Fehruarj 20.?The resi
dents of Walmer were startled this
morning by a series of loud explosions.
The day was bright and clear, and !
many persons rushed to points of ad- I
vantage in time to see a small aero- :
plane at an altitude of perhaps 1,000 j
feet.
Four bombs were dropped in a elus- '
tor, and landed within a circle of 1H0|
yards, killing a man and a boy.
Two British airmen were observed ?
in the air almost immediately after the
dropping of tho bombs, but the raider ,
made his escape. . :
The raider was over the town not!
more than a minute. There was a ,
momentary stoppage of the service in
st church near which bombs fell. Many .
members of the congregation left the j
building, but the service was resumed
and carried through
One of the victims w.is a pnper boy
on his rounds with the Sunday news
papers. He was killed instantly. An
other victim was a youth of nineteen, '
who has not > et been idrnt tiled.
Some of the bombs fell in the road- j
way, tanking large hob s. The whole
affair was over so quickly that most !
of (he people hardly realized what had i
happened. Some of those m the church i
say that the building was rocked with |
the concussion. The explosion of th. '
bombs was heard r.ll over Walmer.1
Deal and the surrounding district, but |
there was no panic.
A dramatic story of the narrow e.s- i
cape of a boat which hfid Just taken a j
pilot aboard at Walmer was told by i
tin- occupants of the boat. Three bombs |
fell into the sea directly in che wake I
of the boat, cituslng a tremendous tip-j
heaval of the water.
Diarbekr is Next
Russian Objective
T;iK It tissiu it iirm.v wliicli cap
tured tOr/criini. in A riiieiilo. 1m
riiili'iiviirini; to rul oil' the rrtn-nt of
tlir Turks, nlin lire retiring with
11 h much K|irril as possible. DIs
liiiti'lir.i from 1'etroKrnil report the
capture of tin* towns of Musli anil
tclilat. to t lie south, heavy fi^lilln^
|irri'f<lSiiK their I:iUIiik liy storm.
The next ulijeclive of tin- southern
ivIiik of the Mussina iiruir is Dlar
liekr, which lli-s within striking dis
tanco til' tin* llnutlail railway. This .
line would iipi-ii ii(i Ilic roail for the
Hussions Into Syria.
Motiu llir Hluek Sea const Itns
sian warships arc pnuudlnc at the
Turkish hiitferics and harassing the
rrtrciitlni; iroops. Tlir northern
wiiiK of the Kus-iian army has rap
tured the (own of W iiljr. and in
drlviiiK tin- Turks hack in the direc
tion of t^timish li hunch, w hich is on
l lie road to Trrlti/oud. while larjse
liiissiaii forces are moving westwaril
from Kr/.ernni. with the object of
ciittlnu on these Turkish troops lie
tore they can reach n new line of
defense.
PLAN OF HIDING BELGIUM
TO FEED HERSELF FAILS
Scheme Whs to Kehahilitate Indus
tries of Country I'wler Control
of .\mcriian Commission.
(2KRMANS KF.ilKK Gl'AHAXTKKS
Send No Iteply to Request for Prom
ise That Ilnw .Materials tintj Manu> i
fartured Goods Will Not He Seized
by Occupying .Armies.
ni.ltnD r>' 20-Th" P'?n of
aidl.u, Belgium to ft>Ctl herself llv r(> ,
habilitating the in.ltistrics of th- coun
try tinder control of the American j
nZT " ,for n?,iof ,n "*'*"??> ha* :
failed according to a letter written l,v
? Edward Grey, the British Foreign !
? ??rotary, to .\f Ifymans. the Belgian
ml?I..or h?r,. 0,r?^
r,u ,,av<> failed to replv ,o the !
rr.?,e?t for guarantees that rnw ma-i
rials an.J manufactured Roods will!
no, ,o ? th,
M 1,11 R"npf Commission
? '*ne nR? proposed that certain
?"* ra?.?lSl" !
.should ho permitted to pass through
the British blockade into Belgium;
~ood? manufactured from thorn to he i
re-eXp?ri u u.;,s ?pi f| ? lo ?
halanre of trade thus erentc.l in favor
0 elgfnni Should he Invested in food 1
thus put tinp tlln population as far as !
l.oss hi, UUrtn n seJf.,mv|nf, Imsis * I
at the same time checking tho growlnc- *
"r'niTT * >
foil,J S '0l,er '? ,,,e "?'nister j
' I'ear Minister.?During the last few'
motit is you have represented to me ?
in'lh-i? V Ul? ron,lill"n or industries ?
,i ' part ? of Belgium occupied hv ;
?>??' onemy. and the need for The ,m I
s !
pro-emed. UU?""']nym"?< ?'l ' -Mm ress |
vhowTtho1?^0^ " which
? nows the truo state of the case. i >
|V .,;,r ,Im 'IU..SI ion herewith dealt
reHef < S,,"T'S <n,? "Hgium hv the j
1 of commission. as ,o whioh the n i l
of His Majesty's government ' '
?I." work oFZ?"?' WiU
and so r? COmmissio? long
?iui so far as the work is <arri<wi
under adequate neutral supervision'
completely in neutral control and
compliance will, conditions laid down
from time to ?nin 1>v Mis MaiestvN
government. ? 3
?Signed, "R OURY."
M'oruo,,,, iip.r,.;iin,.;,i T?
HV S I It Klnvuu, CJHKV :
n?0 memorandum referred to by Kir '
.... r ?" ^ Part as follows ' !
it is understood thore is a stroncr j
feeling among the Belgians tint ?i,? !
industrial d 1st reus of Belgium i ? i '
;1,l,r'i,iiic<, -?"?* - "- a"is., of .ioi
' P?v?rnnients in preventing ,IM. !
.??? ? ? ?r?,? J ;
Mm. .icHon n???,.|;|Mv 1
normally. wl.lio ,, involvos ' ,
L ?r ?UPaa?\1' .
il. il n V B0,v""
u"m Z'0::, ?>"? ???'"
"r'"c"' .?livtm,.s,!
. ,. " vcrv considerable henef't !
r. ?i
ernment. it SI1SV flll|v ,IK
;V?;" net'csslty of support I !
"??IK,an population. |.'?r ,|Hs r.-aaoi,
Hullof ^ll,)P?rtftd the conmissiot, for
port tr i I r" en""' Permit ted ox-|
P it trad., from Belgium under certain
conditions. Also for this reason I '
memorandum adds ,.rtl .
=|e months ^d ^ ^
Klum Ihrough th? airericv** t
Kua ran tees of th^ eUef" U",,0r '
.sion. ,tUlf commls- |
"The undertakings demanded fro,,,
?m;:ss> m ?^i
!-?'?.fH^u^^;ooL,,:lJ^^,,or, ,,r''
zv'riTh.;h::,i,,;h th?"-???? s.H,n
v.,"1 r
pn,\itu. s and Immunities as on.- of'
the commission's warehouses.' '
VO OK 4 \ V Kim,
ItlOt'KIVIOI) I'It.mi
'noi-Mamlum. after expl?ni,.R
' '0r'n honed the plan would |,,vo
??duced uneinplyoin,.,,! am. vel'evod'
^? Population of mud, of the distress I
Winch is inseparable fro,,, B.>i ?
im^nunato Position. ^ vs u j
(Continued on Second PageV) j
ERZERUM CAPTORS
TRYING TO CUT OFF
RETREAT OF TURKS
Main Armies May Be Sur
rounded in Rapid Rus
sian Offensive.
PRESSING ADVANTAGE ?
GAINED ON BOTH FLANKS
Along Black Sea Coast, Sea
Forces Co-Operate With
Troops on Land.
PUSH ON TO MI'SII AM) KOPH
\"e\t Objective Is Diurhekr, Within
Striking Distance of Bag
dad Railway.
I'KTRt ICRAP. FVnrunry !fl 'vh T.on
ilon).-?Tlio Russians are pressing:
advantage gained at Kwrum on both
flunks on the right. along the TSIricU
Sea oast. l>y the co-operation of tho
sea and land forces they nrc driving
the Turks from nn? position after an
other to the east of Treblzond. am! it
if expected that active operations
aenlnst that Important seaport will
not he long deferred.
!n the last two days the Russian*
linvo occupied Witdje (\VI(He\ and
pressed forward ten or twelve miles
eastward. The tleet has destrovod in
succession several .shore batteries
which might have been of assistance
to thi* Turks, and l>y k^epln? well in
advance of the land fores and hy dc
stroyi?ig bridges over several streams
In the path of the retreating Turks has
rendered their retreat more difficult.
The fleet has been working so elosa
to the shore that the warships have
been reached by rifle Ore from tho
Turkish troops, while on the otn'ei*
hand, the ships have. spread confusion
in the ranks of (he Turks by dropping
shells among them.
On the left flank, nf'er the occupa
tion of ICooh. the Russians pushed on
to Mush and Achlal. the latt?r on Mm
north shore of F-ake Van. From Koph
to M -isli. sixty miles over 4nouMtaii*
roads, they fought several battles, and
occupied Mush by storm.
ni.MiiiKKu is m:\t
onjRrrivK or itissi.ws
; The Tirks (led southward 'o Plur
bekr, the next objective of the Rus
sian army. Once in possession ?>f
Diarbekr. it is only a day's march to
the Hagdad Railway. the last r?mam
ing commuuication into Syria.
The rapid Russian offensive bevond
T3r:'.erum. It is believed here makes it
iiossil !e that the retreat of the Turk
ish corps operating: along the P.lack
Sea coast and of th?>so troops who
w-re active in the Mush district before
the Russian occupation will be entirely
?"iii orr, and that the main Turkish
armlet will be surrounded. Tins fate
lias already overtaken the Thirty,
fourth I l\ bdon of the T-nth Corps,
which was ordered from ?>lti ro Krze
rum before the fall of the fori revs. As
telephone ??oiiinimiii'ntion* between
tbis 'rroii|? of Turkish forces and the
pairisnn at ICrxerum had been entirely
destroyed hy t|,o Russians, the Thirty
fourth Pi vision marched serenely on
t > Rrsorutn without suspicion that the
fortress was then about to surrender.
These, troops reached Krzenim from the
northwest at the verv nioiveiit that the
Peve-Moina line of forts f.-ll into litis,
shin hands, and the artnv which tin v
had come to assist was in full retreat.
The joa.i over which they had passed
was instantly occupied h> Ifissian
cavalry, ati<l as they were completely
surrounded. th< re was no alternative
but to surrender with guns. equipment
and artillery.
tcmkisk emirs \i.most
si:UK OI-' 1II0I.\<; C Al (.II P
>t 's regarded as almost inevitable
that the Turkish corps retiring along
the Black Sea coast under the destruc
tive tire of tin- Russian fleet and the
pressure of the Russian armies will he
cauKlit in the same sort of trap, as
the Turkish troops falling back from
W ulje to i Jumi.-h Khanel, .sti'.l have
a greater distance to ifo than the Rus
sian troops which are advancing from
Krzcrum to cut them off.
On the Turkish right flank, where
tne Ninth Corps is operating, th?k Turks
find themselves ,,n tho same precarious
position, since all the roads of re
treat to the north are gradually falling
under Itussian control. The retreat of
the Turkish armies everywhere is im
peded by deep snow, and the diflicult
character of the country. They are
without food and l ick .war supplies, and
tbere seems to be little possibility of
their offering- ? vcri temporary resist
ance of any strength to the Russian
advance.
illtlTlSII POSITION
stoh>ii;ii tiv (.kioiws
HKIMdN, February :'o tVia ivirelcs*
to Say vilie).-?A British position 3r>0
> ards long on the Yser Canal, north
of Vpres. has been .stormed bv CSennan
troop... an,,, headquarters announced
to-day. British attempts to retake the
trenches failed.
South of l.oos the British advanced
to the edge of one of the Herman mine
craters.
The text of the statement follows
Western theater of war: On the
\sor ("anal, north of Vpres. an Kngllsh
position :tr?0 meters long was stormed
by the t?ertiiRii.a \;i i:?R||Hh at
tempts to retake the trenches by night
hand-grenade attacks failed. The Her
mans took twenty prisoners
"South of l.oos, in lively engage
IllCnts, tlie fiii'iny advaneed to tho eil>;?
of one of the Herman mine ciatniM.
'North of Xcbuterne. to the north
of Albert, the Hermans obtained it
minor su.-cess In a night engagement,
taking several Knglish prisoners.
"In an air tight east of Promt*, an
