THE .UAlZttNA REPTJB
LICAK
t
The Arizona
Republican,
Full
Leased Wire
A. P. Report
The Sun
Always Shinea
Finest
Winter Climate
in the World
Aiv INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 21, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVI. NO. 278
BELGIUM
1
Proposed Plan of Aiding
Belgium by Rehabilitating
Industries Fails Because
Seizure of Material and
Products Imminent
SIR EDWARD GREY
GIVES REASONS
British Foreign Minister
Writes Letter to M. II v
mans, Belgian Minister in
London Telling AVhy the
Plan Does Not Succeed
Republican A. P. Leased Wirel
LONDON, Feb. 10. The proposed
plan of aiding Belgium to feed herself
by rehabilitating the industries of t lie
country under control of the American
commission for Relief in Belgium has
failed, according to a letter written by
Sir Edward Grey, the British foreign
secretary to AI. Hymans, the Belgian
minister here, because t lie Germans
thus far have failed to reply to the re
quest for guarantees that raw mater
ials or manufactured goods will not be
seized by the occupying armies.
Sir Edward Grey's letter to the Bel
gian minister follows:
Dear Minister: During the last
month you have -represented to me
frequently the condition of industries
in that part of Belgium occupied by
the eneriiy and the need for the im
port of raw material if those indus
tries were to be saved from ruin and
universal unemployment and distress
prevented.
"I now enclose a memorandum
which shows the true state of the case.
I should add that the question here
dealt with is entirely distinct from the
importation of foodstuffs into Belgi
um by the relief commission, as to
which the altitude of his majesty's
government remains that recently
Mated to parliament that the govern
ment will facilitate the work of the
commission as long and insofar as the
work is carried on under adequate neu
tral supervision, completely indepen
dent of German control and in com
pliance with conditions laid down from
time to time by his majesty's govern
ment. (Signed) "E. GREY."
The memorandum referred to by Sir
Kdward Grey is in part as follows:
"It is understood there is a strong
feeling among the Belgians that the
industrial distress of Belgium is to be
attributed solely to the action of the 1
allied governments in preventing im
ports and it is often contended that
this action does not appreciably harm
Germany while it involved a most
painful loss to the people of our ally."
The memorandum then explains that
the British government cannot agree
that Belgian industry can be main
tained in the present circumstances
without a very considerable benefit to
Great Britain's enemies and without
Involving a postponement of Belgian
independence. But the government,
it says, is fully impressed with the ne
cessity of supporting the Belgian pop-
illation. For this reason it has sup-
ported the commission for relief ;
Belgium and permitted export trade
from Belgium under certain condi-
tions. Also for this reason, the mem-
orandum adds, the government some
months ago asserted its willingness to
consider proposals for the importation
of taw materials into Belgium through
the agency and under the guarantees
of the relief commission.
"The undertakings demanded from
the Germans in connection with this
scheme" the memorandum continues,
"were simple. They were to permit
the free importation of raw materials
and the export of manufactured goods
made from such materials through the
relief commission. They were to re
spect and make free from all embargo
or requisition any stocks of similar
raw materials or manufactured goods
still remaining in the country. They
were in general to treat any factory
thus supplied by the commission as
enjoying the same privileges and im
munities as one of the commission's
warehouses."
The memorandum, after explaining
that it had been hoped the plan would
have reduced unemployment and re-
lieved the population of much of the
distress which is inseperable from Bel- I
Blum's unfortunate position, says it
was submitted to the German authori
ties at Brussels by the relief commis-
Klon four months, but, although inqui- lf.orlj demanding $25,000 ransom in
rics were made, no reply of any kind j gyjj, declaring that he would burn
wag received from the Germans. The1ne planted cotton and by-products,
(Kmtinutd on Paw" Five.) 'valued at $500,000, untessjt was im
WOlHILllSBl FATALLY HURT
WHEN AUTO Alt STREET CAR COLLI
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN DIEGO, Cal., Feb.
20. Miss,
Lena Herman of this city, suffered in
juries which resulted in her death;
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Reinach of San
Francisco, were seriously injured, and
John Brunner and brother, Carl, were
badly cut and bruised as a result of
a. head-on collision between an auto
mobile and a street car here late
last night. Mr. and Mrs. Reinach
TENSION GROWS AS SUBMARINE
WARFARE RESPONSE IS AWAITED
SHERIFF IS KILLED MD DEPUTY
WOUNDED IN B
FUGITIVES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Feb. 20. Dwight B.
Stephens, sheriff of Luna county,
N. M., was killed and a deputy
sheriff. Buck Sevier, seriously
wounded in a battle at Rincon, N.
M., today with five fugitives who
previously had escaped from the
jail at Deming, according to a re
port received here tonight. One of
the fugutives also was killed, it
was said.
Four of the fugitives, Francisco
Acosta, accused of murder; J. O.
Starr and G. Schmidt, alleged
burglars, and William O. Arsley,
charged with forgery, are reported
to have overpowered City Marshal
Tabor of Deming and locked him in
a cell. Tabor was relieved of his
watch, pistol and ?5 and sever?.!
rifles were taken from the jail of
fice. The men then obtained an au
tomobile belonging to D. O. Snod
grass. Snodgrass was robbed of
$20 and also thrown in jail. Joe
Cranston, held for vagrancy, was
FIVE ARE KILLED WHEN
TWO LIMITED TRAINS
CRASH IN DENSE FOG
Republican A. P. Leased Wire minutes later the Northern Pacific
Hl'oKAXE, Feb. rive persons train crashed into the rear of the
were killed and three seriously in- Burlington. Whether the Burlington
jured today at South Cheney, seven- train was behind schedule or the
teen miles west of Spokane, when a Northern I'acific train had made up
Northern I'acific train, known as the sufficient time to encroach on the
North Coast limited, ran into the running time of the Burlington has
rear of Northern I'aeiiic-Burlington not been ascertained,
train No. 4-'. telescoping an empty; On the body of Professor Elton Ful
day coach that was being "dead- mer was found an accident insurance
headed'' east into the rear pullman of card, providing for S2o,00(i insurance
the Burlington train which was stand- in case of death on the trip. The
ing in front of the station. The ac- policy was obtained just before he
cident occurred in a dense fog. I boarded the train at Pullman, Wash.
The dead: I Kailroad officials tonight were mi-
Prof. Elton Fulmer, state chemist,
ruIIman Wash.
I. J. Minnick
deputy oil inspector,
Spokane.
Lee N. Conry, traveling salesman
Portland, Ore.
J.J. White, Spokane.
Serionsiy injured:
R. J. Spear, pomeroy. Wash.
Dr. John Matthews, Everett
J. A. Payant, Los Angeles, Cal.
All the dead and injured either were
asleep or dressing when the crash
came. A score of persons had berths
in the car but several had just gone
into the dining car ahead and were
i"ot "jured. The others escaped witn;eacn person, weeM.v lo re oi.iainea on
'minor bruises. 'presentation of the bread card.
A lcial train from Spokane car-:
ried surgeons and nurses and re- i
turned before noon with the victims, f
Potn trains, eastbound, were being j
I detoured because of fiood conditions'
!n the Northern Pacific. The engineer
, of the Burlington train stopped
at
South Cheney for orders, and a few
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TORF:EOX, Mex., Feb. 20. Bandits,
led by General Canuto Reyes, captur
ed the property of the Tlahulilo Agri
cultural company, in the Laguna dis
trict Saturday, after scattering the
rl fncto efifpmmpni irarnson and
j ,ater were driven out of the place
.... reinforcements, hastily dispatched
from here, under General Santos, ac
cording to an official announcement
here today.
After capturing the property, offi-
ials stated, Reyes telephoned to Tor-
came here recently to visit friends.
ri, -.til ......
A neavy log, wnicn prevaiieu at m:
lime, is . blamed for the accident. The
automobile, traveling at a fair rate of
(peed, ran head-on into the street
car. The air brakes of the street car
were crippled by the impact and it
was neiessary for the motorman to
reverse the motor to bring the car to
a stop. The automobile was carried
many feet. It was totally wrecked.
REYES IS 11 BUI PUNT
UNLESS H RANSOM IS PI
UTILE M FIVE
FiM DE1I 11
put at the wheel and the party
started toward Rincon.
Roue Gomez, a Mexican arrested
at Deming, Tuesday, on an indict
ment charging him with connec
tion with the alleged Huerta plot
to start a new revolution in Mexi
co, refused to join in the jail break.
Tabor and Snodgrass were found
in the jail an hour after the es
cape and Sheriff Stephens, with
Deputy Sevier and a small posse
started in pursuit. The posse
came upon the fugitives at Rin
con. Stephens fell dead in the en
suing fight.
The four surviving fugitives are
believed to have fled toward the
Mexican 'border.
Later advices from Las Crures, X.
M., stated that Joseph Cranston, the
escaped prisoner who acted as chauf
feur for the fugitives, was killed by
! the posse and that J. (). Starr was
I wounded in the shoulder, captured
;and lodged in jail here. Acosta.
i Schmidt and Ashley are said to have
escaped.
able to definitely assign the cause of
Ithe
collision. An investigation has
been begun.
BUTTER CARDS NOW
-o-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN. Feb. 20, (Via London),
;Feb. 21. The bread card, which to
Wash. ! morrow will be a year in operation.
will be supplemented henceforth in
greater Berlin by a similar regula
tion with respect to butter. The ex-
ecutive authorities of Greater Berlin
have decided to limit the sale of
butter to a quarter of a pound for
NOBEL PRIZE WINNER DEAD
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
STOCKHOLM. Via London. Feb. 20.
K. F. Arnoldson. winner of a Nobel I
prize in 1 f OS, died here today, aged j
mediately paid. The raiders were driv
en out of the district, it was said
before the threat could be execute.
Telephone wires were cut at the
beginning of the final skirmish, in
which the bandits were routed, delay
ing receipt of the news here. No
serious damage was done by the ban
dits, it was stated, hut they carried
off all clothing and provisions in
American -owned houses and 40,000
pesos in Carranza currency.
The burning of two Mexican Central
allway bridges between Escalon and
Jiminez leads to the belief that Reves
approached from that direction. Car- I
ranza reinforcements encountered the j
raiders near the Tlahulilo ranch, ac
cording to the official announcement,
which added that they were now re
treating. It was announced yesterday that
Americans had been warned to leave
the. Tlahulilo district. v
Passengers arriving here 'rom Du
rango report that the Carranza gen
frai, Murguin, dominates that state
with the assistance of Domingo Ar
rieta, who is said to have commanded
the forces that defeated bandits re
cently at San Gabriel. They assert
that General Argumedo, reported here
to have been sent south to confer
with General Carranza on peace in
Ourango is still a prisoner in the hos
pital at Durango City Mariano Ar
rta, it is reported, is still in jail.
General Jacinto Trevino, it is said,
expects shortly to clear the railroad
between Torrenn and Parras of a few
bandits, headed by General Chacon.
Officials at Washington
Await AVord from Berlin
With Unconcealed Con
cern ; May Hear From
Gerard hv Tomorrow
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Feb. 20. Ten
sion is increasing in the situation
between the United States and the
central powers as a response is
awaited from Berlin to the latest
request of the American govern
ment for a definite assurance re
garding the conduct of submarine
warfare.
There were no new develop
ments today, but in view of inti
mations from Teutonic diplomats
and apparently significient news
dispatches, officials are awaiting
word from Berlin with unconceal
ed concern. It is possible that of
ficial indication of the attitude of
the Be iin foreign office may ;e
received tomorrow or Tuesday in
confidential reports from Ambas
sador Gerard.
Officials still hope that the of
ficial advices will not conform to
the indicat:ons in the press dis
patches that the German govern
ment unalterably opposed to
modifying Its declared intention to
sink &H armed merchant ships of
the entente allies without warr
ing after February 29.
Count von tiernstorff, the German
ambassador, who transmitted the
views of the United States to Ins
government late Thursday night,
probably will have received a reply
to his dispatches: before the middle
if the week As the position of the
V'lited States was explained to the
representative of Austria, Baron
Zwiedinek, only yesterday. Vienna will
hardly be heard from for at least a
week.
It is realized in official Washing
ton that whatever policy the United
States has decided to pursue will have
to be formulated quickly. Only nine
ciayw remain before commanders of
German and Austrian gulnnarines will
begin to put their new instructions j
into effect unless the central powers
decide to postpone the order pending
the outcome of the negotiations with
the I'nited States.
Future action will be decided upon
after official information concerning
tbe attitude of the central powers is
received at the state department.
Secretary Lansing denied reports
today that he contemplated calling
high Teutonic officials to the state
department to explain various recent
newspaper dispatches from Washing
ton. He said there was no change
in his official or personal relations
with Count von Bernstoiff or Baron
7',w ieiMnek.
It has been known for some time
that administration officials objected
to information regarding diplomatic
ncgotialions about which the state de
partment was silent, reaching the
public, apparently through diplomatic
sources. It is said at the state de
partment that unless diplomats stop
divulging information the department
may lake into consideration the ques
tion of having them withdrawn, al
though so far such action is not ac
tually contemplated.
Discussion from an administration
I viewpoint of the submarine issue with
! Germany will be undertaken in the
senate this week. Democrats, led by
Senator Stone, chairman of the for
eign relations committee, have de-
- j termined to meet what, they term
euort on me pari oi me lep'.ioucan
senators to make a partisan issue of
the situation that has arisen since the
German admiralty's determination to
sink all enemy merchant shi s. wheth
er armed, for offense or defense.
Senators Sterling and Lodge, repub
licans, discussed the subject last
week, urging that for the United
States to vield the right of Germany
to sink defensively armed merchant
ships 'would be an unneutral act and
(Continued on Page Five.)
o
EARTHQUAKE IS
RECORDED FROM
EAST TO WEST
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN JOSE, Cal, Feb. 20. An earth
quake estimated to have had its ori
gin 7,000 miles away was recorded on
the horizontal component of the seis
I mograph at the Santa. Clara Univer-
sity today. ".The record began at 9:i3
a. m ' stated I'rof. Albert J. Newlin,
"an continued upwards of two hours
in the form of a sinusoid. The east
vest movement was the more pro
nounced."
Recorded at St. Louis
ST. LOUIS, Feb. 20. A series of
earth shocfts was recorded at the St.
Louis University today between 11:5!
a. m. and 1:09 p. m. The distance wat
about 4.60H miles, apparently off th
coast ol Chile.
Nearer Buffalo,
BUFFALO, N. Y.. Feb. 20. Earth
iuakes of considerable severity and at
an estimated distance of 3.400 miles,
were recorded on the seismograph at
Canisius College today. Two preT.m
in iry shocks were recorded at 1:01 and
1:03. The combined main shocks last
ed irom 1 : IS until 1:37. After shocks
were recorded at 2.21. The direction
was en.-t to west.
ENGLISH COAST AGAIN
VISITED BY PLANES IN
SABBA TH DA Y AIR RAID
Four German Air Craft Fly
Over East and Southeast
Coasts ; Two Men and One
Bov Killed; .Much Ma-
terial Damage
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Feb. 20. Four German
aeroplanes today made a raid over the
east and southeast coasts of England,
according to an official announcement
made this evening. The total casual
.!
ties are given as two ien and one boy
killed and one marine wounded. Con
siderable material damage was done.
The official communication says:
"Four German seaplanes made a raid
over the east and southeast coasts at
noon today.
"The first raiders, two biplanes, ap
peared over Lowestoft at 10:55 a. m.,
and circled over the south side of the)
town for five minutes and dropped
nonius. in anoui. rive minutes mey
rose to a great height and seemingly
vanished. At 11:50 a. m. the two sea
planes were again over the town and
then vanished eastward again.
"Altogether seventeen small high ex
plosive bombs were dropped. There
were no casualties. Considerable
damage was caused to outbuildings, of
a restaurant and to two dwelling
houses. Two naval seaplanes went up
at 11:05 a. m., and pursued the raider;
but without result. ! i;lcK 111 ",e m,r'11"" "l """
"Meanwhile, two other German sea- j Khaneh, which is on the road to Tre
planes were making for the Kentish i lllzond- wm,e larse Russlan forcPS
coast. The first passed over theare moving westward from Erzerum
Kentish Knock light vessel, dropping
bombs in that vicinity at 11:20 a. m.
The last raider made straight for Wal
mer. Reaching that town at 11:27 a.
m flying at less than 2500 feet, it
dropped six bombs and turned sharply
to the east.
"Two of the bombs that fell destroyed
roofs and broke windows in the neigh
borhood. One of them fell close to a
church, blowing in the windows as the
congregation was singing "Te Deum."
A third bomb fell-on a roadway run
ning along the beach, killing one civil
ian and injuring one marine.
"The total casualties were two men
and one boy killed and one marine in
jured. "Two of our aeroplanes which went
from Dover pursued the raider, but
apimrently could not overtake him."
The British official statement, issued
tonight on the campaign in the west,
reads:
"The enemy last night made" a raid
:ainst our trenches west of Serre,
after a heavy bombardment. The raid
failed completely. Southeast of Boe-
singhe the enemy seized an unimport
ant advanced post.
"A successful night raid was made
by our aeroplanes against the Cambai
Aerodrome, bombs being dropped onBerat- situatpa about S1 mileH north.
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Feb. 20. A pencilled
note, purporting to have been written
last night and dropped without enve
lope or stamp into a mail box at the
Grand central station here by Jean
Crones, the fugitive chef accused of
having attempted to poison the guests
at a dinner in honor of Archbishop
MundeUin in Chicago, was received by
the police today. The note said Crones
was "sorry' to be obliged to leave the
good city of New York for my safety's
sake-' but added "you really are not
clever at all. Your detectives are
looking for me and no one can catch
me."
The note addressed to the "Chief of
Police. New York" said also that
Crones was at th Grand Central sta
tion at 11:3)! o'clock last night, and
concluded with the sentence, "thanks
for your kindness."
Although the Grand Central station '
had been under surveillance several
days the police here declared they had
not s'cen Crones or any one resembling
him. They said, however, there was
no ('oubt in their mind that Crones
was the ow'ner of the note.
Crones has written several letters to
local newspapers since escaping from
Ccago, but this was the first direct
communication the police have re-
,:eh:ei- Kxtnl Ijr?rautios were taken.
IN GREECE UK
Republican A. P. Leased Wire v
BERLIN, (via wireless to Savi!le).
Feb. 20. "Reports from Contantino
ple stale," says the Overseas News
Agency, "that according to official
telegrams from Athens the ministers
of Great Briti'in, France. Russia and
1 I LINTS GOTHAM
ENTENTE TROOPS TO OCCUPY RAILROAOS !
.ia,y a.mounceu lo r-.en.,e. ouu-n pa... oi ,e Kingdom or Greece., Collector Hamilton acted on advice
dis that the entente council in Paris separated from the Hellenic mainland from the treasury deartment at Wash
had ordered the military occupation j by the gulfs of Patras. Corinth and ington in permiting service of the
of all the Greek railroads and tele- Aegma. Thessalonica is one of the 'court s order and it is understood that
graphic stations in Thessalonica and ( several names of Saloniki, which has the government will not attempt to
Morea by entente troops. The min- been an entente allied base for many j interfere with the proceedings until,
isters insinuated ill case Greece did ( months, and in the region of which a decision has been handed down, so
not submit voluntarily to the meas- the entente powers have massed long as there is no attempt to in
ure, force would be used. strong forces and erected extensive .terf ere with the actual status of the
"A Greek military council," the dis fortifications. ship. Xhe maUe'r now is the subject
IP,
MAJOR
MYTON NOT
GUILTY OF MURDER
1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SALT LAKE CITY. Feb. 20.
Major Myton, former Indian agent
and well known in politics here,
! was found not guilty last night of
the murder of Roy J. Horton.an j
, I. W. W. street orator, by a jury
in the district court. Myton shot
j and killed Horton on the street
I here October 10, after Horton had
struck him. Myton's plea was
self defense. '
Republican A. P. Leased wirej
The Russian armv which captured
Erzerum , Armenia, is endeavoring
t.i cut off the retreat of the Turks,
I'etrograd dispatches report the cap
ture, after heavy lighting, of the
towns of Mush and Achlat, to the
bouth.
Along the Black sea const Russian
warships are harrassing the retreat
ing Turks. The northern wing of the
Russian army has captured the town
I of Widje and is driving the Turks
with the object of cutting off these
Turkish troops before they can reach
a new line of defense.
The Germans have been operating
vigorously against the British and
French along the Yser canal in Bel
gium to the north of Ypres. From
the British 350 metres of a position
were captured and held, despite' efforts
to recapture it. After a heavy bom
bardment, the Germans attempted to
cross the canal and occupy French I
positions and several groups did suc
ceed in making their way to a first
line trench. The French, however,
immediately drove back.
The British south of Loos in a
I livelv eneaeement succeeded in mak -
ing an advance to the edge of a mine
; crater held bv the Germans.
I The French in Champagne, between
the Meuse and Moselle rivers and to
(the west of the forest of Apremont,
I have bombarded successfully German
positions, while in the Argonne for-
est a mine exploded by the
French
shattered the German works.
That progress is being made by the
Teutonic allies in the direction of Av
lona seemingly is shown by the report
that the Albanians who are fighting
K-ilVi tVAm Vioi-i thtL .,ii-n r.f
east of Avlona.
her"? today
churches.
tu guard Roman Catholic
Thirty-Five Are Stricken
PITTSBURG, Feb. 20. Mystery sur
rojnds the illness at thirty-five per-
sons who were compelled to ask for
, medical attention after attending a
church supper in Carnegie, near here.
Opinions regarding the cause differ.
One physician u no attended some of
the victims said he believed they were
suffering from ptomaine poison, w ftile
another physician said the symptoms
were similar to those of arsenic poi
soning. It was said tonight that all of the
victims would recover.
!WAR SHARK
WITH SARCASTIC NOTE
DEPUTIES GUARDING Tit APPI
0 PL SLEEP ABOARD
Republican A. P. Leased Wire imen theoretically disposessed the Ger
NEWPORT NEWS, Va., Feb. 20 ! man prize crew yesterday. The depu
Two deputy United States marshals! ties had spent last night on deck with
were in distress aboard the prize ship t no where to sleep and nothing to
Appam today when Marshal John G. eat.
Saunders arrived from Vorfoib o.r. I Li.,-ci..i Co,,nriiT.t. infmA
how things had been going since his
FORCE IF NECESSARY
patch adds, "was immediately con
voked for discussion of the new situa
tion." Morea is the ancient Peloponnesus
j the peninsula which forms the south
NAVY LEAGUE TO
ATTRACT MM
FROM ARIZONA
Plans for Sending Strong:
Delegation to Convention
in Washington Are Being
Worked Out by Captain
John C. Cireenway
FOR EXPEDITION
OP LEGISLATION
More Than Thousand Dele
gates . Are Expected to
Take Part in Four-Day
Convention to Be Held at
New Willard Hotel
(Special to The Republican)
WASHINGTON, Feb. 20. rians for
sending a strong delegation from Ari
zona to the eleventh annual convention
of the Navy League of the United
States are being worked out by Capt.
John C. Greenway of Bisbee. The
convention is to be held in Washing
ton March 27 to 30, and it w ill include
n visit to Annapolis in which the dele
gates will be given the opportunity of
witnessing all the activities of the
Naval Academy.
The list of speakers for the conven
tion is now being arranged by the
board of directors of the league. An
effort is to be made to have every sec
tion of the country well represented on
this list. . One of the main objects of
the convention will be to expedite na
tional defense legislation, and to this
end speakers recognized as authorities
in their chosen subjects will be se
lected. More than a thousand delegates nre
expected to take part in the four day
convention, which is to be held at the
New Willard hotel. Telegrams were
sent out recently from the national
headquarters to 32 state chairmen of
the league and several chairmen of
i lm
important sections including Captain
G.eenway as follows:
"Will you begin at once plans tor
sending strongest possible delegation
from your state to Navy League con
vention in Washington. National de
fenrc legislation will then be in bal
ance and your delegation may be able
to turn the scale in favor of prepar
edness "
Responses to this have been numer
ous. In every part of the country
leading members of the Navy League,
which is the oldest of the national de
fense organizations, are arranging to
have the most representative workers
for preparedness attend the meeting.
A tentative list of subjects to be dis
cusred and considered at the conven
tion includes the following:
"What Should a Well Proportioned
Fleet Include?"
"What Should be the Personnel of
the United States Navy?"
"What Should be the Work of the
Real General Staff?"
"Whit Are the Advantages of the
Budget System?"
"Standardization of Fast Motor
Boats for the Third Line of Naval De
fense." "Development of a Large Volunteer
Naval Reserve. Including Patrol Boat
Squadrons and Men."
Another subject that will be given
considerable expert attention will be
that of "Naval Plattsburgs" or naval
reserve training camps, plans for
which are being worked out by the
raval reserve committee of the league.
Most of the prominent yachtsmen
nlong the Atlantic coast and inland
waterways, and many from the Pai'ific
coast will attend the convention.
The whole country, especially sea
(Continued on Page Five.)
' Lieutenant that the Aunam was under
the jurisdiction of the Federal District
court, the order having been issued
yesterday by Judge Waddill in libel
proceedings brought by the English
owners to determine the legal owner
ship of the vessel. The officer re
fused to listen, however, and Col
lector Hamilton was sent for. Finally
on the collector's advice, a compro
mise was reached by which four depu
ties were assigned to the task of
guarding the liner.
Lieutenant .Berg protested against
the proceeding when the deputies first
appeared yesterday. He insists that
the Appam now is a German ship and
that no one has rights aboard her ex-
- ;cept himself.
f
hoc:
