7 mt0W
ASHLAND
"Ashland Grows While Lithla Flows
; City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Lithla Springs
: "Oregon's Famous Spa'
VOL. XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1916
NUMBER 78
Prof. Anthony's
Position
Auto Drivers Must
Be Good or Be Fined
Political Pot
Full of WOsons
The writer was out of the city at
the time Professor Anthony talked at
the Commercial Club about our min
eral waters. From what we get com
monly from those who did attend we
Chief of Police Porter has an
nounced that the Ashland police will
from now on wage a campaign
against speeding and other violations
of the city automobile ordinance-
find that the professor made two ! The chief says that automobilists are
getting aitogetner too careless In
their observance of the law and that
sufficient warnings have been issued
and hereafter .violators will be faced
with, the alternative of a fine or a
brief incarceration in the inside Inn.
Incidentally a stay in duress vile will
be rather unpleasant these cold
mornings since a recent inmate broke
up the electric Btove.
cnier foner reports tnat over
5,000 of the automobile ordinances
have been distributed and practically
every auto driver warned and re-
warned, and that there will be no
more fooling. The most frequent vio
lations are speeding, driving with
strong points In regard to our wa
ters: First, that they were high class
(especially the lithla waters) for me
dicinal baths.
Second, that the lithla water
should not be drunk continuously
and copiously because of its strong
mineral content, which, If drunk co
piously over a long period, would
cause hardening, of the arteries.
Therefore, he said the lithla waters
should be taken under strict super
vision of competent physicians.
We agree with Mr. Anthony that
the lithla waters are very highly
rhareed with minerals and should be
nton .ith and ,,nHr the vi i the mufflers open and turning In the
of a physician.
Now Mr. Anthony is exploiting the
lithla water as a high class table wa
ter. We can not agree with him that
waters dangerous to drink copiously
over long periods of time constitute
good tab'e waters that are to be
shipped to distant parts to be drunk
copiously and continuously without
the advice and direction of compe
tent physicians.
There appears a remarkable Incon
sistency In these two positive state
ments of Professor Anthony's.
The first reports from the Pompa
dour Springs Company, with which organization and evtry man, woman
Professor Anthony has connected and child. It is hospitality,
himself, indicate that their plans Now is the time to begin to plan
called for a big mineral bath sanl- for the summer, and already many
tarlura. At that time Mr. Anthony organizations are talking over pre-
middle of the block.
Park Picnics of
Valieywide Scope
Already the summerlike weather is
drawing dozens of picnic parties to
the park and gives a gentle indication
of the hundreds who will make Ash
land park their Mecca for summer
picnics. Ashland has a great duty to
perform during thu coming picnic
season, a duty which belongs to every
seems to have seen in the lithla water
great bathing possibilities and no vir
tue in them as drinking waters.
Now the plans of the Pompadour
company seem to have changed to a
simple bott'ing proposition and the
exploitation of lithla water as a
drinking and tab'e water, and An
thony appears to have changed in
opinion with the company. He is
now ready to exploit waters dangei
ous to be drunk copiously and con
tinuously, and which should under no
circumstances be taken Inwardly un-
liminary plans for big affairs to be
held In Ashland park. Affairs which
will not be just for Ashland, but for
the entire valley. Ashland park be
longs to the entire valley, and Ash
land neglects her duty until every
resident is made to feel that the beau
ties and attractions of our parks and
canyon are his or her property as
well as ours.
The local organizations should take
the lead in affairs of valieywide
scope. Why can not every lodge,
ti&vixm) &uentu-Secon&"
it I : 1 t. I 4
" , ,v v -vsj? WA
?-$izvt' h,
' i7 v . . h
- A j
V )' ' ti4 U ,
4?
j if A ' i
W t - Ti 2V -
$ W k '
Ll',Tr 4 Fr ,
V, ? r -:r - K '
WV'n.v Ji , S
(0))av Vr- l 1." - a((d)
. -IV Jj
President WIlson'B influence is be
ing felt away out here In southern
Oregon, but Btrangely enough, by the
republicans and not the democrats.
Three Wilsons are already heard
from as candidates and the primary
election Is still three months away.
Considerable confusion is liable to
result from the conflicting Wilsons,
and as a result two of them are an
nouncing their candidacy with nick
names. E. W. Wilson, present dep
uty sheriff, who is a candidate for
the sheriff's position at the coming
election, Is known all over the coun
try as "Curly." Joe Wilson of TaU
ent, whose years of accounting ex
perience has led him to aspire to the
office of county clerk, is known as
"Little Joe." E. M. Wilson of Med
ford, candidate for assessor, has not
Prospects Bright
For Working Men
The "idle season" for the laboring
man was shorter this year than it
has been for ninny years. Practically
all of the local workmen were em
ployed up until almost the last of the
year before inclement weather forced
the closing down of various projects.
Already mills are beginning to oper
ate and crews are being put on vari
ous projects In southern California
and northern California.
A force of 200 men will be put at
work constructing the big beet sugar
factory at Grants Pass. .This build
ing operation will require every clas8
of workmen from the common labor
er to the Bkllled iron and wood
worker.
One hundred men are to be put on
at Copoo, Cal., on the California-Oregon
Power Company's dam and gen-
fl ed his nickname as yet. At any j eratlng plant as soon as weather pcr
rate, trouble is averted In that all of ; nilts.
the three are out after different of-
The lumber mills and logging
flees. Maybe some of our good demo- camps of northern California are pr
crats will be influenced by the name ' paring for a big year and are already
and put down a cross against each putting on big crews. The Weed
and every wllson. The coming year camps will be opened up within a cou
niay see a Wilson administration In- pie of weeks, according to report, anil
stalled in the county under the re-, the Weed logging trains start the-
publican ticket.
"Peg 0' My Heart"
Vining Next Week
first of the month.
The Ash'and Lumber Company
will operate their sawmills on Neil
creek, eight miles from Ashland, this
season and expect to begin work
within a short time.
The niulr Granite Company al
ready has a force of men putting In
. machinery at their quarries near
Steliinwin, and will put on a large
Seats for the farewell engagement
of J. Hartley Manners' most com
pelling and annealine comedv. "Peir
o' My Heart," will open at the Vining f",Hrry forfe of "toneworke.
Theatre box office on Wednesday for 1 The RoKue Rlver Cana' Company
the performance on Monday, Febru- fontemplates putting in several miles
or ancn nna natim mis spring, De
sides completing the Fish Lake work
which was unfinished when storms
Coast Champs Play
Here Tuesday Night
Oregon Agricultural College vars
ity basketball team, said to be the
fastest team in the west, and who
every state society, every church,
less under direction of a competent every Sunday school, every organiza
physiclan, as he put It, as a table ,tlon in the city plan a big picnic and
water to be shipped to the four cor-, invite every like organization In the
ners of the earth to be used without valley to participate and co-operate ; are now tied with the University of
stint and without competent advice, j in arrangements? Let us have a val- J Ca'ifornla for the championship of
We wonder if the mere dollar has ley Elks picnic, a Baptist' church pic-j the Pacific coast college conference,
Influenced the professor in his nic, an Ohio picnic, a Moose picnic, will play trye Ashland high school
opinions. Ja musicians' picnic, a groceryman's team in the high school gymnasium
More than a year ago the writer picnic, a Methodist Sunday school pic-j tomorrow, Tuesday, night. This will
went somewhat Into the ability of nic, a blacksmiths' picnic, a Scandl- be a game which no lover of the best
Profesor Anthony as a mineral wa-navian picnic, a but we could go on there Is In sport can afford to miss,
ter expert. We were unable to find for columns with suggestions. Let It will be absolutely the fastest bas
where he had had the least expert- every Ashland organization and ketball ever wlnessed in Ashland,
ence In the practical piping of min-! group begin to plan Immediately to! Ashland is conceded but a small
cral waters. True, he Is consulting ' take the initiative and Invite all of .chance of defeating the husky collegi-
ary 28.
In "Peg o' My Heart" Mr. Manners
has written one of the sweetest plays
and created one of the most lovable
characters seen on the stage In re
cent years. Peg is the daughter of an
aristocratic English woman who has
married against the wishes of her
family, an Irish socialist. At her
daughter's birth the mother died,
and Peg has been raised by her
whole-hearted father. She Is simple,
natural and Impulsive, and when she
Is transplanted Into the affected snr-
A party of about a dozen employes face living atmosphere of the Chl
of the Dyer Contracting Company, cheater home, there Is trouble of all
who will build the sugar factory at sorts. Peg's rich uncle has repented
Factory Builders
L Come From Utah
engineer for the Saratoga Springs, their clan or calling in the valley to
water commission, but that is a po-intend and help arrange an affair to
litical body, and experience teaches' be attended by every allied member
that all political jobs are not gained in the valley. The benefits accruing
through merit alone. Frequently from getting these big crowds Into
there 1b more politics than merit In
-political jobs and political incum
bents. . Our Investigations of Professor An
thony convinced us beyond doubt that
he was a first class political engineer,
but failed to strengthen our confi
dence in his ability as a mineral wa
ter expert.
If properly handled the Pompadour
springs project may be made a great
asset to Ashland. The Tidings is in
terested in Its development only In
so far as it helps the community.
Ashland lithla waters are splendid
medicine, but should not be put on
the market as table waters to be tak
en without direction. The, lithla is.
In no sense a common drinking wa
ter. It is very strong medicine and
should not go to the people as an
ordinary drinking lotion to be Im
bibed without care.
It is the business of Ashland to see
that the Ashland waters are not mis
represented by Professor Anthony or
any one else.
Ashland from the outside are ma nil
fold. Lets get busy.
Cooperation upon the matter of
dates is necessary, and the secretary
of the Commercial Club has volun
teered to keep a calendar of dates
and offers his assistance In arrang
ing dates so that none will conflict.
The Commercial Club also stands
ready to give assistance in any other
way possible.
ans, who have a wonderful defensive
and offensive system, but the locals
Grants Pass, arrived In that city the and made her his heiress, and, ac
last of the week from Utah. Among cording to his will, she is to bo
the party are several master work- brought to England and educated,
men who have been employed by the The Chlchesters act as her guardian,
Dyer company for years and have as-'and while this affects their sense of
slated in the building of fifteen like pride, the remuneration which they
factories In Utah and other beet- are to receive, at that time, is very
growing sections. ' ! acceptable. She Is ns much out of
About two hundred men will be her element as the ever-existing
employed In building the fatcory, : "square peg in the round hole."
which will be completed by Septem-; The three acts of comedy develop
ber 1. All of the steel and machin- the humor, pathos and tenderness of
ery for the factory will be shipped this situation, finally culminating In
i from the east. The brick, of which Peg's running away to a dance, and
nl.mt -, Hit in i. .!,. n hoi t vttet vo Irm nt lino Vi a n rrfi ir nind.
flr nHmtnB. thomool v. f, f. uuuut a iuiuiuu will ue neeuuu, te- w
fort of their lives and will go ,nt0 nt; lumber and other material will In's elopment with a married man
m . m i be secured in the valley if possible. The harshness and misunderstanding
Postoffice Will
Observe
Holiday
The Ashland postoffice will ob
serve Washington's Birthday Tues
day, February 22. The general de
livery, stamp and parcel .post win
dows will be open from 8 to 9 a. m.
There will be one complete delivery
by city carriers, one collection from
street letter boxes. No letters regis
tered. No money order business
transacted. No rural delivery made.
Phone news items to the Tidings.
Experts Are
Examining Plant
J. G. Kelly, M. Am. M. Soc. C. E-,
consulting engineer, and W. R. Phil
lips, M. Am. Soc. C. E., mechanical
engineer, both of Portland, arrived
here Thursday and are examining the
springs physical plant. for final de
termination. The springs water com
mission was put in touch with these
engineers by State Engineer Lewis
and has engaged them to represent
the commission In the final examina
tion of the Smith-Emery contract.
They are Instructed to go over all the
lines and machinery and report to
the commission just the character of
physical plant Smith, Emery & Co.
have given the city under their contract.
the game not merely with the inten
tion of holding down the visitors but
with the determination to win. While
a win Is Improbable It Is not impossi
ble. Delsman will outweigh any of
the visitors and the rest of the local
team with the exception of Fraley
will not be much outweighed. Local
dopesters figure It out that if Grisez
has a good night and the rest of the
team plays the best of which they
are capable, Ashland stands a show.
It will be "some" game at any rate.
The O. A. C. team played Tour games
In the south and are stopping off on
their way home to Corvallis. -Ashland
will be their only real game on
Canal Company
8
which follows this episode determine
j the little alien to quit the house In
I which she has been so miserably used
and so unhappy. Oliver Morosco Is
put an end to work at the lake last
December. Seventy men are already
at work on the Willow Springs canal.
The probability of the Ashland
Talent irrigation district passing the
vote of the landowners of the district
Is bright, and should it pass will
mean an Immense project which
would employ most of the men and
teams available in the upper valley.
The fruit-spraying season is here
and will be closely followed by, the
other orchard seasons, pruning,
spraying, picking and packing, which
will employ hundreds.
I A good sized crew of mechanics la
now busy on the Oregon Hotel re
modelling In Ashland.
Several property owners are plan
ning homes to be built this year in
Ashland.
Commencement of work on a big
sanitarium before ninny months have
passed seems mcst likely.
! The operation of an Ashland canW
nery Is anticipated by the growers
and Is more than probable.
Grading and paving of the Jack
son county Pacific Highway between
'Central Point and Gold Hill Is going
steadily forward and will employ
more men as the spring comes on.
Road work throughout the county
will result within the next month as
money becomes avalloble, A survey
. m f ana so unnappy. unver morosco is
Starrs kip Cnnal , w the f tiie Cra,er Lnke rod wi:i be made
production as last season with the b-v eovernment engineers In antici-
Boston cast, which Includes Miss I'""0" or an ai'I'ropr.aiion .or pay-
Florence Martin In the title role.
The Rogue River Canal Company
put a big force of men and teams at
work the last of the week on the
Willow Springs extension of the canal , Will ILTPf t III
U IUVVV At
system. Tents were pitched for the
workmen and work will be rushed.
The canal men estimate that the work
will be finished by the first of April.
Seventy men have been put to work
and a force of 100 men will be used
! ing.
Paving will be laid over a portion
of the Siskiyou grade which was al
lowed to settle during tho winter
months after being graded last year.
The beet-growing industry will re
quire much hand labor of the cheaper
class.
On Thursday evening of this week Railroad traffic has held up
high-class boxing batch will be throughout the winter without
Ten-Round Bout
the return trip. The O. A. C. team as soon as the extent of the work staged at the Ashland armory. The gl,,.08 Bump am promises to grow
J. D. Bell of Medtora, one of the
Incorporators pf the Pompadour Min
eral Springs Company, was up Satur
day to attend a meeting of the stockholders.
Current taxes (1915) can now be
paid at the Billings office, 41 East
Main. 78-4t
defeated Stanford twice and won one
and lost one in the University of Cali
fornia games. It is rumored that If
the O. A. C. faculty refuses permis
sion to the team of staying over to
night In Berkeley to play off the tie,
that the team will arrive in Medford
this evening and play the Medford
team a practice game. The Medford
boys are said to be anxious to get a
fifty-point handicap to make the
game interesting. No handicap will
be asked at Ashland.
The game here Tuesday night
starts promptly at 8 o'clock. There
will be no preliminary, it being dis
pensed with so that those who wish
may attend both the game and the
military ball, which starts at 9. Don't
miss this game.
wl.l allow, two cleverest boys In the Rogue Riv- even better as the year progresses.
The Phoenix vditch Is practically er val'ey, Biirnle Burnett of Ashland i Mining throughout southern Call
completed with the exception of a'and Joe Vasbinder, former champion forn in and northern California is exl-
few laterals upon which work Is now of Arizona and present pride of Gold porlcnclng renewed activity, and ex-
progressing.
With the approach of spring plant
ing of bulbs and plants is being
planned. The Civic Improvement
Club plant and bulb exchange Is lo
cated at the home of Mrs. W. H.
Smith on Main street next to the
Buckeye bakeiy. All who need plants
To Take Waters
For Analyses
Henry M. Parks, director of mines
and mineralogy, Oregon Agricultural
College, Is expected here Wednesday
to take the waters from our mineral
springs plant for analyses, in con
nection with the settlement with
Smith, Emery & Co. The springs
water commission has asked the Cor
vallis chemical department to analyze
our waters to ascertain whether they
are being delivered at the central sta
tion containing their mineral cort
tents as at the springs.
Hill, will meet in a ten-round go c,.ptioiial nctivlty is looked for in the
which should give the boxing fans of copper mines.
Ashland a real run for their money, j a big Irrigation project In the Llt
Vasbinder will come up from Gold , te Shasta valley in Siskiyou county
Hill accompanied by a crowd of ad-lwjn employ many men and teams,
mlrers who believe him to be a Work on this has already started.
world beater. Burnett Is seriously
training and Is in better shape than
he has ever been In previous mixes.
He has taken off about twenty
pounds of excess weight and is faster
than a flash. The event will start at
8 p. m. Every objectionable feature
will be eliminated and a clean, fast
exhibition Is assured. Ladles are
especially Invited. It
Auxiliaries Hop.
On last Friday evening a choice
gathering of Auxiliary Club mem
bers, with their gentlemen friends,
or bulbs or have extra slips or wish gathered together on short notice at
to exchange are urged to come to the I. O. O. F. hall and enjoyed an in
club exchange. . formal evening of dancing.
Beyond the many definite con
struction activities the sprli.g and
summer months will bring forth sev
eral projects which are as yet
In an embryotlc state and to the ctly
of Ashland promises building activi
ties which will exceed those of any
sing'e year of Its existence.
The year's activities should pro
vide work at good wages for every
man In the valley. The fine weather
of the past few days has given an
Impetus to every activity, and the few
weeks of the winter "hibernation"
appear to be over.
Joe Hurt of Ashland was a busi
ness visitor to Medford Saturday.
