THE BARHE DAILY- TIME
VOL. XIX-NO. 289.
HAKKK, VKKMOXT, MONDAY, FKIIUUAWV 21, 1910.
PRICE, OXK CENT.
1
FLEEING SOUTH
TURKS GIVE UP
BITLIS ALSO
FOUR MACHINES
IN TWO RAIDS
ON ENGLAND
British Official Report Announces That
Three People Were Killed and One
Wat Injured in Sunday's
Action.
IukKhi, Feb. 2 1. Four German sea-
Russians Have Occupied the 4m",!" ' I'f
i let and southeast roast of Fngland. ae-
Entire Lake Van Region, cording to an official announcement made
. . , , last evening. The total casualties are
ACCOrding tO a JJeSpatCn given as two mnn and one boy killed and
. 1 l t l one marine wounded. Considerable mate-
from Pctrograd and Pub- ri damage don.
... . . m i The official announcement savs:
JlSneU in liOIHt; IV-uay -pour (;erman enplane made a raid
I over east and southeast counts at noon
today.
lhe first raider, two biplanes, an-
OTHER RUSSIAN ARMY Zt tflt! Zt ft
. TQ XTTTAP TT?TT!RT7i"iWri town for five minute and dropped
j.v n" ixu.uv, ,n about five mlmlte, t, r(,B
to a great height and seemingly vanished.
At 1 1 : :i) a. m., the two seaplanes were
again over the town and then' vanished
eastward again.
"Altogether 17 small high explosive
LOCAL OPTION
DENOUNCED
Speakers Declared Nation
Wide Prohibition the
Only Real Remedy
URGED VERMONT
TO JOIN PROCESSION
Great Britain Has Called
Anti-Saloon League Sent
Two Spellbinders in
Barre
I'nder the auspices of the Anti-Saloon
League of America, two able lecturer
supporting the cause of national prohibi-
ualtics. Considerable damage wis tanned , tion spoke to a good-sized audience in
Out Her Youngest Re-lomba were dropped. The were no can
CrUltS. TflOSe WhO KeaCned the outbuildings of a restaurant and to
' 1 .1 11 I U 1- . . - 1
iwo uweiiuig nouses, i wo naval sea
plane went up at 11:0(! a. m., and pur
sued the raider, but without result.
. "Meanwhile two other (ierman sca
nlnne were miilrintr for the Kentish
port Before March 31 coast. The first passed over the Kentish
ivnocK ngnt vessel, dropping nonius in
that vicinity at 11:20 a. m, The last
raider made straight for Walmer.
"Reaching that town at 11:27 a. m.(
fiving at less than 2,."00 feet it dropped
six bomb and turned sharply to the
the Age of 18 Years Last
August They Are to Re-
Before March 31
London, Feb. 21. The Russians have
occupied the entire Lake Van district.
The Turks are retiring southward andlea((t
"Two of the bombs that fell destroyed
roof and broke windows in the neighbor
hood. One of them fell close to a church,
blowing out the window a the congre
gation wag singing 'Te Deum.' A third
bomb fell on a roadway running along
the beach, killing one civilian and injur
ing one marine.
"The total casualties were two men
and one boy killed and one marine
The rapid advance of Russian force wounded.
in Turkish Armenia, following the fall of 1 o of our aeroplanes which went up
I , T . - 1 . . I I. . . . ..
. i i . i , . 1, g ii . iiuiii iri tiuisiicti hip jnmeiA, uiil ay
rTornm la tfvmi nl ma t mlT rnM tuslr nt The ' .
" " - ( M I iia.iindn .W...I.I A,,a.(0tA l.l.r. "
Turk in efforts to re-form their scat
are even evacuating Bitlis, according to
a Petrograd dispatch received in Rome
, and given out here by the Wireless press.
On the other wing, according to the dis
patch, the Russian advance guard has ar
rived within a short distance of Trebi
2ond on the Black sea coast.
parently could not overtake him."
tered forces; From Tiflis, the Russian
headquarters in the Caucasus, come the
report to-day that two Turkish army
corps, on the way to reinforce the gar
rison at Erzerum, turned back when they
' learned that the fortress had fallen. '
Assuming the accuracy of this report,
the Turks in eastern Armenia lost the
prospect of important help in extricating
themselves from what appears to be a
perilous position.
Unofficial accounts of the Russian
movements record th advance both to
the tsouth and to the north, in the former
direction toward Diarbekr and the Bag
dad railway 50 miles beyond, and in the
latter in an effort to cut off the retreat
of the Turkish forces operating along the
Black sea coast.
The Russian Duma, prorogued Sept.
1(1, has been summoned to meet again to
morrow. Berlin reports a raid by German navn!
aeroplanes which dropped a number of
bombs on the British aviation camp at
GERMANY CONTENDS
TREATY PREVENTS
APPAM ACTION
Embassy at Washington Makes Repre
sentations That Present Admiralty
Proceedings Cannot Be Brought
Under Existing Agreement.
Washington, D. C. Feb. 21. Repreaen
tations were made to the state depart
ment to-dav by the German embassy
contending that the provisions of the
Prussian -American treaty bar such ad
miralty proceedings as have been brougl
against the captured British liner Ap
pam, now a German prize in Hampton
Roads, with the objection of .returning
the ship to its British owners.
INJURED LAST SUMMER.
Furnes, near the North sea. Minor sue
cess by the British on the German Fast MrS- Frances E. Brooks Died at Manches
.African border was announced m London.
As the re
a carriage
ter, N. H.
Manchester, K H., Feb. 21.
ult of injuries received in
accident last August at Craftsbury, Vt
Mrs. Frances E. Brooks died yesterday
at her home, 508 Manchester street, at
WAS REPULSED th? affe of 79 y'ar8- KufferinK acute
pain since ner accident, sue aispmyeu a
cheerful disposition even to the very
end. She was a native of Craftsbury,
She ig survived by two sisters, Mrs. Lu
cena Busnell of Dorcester, Mass., and
Mrs. Susan M. Farnum, of Medford,
Mass.; two daughters, Miss M. Adelaide
Brooks of Dummerston, t., and Mrs,
Kimball W. Bates, at whose home ehe
died, and by a granddaughter, Miss Lots
II. Bates.
BRITISH ATTACK
BY HAND GRENADE
Germans Tell of Their Success in De
fending a New Position on the Yser
Canal North of Ypres British Also
Forced to Retreat from Edge
of Mine Crater.
, Berlin, Feb. 21. The repulse of a Brit
ish' hand grenade attack againBt a new
German position on the Yser canal north
of Ypres was announced to-day by the
German war office. The forced with
drawal of the British from the edge of a
mine crater to which they recently ad
vanced was also reported as well as the
repulse of an allied attack on the Ger
man lines along the Lens-Arras road.
WANTS INFORMATION.
Senator Stone to Force President Wilson
to Give It.
Washington, D. C, Feb, 21. Tne Sen
ate to-day adopted a resolution by Chair
man Stone of the foreign relations com
mittee, asking the president to submit
the correspondence between the United
States and Korea when Japan occupied
the hermit kingdom during the Russo
JaDanese war. The administration lead-
ARE CALLED OUT er H waa M want tf I1M t,,e infor-
mation in a reply to Jt-lihu Koot s attack
on President Wilson because no protest
was made against the occupation of Belgium.
BRITISH RECRUITS
OF FIRST CLASS
Those Who Became 18 Years of Age on
Aug. 15 Last, Must Report Before
March 31, According to an
Official Proclamation.
FRANCIS TO BE EMBASSADOR.
Loudon, Feb. 21. A royal proclama
tion has been posted, railing to the colors
recruits of class 1 under the military
service act. They are to report before
March 31.
Class 1 comprises the youngest recruit
available. They are bachelor who had
attained the ape of 18 Aug. 15 last, and
it is believed the majority have not at
tained 19 year of age and thus become
eligible for military wrvice. The present
summons, completes the calling up of
single men.
Ex-Secretary of Interior Invited to Suc
ceed George T. Marye.
St. Louis, Feb. 21. David R. Francis
will notify President Wilson early this
week whether he will accept the post of
embassador to Russia. Mr. Francis
would succeed George T. Marve, whose
resignation has been aecjfted.
LANSING ASKS PROMPT ACTION.
the opera house jesterduy afternoon.
Both are men of national importance find
men who are thoroughly conversant with
the topic which they discussed. Dr. M.
Swadener of Indianapolis ha occupied a
position on a board of specialist called
together by the United States govern
ment to discuss the conservation of na
tional resources, and Hon. M. R. Patter
son wai for two years governor of Ten
nessee.
The meeting was called for 3 o'clock
and was opened with a prayer by Dr.
F. F. Xewell. pastor of the lledding
church. Rev. .J. W. Harnett of the Con
grega tional church had charge of the
meeting and introduced as the first
speaker Dr. Swudener, saying that the
mere fact that both speakers were from
other and widely wparated states proved
conclusively that the country is watch
ing Vermont and is interested in the way
in winch she is going to vote on the state
prohibition law.
Dr. Swadener opened his address with
the quotation "There is a tide in the af
fairs of men which, taken at the flood,
leads on to fortune," srfjing tliat as a
nation we are now on the rising t'de for
prohibition and that every dollar we
spend now and every move we make to
free the country from the liquor traffic
is worth more by manv times than the
same amount of monev or the same ef
fort would have been 10 vears ago. Tli
liquor question is not the same old quos
tion of a few years ago. The men who
are supporting the traffic realize tliat
they are facing defeat. In fact, thev
probably appreciate it better than most
of the people who have it in their power
to hasten this downfall. It is surprfsing
to think that after 60 years of struggle
for this very thing we at last have it in
lestroy this evil and
NORTHWF-ST WIND DRIVES
FORMIDABLE OFFtNSIVE
Ihwton, Feb. il. The coldest
weather of the winter prevailed
throughout the greater part of
New Fngland to-day, with Green
ville, MeM at 20 below, aero, report
ing the loot ollirial temperature.
The highest was six above at Nan
tucket. Other minimum reccrd4 In New
England wero Northileld and Bur
lington, Vt., H below j East port,
Me., 12 In-low; Portland, four be
low; Boston, rero; Block laland,
R. I., five above.
The cold seemed more intense
than the record indicated because
of a stiff northwest wind, which ,
swept down -from Ontario, where
reports showed it to lie 30 below
at Stoneeliffe.
CRONES DESIRE
FOR NOTORIETY
MAY TRAP HIM
Just as Ignatius T. T. Lincoln's Desire
Caused His Capture Crones Is
Becoming Careleii ia Re
lation to Pplice.
New York, Feb. 21. -The police to-day'
expressed confidence that the passion for
notoriety shown by Jean Crones, the Chi-
ago anarchist, who attempted to poison
Archbishop Mundelein and 300 other
guests at a banquet 10 days ago, would
result in his capture in be same manner
as a similar desire for publicity trapped
Ignatius T. T. Lincoln $he Hungarian
spy. t -
Crones' latest exploit was to call up a
local newspaper twice and announce that
he intended to remain in New York until
Thursday. His announcement was coup
led with a threat agauist hi brother,
Paul, on account of an interview which
Paul gave the newspapers.
FIGURING IS
CRITICISED
But the Montpelier & Barre
Light & Power Co. May
Issue $300,000 Bonds
WATER RIGHTS VALUE
BONE OF CONTENTION
BURST WATERPIPE
CAUSED DOWNPOUR
Public Service Commission
Finds Fault with Com
pany's Method
KEEN INTEREST IN
CfllTITII'Q Jl'PPfll ,ffi' '"r prompt replies to the Ami
Ul 1 II O EjCIU nlt, .testing against seizures of
British Premier to Ask for Two New
Vote of Credit Philip Sowden to
Bring Up Peace Terms
Question.
lxndon. Feb. 21. Iremier Asquith's
epeech, to be delivered to-day in the
House of Common on the financial sit
uation. i awaited with keen intereat.
Aqnith mill move to-dr two new votes
t f credit, one for I20.isVOhO to finance
the war until March 31. the end of the
torrent financial year, and the other for
fjm.iiKi.iiiil to start the new financial
j ear in adequate f)non.
On W edne.iay. Itiil.p SniliH. Sorinl
it member fr I'larkbum. wi'l rm. the
jtie-tion of J"" .term.
Wishes British Foreign Office to Reply
Soon on Mail Seizure.
Washington. D. C Feb. 21. Serretarv
Jinsing to-day asked the London foreign
merican
mails
and lyainst the application of the trad
ing with the enemv act against American
firms and interests.
FLOATED OFF REEF.
The British Steamship Comrie Castle is
Saved.
Ixmdi.n, Feb. 21. The Briti-h Meam
ship Comrie Castle, reported ahore last
week on a reef off Mombasa, British F-a-t
Africa, has been floated.
The Slum Worker You lo..k like a
ery w ort h r per on.
The Flattered ne-4h. I'm all riglt,
ma'am. I man? to g- alng Brt rate.
I t u t gt nohndy t uijrt. I'm a
single ..irsn. Cb vrland Plaia IValrt.
our own hands to
do not realise it
The psychological hour is here and if
the piohibition forces will stick together
for five years more the object of their
tight can be gained. The world is wak
ing up to-day to the value of good citi
zens. A few years ago in our own coun
try congresses were called together to
discuss means for the preservation of
torests and water supply, later thev dis
cussed the feeding of hog and cattle for
he best results, and now they have gone
a step lartner and are discussing the citi
zens themselves and ways to make them
more efficient economically and better
men from a mental and moral stand
point. We are coming to realize that
"no country is greater than the people in
it. We are finding out that the citizea is
the first thing of importance in the coun
try to-day and that is the thing that is
doing away with the liquor traffic.
I he biggest question in America to
day as well as in the world is the ques
tion of temperance. Russia has shown
by her action in forbidding the use -of
liquor in her army that she regards a to
tal abstainer as the only first class sol
dier. If it takes a total abstainer to be
a first class soldier is it not reasonable
to say that a man must also abstain in
order to reach the highest stage of effi
ciency in any occupation? Some of the
greatest firms in the country to-day are
beginning to realize the state of affairs
and are getting rid of all of their em
ployes whom they find are drinking or
pending their time in saloons.
The opponents of prohibition may say
that it interferes with personal liberty
to have a state or national prohibition
law. How about our personal liberty
now! tan you burn vour own house or
beat your own wife without tindin?
ourself in jail the next morning for it?
So We must live for society and not
for selfish -individualism. Local option
men will say that we need the revenue
from the liquor traffic. "We have never
takeu a dollar for revenue from the liq
uor traffic that did not cost us two dol
lars in net results."
If any man is in doubt how to vote in
order to put down the sale of liquor let
im "hnrt out the ide on which the liq
uor people stand anil then get on the
other side." The constitutionality of the
state prohibition law has been questioned
hut supreme court verdict uphold it.
The constitution says that when a suffi
cient numlier of petitioners present an
amendment to the constitution and when
it shall have been voted on favorably by
two-thirds of the House and Senate that
it shall be submitted to the states for
ratification. Vt e shall have the two
thirds vote in Congress soon and then it
only remains to secure the consent of M
of the state to carry it. Nineteen of the
states are prohibition now. I-t Vermont
be the 20th.
"The most colossal fraud of the past
100 year in America is the liquor traf
fic" We hve put a stop to the manu
facture and sale of impure food and im
posed riirorou restriction on the care of
milk. Why not top the sale of liquor!
The thing most needed in the prohibi
tionist cause 1 backbone. We cannot I
turn these tiling oer to the lord and
let Him run them. Liquor attack every-
tning that the church holds etrred and
everjthinir tluit the state h-l is funda
ments!. If we can drive liquor or.t and
PEN FIELD PROMISED
A PROMPT REPLY
Austria Notified American Ambassador
That Report of Attack on Petrolite
Would Be Given Soon.
Washington, I). C, Felt. 21. Ambassa
lor Penfield at Vienna to-day cabled he
had presented the American note askin
an investigation and explanation of th
attack on the America tank steamer Pet
irolite near Alexandria several weeks ago
and had been promised a prompt reply
It was said at the state departmeii
that the reply will probably give basis
for further negotiations.
THREE FIRES IN NE BLOCK
TV .t
Bellows
Contents
Falls Building and
Damaged- $2,500.
Bellows Falls, Feb. 21. The fire de
partment was called three times between
2:20 and 5 o'clock yesterday morning to
the building on Westminster street
owi ed bv Dennis Scurletia.
The first alarm was for a Small blaze
in a store occupied bv rred t . t ookson
a tailor, and H. P. Sweet, agent for
sewing machine. Ten minutes after the
department had left the place a still
alarm recalled the apparatus to tlie
building. I'pon their return the firemen
found a stiff blaze in progress. The fire
completely 'gutted the tailor shop. The
stock and fixtures in tho millinery store
of Miss Nona K. Hennessey were praeti
cally destroyed bv fire and water. The
Olympian pool parlor was gutted and
two pool tables destroyed. Ooodell &
(ioodell, who conducted a fancywork
tore and undertaking rooms, had a
small smoke damage.
The third alarm was a still one and
was for a fire in a partition on the sec
ond floor, which is occupied as lodging
rooms by Greeks., riremen claim this
fire, was caused bv an overheated stove.
The lodgers deny this. The building is
one of the oldest in the business section
of the village. The damage from the
three fires amounted to about $l,.r00.
SAW TRAIN TOO LATE.
John Brown of Brighton, Mass., Killed
at Milton, N. H.
Milton. X. II.. Feb. 21. While crossing I
the Boston and Maine railroad tracks,!
on his way to dinner from his work at
ice harvesting at Milton Three ponds yes.
terday. John Urown of Brighton, Mass.,
an employe of the Potter Ice company of
Boston, was struck by an engine running
as an extra from Sanbornville to Ports
mouth repair shop, about 50 feet south
of the crossing near the Potter ice house,
one mile above Milton village, and in
stantly killed.
On account of a curve, Mr. Brown did
not notice the approaching engine, until
too late, and the engineer did not have
time to stop it. A blow in the side of
the head caused instant death, and the
victim was thrown 30 feet. The man's
head and side were badly crushed.
Doctors Buckley and Hart of Milton
were hastily summoned, but their serv
ice were not needed. The remains were
viewed by Medical Referee Walter .1.
Bolerts of Rochester, who attributed ac
cident a the cause of desth, and turned
the body over to an undertaker. Mr.
Brown bad been employed in the ice
business for 41 years, the greater part of
the time for Potter Brother. He leave
a wife and two son and was 6.1 years of
age.
Authority to issue $:)00,0oo liond lias
been granted by the Vermont public serv
ice commission to the Montpelier A Barre
Lijfht Si Power company, with the ex
press purpose of acquiring the Water
bury Light 4 Power company, a hearing
on the petition having been held at
Miwtpelier one week ago to-day. Of this
amount $105,000 is to be spent for the
stock of the Waterbury concern and
$105,000 to bo exchanged for the $105,000
first mortgage five per cent, bond of the
same eompauy. Another hearing will be
held to authorize the aale of the Water
bury concern to the other..
The Montpelier 4. Barre company pro
poses to operate the Waterbury plant as
a part of its own plant and will shortly
make application for the consolidation.
The commission found at the hearing
that on (Vt. 1. 1014. the Montpelier &
Barre Light & Power company "mude a
mortgage of all its properties, rights.
privileges and franchises then owned and
thereafter acquired to the American
Trust company of Boston, Mass., to se
cure the future issue of first refunding
mortgage five per cent. 30-year convert!
ble gold bonds to an amount not exceed
ing ?-i.."i0O,0O0"; also that under the pro
visions of the mortgage io0,lKH par val
ue of these bonds had been istued, leaving
$2.')0,HK) unissued. The proposed issue
of $.100,1)0 would leave $1,050,000 nnis
sued bonds of the Montpelier & Barre
company.
In giving authorization for the issue
of $.100,000 bonds, the public service com
mission took occasion to criticise th
company's method of determining the
value of the water right of the Water
bury Light Power company, as based
on the annual saving ot water-power
production of the company's two plants
over the next best method of obtaining
that power. ..The company figured the
saving would, at five per cent, interest
amount to a capitalization of $105,000.
In this connection, the commission ex
presses itself as follows: "The state in
troduoed no evidence tending to dispute
the accuracy of the computations above
set forth, nor did it introduce evidence
which in an way controverted or criti
cised the method used in arriving at this
valuation of $105,000. The commission
however, entirely disapproves of this
method of determining the value of these
water rights, because in our opinion it
creates a value which may be largely in
excess of the actual value of the rights
and because this method, if applied to
rates, would entirely deprive the eonsum
er of any of the benefit to which he i;
entitled by reason of having these nat
ural resources at hand. In other words.
this method puts a consumer of current
generated on coal op an evener basis as
to rates with a consumer using current
from a hydro-electric plant, without re
gard to cost of production by the latter
method. Hy this we do not mean that
the producer should be deprived of ail
benefit accruing bv reason of low cost
of production of electricity by water
power, but we do mean that this benefit
should inure to both the producer and the
consumer in a question involving tne nx-
ing of rates."
The commission goes on to say that
no evidence was introduced by the peti
loner or the state from which we are
able to determine precisely what would
be a fair valuation of these water rights
but from what we are able to determine
from the rase we must conclude that
$300,000 is not an excessive valuation on
all the properties, rights and franchises
nvolved, and as this is the capitalization
limit asked for by the petition, we are
of the opinion that the petition must be
granted."' -
To Remove Wire Danger.
An order has been made by the com
mission for the Burlington Traction Co.
to separate the line of poles of its high-
Ltension line from Burlington to Ferris-
ri - j:.... ,n
Tenant of Blanchard Block Dajnaged by
Water Last, Night; B. W. Hooker &
Co. Being the Heaviest Losers.
Damage that may approach $.',500 and
KMtibly a larger sum uas caused in the
liliinchard block over night by the burst
ing of a water pipe in the attic. The
heaviest losers are B. W. Hooker & Co.,
(ranite lodge, No. ."5, F. & A. M., St.
Aldemar coinuuiiulery, Vincitia lodge.
Knights of Pythias, and Harmon Kcview
of the Macc.ibees. Just how lung the
water had been running when attaches
at the store of Hooker 4 Co. discovered
the break this morning cannot be told,
but it is surmised that water began its
downward course from the attic last
evening. A small-sized pond adjacent
to Knterprise alley in the rear of the
block waa frozen to a depth of six inches
and there was ice on the first floor of
the furniture store.
On the floor leased by the furniture
dealers many hundred dollars' worth of
lino furniture was practically ruined. On
the fourth floor water seeped through
the ceiling into the MaMinic lodge room,
damaged furniture and carpets, and
a used the plaster to leave the walls. In
the room adjacent, lockers used by the
Knights of St. Aldemar for their uni
forms were visited by the water and the
contents damaged. Working its way
groundward, the water dripped through
the ceilings of the third tory, wrought
havoc with fixtures owned by the Macca
bees and Pythians and visited the apart-1
ment leased by the Vincitia club, al
though the loss in the Vincitia club was
small.
First and second-story repositories for
DOUBLE WORRY
SUICIDE CAUSE
Richard Ciardi Had Been 111
and Troubled over
Business Affair
HE WAS MANACR OF
GRANITE r ST0RE
He Took P r?j Poison Potion
WKat a Friend's
'f House
furniture in rooms connected with Hook
er A Co.'g establishment were thoroughly
drenched. Wall paper in unnumbered
rolls was rendered useless, elalioratclv
Billiard Ciardi, one of the best known
men in the Italian colony of Barre Hint
for several years closely identified with
mercantile interest on Granite street,
died at the home of Charles Abbiati of
fK) Circle street Saturday afternoon at 4
o'clock. Circumstances surrounding the)
case point quite plainly to suicide by
poisoning and an autopsy conducted in,
the Ferry Sc Xoonan undertaking estab
lishment on Depot square by Dr. B. II.
Stone of Burlington, state- pathologist,
and Dr. C. F. 'Whitney Sunday afternoon
is expected to determine the exact nature
of the potion which the man took to end
his life.
An unsigned letter in Mr. Ciardi'
landwriting, which was found on Jiw
upholstered chairs were soaked and other person, ascribes the deed to iiniaircd
furniture brought to a high state of I health and adverse business conditions.
lohshed were damaged beyond repair it is , Several weeks ago Mr. Ciardi submitted
1
thought.
Three times within recent, vears the
block has been visited bv water. Once
to a surgical operation "at his home, 7
(iranite street. Very recently be had
Iteen able to be about the house and Sat-
it was claimed that an inundation wasurday forenoon he told members of the.
due to defective sewage conveyances, but (family thst he was going to the home of
on one other occasion the cause of a flood
was traced to the attic. It was thought
that the water nines in the attic, which
center about a storage reservoir under
the roof, were well protected, but through
some channel that has not been disclosed,
the cold crept in last night and caused a
freeze-up. A. C. Blanchard of Montpelier
one of the principals in the Blanchard
Block to., was called to the city early
to-day. After examining the lasses he is
said to have intimated that a careful in
vestigatiim would be made.
Pythians. Masons and the Vincitia club
were on the point of renewing leases with
the company for the use of their several
suites on the third and fourth floors,
OPPOSE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
burg to a minimum distance of 30 feet
from the line of poles of the Western
Union Telegraph company, parallel there
to on the west side of the railroad
track, or, as an alternative, cease from
transmitting high-tension current over
said 18 sections after a certain date until
such separation is made.
Montpelier Officials Will Not Bar Delin
quent Taxpayers on State Issues.
Sixty-six names were added to the
Montpelier checklists Saturday evening
at a meeting of tlie board of civil au
thority held in the city council chamber
at the Montpelier city hall, the board
putting in a busy session which extended
over two hours. .Notwithstanding the
decision handed down by the attorney
general. Herbert (1. Barber, the board,
advised by two lawyers, Harry C. Shurt-
leff and State Librarian George U ing,
voted to have two distinct checklists to
Ik1 luted March 7 on town meet in day,
one to include the names of delinquent
taxpayers and persons who have removed
to the city from other towns and cities
within the state since the assessment
wa made. The lsard determined to
take that action after Messrs. Wing and
Shurtleff had pointed out that delirt-
uents and those who have moved in
have a constitutional right, tliat of a
freeman, to vote upon the statewide
questions, the Perry prohibition bill and
the primary bill.
Only two members of the board were
pposed to the action taken and they
failed to vote when the question was put
by Mayor Boutwell, who presided. Law
yers in Montpelier seem practically
united ilk the belief that Attorney (Icn
eral Barber's interpretation of the law
makes the statute as drafted unconsti
tutional. Of -the Bfl who appeared before the
board, . nearly half were persons who
have received their naturalization papers
recently, although some have resided in
Montpelier for 10 and even 20 years.
The next meeting of the board will be
held to-morrow evening, with a second?
session Nuurdav. Jno other meetings
will be held, the last to be Thursday
evening, March 'I.
A CONTEST IN BARRE TOWN.
St.
GRIEF HASTENED DEATH
Jobnsbury Woman's Daughter Dis
appeared Three Weeks Ago.
WRECK AT BETHEL
(Continue! on e:hth page)
Because One Freight Train Was Not Pro
tected By Flagman.
IVthel, Feb. 21.- F.xtra freight trains
drawn bv rngin- 414 and 777 .on the
Central Vermont railroad collided here
this morning, the collision being due to
the failure of the crew of 414 to protect
their train bv a fl"gmn. Knfine 777
ploughed into the rear end of the other.
wtting fire to the cahe of the utter
and caiifinc the detructio of the ca
U a well the nct ear sbcd. The
Utter rar ws lo.J.-. mtn coffer on
siened to r-rn nr,t. o pn-s-fi-rr
trsins were delayed.
C. M. Scribner Files Papers For Overseer
v of the Poor.
Only one contest developed in the Barre
Town citizens' caucus which was held in
F-ast Barre opera house Saturday even
ing, nominations being made by acclama
tion with one exception. T. W. Ronrk, the
present overseer of the poor, defeated
C. M. Scribner of South Barre by a vote
of 55 to 35. Mr. Scribner has filed nomi
nation papers and will ijo before the
St. Johnsbiiry, Feb. 21. Mr. Reuben j voters March 7. Rigorous weather con
Morrion. aged 4!, died at her home here 1 ditions kept the attendant-)' down. A.
yesterday after a year's illness. Although jC. Dickey acted as chairman and W. H.
I Mr.'- Morrison had heen in poor health Miles served as clerk,
for a long time. tJie disappearance of her ) The list of nominee i as follow:
16-year-old daughter, tieraldine, about 1 Moderator. A. C. Dickey ; town clerk and
six weeks ago had preyed on her mind treasurer. W. H. Mile: selectman for
and this undoubtedly caused ber complete ' three years, F. I Sargent; lister for
breakdown. Beides her huln4. Mr.! three Vear. Thomas Healy. jr.; nad
Morrison lees four ilaugiiters. Catherine, 'commissioner. Alfred I- Bclhille; over
fieraldine. Maud and Iola, and one son, i seer of the onr. T. W. Btwrk; auditor,
Samuel Morrison. I A. C. Dickey. F. U Tucker and K. S".
Mis tleraldine Morrison, a student in! Hidden; scbtd director. F. R. Northrop,
the public schools here, disappeared from j
her home six week ago and all effort)
to trace her have been in vain. It is j
21 BELOW AT ST. ALB INS
known that she went Boston, as detec- ZT .
live there found a suiUase iweni?ini- am 1 1 w "."
to her in a store.
II Below.
St. Aln. Feb. 21. It a 1 dciiree
But all trace ef her
ended there. According to her family.
IWa mmu IM LftoVI rMAOflk in 1. .
,n l...me and they are hopeful that .!. ! " hrTP ,h" mo"' C- II
mar in me maaoer learn of h-r mi-tV i k thermometer in t!w rer of the
rt' dealh aa-1 return to M. .lot n'lmry. t,tnm-rt ttn.Mir.g on Kif .iin trel
hre a m W-nx aait her. r t te. l- l lo rrt. tl - .!!. t r- -
Mr. M-mon" funeral ,; be h J 1 at 01. 1 t tbt l- ir Junt.y h- i..t tour
I tr late lc cne here Tue4v sftrrtc a.
his long time friend. Mr. Abbiati, for a
visit. He reached the Abbiati home on
upper Circle street around 10 o'clock and
conferred with Mr. Abbiati regarding
business matters. It was during tho
visit that he was taken ill.
During the forenoon and afternoon two
physicians were summoned. To neither
Dr. P. S. Duffy ncnj. W. K. La.eU. who
were called, did thcVnan indicate tse
cause of his illness, fie did not suffer
acutely, but his unexpected death in the
latter half of the afternoon led meniler
of the Abbiati family to suspect that
something of mysterious nature had oc
curred. Mrs. Ciardi was immediately no
tified and police headquarters was ad
vised of the man's death. Crand Juror
William Wishart and Chief Sinclair wera
summoned along with Health Officer
Charles Olliver, who was called in th
absence of Dr.- J. W. Stewart, secretary
of the local board of health, who is de
tained at home by illness." The letter,
fount! in Mr. Ciardi's coat pocket, dissi
pated all doubt as to the manner of his
demise.
More than a page of foolscap was used
by the dead man in his valedictory mes
sage, written with pen and ink, it gave
in detail some of the reasons why ho
wished to end his life. Apparently it
had been penned before ha, arrived at the
Abbiati home, for it was written on the
business stationery of the Granite City
I General store. Addressing his wife, he
asked forgiveness for the deed and to his
children he commended the care of Mrs.
Ciardi, beseeching his son to slum tobac
co and intoxicants and to seek employ
ment at once. A portion of the letter
was concerned with the affairs of the
Granite City store and he asked that
F. G. Howland lie consulted in discharg
ing outstanding obligations so far as pos
sible. Regarding a. certain Mr. O'Hanley
he spoke in praise of his friendliness and
asked that his monetary loss be mini
mized as much as possible. Mr. Ciardi's
farewell message also contained this
statement: "I have been wronged more
by the workingmen than by the capital
ists, but in spite of it all I ftill have
faith in the workingman." Latterlv h
speaks of futile attempts to organize an
adequate bookkeeping system for the
concern, remarking that ill health came
to hinder his third attempt to put the
affairs of the store on a working biiBis.
Physicians who examined the body
were unable to form a conclusive theory
as to the real nature of tlie poison taken,
by the man. Neither his lips nor hi
tongue had been burned by acid. Grand
Juror Wishart communicated with
State's Attorney F. E. Gleason, who in
turn consulted with Attorney General
Herbert (1. Barber of Brattleboro. The.
three officials agreed that an autopsy
should be held and at 7 o'clock the fam
ily was given permission to remove the
remains t the Perry 4 N'oonnn under
taking establishment, there to await the
arrival of Dr. Stone and his assistant.
A development in the case came late
this forenoon when Bnino Ciardi, son of
the deceased, who is employed in the
(iranite City store, recalling that his fa
ther, before his departure Saturday
morning, mentioned a prospective trip to
the company's lardhouse on Batchelder
street, went to the little building. There
he found hat is lielieved to be tangible
! evidence that his faSlicr parttxik of pois
on while in the lardliouse and before go
ing to the Abbiati home. On a table in
the building was a glass tumbler, which
the young man recognized as the prop
erty of Mis Mary McCarthy, a book
keeper at the store. Traces of a white
powder were found in abundance on the
inside of the glass and apparently an at
tempt hail been made to eliminate all
signs of the poison, for bits of scorched
psper around the glass on tlie table indi
cated that someone hail tried to burn the
powder.
Young Cisrdi immediately reported hl
discovery to the police and (.rand Juror
Wisl.ait. The Utter ttfc-k charge of thf
gl and contents and will probably
turn them over to the state Isliorstorv
for analysis. The authorities re in
clined to the belief that Ciardi nui't ha
mixed a obition f water and noisnnoiit
powilcr. :thoth tlie rature of the pow
i. r is d.:f,i-u't to d ternnii.- w ithout an
The otitis,- man's iivterv brr out
(rorit;nul on e jj'- t' r'S"
