ffTL Ifl fflwjut (111 r
ifi s(c sj jjt s 5t )(( sjs jf( fc )(t fc sfs st
FULL LEASE!)
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
-..-.
WIRE DISPATCHES
4 ;
',
('.2
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1916
PRTPF TWt fT?WT3 0N TRAINS AND NEWS
r tUKjtd 1 Vf U IiJuIN lO STANDS FTVB TENTS
n
RUSSIANS IN ARMENIA
SPLIT TURKISH ARMY
Rapid Drive Separates Three Corps From Mrs Turkish
. Army-Floundering In the Snow and Lackii 'ood and
Munitions Retreat Becomes Disorderly- c lith Asks
' New War Credit of $2,000,000,000- tal Debt
: $8,640,000,000
Petrograd, Feb. 21. The Turkish front l.as been cut
in two places and three corps have been separated by the
rapid Russian drive westward following the Erzerum
victory.
One corps, forming the left wing, is retiring on Tre
bizond. The eleventh corps, trying to reach Erzingan, is
harassed and floundering in the snows west of Erzerum.
The third corps, forming the right wing, has been
isolated from the amy to the north, and may be com
pletely cut off. It lacks food and munitions and is in
disorderly retreat.
The Russia left wing has captured Pasur Akchesin,
southwest of Mush. The vanguard of the Russian forces
advancing on Trebizond is now less than 65 miles east of
that port, while another Slav force is coming up from the
southeast.
London. Fell. 21. With Germany's
proclamation of her intention to attack
sinned merchantmen without warning
operative only nine days hence, the
newspapers today demanded prompt
steps be taken to commit tins new cam
paign of " fright f nlness. "
Simultaneously they issued a warning
that another air raid may follow th it
of yesterday against the east and south
east toasts when three persons were
hilled anil one wounded.
1'aris reports of an attempted at
tack by a raider against the French
liner Chicago, increased. the belief here
that trie Germans are planning spectac
ular demonstrations on the sea and in
the air.
I'lnglnnd is inclined to doubt Ameri
ca a reports that Germany may postpone
operations of her decree, for German
newspaper oommeuts have convinced
the authorities that the Teutons are
about to embark on a new campaign
designed to strike terror to enemies and
neutrals alike.
In this connection, the recent state
ments credited to Die Nuekenft, Max-
i in iln n Harden 's piper, are regarded as
especially significant. He was credited
wiht suggesting that Germany will soon
pay no attention to neutrals.
the German raider that captured the
African liner Appnm is expected to co
operate with sulmurines in attacked
armed ships, until such time as the al
lied warships end her career. The raid
er involved in the Chicago incident may
have been the same that captured the
Appaiii. The Chicago, only a 16 knot
vessel, escaped her near the Hay of Pia
cay, indicati'ig that the raider is a com
paratively slow ship which would be
aa easy prey for liritish cruisers.
Shortly before the stranger ordered
the Chicago to heave to on Thursday
night, the French ship was warned by
wireless that .1 raider was in the vicin
ity. German Aircraft Busy.
lli'rlia, by wireless to Sayville, I.. I.,
l'cb. .21, German aeroplanes in yester
day's raid against Kngland bombarded
two liritish tank steamers, the admiral
ty iiinoii.iced today.
The main railway station and docks
at Lowestoft were hit repeatedly.
Asks For Two Billions.
London, Feb. 21. 1'remier Asipiith
today introduced in t:io house of com
mons a request for a new war credit
tor 420,000,000 pounds slightly more
than $2,000,000,000. This is the' largest
sum thus far sought.
M
Abs Elartia $
. -
When a I
falls in love th' bnr-
lMr gits his. Truth is i-trauiier than
iu'tnin, but not near go plcutuuL . I
This makes England's total w.ir ex
penditures about 8,1140,000,11110.
According to unofficial estimates the
belligerents have spent about $40,000,-
: 000.000 since the beginning-'ot the war.
It is believed Germnnv has spent
I S.300,000,000 and France' $ 7,500,000,
(100. Russia and Austria have discour
aged estimnting expenditures, so their
I amounts are doubtful.
Bombarded Two Tan'iiers.
Herliu. bv wireless to Snyville, T.,. I
j Feb. "1. German aeroplanes in yester-
day's raid against Kugland bombarded
itwo liritish tank steamers, the admiral
' ty announced today.
Tho main railway station and docks
at Lowestoft were hit repeatedlv.
I "Naval aeroplanes at noon Sunday
'attacked the liritish coast,'' said the
official statement. "Bombs were iiurl
1 ed successfully on factories near the
j railroad docks and one fell on the gas
: works at Lowestoft. The main station
and docks were hit several times. A
gasometer broke down under the effect
I of the bombs. Two tank steamers were
i bombarded.
I "Despite fire and pursuit, all en
I gaged returned safely."
Raided Three at Once.
Berlin, Feb. 21 German airmen raid
ed F.ngiund, Belgium and France simul
taneously Sunday.
While they were engaged against
Lowestoft and Walmer in England,
other aviators were raiding Furnes and
Poperinghe, in Belgium and Amiens and
Luneville in France, it was officially
announced today.
All the aircraft and men returned un
harmed. Concerning western front operations,
the war office said the British had un
successfully attacked against the Ger
mans occupying ground recently guined
near the Y'pres canal and southward
along the Loos high road. On the east
front. Russian attacks near Dvinsk
failed.
Turks Getting Away.
Rome, Feb. 21. The Turks are evacu
ating liitlh, in Armenia, southwest of
Lake Van, according to I'etrograd ad
vices today.
The Russians followed up their con
quest of Mush and Achlat and occupied
j all the territory around Lake Van.
Tood Troubles in Germany.
Berlin, by wireless to Sayville, I,. I.,
Feb. 21. Pence and food demonstra
tions have occurred in Berlin and other
German cities, Dr. Lewald, an official
j of the interior department admitted to
! day, though he termed them as of minor
j importance. He denied that police had
i killed anyone, however, or that it had
been necessary to call soldiers.
In Chemnitz there were riots because
of the high price of butter, but the
participants were dispersed by a stream
from a fire hose.
Three pence demonstrations have oc
curred in Berlin, Lewald said. Police
dispersed the first one and arrested six
persons. In breaking up the second one,
attended by 1,000 persons, two of the
crowd were slightly injured. Small
groniw naraded on Friedrichstrasse in
the third.
These facts were given out by the
semi-official news bureau today as the
substance of an interview with Lewald.
GOVERNOR JOHNSON CALLS
IT "SHADOW FIGHTING"
Sacramento, Cal., Fob. 21. Charac
terizing the proceedings of the repub
lican state central committee Saturday
as "shadow fighting," Governor John
son today issued a statement denying
that Meyer Lissner, progressive state
chairman, had made nay compromise
proposition to the republicans. The gov
ernor announced that he would "go
direct to the people" if he should ever
be a candidate for office,
THE O. C. LAND GRANT
Washington, Feb. 21. Settle-
ment of the Oregon-California
land grant question along the
lines of the Chahberlain bill was
endorsed before the house public
land committee today by Con-
stantin K. .Smith, the govern-
merit's special counsel in for-
feiture suits against the rail-
roads. He said there is no limi-
tation on the power of congress
to take back the land, paying
the railroad $2.50 an acre, and
then disposing of it as may be
desired. sj:
Engineer Unable To See Flagman-Five
Dead, Three
Hurt Seriously
.Spokane, Wash., Feb. 21. Officials
today had practically determined that
a dense fog was responsible for the col
lision at South Cheney early Sundny
nioriiiug, when five men were killed aud
three sailors injured.
The bodies of the dead were claimed
by relatives ami taken awav today.
They are: '
Professor Elton Fulmery stute chem
ist, Pullman, Wash.; I. J. Minnick,
deputy oil inspector, Spokane; Lee N.
Corny, Northern Pacific traveling pas
senger agent, Spokane; B. L. BerKev,
Portland, and J. J. White, Spokane. The
injured who are still in Spokane hos
pitals are St. J. Spear, Pomerov, Wash.;
Dr. John Matthews, Everett, Wash., and
J. A. Payant, of Los Angeles.
Superintendent Deforce, of the
Northern Pacific division, learned on
investigation that the engineer of the
eastbound North Coast Limited, was un
able to see the flagman sent out by
the eastbound Burlington train when it
stopped at South Cheney. In the dense
fog the train dashed pust him. A tor
pedo Was Cxnlnileil invt l. i:.
. , : - .' uv.vju me lim
ited crashed into the standing train, but
ui in Buincient tune tor the engineer
to stop. i
In the pocket of 1'rofessor Fulmer
was found a traveling insurance card
worth 25,f)00 in case of death on the
trip. He hn1 niinihnvi ; ..i ..
hours before he met death.
INNES AND IE MUST
FACE H CHARGES
Cleared of Responsibility for
Death of Girls But Are
Rearrested
Portland, Or., Feb. 21. Cleared of
responsibility for the mysterious dis
appearance of Mrs. Eloise Nelms Den
nis, and her sister, Beatrice Nelms,
ictor E. Innes and his wife must go
to Atlanta, Ga., and face a federal
charge of using the mails to defraud.
A year ago Innes was arrested on a
ranch near Eugene, Oregon. Taken to
San Antonio, Texas, he denied respon
sibility for the disappearance of the
Xelins sister. After hearing a maze of
contradictory evidence a grand jury re
turned a not true bill on the 'murder
charge.
Innes was once I'nited States district
attorney at Reno, Nevada. There he
met Mrs. Dennis and was her nttornev
in a divorce suit. Later he invested
monev for her. nml n mil.l tr, ,..
hnd much of her money in his posses
sion at times.
In May, 1914, Innes and his wife
rented a cottage in San Antonio for a
short time. Mrs. Definis arrived in the
city shortly afterward. She was ac
companied by her sister, Beatrice, who
had openly expressed her suspicions of
Innes' efforts to induce her to invest
in Mexican securities.
Tho sisters arrived in San Antonio
and then disappeared. Not a traco was
ever found of them. An empty per
fume bottlo of the kind Mrs. Dennis
used, and bearing an Atlanta label,
was found in the back yard of the
cottage Innes had occupied. Innes
was shown to have bought a large
quantity of acid at a nearby drug
store. But there was no "corpus
delecti" nothing to show that the
sisters had been killed.
Through the efforts of Marshall
Xeluis, brother of the missing women,
Innes was rearrested on a federal
charge of using the tnatls to defraud
immediately after the grand jury
cleared him of the murder charge. Let
ters which he wrote to Mrs. Dennis
were used, it is said, to show that he
plotted to secure her money.
CHURCH 13 BURNED
Quebec, Feb. 21. The church at
Heauport across the St. Charles three
miles from here, took fire today and
is believed to be doomed.
First reports reaching here said the
famous cathedral at St. Anne De Beau
pre, 13 miles further away, was afire.
Thousands of pilgrims traverse Beau
port annually en route to the shrine of
St. Anne De Beaupre,
SEPARATE PEACE
SAID TO GE AIM OF
RUSS1AAND JAPAN
Eastern Diplomats Think Both
Will Make Terras With
Germany
JAP PRESS COMMENTS"
BITTER AGAINST BRITISH
England Sore Over Loss of
Influence in China Feared
Chinese Revolt
San Francisco, Feb. 21. That Russia
and Japan apparently want separate
peace and intend to join with Germany
after the war to divide a generous slice
of Chinese territory was the roper
Newell Martin, an international lawyer,
of New York, and T. G. McDonnell,
Manila journalist, brought here on the
Japanese liner Chiyo Maru today.
They said Far Eastern diplomats
think Russia and Japaa are preparing
to arrange a separate peace with Ger
many, while England and Japan are re
ported to be in acute disagreement over
Jnpan's movements in China. Jupnnese
and European agents are thought to b
fostering the present Chinese revolu
tion in order to give Russia, Germany
and Japan an excuse for interference
after the war, the travelers said.
Reports of England's anger over the
gradual loss of control iu the Chinese
situation are reflected, they say, in bit
ter Japanese press comments against
the English attitude.
Martin's father.''. A. T. Martin, has
been ninny years in China and is in
close touch with government officinls.
German Prisoners Moved.
San Francisco. Feb. 21. Fifteen thou
sand interned German prisoners who
have been interned in China since the
opening of the war have within the past
week be--n smuggled out of that coun
try into Australia, according to officers
of the .Tnpnnese liner Chiyo Maru.
The reason for this wholesale seizure
of prisoners has been clouded in mvs
terv. They were removed on a British
cruiser.
Tt was rumored in China that idols to
escane had been discovered and that a
revolt nqainst the English in that coun
try nieht fellow. Where they are to be
placed in Australia is not known.
TO INVESTIGATE AVIATORS
Washington, Feb. 21 The senate mil
itary committee this afternoon ordered
an investigation of army aviation serv
ice following Senator Kobiirson's
charges that after seven years, not a
single squadron in able to fly.
Three representatives and two sen'
ators were named to conduct the in
vestigation, and $10,000 was sought for
it.
TO ENDHER LIFE
Fatal Dose Folllows Quarrel
With Her Sweetheart
Condition Is Serious
Miss Dagma Jones lies in a serious
condition at the Willamette Sanitarium
today as the result of four ounces of
acuto poison which she took yesterday
afternoon with suicidal intent after a
quarrel with her sweetheart. According
to Miss Jones' girl friends she had &
similar quarrel with her lover about
two months ago and attempted to take
a done of carbolic acid but tho bottle
was knocked from her hand before she
could empty the contents down her
throat.
Yesterday she purchased a four ounce
bottle of lysol. which is an active poison
similar to carbolic acid and is derived
from the same base. Its action is also
similar to carbolic and a four ounce
dose is an ample amount to insure fatal
results. She was discovered soon after
she took tho poison and a physician
was hurried to the scene. A stomach
pump removed the poison but her con
dition today is said to be critical al
though it is believed that her life is not
in danger.
Miss Jones was one of the party that
was arrested when the police raided a
river boat last year. Her father. Cap
tain Jones, is captain of the Grev Eagle
and he paid a fine of lftO for ffiving a
beer party to a circle of his friends.
AFTER GASOLINE TRUST
Los Angeles, Cal., Feb. 21.
Uncle &am is going to find out
why gasoline keeps jumping up
in price, according to Albert
Sehoonover, I'nited States dis
trict attorney here. He declares
that the country-wide federal
probe will soon be started.
It will center in tho oil pro
ducing regions of California
and important hearings will
probably be scheduled in Los
Angeles. A commission of ex
perts from the department of
justice, will in the opinion of
Sehoonover, probably do the in
vestigating. Cavalry Branch Superseded
by Aircraft In Doing
Scouting Work
Washington, Feb. 21. Enlargement
and improvement of the army aviation
service, to bring it up to European
standards, will be recommended to con
gress soon. Individual members of that
body aro convinced that the country
has done too little with aeronautics, and
the improvement will be sought regard
less of the outcome of Senator Robin
son's charges against the San Diego
aviation school.
"We once led in aeronautics and we
might have been abend of all other na
tions in military flying," said one con
gressman today. "But we let our ad
vantages slip until we well, we have
perhaps as efficient a crops as Serbia
had."
The army aero service has never been
given more than .."iO.nOO or ftlOO.nOQ
yearly, while army men claim that four
to 10 times that amount is needed.
As a result of the determination to
build up tho aviation service, it is prob
able that cavalry will receive less atten
tion because experts believe that air
craft have largely superceded cavalry
as scouts.
Tong Men Shoot Member of
Another Tong in Portland
This Afternoon
Portland, Or., Feb. 21. Chased
through the crowded streets of China
town by four highbinders, un aged
member of the Bow Leong tong was
probably fatally shot at 2 o'clock this
afternoon.
The four Chinese, believed to be mem
bers of the Hop Sing tong, suddenly
assailed the aged Chinese neir Sixth
and Everett streets. The Bow Leong
drew his own weapon, but when he snw
how ninny were after him, he fled.
The four pursued him madly, two of
them firing at close range. Nearly a
block they run before the aged China
man dropped with a bullet in his lb
domcn. One of the high binders, de
scribed as a tall, lean Chinese, leaned
over the prostrate Bow Leong, and de
liverntely emptied his revolver into his
writhing body.
Two of the gunmen then dashed up
a stairway leading into the Hop Sing
headquarters. Police were hot upon
their heels, for the firing iiad continued
long enough to attract a sergeant and
two officers.
The swinging doors of the Hop Sing
club rooms had scarcely closed behind
the gunmen when the police burst
through. Inside all was serene. There
were no highbinders. They had disap
peared as completely as though they
had gone up in smoke.
W. F. Matthews, a witness to tho
shooting, declared the tall, lean gun
man leaned over his prostrnte victim,
thrust the revolver in his eye xni de
liberately pulled the trigger. The fir
ing pin snapped on an exploded cart
ridge. The two highbinders who did the
shooting dropped their revolvers in the
street. Heretofore tho possession of a
revolver which smellcd of burnt pow
der was one of the few means of iden
tification when the polico arrested a
gunman after a shooting.
This is the second clash between
tongmcn in Portland within a week.
Two other Chinese are in the hospital
with bullet wounds Js a result of the
first shooting.
Expect War In San Jos.
Ron Jose, Cal., Feb. 21. Local Chin
ese were thrown into- high excitement
today when the report was circulated
that ten gunmen of the tongs now at
war on the Pacific coast had entered
San Jose secretly ami were preparing to
begin operations. Police detectives to
day searched outlying berry camps and
stood guard over the headquarters of
the Hop Sing long.
It is believed here that the lling
Kong, Kuey Ong ami ilip Sing tongs
hnve formed an nlliance against the
Hop Sings as the result of. tho recent
DIPLOMATIC TANGLE
IKES CRISIS POSSIBLE
United States Insists Germany Comply With International
Law Which Permits Merchantmen to Arm For Defense
Death of Americans Caused by Germany Sinking Armed
Merchantmen Would Strain Situation Possibly Beyond
the Breaking Point
Washington, Feb. 21. The German-American diplo
matic controversy is as grave now as it was before Ger
many made concessions in the Lusitania case, the state
department affirmed today. This gravity is due to the
Teuton proclamation of war on armed merchantmen.
The department admitted the possibility ol a crisis
developing.
Such a crisis might arise from the death of Americans
in the sinking of an armed merchantman, or through an
indefinite postponement of the Lusitania settlement.
Though officials decline to discuss the personal antag
onism between Secretary Lansing and Ambassador Von
Bernstorff, arising from German "propaganda," it was
said any plans Lansing may have about dealing with the
envoy and his alleged publicity work would not be made
public until the two men had discussed the situation.
The next United States move in the general diplomatic
situation depends upon Berlin's reply to Von Bernstorff's
last communication explaining that America insists that
Germany comply with international law which gives
merchantmen the right to arm for defensive purposes.
When Lansing was asked directly today if he con
templated calling Von Bernstorff to account for propa
ganda work, he evaded a direct answer. His face was
grave, and then after two minutes he remarked:
"If I did contemplate such action I would not make it
known beforehand through the press."
It is understood the American proposal to the allies
seeking disarmament still stands unaffected by the Austro
German action. The state department course toward
Germany will depend upon the allies' replies to this pro
posal, but this is being delayed while the matter is
threshed out in the various capitals.
Washington, Feb. 21. A deadlock bo
twecn Germany and America on the
question of submarine warfare ap
proached today.
Administration circles believed that
the issue over the Teutonic decree for
unwarned atlucks on armed merchant
men will be outlined clearly this week.
State department officials privately ad
mitted that an impasse will be reached
if advices from I'nited Press Staff Cor
respondent Ackerman, giving advance
indications of Hernia ny's probable atti
tude, are borne out. These advices were
that Germany had said her last word in
the Lusitania cuse and did not care to
be too closely quizzed as to how she
planned to carry out her armed mer
chantmen decree.
Authorities made no attempt to dis
guise the gravity of the situation, but
they said a crisis would not be reached
for several days, at least nit until form
al notes between Germany nnd the
I'nited Slates outline the positions of
these countries toward arming vessels.
Senator Stone and Williams and sev
eral republicans planned to discuss tho
decree in tiie senate. The indications
were that Berlin will see longress vig
orously back up the administration's
opposition to the decree.
Garrison's Successor
Causes Speculation
Washington, Feb. 21. Speculation as
to Secretary Garrison's successor
switched today to former Governor
David R. Francis, of .Missouri. Ho had
been mentioned, too, as successor to
Ambassndor Mnyrc at Petrogrnd, but
he refused that post before it was of
fered to Marye.
The only official word about tho ap
pointment was that the president has
not mndo up his mind. Secretary of
Agriculture Houston is still regarded as
a likely choice.
Many democrats are not In favor of
Assistant Secretary Vrooman succeed
ing Houston, as Vrooman supported a
progressive rather than a democrat for
Illinois senator.
PLENTY OF DELEGATES
Everett, Wash., Feb, 21. Completing
the compilation of the number of dele
gates to the democratic stato conven
tion, the state committee today made
provision for the seating of 1,0.1(1 dole.
gates. The committees met Saturday
night and decided to hold the conven
tion in North Yakima, May 2, four days
ahead of tho republican state conven
tion, in the same? city.
outbreak in Portland's Chinatown, May
Wall, leader of the Hop Sings, is said
to live in nu nrmored room. He has
passed safely through several tong wars
ult bnujili a price is said to have been
placed on his head several times.
Official circles thought it would be
several days before Ambassador Von
Bornstorff could receive Berlin's re
ply to Ambassador Gerard's informal
outline of American opposition.
While there is little outward indica
tion that relations between Secretary of
State Lansing nnd Bernstorff aro
strained, their next meeting is expect
ed to develop frank, if not sharp, dis
cussion of Lansing's irritation over the
embassy's improper "pvopagaud i " in
the matter of recent negotiations.
Officials declared today that Ger
many had jumped to improper con
clusions from the American note to th
allies suggesting disarmament of cr
chanten. It was pointed out that tho
United States could onv act if the al
lies agreed to disarm in behalf of hu
manity and to snvo lives, despite the
fact that this government was inclined
to favor the German view that vessels
ought not to be armed.
Germany apparently took the suggest
ion to the allies as an American accept
ance of the idea that merchaumeu had
no right to carry armament.
Borne authorities criticise Germany
for provoking a new dispute while Am
erica was trying to arrange with the
allies for amendment 01 the general scav
warfare code.
Government Can Recall
Grants of Land to State
Washington, Feb. 21. Holding that
the government can withdraw land pre
viously granted to a state, tho su
preme court today said that W. G. Mor
rison and others were not entitled to
Oregon lands bought from the state.
The land they bought had been givea
to the state for school purposes, ami
then it was withdrawn as forest reserve
in 1907. Tiio lower court held that tho
withdrawal did not take precedence ov
er the original grant. The snpremo
court ruled that tho withdrawal order
can affect lands already apportioned,
under preceding federal acts.
: TIIE WEATHER :
It-s.c nor.
XiNd
- Oregon: To
night and Tues-
probably
easterly
s
X day
Mfnir;
winds
t
