1 V"!1" ?" 1
" ""ITM
y
PUfOoM'wonuKjmnKiiwrt wHimi
,'
.. .
Ir
'L ..Mf J&J
.V
iL l " !
itZ:
""
'-"WP WjPP90",9r(?K'' vjf "
if- -
a
1 iwmK
The Commoner
WILLIAM J. BRYAN, EDITOR AND PROPRIETOR
VOL. 16, -NO. 1
Lincoln, Nebraska, January, 1916
Whole Number 681
WRITE, WRITE NOW,, WRITE OFTEN
r
Last issue contained the following: '
4The tide in favor of a big army and a big' navy has passed its flood; the ebb has begun.
J AjLsenaors and congressmen assemble in Washington they bring reports from the several states and congressional districts :
to the effect that the masses are opposed to frenzied preparedness. The scare that has been worked up by the representatives of
munition factories has exhausted itself, and even the metropolitan papers are beginning to select the things that they will INSIST
upon in view of the impossibility of getting all that they demanded. The newspaper estimates as to the taength of the opposition
are increasing, but the danger is not past. The retreat has commenced, but the opposition must not be over confident.
"Every American citizen who is opposed to the proposed increase in the appropriations for the army and navy ought to write
to his congressman, both of his senators and to the President. Individual letters are better than petitions because they indicate a
personal interest, and a personal interest expressed by a constituent has its influence with a public servant.
- "It will only require four letters, one to your congressman, one to each of your senators and one to the President only ei"ht
cents worth of postage to give to those at Washington the benefit of your views.
"Write, write now, and if one letter is not sufficient, write often.
"By acting promptly you may save yourself many dollars in taxation, and what is moreyou may save your country from the
menace of militarism and from the dano-er of wars whinh will .he Tirovo1ed.hvflJTnlinvmirirnit!fiVA,nf'anoori n v,. ;,!
vithat peace can be built only upon fear and threats of force. Do not delay."
. it is evident tnat a great many .readers, oi Tiie uommoneripiioweci,tua acwiqd give$. JJfliimxitLtotH and Representatives have
been "bearing from home," and it is having' its effect. In the beginning, the jingo papers spoke contemptuously of the "30 demo- w
crats" who would appose the preparedness program. In a few weeks . the estimate was raised to "60 'democrats." The latest "
- , estimate puts it at "80 or 90," and now republican congressmen are beginning to .speak out against increased appropriations and
higher taxes. Let the good work go on.
Write again; write now; write often.. - ' W. J. BRYAN.
,
r
Jk.
i?K
Why Not Trust the
Democrats?
election, will be affected by the action taken on
preparedness do they not doservto be con
sulted? ' - W. J. BRYAN.
i"
Is.it expecting too much of the President to
v" expect him to trust .Hie democrats in congress to
-. share with him the responsibility of deciding for
what amount or preparedness the party shall
stand? This having been declared by the Pres-
. " ident to be the paramount issue, is it fair to ig-
..' nore th democratic majority in both houses and
r" ' ask republicans to help him force his views up
on his own party? What reason has he to ques
tion the patriotism of democratic senators and
A representatives? Were they not elected by the
same voters who elected him? And have they
'" not stood by him in carrying out the pledges of
-, his platform when republicans did their best to
' defeat Iris measures?
Now, a new question has arisen and, on the
ground that the war compels it, he asks for the
adoption of a military an&-naval policy which the
feading republicans favored BEFORE the war,
but which the democratic party has OPPOSED.
Why does he, ELECTED BEFORE THE WAR
BEGAN, discredit the judgment of the demo
firatAof the house, all of whom were elected
'rafter.tlie war commenced?
Alrof these congressmen, if candidates for-re
lieving seen the democratic opposition in the
house grow from 30 to 90 in one month, it is .not
strange that the manufacturers of munitions in
sist upon immediate action.
-Rush the preparedness program through in
haste and repent at leisure seems to be the mot
to of the jingoes.
CONTENTS
!Pk,
WHY NOT TRUST THE DEMOCRATS?
THE SINKING OF THE "PERSIA"'
RAISE THE MONEY FIRST '
WORKING UP SCARES
COUNTING THE PROFIT
SHALL MILITARISM DEVOUR THE
FARM?
A SAMPLE OF NON-PARTISANSHIP
BILLS PROHIBIT PASSENGER TRAF
FIC ON BELLIGERENT VESSELS
WHY NOT PERSECUTE USURERS? .
OUR PAN-AMERICAN POLICY
ORIGIN OF THE WORLD'S WAR
SCARES
PROHIBITION
THE QUESTION OF NATIONAL DE-. .
FENSE
The Sinking of the I
rersia i
w
The sinking of the "Persia," whicluJi
brought to our over-burdened President' d new
embarrassment and o the jingo press a new pp '.
portunity to shed their red ink on imaginarj
battlefields, calls for immediate action by con
gress NOT A DECLARATION OF WAR, BUT
A MEASURE OF PROTECTION AGAINST WAR.
American citizens should not be permitted tpy
travel on belligerent ships. Why should an
American, by his foolhardiness, drag his country '
into war or even to the verge of a diplomatic
break? If he has no consideration for his own,
safety or for his government's welfare, ho should '
be restrained by law. v
What would we think of a citizen who, in
time of riot, insisted on mingling with the mob
while the mayor was trying to restore order? Lit-"
tie attention would be paid to his RIGHT .to1
walk-the streets at such a time: he would be re
minded of his DUTY to assist his government
and his fellow men. M
And so toddy, when the WORLD IS "TJ A '
RIOT, when Europe is a slaughter houfjl? and"
when the blood of the slain redderis" the aea be-'j
yond the three-mile limitthis is no -tike fdr :
'Americans to talk about the assertion of rights in1
tM
'
I"
'm
!
"i
M'
:V
9
j4 '
.HMi&&laM$j&
