OHIO STATE
UNIVERSITY
JAN G 1916
LIBRARY
L
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. HI. No. 37
CINCINNATI, OHIO, JANUARY 1, 1916
One Dollar a Year
The Puchta Administration
Takes Charge. Nearly All the Old Heads of the Various Depart
ments Will Remain. Mayor Will Announce a Few Changes After
Assuming Office. Treasurer Witt and Auditor Leimann Will Make
No Changes in Their Departments.
With the inauguration of George
Puchta as Mayor of Cincinnati, the af
fairs of the city have entered upon a
new era; an era, the importance of
which can hardly he estimated. People
in all walks of life will watch the prog
ress of events during the next two years
not only with keen attention, hut with
actual interest. This interest is not
only of the ordinary variety which the
average citizen takes in the affairs of
the home town, hut of a more personal
nature, in which the average citizen feels
himself directly concerned.
That Mr. Puchta owes his election, to
a very large extent, to this rather un
usual personal interest in the affairs of
evidence of the good intention of Puchta
to play fair with union lahor.
There will he few new faces in the
executive departments at the City Hall
when the new administration takes
going on the theory that old and proven
men are better than new ones, and this
fact alone is a good indication that the
new Mayor and his cabinet intends to
run the City Hall along business lines.
The Covington Saloons
Col. Thomas R. Cody is the Cause of the Present Move
ment to Close Them On Sunday. The Underworld
and Undesirables of Cincinnati, Made His Place
Their Headquarters On Sundays.
Coington, being a residential section,
ever body knows everybody else. Every
saloon lias its following and it has been
the custom for years to keep open dur
ing a few hours Sunday morning in or
der to oblige the patrons, to which cus
tom there had been no objection raised
by anybody.
BUILDING SUB-CONTRACTS
Factorj A new structure, about 2U0
feet square, five stories high, to be
erected on Eggleston avenue, extending
from Third to Pearl street, to cost about
$230,000. Owner, the American Tool
Works; architects. Stegner & Huehes.
I Commercial Tribune Building, Cincin
nati, O. Plans partially completed. Con
tract for reinforcing steel awarded to
I the Concrete Steel Co.. of Youngstown.
, O. The wrecking of the Greenwald
buildings now on the site will be com-
' menced about the first of February, and
! the building will be completed about
October 1, 1910.
Residence A 2'j-story stucco resi
dence, to be built on Harrison avenue,
HON. WALTER J. FRIEDLANDER
Director of Public Safety
iiox. (;i:oit(.'K i'i'ciita
Mayor of Cincinnati.
110X. CI IAS. H. HORNBERGER
Director of Public Service
the city can not lie doubted, and that his ,
administration is expected to lie far
above the ordinary is enuallv certain. ,
The people realize the importance of
the job which they have given Mr.
Puchta, and believe they have chosen
the right man to fill a big position.
Therefore, these same people are looking
for big tilings from Mr. Puchta and
taking a more or less personal interest
in him and his every act.
Union labor is especially interested in
Mr. Puchta and the affairs of the city,
and union labor, almost to a man, sup
ported Mr. Puchta, and now looks to Mr.
Puchta for big things. One of the tilings
which union labor expects of Mr. Puchta
is fair treatment, and union labor is
much gratified to learn that Parke S.
Johnson, who has always been a friend
of union labor, will be retained. It is a
little early to advance an opinion, but
there are not lacking indications that Mr.
Puchta intends to follow closely business
methods in the conduct of the affairs of
the city during the next two years ; and
this is what is expected of him.
Union labor asks nothing which is un
reasonable, and expects nothing which is
unfair ; hut union labor does expect the
new Mayor to render unto union labor
those things to which union labor is
entitled, and for this reason union labor
is taking a keen interest in the new
Mayor, and accepts the retention of
Parke S Johnson as the best possible
charge on January 1st, and it is a high
compliment to Mr. Spiegel to have prac
tically his entire force retained by Mr.
Puchta. Mr. X. L. Pierson, Secretary
to the new Mayor, who conies from the
real estate business, is so well known
that he hardly needs an introduction.
Mr. Pierson will be practically the only
new member of the executive family,
other than the Mayor himself and the
Directors of the Service and Safety De
partments. George Crawford, who has been secre
tary to Mr. Spiegel, will become secre
tary to Mr. Fricdlander in the Safety
Department, while Parke S. Johnson will
be retained as secretary to Mr. Jlorn-
bcrger in the Service Department. Of
'iiijui peisumu Man, a iiianes
RECORD VOTE CAST
the
:it Mckcnna.Jboth will
will Mayor's Detective
Ludewig and 1
be retained, as
McDcnuott.
Those who know the members of the
force at the City Hall will be glad there
will be no changes, since each member
of the official family iias proven his
worth during the past two years, and
have made friends of those having busi
ness with the Mayor's office or with the
heads of the two departments. George
Crawford, Parke Johnson and others
have done much to promote a feeling of
confidence among the people who have
had business to transact, and have made
it a pleasure to visit the City Hall.
The new administration is evidently
Iron Workers Have Close Contests
in Sciiii-Aiiiiiuil Klcctioii.
International Association of Bridge,
Structural and Ornamental Iron Work
ers and Pile Drivers, Local Union No.
14, held its semi-annual election of offi
cers in Central Turner Hall. The ballot
ing was close and the largest number of
votes in the history of the local was
cast.
The race for business agent created
the most interest, James Davis being re
turned winner over Thomas McEwcn
by a margin of scen votes. Other offi
cers elected were: President, James Mc
Collough ; first vice-president, John P.
Murphy; second vice-president, Charles
McCarthy; financial' secretary, B. Wag
ner; recording secretary, Joseph Ans
Iingcr; treasurer, Charles McCarthy;
trustee, Anfhony Roettinger; auditor,
Del. White; delegates to Building
Trades Council, Chas. Mueller, James
Davis and Thomas McEwen; delegates
to Central Lahor Council, Thomas Mc
Ewen and Joseph Anslinger; delegates
to Kenton and Campbell County Labor
Assembly, 15. Wagner, Fred Deitz and
Thomas Galloway; Warden, Robert
Penn; sergeaut-at-arms, Ed Link,
Thomas McEwcn, Oscar B r a n d e s,
George Chambers and Robert Penn.
When Cincinnati went dry on Suudaj,
Honorable Thomas R. Cod. who con
ducts a place at Third and Scott streets,
and another at the entrance of the I.a
touia race track, saw an opportunity of
doing a week's business on Sunday, and
his saloon has been a Mecca of the unde
sirables from Cincinnati all day of each
Sunday. His sitting rooms have been
full of women of easy morals, from
1 Cincinnati, which was the only place in
which they could get their "Mamie Tay
lors," on Sunday, and the sidewalks be
tween his place and the bridge have been
J lined with drunks.
Cody has politifal influence in Cov-
i ington and could have had the police
I handle these drunks by keeping the side
j walks in front of bis saloon clear and
I there would hae been no offense to any
one, and no ladies would have been in
, suited when going to or returning from
I church. But Cody was too busy inside
his place selling more booze, and the
consequence is that every saloon in Cov
1 ington is going to be forced to close.
1 he many family saloons which hae
always served the people in their re
spective neighborhoods are going to suf
fer through the manner in which the
swellest cafe in Covington, that located
at Third and Scott streets, has been
thrown open to the sporting people of
Cincinnati.
Westwood. Owner, W. S. P. Oskamp;
architect, G. C. Burroughs, Union Trust
Building, Cincinnati, O. Contracts award
ed as follows : Carpenter work, Henry
Herman ; plumbing, the Doyle & Fay
Co.; tile and marble work, A. Schirmer;
roofing, Janscn & Co.; cement work,
Chas. V. Maescher & Co.; brick work,
Aug. Joehnk; plastering and stucco
work, Werkowitz & Mayer.
School Group of buildings, consist
ing of gymnasia, stadium, industrial arts
building," power plant and tunnels, for
the new East Side High School, on Mad
ison road, opposite Erie avenue. Owner,
the Board of Education; architects.
Garber & Woodward, Union Central
Building, Cincinnati, O. General con
tract awarded to the Roche-Bruner
Building Co., of Cincinnati, for :i!)0, i uo.
BUILDING TRADES COUNCIL
The Building Trades Council held its
regular meeting Thursday night, with
President Joseph A. Cullen in the chair.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
Business Agent Hock read his report
and upon motion, same vas adopted.
All trades reported business good.
Under the head of good and welfare,
several members made stirring addresses
on the outlook for l!lfi, after which the
meeting adjourned
