V
I
Tho Monaco Has tho Largest Pald-In-Advanco Circulation of Any Weekly Papor on tho Globo-Thcroys a Reason
66
A MENACE TO THE NATION, by Rev. Jeremiah J.
Ji Crowley, for 21 yean a Roman Catholic priest, is the
This It Number 245
greatest bboK l ne Menace ever oiicrca iti rcaaen. i ne
1
NAG
book has never sold in the regular way for less than $1.50. The Menace has neveroflcTcd prc
miumi for snhscrimions. For a Hmitctl time vc are point? to deviate from both rules. We have
just received a carload of these books which we are" coinc to cive away to our friends.: Kvcry
person sendinc us $5.00 and a list of twenty subscribers, or an order for twenty subscription
cards, at one time, will cct "Romanism" absolutely free, postage prepaid. This is an offer
you cannot afford to miss. These books will jrp like hot cakes order early and avoid the rush.
aXCCWT4T4 F432titiTfc tt.l33XIax
LWIwdniJUSl
7
H
Emm
5.1
A
t.
r
Aoiifcir rD&nidlge WBd
Mexaci readers will remember
that on tha 3rd of February, 1915,
a body ot tten, all Knighta of
Columbus, entered the hotel Mar
shall t Marshall, Texas, and
killed William lilaek in hU room.
That Clarence. Hall, at that tim
a traveling anociatt of 'William
I'Lack, in torn killed one of the
men, namely, John Rogers. Hall
snot Rogers in Lis own room while
repelling a murderous attack;
and tha (rrand jury of Harrison
County, Texas, refused to indict
him.
The reader will also recall that
this same judpe, II. T. Lyttleton,
tried repeatedly to force and
coeree the grind jury into indict
ing Halls and that they stead
fastly refused to do so.
The grand jury, however, did
promptly return bills against sev
eral Knights of Columbus for the
murder of Willisra Black; the
principals among whom are John
Copeland. George Ryan and
George Tier, all members of the
Knights of Columbus, young men
of Irish descent, and prominently
ronnected in the city: none of
whom, before this transaction,
were supposed to be men of vio
lent tendencies; and the current
belief at the time by the people
was to the effect that they must
hare been doing the bidding of
the order to which they belonged.
The trial of these cases has been
postponed from time to time to
enable the defendants to get ready
for trial.
Mr. Clarence Hall, of Deep Step,
Georgia, has been present on every
occasion, and the state has been
ready for trial '
At the time or the examining
trial last . February, a splendid
. array of counsel appeared for the
defense, but very much to the
surprise of everyone, however,
when the district attorney at
tempted to aet the case in October,
only one of these attorneys ap
Topics In Tabloid
ST C. VON EIDEX
"Catholics ars Baking great efforts
to Teclaira fallea-away Catholics, es
pecially those who bars beeom inmates
of our penal institutions." A fertile Held
for that particular activity, surely.
Tha Romaa Catholie church Is credited
with having abolished cannibalism and
. paganism la Mexico. There ars a lot of
other things that should be abolished
the Roman Catholic church refuses -to
stand merry, however.
"Improve the Catechism; Improve its
Teaching" is a headline in a prominent
Catholic weekly. We thought Catholicism
, wsa as old as the Christina Era and un
changeable. Is evolution getting a grip
on the pope's preserves I
; The Catkohe Advance, Wichita, Kans.,
' . has voted Tumulty into the Ananias Club;
1 Te Morning Star, New Orleans, La.,
1 says he is ' either a liar or a trickster. ' '
i Tub Menacb rather suspicions that he
J . has bees "caught with the goods" and
. "gave up" as a matter of safety
" It la apparent that considerable num
bers or Catholics save drirted and arc
drifting away from the church." They
, ' are finding 'their way out of Rom ins
y darkness and the sunlight of truth will
' purge them of papal poison. The Cath
olic press admits much truth sometimes.
- - .
' The story about the Catholic Liberty
Bell is bark again. It went the rounds
when the SEAL Liberty Bell was about
, to begin its trip west, and is going again
Will soma one who knows give us the
; eaiatory of Ue"KaakieBeUt" Where
is it newt
"Make Snoop Chicago 'a School
Head' says Tns Vis ACS (Nov. 17) in a
cross-column head.. Doe the candidate
enjoy the endorsement!" So savs the
Cctkohe Ciluem December 11, 1013. We
might remind' the Cttise that our ad
monition was heeded 8HOOP IS NOW
HEAD OP THE CHICAGO SCHOOLS.
' "Tom Watson, charged with sending
'. obscene matter through the mails, has had
his lucky escapee by errors is the plead
t jlnga ana mistrials, out ae aas bad ao
4 -vindication. Tha records In his ease is
i substantially a moral condemnation'
'says the Cetaoh Ctiite. The Ctum'$
jf conclusion is better than its gram
"Wa have schools to traia teachers how
to teach children efficiently tha sciences
they learn in the common .schools, and
we should have like schools to traia
teachers to teach religion, the ssost im
portant of all sciences." Bines when has
religion been classed among the aciencest
Catholics are so reckleea in speaking of
faith ana facts.
The If Ustoaery says the Romaa Cath-
aliih there 4 mads Mexioe- a center of
peareU and announced that two'
of the defendants had no lawyers
at all i were too poor to hire coun
sel ; were absolutely without f ricndi
to assist them In getting counsel;
and that the Knights of Co
lumbus and Catholic church had
also refused to give any aid or
assistance: and that the defend
ants would have to throw them-
selvt upon the mercy of the
court ; and would have to ak him
to furnish them with a lawyer
without pay; but if the case
should be postponed, it might be
that they would be able to employ
lawyers by the November term of
court. These announcements were
made by 8. P. Jones.
At the November terra of court
all of the lawyers who hsd first
appeared at the examining trial
eame forth like a play of hide and
seek and were again active for the
defendants.
In the meantime, a civil suit had
been tried affecting an accident in
durance policy upon the life of
John Rogers, killed in the hotel
tragedy.
The verdict was for the insur
ance company and against Mrs,
Rogers on the theory that it was
not an accident in that Rogers
went to the hotel seeking trouble,
and there met death.
On December 13th, 1915, after
the witnesses had been summoned,
and after six hundred veniremen
had been drawn for the trial of
these cases, the court announced
that be hnd decided to change the
venue of these cases to some other
county in Texas in order that
fair and unhiased jury could be
procured. This was highly proper
and should have been done be
fore.
The local newspaper reporting
the transaction says that counsel
for the defense and prosecution
were then called upon to agree
upon some county.
In this conference the defense
missionary effort for Western fortb
America." That church alo provider
material for missionaries to work on by
its deepotie . rule. Illiteracy, immorality
and oppression hsve Indeed made Mexico
a fertile field for missionary effort and
the Bomaa Catholic church is largely re
sponsible for the deplorable conditions
existing there.
. . .
Theodore Roosevelt, has referred to
President Wilnon as a "Bytantyne
logothete" and a retired professor of
Johns Hopkins University is quoted by
the Catholic ttfue as defining the ex
pieeaioa as "one of profound contempt,"
a logotaete tying a scrivener no a raws up
papers. "It is the name of a subordin
ate who does the work of a secretary snd
holds purely a minor position. " Are we
to infer, then, that Joseph ratrirk Tu
multy is the real president and that Wil
son is merely his under secretary I
The Cafkotie Cititen nnbloshlngly
sdmits that the Catholic parochial vbools
cannot teach even instruction in the
raterhiara is said to be a dismal failure.
Get the following from a proponent of
papal pedagogy: "With all the drilling
on questions and answers, with the simple
lessons of the little catechism and the
more detailed instrnrtions of tha larger
catechism, the adult Catholic, ten or
fifteen years later, has forgotten most of
H. lie can't evea define Uie sacraments.
There has been too much dependence oa
the memory; the pupil.! interest has not
been developed nor his reasoning powers
cultivated." If Borne Can not teach her
own children her owa catechism in a
manner that will cause it to bo retained
is the mind how can she hop to be rec
ognised aa a fit instructor in the sciences!
Isn't the above a just condemnation of
parochial schools!
Hera is a sample of tha Instruction our
children will receive when we allow our
schoolrooms to be overran with "tha old
aids in black," and their bosses, th
priesU. This, from Bt. Chrysosteat is
as follows: "Bobbery and murder are
the extremest kinds of wickedness, yet a
penitent thief arrives straight at the sum
mit of excellence, and passes iato pars
diss Itself not seeding days or half a day,
but ana littl moment!" Nice leseoa to
instill Bomlsh morals, isa't itt ,
Strange that so much work is required
to preserve aa infallible religion f On
would think aa infallible concern would
require no safeguarding but that its owa
infallibility would be sufficient safeguard
to its preservation... The popes claimed
to be infallible by reasoa of their union
with tha holy ghost; that all hell could
not prevail against them ; yet . during
many eeataries the fagot and rack were
ia coastant use to defend this claim. To
day million of children are taught to
believe is the Infallibility ox the pope-,
and guarded against thiamin g people and
books containing facta. , The dwarfing
of child minds, the most rigorous of press
censorship, and th systematic drilling of
its constituents Is ail that props the pop
apoa nia pederm. -
Judge Lyttleton Changes the Venue
the Murderers of William Black. Sending Them
Across the State to Galveston, a Roman
Catholic Stronghold People of Harrison
County Are Indignant at the Bias of This
Catholic Sympathizer on the Bench
offered only two points, El l'aso
and Dallas.
The prosecution objected to El
Ft so because of its great distance,
shout ROO miles, and because of its
Mexican population so largely
Catholic.
They objected to Dallas because
of the prominent business connec
tion that those championing the
defendants held in Dallas; and.
too, because of the active and
powerful organization of the
Knights of Columbua at that
point.
The prosecution then offered to
agree upon any one of more than
two hundred Texas counties, bar
ring only the Rio Grande counties
on the Mexican border and Gal
veston, Harris, Dexar and Dallas
This offer was refused and the
matter put up to the judge.
The prosecution then insisted
that many of the nearby count iea,
like Hunt, Smith and Kaufman,
were in no way disqualified to re
ceive and try the cases.
They then offered to agree on
IcLennan County, wherein is sit
uated the thrifty and thriving city
of Waco.
They also offered Tarrant Coun
ty which includes the city of Fort
Worth.
All efforts for an agreement
having failed, the court then an
nounced that he would send the
case to Galveston County,. Texas
Galveston is 305 miles from
Marshall by rail. Its principal
o ooooo oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
SHALL WE HAVE A FREE PRESS?
Tho following article from Tha Herald of Gospel Liberty, while
printed last June. Is so fair, and so well states the position and only
contention of The Menace that we give It space. It points out just what
this government can expect If It fails to give The Menace a square deal at
Joplin week after next,
There is war in Europe, such a the
world never saw before, but let us not
forget that a great battle is raging in
th United States, such as this country
has never witnessed, la Europe it is
a battle for the supremacy of mili-.
tarism, while in the United 8tatee it
is a battle for the supremacy of the
principles of freedom. At this time
the storm renter of the conflict in the
United Htates is ia Tns Uinacx office
at Aurora, Mo. That paper has been
making war on the evils of Cathol
icism sines) it birth, now more than
four years ago. Its fight has been in
ceswant, seeking, aa it says, not to in
terfere with the religious life and
work of the Bdmaa Catholic church,
but with its irreligious side, in which
it haa become a sort of political ma
chine, with a purpose to dominate the
political life of this nation in the in
terest of the Bomaa Catholie hier
archy. In doing this sort of work,
Tub Minack haa fought with a bold
hand, declaring many dreadful things
which it says some as the result of the
political work of that body. The Cath
olie people have been greatly exasper
ated by tho charges Tns IUnacs has
made, till at lat they have brought
suit against that paper, which waa to
have been tried June 14, but because
of the sickness of one of Tax Minacb
owners, the suit haa been put off till
January, 1919, That win give time
for both aide to do their best to gnia
a victory. If Thx Minacs haa don
the Catholic hierarchy an injustice.
Intentionally, then upon proof of th
fact, that Paper will have to pay the
penalty and abide by the consequence,
but it ia a high duty of every lover
of freedom to ace that Tut Uixacb
has fair play. No one-sided judge
should be allowed to sit ia judgment
on tho case. Let not the trial be a
matter of favor, but of fact If Tbb
Menace ha good grounds for' what
haa been charged against the Catholie
church, that fact ought to be mad
known and well establihM for the
benefit of the public If Thb Menace
has been unjust in its fight, then that
fact ahould bo shown and established,
and for tha reasoa that the freedom
of this country is at stake. - A dee
pent effort is snaking to destroy '
Thb Mxxacb ss the most dreaded foe
of Bomsniam in the Cnited 8tatea.
If it ess destroy that paper, it will
pave the way to do a they please, and
without fear of opposition. Indeed,
j$0O0O0OO0 OOOO 000 OOOOOOOOO
Pears
population is comprised of the in
habitant! of the city of Galveston.
It is ixrhsos the strongest Ro
man Catholic city in the State of
Texas. Here the Jioman Catholics
hsve powerful ehurches, schools
and hospitals, ami the Knights of
Columbus are strong and active;
and it is but natural that every
public officer in the county ahould
desire the good will or these or
ganizations. Drawing a radius from Mar
bhsll through Galveston, you in
clude all the populous middle
Texas cities and count ios.
Galveston has a voting strength
of approximately 6.400 poll-tax
psyers, as shown by the report of
a recent off year.
Within this radius of three hun
dred miles is found Huut County
with 7,700 poll-tsx payers; Collin
County with 7,800 poll-tsx psyers;
Bell Countv with 7,500 poll-tax
payers; Hill County vith 6.C00
poll-tax payers; Lamar County
with G.f.OO poll-tax payers; Ellis
County with 9,000 poll-tax payers,
and Grayson County with 9,500
poll-tax payers. .
If the defense was looking for
a populous county, then all of
these were larger and possessed
more qualified jurors than Galves
ton.
Within this same area war Na
varre County with 7,000 j McLen
nan with 10.000, and Tarrant
County with 15,000.
There mnt have been some rea
;
T Tablet, a Bomaa Catholie paper,
is quoted as saying tf the suit against
Tns Mexacb is Von, then, forty
other papers which are unfriendly to
the Cstholi church in the United
States will lie indicted in order to
force their silence in their opposition,
not to the Catholic church, as such,
but their opposition to its effort to
dominate the United States Govern
ment for the advancement of its own
politieo-eci-leniastlral purposes. To seek
to mutxle the press of this country aa
a means of covering up its real aim
and giving it the full liberty it de
sires, to have its own sweet will and
way well, that ia store thaa the peo
ple of the United States will stand
for. If The Mbxa deserves punish
ment, it must suae la its place and
take it, but if that paper haa only
done its duty by the people of this
country in seeking te show th danger
confronting us throng, the overmuch
political activity of the Romaa Cath
olie church, thea iti will be indeed a
black day for the institutions of this
country, to say nothing of the hamper- .
ing of the individual life of our people
through the intrigue of a politico
eoclesiastiral machine, operated and
controlled by the ? Pope of Roma.
Whenever the fortunes of th United
States must be dominated by a single
maa who lives ia Bocae, thea a dark
day will hover rrj ear deetiny as a
. nation. Aa wa umitrstand it, it ia to
prevent such a calamity that Thb
Menace haa spoken so boldly aad so
fearlesnly. If this H true, thea The .
Menace should be sustained both by
the court aad by the people.
Why are our Cwtholie friend so
anxioua to silence Thb Menace! If
it has spoken falsely, then make it
pay the penalty, bat if it has only
told the truth of te evils of the Bo
snia hierarchy, then) of all papers is
this country, it is perhaps the most
needed. . ,
If the Catholie hierarchy is dealing
fairly and for the good of all the
people, why aheulr. they fear criti
cism f A a Protestant, w do not
hesitate to say, we pave no objection
to the freedom of tbf preee, both seru-
lar and' religious. j;if our Church ia
faithful to Ood as 4 Bis people, ah
has no cans to trr criticism of her
policy snd work. ;"t W say by all
means let th prera free to expos
evil ia the Protest hflhurehes, if such.
. evil exist, if tit press should be-!
OOPOOOOOOOOOOOC 00 000 000000 ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
to on,siginiD2e
of the Cases of
son why the court could pasts over
these populous counties and go to
the city of Galveston, a port where
neorle of all languages and
tonguea come and go.
Another thing, in atatea like
Texas inot of the qualified jury
men are found among the farmers
Galveston is located upon I
sandy island and almost the en
tire population of the county is
encompassed within the city
limits.
It is a known fact that most
men of buftincita experience man
age to disqualify in the trial of
criminal cases, particularly capita
cases where the jury must be kept
or looked up in the care of the
sheriff.
As a result, the defendants must
be tried by a jury not composed o
farmers, and not composed of
business men.
In criminal trials in the State
of Texas, the people and society
are supponed to be represented by
the judge; and so thoroughly has
trie law reposed this trust in him
that he might be called the "guar
dian of the people's rights and the
protector and defender of sock
ty."
If the judre should become
partisan, or hawed agaimt a le
feudant, be has en appeal to th
iiirlior eourta. 2 as jm hat no
anneal. If the trial jmhro is not
her protector, then she, like
sheep before shearers, is dumb.
The city of Galveston was not
o
o
ovet ' boldf 'ani eo the ssid
churches a wrong, thea th law of the
land will punish the press. The church
hss nothing to fear from Just criti
cism. It is just as true of the Bomaa
Catholie church. If her practice are
right, sot the forty newspapers sh
is now so anxious to silence raa do
her harm, aad therefore there Is no
occasion to muxxle the press, except as
individual cane may appear. For one,
we should be very sorry to see th
press of th United State muxxled a
to what it might wish to say of the
Protrstaut churches of the United
States and their practices. If there is
wrong in any church, let it be shown.
We can never drive darkness away by
keeping the light obscured. Turn on
the light and let both the Bnman Cath
olie church and the Protestant
rhorches be liable to censure, if any
paper or individual raa ahow cause
for such censure. W cannot and must
not muxxle the press in its relatioa to
any church. Th church, in any such
rane, would" Itself be tha heaviest
loser, for as long as we are la the
flesh, there will always be aome nook
or corner in which the flesh will rule,
and if in ruling, it could be aKSured
that ao one would be allowed to
criticise its practices, then most as
suredly might we expert recklessness
to rus riot ia sock Instance.
Our Institutions- must remain free.
Our press, secular and religious, mast
not be munled through an v fear of
criticism. There is but one legitimate
limit to criticism, and that ia the
limit of truth. If any maa shall dare
fro beyond that limit the laws of the
laad will surely afford protection.
THB Mbvacb is a great friend to our
country, if its criticism are just, and
so long as said criticisms eannot be
shown to be an just, no hand should
be allowed to throttle it expressions
of wkst is right If Thb Menace U
vnjastly dealt with in the coming suit,
and ia silenced unjustly, it will be a
great misfortune to both the Bomaa
Catholic church aad the people of the
United States. By all mesne, we in-
' ist that Thb Menace shall hav. a
fair aad impartial trial, aa honest aad
apright judge, aad aa hoaeet aad
Ood fearing jury, for if The Menace
is dealt an fairly with in the coming
nit, thea ether paper may expect the
' sane treatment aad sous the United
. States will hav no oa to stand for
th truth without fear or favor.
( . - - ' -
selected because it was larger than
the others.
It was not selected because it
had more jurors than the others.
It was not selected lor econ
omy a sske to protect ine isx
payers of Texas because it is 300
miles awsy.
It wss not selected because the
state desired it.
It mar hsve been selected be-
csuse the defendants approved, as
ther hsd a neht to object but
msde no objection.
It was surely not selected be
cause the people of Galveston hsd
had an opportunity to learn less of
the Msn.hall tragedy; because
after we leave the confines of
Harrison ani adjoining countiea,
the people necessarily learned of
the Marshall tragedy through the
newspapers.
The tiafrftlon Jea-, the ollw
and most powerful newspaper in
the atate, with Its Dallas brancn,
is published in Galveston,
The Houston Chronicle ami the
Houtton l'ot circulate in Galves
ton.
Certainly the people of Galves
ton have had a good opportunity
to fonn an opinion, and in that
way become disqualified in these
cases, as any outer icias i-oumj
. 1 'T- 1
outside of Harrison.
Would the Galveston jurors
have less opportunity to bear of
the Marshall Hotel cava than Hie
Hunt County farmer, or have less
opportunity than the railway man
at Fort Worth! Certainly not.
Then it was not sent to Galves
ton because the people there klfR
less than the others about the
hotel tragedy.
On the contrary, tha defend
ant. Copeland. one of the leading
participantujn Ihe hotel tragedy,
spent many wcck in uaivcHiou
convalescing from his wounds.
There are plenty of Protestants
who will acquit the defendants if
they can ahow themselves inno
When an inventory , war taken in
franco of all the property owners by tho
Rumish church, the list of holy relics
was aa follows: "Five bodies, six heal,
and seventeen arms, legs and bands of
St. Andrew: three bodies and two heads
of St Barbara; four bodies snd five
heads of St. Haaile; thirty bodies or St
Oeorge; twenty bodies snd twenty-six
heads of Ht Julia; thirty bodies of St
Paurrsoe; etc." The most interesting
relic of all waa the finger of the Holy
Ghost, which wss formerly owned by a
monastery in Jerusaleqi. Is it any won
der the priests have to quote St. Vincent
de Paul who says, "We should not ex
amine articles of faith with a curious and
subtle spirit It is sufheieot for us to
know that the chun k possesses them. W
can never be deceived in believing them."
So you see this Komish rubbish is kept
just to sMmstafs and to sfrcfch the faith
of dupes so they will stand for having
their pockets picked by toe rbiircb I
Much doleful croaking is beard from
the Komish press over the adoption of a
child to the Uould millions. They say,
"The child simply fell into the wrong
groove and his prospective wealth will
never compensate him for (be lose of a
Catholie training." The claim that the
child had a Catholie name and that it
was left oa the step of a Catholic churra
proves that it was the child of a Catholic
mother. It looks lias the boasted tain
olic moral training was ineffective in the
case of this mother, nor was her priest
confessor much good; hence the conse
quences. A priest writing in the Tahbf
says, "It is not unuual to permit a non-
Catholic woman to take into hex care a
child from this institution (Angel Guar
dian Home) bu caution ia always dis
played to remove the child when it be
comes a year and a half old and to hav
it adopted into some Catholie family."
A Protest ant woman isn't in it she isat
eves humaa according to Bomel '
A writer ia the Truth Seeker of Oct
S3, says. "W must accord to presidents
Taft aad Boosevelt aad to Pres. Wileo
great powers of mind and mental aeumes
and rxtenaive information; yet we dont
find them indulging in any narrow vin
dictive criticisms or mskiag assaults en
say particular denomination or sharing
say petty de nominal io sal prejudices,
etc." Space forbids mention of the num
ber of time the ex -president were on
their kaec to the pope.- And oae betrays
treachery when he tells but half a truth.
To repeat ancient history, Taft humili
ated the U. H. ia the eyes of the other
nations by his agreement to pay the
Vatican seres million dollars for the friat
lands ia the Philippines. Rome claimed
over two million dollars fer property I
Cuba, and though ths Cabana considered
it a downright steal, BooaeveU and Taft
ordered the libans to pay Borne a million
aad a half dollar which Spaia had taken
from the rhurrh seventy years ago! They
had no time to indulge la "vindictive
rriticisois against any denomination
they were too busy toadying to Borne!
Scratch a Jesuit aad yoa will tad
traitor.
joraQ
cent. There are no Catholics, it, is
believed, who will convict thtpi.
Then, if we assume that forty
per cent of the Galveston popula
tion is under the direct control
and sympathy of the Roman Cath
olic church, fori prr cent of to
population ere iitqualifitd t 4Vy
(A MS rav.
In the county of the courTa
selection, we hsve not only the Ro
man Catholic church with its tin ;
usual strength, hut the aeeret or
ganuation of the Knighta of Go.
lumbus of which all of the defend
ante are members.
It docs seem as a matter tf
fairness that the court would hate
selected a county free from Cath- '
olic and anti-Catholic activities
If this could not be hsd, thta."
certainly it $kould not hart bit
tent to count if uhm th actitir
tie art all on one tide.
The average man will probably
conclude from these faets that
these cases were not sent to Galve '
ton County for the purpose of
curing a fair trial, but for the pur
pose of bettering the 'chances vf
nrocurin? an acnuittaL
If these men are guilty, th) I
should have an impartial trial aJl I
cording to the law.. An impart P.
trial can be had by an impart
people. Jj2
If aociety la the ward or Jun
Lyttleton, ahe must now feel he,
self outraged not like the blamj
less Lucrece before the lustfi
hnriil nf Tf11lin Kilt V n M'AM
aye to be bound and gagged I
the h?"e of her friends and
livered to her fnemy. '
If we m'mtake not, the manhoc
and' patriotism ot the aoter5 1
Harrison " County, , Texas,- 'vrS?
bring about a political honsecleajw
ing, and those who have trodden
the law under foot,' or have been "
instrumental 'in having it- dorje,
Will be mada to feel the vengeanfe
of an outraged people.
Prisons For God
The recent attempt of a New JTiik
mother to reclaim from a convent by pro '
cesa of law a daughter who begged to be
released from the lily of a nun, bring to '
mind lngersoll's sxroriation of the con- ..
vent system in hi lecture, "What Mif6 '
We Do to Be Saved!" Haid IngersollA ..
"The Bomaa Catholie church is 4 -nly
one that keeps up a en net "At oofi.. ,
muaWatioa with Heaven through the to;"
strumentality of n large number of Je '
cayed saints. That church is aa ageft -'
of Ood oa earth. It has a person wlo
Stands in the place of Deity; and thilj.
chun-h is Infallible. That church has p-"v
seen ted to the extent of her power a-i
always will. In Spain that church stum
erect and is arrogsnt la th United
States that church crawls; but the at
jort in both countries is the same, aSd
that is the destruction of intellectual s,
liberty. It teaches us that we caa male ;
tlod happy by being miserable ourselves: -that
a nun is holier in the sight of tifil -.
thsn a loving mother with a child ia her
thrilled and thrilling arms; that a priest
is better than a father; that celibacy Ss '
better than that pus ion of love that has -made
everything of beauty ia this worlil.
That church tells tho girl of sixteen tr
eighteen years of age, with eyes like daw
aad light that Kirl with the red tf
health in the white of her beautiful
cheeks tells that girl: 'Put oa tho veil
woven of death and night kivel upta
stones, snd you will please Ood.' 1 tH
you that by law, no girl ahould be al
lowed to take the veil and res ounce te
joys and beauties of this life. I sm op
posed to allowing these spider-liks priest
to weave webs to cstch the loving maid
ens of the world. Ths re ought to be a
law appointing commissioners to visit
such place twice a year aad release evcty
person who expresses a desire to be re
leased. I don't believe in keeping peoi- ,
tcntiarica for Ood."
. The ana who sought liberation from
tha Convent of the Sacred Heart in this
city was Angellina Bueellsto, aged twenty
years. She appeared in court with her
jailers, two older suns, ia whose presence
ahe stated that she hsd concluded she
ught to remain is the convent and it
was so ordered by Supreme Court Justice
Giegerieh, who told the girl's attorney
that her mother ought to "feet proud to
have her daughter eater the convent aad
give herself to Ood." Th eircumstaneea
of the hearing were such as to admit of
the suspicion that the convent authorities
and not the girl and her another got what .
they waated, with the aid of tha Catholie
judge. '
The Holy Name Society seem to be
flourishing ia th Missouri Penitentiary.
Th Federation of Catholie 8oeietiea at
Missouri is eepposed to support a chap
lain there, snd he reports a membership
of 400. Quit a representation of papal
parochial school pupils rnjoytng the be ae
gis of discipline at the expense of the
state. Four hundred profane law break
er doing peaanee is a record1 for Bomaa
ism to be proud of (t)
t
