. REAL ESTATE FOR SAIE, TO
LET, EXCHANGE OR WANTED
Situations, Help Wanted and Other
Wants, See Section Seven
6(ith YEAR
VOIiUNU SO
.NUMBER 134
RICHMOND, VA., SUNDAY, MAY 14, 1916. -SIXTY-FOUR PAGES.
rA?B,i,,,:u ?UNSETTLED
PRICE, FIVE CENTS.
desperate Fighting Proceeds Al
most Continuously Before
Verdun.
neither claims big gains
determined Drive by Teutons on
Russian Front Believed to
Be in Prospect.
''esperate fighting is proceeding: al
most continuously before Verdun, both
? hf. '.crrnans and the French launching
? hrunts at various points against the
??'?'osing lines. Claims to any pro
nounce.) advantage in this fighting aro
rut forth by neither Paris nor Berlin,
?ach eslde declaring th:it attacks by
?hp other havn been repulsed.
Tho principal efforts of the Germans
appear to have been exerted near Fort
?ouaumont, where successive assaults
' n* dlrocted at the French defenses.
'Ml were repulsed. Paris declares.
On their own account, the French
claim to have made some progress in
the vicinity of hill So. 2S7, northwest
of \erdun, while Berlin asserts that a
1 rencb attack southwest of Dead
M in's Hill, In this region, was repulsed,,
tnd that assaults on the German lines
'*> t?io Avocourt and Malancourt woods,
t<> thn southwest, were fruitless.
1- irther to the north the Germans
>? .i'Ie three attacks against English
'ranches between the Rover Somme and
-larlcourt. In one attack, London
i-tatep, the Germans succeeded In en
uring a British trench, but were driven
out.
In the east the Germans are display
ing pronounced activity along the Riga
Dvlnsk- front, and Petrograd indicates
?in expectation of a determined drive
b> Field Marshal von llindenburg in1
this region in tlie near future, it Is
not believed In the Russian capital,
however, that any general offensive by
?he Germans on the Russian front Is
in immediate prospect.
An offensive by the Germans against
the British expeditionary force in Ger
man East Africa has been barren of
result, according to an ofllclal state
ment from London.
am. attacks
KEI'ULSED IJY FRENCH
1'AltlS, May 13.?Tho French trenches
K'tuthwesl of Fort Douaumont and posi
tions to the north of the Thlaumont
)*arm were violently bombarded yester
day, according to official report of tho
French War Office. Issued to-day. Tho
report says that all of the German at
t.ol;s were refulsed, the enemy sus
taining serious losses. On the left
bank of the Mouse tho artillery com
bats continue uninterrupted.
The statement follows:
???'ii the left bank of the Meuse the
artillery combat continued without In
terruption in the sectors of the woods
?>f Avocourt and hill 304. During the
night we realized further progress in
the vicinity of hill ^ST.
"On tho right bank the Germans re
newed yesterday their attacks on our
trenches southeast of Fort Douaumont.
In fcpite of the violence of tho bom
bardment which preceded the enemy as
saults, our line did not waver at any
point. All attacks were repulsed with
s-erious losses ft>r tho enemy. Other
attempts during the night upon our
position north of Tliiaumont Farm
were likewise arrested by our curtain '
of fire and machine guns.
At Epargea a strong German recon*
noiteriug party, which, after a bom
bardment, attempted to reach our lines,
was unable to debouch.
"!n the forest of Parroy and at Ban
iU'-.Sapt there was quite a lively can
nonade.
"On the rest of the front the night
was calm."
ARTILLERY COMBATS
O.V ITALIAN FRONT
BERLIN", May 13 (by wireless to
?Sayvllle).?The official Austrian state
ment of May 12 follows:
"Russian front: The Increased activ
ity on the Volhynian section of the
front is being maintained. There were
no events of particular Importance.
'Italian front: Artillery combats of
varying Intensity continue. Two at
tacks by the enemy against Mrzllvhr
were repulsed.
"Balkan front: The situation is un
changed."
imitLIX CLAIMS REPULSE
OF FRENCH ATTACK
BERLIN, May 13 (by wlrele-i to
SayviDo).?The repulse of a night at
tack by the French southwest of Dead
Man n Hill, on tho Verdun front, is
reported in to-day's official statement
by tho War Ollice. Attempts by the
French to advance in tho Avucourt and
Malancourt woods nlso were fruitless.
Tho text of the official statement by
German army headquarters follows:
"Western theater: liotwoen tho Ar
?onno and the Meuso there have been
:ively hand-grenade engagements at
isolated points. Enemy attempts to
?:*in terrain In tho Avocourt and Malan
?onrt woods were frustrated. An
? ?neinj. attack during the night south
west of Dead Man's IJill was stopped
by me firo of tho German infantry
"The French suffered considerable
losses on the east bank of tho Mcuso
?it a fruitless attack on tho quarry
west of the Ahlain wood.
"A German hattlo acroplano shot
down a hostile biplane above the
lmurguignon wood, southwest of Laon.
.v British aeroplane on May 11 was
brought down by German defensive fire
southwest of Armentieres.
"Eastern theater: North of the rail
way station at Selburg tho Russians
attempted an attack ugalnst ttfe
(Continued on Second Page.)
THE MOST DELIOnTl-'UL WATER TRIP
IN* AMERICA
Via YORK RIVER LINK now steamers to
Baltimore. Luxurious statorooma; perfect
culelne. Plan your summer trip north via
this line. Take your automobile along.
J/Jt,ana AlaAUou 2J3 toz JnXcnaatJon,
i
I. C. C. Issues Order in Attempt
to RelicOe Freight Congestion
at North Atlantic Ports.
WASHINGTON, May 13.?To relieve
freight congestion at North Atlantic
Ports, the Interstate Commereo Com
mission issued an order establishing
through rates from the chief cities in
toVhlT1? WC8t ?" aU comnjodlties
to Charleston, 8. C., for export
toT,t'hnr?.rdr prowvl,lcs that the rates
o Charleston shall be the same as
those now in effect from the same
I?oints to Norfolk, Va. The chanK0
I ou?t8ni 8h'rments from Cincinnati.
Louisville. New Albany and*Evansville
j51" Lou'8' St. Louis and
Memphis when shipments are routed
by way of the Southern Railway, in
ts order the commission species that
does not necessarily approve any
.dividual rates that may be estab
lished. but that all such rates will be
subject to complaint, investigation and
correction.
Low through rates are already |n
effect to Norfolk and ports along the
Atlantic north of Norfolk. The estab
lishment of low through rates to
Charleston will mark the first attempt!
to divert to southern ports a part of!
J1.!*0 ?f CXPOrt trafTlc that ha9
glutted the railroad yards at New
o^k. Boston, Philadelphia. Baltimore
? ? ? Northern ports for months.
This traffic, which has threatened a
serious car shortage in some sections,
has accumulated primarily because
| there are Insufficient vessels to move
export commodities pouring into the
terminals.
Extension to other Southern ports of
he low through-rate privilege may fol
low the experiment Initiated to-day
Authorization for such through rates
releases the carriers from the general
rule against higher rates to intermedi
ate points.
MILITIA GUARDING JAIL
Precaution Agalnnt Possible Attempt to
Release ?rto Murderer at
Wilmington, \. c.
WILMINGTON, N. C.. May 13.?The
county Jail here is being guarded to
night by a detachment of the Second
Company. Coast Artillery Corps Na
tional Guard, while the entire company
is held in readiness at the armory, as
a precaution against a possible attempt
on the part of negroes to etorm the
prison and release Thomas Merrick
seventeen-year-old negro, who to-day
was convicted for the second time of
th? flr3t deSTee. Merrick
killed L. B. Hudson, a white man, here
last August and was sentenced to elec
trocution. On appeal to the Supreme
Court he was granted a new trial,
which was concluded to-day.
On tho strength of numerous reports
and rumors to-night to the effect that
negroes about the city were arming
themselves and gathering in groups In
the suburbs, Sheriff S. P. Cowan re.
Quested that the military company be
detailed, and authority was securcd ;
from Governor Craig at Raleigh by
long-distance telephone for the com
pany to be placed at the service of the'
sheriff. j
CLARA LOUISE KELLOGG DEAD
llad Brilliant Career on Operntlc Stage
Until She Retired, In
18S7.
NEW HARTFORD. CONN.. May 13.?
Clara Louise Kellogg, a prima donna
of the American operatic stage before
her marriage to Carl Strakosch, in 1887,
died at her home. Elpstone, this noon!
after a year's illness. Mrs. Strakosch
was born in Sumtervllle, S. C., July
12. 1S42. She was sent to New York
City for her musical education, and
made her first appearance as Gllda
In Verdi's opera, "Rigoletto," at the
Academy of Music in 1S61.
Miss Kellogg received much atten
tion after her appearance as Margue
rite in "Faust." This part she sang
throughout this country, and her tri
umphs were equally brilliant In Eu
rope. Later she organized an English
opera company. Her successes were
no less marked when she formed an
Italian opera company. She sang in
Her Majesty's Theater in London in
1867. After a tour In opera from 1868
to 1872 in the United States, she again
went abroad.
After her marriage, she retired from
the musical world, and the couple took
up their residence here.
BERNHARDT BACK IN PARIS
Returns From Front, Where She Gave
Six Performances In Three Dnya
for Soldiers.
J ARIS. May 13.?Sarah BernhardL re
turned to-day from the front, where
she gave six performances In three days
to the soldiers.
"Nothing could be more moving," said
Mine. Bernhardt, "than playing before
such heroes. It was the incomparable
event of my life. The warmth and
heartiness of their applause was most
touching. I was delighted with my
trip. T even persuaded General B
to tako mo to a placo near Pont-a
Mousson which Is usually bombarded
by the Germans. Tho general refused
at first, but then consented, saying:
| 'Since you Insist, very well. You aro
worthy, madame, to bo ?t tho post of
danger.' I regard that as the highest
compliment that has over heen paid
to me in my whole life."
Spanish Railroad Strike Off.
MADRID. May 13.?The general
strike on all Spanish railroads, which
had been set for May 20, h is been
called off. The points in dispute have
been settled through concessions
granted by the employers.
RKDUCKD FARE TO ASHKVTT^Lft, jf. C.
Account Southern Baptist Convention 111 ca
,T?MrllUla SOUTHERN RAILWAY. May
a -B %us5v~Ble2pln* ?*rs JUcl?
jaanft ? J?? At, TimOaji M?y l&T
BANDIT LEADER AND FIFTY MEN
KILLED BY CARRANZA FORCES
I
No strained relations here. Mingling of smiling American soldiers and impassive Carranzistns nt the San Antonio, Mexico, camp of the Ameri
can forces. Cordial relationship apparently exists between the Carranza forces and the American troops at the cainp, thero being little or no friction.
ARMY OF 206,000 MEN !
IN PERCE AGREED UPON
Conferees Will Submit Report to;
Congress for Ratification
This Week.
SENATE RILL SYSTEM RETAINED |
Regular Line Can Never Go Relow
160,000, and Maximum Strength
Would Re 170,000 Officers and
Men. (
WASHINGTON, May 13.?A standing !
army of 206,000 fighting men, capable
of being expanded In emergency to i
254,000, and backed by a federalized
National Guard of 425,000 as a reserve,
Anally was agreed on to-day by House
and Senate conferees on the army bill.
The agreement will be reported to Con
gress early next week, and the measure,
the first of the administration pre-1
paredness bills, is expected to be before j
President Wilson for his signature soon j
afterward.
Advocates of adequate national de
fense regard the conference agreement
as a triumph. The compromise between
the House and Senate measures was
effected after weeks of struggle against
an Insistent demand from House con
ferees for a standing army of only
140.000 men.
The minimum enlisted strength would
bo attained under the conference agree
ment within the next five years, and It
Is stipulated that at no time shall the
total be less than 160,000.
The conference report also provides
for government nitrate manufacturing j
plants to cost not exceeding 520,000,000,
for vocational education In the regular
army, and for establishment of military
training camps for volunteer citizens
whose transportation, clothing and
subsistence expenses while in training
would be paid by the Federal govern
ment.
TRAINING CAMP FEATURE
HEGAnDEI) AS COMPENSATION
The training camp feature as finally
approved Is regarded as compensation
In a measure for the Federal volunteer!
reserve of 261,000 men, which Senate
conferees were forced to abandon on
Insistence from the House.
In the agreement on the regular army
the Senate bill system of organization
was retained as a substitute for the
House system, which would have re
cruited a maximum army of 110,000
men.
The .regular line of the army, the
hill now provides, can .never go below
160,000, and its maximum strength in
times of pcace would be 175,000 officers
and men. In this calculation, however,
thero are excluded 5,723 Philippine
scouts, 6.409 in the quartermaster's
corps, 7,200 in the medical department,
3.3S7 in tho signal corps and S.750 un
asslgned recruits?a total of 31,659.
These, added to the regular lino of
175,000 men, give a total regular army
peace strength of 206,659. The Presi
dent Is authorized to increase the reg
ular army divisions to maximum
strength without congressional action.
The volunteer resorvo army of 261,000
mon provided in the Senate bill goes
out. leaving Ihe reserve nrmy to the
National Guard, which will be federal
ized, according to provisions of the
House bill. All officers and men of
the guard must take an oath of allegi
ance to tho Unitod States, as well as
to tho respective States.
Tho National Guard at maximum
strongth would be recruited on the
basis of 800 mon to each congressional
district, which would aggregate a total
of 425,900 men. This reserve force,
together with tho regular army of
(Continued on Second Pago.)"!
GOING TO BIRMINGHAM.REUNION?
SOUTHEKN RAILWAY Official Route. Karo,
$14.65 round trip. May 13 to 17. Stop
ovor*. A r ran so Pullman reservations now.
Pfeoo* Atadlson 272,
? ' 7 ' ?
Preparedness Parade
in New York Greatest
in History of Countru
Civic Army of More Than
150,000 Men and
Women Join in Spectac
ular Demonstration.
.VEW YORK, May 13.?A civic army
of more than 150,000 men and women
marched through the streets of New
York to-day to demonstrate their atti
tude in favor of national preparedness.
An almost countless host, representing
all walks of life in the nation's me
tropolis, for twelve hours strode twenty
abreast, behind bands playing patriotic
air6, through {lag-bedecked streets
lined with hundreds of thousands of
cheering spectators. All the profes
sions and trades which make up the
complex life of the city were repre
sented. It was the greatest parade In
the history of the country.
In one division were the street
sweepers in their uniforms of white,
while in another were the dignified
justices of the Supreme Court of New
York. There also were the clergy,
nearly 200, representing every denomi
nation in the nation's greatest city.
Lawyers, physicians, trained nurses,
veterans of the Spanish-American War
?all were in line. But the most popu
lar division was made up of the city's
10,000 National Guardsmen?infantry,
cavalry and artillery?who brought up
the rear.
'"This," declared Major-Gcneral Leon
ard Wood, in command of the Depart
ment of the East, who reviewed the
parade, "is the greatest argument
America has ever known in favor of
preparedness against elements that are
at present unknown."
OFFICIALS STAY ALL DAY
IX REVIEWING ST A M n
The great civic army began marching
at 9:30 A. M.. and the last of them had
not passed the reviewing stand in Madi
son Square until 9:30 o'clock to-nlglit.
The paraders marched rapidly,, more
than 10,000 passing a given point with
in an hour. When the first division dis
banded after walking the full length
of Lower Fifth Avenue to Fifty-seventh
Street, the Mayor, accompanied by
Major-General Wood and Rear-Admiral
Nathaniel Usher, in command of the
New York Navy-Yard, left their car
riages and took seats in the reviewing
stand. Except for an hour for luncheon,
they remained until the parade was
over.
Governor Whitman, who viewed the
demonstration from a flag-draped bal
cony of the Union League Club, de
clared it was the most remarkable ex
ample of patriotism and civic pride he
ever had witnessed. ,
With fow exceptions I ho marchers
carried small American flags and wore
button-holo emblems. At frequent in
tervals came ono of tho 200 bands.
Tho women's division, estimated to
number between 5,000 and fi.000, began
to appear before the reviewing stanO
about 6 o'clock. Mrs. Theodore Roose
velt, Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt, Jr., and
Mrs. .T. Borden Harrlman wero among
those in line.
FINANCIAL DISTRICT SWEPT
IIY SPIRIT OF PATHTOTISM
Tho financial district of tho metropo
lis to all outward purposes was swopt
Spend the hummer on the Chemipeake nnd
Ohio Hallway.
Summer folders, with liut of Mountain
and Seaside resorts and summer homer, can
now bo eecuroa from tiokot a* eats.
by the spirit of patriotism. The great
buildings in "Wall Street and adjacent
thoroughfares were literally covered
with flags and bunting, while bands
stationed at virtually every corner
played patriotic airs. Business waa
suspended at the noon hour, and offi
cials of banks, trust companies and
other Institutions joined with their
employees in hastening to Join the
parade.
The general committee in charge of
the parade to-niglit issued a statement,
which pointed out that It had taken
from March 10 to organize the parade,
and that, notwithstanding the demon
stration in favor of preparedness, "It
must be remembered that the marchers
were In no sense organized or equipped
for the defense of their country. Not
a uniform had been supplied, and not
one piece of equipment had been fur
nished."
Although reports were current dur
ing the day that anarchists contem
plated making a demonstration against
the marchers, the police said to-night
the parade was remarkably free of
any disturbance.
The new armored motor battery, the
first thus far acquired by any National
Guard organization in the country, was
greeted with cheers all along the line
of march. There were seven regiments
of infantry, three of Coast Artillery, a
part of the First Cavalry, batteries of
Feld Artillery, the signal corps, engi
neers and the motor-car battery.
THOMAS UDISOM TKAMPS ALONG
WITH YOUTHFUL STRIDE
Thomas A. Kdison, notwithstanding
his sixty-nine years, tramped along
with the stride of a man half his age,
at the head of a contingent of twenty
two members of the Naval Consulting
J Board of the United States.
j "Such a parade needs no expression."
j declared the inventor to-night. "The
fact that 1 marched In it expressed
; my sentiments exactly."
All except two of the members of
! the consulting board were in line.
I Those absent were said to bo ill.
Many business houses were closed
while the city gave itself up to its
celebration of preparedness day. The
sidewalks from the Battery to Fifty
ninth Street, tho start and finish of the
parade were crowded. It is estimated
that at least 1,000,000 persons saw the
j demonstration.
Twenty thousand women were in the
j pageant. Workers in 200 occupations,
j lawyers and other professional men,
city officials and city employees and
10,000 members of tho National Guard
I in uniform, and thousands of veterans
of the Spanish War composed the long
column. The lawyers wero led by
twenty justices of the Supreme Court.
The marchers wero divided into sixty
four divisions.
FOHCBD TO ItEJKCT
<10.000 APPLICATIONS
Demands for a place in the parade
so greatly exceedod tho time and space
that tho promoters wero compelled to
reject G0.00D applications. Beginning at
the Battery at the southern tip of Man
hattan Island, tho divisions fell In lino
at intervals all the way up lower
Broadway, Central and Lafayette
Streets and Fifth Avenue, nearly to
tho reviewing stand erected in Mad
ison Squaro.
Thoro, from a stand containing thou
sands of spectators Major-General
Leonard Wood, Rear-Admiral Nathan
iel R. Usher, commandant of tho New
York Navy-Yard, and Mayor Mltchel
reviewed tho parade.
Woifrrn North Cnrollru* Mountain Reports
In tho "LAND OK THE SKY." Cool, de
lightful. chftrnilntf. Outdoor sport*. Through
flioeplnjc Car from Hlohmond, commeuclnjr
J.un? 20. 80UXH&BN RAIL WAX,
Land at Several Spots to Visit Scenes
Connected With Early Days
of United States.
STOP AT HISTORIC MANSIONS
Party Travels Sixty-Two Miles, Passes
Hopewell and Conies to Within
Few Miles of Richmond?Negroes
| landings Recognize Executive.
NEWPORT NEWS. VA, May 13.?
President Wilson tp-day forgot, fc the
time being. the difficulties of the Ger
man and Mexican situations and cruised
along- the historic James River on the,
naval yacht Sylph, landing at several I
spots to Visit scenes intimately con-|
UnuS J!!h th? 6ar,y days of thc
nited States. No important messages'
came from Washington to disturb the
quiet of his week-end visit, lie does
Unm \? retUrn t0 tho White Ho"se
until Monday morning.
Although the President has been in
und!Sri? 8 ,)Cforc, ho never had
SO nmny P,accs nor the
historic spots visited to-day. He has
planned for several months to go to
these scenes associated with tho lives
of several former Presidents of the
l-nited States, and to-day ho carried
out his intention. carried
The President arrived off Newport
News at 7:30 A. M. on the- naval yacht
?Mayflower, accompanied by Mr?? Wll
son, Miss Margaret Wilson, his daitgh
r. Mrs. W. H. Boiling. Mrs. Wilson's
mother; Miss Bertha Boiling, Mrs. Wil
M?r'LS w!'?ter: J?hn JlandolPh Boiling,
Mrs Wilsons brother, and two Secret
Service men. The Sylph was waiting
here, and the party was immediately
transferred to her. and the trip Up the
James River began.
I'ASS IIOPEWELIj and within
FEW MILKS OF RICHMOND
Passing by Jamestown Island, where
Smi,HrCCt?Vtat,,e8 ?f CaPtaln Johnl
; h *nd Pocahontas, an ancestor of I
. .s. Wilson, the Sylph continued to I
Shirley, the homestead of the old Car
ter family of Virginia, where the rtrst
-?toP was made. The President and his
party spent an hour on shore visiting
the old mansion. During tho ride up
tho river the President traveled sixtv
two miles, and passed Hopewell, the
hite of the immense Du Pont powder
nr ?.r5u 1,0 WCnt wlth,n a few mUes
or Richmond.
On the return trip tho birthplace of
former President Tyler was passed, and I
another stop was made at Lower Bran-'
wmi .fOn,,0r h?mo ?f Ex-Prosidcnt I
\\ Illani llonry Harrison, where another
obi Colonial mansion was visited. At
estover the former home of William
n>id a Colonial ofllclal, the President
Planted a poplar tree on tho lawn in
front of tho mansion.
? At each stop tho President was
quickly recognized by negroes gathered
at the landings. Ho and Mrs. Wilson
were warmly received by the present
occupants of tho old mansions visited
and he spent soino time asking ques
tions about tho traditions connected
ith each spot. Some of the people
to whom ho spoko had never soon a
I resident before.
I'ho Sylph did not return to Newport
S0W" "nU1 aftor "> "'clock to-night
Mr. JM'son and-hls party were immedi
ately transferred to the Mayflower, and
spent the night on board her anchored
orr tho shipbuilding yard here. A Brit
ish tramp steamer at anchor drifted
so near during the night that Captain
Berry, of the Mayflower, sent an
ofllcer in a launch to request the com
mander to move further away. The
^sldent and Mrs. Wilson probably
will come ashore at Newport News to
morrow. lo"
Y?U N <Mt
co[[rJrpPo7?Xn7eUTrrv',?0nn(,
at nominal co?t. Qreat
booklet Apply SODYUKim j
PEDRO CEDILLO, /
NOTORIOUS CHIEF,
AMONG VICTIMS
Fifty Others Surrender in
Engagement at Ciudad
del Maiz.
CAPTURED MEXICANS
WILL BE EXECUTED
Trevino Hopes for American Co
operation in Cleaning
Up Coahuila.
WILL BE IX PERSONAL CHARGE
Carranza Gives Xo Indication of Re
newing Request for "Withdrawn!
of United States Troops.
TORREOX, Mf)X? May 12 (via El
Paso Junction, May 13).?The notorious
bandit leader, Pedro Cedillo, who has
infested Northern Vera Cruz; two of
ficers and fifty of his men were killed
in an engagement with government
fo.rces under General Eugenic Lopez at
Ciudad del Maiz. Fifty of the bandits
surrendered.
General Lopez captured Ciudad del
Maiz, and in further skirmishing killed
Pedro Cedillo's brother, Martin. The
fifty captured bandits will be executed.
The Carranza losses are few. The bat
tle with the Cedillos is looked upon
as the successful beginning of a cam
paign that will clear Northern Vera
Cruz of bandits.
General Nafarrate, now at Tampico,
wired General Jacinto Trevino here that
he has taken over direction of the cam
paign, with the exception of the port
of Tuxpan.
General Trevino. who Is commander
of the military division of the north
east, In announcing to-day he would
leave next Tuesday for Chihuahua City
to take command of the campaign to
clean up the bandits of Coahuila.
said he hoped the American troops
would co-operate actively In bringing
the hunt to a prompt termination. The
general said he already was moving
large bodies of troops into the infested
region.
General Jose Santos has reported to
General Trevino from Parras that he
has entirely wiped out the Chacon
band of outlaws. Twenty-six were
killed in a battle and eleven were cap
tured and executed. Chacon was the
only bandit leader who refused an
offer of amnesty.
An Intermediate for Canueto Reyes
said to-day that Reyes's people were,
only waiting for the retirement of the
American forces to lay down their
| arms. He denied that the bandit Con
treras is recalcitrant.
CAHItA.VZA NOT PRESSING
roil TROOI* WITHDRAWAL
WASHINGTON*, May 13.?General
Carranza lias given no indication, Spe
cial Agent Rodgers, .at Mexico City, re
ported to-day, of renewing immediately
through diplomatic channels his sug
gestion that American troops be with
drawn from Mexico. Eliseo Arredondo,
his ambassador here, telegraphed yes
terday for instructions to guide him in
Informal conversations he expects to
have with Secretary Lansing.
Major-General Scott, chief of staff,
will reach hero on Monday from El
Paso and confer with Secretary Lansing
on tiie proposals by General Obregon.
Secretary Lansing has indicated he
would not bo prepared to* seek a pro
tocol agreement with the Carranza.
government until he has heard General
Scott.
General Scott advised the War De
partment lato to-day that he ha-d as
surances from General Obregon that
orders had been given to concentrate
the forces of the do facto government
In the vicinity of Parral and on the
Mexican stdo of th*? border In the Big
Kend country. General llliss, acting
chief of staff, said he understood the
Mexican forces to be used would bo of
sufllclont strength to 'clean out" Villa
bandits and factional outlaws in those
sections.
COAST ARTIIiLlSHV COMPAMKS
REACH SAX AVI'O.VIO
SAN ANTONIO, TEX., .May 13.?Two
companies of Coast Artillery* reached
hero to-day and pitched camp at Fort
Sam Houston, near the militia encamp
ment. It is expected at headquarters
that all of tho companies Included in
tho movement will be in by night, mak
ing a total of seven at this point.
Four companies have been sent from
their stations to strengthen th?
border forces at El Pnso and Marathon.
General Funston will reach head
Quarters to-night, after an absonco of
more than two weeks, necessitated by
tho conference with Genc-r.tl Obregon.
Ho Is oxpeeted to outlino'a program of
work for the militia, by which tho
State troops will be put in shape for
service within two or three weeks.
I.AMiHOn.N'K HALTS HASH
TO AWAIT SIHI.teV*S ARRIVAL
MARATHON*. TEX., May 1$.?Fifty
miles south of tho Mexican border from
Hoijuillas, Major I^inghorite halted hl?
dash after tho Glenn Springs and Bo?
qulllaa raiders to-night to await th?
