THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day; to-morrow probably rain.
Highest temperature yesterday, 63; lowest, 5a.
Ptttillt'il wenthcr. nut II itnil murine lepotls on page 21.
IT SHINES FOK ALL
VOL LXXXIII. NO. 2f7.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, MAY 14, 191G. Copyright, lilt, by the Aim Printing nnd Pubtmhlng Association
62 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
LATIN NATIONS !631.000 ARMY. 142.000 MARCH IN PARADE FOR DEFENCE:
TWO KILLED IN
SPURT TO WIN
AUTO TROPHY
WILLING TO LET PEACE FOOTING, ; 1,000,000 MORE LOOK ON AND CHEER FLAG
U.S. INTERVENE AGREED UPON IN IMPRESSIVE OUTBURST OF PATRIOTISM
Hepnblies Helicve Mexico
Has Strained Limits
of Patience.
OFFICIALS SEE HOPE
IN SCOTT'S JIEPOIIT
W.vsiilNi.ro.N, May 13. The Amer
ican lloviriimciit lias received unoffi
cial h"II.iihw from tit Oovernnients
of Argcntln.i, T.ru.U, Chile, ltollvU,
I ruguiiy and (iu.itetu.ila that they will
Interpose no objections If the Tutted
Slotcs llnds it necessary In Intervene
In Mexico.
Although -.lie I'l enulent i di'tei mined
to avoid Mich .i step If il is possible to
do so, the iissurniict-s of mural xtiiot t
received from these liovernnients arc
reguidcd jim ,i powerful It'Vcr In the
diplomatic negotiations with u-iiiii..i,
inasmuch as nil fix of these Powers
Joined with the Tufted Slute.H Lift fall
in deciding to tccngnlze the Cirrutizi
Uiiverntncnt after 11 vnln tt-:il to tli,
two faction in Mexico to get together.
Although the soutee of the insinua
tion ciililiot he disclosed, it cm he
fluted uut..oi natively tliul not only
have these six l..ilin American Power
h.sitifHd their u illliiKnt'.i to Keep
lunil off, tun their Informal assur
ances have gone so t.ir a- to indicate
tlnir willingness to baoK up the United
States with nil the nior.il -oppon they
could mutter
lime I tiniiueil I lirlr I uiii',
Throughout the millions pro.jies of
Mexican development." one of t ! seri
ous factors which the Administration
1m? h.id to face ha liven the attitude
of the ni of the Latin American ic
publics. Sllr-plclull J always of the ill
tuitions of the Tinted State, Latin
America ha looked askance at any
thing hke the u-e of the nulled Met on
the part of C i lountry lovv.itd any of
the Latin republics.
These nunc lx Powers dining the
1'un-Ameticun Mexican t mitei-ence laxt
fall made it plain in assurance to Hen.
Carr.inz.i that ih-y would not sub
scribe to any step hy the Culled States
looking to aimed Intervention In
Mexico,
According to tlie inform.itlon which
has bum bruimht to the I'l evident,
there -has recently been n decided
change of heart on the part of the
ceuntrle-t In question
Couvncvd now tha' tlie Tinted State,
ha no ulterio; minuses with lespeit to
MeNi.o. high officials of these i-oimliies,
the Presit'ent ha been advied. appie
tlate the fact that .ic ha? "tialued the
limits of pntieuie in dealing with the
situation and that the Anieiican public
has -tot'd fci moie fiom the Mexican
e-tttlaw t'lHii 'lie nubile of any other
n il ion would have
rntl' lleioirl Hopeful.
Ofi a; of the Administration how
etei. .re itltl liopeftil that Intel veiitlou
ran be avoided They were greatly en
cu:iued this afternoon by a lepoit re
celved 'i n Mujc r-fSeii, MiikIi I., S ott,
who I ft III Taso foi WaaliliiKton to-day.
followlni; tlie iiiljcurnmeiit of his con
feienteH wltli :p. Obteann.
The lepotl fontl'inen the i:nircKlnn
heie t lat wnde tlie eunfei enoen did not
leJUlt III anv loim.il iiKneiiu-nt a tacit
iiiiderftandini; wjk leadied whi h, uu
cf all Ulltowalil Iiii idetit should o.cur,
iould etmble the mllltni force nf tli
two (iovermnems to net In harmony.
(Sen. Scott said in bin repoit that, fol-lowliu-
the la.-t i onfereiife, (Jen. Obregon
bud s'lven onler for the movement of a
latee far' of Tin i aiuMns umler lien.
Trevlno In'o the I'.ural dUtrlrt ami Into
the cllsti His ot Cliiliuiihiia and Toahiitla,
iippotdte I he IIIk Uend reel inn of Te.a.
for the purpon' of clermlin; up the ban
il'tn who attacked lilfim Sprlnssi and !5o.
(pilllaf.
Ill this connection Cien, Scott indicated
hto belief that Hen. Obtefjon wan In
better position to command the support
of his ttoojiH than had he signed nn
agreement, which mlKht have been mis
construed by the Mexican people. The
American Thief of Stan described the
Ituatlon k'fiier.illy as very favorable.
The War Department received a re
port fiom HrlK.-ilcn, I'ershlng to-day
through T,(n. Kunstoii statin; that ho
was carrying out the orders kIvpii hlin
to move his base further north and
Khortcn hlH line of communication from
tho border. On. Pershing stated that
ho had seen no sign of any CarratiBlstu
troops diulnc the redlsposltlon of his
forces.
The War Department has also been
advised that (Sen. Kunston has placed
f oiirimifd on rotirth Paiif.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SEVEN SECTIONS
AS FOLLOWS t
pct.
. . I6-,
FIRST -Gfner.1 Newi
SECOSD Sportini. Kenneli.
Automobilu
THIRD -Society. Drama. Faih
ioni. Muiic ....
FOURTH -Pictorial Magazine .
FIFTH -Special Feature, Booki,
Qucritf, Chc . ,
SIXTH -Foreign, SchooU. Car
dun. Poultry, Finan
cial, Problem! . , B
SEVENTH-Rn Eitate . . . 4,
Total
62
Rttitn et ntviJttttit uho Jo not re
(ti(4 all of that iittlotu will tonfu a
tor on " The Sun" h notify tnt tho Puk
Ikotlon Dtpailmtnt at om hi A phont
(2200 Bttkman) and minlnt mc(mu
Mgl k pnmptk fremiti If poutU.
iMlli.lHMI culai's and kJo.-i Preparedness Demons, ru
fill) Militiamen, the 1 lion Oreutest. Tnrnout in
Arrangement. tlie City's llistorv.
PAY FOR THK MEN AT
INSTRUCTION' CAMPS
'aiii.qti)V, May 1.1 r-Tonfetee of
the Senate and House on the army re
organlxatlon bill have leached an agree
ni"nt which InsuieV a defensive army In
lime of p.aco of 631.000 men, Inclusive
' uilllilii, 'r. ennferen e lepoit was
not signed to-d.i). but an asreement was
tcaclied as to all of the Important mat
te ' In dlmmeeiuetit and !i Is eiecled
that me i, pent will be signed Monday.
Tne ud.itia teserxe plan unicli has
been coiuli'iiiM.'d by all ntiny ixpeit.. s
letalued, woli'i means tlial Connres.s will
Insist upon Suite uoops Instead ot a
iesiil.ii (i Miluntier .irm, as the back
bone nf Hie teserxe fonts.
Tae "bl; iinij" nu-n, bouee', KOI
Imro.tant cull rsslolis In other dlicc
tioii. In li.-n of n "volunteer anny'1
lhe olilalned mi nlarueiu-iit ami up.
i ialU.it a,ii of tne authoi iKatloti tor
c.inp- i, lns'Mittlon u'.inli will inal.r
it misIi,. ultimately to develop a bli;
le'rlU1 foice
White the authoiuition for tne regu
bn st.ibh-hnieiit of tlie arni is not all
tll.it the Senate deidred, House ion-
fi'leis yieldeil on the plan for the organ
ization of tlie standing aimy and of tho
Teiiet.il Siaif, which will make it pos
s.ble to have a n-tul.tr ariu that will
not fall belou li'oi.nmi t any tune and
in.i be hicicistd :ii time of iieate u
lT.'i.iioO exclusive of t lit- t.'iiartennaster
T.ups, Medk.il Toip. Signal Toips.
Thillpp.ne Sjouw and miasslgneil ie
lults, so tb.it the p,i.ili! stieugth nf
111 peace n! my m.i amount to Hii'i.OCNi
in.'ii, in the ids r Hon of the Sei iei.nv
of War
Nlllloonl timiril sirrnulli.
Tli- aiiiiiiiiiz.it.ini lor tlie mlht.i
nhnll wiif Itt.ilued will sue a peiina-
lent I'lili.'t.'.l stieiiKlh of the National
(.Haul of tti" States of IS.'i.OOo men. The
regular iiiniy. under the Hiithoi Izatlon
of the lull, may lie lutleaed to '-TH .00.1
men, iiicludmg the various torps and
the Tlillliiplne Scouts and unasslmied le
irults, Tne Semite had voted for a
minimum stieugth of the tegular Himv
of i'Jo.nOii, exclusive of the corie above
rueiitlntied, til" Philippine Scouts and the
mi.isimitMl ir. lulls
The bill nutliorlaes tin eiilaigement ft
tlie plan foi rami's ut insti in tlon, as
plnpii..fd b tlie lioiisi. In confot mlty
with Ih- I'laitsbmg Idea, o that cill
xens who ma) wish to avail tbemsitves
of the piiwl.ge of milltaiy liisiiuetlon
will be siipplbd by Hie i !ov eminent Willi
unlfouus. traiispoi tutiuu. subslstenre and
medical attendance, and In addition will
levejve the pay of inlls ed men in the
legulai aimy duiliig the time spent hi
the Instiuction camps. Yhls lasl feature
v.as einbudl'd in the iimenilnient pin
liosed In the Senate b Seiiatoi Lodge
of .Maesacliusetis
There was alo an asieenient on the
piovislou whettliy the Coveiniueut ran
obtain war materials In case of war or
tin '.itr in-. 1 war b piovliilng thai plants
which produce or ale capable of pro
timing munitions must dispose of them
ai prices satisfactory to the CJosern
i 'ent. and the Coverninent Is empowered
lo take over the plants, If heessiiiy, to
Insuie the c.niylng out of tills autlioi.
Izatloii, Tlie lilll aullioiUes a board
on inoblllzatlon of liidustres for war
purposes.
A provision Is made fur the appoint
ment of two civilians and tluee uimy
oltlter.s lo investigate the Hot eminent
maiiufactuie of war matcilals and re.
p.. it to Tougtrs not la'.er than the Him
of next January.
The fentnte aiUted in the Senate pro.
vnled for vocational eduiatlon. but It
will be modllled slightly without Impair
ing the general features of the amend.
meld.
llrUHiilialloo of llegolnrs.
(irgnnlxntlnn of the legulai aim pin
vnlis for slxt-llve regiments of lufan
trv, twentv-tlve of cavalry, twenty-one
, of Held artillery. Ito.OOO co:ist artllleiy
nien and seven regiments and two
mounted battalions of engineers, Tho
1 (icnetnl Stuff Is Increased from thirty-
four to fifty-two, as the Senate con-
I ferees demanded,
The Senate confeiees won In the main
on the organixatlon of the National
duard. National (limrd offlcera will
1 have repiesentatlon In the bureau of
mllltla affairs In the War Department.
Senator Wadsworth's amendment pro
viding for the rtoublo oath of allegiance
to State and nation, put in by the Sen
ate, In retained with slight modification.
Cleneral officers of the line are In-
I creased by four Major-Generaln and
I nineteen Urigadlor-ftetierals, aa the Sen-
, ate conferees Insisted.
Senator Pomerene's amendment for
the training of reserve officers and for
tlie creation of a reserve ott corps
was adopted.
Tlie term of enlistment was nxed at
three years with the colors and four
ears In the reserves, with the pro
vision that any soldier wno showed
himself proficient In military training
could complete his active service after
one year on the recommendation nf ids
superiors,
Authorizations for a $20,000,000 nltiate
plant, for an Increase of the number of
officers In the Signal Corps and the avia
tion service, for Increases of tha various
staff corps and for equalization of pro
motion In the different branches of the
service were adopted.
The conferees also adopted the plan
for the protection of the uniform ot the
service, put In hy Senator Thomas of
Colorado whtn the hill was In the Senate,
SCOTSWOMEN IN DRY PARADE.
.'Ill, (HMi In l,lnow March In Pro
test Aaraliiot Miiunr.
I.onpom, May 1.1, Thirty thousand
women of (llasgow marched through the
htreets or lie city to-day as a protest
Halnst the manufacture and sale of
llmior during the wnr. It Is said lo have
been the largest demonstration by women
ever known ill Scotland,
The panders, headed hy hands,
matched lo tho (Ircen. where speeches
weto made.
CAMI'1N"N MOUNT MITUIKM., N. V.
Information regarding places for Hummer
ramrV In U. H. Foraatf fn North Curollna.
GthaXand of the lir." ApDlr BOUTHBrtrJ
JIYV, Miv" OUct, Ml WIS Aranut. Ail;
KAILNKST MARCH KIIS
KXTIIUSE GKX. WOOD
Spirit of Conntry Kccaled
as Hands IMa.v the Na- !
tional Antliem.
W'OMKN WALK TO SHOW
MF.TTLK OF AMKIMCA
Mrs. Hoosevelt Cheered in
Line Thomas Kdison
Leads Naval Board.
The old American spit It flared up In
till", easy going, comfoit loving New
Vurk yelertl.iv ami Inspired the gie.a
est ilemoiisttatloii for patriotism out
cmutry has even known.
It fired I'm- and slralghtenrJ
tin- shoul.ieis of Hl'.Ouo earnest men
and women who matched up P.ioad
wa.v ami l'IMi avenue fiom e.nly in
the morning until lute at night
1 1 made iimt t- than l.oort.Omi specta
tors blinked at the dges of this human
ttiient do something moie than theer
oi btat their hands together it made
tl em think - made them understand
how tletei inlnedly anil posltlve'y the
solid t itl.eiishlp was expiessltlg Itself
til the demand for tomplete defeiliea
mi land and sea.
It opened the eyes of a giuiip of
Western Toitgiessmen. caused tliriu lo
stM'e at en eh olhtr In nm.izrment ami
sent them hack to Washington with
something of a I int. perhnps. to their
tolleagiies of littie navy and little aimv
tuitions It jolted the Miceter.", 1
leiued the douuKis. nv erwhelincd Ule
urn '. ttalii, immeasurably delighted ami
reassuiid Hie II lends of prep.nedliess
Mote than anything else the splendid
march for national pieparedneti was a
P'.nfe.slon of faith, as thai line old
gentlem jii Joseph II Tho.ite teiiKitked
ti lien l.eou.ll.l Wood .'IS the.V .stood
with kindling e.s on the i. viewing
stand m .lntlisfm Squat e wiih Ma.vm
' Mlld.cl and Atlmlial Tsher. a ptofes
slon of faith testified to with almost
lehgioiis giavit Their, linl'ed w.i
the keynote of Tie un '.lilp.n rile
pittad-.
j Mure her Mioned llioni.l .
I Lacking the uistoni.it y accessoi it
Jso fnniiliar In civic processions, the
flamboyant banners find theatrical
transput elides and gaudy milforiiis
and all of the otl."f propettles that pull
it: the emotions, the pir.ide was In
finitely Imprielve because of tlie utter
' eiirnestness ot the marchei. There
I was nothing frivolous about the bear
Iiii, of tiiise men nnd women who
HV.cpt ti om llowlitiu Cien to the
liana, wave on wave. They did not
laugh foolishly They .scarcely smiled.
Thie win no .skylarking or horseplay
or idle greeting of nentulntances or
fiientlH ulong the way.
They were marching In a gieat
cause, for a big Idea, and it was m
palpable as lightning to tne eyu or
thunder to the ear. They were grave,
contained and earnest Ix'caitse they
were the living exponent of the
gravest, most earnest idea of the tlmea.
They had Hinged spontaneously from
i
every activity ot tno cuya inc. cacn
' man. each woman pnthunlantlc!illy con
ttibutliiB n part of the expense of Hie
demonstration some , 5ome $10,
s-f.nio $100. each from hi means. They
weie the men nnd women who muke
the wheels go round. It wim lher
cause, their parade, No makers! of
munitions or powder barons sent them
to march. Honorable men bear wit
ness to Hint, and If their evidence had
been lacking a glance at the pnraders
would have been convincing enough.
In several Huras of the Koran It le
written that men who walk In tho
biigtitnrsw of fulth are greatly exalted,
Such In simple truth were the men
, who wnlked yesterday. It Is difficult
to enlurgo on this, the spiritual bide of
'tlH- domonstratlon. Here were 142,000
I of the finest types of cltizcnhnod, the
best sort of material for soldiers In the
i ccuntry'M need, au Hen, Wood wan
I quick to see, who rutne from their
clerks' dawks and their workmen'
' benches, nnd their executlvo olllces
rich and poor, famous nnd obscure
1 nnd went shoulder to shoulder In
a splendid level nf patriotic zeal,
Tl. rough nnd through tlie parade was
fraught Willi warning and heavy with
Nljinlllenucr',
It wax absolutely nnn-partlsiiii, The
soirled Men of men which came Hwlng.
lug up tin. ttiin bathed avenue pint the
reviewing stand from 10:30 A. M, until
7 1. At. the li!7.000 men of the trade
and the professions, who marched In
th, sixty-three divisions of tho civilian
piiniiio didn't give a moment's
thought to party politic. They didn't
euro a rup who was Itep u hi lean or
Democrat or Bull Mooae. But they
knew that they themselves were down
. IB.vt Tii'lPrtv lini! & T'-lMWrtnfl
The great preparedness
to the iijiilp.ui ui llawie"- Mint i all
Ism without all ollo.v or h phenlstll.
Ann that had it cftVrl on the spcUa
tois Siller the flist pai.nle Was given 111
New Yotl, af'tr the Sins nnd Stripes
bnauif the symbol t,f pttiitiin neVer
was so niiiiit honor spontaneously
Given to tile national colois. As iiituh,
pel baps, us the ejiheeliif of the
mnrdieis, tMrnestnes that thtlllcd the
lu nit moie tlinn ti uinpet tails or toll
tne drutus could have tlone. was tlie
o'lick eagerness uf the spectator.-!
every when" to show tint they loo dt
slml to pay levetence to the lias.
'Iheie weie of course the formal
salutes given by the Mayor and his
stuff lu Mndlson Square, by Hen. Wood
and Admiral Taher and their stales of
Hi- ai my mid the navy, by liov. Whit
man, Independently reviewing the
column from the Tnloti League Tlub's
stand at Fifth avenue and Thirty -ninth
street; by the police and by otll
clals whose service or tialnllig impelled
them to raise gloved hand to cap visor.
Rut the most Impressive tributes to
j the colors were those that came almost
bashfully from the close packed multi
tude upon the five mile of sidewalks.
! That, truly, was worth seeing. They
I saluted, some by lifted hut, some after
the mtlltnry style, some by handclap
t ping, but all saluted in some way as
' band after band played "The Star
Spangled llanner." Hie vpiiit tli.it
fired the matching column was burn
ing vlalbly In trie neurts of then,.
masses, it was ".My i-onniry, 'Ti nf
Thee," expressed in a gesture.
Slle nf Pnrntle liiireae.
These reflexes of patriotism, sponta
neoud hums of fepllng ftom Hie men
and women of a caiele.ss, money hunt
ing, pleasure loving community stiuck
homo lo the heart more cpilekly and
strongly even than the fact of tlie In
comparable size of tlm patade, That,
howevt'l, '" a lll.ttltl lo nlll the llllllgl-
nnlli. ii.
One resiets lu willing of j enterday's
eloquent pariulo that superlatives were
ever use,) In deeilblii!j notable civic
gathetlngs, Tliey should liavo been
saved for preparedness' match, every
latt otu of them, The mero re
coiling that the pariiile was the biggest
in the history of the city iiml nation
Im a colmiesH way of putting the 1 1 tit ti.
And yet the Immensity had lis place
III the ImpresslvcncsK of tin- day, Thoso
r.tuidy and vigorous men came on and
on and on until the eve wearied with
watching them, until tho brain grew
iliu.i1 fiom trying to estimate limit- lu
credible numbers, There was HoinelhliiK
hypnotic about the surge of the sober
files.
Let no man eay hereafter that ther
I nothliyj Impressive about America'
characteristic mascullna headdress, tha
derby hat, or about the sedate Mid
parade, marching up Fifth
ing south from Thirty-eighth street.
utitflv i ill s,i k suit or etiy ot the, such a womltrfully uppt al.tig i.i,i-e in
other ilia!, t itiilimeuts of tlie svinbte Tils t-oiiiitry In UiiIhs of p(..i as the
male The thousands that kept wtcp dt m uni tor jirep m iliuss.
to the time heat of '.'Oil bauds! vvoin ue asks natural, y euoimli what sort
nothing mure attractive than thesa com- , of men matched? What suit, plij. suallj .'
Utonplace garment the every.ly gin'-1 u "'e they oiiiig, snapping f. Mows, able
incuts of street and lorkslion and oillcu; I l shoulder a ittle anil stand the rigor
'nnd .vet thete wa a thrill to It. It wo 'f tiiUnuig' Hid they look as If they
J so doAiitluli.. s pal, ,i witliely and) would answtr a serious c.dl? Tlie an
simply t.vpl al of the plnin men wlinUwet s liest put in the .in-,- (I'pp.il
Were jnitlliig heir plain selves foi ward words of the soldier whom ill.; K'alsor
'to cnriee. tin- tail; of tonllttli men and "n'v described hs the Von .Moltke ot
wi nd worn ii Tb.ue "ir.'huiK men i Amei i a.
vtou'.l ii.ii. ml, no mi. Ii heart stir
Tug niissa., if, h ih, in bad thev Walked
In -matt iif.itiiis nml BO, lace
,IUM I, Ik1,- lllr lliaulllia.
Tbey tame on, obedient to a sudden, v
j evolod illsclplliie, camo on twentv
, abreast, with scarcely an Interval be
, I ween their broad flies. Their celeilty
I and steady pace astonished the keenest
iMaJor-T.en. Leonard Wood, who woulir
not bge bellpven, as bo admitted, that
I .. ...... I. ....I l,l. ...... ......1.1 t
mi 1 1,. 1 1 n , i i iii.v-iis iuiiiii oitiitii sn etviiny
ami m such aecuiato allRnnienl. Wl
acres had written to the press doubting
that a muti) as c.000 men could pim
a given point within an hour saving It
i couldn't be done, that was all there was j
to It. Hut the pnradtrs commanded b
(Inind .Marshal Charles 11. Sherrlll went
I by the nillclal reviewing stnnd at the i
I nite of 13,noo an hour sometimes. Once,
when (Jen Wood stood, watch In liaiul, 1
liming their pace, lie reckoned ptecn6ly
I ,!.. tit., .ulilllltirnnl nf nn.lnHi-i .
I brave shuwing these follows made
; vvete passing at tlie rato of iO.OOO within
an hour If cot. sneniUH estimate o;
I.,, iiuii in i ue coiumu or men roni the
limb and profession who pas 'I,
the annul stand from 10. JO A. M. to,
7 P. ,d. holds good, it U seen that the
avei.tge rate was slightly more than It,
000 an hour, an achievement wlih ,t
broke all records for civilian paindfli'i.
and would nuke the regular aimy nf
tho United States step pretty lively I
The only person who had a (.h.inre to1
observe the whole parade In lis gigantic i
sweep from Howling Green to Fifty-ninth'
sltcct wa Tdlp BJorklunil, the nvintor,
wiio circled in the Runslnno s.ooo fe-t
nbove Manhattan In tlie middle of lliuj
afternoon, Spectators at the street levi i
or watching from tooftops or Hkf-j
s,-nii..i- ledges could ee only n com-1
p.irntlviiy small pnrt of the column, but
to the fortunate iijorKlumi in lil-t glisten
Ing monoplane
It was given to observe'
tlm whole.
Peiiiiii!i In trying to untivey a definite
notion of the magnitude of the column
It Is only necessary lo say that It e.
(ceded by l.'.OOO tlie largest parade. Dial
bad even been given, and that was the
Sound Money Parade of 1X96, when the
country rose against the same Individual
who In now to outspoken against pre
paredness, Mr. Hryan of Nebraska. 1onr
yents later New Votk saw u vast pro
cbslon, und again In 1908 In the Busi
ness Men's Parade, hut even that held
&o, 000 less than yesterday'. It the
strength of a causa Is to bo measured In
human turns, then there has never been
avenue yesterday,
"My iienrge"' "j d l.eiiu.iid Wood,
tinning to Admiral Tshei, "wh.u -pie.i-did
soldieis these fellow- would lliil.e'
Look at 'in. Tliej're viiuiis; mui, nine
ihii of evtiy I'll Tuey know nothing
.ibOUt drill, iilev ve never had t.. lining
und yit they li-ive the swing or it"
And this, a much as anything else,
snipiised tlie tasual onlooker, siirpilsed
hlin, because It was h.i'dly to be etc
pected that a sudden Call, with no time
for fancy business, would have luoiiitht
f1'"1" "l" Nt,h;,,1 g" md of .Yvv Vmk life.
factuty ami ntllee. iliims.in,i- ,
till
thousand of the solillet tj pe I' thaps
foil; have had a win of speaking of
New Yorkfts as nwll toddle, a un
law shouldctod, thin cheated people, ami
have attributed to the West or to mstlc
population more of the potential sol.
tllerly qualities, Hut If all wiong.
The million who looked on yesterday
convinced themselves that when New
Voik sends her men to the battle line she
will send stout, husky lads who can hold
Iheii own with the Hmusleis, the tut k
t'.vcs, tho Wolverines nnd the llailgei
! I
it any wonder, tbereroie, that the
surge of these was a matin of p tiibar
Interest to On. Wood''
If some idea, hovvovei vague, has hi en
given lekattllng the sigiullcauu- and tln
mas'ed weight of yesterday's ileiniiii ti.i
lion, some estimate ot lt spiritual mean.
1 1 iK and of Its physical fence, 'hei,. re
mains to be described the beautllul
.smoothness of the patade uig.iiiiz.itiou
i iiey ttou itnt w iiuiiei stnoii ci.-ailv
enough befoiu jesteitlny' perl'ertlj cti
ordlnated demonstration that Col
Charles Hitchcock .Sheitill was a geniu..
when It come to handling men en masse,
to assuming the duties 0f the chief of
Hinil Atilff,
Tine Work na a Vlitrslutl.
Hut Ihmisnnils who weie nut :it.;nt. ai
Sherrlll' ability sensed It long hefoir
tli'p shndows began to gather iu tlie eve-
"lug. He ginned the stu-et uptown and
uiiiv oitvu wiio i kiii h awn tinir i e i-
tliue to swim into line, lie thrum lliem
into line at the precise minute Ihe l""li -
lent ilemaiiiletl. lie kept the vuHiniii
ne..UH ...n-illil .will. nil iaose ill,l
the lecnfcircement potired In. lie llnu,t
division after iIIvIhIoii out of line when
the end of Its route had been reached
without delay In the marchers at the
rear, lie niinilpuhiti'd 142,000 untrained
men and women a a Major-lieueial, full
of experience, handle a trained and
automatically responsive cotps upon a
mauceuvre neia.
,i,v ictuii I,.,,, rmour ,rimiinii. t ue
column kept moving, hut o did traffic.
The Intervale between divisions were eo
This photograph was taken look
-hlevillj ',.,, ,(;, J t,j Suell.,1
aids that stit-t tain and velu.ie- had
no dilli. ultv iu maiiii.iiiiing a reasonable
St'hrtlule. The longest Intttval b.-twtt-u
division In point of time was tliite uiiu
Hies. I'm the most pan the iliw-i, in
cline on heel in toe, half a minute be.
tween
The p.ill.e. at then- l..'t in this tlty
In the handling of parade problt in (it's
a tradition of tlie rou-e). used plain
lioise sens,, ui permitting id -tilatis
and vt libit s u, ,i- the line of match. I
They behaved intt lltgently fiom Hist to'
i.tst i ne 1 1 was no w.ld 'siainlile anv
W'leie 'Iheie was ro liillgliuess
ill liatiilliug people Pi, mi the standpoint
oi poine worn trinn eveiy uther stii'itl- I
point, the tt.ty wit- ,. n,at N, w y.irk ',
niav lemeinli. i with s-.n Ixt.i, turn tilid '
pride. j
in any ib :iiniis'i,ita,n when- the will
to express paiilotism was so unilnrm )
and getietal when- ecr man. lo mat-l.-r
what nude or profession In- came1
from, seemed t.t lti u per.-on.il pride
in keeping his Hiln up ,,nd 111 shoulder
back, in tiding his level b.-t fur the
cause, a comparison of the ,celeiire'
of division '-i out of plate It may .
fairly be tecoiiled. however, that ceitaliil
prominent 0 visions attracted entliiisin-1
He t heel ing lieciiu-e nf the number In'
line or because of cetialii pleasant mini-1
Itles
lien, Hi'lilgoiit o I, ends
lliiol.fr,
under (!en
There wire the banker
iillvit H Hriilgiiian, the bi.Mi
stepping
old ami young uovs fiom the gie.it mid
little banks, li om the tiu-u , limpaiii,..,
fiom the Moil, ICviii. iil;i' and the brok
ers' ollltfh-- 1 1.000 of them No tiller
hotly of Aineiicati ntliens ev.'i tr.unne.l
the avenue than they. 1'reslt nnd m
mui luiiiiful of vim, lliere was a look
II. Hie. i c.ir whit Ii as muib a sa.ti :
"Ti v us. L'tuin Sain' Juai try us.
II, in all!" lien Wood hue,! them nnd
l,,)
said so lie nufii the englnceis, uho,
by William Haniny Parsons and
LieiU.-Tol .Mctrill II Smith, display ed
some iiicttv line samples of manly
physique. He III,. .1 the men from the ,
lighting tompauics n.OOn .if them, and
vvondeted wlo'te tliey bad learned In '
mi rch wiih so nun h of oilpt.nsi- ,,.
clsioti j
'Why. (lenei.il. ' said Admii.tt Tsher.
'.mui know und I know that Its in lliol
hi 1 We've got a llilli soft mavis
bill Ihe hour anil muscle are there. Theso
ail' Hue men, by gad! '
The nerve ciutie oi the demnusti.ition
was at the oiflclal reviewing stand In I
Miidlson Square under tint lice on thti I
I i-ast side'
I irtll aveiuio at Twenty,
l-'ioin thai centre the whole
tloiinl In ol.iilieiK'o to tin,
! .muIi stu ii
'., n-tili- tun
, Ill ,,r Ijiull.l . ar.slla Slletll.l Tl,.,...
; ,, , ,lN ,.(ll,lh , , assistant
nurslial and the eaptinns, Hinging coin-
inanil". siiik and tertaui connnands, up
town sum now n mwn. i acre no rtveived
the inessiigfs of progie, heating bow
this division or that hail debouched fiom
Href nine waiting lu a side street to It
place lu the advancing column. Technt.
,.ulle Ills liemlnliurti-u wuu Iti Ih. t.-u. n nw
office or lienry C'ew Co. at Fifth
2
L Cottf fincett on Fith Page.
, Limhei'",' and Aid Die as
The.v Tr.v In lleuain Lh
Lead in Metropolitan.
jTHOFSAXDS SKK TWo
, TOSSED IIIOII IN All!
Car Hums as Sceii other
Uaeers Keep on in Con
test to End.
( DEVKi.VE N.I!I,M)M
MISSES I) ISA ST El!
... .
'Clcsc lleliiml W reeked
1 A n to. His Car Is tor Mo
ment Out nf Control.
f.tr Ltmherg was Itist.iuuv kit e.l
i ami Ins itiechinilc inn. It. Tallotti. was
, so badly Injured that he tln-d with n
iu few tnlnuUs, In tin- thiiiiclll mile or
1 1 to Metropolitan Tioplty race of t.'.'i
milts ut the Slietp.she.iil Uay Speedway
j ytKierday afternoon.
I.lnibtrg had led the held fiom 111"
'start until IMdir Itickenb.tchcr -
who eventually won the race and two
jothei p.is'td l.linberg on the li.uk
I stretch a few eiontls lfore l.lmbctg
and the mts'liiinlc weie killed. To get
, Ills lend buck I.lnibtrg took the north
tiiin of the bowl at more than ti")
utile an hour
lud was again In second
place when suddenly
tho 20,000 sptc-
1 tntor. cried out n Limbers' Jtllow
i Uelage car, whlzlng tilonp; high up mi
the. liui of the turn, tinned crazily fur
n moment toward the top rail as it the
car would leap out Into the meadovv
1 land thirty fret below.
Two in Vnln Tostetl Inn, Vlt.
Linibeig rlghteil his car for n tno
nittit. Then it hit tin- tup r.i.i ag.i.u
itinl Loiimleti twenty feet Into the mr.
The grand stand nowtl s.iw two
bluirt'd masses shot actoss the bm.)
sk.v - Limbeig ami P.tllottl. They d.s
.ippe.ircd over t! e top rail of the nuttn
I tut n. Tho .vellow tar, now tlrivcfli
.summed tlown mi the liigli ldr of tlm
i Hack, bounded into the an- once mom
und then tolinl over ami over down
a- toss ih,. track to tin. bottom of the,
bow I
Staie!v had the ,.n im t;,P itvd
silettll of lOllttetr at tho bottom of
the 1 .11 n when a gloat iiki.s of ll.nue
I id it In. in view. And mere wrie
Itiivis.iiids tliett. whose lace ,:;
Whiter becatli-e they thought ihtvtr
nnd mechanic weie solnewhei,. in Tie
tetl flame, the thtiui).s ut tin- south
end of the stand being either too tne
awav or too tiiinii eiigrte.st-d with ot.n r
. to -ion in ine i, ii-,. ai Ule IllOUlt lit o'
the aci Itb'tit ti, s f tilt bndli s of tne
two men tiiiiiu t ii up .inn outward
over the top rail,
KlftV feet III- ,s I, ,,f lamhel'e;
when hs i a,, piobably lieiniise ,(1 ,,
flat lite, had h.gtm to swerve toward
the top of the bowl wa his Helage
i ic animate, .lines ijevigne, who h.'i.i
p:is-d Linibeig on t;,e ba, stret,;i am,
had bten .as,.,i ,1, tn, 1V , a
at til" not tn emi ot tin- meti 'i .. t i.
ur-i sign in ii. nig. r i. vign, si,,,,.
tne
bawl in avoal the
' kai; alie.'ul
llet lulie Whirls In liiele.
lievigne made a nug.itv i If,,, t ., e
bottom of the howl to straight u Im
.11' Ml' a'-Miti Hut as In inn, h.ne hit
the Hat itincrete It spun inouiid uiinl
II ll.lll llesttlbld llllet i Ollllllete i ll.
ties almost m lis own .tngth At tli
en.) of the third hair lals.ng spin i
vlglie itg.iliod tonliol ,in,l .'.iiitiiiiii.il tn,
coute-t t..i Hie 1 eiua iii ing IL'il miles,
eventu.ilh .oniiiig m si ennd in the ia..
While tlie llames, toiil by thus,
bla.k smoUi. leaped iiji fri,m n,e vvin k
age, thous.intls of piison in tlm m
lb hi, motor ambulance and touring e.iis
that ll.nl been paiked on tin, e..,,rl,
nv.tl witlnii the Hack eiiclosute and i.ir
driving otlh'lal luirrled in n gieat
Cloud of .lust towaid the north rnrn
Tviii above the iii.il' or .seven i.i. nV
tan- still siuiinlng past th,. biiitiuig
wieikngt- could be heard tlm s nniis ,
in.ni.v mounted policemen and in.,
mounted pattol from tho Seituid Kieio
Aitllleiy In their efforts to turn nm
! slieams of humanity
b.nk from ii"
blazing i.ner.
A .voting ainbulauce suigeoi- In
I .loeph Wtatia of St. Mary's Hospital.
, Jamaica, and his driver, Tom Connors',
beat me crown to the spot Hesplte He.
, fact that seven car were still roarlm-
aiouud tlie two tulle track at a speed
In tlie neighborhood of 100 mile an
hour, Dr. Wran.i ami a friend of Lint
berg, a spectator named Martin ,1 Kai.e
of Tali Lafayette avenue, started to climb
uj t),. stee a::c! cry ell:, ttruk m ,'m,
middle, nf the turn.
lloelor Tee Peril of TrneU.
K'tne nod pp. Wraita had beet, , i,,.
enough to the sluasliup to eo the bodies
of Llmberg und Tallin tl catiipiilied m,.,
the top rail to tho Held outside of the
track, and they wauled to ilimh ii
Hack bis'imse It they did not they coiiln
not get to the driver and mcchanlci,! t
unless they went the length of thu great
stretch of Held to the southern en
trance. Katie crawled slowly up the greasy
track, slipped back, und tried H again
ninl got lo the lop befoir any uf Hie
racing cars null pounding anuiiiil cano
nut of tho haekntretch. Hr Wrauaalsi
climbed, Hlld back and started to climb
nguln. lie dug hi nails Into the cracks
between tho plank and was two-thirds
ot the wii' to the lop of Hie howl when
the roar of the oncoming ruceia cause 1
bis ambuluucti driver tuid others down
.'AaiV-11-' 'i ''-I MAmsUHiVn
