WBATHBR
f\TR TO-DAY, RAIN TO-MORROW;
' V;,,,, p \ rr VAR1 \hi.k. WTND8,
IMING NORTH AND
NORTHWEST.
, r*..ll 4^ro*-t <mi rorya 11 i
iVctolirrli
ijribime
CIRCULATION
Over 100,000 Daily
Net Paid, Not.-Returt.able
First to Last?the Truth: News - Editorial* - Advertisementa
V,m l\\YI .. No. 25*382.
l<?l>4Haht 18l??
The Trihune Aia'n.*
SUNDAY, MAV 1 _, 1916.-43EVEN PARTS-SIXLT-FOUR PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
Defence Legions March 137,000Strong
PREPAREDNESS PLEA OF MARCHERS WHICH WON CHEERS FROM THE CROWDS ALL ALONG THE LINE.
TROOPS RUSH
10LANGHORNE;
RAIDERS FOUND
14th Cavalry Crosses
Border to Take Part
m Battle.
VILLA IS REPORTED
NEAR U.S. BORDER
Banriit Said to Have Con
(tntrated Force to
Raid Over Line.
- ?? , Tex., May 13*- Fifty
thsj Madcaa border
iron: BoquillM, Major Georjje T.
?,ait??d his daf-h after thc
and Bo'iuillaa raiders
? the arrival of Colo
?k W. Siblej and thrcc
l Ith Cavalry.
? day advance scouts
rne's s.'iadron inet
txmi trja, who
mdita mora ctmcen
' fifty mttes fouthward
"0. On receipt
"' ijor Lanphorrt*
a csnfo to adriss < '-ilonel Sibley,
coramanner of th. , j>. dition.
e source it was
Iearned thal bley decided to j
cross ?. *a\rft lassHf a ,
small | ? H'?..iuillas, the aub
base, _?.d to p'j*h on with all apeod |
-.jor Langhorne
bfl arrived.
.. Grande Co?o
' ?.. have telegraphed
bt San Antonio,
for more troops for thc expedi- :
Oapti rabara, base quar
terma ? njj food, for&ge
*'ie coiumn.. as fast
Ktoaday another see
Ifl trucka arill reaeh
here ' -nd will be Bill (
? i Marathon and !
immediaU'ly.
Villa, with Big Band,
Reported Near Border
I _ . , trannmnnm ot Tie Tr>._?j_-_-_
Paso, Tex., Mav lt. Reports
"t ta the border by Mexican
fnnt'iri'ert on p?ce t, ea-lumn ?
MEXICANS BURN TEXAS
SCHOOL; RAID FARM
Ranchman Frustrates Attempt to
Steal His Horses.
I.aredo, Tex., May IS. - An attempt
last night by a party of Mexican horse
*-?- ?-4 eapture horses from the farm
of Ambrose Johnson, eighteen miles
r.orthwe-^t of Laredo, was frust rated b*
the ranch foreman, who opened fire on
' the marauder?. The party fled toward
tha F.:o Grande.
One hour Iater a sehoolhouse a mile.
' from the ranch was discovered ii
flames. The building waa partially de
BtroycA. _ _
U. S. ORDERS REBELS
OUT OF SANTO DOMINGO
Will Be Ejected by Force, Min*
i Mer Russell Warns Leaders.
Santo Domingo, Dominican Ttepublie,
j May 13. W. W. P.u?*rl1, tbe American
I Minister, to day notified the leaders of
i the rebcls hold.Bg Santo Dominj-o that.
I unless the city was evacuated by Sun
l day niorninj-; it would be taken by force
hy American marinrs.
Diplomatic and consular representa
1 tives hrrr- have born given notitication
t Ifl Ct
REVERSES JUDGMENT
AGAINST CARUSO
Court Holds Chauffeur's Oral
Contract Unenforceable.
>iir>ro ( arur-o, the tcnor, will b?
pleaied to learn that. hr has been ab
tolrei ftrois the payment of |87S, f0"
'which amount Vittorio Francn. his for
mur rhatifeur. obtained a verdlct ln
tha Municipal ("ourt. Thr Apprllat
r.f thc f-uprem'" rour* r<
tvp tower court yesterdav on the ap
:" Csru o and distnissH thc ca*-.
Franco aaid he had an oral contract
with thr t-inper. made ia Febmary.
unr.'cr which he was re-engaged
as chauffeur from October. 1915, to
April. Ifl*'- Justice Cohalan writing
the opinion of the Appellate Term said
that the oral contract, being for less
than a year, was not enforceable. The
deeiaioa said that the ju-tice of the
Municipal Court erred when he heid
that the new contract was merely an
extensian of the one made tn Febm?
ary, li*16.
PREPAREDNESS FAN
UNPREPARED FOR DIPS
Rcpresentative from West Loses
$500 Watching Parade.
James Sanford Davenport, Represen
tative from Oklohoma. received a rein
forced lesaon in preparednes*. yester?
day. He revtewed the preparedness
parade from the stand on Fifth Ave
Being a preparr-dness advocate, he
-,-ai the rmbodimrnt of enthusiasm.
His BBtbaaiaSBl begot n heartv app-'
Reluetantly hc left the -tand to
? re'taurant When he went to
T.av the check he discovered his wall't,
eoateteteg M?0, had disappeare.i.
By Sevens
? \ll Rood things come by threes." runs thr old Urr
man provrr... We don't quite agrer?good things often
i ohm by sevens. For instancr, in rhe bunday 1 nbune
liere is what you get:
P.rt I-The M.ib P-"l m-Witofisl. Pn. VI The Greph.c
rari i | h e r.1 ? , n Seefion (two .eclioni
f:::T"n' ? piITiv-d,..., of8b,gp.ge.e..h).
?i.8"' BBBS-C- Parl VII Comic S-p
Pirl V -The Tribune plemml.
BaaflBsasfl.
Whirh of the seven good things do you choose first)
lirn lo it now. hrfore some other member of thr family
*|
Chc JSimftay iTribune
lirst to Last?taa Trotb: Stws?Edltorlalt?Auvertltomeota.
rer ot the Audlt _Sur__.u of Cir._Jat.ona.
LIMBERG DIES
IN AUTO RACE
AT SHEEPSHEAD
Assistant S iccumbed
in Hospital asCar
Burns on Track.
RIVALSSPEEDON;
DODGE WRECKAGE
Driver of Yellow Dela^c
Was Leading in Contest
for Classic Trophy.
Ihr hlowout of a rear tire on the
huge yellow Delage car Ifl the ftf*
trcnth lap <>f tba Metropolitan Tro?
phy Race at t-heepshead Hay Bpsadwa**
yesterday hurled the car againat the
upper raii of a turn, throwing thc drr.cr
(arl I.imberg, and his mechanician,
Roxey Pallotti, tifty feet out of thc
grounds. I.emberg was killed instant
! ly and Pallotti died just as he rcaehed
the * nti.y Island Hospital.
The car broke into two parts, whuh
' rolled to the bo'tntn of the inrline
I and burr-t into flames. Timberj* was
leadir-g at the time, nnd Dario Re?ta
i- a Peugeot w'as rlo?? b-hind. Ra ta
1 swerved to the in'tde |aat in time to
avoid a crash with the wrecked car.
Jules Devigne, in another Delape,
: aeeaaed to ahid within a frw inchei
of the flaming wreck as hr turned m
an attempt to check the speed of hia
car.
25,000 See Fatal Daah.
The raeers were travclling at 101
, miles an hour when the accident oc
curred. I.imberg was just rounding
l the north turn hlgh up on the bank,
when his car scrmed to waver slightly.
In another Instant the driver nnd BBe*
chanician went hurtling through thr
' air out of sight of the erowd of 25,000.
There wa6 no check in the speed of
the others. A moment Iater they mata
whirling past the flaming <_.r, taking
i thc turn high up to avoid the blindin^
i smoke and the blaze. which wa* ho
\ ginning to eat into the wooden tracK
' Thc field ambulance, with Dr. Bernard
Wetss, dashed to the spot.
I>r Weiss made an attempt to climb
1 up the s'.ippery lnclinc. Just as be
rrached the track he lost his footing
and rolled down between the sr>>?? I _
cars of Rasta and Devijnie. Nationa
gaardatnefl began ta fight tha
44 ith hand extinguishers. Put the rucc
weat on . . , ? ,
Oataide thc track I.imberg lay with
b;S neck broken. Pallotti wa*, teiribly
mjured. but he wa? still liviflg when
pr. V. '?? Hurke reached him. Tl l f
urre lyiag flnse together on the tarf,
doubled mto gr<''' tiaaa Lin.
berg's arni* were evtend.'d and his
i elenched ?- thengb I ?? wars Btill
ng th" .*? ? al.
Wife's Scream Wama l"ro-d.
The tragedy came juat as the erowd
began to settle back into the seats for
a long wait. The perfoctly tuned
pieces of mechaniam were g-liding
smoothly around the huge wooden sau
|cfr Somehow a little fox terner
Bhpped through a gate and trotted un
concernedly across the track a few
ytrds ahead of I.imberg. Starter V> ag
ner ran after the dog and slipped on
the oilv planks. There was aome
chuckling.
Interest for the moment waa fo
(us-^ed om the doj:. when a woman
screamed in the grandstand It uas
I.imbergs jroUBg wife. *>h*> had been
watching her husband'B car anxiously.
The erowd looked to the north turn ,
and saw two little whirling apecka .
againat the clear sky. The yellow cai
PARADE PASSIXG REVIEWING STAND.
..??? ? . righl salute for Ifayor Mitchel and oflkUl
| r ,
?
'BE READY; MESSAGE SENT
BY TRAMP OF 12-HOUR LINE
YESTERDAVS MOVES
FOR PREPAREDNESS
At Washington conferrees
on tlir army bill agreed ou a
regular force of 206,000, on
a federali/rd militia ot 425,
000. They rejected the \ol
untecr reserve scheme
Tlie Atlantic battle flrel it
to hr reorgani/ed. the Navy
Department .mncunced yes?
terday, iri four i-quadrons,
two in aetive temce and Iwo
m reserve. Three mvisioni
of the aetive fleet will be
composed entirely of dread
nouglits.
To pay for tlie ne'.v pre?
paredness measure., tlie Ad
ministration relies on the mu?
nitions tax, income tax and
inhentancr tax.
AGREE ON ARMY
OF 206,000 MEN
Conferrees Decide to Ked
eralize State Militia and
Drop Volunteer Reserve.
[Frnn Th, Tr1bun? IV.'-a
Washington, May 13. House and
Senate conferrees to-day aRr.eed Bfl a
[ bill providing for an army of KSfiOO
men in time of p?aee and capablc of
being expanded in time of war to
..54,000. They agreed on a federalired
national guard of 425,000 as a reserve
; force, but rejected the volunteer army
scheme.
The compromise is a victorv for the
preparedness advoeatea, in lhat the
' measure prnvides ttftot more men t'nar.
thc House bill provided, and a defeat,
in that the militia advoeatea raCf
in ellminatiiK. the volunteer reserve.
Thfl etanding army of 206,000 _a?
will include 5.723 Philiopine Sceuts,
1,401 men in the quartermaster's de?
partment. 7,290 in the medical ttttt,
' 3^387 in the signal corps, and approxi
'? mately 8,750 unassigncd recruits, a
total of IMM mer.
. hfl bill probably will be passed hv
| both Houses without change, aa the
group of advoeatea of a larger army is
too small to overeome the pacitist
majority, aspecially in the House of
Rcpre-enUtives. The measure will be
reported to Congresa early i.c-xt weelc.
mn Kncourage Kecruiting.
lt is believed by fnervi.; of the bill
'that recruiting will ba enormously en
couraged by the vocational train.nz
. provision. inserted in the bill by Sena- ?
Itor Hoke Smith. of Georgia, and as->
' .ented to by the House conferrees. The
' Senate enlistment plan of two years
! with the colon and three yeara in re
Iflflrvfl. aa contraited with tha House
I prorlaion of four yean with tha colors
'and threa yeara ln reserve, waf modi
jfied to threa yeara with the colora and
four years Ifl reserve.
It ii provided. however, that lf en
listed men sa'isfy their officer. as to
Coiitlaaed on j>__?e t. eolamn ?
r%irFr>ri om moint Hlim V. c.
Information reflardlnt piat.ee for -ummer
i ?ra?n Ln C 4 Forota In Ncrtl. CaroUna,
B^^aateSK *& ^aaZ^SL
Million Cheer City's Oreatest
Parade, Capitalist and Clerk
Shoulder to Shoulder.
200 PREPAREDNPSS PLEAS
REVIEWED EACH M1NUTE
Thousands of Women in Line as Day
Eades?General Wood Beams
on Citizen Army.
A certain o!d gentlem.an who .still affccts the knrr breechi-S
of 1664, but who nevertheless has managed to escape suspicion
of being behind the times. .'upped his hands toward Washington
yesterday and shouted a bit of advice to an eminent. kinsman.
"Roll up your .slceves, Uncle Sam !" was the jrist of it. "Be
ready!"
Tt was Kather Knickerbocker who spoke. and his voice was
the voice of six millionaS. On thn wings of such a patriotic
demonstration as New York has never known before the mcs
sago went forward?a combined plea and demand for pre
paredness that showed exactly where the nation's greatest city
stands on the question of national defpnce.
Parade Outlasts Daylight.
A parade that was limited in its length only by the length
of the day ynfolded it.self past the reviewing stand at Twenty
tifth .Street and Fifth Avenue from morning until long after
darkness had fallen. How many were in the line can only be
estimated. but the lowest of the offieial estimates puts the num?
ber at 137.000.
Of this great multitude of marchers only 10,000 were in
uniform. The.se were men of the infantry and cavalry and
artillery forces of the Commonwealth of New York. The other
thousands who preceded ihe national guard division were of
President Wilson's "citizen soldiery," but lacking that train?
ing in the u.se of arms which is the President's ideal.
Between the citizen soldiers and the soldier citizens marehed
a brigade of women, with Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt, jr., at their
head and Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt, sr., in the ranks. Some were
working women, .some women of society; some were married,
some were single. But they were one in their willingneis to
pledge their husbands, their sweethearts. their brothers, their
sons hom and unbom to the preparedness cause.
Flfth Avenue and the other thoroughfare.s they traversed have seen
cther parades?quite a few. They have seon gold braid and epaulata,
gleaming hayonct and flashing sword; ail the glittering and gorgeoui
panoply in which the War God cloaks birmHf. Their asphalt haa crea.>-d
under the wheel of grim caisson and splendid float.
Simplicity in Tremendous Plea.
But the tremendous simplicity of a ?-ity on the marrh in the rlothea
it work- in, of the interminable line and hne of derbioa. fedoras, caps and
:-traw.c, of biue suits, l rown suits, bla*k suit.s pepper and salt suits, dis
counted the pomp of a!l those processions that had gone before.
They were marching, aa on some other day and in aome other garb
they may march to face an enemy, for the protection of their home*.
They were the great unarmed, calling inartii-ulate'y for an adequati
army and navy which may wall America with steel.
F.very trade and every profession, every art and every business wa.
represented, and every degree of *Jiem. The general practitioner of tha
East Side -wung along shoulder to shoulder wtth tha frock-coatad spe
eialist of Fifth Avenue.
Doctors from the German Hospital and surgeons from thc Fren.n
Hospital buried the European hatchet as a common patriotism for tfbl
new land drew them together. The coffe': merchant kept step with his
t'UMnes-a rival's office boy.
k was a parade that would have done credit to a year of drilling and
preparation, yet the great majority of those who marehed had never don >
more than walk sbout their daily crrsnds before. That tha idea nf
-J
