? ? - ? 4 ? ?*???> /
r? =n If /%/ If WEATHER. ||
LOOK FOR THE I A A. ^ f * A AA A^ AI iA,A A V r>-?"%A,AAJ 1
???????- A R/m A^A W'^B'^Bf TT^B'^^B ' Temperature for houra
PLAXOGRAVURE I I y|||7 >SE I I II 1 1 AM 1 I 5"S I AI I SWMJMJK iSEtfWS
i section cT^ J ^9iil UivVij ^P/Vvvv 1 ^r i
No. :?Si'.-No. 20.318. WASHINGTON, D. C., SUNDAY MORNING, MAY 14, 1916* FIVE CENTS.
PLANS NEW SYSTEM
OF COMPENSATION
McGillicuddy Bill. Before the
House. Affects 400.000
Federal Employes.
?
MEASURE JUST REPORTED
BY JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
Proposed Law Covers Disability From
Accidents or Illness Due to
Government Service.
Every civil employe of the United
States government is* affected by the
McGillicuddy bill as it has just been
reported to the House, arranging a
system of compensation for accidents,
disabilities and diseases arising from
occupation in the government service.
The report, written by Representative
Warren Gard of Ohio, states that while
existing law covers only about 100.000
employes, the proposed law will take
into its jurisdiction approximately 400.000
men and women, including the employes
of the J'anama Railroad Company.
"The protection of the life and health
of employes against injury sustained
while in the performance >f duty is
today recognized as one ot the very
vital principles in the scheme of government."
says Representative Gard in
h s report.
The McGillicuddy bill as reported re.
duces the breach made to exist be
i v\ ?*i-n two classes or government employment.
The present law provides
n compensation to the injured employe
provided he was engraved in a hazardous
occupation. The judiciary committee.
iti reporting the new bill, proceeded
on the theory that if an employe
is injured in the performance of his
dut\ he is entitled to compensation regardless
of his salary.
Scope of the Measure.
The extension of the law to cover
the entire working force of the government
will not increase the government
expenditures by four, as it is
pointed out that the branches of federal
Employment to be included under the
compensation system by the McGillicuddy
bill are those in which accidents
occur with the least frequency.
The amount of compensation offered
under the bill is fixed as follows:
Total disability, 66 2-3 per cent of
the monthly pay during the continuance
of the disability, not to exceed
$66.67 a month and not less than
$33 33, unless the employe is paid less
than $33.33, in which case he will receive
full pay.
Partial disability, 66 2-3 per cent of
the difference between the monthly pay
at the time of the injury and the
monthly wage earning capacity after
the beginning of the partial disability,;
not to exeeed $66.67 a month. If the
' employe refuses to seek suitable work
or refuses to work after suitable work
is furnished to or secured for him by
the United compensation shall
cease.
The compensation under the existing
law is full pay for a maximum period
of a year. After that, no matter how
badly disabled he is. the compensation
slops. The Ga'rd report takes the viewthat
full compensation is unwise, because
it has a tendency to induce loafing*
"It is equally obvious that to
stop the compensation at the end of
one year, although the disability is
still continuing, is highly unjust."
Provides Medical Attendance.
Another point which shows an advance
over the existing workman's
compensation law is the provision for
prompt medical attendance for injured
employes. This has been made a part
of tie McGillicuddy bill for two reason.
? one for the sake of humane
dealing, the other to save the govern;
i nt inonej, "for it is well established
that the expenditure of a small
a . -/unt for prompt medical aid w ill
often prevent a lingering illness, with
the extended compensation pavments
It entails."
The bill provides a series of payments
for the dependent family of the
workman in case of death. To the
widow, if there is no child, the pension
amounts to 'Z'> per cent of monthly
pay. to be continued until death or remarriage
In the case of willows
with children, th<* bill provides additional
payments of 10 per rent for
a?h child, the total not to exceed f,r, 'J-3
per < ent of the workman's monthly
wages To the children, if th'-re is no
widow, the bill provides a pension of
per cent for one child and an additional
1^ per cent for otliei children,
not to exceed a total of 3-3 p?-r cent.
Compensation for each child ceases at
the age of eighteen, or at marriage if
before that time. In the rase of children
over eighteen incapable of selfsupport.
the pension continues until
the child is able to support himself.
Jther percentages are carried in the
bill to care for other dependent members,
such as parents, brothers, sisters,
etc
Placed Under Commission.
The bill provides for a commission of
three members to be appointed by the
President- The existing law is administered
by the Secretary of Labor.
This change in the administration of
the compensation law Is explained In
the Card report In this way:
'It is a matter concerning the relation
between the government as a
v. hole and its employes as a whole, and
should not be placed under the supervision
of any one department. It
ec-eined especially unwise to place the
administration in the hands of the Department
of Labor, because that department
In large measure represents
and Is intended to represent the side
?f labor, whereas the administrative
body having charge of the proposed act
should represent, and should constantly
l-e alert to safeguard, tne interests of
the government ".
The bill establishes a flve-hundredthousand-dollar
fund for the payment
of the necessary pensions and compensate:
s. and Congress is to provide
additional funds whenever necessary.
It is believed the bill would cost not
or,ore than that in the first year of its
operation as a law.
BULL MOOSE SEND 1.791.
Progressive Convention to Have Big
List of Delegates and Alternates.
CHICAGO, May 13.?Ther? will be
1.791 delegates and alternates at the
national progressive convention to be
held here June 7. it was announced today.
This does not Include nine delegates
authorized from Alaska and
South Dakota, who are yet to be heard
from.
The number of delegates authorized
by the national committee Is 628, but
as the demand from many states for
increased representation has been so
great the delegate body will consist
of l.Olo members.
A
IRISH REBEL TRIALS
NOW BEINGRUSHED
Marked Relaxation in Enforcement
of Martial Law
I in Dublin.
PREMIER ASQUITH STILL
HOLDING CONFERENCES
Secrecy Enshrouds Decisions That
: May Have Been Beached?Snipers
Fire Few Shots.
i
DUBLIN". May 13.?Premier Asquith
?*ontinued today his conferences with
i authorities here who are in the closest
i touch with the course of events in
j connection with the recent rebellion.
; \*o definite information became avail!
able, however, as to any decisions that
may have been reached.
The trials of the few remaining: men
j accused the rebel ringleaders who are
; to be dealt with in Dublin are being
. nrni*or>il#wl with panidlt* hv tho ?>nnrlo
j martial.
| A marked relaxation in the enforcei
ment of martial law in Dublin has been
j observed since the arrival of Premier
Asquith. An order issued today permits
the people to be on the streets until
midnight and as early as 4 o'clock in
the morning, giving them many more
hours of freedom at night. This concession
is generally attributed to a suggestion
from Mr. Asquith.
Gen. Maxwell, commanding the British
forces in Ireland, today issued a proclai
mation forbidding all parades and poj
litk-al or athletic meetings in Ireland
j without written police authority.
Prominent Men Acquitted.
I It has been learned from the adjutant
general that several prominent men
: accused of complicity in the rebellion ;
were acquitted by military judges because
direct evidence of such complicity
was not produced, although the cir- I
cumstantial testimony is declared to j
have been of the strongest character, j
Despite the fact that the courtsmartial
are closed to both press and
public, the adjutant general pointed out
that the proceedings of the courts were
public property, as all the documents
and evidence are sent to the judge advocate
general for examination and
should the fact warrant such a procedure
sentences may be quashed or
revised even after the commanding general
has confirmed them. Naturally, he
said, this could not be effective when
a death sentence was carried out. but
in virtually every instance so far. he
declared, the prisoners sentenced to
capital punishment had admitted their
guilt.
Officer to Be Tried.
There was no desire on the part of
the military, the adjutant general said,
'to screen the proceedings of the courts
from public view, and the military authorities
felt entirely assured that their
acts would bear the closest scrutiny.
Some cases may ha,ve arisen, he admitted,
where military officers of junior
rank had exceeded their powers, and
these cases were undergoing investigation,
especially the case of the death !
of F. Sheehy Skeffington. The officer
connected with this case was immediately
placed under arrest by Gen. Maxwell,
commanding the British forces,
the adjutant general added, with a
view to the officer's trial by court-martial
in the event that the facts justified
su'-h a procedure.
'Snipers last night fired a few; shots
in the neighborhood of Broadstone station.
a suburb of Dublin. Otherwise
there were no incidents. Looters ar|
rested during the recent rising are bej
irig tried in batches daily by civil magistrates.
Dozens of them have been
sentenced to fines or short terms of
imprisonment.
Idea Meets With Favor.
The suggestion, unofficially circulated,
I regarding the possibility of the form a|
tion of an Irish executive council for
j tlje management of the government of,
Ireland until the end of the war ap- ,
pears to have made a good impression j
I in Ireland. There has been much disj
Mission of the subject in all'quarters,
i but no ronflrmatIon of such a move has
I been given by officials. A relief to the
j tension in Ireland occurred, too, when
| < Jen. Maxwell, commander of the Brit-!
' ish forces. publicly reviewed and
thanked the auxiliary troops who
fought for the government against the
rebels. Lady Wimborne, wife of the j
former lord lieutenant, arid Premier
jAstuith accompanied fieri. Maxwell at
! the review. The premier declined to re:
sponci to enthusiastic calls for a speech.
Expression of Gratitude.
! fien. Maxwell's address was an expresslon
of gratitude to the Officers'
Training Corps, which held Trinity College
and guarded the Bank of Ireland,
both 'of which might have become
strong positions for the rebels; to the
Veterans' Corps, which lost many men
when the rebels attacked them Easter
Monday when they marched unarmed
I; :uto Publin. and to the drivers and attendants
on the ambulances who
worked night and day succoring solfliers.
civilians and rebels, without discrimination.
He also praised the nurses,
doctors, postmen, policemen and telegraphers
who. he said, "most nobly responded
to the call of duty and performed
many acts of great heroism.
"It is a great satisfaction," he continued,
"to know that in times like
those which we have gone through
there are so many on whom we can
rely absolutely."
NCN-STOP FLIGHT FAILS.
Engine Trouble Ends Rinehardt's
Georgia-New York Trip.
him n i i, i-*. v , iviay 13.?
Howard Rinehardt, who left Augusta,
Oa.. this morning in a biplane in an effort
to make a non-stop flight to Hempstead,
L?. I . descended at 8:30 a.m. near
Rowland, N. C., because of engine
trouble, according to a message received
here. The machine struck the
ground heavily and one plane was
damaged. Rinehardt, it was said, was
unhurt.
Clara Louise Kellogg Dies.
NEW HARTFORD. Conn.. May 13.?
Clara Louise Kellogg, a prima donna of
the American operatic stage before her
marriage to Carl Strakosch. In 1887,
died at her home, Elpstone, this noon,
after a year's Illness.
ALL GUESSES IDLE
ON G.O. P. CONTEST
With Convention Three Weeks
Away, Party Leaders Still
Are at Sea.
ADVANCE SLATE UNLIKELY;
VERDICT WITH DELEGATES
Agreement General That Col. Roosevelt's
Voice Will Be Potent
in Decision.
?
Three weeks from next Wednesday
the republican national convention
will assemble in Chicago to nominate
j a presidential ticket. No man in the
leadership or high councils of the re|
publican party can say today who will
! he the successful candidate or who has
j a commanding lead in the contest
1 among the dozen or more avowed suggested
candidates.
There are instructed delegates for
some of them; uninstructed but supposedly
favorable delegates for sev!
eral and "sentiment" as yet uncrystallized.
for others. The uninstructed
delegates hold the balance of power
in the convention. The favor of
| Theodore Roosevelt is expected to be a
j factor of great weight in the final determination.
and nobody can foretell
I his choice.
Advance Slate Improbable.
It is not considered probable that a
eiate can oe maae up in auvancc ui j
j the convention or an agreement reach- i
j ed upon any candidate until the great '
body of uninstructed delegates are
consulted and the leaders canvass the
qualifications of the respective candidates.
j Messrs. Weeks, Burton, Cummins,
I Fairbanks and Root will go into the
convention with the greater number
of instructed delegates. Justice Hughes
j is expected to show important strength
in the uninstructed delegations, although
he is not a declared candidate
1 and it is not known to a certainty that
he would accept if nominated.
His friends^ feel that they are at a
! disadvantage in this situation of in|
determination, but are relying upon
the undercurrent of "Hughes sentiment"
to sweep him into the lead at
the outset and in the end nominate
him. The friends of the avowed candidates
make no concealment of their
apprehension of the strength embodied
in this, as yet submerged, sentiment.
Early Nomination Expected.
The best judgment of some of the
leaders is that there ill not be a prolonged
deadlock. They say that if Mr.
Hughes is not nominated early in the
balloting it behooves them to decide
I quickly upon a candi4jite. for, in their
opinion, a deadlock would enhance the
chances of an attempted stampede to
j Roosevelt.
| It is said that each of the avowed
candidates realizes that he will have
no clear field until Mr. Justice Hughes
is eliminated from the lead in the vot!
ing. The movement in behalf of the
'nomination of Justice Hughes is not
organized and has no recognized leader.
It rests upon the latent belief obtaining
in many sections of the country
| that Mr. Hughes "would be a winner
at the polls."
I In the ranks of the "favorite son"
'candidates are known to be many delegates
who will flock to Mr. Hughes as
1 soon as the chances of their own hero
j get below par. The first efforts of the
| "field," a word coined to describe the
avowed candidates fighting for their
jown hand against the Hughes "sentiment"
will be to hold their ranks intact
and through their combined
strength prevent Mr. Hughes' name
from receiving a majority. How long
they can continue to do this after the
second ballot, no one now ventures to
predict.
Roosevelt Not Gaining.
na?t week hrouirht no develon
ments indicating that Col. Roosevelt
was gaining strength as a prospective
candidate. Work is being done for him,
publicity through extensive advertising
being a notable feature, but it must
be borne iti mind that 800 of the 985
delegates have already been chosen.
Out of that number the most liberal
estimate concedes less than 100
straight-out Roosevelt delegates and
some estimates run as low as 65. A
stampede to Roosevelt is believed to be
out of the question, unless possibly as
result of a prolonged deadlock.
In the opinion of some of the big men
in the republican leadership the only
way in which the colonel could be
nominated would be through the deliberate
judgment of practically the
unanimous leadership of the republican
party that his nomination was the only
way out of difficulties at this time unforeseen.
One of the developments of the last
week was an increase in the Fairbanks
talk. His stock went up on reports that
Col. Roosevelt was inclined to regard
him with favor. Another incident of
the week was a spurt in the Root
boom. Despite denials to the contrary,
the feeling is said to be strong among
the rank and file that the efforts in behalf
of Mr. Root are in effect, whether
by design or not, calculated to be adverse
to the plans of Mr. Justice
Hughes' supporters.
Harding May Hold Chair.
There Is said to be a plan under consideration
to make the temporary organization
of the convention permanent.
leaving- Senator Harding to wield
the gavel throughout the convention.
The suggestors claim that this would
avoid friction over selection of the permanent
chairman, call for only one
keynote speech and otherwise make for
orderly procedure
Senator Lodge, it is understood, is to
be chairman of the committee to prepare
the platform and Senator Borah is
to b^ vice chairman and his right-hand
man. This combination of old guard and
progressive thought is expected to result
in a platform acceptable to both
wings of the party.
Already there is talk of the scope and
nature of the platform. It seems to be
pretty well understood that the extreme
high protective tariff men will
be made to sing low in the committee
on resolutions. Strong pressure is coming
from the middle west against harping
on the old high tariff string. It is
Iciaimeu iiuti ine country is nor od- I
sessed on the subject. Mills are work- I
ins overtime, wages are being Increased I
on every .hand,, common labor is com
democrat
bulletin board i
president wils||&.
will BE the oni^|jeffl|^ jj
name presentep^hm
lo the convehttowj^hb
at~ sr lswii
manding wa?es never before dreamed
of. and it is claimed that the people
will not respond to calamity howls or
a cry of "wolf" on the tariff question.
It is said that a demand will be made,
and which will have fhe sympathy of
Senator Lodge and Senator Borah, that
"a red blood American" platform be
adopted; a call for preparedness, an
appeal to patriotism and all that sort of
thing, to overshadow tariff agitation.
Plans of Weeks' Managers.
The managers of the John W. Weeks
campaign will open headquarters in j
Chicago May 25. They expressed them-j
selves as deeply gratified yesterday.
over the success of a number of their
state managers In the west In securing]
election as delegates to the Chicago j
convention. Senator Weeks is himself
a delegate at large from Massachusetts;
O. E. Weller of Baltimore, who
has his campaign in charge, was elected
a delegate at large from Maryland
last Tuesday; George H. Moses of New
Hampshire, who has taken- an active
part in the Weeks campaign, is a delegate
at large from the Granite state,
and. together with the western managers
who have also been named as:
delegates, the Weeks forces claim to be
assured of every facility for effective
floor management in the convention,
which will be such an important factor
this year in the selection of the republican
nominee.
Discussing the situation as regards
th*? ranrlirlarv of Kpnatnr Mr
Weller said last evening:
"We expect Senator Weeks to enter
the republican national convention at
Chicago next month with practically
one-half of the number of delegates
necessary for a nomination, and it must
be generally conceded that any candidate
who can make this formidable
showing on the first ballot is a genuine
presidential possibility.
"This support, which will come from
every section of the country, will be
dependable and loyal and will continue
to vote for Senator Weeks until it has
convinced the convention that our candidate
appeals very strongly to the east
and west alike, and that he is the man
who can lead the party to victory.
When the convention comes to this
realization Senator Weeks will be nominated."
Sherman Boom in the East.
The boom of Senator Sherman of Illinois
is to invade the east. Two of his
managers, Walter A. Rosenfleld of
Rock Island and Kdward J. Brundage
of Chicago, will visit New York this
week to inform the eastern republicans
that the Sherman candidacy is a live
wire. Representative William B. McKinley
of Illinois also is working for
Sherman with delegations from the
eastern states.
The past week presented no material
changes in the estimates of campaign
managers over the vflgures of a week
ago. This week Pennsylvania and
Oregon will choose delegates by
primaries, and much interest attaches
to the outcome in those states.
Burton Managers Cheerful.
In the F^urton camp there is expressed
satisfaction over recent results. The
Burton managers confidently claim to
have lately gathered from twenty to
thirty additional votes as the result of
the selection of delegates in the far
western states. Besides this, they assert
that there has been a distinct
strengthening of the interest in Senator
Burton's candidacy. Predictions by
Mr. Burton s supporters that he will
eventually be the nominee are rapidly
increasing.
In this connection they mention a poll
which has just been made public, conducted
by the Lawyer and Banker, a
maganize published in New Orleans, a j
locality which may be assumed to be ,
quite unprejudiced in relation to republican
politics. This poll was taken
among members of the legislature,
mayors of cities and leading lawyers
and bankers, and is said to have been
very comprehensive. The leading candidates
were Burton, 467; Hughes, 381;
Hoot. 368, on first choice. On second
choice Burton received 702 votes, more
than double that of any other candidate.
HEABT DISEASE IS FATAL.
Bryan Lathrop Dies Suddenly in
Chicago, Aged 72 Years.
CHICAGO, May 13.?Bryan Lathrop,
widely known for his commercial and
~l?1 oxtlviHoc c.lrtrtanl.r
of heart disease. He was a brotherin-law
of Thomas Nelson Page, ambassador
to Italy.
Mr. Lathrop was born In Alexandria.
Va.. In 1844*
^LOOKING FOR SENSATION
IN RIGGS BANK TRIAL
Local Attorneys and Financiers
Eagerly Await Opening of
Proceedings Tomorrow.
.. I
Washington attorneys and prominent
financiers interested in the trial of
officials of the Riggs National Bank
on indictments for perjury are eagerly
awaiting a promised sensation at the
opeping of court tomorrow morning,
when taking of testimony is to begin.
With the reading of the affidavit
signed by Charles C. Glover, president;
William J. Flather, a vice president,
and Henry H. Flather, former cashier j
of the bank, which is the basis for the
joint and individual indictments on
which these officials are on trial, tne
government is expected to close its
presentation of documents showing juris- 1
diction.
Challenged by Defense.
Challenge by William G. Johnson,
for the defense, on two occasions when
the prosecution has brought this affl
davit before the court, indicates that
strong objection is going to be made
on the ground that it was not properly
filed with the clerk of the court i
and has not been safeguarded by him.
Prominent attorneys, qualified to
know, state that this document was
kept in the custody of United States
Attorney I^askey, locked in his safe as
a greater protection. They say he was
in the court at the time this affidavit
was first brought in. and it was such
an important document he immediately
took charge of It and has kept it in
his safe ever since.
Members of the jury in the case, who
are enjoying an unusual distinction in
being locked up, are also enjoying an
unusual privilege in being allowed to
see members of their families only under
the surveillance of a bailiff and
then for a limited time.
Jurymen to Dine at an Inn.
The jury will be taken in automo- 1
biles today to an inn on Park road for
dinner, and will later be conducted
on a hike through Rock Creek Park.
They are locked up each night in a
room in the courthouse and have most
of their meals at a nearby dairy
lunchroom. Several of them have remarked
that they feel as if they are
in a chain gang. The bailiffs in whose
custody thev are have been doing all
they can for the amusement, recreation
and to keep them in good physical
condition.
wnt OIDDATU DDCII/CDC
I1UI drtUUttlll UI\LMf\LI\0
Friendship < Heights Residents
Freed by Court in Presence of Big
Assemblage of Neighbors.
Special Correspondence of The Slar.
KOCKVILLE. Md.. May 13.?A large
part of the population of Friendship
Heights attended, as witnesses or spectators,
the trials In the police court
here today of Henry Latterner and
Samuel D. Shepherd, prominent residents
of that village, on warrants
charging them with violating the law
prohibiting the performance of unnecessary
manual labor on the Sabbath.
The complainant was Mrs. Leonora
C. Hill, also of Friendship Heights, who
represented that the defendants, who
are her near neighbors, were guilty of
having performed such laborious work
as trimming trees, raking up and burning
rubbish, etc., on their premises on
recent Sundays.
Mrs. Hill testified that Latterner had
violated the law in the manner stated
Sunday. March 26, and that Shepherd>
had been guilty of a similar infraction
of the law Sunday, April 2.
Mistake Is Admitted.
Latterner swore that he had not performed
unnecessary manual labor of
I
|]~7 J
?- ?^"3*
Rf PUBUCAM
^f^llll BUULETIH board
' IT IS DIFFICULT TO
S??SS??^i??: SAT WHO 1.1 86 Tnt
NOMiHEC AT
CMlCAfirO
- :-MB? Frienos OF HuOHii,
L.',. .^FHi eoRTow, EA>R.0?HKS.
^CUMMl^
any kind on Sunday since January 30,
and explained that he had been arrested
for what he did on that day.
Mrs. Hill then admitted that she had
made a mistake in the day she had
noticed Datterner at work, and, at the
suggestion of State's Attorney Albert
Bouic, Judge J. Alby Henderson, before
whom the cases were tried, adjudged
Latterner not guilty.
Shepherd denied that he had been
guilty of anything more serious in the
way of working on Sunday, April 2.
than to pick up a few pieces of paper
and burn them. Judge Henderson did
not consider that a very serious matter
and acquitted him, too.
Latterner was represented fry Thomas
Dawson of Rockville and Shepherd
by Emory H. Bogley of Washington.
REBELS (MS. ORDER
AltlPriffln F.nvftv "Rocmnrirlc in TIa.
?VJ UVB|/VUUg nv w
mand of Dominican Delegation.
Ready to Use Force.
SANTO DOMINGO. Dominican Republic,
May 13.?W. W. Russell, the American
minister, today -notified the leaders
of the rebels holding: Santo Domingo
t'ity that unless the city was evacuated
by Sunday morning it would be
taken by force. Diplomatic and consular
representatives ^iere have been
given notification to this effect.
A delegation of congressmen had
visited the American minister last
night and informed him that congress
could exercise no authority so long as
the rebel leaders were permitted to remain
in the country. Mr. Russell was
aHked to bring about the expulsion of
the rebel leaders.
ASKS FOR DURABLE PEACE.
American Branch Organization to
Consider Netherlands Appedr
NEW* ^ ORK, \JVlay 13.?A conference
of the American branch of the central
organization for durable peace was
called today to meet here Tuesday to
consider the appeal which the Netherlands
anti-war council cabled to this
country recently, urging that American
peace societies suggest to President
Wilson that he promote a conterence
of neutral nations to offer
mediation.
The object of the meeting will be to
decide whether those present believe
there is a basis for rumors abroad
that the belligerent nations are ready
to talk peace. If the conferees decide
in the affirmative, it was announced, a
call will be sent out to various American
peace societies for a conference
at which the suggestion will be made 1
that President Wilson be urged to respond
to the appeal from the Netherlands.
'
SIOUX INDIANS CITIZENS.
Secretary Lane Confers Rights on
170 at Yankton Reservation.
GREENWOOD, S. D., Indian Agency,
May 13.?Franklin K. Lane. Secretary
of the Interior, today granted full citizenship
rights to 170 residents of the
Yankton Sioux reservation.
Mr. Lane made an address in -which
he urged the red men to appreciate
the responsibility of citizenship. Title '
to 30,000 acres of land, which has been
held in trust for the Indians, was
transferred to them. The ceremony j
was full of color, many of the Indians
appearing in the traditional dress of 1
the tribe.
WILL VISIT WASHINGTON.
1
Spanish Umpire in Panama Zone i
Claims Cases Sails for U. S.
PANAMA. May 13.?Vice Admiral '
rnnnas v Palau, the umpire appointed
by King Alfonso of Spain in connec- <
tion with the expropriation of Panama !
Canal Zone land by the United States,
has sailed for the United States, where
he is due to arrive May 17. The admiral
will visit Secretary of State Lansing
and the Spanish ambassador at
Washington.
Up to the present the admiral has 1
heard twenty-one cases involving more 1
than $1,000,000, and will adjudicate six- i
teen more. 1
BITTER CONFLICTS
GO ON NEARVERDUN
Belligerents Launch Thrusts
Against Opponents at Various
Points.
FRENCH AND GERMANS
BOTH CLAIM SUCCESS
Paris Chronicles Great Aero Raid on
Enemy Railway Stations.
British Attacked.
IjONDON, May 13.?Desperate fighting
is proceeding almost continuously
before Verdun, both the Germans and
the French launching thrusts at various
points against the opposing lines.
Claims to any pronounced advantage
in this fighting are put forth by neither
Paris nor Berlin, each side declaring
that attacks by the other have been
repulsed.
The principal efforts of the Germans
appear to have been exerted near Fort
Douaumont, where successive assaults
were directed at the French defenses.
All were repulsed, Paris declares.
On their own account the French
claim to have made some progress in
the vicinity of Hill 287, northwest of
Verdun, while Berlin asserts that a
French .attack southwest of Dead Man
hill in this region was repulsed and
that assaults on the German line? in
the Avocourt and Alalancourt woods,
to the southwest, were fruitless.
French Official Beport.
The following official communication
was issued by the war office tonight:
"In Champagne there was quite intense
activity of the artillery of both
sides in the regions of Prosnes and St.
Hilaire L.e Grand.
"On the left bank of the Meuse the
bombardment diminished in intensity
in the course of the day. We repulsed
an attack against our positions to the
west of Hill 304. On the slope northeast
of Le Mort Homme an attempt at
a sudden attack by the enemy completely
failed.
"On the right bank and in the Woevre
the day was relatively calm.
"There is no event to report on the
rest of the front except the usual cannonading.
"Aviation: Last night one of our
squadrons, composed of ten aeroplanes.
dropped forty-three shells on
the railway stations at Nantillois and
Brieulles. and on bivouacs in the
regions of Mbntfaucon and Romagne.
The same night one of our aeroplanes
dropped eleven shells on the dirigibles*
hangar at Metz-Frescati."
Belgian communication: "The day
was calm on the Belgian front. Some
artillery actions occurred in the region
to the north^ of Steenstraete."
Germans Attack British.
The British official communication on
the campaign in the western zone,
issued tonight, reads:
"After a heavy bombardment last
night against our trenches between the
River Somme and Maricourt the enemy
made three attacks, one of which sue
ceeded in getting into our trenches,
but was at once driven out. Some
dead Germans were observed on our
wire this morning and one prisoner
was taken. We lost one prisoner.
"On the rest of the front there have
been artillery and trench mortar
actions at various points, the heaviest
firing taking place about Hebuterne,
Souchez, Carency. the Hohenzollern
sector and the area about St. Eloi.
"There has been mining activity on
the part of the enemy near Mauquissait
and northwest of Wytschaete."
RIVERS BILL PROGRESS SLOW.
Senate Adjourns Until Tomorrow
While Measure Is Up.
But little progress was made with
the consideration of the river and harbor
appropriation bill yesterday, the
Senate adjourning e^rlv in the afternoon
until tomorrow. Before adjournment
Senator Clarke of Arkansas,
chairman of the commerce committee,
which has had the bill in charge, arranged
to defer further consideration
of the measure until Tuesday. The
Senate will take up in executive session
tomorrow the nomination of
George Rublce of New Hampshire as
a member of the federal trade commission.
and it is expected that practically
the entire day will be spent on
that nomination. The opponents of
Rublee confidently predict his rejection
by the Senate.
Senator Kenyon concluded his general
discussion of the river and harbor
bill yesterday afternoon, having
spoken almost continuously for the
greater part of four days. He announced
that he would continue his
fight against the bill and would offer
a number of amendments upon which
he would address the Senate.
While republican senators, including
Senator Kenyon. insist that no filibuster
is being carried on against the
bill, it is expected mat it win be many
days before a final vote on the measure
is reached.
THEFTS REPORTED TO POLICE.
Gold Watch. 2-000 Cigarettes and
Bicycles Among Articles Stolen.
George Dolfus, 117 4Vz street, reported
to the police the theft of a gold
watch worth $35. The timepiece, he
said, was taken from his coat pocket,
where it had been deposited, in the
rear of his place of business yesterday
afternoon.
A package containing nearly 2,000
cigarettes, two boxes of chewing gum
and a quantity of smoking tobacco
yesterday disappeared from the wagon
of a wholesale dealer. Harold Stumph,
driver, reported the loss to the police.
William F. Tidings and Peter Bonamy.
the former residing at 2126 H street
northwest and the latter at 901 H i
street northwest, reported the theft of <
their bicycles.
Louis P. Seibold. 1246 Girard street
northwest, told the police of a robbery ?
committed at his residence since April
15. A vanity box and contents, shawl i
ind revolver, valued at $100, were ,
stolen. (
John Kinney. 61 Florida avenue northeast,
reported the theft of t hirty pounds >f
butter from his wagon in front of ]
i20 17th street northwest, ,
1
"Jewish Mark Twain" Dead.
NEW YORK. May 13.?Solomon Rabinowitz,
poet, author and playwright, died
lere today after a long illness. He was
Ifty-seven years old. Scholom Alechem
was his pen name, but he was best 1
mown as the "Jewish Mark Twain." i
ft
CO-OPERATION PLAN
RESULT AT EL PASO
Conference of Obregon and
Scott Ends With Gentlemen's
Agreement.
tiffin iiiiiioTrn rmnrn
wnn mimoicn rtnncu
A WRITTEN PROTOCOL
Believed Verbal Consent Best for
Presence of U. S. Troops After
Bequest for Withdrawal.
Indications reached the War Department
yesterday that the Scott-Obregron
border conferences, although officially
described as having: ended In a deadlock,
actually had resulted In closer cooperation
between the American and
Carranza forces !n Mexico, and there
were intimations that no written
agreement had been drawn up by the
conferees, because they decided more
could be accomplished without one.
Gen. Scott telegraphed that Gen.
Obregon had indicated a fear as to the
effect a formal protocol for continued
presence of American troops on Mexican
soil might have on Mexican public
opinion in view of Gen. Carranza's demand
for withdrawal, presented more
than a month ago. This generally was
accepted here as explaining the failure
of the conferees to go further than an
unwritten gentlemen's agreement as to
methods of co-operation in the campaign
against banditry.
Agreement Being Carried Out.
Evidences that this agreement was being
carried out came yesterday in official
telegrams reporting the movements of
both American and Carranza troops. < len.
Scott telegraphed that he had assurances
from Gen. Obregon that Carranza commanders
had been ordered to campaign
against bandits, both about Parral and
along the Coahuila-Chihuahua border, in
the region of the Big Bend raids Gen.
Pershing reported that, in accordance
with instructions following the border
conferences, he was shortening the American
line of communication and drawing
in his scouting patrols.
Officials here believe that Xamiquipa
soon will be abandoned by Gen. Pershing
as his advance field base. His telegram
yesterday was taken to indicate
early retirement of the head of the American
forces to Colonia Dublan. Gen.
Pershing also reported that there were
no Mexican forces in.his vicinity.
With Cartanza troops advancing toward
the border adjoining the Big Bend
region, reports from Gen. Fufiston indicated
that American operations there
were to attain considerable magnitude.
An entire motor truck company has
been transferred from Columbus to
Marathon, Tex., to form the line between
Marathon, as the base, and Maj.
Langhorne's troopers pursuing the
bandits who raided Boquillas and Glenn
Springs.
Diplomats to Resume Operations.
While co-operative military movements
are proceeding, diplomatic negotiations
for a formal protocol covering
the American expedition are expected
to be resumed this week by Secretary
Lansing and Eliseo Arredondo, Carranza's
ambassador here. Gen. Scott
will return tomorrow from the border
to report to Secretaries Baker and Lansing.
That Gen. Carranza is waiting
for Washington to make the next move
was indicated yesterday by Mr. Arre
dondo ana oy special ageni noaRpr? at
Mexico City. The former said he was
awaiting: instructions and Mr. Rodgers
telegraphed that Gen. Carranza had not
indicated that lie would make immediate
renewal of his demands for withdrawal.
Use of the Mexican railways for
transportation of American soldiers, as
well as supplies, probably will be one
of the principal points urged by the
Ignited States in the negotiations. The
advent of the rainy season in northern
Mexico, impeding motor truck transportation.
emphasizes the need for the
railways, although it was officially
stated last night that every pound of
cavalry forage which has reached Gen.
Pershing since establishment of his
advancerd base had been sent over the
railways through private shippers.
To Restrict Ammunition.
That customs restrictions which have
prevented shipment of ammunition to
Carranza authorities would be continued
while the diplomatic discussions
proceed was also indicated. It was
stated that the policy, which has
stopped all munition shipments across
the border since the American expedition
was launched, had not been
chanced.
Orders issued yesterday permitting
Gen. Pershing to convene general
courts-martial were officially explained
as calculated only to provide a means
of dealing with infractions of military
rules by Pershing's own men. It was
emphasized that the court-martial authority
would not extend to prosecution
of Mexican snipers.
The War Department was without
confirmation last night of new bandit
operations reported in news dispatches
from the border. Renewed activity of
Zapata bandits near Mexico City and
Villa outlaws near Tamaulipas was reported.
however, in consular dispatches.
Unconfirmed private reports to the
State Department contained rumors
that helix Diaz, recently reported to he
fomenting an anti-Carranza revolution
in southern Mexico, had crossed into
Guatemala.
Bandit Band Badly Beaten
by a Carranzista Force
in the Vicinity of Torreon
TORREOX, Max., May 12. via El Paso
Junction. May 13.?The notorious bandit
leader, Pedro Cedillo, who has invested
northern Vera Cruz, two officers
and fifty of his men were killed in an
engagement with government forces
under Gen. Eugenio Lopez at Cuidad del
Malz. Fifty of the bandits surrendered.
Gen. Lopez captured Cuidad del Maiz.
and in further skirmishing killed Pedro
Cedillo's brother, Martin. The fifty captured
bandits will be executed. The
Carranza losses are few.
The battle with the Cedillos is looked
upon as the successful beginning of a
campaign that will clear northern Vera
[Jruz of bandits.
Gen. Nafarrate. now at Tampjco,
wired Gen. Jacinto Trevino here that
he has taken over direction of the
campaign with the exception of the
port of Tuxpam.
Trevino Going: to Chihuahua.
Gen. Trevino, who is commander of
11 ditflsinn r\t tVi* nr\rtVici ct
I HO lumual J Ultioivu v? ?.??? W.vu?vt
in announcing: today he would leave
next Tuesday for Chihuahua City to
Lake command of the campaign to
1
