AIM QUERQUE MORNING J OURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
rjJwTV.SF.VEXTU VEAft.
Sixteen Pages
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Sunday, May 14, 1915.
Sixteen Pages
Dally by Carrier or Mall, Mfc
Month, Single Copte, Be
MIMRYTPK
unmLiii i iiuui u
AFTER BANDITS
ME TO HALT
BELOW BORDER
Major Langhorne Awaits Ar
rival of Superior With Rein
forcements, After Penetrat
ing 50 Miles Into Mexico,
FRIGHTENED PRISONER
IS USED AS GUIDE
American Brings Details of
Second Punitive Expedition;
Says Intention Is Not to Re
main Long.
iar mokkin journal spccim. Linn wimi
Marathon, Tex., May 13. Fifty
miles south of the Mexican border
from Boquillas, Major Langhorne
halted his (huh after the Glenn
Springs and Boquillas raiders tonight
(o await the arrival of Col. Frederick
W, Sibley and three troops of the
Fourteenth cavalry.
Earlier In the day advance scouts
of Major Langhorno's equadroit met
with several Mexican cowboys and
from Information secured from them
learned that tho bandits were con
centrated ubout eighty miles south
ward and numbered over 600. Upon
receipt of this news, Major I-ang-horne
sent a courier to advise Colonel
Sibley, commander of the expedition.
From an authoritative source it was
learned that Colonel Sibley decided to
cross with tho Fourteenth cavalry,
leaving a small garrison at Boquillas,
the sub-buse, and push on with all
speed In the hopo that Major Lang
home would not attack until be ar
rtver. Before fording the P.lo Grande,
Colonel Sibley is said to have
telegraphed General Fuiiston, now
at Sun Antonio, for more troops for
the expedition.
t'apt. John P. Chambers, base
quartermaster here., la rushing food,
forage and gasoline to the columns
l.i.i li.i.i kn'itt. Mvatia.1, an
other section of automobile truckB
will reach here from tho north and
will be put into commission between
Mu rat Hon and Langhorne's troops Im
mediately. Story uf Kxpedition.
Otis Aultman, an American, arrived
THE WEATHER
the wrc.vriiKu forecast.
Denver, May 13. New Mexico:
Sunday, fair In south, unsettled with
probably, rain north portion, cooler;
Monday, fair and cooler.
DEMOCRATS MUST
liOOAJ, WKATHKU ItETORT.
For twenty-four hour ending at
4 p. m. yesterday.
Maximum temperature, 80 degrees
minimum, 44 degrees: range. 36 de
grees; temperature at 6 p .m., 09 d
groes; west wind; partly cloudy.
GO AFTER PEACE
CITI BANK CLEARINGS.
Yesterday
$43,925.10.
Clearing for tlx; Week.
34,807.57.
element to win
DECLARES BRYAN
Pacifists in Republican Party
Should Bo Drawn Upon to
Make Victory Possible. Says
Commoner,
has been begging Major Langhorne to
spare his life, promising to return to
guide the Americans to where his
companions could be found. Alvarez's
offer was accepted and he was taken
along with the column when It enter
ed Mexico Wednesday evening.
Deputy Sheriff James Shoemaker,
of Marathon, arrived here tonight
from HoquiHas, bringing with him un
der a guard of four soldiers, Macarlo
A!varc2 and Keginlo Oarcia, the ban
dits who, guarding seven American
mining men after the Boquillas raid
were in turn made prisoners by their
captives. Shoemaker turned the men
over to the local military authorities.
It is not known as yet what disposl-
II.... n. ; 1 1 C- Mn,lA .L.AtH nnuc
Wi.i .,v Miauc Ul .oco. I MORNIN JOURNAL PReiAL LAo WIRJ
Cavalryman llHapears. Lincoln, Neb., May 13. In a signed
A soldiers of Troop A of the Four- article published today. W. J. Bryan
teenth cavalry. Captain Cole com-j declares the democratic party muit,
manding, whoue name could not be j in order to win the coming campaign,
learned, disappeared from the gar- "moVp toward peace" and thereby
rlson at Olenn Springs Just before thajcap(Uro the peace element in tho re
men were ordered away, and up till j publican party, lie begins his ar
late tonight hail not been found by a (Hole ny quoting from a Chicago news
posse hunting for him. j paper1., editorial In which Mr. Wilson
Direct wire communication with . s called a minority president, in that
Boqulllas and San Vicente is expected , ho received fewer votes than Roose-
to be, in operation early tomorrow velt and Taft combined, and say. the; tnnehn b(.tw(011 ,he ,Uvi.r son
morning. For three days Capt. Her- democrats must face tho fact that a !.,., .,,. t ,.i, i
REFERS TO OPPONENTS'
MAJORITY OF 1,300,000
President Is Urged to Bring
European War to End and
Thus Execute Great Politi
cal Coup,
F
RENCH REPULSE
FOES AT VERDUN
RUSSIAN
S
AGAI
DEFEAT MOSLEMS
Attacks on Defenders' Posi
tions West of the Mouse
Break Down; Turks Lose
Heavily in Armenia,
GERMAN DRIVE ON
EAST FRONT IMMINENT
Petrograd Expects Offensive
by von Hiridcrburg on Riga
Dvinsk Sector in the Near
Future, ;
a mosnins journal riciAi Lt.tro wmi
The Hermans continue their efforts i
to force through the Kronen lines at
MEXICANS SHOW
BETTER SPIRIT
AS RESULT OF
E PARLEY
Closer Co-operation Between
Americans and Carrancis
tas Attributed to "Gentle
men's Agreement,"
FIRST CHIEF HAS NOT
RENEWED DEMANDS
Indications Are That Question
of Withdrawal Is Not to Be
Pressed at the Present
Time,
tv MORMIN JOURNAL M ICIAL UARIO WIRII
Washington, May 13. Indications
reached the war department todny
Would Experiment
With Corpse in Court
Iftv MORNtNa JOURNAL RRICIAL LIARID WINtl
Boulder, Colo., May 13. District
Attorney Unwell V. Fleming on
nounced today he would petition the
dim riot court for permission to Intro
duce a corpse Into the court room
where Rlenal Dickens Is on trial
charged with the murder of his fath
er, William H. Dickens.
According to the petition, the dis
trict attorney would Introduce the
corpse as rebuttal testimony, punc
ture the body with a bullet In an ef
fort to prove the contention of the
prosecution that a bullet, fired In the
court room, would penetrate tho body
and emerge Intact.
COTUAM HOLDS
RECORD-BREAKING
PROCESSION FOR
PREPAREDNESS
patH bandits near M-xicn City and
Villa outlaws near Taiuaulipas, was
reported, however, in consulur dis
patches. Unconfirmed private re
ports to the stale department con
tained rumors that Felix liiiu, recent
ly reported to be fomenting an anti
Carruuui revolution In southern Mex
ico, had crossed Into Guatemala.
Verdun. Attacks against tho French j that the Scoit-Obrcgon border con
positions iwcst of Hill .101 nnd the
slope northeast (uf IjC Morte Hommo
wore repulsed, according to tho lutes'.
French official Ktatement. Furls re
ports Intense, artillery activity on
both rides in Champagne.
FARM CREDIT BILL
ENTERSJ.AST STAGE
(RV MORNINO JOURNAL IPICUL LRARID MMRII
Washington, May 13. The house
failed to complete debate today ns ex
pected on the rural credits bill, and
leaders said tonight It would be pass-
; ed Monday.
Speaker Clark took the floor to
Ui-Ke every member to vol.
Greatest Civic Parade in Coun
try's History Contains 150,
000 Participants; Lasts
Twelve Hours,
ALL WALKS OF LIFE
ARE REPRESENTED
One Division Is Composed of
Street Sweepers, While An
other Consists of Supremo
Court Justices,
iar MORIONS JOURNAL fPICIAL KAMI
New York, May 13. New York
expressed its attitude on the ques-
for the! Hon of national preparedness today
ference, although officially deserlhed I M .. , .,! ni-iii declarations i by holding the greatest civic parade
us having ended in a deadlock, ao-, ln Bupport of liln argument that "we the history of the country. An al
tunlly had resulted in closer '',-"I'' j hav all promised this legislation."' mo,t countless host of men and worn
.ration between the American I The speaker said thru no member of ! estimated at more than 160.000,
lunuiuu lorcea in nn-Mcu, nu tlu, house, of any party, eoul.l vote, j representing en warns or uiu in io
were Intimations that, no written
Farther to the north the Germane agreement had been drawn up by the I
against the bill und then safely ex-
natlon's metropolis, marched for
twelve hours, twenty nbreust, behind
I made three
bert 1 Kvans, of the signal corps, milted republican ti.'irty will enter the
has had a staff of men in the fitsld : oamiiuicn with a popular majority of
rushing this work.
CONFEREES AGREE
UPON 20000 AS
1BV MORNIN JOURNAL RPItOAL LEARIO WINK)
Washington, May
here tonight from Boquillas with de-;army of 20fi 000 men,
tails of Major Langhorne s second in-
PEACE STRENGTH
Standing Army May Be Ex
. panded to 256,00.0, Sup
ported by 425,000 Federal
ized Reserves,
1,3000,000 vote.s. Continuing, he says
"To the normal republican advant
age must be added the dissatisfaction
among (ierman and Irish democrats.
Without attempting to decide whelh-
r.i. tl.A rv...ui'lf,ri n..i.. il-Iua it. IlllU-laO
In taking the course that alienated , " " , ' . " V,. r..,.V
m n-
don states that the Germane succeed
ed in entering s Hritlsh trench, but
were driven out.
ItushiaiiN Win in Ai-monlii.
Petrograd reports further progress
Genernl Scott telegraphed that Gen
eral obregon had indicated a fear as1
to tho effect a fornml protocol for
Immeaeurablw value to farmers.
defeat tb nartv In several e 'TS by the Indians l ' , '1 :
attacks against British conferees because they decided morel ,...!, ,. ,1,.. i.ni ...i.i i... bands playing patriotic airs through,
NommeH'ould be accomplished without one. ,' ,,, ,,,,, f ,,,., anr ln 1 flag bedecked street lined With hun-.
I II..n..i.l li.luiit'.n.hi.d (I.. 'it (Inn. .. .U....u,.i.lu 9 flhmi.lutf r.Art.
the Fnlted Stales and would I 0f j . i..w..- v. v..- ....B
IlllloiH. All inv pruii'naiun
trades which make up the complex
I life of the clly were represented.
I ln one division were the street
sweepers, In their uniforms of white.
whllo in another .were the dignified
Justices of the supreme court of New
York. There also were the clergy
! nearly 200, representing every denom-
Inaiion In tho natlon'a greatest city.
ontlnued presence of American
troops on Mexican soil might have on j
Mexican public, opinion In view of;
defeat the party In several elose
states.
IVuce Moment Pivotal.
for the ItUHHlan arms in Armenia.' A',,",",ra' i.arrunzue oenmmi ior uo
powerful Turkish attack delivered at drawal, presented more than a month
high mountain range In the direction ! he as explaining the failure of the
es to go runner tnan an un-
gentlemen's agreement as to
diers bv the Ilusiians. metnoos or co-operation m tne cam
The successful conclusion of a (wo
DEMOCRATS FAVOR
days' engagement between the Kus
filan left wing nnd the Turks Is re-
"From What source can we draw ; ported by Petrograd.
the number of recruits necessary to
givo the party a fighting chancer
From one source and from one source
only, namely, the peace element of
the republican party; we cannot draw
votes from the war element,
"There is a peace element in the
republican party as shown by the vnto
cast f,or Henry Ford in Michigan, Ne
braska and other states. This is the
only element to which the democratic
party can appeal, and to appeal to
1.1. v Ktandine' this element it wilt De necessary to
ennnblf of be- do more than has yet been done. If!
Germans Jkctive on H.t.
In the east tho Germans are dis
playing pronounced activity along the
jia lira nguiiist banditry
' Cnrrunaislas to Co-oihtuU.
Kvidences that th's agreement was
being carried out cumo today iu of
ficial telegrams reporting the move
ments of both American and Carruti-
kii troops. General Hcott telegraphed
i
BILLY
!
WALTON
FOR CONGRESS
Riga -Dvlntk frort, and Petrograd In-! I hat he had assurances from General
tlientest un:ixpectvi.tlon of a determln- j Obregon that Carranm commanders
ed drive by Field 'Marshal von Hin-j hud eeu ordered to campaign against
denburg iu this region in the near fu-1 bandits, both about Parral and ulong
tare. It la not believed in the Itus- the Coahulla-Chlhuahua border Inihel
slan caoital. however, that unv cen- ( region of the Pig fiend raids. Gen
eral offensive by the Germans on the
Itussian front is in Immediate pros
pect. An offensive by the Germans
eral Pershing reported that in accord
ance with Instructions following the
border conferences, he was shorten
ing the American line of communl-
vaslon of Mexico, which was made
Thursday rvening at f o'clock from
San Vicente, six miles west of Boqull
Ifis. Mr. Aultman's story to the Asso
ciated I'resa follows:
"Major T-anghorne's arrangements
to exchange his Mexican prisoners for
Jesse Dcemer fell through. Early
Thursday afternoon after a confer
ence with Colonel Sibley, commander
of the second ounitive expedition. It I
was decided to make a quick dash
across the river and follow the ban
dits' trail. Everything was prepared
and shortly after 5 o'clock a start was
made from Boquillas to San Vicente
and from there to the crossing. San
Vicente was reached about S o'clock
and Major Langhorne, at the head of
his cavalry, plunged through the river
to the Muxlcan side and the chase be
gan. Following the cavalry were
three automobiles, and two uutomo
Wle trucks filled with food supplies
nnd forage for the men and horses.
Closing up the rear woe a long line
of pack animals laden with forage,
machine guns and 'ammunition.
F.tpedUion riudy Punitive. '
"This morningr at 6 o'clock Colonel
Sibley with Troops F and H of the
Fourteenth cavalry and a machine
Run troop left Boouillas for San Vi
cente to take up the trail of Major
Langhorne. It was Colonel Sibley's
Intention to establish a base forty
milci, south of Boqulllas and if neces
sary himself and troops to push on.
leaving a small guard at the estab
lished base. Shortly after Colonel
Sildey left for San Vicente two motor
trucks and a large animal pack train
'eft to follow him into Mexico. So
far as I can understand it Is not;
Colonel Sibley's desire to remain long
in Mexico. The expedition is made
intf expanded in emergency to 256,- any considerable number of repuo-
Ouo and backed up by a federalized j "' ung jen it icnuiy i mo piuxiueui
national guard of 435,0H0 as a re- they would have shown it by writing
.,, nllv was agreed on today i in his name as their choice when they
! against the Uritish expeditionary j cation and drawing In his scouting on
by house and senate conferees on
the army bill. The agreement will
i.u lennrted to conarcss curly next
week and the measure, the firt of j Peace. The opportunity Is here. The
nHministration nreDaredness bills, 1., ; German government. In accepting this
force in German Kant Africa, has been
barren of results, according to un of
ficial statement from London.
German IHplomnt Hcslgns,
The resignation of Mr. Clemens
I. .. - ... II I
ed it must be done by a move towsvd .(Uer interior, announced
n,.nAn .in.nilltn l tu lta,0 1llCll '
expressed themselves at the primary.
If this element Ik to be conclllat-
expected to be before President Wil
son for his signature soon after.
Advocates of national defense re
gard this conference agreement as a
government's position in the subma
rine controversy gives as one of Its
reasons for doing so lta unwillingness
to be responsible for extending or
It refers to the
.r.v, Tho rmnnrnm d lieiween !" '" '
the house and senate measures was fact that it hoe twice expressed a de
aflected after weeks of struggle ! el to consider terms of peace. The
.,.,,, latent demand of house ! way is open. Wilt the president take
for a H iindlnir annv ui
Solely for the purpose of hunting the
''audits to their lair, which Is eaid to
lie over 100 miles south of the bor
der and It is planned to return to Bo
oulllaa within ten days."
IVisouor as Guide.
Katividad Alvarez, the lieutenant
colonel of the Boqulllas raiders, one
t three prisoners captured shortly
after the raid, is being used as a ecout
V Major Langhorne. For days Al
varez, thinking he waa to be executed,
conferees
only 140,000 men, and until today It
hud appeared that- the senate might
be forced to yield. Tho senutc bill
provided for 250,000.
Minimum Is 100,000.
The maximum enlisted strength
would be attained under the con
ference agreement within the next
five years nnd it is stipulated that
at no time shall the total be ks. than
10,000.
The conference report also pro
vides for government nitrate manu
facturing plants to cots not exceed
ing $0,000,000, for vocational edu
cation in the regular army and for
the Instruction of military training
camps tor volunteer citizen, whose
transportation, clothing and subsist
ence expenses whiel In training would
be paid by the federal government.
Twining Camp Feature.
The training camp feature as final
ly approved is regarded as compen
sation in a. measure for the leiierai
volunteer rt serve of 1.000 meii
which conferees were forced to aban
don on insistence from the nouse.
Other salient features of the meas
ure provide for a board to investi
gate the advisability of operating
government muntiion plant ana
Fall
uro to secure peace terms would
bring no humiliation while success
would be of tremendous advantage to
him politically, as well as a blessing
to this country und the world. Ho
can at one stroke destroy all the ad
vantage the republican party now hae
and make the race on tho record of
a peace maker. Will he give voico to
the world's conscience to humanity's
hope?"
from Berlin. Ill health is given ns
the reason. Dissatisfaction has been
widely expressed ln Germany recent
ly witli the ministerial handling of
the food situation us an outgrowth of
which riots have been reported nnd
(here have been hints recently thai
the resignation of Dr. Delbrueck was
imminent.
PRODUCTION OF
WHISKEY N U. S
LEAPS UPWARD
patrols.
officials here believe that Nami
qulpa will soon bo abandoned us his
field base. Today was taken to In
dlcato early retirement of the head
of the American forces to Colonia
Dublan. General Pershing also re
ported that there were no Mexican
forces in his vicinity.
Activity Around Itlg IWnd.
With Carrunza troops advancing to
wnrd the border adjoining the Big
Bend region, reports from Genera
Funston indicated that American op
erations thnro were to attain consld
sldcrabie magnitude. An entire motor
truck company hti been transferred
from Columbus to Maralhan, Tex,, to
form the line between Marathon, as
the base, nnd Major Langhorne's
troopers pursuing the bandits who
raided Boqulllas and Glenn Springs.
Whllo co-operative military move
ments niR proceeding, diplomatic ne
gotiations for a formal protocol cover
ing the American expedition are Xr
pectcd to be resumed next week by
Convention Held in Silver
animous
County
Nomination,
i Lawyers, physicians, trained nurses,
olenitis of , the JSpttiilsh-Amcrlcan,
war all were ln line. . But the most
popular division was made. up of th
city's 10,000 national guardsmen In
fantry, cavalry , and artillerywho
brought up tho rear,
General Wood Hntcx).
"This," declared ' Major Generat
Ci , , , . t r J i lA-oiwru woou, in euiumnna 01 nm
ity UnanimOUSly tndOISeS department of the east, who reviewed
fimnt Tnunfv Man for tne "arfttle' in trmcn argument,
UUtllt wumv mail lui , nil)ri,.a h. oyer known for prepar
edness against element that are at
present unknown. " This Is What wo
need. It shows that the time has
come to do something ' in the matter
of national preparation." (
The great civic army began march
ing at 11:30 a. in and the hurt of them
had not passed the reviewing etund
riPKUIAL Oil PATCH To WORNIN4 JOURNAL!
Sliver City, N. M., May 13. By a
unanimous vote the Grant county
democratic convention which met In
Silver City today to elect delegates to ln Mudlsnn Square Garden until 9:39
the state convention to lie held in At- o'clock tonight,
buquerquo May 24 adopted resolu- Aeroplane Over Broadway,
tlon. urging the nomination of State Jt Major Mltchel and a par
" , tv of municipal officers left the city
Senator W. li. Walton for congress ; flt (he of th- im MyMoUt
to succeed tho present incumbent, B. iftn fter0pin0 appeared above lower
C. Hernandeii. The resolutions wero 1 Broadway and hovered around tho
1 strongly worded find were adopted . great skyscrapors.
with prolonged enthusiastic cheers on , The paraaers niarcnea raptuiy,
the part of the delegatus and specta- j more than 10,000 passing a given
IorM i point within on hour.
The action of the convention pos- With few exceptions the marchers
sesses mor than ordinary importance 1 carried small American flagj. Tho
from the fact that It Is the first en- women's division, estimated to num
dorsemeut given any candidate for her 6,000 and ,000, began to appear
nn.v state orrlce by the democrats of : before the reviewing stand about
New Mexico. Senator Walton Is rec-: o'clock, Mrs. Theodore Koosevelt,
ngnixed ns one of the strongest lead-! Mrs. Theodore Iloosevelt, Jr., and
or of his party In the entire stale, nnd j Mrs. J. Borden llarrlman were among
especlallv In southwestern New Mex-. those m line,
DOMINICAN MINISTER
REFUSES TO RESIGN
IBt MOONINII JOURNAL SpBCIAL L1ASKO WIMI
Washington, May 13. Messages to
the statu department today from
American Minister Mussel! at Santo
Domingo reported that'General Arias,
leader of the revolt against former
President Jimlnes, does not now want
to resign as war minister, although
he has agreed recently to withdraw
when Jimlnez resigned. . Minister
Kussell was instructed to compe'
General Arias' retirement, using
American naval forces if necessary.
A small force of marines has been
I landed at San XJomingo olty by Ad
miral Capterton, to protect Amerl-
, .nn 1,1'c.h nnA urnncplir Minister Pom
boaru to recominenn iiu.iniiu" j soil reported.
industries. Ainncirn; in nivi-u w
The Day in CongressJ
- , SEXATK.
Filibuster against rivers and bar
u"rs appropriation bill by Senators
Shaman un(1 Kenyon continued.
Conference committee agreed on
irniy reorganization bill to establish
n urmy of 200.000 peace strength,
and national guard of 425,000 men.
Adjourned ut 2: -.'6 p. ni. until noon
Monday.
credits till
ilOPMi
ft bat on the rural
""numied.
Adjourned at 5: :i p. m. to U a. ru.
Monday.
government to seize and operate pri
vate munition plunts in time, of war.
GOES TO ARRANGE PLAN
FOR POLISH RELIEF
1ST MONNIHa JOURNAL tMCIAl. tlAlU Wll
Now York, May 13. Alexander J.
Hemphill, treasurer of the American
commission for relief In Belgium,
sailed today for London, where he
will con.sider with Herbert C. Hoovir.
chairman of tho commission, a plan
to feed Poland that will c satisfac
tory to both the entente allies and
the central powers.
Germany's offer to contribute 15.
00,000 marks a month toward the
work will make provision for S.ooo.
00 of the population. Mr. 11 mphill
suited. There ure fully IS.mOO.OoO
destitute persons in Poland, be vald.
British fiteanicr Snnk.
Umdon Mav 13. The British steel
steamer Kretria, of S.4 64 tons gross,
has been sunk, Lloyd's shipping
agency announced this evening.
FILIBUSTER ON PORK
BARREL CONTINUES
1ST MORMtNS JOURNAL SpKCtAL LCA6VO WtRt
Washington, May 13. This waa the
fifth uay of the filibuster against the
rivers and harbors appropriation bill
by Senators Kenyon and Sherman. '
Senator Kenon finished, after
speaking for two hours, but an
nounced he would continue to fight
the bill and would offer amendments
for projects where the appropriation
asked was larger than he thought
propper. Further consideration of
th bill was deferred until Tuesday
on motion of Chairman Clarke.
lco where be has practiced law for Tiiomus A. r.dison, noiwiinsiamuuB
many years, be is considered Invincl-1 his 60 years of ago, tramped along
ble. It Is believed here that he would. With tho stride of men hulf hia "go,
add much strength to the democratic at the head of a contingent of t wen
ticket if nominated and would makejty-tw members of tho naval cuu-
Soeretarv 1inslng and Fllseo Arre- ! """a'la "" the -normal republican suiting i,uru oi no initeu cares.
Binmorj J..ilisiut i.iimco rtrre- ...,,.. Mr i "Sneh a iiiirmla nueds no eXnl'efl.
vole iiirouniioui tint c-vuuu. ,-... . - --- - m.
Walton was the democratic leader In : slon.'" declnred the Inventor. 'The
..... .... f..,, ru nri : fact I hat I inarched in it exiresed
border .o report to Secretaries Baker j ; (,' ffr my sentiment, exactly."
r- .. .. ' r. iiind Lansing. That General Carriin- ,.,,,1,,.. ,,.. i.,.u ,m,,i h I t,i one. of The great buildings In Wall etrcot
UeSDlte bl'OWtn Ot hUmUltlOn,!2:1 la w:t,u" U,v lo mnke, ; fa(.lo.H jn ,h(. (J,.mu,;raUc and adjacent IhorouKhfareu were lit
' , tno next movp was linucaieu miuiy ny ,
dondo, (.'arrnnza's uide here. General
! Scott w ill return Monday from the I
UUIpUI IIIIS Teal IS ,0UU,-iM'-. Airedondo, and ly Special Agent
P ot TU ' UougurH nt Mexico t ny. ut" roriuer
ulCaltr inaiMjti,, wa!( awaiting Instructions und
000 Gallons
Ever Before,
May liNtiMdie Clearing Plan.
Washington, May 13. The federal
reserve board announced today that
it is considering an application of
memberOs of the American Bankers'
association for a postponement of the
opening of the board's country-wide
clearing plan, which was to go Into'
effect about June 15.
tr MORNING JOURNAL FPCCIAL llAKO W1RII
Washington, May 13. Notwith
standing the fact that prohibition
laws have become effective in seven
state since July 1, 1M15, approxi
mately 7, 500,000 gallons more whis
key has been produced in the Cnited
States so fur dining this fiscal year
ending June 30, than ever before, lie
turns to the Internal revenue, bureau
approximate the total increase for the
year at. Iti.ooo.ono gallons.
During the same period the produc
tion of beer has fallen more limn
1.500,000 bar re In, or 45,000,000 gal
lons from Ian year's figures. The
total produc tion of beer for the year
ending June 30, it is estimated, will
be about. 60,000,000 gallons less than
it was in the lust fiscal year
An extraordinary increase iu the
amount of cigars, cigarettes and to
bacco is reported for tho current year. I
The tx collected during the nine
months ending .March 31 shows un in
crease of approximately $5,000,0u0 on
tobacco.
Convention AceinnnMlatloii.
Chicago, May 13 Reports that
hotel accommodations for convention
week were Inadequate were denied
today by George 31. Spangler, Jr..
manager of the convention bureau of
the Chicago Association of Commerce.
Former Judge Dies
Denver, May 13. Alfred Ilufus
King, formerly associate judge of the
stale court of appeals, died toJay af
ter an extended Itlncea.
! Mr. Itodgers telegraphed that General
Carraoza had not indicated that he
would make immediate renewal of his
demand for withdrawal.
Italluay ()u-lii Attain.
I'se of the Mexican railways for
transportation of American soldiers ns
well as Kiipplies probably will ho one
of the prominent points urged by the
Coiled states ln the negotiations. The
fact that the rainy pennon In northern
Mexico impedes motor truck tram-por-
tatlou, emphasizes thy need for the
railways, nit hough it was officially
(stated tonight that every pound of
available cavalry forage which lias
reached General pcrhhmg since estab
lishment of his advanc'd base had
been rent over the railways through
private shippers. ,
That customs restrictions) which
have prevented shipment of ammuni
tion Carranza authorities would be
continued while thn diplomatic dls-
ussionH proceed was also indiiated.
It was slated that the policy which I
hii.-i htopped all munitions shipped
across tho border slncn the American
expedition was launched, had not
been changed.
Mav Convene Coiirts-uuirtlul.
Orders Issued today permitting
General Pershing to convene, courts
martial, were officially explained as
calculated only to provide a meuns of
dealing with infractions of military
rules by Pershing's own men. It was
emphusized that the court-martial au
thority would not extend to prosecu
tion of Mexican snipers.
The war department was without
confirmation tonight of new bandit
operations in news dispatches from
the border. Renewed activity of Za-
olilics of the state. eiany covereu wun nags lino oo.o-
Th democratic convenllon held fug. while band stationed nt virtually
here todav was one of the most large-! every corner, played patriotic airs,
ly attended and enthusiastic ever held fbisiness was suspended at, the noon
in Grant county, every precinct being I hour.
represented. The administration of I H was pointed out that It had tak
l'resldcnt Wilson was warmly endors- en from March to to organize the
ed and Asrlstan, Secretary of the In- ; parade, and that, notwithstanding th.i
terior A. A. Jr. nes was endorsed for , demonstration in favor of prepared
ti, nomination for Culled Stales sen- ness. "in. must be remembered that
alor.
FAIR AND COOL IS
PREDICTION FOR WEEK
the marchers were In no sense organ
ized or equipped, for ihe defense of
their country. Not a uniform had
ben supplied, and not one piece of
equipment, hud been furnished."
Although reports were current dur
ing the day that anarchists contem
plated muklng a demonstration
against tho marchers, tho parade wan
cut rod out without a hitch,
wi iu ics of Di :i i;.sii;
I'VNDS OITMN'KD
TRY MORNINtt JOURNAL RPICtAL LRARAD WIRI
Washington. May 13. Weather
predict Ions for tlie week beginning
Sunday made by the weather huicai'
today sny ;
"Indications arc that the coming
week will be generally overcast and
cool with occasional local rains I Washington, May 13. Taxes on In-
throughout the Atlantic states, tho ' comes, inheritance and war munitions
Ohio valley and tho region of the j will be depended on to pay for tho
urent lanes. preparedness program. Chairman
"Similar conditions will prevail tin Klu-liln of the house ways and means
first half of the week in the upper t commute, eald tonight after a con
ference witli Secretary MoAdoo. The
plan had the support, Mr. Kttehln
faid, of President Wilson.
What amounts will have to be rais
ed cannot be determined until tho
naval and orniy bills are completed.
Mouthers of the ways and means com-
Throw Hato SnIIm Filed. j mittee will begin work on this prob-
Denver, May la. Threo suits ask- lem as quickly as posiMe, however.
log reparation for $lS,sr,fi for alleged j l t her than a decision not to lower
excessive coal rales were filed today the jpresenl exemption limit for tn-
with the state public utilities com- comes, 3,000 for unmarried and J4,
Mississippi valley and the plains
states.
"Generally fair and cool weather
will prevail during the week over the
ftocky mountain and plateau regions
and the Pacific states."
William E. Itnssell. 000 for married men, none of the de-
Chietigo, Burlington &:tilg of thp tax plan huve been work-
Union Pacific and the.ed out.
mission by
against the
Qulncy, the
Colorado Southern railroads. The
cases rover shipments since May,
1910. from the northern Colorado
fields,
Plans for Imposing istamp taxes, on
manufactured tobacco, liquors, beers,
gasoline and other articles, Mr. Kltch
in said, haj bucu definitely abandon
