v f LIBRARY AH
Vo- 26 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 29, 1916 &, t No,7 j H
-i
I An Independent Paper Published Under
) :: the Management of J. T. Goodwin ::
EDITORIALS BY JUDGE C. C. GOODWIN
' '
When Sneaks Succeed
HPHERE was a time when the government of
i Utah was a theocracy in name as well as
J spirit. Then a few families were everything, the
masses of the people wt-re in fact but a herd, to
do as they were told.
Then there came a time when the government
was changed in name to comply with the nation's
J forms, but the spirit was not changed.
t The determination to carry on within the re
public a government which was in truth hostile
and alien in its determination, under the name of
Liberty, to still hold to all the tyrannies of a
theocracy, caused infinite sufferings to those who
were enthralled by it and infinite heartburnings
among all the people.
Moreover, the old assumption that certain fam-
jj ilies must be held as the elect was clung to.
9 At last the dominant power here, to its ever-
' 9 lasting credit, called a halt and put out a proc-
fi lamation that henceforth the rule of the republic
jjfc should be the rule of all the people. Then a
K great calm came to Utah and a marked progress
k began which has ever since continued.
K But a certain few have never been loyal to the
m changed conditions, and have never given up the
r idea that the power, the honor and a larger part
m of the emoluments should by natural right be
p retained in a few families and they are perpetu-
ally trying in sneaking ways and on false pre
tenses to bring around the enforcement of this
system. These people are true neither to the
church nor the republic; they are influenced
I jf, wholly by personal avarice and a desire to obtain
unearned prestige and honors. With every new
effort on their part there comes trouble, and,
k when they win, the state and the natural progress
f of the state receives a set-back, and the growing
; affiliation among all classes of people suffers a
I chill.
I For instance, the trouble that was precipitated
upon our state university a year or more ago,
came from these people who are true neither to
the church nor the state, with the result that the
. university cannot regain the prestige it had estab
" lished for twenty years to come.
Finally it is a matter for the Mormon people to
settle. The Gentiles made statehood for Utah
possible on the solemn pledge of the dominant
J party that if granted Utah should In spirit and in
h
j. . mt
truth be an American state. The Gentiles have
kept every covenant, so have the masses of the
Mormon people, and the changes that have been
wrought in Utah have been as great as they have
been splendid. Whatever trouble has come has
been from these few irreconcilables who have
been determined to win by sneaking and false
pretenses what they would not dare propose open
ly. It is for the Mormon people to settle, and they
have behind them as a reason for settling it right
the knowledge of the fact that when these sinis
ter few win a point it is always followed by loss
and dishonor to Utah and all her people.
A Marvelous Memorial
HPHE 'Daughters of the Confederacy have deter-
mined to make a memorial to the lost cause in
a most imposing and lasting form.
There is a mountain of solid granite sixteen
miles out from Atlanta 700 feet in height.
The proposition is to carve a frieze 2,000 feet
long and 50 feet wide (or deep) across the face of
this mountain; this face to represent the two
wings of an army, with foot, horse and artillery
in motion and made to look as though on the
march, passing over the mountain. To correspond
with the mountain's height the figures on the
frieze the men, horses and guns will necessarily
have to be colossal, reaching, including the horses,
30 to 50 feet in height. All the strong men of the
south of 1861-'G5, official, civil and military will
have places on the frieze, but it will not be a
monument to any one man, but a memorial to a
cause. The conception of the nature of the me
morial is due to Mrs. C. Helen Plane, president
of the Monument association, assisted by Wm. A.
Terrill, a lawyer of Atlanta, and the idea and de
tails are to bo worked out and carried to com
pletion by the Danish-American sculptor, Gutzon
Borglum of New York City, who expects to be
engaged eight years on the work. It is expected
to cost $2,000,000. The mountain was owned by
Samuel Venable of Atlanta and he and his heirs
have deeded it to the association.
The sculptor is sanguine in the belief that
nothing which has ever been attempted in the
way of a memorial will compare with this work
when completed. He thinks the men who built
the Pyramids had the same purpose in mind, that
Greece might have anticipated the work, but
neither Egypt nor Greece had the needed moun
tain. All Americans will be glad to see this work
carried to completion. It will not only be a splen
dor to look upon, but it Avill carry lessons to the
generations that are to succeed the present one.
The first thought will be of the giants of
1861-G5; the second will be that a higher than
mortal power watches and directs the destinies of
nations and that its edicts cannot be turned
aside.
Madam De Stael looking upon the exquisite
sculptured frieze of a great cathedral, likened it
to "frozen music." If the sculptor realizes his
idea in the. wqrking out of his design on Stone M
mountain, it will bo a funeral march in granite ' M
and the refrain will seem to ring out down the H
ages from the stone, a requiem over an irresistible
valor that was suddenly transfixed. The pyramids , H
were built by selfish and cruel men to secure for H
themselves undisturbed graves. That fact brings ) M
to men who see them something of the mould and H
odor of decay. This mountain frieze near Atlanta
will be in the open where the lightnings, the tem-
pests and the sunbeams can all beat upon tho H
moving army. H
Below in the forest there will be a temple cut i
in the mountain side with a 200 foot front, which ;
front will be supported by thirteen great columns H
to symbolize the thirteen confederate states, and H
the mountain will be cut out fifty feet deep, fur- ',
nished in stone and dedicated to the women of H
the confederacy. H
There will not bo a figure carried to the moun- H
tain; all will be carved from the granite. ( H
Lower still a great park with walks, creeks and H
a lake will be created in the forest. The sculp- H
tor believes that when tho work shall be com- H
pleted it will make all other attempts in sculp- ' H
ture in this country look like thirty cents.
The Progressives And Their Idol M
Tf'HERE never was such a political party as the H
Progressives, especially the Utali Progressives. jH
They are not going to merge with the Republl- H
cans, they are sure the Republicans are going to H
nominatn "their man," but they do not intend to H
permit any of them to carry tho flag, or be drum H
major or to be seen anywhere near tho front of H
the procession. H
And the funny feature is that were the gentle- H
man who carries the purse Mr. Perkins and the H
other gentleman who supplies tho gall one T. R. H
to drop out, there would be no Progressive H
leader except H. J. of California, and no follow- H
ers anywhere. H
Not one of them seems to remember that Colo- H
nel Roosevelt would ever have been a Progres- H
sive had he not known that he never could win H
as a Republican. H
Had he not known that he would have been in H
the race in 1908. Tho other day he put out a H
few articles of his present faith. A tariff commis- H
sion which was urged while he was president, H
but which at that time ho seemed indifferent to H
less supervision of great industries by the states ,H
and more by the federal government, which is a H
reminder that what he did along those same lines H
when he was president gave the country a sense H
of relief when his term expired. There are some H
millions of people in the country who rememoer H
that when his first adviser, John Hay, died, the H
colonel apparently lost his head. About the first H
thing he began to denounce lwas the supreme H
court of the United States. H
Then a rumor, reached him that there was a '
lax of sanitary regulations in the management of H
the great slaughter houses- fir,Ghicagot Kansas 'H
City and other places. H
Instead of having a secretary write to each of :H
them, informing them of the rumor and cautioning H
I
