-L.
The intelligent, common sense
workingmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with a picture or a dream.—Gom
pers.
VOL. 23. NO. 24.
^^0
^®t
He Commands Respect.
GOMPERS AMONG NATION'S
BUSIEST MEN AT CAPITOL
President American Federation of Labor Violates Union Rules
And Devotes Long Hours to His Work—No End of
Conferences, Speaking, Writing and Traveling.
WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT WRITES
ABOUT ACTIVITIES OF GRAND OLD MAN
Interesting Story of Life, Character and Service of World's
Greatest Leader of Men Who Started the Fight
That Resulted in the Defeat of Cannonism.
By Claude G. Bowers.
Entering- a room that bears evi­
dence of being sacred to work, he
dons a skull cap, seats himself at a
table littered with books, papers, doc­
uments, and delves into his corres­
pondence. Here, in a nervous, hur­
ried manner, he dictates letters, reads
reports, sends clerks hurrying and
scurrying around for books and docu
nrjents.
Meanwhile a .number of visitors
wait without in the room of the sec­
retary for an opportunity to see "the
old man." One by one they enter,
hold their conference and depart.
The Voice of Legions.
Off comes the skull cap, and on
goes the street hat, and "the old
man" once more emerges and heads
towards the capitol. What a painful
effort it must require for such stubby
legs to carry such a ponderous body
not to mention such a massive head!
He takes a street car, and finding a
•seat, dives into his commodious pock­
ets and pulls out a piece of paper
torn from a magazine which he pro­
ceeds to read through big blasses.
He reaches the senate office building
and alights.
WASHINGTON, D. C., Jan. 27.—There lie goes waddling
down the street because liis legs are short and body heavy,
emitting great clouds of smoke from the cigar in his mouth.
His shoulders are massive, his head unusually large, his round
smooth shaven face.tells the story of many struggles and
world weariness, and challenges the notice of the passerby.
He has just come from the White House where he has been
closeted with the President and he is a lobbyist! And yet no
one with an honest mind would pretend to find therein the sug­
gestion of wrong doing, for he has been lobbying for the people
the great struggling millions!
He waddles on down street, deep
in thought, until he reaches a great
office building in front of which the
forest trees that give tone to Wash­
ing ton spread their bare disconsolate
branches, and entering, steps in the
elevator and is left off at the fifth
floor.
Down the marble corridors he wad­
dles to where a committee of sen­
ators are holding a hearing. Here he
enters. The appointments of the room
are elegant, luxuriant. Behind and
around a long mahogany table sit the
grave and reverent seigniors of the
state. As "the old man" enters there
is a hustle of curiosity, and he is re­
ceived with profound respect. A little
while before perhaps some pompous
gentlemen from New York had re
received a less respectful welcome but
he only had $2,000,000 behind him,
while "the old man" has 2,000,000
men.
He takes his position by the table
and begins to talk. Everyone listens"
intently. His great hazel eyes, set
wide apart, glow with inward fire.
His deep heavy voice has in it all the
passion and pathos of one deeply
moved. His language is as pure and
chaste and sonorous as that of Ma-
Samuel Gompers was born in Lon­
don, England, Jan. 27, 1850. His
father, Saul Gompers, is a cigarmak
er. His grandfather, Samuel Gomp­
ers, was a man of philosophical turn
Of mind, of extraordinary courage
and fearlessness, and well informed
through knowledge acquired by wide
travel in Europe.
As a boy, Samuei attended school
from his sixth to his tenth year, then
was apprenticed to a shoemaker, but
disliking the business, he learned the
trade of his father, and while work­
ing as a cigarmaker attended even­
ing school for four years.
Started Work Early In Life.
Being the eldest child of a family
of eight, he began to aid his father
in their support as soon as he could
earn wages. He continued to work at
his trade until he was tnirty-seven
years old, and during all this time he
was student, an organizer, the spokes­
man and advocate of the rights to
which in his view the working people
were entitled.
He came to the United States when
'XiS, iW..
cauley. At times he* suggests the
consumate actor as he employs modu­
lation to intensify the import of his
words.
Back to the office on street. Here
he finds earnest men awaiting him,
and with them he goes into confer­
ence. He has had nothing to eat.
No matter—it's all in a day's work.
And after the conference he shuts
himself in and writes, writes, writes
—words that millions will read—even
(Continued on Page 2.)
Central Labor Union to Hold Open
Meeting Tonight to Observe
Birthday.
This will be Gompers' night at the
Federated Trades assembly at Owls*
hall. Speeches will be made by E. G.
Hall, W. E. McEwen and John Z.
White. A cordial invitation is ex­
tended to the public to attend.
John Z. White will speak first at
the Lakeside Improvement club. He
will be the last speaker at the assem­
bly meeting and will choose his own
subject. He probably will touch on
some features of the report of the
Industrial Relations commission.
E. G. Hall, president of the State
Federation of Labor, will discuss the
chief features of the collective bar­
gaining recommendation of the com­
mission. Mr. Hall has spent consid­
erable time studying the report of
the Industrial Relations' commission
and he will have something interest­
ing to say on the subject.
W. K. McEwen has been requested
to speak on the life and achievements
Samuel Gompers. He will also
of
speak on some things in the philos­
ophy of the trade union movement.
thirteen years old, settled in New
York city, and the next year (1864)
helped to organize the Cigar Makers'
International union, which now num­
bers 50,000, each member counting
his membership in numerical order.
His membership card is No.* 1 and he
served the union as secretary ,and
president for six years. He edited its
local paper, "The Picket," during
that time.
Always Labor's Servant.
He was president of the New York
Workingmen's Assembly for two
years he was nominated by both
the Democratic and Republican party
in his district for state senator in
1882 the Republican party offered
him the nomination as representative
in Congress in 1884 Governor Hill
tendered him a place on the State
Board of Arbitration in 1885, and
President McKinley on the Industrial
Commission in 1898, all of which
honors he declined.'
He was connected with the Federa­
tion of Organized Trades and Labor
Unions of the United States and Can­
ada, and the American Federation of
Labor, its successor, in continuous
official capaciay during the early
The workingmen and women of Duluth, with their
fellows in all of North America, extend their greetings
and best wishes to Samuel Gompers, president of the
American Federation of Labor, on this his sixty-sixth
birthday. He has rendered great service to humanity,
for which he deserves the gratitude of the people.
No man in American life has suffered such as he. No
period of their existence and up to
1887, without'salary or recompense,
when he was elected the second time
as president with a salary of $1,000
per year.
He is, and has been, first vice presi­
dent of the Cigar Makers' Interna­
tional Union of American for many
years, and was-instrumental in hav­
ing adopted by. that organization the
initiative, and referendum, not only
for the purpose of enacting laws,
but also in the election or officers.
Avoided Partisan Xtolitics.
In order to be of more service to
his fellow workmen in. the cause of
uplifting labor,,he.had steadlastly re­
fused to- be actively connected with
any partisan political party. He was
affiliated with, the' Society for. Ethical
Culture in New .York city, established
in 1867 by Felix. Adler.
Mr. Gompers speaks and reads two
language's other' than English. One
is German, which he learned that
he might have' the thoughts and
reasonings of the German economic
writers, knowing that translators
sometimes'have a purppse the other
is the language of his forefathers in
FOB SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC B&FORM AND POLITICAL PROGRESS.
DULUTH AND* SUPERIOR, JANUARY 29,1916.
"'HIS number of The Labor World joes to press'on the sixty-sixth anniversary of the birth of Samuel Gompers, President, of the American
Federation of Labor. Organized Labor in every city in North America is this day paying tributes of respect, devotion and esteem to the
man who, more than any other, is responsible for the conception, birth, standing, power, prestige ana strength of the greatest working
class jj? of all time. This issue contains a sketch of his life, stories of his achievements, eulogies from his co-workers, tributes from the
press, and a 'al discussion of the philosophy of the trade union movement. Read them you will become better acquainted with Mr. Gompers!
if you do, and you will understand the why of things you sometimes disapprove.
LAEOR'S "GRAND OLD MAN" DEVOTtS LONG AND
USEFUL LIFE TO SERVICE FOR HIS FELLOWS
j,- t,* f-,
CT
COURTESY OF THE MILWAUKEE JOURNAL
SAMUEL GOMPERS,
President of the American Federation of Labor.
BORN IN OBSCURITY SAMUEL GOMPERS BECOMES WORLD'S LEADER OF MEN
Holland. Although born in England,
Mr. Gompers* people originally came
from the land of the dykes.
Mr. Gompers has four children,
Samuel, Jr., who is a printer and
a member of the Typographical
union Alexander, a cigar maker, and
member of the -Cigar Makers' Inter­
national union Henry, a granite cut­
ter and a member of the Granite
Cutters' union and a daughter, Sadie,
who lives with her father and mother
on First street in Washington.
His life work has been to aid the"
working people by increasing wages,
reducing hours of labor, bringing
about better conditions of employ­
ment in all occupations and aiding
in improving the-standard of living.
Experience As Editor.
In June, 1887, by action of the Ex­
ecutive Council of-the American Fed­
eration of Labor, he, established the.
publication called "The' Union Advo­
cate." This publication appeared for
a short time, but when the convention
of 1887 met, it ordered the publica­
tion to be discontinued. Later the
American Federationist, official maga­
zine of the. American Federation, of
man has been more villified. He has borne it all with a
nobility of character that even compels his enemies to
respect him. And it should be remembered by men of
labor that every attack made upon Mr. Gompers was in­
tended, not for the man, but because he has been fight­
ing for men throughout his long life.. The integrity of
the labor movement is due largely to his great leadership.
Labor, was founded. The first issue
appeared March, 1894.
He is the author of "The Eight
Hour Day," "No Compulsory Arbitra­
tion," "What Does Labor Want" and
"Organized Labor, Its Struggles, Its
Enemies and Fool Friends." He has
edited the American Federationist
from 1894 up to the present, and-con'
tributed many articles to newspapers
and. magazines.
Delegate to Clgarmakers'
He has been a delegate- to "every
convention of the International
Union of Cigar Makers to the con­
ventions of the American Federation
of Labor since the flatters' existence..
He was the first delegate elected to
represent the American Federation
of Labor At the British Trades Union
Congress. He has also been honored
by the American Federation.of.Labor
in having been given a commission to
visit foreign countries in 1909,"for the'
purpose of conferring with the offi­
cials of labor organizations also to
attend the International, Secretariat
as a fraternal delegate from the
American Federation of Labor, the
latter Organization not. having been
MINNESOTA
HISTOniQftfr
•OOtfcTY.
W. E. McEwen of Duluth will be
the chief speaker. George Green­
ville, president of the Trades and
'Labor assembly \yill preside. G. W.
Lawson, secretary-treasurer of the
Minnesota State Federation of Labor
will state its purpose.
Additional speakers will be ob­
tained'and every effort will be made
to render the proceedings as enter­
taining and as profitable as possible.
Organized labor in St. Paul is in a
very prosperous condition and it Is
expected that a large and en­
thusiastic audience will greet the
speakers.
*4-
Resolutions will.be presented urging
congress to consider well the recom­
mendations of the Industrial Rela­
tions commission. Laws should be
passed as recommended that will
pave the way for the solutions .of
many of the ills of which workingmen
complain. Continued on Pare 8.
affiliated at that time with the Sec­
retariat, which is now known as In­
ternational Federation of Trade
Unions.
His trip through England, France,
Germany* Italy, Austria and Switzer­
land had the effect of creating in­
tense interest in social problems and
he was invited in all these countries
to hold conferences with high gov­
ernment officials, as well as leaders
of labor. Upon his return to Wash­
ington,- organized labor of that city,
aided by the, citizens of the District,
tendered to hlm the greatest ovation
ever tendered anyone, save, of course,
the incoming presidents on Inaugura­
tion Day.
Author And Student.
Since returning from the foreign
trip, Mr. Gompers has written a hook
entitled "Labor in Europe and Amer­
ica," which has had quite an exten­
sive sale. The Saturday half-holiday,
now so general, virtually originated
in the bill drafted by him and en­
acted by the New York Legislature.
His first helpful reading was the
tracts Jutd pamphlets Issued by the
Anti-Slavery Society, then he read
The working class movement to"
be moet effective must be conducted
by the workers themselves la the in­
terest of the workers* It will not
the dominated by the so-called in*
[tellectoals or butters-in.—Gompers.
YOUNGSTOWN STRIKE MASKS
COMING OF NEW LABOR ERA
Is Sign To Steel Industry Owners and Managers That End Will
Come—Cannot Adhere Forever To Present Policy
of Depressing Wages Below Decent Standard.
STEEL COMPANY PAYS BIG DIVIDENDS
AND DOLES OUT CHARITY TO WORKERS
Investigation Startles Nation—Pent Up Vengeance Let Loose
At Riot—American Federation of Labor Not Respon­
sible—Private Armies Write Own Death Warrant.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 27.—"The Youngstown strike was
a sign to the owners and managers of the American steel in­
dustry that the end will come that they cannot forever adhere
to their present policy of depressing wages below a decent stan­
dard by maintaining a vast horde of helpless immigrants in a
condition of economic subserviency, throwing them on charity
during times of depression, paying less than a living wage dur­
ing times of prosperity, and during all times brutalizing them
either by imposing excessive hours of employment or by impos­
ing the enforced leisure that breeds fear and pauperization."
This is the conclusion ~1—tn'n'fl /in
a report on the Youngstown strike
and riot of January 7, made public
today by the Committee on Industrial
Relations. The author is George P.
West, whose report on the Colorado,
strike and the Bayonne strike were
published by the United States Com­
mission on Industrial Relations.
The strike and riot at Youngstown,
says the West report, marked the
beginning of a rebellion that was
about to spread throughout the steel
industry, and. that was checked only
by the prompt action of Elbert H.
Gary, chairman of the United States
Mass Meeting Will Be Held Sun­
day and Industrial Relations
Report Disoussed.
St. Paul labor organizations will
observe Gompers* birthday Sunday in
connection with a large mass meet­
ing to be held by workingmen to dis­
cuss the report of the Industrial Re­
lations commission, of which Frank
P. Walsh was chairman.
TWO CENTS,
Steel Corporation, in announcing a
10 per cent increase for the 230,000
employes of that company.
Guards Were Hasty.
Discussing the cause of the riot
the report says:
"The hilling of three striking
workmen and the wounding of twen­
ty-five others and the pillage and
distruction that followed, probably
will be traced to the hasty action of
company guards in opening fire on
the crowd of strikers that surrounded
the gates across the company bridge.
Prosecuting Attorney Henderson, In
charge of the grand jury investlga-'
tlon how in progress, told the writer
•thai: his investigation had' convince^
hlM of this.
"Mir. Henderson expressed belief
that the company guards could havcj
performed their legitimate function
of guarding company property with­
out firing at the strikers, and that
the burning and pillaging of the bus!-*
ness section would then have been
avoided."
Company's Big Earnings.
But the real cause of the disaster
at East Youngstown, says the repot£
was tie prevailing economic condi*
tions. Many pages are devoted to
living conditions among the steel
workers.
"At the Youngstown Sheet and
Tube Company's plant, which, tot
more than eight years has earned
dividends of 8 per cent on its capital
stock, and since July, 1913, has paid
dividends of 12 per cent, on a basis
of $10,000,000 of common stock, th#
privilege of worikng three days
week during these years of slaclf
operation was doled out as charity
might be after investigation had
shown that the man's family was in
need.
"To supplement the boon thus
granted, baskets of food were dfatrib
uted to the most needy, and the cost
of the food was later deducted from
the husband's or father's wages. The
company also donated $1,000 a year
to the Charity Organization Society:
"The. Republic Iron and Steel com­
pany gave $500 as its annual contri­
bution. The management of the Car
negie Steel company, a member of
the United States Steel Corporation^
refused to give anything. The au­
thority for the foregoing statements
Charles Dickens, Thackeray, Burns,
Shelley, Hood and Shakespeare, fol­
lowed by history and books on eco­
nomics. For years his opportunities
have been limitless to enter the busi­
ness or political world, or upon the
public platform.
His capacity with the knowledge
which he has gained, to make money
for. himself is almost beyond Compu­
tation. Recognizing his ability on the
platform, many Chautauqua societies
and organisers of chautauquas, book­
ing concerns, etc., have each year
presented feim with, flattering •offiera
for the platform,, but lie has stead­
fastly refused to accept any of tha
offers proffered.
Steadfastly For Xabor.
The year 1894. following his only
defeat for President of the Axnttteftnf
Federation of lAbor, innumerable
offers were made to him" to, enter ,a'
mercantile and) political life, and'
while he was practically without a'
dollar, he refused to accept any
them.
His greatest jledre to to em­
ployed In the great -wrork of uplift, Sa
exemplified in the activities of tha
American Federation if iAhf
I
.a
•U,
y\
