The St. Tammnnr yarmer .
_ _ _ _ f..
D. H. MASON, Editor COVINGTON, LA., SATURDAY, JANUARY 29, 1916. VOL. XLII No, 10
'BIG EDUCATORS OF TIlE STATE MEET INCOVINGTON ANDVISIT PARISH SCHOOS1
ork for Educational Adancement in RuralSchool Instruction in St.. Tammany Paris
GATHE.ING OF .UPERINTENDEOF
EDUCATION OF DFFREN PARISHES
HEADED BY STATE SIT. T. H. HARRIS
St. Tammany Parish Rural Schools Chosen Because of the Prog
ress Made in Consolidated Schools by Supt. Lyon and the Effort
to Make Education Fit Needs of the People of the Section.
Talisheek and Central Schools Chosen for Inspection.
The holding of a convention of
parish superintendents at Covington
is a compliment to St. Tammany par
ish and an acknowledgment of the
excellent results that have been ob
tained by the systematic and pro
gressive course pursued by Supt.
Lyon. It is not claimed that St.
Tammany parish is the farthest ad
vanced in its system of rural school
work, but the rapidity with which it
has progressed by consolidation of
schools and the adoption of new
thought in th3 education of the
rural school pupil for the position
he or she may be called upon to fil
is so prominent in contrast with
the old and the new as to make the
lesson remarkably impressive. The
old and the new school houses, but
a year or two apart, stand as x
amples. The school attendance and
the manifest interest of teacher and
pupil are linked with the evidence
of better results.
The schools chosen for demon
strating the improvement made are
the Talisheek and the Central, in
the sixth ward, because these two
schools are best equipped for carry
on improved rural school work, in
eluding agricultural and domestic
science teaching. Hot beds have
been prepared for garden work. The
domestic science departments have
cases of carpenter tools, good sew
ing machines, oil, stoves, libraries
with Enclycopedias, works on agri
culture, bulletins issued by the U. S.
Government and the State, sections
of the various trees showing the
.growth, grain and texture of wood;
cabinets of spices and material used
in cooking; microscope for examina
tion of insects or fibers or any pro
duct under discussion; engravings il
lustrating historical incidents. The
Central school has a very interesting
exhibit of products from corn, such
as oil, sugar and feed stuffs, by the
American Manufacturing Association
of Chicago, and among the library
books are such as Industrial Evolu
tion of the United States, by Carroll
D. Wright; Principles of Agricul
ture, by Bailey; General Science, by
Clark; Good Housekeeping, etc.
p,(ach.,4 these schools have boti
'th Nstional Air Heaters of the Ex
celsior Stove Mfg. Co., and the Smith
System of-Heating, which as well as
gtvlag an evenly regulated tempera
tms insure proper ventilation. They
also have the improved adjustible
steindeks.
Both schools also teach the differ
eta parts of the beef and their food
using the Kauffman-Latimer
rt, and teach farm account
an: p ofit, using the Farm
ord, ;urnished by the St.
y Ban:: & Trust Co. Also a
tof soils and divisions of the
from a parish map. In fact,
the w~ork may be said to be in
cy there is a good founds
r further advancement, and
reading table furnishes newspa
p I(magazines and other literature
d~ a tmst to the pupils.
Tp Talisheek school has eighty
pupils, the teachers being
r!P. A. Ross, principal; Miss Ella
ft, graduate of Newcomb College
loti Science Department, and
..ra Abel. ,Miss Paine is teach
be pupils to cut patterns from ;
easurement and do sewing that i:
uired in the household.
The Talisheek two-room school
lding was built two years ago at ;
epat of $1575, and since then a
oem for domestic science has been
ded at a cost of $899. The Con-I1
I . chool was also built two years/
o at a cost of $1675, and the add
third room cost $899. The Au
dlubon two-rodm school house cost|,
$1500. The site donated by A. D.
awford.
Site of lTalisheek school was do- I
ted by Thomas & Parker.
Trustees: Warren Thomas, Wal
Parker, Claude Bilbo. H. Q. I
ker paris board member.
rof. S. L. Taylor is principal of i
Central School. Miss Marcia :
s, who is a Tulane graduate and ]
kmhas had wide experience in the 4
g of domestic science, would [
a friend of any man through a.
verbial process of feeding him I
her own cooking. she is teach- a
this art. Miss Annie Smith,
-aher of sewing, is a graduate of I
o- Southwestern Industrial Insti- 4
tate of Lafayette. The school also I
has three rooms, with sixty-seven I
pupils.
SThe Geo. H. Gause heirs donated .(
-nd to the school and it is intended 1
to add more to the tract later on r
The trustees of the school are: I
t)ave Evans, Win. Welsh, Russell I
Singletary, Theodore Moran and
Isaac Singletary. School board mem- ,
ebr, H. Q. Parker.
- The Audubon school is a two-room
i.hool that, while not as well eqluip
Spresented a remarkably nest ap
pearance and has an instructor in
its principal, Prof. Ernest G. Le
fleur, who is finely fitted by edu
cation and experience for the work.
He is assisted by -liss Mamie Braig.
The program of inspected schools
included second grade number work;
practical spelling, third and fourth
grades; agricultural arithmetic, sixth
and seventh grades; ocalr geography,
fourth and fifth grades; agriculutre,
seventh grade; lunch 'served by do
mestic science class; demonstration
lesson, sewing; demonstration les
son, cooking; demonstration canning,
direction Miis Martha Williams; dis
cussion of work by superintendent
and principal; general discussion led
by State Superintendent Harris.
Luncheon was served at the Tall
sheek school by Miss Ella Palile and
her class of ten girls,- Panny May
Fatheree, Zelma Ryals, Rowena Kahl
Audrey Richardson, Marie Beder,
Ethel Parker, Myra, Parker, Ida
Parker, Jessie Jones, Maggile 'Baugh
man.
The menu, well cooked and nicely
served, was: - Vegetable soup, home
made bread, chicken salad and may
onalise dressing, stuffed eggs, stuffed
olives and saltines, angel food, choc
olate and jelly eake, divinity fudge,
cocoanut candy and coffee.
The entire work of the school and
the splendid reception accorded the
guests was appreciated.
Dinner was served at the Central
school by Mis -Davies and her class
of 13, Mary Srmith, Tena E~tis, Ella
Moran, Lena Moran, Icy Moran, Bes
sie Moran, Icy Evans, Ida Single
tary, Alice Sharp, Lucille Sharp, Beu
lah Smith, Nettle Evans, Louise Ken
nedy.
The excellent menu was well cook
ed and served.- It consisted of roast
chicken, green peas, rice, tomato
salad, mayonaise dressing, ham and
potato salad, pineapple ambrosia,
cake, coffee, chocolate fudge.
The faculty is Prof. S. L. Taylor,
Miss Annie Smith and Miss Marcia
Davies.
The Association of Commerce fur
nished eight automobiles for the use
of the visitors, and President Warner
and Mr. E. G. Davis, of the associa
tion, very courteously did what they
could to make it pleasant for them
Following is the list of those at
tending the convention and visiting
the schools: State Supt. Harris;
Dr. Dowling; C. M. Hughes, east Bat
on Rouge; E. R. Waller, East Felici
ana; John E. Cone, Livingston; J. C.
Ellis, Jefferson; Clement Story, St.
Bernard; J. C. Blanchard, Plaque
mines; E. E. Ortego, Evangeline; H.
P. Brousard, Ascension; J. B. Mar
tin, St. Charles; D. H. Stringfleld,
Washington; Alonzo MoFarland,
Pointe Coupee; E. S. Richardson,
junior extension work, L. S. U.; C. J.
Brown, chief rural achool supervis
or; J. W. Bateman, head of depart
ment of rural education State Nor
-mal; John R. Coniff, chairman teach
ers examining committee and insti
tute conductor; C. A. Ives, state high
school inspector; W. H. Kahb, 5th
ward member of parish board; C. M.
Liddle, 9th ward member parish
school board; N. H. FitsSimons, pres
ident parish school board.
Mrs. N. H. FitaSimons, Mrs. El
mer E. Iqon, Mrs. J. C. Burns and
Mrs E. R. Moses were with the visit
ing party at the schools.
The day was rainy throughout and
prevented the attendance of the la
dies, the only one present being Mrs.
N. H. FitsSimons, secretary of the
School Improvement League. The
convention was comfortably seated
in the large dining-room of the New
Southern Hotel and was presided
over by State Supt. Harris, who an
nounced that six subjects would be
discussed: school house and equip
ment; libraries; school sanitation;
industrial work; rural school essen- I
tials; homes for country teachers. a
He said that the purpose of the
visit was to inspect a few country
schools of modern types, with good
school grounds, that employed good 1
school teachers, etc. That the two 4
country schools visited had excellent a
plants, and that both schools were 1
equlpped with modern furniture, had 4
good light and were sanitary. He
complimented the parish on the rapid i
improvement it was making and the (
general conduct of its schools.
Superintendent 'Lyon was then
called upon to.lead in the discussiosn I
of the evening and spoke quite at a
length on the question of school I
eqlipment. The subjects were taken I
up ia their oeder and were led by I
the following superihtendents: Supt. I
lon; Supt. Wller, of East Pellelt.
sna; Dr. I.wllng, presidesit State i
Board of Health; J. W. Bataman, of
State Normnal School; Supt. Cramp,
if W.est Feliciana~ Supt. Haghes, of I
giit Baton Rouge.
- Dr. Dowlings4a)k-wah aIoihrWs: I
r. Ddntw:ddBAd& ..
ir. President:- 1
If I were eaked what ia qipgt -S
ion is the most desired utility of
modern life, I would not name the
electric light, the railroad, the te'e
phone, the automobile-but I woull
name serweage in the home. If I
were asked to be specfiic, as to the
sanitary defect which is the cause of
the greatest loss of life and tile
greatest number of cases of illness,
I should say without hesitation, care
less disposal of waste-the kind that
is a transmitting agent of disease
In places where morbidity and mor
tality reports are recorded, it has
been found that enteric troublet--
diarrhoea, typhoid, etc.--form us \
large proportion of the illness of the
community. As we are without data
in Iouisiana, except for a few citipe
we can not make positive statements.
But we know that in rural coznmu
nities, even in many of our towns
and cities, there is much more sick
ness of this kind than there should
b3 with its consequences in lowered
vitality and less of workinu po ver.
Since January, 1914, we have been
sending from the Board of Healta
office cards to all physicians asking
that they return with records of cas
es of communicable diseases. Al i
though there is no.expense attached.
about twenty-five per cent of the
doctors only send in the reports.
But even with this number we are
able to make some estimate of case: i
of typhoid fever in the State and the
.igures are anything but reassuring.
There is too little responsibility for
a supply of good, clean water. In
many schools the drinking water is
from a well in depth only a few feet,
or from a cistern which has not
been cleaned possibly since it was
bauilt. In the matter of conveniences
it is even worse. Yet potable water
and proper disposal of waste are two
of the essentials in the protection
of health and equally so in its con
servation.
You may recall in this connection
the survey of three neighborhoods
made last year by the Board 'of
Health in one of the parishes in the
western part of the State. Condi
tions there are not unusual. The
total nunfber of homes visited was
1I5. In 115 the source of the
drinking water was from surface
wells; 33 had closets of the old style
insanitary type--a menace to healtl
'because of faulty construction and
lack of cleanliness-and 92 had no
closet of "any kind.
(Continued on page 2)
Brewster Wins by a Majority that Shows His
Popularity to be Greater Even than When He
First Ran for the Office Sixteen Years Ago
Frederick Wins in Clerk's Fight, Crawford Wins Assessorship, With
Talk of Contest, Delos R. Johnson's Remarkable Victory
Shows the People Have Watched His Work in the
House, F. J. Heintz Takes it All, and There Will
Be Second Primary for Some Offices.
In some respects the election last
Tuesday w'as the most interesting
held in &any years. In the sheriff's
fight practically the only issue was
the question of whether a man
should be maintained in office for a
succeeding number of terms. There
was no contention that the office had
been mismanaged. There was no
claim that Brewster had not made
a good asheriff. I twas simply said
that Brewster had had the office long
enough and another man should have
a chance at it. And the people an
swered by giving Brewster the larg
est majority he 'has ever had, and
the largest, as well as we can remem
ber, that any sheriff of this parish
has had. The election also demon
strated that Brewster, during his
four terms of office, has been able
to keep his own ward so harmon
lously loyal to him that its vote is
praetically unanimous for him.
There were but 11 votes against him.
His majority in the parish was 417.
Frederick won over Smith by a
majority of 351 for clerk of court,
and Crawford won over Koepp for
assesor by a majority of 26. There
is talk of a contest over this office.
7. J. .Heints, ~or re-election as
tat. --prhsentative, had a walk
over, his majority belgO 10O0.
Some of the Educators in Attendance at Superintendents' Convention.
bute Superintendent T. H. Harris.
Supt. E. E. Lyon.
L. C. Heintz and H. D. Bulloch
will be in the second primary.
Heintz's plurality over Bulloch was
199.
J. S. Settoon and Delos R. John
son were elected to the senate from
this the 19th district. The vote was
Settoon 4021; Johnson 5212; Alford
2722. Bankston figures not at hand.
iMr. Johnson will be a new member'
in the senate. Notwithstanding the
fact that he comes from a dry par
ish, his work in the House of Rep
resentatives was a recommendation
that could not be overlooked, and
St. Tammany parish gave him tle
largest vote of any parish in the dis
trict except his home parish, Wash
ington, which cast 15 more votes,
1400 to 1385.
Pleasant got a big majority in this
parish, but the correct figures are
not available. In the third ward
Pleasant. got 225, Barret 104, and
Claiborne got the largest vote for
lieutenant governor, 154, the next
higher vote being 94 for Mouton.
Millsaps got the highest vote for at
torney general, 162 Bailey for sec
retary of state, 176; Cpadeville for
auditor, 239; Collins: for state treas
urer, 190; Gllsson for register of
state land office, 235. The parish
figures will not be available until
the Parish Executive Committee
meets today.
t'
/e
Supt. R. E. gip.
The following police jury mem
bers were elected:
Ward 1, Louis Peters, no opposi
tion; ward 4, J. M. Smith; ward 7,
Winm. .Davis; ward 8, H. J. Schaeider;
ward 9, J. B. Howze; Ward 10, R. C.
Abney, no opposition.
Following candidates for police
jury member will run in second pri
mary:
Ward 2, W. A. Hood and W. M.
Galloway; ward 3, E. J. I)omergue
and Louis Pilaud; Ward 5, T. A.
Mitchell and S. R. Cowart; ward 6,
H. Q. Parker and Fletcher Crawford.
Returns at han dshow that Louis
F. Pechon and iRabt. W. Bafdon were
Ward....................... 1 -2- 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 'Tote
-0
Representative
F. J. Heintz .......... 196 155 96 331 11 151 141 39 49 117 91 1557
P. A. Hursey ................... 27 29 32 79 42 27 27 24, 34 152 84 507
Sheriff
T. E. Brewster .................. 250 107 64 250 138 78 79 36 67 180 61 1810
A. J. Planche .................. 11 89 72 181 104 104 118 27 22 96 69 893
Clerk of Court
E. J. Frederick ................. 115 143 71 259 134 124 113 39 62 137 60 1257
A. V. Smith .................... 138 48 63 ..169 103 60 78 24 28 137 63 905
Assessor
A. D. Crawford ................. 10 126 70 19OF 90 117 146 24 59 192 73 1097
Geo. Koepp, Jr., ................ 40 79 69 25' 159 64 47 37 81 75 54 1071
Coroueer-1
H.D. Bulloch ................... 2 73 86 124 " 48 64 79 24 27 11 34 71,
Heintz ..................... 1 30' 20 141 `Ah27 80 85 26 60 132 56 "90
... ................ - 62 7677 79 11I*` 60 40 27 11 1 32 87 U&
I,
i.
tt
Ji. 3I. Ioote.
Stste Supervisor o Rural Schools.
C. J. Brown.
State Inspector of Rural Schools.
Supt. E. R. WaLer.
elected justices of the peace in the
third ward; B. Houghton, Sr., ninth
ward; J. D. Thomas, fifth ward.
Supt. D. H. Strlgfdd.
Harry D. Wilson, commiasioner of
agriculttre and immigration, receit
ed a large plurality in this parish.
