Qf
NIGHT
EXTRA
jcuenmg
m-
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, JAN U A It Y 2!), 110.
COI'TIUOHT, 1D10, St Till! PCStta I.T.MIK CoMTiNT.
PUIOE ONE.OENT
NIGHT
EXTRA.
VOL. II.-NO. 118
"DEFEND LIFE
OF NATION,"
SAYS WILSON
President Pleads for Pre
paredness in Address
i at Pittsburgh
TWO POWDER
VICTIMS DIE;
PLOT HINTED
Workmen Assert Several
Others Perished in Fires
at Carney's Point
GOVERNOR WEDS HERE TODAY
r
V
i
S:
is
n
srv
I
TELLS OF NATION'S DUTY
U. S. Must Preserve Unity of
Western Hemisphere as Well
as Its Own Peace
PITTSBURGH, Jnn. . "Wo wnnt to
defend tlio llfo of thin nation against
Interference nnd tho unity of the West
ern Hemisphere," declnretl President Wll
Bon In his address on "Propaiodnoss," be
foro WOO men and women who Jammed
(Memorial Hall.
" Ho urKcd that support bo Riven tho
Administration's plan to bring tho Army
and Navy up to a condition where It
could meet on Invading force on terms
at least somewhere near equal.
D. P. Black, piesldent of tho Pltts
burnh Chamber of Commerce, Introduced
former Congressman James 1'. Burke,
who presented tho President to tho audi
ence. Tho chief executive, after express
ing appreciation of tho enthusiastic dem
onstration Riven him nnd Mrs. AVIIson,
Immediately launched Into his subject.
"As your servant and representative I
should como nnd report to you on our
public affairs." ho bcRan. "It Is tho duty
of every public man to hold frank counsel
with tho pcoplo ho represents."
Ho then said the subject on which he
spoko demanded such counsel.
"There liavo been many views expressed
on tho question of national defense," he
continued. "Some of theso proceed from
sentiment. I do not feel free to criticise
any of those, for this Is u country of
frco expression.
"I lovo pence," ho went on. "Hut pcaco
costs something. Tho best way to main
tain It Is to Rain tho respect of others."
"There aro other countries, tho sourco
of whoso counsel aro titles. But It Is not
wlso to bo RUlded by tho Impulses of
passion. America does not deslro any
thing that any other country enn glvo It
aside from Justice nnd friendship.
"I havo tried to bo neutral, not only In
my acts, but In my fcellnR. It Is hard
to keep tho Judgment cuot when tho world
Is running red with blood. It Is hard to
keep tho passion of sympathy under con
trol of tho coolness of Judgment.
"While wo ndmiro tho zeal of tho pro
fessional enthusiast, I would not wish to
be guided by him.
WHAT AMERICA .MUST DBFKND,
"What la It," ho asked, "that wo havo
to defend? Wo want to defend the llfo
of this nation against Interference nnd
Ihe'unlty of the Western Hemisphere.
And In their defenso our thought must go
beyond our own border. America stands
lor tno soycreiKiny ui n 1.tv.i,..
'of each of us. It must consist of all of
us. I havo a groat enthusiasm for ren
dering America spiritually efllclent, and
mis involves military cmcieiu:-.
"We want merely nn nrmy aulllclcnt
to presorvo peace," ho went on, "nnd wo
want back of It n spirit which shows
Continued on Face Three, Column Tiro
GERMANS TAKE
ARTOIS TRENCHES
IN GREAT DRIVE
Storm French Positions at
Neuville and Capture
Mile of Defenses
OFFICIAL BERLIN REPORT
BERLIN. Jan. 29.
In tho greatest German offensive on
the western front in many months, the
Germans have captured nearly n mile of
French trenches In tho Artols region and
have captured the vlllago of Frlsa nnd
1000 yards of French trenches south of
the River Somme.
Tho War Otllce announced this after
noon that about 1200 French prisoners
were taken. The double offensive was
launched early yesterday.
"Northwest of the farm of Laerolle,
northeast of Neuville, tho Hermans
stormed 1B0O yards of enemy trenches,
capturing 237 enemy soldiers, among them
one ofllcer," said tho official statement.
"They nlso took nine machine guns. Hev-
eral French attacks against our positions
Jnear Neuville recently taken by tho Ger
mans broke down, though the enemy
succeeded In occupying a mine crater.
"In the western part of the vlllago of
8lnt Allaura, near Arrals, the Germans
tprmed and took from the French a
group of houses,
'South of tho River Somnio the Ger
w5s captured the village of Frlse and
1000 yards of French positions connected
with It. Further southward the Germans
tookilj officers and 927 French soldiers
prisoners. They also captured 13 ma
chine guns nnd four mine-throwers.
"Soth of Llhons a derman recon
nolterpg detachment advanced to the
enemya second-line trenches nnd took
several prisoners, returning without loss
to the former positions.
"In tip Champagne lively artillery and
CVni
tlnued 'on Tate Four, Columu One
I
TE WEATHER
it FORECAST
For Piladelphia and vicinity
Cloudy tinight and Sunday, with
probahly tn; slightly warmer to
night; wanner Sunday; moderate
easterly wifda, '
LOlI AND FOUND
CERTIKICATeW 871 for ten (10) fhiret yt
F n Hock of. h union Trust Company. In
(PDllCEtloq hijteen mads to tho Mtrchanti
Union Trust Crapany for tbo tisuaoco of a
Book?
"w crncaiui pl&ca tnfreor.
jjjk uast. FTch book. a medical saute.
Nemesis Madkia BTr Julc Fabre, Paris.
;. luw&ra ireiurnaa q vr. a. i,w.
( Morris. 13U Space.
Other Leat andfound Ads on I'aie 19
Zapp aad Birsky
400 QUIT THEIR JOBS
Some Employes Say Agents of
Nations Opposed to Allies
Started Blazes
Tuo nf the seven men who wcro In
line,! In the five fires nt tho Carney's
Point plant of the dti I'ont Powder Com
pany, a mile below rennsgrovo, N. .1 ,
on tho Dclawaro opposlto Wilmington,
yesterday afternoon and last night, died
today. Ono other Is dying, nnd four nro
In a critical condition nnd may not re
cover. Ono of those hilled lived In Cam
den, nnd two of tho Injured nro Phlln
delphlans. Workmen- declared today their belief
thnt It would bo found that several olhr
men had been killed nnd their bodies
Incinerated In tho destruction of live
buildings nnd 1S0.0OT pounds of powder.
Tho loss Is $173,000.
Tho 20,000 employes nro horror-stricken
by tho catastrophe. It was estimated that
100 had given up their positions today, nnd
others said openly that thoy believed tho
company had concealed tho fact that men
wero killed dally at Carney's Point, and
they did not raro whether their saying
so meant tho loss of their Jobs or not.
Tho company denied reports thnt Incen
diarism was suspected, but employes bc
Ilevo tho llre.i wcro caused by agents nf
nations opposed to tho Allies. Tho casual
ties: DEAD.
I.AUUi:.VCn HOW. IS tnrs old. nf port Pine
Rircot, Cimilcn. tho son of Mrs. C. 11 Ilronki
llurno'l In nil mirtu of hn.lv. Dleil this
ninrnlnB of lnjnrlca, nt retnnro Hospital
V tlmlngton, whero all tho Injured wcro
tnkrn
rilKDRIUCIC FITZ. of Hearting. In.. Imrnea
ill,ocr body. Died this mornliw of In
juries. m-iNo.
WILLIAM WALLA CK. IlnKlen. Pa., seriously
burned on tho liody.
snniot'SLv injurkd.
J. H. WILLIAMS, address not known, burned
on fnco nncl body. .
rann STAItLlNO. niMrrrs not knonn
HARRY MILLUR, .1211 Houtll iM street, rillln-
rtt'lnhlj, liurned on face.
DAVID HI3LI cm Dleklnnn street. Phlladel-
phln, burneil on furo nnd lmnrtK.
It was an hour beforo tho men could
bo taken on tho ferryboat to Wilmington.
Fltz, Holt nnd Wnllaco wcro unconscious
when they were taken from tho boat and
put Into ambulances
Holt was only 18 years old and had been
working nt Carncys Point only since
Monday. Ho lived -with his mother, Mrs.
C. n. Brooks, at tir home, DOS Pino
street, Camden. Mrs. Brqoks left Cam
den for Wilmington this morning, to sco
her son; unconscious tor hours, bo died
shortly, after nho. arrived at tho hospital.
Two brothers bf youh'g Holt nro employed
nt tho plant, nnd, tho threo young men
spent Sunday wjth heir mother. Sho
urged them to ut careful In their new
work, becauso of tho dajiger It Involved.
It wns at first reported nt tho hospltnl
that Miller and Bell wero "tho least hurt
of tho surviving flvo injured mon," but
later In tho dat physicians said that all
flvo wcro in a critical condition nnd that
any or all of them might dlo today.
It was, learned tcday that every officer
of tho du Pont powder corporation had
received threatening letters. Including
members of tho du Pont family. It was
said that each of these men hnd a strong
bodygunrd about him all tho time. As to
what tho reason for theso threats could
be, officials of tho company, who admit
ted tho truth of tho statement that
threats had been made against tho lives
of officers, refused to make conjectures,
but It was generally believed In Wilming
ton thnt tho threats wero made either by
wbrkmen at tho plant or members of
tholr families or by agents of foes of the
Allied Powers for which tho ponder Is
made.
An Investigation was started today by
Major Itlchard Sylvester, who Is In
Continued on 1'nito Three, Column Three
$1,000,000 Yacht Aground
JACKSONVILLE, Fin., Jan. 2D.-IIarry
raj no Whitney's Captive, tho largest
power yacht alloat, Is hard aground near
Daytonn, and Is certain to bo destroyed
In the first storm. Whitney nnd a fishing
party arrived In tho vessel from New
York a few days ago. The yacht Is val
ued at H.OOO.OOO. ,
Illinois County Partly Under Water
JACKSONVILLE, III., Jan. 29. Grceno
County, III., was partially under water
toduy following the breaking of tho levee
protecting tho Hartwcll drainage district.
Forty feet of tho levee broko under the
pressuro of the flood waters of tho Il
linois Itlver
WINTRY BLASTS TURN
BACK ON 'SPRINGTIME'
i .
Bluebird ' Weather Disappears
During Night and Cold Snap
Is Pushing Forward
The backbone of the hot wave If it has
a backbone was broken about midnight
while Phlladelphlans slumbered. Wherl
they awoke this morning they found the
cold wave from the West -outside their
windows shoving the mercury dofn to
below freezing.
A drop In 14 hours of 36 degrees is what
tho city experienced. The lowest tem
perature this morning was 31 at 7 o'clock.
The maximum yesterday afternoon was
67 a new record, by the way, for the
warmest January 28, and the last gasp
of the eight-day period ending nt mid
night which set a new record for the
warmest eight-day period of winter.
It will get colder, for the cold wave
that's here today Is the same which mada
the mercury go down to 54 degrees below
zero at Havre, Mont. Tho barometer here
Is high, meaning th air is dry. and at 8
a in an ominous shift In the wind, from,
the southwest all the way around to
northeast, was recorded.
It's blowing at a rate of 16 miles an
hour, doubling Its velocity of yesterday.
Ungrateful Tramp Disturbs CpfTvent
A tramp named Doran. who applied
for a meal at the Mount St. Joseph's
convent. City line and Germanfown ave
nue, this morning, became obstreperous
after he had eaten and disturbed the
peace and quiet of thejconvent for nearly
an hour before a pollcoWn arrested him.
Discuss the Tjials and Tribulations of the President on Page
1 M sMlllf...iiMliWBWinrfMimil'IIIW.lMWUIMUI
Above is Miss Flora Relic Parks, who today will become Mrs. Martin
G. Brumbaugh. At the left is the bridegroom. On the right is the
Rev. George Dilling Kuna, who is to perform the ceremony.
GERMANY MUST
-lEEflJEMANDS
TO AVERT CRISIS
No Time Limit Set, but U.S.
Insists on Lusitania
Disavowal
SITUATION IS ACUTE
WASHINGTON. Jan. 23. Tho Admin
istration definitely has decided not to
waste any tlmo on further parleys with
Germany over tho submarlno situation.
That Is tho reason. It was definitely learn
ed today, why Secretury Lansing Informed
Count von Hernstorff last Wednesday that
President Wilson must Insist thnt tho
Berlin foreign ofllco disavow tho sinking
of tho Lusitania. Tho pteecdent III that
cbho will bo tho governing factor In nil
furthor negotiations with tho Teutonic al
lies dealing with submarlno activities and
President Wilson haH determined that It
shall bo flxed without further delay.
No tlmo limit was given Germany with
in whloli to reply. Secretary Lansing
took tho position In his talk with tho
German Ambassador that such action
would savor of an ultlmntum, and would
complicate tho situation. Hut ho made
It very plain to tho Ambassador in a
friendly manner that tho belief that the
negotiations were.not Intended to bs satis
factory was growing both In his mind and
In that of President Wilson.
Secretary Lansing, It Is learned on au
thority, still considers the situation
fraught with grave possibilities. He and
tho President nro admitted to havo ngreed
on a course of action should Germany
refuse to disavow the sinking of the Lu
sitania In language that villi leavo no
iloubt of Its meaning. It Is considered
certain that this plan calls for a breaking
off of diplomatic relations, Just as orig
inally was olanneil, nnd that If tho reply
from Ilcrlln, which Is expected not. later
than next Tuesday, Is unsatisfactory,
then a now note, official and couched In
very plain language, will go forward to
Berlin.
"We are hoping for tho best, but pre
pared for tho worst." Is the way that n
leading olllclal of the State Department
summed up tho situation today. "Theso
negotiations must be wound up Imme
diately. If Oermany will not do so of
her own Initiative, then the United States
will have to forco her hand, oven at tho
risk of becoming Involved In the Euro
pean war."
Officials, were hopeful that the presence
In Uerlln at this time of Colonel House
would help the .German Foreign Office to
realize the serious view which President.
Wilson takes of tho situation. Colonel
House knows President Wilson's mind,
and since he reached Berlin he has re
ceived fpm the State Department sev
eral lengthy code messages which are be
lieved to have explained In great detail
the reasons why the United States can
not consent to any further long-drawn-out
parleys.
Unless Germany shall make material
concessions' a real crisis In the relations
between 'the two countries cannot much
longer be averted.
Train Kills Deer Near Thorndalo
WEST CHESTER. Pa.. Jan. 29.-One
of the 10 deer at large in Chester County
was killed last night by a train on the
main line of the Pennsylvania Railroad
Company near Thorndale. The animal
was one of the largest and oldest which
escaped some years ago from a preserve
near Glenloch. Three others escaped Injury.
BRANDEIS MAY
BE CONFIRMED
BY CLOSE VOTE
Surprise Over Appointment
Subsides Senators Now
Open to Conviction
LONG FIGHT LOOMS UP
WASHINGTON, Jan. 2i). Ily tho
.closest voto by which a Supreme Court
Justice over has been approved, Louis
D. Rraudels will bo confirmed as suc
cessor of Justlcn Lamar, reliable Indica
tions wero today. The forco of tho sur
prl&o and opposition which at first swept
tho Senate had largely subsided and
many Senators, who at flrBt wero non
committal or hostile, nro saying now they
uro open to conviction.
Especially Is this true among the con
servative Democrats, who havo learned
that President Wilson Is prepared to
mako as aggressive a fight as may be
necessary.
Rut a long fight looms ahead, with
presidential aspirations, sectional nnd
racial feelings, senatorial traditions and
party politics Involved. It Is practically
certain hearings will be ordered by the
Senate Judiciary Committee, which mocts
Monday. If tho charges of personal un
fitness can not bo proved ngalnst
Drnndels, Senator Weeks, presidential
candidate, can be expected to mako a
fight on tho ground that UrnndelH Is
personally offensive to him. This "rule"
of the .Senate gives any member tho right
to veto the appointment of any man
from his State.
This light President Wilson will court.
Already he has had one appointment,,
that of Federal Trade Commissioner
Kubleo. fall of confirmation because of
the rule, Senator Galllnger being the ob
jector, Tho Ilrandels and Rubles fights will
be tied up. It was learned today that
the chief reason Rubtee was fought last
session by Senator Reed, Missouri,
and his allies, was because of his In
timacy with Brandels. By forcing on tho
Senate the confirmation or rejection of
Brandels, President Wilson will compel
that body to test "senatorial courtesy"
in the full view of the public.
Presidential politics will figure from
the first. Strongly for the confirmation
Continued on l'oco Two, Column Four
PIXCHOT ATTACK QN WATER
POWER TRUSTJSTIRS SENATE
Smoot Assails Charges, While Others
Demand Printing of Document
WASHINGTON, Jan. S3. - Charges of
Glfford Pinchot, president of the National
Conservation Association, that the water
power fruit report had been buried in tho
Senate Printing Committee provoked a
bitter fight on the Senate floor today.
Senator Smoot of Utah vigorously flayed
Mr, Pinchot, referring to his charges as
"bulldoilng." Many progressive Sen
ators came to Mr. Pinchot's rescue and
Insisted that the report should be printed
as a public document.
The report reveals the existence of a
gigantic nation-wide water power monop
oly, Senator Smoot objected to the cost
ofWrlnting-121,000. Seniftors Borah,
FlMr and others Insisted the cost was.
notlHW compared to the Importance of
the report.
BRUMBAUGH TO
WED WARD AND
COUSIN TODAY
Miss Flora Belle Parks,
Housekeeper, to Become
Governor's Wife
BRIDE IS W YEARS OLD,
Rumors Placed Affections Else
where, but Friends Not
Surprised
Facts About Governor
and "Governor's Lady"
THE GOVERNOR
Ito is till years old. Wns born
in Huntiiifrilun County, Pa.
Has been Governor since Janu
ary 1!), 101(1.
A member oC the Church oC tho
Brethren.
Has been Commissioner of Edu
cation at Porto Rico, professor of
pcdaRocy in tho University of
Pennsylvania and Superintendent
of Schools of Philadelphia.
Has n son, Edwin, an architect,
married about a year ap;o, and a
daughter, Miss Mnbel BrumbaUKh,
teacher in the Friends' School,
17th street and Girard 'avenue.
THE "GOVERNOR'S LADY"
She is M years old.
A cousin of' tho bridegroom
("fifth degree") nnd his ward.
Known as a "handy girl around
tho house."
Described by Doctor Brumbaugh
as tho "girl with common sense."
, Was born at Entrikin, Pa.
Like the Governor, sho is a
Pennsylvania German.
The bride is a moderately tall
and stout brunette.
Was housekeeper for first Mrs.
Brumbaugh and continued in that
capacity after Mrs. Brumbaugh's
death.
Member of Brumbaugh house
hold for 20 years.
Governor Mnitln Grove Brumbaugh will
bo married this afternoon to .Miss Klor.i
Hello Parks his distant cousin, ward and
housekeeper. lie Is C3; sho Is II.
Tho Governor has been a widower ox
actly a. year nnd socn months today.
Ills llrst wlfo died Juno :. 1911.
Tho wedding will tnko plncn nt 1:30
o'clock In tho Church of the Brothien,
noxt door to (Mil Cermnntoivn nxenue,
of which tho IIov. M. C Swlgnrt Is pastor.
Ho will bo assisted In tho ceremony by
tho Rev. George Dlltlng Kuns, pastor of
tho First Brethren Church, of which tho
Governor Is n momber.
Tho Dunknrd ceremony will bo used,
nnd oven It In its oidlnary simplicity will
not bo used In full. Governor Brumbaugh
requested especial simplicity, ul said,
"ho wanted to get it over ns (illicitly ns
possible." There will be about -10 guests.
GOVHRNOU CONGRATULATED.
Tho Gocinor, accompanied by his
secretary, Wllllum II. Hall, visited tho
offices of Attorney General Kinncis
Shunk Brown, In tho Morris Building,
dm lug tho noon hour. On leaving tho
building ho was neegsted with:
"Congratulations, Governor."
"Don't you think you'ro a little prema
ture," ho replied.
I to was then asked for tho tlmo and
plnco of the wedding.
"You will get It nil officially at tho
proper tlmo," said tho Governor with
emphasis.
Attorney General Brown, when ques
tioned, said- "Not a word from me."
Ball lefuscd to talk at all.
Ball and the Governor leaped Into nn nu
tomobllo which was sent over, and wero
driven to Walnut street, then west. At
31th nnd Walnut streets tho chauffeur got
out and bought a newspaper.
RACES NEWSPAPER AUTO.
At 35th and Walnut they stopped and
bought another newspdpor. Then they
drove to Wth street, tho Governor nnd
Secretary Ball reudlng papers meanwhile.
At 40th street tho machine turned north,
went to 3Mt Lancaster avenue, a saloon
and cafe conducted by J. P. .Judge, n
friend of tho Uovernor's. Governor Brum
baugh and Secretary Ball had luncheon
there.
"Wlo gehts my old friend Judge," was
the Governor's greeting to tho proprietor,
who then led them to a private dining
room.
When the Governor learned that a news
papermen's car was following him, he
Continued on Page Tour, Column Tno
L'URAGANORITARDA
LACADUTADIDURAZZO
Gli Austrinci Cercano Ora di
Corrompere Essad Pascin'
Che E' a Sud di Durazzo
Un lelesramma da Roma dice cho
nell'Albanla si hanno vlolentl uraganl che
hanno arrestato per il momento la marcla
delle forzo nustrlache e bulgare verso la
cltta' dl Durazzo che e' Ifloro Immedlato
oblettlvo. Nel frattempo perp' aeeutl
austrlacl si trovano a Durazzo e tentano
dl guadagnare 1'amlcizia dl Kssad pascla',
che a Durazzo ha concentrate sotto i suol
ordlnl numcrose bands albansesl. Si dice
che Essad fcl e' rltlrato ora un po" a
sud dl Durazzo, dove II terreno si presta
megllo alia dlfesa.
II generate Cadorna ha annunclato che
le truppe itallane operantl nella zona a
norri-ovest dl Qorlzla, cloe' nel settore dl
Ostavla, hanno rlconqulstato parte delle
trlncee perdute da loro nella notte del
24 corrente. quando gll austrlacl attac
carrono la prima linen itallana con 'forze
supc tori e nella nebbla. Gll austrlacl
hannc uttaccato per ben tre volte le po
sizlonl avanzate itallane nel settore dl
Tolmlno, dopo unaiolenta preparazione
dl artlgllerla, ma sono statl costantemente
respintl ed hanno sublto gravl perdlte.
li' probablle che gll austrlacl tentavanr
dl cacclare gll Itallanl dalle loro poslzl
onl sulla colllna dl Santa Lucia.
(Leggere in 4a paglna le ultimo e plu'
dettagllate notlzie sulla guerra, In Itallana)
QUICK NEWS
POLICEMAN ACQUITTED OF MURDER REINSTATED
The loinstrttenunt to the police force of Granville S. Jefferson,
fotmcr pilot of the police boat King, who shot and killed Jame3 Flta
nlmmons. a saloon porter, December 31, 1014, was ordered this after
noon by Judcci. Rogcis and Barrett, sitting In Common rieas Court
No. 2. Jcffeititn was acquitted of the murder on November 10 la3t.
LINDSEY QUITS PEACE CAMPAIGN FOR CHILDREN'S NEEDS
THE HAG-UE, Jan. 29. Judge Ben Lindscy, of the Tord p.uty,
has deserted the campaign for peace to study children's needs In tne
belligerent countilec He has goue to Berlin for that purpose aud
later will go to London. He expects to sail for the United States
from England.
FOUR GROUPS OF DERBY RECRUITS CALLED TO COLORS
LONDON, Jan. 20.-Tour groups of rcciuits under the Derby
campaign., consisting of bacucloti of the ages 27, 23, JJ0, 00, have
been called to the colors, it was announced today.
ITALY SENDS SPECIAL ENVOY TO LONDON
ROM 12, .Inn. 20. Ilnron Mayor ties Planches, former Italian Ambassador to
Washington, has been sent tu London by tho Government to tako up with
llrltlRh oi'Hclnlrt connoinio matters of Importance that aro expected to havo
marked Inlliienee in khIiiIhk success for the Kntcnto Allies In tho war.
While It Is staled that Ues i'lniu'lios' mission relates to food supplies, It Is
o.Npeeted that while ho Is at tho British cnpltal, ho will mako known Italy'a
attitude ni In a bloekado of Oermany.
The London conference will bo the first of a number that will mako arrange
ments aimed to jrtvp nil the Kntcnto atjftlcfvsit food supplies. From London
Baron I)es Planches will ko to Paris and there will confer with representatives
of both Franco nncl Husshu
JOFFRE GIVEN SUPREME COMMAND IN FRANCE
I'AIUK, Jan. 2H. -Ktipn?ino power for the direction of all military operations
of the French nim has been vested In General .lohoph .loffre, tho Commander-in-Chief,
nnd lipnecfoith the War Office will havo n'n ny whatever.
Tho fmcKttliiK announcement was made in the Chnmlier of Deputies by
Premier Hi land, who said:
"The Government will reserve supervision and political direction of tho
war. but the eotiiniamler-ln-ehief ulone will have control of all military
operations."
That there Iuih been friction between the Commander-in-Chief and tho
War Orflco was indicated by General Gulllcnl, Minister of War, who, in answer
ing a question by a deputy, said:
"Henceforth there will not bo tho sllKhtest conlllct between tho War
Office and tho chief comniamlinfr Konernl."
HOPE GIVEN UP FOR .'J00 ON LINER APPAM
LONDON, .Inn. ". The London newspapers today listed Jho African liner
Appatn, now eight days oveidue with her .100 passengers nnd crew, nmong; tho
ships that have gone out to sea and have never returned.
They abandoned hnpo for the Appnm and expressed fear for tho safety of
other stcmiieis pausing off the Moroccan coast on January Id to 18 in a terrific
Bale. Shipping circles heard that several vessels probably havo gone down.
PETROSINO MURDERERS RUN DOWN
TtOMK, .Ian. "9. Bomo newspapers state today that tho murderers of
Joseph Petroslno, tho American detective assassinated at Palermo op March 14,
1909, have been run down
nicy sny
havo been
A mc I lean detectives, 'VJho
MARTIAL LAW FOLLOWS SWISS ANTI-GERMAN RIOTS
' flENl-VA, .Inn. "9. Martial law has been declared at Lausanno as tho
result of nntl-Uermun riots.
A battalion of the li.ld landwehr is patrolling tho city.
President Cuppel, of tho Swiss republic, has gone to Lausanno to study
tho situation.
GERMANS MAKING 22.INCH GUN FOR USE AGAINST SLAVS
PETROGRAD, Jan. 29. Russian correspondents on tho western front have
sent word to Pctrograd that tho Germnns aro reported to bo manufacturing a
22-inch gun for uso in tho spring campaign. ,
Tho biggest gun reported to have been used by any of tho armies up to
dato is tho famous Krupp .42 centimeter whoso shells measure 16 inches. How
over, A. J. Balfour, first Lord of tho Admiralty in tho British Cabinet, recently
nnnounced that tho British Government Is without any proof that such a gun
as tho .42 centimeter exists.
VILNA, IN GERMAN GRIP, SWEPT BY FLAMES
PETROGRAD, Jan. 29. Tho residential section of tho Russian city of
Vilnn, now held by the Germans, is being swept by a great flro that has raged
for several days, according to information received hero today. The JowlBh
quarter of houbes of woodeji construction is reported to bo in nshes.
(Vllna, Is a city of about 200,000 and tho capital of tho Russian Government
of tho samo name.)
(53 ALLIED AEROS LOST IN 4 MONTHS, SAYS BERLIN
BERLIN, Jan. 29. Slnco October 1 16 German neroplancs have been lost
on tho west front. Sovon of theso wero lost In air engagements, eight shot
down from tho ground nnd ono Is missing. In tills samo period the French
and British lost 63 aeroplanes, 41 of widen wcro lost In air engagements, 11
wcro shot down from tho ground and 11 landed within German lines.
WAR ONLY BEGINNING, DECLARES LLOYD-GEORGE s
LONDON, Jan. 29. "I think that fur us tho war Is only beginning," said
David Lloyd-George, Minister of Munitions, in nn interview with the London
correspondent of the Milan Kecolo, "but I am absolutely conlldcnt of victory
becauso, although wo all havo mado mistakes In tho past, England and her
allies aro now taking counsel together, nnd will bo stronger becauso they are
united. By next spring wo shall have for the llrst tlmo more munitions than
tho enemy, and our superiority in men is unquestioned. Besides this, Ger
many's financial position Is growing worse dally."
U, S. ASKS AUSTRIA FOR FINAL PERSIA REPORTS
WASHINGTON, Jan. 29. The State Department has nddressed another
Inquiry to Austria asking If any of Its submarine commanders have knowledge
of tho destruction of tho British liner Persia. A statement that they had pone,
reported to havo been handed to Ambassador Pcnflold several days ago, never
has been received hero. Assertions by survivors that the ship was torpedoed
by a hostile submarlno presumably Austrian havo not been proved. Tha
Stato Department wants a definite statement from the Vienna Government, and
should a denial bo received, the case probably will be considered closed.
TEUTON AIRMEN SHELL SHIPS OFF DOVER
HULL, Eng., Jan. 29. Tho captain of tho Wilson liner Carlo reports that
his vessel was attacked in tho vicinity of Dover last'Sunday by a German aero
plane, which dropped a number of bombs over the Carlo and other Vessels in
the vicinity. None of tho craft was damaged.
CHESTER GETS 6,000,000 SHIPBUILDING CONTRACTS
CHESTER, Pa., Jan. 29. New contracts .aggregating 16,000,009 have been
received by the Chester Shipbuilding Company, Officials will not give- out
details, but It Is understood these contracts, together with those now In hand,
will bring the total contracts In hand up to $8,000,000.
Two shlgs aro on the ways for the Norwegian Shipbuilding Company, and
six additional ways are being built at the yards so work can be started on the
new contracts Immediately. Five of the now ships will be tankers and, one a
freighter. f
BRITAIN DEFERS TO JAPAN IN FAR EAST, SAYS BERLIN
BERLIN, Jan. 29. According tff the Frankfurter Zeltung. reports from th
Far Eastern press, stating tliat special agreements have been reached byeon
Japan and England conceding preponderance to Japan In the Far Hast, are
correct.
7 of Today's
inai ino miccessjui mint wajs won ny iwov
woriig"'6n "tho -case' for nearly" six years.
Evening Ledger
el
m
