iallN Whie Mtimxm Sfaif.
?# v v z^f r y ^ ???? ""I?MM, ? > ? .r iiMatM,
~ ^ _ ' ' ? l*llF tmai*. T?.? , >aM>r. MAUI
N?' " WASHINGTON, D. C, SATURDAY. JANUARY 29. 1916-EIOHTEEN PAGES " ~ = "
? JIV1% f J.
NEW BRIDGE SITE
PLANNOT URGED
Aqueduct Span "at or Near
Present Location" Feasible,
Mr. Garrison Says.
1 FOUNDATIONS AVAILABLE,
WAR DEPARTMENT FINDS
Secretary Informs Representative
Adamson Structure Can Be
Erected for $1,500,000.
Secretary Garrison has written a let
ter to Representative W. C. Adamson,
ehairman of the House committee on
Interstate and foreign commerce, in
which he explains, the attitude of the
War Department with respect to the
o-called Carlin bill appropriating
$1,500,000 for the construction of a
new bridge in place of the present
Aqueduct bridge across the Potomac
between Georgetown and Rosslyn. I
The conservative language in the J
Secretary's letter regarding the advisability
of placing the new bridge "at
or near the present location" is considered
significant in view of a proposition
recently submitted to the War
Department that the proposed newbridge
be located at the foot of either
G or H street in Washington, directlv
east of Rosslyn. and that the present
Aqueduct bridge be repaired sufficiently
to meet the special needs of the
people of Georgetown.
In suppoYt of that proposition it is
argued that a bridge from G or H
at eet would save at least half a mile
in the trip between Washington and
Rosslyn and would enable heavy traffic
to avoid the high grades of Georgetown
and at the same time conserve
the interests of Georgetown.
canr?iot.w fiorriflon's Letter.
In his letter to Representative Adamson
Secretary Garrison says:
"In further reply to your letter of the
12th instant, inclosing, with request for
the views of the department thereon, H.
R. 759, Sixty-fourth Congress. 1st Session,
'to provide for the removal of what
Is known as the Aqueduct bridge, across
the Potomac river, and for the building
of a new bridge in place thereof, I have
the honor to state as follows:
"My views concerning the critical condition
of the existing structure and the
necessity of a new bridge are presented
In a report of December 22, 1915, to the
Speaker of the House of Representatives
on the subject.
"The bill as drafted evidently proceeds
upon the theory or assumption
that the construction and maintenance
f this bridge at or near the point in
question has so crystallized the business
and necessities of the adjoining
communities as to make it desirable
and proper that the bridge built to replace
the same should be practically
in the same location?that is. at or
near the existing bridge. Acting in
pursuance of this assumption the en\gineer
department of the "War Department
has not made an independent
study to determine whether, if this
* were a case of novel impression, it
\ would recommend the erection of a
new bridge at or near the present location.
It has confined itself mainly toft
study of whether or not a bridge at
qr near the present location could be
built upon safe foundations and within
the sum of money named in the bill.
It has reached the conclusion that such
a bridge at or near the present bridge
could be built upon proper foundations
and within the sum named.
' .Amendments Are Advocated.
"It is thought that the bill will better
accomplish its purpose ifi amended as
indicated in red ink on the copy herewith.
to provide for the removal of the
existing bridge, acquiring rights and
><semen:s as well as necessary propoi-f
v Vw?rV? fnr thA hri 11 (TA nrnrtAr anrl ira
approaches, the making: of a contrtict
Tor the completion of tfce work and
the use of the structure for gas and
water mains, power, telegraph and telephone
wires.
"With respect to the payment of the
ost of the bridge. I would report that I
have consulted with the District Oommis[sioners.
and have obtained from them information
that the old bridge has served
the District of Columbia in a very distinct
way. and that they fee! it equitable
that the cost should be apportioned between
the federal government and the District
of Columbia, as other like joint expenditures
are apportioned. I thei*efore
heg leave to suggest to the committee
the equity and desirability of this treatment
of that subject.
With respect to a contribution from
the state of Virginia, it may very well
he that that state derives such direct, distinct
benefit that it might be included:
but this matter, not having been pressed
upon the department, and the department
being without any proper knowledge of
facts to reach a definite conclusion, it is
merely adverted to in passing, without
being made a subject of anv distinct
recommendation."
Britain Call* More Men.
LONDON, January 29.?Proclamations
are being posted throughout the country
calling to the colors eight more
k roups of men who attested for military
service under the Earl of Derby's
recruiting plan. The men, whose ages
range from twenty-seven to thlrtyrtve,
are summoned to Join on February
2f.
BAY IN CONGRESS.
| SMIttl
Met at noon.
Senator Kewlands Introduced
reaolution for a co-ordination
committee on national defense
measures.
Hoasei
Met at noon.
Representative Foss of Illinois
eulogised former President McKlnley
In observance of his birthday.
i nvcra T/W TW flAKr/IWTtftn I
i/iOXAiVX 111 UVi* UAIiDO.
Scuitci
Senator Newlande of Nevada |
offered a joint resolution provid- j
lug that the construction of the \
new central heating and power ]
plant for the government on 14th !
street shall not be begun until ;
the President has approved the 1
plans.
Hoiset
The District Commissioners con- j
ferred in executive session with !
the judiciary subcommittee1 of the !
House District committee with |
regard to many of the bills in the
Commissioners' program of legi
1 slat ion.
Representative Crosser's bill !
for a workmen's liability commission
was referred to the lHs
trict committee.
! ; ;
KEAW LOSS OF LIFE I
MM BREAKS
Otay Valley in California En- I
gulfed by Wall of Water
Thirty Feet High.
BELIEVED MANY BODIES j
WERE CARRIED TO SEA I
Hundreds of Families Threatened ]
With Food Famine?Disaster
Result of Continuous Rain.
SAX DIEGO. Cal., January 29
(by radio to l^s Angeles).?At 5
least fifty lives were lost Thurs- t
day in a wall of water thirty feet c
high which swept down the Otay t
valley, according to an estimate t
made by the coroner early today. I
When the lower dam of the 1
Southern California Mountain <
Water Company broke late ?
Thursday, it released a flood of t
eleven billion gallons of water
into the populous valley, which '
lies just south of here, devastating
an area of fifteen miles long ?
and two miles wide. The prop- 0
erty damage, it is believed, will r
reach $1,000,000. Another dam 1
continues today near the break- (
ing point, threatening additional ^
ruin to the valley. v
Scores Reported Missing. c
Scores of persons are reported miss- a
ing, and it is believed that a number c
of bodies were carried out to sea. a
Rescue parties are striving to reach a
the scene, approach to which is ex- s
tremely difficult, owing to swollen
streams and the fact that all of the
bridees between San Diesro and the
little valley have been carried away by
the flood waters of the last two weeks, s
All roads are virtually impassable. d
Hundreds of families cut off from fl
communication from the outside world
are believed to be threatened with a a
food famine. Suffering: among: the g
homeless is said to be intense, and t
plans are being: made here to send re- n
lief supplies into the flooded district c
as soon as possible. b
One report stated that twenty-flve
Japanese, including: men. women and S1
children, were among: the drowned. ^
Twenty-flve farmhouses are known to t
have been carried away by the waters, u
Dam Filled First Time in History, ?
The heavy rain during the last two *
days filled the lower Otay dam for the tl
first time in its history. Realizing the h
dam was weakening under the great ?
pressure of water, warning was sent
to people in the valley to flee for their si
lives. S]
It was unheeded by many, according p
to reports here, the residents in the c
valley preferring to remain and en- p
deavor to protect their property. n
Although the emptied reservoir was v
the principal source of the /San Diego s
city water supply, there wasiio danger ?
of a water famine here, it was said by "
officials, as there are other sources from ?
which the city can draw an ample ?
amount.
Telephone and telegraph communication
with the valley tias been cut off
since the gale and rainstorm swept
this city early Thursday morning. x
Big Toll of Death in the Wake d
of Storm on Pacific Coast; *
Property Damage Millions ?
AN FRANCISCO, January 29.?The ?
storm that has raged over the entire t
Pacific coast since early Thursday has ?
cost many lives and caused property 0
damage amounting to millions of dollars,
according to reports thus far received.
It is feared that further loss of j
lire win oe reported wnen lines or com- c
munication with isolated parts of the a
v
state are connected. p
Just outside the Golden Gate eight
lives were lost yesterday when the gar- t
bage carrier Aberdeen of Oakland Cal., t
was wrecked. Flood waters and high
winds did much damage In various parts 3
of the state. The oil districts, in par- i
ticular, have suffered severely, hundreds
of derricks being toppled over.
Northwestern States Hard Hit.
t
The storm struck the northwestern j
states heavily, Oregon, Washington, E
Idaho and Montana reporting cold and t
snow. c
Flood conditions prevailed in Arizona,
reports from Yuma being that the t
rivers above that point are swelling e
rapidly and that fears are entertain- t
ed of a repetition of the flood of last J
wees, ixeports rrom fnoenix said that c
the Gila river is rising: rapidly. I
Riverside, Cal., today faced a shortage
of drinking water as a result of f
washing out by the flood waters of the c
Santa Ana river of 600 feet of the j
water main carrying the city's sup- e
ply- . r
TWO VICTIMS OF FIEE.
q
|300,000 Loss in Oil Town in Ok* [
l&homa. I
OKLAHOMA CITY. Okla., January 29. t
?Two persons were killed in a fire n
which early today caused $300,000 loss *
in the business section of Drumright, \
an oil town in the Cushing field. Three
blocks were burned.
The bodies of the two men known to
have perished are in the morgue, unidentified.
Two persons are missing.
wavav "ir^TrnrT rv'fl vrvnev r
aVAVW ittViM-MMH* KM Wl fcliBVftX. r
a
Members of the House Wear Pink c
Carnations on Lapel of Coats. J
Every member of the House today 1
wore a pink carnation on the lapel of J
his coat in respect to the memory of a
President William McKinley ? this c
being McKinley day. The flowers were r
brought to the Capitol by John Hoi- g
lingsworth .one of the special employes 1
on the republican side. *
Several members of the House took f
occasion to refer to the martyred t
President in short speeches before the s
business of the day had concluded.
BIG BUSINESS MEN
FACE UAINQUIRI
Four Federal Divisions Con
cerned by Report of U. S.
Forest Service.
\ MONOPOLY IN WATER
POWER BUSINESS CHARGE!
Directors of Great Corporations
Banks and Trust Companies
Said to Be Involved.
Directors of some of the big
jest public service corporation
>f the country, especially thos
onnected with electric light, in
erstate electric railway and elec
ric power companies, as well a
>anks and trust companies, pr
acing investigation by the fed
?ral trade commission, the inter
state commerce commission am
lie federal reserve board, as wel
is the Department of Justice.
It is said that according to the re
>ort recently sent to the Senate by th
Secretary of Agriculture, which de
:lares there is a monopoly in wate
lowers in the United States, there I
he possibility of prosecution of direc
ors and corporations under the Sher
nan act for combinations in restrain
if trade and under the Clayton aci
rhich forbids interlocking directorates
'he report cnarges tnat many 01 in
ombinations which have been mad
mong the great companies and finan
ial institutions were effected in 191 &
fter the passage of the Clayton acl
pproved October 15, 1914, some provi
ions of which are retroactive.
To Act on Own Initiative.
Information as to the possibility o
uch investigations was obtained to
ay, following an inquiry at the of
Ices of the federal trade commission
s to the manner in which the repor
ent to the Senate, which was mad*
>y the forest service of the Depart
tient of Agriculture, will reach th<
ommission or be looked info by tha
tody.
As a result of this inquiry it is under
tood that -the federal trade commission
ill take cognizance on its own responsi
ility of the report as soon as it is pub
shed. If it is found that directors o
lectric light or power companies, or* th<
[g corporations as feuch, have laid them
slves amenable to the provisions of th<
layton act, they will be summoned b:
le federal trade commission, granted
earings and told to desist from practice
ontrary to the law. The federal trad?
ommission files its own complaints, an<
oqs not wait for complaints to be pre
Nited to it. Under the Clayton act it ii
pecifically charged with enforcing thi
rovisions of that act which do not affec
ommon carriers or banks and trust com
anies. The interstate commerce com
lission is charged with enforcing pro
isions of the act which affect the inter
tate street and interurban railways?
ommon carriers?and the federal reserv
oard is charged with enforcing provision
f the act which affect banks and trus
ompanies.
Report Is to Be Printed.
The Senate committee on printing, o
rhich Senator Duncan U. Fletcher o
Florida is chairman, met yesterday am
lecided to recommend to Congress tha
he report be published as a public doc
tment. Only brief extracts of it hav
o far been published. It will cost 121,
00 to print the report, which is volum
nous, and which carries many plate
.nd diagrams, but in view of the mil
ions of dollars involved, the conserva
ion legislation as to water powers be
ore Congress, *etc., it is believed b;
he Senate committee that the expens*
>f $21,000 is more than justifiable.
The forest service is being besiege*
?y hundreds of persons all over th
Tnited States?lawyers, bankers, pub
ic service corporation officials am
thers?who have heard of ,the repor
nd who want copies of it. *lto find ou
irhere they are at," as one man ex
ressed it today.
The report says that the total in
vestment in commercial central station
urnishing electric power, as represent
td by the latest figures, was ove
>2,000.000,000. Other interesting item
n the report are:
Evidence of Centralization.
"The concentration in control of elec
ric power is evidenced both by thncrease
in the# amount held by publi
lervice corporations as a class and ii
he amounts which are held by certaii
corporations in particular."
"If inquiry is made into the contro
>y certain corporations it is found tha
light-five public service corporations
hrough ownership of properties, ma
ority ownership of stock, lease or di
ect management. control t>s per cen
>f the total public service power in thi
Jnited States."
"The character of control, which i;
lonsidered with reference to the abov<
Igures, is definite ami complete. I
onsists either of actual ownership o
iroperties, of majority ownership o
tock. of lease or of direct manage
nent."
As to common directors, the repor
ay 8:
"The extent of control cannot b
uantitatively determined except ii
hose instances where a majority o
he directorate is common to two colorations.
Where the preceding dati
how accomplished control a market
endency toward association or com
nunity of interest shows potential con
rol, particularly between the princi
al holding companies, that cannot b
tewed without concern."
Provisions of Clayton Act.'
Section 7 of the Clayton act is as fol
ows:
"That no corporation engaged in com
nerce shall acquire, directly or indi
ectly, the whole or any part of th
tock or other share capital of anothe
orporation encased also in commerc
vhere the effect of such acquisitioi
nay be to substantially lessen compe
ition between the corporation whos
itock is so acquired and the corpora
ion making the acquisition, or to re
itrain such commerce in any sectio
>r community, or tend to create
nonopoly of any line of commerce."
Lawyers today said that this para
rraph of the act forbids corporation
o acquire stock under the circum
itances mentioned from the date th
tct was approved, October 15, 1914. Th
orestry service report says some o
hese acquisitions have been mad
since then.
Lawyers for water power coropanie
*
1 /;
V
( we
swh
) A NO1
Of
\ pou
u * <*** ^ ^'-LuMbKH
j
f .
. have raised the question of late years
whether the transmission of power
' made by water companies from one
t state to another is "comtaierce," but
B other lawyers say that inasmuch as the
. power is bought and sold such transe
mission or delivery constitutes "comt
merce."
The Law as to Banks.
i Bank directors are forbidden by the
- Clayton act "from and after two years
~ from the date of the approval of this
B act" to serve as directors of other
- banks having deposits, capital, surplus '
e and undivided profits of more than $o,J
000,000. So that such bank directors,
: of whom there are hundreds mentionJ
ed in the report by name, must rear?
range their affairs by next October. If
1 any investigation were to be made by
the federal reserve board on the forest
3 service report as to bankers, it would
J probably, it is said, be directed to as*
certaining to what extent banks are
~ holding companies for electric light.
" railway, water power companies, etc.,
" and the interstate commerce commis"
slon, similarly, it is said, would direct <
- its attention, if it makes an investiga- <
e tion, to recently formed combinations
s among railway companies.
! U. S. AWAITS REPLIES
! ON SUBMARINE NOTE,
e
I Proposal Sent to All Belligerent
- Countries Strictly in Interest of
Humanity, It Is Said. .
V
e
j Administration officials are awaiting (
e some indication of how the proposal of
~ the United States to all the belligerent '
t countries regarding submarine warfare ?
t has been received in the capitals of the
" warring countries.
In formally announcing that identical ,
" notes had been sent to all the belligerent
8 countries. Secretary Lansing said that the ]
~ various countries had been asked whether
r they were willing to subscribe to a 1
8 declaration of principles governing attacks
on merchant ships and forbidding the J
arming of such vessels. I
In Interest of Humanity.
e Government officials said today that
c favorable responses would clinch the
1 principles of submarine warfare for c
1 which the United States lias long con- c
j tended. It was explained that tins notes ?
^ were sent purely in the interest of liu- 8
( manity and in an effort to establish in *
international law a policy disposing of 8
. many problems arising from submarine ^
t warfare. 2
e In brief, the United States proposes T
B that non-combatants may expect proe
tection under the rules of international *
t law and the principles of humanity
f when traveling on merchant ships; that a
f warning must be given before a mer- C
- chantman is attacked; that belligerent r
owned merchant ships must obey warn- d
t ings to stop; that merchantmen shall I
not be fired on except in case of ree
sistance or flight; that no# merchantn
man shall be sunk except where it is
f impossible to supply a prize craw or
- until passengers and crew are placed <
el in safety, and that merchantmen shall j
d not be permitted to mount arms.
HATTERS' FUND IS LARGE. J
e
Total Amount Contributed by Un- ,
ions May Reach $450,000. 1
DAXBURY, Conn., January 29. ? Na- ]
tional officers of the United Hatters of 1
" Nortli America estimate that the con- 1
- tributions made Thursday for the re
? lief of the defendants in the Danbury <
r Hatters' case would be at least $350,- J
? 000 and might reach $450,000, according j
n to word received here from the hate
ters' headquarters in New York. It
- was stated that while definite figures
- could not yet be given, reports ren
ceived from the largest cities in the c
a country indicated that the response to t
the appeal of the American Federation (
- of l^abor for funds to meet the $252,000 T
s damages and costs awarded D. E. *
- Loewe & Co., plaintiffs in the case, <3
e would be sufficient to protect the de- s
e fendants against losing a dollar of ^
f theiy personal property or savings. t
e . About $400,000 would be needed, it \
way stated, and this amount, it seemed <1
8 almost certain, had been given. a
2> '
What Germany Is Doing for Her Crippled Soldiers.
Already those maimed by shot and shell are being
helped to help themselves; and, with the aid of mechanical
devices, many have returned to their former trades.
More than that, the government has built and is maintaining
houses and apartments for. them. ' .Read this
article tomorrow in The Sunday Star.
NO TIME LIT SET
that twenty-eight ships flying the AmerFflR
liFRMAN RFPIY
I Ull ULIVIVInil IlLI LI American ?h'P8 are now on the way to
London. During the entire fiscal year
\ ended June, 1915, only ten American ships
entered the port of London.
Secretary Lansing Denies ===========================
Published Reports as to j
Status of Lusitania Case. tomorrow
RICHARD HARDING DAVIS
Id/S how FRANCE IS LOOKSecretary
Lansing today denied 'a d7prn 1"ett tton
published reports that the Lnited her soldiers.
states had given Germany until Frederick palmer say, that
l-'ebruarv 5 to make a definite an- we must mobilize our
, .. .. . , , . .. national resources to
swer on whether it intends to dis- secure a successful deivow
the sinking of the Lusi- fense.
tania. FRA^K G. CARPENTER describes
At the State Department it was 717 of "ai'as77b gatb~
declared that the Lusitania nego- ?
. . . , CHARLES M. PEPPER write, of
tiations remain just where they the vanishing dream of a
>tood earlv in the week, when restored Grecian em'
,, cr , r- P'RE
count von Bernstorff, the Ger,
, . ., 1 , PARIS DESIGNERS gire hint, of
man ambassador, transmitted to ! garment, for spring wear
Berlin a new draft of the pro- | sterling heilig ,ay, there are
oosed agreement which embodied no -society butterfly"
til the points for which the I^rVo'spital AilBRWAX
L'nited States contends. ^
DR. W. M. AUGHINBAUGH tell.
Disavowal Is Provided. the thrilling stories of MEN
There could be no new move, officials Oy> THEIR
leclared. until the German foreign *' om he ,ias yun
fflce had passed upon it. Tl?? new icross in a parts of the xcorld.
Iraft was made bv Count von Bern- "THE RAMBLER" discourses on j
itorff immediately after a conference "THE MUD PIKE."
vith Secretary Lansing and is underTH*
ASNUAL DISTRIBUTION I
tood to provide that liermany anall I ofr PLANTS FROil THE
Itsavow the destruction of the ship and , BOTANIC GARDEN ia now
icknowledge as a matter of law the being made
Ights of the neutrals who were lost.
)n this point the State Department is A well known PLANT EXPLORER
inderstood to be very firm. returns from Tibet owd China
Secretary I.a*ising flatly denied that WITH VALUABLE SPECInv
-date had been set as the limit for HENS.
Jermany's reply. Other State Departnent
officials declared they had no in- Owe who did so telle "WHY I
ication of when they would hear from SNEAKED OUT OF ENG
3erIln- LAND."
Prompt Settlement Sought. m a N u f a C r u R e of paper
Although all officials are declining to BOXES ia a large and growing
iiscuss the Lusitanla negotiations, the induatrg in Waahington.
mpression prevails among those who
v \ "tup nror Dfurvn **><? .. I
ire in position to know of the progress I ana; a i
>f the exchanges that Germany has | strong story, by GEORGE j
aeen informed that the United States I WESTON. ^
vants the controversy settled without | -DOCTOR, WHAT SHOrn n
innecessary delay. The continued fail- | THESE PEOPLE EATlv
Jre ?o close up the negotiations might WIXTBRf?a two-pooe snread
oe construed, it was said, as surround- ; 0/ intere,ting photo 9 P
ng the situation with a degree of se-lousness
which, however, could not l>e REORGANIZATION OF UNCLE
lescribed as critical. SAM'S FLEET OF DESTROY
Count von Bernstorff in his latest ERS
communication to Berlin is believed to
lave informed his government that the SYSTEM A T I r ntr a a
State Department was pressing for a BEAUTIFICA~
jrompt settlement. TION OF LINCOLN HIGHWAY
through thirteen states is a
President's Return to Be Awaited. problem.
PITTSBURGH.^ January 29?Advisers "THE THUMB TEST FOR |
,f President Wilson, wnne oenying KIRBY," a Shorty McCabe
hat a time limit had been set for alorv b]/ SEWELI. FORD
Jermany's reply, indicated that the
'resident and Secretary l.ansing were HERBERT KAUFMAN, as usual,
letermined that the Lusltania case be ha3 a /?" P"ffe ?1 vital articles.
ettled as expeditiously as possible. It . y ?,,
cas understood that no further definite In the
iteps on the part of the United States a
vould be taken until after the Presi- Q ? J . C * ? _
lent ' returns to Washington, FebrU- dUnuiy O t A T
trv 4. _. 1 i
f
SAYS GREAT ARMY
IS NOT HIS IMC1
President Wilson, at Pitts
burgh, Explains Program of
Preparedness.
FIRST OF HIS SPEECHES
ON NATIONAL DEFENSI
Nation's Executive Greeted by Vai
Throng?Band Plays Wedding
March for Mrs. Wilson.
PITTSBURGH, Pa.. Januar
29.?President Wilson today d<
livered the first of his speechc
on national preparedness on hi
trip through the middle wes
Half an hour before the Presider
was due to speak. Memorial Ha
was packed with 4,000 persons, a
seats were taken on the floe
above, reserved for the overfloi
meeting, and a crowd of sever;
thousand stood outside.
The arrival of the President was hei
aided by a fanfare of trumpets ar
"The Star Spangled Banner." Mr
Wilson entered first and was warm!
(innlondaH WhAn tha Prpsidpnt ??1
rived the crowd broke into loud cheei
ing.
As Mrs. Wilson stepped out on tt
platform the band played a weddin
marcfc. She smiled broadly.
President Is Applauded.
President Wilson rose to speak ami
applause. He declared he was coi
scious of being a truant from Was!
ington, but he felt it his duty to r<
port to the people on the affairs of tl
nation. He added he got more inspir?
tion outside of Washington than insic
it.
"I believe in peace. 1 love peace,
would, not be a true American if I di
not love peace, but I know that pea<
costs something. That the only way yc
can maintain peace is to enjoy the respe<
of everybody with whom you deal.
"There are other counselors who;
source of counsel is passion. It is n<
wise nor possible to guide national polic
under the influence of passion. I woul
be ashame of the passion of fear.
"America dees not desire anything oth<
than freedom, justice and right conduct
Advises Against "Professionals."
The President also advised against tal
ing the advice of professional sailors an
soldiers on some questions.
"It is time we attempted, at any rati
to apply the standard of our own lit
to national defense. What do we war
to defend? Need I answer? We war
to defend the equal right of the natio
as against all other nations and w
wish to maintain the peace of the west
em hemisphere.
"These are our great needs of dc
fense.
"Did you ever stop to reflect jus
what it is that America stands for
She stands for the sovereignty of th
self-governing peoples of the worli
Our aim, our assistance, our encour
agement has thrilled two continents 1
this^ western hemisphere.
"Tins is wnai we stanct ior. 11 seem
to me that America is in love with el
flciency. Material efficiency, of whic
we hear so much, only underlies, how
ever, what I may call spiritual efF
ciency.
Great Army Not Contemplated.
"I for my part have a great enthu
siasm for rendering America spiritual
ly efficient. The plans for our militar
efficiency do not provide for a grea
army. We want only an army neces
sary for the uses of peace, but we wan
back of that army a trained body c
men. These men should be civilian:
men who know the arts of peace com
before the arts of war.
"A plain gentleman in black, some
times a very, very plain gentlemanoften
presides over the army.
"Men should dread war and know tha
everything on which the nation de
pends comes from peace.
"The details of the army plans d
not make any difference. Perhaps otli
ers have bett,er plans: but I do wan
an adequate and efficient force of a
least 500.000 men trained to the art
of war, who will be ready to protec
the nation.
"This nation will not be stalked b;
ghosts and fancies.
"1 am proposing something raon
than temporary. It is my coneeptioi
that as.the government has encourag
ed agricultural training, it should alsi
encourage industrial training, and it i
perfectly feasible along with indus
trial training to instruct our younj
men in the mechanism and handling o
a rifle and guns and in the rudimen
tary arts of warfare?instruct then
and at the same time qtiicken and en
noble the performance of the tasks o
pence.
"But we can't take the time now t<
develop and encourage these schools
we must train and equip at once i
very considerable body of men.
Test of Preparedness.
"The test of preparedness does not li<
in Congress. It is going to be in th<
response of tne young men or tn<
country to the call to volunteer and o:
the employers of those men to plac<
no obstacle to their answering the call
I for one believe both the young met
and the employers will do their duty
"But there are many selfish influences
at work in this country. When il
comes, however, to the test I believ*
America can produce as much substantial
patriotism as any other land undei
the sun."
The President's words were marked
frequently- by apiflause. He spoke rapidly
but clearly.
"1 am not afraid of debate. f am
not afraid that out of it we will not
get results. I am talking myself, and
certainly tne otner renow snouia nave
I his chance. *
"I am sorry this is a campaign sear
I hope this question will not be a parI
tisan question. No man should attempt
to make political capital out of it. 1
i will be ashamed of any friends of mine
who take a different view. Republicans
I and demooj^ts have many differences
but there is no reason why they should
differ on the issue. Both parties arc
patriotic."
Difficulties Facing America.
The President spoke of the effects oi
the war to show the difficulties facing
j America.
"Where nations are engaged in war,
' (Continued on Fifth Page.)
t
FRENCH ARE DRIVEN
I FROM 2,700 YARDS
- OFTRENCHESOYFOE
Germans Continue Their Desperate
Assaults in West,
and Claim Gains.
E
FRISE IS CAPTURED,
lt ACCORDING TO BERLIN
Paris Admits Some Success for Teutons
South of the
v
Somme.
is ADVANCE NEAB NEUVILLE
t.
lt Kaiser's Men Said to Have Seized
|| Long- Stretch of Allied Positions.
|] Drive on Calais Believed to
|r Be Under Way.
A'
BERLIN", January 29. via London.
3:10 p.m.?The capture of
r- i.000 yards of French positions
ld south of the Somme bv German
8.
iv troops was announced today by
r" army headquarters. Prisoners to
the number of 927 and thirteen
>e machine guns were taken.
8 The thousand yards of positions
taken were south of the village of
Frise. which also was captured by
i- the Germans.
Northeast of Xeuville the Gerle
mans stormed trenches along a
1- front of about 1,700 yards, caple
turing twenty-seven prisoners and
1 nine machine guns.
:d
r* Enemy Gaihs at Frise Admitted,
-t PARIS, January 29, via London, 5:4t
}e p.m.?An attack by the Germans on the
French front, south of the Somme, >? :y
terday, along: a width of several kilometers,
failed completely on the south?r
em end of the line, succeeding only on
." the bank of the Somme against the village
of Frise, it was announced today
by the war office.
id "Dri^V Seems to Be On.
Operations of the Germans in the
Neuville region and in the Artois have
j* been of intense character in the past
it few days, the atta?ks being hurled at
n the allies over a wide stretch of terri?
tory, one after the other.
The battle has been waged day and
?- night, the artillery engagements being
particularly severe all along the whole
it western front. While doubts were,
? early in the week, expressed that the
,e Germans would continue their effort
a. in the face of appalling losses suffer*
ed in their first offensive movement,
n the actions of today would indicate
that the present movements are but a
s part of a determined drive on Calais, a
goal coveted since the Teutons were
h turned back from Paris. Both London
r- and Paris claim that the allies are In
i- better position to withstand heavy
German assaults than at any tim*since
the war started, and are not
fearful that the enemy will achieve
( his goal.
; Allied Forces Occupy
1 Fort Held by Greeks on
< Karaburun Peninsula
?f
s, LONDON*. January 29.?A dispatch to
e the Reuter's Telegram Company from
Saloniki says that detachments of mi
rines from British. French, Russian
arid Italian warships in the harbor
landed at daybreak Friday on the Karaburun
peninsula under the guns of
0 their ships and occupied the Greek
~ fort there. The garrison of the fort
t offered no resistance, but the commands
er of the troops entered a protest at
1 being compelled to evacuate.
y At the same time as the naval landing
French infantry surrounded the
g
rj fort and neighboring habitations.
- Buildings were searcnea ana in? iu0
habitants ordered removed,
s
1 Reasons for the Action.
r This action by the entente allies, ac1
cording to the dispatch, was dictated
- by strategic reasons, and the undesirf
ability of having the fortress in other
3 hands than their own.
; Another reason for the landing was
i that it was believed tha\ German submarines
obtained supplies in the -vicin.
ity of this coast.
Rains Hinder Austrians.
e
a Heavy rains during the past few
e days have made northern Albania alj,
most impracticable for the Austrian
g troops, who have been able to advance
only very slowly. The Idea Nazionale's
^ Durazzo correspondent says Austria and
Germany are carefully planning for a
triumphal re-entry of Prince William
I of Weid, who abdicated the throne of
, Albania in 1914, and who now is at
; Prizrend with a number of Albanian
chiefs.
The Rome GiornaLa d'ltalia's Athens
I correspondent says the Italians have
decided to abandon Durazzo, Albania,
owing to the fact that its defense prei
sents most serious difficulties.
| Serbian Situation.
1 In reference to the situation of the
Serbian army the French official state
ment says:
| "The retreat of the Serbian contin,
gents which have remained in Albania
, is continuing in good order and with.
out any notable incident. This retreat ia
I made much easier on account of the
i milder temperature and by the bridges
thrown across the principal streams by
the British forces. Victualing depots
have been established aions me roaas
t of the retreat.
The cannons, caissons and aminiinl;
tion left by the Serbian army at San
Giovanni di Medua have been taken
on board French trawlers and carried
J to Brindisi. The Serbian troops continue
to be embarked methodically.
V
v
