..my
"I- "
THE ART OF BEING
A "GREAT LOVER"
Leo Ditrichstein writes of the ideal lover in
real life. Frank Ward O'Malley writes of
Mr. Ditrichstein. the "stage lover."
IN NEXT SUNDAY'S SUN
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Cloudy to-day; snow to-morrow; north
east winds.;,,
Highest temperature yesterday, 65; lowest, 34.
Pctallid weather, mall .mil marine rcportiVn pago IX
tin.
TJ
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 151.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, JANUARY 29, 1916. Copyright, 1016, b the Sun Printing and Pubthhtng A,ocMo.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
KING OF GREECE
MYFLEE.SAYS
ROME REPORT
Crisis in At lions Predicted
mid With It Veni.elos's
Hetum as Leader.
CONST A XTIXK LINKED
WITH TEUTON PLOTS
Allies Said to Have Discov
ered T Boat Base Near
His Villa.
CALL MONTENEGRIN
1MUNCES THA1T0RS
Xicliolas's Flight May Not
Rave. Reen Voluntary
Albanians Suspected.
(.ffin ahle Otapatth to Tin Sin.
IMmk. Jan. 2!!. "I would not be Mir.
Dr.sed." said u neutral diplomatist
nere to the correspondent of Tin: Sun
tlav. "If before long King Constim-
ii' of lire we passes thioiiKh Home en
i. jte for France, then- to Join the Klnc
nt Montenegro In exile.
Startling as thin statement may seem 1
on the face of It. It Indicates the gcti
rji tendency of opinion In political cir
cles here. Sensational developments are
expected whortlj In the Hellenic Klng
uom. Kins Constantino's decision to pro-
flaim martial law was opisiscsl by sev- ,
eral Ministers, who have threatened to tlnuance of friendly relations,
resign Their object, reports from In highest State Department nuar
Athens say. Is ,0 provoke a crisis, which , ? S'rched'lf d'e.fnUe T
mould Inevitably lead to the return to c!(loll as , lu t.ouryc t wll follow If
power of cx.Ptcmler Venlzelos. The the reply from llerlln Is a refusal to
Ministers1 opposition to martial law 1 comply. Ueyond this responsible officials
Mid to be prompted by tholr convcr- ! w'' of affirmative com-
1 men.
t.un to the Allies cause. ,t was aJmtted. however, that the
The postponement of the new s.s- j United States has no Intention of baek-
non of I'.iNlumenl and the abandon-,
nicnt of the speech from the throne are
.1 rlbuted to rompllcitlunt. In the situ
d ion. which is still further aggravated
King Constantllie's interviews an
utonisllc to tho Allies.
Accuse Ivlnu of I'rii-Gf riiitinlsiii.
Meanwhile the Allies, who are virtu
.y regulating all Greek shipping and
.ive thus stoiped Austro-German sub
marine warfare In the Mediterranean,
have oliialned convincing evidence to
ti.e effect that the Greek King has fa
vored in every possible way the ojiera
o:i of Austtlan and German subma
' nes uh'ch operated from Corfu prior
'he French occupation of that Island
. .iow have liases on other Greek U1
anda. Submarine bases are also said to ex-
'.ear King Constantino's villa near
A! ns where gasolene It, sequestered.
I of th's is part of the evidence in
Un? Allies' hands showing the Hellenic
ners complicity with the Central
Tone s Undoubtcdlv this evidence will
i divulged at the opportune moment,
i 1' is bound to hasten the climax In
t liieek situation looked for In the
i" nuilMti futuie.
T 1. m utral diplomatist who to-day
foie na, lowed an Invnltintiii'v irln lie
K.iu- i'011-tdiitini to France milled that
.i'l reason to believe that the exile
01 t. Montenegrin King and his famllv
1 t lolunt.i j, but had been decided
ui'i u t.u Allies.
II'- I'lte the fact that the Austro-Mon-temgr
1 iiegotlatloiis for a separate
' ' ie unikeii off by Montenegro at
r iwrtli hour, Kln' Nicholas and
' - 'is tho eldest, I'lince IM11II0, and
Rest, I'rlncn I'eter, ate suspected
u-'i an proclivities, and they nere
PM t ,il. 5 banished from .Montenegro,
mi y Prince Mlrko was left to
"ir itic dsnaMj
iinUeneif reoplf's I 11 ill 1 1 .v.
Te (iinmander In chief of the .lon
tneKr.n army, (icn. .M.irtlnmllch, has
alo.'.i.ii etraoiillniiry jirecautlons to
P'neni (h iraknig out of information
'itanl rig the strength of the reenforce.
nv.it -n,t reiently, nn, al)ut the plans
ft de'eir'e
T 1 Mohtcjiecrlus, commanded by
C"i Marti owlteh and other ofllcers
tian, i in Italy, are determined to op-l-f
' le Austrian ailMince from ih
Tli
advance Is In Itself dlf
1 r on
1 "lint of the hostility of tho
where the A list I la ns u re already
T'u Xuntrians committed a great
i hanging iinfrlrtMlly .Monte.
"' ng thus to Intimidate the
'I'ne latter ate now Inflamed
i tor revenge.
' diineil was held to-night
-h the situation In Albania,
i i opc.,iion.s in that country,
i the .Ille are concerned, are
a'eii
rn
r c
c ' .
. "J lo the defence of Avlona,
ia i.e. i'oneit(il Into a for
i lem her camp hlrnilar to
SL'IiKKXDER COMPLETE.
Moiii,.aegrlii Inlilnel sold lolluxr
until laiiltiiluflon,
.. 1 ' i.i Amsterdam, Jan. 8.
will be, at least as long its
i.t
si- Virtually ti.trt of the Dual
' ' ' Her people am nubjects of
' ir Kr.iinls Joseph. They will not,
" b' ii II.'si upon to fight against
foi met allies
- the fundamental basis of the
' M 'idem grin peace terms, signed
' "iijn on January IT, and made
' l"'li by tho Ovcmeas Newo
' peace agreement, asi published,
a Hee band for Ihn Austrn-Hun-ariuiea
In military operations, in
'"Ugh Montenegro. The Montcne-
I oiitiiKed on 7 Mrd I'tipe.
, li.illhlfnl heaxma, AsbeUlle, Toon and
ii-iul.Tsmitllle, . I', Ciiuipiirnit wllli elie
- 'iiniHiirii rrsnris ,11 me nii norld,
J.'iV eiii!iri holnln lleiiiiifiil hy
V ' niivus UAiiAVAV. tiifurmatlun .V.
1. OltKc Sd rifth Ave, Aio.
Yield in Lusitania Case
or Break, Berlin Is Told
Bernstorff Sends Word United States Demands Un
equivocal Disavowal of Attack in Next Note Reply
Promised on the President's Return.
WARNING SEEN IN SPEECH OF WILSON HERE
Washington-, Jan. ;s. Count von
Hernstorff, the German Amb.isc.iJor, hn
been Riven to understand that failure on
the part of the German Government to
yield to the demands of the United
States for a disavowal of the Lusitania
attack may lead to a rupturo In diplo
matic relation between the Drilled
States and Germany.
The Ambassador, It was said to-night
In well Informed quartern, has no advised
his Government. A definite answer from
Germany Ih expected to reach Washing
ton on or before next Friday, the day on
which l'resldcnt Wilson returns from his
national defence campaign In the middle
West.
The warning to the German diplomat
Is understood to have been conveyed to
him by Secretary Lansing last Tuesday,
when the two conferred In regard to the
latest demurrer on the part of llerlln to
the demands of the United States.
Annoyed by Ielnj.
On that occasion. It Is reported, Secre
tary Lansing did not ottempt to conceal
the disappointment of the American Gov
ernment over the repeated failures on
the part of the German Government :
give satisfaction ami over the intntunt
effort on the part of the llerlln Foreign
Office to avoid an acknowledgment tliat
the attack on the Lusitania was Uleg.il
In the eves of International law.
Should the reply bo unfavorable or
evnslvo thero Is reason to believe that
Secretary Lansing will bring an end to
the contldeutlal conversations" with the
Ambassador, by means of which he was
led to believe a settlement could be more
uulekly arrived at, and In a formal note
to llerlty call for an Immediate and
final response. As In the cose of the
1 controversy with Austria over the sink
ing of the Ancona It Is assumed mat
such a demand will bo based on the
eoncern 0f the United States for a con
ing uown on us uemanu lor a seuiemem
mil that little else remained in the
event of a refusal on the part of Ger
many but a more or less definite threat
to break off diplomatic relations.
The situation Is believed generally In
official and diplomatic circles to have
been In the mind of President Wilson
when in the course of his uddress in
New York last night, before tho Hall
way lluslness Association, he gave
warning that It was Impossible for him
to predict what tho International rela
tions of the United States would be In
the near future.
It Is nun hellrved that tills warning
nan Intended as mil eh for the lienrtlt of
the (ierman (internment us It was for the
ears of the audience to which the Presi
dent was uilclressltig his appeal for sup
port of the Ailinlnlttrsllon's national de
fence programme. Although he Ignored
other pontons of his prepared usech
and spoko for the most part extem
poraneously It Is regarded as signifi
cant that he followed closely the text of
his manuscript when ho canio to the
passage which with the rest of the pre
pared speech was carefully written by
the President ticveral days ago.
Mint III Wilson Speech.
"What I nm trying to Impress upon
you now." he told his audience, "is that
the circumstances of the world to-day
are not what they were yesterday or
DU PONT PLAINT BURNS;
SIX MEN ARE INJURED
Mys.lt'1-ioiiN Explosions in Store
Houses nt Carney's Point
$100,000 Dniiiiisre.
Wtl.ltlNOTiiS, Del.. Jan. 2. Myste
rious explosions in powder houses of the
du Pont Company at Camej's Point,
.V. .!., across the Delaware lUver from
here. Injured six men to-night and
Marled a lire which destroyed four big
buildings housing thousands of pounds
of rifle powder.
The lire was got under control at mid
i,.hi Tho damage Is estimated
at
$100,000,
Three of the six men who weie burned
,ro In a serious condition and little hope
H held out for them. 'Hie men. who
nlaced atioard a special boat and
hurried to the Delaware Hospi at. are:
Fred Fritz. Heading, Pa.! Lawrence
unit. !i0fi Pine Hirnei. '""-".
and William Wallace, Hazleton. 1'a , all
badly burned ..bout the l",Iy: Harry
Miller .-' 'OUin "
alnhla' J. Williams, nuiirces uimiii" n,
and Da'vld Hall. 0T Dickinson street,
Philadelphia, sugnuj ouna'i ""'
face ami body ,
The Urn started at B o clock In a de-
tention house filled with powder. Like
,, bolt of lightning It flared up and nwept
' ..,.. v., flulr seven men
on to liiiuii. - , ..
were III Plant No. I. a re of other
having J"1' '" Ulfl At"H " ,ho P'ant.
Tliree of tne nurnri. .....
urw-onsoloUH oy i "" "",'
hurried from other buildings and
nlunged Into the pungent fumes of
burned powder in the elestroyed house.
The either Hire who were burned were
itble Ui drag tbemsctvc to the fresh air.
Charles It. Landls. un olllclal of the
du Pont Powder Company, issued the
following statement i
"There are a number of things that
could havo caused the explosion or
flareup, but I cannot say at this time
that It was the result of IncendlarlHrri,"
ONLY Ml HOt'RH TO HAVANA,
Atlantic Ceml 1,1ns, "Florida ml Wei In.
dl.ii l.lmltr.1." tl5 A. M. All Florida r
Moris reachea. 4 Tralni Pally, 1101 H'way.
Ail),
what they were In any of our yester
days, and that It la not certain what
they will bo to-morrow.
"1 cannot tell you what the Interna
tional relations of this country will bo
to-morrow and I use the word literally.
1 would not daro keep silent and let the
country suppose that to-morrow was,
rertult : n tin !,r!ht n tn.dnv
"America will never be the aggressor. '
America will always seek to tli Inst ,
point at which her honor is lnolvel to j
avoid the things which disturb the peace
of the world. Hut America doe.s not
control tho circumstances of the world
and wo must bo sure that wo are faith
ful servants of those things which wo
love and are ready to defend them
against every contingency that may af
fect or Impair them."
In German circles confidence Is still
expressed that the Issue will be settled
without ny break In tho amicable re
lations of the two countries. Count
von HernstorfT, who has been optimistic
from the outset, is said to be as confi
dent as ever and believes that his next
Instructions from llerlln will be such us
to permit him to meet the views of
Secretary Lansing. He has so expressed
himself to Mr. Lansing, it Is said, nnd
In Tuesday's conference he gave as
surances to the Secretory that he would
ndvlso his Government against further
delay
Throughout the controversy Germany '
has balked on the cpiestlon of outright
disavowal. In varied form throughout 1
recent progress of the "conversations"
she has indicated a willingness to go
part of the wiy, but alwas, It Is said, I
Insisting that there should be an ex-1
psesjlon Insetted to Indicate that the at-'
tack on the Lusitania was n Justifiable
reprisal against Great Hrltnin.
Her latest proposal rejected by Mr.
Lansing In his conference with Ambas
sador von llernstorff offered to make. In his address to Congress on peiem
reparation for the American lives that 1 ber 7 the President, discussing was of
were lost, but to make It, not as a rec- obtaining rcenue for ilefeiue, recom
ognltlon of liability, but rather as an 1 mended an Increase I. the surtaxes of
act of grace. There has been 11 strong , the Income tax law, a lowering of the
suoldrlnn In official rlrrlrs of late Hint ' exemptions, reeiiactmcnt of the war rev-
(Jermanj In merely playing for time, con-
Hit mt that l'rrslilrnt VtMlMin minil.l nut
forre 11 break,
HnltN Aiifoiiit 4'Hsr.
In the meantime negotiations with Aus
tria for 0 settlement of the Ancona con
troversy are also lagging. For this fact
two reasons are responsible:
First, that for some cause unknown
to the State Department, Ambassador
Peutlelil at Vienna has nnt forwarded
the communication he was reported to
hae received a week ago from the Aus
trian l"or ign Dtlice denying responsi
bility for the a'tack on the Persia, in
wh.ch United States Consul Holurt N.
Mc.Neely lost Ills life.
Second, because In a measure the fur
ther negotiations with Austria depend on
the outcome of the present deadlock
with Germany over the Lusitania.
The State Department let It be known
to-day that If tho report from Ambas
sador Penfleld Is not received in the
next day or two the Amha-sador will
be asked to Inquire, again of 'he Aus
trian Government whether on of its
submarines attacked the Persia
In her second note to the United States
concerning the Ancona case Austria
offered to make the reparation demanded,
but ns Germany lues sought to do In the
Lusitania case, she offered this with tho
expi es.s reservation that she did not con
sider herself legally liable, but desired
to retain the friendship of the United
States.
As the United States demanded that !
she should denounce the nttuek .is "It.
legal anil Indefensible," It Is expected
she will be told that the form In which
the Indemnity Is offered Is objectionable. '
Therefore, as the cases are so nearly
parallel In this respect, it is indicated
that tho Ancona negotiations may be
held up pending the outcome of the
Lusitania dispute.
GEO. W, DECKER DIES
AS HE CLOSES DEBATE
Itepiililii'iiii Clininiiiiii mill
Letxler in Hudson County
n Victim of Apoplexy.
George W Decker, chairman of one
eif the two Hudson county Itepubllcau
e-onimlttics and a member of the State
committee, was stricken with apoplexy
causisl by his exci lions In a public
debate' III Jerse'y City at U' 30 o'clock
this morning and died five minutes after
ward. Mr Decker was debating wllli a po
litical eiptonent, William P. Vertlon,
boforo ihn llergen Social ( "lull In Fair
mont Hall, Jersey City. The hall was
crowded, and the elcbale had just closed
when suddenly ho iceied, clutched at
bis throat and sank lo bis knees on the
platform, llefore a phjslclan could reach
the platform he whs elead, lewH than
live minutes after lie hud lieen stricken.
Mr. Decker was considered the He
publican leader eif the northern part
of New Jersey. He was t;' jears old
anil lived at IS Clark avenue, Jersey
City. He leaves a wife, a daughter and
a sou
LINER THWARTS AVIATORS.
eorlo y.lu'iiu mill At olds Gi-rinim
llonilia In .North Sen.
Sptcial Cahlr fiemmfrA (ui'im Hi v.
Iinikin, Jan. UK, The Wilson liner
Carlo, arilved al Hull, reports that she
was attacked by a German aeioplane In
the North Sea on January !!0, The aero,
piano dropped six IhiiiiIis, but the vessel
escaped damage by steering a zigzag
course,
Marks IIUIi.t In llollnml.
tiprt lal ( alilf Dtapixtch tn Tin. Sex.
I.iiNIioN, Jan 'JK, There has been n
sudden rise in the German exchange on
Amsterdam from i'l.in lo 42.110 guilder
per 100 marks,
The rate continues lo fall In Ihe
Scandinavian countries.
Maeharat, N. f .. cntr of aatdMr tptU.
ffot.l Csrolln. Holly Inn. U.rkjhlrs. New
1MB.-4ff.
RICHTOPAYOR
DEFENCE LOSES,
KITCHIN INSISTS
Won't Cut Income Level, I Mayor's Plan Strongly A li
st tun p Tax 31 list Go, if proved at First Con
1 ho Rill Passes. ference Here.
LEW ON MUNITION'S
AND HIGHER SURTAX
j
,,. , , . .!
Wash INUTON. Jan. 2S The plan of
House leaders to make the wealthy pay
for defence expenditures was confirmed j
informally to-day by Majority Leader
Kltchln. He Issued a statement which
foreshadows a bitter struggle between j
tho President nnd Congress unless the
President gives up the programme of
taxation outlined In his annual address,
Mr. Kltchln In the fight which he will
make against the President's, plan Is to
have Speaker Clark and oilier influential
party leaders at his back.
Unless the President yields the con
test will be prolonged and the defence
bills may be dragged down to defeat.
The differences between the President
and a considerable element of the Demo
crats In the House, for whom Mr. Kltchln
speaks, are clear and shatply defined. In
his statement given out to-day, speaking
as chairman of the Ways and Means
Committee, which originates revenue
legislation, he expresses the opinion that
funds for defence should be raised by an
lncrea.se in the surtaxes of the Income
tax law and a lcy on munitions. He
kis that the House will nut nenact tho
stamp tax features of the war act as spe
cifically recommended by th President.
Mr. Kltchln declared further that the ex
emptions of the income tux, now llxed at
M.iiun for married men and J3.OO0 for
single men, would not be lowered us
recommended by the President.
To 'I'm Munitions.
nmi tii.r-L-.tirv l.ivv f till f!ts (in LMmi.
I telle. li.,lihth:i. nllltinitihllf. !nfirnal ex-
plosion nglnes, fabricated lion and steel
products, naiiK checks nun pig lion.
Here Is Mr. Kltchln's reply
"As chairman of the Wa) and Means
Committee I am convinced that it Is
impossible to frame any revenue meas
ure and pass it through the House that
doe.s not place all appropt latlons fur the
Increase of the armv and the n.iyou the
income tax, and the exemption w ill not be
lowered. I am convinced that we can
not put through any revenue bill with
out practically tepialmg all the stamp
tats of the present emerg'ticy act Un
doubtedly war munitions will be taxed
also."
A good deal "f significant e Is nt
tachisl to the f.ii t Mat lhl s'atement
Is in harmony with a formal announce
ment on the question of iceiiiiis made
public .vesterdaj by S-'aker Clark
In that announcement Mr Clark
said that he was opposed to stamp taxes
of any kind and he favored lncnaes
In the surtaxes ,,f t!e thcmi. tax law
and a levy on inutiit 'on as the best wa
of obtaining ftniils for defence
Speaker Clark, Mr. Kltchln and other
House leaders had a lor:-,- conference to
dav The rcxetiu. situation was dis-
cussed at length and agreeruei,
that a IlKhl should is' made for
bill along I he lines Indicated
t'.i
tevi
in
he.
Mr.
Kltchln's statement
The plan of taxing 'wealth" lliti act
of "Industry" was 1 cached b Mr.
Kltchln nnd other
Icolets after seven-
of the House had
t.v-tlvn I 'emocrats
, thleatetied to kirk ovei
I sen ed notice that Ullli
the traces Thej
additional rev
enues llis'tlei! I"l irepatllllis wen.
gained through the Income tax. war mu
nitions and possibly an inheritance tax.
they would tight national defence and
the tax bill to a lln s-'i. With this no
tice before him. i-oupleil with iii'iulrlcs
made on his own account. Mr. Kltchln
ibsid'sl that the- Administration revenue
plan could not I"' put throimh the Hons.
President Wtl-on and his advisers are
fully Informed III regal el to the position
of Speake r Clark, Mr Kltchln and those
In sympathy with Hum on the revenue
i fpiestion Whethor they ate to stand pat
on the plan outlined In the President's ,
' message is not known. Some leaders are ,
, fearful that Mr. Wilson will adhere to
Ills programme! and throw down the j
gage of battle to Speaker Clark and,
Mr. Kltchln. If lie 'l'"'S so n generally
lis admitted that lie will llnd himself
I allo.it on a sea of trouble that may
' lead to ills ister In a political vvny.
1 Those disposed to I'otiti'iiil that the '
President will win his tight with the
House leaders point out that he had ,
his way in the last Congress on the !
taillT, banking and currency law, nntl-)
trust legislation and practically every t
other question that came up In Con-j
gress,
Kllcliln Is n Klithtcr.
The Democrat who Insist thai the
President will be courting defeat if he
tuns counter t the wishts of the leir , I
In this Instance recall lh.it In the lust '
Cnngri'ss Leader Underwood subordl- ,
ll.lted Ills Views to the I'll slth'Ut.
whereas Mr. Kltchln, the present leader.
Is disposed to make a spirited light unit
will have strong backing III a House
that is Deniociallc by a narrow margin.
There Is ariolliei angle to the nuht
nvi.1- revenue The Democratic insnn-Fiiea
who Informed Mi. Kltchln that they j
would never subscribe! to the Pii'sitlrnt'V '
revenue programme gave notice tlct j
they must have another concession, de
mandlng that .Mr Kltiiiin support bill
for the construction of a !nv er ument
owned nrinoi plant and a plant for
building gun foiglugs 'I lie-j point, d out
that In some tleglee thei Government
made all other forms of munitions, with
the result that prices had been regulated,
In their opinion. These Democrats In
sisted that Mr. Kltchln give assurances
lie would support mcasuies of hls char
acter. House Demociats admit that fi i mi a
pait.v standpoint the oi ganlzatlon Is In a
bad way. The oiHston of Speaker
Clark and Mr. Kltchln to the Ailmlin.i-
tratlon plan Is serious enough In itself,
but there ate other causes of worry, Mr I
Kltchln. liesliles niikliig a delermlinvl
tight on th" defence bills, Is shaipeuint:
his ii xe f"i' the Administration shipping
bill. lie ina) support tills nieasum if
there Is a lime limit phued on Govern
ment ownership of cat go catrli'is s,,
far no such pmilslon has hi en adopt,. I
Doubt Is expressed tli.it It would lie ac
cepted by the Administration, Mr.
Kltchln Is opposed to the cieatlou of a
tin Iff commission ami will itlao light th'e
Administration bill.
LEGISLATORSTO
AID CITY SAVING
OF $25,275,000
SENATOIIS PIIOM1SK
SUPPORT IN ALBANY
, ,. m,.i..o
Resolution Indorsing Mayor Mltchel
suggestions for reducing the budget fori
;i 17 by .25, 2,0,000 and pledging the
Senators and Assemblymen from the
greater city to the support of measures
embodying these suggestions were pre-
sented by Senator Ilobert F. Wagner
nnd Senator Ogden L Mills yesterday
afternoon at tho conclusion of a con
ference called by tho Mayor for the dis
cussion of the city's financial problems.
At the suggestion of Senator Wagner
no action was taken on these resolu
tions, but they are to be printed, along
with tho Maor"s remarks, and will be
distributed among the legislators and
ropresentatlves of civic bodies who were
present with the Idea that at another
conference next Friday everyldy will
clearly understand nnd be able to dis
cuss the promised measures. Many of 1
thojc picsent jesterday were not fa
miliar with the propose,! legislation ex-1
opt as It had
., 1 i. 11.
been summarized In th
newspapers,
siipimrt for I'lnn nt lbnn.
The resolution Introduced by Senator
Watftler pledges tile leglslatois to sup
port the budget reducing programme
as it was outlined to the Itrown 101
mittee tij the Mayor. That of Senator
Mills p'.'slgen atic legilatois to four
teen measures to bring about tlioe
economies, 1 inc of these authorises tlu
city to acquire- more land and property
than i actually needed for laying out,
widening streets or providing for parks
in other words, providing for excess,
condemnation, a method of making pub-,
II- l..l.v.m.i1l. cvhli.h I11- tt-orlcrtll
very
satisfactorily in Kngland and tier-
ruiny.
The council chamber was well tilled
when Mayor Mltchel called the confer
ence to order shortly after 4 o'clock.
Fifteen of the twent.v-two Senators
from the gtniter city were present and
there were furt -nine of the sixty-three
Assenblmen. .Many civic organizations
were representee! by individuals or by
enllimltties.
President William I'ellowes Morgan of
the Men harts A-k iciation took the
chair allei the Mam had coin lueb'tl bis
opening address Tin hour being late
It was decided that '!ieie sli uld be no
further discussion, but that the lesolu
lions prepared bv the Mo Sen itors
siToiiM be received and reserved t. r Mil
slderatton at the meeting next week
The ne.t mcet.hg will begin at .1 o'clt k.
Senatoi Klon It Itrown. majoritv
leach r in rhe State Senate and t halrmati
of the leglslttlve committee which has
Wen Investigating the cits' ilnatices,
.at with the Mavnr and members of the
Hoard of i:tlinat" The Mayor frc
HUcntlS refined to bin as favoring one
or another of the bills whlii lie was
explaining, either .t.v olllclals not dl
re'i tly collliee te'tl wltll the bu-lness pi
liaiid were preent. It was the Urst
gathering of the kind In the liistor.v of
the eitv. aciordlng to the .Ma.vor In
concluillng his remarks, the Mavnr
e.inl that had he thought It possible that
an partv or partisan interpretation
might be put upon the meeting he would
not have' called It.
Tells of K'J.-,.'JT..,IMMI lirilii.
Mavoi Mltchel said that If his pro
gi.imme were put thtou-ii this vear the
city eeitild save JlO.riTS.iion on Its pres.
int expenditures and Increase Its i ..ve
nues bv J.ri.;n0.oiin a total gain of f.'.'i.
27fi,Oiin. vhlch would be represented by
a tax rate reduction of 3!,i'.2."i points
As the llrst item on the saving side lie
put the illrect State tux of I ! It.'.eTo.riOO,
Gov Whitman and Slate Comptroller
Travis hiving asserted that no direct
State tax will be necessary next jear If
some semblance of economy Is preserved
bv the Legislature at Its present session
The Major's programme was sum-
niarlzei In the resolution of Senator
Wanner as follow s :
1. The iiv.ilil.i id i direct Stuin tax
for rifiit eur
2. Tli" gmntliig tn tlif ctly. of Initio, rule
over t'Xii.Mi.tltureii fur iniiiuv tiurHisii- nou
luilil fur from the eli tre.inurj
3 The transfer frmn the cltv in the
Sliite .if the i out of viiiatlmiitl training in
New V ntk elly
t The trunsfrr f rum (he e ir in the
tUte eif the ri-geiiii tory futicttnn nf the
I'litillc Service i.'iimiiilHsion in tht- I'lrst
District
u The aplinrtlnuinent to New Ynrk rlty
of Its I iinslluillonill shine eif ,SH(e high
wil H
1 Tli" irnnsfir to lb it from tli
Stule nf th prut eeils nf utoik tninefrr tan
collected In New Vurk eiti
7. Tin' division between the i ity hicI
the Stale of Hie prneeeila eif 111.- motnr
vehicle t it x toilectfil from vehici". nwiit'il
111 New Vnrk cltv.
S The division of tli new ei Is,. tie
tietive-en tin: lit! and the Hi. ,1c hh exi Is,.
tnves ho ve iilHllls turn illviileil In tho
p.lt
llconooi) III l.culslntor's rieeluc.
The resoliilion contains this, pledge:
"lie It further lesolvisl, thai th" legls.
lators from New Vork city pledge theni-
si'lves to a progranimi' or M itc econ
omy and to such further llnanclal mx.s
ores as will make possible ibe transfer
to the lily of the suggested rewniies
without making necessary a diiecl tax",
The programme set liefoie Hie legis-
av be su.nniarlzeil as follows. I clal cHcles It will I'" ""'I
i . 'inner iiiiniitliiifiit iiliollshlnir I posslblv with Justice, that Ml llraiide s
nf'l'ubu. A..i.,ln!-tMp!f U0"4!h,',f0nn,lr:,l.i."kt. the Judicial temperament I ill as
(ireiilcr New York isninri,., Hn, transfer- a political move anil all of tin' ' ' f
latoi's in ii'f i esi'ii.iiini hi ci-naior .viiiih
tlin! pnttim mm unties to trie city Cham
Abiilltlnn nf eirtlro of Ciuiiinlssinnor nf
Ilernrds "f New Veirk cnunty ami cunferrlng
of lit" powers upon the Ciiuiny Clerk of
s!,.. VniU
' 3 Ali.illlloii of nftlc
m.? HnTl'r.V
tlecnrils t'f
nntl cnnf.rrlrii! of his ,...5...'!
'nru ciiuiny Him cmirerriru: or ri . i,..w.
iition Ibe Siirrimt"s nf ,s,v Vnrk imnity
( APiilttlnn nf nlllce nf l'nmtnlm,e, ,,f
llrcnnls Klims cnunty nn.l Confi rrlim
lil powers ii"in the Cnunty Clerk, Keglster
anil run"s ' '
Charter .iiiifiiilinint transferring Inrt..
tliciiini "" - ....-I .ui mm.
... I ..... isill n I V IH I M n t,.l ......
iTIllinnti l'i e-'iiii - "iinin tne cltv tn I
6 c'lnint'i "un ri.ivuii' uoit'tiiinisnt tn
create nllh i' nf Hill nils.lnlier nf .Inrnrs nf
tin- cl'y "f New nrk iiinl iiliniihiR mev
of c'nintnll"ner of .Itirnrn lii ihn iivn ion,,,
tied
i liuror sini'iiiliiient Klvina Ilnard nf
Coillliniei em 'oiirri I'agr.
KX1lt im.WVIMIUIKIM AMI COM
I'AHTMKNT C'AKH TO tr UIHIIIA.
B.Kn.ril b'ln.llu t ..I .... t .,..,..,
.'.""," - V"" ?'". -' sjuevseai,
rl eilttlpptd lorlila Iruln. Inq , till U'way,
WILSON SHOCKS CONGRESS
BY NAMING BRANDEIS FOR
THE U S SUPREME COURT
SENATE POLL SHOWS 46 FOR AND 36
AGAINST BRANDEIS; 14 DOUBTFUL
WASHINGTON, Jnn. 28. A cnnvns.s of tho situntion in the Sen
ate to-day indicated that the chnmlier was divided on the question of
confirming Louis D. Brnndois for the Supreme Court substantially as
follows:
FOIt CONFIRMATION Ashurst, Heckhnm, Chamberlain, Piatt,
Culberson, Fletcher, Core, Gronna, Hitchcock, llollis, Hughes, Husting,
James, Johnson of Maine, Johnson of South Dakota, Kenyon, Kern,
La Follctte, Lane, Lea of Tennessee, Lee of Maryland, Leads, Mar
tine, Myers, Newlunds, Norris, Owen, l'hclan, Pitman, Poindexter,
Pomeretie, Robinson, Saulsbtiry, Shafroth, Sheppard, Simmons, Smith
of Arizonn, Smith of South Carolinn, Sterling, Stone, Swanson,
Thomas, Thompson, Tillman, Vnrdamnn nnd Williams. Total, 40.
AGAINST CONFIRMATION nankhend, Hrady, llrnndeRee,
Burleigh, Catron, Clark of Wyoming, Colt, Curtis, Dillingham,
du Pont, Fall, Gallinger, GolT, Harding, Lippitt, Lodge, McCumber,
McLenn, Nelson, Oliver, Overman, Page. Penrose, Ransdell, Reed,
Sherman, Shields. Smith of Georgin, Smith of Michigan, Smoot, Suth
erland, Townscnd, Wndsworth, Warren, Weeks and Works. Total, ,10.
DOUBTFUL, Cummins, Jones, Borah, Broussanl, Bryan, Chilton,
Shively, Clarke of Arkansas, Hnrdwick, Martin, O'Gorman, Smith of
Maryland, Underwood and Walsh. Total, 14.
BRANDEIS'S BOSTON FOES
TO FIGHT APPOINTMENT
liiti'i'l He ()iM)M'il . liil
li'i'ly .May Hp I.imI by Sena
tor Wi't'Ns.
1.0i:iS COOI.IlXiK IIITTKK
iiostos . ,lan.
-The news that Louis
l. nramiei mm been seiecieo ny rresi-
tlent Wilson for the Supteme Court
bench shockeel to silence nt llrst the
Interests that had been opposing iiran
dels since he stalled III- cnteef Later
thete was an outbreak that foftel s op.
Iiosltlon, ami one can gather the force
of It when It Is learnesl how Tieasuier
Ixnrls Coollilgc of the United Sins' Ma
chinery Company took It Sheii as'.ed
to liniment on the appointment Mr
Cuol.ilgc said. "His plat e is lit'l I the
bench."
Ml c'oolnlge did not mini e w ir s
Major lb m I. 1 ligginson. ' '
.oiii.tr.v's best known bankers whet
asked t. e xpris- hi' opinion s e'd tiat
he pd not care t" conune'iit. It wa seen
that lie had been unpiep.it id for the
news and sllnwe was considered beet to
rtii'c" his opinion.
It Is uer.erally belleve'l h
financial ll.teiets alld littler.-
re that t"e
Willi ii have
eipioe I
llnind.is will
cl'tltlllUe I'lt'li iil-
ro.val I attic will
po-itlon
an. I tint
.nit
i in account of Senator Week
liu itlillatlons II Is believed that
liank
he Will
be made the l. a.l. i of the opposition.
Ilertl of It"' Worl.els.
Theie is of com s,. a chance- that on
ru-nunt of Hie Senator's Presidential
aspiration-! h" will balk, but no such
course Is looked for. Itramleis W a hern
with the laboring element and he also
has a vast following among the so-called
middle classes,
i......,- elm niemlsTS of Hi- own race
be' is held in the highest esteem, and
i... ....mum reaches the slag" It
If
Is
headed for theie Is liounil io ne
i.r..ui.i..i,t Wilson has won many
lash.
fiictnls
among the .lews and others
i. ......... t lme lii. has also
by the up
aurav ated
I""""".' ... ' I,v 111 e
the adverse
iceimi-s i'o.-.-.-.
inoneveil Interesis
In
conillientlllg on tue nn"" '- " ''"
riaiion
Gov MeCall s.itil n-iiay: .'ii-
llrandeis is a brilliant law it ne mm
or in.iv not prove lo Is- a great Juii-l.
That will depend entlre upon whethei
he will hov the Judicial quality "
ui , i. Whlrc.ile retrKirked: "Louis
d' llrandeis I- a very able.
I.,, en- As a mill he Is Until
Icar ins!
niliiilcd
and "conscientious"
Cx.C.ov David I Walsh said- "The
nomination Is ad-, irable In every way
.... ii...... lii. is a reil progressive', vvltn
..ii linn.... - - - , ...
a profound knowiesigu oi
....rii.in to prove oiui of
law
.1 nl Is
the
glc.ltf.-t
Jurists that have ev
pi eine bi'tioh."
sat on
the Su-
Coltlllieilt of
Press.
"Mr
I Th" "os.on :.,.,'."
llrrillil
law it
111 lliniuesiloii.il .i.-ii...' "-
possesses mari.tsi nn-inii '
statement. His P'"'"'" a''IMl-s havo
been eiuisplciious and elTcclivc I In ,
,e is however. Jndlclallv mltnled. and
so Ideally titled for this post on the'
siiinretne bench, few eve-n of his frietnls
would b" HK'IV I" " ,l
controversialist lather than as a dis-
ii.n.ii. welnlier of facts ami aiKU-
1"'" . . ...i .l,.no .tl.ni
tncnls
thai nc ni" iiciiii-.i-o
This is
not Hie t.vpe i iniliel w-in n n is
pi ove
lions
I most S'TV li'l .lllle III till' lieunei.t-
nf the j-llini'l e Coin t."
The llitstnll I rnr ' III .
"The appointment will h" Inlii'th
. i.,..is. a in . ertaln business and linin-
i..iu In tliese ll.IVS nil' mi u
it will lie a bl'O.nll) helpllll "He The
Pti'Sldent 'oilld have dime a good ileal
worse, ami Iho lit of those whose names
l...... Ii I tilllll SUCH IH I'CIOK iiiini i ..'ii
shows tliat he could nnt b ive J
done inuch Is-tter than lm has done.
riie lloston idii.sciiiu
"Mr Hianilels Is a I icnits rat and
l.iwver of whose abilities Hie public
well aw ate. Ills rise lo fame, bow
vef.
bus briitialit lllni l"t
such sh irp i otilln t
I ' . , ee
with so many dlllcreiii lactors in inn
national life that though Hie President
is said to have wished hltn as a inombot
o his Cabinet he ilcctnnl It would be
Impossible! to get the Senate to omillrm
such a iiotlim.it toil, it Is, Hicicfoio, ic
grettaWei tliat what appears to bo the
exlgeuciixs of tho approaching Piesnlen
Hal ciimpalgll should havo caused Hie
President to atlcmpt to force upon tho
nmlMnum lMs-rffHit Farm Hauaace.
, Ttiey coat mora irr mtin sua ir. wn
Made al tUa Kuria, Southboroueh. Man,.
They coat mora try tntm sua ass why,
s.-
tLA?$rjL$lrMt iiHSiS9,i)
..!'! r i, ' A 'tier-, .i
Louis D.
n I'r V.s n
Brandeis,
S II e lie
re.ortci
tl'lll as
e'o'irt one whom 'he St'll.lte is
to 'iai. .nil umv.ll.iig to con-
1 IIH'tllber tif the I ' I lilbet
RAILWAY MEN OPPOSE.
SI. I.eml.
Opinion Is Cool Teivvierel
Urn Mtli'ls.
Sr Lulls. .Ian J --l'n - tlent Wil
sons se e.'tlitn of Louts D lliailili'is of
Itosi u, f,,. tin' ("luted Slate- Supreme
Court ict.-'s w .lb d.seipprovtil anioiig
all".. .ol mil, tli, inch ihc.v iffusc to make
all) i oniiiicht
"Meinliits i.i tin. bar are' much sui
pilscd at the appointiiiei't, ' -old II. S.
Priest, a leading at'.ornev and on ex
Judge. 'That is ail 1 liave to s.i.''
"lie is a ver.v ilistinguislied titan."
-.mi John S l.eah.v, unotlici proniiieut
l.i.vvei, 'ami lie is well iiiulilleil foi the
pile.! "lloivi'Vi'i. theie IS lUlte tlecldi tl
feeing against him In railioatl cifics"
Itiaiitli'.s practisetl law liere tlnrt
.vears ago befuic nioving to Huston.
His s.ste" was the llrst wit. of Clinics
N'agtl. I, Tiller Sccietai of iVmiiU'ri i.
anil Lal'O'
1I7V NOT CONEY?
r snnilie'l I III
llelreill '
cm er f nU s
rec Pre'ss.'
Driiinir. Jan.
; i'hc Prer 'irss
sfive
tlie I '.i anile s in ,in n.it nm
"i . ' il! Ihn Aniencaiis who liave
piesnil In.foi,, th,. pub. Ic view In the' Lis
ten M.us Louis 1 1 llrandeis Is in teill.
pel imciil and .n tiaitiiig petiiape- the
least tit lor the t.ilm, cold, illsp,it.sionate
Wink t'l tile Supreme Colllt nt the
Unite. I States,
"Whn motive could have Influenced a
I'lesiilcnt to appoint such a in. in to Mich
a p.is t inn ' lliaudeis, a .s-esnalisi or a
I'rogi i S.SIVO. used his iiitluelice in 1!M"
to have U'ogtes.Mes volt for W Iiow
Wilson. Hut was tlit'le un less toward
tliat In' would have taken for the sir
vi. ."
"Must the seciiritv of lit", ami putptitv
of .". i iuli.iltlt.ini of tne loiintiv I..
Ji op icdii'd bs'.iiis,t a political debt li.nl
to bo paid' Lotus D. Hraiiibis for Hie
Siip'onii' Court of rhe United Mates
i ih, w n.v tml Samuel Unlei inycr nt 'n.
J.n ob S i 'oxev
"I, is the solemn dul
, ,,,s ,,,, ,,,,
, .,,. ,,,. Ilu,
1 tlno . Il should i,t.ind I
llliv nf the .sen.ltt
on It tcji'Mcd
cd 111 Cleveland's
now between the
inunti) and tins pi. 'Miration of p.iium
,i;i' to p.i il isanshlp."
CHICAGO VIEWS DIFFER
i:-Miior llnrrlson I, mills llrnii
el els iin ii II I u
Mil n
i 'it if veil'. Jan I'resltlcnt Wilson's
K'b'itioii of llllls l Itf.indcis to be
Justice Lunar'? ,uci issor on tile I'tlllod
Sla'es Sup't'int. Court bencli caused
hum d etn 'Hons heie
i:-M.ivor Cuter II Harrison sml;
"Hi'.inilcls is a big iniii anil a big l iwvci
t Is in excellent e'holi e. and the best of
il Is Mi llran.lcis s to bo funnel em the
side of the people, which ih a tniglit.v
good Ih.nu "
Sla-on i'hoini'son. I.
ail
nf Hie ntircatl
oiittiiierif on Srronit I'ngr
For rniirihliiT iH't "' tripn or scire throat
, nae llnrllck'i ilaluil Uk Avoid aubatPmaa.
I -ai. . v
j Select ion Declared to Be,
llased (in Political
Motives.
UK'S FIRST .IK W MVKIJ
PICKKI) FOR IlKNUH
Lonr and Hitler Firlit Fx
pected in Senate Over
Cnnt'ii'iiiatiiiii.
PRKSIDKNT XKKDS
THRKF VOTFS TO WIN
Judiciary Committee Said
to He Ajrainst the Hos
ton Lawyer.
WAsiiiMiieiN, Jan. 2.- I'rcMdi'iil
Wilson nominated Louis I). Hiiindoli
of llostnn to-day for Associate Justice
of the United States Supreme Court to
Mlcceeil the late .lutlce Lamar of
Georgia.
To say that tin- nomination of Mr.
llt.iiuleis to tin- highest tribunal w.m
a shock to rrtosl of tin l nlcfs III t'oli
giess and to oilltial Wiisliiimtou in
IMlttlng It mildly. Not in .visits has a
nomination by the President htiru-d
such bitter lominciu in CniigrisM n
was made.' when tin. selection of tins
Huston attorney became known. There
i. a feeling of disappointment lit
Washington over the nomination ami
11 Is said that tiletnbel.s of the Su
pl-cme Colli t vvctc Miilly sllt ptlstd
A lung ami blue r tight will bo waged
ovi'f the ciintittnatiem of Mr. lPiiudcUi.
l is cleaily apparent tr.at if lie wcro
obliged to go before the Senate ptllely
em his int'llts he would be ib tiated.
TioTe Is. li'Uvi'Vel. d.nis,tr tli.it til
1 .1 C till Issue Will bet ollle illV't'Vtli 111
the stnugle, and in ilmt event it
would be illtllcult to picdiit lmw mem
bers of the Senate vvnunl vole. Ai
leadv theie ate' cv nlilp cs that this
phase
of III" .situation is lutlu'iirini;
those
Upon
who will be called llpnll to pasj
Ml. Hraiiib'us'.s qn uilu iliuiis.
tlllllllss eil Ihe s,., it,
A canvass cd the sitiuitinii m tho
M'tlati' tills alte'lIlOlill ellMln.slll tip,
fact thai President S'iiott an now
j , 1 1 I .. 1 1 1 1 i. itiru iipnii n ' -mx Sina-
lotS to Mite tor l iilllil III. It, on Alllol,
these, though, ale fll.ltiv Wl.o opelllv
.icklnnvleilge I ll.it tllt ib p. ore tin
..ppollltllleiit iil.il beiicve tin licsnltnt
)iii made a grtat ims'iike, Inn ihcy nlo
vvilllits, to .stand li b.m There wile
thi.'t.v-stx Senatiii',s whn vvtti nppisu'd
to e Kiilli iri.it nii and imii'ti i n vvhu are
ilollbirul.
Hub tin t -nine vvmilil be necessary
to lontlriii. mi rli.ii un this showing it
would bo m i css.ir.v lor the l'n snlciit
In swing onl thlee Senators fiotn Hie
iltillhtliil list to in .stue a vninr.v. The
chain ch I'm' i niilli million at pre -e lit
WDIlIll thi'lelnrt' appear to In gnihi if
the iiiattet t oiilil lie lu-nugh' rn a vnie
Hilt it Is i e t, un that ll.o.- W'n, lie -lave
tliat Mr I li'aiiile:.- is unlit t r ,i.e
Supiiiile beinh win n.n peinrt an
i ati.v vote', and thc.v cxpei t if win over
soine nf tin men who ,in tnivv lit, Pi cl
to .-1 1 1 '. l'i 1 1 n : 1 1 tlli-ll it I's.iri ii vn ws
il'ltl hlippol't tile Pi cslllt'lll
Tlio chief objection iitjed i-- nsi
M" Hf.indi ls lii the St naii h i.i i,.
i.t'a.-in Sunn Sclialnt.s nt H. toii
sitvative type ciiiiti ml :,. hi has
been ton i lnei'lv itli'iilllli'il w.th 1 1 list
legis) ition nf a iailii.il Ivpc In be
itia!l!iiil to .-It 1 1 1 1 1 1: i ft ,. I ' . in su, Ii un
p'lii.iiit mutteis as tin iiittrn.ition.il
llniM'ster ami htct'l trust
Ill uililittoll llll.illicl.il i hit lis 1 ill n
already I n ltslgeil m He Son. no
, mains' Mr. I'.raiulois aifct i ,n-! his pin-
t'l S-Sllltl.il I I lllll III 'I . bill lln-e ,uc IIOL
llipn! te'd Ii) I'V ll llic.
.Ilielle'liir.i I eMilllllfle'e lunore'el.
A in.ijoiitv
nf the lit'l .mi i 'on
III. til e, W lilt II Will In Cllle
tl upon to , ts,s
till tile IIOItl.ll.lt mil tietote 1
fore tin' Senate, is clearly
Is I.i ui he.
'ipliiis, d to
i niitll III It'nl' I suallv tin in, ii I
tills iiitntlittee ale i oii'.llH"i bj line
Plesnbnl in ri'C.uil to Supri 'i,t I'ntitt
apl'olt.tit'eiits. bin Mi W il-hi took nou..
of the St ii. Hois into Ins ioiiiiil.ini. in
regard to Mi lltaiulcis
So intcnsi was tin' leclit.g win n His
nppnitltlllclit Ills! rc.lt'iiiii II, e senili,
that II vvas s.e.il thai Inn t , t u lit r
of tlie .Itiilliiar.v Coniiiiiiite vi. nl v..'..
foi a favotable tepoit on the ii,nn,',u
Hon Laid th.s sliilcnieiil wi- fo mil
to be III! l'.ll.'gcl. itlnll. bill II W I - ill
dent that the iioiiiiiiatioii mnot ,,n
tnainl a in iJ'T.t.v of lli.it cii niii.e
II was llct'l. pll'il.cllil Ih Ha tsiliili,
that the nomiii'itlon will eiilo i 1. i. -1
1, 1 1 1 1 , 1 nn fa x nt .ilily at the tl i r nieciiiig
of Hie cnin'ii.iti r els,, h, mug. will
tie In Id to ilclcrniilic Hie 1 1 1 : i ! . Hniiis
in, I Illness of the tiiuiilnie bttoi,. am
action I- I il.eii.
I'Miullv wlnn i Supi i uic t 'oiiii Iumhv
is holll.llilteil the'le' is lint iVtn a ug.
gest'oll ,li .ish.ngti'll of Hit P'thsMiin
political ellcct Presiib nt i , fi ,p-
polllletl live' Ille'tlbeis nt II,. hi-.'hesl
iiiiiri, in.iiiililig the i liii'l' .li-u i n I
pnl line of Ills lippinli' llelll Wis , ntn
lllelltid nil III .1 pililln ll Wiiv is, "pi i
the wa of a lelii.u'k lliil l Hi linlilii an
Presiilcnt h.nl made i I i . ,1 Ch.ef
Justice
Tiwla.v, liowiver, on ill -i'h ,pc. ul.i
lion vvas heard as to (lie p ' I , 0 eii'e, i
if lhc appnintincii' "f M, t it
Senile- I 'eniiicr.lt'- po n "il . '1' I i it lis '
Ik the tli set Jew tn be tuvii', , l ei I in in.
United Slates Supre in m inn i r
cunistllilce wollltl have i l"' 'tied etTe
'upon Ihe aliunde - o imiiln l nf
tlioiu-aitds of Jewish v "ti ,n lie 1. 1,1
