Daily and Sunday ?Q A\ Cents a
HERALD OU Month
DELIVERED TO YOUR HOME.
THE
HERALD
AS MsMobwrcd [J??uar7 1. 1916. Tb? Herald
guara-ante? ful! AMtaey t worth to the purcha*er?
of articles *?<jvictJ??d ti tbe duplay cciumns of thi?
paper by any Washt**t?/ton mer Jean!
{Circmiar Pumukte I to* Reamttf).
NO. .3392.
WEATHER?CLOUDY; COLDER.
WASHINGTON. D. C. SATURDAY, JANUARY 29, 1916.
f\TC\? ?^??G**?? ?a? manmimmtam an* ?..?.1. ?s??r???
KjJmmZi X^XUiX X. Tke.rl. ixiiuium i-m O I ??*Tt
t!?TaV
GERMANS BEGIN BIG
DRIVE IN ARTOIS, BUT
A TTACKS ARE FUTILE
Four ?Assaults Launched Against French Front,
Footing Being Gained at
Only One Point.
?- ? mtt>
ARTILLERY FIGHTING FIERCE
British Check Teuton Onslaught Northeast of Loos?German
Losses Reported Heavy, I 50 ?Soldiers Being
Found in One Crater Wide by Mine.
Cable to The Weahlegtoa llrrald.
London, Jan. 27.?The Germans have IgKun their great drive in
Artois. Following artillery preparation lasting forty-eight hours, four
successive attacks were launched today at different parts of the French
front. They gained a footing in advanced French trenches at one
point. The other attacks were repulsed, according to the Paris official
report.
Still another attack against the British salient northeast of Loos re
sulted in a check for the Germans, says the British headquarters re>
port.
The scene of the attacks was the stretch of line from Loos to Arcas,
the cockpit of the most terrific fighting in previous tests of strength
on the west front.
Heevy German losses are claimed by'
the French In actions which preceded
tbe great ?drive, ln -tne crater formed
by a mine exploded to wreck the French
ed venced trenches near Arras, 150 Ger
man bodte* were counted.
The French official statement issued
at midnight in Paris says:
"In Artois the artillery fighting haa
been particularly Intenae. The Germani
directed suixeMive attacks on different
part* of the front West of HU? No.
I?, south of Givenchy, after a ?erte?
of mine explosions, they succeeded in
n-nin; a footing in some ??ectlon* of
advanced trenchc?
Attark I? '(-,. ? :..??!
"Another attack launched at th? aame
moment agalr.at otrr poaltlone near the
road from Neuville to Le Folie was crsn
p^t?ly repu'sed.
"A third attack which waa being pre
pared at the same time was made on our
?arks north of Rocllncourt and was
rtot?pe?i short by our artillery and rifle
f.rc. The Germana in thia Instance were
unable to leave their trenchca.
"Finally a fourth attack. In the road
from St. Laurent to St. Nicholas, north
east of Arras, suffered a complete check.
"South of the road from Neuville to
la t'oli? during the forenoon, we re
captured a fresh crater after a spirited
I'g'jt. and repulsed the enemy's violent
counter-attacks.
"South of Arras our positions were
subjected to an intense bombardment,
but no Infantry attacks were made. Our
batteries responded energ*etlt*ally.
"Between the Somme and tl*_**? Oise, our
trench guns wrecked the opposing Ger
man works and demolished an ooserva
tlon post southeast of Lassigny.
"Ia the Vosges, uur artillery shelled
Stocke and ?tosswihr with good re
solte.
"In reprisal for the bombardment by
a Zeppelin on January ? of villages in
th? region of Eperney. one of our diri
gibles bombarded Frleburg-ln-BrisgHu
?luring the night of January ?7-K.
Kithteen ahel's of Ibi millimetres and
twenty of ninety millimetres were drop
ped on th? railway station aid military
establishments, which suffered important
damage."
SAYS GERMANY
LOSES CREDIT
British Banker Declares Kai
ser's Foreign Balances
Are Exhausted.
Special Catti? to Tka Waihiaiton Herud.
London. Jaji. 28.?Bankers and other
financial experts regard Sir Edward Hol
den's address be/or? tbe meeting of the
shareholder! of the I-ondon Clt> and
Midland Bajik today ma the moat impor
tant stat'-meat on war ? nane? jet <Jo
??Myered outside of tierratiy.
The *G?*-*' ? constitutes a reply to re
cent attacks on Great Britain's ?nanclai
position by the German minister of
finance. Herr Helfferich. Sir Edward de
clarea Germany's credit balan?as abroad
are exhausted and her exporta have di
minished so seriously as to make It dif
ficult to finance her Imports. He adds
that the Germans have sold nearly all
their American. Swiss, Scandinavian and
Russian securities, and hence gold ex
ports have become inevitable for her.
He challenges Herr Helfferich to reply
to ten categorical questions covering
these and other points regarding Ger
many's economic position.
Financiers here also derive great satis
faction from Sir Edward's references to
the fact that, on account of the British
Income tax being equal to from 15 to 17
per cent under tbe existing law, the first
British war loan returns were only 3 per
cent and the last only 3 3-4 per cent, and
on this b-aats Great Britain has raised
?about 1,000.000,000 pounds sterling.
At the same time. Holden urges that the
British government consider the fact that
other belligerents have flung aside the
income tax on war loans, which forms
a deterrent influence on the complete
success of the issues. Incidentally, Sir
Edward said:
"We are under great obligations to the
(American bankers for the magnificent
fepirit they showed in buying, straight
out, that -J300.000.000 loan."
Tomorrow's
SUNDAY HERALD
ONE CENT
Main News Section
Sporting Section
Theatrical Section
Society Section
Fraternal News
Army and Navy News
Club News
Boy ?Scout Activities
FOUR-COLOR COMIC SECTION
AND
FOUR-COLOR MAGAZINE SECTION
ONE CENT
Delivered At Your Door
Just Phone Main 3300
Or Call at Main Office, 1322 New York Avenue
"Russia Only Starting
To Rfht," He Says
Secciai to Th? WaaMnat'-n Herald.
New York, Jan. 28.?"Rustia
is just beginning to fight," said
Dr. Frederick W. Eastman who
arrived in port today on the
anchor liner California, two
days overdue from Glasgow and
Liverpool, after a long struggle
through heavy seas and stormy
weather. Dr. Eastman is a
graduate of a New York medi
cal college and went to Europe
on the Red Cross relief ship.
"The Russian peasant is just
beginning to understand that he
is at war," said the doctor.
"They have plenty of guns, am
munition, and food supplies, and
at KiefT there are 1,000,000 men
in training to be hurled against
the German-Austrian front in
the spring."
MONTENEGRO TO
AID AUSTRIANS,
TERMSJMVIDE
Text Announced by Vienna,
Says Berlin?Austria
Takes Seaports.
WILL PUSH OPERATIONS
Little Kingdom Must Furnish
Food, Homes and
Transportation.
PRISONERS TO BE RELEASED
Mountain Monarchy Requests Imme
diate Negotiations to Quiet
Populace.
Berlin 1 la Savville) Jan. ??The tarnt
tt the treaty of peace between Monte
negro and Austria-Hungary haa been
marie public ln Vienna. The treaty waa
stgned on January 25 at Cettinje by Lieut.
Field Marshal von Hoefer and MaJ.
Schuppich on behalf of the Austro
Hungarian? and by Gen. Beclr and MaJ.
Lorapar on behalf of the Montengrln
government.
One paragraph of the treaty provides
that the Austro-Hungarian army shall con
tinue military operations in Montenegro.
The Montenegrin authorltlea promise to
lend all possible asalstance to th? Austro
Hungarian military force by furnishing
food, water, means of transportation,
and housing for the troops.
It ts further agreed that all Monte
negrins shall lay down their arms. Only
persons attached to the police are to
be allowtxl to carry revolvera. The Monte
negrin government Is to furnish exact
details aa to the badge numbers of these
persona.
AH German and Austro-Hungarian pris
oners In Montenegro are to be released
Immediately. Montenegrins who were tak
en prisoners by Austro-Hungarlans pre
vious to the capitulation on January 17,
at 8:30 a. m., are to be released at the
conclusion of a general peace. Monte
negrin prisoners who were captured after
this hour are not to be considered as
prisoners of war but are to be permitted
to return freely to their homes.
Aaatria (?eta ?rainirt..
The Montenegrin government fur
ther promises all assistance to the
Austro-Hungarian authorities In case
of local opposition to the agreed con
ditions.
The Montenegrin authorities surren
der to the Austro-Hungarlans all sea
ports, landing places, railroads and
fortifications, the same to be held by
the Austro-Hungarian authorities un
til the conclusion of a general peace.
A significant paragraph ln th* treaty
ia article 10, which reads:
"The Montenegrin delegates request
that peace negotiations be begun as
soon as possible, since thia would have
a quieting Influence upon popula
tion." ,
Millions Left in Will.
Somerville, X. J.. Jan. 28.?The estate of
Mra. Cynthia Dryden. widow of John F.
Dryden, founder of the Prudential In
surance Company, amounts to several
million dollars. According to the will
filed today, the bulk of her estate goes to
her children. Forrest F. Dryden. present
head of the Prudential, and Mrs. A. R.
Kuser. of Bernardaville.
Miners Want More Pay.
Indianapolis. Jan. 28.?The United Mine
Workers' of America late this afternoon
adopted the report of the scale commit
tee which asked for a raise of ten per
cent for the bituminous miners, and twen
ty per cent for the anthracite workers.
Germans Move on Salonika.
Paris, Jan. 28.?The Bucharest cor
respondent of the Intranssigent sent a
dispatch this afternoon stating that two
German divisions are proceeding to Salon
iki from Temesvar.
Baltimore aad Ohi? ta Baltimore.
11.50 round trip every Saturday and
Sunday; good? returning until 9 a. m.
Monday.?Adv.
?
Brandeis Nomination Faces
Fierce Fight in the Senate
-
Executive's Choice as Supreme Court Associate Justice
Embitters Many Democrats Who Declare Boston Law
yer Unfit?Preliminary Canvas Shows Weakness.
"Infamous," "Pleasing," Are Opinions
On Nomination of Louis D. Brand?is
Here are some comments by members of Congress on the Brand?is
nomination:
"Tbe nomination of Louis I* Brand?is to be an associate justice of
the United States Supreme Court Is both clever and wise," said Repre
sentative Meyer London, of New York, the only Socialist member of
Congress.
"Any Senator who vote* to confirm Mr. Brand?is ought to be chased
out of the Senate," exclaimed one Democratic leader.
'"It seems to me that the President muet have been moved by a
desire tm rally to his standard the radical reform element which Is dis
satisfied with everything," said one Republican leader.
"An able, fearleas and progressiv man ami phenomenal attorney,"
said Senator Chamberlain, of Oregon
"Only one Oemocrat on the Judiciary Committee will fsvor him,"
said a Republican member of that committee.
"Infamous," said a Western Republican Senator.
"Socialist!" exclaimed a New Kngland Senator.
"His name will never come out of the committee, and if lt does there
will be formal hearings on his eligibility.'" predicted another.
"A thoroughly pleasing appointment," said Senator Kenyon.
The nomination by President Wilson ?
yesterday of Louis D. Brand?is to be ?
an associate justice of -"he Supreme Court
of the United States to succeed the late .
Justice Lamar has created the biggest
political sensation of months.
Indications are that the fight in oppo
sition to confirmation ot* Brandeis by the
Senate will be lengthy snd hoc
The naming of Mr. Brand?is was a
shock to most of the leaders tn Congreas
and to official Washington. Not in year?
has a nomination by the President stirred
up such bitter comment in Congress as
the selection of the Boston attorney.
"Infamous." "a Socialist," "any Sena
tor who votea to confirm him ought to
be chased out ?of the Senate." were a
few of the expressions that fell from the
lips of prominent Senators, two of them
Democrats.
It was clearly apparent yesterday thst
if Mr. Brand?is were obliged to go be
fore the Senate purely on his merits, he
would be defeated. There is, however,
danger that the racial issue will becom??
Involved in the struggle an-1 in that ermmt\t
it would he difficult to predict how mem
bers of the Senate would vote.
A canvass of the situation in the Senate
disclosed the fact that President Wilson
can probably count upon forty-six Sena
tors to vote for confirmation. Among
these, though, are many who openly
acknowledge that they deplore the ap
pointment and believe the President has
made a mistake, but they are witling to
.stand by htm. Fourteen member* %re
doubtful.
Only foaty-nine would be neceaanry to
confirm, so It would be nete?aaar> for the
1 President to awing only three Senatori
? from the doubtful Hat. The chancee for
confirmation at preaent would, therefore.
appear* to be rood If the matter cauld
be brought to a vote. But It la certain
that thoae who belleTe that Mr. Brandet?
la unfit for the Supreme bench will not
' permit an early vote, and they expect to
i win over by argument aome of th* men
j who are now Inclined to subordinate
thetr personal vlewa and support the
? real dent.
The chief objection urged against Mr
Brandete ta hts radicalism. In addition
to this, unofficial chargea already ha1?
been lodged against hira with Senator?
affecting his profesaional conduct. But
these are not aupported by evidence.
A majority of the Judiciary Committee,
j which will be called upon to paw on the ,
\ nomination before it la laid before the
) Senate, is clearly opposed te confirma
? tlon.
' Some Dem?crata point?**-**?.! out that Inas
much aa he ffii the flrat Hebrew to be
i appointed to the United States Supreme
?Court, the circumatancea would have a
, decid?d effect upon th? attitude of the
hundreda of thousands of Jewish voters
toward President Wilson.
The fact that'Mr. Brandete Is of Ger
man ancestry and etudied In Germany is
a feature of the appointment which some
?Democrats think may commend lt to Ger
; man-Americans.
"I Adored Him, Despite His
Cruelty," Declares Mrs. Mohr
By DOROTHY DIX.
H penal to The Withmgtcm Herald.
Providence, Jan. 28.?Gray-faced, hag
gard, worn, her eyes with the ?saggy
puffs of sleeplessness under them, but
with her nerves strung up to a fighting
pitch, Mrs. Mohr came upon the witness
stand this afternoon to do battle again
with Attorney General Rice for her free
dom.
Sometimes she wept. ' Sometimes she
smiled mirthlessly. Sometimes she raged
furiously. ?Sometimes she snarled with
her lips drawn back from her teeth.
Sometimes she clawed viciously, but she
never once broke down or went to pieces,
as every one prophesied she would do.
Her voice, which had been inaudible
HEIRESS WILL
WED ANOTHER
Daughter of Millionaire Oil
Magnate Wires Elmer
Frazier.
-*
Chicago. Jan. 5S.?Sometime last De
cember Mi?? Helen Susanne Galey.
daughter of* Jame? G. Galey, millionaire
oil magnate of Beaver. Pa., announced
her engagement to Elmci Frazier, of
Washington, D. C.
Uuring the Christmas holidays she
visited her fiance's home, and friends of
both young person? were profuee ln their
well-wishing. Recently Mr. Frazier's
fiancee came to Chicago to visit her ?la
ter, Mr?. A. W. Harris, Jr., and all un
known Romance came along.
A week ago she met John Marshall
Kelly. Thing? began to happen from
the moment of the meeting. There were
theater parties, dinner partie?, and the
| ater partie?. Thursday night the young
I person? decided to be married. They
? chose today as the date.
J Miss Galey sent the following telegram
to Mr. Frailer ln Waahlngton as a Pre
! Umlnary step:
I "It 1? only once a lifetime that one
j really loves and when the time com.???,
! nothing can be allowed to stand ln th*
way of love's fulfillment. 1 have met
j the man whom I love; who ha? shown
? me that I never loved before, and I
? rely upon your generosity in assuming
that our engagement is at an end."
Mr. and Mrs. Kelly left tonight for
the East. After an extended honeymoon
they will make their home In Chicago:
where Mr. Kelly It connected with the
local office of the firm of Kelly and
Jone?, hardware
the day before, rang out loudly with
defiance Necessity had lent her courage |
and ?he fought blindly with the despera
tion of a rat ? a trap.
It was a pitiless cross-examination ahe
was subjected to. It stripped her bare
of every rag of convention-il respect
ability and swept away all of th? poor
pretense? of virtue and goodneas with
which she had sought in order to build
herself up a place in society as the wife
of a big rich man.
When it ended it had shown her not
only as a woman who had contracted
common law marriage, hut one whose
husband claimed that when she did in?
QOOTOnm ON TAGE TWO.
U. S. PLAN IS
NOT FAVORED
Wilson's Proposal for Disarm
ing Merchant Ships
May Fail.
Strong doubt ia felt in State Depart
ment circles aa to whether Great Britain
and her allies will accept the Informai
proposale of the United Statea govern-i
ment looking to an agreement for the dta
armament of all merchant vessels.
Informal communications have been
aent to Great Britain and France, through'
their local embassies, and copies supplied I
to the other entente alliea, suggesting}
that a modus vivendi be established under'
wtych they ahall agree to disarm mer-i
chant vessels, provided the Teutonic pow
era, for their part, shall agree not to
attack unarmed merchantmen without
firat exercising the duty of warning, visit
and search, and making provision for the
safety of passengers and crews on board.
Great Britain, the State Department ]
haa been unofficially informed, looks
askance at the proposal, first on the >
ground that international law has always;
recognised the right of a merchant vessel
to carry defensive armament as protec
tion against illegal attack, and, secondly,
on the ground that such an agreement
would leave British shipping at the mer
cy of lawless submarine warfare.
The Teutonic powers, on th? other
hand, have Instated that because of the
impossibility of drawing the Him between
defensive use of guns on merchant ve#
eels. approached by submarine*, and re
sistance to lawful capture, armed ship*
of the kind must be regarded as auxiliary
cruisers and therefore not entitled to
consideration.
"War Jost Beginning/'
Ststes Lloyd George
?pedal Cabla to Tb? Waaklaftaa BanM.
London, Jan. 28.?"I think
that for us the war is only
beginning," said David Lloyd
George, minister of munitions,
in an interview today with the
London correspondent of the
Milan Secolo.
"I am, however, absolutely
confident of victory," he add
ed, "because although we all
have made mistakes in the past,
England and her allies are now
taking counsel together and will
be stronger because they are
united.
"By next spring we shall have
for the first time more muni
tions than Germany, and our
superiority in men is unques
tioned. Besides this,* Germany's
financial position is growing
worse daily."
GERMAN ATTACK
ON SALONIKI IS
REPORTED NEAR
Teutons Mobilizing on Greek
Border for Drive in Feb
ruary, ?Say Advices.
ALL POINTS TO ASSAULT
Vigorous Campaign Planned
In Effort to Drive Allies
From Balkans.
GREEK SITUATION IS SERIOUS
Internai Affai? Said to Have Arrived
at Cn?is?Frencii Captar?
Turk Garrison.
Riatta! Tabi? to The Waafcinjlou Herald.
London, Jan. 28.?Oermany and her allie?
are preparing* for a great att?ck 011
Saloniki early ln Fehruary. Dlapatrhes
from various point? G? the Hakan? tell
?if heavy movement? of troops and great
concentration? alon? the Greek frontier.
The Saloniki ?-?orre?pondent of the Time?
wire? that It I? believed there the ftr?t
move ln the campaign to drive the allies
from the Balkans will be made about
February 10.
TiiTkl?h veteran? from Gallipoli are on
their way to the Greek border, the Pari?
Tempe correspondit ln Bucharest re
porta. I>lecu;??lon of thl? move I? wide
spread in Roumanian diplomatic circle?.
he aaiaert*. Two German division? are
proceeding from Temeevar to the Greek
theater to re-enforce the Teutonic for???s?
there, according to the f?uchareat coi
repsondent of the Pari? Intransigeant
Field Marshal von Mackensen. the noted
Ua?nnan commander who directed tlie
Balkan campaign, is said to have ar
rived Incognito at Sofia, to complete plana
for Bulgaria?? participation ln the cam
paign with King Ferdinand and the
Bulgarian army chief?. The Kaiser'? re
oent visit to Nleh, it i? ?tated, wa? for
tbe purpose of arranging the final detail?
for the drive on Saloniki.
While the Teuton? and their alile? are
gathering strength for an Invasion of
Greece, the Internal situation ln that
country ha? reached a cr?ete. The Dally
Telegraph ha? received the following
from It? correspondent at Rotterdam
Greek ?Itnallon Serlo??.
"Copie? of the Voe?i?che Zeitung reach
ing her? today contatn a telegram from
Constantino^^ which ?ay? for three days
communk-atlM with Greece ha? been
broken. A diplomat confirm? rumor? that
the situation in Graaaece l? very ?erioua
An Important peraonage arriving from
Sofia declares that Greece 1? being hin*
dered tn it? frea?dom of ?ctlon."
An official statement lasued In Paria
today announces that Fi-ench marinas*
have occupied Antiphllo. Asia Minor, cap
turing the Turkish garrison Antiphllo i?
near the Gulf of Makrl, and Is opposite
Castelorito.
Neophyte Sues Owls.
Washington. Pa.. Jan ? ?Suit for tit?
damages against the officer.? ot Manifold
-, est of the tjrder of Owls ha? been filad
by Joseph Lesut, who ?aya he eustatntad
painful Injurie? when struck daring an
initiation with a pair of barrel stave?
between which an expletive cap had
been placed.
Sixty-three Below: Sight Periih.
Helena, Mont, Jan. 3S ? Eight persons
perished In Montana during the intense
cold of th? past fe? daya Temperaturas?
as low aa ? below? xero were reported?
the lowest ever recorded. Ten towns In
Sheridan County have wired for halp.
Some of them ?re threatened ?nth
famine.
Electrocutions Kill Warden.
Raleigh. N. C. Jan. S-Stricken with
haart failure juat aftar he had turned
ion the electric ?witch for a double exe
ention. Warden ?. G Sale? of the North
Carolina State Prison, died In a Uf
miaut? teda.?
DIPLOMATIC BREAK IF
BERUN DOESN'T YIELD
TO U.S., IS PREDICTION
Von Bernstorff ?Said to Have Told Berlin
Rupture Is Likely If Demands
Are Not Granted. ?
MUST ADMIT ACTS ILLEGAL
State Department Officials Intimate Governir^ent Will Not
Back Down in Holding Teutons to Strict
Accountability lor Sub Attacks.
Wilson Puts Time Limit
On Demand on Germ-any
New York. Jan. JO-Tbe New York World rnnttit tht foUe-wmg dit
patch from Washington :
"'President Wilio hat gi\?tn Germany until FeWuarj { to state fraeklv
to this forernment whether it imeads to disavow the attack opon the
Lxsitania with the resulting los? of 115 Amenta? butta.
"It is imponible to sute what the President will do if th? Kaiser fail?
to meet the demands within the *fct.acribed time. The World has be?**?
advised that he has decided upon a coarse fhat will he inai, bat it is un
known to any except himself and Secretary Lansieg, and neither will
disclose the next move.'"
?
Count von Bernstorff, th? German Ambassador, has been given to
understand that failure on tlie part of the German |W?M to yield
to the demands of the United States for a disavowal of the Lusitania
attack may lead to a rupture in diplomatic relations between the United
States and Germany.
The Ambassador, it was d-rdaxed last night in wdl-informed quarters,
lias so advised his government. A definite answer from Germany
is expected to reach Washington on or before next Friday, the day
on which President Wilson returns from his national defense campaign
in the Middle West.
The u anting to the Genr.an -ApJonutic representative i<- understood
to have been convey??! to him by Secretar} l-??\mta?X last l^ees-tay,
( wht-n the Asmo conferred in regard to the late* ?kBiurrer on the part
I of Berlin to the der.arub of tbt l'nited States.
WILSON BEGINS
DEFENSE TOUR
Executive's First Address for
Preparedness ^ill Be in
Pittsburgh Today.
President Wlleon left at ?*:? o'clock
laat night on bla one-week expedition t?
preach the administration's ?preparedneM
program to the people He ?al ?ched
uled to make nineteen ?peiechea before
hi? return to Waahlngton next Friday
afwrnoor. nine of which will be from
tbe r??ar platform of hi? private car.
The Pr-iaJldent wa? txcotmpariira f>y
Mr?. Wllaon. Joaeph ? Tumulty, hi? sec
retary; Dr. Cary T. Grayson, hla physi
cian; fourteen newspapermen, ?Ave Se
cret 8erviarje operali???, two stenog
raphers two messenger?, a maid and
railroad representatives.
lt was made plain that national de
fense will be the sole subject discussed
by the President In hi? sp??ech?fis. The
ban has been placed oa pol?tica Con
ferencia of no ?ort with State or local
poli;lclan? will be held. It waa aaid.
Pittsburgh, where he will arrive thl?
afternoon, will be the Prealder.t'? flr?t
stop. He will ?ddres? a public meeting
tn the auditorium of Memorial Hall at
t p. m. and Immediately following will
make another brief ?peecii to an over
flow meeting tn the hall belew .To
right he ?rill ?pe?k at Gray'? Armory
In Cleveland. The Presidential party
will ?pend Sun?ay In Cleveland
A ? tie Will Mr .. Tv-ar'a HMrrt.
Other ?cheduh ' eches will be at the
Auditorium in Milwaukee on Meada? aft
? ?* rnc-ou. at the Audltoriun. in Chtoago or,
Monday night, at the 'Onseuaa in i ?e?
j Moine? on Tuesdaj nlglu. at th? Aud.
| torium. ?nd ?t the high ?cr.ooi building
1 In Topeka, Kan on V? eon e ?day after
; noon, at Convertion Hal '.-. Kinn, ? '?? ?
I on Wedneaday n.?.ht. and at the Coliseum
! In St Laoul? on Thuraday morning
The Preeldem ?Ul ?p*-a. oriefiy fron-.
1 the rear platform of hi? private ?rar at
[Waukegan. Ill Kenoeha, Wia Ratine.
I Wl?. | DAVenport loara, Iowa Ot* loara
j Irinnen, Iowa xewton. Iowa Lawi
Kan. and Baat Si Lou?
Tc Honor l*dlow ?e*d
Indiana; lia. Ind Jan. ?-The United
Min? Worker? today adopta*! a raaslutior
that a moi umei : be ?reeled at Uaiic?
Colo., In memori of the ?omw ?nd chil- .
dren killed In the riot? there The ree- '
ommencation that th? convention ge o? !
reoord agaainat local ?triktsa stiline as '
a It? reaort and approved by the proper!
officials wa? adopted
Bebels Occupy Kwehi Watinf
Mukden Jan ? Dispatch??? reos'va?
here thl? afternoon state that Mongolian
| lnaurgant? have ace.? .sec ? weh, Wattn?;
tn Ih? province of Mian?,
$160,000 in Umber Destroyed
North Ttjoowaoda. h* J.. Ja? ?.-Uim- i
bar mataaA at Ml.oac le th? yai-S? af JLJ
1- ????t A Cm arsa aaaUtr** by ?\?
??rtj- t?*?*. (
On that ocrm*icm It Ii romortea. ?mt
retan* lmtimog ASA not attempt to con
ceal the dlmpprMntnvnt of tb? Amerl
?rata govenuMBt ??>?? tb* repeated
failure? oT the German gwvern
mtol to give lattata CUon an?*) avor
th? iiiiaetaiil effort on the part at
the Berlin foreign oAoa to avoid an oc
knowl.-dreni.ent tlmt the attack on th?
?Uiattanla waa tUearal La Um *>'<aa ot In
trrrationai law.
Reminding the AmfcaaBedor It Is otat
ed. that the tnlted Stala? had evorr
tate-atte? of beading Oormaay to an a?
?m-anting for th* ?eatr-uoUow ot tbe Amer
ican live? lost la the trag-fcy, BecreUt-y
l.?.n*tng expreaoed th? ttmr that any
further effort on the part of German y
lo evade tbe ?Jemand? would make It
difficult for Ulta country to rimtlaue th?
friendly relation? now exlattna.
Dea*at?ar ??-?I?? Bi-*ietfd.
While It la aot undaratood that meo
retary Lan.mt fixed any time limit. It
la known to be a fact that the aiata
Ilepartment expecta a d?finit? answer on?
way or another before th?- end of next
-ah**?**.
?
Should tbe raply be unfavnrahU oi
evaalve thor? la reaaon to belle????? that
Secretary lm.nmng arili btitii aa ead to
tbe * confidential cxnvearaation?" wtth th?
Ambaaaador, by means of whl?-? h* waa
l?Bd to believe a aettlement ebu'd tie mor?
quickly arri?*****] at. and. In a form?'
note to Berlin "?*> for an lmm***dlat* and
final reapontse. A? In the ?a?* of th?
conti-oveiwy with Au?trla over tbe ?Ink
ing of the Ancona. It ta aaatim-sd thai
?uch a demand would be baaed or? th?
concern of the l'ntted Fltatt**a f-ae a non*
linaanoa of friendly reiaUon?
in highest Slat? Department quart-erf
It wa? admitted laat nicht that the G tilted
Slat??-? government haa reached a definii?
?aeMon u to the covra? It will follow
% the reply from Berlin la a rwfuaa] u
?-amply Beyond thl? roaponalbl? of
ficiala refused to go by way ot affirm*
?w? comment
lt waa ?dmitted. however, that tin
l'ntted State? ha? no inrentton of barking
down on lu demand? for a aottltmaut,
? nd tbat little elm remained Id tbe aaaal
af ? retnaa- ?on tbe ?part of Germany but
a more or kam definite threat to break
off ?tlpiomatlc relaltt.na
Thr situation la believed generally ta
official and diplomatic drei?? to faa*******
been In th? mind of PrmMVent Wllooa.
? hau tn the ooarae of hta additata la
New York on Thuroday night befor? th?
Ral.*?.' ?-a:???? A????.??.,. I. ...
warning that tt waa )mf nmlkli for him
to predict what the lnlernauona. reiaUon?
at the l'ntted States would he In tht Mae
future
County Court Libra-niE Sailed
aj-htt? Plain? ? 1 a *?*?-)? a-r-? B.
Koete- county csoart Macarla a. of Weat?
cheat rr ?bounty, waa killed today omt\
tmmt other ai? were Injure? erben ?a
automi tut tb?? war? lit.? ?.?. ??.? hit
by ? m? tor truc-h
To Cstaad Womn'i Sntrmgf.
Ottawa. Jaa SS--A? a remmit < ' tb?
?lag of th? wotau ?ultra?* bii in
nttobe. a b*I? *??-,.. t?* imro?jut"???i* tn
M. It ?i-tinior. parllajuant r*"ri'?? women
**%e rigbt u vote for tHKiwi of the
^ro-aiada, ?*g^a.a tura*
