WEATHER
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average copper price
week ending Jan. 12
23.49.
&l Hp
VNOZ.BV -XIN-u"-
Arizona-Fair
MTM3ER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18. NO. 210.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, JANUARY 29, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
4 6
T AH B
mi
ILL FORBID:
ARMING OF !!
MERUIT I
-VESSELS !
RETALIATION ADVOCATED
United States Takes a Firm
Stand and Adopts Principle
Which May Save Hundreds
of Innocent Lives.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 2S. "If
the Allies decline to yield to
reason we must cease trading
with them," declared Senator
Walsh, of Montana in the Sen
ate, assailing Great Britain's in
terference with neutral com
merce of the United Slates.
If it is the determination for
the good of this nation to retal
iate the measures of coercion
entertained by the Allied powers
would fi lid fitting expression in
course of conduct-with which
this government has respectful
ly, forcefully and justly complained.
VITAL AREAS
OF COUNTRY
LOCATED
ALL BELLIGERENT
COUNTRIES INFORMED
Germany and Austria A!erady
in Agreement; England and
Other Allies Expected to
Fall in Line Readily.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 28. The sur-J
post ion that all belligerent countries i
subscribe toa declaration of principles- iti hi t ewr
governing attacks on merchant veS-!Co,0nel Haan Member Of War
sels and forbidding arming of such
vessels will be made by the United
States in an effort to establish in in
ternational law a policy disposing or
many vexatious problems arising from
development of submarine warfare.
Identical notes have gone forward j
asking various countries to say spe-
cifically whether they are willing to Could Lie Outside of I
join such an agreement. , n . vi 1 i I
uosion narDor ana i ear ine
Department Board Which
Has Investigated Defense
Before Senate Committee.
DESCRIBESTHE NEED
OF AMERICAN ARMY
U. S. CONSUL AND WIFE RESCUE THOUSANDS OF ARMENIANS
!-
WILL DEMAND INCREASES.
I
INDIANAPOLIS, Jan. 28.
The United Mine Workers of
America in Convention decided
I virtually, by a unanimous vote.
-! to ask bituminous coal opera-
i toes for a ten per cent, increase
; in wages for basin work, a ten
' per oent advance in all dead
work, and yardage; and twenty
' percent increase to all men paid
by the day. In addition the con-
vention ratified the demands by
; the anthracite workers of Penn
'(t sylvania, last September, for a
n , twenty per cent increase and the
j complete recognithm of the. un- -
ion.
RESTRICTIVE
50 ARE DEAD
IN SAIE60
i ITER LINE
i BREAK
i
j, Mr. and Mrs. Jesse B. Jackson in parlor of U. S. consulate at Aleppo, Syria.
f Armenians say that it was solely owing to the energetic action of U. S. Consul Jesse B. Jackson at Aleppo,
:Ejrria, who adopted a strong attitude toward the Turkish military authorities, that .thousands of Armenian
'lives in Aleppo and in the surrounding regions were saved.
LEGISLATION
CRITICISED
TRAMPS ROUNDED UP.
i
City to Pieces is One of Offi
cer's Statements. "
j WASHINGTON, Jan. 28. Why aj
The declaration of principles pro
vide: non-combatants may expect pro
tection under rules of international
law, i principles of humanity when
traveling merchant ships are involved
ft vnrnfnp' must ho fivpn hforp :
merchantmen are attacked: any bei- ,orce ol P-. .
ligerent which has owned merchant tect the "vital areas" or the United j
ships must obey warnings to stop; States against a strong enemy was de- "
merchantman snail De sunk except t.,jIed t0 tne Senate Mi,itary Commit-!
trn.hv I.ieut-Tnlnnel W O II nun a '
r. n Ti frt u tT until iiascantrftnra ir -
crew are placed in safety. Merchant-
Between 35 ana 40 tramps, or
men without visible means of
support, were rounded up last
evening and this morning by the
city and county officers of the
Warren district. They were in
carcerated In local jails and'
wilLbe given a hearing this mor
ning. It is thought this method
will rid the locality of a very
undersirable element.
Haan.' a
member of the War Department board
men shall not be permited to mount which has spent seven years on de-
,lns- 'fense plans.
Favorable responses from belliger-, , . , . . j. v . .
. ., . , ... ' The board visited an studied, minute
ents will be looked on as clinching , i
principles of submarine warfare for ly. every part of the coast line. It re
which the United States contended ported in 1913 but its findings were
through negotiations with Germany hed confidential by the department.
and Austria, at the same time dispos-' . . , ,
. , . . , .. .To protect the various areas from Port
ing of troublesome questions accentu- v
ated by the arrival in New York of land- Maine, to Norfolk, Vo., Haan said
three armed Italian merchant vessels., the board had concluded a total of
Germany and Austria already have 3S0.000 mobile troops were necessary,
agreed in effect to proposals regard- exclusive of coast artillery supports
ing attacks on commercial ships, and battery personnel.
Great Britain and her allies also are The needs of the Pacific Coast he
understood to be in accord with Ame- gave as in three divisions. The Puget
rican view point on the subject. Offi- Sound region should have one part, the
cials pointed out that, should any 'mouth of the Columbia another, three
belligerents fail to agree to the pro- around San Francfsco, one near Los
posals, the United States will have no
difficulty in enforcing her principles
so far as they have concerned ves
sels entering American ports. The
note voices warning that this govern
ment is considering adoption of a
policy that all armed merchantmen to
enter America nports in the future
will be considered war vessels subject
Angeles and six reserve divisions.
Ships could lie outside of Boston and
destroy the navy yard, the state bouse
the Fore River Works and the business
district, was one of bis startling state
ments. Both coasts need protection, accord
ing to the statements of members. It
takes a year to make a soldier. The
SEE BATTLE
WAGED
GOVERNOR OPPOSES
CONTINENTAL ARMY
Sim -
&k
mm:
BANK LOOTERS CAUGHT
CHICAGO, Jan. 28. Four metr
who were arrested in a West
side apartment house and an
other who was taken into cus
tody yesterday were identified
the men who robbed the Wash
ington Park National Bank yes
terday of $15,000. The men
were arrested on a tip from a
woman who led the raid in the
apartment building.. The recov
ery of more than $7,000 of the
stolen money was made from a
pasteboard boj..
American Shipping Laws, the
Tariff, Railroad Legislation
and "Big Business" Statutes
Are Taken to Task. .
j VANDERLIP PLEADS
.j i FOR FUTURE TRADE
National Foreign Trade Con
vention Hears Some of the
Biggest Personages in the
Business World.
j NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 28. Criticism
of American shipping laws, theitariff,
: laws relating to railroads and "big
Two Dams Give Way; Vast
Stretch of Country Devasta
ted; Floods, Snow and Cold
Cause Intense Suffering.
PHOENIX RAILROAD
COMMUNICATION CUT
Washington, Idaho and Mon
tana Report Disaster and
Death; Governor Johnson
of California Marooned.
SAN DIEGO, Jan. 28 Tho lat
est estimate indicated that the
death list would each fifty.
Twenty-five Japanese were drown
ed, it is reported. An area of fif
teen miles wide and two mile
long is devastated.. The property
loss may amount to at least a
million.. The devastated district
is isolated by the breaking of the
dam and hundreds of families are
suffering. Bridges are out. Sev
eral, bodies were seen floating in
the floodwaters, according to lat
' est reports. The breaking of the
dam released eleven billion gal
lons of water which rushed
through the thickly populate and
narrow Otay Vallfcy.
business"
DEFENDS
French Attack With Hand
Grenades Positions of Ger
mans. Captured Several i
Days Ago. Russia Active.
Gov. Frank B. Willis.
Gov. Frank B. Willis of Ohio is
strongly opposed to President Wil
son's plan for a "Continental Army."
The governor believes that the
proper course is to strengthen the
National Guard.
LONDON, Jan. 28. There is consid
erable fighting on the various fronts
but no notable changes in the positions
of the combatants is recorded in the
region of Neuville Stvaast. The
French attacked with hand grenades
the positions taken by the Germans.
Berlin reports the French were re
pulsed with heavy losses.
Alt otAnff tho lino frnm Ripfl tn Ftn-
kowina there are artillery bombard- James Bradley, who Left Bis
ments with occasional infantry at-1
m in
ninnrr
oi Dure If!
ATTEMPT T
SUICIDE
WILSON AND
HIS SPEECH
Minority Leader Takes Demo
cratic Representative from
Texas to Task for Censure
of the President
and the proposal for a gov-
j ernment owned merchant fleet was
i voiced here at the. third 'National
! Foreign Trade convention. Tlie speak-
era included Fairfax HarrUon, presl-.
. dent of the Southern Railway and
i Frank A. ' Vanderlip, president of the
; National City Bank of New York, Jos- j
epn uavies, cuairman oi tne t eae-
ral Trade commission.
Vanderlip , declared the United
States did not need government aid
to succeed in world trade so much as
relief from governmental handicaps.
He characteried some laws goern
ing shipping and commercial relations
as "foolish legislation, uneconomical
an unnecessarily restrictive."
A plea for the modification of the
regulations affecting railroads so as
J to permit them to make lower rates
for export than for domestic traffic
was made by Harrison.
"Whethef the relations between the
American railroads and foreign trade
after the war will be substantially dif
ferent from what it was before and
WASHINGTON. Jan. 28., Republi
can Leader Mann came to the defense
of President Wilson in the House,
when Representative Dies, of Texas
a leader of the anti-preparedness Dem- j during the war depends on the sub
ocrats, attacked the President's New j stantial progress in the development
York speech I ' American policy with respect to ex-
Mann rebuked Dies for his remarks i Prt trade Sally." he said.
i SAN DIEGO, Jan. 28. Four
teen were killed and a wide
stretch of country devasted late
today when two dams of the San
Diego Water System broke in
Otay Valley. The south part pf
the city is under strain by the
flood waters caused by the storm
which has been raging in the vici
nity for several days. The weath
er tonight is clearing. Another
dam, on which there is a severs
strain, is feared for.
before the President had completted
his tour. He declared Wilson's only j
LABOR CONFERENCE CLOSES
interment. , j situated further inland, at least two
in ine note ir.e l nnea states cans nunarea mues rrom canaaa or iwex-
attention to the fact of her changed
policy toward mounting guns on mer
chantmen since submarine began to
plp.y such a large part in the naval
warfare. "From the merely humani
tarian standpoint," said one official,
"such an' order might be some ar
rangement to save Innocent lives."
to established regulations governing . arsenals and supply depots should beitafck" y Russians. Germans and Aus- j
ro-Hungarlans. retroeraa reports sue 1
cessful Russian surprise attacks. J
The Italians reoccupied the heights j
west of Gorizia from which thpy fore-,
ed to retire recently. Tliey nut down j
with heavy casualties, the strong at-1
tempt by the Anstrians to advance in-j
the upper Tsonzo region. In the Can-1
bee Last Week, DrinksAcid, ' defPnse for rhanp"!K h'" T!- ' i BR'STOU Jan. 28.-The British lab- c
After Wiring Friends cf ZT or conference closed today with anoth- Fr,
,. . . was rignt. ! or victory for the patriotic element ov- .
His Intention.
ico. The Philippines are essential to
antional defense, the danger points
from foreign expeditions are the
north Atlantic cities, San Francisco
and Puget Sound.
The United States could whip the
enemy at the waters edge," declared ; casus the Russians claim further sue-.
Major Andrew Moses, "If the foreign j cessps and the caotttre of prisoners i
-ttiin ine possiD.my oi danger mat r tne ant.war faction. Vote on a mo-'
prevails." Mann declared, "we mu.-U
SAN FRANCISCO. Jan. 28. Suffer
ing and danger from flood), snow and
Intense cold in the Rock Mountain
region accompanied the storm which
struck the Pacific Coast, yesterday,
moving east. Havre reported fifty
four below zero and many other
towns with nearly as low temperature
In eastern Washington and Idaho suf
fering with Montana, while towns in
the Coeur D'Alene region were Isolat
ed by snow slides.
At Butte a street car slipped on Icy
tracks and twelve were Injured.
Near Dallas. .Washington, a freight
train struck a work train Ira blind
ing snowstorm and six were killed.
Southwestern Colorado Is snowed in
with fifteen feet in Dlrango streets.
Wire connection with the Silverton
i mines is cut off. Railroad communi
cation w'th Phoenix was stopped when
Santa Fe bridge over the Agua
Fria River went out. Other sections
i in the west report similar conditions.
Whatever attitude the bellieerents Power believes we can. and the chance , and UrRe sppiies.
' - mi i u 1 '
adopt, it Is stated that the United
States expects to stand by the prin
ciples thus enunciated as sound lnter
rationa( law.
of war are less. ,' There should be a
million men prepared las' a defending
force for the protection, of our coasts
against invasion and prepared against
possible loss of the control of the
seas which is likely owing to being
outnumbered in vessels by Great Britain.
With the combination of two pow
j CALLED TO COLORS
I LONDON. Jan. 2S. Proclamations j
I were posted throughout the country!
Icalling to the colors eieht more groups !
I of men who attested for military ser- j
jvice under Earl Derby's recruiting j
plan. Men of aees between twenty I
COFFEY WINS EASILY.
SYRACUSE, Jan. 28. Jim Coffey, of
Now Vnrk knnrkpri nut 1a TlrtHfo nt
Montana, in the fifth roun dof a ten I erful governments, we wo.rid not be:seven and thirty-five were summoned
round exhibition. Bodie weighed 215; able to hold the sea thirty days," lie,10 Jin rPDriiary J.
pounds. Coffey 208. i said. '
EL PASO, Jan. 28. After filing
a message to friends in Bisbee,
from which city he had just come,
James Bradley walked from West
ern Union Telegraphic office,
twallowed a quantity of acetic ac
id and fell to the sidewalk in ago
ny of pain. He was hurried to the
po'ice station where he was given
emergency treatment and sent to
the County Hospital. He also filed
a mesrage to Buffalo, New York,
at the same time but no record of
the messages were taken at the
police station. Bradley will prob
ably recover.
i Governor Juhnson. or ralilornia.
ition approving past actions of the lab-! v, K ,...., -,i t.
.meet the situation, r.se to the respon- ;or mmbm ot the government showed ; near Corona wlth ni, wifA and sec.
Unities and put the nation in a posl- L IarKe niapori,y in faTOr. A second Ury. He w n(Mnl to reat.n
, t.on where it can protect itself against ! motion declaring the best interests of AnKel toniKnt. Searrh wa9 ron.
any foreign foe. He admitted he had , ,he nation demanded that they remain tinuej n(.ar nere for ,he bodies or
changed his mind since a year ago. , ln office was adopted by a big majority j ef);ht 1CI1 be,ioV-ed lost when th
but declared be was not ashamed and !A Kneral resolution condemning the!,,,, sch0oner Aberdeen and a garb-
-n.u .,r u.u u ... Brr-l "" . nat,onal policy ws rejected. This al-1 afte carrier broke up outside the hat
ing army, but advocated the means to , so condemned secret alliances regulat-: bor last night.
I
Calles Reported Ousted as Governor of
Sonora; Gen. Talamante Gets Job
Statement from Torreon Says Carranza Chieftain in North
western Mexico Has Been Superseded. Native Only
Can Hold Position, Is Calles' Comment
AUSTRIA ADDRESSED.
EL PASO, Jan. 2S. A statement from Torreon that General Talaman
te had left for Sonora to become governor of that state surprised Mexi
can consular officers on the border.
General P. Elias Calles, the present governor of the state, is quoted as
declaring Talamante could not have been appointed because Carranza
had declared the governors should be natives of the state and that mili
tary governors in power when the Villa regime collapsed would hold of
fice until the elections unless withdrawn for cause. Calles declared h
believed there was no cause for his removal as nD charges had been
filed against him. Inquiries at. Constitutionalist offices failed to result
in any explanation.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 28. The Unit-,
ed States has addressed another In-"
Gry to Austria asking if any sub
ma.Hne commanders have knowledge I
of the destruction of the British liner
Persia. The statement that none bad
information reported to have been ,
handed to Ambessador Penfield, has '
never been received here. State De
i Bradley left Bisbee several days ago
after quitting his job a the Shuttuck
blacksmith shop. He told friends he
wps going east. They are of the opin
ion he attempted suicide while intoxi-icated.
In regard to the alleged telegram it
it; said that, in all probability, the
wire was never sent, as it proonoiy
protect the nation's interests.
I '
GERMANS CHARGE CRUELTIES.
Ing the balance of power in Europe
land demanded that Parliament be giv-
FLOODS IN SOUTH
LITTLE ROCK. Jan. 28. One
was
LONDON, Jan. 28. Foreign Office
made public a note from the German
Foreign Office transmitted through
James W. Gerard, American ambas
sador, relating to alleged cuelties on
the part of French and English troops
toward German prisoners,
en control of the nation's foreign poll-'killed in ,a esction south of the Arkan
cy. jsas River, sixty miles wide bordering
- 'the Mississippi threatened by floods-
BEFORE THE HOUSE
in Arkansas, while rivers, which have
rontainea nonsense ami as m.-u .- ordt.rtd 8 severely wounded German
'p''- officer placed on a rampart of a
j pren(,n trem-h Run under fire with
JEWISH RELIEF DAY ! the object of having him killed by!
NEW YORK. Jan. 28. Predictions German fire. Another similar charge
partment officials consider that they nri n"dp th.it receipts for the Jewish is made again.n the French. It U
have virtually exhausted every other relief day throughout the nation yester i claimed a birtish soldier tied an offi
source of information in an effort to day will approximate three million, cer to a tree and opened fire when he
establish what caused the linking of N attempt is made to estimate the j waived a handkerchief toward the
the Persia with loss of two American toal for New York, but they are . German lines. "Evidence of a German
lives. Assertions by survivors that known to h;ive exceeded a quarter of military inquiry of these Incidents,"
the ship was torpedoed by a hostile n-illion in addition to a million pledg says the note, "has given proof of
submarine, presumably Austrian, are fl at a mass meetine. Telegrams all ( their occuracy." The British deuial
not proved. The State Department is parts of the country announced gener-, takes the form of a reply from Feld
endeavoring to get authoritative facts ou donations to nid sufferers in the Marshal French, which is supported
for basis of communication. . war areas of Europe. by statements of other officers.
WASHINGTON. Jan.'2S. , Conclu- j no outlet already are swollen intc the
sions of the ariny general' staff were Mississippi. A stage twenty-nine feet
read to the House Military committee expected in Pine Bluff for three or four
are said to demand a million and a I days, inundating a thousand acres of
The Brit-! half regulars and half that number of' farming land.
ish government made unqualified de-, reserves to protect the coasts. (Continued on Page o)
nials of the charges. The note re-! . ;
r, i a W'tt ohl n n.nn rrntr Aon n,An tn
transmit the protest against "viola-1
tion of international law" by both
British and French governments.
It is charged that a French officer
D anbury Hatters9 Fund, Subscribed to
Pay Damages, Is Large Amount
' Contributions from Labor, So Far Reported, Said to Aggre
gate $350,000. This will Pay Suit and All of the Court
Costs and Save Defendants' Property.
. ..PANBURY. Jan. 28. National officers of the United Hatters of Nortn
Ai-erica estimated the contributions yesterday, for the relief of the de
fendants in the Danbury hatters rase to be at least $350,000. It might
reach close to half a million, according to word from the hatters' head
quarters In New York.
It is stated reports, received from the largest cities in the country. In
dicated the response to the appeal cf the American Federation of Lab
or for funds to meet the $250,000 daniare and costs awarded to D. E.
Loewe Company, the plaintiffs In the case, will be sufficient to protect
th defendants from losing a dollar of their personal property.
