BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB WJhhWHIWwWWBWPBBjW'HWIw wy iiHBf'BWWfc'EdwT't gBu'-ojBftwfrijyiiBpHB
" BMlfiailu x VBBB
I H
B . . . j . 0 . .,. BBBJ
TO KEEP IN TOUCH WITH CACHE jjF I , im .J.A2fc 9t9 11? 2L''A THE PROOF OF THE VAUJk OF," jffH
VALLEY PROGRESS, SUBSCRIBE 14 4 S ll n'if if . SBfB d"l fr Ml4 JW ADVERTISING IN THE LOGAN.RE. , BIB
FOR THE LOGAN REPUBLICAN. If .IIT Z y I I I I'l'l I I ' Bl 9 KT.1 I I I I I I II 5 I I I PUBLICAN LIES IN THE 8UB8TAN- iBM
B $3.00 PER YEAR BY MAIL; $3.50 T I W " H W W9 T "''V " TIAL RETUR.N8 WHICH COME TO BIB
B PER YEAR BY CARRIER. Jf J W ITS ADVERTISERS. BIB
BB ' ' M .I I .11. I I I III, l.M , . M III I..I I MM II .. .Ill- I r .1 II I. , - .. jBBBBBJ
B EIGHT PAGES LOGAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH SATURDAY JANUARY 29 1916 FOURTEENTH YEARf H
I SPLENDID RECORD MADE
I BY UTAH IDAHO HOSPITAL
I DURING THE PAST YEAR
B Tho annual mooting of tho stock-
B holders of the Utah-Idaho hospital
B was held on Tuesday with a good
B representation of the stockholders
B present. Tho main feature of tho
B mettlng was tho reading ot tho an-
B nual report by President Anthon An-
B derson which goes Into detail on the
B work accomplished by tho hospital
B during Its short life. A statement hy
B president Andorson credits tho rec-
B ord mado by tho Institution as largo-
B iy the'offorts of tho medical director
B Dr. D. C Budge and Supt. Sarah
B BaBtow and her associates.
fl Tho report is as follows:
B Due to the lack of funds wo were
B unablo to build a suitable hospital
B building In 1908, after strenuous f-
B forts on our Part but tho stockhold-
B crs and directors of tho old Utah-Ida-
B ho hospital corporation seeing the in-
B creased necessity for such an lnstl-
B tutlon renewed tholr efforts, and aft-
B cr enough money had been raised by
B public subscribers to Insure the com-
B plctlon of tho building, our present
B organization was effected, April 27,
B inu. Mnnv of our citizens wero not
B at that tlmo educated as to its lm-
B portanco who are now proud to bo
B identified with it. Tho ground wan
B broken In May, 1914, upon which
B stands this magnificent structure
B which was completed and dedicated
B the third day of Docember, 1914,
B since that time four hundred and fif-
B teen patients have been cared for
B therein with amazing success. There
B has been two hundred and seventy-
B five patients operated on with only
H one 'death, and one hundred and fifty
BJ nine medical cases treated with ton
S deaths, a total mortality of two and
Bj seven tenths per cent, from any and
BJ all causes, a record which wo can
m well be proud of considering tho fact
BJ that only the most sovere cases ore
H sent to the hospitals. Flvo of tho
BJ eleven cases died within forty-eight
H hours after reaching tho institution,
H nnd three ot' the -five within a few
H hours atler'reachlng tho bul'dlng.
BJ It is particularly Interesting to
BJ know that those who havo been trent
H ed at tho hospital as well a8 tholr
BJ relatlvos and friends havo gono away
BJ perfectly satisfied with tho treatment
BJ nccorded them. Whllo hospitals are
BJ comparatively now In our locality,
MS yet well equlppod hospitals havo been
BJ recognized as safety first ln tho ox
Bi istenco of hospitals In other localities
BJ slnco time memorial. Duo to tho
BJ modern facilities afforded at tho Utah
BJ Idaho hospital for tho purpose of
BJ making a correct diagnosis, tho treat-
BJ ment of casos and particularly tho
BJ equlpmont for the performance of
B surgical work bas made operations
m In our .homes a thing of tho past.
BJ Time nor space will not permit mo
BJ to name all tho various kinds of op-
BJ cratlons performed hero, but In com-
BJ paring Our records with those of cas-
BJ torn Institutions it affords ono much
0 pleasure to stato that tho various
BJ Kinds of operations performed hero
BJ compare favorably with thoso of eas-
H tern hospitals. Considering tho fact
BJ that our building Is fireproof and
BJ modorrt In every detail, and that the
BJ pure air surrounding our hospital
BJ gives us a great advantago over hos-
BJ pltals of larger cities, I seo no rcas-
H on why pooplo should go olrowhoro
Bj to have' even tho most Intrlcato oper-
BB atlons performed.
BE It is further Interesting to note
BJ that people are coming from all over
BJ tho lntermountaln west for treatment
B at this Institution. Patients havo
BJ como from tho following localities in
BJ Utah: Salt.Lako City, Ogdon, Tayl-
BJ orsvllle, Pleasant Grove, Brigham
B City, Venice, Molden, Yost, Ibapah,
'J Deweyvlllo,' polllnston Beaver Dam,
M OrdervllloJ JUketown, Randolph, Oar-
Bk land, Fieldlflg, Lewjston, Covo Itlch-
BJ mond, Trenton, Smlthfiold, Newton,
BJ Clarkston, pacho Junction, Cornish,
BJ Hyde Park, Bonson ward, Mondon,
BJ Wellsville, Hjrrum. MlllviUo, Pararlso,
BJ Potersbpro, College ward, Providence
BJ and loganj-and from the following
BJ places In Idaho: Boise, Ashton, Twin
BJ Falls, Dilggs, St, Anthony, American
BJ Falls, Bure'y, IUgby, Pocatello, Sun-
BJ nydalo, Biilpt, Bridge, Bond, Ferry,
BJ CloyqladMalad, Aflmq', Arbon, Far.
BJ Is, DuacUe,,'nexburB', Lund, Carey,
BJ Downey,' Swan Lake, Oxford, Dayton,
Weston, ,CHftn, Troasureton, Prest
en, Franklin and Montpcllor and from
Oregon: Covo and Portland. From
Wyoming: Mt. Vlow and Freedom;
also patients from vnrlous localities
In Kansas, Wisconsin, Arizona, Nova
da, California, and Montana.
You Mill seo that patients coming
from far and near that tho Utah-Idaho
hospital Is widely known through
out tho lntermountaln west, nnd con
sidering the purposo for which our
patients havo como it will ho seen
that our Institution Is becoming
known particularly for Its surgical
work.
We are destined to become a medi
cal and surgical ccntor, and all that
Is lacking is for our own people to ro
allzo this fact.
Our training school for nurses Is
second to nono. Students coming
from various localities In Utah, Ida
ho, Wyoming, Canada and other sec
tions of tho 'country. Tho amount
of good theso nurses will do is bo
yond conception, and wo only appre
ciate their services when badly in
need of their efforts in relieving suf
fering humanity.
"ln compliance with tho following
resolution taken from tho by-laws re.
latlng to charity work. Resolution:
"It shall bo the duty of tho mem
bers of tho, medical staff to treat at
tho hospital tho worthy poor, as char,
ity cases, free of charge tho worthi
ness of such cases nro to bo'determ
Ine by tho bishops of tho various
wards or tho clergymen of tho varl.
ous churches, o'r other heads of some
rsccgnlzed charitable organization or
Institution, who shall nominate tho
patient for free treatmont; and such
nomination shall be concurred In or
endorsed by -some' oiHj-'oHho-raeni-bers
of tho medical staff of tho in
stitution residing in or near tho lo
cality from which such patient comes.
Wo have done eleven hundred and
twelvo dollars worth of charity work,
I submit this report after ono year's
personal supervision that you may
seo what wo havo accomplished dur
ing that time. As. to tho financjal
condition will say, that wo have met
actual expenses nnd have boen nolo
to mako n few necessary Improve
ments which is all, that could bo ex
pected of s'uch an Institution.
Respectfully submitted,
ANTHON ANDERSON,
President.
'
GASOLINE CO.
FILES ARTICLES
WITH THE CLERK
Articles of Incorporation wero nled
on Thursday with tho county clerk
by tho Logan-Idaho Oil and Gasoline
Company with a capital stock ot $25,
000. Tho company Is incorporated
for 250 shares with a par valuo of
$100 por share.
This now corporation Is taking ov
or tho Interests of tho Logan Oil &
Oasollno Company and Is organized
to do a wholesale business in 'gaso
line, keroseno and lubricating oils.
Tho principle place of business Is
In Logan, but a branch distributing
station is being built at Preston. Tho
officers and directors of tho company
aro as follows: S. H. Blair, presl
dent and manager; II. B. Hatch, vlco
prcsidont; B. G. Blair, secretary;
John Bankhead, treasurer; William
Mowcn, director; F. W. Blair, dlrec
tor and Z. W. Israclson, director.
WARNING.
Don't pay money in advance for
magazlno subscriptions, goods that
cannot bo immediately dolfvorcd, to
strangers whom you know nothing
about. Your doaler pays rent and
taxes and guarantees that your sub
scrlptlons will be projJarly placed
with tho publishers. Also, ho Is al
ways on the spot as the publishers'
agent should anything go wrong and
Farm Convention
Prpgram at U. A. C.
' Saturday and Monday
SATURDAY, JANUARY,, 29
10 To 12 A. M. Practical Courses.
Butter Mnklng Finishing, Marketing! pn3 Judging . . . Chemistry Building
Poultry Management Mnrkotlng Products .i Room 39
Veterinary Practice Unsoundness (. ,., Room 177
Potato and Grain Diseases Miscellaneous Dlsenses and Their Control.
Discussion by Lou D. Sweet Room 132
Farm Blacksmlthing and Horseshoolng How to Uso Drill Press and
Taps f Shops
Farm Carpentry Construction of Roof, (Illustrated Shops
Automobile Care and Repair Adjustments Shops
2:00 P.,M. '
Address ;'.' Professor Klwood Mead
j. University of California
Practical Management of An IrrlgatlonJSystem Mr. J. C. Wheelon
' Box Elder County
Drainage ...: ??.':......-: : Mr. D. S. Miller
Ju. S. Department of Agrlculturo
7:30 P. M. Special Meeting of Potato Growers
Address Mr. Lou D. Sweet
.4 Carbondalo, Colorado
9:00 P. M, Alumni Ball, Gymnasium
Given In honor of tho visiting farmers and housekeepers
- "i(t
MONDAY," JANUARY 31
' v
9 To 10 A. M.-r-Exhlblts
10 A. M. Chapel
Good Roads ,rvi Mr, T. Warren Allen
Representative of Office of Roads, tl.N S. Department of Agrlculturo
Road Work In Utih ..... Professor William Potorson
Utah Goods j Mr. Ri W. Eardloy
1:30 P. M. Conjoint, Chapel """""
Address !ft Governor William Spry
Presentation of Panama Pacific International Exposition Award In AgrT"
culturo to J. P. Larson, Moab T . Governor William Spry
2!30 P.M. "'
Cost of Production of Dry Farm, Crops jjr j y pnxnian
Alfalfa Seed Production ; l , Mr. Sylvester"Plerce
.&iiyri!l. . a- ""- -y fr" ''..Sanpete i County
8 P. Mi Gymnasium
Evening of Housekeepers' nnd Farmers' Vaudeville, under tho ablo direc
tion of Professor P. R. Arnold, nnd Miss Mary Johnson.
" ' I'JWJ
you havo a complaint to mako.
Do business at homo with us. We
havo a record of ten years of' fair
dealing with tho people of Logan.
THE OAK SUBSCRIPTION AGENCY
tlon or your money back. Adv.
t
Poet's Declaration of Rights.
We have each a right to tour lives.
No ono has tho Tight to mora or less
than that. John Gould Fletcher In
Poetry. '"
' '-, 4 ' V i(
nn indonnito period.
Tho O. S. L. wll hnvo trains thru
today. J. R. Morton ngont for this
company says that In twonty-ono
enrs tho O. S, L. pooplo has not
had tho cxperlcnco It Is now going
through. Sovernl hundred men wero
busy all day yestordny Bhovellng
snow and fighting tho drifts near Co!
llnston. The farmers aro rojolclng, saying
that this storm Is tho best thing
that could havo happened for tho
dry farm crops.
AN INTEREST-
MOVELTY
A unlquo little advertising schema
has just hocn placed on tho writing
desk In Iho rest corner of tho Mur
dook Confectionery parlor. A small
r cJqcHJiJillclic to tlwulnketand and
olcctrio light stand makes this cus
tomers' corner qulto nn nttractlvo
and popular placo among tho patrons
of tho candy store.
r I ,
BBBBk. r BBBBBBBBBBJBcmBBBBB tA BBBBBBVjfllBBVBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBKf
.BBBBBjkBIBiBBBBBBaBBBBBjAs BBbBBBBB BbVJBBBBBBBEBBBBBBkh
IbBBBBHB'ZCBBBBBBBkBBBBBBb BBBBBBiVBBBBBHIBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBKff
'flBBBjiBjiiBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBjBBBBBBBBBBKBB;1
View of some of Richmond's Pure Bred Holsteins as seen at annual show one year ago
A Bigger and Better
- "Black andy White" Day
At Richmond, March 17th
Members of tho Holsteln Breeders
association ot Richmond who aro at
tending tho Round-up, say that pre
parations are bolng made to mako
March 17th, St. Patrick's Day at
Richmond, a day long to be remem
bered. Persons throughout tho valloy
who attended tho big Whlto and
Black show last year wore agreeably
surprised at tho size and quality ot
the show which ono town is able to
give.
Tho show thls year promlsoH to bo
larger and better than ever fiom tho
fact that a new feature for this sec
tion of the country will be introduc
ed. A public auction salo Is to he
conducted. Mombers of the associa
tion havo pledged 50 head of pure
bred and high grade iHolsteln cattle
which will go to highest bidders.
Theso sales aro something now for
our section but they are vory popular
and common In the east. Every sec
tion that Is noted for nny particular
ttock has Its public auction salo at
least onco a year.
Tbo promoters feci confident at
thejsUccess of tho salo.
FIRST; Becauso ot tho great de
mand 5t tho present tlmo for this
particular typo of dairy cattlo. A
largo California concern recently
purchased 21G head of holsteln cows,
calves and bulls for $125,000, paying
a llttlo over $575.00 per bead.
SECOND:1 Becauso of tho quality
of itho stock they aro offering.
Strains from tho very best blood In
tho breed can bo found among tho
Richmond association herds.
Wo commend tho spirit ot tho
mombers ot the Richmond Holsteln
GREAT SNOW
STORM RECORDED
IN THJSJALLEY
Not In twenty years has this sec
tion of tho country experienced such
n heavy biiow storm as has fallon
tho past two days. Great heaps of
snow nro piled on tho streets which
havo been shoveled from tho sldo
walks, and last ovenlng when this nr
tlclo was written, It was still snow
ing. Thoro has been no trains from
Salt Lako slnco Thursday afternoon,
tho Thursday ovenlng trnln being
tied up In n snow drift near Collins
ton, on which wero a number ot
Logan citizens who hnd not arrived
homo last evening. Among them
wero Cashier II. B .Crockett, Attor
ney J. C. Walters and George Cat
don. Tho O. S. L. will havo trains thru
continued to run cars from Preston
to Wellsillo, but tho blockndo on
tho divide looks ns It It will last for
Breeders association to tho cattlomcn
of tho valley and In Utah. Thoro Is
perhaps no section of tho stnto whero
tho dairymen havo gono Into this
question as thoroughly ns tho Rich
mond breeders havo and mot with
as satisfactory results. Tho first
holstoln purebred cattlo wero
brought to Richmond ten years ago
and today thero are upwards of a
thousand head ot theso catt'o In tho
northern part of Cache Valley and
becauso ot the fact that tho dalrymon
havo been specializing and porslstant
ly advertising thoir quality grade of
cattlo, thoy bring on tho market from
ten to fifteen dollars a head above
what other dairymen get for thoir
markotablo cows.
Let us all get behind Richmond and
assist In making St, Patrick's Day,
March 17, a day long to be romem
berod by tho farmers and cattlomon
of tho valley. Thero is suro to como
good from this undertaking. It Is'
suro to stimulate other sections ot
tho valley to begin to speclalizo In
certain lino of livestock, perhaps In
horses, hogR, sheop, as thero Is, no
doubt that the coming farmer is the'
ono who finds In his flocks and herds
tho pure bred nnd high grade stock.
Making Complete Change, ,
Ono Bure way to change a knacker;
to a booster Is to lead tho cpnvnrsa-,
tlon around so as to got him "to talks
Ing about Vlmsclt, j
MID WINTER
GLiyCWAS
BIG SUCCESS i
p" BBBBB
The dentists of Logan City hold a BH
most successful clinic Wednesday at- jBH
ternoon and evening at tho Commrr- I BBl
clal Club rooms. Tho program was BB
cnrrlcd out as published and thero i 'jBBJ
was a largo attondanco of dentists ,' BH
from tho alloy Including tho don BjH
tlsts from Richmond, Lcwloton BjH
and, Preston. Following, tho ben- BBl
quot nt tho Hotol Logan Dr. J. P. BBJ
Chrlstcnscti of Salt Lako City, gavo BBJ
a very able paper. BB
The dcntUts decided at this clinic BBJ
to start an oral hygleno educational BB
movement In tho public schools. Tho ! BB
samo to bo carried on by loctures by BjB
soino of tho most prominent dentists BH
of tho Logan society and by discuss- ; Bfl
Ion through tho columns of the Lo j BH
gan press. It was decided to start j BH
an educational movomont whereby " , jBH
the public gonernliy will fe'oi the Bfl
necessity of taking proper caro of :,. BBJ
their teeth. This being very cssontlal j
from tho fact that after tho teeth ! BBJ
aro given proper caro thoro Is less j 1 fll
chnnco for dlscaso than otherwise. t " BB
Tho dentlstB discussed tho ndvls- t
nblllty ot having tho board of cdu- f Bfl
cation At up a room whoroby chlldron 1 BB
who nro poor and unablo to pay for Bfl
tho proper caro of their teeth, may 1 BH
bo ablo, undor tho direction of tho BB
board to receive froo services along J flH
this lino. Tho local dentists wero j BBJ
so olatod ovor tho success of tholr BJ
clinic that they voted to ' mako It BH
an annual affair outside of tho reg- l (BJ
ula,- mcotlngs an formerly held hy j -'-BBJ
tho society. J BJ
BOYS KILLED i 1
INSNOWSUDE M
AT HYDE PARK
j 'H
Two young mon, Marvin Dalnes M v
and Applo Woolf, both of Hydo Park ill J
woro killed In a snowslldo about (i )
thrco miles cast of Hyde Pnrk yes I jf ' '-BB
terdny. The bodies wero recovered I jj v
by Joseph Dalnos, father of tho I II iBBBJ
Dalnes boy, and wero brought to 1 I fiB
Hydo Pnrk last evening. 1 a' MB
PYGMALION AT IB
NIBLEY HALL
Mrs Campbell's Great Success, by 'jj BBJ
U. A. C. Dramatic Club Monday x 1
and Wednesday Nights '- HBJ
This year tho play that will bo pro- b fcBB
Bentcd by tho U. A. C. Dramatlo Mf IBH
Club under tho direction ot Mils Sar j W- H
ah Huntsman, will bo Georgo Bern- fjjV ejBB
ard Shaw's Pygmalion, ono of tho i I ll BH
grcnt English dramatists newest -and H . BH
most Interesting plays. It has hoon t, ( IBJ
played by Mrs. Patrick Campbell !jj ',
and her excellent company In a great a JBJ
many of tho larger cities ot the. Unit- 5j fBB
cd States, and has mot wit) unquall- ?J. iBl
lied success, iaiI Bfl
Tho cast was selected and coachod BJ
by Miss Sarah Huntsman, ot tho ex- jj ' BB
presslon department of tho U, A. C. jj BJ
Mlsa Huntsman's ability ns n couch ;"jj'-, "!
Is well known. TUIb year sho has 'jl , "Bfl
spent a great deal oft lmo polishing 'Jj.lj flH
spent a great deal of time polishing 1. 1 BJ
Ing tholr work Into professional Mj'F'i'"!H
form. i- '"(! BB
Miss Lcora Thatcher wll bo seen j l'.BB
In tho lending role. Miss Thatcher IJNBB
has had considerable oxporienco on vjjj pBB
tho stago in parts which required !lj KBB
careful acting, but nover boforo ban IIMjBB
sho attempted anything as hard as jfJJ BB
tho rolo of' Eliza tho flower girl. PJHlBfl
Eliza Is so doltclously low, in tho bo- A flfl
ginning and so superb In tho end, ! ' SB
that al of Miss Thatcher's hlstrlonio j'llflB
powers will bo taxed to tho uttermost. i,- iflB
In tho rehearsals tho young lady has SflT
'dono so splendidly that it scorns' Prob. W jK
ablo that when tho audience is bo jjjj i!B
tore her sho may bo able to glyo an i v
interpretation of tho character- that (Bj
will no doubt surprise and ploaso all ' jBt?
who hear and see her, ,t i '.miB
Miss Thatcher will bo supportodihy ?3'B
Mr. Mathlson, as tho blun bluaterlng Hi jB
Protegor Hlgglns; yrgjj.
(Continued c Paci'-BBK)'- t B
" ' Win B
jgMBBBBBBB
. jBBBBBBBBBBB
