ItobHc
fetter
j J'J J ! J J J
THE LEDGER Is an mUcrtlsIng 4
! medium (lint bring results. Onr 'I'
I rales nro conMslcnt ttIIIi clrcn. !
! Inllon. Honks open lo Insertion.
J. .J.
J ! ! ! ! t ! ! !
THEVKATHER.
I" .
' Hnln Saturday and probably J
I .Sandfly.
l j j j j j j j
fKKKZV HKrVBLWAXtW.
PA it r rvnLia lkdokr-u.
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY. SATURDAY, JANUARY 29, 1010.
M COPY ONE CENT.
! j J j ff f' 4 ! ! 1
' , If
il
If.
i
.VOTES (II LUSH.
li I oulr Imd n Job, lip mild,
.ll will lie well for sonney;
lie got (lie Joli, Ii ii t It incniit work,
So lie quit nml (mil no money.
If I only luid a joli, lie snld,
Rcgnn anew a-orrylnjf ;
He got next, so did the Iiohh,
When lie caught sonney luallntr.
If I only Imd a Joli, lie nalil,
A job nlll end my sorrow;
He'll llnd a Joli nnd quit again,
And hunt anew lorn or row.
J. I. I...
YOUNGNEGROES
Charged With Stealing Tobacco From
Freight Car On American
Company's Siding.
Friday morning Chief of Police
James Mackcy, Officer Dudley Flzcr
and Special C. & O. Detective Thomas
Stewart that on Thursday night some
one had broken a seal on a C. & O.
fi eight car loaded with tobacco on tlio
American Tobacco Company's siding
In the Hast End nnd taken a portion of
a hogshead of the weed. After nn In
vestigation the olllcers arrested Henry
Slcwart and Krnest Morton, both col
ori'd, on the charge.
In tho course of the examination
that followed tho men admitted steal
ing the tobacco and said they Intend
ed to sell It over the local breaks.
They will be taken before Federal
Judge A. M. J. Cochran, as breaking
a seal on n freight car is in the Jur
isdiction of tho Federal court.
CONDITIO SEHIOUS.
The condition of John Itusscll
Gnntlcy, the oldest son of Councilman
and Mrs. Patrick Gautley of East
Third street, who Is suffering with
heart trouble. Is not improving. His
condition Is serious.
MAIL OltDKItS I'UOMl'TLY FILLED.
For all grades of whiskies and
liquors. Our prices are right. Order
today. Poyntz Bros., Covington, Ky.
' Aunt Mary Tiumbo, 100 years old,
an old colored woman of Flcmings
burg, died Thursday night at her home
here from the infirmities of age. She
was born on September !2f, 1815.
1915 OUR BANNER YEAR 1915
We wish to thank our many friends and customers for their liberal patronage for this,
our fourth year In business, which has proven to be considerable beyond our anticipation, for
which we are very thankful.
We are now looking forward to a greatly increased business the coming year and we
have installed the latest and most improved equipment for handling your orders, which guar
antees high grade mill work and satisfaction to all, at the best possible prices.
. We are leaders in our line.
TUT UlCnU IIIMDCD nHMDAMV CORNER LIMESTONE AND SECOND
inc mHouii LumuLii uumiHiii
a. a. Mclaughlin.
I HOBBIES
m
A prominent physician tells us that "hobbies" are healthy
things for us to have, and we feel that we must be blessed with
II il l.l I .1-1.-1.1
unusunny goon ucniiu, as we
and it's
f HARNESS!
Years ago, when leather sold for nineteen cents a pound,
H our boast was that we made the best harness that could be
J made of good leather, good thread and good workmanship.
Now, when that same kind of leather is selling for forty-nine
5 and fifty cents a pound, we still maintain that we have the
lust harness that can be made, All you have to do to prove
5 lhat'wi' are telling you facts is to go to the next "snle," and
hear Col. Kensley Hawkins say in that musical drawl for which
S he is so famous, "This is a set, gentlemen, of Mike Brown's
Harness. What do you bid" Then's when you can see the
H farmer "set up and take notice." for he knows there will be
some bidding on that harness.
This is the time of the year, when Harness is foremost in
every farmer's mind, and this is the time of the year, also,
when we are ready to sell him. All winter long our men have
been making up harness for Spring trade, and now we nro
ready. Of course, it's higher than when our grandfathers
used to buy it, but, considering (be price of leather, it's a
wonder how low in price and high in quality the Sipinro Deal
harness is.
Come in, gentlemen, we are ready to rig up those horses.
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEAL WW
M
S
EVERYONE LIKES THE FLAVOR OF WHEATfNA
TUY ONE PACKAGE. IT 80LYES THE HIIKAKFA8T 1'IIOIILEM.
JUST TAPPED ANOTHER BARREL OF THE FINEST NEW ORLEANS
MOLASSES EVER DROUGHT TO TOWN.
C1EI8EL & &CONRAD Phone 43.
; Mrs. Margnret .Chllds Is critically
III nl her homo on the Fleming plko.
i WITHOUT THE RIGHT
TIiomsiiihIm A in Voting, Says Attorney
fJcnfrnl Logan Thane Comlrlcd
In I'nllcil Stoics Court Are
RNfrniichkcnieut.
Several thousand citizens of tho
Htnto of Kentucky hnvo been cxcrcls-
' lag tttclr Biiffrngo, when, according
to Federal statutes, they liavo been
disfranchised. This stato of affairs
has come to light through Investiga
tions made by Attorney General M. M.
Logan of Frankfort; United States
Marshal It. C. Kord and United States
! District Attorney Slattery of Coving-
ton. Attorney General Logan was con
sulted with referenco to his construc
tion of Federal Stntute No. 3!15, which
reads as follows:
"All offenses, which may be pun
ished by death or Imprisonment for a
term exceeding on year, shall be
deemed felonies. All other offenses
shall be deemed mlsdcmeaors."
Tho Attorney General advised Mar
shal Ford, after a conference, that ho
construed tho statute to mean that all
persons, convicted In the United States
court, are disfranchised. Tho Federal
statute has been in existence since
1909.
Section 143U of the Kentucky Stato
Statutes reads as follows:
"Persons convicted in court of com
petent Jurisdiction of treason or felony
or bribery In an election or for such
I high misdemeanors as tho General As
sembly may declare shall bo excluded
irom me ngui oi suuragc; oui persons
hereby excluded may bo restored to
their civil rights by executive pardon."
Attorney General Logan holds that
none but the President of the United
States, under this section of the State
Statutes, can pardon and restore civil
rights to persons thus disfrachised.
United States Marshal Ford declared
I that the knowledge of the fact that
'convictions for illegal sale nnd man
ufacture of whisky constitutes a fel
ony nnd means the disfranchisement
of those so convicted, will hnvo a ten
dency to greatly reduce the number of
violations of the law pertaining to the
manufacture of whisky. The records
in the United States District Court at
Covington show that several thousand
persons have been convicted of "boot
legging and moonshinlng" since tho
enactment of the Federal Statutes,
making it a felony subject to dis
franchisement for such violations.
STREET. PHONE 519.
L. N. HEIIAN.
nave nan a miiin, g
(Bl
Sail
Manchester High .School No .Match For
MajsUlle nml Locals Win Hy
Largest, Score In Yenrx.
Thoso who have been awaiting tho
bnsketball gamo between tho Mays
vlllo and Manchester High School
teams were more than pleased with
tho result, as tho local lads trimmed
tho up-rlvcr players to tho tunc of GU
to 17. The gnmo was played Friday
night In tho High School gymnasium.
The followers of the local team were
somewhat discouraged at tho showing
mndo by the team on the down-river
trip in which It lost every gamo and
were anxiously nwalting the timo for
the Manchester team to bo tncklcd and
sco tho return to form of the locals.
The Gold and White started the
game with a grim determination to
redeem themselves. The bnli had
hardly been thrown up at center until
by rapid passing and accurate shoot
ing Kverctt, the rapid little forward
TUiM-iaj
i:erett Started the Work That llmnr
l'! the Firs? Goal.
)f M. II. S., had rung up a goal. Once
started the Maysvllle boys could not
bo stopped and when time for the first
half was called the score stood -P.) to
7 In their favor.
After u brief intermission tho game
was resumed and with their second
string men in the lineup Maysvllle
continued to pile up points on tho
boys from tho pearl button town, the
final score resulting Muysvillc 59,
.Manchester 17.
This game was the most remarknblo
ever played by nny M. II. S. team and
several records were smashed, Kv
erctt breaking the goal throwing rec
ord with twelve, whllo tho score was
the largest ever mado by n local high
school team. The lineup:
Maysvillo Manchester
Hamilton It. F Carroll
.Jverett L. F Penny wltt
Smoot C McNeil
Parker ..It. G Dell
Shea L. G... Drittlngham
Field Goals Kverctt Vi, Hnmpton
7, Smoot C, Kerr 2, Shea, Parker, Car
roll 4, Pennywitt 3.
Foul Goals Hampton, Pennywitt,
Carroll,
ltefercc Mnnce.
Attendance 100.
Jilt. JAMES FINNKltTV TO Ol'EX
(iKOCUUY AND MEAT STOltK
ON MARKET STREET.
Market street is to liavo another
new storo. Mr. James Flnnery will,
within the next few days, open a fancy
grocery and meat market In tho build
ing formerly occupied by Air. Kdwnrd
Whlttlngton. Mr. Flnnerty, who has
had several years' experience In tho
grocery and meat business, will keep
ouo of tho most up to date stores in
tho city nnd will no doubt enjoy u
good patronage. The opening of this
place of business leaves but low va
cant rooms on Market street, which
for u short time after tho closing of
the saloons looked very dcsolato.
LEAP YEAH DANTE SUCCESS.
Tho first Leap Year danco of the
season wub given by the fair sex of
Maysvillo (it Neptune Hall Friday
night. Ono of tho largest crowds that
ever attended a dunco In this city
was present to enjoy the music by
Goodwin's Trio of Lexington. Lunch
was served nt tho F. 11, Traxol .t
Company dining room. Among tho
out-of-town gliosis woro Miss Curry
of Carlisle, and Misses Wnlllngford.
Hull and Jenkins of Flcmlngnburg.
ADDITION TO STAIILE.
Mr. Alllo James, the East Second
street liveryman, Is building a large
addition to his largo feed nnd sale
barn. This addition will enable Mr.
James to caro for his growlug patron
age. Our prlco this week for buttorfut,
32 conts Maysvllle. Ilrlng It In any
day, any time of tho day, and rocelvo
your check promptly.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CREAMERY.
"BASEBALLFORSPORT"
Slogan For Proposed Reorganized
llluo (Jrasst League MnyHillle,
Lexington nml Frankfort
Chili Onlclnls Held Con
ferenee IMans Were
Outlined.
(Lexington Herald.)
Tentative plans for tho reorganiza
tion of tho old Hluo arass League,
with the Central Kentucky towns
members, were discussed hero yester
day by mngnntes of tho Lexington,
Maysvillo nnd Frankfort baseball
teams. Tho conference was Informal
and was held nt tho furnituro storo of
Colonel C. F. Hrowcr, president of
the local club. Tom Russell, president
of tho Maysvllle club, was in Lex
ington, and O. W. Hay, president of
the Frankfort club, was talked with
over long distance telephone. Hogan
L. Yancey, a heavy-holding director,
and Stephen James, secretary of the
club, woro nlso present.
"Ilaseball for sport" will bo tho slo
gan of tho proposed new league, with
general running expenses reduced suf
ficiently to permit the clubs to break
even nt the end of the season. Few of
the magnates of tho present Ohio
State League aro In baseball for pro
fit, It Is declared, and all would bo
content to go through each season
without a loss, giving their time and
attention to It for the lovo of tho
sport. ,
Six Clubs Proposed.
Visits will bo made In the near fu
ture to Paris, Richmond and Winches
tei in an effort to revive the old cir
cuit, and Lexington, Frankfort and
JSaysvlllo already have declared their
allegiance to the Illue Grass League If
the neighboring cities In the Central
Kentucky section will join them. It Is
believed that sentiment In these towns
if rapidly crystallizing for profes
sional baseball again, and prospective
barliiTS will be interviewed within tho
imxi week, doubtless, by tho men al
ready nlfllinted with the Ohio Stato
League.
Tho secretary or the local club til-r-ady
has written to these towns to
dcti'riniiio the men interested in the
game, ami has suggested that Joo F.
Carr, now president of tho Ohio State
League, bo called Into conference.
President Cnrrpl howowr, doubtless
would not welcome the change, It Is
believed, If It is fo rob tho Ohio Stato
League of some of its most valued
PARIS
COPIES
It sounds absurd to say any of this popular priced
Fndonvenr was copied from Paris models, nevertheless
it is true. .Much of this lingerie is directly copied from
the French. Less costly nainsook and batiste, more in
expensive Ince, nnd machine work instead of hand stitch
ing brings the American product within the reach of any
woman who loves dainty undergarments.
Nightgowns 50c to $2
Material not too sheer, but very soft and fine, at
tractively trimmed with embroidery or lace $1 elabor
ately trimmed "best gowns' $2.00.
Envelop Chemise 50c, $1
Inexpensive and daintier than any we've ever had.-
The coolest garment ever made for summer wear.
Jailor John W. Kltel Is homo from
Frankfort, where ho went to uso bis
Influcnco against tho bill proposing a
Saturday Will Be Red Letter Day
Double Stamps Last Day To Get Doll Tickets
Saturday begins our Alttr-Inventory Sale, On every $2 purchase or over on Saturday we shall give a
Silver Souvenir Spoon. Only one spoon to each customer. Come Saturday with the CASH prepared to
buy some great bargains. Besides the goods offered in the big sale we shall o(ter the following:
LAIHL'S' SITrS-ClioIre of slock nt 5a price.
LAMBS' FANCY COATS ko at U price.
LAMMS' RLACK COATS--.:i'3 discount.
CIMLMILN'S COATS-Cholce ut i price.
ITRS-Our fctock goes ut ii price.
LAML'S' HATS-Cholro of uny hat for OSp.
('lllLlilth'N'S HATS-t'liloce 50r.
CIIILIUIL'VS $2 RAIX CU'KS $1.
LAMLS' lUtL'SSI'S One lot vvortli up lo 25 to go ut $1.93 to $1.93.
L AMMS' JIRL'SSKS- The Imlance of our stock lehsXi'j'-c discount.
ROI'SK MtDNSh'S All In slock go ut C9c.
XttKaESlESEBS jes m O SI. S'l
members, Ho Is known to to ho opti
mistic over basobnll conditions for
tho present season, with a plan to en
list other cities to make tho old or
ganization tho stnunoh circuit its
backers would like to sco ft.
MnKnnlc Are Dubious.
In the past, however, local mag
nates, and last year oil of them, drop
ped n tidy little sum In tho operation
of tho olub, and nro not over-eager to
icpeat tho experience, nlthough with
a well organized circuit, with other
economics, baseball might well bo
como profitable.
President Hay assured tho backers
of tho Maysvllle nnd Lexington clubs
yesterday that Frankfort Is again
ready to enter baseball, and will
stand witli them In nny movement they
make for tho betterment of conditions
surrounding tho national pastlmo In
centrnl Kentucky. Other conferences
will bo hold In tho future to dctcrmlno
tho exact status of affairs.
SHOE SPECIAL FOR SATURDAY.
Women's shoes, broken lots but
have nil sizes nnd widths, $3 to $4.50
vnluen for $1.45.
HAHKLRY'S SHOK STORK, Inc.
Are you taking advantage of tho
bargains In women's shoes at Uark
lry's Removal Salo7
THE HOME DF QUALITY CLDTHES
TWENTY-FIVE YEARS AGO MOST MEN WENT TO A CUSTOM BOOT MAKER FOR
THEIR SHOES, BUT HOW MANY GO TODAY7
The shoe stores multiplied iistoiinilingly liecauso tlu-y sell more shoe fit, comfort and valun
tlinn tin' custom boot mnker. The ready-for-use makers have studied find classified every foot
until they can (it it exactly. It is simply n matter of a courteous clerk measuring your foot
to find the right standard, sixe and shape; then you have shoo satisfaction.
THAT IS TRUE OF CLOTHING ALSO. IN "HECHINGER" CLOTHES YOU CAN GET
THE EXACT FIT YOU CRAVE WHETHER YOU ARE STOUT OR SLIM, TALL OR SHORT.
A very slight adjustment is probably all you need this is possible because we have con
centrated fifty-live years of close study on tho assembling of clothes that do lit. The values,
the fabrics and the workmanship are high in keeping.
Make it a point to come in and let us prove it to you.
reduction in compensation for feeding
prisoners. Tho bill was reported unfavorable.
I B1Grass Creamery Butter j
DMinrl r4-r In Wax I
- jl vi i. uuuu UsJ Vllld Cartons
Made in Maysville and Wc Get It Fresh Every Day.
It Sure Is Good.
Mr n, E. tledford of Paris Is visit
ing here.
BIG SPECIAL SALE NO. 4
-FOR FRIDAY
Best Machine Oil
Can AH For
Splendid For Sowing Machines, Etc.
M. F. WILLIAMS
Ilrlng I's Your Laundry.
Mr. R. R. Diddle of Carlisle, was In
this city Friday.
Corset Covers 25c to $1
Dozens and dozens of pretty garments, all with re
inforced arm holes. Corset Covers were never more ar
tistically designed, more perfectly made than are these
dainty garments and from the simplest to the most elab
orate yon will find the pricing as practical as the Corset
Covers aro pretty.
Princess Slips 50c, 75c
A charming representative of the "something new"
you can always count on finding in this sale. These prac
ticnl garments are for children G to 14 years old and
judging from the eagerness with which mothers aro buy
ing, this "Little Lady's Slip" must supply a long felt
wnnt.
Women's Suits at Half Price
Each, accurately interpreting Fashion's latest mode.
Knch authentic to tho most minute detail. Workmanship
nnd finish of cxtremo excellence. Incorporated aro tho
newest ideas in collars, sleeves, pockets, length of coats
and the approved style in skirts.
Suits of exceptional merit for $25 and at tho HALF
PRICE, $122 they aro wonderful bargains.
Mrs, Ncttlo Kcklar of Commerco
street, tills city, Is having a residence
built on her farm In Pendleton county
SKATTXfl COATS-Worth i-$L99.
CHILDREN'S it'll MIKSSES One lot Viorlli up (o 1, 9Sc. One
lot north up to $l:, COr.
CHILDREN'S WOOL DRESSES oue-liulf price.
LAMES' COLOKL'll PETTICOATS 69c, North, up lo 2.
SHOES lU'o dUcount.
LAMES MUSLIN IIR.UVKRS-Tho best Me uilue on tlio market,
3 for 1.
CHILDREN'S JU'SLl.V DRAWERS Trimmed wllh embroidery,
tlzo 2 to 12 years, 10c.
JILSSES MUSLIN DRAWERS Worth 20r, na!o prlco 2 for 23c'
:i 107 West Second Street, ff
Phone 20.
FOR SALE Household furnituro.
Krnlo Ort, 30 Knst Third street. 3i
AND SATURDAY-
and
8 Cents 5
DRUG COMPANY
Wc Arc Agents For tlio Modern.
Mr. J. K, Kcarns of Paris, Is a
business visitor here.
Miss Ruth Hopkins of Cincinnati,
will arrive this afternoon to spond
several days with her parents here.
J
vL
4f1
-1
'A
a
