JklayAdvocale
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
UNivrR.qiTY
FEB 2 OJfjpial Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. III. No. 41 Ll BRAKY"
CINCINNATI, OHIO, JANUARY 29, 1916
One Dollar a Year
J r- lll nM ll S
'&m
.
Ik
State Federation of Labor Statement
in Regard to Youngstown Riot
Ignorance and the Steamship Trust Blamed for the Condition. In
teresting Meeting of the Executive Committee of the Ohio Fed
eration of Labor, Held at Cleveland, January 23, 1916.
Serious as are the conditions which
exist in the steel district of East Youngs
town, Ohio, this district is no excep
tion to the general rule and the recent
trouhles there arc likely to he repeated
in other sections at any time. Ignor
ance is not only encouraged hut actual
ly promoted hy the men who control and
operate the great mills and furnaces of
the country. Manufacturers deliberately
import labor, with the aid of the steam
ship lines.
Last weeic, Tiik Laiiok Advocate pub
lished an interview with one of the best
known labor leaders in the State in
which conditions were described briefly ;
this interview is now confirmed by the
report of President John A. Voll and
Secretary Donnelly of the Ohio Federa
tion of Labor which was made by these
officials at a meeting of the Executive
Board during the week.
It is well known among those who
make a study of labor conditions that
when labor is assembled at one of these
great plants, men of different, nationali
ties are brought together; for instance,
at Youngstown one interpreter, a master
of sixteen languages, could make himself
understood to less than half the men and
among those men in the employ of one
mill, there are thirty-one languages
spoken.
These men arc assembled with the
deliberate purpose of confusion and
while attempts have been made to es
tablish schools, and other educational
establishments where these men might
learn to understand one another and
become acquainted with American ideas
of law and order, these attempts have
been opposed by officials of the manu
facturing concerns. To permit these
men to understand our laws and cus
toms, even to understand one another,
would cost the manufacturers money.
If the men were able to understand they
would refuse to submit to present con
ditions ; hence the opposition of the
operators to education and the mixed
languages.
There is a law against the importation
of contract labor, but this law is easily
avoided through the steamship compan
ies which make a business of inducing
these poor wretches to come to this
country and parcel them out to labor
agents after they arrive. Men are prom
ised fabulous wages and this induces
them to believe they can easily become
rich within a short time in this land of
milk and honey.
They leave homes in their native lands
expecting to return within a few years
with a fortune; they reach the promised
land and become slaves. Read the re
nort of the officers of the Ohio Federa
tion of labor, which follows, and gain a
better understanding of the conditions
which surround foreign labor in the in
dustrial centers. The report is conser
vative and conditions are worse than de
scribed. At a meeting of the Executive Hoard
of the Ohio State Federation of Labor,
held at Cleveland, January S."l, the en
closed report was submitted by Presi
dent Voll, signed by him and Secretary
Treasurer Donnelly. The action of
President Voll and Secretary-Treasurer
Donnelly in visiting Youngstown and
investigating conditions there was ap
proved by the board. The following re
port was adopted by the Executive
Hoard:
To the Members of the Executive Hoard
of the Ohio State Federation of
Labor:
No doubt through the public press you
are all familiar with the strike .that oc
curred in our State at East Youngstown,
and the rioting that followed, and pre
suming this to be true in making report
of our visit to that city, we shall en
deavor to spare you the monotony of
detail.
Immediately upon receipt of the riot I
news through the daily press, I called
Governor Willis over the phone from
Zancsville, and as President of the State
Federation of Labor, requested that he
sec that a thorough investigation be
made as to what caused the trouble at
East Youngstown, and to see that those
guilty be punished, whether it be cm
ploycr, private policeman, striker or I
strike-breaker, which upon request ot j could not grasp the commonest tuiiua
the Governor, I reduced to writing and mentals for advancement, even if in a
received a reply later that he had or- mood to try, which would be unlikely
dered an investigation. I also immed-j considering their conditions and treat
iately telegraphed John J. Grauey, local ment.
organizer for the A. 1". of L. at Youngs- So let us lay the blame where it right
town, to wire me the truth of the affair fuiy belongs, upon the great steamship
as near as he could glean it, and in ad- companies and trusts who through ad
dition tried to get Executive member j vertisement and agents hold out milk
Thos. Moore over the long distance, but ' alu i10,ley conditions to these people in
failed, their native lands in order to entice them
Mr. Graney wired, requesting me to to this country for the purpose of ex
conie to Youngstown and if not possible ploitation and lowering the wage and
to send Secretary Donnelly. Realizing , living standards of the American work
the importance of labor in Ohio having man.
a report of the affair based upon its That t,js js tlc object is plainly cvi
own investigation, I asked Secretary ' cnX t,at the only real agency, the La
Donnelly to accompany me to Youngs- )or Union, through which they would
town. Arriving at Youngstown we met become Americanized and taught rc-
Organizers Graney and Flynn of the !
A. F. of L.. alone with a number of
Lother organizers" of different crafts and'
with them went over the entire proceed- ,
ugs iroin iiugiiimiiK iu i:uu, .mil me iui- 1
lowing day visited the scene of the riot.
We also met Mr. Fred Croxton, the
State Mediator and his assistant, Mr.
George Miles, with whom we had .two
or three conferences. We also talked
to Mr. Mallard, assistant to the Attorney
General, representing the State, and a
number of citizens. We found that the
private police employed by the Youngs
town Sheet and Tube Company, were
the aggressors in the fighting preceding
the rioting, and therefore responsible
for inflaming the minds of the people
that precipitated riot. We found there
was no nrovision for education of the
1 foreigners, who largely comprised the
population, either to lit them lor citizen
ship or to respect our laws : on the con
trary the company, through its president,
Mr. James Lamphell, ohjectcd to nigui
schools for these people, ignorant of our
standard of civilization and of our laws,
illustration of which is shown that out
of a population of between nine and ten
thousand, there are only -fit voters and
eleven hundred children in the schools,
only nine of which are in the high
school, SO in the eighth grade, 10 in
the seventh, 110 in the sixth, .IS in the
fifth, l.Vl in the fourth and 825 in the
first, second and third; this in itself
tells the story of what caused rioting,
when after years of exploitation, both
in and out of the mills, these men struck
as their only means of protest against
the inhuman methods forced upon them
through their ignorance and complete
Building Trades Council
Holds Regular Meeting Last Thursday Night Only
Routine Business Transacted
The regular weekly meeting of the
Building Trades Council was held
Thursday evening with a large attend
ance, President Cullen presiding.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
A communication from the Elctrical
Workers, Local SI a, stating that Gus S.
Decker has been elected a delegate to
the Council in place of W. R. Mac
Trender, was read. Mr. Hecker, being
present, was duly obligated.
A communication from Hodcarncrs'
District Council named William Sum-
economic control by the companies,
Forced to work twelve hours a day and
seven days a week, progress of advance
ment for the masses of these people
either socially, educationally or morally
is impossible, even if facilities were af
forded them for these purposes, as hu
man beings completely worn out in body
and mind with the only perspective con
fronting them of eat, sleep and slave,
s))cct anu obedience to our country and
;,c i..,- ;c ,lenin,l them tlirnnph threat
amj actiull 0f depriving them of
opportunity of making a livelihood. Hut
.,. ias happened at Jiast youngstown
may happen an over tins country, as Hu
manity, be it ever so ignorant and do
cile, comes to a point where it will re
bel, as in the words of the great hu
manitarian, Abraham Lincoln, "Thank
God we have a system of labor where
there can be a strike. Whatever the
pressure there is a point where the
workingman may stop."
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN A. VOLL,
President.
TIIOS. J. DONNELLY.
Secretary.
At the same meeting, the resignation
of First Vice President Farrell, was re
ceived, accepted and a committee ap
pointed to draw up resolution m ap
preciation for his services as an officer
of the O. S. F. of L. (Mrother Far
rell's resignation as an officer of the
Federation was caused by his accept
ance of the position of Public Utilities
Director of the city of Cleveland. Our
constitution provides that officers of
the Federation accepting such political
appointments, shall resign as officers of
the Federation.)
The Board went into an election to
fill the vacancy caused by Brother Far
rell's resignation, all Vice Presidents
being advanced and Brother Chas. L.
Vaughn, of Hamilton, Machinists' Un
ion No. 211, being elected Fifth Vice
President unanimously.
mers as a delegate to the Building
Trades Council.
The report of Business Agent Hock
was read, and upon motion was received
and filed.
The committee which has charge of
drawing a new contract with the Em
ployers' Association read the minutes of
the four meetings of the joint commit
tee and reported progress.
All trades reported business good.
There being no further business the
: meeting adjourned until next j nursu.ij
evening.
What a Difference Between
The Case of the Indicted Painters and That of R. J.
Goeddel. Prosecutor Campbell Said That He Would
Devote All His Time Sending the Painters to Jail,
But He Devoted His Time to Clearing Goeddel
After He Had Plead Guilty.
The Laiiou Advocatk has no disposi
tion to annoy public officials, judicial, or
otherwise; but is always willing to as
sume responsibility for criticism when
wrong-doing appears evident.
Under these conditions, the Lauou Ad
vocate feels called upon to call attention J
to what appears to be a rather inconsist- ' I
cut situation in the office of the county
prosecutor of Hamilton County, our
viewpoint being gained from the state
ment of Prosecutor Campbell, delivered
at a certain banquet at Mecklenburg's
saloon, New Year's eve, and through
subsequent events.
At the banquet referred to, Mr. Camp
bell said politics should not enter into
the trial of the men who are accused of
murder at Christ Hospital last Novem
ber and that the men would be convicted
if it required him to devote his entire
time to the conviction.
Among the subsequent events not ex
plained by Mr. Campbell is that a mem
ber of the Republican Campaign Com
mittee had insisted that the men be
placed upon trial without delay, despite
the protest of the counsel for the defense
that a fair trial could not be obtained
at this time. Delay was refused and the
men will be placed on trial as soon as
they can be reached on the docket.
During the past week it has developed
that the case of a certain ex-city official,
a Republican, indicted for stealing a
large sum of money from the city water
department, was transferred from the
criminal court, presided over by Judge
Cosgrave. a Democrat, to the court of
Judge Warner, a Republican, without
the knowledge of Judge Cosgrave, and.
uiioii a plea of guilty, given a suspended
sentence.
Judge Warner says he knew nothing
as to the cause of the' transfer of this
case to his court and that he suspended
.sentence upon the man who had pleaded
guilty of stealing more than sixteen hun
dred dollars of the taxpayers' money in
order that he might have a chance to re
deem himself. The judge makes no men
tion of the fact that this man confessed
he had received a hot tip on Mockery,
a certain race horse, took the money of
the city payroll and went to the race
track and lost it.
Evidently Judge arner does not re-
.,,.. 1 ;. ..c -, crirmc ffnni fnr n .11-111 tn
steal the monev of the citv and bet it
mi l.n.. r.ircs im-e he uives him a
suspended sentence in onier tnat ne may
redeem himself. The thought naturally
I occurs : why was this Republican taken
from the court ot a Democratic judge.
without the knowledge of the latter, and ; as though this criminal nas oeeu reieas
allowed to plead guilty and receive a . ed, and if there were no political mtlu-
suspeiuled sentence before a Republican
indue? 1
Judge Warner, who is a most estmi
case under advisement, and the matter
was brought to his court on the plea
of the prosecutor that bulge Cosgrave
was so crowded he could not handle the
case.
ludge Cosgrave says he had no knowl
edge that the case was to be taken from
his court and that he proposes to inves
tigate the causes leading up to its trans-
e. . .1... ..n?r nrnnnrll' lielfMHreil tn tile
11:1. iu. ... ,.-Ty... .... .- -
criminal court, which is presided over
by Judge Cosgrave. .
Prosecutor Campbell, who has been in
.1 i.ii .,,.0 ,inriniT the ivist several
nmnilis. savs the case was taken before
judge Warner because Judge Cosgrave
was too busy to handle it. Judge Cos
grave had notified the prosecutor the
case would be taken under advisement:
that he wanted to study the merits of
the case and that he regarded a public
official who betrays a trust in the same
light as that of a common thief.
According to statements of the two
judges, neither knew the facts: one in
tended to look into the merits of the
case while the other was lead to believe
the proper court was too busy to handle
it. Judge Cosgrave says he is going to
.1:' ....,. ...1,.. .i, ,-ncn' ivnt taken from
IIIMUICI UJ IMV V...-V - -.- - - -
him after he had told the prosecutor that
able man, a worthv citizen, and who en- , puuuum juukc. mhu .: unuuj i-
joys the respect and confidence of the , dark as to the real merits of the case?
community, savs he had no knowlege of Politics may play no part in the trial
,i. ..... .1,... "i,i.r,. rVicirmve imil this of the nainters who must tace a charge
JUDGE WARNER SAYS
"This is the first I knew
there was any question us to
the propriety of my hearing
tills matter," Judge Warner
declared. "I was told that
Judge Cosgrave was busy in
the trial of another matter and
I agreed to hear it in the usual
course of business."
JUDGE COSGRAVE SAYS
"Tills kind of thing lias got
to stop. I will demand an ex
planation from Prosecutor
Campbell," Judge Cosgrave an
nounced, when informed later
that the hearing bad been con
cluded and Goeddel bad been
given a suspended .sentence,
which will permit him to re
turn to Detroit, Mich , where
he lias a position. "When the
matter was presented to ine,"
Judge Cosgrave continued, "I
was told that the prosecutor's
oflice would make no recotn
mendation in the matter,
either for or against a sus
pended sentence. I said I
thought the case of a public
oilieial embezzling money was
different from an ordinary case
of embezzlement and that I
wanted to take the case under
advisement. The net thing I
heard was that the case hud
been transferred to Judge
Warner to hear. I will insist
011 an explanation."
PROSECUTOR CAMPBELL SAYS
Prosecutor Campbell said
later to the Times-Star that be
understood that the ease had
been taken before Judge War
ner because Judge Cosgrave
was too busy. Times-Star.
-f
he wanted time in which to study it on
its merits. The county prosecutor con
tents himself with the simple statement
that he took the case before Judge War
ner because Judge Cosgrave was too
busy to handle it.
The question which interests the peo-
' nle is: Who is right? Neither the word
of Judge Cosgrave or that of Judge
I Warner will be doubted by those who
know these gentlemen and 'it would ap
pear that somebody has allowed politics
to net mixed tin in this case, thereby im
posing upon both judges ; in fact, it looks
. ence, what intlttence was it wmen causeu
omebodv to deceive a Democratic judge
in order to get this case before a Re-
of murder, but has no political influence
entered into the case of this man who
stole more than sixteen hundred dollars
of the city's money and who gets off be
cause his hearing was transferred from
a proper court, presided over by a Dem
ocratic judge, to the court of a Republi
can judge who knew nothing of the
facts. Even though the money had been
refunded, a thief is a tluet and should
1 - ,- . ..... . .. .,....,
1 iw puiiiiieu. 1 m a un. .uu .....v..
was in the : mmd of Judge CosRrave
when he told Prosecutor Campbell that
he would investigate the case.
I What was the idea of Prosecutor
Campbell when he secretly transferred
the case to the court of Judge Warner?
Was it politics or was it an old-fashioned
shell game, such as those which were
pulled off forty years ago?
WANT M-HOlMt WK1CK.
Minneapolis, Minn. Typographical
unions of this city and St. Paul are in a
joint movement to improve conditions
of their ioh printer members. The new
scale will include demands for a 44-hour
I week and wage increases from fc'il to
-
!4 a week.
1.1! ... :...!,. i, ... .-ii. .t tin
t
