Four Years Output of Tho Monaco Was Cleared of Every Shadow of Suspicion In Four Days at Joplin!
X1. f 4- .i--- -J
. a A . A A I A i A 1 A 1 A I ft iiM
THE MAN BEHIND THE GUN-:7her7n,i.nf,rntacrtThef
Menace found by the erand jury of
Joplin, Mo. , for .ending scurrilous, obscene and indecent matter throuch the mails, was returned
at the instance of Paul Bakewell. Esq., distinguished jurist of St. Louis, who states that the
proceedings were upon his own initiative, at his own expense and that he did not represent
any society or organization. M The Boston Pilot, March 13, 1915. The Boston Pilot is the
official organ of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston.
This Is Number 249
J try 2. 191
j THE K. C. OATIMVILI, HOT DOWII
1 J fftttews&k, tffebeslj KlxeJ by Ccrtiii Cilfonaj Mates, OfftdaHy
RrptduUd kj Uasoete Craod Udr,t tf tint SLitt, uA tU ftf
. pttritors CffidaJIj Eebuked Rank aid Fit f Catforu.
IS as oca art Dhrorctd tnm Kobm
IT LOOKS BIO, BIAVE, AKD CONVINCIMO
MOTLEY IIEWE3 FLINT, 53d. Derre Tut Grand Muter
of Muou of California.
DANA EEID WEEIXH, 33d. Degree Put Grand Matter of
Mason of California.
WiL RHODES DEE VET, 33d. Degre Tatt Master and Mat
ter of Scottish Ihla Lodge.
SAMUEL E. BCKiLE, 3;d. LVgree Tut Muter auJ Itupedor
of Masonic District.
ft'- If the above mentioned gentle
men bad been possessed of any
other title paat, present, or fu
ture they might all hate been
i displayed in th voluminous lit
erature that baa been put out by
the Knigbta of Columbua over
their attenuated signature.
As they stand they are spectac
ular enough to serve the purpose
for which they were uaed : namely
as a means of fooling the public
into thinking that the Masonic
order of California had officially
investigated the alleged oath of
the Knights of Columbus, and bad
proved it to be spurious.
Its History
Several years ago a papist poli
tician, defeated in his attempt to
misrepresent a Pennsylvania con
gressional district, contested the
election of the successful candi
date and caused the alleged oath
to be printed in the Congressional
Record as part of Congressional
proceedings.
At that time The Menace re
t printed the document, which is
certainly a terror, calling atteu--tion
to the fact that whether the
Knights of Columbus did. or did
sot, take such an oath, their ae
' tions were such ss would rea
sonably be expected from people
who had subscribed to such a
pledge.
The analogy cut popery to the
quick, and stung the papsl sys
tem into frantic efforts to disprove
and discredit the mooted obliga
tion. Knights of Columbus had
inaugurated a reign of terror,
ruffing from the boycott of Prot
estant merchants to the murder of
pstriotie speakers, and the printed
pledge was widely accepted as
logical to the organization to
which it was credited.
Chief among their attempts to
rid themselves of a bad reputa
tion, that was rapidly growing
worse, was the so-called Los An
geles Investigation. This invest!
gstion purports, on the face of it,
to have been entered into and eon
ducted by the titled gentlemen
i whose names appear at the head
of this column.
These four men signed a report
containing several positive state
ments as follows: first, that they
; were furnished with a complete
' copy of all the work, ceremonies,
, ' and pledges used by the Knights
of Columbus; second, that they
examined these documents with
the purpose of ascertaining
: whether . a certain alleged oath
was or was not used by the
Knights of Columbus; and third,
; that neither the alleged oath, nor
any ...rath or pledge bearing the
least resemblance thereto, was to
-. be found in the Knights of Co
lumbus ritual.
Their - report also contained
other matter calculated to absolve
the Knights of Columbus from all
criticisms and to give this militant
branch of political Romanism a
delightful reputation for patriot
ism and every thing thst is good.
rijMW mm mm mmmmm
S As a matter of fsct, this preten
tious document had nothing to
support it but the signatures of
four men. The four men were in
J need, however, to add their Ma-
Honie titles in such a way as to
make it appear that the rcort
wss official and emanating from
the great order of which they
were but "past" officials. The
Masonic order bsd nothing whst
"ver to do with it, and now re
udiates it with a rebuke to the
iur who misused their connee
rta with the frsternity.
t took some time for the Ma
iic Grand Lodge of California
to get to the matter; but in the
meantime the "Los Angeles In
v estimation" baa been heraldeo
broadcast as a vindication ot
popery and its military order. It
was wired snd mailed to prct
and periodicals which were in
duced to publish it by the cflicieut
means in the use of which papa,
gents are adept.
The iioMe Knights priuted tons
of psmphlets containing it, ami
distributed them by msil, lij
freight, and by carrier. The pope'
congressman, James A. Gallivai,
of Massac hu setts and of the papsl
I province ruled by Prince O'Con-
nell, bad it worked into what
purported to be a speech on the
floor of the House of Represen
tatives so it could be printed at
public expense and mailed broad
cast at additional public expense
Half a million copies of this
fske report were faked into a fake
speech by a fskiog congressman,
and mailed as well as printed at
public expense. Such are the dc
lights afforded by hyphenated Mn
sons and papist congressmen
When the Cslifornia Grsnd Loup
took these, and other relsted fact
into considerstion, it passed th
following resolution which is gen
uinely Mssonic and authoritative
ly official i
"Resolved, That tt is tho sense of this
Grand Lodge that bo Mason should
while describing himself aa (urn. or
directing attention to hia Mmonio affilia
tions, or while uainr any title of a pat
or prearat '(Beer of any Maaonie bodr,
lodorae, or appear to indorae, any orgnn
tzatioa aert or body of men aot rwog
niaed by thia Grand Lodge; or iadorae,
or approve, or condemn, or in any way
bear witaeaa for or against, the rituni,
or practices, or purpoare, of any body,
aect or body of men."
Committee Even More Explicit
The Mssonic Chronicler, per
haps the most representative of
all Masonie publications in the
United States, says in comment
ing on the act of Flint et aL, and
on the action of the California
Grand Lodge:
Tba Grand Lodge of California ha
eatpnaUcaUy duavowed and repudiated
any cod uec tion with the action of neTeraJ
prominent Uuom of that itaU in their
attempt to graft angulic wings on the
shoulders of the Bomaa Catholie order
known as the Kaighta of Columbna and
give thia body a clean bill of health be
fore the world. Keaolutioos were pmaaed
condemning what is referred to aa the
unfortunate aad Ul-adviaed act of then
brethren.
Maaona everywhere were chagrined sad
dumbfounded at the officioua audacity of
the California brethren. It waa granted
that aa individual they might art the
nceJa of their approval oa the K. C lit
erature aad document, but when they
attached Maaonie titlea to their aigna
turea they committed aa act which re
flected oa the fraternity and which right
fully brought condemnation from the
craft everywhere.
The teatimony before the special com
mittea to whkh the matter waa referred
gave indication of a widespread and in
tense feeling on the subject throughout
the Jurisdiction. The committee fell that
the action of the four brethren) was un
fortunate aad ill-advised, aad that the
temper of the Grand Lodge demanded,
and the occasion called for aa empnatir
and unanimous protest against this sort
of thing. "Not only should thia grand
body register a vigorous disapproval of
what has been done ia the present in
stance in the iesuance aad publication of
the questionable documents complained
of." declares the report of the committee,
"but it should post a sago of warning,
so plain that 'he ho rana may read,'
in order that there be no similar offense
ia the future."
Aud. the Grand Lodge, following the
s.i creation of the committee, posted its
warning in the above resolution. The
erring "Most Worshipful" and "Right
Worshipfule" bare not yet been heard
from. They perhaps are thanking their
star that the Grand t.odc did not
severely discipline each of them ia addi
tion to resoloting against such aa
aaminiae proceeding. v
The Effect
' . i
The effect of thia attempt to use
the fair name of the great Ma-
FORWARD FROM HERE!
I T8 all over even
1 1 rw
D(JL0 V y'm CBCm7 Pnised the columns of this paper before anything
r " sufficiently tangible to present to a grand jury could be found.
The mountain labored and brought forth a mouse, and a Jury of our peers twelve good
men have just decided that the effort was in vain and that we bad violated no law.
The trial of the case developed the significant fact that, while the prosecuting attorney
and his assistant were profuse in their claims that Rom waa not behind the prosecution, the
principal witnesses against us were Knights of Columbus, and that only Roman Catholics and
Knights of Columbus had ever complained to the government or sought its aid In an effort to
destroy us.
That the stage was set for a conviction wag plain to every unbiased spectator at the trial.
That the prosecuting attorney's office had not worked a whole year in vain was shown
by the precautions taken at the trial and the almost superhuman manner in which they
contested every inch of the ground, leaving not a stone unturned in their masterful efforts to
secure a conviction.
Francis M. Wilson, the prosecuting attorney, was compelled to admit in the outset that
The Menace, as a paper, was not obscene, but, by wrenching here and there a line, and here and
there a paragraph, as you can do from th Bible, 8hakespeare and practically every other
classic in print, expressions could be found that, to the prosecuting attorney's way of think
ing, were sot pleasing to ears polite.
That a conviction was not secured is no fault of his, and the Roman Catholic church can
take it from me that they haven't in their priesthood or anywhere else a man more fluent in
defense of the old church, nor a man who can sing her praises more eloquently. Notwith
standing all this, J. L Sheppard and John L. McNatt towered above their opponents at the
bar like Pike's Peak towers above the sand hills in the valleys below, and, their cause being
just, they eclipsed them in eloquence and routed them in practically every skirmish where
legal points were at issue.
The Free Press Defense League, from whose treasury came the funds to make this power
ful defense, can take much of the credit for justice having been done in our case, and for the
fact that we are today free men. It is the greatest organization of the kind in the world
today and a powerful instrument in the hands of the American people for the protection and
preservation of their liberties.
The battle through which we have just passed is one of the greatest in history. It has
ushered in a new era, and marks the beginning of the end of Romish tyranny In America.
It was a fight between the American people, standing for democracy and freedom, against
the Roman Catholic Hierarchy, standing for ecclesiastical autocracy and human slavery, and
THE PEOPLE WON!
That there will be still other battles there ia hardly a doubt but in all of them THE
PEOPLE WILL WIN if they are but organised' and prepared for the conflict.
The edict of God that men shall be fre has been indelibly written upon the sands of
time, and the gate of Hell shall not prevail against His immutable law!
If this trial teaches anything, it teaches that in the unity of numbers there is strength.
Rome can vanquish an isolated adversary here and there, tut she cannot stand against
a united patriotic people. Therefore, let the forces of Protestantism be united in this great
common cause. ,
Wage war, not upon each other, but upon popery, ignorance and superstition. Hell's
great triumvirate, until this beautiful world is redeemed and bound in very truth.
There is no more effective way to wage this war than by scattering The Menace broad
cast throughout the land. Open the eyes of the people to the danger, and yon can then de
pend upon them to eradicate it. 1 a V.
The little messenger of truth The Menace stands vindicated before the world in its
fight for the preservation of liberty and free institutions, and WE 00 FORWARD FROM
HERE! !
This great victory should renew the courage of every man on the Firing Line and X be
lieve that it will.
The next few weeks should be rich in the harvest of subscriptions, and I am depending on
EVERY MAN doing his whole duty.
LET'S DOUBLE OUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST WITHIN THE NEXT NINETY DAYS;
DEFEAT POLITICAL ROME AT THE NEXT ELECTION AND FORCE THE ROMAN
CHURCH TO AMERCANTZE OR GET OUT OF THE UNITED STATES!
sonic order as a means of white
washing Romanism has been to
arouse tremendous resentment
among the genuine Mubons of the i
racinc coast.
California Masons are clamor
ing for a divorce from popery and
those mock Masons who go to
such lengths to serve papal pur-p-cs.
Instead of gaining by what
they evidently thought was a
clever trick, Rome's bureau of
misinformation ' has placed real
Masons on their guard agsinst a
repetition of such a humiliating
offense.
They have reminded the forget
ful and instructed the ignorant
in regard to the attitude of the
popes toward Free Masonry; and
from this incident the public can
learn what desperate efforts the
Knights of Columbus will resort
to in an effort to escape the repu
tation they have earned and
brought upon themselves by their
acts, no mstter what oaths they
may or may not take.
Aside from its dishonest pur
pose to appear as an official dec
laration of the Masonie order of
By MARVIN BROWN
the shouting aa4 there is rejoicing
In the land over the glorious victory of The Menace and its staff at Joplin.
The Menace was established ia April. 1911; the indictments of which the
paper and its staff have Juit been acquitted were found in January, 1915. for
California the Los Angeles report
is false on its face. It declares
that tho Knights of Columbus
placed before it "a complete copy
of all the work, .ceremonies, and
pledges used by the Order."
Even if all tkese things had
been placed before the four men,
bow could they know it so as to
honestly certify to it in such a
positive and conclusive manner!
Taking the whole matter into
careful consideration, does it not
show that these rfour men i were
more desiroU of pleasing some
papal interest than they were of
declaring the truth or of pro
tecting their owntordert
They could not have been igno
rant of Rome' persistent hostili
ty toward Maeourj or of the num
erous denunciation of Free Ma
sonry a immoral; by pope after
pope. Such MavjM be com
pared only to like prfudo-l'rot-estants
who embce every such
opportunity to support popery,
and to such hyphenated Ameri
cans as are Americans second and
something else first
' a priest taught peopla are aanr varasd.
ia the home of every patriot
Waa aayt tba Romish church is aot
partial to Uncle Hamf To prevent th
innocent cause of bib in the neighbor,
instead of tho cassock and biretta which
would prove to all that they renounced
the pleasure of the world, every priest
of America wrars pants la public; and
bow tomes an article frosa one of the
eighty-five Romish seminaries of the
United State announcing that the
church has further granted to this coun
try the favor of allowing abstinence food
to be cooked with lard or drippings!
Though gelatine and meat gravy are for
bidden oa fsst dnys, 'Romish theolo
gians," says r (fester Catholic, "con
sider a piece of meat the sue of a wal
nut necessarily to constitute matter for a
mortal tin! " Why aot keep such favon
as these in the sacristy f
That the K omish priests assisted by
the bubs turn out mostly jellyfish Cath
olics with bo backbone must be true,
for the priest editor of the Cnton and
Time says. "Just at present what is
needed more than anything else is the
Catholic with a back bo net" What is to
be deplored is that this Romish system
turns out such neutrals, men who are
neither hot or cold, who do hot know
whkh way to move unless the priest
pushes them; mea, ia short, who have
bo backbone !
Cardinal O 'Council has notified all the
priests ia his arrhdioceee to teach the
study of Irish history ia the higher
cIbsbcs, Why aot teach arithmetic, or the
history ef the IaquUiUont
TEXAS JUDGE DEMANDS INDICTMENT
New Crmi Jury at Marskal, Tius, RetBode. ly Jsdft lyttlctoi Uut
Dareact F. Hal Has Not beet bdicterf-Actioa UrxH A;aiast
Mai VYlo Difeode. His lift la His (hra Root Rosiih
f rtuart Prods lata a Du.croes Holt
Judge I.yttletoo of llsirisnn
County Tex., has reopened ll.e
Marshall Hotel tragedy by de
manding that the grand jury now
m session bricg in sn indictment
against Clarence F. Hall v. ho ahot
and killed one Knight of C'olurn
bu. and M-rmusly woundi-d an
other at the time William Illaek
waa murdered.
The conduct of thw judge will
appear more renuirkahle when we
rrinemher that two forruir grand
juries, eoiiipovd of the Im-kI rili
ieiu of Harrixin county, refund
to indict Hull, although Judge
I.yttk-ton demanded that they do
so. Now, ntti-r one year, this
wine judge re ii-vym Imh di-iimnd 'a
the prrM-Dt grand jury. Thia U
little hhort of an open insult to
thri two former grand juries. It
may he doubted that trtcre are
twelve honest Aux-riean citizens to
be found who would indict Clar
ence F. Hall for his aetiou at the
time of the Kounsh invasion of his
room at the Marshall Hotel in
February. 1014.
Those Knights of Columbus iu
vaded the domicile of Wm. ltlaek
nd Clarence Hull fully armed
and apparently inteut on mischief.
They hhot and killed Hlack before
the eyes of Hall.
What should Hall have done
under the circuraManccn? Staud
and he shot himself, or see Mack V
adopted daughter, Sadie Mack,
suffer the fate of her foster father
at the hund of those bloody do
cnders of the popet Nol a thou
sand times, nol
Hall did what any red-blooded
American would dodrew hia pia
tol aud fired iu defense of his per
ton against an imminent and dead
ly peril. He defended his home
agaiust the murderous attack of
unlawful intruders.
Hut why all this effort to have
Hall indicted T Simply this: Hall
is the chief witness against those
Knights of Columbus and they
evidently hope to not ouly r'iy
the trial of those indicted for the
Side Lights
Pcbnridcrhohn tacitly admitted that he
knew that Paul Uakewell had been try
ing for years to have Tub Mxnais
barred from the mails.
Every person appearing for the prose
cution, otbor than MEsant employees,
Aurora resident and government em
ployees, and those who were mentioned
by these star witnesses as having figured
in their plotting against The Minaci
were Roman Catholics. Yet the prosecu
tion continually asserted that Rome was
not responsible for the prosecution.
Outside of tho mass of witnesses whose
sole purpose was to prove that Tus
MlN'act was printed aad mailed which
was merely preliminary detail of the
evidence, the prosecution only had four
witnesses in court. One of tbexe was
not called to testify. The testimony of
toe other three had so much defense
dynamite in it that to call them prosecut
ing witnesses waa a farce.
e '
Pan! Bakewell, lawyer aad Knight of
Columbus, of St Louis, has boasted that
he was the one person who had secured
the indictment against Thc Minaci.
His brother knight, Uarwood, evidently
lent a helping band by saving copies of
Tus Msn'ace with a view to using them
as evidence. Seven articles from among
the thousands whkh bad appeared ia
more than 150 issue of the paper were
the rettUt of hia efforts in defense of
his master the pope and those seven
Maid aot convict.
la establishing the fact that Th
M in" ACS was actually placed in the
United States mails, a host of witnesses,
from the postmaster at Aurora down to
minor employees of THE Mr vacs, and
evea to the subscriber himself, test ion
as to the various stages of the process
of publication. The paper was traced
from the press room to the mailing room,
through the postoffioe substation at th
plant, down a shute to a platform, loader
on drays and hauled to the railroad where
it was loaded oa mail ears and ultimately
delivered to the subscriber. It was
definitely proven that TfiE Mesacb really
passed through the mails.
Another star witness for the prosecu
tion was Edward V. P. Sckneiderhohn, a
lawyer or . Ml Louis, Ma He also eon
trurted a file of The Menace, had in
terviews with Paul Bakewell and Judge
O -NeaJ Byaa concerning The Menace
aad gave several copies of The Menace
to a postofflc inspector. Scaaeidaraoha
murder of Wm. Dlark, but also
to disrredit thia moat important
witnest for the atste.
But will they auceoedt Will
thia present grsnd jury do tho
bidding of the pernicious powers
of the papacy? It nee nn very un
certain. However, it is said that
the foreman of the grand jury is
a violent partisan of Copeland,
Kyan and the other defendsnts
and may be expected to do his
best to bring in the indictmi ut de
tuauded. I'erhnpa he was ap
oiuled with this end in view.
This unprecedented action oa
tlir part of Judge Lyttleton, coin
ing as it does on the heels of his
arbitrary act in changing th
venue of the IMaek murder rao
to (ialvestou, a Roman Catholio
stronghold, ha aroused the iu
dignatiou of the riti.ens of Mar
shall to a high pitch. They feel
that they have already suffered a
hog's plenty at the bandit of this
bunch of holy Ikuc venerator.
Lyttlcton seems to have entered
hia prod in a dangerous hole and
may run something out that will
put him up a tree in the miuds of
hiii fellow citizens.
Many think, however, that th
judge ha seen the handwriting oa
the wall announcing the end of
his political career and that he ia
playing the part of the "unjust
Htcwsrd": mating friends of tho
j mammon of unrighteousness that
wheu he is turned out they may
receive him iuto everlasting Labi
tations. In the above connection it may.
be stated thst the only Roman
Catholic member of the grand
jury now sitting at Marshall was
arrested by the sheriff a few day
ago for flourishing a revolver ia
a threatening and careless man
ner in a cleaning and pressing es
tablishment. The Black murder has caused
history to be written that is any
thing hut a credit to Rome and
her power, not only in Marshall,
but in the nation.
on the Trial
is a Roman Catholic, Knight of Colum
bus, hat bee vice president of the St.
Louis council and chairman of a com
mittee on moral of the St. Louie branch
of the American Federation of Catholio
Societies. There are a number of other
important positions which ho has held,
and ia his own estimation, Mr. Schneider
hohn was a prominent personage. On
of the prime movers ia the pope 'a holy
inquisition in St. Louis, it seems. He
waa the second star witness for the pros
ecution to pale into impotency before th
searching sunlight of tba defense.
Paul Bakewell 'a secretary, Miss Wil
son, identified two copies of the book,
"The Pope Chwf of Whit Slavers,
High Priest of Intrigue," which th
seventh count ia the Indictment was
baaed, and which were held to be noar
mailahle, as having been ordered by her
for Mr Bakewell. The books were sent
to her by mail and she immediately
turned them over to her employer, after
having placed her initials ia them for
the purpose of Identification. After
Hakewell eismined th books one of them
was gives to her with instructions to
send it to th postmaster general alonff
with a letter asking that it be barred
from the mails or prosecution eoameacwd.
When asked bow she sent the book to th
postmaster general, her innocent reply
was, "by mail" She did the very thing1
her employer objected to Tus Menacb
doing.
e
Landry Harwood, a Catholie aad
Knight of Columbus, state deputy of
the order la Missouri, who is a lawyer ta
Kansas City, swore that be had take
The Menacb for about two years aad
that it was sent him by Frank M. Cum
mings of Joplin, a Knight of Columbna,
with the suggestion that he keep a file
for the purpose of finding something,
sometime, in its columns which eovld bis
used in prosecuting the publisher. Be
finally found a few words that seemed
to be strong enough to complain of.
I I'l'mTO Ml. fti IV w low M HU1 OVJ
mm wm n' w lumuij WW mm
having been received by aim through th
mails. He was one subscriber mmomg
one and a half millions who complained
of the language used ia The Msxicb.
He seeded to do that under pressure
from other Knights aad Catholie aad
hia testimony amply bore oat th ena
teatioa of the defease that prosecution
had bees brought at the instigatioa of
Rome bis embarrassment showed that h
waa "caught with the good.'
