THE BARRE DAILY
TIMES
VOL. XIX NO. 270.
HAHKK, VERMONT. SATURDAY, JANUARY 29, 1910.
PRICK, . OXK CENT.
i
FRENCH
DRIVEN
BACK
I at Fricourt ami one cast of Cuinehy. No
damage waa done. We sprung mine
east or Givenchy.
JIubtilo artillery linn leen very active
I nntiit our trenches north of Marieourt,
(between Ix hiuI the Im l!a unci' rnnal,
least of Armcnticrc and north of Wyt
schacte. We retaliated, damaging the
hostile trenches in many places.
T
SWISS TROOPS SENT.
ill Put Down Further Uprisings
Lausanne.
in
DAM COLLAPSE
KILLED 50
Tragedy Took Place South of
San Diego, California
Geneva, via Paris, .tan. 20. A battal
ion of landwehr ha Wii aent to Lau
sanne at tlm request of the state coun
cil, to prevent a renewal of the hotttilo
demonstrations during which Die Gor
man flag, raised by the German consul
on the occasion of Kinneror William's
V....1., C TmiiAm Snii.h l,irt.1,,1".v- nUl. Last report
iiiius wi a xn.v.. (said that tin
Germans Captured 1,000
STORM'S TOLL WAS
FURTHER AUGMENTED
t i
of the River Somme and
Cantured 900 Prisoners
A
and Thirteen Machine
Guns
ho eity wag now calm.
NO DEFINITE DATE
SET FOR GERMANY
A Property Damage of Mil
lions Was Done on the
Pacific Coast
PARIS WAR OFFICE
But Declares That at No
Other Points Along Front
Were the Germans Suc
cessful in Their Attack
Secretary Lansing Denies Published Re
port that United States Has Lim
ited Time for Receiving
Reply.
ceived. It is feared that further Ions will
be reported when the lines of communi
cation with the isolated parts of the
state is renewed.
Great loss of life occurred in the Otay
Sun Francisco, Jan. 29. The storm
which has raged over the entire Pacific
coast since earlv Thuradiiv cluimpii toll
11' l.r i T -i T nn c . 1 I
it Hsiuiiuu'll, it. v.., uan. -J. .-ecrcmry . . , 4i, m i ... i .,.,
- . , . , , i i vi uwv tiros man mi lives miu t iscu I'l-'!'
k -rvmTmn V V 7U DCL' I lAllNllliT fn.dnv JnmpJ Tin nilhllHtlPil re-I 1 1
AUMllO lvH V dlVOJ-i . ,, . , t;Wo. .. i,u,i ;..- erty damage amounting to millions of
Germany until Feb. 5 to make a definite dollars, according to reports thus far re-
answer on whether it intended to diS'
avow the sinking of the Lusitania.
At the state department it was de
clared that the Lusitania negotiations
remain lust where they stood early in
the week when Count Von P.nrnsforff
of Several Kilometres transmitted to Berlin a new draft of the valley, south of San Diego, where a dam
proiKmeu agreement mat embodied ail urone ami mi uves were lost
the points for which the Cnited States In the northwestern states, Oregon,
contends. Secretary Lansing flatly do- Washington, Idaho and Montana, cold
nied that any date had been set as a and Heavy snow are reported and raii
timit for Germany's reply. Other state road traffic was demoralized because of
department officials declared they hud the drifts anil slides. Temperatures from
no information on the subject. 20 to 54 below zero were reported in
Montana, i lie storm to-day is gradual
ly" moving eastward and more favorable
conditions for the Pacific coast are pre
dieted.
San Diego. Jan. 28 (by radio to Los
. . 1 1 1 . . .. . . : 1 . 1 .
....... t: .,..ri . . . . .... - . i nK'-"-j ii-nsfc on persons were oe
neaaquaners. iime ..uuuicu r'-' senea of Unexplained Occurrences Last iipVfid to have been killed Jate yesterday
ORDER ARREST OF
THOSE CHEERING
HATCH VERDICT
An Unprecedented Demonstration Took
Place in Caledonia County Court
When Hatch Wa, -Acquitted of
' Manslaughter in Death of
Sumner Brown.
St. Johnsbury, Jan. 29. An unpre
cedented scene was enacted in Calcdo,
nia county court yesterday when Harlow
Hatch, on trial for manslaughter in
causing the death of his employe, Hum
iter lirown by shooting last July, was
found not guilty. A crowd that fillod
the court room und corridor awaited the
return of the jury, who were out three
hours, and upon hearing the verdict, a
demonstration ensued. Judge Zed fcf.
Stanton, presiding, called for order and
after quiet was restored, ordered the
,-ourt olhcers to arrest every man and
woman who hud any part in the outbreak.
Judge Stanton, himself, pointed out
Charles E. Kirk, who had appeared as
one of the state's principal witnesses
u the case, as one of those who bad ap
plauded the decision and ordered his
immediate arrest. The doors were then
locked and the names of every person
in tho court room taken by officers.
Kirk was placed under bonds of $100 for
appearance in court later.
Hatch showed the f fleet of the strain
which be had undergone through the ton
days' trial and wept as his sympathisers
cheered the jury s verdict.
SECURED LOAN
AT 3 PER CENT
Barre Accepted an Advan
tageous Tender in An
ticipation of Taxes
FROM FARMERS' .
LOAN & TRUST CO,
This Is Best Rate of Interest
Ever Secured by
the City
Through its mayor, city treasurer and
tho chairman of the alderinanic finance
committee, Barre" to-day pledged its cred
it for the loan of $48,000 in anticipation
of the lOlti tax levy at the lowest rate
of interest ever offered Barre by a finan
cial house in the 21 years of the city's
corporate existence. Kecently those in
The trial ""thority wcre instructed by the city
was one of the most important ever held
in the local court and attracted large
crowds througout.
CLAIMS HYPNOTIC INFLUENCE.
Berlin, via London, Jan. 29. The cap
ture of 1,000 yards of French positions
south of the river Somme by German
troops was announced to-day by army
3IANY FIRES IN
POWDER FACTORY
and 13 machine guns were taken,
Northeast of Neuville the Germans
stormed the trenches along a front of
about 1,700 yards and captured a few
prisoners and nine machine guns,
Night in Which Seven Workmen
Were Injured and Much Prop
erty Damage Was Done.
"Wilmington, Del., Jan. 20. Seven
Paris, via London, Tan. 29. An. attack workmen were burned, three seriously
. I in tin ft tna 11 Vi f 'nrnntr'ii n ".
Dy we utrm.M uu luB of T)upont poWt,er com.
south of the Somme yesterday along a pany at 6 0iclock ia8t njKlt. xhe cause
width of several muometres lauea com- has not been determined.
wltr nn th uniithern end of the line. One hundred and eight thousand
succeeding only on the bank of the P"d ' smokeless rifle powder were
s ' , . ,. consumed, causing a loss estimated at
Somme against the village of Frise, u $1(,00OOi The buildings were destroyed
was announced by the war omce to-aay. but they were not valuable. The fir.?s
" I followed in muck succession and linlit
With the nearer approach of spring, ed the skies for more than thirty miles
Indication are multinlvtoe of the prep- around. The streets here, five miles
f rmnirninff nn vi- from the scene, were brilliantly lighted
. , , .. . There were no explosions, the accident
nous fronts. Such actual fighting as is . . n , . ln
going on, however, while locally impor- Two hours after the four "flares" a
tant as that in France and Belgium, ap- service house in plant No. 3 ignited and
narentlv f not indicative of Uie beein- w" destroyed together -with... 1,200
. . . .. I pounds of smokeless powder. This was
nag, as yet, of operations on a large nd ndcnt of the 1 ioug It
scale. The situation in the Balkans con- was a development of the burning of a
tinues to excite marked interest, and in- "Sweetie" house near by ten days ago.
creasing attention is being given to the Since that time the service had been
developments in connection with Greece. mMering and as a precaution a guard
. . . . . . . ad been maintained around it.
A enspaten irom Teutonic sources carries
the intimation that King Constantme $400,000 FOR HATTERS.
and a close adviser fear Greece may be
dragged into the war eventually through Is Estimated to Have Been Raised on
the influence of former Premier Venize- inursaay.
1n with the Greek neonle. L Banbury, Conn., Jan. 20. National of
Coincidental there are revived re- . .. .Htimated that the eontribu-
ports that a speedy advance on Saloniki jons made Thursday for the relief of the
is contemplated by the Teutonic allies defendants in the Danbury hatters' case
and that Turkish forces are moving wo,lli at let $350,000 and might
reacn sptio,o"o, accoramg io worn re
when the lower Otay valley dum broke,
releasing a wall of water 30 feet high.
Scores of people are missing. Twenty
five farmhouses were wrecked.
Rescuers were unable to reach the
scene of the disaster at first, as all
bridges were washed out and swollen
streams were so treacherous it was im
possible to launch boats to go to the
rescue.
Several bodies were seen floating in
the flood waters, according to report
received here. Later estimates indicated
that the death list would reach 00. Iiater
reports said 25 Japanese men, women
And Begins to Bring Suit to Break Will
' in $100,000 Estate.
Bethlehem, X. If., Jan. 29. The will
of Miss Mary Mica of Brattleboro, Vt.,
daughter of the late Justice Shea of New
York, in which she left utmost her en
tire estate, estimated at about $100,000,
to the Rev. William McCaulley Jefferis,
an t.piscopal minister, is to be contest
ed. Mrs. Elizabeth McCreevy of Baltimore,
a niece of Miss Shea, has begun plans to
contest the suit and has consulted attor
mys. It is expected the evidence will
deal largely with the subject of hyp
notie power.
Mrs. McGree.vy said in discussing her
plans:
"My aunt thought very hichly of Dr,
Jefferis, and the clergyman had a strong
influence over her.
"But I feel that my grandfather's
property naturally belongs to me, since
X am the only living heir to it.
"My aunt was always considerate of
and children had been drowned. An
area 15 miles wide and two miles long n,e- '?u' by this will I am left only
is devastated. l,OW out- of an estate of $100,000.
The breaking of the dam released 11.- m re my aunt would never have
000.000,000 callons of water which treated me so of her own accord. lam
was rushed down through the thickly convinced she was unduly under the in
populated Otava vallev. flu nice of this minister."
The property loss will amount to at varies jv i,niien ot urattleboro, fa-
least $1,000,000. Because of the fact thcr Of Mrs. Mctireevy, has engaged ex
that they were isolated bv the breakincr Attorney General Clark Fitts of Ver-
of the dam. which shut off any means of mont to handle ins daughter's cae,
reaching other communities, hundreds -"1S8 was oj years oia ai me time
of families in the valley were faciiia a P ter death. She disd in the minister's
rood famine. mmgaiow in iteiiucnem. lie naa round
All possible efforts are beinr made per ill in Atlantic City and brought her
here to send relief to the sufferers in here. She died within three days ol
the valley. her arrival.
Their acquaintance had extended over
nflflftll flf lv Ifna-a Kha 1 1 1 .1 1'alAil
All,, W V T,1 CW T,rn. V1 !. "'""'"
Youth with 22 Riflle.
Dr. Jefferis is married but has been
Albany, N. Y., Jan. 20. A woman and ?flar8.t?rt T0.m hU wife for some time,
where they will be in position to attack.
Although it is reported from Athens
that the Italians are determined to aban
don Durazzo on the Albanian coast ow
ing to difficulties presented to its defense
against the Austrians later reports from
southern Albania are more favorable to
the allies. Rome has advices that Essad
Pasha, leader of the Albanian troops and
favorable to the allies, has effected a
junction with the Italian forces.
London, Jan. 20. Germany's offensive
in the west is spreading southward in
Artois, with succestve infantry as
saults all along the 15-mile line from
Loos to Arras, against both the French
and ISritish.
At only one point have the Teutons
made any gains, according to the allies'
accounts, West of hill No. 140, south of
(rivenehy, after a series of mine, explo
sions, the Germans suceeded in gaining
a footing in some part of the French
advAnced trenches. Another attack di
rected at the same time against French
positions in the neighliorhood of the
road from Neuville to the La Folio has
been completely repulsed, says the Paris
statement.
"A third attack under preparation at
the same time north of Koclinconrt,
near Arrns, was stopped short by French
artillery ami rifle fire, it is asserted,
the Germans not being able to leave
their trenches. Finally, a fourth at
tack, on the road from St. Laurent to
St. Nicholas, northeast of Arras, "was
decisively checked."
"Suth of the mad from Neuville to
La Folic," the statement continues, "we
captured in the morning i
after a violent fi;ht and
violent counter-attacks ol the enemy.
It is confirmed that in this wtion, dur
ing the previou fights, the enemy mif.
ferrd heavy hse. One hundred and
ceived here from the hatters' headquar
teri in New York.
Hwaa stated that while definite fig
urea could not vet be given, reports re
ceived from the largest cities in the coun
try indicate that the response to the
appeal of the American Federation of
Labor for funds to meet the $252,000
damages and costs awarded to D. K.
Loewe & Co., plaintiffs in the case, would
be sufficient to protect the defendants
against losing a dollar of their personal
property or savings. '
About $400,000 would be needed, it
was stated, and this amount, it seemed
certain, had been given.
BOMB IN MILITARY SCHOOL
Exploded During Lecture at Halifax To
day.
Halifax, Jan. 29. A bomb exploded
while a lecture was in progress in the
military school here to-day, injuring
eight, two of them seriously.
Old Psychological Trick Keeps Czar All
Powerful.
In the February Woman's Home Com
panion Laura Spencer Portor tells of a
highly succeslful method of trickery
that helps to keep the cznr of Russia
on his throne in spite of the present
signs that you can't fool all the peo
ple all the time.
The czars of Russia have their im
mense power not only through material
wealth and soldiery; it is a familarly
recurrent fact in history that when
material power needs to be strengthened
to control a numerous and enslaved
people, nothing is so effective as to
i new crater add U it the attribute of divinity and
repulsed the especial iwnctity. superstition controls
the masses more effectually than sol
diery. A man will feel compelled to
withhold Njiidnient of even a despotic
and dissolute ruler if be sincerely be-
a man are said by phsicians to be dying,
another man is in a serious condition
and a fourth person was wounded slight
here late yesterday afternoon in a
series of mysterious attack in each
of which the victim was shot in the
back with a 22 -calibre bullet. Two of
the victims reported that they had been
shot after having been approached by a
young man of slight build who wore a
dark overcoat and who fled as soon n
thev turned upon him.
The victims told the police that they
had not heard a report of a firearm
and none of them knew they were
wounded until after being examined by
physicians. Mrs. John A. McKown was
the first victim, having been shot at 4
oclock in the afternoon, and F. C. Ken
ny, an employe of the state health de
partment, the last, having been attacked
at about 0 oclock.
The youth, who is believed to have
shot the four persons, stopped James
Irwin oh the street and asked him for
match. Irwin said he replied he had
none and turned away and then felt a
sharp pain in his back. Kenny, return
ing home, felt a pain in his buck and
turned around, confronting the youth,
who fled.
Mrs. McKown was returning to her
home and when passing school build
insr was struck by a bullet. Not real
izing s
His wife and sons live in the South.
$6,000 FIRE AT LAKEP0RT.
Firemen Had Stubborn Fight in Business
Block.
Lakeport, N". II., Jan. 21). About 7:25
o'clock lust night a three-alarm fire
caused a loss of $0,000 in the old five
story Morgan block, in the business cen
ter of the city. The entire apparatus
from the Laconia end of the city, in
charge of Chief Engineer Arthur Spring,
was called to aid the Lakeport firemen.
Light hydrant streams and two steam
er streams poured tons of water into the
building. After an hours stubborn bat
tie the fire was under control.
The fire started in an unoccupied room
on the first floor. It was discovered by
.lames Kelley, who occupied a room on
that floor. The building, which for
many years was the passenger station
of the old Concord & Montreal railroad,
is owned by Lawrence Raldi and John
Dodge of this city, who purchased it
about two weeks ago. The loss to the
building in estimated at $3,500, covered
by insurance. '
On the first floor was the store of
George Sanborn, electric contractor,
whose loss is placed at $000. John Chap
council to float a temporary loan, the
notes to mature Aug. 10, when the 1016
tax budget will have been collected. This
year the treasurer did not advertise for
bids; but immediately upon receipt of
information concerning the council's wish
the Farmer's Loan A. Trust Co. of New
York City submitted a bid of 3 per cent.
Those to whom the task of floating the
loan was delegated showed no hesitancy
in accepting the tender of the New York
financial house with the result that the
certificates were mailed to New York
this morning. The $48.'. u0 is to arrive
in the city Monday and will bo placed
on deposit in one of the local banks,
where it will continue to draw interest
until the city's monetary needs in the
spring necessitate a withdrawal of a
part of the fund.
The resolution empowering the mayor,
the treasurer and the finance committee
chairman to negotiate the loan was of
fered at the regular alderinanic session
Jan. 11. It was explained that the mon
ey would not be needed for several
weeks, but the resolution, offered tenta
tively at that time, was accompanied by
the suggestion that the council would
do well to obtain the loan at once, as
the opportunities for floating a short
time note at a comparatively low rate
of interest were unusually favorable.
lhe aldermen were a unit m favoring the
resolution and after a second reading
Jan, 18, it was unanimously adopted.
Last year the usual temporary loan
in anticipation of the 1915 taxes was
floated at a rate of 3.25.
POULTRY SHOW WILL
BE HELD IN BARRE
BURNS ? AS
FNORED
Birthday
' Scottish Poet
the Occasion for a
. Celebration
BARRE BURNS CLUB
PLAYED THE HOST
Entertainment Consisted of
a Program, Banquet
and Dancing
Vermont Poultry, Association Held An
nual Meeting Last Night and Elect
ed W. Barclay Scott as President.
Tho Uth anuual exhibition of the Ver
mont Poultry association will be held in
Barre Dec. 2, 27 and 28. This decision
was readied at ino annual mecung vi
tho association, which was held iu the
courtroom at city hall last evening. V
Barclay Scott of Fair view farm was
elected president to succeed r.. fli: i-jon
of Uarre, whose reply to a request that
he accept a re-election was a request
that he be relieved of the duties of the
office, after a service of four terms. The
1010 hIiow was a bone of contention PC
tween Barre and Montpelier, but it was
ffectively shown that the association
las much to gain py snowing in mi
city and the vote in favor of Barre as
against the capital was very conclusive.
It was pointed out that breeders living
in Barre who exhibit at the stato show
far outnumber the Montpelier poultry
ninn minnnniAi I u'itli Huurw'tation. and
then, too, it was argued that the show, Commemorating the 15,tli anniversary
until 1915, was held in Montpelier for of the birth of Robert Burns, tho Burna
four successive years. club of Barre gathered last evening in
Utner oincers eiectcu lor me ennuuiK rl . n,, ,, . fl, 1 . ,
raoi, a m . V ti.a.tti-.ttil, lnla .V I' AhhOtt. I '
ohn L. Wallace of Barre, W. ll.U.J'erry rr "
of Wutcrburv, W. F. Brown of est to its annual custom. Although sickness
Berlin, E. J. Como of Burlington, A. N. kept a number of the members at home.
Stratton of Montpelier, Frank Haynea of . . , . . . . .
fir.n.. r u n.ar nt uw iwiet.. A. T. I " "
r oJl.,'..' r.t .-i;.ww a r nil. tendance. The program wag more than..
man of Montpelier; secretary, Charles ever of a musical nature and of unusual
Olliver of Barre (re-elected); assistant excellence, tho singing of Harry Clark.
secretary, E. 0. Gould of Montpelier; and .lames Webster being especially en-
treasurer. H. W. Scott of Barre fre-eleet- joyable.
d)j executive committee, the president, lresiuent iiugn inristie extended a
ice-presidents, secretary and treasurer, nearly welcome to tne company and set)
ex-oflieio, R. S. Currier, J. P. Corskie, the exercises in motion by announcing
W. A. Drew, C. A. Dodge, A. W. Hunt- the first number on the program to be a
ington and J. F. Ewing. 80n, 'Kantm' Ravin' Robin," by the
An effort is being made to engage minis ciuo quartet, Airs. Joseph will,
George P. Coffin of Freeport, Mc, and airs, inert wood, James Hogg una
eorge W, Weed of East Lee, Mass., to Angus .vicuonaiu. iius was touowed py
t a indues for the 1016 show. Both a toast to tne memory ot liurns, the re-
1 1 1 c ii were eminently satisiactorv as t'" m-um uv .mines iviuckhv. an.
nidges in the exillUlt held in Uarre last I jiul-kh v gave u jum uuu appreciate, re-
mon tli.
MARKED TRIBUTE PAID
To Arthur S. Martin at Funeral in Uni
versalis! Church.
MRS M0HR LEAVES STAND
After Having Testified for About Three
Days,
Providence, R, I., Jan. 20. Mrs. Eliz
abeth . Mohr, one of the three defend
ants on trial for the murder of Dr. C.
view of the life of Burns, quoting lib
erally from the poet's writings, and his
remarks were received with marked ap
proval
With toasts to Scotland and America,
the program further included songs as
follows:' "The Lea Rig" and "A Man's a
Man for a' That." by Mrs. Gilbert Wood:
The funeral of Arthur S. Martin, who "Scotland Yet," bv Harrv Clark; "The
died Tuesday night after a short illness Star Spangled Banner," by Angus Mc-
with pneumonia, was held yesterday aft- ;"arv AW le- r amPS
Webster; "Scots Wlia Hae," by James
ernoon, a prayer service being held at I0!; JIjr Ain Fo,kg fey Wr JoHepl
the Martin residence, 43 Park street, Will and several Lauder songs by Harry
followed by services at 'the Universalist Clark, James Webster and James Mc-
church. At both the house and the '"', . .
nlitirfth Tiav T R T?nrrmn no afnr nf inn I , . . . 7 . . .
x ' "v l"M '- w . I gprvp.rl hv thft lAilipa u-Afl t.linrAiirrhlir en
LniverwiliHt church, officiated, assisted hnwjl ii rrtiiAw!fl
oy ivev ... . u,,r m there was dancing to music by Bruce'a
Congregatwnal church A large number orche9tra unti, a Jate hour
oi meinuers oi inciua, iouge, o. 10,
Knights of Pythias, went to the house
and escorted the body to the church, lat
er performing the same service from the
church to the cemetery and paying a
tribute at the grave.
The Universalist church was filled with
mourning friends and relatives, , many
THREE STRANGERS
One Was Met By Edward Preedom, Two
By Thomas J, Sexton.
In Montpelier city court his afternoon
people from out of town joining with Edward Preedom of Montpelier and
Thomas J. Sexton of Barre and Wil-
Iianistown pleaded guilty to charges of
third offense of intoxication. Preedom
was given 30 days in jail and ordered to
pay $15 and costs of $7.40, but he was
unable to make the "nnte." Sexton waa
local fraternal brothers, business associ
ates and acquaintances in thus marking
their respect for Sir. Martin. The Gran-
Franklin Mohr, was excused from the ltc savings uauk & irust company, m
witness stand at 10:35 this morning, 'hich .Mr. llartm recently was elected a
after having been under examination ed during the afternoon and
o.-in w-.i ci.. I the hoard of directors and other officers
had been recalled for re-direct exnmina- attended the service in a body. During likewise sentenced and hned but he was
flon hv her nun ,,mal ... l.tnr the hour of the service many of the P1 probation and will be sent to,
.,r..A . . ..4;. v.. stores and other business r aces drew J '" inwronrv,
attorneys. itneir curtains. . i " ' ""i
A Wtw written ,v M, Hm.nr tn . I I "e floral tributes were very beauti- oiraiigrr. mib eiranger ocmg
- - - -. - , - .. . . , ... i 1 1 1 ..... "T'l. i 1 11..
relative of the witne in V-ll Riv.r. the trout of the choir rail and the '""' i. i .,ge., oy u.o
which it was claimed had a bearing on HP being banked with flowers. iYl'T XTi TT .
1 41.. t i ... . i j l.r TM rrt tne court. That Iia r.L-a. Imitnr Knf
in finest on of tho murriurro nt Mr. JUlH-lHl mill riueicu till, I inv . ------
Mohr and the doctor,
le defense. A record
the witness' mother
111.- .t 1. i - . T- T -.1 1 I IT. "(FOes T.rt niv lienil " Ihla linnor vrartt,
, was introduced bv l"c '""'V' "a . . . r J'"1- . l lrC . .-j7i 1
of the death ofon tlie P'Pe orPftn- 1pv- " Harnett l" "" B "". i"c "c.w irec-
in Taunton. June 0"''r,'u Prayer RmI rpRlt tl0m t,,e Scrip- uul" rui 01 me snow
ted over the ob- l"r'8' alter which Xiev. .Mr. Keardon rau. m-umi
man, who conducted a lwrber shop and
he had been shot she continued P1 room on the first floor. sufTered a
fifty f;erman bodies were counted in on lieves that that ruler rules by divine
appointment. The ezars of P.ussia have
not only claimed divine right', but by
the ignorant hsve Seen credited with
divine attribute. The car hss long
Wn pken of by the devout the
'Holy Czar.' the on Earth. "th
'Ad.iu.-ter of the Earth. H. pcrnal
ity is MH-red. None re worthv in . r.wn
ihim. He crnn hinixlf in t hat t?re
Churrh of the Annunciation in Mmm-ow
which is paved ith jrr, conudmn
and agate, while M.hw he!l, hundreds
of the craters we recaptured.
"The nemy bombarded violently our
tositiona at Arras and south nf that
city, the enemy launched a violent in
fantry attack. tir batteries have
counter-shelled energetically the tler
nian artillery."
The British repuK-d an aurauit north
rat of Lots. 1 lie oflicial communica
tion giv.n out lat night rad:
"Yesterday aftern"tn. under the coy
er of heaty rifle, machine pun and ar-
to her home, where she collapsed. She
had been shot through the body, the bul
let emerging from the clwst. John Mc-
Cormiek, also returning homf, was shot
through te rignt lung.
The police did not receive a report of
any of the cases until last night. The
first of these was of Mrs. McKown and
it was three hours later before the oth
ers had been reported.
small, loss. The barber's chairs and pool
tables owned by the Stephen B. Cole es
tate were damaged $400. A. E. Bagley,
who conducted e. cafe in the basement.
uffered a loss by water of $150.
The upper stories were ustd as a
lodging house. James Kelley, Louis
Martin. Dana Bagley and Florence Kol-
lins lost most of their effects".
9, 1 !MI0. -was also presen
jection of the attorney general. The de
fense also succeeded in securing the ad
mission of testimony regarding the bap
iism or tne .Monr cmuiren, which was
claimed material as bearing on the recog
nition of the marriage by the doctor.
Mrs. Mohr testified that Dr. Mohr took
both children to the church for the bap- UNIVERSITY HEAD SENT MESSAGE
t ism. , Attorney General Rice questioned
the witness briefly regarding the letter Was Reid at Funeraj of James t to th , s
and other subjects, and then she was ex-1 . J ,-
cugp(j Miuie, Jr, in Barre. believe in it.
spoke in appreciation of the life of the p ent companion one better on tho
deceased. The burial was in the family stranger proposition; he said he met two
oi mem ami n ws on a ranroaa train
between Williamstown and Barre. The
two strangers had a quart of liquor and
sit in and, by his own admission, par
Sexton was invited to sit in. He did
took of most of the quart. That, he
said, was the reason he happened to be
in court. When the judge ordered him
Sexton said he didn't
lot in Klmwood cemetery, the bearers
being J. Frank Pcrrv. Carl M. Perry,
Dean H. Perry. J. C. More, William E.
Kidd and Lee Parker.
A PROMINENT MASON.
James Russell of Rntland Died
Apoplexy.
Rutland, Jan. 29. James Russell,
Funeral services for James R. Milne,
nr., son of Mr. and Mrs. JamPs S. Milne
I of 53 Liberty street, whose death in Bos-
NATIVE OF ENGLAND.
of ton Tuesday afternoon followed injuries Mrs. Ella Osborne Died at Home of Her
which he received Saturday in a basket-1 Dauehter
ball came between the collesre of admin- I
lLir.i;,.n nt iinifxn in ; vorii t v nnrl thai Mrs. Ella Osborne, widow of William
prominent member of the Masonic fra- LIa81, of m9 at Tuftg coiiPfrei were held Osborne, died at the home of her daugh-
ternity, died yesterday afternoon at the
home of Dr. and .Mrs. 1 liomas Mound,
after a five days' illness following a
stroke of apoplexy.
Mr. Kusscll, who has been retired for
a great many years, did much in a benev
olent way for Rutland people. Ife was
born in Granville, X. Y., Feb. 15, 183-1.
He entered the employ of the Rutland
in the First Presbvterian church in Barre ter, Mrs. Fred Brink, 21 Howes place,
Friday afternoon at 3 o'clock. Previous- this morning at 4:30 oclock. She is
I v. nraver services were held at the survived by her two daughters, Mr.
Milne home. Rev. Edear Crossland. the Brink and Mrs. Richard Vercoe, and
pastor, was the officiating clergyman and three grandchildren, Philip, Phyllis and
a delegation from Clan Gordon. No. 12. ijawrence vercoe. .Mrs. wsoorne was
O. S. C, to which Mr. Milne belonged
gave its services in the church. George
F. Jfackay sang, "Shall Jesus Bear the
railroad as an expert tool maker, where ow, Alone!" and "Jesus Lover of My
FDUND HANGING IN BARN.
Ill
The police d.i-lared that from the
stories of the victims they Iielieve the
youth used a calibre revolver and I Louis Aines of Whiting Had Been
snot irom nis wvrrrua pocket, inus with Grippe
mulllinc the report; or used a aileneins
device. I Whiting, Jan. 29. The body of Louis
The attacks are the second to be re. Aines. the 25-year-old mn of Mr. and
ported to the lxdiee. Ijt week two! Mrs. Joseph Aines, was found hanging
women walking near the state rapito in the harn between nine and ten o'clock
building reported that they had been
shot.
tiilery fire, the enemy attempted an in-jand tena of thousand, ring to pnnUira
lanirr a:ui-K on a au-nv in our mm. I mil a ute a t-n years ago.
Irenrhra twrtheat of Loos. The attack j when be himself Yx mn'ifM n
wa driven trk by mir fire. iotitcrl hi divine rijriit. t!ie czar 14
-t Pls:ht the fwmt waa active ' autocrat - at;tVri!T. nt alime mcr tH.-
with artdWy'fre et of Armentire. , rtt- ;t rr tie mhi! of i oH-i
("ir artdif'T rrtaLale-L 'j1. If t--y Mt tle fhurch be cf-uid J
tie eaeKj WifJ aui&t t&iia tha to t.brri."
KILLED WIFE WITH AXE.
William Wilson Then Took His Own Life
By Hanging.
Houlton. Me.. Jan. iV After lillins
bis wife by striking Imt with an axe.
William ilon. a farmer living on the
lioundary near here, went to hia harn
and tixk Ins life by hanging himelf
with a mpe, some time yesterday. Neigh
bora !at yesterday afternoon found
ihrW boi'ies.
W i!on kad tw-en in r"r health for
errraf T?!Orith an,5 tli i be'..-.l to
bae t-n ts notive f. tlo cTiirtr-.
Tha mrnl Iiu of le ! m.! cat.l
yesterday morning. He had been ill
with the grippe for some days, and a
physician stated that the act was prob
ably due to acute insanity. Mr. Aines'
long absence from the house let to the
finding of the lsdy. ISesidea hi par
ent the young man lea vet three broth
er. William. Clifford and Alfred. He
lived with his parents on what i
known a the George Walker farm near
the station.
he remained for 20 years. He afso
served as town liquor agent for sev
eral years.
Mr. Russell leave no relatives. He
was a member of Center lodge, Daven
port chapter, and Killington comman
der)-, No. 6, Knights lempfar,
Soul." Miss Mary Walker playing the
organ accompaniment.
A letter from President L. S. Murlin
of Boston university to the parents of
the deceased was read at the church
services and remarks were made by the
pastor. There was a very representative
cathering of the young man's acquain
tance, including a representation from
the atllffpnt ImhIv in tliA itfiii-oraiti' u ln.r
While Fighting Flames in Detroit Dmg w,s enrolled." A number of fine floral
token included tribute from the faculty
at Boston university, the basketball
100 FIREMEN OVERCOME $
PRESIDENT AT PITTSBURG.
Arrived There To-day to Make First
Preparedness Speed;.
PiUsi nrg. Jan. 2 - rresi.1, nf W iln
arrne-v hrre t Sv to n akc hi first
ftiwwviof mi. ! d ftM t.jur in faor
that both Lai been dead wverU lrur. vt ' tatu'csl rrrparlnca.
Store.
Detroit, MihM Jan. 29. More than
lix) liremen were overcome by smoke and
gas fumes yesterday while fighting the
most stubborn blaze IVtroit has had in
15 years. The drug store of E. C Kin
el at Griswold and Michigan aienHc, in
the heart of the business district, was
burned out. Several concerns, including
a large dental establishment above the
drug store, were readied by fire and wa
ter. The toal damage waa about $2ixi,
Oiai. practically covered by insurance.
Explosion of chemical which were
heated were believed to have cnux-d the
fire. Great clouds of poisonous smoke
poured from the building. A theatre
across the street was concerted into a
hospital and dozen of firemen rsrivrd
temporary treatment there.
A great crowd pakrd the street and
for a time traffi.- wa enmpktrtr bilked.
rerl wonwn faint-d in the -ni'li and
i,Ii.-e were forced to hartre the iro I
born Ellen Hancock in Bath, England,
Aug. 15. 1S3", and was therefore past
years old. She waa a daughter of Thom
as and Jane Hancock. Her husband'
death occurred in England around 47
years ago. Mrs. Osborne came to Amer
ica from England 12 years ago and had
since resided in this city.
Funeral services will be held at 4 War
ren street Monday afternoon at 4 o'clock.
Rev. E. F. Newell, pastor of the Hed
dintr Methodist church, will lie thp offi
ciating clergyman and'interment will he
made in Klmwood cemetery.
team, student and member of the Tufts
'19 basketball team.
The bearer were F. C. Marshall and
D. A. Barney, students at Boston univer
sity. Leslie Mi Kenzie of Waverly, Mass..
Havid Stuart, (ieorge F. Mackay and
George C. Ad;e. Interment was made
in Elmwood cemetery.
THREE RACES ON PROGRAM.
For Horse Raring on Ice at Montpelier
To-day.
Ice racinir for horse wa resumed on
tf.e Winoo-li ri'er at M-mtpchcr thi
aftmo..n after a suspension due to the
mil l weather whkh made the cour.- un
suitable. There were three ri-c on
the iUv'ii program. Waller (hi of Do.
ir. . .. a rand ciri-iiit, dnrr. wa
h.lnWd to drive Mavor IV'u'w. U's
TO MANUFACTURE HANDKERCHIEFS
Corporation Formed with Orleans at
Place of Business.
Article of association have been tileff
with the secretary of state by the fol
lowing corporation: K. W. Eldridgr.
Inc to manufacture handkerchief and
other merchandise and to carry on a
pi-neral mercantile business, with ca:,it!
stock of $.'.-. divided into 250 sliare
with the principal place of business at
Oil. an. The incorporator- are R. W.
Eldridgo and W. .1. Eldridre and J. O.
Tiirnbull. all of Orleans.
aliirtgford (lub. Inc., for maintain
ing rlulirooma for hoy s-out and t
carry on playground and other idea
apertaining to the welfare of the com
munity, tlie children in particular, at
Wallmirford. without rapital stork.
1 iw-re are five si;l-r!-r a fo'ws;
sevrral times before a rruiBnt danger laron A.
tone waa eetabUshed. Iutti
O. R. Ifmv'.toB. Arthur f. fJnff.n WA-
5tr. t ox is a guest of Mavor 1 1 A. Ii. P. R, Brag and W. f,
11 ? r, all of Wal;rjfOTi.
