THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day ; to-morrow increasing cloud
iness and warmer; easterly winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 74; lowest, 58.
Detailed weather, mall und murine reports on page 8.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 11.
f-f
NEW YORK, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1916 . Copyright, 1918, by the Sun Printing and Publithing Aftodation.
ONE CENT
In flrrater New atk, I lll.rnhrr
Jersey City anil .Smirk. I TMO ( IAT.
GERMANS mRUMANIA LED
SILISTRIA FORT
ON THE DANUBE
Second Kunituiiuii Fortress i
Falls to Army Operating
With the liulgnrs.
VAIIXA EVACUATED
AS RUSSIANS NEAR
Can's Cavalry Reported Al
ready to Re on the Bor
der of Bulgaria.
AUSTRIAN'S RETREAT
IN BAN AT PROVINCE
Kaiser's 3Ien Said to Be in
Contact With Army In
vading Bukowina.
I.omk.v, Sept. 10. Sillstrla, the sec
ond ltumanlan fortress in the Dob
luilja, has fallen to tho Germans and
Bulgarians, fays an oltlciul German
statement received here. Unofficial
rfespatchos (-ay that tho Bulgarians are
evacuating Varna, their great Hlack
Sea port and fortress, and that north
'f Varna Russian cavalry already Is on
ihc Bulgarian border.
The town nnd fortress of Sillstila are
ri the Danube. twcnt)-flvo miles north
of Tiitrakan. which the Teutons took on
Thursday. Jt Is sixty miles southeast of
liiiiharest. the ltumanlan capital. The
tn Itself has about 1J.000 Inhabitant.
No statement Is made in the German an-
letincrnirnt of the number nf nrlinnni. I
It Is brief a follows-
"Sillstrla ha fallen. The ltumanlan? 1
rrti uu'Hans during the last few days
srpear to have suffered very constder
slils losses. On the Macedonian front
thtre was no Incident of Importance."
.First Xetra of Attack.
There had been no previous Intimation
tliat SllUtrla was seriously threatened.
RuUars, announced only yesterday
tiny hail reached AlUt.ir, ten miles
iputheast of Sillstrla. There has lieen
I o announcement from any r utiree of an
at'.i' 1: upon the ring of fortr with which
' i Itumanlans had protected the town.
Meantime, according to despatches
fioin 1'etrograd and Odessa, the Russians
nl Rumanians are making advances In
fM.ru Dobrudja more Important
t.glc.illy than tho more spectacular ad-
J.uicc of the Hermans and Hu'gars, who ' ltumanlan diplomats lied to' mo ron
huc Just taken Tutrakan and Sillstrla Utnntlv. Towani ih if..., ihu ni,-.
in wtstern Dobrudja.
A Iteuter despatch from I'etrograd
ttc uMi i.u-m.iii cavairy nas uccupien i
i eve nil points on the Hulgar-Kumanlan
frontur. A Beml-oinclal news agency
despatch from Odessa says the Bulgars
arc evacuating Varna, their principal
JUack Sea iort, ten miles south of the
louthern border of the Dobrudja.
Tcotons Are Threatened.
Tf these despatches aro correct then
ri German anil Hulgar army that has
taken Hlllstrla Is already In a threatened
position. The Itusslan army Is pushing
lack tho advance of their right wing
In tho eastern Dobrudja so far that al
leaily the Invaders have been driven
Nek across the border north of Varna.
It was announced jestcrday that Do
brlc. in ltumanla, ten miles north of the
border, had been recaptured from the
ll'jlsar. and the advance there will serl
ciMy threaten th Germans and Hulgars
nt Sillstrla If thev do nut retire hur
!r'lly. The peril In which tho Hulgars
eist of them find themselves Is shown by
t!in reports of the evacuation of Varna.
From Sillstrla the Germans are not
In so good a position for a drive at
T!uchatbt an from Tutrakan. The dis
tance is longer and the advance hln-
iWed by the Halta marshes on the ltu
manlan thore of the Danube, Tho cap.
ture nf Sillstrla, however, shows that
the Teutons aro only forty-five miles
from tho railroad from Constanza, the
J'.tmanlan Hlack Sea port, to Ccrna
0'la. Tho Russians arc now using this
road, landing troops at Constanza, as Is
shown by to-day's German statement,
which says German aeroplanes bom
bariled Constanza and Russian ships In
the harbor, evidently transports.
Austrian Falling Rack.
The ltumanlan advance on tho north-ein-rn
front still goes on, and In tho
Hungarian province of the Hanat, about
Opuwi, tho Austrian right wing has been
"Hnpi e( to withdraw nfter an attack,
1' W now on the I'ctroseny-Hatseg load,
Th" Itumanlans uro halted at the heights
'ot of Cslk Sereda. but ill tho Huko
li , near Dorna Watra, the Germans
i' In cnutact with ltumanlan troops,
A belated Bulgarian official statement
rrevtd here to-day telln of a successful
"'lv.iric In the Dobrudja somo days ago.
The Huniuninn garrison of Sillstrla tried
to help the Itumanlans who surrendered,
it Tutrakan, but wero driven back by
he liuluars, the statement says, nt the
Mll.i.c of Sarsanlar, about twclvo miles
i-outlieast of Tutrakan, und retreated to
MllHrla with losses.
f)n Keptemlier 7, after a three days
atile, the Hulgars say, they beat Hus
ians and Itumanlans near Dobrlo (Ha
ardjlk). The numanlan War Office an
jounced September 9 that Dobrlc had
been retaken.
Report la Mratlfrlna;.
Tho Bulgarian statement says that a
nusso-Serblan division" was In this
lighting, n not known here how
Herblana may have got to Ilussla. ai all
the remnant of the Berblan army van
supposed to be In Macedonia.
Three Hulgarlan fortified cities on the
southern bank of the Danube were
bombarded by Rumanian artillery to
ray and are In flames. These are Wldln,
J.ompa !anka and Ilahovo. The Ruma
nians from the northern bank fired their
Mg guns across the river.
The official Bulgarian report of Sep
tember 7, which announces the oipturo of
the Rumanian fortress nf Tutrakan after
Ihtre days of violent flfhtiiui, gives the
.u.i.iAing aaamonai information ;
'We captured th Thirty-fourth,
CNf tatted ) fMd l-f,i
BY AUSTRIA, SAYS BURIANt
Enemy Gains No Military
Advantage in the Ad
vance, He Asserts.
DUAL MONARCHY
t6 lose no land i
Will Emerge Victorious
From War Without Beg-
ging for Peace. 1
Vienna, Sept, 7, via Berlin to l-ondon. ,
fept. 10. "Austria-Hungary Is far from
, lying down, ns hoped by some," said I
' Ilaron Stephen llurlnn von llajccz, tho I
Austro-Hungarlan Foreign Minister, to-
Jay In discussing tho position of the ,
Dual Monarchy In the world war. "It Is ,
true we would hall peaco with Joy, but
not the sort of peace our enemies would '
Impose.
"So lon.7 as wo have to defend our
selves against those who want to take
part of our territory, we naturally nrc
unwllllrg to discuss peace; so long wo
aro also determined to hold out and win.
The thought that we are eager for peaco
on any terms originates probably tn
minds hoping thut such will become tho
Ilaron liurlan said the Dual Monarchy's
position had been erroneously character
lied by enemies nnd certain neutrals as
unsatisfactory. The Minister then re
viewed the situation prior to Rumania's
declaration of war, nnd continued:
"Wo offered Ilumanla no territorial
concessions at any time after having dis
covered, In tho case of Italy, that tho
world was likely to mistake our icason-i
ublo attitude for weakness. Nor were!
we ever taken by surprise by ltumanla. i
What did
tool us was mat uum.inia , ,
made up her mind so (illicitly
, niilelilc.
lt,A. In 1... ... ........ , n a . . . I In
nf ih. i.i..t ii,i, rfr.n,.u.. fi..i
Itrutlano libs . llumani-iTi
uratiano uite Kuniamaii (
Rome nnd
1 '" .. i.
rrcm!r)
'" nlM "new that Rumania was nut
qul,c rcadr towari1 ,llc cnd ' Ausust. j
Prepared for Oualauarht.
"For all that, our military authorities
mado all possible preparations, which
did not consist, us has been bellexcd, in
holding thi mountain summits and
passes along the ltumanlan border, but
which consisted In tho establishment of
tho line of defence now occupied by our
troops.
"Contrary to tho general Impression,
the falling back nf our troops has been
of no advantage to the ltumanlan, which
fart has finally dawned on the Htimnulau
military commanders, since they lunc re
cently become ery cautious.
"The mllltnrf nM Id iia, ..... .I.n.rl.
btra-iment. 1 know that ltumanla's action
was no surprise despite the fact that the
nce became too ferent and their lying
too patently obvious; so I reached the
conclusion that trouble was. not far off,
"Whether the declaration of war was
due on Sunday or Tuesday I did not
know. Hut I felt It was due, because In
addition the reports from Bucharest Indi
cated that the Russian pressure was
getting more severe each day, the Kn
tvnte Governments wanting to add to the
weight of their own futile offensives In
the east and west and Salonica the great
Impression the war declaration was ex
pected to make, but did in reality not
make bceauso we weio ready for It.
Praise for Bratlano.
"I will say that Hratlano played n
good game, though. When the ICntente
finally had shown all Its cards Bratlano
stiffened up 111 his own demands, which'
were granted fully some tlmo before the
outbreak of the war. I
"Then Hratlano thought he would play 1
the part of taking from the Austro-Hun-
gartan corpse what he could. Hut the
Kntentc had Its own notions, which
Hratlano learned when lie was told that
ho was mistaken if he thought his. role
was merely taking pennies from u dead1
man.
"Me was Instructed to start Immedi
ately, for only in helping to down the
Central Towers could he hope to- gain
what he wanted. The declaration of
war was therefore transmitted.
"Well, Rumania will havo a good
chance to rue her bargain. If I am not
mistaken. The fact Is we nre rnr from
completely dead, as some think."
As to the monarchy'H military and
economic stutus at this moment the Mln-
BOBBERS PITY THIS VICTIM.
Hetara far, to llnsbnnd of Invalid
Woman In Car.
Camdriimju, Mass., Sept. 10, A holdup
of an automobllo nnd Its occupants here
lust night by two masked and armed
men was marked by unusual circum
stances, according to tho story told to
the police by W. Stewart Orlscom of
Philadelphia.
Mr. Orlscom said that after he had
given the highwaymen his purse, contain
ing $50, they began to quarrel over tho
money. He admonished them to bo quiet,
as h! wife, who had been seriously 111,
was n passenger.
One of the robbers suggested that their
victim, with a sick wife on his hands,
would need funds. The other, Orlscom
said, agreed In this, und they turned
back $25 to him. Me said the men then
disappeared, still arguing over the divi
sion of their spoils.
SB. HUCKEI COMING HERE.
Leaves Baltimore Church to
W'arU In Columbia,
Baltimore, Sept 10. Tho Rev. Dr.
Oliver Huckel, pastor of Associate Con
gregational Church, this city and one of
leading ministers of Baltimore, sur
prised his congregation to-day by an
nouncing hlB rrslgatlon, to take effect
October 15, after a pastorate of nineteen
years.
Dr. Huckel will become Identified with
the faculty of Columbia University and
Union Seminary. New York, and will
specialise In religions and the history
and philosophy of religion. He Is a
graduate of the UnlvtrsUy of Psonsrl-
tram, otaag vt mi,
into A trap
zzgsts&i (
Baron Burian, the Austro
Hungarian Foreign Minister,
predicts victory for the Dual
Monarchy.
..
Ister said he had no nnxlcty on that,
Ssre. Hut ho uifUeil .
"Some think uu arc not doing enough,
"
addition to holding tint Italians
CJI
checked we have managed tn render use-1
less llruslloft'n gnat nftensive. wlikli 1
' Hiu-lloft s gnat
""t '"""""V l,u- ''"'" 1'usMan
eoMlcr ,t MuM ,, ,.Mmyr
IIiiI.IIhh. SA'f.t. .
an agate ware water pitcher and ham-
The discussion then lunched mi tnered the keeper until four teeth wir
Amciican.Austrn-llungari.iu fetation, j knocked out and his head was a mass
In the course of which tho cnrresixm- , of cuts. At last they got the keys out of
dent referred to the nolo sent to the, i the man's grasp by tearing his palms.
American Government In connection I This took perhaps two minutes,
with tho export from the United States
of urms and ammunition. The Huron Little Noise In the Mtrastatle.
sai,'' : , . , I During tho struggle there was as little
It affords mc great pleasure to say na possible. Jackson's efforts to
that the relations between the two Gov- fllolll for lle Wl,rp fruMr.lt,,l by hi nu
eminent are the very best. At the ,.,KUMiAt. and they were mving their
."",:i ' ' "uuM ' breath. The scuffling was not heard by
stl i.dl.no to the uew e.M,re..,e,l , , oor aln .,
' "! '-Mx-lt!;"; large , prisoners In the .letentloni.en
ble. r sent that note so that America
might know our view.
"That the American Government could
not agree to the nntn Is the undeniable
soveielgn right of that nation. Thus the
matter stands. On that subject we mut
always disagree, fo far n my own per
sonal opinion Is conci rued."
The Minister then discussed the gen
eral situation nf the Dual Monarchy,
which he said was very satisfactory. In
of ,,, Let1 Th." rat-inn i
of tho war luiil made demands upon the
nation to which he fminerly would have
thought the countty uneiii.il.
Will Not He I'nrtltliinrd.
"Wo bine the determination," s.ild he,
"In emerge wholo from mis s,id and de.
plorable affair, into which wo weie
fnrreil bv a iirlvnie iiff.ih' vvllh Serlih
and which the l.'ntente criiim made n
I pretext for a general descent upon our-
stives and our allies.
' "Sooner nr later It must dawn nnon I
our enemies that this entire business Is '
useless. Hut I suppose not l.efnie the j
Kngllsh Kitchener army has broken '
moio heads against the steel wall of I
Germans In I rani e or the French have 1 mltted them. Petecttves wero sum
been further decimated, while the litis. inoned, und nln mi ambulance from
slans are dying llku lllea every day In l'nl clinic Hospital. A general iihuni
the Kast. . was sent out for 1'rcderlcks and Merman.
Hut a ray nf lutelllgenie must break j
some time, which 1 hopo will be soon,
f ... tw. .ul. ..f r.U ... ...L'l.i.l T. LIT
' day conies our enemies will always find
us willing tn do nur best to defeat their
evil plans. There may be sonic who say
that for military reasons we ought to
be the llrst to start peace overtures.
"I do not think so, as long ns our an
tagonists spent: of the partition of nur
country among themselves. Wo have
defended our soil pretty well so far, and
will do It longer long enough to mako
the others tlted of It, anyway."
BBUSIL0FF SEES YEAR OF WAR.
Russian General Sit Austria Is
NcnrliiK Detent.
I.oNtov, Sept. 11,--Gen. Hrusllnff In
nu Interview w ith Hie cut respondent of
tho Daily Chrunkte at tho Russian front
predicts the end of the war by August
next.
"The Auslro-Huns'iirlnii mmy. assailed
from nil sides," ho said, "won't be able
to stand much longer beforo the hordes
of enemies who aro hurling themselves
ngnlnst it nnn preparing to Increase the
vigor of their blows. Tho intervention
nf Rumania Is an event of tho llrst order,
I am no prophet : the future Is In God's
hands, Hut If I had to make a predic
tion I should be Inclined to think that
the month of August. 1917, might sen tho
end of our memorable work.
'"Tho present war Is one which It Is
Impossible for the Allies to lose, allhniiirli
a great deal remains to bo accomplished.
A successful result Is already In our
grasp."
HURLS A BOMB TO GAIN QUIET.
Wounded Ilx-Soldler Kills il, In
jures IS Civilians In (ilnsifoiv.
Glahiow, Sept. 10, Jtimo.s O'Har.t, n
wounded and discharged soldier, learned
tho nrt of bomb throwing at tho, front
and grew callous In regard to thu re
sults, Karly to-day a riowd of men and
women In tbo rear of his tenement be
camo nolny. O'llara asked for quiet
and when he tecclved a derisive reply
hurled a hand gienndo Into tho crowd.
One man and n girl of a years wero
killed and a dozen other persons were
wounded.
When O'llara was arrested It was dls
roverta Jie had In his possession a auan-
itKy M ammunition,
'FOUR BREAK JAIL BY i
BLINDING A KEEPER
Cayenne Pepper Thrown Into
Attendant's Eyes nt West
Side Prison.
POLICE ItKCAl'TUJtE TWO
1(5 Other Prisoners Itemnim
Xcntrnl AVhcn the Cell
Unttlo. Takes Plaeo.
William Jackson, keeper In chnrge of
the ground floor of the West Side prison
attached to tho Seventh District Court.
I was called to the gato at S :30 o'clock
I last night by a young man who asked
to have a package delivered to William ,
Howes of 44.1 West Forty-first street,
held In the detention pen on a charge ,
of having narcotics In his possesion.
Assuring himself that the package
contained nothing but fruit, Jackson
went to tho cell door, opened It a little'
and called: !
"Package for you, Howes."
Howes slouched forward, reaching for 1
the package with his left hand. Three
other prisoners aro?o In the rear of the
pen and moved toward tho grating. He-I
fore Jackson had time to grasp the slg-1
nlflcance of these movements, Howes
suddenly withdrew his right hand from
his pocket and threw cayenne pepper in j
i the Keeper's eyes, at the same time
adroitly Inserting his foot between the '
door and the Jamb.
No Match for Prisoners, i
Jackson, with tears streaming froi
his burning eyes, tried to slam tho porta'
Hut lie was no match for the four pris
oners, who pushed through Urn opening
nnd hacked tho keeper against tln wall. '
.Then- Howes held him while Charles,
Waller, a negro, of Wist Slxty-tlrst
street, Frederick Herman of tl Amstrr-
dam avenue, both also accused of having
had narcotics in their possession, and
Harold Frederick of Mills Hotel No. 1,
charged with buiglary. assaulted Jack
son and tried to wrest tho Leva from his
hands.
Jackson then nnd for hours afterward
was completely blind. Hut ho hung to
koyiI Kiedcrleks-JacUson thlnki It
.11.- rupj.ci. I'MI Mill Kl.ll , .UIKIli i'
So the four prisoners walked through
the ottlces uninulectcd. unlocking various
cates anil doors ns they wen"., and
reached tlie street.
l'atrolman Huchurio of the WVst
I'orty-seventh street station was on
strike duly In I'lfty-thlrd street. He
saw two men emerge Italics from the
prison. One ran toward Klghth avenue,
the other, a negro, arinss the street.
p-r. ,T.Lwi!tir r1 r 5.
all
the light nut of him with one crock nf
the iilghtsllcU. Il called I'atriilmau
i ray, also on strike duty, and set him
after the other, who, when tripped with
,-, nightstick and arrcitrd, proved to lie
, Hones.
The
.Incksoii Mill at Post.
nilleers took the
men In the
prlron door, and there found .laiksnn.
sightless and badly battered, holding It
shut with his torn bauds, because he had
no keys und he was determined no more
bhould get out without a struggle,
They convinced the half crazed mail
they weie patrolmen by b ttlng htm hear
their sticks on the stones, and ho ad-
It Is believed they left the prison first
und were shrewd enough to walk Instead
of i uu, thus avoiding suspicion.
Tho lime for the escape could not have
been better chosen: the package of fruit
was too large to go through the opening
In the detention pen door, and the bearer
hurried away so that Jackson hardly
remembers what he looked like. There
fore it is believed the plot was elabo
rately conceived. It Is not known how .
Howes got the cayenne pepper. He had
It before tho package of fruit arrived.
PREACHES OF PARTING, DIES.
fiood-n' I. nut Words of Address
to I.nthernn t'onwreuatlon.
Cari.ihi.k. l'a- Sept. 10. Asked to
addicss tho association In the l'lrst
Lutheran Church here, vvhero he served
many scars In Its council, Col. John tl.
ltobb took as his themo the parting of
the Apostle Haul from his friends as
typical of tho ivartlng which con-es to
all friends. Recalling his ubsenre on
leave In the civil war ho alluded to tho
farewell from his aged mother, to whom
his last utterances wero the words
"Good-by."
As tho words fell fiom Col, llobb's
lips his head sank nn his brcat and but
for timely aid he would have fallen. He
died alirost Immediately,
MATT McGRATH INJURED.
Athletic I'ollrrmnn Tails
I'rom
Shipping I'latform.
Mutt McGrath, a champion athlete
and member of tho Police Depaitment,
vviik tnken to Volunteer Hospital last
night suffering slightly from injuries ho
rriclvrd when he fell from n shipping
platform at 38 Spruce street,
It was said ut thn hospital that Mc
Grath sustained a sprained back, minor
contusions ami a possible fractured
spine, An X-ray will be used to-day to
determine the latter Injury. No serious
consequences will result, although the
policeman will bo coniltied for several
weeks, It was nnnnuueed,
I', S. Commission Leave Santos.
Rto jANmiin, Sept. 10, Tho American
Financial and Commercial Commission,
which Is returning u visit mado by I.alln
American business men tn tho United
States last spring, left Santos to-day
for lluenos Ayres. The chairman of
the commission, Dr. Richard P. Strong,
telegraphed to Flnnnon Minister Calo
geras his thanks for the reception
tindtsl the Americans In this country,
LABOR CHIEFS VOTE
GOMPERS' OPPOSITION OVERRIDDEN;
700,000 IN TRADES TO ACT TO-DAY
UNION AND 3D AVE. ITHIRTY TWO HURT ! A. F. of L. Leader Quits Conference
CAR LINES CRIPPLED IN STRIKE DISORDER Before Its Decision After Pledg-
: ing Carmen "Moral and
The Bronx Without u Sinple
Trolley in Sonic Places:
Scarce Everywhere.
NONE OX FIRST AVENUE j
I
New York Railways Keep Up
Half Schedule, hut With-
draw All nt Night.
All branches of the Third Axcniie and
the Union lines were crippled yesterday. ,
Tho New York Railways Company had I
ut different times as many cars In opera-1
tlon us on Saturday, und the average!
number of runs made by the green cars
was from 80 to 73 per cent, of the nor-
mat Sunday t rattle. Soon after nightfall
nil surface cars In The Hronx and Man
hattan were In tho barns.
The subway and elevated systems were
kept humming, and the number of trains
operated In tho daylight hours was In
excess of the usual tratltc on that day of
the week. Had It not been for n collision
between two Third avenue elevated trains
at 161st street, which caused a general
delay on that lino for three-quartets of
nn hour, conditions would have been nor
mal. The situation In The Hronx was the
worst of a Service on Ihc surfaco lines
is needed there on Sundas more than
on other days. After the strike order
went Into effect only setn cars wire,
operated ip to 10 In the morning. Th
t'nlutt system has Cfil cars in scrhc, as
a rule, (in tho Hoston road nnd Morris
l'.irlt line, which has twenty-two cars
only one was running the greater part of
the day,
'n the Wesieiiesler itxenui line uu
two cars out of twenty-sl were going,
On th Tremont axenue line only one out
nf eleven were out. Two out nf u pus- 1
slble six was the score fur the Sedgwick
avenue route, tine ear was run on the
l7lh street croeslown route instead of
seven, the ordinary number. Three cars ,
ran nu tho ClaNjn lVilnUlto. Instead of'
eight and thus, on the Wllllamsbridgc
lino Inrtead of fourteen. !
Lines Mir Thrnnahont Mas.
The peliintii I'arkwav. I'nrt .-YhuMer.
WllhsSivenuc. St. Ann'H avenue, Randall
avenue. I'ordhum and WonilUwn, HMh
street and rnrdhain Heights cars were
idlu tluoii','limit the day and night.
The msth street crnsstown, the .Morris
avenue and the l3d street cars liad'nne
each. On Webster avenuo four cars
were running out of eighteen, and along
Jirnine avenue three out of ten. The
West Mount Vernon line kept two out of
three cars going, and the University ave
nue had three out of five. Tho service In
?"7th street, Until street and Oirdcn ave
nue and nu the Bronx and Van ("nrt
landt lines were equilly unsatisfactory.
Not more than thirty-seven cars were
operated out of a possible on the
whole I'nl'in system In The Bronx.
The i.illw.iy oHWnl.s did their best to
rush tilke breakers to the more Impor
tant barns, but few were to ,n nhtalned.
Two trui'klo.uls ,if cms and nnlfoinis
were sent to the bams. The men who
came to occupy the miih Mn( the cots
were guarded by patrolmen In uniform.
Tho best the Third Avenue l nes could
do yesterday on the first day of their
strike was to run thirty out of .'i0S cats.
The Grand street line with twenty ears
on hand, the Post ottlce and Itronklvu
bne with fourteen, the Avenue B line
with twelve, the Kast Belt with llfteen,
the Manhattan Bridge line with for'y.
the West Belt with t w ent.v-llve, the
lIMIi street and Broadway, the Fort I.eo
ferry system with twelve and the Broad
way and Tenth uv. tuie line with twenty
four cars, all icmalned tit u standstill.
Only M'irn Out of Forty Ved.
On the l'orty.secon.l street crosstown
line they could manage only seven out
of forty at the best period of the day
The Tenth avenue line ran one nr tvvo
out of twenty-three and the Fifty. ninth
street crnsstown the out of thirty-eight.
Thn Thlr.l and Amsterdam avenue
linn usually has IS I curs available, but
only ten wero run at any one time. The
U'Sth street crnsstown line, which has
els'ht cars, stopped at three in the
morning, ran one or three through the
day, and quit at night. At one time
yesterday only eight out of the f.03 cars
on the Third Avenue system wero in use.
Nona nf the sixty cars belonging to
Ihc First avenue system was In opera
tion yesterday. Tho Second avenue ofll
rials, by getting a fleet of taxlcabs tn.
gether, gathered up enough men to run
from two to nineteen cars nut of n total
of flfly-tlve.
John Beaver, receiver for the Second
avenue, said that h" was using regulars
for this work,
"We expect n great many of our em
ployees to icport to-morrow," said
Heaver, "Wo made no prcpaiatlmiH for
a strike, not having anticipated it. I do
not believe It will be necessary tn use
strike breakers,"
The New York Railways Company
had 22 green cars going at s o'clock
yesterday morning, 21.1 at 10 o'rlncl:,
1!0 at noon, 214 nt 2 o'clock nnd 2.13 at
4, In Manhattan there Is not the same
need for surface cars on Sunday as there
Is on weekdays, rind In this respect the
situation was better than In Thn Hronx,
wlieto paiks nnd pleasure resorts nro
sought by hundreds of thousands.
Satisfied With Few Cars.
At 7 In the morning, said the railway
ofllclals, there wrrn half as many cars
running In Manhattnn on tho green lines
as on an ordinary Sunday. The Police
Department was Infotmed yesterday
that the New York Railways Company
will not try to operate any more cars
this morning than they hav done since
the strlko opened. The average they have
struck slucn the opening of hostilities Is
from 20 to 23 per cent, of normal. As
President Shont.s nf the Interhornugh
said esterday: "Thein has been no
material change In the situation so far
as It affects the green cars."
Tho subways and elevated lines have
been taking earn ofthn overflow from
the surface lines, said the Interborougli
head, giving out these llgures :
Truttlc Saturday for the elevated, ,
554, uh compared with 814,985 for tho
Continued on Second Page,
(Jirls Arrested for Throwing
Siones nt Cnrs in Madi
son Avenue.
WOMAN' IS BADLY HURT
More Than a Score of Persons
Taken Into Custody by
Police.
Tliltty-two persons were Injured yes
terday and last night on surface or ele
vated trains due to strike conditions.
Mob violence was responsible for some
of the Injuries, and the excitement at
tending a traction strike was tho in
direct cause of the other accidents.
More than a score of persons were nr
tested for expressing their sympathies
with the strikers by stoning cars or In
terfering with tralllc. strike breakers
were gathered In also.
Those who rode yesterday on surface
tors In Manhattan and Tho Bronx, par
ticularly In Madison avenue cars, ran
an excellent chance of being In: by
stones nr bottles. One who was seri
ously Injured In this way was Mrs.
Irina Wlnlck. wife of Pr. Samuel Wlnlck
of 25 Kast 112th street, who was felled
by a stone at 07th street and made un
conscious. She wus taken to her horns
In an automobile, her husband suylng
she had suffered a possible fracture of
inc. skuii.
lilrls Accused as Assailants.
Two oun- women were arrested nnd
locked up In the West 12"d street police
station charged with felonious as.ault
after Mrs. Wlnlck was hurt. The pris
oners were Anna Lauskv. 13 vears old.
and Dora t)rrr, 23, both living at 231
Kat 113th street.
At tho same spot later 111 the evening
another young woman was arrested,
charged with Interfering with the traffic.
She was Fannie Smith, 20 years old, of
.110 Kast 103d sheet. Further up
Madison avenuo a detective, arrested
Max l.lndenauer, 15 years old, after sev
eral cars had been stoned.
Thomas Callahan, a porter, nf 430 t.o
rtt avenue. Thu Bronx, was stabbed In
the back of thn neck, left shoulder and
forearm last night ns ho walked along
Tenth avenne at Fifty-second street
llefoie he was removed to the Polycltnl
Hospital he tnld the police that three
men who mistook him for. a strike
breaker Jumped out ut him from n hall
way. Mntormnn Gets Hrlek Throtrer.
Hugh Friel of 43 Cjuincy street.
Brookl.vn, a inotormaii on a Fourteenth
street car. was struck on the head with a
brick, but do left bis car and ran down
his assailant, whom he turned over to a
policeman.
Several pitroltnen riding on the front
pi it forms of suifaio cars were tnjuied
yesterday and many more had nanow
escapes from mobs. The reserves and
the motor patrols were kept busy
throughout thu day. In Pollen Head
quaiters a report nf violence nr threat
ening was received by telephone about
every llfteen minutes Not until the
surface cars were callfd into the buriiH
lit nightfall did tjic excitement subside
Henry 'Neubcr.er, Miuierly a D.puty
Police Commission r, assisted Patrolman
Itoclie, nu strike duty, to run down a
in.111 who was throwing stones ut car
The Rev. Father Teabllo of 2122
I.a Fontaine avenue. The Bronx, was
riding on a noithboiitid elevated ti.iln
when he was struck on the head with n
stone. Me was taken to Lincoln llos
pltal with a 1 in crated scalp.
Kleven men were arrested In Madison
avenue between l3d and 110th streets,
following a s.vstematle bombardment nf
street cars. When Patrolman Shea, who
was ildlng nn one of the cars, attempted
to break Up the volleys nf stones by
charging the crowd single handed h"
was roughly handled Mn grabbed
Philip Loch nf 20 Kast llltli strett
and kept him a prisoner. It mas neces
sary for Shea to draw his revolver and
lire Into the air before the crowd backed
away from lilm, Ills four shuts bronchi
reenfnrcements, nnd ten other prisoners
wcru guthcred In.
"L' TRAINS CRASH; MANY HURT
Accident Due to Fnllnre to Get
Signal at Curve.
More than a wore nf passengeis wero
Injured yesterday afternoon In a rear
end collision between Iwo northbound
Third avenue elevated trains at tho
lilst street station, A 111.1J01 ity of the
Injuries were from broken glaw, Sev
eral persons vvrir hurled to tins lloor by
the force of the collision.
Poller reseivcit weio called out to
handle the crowds that gathered ut the
itation. Trallle on the elevated was
held up ten or fifteen minutes while
those most seriously hurt got medical
treatment. Four nf thn passengers wero
taken to hospitals, but were sent home
later.
One train. In charge of Mntorman
Maiohl Kramer. 1101 Clay avenue, was
standing at the station. A signal at thn
sharp curve Just bcfinre the station Is
reached Is supposed to prevent tho pns
stblllty of an accident such ns that or
yesterday. Charles Fuller, 509 Kast
161st street, motormau on thn other
train, failed to get tho signal. He saw
the train ahead of him too late to brmu
his train to a stop.
Policemen bound for jdrlkc duty wero
standing on the rear platform of the
stntlonary train and wero most mill)
hurl.
WILSON GOING TO DYING SISTER
President Has Cancelled ill Kn-
Knacmcnls for To-day.
L0N11 RliANCll, N, J Sept. 10, Presl
dent Wilson received word late to-night
that tho condition of his sister, Mm.
Anne Howe, who is critically ill nt New
London, Conn., bus taken 11 turn for the
w orse,
Tho President Immediately cancelled
all engagements for to-morrow und an
nounced he would start for New London
early In the morning. Ho planned to
motor to Now York and go from thcrj
by rail to New T-ondon, leaving New
York probably on the IP, u, train.
GREA TER
Financial
I AIM TO STOP POWER PLANTS
Subway and "L" Service Maintained -Surface
Lines Crippled Shonts Says Demand
Would Cost $5,000,000 More a Year.
Against the advice of Sumuel Gompcrs the chief's of the
big federated labor organizations that control perhaps 700,000
wage earners recommended last night, at their conference in
the Hotel Continental, a general sympathetic strike as the surest
way to force the New York transportation companies to accept
the unionizing of their employees.
The conference which overrode Mr. Gompers's temperate
suggestions was made up of representatives from the New York
Central Federated Union, the Brooklyn Central Labor Union,
the New York State Federation of Labor and the Amalgamated
Association of Street and Electric Railway Employees.
Recommendation of a sympathetic strike to affect every
trade and activity which could possibly help the striking street
railway men or injure or annoy the street railway lines and
the Interborougli will reach these bodies this morning and they
are expected to act at once.
Unionists Predict General Industrial Tieup.
Whnt they will do is prolilumati
cnl. The lubor chiefs nt the Hotel
Continental last night talked largely
of certain success, insisting that a
few days will sec a general tieup of 1
all sorts of trades, together with al
tremendous expansion of the strike ,
on the t-urfacc lines, in the subway 1
and upon the elevated.
On the other hand, it appears' to'
he the fact that all they really ex-
pect is to paralyze work in the great
power houses that give impetus to
cms and train., and to draw into
the controveis. a very few other
trades actively connected with the
operation of the transportation sys-'
terns in New York, New Hochelle
and Mount Vernon. '
Theodorn P. Shonts, president of the .
lnlerbntniigli and upon whoso shoul
ders ha.s fallen tho task of lighting the
massed forces, of labor unionism,
seemed neither surprised nor down
cast at the news from the labor war
conference at the Continental,
Mr. Shonts says In so many vvordw
that the tight might as well cony now
as later; that It is ridiculous, tn mako
any further contracts with men who
cynically break every agreement; that
tho whole labor union drive against the
street ear svstcm.s Is not for the pur-!
pose of bettering wages or conditions
but to enforce unionism an the closed
shop upon the Urns, and tills ho and
his directors will not tolerate.
"iiImviij anil "I." I'rnlns Hun Freely
The outcome of the sensatlnr.il con
fen nee at the Hotel Continental fol
lowed u day in which it could not be
accurately said thai the Amalgamated
Association made mm 11 piogirss in Its
snuggle in strip subway or elevated of
regulir and experienced emplovees.
Although pickets labored shiewdly
and every suit nf Influence I.Mr. Shonts
row chaise that threats to murder
were widely made und has offered a ie.
waul of ?2fnl for information In ever)
sui h ease I bus been brought to hear, the
subvv iy and elevated employers) stuck
to their Jobs. The down III the earth and
thn up 111 the air ttaln.t ran consistently
to schedule and there appeared In bo no
appreciable slacking up of service
The strlket.' fated belter in the sur
face Hue situation. Up In The Bronx
matters weie distinctly bad. Thn sui
faco lines weie crippled A few ojih
crawled Irregularly and quit eatly In
Manhattan about one car of the usual
live was In operation In the daylight
hours The "gieen car'' lines maintained
peih.iks a ,10 per cent, service
As regards this whole situation, the
Interborougli and surface far linn olll
rials professed satisfaction and optim
ism, Insisting that the strike has petned
out and that th" conditions will grow
better Instead of wori'e.
W.th the strike meiely marking time,
Inleiest lentred, therefore. Hi the sympa
thetic stlike till rat mid the general labor
conferenco at the Hotel Continental
Gnnipers's Attitude Astonishes,
There was astonishment when, after
the conference ended at 0 ;30 P, M., it
was found that the htatenunt IssumJ by
Pamne! (lumpers contained no recom
mendation for a s) nip.ithellc strike nr
any note of approval of a general valk
tin. and th-t the separate statement
sued by Hugh Fray tie. chairman o( tho
conference committee, dtilnltely and dis
tinctly called tor a sympathetic sttik"
and 1. 1II1 n to imitulo even a compllmiii
tary relet ence to Mr. (lompers, who hid
been inv.ted here especially to help th;
li.ral unlo'i men solve their problem.
There weie superficial Indications of
friction, hints that thn conference hail
ind been peaceful, ruiiwrs that Mr. Com
pers had bfl the meeting In nnger
after doing what ho considered was hH
.liitv. imnt'ovhur nf thn strlka nrlncliile
I but promising only the "moral support
and financial assistance or lauor,
Thn tension was so marked after the
meeting bioko up that the labor leaders,
Mr. Fraynr und William H. Fltrgerabl.
general organizer fur tho Amalgamated
and director of the strlko on surface
lines, subway and elevated, rsenter any
questions ns to what Mr. (lonipers's at
titude hud been.
They characterized all such questions
as unfair and Impertinent. They nnd
their associates threw back their shoul
ders In asserting that this was a loc-tl
situation und that Mr. CJompers had no
powet whatever. '
Mr, uompers nimseu uecunca o a ay
STRIKE;
Support."
an tiling veh.itevei, mi rely handing out
as lie mi't th- conference at 7;.in P. M.,
or two Imuts before the sympathetic
strike recommendation was Issued, the
mowing statement :
"A conference consisting of thn officers
of the New York Central Federated
Union, Brooklyn Central Labor Union,
tho president of tho New York State
Federation of Labor, representatives of
the American Federation of Labor and
tho officers of the Amalgamated Asso
ciation of Stieet and Klectrlo Railway
Ihnployeos nf America met In the Con
tinental Motel for thn puipom of con
sidering the Mltltnflnn I ...t ... .1...
.,,."1" ... iiiu
-.Torts made by the officer nf the Inter
borougli Rapid Transit Company, the
New York Hallways I'nmp.iii.v. the Third
Avenue Railroad Company and thu Sec
ond Avenue Railroad i'omp.i".v to crush
out the spirit of organization among the
emplojees of the lallroails and the strike,
or more properly spiaklng. the lockout.
Inaugurated against the in n.
"There am moio than 12.0011 men who
havo irfu-ed to submit In the lallroad
companies" dictation and are leaving the
service hourly until tln ie aro few cars
and trains now In operation. From thn
standpoint of th,. tilke. or lockout, the
situation is well In baud. The spirit of
the men Is of the best and thev aro de
tcrinlncd to exercise their right to or
ganize, the right to strive rationally nnd
normally for the Improvement of ihelr
condition as employees nf the rom.
panles and to haw submitted to .1 board
r arbitration such matins which the
committees nf the . ,.,..1. ...... ..
....,.,.-.,1, .mn me
representatives of the romp.iniei, fall to
ill Jllfr tt
I'leilitr Moral nnd Flnnnclnl Aid.
"The conferenee, icpre., ntins the or
Can .fd wage earners m l!'..,ter New
Inik and Mclnlt.v. on beinlf of n,em.
selves and those tn rr fP, .)U.,,,
to t he Milkmg M,ec. railvv.,, men their
unillvid.d moi.u and Una.. I..I support
worker-, union or nou-unloi, to render
he!,- moral and iluamiai Vuppor ,
he contesting str.et i.,i!wnv ,,1,1; that
the gi eat rank and ill- of th.. workers
or Oi eater New York and VKinitv will
dr. nothing directly or li,.ler.y th.lt will
? . . r''ln;lv n,'l'a In their
trrort to defeat the men ,,n, cni.-h Hi
spirit of the wmkers, tfi.tt thu confer,
once calls upon u. otll,vis f ths
govirmrent of New Y.uk to irsist upon
the speed.' prrfoimance n.ved to the
city and the people th f th,,, the
people of the city of N, iv Yolk, though
inconvenienced, are appealed to to re
fraiu from patronizing tue .,,is and
nil roads Involved l t,.s prwent con
test until the companies ,,Klr t ,.,,
m an adjustment of the pir.ent cntro
versy with mutual honor and advantage
"This Is the position which I suurtllv
indorse. Son 1:1, ibivnrcs," '
.or. v.ompers had p.irti.ip.iti .1
discussion tin .in it,., .a..... .1
11 the
1MII1II I 1 1 I "
1 ontlnenlal for about three limits
of the
Me
U.llt come from lt.itn .1 .it..
In
utilise! and adv 1,11 I'm I . .. I I ,I...h ..i.rr-
, , . " "i lie-is
I hey l.ud said that tn.y would icgard
him as the chief figure ;,nd hade" n
the meeting and lli.it i,ie outcome of tll
conference would n ,t In his hand'
He had bfeu speiklng In New 1,'tiglnni'
for President Wilson , , unived
from Boston at about ( P. M Win e h
came dnwnMalrs he serin, d prrtuibed
and rather excited nnd waved n-,y at
Inquiries for details of t . mot nc'and
for an expansion of Ins own point of
view. He did nut icturr.
Action TaLen Without (inmperi.
The conference nmtinucd tor to
hours mure and t was In tn.vt additional
poi Ind, and without Onnip. if, that It le.
elded to leconiu.einl ,1 sympathetic
strike, .t r::m p m uugi, rrAinn
gave out the following stati niriit:
"At a rnnfeicnre held nt the Contl.
uentiil Motel this afternoon tn deviss
ways and means of assisting the striking
street car men of New Yolk tepiesenta
tlvrn of the following organization wers
present: The Ciutral Federated Union
of ilrcater New Yoi l the Central Labor
Union of Brooklyn, New Yoik Statu Fed
eration of Labor, the Anieilcan Federa
tion of Labor and tlm Amalgamated As.
soclatlon of Sheet ami electric lliiilwav
Kmplo)ecs of America.
"L'ach of the representatives present
said ho voiced the sentiments of hb or
ganization when he declared that the men
and women of the oigaulzed labor move
incnt nf New Yolk vvrio ready to la
down their tools II neces-ai-v to ussine
thn street car workers tlm right to 01
gatilzn for the Improvement of their con
ditlons.
"After thorough disrus ( ml it
eration the folloV lug wai a ! ucl
"We recommend to thn n rjii '
of Qreator New XorU and vie. tut; - wi
