r
NIGHT
EXTRA
TFTNANGI AL EDTTION
Humttnj
VOL. n. NO. 310
iMthntt
RUSSIANS AIM
TO FLANK FOE
IN DOBRUDJA
Rumanians and Allies Se
. lect Ground on Which to
Meet Foe
BESUME BUKOWINA DRIVE
ft British Strike on Salonica Front
as Allies Hit in
North
BERLIN, Sept. 11. Lois of advanced
' trenches to the British between Ginchy
lnd Comblcs In a furious battle was ad-
ti ' mittcd by the War Office this afternoon.
Fighting for possession of the village
of Ginchy continues.
'
ROME, Sept. 11. A great anti-Allies'
demonstration occurred in Athens while
the English and French Ministers were
in conference with the Greek Cabinet,
iteordlne to dispatches received here to.
diy. A mob, fearing that the Entente
Ministers planned some new move
against King Constantinc, began firing
revolvers and shouting "Long live King
Constantinc!" and "Down with the
Allies!" The conference was adjourned
because of the violent attitude of the
crowds.
LONDON, Sept 11.
Zurich dispatches today confirmed earlier
hi reports that a tremendous battle was devel
oping-In that section of Rumania lying alone
the Black Sea. It Is apparent from this
"news that the Russian and Rumanian com-
$ wanAerm hflrt fnrAfilllv aalantAit 41.A fl-M a
which they will meet the advancing: Bulga
rian and Turkish forces.
The same dispatches brought the slg
ant news that the Russians had resumed
' offensive In Bukowlna and were at
tng the Austrtans alone: their entire
i 4t This was taken as indicative that the
Imanlan advance into Transylvania had
Um successful at every point and that the
RBHlsn army was safe from attack on Its
I' extrmaa left flnnlf nnd .n.iift .m.a.i i.u
Vlfer atalnst the forces defending the passes
wees to the plains of Hungary.
TO1 interest centered upon the cam
fctlfnjn Rumania the military experts to
day exBressecT the onlnlon ihnt mior... ..
"WTarko-TlUlgarlan forces ' in the Black
. 66S region vnnlil train V.-m (... ii.i. i.
pnf- following the announcement ot the
PSBture of TutrnVfln TTifn inima ,.,. ...
JM Wmanlan fortress of Slllstrla, sixty miles'
iwra Bucharest has fallen to the Bul
garians. These enemy successes, the experts point
out, ire Immaterial In view of the fact that
t no point have the Bulgarians succeeded
to passing the Danube River, which serves
as a natural defense for the heart of Ru
mania.
BUCHAREST ADMITS LOSS
OP SILISTRIA: RUSSIANS AIM
TO SURROUND FOE'S ARMY
BUCHAREST. Sept 11. The Rumanian
jvar Office today admitted that Slllstrla, an
iaiportartt Danube fortress, had been aban-
( dosed to the Bulgarians. Th nnm.nh..
t .retreated In good order after tflo forts had
K n aestroyed by heavy guns.
h t The report says: -
i .-: iitncu wun iweive-i
f Inch anil Tt..n .. . .- ..
; . vii," T -' uu tutu-men guns,
I 5? destroyed the forts In a few
. a no itumanians retired In good
order.
RUSStan troon nr mnivMnw , ..
J Southward nf n.k.i. , .-
rouna. the enemy advancing on the Dan-
nirLAD33LPIIIA, St02sT)AY, SEPTJBaUJER 11, 191G
CortsiosT, 1010, ti tbi rcsuo Lidoz Counitt
QUEBEC BRIDGE SCENE OF ANOTHER DISASTER
nnd i"fsrnflathittVhehaaba BCr",tho St.,Lnwrence River fell as it wa, being putT puS'toda?,'
here. It' hasT b,CnC" .C,h 1". . c- .In. "I nl c !! their lives in L accident'
-"" " wuouucnon several years, its total icngln is iibiiv feet.
MAINE ELECTION
TODAY MAY SHOW
HOW WIND BLOWS
All Political Eyes on State
That May Indicate Na
tion's Feeling
FURIOUS WORD BATTLES
Tickets in Maine Battle
and Past Election Figures
GOVERNOR Carl E. Mllllkcn,
Hep.! Oakley C. Curtis, Dem.
United States Senators Frederick
Hale, Bert M. Fernald, Reps.; Charles
P. Johnson, Kenneth C. M. Sells,
Dems.
First Congressional District Louis B.
Goodall, Rep.j Lamont A. Stevens,
Dem.
Second Congressional District "Wal
lace H. White, Jr., Rep.; D. J. Mc-
Gllllcuddy, Dem.
Third Congressional District John A.
Peters, Rep.; John E. Bunker, Dem.
Fourth Congressional District Ira G.
Hersey, Rep.; Leonard A. Pierce,
Dem. t
In addition, an auditor, a Legisla
ture and county ofllcers are to be
chosen. There Is also to bo a referen
Jum on the "flfty-four-hour bill" reg
ulating the weekly work of women.
Vote for Govemor-ln prevIous"State
elections:
Rep. Dem.
1914 58,863 62,039
1913 71,043 67,748
1910 64,672 73,425
190S 73,728 66,076
18,225 votes cast for Progressive
candidate In 1914.
MID-SPAN FALLS;
MANY LIVES LOST
Linking Section Weighing
5000 Tons Drops Dur
ing Placement
SECOND BIG ACCIDENT
BBITISII BEGIN OFFENSIVE
ON SALONICA FRONT; CROSS
STRUMA DESPITE RESISTANCE
PARIS, Sept 11. The French War Office
Hinounced todav that Ti.l.i.k.. ..-..
akl.. .... " '. v ".. Kij n.
H',-"" lUO OH TIM V A rn (hs TTf.il,..-, -...
If ""Mfei held by the Buisaoans. The of-
If AelAl ataf.M i .-...
t "worn ioiiowb;
Army of the Orient On the Struma, Brlt-
m i troops crossed the river above Orljak,
Slwej- Iho enmv'a fir. . .....i..
L" !ft bank. fl. ,111. .. . ......, .
K. -"- ....op v 4-vovojjen ana
radHkoe, -which the enemy defended
r-"fviMi)y,
'tom the retlon west of the Vardar as
r aa Laka rti.o ... .... . . . .
j. . - uur nruuery oomDaraea
xlan positions, dellvennir an effective
tf.N Upon the h.,i .1 u. .
'- ..w..va m,vi lUV CUCin
f tk!1.1" rport "rther withdrawal of
1 Buljanan advance no.tj.
t. SALON re 1 d.. .. .
hCmt,u M ",,w " capture by the
tZL " f tWO vlIlaSea hW by the BuN
tJ.7r jounced )n an official report
In th iii.MiAM - -ii . .
Mill. r.L.r ",0"n oeroian
tlreinr "T4 VV FUiBanans to re.
f In disorder from some advanced
AUGUSTA, Me., Sept. 11. Maine today
Is exercising her proud privilege of exhibit
ing: a possible line on the nation's feeling
as to Democracy and Republicanism. The
voters are casting ballots for complete
State tickets and national primary tickets,
after probably the greatest preliminary
overtures of oratory that has ever preceded
a Maine election.
Early word from all sections Indicated
fair weather, and local leaders predicted a
record vote.
"I am entirely satisfied with the sltua.
tlon," remarked William E. Pattangal, cam
paign chairman for the Democrats. "I hold
to the prediction I made yesterday of a
Democratlo victory."
"An unusually big vote may be expected,"
countered Frank J. Ham, Republican cam
paign leader, "and we will win."
CONFLICTING CLAIMS
Privately, the Republican leaders are
claiming from 7000 to 16,000 majority; the
Democrats at least 1000.
The greatest Interest Is being manifested
Continued on Fate Eleren, Column Four
MONTREAL, Sept 11. The central span
of the Quebec bridge, which has been under
construction for many years and which
was to link the Canadian transcontinental
railway systems from Halifax to Vancou
ver, fell today as It was being placed In
position, killing many workmen.
The span, which weighs about five thou
sand tons, was towed to the bridge site
early this morning and was being hoisted
150 feet by specially constructed Jacks and
chains when It fell from a distance of about
fifteen feet into the river.
An estimate by officials of the bridge
building company placed tho death list In
the disaster nt twenty-five.
It Is estimated that there were ninety
men on the bridge at the time the Bpan
cnllAnai1
One of the girders holding the span at the
northern corner first gave way as the huge
mass of steel was being lifted Into position.
Tho remaining1 Jackets hold for a few sec
onds and then gae way, and the span,
with a mighty splash, plunged Into the
channel. As the St. Lawrence River at this
point Is about 200 feet In depth, It Is not
believed traffic will be Impeded.
Arrangements hae been made to send
divers down to ascertain If It will be nos.
slble to raise the span and also find If the
channel has been blocked.
Government'Mlnlsters, eminent engineers
and specially Invited guests from all over
the world were present to witness the feat
of placing the span.
The placing of the central span had been
heralded as one of the greatest engineering
feats of the world, and a commission of ex
perts from Great Britain, Germany and
the United States worked out the plans.
This Is the second catautron' at the
bridge. In 1907 seventy lives w o lost by
the collapse of a portion ot the structure
then under construction. It was following
this calamity that the Canadian Go em
inent called on the most eminent engineers
that could be secured to rebuild and com
plete the structure. Tho contractors were
the St Lawrence Bridge Company.
The bridge was built for the purpose of
shortening the railway Journey across the
continent by about 200 miles. It was to be
used by eight railways, the C. P. R., Orand
Trunk, Delaware and Hudson, Intercolonial,
Quebec Central, Quebeo and Lake St. John,
Quebeo and Saguenay and Canadian North
ern. The principal dimensions of the bridge
are: Length from shore to shore, '3839 feet;
width between buttresses, 1800 feet; length
of central span, 640 feet; height of central
CARS IN NEW YORK
HALTED AS STRIKE
GATHERS IMPETUS
Interborough Affected
Surface Lines Are
Tied Up
as
LABOR GIVES SANCTION
Seven Unions Whose Heads
Urge Strike to Aid Carmen
rpiIE New York unions whoso lcad--1-
ers voted for the sympathy strike,
as announced by Hugh Frayne,
State organizer of the federation,
were :
Longshoremen.
Brewery Workers.
Machinists.
Bartenders.
Moldcrs.
Stage employes.
QUICK NEWS
BRUMBAUGH PREDICTS REPUBLICAN VICTORY IN MAINE
HARIUSBUHQ, Sept. 11. Governor Brumbaugh, Just returned
from a summer bpent In Maine, wheto ho met many of tho political
leaders, pietlictt. that the State will go Republican in touny'a elections
by 10,000 nt least ami piobably 12,000. Tho Governor will not name
a public seivlce commission to fill the vnenncy made by the death or
former Governor Samuel W. rennypneker for somo time. He spoko
In highest terms of tho dead commissioner. Ho would not discuss
possibilities.
GENERAL J. B. ALESIIIRE RETIRED
WASHINaiON, Sept. ll.-MuJoi- Gcncinl James B. Alcbhhc,
Quartctmastcr General of the Aimy, this aftcruouu was ictlrcd ut lilu
own lcqucsl on atcouut of 111 health.
GERMANS REPORT RIOTS IN BUCHAREST
r,i;i"X,tN, Spt. ll. The Koclnlbche Zeltuug rcportn r erlous, anti
war demonstrations In Buchaicst at which lcsolutlons condemning
Itumniila's Joining tho Entente Powers wcro adopted. Tho Lokal
Anzelger publishes dispatches telling of lustiuctlous in that section
of Dobrudja Province still held by the Rumanians.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
Tirst Belmont race, maiden 2-year-olds, purse ?DOO, 5 1-2 fur
louga straight Haifa, 115, Troxlcr, 0 to,0, 7 to 10, 1 to 3,won;
Lch ester, 115, Davics, 10 to 5, even, 1 to 2, becoud; Thst Ballot, 112,
G. Byrne, 15 to 1, G to 1, J3 to 1, thlid. Time, 1.05 1-5. '
Continued on Face Three, Column Three
NEW YORK. Sept. 11 While threats of
a great sympathetic walk-out In all trade
unions. Involving 760,000 workers, hung
over the city today, tho strike of traction
employes made Itself felt In all quarters.
For the Erst tlmo the sen Ice on the subway
and elevated lines of the Interborough Ra
pid Transit Company dropped below normal,
while service on the surface lines Is virtu
ally at a standstill during the early hours.
The traction officials explained the poorer
service on tho subway and elevated as due
to the unprecedented demand caused by
cessation of surface transportation, but the
union leaders say that many of the Inter
borough employes, heretofore loyal to the
company, have Joined the union ranks.
While the traction struggle entered Its
fifth day, all the leading trade unions were
preparing for n strike vote. Hugh Frayne,
State representative of the American Fed
eration of Labor, declared that a general
strike would be on before the end of the
GOMPEItS APPROVES
President Samuel Gompers, of the federa
tion, conferred with prominent labor leaders.
They asserted that the plan of n general
sympathy strike had Gompers's approval,
but he declined to make any statement' until
ho had gone carefully Into the situation.
Indications were that unless some means
of reaching a settlement In the traction
strike were reached It would develop Into
one of the greatest labor conflicts that has
ever taken place. The threats of the trac
tion chiefs to destroy the carmen's union
have aroused all labor In this city.
To prevent this great conflict, It Is under
stood Mayor Mltchel and Chairman Oscar
Straus, of tho Public Service Commission,
are,-working on a plan to force both the
traction employers and employes to BUbmlt
their differences to arbitration. These of
ficials are said to be of the opinion tht both
the men and the companies have violated
U. S. SEEKS FACTS IN ATTACK ON CONSULATE
TnSHINGTON' Scpt 1,,The state Department this afternoon cabled Secre
tary Bliss, of the American Embassy in Paris, to "obtain an explanation" from the
rench Government as to tho wrecking of tho American Consulate at Alexandretta,
Asiatic Turkey, by shells from Allied warships on September 4.
U-BOAT SINKS NORWEGIAN STEAMSHIP
LONDON, Sept. 11. Amsterdam reports state that the German submarine TJ.6
sank the Norwegian steamship Lindborg, but before destroying thp vessel con
fiscated all tho copper, butter, ropes and 'canvas on toard. The British steamship
Lcsle Is also reported sunk.
PRINTERS OF NATION MEET TOMORROW AT SHORE
ATLANTIC CITY, Sept. 11. Special systems of accounting for printing estab
Hshments, to comply with the demands of the Federal Trade Commission, the trend
of modern business toward standardizing and dangers of modern economic policies,
will be topics for the National Printers' Convention, which opens tomorrow nt the
Hotel Traymore. More than one thousand members of the United Typothetao and
Franklin Clubs of America will be In attendance.
EDITOR FIRST TO ENROLL IN HUGHES COLLEGE LEAGUE
NEW YORK, Sept. 11. The Hughes National College League opened Its activ
ities today and tho first man to enroll as a member was James Locke, associate
editor of tho Baltimore News, Yale, 1890. In enrolling, Locke gave his usual party
afllllatlon as independent Democrat.
Continued on Tare Three, Column Two
LEAPS TO AID MOTHER;
THEN BOTH FALL DEAD
Camden Widows, Stricken by
Heart Disease, Dio at Same
Time
Cortlnata on jfrw Two. Column Tw
TOE WEATHER
Vn T vrt a cm
ff PkllnAtlht J ....
, ---- " vicinity
lelOUdtl tnntnhr nvtt T....J .
l .1 --.. .. uup(- not
CHunoa im mia.. ....-. 9
&;; ;''-
,rtU, """"HO DAY
' 5-.M rto.,.. B:lTa.i
J&? :rt1i ttffi Ssfc" is? !-.
BM n '" wnff -w ?,mu
' ii Ts r T W0!! Httt
- I 1U 111 ! 1 I rV A-l ' " l'
Mrs. Rebecca Thomas, 11 years old, and
her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Madeline Thomas,
47 years old, died almost simultaneously
from heart disease today In their home,
697 Ferry avenue, Camden.
The elder Mrs. Thomas gave a gasp of
pain and sank to the floor. The younger
Mrs. Thomas sprang to the aid of her
mother-in-law, and as she reached her side,
gave a little cry aid fell dead across the
body of ihe older woman. After In
vestigating the case Coroner Knight 'gave
the opinion that both women dfed from
heart disease.
Mrs. Rebecca Thomas was the widow of
Benjamin Thomas, a pojlceman, and she
was the sister of former Mayor Jesse Pratt,
of Camden, who committed suicide about
eight years ago. Mrs. Madeline Thomas
was the widow of James Thomas.
p
Grand Jury Foreman Named
Judge Can. In Quarter glons Court,
today appointed W, J I. Thome, no occu
pation, of 1702 Pln street, foreman of the
September Orand Jury. After being1 sworn
and receiving Instructions as to their du
ties, the Jurors were taken to their room
to aet .upon bill ot indictment.
Philadelphia Girl Wh Ir Media
MkHHA, Fft.. W. 11. Sena Frto,
PMUuteUnbUu visitor a,t Um turn of J. x.
tta, ma Of wouuua HWMH , t4y,
BAIL FOR MEN ACCUSED
OF CAUSING DROWNING
Court Severely Rebukes Them
While Liberating Them Pend
ing Grand Jury's Action
Judge Davis . today censured the four
men who are accused of responsibility for
the death of Jennie and Alice Maussner,
sisters, of 1910 Bridge street, Brldesburg,
who were drowned when a canoe, In which
they were riding was upset In the Delaware
on Labor Day. Judge Davis permitted them
temporary liberty under -12000 ball, but
severely lectured the defendants, William
Hafakl, Peter Strutskl, Frank Yanczak and
Stanley Mereckl.
They are charged with dragging the
canoe with a motorboat, upsetting the
lighter craft and making no attempt at
rescue. In holding the men for the Orand
Jury the Court said:
"Some one in the boat willfully and care
lessly, against the protests and objections
of- those in the canoe, Is responsible for the
accident They knew that this was a dan
gerous thing to do, and If done maliciously,
It was dastardly, It was unnecessary to
pull the line, as the occupants of the canoe
had protested against It. It was careless
and a very malicious act on the part of the
defendants, as It resulted In loss of life of
Uiese two persons. After hearing the testi
mony I. will fix the ball In f!000 for each
defendant to await the action of the Orand
Jury."
Tb attorney rKotliig the WtntlinU
nt tfct tfcar wam all rmti -xttittmi mm
SHORE BOSS'S NEPHEW
IS SUED FOR ALIMONY
Commodoro Kuehnle's Hotel
Manager Is Alleged by Wife
to Have Struck Her
aN
Domestic difficulties of Henry Kuehnle,
Jr., nephew of "Boss" Kuehnle and man
ager of the Kuehnle Hotel, owned by the
Atlantic City politician, were revealed to
dav In allmnnv rrnrAinir Inafl,.,. l..
fore Vice Chancellor learning, in Camden.
Neither the defendant nor his pretty wife,
Grace Kuehnle, appeared In court, but pe
titions were filed by both parties and ar
gument was offered by opposing couneel.
A petition for separate maintenance has
been filed by the wife, and pending hearing
on this application the alimony claim was
heard n the court.
Kuehnle Is twenty-six years old and his
wife is twenty-two, They were married In
Egg Harbor In October, 19H, and made
their home n.AtlantIo City.
Mrs. Kuehnle alleges tjiat her husband
struck her In the faco with a magaxlne
and called her names; that he treated
her Inhumanly and boasted that he would
"tit up" all the lawyers In Atlantlo City
In her efforts to free herself from matri.
monlal ties.
He boasted of his "pull." her petition
says, and "lived a fart life." Ha earns' j
a week and Is a member of a wealthy
family, so that he can afford to pay tin
a week, for whloh she Is asking, acoordlair
to the woman's claim. "coorawg
The hueband charges that she refused to
cook .for Mm and that she pr.f.rrwj auto,
mobile rUea wHj other men rather thau
home Ufa. K lUmlu that h. T...Ar
hor, oot ess oooaaioa wtus sJm ut
TEUTON OFFICIALS TO CONFER ON FOOD QUESTION
COPENHAGEN. Sept. 11. According to Berlin advices, the German and Aus
trian Foreign Ministers will shortly confer with the Ministers of Hungary with
reference to tho food question. The food question, according to these reports, Is
causing conrtdemblo anxiety to the Central Powers because the supply which
formerly came from Rumania has been cut off.
138TH ANNIVERSARY OF BRANDYWINE TODAY
Today marks the 138th anniversary of tho battle of the Brandywine, In which
tho Continental army was forced to rptrmt vv nanrsi irnw. n.in.i, .-
The occasion will bo observed by various patriotic societies throughout the State
and by special ceremonies on tho battlefield near Chadd's Kord.
PENROSE AT HOME TO DISCUSS CAMPAIGN PLANS
Senator Penrose has returned to the city from Washington and Is resting at
Lin home. 1331 Snruce street. When rnllert nnnn tr. i.n,ioa .,nii,i i . . .
-- . .. -,'w.. w .......Moa 7vi,tio ,jc jueutiea
fatigue and asked to be excused from an Interview until late today. Tho Senator
will remain in this city until Wednesday to discuss campaign plans with Repub
lican leaders from various parts of the State.
GIFFORD PINCHOT SUPPORTS HUGHES CANDIDACY
Gifford Plnchot, leading Progressive, In a statement Issued today, assails Prcsl
dent Wilson's policies and declares he Is out for Hughes. "I cannot vote for Wilson
because I cannot trust him," Mr. Plnchot declares. -"He does not do what he sayB.
Hughes does. Therefore my choice Is Hughes and I shall vote and work for him."
22,000 VOLTS OF ELECTRICITY BURN MAN TO CRISP
Twenty-two thousand volts of electricity shot through the body of George
Cooper, twenty-two years old, of 1326 South 66th street, when his hand accidently
came In contact with a switch in the power house of the Pennsylvania Itailroad
Thlrty.-secbnd and Market streets, killing him instantly and burning his body to a
crisp. 'Cooper's body was found by fellow workmen. He was a graduate of the
Philadelphia Trade School and had been working for the railroad for a year.
PRICE OF POTATOES DOUBLES WITHIN YEAR
The price of potatoes has risen until today it has reached the highest
mark In years. They cost twice as much a bushel as they did a year ago. This time
last year a wholesale dealer paid fifty or sixty cents a bushel. He Is iwylng from
$1.20 to ).S0 a bushel wholesale now. Tarmera are selling them for a dollar &
bushel In the field.
NIGHT
EXTRA
PBICE ONE CENT
DEMAND LAW
TO CRUSH OUT
"DOPE" EVILS
Committee of Citizens Advo
cates Legislation by
State
IS LIKE HARRISON ACT
Defects in Federal Statute Rem
edied in Proposed
Measure
ITALIAN BLACKLIST IN COURSE OF PREPARATION
LONDON, Sept. 11. Italy Is compiling a blacklist of firms In neutral countries
which "are In close business relations with enemy countries, according to a Home
dispatch,
DEAD AT MOUNTAIN FOOT
Man Probably Robbed and Murdered
Near Pottsvllla
PQTTSVILI.13. Pa-. Sept 11. The body
of William Paul, of Kaska, was found to
day at the foot of the mountain, near that
place.
A bullet wound In hts arm and another
ih his temple and his pockets turned inside
out lead the police o beliee he was mur
dorea and then robbed. He'had boon to this
city calling on Mrs. Julia parrel, whom he
ws to w4 on the lth Instant, early In
is oveww, won mur a trolley oar
Wf MS news, iwuvo mum
ESTATE GOES TO CHAMTY
Isabel! Ireland Gives Most of 5000 to
Four Institutions
The entire estate of Isabell Ireland,
amounting to 5000, Is devicd In four
public bequests, with the exception of (too
for the upkeep of a burial plot, under the
terms of her will, which was admitted to
probate today. The testatrix died on Aucw
II at 1709 Mount Veron straet HttSa.
ment dlreots that the residue of Yti .
orty above t0 be OotribuUd ET Sai
shares to the run f the JUltof of Cleswy.
ewiLILLJ.-irirT-i'"rV
TTt."B' mmm 1m
if 1 1 i ifciiitofifniH 'i
si JilMmMnmmkmtfL, SKiafcV ill ifiwlMMfchwftfciBlira fiaTi i J
ARTICLE VI
The rreetdini; artktea have attempted to
aemon.tfYifff th ..-Jah.m... .j .l-
t5 dittribuHon of norcoMo drug
..v.... uvcr ma comniunfC, placing em
phaale on the defects in the Federal mid as
Jtitei-preted bv the Supreme Court. The de-
'""'' ii me jfcuoti making the utiutt- "t
thorized possession of narcotic drugs a t
crtme teas unroiitdticKonat has indirectly
tnaae no&nihl n .tt ,... ......... .. .7
spfrncy to evade the late. This article t-on-
..,., ,, exposition o remedial legislation
pronosetl hit th tf-M-, .-,, , ,.
- --- -. - ............ iviiimutcD invcait-
gating the evil, to be introduced in the Slots
Z,en!aft(re. To show the need for this teals,
lation the Evening Ledger conducted an
fnaufrv. thm ?, .. ..n.i. . m
in dally articles last week. This inquiry teas
,,""" "V ut. Jioraito u. wood, Jr., and
-.... ..iiixipmnca wiin tne active co-operation
of Unite Rtni. ni.i-j,. ai,
A'ane's ojflce.
By HENRY JAMES BUXTON
A bill designed to stamp out the nar
cotic drug evil in Philadelphia and tho rest
of Pennsylvania has been prepared by the
special citizens' committee appointed by
United States District Attorney Francis
Fisher Kane. This bill will be Introduced
at the next session ot the State Legis
lature. The bill Is designed to meet the need
created when Section S of the Harrison
act was declared unconstitutional by the
United States Supreme Court. As a
remedial measure the new bill Is stronger
than the Harrlpon act Its present form Is
tentative, and It will probably be greatly
strengthened before it Is Introduced. It la
likely that provisions will be made for
State and municipal institutions for the
care and treatment of "dope fiends." and
for the revocation of licenses of physicians,
druggists and veterinarians who are found
to be drug addicts.
The new bill has been framed to deal
with unscrupulous physicians who dispense
large quantities of "dope" under the KUlse
of 'the reduction treatment and f it be
comes a law It will deal a smashing blow
at )lllclt "dope" peddling,
The bill was drawn by Pierce Archer, ,
Jr.,.a widely known lawyer and former
chlefdeputy of tho Internal revenue service
In this city. He Is familiar with every
phase of the narcotic drug traffic In this
city and vicinity. Tlie bill provides that
any physician who desires to undertake the
cure of "dope fiends" must report each
case to the Board of Health. This section
says:
"It shall be unlawful for any prac
titioner of veterinary medicine or surgeon ,
to prescribe any of tho drugs mentioned In '
Section 1 of this act for the use of human
beings, and It shall be unlawful for any
physician or dentist to prescribe, sell, give
away or deliver any opium, or coca leaves .
or any compound, manufacture, salt, deriv
ative or preparation thereof to any person
known to such physician or dentist to be a
habitual user of any of said drugs.
'"It any physician desires to undertake
the cure of a known habitual user of said
drugs he shall make a personal physical t
examination of Buch case and report the J
same In writing to the proper officer ot the '
Board of Health of the county In which he
resides and practices, together with the
date of starting said treatment and the
amount and nature of the drug dispensed
or prescribed In the 'first treatment and
the result of said treatment when such pa
tient leaves hjg. caro; provided that such
treatment Is undertaken and carried on la
good faith and not for the object of de
feating the purposes and Intent of this aei"
BLOW AT "DOPK 8YNDICATB"
Section 4 of the proposed bill Is virtually"
a duplicate of Section 8 of the Harrison
act, which was ripped from the act by
the decision ot the United States Supreme
Court. Section 8- provided that it was a
crime for an unauthorized person to have
drugs In his possession, and the, same pro
vision Is made In Section 4, which says:
"That it shall be unlawful for any per.
ions whatsoever to have In his possession
or under his control any of the aforesaid
drugs, except In pursuance of the prescrip
tion of a physician who has prescribed the
ame In good faith."
This section will not apply to warehouse
men or to a common carrier engage la
transporting drugs or to manufacturers or
chemists.
This section will give the police the same
range which was g(en Internal'reYenue oM
clals before Section I of the Hasrlson aat
was declared unconstitutional. It wtH sMve .
tha police the power to gather In the Mfer -more
"dope" peddlers and dealers who are
now doing an unrestricted business In Hi Ma
delphla and vlclnjty. The pollee will art
need, aS now 1 the case, to obtain eYl4
of actual sales. Here possession wM fe
unlawful.- Htctloii i of the new mU MR
promises to deal a stunning blew' at
"dope syndicate," t
In other reaeeeU the new bill pirIM
the Harrison ot This has ' been, nm
that K the .entire Harrison aot shni ft
any future time be declared "-tt':-iHnisl.
rnnrlvB4a wottM not U wltfc4tt itfr)
nwWM io af4r Maitwt i dvttg trJp
"The evM wioh sit b are fa
under two ms.M r. 4JMr "Mm. '
pmtti? U tit umtmr-msU xtmm m tfe
aruk-. n w mmatm miw tst ' -
pjaWfoVM-loc'tbis iMtto. umH tfca gMfc
piuwy on of ftoWssj .
m'rh-r, &,-.&
