THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AM INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
10 PACIL
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 11, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 115
7
j
TEUTOffi GA1 ON. SOME HOOTS BUT LOSE ON OMRS
GERMANS AND 1 It
OLD FORTRESS OF S1USTRIA BUT
'All Unionized Workers of Gotham Called Upon to Strike
IT LOSSES AT OTHER S
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
Continuing their advance in western Dobrudja, the German and Bul
garian forces have captured the old Bulgarian fortress of Silistria, which
lies on the eastern bank of the Danube about 25 miles northeast of Turtu
kai and 60 miles east of Bucharest, the capital of Rumania, and about an
equal distance south of the Constanza-Bucharest railway line. The cap
ture of the fortress is announced by the German war office, which adds
that the Rumanians fighting the Bulgarians in Dobrudja apparently have
suffered very considerable losses during the last few days.
In Banat, north of Orsova, however, the Rumanians are keeping up
their advance against the Austrians, having compelled the Austrian right
wing, after it had pushed them back two and a half miles, to withdraw to
its former position under a strong counter attack. Attempts by the Ru
manians to advance against heights west of Csik Szereda were repulsed. In
southern Bukowina near tho junction of the Hungarian and Rumanian borders.-the
Germans are in contact with the Rumanians.
Berlin and Vienna concede a oain of ground to the Russians in the
Carpathians, near Zabie, to the west of Shypot. The Russians, says Berlin,
are on the offensive from the Baltic to the wooded heinhts of the Carpa
thians, but everywhere except near Shypot their attacks have been repulsed.
Attempts by the Russians to break through the Austrian lines southeast
of Lemberg, near Halicz, failed, according to Vienna, with heavy losses.
The Vienna statement mentions the gallantry of the Turkish forces fighting
with the Austrians in this region.
The repulse of German counter attacks and continued heavy bombard
ments formed the chief features of the fighting Sunday on the western front
in the Somme region between the French and British forces and the Ger
mans. The attacks by the Germans against the British took place north of
Ginchy and against the French south of Berny-En-Santerre.
A recapitulation by the British war office of the results attained by the
British on the Somme front during last week shows an advance on a front
of 6,000 yards to a deoth varying from 300 to 3,000 yards.
In addition to numerous air battles between French and German avia
tors, in which seven German machines were forced down, French aircraft
have heavily bombed German establishments in the regions of' Chauny,
south of St. Quentin, Ham and Peronne. London claims for British airmen
the destruction of three German machines and the driving down of others
in a damaged condition.
Patrol enqaqements and bombarc'ments continue to feature the fighting
on the Macedonian front. The Bulgarians, according to Paris, have been
forced to abandon several trenches in the district east of Vetrenik, while
the British have shelled Jenlkoi and Nevolyen and made a raid on the Doi
ran fremt.
In Albania the Italians in the Avlona sector have taken without opposi
tion several Austrian points of vantage. The usual artillery activity con
tinues in the Austro-ltalian theater.
That Austria-Hungary, while she would hail peace with joy, has no in
tention of quittinq the fray at the present under the terms her enemies
would impose, is the statement made by Baron Burian, the Austro--Hun-ciarian
minister of foreign affairs. ''There may be some," said Baron Burian,
"who say that for military reasons we ought to be the first to start peace
overtures. I do not think so, as long as our antagonists speak of the par
tition of our country among themselves. We have defended our soil pretty
well so far, and will do it longer long enough to make the others tire of it,
nyway."
GENERAL BLISS TO AI
McGRATH SERIOUSLY HURT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire 1
NEW YORK, Sept. 10 Matthew J.
McGrath the New York policeman
who hi Id's the world's record for
throning the- fi pound weight, was
taken to a hospital tonicht in a criti-
al condition aftfr a fall from a plat
form. Physicians said his spinal
cord was Injured.
DUAL MONARCHY
NOT FOR PEACE
AT ANY PRICE
Report Taking Fort
BERLIN, Sept. I". (Via London.)
Official announcement was made to
day that the German and Bulgarian
forces that are invading eastern Ru
mania have captured the Rumanian
fortress of Silistria, on the Danube, '
miles southeast of Bucharest. The
announcement follows:
"Silistria has fallen.
"The Rumanians and Russians dur
ing the last few davs appear to have
Buffered very considerable losses.
"On the Macedonian front there was
no incident of importance."
Silistria is one of the line of Ru
manian fortresses on the southern
tank of the Danube.. It is 2.7 miles
northeast of Turtukai. capture of
winch by the
nounced last week
an important fortress in earlier wars.
The town has about 15.H0O inhabitants.
The official Bulgarian report of Sep
tember 7. which announces the cantnre
of the Rumanian fortress of Turtukai
gives the following additional .infor
mation: "We captured the 3-ith, 3T,th. 36th.
4oth, 74th. 7!'th. SOth and Mth infantry
regiments and two banalions of a regi
ment of gendarmes. "We also cap
tured the artillery of the fortress and
plentiful supplies of ammunition,
rifles, machine guns, etc.
"The number of prisoners and the
amount of booty taken has not yet
been ascertained'. I'p to the present
time we have counted 4i0 officers,
among whom there are three briga
dier generals; 21,000 unwounded sol
diers, two flags, and more than 100
modern cannon, among which were
two batteries stolen in 1!'13 (during the
second Balkan war in 1IU3 when Ru-
invaders was an- mama compelled Kuigaria to ceoe
It has figured as -'-""'runja., in wnicn TurtuKal is sit-
Major Moraht, military critic of the
Tageblatt, Calculates the Rumanian
Josses in connection with the capture
by the Bulgarians and Germans of the
RAS EIRST HID
DATA ON STATUS
ALONE BORDER
D COMMISSIONERS HI IN
CVnflOJITUV UflTU
diiv rH ii til hi
BIG VOTE PREDICTED
IN MAINE ELECTION
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PORTLAND, Me.. Sept. 10. A big
vote Is predicted in the state election
tomorrow. After a Sunday of com
parative rest and review, during which
the heat of battle cooled somewhat,
the party managers tonight declared
they stood by figures proclaimed at
the close of the campaign last night.
The republicans claim everything, with
pluralities approximating ir,,0'l". The
n-.Mexican commission to ; uemncrats claim pluralities ol J.uoc.
General Tasker II. Bliss, I 1 '"'V annul ine outcome in the third
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Vi .Siil.vJTON. Sept. 10 Secretary
Iii.k r t. t-:y granted the request of
the ,i. n.
have 'i.ij'M
after three days of violent lighting.
(Continued on Pago Seven)
WAR TO END BY AUGUST
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
' LONDON. Sept. 10. General Rrus
Riloff, in an interview withthe corrs-
pondent of the Daily Chronicle at tho
Russian front predicts the end of the
war by next August.
The Aiistro-llungarian arrnv. as-
blows. The intervention of Rumania is
an event of the first order. I am no
I prophet; the future is in God's hands.
, But if I had to make a hypothesis. I
should be inclined to thinl: that the
month oi August 1917, might, sec the
end of our memorable work.
The present war is one which it Is
al-
the horde o." enemies who are hurl- acomplished. A stiececsf id result is
Ing themselves against it and is pre- already in our hand; the game is al
jiaring to increase the vigor of their ' readv won"
sauen rrom all sides,' he said, "wont. . Impossible, for th allies to lose
-e am' in sianu morn lor irer hefrir
VETERANS IKE PILGRIMAGE TO
'SCENE OF BATTLE OF THE IflNE
Republican A. P. Leased Whej
' PARIS, Sept. 10. The second anni
versary of the battle of the Marne,
which has been celebrated at different
points on the great battlefield since
September 5 with simple but impres
sive ceremonies, culminated today in a
pilgrimage to the battlefield of the
Oreo., of the "fighters of the Marne,"
the first organized body of veterans of
thiH great war. Tho veterans were es
corted by other associations, compris
ing mustered out combatants of 1!I4
and veterans of the war of 1870. The
great tomb of Neufmoutiers, marking
the last resting place of 13f men: the
Main between Chamhray and Barcy,
where 400 tri-colored flags marked the
spot where as many heroes fell; the
monument at Chamhray, raised to the
memory of the soldiers of the army of
Paris, and the cemetery at Krtrepilly
and Villeroy were covered with
flowers.
M. Denys Cochin, minister of state,
attended the ceremony at the cathedral
in Meaux, which was presided over by
Bishop Marbeau of Meaux, who was
assisted by Cardinal Lucon, archbishop
or uneims.
Justin Oodart, undersecretary fo
war, visited the different cemeteries,
as the representative of the govern
ment, and deposited Immense nalms
hearing in golden letters the words,
To the Immortal victors of the
Marne." .
General Michael Joseph Maunoury,
who led the army In Paris victoriously
against the German General von
Kluck's right wing In the great battle.
Hpent the day at his home at Herbilly,
in Touraine, where delegations called
and presented him with flowers and an
artistic cup, the latter a gift of the
people. General Maunoury, who re
sumed for a "short time his duties as
governor of Paris after his partial re
covery from a wound received while in
a front line trench, now is completely
blind and is living in retirement in
company with his son. Captain Ixjuis
Maunoury, who lost a leg in the war
During the day the principal points
of interest in the battlefield ..r tho
Marne were visited by a delegation of
French and foreign journalists under
m,T rnv.iii n me. r rencn omcers.
Republican A. P. Leased Wlrel
VIENNA. Sept. 7, (Via Berlin to
Imdon. Sept. 10). In a thoroughly
frank manner the Austro-Hungarian
minister of foreign affairs. Baron
Stephen Burian von Bojeez. discussed
today in an interview with the cor
respondent of the Associated Press the
position of the dual monarchy in the
world war, which, he said, had been
erroneously characterized by enemies
and cert:-in neutrals s unsatisfactory.
"Austro-Hungary is far from lying
down, as hoped by some," said the min
ister, in a tone carrying convicti'n. "It
is true, we would hail peace with joy
but not the sort of peace our enemies
would impose. So long as we have
to defend ourselves against those who
want to take part of our territory, we
naturally are unwilling to discuss
peace, and so long we also are deter
mined to hold out and win. The
thought that we are eager for peace
on any terms originates probably in
minds hoping that such w ill become the
case.
The minister then reviewed the sit
uation prior to Rumania's declaration
of war, and said:
"We offered Rumania no territory
concessions at any time after having
! discovered in the case of Italy that the
! world was likely to mistake our rea
sonable attitude for weakness. Nor
were v.'e pvpr luL-pn l,v tznniriue V,v Pn
mania. What did fool us was that Ru
mania made up her mind so quickly
We knew In June, after the setting in
of the latest Russian offensive, that
Rome and Bratiano (the Rumanian
premier) had made a definite bargain
We also knew that Rumania was not
Uite ready toward the end of August.
"For all that, our military authori
ties made all possible preparations
which did not consist, as has been
developed, In holding the mountain
summits and passes along the Ru
manian border, but which consisted In
the establishment of the line of de
fense now occupied by our troops.
Contrary to the general impression, the
falling back of our troops has been of
no advantage to tho Rumanian, which
fact has finally dawned on the Ruma
nian military commanders, since they
have become very cautious recently.
"The military field is not my de
partment. I know that Rumania's ac
tion was no surprise, despite the fact
that the Rumanian diplomats lied (o
me constantly. Toward the last their
assurances became too fervent and
their lying too patiently obvious: so I
reached the conclusion that trouble
was not far off. Whether the decla
ration of war was due on Sunday fir
Tuesday, I did not know. But I felt
it was due, because, in addition, the
reports from Bucharest indicated that
the Rumanian pressure was getting
more severe each day. the entente gov
ernments wanting to add the weight
of their own futile offensive In the
east and west and Saloniki, the great
impression the war declaration was
expected to make, but did, in reality,
riot make because we were ready for it.
"I will say thaf Bratiano played a
good game, though. When the entente
finally had shown all Its cards, Bra
tiano stiffened up in his own demands,'
which were granted fully some time
before the outbreak of the war. Then
Bratiano thought he would play the
part of taking from the Austro-Hun-garian
corps, what he could,
"But the entente had Its own no
tions, which, Bratiano learned when
ho was told that he was mistaken if
he thought his role was merely taking
pennies from a dead man. He was
instructed to start immediately, for
only in helping to down the central
powers could he hope to gain what he
wanted. The declaration was, there
fore, transmitted.
"Well, Rumania will have a good
chance to rue her bargain, if I am not
mistaken. The fact is, we are far from
completely dead, as some think.
Replying to a question as to the
assista.nl chief of staff, go to New
London, Conn., to give the commis
sioners information gatucred first
hand concerning the military situation
along the international boundary
General Bliss was
hold himself in readiness to respond
to a summons, and will leave when
ever notified tie is waneeu. The gen
eral is regarded as one of the army's
most competent authorities on Mex
ican questions. As assistant chief of
staff he has more to do with the.
admininst ration of military opera
tions along the border than any other
officer, excpl Major General Fun
ston. and recently he completed a per
sonal inspection of all the border
patrol military camps.
I'rei-Mirc from political and busi
ness quarters is being brought io bear
upon Secretary Baker and administra
tion officials generally to withdravf
national guard organizations from trr
border. Members of congress, busi
ness bouses and friends and relatives
of guardsmen huve del iged the de
partment the last few days with re
nuest for the release of the militia.
1 lie department has Informed all in
quirers that action will he taken as
soon as practicable.
Secretary B.'ker already has indi
cated that as soon as the units now
en oiite to the border arrive other
organizations will be withdrawn.
Guardsmen still in their state camps
all probably will be given a tour of
border field service before being must
ered out.
and fourth congressional districts is in
doubt.
If an average is struck between the
rival claims, Maine, politically speak
ing, may be said to be either party's
authorized to state tonight. Three conclusions, how
ever, are not disputed.
If Governor fiakley C. Curtis is re
elected by the democrats the result
will be accepted generally as an en
dorsement of the administration.
if the democrats, who now hold one
of the four seats in congress, return
Congressman Daniel J. McGillicuddy
and capture the second seat, it will be
construed as showing that "the First
and Second districts stand strongly be
hind the national executive.
If the democrats, by a popular vote,
re-elect liiited States Senator Charles
E. Johnson and win another seat in
the senate through the defeat of for
mer Governor B. M. Fernald by Ken
neth C. M. Sills, dean of Bowdoin col
lege, it will be taken as evidence that
the voters of the state, generally, wish
to hold up the hands of President
Wilson.
The fight for United States senators
is especially important, as upon the
outcome may depend the control of the
upper house to obtain which the re
publicans must win nine seats now
held by democrats, as nine senators
will be chosen by popular vote.
The control of the state legislature
is important locally, as the two houses
on a joint ballot elect the state officers
with the exception of governor and
state auditor.
IISTEBS OF
ENTENTES 1EET
GREEK PREMIER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. Sept. 10. Great import-
ENGLAND FACES
DANGER OF BIG
ILir STRIKE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. Sept. 10. The situation
. i . ,i . . t-. I iiaiiiuui: ik,iii me lAiinitv mens utj
urn . -.uau, in u.c.es o. i- .,,, fur nn increase in wages of 10
uror.y io r.euier ana me txenang.? smiling a week has become increas-
Commission to Resume
NEW LONDON, Conn.. Sept. 10.
With the return here tonight ol Louis
Cabrera and Altierto Tani from week
end trips td Boston and New York,
memlM-rs of the American-Mexican
joint commission was ready to resume
tomorrow their dehberat ions as to the
situation along the Mexican border.
General Talker II. Bliss, assistant
chief of staff of the Vnited Slates
army. Is expected to reach here soon,
his presence having been requested by
tre American commissioners who de
sire the benefit of his personal Infor
mation as to liorder conations.
Tomorrow's meeting will be devoted
tu further discussion of ways and
mtaue to end the disturbed border
situition. So far the t ommissioners
have been unable to formulate even
a tentative plan, it Is understood, as
to the policing system to be adopted.
Present indications are that the
Joint commission will meet for only
three or four days during the week.
Several of the Mexican commis
sioners have pressing business else
v here which will require their atten
tion for a short time.
Telegraph to the conference at
Athens between the entente ministers
:.nd Picmicr Zaimis.
The Creek premier seemingly made
no definite statement regarding the
Greek government's intentions, but
sounded the diplomatic representatives
regarding the feeling of their gov
ernment in the event of Greece's de
parture from neutrality. The min
isters replied that thev welcomed pro
posals from the Greek government
which they would submit to their own
governments.
Premier Zaimis had a lengthy in
terview with King Constantine on
Saturday, and it is supposed that the
sittings have been adjourned pending
the telfgraphic advices from tne en
tente capitals.
A large detachment of Greek ma
rines, the dispatches said, has been
brought to Athens to help the police
maintain order.
"A party of unidentified brawlers
fired shots at the French legation
esterday during a conferenre of the
entente ministers." savs Reuters Ath
ens correspondent. "Premies Zaimis
immediately expressed his regret to
M. Guillcmin. the French minister,
v ho accepted the premier's assuranc
es, hut it is feared the incident may
have' untoward consequences."
The entente ministers visited Pre
mier Zaimis and Informed him of the
conditions on which the incident
would be considered closed. Thev
ingly serious. At a meeting of 3,000
railway workers at Cardiff todav
resolution was adopted providing that
unless the demands are conceded by
September 16, all railway work will
he stopped in South Wales at midnight
the 17th.
The resolution also stated that the
advance in wages should date from
July 1 and that the government should
give a definite guarantee that in the
future it will control the supply of
toed and regulate prices.
Judgine from the government's at
titude hitherto regarding the question
of the control of food, its' distribution
and prices, there is little likelihood
that it will yield to such a demand
and should the railway workers in
the other parts of the country en
dorse the action of the South Wales
J men there is danger of a general rail
way striKo.
Mr. Bellamy, president of the Na
tional Railway Men's I'nion. speak
ing at Doncaster tonight, expressed
the willingness of the men to with
draw their demand for an increase
of wages if the government would see
that provisions were reduced to some
thing like their prices before the instances
Rebel Besieoe Town
SAMNA CRCZ. Mex.. (By radio Io
'an Diego Cal., Sept. 10) Fifty
ebels that attacked a constitutionalist were, first, the punishment of those
foree of about the same stiength at
San Geronimn, axaca, Sept. 7. still
were resieging the town, according to
latest reports. Train service to San
Geronimo has been suspended for two
dav
Villa infantry, 200 to 400 strong
nrter General Alonzo. Is rporte1
ictlve near Manzar.illo, raiding
ranches and villages. A Carranza
force at Valadera was engaged by the
rebels yesterday without success.
Silver valued at 1150.000 and 200
tons of concentrate, property of the
farra n?a government, has arrived at
Manzanlllo hv steamer for shipment
to Mexico City
Few votes were cast nt a municipal
election held at Manzanlllo Saturday
Lack of Interest was also shown in
an clccilon nt Mazatlan.
(Continued on Page Two)
Restricting Sale of Meat
Four Days of Each Week
Republican A. P. Leased Wlrel 1
RF.RLIN. Sept. 10. (by wireless to
Sayville.) Unofficial reports received
bv the Overseas News Agencv savs
that the sale "f meat now is forbid
den throughout Russia on Tuesday.
Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of
?nen week. A dispatch from Buda
pest ' says the decree providing for
meatless days in Petrograd has caus
ed an increase in the prices of other
articles of food, especially vegetables
ind fruit, amounting in some cases
to 100 per cent. .
Reports from Stockholm to the
Overseas News Agency say that the
situation, in Petrograd as regards th?
food supply has reached a crisis and
that the opening of the schools will
be postponed a month to delay for
that length of time the arrival of
pupils in the city.
"All persons whoso presence In
Petrograd is not absolutelv necessary
will be deported.'" the news agency
xnw. "The Stockholm advices are
that these persons will not escape
hunger, as there is famine throughout
Russia,
Obio Troops Mobiliiinq
TIT PAS'' Sept. 10. Mobilization of
the 7..VMI nhio trooos on the horde
rapidlv inured completion tonight with
(Continued on Page Seven)
. 0
Four Are Killed
When Train Hits
Their Automobile
responsible; second. proceedings
against the officials who failed to re
press the incident; third, the imme
(iiate closing r.f all sections of re
servist leagues In Athens and the
provinces.
"Premier Znlmis replied that he
would issue orders to that effect Im
mediately."
N, Y. CAR fill
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Sept. 10. A strike of
stage employes, longshoremen, brew
ery workers, machinists, bartenders,
moulders and printers in sympathy ,
with the unionized car men who quit
their places four days ago, was de
cided upon at a meeting of the heads
of their unions tonight, according to
an announcement tiy Hugh FTayno,
state organizer of the American fed
eration of Labor.
A resolution was adopted calling on
all unionized wage earners in Greater
New York, Yonkers, Mount Vernon,
White Plains and New Rochelle to
sanction a strike "in support of tha
contention of the street railway men
of their right to organize." The reso
lution recommended that the worker
in the various trades "lay down their
tools until the companies are forced
to recognize the carmen's union."
According to State Organizer
Frayne. approximately 750.000 men
and women are enrolled in the unionw
that were represented at the meeting
tonight.
Before a sympathetic strike can be
declared, however, it was explained
bv the union leaders, it will be neces
sary for them to call mass meetings
r.f their respective unions and put the
proposition to a vote of the members.
The delegates at the meeting tonight,
it was said, assured William B. Fitz
gerald, organizer of the carmen's un
ion, that their members we're "willing
to fight to a finis1!, morally, physically
and financially, in the interest of
trade unionism.
Officials of the railway companies,
when informed of the action of the
union leaders, asked whether tho
building trades were to he included
in the recommendation for -a sym
pathetic strike. They were told that
no action with respect to these un
ions had been taken.
The meeting of the union delegate
following a meeting held earlier in
the evening at which Samuel Gomp
ers. president of the American Fed
eration of Labor, and officials of the
Central Lahor Cnions in New York
and Brooklyn, as well as the heads of
the carmen's union, were present. Un
divided moral and financial support
of all trade unionists in Greater New
York was pledged in a resolution
adopted at this conference to th'i
striking car men.
Tho fourth day of the strike found
all surface car line in Manhattan,
the Bronx and parts of Westchester
county hadly crippled. Tniring the
dav the service on nearly all tha
lines was about fifty per cent normal,
and tonight the police reported that
it had almost entirely been suspended.
In the suhwar and on. the elevated
railway lines, however, trains run
with greater frequency than usual.
This, it was explained, was done to
accommodate the overflow of Sunday
crowds which ordinarily rode on sur
face cars.
Jitneys were In demand during the
day. particularly in the cross town
thirougbfares of the city. In some
adults were observed on
HARTFORD MARSHAL SHOT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOTHAN, Ala., Sept. 10 I. IX
Chancey, veteran marshal of Hartford,
Ala., who was awaiting trial at the fall
term of the Geneva county circuit
court on an indictment charging him
with having killed a man named Driver
at Hartford last January, was shot and
instantly killed today in Houston
county. It is charged that Barlow
Driver, lirother of the man killed by
the sheriff, did the shooting. Chancey
had claimed that he killed Driver's
brother in self defense, the latter re
sisting arrest.
MAROONED EXPLORERS TELL OF
LIFE ON ELEPHANT ISLAND
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LOVF.LAND. Colo., Sept. 10. Four
occupants of an automobile were kill
ed here early tonight when the ma
chine was struck by a Colorada and
Southern train The dead:
James L. Hedclson, 32.
Mrs. .lames I,. Hedelson, 30.
Mr.. Clara Jones, 85.
Mrs. Julia A. Lent, 50.
Mr. and Mrs. Hedelson and Mrs.
Tones resided here and Mrs. Lent, who
was Mrs. Hedelson's mother, iived at
Kureka, Kansas. Mrs. Lent was
thrown clear of the wreckage and
Hved for a short time after the colli
sion. The bodies of the other victims
'( in lenrnlnir thnt. the tallica had
tortured to death "a workinpr man who were pinned under the maehlna, and
had been -jrtested n mh In Pet mi? ,1 I it was necessary to remove the pilot
attacked and wounded the chief ot of the engine in order to extricate
police and several policemen." them.
, Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. Sept. 10. Ulfe on Ele
phant Island In the Antarctic, as it
was experienced by the marooned men
of Lieutenant Sir Ernest Shackleton's
-.outh polar expedition, who were
recently rescued and taken to Chile,
is described in a message received
from Puntarenas today.
"The day began," says the descrip
tion, "wilh breakfast which consisted
merely of penquin, fried in blubber,
with a drink of water. The morning's
duties consisted in clearing away snow
drifts and catching penguins. rVunch
was served at 1 o'clock, consisting of
a biscuit with raw blubber. The af
ternoon was occupied with regular
exercise over a track one hundred
yards In length.'
"At five o'clock, when darkness fell,
came dinner consisting of penguin
breast and beef lea. Lacking tobacco,
'he men smoked grass from the pad-
dinjr in their boots, while the pipes
were carved from bird's bones and
wood. The members of the party
took turns in reading aloud from the
onle available hooks namely, the
Bible, an encyclopedia. Browning,
Bacon's cssavs and Carlyle's French
revolution. Saturday evening was al
ways marked ty a concert, the feature
cf which was han.io playing. A banio
was tho only musical instrument in
camp.
"On one occasion there was a wel
come addition to the diet when sev
eral undigested fish were found in the
stomach of a peal and greatly enjoyed.
These were the only fish obtained
during our stay. In August there was
a change in the diet, when limpets
were gathered and sea weed was
available as a vegetable.
"We were in the midst of one of
these limpet and sea weed lunches
when the rescue hnat was sighted.
" 'When was the war over'? was
the' first ouestlon w-e asked."
roller skates.
The first accident since the strike
began occurred late today when 14
persons, among them six policemen on
strike duty, received minor injuries
in a rear-end collision between two
Third avenue elevated trains.
Several outbreaks of violence were
reported by the police. The most ser
ious was ?n attack on a Madison
avenue surface car. Eleven arrests
vere made after shots were fired by
thd rtdire to hold back rloter3 who
tried to rescue the prisoners. One
policeman was hurt by a bottl
thrown by a rioter.
o .
FATAL GRASS FIRF
Republican A. P. Leased WlreJ
SAN JOSE, Cal., Sept. 10.-C.-irl
Stagen was burned to death and Dr.
George Daniels of Dedwood City was
overcome and is in a critical condi
tion as a result of a fire that burned
over reveral thousand acres of grass
and woodland near here today. Hand
some suburban homes of wealthy San
Franciscans were in the path of the
flames but were saved. Several ranch
es were burned over with considerable
loss. Mayor James Rolph, Jr., of San
Francisco, was near the scene and
was one of several hundred volunteers
who fought the fire, until late tonight
vhn It was believed to be under control.
TURK MINISTER TO CONFER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN. Sept. 10 (By wireless to
Sayville) Tlalil Bey, Turkish minis
ter of the interior, arrived here today
from Constantinople for a conference?
with German officials.
Presidents Sister is 111,
He Oanceh Engagements
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONG BRANCH. N. J.. Sept. 10.
President Wilson received word late
tonight that the condition of his sister.
Mrs. Anne Howe, who is critically ill
at New Ixmdon, Conn., has taken a
turn for tho worse. Th president im
mediately cancelled all engagements
for tomorrow and announced he would
start for New London early1 in the
morning.
The president had planned to go to
the new executive offices at Asbury
Park tomorrow to hold political con
ferences with Representatives Pattou,
of New York, and Scully. . of New
Jersey, and to attend to an accumula
tion of official business.
The summer capitol was visited hv
large crowds today, but few caught
a glimpse of Mr. Wilson.
Special policemen were stationed at
each end of the five gates to Shadow
Lawn. t -
Siiecisl arrangements were made
for keeping the president in touch
with the Maine election tomorrow.
Today Mr. Wilson slept late and
did not go to church. Late this after
noon he and Mrs. Wilson took an
automobile ride.
