"
Central Span of Largest Cantilever Suspension Bridge in World Collapses at Quebec
HARRISBURG TELEGRAPH
T YYYV Vn 71 N BV CARRIGII9 CEVT* A WEGK.
LA A A V I\o. £IU SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
QUEBEC BRIDGE
' FALLS IN RIVE
WITH
New Central Span of Largest Cantilever Suspension in the
World Snaps While Being Hoisted Into Place and
Drops Into 200 Feet of Water; Twenty-Five Be
lieved Dead; Crash Occurs on Scene of Previous Acci
dent in 1907
MONSTER GIRDER WEIGHED 5,000 TONS;
COLLAPSES IN SIGHT OF MANY SPECTATORS
Canadian Officials and Hundreds of American Tourists
Had Gathered to See the Wonderful Engineering
Feat; Corner Gives Way First, Then Structure ;
Crumples in Center; Falls From Height of 15 Feet;
Loss Estimated at $17,000,000
Quebec, Sept. 11. The span of the world's greatest
bridge collapsed and fell into the St. Lawrence river to
day with a loss of life variously estimated. The company
erecting the structure placed the number of deaths at up
wards of 25, but H. P. Borden, a member of the Quebec
Bridge Commission, expressed the opinion that only three
persons were lost. Several hours after the accident hap
pened, at 10.30 o'clock, a special train into Quebec brought
twenty men who had been injured.
Similar Accident 9 Years Ago
Nine years ago a similar accident at the same spot took a toll'
of 70 lives. To-day ninety men were carried into the river when the j
5.000 ton span, being raised from pontoons in an engineering feat 1
designed to complete the $17,000,000 cantilever suspension for trans-'
continental railway traffic, plunged a distance of fifteen feet into j
the water and sank 200 feet, perhaps never to be recovered.
Supports Snap Like Shells
Contradictory stories were told regarding the collapse. The
pontoons had been removed and the span was being lifted by mas
sive hydraulic jacks when, according to some of the spectators the
northern end of the span fell with the breaking of girders. Frantic j
efforts were made to place a chain rope around the tottering struc- I
ture but with reports like shells exploding the remaining supports
snapped and the span disappeared with a tremendous splash. Some t
of the observers said that the structure also buckeled at the center |
as it fell.
Groups Knocked Into Space
Groups of men at work slipped off into the water and others
were knocked into space by flying debris. Scores of craft containing
spectators went to the rescue and their endeavors prevented a larger
loss of life.
Sinks in 200 Feet of Water
Boats from among the hundreds of craft on which spectators had
gathered were rushed to the spot where the span disappeared. The
fallen structure sank 200 feet to the bottom of the river and engi
neers who witnessed the collapse expressed doubts as to whether
it could be brought up again.
Cost 817,000,000
The bridge was being constructed at
a cost of $17,000,000 in order to
shorten the railway Journey from
Halifax to the Canadian Northwest by
200 miles.
The bridge stands on the site of the
structure which collapsed on August
29, ISO 7, with a loss of seventy lives.
The central span which fell to-day
weighs more than 5,000 tons and is
640 feet long.
The span had been constructed on
pontoons a few miles east of the
bridge site and was towed into posi
tion immediately under the gap left
In the anchor arms of the structure.
Chains with links thirty inches in
diameter together with girders were
then attached to the span and 8,000-
ton hydraulic Jacks commenced the
stupendous task of lifting the span
into place.
This work could be accomplished
only a few feet an hour and as the
distance from the river leve' to the
floor of the bridge is 150 feet, the en
gineers had not counted on completing
the operation until the end of this
week or later. The bridge was to have
THE WEATHER
Harrlsburg and vicinity! Fair, to
night und Tuesday, warmer to
night.
Eastern Pennsylvania: Fair to
night and Tuesday, warmer to
night in north and nest portions.
Moderate east wind*.
Hlver
The Susquehanna river and Its
branches will fall slowly or remain
stationary. A stage of about 3.3
feet is Indicated for Harrlsburg
Tuesday morning.
General Conditions
Pressure Is high over the eastern
part of the country and over the
Rocky Mountain and Plateau re
gional It la low over the Southwest
and Western Canada.
Showers have fallen In the last 24
hours. In the upper Mississippi val
ley, over the greater part of the
plalna States and In the Rocky
Mountains and there was snow
Sunday morning In the Yellowstone
National Park. Scattered showera
occurred In the East Gulf and South
Atlantic States.
Temperatures are 2 to 12 degreea
lower than on Saturday morning in
the Atlantic States and 2 to 26 de
grees lower over nearly all
the western half of tire country.
Temperature, 8 a. m., 58.
Sum Rises, 5.41 a. m.; sets, f1.17
p. m.
Moon: Full. moon, to-day, 3JI
p. m.
Rivert. Stage, 3.3 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
temperature, 74.
lowest temperature. 54.
Mean temperature, A 4.
Normal temperature, 67.
| been ready for train service next
Spring, marking an important mile
stone in Canada's engineering railway
history.
Many See Accident
The juggling or 5,000 tons of steel
under unprecedented circumstances in
j the Dominion attracted to the scene
. to-day several thousand spectators, in
[Confinued on Page 10]
Lebanon Jeweler Catches
Thief Who Stole Watch
From Keller Home
When an Italian called at a Leb
i anon jewelry store and asked to have
the monogram "H. L. K." removed
! from a lady's gold watch, it led to the
discovery that the watch was the prop
erty of Miss Helen L. Keller and had
been stolen July 9, from the Keller
I summer home at Penbrook.
| The Lebanon jeweler, suspecting the
foreigner, examined the watch and
| found the mark of C. Ross Boas, a
| jeweler of this city. He communicated
at once with Mr. Hoas and Harrisburg
police were advised of the attempt to
h.ve the watch altered. A warrant
was issued for the arrest of the
Italian, who will be brought to this
city.
Cost Eugene Just $125
For This Robin Potpie
, E "? e " e Dalmatia. a quarry worker
of Waltonville, paid a fine of $125
when faced with an alternative of 125
days in jail for killing robins in the
lower end of Dauphin county to-day.
Dalmatia is a naturalized citizen and
he went hunting yesterday. When
caught by Game Wardens Baum,
Lightner and Bowman he had four
robins in his pocket and six in a
bucket. He pleaded that he was sick
and could not eat meat, so he pre
ferred a bird diet. His reason for
shooting on Sunday was that he had to
work other days of the week. The fine
was $lO a robin and $25 for Sunday
shooting.
UNIVERSITY CLUB OPENS
The board of directors of the Uni
versity Club met at noon to-day and
decided on Monday evening, Septem
ber 25. as the opening night for the
club. There will be music, speeches
and other entertainment for the occa
sion. The opening this evening is ab
solutely informal and is merely to give
the members an opportunity to inspect
the clubrooms and familiarize them
selves with the new home.
An amendment to the by-laws was !
announced to-day, providing for the
inclusion in the membership of under- '
graduates at credited universities The
student membership will come under;
the nonresident clausi
HARRISBURG, PA.. MONDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 11, 1916
VIEW OF QUEBEC BRIDGE WHICH FELL WITH NINETY MEN
At the top Is the 5,000-ton center span of the world's largest cantilever bridge which fell into 200 feet
of water to-day with ninety men. When this picture was taken it was supported by false work.
Below is seen the monster anchor arms between which the span was being placed when it buckled and
dropped.
RAUNICK THINKS
ICE CREAM WILL
SOON BE SAFE
-
! Tests Show Big Improvement
Announces City Health
Officer
"Ice cream and cream samples are
showing a big improvement in the
majority of tests, but I do not con
sider the supply entirely safe yet," Dr.
J. M. J. Raunick. city health officer,
said this morning in discussing the
typhoid situation in the city,
i ',' The food inspectors have taken
J about 150 samples and these have
J been carefully tested by Dr. George
IR. Motfitt, city bacteriologist. The
j figures of the analyses will probably
Ibe made public on Wednesday. Ev
| ery manufacturer in the city has been
visited and several tests were made
on different occasions. Many of them
[Continued on Page 7]
NAVY TO BEGIN
BOOSTING RIVER
Permanent Development Plan
j to Be Discussed Tonight;
Present Tech Cup
NAVY, ATTTKNTIOX: Definite j
pl;ins for permanent development
of the Susquehanna river basin
will lo discussed, steps taken
; toward preparing the program for
| consideration of Council in Uic
1917 budget, the Navy cup will be
formally presented to the war 1
canoe crew of the Technical high
school, winner of the Kipona race,
and other matters pertaining to 1
the Labor Day celebration will be
considered at a bin meeting at 8
o'clock to-night at the Dintaman
loa pavilion of the Greater Har
rislmrg Navy. Every member is
c-ipectcd to attend.
If you have in mind any suggestions
[Continued on Page 10]
REAR ADMIRAL HEXDEE DIES
By Associated press
Brookllne, Mass., Sept. 11. Rear!
Admiral George E. Hendee, U. S. N.,:
(retired), died at his home here last ]
night. He was born in Boston 75
years ago and was retired In 1902. He
took part in many naval engagements
during the Civil War.
GOVERNOR SAYS
G. O.P.WILL WIN
MAINE BY 10,000
Brumbaugh Home From Pine
Tree State Predicts Big
Wallop at Wilson
"I think the Republicans will carry
| Maine by from 10,000 to 12,000 to
j day," said Governor Martin G. Brum
i baugh at the State Capitol to-day.
j The Governor arrived this morning
after his vacation which was spent in
the Pine Tree State and where he
had made three speeches in the cam
paign.
"I think that eighty per cent of the
Progressives will vote the Republi
can ticket and from my observation
I the State will go Republican in dis
tricts which were .iebateable some
time ago," continued the Governor.
Governor Brumbaugh said that he
[Continued on Pago 3]
N. Y. TROLLEY
LINES TIED UP
Subway and Elevated Routes
Impeded and Surface
Roads Stopped
By Associated Press
New York, Sept. 11.—With the lead- j
ers of 750,000 laboring men of Greater |
I N ' ew York and vicinity threatening a
■ sympathetic strike, trafnc on the sub- !
| way and elevated lines in Manhattan !
j and the Bronx impeded and the sur- j
I face systems in tho6o two boroughs
and Westchester county virtually tied
! up, the general strike situation as
sumed a more serious aspect to-day.
Samuel Gompers, president of the
American Federation of Labor, de
clined to discuss the probability of a
general strike, but union leaders as
serted that if necessary 50,000 union
men could be called out within six
hours.
Traction officials attributed the fall
ing oft in service on the subway and
elevated roads to the unprecedented
increase in traffic caused by the stop
page of all the surface lines. Union
leaders claimed, however, that the de
fection of heretofore loyal employes
of the roads was responsible.
PLANNERS FIX
FUTURE LINES
NORTH OF CITY
I
Second Street, Above Division,
Will Be 300 Feet East of
Front Street
By approving the newly-established
lines of Front and Second streets from
Division street northward to the base
of the mountains at Rockville, the City
Planning Commission to-day inaugu
rated what is considered in municipal
circles as its most radical step in in
suring uniformity of street and build
ing line for the future development of
Harrisburg.
The Planning Commission had In
vited City Council to attend to-day's
session, setting a precedent by the
way, which will be followed right
along at future sessions.
Council however had nothing to do
[Continued on Page 3]
I PINCHOT TO GIVE
VOTE TO HUGHES
Progressive Leader Declares
He Can Trust Him; Scores
Wilson
Milford, Pa.. Sept. 11.—In a stirring
interview Gifford Plnchot, Progressive
leader and friend of Theodore Roose
velt, announced his determination to
work and vote for the election of
Charles K. Hughes to the presidency.
Mr. Pinchot declared that he had
, arrived at this determination because
i he could not trust President Wilson
and he could trust Mr. Hughes.
President Wilson, said Mr. Pinchot,
has a greater power than any man in
public life to say one thing and do
another and get away with it. He
enumerated the swift changes of policy
of which the President had been guilty
and said Mr. Wilson had been "steadily
LContinued on Pngc B.]
GENERAL, JAMES DEAD
By Associated Press
New York. Sept. 11. General
Thomas L. James, who was Post
master General in the Cabinet of Presi- |
dent Garfield, died here to-day in his ;
eighty-sixth year. He was born in '
Utica, N. Y„ and after a career in
journalism in this state he came to
New York city and entered the cus
toms service, with which he was long
identified.
ALLIES CLOSING
IN ON BULGARS
FROM TWO SIDES
Prepare in Balkans to Launch
Drive From North and
South
ALREADY ACROSS STRUMA
Heavy Artillery Blasts Way
For Attack; Fighting in
Villages Now
Attacks on Bulgaria from both the
North and South are apparently in
preparation by the entente armies in
the Balkans.
A movement from the South de
veloped to-day in official news from
Paris that the British had taken the
offensive on the northeastern Mace
donian front. They have crossed the
Struma about 40 miles northeast of
Salonikl in an advance toward the
Bulgarian border, after strong artillery
preparation and are attacking the
[Continued on Pago 3]
Striking Trolleymen to
Carry Fight on Company
to Public Service Body
Striking employes of the Harrisburg
Railways Company to-day made the
first movement in their plan to carrv
their fight against the company before
the Public Service Commission.
A committee headed by J. J. Thorpe
the organizer; Hugh J,. McLaughlin!
the chairman of the union here, and
others called at the Capitol and made
inquiry as to procedure to bring to the
attention of the commission the serv
ice of the company.
The committee was informed that
the commission could not. take up
allegations of dangerous service with
out a specific compliint and it applied
for forms anil information how to
proceed.
REFUND FOR AM, ROOKIES
Plattsburg, N. Y„ Sept. 11.—Citizen
soldiers attending earlier camps, as
well as those now In training here, will
receive from the Government their
traveling and subsistence expenses, it
was announced to-night by Major-
General Leonard Wood, commanding
the Department of the East. The
army appropriation bill Just passed
by . Congress provides a fund for the
purpose.
■ ■ *r^yrMovfr w
' Captain Henry M. Stine to-day sent his personal check T
of SSO to Captain Fran!: E. Ziegler, commanding Company I,
I at El Pa;o as the share of the Dauphin county companies T
in the fund to provide a moving picture outfit for the Penn- . i
sylvania troop-- on the border. >
FILE SCHOOL AUDIT I
Harrisburg. Audit of the school district's accounts •
for the year ending July 1, 1916, was approved to-day by j '
the Dauphi ounty court and the judges directed that I |
Auditors H. O. Eurtnett and James D. Saltsman receive $5 i f
per day even days' work each on the report. The | >
report summarized, shows the following: Receipts, $600,* ; |
960,67; balance from preceding year $109,046.63; grand JL
total 0 ■ fj'.pf--!■: ire, $694,502.75; balance, sls,- |
504.55; the assets including value of school ground, build- Ig
ing, equipment, taxes, sinking funds, etc., total $1,875,421.65 \ |
against liabilities in sinking funds of $1,232,100.00.
STORY A FAKE, SAY POLICE 1 *
Harrisburg. —J. B. Garwood, who told the police he was
*
beaten and robbed of SSO belonging to another man, to-day
was arrested charged with the theft of the money. t
!
AMERICAN SCOUTS CAN'T FIND VILLA •
I [
San Antonia, Tex., Sept. 11.—Scouts of the American '
Army in Mxico have penetrated the Santa Clara canyon in
search of Francisco Villas marauading band and have not 1 >
found it was the substance of a message received to-day by
General Funston from Generl Pershing. I J
SNOW FALLING IN COLORADO
Denver, S<*pt. M.—Colorado's first snow of the season a >
is falling at 7 -** Iville to-day according to reports to the
local wen the- 1 ureau. T - precipitation began last night ,
and amount* to nearly one inch. ' ,
r h 1 KILL FIFTEEN CHINAMEN (
: , £?ept. 11.—Yaquis raided Santa Barbara, ] *
Sonora, tv,;-r.*.y miles southeast of here yesterday, killing
fifteen Chinamen. Fifty-five Indians made up the band, *
which recently rode rapidly north from the Hermosillo dis
trict, burning, killing and looting. I J
ft iRRIACE LIC
Charles Elmer Slide and C'ordellu >1 Inert a Emuilnger, city.
William Herbert Wllkln, Scrnnton, and Mary Derenlce Mamhall, elty.
Paul Wilbur Burtudeld, Enola, nnd Sara Llinrltt Pague, elty. I I
v'w" Vjf \fy N|
10 PAGES CITY EDITION
VOTERS OF MAINE i
SIT IN JUDGMENT
ON PRESIDENT
Fair Weather Is Bringing Out
Big Vote Equally Desired
by Both Sides
PARTIES SEE VICTORY
Republicans and Democrats
Claim Sufficient Progres
sive Support to Win
By Associated Press
Portland, Me., Sept. 11.—Voters of
Maine to the number ot 140,000 or
more went to the polls to-day to elect
a governor, two United States Sena
tors, four representatives in Congress,
a State Legislature and a Stats
Auditor.
National issues have been brought
to the fore and party leaders brought
hundreds of speakers into the State,
Including Justice Hughes, former
Vice-President Fairbanks and mem
bers of President Wilson's cabinet to
persuade the voters to. lino up with or
against the national executive and the
majority in Congress.
Maine, however, is normally Re
publican and the Democratic leaders
insisted that something more than a
scant Republican victory would be re
quired to constitute repudiation of the
administration while a Democratic
[Continued oil Pace 10]
Pershing Unable to Confirm
Rumors That Villa Is on
Raid Toward Border
By Associated Press
Washington. D. C„ Sept. 11.—All
efforts of General Pershing to confirm
persistent rumors that Villa is moving
toward the border in Northern Mexico
so far have been fruitless. The general
made this report to-day to the War
Department:
"Reports regarding Villa's move
ment north have been continually re
ceived through El Paso authorities. So
far these reports cannot be confirmed
here, although every possible source of
information is being used. Patrols at
San Lorenzo from El Valle reached
Santa Clara canyon and about thirty
miles on Chihuahua road, but could
hear nothing of Villa or any move
ment of Villistas. People had heard
rumors of Villistas at Satevo, but
nothing of any action north of there."
