I TODAY'S PRICES
I ,j -n bank notr state billx. UXfc
' I - lk. Mexican Rold. 4c:
j i M N c bar silver. H. A
I p i Mgt'r II w mock steady.
pAeis
HOME EDITION
IMEM
C
WEATHER FORECAST.
El ra and west Texa. unsettled,
hawer. New Mexico, ahimrrs, eoolr.
Irizefia, fair.
J
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SINGLE COPT FlE CENTS
EL PASO. TEXAS. MONDAY EVENING. SEPTEMBER II. 1916.
DELIVERED ANYWHERE 0c A. MONTH
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
5000 TON BRIDGE FALLS: 25 KILLE
OBBMMj n
' i'i i?i i J ec
m -. pju
Tuto Arrests Made In Port
land for Alleged Attempts
To "Repeal."
DEMOCRATS ALSO
CLAIM VICTORY
Wilsoniles Admit Outcome
In Two Districb Is
Still In Doubt.
BORTLAND, Maine, Sept. 1L Elec
tion reports at noon from various
' -- parts of the state Indicate that
" L. heavy Tote had been cast Two ar-
jests for alleged attempts to "repea.'
i re made in thU city.
Th Republicans claim everything
' -R'ti pluralities approximating 1S.00C.
1 he democrats claim pluralities of
"00 They admit the outcome In the
f i-d and fourth congressional dis-t-
cts is in doubt.
May Go Either Way.
f an average is struck between the
t al claims, Maine may be said to be
e u er party's state. Two conclusions,
Iswever, are not disputed.
If Gov Oakley a Curtis is reelected
b the Democrats, the result will oe
a epted generally as an endorsement
c tae administration.
If the Democrats, who now hold one
tfN&e Tour seats in congress, return
congressman Daniel J. McGiUleuddy
ijd capture the second seat. It will .be
tonstrued as showing that the first
and second districts stand etrongly be
Jicd the national executive.
Political conditions have created a
widespread interest in the general elec
t.on in Maine, the earliest to be held in
the country and always regarded by
politicians as a possible forecast of
the national vote for president. The
voters are balloting for two United
. ..., m.tnhr; of COn-
, fctates senaiois, " -
A -ress, governor, sUte auditor and mem
bers or the legislature. In addition
they will decide by referendum whether
islature to limit the labor of women
and children to 54 hours a week and to
provldefor state aid in the building or
brTheMdestination of the Progressive
carty vote, released by the decision of
the party leaders not to maintain a sep
arate ticket, is the key to the situation.
Although the Republicans are confident
that prlctically all of the Progressives
will return to their former affiliation,
the Democrats dispute the contention
and have made vigorous efforts to at
tract the Progressives. In the last
1 presidential year the Progressives cast
4S 495 votes for Roosevelt, while Taft
received :S.545. and Wilson carried the
state with 51.113.
Hnrd Campaign This Year.
In recognition of the unusual situ
ation state Issues were almost entirely
subordinated in the campaign this year.
Xatlonal leaders of the Democratic and
Renublican parties bombarded the state
K .. , I..,.. ..tlllAn. mnhllt.Ml
with tneir ntiw, m,..j, ww...-.
A to an extent unequalled in this state ,
: , memorable vears when James I
' G Blaine of Maine, was a candidate
fJr president. President Wilson did
not come here but campaign addresses
were made by several members of his
cabinet. Democratic senators and mem
bers of the house and others prom!nrt
in the party On both sides the record
of the 'Wilson administration form-3
the central topic of nearly every speech.
The Democrats dwelt chiefly on the
fact that the country had been Kept orr.
' of war and on the prevailing prosper
Wjtv The Republicans headed by Charles
K Hughes, directed their heaviest at
tacks against the Democratic tariff
oolicy and the president's conduct or
Mexican and Buropean problems.
Who Candidates Are.
r"-"i in opposition to Gov. Curtjs, who
-pek reelection, the Republicans nom
inated Carl E. Milllken of Island Falls,
former president of tbe state sena:e
and known as a "Roosevelt Republi
can" For senator the Democrats re
nominated senator Charles F. Johnson
for the full term and named Kenneth
C. M Sills, dean of Bowdoln college, as
their candidate to succeed the late sen
ator Edwin C Burleigh (Republican)
for the term expiring in 1919. The Re
publican nominees for senator are:
Frederick Hale of Portland, son of
it former senator Eugene Hale, In opno
altlon to senator Johnson and former
Gov Bert M. Fernald. of Poland, for
the short term.
Congressman John A. PeK.-s (Repub
lican) and Daniel J. M. McGlllic (Demo
crat are candidates for reelection, be
ing opposed respectively by Bunker of
Bar Harbor, Democrat, and Wallace It
White, jr . of Lewiston The other
nominees for congress are: Republican.
Louis B. Goodall of Sanford. and Ira G.
Hersey. of Houlton: Democratic La
imont A. Stevens of Wells and Leonard
ii pierce of Houlton. State auditor
3 Edward Sullivan, Democrat, Is op
posed for reelection by Roy L. Ward
well of Augusta, Republican
National Guard To Vote.
An interesting feature of the election
will be the participation by members of
the Maine national guard now serving
on the Mexican border. Fourteen hun
dred ballots have been sent to Cot
'Every Day, Watch the Sun Rise
VILLA
Is Youngest Colonel
On Mexican Border
Hulerer'a Portrait Studio. 111H S. El Paso.
COL. HOLME!) B. SPRINGS.
Col. Holmes B. Springs, colonel of
the Second South Carolina infantry
(the Palmetto regiment), is said to be
the youngest national guard colonel on
the border if not in tiie United States
Col Springs is only 3" years of age.
At aome (Georgetown, s. C.) the
colonel is a real estate man and presi-
dent of -the Farmers and Merchants' I
bank, and of the chamber of commerce
of that ertyr- Like most -ofr the- other
national guard colonels now on duty
here, CoL Springs began life as a
private in the militia of his state and
gradually worked his -way to the eagle.
He received his military training at
the South Carolina Military academy
(Citadel). Charleston. S. C and enlisted
as a private in the national guard.
June 11, 189S, in company F. Third
South Carolina infantry ' He was
appointed first sergeant October 3. 1S98.
commissioned second lieutenant ir.
J ray. 1309; captain in October. 1903:
major of? the second battalion. Thin!
Infantry. In March 1907. and lieutenant
colenel February SI, 1909. When the
national guard of South Carolina was
reorganized in May 1915. he was com
missioned colonel of the present regi
ment. This is the regiment. that was
called into service to aid tbe civil
authorities during the polii"-al dis
turbance' in Charlteston. S. C. last
fall, and it won distinction for its
efficiency.
Fank M. Hume. In command of the
second regiment, who will supervise
the voting. The law require- that each
-guardsman must sign his name to his
ballot.
ECO.VD HIKE REGIME.VT
CASTS VOTES AT LAREDO
Laredo. Tex Sept. 11. Members of
the second Maine reelment of national
guardsmen doing duty along the Mexi
can border today voted in the elections
held in their state. A law permitting
this was passed during the civil war.
KENTUCKY TO GIVE WILSON
PLURALITY. SAYS KRBMER
Chicago. I1L. Sept. 11. J. Bruce
Kremer. director of the speakers' bu
reau at western Democratic headquar
ters, returned to Chicago after a visit to
Louisville, where he conferred with
Kentucky Democratic leaders.
"Kentucky will give a large plurality
for Wilson and Marshall," said Mr.
Kremer. "The party is nited and the
organization ictive in that state."
JAPANESE SEND AMERICAN
BORN BABIES TO ORIENT
Tokio. Japan. Sept 11. Attention Is
being called h-re to the growing suc
cess of what is known as the "Baby
Carrier" business between the United
States and Japan The essence of the
idea is the bringing to Japan of Japa
nese babies born in the United States
in order that they may be brought up
in this country and receive their educa
tion here.
Over three thousand babies, K is es
timated, are born everv year to Japa
nese families In California. Manj
families are anxious to hae their chil
dren reared in Japan but are financial
ly unable to bring the babies home.
Consequently hundreds of babies ar
brought here by carriers On each trip
the carrier a Japanese man or a Japa
nese man with his wife brings from
five to fifteen babies and distritutes
them in all parts of the empire, usual
ly at the home of the grandparents.
TUBERCULOSIS SETTLEMENT IS
PLANNED FOR CITY OF MANILA
Manila. P. L. Sept 11. A portion of
Manila, eet aside as a model township
for tuberculous persons and their fam
ilies, is a plan which the Philippine
Islands Anti-Tuberculosis societ has
Just submitted to the municipal board
The society has already acquired :
large tract of land tn the Balic-Balic
district of Manila and Is to establHn
a big sanatorium there
For years the society has maintained
a sanatorium at San Juan del Monte,
a suburb of Manila. San Juan del
Monte Is the site of one of the city
reservoirs and this led to a movement
to change the site of the sanatorium.
Ballc-Balic has been selected, but he-e
the sanatorium is to be the center of
a settlement where relatives of the tu
berculosis patients m&y live.
VANISHED. U. S. SCOUTS SAY
GENERAL Slffif
. IS THBEATESEO
New York Union Men Say
50,000 Workers Can Be
Called Out in Six Hours.
New York. Sept. 11 With the lead
ers of 750,000 labor men of greater New
Yrk threatening a sympathetic strike.
traffic on the subway and elevated
I 1'nes in Manhattan and the Bronx im
, peded. and the surface systems in those
' two boroughs and Westchester county
(.rtually tied up the general strike
situation assumed a more serious as
pect today.
Samuel Gompers, president of the
American Federation of Labor, declined
to discuss the probability of a general
strike, but union leaders asserted that.
If necessary, 58,00 union men could
be called out within six hours.
Traction officials attribute the fall
ing; off in service on the subways and
elevated roads to the unprecedented ln-
i crease in traffic caused by the stop
' page of all the surface lines. Onion
I leaders claimed, however, that the d
I fection of heretofore loyal employes
of the roads was responsible.
San Francises. Cal . Sept 11 The
steamer B"aer. en route from Port
land. Ore. to San Francisco, is racing
e i .
fr this port with a irre rn her alter
hold, according to a wireless message
received .here by her owners, the San
Francisco and Portland Steamship com
pany. The message stated that the fire was
under control and that the passengers
were In no danger.
Season's First Snow
Falls At Leadoille;
Frost For Arizona
Denver. Colo., Sept. 11. Colorado's
first snow of the season Is falling at
Leadville today, according to reports to
the local weather bureau. The precipi
tation began Sunday night and amounts t
IP OH
ICES FOB PORT
i
to nearly one inch- rnan of the Mexican delegation, pre- . conference has been held in Athens,
A light frost, prevalent over Colo- sided. ' Greece, between premier Zaimls and
rado. Arizona and Utah, is forecast by j The American members are counting ' ministers of the Entente allies in which
the local vbserver for tonight. Rain ( on tne personal knowledge of the situ- i the premier is said to have sounded
has been falling in Denver for the i ation which Maj. Gen. Tasker H. Bliss, i the Entente representatives regarding
last IS hours, with the mercury at 45 . assistant chief of staff, will be able to ; the feeling of their governments in the
degrees. I supply on his arrival from Washing- I event Greece would abandon neu-
I ton. Before the meeting began secre- I trallty.
FORD DOES NOT RETRACT tary of the interior Lane expressed The ministers replied that they wel-
xin-irv irirnr CATCPftMTC I confldence that a constructive plan of I corned proposals from the Greek gov
IlAVl LhAbUL olAlCmE.ll 13 action would soon take definite shape. I ernment. which they would submit to
ir..,i.-inr, r f cr.t ii Tim-vl So far there has been nothing more " their own governments.
i,Z,aSSVb,?, Do,1ePfil irf'thl I tn . mention of the .Mexican I Premier ZaimUhad a lengthy Inter-
. . V "rCV-!.!. .;,m;. i . i request tnat uen. persning-s lorces do view wnn King uonstanune on Satur
Dlstnct of Columbia supreme court to- TJV?hl,I.,n , Mir- n,. s., I day and it is sunnosArt that th -it.
Eay V; iVT.t ii h-Tkrv
?" A"?'"?!....!. e.-iTJ
day his answer in the HM.OW salt
ir "t,;i,...:t Ti ttV; !
motives of the league and its officers
in their preparedness propaganda.
Mr. Ford does not retract the state-
haH reason to believe thev were true
and that they had been published
broadcast throughout the country and
made often In congress without bring
ing a denial from the league, so far
as he knew.
Sn.VCKLKTO I-MtTl LIVED
on riRuiN d rtLuiirtEn
London. Eng Sept 11 A message
received here from Punta Arenas. Chile,
describes how the marooned members
of Sir Ernest Snack leton expedition
lived on Elephant island, in the south
Polar region, before their recent rescue. I
The men spent their mornings clearing ,
hw. ouu" ! -... n.,..., '3M-
. iriM I vsa anri o rr'mrtrr n& i
gun. Their afternoons were devoted ,
i .iLlatl nvAri!aAS ei4 ftiotr1 atrfin. I
to athletic exercises and tneir even
ings to concerts
For food they had penguin, blubber,
short rations of biscuits and occasion
ally seaweed.
UROTUKR OF SLAIN M N
KILLS OFFICER. ALLEGED
Dothan. Alabama. Sept. 11. It is
charged that Barlow Driver, Sunday,
shot and killed I. D. Chancey. veteran
marshal of Hartford, who was awaiting
trial at the fall term of the Geneva
county circuit court on an indictment
charging him with having killed a
brother of Driver's at Hartford last
January.
Chancey had claimed he killed
Driver's brother in self defence, the lat
ter resisting arrest.
12 VERO SQUADRONS WILL
1113 TOR31ED IN MIMTIV
New Tork. SepL 11 Twelve aero
squadrons will be formed in the na
tional guard of the United States, it is
ai.nounced by the Aero club of America
The war department is now prepared to
train the hundreds of national guards
men who seek to become naval aviators.
Herald to Give
Maine Election Returns
The Herald will receive bulletins
tonight on the Maine election and
will answer interested inquiries over
the telephone regarding the vote.
No calls will be answered after S.IS.
I I T !
OF 8I0ITS
II CANYON
Gen. Pershing's Men Report
Natives Near Santa Clara
Say Villa Not Seen.
WENT TOCANYON,
SAY CARRANCISTAS
Gen. Pershing Things Villa
Is In the Vicinity Of San
Andres, Near Capital.
,AX ANTONIO. Texas. Sept. 11.
Vi Scouts of the American army In
'' Mexico have penetrated the Santa, i
Clara, canyon In search of Francisco
Villa's marauding band and have not .
found it there.
This was the substance of a message
received today by Gen. Frederick
Funeton iron Brig. Gen. J. J. Pershing,
who said he believed Villa was in the
vicinity of San Andres, about J5 miles
west of Chihuahua city.
This is the first indication In many
weeks that Gen. Pershing's men have
been operating at any distance Irom
their bases
Gen Pershing reported that In the
section traversed the natives professe'
not to have seen or heard of Villa.
Gen. Jose Eliiondo, who engaged
VIM ut Gtrs, anJ latA, rnlltfiWMi tlim
northward, reported to Gen. Jacinto B. 1 by seTeral thousand workingmen
Treyino at Chihuahua aty that Villa aBd goehiHsts. was held, according lo
had goae to the Santa Clara canyon, a,,, newspaper. A resolution was unan-11-.
CottsMluUo?"at troops cjc.- I u, J,.0pted. the Gasette declares.
SI!? ."A E"iU!;"y. J!5; NrginV the Rumanian government to
""" .,"1"0 "Tn" . , j. CI
nave iwr lav pei sctciai wj o c
srocAedine on the assumption that
Villa and his men are in Santa Clara
oanyon.
Persistent rumors that Vllltstas have
appeared in the vicinity of Laguna, on
the Mexican Central railroad line, north
of Chihuahua city, may Indicate that
Villa has left the Santa Clara canyon
and is now near the railroad.
PERSHING'S FORCES TO HELP
PfH.lPF. mTF.RNATinNAI. T.INF.
V. ............ ..w....
New London. Conn.. Sept. 11. The
American-Mexican Joint commission re-
sumed today its efforts to find a solu-
tion of the problems along the interna-
tlonal boundary.
Luis caDrera. cnair-
the PUne for POc"e; the line that have
Ueen talked over, however. Is the re-
the Db. for Miicinir the l.nR that have
ot tne American troops to their
own territory, that movement to be
the first step toward establishing a
permanent system of protection against
border bandits.
me commissioners also atscussea 10- i
day facts relating to border conditions,
lf.iaC.l W-ara?tcf,,.Ch ""ion. it was,
said, the Lnited States may withdraw
its warnings, to Americans to remain
out of Mexico temporarily. This de- i
pends on how far the Carranza gov-i
ernment has progressed toward restor- J
ing order. .
ARMY SERVICES ARE HF.LD
IN CAMPS AND DOWN TOWN
..... ..n. - .... , , - .,.- .
- r
RUaxd camps a, Fort Blisa downtown
in neveland ami,-. -. ' i- --i .
downtown churches Sunday. I
m a . ..
i ne oip .mion meiing- at Camp Kort
Bliss was 'held undav evpnlnc while I
n v.nl . - !
mass was held at Kort Bliss Sunday I
morning. serM.es conducted in all
of the T M i" a. huts and in the
tCffntlnoed on pace 5, CoL 4.)
1UI51L15
IESRJOMLES
Chinamen Are Murdered By
Indians, Raiding North
ward from Hermosillo.
Nogales. Arix, SepL 11. Taquis
raided Santa Barbara. Son, 20 miles
southeabt of here Sunday, killing 15
Chinamen there, according to reports , KING OF GREECE YIELDS
received today at the comandancia in j TO DEMAND OF ALLIES
Nogales, Son j Athens, Greece. Sept. IS. (By way of
Flfty-five Indians make up the band. ! a.lfh'.s .ccel'To Kmand
nhcih recentlv has ridden rapidly , of the entente allies that the Reserv
north from the Hermosillo district ts'. League, of which he is honorary
burning, killing and looting Numbers
of ranchers in the border zone have
made their wa into the cit, while
Carraiiza troop from the garrison
across the bonier were sent in pursuit
Military authorities on the American
side expressed a belief that the Indians
would not attempt to cross the frontier.
or Set: It
HUES BEGIN DRIVE
PLfiNATTflCK
LOXDON. EKG. Sept 11. Attacks on
Bulgaria from both the north and
the south are in preparation by
tbe entente armies in the Balkans. A
movement from the south developed to
day in official news that the British
had taken the offensive on the north-
crossed the Struma river about 40 miles
northeast of Saloniki in an advance
toward the Bplgarian border, after
strong artillery preparation, and are at
tacking the village of Xevolyan. and
Karabjabes.
At the beginning of tbe MaeedonI n
operations last month, the Bulgari: ns
rushed down rapidly from the bor
der and occupied positions in Greek
territory on the right flank of the al
lied defensive lines around Saloniki.
pushing their advance to the Aegean
coast with little opposition.
The present British thrust which may
"
Notable Anti-War Demon
strations in Bucharest,
Berlin Hears.
Berlin. Germany. Sept. 11 (by wire
less to Sayville. 1. T.) Notable anti-
war demonstrations in Bucharest, Ru-
mania, are reported by the Cologne
Gazette. An open air meeting, attend -
rescind its declaration of war.
The Lokal Anzelger reports a serious
revolution has broken out In the por
tions of Dobrudja province still held
by the Rumanians. According to these
ac1 vices, peasants gathered In large
numbers and raised the Bulgarian flag,
the crowds firing at the third battalion
of the Rumanian gendarmes regiment
which was sent to the scene. The rev
olutionists finally dispersed the troops
and made prisoners of 109 of their
number.
, -.,, -, ......- ..t..... ,...
: OKntLli t-UnSULlS tnitWit
j ABOUT JOINING THFM JN WAR
i AD"" JUimnii lnniJl in HAK
; London, Ens.. SepL 1L It is report-
i ed nere from several sources that a
tings have been adjourned nendlnir the
telegraphic advices from the Entente
capitals.
RUMANIAN FORT SEIZED
BY BULGAR-GERMAN ARMY
Berlin Germans cr,t it t i. i
cuufy 'annouTclatB'utgaVla'n and
German forces Invading Rumsmia have
raptured the Rumanian fortress of
sillstria. on the Danube. SO miles
southeast of Bucharest,
The announcement follows
"Sillstria has fallen,
"The Rumanians and Russians during
,ut3 ii lhw aays aDDear to iiavn sur-
I fered very considerable losses."
VIIIEf S-ia 1 An .a. ll s.
manian fortresses on the souTheri nk
of the Danube. It in ?& miiM nAr.K
zMiisina is one or the line jf
east of Turtukai. capture of which by
the Invaders was announced last wmv
The town has about 15.090 inhabitants.
RUSS FAIL IN ATTEMPT
TO CAPTURE HALICZ
Berlin. Germany, Sept. 11. Russian
attempts to capture the town of Hallra
on the Dniester in Galicia. regarded as
the key to the defences of Lemberg
from th southeast, have been frus
trated by the Teutonic forces, accord
ing to today's off clal announcement.
Troops under count von Bothmer
brought the Russian efforts to naugh;.
the statement declared
BULGARIA RECOVERS LOST
TERRITORY; IS CELEBRATING
Berlin Germany. SepL 11 (bv wire
less to Sayville. L. I.). Tue BudaDest
nenspaper Azest says the Bulgarians
who are invading eastern Rumania
have now taken possession of virtually
all the Dobrudja territory which Bul
garia was compelled to surrender to
Rumania at the time of the second
Balkan war. All Bulgaria is celebrat
ing the victories gained over the Rus
sians and Rumanians.
president, be dissolved.
f.ERMVNS Fill. IX EFFORT
TO RECAPTURE Gl.NCHY
London. Eng., SepL 11. Two efforts
were made Sunday by the Germans to
recapture Ginchy. on the Somme front.
from the British hut It l nnA,n..AH
offkially the attacks were beaten off.
Will Keep
Q Mflft AUG h CAVC DliHIRIIA
umg nnh ,h ukm h
w w """ w... w .. wiiu ii a ii i
. . : i I eKTIOfli
-J- i r
QIT BULGARIA; "" ...
I If i I r r IN
mean the beginning of an important of
fensive with the object of placing Bul
garia between two fires, is directed
along the main road to Seres, north of
Tahinos lake, the natural avenue of ad
vance for an army pushing from the
Bulgarian border.
Meantime, the effort to compass Bul
garia Is proceeding on the north with
the reported arrival of Russian troops
in strong force to the offensive against
the Bulgarians who have invaded the
Rumanian province of Dorbrudja. oc
zupying large areas and capturing the
fortresses of Turtukai and Sillstria.
Serljm Are Advancing.
In addition to the British attack
along the Struma, the Servians already
are advancing against the Bulgarians
who some time ago crossed tbe Greek I
frontier near lake Ostrovo and made a I
quick advanc e southward. Since that
lime tne Bulgarians have retired con
siderably under pressure The French
also are forcing the fight bv attacking
nuin uie araar to lake iioiran.
Austro-Hungarian Foreign
Minister Tells of Ruma
nia's Course Before War.
Vienna. Austria, Sept 11 Rumania
i may have
c"ay when
opportunity to regret the
she entered the European
war in opposition to the Central pow
ers, according to baron Stephen Bu
rian von Rajecz, foreign minister of
Austria-Hungary, in an Interview
given The Associated Prase. He stated
this after declaring that the position
of the dual monarchy had been er
roneously characterized by enemies
and certain neutrals as unsatisfactory.
Austria-Hungary 4 far from lylag
uuwu. aut oopw oy some. ssMi tae sola..
Ister.
it is true we would nan peace
mm joy. out not me sort of peace
our enemies would impose. So lon-r
as we have to defend ourselves against
those who want to take part of our
territory, we naturally are unwilling
to discuss peace and so long are also
determined to hold out and win "
No Land Offer to Rumania.
The minister reviewed the situation
prior to Rumania's declaration of war
and eald:
"We offered Rurranla no territorial
concessions at any time after bavins
discovered, in the case of Italy, that
the world was likely to mistake our
reasonable attitude for weakness. N'or
were we ever taken by surprise by Ru
mania. What did fool us was that Ru
mania made up her mind so quickly.
We knew in June, after the setting In
of the latest Russian offensive, that
Rome and Bratiano (the Rumanian
premier) had made a definite bargain.
We also knew that Rumania was not
quite ready toward the end of AugusL
3IUltary Preparations Made.
"For all that, our military authori
ties made all possible preparations.
which did not consist, as has been be
lieved, in holding t le mountain sum
mits and passes alcng the Rumanian
border, but which consisted in th es
tablishment of the line of defence now
occupied by our troops. Contrary to
the general impression, the falling
back of our troops has been of no ad
vantage to the Rumanians, which fact
has finally dawned on the Rumanian
military commanders, since they have
become very cautious recently.
Too Many LIe.
"The military field is not mv de
partmenL I know that Rumania's ac
tion was no surprise, despite the fact
that the Rumanian diplomats lied to
me constantly. Toward the last their
assurances became too fervent and
their lying too patently obvious: so I
reached the conclusion that troub'e
was not far off Whether the declara
tion of war was due on Sundav or
Tuesday. I did not know. But l" felt
It was due. because, in addition, the
reports from Bucharest Indicated that
the Russian pressure was getting mor
severe each day. the Entente govern
ments wanting to add to the weight
of their own futile offensKes in the
east and west and Saloniki. the greit
impression the war declaration wis
expected to make, hut did. In realltv.
not make because we were ready for
1L
Bratiano Played a Good Game.
"I will say that Bratiano plaed a
good game, though. When the En
tente finally had shown all its cards,
Bratiano stiffened up in his own de
mands, which were granted fully some i
time neiore tne outur-ak or tne war.
Then Bratiano thought he would plav
the part of taking from the ustro- j Seattle. Wash., Sept. 11. The steam
Hungarian corpe what he could ship Northwestern arrived from Nome.
"But the Entente had its own no- I Alaska, with seven members of the
tions. which Bratiano learned when j st.-far.nson Canadian arctic expedition
he was told that he was mistaken f that left Victoria. B C. in the whaler
he thought his role was merelv taking Karluk June 17. 1912.
pennies irom a aeaa man ne ii ,
instructed to start immediatel. for
nei" ,SB".,0hw. ..r-'S,
he wanted. The declaration of war
was. therefore, transmitted.
"Well. Rumania will have
good
chance to rue her bargain. If I
not mistaken The fact is. we are fa
from" completely dead, as some think.'
GERMANS CLAIM BRITISH
ATTACKS ARE REPULSED
Br?t1shnfollow!SU,heir HtSt .tterkf '
ous assaults over smaller portions of
tne line. An official report todav says
these assaults were repulsed. The an
nouncement follows:
"Front of field marshal crown prince
Ruprecbt of Baiarla: The great
(Continued on pare 3, CoL 1.)
You Sane"
Thousands See Great Struc
ture, With 90 Men On
Top, Crash Downward.
BRIDGE TO HAVE
COST $17,000,000
Central Portion Is So Deeply
Imbedded, Its Recovery
Is Doubtful
CBBEC. QuL. SepL 1L The new
central span of the Quebec
bridge, the largest cantilever
suspension In the world, collapsed and
fell into tbe SC Lawrence river while
being hoisted into place today. At noon
the SL Lawrence Bridge company esti
mated the dead at 25.
Several hoars after the accident hap
pened ' 1;M ocKvck. a special train
in Quebec brought SO men who had
been injured. Chief engineer McMillan
was among the injured brought here.
He was rescued by a tug. Five bodies
have been recovered. Edward Jorda
nedss. 22 years old. ot Providence, R. 1,
is among the known dead.
The engineer in charge of construc
tion whose name is Porter. James An
derson, a blacksmith, Alfred Cadoret.
who Is badly hurt, and Arthur Cadoret,
Are among the survivors.
Bridget To Cost yi'.WXWOO.
The bridge was being constructed
at a cost of J17,9.(H In order to
shorten the railway Journey from Hall
fax to the Canadian northwest by 200
jrriles. The bridge stands on the site
of the structure which collapsed on
August 29, 197, with a loss of "0
lives.
00 Men Fall With Bridie.
The central span, which fell today
weighs more than 3000 tons and is
640 feet long. The collapse occurred
when the span was abqut la feet in
the air. There were ninety men on the
structure when it felL
Sinks 00 Feet Into River.
The fallen structure sank 200 feet
into the bottom of the river and en
gineers who witnessed the collapse ex
pressed doubts as to whether it would
ever be brought up again.
Observers said that the span broke
In two places first one of the corners
appeared to give way. this being fol
lowed almost Immediately by a break
in the center.
Span Towed Into Position.
The span bad been constructed on
pontoons a few miles east of the bridge
site and was towed into position im
mediately under the gap ft In th
anchor arms of the structure.
Chains 30 Inches In diameter, to
gether with the girders, were then at
tached to the span and SOOO-ton hydras
He jack commenced the stupendous task
of lifting the span into place.
Halting It Waa Week's Task.
This work could be accomplished onlv
a few feet an hour, and as the distance
from the river level to the floor of
the bridge is 150 feet, the engineers
had not counted on completing the
operation until the end ot this week.
or later. The bridge was to have been
ready for train service next spring.
marking an important milestone tn
Canada's engineering railway history.
Thousands Witnessed Crash.
The Juggling ot 5000 tons of steel
under unprecedented circumstances at
tracted several thousand spectators, in
cluding members of parliament and
newspaper men gathered on vessels
furnished by the Canadian government.
Members of the dominion cabinet wit
nessed the collapse from the deck of
a sovernment vessel, while American
tourists crowded hundred! of other
boats of all classes.
Project Originated In IS53.
The project interrupted today origi
nated in 1852. when at the request of
the Quebec city council a New Tork
engineer submitted plans and esti
mate PART OF STEFANNSON'S
EXPLORERS RETURN SOUTH
Th man am rr Riulolnh r ln4.
son. of Des Moines, la., second to
Stefannson in command of the expedl-
tion: John J O'NellL c-eolocist of Port
Colborne. Ont. : John R. Cox. topogra
pher, Otawa. Ont Diamond Jenness.
anthropologist. Wellington. N Z.; Frits
Johansen. naturalist. Copenhagen.
George H. Wilklns. photographer. Lon
don, and Kenneth G Chipraan. topo-
SSkS'Z. 7iZ, ??Z2S? Si!
R?'.1 to -the cnd'an government on
Tn!rten members of the Stefanrson
P"8"" " "O""-
23 r.lR.l LYSIS DEATHS
IN NEW YORK IN -IS HOI RS
i New Tork. SepL 11 In the last 1?
hours there were 23 more deaths from
I infantile .paralysis here, bringing the
1 total to il2L
Thoreau
W
