TIME
VOL. XX NO. 151.
1UKKK. VKHMOXT, MON'DAY. SKPTKMUKH II, 1010.
riUCE, OXK CEXT.
THE BARRE
DAILY
NG ERECTED
QUEBEC BRIDGE
BE!
FELL IN MIDDLE
Hue Central Span Carried Down a
Large Number of People While
Thousands Looked On As Monstrous
Weight Was Being Juggled Into Position
BRITISH CROSS
RIVER STRUMA
Have Launched an Offensive
in Greek Macedonia and
Attacked Bulgarians
SANK 200 FEET INTO .
ST. LAWRENCE RIVER
TWO VILLAGES ARE
THE FIRST OBJECTIVES
Bulgarians Are Said to Be
Resisting the Advance
Desperately
The Bridge Was Being Built at Cost of
17,000,000 to Replace Structure
Which Collapsed Nine Years ago and
Caused 70 Deaths
Quebec, Sept. 11. The nevcentral span of the Quebec bridfre,
the largest cantilever suspension in the world, collapsed and fell
into the St. Lawrence river while it was being hoisted into place
to-day, with the probable large loss of life. Ninety men were
on the structure when it fell.
Paris, Sept. 1 1 . Hi it ih troops on ttie
front in Greek Macedonia tank the of
fensive last night. They crossed the
Struma river, the war office says, and at
lurked the Bulgarians, who are resisting
desperately, having pained n footing on
the eastern Kink at a point 40 miles
northeast of Snlnniki. The British at
tacked the village of Nevolven and Ka
ra bjabes.
FRENCH ALSO MOVE
IN MACEDONIA
Take Part in Great Offensive Campaign
Started in Macedonia Bulgarians
Begin to Retire North
Under Pressure.
generals; 21, Ml mi wounded soldiers, two
(lags, and more, than lH modern cannon,
among which were two lotteries stolen
ill U 1.1.
"The Rumanian hn.se, in dead
wounded were enormous. Manv Hn
noui inn soldiers were drowned in the
Punula during the (light in paic."
Berlin and v lenna concede a gain o
"round to the Russian in the Cur
patliiaioi near Zahie, to the west of Shy
pot. I lie lumsians, say lierlm. are on
the offensive, from the Haltie to the
wooded height of the Carpathian, hut
everywhere except near Shypot their at
lark have heeii repuNcd.
Attemp bv the Russians to break
through the Au-trian line southeast o
l.emherg, near llalic, failed, according to
Vienna, with heavy losses. I he Vienna
statement mention the gallantry of
the Iiirkisli torees lighting with the An
triaiiH in this region.
ITALIANS TAKE
STRONG POSITIONS
From Uie Austrian on Trentino Front
and Also Gained Ground in Up
per Posina Valley.
Rome, via 1ondoii. Sept. II. --Italian
troop liHe raptured a strong Austrian
position in the Echo valley on the Tren
tino front, the war ofliee annouiieed to
day. Ground also wai gained in the. up
per Posina valley. t
DROPPED DEAD ON STREET.
Ixrndon. Sept. 11, The conclusion is
drawn from the ofhVinl French report in
regard to the operation in Macedonin
that an offensive campaign has been in-
aWL'iirated. In addition to the British
attack along the Struma, the Serbians
liri. lilt'! lull' Mill uni.ilW Ufoliti.t tliA Itnl
The collapse occurred when the span was about 15 feet in the Unman who some time ago crossed the
1 4U i. ...u:-i. ...:uj k aaa l, nrn i frontier near Lake O-trovo ami
tin, tiim lilt; Miuibuic, which niriKiicu imh.-i, .iiiiin iti t iu
Ihe bottom of the river. Engineers who witnessed the collapse
expressed doubt whether it ever could be brought up again.
The bridge was being constructed at a cost of $17,000,000, in
order to shorten the railway journey from Halifax to the Canadian
Northwest by 200 miles. It stands on the site of the structure
which collapsed in August 1907, with the loss of 70 lives.
The central span broke in two places; first one corner appeared
to give way, and this was followed almost immediately by a break
in the center as well. Several thousand spectators who were at
tracted by the juggling of the monster span witnessed the disaster
from pleasure boats on the river. The number included members
of Parliament, members of the Dominion cabinet, and many Amer
ican tourists, as well as many Canadian and American authorities
on bridge building and engineering. Many newspaper men also
witnessed the collapse.
The St. Lawrence Bridge company at noon estimated the dead
at 25.
MORE UNIONS PLAN
TO JOIN STRIKE
to organize, the right to strive rationally
and normally for the improvement of
the condition of their employes to have
submitted to a board of arbitration, such
differences which the committees of the
employes and representatives of the com
pany fail to adjust."
SITUATION MORE SERIOUS.
Great Tie-Up in New York City Planned
Out of Sympathy for Car Men
Gompers Arrives to Add
His Influence.
New York, Sept. 11. A strike of stage
employe, longshoremen, brewery work
ers, machinists, bartenders, moulders and
printers in sympathy with the unionized
carmen who quit their places four days
ago, was decided upon at a meeting of
the heads of their unions lat night, ac
cording to an announcement, by Hugh
Frayne, state organizer of the American
Federation of Labor.
A resolution was passed .calling upon
all unionized wage earners in Greater
New York, Ycnkers, Mount Vernon,
White Plains and New Rot-hello to sane-(strike and other union lenders asserted
Greater New York Threatened with Sym
pathetic Strike.
New York, Sept. 11. With the leaders
of the 7"0,000 labor men of greater New
lork and vicinity threatening a sympa
thetic strike, traffic on the subway and
elevated lines in Manhattan and the
Bronx impeded and the surface systems
of those two borough and Westchester
county virtually tied up, the general
strike situation assumed a more serious
aspect to-day.
Samuel Gompors, president of the
American Federation of Labnr, declined
to discuss the probability of a general
maae a quick aiiv.tnee soiittiwaro. Mnce
that time the Bulgarians have retired
considerably under pressure. The French
also are forcing the lighting, attacking
from the riVcr Yardar to Lake Doiran.
GINCHY STILL HELD
BY THE BRITISH
Germans Made Two Attacks on Town
They Recently Lost but Were
Beaten Off.
London. Sept. 11. Two efforts were
made yesterday bv the Germans to re
capture Ginchy on the Somme front from
the., British, but it was announced offi
cially that the attacks were beaten off.
Charles N. King of Portland, Me., Was
Visiting in Montpelier.
On hi return trip from the Monfwlier
post office late this forenoon, Charles N.
King of Portland. Me., who had been
visiting his Bisters in Montpelier for
some weeks, dropped dead at the corner
of Cliff and Court.. M reel in Montpelier
at 11 o'clock, death being due to heart
disease. The body wad removed to the
Wilton undertaking rooms. .Mr. King
had Ix'en in poor health for two years
but recentlv had seemed to show somt
improvement. He was planning to re
turn to Portland during the latter part
of the week. His si-ters residing
Montpelier are Mrs. Harriet I.acroix an
Miss Georgian King, whose home is at
1 Cliff street.
Mr. King was born in Williston about
)." y ears ago. For some year he reside
in Burlington, being employed as janitor
bv the light and power company there
and aNo bv the Wells. Richardson com
panv. He leaves his wife and live chil
Iren, Joseph. Albert, Leon. Madeline an
Claire, all of Portland; also two broth
ers. YV. L. King of Dallas, Tex., and II. J
King of Gardner, Mass., and three sis
ters, the third besides those already
named being Mrs. Marv Mecre of Port
land. Me.
The funeral arrangements have not
been completed but the burial will prob
ably be in Burlington.
BAROMETER
STATE ACTS
Democrats Claim Scant Plu
rality in Maine Would
Satisfy Them
NATIONAL ISSUES
IN CAMPAIGN
Uimlt.swJc. t CnAnl-n TV. feature of this years event.
"u,,l"VUJ Ui Ivivvio v fasltpr orN,.s )lave b(.on )t,.r,,(l j gl
STATE FAIR OPENS
EARLY ON TUESDAY
Everything Is In Ttacc and No Depart
ment is Lagging There Are Two
Trotting Events for the
Opening Day.
White River Junction, Sept. II.--The
tenth annual exhibition of the Vermont
state lair will open here to-morrow. Ev
erything is in place for the opening day.
mi iicpMitnieni is lagging. itlt llie
rising of the hum on the morrow the
gates will lie thrown open to the public
with a lirt class exhibition awaiting tlm
crowds of sightseeing, amusement seek
ers sure to come.
The Mate lair commission has been
generous m its premiums and this has
brought its ot exhibitors in every de
partment. Track events will be a strong
More and
FEW CONTESTS
UP TO VOTERS
Fletcher-Page -Gates Cam
paign for Senator Is
Most Important
m mmmm
PRIMARV PENS AT
ON TUESDAY
to Break Democratic
Hold
Portland. Me., Sept. 11,
events and the trotting loving public will
Hint that their love tor the trot will be
amply satisfied.
President Estee of the State fair com
mission is giving his personal direction
to things and with Secretary Davis is
Tne voters '''rtiiig every effort to make this event
of Maine to the number of 140,000 or
the crowning one.
The Vermont Mate fair has won an
more went to the polls to-day to elect, a enviable, reputation as a cattle show. It
governor, two I lilted Mates senators, may be slated that the rattle exhibit
four representatives in Conirress. the to be seen this year is superior to any
state lm.iMlir A . j;,,r previous State fair, both as to numbers
.. . , . , , , , .... ""d quality of stock. The Morgan horse
.Miuonai issues nan ren nrougni 10 me (i ,av wj (Q fornpr wiU
lore ana party leaders Drought nnnnreas manv new exhibitors.
of speakers into the slate, including for- With good weather the attendance is
mer Justice Charles E. Huchr. former xPp:t,',. exc-("1 11,1,1 ol "' previous
... . , , , , ... fair hijd here, and this dc-pite the nil
ioe Pres. Fairbanks and members of the . ... . . . f . '. . , .
Wilson cabinet to persuade the voters to missions must not be granted children
line up against the national executive under Id years of Hge
and the maioritv in t'onrress. J nc two trotting events on the open
" " 1 : ,i :ii i... ..! t i.iia
i i -w-t t ink iJy win ut: k uvi mm 4.1 t,n
" " .7. . 'V na
. aim nH.A,Gy. 1 n .j ...... 1 -
an, aim iu- irnnK iaur irnuri n inmnL'-iji 'pi - j 1 1 ...'II
(hut kfttnpt hiner n nra than a acianr li . I . "
ublicHn victory would 1 required to
'onntittitt k Kepubliran administration
Pollin .aces Will Close All
Tn ugh Vermont at
8 p. m.
I a Democratic plurality, however ,.nes h"h " 1 re ?ln!: t
nail, would be accepted bv them as an l1"?1'1 h"rM- V,' '"J?"1 brf' 4"
EDSON F. HOLDEJT.
ITALY PROPOSES
TO USE BLACKLIST
Government Will Use Those Arranged by
Great Britain and France and May
Add Some Names to It.
Parisfi Sept. 11. The Italian govern
ment has decided to adopt the black
list system in principle, according to a
home dispatch to Hie Matin. The dis
patch savs that the lists alreadv drawn
up by trance and Kngland will be ued
with whatever additional names the
Italian government decide upon.
tion a strike "in support of the conten
tion of the street, railway men of their
l ight to organize. J he resolution rec
ommends tiuit the workers in the various
trades "lav doirn their tools until the
companies are forced to recognize the
carmen s union.
According to Frayne approximately
75O.0U0 men and women are enrolled in
the unions which were represented at the
meeting last night.
The delegates it was said discussed the
possibility of collateral street railways
assuming the attitude of officials in the
Interborough Rapid Transit company and
the other lines involved in the strike
here who at the present time "recognize
the union but insist upon intimidating
their men to ignore it." The delegates
were unanimously of the opinion it was
asserted, that the action of the transit
managers "was something that affected
trade unionism as a whole."
Pefore a sympathetic strike can be de
clared, however, the union leaders ex
plained it would be necessary for them
to call muss meetings of their respective
union- and put the proposition to a vote
of C'e members. The delegates at the
meeting hist night, it was said, assured
William H. Fitgerald. organizer of the
c-irmcn's union, that ther members were
Milling to light to a finish, morally,
physically an. I financially in the inter-ci-t
of trade unionism.
lfficia!s of the railway companies,
wlu-n informed of the action of the union
leaders, asked whether the building
trades were t ) lie included in the rec
ommendation for a sympathetic strike.
They were told that no action with re
spect to these trades had Iw-en taken.
Samuel (iompers. president of the
American Federation of Ijsbor, who ar
rived here vesterdav afternoon in re-
that if necessary ,)0,000 union men could
be called out within six hours
BANGOR FIRE THREATENED.
Waterfront Blaze Caused Loss of $75,000
Sunday.
Ilangor, Me., Sept. 11. Fire on the
waterfront early yesterday morning
caused a loss of about $75,000 and at one
time threatened a general conflagration
which was averted only by the combined
fire departments of Bangor and Prewer
and favorable weather conditions. The
los is fully insured.
The heaviest losers are the Stickney &
Ha brock Coal company and the Hiticks
Coal company. The two had about 8.000
tons of coal in stock, mostly anthracite.
It did not get well under wav and was
deluged with water and extinguished.
The loss on the coal is estimated at from
10 to 20 per cent and about .r00 tons
went into the river, which can be recov
ered with some loss.
A new discharging tower owned jointly
by the two concerns, which cost about
.:?.-,rKHt. is a total lo,s. The Stickney &
Rabcock company had about 3.0imi tons of
coal and lost much of the wooden coal
pockets, but the office and scales were
saved. The llincks company lot practi
cally all of their sheds, ' stable, nine
coal carbs, office and wale. Nine horses
were rescued with some difficulty.
The Eastern Steamship corporation's
terminal immediately adjoining was
tnreatene.1 but not, damaged. The shir
ATHENS SEETHING
WITH UNREST
Infantry and Cavalry Patrol the Street3
and Entente Legations Are Closely
Guarded.
Athens, Sept. 11. The city is virtually
under martial law. Patrols of infantry
and cavalry parade the streets and the
entente legations are under strong
guards. Fifteen hundred marines have
been added to the garrison here on ac
count of the uncertainty in regard to the
attitude of the troops. The excitement
caused by the army disaffections at Sa
loniki, however, are dying out.
FIVE NIGHT ATTACKS
WERE PUT DOWN
BY THE FRENCH
Germans Tried to Regain Positions On
the Somme, Using Burning Liquids,
But Were Repulsed.
Paris, Sept. 11. Five times last niuht
the (lermans attacked positions newly
won by the French on the Somme front,
but the war ofliee says they were re
pulsed each time with heavy losses. The
Hermans employed burning liquids in
their attacks. The lighting occurred
south of the Somme from liernv to the
region south of Chaulnes.
Well Known South Barre Man Died Sat
urdav Afternoon.
Kdson F. Holden. a resident of South
Barre, passed away Saturday afternoon
at the Kenton hospital in Montpelier,
where he had been removed for an opera
tion for appendicitis, complications fol
lowing that caused his demise.
Kdson rislior Holden was born in
Fiarre, March lit, 174, the son of Kli and
I.ucv (Howard! Holden. lie attended
common schools and Goddard seminarv
On Nov. 7, 1WI1, he married Marv Stone
of Randolph, who survives him. They
had three children, a son and two daugh
ters. Mr. Holden has alwavs been one
of Barre Town's most respected citizens
and he served the town as both cemetery
commissioner and auditor. Early in life
he acquired the Holden homestead and
has always lived there.
Besides his wife, he leaves a son. Fred;
two daughters. Stella and Bertha; five
sisters, Ellen Holden and Mis. F. K, Burr
of this city, Ida Holden and .fennie Hol
den of Boston, Mass., and .Tosie Holden
of Brockton. Mass., nd two brothers,
Howard Hohion of Middlcboro, Mass.,
and diaries Holden of Binghamton, N. Y
Funeral services were held from the
Holden farm in South Barre at, 2 o'clock
this afternoon. Rev. John B. I'eardon of
the t'niversalist church, ofTiciaCtnc. Bur
ial was in the famHv lot at Elm wood
cemetery.
small,
endorsement.
FORMER BARRE RESIDENT.
begin to-morrow at 0 o'clock
In the horse exhibit there are 225 en-
are
ex
hibition other than those of regular
lasses, 10 Welsh and u other ponies, 0
Percheron, 3 Suffolk Punch, and 7 Bel
gians. A big leaturc is over lilteen en
tries for the state cup on sinirle drivers.
wimam L. Mattord Died at Daughter's The strincs of E. A. Dar nir. A. F. Phi
Home in Whittier, Cal. bps, H. H. C. Vats.n, and the Evarts
t- f 1 111 : "'" v...... ,'i a.. . tti., w.v.
. i. .-unuiiiu, uiiiT wcu Known rem- 0rt,. i,.. f wl,;i.; ...-.nt.
I ... .c T, I: . 1 li-L'..r. .. .'.'JiKn . A.i.u.t "1L1I ........
,eut narre, .i.e., at miner, a... npw ,... M,- I),lnhr with her stand-
,-eoi.. ami Mineral sen ices were iiem in urA , . tr; j yi- t, f
mar piace w ,n nuria. m me lam.i.v iot. prIjn x lln exhj))if of ga(Mle
in Mount Olive cemetery in Mh.tt.er, Anib ho ftunjt j the horse
rf. riniiKiiii v . jJUKuee comiucmiir loc
exhibit, as well as the magnificent Per
cheron stallion and mares, and Belgian
ing to the Balsam Stock farms of Dix
ville Notch. X. H.
The exhibit of sheep include, Hamp-
sire Downs, Nouthdowna, I beviots, .Mer
inos, Shropshire, Jicesters, Oxford
ins, Cotswolds, Horned Dorset and
burial service,
..Tl. . .. -e C--l . nr. ,n maun
pnssuFg oi -or. .-miioru, says a . ..!;., ..J ..a ..-;.!, f.i. Kl
.. .... - , ntniin'in nun inrairs mm ivnio, in inii
t.he late years of his life, for it was evi
dently without a struggle; he simply
went to sleep, and when Mrs. Stafford
endeavored to arouse him she found that
the angel of death had preceded her and ., .'
i,j ..n.i u; .......... i ,j.. lJow
uu loudi mill n. nil rinimi ua t . n . - I . 11 , t
A large number of the older residents . .. . ' . , , v. , .
of Barre remember Mr. Stafford and his . , ... , .. . . ' J ',
t . .t ! j i J.v lIUVII llitT ami till: vurs mat i;ioa
family, as they lived here many years f ,
Olftt. rwfnre their ncnsirrnre for I alifnrnlAl . r
ti E. L. (ompton, No. Clarendon, r ill more
c,,-f ,r t. "s;((r,i u..;fi ' "f Bennington,.!. I. S. Hamilton
n-itl. the ranite iodustrv. heinir a mem- Bridport. M. Hannah. Brow nsville .Ja. k- Gov. Gates has paid little, direct atten
her nf the firm of .1 It Rtchel,7pr P so" Brothers. ergeniies. Long Branch
.... - " ' " ' - - " tle i 1 ' 1
,.;a .... m;ii r.-. iarin oi rooiiiniii, -lie.
",a , uiu itsii inn .uninkuiiv ii.M. ,i i , . . ,.f
w A in the mercantile business in ..
After a campaign of almost unex
ampled bitterness on the part of two
candidates for the Republican senatorial
nomination and only scattered contests
for other positions, Vermont voters will
go to the polls to-morrow for the first
real test of the primary system of nom
ination. From 12 o'clock noon until 8
o'clock p. m. they will be given an op
portunity in each of the cities and towns
to register their personal preferences for
the men to be voted for at the regular
state election on Nov. 7, next.
When they go to the polls they will
have five separate ballots placed in their
hands, on which will appear only the
names of candidates in two parties, tho
Republican and the Democratic, none
other having been filed. First there will
be the "official primary election ballot"
for United States senator, and the voter
will find the names of Allen M. Fletcher
of Cavendiish, Charles W. Gates, Frank
lin, and Carroll S. Page, Hyde Park, un
der the designation of Republican, and
Oscar C. Milier, Newport, the sole occu
pant of the Democratic column. Tho
senatorial fight in the Republican party
is the feature of the whole primary that
is attracting the most attention. ..Ex
(iov. Fletcher has been waging a hard
campaign for months, and some say for
years, to secure a seat in the United
States Senate and during the past few
months he has concentrated his political
guns on the position held by Senator
Page, who seeks to succeed himself.
Senator Page accepted the Fletcher chal
lenge and entered the contest with the
vigor of a much younger man. The re
sult has been a heavy battle of printer's
ink largely, but with the resort to per
sonal correspondence and the personal
interview not overlooked.
In the meantime Gov. Gates entered
the contest, and his is the third name in
the list before the voters to-morrow.
Marre, having a shoe store Rt the corner
of North Main street and Depot square.
ferent breeds. An event during tho fair
will be the sale of Southdown at auc-
Mr. Stafford was an enthusiastic horse110" !
lover and is recalled bv manv people for ,ne"1 ,arm. "l -"'""'eoiiry , i.
his interest in that line. ' L The f'ine exhibit comprises Poland
William Llovd Garrison Stafford was 1 h",a- WrKsmre . nester unite, jersey
born in Haverhill. N. H., the son of John Ke. , , ,D T
S. and Eli.a (Carrl Stafford. April 13. 9hown h' - AUnch Billings farms,
1842. He enlisted at the beinnnimf of Prooktield farms, A. P. Dunsmore, A. G.
the Civil war with the 13th Illinois cav- Hoitt, C. A. Neal, Otis Hill farm, t 1.
alrv. his narents havintr removed to Illi- l'irce. I., tl. rsavage, nr. ri. v.. J innnam,
noi'a shortly before the outbreak of the Upway farms, S. D. Wright and F. W
After serving out that enlistment Surham
QUINCY HAS PLAGUE.
of
RUMANIA LOSES FORTRESS.
Silistria On Eastern Bank of Danube Has
Fallen.
Now a Total of Four and Board
Health Takes Action.
yuincv, .bis., .ept. 11. 1 wo new
caes of infantile paralysis were report
1 in tins city yesterday, 'making a total
f tour. One vi-tim isEdward Barry,
two years old, son ol Mr. and Mr. and
Mrs. .lohn Barry of 2(iti Willard street.
The other case, a very mild one, was re
ported from Intervale street. South (Juin-
y.
The death of Margaret Rogers, the
seven-year-old daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
William Rogers, corner of Quarry ..street
extension and the Boulevard, at first
thought to have been eau.ed by infantile
paralysis, was pronounced yesterday aft
ernoon as due to acute enteritis.
On account of the prevalence of the
disease in the West Ouincy district. Rev.
! Thomas R. McCoy, pastor of St. Mary's
j church, yeterday suspended the Sunday
school socions at his church.
The board of health last evening voted
to have a physician stationed at every
school to examine each pupil every day.
It was alo voted to refuse admission to
chil. Iren to all theatres and moving pic
ture houses.
he re-enlisted in the 17th Illinois cavalry
nd remained in the service to the end of
the war, being commissioned a lieuten
ant.
For a few years after the war he was
located in California, but in 1S7H be re
turned east and took up his residence in
St. .lohnshurv, becoming interested in
the fork and hoe industry. He came to
Barre in ISSti. While in Barre he was a
member of V'incitia lodge. Knights of
Pythias. The family left Barre in 1S115
Over 51)0 head of cattle are shown of
the different breeds, and this exhibit in
cludes sixty head of oxen.
TOUR TO N0RTHFIELD.
Board of Trade Will Make Run There
Wednesday, Sept. 20.
The Barre Hoard of Trade are making
final arrangements for their sixth and
probably last get-together or better ac
,. ,.' . . , '.' . nuaintanee tour of the season, with
for ( aliforn.a. the parent being located t, ,,:.,:,. u will
at Whittier most of the time since then. : , , '. , J '. .... an
For a number of years he conducted the p,"T T ' I -
llotel Whittier, but of late had not been
actively engaged in business.
He is survived bv his wife, who was
All Board of Trade members with their
ladies are requested to make their ar
rangements and go to Northfield on this
lennie L. Miller of St. Charles. 111.; and f,'f810"; , u. fl
i ne noaru oi jihui- vuujiumut
dently expect that this will prove the
htmncr trio of the lOlii season. The
weather being pleasant, they prophesy
a combined attendance 01 ironw two 10
five children, namely: Mrs. Helen M.
Smith, wife of William A. Smith of
Whittier and with whom Mr. and Mrs
Stafford made their home in recent
years; Mrs. Isalielle Dunlap of Fullerton,
Cal.. Mrs. Adelaide Fisk of Corcoran, Cal.,
Paul Stafford, now on the editorial staff
of the San Francisco Bulletin, and Phil
ip Stafford of Sacramento, Cal.
JUDGE HOWE GIVES DINNER.
Bar
TAL OF THE TOWN
Entertains the Caledonia County
Association.
Bretton Woods, N. H., Sept. 11. Mem
bers of the Caledonia County Bar asso-
iation of Vermont were the guests of
ludge Harland B. Howe of St. .lohnsbury
at a dinner in the Mount Washington
bampict room Saturday evening. Among
the 34 guests attending were .fudge
Henry ('. Ide. ex ambaseador to Spain
under Pres. Taft; Judge lighton T.
Slack, Robert W. Simond. Elisha -May,
Walter P. Smith. Harry Blodgett, A. F.
Nichols. Alexander Punnet t, Davis E.
Porter. Judge George C. Frye. Judge Wil
liam Taylor. Rolfe Searles. Guy W. Hill,
Joseph Fairbanks. Harvey Witters. Ar
thur Graves. Nathan A. Norton. Walter
Pulton. Melvin (J. More. Bernard Mul
cahy. Oliver Cameron, Hutton Longmore,
Charles Shields, Walter Wesley and Wil
liam M Reynolds. A few of the diners
spent Sunday here with friendi.
Pres.
sponsc to an appeal from the New Yoik
Central Feieratid union, issued a state- j ble nd spread with rreat rsm.l.iv T,,.r
ment in which he referred to Ihe "efforts' no hipninc at the whirvn'in J,.i
of the beads of the lnterlorongh. which
operates the subway and elevated rail
way line, anl official of the various
surface car roads affected by the strike,
""t crush the spirit of organiraGon af
f, tin? the employes of thce railroads.'"
Mr. Goinprrs asserted that the carmen
vers determined to "exerc:e their rirht
London, Sept. 11. Continuing their
advance in western Dobrudja. the tier-
man and Bulgarian forces have
captured the old Bulgarian fortress of
Silistria on the eastern hank of the Dan
ube about 25 miles northeast of Turtu-
kai and !' miles east ol rlucharest. the pities motoring along the Williams-
capital ol Rumania, ami anout an equal ;tmvn !,- roaj Ve-terdav afternoon re
distance south ot t tie t onstana-Inicbar- I p,11t sn a.-cid.-nt that occurred at the
est railway line. The capture of .the ; ,,,.. f .;, ;.,. that . nY-emU frr-m th
iiacKsmun snop and the bio. k factory "f j lortresa is announced PT mo rerun w ar 1 Willis mstown and Hrookticld line at
T. F. Cassidy A Co.. lietween t he t wo ! ofliee. which adds that the Rumanians j yu. i,jl. o definite names can be a
eoal plant, suffered damage to huilding and Russians fiahtinj in IVibrudja appar-, , Prf sined in conn'-otion with the .-nllision
and stock estimated at $.Vono. jently have suffered heavy losses during I lt flie ears that met were a P.ui.k tour-
The origin of the fire is unknown. It jthe last few days. j jn? ,ar headed south and a Ford touring
b-oke out in the rear of the II,... I- The official reooit from IVrlin states: ... t l,l-.,,.l .;h fiv ti.-
'We captured t he t hirt y-tourt h. t hirt v- Kni, k ear was said to tie houlini il.mo , nurht that the condition of his iier.
hipping at the wharves, in Han. i fifth, thirfv sixth, fortieth. seentv-ja m.Wte rate of Rrni1 uhrn fli ! 4nne Hove, who is rriticAjv ill at Wr
ger. Ihe fire delayed the Roston and j f-'iirth. seventy ninth, eightieth and eigh- Kord shot oier the pitch ot the ,UI. run- ! lxndon. ( onn.. has taken a turn for the
M. John express train nearly three hours, ty fourth infantry regiments and l,ijnln; inVi tlie radiator .f the Pun k er,;ore. The president immediately can
as many lines of hne fn irriw the battailions of a rer-mient of r. nlsrme. .....V.n-. n. of t hr w heelr -ol .1 .m.r. ' eelleil all enr-acements f.,r tn.rfv m'nJ n.
We also captured !l the arti lery of 1hejjn ihe radiator of ihe Ruirk. The Ford noumnl he would tart for New U-ndon
fortress an I plentiful upr!ies of am-j wa tadly rteh-"d and the w i eeU were early in the morning. He planned to ni
munition. ri:'e. mchiie gur.s, et- Up I somewhat damaged but the s - upsnt tor to New ork and go fr.m there bv
to the present we have counted ot-iwre able to f.rr ce1 on their miv. whde'rail to New lxnlon. leaving New York
HEARS SISTER IS WORSE.
Wilson Made Plans to Go to New
London at Once.
1-ong Branch. N. .?.. Sept. II. Presi
dent Wilson received word late lat
three thousand people at the supper ta
ble. It is the present intention to con
clude the evening with dancing. Carroll's
orchestra of Barre w ill furnish the music
for the dancing and during the supper
hour.
The Barre band will give an outdoor
concert and the Barre Board of Trade
will show alvmt l."t pictures of Barre
and hor industry We believe these get
t "Bet her occasions are beneficial and far-
teaehina in their effect and from a moral
and social standpoint are very desirable
as an incentive for the development of a
larger and broader community and equal
ly so with the citizens of our neighbor
ing community with whom we come in
contact.
Tickets for the supper are 30 cents
each, and each ticket entitles to supper
and a free automobile ride to and trotn
Northfield. Please offer the use of your
automobile for this occasion to the com
mittee: B. W. Hooker, tiny R. Varnum,
K. C. Glvsson. or F. H. Rogers. Supper
tickets can be purchased of the above
committee or of H. A. Phelps.
H. A. PHELPS' STATEMENT.
tion to the fight, preferring to keep him
self busied with the duties of his office
as chief executive of the state, lie prob
ably has spent little or nothing in fur
therance of his campaign, while, on the
other hand, Fletcher and Page have ex
pended thousands of dollars apiece.
Sworn statements of their expenses pub
lished some time ago showed that each
had spent more than $j.i'fMl up to that
time.
The second ballot and containing thrt
only two other contests of general inter
est is the state ticket. The Dcmoeratio
slate is uncontested, the list of candi
dates being as follows: For governor,
William B. Mayo of Northfield: for lieu
tenant governor, Henry C. Kristin of
Rutland; for treasurer. Orlo E. I.uce of
Stowe; for secretary of state, Thomas
B. Wright of Burlington; for auditor of
accounts, Jeremiah C. Durick of Fair
Haven; for attorney general, Frederick
L. Webster of Swanton.
The unique position held by those six
Democrats is also shared by Horace F.
Graham of Craftsbury 011 the Republican
side, Mr. Graham's name being the only
one filed for governor; so, barring the
unforeseen. Mr. Graham will eventually
step from the office of the state auditor
to that of chief executive of the state.
The first of the two contests on the state,
bicket is for the lieutenant governor
nomination, Roger W. Hulburd of Hydo
Park and John E. Weeks of Middletmry
being opposed to each other. Walter F.
Scott of Brandon has no opposition to
renomination as state treasurer. Guy
W. Bailey of Essex Junction likewise U
unoppot-ed for secretary of state. For
auditor of accounts there are two candi
dates, Thomas H. Cave. jr.. of Bane and'
Benjamin Gates of Montpelier; and be
tween them there has been a merry lit
tle contest. Herbert G. Barber of Brat
tlcboro will have the nomination for at
torney general handed to him on a silver
platter.
The importance of the senatorial eon
test has rather overshadowed the fact
that Porter If. Dale's term In the na
tional House is about to expire; but a
third ballot handed to the voters will
serve to remind them that the Brighton
man is the Republican candidate to suc
ceed himcelf. while G. Herbert Pape of
Barre. Democrat, is opposing him.
There are three blank columns on the.
Washington county ticket, topped by the
names Prohibition. Progressive and So
cialist. The contests in the other col
umns are few. Four Republicans ara
trying for three senatorial nominations,
their names being Frank C. Bancroft of
Barre Town. Bertram! R. Demeritt of
Duxburv. Henrv F. Hill of Waterhure
and F. E. Steele of Montpelier. Therfl
are three candidates for the two assist
ant judge nominations. Judges George H.
Maine Central tracks. The coal rom-
panics expect to resume busings at
onoe. a a number of cargoes are on the
way. only about one-half of the wasona
f-upply having been received.
firers, among whom are three bri-adit-r- the Pun k was haul- i to a neaihy farm, probably on the 1 p. m. Uai
Tells Voters of Barre He Would Appre-1 W aterbury and Charles H. Dana,
tv.,, Q,.r if Woodhurv being opposed by E. B.
nate Their Support. , of ,(-ilin .. , Mrtjn of
I have issued no previous statement re- j Barre is unopposed for judge of probate;
garding my candidacy for representative ' likewise Fred F. Gleaon of Montpelier
from Barre ity in the next Vermont j f,ir state's attorney and Frank H. Traey
state legislature. I would appreciate the jof Montpelier lor sheriff. There is nn
support of every voter who can conscien- candidate for hiyh bailiff,
tiouslv cast hi" I .allot for me; and. if) n the Dcni'r:it ic column of thu
nominated in the primary as the Repub- j Washington county t'eket appear the fol
lican candidate for representative from; lowing nominations; Senator. Timothv
Barre t ity to morrow. Tuesday. !ept, 12. j F. Callahan of Montpelier. Arthur W.
and elected in Noiemher. 1 will ue my 'Hewitt of Plainfield. Charles C. Robin
best efforts that all bcislation before the'n of Wat.-rhury : assistant judze,
-"tiling general assembly of the state of ji,eorge A. Tilden of Roxbnry. Geortre L.
Vermont shall be for the greatest go-nl-pray of l".at Montpelier: no candidate
tn the largest number. I for jmle of prolate: state's attorney,
(Signed- Henry A. TheTp. I
ad. (Continued on eighth psff )
