DAILY EDITION
CHANTS PASS, JOSEPHINE COUNTY, OREGON, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1916.
WHOLE JflMBEK 184
NTo Other Town in the World the Size of Grants Pass lias a Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegraph Service.
I. II. T ' '
PRLIHI CHIEF
10 SPEAK IN
THIS CITY
Special Train, Bearing Pres-
i .ill J D i I"lIlt' 1,1 a ""'""aKo ' secretary or
idennal nominee and rarty .u protesting the sanction
IIMI i . p D "'e'l'nlted State government to
it ill Arrive in brants rass , i, ian n,, ign-
O I r . rrn'I by Ihroe prominent Mexican of
oaturaay evening at d:du hi um nm wim. The text of m
jiinitHMKe reluto thut First Chief
!('arran.n has had more than the ne
Another ral candidate for the pre-MM-wary funds to rover expenses of
aldonry of Uio l.'ultod Stales I cowing 'administration, but that these fund
In lirnuis I'ui. Thin time ll U J.i'"1 w' IlMHIMite among
Frank Huitly, the atandard beurer of
the prohibition party, and whllo Mr.
llauly auyt that bo doe not expect
to be elected president at tho Novum -
ter election, be 'state that ho do
expect the principle for which his
party stanus to uiaae nut a a snowing
that It will be accepted In the very
near future.
Nomlueo llanly In touring the went
In a Hpnclul train, and will reach
'Grant I'm on Saturday, the Kth
Inst., at 6:50 o'clock In the evening.
The train will remain here for 30
minute, during which period Mr.
llanly and other of hi party will ad
dress ihe people.
Tho prohibition special left Chi-;
cago Friday of laat weak, carrying J. '
Frank llanly, ex-governor of Indiana, j
now nominee, for president on thej
prohibition ticket, and hia wife: Dr. j
Ira I). I-andrlth, nominee for vice- j
president, and Mr. Landrlth; Oliver j
W. Stewart, campaign manager; I
Daniel A. 1'ollng. , Washington, Sept. 1 1.-Henry Ford
Hanly. Undrlth. Stewart and rol-.ri.nny ,oen t mind a fight. Agreeing
Ing were through Oregon two yonrsjtoay to come to Washington to de
ago on the "flying squadron," amlf,,nd a mil for 1100.000 brought
some of them have visited tho state 'against him by the Navy League, Ford
on lyceum and chnutauqua tour. Mr. takes on an unnecessary court scrap,'
Holing 1 now assoelule president of hl attorney advised him. He over
the World Christian Kndeavor move- riIM the attorneys' advice that, since
ment. ho reside outside of the District of
The apodal will w at Portland Krl- Coluinlla. he Is outside the jurlsdic
day, September U, where there will tlt, of n v0n. ,le wants t0 pKnt
he a mass meeting at the Ice Palace, t ou, n( t0(j them,
which will hold about ,000 people.; The $100,000 I ankcd by the Navy
Saturday morning It will start south, i Uorkuo because of allegations Ford
stopping only at 8alem, Albany. Eu- j ma,j0 a campaign of full-page
gene, Itoaeburg, Grants Pass, Med- newspaper advertising against the
ford and Ashland. It will remain at jpreparedness propaganda of the Navy
Ashland until Sunday at one o'clock , i,paKU0. in his plea today Ford stand
V. m., and then leave for San Fran-'Dat on ,he allegations he made
'l'o. against the league.
Curtis P. Coo. of McMlnnvllle, Is, ..Tne rRnt 0f every American cltl
in the city attending to the arrange- tm ,( ll0 ma(te acquainted with eer
ment for thl train. tain Information which hns come to
1 ' the attention of Mr. Ford," the an-
Fargo, N. D., Sept. 11. "I have no swor gctl, for,),i mpelled htm at
rhanco to ho elected prealdent of the
United State," J. Prank Hanly, pro-
"hlbltlon candidate, told an audience
liere today. "But I expect and hope (
for enough votes to ahow other par-
tloa the ever-growing prohibition j
M A .J..n4 I
oniimeni ana torce mem io nnui'i i
prohibition plank In their 1920 plat
forms." After a day of rest provided for In .
1ho national prohibition party' pint
form, Hanly' volco was much Im
proved. Dr. D. M. Bottom, a mem
ber of the candidate's party, sprayed
Hanly' throat today.
RISR REGIMENTS
TO
HOLD
m
; was small. v ' ,
Captain Mason wirelessed iho gen
London, Sept. 11.' Two German 'oral offlcea of the compnny at 4 a. m.
vDuntor-nttncks Inst night ngalnst the
village of Glnchy, captured by Irish
regiments Saturday, were driven off,
Otmoral llalg reported thlH afternoon.
The Germans nlso attacked near
M Monquet farm, but wore driven back,
Othcrwlso thoro were no Important
operations on the Somme ibattle front.
Between Neuvllle St. VanBt nd
Lnllnsspo canal the British enlerod
nemy trenches at several points, tak
ing a number of prisoners,
miliBUH
UHtTED STATES TO
PES
in
K I'aso, Sept, 11. Declaring the
j chief object of the Mexican members
i of the mediation commission, now
nieetltig at Now London, Conn., la to
j propose u largo loan for tho Carranza
government, representatives of the
'new revolutionary party of Legallstas
tho
chiefs of hi own faction anil assert
that tho people have been deprived
of labor facilities and possess no
! r(chu A noU, g Mng tont
; from 0hep Um f,w Wd(ir
,
;KHMA8 IRK MOTH)
, PIKK AOAIXHT FHKVCH
Paris, Sept. 11. Tho German
launched five attack against the
! French line south of the Somme be
tween llerny and a point south of
Ohanlne lat nlKht, using liquid fire.
;Tho war office announced that all
thee attack were cheeked by artil
lery fire, the Herman login heavily.
FORD WILL DEFEND.
BIG DAMAGE SUIT
Rrcat PXpense to make tho campaign
for whch h(l ha(l ,bPPn Buod, The
Bamp ,mtrot0 motlvea cause him
voluntarily to defend this suit a
thousand miles from home."
. ,
STEAMER BEAVER
HAS FIRE IN HOLD
i San Francisco, Sept. 11. -The
I steamer Beaver, iPortlnnd to San
FrnuclHco, with 160 passengers on
tjbonnl, came into tho Golden Gate this
'afternoon, on time and In safety,
'after a flro in the after lower hold
had ibeon subdued by tho crow. The
damnge, according to Captain Mason,
tlmt fl nines had' been discovered at
1 12: 18, but had boon put under con
trol In less than an hour. The hold
was flooded with water and the
I Heaver proceeded. Mason said he
was confident that tho fire was ex-
tlrely extinguished. A complete
statement of tho'dnmngo will not be
possible until the Beavor hns docked.
The Beaver Is the sister ship to the
Bear, which Is now on a reef below
Kureka, Cal.
All IF? TiilfUllQPUINRlMflWUll
riLLILU M LUUUL II 1 11 L U
OFFENSIVE NEW GRAND
IN BALKANS JURY
British Force Crossing of the
River Sirumna and Attack
Bulgars While French, Ser
bians and RussiansAdvance
London, Sept. 1, The allies have
taken tho offensive on both wings in
tho Ilalkans. Tho British forced a
crossing of the river Strumna under
heavy fire and began an attack upon
tho Bulgarian left wing. The French
war ofllce wired this afternoon that
the crossing was made at Orljax,
about 4 2 miles northeast of Salonika.
The British are attacking the towns
of Nlvolgen and Karadjaquell and
heavy fighting Is going on.
On the allied left wing the Ser
bians pressed forward, driving the
Bulgarians out of the villages of Em
borla and I'akeschorl. Serbian artil
lery also forced the Bulgarians to re
tire near Fiorina.
Whether tho allied operations, to
gether with the Russo-Roumanlan at
tacks In the Dobrudja form the be
ginning of the long-expected offensive
to crush Bulgaria It Is too early to
determine. .
Heavy flghttng Is going on both
north and south of tho Somme. where
the Germans last night launched
seven attacks against the newly cap
tured British and French positions.
The German war office this afternoon
j admitted the loss of trenches between
Glnchy and Comhles, but declared
that the struggle for Glnchy, whose
capturo was announced by General idictment wee returned after Its re
Halg Saturday night, continues. 'submission, and the action against
South of the Somme the Germans , Sanford is upon the calendar for trial
claim the recapture of a few houses at the present term.
In the village of Bernv from the! - .
French. The French' war office, how
ever, reported the repulse of five Ger
man attacks.
On the Russian front and In south
eastern Roumanla no Important
changes have occurred In the pnst 24
hours.
NG
HUaiKU VUTE HEI
HELD III THE STATE OF MAINE TODAY
Boston. Sept. 11. "Way down
East" took the center of the national
political stage today. Maine wa ex-
erclslng her Proud urlWleire of exhlh-
itlng a line on how the nation feels
a. to democracy and republicanism,
The rock-ribbed commonwealth's
....i.r. u...po o,.,in .i..,,.. ,
" " .isv.iii.iiii,11i-
plote state ticket and national prim
ary ticket.
Karly word from practically all sec-
lions of the slate Indicated fair
weather and local leaders predicted a
ic.ord voto.
"I am entirely satisfied with the
...II I...II..H 1.1..1 ,- r...
mmui ii'ii, rt'iiiui iru w ui. li. l av
tungai, campaign manager Tor the 'on national quoestlons. Even Maine's
democrats. I hold to tho prediction J perennial rum Issue hns been thrust
I mnde yesterday of a democratic into the backgraund. Republican
victory." ' 1 orators attacked the democratic tar-
"An unusually big vote may be ex- iff, President Wilson's course in Mex
pected." countered Frank J. Ham, 'ico, the rnllrond strike settlement, the
republican campaign leader, "and weshlpplng bill, and. taking. their cue
w"1 w,n " from Hughes, the allegeed general
Prlvatoly the republican leaders Inefficiency of government,
aro claiming nnywhoro from 7,000 to j president WIlBon was assailed for
U.,000 majority; the democrats at alleged "changes of mind" on pre
least 3.000 voles ahead. Ipareednes. child labor, woman's suf-
Tho greatest Interest la being frage and Mexico,
manifested throughout tho state In I , Democracy's spellbinders adonted
me outcome or mo senatorial
fight
and pnrtlcularly as to Senator Charles
P. Johnson, upon whom the republl-
cans have centered their attack, John-
son Is opposed by Fred Hale,sformer laid considerable stress on what they 'and Vice-Presidential Nominee' Fair
progressive lender, and a son of claimed a mlsgovernment by the banks.
Seven Men Are Selected From
List of Petit Jurymen to
Act As Official Probers
Till January Court Term
Circuit court convened this morn-cabinet, according to despatches ro
lng for the regular September juryjeeived here today.
term, and the court house was filled
with jurymen, witnesses and princi
pals called for the bearing of cases
upon the docket. The opening of
court wa somewhat delayed because
of the lateness of the Southern Pa
cific train, the circus trains that were
hauled over the line slowing the re
gular schedule up somewhat, and
Judge Calkins and Court Reporter
Davl being upon the delayed pas
senger. The first Jbuslness of the court was
the drawing of the names of seven
jurymen to serve as the grand Jury
till the January term of court. The j
names drawn were those of Geo. H.
Porter, J. D. Drake, E. Badger,
Alfred Letcher Jr., N. C. Clarke, A. J.
Green and Fred N. Robertson. Judge
Calkins appointed N. G. Clarke fore
man, and the Jury met for a short
session, when it was dismissed till
the first Tueeday In January. The
only business brought before the
grand jury was the resubmission of
the Indictment returned against F. B.
Sanford, charged with non-observance
of the marriage laws, Georgia
mi nara, nis common taw wire, oetng
a witness before the Jury. The in-
BAXAX IS OOCTPIED
BY Itl SSlAV TROOPS
Petrograd. Sept. 11. -Russian
troops have occuoled Banan. on the
Caucasus front. Jt was officially an-
Inounced today.
CAST IN ELECTION
Maine's grand
'Eugene Hale.
old man, Senator '
A blrdseye view of the Maine sltua -
nn a.,
8 ,e will be -sat Is fled w 1th a parS IT" ?
victory. ' jkans it wm offldally announced here
Both sides are tacitly agreed that . u " !
. . . . y. ,greed that. Strumna river at Crljax and attacked
,i leagi one Maine aistriet will h
democratic, that one represented In
congress by Daniel J. McGIlllcuddv.
He in extremely popular throughout
the etate.
Pop lho , ,Um(J , u
hears, locul Maine Issues have plaved
very little purt in tho campaign.. For
I.. '
tlwi iiuat hums Vk nH..in.. u-... -.i
tho slogan: "Peace with honor'andi
prosperity" as the theme of their dls-
courses. .
Local orators for the rennbllcan
HIS THAT
MIES IMPOSED
Athens, Sept 11. The Greek cab
inet ha formally accepted the new
condition Imposed by the l?tt, re
garding the maintenance of order. It
was announced today. The Reservist
league's headquarters In Piraeus and I
Athens have been closed. All Greek
prefects have been ordered to close
the provincial reservist centers.
Rome, Sept. 11. A great anti-ally
demonstration occurred in Athens
while the English and French minist
ers were In conference with the Greek
A mob, fearing that the entente
ministers planned some new move
against King Constantlne, began fir
ing revolvers and shouting "Long
lire King Constantino" and "Down
with the allies."
GENERAL STRIKE
IS
ED
New York, Sept. 11. An order rec
ommending a general strike of New
York's 800,000 trade unionists, in
sympathy with the transit strike,
which today affected New York, the
Bronx and Queen counties, went out
to the union heads today., . Leaving
the night session of union heads two
hours before it closed, Samuel
Gompers, president of the American
Federation of Labor, recommended
'that union members give the striking
j car men fluancial and moral support,
j The union heads recommended a
general strike, with which action
they claimed Gompers was in com
plete sympathy. The union commit
tee which will direct the proposed
general strike opened headquarters
today and will be in dally session.
The recommendation of the con
ferences held by leaders last night
will go to the individual bodies to
night, and it was said It would take
several days to get the proposed sym
pathetic strike under way.
While surface lines are practical
ly at a standstill, the strikers are to
day making an appeal to the public
to refrain from using surface, sub
way and elevated lines upon which
strikes are in progress.
Police reports today showed that
In the last 24 hours thirty-two per
sons were injured to" the strike dis
tricts More than a score of arrests were
made and among them were three
women, charged with Inciting to riot.
! Pari8, Sept 11 -British
I. r""8 oelu- 11--tJntisn
troops
.v,
luc
Bulgarians at Nivolgen and
Karadjaquoll. Heavy fighting Is go
ing on.
Curtis regime. Democratic state
leaders set their speakers to work
"pointing with pride" to human!-
Inrtan lu a a nncanrl In tho nsnanh
ernor.
The list of campaigners sent out
by both parties reads like a blue book
of politicians. Here are a few who
have loosed their thrusts at the other
side:
Democrats Secretary of the Navy
Daniels; Secretary of War Baker;
Secretary of Labor W. L. Wilson;
Secretary of Commerce Redfleld; Pre
sident Gompers, of the A. F. of L.;
Senator Ollle James (and Balnbrldge
Colby, former progressive leader In
New York.
Renubllcsns Knminu tr,..h..
jColonel Roosevelt; Medlll McCorl
mlck. former .,rffr..iv i..j.
'fipnator Hn-rttn,. ru.i. n o
RECOMMEND
25HI
OF BRIDGE
One of the Great Engmeeriag
Feats of the World Fails
When Span of Quebec
Structure Falls Into River
Quebec, Sept 11. Twenty-lira
men were plunged to their death
when the central span of the big 17.
000,000 cantilever Quebec bridge
over the St. Lawrence river collapsed
today Just as it was oelng swung into
place, marking what would hare been
the final work on one of the greatest
engineering feats in the world.
Thousands of persons who bad
come to witness the spectacle of the.
completion of the bridge, including
cabinet and parliament members and
engineers, saw the accident
First reports were that the entire
force of 90 men who were on the
bridge had perished. . The St Law
rence Bridge company, contractors
for the structure, announced, how
ever that their latest estimate show
ed 25 to have been killed. Only five
or six survivors of those who were
plunged into the river were picked
up.
The big span, which ibuckled and
then collapsed weighed 5,000 tons.
It was floated down on barges, while
thousands in boats of every descrip
was at its height when the accident
Steamboat whistles were tooting and
the enthusiasm of the great crowd
was at Its height when the accident
occurred. The span had been hoist
ed out 15 reet when one corner or
the span was seen to te higher than
the other. The supporting jack on
the lower end then gave way, the
span broke in the center and with
steel girders snapping with reports
like rifle shots the structure plunged
Into the water. v
The crowds looked on, dumb with
amazement, as the great steel span
dived out of sight It carried with
it a small portion of the south can
tlllver arm. Four or five men work
ing onjtop of the span were hurled
into the water. The rest were car
ried down. The fleet of launches and
tugs nearby hurried forward, but
succeeded in rescuing few.
The big span sank In two hundred
feet of water, disappearing com
pletely. In 1907 a section of the bridge col
lapsed as it was nearing completion,
killing 75 men. "
Continued on Page 2.
LAND DISTRIBUTION
TO SETTLE PROBLEM
New London, Conn., Sept. 11. Re
distribution of lands, through a tax
ation scheme, which will break up
large holdings, was a suggestion for
solution of Mexico's Internal prob
lems which the Mexican commission
ers outlined to the Americans In the
"peace conference" today.
The Carranaa envoys urged their
plan as a hopeful sign of regenera
tion and argued It would help aid the
nation of the scourge of banditry and
lessen the need for military protec
tion of the border.' ' Through land
distribution and no other means, It
Is argued, peace and plenty can be re
stored the southern republic,
Progress toward troops withdrawal
was made In today's session but It
seems likely several. more meetings'
will be required before the conferees
can report to their governmnta , any
definite recommendations regarding
their plan.
