ft
. -
l
.
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
,
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
' .
v
Villi- T I I I I . II. . . : I 1 1 J5 - . -I L. II sT 1 1 1 I . . . - '11
.- T'J.- .... TTTT.. pptfip mrnr, ncwTg 9 P"P
QTHIRTY-NINTH YEAR NO. 190 SALEM, OKttUUM, MU-NlJAi, stirmMCK ii, imo "" "'" standb-
CAPITAL DETERMINED
TO DESTROY UNIONISM
Attempt Made by New York Traction Companies Is Said To
: Be First Move In Industrial War-Financial Interests Use
- Companies As Means of Starting FightGompers Recom
mends Strike That Will Call Out 800,000 Workers in
New York City
lsjJYork, Sept. 11. The attempt of the New York
Traction" companies to crush unionism is the first direct
result of the eight hour legislation passed by congress to
prevent a railroad strike, a statement from the Amalga
mated Association of Carmen charged today.
"Capital does not intend that this legislation shall
even go-on the statute books," the statement declared.
"The New York traction companies are backed by the
most powerful aggregation of capital in the world. The
same financial interests back the railroads of the coun
try. This attempt to crush unionism is the first in a great
fight by capital against organized labor that it may not
realize the results of a twenty five year fight won by the
eieht hour bill passed by congress."
Samuel Gompers, head of the American Federation of
Labor, was closeted in his rooms at the Continental notel
tddav with union leaders of the city.
' Plans for a general sympathetic strike which would
call out 800,000 workers and paralyze the city were still
under discussion today. The Central committee repre
senting the Central Labor Federation of Greater New
York, the Brooklyn Central Labor Union, the New York
State Federation of Labor and the American Federation
of Labor was to hold hold its first conference at 2 o'clock.
This committee has in its power the organization of the
proposed general strike.
Wheat Takes a Drop
In Chicago Market
Chicago, Sept. Strong selling
pressure halted a sharp rally in wheat
prices after a steady opening today.
The market scored fractional gains a
few minutes after the start but drop
ped when bears threw considerable
wheat ou the market. September was
down below the opening l'-j at $1.51
December down half at $1.53 and May
down half at 1.53.
An over bought market condition
with favorable reports from Iowa and
lllionis tumbled corn values from 5-8
to two cents. September was down,
two nt 85 3-4, December down lMi at
72 1-8 and May down 7-H at 75 5-8.
Oats opened' lower and continued
downward on weakness in other grains
September was down 1 5-8 nt 45 1-8,
December down 1 at 47 7-8 and May
down 1 1-8 at 50.
Provisions were lower in sympathy
with a weak hog ninrkot.
MAINE
ELECTION
HA
POLITICIAN S
ON ANXIOUS SEAT
E
TO BRITISH BLACKLIST
At Great Demonstration Re
taliatory Legislation Is
Demanded
Republicans Claim Vote Will
Be Big and Their Majority
15.000
DEMOCRATS CLAIM THEY
. WILL CARRY IT BY 3,000
Taft-Roosevelt Vote in 1912
Greater Than Wilson's
by 23,925
New York, Sept. 11. An order re
commending a general strike of New
York's 800,000 trade unionists, in sym
pathy with the transit strike which to
session.
The recommendation of the confer
ences held by leaders last night will go
to tho individual bodies and it was
ilfiv affected New York. Bronx and said it would take several days to get
jeens counties, went out to the union j the proposed sympathetic strike under
beads today. way. '
heaving the night session of union I While surfnce lines are practically at
two tinura linfnre it closed. Sainu-1 a standstill the strikers are today ninK
l Goinners, president of the American j ing an nppeaMo the public to refrain
federation of Labor recommended that! from using surface, subway and elevat
By Charles P. Stewart
.(United Press staff correspondent)
Beunos Aires, Sept. 11. The great
est demonstration against the new
British blacklist staged in any country
attracted an immense crowd at the
Plaza Conereso Sunday afternoon.
The plaza was. packed. Ten politic
al and patriotic organizations partici
pated in the demonstration, but their
members were outnumbered by the
great throng of business men and their
employes who garnered to protest a
gainst the blacklist.
The speakers included some or in
most prominent politicians ana proies
sional men in the Argentine capital.
Thev accused the Kntish of attempt
ina- to break down tne wnoio structure
of international law and declared that
no neutral nation should submit to tue
throttling of its own trade by any bel
liferent.
The retaliatory legislation passed dj
the United States congress has greatly
strengthened the hand of the opponents
of the British blacklist Here, in ue
manding anti-blacklist legislation at
the Sunday demonstration, severai
speakers referred to the stand taken
lv tiie United States. .
The meeting was advertised by pln
cardB scattered throughout the city
union members give the striking car
men "financial and moral support."
The union heads recommended a gen
eral strike with which action they
clnimed Uompors was in complete sym
pathy. The union committee which will
direct the proposed general strike, op
ened headquarters and will be in daily
ed lilies upon which strikes are in pro
gress,
Police reports todav showed that in
the Inst 24 hours, thirty two persons
were injured in the strike district.
Moro than a score of arrests were
made and among them were three wo
men, charged with inciting to riot.
TRIED TO BEAT TRAIN
ARE MfflE MORGUE
Could Not Wait for Train to
Pass, Three Are Dead and
Fourth Dying
I.ovcland, Colo., Sept. 11. Three
persons are dead and a fourth victim
is dying today as the result of one of
the worst automobile accidents that
ver occurred in this region. The auto
mobile party of four, consisting of Mr.
Hiid Mrs. Juinca L. Hedelson and Mrs.
Olara Jones of Loveland and Mrs.
DEMOCRATS DO NOT
EXPECT TO CABBY MAINE
New York', Sept. 11. While
the ballots are being cast in
Maine todaV, leaders at both
the national political headquar
ters here are holding their
breath and waiting.
Medill Mct'onnick of Chica
go brought word of a "sure re
publican victory" from Maine
to republican headquarters trf
dny. Vance - McCormick, democrat
ic chairman admitted he "hard
ly expected a democratic vic
tory." He added, however,
"of course it isn't as though
they were voting for President
Wilson directly today."
resident to Visit
SisterWho Is 111
By Robert J. Bender
(United Tress staff correspondent)
Long Branch, N. J., Sept. 11. Pres
ident Wilson, accompanied by Mrs.
Wilson and Secretary Tumulty, left the
summer white houso at 9 a. m. today
for New London, Conn., where the pres
ident's only sister, Mrs. Annie E.
ItawA is seriouslv ill.
The trip to New York was made by
motor. The president planned to
catch a one o'clock train for New Lon
don. He has cancelled all engagements
for the next few days and his stay will
bo indefinite.
The president and Mrs. Howe were
always greatly devoted to each other.
Before his marriage to Mrs. uait, Mrs.
Howe spent much of her time with
President Wilson, paying frequent vis
its to the white house. She was with
im at Cornish, N. II., last summer.
BATTLE OF BREAD
FOUGHT IN VILLAGE
Enemies Meet While Raiding
Bakery, No Trouble While
Bread Lasted
Hedelson driving the machine, at
tempted to cross the Colorado i- South
em railroad tracks ahead of a speed
ing southbound passenger train. The
ear was struck squarely in the center.
Mrs. Lent, fatally injured, was thrown
to ono sido and the other throe re
maining in the automobile and rolled
over and over under the engine pilot,
were instantly killed and their bodies
mangled almost beyondrecognition.
liailroad employes worked desperate
ly for over an hour before the bodies
were removed from under the engine.
Prices Go Higher On
Very Active Market
MAY CALL STRIKE TODAY
Kansas City, Mo., Sept. 11.
A strike of the miners of the
southwest may bo called today.
Formal demand that the oper
ators accept the new biennial
wage contract as proposed by
the union miners will be niado
today at a joint conference
here.
Refusal will be met with a
strike order effective nt six p.
m., according to announcement
bv the miners.
By Perry Arnold
(United Press staff correspondent)
Boston, Mass., Sept. 11. Judged
from New England's Hub here this af
ternoon in the light of fragmentary
word from all sections of -Maine, tb
Pine Tree stato today will break a
records in the number of votes cast at
the election which may point the way
to the national vote in November,
Both democratic and republican lead
n nt AiKTiiatn frnilflv declared theil
belief that the total Vote Maine cast
in 188014.1.000 would be exceeded to
dnv. Splendid weather prevailed.
The fact that a record, voto is ex
pectcd, is also likely to delay securing
complete returns. : j ne iuci was i-m
nhnsized at botii headquarters in An
iiiHin today that ureliniiuarv return
might be deceptive and should not be
accepted as indicative or tne miui r-
suit.
Both Sides Claim It.
Boston. Alnss., Sept. 11. "Wa
down east" took tho center of the n
tionnl political stnge today.
Mainewaa exercising her proun
privilege of exhibiting a line on ho
tho nation feels as to democracy nu
republicanism. The rock ribbed com
mnnwealth's voters were ensting bal
(Continued on Psae Sir.)
New York, Sept. 11. The New York
Evening finnncint review today says:
Although the volume of realizing was
enormous in today s operations, tue Quebec, Sept. 11. Twenty- live men
market's capacity for taking stocks were plunged to their death when the
'central span of the big $17,000,000
Tulia A. Lent of Eureka, Kansas, were Le de dine when recorded i cantilever Quebec bridge over the St.
beino confined as a rule within narrow Lawrence river collapsed today just as
limits while in the best part of the was being swung ...to plu.e, mar :
session the general tendency wns in the 'B what would have been the final work
direction of higher levels with marked n " f '? 8r,('st Wigmeer.ng feats
BRIDGE SPAN BREAKS
WHILE BEING HOISTED
INTO PLACE; 25 KILLED
returning from a mountain trip last
night. At the outskirts of the city
i i .
improvement recorded nt times by many
issues.
In the last hour strength was report
ed throughout with steel common mov
ing to a new high recoru.
Commission houses report buying by
outsid rs of large financial resources.
Big m-rgius huve been prov'ded, while
in many instances heavy amounts of
stock nave been taken out of the mar
ket ou actual eash purchases. The lat
ter movement has been pronounced iu
United States Steel common and to a
small extent in the preferred which of
fer prime investment opportunity with
out a return at its present level. Lac
knwana Steel is being taken on divi
dend expectations.
' I
Attempt to Have Bear
Prove Failure Again
Eureka, Cnl.. Sept. 11. AU attempts
made Saturday and Sunday nights to
move the steamer Bear from the reef
on which she went last June failed,
7r. Pinky Kerr is siowiy recoverin . according to announcement uere iuju.
Tugs will continue the effort, oowever.
from his vacation. Miss Germ Williams
will address th' Equal Suffrage I.ea
U'ie t' night On "Th Brotherhood o
Women.
A girl never truly loves a man if she
admits that he has faults.
in the world.
Thousands of persons who had come to
witness the spectacle of the completion
of the bridge, including cabinet and
parliament members and engineers saw
the accident.
First reports were that the entire
force of 90 men who were on the bridge
had perished. The Si. Lawrence Bridge
company, contractors for the structure
announced, however, that their lnteat
estimate showed 25 to have been killed.
Only five or six survivors of those who
were plunged into, the river were picked
up. The big span which buckled and
then collapsed weiuhed 5000 tons. It
was floated down on barges, while
thousands in boats of every description
and massed on shore, cheered. Steam
boat whistles were tooting and the en
thusiasm of the great crowd was at its
height when the accident occurred. The
span had been hoisted but rirteen reet
when one corner of the span was seen
to be higher than the other. The sup
uorting jack on the lower end then
gave way, the span broke in the cen
ter and "with steel rirders snapping
with reports like rifle shots, the struc
ture plunged into the wnter.
The crowds looked on, dumb with
amazement as the great steisl span dived
out of sight.
GARIA HAS RETAKEN
MUCH LOST
TERTRI
Claim That Since Rumania Declared War They Have Takea
From Her Practically All the Towns Which In Last Balkan
War They Were Forced by Treaty to Surrender to Ru
maniansBritish Capture Some Trenches and French
Make Gains On Somme Front
By Carl W. Ackennan
(United Press staff correspondent)
At tho Herman front, near Kovel,
Rnssiu, August M (By mail) me
great "battle of bread" has just Deen
fought at the village of Zwiniueze be
tween Russian, German and Austrian
troops with tho honors about even.
The Uermans enptured , awuum-ir.
brought up their army bakery and Had
list turned out Hf.oiiu loaves wiieu
they were forced to retire. Ihe regi
ment on their left flnnk had" failed to
advance and tho retirement at Zwiu-
UC7.0 wna necessary to straighten tne
ines. '
The Germans entrenched a few nun
dred yards on one side of the village
Tiie Russians entrenched aoout tue
time distance on the other side.
A group of Germans slipped mm
Zwiniueze and started back wittt an
th hrend thev coii il carry. Tho Kus
sians saw the'm but instead of firing
slipped out of their trenches for a
rnid on the DBKery. ine sunrmi"
lumped iii and for a few minutes mis-
sinus. - uermans ana iminii uici v
the army bakery with their arms too
full of bread to tignt.
But. when the supply began to run
low some one drew a knife. The bat
tle was on in an instant with botn
i-iiHhinir un reint'orceraents. Be
fn.A It. ended the Bround aboYit the
hnkerv was strewn with the bodies of
dead Russians, Austrians and Germans.
some of tnem sun cmu-unm iuru "-
es of bread.
BeHin, Sept. 11. More than a third of the territory
taken from Bulgaria by the Rumanians at the close of the
second Balkan war has been reconquered by the German
Bulgarian forces.
The Rumanians and Russians are again in retreat to
ward the Danube abandoning still more positions east and
southeast of the fortress of Sijistra, said Budapest dis
patches today.
In a little more than a week the combined German
Bulgarian forces have captured far more Rumanian ter
ritory than the allies have been able to take 01 uerman
territory since the beginning ol tne war. lwo Rumanian
fortresses, Tutrakan and Silistra, have fallen to the in
vaders. The Rumanian and Russion prisoners now total
more than thirty thousand. Large captures of guns has
seriously affected the Rumanian artillery supply.
The capture of Silistra, officially announced yesteraay
afternoon, is expected to cause the early withdrawal of
the Russo-Rumaman forces still operating near Lrobnc,
in southeastern Rumania. The force that occupied Silis
tra is advancing eastward while a Bulgarian army con
tinues to move northward along the Black sea coast. The
pnemv alreadv is in a deen Docket and an eastward ad
vance of twenty miles because Germans will make hist
withdrawal difficult. .......
Whether the German-Bulgarian advance marks the
beginning of a real drive on Bucharest, newspaper critics
here confess they are unable, to decide, in some quarters,
it is believed the Germans plan to drive the Russians and
Rumanians behind the Danube and the Constanza rail
way and throw up strong defensive lines to check a Russo'-'
Rumanian march on Bulgaria.
The Budapest newspaper Az Est declares that the
Bulgarians have now conquered practically all the towns
which they were forced by the treaty of Bucharest to
surrender to the Rumanians. Thanksgiving services are
being held throughout Bulgaria because of the victories
over the Rumanians and Russians.
OF
U. S. District Attorney to
Question 25 Chicago Bak
ers About It
It carried with it a smull portion
tho south cantilever arm. Four or fi
men working on top of the span we
hurled into the vater. The rt'Jt we
carried down. The fleet of launches
and tugs lurried forward but succeed'
in rescuing few.
The bii; snnn sank in two iiunoreu
feet of water disappearing complete
In 1907 a section of the bridge co
laps- d es it was nearing completio
killinir seventy-five men.
Arrangements have been made to sen
divers down to ascertain if it will
possible to raise the span and also
find if the channel has been blocked.
Government ministers, eminent en
gineers aud especially invited guests
from all over the world were to wit
ness the feat of placing the span.
A special train with twenty injured
men from the bridge arrived here
courtly after noon. They were taken
to the Jeffrey Hale hospital.
Chief Kngineer McMillan was on the
central span when it fell and was badly
injured. He was rescued by a tug ana
wus brought nere ror treatment.
It is now stuted toat twenty-seven
men were killed, a number of them
being indians from the Cagnawa reser
vation. Among the known dead is Kdward
Jordanais, aged 22, of Providence, K.
I. Before leaing his boarding house
last night to go to the bridge he said
with a smile:
"Say boys, lei 's all join in a song. It
Chicago, Hept. 11. Pour investiga
tions into the proposed increased price
of bread were planned here today. .
Assistant United Ktntes district at
torney Joseph Fleming was prepared to
conduct an examination of breadnuik
ers and twenty five Chicago bakers, it
was said, would be quizzed. President
M I.' MeDrinnld of the Association of
Mnsl'nr Bakers, has volunteered to give
the government all possible informa
tion rlnive to cost of material.
Mimilnv fiction is planned by the
wtntf.ii nttnriievs office.
At the office ot the city scaler, n
was stated n force of inspectors will
be scattered throughout the city to
urge housewives to weigh the bread. It
is planned to introduce n resolution nt
the next meeting of the city council,
UHking that municipal inquiry be made
into bread costs.
Meanwhile three women's organiza
tions, were planning an inquiry of their
own.
By Ed L. Keen.
(United Press Htnff Correspondent.)
British Active In Balkans.
London, Wept. 11. Tho allies have
taken the offensive on both wings in the
Balkans. The British fortcd a crossing
of tho River Strunn under heavy fire
and begun an attack on the Bulgarian
(left wing. The french war otfice wired
this afternoon that tne crossing waB
mado t Orljax about 42 miles uorci
east of Salonika. The British are at
tucking the towns of Nivolgen und Kn
radjcqueil and hcuvy lighting is going
on.
On the allied left wing the Serbians
pressed forward, driving tho Bulgers
out of the vilnges of ttinboria and Pa
kescliori, Serbiuu artillery also forced
the Bulgnrs to retire near Fiorina,
Heavy fighting is goini on both
north and south of the Somme w here the
Uermans lust night luunched seven at
tacks against the newly captured Brit
ish and French pos.. ons. Tho Uermun
war oifice this afternoon admitted the
losu of trenches between Uinchy anu
Coiubles but declared that the struggle
for Uinchy, whose capture wus announc
ed by Ueneial Haig Saturday night con
tinues.
South of the Somme the (iermnns
claim the recapture of a few houses in
the village of Berny'from the French
The Freuch war- office, however, report
ed the repulse of five Herman attacks.
Ou the Russian front and in south
eastern It u inn n iu no important changes
have occurred iu the past twenty-four
hours.
Mouqet farm, but wero driven back.
Otherwiso there wero no important op
erations on the Somme battle front.
Between Neuville St. Vaast and the
Lnbasseo canal the British entered en
emy trenches at several points, taking
a number of prisoners.
Germans Admit Lobs
Berlin, Sept. 11 Loss of advanced
trenches to the British betweon Uinchy
and Combles in a furious battle wa
admitted by the war office this after
noon. Fighting for possession of tho village
fif (iiiichv continues.
South of the Somme a few houses in
the villago of Berny have beeu cap
tured from the French.
Russians Press Ahead
Petrogrud, Sept. 41 Russian troop
huve occupied Bannn, on tho Caucasus
front, it was officially announced to
'ly. Oreek Cabinet Accepts.
Athens, Sept. 11. Tho Oreek cabi
not accepted the new conditions impos
edby the allies, regarding the mainten
ance of order, it was announced to
day. The reservist league's headquarter
in in Piraeus and Atheus have been
closed. Tre -Greek prefects huve been
ordered to close tho provincial reser
vist centers.
-
AN EXFEKT ur.niun
ON LOVE AND KISSING
(Continued oa Pa Twi.
New York, Sept. 11. Love is
only a chemical reaction; you
can get the sTime sensation by
stroking cat. '
Dr. A. A. Lindsay, expert
psyhopathist, passes this tip out
to a world of lovers while the
moon is still full.
"There is nothing in this so
called love; that is, really noth
ing but the thrill of physical
contnet, as for Instance in kiss
ing, " said Dr. Lindsay. "Af
ter you have kissed the same
girl many times' the thrill
goes out of the kiss. Then you
or the girl discover that love
nevr existed between you." i
British Begin Offensive
Paris, Sept. 11. ISriiish troops have
taken the offensive in the Haitians, it
was officially announced here today.
The British crossed the Struma river
at C'rljax ami attacked the Bulgarian
at Nivulgeu and Karadjaquoil. Heavy
fighting is going on.
French Repulse Attack
Paris, Sept. 11. The Uermans laun
ched five attacks against the French
lines south of the Somme between Ber
ny and a point south of t nuuines last
night, using liquid fire. The war of-1
fice announced that all these attacks
were checked by artillery fire, tho
Germans losing heavily.
British Make Gains
T.nn.lnn. Sept. 11. Two German
tor attacks last niifht asainst the
village of Uinchy, raptured by Irish
reuimonts Saturday were driven off,
General Haig reported this afteruooiul
Tue Germans also attacked near!
Antl-AUy Demonstration.
Rome. Sent. 11. A great anti-ally
demonstration occurred iu Athena whilu
the English and French ministers were
in conference with the Oreek cabinet,
according to dispatches received here
today.
A mob feariag that the entente min-
(Ceationed on Page Five.)
THE WEATHER
r
m
THEV ARE
I CALLING THESE)
Oregon: Tonight,
fair, frost east
portion; Tuesday
warmer south ami
east port io ns;
northerly winds.
