mmyv*?-'-"- v m.. .*? ??* ^ m ?-?- w rp mgqs&s'ww** '" "'" ' '' '
Partly cloudy and warmer tonight. A . * A ^ ^ ffdMW PrOtt tp WflWIt
Tomorrow, southerly winds. In- MS^O 0^M C )( q I
Temperature for twenty-four hours ^ fl I 4 B^r SIb* 1^ llT ? nr I Tf/l^ CM Within the Hoar
ending p.m.: Highest. 65, at p.m. H A H rH Hr H H H I I \ H H ^Lmtea. ???????
yesterday: lowest, 37. 6 a.m. today. J WW Or / ^^B Be H M
Full report on page
CMM1S6 HEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 18. V V S L/ MK'DX 's^ewa'VdSis^ijl/tT^lMK
No. 29,482. WASHINGTON, D. C., WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 3916.?TWENTY-TWO PAGES. ONE CENT.
MILKMEN BELIEVE
VICTORY IS CERTAIN
Maryland and Virginia Pro- I
ducers Say Danger of
"Strike" Is Over.
BIG D. C. DEALER GIVES IN 1
> j
|
The milk producers of Maryland and j
Virginia supplying Washington with b
milk today believed that their fight for h
an increase in the price of milk had a
been won. All immediate prospect of a o
"milk strike" so far as Washington is I
concerned has vanished, they said. f
The producers based their belief upon v
the fact that George M. Oyster, jr.. one c
of the large milk dealers of the city, h
today announced to the executive com- b
mittee of the Maryland and Virginia 3
Milk Producers' Association that he
was willing to pay 24 cents a gallon a
"for the right kind of milk" for the ii
seven ''winter" months of the year, j h
This is the price demanded by the j II
farmers. Following this announce- j e
ment several other dealers intimated . p
that they would follow suit, according . p
to the executive committee of the pro- j t<
ducers* association. j a
Mr. Oyster, in making the announce- ! w
ment to the executive committee, said j
that he was already paying 21 cents j d?
for milk and had been willing to do so n
in the past, provided that the milk was J fs
up to proper specifications, particularly s*
with regard to cleanliness.
I
Other Dealers Must Follow.
He said that he thought 24 cents was C<
not too much to pay the farmers for the ^
right kind of milk, and that the in- ^
creased price should aid the farmers to
produce the right kind. He told the a|
executive committee tha.t he would be e\
glad to have it direct him to farmers 1 *
who could supply him with the kind of J
milk lie desired, and stated he was in j J71
the market for all he could get. j
The producers figure that with
Oyster paying 24 cents, and several Cl
other large dealers willing to do so.
the rest of the dealers will be forced
into line or else they will lose their
business to the dealers who are paying n<
this price.
The work of perfecting the organiza- I
tlon of the Maryland and Virginia Milk I r5
Producers' Association will keep right i flt
^VE. Booker, business manager,!
, or
Producers Organize ! ?
at Rockville Meeting $
se
The work of organizing the farmers ci
of Maryland and Virginia who ship ^
milk to Washington is progressing rap- m,
idly, according to the executive com- mi
mittee of the Maryland and Virginia 00
Milk Producers* Association, which is
conducting a membership campaign on
a large scale this week. The purpose
of the organization is to obtain better I>
prices for milk for the producers. Hf
. Word was brought to Washington to- aI1
day regarding large meetings of the ' to
farmers in Vienna, Va., and Rockville, j
Md. At Vienna the farmers of Fairfax th
and adjoining counties of Virginia < ?*
gathered in large numbers. They
joined the association without excep- ?
tion and voted to stand by it in its I "a
demands. <* m'
Favor a Milk Strike. j St
At Rockville twenty-flv; of the milk j fo
producers of that section gathered yes- : '*
terday at the courthouse. They went
on record 'as favoring a milk strike,
should a strike be neceseary to obtain
the advance in prices which they demand,
and, should the the association order
such a strike, it is estimated that
at least 70 per cent of the thousand j
or more gallons now shipped each day . jt
from that section would be withheld, to
The other 30 per cent is shipped by 1 hi
producers who are receiving at least re
as much as the association asks.
The producers went on record as favor- i H
ing a minimum price of 15 cents a gallon, v
during the months of May, June, July and in
August, 30 cents, a gallon in September ; w
and 24 cents a gallon during the months j ti
of October, November, December. Janu- j a!
ary, February, March and April, and ;
voted unanimously to stand by the asso- pi
ciation should a "striae " be decided upon , m
by the committee having the negotiations ' ai
'n charge. Something like an average j ol
of 16 cents a gallon in summer and 33 ! ol
cents in the fall, winter and spring is1 a
what the producers of this part of the ! C<
county have been receiving. ! in
Those Who Attended. E
The meeting wrs presided over by John !
B. Diamond. jr., of Oaithcraburg, who is j I!
rice president of the Maryland and Vir-j
gir.ia Association. Ainoug these attend- j
ing were Harry C. Hurley, W. Harry
Beard, blames P. B. Veirs; John Left- J,l*
bridge, James W, McFarland, Albert S. J. ; ^
Fields, William K. Jones. Joseph V. Selby, I
Joseph S. Gilliss. William C. Watkina, j .sc
James N. Barnsley, John 15. Welsh, i \\
Thomas Barnesley, Samuel 8/ Welsh. ;
Henry Hamke, James H. Saunders, Doug-1 c
lass Diamond, Urban N. Wagner and H. J fa
J. Van Fossen. A
Similar meetings have been held in I v?
other s?cti6ns of the county and others i T
have been arranged for. The milk pro- I
ducers ol the county are understood to j w
be solidly behind the association in its I of
fight for higher prices and willing to go ?1
tlie limit to carry the point.
. IS.
FIGHTING ON ITALIAN FRONT.! %i
j
Both Vienna and Borne Report;
Heavy Artillery Engagement!.
VIENNA, October 24. via London, Uc- ; ^
tober 23.?"On the coastal front the j
Italian gun and mine fire continues, j
especially on Doberdo plateau, where j
there is fierce artillery and mine fight- s
ing," says the official announcement is- r
;-ued here today. "Our airmen success- a
fully bonibed a large camp near Sugana." r
HOME. October 24. via Ix>ndon. October ti
23.'?"Along the whole front yesterday
there were artillery actions," says to- "
day's official announcement. "These en- t
gagements were particularly intense on y
the Asiago plateau, in the Sugana valley,
at the head of the Vanoi Oisrnon, in the t
Felison and Boite valleys, in the Plava tl
sector of the middle lsonzo and on the 1
Uarso.". t
m n
Teacher* Hit by High Living Cost, >,
HITTSBL'ROH. October 25.?Teachers |
in the Pittsburgh public schools, from I *
the kindergarten to the high school departments.
have asked the board of education
of the city for an increase in
salary from $50 to $lp0 a year. ^Wil- t
llarn M. Davidson, superintendent of a
schools, estimates the advance,* if <j
granted, will amount to $300,776. The' e
high cost of living is given as the rea- i
son for the request. f
: ... MiiMk&
9. C. BENCH AND BAR
iOININEULOGIES
Memorial Rites Held for
Late Justice Anderson, A. A.
Birney and E. H. Thomas.
VARM TRIBUTES ARE PAID
Memorial services by the bench and
ar were held this afternoon at city
all for Thomas H. Anderson, late
ssociate justice of the Supreme Court
i me xsisirici or v^oiumoia; Arinur a.
Mrney, former United States attorney
or the District of Columbia, and Edward
H. Thomas, former corporation
ounsel for the District. Mrs. Anderson,
er sister, Mrs. Augustine, and mem<ers
of the families of Mr. Birney and
Ir. Thomas were present as guests.
Justice Wendell P. Stafford made the
ddress on behalf of the bench, dwellrag
on the character and lifework of
is former associate. Justice Anderson,
le tailed him "an admirable judge, well
ndowed by nature, well trained by
ractice at the bar and broader by
ublic service of an important charac?r:
one who had mingled with men of
ffairs and understdod the ways of the
rorld." '
After reciting incidents of Justice Anerson's
ability as a prosecutor, and
iferring to. his "mother wit" and' his
icillty at repartee, Justice Stafford
tid:
Mind Open to Light.
"But on the bench he approved Bum's
sentence: 'Judges ought to be
ore learned than witty, more advised
lan confident.' There indeed he was
wift to hear, slow to speak.' His mind
as like a room that had windows on
1 sides; it was open to the light from
rcry quarter. If he had any prejudices
never found them out. Jn a judge
irtiality is the unpardonable sin. Alost
any other fault will be forgiven
y th*? most generous of professions.
:irtiality never will be and never
jght to be. No judge was more painsking
or industrious, and so as years
ent on his knowledge of the. law
-oadened and deepened and his useful?ss
increased.
"He has left an excellent record. His!
dgments have born well the test of.
tview and reconsideration and will
and the acid test of time, for they
ere dictated by a keen sense of jusje.
His idealism showed itself not
lly in matters of the weightier sort,
it in those generally accounted of
condary importance?in the punctilils
observance of all that was due to
ose about him, in a fastidious care of
s own appearance, in an infallible
jise of decorum and fitness in the
rcumstances of any occasion. But
e quality with which he will always
associated in our recollection, alost
to the exclusion of the rest (so
arvelous was it) will be hie golden
urteey, his almost-perfect patience.
Mindly and Porb?rant.
"In a position that tries mei^'s souls
rhaps as much as any he bore him*
If with invariable dignity, kindnessid
forbearance. If be had not been |
o modest to do so he might have;
ken to himself the words of the1
aim: 'Thy gentleness, hath made
ee great.' We are inclined to think!
such a rare trait as a gift of nature,
it Justice Anderson once told me that:
. was naturally of a quick temper and !
id acquired self-control at the cost of i
any a struggle."
In concluding his eulogy Justice j
afford said:
"Here is a character we shall never |
rget?wise, faithful and urbane. Here j
a memory that will be pure and fra- |
ant to the last. Often shall we think }
him and often say:
'Swn tw the turf abuve the*.
Friend of my better days!
None knew thee btit to love thee.
Nor named thee but to ,prmi*e.
Resolutions of Regret.
Resolutions of regret at the death of |
istice Anderson were offered by At-rney
Samuel Maddor, who also paid j
igh tribute to the late Jurist. Similar i
solutions were presented as to Mr. !
irney by Attorney A. S. Worthington.
ho spoke of the high character and j
tegrity of tlie former prosecutor. He i
as seconded in the offer of resolu- ;
ons bv Attorney W. M. Lie win, who j
so eulogized Mr. Birnev.
Assistant Corporation Counsel Ste- ;
tens, as chairman of the Thomas com- i
ittee, offered resolutions of sorrow
id referred feelingly to the services '
r Mr. Thomas in behalf of the I district |
?v.uiuiiiuia, miu to trie speaners long |
;fcociation with him. Corporation
oun.sel Syme eulogized his predecessor
i seconding the resolution.
XEBCISES FOE A. A. BIEHEY.
x-Slave Speaks of Being1 Given
Chance to Study Law.
Exercises III memory of Arthur A. Blr;y
were held at Metropolitan A. M. E. '
tiurch last evening under the auspices
the Bethel Literary and Historical As ciation.
Speakers included Thomas
'alker, an ex-slave, who was given a
tance by Mr. Birney and Mr. Birney's
ther to study law; James Nelll, Thomas
. Johnson. Miss Caroline E. Hall, Syl:ster
L. McLaurin and l'rof. William V.
unnell.
Miss M. A. I>. Madre read a statement
ritten by Mr. Birney, in which he told
' the enlistment by his father of 4,000 j
aves in Maryland in the civil war. j
Others taking part in the exercises were I
M. Dudley. James H. Marshall. Rev. ,
inn. Miss Virginia Williams, Miss L. J. |
loten and Frank Johnson.
HOUSE BOBBED OF $110,000.
ewelry Totaling That Amount
'aken From Home of F. G. Griswold
NEW YORK. October 25.?The Koslyn.
u I., home of Frank Gray Griswold,
portsman and race horse owner, was
obbed Monday night of jewelry valued
t $110,000. It has been learned that a
ear window was left open, as was cusomary.
Fresh tracks of a large autolobile,
in which it Is believed the
hievea traveled, were found In the
ard.
The police declined to state posiively
whether any drug was used by
he thieves, as was asserted at first,
'here are many indications, however,
hat the robbers worked leisurely and
oisily. Strong boxes, jewel cases and
ureau drawers were ransacked. No
ne in the house wan aroused,-and the
obbery was not discovered until the
amily awoke in the morning.
Prisonen to Be Exchanged.
LONDON, October 25.?Baron New*
on, under secretary for foreign affairs,
innounced in the house of lords yesterlay
that the British and German govrnmenti
had agreed to exchange all
nterned prisoners over the age"*of
orty-flve. ^
; m
' j
POM TOOK LIFE 1
ONWKBEUEF
Scene of Mysterious Cremation
of Maryland Farmer
Amid Foxes' Dens.
BONES ARE BURIED TODAY
i
Special Dispatch to The Star. '
FORESTVILLE. Md., October 25. ?
Residents of this section are deeply in- i
terested in the mystery of the finding j
of the charred bones of Frank Pogchl, |
fift" vanya nM u-hn rliasinnparArf frnrrj i
his home near here August 24. Opinion
is divided as to whether PoseW^committed
suicide or was murdered, it is
stated, but a great majority of the residents
are inclined to the belief that
he took his own life. Interest, in the
case was renewed this morning when
the few bones of the Austrian farmer
were followed to the Catholic cemetery
here by a* few relatives and
friends.
Undertaker Armstrong took the remains
to the Gibbes residence Monday
morning, and this morning William
Sommer. his brother-in-law, went
there and accompanied the funeral j
party to the church, where his wife
and other members of the family joined
i the party. Solemn high mass was conducted
by Rev. Francis J. Uoughran,
pastor. Interment was in the church
cemetery.
Once Lost His Mind.
Poschl. who lost his reasoning powers
a year after the death of his wife
and was taken to Spring Grove Hospital
for the Insane, it was thought
had fully recovered. He lived with
the Sommer family, less than two miles
from here, and had worked on the
farm of Dr. W. W. Stewart. "Belle
Chance." from time to time. His
charred bones were found in the
woods in the section known as Fox
Cover, so named, it is stated, because
of the number of fox dens there.
That Poschl was morbid at times i
there can be no doubt, and his state- J
ments to members of Dr. Stewart's ;
family convinced them that lie probably
ended his life ?n the funeral pyre.
Dr. Stewart, however, says there are
some things connected with the affair
that makes the case appear mysterious.
He said this morning that the j
leg bones were not found with the
skull, vertebrae and numerous small j
bones.
Dog May Have Got Bones.
"What became of the leg bones.''
the doctor said, "is a mystery. This
section is infested with hounds, and
it is possible the dogs dragged them *
from the place where the body was
burned."
Dr. Stewart said he was certain that
bussards bad tampered with what flesh
was left on the bones, aqd suggested
that something might yet be found In
the woods that will throw light on the
affair. Sheriff Harry B. Gates and his
deputy this morning went to Baltimore
to take prisoners to the state penitentiary.
and were unable to resume the
investigation.
"It's difficult to tell Just how Poschl
was killed," the sheriff stated. "Some
of the more important witnesses at
the inquest seemed well satisfied with
the suicide theory, but such a verdict
was not reached."
Dr. J. E. Sansbury, who attended j
Poschl at the time he was committed j
to the insane asylum, is strongly of j
the opinion that the case is one of j
suicide and not murder. j
Not Steadily Employed.
it is stated that Poschl looked upon ;
Dr. Stewart as being one of his best i
friends. He would not accept steady .
employment on the physician's farm,
however, giving as a reason that he i
was not able to do justice to th" work.
On numerous occasions, it is stated,
Poschl's statements made to Mrs. Ste- I
wart and her daughter suggested the !
possibility that his mentality was far
from normal.
Poschl told them he had committed \
an unpardonable sin, for which punish,
ment could not be too severe. Jumping
in a fire and burning to death, he said,
would not be too severe, and he expressed
a desire that when he died
unci c euuutu nui ue auyuiing Jell OI
him to bury.
"If there is," he said, "I want to be
buried in the grave with my wife." 1
The Poach la had no children. The <
husband was very fond of children, j
friends say, and hia statements made in
court when he applied to Judge Merrick
for naturalization papers indicated ^
an anxiety for three heirs. 1
voided Spread of Fire.
Discussing the affair this morning
Dr. Stewart said Poach! was an expert j
woodsman and splendid farm worker. He I
knew every foot of the woods in which '
his bones were found, and if lie com- i
mitted suicide he was careful to mike j ?
every preparation against the spread- j '
ing of the tire to the woods, the owner | J
of the land said.
Had the woods been dry at the lime H
the fire occurred. I?r. Stewart said, it | i
seems that the fire could not have been j
checked, but only the green condition ]
of the trees and undergrowth pre- j
vented considerable fire damage. 1
The ground where the fire occurred, '
he said, was so well cleared of underbrush
that it showed the exercise of '
much care to prevent the flames from *
spreading, but whether Poschl or some!1
other person did the clearing possibly!;
will never be determined.
When Poschl left his home August : 1
1 24 his sister was satisfied that he went ; (
j in the direction of the home of her
i sister. Mrs. Frank Gibbes, Centerville, ^
: where he said he was going to pay a
visit. The place where the charred j
I bones were found is In an entirely dif- j
ferent direction, however, and not a!
'great distance from Jiis home. It is!
on a piece of ground from which timber j
had been cut during recent years and t |
not far from the edge of a large piece
of woods. A small gum tree stood in
| the center of the funeral pyre. It was
i badly charred about the robts, but the
I top of it had been burned away.
William Sommer offered a reward of ,
I *50 fnr {nfnrmaUnn loaning to th?l
whereabout* of the missing man. It ' '
was offered In the name of Dr. Stewart, 1
and word was received that he was J i
working in another part of the country. ,
but the workman referred to proved to
be another individual.
i
Could Not Stand Pain, Is Belief.
Dr. Stewart is unable to realize that ]
Posehi or any other person could start.i
a fire and deliberately throw himself;1
Into ft. thinking he could not stand ]
the suffering long enough to* be rendered
unconscious. On the other hand, i
It was suggested that the farm hand,
unable to comprehend his surroundings,
remained in the woods several
days without food and was in a weakened
condition, physically and mentally,
and was unable to realise his suffering
from the Are.
Sheriff Gates and State's Attorney S.
Vfarvin Peach will continue their investigation
of the death with a view to
unearthing something that may solve
the mystery to their full satisfaction.
k '
DISTRICT TO FOLLOW '
U. S. ON HALF HOLIDAY
&ction by Federal Government Will
Be Copied, in Opinion of Com*
miwioner Browalow. c
_____ J'
I1
The District government "will fall j 1
n line if the federal departments e?- ] r
ablish a Saturday half holiday.
Commissioner Brownlow today, in }
leclaring himself in favor of the half- f
loliday plan, stated that, while the j t
nunicipality is not likely to take any ; t
nitiative in the matter, it will be prac- j ^
:ically certain to follow whatever ac- | ^
:ion is taken by the federal govern- ? f
nent. 11
The Commissioners as a board have <; ^
lot acted on the half-holiday sugges- j
ion, and will not officially express j
hemselves concerning it until the re- s
urn of Commissioner Newman, who j <
vill be out of the city for a week or j J
en days.
In recording his personal views, j
Commissioner Brownlow today said j |
hat he thought the Saturday half j
loliday would tend to promote effi- ;
nency on me part o; tne ?iericai loree,
itid that the interests of the District
vould be promoted by the issuance of ,
luch an order. I ^
Wilson National Eight-Hour
League Drafting Resolutions
for Saturday Half Holidays,
Resolutions setting: forth the argu- ; c
nents in favor of a year-round Satur- i *
iay half holiday for government eni- I A
>loyes and urging: continued efforts 1
ilong this line are being drafted by ; 1
egislative committee of the Wilson *
National Eight-hour Deague for pre- x
mentation to all members of the cabinet
md heads of federal departments.
This action is being taken under in- ;
itruction from ail unanimous vote of
he league, which lias pledged itself to
;o-operate to the limit of its ability in
Lhe campaign to get the half holiday!.,
extension. The league now has a mcmtiership
of more th ;n t>,00tl in this city '
ilone. c
On invitation from the Wilson-Mar-hall
Club the members of the Wilson
National Eight-hour League, as a body,
will attend the "Wilson day" mass t
meeting next Saturday night in Convention
Hall. A large section of the
liall has been reserved for their accommodation.
Permanent officers of the league are:
John H. Lorch, president: P. A. Sufi
ue, secretary; William Schaffer. treasurer;
Andrew Kimmel, sergeant-aturms;
Samuel (Jumpers. Frank Morri- |
son, John B. Colpoys, John H. Fergu- i
son. Newton A. James. Waller J. Cos- |
tcllo, Samuel DeNedrey, John Hartley, j
Clarence Cooper, Jeremiah F. McCar- j
thy. Charles W. Darr, Robert E. Mat- ,
ingly. John F. Costello and Frank Daly, j
vice presidents. I
?
RUSSIAN CASUALTIES HEAVY, j
German Reports Place Total at j
1 797 599. T?WP 1
B?ALINi October 25, by wireless to J
Sayville.?There have been 1,797,522
casualties in the Russian army since
June 1, according to the latest reports
made public by the central identification
office at Kief, says an Overseas
News Agency statement today. (
"Included in this number." continues
the statement, "are 85,981 officers.
Among officers who have recently fallen
ure two generals, six colonels in com- [
mand of brigades and eight colonels
i.nd lieutenant colonels In command of
regiments. The largest number of
casualties was among the Siberiun *
Corps and the Caucasian cavalry."
i - d
ri
o
Save Today's Paper
for the School
r*? a a
vmmiwi fiaygrounu tl
Fond; ' I
I? .
A
ITALIAN CAVALRY JOINS
ALLIES IN MACEDONIA
t
Jives the Entente Powers an Unbroken
Line Across Balkan
Peninsula.
PARIS, October Ii5, noon.?Italian
:avalry from southern Albania formed
injunction yesterday with cavalry and
Lrtillery from the entente forces on the
bfacedonian front, the war office anlounced
today.
Italian forces occupied the Albanian
seaport of Avlona before Italy entered
he war against Austria. No further
perations of consequence were underaken
by the Italians for some time,
>ut in the last few months there have
>een occasional reports that reinforcenents
were being sent to Albania and
hat Italian detachments were pushing
heir way eastward.
The entente allies now have an uniroken
front across the Balkan penintula
from the Aegean sea, at the mouth
f the Struma river, to the Adriatic, at
Vvlona, i\ distance of 230 miles.
EXPLOSION OF DYNAMITE
WRECKS SUBWAY STATION
Charge Put Under Platform Causes
Considerable Damage and Injures
Four Persons.
NEW YORK, October 25.?Explosion
>f a bomb or dyuamite at the 110th
itreet station of the Lenox avenue sub- j
vay line early today did considerable
iamage to that station, smashed the ;
icket agent's booth, injured the agent
(lightly, broke the electric lamps and
vindows in the kiosks, tore off a porion
of the sidewalk overhead and
>roke the windows in some of the
ipartment houses nearby. Traffic in }
he subway was suspended for half an
lour or more as the result of the blast. ,
Police reports show that four perk>ns
were injured.
Inspector Owen Egun of the bureau !
1' combustibles said the explosive was
hom|> containing high-power dynamic.
Ft was placed under the edge of
he platform.
A subway train containinir nassen- :
jer? had left the station just two ratn- i ,
ites before the explosion occurred.
Subway employes at that station said j
hey saw no one loitering about, and ,
lid not know how the explosive was 1 :
>rought into the station. The only i
heory iliey could suggest was that it | J
night have been set off because of the j
itreet railway strike, which has been !
n progress since early in September. | .
The explosion took place before dayight.
It tore up one cf the railway '
ies. broke away a part of the con- 1 !
rote platform, wrecked the confec- *
ionery and news stand and threw the i
icket chopper twenty feet from his *
lost. The explosion was heard nearly
, mile away.
DANCING MOST POPULAE. '
ieport oil Entertainment of Chicago
Social Centers. j
CHICAGO, October 25.?Dancing is
he most popular form of entertalnnent
at the social centers of the Chiago
public school system, according 1
o a report made public today by the i
ioard of education. When the social <
enters were opened there was op- ,
osition to the dances, and only the \
wo-step and waltz were permitted. 1
Vhen the attendance began to in- t
rease the policy"^yas broadened and *
iractically all of the modern dances jj
,-ere sanctioned. Statistics for the last j
ear show that the attendance at the
ancing classes wis 115,044. The gym- ^
iasium classes are next, ?with a total i
f 67,449. !j
j?
Storv nf Air BattU n?ni?d 11
LONDON. October 25.?The British t
dmiralty denies there is any truth in '
he German admiralty's account of the J
attle of German and British aero- t
lanes off the Flanders coast Monday r
fternoon. . ... 1
' C ,
?
1
1
SBoNiDEi"
OF TWO-CENT TRANSFER;
Washington and Old Dominion Penalized
and Directed to Besume
Bridge Bate Also. ]
? . i
An ordfer of-faT-reaehing Importance *
was handed down today by the public
utilities commission, penalizing the ,
Washington and Old Dominion Rail-j 1
way Company for discontinuing its '
former rates over the Aqueduct bridge ?
without the commission's authority and <
directing restoration of the 2-cent' *
bridge rate and transfer arrangement
with the Capital Traction Company I
within the District.
The ruling follows the action of the :
Washington and Old Dominion Railway
Company in canceling the former ar- I
rangement between that concern and j J
the Capital Traction Company, under S
which a 5-cent ticket was good for a j
continuous ride between any point on j
the Capital iVaction Company's line!
and Cherrydale. Va.
In its decision the commission holds
that the Capital Traction Company is
without blame in the matter, but di- ^
rects the corporation counsel to take <
any steps that he may consider nece-s- 1
nary to impose upon and collect from
the Washington and Old Dominion rail- '
way penalties provided for violation <
of the law. It also directs the company .
within ten days to conform its rates of
fares from the south end of the Aque- 1
duct bridge, in the District, to its ter- 1
minal at 36th and M streets to 2 cents, (
and vice versa, and its fare from the
south end of the bridge to any point g
on the Capital Traction Company lines jj
to 5 cents or six. tickets for a quarter, j
and vice versa.
DISTRICT TEAM FINISHES I
SEVENTEENTH IN SHOOT \
Special Dispatch to The Star. 1
JACKSONVILLE, Fla? October 2o.? J
The District of Columbia civilian club s
finished seventeenth, and the high "v
school team eighteenth yesterday
imong the teams completing the firing ^
on the rapid-fire and 000-yard courses
of the national team match of the an- |
uual rifle matches being held at the
state camp range near here.
The California National Guard team
with 2,92-1 points out of a possible i_
3,000, today was leading the eight ^
teams which finished the team match
yesterday, under the auspices of the n
riatlnnol lmnrH fnr '
practice. The Ohio civilian team was |
3econd with 2.880, and the Missouri i
civilian team third with 2,856. ?
The remaining five teams which fin- c
ished shooting yesterday in the face v
>f a cold, tricky wind, are Michigan ;
civilian, 2,7i>0; South Dakota civilian. ,
1,577. Utah civilian, 2,477; Arkansas ^
civilian. 2,105, 'and Florida Military ;
V cade my, 1,1)35. - '<
There were fifty-five teams in ihe ;.11
went, and iho others fired the rapid- i j1
ire and the 000-yard stages and will I ^
?o on the range today to fire the 1,000- j
.'ard concluding stage.
EXPECT MORE BRITISH GOLD. ! ">
' ' ri
Bankers Predict Imports to Go a
High?$350,000,000 Since May.
NEW YORK, October 25. ? Rankers
iere expect that the British treasury
will continue to export gold' to this hi
sountry as fast as the government 82
nints can handle it. Since Monday of **
ast week gold valued at $26,000,000 has
rntered the local Assay office. Since
Lfsiv- 1 (i the total value of British trnM !
tent to the United States lias reached '
;35o.oo?.uoo.
Jt was said today tha,t several. Can - i
Ldian cities will ship gold to New |
fork in addition to exports direct from j
condor. The assay office, it is under- P<
itood, stands ready to* receive $15,000,- 'al
iOO a week for an indefinite period.
The British government, according to p
lankers, wishes to pay cash for goods t*1
ought here, and while the proceeds of m
he various loans have gone further in
o meet this requirement than the ac- th
ual gold, still the British officials th
rant to supplement the loane constant* in
y with more andrmore gold*. b<
t: '.... ...? ' -
BRIDGEHEAD TAKEN
BY VONJACKENSEN
Capture of Tchernavoda on
the Danube by Teutons
Is Conceded.
VULCAN PASS ALSO TAKEN
tjy the Aimociated Frew.
BUCHAREST, October 25. via London,
2:215 p.m.?Rant an in** force* operating
ia tbe Black aea province of
Dohrudja have retired to the north of
the Danube town of Tchernavoda. according
to the Romanian official statement
today.
PETROGRAD, October 25, via London,
2:30 p.m.?The Rumanians and
Russians have evacuated the Danube
town of Tchernavoda, in Dobrudja, the
war office announced today.
The statement says Field Marshal
von Mackcnsen's army is continuing:
its attack all along the Dobrudja front.
The Russo-Runmnian position at Lake
Tachaul, near the Black sea coast,
about twelve miles north of Constanza,
also has been evacuated.
South of Dorna Watra, near the frontier
junction of Bukowina, Transylvania
and Rumania, the Russians dislodged
the Austro-German forces from
a series of heights, the official announcement
reports, taking some prisoners
and two machine guns.
Vulcan Pass Captured.
BERLIN, October 25, by wireless to
Sayville. N. Y.?Vulcan pass, on the
Transylvania front, has been captured
by Gen. von Ealkenhayn's army, the
war office announced today.
In Dpbrudja pursuit of the Russians;
and Rumanians continues. Tchernavoda
was captured this morning, depriving
the Russians and Rumanians of their
last railroad communication in Dobrudja.
vv ith Tcnemavoda in their hands, the
Germans and their allies in Dobrudja now
have possession of the entire railroad be.tween
the Black sea and the Danube. At
rchernavoda the Danube is spanned by
a railroad bridge which would offer the
reutonic allies the best means of invading
Old Rumania and striking at Bucharest,
provided the Rumanians were
unable to destroy it before the evacuation.
Vulcan pass is one of the important
oassages through the Transylvanian Alp^
between Hungary and Rumania. It is
midway between the Iron Gates of the
Damibe and Rothenthurm pass, south of
Hermannstadt.
Further Rumanian Retirement.
BUCHAREST. October 25, via London.
L :34 p.m.?A further retirement by Rumanian
forces on the Transylvanian front
i? announced by the war office. The Rumanians
near Predeal and Kimpolung. the
statement says, were forced to fall back
i little.
The left wing of the Rumanian and Russian
forces in Dobrudja has been oblisrod
Lo retire toward Tzara Murat. twelve
miles north of the Constanza-Tchernavoda 1
-ailroad line, says the Rumanian official
atatement issued today. Forces of the
central powers and their allies have occupied
Constanza.
PRESIDENT STARTS TODAY
ON TRIP TO CINCINNATI
Stops at Philadelphia This Afternoon
and at Baltimore Tonight.
Beaching There Tomorrow.
LuNO KRAXCH, X. J., October -5.?
President Wilson left here at noon toiay
for Cincinnati, where he will njake
three addresses tomorrow, llrs. Wilson,
Secretary Tumulty and Dr. C. T.
jlrayson, the White House physician,
accompany him. He is due to arrive
it Philadelphia at 3:4t> p.m. and at
Baltimore at 6 p.m. and to reach Cin:innati
at 11:30 a.m. tomorrow.
James W. Gerard, American ambassador
to Germany, lunched with the
President yesterday and remained with
dm afterward for more than two hours.
Ambassador Gerard would not say
specifically that he had discussed the
submarine issue or peace with the
President, but in reply to each direct
juestion replied: "We discussed the
>ntire situation." He did say, however,
hat it could be taken for granted that
le would not be away from his post if
le believed any immediate emergency
ras threatening. He. declared he hail j
lot begun to make definite plans for j
ailing and would not do so for sveral j
reeks.
J. S.-MEXICO COMMISSION i
flAY MOVE TO WASHINGTON
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J., October 25.? j
Inofficial consideration is being given!
y the Mexican-American joint com-1
lisxion to a suggestion that it trans
er its conferences'to Washington be- j.
ause of the better facilities there for
btaining records, it is pointed out,-the ,
ommissioners might expedite their
rork there. It was indicated today
hat it was not improbable that this ;
ould be the last week in Atlantic ,
ity.
When the commissioners met today
ue -\mericaiis were m recenjt ui niait (
lid \Va?- department reports of Villa's !
ctivjties near Chihuahua, but the
lexicans were yet without official in- j
>rmation. It was expected* the re- i
umption of the conferences would be !
larked by a study of the reports at j
and and their consideration in the
gi\t of the commissioners' efforts, to |
?ach an agreement 011 some practical
nd-amicable plan of border control.
Held as Commercial Spies. ,
BERN, October 24, "via Paris, Qcto- (
jr 25.?Police Chief \^alder of Heri- y
iu and a man named Preysig, head of t
le detective department, have been ?
rested on a charge of commercial | i
?ying for having delivered to foreign j |
luntries a black list of the Swiss em- 1
oidery industry. i
9 I
No Colonization of Poles.
PETROORAD, October 25. ? The
etrograd semi-official news agency is- t
:e& a brief statement, denying the re- I
>rt, piibli^ed in America, alleging v
le intention of the Russian govern- J
ent to colonize 1,000,000 Russian Poles g
South America. "This report," says 1
le news agency, "is.a pure invention,
le Russian government never dream- t
g of expatriating Poles, which would i
5 opposed to Its own intesssts."
J
FRENCH AT VERDUN
DELIVER SMASHING
BLOWTOGERMANS
Recapture in One Day Ground
Enemy Fought Months
to Gain.
REPULSE COUNTER ATTACK
By the Associated Preea.
PARIS, October 25.?In a now
erful series of attacks on the Verdun
front the French yesterday
captured the village and fort of
Douaumont, advanced beyond the
Thiaumont work- and farm and
occupied also the HaudromonC
quarries, north of Verdun.
Germans made counter attacks
last night in an effort to regain
the ground won by the French in
yesterday's assault. They attempted
to recapture the Haudromont
quarries and the Damloup
battery. The war office announces
that in both cases they were repulsed.
The French gains were
maintained. The German officer
in command at Fort Douaumont
is among the prisoners taken.
Took Germans by Surprise.
The French attack at Verdun verierday
apparently took the Germans completely
by surprise, and not at one point
did th-^y succee-l in stooning the impetuous
rush. In three hours the French
recaptured groan J to gam w'a' :n required
months of patient effort by the
Germans, including sccli positions :;s
Douaumont fort and ttifarmon: work, |
which in the past were won arid lost
rercatc-dly.
The French account of the
battle, every word of whiMi was
weighed carefullv, does not say the
German line was lorred back, but that
it was "burst." f^ater details of the
French victory show tnat :ts extent
M as as much of i surpris - to the
French as it must hive been to the
Germans. Gen. Pota-n regarded the
front east of the Mouse as too cramp* d
?iuu BugBwieu 10 ven iMveiie, tne cow.mander
of Verdun, rh-it ho give himself
more elbow room. With that <<ud lit
view infantry was sent up to rolofirce
the French, and artillery was ordered
for the establishment 01* new batteries.
Preparations Kept Secret.
The aviation department was commissioned
to make an exhaustive survey
of the position of the German batteries
and points of assembly. Tnis work v/as
carried out, and the secret wis kept so
well that to all a po?* .-trances the Germans
never had m inkling of what was 4
in prospect.
Furthermore, they evidently believed
the energies of the French were bing absorbed
by the battle of the Sommc and \
made no preparations to meet a thrust
j at Verdun. Thus it came about that
! what was intended for a small maneuver
j became a brilliant tactical success. , J
The attack was planned for ten days
; ago. Atillery began preliminary work,
i but rainy weather set in and grand heau|
quarters ordered a postponement. When
i the time came the attack was delivered i
by lour columns of a division each, first
on the left, between the southern slopes
of Pepper Hill and Thiaumont farm.
This met with little difficulty. The attackers
carried Thiaumont work and farm
i and the Haudromoni quarries, set as the
i objective, and gained the Bras-Douaumont
road beyond. There the attackers stopped,
having advanced about a mile.
The second column was a oolonial division
under Gen. Mangin. from the corps
which retook Douaumont fort hist May.
The task assigned to it was to take Hill
32l>. northeast of Fleury and the edge of
Cailiette wood. The offensive there was
even more rapid than on the left wing.
Clear for Further Advance.
Gen. Mangin immediately saw he could
advance further, and the commanding
officer was, therefore, informed that preparations
had been made to continue the
attack. Hill 320 was rushed by troops
from Fleury, which approached Cailiette
vv wu 1111 inr tcicuiiiifu ivtvinc ui
Death. They then crossed the wood and
reached the approaches to Douaumont
fort. Kverywhere the Germans save way
before them. Howtver. the garrison of
the fort hurriedly prepared to defend the
important point confided to it. French
troops surrounded the fort and extended
their gains everywhere without an instant's
delay. Fatigue parties set to work
turning the defenses, so as*to be ready to
resist counter attacks.
West of the fort the village of Douaumont
had been carried at a run and passed
beyond. Meanwhile a stiff struggle
went on between the French and the defenders
of the fort. The Germans refused
to surrender, and the French killed nearly
all of them before they forced their tray
into the ruins.
Things went equallv well on the right.
The third column advanced half a mile,
reaching the edge of Vaux pond and carrying
the part of the Vaux-Chapitre wood
still held by the enemy, as well as Fumin
wood. The column stopped north of theeo
woods on the outskirts of the village of
Vsnx.
The fourth column, which was ordered
to operate in the vicinity of
Vaux fort without taking it, followed
out the program exactly. It drove out
the Germans from Ohenois and Laufee
woods, captured Damloup battery and,
[lushing ahead, encircled Vaux fort on
the east, south and west, so that the
defenders have no way of issue expect
to the north. ?
TT .
jjjkicuua i?cjruuu v aujL. ^
The Germans, who yesterday J
pressing close upon the inner line of I
iefenses at Ports Souvllle and Ta* I
rannes. have now been driven beyond 1
:he outer- defenses of the Fort Dotigu- I
nont-Vaux lilie. Fort Vaux remans I
n possession of the Germans, but .aha I
French line extends beyond it on "the 1
lorth at Vaux village and Fumln wM>d, I
ind also on the south of it at Dam- I
cup battery apd Chenois wood, from S
?oth of which positions It can readily 1
>e attacked. I
The French artillery preparation was fl
>rief but intense and was over before -
he German commanders "had time to M
>ring up reinforcements, even If they a
vere available. The assaulting French :1 I
vaves caught them before the Ger
nans recovered from their surprise ^nd I
wept over trench after trench, send
ng prisoners In all lines to the rear.
French losses were very light, if la H
elieved, even lighter than any recorded
n the attacks on the Somma frortt. . - 7M
News of the success hi^causedib**
a. 1
