Jstitt
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day; rain to-night or to-morrow
moderate easterly winds.
Highest ttnperature yesterday, fli ; lowest, 45.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 13,
IT SHINES FOB ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 55.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1916. Copyright, 1911!. hy the Sun Printing nnit Pu'jHihlng Association.
ONE CENT
la Greater New York.
.Jersey tllr and Newark.
It:heHliere
THO t'KNTB.
HUGHES SPURNS
DISLOYAL VOTES
IN 3 SPEECHES
His Spirited ltoply to
go of Intrigue Stirs
Audiences.
WILL XOT TOLERATE
ALIEN CONSPIRATORS
rroinises Exclusively Amer
ican Policy in Service of
American Interests.
CANDIDATE GREETED
BY GREAT CROWDS
Makes Whirlwind Cam
paign in Astoria. Harlem
and The Bronx.
"It l hardly necessary to nay that If
I im elected we shall have an exclu-
slvely American policy In the service of M()f c M fc j, Iupr
American Interests. We have no secret
understandings, no unstated purposes.
If any one expects In cas of my elec
tion that American rights or Interests
mill be subordinated to any ulterior pur- j
pose or to the policy of any foreign i
Tower he I doomed to disappointment."
Charles E. Hughes said that last night
In the Schuetxen. Park Hall, Astoria, to
1.000 persons, who Jumped to their feet
and applauded till they were tired out.
Ills latest and most vigorous contrlbu
t.on to the "hyphen" controversy was de
livered In a neighborhood largely Inhab
ited by Oermans. It was an answer to
the c ."urges that have Issued from the
Democratic national headquarters as a
tetult of Jeremiah O'Leary'a vie It to Mr.
Hughes on September IT In the Hotel
Aster.
It was the first of Mr. Hughes's three
rapid fire addressee In this city, I lav-1 movement among womankind. This prtn
inc motored from Montclalr In the late clple la now In operation and I look for
afternoon with memboia of his staff, he I ward with complete confidence to its
mnk up hta quarters as before In the I vindication."
Hotel Ae'.or, and at 7 I'. M. headed for 1
Astoria
by way of the Queensboro
bridge.
Large Crowds Greet Mini.
Ills message of Americanism having ,
k?en alven In plajn terms, he was off .
again at K:10 In the direction of the
.New Star Casino In Harlem. His third
speech was In Hunts Point Palace In The
nrenx. in each or tne uiree counties he
encountered crowd which filled the halls
and the surrounding streets and gave
him uproarious greetings.
In his Schuetxen Park Hall speech
Mr. Hughes, after denying that any e
fret Agreements had been made with any i
union, said:
I mi in lnU. f, ..,,1 !.- " " ITOmillino , iovel llllieiu, II W'HS
,11 fre..n JuStJ w '"ll'' " meeting to-day of ,
Kn" T; M,iPrEt,h shareholders of the Canadian Ford
1 A.dm'nMra"" w ,'c-,wh:' Motor Company that no dividend action
to
i 'inducting our intercourse with nil na
'ions with absolute fairness, will tin
ninchlngly maintain American rights on
land and sea. We shall not tolerate the
uce of our soil for the purpose of alien
intrigues.
"We shall not permit foreign Influences
or threats from any quarter to swerve
uur action. I said long ago that, whether
native or uaturallxed, of whatever raco
or creed, we have but one country, nnd
we shall not tolerate any division of al
legiance. That I repeat. I believe that
the great mass of our pcoplo are sin
cerely patriotic.
"I want the support of every true
American who believes In the principles
for which I stand, whatever his race. I
don't want the support of any one to
wiiom the Interest of thl
upreme.
nation Is not '
Wants Only l.ojal Votes. j
"As to anv oerson whose allegiance to l
our flair Is nnl slmnte and eoinulete." con-
tlnued Mr. Hughes In a warning tone,
"who would not Instantly champion the
lights and Interests of our country
galnt any country on earth, who wants
Impunity for foreign agression, or who
would have the power of this nation held
-w. , ,c "
captive to any foreign Influence or
served by alien machinations, let him
not vote for me.
Ills auditors were with him to a man
when he said that. Lp they Jumped, somo
to chairs and benches, waving their hats,
or anything that came handy. Mr. Hughes
had to wait for several minutes before
they let him finish his speech.
His economic nollcles were voiced with i
Just as much vigor and Just as sweeping I
n effect as his patriotic theme.
"Our opponents told us four tears ago I
tna they were going to reduce tne cost ,
e" rnSeo? &$S$r. K i
I ' .T ", niw ....-...
rubllcan AdmlnHtratlou. They held us ,
iccountable for It. Rut tliat mlnly ,
Initnarable companion Is still wlthsus
They have not t6uched the cost of living.
Bat what they did do was to decrease the
chances of making a living."
A Heekler Arises.
It was at this point that a heckler
rn and demanded In a husky voice s
"What did you do as Oovernor of
N'- York?"
When Mr. Hughes teplled that he had
done many things In Albany, the audl
fiire lose to him again.
"Mr. Chairman, there's a bug In the
houie!" shouted somebody, and that
finished the heckler.
"We had prosperity created by the
Kuropean war." continued Mr. Hughes.,
"e don't want prosperity of an ab-1
normal character. We want sound pros-
-vJ: ......
' ' nnyr lu'iia; mot iiuiuuiiv ui
ishor that Is employed under this un-
l."ltliy stimulus. If the war should
k'l', that labor would hnve nothing to
"o t woo d necessar v comneto with
"'tier labor. We have had all through
''. hind mi abnormal purchasing power
rested hy the fact that we had labor,
due to iIiIb condition, stimulated In this
-'liflelal way.
"Now, that has made trade easy a!
bunt everywhere. That has made cx-
Coa flit ud on BiMth Pigt,
ALEXANDER BROWN
DIES IN AERO FALL
Widely Known Polo Player
Was Maklnff Final Test
for Aviator's LieeiiKe.
Vmt.Atir.i.ridA, Oct. 24. Alexander
llrown, well known ua h polo player,
fell from his hydroaeroplane Into the
Delaware niver nt Hsslngton. below this
city, to-day and was drowned.
llrown. along: with a number of other
wealthy Phlladclphlana. had been mak
ing frequent flights at Ruslngton. fie
was In the air last night, nnd to-dny's
flight wns to have been hta last In a tent
for a licence. IJrown was about 100 feet
up when watchers noticed that some
thing wan wrong, and a moment later
the machine dropped Into the river.
Attaches of the aviation school rushed
In a speedy motorbout to the spot whom
llrown fell, but only the tlpn of the
wings of the machine were visible. The
machine was raised and Hrown was
found wedged tlchlly between stanch
ions. Efforts at resuscitation failed.
llrown not only hnd an International
reputation as a polo player but was also
known as a big name hunter. He was
prominent In social circles of this city,
New York and Newport. Last .May he
announced his decision to dispose of his
string of polo ponies and devote hlm
elf to aviation. He was one of the
most highly handicapped polo players In
thla section of the country and was cap
tain of the llryn Mawr polo club team
last year and the previous year. He was
about 40 years old and la survived by a
widow.
FORD PUTS WOMEN
ON MEN'S PAY BASIS
ins Talk" With Wilson
Caused Action.
Iai.no Hr.ANCll, N. J Oct. 24. Henry
Ford, automobile manufacturer, an
nounced after a conference with Presl
dent Wilson to-day that as the result of
an 'Inspiring talk" he had with the
President two "weeks ago he had estab
lished the women workers In his plants
on the same pay basis as the men. Mr.
Ford authorised this statement:
"I had the pleasure to Inform Presi
dent Wilson this afternoon that I had
established the women workers of my
plant at Detroit and In the branch fac
tories in other cities uion a pay equal
ity with the men workers. I took this
r.tep following my conference with the
President more than two weeks ago, and
i I did so because of the Inspiring talk I
had had with Mr. Wilson on the forwnrd
Mr. Ford came here late to-day to
show the President advertisements sup
porting the Administration which he
Dlaus to have published prior to election.
I When he stepped oft the train and waa
asKea wny no came to Miauow wu ne
r(ni .d .
Up, '
"To get on the Wilson bandwagon.
'NO CANADIAN FORD DIVIDEND.
.
' ' life and property should tne iroops ue
Teat Months' Hro-ta ai.H83,4o8 . withdrawn.
1 It has become Increasingly apparent
Shareholders lne Payment. l(.re t,at the continuance of disturbed
Detsoit. Mich.. Oct. 24. Heeause of I conditions throughout Mexico Is oper
Isrire exncn.llitires for additions s,.,l th. . atllig against the Commissioners In their
payment nf approximately K50,00n war
tax to the Dominion llovernment. It was'
be taken at this time.
The prollts for the ten months ending
Heptember 3(1 totalled Jl,S2S,4r,K, giving
the company a total surplus of $3,155,
IRS. October IS of Inst year a dividend
of J.'OO.OOO was declared. Another $100,
noQ was distributed three months later,
nnd In January nf this year jn.ono.000
was distributed as a stock dividend of
C0U per cent,
ARRESTED AS SLATER OF" FIVE.
St.
l.onU Man Accused of Crimea
Committed Six Years tgo,
ST. Lotus, Mo Oct. 24. Thomas
Metzler, a watchman, wns taken to
Chester, III., to-day to answer tn the
charge of murdering fleorge Douglas,
' his wife and three children on May 5.
itl'O. Metrler denied any knowledge of
crime.
Douglas s house, near Coulterville. III.,
was burned when the entile family wns
wiped out. The day before the fire
Douglas had withdrawn several hundred
dollars from bank, and the theory was
mill ruuwij te inc niuwtn tur WJr
murder and the houae burned to conceal
,"!'., ,,!
Metxler after Hie rrlmn rem
,A..i....,iti. ,n Qn..i. it, ........
weeks In Cutler. III., negotiating with a
man named Carter about going Into
business. The Indictment was returned
on testimony by Carter's wife.
. FLY 260 MILES, 225 MINUTES.
Mperrr and Paaieugrr Speed From
Rrnnt Hock. Mass., to Aniltvvllle.
Kawrenct B. Tvy son of Enler A
tTJS iT ,!
aay arternoon. sbo miles, in zsi minutes
wUhout popping. He carried Robert
Po,.r ,.... ua ntve over a
rough sea, with the wind blowing from
twenty-flve to forty miles an hour, using
a Curtlss flying boat.
His boat was equipped with many of
the lateat deUces which have made long1
distance flying practical. He had a
flperry automatic pilot, which Is a gy-
roscoplu stabiliser : a Sperry synchronized
drift set, consisting of a compass me.
chanlcally connected tn a drift Indicator,
in addition to life preservers, lights,
charts and fifty-five gallons of gasolene.
He reported that a storm Is on Its why
to New York und should reach here
early this morning.
POTATOES LIFT MORTGAGE.
.Irr.ry Farmer Italirt ll,0 Barrels
j . . ,
i
Urn Hani;, N. .1., Oct, S4. Henry
llolmdrl raled 9,200 barrels of potatoes
on eighty acres this year. This was at
' tne rate ot over tio oarteis an acre.
With the proceeds from the yield, he
paid off a 120,000 mortgage still remain
ing on Ills fntm, which ho purchased
three yeais ago for $j",000, paying 17,r,00
down;
Holmdel'a crops on 150 acres, which
he didn't plant potatoes, returned for
the year a profit which the fthrmer calls
"pure velvet."
GARRANZA TO LEAVE
MEXICO, FOES INSIST
Point to Fact That Ills Wife,
Mi'H.'ObroKon anil Mrs.
Travino Are in I). S.
SAY HIS POWER IS WANING
Fir.il Chief's) Decision to Co to
Qnerctaro Menus Flight,
Ts Belief.
By Aitociatti Prmt.
Washington, Oct. 24. Charier that
Carrania Is preparing to leave Mexico
are being made freely hy his political
opponents In Mexico city. They are,
based upon his decision to leave Mexico
city for Queretaro, and the fact that
Mrs. Carranxa already has crossed the
bolder Into the United States, accom-
panled by the wife of her husband s Wnr i
Minister nnd chief supporter, Hen. Obrc-
on.
Information to this effect Is reaching
ortlcliils here from various reliable ,
sources. So far nothing tangible tend-'
lug to support the story has come
through niriclal channels. It Is known. 1
however, that many oniclnls here believe
Carrania has committed n political blun
der at least. If he Is not In fact preparing
for fllrht, hy permitting his family to
leave Mexico Just at this time. The trip,
they say, was certain to be construed
by his enemies ns n confession of wen li
ners. The purpose of the visit of Mrs. Car
ranzu nnd Mrs. Obregon, as explained at
the Mexican Embassy. Is for a tour of
the United Htates. The arrival at Juarez,
on the border, of Mrs. Jnrlnto Trevluo,
wife of the military commnnder of Chi
huahua State, was hIso reported. It waa
pointed out that Oen. Trevlno has bem
among Carranxa's stanchest supjiorters.
and that If tip First Chief believed his
hold on the political situation was weak
ening. Trevlno very probably wou'd !
warned In order that he might also place
his famllv In safety.
The State Department had not re
ceived word to-night that Carrania and
Obregon had left Mexico city for Que
return. Previous advices, however, said
that the First Chief would go to that
plnce In connection with the meeting of
the constitutional convention, for which
delegates were elected last week. This
Is the only explanation obtainable hero
for Carranxa's departure from his capi
tal. Many War Department officials have
privately expressed their conviction that
the rie facto Government, or nt least
Carranxa's personal control of the polit
ical situation, was growing weaker
steadily.
The main point urged by Carrania In
asking for the withdrawal of the Ameri
can troops from Mexico was that their
nreaenee mi Mexican soil wns not under
stood hv the Mexican people and bin-
iiered Ms efforts to establish n civil gov-
.nmii. The Mexican Commlsslonera 1
at Atlantic City have presented this
view to their American colleagues, but
so far have not succeeded In convincing
the Americans or the ability or ineir
i.nv.M.iiiini tn iimtert American border
efforts to reach a solution nf the border
problem,
IA despatch to Iaredo. Tex., In the
morning papers of yesterday said tnal
Carranxa ami Obregon weie aln.idy In
Queretaro.)
DIAZ NEAR CAPITAL.
Ilaa Hlar Forer an- Control thr r.n-
II re State of Mexico.
nnrni.Ai. Arlx.. Oct. 14. Felix Dial
completed the conquest of the Mtate of
.Mexico four days ago. when he entered
Tuluca, the capital, according to a mes
sage received here to-day by a Mexican
Identified with the Diax movement. Dlax
waa said to be but a short distance from
Mexico city with a force of several
thousand men.
A letter from C5en. Medina Tlarron, a
pnitlsnn of Dlax, received here to-day said
lie was In complete control of the Klate
of Collma, having 3.000 men under Ills
icnnnand. lie said that he had ample
funiN for the prosecution of his cam
paign nnd had siilllclent alms and am
munition foi fiO.tWO men.
Advices from the same source raid
that (leu. Agullar, another former Fed
eral commander, nt the head of several
thousand men holds the towns of Knyula
and Amcca, In Jalisco, as well a the
i - - , ' - - , .,.i. ,!,
! surrounding territory for a considerable
. distance, ine -arranzu iun.rn -
cenlrated chiefly around C.uadalajara, It
I W said.
I , rl,0,S.,ate of ,?a,x,av' "."'A 'X etf"
'"n of the capital city of toxaci, has
been overrun by the Dlax adherents, the
letter claimed, and tho Carranxa forces
were said to be surrounded In such a
way that they cannot leave Oaxaca with
out precipitating a general engagement.
Tho forces of Zapata, several thou
sand strong, were In the suburbs of Mex
ico city, less than two miles from tho
moat densely populated quarters.
,
BALLOTS OS WAY TO BORDER.
State OMrlal Off to Texas to Let
10,000 S. Y. daardsmen Vote.
Albant, Oct. SI, Henry G, Adams,
head of the Election nureau of the Sec
retary of 8tate's offlce. left .to-day for
McAllen, Tex.
Ha carried with him the ballots on
which some 10,000 New York National
Guardsmen, stationed on the Mexican
border, will Indicate their choice for
President of the United States, for Gov
ernor nnd, for other State, county nnd
local officers.
SERBS INFLICT HEAVY LOSSES.
Take Teuton Trenches mi Front of
800 Ynrils.
1-onpon, Oct, S4, Serbian Iroops, re-
pelllng uermau ami iiuigurinii counier
attacks at mo nemi or me mver .erna
on the Macedonian front, took tho" of
fensive and with n swift attack took
enemy trenches on a front of i00 yards,
Inflicting heavy losses.
In )ho Ike ,Dolran sector the artil
lery of both armies Is pounding away
at a great rato. The lirltlsh troops, hy
a raid, took about twenty prisoners In
an enemy trench uoar Machukova, about
a mllo east nf the Vardar River,
Along the Struma the floods prevent
further activity. The river still la two
feet above normal.
POLICE BAFFLED BY
$45,000 BURGLARY
Clue Vainly Sought "to .lewd
itoubery in UriNwold Home
at Koslyn, L. I.
TIIIKVKS I'SK MOTOR CAR
Chloroform Occupants of (he
House: Wear flloves to
Kluile Detection.
Detectives Inst night admitted they
are without .1 single tangible clue to the j
burglar who, early .vestcrday morning, '
stole $45,000 worth of Jewelry ami money ,
from CjhsIcIkIi. the Itoslyn. L. I home j
of Mr. and Mrs, Frank iltny tlrlswold, I
after chloroforming the occupants of the I
bis country house. I
Tim thlevet drove In and fiom Itoslyn
In on automobile. Their hand were
cowied with gloves so that linger prints
mlsht not he Uft to lead to their til's-
slble capture. As they pursued tltclr
work of gathering up valuables the ma-
rauders smoked the best cigars they
could flrul In the house. I'revlonsly they j
dad stilled with chloioform fumes the'
fUfwy Pekingese, spaniel, whose built'
would have aroused the household.
Ktuos of clgns left In the library and
other parts of the Colonial mansion hi-1
dlcated the men devoted more than an I
hour In their lslt, W'htn tney departed, I
although they had entered through n
back window, they left by one of the
front ifooiM and drove their car across
the finely cru'l'cjl lawn tint forms part t
of the Cnpslelgh approach, j
Aid of New York Pooler bought.
Mr and Mis. (Jtutwuld yestcrda) de- j
ellneil the !iMlt.ilien nf tilt
count) detectives nnd naked Police Com-'
mlssioner Wood for Ills uld. On the
theory that the buntlam' haunts aie In
New York city the Commissioner as
slKiied three sleuths to Investigate the
Itoslyn grounds. The result of their llrst
dav nurvey can be suminarlxed :
The' till eves hail an accomplice on the
Inside or gained their knowledge of the
premises and the habits of Its occupants '
from some one well acquainted with the
Interior. This surmise Is supported by
tne ract that the burglars did no unnec
essary ransacking, that they knew the
location of the rooms of Mr. Urlswold
and hts wife and wero careful to pre
vent Interference from the noisy little
dog that slept In Mr, flrlswold'a room.
The name of this dog, by the way, la
King King.
With all these preparations against clergymen of the Protestant Episcopal
frustration of their carefully laid plan i ,. . ..., , . ,, tmi,
the looters were within a minute of dls- cllurch minister to the Ills or the body
covcry. Their entry Into the room of as well as to those of the soul in Call
Mies Mary Cas Canfleld, daughter of fnnila may be tested before the State
.irs. unsworn ny a lormer marriage,
was sensed by her despite the rholoro-
form and
from her
nd her sudden fear drove them
room, However, under a lan-
guor she could not fully shake off she
leu nncK mm sieep, ueiieving nerscii
suffering from a hallucination.
Tnelii- erBjiit III thr llooar.
The Orlswold home Is set about mid
way between Itoslyn nnd Wheatley Hills.
It stands a hundred ards back from
tho road, the gravel approach dividing
squarely two splendidly Kept lawns nnd
a box hedge that runs around the house.
It Is of three stories greened over with
Ivy. Two wings balance the main struc
ture, eacli of these wings having a door
ult Ksl. to t i lawn.
Tile lower floor Is the living section
nf the tiiilli-e. Itck of this, overlooking
the villages for miles around, Is a sun
porch, flanked mi the west side by a
library. On the second floor are the
slevtilmc niurters Souarelv In the mid-
1 i ".HV,.. .V:..;'.;" L .i.
rooms of Mr. Orlswold and his wife,
Further down the corridor Miss f:an-
.. . . , . n.,.- .......... .....i...
Ileal lias Iier suue. I in- erriaoo. mi ne
In nil. nceunv the third Moor. All elirhth
of ii mile away Is the garage, with the
quarters of the chauffeurs.
It has been proved by the police thnt
the burglars made their entry through
the library window, tho sill of which Is
only six feet above the ground. Ry
climbing on the shutters of a cellar door
directly beneath It was possible for them
to open the window.
Window Waa Left I'liloeU-ed.
T'ullke the other windows of the hoti'e,
the library window had no outside sum
mer screen. That was removed three
weeks ago, when the window was re
palled, It Is ucllcuM the burglars did
not find It netrssary even lo "Jimmy'
this window open, because no chisel
marks showed on the under str:v nor
was the latch broken. Klther throuuli
carelessness or design th'H window wns
ten iiniociteii iTiimii.
Mud tracks on the rues showed the
marauders had made their wny across
the dewy lawn from the point where
their automobile emu across the grass.
Apparently the burglars realized the rnt
tic made In travelling over gravel and
chose the sound muffling sod.
O.ice Inside, they made their way to
the mom of Mts. l.Tlswold and theie
silenced Sing Sing, the pet dog. Still
folluwIliK the theory built up hy the
police from their observations and llieli,,- tl, Theodore Roosevelt. Jr., and In
stories told hy the Heads or the house -
noiu, tun iiurgiara oterwucimcn iier, recklessly and carelessly as to strike said
nnd then, knowing that their woik might, infant nnd to cause him to sustain se
uttraet attention from the adjoining v,re and lasting injuries."
room, wnere air, wiswoiu sicpi, niey
rippllcd their amesthetlc to him.
Mrs, Orlswold had left some of her
Jew eli y In the drawers of her dressing
table. Inplcklng from this collection
the looters passed her gold lorgnette
and other valuable pieces and took only
'the gem set artlcle. From this they
went to an old French wardrobe, a
Louis XV. rarity, where her more cere
monial articles were kept In
several
cases. They prieu open tun uoor ami
carried out all the cases.
Selected Valuable llrlrlooin.
Only In one paillcular did they de
part from their rule pot to take any
thing but Jewels and that was to take
a gold Inlaid fan that had been In the
Orlswold family for more Hum 130
years. Other fans were there, fans In
trinsically moro valuablo and more
beautiful, but they wen- left in their
places.
Leaving the room of Mrs. ariswolJ
they entered that of her husband. All
thev loon nero were several jewel set
scurf pint, nnd 148 he had In his pocket
book. It Is apparent that at thla point tho
thieves went back to the library to ex
nmlnn their loot, llefore they passed to
the floor below they dropped the cases
that had contained the bnubles buck of
a curtain of a front window. While
downstairs In tha library they acted as
It they had no fear of being disturbed,
Continued on Third Pag,
FRENCH AT VERDUN GAIN
2 MILES; 3,500 PRISONERS
'PHIS map of a section of the Verdun battleground
shows the territory gained by the French yes
terday when they won back from the Germans the
village and fort of Douaumont, which the Teutons
captured at the cost of tens of thousands of lives.
The broken line enclosing the numerals indicates
the area captured, and the numerals mark: 1, i stopped by the
TO TEST EMMANUEL
MOVEMENT RIGHTS
,, ,,, , , ,. ,
( IlllfOi'lUU ISoaril 01 JlOdlClU
Examiners Causes Clerry
man's Arrest.
Has Francisco, Oct. 24. The right of
Supreme Court, attorneys Indicated to
.lay In the case of the Itev. Parker Boyd,
whom Inspectors for the State Hoard of
Medical Kxamlners arrested yesterday
as head of the Emmanuel Health Insti
tute rtn a eharse o f dlaanoFlng without
a medical license. The health Institute
here Is part of the Kminanuel Movement
and Is ,aV.;"'".i
peullc treatment for hysterical Ills. j
The ltev. Mr. lloyil was In police court
to-day. but his coun.el nsked for a con-
tliiuanre nf two weeks to prepare the
case. M. H. Illaucliaid, nttnrney for the
clergin-i. said it Is the desire of the
defence and those representing the
lhnmanuel Movement to have the right"
nf the movement In California threshed
uul for all time, and that an effort would
Ih. made to transfer the case to a higher
-ouit.
..,T7ZT...
n i. r ... ' '" ' " ' V
me t of the principles or psj cnotnernpj ,
was hrouchf Into existence as such by
the Rev. I-.lwood Worcester, u. u., rec-
tor of I-.mmanuel i.nurcn. Jiosion. ne
..-na .I.I...I 1 his n snrlnte. tne Itev.
- , --
Samuel MeComb. The movement is not
antagonistic to the use of medicine, but
describes Iterlf as supplemental to the
work of the physician, particularly In the
treatment of functional disorders of the
nervous system, surn as nervous pios,
trillion, hysteria, hypochondria und even
, alcoholism,
Treatment l pilnelpally by "augges-
t Inn," the removal of morbid conditions
of mind, the Instillation of hope nnd en
couragement and the removal of worry.
Although confining Its treatments prin
cipally tn nervous diseases, the Kmman-
ue Movement, Its adherents claim, is
beneficial In such gravo diseases as
tuberculosis, along with the proper med
ical treatment.
CHILD TO SUE T. ROOSEVELT, JR.
Father Appointed Hoard Inn ad
I. It After Motor Mishap.
Salvatore Fontano of 319 East Six
tieth street was yesterday appointed
guardian ad litem to his infant son,
Nlchnlns Fontano, by Justice I'enleon,
so thnt he might bring suit for damages
against Theodoic Roosevelt, Jr., on be
half of the child, who was Injured In an
automobile accident.
Foiituno'a- allldavlt sets forth that on
August -7, 131 R. an automobile belong
1 charge ot his driver, "was driven so.
U-53 REPORTED SUNK.
Story Brought tn tlnatnn by Captain
nf British Ship.
Boston. Oct. 24. Capt, W. G. Tudor
of the British steamship Hochelaga.
which arrived to-day from Ixiulshurg.
1 said that before he left Nova Scotia
nerslstcnt rumors were current that the
German U-boat S3 had been sunk off
Sydney, N. S., hy the .Canadian patrol
boat Stanley. Ho said ho wns -umtble
tn verily tho report,
"Refore I left Loulshurg I was told
by a shipping man thnt I need not worry
about the German submarine," said
Capt. Tudor. 'This man said the U-boat
would not bother any more Rrltlsh ves
sels, because Bhe had been sunk by tho
Stanley,"
TWO BOY SKATERS KILLED.
Both Hun Iloivn by Automobiles In
Brooklyn.
Two boys on roller skutes were killed
by automobiles In Rrooklyn last night.
Joseph Vlcacco, 14, of 358 Leonard
street skated In front of a motor mov
ing tfuck at Bklllman avenue and Leon
ard street,
Samuel I'erlmnn, 13, of 74 Grattan
street was run over nt Grattan streot
and Knickerbocker avenue. The drivers
were not arrested.
began, untl July
Fort Douaumont Taken in
Unexpected Attack on
Four Mile Front.
HAUDROMOXT QUARRY
ALSO HELD BY PETAIX
Army of Crown Prince Be
lieved Stripped for
Somnie Operations.
Paris, Oct. !4.
Fiench broke tho
-Dramatically
long monotony
the
of
deadlock a erdun to-day by striking '
a blow which was nt once the quickest
Hml t10 moH pffcClvc the Germans have
on that bloodiest of the world's
battlefields,
All France Is exultant tn-nlght, nnd
a,,,a7f( Kor , 0nv .viVciie
''l" took the village and Fort of
Douaumont. the Haiidromont quarries,
and penetrated the labyrinths nf fler-
mant,.rncl) am, dugouts, amounting In
" ...
effect to fortresses, on a front of more
than fuur miles and to a depth at some
points of nearly two miles. More, the
offlclal statement ndds that prisoners
.... . .,
counted so far number 3.500 and the
quantity of stores captured cannot be
tmPtPU- It concludes with the brief,
1
, .., i,ntn-,,nl .nl.n'
but significant sentence.
"Our losses were small.''
i:plauatlon efn,
Fresh In every Frenchman's mind Is
Die roiuei'tiMted horror which followed
the launching of the Crown Prince's
drive at Verdun, when men fell on the
slopes lending to Fort Douaumont until
It became ircoguized as earth's greatest
rhambles. (leiman losses alone were put
nt 30,1100 before the foil was won by
them. It Is literally true that every
yard of advance wiw paid for by him
dleds of lies and days of car splitting
hell. Yet III an advance which w.is'not
begun until almost noon the French won
Imck before night an area which they
were forced to yield only after two
months of mauling. To-day's gain cor
respond k almost exactly to all the French
l(Mt In the spring.
The explanation. It Is believed, Is to
be found In a despatch received to-day
.from , !f.lbrrle' corresinmdent on the
Somme front. The Kaiser, he says, Is
lepoitcd to be at Mapaume, personally
ovtrseelng the preliminaries for a for
midable counter offensive there, which
the Germans bejoud a doubt have in
view.
"The German army on the Somme
flout Is said to have received strong re
enforcements in Infantry, nnd more espe
cially In artillery," he adds. The bom
bardment to-day between the Ancre
Hrook and the Somme River grew In
tense, It If supposed to presage the
launching of the gieat counter blow In
tended to check the Anglo-Ficnch ad
vance and relieve a situation which
grows more critical for the Teutons each
' day.
Ml ruck Without Warning,
The weight of evidence therefore seems
to be that- the Crown Ii luce's armies
before Verdun were stripped to furnish
troops and guns for the Intended new
phase of the battle In Plcardy. Gen.
Nivelle. caught them at It and struck
without warning a sudden and terrible
blow.
Tho preparations were kept a profound
m) story to the public. The nlllclal com
muniques have been dumb as to Verdun,
except as occasionally aerial activity
was mentioned probably the reconnal-
sauces which revealed the thinning of ,
the enemy line. As Into as this after- ,
noon the communique, after tccltlng
events on the Somme, said . ,
"There Is nothing to icpoit fumi the.
remainder of the front." ,
Hut to-night it was announced Unit ,
after a. formidable preliminary blasting
hy the artillery reminiscent of the days i
In early spring wnen vermin was the
focal point of tho world's Interest the
Infantry advanced all along the Hue.
fiom the east bank nf the .Mouse to tho
Damloup battery, fou
ur and a third miles
to tne east, ino statement says:
"On the Verdun front, after Intense
artillery preparation, an attack on the
right Istnk ot the Meuse was launched
Douaumont village; 2, Fort Douaumont; 3, Thiau
mont work and farm; 4, Haudromout quarries, and
G, the vitiligo of Vnux. The shaded portion of the
map shows the territory gained by the Germans be
tween February 21, when their big drive on Verdun
m, wncn iney were eneciuauy
troops of Gens. Petain and Nivelle
AMERICAN MARINES
RILLED IN BATTLE
Dominican Rclicls Attack
When Gen. Uatistu Resists
Arrest He Dies in Fiplit.
Santo Dominoo, Oct. !4. In an en
gagement between American marines
and rebel forces to-day Gen. Ramon
Batista was killed. Several Americans
nre also reported killed, Including two
i fllccrs, and one American officer was
wounded.
The names of the American ofllcers
v nnJ AlwooJ(:). Uout Vctor L
Morrison was wounded. " 'tuioani.iii mwii, wnn tmu prisoners.
The American commander attempted The ottlclal statement of the German
tn arrest Gen. IJatlftn, who resisted and r omce adds;
ordered an attack on the American 'M ,l,r 'ollfiern exit of Itothenthurm
forces. Fighting continued for a con- , V1" ,h tron,t mirinlun teslstance of
slderable time, but the rebels e equally ,n0 'a,t f,"w ,n'!' broken."
Were defeated. Tredeal Is south of Kronstadt, at the
The engagement took place opposite I IJuinanlan end of an Impoitant pass of
S.into Doming,) city and caused some-' "1" fama name, for :ios!.esion of which
what of a panic In the capital. Reen- hard fighting has been going on for sonm
tore mi nts were s,.nt there tn aid the I,,,P: '" farl' FV''1' h,'K'1' 'he Itiimanlans,
American troops In maintaining order. ,n,'lr Invasion of Trans) Ivanla piovlng
The number of killed and wounded In'"" considered ndvcnttiie, fell back to
the tight Is at ptesent not known. i l11' mountains and made tlit.ii- stand.
WASliiMtTtiN', Oct. 21. No icport on The oltlclal Ktateinent of the Itiisslan
the light In San Domingo had it'.iihed War Oilier admits the capture of Con
nie Navy liep.utniciit to-night, but of-
flila:s ussumeil lliat t'ie latest olltbieak
was ti. work 0f :1 Mu.iii hand of lebels
who lectnlly revolted fioni the Domini
can army and that It did not piesaKe
. .... . .... .... .
nnv general attempt at disorder Las'
lepoits from the Island told of coiiin.iia.
tho quiet thl ouuhout the republic, where
the American mailne foices . lmsc
organizing the native conMabulai v. which
Is to police the touutiy under lh dl-
lection of American olllcers. j Transport Sunk. . Turks.
'apt, William W. Low was sent to Wireless reports from Hucharest in.
Santo Domingo with hs company from slt the Germans got cnmparatlvrlv
the marine batraiks in Philadelphia. , little booty at Coiistanza. as its Inevlta'
lle was a native of New llamp-diire hie fall was foiescen. Hut the Turkish
unpointed to the Marine Clips fiom ' olllclal statement iidales that one of the
Cuunei ticut Hi IM'K ami was 47 )ears i Tuiklsli subiimi .ncs 'ank a 3,000 ton
old. Otllcets at Matlne Corps head- tyuispoit off tho Rumanian coast and
quarters to-night weie unable to Identify I sonic sailing ships which were bound for
tile name Atwood, ' Coiistan.a w It It piiis,ins,'' which would
se.-m lo Indicate that up to within a few
A revolt occurred in the Dominican d.i t'ie Rumanians and Russians wei
army several weeks ago, but American hopeful of holding the gatewav through
marines and bluejackets soon had con- which the Czar had poured sloies and
tint of the situation, They were i ren-i troops for the uld of Ills weaker nllv,
foiced with Anicrlcnn troops fiom Port The Guinaii nlllclal statement also tells
nu Prince. Ilaytl, of the cnptilie ot considerable booty. It
The available nnvnl lit-ts mtke no rends;
mention of Opt. Atwood, who is te- "The enemy is yielding In confusion
ported as having been killed. Capt, , before our right wing. The pursuing
William W Low was attached to the cavalry of the (Teutonic) allies has
l lrst lliigndr of marine, stationed re-
rently at the Port an Prince,
Lieut. Victor 1. Monlson Is listed as
attached to the First Hrlgade of mat mes.
BASEBALL AS SANITY SIGN.
Worrs
Ilnrlui'r
ilvilnee lilrn
In
Will Contest.
Uiss of inteiert In the score of the
ni.iMts h-.iii nut forwaiil v.ilpi-rtnv 1...
fore Suirogate Cohalan by Charles P, ' orccd to permit German troops to
Doclgcr as an Indication of a decrease ' 'nter Rumania at Predoal. the Ruma
of mental alertness on the part of his i nlam a.re M1". baUI'nR leiccly In the
fathei-In-law, Krncst G. Woerz, the I mountains, and along the whole Oltuz
brewer. Just before his death. Doelger ' front asum"l tne offensive. The otllcial
seelinii to overthrow the brewer's ' l,me"t from Bucharest says of the
last will. In which he left only J5.000 "ghtlng In tho 1 raiisylvanlau ,p3:
each to Dodger's children, on the ground I , A, X r,a,n. ca thcr'! K B mlnor "p
that Illness had made Wocrz mentally ,lon ,ln " !lch wc .,onl: on' machine gun.
Im ompcient.
Katheilne Haas, a servant In the
Woer. household, said that until two
weeks before Wocrz died he asked her
every da). "Who won the game?"
Shoitly before his will was executed,
however, she said, he censed to iMiulru
for the score. He also stopped her fiom
it tiding the newspapers to him, saying
Hint he didn't know "whether It was
iimmlng or night."
Tlie case continues to-day
SHIP COMPANIES MERGED.
nchor mill Donaldson l.lnrs Now
I inter Our Miiiinuriiicnt .
The local office of the Anchor Linn
received a despatch from Glasgow- yes -
teidiiy announcing the fusion of the.
i Donaldson mid Anchor lines In the pas-
"'l,Ktr H"a cargo irauo oeiwecn uias-
gnw- and Canada,
The combined company will bo called
the Aiichor-DonahlHon Line. Sir Alfred
llooth will Im chairman of the board of
directors. The service will start at once
with the steamships Letltla, Cassandra,
Athenla anr) Saturnla,
TEUTONS DRIVE
RUMANIANARMY
BACK ft MILES
Capture of (5,700 Prisoners
by Von Mnckuiisun Is
Announced.
MEDJIDlfi FALLS
BEFOBE INVADERS
German Commander Tight
ens Grip on Bailroad Line
to the Sea. ,
TURKS SAY THEY
SANK TRANSPORT
Battle Raging Fiercely in
Mountains and on Whole
Oituz Front.
I.O.VDON-, (Vt. 24. Field Marshal von
Mfickensen's nrmy of Bulgarians,
Turks and Gcrinnna lias tightened Its
rrlp on the railroad which links Ru-
mania to the ien. From the Danube
j lo Constnnr.a, Rttmnnln's only Impor-
iiuii. srapon, mo line la In control of
tho German commnnder.
He docs not hold the entire stretch
of track. Hut he followed his capture
of the port yesterday by tnklwr
MedJIdle to-day nnd by capturing
Rashovn, which la not on the rallrond.
but Is on the Danube not far south
west or Ccrnnvod.i, where the line
croRsfH that strenm on the only Inrldgo
which spans It. So tho line no longer
Is useful to the defenders of Dohrudja.
Furthermore, his troops on his ex
treme right aro pursuing the ictreating
llusslans nnd Rumanians, who have,
fallen back sixteen miles from Coti
stanxa,.to Tiara Murat, which Is north
west of tho port Capture of 6,700 Ru
manian prisoners Is announced.
nasal
Admit Captur.
Nor nre the Rumanians faring much
better In the Trunsylvanlan Alps. They
are offerlnir ninrn fttui,i-n
fh.r. ft u t... 1.... ........... ....
oennan troops continue to Zvc slow y
nounced to-day the capture of iVedeal.
i stanza unii .tieiljldlc, saying
l nuer ptrnHuie or the enemy our
troops and tho Rumanians retired tn tho
heights ninth of Constanza and MedJjdle,
at the same time leslstlng the enemy's
...... , ttver ii, .wuiie n.ie oeen oc-
i copied by the tneni)
The Rumanian statement adds, "Our
left wing has been obliged i i,.nr- to.
i ""nl Tzaia Muiat."
i cached the district of Tzata Muiat (six-
tei n miles northwest of Constants).
MedJIdle and Itashuva wcro captured
after violent fighting. The total booty.
j mciiiair.g mat repotted on uctooor 21,
l 7.1 olllcers, H.603 men, una flag, 52
machine guns, 12 cannon and one mlno
t thrower The losses of the Rumanians
and the Russian reenforcements hastily
sent In are heav "
Mill Flubtliist Fiercely.
In the valley of the Iliizeu there was ar
tillery righting. At Table Hulzl calm
reigns. At Hratocca and Picdehis tho
nrtlllery fighting has become less violent,
."The enemy launched throe attacks at
Prcdeal, righting continues along tho
bolder at this locality. In tho reglou of
Dingoslavie tho enemy attes.ked vio
lently. Our troops .ue maintaining their
position.
"In the valley nf the Alt we,, attacked
and tepiilsed the enemy on the left bank
of the river. Ill (ho .Mill valley thero
i were violent enemy attacks which made
I slight progress. A
I "At Tulghcs nifll lllcaz nnd In the
Trotus valley the situation Is unchanged,
, In the I'zul valley the enemy was driven
westward. The fighting continues with
1 violence.
J "At Oltux we attacked on the whole
, front. We havo captured ten olllcers,
302 men and ten machine guns,"
HEAVY BLOW SEEN.
(irrman Military Crlltr Comments
ua Capture of t'onstnnsa.
Bkiilin, Oct, 24. (Uy wireless). The
ConKaurd on ffseend Pas.
