NIGHT
EXTRA
)L.ni.-NO. 30
ictmunn
1FINANCIAL EDITION
.xTId.
yi :b
, .tp
v
mrtrner
NS
iRMANS TAKE CERNAVODA
AND VULCAN PASS IN DOUBLE
DRIVE. AGAINST BUCHAREST
ickensen and Falkenhayn Win New
Victories in Powerful Offensive
'Rumanians Abandom Dobrudja
and Jb'iee Across Danube
V
crich Crush German Attempts to Regain Verdun
Ground lioia uouaumont and Meuse Positions
on Four-Mile Front Teutons Rush Re
enforcements From Somme
Field Marshals Mackcnscn and Falkenhayn are carrying out tho plans of
A warsnai von iiinucnmirg lor tne elimination of Rumania from tho war
i dock-liko precision. What may bo called the second phase in tho Invasion
Mjwanla by the Gtrman-Bulgar-Turkish forces opcratinj in the Dobrudja
been conciuuea wnn ino capture oi Cernavoda, officially announced by
Hn, Bucharest and Pctrograd today.
The capture of Ccrnavoda opens the road to Bucharest, capital of Rumania,
the lorces or tieia Marshal von Mackcnscn succeed in crossing the
It Is here where Mackensen now faces his most difficult problem.
The position of the Rumanians appears to be perilous, in view of tho cap
Bf Vulcan Pass, in Transylvania, by Falkenhayn, announced by the German
rr Office. Tho Germans aro now in a position to begin a drive on Bucharest
MB both east and west and tho Rumanians, fighting between these two
ast, are obliged to resist tho onslaughts of two powerful armies commanded
r Jwo of the most able Teuton strategists. In addition, according" to a Bucha
st admission, the Rumnnians have been forced to give ground in tho rccion
f 6polung and Predeal before the advance of Falkenhayn's troops.
The cntiro territory between tho Black Sea and tho Danubo is now in
u hands. Tho Russo-Rumanians havo abandoned tho Tasavla Lake posl
4, north, of Constanra, and are retiring northward, apparently with tho pur-
i of crossing tho Danube by a roundabout movement and joining .the main
,of the Rumaninns, which have probably retreated across the river from
aroda for the defenso of Bucharest.
h Two violent German counter-nttacks were delivered last night and this
KBing against the positions on the Haudromont-Damloup line northeast of
ion, won by the French In yesterday's great assault.
Both attacks failed, tho French maintaining all their positions, Paris of-
Hy, announced today. The French spent the night cleaning up Fort Douau-
x, captured from tho Germans yesterday.
Among the 3500 prisoners is the German commander of Fort Douaumont.
Tho great blow struck by General Nivello against the Germans at Verdun
knot onlyl-cmoved tho menace to Verdun contained in tho occupation of the
bsdromont-Darnloup line by the Crow?i Prince, but the German plan for a
rtca counter-attacK on xno somme. ueavy uerman re-enforcements, inr
led for service on the Somme, aro being rushed to Verdun, to stem the
ace, of the French., In addition, the new French offensive ' has made'
inuie onager w wie ueruiBuo ui wiummwioK any troops irom we west
fprvservico in tho Dobrudja, Transylvania or Galicia. v
IANIANS IN PERILOUS
HON AS FOES ADVANCE
AtONG TWO MAIN FRONTS
, BERLIN, Oct. 25.
al announcement was made this af-
of the capture of Cernavoda in
. by the army under Field Marshal
Mackensen. The capture of this vitally
at bridgehead position was preceded
f.Ttelent fighting;.
al hours before the official an-
nent was made dispatches received
l reported the fall of Cernavoda.
her Important victory has been
by the Austro-German troops un-
Seneral von Falkenhayn at Vulcan
i on the northern boundary of Rumania.
Is now in the hands of the Aua-
nans. it gives the Teutons an-
gateway for the invasion of central
ala from the north.
apture of Cernavoda Is regarded as
rtljr more importance thanhe capture
! seaport of Constanta three days ago.
i believed that considerable Russian
: Rumanian troops have been trapped
t et the Danube In Dobrudja and are In
' perilous position.
10GRAD ADMITS LOSS
' CERNAVODA AND RETREAT
OF FORCES NORTHWARD
PETROORAD, Oct. 28.
Rumanian forces have abandoned
- positions at Cernavoda, the western
Hft the railway leading into old Ru-
under Mackensen's attacks, It was
11 admitted today. The Taeavla
i peeltlona have also been surrendered
enemy, whose heavy attacks con-
IP. en' the whole Dobrudja front The
umanlans, resisting Mackenaen's
. are rehiring northward.
Of Cernavoda, admitted by the
l War Office, la a more serious blow
iHumanlans from the military stand-
. thn the fall of Constanza. It oneni
lea way for a drive on Bucharest from
, while Falkenhayn's Austro-Ger-
i"TJ"e are aavancmg from the west
weaiea Kusso-Humanlan armies,
Jjorjhward from the railway, are In
ixwiuon, me Russian optciai
nt Indicate. There- are no bridges
CMibeed m Pan Tamr, Chuu Tbre
THEWgATHEfe
:T FORECAST
Philadtlphi and vfctwtty 7-
w orvawrnvvs iiw njtvrHQOH ana
tTtomitut fHHrollv fair; warMtr
- fw vni9Tiy wnt.tr, f
LKMOTM Of MTf
S Sit &.BI.fliAB lufl 1AJA . m
i). T .n. Baa "--'-- -'
WaK surtax TUNC OMANSaW
OlUilfklll USMkHlMI
""7 i irw t
r TT " AT.HACW ajW
:j- LL 111
WT AW 90VVTD
rA!3...N"' '. '
tUdilMld
f"f ? " no
V Ml
r lata iUna of Mok
oi wuoinclun. l u
a
attat
WOMEN'S FEDERATION,
SILENT FOR YEARS,, TO
OPEN BALLOT DEBATE
State Organization, After Fight,
Take? First Step in Permit
ting Partisan Topics
in Discussions
CHANGE IN CONSTITUTION
Woman suffrage, alwaya taboo in the
dtscuaalons of the State Federation of Penn
sylvania "Women, was let Into that organiza
tion today. The wall which has kept It out
alnce the federation was organized was
battered down by parliamentarians among
the suffragist members, while anti-suffrage
members, their forces small, made a heroic
fight during all the morning session to
preserve the citadel.
So It happens that "the first order of
busloeaa tomorrow morning" will be the
Kconslderatlon of a resolution which rails
for the expunging of a clause In the fed
eration's constitution which had barred
suffrage rights from 'the dlecuelons In
the conventions. That tne rule will he
stricken out waa foretold In the near
unanimous all ezcert one vote of the
1000 women for the "conalderatlon of the
motion."
The arguments preceding the vote on
the motion were pivoted on a resolution
to amend the constitution and "a .technical
error" made by the, secretarial department
of the federation In sending out notloea
to members that changes were to be made
in the bylaws." The antl-auffraglsts held
that these notices stating "In tha bylaws"
made It Illegal to attempt to make changes
In the conatltutlonj"
The clause about which the battle waa
Cenllaaed ea Fate Fear, Celama Fit
GERMANS MAKE 500 AIR
RAIDS IN SINGLE NIGHT
Sixteen Allied Aeroplane Shot
Down, Berlin Tteports 209
Battlee Aloft
BHRLIN, Oet. 25. Two hundred and.nlne
air flghta toek piaee over the Semme, front
on OeUber , aeaordlng -to a .atatamet
iMuad threufffe the smloiaa' Overseas
yd Agenoy t4ay, Persia" aaawlanes
ma4 more than W6 raMs, K was aaM.
It (a eertaln that aicieeft AlMe4 aeroplanea
we're dW awl It la sle4 that" the
actual Mwufeer Ja twaMy-two, the sUt
raw,t Hya. Weveit of theM waehlnes e
In yaisisalnn of tha Oemaaa. ' -
Oernuu) ataman Haw' Jw wrh AUU4
tniiiti - anMiiaw aaatihMi inaa JU town
Deo. tM IMDl a4 VpafM satHata-
On ta bssM af Osiakar II 04a air
Mesia snmm4 tea of ai(aiaarva a th
rifcar aaallMis at UMMrua. aaaar' AaaleaM
m4 ICaaMsWtar, Mcnst amnmaWUa aeiwae
al QattMt. surawHMva. is M ft
PMrari ana ua vm
PniliADEIjPIILA, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 191G
CorimoiiT, 101S, at ina Pcauo Ltmta Cowrj.tr.
NIGHT
EXTRA.
PRICE ONJB CENT
POLITICIAN OF NEW TYPE
BBisBBBBBBBBBBBLIisBBBBHLBBMHBBBB
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBiaiaiaiaiaiaiaiaiaiaiaK jBmHH ,-. S BPinrKN
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBaViaiiisiaiaiaiaiaiaiaB alaV'siBBBBBBBKiaiaB' " iaiaiaiaiaiaH 'fHt'SJtiWiBJ
i; M If "I ' I
aaaaaaaai.i.H''' V-" 'Bi.aali.iWHSN J M IIWV W AV jK" LM
L''' .''ajKA?. . VWi? - aaTsBBBBBaW'C"f'Vi - tj
HMHHtBattBHiiiiaiaiaiaH fv ac liaiaHasTsBaaali laflMiflH
sbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbIHbbbbbbbbbbbbbbB- J bbbbbbbbbbbbbbH "sffHy
SrflBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBaiH sVsBilililB SBS
ftlHtisssilBlililililHammillVsflililHaBB. t isisRaS
iaHi9saMaBiaiaiaiaiaiaVHBaLjaliBsZiaiaiaiaH JiaiaiaHHBI
BBBBBHaaPiaiaiaiaiaiaiaaBBB aaaBiBaYlBTBBBBBBBBBBBBm iaiaiHsaaBtl
BBBBaHKilHslisilHiiHsllftftaBBBBBt'-'?sliliaB SililBlH
esi -. 'BaBsBsH :-' vvin
aHB":':JHagMSr "
sbbbbH ' 'i'f'VJplll!
.bbIbIHE ifcgilM 'T H I f
AhBBI x .. WSfI'M
PVsaaaaaaaaaB' '-:: felfe
IsBYbIbIbbbVbIbbBbmM
:v 4BBBBBBr4
bLK
.. Ik
&""-
-,-' " ., -i.-i . i-bw or io umn i'Dw rural,
Mrs. , Laura Aewton :ls hero to boost for tho ," Women's jauriica,,
- V - . Special," which i coming hero. nexti-Weelf.w"r' ' V " v
NERVE PLANTING
MAY SAVE PLAGUE'
VICTIMS' LIMBS
Surgeons at Clinical Con
gress Hear of Boon for
Infantile Paralysis
WRIGGLY DANCES PRAISED
Crystallized Opinions
' of Visiting Surgeons
FOUR points brought out in third
session of seventh annual meeting
of Clinical Congress of Surgeons:
1"Wiggly" modern dances
help digesion and general
health, "joggling" tho spleen, stimu
lating circulatory and cerebral sys
tems and strengthening muscles.
2 But from a moral stand-
point, tho effect of "wiggly"
dances is questionable.
3 Operations would be re
e duced ninety-nine per cent
and cancer and tuberculosis yrould
be checked If peoplo underwent
periodic physical examinations, tak
ing as much care of body as of
automobiles, furnaces and business.
4 Nerve implantation may
prove panacea for paralysis
sufferers.
A remarkable .demonstration In nerve
Implantation, which 'surceohs say may re
sult Ih restoring to usefulneaa paralysed,
ltmba of thousands of infantile paralysis
victims, was given today by Or. A. B. QUI
at the University of Pennsylvania medical
cchool before a lars;e lathering; of visitors
at tha Clinical Congress of Surgeons con
vening here.
Doctor QUI used as his subjects dogs, rab.
blta and guinea pigs' suffering from paraly
sis of the lags. He Implanted hundred of
new nerves Into the paralysed muscle.
These nerves, ha told the surgeons as
sembled, vrodld soon take root in tha mua,
ola tissue' and eenneet with the general
nervous system, restoring feeling and ani
mation to the , paralysed parts., lie , ex
hibited several-animals'' upon whleh nerve
implantation' teats Vere performed some
time ago. ' In all eases feeling and anlma-'
tlen had been restored.
Wille the,nve plantation Mperlmants
have net yet ben 'performed upon human
beings, .Doctor QUI said, that tha experiment
affeired. great, hope to'pareetta who have par
atrsed' sMMaen. . He. also stated, that' the"
mmiHs attained asMMte HWe of an-
bWsssilI suriiTi m bMi IbI t Inn La --j---
erlajpBjPai eaaais tisvewtasaarenn "i awsfBsssjBsp
"Wtsjty"" modern 'e, twsawdlag the
ejr'trot, htehaUoa, oae-atep and "watkiag
tha dag, reoelvwt a oompllweatary t4 ea
Uta aaKHiMer from Dr. J, A. Koita, of Wt
IsntU. Ark., an abdocnltal expect, wtw. je
oasreat 'that the health of thousands of
f taaaad ea r e Iwa. fWawa two
HUGHESTRAN, AGENT,
REAL WOMAN'S LEADER,
HERE TO PLAN APPEAL
Politicians of a New Typo, Work
ing for Good of Cause Only,
, to Visit City No
vember 2
MEETS FOE'S ARGUMENT
By M'LISS
A new type of politician came to Phil
adelphia today a politician who believes
In playing the game direct, whose po
litical .creed consists wholly and only of
n profound belief In the candidate she Is
supporting and who asks no other reward
for the months of service she haa devoted
to him than that of seeing him elected.
Mrs. Laura A. Newton, who has been
called the John the Daptlst of the woman's
campaign train for Hughes because she Is
the' voice that goes on ahead crying In the
wilderness sometimes a wilderness of
Democratlo calamity howlers, as In the case
of her recent southern tour stopped In this
city Ipng enough today to make arrange
ments 'for tha reception of the widely
heralded train that will bring here the
feminine Hughes orators on the night of
November 2,
nEAIi POLITICIAN
She Js a singularly open-faced, Ideallstlo
politician ;the kind to make one forget that
politics' other name la "dirty work." Aa
you listen to her expound reason after rea
son for the women of the country rising
"aa one man" to Insure the election of
Charles Evans Hughes; aa you hear her
flay the campaign tactics of the Democratlo
preaa In 'one breath and .the "mollycoddle"
articles of Charles W. Eliot In 'another,' fo
say nothing of .the "pussy-footing perform
ances" of Henry Ford, you feel that here,
Indeed, Is 'an example of the woman In pol
itics who haa 'come not only to stay but
to make her' way.
"The women on the Hughes train," ahe
said emphatically, emphasizing .her words
with a tense little gesture and a snap of
her brown. eyes, "are politicians; they are
traveling 'In the Interest of Hughes's elec
tion ; not In the Interest of suffrage or for
'their 'own aggrandizement.
"BILLIONAinB TRAIN"
'The Hughes .special haa been called the
'JUIIIIpnIr Train I auapeet the Demo
eratlc ," Is responsible for 'this phrase,
as It, Is r the many aoeounts of fraeaaecj
and'unwelcJtBe receptions that have been
resorted. untruthfully throughout the (Un
wary. "Women ( like Dr. Katharine Bacaeat
Davie, Mary Antln, Mrs. Nelson O'aHvaugh
jmatr ana1 Miss Kranoea Kellor expeat no
'perianal vain from this trip. They are
worthy aad thlaklBg women women who
yatnfr ad, .Hughe, when ha was '(iey enter al
New York who know that he waa re span
ifaW far efclld labor aad workmen's oent-
panaauosi legatiawn iaat uae beam oopled
Vf Many other States. They knew that
durbar tha gubernatorial taraaa ha put
thraaajh more humaultarian UartalaUcn )a
e rata W, OsJaaaa to
QUICK NEWS
GIVES $450,000 TO METHODISTS '
CHICAGO, Oct. 535. The largest ' contribution for uenovolcnt
purposes over received by tho Mcthodist.Eplscopnl Church Is $430,000
from tho estate of Mrs. Eilcn S. James,, of NcW York, it was made
known hero today. She made other largo gifts durfng her lifetime
and lu her will. " . .
SIX KILLED WHEN INTEfcURBAN CAR HITS AUTO
. . ., .'' - -
SOUTH SEND, Ind.,fOct. 25. She persons, were killed when their
automobile was hit by an Jntcrurbari car six miles north of the 'city
today. " - - : ' X? -
n t --
REPORTS OF WOUND TO FALKENHAYN DENIED
. .v ; .
BERLIN, Oct. 25. Bocout reports that General von Talkenhnyn
was woundod In fighting- lu" Transylvania' were denied today In aa
nulhorltative statement In tho NoHl? German Gajiette.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS ;
- . f
First Laurel race2-ycar-olds colts( and geldings, 0 furlongs
Olyng, IU',m3. Butwpll,.?l7.10, ?O.Jio',l93,.do;"wpn;'l.ottcry, 114, E.
Ambrose, $3.(30, .$26, 'scco,iul;Denvcr:. Kill,'. 114, F.-Keogli, $3.00,
third. Time, l!l3 4-5. "'.')'
Second Laurel race, steeplechase, uelllng, 4-yoar-olds and up,
about 2 miles Dixon' Park, 143,;illJ''WiiilamB,90;6b,i?3.30J $2.80,
won; New Haveu;(.140j" H.,Crawfor4,)$320,:,$2;70, 'socon'djYdlo Mich
ash 135,' W. Allon', $3.60,' third Tlmc7'i3.4.7 85.
BRITISH STRIKE
TO KILL CITTS
NEW SHIP LINE
Seek the Business
Opened WitlT South
American Ports
AGENTS PLEADING
FOR THE BUSINESS
Offer Cut Rates and Other
Inducements to Obtain
Freights
PLAN RESENTED HERB
WHEAT LEAPS 6 CENTS; HIGHEST SINCE CIVIL WAR
CHICAGO, Oct 25, Wheat climbed toward the predicted $2 mark today. De
cember wheat Jumped 6tf' cents to I1.8BH, passing by H of a cent tho high mark
set during tho famous, Letter corner In 1898. Today's price Is the highest since the
Civil wni Fortunes were being made, while, brokers bid wildly for grain In a tur
moil of nolso and activity such as has been seen only during some of the1 historic
corners. One dealer holds a. million bushels bought at J1.06. Gralnmen report that
Armour 4 Co. and "Wheat King'" Jim Patten Were very heavy holders. Heavy de
mand from millers and exporters, which has already caused some select grades of
cash wheat to soil for $2, seemed to craze 'the market. It was almost Impossible to
,buyelther December or May wheat, except-ln small quantities and &tBtxrtllnsr
aavances.
TWO COLLIERIES IDLE, BECAUSE OF STRIKE
IOTTSVlLLI3, Pa., Oct. 2C Two collieries involving 2200 mine workers are
Idle, duo to striken. They aro the Dark Water colliery of the Dark Water Coal Com
pany, nt St. Clair, and the North Franklin colliery, of tho Philadelphia and Reading
Coal and Iron Company, at Hhamokln. The strikes have been reported to the Con
ciliation Hoard.
U-BOATS ENGAGE RUSSIAN PATROLS AMID ARCTIC FLOES
COPENHAGEN, Oct. 25. A naval battle between German submarines and
armed Hussion patrol boats amid the Ice floes of the Arctla Sea Is reported In a
dispatch to the Morgenbladet today, The submarines were watching for ships
carrying Russian war supplies when attacked by the patrol boats and driven off.
PENNSYLVANIANS TO- TAKE WEST POINT EXAMS
WASHINGTON, Oct. 2C. Announcement waa mode by the War Department
today that the following Philadelphia candidates for tho United States' Military
Academy at West Point have been designated to take tho entrance examinations' In
March: Christopher Hlldebrand, 1711 Snyder avenue; Frank C, Brady, first alternate,
1952 South Twenty-third street; Frank C. Graham, second alternate, Twenty-sixth
and Federal streets, and Wharton G, Ingram, Third street and Qlrard avenue. .
CANADIAN PACIFIC STRIKE DANGER AVERTED
OTTAWA, Ont., Oct. 25. Mlnlater of Labor T. W. Crothers received a telegram
at noon today announcing that all danger of a strike on the Canadian Pacific, lines
had been averted and an agreement between the Canadian Pacific and Its employes
soon would be signed.
RUUSSIANS LOSE 1,797,522 SINCE JUNE 1, BERLIN SAYS
BERLIN, Oct. 25. The Russians have lost 1,797,522 men In killed, wounded and
captured since tho Gallclan offensive began June 1, the Semiofficial News Agency
declared today, quoting' the New Central Identifying office as authority. Among
these wero 85,981 officers, two generals, six colonels of brigades, eight colonels and
lieutenant colonels, regimental commanders. The greatest number of casualties
was among the Siberians,
ARGENTINE DROUGHT BOOSTS WHEAT PRICES
BUENOS AIRES, Oct. 25. Drought, that threatens severe damage to the Argen
tine wheat crops has boosted wheat prices out of sight and has killed all chances
that the United States may obtain relief from Increasing flour prices from Argen
tine shipments. Wheat Is selling at fifteen pesos per hundred kilos, a new record
on the Buenos Aires market. Experts say a prolongation of the drought for a fort
night will destroy three-fourths of the crop. Thousands of cattle ore dying for
lack of fodder.
Chamber of Commerce Urges
Exporters to Stand by and
Support Project
Cut-throat actios ore being Used by Brit
ish shipping Interests In a war to Injure tha r
success of a Una of steamships between
South American porta and Philadelphia,
Victory for these tactics aeemed certain
thla morning when it waa announced by the
Chamber of Commerce that tho new line
would have to ba abandoned on January 1
If the Philadelphia manufacturers, shippers
and exporters, did not support the vessels.
Tha line began operations a week ago
under auspicious circumstances.
It waa brought to tha attention of the
Eveniko LrDosn thla afternoon by tha
Chamber of Commerce that British shipping
interests, which have held 'a monopoly on'
South .American trade, have carefully
ataged an attack for the annihilation of the
new line which was brought to Fhlladel-i
phla by the Chamber.
OLD TACTICS IN USE
According to all Information assembled
by the Chamber, all ot tho known old tao
tlca for tha destruction of a competitor
have been dragged from musty closets and
polished up for use In an 'effort to put the
'new Philadelphia trade expansion 'project'
out bf business.
No fewer than fourteen, agents ot British k
ahlpplng lines, whsssj .wartars iare Ja
New York city, aewdlsgito' tW ""Chamber
Ot Commerce, are. scouring jPWladeiphla,
Pittsburgh. New Castle, SerantWwilkea-JJarroJind-Seadlng
in AJteSort' 'WjwrsiiU.
shippers from using tha. new, line and. thus,
saving from forjy pent fo U.ii jijiiti' in
ordinary tariffs. In addition, It was lairtied,
Wen are, atwprk through bhio.VM!oilgan.
Wisconsin. Indiana, Illinois and'MInnesota
atrlylng to, take" the bustnesswhloh' already
had been contracted for by the line, and'
awing It over Into the old-established
companies.
AUTO FIRM BOTHERED,
"Writing 'f rom South Bend, Ind., one cor
poration which exported seventy-five auto
mobiles on tha steamship Carolyn, which
sailed laat week complained:
We are 'bothered to death by two
stents sent here from New, York, who
are making every concession In an ef
fort to get us to refuse to ship via
Philadelphia, and we have been offered
. virtually our own ratea on month-to-,
month contracts if we will ship by
! New York.
1 QUERY FROM PITTSBURGH
From Pittsburgh came the followlngt
We received a call -today from two
agenta of a steamship Una running out
of New York, who told us that It would
be useless for ua to attempt to ship by
Philadelphia because there are not
proper loading facilities on the docks
to handle our heavy pieces of machin
ery. These men declare that while
Philadelphia haa docks costing several
millions each, they lack hoisting ap
paratus of any kind, and that It Is
not possible" to hoist Into the hold of a
vessel anything that welgha over three
tons. Aa you welt know, the freight
we have for South America la very
bulky, weighing from five to twenty
five tona per package. We are very
anxious to ship through Philadelphia,
and desire to know If it Is, true that
there Is not hoisting apparatus capable
of handling these shipments.
CUT IN FREIGHT RATBfl
Shippers In Philadelphia have had the
rates cut aa much as 1 a ton by Brltl
CanMneed an Fsae Twe, Cetaaa These
ELLIS SHOT HIMSELF
HOURS AFTER WIFE DIED
PHILADELPHIA GIRLS JOIN IN WELLESLEY SPORTS
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Oct. 25. Three hundred girls have signed up for fall
sports at Wellesley College. The Philadelphia athletes and their sports are as
follows: Hockey, Grace E. Wlnga; golf, Reta Oreenwald; track, Marlon Y, Carrlck;
archery, Margaret Nlchold; baseball, Marlon Harbison,
BRITISH MAY CHECK RISE IN FOOD PRICES
LONDON, Oct 25. Replying to a question In the House of Commons, Walter
Runclman, president of the Board' of Trade, sold he might soon ask Parliament t
confer additional powers on the Board of Trade with a,; view to checking any pre
ventable rise in food prices.
COTTON SELLSABOVE TWENTY CENTS A POUND
NEW YORK, Oct. . For the first time slnee the Civil War cotton erosaed
20 cents a pound today. July cotton sold at JO cents, up IS points, soon, after the
Cotton Exchange opened. Gains of 1 to 24 points were made during the Afst It
minutes. May options sold at ,34.01, up 22 points, before 10:W, The oetton ginning
report, shewing a big gain In ginning In the United Mates,, was a bull faetor.
INFANT PARALYSIS. CLAIMS ITS 288TH VICTIM
One new death from infantile paralysis was reported today, makhag a total of
987 oases and ,M, .deatha ln'tMs otty. The lateat vlU was Jiarry Jlwokle, fwr
months 6M, 1ST2 HMraqwuwett street "
. ' " ' 'r " ' ' '
MBTHODISTS SKXie'l,260,W ?OH INDIGENT PRKACH3M
The ealUealon of an additional ll.HfMd from Use Philadelphia area to lanrsaate
the fund for UxUgant and superannuated mlnlater was decided upon, at a specs"
Meeting of the Board of Coaferenoe Clalsqanla of tfc IMhJlaat "finn) Cfcwctj,
at cwsM. m sum nuns iswea si ttoea p,Ht,tW BMtMH
Suicide of Slayer of Spouse Not
Immediate, Inquest Testi
mony Shows T
William HeweH Mils, who killed hte wMo
n their heme, near AntMer or Oateber T
and afterward shot Msasetf.. dU net make
the attempt UfWfl hU evpa )Me wrtH several ;
hours attar the death of Mi'wMi "
Thla Information waa srnusM out taday ,
at tha tnajuest lata Bale's . th has .
Coroner Knight. Mttle M' Y '"' '"
at the Chestnut Xta MlSfe;1 a
lingered ever',a4aee tli a) ajBajsJn-
Coroner uraat ssssjsisass,, eipsa
tows, who InvuXsasJuS sfcjs tsl0, N
the prlaeipal wMsjaas t the. asMMft as
(4 investigate $mwt tfcat Wm. after
sfeeeMftg Me ,wja, raasevssl Maid sjIm '
eMhtng m4Mw returajad'ta tJM reeaa asat
trees geaeral
Ma own
a 1
' .m
eadtaktsM tlaal tla ajSpMSM ajpeai
siee we ei wv
kttUd We wtt.
TMiiiiinar Msm saaatiasT
MNK0 fJSs esa
Wr MaUeeeC tha yee WUtjsji
ot ytourvawa. '
The .Coreaaa'a Jury kreaisjM ta a vsrflst
that Wtsev ejeatk was u to
WWMl ttC
mM tegUMMajaa a
J.tJ
