HARTFORD HERALD
THE
c?
Subscription $1 Per Yca.r, in Advance. "' a. ' "" tf in "" Ltmtwi" " B,tk;' g': r& KeatlV Executed
HARTFORD, KY WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25. 1916.
NO. 43
s
,d TEAR.
SENATOR JAMES
IN GREATSPEEGH
Expounds the Doctrine Of
Democracy.
GOOD WORD RH1BEN JOHNSON
Also Upholds Wilson's Presiden
tial Policies and Acts Of
Democratic Congress.
A LAIUJK CROWD WAS PRESENT
"Behold this nation at peace
millions of tollers and happy homes
with the family circle unbroken.
"When all of the turmoil and tribu
lation of this earth Is over, and
-when we stand In the great white
light of the judgment dawn, there
-will stand Woodrow Wilson with
clean hands and a clear conscience,
and the Master will say unto him:
Blessed are the peacemakers, x for
Ihey shall Inherit the Kingdom of
Heaven.' " Ollle James.
A steady rain fell throughout the
greater portion of Ohio and adjoin
ing counties last Wednesday and
racst of the night and consequently
there -was not as large a crowd at
the speaking of Senator Ollle Jame3
here Thursday as would 'have been
had the weather not been so inclem
ent. There was also a slight confu
sion as to the exact time Mr. James
would begin to talk which was a
little disappointing to some few. peo
ple. 'After Senator James1' date was
given to the local committee, the
State Speakers Program Committee
made a date for him at Loulsvllfo
Thursday night, which necessitated
thp beginning ofhls speaking a full
lialf hour before the time set. In or
der for the Senator to get to Beaver
"Dam nMtfmeV6'-ca't&'-a train Into
Louisville. v
The large court room was pretty
Tvell filled when Senator James be
gan speaking, but by the time, he
-was half through the house was
crowded and many were standing at
the entrance. Senator James was
it,.rwiiif0,i hv Hnn. H. P. Taylor
with a few timely and well chosen j Wilson
temiarks. The Senator's time wasJSCl-Cu
'limited and he spoke only a little
over an lymr.
Senator James said he well re--members
other &ays when he was
liire and the hearty welcome he re
ceived from loyal Ohio county peo
ple. Tho fljat part of his speech was
.devoted to a well deservd eulogy of
Congressman Ben Johnson. He said
Sf the people here knew Mr. Johnson
as he knows him they would know
more perfectly the splendid duty our
Tourth DIstrlcti representative hafcj
performed in Congress. Tho Sena
tor said that of the hundreds of Con
gressmen of his acquaintance, past
and present, Mr. Johnson Is one of
the ablest and best. The record of
Cpngressman Johnson, said the Sen
ator, stands out boldly for Its zeal
and fearlessness In tho cause of the
people. The voters should return
Tilr. Johnsonto Congress by a splen
did majority; said Mr. James, adding
that he" felt personally Interested In
tho success of our very worthy rep
resentative. ,
Senator James then turned his at
tention to the Presidential race and
-pointed out tho wonderful achieve
ments of Woodrow Wilson, assisted
by a Democratic Congress. The
Domocratlc party was formerly ac
cused of being a party of promises,
the working poor. Candidate Hughes
has ever been found contending for
tho Interests of the rich as against
tho welfare of the common people.
While Governor of New York Mr.
Hughes vetoed tho bill that women
school teachers should receive "the
same pay ns men. Mr. Hughes as
Governor also vetoed the two-cent
railroad bill and opposed the In
come Tax.
Col. Roosevelt Is storming around
over the country, said Senator
James, In the Interest of Candidate
Hughes, but tho Rough Rider dare
not attack the Federal Reserve Act
because he was President when the
iiaod nnnln tllrt nnntrV AVPT kflPtt
ui,. ,...... ...u -- -w ---- - J
was sprung by Wall Street Interests.
Under the old system a nation-wide
panic could be sprung overnight, but
now It Is not possible. The Panic
Trust and the Money Trust were an
nihilated by Democratic legislation.
The Republicans now say, "Oh, just
wait till the war is over and pros
perity will fade away." They used
to say "If you ever let the Demo
cratic party get into power we will
have no more prosperity." Time
and events have changed their tune.
For twenty-five year3, said Senator
James, after the war Is over tjhU
country will be selling supplies to
the Old World to make up for the
destruction which this gigantic war
has wrought. The conclusion Is In
evitable. Why should we fear for
the war to close?
Candidate Hughes, said Senator
James, is the great critic and fault
finder. This type of person has ex
isted since history began. Anybody
can criticise and find fault with an
other's actions or policy. Mr.
Hughes has no constructive argu
ment to offer. Ho does not (he dare
Hot) declare that if elected Presi
dent he will work to have repealed
the great quantity of beneficial leg
islation enacted by; s" the Democrats.
Here Senator James explained tho
Rural Credlts"Act, by which, farmers
are rlaced on an equality with big
moneyed mfn and can borrow mon
ey on long term and a low rate of
interest, liquidating the debt while
paying the interest.
The eight-hour-day decision of
President ' AVIlson, said Senator
James, was not' a "surrender to
force" hut a surrender to reason.
President Wilson's war policy has
kept us at peace with honor. wKlc.
prosperity is folt all over the laud.
Pecple criticised Prcldent Lincoln
as they have criticised President
What th first Lincoln of
did In Mexico, the second
I.LIncoln (Wilson) Is doing now
PARTY LEAE ERS
ARE
OPIISTIC
Men On .Stump Sure Of
Wilson's Victory.
GLOWING REPORTS ARE SENT
To" Summer White House By
Alen In the Field In Va
rious 'Sections.
FARMER IS EQUAL
OF
MONEYED
MAN
Under Operation Of the
Reserve Law.
WILSON LANDSLIDE PREDICTED
MONEY HOARDING IS STOPPED
And Cornering Of Cash For Spec
ulation Or Gambling Is
Impossible.
of lime nnd eight ounces of water.
This will prevent a hydrogen tank
from freezing, he snys, nnd there
fore will provide air for the aviator.
On calm days, he admits, the
plane would have to bo shot Into
the nlr with a catapult. Once !n
flight, however, he claims that ho
can stay Intho air indefinitely.
CENTRAL CI TV
WORKING-
MINKS
-trouble ovr.i;
RECORD
TOBACCO
n
CROP
IS
RAISED
It Exceeds Any Previous
Year's Production
EXPLAINS NEW FEDERAL LAW
Washington, Ocf. 23. A commun
ication sent to Washington corres
pondents to-day from Ashbury Park,
X. J., by R. W. Woolley, a former
Kontucklnn nnd dlractnr nf liulilln-
Ity of the Democratic National Com
mitteo, gives a symposium of vhnvs
as to the progress of the campaign
sent In by prominent Democrats who
are out speaking In various parts of
the country. Summing up theae ex
pressions the statement says:
"Evidences of a Democratic land
slide are appearing in the tremen
dous political correspondence which
lias inundated the officials uit the ex
ecutive offices of the summer White
House In Asbury Park In the past
three weeks. Tiie great drive for
ward by the Democratic phnlanx un
der the bald leadership of President
.Indianapolis, Ind., Oct. 21. John
Skelton Williams, Controller of the
Currency, speaking here before the
Farmers' National Congress, de
scribed the. relation of the Federal
Reserve Law to the farmer and clos
ed with a personal statement
brought out by President Wilson's
recent allusion to attacks on the
Controller.
"I see that our President, in an
address at Shadow Lawn," said the
Controller, "tells the country that
the bankers, or certain hankers, or
some special Interests, are after my
oITelal scalp because I, as the Con
troller of the Currency, have en
forced the law. This is no surprise
to me."
Mr. Williams said tho new Fed
eral Reserve Law "will forbid the
The Central City Argus smyr
Tho' controversy between 1'3 Cen
tral Coal & Iron Company and the
United MIno Workers of America
was adjusted Tuesday night when
an agreement satisfactory to both
oner.Uo'-s and employees vn reach
ed and this agreement signed Hv rep
resentatives of the parMrrj directly
concerned.
By the terms of the agreement
members of tho V. M. W. of A. will
return to their working places In the
mine under the same conditions as '
eMsted before tiie burning 01 tne
BY FULIY II MILLION POUNDS
Kentuck's Yield Good In Quan
tity and Quality Few
States Suffer.
IIUHLKV CROP IS EXTRA KINK
Washington, Oct. 21. The larg
est tobacco crop In the history of
America Is forecast by the Depart
ment of Agriculture In a detailed
:iscfl r" Z ?Tn 'statement just Issued. The depart-
tipple of the C. C. & I. Co. on the!
itii I... ..,i...l (i,.iUni ni Urnnnlnir frnm llsintr for their OWE
11 licutl I1U& wullllu lll'J luiiuimi m,n- o''r o - .-
ct so far past the position It occupied
at the beginning of this period that
the political observers reporting to
the President and his advisers are
morning of August Ctli
For several weeks work at the
mine has been carried on by mem
bers of a recently created bods
known as tho "Southern Miners As
sociation," an organization horn In
Central city and numbering nmonr
its membershli) some half dozen o
nient says:
"The exceptionally large crop of
tobacco in prospect in September
has maintained Its favorable aspect
although a. decrease in estimated
yield of 20,495,000 pounds Is shown.
The present forecast Is for a cro;
nf 1 n" (177 finn nnnmlg wlilrli u
w. .,a.uv,'..,..wv 'tu..uw, ....-..
.. .. 1- .. ....... 1... 1 AA aaa nrui
more fonuiT recognised nromwrt; of -. .-. . ... .
the I'M W of A but who had dls- 10000000
avowni further allcg-amv to this or- than the avers-
ganlzation, together with a score or Qf Hye u
more of men Picked up from t!m ceeds ,Mt ,g b 143000.
to lime acre ami inure.
By the agreement reached be
tween the operators and officials of
the United Mine Worker? of Amerl
now convinced victory is a certainty
"While optimism Is not lacking In
the reports from the Cast, It Is the
data from the West upon which the
talk of a landslide is bassd."
Among the leaders quoted is Sen
ator Jame?, of Kentucky, who, the
announcement says, "has made a
great many speeches In the West
and has h.-'l a splendid opportunity
to observe conditions."
Senator James wired to Secretary
Tumulty as follows :
" "Have been speaking through the
West. N'pver saw anything like the
tide to Wll'-on. He is a certain 'win
ner. I believe Ohio will give Him
100,000 majority. Kansas, Iowa,
Nebraska, Illinois and Indiana are
on fire with Wilson enthusiasm.
n-ocMant iviiann kpIMpiI the Lu'I- Huches is defeated; Wilson a cer-
tania affair, raid Senator James, tainty."
without widnwlntr a slnclo American ! Congr-nman Henry T. Ralney.
advantage the necessities of their ";" ' - ' " ,"" " w
neighbors," and that It puts the. --. '" " ' ""J,
farmer on the same plane as t?w , ""r "" - l" " ' "l
, , A. who have been working at the
business man. , ,..,.,. 4 .,
"The farmer," he said, "is enab-,"" du f tho tent, -v.111.
led to borrow according to his Indus- Pon Petition, be reins ated as mem
try and commercial standing be-, bers of the order while the o her.
cause his banks know how and ;1a- admission to the union
' .h .,.,,-, t. win nut I tnrougn me regular ruanuui.
.where to get the moijey. It win not a ,
Ue po?sii)io to uuve uie mu.j D"'-1 inoi: CALLS WORKERS
niv inckpii iii the frroat centers for
speculation or gambling purpose?,;
v.hlle the real producers and lcglti-j
mate productive commerce are
pinched or denied, perhaps just at
the time of their imost Important,
need." '
"Cries of back to th farm." he.
said, "are futile, without promise of
comfort and happiness and prospect.
Put money, or opportunity to
TO WILSON'S SUPPORT
000 pounds.
i "The crop in Now England was
harvested before September and no
change is reported. In New York
the crop Improved wonderfully, nam
ing a good growth and shov.'!nr
more gum In the leaves. It was n'l
Harvested safely except about fify
acres caught by the frost of Septem
ber 30. In Pennsylvania a "na'l
decline In condition 'is shown, duo i
dry weather and some hail danr.ge.
The late crop In Maryland matured
finely and la curing nicely. In Vir
ginia the yield Is proving somewhat
lighter than was expected, but t'to
quality Is repotted good. In Nort:
Carolina and South Carolina tho
crop is reported very slightly lower
Washington, Oct. 21. Organized
labor's first official appeal to its
..niiilmf1ilii in IiMt.tl f nf 'Prncf .Inn t
Wilson's re-election was made public than last month, probably roprescnt-
wifc or orphaning a single AmerlcTJ
child. President Wilson In accused
of being a great "note writer." He
Is the best the country ever saw.
He sent firm yet diplomatic notes to
Germany Instead of the priceless
lives of thousands of brave Ameri
can boys. Which Is the best policy?
President Wilson is a patriot of clear
conscience and bravo and courageous
iccord. He has had many trials, yet
He comes out with Honor unblem
ished. This Is only a brief synopsis of
Senator James splendid address. At
times he fired (lie big audience with
his eloquence and applause was
hearty and frequent. There were
many ladies and young people pres
ent and the hundreds of earnest
faces and bright eyes turned to
ward tho speaker showed that tin
crowd drank, In and enjoyed every
word lie ,satd.
servo system is doing in large meas
ure and we hope the rural credits
ing fuller information. The latter
State reports tho color fair, but
weight somewhat light.
"In Kentucky the high condition
was maintained, the month be'ir:
Ideal for Housing and curing. Bur
ley there Is extra fine in color ar 1
texture and only a small amount of
the late crop was hurt by the drv
ranklns member of the Ways and system will do In even larger meas
Sleans Committee, writes from Illi
nois:
"Tho movement In favor of tho
President is assuming enormous pro
portions. Just,nt present it appears
to me that we will carry Illinois by
a majority that will surprise us."
Ex-Senator Charlo3 A. Towne.
who Is making a tour of tho West,
wired from Idaho:
"The trip is wonderfully encour
aging. Tell tho President there Is a
nation-wido re-blrtli."
After quoting many other leaders
the statement concludes:
One opinion nppear3 frequently
to-day at tho American Federation
of Labor headquarters. It is in t'n
form of a circular letter to all oifi
cers of organized labor, calling on
"Put money, or opportunity to them tQ hoW gi)edal nieetInB8 ,,.,..
earn it," he said, "on the farms and consider the issues of th-
.. ,..111 n Hinm fiM
me yeoiue . h" -" i -- can,j,aign and see to it that wag"
enough and stay with them. T13 . earnera go t0 tuo polls to protect
Is nreciselv what the Federal Re-I A.. .... . u-n (.
. ii i'ii laifirnis ti.tiiiuiai. nna ..
Tho letter Is elgnod by Samuel weather of September. Tile drynes,
r.ompers, president; James O'Con- was too extreme for the very bent
!.,. ..... i i7,..i, m,,- results In curing, but was part'eu-
neil, VlWl" Illl'SIUl'ill, tllltl ilium .-....-
rlson. secretary, as the Tcdontlor -rly favorable for the Proper ha-
Labor Representation Committee, vesting and housing of the lmmcn?o
and it has been sent to the heads.of crop. The frosH of the ICth and
.all affiliated organizations. In re- "" '"""" " ll """- i"- ;
viewing the record of the Admlnla- m. . o u"''-" , ' "'
r.i.. it ,.-.,ito tl.o President's Bron, uui iiiui. ci.i.u". .......,..-
nnnru soon banks, available to cv- . . ' .,... .,,... obtained in Tennessee, where the
.. j , . course in loreigu ainui. uetmuus, ,
cry reliable farmer, storekeeper or. wltfcout War ,, ,ng Mcurc, n,, crop was gathered with no loss fro.
businessman." ,,' the protection and benefits that To.t damage and where it 8Ufcer.nl
"Rod Almlchtv alone." he said, , little damage In cuiing.
ure.'
He told of the decentraliza
tion of huge accumulations of mon
ey from the few great centers and
Its transfer to the Federal Reserve
banks, "twelve reservoirs from
wIiIaJi nino lines already run to I
that at hone1 "ln oh, tho croI) cll(1 wpl1 untU
... . ..... ..i. i. .i tne irosi oi uiu "" "" '"
1 I1U 1I.1JUI I11U. Llll.'Uk l.llO -.. ..
i ful war, and asserts
"knows how many strong men have
had strength, hope and power sap-'
ped by unfair Interest rates, how recog,tlon for the rights which caught part of the crop In th
f-l . t.n..n ni.1 rvtttia U'orn i itl.l nn.l ilnitin rviil flirt ni HlltV T
many proiuiainK uu) .um b.lla -.- , ,..,.. bclnKs and opportunltv "-" """"f1 '
deprived of opportunity and driven part,c,rato In the nlMlw about K "pr cont- of tho BCr?
to worthlessness and crime by the , .,. ....' ... ' . ,,,. ,.n, ago of the cigar typo and 12 per
...... -- -.. f( ' ui HIT' Jttibiuit tit ih i'-v; - ..-.-.
in the White House correspondence, same uireiui, inexo.uu.e i.uc.. bef(jro )as hQen accnn,llsi,cti."
It is that the eight-hour day issue! "This is the first time since the, .
. . . ...... ,. l..n.nl.. rt Hia .inHntml l)nnkltlT .1. ...1..1 . f ...Tit. 1L! ('t
has turnea out to uo a terriuie U001U-. i".-bi"i5 " ......- "i-uirrjii.w mini .-i
ago," Con
"that tho
RKLKASR OF TOBACCO
A KKNTUCKV SIIIPMKNT
1 ... 1
erang for Republican Candidate, system nan a ceniui)
HiiKiin. it to iionr im Is snfferliiir ' troller Williams said,
fro.,,pn,inniv from the vitriolic ! farmer Has been ablo to borrow on ciievenne. Wyo.. Oct. 23. Th"
Epeeches attacking the Adamson law ? the security of his farm from any greateat rough rider of them all.
which Ho made earlier in the cam-' national bank." He added that ( ..Duffai0 Hill" himself, ha3 come out
palgn. This point is particularly thero Had been "a general collapsa for president Wilson's re-election,
clear ln reports from Ohio, where it in Interest charges in those sections Co Co(,y ,B a Broat a(imirer of that
cent, of tho Hurley. In Indiana a
light frost about the middle of the
month did some danias?, but ?. t'.i"
FOR PKKMDKNT WILSON greater part of tho crop had vbc-n
. cut the harm was not extensive. The
crop thero, which was. of a onlend'd
stand and growth, was otherwlsJ
harvested under very favorablo con
ditions. Tho crop In We3t Vlrgi"l
Washington, Oct. 21. Five hun
dred hogsheads "of tobacco shipped
Hut It has demonstrated that it Is a by Rudolph. Hack & Co., of Clarks
party of achievements. Tho Repub- vllle. Tenn., to Copenhagen on tho
lican party promised to revise the '.steamer Trafalgar, which was held
tariff downward but failed and Sen-1 up by the British Government. Have
ator Dolllver (Republican) donounc- been released to the consignee, ac-
ed them for It. When the Demo- coruinS io uu u..n..a. Dlu c -
... l...n.1 n...3 niiHi1 Iti fllrk ittli1t
clear ln reports from Ohio, where it m mieresi cuurm-p u . D1.v..u.... Col Co(ly lB a Broat a(lmirer oi uiai was iiuubuu .uu tmcu ... ...i
.. ...i i.. .1.. t....i.ii... i.., r.f tim nnimirv where the abuse was ... .. rii..Di n...i rmirii ri. tinn nml is n tlilti. colory leaf. In
n. . ........ xi -i . . 1...,. ll. o nranlnat nml 1 PPtlPml diSOOSl- ... 1...1. 1.. .......I ....!! ..-Itl. Tlinn. WIsKninln tllft TtftOk COlintV CrOll
lost a siaio which iney ui uuu iiiuu.iua b.v.v- .. - o .
were confident of carrying1 and have tlon by banks In all sections to live
... ... xi.-.. .......... .l.A Inw"
lnnt if inn n v npcause oi tueir ruau- "iiiuu vo ..
tlonary position on tho ls3uo of tho
eight-Hour day."
Pitiful Starvation.
Now York. Oct. 18. William
c?at cpar "undertook a ml.En of ceived by the State Department to- W.llard Howard, of New York, who
crat.c party unuertooK a rev on ago returned from His third trip
oLrTff they found Tobb ovl ' day OUlcr details of the release of has just returned from His third trip
tho tariff they founa dujww , ' lllnm . woro . Pnntninod in'throueh Albania, predicted that the
der, but ho cannot unite with Theo- Wisconsin the Rock county crop jirew
... . , ... . ... .......1.....1... ntir. Mm 3rt. 1 1 A. 11 C T
doro uooseveit m lnuorswg .ur. oiuiniuii) mivi ..- .,-,.... .
HUgnea. rains, but about 10 per c?nt. of tin
"Buffalo Bill" had always been a Northern crop and 2T. per cent, of
Republican until a few years at:o. the entire Stat- crop was caught bv
!... i.p ii.,o,i .... with tho Procres- frosts. The Wisconsin cro') la now
rates permitted by their Stato laws, ' . w n. 6talui8 this year la practically all out of tho hands of
the Controller said. ' Bnown by a characteristic telegram the growers."
sent by him from Kingston, N. C,
nauks that had been charging on
some loans up to CO and CO per
cent, are now limiting charges to the
... . ... ....... ..i
! ONLY MM1T lo Fnmk L Houx Sccrotary 0f State j "vr 'U,W 0T a7 of
oh MOTOHUISS 1'LANU . ,... ' Patlucah. Ky.. Oct, 21. All n
UI )UIIUH(j vw. fj a ......w..-w
SKY THi: ONLY LIMIT
1
ment reads:
Boston. Oct. 21. A motorlegg, "Hughes can't tide President Wll
monoplano, capable of reaching n'on IIo . nulling leather already
It 1b sign-
!Sw h. Tin greaTnumbor 0 fight !"8hrpmVnt were not contained In through Albania, predicted that the
To s c a inferesl ?reslde Wll- the message. ent.re population of Albania will die
nTsSal committee on their . This news -xn,ove the appro- of amino an a Pes 1 euce unlc
. i-i At a oniiitn.: nnnsinn or luuuuuu uouiuio hhw hu'vm. wm .. ... - ..
r'T,rJeLl pnor;bv He 'thought thW had good reason to.be- corn la $50 a bushel, flour ?80 a height of twelve mUes , ,tue Propo- nml wlll bo a,Squallfied."
0L .I ::. I .. n h-.t tariff, llove that Great Britain woujd Hold sack and macaroni $5 a pound. .suion uiai - VT. T.v . "n Co"
tM';:..:::: , and un large tobacco shipments lnefl- "While tho people of the United uor, e ...win p.aco ueiun. u.q -
- rrwkZVDe;ue Nobody dares .nltely unless tho shipments were States have been sending $30.000,, U.l AOTi-ory uoaru m ..u-
.Lf.ll it It protects no special in-'pald for prior to August 4 and ship- 000 worth of relief to isurope an u iu , uuu
nv?au H. " iiroii,LiB uu i""" ....., .... .... in rr,.ri,n. .iu nnn women nnd child-' Mr. Wile
t'lTtests and equalizes tho burdens or.m,em. Btancu to- "b. -.v
taxation among tho whole people.
The Democrats have also passed
(Joy. Stanley's nppolnlcps wore d?
feated In to-day's primary to nomi
nate two candidates for Muyor al
candidates for Commissioner. T'n
nominees for Mayor are: Frapk N.
Hums and C. L. VnnMelorj for Com-
NOTICK. mlsslonor, Thomas N. Hnzellp. R. H.
... . . . n. . r t-. -... -a. W A rinrl.
1000 worth of relief to Europe nnd this month. Spanish War Veterans uessrous or ireuuwuy. i. ... ., ","-
Turkoy, 200,000 women and child-j Mr. Wilson's aeroplane Has been forwarding tho election of Preslde-it nor, Don P. Marion nnd Jo.m u.
ren In Albania Have died of starva-' patented, nnd Ho hns been working Wilson and joining an organization Scott.
tt .i. ao .. .. i. m for Ave years to solvo the prouiem lmvlne that object, please communi- A iviayor ami uireo v.umu.i.i.u
AITS. WllllBUl n. iutncir, ui uuu nun, u o.u. . ... , . ,, i .. . . -. - ... .
lor live juuiH u Buivu hiw inuuiiiii Having lliai oujeci, ineaso vuiuiuunt- ....,. --
V. . r ,- ..Trtnr Francisco, withdrew as a membpr of! "While each woman and child In of keeping the aviator alive at ti.ai cate wUh John F. McCaffory. west- are to uajeu ; u.u.u.
",":: :;.. J::,;,m t ,; a t the women'. Hushes campaign party Belgium has had plenty to eat. worn- Height and at temperawroo. .ro n Democratic iieauquarters. uw
JUUirD. iM'tvu tww ... ... . T . , 1.l l.n,rr. I l'Ml trt VIII MOUrPOH IIOIIIW ZLTU. 1 I1W If Al. nti AVAtlllA IMIIPJIPO .. .- - --
,.nrHaf the rich-that which should, because of charges that me cam- en ana cuuaren in .um ..., "-'" -"- . w .,.""" "-"" - cold, matter-of-fact way
- . i . ...til .. . a .. ..n i a. i. mm pun otiriiB rir iinrufr in iirniiL-u iiui iu lui iiv hhjui - .
. i ... --.I i. u- nniL-nnra wore muiionaircBscH uuu imncu i mw "i""1"" ' ...- , s -- - ..... . ..........
Xq to iuwo" w"w "' '-;--"- t .,..,,, i,rt H.rn,B.. 'gained
lu which
process takes a heavy burden from dispute that folowed.
'gained by a solution of ono pound For classy Job printing The Hcralfl men discuss business.
