u,
VOL. 51
Mi
J.
ll
vY|
'MHPr'
THIS PAPER
SAMPLE
naatmmmmi
,f.
Official Ballot to be Voted Will Be
Found on Pages Four and Five of
Review, First Section. "n~
READ THE BALLOT CAREFULLY
Be 8ure and Mark an Before Each of
Presidential Eeletors, Also 3tate
and County Candidates.
The official ballot to be voted at the
election Tuesday, November 7th, will
be found on pages four and five of the
first section of this week's iskue of the
Review, and we urge that every voter
study this sample ballot carefully.
There are six tickets represented on
the ballot at this election and the po
sitions occupied by the different part
ies on the ballot are as follows: Re
publican, first democratic, second
progressive, third socialist, fourth
prohibition, fifth, and socialist labor,
sixth. On the seventh and last col
umn of the ballot will be found the
non-partisan Judicial ticket, the names
I. of three candidates appearing there,
two of which you are entitled to vote
for. It will be noticed that only the
republican and democratic have coun
ty tickets filled so that it will be nec
essary for progressive, socialist, pro
hibttion and socialist labor voters who
desire to vote for republican county
candidates to come clear across the
ballot and put a cross in the square
1
opposite the candidate they wish to
vote for.
Both the republican and democratic
okets are complete without a single
xception while there are vacancies
the four other tickets printed on
}ie ballot.
Voters should bear in mind that
iey do not vote directly for the pres
fential candidates, but those who de
i-e to vote for Hughes are required
mark a cross in the square before
he names of the thirteen presidential
Rectors. This is also true of the oth-
Jer
presidential candidates. If you
'want to have youi^ vote for president
/count don't fail to put a cross before
.'the name of each of the thirteen elec
i1 tors.
I Following the thirteen presidential
electors on each ticket will be found
the candidates for state office. In the
republiciin column will be found the
name of W. L. Harding, the republican
candidate for governor, with the other
state officers following down in" order.
J. Klinker,- of Denison, the present
Representative. Those voters who. de
ire to cast a ballot for the return of
r. Klinker may do so by putting a
iross in the square opposite his name.
j!
MENAGH 5
1
/1
S O E
C^TRU* TJ. *. IIM» O.
Modish Trimmed
Hals Reduced
To a fraction of their real
worth. All $4.00, $5.00 and
and $6.00 trimmed d|1 QO
hats now priced at yleJ/O
"I
As there are but two tickets in the
Held for county officers voters should
have no difficulty in casting their bal
lots for their favorites. The republi
can candidates are in tile first column
and tpe democratic in the second.
'The ballot at this election is prob
ably the largest that has ever been
voted by Crawford county vot9rs. It
measures 28 inches by 18 3-4 inches,
and requires almost a double page of
the Review to reproduce. The type
used was loaned the Review by the
Bulletin, who will print the ballots
from this form next week to be used
at the various polls in the county.
Voters who read the Review should
give the ballot careful consideration.
They should study it over in advance
and determine how they are going to
vote. Responsibility for one's vote is
great indeed, for upon the choice of
the people rests the destiny of the na
tion, Upon it also rests the welfare
of the people, each and every one.
When you are looking over the ballot
consider it from the standpoint of real
justice and equity. Don't allow pas
sion and prejudice to interfere win
your better judgment. By all means
remember what the republican party
has done for you in the past. If you
do you will mark your ballot in thei
first column from the presidential elec
tors clear on down through the coun
ty ticket.
DANIEL STRONG HURT
Son of Mrs. Rose Strong, Formerly of
Denison, Run Down by Auto ajt
Sioux City Laat Tuesday.
son of Mrs. Rose Strong, who was
formerly head nurse at the Denison
Hospital, but who is now residing at
Sioux City.
Friends of Mrs. Strong will be in
terested in the item, which follows:
"Daniel Strong, 5-year old son of
Mrs. Rose Strong, residing at the Vil
la Maria, 1001 Pearl street, who
guided his small coaster wagon be
neath the wheels of a motor car dri
ven by Mrs. S. T. King, 2023 Pierce
street, Tuesday evening, was improv
ed at St. Vincent's hospital last night.
His right leg was broken and he
suffered minor bruises. He will re
cover.
"Mrs. King placed the boy in her
motor car and rushed him to St. Vin
cent's hospital, where she remained
for several hours until the extent of
the injuries could be ascertained."
Mr. John Heffernan, of Dolan, S. D.,
is. spending, a few days in Denison this
week visiting friends Mr. Heffernan
Thenames of "this candidates for state! slipped a car .load of grass fed cattm
representative immediately precede to the Chcago market, for which he
the county tickets. In the republican received $8.50 p«fr hundred. He ac
olitmn will be found the name of Mr.
companied the shipment to Chicago,
and has taken,occasion to stop off in
Denison on his' way home for a brief
visit with his many friends. Mr. Her.
fernan rents a farm belonging to Mr.
George Naeve.
BAD FIRE AT
MEYERS BAKERY
Fire Discovered by Nightwatch Greene
at Four O'CoIck Monday Morn
ing, Proves Disastrous.
MODEL ELECTRIC CO. DAMAGED
Prompt Work by Firemen Undoubted
ly Saved Entire Block to Opera
House— Insurance CarriecL
Afire at the Meyers bakery on East
Broadway at an early hour Monday
morning practically destroyed the
contents of the building, causing a
loss to Mr. Meyers of almost a thous
and dollar^. The building was dam
aged to gome extent as. well as the one
adjofning it, occupied by the Model
Electric company, and hart It not been
for the quick work of the fire depart
ment both properties would have been
a total loss.
The fire was discovered bv Nfght
watchman Greene in making his
rounds at 4 o'clook in the morning.
Mr. Greene smelled smoke and broke
in the door to the basement. The
basement weY so full of smoke that
he was unable to make an investiga
tion so he hurried to the Hotel Deni
son and phoned the alarm. The'siren
whistle at the municipal .light plant
was brought into action and it was
not long before, the firemen were on
hand with the equipment. Shortly af
ter their arrival flames were shooting
The Sioux City Journal of last Wed
nesday printed an account of an ac
cident to Daniel Strong, 5-year old out from the sides of the building and A representative of the company has
The stock and fixtures on the 'main
floor of the bakery were damaged by
Women's New Tailored Suits
Thirty-five women's high grade tailored suits are
offered for 3 days at a saving of 33 1-3 per cent
$37.50 Suits *0/| CA $25 and $30 (1 0£
are priced at yaiTwV Suits now af "P
175 Sweaters at Less Than Wholesale
Come Early if Interested
Men's high grade heavy rope knit sweaters, in d|0 QO
nearly all desirable colors, go at the special price of «pOe^O
Men's $5.00 heavy worsted sweaters now priced at only $2 89
Men's $3.00 sweaters on sale Thursday, Friday and Sat. $1.98
On Women's & Children's Sweaters You Save About 1-3
Stylish Footwear for Women
At prices that will save you 25 to 45 per cent. Some of Amer
ica's foremost shoe manufacturers' productions are offered in-1
eluding the well known Red Cross shoes. Twenty-one styles,
including every new last and color combination that we have
shown this season.
All $5.50, $6. $6.50 0A QC
and $7.00 Shoes at
THE DENISON REVIEW
THE PAPER YOU TAKE HOME
DENISON, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, OCT. 25, 1916.
MAN IS CAUGHT AT DUNLAP
Stranger Drives the Baggageman From
His Poat,'Cldses the Door and
Locks iHiniitlf In.
DUNLAP, Oct. 24—The sheriff was
in town Monday after a man charged
with having held up "the men in a bag
gage car on an eastbound train from
Missouri Valley to Dunlap.
It is said he pushed the baggageman
off the rear platfotyn and locked him
self in the baggage car, refusing to
open the door to any one.
The sheriff boarded the.train at Lo
gan and succeeded fn getting his man
at Dunlap and making the arrest.
The fellow had two suit cases' and
in one was found twenty-four quarts
of booze.
He is at present confined it) the Dun
lap jail awaiting a trip to Logan.
The fellow's name could not be
learned. He is not known to any one
in this section.
Editor O. E. Bramson, of the Dunlap
Reporter, was in the city today trans
acting business.
The street flusher contracted for by
the city has not yet been accepted by
the city council, pending some chang
es which are being made to It. When
the contract was drawn up with the
company manufacturing it, it was un
derstood that the flusher was to be
just like the one at Harlan, but the
one supplied to Denison lacked some
of the features of the Harlan flusher.
had there been an east wind blowing!been in Denison the-past week making
doubtless all of the frame
buildings
been in jeopardy. The fire boys work
ed vigorously and it wsr not long be
fore the flames were extinguished.
the necessary changes and it is being
smoke and water and will probably bo It is doubtful whether the flusher will
a total loss. Flour valued at $200.00.
stored at the roar of the salesroom
was watersoaked and of course is of
no value.
Some damage was sustained by Al
fred Rohwer, owner of the Model Elec
tric company, although most of his
stock was removed from the building
soon after the alarm was sent in.
The exact cause of the fire is not
known. Mr. Meyers baked in the oven
Sunday and left that afternoon for
Grinnel to visit his little baby. It is
thought that a defective flue in the
oven might have caused the blaze.
Mr. Meyers returned home Monday
evening from Grinnell and is now bus
ily engaged in cleaning up and expects
to have the place fixed up within the
next week or two. He has repaired
the oven and commenced baking this
morning and will sell bread, rolls and
pastries at the rear of the salesroom.
The loss was completely covered by
insurance, which we understand has
been adjusted.
do the work expected of it.
Crawford county'has been experi
encing anything but pleasant October
weather during the past week. Thurs
day forenoon a drizzling rain turned
into a miniature blizzard which kept
up until the' ground w&s covered by
snow and brought 'out snow shovels in
full force. There yere many hurry
up calls for the coal dealers from peo
ple who had not already put in their
winter supply and business houses did
a flourishing business in. heavy under
wear, overcoats and rubbers. Old time
residents tell us that we are experi
encing a squaw »rtnter.«»nd- that
dlan summer win be with us before
many days. 'Last night there was a
light fall of snow, which melted al
most as fast as it touched the ground.
The winter weather could not have
come at a'more inopportune time as
most of the farmers were in the midst
of corn picking which will now have
to be delayed until thefields are dry.
If It's Fashionable, Menagh's Have It
There is one store in Denison that takes pride in saying that Crawford County is
the garden spot of America, and people can live here and enjoy life at less cost than
any other place on earth.
8 Great Specials That Will Interest You
Thursday, Friday and Saturday—Come Early
All $7.50, $8.00 QC
and $9.00 Shoes
-tV"
MEETS DEATH
BY HANGING
William Lange Committed Suicide by
Hanging Last Friday Night at
the Emil Gust Home.
WAS APPARENTLY NO CAUSE
Sympathy of Entire Community Goes
Out to Bereaved Parents—Fun
eral Monday at His Home
William Lange, 19 year 'old son of
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Lange, residing
a few miles north of Denison. commit
ted suicide at the Emil Gust farm In
Willow township on Friday night of
last week by hanging.
It seems that young Lange met Mr.
Gust at Ute on Fridaiy and hired out
to him to pick corn. He drove with
Mr. Oust to the farm on Friday and
was to commence work Saturday morn
ing. The boy seemed to be in good
clear to the opera house would have tested out this afternoon. It seems that and bring the body to Denison. There rangements for the funeral have not
the Harlan flusher bad levers running is no apparent reason for the rash act
from the driver's seat to operate the committed by the young man.
two flusher pipes, which was lacking The deceased has long been a resi
on the one shipped here. These, we dent of this county and attended the
understand, have now been provided.
German Lutheran parochial school in
Denison. He assisted his father on
the farm north of Denison for the past
few years and being anxious to earn
a little extra spending money thought
he would spend a few weeks this fall
picking corn.
Funeral services were held from the
home north of Denison on Monday,
Rev. E. Witter, pastor of the German
Methodist church, officiating.
The family have the sympathy of
the community in their sorrow.
Men's $18.50 Suits at $13.85
There are 61 of these suits. They are made from worsted
and cashmere fabrics, and are guaranteed, every one, to give
you substantial wear for two full seasons. For Ag
these' three days we offer these suits at only *P 0*00
Dry Goods Specials
1,500 yards of outing flannel, regular 12 I-2c value, on
sale for these three days at the special price per yard of
Mercerized table cloth
33c
Great News for the Men
Once each season we put on a sale of men's hats,. We
offer at this time the quality that usually retails at $3. Probably
you have heard of these hats, they ara nationally d*
1 AA
advertised—They are the Gordon hats. The price is *r vr
Cold Weather Footwear
Men's heavy rubbe' arctics one buckle guaranteed (T1 1Q
Priced for Thursday, Friday and Sat., pair «pJ-•-!.*/
quality.
Womer
offered for these three days at the special price
Women's guaranteed quality, one buckle arctics
^fwjgfiwwppfipp^
OLD AND RESPECTED CITIZEN
Death of Mr. Jeremiah Hassett Which
Occurred This Nopn, C$st 5l6om
Over Entire Ccwwriunit/.
It is with deep regret that the Re
view is called upon to chronicle the
death of one of Crawford county's
pioneer citizens, Mr. Jeremiah Has
sett, which occurred a few minutes af
ter 12 o'clock this afternoon at the
family residence on West Chestnut
street. Mr. Hassett had been failing
in health for several months, due to
the Infirmities of old age, and death
came as a relief from his' sufferings.
been made.
TI
Attention of Review readers is. call
ed to the announcement of the sale of
the, Henry Shirtcliff farm in Willow
township, which ad appears on page
aaven .qf Mi ft Aral aention. There are r.iting week as a runaway from
200 acres in this fine farm, most of
which is under cultivation. The land
will be sold at public auction on Oc
tober 30th, at 2:00 o'clock in the af
ternoon, the sale taking place at the
farm. Malone Brothers will cry the
sale and M. E. Jones will clerk. Any
one desiring a good farm should by all
means attend this sale.
If'l
At the time of going to press we are
unable to learn the full particulars of n_
this esteemed citizen, but in our next Chamberlin, proprietor of
issue we hope to be able to print the Chamberlin Motor & Supply com-
complete obituary. Mr. Hassett was
united in marriage to Miss Bridget!
O'Donovan on the third day of No
vember, 1866, in New York. In 1870
they moved to Davenport, where they
resided for a short time and in 1871
spirits Friday evening and enjoyed his years, later returning to Denison to say that it was an exceptional bar
supper with the members of the Gu^t make their home. Mrs. Hassett de- gain at the price paid by Clarence,
family. When it came time to retire parted this life Oct. 3, 1913. Mr. Has- The property has 40 feet fronting on
young Lange went upstairs to his sett is survived by the following chil- .Broadway and 150 feet on Sweet street
room, but later Mr. Gust heard him dren: Mrs. Mary McMahon, of this Two small frame buildings now occu
go down the stairs and out of the! city Cora Hassett, who lives in East py this corner, one occupied by the
house, but shortly he returned and' Boyer township Mrs. Francis McSor- Meyers bakery, the other by the Mod
went back to his room. Arising at an' ley, of Manilla: Tom and Patrick, of el Electric company.
early hour Saturday TOorr)ng Mr. "Denison Mrs. Pat Lane, of Vail Mrs., Mr. Chamberlin purchased this de
Gust found a lantern burning in the -T-
w-
kitchen and upon going to the barn Frank Comstock, of Manilla Miss Kate:a modern garage within the course of
found the lifeless body of Lange sus-j Hassett, of Denison Mrs. Clarence a year or two. It is his intention to
pended from a rafter. The county cor-1 O'Meara, of Dow City, and John Has-1 erect a garage two stories high with
oner was notified and he notified an
s®tt,
undertaker from Denison to go out At the time of going to press ar- ner. and to cost in the neighborhood'
1
An item appearing in the Omaha Bee
of recent date will be of interest to
readers of the Review:
''Ida Kaplan's quest of the bright
lights is over. After a more or lesB ex
her
home in Denison,. the 16 year old. girl
will probably be taken home by her
mother, Mrs. Geo. Kaplan, who arrived
in Omaha yesterday. An attempted
alias aroused suspicions of jnvenile
authorities, who finally secured a con
fession from the youthful Iowan that
she had run away from her home in
Denison."
7
19c
Black Cat Hose for
60 inches wide, per yd children,mill run, pr.
4,
$1.14
wiyiiiiijiiJiuajli-:. iiiiisiniiiiiii
Pieass mention The Re
view when answering
"Classified Ads." This
courtesy will be appre
elated.
Clarence Chamberlin, of Chamberlin
Motor £. Supply Co., Buys Menagh
Property on Broadway.
TO ERECT A MODERN GARAGE
One of the Best Deals in Yeare—Clar
ence Will No Doubt Make Big
Success of Business
pany, closed a deal jthe first of this
week whereby he becomes the owner
of the Menagh property on the corner
of Broadway and Sweet street, just
opposite the Hotel Denison. The prop
erty was purchased of Mr. Geo. Men
agh, who represented the heirs of
came to Denison and lived here for a
period of five years, during which time Hugh Menagh and ^'the pu"rchase"prlce
Mr. Hassett was section foreman on was $5,500.
the Northwestern railroad. They then This is one of the most valuable
moved to East Boyer township, where pieces of real estate in the business
they lived on a farm for thirty-six section of the city and real estate men
Bauman, of Buck Grove Mrs. jsirable corner with a view of erecting
of East Boyer township. a basement covering the entire cor-
of $*50,000. Located sb It is just oppo
site from the Hotel Denison, it is an
,, ,, ideal location for a first class garage.
Henry P. Saggau sold his residence Denison has long been in need of a
property on East Church street last modern garage and Clarence believes
week to Edlef Jensen, of CharterOak, jthat it will pay big dividends on the
who will take possession of the same investment. He plans to devote a por
December 1st. Mr. Saggau is con-1 tion of the ground floor to a show
templating the construction of a new room and salesroom, where new mod
bungelow next spring on a lot adjoin- els will be on display. On the second
ing the Lally residence. floor he will maintain a first class re
r- pair department with all of the neces-
MISS KAPLAN HOME. sary machinery for work of this kind.
The basement and part of the ground
Mother of Miss Ida Kaplan Returns floor will be utilized for storage pur
With Daughter From Omaha,
Where Young Lady Had Gone
poses.
For the past year Clarence has
handled the Reo car in this county and
has conducted a garage juat across
from the federal building. He., has!
maintained a first class tire Tepalr-de
partment and has enjoyed a large.pat
ronage. He is an energetic young
nian and has enough push and energy-1
to make a success oEi his new under:
taking.' .. -•».. ...
The Herman Reimer home on Wash
ington avenue was not sold at public
auction last Saturday as planned. A
good crowd was in attendance at the
bale, but the bids received were not
satisfactory.
Fancy Cooking or
Eating Apples
Priced while they last at only
59c Per Bushel
••ii'V::
A
No. 43
'ilil
V-
*1
'^1|
i''
iN
'"'"l
-ill
..•II
-AH
j.-v
I
ft* V#
