Crossville
Chronicle.
CONSOLIDATE -1896
THE TENNESSEE TtMM
0 O 88 VILLI- OHHONIOLi 1
CROSSVILLE. TENNESSEE. WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 25. 1916.
NO. 43
VOL. XXX.
THE CLIFTY SPIRIT'
What It Has Done and is Doing at the
Mines of the Clifty Consolidated
Coal Company Along Lines
of Better Citizenship.
The "Clifty Spirit". To those who
have not visited the little mining town
of Clifty, just over the White county
line, and who have not learned what is
being done there, that expression
means little. To those who understand
it's meaning, there are volumes in it.
The Chronicle editor and wife were
recently motored there by Frank Lem
ert and all learned what the "Clifty
Spirit ' means. '
JJ It is the general custom in mining
Camps for the operators to offer little!
encouragement towards thrift on the 1
part of their men. On that point the
manager of the Clifty Consolidated
Coal Company, Dr. W. B. Young, de
parts abruptly from the usual custom.
It is the purpose ot this article to tell
briefly of some of the things Dr. Young
Las put on foot to help the men to be
come better citizens, to have more of
the comforts and refinements of lite
and to become food producers.
CLUB ROOM.
B The first move was to establish a
club room where they now have sixteen
monthly and weekly magazines, three
daily papers and several weekly pa
pers, all of which are free to club
members. This club room is situated
near the center of tne village of about
700 people and answers as a town hall,
amusement hall and reading room. It
is built ell shaped and could seat close
to 300 people. It was built in one day
by the men. When building day ar
rived more wen were on hand to offer
free aid than could be used. The first
! hearty, yet unobtrusive kindness shown
us by Mrs. Moore and two daughters
I ma: e us soon forget we were strangers.
CATTLE AND FARMING.
Blooded cattle and scientific farming
engages the spare time of nearly all
the men wmle some of the women in
dulge in pureblood chickens.
Prof. J. E. Brandon, Who has been
specialty of Silver Wyandott chickens,
Mrs. R. H. Lovejoy, Barred Plymouth
Rocks, and Mrs. K. E. McCorniick.
White Hocks; Mrs. W. B. Young has
the Buff Orphingtons and Mrs. J. K.
Gott, Brown Leghorns.
There are now 180 acres under culti
vation and every acre is in cover crop
ot some kind. The sixteen acres of
clover now in evidence will be doubled
within a year.
The teaching force in the public
INSTANTLY KILLED BY
MOVING ELEVATOR
principal of the school for twelve ! chool is Prof. J. E. Brandon, Princi
pal; Miss Willie Officer, Intermediate;
Miss Sallie Hudgens, Primary; Miss
Moselle Reaves, Music. The school
building has five rooms. Miss Officer
will be pleasantly remembered by some
in this county as having taught the
Hickory Grove school some years ago.
Her services were very satisfactory
and she is doing most excellent work
now at Clifty.
The political complexion is about
evenly divided, but the subject seems
to be discussed very seldom for more
pleasant and congenial subjects can be
found that lead to community better
ment and that seems to be uppermost
in every Clifty mind.
FAIR EXHIBITS.
years, and is now demonstration agent,
has several splendid specimens of
Hereford cattle. Also William Richard
Young, the young son of Dr. W. B.
Young, has the Hereford cattle and
the Duroc hogs. The young man has
recently sold a Hereford bull only five
months old to Eqs. D. W. Lundy, of
Pleasant Hill, for $50. No person
thinks Esq. Lundy is profligate or
j wasteful, but on the other hand is a
careful business man. This purchase
I shows that the value ot pure bred stock
1 is growing in favor with our people.
Besides owning Hereford cattle,
teaching and acting as .demonstration
agent, Prof. Brandon has found time
to start an acre of alfalfa, which it is
a treat to see just now with its deep
green in contrast to the generally
brown fields.
J. E. Converse has numerous experi
mental plats there and he has been en
gaged by the N. C. & St. L. railroad
to have general supervision'of their ex
perimental farm of six acres. Prof.
Brandon gives this work considerable
attention.
Tne establishing of this six acre ex
perimental far i by the railroad is di
rectly due to .! seph H. Judd, special
agricultural ap t, and he has there
an acre ot as fin alfalfa as grows any
where. He hari several other success
ful crops on the farm this year.
COMMUNITY FARMS.
Two years ago Dr. Young conceived
the idea of promoting what he calls
community farms. Seventy acres was
fenced, cleared and divided into tracts
of one acre each. In one direction the
They will take two cars of live stock,
poultry and farm products to the fair
to be held at Sparta this week. They
assured the writer that next year they
would come to our lair with a splendid
and widely diversified exhibit, which
means that Cumberland county farmers
will have in the Clifty people competi
tors worthy of their best efforts.
There are many other interesting
things in connection with this most re
markable mining town we could men
iton, but space forbids.
We cannot refrain from saying, how
ever, that when one learns what the
"Clifly Spirit" really means in all its
fullness his admiration will be un
bounded and he will long tor a larger
measure ot it in his own community.
WE CAN DO IT TOO.
officers were chosen and i plats are separated by a strip einht
StKi was raised to Jsupport it. I feet wide tor turning room while culti-
in this room there are several long j vating. The other way ot the plats
tobies with chairs where boys or men j there is a 12-foot driveway, so crops
may read and play games. The night j may be removed without injury to any
the writer was there about twenty -five ! one
men and bovs were present. Wo more
pleasant, quiet and orderly gathering
meets anywhere.
During the summer months ice cream
is served Friday and Saturday nights
BDd the profits go to meet club ex
penses. The women and children are not for
gotten, for frequently an evening is
devoted to a spelling match, recita
tions, etc., in which the women and
Children take part and a royal good
time is had bv all.
THE CLUB OFFICERS.
At present L. S. Bumgardner is
President and a. D. Holt, secretary.
The benefits of the Club Room are not
confined to the people of Clifty. Any
person in that section who chooses to,
may frequent the club room, enjoy the
rendinar matter and partake ot its ben
efits general)). As a result J. L. An
derson, M. L. Taylor, J. L. Lowe and
other good cniens of that section are
Often at the meetings and frequent the
read ins room.
One may think there are no churches
or secret orders there and for that rea
son the reading room is a necessity.
There are three established church or
ganization! and Masonic lodge.
There is not a churrjh house in town.
AH the church organizations use the
school bouse, w&ieb is a commodious
building, where Prof. J. E. Brandon
and his two assistants conduct a suc
cessful school nine mennfcs each year.
So harmoniously do these churches
got along that members ot ail the
Cburcbes attend all services, Any
Church denomination is welcome to use
the building and all services are well
Attended.
The people are eo zealous about the
Clifty Spirit" that church, politics
and all organization must yield to tne
tvell being of the community as a
bole.
To meet the Clifty people and feel
that large and kindly spirit they ex
tend to stranaera awakena ones keen-!
est admiration.
We were entertained at the hotel
conducted by Mrs. T, H Moore. The
lhese acre tracts are turned over t
the men at cost of preparation and
they are used free so long as desired.
Of the seventy one-acre plats all are
now under cultivation except three.
All kinds of crops are grown, but
this year the most profitable crop has
been potatoes. In some instances over
l $60 net was cleared, lhree cars have
been shipped and they netted the grow
ers one dollar a bushel.
The farming is done according to sci
entific methods as is shown by the fact
that almost every one has his plat in a
winter cover crop now. One year ago
there was no clover or alfalfa in culti
vation in Clifty, now there are sixteen
acres in clover and two acres
fait a.
COMMUM1 TS1LO.
What is being done at Clifty is a
source of great encouragement to the
people of this county who live near
Clifty am should be very encouraging
to our people all over tne county.
Since the soil, elevation and every na
tural feature at Clifty is the same as
thi- county, there is every reason why
just as good crops, just as much agri
cultural progress and just as much
community progress be made in every
neighborhood in this county. We are
the same people, we have trre same
soil, our people are as intelligent and
all that is needed is for every commu
nity in this county to adopt the "Clifty
Spirit' ana the same splendid results
will be feund all over our county. We
hope to see it done in many Cumber
and c unty neighborhoods.
Clifty being only 16 miles from
Crossville and a good graded mad to be
completed between the two places
soon, we feel sine that Crossville,
through closer neighborly contact, will
be much benefited by the ' Clifty Spir
it" through imbibing the same broad,
live, generous and energetic spirit that
moves them to such splendid accomplishments.
The Art Circle will meet with Mrs.
. W. Dorton this week.
This year a communty silo has been
built and tilled by eleven people. It
holds 6u tons and is full to the brim.
The silage was weighed in and will be
weighed out. The outcome will be
watched with interest.
The Clifty Company has 152 houses
all of which are occupied. A house is
never empty long for usually there are
severa men waiting for houses.
Mine Foreman L. S. Bumgardner Is
deeply interested in scientific farming.
He has a few acres of corn that will
easily shuck out 75 buhsels to the acre.
Storekeeper K. E. McCormick grew
potatoes this year that brought $75 net
to the acre, while several others almost
reached that figure. R. H. Lovejoy
and R. D. Holt, bookkeepers for the
company, take a deep interest in every
movement that is for the community
interest. Dr. J. B. Gott is an enthu
siast who wields a splendid influence
among the people while curing their
ill.
Depot Agent S. E. Stone has a
twenty acre farm that shows the touch
of a skillful band. Tom Bell, Geo.
O Neal, machinist, Aif Parker, Mr.
Rockley and numerous others whose
names we do not recall are interested
in scientific farming.
BLOODED CHICKENS.
Mrs. W. R. Bouldin is making a
Saturday a telegram was received by
Prof. O. K. Binford notifying him of
the sudden death of Mrs. IfMiford's
father at Ensley, Ala. Mrs. Uintord
in al-1 an i brother, Marshal Fitzgerald, left
Sunday for Ensley to attend the funer
al. Tney will return the last ot the
week.
Estrayed Pale red cow with white
face, no marks of label. Jas. Smith. tf
On November 10, all magazines will
increase in price and much iess can be
saved by clubs tban now. Mary Bishop
will takt: your order for any magazine
you want and save you money. Get
your list oi Christmas magazines in
before the rise in prices.
Mrs. Voloer Ham by has been quite
ill since Sunday and confined to her
room. Mr. Hamby has also been
suffering with tjnsilitis and is quite
sick yet.
S. W. Potter and daughter, Miss
Bessie, spent part of last week in
Nashville.
Miss Anne Melvin was the week-end
guest at the Andy E more home She
returned to her home at Waldensia
Monday, accompanied by Mrs. Elmore,
who will be the guest of Mrs. Melvin
a few daya. j
Estrayed Three calves, two heifers
and one steer; all labeled in left ear
with "O. J. Schlicber ' and no address.
St er and one heifer solid red and other
heifer red with white markings. O.
J. Schlicber, Crossville. 10-25-tf.
Saturday morning Leonard Potter
Miss Marie Cline Crushed to Death In
General Hospital, Knoxville, Sun
dayRemains Interred Here
Yesterday Afternoon.
Miss Marie t ime, daughter of Prof.
J. S, Cline and wife, Crab Orchard,
was instantly killed in the General hos
pital, Knoxville, Sunday afternoon at
four o'clock, when her body was
caught between a moving elevator and
the floor of the building.
The unfortunate accident occurred in
this way : Miss Cline had taken a pa
tient from the ihird to the first floor
and was returning with the wheel
chair. When she reached the third
floor she opened the elevator door and
pushed the wheel chair from the eleva
tor to that floor. The elevator was
moving very slowly and as Miss Cline
attempted to step back into' the eleva
tor, intending to go on to the fourth
floor, she missed her footing and tell.
When she fell her hand left the ..'en
trolling wheel of the elevator and she
could not stop the elevator. She was
carried up to the next floor where her
i life was quickly crushed out. The
skull wan tractured at the base near
: the right ear and her throat was
bruised and lacerated to some extent.
She gave one scream and all was over
before any assistance could possibly
come to her.
Miss Florine Thompson, another
nurse, was passing and spoke to Miss
Cline just before the accident occurred.
Miss ThomDson ran for he'p but noth
ing could be done for the unfortunate
girl so quickly was it all over. The
body remained wedged so tight m the
elevator shaft that quite a portion of
the elevator floor had to be cut away
before the body could be removed. It
leijuired an hour to do the necessary
work to secure the body.
Miss Cline was born at Wapello,
Iowa, Feb 19, 1898, and was in her
nineteenth year, had been a student at
the Knoxville General Hospital for
four months and bad oeen making such
splendid progress that the superintend
ent, Miss Laura N. Pierson, had stated
that Miss Cline promised to make one
ot the best nurses ever turned out by
that institution. She taught school in
this county one term. Last year she
was one ot the winners in the Panama
Exposition subscription contest put on
by the Chattanooga News and made
the trio with the News party. She
was a bright and lovable girl and had
many friends in tlii3 county.
Prof. Cline was notified by wire Sun
day evening about six o'clock. The!
message stated that she was fatally
young ladies that she wanted them to
sing that at her funeral, little thinking
j how soon they would be called upon to
comply with that request. Miss An
toinette Jackson, Crossville, played
"Pass Me ;Not O Gentle Saviour,"
with variations, by special request, as
that was a favorite piece ot Miss
Cline's.
The remains were brought here from
Crab Orchard, accompanied by a large
concourse of people, and laid to rest in
the city cemetery. The services at the
grave were conducted by Revs. Hall
and L. A. Hurst. The High School
Glee Club, under the direction of Miss
Ethel Keyes, rendered several pieces
during the ceremonies. Both the city
schools and the High School turned out
and attended the burial, as a special
mark of respect to Prof. Cline, who is
county superintendent. Fully SOU peo
ple were present at the interment and
every mark of kindness and respect
that it seeemd possible for any one to
show was extended in the spirit ot ex
treme friendliness.
A profusion of flowers was in evf
rience, as marks of esteem and sym
pathy by friends of the family.
Miss Izola Sweeney, Wapello, Iowa,
sister of Mrs. Cline, wired she would
arrive on the afternoon train yester
day but did not arrive until this morn
ing train, thus failing to be present at
the funeral. Baxter Burnett, son-in-law
of Prof, and Mrs. Cline, arrived
from Kentucky in time lor the burial.
No other friends from a distance were
present.
On the way from Crab Orchard to
j Crossville an accident occurred where
I by Mrs. Cline vaa thrown from a bug
1 kv and her risrht shoulder dislocated
and the bones injured. Dr. McCamy
examined the injury at Crab Orchard
at the time of the accident, but did not
consider it serious enough co demand
immediate dressing and It was not
dressed until alter the funeral, On ar
riving at Crossville the injury was
dressed by Dr. V. L, Lewis, and Mrs.
Cline is expectea to be fully recovered
within a few days or weeks.
CONGRESSMAN HULL SPEAKS
Given Respectful Hearing by Well Filled
House of Both Parties.
hurt and could not live until morning.
Preparations were being made by Prof.
Cline and wife to go to Knoxville by
automobile at once, but a phone mes
sage apprised them of her instant
death and the trip was abandonod.
Prof. Cline, wife and S. C. Bishop
went to Knoxville on the early train
Monday morning. On arriving at the
hospital they found the body had been
embalmed and prepared tor the casket
The casket was selected and the re
mains were brought to Crab Orchard
Monday.
The expenses of embalming tbe body !
and furnishing tbe casket were borne
by the institution and every possible j
courtesy was shown both by the insti-1
tution. Mayor McMillin, and Miss Pier-1
son, superintendent ei tne hospital,
Congressman Cordell Hull spoke in
the court house last Wednesday at I p.
m. The court room was filled to its
full seating capacity and interested
and respectful attention was accorded
him from first to last.
His time was mainly taken up dis
cussing the constructive legislation of
the present administration and showing
how the Underwood tariff had proven
in every way effective in raising the
needeo revenues for running ti e gov
ernment. He made the statement that
munitions constitute only two and one
half per cent of our exports. Uy that
statement he doubtless referred solely
to powder and shells and such tilings as
pertain directly to the explosive end of
the great struggle. When one consid
ers the millions spent for food, cloth
ing, blankets, automobiles, barbed
wire and numerous other articles that
the war has caused to sell in many
hundred per cent more than in normal
times, he cannot then say in that light
that only two and one-half ot our ex
ports are munitions of war.
It was only natural that Judgo Hull
abould put the best face possible on the
course of bis pasty and he was roundly
cheered by his democratic friends as
he made repeated strong points.
Having won the great distinction he
has in congress as being the author of
tbe income tax law, our people, re
gardless of party, teel much prida in
KImm rwl dI .l.ak. i k:
who accompanied the friends to the when Be viBit8 our town. 0ur
train and in every way possible con- realize that in him they have a servant
veyed their deep regret at the unfortu-' who is full of tireless energy, is ever
nate accident. i ready to render any
The funeral services were held at ffii,HAV
assistance
regardless ot
to his
party
OUR JITNEY OFFER -THIS AND 5c
DON T MISS THIS. Cut out this
slip, enclose with five cents to Foley ft
Co., Chicago, III., writing your name
and address clearly. You will receive
in return a trial package containing
Foley s Honey and Tar Compound, for
cougns. colds, and croup, Foley Kidney
Pills, and Foley Cathartic Tablets.
For sale by Reed & Burnett.
nifitraH ft nint nf rtn atravhprni mt
the Payne farm, four miles north of the Cline residence, Crab Orchard, yea
ton. There was a heavy frost on tbe terday at ten o'clock, conducted by
ground but he said the berry vines Revs. W. L. Patton and Robt. Hall.
were orignt ano green ana tnere were Tt, k--0 -.,.h
several pints of the ripe fruit. i ,lhe barers C0D,18td oi l ?"
I lady friends and six young gentleman
Reed ft Burnett are giving an inter- , M- ,
esting and helpful talk on clothing rifnud8- M88ea Mar,eXI Wheele nd
this week. It will pay you to read Lelan Hembree sang "Nearer My God
their ad. on another page of this issue, to Thee. " Miss Cline had drilled them
I Dr. V. L. Lewis went to Nashville ,or 9on at Christmas time last
i ast week to hear W. J. Bryan spent, i year and at the time stated to the
He went from here to .lamestown.
where the spoke Thursday night.
i The first really kilting frost that has
visited Crossville this tall was on tbe
ground Saturday morning. The same
condition prevailed Sunday and Monday
: mornings also. In some parts of the
1 county frost killed roost vegetation a
week or two ago, but as Crossville is
higher than some other points it ea.
caped longer.
