$5
The Telegraph service of The
Daily Gate City and Constitu­
tion-Democrat
is received over
oir own teased wlre.^,^,-^
VOL. 123. NO. 99.
ckensen's Army Takes Cer
navoda This Morning: in
German Crushing- of
Rumanian Forces.
AN IMPORTANT VICTORY
[Rumanians Hive Retreated Nearly
Twenty Miles In Their Stampede
to Escape From the
Germans.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
BERLIN, Oct. 25. (Via Sayville.)—
(Cernavoda, eastern terminus of the
I great fourteen mile railway bridge
[crossing the Danube into Romania,
[was captured by Field Marshal Mack-
I
onsen's army this morning, it was
officially announced today. The Tic
I tory is regarded as of vastly more
I
importance than the capture of the
{seaport of Constanza three days ago.
Full details have not been received
[here, the war office announced, but
fit is believed that Russian and Ru-ltoo, that
manlan troops have been trapped
east of the Danube in Dobriidja and
I are In a very -perilous position
On the Transy]
vanian frontier
Fatkenhayn's German-Austro armies
have won another great victory, cap
turing the famous Vulkan pass.
An official statement from the Bul
garian war office tended to confirm
belief here that Russo-Romanians
have suffered a disastrous rout The
Bulgars have reached two villages
eighteen miles northwest of Con
fitanza in their rapid pursuit of the
enemy and have taken 3,250 prisoners
and large quantities of booty.
Admit Evacuation.
BUCHAREST, Oct. 25.—The war of
fice today admitted that Rumanian
troops have evacuated Cernavoda, re
tiring northward
Bulgarian Victory.
Bulgarian infantry forces have oc
cupied Medjidil (probably Medjidia).
The Belgara have captured fifty of
ficers, 3,200 men, thirty machine
guns, five locomotives and two hun
dred railway wagons.
FREE REM TO
E
Near Caramurat the Bulgars dis
persed Russian battalion numbering potatoes, peck 40
275, capturing the commander and j.ar^, lh 18
£00 men and also a Rumanian brigade
and commander.
ndpolnt, than the fan
"Way for a drive on Bucharest from
(Continued on page 2)
EXPLOSION IN SUBWAY
Crowded Cars Just Passed
When Panic Was Caused
by Roar Underground.
[United Press Leased Wire Service]
NEW YORK, Oct 25.—An explosion
in the subway at Lenox avenue and
110th street early today missed a
crowded train by two mintes, in
jured two men, rattled and broke win
dows at some distance and blocked
traffic.
Two employes were thrown a great
distance, but were not badly injured.
Stores on the street above were shak
en and in two instances robberies
were committed after the windows
had been blasted. The explosion cre
ated a panic. Men and women scant
ily dressed, rushed out to learn the
cause, while fire engines responded to
frightened calls.
Inmates of a turklsh bath, close by
the subway, hastened out of their
cots, en-deshabille, completing their
Government Not to Take Ac
tion on Food Prices, Unless
There be Actual Famine
or War.
BT»AME IT ON THE WAR
Prosperity and High Cost of Living
Always Go Together and Drop
is Predicted—
Sometime.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
WASHINGTON, Oct. 25.—There wUl
be no regulation of exports or of food
prices in this country, barring actual
famine or war. except to prevent il
legal combinations. This statement
was made today by a high adminis
tration authority. Assed whether in
view of the high cost of living and
the admission that it is caused pri
marily by the unprecedented exports,
regulation of exports and food prices
might be possible this official replied:
"Possible, but highly improbable."
Administration officials blame the
high cost of living on the war and
the resulting demand of Europe for
SOFIA. Oct. 2o—"Our right wing percent in the oost of staple foods
has reached Caramurat and Dokuzoa,
in
'he retailer In any event will
get his"—despite embargoes or regu
latory prices.
"Who would export regulation Tilt?"
several officials asked and then an
swer their own question thus: "The
farmer." All declared an embargo
that will hit the farmer will not be
considered. They have found no evi
dence of price Juggling and say high
prices always go with prosperity—In
itself evidence of a demand that, in
the cause of labor, boosts wages and
In the case of foodstuffs boosts prices'.
They declare wages of other classes,
those generally known as consumer
always lag behind, sad fill rise grad
ually—very gradually—with prices.
Prices, they maintain. Will drop
gradually with the end of the war or
with bigger crops and an increase in
manufactured goods.
the last two years is shown tola.
ghteen miles northwest of striking table compiled by David
Constanza," it was officially an-1 Rosenheim,
nounced today. I day.
Sugar, per lh $ .OS
Flour, per bbl 10.00
Navy beans, lb 06 to .12
Butter, lb 40
iEggs, per doz 45
Cheese, lb 30
the Bnsso-Rumanian, Notified that she had seen tentatively
AI
American wheat, flour, meat and __
goods generally—including the leather JSeCS flew Jcl'tUCi OuenSXVe
that used to go into *5 shoes now sell-
ing for a song that hits high C.
They figure that the fanner, after!. man LlUftg.
years of getting the worst of it, is
economically on top. And they figure.
.04
6.00
.03
.30
35
.20
.12 I
.20
The Vampire Failed.
missioner and tried to swear off the
assessment. Over her protest Becker
held the movie star for J5.400.
Arcade building were wrecked, tiling
was scattered in the subway and the
vaulted roof, serving as a sidewalk,
was blown out.
Inspector E)gan of the bureau
that a time bomb had been set
Reinforcements Rushed up to
Which Threatens Ger-
ADVANCE OF TWO MILES
Crown Prince Appealed for Help and
Men Were Shifted From the
Somme, But Came Too
Late.
[United Press Leased Wire
before
Preset Pile. two!
{northwest of Verdun yesterday, ac
ni complished a two fold purpose. It
I definitely removed the uerman men
ace to Verdun and it halted the mass
ing of a huge German army on the
Bapaume-Peronne line for a great
counter attack on the Somme.
The German lines were thrown
back two miles at the point where they
had made their nearest approach to
Verdun. Fort Douanmont. the village
of Couaumont and other positions
[Loss of the Cernavoda, admitted
by the Russian war office, is a more
serious blow to the Rumanians from
the military standpoint, then the fall
of Constanra.
the retreat of the Jtusso-RJumanian. tunMn nnn.! a i«xuuiiuj uu«i east vi unitM noses and oxner oisunjruisiieu pre-
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
Mpm YflRlf Oct 25 —Til ©da QflnL caniurei.
"vamnirfi oneen" of the movies.
wiles
Vanx
Buccessfnlly
the
It not only cuts ott on ^puty Tax Co^^ :m.inlng in German hands. |nl
SS:
£E2
combustibles, investigated a report positions on the Haudromont-
Says it Was a Bomb.
NEW YORK, Oct 25.—An
The battered Fort
caT,tyre.l
I Damloap line northeast of Verdun,
jwon by the French in yesterday's
great assault
explos-j Both attacks failed, the French
ion, which Inspector Egan,j* the maintaining all their positions. It was drapery of the same lace hang
Al# AAffnKtlflfiKlAfl TSfl A
bureau of combustibles declares was officially announced today. The
caused by a dynamite bomb, serieusly |?rench spent the night cleaning up
damaged the interior of a subway fort Dooanmoct captured from the
station at Lexington avenue and 110th Germans yesterday.
street today. The explosion occurred Among the 3,500 prisoners, is the
only about two minutes after a train German commander of Fort Douau-"
had passed. Windows In the vicinity,
mont
were broken and the entire neighbor
ImwvI shaken, thoosh no one was in-. rrencn Gain Ground.
fcood snaaen, BERLIN, Oct. 25.—"On the north-
Nothing was found to Indicate the east front of Verdun, a French at
nature
of the bomb. If
it
was planted tack a* far "the barning Fort
In the station, it was itself destroy E*uaumont gained ground.- the war
ed. Company officials who are
con-
offire aMoonced this afternoon,
ducting a separate investigation, re- fighting continues.
fuse to comment on reports that it wxount at the rainy weather
might have been a time device that' on the Somme sector, activity dimin
mUsed recking the subway train
ished
only because of miscalculation. John lery fire temporarily increased. In
...... «.tik. __
toilet In the hallways from bundles of! Mittlekauf told the police he saw five|the evening hocrs, partial French »f
clothing hastily gathered. All the men run from the subway sia..on
window* on the ground floor of the early today and enter Central par*. 1
$TT-
•sm
Service.]?™
PARIS, Oct. 25.—German reinforce-!
ments are being rushed up to the Ver-i
U*CU18 Oic IU9UCU up IW Ul«
1,54
d» front to tt. ... Fr»«* S
senator.
advices from
fensive. according to
the front today.
In response to the crown prince's
appeal for help, the Teutons are shift
ing regiments back from the Somme
to the Verdun front. German units
An Interesting Comparison.
CHICAGO, Oct. 25. A jump of 100 from the Somme battlefield arrived
Verdun vesterdav while the
were
smashing their way
Douaumont is the only important work occurs bv reason of the favor be-,er
northeast front of Verdun re-i8towed
A terrlfflc artillery duel east Gf
portant infantry actions were
upon the
bv
the
two and
ai a
ap-!
a
Mme
NARROWLY MISSED TRAIN:-^«s*zz
the German reclmentg could
called from the Somme.
yesterd*v. exnapt that the artn-
(Continned on page Z)
ii*
*3
anil Cifflgtftirtftm-gtonoaraL
KEOKUK, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, OCT. 25, '16
Auto Load of People
Struck?/Jy Interurban
£c~
Result is Death to Three st omen, One Man and Baby
Who Were led Into Eternity
[United Press ^eased Wire Service]
SOUTH BEND, Ind., Oct. 25.—Three woman, one man and a baby were instantly
killed today when their automobile was hit by an interurban car, about six miles north, of
here.
IS
NOW PRINCESS
"Richest Girl in New Eng
land'" Becomes Bride of
Italian Noble of Promi
nent Old Family.
FULL RITUAL WAS USED
Two Popes Came From Boncampaigni
Family, Besides Many Other
Distinguished Catholic
Prelates.
United Press Leased Wise Service.]
WA9HBW3TGK, Oct. «5.—Another
heiress became a foreign princess to
day.
Miss Margaret Preston Draper,
known as the "richest girl in New
England," became the bride of Prince
Andrea Boncompagnl of an old and
cnce wealthy Italian family. The
Italian prince, her youthful sweetheart
when her father. William F. Draper
ambassador to Italy, won her
..,y„ 1 -A V|.
defeat
Italian
snrraountins a hill southeast of states, outside or tne cnurcn. tdjs «... nmriTTifOrp
dozen dignitaries of the church took.
preaching on the Verdun front It is part tn the ceremony. Monsignor Rus-! more, she quoted
believed here that the Germans mis -^n celebrating the nuptial mass. lue S
calculated th* strength of General companT
0f
Neville's forces and stripped their:indeed Russian Ambassador and Beutinger displayed scarcely
Verdun lines past the danger point to
Bakhmeteff. Italian Ambassador
and
*«r?
wa5
the church which has received tered the iwm Mrs. Graff said, she
u.e MB,, x. 1«. U»»j
other distinguished pre- to™* Mrs. Beutinger lying across the
Bonoom-
be re- pagnC was attended by Giuseppe
Brambrflla. counsellor of the Italian
embassy. Miss Draper was on the
Two Violent Attacks. am, of William King Richardson, her
PARIS, Oct. 25.—Two violent Ger- former guardian, who gave her In mar
man counter attacks were delivered j^e
!last night and this morning against
Mlss
Draper's gown was regal, the
rose point iace had been
used on her mother's gown and her
grandmother's gown before her. The
entire bodice was formed of the lace
softened by tulle and a rarely
lovely
over the full court train. This was of
(coct!nue4 on page 2)
You Must Be
Registered
To Vote Nov. 7.
Boards in Session
Oct. 26, 27, 28 and
November 4
mw*
BEING DRIVEN BACK
Trial of Mrs. Beutinger, Who
Shot and Killed Spouse in
Bed Room of Their
Home.
HAD BEEN RECONCILED
Wealthy Coal Man and Beautiful
Wife Secured Divorce,
But Patched Up
Differences.
[By Carl D. Groat. United
Staff Correspondent]
NFJWA5RK, N X, Oct, 2R—Mrs.
Margaret Beutinger shot and killed1
her husband. Christopher, a wealthy
coal man, to escape his unwelcome
His eminence Cardinal Gibbons, per- embraces according to testimony
formed the ceremony at the home of ,°Pellin!Jlf b«a^ful
Mrs. Wm. F. Draper, the bride's moth- I^se Graff." bo" eb^er
Swore
«enarate rooms
Shortly thereafter the prince &nd senrste rooms.
princess, the tetter's soft ivory satin "When I heard the shots and ran
wedding gown replaced by a suit of
into her
wf
4
©fit
089.
600D BYE
70
Colonel Roosevelt Spoke to an
Audience of Sixteen Thous
and People Last
Evening.
ANSWERED HECKLERS
lng peculiarly Rooeeveltian as it was
at yesterday's two meetings when
Roosevelt addressed an audience of
9,000 in the afternoon and 16,000
the evening at the auditorium.
'for the Beutineerf^d h« huSblSd At the first sign of trouble through fear they will be taken by
The wedding culminated one of cu-j^^ ^ti^nj'fw the prS^u-1 Germany and at the first sign the bandit army commanding tho
pid's rarities, a genuine International
that after their reconcllia-. of trooble with Japan when I was railway
love match between a foreign noble following a divorce in 1914. Mr?. President, I put the UnitedI States in ilia sacUouta Growing up' «*rt^
and a wealthy American girl. Beutinger and her husband occupied!
dark blue and a saaSrt little toque, de- entered her "bedroom three or four tween times. awaiting either evaTOation of the city
parted on their honeymoon. Their times that night." Graff testified on- "Eat
The wedding ceremony was solem- "Did she tell you that he had tried colonel, his teeth literally snapping
as a •premeditated murder. Her face
paled slightly only when the revolver
with which she had killed her hus
band, was produced for identification.
Little white haired Billy Beutinger,
dressed in a sailor suit enjoyed the
preliminary proceedings immensely
and laughed while the assistant
prosecutor was demanding his moth
er's conviction of murder. But when
the housekeeper. Mrs. Graff, was de
scribing the tragedy in the bedroom,
his eyes filled with tears and he
sobbed audibly.
Baby Got Salary.
[fritted Press Leased Wire Service.]
NEW YORK. Oct. 25.—Mrs. Freoa
Meares' baby gurgles so gurglly that
it's worth $29 a week to the pro
ducers of "Hnsh" playing here But
the society haled Mrs. Meares as the
little one's manager to coutr In an
effort to stop the mercenary gurg
ling.
the
,n
the
bedroom, she told me he
1
du*
em
nP.
destlnation was supposed to be the cross examination. "She told Mm 'eraJ- Chihuahua Cit. is the be«t fort.Sed
old Draper homestead at Hopedale, each time to get out. she said, but the '1 think I have thoroughly masti-: rnilitarj* city stronghold in northern
Mass. last time he threatened to km her." rated that gentleman." replied the Mexico. The garrison Is estimit*^
nized in tlr© famous tapestried ball to force her to give way and submit and his face beaming with the verbal pipped with several pieces
room or the Draper mansion. It was to his embraces?" Graff was asked, combat.
celebrated in accord with the full! "Yes," he replied. Rooeevelt interpolated much into
ritual of the Roman Catholic church, Mrs. Graff testified that Mrs.,
one of the few times a full nuptial BeuUnger had left a. hospital only (Continued on page 2.1
mass was ever solemnized in the Unit, six days before the shooting on the
ed States, outside of the church. Tb/s: night of July 11. 1916, when Beuting
kiHedafter he had buret In- JMsT
house of Boncompag- Jo his wife's bedroom. When she en- lVIO 1 LH •*—1 liyunvu
"He's where he won't bother me
the woman
eighty persons attending learned that her husband was dead.
McDaniel
IS
r%- Tf j?
?f
Platform With
Occupied Speakers
Women Who Are Touring the
West in the Interest
of Hughea.
Teddy, shouted ser-, or an attack by Oeneral
A
n™b,'r
ANTIAL lDJu NvL
Finn Believer in
it, Though Prosecution Will
Push it Against Him.
[United Press Leased Wire Service] But little Odell never talks of the
ST. JOSEPH. Mo., Oct 26.—Selec- case to his brother and sister for his
tion of a jury panel may halt the mur- father has forbidden it.
der trial of Oscar McDaniel today. 1
Judge Ryan who drew the names in Clalrr* Jury is Jobbed,
the panel will wait to see the effect of, gx. JOSEPH. Mo.. Oct 25.—Follow
Attorney General Baker's Interview jn_
his wife, msy be based entirely on
circumstantial evidence, the accused
official today declared that he Is a
firm believer in It.
"Circumstantial evidence is more
reliable than some direct evidence,"
Gave $450000 to Church. eieciea. Attorney Strop told newspapermen
[United Press Leased Wire Service] McDaniel said he had sent one man that Judge Ryan's attitude in the con
CHICAGO, Oct. 25.—The largest to prison for life on circumstantial ference indicated he would dismiss
contribution for benevolent purposes evidence. the venire at two o'clock. Strop said
ever received by the Methodist Bpis- Confident of acquittal, McDaniel. if the court dismisses the venire, the
copal church Is $450,000 from the already is looking with dread into the defense will demand another venire
estate of Mrs. Ellen S. James, of New future when he must explain to the be selected immediately. The trial
McDaniel said he had sent one man
for life on
York, it wis made known here today. 1 two younger children that he stood judge stated if he dismissed the ve
She made other large gifts during her trial, charged with murdering
lite time and in her wilL mother.
a
of the jury. Although the state has ^e state and defense in the McDaniel
intimated that its case against Mc- murder ease, relative to the demand
Daniel, charged with the murder of
SF.if'J"'W
THE WEATHER
Fair. Warmer Thursday. Lo
cal temp—7 p. m. 52 7 a.
42.
.Garrison at Chihuahua City is
Expected to Evacuate With
out Much Shoiw of
Resistance.
A SHORTAGE OiF RIFLES
[By J. P. Yoder, United Press Staff
Correspondent]
DENVER, Colo., Oct 35.—Colonel
Rooeevelt started the last leg of his
Hughes campaign tour today, with
one more scheduled speech on his}
program—an address that he has
labeled his 100 per cent American
ism" message. As lie went ten days
ago Into Wilkesbarre—Pennsylvania's
greatest labor center—to denounce
the Adam
son law, so he turned Chi- [United Press Leased Wire Servlce-T
cagoward today to denounce in the EL PASO, Texas, Oct 25.—The city
mid-western meitropolis—comprising of Chihuahua, capital of northern
perhaps America's most polyglot pop- Mexico, is virtually In a state of siege
ulattoo—"SOW allegiance—to the today. On the southern and western
stars and stripes. sides of the city, about five miiMi
Residents of Town Are P» le Stride
en at Weakness of Troops
and Closeness of the
Bandit Gang.
The colonel left Denver today at 9 from the outskirts, heavy forces of"
o'clock over the Union Pacific with Villistas are entrenched. The reji
auto horns honking and Denver's! dents of the city are almost pa£lc
whistles tied down. was a second stricken. fearing another attack.:
"Teddy day." The enthusiasm be-
United States government authorities
learned today
During yesterday, numerous sklr
mishes occurred between small de
ln tachments of bandits and Car ansa
troops. Meantime the Villlstas were!
Roosevelt was never in better throwing np trenches and digging
Jtorm Ifca* *t thee* two meetings.) rifle pHn. .QnElng• no farther at
He was admitted!v glad of the oppor- on the city except to repel attacks,
tunity which placed him In Denver at! An evacuation of the city by the
the same time that the Hughes worn-{Mexican defacto government
en campaigners arrived here for he within a short time Is expected by
had previously expressed a desire to United Statos department officials
meet the Hughes woman's special, to here. General Trevlno, commanding
I
join with them in their efforts for the Carrania garrison In Chihuahua
[the republican candidate. And what City, is suffering from a serious
I he enjoyed as much as meeting the shortage of rifle ammunition and tho
women campaigners was the heck-1 garrison lacks sufficient cartridges to
ling which greeted him at the start withstand a determined assault, See
of his speech last night lng citizens declare. A large quan
When shouts of "throw him ow"'|Uty of ammunitions and rifles sent
greeted questions of "whit would out with General Ozuna's column last
vou have' done," Roosevelt, looking! week when Oxuna set out to attack
toward the gallery where policemen! the bandit chief, was captured by tho
were hustling out the interrupters, Villlstas when Ozuna column was
shouted: "Don't put him out. Let! routed. Supplies of ammunition ex
me answer him. Ill tell him what I' pected from the south are held up
worlds navies works outside Chibuahoa aty puaies
P°ilH efficiency. Then I sent: military men here. By many it is
..., ,,
battleship fleet around the world believed he is equipping his men
the Panama canal in be- wjthi newly^ Mptured muniUons and
!r?*,ft\.il" 1
EIGHT PAGES
'7
'•I
M"
1|
If
Lveral^ecea ol!
famous seventy-fives artillery.
Authorities on the border regard
(Continued on page 2.)
*TrpT A fT'T 7TTMTXT/0'17*
IN THE MURDER TRIAL
His children, OdeL, aged 12 Helen.
8 a a 6 a re is so
of strength. Odel knows the story ot
the crime. Each night when hia
father returns home, he discusses the
case.
"Daddy, why don't you have th«
truth put in the newspapers is
Odel's constant question.
private session with counsel for
0f Vhe
lB
defense for an investigation of
interview quoting Attorney Gener-
al Barker as saying the jury was
"jobbed," Judge Ryan announced &
recess until 2 o'clock in order to con
sider the situation. Attorneys in th®
case declared their bMlef that the
he explained. "If I close my eyes, present jury would be discharged and
and step into the street when it is the case continued. When Judge Ry
rainlng, I know rain is falling without
an
seeing It But I have seen many wit- strop demanded the point at Issue bo
nesses perjure themselves. My pres- threshed out in open court.
ent predicament will not influence
my future prosecution of criminals on
circumstantial evidence, if I am re
elected."
announced the adjournment. Judge
"I am not deciding the case now,
said Judge Ryan. "I wish to consider
the situation."
their jnire, it would be because he feared it
ihad been Influenced by the sttnattaik
1
