liP^T" 'lu ^a^w-W'f'K"1
N
Historical BodjM
MUl**80**
VOLUME XXXVII.
GOVERNOR ANXIOUS
ABOUT MEN'S VOTE
BURNQUIST SENDS TELEGRAMS
OF INQUIRY TO MEMBERS OF
LEGISLATURE.
SEEKS PUBLIC SENTIMENT ON
PLAN OF GIVING TROOPS
A VOTE.
Governor J. A. A. Bumquist yesterday
£jfi'nt members of the legislature tele
/tgrams asking them in regard to the sen
timent in their respective districts rela
tive to a special session to act on a
measure allowing the boys on the Mexi
can border the right to vote. Repre
sentative Alfred W. Mueller received the
iollowing message from the Governor:
"What is special session sentiment in
your district9 Do you favor such ses
sion?"
Mr. Mueller wired in reply:
"Special session discussed very little
here. Personally I am in favor of
giving boys at front an opportunity to
cast their vote."
Governor Burnquist is expected to
reach a decision not later than this
(Wednesday) morning.
President G. A. Ottomeyer of the
New Ulm Commercial Club has refused
to call a meeting of the club for the pur
pose of urging Governor Burnquist to
^summon the state legislature in special
session to enact a law enabling the sol
diers at the Mexican border the right
to vote. Requests have come from
Twin City commercial bodies requesting
such action. Mr. Ottomeyer, however,
did not ignore the request until he had
discussed the question with other officers
and members ot the club. He found
there was no demand for such action
and let it drop.
"I have no wish to deprive our boys
in Texas of the right to cast their ballots,
if they so desire," said Mr. Ottomeyer,.
"Jsat as I understand it none of them have
TnaiJe any such request, and if they don't
care why should the state go to the
great expense of calling the law-makers
together just to please the Twin Cities
and a lot of politicians. They seem
to be about the only ones interested."
Governor Burnquist is quoted as
having said that he would be willing to
call a special session if there had been
a demand from the soldiers themselves
bu* as long as they were not seeking this
Special legislation he could not see no
of forcing it upon them.
At the time when the Civic and Com
merce Association of Minneapolis was
taking its last stand toward calling the
ssion the Governor was acting as best
5
an at a wedding in Glenwood, Minn.
fter his return to St. Paul he failed to
ow up at the capitol and the men who
ere to make the plea went away crest
-.llen.
REMOVAL OF MONUMENT IS
LIKELY TO BE ABANDONED
Agitation for the removal of the
Indian monument from its present
location at the intersection of Center
and State Streets has apparently died
down and the proposition may be aban
doned. The plan appears to have met
with considerable opposition, from the
older citizens, and especially from the
surviving defenders of New Ulm, who
were active in establishing the present
location.
While the proposed removal would
have taken the monument but a short
distance from its present location, the
older citizens feel that it should not be
disturbed, and in deference to their
wishes it will probably remain whepe it
is. Many who favored the removal at
first have changed their position in the
matter since learning the feeling of the
defenders and others of the older citizens.
OWL ORGANIZER IS SLICK
An alleged organizer of the Order of
Owls, a fraternal organization, is said
to be pulling off some very slick stunts
in some of the Southern Minnesota
towns. He was at Waterville and Mont
gomery recently, where he filched num
erous $5 bills from the "easy" ones.
He is also alleged to have left numerous
unpaid bills at both places. Look out
for him.
Rural school consolidation is now dis
cussed seriously by the people of Hanska,
the proposition to unite the districts of
ih Banska, Lake Hanska and Linden being
-jnsidered. The Commercial Club of
chat place held a public meeting there
•y Friday evening, when the sentiment
seemed largely in favor of the plan pro
posed.
«&&£.&&i h^M 4 £'**, u.. *i ,*» ,?. &*L> -d*&•*>»' Jil*.
KIRMES AT MINNEAPOLIS.
This week is Kirmes week in Minne
apolis. Beginning with Monday and
lasting to and including Saturday the
28th, the German societies and churches
of Minneapolis are giving a grand bazaar
for the benefit of the German and Austro
Hungarian Red Cross. This is the first
time in the history of the metropolis of
the State that all of the German Societies,
irrespective of their religious and other
views are working in harmony for a
common cause. Before the doors of the
St. Anthony Turner Hall where this
grand Kirmes Fest is being given, opened
Monday morning, there was already in
the Treasury almost $5,000 which had
been received in the shape of donations.
Those who have charge of the affair are
very enthusiastic over the outcome. New
Ulm is represented at the Kirmes with a
booth. A beautiful doll was donated by
several ladies from here. This will be
raffled off and quite a number of chances
were sold here before the doll was sent
away.
SOCIALISTS TO ORGANIZE LOCAL
Last Sunday evening the socialists
held a social at Woodmen's Hall for the
purpose of organizing a local here. Nellie
M. Zay was here for that purpose and
feels greatly encouraged over the pros
pects of organizing a very active local
here and as a consequence is looking
forward to several months of activity in
our midst as she expects to conduct a
school not only for the men but also for
the women for the purpose of teaching
them the principles and aim of socialism.
SLEEPY EYE STORE
ROBBERS CAPTURED
SHERIFF BRINGS BOYS FROM
ILLINOIS FOR SLEEPY EYE
THEFT
SAY THEY WILL PLEAD GUILTY
AND TAKE THEIR SENTENCE
AT ONCE.
Sheriff William J. Julius went to
Rockford, 111., Thursday night and re
turned Saturday with two of the men
accused of robbing Glotzbach & Clau
sen's store at Sleepy Eye on the night
of October 14. They are Clifford Henry,
aged 19, and Robert Loftus, 22, both
of whom reside at Rockford, Ilhonois.
Willing to Return.
Sheriff Julius had received informa
tion that the two young men were under
arrest and had confessed to the police
that they had assisted in the robbery.
They were willing to come to Minnesota
without requisition papers.
The Sleepy Eye store had been robbed
of about $150 worth of merchandise in
a most unusual manner and the sheriff
feels that this county has been exceeding
ly fortunate in rounding up the thieves
at so little cost to the tax payers. There
is, however, a third man involved in the
Sleepy Eye robbery who has not yet
been caught,, according to the prisoners
brought from Rockford and now in the
county jail, waiting to be arraigned in
district court.
The two young men were arraigned
before a justice of the peace in Sleepy
Eye Monday afternoon, waived examina
tion and grand jury action, and ex
pressed their intention of pleading guilty
in district court and receiving sentence
at once.
Bore Good Reputation.
It is said at Rockford the boys have
heretofore borne a good reputation. It
appears that some months ago they
joined an amusement company and have
been playing at street fairs and kindred
affairs during the summer, and were
with their company at Sleepy Eye during
the inter-county fair there a couple of
weeks ago. It was while there, they
told the officer that they were induced
to take a hand in the robbery, receiving
for their share only each a suit of clothes
and a pair of shoes.
The story of the robbery as told by the
Sleepy Eye merchants is as follows:
On the afternoon preceeding the rob
bery two strangers entered the store and
purchased a quantity of clothing and
other merchandise, which they left,
with the statement that they would re
turn for them later, it being understood
that they would pay for their purchases
at that time. They failed to show up
that day, however, and the goods were
left where they had been placed follow
ing the sale. When opening the store
the following morning it was discovered
that the entire outfit, along with other
(Continued on Page 7.)
bj±^M&&irf®^Mk$W^^ 1^J,^i,.^
GALA DAY IN NEW
ULM FORK. OFG.
SEVENTY-THREE CANDIDATES
INITIATED INTO ORDER
SUNDAY.
OVER 350 KNIGHTS FEAST AT
BANQUET FOLLOWING THE
CEREMONY.
Seventy-three new members were
initiated into the mysteries of the Knights
of Columbus by St. Patrick's Council,
No. 1076, last Sunday afternoon. It
was a gala day for the order in this
part of the state and was the result of a
lot of hard work just completed by
Grand Knight H. J. Berg of St. Patrick's
Council.
The work was witnessed by a large
number of Knights from various parts
of this and surrounding counties. Of
the number initiated forty-six became
associate members of the ord'er and
twenty-seven took the insurance feature.
Dist. Deputy Exemplifies Work.
The first degree was conducted by the
team belonging to St. Patrick's Council
of this city the second by a team from
Faribault, while the third degree was
exemplified by the District Deputy Mor
iarity and his staff of Mankato.
Of those initiated at Sunday's session
the new members are from the following
cities: New Ulm, 11 Sleepy Eye, 10
Sanborn, 5 Springfield, 7 Redwood
Falls, 5 Comfrey, 14 Wanda, 5 Wa
basso, 4 Lamberton, 8 Ivanhoe, 3
Waseca 1.
St. Patrick's Council now has a mem
bership of 382, of which 284 are associate
members and 98 are in the insurance
department. In addition to the seventy
three who were initiated Sunday there
were eight more applicants who had been
passed upon and accepted, but were
unable to be present at the session on
that day. They will be initiated later.
'_ Many Attend Banquets ,-
Following the initiation ceremony 350
members of the order were served at a
banquet. The principal speakers at
this function were Rev. Fr. Hughes,
Mankato Rev. Fr. Scholzen, Bird
Island Rev. Fr. Norrrayle, Lamberton
John H. Nightengale, Minneapolis J.
E. Regan, ankato.
Rev. Robert Schlinkert acted as toast
master. The program was opened with
music by Gruenenfelder's Orchestra.
Miss Irene Forster of Springfield and
Miss Florence Baer of this city, played
several piano numbers and Henry Fori
of Mankato, sang a solo.
Officers Are Installed,
Monday night the following officers of
St. Patrick's Council were installed at a
regular meeting of the council:
Grand night, Henr^ J. Berg deputy
grand night, John Lauden chancellor,
Hugh Walters recorder, Carl P. Mander
feld financial secretary, Edward J.
Berg chaplain, Rev. Robert Schlinkert
treasurer, Robert Fesenmaier lecturer,
Frank W. Kosek advocate, Albert E.
Flor warden, Albert L. Gag inner
guard, Frank Eckert, outer guard, Frank
L. Seifert trustees, Carl P. Eichten,
William A. Pfefferle and John Brey.
District Deputy J. J. Moriarity of
Mankato, was the installing officer.
The ceremony was followed by a luncheon
served by the members of the council.
"SUCKERS" ARE NUMEROUS.
Twenty-five thousand letters, each
containing a silver dime, were received
at the Minneapolis post office Monday,
the result of the work of the "petticoat
man," whose office disappeared from
the Mill City a short time ago. The
victims are scattered all over the United
States. They had joined the "endless
chain" proposition, promoted by the
so-called National Brokerage Exchange,
which had offices in Mfnneapolis, by
which persons contributing 10 cents
and writing letters to five friends were
to receive a silk petticoat of the 1917
model. The Minneapolis postmaster
says the work has become serious. "So
voluminous has the daily influx become,"
he said, "the dead letter office is be
coming clogged.
DIDN'T KNOW HIS OWN FORD
A story is being told on a Lamberton
man who went to the county fair. He
lost his car in the crowd as he could not
tell it from any other Ford, so he waited
until all the other Ford drivers had gone
home and then took the one left and
returned to Lamberton. Lamberton
Star.\
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, OCT. 25, 1916.
iAlifeV^y£Si^,^S „N
ASYLUM PATIENT
ESCAPES: KILLED
MILFORD WOMAN STRUCK BY A
TRAIN NEAR NICOLLET ON
SUNDAY.
DIES A FEW HOURS LATER AT
THE LORETTO HOSPITAL
HERE.
Mrs. Anna Krause, formerly of Mil
ford township, an inmate of the State
Hospital at St. Peter for the past twenty
two years, escaped from that institution
last Saturday night, and on the following
day was struck by a Northwestern train
about two miles west of Nicollet station,
and died a few hours later at the Loretto
hospital in this city, where she was
brought, following the accident. Sun
day morning the sheriff's office received
a telephone message from the St. Peter
hospital, notifying the officials here of
Mrs. Krause's escape, with the request
that an attempt be made to locate her.
The message said it' was believed the
woman was attempting to make her way
back to her old home in Milford.
Sent to Hospital.
Later Sheriff Julius was notified that
Mrs. Krause had been injured and was
being brought here on the afternoon
train from St. Peter. He met the train
and had her taken to the hospital and
she died early that evening. The body
was taken to the undertaking rooms of
E. F. Buenger, where it was prepared
for burial. A step-sister, Mrs. William
Geske of Milford, was notified, and came
to New Ulm Monday to arrange for the
funeral.
Mrs. Krause, who was 57 years old,
was born in Wisconsin, and came with
her parents to Milford township when
a small child, and had lived there until
she was committed to the asylum in 1894.
Her maiden name was Anna Sachs. She
had been twice married, her first husband
being John Ortwein, who died many
years ago. "Her present husband, Albert
Krause, now lives at Sleepy Eye, and is
care-taker of the Catholic cemetery, at
that place. Besides her husband and
step-sister, she leaves two sons and a
daughter. One of the sons lives on a
farm near Sleepy Eye, another in South
Dakota, and the daughter is a resident
of Minneapolis. Two sisters and a
brother live in the state of Washington.
The funeral will be held in Milford
today.
YOU MUST REGISTER TO
CAST VOTE NOVEMBER 7
The last registration day before the
election of November 7, will be next
Tuesday, October 31, when registration
boards at all of the election precincts
will be in session from 9 a.„m. until 9
p. m. Those who voted at the primaries
in June -will not be obliged to register at
this time. You cannot vote if you have
not lived -in your election precinct at
least thirty days prior to November 7.
If you have moved within thirty days
you cannot procure a transfer certificate,
which is provided by law. If you have
moved between the primary election
day and previous to the thirty-day
limit, which this year will be on October
8 you will be entitled to a transfer cer
tificate.
BANKERS GIVEN WARNING.
C. D. Brown, secretary of the pro
tective department of the Minnesota
Bankers' Association, has sent out a
warning to all bankers in the state, ap
prising them of the presence of pro
fessional bank robbers in this part of the
country. The action was taken follow
ing the robbing of a bank at Millville,
North Dakota, and another at Eckman,
in the same state, and an attempt to
enter a similar institution at Dresser
Junction, Wis. all within the past ten
days. At Millville the robbers secured
$2,500 and $500 at Eckman. The build
ing at Dresser Junction was entered but
the thieves were evidently frightened
away without securing any booty. In
his circular letter to the banks, Mr.
Brown says:
"We are expecting bank robberies,
both burglaries and holdups, at this time
of the year. We want Minnesota bank
ers to take every precaution. Various
police officers are asked to assist. We
haven't had a description of this last set
of burglars. Minnesota banks have
escaped them so far."
Gilbert H. Texley, a pioneer merchant
of St. James, died at that place last week.
He began the mercantile business at
that place forty-nine years ago.
HEAVY SNOW-FALL HERE
Not since October 17, 1S80, has there
been so heavy a fall of snow so early in'
the season as that which visited this
section last Thursday and Friday. Ac
cording to A. L. Henle, in charge of the
weather bureau here, five and one-half
inches fell between Thursday morning
and Friday noon. The snow did not
last long, and was practically all gone in
two or three days, and but for the fact
that the weather turned much colder
after the snow had ceased there would
not have been much trace of it on the
following day.
Not so with the 1880 fall, however,
for that year it remained all winter.
NEW ULM MAN IS HONORED
AT MINNEAPOLIS MEETING
William Pfaender, Jr., of this city
was elected second vice presindent of
the Minnesota League of Local Building
and Savings Associations at its annual
meeting in Minneapolis last week.
Other officers chosen were: President,
D. G. Willard, Mankato first vice pres
ident, H. L. Shirley, Breckenndge
secretary-treasurer, F. L. Wilson, Still
water executive committee, President
Willard, Secretary Wilson, John J. Mc
Hale, Minneapolis Robert Hannah,
Fergus Falls C. L. Hill, Albert Lea.
The program which followed an ad
dress of welcome by President Willard,
included an address on the Dayton
(Ohio) Plan, by Mr. Pfaender.
The convention is reported as having
been the most successful the history
of the organization.
GREAT AUDIENCES
AT GRAND OPERAS
ELLIS GRAND OPERA COMPANY
PLAYS BRIEF SEASON
IN CITIES
IL TROVOTORE AND CARMEN
DELIGHT ENTHUSIASTIC
AUDIENCES
(Special to the Review)
Only two operas, Carmen and II
Trovatore, were given to the music
loving public of the Noithwest by the
transitory Ellis Opera Company at the
St. Paul Auditorium last Friday and
Saturday night, but in these two the
public had an opportunity of hearing
by far the finest musical talent in the
country. It was rare opportunity of
hearing the world's most wonderful
voices, made so familiar to all 'through
the medium of "canned music", and the
fact that for both performances, every
seat in the house from the last row
suspended midway between heaven and
earth, "only a little ldwer than the
angels", down to the $100. box tenanted
by the "first of the four hundred," was
sold out a week before the night of the
performance shows that the dear public
really does appreciate good music.
It was "highbrow stuff", in the class of
"Bawstonian culchuh" and Ibsenian
drama, but every victim from those
who saved their pennies for the last seat
in the last row down to those* who
walked into $6. comps, left with their
hearts full of thanks for Mr. C. A. Ellis
of Boston, and an inspiration that will
last for some time to come.
Friday was Carmen night. Geraldine
Farrar was a most captivating repre
sentation of Bizet's cigaret girl, although
to the scoop artist of The Review the
make-up of her voice was a slight dis
appointment. It was clever, without a
doubt, colored and darkened to suit
the character of the warm-hearted,
temperamental southern Spanish beauty,
but for one accustomed to the rich
purity of Farrar's voice it was hard to
believe that this voice came from the
same throat. Helen Stanley, as Micaela,
won the hearts of the hearers with her
sincere interpretation of the beautiful
Micaela music. Her voice is clear and
pure and sweet, and exactly suited to
her role. Alma Peterson, the talented
St. Paul girl, made her bow to her home
city in the character of Fransquita, and
the ease and grace with which she sang
this delightful music left no doubt of the
reason for her universal popularity.
Lucien Muratore and Clarence White
hill, in the characters of Don Jose and
Escammillo were both magnificent singers
and only fair actors, which is a situation
only too common in Grand Opera. The
universally known Toreador Song was
Clarence WhitehiH's big number. The
minor parts were taken by such well
known singers as Rita Fornia, Leon
(Continued on Page 7.)
ACCUSED COMFREY
BURGLARS CAUGHT
MEN CAPTURED IN ST. PAUL
CHARGED WITH BREAKING
INTO STORE.
TELEGRAM FROM SLEEPY EYE
LEADS TO THE ARREST
OF THREE.
Friday, the thirteenth, got in itsr
deadly work when a telegram sent from
Sleepy Eye, Minn., by a man to his wife
at Sioux-City, Iowa, brought about
his arrest and that of two others, accused
of robbing the general store of Enckson
& Kisro at Comfrey, on that nights
The men were arrested in St. Paul Friday
morning, October 20, about twelve hours
less than one week after the robbery had!
been committed. All three of the men
Vere brought from St. Paul Saturday
night and lodged in the Brown county
jail. They are booked as follows:
Harry Donaldson, alias James Murphy
aged 28, occupation, steel worker
James Burns, 32, brakeman Robert
Donaldson, alias "Kid" Donaldson, alias
George Krous, aged 19, box maker.
Response to Circular.
Following the robbery at Comfrey
Sheriff William J. Julius and Deputy
Sheriff H. F. Jahnke sent out circulars
notifying officers of the robbery, de
scribing the stolen property and offering
a reward of $100 for information that
would lead to the arrest and conviction
of the robbers. In response to one of
these circulars Sheriff Julius received a
telegram from J. B. Richards, chief of
detectives at Sioux City, to the effect
that one "Art Henderson, alias Harry
Donaldson, alias James Murphy, whpse
home is at Fort Dodge, Iowa, sent a tele
gram from Sleepy Eye, to his wife, here,
dated October 13, telling her to meet
him in St. Paul." The Sioux City
detective declared in his telegram to the
sheriff that he believed the Fort Dodge
man was the one who committed the
robbery. The telegram from Sleepy'
Eye was sent during the day preceding
the robbery.
The St. Paul authorities were im
mediately communicaced with and
Murphy, with the other aliases, alleged
sender of the telegram was located.
He was under surveilance of St. Paul
detectives from Monday afternoon until
Friday morning, the officers waiting,
until his alleged accomplices could be
rounded" up, when the three men were
placed under arrest, taken to jail and
the sheriff's office here notified. Deputy
Sheriff Jahnke left for St. Paul Friday
afternoon and returned Saturday with
the prisoners.
Prepared For Trouble.
The two older men were taken into
custody in their rooms at the Spalding
hotel, on Wabasha street, St. PauL
With them were three women, all of
whom were taken to the police station,,
but later released, there being nothing
to connect them with the crime. One
of them was the wife of Murphy, who
had met him in St. Paul, in compliance
with her husband's telegraphic request.
The others are said to have been merely
women of the street.
While the prisoners had no opportunity
to communicate with any one from the
time of their arrest until they were landed
at the St. Paul police station, they were
met on their arrival there by an attorney
who said he had been retained to defend
them.
The robbers of the Comfrey store are
believed by the St. Paul police to be a.
part of a regularly organized gang, with
headquarters in the capital city, the
head and guiding hand of which is sc*
shrewd that he has long been able to*
"keep out of the law's clutches.
The men are charged with robbing a
store and also stealing an automobile.
The car, a Ford of the 1916 model, driven
by the men, is now in the hands of the St.
Paul police and they are now in com
munication with the manufacturers to
learn to whom that particular car was
sold and to what place it was shipped.
Label Tells Tale.
Of the stolen property only twenty
four neckties and four pairs of men's
shoes were recovered. One tell-tale
label, marked "Erickson & Kisro, Cloth
iers, Comfrey, Minn." was left on a
necktie. All the others had been re
moved, but the thread marks on the
inside of the remaining twenty-three ties
bore silent evidence of their removal.
With the other plunder found in
Murphy's room at the hotel where the
men were arrested was a kit of burglars*
tools, consisting chiefly of five skeleton
keys made from ordinary wire nails, and
(Continued on page 2)
¥2P
V5*?"
NUMBER 45
*4
1
^4i
fQ
S
9
3t
tH
k&
