TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 189.
BARRE. VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1910.
PRICE, OXE CEXT.
THE BAJRJRE
DAILY
FRENCH RETAIN
GREAT GAINS ON
VERDUN FRONT
German Counter-Attacks at
Two Points Failed to
Shake French Hold After
Latter Won Great Victory
on a Line Four and One
Half Miles Long
AUSTRIAN WORKS
WERE BOMBARDED
DOUAUMONT FORT
AND THIAUMONT
General Neville, Command
ing Officer for the French,
Made a Sudden Offensive
and Literally Broke Ger
man Line, Taking Thou
sands of Prisoners as
They Advanced
French and Italian Seaplanes Made At
tack on West Coast of Istria and
Escaped Unscathed.
Rome. Tuesday, via Paris, Wednesday,
Oct. 2i. Squadrons of Italian and
French seaplanes have bombarded Aus
trian military works in three places on
the west coast of Istria and escaped un
scathed, says the official announcement
to-day.
An aerial battle between French hy
droplanes mid Austrian seaplanes, in
which one Austrian machine capsized and
another fell into a lagoon at Baseleghe,
on the Italian coast near Carole, was also
reported. The Austrian squadron had
been throwing bombs on Caorle.
BOMB SET OFF
.NEAR STATION
Caused Considerable Dam
age in a New York
Street To-day
TRAIN HAD JUST LEFT
THE PLATFORM
Paris, Oct. 25. Verdun, long lost sight
of, sprang suddenly to-day into the fore
front of the public mind as the result of
yesterday's victory. The German front
on the right bank of the Meuse was lit
erally swept away for a distance of four
and one-half miles. In three hours the
French recaptured the ground to gain
which the Germans spent many months,
including such positions as Douaumont
fort and Thiaumont.
General Neville for weeks past had
been watching the German movements
carefully, calculating the effect of every
withdrawal of troops for transfer to the
Somme and eastern fronts. At the same
time he quietly made preparations and
when he judged the Germans to be
thinned to the danger point he struck
like lightning. The French official ac
count of the battle does not say that the
German lines were forced back, but that
they burst. '
The German commander of Fort Dou
aumont was among the prisoners taken
by the French. Preliminary report of
the prisoners placed the number at 3,500.
The Germans made a counter attack
north of Verdun last night in an effort to
regain the ground won by the French in
yesterday's assault. They attempted to
recapture the Haudrolont quarries and
the Damloup batteries. The war office
announces that in both cases they were
defeated: ( r
Store Windows Smashed and
Several Robberies
Committed
ITALIAN ARTILLERY
FORM JUNCTION
WITH ENTENTE
Coming from Southern Albania They Met
Their Allies on the Macedonian
Front, Says Paris War
Office.
Paris, Oct. 25. On the Macedonian
front, the war office states, Italian cav
airy from southern Albania yesterday
formed a junction with tho cavalry and
artillery from the entente forces.
ENTENTE FORCES
EVACUATE TOWN
IN DOBRUDJA
VERDUN REVERSE
ADMITTED BY BERLIN
PetrogTad War Office Admits Loss of
Tchernavoda on Danube River
Von Mackensen Keeps Up
Smashing Drive.
retrograd, via London, Oct. 25. Ru
manians and Russians have evacuated
the Danube town of Tchernavoda, in Do
brudja, the war office announce! to-day.
The statement says that Field Mar
shal Von Mackensen's army is continuing
its attacks all along the Dobrudja front.
Russo-Rumanian positdns at Lake Ta-
chaul, near the Black sea coast, about
12 miles north of Constants, have also
been evacuated.
New York, Oct. 2f. The explosion of
a dynamite bomb, placed under the edge
of the platform at the 110th street sta
tion of the Lenox avenue subway line,
early this morning did considerable dam
age to the station. It smashed the tick
et agent's booth, injured four persons,
tore off a portion of a sidewalk over
head and broke windows in stores and
apartments nearby.
A subway train had left the station
two minutes before the explosion. The
employes at the station had seen no one
loitering about the place previous to the
explosion. Several stores in the vicinity
were robbed when windows were shat
tered by the concussion. The explosion
was heard a mile away.
McCORMICK AGAIN SUED.
16 ENTENTE PLANES
WERE BROUGHT DOWN
But Official Statement Says That French
Attacks on Somme Front Were
Without Success.
Berlin, by wireless, Oct. 25. The war
oflice announced to-day that an attack
made on the Verdun front by the French
yesterday gained ground for them, but
the French assaults on the Somme front
were without success.
Vulcan pass on the Transylvania front
has been captured by General Von Falk
enhayu's army, the war oflice states. In
Dobrudja the pursuit of the Russians
and Rumanians continues. Tchernavoda
was captured this morning, depriving the
Russians and Rumanians of their last
railroad communication in Dobrudja.
DOUAUMONT FELL
BEFORE INTREPID
RUSH OF FRENCH
Berlin Declares That 500 Air Raids Were
Made On Anglo-French Posi
tions on a Single Day.
Berlin, via wireless.fi Oct. 25. German
aeroplanes on the Somme front made
more than 500 raids on Anglo-French po
sitions Oot. 22, says the Overseas agen
cy. I here were zvv aerial rights between
(iernian airmen and the entente allied
fliers on this day, and, according to the
news agency, it is stated with certain-
Jeremiah A. O'Leary, Charging Libel,
Wants $100,000 Damages.
Xew York. Oct. 25. Vance C. MeCor-
miek, chairniHii of the Democratic na
tional committee, was served yesterday
with a summons and complaint in a sec
ond suit for libel brought against him
hv Jeremiah A. O Leary, one of the heads
of the American Independence confer
ence. The action, which is for $100,000,
is based on a statement Mr. McCormick
is said to have given to the newspapers
on Monday. This statement, it was as
serted, was in connection with charges
by the Democratic national committee
that a secret agreement was made be
tween O Leary and his associates and
Charles K. Hughes, Republican presiden
tial nominee, by which Mr. Hughes made
speeches to conform to "demands" of the
American Indcnpendenee conference.
O'Leary 's first suit against the chair
man of the Democratic national commit
tee was based on a statement Mr. Mc
Cormick was said to have made concern
ing O'Leary after the latter had sent
a telegram to President Wilson criticis
ing his administration. The president
AMERICANS KILLED
IN AN UPRISING
IN SAN DOMINGO
Number Includes Two Officers Another
Officer Wounded Rebel General
Ramon Batista Also
Killed.
San Domingo, Oct. 25. In an eniracre.
merit between American troops and rebel
forces yesterday General Ramon Batista
was killed. Several Americans are also
reported killed, including two officers and
one American oflicer wounded.
The names of the officers killed are
given as Captains William Low and At-
wood. Lieutenant Morrison wag wound
ed.
The American eommander attempted
to arrest General Batista, who resisted
anil ordered an attack on the American
forces. Fighting continued for a consid.
erablc time, but the rebels eventually
were defeated.
The engagement took place opposite
Santo Domingo City and caused some
what of a panic in the capital. Rein
forcements were sent there to aid Amer
ican troops in maintaining order. The
number of killed aind wounded in the
fight is at present not known.
Captain Low Was New Hampshire Man.
Washington,, D. ft, Oot. 25 No report
on the right in t-an Domingo had reached
the navv department last night, but of
ficials assumed that the latest outbreak
was the work of a small band of rebels
who recently revolted from the Domini
can army and that it did not presage
any general attempt at dworder.
A revolt occurred in the Dominican
army several weeks ago, but American
marines and bluejackets soon had control
of the situation. They were reinforced
with American troops from Port Au
I'rince, Haiti.
The available naval lists make no men
tion of Captain Atwood, who is reported
as having been killed-
Cant. William W. Low was attached to
the first brigade of marines stationed re
eently at Port Au Prince. He was a na
tive of Xew Hampshire. He was appoint
ed to the marine corps from Connecticut
in 1809 and was 47 years old.
Lieut. Victor I. Morrison is listed as
attached to the first brigade of marines
WHEAT SHOOTS
UP FIVE CENTS
December Delivery Touched
$1.84 in Chicago
. To-day
BUYING DONE ON
IMMENSE SCALE
Reported Drouth Damage in
Argentina Was the
Chief Cause
MORE GASOLINE
PUMPS ON STREET
WAS ACQUITTED.
After Tried for Practicing in Vermont
Without License.
St. Albans, Oct. 25. At a hearing held
before City Judge X. X. Post at the
county court house yesterday, Frank K
Bcmis of North Main street a chiroprac
tor, who was arraigned on the charge of
practicing medicine and surgery without
a license, was found not guilty after a
jury trial. J he jury returned ita ver
diet after considering the matter about
seven minutes, States Attorney S. S.
Cushing prosecuted and Bemis was rep
resented bv Fred H. Hartwell of the firm
of Morris and Hartwell of LaCrosse,
Wis., and by M. H. Alexander of this
city. This. was the second similar prose
cution in the matter. Judge Post having
replied, in substance, to O'Leary that he ruW tJlp former Jrial, after, a full
would "feel deeply mortified" if O'Leary
or anybody "like you" voted for him.
MEXICANS WARNED
OUT OF CHIHUAHUA
Gen. Trevino Is Said to Have Told Them
to Leave His Wife is Said to
Have Reached El Paso.
San Antonio, Tex., Oct. 25. General
Jacinto Trevino, commandant at the Chi
huahua garrison, has issued a warning
tythat in the Somme sector alone more to residents to leave the city, accord
than 18 entente aeroplanes were shot i na to a report which reached armv head-
down, ounrters from General Hell at El Pao.
Gen. Bell said that Mrs. Trevino was
among the refugee who have arrived
from Chihuahua.
RUMANIANS FALL BACK.
Bucharest Admits Reverses on Transyl
vanian Front.
Bucharest, via London, Oct. 25. Fur
ther retirement by the Rumanian forces
on the Transylvanian front was an
nounced by the war office to-day. Ru
manians near Predeal and Kimpolung,
the statement says, were forced to fall
back a little.
Losses of the Attackers Were Compara
tively Light, But French Captured
Large Numbers of Germans
on 4l2-Mile Front.
Paris, Oct. 25. In a powerful series
of attac on the Verdun front the
French have captured the village of Dou
aumont advanced beyond the Thiaumont
work and farm and occupied also the
Haiidroinont quarries north of Verdun,
according to the bulletin issued by the
war office last night. The prisoners cap
tured and counted thus far number 3500.
The text says:
"On the Verdun front after Intense
artillery preparation an attack on the
right bank of the Mense was launched
at 11:40 o'clock in the morning. The en
emy line attacked on the front of seven
kilometers (four and one-half miles) was
broken through everywhere to a depth
which at the center attained a distance
of three kilometers (nearly two miles).
"The village and fort of Douaumont
are in our hands.
"To the left, our troops advancing be
yond the Thiaumont work and farm
rushed the Haiidroinont quarries and es
tablished themselves along the road from
Bras to Douaumont.
"On the right of the fort our line runs
to north of I -a Callette wood along the
western outskirts of the village of Vaux
and the eastern border of Flumin wood
and continues to north of Chenoia wood
anil the Damloup battery.
"Prisoners are pouring in. So far. 3.
.V0 including about loo officers, have
been counted. The quantity of material
raptured cannot yet be estimated. Our
losses nere stua.lL" i
RUSSIAN CASUALTIES.
Berlin Declares They Were 1,797,522
Since June 1.
Berlin, Oct. 25. There have been 1,-
797,522 casualties in the Russian army
since June 1, according to the latest re
ports made public by the central iden
tification office at Kiev, says an Over
seas agency statement to day.
"Included in this number," contains
the statement, "are 85,081 officers."
CARRANZA MAY PLAN FLIGHT.
PADEREWSKI CAST SPELL
BRITISH STEAMER SUNK,
The Framfield of 2500 Tons War Victim,
Reports Lloyds.
London, Oot. 25. Lloyds announces
that the British steamer Framfield of
2500 tons has been sunk. The steamer
was last reported at Genoa on Septem
ber 29.
FIVE SHIPS SUNK.
All of Them Were Norwegian, Valued
at 5,000,000 Kroner.
London, Oct. 25. The sinking of five
more Norwegian steamships, valued at
5,000,000 kroner, is reported in an Kx
change telegraph dispatch from Chris-tiania.
Report in Washington That' He is to
Leave Mexico City.
Washington, D. C, Oct. 25. Charges
that General Carranza is preparing to
leave Mexico are being freely made by
his political opponents in Mexico City.
They are based upon his decision to leave
his capital for Queretaro, and the fact
that Mrs. Carranza already has crossed
the border into the United States, ac
companied by the wife of her husband's
war minister and chief supporter, Gen.
Obregon.
Information to this effect is reaching
officials here from various reliable
sources. So far nothing tangible tend-
i i r i" i t t. land again and then again. The spell
through official chanels. It is known, i.. , . . . ,
however, that many official, here be- that hf( 1.s V" ""d """ue f"
about his audience as no one has ever
done here before.
While the virtuosos auditors came
bearing that Mr. Bcmis did not come
within the provisions of the act under
which he was arrested.
The evidence in the case showed that
Mr. Bcmis was a graduate of the two
year eourse at the Palmer school of Chi
ropractic at Davenport, Iowa; that he
had no license to practice medicine or
surgery in this state, but that what he
did here was nothing more than he had
been taught at the chiropractic school.
The only matter, therefore, that the
jury had to decide was whether Mr.
Bemis was holding himself out as a phv
sician or surgeon. I he prosecution had
four witnesses to show the method of
treatment given and a newspaper bus
iness manager to testify as to the meth
ods of advertising. The defense had sev
eral witnesses present but, from the fact
that the state's witnesses testified prac
tically to what the defense expected to
produce, no further evidence was pre
sented. The large number of persons present
showed the interest in the ease. Sir. Be
mis has had an office in this city since
last March.
Chicago, Oct. 25. Giant upward
swings in the wheat market carried
prices to-day more than five cents a
bushel above yesterday's closing. De
cember delivery quickly touched $1.83,
aa against $1.784 yesterday. Buying,
which was on an immense scale, received
its chief impetus from reports that a
drouth damage, in Argentine has assumed
proportions of disaster and was continu
ing to grow worse.
SIX DIVORCES
ARE GRANTED
Decisions Announced in Washington
Court and One Other is Being Heard
Before Judge Fish.
Six divorce eases, none of which were
contested, were heard yesterday in
Washington county court by Judge fish
and Assistants Dale and Dana, and bills
were granted in several instances. The
following is the list of cases heard:
Inez Pinney vs. Robert S. Pinney, bill
granted for intolerable severity, custody
of two minor children given petitioner,
with .$15 a week alimonv; Ixittie labar-
ron va. Lynn Labarron, bill granted, pe
titioner granted right to resume maiden
name of Lottie Hunt; Oscar Wheeler vs.
Bessie Wheeler, bill granted for deser
tion; Lydia Smith vs. Clarence J. Smith,
bill granted for intolorable severity;
hdith F. Curtis vs. Charles H. Curtis,
bill granted for adultery, Rose Blair vs.
Blair, bill granted for intolerable severi
ty; Marv Reed vs. Bertie A. Reed, being
heard this morning, W. X. Theriault rep
resenting the petitioners.
The case of in re estate of L. Bart
Cross vs. Jennie L. Barron et al, apt., an
appeal from probate commissioners, was
entered to-day on the docket.
THREE OFFERS MADE.
Over Large Audience in Burlington Last
Evening.
Burlington, Oct. 25. Paderewski, for
years without question the world's
greatest pianist, gave his first recital in
Vermont last evening at the University
of Vermont gymnasium before n big au
dience that sat enthralled for something
over two hours and a half and that rose
at the end, crowded down to the edge of
the stage, and brought him back again
By H. P. Hood &. Sons to Milk Produc
ers.
Boston, Oct. 25. Milk producers sup
plying H. P. Hood & Sons, one of the
leading contractors in the city, are giv
en the option of choosing one of three
new winter contracts, in an announce
ment made bv the company last night.
One contract provides that the contrac
tor shall pay 50 cents for an eight and
ne-half quart can, delivered in Jioston,
the pNce demanded by the New England
Milk Producers association, when the
old contracts expired on Oct. 1.
One of the alternative offers provides
for an average advance of one-half cent
a quart over last winter's price for five
months ending April 1, the contractors
assuming all expenses of transporta
tion from the country to the city milk
plant, except that of tagging each can
as provided by the railroad regulations.
The producers adopting this method "will
receive about 5 cents a quart for the
winter months," according to the an
nouncement. ,
The second alternative offer fixes the
price at 49 cents a can delivered to the
contractors at the general track in this
city, the producer assuming all costs of
collecting, caretaking and transportation.
Aldermen Authorize Two More with the
Usual Restriction Other Matters
of Business Transacted.
The assembled six lingered but a brief
hitlf-hour over aldermani i proceedings in
the council chamber at city hall lust
evening, and by the time tho first of the
justices arrived on the grounds, the al
dermen were ready tf turn their atten
tion to matters pertaining to the board
of civil authority. Chorus ladies carried
the ramparts of tho city court room at 7
o'clock and when the hour for the board
meeting came around, the aldermen
shared their chamber with the other jus
tices.
Joseph D. Ossola was preuent to put in
plea for better sidowalk conditions
near his North Main street property and
he was told that the street committee
would be doing business in that section
by the end of the week. Through the
city clerk Park street residents repeated
their perennial appeal for a now side
walk and beyond recalling that the ap
peal wns first enunciated nearly two
years ago, the aldermen did nothing.
The fire committee reported favorably on
the applications of K. A. Drown and the
Vermont Trucking & Sale Co. to install
gasoline tanks, the request of the latter
including a pump. Mr. Drown may use
hia permit on Granite street and the er
mont T. & S. Co. near Whiteomb Bros.'
plant, so called, on North Main street,
although they must leave the tank two
feet below ground level and their pump
must be flush with the curb. Reporting
on A.
recom
him to move the laundry building at 10
Merchant street, with the reservation,
however, that it must be located no near
er than 10 feet to any other building.
The report wns accepted.
Stating that he is about to leave the
city for a stay of indefinite length, Alex
ander Ritchie addressed a communication
to the aldermen in which he resigned as
a member of the board of health. The
resignation was accepted. Mr. Ritchie
was appointed to the board at the begin
ning of Mayor Gordon's administration.
Wiring permits were granted the fol
lowing applicants on the favorable rec
ommendation of the inspector: Presbrev
Coykendall Co., granite plant lights; Di
versi Fruit Co., store lights; M. A B. L.
Jfc P. Co., five domestic meters; Patrick
Hernon, hanging lamp on North Main
street; A. .Tohnquist. lights for Batchel-
dcr street house: G. F. Mackay, hanging
lamp at 4S Wellington street; Mrs. Mary
Alexander, lights in Branch street house;
Goddard seminary, school lights; Mrs.
In round figures the state of Vermont
paid the sum of $40,000 to the members
of tho First Vermont regiment whila
they were stationed at Eagle Pass, Tex.,
and at Fort Ethan Allen from June 19
to Oct. 10, when they were mustered out.
According to statistics at the state treas
urer's office, just $40,155.35 has been ex
pended by the state to pay the soldiers
the money voted them by the legisla
ture in special session and about $100
is yet to be paid. Incidentally the treas-
, Tomasi's request, the committee -, ' 1 i T , , " .
mended that permission be given ".0Ut tho rhks for the
' Their USRlirriaua
ENTHUSIASTIC BANQUET.
Was Given By Baraca Class of Baptist
Church Last Evening.
The annual fall banquet held under
the auspices of the Baraca class of the
Baptist church was given last night in
tho dining room of the church with the
women of the ladies' aid society serving
the food. The affair was unusually well
attended, and was carried out with en
thusiasm, everyone of the sixty men
present trying in some way to help boost
the enjoyment of the evening by soma
deed of cordiality. The entire party was
ushered into the dining room a few min
utes before 7 o'clock, where they found
the waitresses at the five tables. Each
person's name, printed on a small card,
was laid at a plate around the table.
The dining hall was most beautifully
decorated in blue and white, the effect
R. Bnisa. house lights on Howard street; j forming two cones with the streamers of
Bovee A McAllister, lights in the Worth-
en block; Canton Bros.' Co., motor and
lights in granite plant; Granite City
Press, two motors.
Three building permits were granted
as follows after reports from the inspec
tor had been received: G. L. Morris, re
shitigling on Blackwcll and High Holhorn
streets; Mrs. C. E. Bolster, to repair
Granite street storehouse; Henry Russ,
to erect a woodshed near School street.
Mrs. J. D. Ossola was granted a transfer
of B. Piccinelli's lunch room license and
a record of the Howard street resurvey
was noted.
State taxes aggregating $.1,1 51. (52 were
raid in a warrant approved in favor of
jState Treasurer W. F. Scott and a $100
entry in favor of B. Marriotti for land
damages in the Howard street resurvey
was approved also. Other warrants
were: Street department payroll, $508.38,
street, state highway, sewer, surface
sewer, sidewalk and health accounts;
water department payroll. $77.15; fire
department "payroll. $!l.'i.21 ; police de
partment payroll. $94.30; G. A. Bemis,
$14. services as janitor; E. E. Parker,
$750, gravel bank, street account. Alder
man Ilealy moved into an executive ses
sion that lasted but a few moments.
WANTS UNDERPASS REPAIRED,
lieve General Carranza hag committed a
political blunder at least, if he is not in
fact preparing for flight, by permitting
his family to leave Mexico just at this
time. The trip, they eay, was certain to
be construed by his enemies as a con
fession of weakness.
CIVIL SERVICE DEBAUCHED.
Declared Roosevelt in Sharp Address at
Denver.
Denver, Col., Oct. 25. Pleas for uni
versal military training and criticism of
President Wilson for "debauchery of the
East Montpelier Brings Action Against
M. & W. R. R.
25 NEW VOTERS
LISTED IN BARRE
There is Only One More Chance for Reg
istering Before Presidential Elec
tion and State Election That
is Next Tuesday.
None of the apathy which so-called
crepe paper running from the sides of
the room to two places near the center.
After all were ready to be seated, Rev.
Joseph F. Piani, pastor of the Italian
Baptist mission of this city, offered pray
er. The banquet, which took the form ot
a four-course dinner, with fruit and
whipped cream, followed by an abund
ance of oyster pie. Roast beef and potaV
toes and the usual trimmings were in
readiness for the third disii and ica
cream, cake and coffee formed the last.
After the supper hour was over, a few
were called upon for after-dinner
speeches, which they all responded to
with remarks that were appropriate for
the class at this time. The speeches were
opened by Albert Jones, president of
the Baraca class, and other speakers
were Rev. Joseph F. Piani, Rev. Mr. Ed
wall and Harry Kent.
As soon as the after-dinner remarks
were over, the people gathered in tba
down stairs parlor, where they listened
to a well arranged program that was of
great credit to the members of tho
church, who participated. The entertain
ment consisted of a solo by Fred In
glis; reading by Howard Geake; solo,
Mrs. Grace Cutler; solo, Miss Katherina
Young; reading Rev. Burt J. Lehigh;
solo, Miss Henrietta Inglis, and followed
by a few remarks by ' Rev. Bert J. Le
high of the Baptist church. The closing
prayer was offered by Rev. Mr. EdwalL
150 PEOPLE ATTENDED
Rebekah District Meeting in Barre Last
Evening.
Bright Star Rebekah lodge. No. 18, en
tertained a gathering of 150 people in
Odd Fellows' hall last eveniiur. the occa-
trained observers have ascribed to the gjOI, being a meeting of the 13th district,
political situation was reflected in the j The following out of town lodges were
number of voters who registered at the i represented : Ramona. No 2.1 1, of Cabot;
of the board of civil au- KippmifT "- ,urrt:
I'leasant alley, ro. 4Z, ot l'iainnem;
Montpelier against the Montpelier A
Wells River railroad. S. Hidlister Jack
son represented the selectmen and Harry
C. Shurtleff, the railroad. The petition
was brought in an effort to have the
commission make an order compelling
tho railroad to repair an underpass near
East Montpelier. For some time the
mostly of eourse from this city, the sur-ground near the underpass ha-s been in!
A hearing was held this forenoon at
the State House before the public serv
ice commission on the petition hrontrht i first meeting
, ., (. r i ... T- tlin.it.i in tltr, OMl.tnil . h .1 1 1,U f ut nil, )
ny me selectmen 01 uie town 01 r,asi . " j - - V" '." ' Vratemitv. No. 50. of Williamstown. and
hall last evening. All told there w ere i " - V - n i Vi-
101 persons who appeared to nsslire i (ryst Spring. No. 6H. of W ashington.
thnw,.lrn tl,n their names on t lie "":'-"'"'' I""-- " " "
rounding cities and towns sent several
hundreds, and it became necessary late
in the afternoon to find place for many
extra seats.
TWICE FLIRTED WITH DEATH.
Second Time Train Struck Their Auto
mobile One Man Dead.
Rockland. Me., (let. 25. Flirting with
death yesterday Morris Pollock and
civil service," characterized the address : Thomas Nasser of this city twice at
here yesterday afternoon by Col. Theo- tempted to cross the Maine Central rail
dore Roosevelt, the principal one of a (road track ahead of the out bound pas-
trio of speeches made in the course ot isenger train.
bad condition, it Wing a veritable mud
hole, much to the discomfort of East
Montpelier persons and tourists, the road
check list are correctly addressed. All
told 101 additions and changes were
made, and out of this aggregate 25 are.
new names the names of young men
who have attained their majority since
the last, election or those newly admit
ted to citizenship by the naturalization
court.
Alderman A. M. Rossi of the fifth
being part of the state road to the White ward presided and nine members of the
mountains and bevond. ooara were .resem mu me ..m,..,mu
Stoddard Bates! state highway com-called the meeting to order at 8 o clock,
misaioners. nnd R. S. Currier "county i For the reason that many voters in ward
Emogene F. Buck of Randolph, president
of the state Rebekah assembly; Miss
Emma H. Gates of Ludlow, state secre
tary; Mrs. Nora Jackson of Barre, past
president : Mr. Jeffords of Williamstown,
district deputy; Mrs. Lvdia A. Lamphere
of Wells River, district deputy of tha
sixth district.
An interesting program had for its
principal features the following: Open
ing exemplification. Bright Star lodge;
introduction of grand and assembly offi
cers; address of welcome. Mrs. Josia
Densmore. noble grand of Bright Star
road commissioner; A. A. Stebbens, su-Hive have changed their addresses since j od?(; rp;ponS(1 Mrs Aicp G yerj,t
MARRIED, 1200 MILES APART
Telegraph Served as Means for Perform
ing Ceremony.
Ladero, Tex., Oct. 25 Over twelve
hundred miles of telegraph wire and per
formed through proxies inv the persons
of two telegraph operators. Private By
ron J. Linhart, B company. Second Mis
souri infantry, stationed here, and Miss
Ruby Swartr, in Tier home town of But
ler, Mo., were married Ut night accord
ing to the rites of the Episcopal church.
Preliminary to the wedding the offi
ciating clergymen in Ladero and But
ler entered into a telegraphic conversa
tion to ascertain the official stamlnig ot
each other in the church and their au
thority to perforin the ceremony.
his one-day stay in Ilenver.
Col. Roosevelt urged that compulsory
training would redound to the benefit of
the nation by increasing democracy, de
veloping American youth physically and
materially, and aiding the country's so-
social and industrial development. Hia
In the first instance, near the Warren
toll bridge, their daring was successful,
but awe-stricken neighbors marveled at
the closeness of their escape. A mile
further on, at South Warren, the rail
road track again emerges into the high
penntendent of the railroad; t narles j ine msi i ... ,V , i noble grand of Ramona lodge; report or
Dolloff, roadmaster, and the selectmen ! they retained re-idence in t.iat ward, the j (jsfrift lnP(,tjng. Mrs. Abbie Stone,
attended the proceedings, which were! filth bailwick leads m the number "j jrast district deputy president; exempli
held in the supreme court chamber. appearances. By wards the changes and . fioation of thp ree. Fraternity lodge;
PLACED ON PROBATION.
one 0: ward two 3; ward three (; ward
four 7: ward 5 t!0: ward six 0. On the
Waterbury Man Charged with Stealing evening of Tuesday. Oct. .11. the board
will meet in the court room at city hall
1 fr the last meeting lel'ore election,
Waterbury, Oct. 25. Following the i u ,i, !i is set for Tuesday of the week
strange disappearance of potatoes from j f,,,. wing,
various farms in this vicinity of late. I
Sheriff H. J. Parcher cot on the trail
TALK OF THE TOWN
Pi:
Lena Houston; vocal solo, Mrs. Allin
Rydherg; exemplification of examination
of visitors from other jurisdictions,
Pleasant Valley lodge; penny march for
the Gill home! A substantial banquet)
was served by the entertaining lodge,
the members of which had charge of th
during ceremonies.
President Wilson Goes to Cincinnati.
lyon? Branch, N. J., Oct. 25. President
way and here, traveling at the rate of and after considerable invesfitrnt ion er-
crnticism of President Wilson included i ;iO miles an hour, the automobile was! rested William McLane. When first r-;
a declaration that the executive had "ex-j struck squarely by the loconit.tie. craigned before Justice Adams, Mcl.ene ,; Mrs. Emopenc K. Buck, president of
I'limiK'-ii onices nir jHiuiicm Buj.r n. .wr was mrum ii t' leei, sustaining pleaded not guilty. mat was Miiurnui me Piie n"ii.ni s.-hiui, . . war. m , , , to-Hav for Cincin-
i. nor.rpii anviK-Hiru m- ipi ui nns aim onuses irt-iii which ne remained night. When again nrought into conn trie rn n-t nt-iun mnunc ... . i, mai;. ,iir aJ1rau
unconscious a long lime. m. condition i Monday lie chiinge,! his pi. a ami was; the l.in ii-irir. leuirn.-u uns morning. )
is extremely critical, with small chance Ithen placed on probation. The arrest to her home in Randolph. j ""nl "
that he will survive. j was made by SheritT 1'archer and IVputy Arthur M. Willis of Boston, a niemlier j
Polio, k was injured internally and died Sheriff Campbell after a visit to Me- of the Bo-ton iih.be staff, an I supreme I Funeral services for tecelia Skerntt,
at the Siblev hospital four hours after i lanes house, where thev found a consid- warden of the N. K. i . I'., arrived in the I youngest dauguter of Mr. and Mrs. A li
the accident." He is survived bv a wile i erablc stock of potatoes". city this affrniou from Burlington. Iiam Skerntt of S Farwell street, who
and five children. Among those who have lost potatoes ! where he attended a lodse gathering lt j sin-cumlied to injuries received when run
The automobile was thrown against recently are- the Goodwin farm in ' night. He was a.-eomp.ui;. d t.. Mai re by j ' ver by an automobile Monday evening
the little flag station with such violent Moretown here 14 bu-he!s were taken : F.. W. t rami. II of Burlington. gr.nd stele j will Ik- h. U trom St. Monica's church
that the car was demolished and the ! from the field, "One Moody in Duxbury. j secretary, and the two .rtVi.i!s will be , 1 huiday .luvrnnig at 7 o'dock. The
station was moved two feet from its i where two bags were tak. n" and the l-o ; present this evniug st the m.eting ..fjlx'dy wul be tnkeii on the 7:2U train
ion. The train was tlowin down farm on Iilh hill other rieiTc iations the fifth X. K. O. P. di-tri. t in Oil 1 Kl-ov.r ; .vi,.ntp.lier A t lis Juver ro4
the Hav military bill and the restora
tion of the militia to its former status.
He cited Switzerland's development as
an instance of what compulsory military
traininz would do in developing a coun
try "physically, mentally and morally.
The colonel divided his afternoon
speech, which primarily was to the wom
en of the state, between an appeal to
them to vote for diaries E. Hughes for
president and a sharp criticism of the
administration's foreign and Mexican
policy.
foundati'
to take on a passenger.
I'M
in this vicinity are being invcitiateJ.
low s' hail.
to Portland, Me., for buriaL
VERMONT PAYS
HER SOLDIERS
State Treasurer Has Dis
bursed .$40,155.35 for
Their Services ;
MONEY WA' .sAvrrcn
BY T ilSLATURB (
Only a -.all Sum Is Yet to
Be Paid to the
Men
