New
and
Citizen
"Pleasure comes through toil
and not by indulgence and indo
lence Ruskin."
"Go often to the house of thy
friend, for weeds choke up the un
used path' Scandinavian Edda.
,4
'
VOL. X. n, NO. 4
HYDE PARK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1910.
$1.25 A YEAR
AUCTIOfJ!
At T. W. Utton barn on Maple Street,
MORRISVILLE
Tuesday, Oct. 31
When we will sell
35 Milch Cows
twenty of whioh will freshen this fall,
balance in February and March,
35 Yearling and 2-year-old Heifers,
Three Bulls,
Sale begins at 1 :00 o'clock p m,
TAPLIN & DICKENS, Auctioneers.
C. II. A. Stafford & Sons
Morrisville, Vermont.
,. notice:
We. the nnderigned, announce to the
public that on account of the increase
in the cost of Milk to us, we will be
obliged to iask 8 cents a quart, or 13
quarts for $1.00, after November 1.
H. H. Dodge,
N. A. Phillips.
Everything Way Up
Mow is the time to save every scrap
of old Junk. Telephone or drop a card
to O. K. and you will receive prompt
service and highest prices.
OSCAR KAHN
Morrisville's Original Junk Man
Telephone, 25-5. Lake Street, Morrisville Vt.
f MORRISVILLE
Excursion to New York Oct. 31. See
adv. on page 2. adv.
A whist party will be given at G. A. R.
Stall Friday evening of this week,
The first day of November is the last
-day of grace for taxes. It is most here.
The condition of Georgs A. Cheney, who
-las been critically ill lately, is much im
proved. F. G. Fleetwood and W. M.Sargent re
turned from their several weeks' western
trip last evening. They were met at
"Waterbury by H. A. Smaller and Rev.
W. E. Baker in the former's car. I
AT SALEEBY'S
Any woman who steps into our Cloak
Department and sees the great variety of
models and the wonderful values we are offer
ing will easily solve her Coat or Suit problem.
Suits at $14.90 and $19.50
They are a wonder at these prices.
Coats at $11.50 and $16.50
It would cost you much more to match
them anywhere else.
7
You, the large Woman, who has so
much trouble in getting fitted in Suits and
and Coats, can come to us and we will fit you
to perfection to the garment you need and
without any difficulty. We have the Stout
Sizes from 37 to 51. These garments are
especially designed for the Fat Women.
Sweaters and Mackinaws
You can't help but find the Sweater or
Mackinaw you want from such a variety as
we are showing at the price you like to pay
for the values we are offering.
A. J. SALEEBY
"THE STORE THAT SAVES jYOU MONEY."
JOHNSON, VERMONT
BUSINESS NOTICES.
For Sale. Two Heifers, coming two years-
uiu. m. w. UARLttTUN, luorrisviue.
Wanthd. To buy some Shoats, weighing
about 100 pounds. A. W. Waite, Momsvule.
For Sale Two Houses in Hyde Park Vil
lage; also, Small Farm, 75 acres.
Box 76, Hyde Park, Vt.
Horses Foe Sale One Pair Black Mares;
2750 lbs.; one Pair Mares, 1 bay. 1 gray, 2650 lbs,
. 5. rAGB, Hyde rarK
For Sale. Young Horse, extra driver; good
upen wagon, Harness, ttc ; a bargain. Address,
Y, this olhce. lei. 112-13.
For Sale. Barred Rock Cockerels, Guilds
218 egg strain, gi.oo each. T. R. Woodard,
Neweomb, Farm, Morrisville.
Lost. A Wheel Chain for automobile, be-
tween Wolcott and Hyde Park. Notify P. A
Hollknbeck, Wolcott, for reward.
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
Waives, (.heap Lows, Bull; and Hogs.
Tel.124-31 John Miner, Kydb Park,
For Sale. One Sheet Iron Wood Stove, ex
cellent condition; Oil Stove, complete with oven
used only this summer.
R. D. Cranmer, Morrisville,
Strayed. Three Yearling Heifers from our
Moose Hill pasture. Two are Jerseys, one has
our ear tag in right ear. flease notuy
C J. Story & Son, Morrrisville, R.F.D. 3.
Housekeeper. Wanted, a Woman foreen
eral Housework in a private family at the Asbes
tos Mine Must oe a capaDie ana experienccu
woman. Good pay and steady employment. Ap
ply to Mrs. John Fekla, Lowell, Vt.
For Sale. Choice Young Stock, some regis
tered, price reasonable; also, few Cows about to
freshen; seventeen 12-weeks-old Berkshire Pigs,
$75. Will loan fur keep, a couple horses to re
sponsible parlies. 1 EL 37-10.
For Sale. One Pair Mules, 6 and 7 years,
eentle, with Harnesses, Wagon, Sleds; 1 3-year-
old Mare colt, partly broken; 1 Surry; new pair
Driving Harnesses; 3 (jathenng iuds; oap oiea
and one Power Bone Cutter, cheap lor cash tr
bankable paper, R. M. Powers, Johnson.
Wanted. A eood Inside Wire Man ; one who
has had several years experience on all kinds of
work. A Massachusetts journeyman's license
will be necessary. Steady position, eight hours a
day, 45 cents per hour.
HIBBARD CLECTRIC LOHfWY,
29 Cushing Street Fitchburg, Mass
L. R. Page was in Essex Junction yes
terday to get a load of goods for L. P,
Thaver.
The date of the Bazaar to be given by
the Congregational ladies has been fixed
for. Tuesday, Nov. 21, afternoon und
evening. .
Next week Tuesday afternoon C. II.
A. Stafford & Sons will hold and auc
tion sale at the Utton stable on Maple
street, when they will sell a large num
ber of cows and young stock.
Illegal Trappers Fined
Monday Ed. Recor of the Laporte
road and Frank Bowen, Jr. of Hyde
Park were brought into court, upon com
plaint of County 'Game Warden J. T.
Stevens to answer the charge of illegal
trapping. They were prosecuted by States
Attorney Mauriee, convicted and fined
$5.00 and costs each, which they paid.
FiVe fox skins, three coon skins and one
skunk skin, which it was proven, were
trapped out of season, were confiscated
Eight Cent Milk
On and after November 1, Morrisville
consumers will be called upon to pay
eight cents per quart for milk, the local
dealer's giving notice that owing to an
advance in cost to them they are obliged
to make the raise. They will give thir
teen quarts for $1.00.
Woman's Club
The subject of the Woman's Club
meeting next Monday evening is Cur
rent Events. The committee having the
ptogram in charge considers itself fortu
nate in securing George Gorham Grout,
Professor of Economics at the U. V. M.,
who will discuss in a non-partisan man
ner the issues of the coming presidential
election. Prof. Grout's study of the so
cial and economic questions make him
especially well qualified to speak on this
topic.
Club members have the usual privilege
of inviting guests and their attention is
especially called to the fact that the
hour of meeting is eight o'clock, instead
of 7:30.
Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Raymore, Mr. and
Mrs. A. W. Waite and Mrs. J. A. Waite
made an auto trip to Burlington Mon
day.
Mr. and Mrs. Oscar Gates of Swanton
were guests of Dr. and Mrs. J. frank
Jackson at dinner last Monday. Mrs.
Gates accompanied Mr. Gates on bis re
gular business trip to this section this
week.
Ilarlie VV. Camp, who has been assist
ing at the local station lor several
months and who was formerly in charge
of the freight depot here, has been given
the position of station agent at Sheldon
and went there last week Thursday.
A Yale and Towne lock expert was in
town last Thursday on his regular visit
of1 inspection at the bank. While in town
he opened the large safe in the Town
Clerk's office, which Mr. Niles has been
unable to get into for about a month.
The condition of Mrs. Walter Isham,
who recently underwent an operation for
appendicitis at the Fanny Allen Hospi
tal, is improving satisfactorily. Mr. and
Mrs. O. W. Barrows called on her at the
hospital last Sunday, being taken to
Burlington by Harry Smith of Elmore,
i
Again the Associated Bible Students of
Morrisville are pleased to announce the
comjng to this place of a noted pastor,
A. M. Graham, of Boston, who will lec
ture on "Which is the True Gospel?" at
the town hall in Morrisville Oct. 29 at
3 p. m. AH are invited to hear him. The
lecture is free.
Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Waite, Dr. and
Mrs. I. Frank Jackson and Mr. and Mrs.
C. H. Raymore were in Barre last even
ing, where they attended a presentation
of "The Blue Paradise." Others from
this vicinity were Mr. and Mrs. F. E.
Wheeler and son, William, Mr. and Mrs.
II. L. Spear, E. S. Story and F. O. Lunt.
Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Mould and Mrs.
Frances Greene and son. Porter, went to
Beaver Meadow Saturday afternoon,
where they spent Sunday at the "shack."
They report excellent weather, which
made the climb to Madonna Peak most
enjoyable. They made the trip to the
entrance and return by auto.
C. H. Herrick & Sons have sold their
farm on the Randolph road to Fred
Thornet and son of Holyoke, Mass., and
possession will be given in about two
weeks. The sale includes stock, tools,
etc., and will make a first-class proposi
tion for the new owners, who are practi
cal farmers. The plans of Mr. and Mrs.
C II. Herrick are not yet completed but
their many friends hope they will decide
to remain in Morristown.
Last evening the home of Mr. and Mrs.
W. B. Patch was the scene of a pleasant
gathering, when nearly seventy members
of the advent society, neighbors and
friends called at their home. The event
was in honor of Mr. Patch's 70th birth
day and also a donation patty for Rev.
and Mrs. J. J. Bennett. As "Uncle Wil
liatn" supposed it was simply a donation
party that he was to entertain and the
parson supposed he was just coming to
the birthday affair both were pleasantly
surprised. Mr. Patch received a large
postcard shower, and other expressions
of esteem and the donation consisted of
vegetables, etc. and a pnrse of monev.
The presentations were made by Harold
H. Patch. The evening was pleasantly
spent with games and refreshments were
served.
Election Returns at Bijou
Manager Johnson of The Bijou Theatre
has made arrangements whereby the
election returns will be thrown upon the
screen Tuesday evening, Nov. 7. The
returns will be received during the regu
lar show and as long as obtainable.
S. S. Convention at Morrisville
At the State Sunday School Conven
tion held in Brattleboro last week, Rev.
W. E. Baker, paster . of the First Con
gregational church, in behalf of the local
churches, extended an invitation to the
association to hold the next convention
in Morrisville and the invitation was ac.
cepted. It will be held about this time
next year.
The delegates present from Morrisville
were Mr. and Mrs. Clement F. Smith,
Rev. W. E. Baker and Miss Fay Bates.
H. A. Slayton was re-elected a trustee
and also a member of the international
committee.
At the convention last week resolutions
expressing appreciation of the work of
Mrs. Edith Balch Wright, field secretary
for ten years, demanding theenfoicement
of the law against the sale of cigarettes
to minors, deploring the tendency to
commercializing and secularizing the Sab
bath by baseball, golf, moving pictures
and other amusements and demanding
the enforcement of the laws against such
desecration were adopted.
Opening Number in Course
The' entertainment committee of the
Woman's Club wish to call the attention
of the public to the opening number of
the Lecture Course on Tuesday evening,
Oct. 31, when they present MissSumayeh
Attiyeh in her lecture-entertainment,
"Turkish Life and Customs."
Miss Attiyeh is a young woman of
talent and broad intelligence and comes
from a family of high station. She re
ceived her elementary education at an
American Mission School in her native
land, coming to this country seven years
ago for the purpose of continuing her
studies. Because of her father's high of
ficial standing, she has had, both here
and in her own country, entry to many
places and ceremonials, closed to the or
dinary person, and has thus gained an
exceptionally broad knowledge, which
enables her to address an American audi
encft.withjrare intuition aocU.nteHe.nce.,
' Attired in her native costumes, which
are not only beautiful in themselves, bur
which also set off to the best advantage
her dark beauty, Miss Attiyeh is indeed
an enchanting figure. She brings to the
platform a wealth of interesting, first
hand information and incident regarding
her native people, which she tells in a
most charming manner and with com
plete abandonment to faithful portrayal.
This makes her lecture not only enter
taining but also instructive and we be
speak for it a large attendance. No one
can afford to miss it.
Parish Supper Tomorrow Night
The annual parish supper of the Con
gregational church will be held in the
vestry tomorrow evening, beginning at
7:30. It will be a chicken pie supper,
following which matters of importance
will be discussed and a message will be
given by the pastor. Rev. S. W. An
thony of St. Albans will be present and
his remarks will be devoted principally to
the ten-centennary program which com
ing event is of much interest to Oongre
gationalists. Lamoille Grange
The Grange will hold its regular meet
ing Friday evening, Oct. 27. A very in
terestjng program is being prepared,
Some nice surprises are in store for all
patrons who come and all are earnestly
urged to be present. Refreshments will
be served at the close of the program.
Following is the program: Opening
song, choir; piano selection, Mrs. L. C.
Enimons: soner. Urnn Jones; music, Dy
a auartet .in charge or Mrs. tred hillo-
way;jam-s H hitcomb Kiley, tlis ite ana
Works, Mrs. Hattle Jones; this to be fol
lowed bv readings and recitations taken
from his poems, by Mrs. Edna Farr, Mrs.
Bernice Brigham and Miss Uella inorap-
son; song, Kyle farr; Harmonica soio,
Arthur Hollis; What Shall We Ask of
Our Legislation at Its Next Meeting? C.
D. Howe. Worthy Master Geo. Terrill
will bring some worthy notes from the
Daity Show.
A Neighbor's Estimate
Oct. 24, 1910.
To the Editor:
Geo. I A. Smith stated before the rri-
tnary tnat ne wouia noi pui iortu Buy
special effort to secure the election. Feel
ing it is only fair to Mr. Smith and also
to some of our voters who may not be
personally acquainted with him I would
state through your columns mat air.
Smith has been a life long resident of the
town, having been born here 65 years
go. He has always been a very highly
respected citizen and for the pant fifteen
years has served his town faithfully as
school director. The voters will make
no mistake if tbey elect Mr. Smith to the
General Assembly. A Neighbor
Mr. and Mrs. G. II. Prior were in
North Montpelier the first of the week,
guests of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Martin.
They were accompanied home by Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Goodrich of Benson,
who will remain here for a few days.
THE EARLE STORE
New Percales
able for Dresses. Shirt Waist,
them at the old pi ice of 12V6c
New Laces in
mings. They come in Silver color and Gold. If you wish some-thin-.'
to brighten up a Drtss or Waist, you should be pleased with
these goods,
Corduroys
Bed Blanhets
prices are no higher than last year, owing to Early buyiog.
Window Scrims
time of year when new curtains are iu demand we are well prepare.!.
GF0RGE
Morrisville,
PORTLAND STREET,
BS
LUG
Do these chilly evenings remind you
that you need a new Overcoat,
Sweater or Overcoat ?
If they do, now is the time to come in and be fitted. If you
want something; different, let us measure you for an Interna
tional Custom Tailored Suit or Overcoat.
FOR THE YOUNG MEN
PINCH BACK SUITS are stronger than ever, and signs
point 16wardalIg1fusK" for this
Spring; months. Come early, if possible, and select, your pat
tern. We do the rest and guarantee perfect satisfaction.
LADIES. ONLY
Sweet Sally Limn " Shoes, Black or Tan,
with Rubber Soles anil Heels, for $450
Queen Quality Shoes, " The Shoes Without a Peer in the
new styles. We receive a few new ones every few days, so if
you don't find what you wish at first, just try," try again.
HYDE PARK
Excursion to New York Oct. 31. See
adv. on page 2. adv.
Mrs. Lyman Peck spent a few days in
Montpelier the past week.
Miss Mabel Burnham, who has em
ployment in Burlington was at home
over Sunday.
Wallace Seymour and Hughie Savage
have gone to Bristol, Conn., where they
have employment.
Mis Gertrude Gibson, L. W. Day and
R. Brown of Lenoxville, P. Q., visited at
the Woodard home the first of the week.
Mrs. Emma Clemmons and Mrs.
Howard McNall of Hardwick were visi
tors Tuesdav at the home ot Mrs. Lee
Elliott.
Joseph Young was in town over Sun
day, returning to his work at Essex
Junction. His family willgo there Thurs
day to remain through the winter.
Geo. Young a trainman of Burlington,
has filed a petition in bankruptcy. His
liabilities are $382.75 and assets $300.
Among his creditors are Sherman Farn
bam of this town $100.
Mrs. Fred Miner and son, who have
been at Montpelier through the summer,
where Mr. Miner has had employment,
are at home for a while. Mr. Miner now
has employment at Brattleboro. His
familv will go there soon.
at thb nv mm store, ras park
We have a new line of Dress Material In Sereen, Worsteds, etc. Mealine Silks at
tl.25 vard: Naeatsu Silk at 25o a yard. Be sure to look over our line of Lace a
and All-over Laces before buying.
Men's Wonseam Work Shoes with only
fast at $3X0 a pair. Our Beaver Falls Rubber B.xtts at 3 7j a pair are going like
wise. Ask to see our Men's heavy roll-edge Rubbers for Shoes; also Men s heavy
Patrol 6er Rubbers witt double sole is a good one for $1.25.
We have Halloween Crepe Paper Napkins for that Halloween Party. Children,
If you want to laugh, come in and get a Ilolloween Box of Candy Saturday or Mon
day for 6s. The witches, black cats and
OYSTERS FOR SATURDAT
Bargain Day Specials, Saturday, Oct. 2Sth, only:
Regular 50-ct bulk Tea 87o a lb.; Raspberries 3 cans for 2oc; Slade a I'ure Salal
Cream 9c; Men's Saraoao Gloves 39o a
3 qts for 25c; Onions 40c peck; Grapes.
We have just received a nice
line of Light Percales, suit
and Shirts for Men. We are selling
the yard.
Colors
Is one of the natty
things used for trim
In both colors and white are much in vogue
and we are showing a nice range.
We are showing a splendid assort
menf of tbe?e bed comforts. The
Anything in Window Scrims can
be found here, and as it is the
F. EARLE
Vermont
MORRISVIl LE, VERMONT.
model !"during the Winter arid
The next meeting of the Home Culture
Club will be held with Mrs. Donald
Scribner.
Those who have not -secured their tick
ets for the Lecture Course cam get them
at Wood's store, where they may also
select their seats. Four good entertain
uienrs for only one dollar.
Do not forget the sale by the Ladies
Aid at the Cong'l church Nov. 2. In the
afternoon there will be a sale of fancy '
articles and in the evening there will be
an entertainment, to which 10 cents ad
mission will be charged. Ice cream, cake
and confectionary will be sold. Every
body come and help in a worthy enter
prise. adv.
U. S. Chrysotile Company
The U. S. Chrysotile Company, who
have control of the asbestos mines at
Lowell and Eden are doing great busi
ness in getting ready for developing the
mi nes. A large motor truck makes trips
to Hyde Park twice a day for supplies
gets over the ground in good shape, car-,
rying large loads. The buildings at the
mines are being put in good order and a
system of sewerage and electric lighting
will be put in. Mr. Ferla. the vice presi
dent, is on the grounds superintending
the business.
Insane Man Estray
Archie Whittemore, aged 40 years the
d.mented son of Dan Whittemore, dis
appeared from his home last Saturday
and at this time no trace ha? been found
of him. Parties have been and are now
scouring the woods for him. Should any
body see him they will please notify his
father. Dan Whittemore. at Eden Mills.
ONE SEAM in black and tan are selling
pumkin taces wm ne rigui on me ooxe.
pair; I ripe 10c a id; ranoernes iuo a jtt
Give as a call.
GO
.. JT. CLAUIC, Hyde Pnrlc.
