yyE,THER FORECAST for Kansas:
Fair tonight and Sunday; warmer
tonight; warmer Sunday in the south
cast, colder northwest.
PKOM a purely selfish standpoint, St
pays lu shop early for Clirlstmas.
HOME EDITION
TOPEKA, KANSAS, SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 9, 1916 SIXTEEN PAGES
TWO CENTS
APPOINTMENTS 'PACIFY IRELAND,
ANNOUNCED AT i WIN THE WAR AND
COURT HOUSEj BE FRIEND OF U.S.
i
Assistants Named liy the Newly j Appointment of Lloyd-George
Klected Officers. ! Important to America.
KANSAS MAYOR
ADMITS "BIG .4"
HAVE 1 80 MILLION
EGGS 1NST0RAGE
Startling Admission Gives Food
Probe Sew Impetus.
ATLANTIC PORTS
CLOSED TO 'WAR
BRIDE; CARGOES
Rail Embargo Leaves Only Gulf
Ports Available.
UNCLE SAM'S FIRST NAVAL DIRIGIBLE IS READY FOR TESTS
OUSTED BY THE
SUPREME COURT
O. S. Gibson Promised Offices In
Arkansas City.
Fislier, ("Iianey, Anderson to, New British Premier Under
Aid Attorney Garver. I stands U. S., Says N'orthcliffe.
ROBERT MILER UNDERSHERIFF i
i
H. I. Monroe and L. II. Barnes I
Deputy County Clerks.
Charles Lytle Is Deputy Mar
shal Court of Topeka.
rOl'XTY ATTORNEY.
Firt BssiKtniit Until Flfher.
S .m nsslsrnnt Walter T. ( liauey.
Stoii..Kr.'iih.T W. K. Anderson.
PROBATE Jl'IXiE.
fliief H.Tk Miss Ann Itnll.-iril.
Stenographer Miss K.tmi Iims.
Probation offiee F. W. Iiwdy.
COINTY CI.KKK.
First l..utv II. I- Monroe.
Sc.-..nil .w-iuitv I.. II. r.nriu-s.
MAKSIIAI. (OI KT OF TOPEKA.
T puty Charles Lytic.
SHEKIFF.
I' n i le rs lie ri f f I ! ! rt M t le r.
Must of the newly-elected county
r.fri.-pr officers who will take their
positions for the first time in January j
- announced their appointments to-
day. Mrs. Mary Chapin. elected to the
office of clerk of the district cuuil,
. . . , . . . i.i , -r Vt,ow
siaieti ionay ihul u.u " ' i
horn
sne wouiu ay unu, iw-
wanted more time to study the needs
of the office Hugh Larimer, sheriff
elect, had already announced the ap
pointment of Robert Miler as under
sheriff, but said today he was "up in
the air" over the rest of his appoint
ments. The office In which there is prob
ably nunc interest than ;n any other
is t hat i assistant county attorney.
l:ibert (larver now holds that position
but becomes the chief of the office
in January. He named Hugh Fisher
to succeed him today. Fisher is well
known as an attorney and has made
a wide acquaintance during the four
years he has served as judge of the
court of Topeka.
The a ppoiiitce to the second place
was named out of a long list of appli
cants. He is the son of John Chaney,
chairman of the Republican county
central committee. W. T. Chaney is
now in the office of the attorney gen
eral as office man. He has had con
siderable experience in the law.
Anderson to Stay.
V. iu. Anderson who will be retain
ed as stenographer by Garver has
been with W. K. Atchison for several
years and is one of the '"crack" law
office and court stenographers of the
stale.
Kfforts will be made later by Robert
barvT to secure from the county com
missioncr.s the authority to appoint a I many matters during twenty years,
special investigator in his office a i He adopted a line in the Boer war
n:Hn who will have authority to inves-jthat was not mine, incurring the ba
tiste mmplaintM filed in the office, to j tred, even contempt of millions of his
determine whether or not there is suf- j fellow subjects. It was a brave line,
Ih-ieiu grounds for issuam e of a war- I for it demanded more courage to be
rant and court action. The office has I m; the side of rhe minority opposing
been handicapped in that respect and ! the war, than to shout with the ma
several other counties having a large jority supporting it.
population have such an officer. It is j Opposes Party Tenets.
mi 'STJ'r16,11 Iie Since then Lloyd-George 1 as led all
man selerted lor that place if the sorts of movements at variance with
co inn commissioners give authority. thA tpnptfl of the oolitical party to
r-.oucver. for the present Lytle will
serve under Frank Leech as deputy j
marshal of the court of Topeka. He
has been serving in that capacity " !
der George Frost, who will be succeed
ed by Leech.
Miss Hullard Promoted.
In announcing his appointments in
the office of probate judge. Ralph Gaw
made few changes. He promoted Ann
Ballard .from second to first place.
She succeeds Mrs. Mary Chapin, elect
ed clerk of the district court, at the.
first desk. Miss Ballard has been in
the office for some time and knows
the office routine. Miss Edna Davis
will succeed Miss Ballard at the sec
ond desk. She is now employed by
the KMrblge rating bureau as a steno
prapher She is,a graduate of the
high school and attended the State
as probation officer by Mr. Gaw. is j
serving in that capacity under Judge
MaeFarland
Henry Monroe, named by Kenneth
Haub as deputy county clerk, is a
negro and well known over the coun
ty. He was a candidate for t'.ie Re
publican nomination for county clerk
against Raub at the last primary. He
s now deputy county assessor and has
held that position under X H. Haynes,
giving satisfaction.
L. H. Barnes, named as second dep
uty. W an accountant and has been
employed by the Santa Fp railway
company in that capacity thru an ap
praisal of its property. During th?
campaign he served as an assistant to
Chairman John chaney and Secretary
Oran Lnyton with the county central
committee.
TO EMPORIA NORMAL
Football
Champions!" of
Awarded Tod.iy.
Kansas
The Kansas Intercollegiate Athletic
association meeting in Topeka today
awarded the Kansas college football
championship to the Emporia Nor
mals. i . r o c., c n m 1
Home. Dec. 9. Passage of a vote of,
commence in Italy's present govern
ment and the conduct of the war un
der t hat regime was practically cer
tain by an overwhelming vote Jn par
liament today. The only faction which
It was believed might oppose such an
indorsement was a small group of So
cialists. Possibly a few members of
the party adherents of former Premier
G.nhttl may oppose a complete in
'rstment of the present ministry.
WE ARE NEXT IF GERMANY WIN
New Cabinet Head AVill Bring
War to an End.
Formed Efficient Government
in Only Few Days.
Following is the most remarkable
storv "that lias come nut of the (Treat
crisis Ui Itritish politics an insiile
analysis of the untaxing situation
which has suddenly changed the whole
government, written bv the man who
maile it possible; Lord Northcliffe. In
It Northeliffe predicts that I.loyd
(orne will direi-t tlie winning of the
war, settle the Irish question and
maintain pood will between Oreat
Britain and the I nited States. It is
something more thau an official state
ment. (t'opvriprht. Wlti, by the t'nited Fress.)
ICopyritrhted in tireat Britain.
(Copyrighted at Iiepr. of Agriculture
In Ottawa.)
London, Dec. 9. As a personality.
no,r,1 T Intrl-nanrira to fnr mnnv rn.
jnterest, anfl important to tVle
United States. He is one of the few
. unQerstanaing that
difficult and intangible psychology of
"
the American temperament.
He is important to America for an
other reason. He is now the head of
the five British nations engaged in
war Britain, Canada, Australia, New
Zealand and South Africa, together
with India.
Winning of the war now primarily
devolves on these nations If they and
their allies are beaten, it will be
America's turn next, for Germany's
plans in South America and Ger
many's hatred of the United States,
should be known to every American
who reads the anti-American propa
ganda of the German government.
Lloyd-George is also interesting to
your hundred millions because his life
has been very much similar to many
of you. He began simply, without
other asset a of life than a good father
and mother. He had the same kind
of education that an American boy
gets. There are millions of American
homes like his little home in Wales,
wherein he spent his early childhood.
His father was teacher of a school in
Liverpool,- managed by a committee
of Unitarians including jDr. Harriet
Martineau. His mother was a daugh
ter of a Baptist minister in the Welsh
village of Llanystumdwy.
I do not know Lloyd-George in pri
vate life; I am not in agreement with
him on many political affairs. We
Vinvp hppn onhliclv antagonistic on
w1If.n T belong Some times he has
b j ht an
hh be
wrong but in
d proved right; some
been wrong and proved
but in ail tie nas unaenaiten
he has evinced the same courage
shown thruout this one momentous
week's history.
The British people's fear of hoping
German propaganda in the United
(Continued from Page One.)
FEAR SEA RAIDER
Believe Mysterious Vessel Sow
ing Mines Off Halifax.
BlsgUlfSed as Dutch Ship, It
Runs British Blockade.
Halifax. N. S-, Dec. 9. Warning of
a possible German sea raider has been
given allied shipping by British naval
authorities here, in addition to the
continued warnings concerning two
fighting submarines believed to be
somewhere off the Atlantic coast. The
strictest watch against the vessel sus
pected of being a raider was being
maintained today, since from the posi
tion where she was last sighted she
cquld reach the waters in this vicinity
within a day or two.
The naval authorities in their warn
ing relate that the suspected craft was
allowed to pass by the patrol off the
southwestern coast of Scotland last
Sunday under the impression that she
was the Dutch steamer Gamma. Later
it was learned that the latter was at
Kirkwall at the time.
Mines for Troop Ships.
The vessel is described as of 1,200
tons, black hull with red bottom,
white upper works. one funnel,
thought to be plain black.
Naval officers b'elieve the vessel
may have mines intended to be sown
of f this port, the most important on
thi rflJlsT to tv n-m. J
this coast to the British naw, or to
endanger the travel lanes out of here,
taken by all Canadian troop ships.
Reports reached here today from
St. John, N. B., that following reports
of the sighting of a submarine a short
distance outside the harbor Friday
morning the city ordered aU lights ex
tinguished last night and spread the
warning to nearby cities and towns.
The submarine's presence was report
ed by three fishing vessels.
Such Action Practically Brib
ery, the Court Holds.
OTHER DECISIONS DOWN TODAY
Cherokee County Must Pay Fees
to John Dawson.
Fred Thomas Wins in Johnson-Thomas-Wilson
Case.
The supreme court today ousted O.
S. Gibson from the mayorship of Ar
kansas City and decla- .d C. N". Hunt,
his opponent, elected and entitled to
the office. In decidirg the case, the
court held that Gibson, directly or In
directly or thru a third party, prom
ised offices in reward for political ac
tivity in the city campaign. Suph ac
tion, the court held, is practically
bribery. The ouster order Is effective
immediately.
Gibson is a Democrat, was a -member
of the state legislature in 191S,
and a candidate for the Democrat
nomination for cor gres3 in the Third
district in 1914. Hunt is a Republi
can and in the recent campaign was
chairman of the Republican Commit
tee in Cowley county. Both men have
been prominent in politics.
Hunt Gets Salary, Too.
In deciding the case, the supreme
court not only ousts Gibson from of
fice, but holds that Hunt is entitled to
tiie salary. Evidence before the court
showed that Gibson either directly or
thru friends, promised appointments
of police judge, chief of police and
other effices in event of his election.
His prospective appointees took an ac
tive hand in his election. The court
held that such votes should be de
ducted from his majority. Gibson re
ceived the certificate of election on
the face of returns which showed he
had won by ten votes.
"The method is merely a refinement
of the old, coarse form of plain prom
ise and accomplished bribery in the
sense in which the term is used in pro
ceedings of this character," said the
court in deciding the suit brought to
contest the election.
Bridge Is a Menace.
Deciding the suit concerning the
Missouri Pacific bridge across the Kaw
river at Kansas City, the supreme
court today held that the bridge is a
menace to public health and safety,.
altho the court did not direct destruc
tion of the bridge. Instead the court
held jurisdiction in the case and di
rected the railroad and members of
the Kaw Valley Drainage district to
seek an agreement concerning removal
of the menace.
Dawson Gets His Fees.
Cherokee county must pay John S.
Dawson, former attorney general, $625
in fees for prosecuting jointists who
were released by the county, subse
quent to the expiration of their sen
tences. R. J. Bland, Charles Dixon
and Harry Brown were prosecuted
and convicted by the attorney gen
eral's office, but failed to pay the at
torney fees provided under the state
law.
Dawson waited thirty days after the
release of the men. Failing to re
ceive his fees, he filed suit in the
Cherokee county district court.
Must Fwmisli Standard Gas.
The supreme court today held that
a firm which sells gas to a distribut
ing company under a contract for mer
chantable gas must provide fuel of a
quality that meets standard tests. The
decision came when the supreme
court reversed a decision by the Neo
sho county district court, compelling
the Wichita Natural Gas company to
pay in full under a purchase contract
with Bell Bros. & MacDonald.
I -eave Lawyers in the Cold.
The supreme court today destroyed
a fad among lawyers who seek diver
sion in the collection of fees thru dis
putes in interstate shrpments of grain, j
1 ne COUrt neia inai huch rasea muoi
be taken before a federal tribunal and
that efforts to gain attorneys' fees
thru such actions will not be recog
nized by courts of this state.
County loses Taxes.
The supreme court today reversed
the decision of the Shawnee county
district court granting the right to col
lect from the W. W. Kimball Piano
company a tax on sales notes in this
county. Evidence showed that sales
notes were taken by the local office of
the company. The notes were sent to
the head office in Chicago, which re
corded the notes in the register of
deeds office. The notes were then sent
to Topeka for collection.
Officers of the company refused to
tCoutinued on lape Two.
"VfrANTED-600 WIVES"
Dakota Bachelor Farmers tTnfurl Ban
ner In Chicago, and Then
Chicago, Dec. 9. Bachelor farmers
from North Dakota members of the
party of 600 who are here to attend
the International Stock Show anil
Hm-so Fair at the stock yards, were be-
! in& flooded today with letters, tele
grams ana ipiepnuuc
who are willing to become wives.
Many young women have responded to
the announcement by the farmers that,'
"All that could be wished for in Da
kota was wives."
t t Will nropiHnt of the Oreai
' Northern railroad has sent this mes-v
sage to Hoke Smith, wno nad cnarge
of the special train which brought the
farmers to the stock show:
Marry them off as fast as you car..
We need Chicago women ui the north
west. I will personally feive a nice
wedding gitt to any of the bachelors
who decide to get married."
The North Dakotans motored over
1 the city in cars decorated with ban
ners announcing they were bachelo
1 farmers 'ooking for wives. ; "
- The naval dirigible balloon DN-1 in its hangar.
The first dirigible balloon for the nse of the U. S. navy was recently completed and is now at Pensacola,
Florida, ready for preliminary tests. The dirigible has been named the DN-1. It is 175 feet in length and 50
feet high over all and its beam is 35 feet. It has a total lift of approximately 7,000 pounds. It has a capacity
of 115,000 cubic feet of hydrogen gas and is equipped with two balloonets, one in the rear with a capacity of
8,000 cubic feet, and one in front with a capacity of 7,000 cubic feet.
LLOYD-GEORGE'S
NEW CABINET TO
BE NONPARTISAN
Bnt Not a Coalition Govern
ment Like Asquith's.
Political Upheaval Eclipses
War Excitement.
IS PREMIER A CONSPIRATOR?
Plebeian Victory Bitter Pill for
British Aristocracy.
May Nationalize Shipping,
Mines and Agriculture.
London, Dec. 9. Lloyd-Geor es
cabinet will be non-partisan and will
meet the popular demantl for a busK
ness government. It will not be a
coalition cabinet in the sense of As
quith's administration because Mr. Aa
quith had the co-operation of all par
ties even including the Irith national
ists. The liberal meeting at the re
form club yesterday decided that the
old liberal leaders a. ill constitute an
opposition party in the house of com
mons altho the opposition will be .ne
of helpful criticism rather than of
hostility. The newspapers are devot
ing themselves to framing possible
cabinets and, incidentally are so
wrapped up" in rhe burning questions
as to whether Lloyd-George can be
called a conspirator and whether a
government consisting largely of men
unused to politics can be as efficient
as one recruited from the national ul
ing class, that they give comparatively
little attention to the ever ts of war.
On Socialistic I las is.
This nucleus with a number of prac
tical business men in other positions is
considered to make a strong showing.
Premier IJoyd-George's program is
for the re-organization of the country
or war on a sweeping socialistic basis.
In addition to the nationa ization of
shipping, mines, and agriculture
drastic reforms in the drink problem
and the temporary t.ttlement of the
chaos in Ireland are discussed as the
major tasks confronting the new ad
ministration in the home field.
There will probably be no announce
ment of those whom Lloyd-George
will associate with himself until Tues
day's meeting. It was conceded that
this new cabinet would contain some
of the leaders against whom there was
considerable objection in the old coali
tion cabinet an objection based on
the charge of vacillation. It was be
lieved, however that Lloyd-George
with his indomitable energy would
imbue these members with some of his
own determination.
Prospective Members of Cabinet.
Formation of a "war council" of not
more than six members to take actual
charge of all of Kngland's warring was
certain. Lloyd-George himself will
head this body and nearly all experts
agreed, associated with him would be
Andrew Bonar Law, A. J. Balfoar,
former first lord of -the admiralty in
the old cabinet; Sir Edward Carson,
the earl of Derby, and Arthur Hen
derson. "CO-ED" A FIREBUG
Burned Up Kindergarten .In Order to
Collect the Insurance,
Chicago, Dec. 9. Mrs. Elizabeth
Miller Cowan, graduate of two univer
sities and kindergarten principal, be
came a "fire bug" by her knowledge
of chemistry, according to a confes
sion which Deputy State Fire Marshal
Niels Juul, jr., says she has signed.
According to her confession, she set
fire to her kindergarten and apart
ments when the school failed to bring
a profit after having heavily insured
the building.
"I am 26 years old and formerly
lived in Cincinnati." she said. "I
was graduated from the University of
Illinois in 1910, and from the school
of oritory at Northwestern univer
sity in 1911.
"When my school failed to show a
profit, I bought linseed oil, soaked the
floors and placed oily rags in a closet.
Following the combustion I and my
maid were rescued by a detective pass
ing. -
"We would have got the insurance
if the maid had not refused to swear
that the fire was not of incendiary
origin. The company smelled a rat."-
She named two insurance men as
conspirators in the plot, alleging that
they had promised to help her collect.
CAPITALS WHICH HAVE
FALLEN DURING THE WAR
Brussels, capital of Belgium,
captured by" Germans, August 20,
1914. Belgrade, capital of Serbia,
captured by Austrians, October 9,
1915. Cettinje, capital of Montene
gro, captured by Teutons, January
14, 1916. Bucharest, capital of Ru
mania, captured by Teutons, De
cember 6. . .
TOPEKANJUYS IT
L. C. Rahn Takes Oyer Shirt
Factory, Laundry at Lawrence,
Young Business Man Started in
Work Only 5 Years Ago.
L. C. Rahn, owner of the Capital
shirt factory in Topeka, has purchased
the Wijder Bros, custom shirt factory
and laundry at Lawrence. No plans
have been completed for a consolida
tion of the factories.
The Wilder brothers firm has been
in business in Jyawrence for the last
forty-five years. The institution em
ploys thirty-five persons and has sold
goods in all parts of the United States.
L. C. Rahn was iin the employ of
the Jensen Manufacturing company in
Topeka five years ago when that firm
decided to move from the city. Rahn
didn't want to leave Topeka. He saw
an opportunity in the small shirt fac
tory operated by S. F. Fleishman, who
employed only one girl. 'He bought his
Interests and last week he married
the girl. From a one-girl shop to a
factory employing twelve operators at
times, he conducted and built up a
thriving business on Kansas avenue.
He manufactures shirts, pajamas,
night shirts and underwear and con
ducts the Ed V. Price clothing agency
here.
His latest move is the purchase of
the Lawrence factory.
LINE TOJT. LOUIS
Santa Fe Plans to Run Trains
Into Missouri Metropolis.
Road Will Use Tracks Jointly
With the C. B. & Q.
Plans for the construction of a new
line of railroad in Missouri, whereby
the Santa Fe will gain direct entrance
to St. Louis over a line Jointly used
with the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
are reported to be in progress. The
matter was mentioned in a recent is
sue of a railroad trade publication.
The proposed route is to he built by
the C, B. & Q-. and the Santa Fe is
to have joint use of the tracks, ac
cording to the reports. The line will
he some thirty-five miles long, from
Monroe City. Mo., to Moberly Junc
tion three miles southeast of Moberly.
It will closely parallel the tracks of
the Missouri, Kansas & Texas between
the two points.
Santa Fe officials in Topeka state
that the matter is under discussion by
the executive officers of the road at
Chicago.
MERCURY WILL CLIMB
Last" Night Was Coldest In Month
Warmer Weather Coming.
Hourly temperature readings fur
nished by the weather bureau:
7 o'clock 17 I 11 o'clock 35
8 o'clock 18 j 12 o'clock 40
9 o'clock 22 ( 1 o'clock. 4 4
10 o'clock 30 . 2 o'clock 47
Temperatures today averaged 1 de
gree below normal. The wind is
blowing at the rate of 15 miles an
hour from the south.
Warmer weather is scheduled to
night, following the coldest night here
in nearly a month's time. The wind
was in the south today and the mer
cury climbed rapidly toward the 40
degree mark predicted for today.
Weather conditions over the country
are changing rapidly and the pro
gram is uncertain after Sunday. Tem
peratures in Montana last night were
just about the same as in Kansas, so
nothing severe is in sight yet. The
forecast calls for fair weather tonight
and Sunday: warmer tonight and in
the southeastern part of Kansas Sun
day; colder Sunday in the northwest.
The lowest temperature this morn
i. - was 17 degrees at 7 o'clock. This
is 6 degrees below the night normal
and is the lowest temperature record
ed here since November 12.. Temper-
iCeutlaued on I'age Two.)
ANOTHER BATTLE
WITH VILLISTAS
NEAR CHIHUAHUA
j The "Big Four supposed to control
' , . : the egg situation are Meyer H. Eihen
De FactOS Trapped, Saved by green, Charles B. Ford. Leuis Richter
. j and James E. Wetz, who recently ad
Timely Reinforcement. . ; mitted he was the "egg king" of Amer-
ica One of these admitted to assist-
I ant district attorneys that he "guessed
Plans of Bandit General Puzzle the four of -em had around iso.ooo.oo
Federal Leaders.
TO ATTACK CHIHUAHUA AGAIN
Believe Brigand Army Will Re
turn for More Ransom.
Court Martial for Deposed Gen
eral Trevino Is Rumored.
El Paso. Tex., Dec. 9. Fighting be
tween Villista and Mexican'' govern
ment troops was in progress early to
day near Fresno, only ten miles from
Chihuahua City. During the night
General Murgia, Carranzista com
mander, hurried reinforcements to
the relief of General Ozuna'a column
of cavalry which had started in pur
suit of the bandits after the evacua
tion of Chihuahua City and had fallen
into a Villista trap, according to in
formation received here by mining
men and United States department of
ficials. Ozuna was enticed into a trap early
yesterday near Santa Ysabel by the
Vlllistas. - His forces were attacked
and driven back toward the capital.
Near Fresno, Ozuna halted to make a
stand against the bandits, meantime
asking Murgia to hurry relief.
Bandit Forces Scattered.
Only the rear guard of Villistas en
gaged in the attempt to halt the pur
suit of Ozuna s column. Refugees
from the Cusihuiriachic district say
Villa's men were scattered in heavy
bodies all along the line of the Mex
ican northwestern railway from Santa
thaey sfyhis head"uarters at BustlUos j PRO DU CER OVERTAXED
The present engagement is not taken i '
by military men to mean that Villa Consumption in All Lines Kxcceds
intends to make another assault upon Output Record Breaking Sales,
the northern capital, but merely to
hamper serious pursuit by government i Kew York, Dec. 9. Bradstreet's to
troops. In military headquarters here . .
there is much speculation over "Villa's ! .
next move. ' Consumption continues to overtax
Another report reached United j production and in some respects even
States department agents early today ; greater velocity than heretofore, is
that the column of Carranzistas sent , evidenced numerous lines having all
in pursuit of the bandits has returned i and more than they can handle. Yet
to Chihuahua City after marching out there are a few halting signs, such for
eight miles. instance, as less feverishness in pig
Xcw Defenses tor City ; iron possibly due to the fact that
New lines of trenches and wire en- ! Prlces ar up aU rund- diminished
tranglements are being added to the i buying of some food products that
defense works around Chihuahua City I have been subjected to boycotts, com
by Oeneral Murgia. in preparation for j Plants of warm weather retarding re
another attack. Villa is said to have ' tail trade in seasonable merchantdise
announced he would return for the I wl.th '"timations from the interior dis
remainder of the two hundred thou-i "c.ts of the sprinB " hefl northwest
sand pesos ransom he had demanded 1 that PfrhaP cZtr deal"s are tem
of the city's merchants. He obtained Pora"'y overstocked.
about thirty thousand pesos, it was l- But .OVeF "d b,eynd, 8uPh "oss"
reported , currents as have been developed are
Since the deposition of General Tre-! evidenceS that htoliday buying is of
vino as commander of th. r-ati-, I enormous proportions that numerous
S;7nl ; n !"9 impeded by inability o
extant that he is to be court mar! eet suf.f?c"'nt e',he,r fJ receiving
tialed l"u" mar ! or sending out products that jobbers
." . , ! as well as wholesaler purveyors of
nrDVnnnviP nnmn . staple merchandise are making record
tltnTbUUT h UlIINll IT breaking sales, that wages as well as
" " w WUII,U 1 dividends keep going up, and that fn-
' m I vestment securities continued to be ab-
Thonsands of Employes Benefited by ! sorbed on a large scale. Weekly bank
Wage Increase ' clearings $6,979,578,000.
New York. Dec. 9. Two thousand
employes of the Arlington company of
Arlington, N. J., subsidiary of the Du
pont Powder company, have been
granted an increase in pay in the form
of a 20 per cent bonus on an annual
payroll of $1. 920. 000. it was announced
today. This makes an increase to the
workers of J384.000.
St. Louis, Dec. 9. Announcement
was made today by the Rice-Stix Dry
goods company that it had granted a
bonus of one month's pay to all em
ployes except department managers i would be real nice to have the girls
and salesmen, and that the wages of ; give an exhibition In the gym today
these employes had been advanced 10 I for the benefit of the boys,
per cent. Seven hundred employes are I The gym was packed. The girls ap
affected. ; peared in bloomers, silk stockings and
' considerably form fitting Jerseys. They
t ' Toledo, O.. Dec. 9. An increase in ; made a hit with the boys, all right,
the wages of the Willys-Overland Au- The boys were so demonstrative in let
tomobile company employes in Toledo. ' ting them know it that the exhibition
Elyria. O., and Elmira. N. Y was an- I wound up 4n a large sized riot before
nounced today. Twenty-one thousand it got under way.
men are affected. The increase ! The boys will never, NEVER be in
; amounts to $1,925,000 a year. ' vited again.
Allege Commission Men Keep
Two Sets of BooIiS.
EGG BOYCOTT ON IN K. C.
Restaurant Men's More Sup
ported by Housewives.
Wetz, With 72,000,000 Eggs, Is
One of Quartet Trust.
Chicago.' Dec. 9. Acting on their
latest discoveries that four men con
trol the egg supply of Chicago and the
middle west perhaps and that two sets
of books have been kept by the cold
storage men. United States District At
torney Clyne and his assistants today
set about arranging their evidence for
the grand jury Monday.
Railroad embargoes on foodstuffs
land addd vigor in the federal food
I probe are expected to push prices low
f er again today, altho the storm sweep
I Ing the Mississippi valley may check
j the decline temporarily.
eggs.
Big Surprises for Probers.
With this admission, the govern-
mpnt officials dronned their crobe of
; packers activities temporarily and will
go arter tne speculators to tne nmii.
The allegation that the speculators
kept two sets of books, one for exhibi
tiqji in the event of such an inquiry
as is now on, and the other set, radi
cally different, officials believe, for
their own accounts, will be probed im
mediately. To enable the federal attorneys to
arrange their evidence and follow up
the new angles of the investigation,
the grand jury will be in recess until
Monday.
Boycott on Eggs In K. C.
Kansas City, Mo.. Dec. 9. This was
the last day eggs were to be sold, in
any form, at- retanrtnts - and cafoe
here owned by members of the Kan
sas City Restaurant Men's association,
according to the recently announced
plan that a "boycott on the staple
would go into effect here tomorrow.
All of the members are distributing
posters and displaying cards which
read as follows:
II. C. Ii.
To the Public: Will you please
help us to cut the cost of eggs by
refraining from using them, begin
ning Sunday, December 1 0, unless
the price is again normal?
The cards, of which 50,000 are be
ing distributed in Kansas City, are
signed by the association. The ac
tion, it is said, by members of the as
sociation, has received the unofficial
support of the Athenaeum, a woman's
club with a large membership here.
A committee of the club has been aid
ing the restaurant men in their fight
and officers say that only four restau
rant men out of 400 have opposed the
plan.
"Eggs already have gone down a
few cents," one of the cafe owners
said recently, "and perhaps' will drop
even further if the 'boycott' becomes
general."
RIOT ENDS GYM SHOW!
Never, NEVER. Will Girls Invite Boys
to Kxhibi tion' Again:
Dallas. Tex., Dec. 9. Boy students
at Forest Avenue high school are not
aesthetic.
The girls, as part of their physical
culture curriculum, had been drilled
in dancing of a sort of semi-aesthetic
nature. Their instructress thought it
Eastern Roads United to Stop
Freight Congestion.
DEPRESSES GRAIN PRICES
Embargo and Car Shortage
Shakes Chicago Markets.
During Past Week Wheat
Scores Drop of 31& Cents.
Chicago, Dec. 9. Announcement to
day that all eastern roads were in th
embargo on shipments to the Atlantic
coast left only New Orleans and Gal
veston as the commercially practicabl
trade routes to Europe for middle
west munition; makers and other war
goods producers. The entire list of
Atlantic seaboard ports is closed by
the embargo on shipments in which all
the eastern roads are united.
United States District Attorney
Clyne sent investigators today to El
gin to attend the meeting of the board
of trade which organization fixes each
day the price of butter which is said
to govern the sales thruout the coun
try. This action of the district attor
ney is in line with his announcement
several days ago to enlarge the scope
of his inquiry into the increasing cost
of food products prices.
V-Boat Scare Affects Market.
Chicago, Dec. 9. Renewal of ten
sion at Washington as to apparent
German infractions of the agreement
with the United States about subma-
i me uiittUKH nave largely oiimci uur-
ing the last couple of days the bullish
effect that earlier this week in the
wheat market was due to huge export
sales. December delivery of wheat
lost 3 in value as compared with
a week ago, but deferred options
scored gains of to 5 1 . Corn ad
vanced 1 to 3 V4 for the week, and
oats a shade to 1 cent. The outcome
in provisions varied from 75 decline
to a rise of 2 cents.
All eyes in the wheat trade turned
quickly whenever developments ap
peared likely to increase or. diminish
the amoui - of export shipments from
the Uni.ed Stales , At first the oUa.n-.
donment of the proposed sale of$50,
000.000 of British and French treas
ury bills seemed to have put the bears
at a decided disadvantage, and there
was much uneasiness regarding vir
tually unfounded reports that efforts
had been made to cancel the purchase
of millions of bushels t wheat in
tended for Great Britain. Tightening
up of interest rates Monday on call
leans acted as a further handicap on
the bulls.
Kmbarjro Makes Market Bearish.
The intensification of the railway
embargoes east of Chicago formed an
other source of depression as the week
drew to an end.
Corn and oats were bei.rishly af
fected by the approaching, .lose of
lake navigation and the conseqi jnt re
striction of eastern outlets. Besides,
indications seemed to point to enlarg
ed receipts soon as a result of a mre
liberal supply of railroad cars in the
west. Increasing arrivals of hogs
wenke d .provisions.
SITUATION WORSE
King Cpnstantlne Mobilizing
Royalist Troops.
Allies' Blockade In Effect;
Washington Is Notified.
London, Dec. 9. The Greek situa
tion reached its most critical .stage to
day. Mobilization of King Constan
tine's royalist forces, reports of Teu
tonic negotiations with the monarch,
departure of all allied subjects from
the capital and of concentration of al
lied forces near Athens, were among
the elements which gave concern here.
All dispatches from the capital are
greatly delayed.
One dispatch dated early In the
week declared that adherents of for
mer Premier Venizelos's now estab
lished private government at Salonikl
were suffering persecution from the
royalist forces and were fleeing in ter
ror from Athens. Atrocities were
charges against the Greek troops.
Meanwhile, the allied blockade of
Greece went formally into effect,
maintained by Briitsh and French
warships.
C, S. Ambassador Sends Notice.
Washington. Dec. 9. Ambassador
Sharp at Paris notified the state de
partment today that the allied block
ade of Greece began Friday morning
at 8 o'clock.
MAKE PAPER AT HOME
With TWs Plan in View France Pro
hibits Further "Tmixirts.
Paris. Dec. 9. The government has
decided to prohibit the importation
of printing paper, according to a
semi-official announcement. The ob
ject of the step is two-fold, to help
raise the exchange and to encourage
the French paper industry, which it la
considered, in view of the local re
sources in lumber, should be inde
pendent of foreign supplies.
Bears Force Cotton Down.
New York, Dec. 9. Bears on the
c.tton exchange who drove prices
down nearly $5 a bale for some
months vesterday, made a sec nd
drive on the market today. Prices at
the close were down 19 to 33 points.
la loss of $1 to $1.60 on the bale. Oc
tober cotton sold at 17 cents during
the morning.
1
