NIGHT
EXTRA
pST&A
NIGHt
EXTRA
IWUJtUlUJl VaA&T TLLITIIIIKT
VOL. III. NO. 75
KiG OF GREECE
DEFIES ALLIES;
GATHERS ARMY
Mobilization Gall Believed
Prelude to Attack on
Sarrail's Lines
" ' " -
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 0. 1016 .,., ,o.. .,,.., ..
1 '' ' -
ft AS FORCE OF 75,000 MEN
jfedynllats Stir Nation for War
on the Side oi central
Empires
SAI.ONtCA, Hoc. D.
itine Constantino has burncit his bridge
IkUnd him In avowed hostility to the ln
riMil Ha has Issued nn nnlcr for moblll-
jatlon hlch, In nil probability, ends nil
hjs of a peaceful settlement of the
Oreco-Kntento dispute Tno maximum
"rnsiber of soldiers nt Conitnntlne's com-
feeitnd Is estlmntcd nt TS.000. It la asserted
Itt ood authority that tno proclamation or
ViU blockade of lircece uy mo ,iucs mm
iiH Utrman Victories in riuniann niitu
Jrorepled tho King nnd tho llojnllst party
U commit themselves definitely ngalmt the
r'ALhs- " ' now "I1"1 u,al lne ,vlnB
'will make an nttempt to cm mi way norw
'wsrd through Laris'. nnd Join linnds with
rili Teulon-Dulgiir nnny on the Monnstlr
'Iroa.1. Such a course would not no iiipron
' ible. In view of the fnct that tho King
,& upptlea '"" nt Ica,t n lw0 n10nl,",,
: campaign. Oencrnl Sarrail, nowcvir. 13
I prepared for any emernencj
L ... ...nnn m pn fntrlncr ftlll nil-
iri.vnni nunMKiiivi -i tv ......., .....
r?iatace of the urrtiian 1c10nes m .
Msanla and nro exaggerating- them in
ftaeamlnK articles In tho press They nro
knoiJInc out tho firomlcc to tho Greek pco-
itph that the presence of Allied forces in
Crete will soon lo nt cnil nnu Hint a pon
trfiit German army Is soon to bo sent
southward from Ilumnntn for a grcnt offen-
itrl In Macedonia that "will drive Scrrall's
forces Into the sea" The Itojallsts also
predict a German drlvo on Odessa through
Etuarabla nnd n complete nnd early Ger
mn victor. In which, It tho enters tho war
ca the fide of tho Central Powers nt once,
Crete will share
The Untento blockade of Greece Is pro-
?Wedlnj In n sjsternatlo manner. "No slips
M allowed to leave or enter any Gr.uk
genu
LLOYD GEORGE BARRIER
AGAINST GERMAN MENACE
TO U. SORTHCLIFFE -SAYS
Success of Allies Under New Premier's
Leadership Means Removal of
Aggression in New
World
His Rise in Life Like That of Typical American-Shows
Magnificent Courage Even in Opposition to
Policies of Party or Country if
Deemed Wrong
PAGE RESIGNATION
NEWS TO LANSING
Already in President's
Hands, However, Says
High Authority
SEEKING PRIVATE LIFE
PRICE ONE CENT
Following is tho most remarkable statement
niwif ....of. ;.. Ilt.'.l. ..!...-- ".". "" "' IBI
wh frfc r ,rhn ' " l"r",? i?"?'.!!" . "". ' "? s,t,m,ion
n..iu " " " ,l"""- ""tcriiHiriir, wrtiint bu the man w!w mad,
that has come
out of the
possible.
By LORD NORTHCLII'KK
kopyneni. win, KU llr I nllnl I'm,
I n.i..l..Lt..l ... ..
i;. tt....i.... .; "."LI" " '". uf irrirnin.
inMnnv n r. ; "' r"" '!
...,..,, i,KK, y. rt, n ncrsonniitv. nvi,i 1 1. .1 n
ul"j'i wtuim:
I oliyrloMf J nl
ncrsonniitv. Iinvi.i
reasons intcrcstinj: nnd important to tho United State
v U..1.9H awucsmen uniicrstamlinR the difficult and
Ullies soon to depose
KING, LONDON HEARS
LONDON. Dec 9.
Within a week King Constantino of
;tc will be an exile, iloposea from 111s
Miss by the Allies, nnd M. Venlzelos will
P In charge of tho Greek Goiemmcnt. Tho
Cftek army also will bo disarmed. This Is
I (hi) expectation here.
Ktiur Conatnntlne has brought his fnto
ICMm himself by persistently Intriguing with
Itts Kaiser. Despite repeated warnings from
B& Allies, he regularly sends nnd receives
wesMges from the Kaiser through neutral
liDlomatlc channels. Some of these mes-
(es hae been Intercepted nnd are now In
Ills sandi of the Allies.
i for many
He H one of tho
ntamrilile tisvchnlocv nf
iiittmcncnn temperament.
He is important to Amotion for
another ronton. He 11 now head oi
tho Hritish nations engaged in war
Hritain, Canada, Australia, N'ew Zcalnnd
and South Africa, together with
India.
Winning of the war now primarily
devolves on these nations.
.Jf they nnd the Allies are beaten,
it will he America's turn next, for
Germany's plans in South America
and Germany's hatred of the United
States should bo Known to every
American who rends tho nnti-Amer-icnn
propaganda of tho German Gov
ernment. LIKK "TYPICAL" AMERICAN
Lloyd George is also Interesting to
your hundred millions because his life
hns been very much similar to many
of you. Ho began simply, without
other assets of life than a good
father nnd mother. Ho had tho same
kind of education that nn American
boy gets. There aro millions of Amer
ican homes like his little homo in
Wnles, wherein he snent bis onrlv
uaiu uuvft UKUKUK childhood. His father was n teacher
of a school in Liverpool, mannged by n committee of Unitarians, including
Harriet Mnrtinenu. His mother was a daughter of n Baptist minister in the
Welsh village of Llanystumdwy.
I Wi 'If- "
niimiiiiiiiiiiiiin 1 -. - titT'1iiH
QUICK NEWS
FOUR SHIPS SUNK IN TWENTY-FOUR HOURS
LONDON, Dec. 0. The Danish steamship Sigurd, 2UI) tons, nnd
tho Hritish steamships Avrlston, 3B18 tons; Conch, 0020 tons, and
Tnnfleht have been sunk within the last twenty-four hours, Lloyd's
repotted today.
CONTRACTS LET FOR 96 ARMY HYDROAEROPLANES
WASHINGTON. Dec. 0. Tho Wat Dcpnttmcnt today nwaulcd
!J1,C7.D0I wotth of contracts for nincty-sls hyrlroacioplancs tor
cotst nrtillciy stations as follows: Curtlss Company, Buffalo, sixteen,
at $22,5U0 each; Acto Mailue EnglucciinB and Sales Company, New
Yorl:, sixteen, at !?18,000 each; llurgcss Company, JInblchc.d, ilass.,
thhty-twa, at 92a,032 each; Standard Aeroplane Coipoiatioti, 1'ialU
Held, N. J., thltty-lwo, at $21,000 each.
THREE U. S. JURIES PROBE PRICES NEXT WEEK
W.N.SIU.NOTO.V. Ore. P Snocllll nuiinl .In.
I Seizes woman in leap
TO DEATH IN RIVER
Autoist Dashes Over Bridge nnd
Snatches Would-Be Suicide
From Rail
An automobile and a qulch-nctlng driver
today saved Mrs Mathilda llujcs. slxty-flve,
frwn committing suicide by leaping from the
Falrmount Tark trolley brldse near Straw-
ierry Mansion.
Tit notnan was on top of the railing
n Frank U Dill, of 400 North Sjxty-
wlra strttt, who was motoring east on tia
trWje, saw her. Uo speeded up, reached
fa point where she had climbed, and leaped
ttw the machine, hU father, Walter J. Dill,
We- the wheel
Toe young Mr. Dill was Just In time to
b the tall of the woman's coat as she
ted her long leap Into tho Schuylkill.
Mrs. Hayes weighs about 135, and her
H to be. free nlmost mml mil lnn bi
&l$. for he had only one hand to devote to
m1 Uik, having to use the other to keep
r hla own position on the brldire. The
ftM. too, was tearing under the strain.
Mnwhlle Dlirs father had driven back
W tWO Dark BUard!l hum Wnnrinnl .,.,,.1
Sb. They were l. .r. vnhm,,. n,i v
t. The thrA nt tham nllmt...! .. At.-
Sna. fOrmlni? A nhnln raanl.A.l I ..
ita to get a body hold on Mrs. Haves.
wV.-'S u ,Wllr ,0 et 'rea and '". but'
tr saved nc
Tben ihn w.i h.ni.. . 1 ..
iM n.,..M j "' """ ,u ,,1B riJaraiiouse
m queitloned by Sergeant ovv.il. Sh
nun that It was almnlv n nt
ency Her only relative In the
fau.h tJr '. "r ne ,a "Shtlng with the
-r" "aiifuinan. out naa Den
ntfo many veam Rh ta
tMr'SlJiV".. 8bJ tfMea at 2"2 or
nS3tiiw,u Mnt htr ,Q ,ha phiiade
THE WEATHER
I do not know I.loyrt Oeorgo In private
life; t am not In ngrecment with him on
many political n 'fairs. VTe have been pub
licly antagonistic on many matters during
twenty jenrs Ho adopted a line In the
Door war that nnB not mine. Incurring tho
hatred, oven contempt, of millions of his
fellow-subjects. It was n bravo line, for
It demanded more courage to bo on the ln
sldo of tho minority opposing the vr than
to shout with the majority supporting It
Since then I.loyd Georgo has led nil sorts of
movements nt variance with tho tenets of
the political party to which I belong
ALWAYS KVINCHD COUKAGl'
'Sometimes he has been right and
proved right, sometimes ho has been
wrong and proved wrong; but In all he
has undertaken ho hns evinced tho same
courage shown throughout this one mo
mentous week's history.
'Tho British people's fear of helping Ger
man propaganda In the United States pro-
I vented Kngllsh wrlteri from sav Inn how
dissatisfied the Ilrltloli people have been
with the politicians who have managed our
share In the war since 1914.
I.Iod George wan the onlj member of the
Government with the lournge to exhibit
discontent over our feeblo nnd vacillating
conduct of the war. Occasionally in I'arlln
merit and on the platform he attempted to
tell tho people a little of the truth, but
on these occasions ho was alwas howled
down by members of his party and their
newspapers as unpatriotic and giving com
fort to the enem Tho rest did their best
to hide the truth.
The hlde-the-truth tactics In Commons of
smaller politicians were shown at the time
they were endeavoring to cover up their
blunders nnd Sir I'd ward Carson left the
Government last J ear
SHOULD IIAVi: QUIT KAULIUU
If Lloyd Georgo had resigned with him
then the war would have been greatlj ad
vanced He was prevailed upon to remain,
but evidently at the end of last weeU ha
found the state of torpidity and twlf-wtls
MRS. LE DUC FREE;
TELLSjOF MURDER
Pretty Woman of Hotel
Tragedy Goes Back to
Home and Husband
RELEASE! BY CORONER
By M'LISS
Mrs. I.e Duo!
Kven tho court reporters were caught by
tho thrill tint swept over the room as It
alnaj.s does at the summoning of tho star
witness In a murder case when sho Is a
spectacularly biautlful woman when Mrs
Joseph C I.o Due. of Chicago, tooL the
stand to tell publicly toilnj for the llrst
time the part she plajid in tho triangle
traged) nt the Ilotil Walton September 2.
In this lurid shooting fr.iy Mrs Murgant
Ilelzar, of New York. .nd Joseph C Ora
veur. New York gnruge uwner, were klllul
anil Mrs I.o Due herself was dangerously
w ounded
About three minutes after she had testi
fied a verdict freeing her was rendered
Swaying liko u tall and graceful Illy, her
f.ieo as white as alabaster, tho violet of her
ejos enhanced by the deep purple shidows
that rimmed them, Mrs I,e Due approached
tho witness box supported on the arm of
her husband, who arrived hastllj from.
Chicago this morning to he present at tho
Coroner's Inquest. She trembled visibly.
When she waant wiping uway the beads
of perspiration from her fao. her long white
hands placed nervously In her lap Her
husband, who, from the. beginning, has
been emphatic In hU belief of her inno
cence, even when the tnster) of the shoot
WAI.TKU IUNKS PAGE
WASHINGTON. Dec 1 - When In
formed of the report thut Walter Mines
Iligc Ambassador to Kiighiml had re
signed. Sccretarv of Htnta I.nnsliiR to
clay snld ho had not even hcaitl the en
voy Intended giving up his post.
Notwithstanding this statement hy Sec
rotary t-uisltig, it i,,,., been learned on
high authority that tho leslRiinlton of
Anib.isrndor I'ago has been In tho linnds
of President Wilson for suvrrnl clavs.
The liifotmnnt let It bo clcaily under,
stood that thero Is no political significance
whatever In the lejlgnatlon of tho Am
bnssntlor. Ills action, It Is sold, Is
merely the result of it dcslro on tho part
of .Mr Pago to h,i i .n..v ...I r i,n .
tremol nidunus duties nnd responsi
bilities of his olllcial position, nnd to bo
enabled to return homo mid tnke up anew
the less exacting life of a private Amcrl
can citizen.
Since tho hoitlnnliii; of the I'mopeati war
-Mr. rngo linn been burdened with ever-Increasing-
tasks, which orpin nt the start
of hostilities, whon ho was called upon
to. arrango for tho return liomu of thou
sands of American tnunlors many of
them stianded without funds In Hnghud
and other br-UJtwcnt countries.
While Anglo-American iclntlons since
tho start, afrjJic Giat- War -'have
novcr been within me.istir.ioli distance
of crises surli as thoio between this coun
try nnd Ocrimny lesultlng from sub
mnrino warfare It Is probable thrft Am
iMimador Page has been nn oven buslor
mm In London than Mr. Clernnl In Her
lln Tho dllllcultles that liavo arisen
wiui cerinnny imvo been of a "short
though ugly" charactei, with tho Issues
compiratively dearly defined, In stlnng
contrast with the long and vexatious no
Botlitlons, tho Interminable) discussions
entailed by Gieat llrltaln's sea policies.
I'lrst. thero were tho various rnntrnlmnd
declarations which failed to meet tho letter
of International uw then followed the
anomalous 'blockade with Its m-titral re
artlom and Its corollaries on thn methods
of "st nnd search . next the mall sell
urrs. and finally the blacklist with the
iwsnsibllltles of American reprisal
I !(! Ilt'I'IIll 111 III It-iMI fl.f K ....
'" '"""' - mraKn nnu isew Vor. flu. ml.ldl.. ,.r ....v. .. i, u ,
Innulrles of high cost of living
Asslstnm Attorney Cener.tl Anilei-un. In oh trB. of tho piOhe. niiliounced to.lij.
STEEL'S UNFILLED ORDERS A RECORD
Stiil.1 VJ!UC" ""'' :'T,, '"""nK" r l,m!t(l rU 1 1 on tho books of tho United
.stitn .sieci rorpointion Novembet So set n irvv lilKli iocoi.I nt ll.05S.WI tons nn
IM-Tlotaicrt T0!w5B,OI,, WCI" M, r,0ler 3l ,0l", l,"""C" ,"'',,,'H N'om"l,rr 3'
PROVISIONAL POLISH STATE COUNCIL CREATED
dJll'H'i' U,."C ' A"0"""-,"t was made today through tile somlolllclnl
v.iorseas News Ageno of the creation of a provisional ntuto council for tlm new
V, . .' T" ,ro,l"lo"l '"'' "I" ronslst of fifteen inemberH from
tno illstrlrtH ocniidcd bv (lermuis nnd ten frm.. n. ... - 1...1.1 1...
garnns Liter tho members will be elected li5 the Poles
111,000 STONEMEN TO CO TO NEW YORK TOMORROW
Twelve thousand Sloncmen. the latest hods nf men that evei left this city
as 0110 orj-itiIs.it ion. win ,m,Uo u pllgrlniaco to New York tmnurmw to establish
1 tree new lodgea. two in Ilrookljn and one In Mnuliiittiin Thoy will bo led bj tho
Itov II. c Stone, lender of the Sloncmen lVllomhlp. who will conduct the services
. , fn,l",,lr'11 oC ti J"1"' l" llne AirniiBemenla liavo been mailo by the
1 hlladelphl., m,d Itendlm; Itallvv.ij for tuontv-ono special trains to tnku th 111 mj
o'V7' "0Bll,nl"K "' fi::" " tialin will leave the Teimlnal eveij live mlmiles until
S JO Tho Ktoneniell ulll um ml tl... nl..l,i n. , 1 . ... ...........
30 n 111 Monilnj morning
WAR COUNCIL
DEBATES NEXT
TEUTON BLOW
Kaiser Presides at
Meeting Held at Ger-
man Headquarters
LONDON EXPECTS
MONASTIR DRIVE
More Than 70,000 Rumanian
Troops Captured Since
December 1 ,
RUSSIAN ATTACKS FAIL
WOm AN JUST PAST CENTURY, MARK DEAD
.... ,A wwna" mi"'t """ Imndred cnrs old tiled today ut tho homo of tho Indigent
Widows and HInglo Women's Society. .101. Chestnut street. Hliu w.n Mrs. Kllza
both T. Pritt. born In October. 1S1C. In n houso vvhlili stood near Fifth nnd Locust
stieeta rho conlcn.ir'un irtnlncd the use of nil her faculties until tho end and had
prcd.cl.od ror many venrs that she would live to bo morn than onti hundred yenis old
hhu wns tho Miuni-ost of Ave chlldien All her lolntlve-i died jbiinir Kiincrnl iiorv
Ices will bu held on T'lcsd-iA.
MISTAKES AMMONIA FOR
. - t t
GIN; DRINKS IT; DIES
A drink of nmmonli. swullowed In mlstiiko for cln. (nused the death of Jacob
Wyler. foitj nine cntn old. of ISC West Norrbt ntrcot. The bottles of Bln" and
anitnonlii were side hj n'do In the kitchen oupbourd nt the Wyler home. Wyler
took the wiong hntllo nnd. renllslnc hla mistake, rushed to fit. Mnry'a Hospllnl.
.u uivu hiiiiiu) niicrvvnrti
WpHP''"laiaH
I I Tliri iNlMlWl " l-lT -" BiBiBiBiBiBiH
f BfflKf IV)
mm 1
j (HI I
vMfi f'isH nl s? '
Hn.Ms-aat-satnaai-f umii lm'miamm0
'OSBORNE' BLAMED
FOR SUICIDE HERE
Young Milliner, Grace Fran
cis, Said to Have Been
His Dupe
DAUGHTER'S TRAGIC DEATH FATAL TO MOTHER
Crlef, over the ti.iRlp tnd of her duiRliIer. .Mary Ilrudlnff, twcnty-llvo yca'rs old.
who died from huriiH jn tho Methodist Hospital. Is believed to hav.i t.nwetl the de.ith
fo Mis. Anna IJrudlnj;. bImj jciis old. of 4s Wolf street The Kul was bathlnK her
mother with tiirpentlno hist Knturdnj when tho lluld Ijjnltid and the daughter was
fatally burned
GAVE EARNINGS TO HIM'
TOO MUCH LEARNING MADE HER A FIREBUG
CHICAGO, Dec . Mis. Hllzabetli .Miller MlCowiiii. mnduato of two univor.
sltles nnd Itlnderi-iirteii principal, became a "llrebiiR" by hei limiwIedBii of chemlstiy
ncconllntr to a confession I)ejmt Statu Plro Marshal Nlola .luiil. ,ir. s.is 8,0 his
slKtied. AccordhiK lo tho confession, who set lire to her Hintleifiiirten nnd npart-
--.ui niii-n ui.i rvuiiiu imien io iirini; a piont nflci liavlnc heavily Insured
bulldlnft.
the
SEES NO NEED FOR INCREASE IN PRICE OF BREAD
HAItlllOIll'Itd, Dec. 9 Hikers of tho .State have no Just reason for ndvancliiK
tho prlco of liriad fmm five to six tenia a loaf, In tho opinion of Jnines Sweeney
chief of tho Stnto llurenu of Hlund.trds, who today Issiud a eompiehoiiiilvo ntate
ment la rebuttal of tho rlalms of the Pennsj Ivanla Master Halters' Association,
which this week recommended that all the bakers of tho state advance their prices
not later than Jiinunr 1. Mr Sweeney sas tlm sl.ee of tho loaf has been reduced
to cover the advancing cost of flour and other in ilerlals and that a further Increaso
Is not JiiHlillible
faction of his colleagues In the face of his Ins and of Mrs. If Hue's relations to
iy
FOtlEOABT
rhUadelphta and vUslntthParv
r 04 Much rnU.. ...j,. . .,..
t """. iroaj7 touthicest and vest
IENOTII OF IHY
Tilt m ... -. ...
t?.?K,VEa T,DB PJAN0E3
J?JtS ft".'" ?!.
JtfB AT KtCI IIOPB
Hi 1UI 11. . .. .: .S : . ,
in ... ; ii i 3i 4i a
04 1 531 63
I I
repeated setbacks Impossible to u man of
his vision and patriotism Of thoaa col
leagues, writing; as I am an article which
will appear In some 800 American and Can
adian newspapers, I prefer only to say that
they wero men who wouldn't believe tho
war was coming; when It did, and who
hadn't un Idea of Its tremendous portent
for our race.
Jn my own newspapers at home I have
bolhiuci ou ! Thru, falumii Three
FHEEZE.UP FOB TONIGHT
Cold Wave Predicted After Day of
Rainfall Cloudy Tomorrow
The weather forecast for the next twenty
four hours Is Just one thing; after another.
Reports from the Wather Uureau this
morning; predict a. continuance of rain until
tonight, when the temperature will fall and
hover around the frmnlns mark.
Tomorrow will be partly cloudy with the
sun occasionally breaking through the
clouds, while the mercury will still stay
down around the thirties. The cold wave
will continue for several days, maybe
longer
Clruvuur were haziest, sat by her side and
patted her urm as In an. almcwt Inaudible
voice she gave her account of tho affair.
MHS I.K lll'C'S hTQUV
Mrs. I.e i)uc's story tf the shooting was
Mr. (Iraveur and I Jiad dinner on the
roof garden. When o went to his
room on the ninth Hoar to gt my
handbag which I had left there twrllttr
In the evening Mr Oravecr went In
side. I think I had in) hand on the
door knob I heard a volte and then
I saw a tall wouidn ins-Id go up to Mr.
Qraveur. Then I heard u shot and
saw him fall. Tiien there was another
shot and t knew 1 was wounded 1
turned and ran up the hall and up the
stalrwa) I dont remember an thing
elM.
When she had completed her testimony,
Mrs. I- Iue tried to rUw from the chair
In which she sat But ft was as though
she were petrified with fright. Her hist-
IbamP' lifted her up tenderly and took Inu
la a half fainting condition to th aide of
the courtroom,, where It was necessary to
sign a witness form iler hand shook so
she could, not steady the pea !.e Pile
Lrought her water She tried again and
"Oliver Osborne." who has been In tho
New York limelight ns a wrecker of women's
hearts, and has admitted that ha "loved
them all." Is said to hove been the tlince
of Miss Grace Francis, n milliner, who was
found dead In her home, 8 West Chellcn
avenue, hist Pebruar)
According to I ho police version of the
affair. Miss frauds committed suicide when
she discovered that her fiance was un
worth) of her lovb and had embezzled sev
eral thousand dollars given him to Invest.
He was said to be a bond salesman.
"Oliver Osborne" was arrested last Sun
day In Chicago His real name Is Charles
It. Wax. Secret service men had been an
his trail for more than a ear. Ho Is said
to have been the pun who made love to
Itae Tunzer and then disappeared, Ho has
been Identified by several women as a
'heart crusher."
Federal authorities have received word
from a woman that War, or ''O, O" was
responslbje for 'he suicide or Mlsa Francis
Dr. William a. Shields, Jr., HI West
ScllPOl House lane, who wan nAlltffl In tvl.an
yMtss Francis committed suicide, said today
mat he did not recall having heard of the
name of Osborne In connection wl'h Mis
Francis's death He said he knew that the
name of some, man did figure In the case,
POSBD AS SALESMAN
According to Detective Whitman, of the
Bue-Stratford, (he sultpr of Ms
Frit no! s posed as a, bond salesman He said
that the name the man used was Spencer,
and that for a short time he worked for a
bond firm on Chestnut street
Whltcomb said be, did not recall having
FIRE DAMAGES WOOLWORTH STORE IN OTTAWA
OTTAWA. Ont. Uce !. Fire In the heart of Ottnvva's buslncsu aectlon today
destroed the Interior of tho F. W. U'oolvvortli store and seriously damaged five
othora In the Titus block The loss Is estimated at moi than 1100.000.
U. S. FLEET ASSEMBLES FOR REVIEW AT HAMPTON ROADS
NOIU'O'.lC, Va, Ute Fifteen Frilled Staten warships. Including four aub.
tnarlneu and all of the new drciilnou-jhta of the navj. nsswnbleil In Hiimplon Hoods
today to participate In tho naval review which will be held here In connection with
the convention of tlm Southern Commercial Congress Secretary Daniels and other
(Jov eminent olllclals will levlevv the fleet.
RUSSIA SEEKS 100 MORE LOCOMOTIVES HERE
The Itusslan Oovernment has ordered 100 moie locomotives from the Baldwin
locomotive Works, which will tost ', 000.009 Tho locomotive are to bo large
frclitht engines and will cost approximately NO.000 each. The Huwiian Clovernment
placed orders for fmty locomotives vyltli I'dldwiwi several weeks ago, Thu whole
order will total 5,600.000.
COST OF LIVING SLUMPS ALL OVER COUNTRY
WASHINGTON. Dee fl The "cost of living" has taken a drop, Advkcw from
all sections of the country to the Department of Agriculture unci the Department of
Justice Indicate this. The reduction In prjws, while small, Is general. O.'llciala
believe that It will be continued.
C"tlnucJ on rase Tvto, Column Three !
C'eotlnucd ea Vase Tbrce. Column One I
NEW BOOST SETS RECORD IN PUDDLERS' WAGES
READING. Doc. 9 The, h,lgbet wagwe ever paid to puddlers in the Schuylkill
Valley will be paid to Uto of the Heading Iron Company's plants hern, beainnlnir
Monday, when another Incroaj. us unnountwU today, will go into ?', amounting
to about 18 a ton.
'UMjPi i PMB..IH1P i. m imp f-1 wi isu)i i .hi im ,,
FATE OFAMERieAN STEAMSHIP STILL UNCERTAIN
KKW yOItK, Dec 9 Uncertainty today still clouded the reported sinking in
the Mediterranean at the American steamship Virginia. Gaston, Wlllteraa wiir.
more, owners of the steamship thought to have gone down, had no- advice today I
eonctirnins her The Virginia was bound for Uenoa with a general cargo. I
KAISER WILHELM ir
I.ntcst photograph of the Gcrrnam
Lmporor. who presided over the
Teuton War Council just held it
tho German great hcndqunrtcriJ.
BERLIN, Dec. 9.
Kaity rcpubc of enemy -attacks in tho
Ccrna Rend, following n violent shelling
of height positions norlh of Monastlr
nnd northeast of Pnriovo, on the Mace
donian front, was announced by tho
War Office today. In the east upper
Tallinn Lal.e the Bulgarian vanguards
repulsed n British company's attacks.
i'ETROGRAl), Dec 9.
ItUBaian troops have dislodged tli9
enemy from Ua hcighta west nnd
south of Vaicputnn, taking 500 prig,
oners, today's olllcial statement said.
Six machine nuns, one cannon and two
bomb mortars were also captured.
nnttM.V, Dec 9.
A council of war has Just been held at .
Oerman CJrcat Hcndrpiarters, the Overaeaa
Noivs Agency reported today Those par
ticipating were Kmprror Wllllnm, Kmperop
Charles. Field Marshal von Hlndenburjr and
I'io'd Marshal Conrad von Hoetrendorff, tt
the AiiHtro-UiinKBrlan army, Emperpr yU
Ham presided nt the council It Is belljved
Hint tho next move of tho Central Empire?
wns discussed
LONDON, pec ?.
Whera will Germany strike next?
That Is the tiueetloii that is agltatlpj
nrltlsh military experts. There Is a grow
lug bollef, in the Allied capitals that the
Oerman nllles, after the conquest of Jtu
mania, will throw a great force Into Macs
donla and swing Greece into the war by a
master stroke around Monastlr
The possibilities are numerous If th,
Onniinn allien are- nble to sweep Human! '
clear, tho way would be nei.ed for nn in
vasion of Itussla by way of Besssrah'a?-
but there haB been no decisive Indication
that this Is Included In Von Hindenburg'a
plans ' t
It has been reported from time to time
that the Germans would make their next
stroke of arms against Italy, striving fir
crush that country as the smaller nat'owf
have Imu smashed
One thing, jMsttus to b? certain When
in Msrri allien attempt ttwlr next of
feilv It will ha In charg of Field Mar
shal von Mackensen. who lias proved him ,
sJt one Qt,h greatt soldiers of y ""
war, J3v.n the Allied military uwti py
Iwpage to tlie brilliant tactics and th tuf
rtfic enargy $ thj wonderful oW Qnwl"
soldier. ' ' -
H$isiatebi rojn the Bumantaij tbeatHf
at war today stated that the HiuttwilMi
were gi retiring They uullcattd a.I
that llje Ruseian offenstve la tha Ctrpft,
CvDlUiMd en t'aae Tw, twiajau ptam
eyoad
the Great Oblivion," by George Allan England, a Sequel to "The Vacant World," Begins on Page 5 of This i
-
IBSfe
giSWirLaeLasaaaeaaWBaHl
