BRING IN YOUR WANT ?
AD COPY BEFORE 6 P. 81.
Early Delivery of Sunday Wanl Ads In
sures Correct Classification
EARLY
SHOPPiiPtS"
oofc> AOS.
PA?
PRICE, TWO CENTS
PROTEST IN BEHALF
OF BELGIAN PEOPLE
United Stales Sends Note to Ger
many About Deportation
of Workmen.
PRESENTED TO CHANCELLOR
Regarded as Contrary to All
Precedents'and Humane Princi
ples of International Practice.
f Mr Ah?oi I'r' ns. I
WASHINGTON. December v.?'j'he
American government's formal protest
to Germany against I lit- deportation of
Belgialis f< r forced labor, as a viola
tion of 111?? ptI!!<? iple.s of liu 111atilty, was
made public 1 o-day by the state De
partment. It was In the form or a
note, cabled to Ghargc Grew, at Iterlin,
Vlth Instructions thai he seek an in
terview with tjie Gorman <'hnncellor
?Will read it to li I in, and way y | ven out
by tlir. department with the letse com
inen t:
"The Interview has taken place."
Officials refit *?>d t.. add to this state
ment, anil. so far as eotibl be learned
to-night, there has been no reply from
' ??-rttiany.
/?i! Inform :'i???i available. however.
Indicate? that the deportations are
continuing, and !t is known that
through f't i . ? ! n forma I r''|tri'sent;i ?
lions, Charge G rew learned that the
Gorman posit;..<) v.as 11. s? ? tin- polii \
u s a mil i I a iy ii esslty, and not in
vi<?ja t ion i.f inf.-. i tl.'tial law.
Tile A tl I e r i ? II t'Mio W.a ? toil <. n the
' able on N"\i-ml?' r the night ..f
the tiny Alub i -<1 i iii rnrd saw Presi
dent XVihmn m punitory to his return
t" Merlin, and niirht the Associated
Press annoum 1 tl.at the Cnitei]
Stales hart made further ro;.i e--. eta
tlons on Its own bo: ?1 f ..n the broad
grounds of huinanil-.
i*i-i* t i?TMi: \ i"*> *i*r \ti:>ii:\-r
in >i mum; miti; rriii.ic
'he note. with the department's
statement n:.iI;ini: it public. f?dlow.s:
"<?'l Nov ipI" i Mr. Crew, ,?lr
ehnrge nt Rerl >? u directed t? ,,h
1 an itit< r\ - w wth the German
Chancellor anil r nil to him the fol
lowing:
" "Th< u-> rum- n* ' the t'nited
Slate has l.arrd wth the greatest
cone rn nrul i-trf i ..f the (|. N ,,f
the Gi rmiin gov. rnine.it to d* port from
Meig|iim a port II I.f the . Ivllian popu
lation for tb. j>uri? *? se of f. j, i,iu tli'-m
to labor In f?i rui.tr..' . nod ...nstra io d
t4' protest III *i f T I ? lully spirit loll
111..-i solemn!.* this ill-lion,
which is a ?? iii in .rn j,.i, ,,f al1*pi<
oedenm and ..r 11 ii iii .i ti ** priii -
clplen of jut e i- iii* t iiuoi I plMfticc which
have long be. n a. . ept.-d anil followed
by civilized nations m then treatment
i.f in.ii. "mbai.iot.
" ?Knrtheriii.r . tl, . i niiient ..f
111. rtitled Stales ! . .11v111c? d that tile
? 11 <?' t ef t his |?.. i. \ , ,f p,j. , ,,,u 11| in
nil probability l < f?Ua| to the Belgian
relief work, .???? Iiuiiiiii.it planned ami
'sjfii:l ..hi ? >1 .on, a riMilt
whi. h wi.uld b. r.ill.% dep|?r. .l and
chilli, it i.s asHiiiil'il. wi.ubi seriously
eml.at rass tin German government.'
The interview has taken place."
Diri.miA'i'K? piiim i:i)t hi;
NOW Is i:\ll.\i STI-.I)
U ith the failure i.f America's efforts
as well as tlmse .,f Spain and lloll.ind.
an>! the Vatican, the only action which
officials here ajipa ri-ntl\ believe this
government can take, is the full pub
lication of the facts ill its possesion.
Admittedly, diplomatic procedure has
been exhausted.
I In* Belgian ilcportuiionn assumed
seriousness last Atlirust. when the Stat.
Department reports indicated their
wholesale cxi.-nt. Chary. Grew on
(ictober Oil was instructed to tuke
the matter up pef?,i,i;;. iJ\ with I'han
crllor von IS. tin am il .Ilw.^. a,,d to
say what an unfui-tunate ( ffect the
continuation of deportations would
have on neutral opinions
Charge Grew r- ported that the Chan
cellor hail heard bis presents* t Ion of
the case, bus had oty.,,,1 ncitli. i .-.v
planation nor pn.?? !>.. Tli. reupon a
series of conf. r.-nc.-w fciloiK-d in Wash
ington between pros id nt Wilson, Sec
retary Lansing, Anitas: ador Gerard and.
Colonel House, with the icsult that the
formal protest was ii? patcliod.
si:m? sk;m:i) nturiM
to <;r.Ni:u m. \o% hivmm.
I By Associated Prc.<!>. |
11A wlK, I' lIANi'K. I'fci'iiiber S.?
I u ent> Melgiaii Senators? ami twentv
thrc Melgiaf deputios living in lirus
h Is have taken tl.c personal risk of
sending a signed pl ot, si to Oen- ral von
Kissing. German Governor of Belgium,
against the deportations of Belgian
workmen. The Senators anil Deputies
at the same time sent copies of their
protest to Brand Whitlock. American
minister to Belgium, and to the diplo
matic reprofenf.itlives of other coun
tries.
on many occasions during modern
times," says the letter to the diplomats
in part, "civilized powers have inter
vened In favor of oppressed peoples.
Many times they have given protection
to persecuted populations driven from
their firesides, and yet tlie.ee peoples
were not carried off into slavery. It
remained for the frightful war of which
we wero the tirst victims, to offer such
a spectacle to the world. We are per
suaded that Belgium will not have ap
pealed In vain for the aid of your
government to protect it from the piti
less edict that violates at the same
time the rights of man and the fourth
convention of The Hague, with all the
laws of humanity.''
The letter to General Bissing begins
as follows:
"Kxcellency,? It seemed that no pain
cnuhl he added to tnose with which we
have been weighed down since the oc
cupation of our country. Our liberties
havo been abolished, our industry and
commerce annH?Vlnted. Our raw ma
terial and instruments of labor ox
(Continued on Second Pag.-T)
ItAI.TiMORR BY BOAT
At nil Reasons the most delightful wnl^r
trln In America. I'-i.,10 one way: $4.50 round
trip. YOIiK RlVElt LINE.?Adv.
Middle West to Get
New Armor Plant
Location Away From Coastal
Stales or I'rom l\car Canadian
Border V irtually Certain.
f Ity AhHorlato'l I'tchm.]
ASII IXGTOX. December S,?The
$ I I.OOO.OOo Kovcrnnient armor plant Is
j virtually certain to l?c loeated at .some
point in the Western area. It
was learneel here to-day. Some point
i having good connection with the min
. eral-Hupply sources anel transportation
facilities to coast points. hut sufll
riently remote to remove (lunger of
'leHtruetion hy any hostile invading
r"K I-, probahly will be selected
The .special naval hour.! appointed by
Secretary Daniels to consider military
aspects Of propose,l sites has submitted
( :? ' "port on whic h final choice of a
-it- will be based. It summarizes the
arguments of more than 12.*, cities
, seeking ,h? awarel. ;)n(, without af".
tempting actually to designate a site
presents the hoards Judgment ot
localities where the ,JC?, protection of
the factory would he afforded in time;
<'f war.
Although the report has not been
made public, it was learned to-day
that there l.s little. )f anv possibility
t.iat the plant will be located in any
tho coastal States or in i !o.so prox- '
Imity of the Canadian boreler.
I he board is understood to have foj.
lowed ?lot,ely tho advice laid down bv
' ongress concerning the location of i
ihe plant as a military problem by
eliminating front the fi.-M of possible!
selection all frontier States, partlcu
larly those of the North Atlantic, held j
by army strategists to comprise the
>t ? xposed areas.
STRAUSS GETS SEA DUTY
< lilef of Or.lnnncr Hurra,, ue.
I Ir ? ??<! of That Poult Ion n I
IK* "?n IteqncM.
I l)v Awl .??.! pros, j
| \\ ASIUXGTOX, December V ?"\ip
i ,a,n Jf,vr-r?h Strauss, for three years
; chief of the navy's ordnance bureau,
with rank of rear-admiral, has been
Kdleved ..f that duty at his own re
quest. so that ?,<? c.. to
?. ?. i.. 1 \ a j|i y,,. _-nr.?l fi command
Mrf:i'lti(i|^i t s Secre.
n. ceded to ! he request
? ???.?ids. ?' ? t:i111 Strauss, who is the
nnvys principal ordnance expert, has
i.enn Kept ashore s-> continuouslv that
he Is short of the sea service record
required for advancement under the
n< w selection system of promotions '
?'apt a i n Strands |P a Virginian. ap.
pointed to the Xaval A.adeinv j? KM
He was appointed chief of ordnance in,
!!M3. Me is a recognized international
authority on explosives and ordnance,
and under his direction the navy has
designed tho '.artrest gun ever projected!
"r nav:il use. the sixteen-lnch ,50-call- I
l.er weapon to !,e ??e,l on Ihe capital'
ships authorized for the coming year.
The transfer probably -vill become
?rfecHve :? I,Oil t the rtrst of the new I
?'aptaln Volncv ? ?. Chase, now'
I assistant t,? t.,lU.f ,){ opPratlons
j.rohably will be selected as the new \
??ad <.f t|,.> bureau of ordnance.
SHARP BREAK IN COTTON
I
Mom Molent I'luct untlein* of Pennon
nnd <?-,?. of "A IiIphi r>ee|lnc? on
Ne? Orleans Mnrliet.
I?v .* sm.i Inte.l Pres.-. ]
I XI-.W oui.KAXS. December s.?Tlie
; most violent fluctuations of the season
' nnd one of the widest declines ever
j ro<"or<'cd In any session of the local
market, cairiod the price of cotton at
one period to-day 103 to 11 :i points, or
j 5^ to r.n a bale, below the lex el of i
yest?M-da>'s close. Heavy lie,nidation
jo. lotig cot.tracfs and terrific hammer-t
:ug by short sellers caused the break,
which followed the larger Census bu
reau returns on winning to December I
1 than expected, and a rumor that'
I Greece had declared war on Kn stand
The early market was active, and!
business reached enormous proportions '
noon, when brokers were unable to
keep nh rea .st of the selling orders
wired in from all directions. This was'
the climax of the selling wave, fe.r in;
k the afternoon shorts bought liberal!
covers to realize their profits, and this
demand l-mv.: the market a steadier
tone, caiiaing n partial recovery. The I
close was at a net loss for the elav of
70 to ft!' points.
INSIST ON EIGHT-HOUR DAY j
30,000 ( lotliing ?or|i(.r? In Neir Vork
Mmpowfr I nle>n Officials to
Call Strike.
f By Assftolatprl Prwp, ]
N"F:\Y YORK, December 8.? Employ
ers in this city to-day were notified
that more than .10,000 members of <he
Amalgamated Clothing Workers of i
America had empowered the officials of!
the union to call a strike if the work- !
era do not receive the eight-hour day.
The vote was completed last night.
Some time ago the union serveel an 1
ultimatum upon the- American Clothing i
Manufacturers' Association and its sub- I
contractors, demanding an Increase of'
$1' a week in wages, and n reduction ?
in working hours. The wage increase.!
npgrfegatlng over $2,r.00,00(< ? year, was
granted, but no action was taken upon
the question of hours.
NOT TO QUIT CABINET
Ofl)r(:?l.? < lose to President Sny That
McAeloo nnil Houston Will
s.. Itemalii.
IHy Associated Press.)
\\ ASIIIXOTOX. December S.? In spite
of reiterated reports to the contrary,
oflicinls close to President Wilson in
sisted to-night that neither Secretary
McAeloo nor Secretary Houston will
retire from the Cabinet at the close of
the President's lirst term. Attorney
General Gregory, who returned lo-day
fwun Texas, refused lo say whether he
wVs planning to resign. In his case,
however, the reports are generally
credited among his friends.
Officials Will Lay Program Be
fore President and Attorney
General To-Day.
DETAILS ARE NOT DISCLOSED
Provide for Grand Jury Investi
gations Throughout Country
at Same Time.
i /iA -so' lu'???! I ~ 1
WASHINGTON, i >?(?? Olllcials
conducting the ki'vimiii.viiI's inquiry
into the high ost of living virtually
???>inj?ItI to-nmht a p.'oyra.n i" 5.1.? <? ? ?
to-morrow l>?-f?.???? President Wiison :iuil
Attoriiey-i letieral 1 !res.'oi y. providing
for simul'.aneous grand-}.i:y in vest iga
tions throughout the country Details
as to the numb* 1 anil locat.ons of the
proposed Inmiiri's were not disclosed
It was Hai'l that iloubt no longer cx
Isti'l as to whether thiie hail !????? ri
combinations to boost con! j?rjanil
that effective means to punish those
who have violated the law in con
tributing to t!ie rises \v < : being
studied.
President Wilson ami the I'.ibinet
discussed tlo> situation to-day, anil, it
Is unib-rst001I, ili'i'iilcl t?? await further
disclosures before renchinif eon
??lusion as to rio-ommenilations to 1 ???
tnaile bv the Pr? ^j?1 ?? nt to Congress.
not sh 1 mi xirrnoi-:
1 ji-:? inr.s tii ? aitio.v
In I'oriui' s\ nhe IlniiS" Commerce
Committee il? iil<? ?1 to defer a-tion on
measuns beivini; 011 the subject until
after Hi" holi.laj s.
I'nlteil .states Attorney Aiulerson, of
Itoston, corcMi'-t i ti?r tin- investigation,
esta blished headquarters at the I>e
partrmiit of ,i u.-; ice, called at the White
House, conferred for several hours
with Interstate Commerce Commission
olliclals. spent some time with Oliver
K. I'apMii, the department's expert 011
drawing !????.'.??tm-nts, anil dispatched
fresh if:.-t met jons to the field force of
iti veFt ica to-s t; rouuhotit ilie country
The Inters' ?. Commerce < 'otnniission
began work on a mass of informatiott
relating- < ;t ?hortatzo and coal slilp
ine-its for u?e 11 contemplated prose
cutions The two s'tuations. it was
said. were elosely related.
Indications ate that the ficparlmenl
of .1 ust ice will concent t ale on inn uiri ng
into the operations of coal dealers and
ftnlnor railroad employees in the Middle
West to determine whether cars were
deliberately withdrawn from normal
channels to aid hi Inceaslnu prices.
Ill Millions OK I.OA I >1' I) ? \IIS
I \ TO I < 111:1? IN It \ I l.lt O \ I) \ \ It ns
Interstate Commerce Commission sta
tistics are understood to show that at
tile height of the rise It price;; at
:t time when there was aii apparent
shortage in tiie stippli. hundred-' of
loaded ear- st ? 1 unt ud ed it' r'lioad
?.aril's ?> ih- Me We?t.
Some cats. 11t vest iga ! <>11 s s.iid t->
have (lis,;.. \ 1m- n hid loaded
front four to s:\ week.--, and one case
ha? been teported where a car had been
held, loaded. I'ji} d.'tys. Measurable
scarcity of refrigerator cats for ship
ment of r rishable foodstit(Ts was te
ported t" have been caused !?;? failures
of consignees to handle them promptly.
Whether this failure was part of a con
certed |>1.in to create :i cat shortage
and advance prices is under investiga
tion.
MAY INCREASE CANAL TOLLS
I'ov iIt11i t j of *ue'i lli-coni nirnilii t ion
Seen in Iteporl of I', ipenses and
Hcvmioi for Year l'.mled .Ftmr IIP.
I liv A -oi l.(toil I'ress. |
WASH IN< !T< >N, Do- ember S.-?Possi
bility of a recommendation for an in
crease in Panama Canal tolls is seen in
si statement to-d:iy of canal expenses
and revenues for the >ear ended June
.'{i. Kxpenses amounted to more than
double the receipts of the canal proper,
though if the revenues from the Pan
ama ltai!road are taken into consid
eration th" excess of expenditures over
revenues would he oi.lx 7~, per c,.nt,
SiAit had there been no slides during
the year the revenues would have ex -
eeed<"d expenses.
No allowance is made, however, for
a depreciation and interest fund which
would require $!'J.OOO.OOn a year. Total
expenses of the coin bi nod cun.'l and
railroad were ?29,327,50 1. and the re\c
tities were $'J7,:i3'.>.S$J>, or $I.!>S7.?!IT. less
than the expenses.
The statement shows that the Suez
Canal, whose tonnage has been falling
off rapidly, increased its rates twice
this year, and a further increase Is
announced far January 1. which will
ni'ike them fl.iiO tier toll for loaded,
?mil . $1 per ton for ballast, ships.
Panama tolls have remained at 51.20
anil 7"_' cents, respectively.
TOWN HIT BY TORNADO
Ilusiii^s* Section of Atlanta. I.a.. Vir
tually Is Demolished Chilli Ite
porlcd Killed.
I My Associated Press 1
ATLANTA, LA.. December S A tor
nado which swept over Atlanta early
to-day virtually demolished the busi
ness section, causing a loss of about
S-Kt.000. Among the buildings de
stroyed were the Catholic, Methodist
rind Baptist Churches and the depot of
the Louisiana Hallway and Navigation
Company. Two men were slightly in- i
hired and a child was reported killed.
OPERATIVES GET INCREASE j
Approximately ir.,Otid Cotton .Mill
Workers In Maine to llreelve
10 Per Cent Halsc.
I lly Associated Press. |
HOSTON. December 8.?Operatives in
virtually all of the cotton mills in
Maine will receive an increase of about
10 per cent, beginning January J.
There arc approximately 15,000 cotton
mill workers in Mulno.
Allied Shipping-Warned
(o Look Out for Raider
I My A<<?. t:i*? .1 I'riv-ji. I
IIAI.Il'A.V, \. v.. Jl,Ilirr S
r*ni?*nl<* tiMi<*d ?li!|>i>Iiik \i:in m*rnnl
t?<-!i!?lil ? Id' ???? I In* looUonl for u
(?IrilllKf ? CKM'I, lll'lll'VCll III III' II
rnidcr. wlili-li *.\ :i i Intercepted on
I >?>?-?? in lir r - i?fl? (lie iMirlliwrKtiTn
const of Scut In ml mill iillimi-d i
pi'IM'CCll, UlllIlT (!?<? till |>rvSHl<lll llllll
mIii* \yiiM flu- llilli'li Mcmucr liiiiniiiu.
I.nlcr It win learned lluit tlie
(? ti in its ?i ?li? nt liirk>tiill on tliat
dntis nnil iliil not lemo until De
CI'til Iter It.
Tlic identity of the Ktipitoii'd
raider lili.H not lircn determined.
Admiralty iitlicinls apparently mum
lii'i't tluit if Mho Im n hoxtlli* i-riift,
hlif may Mirrj' in I nr.s for ilropptiiK
oil' till* port, ti enter of MritlNh
iinvril activity of tln? c->tif incut, and
tin' point of departure for t aundliiu
troop Mliipn. Tin* u".mI i'oiiIiI reach
h from tin* pox 11 Ion nhrrr she
huh liiKt reported liy to-morrow or
Sunday.
EGGS DROP MOTHER CENT
UNDER FORCE OF 80IC0TT
Dealers Attempt to l/nlnad, but De
cline to Credit Slump
to KiiiI)ui*ko.
Kl'.MOKS OK POTATO CORXER
Housewives lleur Keport That HJelt
Miontl Syndicate Has Stored Vast
(Quantity of "Murphy*" to lie Held
for Higher Prices.
I ?oVfl<ipni?*iits (hiring ?oe ?*L<ond day
of Richmotid'g tight to reduro the hi?h
cost of living resulted yesterday in a
decline of 1 cent per iloicii fop eic^s,
which, coupled with heavy receipts on
the market and slow sales in the retail
trade, brought traces of demoralization
in the wholesale district. Varied quo
tations on eggs were made by the
various dealers in an attempt to dis
pose of their supplies, but denial was
made that the condition had been
caused by the boycotts.
I 'rices on the Richmond Produce
.Market, as prepared f,.r The Tirn-s
IHspatch by U. Ctirri ? X- Co.. showed
;? decline of ^ cents from Thursday.
(Quotations dropped to as cents Mat for
country "??ckh, as compared with XV to
4<"? cents per dozen the previous day.
There was no clianue in the turkey
situation, with few fowls on the mar
ket, and sales very light. Market con
ditions In Cary Street were reported
as follows
"Poultry market in unsettled comll
t ion!
"Kegs?Market dull and lower.
"R utter ? Market unsteady and
lower."
I.IIAlil K M\> ASK l''(li(
ttl'Klt lA I. I \ \ KS'I KiATION"
M i-ant itiie. oflicers of the Housewives'
league of Hlchinond are going forward
mi their light against the prevailing
ich prices, and plans for an elaborate
.. .>aig:i are 1m inn worked out. t'om
mitti s are engaged in gathering1
prices of various commodities, and i*
is probable that oflicial investigations
will be asked.
? irertt indignation is felt by the con
sumers over tti?* reported attempts of
? Richmond s\ ndicate to "corner" the
local potato market, which was brought
out several days ago at a meeting of
the executive committee of the league,
and efforts will b<> made to learn the
I Identity of these behind the move
I m> rsl The syndicate is said to he coin
i r> i?ei| of three or four local dealers.
Current reports, all knowledge of
which is denied in Cary J-'C'eet. are
1 thtit potatoes valued at S250,0flt> are
| stored in warehouses in the wholesale :
district, ami that still further supplies j
: are being sought. The commodity is
being held, it is stated, for .higher j
I prices. |
Probably one of the most important {
I developments affecting Richmond is J
i th" general break in the C'hb ago J
I produce market which has occurred j
during the past two days. This mar
ket is said to be one of the trreatest
cans' s for ic prevailing abnormal
prices, and is the chief one against j
I which the national boycotts have been
directed. Th<re ire evidences that
th- steps are being f? ? 11 in that city, i
wh'f' speculators arc said to have
placed in storage vo.U quantities of
foodstuffs and are holding them for
. \orbitant prices.
IIKt I.INK IN t "II K'A <?<?
is iti:n,K<Ti:i? iii;ri;I
As a result of the decline in Chicago. J
there was a general movement to un-j
load, it was s-iid. but this action |
reached no gnat proportions. It be-'
cane known in Richmond yesterday j
afternoon that ten carloads of eggs i
w ere In transit from that city to Rich- j
mond. While these eggs, it. was as- J
sertod, cotibl be taken by a few deal- i
ers in Richmond, there was a general j
belief that tin' cold-storage market
in ibis city would be forced down ;
slightly upon thr receipt of the ship- j
ment.
While there is said to he only a
small quantity of eggs in storage In j
Richmond?less than normal at this 1
season in certain quarters yesterday!
a decline in eggs was expected on the
grounil that a quantity of eggs In
warehouses would hiive'to be sold he
fore January 1. or further storage ar
rangements made. This is despite Iho
fact that eggs have always sold for i
fancy prices during the holiday season, j
.'ev.-ral commission men cxpla ineil |
yesterday that the de-line in eg^ prices'
was the result of hel'.vy receipts on !
the market from near-by sections, but |
a 'number of retail dealers reported j
that very few rales had been made
during the day.
I'lti'.sii r.tiiis at iK'rr.vrs
(?KKi:ili:il OX SIXTH ST It 10 KT
i >nc dealer 111 tl'.e Sixth Street sec
tion was selling fresh eggs, which he
claimed were purchased direct from
the farmer, at 18 cents, but said he
(Continued on Second Page.) *
HE URGES SUPPORT
FOR LLOYD GEORGE
Retiring Premier Asquith Calls
Upon Liberal Party to Forget
Personal Grievances.
PRESS AND PUBLIC STIRRED
New Prime Minister Expected to
Submit Full List of Minis
ters to King To-Day.
I-O.v : December S.?Spile mid
; veriKcan< ? are not in the make-up of
| Herbert M squith.
Do proved 'his to-day when in an
impassioned pie., for unity he called
' upon the Liberal pa tv, of which he is
j tii.> loader, to forget all p. rsonal
t;rievaiues ami to rally, for the .sake
? f the nation, around tin? man who
forty-eight hours ago overthrow hlin
and his (foverrimfiit.
Whatever ministry David Lloyd
C<*orge formed, tli.* ex-Premier urged,
should have unqualified. whole-hearted
support of the Liberal party. lie him
self would do "whatever I can to fa
cilitate tlie task which has fallen Into
| other hands," said lie.
In the midst of the most sensational
government shake-up Knglund has s?e?
since tlx* outbreak of the w.ir, this
exhibition of self-effacement and
1 patriotism to-night stirred the press
and public of the l/t.it-d Kingdom to
*:ithusiastic ailmIralion.
Apart from this inspiring incident,
the day brought no concrete d>*velop
: ments tending to settle the <|U<-stion
as to how far Lloyd Ceorge has pro
gressed in his work in forming a coall
j tiori ministry.
Late to-night the "best bet" was seen
I in this slate:
''haneeilor of the Exchequer. Andrew
l-!onar Law.
Secretary of Foreign Affairs. A. .1.
j Pal four.
I'irst Lord of the Admiralty, Sir
Kdward Carson.
Secretary for War. Lord Derby,
j Secretary for Labor. Arthur (lender
, soil.
o'l'ii i :it roitccA.sTs Kit mi
\\ i:i.i.-im-<iuiii;i) ( iitci,i:s
"'her lorecasts coining front usually
well-informed circles name r.onar Law
j for th.* Admiralty :* Italfour for the
Colonies; Cut7.on for the Foreign Sec
i retaryshlp. and Lord Dearing. for
j t he Lord ChapceUorsh ip. Winston
| '?lnirrhlll was prominently mentioned
for the presidency of the Hoard of
: Trade, to succeed Walter Hunriman.
The Premier is expected to submit
bis full list to the King some time to
morrow.
Details leaked out to.da;, about yes
terday's conference between the new
Prime Minister and the Labor leaders,
j Lloyd iJeorge. It is said, laid beTon*
hi* visitors h program r?f reform so
sweeping that some timid voices were
raided expressing foreboding." of op
position to measures that might be too
I radical
; These were the principal stops fore
shadowed by tin; new Premi>A.
The fullest possible mobilization of
I tho nation's industrial and economic
! resources.
(Establishment of a Ministry of La
bor. to bo such not only in name, but
In authority and deeds.
Nationalization of all mines and
shinning, and possibly of all railroads.
[ Representation of labor at the peace
! conference following the end of war.
Industrial mobilization did not ap
peal to all those present. Some sug
gested that this would mean indus
trial conscription.
kiioi m :s.s oi * im it pom:
Right then and there Llo.vd Ceorge
displayed his firmness of pqrpos. and
made it clear thai selrtsh objection.*
on the ground of "individual liberty
would not stop him in hjs path of re
form. Diplomatic as his reply was its
substance was little short of "suppos
ing it did mean that; it must be de
fca t ed."
Mr. A s<| it it It's appeal to the Liberals
name at a party meeting at which he
presided. Those who had expected the
ex-Premier to launch into a vitriolic
tn.-nie against his successful foe and
successor were/ sorely disappointed
Instead of urging a light lo the linish
on the wrecker of his Cabinet, the
retiring Prime Minister preached a
sermon of patriotism.
Calmly, suavely, with not the slight-'
inkling 01 grudge or disgruntle
num. he made his confession of faith.
At the outset Mr. Asqnitli told the
assemblage that his relinquishing the
premiership did not mean abandonment
"l Hie leadership of the Liberal party j
Th. ii he told of a carefully engineered
"Inn that had been carried on atr.-iins.
bit" and \ Iscount CJrey. the Foreign i
-??cretary. lie hastcneil. however to
emphasise that Lloyd Ceo,go had had
?" ha ml in this. Nor were his col- I
leagues in the retiring coalition min- i
Istry parties to it, he assert* il.
In a brief recital of tiie circumstances ?
that led t.. |,is fall ami the rise or his
?pponent. lie couilrmed that the rela
tionship bet wet 11 the war council and
the Premier was the chief bone of con
tention in tin- ?ontroversy with Lloyd
Ceorge. His own refusal to be a ?
"ligurehoad," a mere spectator of the j
war. without a leading role in th.< war
council, led to his resignation. There I
was a leak somewhere, lie intimated.
Through v. hat lit. described as a breach
? ?f confidence, the newspapers hud ob
tain, d some premature information. !
?x K-iiii he exonerated Lloyd Ceorge,
however, saying he had accepted the
latter'n disclaimer.
I IKiKS I M'l'KI) > | IM'OKT
OF MOW (id \ i:h \ >| K\T
I hen lie urged the united support
of the new govern nent by the Liberal
party. Ilis own "solo object," said he.
would be to lend "such help us I can
lo the new government In tho grout
task confronting them."
Suffragettes, who so often during his
(Continued on Second Page,)
Roosevelt Plans
to Hunt Devilfish
Will Join Dancillc Man Next
March in Search of Strange
Marine Monster.
[Special t" The Times-Dispatch.)
OANVII.LK, VA.. December *.?Theo
dore Itoosevelt lias forsaken big-game
hunting for devilfish hunting for the
time being. has canceled his proposed
irip to Polynesia ami the South Seas,
i ami will Join Kussell J. Coles, of Dan
j vtlle. In a hunting trip next March,
according to information brought hero
i to-night by Mr. C?>l*s, who is Just
back from <' stcr Bay.
I The Colonel has definitely arranged,
savs Mr. Coles, to become one member
of his crew of f.vc wl.o wM sail from
Punta ?Jorda in a power sloop next
March in search of this strange marine
mons'er, on which Mr. Coles is an au
thority.
Colonel Itoosevelt will iinance the
I expedition, but the fruits of it will go
to the American Museum of Natural
History in New York. Mr. Coles is a
: brother of County Treasurer T. J.
<"oles, and is a tobacco-leaf dealer
! here.
TESTIMONY FOR TEIPER
Mis Vi?tlirr-ln-l.n%T nnil Sinter* of Mor
dered .Mollier Appear In Helinlf
of Defendant.
I By A.wlnti>i| Press 1
BUFFALO, December S.?That John
Edward Telper curly in January told
bis father-in-law. Alton II. Newton,
that lie had abandoned the idea of buy
?nfr the Orchard Park brickyard, which
^/he was then operation on a lease, Mr.
j Newton swore to-day, testifying In
j Teiper's trial on the charge of murder
' ing his mother. The prosecution has
j maintained that Teiper's desire for
$30.0 >0 to buy the brickyard furnished
i a motive for murder.
Mrs. Elizabeth Ba>s"vl and Mrs. Alice
Spademan, both of Detroit. sisters
? Mrs. Agnes Teiper. the murdered
! woman, testified that they had ob
served none but friendly relations in
the Teiper family.
There will l>e no session of court
; to-morrow, but counsel <>n both sides,
j accompanied by a referee, will continue
\ the taking of testimony from Grace
Teiper, survivor of the tragedy, at her
| home.
BOUGHT IN FOR $2,000,000
Mndlnon Square (.nrdfr Sold to ?ir
Vork tilfe Intuirnnce Company fu
ller Foreclosure Proceeding*.
I H\ Associated Press. I
NKW V')KK, December S.?Madison
i kijuare Garden, New York's famous
\ amusement ampltheater, was pur
| ehased to-day for $2,000,000 in a fore
closure sale, by the New York Life
Insurance Compnny. which was the
only bidder. The company was the
plaint iff in Gie foreclosure proceedings.
Tex Itickard. promoter of boxing
bouts, announced to-night that he is
negotiating with the insurance com
pany to lease Madison Square Garden
| in behalf of certain persons with
whom he is associated.
"I have made an offer to the new
owners of the (Sarden," he said, "to
take over the whole building for a
period of either live or ten years. 1
am hopeful that we will irei the ampl
theater. and expect to-morrow to con
fer with the new owners about the
matter."
PLANS RESCUE ATTEMPT
SliiicUlctnn \\ III Sail on Decemli ? Ht
for Ito.xN Srn In Senrcli of Men
Marooned There.
I By Associated Press 1
LONDON, December 8.? Sir Krnest
Shack let oil will sail from Ounedin,
, New Zealand, for Uoss Sea on Decem
ber 10 to rescue the members *? f his
1 Antarctic expedition marooned tlu-re,
in-cording to n Hcuter's dispatch from
Wellington. The explorer will take his
auxiliary ship, the Aurora.
The ten men whose rescue Sir Krnest
will "attempt are Ca|.tnin Mackintosh
and nine members of the crew of the
Aurora, who were marooned in the
neighborhood >>f the Boss burrier when
the ship broke away in a blizzard !
twentv-'iue months ago. They had!
only a scant> supply of provisions at ;
that tiMe. and nothing has been heard
from t hem sine..
LIQUOR QUESTION IN SENATE
Consideration of Bill to Prevent Manu
facture and Sale In Washing
ton In Begun.
I By Associated Press 1
WASHINGTON, December ? Prohi
bition legislation was forced into a
point of vantage to-day. when the j
Senate, on motion of S nator Sheppard. |
of Texas, began consideration of the ?
bill to prevent the manufacture anil |
sale of liquor in the national capital.
Senator Cnderwood. of Alabama, an
nounced that he would press for an
amendment for a referendum on the 1
issue to the people of the District of
Columbia.
The prohibition bill's advantage,!
however, turned out to be brief, and .
when the Senate adjourned, it had
not been made the unfinished business, j
as was expected. Senator Sheppard
announced he would press It at every i
opportunity. I
PRESIDENT DECLINES
TcIIm % Irglnlan* He Mill \ot lie Able
to Attend Southern Commercial
fongrrnn In .Norfolk. ..
I By Associated Press 1
W ASII) N Or T O N. December 8.?
President Wilson to-day declined an
Invitatioi extended him by a delega
tion of Virgii.ians to attend the con
vention of the Southern Commercial
Congress at Norfolk next Monday. He
told the delegation that it would be
absolutely Impossible for him to ac
.cept.
TEUTONIC FORCES
CONTINOE PURSUIT
OF ROUMANIANS
Berlin Chronicles Advance
Still in Progress Along
Whole Front.
MEET LITTLE RESISTANCE
! FROM RETIRING DEFENDERS
j Troops of Von Mackcnsen Cap
ture 18,000 Prisoners and
Twenty-Six Guns.
! FIGHTING IX Vtinnrx REGION
'
I Germans Driven From Sertlou of
Trench Which They
Had Taken.
I Bv Atfffnctatecl Pr*H>?.l
Pursuit of the retiring Russian and
Roumanian forces' in teastern Wallachia
by I'i?_?!?! Marshal von Mackcnsen con
! tlnues, but how far tho Teutonic ad
! vanoo lias progressed Is not made clear
; In the latest otllcial communication.
| Berlin chronicles the. continuation of
j the advance along the whole front, and
| Petrograd says tiie Russians and Rou
[ manians have been retiring since tho
1 evacuation of th"> Roumanian capital.
Seemingly, the retiring defenders of
i Roumanian soil are offering little re
| sistance, and are endeavoring to reach
| the lino of the Ruzcu River before the
! Austro-German forces can break the
| Moldavian frontier and pet in their
| rear, or the Bulgarians and Germans
cap cross the Danube around Tch?*r
navnda and outflank them. However,
there has been little activity either on
the Transylvanlnn-Moldavian frontier
or in Dobrudja. The Germans have re
pulsed a Russian attack in the Trotus
valley. and the Russians report tho
checking of an offensive movement in
the Oitnz Valley. Petrograd says all
has been calm In Dobrudja and along
tho Danube.
I VON MACKK.VSKN CAPTI UKS
TOT A1. OK is.ono IMUSONHItS
In the rounding up of the forces cut
off by their advance on Hukharest. the
troops of Von Mackensen have captured
IS.000 prisoners and twenty-six guns.
The Roumanian troops Isolated In
Western Walluehiu, numbering S,000.
have been taken, as well as 10.000 of
the forces operating around Pretleal
and A Itch Ant Passes.
TTndeterred. apparently, by the check
ing of their offensive in the Car
pathians. the Russians have again
taken the initiative there. Petrograd
states. The present Russian attempt
Is taking place south of .larovnlk. Ber
lin says the Russian offensive in tho
Carpathians can be said to be a failure,
and declares only local attacks have
occurred in that reg-ion.
The repulse of a Russian attack on
the Dvina front below Riga also Is
recorded by Berlin.
Hill 304, in the Verdun region, and
the forest of Apremont, southeast of
St. Mihlel, have been the scenes of the
only reported activity on the western
front. Paris claims the Germans were
| ejected from a section of the trenches
on hill 304, but Berlin asserts the
troops of the crown prince repulsed
French attempts to retake the trenches.
The' Germans, Paris records, succeeded
in gaining a foothold in French
trenches In the forest of Apremont, hut
later were ejected by a counterattack.
| Heavy lighting around Struvina. ;ast
of Monastir, on the Macedonian front,
j is recorded hy Paris, which says the
Serbians checked three attacks by Ger
mans and Bulgarian troops. Serbian
attacks near Trnovu. west of Monastir,
were repulsed, Berlin states.
Snow In the Trentino region and rain
in the Carso are hampering Infantry
action on the Austro-Italian front.
FUKXril ATTACK TAII.S
OX VKit III \ FRONT
( nv Associated V refs 7
liKI'.l.lN, December S (via Sayville).
? An a t tack was made by French
troops yesterday on the Verdun front,
in an effort to recapture trenches taken
by the Germans on bill 304. The
failure ?>f this attack is announced In
lo-day'n ?'oniiniinica tion from army
licadqua iters.
IM It.St IT OF HOI MAMA.VS
IS 1IKI.VC* tDMIMMI)
BKRL1N, December S (via Jjaj vllle).
?Attacks made by Russian troops yes
terday in tho Ludova region, in the
Carpathians, and in tho Trotus Valley,
on the Northern Roumanian front, were
repulsed with heavy losses, the War
Otlice announces.
Roumanian troops retreating from
the Predeal and Altschanz Passes were
cut off by Teutonic forces, and most
of tUem h.ive been captured. In West
ern Roumania the pursuit is being eon
tinuod l>y the Austro-German troops,
which yesterday took more than 10,000
prisoners.
The statement follows:
"Front of Archduke Joseph: After
the failure of the great relieving of
fensive in the Carpathians, the Rus
sians have only undertaken local at
taeks. Yesterday they several times
drove against, our lines on the. I^udova
and in the Trotus Valley. They were
sanguinarily repulsed.
"Front of Field Marshal von Mack
< tisen: Our advance against and across
tho Buklmrest-Ploeehti line proceeded
so rapidly that the Roumanians located
in the frontier mountains, In tho Pre
deal ami A Itsehanz Passes had no
chance to retreat in time. On their
retirement they encountered Oerman
and A us tro-Hungarian troops, and be
ing pressed from the north, a majority
of them already has been made
prisoner.
"Between the mountains and the
Danube the pursuit is procuudlng. The
Ninth Artny yesterday took more thart
10,000 prisoners. On the Alt, the RoU'
manians cut oft In Western Roum&nKi
