Mtettea -
ppr ba sere be& anMgzod
adMrwti s pbsMemnl
NO. 3702. ansa-mast WAMNGTON, D. C.. SATURDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1916. . ONE CENT
ASQUITH STANDS
* BENED GEORGE
Famaer Preiier Makes hmpas
sioned Plea e Spbort
of Hi Suecessor.
(W fte inteesesmai New sometS
Leade . Dec. L_-Spite and vengeance
are not in the make-up of ct 3
No p-d this t"day whas to an ins
pmandmd vim for unity be eoaed ages
So iberal party, of which be is the
111r. to forget an pemmmal griewv
and to ManY. for the sak of the asm.
arrund th uses who forty-elaht hoers
age overMtber hhm and his go
Whatever No.Iamy David Lloyd George
frm-s the e M Ad. .sh"ld have
the ugquaumsed whebhsarted .pprt of
the Liberal party. Be bmaif wadd do
"whatever I can to aIDf the ta*
which has falles tote other hoda,"
said he.
in the mIdst of the me t s.esdm~A
goverpment shake-up Naglsad baa sm
mines the outbreak of the war. this ex
hibiltion of self-afaoemmnt and paumm
tonight stirred the prom and public at
the United Kingden to enthumijes ad
miration.
Psebuhbe Elate iven.
Apart from this tenmibttg mnci#..t the
day brought no concrete developments
tending to settle the question as to how
far Lloyd George has progressed Ap his
work of forming a new coalition ministry.
Late tonight the "best bet" was seen
in this sawe:
Chancellor of the Exchequer. An
d drew Bonar Law.
Secretary of Foreign Affairs. A. J.
Balfour.
First Lord of the Admiralty. Sir
Edward Carson.
Secretary fo War. Lord Derby.
Secretary Labor. Arthur Hen
derson.
Other forecasts coming from usually
well informed circles name Bonar Law
for the admiralty: Balfour for the colo
nies; Curson for thq foryign secretary
ship and Lord Re adi for the Lord
Chancellorship. Winotn Churchill was
prominently mentioned for the presdency
of the board of trade to succeed Walter
Runciman.
The premier is expected to submit this
full list to the King sometime tomorrow.
Details leaked out today about yester
day's conference between the new pimg
minister and the labor leaders. Lloyd
George, it in said, laid bef9re his visitors
a program of reform so sweeping that
some timid voices were raised expressing
forebodings of opposition to meaores
that might be too radical.
Te Wehelise Roesusee.
These were the principal steps fores
j shadowed by the new premier:
The fullest possible mobiliation of the
nation's industrial and economic re
sourees.
Establishment of a ministry of labor
to be such not only in name but in au
thority and deeds.
Nationalisation of all mines and ship
ping and possibly of all railroads.
9 Representation of labor at the peace
conference following the end of the war.
Industrial mobilization did not appeal
to all those present. Some suggested that
this would mean Industrial conscription.
Right then and there Lloyd George
displayed his firmness of purpose and
made it clear that selfish objections on
the ground of "individual liberty" would
not stop him in his path of reform.
T)plomatic as his reply was. its substance
was little short of "supposing it did mean
ltis: it must be done."
Mr. Asquith's nppeal to the Liberals
e-1me at a !arty meeting at which he
resided. Those who% had expected the
former premier to launch into a vitriol
tirade against his successor, were sorelf
disappointed. Instead of urging a fight
to the finish on the wrecker of his oabi
nt. the prime minister preached a ser
mon of patriotism. Calmly, suavely, with
not the slightest inkling of grudge, or
dimruntlement, he nmde his epnfession
of faith.
10,000 RUMANIANS
TAKEN BY GERMANS
Prisoners "Bagged" After Capture ot
Bucharest-Ploesci Railway.
special Cable to The wahaiton HRsld.
Amsterdam. Dec. 8.-The capture of
10.00W Rumanian prisoners "hetweed" the
mountains and the Danube," was an
nounced by the Berlin war *otes today.
The majority of these prisoners were
bagged" by the Teutons after the cap
ture of the Bucharest-Ploesci Railway.
which placed King Ferdinand's forces
in th. Transylvanian foothills between
two pursuing armies. The Berlin state
mnent also reports the surrender of .000
Rumanian troops on the Alt River. These
prisoners are believed to constitute the
bulk of the Rumanian fores that was cut
off at Orgira after the capture of Cral
ova
A report issued tonight by the Kaiser's
war office reads:
"In Rumania our prosecution gained
Trerran."
Since the fail of Bucharest the offeial
accounts emanating from Berlin are
marked by lack of details. Nothing is said
of the present location of the armies of
F'ajkenihayn and Mackensen. Petrograd.
however, announced today 4at Teuton
forces have taken the offensive on the
Moldavian front in the Ottuts Alley.
FARXERS PLARN OYCOTT.
eLouisyiine. Ky.. Dec. 3.-As a result
of the local boycott on butter and eggs,
which is fostered by the Woman Suffrage
Association. local merchants are facing
the probability of a retaliatory banp.b
Kentucky farmners againnt all pe
manufactured in or 'oered for sale
through this city.
LAWT I1 QUICEBAND.
-Stony Point, N. Y.. Dee. .-8meked tto
a bed of quieendm Joseph Block, of
Seuthade. last his lifela loida vil
lage a few mile. fram his homne, ad
hi hee wee hirted up to its neek.
, oblks body wee net resevered ner
was the wae.
"Land ofth y 3et' Oth.
LaeWatg 7 I .s. daily: du
Natim's Dy
(Wg Eadmiassese Neos Serg""
Durham N. C., Do. ll1'ehe
North Carelia Conforenes of the
Methodist Upisoopo elhura
South. rprosentiag T.104# o1ay
men and 280 ministers. Is annual
conference here. memorialleod
Oogres to enaot iegilation
prohibiting the sale of iquor in
the District of Columzb and to
forbid the use of male to whichy
literature. The pnemorials will
be sent to both houses of Con
green.
The general assembly of North
Carolina was petitioned to re
strict the sales of speelsed pat
ent medicines. Most, 4ne, and
iron, numerous bitter., extisot
of lemon and vanilla, and Ja
maica ginger wore named as
propriety medicine@ used as bev
erages, and it is claimed they are
troducing drunkards.
"DRY D. C." BiLL
MAY BE BLOCKED
Immigration Measure Likely
to Sidetrack Issue.
A well-directed movement to force the
immigration bill upoh the Senate next
Moday displacing the Owen corrupt
practices act an the unflunshed busines.
threaten, to blgck temporarily, at least,
the Sheppard District prohibition bai,
which very nearly came to a vote yes
terday when the Texas senator caught
the "wet" force, napping.
It wi mean a chlb for right-of-way
in the Senate. as a result of an agree
went to refer the corrupt practices bill
back to committee to have it rewritten.
Senator Smith, of South Carolina, chair
mn of the Committee on Immigration,
who hag been on the "war-path" ever
since d'resident Wilson first vetoed his
immigration bill, Intends to press vigor
ously for Its consideration by the Senate
when the motion to re-commit the cor
rupt bill in one of the strongest aggre
gation of votes over mustered out in
favor of a bill that has received Sbeau
tive disapproval, and its advocates are
confident it will be made the uilnkhod
busine.s
1111g0r Sheppard. bewever, is not
%Ied at the way thing, are pro
grising. He Intends to put all his energy
into an effort to have him prohbition
measure recognized and will not give
up until a mority decides against him.
Aiding in the prohibition fight are many
"dry" Senators who are also warm sup
00-nTIrNED ON PAG THEW
TRAGEDY OF FREE LOVE
STIRS PRESS OF JAPAN
Trio of Intellectual Leaders Involved
in Stabbing Afray.
(y the jateratioal News serviee.)
Tokyo, Dec. 8.-A near-tragedy involv
ing two promiprt members of the wom
an's movemen n Japan. and an author
of nation-wide reputation. has thrown
Japanese social and intellectual circles
I into a turmoil.
Sakave Osugi, a socialistic author-nov
ellst I's in the hospital with a dagger
wound in his breast, and Miss Ichiko
Kamichika. a champion and agitator of
woman suffrage, is in jail, charged with
attempted murder. The incident also has
involved Mrs. Noyes Tto. 22, conductor qf
a woman', magazine. The pres, has
Iaunched a campaign against the perils
of "advarced thought and free love."
Osugi went to the seaside for his hehlth.
Mrs. Ito accompanied him. Miss Kami,
chika followed them and spent several
days as their guest at an ind. It In said
they all occupied the same room. On
Thursday morning Miss Kamichika
stabbed Osugi with a dagger. She did
not harm M~rs. Ito. of whom it Is said
she %as extremely jealoug.
GERMANS SET NIGH RATING.
Chiebo. Dec. 8 -Howard B. Woolston,
of the College of the City of New York.
says that next to the native American the
German ranks the best citisen of the
United States.
Woolston lists, the nationalities in the
following order. with respect to good
citizenship: Native Americans irat, Ger
mans second. English third. Poles, Rus
slans and Jews fourth, Scandinavians
fifth. Irish sixth. French-Canadians sev
enth. Austrians. Slavs eighth, Italians
ninth, and negroes tenth.
1,000 ACRES FIRESWEPT.
Hagerstown. Md., Dec. 3.-While one
of the two big forest fire, that devan
tated large timbher tracts on North and
South Mountains is under control. the
lavgest and moat disastrous one, which
yesterday croesed the summit of Siluth
Mountain Into Frederick county, is burn..
ing with unabated fury. About one thsou
sand acre, in Washington and Frederick
counties have been fireewept.
WOMAN NAY REN ROAD.
Guifport. Mi.... Dec. 3.-The Gulf and
Ship Island Railroad may have a woman
president after Monday, when the direc
tars mooet at Buffalo. Misa Grace Jones,
pretty and heires, to the lefts
by her inther, Capt. J. T. Jwho
died Wednesday. ha. been aag4her
hther's intereats, including the railroad.
saine he wan taken ill. She han done so
well her retention is expected,
FiAN TO INPROTE NAVY.
New e7rk, Dee. 1,-The navy -amnmne1
et te timalSecurity Leagne, in co
p-=" with the umanimon. instruction
of 40 members of that body, today' began
the cofetida of 'data beaded to advise
and idcte to the Pederal govemnmeat
whatsm be dear to - metemse
saeas the Iarss Weassa
Gov E RNME NT
EMPLOYE
VZO >Lm
'**
A Blondin of
DOOMS H C.OF Le Th O .0
Wilson Ready to Prosecute fr Intematteuai NO
Manipulators of Prices. AmSeda. 1cc
Perusal of today's
President Wilson Is said to have indi- patches reveals many
cated during the cabinet meeting yester- that the Teutons. at
day that the government agents Investi- the Rumania* camps
gating the high cost of living have found tablishing their front
evidence sufficient to justify the indict- the northeastern Part
ment of certain shipping combinations. kan kingdom, wilt ding
"The President is prepared to strike Part, If not the bulk
quickly and he will strike hard If neces- of Field Marshal voE
sary to reduce food prices," said a White and Gen. von aLken
House official at the conclusion of the Macedonian front wit
cabinet meeting. "driving the allies mt
The embargo ordered by the Pennsyl- Sea." as leading N
vania Railroad and 'other lines on all boasled months ago.
classes of freight except foodstuffs and In the face of a
coal was accepted here as the di&ect re
sult of the influente the Chief Executive ported to have begun
has exercised In the investigation. at a o'clock-which
Special Assistant Attorney General An- starve out his cou
derson, who is working under the im
mediate direction d the i4esideft. called twenty days, the I
at the White House before the cabinet Hellenes grows Mor
meeting and left a long report. It was defiant, and is repor
announced that he would confer personal- ordered the mobilize
ly with the President today.
"We have discovered there are such army. .i temobillzatio
things as 'car sharks' in this country as the first entente dem
well as 'loan sharks.' said Mr. Andor- to by Greece after lam
son, while guardLdly discussing his work.
Mr. Anderson has held several long
conferences with Oliver E. Pagan, Indict
ment expert of the Department of Jus
tice. It is understood the President de
rires to find other means of proceedng e gr p
against the rapacious dealers than
through the Sherman anti-trust law and Vienna (via Berlin),
the conspiracy laws. sky victory for Lieut. F
Mr. Anderson is understood to have aviator, was reported b)
found convincing evidence that Individ- today. On the afternoon
uals who are making big profits out of Lieut Banfield encounte
high food prices are manipulating the mackines over the Cargo
freight service of the big trunk lines Ing down one Of them.
through other interestst
PhilAdelpha, Dec. &-V
night search by the Pol
ko. 41 years old, who kil
the street last night by
times, was arrested todar
DEFNDE B GE MAN kn keptdomgillds
Tarrytwno N Y.b Dec.
guardkep____ today
Official Statemenit CitarazterZieS -En-' body, of John D. ArchbOl
slavemeit" as Social Ne . oil magnate. -
nRome Dec. &-Triles
a ongarlan stron
(By the IM11*1408111 01a Me s t 's'r~"dr in u a t h l been
Berlin. Dec. 8-The trnnsfer of =Belgian ItwIn tein faeas b
workers to Germany was caracterizd totned to aes
an a "social necessityr" In an offical nucdtdy
Germn sateent n ~e stter lae sarv ec out healco
todayya. Ite
Thouandsof Blgias, te sttemet esantin, and Gre po i
sayswere ut o work and esom ogrderedt tohe fmbli.
objctsof ublc cariy, aus ~~sarmy. toe Maeroiliti
the ritih emargoagaist Blgiu' herlnrst atet odemun
Approimatey mOS worers o sof y Londory Dec. Lieut. I
totl o lJOOO ae ow ut f wrk n aveator, wan reremb
of pulic id, acordngtothe tat odtay. alrad texiterngoh
mentLieut Bnganedsy nct
The tatmentempaticllydemi t a chnes toer tmeas
theraofg otr waerstos. oeib a''
tine oeraid fo otercaue. ~ I dne oftmr.
B~llNDPRAIONSaj odywr dotdb i
onily wheetat rint whrer izes "Een- ndFrmCet
slavement" asoSckalwascawaidy
Berlin, ecl8.Th trnfe ofTS Belgbyianien Pi
workers toiGermainwaarcharacterwoe
as a "socialneceeentheandaofoan ia
was rragnedyeserdy be~re3s ight mearch byh~e pol
of Eml Bemral.his njebbe koh 41n Franrsco o ld, whk
chared hatWhaek hd .015 .wt~1the streetyo taht nigtebya
~re umeal. aumepwaoreted Idtoda
"Di yo tun aay iththi se- isblod by John D. Arhol
wife' ~e Reor~'~s4Whak Auastungharia mr
"Paris.mDec.e8.-The eea
Thusnd ofBlgas th sttmn stnie ofGreei
Today.
6t _LOTHARIOWEEPS
feasie?
..er..ee., Wax Sorr for Trail of Bleed
-After Ru- r
-Atri'~ ing Hearts Left Beind.
cable dim
indications JBy the Intevatie.al News Service.)
ter finishing .New York, Dec. 8.-Whisper it gently,
ign and em- say it softly, mention it not nbaldly,
clear across "Oliver Osborne' is sorry for the thorns
of the Bel- he strewd in the path of love. Or to put
'tch a large it more simply Charles H. Wax is pent
f the armies tent.
Mackensen "Oliver' said so himself today at hits
hayn to the third "identitication reception" in the of
flee of Assistant United States District
b1 a view to Attorney Roger B. Wood. A tear almost
o the Aegean seemed to glisten in "Oliver's" bluest of
run papers blue eyes as he expressed the hope that
none of the women whose association
with him proved so costly (the word in
3lockade-re- carefully chosen) would cherish harsh
this morning feelincs towards him.
Yesterday, I managed to smile when
4 bound to ni' wife, who was Ethel Brooks identi
Atry within tied me as this specimen'," said "Oliver"
:Ing of the 'Aith even more feeling and expression
I than when he sang "I love the ladies'
and more to Rose Kaiser. "That hurt way down
ted to have dcp. I tried to hide the hurt but it was
tion of his tlre just the same.
L was e 'I wish I could undo the wrongs I have
done. I wish I could face my old mother
Lnds, yielded up there In Gloversville as I did when I
r opposition.) was a boy."
A hint of one of the wrongs that 'Ol
ver" can never undo came In the com
munication of a woman living on Ing
Istand. She asked that a photo of Wax
e sent to her. She added that the avi
az cide of a friend had followed acquaint
ane - with a man she is now trying to
)ec. 8.-Another locate.
anfield, famous' The friend was a Miss Francia, of Ger
the admiralty mantown, Pa. Last winter she met a
of December 3 pilaisible stranger while attending a mis
ed two Italian Ision service in Germantown. She be
plateau. shoot- vame engaged to fim and turned over
all her available savings. He disap
peared and she took her own life.
Dlowing an all
e, Karl Naziej
led his wife on
ttooting her fourGE M N R BU D
. -Two arme FE DEP-RATIONS
at the vault In
where ies the,
t late Standard U. S. Urges Berlin to Halt Transporting
of Belgian People.
te. the greet
ghold on the The United States has protested "in a
n bombardetby friendly spirit, but most solemnly" to
* admiralty an- the German Imperial government against
th, deportation of Belgians to Germany
to be forced to work for the conqueror of
th of King qo- theIr nation. The protest was made In
again calig formally In a, interview secured by Jo
says a Eurich seph C, Girew, in charge of the United
he King l$suf- Siates Embassy at Berlin, with the Ger
that has failed man chancellor.
LaIte yesterday afternoon the State De
pertinent gave out the tex of the pro
S and Germany test, said to have been dict ed by Presi
it regardihg the dent Wilson, which complalned against
datuffs such as the deportatiio as being 'in contraven
itween Holland Ition of ail precedent and of those humane
A.msterdam dis- Iprinciples of international pragtice which
a I have long been accepted and followed by
civIlised natios In theIr treatment of
ttions pretesting non-combatets in conquered territory,"
3 shipped a& AThe protest further etates that Ger'
a Naial many's policy in this respect will th ftal
Conernce. to the Belgian relief work, "whib.it Is
Duye assumed. would .seriously embarrass the
I agi~ mealGerman government.
-. Dere; CAVE-I UNDR MB20aa.
erican aM d
She return Wilkem-Barre. Pm., Dec. 8,-A Owe-Seo
cave extending bemeatb a US-fot sr
let Delaware and eudio. Itailroad
ic. 8-Feprs forl discovered near Butter colliery, Pittaton.
ier Santa Bar- iIn time to prevdt the wreatng of the
Thursday With 9:15 .o'clock raS~ traim and later
i Wialem 55s- passengers sere ed,
Wamt lIt required fomty caerashe
anes- wesparth et wy
e s-m
Days Do dep os
In PayDay Crume
Developments yesterday In the
movement for increased salaes
for government employes:
1-The House Committee an Pet
GOOD ad Post Roads rased the
ealaries of more than 15,4 pot
clerks and letter carrerg by mre '
than 32,000.000 in the postoes ap
propriation bill.
2-The subcommittee of the
House Commitee Appropriatio *
voted hundreds o ncreases to em
plores In the legislative., executive
and judicial bill, and recommend
ed to the full committee a graded
increase for all employee reosving
X1,10 or lee.
3-The Federal Employns' Unica
adopted a schedule of salary in
creases which will be urged upon
Congress by the reprsentatives
of the oresilmaed employee.
4-Senators uterling. Borah. Nor
ris and Kern joined the list of
members of Congress who favor in
creased salaries. t
5-Bishop Russell, of St. Patrick's i
Church. Indorsed the movement for I
increased campensation. i
t
U.S.CLERKSLIST 4
PAY-RAISE PLEASit
!C
Union Representatives Draft
Schedule of Salaries.
At a largely attended meeting of theII
board of representatives of the Fed
eral Employes' Union in Perpetual
Building Halt last night. representa
tives of the 7.000 government employes
In the organization unanimously voted
to present to Congress the following a
schedule of proposed increases: I
EWmploere eisving 41.0A" year t
of Iwso tnAeres of 4e1 per t
oeaL The lnrosse will mae the
.a.a. eomwpematism amemet to at
ieast on a day. go per smeeth, er
41.0 a year.
m--et-yes reeelving more than
Se.00 and leee the 01.500. an n- I
emee of = per eeat.
Espleyes reeeving 1 SOS and
aet mere then 0AeS am increase
ofS per eemt.
les than 0S ea iaenege of is
ser esat.
Emp.ye. recevi.g a.Se.a ya
and ever, an imerrene of 1I per
emt.
A bOB providing for these in
e-esee will be drafted by the leg
islative committee and presented
to Cegress.
The schedule will be presented to
the House Committee on Appropria
tions and other committees which are
considering supply bills.
Employes of the District were not
included because, it was stated. thejr
increases already had been provided
for in the graded bill, granting general
increases ranging from 5 to _A perl
cent, which was filed with the Corn
mittee on Appropriations, with a fa-1
vorable recommendation by the Dir
trict Commi ioners.
The board of representatives voted
not to ask a reclassification or stand
ardisation of salaries, but to center Its
efforts on wage increases
U. S. STEAMSHIP SUNK
BY U-BOAT, IS REPORT
French Battleship and British Liner
Also Posted as Lost.
411y the iaternatiemal News service.0
New York. Iex I--A rep t a
current in shil ing circles ti . aftr
noon that the I nited States steamship
Virginis. 3.552 tons. has been 'unk in
the Mediterranean by a subnarine.
The Virginia sailed from this port
for Spezia (n November 24. arrivi! g
there on 1iecenber 4. Later she steam
ed for Genoa.
At th~e offices of Gaston. Williame &
Wigmore. owners of the Virginia.
doubt was cast upon the report.
Paris. Dec. 8.-The French battleship
Suffren has pen sunk with the loss of
her entire crew. acconring to an admi
ralty announcement today.
The Suffren displaced 12.527-tons and
carried a crew of 730 men. She sailed
for L'Orient, a French naval station in!
Brittany. on November 24, and was not'1
heard from afterward. The Suffren was
completed in 1910 at a cost of $6.000.
000.
London. Dec. 8.-Lloyd's Shipping
Agency announced today that the
Anchor L%*r Caledonia is believed to
have been sunk. The Caledonia was a
vessel of 9.13 tone, hailing from Glaa
gow.
The Caledonia was in the British
government service, having heen taken
over by the admiralty. Formerly she
plied between $lew Yprk and Glasgow.
Chicage, )ec. 8.-Ten thous*a man
between the ages of ad-S are to he
given an opportunity to demonstrate that
they are fit for something beside the
scrap heap.
Fifteen of Chicago's largest business
men. uinder the leadership of Baini J.
Iosoenthal, a eitalist, are hatd of the
plan, and they will meet today to put it
into operation.
XAJ, i6, TO WED; ERUDE, 61.
New York. Dec. 8.-Alonso gobbins
Peok and Miss Faie Ferri5 Gahaps.
Rse of his first wife, to whom he was
married sixty yeaW. took out a mar
riage Dicense yesterday. Mr. Peck, wh'.,
la a millionaire, gave his age as S yearal
Sad Miss Gagen gave hera as 6t.
12,000,006 M0WE
FOR PeO. CLERKS
IS RECOMENDED
.raded Increase for A Fe&
era Emplyea Reeing
Under $1,800 Urged.
RST CABMNVIORY
ionse Committees Ad Pave=y so
giatiom Grmmi.6
Rahe.
7e initial viesery in the me.....
augurated by Mae Wa-ingtn Hes,
&M to obtain higher salaries for Fed
val employes came yesterday when
he House Connittee as Posodlicas
ad Poetroads adope-d as ameend
ment providing $2,000,000 addiial
m salaies for more than 25,000 let
er carriers and postoEice cierks.
In addition. -he Sb.comnimsee of
he Committee on Appopriatias fi.
shed its consideration of the legis
ive, executive and judiciary l a
eported it back to the full conmittee
rjt hundreds of individual increases
' salary and a plan for a graded in
rease for all government simploes
eceiving less than $1,800 a year.
Altogether. it was a day of big de
elopments for the advocates of bet
er wages for Federal workers, and
he signs multiplied that Ceosses will
evise salaries upward b e h pls
at session adjourns.
Moon oppoee ae...
The Inreases In the Posatoe Depart
lent were put through against the
trong objection of Chairman Moom. of
be committee. and Repreentative Cox.
Ut the majority of the mnembers am
Lined the amendment offered by Repre
entative Maddem. of Illinois, and the
igher salaries wre written into the
411.
The amendment for the poteoo dakg
rovides for the promotion of al the
lerks in the apet clas postotffoeg from
he fifth to the axth grade; for the pro
notion of A par seat of the lerkas of
he sixth grads, to be 4a-geated as epe
tal clerks in the MA gsade. and far
he promotion of & par os et the clerks
a the P.30 gre so the dEgesamem of
pecal clark i he . er4de
All olerks in econd lass aoee re
Advanced from the fourth to the th
rrade. and 76 per cent in the me oomas
rill be advanced from the Ifth to the
,ixth grades.
Promettes for isls*.
There a" lees e arks o the
Pasteree Departmesat at S.IM.
Ihe department reeommdmed the
prometien of aie of these. The
ameodameut promete. SasAm
of the 2.550 elese at =1 8an the
Departnment weemmemdm en to
eremme for 14, The anenemmt
ainreae. this smbaser Se me.
The departemelt woud raise IS
per cent of the elerks In the mo
ead Class pestefcees. %e amend
aeeat roi these all LIm "lAS
to e1ee.
summariaed. the w-menument I
creses the department reeaen
datiem from i. to l1 pr eest in
two Caeo.
It Seremes the deportment ree
amme4dati00 from 5 to 75 per
ceat IS two CMeS and from 5 to 5
per e"t a in eme.
The second amendment adopted by the
ommittlee pr ides that in all estab
ish.l ,"S'toffices of the irat class the
arri-ra be advanced from the fifth to
he sixth grade or from $1.100 to $1.3O.
k1u carriers of the fourth are advanced
o the fifth crade or from 11.000 to $1.141
rhe department recommended an ad
ance for 75 per cent of thee mes. Twen
CO'NTINUED ON PAGE POWa.
ISSINi GIVEN 0. K.
BY NEW YORK JURIST
len Though Wife Is Not Reap-t.
There's No Crime in It.
kpmal to. he Wamgten erd.
\. w Yor. Tj. S.-lIueband' rejoice!
It is not a crime to klms! Even though
t is some other woman. aside from the
me you have promised to love, honor,
!herish and support. Of course, It A#
'ends on who the wonan Is. Judge
Rteall, of the 0ity Court, in disposig
>f the case of "Dan' Caslar. besides ex
reasng his opinion on osnulalonn, added
:hat a man may wear a high hat and
:arry a cane-If he can afford i-and
riot be gruilty of wrong-doing.
"Thn come kin. me. sweet and
twenty." as Shakespeare would may.
Mr. Casiar was accused by big wife of
*living high," riding about In auto
mnohiles snd wearing a dik hat. 0e
bharged him with abendonsment. 30e
also maid she saw hin kom ete weomen
St a reception.
Mr. Cantar was M gage e his
promise to pay blme S wtsmarr. t
i week alimony.
80 long am he paya bin al.mp he to
free to go hi. way and kiss-dimestIr
w-here he see. fit.
TOWN FA~m A 3h .
Coifax. L., Dec. 1-Cea i the es
esa town heneeforth.Kt m Madel
iuriesquae show., cirename, a
raudevilie are included Sn the hen gmd
riy the council, 7 to 5. and e~eml.e to
lay. Sixteen youth, of the town recemtl
took as mpany chore. girlm e- joy uldes
and painted j~etown red an the jamme
rhe or ina s the seged,.
'Nfcte -e.mob.r lth.**e .
tional Limited." tomeb a ed
bImited." will leavo e shatn
I :4.t instead ot 2:50 . in s.. arv~g
rork lifteen mninutae earlier. 0.m
lion enn now be made at P
.rith the 4-se p. in. Rending' feain
