i.
.
. M
'$1
1
v--"'.
" -
V.
HEW TO THE LINE; LET THE GPDDPS FAIX. WHERE THEY MAY
r ' ." t
1. vMA SSBSBw I BSBSBSBSBSBl 1 BSBSBSBSBSBSfeh. rnilrfriT' ft iwiiSfT'iwSF3-'sSJSSSMSMr yy tf BBBSBSBSBsW.SSB WJ (S f Mbs.
BBSBSsW BBBSBSBSBSBS Bsssssl I BBSBSBSK BBSBSBv EBBSBSBSr BBBBBBBBflk SslBBBBBBf ' EBBBBBBBB t '"T bjFjBBBt """"BBBBBbW. OzSr J' BBBBBBBBiW .
.MMV XBBBBBS I k x. BBBBBW (BBBBBBB B SA SsBBBBBBBi3BBBBBBfl S'C5BBF SE"la''A CBBIk A VBBBBBBBBW V
'BbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbW bbbbbbbbbbbbbbWSEbbbbbbbbwbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb grjM ()tfr?tfim i- . sbbbbVi jv
r0l. XXII.
GHIGAGO, DECEMBER 9, 1916
N. 12
s Exclusively Predicted in These Columns Last Week,
Governor Edward F. Dunne Has Extended a New Lease
of Life unto "Chicken Joe" Campbell Until March 16, 1917
NEW COUNTY OFFICIALS WITH MUCH POMP AND CEREMONY
TVEEE INDUCTED INTO OFFICE ON MONDAY IN THE MIDST OF A
GEEAT PEOFUSION OF FLOWERS.
TWELFTH WARD REPUBLICAN CLUB ORNAMENTED THE ROOMS
OF COL. AUGUST W. MILLER WITH A HUGE ELEPHANT COMPOSED
ENTD2ELY OF BEAUTIFUL WHITE FLOWERS IT WAS THE CEN
TER OF ATTRACTION AROUND THE CITY TTAT.T. AND COUNTY
BUILDING.
STATES SENATOR JAMES HAMILTON LEWIS ADDRESSED THE
COLORED BAPTIST CONVENTION AT HOT SPRINGS, ARKANSAS,
AND HIS NOBLE AND ELOQUENT TRIBUTE TO THE COLORED PEO
PLE WAS WELL RECEIVED BY THE BRETHREN.
Many people who are always unable
see over their stub noses freely cle
ared during the late election that
Governor Edward F. Dunne was simply
Haying politics in order to- capture a
ige per cent of the Colored vote, that
soon as the election was over that
e would permit Elston Scott and
Chicken Joe" Campbell to be hung
Ip by their necks until they were as
lead as door nails, but time has amply
woven that that class of loudmouthed
ndividuals did not know whaf; they
rere talking about that for once they
lad misjudged Governor Dunne, for
st week he reprieved Elston Scolt
ntil March 16, 1917, which caused
Ik to feel extremely happy and very
ateful to the nowers that be. and as
; was exclusively tated or predicted
i these columns last week that ' ' Chick-
Joe" Campbell would not be
ptled out of this world, Friday, De-
lembcr 8, and our prediction has come
ae in that respect, for this week his
fe was extended until March 16, 1917,
9j Governor Dunne, which should be
elf-evident to all fair-minded men
hoso who arc not controlled by their
wjudkes that Governor Dunne was
ar abovo playing politics with the
ives of those two unfortunate Colored
r,en.
The Governor has also intimated
bat beforo he leaves office he will
ry out his promise to the "honor"
pen on tho prison farm, to commute
ieir sentences one day for every three
Ent on the farm. Some of the cou
ps and tlieir families had been wor-
IJag, not knowing what action Gover-
lor-lcet Lowden would take. Tho
lonormen recently sent "a memorial"
'Governor Dunne, as a token of their
atitude for favors granted.
The various new county officials also
nc.uilinjr die new and old judges of
ilie superior court who were elected
ast June a-, the newly elected -judges
K the ihuii. ,iial court who were elect-
Nat the i ember election and Judge
Bobcrt K. Crowe, ono of tho new
Ngos of he circuit court, were all
"orn u p Monday which was almost
nsforme.I into a holiday around the
Hall mu tho County Building, on
silay afternoon tho now Trustees of
h Sanitary District of Chicago wero
"stalled into offieo. nam el v. Charles II.
gd. President and Trustee and
Jw H. Lmley and Mathias A. Mul
n' Trustee. All thrco of theso gentle
men reeeiwM manv rare and beautiful
floral designs from their hosts of
xnemls.
"0 follow inr nrrt flin Tintr- ennntv nf.
fils,wbo l.ogjui their labors the first
"this week: Col. August W. Miller,
k of the Circuit Court, who named
... ..O U.O UI.U W, ..UV.
a first eiass selection, for Mr. Hutt
-U1 thn ... t.' 1 i. 1
"" r-'M- proven mmseii io oo su
vio-dat
iOOBls
kttt
to public official. Col. Miller's
were loaded down with tho
nn tnn .n Vkj.n.S.i1 41wiwm
"&Ve over ho on in mrirlnnrn btit.
ttL T.. toil, -nr.-a t...vi;
JjJ1 instructed entirely of beautiful
--v.i. aim iv ntui uy itw: bua
t8t ntt..i: - a i .
1 --'ifictiuu iruiu. a uunu puiuk
--' around the City Hall or the
7 BniWiBa.
tl Kjellanierj Superior ceurt
ed L, A. Brumaage, bretter
of E. J. Brundage, chief deputy, and
James T. Frank, chief clerk.
Joseph P. Haas named John Fl De
vine, former chairman of the Repub
lican county committee, as his chief
deputy in the recorder's office, and T.
R. Steinert as chief clerk.
Gov. Dunne was' the principal speak
er at the installation of Judge John J.
Sullivan in the Superior court.
The governor also went to the court
room of Judge Joseph Sabath in the
superior court division and delivered
the principal speech.
Municipal Court Judge Bernard P.
Bafasa was introduced as dne "of fho
three Italian judges in tho United
States.
Harry Emerson, who went in as
county surveyor, also had flowers and a
host of well wishers.
The New Judges.
The judges installed are:
Superior Court John J. Sullivan,
Joseph Sabath, Martin M. Gridley,
Charles A. McDonald, William Fenni
more Cooper, and William E. Dever.
Circuit Court Robert E. Crowe.
Municipal Court Hosea W. Wells,
John R. Caverly, John R. Newcomer,
Harry P. Dolan, Hugh R. Stewart,
Wells M. Cook, John A. Swanson, John
Richardson-, John F. Haas, Howard
Hayes, and Bernard P. Barasa.
Tho rooms of former Alderman John
Kjellander and Joseph F. Haas also
contained a great profusion of flowers
from their many friends.
United States Senator James Hamil
ton Lewis spent some time in recuper
ating up at Hot Springs, Ark. Just
before departing for Washington, D. C.
he was urged to address the Colored
Baptist Convention of that state and
he very eloquently spoko in part as
follows, which was very pleasing to
tho brethren.
His speech was a masterful one from
beginning to its end. Ho paid tho no
blest of tributes to the Negro people
and in language free from any patron
izing excuses or evasion, all of which
sustained the past reputation of the
uoted Senator. He said among many
great utterances that "he believed in
justice, equal justice, to tho Negro as
to himself, that the race has wrought
now and well under the circumstances,
that not until all men stand as one
common brotherhood shall tho highest
height of Christian civilization as
taught and meant b3 Jesus be at
tained. In short, the Senator's address
was truly gTeat, and great was the
manifestation of appreciation as shown
by tho heartily applauso which punctu
ated it throughout by tho splendid au
dienco that heard him."
THE NEGRO IN A NEW FIELD.
By Benjamin Browning.
TRYING TO WEAKEN POLITICAL
STRENGTH.
Chattanooga, Tenn. (Special). For
the purpose of reducing tho influence
of Hiram Tyree, Colored, infuturo po
litical campaigns, a movement is on
foot to materially change ward linos
on tho west 8136" of tho city so as to
take a large number of Negroes out of
tho fourth ward which is controlled by
Tyree. White politicians, -who are lined
up behind Tyree, are expected to put
up a stubborn fight to defeat the move
aemt. - ,
. - Jr
A new flower has just bloomed into
"recognition in the world of industry,
or business, as it may be called. That
is tho Negro moving picture business.
Like in many other enterprises, the Ne
gro is free to take a chance and not
only capable of making good, but the
opportunities are favorable. Several
films have been shown in Chicago and
all with varying degrees of success, so
I can see no reason why this business
should not be developed. One thing
sure, wo need more business operations.
The movies are clean, wholesome and
a high-class form of entertainment;
they are not detrimental to the commu
nity and those who see them with an
evil eye. The establishment of the cen
sorship board I think has been instru
mental in eliminating and prohibiting
indecenices. To-day the movies, besides
presenting humor to replace the come
dian, attempts to instruct and guide the
public in the great moral issues of the
day. Some churches have installed
moving picture machines for religious
purposes'-and'Tmost of tho clergymen
throughout the country are favorable
toward moving pictures. I think every
Negro, particularly those who are in
terested in the commercial expansion
of the race, should put forth every ef
fort to encourage the forerunners in
this pioneer industry by attending the
amusement houses where the ,Colored
movies are shown. By doing so it will
stimulate others to venture into the
r
field; it also means financial aid to the
film company. Thus, with financial suc
cess, the Colored movies can be placed
on an equal plane with any. other.
As for the prospects of future suc
cess, it was well demonstrated by the
picture recently shown, at the State
Theater, "Winning His Suit," and
each actor played his part well and
the actions were natural and logical.
There were no unreasonable exaggera
tions, although one or two little incon
sistencies were noticeable, such aa the
scene showing the leading actor study
ing by tho light of an oil lamp and
just before that Negroes were shown
living in modern built homjes, owned
automobiles and the like. It seemed
that it was the intention to show that
the Negro of to-day has risen to the
modern standard of living and if that
be so, it is not to be expected that a
person of modern standards would be
using an oil lamp. A few little cases
of a similar nature, but none were suffi
cient to make any material difference
in the value oi tho picture.
Tho picture gave a striking example
of tho real worth of friendship. It
was also a lesson to continue fighting
if we know that wo arc in tho right
and though prejudice, disadvantages
and obstacles may be great, we can
win providing we fight hard enough. I
hope tho success of the Colored moving
picturo business will influence Negroes,
not only in Chicago, but wherover pos
sible; to tako a chanco in some other
business, as I can see it is our only sal
vation. Commercial development and not so
much professionalism will alone mako
tho Negro self-supporting and inde
pendent. Until wo havo achieved this,
and not before, will we obtain equal
rights.
Wo can protest all we want, con
gress can pass all the laws it chooses
in our favor, butunless we are ablo to
back our demands with economic forces,
conditions will bo no better. After all
the people are the real rulers and the
only assurance of justice. '
-- .
Attorney A. E. Patterson," 3102 a
State street, who worked very hard for
the re-election ef President Woodrow
Wibon expects, in the near' future, te
visit, New York City on legal basUesf,
BSSSSSSSSBSSSSSSSSBBSvV9BSSfeBLjBlBaviBHBfi2JBSSSSSSSSSSSlBBwnKiSBBBH
LiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHHMLiiiK --:;- iSiiiHBHBHiwBHlSSBHiiiiHBmKiiiiiiiiiiH
k Liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
ih yiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH
ALDERMAN OSCAR DePRIEST.
More than fifteen thousand voters throughout the Second ward have signed, cards
pledging themselves to vote in favor of his re-nomination at the February
primaries.
ALDERMAN OSCAR DePRIEST HAS
BEEN ENDORSED BY THE SEC
OND WARD EXECUTIVE COM
MITTEE OF THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY TO MAKE THE RACE FOR
THE RE-NOMINATION FOR AL
DERMAN OF THAT WARD AT
THE FEBRUARY PRIMARIES.
Whereas, Among tho important pub
lic offices for which party nomination
will be made at tho February primaries
are members of tho City Council; and, I
Whereas, The Second Ward has'been
singularly fortunate in having as their
representatives in the City Council two
officials whoso public careers have been
conspicuously efficient, courageous . and
above reproach; and,
Whereas, Alderman Oscar DePriest,
whose term is about to expire, has
served the people of tho Second Ward
with marked ability, integrity, sin
cerity and always with a high sense of
public duty; therefore, be it
Resolved, That tho Executive Com
mittee of the Second Ward Republican
Organization, in regular meeting as
sembled, hereby indorse his candidacy
for renomination at tho primaries, Feb
ruary, 1917, and pledgo him our sup
port; be t further
Rosolved, That theso resolutions bo
spread upon the minutes of this com
mittee, and that a copy thereof, under
the hands and seals of the chairman
and secretary, bo presented to Alder
man DePriest.
Executive Committee Second Ward
Republican Club, Samuel A. Ettelson,
Chairman; Morris Lewis, Secretary.
November 29, 1916.
COL. JOSEPH S. DAVIS HELD OVER
TO THE GRAND JURY FOR FAIL
ING TO PAY TWENTY-THREE
DOLLARS RENT TO ALDERMAN
OSCAR De PRIEST FOR ROBERT
V. RIDLEY.
Several weeks ago, Robert V. Rid
ley turned over to Col. Joseph S. Davis,
whov was tho high campaign manager
among tho Colored people, for Hon. An
drew Russel during the lato primaries
and election twenty-threo dollars to
pay his month's rent to Alderman Os
car DePriest, but instead of paying the
rent tho money somehow or other got
tangled up with Col. Davis' money and
it was expended for some other pur
pose. On Tues'day, Mr. Ridley ran across
Col. Davis in tho City Hall and after
exchanging a few words with him, he
just toted him to the Central station,
and on Wednesday morning Col. Davis
and Mr. Ridley faced each other in the
South Clark street court, Judge John
A. Mahoney, presiding.
Mr. Ridley related how he. had been
relieved of his $23.00 by Col. Davis;
that Alderman DePriest had sent him
a five days' notice which he exhibited
in court to vacate the premises at 3444
8, State street on account of his fail
ure to pay the rent.
After CoL Davis had related nia
eek aafc fcalLlUzy in relation t. the
$23.00. Judge Mahoney loudly de
clared that there is "no gambling in
Chicajjo" and ho held Col. Davis over
to tho grand jury on $1,000 bonds.
Col. Lawrence A. Nowby represented
him in court.
MISS ATT'Y GENERAL COLORADO
ADDRESS.
Newly Elected State Official Selects
Dainty Woman as One of His CMef
Assistants.
FORMERLY NEWSPAPER WRITER.
Worked Her Way Through Stato Uni
versity While Self-supporting.
Denver (Special). A woman for the
first time will take her place in the
office of tho attorney general of Colo
rado and provo to tho wholo country
that the West to-day places such confi
dence in tho ability of women that it
is not afraid to intrust the most im
portant affairs of state in their hands.
Clara Ruth Mozzor, Denver born and
educated, has been appointed junior
attorney general of Colorado. Tho ap
pointment is to take effect January 9,
1917.
The appointment is the first to be
xaade by Leslie Hubbard, attorney gen
eral elect. Miss Mozzor is dainty aid
attractive. Sfee was feraaerly a news
paper woman, and worked her way
through tho university of Colorado by
her writings.
DON'T FORGET NEXT TUESDAY.
Next Tuesday night, December 12th,
in Quinn Chapel, Georgo Frederic Whee
ler will givo a short lecture on tho
forthcoming big photoplay, "Tho Birth
of a Race."
Both before and after tho lecture
Mme. Hurd Fairfax, assisted by somo
of the best musical talent of Chicago,
will give a delightful concert.
Mr. Wheeler will mako plain to
every one just what a great picturo
"Tho Birth of a Raco" is to be. Ho
will tell who is back of this important
work, its benefit to tho races, and how
every progressive, patriotic NegTO can
play a part in its success.
It is hoped that all who can possibly
be present will attend.
The concert will bo tho equal of any
ever given on tho South Side, and in
addition you will learn all about "The
Birth of a Race." '
Heary (Teeaan) Jones, the chief
headlight of the Elito Cafe, No. 2,
3445 8. Stato street, is makintr great
preparations to -entertain his many
friends and patrons daring the heliday
season.
xs
t- t
V
S1&t&.--7i
4iailifr-" lv
, - V
'
f it f"y7Z? , i v -3 -
fc-' t c u. W.CVv. .! , . . ,-
ir, - .rjB-j-.Nr:u. :-r-: -:
1 ilSJ-j-J
'
:.; u
r-a
