TEL
E ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEA1?
GREAT WASTE
SW EXPERTS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. 1K K. Cuttle raisers,
economists of the colleges , and the
government, plain farmers. marketing
experts, to the number of eight hund
red who have been holding the fourth
national conference on marketing and
farm credits here completed their
labors today.
They took up problems luvolying
larm finance, putting the landless man
on the manless land, efficient market
ing, conversation and rural develop
ment and suggested remedial proce
dure in resolutions adopted this after
noon. Resolutions and speeches showed
that the actual growers of gram, car
tie, fruit and vegetables believe they
are not obtaining proper returns for
the labor and investment because thev
are not organized and do not work co
operatively; that the waste by present
methods, or the lack of them, is of
appalling magnitude and makes it easy
for the legion of middle men to in
flate the cost of living; that Europe
has much to teach us about co-operative
agriculture, and that it is up to
congress to stuifv the whole situation
and apply remedies accordingly.
The whole sorry picture of fruits
ami vegetables rotting in the fields
w hile residents of thy cities paid ex
or.iitant prices for the proportion
which, by nianip ilutiou or otherwise,
reaches the urban markets, was pre
sented. The conference, according to its
sponsors has at las' reached a stage
where something is being accomplish
"d for the farmers. Tlie farm loar.
bill is a law; many states have market
i mmissioneis and tne federal government-
has established the offices of
iiiarketlng and rural credits to work
with the states, and the discussions
have dH. losed what the weakness of
the system nr and shown the way
out. A government investibation of
the' livestock and packing industries
by the federal trades commission was
asked.
Market commissioners of twenty
states, named o assist the farmer and
the consumer by giving expert advice
on p-o'ter crops t raise, where to
send them, what they are worth; how
to organize for mutual benefit, and the
like-; met under the presidency of VY.
G. Scholtz, market commissioner of
Idaho. W. A. Pti"iraan of the new
federal office of markets and rural
organization explained to them how
th- feder-tl government purix.ses to co
operate with them. '
In another room the National agri-
iilnral orsmizatmn rociety met in-,
formallv This jjo"iety was formed a
year agj after previous conferences
had dev loped the need of the farmer
to organize to h:;lp the farmer to do
so. aid to provide him with expert
advice in efficiency methods necessary
to his community development. It was
reported at the meeting that the so
ciety has helped to form scores of
ro-nprativp associations dining the
eisr of its existance.
The resolutions express the belief
that farm loan bonds will be readily
saleable, but remark upon the neces
sity for a nytem of short time credits
In lui'lition for the farmer.' legisla
tion lo this end is asked of congress.
Congress also is asked to provide an
authority to certify notes, secured by
livestock or other farm products, so
th it thev may have p ready market
at reasonable Vrtes. This. It Is urged,
would relieve the farmer of the high
interest charged by local money
lenders.
In the matter of setting more set
tlers on the land, the resolutions recog
nized tlie excellent purpose of the
Croe.ser lull, but opiosed that partic
ular measure providing perpetual
hurea u ratic control, and tending to
duplicate t "pendant peasantry." To
oicrcnme the evils of tennant farming.
'! to te increasing, the resolutions
call for soil survevs which will show
the exa t characteristic unC value of
every parcel of land in the country"
government aid to the fatmer until
nis land is in shape to prcvioe him
with a living. "I.eadv-made" faVms are
suggested, and "he plan used in Wy
oming was endorsed. Supervision of
priva:e colonization projects to pro
tect th settler t'rrni fraud and mis
representation is requested and the
government is i.kd to uppoint a com
rn.'Sion lo look into the whole subject.
fContlnned on' Png Two
MKT
Gray Defends British Action
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. Dec. 8. The following
statement on the Greek situation, au
thorized by Viscount Grey, British sec
retary for foreign affairs, ha been
handed to the Associated Press:
"It sometimes has been said by
critics in neutral countries tjiat our
presence In Greece does not differ ap
preciably from the presence of tlie
Germans in Belgium. It Is not meant
to suggest that our troops ever have
been guilty of the excesses and atroci
ties which now are reaching their
climax in the Belgian deportations, but
that the landing -of our troops at Salnn
iki can no more be defended from a
Juristic point of view than the German
invasion by way of -Liege, in August,
1!14.
"The positon of Belgium before the
German invasion needs no explanation.
The ablest historians have made it per
fectly clear that the neutrality of Bel
gium was guaranteed by certain pow
ers, one of whom was Germany; that
Germany on the derisory pretext that
she might have to meet a fourth in
vasion through Belgium, first sent to
i'at country an ultimatum requiring
her to allow the unhindered passage of
German troops, and that then, on the
demand being met with an unqualified
refusal (Belgium's only possible reply
consonant with loyalty to her other
guarantors), she proceeded to occupy
the country with the results which lire
onlv too well known to us all,
"The form In which the protesting
powers Great Britain. France and
Russia guaranteed the kingdom of
Greece is less well known to the neu
tral world. It Is more ancient history,
and to some extent wrapped up in the
technicalities of diplomatic language.
"On July U. 1X61. a treaty was
signed containing the following as its
third article:
Greece, under the sovereignty of
Prince William of Denmark and the
is PAGES . .
Auvuan
PERSONAL USE IS IN
THE DISCARD; STATE ,
MADEDRY YESTERDAY
For the second time in the history of
Arizona, the state has been . declared
dry, and top the 'second time it is al
most impossible to borrow or beg a
drink, let alone buy one.
After two days of almost constant
work, Governor Hunt and his force
of clerks finished the composition of
the official proclamation which, when
decorated with the gubernatorial sig
nature, became a law, at 4:30 yesterday
afternon. Without any ceremony the
governor picked up the big fut fountain
pen which he uses to sign such ordin
ary things as vouchers and letters, and
without a flourish of any kind, made
the few strokes which wiped the state
dry and eradicated the liquor evil for
.the second time. After a o'clock last
evening It was illegal to imjiort liquor
for personal use. and it is now consid
ered illegal to have liquor on one's
person or in fine's house.
The last days of King Alcohol yes
terday were unlike his last days the
first time he was banished the. other
side of the state line. There were no
hilarious celebrations, and the hectic
young men who paraded the streets
that former time with a bottle in "each
hand and a jag in between, were hard
to find. Everything passed off quietly.
The will of the people had been de
clared, and it only waited for the gov
ernor to put the law into force.
The proclamation is not as long as
it was at first supposed it would be.
It takes up about six pages of legal
paper, and takes in all of the measures
voted upon at the last election, de
claring the game law. the anti-capital
punishment law and the prohibition law
carried, while the others are declared
to have met with the adverse vote of thi
coiUa
ic "the
sixteen "whereases" and one
re-
fore."
Following is a copy of the section
which relate to the prohibition amend
ment: "Whereas. It now appears from the
returns of said election, as canvassed
and certified by the canvassing board,
in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter I. Title 2. Civil Code. Revised
statutes of Arizona, 1!1J. that an
amendment entitled, "That the con
stitution of the state of Arizona be and
is hereby amended by adding thereto
another article, the same to be num
bered XXIV, Trohibition,' was sub
mitted to the electors of the state by in
itiative petition, and whereas it appears
further that there were of votes cast
at said election 2S.4TH votes cast in
favor of said amendment, and l'i 379
cast against said amendment, and thai,
therefore, a majority of the votes cast
at sirid election upon said amendment
as In favor thereof M do further
Rumanians Refuse to Fight
(Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
Pursuit of the retiring Russians and Rumanian forces in eastern Wal
lachia by Maid Marshal von Mackenscn continues, but how fir the Teutonic
advance bat progressed is not known.
Seemingly, the retiring defenders of Rumanian soil are offering little
res'stance and are endeavoring to reach the line of the Buzeu river before
the Auatro-Germans can break through, the Moldavian frontier and get in
their rear or the Bulgarians and Germans can cross the Danube around
Tchernavado and outflank them. The Germans have repulsed a Russian
attack in the Trotus valley and the Russians report the checking of an
offensive movement in the Oituz valley. Petrograd says all has been calm
in Dobrudja and along the Danube.
In the rounding up of the forces cut off by their advance on Bucharest
the troops of von Mackensen have captured 18,000 prisoners and 26 guns.
The Rumanian troops isolated in western Wallaehia, numbering 8,000, have
been taken as well as 10,000 of the forces operating around Predeal and
Altchanz passes.
The Russians have again taken the initiative in the Carpathians,
Petrograd states, south of Jarovnik. Berlin says the Russian offensive is
a failure and declares only local attacks have occurred in that region.
The repulse of a Russian attack on the Dvina front, below Riga, also is
recorded by Berlin.
Hill 304, in the Verdun region, and the forest of Apremont have been
the scenes of the only reported activity on the western front. Paris claims
the Germans were ejected from a section of the trenchs on Hill 304, but
Berlin asserts the troops of the crown prince repulsed French attempts to
re-take the trenches. The Germans. Paris records, succeeded in gaining a
footing -in the French trenches in the forest of Apremont, but were later
ejected. ' .
Heavy fighting around Struvina on the Macedonian front is recorded
by Paris, which says the Serbians checked three attacks by German and
Bulgarian troops. Serbian attacks near Trnova, wtat of Monastic, wtre re
pulsed, Berlin states.
guarantor of the three articles, forms .1
monarchlal. Independent, constitutional
state.'
"The unconstitutional behavior of
King Constantine, his refusal to abide
by the terms of the Greek treaty with
Serbia, and the flouting of the direc
tions of M. Venizeios and his parlia
mentary majority, hardly admit of de
nial, even by the Germans, who con
tent themselves with saying that he
acted for what he believed to be the
best Interests of his country. As
Great Britain. France and Russia have
uniformly acted together, the whole
matter of their landing troops to neu
tralize the king's unconstitutional ac
tion was both their fight and their
duty.
"Objection may possibly be brought
that the arguments up to this point rest
Los Angeles Patrolman Is
Found To
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LOS -ANGELES. Dec. X. Albert J.
Griffith, a patrolman on the Los An-geb-H
police force for four years. Con
fessed today, according to the police,
that he wis the robber who held up
an express wagon yesterday on a htisv
street and made off with about $3,000
In cvaH and .'!4,00o in checks, drafts
and other rmnking papers. Most of
the money was recovered.
Griffith, according lo the police,
broke down and made a full confes
sion. It stated that he hod no accom
plice. Geoigei Home, lieutenant of detec
tives said he I ocame suspicious .'
t int fun when he learned he was not
PHOEKIX, ARIZONA,
3i.vx
proclaim and declare such initiative
and referendum mvasures as are here
inbefore mentioned as having been ap
proved by a majority of the state's
electors, who cast their votes thereon
at the general election held on the first
Tuesday after the first .Monday in No
vember. l!lfi. to be in full force and
effect from the date of this proclama
tion, pursuant to the procedure pre
scribed by the revised statutes of Ari
zona, 1!'13, and conformable to the
constitution of the state of Arizona."
That there was a well defined desire
for the stock of liquor Imported from
the coust and stored at the local Wells
Kargo express office, was amply demon
strated yesterday afternoon, when a
regular horde of thirsty ones lined tip
at- the counter, and the only liquor
house which has graced the state in
two years was decidedly cleaned out.
The warning that all shipments on hand
when the law went into effect would be
sent back was the charm which drew
thr crowds. The agent for the express
company stated last night that there
were but a few packages left over to
be shipped ignominlously hack to a
wetter clime. ,
There ia probably more liquor In 1
Phoenix now than there ever has been
before. According to railroad men and
express men, there never has been be
fore in the history of "the traffic In
this state, such an influx of wet good.
lr the palmy days when the saloons
were wide open, shipments came to h
few wholesalers, but for the past month
a good share of the families In the val
ley have been importing a winter's
supply.
CURTAILING COPPER
f Republican A. P. Leaned Wire
LONDON. Dec. H -Except for the
fulfillment of current contracts. Die
importation of copper or dealings in
copper without a special permit are
prohibited from today by government
order. The order also prohibits the
use of copper for manufacturing pur
poses and directs inventories made of
nil stocks of raw copper be returned to
London not later than December 16.
FIREMEN TALK PREVENTION
Bercb'lcan A P Leased Wire)
P. ALT I. MO RE. Dec. ft Fire preven
tion was the chief topic of today's ses
sions of the Safety Flist Federation
convention. C. Albert Ga.sser. inspec
tor of the bureau of combustibles, New
ark, N. .1., said that I Row persons are
burned to death eiery year, mainly
through preventable causes and that
one-fourth of the fire loss has been
due lo the careless use of matches.
oh technicalities in old treaties, and In
order to Justify the uctiim, at any rate
morally, we must show that we were
not acting against the wishes of the
Greek people. To this may be replied
without tlie possibility nf controver
sion, that our troops went to Saloniki
with the express approval of the then
head of the Greek government, and that
he had suggested the stipulation in
the Gref co-Serbian treatv for'a pro
vision by which the Serbian govern
ment needs could, in view of the de
fault of Greece on this point, be ful
filled by the dispatch into Greek ter
ritory of an equivalent force by Great
Jiritain and t ranee.
"Nothing that has happened since
the landing at Saloniki can, of course,
(Continued on Page Two)
Be Clever Crook
on il'.itv the iliiv of the crime and later
hw the hut with the Initials "A. J. G."
He said he ordered the patrolman
shadowed, and detectives last saw him
tvirehiisn a new automobile, paying
rii.-
I Griffith culled at the motor com
I pany today to get his car. Lieutenant
Home called him by telephone and
asked him to Util e dow n to isillce
l headquarters, Griffith refused, but on
I being told It tvns regard ung a matter
of routine, he assented and took his
I first Vide In his new machine.
On Jelng confronted with the hat,
the empty sack and oilier clothing.
Griffith, according to the police, gave
detailed Mnt'.Miicnt of the robbery.
SATURDAY MORNING,
Nf NEEDS TO
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. Dec. X. The kick of
adequate stations as a iveakncs in the
naval establishment of the I'uited
Slates was discussed here today by
Hear Admirals Bradley A. Fiske and
John R. Edwards. Jioth retired, before
the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers.
They spoke after the reading of a
paper by Professor W. 1. Cat hi art, a.
naval -consulting engineer cf Philadel
phia, dealing with the deficiencies of
the land of the country s naval affairs.
Both the rear admirals endorsed Pro
fessor Cathcart's recommendations.
Real Admiral Edwards declaring that
if there were no other way to get
money to build iit the shore stations
he "would cut out one capital ship
from the appropriations" in unVr to
do so.
"South of Hutteras you haven't a
crane that will lift a gun out of a tur
ret of a battleship," he said. "And It is
a fact that there is not a place along
the coast south of 'that cape where a
battleship could go for repairs. We
need a base to protect the Panama
cnnal.
"A base at Charleston would make
an enemy extend his line of operations
hOd or tuo miles which would take a
dozen more capital ships."
Rear Admiral Fiske said that the
Ameritan people do not realize their
danger any more than does a baby on
a railroad trark." He said it was the
duty of the mi-chanical engineers to
point out to their fellow citizens "v. hat
our country must do or perish."
Professor Cathcart said several
American naval stations now could be
seized with eaze if tl.e American fleet
were, first defeated. The stations on
(Continued on Page Two)
Investigations
Of High Prices
Coast to Coast
fBenoHiean A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Inc." 8 Officials
conducting the government's inquiry
into the high cost of living virtually
have completed a program to place tie-
fore President Wilson and Attorney
General Gregory tomorrow, providing
for simultaneous grand Jury investiga
tions. throuBhout Country.
It Is understood in addition to the j
officials now directly engaged in col- .
letting Information, others may be
numed.
It was said that doubt no longer ex-,
Isted as lo whether there bad been'
combinations of men to boost coal j
prlcea and that effective means to
punish those who have violated the law
In contributing to the rises were being
studied. '
President Wilson and the cabinet
discussed the situation today and It is
understood decided to await for dis
closures before reaching a conclusion.
1'nited States Attorney Anderson, of
lloston. conducting the investigation. !
called at the White House, conferred
for several hours with interstate 10m
merce commission officiils, spent some '
time with Oliver E. Pagan, the depart-
ment's expert on drawing indictments. 1
and dispatched fresh instructions to '
the field force of investigators through- I
out the country. j
The interstate commerce commission
began work on a mass of information '
relallng'lo cur shortage and coal hlp-
merits, for use In contemplated prose- !
cutlons. The two situations. It was'
said, were closely related.
Interstate commerce commission
statistics are understood to show that
at the height of the rise In coal prices,
at a time when there was an apparent
shortage in the supply, hundreds of
loaded cars stood in railroad yards in i
the jniddle west. i
Scarcity of refrigerator cars for ship- I
ment of perishable foodstuffs was re-
ported to have been caused by failure
of conslgnejs to handle them promptly.
New Eight Hour
Law Waits While
Plans Talked Over
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Dec. 8. Congres
sional action on President Wilson's
railway legislation program probably
will await the result of efforts of labor
leaders to draft us a substitute for all
forms of compulsory arbitration an
agreeable plan for dealing with strikes,
actual and threatened.
The determination of President Wil
son to pass legislation making Impos
sible such a situation as he faced last
September In the railroad dispute has
aroused all branches of labor to the
greatest activity. The unofficial alli
ance between the American Federation
of Labor and the four railway Broth
erhoods arranged for the purpose,
among other things, of opposing "dan
gerous" legislation, is bearing its first
fruit In Conferences between repre
sentatives of both organizations for the
purpose of drafting a plan that will
shelve all compulsory arbitration bills.
Samuel Gompers, president of the
American Federation of Labor, said
tonight that no concrete plan had been
worked out.
"I can't give any details of what will
be accomplished," he eald. "This,
though, I will 'say: Organized labor
always will oppose any form of com
pulsory arbitration.
If a scheme satisfactory to the work
ers Is drafted, it is understood it will
be submitted to representatives of the
railroads and other employers and to
the president.
The senate commerce committee
will continue to bear testimony on the
railway situation generally; the house
committee which Tramed the Adamson
act for the present will not touch the
railway situation, In so far its it Con
cerns" the president's program, and in
the meantime labor leaders, employers
and the president can be carrying on
their negotiations,
HAVE STATIONS
BUILT AT BE
DECEMBER 9, 1916
. . .
FOREIGNERS
GIVE VILLA
WHILE IN
Republican A. P. Leaied Wire
El.. I'ASO. Dec. 8. Francisco Villa!
for ed foreign and native merchants of j
Chihduhua City to raise a sum esti-l
mated at $40,000 gold alter he entered;
the state capital, refugees and letters jcalhedral including "EI Nuevo Mun
. received from that city say. .According i do," "La Perla de Orlente," "Talamas
to these accounts, i ilia ordered the Hermanns" and all of the other big
merchants to meet him in his military , general merchandise stores in the same
headquai teds and pledge him forced block. Every one was assessed a forced
loans under threat of death. Villa also j loan, the letter stated, one German
junnounced he intended to kill all firm paid 100,000 pesos in merchandise.
Americans and Chinese found In the j The fighting was so fierce in Zarco
(City and assured Germans and other avenoe. the letter added, the telephone
foieigners Uiey were sate as long as . cable was torn to pieces by the artillery
! he was in the city.
I Jose poiio, an Italian who was or
I dered fty Villa to notify the merchants
j lo meet him and arrange the forced
Jioan. said Villa offered Cailos Ketelsen,
the German vice consul a special train
I to send his countrymen to the border,
I Poiio, who leached the border last
night with his daughter-Kritn.-.M a, told
la story of how Villa had supper at his
honse and insisted upon paying for the
meal in spite of liovios protest. He stores riy villa. A reiort was received
said Villa warned him not to permit his l here that Villa had hidden much of his
young and pretty daughter to go out loot in the mountains of western Chi
on the streets for fear some iire:rpon- huahua, being unable to carry it with
sible soldier of Villi might h;'ni her. him on the march. Included among
poiio also said Villa got twenty this buried loot was said to have been
cannon with some shells anal a quantity number of rifles, uniforms and other
of small aims ammunition. He said . military stores stolen from the arsenal
Villa left Chihuahua 'itv Friday night
hurriedly after hearing of GeneraJ
Mulgula's defeat of i'la forcea at
Maula. He estimated at le.i.t !W" .-ol-iliers
were killed lining the 1 a 1 1 ! - and
that many soldiers of the i,e fa to gov-!
ernement were executed after the; on tne Horner and in .Mexico, it be
evacuation. - ' Icame known tonight. This was said by
Povio said La urea no Holguin. tbe!ne government agent to be a strong
mayor of the city, was killed by mis-' indication of the government's ap
take. At least Villa sent a message to 'Parent Intention to lift the embargo on
Holguin'a widow telling her Holguin ammunition to Carranza territory,
had been shot without his knowledge j This, it Has said, resulted from the
or consent. (complain: of the Carraza officials that
llovlo said the stores were burned General Trevino was forced to evaru
back of the cathedral because they be- e Chihuahua City liecause of his in
longed to Emeliano Enriquez. a friend ' ability to get ammunition with which
of General Treiino. Villa threatened tu J defend the city against Villa.
blow up the plant of the American I
Smelting and Refining company near( Moving South
Chihuahua City, according to Hovlo but 1 DUl'GLAS. Dec. 8. The Third and
was persuaded not to wreck it. 'Sixth battalions Sonora infantry, num-
A letter received by a foreign ref u-1 'wring nine hundred men. left Agua
gee from Chihuahua City today i tin-' Prieta today for Naco, from where
firmed the report of Villa's forced loan. I 'hey w ill entrain for Hermosillo. from
This letter, said General Trevino made' where they will march to Dolores pass
ti strong defensive fight and could have on the Sonora-Chihuahua border, for
won had he had enough ammunition, the purpose of blocking the threatened
General Trevino held out as long as1 Villa invasion it was stated officially
possible in the hope General Murguia at the headquarters of General P. Ellas
would arrive from the. south with am-1 Calks, military commander of Sonora.
munition for him. News reaching General Calles from
The letter said Pascual Melia. an at- General Mursylia indicted that his eol
torney prominent during the Orozco umn was pursuing scattered Villtsta
revolution, had been executed, as well detachments toward the pass and they
as Semirs Hureuaga.. Agustin Ramos
and five others, including Laureano' (Continued on Page Six)
Progressives Will Confer
(Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, Dec. 8. A call for a conference of progressives not in
sympathy with former leaders of the party "in asking the republican old
guard to give ue places an the republican executive committee," was issued
tonight by Matthew Hale of Massachusetts, acting chairman of the pro
gressive national committee. The step follows the overtures made by
Raymond Robins, Gilford Pinchot and others at a meeting in Chicago
this week.
The progressives are asked to meet in New York December 15 to
arrange plans for the conference, to be held later in St. Louis. Mr. Hale
says the liberals of the nation "must organize regardless of their past party
affiliations and regardless of their choice for president this fall," and that
it is to form a nucleus for such a new and broader liberal organization that
the St. Louis conference Js called.
"We progressives always have been more interested in the success of
the principles for which we are fighting than in the existence of our party
as a separate entity," says the call. "We always have been ready to sup
port either of the old parties when either of them commits itself irrevocably
to a really liberal program. Until then, however, we are not democrats;
we are not republicans; we are progressives. ' ,
"We are unwilling to compromise with the old guard of either party.
We are willing to cooperate in every way with the liberal element of either
party. We stand ready -to help President Wilson at all times and in all
ways in his fight to liberalize the democratic party, and we stand ready
to help Hiram Johnson of California at all times and in all ways in his
fight to liberalize the republican party.
"Sooner or later the liberal element of all parties and of all sestions,
north and south, east and wsst, will unite to form a really coherent and
really national jiberal party perhaps under one of the old party standards,
perhaps under a new standard and will complete the work begun so
splendidly by Woodrow Wilson and Hiram Johnson."
Huge Dreadnaughts Planned
flepubbcar A. P. Leaied Wire
WASHINGTON. Dec. S. Preliminary
work on the 1U1S national defense pro
gram moved forward today In both the
naval and military committees of tlie
house, with Rear Admiral Hadger nd
Kleft her of the navy's general iHiard
before the former, and Quartermaster
General Sharpe before the: latter.
The two admirals told of the board's
recommendation for an enormous In
crease in size and power and a smaller
increase In speed for the battleships
to be provided for at this session of
congress.
"Pecause of the 'tendency of Eu
ropean navies ot build even larger
ships and guns, and beinuse there is
reason to believe that- Japan already
has under construction a more power
Last Appeal of
, ' Against
r Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HAVRE, Km nee, Dec. K A prolest
against deportations of fbigians, has
been sent Generral von Bisslng. mili
tary governor of Belgium. The pro
test, signed by five hundred Judges
and members of the Belgium bar.
characterizes the deportations as in
"contempt of neutral rights, of the
statute law and of the , law of he
nations."
Twenty Belgian senators and twert-ty-lhree
Belgian dlplnjlllUS now living
in Brussels took the personal risk of
signing the protest. They also sent
copies of the prolest to Brand Whit
lock, the -American minister to Belg
ium and tn the diplomatic representa
tives of other countries.
12 PAGES
MADE TO
HUGE SUM
CHIHUAHUA
Holguin, Emiliano Enriquez had also
been executed. All were prominent in
Chihuahua City.
The letter also confirmed the looting
and burning of the stores back of the
shells anil the poles shattered.
Enroute to Chihuahua.
JL'AREZ, Mex., Dec. . A train left
here today for Chihuahua City carrying
a number of troops from the garrison
here. A number of these soldn'rn were
those who came north after the evacua
tion of the city by General Trevino.
Food is reported o be scarce in Chi-
huahua ity because of the looting of
in the capital.
May Lift Embargo
EL PASO, Dec. s. 1'nited States
agents here have ben asked to make
report on the ammunition situation
ful ship than lias yet been planned for
the 1'nited States, Admiral Hadger
said the board felt it necessary that
the American ,navy follow a similar
polio. He said the board has recom
mended main batteries of twelve 1K
inch guns, an increase of f if er cent
In gun power over 1917 ships, and a
speed of 2J knots an hour.
A statement issued lodav bv Sec
retary Daniels indicates that the rec
ommendations of the board will be ap-
llnil-pil u hen tl-tn i if.. ...... 1 : i.
' "I'omi ion is iaiii
before the icommlttee. The new dread-J
.uMfrhtu ...III .11 l . .. . . . 1
,,ne,,.,. ,, uiapiuce prooaoiv more
than 40.000 tons as against the 3J.OO0
for the California class and succeeding
ships.
"I llir l1-- Bhfla ,1-111 an.l....l.t .t.
l ; hjiri ict "fjji" of armament the)
Belgians
Being Deported
The letter lo General von Hissing
begins as follows:
"Excellency, it seemed that no per
secution could be addqd to thosewith
which we have weighed down since
the occupation of our country 1 Our
liberties have been abolished, our in
dustry and commerce annihilated our
raw material and instruments of labor
exported, our public fortune ruined,
destitution succeeding our circum
stances. 'Privations, anguish and bereave
ment, all we have endured, without
other revolt that the mute protesta
tions of our souls. We suffered in
common and our common iiains light
ened thi- burden of our individual
misery."
VOL. XXVI L, NO. 201
OFFICERS KB
BANDITS 10
1 ROBBED BANK
The men who robbed the bank of
JSuckeye and killed Charles Minr.
are Manuel Garcia, Francis -o Kiieta,
Pedro 4'ano and an unknown M-m-can.
The man who fired the fatal
shot was Cano. Garcia lived with his
brother Jesus Garcia, near the Wash
ington school. Cano lied bey m I
Peoria at a little settlement called
APaloma.
This information lame to the sher
iffs office through the discowrv on
Wednesday by a voung man near the
Washington school, of three suMle
in a field near that place. He ia 1
neara or the bank robbery and tn
murder and of the pursuit of thrc
or four Mexicans. He sent word to
town and when he went back to th-
place where he had seen the saddles.
they were gone. Acting on this in
formation. Sheriff Adams went out
to the place accompanied by Deputy
Sheriff Murphy. They found where
the horses had been taken into th.
field where the saddles were seen
und then trailed them out of the field
to a point north t the Arizona canal
where the horses then were. Two of
them were identified as horses be
longing to Jesus Garcia. The other
nobody knew anything about but it iv
believed th:it it is the property of the
strange Mexican. These horses filled
the description of the animals ridden
by the bandits from Buckeye and
Jesus Garcia seemed to be closelv
connected w ith the -rime. But it va i
later shown tnat he was innocent and
that his brother Manuel was one of
the- robtiers.
The facts were drawn out if him
and his wife slowly. The woman was
ouestioned at first regarding the
saddles. Sic Si:id that one of them
'elonzed to a neighbor. Ortego. win
had culled for it that day but 't ;n
gore. Replying to the sheriffs ques
tion why Ortego had asked for t'ie
saddle, she said that he had leird
that a hank had been robbed. S'i"
could not connect that knowledge
though w ill- the anxiety i f 'rteija :
recover his saddle.
I'ut finally tie woman told all she
knew. She said that Manuel Riveni.
and the unknown Mexican 1' ft the
house on Monda.- night: that they
were joined on the way by Cano.
They returned home on Wednesday
morning and haling taken the life is
into the fi'id where the saddles v . ce
found, thry led them out to th vicinitv
v her thev were found end weer.
they hid been pasturing tbruiab t!i--
summer and fall. Thev re"irm d
the tent and slept' all day. They t,,l I
what they had clone: of the prob.-,i,le
death of i" man et tin ki ve shot by
iano nnd then Manuel gave yvr si;..
Manuel told her he w. s going aw n
th.it right. He had a team of mole,
and lie told the woman to tell h-r
husband to sell them and make any
use he chose of the moni-v. S-om
after i.irht fall Cano came i, it.i a
' hore and buggy. The four ni"ii put
th? three saddles in, climbed in an 1
left toward the west.
Jes.is Garcia was 4:t at home at
the time hut he was curiously mur
the scene of ti e robbery a;l m ir
der. In fart, he w itnessed it but d
not know what was going on and s; II
J es did he suspect that his brotl.'-i
jvs engaged in it He had been etn
j ployed I y Charles Davis to assist in
i driving some cattle to Bin key for
I shipment. lie with !-everil others
iwei-p engaged about ti e t attle yr I
1 nine distance' from the Buckeye b.n.k
when they heard the shooting and
! saw people running and heard them
I shouting. Davis said be climbed un.u
i a freight car and witnessed tie-
I scene though he did l ot then k::c.,v
what it meant.
Atter midnight of Thursday, 'h
sheriff ;'.nd Deputy Murphy Went to
i-the home cf Cano at Altalotni. Ti'-ey
I found only his wife and a boy. The
! story (old by MYs Cano of the mo,.--,
ment of her husband since .mn!,ty
night agreed with that th ofic r
'had r.eard from Mrs. Gari ia. He :ir
! rived home from the HuiUeve rai l
'ahr.id of the otbers and it is. th-re-
fore, believed that he is the b u"
i horseman whose trail led away from
that i"f 'he three bandits folloeei' l i
the posse and now ami then h-d b o k
In it p.aaln. Finally it left the ir. ii
j of the three ai'd it was t'ien i , -i
haps, that Cano struck out ura-g'u
Continued on Page Two"
general board recommends." the sec
retary's statement said after explain
ing that only the question of limited
facilities led the secretary to alter the
btiard's recommendations as to the
number of ships to be laid down In
1917.
"I agree thoroughly with the general
board." it added, "that we should buii-l
this year as great a part of our pro
gram as possible, and I think utv
recommendations have reached tlie
limit of that possibility, if indeed I
have not exceeded somewhat the l-r..--tical
capasity of our shipyard."
The board recommended the con
struction of four battleships and two
battle cruisers while the secretary held
that three battleships and one buttle
cruiser were all hat could be und, i -taken
in view of the tremendous pro
gram contracted for this year.
General Sharpe brought out the fact
that the army still is far behind mi
recruiting for the IP! 7 increment of
the increase in strength nlivsdy
authorized. His statement was in line
with that of Major General Hugh I..
Scott, chief of staff. In his annual re
port, made public today. General Scott
declared that universal military train
ing and service would be tlie oily
solution to the recruiting problem.
Secretary Baker's attitude on the
universal service question has not been
disclosed. It was stated authoritativt ly
today that the secretary had read Gen
eral Scott's reort before it was pub
lishd and authorizd the fullest publica
tion of the views of the general staff
as here stated, but reserving bis own
Judgment. Mr. Baker's views probably
will be drawn1 out before the com
mittee. Universal service also came up at
the naval committee hearing. Admiral
Badger saying that this was the "one
grand answer" to all problems of ob
tninins crews for navy ships,
I
