WF METAL PRICES " " 'jl iijJ dAk IwVV ; 4 E C1TY EN I
11 NEW Y0 0TATI0NS ;i II II PU UUTL3lLi1 lUJiiXlf twenty-eight pages
f I .. - FEARLESS. INDEPENDENT. PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER, - H
- 1 1 j Forty-sixth Year No. 305. Prlco Flv Cents. " OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 9, 1916. Entered as Second-Class Matter at the Postofflce, Ogden, Utah
i Greece Preparing to Join Teutons I
I in Attack on Allies in Macedonia I
j London, Dec. 9, 2:45 p. m. A German warslip has succeeded in running the British cordon in the North sea, according to the report of a ship captain who says his !
-I I vessel -was held up and examined in the Atlantic. The vessel is not a cosv$rted merchantman, the captain said on Is arrival here, foist is a regular light cruiser. il
! ! VON MCfiENSEf S HUGE
i ARMY TO TURN NEXT ON
; ENTENTE IN SALONIKI,
Greek Situation Grows Critical Attack on Ales
I May Be Made Simultaneously With Teutonic
! Attack From the North.
j Petrograd, Dec. 9, via London. In the province of Wal-'
j lachia, says the Russian official statement issued today, the
j Rumanian troops under unceasing hostile pressure continue
A to retire to the eastward. In constequence of this, it- is stated,
I the Russian troops who are on the left flank of the Rumanians
I also are retiring.
I Petrograd, Dec. 9, via London, 11:55 a. m. Russian
J troops on the northern Rumanian front attacked the Teutonic
j forces in the Putna valley region yesterday and dislodged them
I from two heights, the war office announces. They took 500
j prisoners including ten officers, six machine guns, two bomb
S mortars and one carinon.
ii The situation in Greece is not only
I again of decided political intereat, but
i potentially of marked military Import,
i in connection with the supposed, pur
pose of the central empires to turn
important sections of Field Marshal
! von Mackensen's huge army in Ru-
mania upon the entente's Salonikl
j army.
Correspondents in Greece report a
! persistently hostile attitude 'by King
Constantino and the Greek royalists
toward the entente and declare efforts
!' are being made to gather a strong
; army in the Larisha region for an at
! tack upon the entente forces from tbo
i rear simultaneously with attacks by
! the Teutonic attacks from the north,
j British military writers call atten
tion to these contingencies and deci
l sive action with regard to Greece is
It and the safety of the entente forces
f in Macedonia.
j Latest reports from the Rumanian
. campaign reflect the continued rotire-
1 ment of the Russo-Rumanian forces in
'. eastern Wallachia, with the figures of
' T captures of men and materials by the
f. invaders constantly growing.
5 ' Little of interest is ocurrlng on the
p Franco-Belgian front. The only hap
pening mentioned by either London or
Paris Is an artillery action in the rc
gion of Hill 304 on the Verdun front
; where the French and Germans have
?, again been disputing possession of
!; this height.
i Quiet on West Front.
i London, Dec. 9, 11:14 a. m. No im
portant events occurred on the Fran-
co-Belgian front during the night, the
Avar office announced today.
! Danish Steamship Sunk.
:! London, Dec. 9, 9:15 a. m. Lloyd's
j reports the sinking of the Danish
i steamship Sigurd, 2119 tons gross, and
i'f. of the British sleamsaips Avristan,
;i 381S tons, Couch, 5620 and Tanfleld.
if rn
Memorandum Will Explain in
Detail Deportation of Bel
gian Laborers Into
Germany.
E Berlin, Thursday, Dec. 7, via Lon-
i don, Dec. 9, 10:05 a. m. Gormany re-
l ply in a day or two with a-momoran-
it' dum to tbo representations which
Joseph C. Grew, secretary of the
American embassy, has been making
regarding the deportation of Belgian
. laborers. The reply is expected to fo.l-
IU low w. e same lines as that made to
V the Belgian protest through the Span-
lsh government, the substance of
V which was published in the North Ger-
man Gazette this morning. The re-
s suit of Secretary Grew's conference
A with Chancellor vori Bcthmann-HoJ-
tt weg on tho subject probably will be
. while the principle of using unem-
I ployed Belgians in Germany would be
1$ cohered to, pains will be taken to see
fV that it is accurately applied. It is
explained that it has not always been
! possible to prevent the measure bo-
; " ing applied to Belgians, not of the un-
employed class,, but that greater care
being exercised and tnat with the
T
Belgian lists it is thought the measuro
can, be restricted to the classes which
it is designed to effect. '
The position of the German-government
on the deportations was outlined
in a statement made on Thursday
and transmitted in news dispatches on
Friday.
nn
GERMAN ANSWER
Steamer Seebeck Was With
out Lights and With No
Means of Distinguishing.
Berlin, Dec. 8, 3:30 p. m. Via Lon.
dori, Dec. 9, 8:30 a. m. The German
answer to the American inquiry re
garding the sinking of the Seebeck has
been despatched to Washington. The
steamer Seebeck, according to Ger
man information, was steaming with
out lights or any Indication of its
nationality in the immediate vicinity
of a hostile naval port and there were
no means of distinguishing it from
an enemy warship.
No details in regard to the sink
ing of the Seebeck have been re
ceived here and available shipping
records do not list the vessel.
The foregoing probably refers to the
sinking of the vessel alluded to in a
German admiralty statement of Octo
ber 20 last as "the armed British
transport steamer Sedek," sunk in
the Mediterranean by a German sub
marine on October 12. It was as
sumed that the British steamer See
beck, of 4,601 tons gross, built in
"West Hartlepool in 1909, was the ves
sel in question.
nn
BIG BREAK IN
COnONMARKET
Prices Drop Ten to Fifteen
Points Making a 75-Point
Drop in Twenty-four
Hours.
New York, Dec. 9. A renewal of
general heavy liquidation following
yesterday's big break in prices caused
excitement verging upon demoraliza
tion in tho cotton market hero today.
For a time prices broke ten to fifteen
points between sales and before there
was any pause in tho decline March
contracts had sold at $18.50, or 75
points under last night's close and
the general list was fully $14 a bale
below the recent high records.
Covering caused rallies of 20 to 30
points from tho lowest as soon as the
pressure diminished but the market
wag still extremely unsettled and nerv
ous late in the forenoon.
. 00
London (England) nurses are to have
a $25,000 clubhouse.
loo
This country has 380 piano manu-factories.
MUSIC AND CAREER -HAVE
NO CHARMS
FOR THIS PRODIGY
William Naumann.
A genuine juvenile prodigy turned
tip tho other day in the New-York City
Children's court, in the person of
Master William Naumann, thirteen
years old. William, a runaway from
the choir school of the Church of the
Messiah at Rhinebeck, N. Y., said in
court that he could see no future as
a choir singer and that he ran away
-to be a newsboy on the 'streets of-"
New York where "a man can be a
man." He is a soprano singer with
an unusual range of voice, and be
sides he is a sketch artist, a dancer
and a sculptor of merit.
Ruining Own Credit and Pav
ing the Way for Govern
ment Ownership.
EARNINGS ARE GROWING
Should Stop Complaining and
Supply Equipment Which
Public Urgently Needs.
Washington, Dec. 9. Railroads
were accused of trying to ruin their
own credit and laying the foundation
for federal ownership by Max Thelan,
president of tho National Association
, of Railway Commissioners, in resum
ing his testimony before the congres
sional investigating committee.
"The railroads are in a hysteria of
pessimism," he said, "with earnings j
beyond all previous records and con
stantly growing larger. Tho railroads
seemed to be engaged In the absurd
task of trying to ruin their own credit.
If they were really acting in tho pub
lic interest, as they claim to be, they
would stop complaining about public
regulation and would devote them
selves to supplying the cars, equip
ment, terminal facilities and exten
sions which the public urgently re
quires. "The talk of the railroads about
forty-nine masters is simply language
to tickle the ears. No railroad in
the United States runs through more
man one-third of forty-eight states.
Although all other corporations which
do "business in different states are
subject to regulation by each such
state, nobody except the railroads is
complaining."
nn
RUSSIA CONDEMNS
. ENTENTE POLICY
London, Dec. 9, 9 a. m. A Router's
Petrograd despatch quotes the Novoe
Vromya as condemning the policy of
the entente in "conducting Intermin
able deliberations whilo King Con
stantino is waging open war on the
allies.
"The government and court at
Athens," says the Novoe Vremya, "are
our enemies and In Germany's ser
vice. Why do we continue to recog
nize as legitimate, government authori
ties at Athens who are reduced to
acting as a section of the German
staff '"
oo i
United textile workers have doubled
their membership within a year.
V,
Hearing a rumor that the price of
coal was to be given another boost
by the mine-owners, a reporter today
asked Judge John B. Bagley what he
thought of the high cost of living and
whether he knew of any law to fit
the situation.
"I' beliove tho RECENT raise in the
price of coal was unlawful," Judge
Bagley replied. "The raise was made
November 20. It seems to have been
rby preconcerted arrangement between
the mine-owners and the coal-dealers.
The retail dealers all gave notice at
the same time that the price was to
be raised 60 cents. By agreement,
the local dealers raised the price 15
cents more, increasing the price 75
cents the ton to consumers.
How Price is Governed.
"Ordinarily, the price of a thing,
especially necessaries of life, are regu.
lated by supply and demand. If wo
have a great supply, whether tho
weather be warm or cold, the price
generally goes down. When the sup.
ply is limited and there's a great de
mand, prices generally goes up. On
November 20,. without any considera
tion of this ancient rule, there was a
combination and agreement that the
price of coal should be raised. It WAS
so raised and.ths consumers are pay
ing the penaltVj&Pricesare not regu
lated by . buppSf&and ue"nr?.n,d, but by
the consumers' necessity.
Lav Covering the Case.
"In the Compiled Laws of Utah,
1907, Section 1753, reads, as follows:
'Any person, or association of persons,
who shall create, enter ,into become
a member of or party to any pol, trust,
a member of or partj' to any pool, trust
or understanding, with any other per
son or persons to regulate or fix the
price of any article of merchandise,
or commodity, or shall enter into any
any pool, trust, agreement, contract,
combination, to fix or limit the
amount of any article, commodity or
merchandise to be manfactured,
mined, produced or sold in this stato
snau oe ueemea guiuy 01 conspiracy
to defraud and be subject to punish
ment' os hereinafter provided.'
"Section 1755 says: 'If any corpor
ation, company, firm or association,
etc., shall be found giulty of a viola
tion of this statute, the penalty shall
'be a fine not less than $100 nor more
than 2,000 for the first offense; for
, the second offense not less than $500
nor more than $5,000; for the third
offense not less than $5,000 nor more
than $10,000, and for every subsequent
offense shall be fined $15,000
"Section 1750 provides further that
any person, manager, director, or oth
er officer, agent, or receiver, or any
corporation, company-, firm, assocla
tion, or any member of any corpora
tion, company, firm, association, found
guilty of a violation of this statute
shall be punished by a fine of not
less ian $100, nor more, than $1,000,
or by Imprisonment in the county jail
not more than one year, or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
Question of Guilt.
"It would seem from a reading ot
this law that there would be very
little question about the guilt of any
corporation, association or individual
who attempts to fix tho price of any
article of merchandise or commodity,
and, if our distrait, attorney, county
attorney, city attorney, or the attor
ney-general of this stato would give
this matter earnest and serious atten
tion, it would go very far toward holp
ing the people against the unjust ex
tortion that is being exacted from
them on the price of this one article
alone. Of course, tthls law refers
equally well to any combination fix
ing the price of butter, eggs, sugar,
or any other article.
As to Car Shortage.
"It has been published abroad that
the reason the price of coal was
raised because of a shortage of cars;
that we haven't an efficient means
of transportation from the mines to
the consumer.
"A reputable witness, who is a prom,
inent official of this city, was at Price,
Utah, during llio last week in Novem
ber (just before the price was raised)
and he stated to me that he found
more than a thousand cars of coal
standing on the side-tracks in the im
mediate vicinity of that place; that
the same conditions obtain at Rock
Springs, Wyo., and, instead of lacking
cars, there Is a superabundance of
cars ready for transportation uses.
Stealing on Weights?
"I'm further told by dealers here
that the weights of cars aro mado at
mines, weighed at tho mino and not
rewelghed until delivered to tho deal
er. Prominent dealers havo informd
m that there's a lpss and shrinkage in
cars of coal, generally .speaking, of
from 500 to 5000 pounds on each car.
I cannot concolvo why a mino owner
should not be obliged to deliver to the
dealer at his place of business the
amount of coal contracted for. In-
deed, this matter two years ago was
taken up by the legislature, which
passed a law requiring the weight of
a car to be made at the place of
destination, instead of at the mines.
This law, of course, would have made
the railroad company and mine owner
responslbl for the 'shrinkage,' but
Governor Spiy vetoed that bill. I'm
not discussing the merits of that veto,
but I would urge an appeal to the
coming legislature for the re-enactment
and enforcement of that law.
Delay in Transit.
"I'm informed by Ogden dealers that
coal in transit takes four or five times
as long as it ought to in reaching the
destination from the mines. A carload
ought to reach Ogden within two and
a hair days at the outside, whereas
ordinarily it takes ten to fifteen days.
This is all wrong and should be rem
edied. There's no excuse for it what
ever. If it is simply due to inefficient
transportation, a remedy can be ap
plied. "If one receive a car1 of coal or
any other commodity and does not,
within a short specified- time, unload
that car,, tho raiiroad charges a per
diem demurrage. The,, result is Uiat
cars are unloaded quickly to avoid
paying demurrage. That is proper
enough. A man should take his prop
erty out of the car at the end of the
journey and not use the trackage as
a place of storage.
"But, what is fair for one is fair
for another. It the legislature will
pass a law as soon as it "assembled
subjecting the railroads to a reciprocal
demurrage of $2 a day for delay in
shipments, that amount to be paid to
the purchaser or owner of the com
modity, it would not be many hours,
before the sidetracks at Price, Rock
Springs and other places were per
fectly clear of. coal. I urge this upon
the members of the coming legislature
as one of the necessary things to be
looked after without delay.
Public Utilities Commission.
"Our coming legislature in passing
the public utilities bill should provide
for the appointment or election of a
commission of three or more members
to be given certain powers to regulate
interstate commerce and also to regu
late any public utility within the
boundaries of the state. I suggest
that this commisison be given the
power, among others, of a state-wide
grand jury, empowered to look after
the general welfare of tho people, to
examine into all condjtions concerning
public property and utilities, and, if
they find in any county that tho law
is being violated, they shall at once
direct the district attorney, county at
torney or other officers to proceed
immediately in the prosecution of the
violators of the law.
People Exasperated.
"The peoplo of this state, like those
of the other states, are EXASPERAT
ED at the unnatural high cost of liv
ing. Various remedies are being dis
cussed and tried. Tne boycott is be
ing used effectively in some places.
Those remedies will have their bene
fits, but the main thing is to see that
the laws we havo aro OBEYED in
lotter and spirit, th?t our officers pros
ecute all persons violating same, and,
where we haven't sufficient remedies
provided, the legislature should at
once proceed to enact such laws as
are needed to benefit the people.
Long Term Necessary.
"It has been suggested that the com
ing legislature quickly do business and
adjourn; that it could get through
in thirty days and save expenses. I
want to say that if the coming legisla
ture does Its duty and fulfills the
pledges of tho Democratic party, as
tho people expect and demand, it will
be busy SIXTY FULL DAYS at least
and will not then complete tho work
that should be done for the benefit
of the people."
00 '
HUGE EXPORT SALES
BOOM WHEAT PRICES
Chicago, Dec. 9. Renewal of ten
sion at Washington as to -apparent
German infractions of tho agreement
with the United States about submar
ine attacks have largely offset during
the last couplo of days the bullish
effect that earlier this week in the
wheat market was due to huge export
sales. December delivery of wheat
lost 3 l-2c in value as compared with
a week ago, but deferred options
scored gains of 5-Su to 5 3-4c. Corn
advanced l 3-4 to 3 l-8c for the week
Chris G. Gannon, a well-kncffm
workingman, was mysteriously mur
dered for the purpose of either rob
bery or revenge, some time during the
night of Wednesday, December 6,
near the west end of the Wasatch
tunnel, which is three and a half miles
west of Wasatch station, Summit
county. The slayer used a pick, re
peatedly striking Gannon on the head.
Any one of the blows-was sufficient
to cause death.
After searching the dead man's
pockets, the murderer threw the body
over a 25-foot embankment into the
mouth of a culvert, where it was acci
dentally found Thursday morning at
8:30 o'clock by one of the workmen
and oats a shade to lc. The outcome
in provisions varied from 75c decline
to a rise of 2 l-2c.
All eyes in the wheat trade turned
quickly whenever developments ap
peared likely to Increase, or diminish
the amount of export shipments from
the United States. At first abandon
ment of the proposed sale of $50,
000,000 of British and French treasury
treasury bills seemed 'to have put the
bears at a decided disadvantage and
there was much uneasinoss regarding
virtually unfounded reports that ef
forts had been maae to cancel the
purchase of millions of bushels of
wheat intended for Great Britain.
Tightening up of interest rates Mon
day on call loans acted as a further
handicap on the bulls, but Tuesday
and Wednesday tho friends of higher
prices were greatly encouraged by-immense
foreign purchase credited in
the main to Holland, Belgium and
Greece. Announcement was also
made that President Wilson would di
rectly oppose any embargo on food
stuffs. Anxiety over the submarine issue
with Germany, dominated tho wheat
marked on Thursday and Friday.
Sentiment in favor of a decline in
quotations received consiaeraDie im
petus too from a likelihood that ship
ments from tho United States to
Greece would be stopped by an Anglo
French blockade. The intensification
of the railway embargoes east of
Chicago formed another source of de
pression as the week drew to an end.
Corn and oats were bearishly af
fected by the approaching close of
lake navigation and the consequent
restriction of eastern outlets. Be
sides, indications seemed to point to
enlarged receipts soon as a result of
a more liberal supply of railway cars
In the west.
Increasing arrivals of hogs weak
ened provisions, in addition there was
said to have been a falling off in
tho sales of meats to tho south.
EMPEROR MEETS KAISER.
Berlin, Dec. 9, by wireless to Say-vliie.T-Emperor
Charles has visited
tho German general headquarters
where he conferred with Emperor
William. Field Marshal von Hinden
burg and Field "Marshal Conrad von
Hoetzendorf were present.
at tho camp who went about 100 yards
from the bunk-house into the canyon
to get wood to replenish the campfire. IH
Mr. Gannon had been employed by
Kilpatrlck and Collins, contractors. IH
After receiving his pay he had gone
to Evanston to make some purchases.
On his return he slept at the camp
al the tunnel. During the night he"
left the bunk-house for some purpose.
The officers believe he was seized and
murdered and had no chance to cry
for help.
Sheriff Ryan and Deputy Glenn Cox
of Summit county are working hard ,
to discover clews to the slayer. It ,
was a particularly brutal and needless
murder.
High Cost of .Living to Be
iGiyjen.Naiion-.vide.In- .
vestigation. 'H
Washington, Dec. 9. Federal grand I
jury investigations into tho high cost ,
of living were ordered today by Attor- 1 IH
noy-General Gregory to begin at once
in New York and in Detroit next
week. iH
Similar investigations in Cleveland,
Kansas City, St. Louis, Minneapolis jH
and other points are under considera-
Frank M. Swacker, an assistant at- IH
tQrhey-general of the government in IH
the New Haven case, will be asked IH
to take charge of the New York inves-
tigation. 11
nn ll
GOVERNMENT SHOULD 1
OWN RADIO STATIONS I
Washington, Dec. 9. Authority to '
establish a government monopoly of
r&dio communication between ship
and shore stations through the pur-
chase of all private radio stations in ' WM
the United States is to be sought fl
from congress, according to Comman
der D. W. Todd, director of naval
j communications. il
I "The necessity for strong govern
ment control of radio communications
becomes more necessary as ship and jH
shore stations increase In number,"
Director Todd says in his annual re
port given out today. "Interference
and consequent inefficient communica- iH
tion will continue until such control WM
is obtained." El
00 IH
Nova Scotia has a workman s com- lfl
pensation law. fH
Miss Elsie E. Barrett, 2221 Grant avenue, wins Turkey this week. IH
Last night the judges awarded to Miss Elsie Barrett, of 2221 Grant H
avenue, the Turkey for Contest No. 4. -
Miss Barrett won the prize on both neatness and originality, placing
the picture of President Wilson in the center of a calendar with an
acorn border. tf jH
At the bottom of the calendar was placed a ' 191 7 Prayer, which JM
reads .as follows : IH
0 Lord, graciously lead us into the joys of Christmas
tide and the mysteries of the New Year. May we not be
content with the pleasures that die with the day, but may we
keep the Eternal Spirit of the blessed Christmas season
throughout the coming year to help us tcf show sympathy, lH
unselfishness and human fellowship to all mankind. May
we know the joy of a glorious hope which will shine on our
horizon with an alluring light, inciting us to geniality and VM
good will. May the President of our United States fulfill a
mission which will tend toward universal good, bringing or- IH
der out of chaos and causing a perfect reconciliation be
tween all Thy children. May we glorify Thy birthday by ' lH
keeping these things in our hearts, crowning it with peace IH
and contentment in the name of Jesus. Amen.
Contest No. 5 will be in the Standard Wednesday night, December
3. Winner of this contest will be announced in Saturday's paper, De-
cember 16.
1 .
