'EM TELL
Call ud your representative* In the home at Olympla
and m«ke 'am tall you why thay want to votr for tha
aania cheap peanut politician* who controlled legnlatlon
In tha P4»t, What la thera In It for them to vota for
Ouy Kelly for apeaker? Vou'ra entitled to know.
INSIDE STORY OF WAR CRISIS
IS TOLD STAR BY LORD NORTHCUFFE
TOURIST AD FUND
DEI LOOKSGOOD
. TO GOV. use
Gov. F:rnest I ister will probably make a formal
recommendation to the legislature tor a publicity fund
appropriation to attract tourists to the state of Wash
ington. I his was indicated in an interview given bv
him to The Star Saturday.
"The tourist rate decision is one of the greatest
boosts the Northwest has had and we are happily in tine
condition to care for increased tourist travel here at this
time," said the governor.
"Our road construction la In (OOd
ahap«. Our syatem of road* will be
a splendid attraction In Itself for
thoa* who want to - Bce America
First."
"I heartily Itftlleve in the value
of advertising our atate In the Kaat.
and the board of finance, of which
I am a member, la Inclined to the
aame view. We are no ' engaged
In making up the budget. *nd If we
foe! that the financial Ituatlon
warrant* It. we will be glad to rec
ommend an appropriation for a
publicity fund.
Worth Whllo Nov*
■wThere has been no time where
/7b publicity waa aa worth while
now."
la 1913. Got. Uster signed »n ap
propriation of 125.000 for publicity
purpose*.
Two moro King county legia
latora have come out In favor of a
publicity appropriation Saturday.
They are Frank H. Renlck and John
K Wllaon
Renlck made the following state
ment:
"MILLION DOLLAR" IDEA A "BIRD,"
SAYS COUNCILMAN FITZGERALD
Councilman recll Plugerald
chairman of the finance committee,
•ay* The Star'* "Million Dollar"
Idea la a "bird."
The Northwest ought to take ad
rentage of thl* tourist rat«> de
elslon." he *ays "And The Star'*
Id'-a about advertising thl* country
*»ut hero I* a 'bird.'
I read It. I thought It
better than anything I'd
ptf-T heard of along that line. The
Biore I think of It. the better It
look*.
"People hack there don't believe
RUMANIA LOSES
70.000 TROOPS
BERLIN. Via Sayvllle, Dec 9.
—The Rumanians are in full
retreat before the advancing
Danube and right German army
wings in Rumania, today's offi
cial statement asserted. Since
Dec. 1, the Rumanians lost
over 70,000 men taken prisoner
by these two armies with 184
cannon and 120 machine guns.
Several thousand* of th<>*« In
eluded a force of Rumanian* which
endeavored to make their way from
tbe pannex northeast of filnaya to
ward the aoutheaHt. Many rannon
were alio captured from th<-m.
ADVERTISING MANAGER'S
DAILY TALK
Full particulars of
the new programs
at Seattle's best
theatres will be
found in today's
Star.
Cultivate that
habit of readinic
a-!* -it'* a Rood
one.
lORE THAN 60,000 COPIES
DAILY
I favivr the rpproprlatlnn by the
legislature of the Iso.ixx>, which I
am Informed will b« ask'd by the
Pacific North*est Tourist aasocla
tlon. to be lined In connection with
similar upproprtatlona by Oregon
and British Columbia In a two-yrar
camp gn to direct tourlat traffic
to th Pacific Northwest
("al *omla and Colorado have
demonstra'ed that a large tourlat
travel meana the expenditure of
million* annually by tourlata aa
well a* Investments by them, which
has much to do with the prosperity
and development of those states
The Pacific Northwest needa lour
lat money and Investments, to d*
vek>p our resources and money
properly eipended In (hat dlrertlon
should bring large return* on the
Investment
Aa all the people of the atate
will benefit from the prosperity and
development resulting from tourlat
traffic. I deem It legitimate and
proper to appropriate public funda
for the puri>o*e of securing this
bualneaa "
what raoit of us tell >m about this
country, and they don't believe clr
culars and booklet*, if a man read
all the circular* and listened to all
the bureau argument*. he wouldn't
know whether to go to Baltimore or
Pensacots* to *pend the Hummer
'But big smash temperature ail
vertlsement* In big dally paner*.
that all live one* read back there,
would smash home the Idea that
this is a fine place to be when thev
can't sleep because of the hear
back there
"I'm certainly In favor of Joint
appropr'atlon from Oregon. Wash
Ington and British Columbia, pro
viding the money I* Investor] | n
some smashing way that will get
over. And the Idea t saw In The
Star of faking page advertisements
telling the tempera'lire here, I* the
only thine I've *een that looks like
a winner."
SCHOOLMARMS MUST
FORGET DAN CUPID
RACINE, Wis., Dec. 9—Maid
en school teachers are In great
demand >-ere today becauss of
the matrimonial proclivities of
their predecessors and the sit
uation has become so serious
that Attorney Geo. W Waller,
of the training school board]
has suggested thjt hereafter ap
plicants for schoolmarm jobs
be forced to sign a contract
binding them not to marry
within the period covered by
such contracts.
Gilmour Dobie, symbol of success, and the
University of Washington have parted company.
In all football history, there is no record equal
to Dobie's. He never lost a game, either in his
nine y?ars at the University of Washington or pre
vious to his coming here.
WJ'o many, Dobie has symbolized more than mere
gridmjn success. He was a winner but his value was
not in that fact alone. The foundation of his success has
been much more valuable to this community.
Dobie gave vitality and the breath nf life to the idea
of team work. Himself a man of unostentatious deport
ment. Dobie built teams, not individual stars Ihe faculty
could pluck a Grimm from the line but the Dobie TKAM
never had to depend on any one player.
Was there inspiration in that for the rest of us? Stop
and think if prosperity is real unless shared by the
whole team by the community. Individuals may make
The Seattle Star
THE ONLY PAPERIN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS
VOLUME 19. SUA 111 H, WASH., SATURDAY, PIC. l'M6. ONE CENT *Z W VVAV... A \.'
Boosts Tourist Trade
Gov. Ernest Litter, who look* with favor upon tho Idea of a con
certed atate publicity campaign.
300 STUDENTS
CHEER DOBIE
Three hundred university
men got out of bed to form a
human petition that serpentined
thru fraternity houses snd on
to the home of Coach Ci'mour
Doßle, near midnight Friday,
as testimony of their regret
that he's not to return as foot
bsll coach nest year.
It was a tribute to the foot
ball coach who has established
a record of nine years of un
broken gridiron victory.
"I'm willing to null football now,"
' Falrt Coach Doble Saturday, "after
that Indorsement fr<*u 300 men who
reflei t the spirit of the student
| Imtly."
Coach t«oble had broken with
President Buzxallo. »ho barked up
the faculty In barring (Srlrom from
the Thank-"giving game Itoble
] stood with members of the team
• hat voted to strike.
Only a day or so ago Doble had
| fold friends he wa* willing to stay
i here If th«re ifva* a unanimous de-
I sire for him Alumni, business men
1 n"d students were bewailing the
pparent loss of the tail Scot In
Northwest athletics.
i think Pre-Ment Suir.sllo has
l iot been opeti-rnlnded enough and
ha* not heard all angles of the
Ulrtmm affair." said Doble "and
1 I can't urn!" rstand him clearly yet.
"For nine year* I have had more
,or leas trouble with some faculty
i members, some of whom didn't be
i lleve In Intercollegiate athletic*
! Others opposed the salaried coach
! system Paction* have grown up I
have made many enemies This
last affair I* just one In many.
I feel pretty good that I've been
able to stay with It for nine years
and not be run over very much
I'll step out now. and forget foot-
DOBIE
*all. 1 think "
It'* en*y to see that Dohle hate* '
to leavi' th<<«c who have been hi* ,
friend* thru the y<:ir* here and
It'ii <•»»*, al*o. to *ee (hut he doesn't j
I want to wrangle with faculty com-j
I rnillj» any more
It'* a iiort of 50-.10 propoaltion—j
Whether he Roe* «r stays, with!
' him.
Some faculty and atudent mem- J
Iter* are o|>enly or aecretly op- '
toned to I* Mr. and have been for !
some time Home nay he la not a
true *|>ort*man
"I have tried to feel I wa* on
the Job for the *tud<nt« to turn
out the beat pn**lhle football ma
chine* on a legitimate baala." D»
ble explained. I have tried not U> I
pttaay foot, or be entirely In the i
band* of faculty men. Of courae,
there are many luemlxr* of a far j
ulty of 2f)o people who don't know I
anything about my work —they
only have an Idealistic theory. Man> V
of I hem have oppoaed me."
Faculty member* put f'apt Sea
grave* thru n grilling and tried lo
find out If Doble had Incited team
member* to the recent strike
"After answering about HOO que*,
lions." Doble said, "Seagrave* told
them one answer would do for all
questions the coach had nothing
tto do with their move but only
felt a* they did about the sltua
t Ion."
Graduate Manager Younger, no
ble *ay*. ha* been hard to get
along with, and would like to aee
the doleful mentor git and a lower
sniarled man come In hi* place,
"Rut the men on thr- team under
stand," Hmlled Doble. and 300 of
the student* do. And that, to me.
I* worth more than anything I
could want/] '
millions and lite hank clearinps may break all records, l>ut
the country remains poor if I lie people as a whole are
poor.
Dobie's success has been phenomenally continuous
because it was founded on the fundamental principle that
Ihc COMMUNITY interest must be served. What a les
son for politicians, economists, and commerce!
We fear President Suzzallo has been unduly
bitter with hi* bare statement that Dobie failed to
contribute toward the university function of "train
ing character." Until there should be more definite
proof of this failure, hitherto unsuspected, Presi
dent Suzzallo, who has been here I it one year,
remains unconvincing against Dobie's nine years
of satisfaction.
The parting with Dobie, at any rate, could
have been much happier.
Describes Part Played in |
It by David Lloyd-George,
Britain's' Man of the Hour'
(I'ollowing is the inci»t remarkable story that lias conic out of the great (-mis in British politics—an inside analysis
of the ama/mg situation which has suddenly changed the whole government, written l>y the man who made it possible—
I.ord Northclifft- In it Northcliffe prclicts that l.loyd-'ieorge will «lire«t the winning of the war; settle the crisis and
maintain K""d will between (ircat Hritam and the United States It is something more than an official statement. —Editor.)
LONDON, Dec. 9.—As a personality, David Lloyd-George is for many reasons in
teresting and important to the United States. He is one of the few British statesmen
understanding that difficult and intangible psychology of the American temperament.
He is important to America for another reason. He is now the head of the
British nations engaged in war—Britain, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South
Africa, together with India.
Winning of the war primarily devolves on these nations. If they and the allies are
beaten, it will be America's turn next, for Germany's plans in South America and Ger
many's hatred of the United States should be known to every American who reads the
: anti-American propaganda of the German government.
HIS LIFE LIKE THAT OF MANY AMERICANS
Lloyd-George is also interesting to your hundred millions because his life has been
very similar to that of many of you.
He began simply, without other assets of life than a good father and mother.
He had the same kind of education that an American boy gets. There are millions
of American homes like the little home in Wales, wherein he spent his early childhood.
His father was teacher of a school in Liverpool, managed by a committee of Unitarians,
including Dr. Harriet Martineau. His mother was a daughter of a Baptist minister in
the Welsh village of Llanystumdwy.
I do not know Lloyd-George in private life; I am not in agreement with him on many
political affairs. We have been publicly antagonistic on many matters during 20 years.
He adopted a line in the Boer war that was not mine, incurring the hatred, even con
tempt, of millions of his fellow subjects. It was a brave line, for it demanded more
courage to be on the side of the minority opposing the war, than to shout with the major
ity supporting it.
ALWAYS SHOWS SAME FINE COURAGE
Since then Lloyd-George has led all sorts of movements at variance with the tenets
of the political party to which I belong. Sometimes he has been right—and proved
right; sometimes he has been wrong—and proved wrong— but in all he has undertaken
he has evinced the same courage shown thruout this one momentous week's history.
CLIMBS UP UDDER
SHE CLIMBED DOWN
OVER 2 YEARS ADO
PHICAfIO, Dec. 9.—Pretty little
Mr* H Mayne Luther, art. ha*
climbed back up the ladder *he
climbed down In her elopement two
year* ago. and today la back with
mother, waiting for the trial of her
divorce *u|t, aomc day within the
next two week*.
Kver since the then Ml** Dorothy
Klewer climbed out of her bedroom
window Into the Anna of her 2.1-
year old lover It ha* been stipulated
by her parent* that she could re
turn only by climbing back up the
ladder and begging forglveneaa from
the window *111. Weary of dancing
nchool and cabaret life In Denver,
and her honeymoon long *lnce
waned. *hn finally gave up and
did It.
By Lord Northcliffe
(Written for the United Prean
(Copyright, 1916. by the United Preti)
(Copyrighted at the Department of Agriculture in Ottawa)
2,000 WOMEN
LAUNCH COST
OF LIVING WAR
Seattle women will hold an
other man meeting to discuss
waya of reducing the cost of
living at the Hippodrome Mon
day, at 2 p. m„ because they
didn't get a chance to vote on
resolutions Friday afternoon.
About 2.000 attended.
University students, getting
ready for their annual Varsity
ball, went thru a spasm of ham
♦ ♦
HERE'S NEW ONE
An eggless, butterleiiH and po
tatoless 25-cent luncheon for
nil members of the Ilomekeep
era' club and nil women inter
ested In that organization's 1
fight on the high cost of living
will be given at noon In the <
Hon Marche tea room Monday, j
Mm. K. M Wiggins, secretary j
t of the Homekeepera' club, an- {
nounced the luncheon, and
«ald thnt It would precede the
adjourned meeting at the Hip- I
podronie, which heglna at 2
P. ni. T
♦ ♦
merlng at 3:40 p. m., which put
the kiboah on the man meeting.
They had rented the Hippo
drome, and decided the women
were keeping them from putting
up their decorations.
The resolution* prepared by n
committee of the Homekeepera' club
recommended u boycott on potatoes
welling for more than !M<l a (on, by
Huhntltutlng hominy, com march
and rice, aald to lie equal In nutrl
Hon. but constant In price, the
direct purchase by parcel post of
poultry and eggs and butter from
Dinners and small producing cream
cries. I.lata of parcel post shippers
were to be obtained from the post
master on application.
I)r. Matthews failed lo show up.
(Continued on pjge 8) 1
LAST EDITION
Ah! Weather Director Saliabury haa a conaclence. He
wlahed a bit of aluah on ua night before laa», and follow
ed it up with a drizzle. But for Sunday he I* behaving
real well. He aaya: "Fair tonight and Sunday."
GRAND JURIES
TO PROBE FOOD
WASHINGTON, Dec. 9—Spe
cial grand jury probei into high
cost of living will be begun in
Detroit, Chicago and New York
the middle of next week, Spe
cial Assistant Attorney General
Anderaon, In charge of the
probe, announced today.
Attorney C.enernl Gregory save
official approval of this plan It Is
highly probable that grand juries
also will be called Iti the immediate
future at Cleveland, Kansas City
and Minneapolis.
Following: the "go ahead' orders
of Gregory, telegrams were dts
patched to (hone points where grand
juries will he mimmoned. ordering
the work to he started at once.
A Oelmar, N. Y., church provide*
ear trumpets for deaf attendants.
HOW WOULD YOU FEEL
If you crawled into a friend's home thru the window,
to keep from disturbing them during the wee hours,
and suddenly heard the clang of a burglar alarm?
Well, That's What Happened
to Miss Rosalind Chalmers—good looking, vivacious,
young woman, who had traveled all the way to
Witherbee's island, in the St. Lawrence.
It's just a bit of the opening action in a clever story
by E. J. Rath—
"ONE-CYLINDER SAM"
Of course you'll read it. starting Monday, if you enjoy
interesting modern novels
The Ilritlsh people's fear of help
inn German propaganda in tb«
I'nited States prevented Kngllsh
writers from saving how dissatis
fied the British people have been
with the politicians who have man
aged our share in the war sinc«
1914.
But He Told the Truth
IJovd Oeorge was the only mem
ber of the government with the
courag to exhibit discontent over
our feeble and vacillating conduct
of the war. Occasionally In parlia
ment and on the platform, he at
tempted to tell the people a little of
the truth, but on these occasions he
was always howled down by mem
bers of his party, and their newspa
pers, as unpatriotic and as giving
comfort to the enemy. The rest did
their best to hide the truth.
The hlde the-trnth tactics In com
mons of smaller politicians wore
shown at the time they were ivi
deavorlng to cover up their blun
ders and Sir Edward Carson left
the government last year.
If Lloyd-George had resigned
with hltn then, the war would hav«
(Continued on page 8)
