THE WEEKLY MESSENGER.
a.I. KI'',S oF .ron0 PR1NTlN .1 USTICE TO ALL b SUBSCRIPTION $1,00 PER ANNUM
VoLUM: xxx. T. MAITINVILLjE, LA.. I)E(EMBE.I . i,9(i. NUMBER 42
cHRISTMAS GIFTS.
For a gift that will give greatest satisfaction to the recipient you
should select some article of
JEWELRY
You will find in our Holiday stock many things that will be
especially pleasing.
We have appropriate gifts to fit any price
you wish to pay. An examination of our
stock will assist you in the preparation of your
list of Christmas purchases.
sen FRANK F. FOTI
J EIW\LER, BRIDG(E STREET, ST. MARTINVILLE
Farmers' Short Course
January 8-19, 1917
---- go
TIh eiglhth annual Farwers'
Shoirt Course in Agriculture at the ai
Louisiana Statc niv-ersity will et
opetn Jlan. $. 1917, and continue I of
thrugh .Jan l19. There will be 9"
eleveni days of lectures and demon- to
strationi by eminent agriculturists
in agronoumy, animal husbandry,
dairying, poultry, horticulture and t)
other subjects of interests to the
farmer; dcimonstrations with im
prov.ed farm machinery and inmple
meCts; special instruction in the
control of animal diseases, such as
hog cholera, charboin, tuberculosis, 1)
and in tick eradication; explana-.
tions and olbservations in road t
bui hling: mIil discussions in whclh h
all Imay take part. ,
The Inivcersity makes no charge ,
of any kind for the instruction.
Thi railrt, companieis imake low
round-trip i'ires for the benefit of ,
those who W ish to attend the Short h
('lurse. I1,ned may he olbtained
in Batonl IIu1Le at reasonable rates. ;
.1 circular containing full in
frmutatioin adl the p)ro(gram in (de
tail will Ie issued early in )Decenm- I
her Write to Professor \V. R. r
1)uds lu, i)Dean. College of Agricul
turi. L. S. ('., for a copy of it.
IMr. . I). (Crawford was lhere on
a slih rt visit the latter part of last
week. ! r. ' rawflord is now on
the irt,ii , iAt a tent show, ainking
.\rkani..a.. ;nll exy ict to bie lhere
Sotlie Bint in .Jaiiuarv.
Sloan's Liniment For Neuralgia Aches
T : gall ' i . it i uraigla it qlliveily t
tI VrItVl I. 'haitln' Lillllmellt, the UI- I
'r-sal s tnll f.r pailn. Etsv to applh
it tquitkly i:jncl trtIea without rul.lb ilnt
alil -ootluth th, =. rte muscle' . - 'hal ttr;
a i,1 ll P Itrt illlo l) rl]','ll,'t. I ;;tll ith 1
Vit: t ; I't 1 10: hItt lll .lit'-; dotl1 t. l[ait
the 4 n t, ar 'log tier pulpy. For -till
t llllli*e ,-. ihl tu i L hrln sl atu1I lt . gIul,  ll
l lshh golo. -p,:lt al til -tram'l it ;1\*">
quithk I li-f. ltha'i n lu, intil llt relpice
lthe paini and itilltwuiuatioi iii iiivctL
t1iit, tbruile,. I limlipj amid othel r iiiiilor
ilJarlri to chilllirel i l ieit a bl oitl today
at your ilruggil, 2c.
We do all kinds of Printing
Mayor's Notice.
O)wing to the dry season~ and tih dan
ger of tirr oni accounit of do y grays ini
yards and sidewalks, Notice iii hereby
given to all that all dry gra-s il yarrd
and sidewalks and all Inrbbilsh be itelnot
ed from pr-utine . by noon on t Iit It llh
of licemiber. All who will fail to ob
serve this graas otlinance by that date. t
will be broughlt before tlhe Mayor's.cou't
to aLswer for this negiect.
This ordinaince will be attictly enforce.
ALBERT IIlENVENU. Mayor.
Dec. 2, 1916.
When Men Inst Obey.
-o-
The law of obedience has neiev:r
been repeale(l. Since the conl
nandulentts denianded that chil
drren sihould honor their parents it i
has beeni incumlbent upoll us to
Obey. Yet there are many adults
who have never learned to obey.
All of us must sooner or later
oey a higher authority. The laws
of health require obetdienice: thle
laws of the state and thei nation
must have recognition. Wh.eni laws
are violated the penalty Imust le
paid. Tile same is true with the
unwrittLa laws of soc'iety, the cuIs
lomis of the neiglhbt rhood and( the
reslpected rights of our fritends and
ne,:ghl lors.
One of the tfirst dutites a chihld I
-,htuld letr' is to **'hinor fattier
and mother" "to obey is better
thlan sal rifice.'" It is it lI'sotn of
self-contr l that iiitmust be Itarined.
\\'ithollt this lesson ouei cian si l
dIm i idaºit hiiimsilf to iinature, anld
to the laws of the latnd.
SItdiencc is far mnor, important
to (ontn.timent and11 happiniers than
Miloit lpeople believe. It is essen
tial to the harmony of progre-ssive.
living and fortunate are those that
learn this.
life's pathway shows tuany fail
ores for latek ot oldieice. lThose
who havlle never learned to resipect
authority i ca'l nlever exl'cet to, ;I..
just themselves to ways of the
(wor'ld. S'ooner or later this lesson
must Il, I-arned. And tlhe sunter
thie l.itter for the individual.
Texas Farm and Itacllh.
For Reut ~li are-.s of land in ('nl- d
Sac, two cabiun. cl lb etc. L. li: uIiven
INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS
Sundulvy niight th,' newly elected
otlicetrs of the Knights of Colum
bus w°ere installed by l)istri't l)e
puty Johnii M. lPrescott and State
Deputy Charh I ). Mouton.
In the evening the miemlbers ga
thlieretd at the (Club, h)louse a lis
tened 'to splendid addresses deli
vered by the visiting officers.
After the ceremno ny a splendid
suppcr was served to the umembers
aiid their guests.
All prtcent had a most agreeable
time.
IOU SHOULD FEEiL 100 pc TO-DAY
Yii aIunt inert tihe t3a. 's w.it ehter
fully fee iigg Iiliour. Ituil heatdache.
rtoiedl toigut,, lad Ibreath are uigni that
iilelrat e r liverIir i over worked or loaf
iRg. Ii eitlhier 'aie v, Ineeil Peo-Lho-lax.
Nitiere-". i a er regulator. I,-.i ed citra
th,.May apphl,. By -timlatlt:g ith' tiw
of biIle, tPIo-l0-.ax mak,.+ work teasier
fr your litel, oai v Its 1111 lixalivy
qulality rli t-cui the tupllll Itie- that rlig
tiit initEstin's. A' all , rtiggittte . h .
'lhe latter part of hlst week the
field l irt's did lots of dlanage. tlhe
iproperty of iMrs. Au uist, Le'Iouxl
was firnd I y at .park fromn a Io<.i
Ilmot i' and Imurn.ed thie pla -turie amI
L1 holos, that wVai caught in a ',r
inr by the lbms: th, lit ', wI nl toI
1r. iFraik ( irtigs file anIti lIt~r
,d 5,\vrtl ,i eg's. The, s'tail we 'k
li' r set (i th li' ('ypre..s .lanld or,,
Ierntd sevettal Iuieliers on th,
ui ,tc llpied ,r erti n y t f ,udi , .l,,s.
IBeaux, te this jdie ivti.r huihl
dineg was hesm rty d. .1, est of tilsi
tires ate due ttt cartl'e I nei.
STOP THAT COUGH
.1 hack:nig r,,ugh weakene the wltle I
yVstmlll. dIl'IiS1 5ollur tlintgv alld getn
-tor'e if Ii glecttl; telllr thruLat 1" law.
Voeur chlit it'ch- it l0l ,ti ft ll eCre all
over. le lieve that chlt at 3 ire wilth
Dr. Kiig'. New hi coetry. T'h, ,oth
lag pi)eI leai-amtis i+ai th+e II rita' I
in lll,,lltl ll"'+,llla'l th, abu- ll l i. 1  ad)tl" i -ll]l
ative qualiti-s kill the germi oitt ,.,; ,
up 5oui ttt, I 'it het a ctl lintIge.
lGet fir. Kiig'- New 1i1cc,,ely to-day at
y ur druggi--t, . c.
--T'lhe' High Sch,,l basket ball
tehrli playd lthe New lberia High
Schliol leani last Saturdaiy and
i, , ,.+ ',ted. The score wiS New'
u I '\c ia ·it, St. Martinville .143.
r
ý' LOPYR MT
PRESENTS FOR ALL
Practical gift that will make glad the hearts
of all. Our display will soon be made of all
kinds of rich, beautiful, dependable Holiday
furnishing larger and more varied than
ever before, at popular prices. We extend
you a cordial invitation to look over our stock
DU-l HAMP HARDWARE
COMPANY
< All Grades of
TYPEWIRITING PAPER
Cut any size desired at this office
SOUTHERN PACIFIC LINES
TO THE
WEST
The Most Romantic Railroad Journey in America
A th! ,u anId wonders to enjoy thru open windows; automatic
Se!,ctric saf,.ty Si'nal : ()il Burning Locomottives; No (tl
de, , N I )ut; Thru N)inning and Obs)lervation Cars.
StI, p , aI. :" ta r the marvelous auto side trip over the
Al'.\( Ii ' T!RAIL of Arizona. en route to or from CALI
t )I NI A. \\rit fotr .\l'Apc he Trail Bo,,,k.
SI SEI' IM,3ITEI)' -No) EXTRA FARE
From N,.w 0)rl,,ans Daily II A. M.
I(uickest Time: to Sain Francisco
Houston, San Antonio, El Paso, Tucson, Los
Angeles, San Francisco
UNXECELLII) I)INI N(NIN CAR SERVICE
Fo.e'!.lrfot'n .tini. ak IIany Syuthern Pacific Agent, or write
\\. II ..TAKEi bM, .108. HELLEN,
h1)1. -. :l b;.I . .gor Ageut. (in.*ral '&MaUngr Agent
I.hi IIK,' l S.. LA. NEW ORILEANS. LA.
__, _______ aWhen you visielt New Orleaqs/stop at
Laizaire Bienvenu THE INN HOTEL
Carondelet and Perdido street
FIRE NEW ORLEANS, LA.
wUL ,,sN ,. DaN,,CO ,U,. Proprietor.
INSURANCE AGENT VCO KN N. c Y.u.r
COOD jNPANIES EUROPW PLI, Rates $i,00 ad u,
"4 Latest Improvements.
-T. TIEI7E I. . .C.NTRALLY LOATE&
Sits fornPerly ocupied by DBashaud Hetel
