THE COLFAX CHRONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 1909
H Democratic journal. devotcd to Local and tcncral News, Literature, Science, Rgriculturt, Etc.
VOL. LXI COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1916 NUMBER 8
/-here T-ouy It
J. W. Duncan GO., Ltd. DIXIE r far d P
Deales iPeoples' Cash Store x m.0. ML OA.
LIMITED Xmas 5"a MUDO er.
General Merclandise Toys wr ao t eve Sied Iao
Everything Specialty Get Some of It in Your Eye
For the Home lAgency for Samoset and TRIANGLE PICTURES
Telephone 4 F ome Jacobs Candies Wednesdays and Saturdays
PATHE PICTURES
W E DELIVER Prices from 10c to $8.50 Mondays and Fridays
J. Q. LONG COLFAX, LOUISIANA L. M. GOINS
The Town That Within a Decade Has Sprung From a Remote River Landing to City That Would Put to Riot Sir Thomas More'sat
Dealer in Fondest and Mnst (herished Expectations of Utopian Phenomenalism. !(
G E N E R A L ANENT the railway, the good roads era, the advent of the automobile and progressivism in i/amonds
Merchandise A general, ours was one of the many Central Louisiana towns lying nestled within the tawny e
arms of the pine belt in awkard contentment. But today! Lo, and t e very atmosphere in and
around Colfax, Grant parish and Central Louisiana seems alive and alert, coping with each new
free Deilirru QualltU Teis6 venture, fighting its way to the foremost rank, until now we are being swept along the rapid The Ideal Christmas Gift
current of civic pride and commercial activity. Today Colfax ranks among the best towns in the
state, population to the contrary notwithstanding. The advancement is phenomenal - the old
Sanitary Pressing "down-in-the-rut" tactics have long since passed into the annals of the history of "the things E. Store L
that were," and the more matter-of-fact basis assumed, until with this Christmas, nineteen-six- nomy Co.
Shop teen, we find ourselves in the midst of happiness and prosperity, and with still brighter stars il- E. S. MURRELL
H. 0. rARALDO, Propr. luminating the commercial horizon of the ensuing year. We can celebrate more heartily this Pro.pr
. R , Pror. Yuletide than in many past. Our wish is for you a Merry Xmas and a Happy New Year.
Cleaning
Repairing Altering Telephone No. 20
Steam Pressing J. A. GALLIAN, State Agent for the Warren Piano
W E CALL FOR and DELIVER
Telephone 84 We take old Pianos in exchange Write me at COLFAX, LA. Groceries that are Better
w . T. LINDER DIXlI rinllam1 J. C. Killingsworth Economy Store Co. J. W. DuDoan Go. LtW.
Dealer in Xmas MEATS E. S. MURRELL Dealers I.
Fresh Toys of all kinds (i~n6a] M6rc6andlse
Meats FRESH Telephone No. 20
i Agency for Samoset and IIREAD
Bicycle-Delivery Jacobs Candies That's All Telephone 4
TELEPHONE 125 Prices from 10c to $8.50 TELEPHONE NO 102 Groceries that are Better W E DELIVER
Colfax-Pineville Road Scored
Interested Citizens Prevail on Manager Clarkson to Go
Over the North Side Route and Turn on the
Limelight of Publicity
_ Editor H. G. Goodwyn of The
Chronicle, being on the scent for
news items, and also in his ca
pacity as secretary of the Grant
Parish Highway association.
took the train for Alexandria
last Saturday night, in or(er to
be on hand Sr, day morning to
meet Mr. J. I). Clarkson, inana
ger of the Jefferson Hirghway
association, who was billed to be
at the Bentley hotel that morn
ing.
Hiring a jitney bus Sunday
we mana.ed to overhaul Mr. T.
W. Barre:t, tpolice jurrr of the!
Pinevil!e %. ard, and tht-n over
the teklphne gi.t in tkuch with
Dr. L. E. Lytton, police juror
of Rigolette ward. After a has
ty conversation with friends of
the Pineville-Colfax route, a du
plicate document was gotten up,
headed "Petitrin. Protest and
Notice (f Cuntest." sEttirg forth
the reasons whey the north side
of Red river should be chosen in
preferei:ce to the Boyce route,
protesting aga iist the consider
ation of the Boyee c'aims, and
giving nctice of contesting these
claims as altogether unworthy of
prevailing against the north side
of the river as the route for the
highway. This document was
signed by 25 or 30 Pineville and
Rigolette citizens.
A little after ten o'clock Mr.
Clarkson was found at the Bent
ley, surrounded by about a doz
en IBoice boosters, and immed
iately a discussion of the situa
tion was entered into. Mr. Clark
son was informed of the appoint
ment the steering committee at'
Colfax to inform him of the de
sire of the citizens of Grant par-!
ish to have him log and score the'
Colfax-Pineville rouse. At once
the question arose as to wv.hen;
the scoring could be d&ne, all of
Mr. Clarkson's time being ar
ranged for an itinerary of two
weeks, with only a few hours
remaining; of Saturday, Dec. 9,
after three p. m., at which time
he will return from his trip to
Bunkie, Melville, Marksville, etc.
The proposition to score the
Pineville-Colfax route immed
iately was first made as a sort of
banter from some of the Boyce
crowd. Mr. Clarkson showing a
disposition to take the proposal
seriously, the Colfax representa
tive told the Pineville people if
the proposition suited them to
start at one o'clock in the after
noon, he would guarantee to
have a Colfax delegation on the
ground ready to start, or at least
to meet the official car at Camp
Stafford.
And so, the agreement was
made to start at one o'clock.
The arrangement was telephon
ed to Colfax and a number of
citizens responded to the call.
Capt. C. H. Teal, and others
were assembled together by go
ing into the churches and pulling
them away from the 11 o'clock
services. When the hour of one
arrived three Colfax cars were
at the Bentley ready to join the
official scoring party, namely, Mr.
J. H. McNeely's car, who had
with him Capt. C. H. Teal, As
sessor J. M. Straughan and Mr.
McNeely's three scns, Ivy, How
ard and Virgil; the second car
contained Mr. L. B. Gay and his
family, while the third carried
Mr. A. M. LeSage and family
and one other passenger. These
parties made the Colfax-Alexan
dria trip, via Bagdad and Pine
ville, in about one hour and fif
teen minutes, and were ready to
start on the home trip in a little
less than two hours from the
time they were telephoned that
the "race was on."
Three Boyce cars containg
prominent citizens ,made the
trip to Colfax, via Pineville,
among them being Messrs. Bak
er, Joyner, Grissom, Smith and
others.
Other Colfax cars that met the
party at Camp Stafford were
owned by W. A. Brownlee, J. T.
McMurry, L H. Johnston, C. A.
LeSage, Earl Hatfield and others
and all of whom carried from
three to five passengers. The
procession was joined by eight
or ten cars from Tioga; also four
or five additional Colfax cars fell
in line as the procession neared
the town.
Mr. Clarkson remarked that it
was a most credible showing to
be jumped up with less than two
hours notice. It was an eye
opener to the Boyce contingent,
and for the next twelve of fifteen
hours we heard many frantic
calls and exhortations to their
friends to get out every car in
town and in all the country con
tiguous. And with all their fuss
-and five days advance notice
they only had 16 cars in line as
they departed from Boyce about
9:30 next morning.
Colfax has about sixty auto
mobiles, and if we had been giv
en a day's notice instead of a
scant two hours, the interest
here being so keen, we would
have had at least forty of them
in line.
The point of starting was at
the city hall in Alexandria at the
front entrance of the Bentley
hotel. In the official car were
J. D. Clarkson, T. W. Barrett,
Dr. L. E. Litton and T. C. Bush,
the latter being a Boyce booster.
This party occupied the leading
car until the Grant parish line
was reached, when Mr. Barrett
Couissed on ast page.
Get-Together Highway Plans
Grant Parish Citizens Urged to Attend Automobile Pa
rade in Pineville and Alexandria on Monday
Afternoon, December 11
At the request of Messrs. J.
T. Ball, Mayor of Pineville, and
T. W. Barrett, police juror of the
Pineville ward of Rapides parish,
a meeting of the Grant Parish Jef
ferson Highway Association was
convened in the Brinker Hotel
lobby at 7:30 p. m., Wednesday,
Dec. 6, 1916, with about fifty
persons present.
Capt. C. H. Teal, chairman,
called the meeting to order, and
H. G. Goodwyn, secretary, was
requested to read the proceed
ings of a meeting held in Pine
ville Tuesday, Dec. 5. at which a
highway association was affect
ed for the purpose of securing
the building of the Jefferson
I Highway through Pineville, Ti
oga, Bagdad and Colfax, and an
even hundred citizens, headed
t by the mayor and councilmen,
a were enrolled. The meeting pass.
r ed resolutions commendatory of
Hon. T. W. Barrett and Dr. L.
E. Lytton for their efforts to se
cure the highway for the north
side of Red river.
The Pineville meeting also
C with enthusiasm and unanimity
t voted to order a thousand but
tons for the advocates of the
north side, and called for a meet
ing of the representative citizens
of the territory concerned to be
held at the Louisiana College
chapel in Pineville next Monday,
Dec. 11, at 7:34p. m.
Preceding the night meeting,
in the afternoon at three o'clock,
it is proposed to organize an au
tomobile parade through the
streets of Pineville, and Alexan.
dria.
Mr. Barrett and Mayor Ball of
pineville, who were present, ex
plained that the citizens of Col
fax and Montgomery, Aloha and
Bagdad, and all. other points
along the route, were earnestly
invited to participate in the pa
rade, and assured any all who
come and remain over to attend
the night meeting that they will
be cared for without expense
to themselves. The Ladies' Aux
illiary and the Civic League of
Colfax are also invited, and they
will receive the care and atten
tion of the Pineville ladis, who
have agreed to act as hors. 
the occasion.
" Mr. John Randolph heartA
endorsed the propostom, ad
bmiied as lt pp.
