OHIO OTATE
UNIVERSITY
DEC 1 21316
LIBRARY
I
INDEPENDENT
NONPARTISAN
P
l"fw- N
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
.'
Vol. IV. No. 34
CINCINNATI, OHIO, DECEMBER 9, 1916
One Dollar a Year
v e&zBsmw x "v w
1
i
i
Hirelings Fight For Kroger
An Automobile Load of Imported Thugs, Destroy the Union Banners and Beat Up the Union
Men Who Carried Them. .No Relief From Director Friedlander, Who Says "That
He Does Not Know Anything About lt.9 Kroger Signed With the Union In
St. Louis, But Not In Cincinnati.
After requesting a conference with
representatives of the Teamsters' Union,
B. H. Kroger absolutely refused to have
anything to ilo with tliem or any other
union.
John Devering national organizer,
and James Boyle, president Teamsters'
District Council, called upon Mr. Kro
ger at that gentleman's invitation, and
Mr. Kroger informed them he would
not employ any one from that union or
anv other union, and he intended to
fight if he had to break up every union
in Cincinnati or close up his stores. Tic
also said that he intended to go through
witli tins light it he had to use violence.
The committee reminded him that he
had signed an agreement with the team
sters in St. Louis, Mo., but he denied
it until they showed him his contract,
signed by himself, and then he said :
"But I don't have to do it here; I'm too
strong."
When Mr. Kroger asked for a con
ference he requested that the committee
j'ct "the rock-bottom prices" for which
the union would work: in other words,
what is the lowest amount that you will
slave for?
Ziitt&rPttZfi
An order was issued from the Inter
national headquarters that all union
teamsters must refuse to haul any goods
to or from any of Krogcr's stores, and
this has been carried out to the letter
In a few days the freight handlers will
also refuse to touch any of Krogcr's
shipments.
Kroger Allies Show Violence.
Armed thugs have been riding around
Cincinnati ill an automobile driven by
one of Krogcr's employes, and wher
ever they found a union man carrying
a banner they jumped out and beat him
up. This has been going on for some
time and has been reported to the police
repeatedly, but they have not made an
arrest, but whenever a union man gets
into a fight he is yanked off to jail.
Know Nothing Frictllanilcr.
When Dan Bauer said that one thou
sand dollars a year was enough for
Friedlander, he said a mouthful, judg
ing from Friedlander's own statement
"That he does not know" on almost
every issue.
A committee of teamsters called upon
him and told him of the number of as
saults made upon their members and
asked for the same protection that he
gives to Kroger, but Mr. Friedlander
said "that he did not know anything
about it."
Friedlander did not know that the
police were beating up strikers in the
interest of the National Metal Trades
Association, of which he is a member.
He did not know that Sam Hirsch had
a handbook. He did not know that the
police give the third degree, that they
assaulted and beat up prisoners without
cause, in order to make them confess,
notwithstanding that almost everybody
else in Cincinnati can tell you of some
one that had been treated that way.
With the many other things that "he
don't know," we believe, like Dan Bauer,
that a thousand a year is too much for
him.
The Difference.
When the union men were arrested
for destroying Kroner's property, they
were taken to headquarters and third
degreed until one of them in self
protection, was forced to confess in or
der to get awav from the brutes who
were beating him.
But when Krogcr's hired thugs have
gone all over Cincinnati, and not only
destroyed the signs which arc the prop
erty of the union, but assaulted the men
who carried them, Friedlander's police
have not made an arrest.
Union labor should assert its rights
and hold the Republican machine re
sponsible for the unfair actions of
Friedlander, and resent the same by
voting against any man that they run
for Mayor unless this machine gives
them a square deal immediately
m ; yz Jmt
?m
MICHAEL
Business Agent of the Amalgamated
Nos. 506
Michael Schuld is one of the hardest working members of the Central Labor
Council. lie was the first one to organize the butchers in Cincinnati, and has
secured for the slaughter-house butchers an increase of one dollar per week
and cut the working hours down three hours a week. Schuld agitated the Sunday
closing of butcher shops and has succeeded beond his expectations, as there are
only sixty out of fourteen hundred shops who have refused to close.
Schuld is a great assistance to the labor movement, as he is the master of
five languages and is always willing and anxious to do what he can for the
cause. He has thousands of friends and is one of the most popular members of
the Central Labor Council, and under his direction the Meat Cutters are getting
stronger every day.
ELECTRICIANS TO EAT
Electrical Workers' Union Xo. 212
will give a banquet next Saturday night
at Hock's Hall, Twelfth and Walnut, in
honor of the twenty-fifth anniversary of
the .International Brotherhood of Elec
trical Workers.
IUjACKKMITIIS ItAiSK WAUKS.
Brockton, Mass. The State board of
conciliation and arbitration has award
ed blacksmiths wage increases as fol
lows: Forge men, from $19 to $20 a
week: floor men, from $10 to $18 a
week. These workers were on strike for
twrf months and the matter was finally
submitted to the State board.
IIHXIOFITS VOll IX.HTHKI.
St. Paul, Minn. During the period of
two vcars and nine months ending Oct
1 last there were 450 fatal accidents and
:m,470 non-fatal accidents reported to
the State department of labor. Of these,
108 of the former and n;i,498 of the lat
ter came under the State compensation
law and were paid benefits to the amount
of $98:1,418.00.
SCHULD
Meat Cutters anil Untclicr Workers,
and 232.
USE THE LABEL
Those union men who arc always
shouting to patronize the shoe Iabelor
the printers' label ought to practice wiiat
they preach and when they give a ban
quet they should give it in a restaurant
or cafe 'that has the union card.
iiorits itF,rcioi ix iow.i.
Sioux Citj', Iowa. Dyers, cleaners
and presscrs suspended work to enforce
recognition of their union and to reduce
hours from III and IS to nine. After a
24-hour strike the emplpers granted all
demands.
Hoisting engineers in this city have
organized a union.
l S. XAVV YAltl) W1XS.
Washington. The navy department
has rejected the bid of the Cramp Ship
building company fbr two submarines
and awarded the contract to the govern
ment navy yard, at Marc Island, the
Cramp bid was $1,195,000, and the navy
yard bid was $908,105.
The Building Trades Council
Will Co-Operate With the City Club to Secure a Home
Rule Charter For Cincinnati. Under the Law, Con
vict Labor Can Put Up a Building But It Cannot
Make Brooms to Sell to the Public.
The meeting of the Building Trades
Council was called to order by President
Jos. A. Cullen.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
A communication from the City Club
requesting that a committee be appointed
from the Council to confer with them
on the advisability of securing a home
rule charter for the city of Cincinnati
was received. Upon motion, the Council
adopted a resolution accepting the invi
tation and instructing the president to
Wppint -?,;ommjtyee,(joffiye. r .j,.
1 he minutes ol the Hoard ol uusincss.
.Agents were read and concurred in.
The business agent's report for two
week was read and approved.
President Cullen reported on his visit
to Columbus, with a committee, to ap
pear before the State Hoard of Admin-
WARRANTS TO BE ISSUED
For Arrest of Thirty-Seven Butchers
Who Kept Open Sunday.
Business Agent Michael Schuld of the
Butchers union announced last 1 hurs
day evening at a meeting of the Meat
Cutters' Union Local 500, Brighton Hall,
that he would swear out 117 warrants to
day for the arrest of butchers who kept
open last Sundaj.
A conference between union officials
and William Ohlbauser and Jacob Mil
ler, who represent the Butcher and Gro
cers League, was held at the meeting,
but an argreement as to the Sunda
closing law could not be reached.
Xominations of candidates for the an
nual election also took place at the meet
inir of the union.
Thoc nominated were: President,
Jacob Manilla : vice-president, William
Summers and 11. F Fnneking: record
ing secretary G. 11. lleutel and Henry
Dindorf : treasurer, George Vengert
and Christian W'ehring; financial secre
tarj, Joseph liackherms and J. Gerrg:
sergeaut-at-arms, John Koenig and John
Belile : sentinel, Leo Bloom and Edward
Jcnewine; trustees, Harry Kehl, John
Geis, John Marmeyer, William Atkins,
Percy Haller and I "rank Fahe, and dele
gates to Central Labor Council, Michael
Schuld, John Succetta and Joseph
Xeilen.
MlliWAUKKK IIOl'SIX(J I'HOHLKM
Milwaukee. This city's bousing fa
cilities have been survejed by the mu
nicipal health department and it is found
that ftillv 50, per cent of the problem is
due to overcrowded conditions. Out of
a,:!S4 deaths occurring from contagious
diseases, including typhoid fever and
tuberculosis, during the five years from
1911 to 1915 inclusive, 20.5 per cent oc
curred in districts having special hous
ing problems. More than 21 per centof
the deaths of children under 5 during
1915 occurred in these bad bousing dis
tricts. It is stated that 44 per cent of
bad housing conditions exist because
there are no laws by which they can be
eliminated.
IMI'K WOUKKHS 11A1SH WAC8KS.
St. Louis, Mo. After a week's strike
250 organized stcamfitters' helpers rais
ed wages 50 cents a day.
istration and their fruitless efforts to
get the board to agree to pay the union
scale of wages. Brother Cullen stated
that the president of the board explain
ed to them that the superintendents of
the various institutions fix the salaries
of those emploxed; and when he asked
about convicts doing painting and plumb
ing of public buildings, the president re
plied that some time ago the labor un
ions had a law passed forbidding con
victs from manufacturing any articje
that is to be sold in the open market in
compctitionjvvith free labor, but the law
also "includes a""tlausetliaTth'eT:onvicts
can make all goods that they wear or
use, and building and repairing of houses
thej lie in, which covers the case.
All trades reported business brisk.
There being no further business the
meeting adjourned.
MAIMMTV MKX I'LKAD.
Columbus, Ohio. As a result of the
election of former Governor James M.
Cox, private liability companies in this
State are on their knees. Two years ago
Governor Cox was defeated for re
election after he had jammed through
the legislature a workmen's compensa
tion law. During the past two years the
law has been weakened so that that
private companies are now writing in
surance. In the last campaign this is
sue was pushed to the fore by organized
labor and Cox promised that he would
drive the companies out of the State if
re-elected.
The companies are fearful of this
threat and it is now claimed that they
are willing to retire voluntarily if no
legislation is passed. They realize that
ouster laws would affect them in other
States.
DKMAXI) FOOD KMIIAHGO.
Baltimore. The A. F. of L. Conven
tion last week, voted unanimously to de
mand an embargo upon shipments of
wheat and other breadstuffs. The re
port of the federal department of agri
culture was quoted to show, that the
wheat crop is barely sufficient for our
own people the coming jear, and that
present conditions "are a menace to the
physical and social well being of the
nation." Pres:dcut Wilson and Congress
are urged to place an embargo in har
mony with international law.
A resolution demanding a probe by
the department of justice into the in
creased cost of print paper, which has
been doubled and in some case trebled,
within the last year, was also adopted.
MKlKOAh MAX TALKS 1'LAIX.
Philadelphia. At a meeting of doc
tors in this city, Dr. Charles A. E. Cod
man, president of the State Medical So
ciety, stated that for the first time in
history the medical profession will be
represented at the State capital in a
united body when, the next legislature
convenes to" urge longer limits of attend
ance and higher fees in workmen's com
pensation cases.
"We know what we want, what we
are going to ask for, and wc arc going
to get it," he said.
If a trade unionist indulged in this
plain talk ponderous editorials wouldbc
written on "the futility of intimidation
and coercion."
ft
:-K;e?
it ' . -rx- -,. ".m
31U1
