85
SPEAKING. OF RELIGIOUS PRHUDICE-'rlnti
Defcnve League, has icnt Co Col. Callahan of the K. of C. so-called Committee on Heligioui Prejudice.
ff' swVjtds kar wmti iWir rtfws irrjaslke If meat iiwnu fiLWtWaa W crisis bkmaw aS mUctk) b Ckicarw,
IX, KivtrkJI, Mam., aai eUewW. TV s's tW ami tm. i4utmWr skia to ksciU iWir mWn to ri4 tU crimi!
CO ,
is n
ThU Is Number 294
NACE
Tae TallH, CtUi lyWtTM. aal CatUtc Gtisea. 4 Bat a sa:i trUracH ( rtltfiMi prtiaixt art to Wt Imi4 iihi Ut
mi tkaa 15.000,000 M-Ksua CatWic AaMvicaa cites.
4If prejudice exists imonj; loyal American it if because of the papal political activity, and opposition to our OR
GANIC LAW. To settle the Question ai to whether Rome is in politics and it opposing connitutionat puarantees
Avrars, MImiiH
or , lata
arm bum arks ot democracy, the tree I rest Defense 1-carue it urnnir the investjration demanded
by the
Lindbergh Resolutions. WILL COI CALLAHAN JOIN IN THIS DEMAND?
JLnEFJSS
THIS NATION CANNOT LONG KXDURK HALF PAPAL AND HALF FRKH. Hon. . I. Shetpani in letter to Col. P. . Callahan
LEAGUE ADDRESSES COL P. R C ALLAH AM
Letter Urges Head of So-called Religious Prejudice Committee of Knights of Columbus to
Join With Defense League in Demanding Passage of the Lindbergh Resolution
Free Press Defense League Points Out to Colonel Callahan
That to Join VIth Them In Demand for Investigation of
Political Romanism May Remove Cause of So-called
Religious Prejudice Which Causes Him and His Col
leagues So Much Alarm and Anxiety
IIIE following letter was maileJ to Col. I he whole hoi y of cle torn, it manages by throats
Callahan, head of the Knight of Colum
bus so-called Comm-'ttoe on Religious
Prejudice, on November 25, IDlfi.'bv lion.
J. I. Sheppard, Secretary of the Free Press IV
ft'cso League:
NovcmW 2., 131 fi.
Col. P. IT. Callahan.
Chairman Committee on Religious Prejudice,
Louisville, Kentucky.
My dear Mr. Callahan:
l'.y roto of the Hoard of Directors of the Free
Press Defense League, at a session held in this
intimidation, blackmail, and ty coercion of the
press, to secure an undue proportion of the elect
ive and appointive offices throughout the coun
try, and these offices when filled with Roman
Catholics are uod to further the plan of making
America dominantly Roman Catholic.
"VI In tarrying out the conspiracy to bring
the Cnitcnl Slates of America under the complete
nomination of the pope of Tome, the Roman
Catholic hioranhy, aided by the Roman Cath
olic politicians and the Roman Catholic pres, ha
inspired tlte I.'onian Catholic laity to resort to
city November 2Jth, 131C, I am instructed to threat, to mtimi.Iation, to the boycott, to as
eddross you as Chairman of the Committee on "ult "n( to riot murder.
Religious Prejudice of the Knights of Columbus, ''VII The Koman Catholic hierarchy is now
seeking your co-operation in securing the adop- and has been for more than a year last past, ac
tion of House Joint Resolution No. 5i'l, intro- tivelv engaged within the territorr of the United
dueed by Congressman C. A. Lindbergh of Minnc
aota. July 1.1th, 191 C.
The Free Press Defense league is an organi
zation whose primary purpose is to do what it
can to protect and preserve, inviolate, certain rights
indispensable to liberty which arc granted by thn
Constitution of the United State.
States of America in fomenting and inciting
revolution in the Republic of Mexico and at
tempting to bring about a state of war between
the Republic of Mexico and the United State
of America."
This letter is to enlist your co-operation in
securing tho adoption of that resolution. I have
already shown t hat it purpose is right in line
with what votir committee is trving to do and
Tells Prejudice Expert Where Trouble Lies
I,., t
. . ... vour high txisition in the counsels of the church
having the purixise in view of removing prejudice ...... ., ...
against the Roman Catholic church. As we view
it, there is no prejudice among tho people against
the Roman Catholic religion, for all recognize the
right of every man and woman under the Consti-
I might easily turn the fcale in favor of Sis passage
if your upKrt could be enlisted.
Shows Callahan Why He Should Co-Operate
Von should be as deeply interested as we are
tution of the United States, to worship Cod asi having these grave charges investigated. Any
lie or she chooses. The ill feeling you take ex- j evasion of the issue by ignoring or misreprcscnt
ceiition to among the people of our country isi P charges is in itself a confession of guilt,
caused by tho pernicious activity of the Roman
Catholic hierarchy in attempting to substitute the
papal theory of government for our free democ
racy. When the cause is removed, prejudice will t
disappear. Rut it needa to be distinctly under
stood that this nation cannot long endure, half
papal, and half free. Either the autocratic sys
tem you represent must be defeated or free gov
ernment will perish from the earth.
The Free Press iVfensc league is in a posi
tion to aid you in removing religious prejudice
by removing the cause therefor and it desires to
do so. In the resolution introduced by Mr. Lind
bergh, II. J. R. No. 261, we make the following'
charges against the papal system of which you !
arc a most distinguished advocate and exponent:
"I The pope of Rome is a foreign sover
eign, claiming allegiance in temporal as well as
spiritual matters throughout the world.
"II The papal system of which the pope is the
bead is opposed to, and seeks to destroy our freej
institutions, to-wit:
1 Our public schools,
2 The free press,
3 The right of free speech and public as
sembly, 4 The right of freedom of thought in mat
ters of conscience,
6 The principle of separation of church'and
state.
"III The papal system in America which con
sists of the Roman Catholic cardinals, bishops,
priests, the Jesuits, Knights of Columbus, Feder
ation of Catholic Socie'W u Ancient Order of
Hibernians, and other Roman Catholic societies
together with the Roman Catholic press, seeks to
substitute for our democratic system of govern
ment, the' monarchal or papal system.
"IV The Roman Catholie laity in the United
States of America, is taught, influenced, and
commanded, by those in authority, to yield im
plicit obedience to the teachings of the popes of
Homeland to blindly obey all their orders and
decrees, even though said orders and decrees con
flict with the constitution and the laws of the
United States of America.
"V The Roman Catholic organisation in
America is perniciously active in politics, V and
although having but few rotes as compared with
and you and your committee cannot afford to deny
cTScTxTxIxTxixIx xT5
ffi
m i
I
CD f
H' 11
our rejuet for your cooperation with us in
reaching a prompt and impartial invettigation.
A an intelligent man, you know that if thee
t barges are true, then thoo responsible for this
condition are guilty of treason against the nation
and against the welfare of mankind.
Protestant Bodies Would Resent Indictment
You also know that if the charges made by
the Fre Prea Defense league are true, such an
indictment can le brought agtint only one or
ganisation u the United States. This is the
Roman Catholie hierarchy. No Protestant re
ligious organization would rest for a single mo
ment under such an indictment. No other organ
ization or association of men except the Roman
Catholic hierarchy has ever lcen charged with
making an attack (mMhe free public school sys
tem of this country, no other organization is
charged with conspiring to place an autocratic
censorship upon the press; no other organization
except the Roman Catholic hierarchy objects to
freedom of speech and assembly. When speak
ers employed by your committee have appeared
in leading cities to plead the cause which you
represent, no mobs have formed to prevent yon,
full and free presentation of your ideas; no stones
or bficks have lccn thrown; no iSurch windows
broken ; no eftigics burned ; no speaker has been
threatened, insulted, beaten or murdered. No
citizen who has attended any of your meetings or
who rented a hall for holding such meetings has
been boycotted. No representative of tho press
has been intimidated by threats because he has
treated you fairly and has published voluminous
reports of your proceedings. As set forth in our
charges, only Romanists are accused of those
things.
Petitions are being signed by thousands of
citizens in every part of the country, and we will
ask Congress at tho opening of its next session in
December to pass the Lindlergh Resolution.
Owing to the prominence which your position as
Reminds Representative of Papal System That Romanism
In America Stands Charged With Being Enemy of Free
Institutions, . Constitutional Guarantees, etc., and Re
asserts That No Mobs Have Sought to Hinder KIs
Committee's Speaking Campaigns In Any City
Oice gie you, I have no doubt that your ad
vocacy of t he pawige of the Resolution, if added
to the arguments we shall le able to present, will
le amply suflicicnt to secure the desired action
by congress immediately.
Outlines Co Operative Campaign
When we get the resolution adopted, then
President f the t'oinmis'ion on Religions Preju
dice of the Knights of Columbia, which apears
on this page of Tin: MivatT, is xlnl in its
significance. The Icgue, as its name implies,
was formed for tho purpose of defense aciin't
tho malignant attacks of thoe who Kik to de
stroy our vital constitutional rights.
It oocaiona!lv happens that a vigorous of-
i f ...... . ;., ....v. t iT. ........ I ... I., ja.ii.iii 19
em h partv to the controversy can go into the mat- .. . , , .. , , ,. . , ,. ;
tcr fullv and furnish witnesses to be examined and
cnngres July 1.1th, lOlfi, the Free Press iKfense
cross-examine.!. With the results of such an in-; ln-rue assumed the offensive and struck the pa-
xestigation before them, the people of the United pal svstem a staggering blow.
States are fully competent to decide what is the' This off-nsive will be pushed vigorously. The
true cause of the prejudice which disturbs vou. and , first ",,no nf,or introduction of the Resolution
Lie H fit! iimnf; 11 ",K",k nmr ' mi ll puik-
1 ifir n ii iML'rf.miiii. ilia iiim1!, nil in i 1 k
to abate that prejudice through the reasona
common sense process of removing the cause. If
the evidence proves the charges untrue, the jeo
ple can be trusted to put the Free Pre-s Defense
ICague out ot business.
As a measure, therefore, of allaying religious
prejudice and hence in complete harmony with
the avowed aims and purposes of your commit
tee, 1 ask you to apjicar with Judge Nations, our
rcprescntathc at Washington, loforo the Com
mittee on Rules of the House of Representative
at a date to l arranged, and that you join with
him in advocating a favorable report by that
committee to the entire House recommending the
immediate adoption of the Lindbergh Resolution.
Assuring you personally of my most distin
guished regard, Sincerely yours,
J. I. Surrr.titn,
Secretary Free Tress Defense Iigue.
j J IS-AN"
iwronuL comment
The letter from tho Secretary of Uie Free
Chairman of the Committee on Religious Preju-J Tress Defense League to Col. P. If. Callahan.
AMOTIHIEE3 ELECTION
I OUR days after the general election on Nov. 7, another
election was held in the citv of St. Louis to determine
whether G,000 public school pupils should continue to
attend sehool in portable houses, whether 1,000 pupils
in 15 soliools should be in school but half of each day,
whether there should still be boys and girls attending
three high schools in excess of their seating capacity, whether 237
rooms of the city schools were to be crowded with from one to four-
iue went through. Your old line grafter knew nothing about pub
lic plundering, compared with his compatriot of tho cultured air and
tliCtUnctuoua voice. In justice, though, it ought to lie borne in mind
that school expenditures must keep mounting ever higher and higher;
since owing to the weakening of the marriage bond by divorces whilo
you wait, the school is being constantly called upon to supply the
place of the home."
The allusion to "bnbies trotted out for the school election" has
reference to the fact that the 00,000 school children f St. Ixuis were
teen more pupils than there were seata for them, whether 8,000 five- the hardest workers for the bonds which were of such consequence
ear-old pupils would have to be sent home; or, whether the great
city of St. Ijouis would vote bonds to secure the three million dollars
needed to buy the sites, erect school buildings, and equip them so as
to care properly for the growing school population.
There was no question about the propriety of voting the money
to bring the schools of St. Louis up to a reasonable capacity and
standard of efficiency.. All the political parties favored it, andrac
tically every civic organiiatton of St. Louis threw its Infloenee for
the bonds in the interest of public education. But ont interest srw
contpiatoutly oppoaed to tht enlargement of t public $rhooh; and
that in the en$ uhirh it Ivty alvays and everyuhtre doing t hat it can
to cripple pMic idntectarian education.
Prior to the electioirone Edward V. P. 5canirsnan distin
guished himself by antsgonism toward the bonds. Readers of TE
.MEXiC'K will remember how this individual figured in the trial at
Joplin which had been devised and instigated by Rome as a meaAs
of putting this paper out of business and its managers into prison un
trumped-up charges of slleged obscenity.v As attorney for a so-called
Taxpayers' Protective Association, Schneiderhahn made just such tn
effort as might be expected from a member of the Modern Inquhji
tion or Roman Catholic steering committee to beat the bonds.
But, when the votes were counted, the bonds were found to hae
carried by a vote of 72,236 to 21,106, or more than ten thousai-d
Totes more than the two-thirds necessary. Instead of the needed 2
Totes to 1, there were approximately .3 VSt oU to 1 in favor of main
taining the schools of St Louis. Nothing more has been heard from
Schneiderhshn; but the pope's locsl organ, the lYeslern Watckma'i,
of Not. 23, gives vent to its spleen and disaffection over the result
as follows :
The babies were trotted out for'the school election, and the bond
... .. .
to their educational welfare. Note the contempt of this treasonous
Romish paper for the men and women of St. Louis who stood by the
public school with their loyal vote and influence. According to this
typical representative of papal publicity, it was plunder and graft
that caused the parents of Missouri's metropolis to provide suitable
educational facilities for their children.
There is no doubt that many lay members of tho Romish cult
ignored the instruction from their ecclesiastical superiors, and voted
for the bonds. The result would 'ndicatc it, and that accounts for
the peevishness of the llVsem Wa' hman and its insulting reference
to the public school ss a home for i ie children of divorced parents.
Wherever Rome can defeat a bond election or an appropriation
of money for school purposes, it is done. When the black-robed
bosses of the papal system try to do so and fail, they are likely to
show their feeling over their failure just as the Western Watchman
has in this instance.
We vonder how many Roman Catholic teachers will It hired
and placed in these schools t hick their eccletuislical bosses hare tried
in cripple; and tie vonder how many ho hare vorled so hard for
this needed improvement can be induced to rote for Uoman Catholic
school officials to cripple the public school in some other way.
Those who believe in the liberal unsectarian education of Amer
ican youth would do well to observe these things, realize what they
mean, and take every step available to keep papist influence out of
the public schools and out of all public office. Wake vp and make
yourselves busy. It is no fault of Home's bosses and political manip
viators that this election for the improvement of St. Lovis schools
carried. Keep your eye on the interest that opposed this most rea
sonable public improvement, and sec that its agents are kept where
they can do the least harm.
riyixixixi7i?si?siyi?st
Mesack August VCth. l!Mrt. and we made an
urgent apHal to all patriots for the signing of pe
titions to congress urging the adoption of the
Resolution. The responso to this apjieal has licc.i
prompt aud gratifying. The petitions have been
tabulated and forwarded to Washington to be
filed in congress by Judge (IilU rt O. Nations, our
representative there.
The Committee On Rules
The next gun in our general offensive was the
appeal in Tuts Menace of October 7, 1916 call
ing attention to the importance of the Committer
oil Rules of the House of Representatives and
r.sking our friend to interview them with a view
of securing a favorable reiort from the Commit
tee. The names of this Committee, without whose
consent the resolution i an not even be considered
iit the Houe, arc:
Roht. L. Henry, Chairman, Waco. Texas;
IMward W. Pou, Smithlield, North Carolina;
I J. (inrrett, Dresden, Tenn. ;
Martin D. Foster, Olney, III.;
James C. Cnntrill, (ieorgetown, Ky. ;
Pat Harrison, (Julport, Miss.;
Thomas (J. Patten, New York, N. V.;
Philip P. Campbell. Pittsburg. Kans.;
Irvine L. Ienroot, Superior, Wis.;
William S. Rcnnett. New York, N. Y. ;
R. M. Chiperfield, Canton, III.
We again urge our friends in the states and
districts represented by these men to get in touch
, with them either in person or by letter and pre
j sent to them arguments calculated to win favor
able consideration during the coming session.
And now, lust but not least, we have chal
j longed the opposition to meet us in the open. We
; ask him to join with us in demanding a complete,
, fair and impartial investigation by a committee
, of congress. He says we are calumniators, stirrers
I up of strife, arrayers of class against class. Well,
Mr. Callahan, lei us see. Join us in asking for
i the investigation, bring on your witnesses and
subject them to cross-examfnation. We will bring
ours. Then let the American congress decide and
after them the American people.
During the past few week., three prominent
I journals of the Roman Catholic hierarchy, the
I ablet of lirooKiyn, New lork, the ( athohc
L'nirerse of Cleveland. Ohio, and the Catholic
Citizen of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, have advocated
militant Catholicism as will he seen elsewhere
in this issue. These articles arc all calculated to
inspire riot and criminal lawlessness. They per
fectly reflect the spirit of the Roman church and
arc tho legitimate fruit of religious prejudice, as
has boon foster. through all the centuries of her
history.
One of the objects of the League Resolution
is to show not only just where the religious
prejudice is rampant and a menace to law, order
and free government, but also how such prejudice
is at war against our Federal Constitution.
The league is earning forward a great cam
paign which calls for the aid of every patriot in
the land, a campaign that is as vital to the life
of our free institutions as any that has been waged
since the embattled farmers at Concord bridge
fired the shot that was heard round the world.
The enemy has the most perfect anil thoroughly
organized machine known to history, and is not
only supplied with unlimited cash but has an
army of workers active in every tuok of the land.
To meet this opposition the League needs, not only
help with voice and with hands, but also such
financial aid as can be given. Its large activities,
though operated in the most careful manner,
require funds far greater than it has at its com
mand. Hence, we would urge all friends to en
list the interest of patriots in every community
who will help to carry forward the work and as
sist in some way in raising a fund to meet the
urgent needs of the present.
Do your part ana the f ght is won. , -A
