Cttij pirn
The Sun Goes to 36 States
and Canada. Are
Your Relatives and
Friends Getting It? .
Do You Cnow That Ad
vertising is the Life of
Trade and the Only
Real Business Getter
VOLUME IX. NUMBER 15.
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1910.
PRICE, 5c.
roes Want Only Justice
mm
OCIAL POISE
A Graphic Forceful and Convincing Article by
that Skillf ul Weilder of the Literary Rapier
Charles A. Starks on Social Condi
tions as They Exist in This City
DO YOU ENDORSE HIS THEORIES?
Only Recently the Kansas City Journal Gave a Two Col
. umn Lay Sermon Along the Same Lines Discussed
by Him and Urged the Negroes to Take
High Ground on Civic Righteousness
WILL PROVOKE MUCH DISCUSSION
Y. RIS. GA. Notes
BLUES WIN FIR3T HEAT OF MEM.
BERSHIP RACE CAMPAIGN
EXTENDED TO DEC. 19.
Solemn Memorial Services In Honor of
Wm. A. Hunton.
Though the earnest request of the
Captains arid Lieutenants and the
unanimous vote of the workers of both
tho "lied" and "Blue" teams the mem
bership campaign was extended two
weeks to Tuesday, December 19 th at
10 p. m. In addition to tho men al
ready signed up, all tho workers had
prospects that would be able to" come
In In a fow days. Tho extension de
cided upon just before the count re
lieved the tension on the workers and
captains who were anxiously awaiting
the result of what Is proving to be one
of the most remarkable membership
The equilibrium of socloty must al
' ways depend not upon the arts ind
sciences, the purely social Intercourse
of units, the fads,, fancies or polite
follies, but upon the solid rock of
mainly of the cabarets and buffets as
assets to its unrivaled progress as a
cosmopolitan set of colored folks. He
said that the difference in Chicago and
Kansas City Is that here the best Ne-
clean-cut morality without which tho 1 groes hold aloof from the cabaret and
- . ,1 . .. ! 1 1. ,n - i tUn "Klfrrroat"
whole scheme or social fabric must
collapse. Simmered down, It Is the
proverbial test between right and
wrong. The inevitable contest for su
premacy between the votaries of
each. If right wins there Is cleanness
and advancement. If wrong wins
there is corruption and backwardness.
This may app'ear,hlgh sounding but it
you thought a little more about your
own environment and In what atmos
phere you live, what bearing it has
upon your life, and th'e chances you
have of absorbing the good and es
chewing the evil then this subject
would become all Important to you.
- Social noise would have a meaning. -
:'As a "rule, we are so busy fighting
for sheer existence which our fair
brothers strenuously contest with us
that wo pay little attention to phases
of our own immediate society. Its bal
ance, its ascendancy or Its retrogress
alvo tendencies. For Instance did you
(lint tiro nf Tnimaa flftv linvp. fl
JUlun "V '
better social poise than our windy-
city Chicago?. Why? Because we have
our strong distinctive classes based
upon moral nicety whereas Chicago
boasts of Its homogeneity". Recently I
Interviewed a baseball magnate of Chi
cago anil in showing the superiority
of that city over ours he boasted
sport circles, whereas the "biggest
Negroes In Chicago are the chief fre
quenters and supporters of such. The
average Chicagoan enthusiastically
verifies this statement. Now is Kan
sas City merely slow or has she a
studied SOCIAL POISE? The spirit
of our better element- seems to say:
We have our good, bad and indiffer
ent but the lines must be drawn. You
cannot be a cabareter and a Sunday
School teacher at the same time and
also bo classed with the best. If you
are seeking social recognition with
those who dlsprove.ofi what they know
to be demoralizing and you are a de
votee of the cabaret you must (in
the -words of Saint Paul) separate
yourself and come out from among
them."
Kansas City discriminates properly
between those who would buitd up so
ciety and those who would corrupt,
between the strict and dissolute, the
moral and immoral. A few vainly
Imagine they are playing both sides
but they am deceiving themselves
only. What many Chicago Windles
boast of as great, Kansas' City does
not desire. We are seeking a social
poise that separates those who believe
in moral accountability from those
who would follow the brazen trait of
Bacchus and Debauchery.
team has gotten 350 or. half the num.
bcr desired. Captain Young says
watch the "Reds" on 'the final daRh
to victory. Monday, December 11th,
there will be a big dinner for workers
and new members.
ADVICE TO NEGROES
-. Tho National League on Urban Con
ditions among Negroes has Issued the
following circular letter:
Negroes in. large numbers kare leav
ing the South for the North. Many
are' securing good" positions. Thosel
who are sober and respectable an'tH
know how to give an honest day s toll
are holding their positions. The In
dolent, inefficient men1, however, are
soon discharged, become a burden to
the Northern communities and bring
reproach and humiliation to thrifty
colored citizens In communities
where white people have not hitherto
considered Negroes desirables.
Tim National League on Urban Con
ditions among Negroes urges the
right-thinking Negroes of the South
and everywhere to dlscourgae the
wholesale migration of shlftlesB peo
nlfi between any two points, be they
North or South. The League also
warns Negroes against fraudulent
agents who are collecting employment
fees and who disappear soon after
wards.
Negro labor is In demand. Use
that fact to Improve the efficiency of
that 'labor by demanding First, bet
ter wages where the wages of color
ed men are below tho current wage;
second, better working conditions so
that your .health will not oe impaired
by the work you do; third, better liv
ing conditions both for yourself and
family, so that your efficiency as a
worker will not, be impaired by living
conditions which prevent proper rest
and rpcreatlon to fit you for the day's
labor, and base these demands on the
facts that all these things-will make
your work more valuablo to yourself
and to your employer and make for
better feeling between the races.
The National Urban League urges
Negroes everywhere to take advan
'tage of this great Industrial oppor.
tunlty to work In co-operauon wiui
their local neighbors whether North
or South, for the Improvement of con-
' . . i a,. n L . t i mnAa
unions wnicn wm mwti uum
JEWS AND COLORED PEOPLE.
There are. In this country, more
than 10,000,000 colored people, nearly
as many as there are - Jews in the
entire world. Tho. black man has
been fighting the race problem near
ly 200 years, and the Jews haye been
fighting It 6,000 years. Will the col
ored man continue to light tno race
problem or will he profit by the ex
perience of the Jews? Wo" have won
our freedom; we have our ngnis un
der the law regardless of tho fact
that we are denied our privileges,
But could we unite our forces like
tho Jew and turn our disadvantages-
Into advantages and glvo one-tenth
of the time, the energy, the Influence
the contribution, tho eloquent
speeches and the prominence that we
give to the discussion of equal
rights and the problem, to actual
work In organizing, promoting,, sup-
Dortlnc and maintaining business
corporations among our people, with
the Industrial foundation wo now
have, wo could within a few years,
like the Jew, buy our way tnrougn
race prejudice and discrimination.
DIGNIFIED CHRISTMAS GIFTS
At the Karris Printing establish
ment, 1515 E. 18th St., Kansas City,
Mo., will be found as usual this sea
son a line of Christmas cards which
will not bo shown by other small es
tablishments In this city. To those
who have learned that value in Christ
mas gifts are, by far the secondary
consideration. That sentiment is all
in all, wo would ask to look over tin
lino and place their orders prior to
December 5 in order that their deliv
eries may be made in ample time
This beautiful line of embossed, en.
gravlngs can be seen dally at the
above named establishment. It costs
you nothing to' view these beauties
even should you fall to order. You
will find the customary courteous at
tention in ovldonce, ,Tbe management
Invites you to come.
SPECIAL FOR TODAY.
A one-pound -box of f ino chocolate candy for 50 cents and
25-ocnt bottleof Penslar face cream free. Can you beat it!
AT SMITH'S DRUG STORE,
Oorner 18th and Tracy,
S. H. P. EDWARDS
Captain of the "Blues," who won the
first heat, of the race.
campaigns ever waged. This is espe
dally true because of tho large score
of some of the Individual workers. Jas.
H. Crews who pledged twenty-one new
and renewal members has already
thirty-seven recruits. There are those
who predict he will got fifty before
the campaign closes, thereby making a
new record. Capt. Austin Young's
f count to date shows 15; Capt. Ed
wards also 15: Chas. It. Westmoreland
a "dark Korse"'has to date brought in
IS members. Edward Ross and Cap
tain Edwards each expect to add fif
teen more members.
Tho workers claim that merely the
surface has been scratched. The fol
lowing is the Individual score; .
REDS.
Young ' 15
H. O. Cook 11
R. M. Wisdom 7
A. Page
Wm. Hawkins o
Lee Robe 5
Rov. J. C. Van Loo 4
A. W. Hardy
Morris Jenkins 3
BLUES.
Jas. H. Crews '
C. Westmoreland 18
F. A. Harris , 7
Rev. F. D. Well 4
W. G. Moseley...- S
Elmer Green
P. C. James
The following workers reported less
than three: John A. Hodge,-E. Ross,
R. D. Worthanii J. L. Steele, Jas. An
derson, J. R. Brown, L. W. Spencer,
A. J. Starnes, J. R. E. Lee, J. H. Knox,
D. A. Willis, Preston Powers), F. S.
Smith, C. J. Williams, J. F. Ward, Dr.
Perry, F. J. Weaver, Ralph Ward,
Earle Gray. C. A. Franklin, A. H.
Hamilton. Walter Lynn, II. B. Hoi
man, T. H. Cox, II. L. Cox, W. H.
Dawley, W. C. Jones, Thos. Lothlen,
The simple solemn memorial ser
vices on last Sundayrfln memory of
Wm. A. Hunton, Senior Secretary of
the Colored Men's Departmentof the
International Committee of the Young
Men's Christian Association impress
ed all present wlth-the worth of a life
wholly devoted to .'humanity. Miss
Anna H. Jones, who knew Mr. Hun-
ton as a boy told of his early life and
how when ho felt tho need of a re
straining influence apltlie Y. M. C. A.
for the colored youtli of the United
States, resigned a. lucrative position
with tho Canadian government against
the advice of friends and relative and
gave his life In service for his broth
ers of tho southland, f
Miss Plnyon, formerly a National
Y. W. C. A. Secretavj, spoke of his
matured faith, his tender sympathetic
helpfulness to young Christian work
ers. Mr. Hunton's pjnstructlve pio
neer service, dlploirijicy nnd uniting
Influence Between tlie races in a
worldwide movement were vividly
portrayed by Mr. ' c S. Bishop, Gen
eral Secretary of the?. M. C. A, Prof.
J. R. E. Lee urged those present to
give themselves In service for others
as did Mr. Hunton and thereby show
their appreciation and love for one
who lived wholly fof his followman.
He pointed out to thy men that those
who were giving their time and ser
vice, in the present membership cam
paign were emulating the life of this
great man.
Dr. H. T. Keallri'Jn a masterful
eulogy gave tho meitfanew and fuller
appreciation of this 'apostle of men."
He said that in lils travels he was
often thrown In contact with Mr. Hun
ton. He predicted "liat the Juture
writers would give 'him first- rank
among the great benefactors of man
kind and religious 'teachers of all
ages.
At the close of the memorial ser
vices, Rev. Bacote and Austin Young,
for the "Reds" nnd S. H. P. Edwards,
N. C. Crews and Jas. H. Crews of the
"Blues" spoke on tho membership
campaign, stirring up much enthusi
asm.
LINCOLN HIGH SCHOOL EXTENSION
Monthly Free Musical Concert
Sunday Afternoon December 10, 191C
Lincoln High School Auditorium
Nineteenth and Tracy
PROGRAM
1. "Simple A veu" ' Thorn"
(Lincoln High School Orchestra)
2. "Ethiopia". -. Mundy
(Lincoln II. S. Chorus and Orchestra)
!!. Piano Solo, "Etude" Goddard
(Mr.Nal Herriford)
4. Soprano, "Dreams" Streleski
(Mrs. Ida Lyons and Orchestra)
ii. Mezzo-Soprano, " Villenelle" Del 'Acqua
(Miss Lessie "King, pupil of. Mrs. Bacote.)
(J. Baritone, "Bedouin Love Song" I'ensuti
(Mr. Edward Boatner and Orchestra.)
7. Soprano, "Summer" Chimanadi
(Mrs. Cora Evans.)
8. Bass, "In Love's Garden Alone Am I" Manning
(Mr. David Jackson ; Miss Katie Hiues, Accompanist.)
Ih Contralto Solo, "Sing Me lo Sleep" Green
(Miss Edna Ilammett and Orchestra.)
10. Sextette (from) "II Trovatore" Verdi
(Mrs. Mablc Dimery, Miss Beulah Walker, Mr. Ernest
Finley, Mr. Elijah Diniery, Mr. Arthur Dunham.
Mr. David Jackson; Prof. Knox, Director, Ebon
e:er Church.)
11. Medley of National Airs Major Smith
(Lincoln 11. S. Chorus and Orchestra.)
Stur Spangled Banner
(Audience and Orchestra.)
J. R. E. Lee, Principal. Major N. Clark Smith, Director
BILL TOILET NEGROES VOTE
Penrose Measure Woud Prevent DlsT
franchlsement of the Negro.
Washington, Dec. 5. Senator Pen
rose, Republican of Pennsylvania, to
day Introduced measures which he said
were designed to prevent the disfran
chisement of the Negro In Southern
states. One of the bills Is the old
"Force ' bill," giving supervision ot
elections to the federal authorities,
which caused a bitter fight and pro
longed filibuster In Congress twenty
six years ago. He also offered an
amendment to the corrupt practices
bill, now before Congress, which
would amplify the provisions of the
Force bill.
Senator Penrose's measure provides
that all elections must be conducted
under federal supervisors, appointed
by the United States courts. No mili
tary force shall be used at any elec
tion, the bill says, "unless It be nec
essary to repel the armed enemies of
the United States or to keep the peaco
at the polls." Severe penalties aro
provided for Interference with elections.
: The Crosthwait Floral Co. de
: sires to announce to Its patrons
: and friends the removal of its
: place of business to the southeast
: corner of 19th and the Paseo op
: uoslte the Y. M. C. A. Bell phone,
: East 272.
DR. J. R. RANSOM.
A DAY WITH THE BANKERS:
r 1
Mr. J. AV. Perry, president of the Southwest National
Bank of Commerce, will address the Lincoln High School
Community Improvement Meeting Sunday afternoon, De
cember 17, at I! o'clock. Other bankers are expected to be
present.
W. A. HUNTON
Died In Brooklyn on Thanksgiving
Eve. Pioneered Y. M. C. A. work for
Colored men 28 years ago.
PAGE-CHINN WEDDING. I five dollars, Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Old
The marriage of Miss Inez V. Page 1am (white) ; embroidered pillow
to Mr Ernest Chinn took place Sat- cas.es Mtlss Ada McAfee; bottle toilet
urday afternoon at 4 o'clock, Novem
I water, Mrs. M. Rhodes, Kansas City,
WHAT?
Jackson county, in which Is located
Kansas City, went dry by a great ma-
ority, and thereby hangs a tale. Lo
cated at K. C. is the Muehlebach brew
ery which, a few years ago, erected a
largo hotel. One of the rules of this
hotel was that, no Colored man or wo
man should be permitted in tne duiiu-
IUK nil UilJ icusuii ua lauu , w mv
Colored people at once began a boy
cott of the Muehlebach beer, the same
being rather effective. Then when
the election came and the question
was put up to them, they voted almost,
In a body for the dry Issue In retal
iation of the brewery's act. Tho re-
salt was that Jackson county went
dry by an astonishing majority. Mis
souri went wet, but apetltion is now
being passed to adopt local option and
by this means the Colored people hope
to drive this particular brewery out
of business. Omaha Monitor.
w isfh nt th. hnm nf tiiB hridP'H Kan5- 8,tver ladIe. Mr- Erlee Fasset;
mother, Mrs. Lucy Page. Mr. Ver- elaborately oriental designed
non Page, brother, sang "The Perfect ; f,ano " Mr- and M"-.F' A". ?r"n-
Day" by Bond, accompanied by Miss "vVr; a,r emoromerea maia
Blossom Fox, Topeka. Kans. "ne" P1"0 S"PS' Mesdames James
' . . . . Smith and K. Fox; Miss A. D. Vinson,
Mrs. A. T. Moore Played the sweet ' ,r br,dal ,oveB. ,louse dresg ,nk
solemn strains of Mendelssohn s sllj. k,monil and Cll1( Mr and Mrs
Wedding March while Mr. Vernon , Q G Maaon. Turklsh towels and wash
Page escorted the bride-to-be to the j cothSi Mrg L page (motIier) five dol.
ParIor- lars, Mrs. M. K. Hammond (white);
Rev. William Alphin, pastor of Sec-: Pinic anQ- green sllkallne comfort, Mr.
ond Christian Church, performed the , amj Mrs. Wm. Page and Mr. Jno.
ceremony in tho presence of relatives 1 puts; three yards white satin rib
and a few friends. Miss lorence 1 hon. Mrs. Malinda Willis: two linen
Cosby was the maid of honor. The sheets and two paris linen pillow slips,
YOUNG MAN IS! APPOINTED DEP.
UTY SHERIFF.
Ypsilantl, Mich. Mr. Wesley L,
Sledge, of Ann Arbor, who Is con
ducting a tailoring establishment
here, has been recsntly appointed one
of the deputy sheriffs of Washtenaw
county. Mr. Sledgo Is a young man
who has won the respect and esteem
of all of the citizens with whom he
has come in contact because ot his
earnestness ond slncerelty in what
ever he undertakes. He has taken an
active part In politics In tho state,
being affiliated with the Republican
party. He was elected state organ
izer among the Colored Republican
of Michigan.
JAS. H. CREWS
First Lieutenant of the "Blue" vino
to date has brought In 37 memberships,
Wp. Garrett, Thos'. H. Clay, C. II
Calloway, P. R. Crutchfield.
Four additions through Rev. J. C,
Van Loo. rector of St. Augustine Mis
sion, who has been' In the city less
than two months, and by Morris Jen
kins, a thirteen-year-old boy attend
ing Lincoln School were among the
many surprises of this most unusual
campaign.
The score hoard showed at the
close ot the first beat 96 Blues and
85 Reds; giving the Blues a lead of 11,
A total of 181. Captain Edwards says I lng Co., 1515 East 18th street, Kan-
he will only bo satisfied when his gas City, Mo,
NOTICE TO SOCIAL CLUBS
It you are interested In having your
Christmas invitations, dauce programs,
dodr cards and so forth turn from
the very latest novelties In paper line
you ohould see the two Eastern lines
now being carried by tho Harris Print-
i r M i n-nro n pnun n f rpnl Inpp pm.
.... . ,
plre style, girdled with wide white
satin ribbon and carried a large bou
quet of bride's roses and lilies ot the
valley.
Immediately after the ceremony the
bridal party, with Mrs. E. Klnchlow,
cousin, were motored to Kansas City,
Kans.pto the home of Mrs. Susie Wil
liams and , daughter, Callle, who en
tertained the young people with a
very elaborate dinner, after which the
party returned to the beautifully deco
rated home of the brother and sister,
Mr. and Mrs. William Page, 2438
Michigan, where the L. S. P. Club and
other friends were received. Miss
Zenobla Keith and Mrs. Birdie Fischer
entertained with music.
The assisting ladles were Mesdames
G. G. lason, Charles Morrison, Katie
Powell, Lade B. Smith, Ossa Scott,
Florence Page and Miss Cosby.
The beautiful and useful gifts were
as follows; Bridal cake, Mrs. Lyua
Gates; 6 linen towels, Mrs. Maggie
Mr. and Mrs. Adolph Bryant; elabor
ate boudoir cap, Miss Blossom Fox
ono pair embroidered pillow slips,
Florence Cosby and mother; one jar
preserves. Mrs. Nunley.
The young people were showered
with the blessings and best wishes of
their friends.
Mr. and Mrs. Chlnn are at home.
2219 Campbell street.
The pleasing pastor of First A. M.
E. Church of Kansas City, Kans., and
a fearless fighter for racial justice
who will have his first quarterly
meeting Sunday, December 10. Dr.
F. F. Moten, the district evangelist,
known as the "Texas Tornado" who
has electrified both citys'by his pow
erful sermons, will preach at 3 p. m.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
Cash Or -0"erms,
The Best Xmas Present you could
make your wife and family is a Home.
We have a largo list of homes, both
new and old, at lowest prices and easy-
est terms. So, it you have any money
at all, it will pay you to get our spe
cial holiday offers. Write or call at
our office for our long list of homes
to sell and rent.
We carry Wall Paper and Paints.
Guaranteed sen-ice.
Selling, Renting, Leasing, Exchanging
'and Fire Insurance.
SERVICE REALTY COMPANY
W. V. Harvey, President.
Pass 826 E. 10th St. B. Phone M. 4461
BIRTHDAY DINNER.
Henry Perry, the Barbecuo King,
19th and Vine streets, celebrated his
forty-second birthday last Monday by
giving a game dinner to -a party of
his friends. Henry was born in Shel
by county, Tennessee, and came to
Kansas City in 1907, and so successful
has he been that five years ago a
specially constructed blulding was
erected for his business, and the Sun
can truthfully say that he is doing the
biggest business of any Negro In
rwrv. hrMi hnnnnot Mr nn,i Mrs. Greater Kansas City. His meat bill
nirhnrrt pnM- a lar rkuh towels. ! alone averages $350 weekly and his re-
Mr. and Mrs. Ben Thomas; set of oxi
dized silver knives and forks, Mr. and
Mrs. Chas, Morrison: two pairs em
broidered linen pillow slips, Mes
dames Jno. Oden nnd I. Ward; bottle
toilet water and box talcum powder, !
Mrs. Chas. II. Smith; six sterling sil
ver teaspoons, Mr. and Mrs. S. E.
Smith; two pairs lace curtains nnd
large bouquet of flowers, Mr. and Mrs.
John Powell; sterling silver teaspoons
(Mt. Vernon design) L. S. P. Club;
largo embroidered turklsh towel, Mr.
Timothy Jackson; Turkish towels and
wash cloths, Misses Maudo Harris and
Zenobla Keith; linen pillow slips, Mr.
and Mrs. Andrew Keith; three Turk
Ish towels and wash cloths. Mrs. Anna
Hayes and daughter, Ophelia; sot ot
china pie plates, Mrs, Jno. Gardner;
sliver berry spoon, Mesdames N. B.
Compton and M. Hlgglnbotham; silk
boudoir cap and dainty apron, Mr, and
Mrs. P. W, Walker, Denver; silver
salad fork, Mr. and Mrs. Jno. Heltz;
celpts average $75 a day. He is genial,
accommodating and courteous, but
strictly business like at all times. A
Christian gentleman and a Mason and
one of the few Negroes with a busi
ness rating in Kansas City. Those
present at the feast, which consisted
of roast duck, opossum with sweet po
tatoes, barbecued pork, mutton and
ribs, Southern gumbo soup and other
refreshments were: Drs. J. E. Dibble,
S. H. Thompson,McQueen Carrion, E,
B. Ramsey, attorney; W, B. Bruce
undertaker; J. W. Jones, Mr, A. W.
Harris of the Commercial Printers,
and Editor N. C. Crews.
To say they did justice to the menus
goes without saying, and it was at one
tlrao thought that Br'er Harris and
Ramsey would need the services of
tho undertaker who was present,
Every Colored person in greater
Kansas City should help make .Negro
Tag Day an unqualified success.
WELLINGTON, MISSOURI.
(By Hattle Hanna.)
Mrs. T. R. Turner of Kansas City,
Kas., was the guest ot her sister, Mrs.
J. Alexander.... The A. M. E. Church
was favored by a selection from tho
Male Quartette Saturday Miss
Mayme Scott of Kansas City, Kas.,
was the guest of her nelce, Mrs. J.
Alexander, Sunday Mrs. Carjee
Hanna Is In Richmond visiting her sis
ter this week.... Union Thanksgiving
services were held at the A. M. E.
Church. Rev. M. Denny of the M. E.
Church was master of ceremonies.
Prof. J, S. Moen gave an Interesting
and Instructive address on tho origin,
history and meaning of Thanksgiving.
Rev. J. Alexander of the A. M. E.
Church preached an excellent sermon.
...Many town people went away for
their festivities.... Mr. and Mrs. Allen
Price and Mr. and Mrs. James Price
spent two days In Kansas City shop
ping, . .Messrs. Roosevelt Tage, Pllvor
Martin, George Page, Isaac Garvin,
Richard White, James Walls, Herbert
Carey visited in Kansas City last week
Pleas Rostrutnan went to Lexing
ton while Messrs. Edgar Hanna,
Claude Garr and Robert Johnson
pulled off sport at a turkey shoot
ing in Odessa, Mo., Hanna bringing;
back a goose as the pdzez....Mrs.
Hanna Garr went to Rosedalo for a
two weoks stay, where she expects to
take treatment for her eyes.... Mrs,
Eliza Enyard was called to Bowllnff
Green on account of the death or her
nelce.... Dr. and Mrs. Ball of Lexing
ton, Mo., motored over Wednesday
and paid a visit to Mr. and Mrs. Grant
Page. . . .Mrs, Susie, Hogg ot Qulndaro
spent a few days here Tlsltlng her
brother, Mr, John Price, sr. and other
relatives and fr!onds....Mrs. Cora
Moten was on the sick list last week.
