Joseph Observer
,.,
The
-. VOLUME X.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 9, 191G
NUMBER 10
St.
THE BOYS ARE
DR. BULLOCK CHOSEN
GETTING
US
One of the Best Known Physicians of
I Missouri Now Head of State
Hospital No. 2
DR. WHITSELL IS NOW HEAD OF
FAMOUS FIGHTING MONROE CLOO
SPENCER HEADS SOCIETY
He Will Lead the Club on to Greater
Achievements Than Ever Be
fore Accomplished
When the board of managers of
Suite Hospital No. 2 met Wednesday
nt hendqimrttr rooms in ttie state In
stitution the selected Dr. H. II. Bui
lock of Kdlnu, Mo., as supeilntendent
of that areat Institution vice Dr. W. I.
Whlttlngton who has been acting as
temporary superintendent since Dr. (J.
It. Thompson left that institution last
February. Dr. Bullock will assume his
new duties about Jan. 1st. Dr. Whit
tington vvill now be first assistant at
the Institution and If a proposition put
before the board to create the office
of assistant superintendent goes
through, he will be given that place.
It Is u recognized fact that tho super
intendent now has too many duties
ami should have an assistant, which
will no doubt 1jp given to hint.
No better or more competent physl-
rian could have been selected for that
aiduous post than Dr. Bullock. No
nmn nniild lip tciiinil who would or
strip Gov.-elect Gardner's heavily eouId - now more ron8luraUon for tho now the recognized leader or all
laden plum tree of a part of Its lus- elgnteen hundred helpless ones to bo Democratic clubs of the great west
clous fTult and some St. Joseph nncp(j jn j,is charge. A physician of lu ll1 lts nnnual election of officers and
shakers are already close to me gov- .,, . mprt .., .. of broad ........
Are Lining Up Under the
Shade of Gov. Gardner's
Plum Tree
WHICH THEY HOPE
SOON TO SHAKE
The Governor's Tree This Year Has
an Uncommonly Large Crop of
Plum3 and There Is a Correspond
ingly Large Army of Husky Fellows
Waiting to Get Their Opportunity
to Rid the Tree of Part of Its Tempt
ing and Greatly Desired Load
With Him Were Elected Officers and a
Directory Who Will Give Him
the Needed Backing
The busiest crowd just now is the
would-be plum hnrv esters who would
That militant organisation the fa
mous Monroe Club of St. Joseph and
diectors at Its commodious hendquatt
ernor's gat don in which he keeps that and cf h,gn jaleii,Kp11Ce, coupled with ers In thc Corb-v building Tuesday
much sougnt tree. rarc, 0Xccl,Uve ability, he will give
All of the offices within the ap- Hint -great Institution the benefit of a
polntlve power and control of the gov- management that will be entirely de-
ernor will not be vncatodjjy the mere 0ted to the welfare of the unfor-
fact that a new governor has taken tunates placed in his charge. No bet
his place, in January, 191 1.
of tho lamer offices become imine- ti.r. vt.itu in.n.i rrmrmi iiir-i. .nmi lmv
fllntolv nimointivo and all others will whom It was named Is beyond ques
tion.
afternoon, the polls being open from
4 to 0 p. m., and a ticket made up of
representative Democrats was select
ed. That the new directorate will not
do Its full duty to tho cause of
But most tcr , could lime been lound had democracy ami susiam me name ,u
reputation ot me great man auer
ill others will
M 1 . .. . ......a. ah t.n
Ben .-, juni iu iirvpei uiuu iui iur.
head of such n organization as the'
Monroe Club. A bundle of energy,'
and gifted with flno personality and a
splendid speaker and great organizer,
It an be depended upon that under!
hfs administration the Monroe Clubi
wil' flourish and become a still
The Annual Election of Officers Gives
, a Well Known Physician and
I Surgeon the Honor
Dr. l'lojd II Spencer Is now h. ad
of the Iluchanan County Medical So-
, t lety, he having been elevated to that
, honor at the annual election of tho
-ociety held on Wednesday night.
The other officers of the society
lectpd were : Dr. W. L Kenney, first
let-president; Dr. G. A. Lau, second
vice-president; V. P. Ooetze, secre-
tary; Dr. J. M. Bell, treasurer; Dr.
J. B. Reynolds, censor for three-year
terra; Dr. H. 8. Forgrave, delegate to
l state' convention for two-year term;
I Dr. J. J. Bansbaeh, alternate for two-
. year term
It H announced that the program for
I the annual banqu t, Wednesday night,
I Df c 20, at the St. Francis, will be
"m,;,i ihing different." A number of
;n!Ml tunti, the nature of which Is
i being kept a se ret, are planned.
I
to
I
10 REACH VERDICT
The Jury Had No Reason
Doubt In the McDaniel
Case
to
NO PROOF HAD
EVER BEEN SHOWN
And Therefore There Was Nothing
Left for Them to Do Except to Bring
in a Verdict of Not Guilty and Thus
Brings to a Fitting Close One of the
Most Sensational and Highly Dra
matic Murder Cases That Has Ever
Seen Tried in the Annals of Bu
chanan County's Criminal Record
WILL NOT RELEASE
British Authorities Will Not Turn
Ksnneti Corcoran Loose and He
Must Stay and Fight
With Judge Thomas F. Ryan reading
from a narrow slip of paper the words
"not guilty" on Tuesday night, there
canir to a close one of the most sensa
tional murder trials in the annals of
Buchanan county the McDaniel case
In which the prosecuting attorney of
JUDGE UTZ APPOINTS
Disposes of the Detention Home and ,
the Probation Officers Place in
Short Order '
have to be filled within less than a
year and a half.
The political power behind the of
fices within the governor's dictum lb
enormous. Handled in a "judicious
manner," as the politicians call it, the
machine would be dynamic in force
and lrtually invincible at any elec
tion. It has never been invincible, the
political leaders hay, because the man
in power has always made blunders
In the parcelling out of patronage.
In the Larger Cities
. a r!(njtn -.i li iu iilfinilir oinioil flint
.-, .,... VYU,w....v.-.Wv.J.ji-' iteflinB P. Vestal.
Probation officer
Ijist summer Kenneit Corcoran, the
I . .LI. ....... .. nUwi ) .i-lltl tllCt WlltY.
greater and more potent factor in the ' eighteen -year-old son of Mrs. Lame um, . .,.- -- --.
affairs of Buchanan county and north- W Torcoran of C0 North Main street der of his helpmeet-his wife-and the
west Missouri politics ran away and enlisted In the Canadian mother of his three children.
Richard M. Duncan, who so accep-! service at Windsor. Canada, men his It was a tense and dramatic moment
tablv filled the position of secretary ' mother found It out she sought his tot the three hundred spectators ho
during the year just closing, was rt release on the ground that he was a were fortunate enough to be in the
elected, the club members thus show-'minor and enlisted tho help of Con.'"" when the jury filed back and
. . ... , ..- --,. ., stamlinz before the Judges bench an-
tog tneir appreciation ot nis enoris. gressman uoouer wiiu iuuk uie nuiuei -
S.
he does not intend to pow-wow over
the plums as has been the old cus
tom, he has set the politicians guess
ing, but the chief interest centers in
tho big cities where he has one Excibe
Commissioner at a salary of $5,000 a
j ear, four Election Commissioners at
?3,0u0 each, four Police Commissioners
at $1,000 each, all in St. Louis; idee
lion commissioners and police commis
sioners in Kansas City and St. Jo
seph, together with scores of state of
ficers controlling n total pay roll of
more than $225,0u0 a year.
But aside from the large cities, as
cities, the governor has appointments
tinder his control which, if distrlbut-
od carefully throughout the state, will George
weld it, politically, into an organiza
tion completely at his command.
la the nppciatments which Col.
(JbrUner would have to distiibute will
be found, In addition to those spec.
Acuity mentioned above in St. Louis,
K.wsuh City and St. Joseph, the fol
iovii.g:
Some Big Commissions
Public Service Commissions, con
sisting ot the members .three of whom
ii11 r utittrvtnttt i or mi rtr i t C'llni (nt
......... . . , . , claimed the
oi $u,luu eacn, ami employing, uesiues ,
a general counsel nt $1,500, and an as
sistant counsel at $3,000, employes
with a total .uinual pay roll amount
lag to moie than $75,000.
Vho Highway Commissioner at $3,
000, with a deputy at $2,000, ,and in
bpuctor at (1,200 and other aid at $1,
00. Hotel Inspector at $2,000, with three
duputles at $1,200 each and a clerk at
51. tOO.
Chief, of the Immigration Board at
$2,000,
It had been supposed by many that
circuit Judge-elect W. II. Utz would
not make his appointments until the
first of the ear, but he settled mat
ters quickly on Wednesday by an
nouncing the following:
Sunenntendent detention home.
rr;'wflv,.
juvenile court,
Cleveland Morgan. I
Fir.-t assistant probation officer,)
Mrs. Eleanor Chesney.
Second assistant probation officer, ,
Miss Nellie Griswold. i
These appointments were agreed toj
unanimously by tho judges of Uio
three courts of record Judges T. B.
Allen, Charles H. Mayer and William i
H. Utz and are for sis years, or
during the pleasure of the appointive
power.
J
THIS IS REAL THRIFT
Akers Shows Conclusively
That He Apprse.atss the Hirjh '
Cost of Living '
., j
Vhe hlfcii rti-,( ol fuel has taught
ono good citizen a wholesome lesson I
Thursday morning Ueort-e Altera v-aa
wall;ing down KelK in an unceitaiu
.A.y, holding a handkerchief to his
Jlu-e, when h" iiwt Joe Hunt, who nc
costed him and domanded to know,
a hut the trouble might be. j
"I've something in my eye!" ex
sufferer. "And it huruti
like the dickens!" or woids to that,
effect. I
"Why don't ou step into this drus
(t-.re and have the cleik take it out?",
saorted his friend.
"I'm afraid to." sighed the man with
the ied eve. "It might be a piece la
coal!"
This is thrift huch as America neirer
knew before.
DR. JOHN C. WHITSELL
A GREAT SALE
Inburance Commissioner at $3,000, Vhcn the Relics of the Late Repub-
with a deputy at $2,400, three assis
tants at $2,000 each, one at $2,100, .
live at $1.S00, five at $1,200 two at
lican Party Are Put Up
at Auction
Tho Monroe Club, although man.v James Uarviv was eleoted treasure!
people do not know It, is now the old and Joseph L. Rice sergeant-at-arma.
ebt Democratic political club In tht Iioth are hustling, energetic and active
west. Other cities have organized workers,
lubs amid great noise and loud a Strong Directorate
whooping, but they did not seem to nd the board of directors cannot
nounced that they were ready to re
port. The audience was small, as many
of those who witnesfaed the closing
scenes attending Attorney-General
Barker's argument had decided that it
was best for them to procure the eve
ning meal before returning to the
court room anticipating that the jury
would do likewise before they de
liberatedand this was the spectator's
mlstako for the jury was of practi
cally one mind when it filed from the
court room and decided to have it over
and then "go home and eat with the
i folks." n prrtlleg wijrti had been de
nied theui for eighteen long and weary
days and the members did.
Was But Two Words
When Judge Ran, after being told
that the jury had agreed, was handed
the folded slip of paper which meant
so much for McDaniel, the silence was
so dense and oppressive that the rust
ling of the little slip of paper as Judge
Ryan unfolded tt sounded even In the
most distant part of the room like the
beating of a heavy rain against the
window pane. When he read the two
portentious words "not guilty," they
sounded as loud as if he had shouted
bui he only spoke in his usual care
full., moderated tone and thon
l-'or a few seconds there -was silence
then the little mother of the defend
ant placed her arms around her boy
and whispered between her sobs: "My
son I knew you did not do that awful
thing!" and the gray haired fathei,
with joy showing in every feature of
bis strong rugged countenance grasp
ed the two shoulders of his son and
in Joyful accents exclaimed! "Oscar,
you ere Innocent; God bless you!"
Then the Friends
Then the friends of tho defendant
had nn inning they camo from all
sidos nnd from all quarters and they
reached for and grabbed McDaniel
from as many directions at once
They shook hands, embraced and some
of them kissed him. It was with the
utmost difficulty that he could extri
cate himself and get over to tho jurv
box where he shook hands with each
of the jurors and thanked them for
up with the state department vvho the verdict which they had rendered
tried to effect the release of young which meant so much for and to the
Corcoran. public prosecutor. Then he, with his
ihursday M.s. Corcoran received a parents as soon as possible, extricated
letter from Secretary Lansing stating themselves from the jam and made
that there was no use in prosecuting their way to the McDaniel home,
the matter further, as the English au- From the time that the state closed
stand the strain and wear and tearl h0 evCelled. for It Is made ud of work
One of the sales of the beason one of yeargi as ,ms thu st Josepn org.in ersamj not lhe fellows whose chief thorltles had now under a new ruling its evidence there has never been a
bl.500. asd clerical aid.
T.jilmr f'nmnilKslnnpr nt J? (MO with thai will eclipse any bargain day or i.,,i ,,ii, ,,,,, nr,,nlin,l nulutlv i ,.. . i .i...t ...... ..i. n in tho ni?H nt ennspnt nf fnreicn ilr.nl, t in tho tnln,l nf rtnv ...,, ll..r
two assistants at $1,800, one nt $1,- ten-cent counter affair will take place l)laced on a s,ounfj foundation and j for these elected are always to be bo.n subjects made the age of elgh- person that McDaniel would not be
I'OO and two at $900. at New York headquarters Jan. 1st, )ivpi tllerCi u js now known all over; found when the bugle calls for battle, teen sufficient and he would not be acquitted or at worst that there
Commissioner of Land Reclamation 1017, when the goods and chuttels of lJje we8t, and Its fame has even n the front rank and staying there, released. Young Corcoran landed might be a hung jury. When the jury
at $2,000 with one assistant at $1,- the late Republican party will be sold ,.edciu.j t effete and now decollette with such a board Dr. Whltsell will "h his regiment In Prance this week returned It took four ballots, the nnt
000. at public bale. Willi toi. i-oren ime uftBt
Adjutant General of State Militia as auctioneer and Teddy Roosevelt as( There Wfls No Conte8t
, U $2.C00 and his several aids at sal- clerk. The ladles of the late billion ,n th(j cMe Qf the pre8l(jen(.Vi the
- aries ranging from $1,800 down. (dollar special will serve a crow din-, 8ecretaryBh,p tne trdasurer, and the
Chief Inspector of Mines and metal- ner in the rest room, and the tfBergeant.at.Bnn8 tnere were no con-
jurgy at z.ouu, witn Beven aepuues.wiu vane ,ni:c u.c lUu 0,b . . . of t Democracy
ut $1,800 each and a secretary at
$1,800.
Commissioner on Permanent Seat of
Government at $1,800, with seven as
sistants at $900.
Getting Closer to Home
Employment Commissioner at $1,
S00 in St. Louis and one in Kansas
City at $1,200.
Superintendent of St. Louis rreo
Employment Bureau at $1,980; also
Continued on Page Eight)
have the very help that he needs. ,and is now In the trenches. The $70 three being 10 for acquittal and two
Tho board which is made up of which Mrs. Corcoran sent to secure for conviction, but in what degree is
twelve selected from among sixteen 'her son's release was returned to her not known. The fourth ballot was 11
candidates is composed of Emmett J.
Crouse, Nick Byrne, Charles Coy, Em
mett J. Crouse, Erb Felling, L. C. Gab-
Charles Evasion Hughes, admlnlstra- ch alwayfj perva(Je8 tne preclnct8 bert. Jack Holtman. Curtis Kennedy,
tor. Among tne oiieri.igs wm u. , of Uje Monroe c,ub ,rownB on con.
1. One elephant about 61 years old. g anlong nienibe and l8 tnerefore
sired by Wall street and damned byluwnyB n Bhapo t0 put up n g0d
everybody. . front to the common enemy which
One perfectly dilapidated Uepub-J t u,way8 Uoe8 and yery Be,dom o9eg
ltcan platform, all shot to pieces. thereforo thero wa8 no contest Tues
3. One Republican machine, badly lnUay for any of tnege positions.
need of repairs. ( D,.t Jolm c vhltsell, than whom no
1. One bet of teeth, seen for tho beUer or moro nctlve young Deraocrat
hibt time in public. (0Ver ,lved( waa unanimously elected,
receiving every ballot cast. Dr. Whit-
(Continued on Page Eight)
W. N. Linn, William Reiter. L. L.
Rosele, W. E. Spratt, and J Porter
Srite .
The club will hold a meeting in the
near future at which time the newly
elected officers and directors will be
for acquittal and one tor conviction,
THE DEACONS WERE INQUISITIVE i uml tno fiftn ballot was unanimous for
, acquittal. The state at no time had
Eureka, Cal., Dec. 7. The Rev. ever made a case.
Warren Hastings McLeon, Baptist The speech of Judge Charles P
minister here, disappeared yesterday Strop for the defense is said to have
after he had been confronted by the been one of the greatest ever made in
deacons of his church who charged the Buchanan county court room, and
him with undue familiarity with a that of L. C. Gabbert was also much
young girl who belonged to his con- lauded. Attorney General Barker's ad-
Installed and tho various committees gregatlon. His wife is prostrated. He dress was a strong effort but lacked
will be appointed, when the club will' has four children. The Rev. McLeod in convincing elements. The verdict
go into active training for tho munici
pal campaign of 1918 and the national
campaign of 1920.
came here from Chicago and had a brings to a close one of tho most dra
reputation as a former eastern track raatic and unneeded trials ever held
athlete, in Buchanan county
