THE BARM DAILY TIME
S
" i mil ' AT1.' r1"rrn
)M,ITn.v nrTi.'f itv.n o inirt imuPj,
. i
VOL. XX NO. 227.
WIN HEIGHTS
Have Made Progress in the
Carpathian Moun
tains BERLIN ADMITS
, REVERSES THERE
But Declares That the Rus
sians Paid Very
Heavily
Petrograd, via London, Dec. 0. Rus
sian troops on the northern Rumanian
front attacked tho Teutons yesterday in
tlio Futna valley region and dislodged
them froru two heights, the war office
unnounccs. They took 500 prisoners, six
machine guns, two bomb mortars and
one , cannon.
In the provinces of Wallachia, say
the statement, the Rumanian troops,
under unceasing hostile pressure, con
tinue to retreat to the eastward. In
consequence of this, it is added, the Rus
sian troops who ara on the luft flank
of the Rumanians arc also retiring.
Perlin, via wireloss, Dec. 9.--A strong
attack was made yesterday by the Rus
sians iu the Carpathian forests, the war
office announce. North of Terna Watra
and south of the Trotus valley, the Rus
sians pained ground at cost of heavy
losses. In western Rumania several
thousand more prisoners have been tak
r;i; also jnany cannon. The Rumanians
pro retreating rapidly. Since December
1, the Rumnninnn have lost more than
70.000 men and 14 cannon.
GERMANS DRIVEN OUT
After Gaining a Fotthold in French
Trenches Near St. MihieL
Paris, Dec. 0. The Germans, south
east of St. Mihiel, in the forest of Ap
rcmont, by an attack to-day succeeded
in paining a foothold in French trench
es, but Inter were forced to give up their
gain, according to the official communi
tion issued last night.
On the front of the Somme artillery
activity of considerable proportions is
reported in the sector of Bouchavesnes
and in front of Biaches.
FRANCE PUTS BAN ON
NEWS PRINT PAPER
Will Prohibit the Importation in Order
to Raise Exchange and Encourage
Home Production.
Taris, Dec. 9. The government has de
cided to prohibit the importation of
printing paper, according to a semi-official
announcement. The object i3 two
fold, to help raise exchange and to en
courage the French paper industry,
which, it is believed, could be made in
dependent of foreign supplies.
"WEALTHIEST NATION IN WORLD"
Is the Title Which the United States Has
Earned, Says Redfield.
Washington, D. C, Dec. 9. Unprece
dented growth of the country's foreign
trade, the commercial advantages which
will accrue from peace and the oppor
tunity presented for a heavier export
business and greater investments abroad
are set forth to-day by Secretary Red
field, "f the department of commerce, in
his annual report. The report gives
figures showing the nation's trade ex
pansion of two years and sums up the
country's commercial dominance as fol
lows :
"Our foreign indebtedness has been re
duced possibly three billions. We have
loaned abroad a total sum since the war
begun on August I. 1915, estimated at
1.500,000.000, and increasing. We are
the wealthiest nation in the world and
the most prosperous one. We have not
wasted our men or means in war. Rela
tively to our fiscal power to-day our
debts are trilling. Nations less wealthy
than some of our individual states bear
a heavier burden of debt and interest
than we.
"We aro the only one of the great
Industrial peoples at peace. Nations turn
In m for goods and means with which
to pay for the goods. None of t:s, in
our wildest financial fancies five years
p.io. noiil.i have dreamed that things
r.iuid be as now- they are.
"To protect our reserve of gold, which
is the ultimate baso on which our do
nvMie credits rest, we must maintaiit
our export tr:de and must continue to
increase loans and investments abroad.
Tim vork of the bureau of foreign and
domestic commerce is devoted to these
important duties. The report of the
thief of that serviee shows its extra
ordinary giowth and effectiveness. -In
thousand cf business offices its aid is
acknowledged and welcomed. Never has
our government put at the disposal of
our business and industry the helpful
facilities that are now provided.
"It is of national importance that the
great serviee which shows such practi
cal results should be given the men and
money necessary to carry on its great
work even more efficiently. The force
.f commercial attaches should be en
larged. Further sums should be pro
vided for the foreign traveling eernce.
The department acknowledees with keen
appreciation the aid which Congress has
given. The funds for promoting the
foreign trade of the country are now
1ie times larger than they were four
r.-ars ago. The results are many timet
greater than tha increase in funds."
FEAR GREECE WILL ATTACK
ENTENTE FROM THE REAR
The situation In Greece U not
only again of decided political in
terest but potentially of marked
military importance in connection
with the supposed purpose of the
central powers to turn the impor
tant sections of Von Mackensen'a
army in Rumania ' upon the en
tente. Saloniki army correspond
ents in Greece report a consistent
ly hostile attitude by King Con
stantino and the Greek royalists
toward the entente and declare
that efforts are being mndo to
gather a strong army in the La
rissa region for an attack upon
the entente forces from tho rear
simultaneously with attacks by
the Teutonic allies from the north.
British military writers call at
tention to these contingency and
decisive action with regard to
Greece is urged in the interest of
sound strategy and safety of the
entente forces in Macedonia.
Little of interest has occurred
on the Franco-Belgian front. The
only happening mentioned to-day
either by London or I'aria is an ar
tillery action in the region of hill
,104 on the Verdun front, where
the French and German are again
disputing possession of this height.
Berlin reports violent artillery
fighting on the Somme front yes
terday and says that a night ad
vance" against German positions
near LcTransley was repulsed.
BROUGHT BACK TO VERMONT.
Fred E. Cushman to Answer to Various
Charges.
St. Johnsbury, Dee. 9 Fred E. Cush
man, formerly" of Kast St. Johnsbury,
was brought back to St. Johnsbury last
night by Deputy Sheriff M. C. Garfield
and was lodged in Caledonia county jail
to answer to serious charges.
Ijist February a suit was brought
againat him Iv ti e Pulpit Farm dairy of
Manchester, N. IT., who alleged that
Cushman had sold some cattle he had
purchased of them and which they had a
mortgage on. The damages in the suit
were n't at $5,000, and Joseph L- Wells
of Granby furnished $",000 bail, allowing
Cushman his freedom.
Last July Cushman was arrested by
Deputy Garfield on a body writ for
Thomas Bclanger, but about midnight of
tho day he was arrested Cushman got
money from Wells and settled the Be
langer matter,, and w as allowed to go
again.
The next morning Cushman took his
auto, went to Granby, then ran to the
station in Lancaster, N. H., where he left
his auto in front of the station and took
a Maine Central train for Portland.
When he reached Portland, he telephoned
parties here who bad a mortgage on the
auto that the car was in Lancaster and.
they could get it if they wished. Then
he vanished.
The case of the Pulpit Farm dairy
against Cushman was set for trial at this
term, of county court, and. Wells was told
ho must either produce Cushman in court
or forfeit the bail. Mr. Wells instructed
Deputy Garfield to go into Maine and see
if he could locate Cushman.
Garfield went to Fortland and found
that Cushman went to, Old Orchard from
there. At Old Orchard he found he had
worked for a time as manager of a large
dairy farm there. From Old Orchard
Cushman 'went to Portland and jumped
from there to Yarmouth, where he was
employed as meat cook in a large hotel
until the close of the season. From Yar
mouth he went about 80 miles to the
town of Gilead in Oxford county, in tho
extreme northwestern section of Maine
and secured employment as scaler in a
large lumber camp there. He was found
there and placed uwlcr arrest Wednes
day and brought down to Portland on
Thursday and from there to St. Johns
bury Friday.
Fred E. Cushman is widely known
throughout northern Vermont and New
Hampshire, where he had traded in cattle
for several rears, and in all that terri
tory he had financial mourners. Since
his escape last July, his personal prop
erty on the farm at Kast St. Johnsbury
has been sold by the sheriff, and the farm
sold by his father, who held the mort
caec. and his wife' has brought a suit for
divorce, which is to be tried at this term
of court. .
RAIDER RUNS BLOCKADE.
British Naval Authorities Have Issued
Warning to Shipping.
Halifax, N. S., Dec. 9. Allied shipping
was warned by British naval authorities
last night to be on the lookout for a
strange vessel believed to be a raider,
which was intercepted on Dec. 2 off the
northwestern coast of Scotland, and al
lowed to proceed under tho impression
that she w-as the Dutch steamer Gamma.
Later it was learned that the Gamma
was at Kirkwall on that date and did
not leave until Dec. 3.
The identity of the supposed raider
has not been determined. Admiralty of
ficials believe that if she is hostile she
may carry mine for dropping lff this
port which she could reach on or after
Dec. 9.
The text of the warning follows:
"A vessel was intercepted at 3 a. m.
Dec. 2 in latitude SO degrees 30 minutes
north, longitude 12 degree 42 minutes
west, and was allowed to proceed under
the. impression that she was a vessel
named Gamma. Latter was at Kirkwall
at the time, clearing 11 a. m. Dec. 3.
'Identity of former not jet estab
lished, but description is as follows:
About 1,200 tons, black hull with red
bottom, white upper works, one funnel.
Thought to be plain black, no Dutch
flag on bow. Ship was apparently in
ballast, steering a course about west
southwest. Vessel may be a raider."
SHARK SKINS FOR LEATHER.
Bureau of Fisheries is Trying Out the
Experiment.
Washington, D. C, Dec. 9, The use of
shark skins as a substitute for leather
is being tried out by the United States
bureau of fisheries as a possible solution
of the high cost of animal skins.
"Already," aya the bureau statement
to-day, "acceptable leather is being
made from shark ekins in some foreign
countries and in the United States tbera
ha lievn a limited demand for the (kins
a coverings for email articles."
WILL NOT GIVE
UP PRACTICE
Germany Will Continue to
Deport Belgians, De
spite Protest
IJUT-WILL EXERCISE
DISCRIMINATION
I
That Is Forecast of Reply
to Be Made to the
United States
Berlin, Da;;. 7, via London, Dec. 9.
Germany in a day or two will reply to
repreieiitulions which .Secretary Grew of
the American embassy has been making
regarding tho deportation of Belgian la-i
borers. The result of Grew's conference
iwitii i.hnnt'ciitir von iseinmann uouwrg
on the subject will probably be that
I while the principle of using unemployed
iHclalans in Germany will be adhered to,
applied to Belgians not of the unem
ployed class, but that greater care is
now being exercised to restrict the meas
ure solely to the classes which it is de
signed to affect.
Washington, Dec. 9. A note to Ger
many protesting against the deporta-
jtion of Belgians for forced labor as con
trary to all precedents and humano
'principles of international practice was
jmade public last night by the state do,
partment.
I The note was cabled to Charge Grew
at Berlin on November 29, the day Am
jbassador Gerard discussed the subject
'with President Wilson, with instructions
(that he read to the German chancellor
personally. In making it public the state
department announced that the inter
view had taken place, but said nothing
about results.
Thcdecision to protect formally against
the treatment of the Belgians followed
unsuccessful informal efforts by Charge
Grew, under instructions, that he say in
formally to the Berlin foreign office ttat
the deportations were having a most un
favorable effect on neutrals, particularly
the United States. The charge was in
formed in reply that the policy was
adopted as a military necessity, and that
Germany regarded it as legal.
The note, with the department's state
ment making it public, follows:
On November 20, Mr. Grew, our
charge at Berlin, was directed to obtain
an interview with the German chancel
lor and read to him the following? -
"'Thc government of the United States
has learned with the greatest concern
and regret of the policy of the German
government to deport irom jeigium a
portion of the civilian population for the
purpose of forcing them to labor in Ger
many and is constrained to protest in a
friendly spirit but most solemnly against
this action, which is in contravention of
precedents and of those humane princi
pies of international practice, which have j
long Deen accepted arm ioiu uv cnu
ized nations in their treatment of non
combatants. " 'Furthermore, the government of the
United States is convinced that the ef
fect of this policy, if pursued, will in all
probability be fatal to the Belgian relief
work, so humanely planned and so suc
cessfully carried out, a result which
would be generally deplored and which,
it is assumed, would seriously embarrass
the German government.'
"The interview has taken place."
"PARTY MANNERS" DISCARDED.
Billy Sunday Bounded Desk Before He
Got Through.
Boston, Dec. 9. Five minutes wac all
Billy Sunday could spare to address the
Vermont Baptist ministers' conference in
Ford hall yesterday, but in that bit of
time he exempli led his peppery methods
of preaching and said he knew "no sub
stitute for the gospel of eternal damna
tion." To the 200 ministers and their wives
he was Rev. William A. Sunday, and he
started his little talk with his company
manners. Before he got through, how
ever, his reserve disappeared, alor.g with
his hoarseness, and he was banging the
desk like the tabernacle "Billy."
"I have to teach the metwagc the way
God gives it to me, though it may 'not
coincide with your way," said Mr Sun
day. "Nowadays the message has to
ring out like a fire alarm or a watch
man's whistle." So he justified his meth
od. After he left the ministers passed a
resolution condemning in strong terms
the reported refusal of Gen Funston to
let Baptist ministers work like other de
nominations at the border.
WANTS $20,000 FOR A LIFE.
John H. Bean Was Killed on the Rutland
Railroad.
Rutland, Dec. 9. A suit involving
$20,000 has been broucht aeainst the
Rutland Railroad company in which
Charles A. Purrincton, as administra
OVER 50 KILLED
In Italian Explosives Plant and Cause la
pains w! be taken to see that it is ac- entering uie nouse wnere ii was ikw.u- ..,,.,, ti., .. of Barre. passed away at
curateiy applied. M at the corner of Pearl and St. lu u will be held at Dixville Newbury Thursday afternoon,
It is explained that it is not always streets and received injures to his skull 7' ..,.,.!. line due to a complication of
possible, to prevent the measuro being ' which are expected to cause his death, i :The fun(Tai wa8 held at Nev
or of the astate of John If. Bean, seeks p.rm Wand nA Married WomanCauffht An urgent appeal is made to congress . iriemls and rtiurn" .. - -
jtuw rrr rsss
im. i rs . 17 i iui ii nil. i
not wtaoiisnea. because he was "no good" in her estima- : club, if he is on the marKei. rrwiaeni out an me cmrma ana .if . . xl , .w vt.i lent-There's plenty of
Turin, Dec. 8. vi. Paris. Dec. 9 An ' tion. Dill is a farm band. They left I Harry Fra.ee stated to-day. The t,t, orth 1 -TiAl." ' t rS rVTlr: V L;
explosion has occurred in the Alexandria Cl.remont yesterday momin,. and the lo- ment was made ,n n ..m with the hor. in ,,, , . ;.d ru-h he - re an , -nous , e u n r knowledge
explosive plant and it is feared more r.l pol.ee received a tip frn, Mr. Hard- ; report that the- lWland team , wm .njune, '"'' ' , ' h.rneTs law until about five jc. aftar you
than M were killed. The cause ha. not wis that they had pur.ha-ed tickets ready to bid .V O0 fo, Johnson r raree m.,hed to k.ndline and t,.e harness ws oi U .n J t
Lceu established. for this vity. The rest waa easy. said .othing had been done officially jet, tnrPed from the ammaL a4.-n.waa.
NEARLY CRUSHED TO DEATH.
Jules Pepin of Burlington Probably I
Saved By His Great Strength.
Burlington. Jec. 9 Jules Pepin nar
rowly escaped death when caught in the
elevator at E. h. Clarkson s store yes
terday and as it was received two frao-
....a.I ..It.- n,t ILmiiLinta turn from Ilia
back. lie thrust his head and shoulders
lo wie eievaior wen ironi an uin-i
story. He saw the elevator car ascend
ing and watched it for a moment, un
mindful of the weight whiidi drop at
the same time. Ho was caught by these
weight.
Mr. Pepin had the presence or minti
to stretch out his arms and caught hold
'of two of the upriirhts which support
the elevator. The weights caught him
J on the back of the neck. It is owing
to his ereat sUenzth that heSaved his
... - . . .11
life for. In spite ot tne tieufvy wcignu
'.Kh
pushed out two hardwood grooves upon
which they ran. They fell outwards into
the shaft and Mr. Pepin was released.
Tho elevator had by this time got to the
second floor. When the weights were
released Mr. Pepin would have fallen to
his death had not Mr. Bergeron seized
him from the back.
FALL MAY PROVE FATAL.
j0j,n O'Connor of Middlebury Injured In
i Burlington,
Burlington, Dee. 0. John O Connor of
Middlebury leu Mbt evening as lie was
Ho was
hospital
O'Corrnor returned to his boarding
place about 0:30 o'clock. Just how the
accident occurred is not known b" 'J
is thought that he went up the steps
and foil backwards. H was rendered
unconscious hy the blow to the back of
his head. The police ambulance was
summoned and he was taken to the sta
tion. There Dr. F. W. Baylies made an
examination and found that tho man
was bleeding profusely from one ear and
had a large bump on the ba-k of his
head. The man was hurried to the
hospital and there a further examina
tion revealed a fracture to the skull near
the base of the brain. It is the opinion
of the physicians that he cannot live.
O'Connor returned to his boarding
age and his occupation has been that of
sellinc men's clothes, canvassing with
samples and making the clothes to or
der. He has a wife in .Middleoury
BEQUESTS TO INSTITUTIONS
Were Made In Will of MarcelU E. Far
relL Late of Burlington.
Burlington, Dec. 9. The will of Mar
cella Elizabeth Farrell, late of this city,
which was proved at the office of Pro
bate Judge J. H. Maeombcr yesterday,
contains several public bequests, as well
as a number of private ones.
The deceased bequeathed 1500 and
:..'& in V .Trtiionti 'u nonviant
on Prospect street, $500 to St.. Joseph's
; or.,hanage
:jiuefW!i
ihanage, $2,000 to the Roman Catholic
-.ihi h D.v V1nn linker
l I in V CIV , jr.r''. .w hll'.r - - . - - - - -" ' - -n - t - - , I
of Buffalo for charities. $500 to the Rev. j all reasonable and normal methods, and Canal street and as they passed a uoor
Joseph F. Gillis of this city towards the , at the same time to keep the channels of way an elderly man hurried out, col-
erection of jtn Old Ladies' home for the
diocese, and if the home is not erected
within five years this amount is to go
to Mt. St. Mary's academy, $200 to Mt.
Marv'n nnttmv mill $'200 anrl house
hold furnishings to Sancta Maria home.
The private bequests' amounted to about!
$1 000 and the remainder or tne estate
is left to be used by theonicers of the
Cathedral school to clothe or care for
destitute children who may require in
struction there.
TRIAL POSTPONED TO JUNE.
Because Respondent, Mrs,, Anna Felch,
Has Child Two Weeks Old.
Attorney-General H. G. Barber of
Brattlcboro left yesterday for his home
after having been in Montpelier to con
fer with Governor Gates and in Chelsea
in regard to the trial of Anna Felch for
murder. The trial has been postponed
until tho June term of Orange county
court as Mrs. Felch has a two weeks old
child. She is charged with assisting in
the murder of her husband, who was
found dead in his sugar house a year
ago next spring.
MAN KILLED BY 'JTC.
Harry Littlefield a Victim at Somer
worth. N. II .
omerw orth, N. H., I.-e. 9. Harry
Littlefield, 50, a well known resident
of the New Dam section, was run over
and killed by an auto, owned and driven
by Dr. L. E. Grant, yesterday.
Tho accident occurred on V:e Foun
dry hill. Mr. Littlefield had driven
into town with' his team, and whs
cross-
inc the street.
after hitching his horse. .
He w
as struck by the mudguard of the
machine and went lieneath the wheels. I ir(lg of ;,0line. started inquiries into '
Dr. Grnt stopped his car quickly aiiJlie t arK,r situation and the bitu- :
medical' aid was rendered the uncon- I mjnous a,) anthracite coal industries, i
sicious man, but he died within a few ,:,i u. inv.f Nation of resale '
sicious man, out ne uieu wiinin
minutes. ,
Medical Examiner Roberts of Roch
ester viewed the lody and an autopsy
was held last night. From all appear
ances criminal negligence does not en
ter into the fatality, and the authori-
ties have taken no action as yet
"ELOPEMENT" HALTED.
Tonnz woman wnn aoanaoning
child. They will be returned to t lare
tnont. The woman, who is comely, was much
., m hr arrest and aul h ilul
. - . . . ...
l' Ka.lr t,. l.,..i,o.l
r -nm.n with abandoning her building w ith an order of feed. On see- i pnsed aay.
WILL PROTEST
TO GOVERNMENT
Aerainst Further Encroach-
ment on State Right
of Taxation
. ' . ,r
NEW ENGLAND TAX
COMMISSIONERS ACT
Position Taken at
Conference in Hart
ford, Conn.
Northfield. Dec. 9. State Tax Com
missioner Charles A. I'lumley returned
home this morning from Hartford, Conn.,
where he has been attending the sixth
annual conference of the New England I
.State Tax Officials' 'association, during
which he was re-elected vice-president.
Albert. O. Brown, chairman of the New
Hampshire tax commission, was re-elect
ed president, and Kdwin P. Tobie of
posed to further centralization of powers
in the federal government, chiefly as this
: centralization is applied to taxation of
' .,.,. .ithin
! the domain of the state for taxation and
, .producing purpose. Commie-
' f ' ' .t forhin
nf rnnnw-tifiit n.l Plumlev of Vermont.
with three others to be appointed, were
constituted a committee to consider
propep legislation relative to federal in-
corporation and taxation of railroads,
which is being discussed by the Newlands
committee of the Senate. "The committee
was empowered by the conference to op-
pose strenuously any further encroach-
nients by the federal government ot the
rights of the state in matters of taxa
tion.
"COMMERCIAL MORALITY"
Haa Been the Aim of Federal Trade Com
mission,
Washington, D. C. Dec. 9. The coun
try's business men have given hearty co
operation to the federal trade commis
sion in its efforts to maintain proper
standards of commercial morality in
American business, according to the an
nual report of the commission made pub
lic to-day,
Develo'p'ment of the commission's pol-
Icy has had for its first purpose, the re-
port declares, promotion of the best busl-
efficiencr. Its air.i has been "to un-
Anmiaml anrl malr n llnwft ft pa fnr thp rif
; ficulty of the problem, to see both sides
j of every case, to protect men in the fur-
: tti.Tunr nf Wif.imate self-interest bv
competition free and open to all. so that lided .with -zra, apologized ami
a man with small capital may engage in joined the party. The first man whis
business in rompttition with powerful pered that the second was a "farmer"
rivals, assured that he may operate his jand they engaged him in a penny-match-business
free from harassment and in- j ing game. The elderly stranger soon
timidation and may be civen a fair op- lost all his small coins. He had a large
portunitv to work out his business prob-
.ems yun sum muusuj, rmnt.-mjr
intelligence as ne my possess.
The report lays stress on the work of
the commission in nreventinc unfair com-
petition. Since its creation and up to
the end of the fiscal year the commission
lias considered 24 applications for the
issuance of complaints against corpora
tions and firms accused of unfair prac
tices. Of those, 107 have been disposed
of in various ways. Some concerns were
ordered to discontinue the tactics com
plained of. others voluntarily agreed to
cease unbusinesslike methods, and in
some cases no law violations were found.
The charges covered many kinds of law
violations.
The trade commission's work has in
cluded also economic and pecial investi
gations. What the commission considers
its most important economic inquiry was
into the subject of co-operation in export
trade. This report was issued during tne
summer and
reconinirimrii i., vumi
i i . r-.AWAaa
that American manufacturers be permit
fpI to form export combinations. A bill
providing for that, having the endorse
ment of the administration, is now pend
ing in Congress.
One investigation had to do with uni
form accounting methods. That showed,
according to the commission, a Ynvp pffl--centage
of the country's manufacturers
and merchants had slight knowledge of
their costs of production or selling ex
pwise. An investigation of trade possi-
bilities and conditions in each ot tne ,
:.i ..;,. tho rennrt savs. e-
de
! . -ninno.1 information that will prove in-I
, . , t nrrwinrers and persons con-
,,.,; investments.
T, comljsf,j0n investigated the hiffh
cnnTlnuen us iiif-i iicwliwii" .
i ;i : . : .... . i nn a r.uaii
price maintenance and aided in disposing
of the .Mexican sisai crop,
ment of the Sherman act included an in- j Miss Arlene Jeffords left last mpht for
vetieation to determine the relations ex-jWilliamstown, where she will visit at
istine between various companies into her home over the week end. She was
which the Standard Oil company was accompanied to illiamtwn by the
dissolved and preparation of a decree in Misses Lvonne Skinner and Kthel War
the Corn Products Refining company case den of Jefferson street.
fn if hv the federal courts. I Weston Gate, who has leen veiling
Boston, Dec. P. The world champion
n.., Americans tre prepared to bid
... . . , t i -.. i . . . f..i..
.CKII.IHKI lor me srrvHi-s n .....
ra.k nitcher of the Washington
DEATH IN EAST BARRE.
P. J. Dow, Aged 40, Sustained Fall Six
Weeks Ago.
l'erlo J. Dow, aged 40 years, died this
morning at 2:10 at his home in East
Barre of Blight's disease, developing
from a fall which lie received about six
W....L. mm Mr Dnw. who was a team
ster, was moving a load of household
.rood from one location to anoiner in
Kast Barre when he lost hi footing and
fell from the frotit of the wagon to the
ground, the wheels of the wagon passing
over his chest. Peritonitis developed and
then Bright' disease, which caused hi
death.
.Mr. Dow was born in Grot on, but had
passed most, oi nis nie in i ""
and the last six yeurs in Websterville
and Kast Barre. Eighteen years ago ho
married Currie Delia Scales "of Washing
ton, who survives him, together with
two daughters and three sons, as fol
lows: vis, Jesse, Kail, Glenn and 11a. He
is also survived by three sisters and two
brothers: Mrs. Kflie Bruce of Barre, Mrs.
Hat tie Coveil of Newport. N. H.. Mrs.
Maud Rnhonon of Lowell, Mass., Charles
Dow of Washington and George Dow,
who lives outside the state.
Funeral services will be held at the
house at 1:30 Monday afternoon, Rev.
James Ramage, pastor of the Kast Barre
Congregational church, officiating.
DIED AT NEWBURY.
Mrs., Mary Jane Brock, Mother of E. C.
Brock of Barre.
Mrs. Mary Jane Brock, widow of Car
los Brock and mother of K. C. Brock
her home in
death be
diseases. I'bury this
afternoon, with interment in tne lainuj
lot in the cemetery there. Among those
.from this vicinity aucnmng me luneiai
were the son. E. C. Brock, and his son
.together with the formers wife and also
j Mrs. Harriet Hajrdcn of Berlin, a niece
! of the deceased.
I Mrs. Brock was' born in Newbury 77
'years ago, being the daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Ephraim Bailey, one of the
old families in that town. Mio married
Carlos Brock 54 years ago. He died
seven years ago. There are three cliil-
dren surviving, E. C. Brock of Barre,
Ernest Brock and Mrs. George Martin,
both of Newbury; also four nephews
and three nieces, as toiiows
Harry
Cook of Hydeville, Carl Conk of Boston,
Arthur Cook, who lives in Maine, Byron
Crawford of Montpelier Center, Mrs.
Frank Putnam of West Newbury, Mrs.
Mattie Putnam of West Newbury and
Mrs. Harret Hayden, widow of Fred L.
Havden.
BETHEL MAN FLIM-FLAMMED.
Ezra Johnson Fell in With Wrong Bunch
,4 in Boston.
Boston, Dee. 9. Ezra Johnson of
Bethel. Vt.. arrived at the North sta
tion Thursday nieht and half an hour
later was mourning the loss of $25 and
j appealing to the police to una tne w
swindlers who got his money.. - , - -
lierore ne ieit me inm'n .r o
costed by a man who aked about points
; of interest in Boston and on learning
that i-zra was also a stranger,
im an aauaintance. They walked up
' gum jn bills, he said, but didn't want to
. procure it ' ; -
$-i ironi r.zra mim
! produce his "roll." After getting the
! monev he disappeared in the crowd and
then the other chance acquaintance faded
from view and Ezra sought the police.
CLARK ROBERTSON.
Marriage Took Place at Home of Bride's
Mother.
At the home of the bride's mother,
Mrs. Anne W. Robertson. 195 Washing
ton street, last evening, Miss Dora Rob
ertson and Harry Clark were married at
7:30 o'clock. Rev. J. W. Barnett. pastor
of the Barre Congregational church, was
the officiating clergyman, and the couple
were attended bv Miss Margaret Rhind.
; " . ' of the'
. . ' .,. nmrrh. The
i nriue. iim.cu ..........
. , - .. , , on. . fll(1
single ruin c " - .
relatives of the hnae ana groom n
nessed the ceremony. Alterward there
was an informal reception. Mr. and Mrs.
Clark are to make their home on Kim
street. No cards were issued.
TALK OF THE TOWS
Members of the medical profession will
meet in the parlors of Masonic hall Sun-
nay ai z y. in. i"i i " , ,
in-' the tunerai ot nr. r.irov i. nu-
er.
Leslie Htitchins. who has been at work
at the (Jeorge Lynde farm in Williams
town for several weeks, commenced work
as hostler at the Gamble & John
livery yesterday. Lester Harris, for
ly employed there, has gone to
Lvnde's place in William-town to y
Johnston
ormer-
Mjr.
.vn.i 4 n nT ill m uiinm-iw u n- .--.
. - - ...... .
.Miss Minv need 01 lut-i
BrookfiVld
was a business
visitor in the city this
ing the animal start to run. Mr. Emeron i
tried to pet to its head, but the hore ,
was under too mu-h headway and made J
the corner at the North Main and Sixth
street junction
on two Vheels. tipping
- . a j t a. I l . ua ap vnil X rw-t'I. Ill IIT.
BIG POW-WOW
OF RED MEN
Tents Were P vhed at East
Barre bjOO Last
E .ling
TINY J.? JH CHIEFS
WERE PRESENT
Four Tribes Located Near
Barre Participated
in Ceremonies
Two hundred Red Men, representing
four tribes in central Vermont, were in
Kast Barre last evening for the annual
district meeting. Wuchosen, No. 13, of
Kast Barre, was the entertaining tribe
and tho Red Men from Iroquois tribe,
No. 16, of Barre, Sioux tribe, No. 23, of
Montpelier, and Apache tribe, No. 25, of
Watcrbury, were present as guests. In
terest to the occasion was added by the
presence of several prominent Red Men
in the state and national councils.
Among those who attended were: An
drew H. Paton of Danvcrs, Mass., a past
great incohonee; E. C. Barrett of Mont
pelier, great sachem of Vermont; How- ,
ard E. Day of Bcecher Falls, great jun
ior sagamore; A. S. Humphrey of Lyn
donville. past great sachem; Charles
Brockington of Brattlcboro, great senior
sagamore; rrank K. Dawley of Mont
pelier, great keeper of wampum, and
. " g
nder Ros of Barre, great prophet;
George Rock of East Barre, great keeper
of records.
A special train which left Barre over
the Barre & Chelsea railroad early in the
evening carried many Ifted Men to East
Barre, and the same accommodation was
available when they were ready to return
at 12:30 o'clock this morning. The meet
ing Was held in the opera house, where,
at 8 o'clock, the W. C. T. U. of East
Barre served a banquet of corn and veni
son. The proceeds of the banquet will
be devoted to the public library. After
the eupper hour, the degree team repre
senting Wuchosen tribe worked the adop
tion degree in a creditable manner on a
class of 14 candidates.
After the banquet and before the cere
monial there was a brief session of the
great cluncil and matters pertaining to
the welfare of the Red Men's order in
Vermont were discussed.
During the evening nearly every Red
Man in the hall made it a point to pur
chase one of the little medals from the
sale of which Red Men all over the coun
try expect to erect a monument tt Mas
sasoit, the famous Indian chief, at Plym
outh. Mass. The proposed memorial will
cost $20,000 and is to be unveiled during
the anniversary celebration of the land
ing of the Pilgrims in 1020. Perhaps the
monument, at least its bases, will be of
Barre granite, although this detail has
not been settled. A bronze statute of
Massnssoit will surmount the granite.
Among the speakers were Great Sach
em Barrett, who spoke on the extension
of the Ked Men's order in Vermont, and
A. H. Paton, the past great incohonee,
who told of his observations during the
44 years that he has belonged to the or
der. He spoke with especial reference to
the growth of the order in Vermont,
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode
Island and Connecticut. Visiting Red
Men spoke warmly of the fine hospitality
displayed by the East Barre tribesmen.
ABOUT 500 SHRINERS
IN ATTENDANCE
AT MONTPELIER
F. C. Gilson of St. Johnsbury Was Elect
ed Potentate and 13 Candidates
Were Initiated Last Night.
Shriners from all corners of the tem
ple jurisdiction, including many towns In
Vermont and New Hampshire, were gath
ered in Montpelier last evening for the
40th annual business session and ceremo
nial of Mount Sinai temple. AH told
around fiOO members were present. Thir
teen candidates were initiated into the
mysteries of the order after the business
meeting and 6 o'clock banquet. The
Mount Sinai band and the Arab patrol
were much, in evidence during the after
noon and evening and all the features of
the ceremonial were carried out with
old-time eclat. The sum of $125 was
voted to charity at the business meeting.
Officers elected are: Potentate, F. C.
Gilson of St. Johnsbury; chief rabban.
Franklin Barney of Springfield; assistant
rabban. Charles K. Grossarth of Burling
ton: hitfh priest and prophet. William H.
Iferrick of Montpelier; Oriental guide,
Walter C. Washburn of Montpelier;
treasurer, David A. Elliott of Hartford;
recorder, Charles H. Heaton of Montpe
lier; representatives to imperial council,
Minneapolis. F. C. Gilson of St. Johns
bury, Harvey T. Seaver of Barton. Al
fred E. Watson of Hartford and Yrank
1). Dewev of Montpelier.
The candidates taking the degree were:
Newell Wirkham of Woodstock, Leslie
Barney of North Stratford, N. H.. Lee
Andrews. John Munn. Warren Morse.
Hnd John Andrews of Fairlee, George
f uninhrll of Roehcsfcr.Theron Meader of
Vew port James Mackay and Charles Me-
Ample Time.
His IVd If you don't devote some
time to study I don't know what kind of
