mm-
WW
VOL LV11I, NO. 90
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1916
TEN PAGES
PRICE
TWO CENTS
The Bullstin's Circulation in Norwich is Double TSt' Any Other Paper, and its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
Berlin Reports That Unfavorable Weather is Hindering
Infantry Operations
ARTILLERY ACTIVE IN SECTION AROUND HILL 304
Petrograd Reports Repulse of German Attempts to Advance
Near Lake Narocz and Dkskull Russian Infantry Failed
in Attack Near Baranovichi Usual Bombardments and
Infantry Attacks Are Going on Along the Austro-Italian
Front Five Additional Vessels Have Met With Disaster
a Result of Mines or Submarines.
Before Verdun the infantry has re
mained inactive and only in the sec
tors to the northwest, , embracing liiil
304 and the front from Le Mort
Homme to Cumieres, has there been
heavy work by the artillery. Berlin
reports that unfavorable weather is
hindering infantry operations.
The Germans in the Lake Narocz
and Ikskull bridgehead positions on
the Russian front have made attempts
to advance against the Russians af
ter preparatory bombardments. In
each instance, according to Petrograd,
they were repulsed. Near Barano
vichi the Russian infantry essayed an
attack on the Germans but was driven
back.
On the Austro-Italian line the usual
bombardments and infantry attacks at
various points continue. In Asiatic
Turkey, the Turks have delivered
powerful counter-attacks in the Cau
casus region against important posi
tions recently captured from them by
the Russians. Their attempts failed,
according to Petrograd.
Five additional vessels have met
with disaster as a result of mines or
submarines. The British steamers
Robert Adamson and Angus and the
British bark Inverlyon have been sunk
by submarines, while a Danish vessel
named Dorthea has been sunk by a
mine and the Dutch steamer Colombia
damaged by a mine.
A semi-official despatch from Berlin
calculates the French losses up to the
present in the fighting around ver
dun at 150,000 officers and men. The
British losses in the fighting with the
Turks at Sannayyat April 9 are de
clared officially to have been much be
low 3.000 the figure given in the offi
cial Turkish statement announcing the
defeat of the British column.
FRENCH LOSSES AT
VERDUN PLACED AT 150,000
Killed and Wounded Officers and Men
as Computed in Berlin.
Berlin. April 13 (By "Wireless to Say
vine). The French losses in killed and
wounded in the fighting around Ver
dim, says the Overseas News agency,
are computed to have reached up to
tne present time a total of lsu,000 offi
cers and men, or about four army
corps.
SIGNIFICANT QUESTION
BY PRESIDENT WILSON
Evidently Referring to Our Relations
With Mexico.
Washington, April 13. President
Wilson, speaking at a Jefferson Day
banquet of democrats from all parts
of the country here tonight, prayed
that the United States would not be
drawn into a quarrel not of its own
choosing, but asked if the people were
ready to go i:i where the interests of
America wire concerned with the in
terests of humanity and have the
courage to withdraw when the inter
ests of humanity had been conserved.
He was interrupted by cheers and
shouts of "Yes."
During his address the president
had men'ioned the Kuropean war and
the Mexican question without inti
mating what were his plans in either
of the problems confronting the Unit
ed States. He declared that in the
present situation the responsibility
was with the democratic party be
cause that party controls the gov
ernment and that "it is for us" to hold
the balance even and not to allow
some malien influence to depress
one side or the other. Most of his
speech was d'-voted to reviewing the
achievement of the democratic party
for the past thre years and a criticism
of the republicans as a party with "a
provincial spirit." The president as
serted that the nation was better pre
pered than ever before to show how
America can lead the way along the
pat hof light.
GREAT BRITAIN TO PAY
CHICAGO MEAT PACKERS
CaK- ; 'Paragraphs
Dawtsh Steamer Struck a Mine.
London April 13, 8:31 p. m. The
Danish seamer Dorthea struck a mine
Monday and foundered immediately,
says a Lloyds Amsterdam despatch.
The crew was saved and landed at
Ymuiden. The captain was wounded.
Turks Exaggerate British Losses.
London, April 13, 7.01 p. m. Lieu
tenant General Sir Percy Lake, com
mander of the British forces in Me
sopotamia, states In a report re
ceived here today that the number of
British troops killed or wounded in
the attack on the Turgish positions at
Sannayyat, April 9 was much below
the figure 3,000 given in the Turkish
official statement of April 11.
FRENCH OFFICIALS DISCUSS
GERMAN NOTE ON SUSSEX.
Said to Have Name of Commander of
German Submarine Which Sank the
Channel Steamer.
Paris, April 13, 10.20 p. m. The Ger
man note on the Sussex, signed by
Foreign Minister Von Jagow, has led
to a widespread discussion among gov
ernment officials, the public and the
press and has brought the quick re
joinder that the French government
has documents establishing the name
of the commander and the number of
the submarine responsible for the Sua
sex disaster.
Inquiry at the ministry of marine
tonight elicited the statement that the
name of the commander and the num
ber of the U boat would not be made
public for the present, as it was con
sidered sufficient to state the fact that
information is in the hands of the gov
ernment. The department will wait
and note whether Germany will persist
in its denial, it was declared.
It is learned that the officers and
crew of a German submarine, now
held prisoners by the French, gave
what is considered corroborative evi
dence that the Sussex was attacked by
a German submarine. The name of
the commander of this boat was di
vulged at the same time. The officers
and crew now held prisoners were not
those aboard the submarine alleged to
have attacked the Sussex, but cruised
in the same locality until their craft
was sunk twelve days after the Sus
sex. MILLIONAIRE ENJOYS
FIFTEEN CENT MEAL
More Arresls in
"Fire Bomb" Plot
WARRANTS SAID TO BE OUT FOR
TWO OTHERS
NINE PERSONS INVOLVED
Evidence Said to Indicate Not Only the
Shipment of Bombs to All Ports of
This Country, But to South America.
Britain's Trading condensa
o
With Enemy Act
Hubert George da Burgh Canning.
second marquis of Clanricarde, died in
London.
Gasoline, tank wagon basis, was ad
vanced one cent a gallon to 20 cents
at Detroit.
EXPLAINED IN REPLY TO AMER
ICAN NOTE OF PROTEST
IS PURELY DOMESTIC
Assures United States That In Its
. Enforcement Care Will be Taken to
Avoid Injury to Neutral Commerce.
H. B. Endicott, Boston Shoe Manufac
turer Has Luncheon With 700 Employes.
For Cargoes Seized Valued at Between
$15,000,000 and $20,000,000.
London, ApriL.J3t.7.;27 p m. Chand
ler P. Anderson, formerly counsellor
tor the state department at Washing
ton and now representative of the
imcago meat pacKers in the prize
court cases, involving cargoes valued
at between $15,000,000 and $20,000,0.10,
stated tonight that a ttlement with
the British government had been agreed
upon and that the money would be
paid over tomorrow.
"I wish," said Mr. Anderson, "to
express my appreciation of the fairness
with which the negotiations with the
representatives of the British govern
ment have been conducted and the
friendly consideration with which I
and my clients have been treated."
Mr. Anderson represents Armour,
o'", nammtina ana atoms compa
nies. Lloyd Griscom, representing the
Sehwarsehild and Sulzberger eomnnnv.
also joined in the settlement on the
same basis as Mr. Anderson.
Mr. Anderson said the amount to be
paid by the British government would
be announced later.
Boston, Mass., April 13. H. B. En
dicott of the firm of Kndicott-Johnson
company, shoe manufacturers, is how
in Xew York state visiting the large
factories ox his company, and ac
cording to information received in
Boston today he had a fifteen cent
luncheon with 700 of his workingmen
at the company restaurant in John
son City yesterday. There are sev
eral thousand employes in the fac
tories in Endicott and Johnson City,
and in the latter place the compans
maintains a lunch counter where the
employes are given luncheons at re
duced prices. Mr. Endicott is ac
companied by his son. H. W. Endi
cott.
AN
IPJIMEDIATE INCREASE
IN THE NAVY DEMANDED
BOY RAN A FAKE
EMPLOYMENT BUREAU
Young Italian Charged With Duping
His Countrymen in Waterbury.
Waterbury, Conn., April 13. Arma
dillo, an 18-year old Italian, was today
bound over to the next criminal term of
the superior court after the finding of
probable cause on the charge of ob
taining money under false pretenses
on evidence which it is alleged indicat
ed that the boy had been collecting
money from his countrymen on a. fake
employment scheme. The boy prom
ised to obtain $3.50 a day positions
with the New Haven road for which he
charged BO cents. Fifty cents was al
so collected for the purchase of jump
ers. Jobs and Jumpers did not mater
ialize. Later the boy was Identified as
one who had found an envelope in
which were checks amounting to sev
eral hundred dollars drawn on a local
bank. He claimed to have destroyed
the checks, but it is alleged that he
tried to cash some of them. Bond was
fixed at $200.
TO INCREASE MEMBERSHIP
OF AMERICAN RED CROSS
Plans Have Been Made for a Nation
wide Campaign.
New York, April 13. William H.
Taft, chairman of the central com
mittee of the American Red Cross, an
nounced today that plans have been
made to undertake a nation-wide cam
paign to Increase the membership of
he organisation to a million. The
movement will begin immediately in
this city. It is expected that about
100,000 members can be obtained in
Ne wYork and nearby cities In New
Jersey and Connecticut,'
WASHINGTON IS AWAITING
COMPLETE INFORMATION
.
Gen. Funston Empowered to Take Any
Steps He Believes Necessary.
Washington, April 13. Complete in
formation regarding the losses to the
American troops or to the Mexicans
had not reached Washington tonight.
Secretary Baker informed President
Wilson that a brief despatch to the
war department said that according to
unofficial reports one American caval
ryman was killed and that the troop
ers used a machine gun against the
ai ex leans.
Mr. Baker announced later that he
had ordered General Funston to take
any steps that might bo necessary to
prevent further trouble. When asked
whether this might mean the enforc
ed use of Mexican railroads for the
movement of soldiers and supplies, he
saia jenerai t unston was on the
ground and would act as any emergen
cy required. The secretary expressed
the hope, however, that the trouble at
Parral was purely local and did not
presage further difficulties.
In Resolution Passed By Navy League
of the United States.
Washington, April 13. A rational
defense commission, a navy general
staff and an immediate increase in the
navy were demanded in resolutions
adopted here today at the final meet
ing of the annual convention of the
Navy League of the United States.
Officers of the league were instructed
to urge congress to enact the neces
sary legislation.
FrankMn D. Koosevelt, assistant sec
retary of the navy, defended the navy
against criticism from those who. he
said, weer trving to gain personal or
political profit.
REVOLUTION IN CHINA
STIRRING UP JAPANESE.
New York, April 13. Three more
arrests were made tonight in connec
tion with the alleged conspiracy to
destroy ships carrying war munitions
to the entente allies by placing "lire
bombs" in their cargoes. Warrants,
it was announced, are out for two
others, thus involving nine persons al
together. The arresls tonight closely
followed the arraignment before United
States Commissioner Houghton of the
four men taken into custody last night.
Three Additional Arrests.
The three additional prisoners are1
Carl Schmidt, chief engineer of the
steamer Friedrich der Gross of the
North German Lloyd line, and Fred
erick Praedie and Carl Paradis, assist
ants to Schmidt. The authorities still
are looking for Charles Karbade, also
an assistant engineer aboard the big
German vessel interned here, and Wal
ter T. Scheele, president of the New
Jersey Agriculture and Chemictal com
pany of Hoboken, where the bombs are
alleged to have been manufactured.
Evidence Indicates Widespread Con
spiracy.
Assistant United States Attorney
Roger B. Wood, in charge of the prose
cution, declares that the evidence thus
far obtained indicates a conspiracy
with far-reaching ramifications, in
cluding not only the shipment of bombs
to all ports of this country, but to
South America. He said the men un
der arrest and those for whom war
rants are out probably were not the
ringleaders in the plot.
Prisoners Waived Reading of Com
plaint.
The four prisoners arraigned today
waived the formal reading of the com
plaint, made by Detective Sergeant
George L. Barnitz, who asserted that
to divulge the sources of his informa
tion at this time would be against
public policy. Captain Otto Wolpert,
superintendent of the Atlas line piers
of the Hamburg-American Steamship
company, and Captain Enno Bode, su
perintendent of the Hamburg-American
line piers in Hoboken, N. J., each was
he'd in $25,000 bail, while Ernest
Becker, an electrician on the steamer
Friedrich der Grosse, and Captain
Charles Von Kleist, superintendent of
the New Jersey Agriculture and Chem
ical company, each., was held in 5.000
bail.
A surety company furnished bonds
for Bode and Wolpert and they were
released. The others, however, were
unt.ble to obtain bail and were paroled
in the custody of Captain William M,
OR'.ey, in cuarw of the local bureau
of the department of justice A fur
ther examination was set for April 27.
What Complaint Charges.
The complaint charges that the nine
men "conspired and agreed among
themselves that tin y should within the
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of
til? United Slates wiitui'y,
felcniou.sly and corruptly surprise mid I
by open force maliciously attack and!
set upon vessels belonging to others,
with intent then and there unlawfully ! r
.1 : i . l. . . u ... :
of money, goods anj merchandise laden
on board such vessels."
Schmidt, Praedie and Paradis were
arrested in Hobi ken. where ti e Fried
rich uer Grosse has bwn tid up at
her pier since tiie outbreak of the Eu
ropean war. They were brought to
police headquarters in this city and
probably will be arraigned tomorrow.
Emba.-coes on all Canadian oointa
nave been in tea Dy tae Canadian la
citic rauroad.
More than $1,CC0,000 has already been
spent by the Lniu-d tales in the hunt
lor r rancisco V iila.
March sugar consumption in Great
Britain is given at 155,ouu tons by the
uruish Uoard or Trade,
William A. Demerest, prominent res
idem of Midaletown, N. V, shot and
killed himself In his office there.
Washington. April IS. Great I An advance of 10 per cent. In the
Britain's reply to the American note wages of 900 operatives In Fitchburg
protesting against the trading with I cotton yarn nuns was announced.
the enemv act a a "nrpenant with now- I
sibilities of undue Influence with Mr- Ellen French" Aldrich, former
American trade," describe the act as l mayor or Dayton. U., was elected the
"purely domestic legislation to re
strict the activities and trade of per
sons under British jurisdiction ana
assures the United States that In its
enforcement every care will be exer
cised to avoid injury to neutral com
merce.
AMERICAN TROOPS MORE VIGILANT
Expeditionary Forces in Mexico Are Taking Precau
tions Against Attacks From Any Quarter
first woman mayor of Saytelle, U.
Lloyds announced that the new Brit
ish steamship Senator has been sunk.
The crew is believed to have been
saved.
Thirtv-three small woolen milt In
To Prevent Trading With Enemies. I various parts of Connecticut have
The act approved last December. Is raised the wares of their employes 10
designed to prevent British subjects I Per cent.
rrom trading with any business firm
which has business connections with,
A plague of pheasants has struck
or Is controlled In any part by Great I Portland. Ore. Game laws prevent the
tsrltair. s enemies. I """!S'.-r ui me uirus, men ny inio
In its protest, presented to the nouses and dig up plants.
British foreign office January 26 bj
1 AKEfflCAN KILLED, 1 WOUKDED AT PARRAL
News That Carranza Has Practically Requested the With-
3rawal of American Troops Has Been Communicated to
the Various Detachments in Mexico General Funston
Sencb Scouts to Watch Movements of Mexican Troops, to
Report Any Suspicious Manoeuvres Until Ordered to
Act Otherwise General Pershing Will Continue Pursuit
of Vula.
Philander C. Knox filed papers at
Harrisburg. Pa., as a candidate for
the nomination of United States sena
tor on the republican ticket.
Ambassador Page, the United States
expressed the opinion that the regu
lations naa tieen framed "without a
proper regard for the right of persons
ilnmloital 1m tha TT-,, Co.... r
narrc nn trcria a-ity, in Kt I Employes of the Cleveland street car
ligerer.t countries" and made a form- VT8 have demanded of the company
nl reservation of the rlsrht to pnntPt 40 cents an hour for all motormen and
its legality should It be found that conductors, beginning May 1
American trade was hampered.
The Brazilian steamer Guaiara ar
rived at Norfolk. Va., in a Uamased
condition. A salvage crew of the
steamer Sixaola was in charge.
San Antonio. Texas. April 13. From
Columbus, X. M, to points near the
Chihuahua-Durango state line. Ameri
can troops increased their vigilano?
today against attacks from any quar
ter. Word that Carranza had request
ed the opening of negotiations looking
to their withdrawal went up and down
the line of communications and for
ward to the cp.mps of the dc:aeh"d
cavalry columns that have penetrated
the hills and mountains beyond Parral
in their search for Francisco Viila.
No official communication w-nt to
them and will not until the war de
partirient has communicated the news
and its wishes to General Funston,
but orders, it was learned, have been
sent from here to take all precautions
against attack bv any organisation
whether that of Villi or not.
No Report from Gen. Pershing.
General Funston received no report
from General Pershing regarding the
Parral Incident and late today be
knew no more of that development
than was contained In the report sent
forward by Consul !tcher from Chi
huahua and that given In press des
patches from Washington. His infor-
(Continued on Page Six)
THREE COLLECTIONS OF ART
TREASURES BRING S4,G30,COO.
Renaissance Eronzes, Limoges Enamels
and Italian Majolicas.
Text of British Reply
The text of the British reply In the
form of a foreltm office memorandum
to Ambassador Page, dated February
mm UJ.UIC I uic I . ... . . " I K w X OT K. ADHI 13 I hr.n mro
partment tonight, follows: nre a,Doara tne Spanish steamer Angel collections of art treasures cathered h.
I have the honor to acknowledge tVrFrez- 1i,SD?" 'JT K naueipaia,wnich i the late J. Picruint l!nran h-,- h,,.;
the receipt of Your Excellency's note pul ,n al &l- "cnaels, Azores. I sold by his son, J. p. Morgan, it was
i Lilt? f nn ultimo rfiii'.ivt- 10 ine pns- I , , -.. . m- , . .
slhlo efTects of the trading with the The death of Lieut. Fedeno Di Palma
wmv (extension of powers) act of "f the, ltalia" a.rmy- wtl0 married Vi?s
1915, on United States commerce. -osaue a. ii,uim or ixwell. aiass..
Framed to Harmonize With French.
"The net was framed with the ob
ject of bringing British trading-wlth
fhe-enrmy regulations Into grearei
harmony with those adopted by the
FVench government since thn come
mencment of the war by applying In
?ome degree the test of nationality In
Three hundred operatives in the dve
house of the Pacific cotton mills at
Ijawrenco. Mass.. went on strike for a
ten per cent. Increase In wages.
George E. Hazen, president of the
Hazen-Brown company, manufactur-
the determination of enemv character rubber cement-, died at his horre
in addition to the old test of dorr.t- !" rot-Klon. "ass. ne was years 01
cl!e. which experlpnci has shown I 8e'
cannot provide a suflc'ont hn!s un
der modern commercial conditions for
measnrcs Intended to deprive the en
prof of nil assistance, direct or mdl-
rect from national resources.
"His Malestv's envemmnt realiz
ed however, that the arbitration of
''ti prlnclr' to tt fullest extent, i
rnvc enurMv iPciTimare araa in ac
cordance with the pmctjen of other
countries, mleht. If ?ppl!M nt the
present tlm to commer"!-' n'Mvlties
as wierrend as the nf FriMb s.b
4"ct"!. Involve inconvenience and loss
'o innocent tracers.
Plnkncy C. Clarke, aged 50, colored,
was crushed to death "In- rn elevator
shaft In Xew Haven, being caught be
tween a guard door and the car as It
shot upwards.
Carranza Consul Gsrcla at El Paso
annourcd that $ j.f'f i.r.oo worth of loot
burit-d by Totr.as Ur'oina, the late Vii!a
gereral. has brn recovered by Car
ranza military forces.
SECOND CONVICTION FOR
MURDER OF BARNET BAFF.
GERMAN ROYALTY
WILLING TO PAY TAXES
Although They Are Legally Exempt
From 80 Doing.
Berlin, April 1. (By wlreesa to
Bayrllle.) According to the Overseas
News Agency Dr. Karl Helfferlch, the
secretary of the treasury, made the
announcement In the relchstag- that
German prlnoea and princesses of fed
eral etatea bad declared their readlnecs
to parti oi pate In the same way all
oitisatM in the payment of war benefit
tazaa, although no lea-al obligation ex
sta tor them to do so.
Frank Ferrara Drove Car Which Car
ried the Murderers.
New York, April 13. A verdict of
guilty of murder in the first degree
was returned by a Jury late today
against Frank Ferrara for his share
in the slaying of Barnet Baff, the
poultry dealer who was killed by gun
men alleged to have been hired by
business rivals. Ferrara is the second
man to be convicted for the crime, and
two more remain to be tried. Giuseppe
Ancnieno was round guilty last week.
In a confession which was Introduced
In evidence Ferrara said he was the
driver of tne car which carried the
murderers to the scene of the crime,
He repudiated the confession on the
witness stand. The Jury was out an
hour and a naif. Ferrara was remand
ed to the Tombs for sentence April 20.
WILLIAM H. SCOTT'S DEATH
DUE TO NATURAL CAU8E8
Medical Examiner Deolined to Give
Reasons for Coroner's Inquest.
Greenwich, Conn,, April 18, Tho
Investigation Into the death of William
H. Scott at Cos Cob waa dropped to
day, It being aiscloMd by an kutopay
that death waa duo to natural causes
abscess on the liver. Medical Ex
aminer J. A. Clark had requested
Coroner Fheian of Bridgeport to make
an investigation. He declined to make
public his reasons for taking; the cor
oner to Inquire,
Military Intervention by Japan is Con
sidered Improbable.
Tokio, Japan, April 13. The revolu
tion in China is causing some dis
quietude in Japan, where the opinion
is held that it will be difficult for Yuan
Shi Kai to retain the presidency. In
well informed- circles, both Japanese
and foreign, military intervention by
Japan is regarded as extremelv im
probable unless the lives and interests
of Japanese subjects should be im
periled. Should intervention become
necessary, Japan presumably would act
on oenait or her allies, on account of
the fact that they are occupied by the
European war.
EVIDENCE RELATING TO
INCREASED PRICE OF GASOLINE
INTERNED GERMANS IN
CANADA TO BE PUT TO WORK.
Will Be Paid Regular Wages In the
Fields of Manitoba.
Chicago, April 13. Several thous
and interned Germans in Canada will
be put to work in the fields 01 Man
itoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta this
spring and will be paid the regular
wages of farm laborers, according to
W. W. Cory of Ottawa. Canadian dep
uty minister of the interior, who is
in Chicago today. A number of -..he
interned men have expressed a willing
ness to break camp monotony by go
ing into the fields, Mr. Cory said and
it is believed many of them will take
homesteads after the war.
Is Being Considered By the Depart
ment of Justice.
Washington, April 13. Evidence re
lating to the rise in price of gasoline
is being condisered by the department
of justice, with a view, it is under
stood, to determining if prosecutions
can be brought under the law as it
stands or whether additional legisla
tion will be required.
Attorney General Gregory .declined
today to give the senate the informa
tion sought in the Kenyon resolution
regarding the results of an investi
gation of the worgink of the supreme
corurt's Standard Oil decree on the
ground that to do so would be incom
patible with the public interest. This
development and the reappearance of
Charles B. Morrison of Chicago, in
connection with the case, strengthen
ed the belief In some quarters that the
department had not finished Its inves
tigation and gave rise to the report
that department officials had request
ed Mr. Morrison to look into the gaso.
line situation with a view to further
prosecutions. Mr. Morrison is
thoroughly familiar with the Standard
OH litigation and aided the depart
ment in the prosecution of the disso
lution suit.
BATTLESHIPS IN COLLISION
DURING MANOEUVRES.
TO INCORPORATE ACADEMY
OF ARTS AND LETTERS.
Bill Which Opponents Say Will Create
Fifty Immortals Passes House.
Washington, April 13. The hard
fought bill Incorporating the Ameri
can Academy of Arts and Letters, and
numbering President Wilson, Theodore
Roosovelt and forty-eight others among
its charter members, was passed by
the house today and now goes to the
president for approval. Its opponents
charged its purpose was to create fifty
"Immortals," while Its supporters
maintain its sola object is to further
art and literature in America,
Losses of Livestock From Disease and
Exposure.
Washington, April 13. -Losses of
livestock from" disease and exposure
during; last year were moderately
smaller than the ten year average of
such losses, end the condition of ani
mals on April 1, was slightly better
than average, the department of ag
riculture announoed todag.
Neither the Michigan Nor South Car
olina Were Seriously Damaged.
"Washington, April 13. A collision
vesterday afternoon between the bat
tleships Michigan and South Carolina,
In which neither ship was seriously
damaged and no one hurt. was re
ported today by Admiral Fletcher.
While the fleet was steaming north
from GuantariamOj Admiral Fletch
er said, the two battleships "Came In
contact during manoeucres. Both are
proceeding under their own steam.
To V.'ithr-oM British AH.
"They were ca'-ef-;!, V.-v-n r
dvi:fnT the pprpiry !''r,-lotion. not
orlv to avoid rtiy definition wW"h
onM imnoce enemv it? non rll
ops of enrmv ratloaty and a-
ocnons; p7t r'o to Tn're poTer et
dt-riminntion wh'ch wot'r enable
frn to aprtlv nure'v cnw"ir!nl r--.rir-'ions
cont-mn'-ited onlv In rcrnrd
tr thrrp per"on irri wTem i Vl
n.ncpcff,.-v in T? r ro1 i f TVith-
botd h" facilities afforded by British
resources.
R'rjhts of Belligerents.
"TT!s MrHsty's trovemrnent bav
1 r-eT-rfri'-e .-ntn!ned fon"i a cotir of
action adminin'v T-i,vln thr r1
as rr'Hgercns wiich is not on'" the
exlstinl) practice of the Fen-h
f-ovorrmen'. bMt In stHrt accn-vlnee
with th dor-tr'ne onenlv aiwpfl bv
mapv other rtMpi to be tKe beis up
on which their tratnc wifh tho oy.
mv ren'ations would be founded In
'bo pvnt of war and hnvo confined
thorriKelvei to p?SFlng a piece of tmr
Iv domestic legislation rnnonrprin?
'hem to restrict the ncti-itles and
tr-ide of rerfions under Bri'lT juris
diction In such a manner and to such
an extpnt as mav spm to them to be
necessary in the national interest.
Rinhts of American Citizens.
"His Majestv's government rpadlly
admits the ric-ht of persons of any
r.-itlora'.ity resident In thp T. nlted
States to enrrterp In legitimate com
mercial transactions with any othet
persons. Thev cannot admit. how-
over, that this right can In anv way
limit the right of other governments
to restrict the commercial activities
of their national in any manner which
may seem desirable tothem by the Im
position of provisions and penalties
which are operative solely upon per
sons under their jurisdiction.
In claiming this riht which ap
pears to them to be Inherent In sov
ereignty and national Independence,
His MalPsty s government nesire to
assure the United States that they
will exercise it with every possible
care to avoid Injury to neutral com
merce nnd they venture to thlnlt that
the voluntary limitation of their pow
ers by the terms of the trading with
the enemy extension of powprsl act.
1915. Is evidence of their desire and
Intention to act with the greatest pos
sible consideration for neutral interests."
American torpedo boat destroyers
aro patr.iHing thp Phil:pnine coists. in
quiring the identity and oil info.-rrn-tion
recp.rdinc thr coartwi3e and
other vessels undr way.
Minority members of the houp na
val ccr.tmittop, rr.-r -v:-in.it the ar
mor pi-it-? p! -nt bi"l. The majority
h:is rTntrmM'lf 1 p:-s-jce. The sen
ate alrrady has parsed it.
Jit-re Andrevs in sunreme court
at fyr-ctip. X. Y.. granted Col. Theo
dore Poorevrlt on extension of t me
tinti' Jue 1, for the rrennmt'on of
th2 record in the appeal taken him.
A dr:ft of ynung people from the
l-iTit rtitrif n to th cities threatens
th" Mfe of rrinny country churches, no-
ht-, ! cording- to reno-ts y?'.m!ttfl to the
Troy, jietnor.i:t conference.
CREW DEMANDED
ASSURANCE OF SAFETY AT SEA
Delayed Sailing of Steamer Ryndam
of Holland-American Line.
New York .April 13. The Holland
American Line steamship Ryndam.
which has been held in Rotterdam for
ten days over her announced sailing
date by reason of a strike of her crew,
will leace that port tomorrow for New
York, according to a cablegram re
ceived by agents of the line here today,
The strike of the crew was brought
about bv their demand that thn Dutch
government assure their safety at aea- given as 30,008.
LATE SENATOR ALDRICH'S
ESTATE ESTIMATED AT 5,685,00a
Vaiue Disclosed in Application for Ex
emption from Transfer Tax,
Xew York. April 13. The estate t
the late I'nited States Senator Nelson
W. Aldrich of Rhode Island, who died
April 16, 1915. -was estimated here to
day to be worth approximately $5,
S&i.OiO. Kdn-ard H. Aldrich. a son. who
is executor of the estate, disclosed
this information In a statement to the
surrogate in an application to have the
property in this state exempted from
the transfer tax. The surrogate held,
however, that property to the amount
of $51,2."0. including a steam yacht
owned by Senator Aldrich and sold
here, was subject to taxation.
The estimate of tho estate made by
Vflw-arA T ' 1 ,1 - i V. . 1 1
T - . ... ...... . . , , a n
I'O CO.i-CtlOn Of I ITWKvanrp. Pn.l .-... In T V. ...I T , i a . y-
bronres Is said to be excelled only by 1 n.cticut. JM-.i;o: bonds in corpora
tn. fcpa.d.ng collection in the Victoria ti. ns. J?f 0.214: personal rroocrtv irj
and Albert museum In London. It
the late ilr. i:org;u ttn je&rs to com-t 14: accounts receibavle. 300.154. and
P ote it. The collections of enamels stocks in corporations, 3.932.8S
and majolica.- are regarded as the I
announced today to a firm of 1- ifth ave
nue art dea.ers for J4,0"O.ft)0. The
transaction included the Renaissance
bronzes, 20n pit-ct-s. the Limoges enam
els. 150 pieces, and the Ita.ian ma
jolicas. 1Z0 pieces.
J.ore tnan jU5.00n.Opn olre-v hn
been realized by sales from the Mor
gan collection, the bu!k of which still
is on view at the Metropolitan Mu
seum of Art. It Is reported in art
circles that the purchasers were act
ing not as ac,-n:s but as s-rx-c tlmors.
nntst In the world.
COMMITTEE REPORT READY
ON CONTEMPT PROCEEDINGS
Said to Recommend That U. S. At
torney Marshall be Cited for Trial.
Y.'ashington. April 13. The select
con-.iiiiitee of the Iioufc n-i:-n-d to d-.-t'-rm.iie
whether the crit.ci.-L-i.i of a
judiciary sub-commit te- by l"nti
States Attorney Marshall of ,e.v
York warrant i:;.titui.iig cor.temp: j ro-ccedinit-s
will report tomorrow. A re
port said to recommend that Mr.
Alarfhail le cited f ir c-ntempt was
sK-m-d today by all the five m mbers
f the conmii tve. It is un.lor-iool
thai it contains no recommen la: .or.s
regarding tho pn:l-y if y.T. Marslia.l
.-iiauid be f jund -u:'ty. The coniii.it
lee declined to discuss th-ir findings.
WOULD USE TENT
FCR FUP.NISHED ROOMS
Bridgeport Man Applied to Building
Commissioners for Permit.
Erfwm F. Sweet, assistant seretry I Bridgeport. Conn.
of commorce. who has Jut returr"d J Griflin of th!s city
to v.as! infton Iron a vtsit to the
Greit I a'.:e, predicted the greatest
season in history for those waters.
Holland will Intnort from America
April Tl. TUcks
atto'led to toe
building ccmm::sioners totlay for tcr-
m.sFion to erect a big tent on his
prv-pcrty on the Huntington I; ad. to
be used and rented out as furtii hed
rooms. Because of the fire risk the
tbi.s year l.lSOOOu tons of maize and ; commissioners declined to act. and
14ft poo tons of rye if Great Britain ! GnlTin wiil apply to the city council
wi'l allow the enlargement or the ' on .Monday evening next.
present import si':ply from 75,000 tons
a month to 110,000 tons.
A huge mass of earth and rocks
p'untrcd i'own the Palisades in New
Jersey. The noise of the avalanche
alarmed resi nts in Jersey City, Wee
hawken and Hoboken. but no one is
known to have been hurt.
The steamer Vallona has arrived at
Earce'ona with five officers and twen-tv-one
members of the crew of the
British steamer Angus, which was tor
pedoed. The fate of the remainder
of the crew is not known.
While playing in the street near his
home In New Britain yesterday, Clar
ence Gustafson. 7 years old. was struck
by an automobile driven by O. Burt
one Cas" of Hartford and ro badly
Injured that he died soon afterwards.
MEXICANS DISARMED
BY UNITED STATE8 FORCES
Along the American Line of March In
Mexico.
Columbus, N. M, April 13. Mhny
Mexicans along the American line of
march in Mexico have been disarmed
by the United States forces, according
to arrivals at the border tonight.
General J. J. Pershing, It was said,
regarded thl sstep as necessary to the
protection of his command since he
has received information that mem
bers of Villa's scattered followers ara
infesting the route. Colonel Dublan
Is being made the most important bf
the long chain of bases in Mexico the
arrivals said. Some have dug cir
cular trenches. In them are conceal
ed machine gun batteries.
The Mexicans estimate of the num
ber of American, troops in Mexico waa
urit;in s idea is to build a big fnt
on a wooden floor supported by s'iV-s.
1 wouiJ be divided into a'out a !oz
en rooms and rented to men during
the warm weather.
CONGRESS WOULD OPPOSE
WITHDRAWAL OF TROOPS.
Until They Have Accomplished Cap
ture of Villa.
Washington. April 13. Tonight
ther" had been no opportunity for a
oirvass in cor:res5, but It waa evi
dent that, having un.Tnimousy ap
proved by resolution the pending of
troopi Into Mexico for the caoture of
the Villa bandits. It would sharply op-
poe tnnr wirhdrawal wrhout the ac- .
complirhmort of their object. There
now, hrwpvor, no indication that
the arl ministration has any such in
tention.
The president announced when the
troops were despatched ht they were
sent vrh the S!r.-t"e object of cap
turing Viila and pu.ting a stop to fcls
fonvs.
"IVis ran and will be done," fha
rre-ll'nt then declared, "in entirely
frier. ",;y aid to the cons'ltuted au
thorities in ?'er;fco and with scrupu
lous rrect for the sovereignty of that
republic."
There was no Indication tonight
that the president had changed his
mind.
ALL-ALASKA SWEEPSTAKE!
RACE FOR DOGS
A 13 year old boy whose name was
not given was recaptured by trusties j 31.
after he had escaped from the Aew
J ork Juvenile asylum at Dobbs Ferry.
The boy fired on his pursuers with a
pistol he had obtained, but hit no one.
BRITISH BARK INVEHLYCN
SUNK BY SUBMARINE
Lloyds Reports That Tvelve Men of
Her Crew Were Picked Up.
London. April 13. 7.20 p. m. The
British bark Inverlyon has been surk
by a submarine, according to a re nor
received by Lloyds. Twelve men o
the crew were picked up.
The Inverlyon was a vessel of 1.S27
tons and was built in 1"04. Her home
port was Aberdeen. The bark sailed
from Portland. Oregon, Dec. 7. for
Havre or Bordeaux was last reported
as leaving St. Michael. Azores. March
Fred Mann, 7 years old, was killed
by nn automobile driven by Harry 11.
How land cf Greenwich. He was cross
ing the street whn the machine struck
him. fracturing the skull. Howland
was arrested, charged with reckless
driving.
Dr. Emmerich Ritter, discoverer of
liquid fire, former German confidential
agent, serving a term ln the Ohio state
penitentiary at Columbus, was granted
permission by Warden Thomas to man
ufacture dyes by a secret German
process.
President J. J. Stanley of the Cleve
land Railway company, ignored a doz
en demands of street car employes and
sent them a counter proposal in which
he asked for an open shop where both
union and non-union employes work
under the sam econditions.
William E. Luke, aged 24. of Brook
lyn, civil engineer, employed by the
Central Railroad of. New Jersey, died
at Allentown, Pa, of injuries received
when he was stabbed at South Bethle
hem on March 11 after an argument
over tft pa aasluu of a seat.
STOCKS DISTURBED BY
INTERNATIONAL SITUATION,
Mexican Issues Are the First to Yield
Before Latest Aspects.
New York. April 13. Stocks were
visibly disturbed today over the latest
aspects of the International situation.
ror the first time ln several weeks
liquidation waa aeen in all parts of
the list.
Mexican issues, particularly Mexican
Petroleum and American Smelting.
were among the first to yield, those
stocks declining two to "four points
before midday. Later the munition's
group and similar specialties began to
lose ground.
Weakness of TTnlted States Steel,
which assumed Its former leadership
as the most active stock, was among
the disconcerting features. Steel was
steadily pressed for site, withstood the
early movement, but began to fall back
later.
Movements of Steamships.
Kirkwall. April 11. Sailed, steamer
Hellig Olav (from Copenhagen), New
York.
New York. April IS Arrived
steamer St- Paul, Livcerpool.
Siberian Wolf Dons Which Won Last
Year Are in the Lead.
Nome, Alaslcn, April 13. Leonard
Seppjla, driving the team of 17 Si
berian wolf d- g. wtth which he won
last year s race, was in the lead early
today ln the 412 -mile all-Alaska
swecpst ikes, having reached Candle,
20S miles from Nome, and the point
h' th" racers turn back. The five
other drivers were somwhere along
the trail enrlv today bound for Can
dle, all clcsesly bunched.
FIVE BOX CARS GO DOWN
FIFTY-FOOT EMBANKMENT
Derailed by a Fallen Brake Beam
South of Lime Rock.
Lime Rock. Conn, Sept. 13. Fiva
box cars of a south bound freight train
on the New York. New Haven and
Hartford railroad, derailing by a fall
en brake beam, pitched down a 50-foot
embankment just south of hero early
tou:iy. A sixth car also left the rails
but remained on the roadbed. Traffic
was delayed for several hours. No one
was Injured.
HELD IN BAIL OF f1,500
ON CHARGE OF BIGAMY
John Arthur Hamlin of Bridgeport
Admits Having Two Wives.
Bridgeport. Conn, April 13. John
Arthur Hamlin, aged 3u. a carnival
promoter, was held in I ail of ILiCO
for a hearing in the city court to
morrow, on the charge of bigamy,
when arraigned before Judge F. A.
Bartlett today. Hamlin admits having
a wife ln TJownlngton. Pa, and another
ln this city, whom he married' within
a year.
FOUND BANK LOOT
IN FARMER'S HOUSE '
Sequel to Robbery cf First National
. Bank of Houston, Pa.
Pittsburgh, Ta, April IS. Detectives
searching the house of Thomas H.
Talbot, a Kusselton farmer, arrested
last night in connection with the rob
r-ry of the First National bank of
Houston. Pa, last week, announced
today that they had recovered a large
part of the loot.
.... ti ...l..4ft.'.;-,Httit1.V.db.-
