, . . - " -";
What is Best for Maui
is Best for the News
If you wish Prosperity
Advertise in the News
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., FRIDAY, APRIL 14. 1916.
NUMBER 8
Filipino Kills One
AndWoundsAnother
Quarrel Over Woman Leads to Brutal
Murder In Waikapu Camp
Woman Shot But Will Recover
Nareiso Toyolo, a Filipino laborer
of the Wailuku Sugar Company, and a
member of the National Guard, shot
and instantly killed another Filipino
named Alfonso Darlang, in the Fili
pino camp, some three miles beyond
Waikapu, shortly after 7 o'clock Inst
Sunday morning. Ho after surrender
ed to the police, and will be tried for
first degree murder.
Besides killing his fellowcountry
man, Toyolo first fired a shot from a
38 calibre revolver at Mrs. Maria Rofi
no Bagoa, of whom he was jealous, in
flicting a flesh wound in the right
breast. The bullet, however, was de
flected by a rib, and came out of the
woman's back. She is in the Malulani
hospital, but is not seriously hurt.
According to the police, the murder
was a premeditated and cold-blooded
one. The murderer and his victim bad
quarreled about the woman the previ
ous night. She is a married woman,
living with her husband in the camp,
and seems to have been involved with
both Toyolo and Darlang. After the
quarrel, in which the husband was al
so Involved, Toyolo went to a friend
and borrowed a heavy, army pattern
Colt revolver, stating that he expected
to go the following morning to Malaa
ea to get into a gambling game, and
might need It. Instead he met Darlang
and other Filipinos on Sunday morn
ing, all preparing to attend national
guard drill. He pretended to want to
settle the trouble amicably, and sent
for the woman in the case. As soon
as she arrived, he fired at her, as she
sat on one end of a bench, and then
turned the gun upon Darlang, who
was also seated nearby.
The murderer proceeded towards
the main road, and when he met the
police automobile, surrendered him
self. When searched, besides the re
volver, a murderous-looking dagger
of copper was found on, his person.
Another Town Clock
Poem Comes To Light
Editor Maui News,
Dear Sir: In your Issue of March
24th, I read your town clock by Jack
Rivers, and It brought to my mind a
piece that was written about 33 years
ago, and was published In Honolulu,
but by what paper I do not know, but
I thought I would sent a copy of it
to you for publication, and you would
see what the sentiment was at that
time. There are very few people here
that can remember it now, on Maui.
But about dozen at most. I think
the two would both go together,
Respt. Yours,
GEO. GROVES.
Keanae, Maui, April 11, 1916
A Legend Of The Wailuku Clock
The hour was just past midnight
I'd been keeping the "Fourth of July,"
My brain just a little bit cloudy,
My throat a little bit dry,
I stopped in the street near the town
clock
From my flask I took the last "fid,"
And then I'll be truthful and honest,
I dou't know just what I did.
But there the old clock stood before
me,
It had slid to the ground on a board,
It hailed me as "jolly good fellow,"
And seemed as drunk as a lord.
It said "I will tell you a secret,
I know it's a common belief
By the folks in honest Wailuku
That I always lie like a thief."
I was made by the honest Seth
Thomas,
The Connecticut sun would not rise.
Unless one of my far-away brothers.
Should tip the wink to the skies.
But he who winds me is fickle,
What he wants I never can know,
He runs me fast for a fortnight,
And then for a month runs me slow.
Each ship that comes to our harbor,
Gives him a meridian new,
They vary from a half to a quarter,
Now what can a honest clock do?
He says I must run by the "Thomp
son," And no man shall touch me in town,
Then he goes to disenthron Gibson,
And leaves me alone to run down.
He writes of other folks failings,
He speaks of their faults with a groan,
Does he ever pause to consider,
The few he has of his own?
He sighs o'er an age that is truthless
O'er the world's mighty increase of
crime
Forgetting this one little item
Wailuku would like the right time.
Now I leave it you now as a brother,
Is it not more honest and true,
For one to strive to accomplish,
The little his hands find to do.
And won't it bring more solid comfort
More shining gold to the till
Than to hunger and thirst for position
The Lord never meant us to fill.
GRANDFATHER'S CLOCK
Pinkham Democrats
To Close Campaign
McCandless Faction Kick Largely On
Patronage Grounds Party Elec
tion Tomorrow Night
"Out with rinkham We want the
jobs!" was in effect the slogan of the
McCandless-Wilson-Pacheco meeting
held at the Valley Isle theatre in Wai
luku, last Saturday night. The meet
ing was well attended, and the crowd
was entertained with moving pictures
during the breathing spells between
the various speeches. The McCand
less faction of the party, at this meet
ing, laid great stress upon the fact
that Finkham has failed to fill up the
public ollices in the territory with the
faithful and hungry democrats. Illus
trations were cited throughout the
territory in general and on Maui in
particular. The appointment of V. C.
Sehoenberg, a republican, to fill the
vacancy in the ollice of circuit court
clerk, was referred to as the most
recent treachery of the administration
to the democratic party.
Pinkhamites Tonight
The Pinkham wing of the party on
Maui will hold a meeting at the Val
ley Isle, this evening, to be addressed
by Dr. Raymond, W. J. Coelho, and
others. This meeting will be begun
early, and the speakers will then be
rushed to Lahaina for another meet
ing. This will be the concluding gun in
the heavy artillery duel preceding the
infantry charge to the polls tomorrow
evening, when the matter of the de
legateship to the St. Louis convention
will be decided. Both sides are claim
ing a sure victory though from the
lineup of the democratic leaders a
mong the Hawaiians it looks rather
as though the administration faction
has a slight lead, in spite of the
powerful argument of McCandless an
ent the jobs that the faithful havn't
got. The voUng will take place
throughout the territory between 5
and 8:30 p. m., and on this island
will be conducted with regular printed
ballots, and along regular election
lines.
Lahaina Band Has
MadeGood Start
Promiment West Maui People Back
of Enterprise Concert For In
strument Fund to Be Given
For the purpose of raising a fund
to defray the coast of necessary in
struments, the recently organized La
haina Band is planning to give a con
cert and entertainment at the Pioneer
theater on Saturday, May 6. The
band is already making good music
under the direction of Director Lowell
K. Kapau, but is working under the
handicap of insufficient . instruments
and of not owning those that it Is
using.
The people of Lahaina are much in
terested in peeing that the hand is
made a success, and to that end have
formed an association which will have
the direction of the property and fi
nances of the musicians. The follow
ing officers have been choked for this
association: L. YVeinzheimer, presi
dent: John Fierce, vice-president; J
M. Ambrose, secretary; F. N. Lufkini
treasurer; W. H. Young, auditor;
Edw. Waiaholo, Antone Furtado. C.
K. Farden, and George Freeland, direc
tors. Mr. Kapau, who has undertaken the
organization and direction of the band,
has been a resident of Lahaina for
several months. He was for about 15
years connected with the Honolulu
Hawaiian Band, under Berger. The
members of the band at present are
Daniel Fierce Mr. Enos, Tom Medei
ros, Sam Ako, Johnny Nunes, Adam
Pall, G. Keanini, Kila Kalua, D. Likua,
H. Liwai, J. Teixeira, Ben Ricard, D.
Eldrige, S. Koko, John Brown, Jr.,
J. Opupele, Fred Martinsen, i Moses
Kauhaahan, Paul , Joe Hooulu,
and Lowell K. Kupau.
"d-
HIGH SCHOOL HONORS
FOR LAST TERM
The following were the honors
students in their respective classes in
the Maui High School during last
term:
Senior Class Herbert Wells, 93;
Annie Walker, 93; Junior Class
Virginia McConkey, 92; Constance
Rose, 91; Sophomore Class Oishi
Crockett, 91: Irene Wells. 90: Fresh
menScott Nicoll, 92; Lillian Tavares,
92; Eighth Grade Nils Tavares.'jO;
Ruth Lindsay, 90; Seventh Grade
Norman Wells, 99; Edward Baldwin,
91; Sixth Grade Helen Howell, 94;
William Mountcastle, 92.
On account of the big storm which
prevented the school train from run
ning for two days there were only
two pupils in the entire school present
every day of the term. Thelma and
Sevelh Boyum.
Honolulu Polo Men
Already At Work
Ponies Being Tried Out For Tourna
ment Next Fall Indications Oahu
Believes In Early Preparedness
While it is a far cry to the annual
Hawaiian polo championship, interest
is already being shown by the players
and public and Indications point to the
coming tournament being one of the
best ever held in the islands. This will
be due to the fact that the players will
start training much earlier nnd also
from the fact that the mounts will be
given a better workout than before
and because much of the green timber
introduced last year has had much
careful schooling under the careful
eye of the trainers. This applies par
ticularly to the horses belonging to
the members of the Oahu Four.
Hannon a Busy Man
Peter Hannon one of America's
greatest polo pony conditioners has a
fine string of ponies under his care at
Moanalua and these horses are being
put through the polo stunts almost
every afternoon. Several of them are
also in pasture, but at the right time
will be brought to the stables and put
in condition.
Much is expected of the three greys
purchased by Walter F. Dillingham
from the McKettrick Ranch at Bakers
field, California, for the work of last
year and the training since then has
greatly developed these ponies. Each
of them is a solidly built and clear
lined animal and each shows rare in
telligence. These three, In and Out,
a big light grey, Quick Silver a four
year old and Grey Dawn, showed
enough last year to warrant their be
ing further schooled for polo.
Faithful Helen C.
Of course the old reliables Helen C
and Jennie C. will be in the tourna
ment. The former is hailed as the
Queen of the turf and does not know
what it feels like to be passed on a
polo field. As a matter of fact she is
rated the best polo pony in the world
today, bar none.
On two occasions Helen C. has been
used in the International matches
along with Carry the News, another
Hawaiian horse through the courtes
ies of their owners.
Other likely timber to be used in
the coming tournament is Te Toot, a
buggy horse picked up by Peter Han
non during a trip to the Coast a
couple of years ago. Kaiulani, a half
sister to the famous Helen C. and
sired by the famous Ben Magee', Lei
hulu, rated the prettiest filly on the
Islands and possessed of a rare turn
of speed, Kilauea Pupu, a Yellow tail
colt owned by Walter Macfarlnne,
Gold Dust, a New York gelding which
has played in the International games
and which is rated as one of the hard
est riding off horses in the annals of
the sport, M. R. a Horner ranch horse
in the game for years and that grand
old campaigner. Grandma Bess. Ad
vertiser. Poultry Fanciers To
Form Association
The suggestion in last week's Maui
News that an organization of poultry
raisers on Maui would be a good thing,
has brought an immediate response,
together with a call for a meeting of
such persons interested in order that
the matter may be further discussed.
The meeting is to be held at the of
fice of Paul F. Lada, Wailuku, at 10
o'clock next Thursday morning, April
20. The following letter has been
received from an enthusiast, com
mending the idea, and announcing the
meeting:
Editor Maui News:
I noticed in last week's issue of
your valuable paper, an editorial sug
gesting that those interested in poult
ry culture "get together" for forming
a "Maui Poultry Association."
I am heartily in favor of such a
movement, believing that it would be
of great value and assistance to our
poultry keepers and fanciers.
Having talked with several promi
nent poultry fanciers, who are all
enthusiastic with the idea of forming
some such an association, I would sug
gest that all those interested in form
ing a "Poultry Association," or as has
been suggested, a "Poultry and Dom
estic Pet Association," meet at the of
fice of Paul F. Lada (The Hugh How
ell Construction Co.'s ollice), Wailuku,
on Thursday the 20th inst. at 10 o'
clock A. M., for considering the organ
ization of such an Association.
Yours very truly,
r.
Wailuku, April 12, 191G.
MISSIONARY SOCIETY
ELECTS OFFICERS
At the annual meeting of the Wo
man's Missionary Society of the Paia
Union Church, held last Tuesday, the
following olticrrs were elected: Mrs.
II. P. Baldwin, president; Mrs. A.
Craig Bowdish, 1st vice-president;
Mrs. Grace P. Haven. 2nd vice-president;
Mrs. W. O. Aiken, secretary;
Miss Harriet Lay, treasurer.
Outlook For Great
Baseball Is Good
1st. Battalion Enters Teams llopos
That Lahaina May Come in
Series Will Begin in Few Weeks
There will be three teams, nnd per
haps four in the senior league series
this year. A strong desire to have I,a
bnina enter a team may result in this
being accomplished, provided the
problem of transportation can be met.
Also if the Iong-tnlked-of athletic park
for Lahaina materializes, the problem
will bo materially simplified.
At n meeting of the Maui Athletic
Association held last Tuesday evening,
two teams were definitely entered.
One of these is the Paia team, under
the management of John M. Medeiros.
which holds a leg on the famous Ray
mond cup, and the other will be known
as the 1st Battalion, Maui National
Guard team, with George H. Cum
tilings, as manager. It is assured that
Puunene will also have a team in the
league, though through oversight the
entry of such team was not formally
made at the meeting.
As soon as the league can be defin
itely organized, the managers will get
together and arrange the schedule for
the season. It seems probable that
the opening of the series will be ear
ly in May.
The outlook is for some exceptional
ly good baseball for the coming sum
mer. The entrance into the contest of
a national guard team promises to add
interest to the series. It will of
course take the place of the usual
Wailuku team, and Manager Cum
mings claims that he has some fine
material this year to work with.
The contest will have especial in
terest from the fact that the Raymond
cup, has been contested for, for over
ten years, without ever having been
won twice by the same team. The
Paia organization is a strong one and
will doubtless make a desperate effort
to win the cup for keeps this year.
Supreme Court Upholds
Maui Automobile Law
The test case of the new automobile
ordinance, brought against W. H.
Field, which was carried to the sup
reme court, was decided last Friday
by the higher tribunal in favor of the
county, thus affirming the findings of
Distric Magistrate McKay. The plain
tiff sought to show that the ordinance
requiring drivers of automobiles to be
reexamined as to their qualification,
and to pay another fee, was unsound
law.
The court failed to pass on the
points raised by the defendant-appellant
as to the constitutionality of the
sections involved, on the grofinds that
his rights were not affected by same;
and it is further held that the provis
ions of the ordinance relating to the
registration of motor vehicles and the
certification of chauffeurs does not
constitute a prohibition of the operat
ion of such vehicles on the public
roads, but is a reasonable regulation
made in the exercise of the police
power.
The case was one in which a large
number of automobile owners holding
licenses under previous ordinances,
were concerned, and the result of the
test case was a matter of considerable
interest. It was stated by Attornev
Enos Vincent, who with D. II. Case
represented Field in the matter, that
another case will probably be taken
to the supreme court to test the sec
tions on which the court refused to
pass in the Field case on the grounds
that his interests had not been affect,
ed. The case was argued before the
supreme court on April 7th, County
Attorney E. R. Bevins appearing for
the Territory in the matter.
Farmers And Packers
Approaching Agreement
A feeling of optimism exists just
now in the pineapple district, owing
to the prospect, of much better prices
for the product during the next year.
It is reported that a number of recent
sales made by local packers have
been at a marked advance, and the
companies expect the demand to re
sult in still better figures. The grow
ers have been assured of not less
than $15 per ton for the present seas
on's crop, and a form of contract is
being considered which it Is believed
will lie fair to both packer and grow
er. A special meeting of the Haiku
Fanners' Association was held last
night at the Kuiaha school house to
discuss the matter, the result of
which will probably be that most of
the homesteaders will accept the
contracts nnd plant more or less ex
tensively this year. The contracts
will be for a period of 4 years, or the
period of one plaining.
WILSON PUTS SUSSEX
ISSUE UP TO PEOPLE
Grave Crisis As Result Of Germany's Attitude
Chase For Villa Thwarted By Carranza
Struggle Around Verdun Still Goes On
HONOLULU, April 14 Sussex sinking lias local angle. V. A.
T.ccr, living here, received word that his mother and father were on
l-ard when vessel was torpedoed. They were saved, however.
Japanese papers here revive question of higher wages. Oriental
plantation hands are urged to demand more money from planters.
They say Americanization makes living higljer. Editors say large
sugar profits, due to the war, should make better pay.
Shoe dealers in Hawaii are expecting a further advance in prices.
Tanneries have run short of leather, making plain shoes high and
scarcity of dyes since war, makes colored apparel expensive.
Sam Kcllinoi, statistician for road department asked to resign.
City engineer says he docs not statisticize fast enough.
WASHINGTON, April A Sussex incident brings about an acute
crisis. Note to Berlin in response to the one disclaiming all responsib
ility for crippling of the Sussex, is a sharp one. Washington demands
iiiiick reparation. Insists Germany must admit vessel was raided.
Evidence given by testimony of American passengers seems conclusive.
It was learned last night that the President intends to call meeting of
cabinet this morning to take up question. President puts question up
to people. Asks Americans if they are willing to go if last great sac
rifice is asked of them, and if they are willing to withdraw when service
to humanity is finished.
Villa chase is lost through demands of Carranza. Request by note
to President that troops be withdrawn from Mexico, believed in Wash
ington to veil some threat. At Parral, greasers shot at American
troopers, who returned fire. One man killed. Mexicans seem to be hun-t
ing trouble.
TOKIO, April 1-1 Russo-Japanese treaty alarms all north China.
Reports that Japan is given control in far East stirs Peking press.
Tokio believes President Yuan is near end of his rope as official. Idea
of intervention is scouted by well informed persons in Tokio.
LONDON, April 1-1 Rain halts fight on Verdun front. Even
artillery of opposing forces is hampered by heavy gale. Infantry doing
little.
WASHINGTON April 1-4 Senators Borah and Stone are urging
bigger United States navy. Would built up fleet at expense of army.
Advocate creating ?f reasonable standing a,rmy. Urge immediate
construction of big navy.
LONDON, April IA Britons settles packers' dispute. Chandeler
Anderson, American representative, says British government will settle
for cargoes of meat and packing products seized over a month ago.
BERLIN, April 14 -Reported here several Portuguese provinces
have revolted against a republican government.
TOKIO, April 1-1 Revolutionists bombarded and captured the
eitidel of Shanghai yesterday.
SAN ANTONIO. April 13 American soldiers have encountered
and exchanged shots with either Carranza soldiers or civilians at
Parral, Consul Letcher reported; but General Guiterriez the Mexican
commander, minimizes the ocurrences. Americans went through Par
ral to the south, exchanging sh ts with the attacking Mexicans.
WASHINGTON. April 13 Gen. Venustiano. considers that Car
rat.a s new note presents grave issue.
TORREON, Mexico, April 13 General Arilla today reported
headed down in the direction of Nazas, where the followers of Ceni
ceros are marauding.
MANILA, April 13 American destroyers are patroling the coast
of Luzon and other waters and inquiring as to the identity of vessels
passing from place to place. Object is to watch Germans to stop escape
into the Philippines.
SHANGHAI April 13 Governor of Kiangsi has declared his in
dependence of Vuan's government. Tong Shokuei, representing Lung
Ouang, the governor Wang Kuang Ling, chief of police, and Nkok
Tun, another revolutionary leader have been assassinated, while attend
ing a military conference in Canton. Sze Chucn province is expected
to announce its independence.
HONOLULU April 13 Makee side of controversy is given by
W ilcox. Manager declares small planters are satisfied and facilities
good. Thinks Kcalia is natural outlet for Kapaa fields. Shows rail"
road development.
Oil poured on raging seas to save Ide Maru. Master of the Kat
suda Shokai freighter Ide Maru tell how vessel reached here with jury
rudder. Thirty-seven days of toil after storm disabled craft. Steamer
is guarding against spies as cargo is part munitions.
Rumor that lxeliinoi is ousted from road position.
Ardeco, brought from coast by Detective McDuffy on several
charges of embezzlement, pleaded not guilty in police court. McDuffy
says the Eilipino admitted embezzlement, but in court he doesn't.
HONOLULU, April 13 Chamber of commerce of the United
States predicts another big war. Asks Honolulu chamber to cooperate
in asking the L'nitcd States to further trade relations between the Unit
ed States and other countries.
Honolulu chamber of commerce will vote on policy of "resale
prices" in local stores. W ill consider abolition under national referen
dum. Matter is of such importance that it will come before open meet
ing. McCandless wing of bourbons gets upper hand. Democrats on
other islands believe Governor's party will have land-slide.
Pretty little Japanese maid killed at Waipahu on Sunday. Father
was arrested and admitted guilt. Jealousy said to be cause.
CITY OF MEXICO, April 13 Carranza has forwarded to state
department a note asking for the withdrawal of American troops from
Mexico immediately. Action of Carranza has been expected for several
days.
Tension throughout entire country due to Americans being in
country is bitter among Carranzistas and Americans alike.
SAN DIEGO, April 13 Villa has slipped past Pershing's troops.
Has doubled on his trail and eluded pursuers. Is moving towards
border and has destroyed Yankee property enroute. War department
hears many reports of outlaw's actions. Failure of expedition will
(Continued on Page Five.)
