3FSW&it"-
He&rier
POSTSCRIPT
EDITION
POSTSCRIPT
EDITION;
ituemng
4 t
VOL. II. NO. 183
PHILADELPHIA, 3T11IDAY, APRIL 14, 1916.
Coriuoni. 1819, it tbi Pciuo Lioui CouriNt.
PBIOB OITE CENT?
WILSON DECIDES
! U-BOAT COURSE;
'. NO MORE DELAY
r i
Announcement of Policy to
Be Made Within Next
48 Hours
DRASTIC NOTE LIKELY
Not Apt to Concede Berlin Sug
gestion of Mixed Arbi
tral Board
WASHINGTON, April 14. "Only
a miracle can prevent an open break
with Germany. The United States is
ready to act in behalf of the rights of
neutral nations, Prtsulont Wilson is
convinced that promises made in good
fafth by Count von Bcrnstorff, the
Gcfmnn Ambassador, have been ruth
lessly violated by the German Ad
miralty. The situation is far more
critical today than it over has been.
There Will be no more temporizing.
Action has been decided on, and that
action is merely being deferred from
day; to day until the case is complete."
The above statement was made to
day Uy one of the very few men who
know the mind of President Wilson.
It sums up the international situation
that today confronts the United
States. Although Mexico admittedly
is a real problem, the President be
lieves that it will yield to diplomatic
treatment. But the German subma
rine situation he is now convinced will
not. The attack on the chnnncl liner
Sussex, the President believes, was so
flagrant and unwarranted that it can
( nqt be excused. And the denial, the
text of which wns considered carefully
nt) today's Cabinet meeting, is declared
ihavc been "complete proof" that the
sscx was torpedoed without wnrn-
and is an "insult to the intel-
ence of a great nation."
WASHINGTON, April 14.
I'rcsident Wilson has determined upon
I courso of action to bo tnken by this
l-ornment towards Germany In the sub-
r)no Issue. Announcement of tho
llslon will 'bo mndo within 34 to 48
urs. This was tho stntofhent of a. high
fvernment olllela.1 today .Just before, tho
bljiet wenti Into ossloty
Ho would not comment on what form
lis Government's action would take, but
Is. deemed certain tho President will
hmand qn lmmedlato showdown without
hulvocatlon on the submarine Issue. Ho
I said to bo determined tho United States
mil liavo satisfaction, even nt the cost
severance o'f diplomatic relations.
It waB stated that this Government has
111 the facts necessary to sot forth Its
frisltlon and that there will bo no rur
Iier delay.
Tho Cabinet Is considering the Sussex
pply at today's sessions.
A mall pouch, upon the contents of
rhich may rest the future of German-
imerlcan relations, arrived In Now York
tho American liner St. Paul this morn-
he and was rushed hero on the earliest
Iain.
Tho pouch, forwarded from the Amerl-
m Embassy at London, contains full re-
orts from American naval attaches at
arts and London of the Sussex explo-
pon nnu nmuavits or American survivors.
SITUATION VERY GRAVE.
There is no attempt on the part of the
State Department to mlnlnze the tensity
If relations between tho United States and
Bermany.
If the United States should accent tho
3erman suggestion of a mixed oommls-
slot) to determine these questions of fact,
aspeclaly In the Sussex case. It was made
plain that this Inquiry would only be con
cerned with evidence as to whether the
Busses was actually struck by a German
Itorepod. Thqre would be no arbitration
at the question of the right of Americans
to bo aboard the channel packet.
BERLIN NOTE DEEMED WEAK.
The President and his advisers are said
to be convinced that he note, particularly
nsofar as it pertains tor the Sussex, is so
palpably weak that It serves no purpose
other than materially to strengthen the
position of thq" United States. It is con-
tended the only difference shown in tho
Sussex explosion and the mysterious
t'other boat" attacked by a German U-boat
at fie same time anct piaca lies in the
ketf-h made or the uerman victim by the
Continued on rage Vour, Column Fire
THE WEATHER
I Of all the good old second-reader
Igepds we hope will never die, commend
tnat one aoout King uanute (or Cnut,
(It is sometimes spelled, and obviously
elwas cnutty enough on his bad days),
fo Daae tpe tides or ocean stand back
m his royal beach-chair. Nevertheless,
I got his reel wet. Many a time have
I defied the rains ot heaven to descend;
manaeq mem 10 retrain irom spoiling
pleasure. Falling persistently, we
ied to fate, finally, and took to spoiling
ler people's pleasure by predicting rain.
i gets cynical anq-canous. arter predict
ion a number of times. Would you
Nvo It, there comes a time when it
1 ernes a positive ghoulish pleasure, to
tray in dismal diction the Inevitable
Inpours. Jtlght now- we see in our
I's eye the players wading about a
lond full of muddled pools,
specially does this mood come upon
vhen we can't go to the game our-
FOmCAST
lor rnuaaeipnia ana vicintfu
It this afternoon; fair tonight and
lirday; cooler tonight; strong west
is.
r details see gags 17,
X.OST AMD FOUND
PIM Leit. Itlpsdiv avenlnar. Anrll 11.
ween Pclievue-Slrtttforil ballroom and
brcroos a. ci-yipi uiainooa anu appmr
Din momuea la xuaunvm. newara if
jrntJ ioJ B Caldwell S Co. . (M Cheat
t QH m JUL. -Lost. n m. Aortl U. cor.
ftii'i Soruc ta mau Itoslon bull,
be acer to aama o( Cbaspy llswaro.
urn u 2Stt Plae gfc.
tost mi 1'iiUiil Ma a risi 17
mkmmMgmmsm
CONSUL MARION LETCHER
United States representative nt
Chihuahua City, who is in centre
of zone of possible trouble be
tween Mexican nnd American
forces. He is the only United
States Consul nt a post so far in
the interior who has stuck to his
place.
THREE MEN GAG, BEAT
AND ROB WOMAN; GET
EARRINGS AND CASH
Victim Knocked Unconscious,
After Which Culprits Ran
sack House
ENTER HOME BY RUSE
Threo nrmed men forced their way Into
tho homo of Mrs. Emilia Tnrsla, of 1934
South 19th street, today, and after bind
ing her hands and feet with rope, tore
her earrings off, took a roll of notes from
her clothing and beat her Into In
sensibility. Two of tho men then watched the
woman, while n third leisurely searched
tho house. ,
They rnnsacked every room completely,
In the evident search for savings which,
it was rumored, the woman had con
cealed somewhero In the house. After
gathering up Jewelry, .money and Bllver
wuro worth more thaj J100, the thieves
left the house- quietly, while tha wpman,
who returned to consciousness, was strug
gling to free herself on tht kitchen floor.
Mrs. Tarsia managed to remove b. gag
which her assailants had forced Into her
mouth by rolling on the floor. She cried
for help, but her cries were not heard.
Tho woman then removed tho rope which
bound her hands by rubbing the rope
over the edges of a coal scuttle. She
then crawled to tho backyard and shouted.
Mrs. Costcllo, a neighbor, heard her
shouts and after untying herhands In
formed passers-by, who summoned police
man Landy. He .sent the woman to St.
Agnes' Hospital. She was badly cut and
bruised and It Is believed that her skull
Is fractured. She was nble to give a good
description of tho thieves.
HEIRESS DDES IN CUBA
AFTER WILD LOVE RACE
WITH HER CHAUFFEUR
Grace McLaughlin, New York
Girl, Wed George M. Ste
vens Just Before She
Passed Away
MARRIAGE CALLED VOID
Three faded floral wreaths on an old
Cuban family vault In a Havana ceme
tery mark the last resting place of Grace
McLaughlin.
i Orace McLaughlin that was for she
took another name on her deathbed a
New York heiress, marked for death by
tuberculosis, who eloped with George M.
Stevens, a chauffeur, was trailed through
this city, where she stayed at the
Bellevue-Stratford, and finally went to
Havana,, to marry and die.
One of the three wreaths on. her. tomb
bears the Inscription "To Grace from
George.' Oeorge K. Stevens Is the man
whom her dying wish made her husband
in the eyes of (he church, but not in the
eyes ot the law. But George E, Stevens
is going to claim her estate, gossip in
Havana has it, and relatives In New York
expect It. Lawyers say the pair were
not married civilly, as Stevens' divorce
from his first wife does not become effect
ive until April 19.
Grace McLaughlin and Stevens were
married last Sunday by a dispensation
from the Catholic Bishop of Cuba, secured
when the case of the dying girl was
brought to his attention by Father
Mendez, who administered the last rites
for the dead qnly a few hours after he
performed the wedding ceremony.
The priest knew that the marriage
would not; be recognized in the courts.
But it was the Jas't plea of the girl, dying
In Vibora, a little suburb of Havana.
After the marriage, which was the long
sought goal of Grace McLaughlin, she
sank rapidly and died the next morning.
Bronchial pneumonia, caused hy tuber
culosls, caused her death. She was burled
Tuesday in the Colton Cemetery. The
mourners were her husband and a lew
Cuban friends. ,
In her will Irar-Stpvens left her J50,
000 estate to the man she believed was
her husband and to her aunt, Mrs. Cath
erine Ingles, of 4 West 129th street. New
York. It was made March 30 and filed
with Juan Carlos Andreu, a notary public
of Havana. Mr$. Stevens lived with her
aunt before her elopement.
The .story ot now Grace McLaughlin
eloped with Stevens, a Harlem chauffeur,
last January, has been told. She met him
while following her physician's Instruc
tions in taking long automobile rides for
the sake of the fresh air. She eloped with
him, knowing that he was securing a
divorce from his wife. The couple first
came to this city end made an attempt
to get married. But the laws of the.
Catholic Church, Miss Mclaughlin's faith,
Veallntii w Ftc .'. Oslmu m
SHARP MEXICAN
POLICY FAVORED
BY SENATORS
Canvass of Both Houses
Shows Sentiment Against
Withdrawal of Troops
PARTY SPLIT FEARED
Administration Plans to Curb
Debate on Crisis in
i Congress
WASHINGTON, April H. Congress
met today with a dosen sizzling resolu
tions on the Mexican situation drafted,
but with their authors hesitating If to
day was tho proper time to present them.
All demanded prompt and decisive action.
II tho 1'resldcnt should decide to with
draw from Mexico, leaders said freely
there wns not the slightest doubt he would
face tho most serious opposition. In which
many Democrats will Join tho Republi
cans. Democratic Senators privately 'were
hoping that the situation may bo saved
by n speedy capture of Villa. If they
are called on to vote to support tho with
drawal of troops without Villa having
been captured, there nppcarcd probability
tho party ranks would split.
SENATORS OPPOSE QUITTING.
A canvass of tho Senate showed that
tho members were overwhelmingly In
favor of keeping troops In Mexico. Tho
close friends of the President In tho upper
house make no secret of their belief that
tho tlmo for quibbling with Cnrranza has
gone by. Thoro is a strong tendency
among tho members, even including tho
men who are unalterably opposed to the
President's Mexican policy, not to Intensify
tho situation by partisan speeches on tho
floor at this time. They, bellovo that by
doing so they may Imperii tho safety
of tho American troops now In Mexico.
Senator Sherman of Illinois Is canvassing
tho Scnato membership to find out
whether tho tlmo Is not opportune to
press for passage of his resolution author
izing a call for volunteers.
It Is possible that this resolution will
be pushed very Boon. In both houses tho
sentiment Is strong to pursue a sharp
policy with regard to Carranza. In thlH
connection officials Interpreted President
Wilsons speech nt tho Jefferson Day
dinner last night as Indicating that he will
do so, Tho President was tho last speaker
of the evening, nnd while most of his speech
was an Interpretation of his views on
what the Dcmocratlcparty has accom
plished since It camo Into power In tho
nation, one paragraph of It was considered
significant of his Intention to keen itho
American troops In Mexico .until tho object'
or tncir mission is accompjisnca. . ,.
' ' WILSON'S ATTITUDE.
In this collection tho President said:
Ood forbid that wo should ever be
come directly or Indirectly Involved In
quarrels not of our own chopslng and
that do not affect what wo feel re
sponsible to dofend, but if wo should
ever be drawn In, are you ready to go
In only whero tho Interests of Amer
ica nro coincident with th elntorests
of mankind, and to draw ou the mo
ment the Interest centres In America
and Is narrowed from the wldo circle
of humanity? Are you ready for tho
test? Have you tho courage to go In?
Have you the courage to come out ac
cording as the balance Is disturbed or
Contlnutd on Pnie Pour. Column One
DYNAMITE CARS IN
TROLLEY STRIKE RIOT
ATWMES-BARRE
Mob Overcomes Police Detail,
Detective Chief and Others
Hurt Ten "Men and
Boys Arrested
CLUE TO EXPLOSIVES
WILICES-BARRE, Pa., April 14. Seri
ous rioting In connection with the trolley
strike occurred In the East End section
of this city at midnight, when a mob of
several hundred men and boys attacked
the last car run over the line, and used
dynamite and nltro-glycerlne in an effort
to blow it up.
Six sticks of dynamite attached to
dualin caps were planted along the rails.
One of the sticks was exploded as the
,car went over It. The windows of the car
were broken to pieces and tho vestibule
was wrecked, but the crew escaped with
out Injury,
A squad of city policemen could not
handle the mob. The rioters and police
force clashed, and In this battle Captain
of Detectives Adam Herget wns struck on
the head with a stone and rendered un
conscious. Anthony Fluegel was struck on
the head with a club and was removed to
a hospital. Several stitches were neces
sary to close up his wound. Ten men and
boys were placed under arrest by the
police, and most of them suffered from
minor injuries.
The East End mob was not dispersed
until early today, long after the last
car runnjng Into that section had been
taken off the line. A mob also gathered
in Miners Mills about midnight, but there
was no attack on the cars. The crowd
hooted and Jeered the trolley crews as
well as State Troopers, but there were
no acts of violence.
The police removed the dynamite and
nltro-glycerlne fount) along the East End
tracks. Fart of It was In a box bearing
the name of a family in Miners Mills.
This Is a clue in the dynamiting outrage
that the authorities Intendto run down.
Assistant Militia Surgeon Quits
FOTTSVJLLB. Pa.. April !. Dr
Henry Dirschedl has forwarded his resig
nation as assistant surgeon of the 4th
Regiment, National Guard of Pennsyl
vania, to Adjutant General Thomas J.
Stewart. Press of professional business
Is his assigned reason.
Found Dead With Gas Turned On
Failure to turn the gas completely off
before retiring caused the death of a man
believed to be Gottlieb Uauruau, of 2030
North Lawtence street H was found
dea4 la bed toady by Max. 3herf. a pape;
hniiger. who went In to isr the; room.
Efforts tcj revlvft the man at Ststaoi Hos
pital firavtd. rutllo.
U. S. FORCES IN VILLA PURSUIT
MENACED BY CARRANZA 'FLOP;
THREAT OF FURTHER ATTACKS
Mexican Chief Admits Inability to Con
trol Situation and Warns of Repeti
tion of Parral Clash One
American Soldier Killed
Pershing Rushes to Aid of Cavalry Believed Trapped
and Still Fighting Carranza Turns Over Affairs
to Obregon, U. S. Foe Plan Uprising
Sunday, Is Report
EL PASO, Texas, April 14. James Lord, prominent Sonora mining man,
today predicted that news of Carranza's demand for withdrawal of the
American troops would be spread to" every Mexican hamlet nnd that attacks
on white inhabitants as well as American soldiers might he expected.
The American expedition sent into Mexico faces a serious situntion for
the rensons, that
First. General Cnrranza virtually ndmits he is unnblo to con
trol his forces nnd warns tho United Stntcs thnt unless its troops are
withdrawn at once more serious attacks than at Parral Wednesday
might occur.
Second. Carranza has gone to Mexico City, leaving affairs in
charge of War Minister 0rcgon, who is admittedly antagonistic
to the American expedition. A
Third. Reports from sources close to Carranza say that a
concerted attack on tho Americans is planned for Sunday morning.
Fourth. The ndvanccd United States troops have aroused hos
tility among tho Mexican populace where at least passive friendli
ness existed before.
At least ono American soldier was killed and probably 20 wounded by
tho Carranza garrison and enraged citizens when the American column
entered Parral. This attack, following Carranza's official note demanding
withdrawal of the American troops is regarded as an indication of growing
unrest in Mexico and portending possible war.
Unconfirmed reports say that the battle at Pnrral is still going on, that
tho United States troops, only 150 in number, are trapped, but fighting their
way out. Pleayy casualties are feared.
Mexican Government officials place all the blame for the clash on tho
Americans for entering a town, contrary to instructions and agreement.
Sentiment in Washington is ngainst withdrawal- of the, troops. President
Wilson himself is said to favor continuance of tho pursuit of Villa,
General Fjjpatpn, has bcenpraercu to continue tho chase ana 'ase.' atttlea
Jorceajf nc"cddd'fCarrahzft'V"'3ttUadc ' icu&t'trte red'HapeVeoriliccted vfth- ifto
expedition nnd ifcbeliovcd the pursuit now will bo carried on unhampered.
"Fred Funston is unleashed."
Prolonged negotiations are expected
THE MAYOR OF SANS0M
STREET IS DEAD; BOOZE
KILLED ALBERT GLOCK
Entered Politics in the 8th and
Sansom Neighborhood and
Could Not Stand the
Gaff
WAS A DEMOCRAT
On a marble slab nt the Morgue lies
the body ot an old man a man once had
prospects of reaching the top with a fam
ily wllllne to help htm In his endeavors.
The men then young and full of fire
entered politics. That was In the seven
ties, wher tho bludgeon and open hand
ruled In place of the rapier and campaign
check, wher the back room of the neigh
borhood ealoon.l hrough the medium of
mum, yielded coups that routed the
enemy.
The adventurous political atmosphere
of the "old days" attracted young Albert
dock. The snug surroundings of some
of the old saloons around, the eastern half
of the 8th Ward appealed to him. He
got acquainted with every voter In the
division embracing Sansom street around
8th, and the typical type of the old divi
sion leader, spending time around the bar
and being a two-handed fighter and
spender.
t-
RICHARD HARDING DAVIS
ON HIS LAST JOURNEY
Author's Body Will Arrive
Here This Afternoon and
Will Be Cremated
The body of Richard Harding Davis.
.... ....... nn.,iiannii(lAtll. will arrive
at the North Philadelphia -station from
New York eany mis iuhibwi y
cremated at the columbarium of the
Chelten Hills Cemetery.
Three persons accompany the body,
They ar- the novelist's wife, formerly
MIS3 Bessie McCoy, the actress; their
.- .u i,i aitffhtnr TTnna Davis, and
Charles Belmont Davis, brother of the
author, immeaiaieiy upon "'"'
the body will be taken by automobile to-
' Strict simplicity will distinguish the
cremation In the little red-brick building
7... ..- nn.nv r,i the tous of which
. .. .....I...I ku ,Via lnwArlntr Anrll
clouds that Mr. Davis described so well
in his hook, vln tne og. i"? wu uo
no religious services. The coffin, shrouded
- -- ..... r,t th mnurnera and wit.
nesses by black cerements, will sink: into
the Incinerating room v " ,:. r"
of a lever; and tne ceremony wm pa
enThe ashes will be gathered tomorrow
morning and, according to present plans,
burled In the family plot tn the fevering-
nues, nosboraugb, where also, are buried
the ashes or Mr. ww wi. ""
Davis, and nt hi mother. JU&eeCf Hajrd-
CwsUausd fa taw Iart Criwaa w'
general uprising is feared.
to give ample time to catch Villa.
UNABLE TO STOP ATTACKS
ON TROOPS, SAYS CARRANZA
WASHINGTON. April II. General
Carranza, First Chief of Mexico, now ad
vises tho United States to withdraw Its
troops from Mexico nt once, wnrnlng that
an attack, even more serious than the
clash nt Tarral on Wednesday, might oc
cur nt any time.
Olllclnls here regard the message of
Carranza on this light ns In the nature
of a threat' and n demand for Immediate
action, and nlso as an .admission that ho
cannot control his people. The message
from Carranza, sent to Ambabsador Desig
nate Arrcdondo, was:
After the messngo sent you by Sec
retary for Foreign Affairs Agullar,
the Secretary of War received a mes
sage from General Gutierrez, dated
at Chihuahua, Informing him that It
had beon Impossible for military com
mandero to check the mob against
American troops who entered Parral,
and that this evening (April 12) tho
light had continued between our peo
ple and the American forces; that
many deaths had occurred on both
Sides. i
General Obregon has already given
orders to prevent continuation of bat
tle, but the excitement Is so great
among the people that I fall to know
whether the struggle can De Mopped.
Call on the Secretary of State and
advise him that the occurrence la
due to (he unwise action of the Amer
ican commander in having entered
Parral without the permission of the
authorities, violating the orders of
that Government forbidding the occu
pation of towns by American forces.
Please cause the Secretary of State
to see that It Is unwise for American
troops to remain any longer on our
sol), as more serious incidents than
Continued on Pace Nine, Column Ono
UNA SCONFITTA TURCA
NELLA MESOPOTAMIA
Gli Inglesi Costringono le
Truppe del Sultano ad Ar-
retrare di Tre Miglia
Un comunlcato ufflclale Inglese dice che
le truppe turche operantl nella Mesopo-
(amla, verso cut si dlrlgono anche truppe
russe provenientt dalla Persia, sono state
sconfltte dalle forzo Ingles! a sono state
costrette a retrocedere dl tre miglia.
II comunlcato urficiale italiano annuncla
che gli austrlaci erano rtuscltt con un at
tacco dl sorpresa ad entrare nelle trlncee
recentemente conqulstate dalle truppe dl
Cadorna sul Monte Sperone, ma poterono
rlmanervl appena una glornata, essendone
state cacclate alia sera da un vlolento
contrattacco degl) Italian!.
I tedeschi, non essendo riuscltl a con
qulstare le poslzlonl franceal sulla colllna
dl Le Mort Homme, hanno rlcomlnclato a
bonibardare te Hnee francesL lerl sera
essl avevano operato un debole attacco
che era stato facllmjnte resplnto.
(Leggere in Sa paglna altre e plu' det
tagllate notlzle sulla guerra, In Italiano.)
Young Men's Smoking Causes Fire
An early morning fire damaged the rear
of three vacant houses at 628-30-32
JJorth 5th street today. The damage
was about 400. PoUce believe the Are
was, caused by young men trucking in the
rear of the houses; The family of Frank
Smith. ha4 to leave their home, at 634
North J 5th street, adjoining one of the
burned houses, when gmak entered their
fcorue,
EXTRA ',
V. S. WILL NOT QUIT VILLA
PURSUIT, CABINET DECIDES
WASHINGTON, April 14. American troops will remain In
Mcxico-rfoi f"he present nt least, The, Cabinet today determined
upon no change ot policy toward the Mexicnn situation. No. change
in the Immediate future was decided on. This means the hunt for
Villa will proceed. After the session It wns stated no answer had
been made to General Carranza's suggestion for withdrawing the
American forces, and that Consul Itodgers had not been Instructed,
to ttcat with Carmnzn towaul an amicable .settlement of the Crirrnnsiv
suggestion. "
PHILLY-GIANT GAME THIS AFTERNOON POSTPONED
Today's contest between the Fhtlllcs and New York Glnnt3 wae
called off shortly before 1 p. in. because of rain.
U-BOATS SINK 80 SHIPS IN MARCH TONNAGE 207,000 '
BEItlJN, April 14. Eighty enemy merchant ships, whoso total tonnage was
207,000, wcro Bunk by German submarines or mines during tho month of March, ?
It was announced today by tho Admiralty.
TURKS BEAT SLAVS
rnVCTA VTTVnDr.P A-...II I.! m,
report today: "Tho situation on tho Irak
Persia Turkish troops attacked Russian
enemy fled."
SIR ROGER CASEMENT REPORTED HELD IN BERLIN
COPENHAGEN, April 14. A press dispatch states that Sir Roger Casement
has been arrested In Berlin, but tho chargo Is not specified.
(Sir Roger Casement Is an Irishman. Shortly after tho outbreak- tho war
ho went to Germany, where ho tried to persuade Irish prisoners of war to fight
for tho German cause)
GOVERNMENT PROBES ACTS OF REVENUE AGENTS HERE
WASHINGTON, April 14. An actlvo investigation to determlno whethor
deputy internal revenue collectors wero in collusion with tobacco dealers and
manufacturers who nro alleged to have defrauded the internal revenue out of
millions of dollars Is being prosecuted by tho Treasury Department In Philadelphia
nnd Pittsburgh, It was stated at tho Treasury Department today.
MANY KILLED BY ALPINE AVALANCHE
ROME, April 14. Many persons wcro killed nnd Injured last night by ,an
avalanche In the Swiss canyon of Valnls. Tho avalanche obstructed Slmplon Pass.
NATIVES ATTACK AMERICAN PROFESSOR IN ASIA
tlan College, wa3 attacked recently while making a magnetic survoy ot Asia for -
tho Carnecto Institute, but escaped with his llfo. according to word received hero 1
today. Ono of thejaoldlcrs escorting the
University.1' ' 1
TUBANTIA TORPEDOED, DUTCH BOARD FINDS
THE HAGUE, April 14. The report of tho Dutch Board of Navigation,
declaring that tho Dutch vessels Tubantia and Palembang wero both tor
pedoed, has raised public feeling In Holland to a high pitch and has evoked
a wide-spread demand for drastic action on the part of tho Government.
Tho board, which Is an autliorlatlve, semiofficial body, finds, after a pains,
taking Inquiry into both cases, that, contrary to tho German contention, tho
I'alombang did not strI.ko a mine, but was hit by a torpedo: It also finds that
tho Tubantla's loss undoubtedly was caused by a torpedo, fired without -warning,
and that fragments of the projectile, found later in tho Tubantla's lifeboats,
prove conclusively that It was a Bchwartzkopff torpedo.
NEW GREEK CABINET REPORTED IMPENDING
ATHENS, April 14. Reports aro current that tho reconstruction of tho
Cabinet is impending. Former Premier Zalmls Is mentioned as likely to succeed
Premier Skouloudis If the latter resigns, but many persons favor Minister of
Justice and Communications Rallls. Tho Greek Government has prohibited both
neutrals and belligerents from traveling through Greece. Thl3 Is Interpreted
as a retaliation for a similar prohibition in Bulgaria.
RUSSIA TO CUT DOWN CONSUMPTION OF MEAT
PETROGRAD, April 14. A bill permanently prohibiting the sale of bever
ages containing more than 1H per cent of alcohol, will be prepared shortly by tha
Ministry of Finance. Tho Agricultural Commltteo of tho Duma has approved
the bill restricting the consumption of meat. It has recommended that the .
slaughter of cattle bo prohibited on Tuesdays and Thursdays and tho sale of
meats In restaurants on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays.
"SMOKE CURTAIN" WILL GUARD U. S. WARSHIP
SAN PEDRO, Cal., April 14, Defense of warships from submarine attacks
by "smoke curtains" made by torpedobop. destroyers will be one of the features of
the week's maneuvers which have just begun oft San Pedro. The United States
monitor Cheyenne and the submarines II-l, II-2 and H-3, followed by tha de
stroyers Paul Jones, Whlpplo, Perry and Stewart, the tender Iris and tha cruiser
Milwaukee, aro taking part In tho maneuvers. Submarine attacks will bo made
on the Iris and Milwaukee, with tho destroyers attempting to blanket them
with smoko from their funnels
GERMAN MAYORS ACT AGAINST FOOD SHORTAGE
BERLIN, April 14. At a meeting of tho Lord Mayors of tho German cities
held yesterday under the presidency of Adolf Waerm'uth, the Lord Mayor of Berlin,
a manifesto was Issued proposing necessary measures In order to organize prop
erly the distribution of victuals In the course of next winter, the third of tho -war.
The manifesto points out that last winter somecltles, owing to Insufficient organ-
izatlpn, several times temporarily ran short or poatoes and bread, and measures
are proposed which will make Impossible a repetition of such Incidents,
(
UNREST IN JAPAN OVER CHINESE REVOLUTION
TOKIO, Japan, April 14. The revolution In, China la causing disquietude in
Japan, where tho pplnlon is held that it will be difficult for Tuan Sal-Kal to retain
the Presidency, In -well-informed circles, both Japanese and foreign, military
Intervention by Japan Is regarded as Impossible unless tjie lives and Interests;
of Japanese subjects should be imperiled.' Should intervention become necessary,
Janan presumably would act on the' behalf of her Allies on account of tho fact
that they are occupied by the war. It Has been announced here that telegrams
have been dispatched by the Chinese Government to the revolutionary leaders
urging that hostilities be brought to an- end In order to prevent foreign inter,
vcntlon.
FRENCH INCREASE OUTPUT OF SHELLS 33 TIMES
PARIS, April 14. The stock of- shells for the French artillery at Verdun
lias been more than adequate so far, and n addition to supplying tho dally
needs of this terrific artillery fighting, supplies are already ample, and are being,
increased dally, for a French offensive when one shall ba ordered. The output
of shells tax the T6 millimeter guns has been Increased thirty-three and one-third
times since the first taonth of the war, and the output for the larger Stench
guns has been increased forty-four times. Tha manufacture of t?s and th
heavier artillery has increased twenty-three times sine August, 1914.
READING URGES STOCKHOLDERS TO BOOST PORT
Tha Philadelphia and "Reading Railway has given Impetus to the "Via Pbila.
delphla" movement by requesting all stockholders, through notices sent out with
dividend checks, to ship and order their freight by way Of lt Uneg The notice
states that the railroad controls and maintains extensive Udawater tern)!
for I rtlsht and that the Port Richmond terminal ? $ company U th iwi
Uadec P23! management la 0a world
BACK IN PERSIA
n-t.VfoVi Wni. rmn laaimrt Un frrxxtlntr J
front (Mesopotamia) Is unchanged. In ,
forces In tho Soujoulak region. The.
party wna, filled .and two wero .wundci -ii
i
3
1
