. S ' a'' <. '':.' <_" r G . :. " Y1 a Vf ,.t :. r' Gt'~ a 4x- .. x-r
31
? r " f"- .
.Tj '.
Am.
Iff
NINEWTIRM
~O3!!NCEO
President's Candidacy for Re
election Launched at Com
mon Counsel Club Banquet.
8" DEMOCRATS DIE
Party Leader Given Entire
Credit for Achievements
of Administration.
SPEAKERS IGNORE MEXICO
Repqlican Party Called the Tool of
the "Hand-Picked" Few-Wil
son Delivers Address.
With nearly 80O enthusiastic Democrats
gathered under a flag-draped ceiling In
the big banquet hall of the New Willard,
the candidacy of Woodrow Wilson, Presi
dent of the United States, to succeed
himself, was impressively arranged last
night by the Common Counsel Club.
Though arranged as a Jefferson Day
dinner, the affair was peculiarly and ex=
elusively a Woodrow Wilson dinner. The
men who have taken leading parts in
perpetuating through legislative enact
ments the policies of the present ad
ministration gathered around the festive
,board to disclaim any credit for their
work. and to yield to the party leader
all credit for taese accomplishments.
No Talk of Mexico
And with Mexico a seething vortex of
anti-Americanism, with the news fresh
from the border that the troops of the
de facto government had tired upon and
probably murdered a number of their
supposed allies-the United States troops
at Parral-discussion of the Mexican
policy was conspicuous chiefly through
Its absence.
Mr. Wilson's was a peculiarly partisan
political speech. The Republican party
was held up for consideration as the
party of trusteeship by a "hand-picked"
few; thebemocratic rule was described
as the administration for the many. That
Theodore Roosevelt was preminenUy
placed to the thoughts of the preseit k'd
-ninistration was evidenced In two ways:
ly the religious ignoring of the Mexican
problem with its new acuteness, and by
'he applause which greeted the declara
:foe:
"This country has not the time; It has
'ot the desire to listen to the violent,
:o the ambitious."
Tresident Wilson said in part:
There are only two theories of gov
rnment, my fellow-citizens. The one is
that power should be centered In the con
trol of trustees who should determine the
ndministration of all economic abd po
litical affairs. That is the theory of the
Republican party. A carefully hand
keil body of trustees. The other theory
is government by responsible and respon
vise servants of the great body of citi
zens. able to understand the common In
t."rests. because in direct and sympathetic
touch with the common desire and the
common need. The peculiarity of those
who think in the terms of trusteeship is
that their thinking always squares with
the prefdences of the powerful and never
squares with the lessons of history.
"I was talking one day with a gentle
man who was expounding to me the very
familiar Idea that somebody-I dare say
he would prefer to name the persons
should act as guardians and trustees for
the people of the neighboring republic
of Mexico. I said. 'I defy you to show
a single example in history in which lib
erty and prosperity were ever handed
down from above. Prosperity for the
great masses of mankind has never
sprung out of the soil of privilege. Pros
perity for the great masses of mankind
has never been created by the beneficence
of privilege. Prosperity and right, pros
perity and liberty have never come by
favor; they have always come by right.'
"One of the things that it has been
just as interesting to prove as anything
else that we have proved in the last three
years, is that we are not partisan as
against any legitimate business interat,
no matter how great; that we are not
slighting anybody that is doing legiU
CONTINUtED ON PAGE FIE.
DEL&WARE YOTS POR T. R.
De Pout Vietery Deelared to Inemre
Ballets for Meose.
Wilmington. DeL., April 13.-Four or five
of the six Delaware de*-e to the Re
publican national convention at Chica=o
wRi east their votes for Theodore Roese
vet. probably on the frst ballot.
This was the interestufdevelopmeut
aired and accepted in political circles bere
today as the reattit' of the stagig -
feat anltered to the reacieiny Re
geblican machine last Tuemaeg at the
Dover state convention by Alfred 1. 4.
Peut and the Progremive eleat 3m the
'party.
V0r Dad.la tgs Jane Adian.
- 5e.go. Asse X-L dO.. a A~s
~jmemeu reise adermed a tabse at th
meid t a Jami 4dm tadas
begift at Psaidst Wsee.
Secretary of War Baker gave
out the following statemeratlast
night:
"I have telegraphed .Gen.
Funton the cotents of the
dispatches given out by the
Mexican Embassy.
"I Rave instructed Gen. Fun
ston to take thle necessary steps
to protect qsr people and to
prevent further trouble.
"I have saed him also to
wire all details he can get as
fast as-he gets them."
ARREST EIGHT
IN SHIP PLOT
Chief -Engineer of Interned
German Liner and Assist
ants Are Held.
BOMBS MANUFACTURED ON
SKIP, OFFICIALS ALLEGE
arrant Sworn Out for Head of Chem
ical Company-Former Diplomats
and Bankers Declared Involved.
(By Intemadional News rvise.)
New York. April 13--Eight men-all
Germans or German-Americans-are in
the tolls of the Federal authorities to
night charged with being "working
agents" in the most gigantic bomb and
arson plot in the history of America.
Four were arrested late this afternoon
on warrants charging complicity in a
conspiracy to blow up ships leaving this
port with munitions and supplies intend
ed for the allies.
These men are Karl G. Schmidt. f2,
chief engineer of the Friedrich Der
Grosse, interned liner of the North Ger
man Lloyd Steamship Company, and his
three assistants.
A warrant has been sworn out also for
"Dr." Walter T. Scheele, president of the
New Jersey Agricultural Chemical Com.
pany, of Noboken, a chemist, and alleged
inventer of powerful bombs, hundreds of
which, it is alleged, were placed in the
cargoes of English and French merchant
ships.
City and Pedersl authesitieg arc comb
lug four States for Scheele tonight.
The worksheo in which the censtue
tion of the little metal coi iners for
the ingredients of liquid are designed te
destroy merchant ships of the allies was
carried on, was the steamship Friedrich1
der Grosse. That was the emphatic
charge of both the local police and the
Department of Justice today.
While the bombs were carried to Amer.
ican soil to be filled with sulphurio acid
and chlorate of potash, nevertheless, ac
cording to the authorities, the German
owned ship was the background of a
part of the alleged plotting against the
allies' merchantmen.
The following are alleged to have had
cognizance of the plot: Capt. Frans von
Papen, Capt. Karl Boy-Ed, Frans von
Rintelen, personal envoy to this coun
try of the Kaiser, at least two high of
ilcials of the German government in thl
country, and a coterie of millionaire Ger
man-Americans, bankers and business
men.
Verdun Battle
Halted by Rain
Fogs Also Help to Bring Lull
in Fighting on French
Front.
(By International News Service.)
London, April 13-Torrential rains,
sweeping over the blood-soaked battle
field, and impenetrable fogs which are
seriously hampering artillery observa
tions, have brought a temporary lull in
the battle of Verdun.
Throughout the day and the night be
fore, the infantry have remained in the
trenches and only bombardments, which
have attained great intensity in certain
sectors. show that the battle is still going
on.
The French statement says that' the
heaviest artillery actions of the day took
place on. the Morte Hommae-Cumieres
sector, west of the, Mebs, and aroend
Hill No. 3N,~ where the Germans are
trying to blast a w~y through ta the
Paris-Verdun railway.'
U-D.e We..mee mad e... opt..ed
by Vsene.
Pais, April 13.-The German subanaine
which torpedoed the esaanns liasr Sia,
was sunk on April 5, It was omeialy an
bounced today. The U-beats M4eity la
fully know to the French beaet
lts -----s- anb erew are undmeajeo
to be prIseer. in a prison camp er the
"We could peidish the name of the ese.
nander and the nomar et the antamaring
whish atah the Sasseg. as weB as thi
.st har l$senas sw to the
5rt..,? a us. ~ss
nWo. W e =.r =m ...
SAYS COLONEL
Declares in Favor of Protec
tive Tarif, but Makes It
Secondary Issue.
PLACES HONOR FIRST
Loyalty Must Be to the Whole
United States, with Nation
United, He Says.
SiURs 'EAc OF COWARDICE"
Roosevelt Makes Caustic Reference to
PaciLat Measures in Touching on
Protection of Citizens at.Border.
soEda t 'he Wahtstes BasU.
Oyster Way. April iL-Col. Roosevelt
gave out a statement this evening favor
ing a protective tariff, but declaring that
the tarif Is not the great Iasue of the
fght against President Wilson. It is
rather that the American people must
find its own soul.
From hi advocacy of a return to a pro
tective tariff, the Colonel's statement
went on to the theme of national honor
and America first, last and all the time.
touched upon the Mexican situation, and
closed with a sentence about the "peace
of cowardice," a phrase which Is believed
to have tome to his mind simultaneously
with the thought of Mr. Wilson.
It was the editorial announcement of
the New York Tribune this morniuK that
prompted Col. Roosevelt to make the
statement. He was asked if he, had any
thing to say about this newspaper's In
dorsement of his candidacy for the Re
publican nomination for President, and
he said In reply:
Appreeiates luppot.
"Of course, I deeply appreciate what
the Tribune stye of me, but I appreciate
Infinitely more what it says in advocacy
of the things, for which I stand.
"Prom time to time it has recently been
announced thgt4 the eight aglanst Mr. WiI
*e Is to be waged only, or shaose odly,
on the tariff. Such an appeal would be
an appeal to the belly and not to the soul
of the American nation.
'By all means provide for the things
of the body, but only on condition that
we treat the body as the senrant of the
seul.
"I believe heartily to a protective
tariff.
"Unless we return to a protective tariff,
preferably administered through a com
mission of experts, we shall face wide
spread economic disaster at the end of
this war.
,"But this Is not the great issue on
which the fight is to be made if the
highest service is to be rendered the
American people.
Issue to Be Faeed.
"The issue is that the American peo
must find its own soul. National
honor is a spiritual thing that cannot
be haggled over In terms of dollars. We
must stand not only for America first,
but America first, and last, and all
the time, and without and second.
"Our loyalty must be to the whole
United States. East and West., and North
and South, alike, must hold the life of
every man and the honor of every woman
on the most remote ranch on the Mexi
can border as a sacred trust to be
guaranteed by the might of our united
nation.
"We stand for peace, but only for the
peace that comes as a right to the just
man armed. and not for the peaoe which
the coward purchases by abject submis
sion to wrong. The peace of Cowardice
leads in the end to war after a record
of shame."
Funston to Rush
Troops to Rescue
May Utilize Mexican North
western in Hustling Soldiers
to Pershing's Aid.
Glen. Funston, In commanda of about
1s,000 troops on the border, was given
practicallg unlimited instructions there
to protect the United States troops In
Mexico,
The orders which were sent last eves.
ing are understood by army Oofs te
mien that Gen. Psrshldg, and esptta~
his advance guard at Parral mnust
pretected with all. the nmsa at
stona comendn and at, the eaurlest pas
stble mmuient
May amate Is that Glen.-Punsts wU
astpwemptly and that his list esder ies
to send at once the troops nearest 06 ths
ferma of Pershing to hin rescea,
-e neat step of dem.' Pamates, t 'ib
Moewill be- to send all
tree awees the herds, sa if he
to mnin the 3emn Nstttiam
MEXICAN M(
ON U. S.T
ONE KILL
Carranza Regrets Clash;
Puts Blame on U. S. Troops
The Mexican Embassy last night, following a conference between
Mr. Arredondo and Secretary Lansing, gave out the following an
nouncement, including the official dispatches received relating to the
Parral fight:
"Nilsee Arredeede, Ambasosder Dasiguate et the Meil.. government
in Washington, waieing the seutimento f Mr. Carransa, called at the De
partment of State this afternese to espeN Mr. Carransa' sincere regret
for the seeuresee In Parral between American troops and the people of
the city, than showing that the lamentable incident was the resmut et the
American commmaur in enteling the city centrary to the instretioas of
his government. ThO ean be reedly see from the fellowing telegrams
submitted by Mr. Arredonde to the Seeretary of States
"'Mr. EUsee Arrodone, Queretaro, April 12, 1514.
Meilea g-bassy., Washimgtea. D. C.
"'Please confer with the honerable Seeretary Lansing and Inform
him that today at 1 p. w. a eolmna of 115 Amertcan sedier. entered the
city Of ParmL The wer of the cty. Jose de Ia Las Herrea, ImmedI
ately eaned the attentle ot the eom-man-er af this column to the Ineen
vieaee of his entering the city. his seiers Immediately withdrawing.
but when they were leaving the people pretested. mud the mayor and
military eemmaad-se tried to entral them with their appeals In order to
prevent frien., but owing to the Impeudeaee of a civillan, who ired a
shot. a general diesosgr ftiewed, in wbh one Amereaa .oldier was
killed and several ohnas were wounded by shets fram the Ameetena
soldiers. Military eemsandsre succeeded I. eheeking the mob at Nate
rama to avoid them from ftollwing American troops, forming a eorde or
sometitutionallst Moldisss. In this eonnectien, the Mexican government
warned the goverumeat of the United States from the beginning that It
would be uawise for American treep to pas through cities due to the
impossibility at aoeidiag friction between them and the people. and asr
forces at an aespeetd moment. The American government, to that ef
feet, agreed to give the meen mary iastruetena to Its troops to have them
abstain rimm eeeupying any towas. The Nexilca goverament deplores
the eeurrence. but It was beyead its efforts to prevent it, and ins.its with
the Amerien geeram e the neessity of withdrawing Its treeps from
eas sell In order net tegive roam for the alteration of the goed and ear
dial relations which beM eouatrles are obliged to preserve.
(Signed.) AGUILAM.'
a 'Kline. Arredoade. ueretarn, April la, 1,14.
Mexcan Emshemy, Washiagte., D. C.
"'After menssage .t you by Seeretary of Fereiga Affairs Aguilar,
the secretary of wa reelved a massage from Gen. Gutierrem, dated at
Chlhmahua. informing hims that It had been Impeedible, for military eom
maaders to cheek the mob against American tres whe entered Parral,
and that this evening Sgt bad esothuad between our people and
the Amerisma ftrows. ti..lal7=dothat had nee red en both 414e0.
"'Gn. Obresa eden. orders to preaht eomns.nmo tt
the battle. but theeggettnment is oe great -aeuog the poeple, that I fail
to bsew whethe 4e struggle en he stesped. Call en the Sere of
State and advise him that the seeurreace is due to tae unwise aetiom of
the American eemoaader in having entered Parful without the permsle.
of the autherities. vinlating the orders of that geveenmeut. forbidding the
eepation of towns by American fereen. Please ease the Secretary of
State to see that it is awise for American troops to remain any longer
en oer stih, an mere aeriens ineIdents than the praeemt sne. whiek we
must avoid at dl ats, may deveiep. Please make me ft any nenta
7 may dem advisable to put da end to the situation rated by the
p msence of Ameran troops in our territory. I will keep en advising yen
through the fioreign oeee of any further incidente.
/igned) V. CA RANSA.'
"'0 Pasoe. Tea., April 1;. 151L.
"'Gen. Gavira iaforms me that last night about 140 Ameriena sel
diers tried to eater Parral. The people protested, and it appear. that the
garrisen did also. Several persona were killed eN both sides.
(Signed) ANDREAS G. GARCIA. "
Map Showing Region Traversed by
U. S. Troops and Scene of Attack
.L PASO
GRAN LJU 0 Rs
WC IRO
have IoDu ene A t e lc m e t
SQEtR. $#, o
"' " '- A S -_ -,i
)B FIRES
ROOPERS;
1ED, 20 HURT
AMBUSH IN PARRAL
COSTS ATTACKERS
MANY SCORE LIVES
Thirteenth Cavalry Detachment Retires After
Hot Fight-Rioters Alleged Supplied with
Guns by Carranza Garrison Commander.
COMMUNICATION MAY BE CUT
By H. H. WASN3WtY.
(iuteermete.a w .m e3m)
El Paso, Tex., April 13.-One American soldier was killed and
twenty wounded yesterday by Mexican snipers, citizens of Parral.
The attack on the American force was made with arms issued
by the Carranza garrison commander at that point.
The force attacked was a detachment of the Thirteenth Cavalry,
which chased Pancho Villa across the Durango border' on Monday
night.
FORCED TO REZ1EI FOR E MIEB. -
The troops had been forced to turn back for lack of supplies.
They had no warning of the attack and were half way through the
town when the firing began.
To protect themselves they dismounted, deployed, and returned
the fire.
The telegraphic advices by which the news of the engagement ua,
conveyed to the border declare that not less than 150 Mexicans u ere
killed.
SAY CA AwR.Znrra 8 WERE II FIGHT.
These messages also carried the assertion that members of llhe
Carranza garrison took part in the fighting.
Gen. Funston, at 6 o'clock this evening, had receive4 ae official
notification of the engagement. Official status has beeg hven to the
news, however, by the Mexican officials and a telegram from Con-ul
Letcher at Chihuahua.
lAtE TO PROTECT C0EEKUNICATIONS.
The effect of the news has been to start hurried preparations to
prevent an immediate Attempt to cut the line of communications be
tween Columbus and 13,000 troops now in the field.
"No living authority, north or south of the border, can predict
what the developments of the next forty-eight hours will be." said
the highest military authority in this vicinity when he read the report
from Parral.
Both military and civil authorities declared the incident serves to
tear aside the cloak of sham behind which the Carranza government
has protested their co-operation with the effort of the United States
to capture Villa.
UPEISING BELIEVED TO BE FEARED.
The frantic efforts of the Mexican officials to minimize the im
portance of the affair, as regards to casualties, clearly indicates fear
of an uprising which they will he unable to cope with.
Mexican fashion, they charge full responsibility for the attack to
the commander of the American forces.
Minister of War Obregon sent the following communication to
Gen. Gabriel Gavira, the Carranza commander at Juarez:
"My department desires to bring to the knowledge of the arm'
the lamentable incident at Parral, between the people of that city and
an American force in the pursuit of Villa.
TOLD TO LEAVE THE CTY.
"At 1 o'clock in the afternoon an American force composed of
150 men entered Parral. Our commander notified the commander of
said force that the Americans should vacate. The commander of the
Americans begin to carry out the wish of the authorities, when the
people of the city organized a meeting of protst against the entrance
into the city of the American troops without permission.
"The civil authorities tried to avoid a conflict, but their forces
were not sufficient to handle the situation. In the friction which re
sulted one American soldier was killed and several citizens were
wounded.
Tied to Mim People. two hoon ahead of th cavalry column.
"The municipal president. Jose de la
Lus Herrers, and the constitutional gen-oterohd t oemslre o a retih
erals. Garcia, ImaLno and Hernandez. of the ow ere ode
with some of eir officials and troops,. o
tried to calm . people, thus avoiding the streets by the di-Il anthert es
an Icidnt hic miht aveassmed Be it. the oraitheye rogt the e
enerysag rprob.TeAeia ia id~it tme lean a seth
oforelftectthe roawa fa qua'tert o which
l hve nfomedthefirt ciefofThe ateves of e twen e ordereed
It I geerou tomy tat inise ff Wtth ~tb the esatetesb..
Wan incden wic meght hae smd elte tm in tervened OmiO~e wirths prep
fuey tag rptoshe Aserican miinrammi t es tt is no ~sOaWU la. Ss we
forceu lef the atity. th t lla e malss mleering spetsem t ic
"Ie he tonfor e'te wrt he o the Obrgo he refhete oulthe e
eIt eerou sy th eeat o tr ow.figt Whthero notste Amrian temha
War Orose ws merey Sfing rte T **he m~ oommestn wt ami
his rtentf the eort eeve Pheris a~d how iute wh bdawe,.
fren sth dAmelene atred t e ed iat leAm' vi af s
arl areDsdh UsSe corrct.e lte csenr e.
'The detachment wask not Omy itwto Aealuet hia beeprsdhreta
aring softh e Paltabt toan apemr unles fGe ePeskae ets beaPm
Weneete tw' waher ated when m t ey Omia onO.
enteredby thewid eat erS readwa hy.fv me-W
Tbe teoopd wee bemmet eanewe. the al eAtn. a tBas
hade rUte they eha raag e ss these. h arapat.Oa
sarc uthle iem 6ma. iui sc jhme.Abs
Plans ored ry ..riie*
emeriedsea byAstecre, h
