X' .
THE WEATHER FORECAST. '
Probably showers to-day; partly cloudy
'to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday, $t; lowest, 43.
Detailed weather, mall and marla reports on pae 1 1
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 227.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1916. Coprijinf,m.6i th Bun PrMlng and Publishing AtsociaUon.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
MEXICANS FIGHT U. S. TROOPS; CARRANZA DEMANDS WITHDRAWAL;
PARRAL IS SCENE OF CONFLICT; MANY ARE REPORTED DEAD;
PERSHING'S FORCE SURROUNDED; WAR OR RECALL, ARMY VIEW
BERLIN'S GUILT
SEEN IN REPLY,
OFFICIALS SAY
Washington Holds "Un
known Steamer" Torpe
doed Was Sussex.
WEIGHT OF EVIDENCE
AGAINST A "SKETCH"
President Forced to Send a
Note to Settle Ques
tion of Fact.
LOOPHOLE LIES IX
PLEDGE ABOUT LINERS
Wilson Hampered by the
Phrase Used in Previous
Agreement.
N amiington', April 13. Germany's
reply to President Wilson's latest rep
retnt.itlons on the submarine Issue has
oeferrcil but not eliminated the critical
,:cn..itkiial situation iirought about by
utlaik" of Jeini.in .submarines on ships
tiir.:"'S 'rriean
U u.is ' nJ Hie effect of making an lu
te mi') la I. v step necessary before the
I "evident takes Iliuil action, but this In
termediary Mei the sending of another
liutc to Germany will not affect the
resident's determination to force a dual
nnd definite accounting with the Berlin
Outernnicnt. This is the situation us
it .i ,iUthotltatiel. explained to-night.
If has liven the Intention 01 ma
Utrnaii Government to court delay and
pru a-tlin tlon by Its reply, it has ad
r..r.iul.v succeeded, according to officials
r.tro Germany, It Is explained, rcstH
..f not on questions of principle,
u it on questions of fact.
This uecesayrlly Involves diplomatic
liK'tiMion, for there can be no further
Itogics in the case until questions of
flit arc cleat ed up. The American note
mil, It is said, t-ummarlly dispose of the
tit's died by llerlln In proof of its con
l.ri(,n that a German submarine did
but k the Sussex.
'resident Wilson and Secretary Lan-u.-.g
regard Germany's defence in the
sji!-. use as virtually amounting to
n aiirnsSon of guilt. The American
r.te lia Ked by the evidence which has
Lien obtained from I.'ngUud and France.
Mm Hue the position that the 'unknown
o'.cmiei which the tierman submarine
t ueil iu having torpedoed was the
(nntrnst of llir Kvldencr.
The overwhelming evidence supporting
tr!s tacory will lx continsted with the
n-gle jmnt the sketch drawn by the
unman ie rnmmander upon which Ger
many rests Its disavowal. Kurtherniore.
ivldence which Germany supplies con
ttriilnir the "unknown steamer" which
the Herman submarine commander tur
Idoe,j n II he used to show that the
He was In leallty the Sussex,
German) s attention will be called to
tre faet that the Sussex was torpedoed
' alinot precisely the time that the
vjbrnari'.e commander reported firing at
tf "unknown steamer." According to
official reports from France, the Sussex
a south of th, Dungeness huoys and
'tout In mid-channel when the explosion
(furred
The simmailne commander says that
tfcf hlp h" llred on was south of the
Ihnser.ess buoja and about In mld-chau-"I.
T.ie Sussex was steaming about
xtoeri knots and the submarine coin
mari'ler s.i)s thn vessel lie torpedoed
as Menjulng at about eighteen knots.
Both the Sussex and the "unknown
etmer" Here hit near the Iraw nnd in
"i iae the entire forward part was
tnrr. away to the bridge. No other
"am-T has been torpedoed In this un
U'u! manner since the war began.
Both the President and Secretary
Lansing me convinced that Germany
ll not seriously contend that the sub
marine coinniumler torpedoed a vessel
mll.ir to the Sussex at the exact low
ton if the Sussex at the same time and
n the srtme manner as the Kmsex wrh
inmasecl without admitting that the ship
n question must lime -been the Sussex,
'twithstjndlim the slight discrepancies
n the rough sketch made by the sub
marine otiunander anil the photograph
i the c-oss-chaniicl packet.
ne Weal. Point t'lrnrril I p.
The iJeiinaii noiCl t , explained.
Ifim up (dp nne weakness which ex
In the unnulatlve evidence which
jn I nltcl states has gathered tending
w thow that the ship was torpedoed.
fakness was the fact that no one
"'iei tounu to swear thnt a sub
nurlne had been seen. In a majority
t'i canes (termini submarines have come
tnt nirface before llrlng torpedoes
t their victims, but the German note
"yi i tlm fiihinarlne wbh submerged when
fJ,ro'' ;'1 ln fc'eanier.
Offlem, j,cre regard it as probable
Is I Germany's next move will be to
imit that the preponderance of evl
J"c shows that the Sussex must liv
tn th-. pteanier which was believed to
wt BrltMi mine layer, nd consequently
ureii on iy mistUKe,
.. But if the llerlln Foreign Office ba
yea thai this explanation will be suf
wlwt tositlsfy President Wilson, It will
w, Ceiuinucd on fourth Pmg.
Miss Grace McLaughlin.
HEIRESS WHO
ELOPED WED
ON DEATHBED
Grace McLaughlin Made
31rs. Stevens by Dispensa
tion of Havana Bishop.
HER FORTUNE GOES TO
HUSBAND AND AUNT
W011I leached this city eslerday thai
Miss Grace McLaughlin, who died In
Havana last Monday, u.ip married on,
her deathbed the day before to George
M. Stevens, with whom she eloped last
January. In a will made on March 30
and tiled with Juan Carlos Andreu. a1
notary public of Havana, she left Her
estate, valued at IjU.ouO. to her husband
nnd her aunt. .Mrs Catherine Ingles, with i
whom she lived up to the time of her I
elopement. .
Three weeks before her death Mrs.)
Stevens contracted a cold. llronchlal
pneumonia developed and three physi
cians were called in. They Informed
Stevens that there was not much hope.
He and two nurses were at her bedside
almost constantly, line of er physi
cians was Iir. Torrftlbm a prominent I
specialist, who represented Cuba at a i
recent medical conference in Washing
ton. When the end came Stevens col-1
'lapsed, almost a mental as. well as.physl-1
cal wreck. He In now under the care of
Iir. Torralbas.
If Mrs. Stevens bad lived nine das
longer the couple would have been civ
illy married. The marriage performed
last Sunday has not been registered and
therefore Is not legal. Father Meudei,
who had been In constant attendance
upon Mrs. Stevens since the elopers ar
rived In Havana, about two mouths ago,
heard her confession and decided to
grant her wish to be married, although
Stevens's ilhorce will not be effective
until Anrll 111.
The nrlest hud been taken into the
confidence of the pair and w.ui satlstled
that when they eloped to Philadelphia
they honestly thought they could be
married there at once.
The rules of the Catholic Church pre
wilted ,such a marriage without a dis
pensation from a Rkhp, and Mils could
be had only after the divorce had been
l,.":illv mauled. This news was a shock
to Miss McLaughlin and Stevens, who
had adopted the Catholic ralth as a
proof of his affection for the comely
heiress. ,
Ml.s McLaughlin was loo much
ashamed to return home after the. fact
got out that she had eloped, and being
a devout Catholic would not listen to a
marriage except In her church. After
a time they came back to New York,
In the hope of flndliig some way of being
married here, Falling again, they .went
to Key West, Ha,, and then to Havana.
There they found the church rules Just
an stringent. So they decided to wait
until tin; divorce granted to the first
.Mrs. Stevens became final.
The Catholic Bishop of Cuba waa ap
pealed to and he Issued u pedal dis
pensation for the marriage. The bans
were read last Sunday ami they were
to be repeated next Sunday.
When Mini McLaughlin was told that
she was In dancer of dying, she asked
(hut a lawyer be went for, as she wanted
to make her will. The lawyer called
In a prominent American resident of
Havana, who became a witness to the
document.
All the while Miss McLaughlin was
pleading with Father Mendex If It wete
not possible for her to be married before
the time set. Stevens was equally so
llcllous. Last Sunday afternoon, when
deiith seemed ojily a few hours away,
the priest acceded to her wish, although
he knew the marriage would never be
rerognlied in a court.
The excitement of the marriage over
and having achieved her purpose, the
now Mrs. Stevens quickly became
weaker. Monday morning she lapsed
Into unconsciousness lutd died If
asleep at noon. On Tuesday she was
burled. When word of her death
reached Mrs. Ingles, her aunt, at 4 West
29th street, this city, a consultation
was hed,.,and It was decided to have
Mrs. Bttveni's body brought here 1 and
burled In the family plat
OBREGON PUTS
ALL BLAME ON
THE AMERICANS
Commander Entered Par
ral Without Right.
He Declares.
HOUJi OF PROOF HERE.
SAYS GEN. GONZALES
Declares He Will Be Found
at "Front of Devoted
Patriots."
HORDE R SEES PERIL
TO AMERICAN FORCES
Not Enough Troops
Hand for New Expedi
tion. Say Experts.
at
pial 'iiftfe DttpDlci to Th
Mexico cur, April 13 Gen. Pablo
Gonzales, commander of the Federal
district, made public to-night the fol
lowing telegram from Minister of War
Obregon lo (lie offlcei o und men of
the local garrison and at the same time
handed a cojy to the, newspapers:
Querctaro. April IS: With the
object of making; known to ydTTmore
completely the events which have
happened at l"erral. Chihuahua, I
hereby report to you the latest news
which has been received by the War
Office at 10 o'clock to-night, so that
you In turn may communicate the
same to the stibotdlnates of your
commands and give the same all due
publicity.
At 5 o'clock yesterday afternoon
the forces tinder the command of
Municipal President .lose de la l.nz
Herrcra and the Constitutional Gen
erals Garcia and Fernandez, to
gether with a number of ofllcets,
found themselves powerless to re
strain the people, and (is a result an
Inevitable conflict took place, re
sulting In some being dead on both
sides.
All reports Indicate that the
people's Indignation was caused by
the Am-ri'-an forces unexpectedly
entering the city without having
firevlously Rdvloed any of the
authorities and camping In the
Plaza of San Juan de Olos, thus
violating the order which, with
every opportunity and clearness,
had been communicated, namely,
that the said forces were not to
enter any towns, and which order
the American Government had offi
cially accepted.
I expect more detul's which I will
communicate at the earliest oppor
tunity, having already reported this
to the offices of the First Chief.
Affectionately,
Gn.v, Alvaro OnitEGox,
Secretary of War and Navy.
After sending Gen. Obregon's message
to the newspapers Gen. Gonzales issued
the following statement:
He calm. Itestralu your Indlnnatlon.
The hour of proof has come : the Mex
ican people may be sure that 1 shall be
at the front of the most ardent, de
voted patriots.
This morning a lengthy press report
announced for the first time that Ameri
cans had crossed the northern frontier
and that Carranza had decided that'the
time had come to ask their withdrawal.
This caused much comment, but little
excitement, neither Americans nor the
authorities thinking precautions were
necessary. 'However, the public does not
know yet of the Parral Incident,
Eight troop train with First Chief
Carranza and Gen.' Obregon are offi
cially reported as approaching. Three
trains arrived to-night at Tlalnepalitla,
about twelve miles north of Mexico city
on the Central Railway. The rest is
expected there before morning. Car
ranza will remain at Tlalnepantla until
Sunday, when probably he will enter the
capital.
The report of his approach was cir
culated on the streets and all day crowds
of laborers rushed work to complete the
triumphal arches on the principal thor
oughfares preparatory to the ovation.
TROOPS IN PERIL
IN MEXICAN ADVANCE
Kl Paso Sees naasjer to America
From Carransa Forces,
Kl. Paso, Tex., April 13. American
troops have been in Mexico two days
less than a month and the I'sj-ral In
cident Is the first of a disturbing nature
between the Americana and the residents
of Mexico except the bandits, with whom
the Americana have had several fights.
In the past the Americans have kept
out of all Mexican towns and cities, but
It was Impossible to do this at Parral
owing to the nature of the country. The
Americans halted, it Is supposed, to se
cure provisions and water, but finding
their presence resented by the natives
& J sqnora ' r-WAj L,.g9 v
v .... . l400O Troc.p1, 1 PAra?y.....tjPy00
Map showing1 the location of Gen. Pershing's
forces in Mexico and how they are entirely sur
rounded by Carranza troops and outnumbered three
to one. The heavy black line indicates the line of
communications of the United States troop?.
The American forces number about 12,000 on a
375 mile line of communication. There are Carranza
garrisons north, south, east and west of Pershing, the
principal one being at Torreon, where Gen. Trevino
has about 4,000 men.
The numerals on the map indicate the number of
CARRANZA WIRES FIGHTING AT PARRAL
IS GOING ON, MEXICANS BEYOND CONTROL
WASHINGTON, April 13. The Mexican Embassy gave out the following telegrams
received' to-night from the de facto Government at Queretaro:
"Queretaro, April 12, 1916.
"Mr. Eliseo Arredondo, Mexican Embassy.
Washington, D. C.
"Please confer with the Honorable Sec
retary Lansing and inform him that to-day
at 1 P. M. a column of 150 American sol
diers entered the city of Parral.
"The Mayor of the city. Jose de La Luz
Herrera, immediately called the attention
of the commander of this column to the in
convenience of his entering the city, his
soldiers immediately withdrawing, but
when they were leaving the people pro
tested, and the Mayor and military com
manders tried to control them with their
appeals in order to prevent friction, but
owing to the imprudence of a civilian who
fired a shot a general disorder followed, in
which one American soldier was killed and
several civilians were wounded by shots
from the American soldiers.
"Military commanders succeeded in
checking the mob at Maturana to avoid
them from following American troops,
forming a cordon of Constitutional sol
diers. In this connection the Mexican Gov
ernment warned the Government of the
United States from the beginning that it
would be unadvisable for American troops
to pass through cities, due to the impossi
bility of avoiding friction between them
and the people and our forces at an unex
pected moment.
"The American Government, to that ef
fect, agreed to give the necessary instruc
tions to its troops to have them abstain from
occupying any towns. The Mexican Gov
ernment deplores the occurrence, but it was
beyond its efforts to prevent it, and insists
with the American Government on the ne
cessity of withdrawing its troops from our
soil in order not to give room for the alter
ation of the good and cordial relations
started to withdraw and were doing so
whin tired upon. It Is said at the border
that Major Frank Tompkins la in chargo
o'f the squad.
The skirmish at 'Parral Is generally
regarded by military men along the bor
der as Indicative of the danger of pene
trating further Into Mexico without re
enforcements. Occurring as it did Just
at the time the Carranza Government Is
making formal request on the United
States to withdraw from Mexico, the
affair admittedly complicates the situa
tion. Parral waij held for s long time'by
Villa during the Madera regime and
It was at Parral that Villa defeated'
the (Jroico band under Gen. Kmlllo
Campa In 1912. Later when Gen, Ynes
Salasaried an' Ofozco band afaUUthlei
at rml, Villa looted the hunk and
many of the stores and abandoned the
town. Hp was arrested by Gen. Iluerta,
then Madem's leading General, for the
offence and was sent to prison at Mex
ico city for It.
Still the people of Parral ate said
to be more hitter against the Americans
than against Villa, According to the
private stories circulating to-night about
the affair, the Mexicans are said to
have shouted "Viva Villa" while shoot
ing at the Americans,
, While Carranza 'troops did not partici
pate In the clash,,' according to Carranza
claims, and so faYaa Js known the Amer
ican troops dld'flol connect the Carrau
zlstas with the affair, American officers
believe this to have been due entirely lo
Us disciplinary, controli over toe asta
Carranza troops in garrisons situated at various points necessary steps to protect American soldiers and allay trouble.
&bAl& This is taken to mean that the President's first considera
huahua. 5.000; Gen. Culles. northern Sonora, lu.ooo; 1 tion is for the lives of the American troops who are scattered
Gen. Herrera. Satevo. 1.200; Gen. Gavira, Juarez, aionir a line nearlv four hundred miles lontr in Mpvirn
1.800; Gen. Bnrtani, Madero. 800; Gen. Cano. Nami-, alon,1 1 , " 5 . "u"area m"fs ,n eMCO.
quipa, 600; Gen. Cavason. Guerrero, 500; Gen. Du-j The clash occurred at Parral, 37o miles south of the border,
villa, Casas Grandes, 1,200. Rennrti rppflivprl hv the Stnr rinnrtnior.t .il,-n..,lt. ir.l0
Besides these the Arrieta brothers are south of
the American forces in the state of Durango with a
following estimated at about 3,000.
which both countries are obliged to pre
serve. AGUILAR."
"Queretaro. April 12, 191ti.
"Eliseo Arredondo, Mexican Embassy.
Washington, D. C.
"After message sent you by Secretary
for Foreign Affairs Aguilar, the Secretary
of War received a message from Gen. Gu
tierrez, dated at Chihuahua, informing htm
that it had been impossible for military com
manders to check the mob against American
troops who entered Parral, afld that this
evening the fight had continued between our
people and the American forces, that many
deaths had occurred on both sides.
"Gen. Obregon has already given
orders to prevent the continuation of battle,
but the excitement is so great among the
people that I fail to know whether the strug
gle can be stopped. Call on the Secretary of
State and advise him that the occurrence is
due to the unwise action of the American
commander in having entered Parral without
the permission of the authorities, violating
the orders of that Government, forbidding
the occupation of towns by American forces.
"Please cause the Secretary of State to
see that it is unwise for American troops to
remain any longer on our soil, as more serious
incidents than the present one. which we
must avoid at all costs, may develop. Please
make use of any arguments you may deem
advisable to put an end to the situation
created by the presence of American troops
in our territory. I will' keep on advising you
through the Foreign Office of any further
incidents.
"V. CARRANZA."
"EL PASO. Tex.. April 13, 1016. Gen.
Gavira informs me that last night about
140 American soldiers tried to enter Parral.
The people protested, and it appears that the
garrison did also. Several persons were
killed on both sides.
"ANDREAS G. GARCIA."
whlclr the Carranza
exeielse.
"fllteis weie ablt lo
It became known to-night that Gen,
Hell bad Instructed a number of scouts
to hold themselves within teleginph rail
and to be ready for a summons at any
inlniiti It was said that this could have
but one meaning, and that was another
possible expedition Into Mexico. ,
However, It Is known theie arc not
sufficient t loops on the border for sueh
an expedition without the calling of mill
tla to replace them. Gen. Hell heard a
report to-day that heavy artlllcrj '...d
been hi ought Into Juarez, hut Investiga
tion bhowed this to be untrue The
largest piece of nitlllciy in Mexico is not
Com (sued on Second Vagi,
Major Tompkins Ordered to Get Out of Parral
Mob Attacks Him as He Goes, Killing:
Trooper Battle Is Renewed
on Outskirts.
GARRISON OF TOWN BELIEVED
TO HAVE JOINED IN THE FRAY
j First Chief Insists American Troops Had No Permission
I to Cross Border Will Stay in for a Time,
U. Si Officials Declare.
WASHINGTON, April 13. American troops have clashed
with Carranzista sympathizers in Mexico, with the result that
many are reported killed on both sides and n crisis has been
precipitated which brings the United States to the verge of war
or immediate withdrawal of its forces south of the border.
The character of the American expeditionary force haa
changed from a punitive expedition in a friendly country to an
unwelcome force in hostile surroundings. The de facto Gov
ernment has warned the United States it cannot control the
populace.
This is the news flashed here to-night. All eyes are on the
President, who recognizes the extreme gravity of the situation,
but is keeping his own counsel.
The only indication so far of the President's next move
came in a statement made public late to-night by Secretary of
War Baker, who said he had directed Gen. Funston to take all -
, -,
that anti-American feeling in
1 The War DeDartment has the
dondo, Ambassador Designate
Washington, indicating that it
(lame.
IVar fur I . V 'I rmips.
Ann ofliiers are deeply roiuerned
about the safety of the small Ameri
can force, a scant 10,000, far removed
front stKvor ami in the heart oi a
country now auniim illy hostile to their!
ptesenre.
Swift dei Islon. one way or the other,
Is demanded of Vuhlngton, according
'to official hcie and iii'-inlx-i s of the j
Senate and House. Nothing would be
mote likely to piove disastrous, they
ay, than indecision, The outburst ,
has funic on the lieols of Catrnnza's
demand that the American ttoup bo
withdrawn, and the Ptesldent is called
on either to maintain the Ametlcun
force in defiance of Gen. t'atrunza or
withdraw It.
Whether the Ameiican tiuops will
be withdrawn from Mexico probably
i will lie decided at to-moi row's Cab
inet meeting. Secretary Tumulty
made the statement at the White
House to-day that the expedition will
.
not be abandoned. It
later that Mr. Tumulty merely niced
his personal opinion and did not speak
lor the President.
Among leaders in I'onglPsi the be
lief seems to be unite sener.il that the
I'lilted States should adopt a more
aggressive policy in de.iung with Me.
I n ami Mexican affairs.
The opinion is genet, il tant unless
Hie American troops are withdrawn
i linin Melco war will follow
. tVmsivs leadeis appeal to l- con
fident that the. I'lesldeilt will nilheie
to the pin pose he proclaimed when he
auuoiim ed that Aiueilc.in troops had
, been sent across the bolder to "get
Villa '
Will tn In fur n lille.
Sedeu.iv of War Hake,- made a
statement to-ulRlit in which he said
i that for the ptcsent at least Pershing
, , . . ,
won III lontmue to operate under or -
den. heretofore Issued
llers Mil. totoe Issue.
III announcing to-night that he had
,, . i ,i , ,. ,, i
directed .M. jo.-Gen. Funston o 'take
, whatev er steps nre necessa. " for the
I protect op of Anieilcau forces at Par-
, ., '. . .. ... ,,
ra the Secietary o War sa d-
, , . .i ... ,
i "I telegraphed to Gen. Funston the
,. r i. ,..,.,i,. i,...i...i
oy .ir. .vi o iihiiiiii .inn uii t-ci-ti nun i
to take all tin ess.n y steps tu piotect
! our soldiers and allay further trouble.
nnd then wire piomptly all obtainable
facts."
Tlm Setiet.it') of Win would not
state how far Gen I'unston might go
In rallying out these orders or
! whether lie would lie jiisnllcd in seiz
ing the McMcaii railroads Swr the
I tiaiisportatiou of additional troops,
, "Necessity," said Secretary Halter.
"is the only limit to his authoi ity."
Ilcgitrding the oliurue made m the
telegram from the Carranza Govern
ment that the American nillltaty com
tliiindei had violated his Instructions
in entering Parral without permission
of the local authorities Secretary
Maker staled that at the time the
troops arrived at Casus Grandes lie
had announced that no .Mexican towns
would bo "occupied," but that he had
not announced that they would not be
permitted to enier such towns.
"I feel sure," said thn Secretary,
"that no American troops have at
tempted to occupy any town. And it
U a iiiesllon whether a (one uf leO
men entering a town of 15,000 people
- .lc
Mexico is rapidly spreading.
same advices from P.lier. Arro.
of the Mexican Government in
has already been fanned into a
could be stated to b. an attempt at
occupation,"
Secretary Maker ixpivmiI the hope
that the report), concerning- the out
bteak at Parral were exaggerated, but
he would not say whether ho believed
the Incident was staged to Impress the
American Government with tlm neces
sity for withdrawing from Mt.xioo.
Vend More Soldiers.
Sei.a.or lialllnger. llepubllcan leader
of the Senate, declined that with
drawal of the troops would lie a hu
miliation to the whole count! and
urged thnt more soldlets be ent to
Mexico instead Ills opinion has strong
backing lit his putty.
Senator Stone, ili.ilniian of the
Foreign A ft ,t Irs Committee, and other
Democratic leaders are waiting for the
President's decision hefnie expressing
themselves. All tegmd the .situation
as most ulilcal and events of the next
i fort V.oll-llt 1,.,,,,-. ,,.m I... ... ...I.U
was explained!:, " v "" ""-"
Opinion Is general that if the Amer
I nn foioe lemains in Mexico it should
at once be reenfoiced and protected
against possible annihilation by a
thoiouglil aroused Mexico whion
wiuld have the armed assistance of
every political . h.eftain or bandit.
There Is a fear that it mn need
ptotection In case hostile outbursts
should accompany Us retreat back t.
tile border, hut t'le I'lilted Stairs has
piacticall.v no tiuops to provide that
K. p X , t
llesides -l.iiOn troops siatteied alum:
the count!) ami ls.uuu whose pre,
euce H now doubly ueedt d "n the bin
tier there are no American fortes tha;
could be called on for anv immediate
.,, , ,
. ,.,,., "J
I ..... ' ' "'
it II I .1 1 ii iiiiii i .III, 111- 111 .MClill
' . . ' '.
, WW ,n:" 11 " ltlon fl the
' Ptesldetit to decide I If tlioso who
. ..,..
Mi d express n up ii p. however, niosi
, ;
M 1
t.i, , , .
I he trend of o union nn hi-,i e( iha
u.,,,,, .. ., , . ,, '
"he House would tatloo' sustain th
h.,aM, , , . ,, , ' '
. I'lcildcut 111 a decision t.. coiitinu.
against Villa, despite
the objection of I'airauza tli.in to
abandon the punitive cpcilitioii
j Many llinio rneinbeis ne agreed
that only two ionises of actum were
, open, either In loutiiiue opemtion
! In .Mexico ami to tako such piciMiitiinx
'a ma) he iioieai) to sali-muni mi
expedltlnnaiy force l.v sending add.
; tloiial troops io tli,. border, m to with
draw the troops nltogelbei (,nd ion-
fess that Ihe expedition ii.nl luen a
failure.
The '.ntlcr prospect doe not appeal
to the Petnocrats. nor ie n looked on
with approval h Hie Republicans
it'll, i hlnion tlts, t .I.,..,, ,.........
" ' '.iioi. i..!'',ii Licit
of tirm character for the predicament
which now confionis id, rutted
States.
Reports reieived it t the Smic fie
partment lute to-iulit from l:l Paa.)
report rnmlitnfi all along Hie bonier
and partlcnlai U at thai .-it) as con
siderably disturbed by t lii news of I .e
light at I'aiia. While no 'utliglr
demonstrations ,ue repot n-d the Mom
,'un population in 111 Pus, i s en pi ,
h coiislderiibl) I'Sclted and appr. n i .
son of troiiine i!,M.
The lighting In piotcs, n-twe. n
Vrri'P...-r'iiifa
