THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, APRIL 14, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVI, NO. 330
INFANTRY QUIET
BUT ARTILLERY
PRACTICALLY CERTAIN
GERMAN SUBMARINE
ATTACKED SUSSEX
IS STILL 1GTI
Unfavorable Weather Is
Hindering Infantry Oper
ations In Vicinity of Ver
dun Though Has Been
Heavy Work by Artillery
-
SENATORS TO SUPPORT
ROADS AID BILL
RUSSIANS HOLD
(1KKMANS IN CHECK
Germans In Lake Narocz
and Ikskul Bridgehead
Positions Fail to Make
Any Advances Against
the Russians
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Hefore Verdun the infantry has re
mained inactive, and only in the sec
tors to t lie northwest, embracing Hill
"04 ami the front from l.e Mort llonime
to Cumieres, has there been heavy work
by the artillery. Berlin reports that
unfavorable weather is hindering in
fantry operations.
The Germans ill the Lake Nareoz anil
Ikskul Bridgehead positions on the
Russian front have ininle attempts to
advance against the Russians, after
preparatory bombardments. In each
instance, according to Petrograd, they
were repulsed. Near Baranovichi the
Russian infantry essayed an attack an
the Germans, but was driven back.
On the Austro-Italian line the usual
bombardments and infantry attacks at
various points continue. In Asiatic
Turkey the Turks have delivered pow
erlul counter attacks in the Caucasus
region against important positions re
cently captured from them by the Rus
sians. Their attempts failed, according
to Petrograd.
Five additional vessels have met
with disaster, as a result of mines or
submarines. The British steamers
Robert Adamson ami Angus anil the
Rritish bark Inverlyon have been sunk
by submarines, while a Danish vessel
named Dorothea has been sunk by a
mine and the Dutch steamer Colombia
damaged by a mine.
A semi-official dispatch from Berlin
calculates the French losses up to the
present in the fighting around Verdun
at 150.000 officers and men. The Brit
ish losses in the fighting with the
Turks at Sannayiat, April 0, are de
clared officially to have been much be
low :!00o the figure given in the Turk
ish statement announcing the defeat of
the British column.
Special to The Republican
WASHINGTON, D. C. April 13. 1
Senator liankhead gave notice in
the senate today that he would
j move the consideration of the fed-
eral aid bill bearing his name to
aid the states in the construction
and maintenance of post roads or
I roads that may lie used as post j
roads, immediately after the vote
on the army bill which is fixed
for April IS. Senntors- Smith and
Asliiirst are giving the bill their j
j earnest attention as under it the
state of Arizona would receive as
j much as $3!iX,0U0 of an annual up-
propriation of $25,000,000 for road i
construction and maintenance. !
Evidence In Hands of State
Department and Admis
sions In German Note
Make .Situation Delicate
Step May Follow
WILSON PRAYS
fill I R HI!
INTO QUARREL
CARRANZA WANTS AMERICAN
TR
Lull in Verdun Battle
PARIS, April II!. Another lull has
fallen on the Verdun battlefield, as the
Germans have been obliged to pause
in order to fill up the gaps in their
ranks, to replace damaged guns and to
bring up munitions preparatory to fur
ther onslaughts. It is believed that the
French command is not likely to mod
ify its methods. General Retain is said
to be finite satisfied as long as the Ger
mans go on losing three times as many
men as the French for unimportant re
sults, as he knows that he has ample
reserves to press a counter attack on
a large scale when the opportune time
arrives, and stocks of ammunition
which are practically inexhaustible.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 13. President
Wilson, speaking at a Jefferson day
banquet of democrats from all parts
of the country here tonight prayed that
the United States would not be drawn
into a quarrel not of its own choosing,
but asked if the people were ready to
go in where the interests of America
were coincident with the interests of
humanity and have the courage to
withdraw when the interests of human
ity had been conesrved.
He was interrupted by cheers and
shouts of "yes."
During his address the president had
mentioned the European war and the
Mexican question, without intimating
what were his plans in either of the
' problems confronting the United States.
He declared that in the present situ
ation the responsibility was with the
democratic party because that party
controls th government and that "it
is for us" to hold the balance even and
not to allow some malign interference
to depress op.e side or the other.
Most of the speech was devoted to
reviewing the achievements of the dem
ocratic party during the last three years
and to a criticism of the republicans
as the party with "a provincial spirit."
The president asserted that the nation
was better prepared than ever before
to show how America can lead the way
along the path of light.
The president declared that he was
not interested in personal ambition.
nor even over party success, but he was
interested in seeing the load depress
ing humanity lifted. He mentioned
none of the republican leaders by name,
but when he spoke of ambitious men
there were shouts of "T. R."
"What the nation demands now," the
president said, "Is service and essen
tially non-partisan, not only in connec
tion of foreign affairs, but in domes
tic affairs as well.
Referring incidentally to Mexico he
told of how a man had urged that
Steamship Colombia Damaged
LONDON', April i:t. The Dutch
steamship Colombia, from Bal'imore,
March 2'-', for Amsterdam, put in at
Gravesenil today, having been damaged
by striking a mine in the Knglish chan
nel yesterday.
Picks Up Crew
BARCF.I.ONA (Via Paris), April 13.
The steamer Mnllorca has arrived
litre from Maporca. On the voyage she
picked up the crew of the British
steamer Oi lock Head which had been
torpedoed.
RAILS AT $33 TOM '.-"l
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 13 The Unit
ed States is disposed to consider that
Germany, in the latest submarine note
practically admitted one of her sub
marine commanders is guilty of tor
pedoing the Channel steamer Sussex.
President Wilson and Secretary Lan
sing today examined the oficial text
of the communication from Berlin and
are known to have reached this con
clusion although no announcement was
made.
Unless Germany admits unequivocal
ly the attacking of the Sussex which
hud aboard more than a score of Amer
ican citizens and inflicts adequate pun
ishment upon the comander of the sub
marine and in other ways show ev
idences nf gooil faith, action of a dras
tic nature undoubtedly will follow. De
tails of the policy to be pursued are
expected to be formulated at the meet
ing of the cabinet tomorrow.
The asumption of Germany's admis
sion of guilty is founded upon the
marked similarity of the circumstances
surrounding the explosion which dam
aged the Sussex and the attack upon a
steamer in the channel described in
the German note. The date, time, and
locations are practically the same. The
damage done by the torpedo fired by
the submarine and the explosion which
wrecked the Sussex are identical. The
ourse being followed by the Sussex and
the vessel mentioned in the note are
similar.
The only difference in the two ver
sions, that of Germany based upon the
report of a submarine commander, and
that of the United States, founded upon
reports of the British and French gov
ernments, affidavits of survivors, anil
investigations by American naval, dip
lomatic and consular officials, is found
I in the description of the Sussex and in
the description of the vessel ata-ked
by the submarine, based upon a sketch
made by the submarine commander
while peering through his periscope.
It is considered that the slight vari
ations in the two Hides of the case very
well can be reconciled.
Following the receipt recently of
press dispatches announcing that the
German government flatly denied re
sponsibility for the explosion which
destroyed the Sussex, it is believed the
case United States was preparing
against Germany warfare would have
to be based upon the accumulation of
illegal attacks rather than largely up
on the disaster to the channel steamer.
It is now being revealed upon just what
contentions and arguments Germany
bases her denial or responsibility, the
administration considers that the case
of the Sussex is stronger than ever.
Secretary Lansing today had nearly
completed the collection of evidence
in regard to the conduit of the sub
marine warfare since the Lusitania
went down. A statement of facts, it
I was said. itriilmtiK will 1 i,.mi1i tn l.t.
brought to the attention of the Ger
man government within the next few
days.
Much of the evidence in the posses
sion of the state department regarding
WITHDRAWN AND SAYS
E VILLA MMSEO
LLPURSU
AGOSTA SMS
WILL NO LINGER
FIGHT YANKEES
(Continued on Rage Five)
(Continued on I'age. Five)
HSPLUF1MII
ENDUGHTD DEFEND RIGHTS
Republican A. P. Lsased Wire
NF.W YORK, April 13. The United
States Steel Corporation announced to
day that after May 1 contracts placed
for Bessemer and open-hearth steel
rails for deliverey after May 1, 1917,
will be at the rate of J33 a ton. Tho
present price of $28 a ton has prevailed
for thirteen years.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire !
WASHINGTON, April 13. Agita
tion for a greater navy at the expense
of army increases marked the last
day of general debate in the senate
today on the army re-organization
bill. Senator Stone, chairman of the
foreign relations committee made a
plea for a navy big enough to fight
offensively on the high seas to de
fend American rights anywhere in
the- world, and Senator Borah, on the
republican side, urged that the fed
oral volunteer and national guard pro
visions of the Chamberlain bill both
be sacrificed in order to add to the
Throwing Blame For Bank
Troubles On Banker's Son
of the country's naval
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DF.NVER, April 13. A Jury was se
cured late today and opening state
mtnts of the defense and prosecution
completed in federal district court,
where W. P. Slaughter of Dallas, Tex.,
former president of the closed Mercan
tile National bank of Pueblo, Colo., is
being tried on charges in connection
with the financial difficulties of the in
stitution. The case was brought to
Judge R. E. Lewis' division of the fed
eral court here upon motion of former
United Slates Senator Joseph W.
Bailey of Texas, who, as chief counsel
for Slaughter, argued that the defend
ant had received threatening letters
prior to the closing of the case in
Pueblo on April 6. and that a fair trial
had not been had.
In his opening statement, Mr. Bailey
asserted the defense would not contro
vert any evidence that the forgeries
had been committed, and that funds
of the bank had been misapplied. The
blame he placed upon Coney C. Slaugh
ter, son of the accused anil former
cashier of the bank, who, he stated,
had not only forged his father's name,
but had incurred "fraudulent and fic
titious credits which he passed into his
father's private account to serve his
own purposes."
Coney C. Slaughter is a fugitive from
justice.
Harry B. Tedrow, United States dis
trict attorney, stated that the elder
Slaughter was president of tho insti
tution at the time'it was closed, about
a year ago. He said also that W. B.
Slaughter had benefitted to the extent
of $7E,000 through collections of three
fictitious drafts sent to banks in the
cast for collection.
The taking of testimony in the ease
Is expected to begin tomorrow morn
ing. J
extension
nines.
In the course of his speeches, Sen
ator Stone criticized both Great Bri
tain and Germany. He declared they
were equally guilty- of offenses against
the peace and well being of mankind,
the former because of its policy of
"navalism" anil the latter because uf
its "militarism," while he deplored
any program that could be construed
as either navalism or militarism in
the United States, the Missouri sena
tor said he was for adequate defense
and thought the navy was far more
important than the army.
Both Senators Stone and Borah ad
vocated a reasonable standing army.
When asked if he thought the United
States had an adequate force in case
"unpleasantness" should follow (le
vel ipments in Mexico, the former
said he thought an adequate force
speedily could be procured for an
emergency.
Senator Borah was emphatic in his
championship of the navy, not only
as the -first line of national defense
but also as the last line of defense.
Senators Tillman, Smith of Georgia,
and Owen supported the amendments
of Senator Smith of South Carolina
and Underwood of Alabama to pro
vide for government nitrate plants to
furnish materials for the manufacture
of explosives. Senator Owen, how
ever, .opposed a section of the Under
wood plan which would permit the
secretary of war to iease the pro
poser plants to private capital in time
of peace for manufacture of fertilizer.
Senator Tillman criticized senators
who opposed the constitutionality of
the nitrate plant.
The senate failed to reach a vote
on the nitrate amendments tonight,
and beginning tomorrow the 10 min
ute rule on debate will be enforced
until Tuesday afternoon when' the
senate by agreement must beg.h to
vote on .all amendments and 'final
passage of the bill. f
republican A. P. Leased Wire
l'KHSHINO'S ('AMI' AT l'kiiN'T,
April 7, i by aeroplane and mtorcycle
couriers to Columbus, X. M., April
13). A report reaching here from
Mexican sources last night was that
Julio Agosta, a Villa leader near
Guerrero had declared lit- would no
longer fight against Americans. Agos
ta lias been considered one of Villa's
most steadfast men. His announce
ment, if true, is taken as strength
ening the reports that Villa has met
serious defection among his own
people.
A conference of considerable sig
nificance, and of unusual picturesque
ness tool; place here today when Gen
eral Luis Herrera. commander of the
Carranza army, called upon General
Pershing.
The meeting took place in the mid
dle of a yellow grass dried mesa, five
miles broad and twenty miles long.
with mountains walling all sides, and
a grass fire ranging up the sides of
a nearby mountain curtaining the
eastern sky with smoke. The two
staffs set in the open, in a circle on
cracker boxes aril bacon tins, the
only available chairs in the Ameri
can headquarters camp. A hot sun
blazed on the tins and flashed from
the silver buckles on the leather
cbappejoes encasing the legs of the
Mexican officers. The Americans
wore the regulation olive drab. A
hedge of dried yellow daisies. Gen
eral Pershing's wind break, and a
rectangle of cot tonwixxl boughs laid
on the ground marked the outline of
General Pershing's "quarters" where
ithe conferees sat. A boy could have
stepped over the houghs. Part of
General Herrera's personal body
guard stood with their horses out
side (he boughs. American troopers
held the horses of the Mexican staff.
It was the first meeting by General
Pershing, since he crossed the border,
with a general of (he Mexican staff.
Herrera had arrived with twenty-five
men. several hours earlier at the
ranch houses about a mile from the
American camp. His first greeting
there was from an American private.
ealvaryman, who was at the ranch
trying to buy food. This private
walked up to the Mexican, whose
coming into this region was unan
nounced anil hehl out his hand in
greeting to the general, of who":e
rank he was ignorant. General Her
rera shook hands.
Herrera then sent word by hi:; staff
to General Perishing that be bad
arrived on bis v.av with a personal
body guard from Chihuahua to San
ta Rosalia to the south of here to as
sist in the hunt furcVilla. The con
ference. General Pershing said this
afternoon, was very pleasant. Gen
eral Herrera, he said, told him about
the disposition of Mexican troops and
inquired about the positions of some
of the American columns. Shortly
before sunset. Herrera and his escort
rode out of camp to rejoin his troops
who he said were already on the way
to Santa Rosalia. lie said be bad
several hundred men.
i ne American scouts in camp
watched General Herrera with much
interest. They said they had been
reliably informed about two weeks
DENIES PERMISSION EVER GIVEN FOR
AMERICAN FORCES TO CROSS BORDER
TO AVENGE VILLA RAID ON COLUMBUS
While Carranza Is Urging Recall of Expeditionary Force, the American
Troops In Mexico Have Their First Battle With Natives News of
Clash at Parral Reaches Washington Too Late for Senate or House to
Hear About It Before Adjournment Subject of Withdrawal Will
Be Considered By Cabinet Today and Congress, While Discussing It,
Is Expected to Leave Administration Free to Handle Situation for the
Present
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
MEXICO CITY, April 13. The Mexican government today sent to
its ambassador in Washington a note for delivery by him to Secretary
j Lansing asking American troops to withdraw from Mexican territory, and
that the pursuit of Francisco Villa be left to the Mexican constitutionalist
army.
The note contains about five thousand words. It insists that because
the American troops crossed without permission, they should withdraw
until a formal compact can be entered into between the two governments.
It insistently affirmed that previous notes of the Mexican government em
phasized the fact that permission for reciprocal crossing was granted only
in the event of a repetition of the raid similar to that of Columbus, N. M.
American troops in Mexico have had their first battle with the natives
at the moment General Carranza is urging their withdrawal.
On Wednesday night while General Carranza's note was on its way to
Washington, troopers of the Seventh cavalry, under Major Tompkins,
were fired upon in Parral, a Villa stronghold, in western Chihuahua, pur
sued to the suburbs while the Carranza garrison took a doubtful part in
,!, -l .,1-1 ll 1 1
the atiray, and were attacked again during tne mgnt.
01 AGIST IT i
U.S.LINEBF C1IIA1
Leased Wire
April 13. From
points near the
line great
(Continued
Tage Five)
Funston Says Fall
Did Injustice In
The Thirteenth
Republican A. P.
SAX ANTONIO,
Columbus, x! M., to
Chihuahua -I Mirango static
vigilance was maintained for fear of
attacks, since Carranza had requested
the American troop withdrawal which
went up and down the line of com
munications to the camps of the de
tached cavalry columns that have
penetrated th bills and mountains
beyond Parral in their search for
Villa.
No official coniniun'n'at ion went to
them and will not until the war de
partment has communicated the news
and its wishes to General Funston,
but orders have been sent from here
to take all precautions against attacks.
General Funston received no report
from General Pershing regarding the
reported Parral incident and late
todaybe knew no more of that de
velopment than was contained in the
report sent forward by Consul Letch
er from Chihuahua and that given
in press dispatches irom Washington.
His information from Consul Letcher
indicated that both garrison and pop
ulace had fired upon the detachment
of 140 American troops when they
entered Parral and that the fire had
been returned. !
It was assumed that the command-
ing officer of the American detach
ment was Major Tymkins, who, it
.was believed might be having diffi
culties in getting his reports of the
'incident back to General Pershing.
Maior Tomnkins had with him no
field wireless and a courier would
I have been necessary for the trans
j mission of his report.
That a conflict between American
troops and Mexicans other than those
'of Villa's organization had occurred,
was regretted at headquarters, but
.confidence was expressed of the abil-
iity of the commander of the detach
ment that entered Parral to exjilain
ithe incident satisfactorily. All offi
cers in the expeditionary columns
have been cautioned not to provoke
; conflict with peaceful residents of
i Mexico or with troops of the de
facto government and officers at
headquarters do not believe that the
in" (incident at Parral will alter the
said titude of the men in the field.
result of aggression by a Mexican
force.
I'ntil ordered to act otherwise,
General Pershing will continue un
interruptedly and without material
change of plan his pursuit of Villa,
but he also will be expected to carry
out General Funston's orders issued
today to look closely after the guard
ing of his lilies of communication
and investigate carefully all Mexican
troop movements in his vicinity,
whether they be the movements of
Villa troops or those of the de facto
government.
General Funsfon said late today
that he had ordered scouts to watch
for the forces of General Arnulfo
Gomez, reported yesterday to be pre
paring to move southeast towards
Casas Gmniles, with the ostensible
intention of joining in the pursuit of
Villa. From the direction which army
officers thought Gomez would take, if
he does move, it was pointed out the
general could cut the American line
of communication.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., April 13. "A
great injustice to the officers and men
of the Thirteenth cavalry" was the
way General Funston characterized
the recent declarations of Senator
Fall in report he sent today to the
adjutant general at Washington. Gen
eral Funston's report to the adjutant
general was in effect a reply to the
criticism that Senator Fall made of
the conduct of the troops 'at Colum-
bus, when that town was raided a!
month ago by Villa.
General Funston explained his re
joinder by saying that Colonel Slocum
now was far in the interior of Mexico
and unable to reply for himself. He
declared that almost every stICement
in Senator Fall's declaration was
false. He declared that after the first
shot of the sentry the remainder of
tho garrison was in action in about
five minutes. He denied that the
residents of Columbus had aided ma
terial!;' in the defense of the town
styling Senator Fall's assertion that
they had dono so as "rubbish'
etead of losing 1 00 horses he
the actual number was 45, a large part ,fi0ers here are confident that
of which has been recovered. j conflict that might come will be
Complete information regarding tho
losses to the American troops or to
the Mexicans at Parral had not
reached Washington tonight. Secre
tary linker informed President Wil
son that a brief dispatch to the war
department said that according to
unofficial reports one American cav
alryman was killed and that five
troops had used machine guns
against the Mexicans.
Mr. Baker announced later that he
had ordered General Funston to take
any steps that might be necessary
to prevent further trouble. When
asked whether this might mean the
enforced use of Mexican railroads
for the movement of soldiers and
supplies, he said General Funston was
on the ground and would act in any
emergency. The secretary expressed
the hope, however, that the trouble
at Parral was purely local and did
not presage further difficulties.
General Carranza, directing his em
bassy here to point out that the. clash
proved his contention that the pres
ence of American troops in Mexico
is leading to a situation which
threatens to go beyond his control.
telegraphed that many deaths had oc
curred on both sides.
Foreign Minister Aguilar, in a dis
patch sent before that from Gen
eral Carranza, said one American
trooper was killed and several citi
zens were wounded.
Consul Garcia, the Carranza agent
at El Paso, wired the embassy that
(Continued on Page Two)
it
What Will Washington Do?
Question Asked In El Paso
ni
Republican A. P Leasid Wire
EL PASO, Tex., April 13. El Paso
is in a state of tense anticipation to-
gbt.
riots, in which big mobs took part and
which have been going on spasmod
i ically for the last two days, were de
scribed in a message received here by
-'K.. ...ill ii'n..i.:..,.in., .irt'l' i
ii. ll vwn iianiiiiisiuu uu- . nn Amnricon minim- mncom with
was the question on every lip. and was I iars,e interests iii Aguas Calientes. The
so absorbing a subject, of speculation J message said looting had been carried
at-
Of-any
the
that evetvthing else faded into insig
nificance. The news of the clash at Parral be
tween American soldiers and Mexicans
was followed by reports of serious
rioting at other points in Chihuahua,
hut in none of these other incidents
were American soldiers said to be in-
on extensively and much properly had
been destroyed.
As far as this section of the border
is concerned, the . news of Carranza'3
request for the withdrawal of the
troops has not caused any open dis
turbance. Juarez maintained its cus
tomary placid attitude, and the Mex-
volved. The riots were said to be due I leans on both sides of the river seemed
principally to economic conditions and i far less excited than the Americans,
not primarily political. The scarcity j XTndisturbed by the day's develop
of food in the cities of northern Mex- I mcnts, EI Paso business concerns sent
ico has been growing steadily greater j another trainload of supplies to Casas
u:d in many places the masses of the I Grandes over the Mexican Northwest-
people are said to be practically on the
brink of starvation.
The worst rioting was reported far
to the south, in Aguas Calientes, cap
ital of the state of that name. Food
em railroad. Tho supplies, which will
find their way into the hands of the
field base quartermaster, included three
cars of oats, four cars of gasoline and
two of commissary goods.
i
