V
WEATHER fff
m 4
MARKETS
Arizona Friday and
Saturday generally fair
and warmer.
r w YORK CITV
verage price of cop
per for week ending
April 12, 27.25.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. IS, No. 275.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, APRIL 14, 1916
PRICE FIVE iCENTS.
F
RST
EF ASKS 1
R! AIM F
:D STATES II WITHDRAW TROGPS Fip,WJ TERRITORY
. . ( " - . "
St
OlLDwS
HEELS OF
REQUESTING If HL
Washington Officials Hope That Affair in Western Chihua
hua Was Purely Local in Character. Possibility of Small
Detachment Being in Danger is Considered by Military and
Civil Authorities. Cabinet Will Discuss Situation 1 omorrow.
EL PASO LG0IIC
TOii THE
CAPITAL F01I
Pershing Confers
With Gen, Herrera
AtAmericanCamp
J Julio Acosta, Formerly Villa
supporter, Deserts the Ban
dit, Says Rumor. Mexican
and Americans Talk.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON, April 13. American troops in Mexico have had their
first battle with the natives at the moment General Carranza Is sugge tins
their withdrawal.
On Wednesday night while General Carranza's note was on its way to
Washington, troopers of the Seventh Cavalry under Major Tompkins were
fired upon in Parral, a Villa stronghold " western Chihuahua; were pur
sued to the suburbs while the Carranza garrison took a doubtful part in
Hip affair, and were attacked again during the night.
Complete information regarding the losses to the1 American troops or
to the Mexicans had not reached Washington tonight. Secretary Baker in
formed President Wilson that a brief dispatch to the War Department
said that, according to unofficial reports, one American cavalryman was
killed and that the troops used a machine gun against the Mexicans.
Mr. Eaker announced later that he had ordered General Funston to
take any stops thpt might be necessary to prevent further trouble. When
asked whether this might mean the enforced use of Mexican railroads for
the movement of soldiers and supplies, he said General Funston was on
the ground and would act in any emergency. The secretary expressed
the hope, however, that the trouble at I'arral was purely local and did not
anticipate any more difficulties.
General Carranza directed his embassy here to point out that the clash
proved his contention that the presence of American troops in Mexico
is leading to a situation which threatens to go beyond his control.
Foreign minister Aguilar. in a dispatch sent from General Carranza,
said one American trooper was killed and seven citizens were wounded.
Consul Garcia. Ihe Carranza agent at El Paso, wired the embassy that
several persons were killed on both sides." His dispatch added that
when the American troopers entered Parral, "the people protested and It
appears the garrison did also."
This latter statement is in direct
contradiction to the dispatches of
Carranza and Aguilar, which declared
that the Carranza troops attempted to
hold back the Mexican mobs. A re
port to the state Department from
Consul Letcher at Chihuahua, for
warded through General Funston, said
there had been seme "trouble" at
Parral, when the ' American column
was fired upon by Mexican civilians.
The State and War Departments,
receiving from the Mexican embassy
their first iniormation that the clash
had been a serious one. at once sent?
out orders for a full report. It had I
not been received tonight. I'pon the
President rests the decision of what
the result of the attack upon Admin
istration's policy nhall be, whether it
shall have a bearing on consideration
of Carranza's proposal for the with
drawal of the troops and finally
whether Carranza's proposal shall be
accepted, rejected or negotiated. Mem
bers of his oflicial fnmilv indicated I
tnnicht that it was nraetic-'allv certain i March in Mexico have been disarmed
nn immoiti.iiA order for withdrawal of i Dv lne United States forces, accord
the expedition seeking Villa would be i inK to arrivals at the border tonight,
ifsued. General J. J. Pershing, it was said.
The subject will be laid before the regarded this step as necessary to the
cabinet tomorrow protection of his command since he
Congress will not have an oppor-j has received reliable information tha:
tunity to show its feeling until it ! numbers of Villa's scattered follow
meets at noon tomorrow. News of j ers are infesting the route,
tho attack on American troons reach- Colonia Dublan is being made the
ed the capitol too late for the Senate most important of the long chain of
. . ...... ' hauoo in Xlnvm. Kn ..t.l
or House 10 near aoout it oeiore iney
MEXICANS UPON
LINE OF MARCH
DISARMED
American Commander, Fear
ing Attack From Roving
v Bandits, Disarm Numbers
of Natives.
Great Excitement Prevails in
Border City. Clesh at Par
ral is Another Feature of
Impending Possibilities.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
(By Ryvicw Leased Wire.)
riiilSIHNG't' CAMP AT FRONT.
Apiil T. (ily aeroplane ;:nd mo. or cour
iers to Columbus, M. M.. April IP..) A
report rc.-hing here from Mexican
source.--. last r.ight was that Julio Agos
ta. a Vi!!r. 'eaiier near Guerrero, had
declare'! le would nj longer fight -.
twins Americans. Aausta Ius been
considered one of Villa's most stead-
Ifast men. His annoii'icemer t. it true.
TEUTONS
SUSSEX
8
KlttlSpinal Meningitis
nlillll I EpidemicThreatens
TUL the Warren District
I ML
is
EL PASO. April 13. Kl Paso was j is taken as strengthening the reports
in a state or tense anticipation to-;'h" has met with serious defec-
night. What will Washington do?jiJ" among his own people,
was the question on every lip, and A conference of considerable signi
was so absorbing a subject of speeu-i ficuncc and of unusual pict uniqueness
, . . i t.w.1 V. .1 tnrl.,.. ...I... V 1
lanon mat everyming cise laueu nuo j . i'i- imc iuui uru uninni
insignificance. i i-iiis iicrrern, comm.-maer or tr.e i ar-
The news of the clash at Parral be-rnnza army, called upon General Persh
tween American soldiers and Mexi- ins.
cans was followed by reports of seri- The men in? took place in the mid
ous rioting at other points in Chihua-.dle of e yellow grass dried mesa, five
hua but in none of these other inei-j miles t ror.d. snd twenty miles long,
dents were American soldiers said to! with mountains walling nil side., and
be involved. The riots were said to1 a grn.-s fire raging up the side of a
be due principally to economic ends ne.irhv mountain curtaining the east
ami not primarily political. The scar-jem 'y with smoke. The two staffs
President and Lansing Confer
on the Submarine Contro
versy. Subject will be
Considered Today.
(By Review Leased Wire )
WASHINGTON. April i3. The Un
ited Siates is disposed to consider that
Germany, in the latest submarine note.
praciicul'y sdritted on eof her subJl
marine commanders wits guilty of tor
pedoing the channel steamer Sussex.
President Wilson and Secretary Lan
sing today examined the official text
of the communication from Merlin and
are understood to have reached this
City and County Health Offi-i
cers 1 ake Precautionary
' Measures to Stop Possible
Spread of Disease.
Supplementing his previous or
ders. Dr. Herendeen, city health
efi'icer. late last evening, announc
ed the schools of the District
would he closed. He urged that
the parents co-operate with the
health authorities and keep the
children off the streets.
Di. Heretideen also stated that,
though the meningitis could not
be traced to the milk supply, it
' would be wise for those using it to
bell previously.
It was found that Mexican, by
'. the name of Juan Acosta. who died
at his home on Chihuahua Hill -yesterday,
came to his death by
spinal meningitis. This makes a
total of three deaths from the dis
ease. The soldier who succumbed
was Joseph Kelly. Company I.
Eleventh Infantry.
hollowing the discoverv of four
cerebre spinal
VIGILANCE IS
I iiinnrftnrn
N KH SH
! lllUIILnULU
I IN EVERY
! QUARTER
conclusion although no announcement
war. made. Details of the policy to b well-detined cases of
pursued are expected to be formulated 'meningitis in the Warren District late
at the meeting of the cabinet t,omor-1 yesterday, two of which resulted la
row. .death. Dr. Ralph Heretideen. City'
' i . i t .1 : . I ,, i.i , . . . . I
j ne (osuini'iiiiii ui vitri iiiaiijr n iiuiiim , iieaun t.iniccr, ana ur. i. . ri. Hunt,
city of food in the cities of northern I set in the open, in a circle on cracker j ''ion of guilt is founded upon the mark j County Physician, took immediate
Mexico has been- growing steadily ' rexes ard bacon tins, the only availa-'ed similarity of the circumstances gur- j steps last night to safeguard the corn
greater and in many places the mass-b!e chairs in the American hendquar- j rounding the explosion which damaged j munity and insure auainst a spread of
General Funston Orders Ex
treme Care Taken by Every
Soldier from Columbus Base
to Chihuahua-Durango.
NOTHING OFFICIAL
FROM PERSHING
Aguinaldo's Captor Says "A
Great Injustice to Officers
and Men of 13th Cavalry"
Has Been Done by FalL
the Sussex and the attack upon
Steamer m the channel described in
the German note. The date, time, and
locations are practically the same The
damage done by the torpedo fired by
SAN ANTONIO. April 13. From
Columbus. N. M.. to points near the
Chihuahua-Durango line American
troops increased their vigilance today
against attacks from anv quarter.
a the disease by every means available
to medical science. A third death was
Deing investigated last mslit to as-! Word that Carranza had requested
certain if meningitis was the cause. I the opening of negotiations looking to
All of the cases developed so swift-. their withdrawal went ud and down
trie stiDmanne ana tne explosion mat l ly mat aeiense dv administrating nieui- .the line of communication and for
wrecked the Sussex are identical. The j cine against the disease was impos- ward to the camps of the detarlieil
es or the people are said to ne prac- ters cs - p.
tieally on the brink of starvation. A hot sun blazed on the tins and
The worst rioting was reported far flashed from the silver buckles on the
to the south of Aguas Calientes, cap- lender chapparejos encasing the legs
ital of the state of that name. Food of the Mexican officers. The Ameri
riots in which big mobs took part and jean,, wore the regulation olive drab. A
which have been going on spasmod- hedge of dried yellow daisies was Gan-
ically for the last two days, were ne-,err.I Pershing's windbreak and a rec- course being followed by the Sussex sible and the authorities could not cavalry columns that have penetrated
scribed in a message received here by tr.ngle of cottonwood boughs laid on and the vesfel mentioned in the note j vaccinate. the hills and mountains bevond Parral
an American mining concern witn the ground marked thp outline of den- are similar. In order that an epidemic mar be in their search fdr Villa
large interests in Aguas Calientes. j ern) Pershing's "quar.ers." The only difference in the two ver-1 everted, the Board of Health has is-, No ofliuial communication went to
The message said looting had been; Where the conferees sat. a bov could sions. that of Germany based upon I sued a decree which will be put in them and will not until the Wir lx
carried on extensively and much prop-.i,av strnned over the bmizhs! Pnrtlthe report of a siib-narlne commander, force this morning, closing all niov-! partusent has communicated the new
erty had been destroyed. !of General Hen-era's nersonnl hodv-land that of the United States founded l Ing picture places, theatres, dance and i's wishes lo Geiictal Funston but
As far as this section of the border . p,,lar1 sfoo,i wi,n lhf,jr i.np., outside' on reports of the British and French halls, etc., and proiiibiting the congre- orders ha' e been sent to take all pie-
governmems, affidavits of survivois. i gation or people ;n any and all places, cautions ua;nst attack.
and investigations by American naval ! Discussing the sitnathm,. Dr. Itvren-; Genera! Kunstuu received no report
diDlon.e.tic anil consular officials, is ! 'leen said last night : 'from General Pershing regarding t!.
is concerne-j me new s tu v nrran.u , t), rougnSi American troopers held
request for the withdrawal or Ameri- ,ne IlotJe , tl,p MeXican staff. It was
can troops did not cause any open;.,ie nr.-, K i.... i,
(By Review Leased Wire.)
fOLL'MBUS, April 13. Many- Mexi
cans along the American line of
adjourned for the day.
Carranza's proposal for the with
drawal of the expedition, however,
seemed to meet the general senti
ment that the Administration should
be left free to handle the situation
for the present. Whether the attack
on the troops will alter that view re
mains for tomorrow's developments.
Tonight the situation of the isolated
detachment is the cause of some anxi
ety. Outnumbered and possibly bel
eaguered in ambush in a notoriously
anti-American district and how far
from reinforcements no one here
knows, the troopers may be in grave
danger which only the thin and un
certain lines of communication from
the advance bases of the American
army in Mexico can tell.
Consul Garcia's dispatch to the
embassy follows:
"General Gavira, (Carranza com
mandant at Juarez) informs me that
last nieht (Wednesday) about 140
American soldiers tried to enter Par
ral. The poople protested and it ap
pears that the garrison did also. Sev
eral persons were killed on both
sides."
Secretary Caker conferred with
members of the General Staff at the
War Department tonight. Later he
made this statement:
"I wired General Funston a sum
mary of the statements given out at
the Mexican embassy. I directed him
to take all necessary steps to protect
our people, to prevent further trouble,
and to wire ell details he can get as
fast as possible. I'nfortunately we
have no facts yet. I hope the reports
of the Incident are exaggerated and
that it Is only a local affair."
The secretary declined to state
-hethr General Pershing had orders
to keep his troons out. of Merican
towns in the future. He pointed out
bases in Mexico, the arrivals said
For its protection semi-circular trench
es have been dug. It has concealed
artillery and machine gun batteries.
Some concern has been expressed
by the natives as to the number of
truck trains which have been making
their way to the south. It was said,
the Mexicans apparently believing
each train a new one. The Mexican
estimate of the number of troops in
Mexico was given at 30,000. .
The CarrSnza note asking the
withdrawal of the American troops
from Mexico excited much interest
here but no infoimation was given
out from official sources concerning
any alteration to be made in General
Pershing's campaign.
Definite instructions were received
here today by Mayor W. R. Sample,
commandant, to turn the six wounded
Villistas now prisoners here, over to
the civil authorities in Deming upon
their recovery.
the ' on . f 4. T anfr it
me firAii mi mail. Iiciirifl
I had arrived with twenty-five men, sev
(Oral hours earlier at the ranch house c
ericans. .rbcuf a mile from the American camp.
nd.stuibed by the day . H His firs, greeting there was from an
American private, a cavalryman, who
Casas Grandes over the Mexican
Northwestern railroad. The supplies. !
which will find their way into the:
hands of the field base quartermaster.
disturbance. Juarez maintained
customary piaciu auiiucie ana ine
.Mexicans on ooin smcs oi ine river
seemed far less excited than the
Americans.
V
ments. El Paso business concerns
seiu anouier iramioau in sufiut-s 'vi...... ,h ,,, ,,., , ,,.. .A
i v linn ii u;iiin i yj iJiij iimu.
This private walked up to the Mexican
whose coming into this region was un
announced, and held out his hand in
greeting to the gpneral. of whose rank
! found in the description of the Sussex "Kvery person in the community is reported Parral incident tnd late ti-
and in the description of the vessel at-1 r' si" nuny rrquesieu io neip in uuj ne ne uoining more or rnai a-
taeked by the submarine, based upon 1 meeting wnat nngnt develop into an eiopmeni man wa. contained m the
included three cars of oats, four cars
of gasoline and two of commissary
goods.
CALLES TROOPS
General Arnulfo Gomez, with
Several Thousand Troops
on Border of Chihuahua,
Awaits Instructions.
(By Review Leased Wire ;
DOUGLAS. April 13 General Arnul
fo Gomez, commanding the defacto
Mexican troops on the Sonora-Chilui;i-
hua boundary said today in an inter
view that he is ready to move with
twenty-five hundred infantry and cav-
he wa s ignorant. General
shook hands.
Herrera then sent word by his staff
to General Pershing that he had ar
lived on his way with a personal body
Etiard from Chihuahua to Santa Rosa
lia, to the south of here, to assist in
the hunt for Villa- The conference.
General Pershing said this afternoon,
was very pleasant. Ceneral Herrera,
he spjd. trld him about the disposition
of Mexican troops and inquired about
the positions of some of the American
columns. Shortly before sunset. Her
rera and his escort rode out of camp
to rejoin his troops who he said were
already on the way to Santa Rosalia.
He aid he had several hundred men.
The American scouts in camp watch
ed General Herrera with much inter
est. They said they had been reliablv
In formed about two weeks ago that
Herrera had declared, after the Amer
ican expedition had crossed the bor
der, that if the Americans passed Ca.s
as (.ramlesrhe would join Villa. Since
that lime the Americans have progress
ed so far to the south that Casas Gran
ties is but a short first section of the
American line.
Hen-era',, reinforcements did not ar
rive it is said, and in consequent-.'
Villa's command outnumbered th rnr.
a sketch made by the ubmarine com
mander, while peering through his per
iscope. It is considered that the slight vari
ation" in the two sides of the case
very well could be reconciled.
Following the receipt, recently, of
press dispnlches announcing that the
German government flatly denied re-
Herrera i sponsibility for the explosion which
destroyed the Sussex, It is believed the
case the Uniied States was preparing
against German warfare would have
to
emergency. There is absolutely no- report sent forward hy Consul Lttcher
thing alarming at this time and wr from Cliihuah'ia and that given in
do not want the situation to assume press dispatches Irom Washington,
alarming proportions before every His iniormation from Consul Leu-her
precautionary step has been taken. ' indicated that both garrison and
The order of the Hoard of Health ' populai e had rtred upon the detach
which becomes effective to-morrow nient of 110 American troops when
morning will. I am sure, be obeyed they entered Pairul and the tire had
implicitly by everyone. ; been returned.
"The principal precaution necessary j 11 was assumed ttut the command
is to avoid crowds because anv cont-i inS officer of the American detaih-
I agioua disease is more liable to be meut was Major Tomfcius. who. it
I contracted thereby. The svmptoms of as believed, might be having di:h-
be based upon the accumulation ofi"T. -! """ ' ..." - - - - " " "V " V,. "
lle-il attacks rather than Inrcelv nn-1 lo lnose OI grippe. II a person nas .
ileal attacKs rattier man largely upr ,,,, ,, , hv Major Tomkms had with him no li.l.i
the clisaster to the channel steam- fc vomiting and an achin -" reeling !wle and a courier would have
. It Is now being revealed on just i ne' ,0"',l"1R fn a" 11 ho ,n ne.....,,. .,w...ii....
hat ..,.,, ;.i., ,i , ,,. . : mrougnoui tne oouy. it wouki ne wen ---. ...........
hat contentions and arguments Ger- . ,:ian ,,,:,,, . ot his repoit. That a contlict between
any bases her denial or responsibili- . . . .. ;.' i .(.. n tnu.tw iiM. ..,h.
iir- i nn hiiuh ii luiai , asra limn lai
alrv. through Puloito Pass, into Chi
huahua at any time he is ordered to ! ranzistn.s who tried lo block his path.
do so by Genenl Alvaro Obrcgon, sec- lociay s conference, however, seemed
retary cf war in the defacto cabinet. imiicnte m.n Herre.ra was co-operat
General Gomez said that his column '"P m ,n enase. He asked ma-
is amply provisioned and ready l'or'nv questions about ilia, in fact not
ions campnign. but the order of Ob- ii'pearing io know as much about the
CHINESE EXPRESS FEAR.
PEKIN. China, April 14 Chinese
newspapers express alarm concerning
the reported Russo-Japanese treaty
which is said to grant Japan control
in Far Eastern affairs. The journals
say that Russia's needs of war ma
terials doubtless brought about the
reported agreement.
TRADE BILL PASSES.
re. ent course cr the bandit as the Am
ericans who have been close on his
trail of late. Herrera had heard the
repoit i-t camp today that Villa was
dep.d. but he knew nothing except 1h(
rumor.
The supply train of mules following
cavalry column which went souih
regon which has been anticipated for
several days, has not yet arrived.
It is the personal opinion of Gomez
that he will be sent into Chihuahua
to keet the trail of Villa where the
American punitive expedition drops it.
It appears certain that Villa hau cs-
caned. at least temnorarilv. I"
The next movement must come from j rro,n ",'" yesterday, was tired upon
Gen. Obregon, according to General isveral times some distance out of
Gomez, as he alone has the power toj'' MnP- Th- supply train guard
move troops from one state to another ' "'a!,ed the Mexicans who did Ihe shoot
His movement as far as the Chihuahua linp- '"k'nt 'hem along as prisoners.
border was directed by General P.
Klias Calles, military governor of Son
ora. DOUGLAS. April 13 Three victor
ies gained over the Rroncho Vaqui In
dians in Sonora within five days, news
of which was received today, by Gen
eral P. Elia, Calles, military governor
of Sonora. caused him to express the
STOCKHOLM, via London, April
14. The war trade bill has passed
both chambers without debate, all
parties agreeing. j opinion that his policy of aggression
The bill aims to prevent Swedish would be vindicated bv a complete vie-
merchants from signing agreements """V fr h rlefartc. troop in a rein-("' ',f'rr Mv 1 ontrarti pHred
I t . a . . . . iivit run mi inn?. i iiv iauui win U I " im rirri
FORBID ALCOHOL SALES.
HER LIN. April 13. (via Ixndon.
Sales of fuel alcohol to retailers or
private persons have been forbidden.
It is hoped that the measure is only
temporary.
on
er.
w
m
ty and the ad ministration considers
tha' the case of the Sussex is strong
er than ever.
Secretary Lansing had nearly com
pleted the collection of evidence on
German submarine warfare since the
Lusitania went down. A statement of
facts, it was said, would be brought to
the attention of the German govern
ment within the next few days. Much'
of the evidence in the possession of
the State Department regarding recent
cases, has to do with the four ships
other than the Sussex, mentioned in
the German note. These were the
Manchester Engineer. Englishman.
Eagle Point and Herwindvale. The
explanation made hy Germany of the
easep are considered unsatisfactory,
the German contentions not agreeing
with the evidence which has been
gathered by the Slate Department.
MEICAN COW THIEVES .. .. .. ..
Six alleged cow thieves, three bro
thers, their father and two brothers-in-law
were executed yesterday mor
ning in Cananea, according to arrivals
in Bisbee last evening. Another quar
teete of thieves were scheduled to
face the tiring squad at sundown last
evening.
The thieves had been operating it
was said in the Janoverachi section,
some distance from Cananea. The ac
ton of the de facto officials, it is said
followed the announeeed intention of
General Calles to eliminate all of the
thieves and criminals from th state
of Sonora. Cananea is very quietM
according to all arrivals.
are those of a woman in Bisbee and I,lau ,u,,se OI "la 8 organization nau
a soldier. One adult and a child" are occurred, was regretted at headquart
stricken. The death under investiea- ers- Dut confluence was expressed in
tion is of a woman. ' tne ability of the commander of the
General personal cleanliness is an ' detachment that entered Parral to ex
important factor in safeguarding Paln ,h!" incident satisfactorily. All
against the disease. Frequent bath- ";t''s ' ' "' rApt-e.niui.-dry column.-.
ing and clean underclothing are help-;
fill preventatives.
The prompt discovery of the pres
ence of meningitis in the communitv
enables the health authorities to deal
with it in a manner which will save
the Warren District from needless
alarm.
I STEEL GOES UP
NEW YORK. April 1:1. The United
fates Steel Corporation announced fo-
.iikjnaj -..j .h. a,.i t,. Irai s lor rlehverv after Miv I ion
. - . , j:t -i n ii u w 1 1 ii ci 1 1 'j iiit? ii' jut iif i i v r 1 1 1 - n nun ... - -. . . i .
mat mueu me rxptruiiion i eariicu , ma v enable fore en nartles to control ; i would he t tho rate nt ii .
Casas Grandes the question arose
(Continued on Tage Two.)
The
MORGAN ART SOLD.
NEW YORK. April VS. Three more
collections of art treasures assembled
by the late J. P. Morgan have been
sold by his son, J. P. Morgan, it was
announced today, to a firm of Fifth
Avenue dealers for $4,000,000.
The transaction included Renais
sance bronzes. 200 pieces; the IJmo
ges Enamels, 150 pieces, and the'llaT
iun Majolicas, 150 pieces.
VANT GREATER
iW AS WELL
AS
Ml
or influence Swedish trade abroad or them will he available for use in other "resent prj.-e of fls a ton has preva'l-
at home. (Continued on Page Three.) 'd for thirteen years.
Senators Stone and Borah
Demand the First and Last
Lines of Defense Be Made
in Navay at Army Expense.
(By Review ' Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. April 13. Agitation
for a greater navy at the expense of
army increases, marked the last dny
of general debate in the Senate today
on the army reorganization bill. Sen
ator Stone, chairman of the foreign
relations commiit-t. made a plea for
a navy big enough to tight offensively
en the high seas to defend Wmerican
Ng'its anywhere in the world, and
Senator Borah, on the Republican sid
urged that the federal volunteer and
national guard provisions of the Cham
berlain bill both he s-riflrel in order
to add to the extension of the coun
try' naval forces.
More than $15,000,000 aready have; In tho course of his speech. Senator
been realized by sales from the collec-'Stone criticized both Great Britain and
tion. the hulk of which still Is on view Germany. He declared they were e
at the e.Mtropolltan Museum of Art. 1 (Continued on Page Two.)
have been cautiomd not to provoke
conflict v itli peaccMil residents of
Niexico or with troops of the de facto
government and oMi.ers at head
quarters do r.ot believe tlm the inci
dent at i'arral wiil al.er the attitude
of the men in ihe held. Officers here
are confident that any conflict that
might come will be the result of ag
gression by a Mexican force.
Until ord'-red to act otherwise. Gen
eral Pershing will continue uninier--ruptedly
and without materia! change
of plan his pursuit of Villa, but he
, also will be expected to carry out
. General Fmiston's orders Issued totUy
, to look closely after the guarding of
i his lines of communication and in
'vestiuate carefully all Mexican troop
movements in his vicinity, whether
! they be the movements of Villa troop
or those of the de fjcto government.
General Funston said late todar
that he had ordered scouts to watch
rr the forces of Ceneral Arnulfo
Gomez, reported yesterday to be pre
paring to move southward toward
Casas Grandes. with the ostensible in
tention of joining in the pursuit of
Villa. From the direction which
army officer thought Gomez would
take, if he does move, it was pointed
out the general could cm the Ameri
can line of communication.
FUNSTON AFTER FALL.
SAN ANTONIO. April IS. "A great
injustice to the officers and men of
the Thirteenth Cavalry," was the way
General Funston charaeterized the re
cent declarations of Senator Fall in
a renort he sent todav to the Adjut
ant General at Washington. General
Funston's report to the Adjutant Gen
eral was in effect a reply to crit
icism that Senator FH mae of the
conduct of the troops at rolnmhn.
when tht town was milled a tnonlh
atro by Villa.
General Funston explained hi re
joinder bv saving that Col. ?1ociitm
now was far in the Interior of Mexico
(Continued on Tage Three)
