rrr
VOL. XLVI
LEXINGTON, LAFAYETTE COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1916.
MHE?. 15.
Kxittgton
ft CC
if '
DEATH OF TILTON i Pir.no-Forte Recital. O'Brien-Campbell. W. P. Roach Sells Main Street
DAVIS, SR. ! The Graduating series by the ; j Mr. Edward O'Brien, Jr., of Property.
Class of 1916, Central College jack: onville, Miss., and Miss W. P. Roach Thursday sold his
His Death Was Due to Paralysis Conservatory of Music, was con-1 Sallie Campbell of Siljam building on the South side of
eluded Saturday evening with a!q
prings, Ark., were
married ?,Iaui street to W. T. Wernvajj '
After an Illness of Several
Months. Piano Recital by Avis McCor-iv0jnoaHav at-o nvwir P M at and R. C. Sheets. Consideration
Tilton Davis, Sr., and old and niick. The young lady present- ;tup uome 0f e bride's srrand- 5-1,000. lie al;;o sold his barber1
Pr-' father, Thomas B Campbell, 'shop equipment to Arnold Kern-
and least of Lexington. Rev. Rich- "er. who has been running a
highly respected citizen of this ed a choice, symmetrical
citiy, died Sunday afternoon at ! gram demanding pianism
2 o'clock at his home after an ill- j musicianship of a high order,
ness of several months of paraly- jThat Miss McCormick possesses
He was eighty-three years the equipment for such a difficult
sis
of age.
Mr. Davis was born December
1, 1883, in Howard County, Mis
souri. He studied law in Louis
ville, Kentucky, and after being
admitted to the bar practiced
his profession in St. Louis, and
afterwards in this city, coming
here in 1862.
Mr. Davis was a very compan
ionable man. He possesed a
very keen and active mind,
stored with a fund of informa
tion gleaned through the years
of experience and reading. He
enjoyed the association of hi?
fellow men and was seldom, if
ever, outshown in repartee or
discussion, no matter what the
subject. He was at all times a
family man, his home life being
one of constant solicitation for
the members of his family
undertaking was manifested in
fluency of execution and appre
hension of musical content. Of
the shorter numbers "On the
Wings of Song," and Mendel
ssohn's Scherzo met with spec
ial approbation. The third con
certo by Beethoven showed an
excellent appreciation of ensem
ble effects. While the brilliant
Cadenza by Reinecke, and the
Erl King gave evidence of gen
uine virtuosity.
The entire program follows:
Deuxieme Scherzo Chopin
Barcarolle, G major Rubinstein
Scherzo, E minor Mendelssohn
On the Wings of Song
Mendelssohn-Liszt
Etude, G flat - Chopin
Concerto C minor (first movement)
Beethoven
With Reinecke Cadenza.
ard W. Wallace, pastor of the oaroer shop on trie nortn side oi
Christian church in this city,-the street. Messrs. Wernwag
performed the ceremony. and Sheets will modernize the
The groom, who formerly lived JuildinSf- T,he bfrber shoP
in Higginsvilile, is now in the be renovated and re-arranged to
employ of the Jacksonville Lum- l he new .uipment which
ber Company, Jacksonville, Miss. .Mr- Kemner Put m-
The bride is a daughter of Mr. ;
and Mrs. B. H. Campbell, now
residing in Siloam Springs
Arkansas. Mrs. O'Brien
IS ALMOST HERE
and
MILADY must be ready for
the EASTER PARADE.
Purchases Insurance Agency.
Miss Mary Lockhart has pur-
hag chased the Insurance Agency of
1 - Liszt
Schubert-Liszt
many friends in and about Lex
ington, who admired her for her
many graces and charm of man-
Louis A. Roy, formerly the Joe
A. Wilson and Bros. Agency,
Miss Lockhart will open an of-
THE HAT IS IMPORTANT.
It Should He
A "GAGE" HAT
AN "ELZEE" HAT
or
ONE OF OUR OWN BEAUTI
FUL CREATIONS
fice in the Basket building about
April 10, occupying room No. 4.
This is not a new line of business
for Miss Lockhart as she has
ner, and wish for them both hap
piness and prosperity.
The happy couple drove to
Hiownsvillp nnH tnnlr tViP P.Vii.
cago and Alton train to Kansas ! had'?eyeral ear of Pence
City, where they will spend a his line of work and no doubt
few days before going to their jwl11 m ajiberpatronage.
home in Jacksonville. j
1 Criminal Court.
; Arthur Seitz, charped with
common assault, plead guilty and
Then Milady should have a "WOOLTEX" suit, one of our
beautiful new Waists which harmonizes in color with the
suit, and "ZIEGLER" or "QUEEN QUALITY" Shoes, and
"KAYSER" Gloves and Hose.
BEGIN TO GET READY
THE CORSET SHOULD BE
A"GOSSAkl)'
COME IN TODAY.
Expression Recital.
On Thursday evening, April was assessed $15 and cost.
6, Miss Esther Knight, who is ; William Worcuff, charged with
graduating from the Expression assault to kill and malice, trial j
Etude, D flat
y-y. rwncs ; ciifirivorl hv ViialThe Erl King
Orchestral accompainment played on
widow, who was formerly Miss a second piano.
tti Aj;nn -Vm The serips of siv rnnrprts hv
ch d n. The7ar as follow, candidates for graduation easily I of fen 'al . Collee set or 17" .
Lee W., of Victor, Colorado; adds a distictive record to well- rendered a most Pleas,n Pro" Iaf ac fff wtJ aS;
John a!, of Dover, Mo.; Tilton, known attainments of former ram- ault to kl11- tnal set for APnl
Jr., of this city and Mrs. W. G. years; and the faculty of the! It was clear to the large au- .
Robertson, Rector, Arkansas. Conservatory may be justly jdience assembled that the read-1 Ben-amm rrankhn charged
The funeral services conducted proud of the Class of 1916. er endeavored throughout the with carrying concealed weap-
; i. ii i.i UUV. nna mac flnoH Slim
S. 0. Hall, were held , evening w give uiuugiii its ihjsh- v-v.
iu v.wvicjuiiu. est moae or expression, sne was j
A good driveway and clump well able to lay aside her own! Le Broken by Falling Slate.
has been provided at the. west individuality and sustain the' John Yates, employed in the
rcamu&
hf 4?
Central 5; W. M. A. 4.
The baseball game Wednesday
Police Court.
Jack West and J. S.
Hix
between Wentworth and Central (negro) who were arrested Wed
College of Fayette resulted in a nesday evening for disturbing
score favorable to the visitors, the peace, were given their
The game was a most interest- choice of a $100 fine, three
ing contest. Central made its months in the city holdover or
ibid for victory in the second in- one hour to leave town. Both de
jning when they scored all their cided to leave the city,
'runs. Wentworth played an up-'
Villi nn v-v r f ) n hi n r r r in 4 U .
Death of Mrs. Chris Taney, end of Gosepond and the people character assumed. Her strong Edward Aull coal mine east of B ' . ' , Mrs. A. M. Penn returned to
Mrs Chris Tanev age 63 of Lexington are requested to personality, self-mastery, con- town, had the misfortune Tues- ourt' tnree in1,,e n , her home in Tawhauska, Okla.,
by Rev.
from the home Tuesday
noon at 2 o'clock.
after-
at direct teamsters to have their trolled voice, and pleasing style day of being caught under some
Taney, age
vears. died Friday, April 7,
Commerce Oklahoma. Her ashes and all inoffensive refuse of delivery won and held the falling slate and suffering a corn
death was due to pneumonia, taken to this place. It will be confidence of her audience. Cen- pound fracture of one of his
The deceased was a former resi- covered wfrom time to time with tral College may well feel proud legs. He was attended by Dr.
dent of this city, having lived liime or clay. to graduate this young woman. McGill.
here many years.
The body was brought to Lex
ington Sunday morning and
taken to the home of her son,
south of town, where the funer
al was held Monday morning at
10 o'clock.
had three men left on bases
when the game ended.
Wednesday after a visit here
with her mother, Mrs. Mary
jRoseen. Her aunt, Mrs. Katie
E. M. Taubman was in Kansas jFranciskato accompanied her
City yesterday on business. jhome for a visit.
Death of Mrs. W. K. Trigg.
A message was received here
Saturday, announcing the death ,
at Berkeley, Cal., Friday night!
of Mrs. Sallie Smith Trigg, wid
ow of Wm. K. Trigg, a former;
and well known resident of this
city.
Mrs. Trigg was a daughter of
the late Dr. Robert Smith. She :
was born in this county and was ;
57 years old. The survivors are ;
two daughters, Mrs. H. M. Van-;
denburgh, at whose home she
died, and Mrs. C. B. Bawry, Jr., !
of Hicks Wharf, Va., and one
son, Lilburn Trigg of Kansas j
City.
J. G. Willard Dies in Indepen
dence, i
J. G Willard, who went to Inde-!
pendence Saturday for a visit i
with his daughter, Mrs. Edgar'
Blair, died sudenly Sunday even-
ing at 9:30 o'clock. His death1
was due to heart trouble.
Mr. Willard was born in Ad
ams County, Illinois, April 10.;
1839 and was 77 years old. The
body was brought to Lexington;
Monday evening and taken to
the home of his nephew, W. II.
Willard, near Lexington. Be
sides his wife he is survived by
one daughter and one son.
The funeral was held Tuesday
afternoon at 2:00 o'clock from
the Christian church at Dover.
C. L. Ristine was in Kansas
City yesterday on business.
If Y&u Are
A
Pa
triotic
Bomboardment of New York by
17 Aeroplanes.
Startling battle between two
fleets of armed cruisers.
American Forts Devastated.
An ALL-star cast.
25,000 Soldiers in Deathly Strug
gle. Nine Thousand others in Wonder
ful scenes.
U. S. Navy in Battle Array.
The most appealing love story
ever thrown on the screen.
SEE
THE
C
PEACE
aenean
Head-on Railroad Train collision.
An American dreadnaught des
troyed and sunk.
Washington Reduced to Ruin.
Submarines and Torpedo boats
at work.
Latest Instruments of War in
Action.
Death Dealing Artillery Duels.
800 Members G. A. R. in thrilling
reproduction of "Spirit of '76."
"A Call to Arms Against War"
A Nine Reel De Lux Photo Play that ran 9 months in New York City at $2 Admission
and has proven a sensation in every American city where shown A picture that enter
tains, surprises, and makes one think and become a better citizen.
P Thill) (QII7irh Trjrr t The Leading Newspapers through the Country
ilPiiS)iiJLP Qy The CHURCH-The STATE-The ARMY and NAVY
E. W. Berry Battery B Band Kf.c
TT7TM
4 W
special Pw2usic o.
Two Day Only
Ion. and Tues.
April 17 Cl 18
II
Reserved Seals 50c
Ml-OMFiiilEILJlMI Children Unreserv-
Write or Phone lor Reservation
ed 25c
Now Selling
Schedule ot Shows. 1:00, 3:30, 7:00 and 9:30 P. M.
