TTtt
Tribune.
BOUNTY
VOL XXXI NO 1
WAUSEON, OHIO, FRIDAY APRIL 14 1916
$1.50 PER YEAR
S
VOLUME THIRTY-THREE
Tho Tribua Begins Tho Thirty
third Year of IU Lifo With This
Issue A Glance Over The fast and
a Look Toward The Future Help
Ua Carry Out Program.
The present issue of the Tribune
marks the beginning of the thirty
third year of continuous publication
since the paper , was established in
1883. This issue is in fact an anni
versary number and we are celebrat
ing the event by putting out a twelve
puife edition this week: We do not
wish to take the credit for this act
to ourselves for it belongs to our
advertisers who have crowded our
pages with substantial and interest
ing news concerning various kinds of
merchandise, which after all is oi
pi ime importance to a large majority
of our readers.
Wo have finished the thirty-second
year of our existence as s County
Newspaper and we are not ashamed
of the record that has been made. The
Tribune has established a place for
itself among the people of the county
as a reliable home paper it has given
the news of the county seat town
and the county government to people
in all parts of the county and it has
been a factor in developing a feeling
of neighborliness among all the citi-
sens of the county. It has gone to
all parts of the United States and in
to foreign countries as a "Letter
from Home" to absent ones, carrying
news of loved ones, neighbors and
friends' to cheer homesick hearts, to
hold fast the home ties and to call
the wanders back from their wander
ing to the "old homo folks."
Through all the years ,this paper I
has stood for the best things in the
progress and development of the com-1
munity and the cause of right has
been championed always in its col-'
umns. The men who have worked in
number of people than ever before
in the history of the paper and we
look forward to years of progress in
efficient service to its community for
The Fulton County Tribune: Editors
and publishers come and go, but we
believe that the Tribune will continue
with the people of Fulton county
through the years to come, rendering
the service which is within the pro
vince of a county newspaper to ren
der and proving itself in the future
as in the past an important factor in
the development and progress of the
civilization of the county.
Our aim will be to increase the ef
ficiency of our service to the public,
to stand for and champion the cause
of right and justice cs it is given us
to see it; to advocate those things
'hat make for the public good and
welfare and to give reliable news to
-ur readers. We ask for tho he1? of
ur friends. in carrying out this pro
gram. When you have an item of news
let the editors know. If there is any
item of information that you would
'ike to hive th ilished write the pa
"er requentin" if; if you have an opin
ion regard to any matter of im
portant write it out and send it in;
in such ways as this you will help to
make The Tribune one of the best
weekly papers in the State.
A TRIBUTE.
In the passing of Rev. Martha M.
Moore, Wauseon Chapter D. A. R.
loses an efficient and worthy mem
ber whose pure minded warm heart
ed kindliness is cherished, and should
be emulated by us all. Her beautiful
thoughts gave her life a higher
course, a nobler plane than many of
us reach. We shall miss her helpful
invocations, her strong friendship and
her restful benedictions. Our most
sincere sympathy is extended to the
few who are left of the family circle.
Mrs. Minnie Waid Darby,
Mrs. Eva B. Struble,
Mrs. Sarah II. Kenyon.
Committee.
BELGIAN FLAG DAY.
It is the wish of the Wauseon Chap-
the past to accomplish these things ter D. A. R. to publicly thank the
were not laggards and the task of Boy Scouts, the Camp Fire Girls and
the editors and publishers of a coun- others who worked so faithfully and
try newspaper is not an easy one: efficiently through the storm last Sat
Sherwood. Knapp. Fluhart. Smith, urday selling the Belgian flags. On
Jameson, Shinaberger, Reighard; account of this splendid work of our
these are the men who have , woven young people and the generous re
the fabric of the Tribune's past rec- sponse of our citizens many Belgians
ord and right well have they labored; will be more comfortable for a time
BOOSTERS EL1JS
Regular Monthly Meeting at T. and I.
Hall Monday Evening Small At
tendance Many Items of Interest
Discussed Communications
ceived Committees Appointed,
Re-
THE FIRST WIN
-
Napoleon's First Campaign for Vjtenna The Defeat of
The Allies at Aust,erlitz Iteras of History That "
Influence The Present European Situation
the present publishers find it a plea
sure to carry on a work so well be
gun. But not to these alone is due
at least.
JJomethii.g over fifty dollars is
the result of this campaign in our
the credit for the splendid record of, town. The g eater part has been
the past; there is a long, long list of sent on to the Relief Commission and
correspondents and contributors who
hsve worked to make the Tribune
what it is and with these muut be
counted the army of subscribers and
advertisers who by their patronage
'have made it possible for this paper
to continue its publication through
the years. We remember with grate
ful appreciation these who have lab
ored in the past and look forward to
the future with new courage and de
termination for the remembrance.
We feel that we have the good will
the help and the support of a larger
some yet remains to be gathered in.
SARAH H.i KENYON, Regent.
FOR COUNTY AUDITOR.
I beg permission to announce that
I shall be a candidate for the nomin
ation to the office of Auditor of Ful
ton county at the Republican primary
August 8, 1916.
EMANUEL RUPP,
German Twp.
Use Hanford's Balsam to heal flesh
wounds.
It was a rather small number of
-lub members that were present at
the regular April meeting of the
Wauseon Boosters Club, last Monday
evening, but the small attendance did
not seem to interfere with the work
to be accomplished at this meeting.
President G. E. Howe was in the
chair and called the club to order, af
ter the reading of the minutes of the
last regular meeting the secretary
presented a communication from the
Secretary of the U. S. Department of
Commerce, and Labor, calling atten
tion to the scarcity of materials for
making paper and asking the club to
co-operate with the Department in
urging upon the public the import
ance of saving the scrap and waste
paper. The Club members express
ed a willingness to respond to this
request, in so far as possible. '
Mr. Deyo 'read a communication
from the Toledo Commerce Club ask
ing him to post and distribute liter
ature in regard to testing seed corn;
the club voted to instruct Mr. Deyo
to have bill borfrd posters furnished
by the Toledo Commerce Club posted
in Wauseon.
Sundry small bills, were presented
and ordered paid.
Resolutions of respect for the late
C. E. Brigham were adopted by the
Club.
Resolutions concerning a Barber
note for $400 representing funds of
the business mens, association de
posited in the Barber banks were al
so adopted appointing Mr. F. H. Wolf
to look after the securing of said
note or a duplicate thereof.
On motion the chair appointed Ed.
Scott, Roll Hoy and Henry Bresler a
committee to co-cperate with the
Civic League and the Woman's Club
in conducting the annual Wauseon
"Clpan Up Day."
Some matters Vere discussed and
referred to the executive committee
(Supt. M. L. Altstetter presented the
matter of prizes for thoee pupils who
stood first in the recent spelling con
test in the public schools of Wauseon
and $4.00 was voted for this purpose.
Allen Hetzel took the first place in
the High School and Nola Woodward
first in the grades. The county spell
ing contest will be held May 10th.
Superintendent Perry called atten
tion of the club to a Rally Day of
the schools of the county to be held
on the Fair Grounds May 13th; the
program will include an address by
Governor Willis, a basket dinner,
games and .contests.
The club adjourned to the next
Tegular meeting on the second Mon
day in May.
By Earle M. Wood
Although Napoleon has driven the.it was time to take Pratzen Hill and
Austrians out of Italy, he had by no win the' battle. He therefor gave his
means conquered them. Austria was orders that the heights were to be
more determined than ever to win stormed, and as the hill was held only
back her lost possessions from France, j by comparatively few Russians, his
so when Napoleon was busy with
some naval plans regarding the in
vasion of England, Austria sought to
form an alliance with Russia and
Prussia against him. Prussia held
back from making any agreement,
for she well knew how powerful the
French army was, but Russia, jealous
troops did not experience very great
difficulty in rushing up the slopes
and driving the Russians down the
other side in confusion. Immediately
after the capture of the hill. Prince
Murat's cavalry fiercely attacked the
center of the Allies' army, cutting the
main body into two parts. One wing
of thet power of France, was ready to ( succeeded in making an escape, but
One trial convinces Hanford's Bal-
plot with Austria for the destruction
oi that country. The Austrian n-vci-peror,
Francis, and the Czar Alex
ander, after working out a campaign
decided to strike Napoleon first on
German soil. Accordingly, a large
Austrian army was sent through the
minor German states and was station
ed at Ulm, where they planned to
meet a Russian army which was to re
enforce them. Napoleon saw that he
must move quickly to prevent this
joining, so he marched his troops in
to Germany and fell upon, the Aus
trians at Ulm. The Austrians were
so surprised that they did not offer
any great resistance, and they sur
rendered the city with thousands of
prisoners to the French Emperor.
Resolved to complete his victory
over Austria before the forces of
Russia could come to her assistance
he pushed on to Vienna. The Emperor
Francis fled to the north with his
army to join the Czar who was hasten
ing southward to aid him. But Na
poleon had marched into Vienna and
had taken up his abode in the im
perial palace, at the same time plan
ning to pursue the Austrians and
give battle outside the walls of the
city.
When Napoleon's troops had march
ed about eighty-five miles to the
northward, thev came unon the Aus
trians and Russians at the village of
Austerlitz. The battlefield was dom
inated hv a hirfi hill called Pratzen
Hill which the Allies eagerly seized
uoon as a commanding position.
The next day the Austrians and
Russians began their operations
against the French by throwing huge
bodies of infantry into action. Na
noleon had been clever enough to
spread his army out so that it was
necessary for the Allies to spread out
also in order to successfully combat
Kim When thev had thinned out in
a long line, they did not realize that
the French had a large body of
troops in reserve to hurl against their
weakened center.
After the infantry fiehtine had
lasted several hours, Napoleon thought
the other was compelled to flee across
a frozen river to safety. The French
guns,1 now mounted on Pratzen Hill
opened fire on the ice, which cracked
beneath the onslaught and carried two
thousand Russians to their death.
The Allies retreated from the field
in great disorder and hastened north
ward to escape further punishment,
but the Emperor Francis remained to
sue for peace. The two Emperors
met at a country windmill, and Fran
cis ceded to Napoleon the rich ter
ritory of the Trentino Venetia, Venice
and Dalmatia. The Austrian uprising
against France had cost her dear, and
had established Napoleon as the most
powerful monarch in Europe,
in order to convince Austria that
he was in a position to dictate terms
to her. he sought an alliance with the
II
C. E. Brigham. One Of Wauseon's
Best Citizens Passes On For a
Third of a Century in Active Busi
ness Life His Departure General
ly Regreted.
Clarence- Elsworth Brigham de
parted this life shortly after noon on
Friday April 7, 1916, aged fifty-five
years,five months and twenty-two
days. His death came just one week
to a day from the time he had been
brought home from Florida, where he
had gone in October in the hope that
he might regain, somewhat his
health. The cause was bright's dis
ease. Mr. Brigham had been in ill health
for several years and an invalid for
more than a year. Accompanied by
his wife and her mother he had gone
in the fall to Windermere, Florida,
where he owned a cottage. But in
stead of regaining any strength as
he and his family and friends had
hoped, he soon became very ill and
tor a part of the time was m the hos
pital at Orlando. Florida. He lone-.
ed, however, to return to his home in
Wauseon and kept up remarkably
wen, consiaenng nis condition, until
ins wisn naa Deen iuimied.
Mr. Brigham was the son of the
late Joel and Betsey Lyon Brigham,
pioneer residents of Wauseon and
Clinton township, and was born in
wauseon October 16, 1860. He was
one of a family of ten brothers and
sisters, only five of whom erew to
maturity, the late Postmaster Walter
S. Brigham, Haven T. Brigham, the
late Mrs. Harriett B. Sohn. Mrs.
t I ,i 1 1 1 PnnnnU . 1.: W , 1
German state of Bavaria. Th .King oToTab7utT year when he
ftt KavQT1 a nan a mama rroa Kla A onn-li I , - r . . ""
ZJS Toi k -v. Sr T ways in Wauseon. He was educated
roy of Italy, but it happened that she in ha Wanseon nnhl,V nhonl
bethrothed to the Duke of Baden. Uo; i. u onA 6
Napoleon annulled the bethrothal at tE dbta school" day'he
once, ana gave tne uue Josephine's came a clerk in his mtfel
's hardware
Z7Z"7 ",7 L" V" store. in which he later obtained
wvx u6cuc. financial interest and
iu uiw er si,roK.e, ne oouna r ranee COmDlete ownership
finally
With the
a
the
to Bavaria and Baden at once, so ception of three yars M Bri ham
fiA"trSaJT. lhat her d0mln- identified with this business all
i, a T u j of nis active life and was thus
tut' .' i "v.- u T ucc" a , Vau Wauseon business man for more than
a third of a century. In 1905 Mr.
P R E S TIGE ' j
II 1 1 When a check is received bearing
J the name, "First National Bank", it j I
llll carries with it prestige and the re- j I
III cipient knows the maker of the check ' !!!
llll has sound banking connections. j
llll In offering the services of this bank, 1
IU we are placing at your disposal bank- I I
I II ing relations that must reflect to your
IU advantage in' all your business
I N dealings, which is prestige. yi j
First National: Bank
The BANK-BY-MAIL Bant" ,
HI Wauseon, - - - - Ohio j
Company acted as pall bearers and
laid the mortal part of one of the
towns best citizens to rest in Wau
seon cemetery. Business houses of
the town closed their doors during
the hour of the funeraL
WARNING TO SPEEDERS.
Citizens of Wauseon. who willfully,
thoughtlesly or carelessly have per
sisted in violating the Tragic Ordin
ance in regard to speeding autos on
the streets, also running with mufflers
open, have reached the limit of pa
tience of the marshal Mr. Robert
Sweeny. Mr. Sweeny considers their
persistent violation of the speed limit
law an imposition on good nature and
is prepared to take stringent action
m the matter. Mr. Sweeny has "tim
ed" a number of these violators, and
-has announced his intention of prose
cuting any further violation of the
speed limit law regardless of who
PETIT JURY
Here
for
Quality
Values
at
Popular
Prices
t All
. r -i
Ready
Easter!
Awmh
Use
McCall's
Dress
Patterns
so that
you too,
may know
their
advantages.
All Your ' Easter ?'s Delightfully and Pleasingly
Answered, whether it be
Coats
S u i t s
5 k i r t s
M i 1 1 in e r y
or
Dress Goods
EASTER, the SEASON of NEWNESS, CHANGEABLENESS, when all
of NATURE'S CREATIONS, DRESS UP, put on NEW ATTIRE an d
PROCEED forth in HARMONY, with so SACRED and MEMORIAL
EVENT.
yyfiJ2,6'S QUALITY BEFORE PRICE
$rs&& The Spencer-Edgar-Vollmer Go.
V Wauseon's Exclusive Dry Goods Store
i
through which she could march her.
armies against raris, Dut now she Rio-v u,j. k..;
saw that not only the Italian passes which then became ' merged in the
;r ;";"V : 6""v' "- department store newly organized in
red against her. Austria had been wa,iS W T. Mii0, nf ti
14-1 1J J 1 1 1 . . t., wj. J. V1WW.
,.yieiy crusnea, ana sne snranK For about a year Mr- Brigham was
from the new alliance which Russia manager of an independent telephone
and p-ussia were forming against piant at Mayfield, Kentucky, later re
turning to wauseon wnere, ior two
MISS CHLOE EDGAR. V3' "eJounfl emP10Ve,F . ln tlle
Mic ri,iro i.'ho- w canK oi wauseon. in 1W8. nowever.
member of t.h snnhnmn f "e became manager of the business thev are: he will secure heln if
Miami University, will appear in the wlln, wmcn ne naa Deen identified ed to carry but this decision. Anyone
i . . - -1, I noCr W oil hid li-fri mnrl a torn w nn4-Un 1 i 1
leading soprano role of i?'iotow's well ""-""J " m Wno aesires may secure a copy of the
known opera, "Martha", when the H o W3 Semr .menbeJ l' the ?!"m Traffic Ordinance rom Mr. Sweeny,
production will be staged by the of J?rlghanlv. GuUf?rd & Co., which The section in regard to speed is very
members of the musical ore-aniza- Purchased , the business of the de- liberal. The speed limit on Fulton
tions of the institution on April fif- . ,.rVre- a never ac" street between Oak street and Chest-
tu t-; j.,4..u tive in politics, Mr. Brisrham served nnt. street, is ten miieo i,nn n
wwwAMA. 111c Clituc MlUUUCblUli Will C " 1 P , w " i v vu au.
be given by Miami students, under the f 2 number years as treasurer other streets of the city the limit is
;.-; if a'... Mr of Wauseon, and for many years serv- fifteen miles n no,,- tv,0 v,
uubiwvu wi iiiicaavi auurev vv . I j . 5 , . " - "UJl- tviiv
Martin, head of the department of , "i xt o7o S , Y ".UB" persist m driving faster will hereaf-
ihc in the institution. This is the le V- 349'T- &'A- : m ter "show" Police Judge Deyo the
first that any collegiate institution in i89 helwf- also w?;shlPfal master. reas0n why and pay him for the pri-
the state has attempted the staging of esides ho,ldmS membership m the Vilege and such costs are higher much
a grand opera, excepting of course, "","" " "s".?nan gasoline or the high cost of
those devoted exclusively to musical 3, A "Zr """Y a nvmg-
interests. The nhunHanne f eeii. andery N: ? Knights Templar and.
ont imool talent onn tho. Dt,,J. ul.":"uua oimnc, luicuu. 1 H1.IUUK1 AM
has led Professor Martin to attemnt Mr- Bngham was married to Miss' With sincere regret the Wauseon
ea lorward to hv the mnsirn natrons . . . . . r;.. T." " iuin. m mio. aiujt xiauuiei
in southern Ohio day. beIore .nls twenty-tilth birthday, Geyser. Before her removal from
The fact that Miss Edtrar has been K1 " lvS. I; - 7"v 5wanlon sne was a memDer of our
hoen for the l.in,, .o i J ? laiiniuuy cureu ior nun aur- unapter.
speaS unhfraV-a .enT ..3X22. JPTZJ &J&2?
smeer. Since her matneu at.ion atr'"'r ' " " vi -ucui. : naa a uue mm laiia-
the University lnt. irear she ha hee now Ses. ful wife, a wise and loving mother.
very prominent in the musical or- L Few mn m Wauseon have so held She watched with keen enjoyment
ganizations of the school, having been ""0 "" "" "' f c utywupmeui uu aavancemem oi
a member of the three organizations immunity as did Mr.. Brigham dur- her children and her plans for them
of this kind open to women- the ln& nls lifetime. A man of the ut- were more nearly realized than those
- i . . n, . . . ' .1 mnar- lnTOfrntir no qiqa nnaoDoaort io- rT mnc-r m r h ava
maarigai uiub, the Anon Choir, and , V, 6 . 'I T
Petit Jury For April Term of Com
mon Pleas Court on Duty for Two
Days Two Cases Disposed of 1
Dismissed for Time Being Judges
Exchange.
the Chapel Choir. She has a wide
markable -tact and judgment, and We wish as a Chanter, to extend
circle of friends in the University mannestea tne smallest gooa win our deepest sympathy to her son Wil-
,ho o nt;,.;o;o. i toward every one. it was a pleasure nam Ueyser, and to her
who are anticipating her appearance
daughter,
in the opera with much pleasure. She f?r hi ? a"modate peoplej. and Mrs. Dotothy Geyser Longnecker,
is a popular member
Sigma Alpha sorority.
of the Alpha
expression of personal Joss made not
only by older people, but -as well by
WEEKLY WEATHER FORECAST, young people and children. ' (lie was
Unseasonably cool weather will likewise very fond of music). A
' prevail the first half of the week over Christian in character and belief,
the great central valleys and the dis- tnough never puDliciy proiessed, the
tricts east thereof, with probably influence and example of Mr. Brig
frosts throughout the interior of the ham's life will always be a help to
UUll and South Atlantic States, ex- mose wno Knew mm ana lovea mm
since his death many have been the who is a loved member of the Wau
seon Chapter D. A. R. .
Mrs. Minnie Waid Darby,
Mrs. Eva B. Struble,
Mrs. Sarah H. Kenyon.
The petit jury for the April term
of Court . were . assembled Monday
morning and a jury was impanelled
to hear the case of Arthur Sham
barger vs Charles Shambarger. This
case is some what peculiar and
seems to have grown out of a family
misunderstanding in regard to a
horse, more or less venerable which
according to the plaintiff had been
given him hy his fa.tb.er Charles Sham
barger the defendant in the suit. The
defendant claimed that he had only
given the plaintiff the privilege of
using the horse. Last fall the horse
was chloroformed under the direction
of defendant who engaged Frankie
Knapp Jr., to superintend the process
and who took the hide from the car
cass which he buried. The plaintiff
sought to recover the nrice of the
horse. Witnesses for both sides were
heard Monday and an evening ses
sion of court was made necessary, the
case was given to the jury at about
eight o'clock p. m. and they returned
a verdict awarding plaintiff $5.00 at
9:30 p. m.
Tuesday morning jury and wit
nesses were present to try the case
of Sherman Free . vs Mrs. Barbara
Herrmann, a suit to recover damages
for personal injuries received by
plaintiff while working on defendants
farm in the sum of $5030..
The case was settled before the
case was called in court by the pay
ment of $100.00 to the plamtiff and
the court granted defendant a stay in
execution for costs for four months.
' Judge Snook of Paulding occupied
the bench Tuesday, Judge Wolf filling
the Paulding bench. The jury were
dismissed for the time being but will
be called again later as there are a
number of cases on the docket for
trial.
Committee.
Corset .
They contain no pepsin or other di
gestive ferments but strengthen the
stomach and enable it to perform its
functions naturally. For sale by all
dealers.
Should Not Feel Discouraged.
So many people troubled with indi
cestion anH nonstirvation have heen
cept the Florida Peninsula, and freez- Funeral services were held at the benefited by taking Chamberlain's Tab-
lnsr temperatures tKrouhout the Mis- home on Monday forenoon, April 10, , lets that no one should feel discourag-
issippi and Ohio Valleys the Lake conducted by Rev. B. G. Bowman. The . ed who has not given them a trial
region, the Middle Atlantic and New home was nlled wlth business asso
England States. The latter half of ciates, friends and neighbors attest-
the week in these regions will be much m? t0 tne nign regard m wnicn mr.
warmer. l omnarat. v war oriffnam was neia in ms nome town.
weather will prevail throughout the Employees of The Bngham, Guilford
weeK west ot the Rocky Mountains.
and considerably warmer weather will
set in over the Plains States and the
Rocky Mountain region Monday and
Tuesday and moderate temperatures
will continue thereafter until the
close of the week.
The storm that now covers the Ohio
Valley and the Middle Atlantic
States will advance northeastward
and be attended by snows Sunday in
the Ohio Valley and lower Lake re
gion, and snow or rain in the North
Atlantic States. With this exceotion
generally fair weather will prevail I
X 1 I . A
mrougnout tne coming week.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
Whereas: Clarence E. Bricham.
for many years a leading business
man oi wauseon and closely identi
fied during all the years of his busi
ness activity with the development
ana progress of this town has been
removed by death.
itesolved: That in the decease of
Mr. Brieham the town has lost one
of its best citizens; a gentleman in
every respect, his record for honesty
and business integrity stands with
out blemish. His influence among
nis Dusiness associates has been al
ways beneficial. His auiet die-nitv
and his sound iudgment have been a
potent factor in establishing high
business standards in this town. We
sincerely regret his decease and ex
tend our sympathy to his family.
Resolved: That these resolutions
be transcribed upon the minutes of
this club and published in the town
papers.
THE WAUSEON BOOSTERS CLUB.
G. E. HOWE. President.
L. H. DEYO. Sec'v.
wauseon, Ohip, April lUth, llb.
CLYDE C. GRIM.
Clyde C. the little son of Mr. and
Mrs. Elmer E. Grim passed away on
Tuesday morning after a serious
sickness which had afflicted him for
some weeks. Funeral services were
held at the home on Oak street,
Thursday at 10:00 o'clock and burial
made m Wauseon cemetery. Rev. J.
A. Wharton officiated. The little fel
low was three months and four days
old. Mr. and Mrs. Grim have the
sympathy of all xho know them in
FARM HAND WANTED
TO HANDLE DAIRY
I want to hire a man who .can '
handle a bunch of Holstein cows and
take charge of stock on farm, includ
ing Registered Percheron Stallion and
Mares. We have fine stock farm.
Cement barn with stanchions for the
cows. Milking machine. Will 'accept
either single man or man of family,
providing suitable references can be
given. Address me at Butler, In
diana, stating price per calendar
month and per year. Chas. Reign .
Scoville. 1-1-c
The Fashion
Plate
Fop
96
REO DEALERS have found that it costs them less than one dollar per car,
per year to give their customers service.
REO AUTOMOBILES have service built in at the factory. It doesn't cost
the owner much to keep them in running order. . '
"50 PER CENT OVERSIZE" in all vital parts the REO factor of safety is
one of the reasons for the wonderful stability and low maintenance cost
of REOS. The others are REO quality in every ounce of material and
REO accuracy in the making of every part.
REO GOOD INTENT all there is of REO integrity goes with every REO.
INVESTIGATE THEM AT THE AUTO SHOW.
iahle & Doyle, sfamora, Ohio
their day of trouble.
