Oflfl T\TT7T <[ <1
rlss - I; J&/A T AflrfL LlL\s3t
ELEVENTH YEAR. No.
SECOND KIKE AT RIVERSIDE.
Thu people at this place had not en
tirely recovered from the sensation
<aused by the disastrous fire that de
stroyed a dozen buildings at River
side on Saturday afternoon, April I,
until they were again shocked last
Friday morning by the news that Riv
erside had again been visited by fire,
early that morning, resulting in still
greater loss in dollars and cents than
the loss met with six days before.
The second fire broke out about four
o’clock Friday morning in t lie rear of
a vacant frame building, fronting on
Main street, owned by P. I). Keareny,
and from that point spread north and
south, destroying six structures. As
there were no means at hand for fight
ing tire, and the buildings were of the
most inflammable material, the flames
spread with fearful rapidity. Nothing
could be done to stay the blaze until
all tlie material to feed on within reach
had been consumed. Fortunately no
wind was blowing, or nothing would
have remained of the town. Only the
utmost exertions of the citizens, who
worked with desperation, prevented
tlie lire from jumping across the street
and destroying the immense ware
houses of ('lias. E. Blackwell & Co.,
and other buildings in the neighbor
hood. The buildings destroyed were
owned by (’has. K. Blackwell & Co.. P.
1). Kearney, Wm. Dahiing, Hugh Gib
bons, Okanogan State Bank and W. C.
Wilson,
Tilt heaviest loss was that of Chas.
B. Blackwell * Co. The company own
el ami occupied one of the largest de
uartment stores in the county, carry
ing an Immense stock of merchandise.
The int« rlor of the store was modern
in equipment, covering a very large
floor space, with a select assortment
of goods, and elegant and substantial
fixtures and furnishings. So rapid was
the spread of flames that only the of
fice records, typewriters, adding ma
chine and cash registers could be
saved.
The losses as reported are as fol
lows:
Chas, E. Blackwell & Co., on stock
and building, between $35,000 and $40,-
000, with some $25,000 insuruce.
Wm. Dahling’s harness shop $4,000,
insurance $1,200.
Okanogan State bank $4,000, insur
ance $2,500.
Hugh Gibbons, $2,500, partly insur
ed.
Nell Thompson. S3OO, no insurance.
A. E. McKee SOOO, no insurance*
Gordon & Edwards $750, partly in
sured.
P. D. Kearney $750, partly Insured.
W. C. Wilson $750, no Insurance.
This is a very serious blow to Riv
t rside, for while some of the victims
will rebuild many will not. That inde
fatigable hustler. Charlie Blackwell,
though hard hit, was neither dismayed
nor discouraged. Before the debris of
his store had ceased burining he had
opened for business in the warehouse
across the street and had ordered fresh
stock by wire. The company will put
up a concrete block. The Okanogan
State bank opened out in the office of
J. M. Adams and will at once erect a
concrete building.
PROMOTED.
R. F. Hoffmark, who has been man
ager for A. Guthrie & Co., during the
construction of the West Okanogan
Valley Irrigation project, has been
promoted, and will have general super
vision of all of Guthrie & McDougall’s
contracts west of the Rocky moun
tains, with headquarters at Portland,
a most responsible position. This mark
of confidence on the part of one of the
largest and most wealthy contracting
firms in the United States falls upon a
worthy young gentleman and is evi
dence of his ability in that special
field of endeavor. Mr. Hoffmark has
made friends of all with whom he has
come in contact during the time that
he has been on the local job, and these
acquaintances extend to him congratu
lations upon his elevation to a still
more important and responsible po
sition, where he will certainly make
good. Mr. Hoffmark left for Portland
Monday morning, but expects to be
back in Oroville from time to time un
til the system is completed and accept
ed by the district. C. D. Chamberlain
succeeds Mr. Hoffmark as general
manager on the local contract, and Is
the right man in the right place.
iMtM k Kvmn viNHKvr.
The entertainment to be given by the
ladies of the Civic League, in the li
brary building tomorrow afternoon, is
arranged especially to provide diver
sion for those ladies in the community
who do not dance. This promises to be
a very pleasant social affair for all
who participate, for pleasure is synon
ymous with any entertainment of
whatever kind the ladies of the Civic
League stand sponsors for. There will
be an admittance charge of 25 cents.
DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION.
The Okanogan county democratic
convention met in the hall of the Oka
nogan fire department at 10 o’clock
a. in.
R. W. Starr of Peteros called the
meeting to order and was then elected
temporary chairman while F. W. Ples
slnger of Carlton was elected tempor
ary secretary. Upon the completion of
the temporary organization, the chair
appointed the following committees:
Committee on credentials—,J. W.
Faulkner, P. K. Mitchell and A. J.
O’Conner.
Committee on organization and or
der of business—C. M. Davidson, It, F.
Hendricks and W. V. Looney.
Committee on resolutions—W. K.
Grant. C. H. Neal, C. W. Dibble and A.
J. Hughes, Alter making .arrange
ments for a more complete represen
tation of the county, the meeting was
adjourned to meet again at the same
place at 2 o'clock.
The meeting was called to order
promptly at 2 o’clock with a full house.
The committee on credentials submit
ted its report which was adopted. Mr.
A. .1. O'Connor of Brewster was chosen
chairman and Mr. H. L. Mooney of
Chesaw as secretary. Chairman O’Con
ner assumed his new duties as chair
man at once while owing to the ab
sence of the newly elected secretary,
F. W. Plessinger was continued in that
capacity. The committee on organiza
tion and order of business then made
Its report which report was adopted,
This was followed by the report of the
committee on resolutions who express
ed themselves in substance as follows:
"An expression of appreciation and
satisfaction with the national adminis
tration for its active and voluminous
efforts on behalf of the American peo
ple and more particularly for the wise
and efficient foreign policy of our pa
triotic and able president, Woodrow
Wilson. Also for the untiring and uni
formly successful efforts of Represen
tative C. C. Dill on behalf of the people
of the Fifth congreslonal district of
Washington. Mr. Dill has earned the
undying gratitude of the people he has
been serving and we can best show our
appreciation by returning him to con
gress with an Increased majority at
the November election. Our wise and
fearless governor, Ernest Lister, chief
executive of Washington, was espec
ially commended for his liberal and
broad minded stand on questions
effecting this commonwealth, as was
also the effort of our local represen
tative the Hon. A. .1. Nickle.” The re
port of the committee was adopted
amidst much enthusiasm.
The order of business calling for the
election of delegates to the state con
vention to be held at Yakima on May 2,
1916, the convention proceeded to the
selection of eighteen delegates and
eighteen alternates.
Other routine business was taken up
and promptly disposed of whereupon
the convention adjourned to meet at
the call of the chairman.
A. J. O’CONNER, Chairman.
F. W. PLESSINGER. Sec’y.
TOUR OF INSPECTION.
Senator Geo. L. Cotter!!!, chief en
gineer of the state highway commis
sion, was a visitor in Oroville last
Thursday afternoon, while on a tour
of inspection over state road No. 10.
Mr. Cotterill attended the good roads
meeting at Okanogan, and while in the
county decided to see for himself the
condition of road No. 10 and its neces
sity as a route of travel. He went over
t.ie road to the international boundary.
After this inspection Mr. Cotter!!! has
no hesitancy in stating that he con
sidered the road a great necessity, it
leally being a trunk line connecting
the state with British Columbia, and
expressed it as his opinion that the
road should be completed at as early
a date as possible. It is fortunate that
Mr. Cotterill holding the position that
he does, has been able to personally
inspect this route, as he will be per
fectly willing to aid in securing ap
propriations for the road, and see that
the money is properly applied when
the appropriation is secured.
WELL DESERVED COMPLIMENT.
At the meeting of the Okanogan
Stock Growers’ association, held at
Okanogan last week, the following
well deserved compliment was paid to
Fred W. Graham, western immigra
tion agent of the Great Northern rail
road in the nature of an unanimously
adopted resolution:
"Be it further resolved. That the
people of Okanogan county are deeply
indebted to Fred W. Graham of the
Great Northern Railway for his long
continued and highly successful efforts
to further the development and inter
ests of Okanogan county for the deep
personal interest and effective help
which he has always given in every
phase of the upbuilding of our county,
and that special thanks of this asso
ciation be extended to Mr. Graham.”
OROVILLE, WASHiN ITON. APRIL 14, 1916
The above picture is a view of the pretty little town of Riverside, recently devastated
by fire. The photograph was taken several years ago, but gives a general idea of the place.
The section destroyed was were the group of buildings show just above the church.
A SUMOI'S BLOCKADE.
One of the worst blockades that has
yet occurred on the Oroville-We
natchee branch was the one that cut
off through travel last week, and Is
still tying up the line when this paper
goes to press, although a clear track
is expected in a few days. Trains have
run between Oroville and the north end
of the slide with delightful irregular
ity, and a like service has existed be
tween Wenatchee and the south end
of the blockade, passengers and a
small amount of express being trans
ferred. This tie up was caused by an
enormous rock and mud si„ie at the
south portal of an S0»-foot tunnel sit
uated some three miles below Chelan
station. At that point, where on enor
mous tonnage of dirt and rock covers
the track for a distance of 250 feet and
to a great depth, the mountain range
rises very abruptly from the river
edge. The spring thaw loosened a
mass of debris on the upper reaches
of the hill, and the slide stripped the
hill top to bed rock. No damage was
done to the tunnel and it is open at the
north portal, but blocked at the south
end. Large forces of men have been
and are at work at both ends of the
slide, but muscular efforts of a shovel
brigade made slow progress removing
the immense quantity of rock.
Other means to expedite the work of
track clearing had to be secured. A
train was run up to Princeton from
this place Sunday evening where dump
cars, donkey engines and other para
phernalia belonging to A. Gutherie &
Co., were secured. Returning to Oro
ville the steam shovel that had been
used on the irrigation ditch was loaded
and a gang of men taken from the
Guthrie & Co., camps. This outfit was
taken to the scene of trouble via Mar
cus, Spokane and Wenatchee. With
this additional assistance the track
will be more speedily cleared, ’al
though it will be some days before a
regular service is restored.
— —
BOO'D OVKK FOB ASSAULT.
Hast Friday Geo. Rhinehart and .1. A.
Spoonamore locked horns in an alter
cation on Mrs. Bassett’s ranch, on
Nine-mile creek, and Mr. Spoonamore
came out of the brief conflict with a
deep cut two inches long on his right
cheek. The injured man came to Oro
ville and Dr. Efner patched up the
wound. A warrant was sworn out
charging Rhinehart with assault with
a deadly weapon. Deputy Sheriff Ed.
Burden arrested Rhinehart at Stanton's
saw mill, Sunday. When the officer ap
proached and ordered Rhinehart to
surrender that individual instead of
giving up leaped upon his horse,
which was standing near, and started
to escape. Burden shot the horse. The
animal, in the throes of pain bucked
his rider off, and before Rhinehart
could recover his feet the officer nab
bed him.
A preliminary examination was held
in the town hall Monday afternoon be
fore Judge Parsons, with a large num
ber of interested spectators in attend
ance. Attorney Chas. F. Sigrist repre
sented the county, and Attorney E. A.
Williams appeared for the defendant.
The witnesses could not testify that
they saw any weapon in the hands of
Rhlnehart, and on the stand the pris
oner denied that he had a pocket knife
on his person at the time of the trou
ble, claiming that he had inflicted the
injury by a blow of the fist. However,
the committing magistrate would not
go, behind the outword and visible evi
dence of the ugly gash, and bound
Rhinehart over to the superior court
In the sum of SIOOO. Not being able to
furnish bonds Rhinehart was commit
ted to the county Jail to await his trial.
COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
Minutes of the meeting of the town
council of Oroville, held April 10, 1916.
Present, Mayor Samson, Councilmen
Rvale, Frils and Smith.
Minutes of the previous meeting read
and approved as read. The matter of
the town paying for a portion of the
expense of building and upkeep of the
bridges adjacent to the town was dis
cussed. Mayor Samson informed the
council that he would write the com
missioners in regard to this matter at
once.
The town treasurer then requested
that the council take up the matter of
water rates on certain properties and
after a discussion rates were determin
ed on certain properties that were in
question, the council agreeing that the
water ordinance would be amended
soon and some of the rates that now
seem to be wrong will be changed in
this amendment.
Certain citizens appeared before the
council asking that some action be
taken to provide a license fee for ped
dlers operating in the town and the
ordinance committee were instructed
to look into the matter at once.
On motion council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSE, Clerk
-
CAKE SALE.
The ladies of the Deborah society of
the Presbyterian church announce a
cake sale to be held in the Getsey Con
fectionery parlor Saturday afternoon,
April 22, when a delicious assortment
of toothsome products of the cooking
art will be offered for sale. The mem
bers of the society are expert manipu
lators of those ingredients that enter
into cake making, and the specimens
that will be offered for sale will be
the very best of the kind that can be
turned out.
A SEKIOI'S MISTAKE.
11l the notice of Isaac Nordlund's
public sale of personal property as
printed on the bills and as it appeared
In this paper of last week, an unusual
and inexplicable error occurred in the
date given for the sale. The date of the
month, April 18, is correct, but the day
of the week is Thursday, when it
should have been TUESDAY. In the
immediate neighborhood, and where
the day could be changed on some of
the bills, the error can to some extent
be remedied. The inexcusable mistake
will no doubt have the effect of re
ducing the crowd that might otherwise
have attended the sale. This paper
reaches very many of those who will
see the bills, and the fact is emphasiz
ed that the sale takes place on TUES
DAY, APRIL 18.
DELEGATES SELECTED.
The county democratic convention,
for the purpose of selecting delegates
to attend the democratic state conven
tion, that is to be held at North Yakima
May 2, convened at Okanogan last
Thursday. C. H. Neal, L. E. Hendrix
and it. P. Hoskyn were present from
Oroville. There was a good attendance
at the convention, and resolutions en
dorsing Wilson, Lister and Dill were
adopted. The following is a list of the
delegates selected to attend the state
convention:
A. .1. Nickle, C. H. Neal, E. R. Davis,
W. V. Looney, P, H. Pinkston, James
Ferguson, A. .1, O'Connor, Clay Fruit,
H. L. Mooney, .1. W. Faulkner, R. W.
Starr, R. Burke, W. E. Grant, J. O.
Burdett, Clarence Philips, McD. Hersh
berger, E. F. Banker, B. L. Smith.
Alternates —R. T. Prewitt, W. R.
Moore, W. H. Collins, Ed. Barker, L.
E. Hendrix, J. G. Smith, C. M. David
son; Mesdames A. J. Nickle, Clay
Fruit, E. R. Davis, W. E. Grant, E. F.
Banker, P. H. Pinkston, Rick Burke,
C. H. Neal, J. O. Burdett, A. .1. O’Con
nor and Mias Georgina Donald.
t BENEFIT DANCE.
The members of the High School
athletic ssociation are arranging to
give a dance in the Orpheum Friday
evening, April 28, the proceeds of
which will be applied toward lifting
some of the debt the boys contracted
during the season of sports. Every
year the receipts of the various ath
letic contests fall short of the expenses
and measures have to be taken to
meet the debt contracted. The citizens
have not been solieied to donate, and
the lads considered a public dance as
the most democrtlc way of obtaining
funds, as through the medium of the
dance something can be given for the
investment made, and that experience
has demonstrated that a dance is
the most popular entertainment that
can be provided. Those who do not
dance, yet feel sufficiently loyal to the
school to help the association upon its
feet financially, can contribute the
small sum of a dollar in the purchase
of a ticket to this dance. The associa
tion is worthy of encouragement and
support, as it is a very Important
feature of the public school.
•
FAIR COMMITTEES MEETING.
C. W. Smith, chairman of the Oro
ville Fair association, desires this pa
per to give nolice that the members of
all of the fair committees are request
ed to meet in the library building Sat
urday evening. April 22, to hear re
ports and to make such further ar
rangements for carrying out of the
fair as may be considered necessary.
Let there be a full attendance.
E. N. Grubb has made quite a mark
ed change in the dining room of the
Hotel de Grubb by installing a short
order counter. This new order of
things was decided upon because many
travelers prefer short orders, espec
ially for breakfast, which is a light
meal for the majority of people, and
Mr, Grubb is always alive to meeting
the wants of patrons. The installation
of the counter may detract somewhat
from the general appearance of the
handsomest dining room in the state
outside of the very largo cities, but
beauty must give way to utility and
business demands. Under the new or
der of tilings at the Hotel de Grubb,
the guests of the house, and there are
a host of them, that enjoy the com
forts of this elegant hostlery, can or
der a la carte, and have their inner
wants supplied, whether their wants
may be small or groat, with the best
that the market provides.
DELIGHTFUL SOCIAL EVENT,
Last Thursday evening Mr. and Mrs.
J. P. Samson gave a party in the li
brary building in honor of iter daugh
ter, Mrs. Harry A. Reed, who is soon to
join her husband at Corvallis. Oregon,
whore he is now located. It was the
largest attended private social affair
ever held in Oroville, as also one of the
most enjoyable. Those present devoted
the early hours of the evening to
cards, which were followed by dancing.
A delicious collation was served at
midnight. The following is a list of the
invited guests: Mr. and Mrs. Ed.
Klingman, Mr. and Mrs. S. B. Starrett.
Mr. .iikl Mis. S. H. Sanderson, Mr. and
Mrs, 0. 1,. Armstrong, Mr. and Mrs. A.
I’. Murray, Mr. and Mrs. R. S. Ta>lo'-,
Mr. and Mrs. Chas. T. Petrson, Mr.
and Mrs. r. V. Covert. Mr. and Mrs. L.
I). Oliver, Mr. and Mrs. R. A. Jackson,
Mr. and Mis. Chus. Powell, jr., Mr. and
Mrs. J. A. Blackler, Mr. and Mrs.
Willis, Dr. and Mrs. E. E. Efner, Dr.
and Mrs. D. H. Lewis, Dr. and Mrs. W.
C, Ketchum, Mr. and Mrs. Geo. H. Ellis,
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Hedger, Mr. and
Mrs. \V. J. Hoskyn, Mr. and Mrs. R. L.
Prentice. Mr. and Mrs. Lew Prentice,
Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Pourtales, Mrs.
Gladys Evans, Mrs. Mildred Evans,
Misses Edwynne Tilley, Ellen Hamisch,
Eliza Grathwohl, Messrs. Fred Hart,
Louis Brumer and B. Bache.
AN IMPORTANT TRANSFER.
It is generally known that last Sat
urday all the arrangements were com
pleted for the sale of the Sirailkameen
Power plant to Eugene Enloe, of the
firm of Enloe & Divyer, Spokane. Ne
gotiations for the transfer had been
carried on for two weeks before a final
understanding was reached, and while
the deal is practically closed, further
particulars are withheld at the request
of those interested until the final
transfer takes place, which Is expected
in a few days. Messrs. Divyer & Enloe
are behind the Okanogan Valley Power
company, that operates a power plant
on the Methow river, supplying power
and lights to Pateros, Brewster
Bridgeport, Okanogan and Riverside.
CARD OF THANKS.
The undersigned desire to take this
means of expressing their thanks and
appreciation for the kind aid and
sympathy extended at the time of their
late affliction in the death of their
neice, Mary Jones.
MR. & MRS. GEO. STOLTZ.
M. E. CHURCH SERVICES.
Sunday school at 10 a. m. Preaching
service at 11 a. in. Subject of sermon,
"Peter's denial.” Epworth League at
7 p. m. Preaching service at 8 p. m.
Subject of sermon, "Not seeking to
Honor Ourselves, but Seeking to Hon
or God.”
Everybody welcome; Everybody in
vited; Everybody come. The homelike
church and the stranger’s friend.
W. W. STRITE, Pastor.
TRINITY EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
(Rev. G. H. Severance-Vicar.)
Next Sunday being Palm Sunday,
special services will be held at 11 a. m.
There will be special music.
Sunday school at. 12.
Bishop Page expects to visit Oroville
early in May and any who desire to
consider the matter of confirmation
are requested to notify the Vicar at
once.
J. A. Criswell, who has been engag
ed by the directors of the West Oka
nogan Valley Irrigation district to
take charge of the system after its
completion, has arrived in Oroville
with his family, and will occupy Mrs.
Williams’ residence in the east part of
town.
A wild flower luncheon, at which
Miss Clara Dunn presided, was given
by the domestic science class of the
high school this week. Blue bells, yel
low bells and May flowers were lavish
ly used as decorations and for gar
nishing the several courses of the
meal. The menu was composed of
simple, old fashioned dishes, the cost
of which was slightly over 15 cens per
plate. The guests were Mr. and Mrs.
H. J. Desmond, Mr. and Mrs. 8. B.
Starrett and Mr. and Mrs. E. 8. Taylor.
.fas. Breen, whose name is a house
hold word in mining circles along the
boundary, spent several days in Oro
ville this week looking over the pros
pects in this vicinity in company with
■I. C. Fisher. Mr. Breen was a force in
the early development of the Rossland
mines, and was instrumental in the
building of the smelter at Trail. He
is a man who has knowledge of mines
and mining from personal experience
extending over many years, and it is a
matter of congratulation that he has
been induced to come into northern
Okanogan county and personally in
spect the various mining properties
and become familiar with existing con
ditions relative to mining.
$1.60 PER TEAR
