r
V
VOLUME XIV.
SELMER. McNAIRY COUNTY. TENN., FRIDAY APRIL 14. i0!6.
NUMBER 40
J NEW YORK 5
LETTER
Let us Rive the balance of the coun
try a rest for awhile and turn our eyes
toward Florida. While I am writing
this, the streets of New York are cov
ered with enow, and a keen wind ia
whistling around the huge buildings;
but within thirty-six hours' travel by
rail, the violets and roses are blooming
in the door-yards, the Poinsettias and
Bougainvillias are flauntiug their flesh
colored and crimson banners in the
soft breezes, while the golden and
dark green colors of the orange and
loqua trees are reflected in crystal
waters, and the mocking bird is sing
ing in the camphor trees all day long,
while the palms rustle their broad
fronds in the south wind, in Orlando.
It is a land of poetry and dreaming
when you have the money to afford
it; and a land of mighty hard work
and frequent disappointment if you
have no capita!. I have bbbq Florida
at its best and its worst, and still love
the state. I forget the mosquitoes,
stinging ants, chills, fevers, the lean
beef and the Hayti yams that served
for bread in hard times, but the glory
and the glamor of the groves, gardens
and lakes of that land of perennial
spring still live in my memory, and I
am mighty sorry I cannot be there
this minute.' ' .
Thirty-seven years ago we landed
iu Orange county, in south central
Florida, and spent a year on Lake
Beau Clair, one of a chain, of crystal
lakes lying like a chaplet of pearls
under the semi-tropic skies, their
watera so clear that in riding out in
a boat one grew dizzy because it look
ed like the boat were swimming in the
air; and you only had to throw out a
line with a spinner attached ,and draw
it in, to haul in more black bass than
the family could : possibly eat. , My
mother, with the eye of a true artist,
saw the beauties of this lake, and had
the power to describe it as no one else
ever did, or could do, and her poem
on Lake Beau Clair, with its fidelity
to nature and its true Florida touch,
was her master-piece. ' No wonder it
was published in hundreds of news
papers, and made both her and the
lake famous throughout the state,
I quote this, beautiful poem from
memory and as its mellifluous meas
ures come to me, I see again that sun
lit shore, the waving palms, and the
moss-hung pines reflected in 'the pla
cid waters: and my mother there
watching the sunset glow.
The tints of opal and pearl have fled,
And the Lake is blushing rosy red,
While the pure, translucent waters shine
Like a crystal vase of ruby wine. .
. TKi-' olnrv in tlw arth and air.
The sun has risen on Lake Beau Qairf
On the other shore, the waters sheen
: Reflects like a glass the forest green,
And lies in a deep and waveless calm -Around
the beautiful isles of galra;
A marvelous picture, strangely fair, 1
On the placid breast of Lake Beau Clair.
Fiercer and closer comes the heat,
For the noontide's fevered pulses beat,
And the Lake like molten silver lies
'Neath the dazzling light of tropic skies,
Till a blessed breath of heaven's own air
Is softly wafted o'er Lake Beau Clair,
Far in the golden afternoon.
The odorous breath of flow'ry June
Troubles the waters so deep and clean
Ripples and dimples them far and near;
For a zephyr, sweet as a lover s pray r.
Like a angel's wing fans Lake Beau Clair
In the radiant west the magic glow
Rrneati itself in the lake of snow.
And each pearly cloud in its shining fold
Is richly embroidered round with gold.
O whereon earth is a scene more. fair
, Than a sunset view on Lake Beau Clair!
My mother wrote many other beau
tif ul things about Florida, but in this
and particularly in the third and fourt
stanzas, she rose to heights worthy of
renown. The hand that wrote it and
the wonderful brain that conceived it
no more shall be occupied with
the troublesome things of this life; but
the name of Jennie S, Perkins will long
be known through this modest song of
the far South. Appleton & Co. used
it to represent Florida in their monu
mental work of ''Picturesque America
' The laziness of the native Floridians
.' has formed the theme of many a cheap
. joke. Andrew Carnegie, having noth
. ing better to. do, told the following
. story about a family living near Jack
."aonville. He said a clrcm parade or
lomethipgcf kind was. passing
near the cabin of an old Cracker, who
was Boated on the door-step with his
wife both chewing tobacco. He could
see the parade with the corner of ..his
eye, but the old lady could not see it,
the way she was sitting.
"Seems to be purty fine parade,"
remarked the old man. "What a pity
aint a-facin' that way," said the old
ady with a sigh.
I had to rough it in great shape in
the early eighties, when trying to get
start in the world down in Florida.
Part of the time I worked waist-
deep in the warm water of Lake Toho
pekaliga, helping lay jetty logs for
the Disston Drainage Company.
A number of alligators swam around
UBj and got so tame they would eat
corn bread out of our hands. -
We would catch the b'aby alligators,
about the size of good big lizards, and
play with them some, but it was not
safe for the old sow alligator to hear
the"unk, unk, unk" sound made by
her babies, for she would come charg
ing at us, and one sweep of her big,
thick tail would break a man's legs in
hurry, if he got in her way.
It was hard to get any place - to
board then, and once while "assistant
editor of a saw-mill" (as Bill Nye
would say it) at Kissimmee, I had to
ook a long time before finally secur
ing shelter at a little one-story shack
of a boarding kept by one JackKen
nedy and his wife, who was one cf
hose dark-skinned people they call
Minorcans, although she spoke only
Florida Cracker language. As I ap
proached, she was giving her little
girl a drink from a whiskey bottle,
which she offered me in turn, after
the child had taken a big pull at it.
refused. Mrs. Kennedy looked at
me very hard. "I B'pose you're one
of them there temperance fellers?"
o, I told her, I Bimply had- no' use
for whiskey. "Well then, you must
be a minister's son 0, no, you aint.
fer them's the wust there is. Well,
go in and take a seat, and I'll be in
atter while to git ye Bump'n feat."
went in. Soon the husband appear
ed outside and asked "who wuz that
eller you wuz a-talkin' to jist now?"
Jack, that's our new boarder. And
what do ye think, Jack, he refused 'a
drink of licker!" "Well, I'll tell you
what I think of him," replied Jack,
clearing up his throat, and groaning
slightly, "he'll jump his board bill in
side a week. I never knowed hit to
to fail, that when one of these-here
fellers is too good to take a drink
when hit's offered to 'era, "in public,
when they can git behind a chimney
summers with a black bottle, hit goes
'yugle, fugle' down their throats, and
ye cant depend on 'em fer nothin',
bey re nippercrits, tne whole kit an
bilin' of 'em. , You watch that feller
and make him pay his board in ig-
vance, I tell ye!" I paid "in igyance,'
and stayed longer with them than any
one elsa tber had, for there was no
other place to go. It would take the
pen of Charles Dickens to describe
that boarding bouse. Jack was drunk
bail tne time, ana sometimes i came
home (?) and find the landlady drank
too, anT the children crying for food,
The "star boarder," , a tall Texan
named Captain Potts, editor-in-chief
of the saw-mill where I labored for
twelve cents an hour, was one of the
worst drunkards I ever saw." The
very first evening , he was with us,
dominating everything from his place
at the head of the table, he suddenly
broke down, cried, and sobbed to Mrs
Kennedy; "You have brought me cof
fee without any whiskey in it moo-
boor Mrs. Kennedy explained that
she did not furnish liquor to her
guests, and then Potts arose males.
tically, turned his back upon us and
staggered off to bed. Not long af
ter, uur mrs. iook me aside and
asked my advice about an urgent mat
ter. Potts had gotten into the habit
of coming in during the day and going
to bed with his boots on, to sleep off
his drunk. She did not keep a very
tidy house, but that was too much for
even her standard of neatness. "J
G-d, Perk," she exclaimed, in evident
distress; "I don't know what I'm
goin' to do with that feller Potts. He
come in yestiddy mornin' at ten o'clock
and went to bed with bis boots on,
and he vomlcked all over everything
Hit was a Bight to the world. Perk,
he had mommacked op that bed like
a set-fired bog. I don't know what
I'm a-gwina to do hoo boo!" and
corner of her greasy apron wiped the
tea's away. -1 was always a mischie
vous boy, and the bad thoughts came
quicker than the good ones. I was
but a lad, and that may excuse the
atrocious trick which I immediately
devised for my sorrowing landlady to
try upon the "set-fired" Pott3. Hold
her to cut some stiff pasteboard into
squares, set them thickly with pins
and put them under the cover of the
the bed. She strewed his bed thickly
with the bristling squares, and await
ed the coining of the drunken man. I
wps at home that day when he stag
gered in. Soon a fearful yell coming
from where he had gone in to bed,
told that he had come in contact with
the pins. With the bed-quilt stick
ing td him, the angry man, running
through the house, swore at the top
of his voice that he would kill the one
hat put up the trick on, him. He
abruptly left, to the great relief of
all of us, and no doubt long ago drank
himself to death, I left there soon
afterwards, and don't know what be
came of tho Kennedys. My next
boarding placa was kept by nice peo
ple, and. in fact, the people of Flori
da are in the main a very intelligent
and well-bred class. --
Orlando, the county seat of Orange
county, is particularily noted for its
schools and churches. It will probab
ly be the capital of the state some
day.
' Lindsay S, Perkins.
Obituary. ,
Capt. H. A. Hunter, of McNany
County, passed away Marnh 25, 1916,
being about 92 years old. My" ac
quaintance with him dates back' to
844. when we were quite young. Our
associations were, congenial from the
very beginning, and the pleasant
scenes of life's long journey together
tell in unmistakable evidence 'of the
mutual good fellowship between us,
and the sweet memories thus aroused
comes to me like a .halo of ,glorv from
the past and enshrines my heart with
memorie's sweetest gifts.
H. A, Hunter was a great man. He"
was an honest, upright and honorable
man in every sense of the ' word. "He
was a conscientious man and was nev
er known to do anything that did not
accord with right and justice and his
chrfstianlik'e walk through life, speaks
more forcibly of his true character
than any praise we may bestow upon
him. " As an illustration of this good
man's worth and true merit, I shall
quote the language of one of SelmeVe
best citizens, a man of affairs and a
awyer of merit and distinction who
had been intimately acquainted with
apt. Hunter fifty years. He 'said
'that whenever H. A. Hunter's serv
ices were desired, as a juror or in any
other capacity in connection with the
courts' of justice, it was known and
understood that right would prevail
and that righteous construction of
the law as based upon what he consci
entiously believed to meet the demands
of justice, would be upheld." He al
ways had the best interests of his com
munity at heart and had a due regard
for others rights as well as his own.
Thus we see that this man's heart
was right and that his christian deeds
and Godly walk entitled him to a home
with the angels. T'is sadto lose such
a man and no doubt Selmer, his home,
that beautiful little town that nestles
amid tie picturesque hills of old Mc
Nairv's classic citizenship iweeps. To
his dear wife and children I would say,
weep not for your dear husband and
father. He sleeps only in the bosom
of his Master, apd by living pure lives
as he himself lived we may say in the
language of David of old when the
Lord took his precious child and he
rose up and exclaimed: "He can nevej
come to me but through the kind
blessings of almighty uod 1 can go
to him." And we have the same bless'
ed hope today left on record for our
consolation and while brother Hunter
is separated from us here on earth it
will not be long, if we live faihful to
the end, when we may meet and re
joice with him forever in the sunlight
of heaven's eternal glory. '-
W. C. Meeks,
For Sale.
I have fer sale a lot of choice,' se
lected Japanese cane seed for sale at
10c a pound, special price per bushel
Double the yield of ordinary sorghum.
Finely flavored syrup. f '
8, K, Wallace, Middleton, Tenn.
Uses and Abuses of Fertilizers
By Prof. R. J. H. Da. Loach, Dirsctor of Georgia Experiment Station.
.3. ROTHAMSTED EXPERIMENT STATION AND FERTILIZERS. . .
',. . - . The Third of a Series of Six Articles ; . .
The Kothamsted Experiment Station ia in' England, aud ia noted for
the great work it has done along all lines of agricultural work. It has
gone into the laws of soil fertility,' has been the first to discover many of
these" laws, and has in all ltB history been especially Interested in 'working
oui a plan of farm management by, which soil fortuity could be maintained
at minimum cost to the farmers.. : ' , - ...
The Hothamsted experiments besan in the year 1837, when Sir John
Bennett Lawes betcan experiments on his private estate. He was a man
who loved the soil and to experiment with it. Strange to say, he was a
fertilizer manufacturer in a certain sense, as he early discovered a process
for transforming boue into superphosphate by the use of sulphuric acid,
took out a patent for this in 1842, and built an extensive 'business which
he managed for about thirty years. In 1843 he associated ith -him J. II.
Gilbert, and these two men for more than fifty j;earg conducted extensive
agricultural investigations in regard to soil and fertilizers, ; and feedB and
feeding of domestic animals. In 188ft Sir John turned over his large estate,
which had now grown so important, and had become so well known in all
parts of the civilized world, to a board of directors, and endowed it with
half a million dollars. .
Twenty Years Experiments on Same Plots. V
Among many other things that were' done, experiments were conducted
with fertilizers, mineral salts, and many forms of ammoniates, also with
animal manures, to determine just what soils needed to grow the most crops.
For this work plots of ground were set aside, marked off and carefully
measured, and then planted to the crop with which the Investigator wished
to work. Small plots Would be used for the different kinds of mineral and
animal manures, and in each series one plot would be left unfertilized
throughout the entire experiments, while the others would have applied the
different combinations of fertilizers, etc. , Careful reports were taken from
each end of these plots, and with interesting results. The same experiments
'were continued for twenty years and more. , t ., .,
Many experiments were conducted with hay, and some of these with
the following results: The plots that had no manure of any kind averaged
in twenty years, 2,383 pounds of hay; the plots which had mineral manure
alone, 3,398 pounds.; the plots with mineral manure and 400 pounds of am
monia salts, 5,711 pounds of hay; those with mineral manure and 800 pounds
of ammonia salts, 6,728 pounds of hay; the plots which received the mineral
manure and nitrate of soda G.407 pounds of hay. ' Considering the very low
cost of the fertilizers in comparison to tha Increased yields .brought about by
their use, one could, not fail to see the value of the manure salts, '
I Larger Yields Were Always Obtained.
The Itothanisied station was Interested in the permanent Improvement of
land and the part played in this by the use of fertilizing materials. Prom the
many experiments carried out, there was never a doubt of the wisdpm of
applying plant food to the soil. Larger yields were "always obtained, other
things being equal, and the fertilization of the soils throughout England and
her possessions recommended. It was decided to ascertain the effects of
fertilizers on corn. Seven plots were treated as follows: (
.Plot 1. Unnianured. . '
Plot 2. Mixed mineral manure, 300 pounds sulphate of potash, 20 pounds
sulphate soda, 100 pounds sulphate magnesia, 350 pounds superphosphate
lime. ' '
Plot 3. Ammonia salts, comprising 200 pounds sulphate ammonia and
200 pounds muriate of ammonia. . . '
i Plot 4. Ammonia salts and mixed' mineral manures, as Plot 2.
Plot 5. Five hundred and forty pounds Peruvian guano.
- , Plot 6.' Two thousand pounds raDe cake.
- Plot 7. Fourteen tons farmyard manure.
. The results of six years of experiments follow; Th greatest increase
In yields was obtained with fertilizers richest in ammonia. The ammonia
salts, the gua.no and rape cake gave the largest increase, which was about
lour or five bushels increase of dressed com. In Plot 2, where only, the
mineral manures were used, the increase was least, while in Plots 3 and 5 it
was greater, and in 4 greatest. It seems'that the mineral manures needed
the effect of the ammonia salts in order to help them become available. There
. was in every case a substantial increase where fertilizers were used over the
plots that remained unnianured. -
The great object in giving the above information Is to bring to the atten
tion of farmers and business men that the question of fertilizers for the aver
ago farm crops is a subject as old as. any farm of agricultural education, and
Hothamsted did much fundamental work on it. In no case was it found
that ammonia salts and other mineral manures, wjien applied together, were
not valuable.' .Farmyard mannre was somewhat valuable by itself, but far
more so when ammonia salts were applied with it. . ., ,
ft
10,000 yds Loom-End Calico at 4 c a. yd
s COME AND GET YOUR SHARE , :
Wc have a nice line of men's, ladies' ; and
children's dress-slippers and tennis slippers
Overalls at the ; same old
as they last '
t. L. ANDERSON & CO., Selmer
Buggy for Sale. .
I have a new modern model twin-
seat top buggy for sale; good as new;
$D0 first cost, but will sell at a much
oer figure. Write W. W, Smith,
Route 2, Bethel Springs, or see me at
my home at Masseyville.
. - Notice.
Having qualified as Executrixes of
of the will of the late II. A. Hunter,
all persons indebted to said estate are
hereby notified to make settlement at
once and,8ave cost. . s
CoutN.N'A Maxkdon;
Mauy E. Steadman, r
Executrixes.
riAnvt.Li.uu GUiNt T.'T'.ZZzZt'V
DtPKHEirrTwi Uncrst Ui'C rUnvncrmcft rUmc
Fuitf tqwf H. low ruicio, Economical Cam.
Not eiAiNco,Bvr rovt Hiir.
1
Wc have a com
plete line d f men's
and boys' plow
shoes from $1.50 up
price, as long
Rubbish Eases Pmn
Rubbing sends the liniment
tingling through the flesh and
quickly lops pain. Demand a
liniment that you can Tub with.
The bet rubbing liniment is
Good for the Ailmenh of '
Morses, Mules, Cattle, Etc
Good for your own Aches, '
Pains, Rheumatism, Sprains,
Cuts, Burns, Etc.
25c5Cc$V '' Ac all Dealer. '
IQCK3
LJMC
CRACKING A WHIP OVER
GISH'S
NEW SPRING
UIT ASSORTMENT
. The hardest job we have had in a long time is to
do justice to the splendid Spring assortment of
MEN'S SUITS JUST ARRIVED AT GISH'S
The fact is, we have more fabrics than words to fit
them; more models than modes of expression;-more
colors than, adjectives; more novelties than nouns, and
more style in the clothes themselves than we can put
into the. copy. But, we would -rather have Gish's
Clothes exceed anything that we can say about them
than commit the not uncommon folly of putting into
print what we cannot put into practice.
The New Beauties Are
$18, $20 AND $25
The Clothes themselves are the Best
Advertisement ever
put over in Corinth
Ghas.
3 gas reag fess fessi v?jm
JACK KERB Y.
i
KERBY & INGRAM
TUBULAR WELL DRILLERS
-AND
I Farm Water Svsfenis
' ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANTS FOR PRIVATE HOMES
: ; Fairbanks-Mow and Southern -I
' ' Gasoline and Coal Oil Engines
j i
if WE- GIVE YOU
M PHONE 26, BETHEL
Barred Plymouth RocK Cockerels
r and Pullets for Sale
Setting of 15 Eggs for only 50c
. Purest Breed
EMMET GRAHAM, Selmer
fcead Tbe.Independent for the
Nws of the c9B0ty. -
H Gish
r&ss e&n wm pssi rsg rsi ral
EARL INGRAM,
DEALERS IN-
A SQUARE DEAL II
SPRINGS TENNESSEE ,
Saturday Evening Post
-sold every week. See
AFFRED WH1TEHURST, Selmer
J. E. HAMILTON'S
Barber Shop
For a Nice, Clean Shava crUp-tc-Data
Hair Cut
" Clothes Cleaned and
Pressed to look like new
Agents for the Southern Steam
Laundry Basket leaves every
Thursday. Bring ua your laundry
Hot and Cold Baths.
