ill
faftttitiifmt
VOL. 43
FARMING TON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1916.
NO 13
km
NEW
Easter Footwear
Now on Display at Our Store
Correct styles from the leading shoe man
ufacturers. A splendid variety to choose from, in
shapes and patterns to suit everyone.
Novelty designs of all kinds as well as the
more conservative ones.
Your Easter apparel will not be complete
without a pair of KARSCH'S shoes. We offer
you the largest and most varied stock to se
lect from in Southeast Missouri.
Hundreds are profiting daily by our Reor
ganization Sale. Are YOU?
KARSCH'S
"The Place to Buy Good Shoes"
FARMINGTON, MISSOURI
PROSPECTIVE
Have 60 Acres Oklahoma Mineral Land
One Acre of which Computed to
Yield $1,500,000 in Ores
Benj. H. Marbury, J. C. Watson, Dr.
John B. Graves and Taylor Smith,
constituting the Missouri-Oklahoma
Mining Company, returned from Mi
ami, Oklahoma, last Friday evening,
feeling like embryo millionaires. From
what we can understand they have
certainly developed a very rich lead
and zinc mine.
These gentlemen have purchased
60 acres of land in the very center of
that wonderfully rich lead and zinc
field. They have bottomed fifteen
churn drill holes, and each hole enters
the lead at an average depth of 250
feet and goes out of zinc at an av
erage depth of 310 feet, 10 feet being
lead of an average assay of 5 per
cent, and 40 feet being zinc of an av
erage assay of 15 per cent.
From scientific computations of the
two acres that have been thoroughly
drilled, their consulting engineer and
From a Former
County Man
The following letter is from Mark
L. Creegan, who was once Sheriff of
St. Francois county, and although he
has been away a good many years,
seems to have a warm spot in his
heart for his old home county and her
people:
St. Louis, Mo., April 9.
Mr. A.. W. Bradshaw, Editor Farm
ington Times:
Dear Sir: As St. Francois county
is my old home I want to continue to
keep up with the news there. I see
the tag on my paper reads, "April
1, 1916," therefore you will find en
closed the price for twelve months
more. I have never had the pleasure
of neeting you, but hope I will in the
near future. Your paper appears to
give the news, the same as when Mr.
Theo. D. Fisher was editor.
I see by the announcements for the
different offices before the Democratic
primary that the candidates are all
good men. If I were a voter there it
would be hard picking for me to make
my choice. But you have one candi
date that I can speak out for, and;
that is the Hon. John L. Bradley. He
is the true working man's friend, and
I can safely say that the Unions of
all trades will stand by him. I am
saying naught against any of his op
ponents, but John L. Bradley is the
man for the office and the strongest
man we can nominate.
I see you have only one candidate
for Representative, Mr. Moothart. He
must be a good man or he would have
m
"BIG FOUR"
superintendent assure them that they
have an ore body of not less than one
and a half million dollars ($1,500,000)
in value, and that from all indications
as to surrounding properties and drill
developments their property is worth
several times that value. They have
arranged to immediately sink three
shafts and construct a mill.
Would you like to buy some stock
in this company? Nothing doing.
These gentlemen propose holding on
to all the stock and developing the
mines themselves. They have ar
ranged all the preliminary work, and
from present prospects it will not be
long before they will be hauling the
lead and "jack" out of the ground by
tons. Well, success to them. Next
to making millions ourselves we like
to see somebody else making them,
especially when they are home people
and good friends.
opposition. I also notice that you have
assisting you in your work on The
Times a man that has always worked
hard for the Democratic party and
has never asked for an office to my
knowledge, and that is Mr. Theo. D.
Fisher. I think it is about time he
( was rewarded for his good work.
The number of union carpenters
i leaving here for Flat River to put up
buildings looks like Democratic pros
perity. The medicine is good for all.
It might act a little severe on Repub
licans, but they will get over it.
I am interested very much in the
Brightstone news items, as they are
from my old home. I an an ex-Knob
Lickite.
With best wishes of success to you,
I am, most respectfully, yours,
M. L. CREEGAN,
476B Cote Brilliante.
Several New Ones
The following new subscribers have
been added to The Times list the past
week, which means that the reputa
tion this paper is making for PUB
LISHING THE NEWS continues to
expand: Sam Larue of Elvins, Homer
Mitchell of Leadwood, Sam Isenman
of Farmington, Quincy Belknap of
uismarcK, Marion Horn of Bonne
Terre, W. L. Dunn of Marble Hill,
Judge Chas. Revelle of Jefferson City,
Mrs. R. D. Holland' of Marion, 111.,
John S. Gipson of Irondale, E. M. Bess
of Fredericktown, Frank W. McAllis
terof Paris, Mo.
Those who have renewed are: T. B.
Welch and P. A. Shaw of Farming
ton, J. E. Trask of Desloge, M. N.
Enormously Rich,
Mining Properties
George Trauemicht, son of Albert
Trauernicht, of this city, arrived Sun
day for a visit of a week or two at
his old home, and to undergo treat
ment for symptoms of appendicitis,
from which he has recently been suf
fering more or less. He already feels
greatly improved, and he and his pa
rents are hopeful that an operation
will not be necessary, at least not at
this time. George has been connected
with mining industries for Ihe past
ten years, and at present is bookkeep
er tor the uilharz Mining Lo., near
Commerce, Okla.
The many friends in this commun
ity of O. M. Bilharz will be glad to
know that he is the principal owner
of one of the best and most extensive
mining properties in the rich field
recently opened up in the vicinity of
Commerce. The Bilharz Minim; Co,
now has one mill running, and ano
ther in course of construction, and are
taking out high grade zinc and lead
as rapidly as it can be mined. Mr.
Bilharz was for a number of years
superintendent of the Doe Run Min
ing Co. in this county, where he still
has a host of friends. He is recognized
as one of the best mining engineers in
one of the best mining engineers in
the world, and while he was one of
the highest priced men in the employ
of the Doe Run Co., it was practically
nothing in comparison with hi; pres
ent holdings in the Commerce field
Murder or Suicide?
Last Monday the body of Nick Vos
cow, a Russian miner, was found
about a half mle from Owl Creek
bridge off the road leading from Des
loge to Leadwood. The body was ly
ing in a clump of cedar bushes, coat
off and under the head, left hand un
der the body and right hand extend
ed, three pistol shot wounds from a
:i-caliber pistol in the breast one
near the heart and a pistol lying
beside the body.
A Mr. Butler passing that way saw
about fifty yards off what looked
like the form of a man lying on the
ground, and going over to it found
the dead body. As soon as he could
he notified Coroner English, who sum
moned Prosecuting Attorney Davis
and instituted an inquest over the
body.
The inquest developed the fact that
the body was that of Nick Voscow,
a Russian miner. He had worked for
the Desloge Lead Company up to
about three months ago, when he lay
ed off and went to St. Louis. A few
weeks ago he returned to Desloge and
stopped for awhile with a couple of
cousins. On Sunday about thrfce
weeks ago he left there to look for
work and they had not seen him since
until his dead body was found, and
no one could furnish any trace of his
going and coming since he left his
cousins' place three weeks before.
Voscow, who was about 29 years
old, married last summer, and it seems
that he and his wife did not get. along
very well; they quarrelled, and it is
reported that she tried to commit
suicide. The last heard of her was
through some relatives of Voscow in
St. Louis, who had not seen or heard
from her for two months. It develop
ed also at the inquest that Voscow
hod been Very despondent.
The Coroner's jury returned an
open verdict. Everything indicated
suicide except the three shots in the
breast, and there was some question
as to whether Voscow could have shot
himself three times, all of which shots
penetrated the body. Also the tracks
of a light wagon making an abrupt
turn were found about one hundred
yards from where the body lay; sug
gesting that it might probably have
been hauled to where it was found.
Wallen of Bismarck, Hugh McGregor
of Potosi, C. J. Stanton of Ste. Gen
evieve, G. G. Bolch of Cabool, M. L.
Creegan of St. Louis.
Route Extended
Ora Turley, mail carrier on Route
2, informs The Times that
has been extended, to take effect May I
m . n
lst, next. The extension will be north I
from Boothe's corner, thence north- j
east to the old Thurman Post Office
site, thence south to Harris' corner,
where it will intersect with the orig
inal route. Such extension will be
a great accommodation to a number
of residents along such route.
I Initial Meeting
of New Council
At a meeting of the City Council,
held Saturday afternoon in the City
Hall, the newly elected members of
the Board of Aldermen were sworn
into office, after which the regular
business of the meeting was taken up.
The Auditor's annual report was ap
proved and ordered filed.
The Collector's annual report was
approved and ordered filed.
The City Treasurer's annual report
was approved and ordered filed.
Electric Light Bonds Nos. 14, 15, 16
and 17, aggregating $2,000, was by a
vote ordered paid and cancelled. A
warrant also was ordered drawn in
payment of interest and outstanding
Electric Light Bonds, amounting to
$462.50.
A. C. Boyd, who had just been re
elected City Collector, presented a
new bond in the sum of $3,000, which
was approved.
M. C. Zimmer was elected President
of the Board of Aldermen.
The following committees were ap
pointed: Auditing Committee M. C. Spaugh
and Guy Tullock.
Street and Alley Committee Gus
Schliesser, Barry Phillips, Richard
Adams and John A. Coffman.
Light, Power and Water Committee
M. C. Zimmer, Guy Tullock, M. C.
Spaugh and Barney Pelty.
Ordinance Committee M. C. Zim
mer, Richard Adams and Barry Phil
lips. Board of Health Entire Board.
City Physician Dr. S. F. Weber.
Street Commissioner L. W. Blo-
meyer.
The resignation of Frank Highley
as City Marshall was tendered, which
was accepted, ai d Chas. Adams was
appointed to fill out the unexpired
te: in.
Temptation Was
Irresistible
Frank Malone stepped into Donald
son's Restaurant at Flat River last
Monday and ordered a lunch. Mr.
Donaldson carelessly laid down a small
sack of money, about $100, behind the
counter, and shortly after stepped
back into the kitchen for a moment.
Malone, taking advantage of the brief
absence of the proprietor, lifted the
sack and made a hasty get-away. It
was not for long, however, that he
enjoyed his ill-gotten gain, for he was
overtaken between Bismarck and
Irondale by Constable Edmunds and
John Fitzpatrick, taken in charge
and brought back. All the money ex
cept a dollar or two was recovered.
Deputy Sheriff Brown was notified,
went over to Flat River and brought
Malone to Farmington. He is now
meditating in "durance vile" over the
folly of yielding to temptation and
swiping his neighbor's goods.
Beer Party
Deputy Sheriff Tom Brown, who
has been particularly busy the past
week, during the absence of Sheriff
Williams, who is visiting in Texas,
received a telephone message at 8:30
Tuesday evening, stating that a rob
bery had been committed about three
miles northeast of Farmington, and
that the victim and thieves were head
ed this way. Deputy Brown was
awaiting them, with a reception com
mittee, when they reached the city
limits, and proceeded to arrest the
entire bunch of seven, and took them
to jail, where an examination was con
ducted, with the assistance of Pros
ecuting Attorney Davis.
The fact was developed that the
party had been out to Cushmar's beer
house, just over the boundary line in
Ste. Genevieve county, and were re
turning home when the alleged rob-1 through, upon, under and across the
bery occurred, six riding in a. surrey public highways, streets and alleys in
and one horseback. Henry Wampler, 1 and adjacent to the unincorporated
who claimed he had been robbed of towns, cities and villages of Flat
$23, accused the negro driver and a River, Desloge, Esther, Cantwell, St
white man with the crime, while the Francois, and on the public roads con
others were in different stages of un-: neeting said towns, and on the roads
consciousness, all pretty well
"jag-
ged".
The two parties accused were lock
ed up for the night, while the others
r -- w wn tiuuc w v.iiaac
their "jag" homeward. Further invest-
igation the next mornincr. however.
failed to develop sufficient evidence
to justify the holding of the parties
accused, and they were turned loose.
Public sentiment seems to be that no
one should have as much money as '"'"ids as follows: T. H Wcddle. $57.
$23 while engaged in such a "pil- 46; J. H. Shaner, $1130.30; H. P.
primage." '!-. Ceo S4-
OUR PUBLIC LIBRARY
To Be Moved to the Tetley Building
Business People Give Pledges
for Current Expenses
At a meeting called last Saturday
by some of those interested in the
Public Library, the question of loca
tion was considered. Owing to the
fact that there will be no supervision
in the High School building, where
the library is now housed, during the
summer, the necessity to place it and
the reading room in a more central
part of the town faced them, and with
it the question of raising money to
carry out the idea.
This meeting was attended by rep
resentatives of the various educa
tional, philanthropic, social and re-
ligious organizations, and $55 was at
once pledged. Of course this was on-1 It would really take about $700 or
ly a starter, and a number of the wo- $800 a year to pay the rent of a
men volunteered to make a house to suitable room, a janitor and a libra
house canvass to collect money and rian, for the room should be kept open
stir up an interest in the Library, at all times as a reading and rest
Mayor McKinney was seen by the room. The City Council has gener
Secretary of tho Library, Mrs. M. P. ously agreed to furnish the water and
'Cayce, and with his broad insight in-
to the needs of the town, he at once
took a lively interest in the move-
ment and sturted to work at once.
He selected A. S. Davis of the Farm-
ington Mercantile Company and Bar-
ney Pelty of Pelty's Book Store, to
assist him in presenting the matter will be of great and lasting benefit to
to the business people of the town, the community, are much encouraged
with the result that up to this time over the interest taken and the pro
they have secured pledges to the gress made.
amount of $360. This money i3 to be j A first-floor room in the Tetley
used for current expenses. It will take building an ideal place for the Li
considerably more than an annual brary has been optioned, and will
pledge of this amount to secure the doubtless be taken for the purpose,
success of this laudable enterprise, j Farmington should be on the list of
Those making pledges of monthly libraried towns in the State. All that
payments are M. P. Cayce, E. J. c-j is needed to place it in that list is
Kinney, W. M. Harlan, A. S. Davis, the full co-operation of its people
Barney Pelty, W. R. Lang, J. J. Rob- j a long pull, a strong pull and a pull
erts, L. H. Williams, Morris Bros., J. j together. We have confidence enough
A. Knowle,', J. Clyde Akers, Mell & in their pluck U. say lifey will do it.
County Court
Proceedings
I West, $230.35; D. P. Marks, $2154.73;
Court adjourned on Thursday of last ; L. W. Merritt, $831.44; Joe Perry,
week, an-J the latter part of the week j $80.66; S. A. Sykes, $46.31; E. b!
and the first of this, was occupied on Shelley, $37.83; F. H. Mullen,' $61.93
Board of Equalization work. Con-j e. D. Hall, $39.26; J. S. Jarnagin',
vened again on Wednesday of this , $109.79; B. G. Porter, $76.81; J. W.
week, and the following business was
transacted :
J. F. Hicks paid off school fund loan
and satisfaction was ordered entered
upon margin of record.
N. C. Sebastian was loaned $1,400
of the County School Fund, giving re
quired bond and security.
E. B. Shelley made settlement as
supervisor of expenditure of sub-,
scription and appropriation for im-
provement of Bonne Terre and Jay
dee road.
David -A. Moon was loaned $940 of
county school fund, school townships
Nos. 11 and 21, giving required real
estate security and bond.
Collector instructed to return as
erroneous assessments of Sam Larue,
curator f Lilly Shrewberry for years
1915 and 1915, reduced from $725 to
$225; of Willard Wigger, he being as
sessed in Ste. Genevieve county; of
Wm. Rawson, reduced from $275 to
$25; of Frank Thurman, assessment
fixed at $600 on 62.20 acres.
ine court toott a recess and in
company with Highway Engineer
Francisco, made a tour of inspection
of roads and bridges, inspecting Jack
son and St. Mary's road, Flat River
and Desloge to George Ford bridge.
and Flat River and Loughboro via
Elvins.
Harry Tucker and H. E. Leverenz,
constituting the firm of Tucker & Lev
erenz, were granted permission to
place, erect, construct and maintain
leading to the incorporated town of
Elvins, the necessary poles, conduc
tors, mains, conduits, wires, cables
pipes and other apparatus, includine
j woo ii 1 1 o unu ua luit.i ivi
the furnishing of light, power and
heat in such localities, the same to
comply with Section 10515 of the Re
vised Statutes, for the year 1909.
Warrants Issued
To road overseers fir road district
Phillips, A. C. Boyd, L. O. Wells, W.
N. Fleming, City Drug Store, A. F.
Davis & Son, E. M. Iaakman, Tetley
Jewelry Co., Fischer Mterc. Co., J. M.
Karsch Shoe Co., Klein Grocer Co.,
J. P. Cayce, Dr. J. B. Graves, Clyde
Morsey, Dr. O. A. Smith, James J.
Croke, C. W. Francisco, Denby Sisters,
Mrs. S. C. Watts, O. J. Mayberry, K.
C. Weber and E. C. Barroll. There
are others who have not yet been seen
who will fall into line. The Times
will publish from time to time the
names of those who subscribe as they
are furnished by the soliciting com-
mittees.
lights free. It would easily bo worth
the price, and there ought not to be
any trouble to raise that amount. The
Library will have to got along with
less if that amount cannot be raised,
but we believe it c-n. Those inter-
ested in the Library project, which
90; Harry Strong, $1724.90; M. W.
Jones, $48.02; L. E. Cole, 42.05; J. D.
Huff, $18.46; Wm. Rosenstengle,
$336.83; Wm. Dugal, $61.38; J. S.
Hopkins, $89.93; Frank Bieser, $107.
89; F. M. Riggs, $86.58; A. J. Ken
non, $86.66; R. V. Sumpter, $620.47;
Drs. Weber and Eugas, medical ex
amination H. W. Wallace, $5; State
Hospital No. 4, care Wallace, $78;
Pelty's Book Store, stationery for
Highway Engineer and Prosecuting
Attorney, $13.25; J. S. Wood, moving
and storing ballot boxes, $1; Lead
Belt News, justice blanks, $28.45-
City Drug Store, jail supplies, $6.40;
A. C. Boyd, Court House s-.innlies
$1.60; Farmington Times Printing
Co., stationery for public schools, $4;
Farmington Telephone Co., service,
$30.54; Standard Printing Co., sta
tionery for Recorder and County
Clerk, $38.16; W. T. Haile, Treasur
er, services school funda, $28.33;
Mt. Vernon Sanltorlum, support county
patients, $21.72; Vernon Doss, ser
vices as night watchman, $2; Klein
Grocer Co., court house and jail sup
plies, $1.30; Buxton & Skinner, war
rant register for County Clerk's of
fice, $17.52; W. T. Haile, stamps,
$4.85; Mell & Phillips, Inf. supplies
$20.99; W. H. Rottger, Inf. supplies,
$2.50; A. Neidert & Son, funeral W.
J. Thompson, $10.20; Klein Grocer
Co., Inf. supplies, $10.45; City Drug
Store, Inf. supplies, $4.90; H. S.
Knauss, corn for Inf., $40; C. W.
Francisco, road improvement $4,000;
Standard Supply Co., stationery, $2.-'
85; T. N. Henderson, Inf. supplies
$11.80; Tetley-Klein Lumber Co.'
Inf. supplies, $27.52; R. C. Pigg, con
veying H. W. Wallace, $4; W. R.
Bruce, support of Geo. Bray, $5.20;
Jacob Helber, Inf. supplies, $5.55;
Sam Thompson, quarantine service,
$13.50; Drs. Keith and Topping, ex
amination of Duncan infant, $10;
Bell Oil Co., court house supplies,
$2.50; St. Louis Bindery Co., supplies
for Sheriff's office, $16.75; Jacob
Helber, court house supplies, $4.
Court was engaged all day on the
new assessment books, and will wind
up the business of the present session
today.
You should not fail to patronize
the Fancy Work and Bake Sale, to be
held in the Pipkin building :"on Satur
day. April 22, by the ladies of the
Christian Church.
