THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 26.
DARHE, VERMONT, FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 191G.
PRICE, OXK CKXT.
TURKS DRIVEN
BACKON TIGRIS
LONG DISTANCE
British Won" an Important
Victory in Mesopotamia,
According to Official Brit
ish Statement Issued in
London To-day
CALLS MARSHALL
IN CONTEMPT
House Committee Submits Report On
Investigation Growing Out of Im
peachment Charges Against
U. S. Attorney.
Washington, 1). C., April 14. The
House selected committee to-day submit
ted a report pronouncing United (States
Attorney Mars lilt II of New i ork trinity
of contempt for criticising tho House
sub-committee investigating impeach-
merit charges against Marwlinll made by
Representative Buclianun. Action was
postponed.
BANDITS LOST
IN ATTACK ON
U.S. FORCES
REPULSE GENERAL
IS THE CLAIM
Small Attack by Germans
' South of Douaumont Was
Repulsed by French A
Violent Bombardment by
Germans West of the
Meuse
FOUR MORE ARRESTS.
In Alleged Conspiracy to Put "Fire
Bombs" On Ships.
New York, April 14. Four more ar
rests were made last night in connection
with the alleged conspiracy to destroy
ships carrying war munitions to the en
tente allies by plncing "lira bombs" in
their cargoes. A warrant is out for one
other, thus involving nine persons alto-
gcther.
The four men arrested Inst night are:
Carl Schmidt, chief engineer of tho
steamer Friedrich Per Grosso of the
North German-Llovd line, and Frederick
Pracdie and Carl Paradise, assistants io
Schmidt, and Charles Karbade, also an
assistant engineer aboard the big Cer
man liner.
Men Who Are Thought to
Have Been Out of General
Tranges Command At
tempted to Defeat Guard
of Motor Supply Train and
Failed
LEFT ONE MAN DEAD
AFTER SHORT FIGHT
pie and the American forces, that many
deaths hud occurred on both sides.
"General Obregon has already given
orders to prevent continuance of. battle,
hut the excitement is so grektt among
the people that I fail to know whether
the struggle can be stopped.
"Call on the secretary of state and
advise him that the occurrence Is due to
the unwise action of the American coni'
niander in having entered Parral with
out the permission of the authorities,
violating the orders of that government
forbidding the occupation of towns by
American forces.
"I'leuse cause the secretary of state to
sen that it is unwise for American troops
to remain any longer on our soil, as more
serious incidents than the present one
which wo must avoid at all cost, may
develop.
"Please make use of any arguments
you may deem advisable to put an end
to the situation created by the presence
of American troops in our territory, I
will keep on advising you through the
foreign olhco of any further incidents.
WILL PRESENT
U.S. EVIDENCE
TO GERMANY
Supporting the American
Contention That Pledges
Guaranteed by the Ger
man Government Have
Been Violated in Subma
rine Warfare
London, April 14. The defeat of Turk
ish forces in Mesopotamia by the British
was reported officially to-day. In an en
gagement on the Tigria river the Turks
were driven back from one and one-half
to three miles.
Paris, April 14. West of the Meuse n
violent bombardment was delivered oy
the Germans against the French lines to
the west of Hill No. 304, says the I'reiuh
official communication published tin
morning. Yesterday evening, east of the
Meuse, a small attack was made on
French positions south of Douaumont
but it was completely repulsed. I here
was a lively liombardment south of Han
rlremont, and in the Wocvre district ar
tillery duds took place.
BRITISH OFFICERS'
CASUALTIES 23,962
Of That Number 724 Were Killed or Died
of Wounds Since the Outbreak
Of the War.
London, April 14. The officers' casual
ty usts for February show that the Brit
ish lost 2(53 killed, 597 wounded and 1
missing. This brings the aggregate loss
of officers, since the outbreak of the war,
to 23,002, of whom 724 were killed or
died of wounds, 14,735 were wounded
and 1.7S7 are missing or prisoners of
war.
During the month Brigadier-Generals
Sodson and Harvey were killed, four lieu
tenant-colonels were killed and four
brigadier-generals were wounded.
80 TRADING VESSELS
OF HOSTILE NATIONS
SUNK IN MARCH
German Admiralty Says That Their De
struction Was Accomplished Either
By Submarine Or By Mines.
Berlin, via wireless, April 14. A state
ment issued by the German admiralty
under yesterday's date says that in tho
month of March 80 trading vessels be
longing to hostile countries, with an az
gregate tonnage of 207,000, were sunk
by German submarines or mines.
BRITISH REPULSED
GERMAN ATTACK
AT CARNEY
Bitter Hand-to-Hand Fighting Only Re
sulted in the Germans Leaving Their
.Ooad at Boiselle Germans Ttok
a Few Prisoners.
London, April 14. Strong German at
tacks rave been made on two points of
the British line in France and were re
pulsed In bitter hand-to-hand fighting.
Sovtral German bombardments preced
ed tho Rss;ii;lfs, which at Carney were
made in three suceessie naves. The
Germans r'whed the Biitih trenches,
hut only left their dead there.
At La Boiselle, the Germans entered
the British line and took a few prisoners
before beis ejected.
Th.' British statement reads:
"The cn?n.y made a raid Tuesday
night on .i;r trenches near La Boiselle,
nl'dr a heaty bombard m-nt, in which he
uod a large proportion of lachrymatory
shell, lie uas driven out. We lost a
tVw mm takn prisoners. .
'.H't night 1 lie enemy made three at
tacks n i.ur tierches northeast of Car
net . These attacks reached our trenches,
but were diiven back, the enemy having
some .had in the trenches. A few men
l'cngitig to a party working on our
front vt ire arc missing.
" I Im-m- wa some shelling to-day alw.ut
iui li'-r and t arency, between lsis and
Ilnhenmllern, and about St. Ehu. We
reta'iatn asainst the enemy positions.!
This morning the enemy exploded a small
mine in lloheniollern ; no damage was
done.
-'Ihre was trenrh mortar act it it y in
tV nation and aV.nt Arras to-dav."
HOVERING NEAR DEATH.
Mrs. Charles E. Willett of Burlington
Took Bichloride of Mercury.
Burlington, April 14. Ms. Charles K.
Willett, residing at the corner of Cherry
and St. Paul streets, is hovering between
life and deHth, having taken four bi
chloride of mercury tablets, eadi contain
ing seven and one-tenth grains of the
deadly poison, last W ednesday afternoon
during a ht of despondency.
The woman was found in her home by
a member ot lier tamuv, wno at once
summoned Dr. H. E. Colvin of Cherry
street, who arrived almost immediately.
Dr. O. X. Eastman and Dr. B. D. Adapw
were also summoned but did not arrive
until nearly 6:30 o'clock. When Dr. Col
vin (ascertained the amount of poison
which had been taken by Mrs. Willett,
he at first thought that even heroic
meaures would be useless, but fortu
nately the very amount of the dose
proved helpful, as the stomach rebelled
and threw off most of the poison within
five minutes alter it was taken. Dr.
Eastman Hnd Dr. Adams aided in the
work of doing evervthing possible to help
Mrs. Willett, and washed the organs of
the body thoroughly in the attempt to
remove the bichloride of mercury.
Whether or not the patient will recover
cannot be ascertained for several davs.
DENIES SHOOTING.
Respondent in Sharon Homicide Goes on
the Stand.
Woodstock, April 14. Rapid progress
was made yesterday in the trial in Wind
sor county court of Newell Ix'ighton,
charged with the murder in Sharon on
Feb. 21, last, of A. C. Gibson during a
dispute in a. timber lot over the owner
ship of some logs. Leighton took the.
stand and told his story of the shooting
of Gibson. He denied that anv of the
three shots fired wn deliberately aimec
at Gibson and stuck to hi story under
severe cross-examination. The state s
witnesses testified that the rifle was
aimed at Gibson.
The testimony given by the state to
day was substantially the same as pre
sented against Leighton's father, Charles
Leighton, who was convicted on the same
charge last week and sentenced to 17
years' imprisonment in the state's prison
Another .son of Charles leighton, Walter
Leighton, will probably be tried on the
same charge nest week.
There Were No Casualties
Among American Troops
According to Information
Which Came from Persh
ing's Camp, Deep in Mex
ico
Pershing's camp at front, April 12, via
aeroplane to Chihuahua, April 13, via El
Paso Junction, April 14. About 40
mounted men, believed to have been Vil
la soldiers of General Tranges' command,
Inst night attacked an automobile supply
train and were driven off after a short
fight. One bandit was killed, but there
were no American casualties.
SEVERAL KILLED
ON BOTH SIDES"
AT PARRAL
ADMITS HIS GUILT.
Henry Bedard Pleaded Guilty to Stealing
Bond Wire in Burlington.
Burlington, April 14. Just before a re
ce was; taken in Chittenden county
court yesterday until Tuesday morning,
next, Henry Bedard, who has been con
fined for some time in the county jail on
the charge of stealing bond wire from the
tracks of the Burlington Traction com
pany, was arraigned and pleaded guilty
to the Information filed against him by
states Attorney Theodore E. Hopkins,
charging him with the theft. Sentence
was deterred by the court. Bedard was
partner of Henry L. Muir, who pleaded
guilty a few days ago to the same charge,
and the authorities, who believed that a
gang have been engaged in the wir
stealing operations, are hopeful of cap
turing the rest of the band. The court
assigned F. G. Webster to defend tho
prisoner.
Sherman P. Wade of Milton, who was
indicted Wednesday by the grand jury on
the charge of assault with intent to kill,
appeared in court, and asked that R. E.
Brown be assigned as his counsel, which
request was granted. State s Attorney
Hopkins intimated that inanity would
! probably lie the defence in the case and
asked to have the accused sent to Wa
terbury for observation, but no action
was taken in the mutter.
BARRE MAN GETS BEQUEST.
Hiram Bresette Shares in $10,000 Estate
t Palmer, Mass.
Springfield. Mass.. April 14. When the
will of Miss Sophia Brooks, who died in
Palmer, February 22. came liefore .fudgi
diaries L. Ing in probste court yester
day, it was approved and David F. Dil
lion of Palmer was appointed executor.
Miss Brooks left an estate of about
$10.ii0.
The testatrix left about 13 heirs. It
was stated in the will that no lieniiet
snould go to .iscon itreeite ot Lenanon,
X. H. a relative of the testatrix. Among
the bequests were: Hiram Bresette,
Barre Vt.. Fred Bresette of rainier and
William Bresette of East Il.it ley. Can.,
-Vi each; Jennie f trow nine of New lon
don. Conn.. ?1'": Alfred O. Bresette of
Palmer. tV. and Alfred G. Bresette,
$r0. The will was made in P'll.
FACE ARSOJI CHARGES.
Fovr Men Arrested and Six Others Fart
Indictments. , FINES TOTAL 11200.
Ho-t"ii. April 144. Inves'ijTution hv I " "
i"e rr.iiid birr of the operation of - Four White River Junction Residents
ailed arson trust resulted te-t-rlav in
Mexican Report So States, But Funston
Has Been Unable to Get Informa
tion from Pershing Regard
ing the Affair.
WUshington, D. C, April 14. General
Funston to-day reported to the war de
partment that he had received no word
from Pershing on the fight Wednesday at
Parral, but was continuing to press hiui
tor information.
r Secretary of War Baker expresses the
hope that the trouble was purely local
and did not presage further difficulties.
General (larran.a, directing his em
bassy here to point out that the clash
proved his contention that the presence
of American troops in Mexico is leading
to a situstion which threatens to go be
yond his control, telegraphed that many
deaths had occurred on both sides.
Foreign Minister Aguilar in a dispatch
sent before that from General Curranza,
said one American trooper was killed and
several civilians were wounded.
Consul Garcia, the Carranza agent at
El Paso, wired the embassy that "several
persons were killed on both sides." His
dispatch added that when the American
troopers entered Parral the people pro
tested and it appears the garrison did
also."
This latter statement is in direct con
tradiction to the dispatches of Carranza
and Ajrmlar, which declared the t arranza
troops attempted to hold back the Mexi
can mob. A report to the state depart
ment from Consul Letcher at Chihuahua
forwarded through General Funston. said
there had been some trouble at Parral
when the American column was fired
upon by Mexican civilians.
Newa of the clash was contained in the
following telegram from Queretaro, dat
ed Wednesday and sent by Foreign Min
ister Aguilar to Llise Arrwdondo, General
Carranza's ambassador here:
"Please confer with the Honorable Sec
retary Lansing and inform him that to
day at 1 p. m. a column of 130 American
soldiers entered the city of Parral. The
mayor of the city, Jose de la Lug Hcr
rera, immediately called the attention of
the commander of this column to the in
convenience of his entering the city, his
soldiers withdrawing, but when they
were leaving the people protested and
the mayor and military commanders
tried to control them with their appeals!
in order to prevent friction, but owing
to the imprudence of a civilian, who fired j
hot, a general disorder followed, in
which one American soldier was killed
and several civilians were wounded by
shots from American soldiers.
Military commanders succeeded in
checking the mob at Maturana to pre
vent them, from following American
troops, forming a cordon of cont itution
alist soldiers.
"In this connection, the Mexican gov
ernment warned the government of the
t'nited States from the bceinnine that it
would be unwise for American troops to
pas through cities, due to the impossi
bility to avoid friction between them and
the people and our forces at an unexpect
ed moment. The American government.
to that effeet agreed to give the neces
sary instructions to its troops to have
them ah-tain from occupying any towns.
The Mexican government deplores the
occurrence, but it wss beyond its efforts
to prevent it and insists with the Ameri
can government on the necessity of with
drawing its troops from our soil in order
not to give room for the alteration of
the good and cordial relations which lxth
countries are obliged to preserve."
PARRAL BATTLE
MORE SERIOUS
THAN REPORTED
A FINAL DEMAND
WILL BE MADE
American Detachment of 140 Men Was
Attacked and Using Machine Guns
They Killed or Wounded Over
100 Mexicans.
El Paso, Tex., April 14. Unconfirmed
reports indicate that the battle in Parral,
in which a detachment of 140 American
cavalrymen were attacked by citizens, was
more desperate than indicated in the
Mexican official advice. These reports
say the fight lasted three hours and that
more than PM) civilians and Ctorranrii
soldiers were killed or wounded and one
American was killed and several were
wounded. The Americans are said to
have used machine guns.
But No Time Limit Will Be
Set, So That It Cannot Be
Considered as an Ultima
turn, Although Develop
ments Are Expected to
Follow Soon
Washington, D. C, April 14. It was
indicated to-day that the next step in
the submarine crisis, probably the send
GIRL'S STORY OF WAYWARDNESS. I lo mn' 01 cumulative evi
ilence which the I nitsd States contends
Results in Arrest of Three Young Men shows violations of Berlin's assurances,
and Search for Others. will be taken within 4S hours. Develop-
Revelations made to the authorities by ments are expected to follow rapidly
Vae Coffin, a 13-year-old Washington The evident collected bv Secretary of
girl, resulted late yesterday a.ternoo.i m state Lansing was placed before the cab-
luc Hiiesi. ut tniee jihiiu ouiiif iiiiru uu i . , , ,
hartres of statutory rane. Beniamin
I'restini. a bellhop employed at Hotel eabinet showed no disposition to let the
Barre; Edward .Milne, a bootblack, and Mexican situation postpone action on the
Henry t olombo were taken in custody by ,hmni. nnestion Tho Jminli ration
Uiiet Mnclair and oivstalile t.eorge l.. considers the German note praeticHllv
.tiorrm on capiases issued oy .--taw ai- Uhows that a submarine attacked the
lorney r. r.. lilcason. in astiiiigton n.,,,.,
county court lat nwlit, hail was hxed at ir..i.lnf Vil,n r,.l l, K;t r
iXMM1 in each ojse ami Milne and I'res
tini, failing to secure bonds, were re
manded to the countv jail. It is expect
ed tlmt the respondents will lie given a
trial in the present term of court.
Statements involving Milne, I'restini
understood to have agreed that the pres
entation of the facts shall be accom
panied by a definite and fund demand for
evidence of Germany a good faith and
ohservance of her guarantees but prob
ably it will be accompanied by no time
ATTORNEY DECLARES
DRIVER NEGLIGENT
In Arguing Case of Seth C. Rich, Who
Sued George H. Cross of Northfield
for Death of Mrs. Rich in
Automobile Accident.
and l oiomoo ana otner young men tor ,imit wIlich vro.Ty uU described
i"""- "7001 as an ultimatum.
by the Collin girl soon after she was de
tained at police headquarters by Chief
Sinclair Wednesday, lesterdsy she re
peated her storv before Magistrate H. W.
Scott, the state's attorney and Chairman
J. A. Mealy of the nldermanic police com
mittee. According to her statements,
she came to Bnrre, from Washington Sat-
i,.,!.,,' a !.-. ....... U i.n hn. mV,.r- r
turned homo without her. she beg,, to British Boat Inver,yn W Torpedoed
ONE AMERICAN
AMONG SAVED
FROM STEAMER
make shift for herself, she said. Appar
ently she made many acquaintances and
one immediately pressing problem, that
of finding a place where she might spend
the night, was solved when members of
a North Main street club gave her shcl
ter until Sunday morning.
On another night, she told the authori
ties, she wUs provided with a room at a
hotel on Pearl street. On the night be
fore her detention she went on, a young
fellow gave her lodging in the basement
of the Aldrich block. After accounting
for her movements throughout her brief
sojourn in Barre, the Coflln girl gave the
officers the names of young men with
whom she had associated. It is said that
some of the information was of a very
surprising nature and that it may be
used advantageously, the officers think,
in clearing up a situation or two that has
developed through the week.
The girl's statement that she was only
14 years old was not coiroliorated by her
father, Glenn W. Cotlin, a Washington
blacksmith, ho came to Barre this morn
ing to see the child. Coffin told Magis
trate H. W. Scott that his daughter was
born in the first hour of the first day of
the first month in the first yeai of the
Joth century and that she wa, therefore.
past 15 years old. The girl was brought
into court under the juvenile act at 10
o clock. Her father, who accompanied
her. was closely questioned as to the
girl's behavior. He told the court that
lifferenc.es between the girl and her
mother might be responsible for the
transgressions of the former. The youth
ful resiiondetit appeared to lie very peni
tent and ready to go home.
Magistrate Scott was inclined to look
with disfavor on the proposal to take
the girl home, suggesting that the father
make an effort to place her with a re
speetable family living at a distance
from lHith Barre and Washington. Coflin
promised to locate a place for the girl
anil in the meantime she will remain in
the home of the sheriff at the county
jail. I'nder the juvenile act the girl will
be sentenced to the stite industrial
school, unless a more desirable environ
ment is provided for her. the judge said.
The oflieers believe that a start has
lieen made in a housecleaning program
that is designed to have a good effect.
Ixienlitic that have been under ..scrutiny
Tuesday Afternoon and a Boat with
Eleven Men is Missing.
Queenstown, Eng., April 14. Captain
Charleston and 11 men of the British
steamship Inverlyon landed to day and
reported their vessel sunk by a sub
marine Tuesday afternoon. One of the
crew who was rescued is an American.
William Loss. Another boat from the
Inverlyon, containing 11 men, is missing.
TAPPING THE HILLS FOR WATER.
Artesian Well Is Drawing Fine Flow 0u
Top of Morrison Farm.
On the wooded slope thst curtains th.1
Morrison farm plateau on west hill en
gineers have completed the sinking of an
artesian well 132 feet below the ground,
the first test, which was completed last
night, indicatirg a steady (low of cold
water in a volume far exeteding the ex
pectation of Manacer C. A. Neveau as
well as the engineers, ilrilling had ben
in progress several davs. Below a depth
of six feet every inch of the well was
bored through a solid ledge. A pump
having been attached, pumping was
started at 7:43 a. m. Thursday, a steady
flow of two barrels per minute being reg
istered until 3 p. m.. when the pumping
ceased. Water stood 5 feet from the
surface when the pump was installed and
after seven hours of pumping, in the
course of which more than Nihi barrels
of water was removed, the water leiel
dropped only a foot.
Work has been carried on under ths
direction of men in the employ of the
Bay State Artesian Well Co. of Warren.
V. If., and Woodsvllle. V. H. The pres
ident of the company, K. J. H. Trask.
was present at the tet yesterday and
many from this city and farmers from
the outlying sections also attended. In
asmuch as the surface of the artesian is
on a considerable eminence, the water
level in the well is much higher than any
of the buildings on the farm, so that
the water w ill run directly out of ti'e
well to the roofs of the house and barn.
Arguments in the case of Seth C. Rich
administrator, vs. George H. Cross, in
which the plaintiff seeks to obtain $ll.illH)
damages for the death of Iim wife, due,
it is claimed, to the negligence of the de
fendant as the result of an automobili
accident which occurred on Northfield
street, Montpelier, last August, were
commenced in county court this' forenoon.
In the opening argument bv the attor
ney for the plaintiff, Warren K. Austin,
stress was laid on the evidence, as shown
by the plaintiff, that the automobile wa
being driven 3. miles an hour when the
accident happened. Attorney Austin ar
gued that the testimony brought out the
tact that the defendant was entirely fa-
rhiliar with the highway where the fatal
ity resulted, that he knew the dangerous
condition of the road and that instead of
exercising due caution because of the
fact that it was dark and foggy and the
road harbored ruts, the opposite was the
ctise. The plaintiff, argued Attorney
Austin, contends that the defendant was
guilty of gross negligence even if the
machine was not going Master than 1
miles an hour, a speed admitted by the
defendent on the stand. The degree of
care to be used is governed bv the degree
ot danger and knowing the latter as he
did, the defendant failed to be duly cau
Hons.
In deciding the compensation Mr. Aus
tin requested the jury to consider the
worth ot Airs. Bich to her husband,
cripple, almost wholly dependent on his
wile lor support and he dwelt on the
alue of Mrs. ftich as a money producer
her business capability and her probable
longevity, barring such an accident as
occurred.
Taking up that iwrtion of the evi
lence concerning the condition of the de
fendant, whether or not intoxicated, Mr,
Austin sUid that the plaintiff did not
ish to be unfair and no contention was
made that Crows was drunk, but that he
was in a state, of intoxication.
In his argument, the plaintiff's attor
ney also asserted that it had been shown
that the accident was not in any way
caused or aided bv any act of .Mrs. Kicli
She had not molested Mr. Cross, nor had
she called his attention bv any spoken
ord or action.' The responsibility, he
arguen, resiea entirely upon tne snoui
ders ot the defendant.
Attorney J. Ward Carver spoke for the
defense this forenoon and Frank Plunilcy
also argued for the same side, finishing
up his plea this afternoon. He was foi
lowed by Mr. Austin in summing up for
the plaintiff. It is expected that the case
will go to the jury late in the day.
The attorneys for the defendant en
deavored to prove that the automobile in
question was not moving rapidly at the
time of the accident. Mr. Carver said
that the cause of the vehicle slipping oil
the road was because of the sott condi
tion of the highway at that point, lb'
also told of the relation between Rich
and his wife ns tending to show how
much money Mrs. Rich would have given
to her husband had she lived and been
aide to continue her occupation. Attor
ney f'lumley referred to the rutted con
dition of the road, a fact which the
plaintiff had fought all through the case.
he said, only ,to accept toward the end
and to utilize for its own side of the
case, lie said that the situation, there
fore, resolved itself down to the question
whether the car was being driven rapid
ly, and he said the plaintiff had intro-
lueed only two witnesses to assert that
the car was g"ing fast. He then referred
to the difficulty to determine the speed
of a car when the machine is coining to
ward one and in the face of lighted head
lights.
TO SWEAR IN
20 DEPUTIES
To
V
Assist in Keep?- tne
Peace in the T let
Slate St
SHERIFF APPEALED
TO GOVERNOR GATES
There Were Some Minor
Outbreaks of Inter
ference To-day
NEW PASTOR ARRIVES.
Rev. Bailey 0. Lipsky Conducted His
First Service at Hedding Church,
Rev. Bailey G. Li tusk v. the new pastr
of the Hedding .M. r.. church, arrived in
the city from Gorbam. Me., last evening
and conducted hi first service in his new
pastorate at the Thursday evening pr.iv
er meeting. Mr. and Mrs. Lipsky and
their two children were met at the sta
tion by a delegation from the church and
went at once to the Methodist parsonage
on French street.
Mr. Lipskv was born in Seattle, Wash.
in 177 and received his public school
education in that city. He Attended the
preparatory school and college of the
I niversity of the racitic m San Jose,
(a!., receiving his degree in 10l7. A
charge in Brlggs, Cal.. occupied his atten
tion for two years until he came east in
1000 and entered the Boston university
school of theology. After his graduation
from the seminary in 1913, Mr. and Mrs.
Lipsky have been loos ted in Gorham, Me.,
where Mr. Lipsky occupied the pulpit in
the Sch.iol street" M. E. church. y
Mr- Lipsky is also from the West, lie
ing a native of Linden. Cal. She attend
ed the Cniversity of the Pacific during
Mr. Lipsky's undergraduate course and
later took one year at the theological
seminary with him.
Mr. and Mrs. Lipsky have two children,
a son five years of age and another son i
not quite three months old.
Rutland, April 14. Sheriff E. C. Fish
to-day asked Governor Gates for author
ity to appoint twenty special deputies to
help keep order in the Pawlet slate dis
trict where (100 men are on strike for a
slight advance in wages. Six regular
officers went to the scene yesterday and
Sheriff Fish and State's Attorney Poulin,
went there to-day.
Near-riot conditions prevailed this
morning when the strikers unhitched
the horses and took the teams away
from the strike-breakers who endeavored
to move slate which was ready for ship
ment. This is the most serious strike
experienced in the belt for 23 years.
Granville. X. Y., is also affected. "
Yesterday the situation became more
serious when cutters, trimmers, splitters
anu otner employes joined the pitmen
who walked out Wednesday, demanding
an increase of two cents an hour.
In response to an appeal by the quar-
ryowners to State's Attorney Poulin of
this city to provide protection for their
property, six deputy sheriffs were sent
there yesterday. State's Attorney Pouiirt
said last night that the deputies had been
clothed with proper legal authority to
make any arrests thev deemed neces
sary" in case of trouble.
A step toward settlement of the trou
ble was made yesterday afternoon when
committees representing the several na
tionalities were chosen to meet the em
ployers, but so far as known no confer
ence has been held.
QUINCY AGREEMENT
WAS ENDORSED;
STRIKE AT END
Manufacturers' Association Voted Last
Night to Accept Agreement, Closing
Suspension Which Hag Been
Running for Six Weeks.
Quincy, Mass., April 14. The Quincy
iranito Manufacturers' association at a
mass meeting last night, voted to endorso
the action of its committee in signing
agreements with the Granite Cutters
union and unions of the polishers and
tool sharpeners Wednesday night. ThU
action formally ends the strike which be
gan March 1.
The committees representing the vari
ous unions and the manufacturers got;
together Wednesday mght and signed.
the new bill to run for a period of five
ears. 1 he last point at issue was over
hand polishing, whether lumpers should
do a certain amount of soch work. The
polishers' union met Wednesday morn
ing, and there was quite an exciting;
session. In the afternoon a mass meet
ing of granite workers was held, at the
end of which it was announced that all
points had been settled. It is stated un
officially that lumpers will be allowed
to do hand polishing in emergencies, pro
viding they are not allowed to work
more than nine hours in any one week.
VINAL HAVEN MEN
SIGN 5-YEAR BILL
MILLER'S INN SOLD.
if so desired. Ample fire protection is
are said to h.tve been expo.cd in t!ie Hrl's j thus afforded, as a man with a hose
statement to the authorities and other connecting with the well can t,tand any
infonnation involving rather sensational J w ere on the ground around the buildings
disclosures was turned oter to the state's nni throw a heavy stream over the struc
attorney. it is stated. jtur-'s. The water maintains an aterage
temjierat lire of less than 43 d gnvs an I
is soft and pure.
As a further demonstration of the ca
pacity to draw water, the pump will l
taite, sgsin next Tuesday aftcrn.ion.
beginning at 1 o't!nk.
SECOND FIRE IN TWO DAYS.
CAR RAN ZA DEEMS IT "UNWISE"
For American Troops to Remain Longer
in Mexico.
Convicted ef Liquor Seliipg.
Corliss Morrill of No. Danville Lost Ba.n
Sooa After House.
St. Johnsburv. Aprd 14. Corliss Mor
rill of North Danville, a farmer, whose
house was btirneil einc.lv with a l"s
of Jtl.iKSl. suffered another loss venter-
day when the main barn on his farm ;
was destroyed with all of bis farming
implements and iv tons of hay. Mr. M 'r
rill and family were taking dinnr w th a
neighbor w hm the fire was di.iver-d
and th" bii. kct brigade whw ii was Imr
NUTE WON CHAMPIONSHIP.
Defeated Mattel In Candlepin Match at
Lowell, Mass.
Strike Was Ended Yesterday Afternoon
After Long Conference in Which
Secretary F. W. Suitor of
Barre Joined.
Vinal Haven. Me., April 14. The gran
ite strike which has been in progress
here since March 1. affecting IM ltihorers.
was brought to a satisfactory conclusion
vesterdav afternoon, when a new bill of
prices was signed covering tie years.
The strike was called off after a loner
conference, in which the manufacturers
were represented by G. F. Bodwell. E. F.
Russell. Joseph Leopold. Charles Chillis,
William Booth and Joseph S. Bhu-k, and
the strikers by their executive commit
tee and Fred W. Suitor, secretary of tha
Quarry Workers' International union.
The participants of the strike were tha
quarrvmen. derricKmen. engineers ami
arpenters in the employ ot tnree hrmn.
The riunilcr of men out was approxi
mately .list, but the strike also brought!
enforced idleness to the cutters, so thst
the strike virtually affected 7f men.
A sliding settle of wages was adopted.
The quarry men and derrick men who havn
vn receiving a minimum wsce of fi
will receive from JJ.IO to Tim
engineers, who were getting a minimum
WHk'e of i.J3. will revive from .2..13 (
f-.t. The princ ipal contract affected is
at the Bodu-ell's, getting out the towers
for Hell Gate bridge. The other work;
is mostly paving cutting.
the arrest of four men, each chargH wit'i j Ww
ettinjr fire in oca pie-1 building. Six'l.ui Fi
Whington. I). C April 14. The note
from tarranra to his embassv here a
follow:
4ftr mpwip Kent vmi br S-cretjrv
of Foreign Affair. Aguilar. the secretary j"'' """ich tt oj-t, window j th firt
of war received a tnease from Iwneral ;"d I !, i in the hr mow Vedne"r i Varl-1 1-d Ni
Montpelier Hostelry Purchased By Edwin
S. Meigs.
The Miller's inn. located on Main street
in Montpelier. was purchased today by
Edwin S. Meigs of Montpelier from
Thomas H. Ce. jr.. the administrator
of William Miller's estite. The price is
id to have been in the vicinity of if'io,.
S1. It is a three story brick building
and wa erected in ls''". Mr. Meig will
take possession at on. e and ndl assume
personal t-harge of the con ,, t of the FUNERAL OF MRS. ALBERT COREY.
hotel. He plan to increase the aoom-
mndat iotM that about 33 rooms will Held at St. Monica's Church Burial at
provided. The dmuig rooms w ill !e , Berkley Street Cemetery.
The funeral of Mrs. Len. Coiey, agel
. wife of Albert Corey, w ho- death at
her home on Ptopet street Wednesday
moftiinif followed a prol'iiccl peii rf
MofiH-a'
continued on the ground floor s uim1.
Transactions in Probate Court.
A. C. Thi-riault of Montpelier ha set-
Ixiwell. Mas., Aprd 14. UamM Nut
M-,... F V II ,.n f t, ...... I1 . . . 1 I 1... .inMn.t. in Ti r. .,- t .. .Mir, - . I
k... -fcatr.raonsltin an. I . . .;:..., ..( tt,e ..tt. ..f t fai.:Mi health, wa liel-l in St
ril!y gather-! unsbi- t- rope w .th j U, Blfnl hr heating Clie.t.T Mart-I ' Thrift, lat f I'JainnVU. Ralph C. Brow n "hurcli this morning t ! o'el.k. 1.
the flame. It is tVig!t that a s'k;0f Jewell in a 2" string crttct. 2.174 t b wttie-l li iwmnH as nr, .it..r ,.f H'"1. . t- r of t. e St nn c -l-
frorn the burning bouse mi.-'it hate rtt-i-i ,i ,-tate of Miria F. Crsnr l;it of " rri"""'- fffic?atint'. Manv ri I-
10 strings in Maitrhetter Mw.tpe!wr. Frank I". Comolli of tfcirre ' r'' ' " ''' ""' , ,r"m nr 1"",
nte. 1fcj to I. Cat. In the ha t-n wint-l arfmin -trat.-r of the '-- "''" 1 t'f.
Woodstock, Aprd 14 Mary Fairarano. ! i;t wrrer. dated at t bihuahtia. iTiforming ; I moui..rel th-rr until it TAe j i triif la at mM Nut seorod .t jtt of Natalie IMfssi. lat of Barr.-. Mc n in town fr twjiiir. 1 !,
ocupiel building. Six I l.ui rucci. .Mr. I errsa Hio-i and atmo ; him that it had brcn in,i-'We for m.li-'" f't !.:" I'-ithj. 1 Me h'lilimx rm to I."-- I'W .tlartrl. I t.e r-: ,.l..-ph !. ft f.arrr rss l-en ar- i-rrr ct-: ,.n-..i i -e. ,.. ...-, mUt-
. tr indh tro.-nt rem in to be sorted. J Romano of White River Jun.-tion were I trr mmmadr. to ? k the . tahie.l at '. w!.,le the fsrn- r.'i Nut- 1'. 123. l. 1 .1, lid. o. mte1 ffiirdian of T!mo K. NeU-n. ,rt. barley an ! V ..ter. 1 Vrs
one of no'ii sought, accord. r.g to ;- i fine! J.il raeh in the iif-rnr curt j a?a'mt American tro.;-. who enter 1 ! i-n; n-Tt and ay will aod .M..- t-t. 112. Ill l.o4. ' minor, of Purre. T'.,- will Mann! !.'., " mi-nroi fne f.?l tr:botrs. la-
trirt torey' . btifg an imiranrj here ;cterdj a tharg of sciling I.- I arm I and that thin rtrssiny lApnl 12 the lot., sist artia:ir c-ird Ijr Mrtrl- !". Ml, , o, 117, I :.'. latr of M ntpl er, haa ta tie 1 trim tit wa. n.ad in the tat Iodic crme-
aijastt.-. i;j7. the !.-U had cvntinuej trtwB ur tv roauiao - I'iS, V , lr tot i-ruba. l-ry ca lsi kl. v Hiul.
