4
twm m
VOL. TvXXX.
MIDDLEBURY, VERMONT, IjTtlDAY, AVRL M, 1010.
NO. 1ft
'T'.' r
feV
Don't Let Easter Pass
Without douing new Sprinfj attire at the
Ivcs iv. Slnmbo Storo. Everything is
Spic-and-Spnn-New dependable in quali
ty and Most Reasonably Priced Take a
peep at our Easter outlay. Suits, Over
sacks, Hats, Shirts, Neckwear, Hosiery;
Collars and a general line of Furnishings,
Compnro Qimlltv nnd I'rices nnd wo will stnnd by your di'ctoloii.
IVES & SHAMBO,
Thc Olde.st IjHtnbllHlied ClothiiiK Flrm In
Middlebury,
Vermont
DISTINOTION
DEMANDS
ATTENTION
High class styles at popular priccs are our mcthods of securing
your patronagc our qtiality and service will hold it.
This is the last week before Easter to reinind you what items
you sliould put on your shopping list for Dyer's
Here they are
Coat
Suit
Sllk Wnlst
Succkssoi: T0
F. V. Bkckwitii
Neckwear
GlorcH
Iloslcry
rcntlier Iton
Hnudkcrchicfs
Iland Hajj
DYER'S
MlDWJHIUKV
Vkkmont
QUALITY BOX
A T7"T? I'ut u p in Sanitary
vAfcI"1-, Buxes. None Retter
Give It A Trlnl.
Kicldcr's Fainous Bread
for Balu at grocers,
W. 33. GU Y,
Will See to Your Eyes at The
ADDISON HOUSE
Wednestlay, Aprll 26
Correct glasses will bring you ease and
comfort. See us for yours. Estab
lished 1886. iSt2
Real Estate
We offer some very good trades in
houses in Middlebury Village.
One good medium sized house on
Court St. with bath room. Ad
joining building lot.
A 3 family house opposite Methodist
Church on No. Pleasant St. large
lot ; barn. A good investment for
some one.
FARMS
We have a large list of good farm
trades. If interested, call wrirte or
telephone.
New partial list just out.
N. S. FOOTE CO.
Bnttcll Block
Middlebury, Vermont
WE SERVE REGULAR DINNERS
35c
LuiichcB nt AII Hours.
KIDDER'S RESTAURANT AND
LUNOH ROOM
Middlebury, Vermont.
SECRETAUY MOUHOUS RESIGNS.
A PERFEGT GONNECTION
is gunranteed by w. We hold ourselves
out to be electrioiaiiH who cau lay out
your electrical work iu a way that ninkee
for elliciency. No fires due lo erosHini!
of ehctric wire?. We make things Bafe
as well as ship shnpe and our prices are
low, considrring the high order of our
workmHtishipand the express guarnutee
of eatisfaction thatgoes with it.
WALTER CALHOUN & CO. '
Middlebury, Vermont.
Y. M, C. A. County Commlttee
Aooopts Realanatlon of Pop
ulnr Soorotary,
Atn mi'otingof tlio County Commlt'
teo of tho Y. M. C. A. Mondny ovetv
ing Secrotnry Lymnn A. Morhoua
tendored his rcHinntlon, whlch wuh nc
coptcd with rogrot. Mr. Morhoua tnndo
it clenr tluit ho hnd docldcd ileflnitQly
and poaitivoly to withdraw from tho
work nt tho closo of tho orgnnlzntlon
your, Mny 1, Resolutions commcndinir
him for hlacnrmjstnnd faithful sorvlces
woro pnased unnnimously.
Mr. Morhoua, who ia a grndunto of
Middlebury Collcgo In tho class of 1910,
acceptod tho position of Secrotnry of
tho i . M. C. A. of Addison County nnd
Brnndon nbout four years ngo. At that
time tho orgnnizntlon wnH in debt and
tho outlook discournging. Ho atnrtod
work with viRor nnd good sonso nnd
soon hnd Rroupa of boys orRnnizinR in
aoveral towns in tho county. Debts
woro pnid oir nnd tho finnncos put on
bottor bnsis. A bottor foolini? towurd
tho orgnnizntionrosultcd.
Thero hnd hcon sugKKCstlons of n Coun
ty ARriculturnl Ajont nt various tirnea,
but nothiiiK dofinito wna nccompllshed
until Mr. Morhous hounn to nut in his
timo to work up intoroat nnd support.
Hissorvicesinoirecting tho orgnnizntion
whlch finnlly socurod nn nKont for tho
county have hecn gratofully rec
ognized.
One of tho nlnna of Mr. Morhous wns
n cnmp for Addiaon county boys on
Lake Champlain. IIo put a good deal
of work inty this project and Cnmp
iroquois nns oeen very successtul m
Riving mnny boys n plensnnt outing who
would otherwiae hnve had no such
chnnce.
Mr. Morhous hns been popular with
boys and will be Rreatly missed by
them. It is hoped he will remain in
tho county, a position hnving been of-
fcrod him in the State Industrinl School.
Itepresentatives of the Stnte Indus
trial Committee wcre present Mondny
ovoning nnu plans for the continunnce
of the work were discussed. The meet-
inp; was hold in the new local Y. M. C
A. rooma in the Hattell Iilock under
the post ollice. J. A. Iinrrs presided
and A. W. Eddy acted as Secretarv.
D. L. Wells, trensurer, presented n
report. Others present were John E.
Weeks, Charlos I. IJutton, M. A.
Thomns, Dr. H. L. Averill, W. N.
Cndy, Kev. L. , M. Isaacs and J. M.
Thomas.
CANDIDATES FOR SHERIFF.
H. E. Sanford of Cornwall and
Fred E. Rowley of New Haven
out for the Office
Candidacics aro becoming numerous,
nnd this week we have the announce
mentsofH. E. Sanford of Cornwall
and Fred E. Rowley of New Haven.
Thc letters nre given herewith. Both
men have served as deputies and both
have rnany. friends in the county. The
candidacv of George S. Farrof Bristol,
also a deputy sherifT, has already been
announced. A good contest may be ex-
pected.
MR. SANFORD'S LETTER.
To the Editor of the Register:
By the request of many friends, I
wish to announce that I shall be a can-
didate for the office of sheriff of Addison
County at the September primaries on
the Republican ticket, and if nominated
and elected my ten years' of service as
a deputy will enable me to perform the
dutiesof the office to the very best of
my ability.
Hakijison E. Sanford.
MR. ROWLEY'S LETTER.
To the Editor of the ReRister:
I desire to make use of the columns of
our vaiuauie puplication, to make
formal announcement of my intention
to become a candidate fbr the office of
High SherifT of Addison County at the
primary this fall.
That I am quulified for this import-
COMMISSIONER II1LLEOAS MAKES
STATRMENT.
New Eduontlonnl Hoad Outlinos
Vlows on Vermont Eduaatlon,
Through tho ontorprlao of n wnrm
friondof tho Rogiator, Mr. Thomna H.
Ormaboe, of Ilrooklyn, nn intorvlow
with Dr, Mllo II, Hlllogns hna. hcon
aecured for our coltimna, Tho stnto
mont la of gront intorest nnd import
nnco, ns Indlcntinp; tho rognrd in which
tho now Commisslonor Ih hold in hla
proscnl pjsltion na well na hla nttltudo
townrd hla now work,
Mr. Ormaboo'fl communicntion ia ns
followa :
"Dr, Mllo I'. HlllcKnn, tho nowly np
pointed Commisaioner of Educntion, is n
very buay innn aa nasocinto profeasor of
educntion ntTencherfl' Collego.Columhin
University. However, not bolnp; un
ncquainted with the schools of Vermont,
he hns begun to Iny his plnna for his
Vermont work to begin nnxt .luly, nnd
ho recently found itimo to tnlk about
them for the Registor.
"It wns Fridny nftornoon nnd lnckcd
little of threo o'clock,-the hour 'set hy
Dr. Hillegns to listcn to nnd ndviso hia
stuuents. 'Hio littlo ollice-study wns
well fdled with cnllers, somo sitting in
tho bcnt wood chairs. others upon tho
large onk tnble, nnd others stnnding,
sinco tho cnpacity of the chnirs nnd
tnblo leftnonltornntive. However, tho
'stnnding room fonly' condition seemcd
to make but littlo difTorence to the
assembled compnny. AII of which from
tho squatty little Iowaan 'school-marm'
to tho raw-bonod and 'R'-less South
Carolininn, were busy talkingof but one
thing, Dr. Hillegns' nppointmcnt to
the Commissionership of Educntion of
Vermont. AII seemcd of the snmo mind,
the consensus being that Vermont has
chosen wisoly and that her educationnl
future. will be ably directed. But, as
was said by the little Iownan, whoae
gray hnir nnd evory manner proved be-
yond doubt thit she had already seen
not a few years of active pedagogical
service, 'Whycouldn't they have picked
any other man thun Dr. Hillogas! He
is the one that Teachers' College can
east nfford to lose from ita faculty. '
"Hardly had these words been spoken
when the door opened, and smiling nn
unmistaknbly cordial 'Good afternoon'
to all, Dr. Hillegas walked in. He is a
thick set, muscular man about five feet
eightjinches tnll. His hair, close cropped
and beginning tobe abitgrizzled, offers
nn especinlly fitting background for his
slightly weather-tanned but highly ex-
pressive and sincere face.
"One after another the students, all
of them post-graduates specializing in
educationnl subjects, were attended to,
their troubles heard and advice given,
always with genuine interest nnd mas-
terly comprehension of what was to be
done. Then, when the last one had dis-
appeared Dr. Hillegas settled himself
back in the swivel chair before his roll
top desk and began to talk about his
new work,
" 'I go to Vermont", commenced the
Commissioner-elect, "firmly believing
that no State similarly situatcd has any
more promising educationnl future be
fore it. Vermont has had its period of
critical examination and is now ready
to enter upon a constructive era, both
broadminded and in some respects radi-
cal. Also, Vermont has an exccption-
ally high grade of teachers, which to
gether with the present statewide desire
for improvement, I am sure, will in
short order eliminate any weak spots
that now exist. In the matter of ele-
mentary schools and school teaching, I
hnve long since known that taking them
throughout the State there is not a
single one of the really big modern de
velopments that is not being given a
trial somewhere.'
"Speaking about the curriculum Dr.
Hillegas continued, 'It is not going to
be my policy to make any radical changes
at first but rather to build up a uniform
course of study for'the elementary and
secondary schools which will be capable
of adaptation nccording to the condi-
tions of a particular school. With this
BTJRPEE'S SWEET PEAS
For 1916.
The Spencer Type and the Graudiflora Tall
"THE SEEDS THAT GROVV"
We have a dozen or more varietics in solid colors and
a mixture made Irom these varietics at
10c Per Ounce
Thc Burpee Blend of Reselected Spencers mixed at
SOc Per Ounce
Sheldon's Rexall Store
OPPOSITE POST OFFICE
H. A. Sheldon, 1843 Dr. Wm. H. Sheldon, 19 16
NINE DAYS MORE
Easter Dress
Is Not Complete Without
Our New Sprmg :: ::
FOOTWEAR
Our Windows Tell Thc Story.
Have You Seen Them ?
THE QUALITY SHOE STORE
Telephone 32-2
F. A. KVANS
Successor to W. E. Clement
Middlebury, Vt.
BABY CARRIAGES
ant position I feel quite confident, inas
much as I have served the town of New frame work and by means of the super
Haven as constable for the nast six- intendonts nf thf various union school
tecn years and have also performed the districts, I hope in due time to have the
duties of deputy sheriff in this town and . , , , J , , , , ,.
other parts of the county for the pn8tatandard of the backward rural ordis
fifteen years totthe best of my ability. trict schools upon a par with the best
Being in the prime of life and having anvwhere; not but what there already
gaineti consitieraoieexperience in actual nre'quite a few excellent rural schools.'
service, I feel confident that I can per-, ,
form the duties attendant unon this1 un me ouier nanu 1 nope 10 see me
high office satisfnctorily to the people junior high schools multiply so that for
of Addison County. ( the first two years no boy or girl need
uThl?rh .nmttVn"W0tbeen Rosofar that heor she can not live at
honored with a county ofhcial for many f , , . 4. . . ...
years, and my fellow townsmen inform home- 1 feel that " 19 not advis-
me that I will receive the unanimous able for them to be away from the
support of the voters of my home town home influence so early as'this. As for
1 t uV.Z ' "i t i Pr,mary-P tu those who wish to continue the high
I have no criticism to make of the . . . . .. .. b .
conduct of the office in the past, but I scno01 wo. wy they nru 01-r ana
can assure the voters of the county, better fitted to go to some neighboring
that lf elected tothe position. I Will tnwn whioh nfTpra thn rnmnlptp pnnrsn .'
devote all my time that is necessary to ..After 011tiininc. this nlnn of increa9.
propeny penorm mc uuties ot the . .. , , ,
office, and I will give my strongest ,nB the number of junior high schools,
fforts to accomphsh a firm, fair and ur. Hillegas went on to the normal
iust enforcement of the law and order school question, pcefacing his remarks
in this county at all times.
r . E. kowley. tContmued on i'age 4.)
OF QUALITY!
Beautiful in Design
r
No fretfulness from jars just contentment in the softly gliding'
evenly balanced Pullman Camages. Roomy, yet cozy, comfort-
able. Springs are the best; soft and strong. Carriages with
windshields and reversible jrear. Also an assortment of Go-Carts.
D. S. PEASE,
FURNITURE AND UnDERTAKING
Telephone call night and day
66-2.
MIDDLEBURY,
VERMONT.
I
SPRING CLOTHES
SPRING SHOES
1
With Easter nenr at hand and warmer weather just nhead
the question of new clothes and shoes claims attention.
SPRING SUITS SPRING DRESSES
SPRING WAISTS SPRING SKIRTS
Complete Outfits for Ladies, Misaes and Chlldren
NHOES Six standard makes LaFrance, Boardman, forwonien;
Douglass, Walkover, for men ; Walton for girls j J. P. S. for boys.
OUTFITTI2US FOR EVI5RYBODY
MIDDLEBURY SUPPLY CO.
Thc Stqrc That ntlsflcs
Lazarowltz Block Formerly Chapnian Block, Middlebury, Vt.
TelephoncNo. 52-2
