'J'arri I nrl tl
fan'Ul Buiiuin
g
Published in the Mo
renci - Clifton District.
Population 15,000
The Oldest Copper Pro
during District in the
State of Arizona.
AND HORENCI LEADER
VOLUME XVII.
CLIFTON ARIZONA, FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1916.
NUMBER 47.
tinnrimi uiiTrn on
liiUnuiul WHICH UU.
DEFENCE
Management Replies to the ' Union
and Denies the Charges Preferred
MORENCT, April 10 W. L. Du
Moulin, superintendent of the Morenci
Water company, ifcas addressed the
following letter to the unions of Mo
renci in reply to their recent denunci
ation of the company in resolutions
in tne 131 Paso Herald:
"Ifnpencl Ariz . March 30. 1916.
PUBLISHES
"Morenci Mine, Mill & Smeltermen's Saturday by Engineer Mcllveen, who
Union No. 2, Morenci, Arizona. is in charge of the work, and in a
"The copy of the resolution adopt- very snort time rumors of the strike
very much, interested me. This is the the southern end of the county made
firsc .-iti-.ai.ion teat I have that your a rush for the property and proceed
body had adopted such a resolution ed to Ket busy locating claims.
ana the contents is Hews to us. r- j y parkf and Daye WiUIams of
"We are about to send a telegram a! Duncan were the first to bring the
so inviting the commission to come ' .
here and investigate the situation.., news to Clifton on last Sunday and on
The present schedule of rates was de-- Monday several citizens of Clifton
termined by the Arizona corporation motored to Franklin to look over the
commission and we feel that we find and lt te understood that later
have been lenient in applying them.
However, if we have failed to carry, many of them located on claims ad
out the commission's regulations . jacent to the well. For some weeks
properly, we will gladly correct our
practices in any manner that the com
mission indicates. Until the i confr
mission hs? investigated the situation
we feel at liberty to make only the
following comments:
Charges Denied.
"In the second paragraph you state
that the federal investigators pro
nounced these bills unjust and un
reasonable. The federal investigat
ors at no time investigated the af
fairs of the water company. In view
of these facts I do not understand
how these men could presume to pass
judgment upon the" reasonableness pf
the water company's Charges of
practices. They were not tn a posi
tion to do so. as they lacked authorita
tive information
"The resolution states that Ve are !
informed that these bills are to be Itrict are large consumers of oil, sev
presented to the state for payment. !eral carloadg a month being .used in
Th i-i 'informp.tlon is a very agreeable : , . ..
surprise to us, as this is the first time thia district alone. The production
we !have heard of such contemplated ! of crude oil in Jhis section would prove
action., We would, very much apt j of great benefit to the companies
predate it if you will inform us who the act that heavy freight
Is contemplating such an action, as ... . , . ,
-we desire to thank the party ' or grates-wpuld be eliminated, such as
parties for making such unusual ef- they are now paying to have the oil
fort3 in our behalf. 'shipped in from California. And
Says striker8 Interfered. not only would the local companies
"The present method of handling the . . vt K,.
town situation was inaugurated Sep- - benefit by the production, but bet
tember 1, 1915. Practically ever ter prfces to other mining districts in
since that time, local conditions ihave 'Arizona and New Mexico could be
been very unsettled. However, we made than Dy foreign concerns and
have given as fair and impartial ser- . . . . , . . . .
vice as circumstances permitted, al- the vrodnct would find a ready sale
though greatly handicapped. Here is 'in the southwest.
an illustration of what 2 mean: Dur- ; The people of Greenlee county are
ing the strike, you will no doubt re- jiiving in hopes that the well will turn
member, your organization twice took :out t0 De a regular gusher and that
our man in charge of town work to
your headquarters and made prepara
tions to run him out of town unlaw
fully and without just reason. Again,
only on March 28, members of your
organization interferred with and pre
vented men on our force at the plant
.nm ir, rr 1X7111 nn... .nt iln ..a
tho jnmlce to give us the rejsen for ! There ia a rumor abroad ln Morenci
this interference and intimidation of ; this week that a number of foreign
our men by your organization? As capitalists have secured an option on
a public utility, it is our desire to 'several patented mining claims near
(dve the best service possible, and Morenci, on which stands the present
in order to do so, we need the co- site of Newtown. It is understood
operation of our consumers and of that these men, whose names have
ali organizations in Morenci, and we not been made public, are contemplat
have not had it from youra. ing the expenditure of a large sum of
Bills for Several Months. 'money in the erection of buildings
"The bills sent out to our consum
ers at the close of the strike, to
wb'ch you refer, covered four- and
five months water rent and naturally
seemed unreasonable. As time goes
on and the indebtedness of the con
sumers increases, the total charges
will seem still more unreasonable and
out cf proportion. Whether or not
the bills are unreasonable or, whether
or not our practices have been in ac-
cordance with the commission's regu-
lations, there is no justification for
advising your members not to pay
the water rent they owe us for water
furnished them or for your organiza-
tion to refuse to pay any of its water
bills. Payment should continue to be
made until the commission has investi
pated us, after which the adjustments
that the order would be made. Your
organi.at.ion used the water required
to make the soup, coffee, etc., to
feed hundreds of mm dai!" during the
striko without making f plication for
same, and so by rofcs:u5 Lo pay for
pnine, n!-.ccs itsalf in the position of
having'stolen this watar.
Service But No Pav
"During fhe strike, we continued to
eive unintprruntpd sVrviee ,1n Rnito
fh w l,iVJ?Pi
of the fact that our revenue from do-
mestic consumers during the months
of October. November and Decern-
ber amounted to approximately three
cents per thousand gallons of water j
delivered. As our plant is the only
one in Arizona pumping against a to
tal head of 1700 feet, through five
miles of pine line, the cost of pump
ing this water was a great many
times three cents per thousand gal-
Ions.
"Some of the consumers paid water
1 ., 1 .. ...; 1, t-.. J T . v.
iC6. j """"5 i ""V
ers have paid up all back water rent
since. By what line of reasoning do
you determine that we would be do-
ing justice to consumers who have j
paid up all their indebtedness for
nil PTniir m
UIL ainilL 111
1 FRANKLIN WELL
' While Drilling for Water in the State
j Well Near Franklin,. What Promises
to be a Flow of Oil is Struck ,
The report the first of the
that oil had been struck
Franklin in the experimental
week
near
state
well where drilling for water has been
in progress; has caused widespread
excitement in this section of Greenlee
county. What was discovered to be
indications of oil' was noticed last
past engineers have been drilling for
water in this state well, the experi
ment being made possible through the
efforts of John Christy, . representa
tive from Greenlee county, in secur
ing an appropriation of $8,000 for the
purpose in the ihopes that artesian
water would be located in that vicin
ity.
According to the engineer in charge
of the drilling, prospects of a large
quantity of oil are very bright, and
should a flow be struck in commercial
quantity the result would.be of in
estimable value to this part of the
district. The three big mining com-
panies in the
Clifton-Morenci dis-
a new and lucrative industry will be
borne.
HAVE OPTION ON
MORENCI CLAIMS
ana maKing or une oiu lanuuiam an up
to-date business section
If the rumor'be true and the con
templated changes take place, this
will mark the passing of one of the
most famous and widely known tonws
of the typical west. For years humor
and traeedv have had their innings
al the narrow street wnere the
, briggt Ughtg were never dImmecl,
gambling was in full sway in the old
; days, political intrigue has at times
been a dominant figure, and the old
town has gone through vicissitudes
and COme up smiling such as would
make less, determined and optimistic
residents give up in despair. Through
a conflagration that totally destroyed
every building a few years ago, a new
j town was erected, composed of more
sub'tannjil and finer structures and
,the town advanced in various ways
j un'-1!' today it is a thriving community
'tnd doing a goodly share of the busi-
nets of that section. With the ac-
'qui!tioa of the property by the capi-
tnlits the changes necessitated will
no doubt efface the present structures
X al VT'Lr
! timers will be but a memory.
! ls f Tlt?- MUn?on
Mme- Mil1 nad Smeltermen s Union
"No. 2 will erect a large building at
' , ... ... .
I that Place T LI S
esaal7 l"frters for thelr offices
;mRlinS place.
i
j water used, if we were to charge-off
; the indebtedness of members of your
! organization for water used during the
j strike, as is virtually the object of
I your action?
"As we aim to treat all of our,con
I sumers with fairness, to us, such dis
crimination would seem decidedly un-
fair, and we would not take such an
' u . ordered to do so by the
?iu?ss oraerea to ao so Dy tne
, commission.
W.
t,. DuMOULIN,
"Superintendent .
VILLA DASHING AHEAD OF HIS MEN
iiaraudmg bandits
BANK RESOURCES OF
US, S. SHOW
IS
I
I WASHINGTON, April 12. Finan
cial prosperity and strength is greater
iin the United States today than ever
'before and is raising rapidly to new
levels, according to the interpretation
placed by the comptroller of the
currency on figures made public to
day showing conditions on, March 7,
the date of the last bank call, in the
country's national banks. Here is
what the returns show:
Total resources of national banks
$13,838,000,000 an increase of $2,271,
000,000 or twenty per cent within a
year.
Total deposit $10,790,000,000, an
.increase of "$2,108,000,000 or nearly
:- . -
Itwenty-five per cent within a year, jof Bisbee Elks and the generous cor
and an increase of $411,000,000 since diality of Bisbee and the entire War-
' December 31st last." An increase of
$990,000,000 in loans and discounts
iwithin a. year. Surplus and individu
ial profits of $1,031,278,000, an increase
i of $18,000,000. The increase in re
sources within the past twelve mon-
ths alone, Comptroller Williams
pointed out in a statement tonight," ex-
ceeds the entire resources of the
Reichs bank of Germany; and the
aggregate resources of American na-
tional banks, exceed by $3,000,000,000
the aggregate resources of the Bank of
England, the Bank of France, the
Eank of Russia, the Reichs bank of
Germany, the Netherlands, the Swiss
National Bank and the Bank of Jap
an. 3
As recently as 1896, the statement
says, the entire amount on deposit
in national hanks within tho TTnitfid
'
States was less than the increase in
deposits within the past twelve mon
ths. Total reserves held by national
banks March 7, were $2,227,000,000.
This is $99,000,000 more than the law
requires and is more than $100,000,
000 in excess of the greatest surplus
reserve ever held before.
"It is conservatively estimated,"
reads the comptroller's statement,
"that the surplus reserve now held
by the national banks would be suffi
cient to give a further loaning power
of $3,000,000,000 to 4,000,000,000
should the growth and development of
commerce, agriculture or industry
call for such an enlragement of credit.
"Notwithstanding the Anglo-French
loan of $500,000,000 and the loans to
other foreign powers, amounting to
several hundred million dollars addi
tional, which our banks to a greater
or less degree have participated, there
are no indications of unsound infla
tion or excessive loans, and the na
tional banks of the country have
never been in a stronger position
than they are at this time."
If f J '
seen in a characteristic post
GALA FESTIVAL ENDS
IEET1NG OF
ELKS
Visit to
Shattuck Crystal Cave is
Most
Unique . Form of Entertain-
ment Ever Offered and Many Make
the Trip.
Bisbee, April 10. Characteristic
of the widely recognized hospitality of
Bisbee Elkdom, was the closing day
of the State Reunion. Bisbee Lodge
No. 671, proved capable of entertain
ing on an even more extensive scale
than had been anticipated, although
all had appreciated that they were to
witness a ' day overshadowing any
thing before attempted in Arizona Elk
dom. Last night al the visitors talk
ed of but one thing, the hospitality
ren district.
Of course, the big feature was the
reception in the Crystal Cave. But
tle whole day was a gala occasion
and the entire Warren district was
gay with the colors of Elkdom and
'cheery with the sincere cheer which
i cannot fail to prevail wherever the
; spirit of true Elkdom is predominant.
j The dance at Vista Park, Warren,
jwas the final triumph of three days
I of brilliant success Hundreds of
: young people were at the park and
from seventy-five to a hundred cou
ples were dancing throughout the
evening Conditions were sufficiently
summer-like to insure the comfort
of all the dancers and the music by
the Copper Queen Band, naturally ,was
r ii i.4nt..nA 1
01 ulc uiuci.
The Cave Celebration
Prbably no lodge in America hsa
ever entertained its guests in such a
novel manner as that adopted by the
Bisbee Elks yesterday-when ihey ex
tended the true hospitality of Elkdom
amid the beautiful natural wonders of
the Shattuck Crystal Cave. The
statement that the reception to Elks
and their ladies and guests was unique,
in the 'history of Elkdom does not
savor of exaggeration.
While the exact number enjoying
the exceptional opportunity of view
ing one of the natural wonders of
America cannot be given, it may fair
ly be said that, certainly, more than
1000 members of Elkdom and their
guests asembled in the wonderful
Shattuck Cave Automobiles from all
parts of the dihtrict were pressed into
service, all local Elks contributing
services of machines and driver and
many visiting brothers donating the
use of their cars. Indeed, in several
instances cars had been shipped here
for the sole purpose of transporting
members and guests on this occasion.
Much more like a scene in some
Fairyland of fiction than a reality of
nature was the effect f the crystal
OPENING OF BASE
BALL SEASON
After, a. year or two of quietude In
baseball circles in Clifton the nation
al sport is once more about to. aain
come into its own. In past years
this district has boasted ot the best
auateur teams to be found anywhere j
in the country and has numbered
among its ranks men who are now
identified with the major leagues of
tc -.-f-iintry. But for the pasi year
or two possibly interest in
the
game has been on the wane and it has
been a hard matter to get tjie old
'lends, liued up right for a season of
uri pa igning. However, tho Ameri
can sport seems to have taken a new
laase or: life in the past few weeks
and as there are several of the old
'guard left who can (handle a ball and
jbat to good advantage, the baseball
r
uug la uuoy umucuitLiiug . iuv uumer-
tiiS iaas wim us germs. ,
' As, a consequence of the activity
manifested among the old players a
game has been arranged for between
Cliton jud Metcalf for Sunday after
noon at the ball park. This game
jwill mtfely be a workout of new ma
terial irom which a regular nins will
be formed. By this is. not meant
that the game will lack pep and
j ginger for with such old timers as
I P. Riley at the initial sack and the
: Grimes brothers, Bennie, Clifford and
lAzarte', who need no introduction to
the fans, the game will be a reminder
of old t'mes when Clifton stood at the
head of the list. The initial game will
not be a haphazard affair as all the
boys Will do their best in order to
make the regular team and those who ;
ora frvtiiTi n f a on mi crVi r o ttnn t r o i
sured of a good classy game. .
Among some 'of the new material
who will secure a try-out are Wye,
Foster and McGuire. These boys, al
though new to this section, come with
the reputation of having fought many Jhad been more or less in her company,
-'a hard battle with classy nines in 'and it was the fact of their, relations
different parts of the country and ..that angered the husband and prompt
,when their worth is proven and they jed him to attempt the life of Wheeler.
are added to the aggregation of old That the attempt upon .the 'life of
timers, Clifton is sure to take her . Wheeler was not fatal is a miracle
place once more at the head of the and possibly had Jones not been
baseball game in Arizona. - laboring under great excitement his
j An organization has not yet been aim might have been true and a
perfected but a meeting has been .tragedy been the result. The condi
j called for some time next week at i tion of Wheeler at this time is re
j wihich time officers will be elected and ; ported to be improving and his re
a permanent organization will be icovery is expected,
'effected.' The game on Sunday is I
merely a preliminary try-out and af- i "
public will be assured of a season of
'good ball
The public is coxllally welcome at
the game Sunday and" as the admis -
... .. . , . .
3iuu its lice it, ia CAiavuni liicli. . a
large number of fans will take ad
vantage of the opportunity and turn
out in force to see for themselves
the material of which the coming
champions is made.
white cave, illuminated in the most
impressive manner of modern electri
city. Happy guests thronging every
recess of the cave and the uniformed
musicians contributed to an effect sel
dom realized in actual life. Copper
Queen musicians furnished the best
of the new musical numbers and there
was a wierd element in the echoing
of the music through the subterranean
passages
L. C. Shattuck and Joe Walker
were truly hospitable hosts to the
thousand visitors and they overlook
ed no detail which might Jiave added
to the happiness of their guests. Mrs.
La More supervised the activities at
tendant upon serving the bountiful
lunch to the visitors, whose strenuous
explorations had produced hearty ap-
petites.
Many ' couples joined in the dance,
both before and after lunch, and all
the dancers will long remember the
occasion as the most wonderful ex-
perience of their lives
BAPTISTS IN ANNUAL
MEETING AT
GLENDALE
Convention Hears
ports of Much
. Encouraging Re-
Progress; Hopeful
Tone Pervades;
Fine Address.
Dr.
Brougher's
Glendale, April 10. The twenty
fourth annual session of the Arizona
Baptists convention was called to or
der by President R. L. Sprole of
Tucson The first order of the
morning was the reading of letters of
churches. A hopeful tone pervaded
the letters. Much evangelistic work
has been done. .
' Considerable money has been spent
on . chucrh edifices. New meeting
SHOOTING AFFRAY
NORTH
CLIFTON
Domestic Trouble Cause of Difficul
ty. Wheeler in Hospital Serious
ly Injured
About nine o'clock this evening a
shooting occurred in North Clifton as
a result of which a man by the name
of Wheeler is lying in the A. C. hos
pital in a serious condition and R. D.
Jones is a prisoner in the county jail.
It is understood that for some time
Wheeler had been paying attentions to
Mrs. Jones and that her husband
had repeatedly warned him away and
finally came out with open .threats
against Wheeler, saying that 'if hia
attentions did not cease he would
shoot him. Jones is employed by the
Shannon Copper company ' in the
concentrating department and after
returning home from shift this even
ing he hid under his home m North
Clifton and waited for his wife to re
turn. Wheeler and Mrs. Jones had
attended a picture show and upon
their arrival at the Jones residence
the irate husband crawled from his
hiding place and shotWheeler through
the arm with a .45 calibre six-shooter,
the bullet taking a downward course
and penetrating the stomach. Wheeler
was taken to the hospital for treat
ment and it is understood that his
chances for recovery are good. Jones
was taken into custody and is now
confined in the county jail awaiting
I the outcome of his marksmanship.
Mrs. Jones has been - in Clifton
about three weeks, coming here from
Texas, her former home. Wheeler,
who was in the employ of Christy and
Niccolls on their claims above Clif
ton, was apparently smitten with
Mrs. Jones and since her arrival here
mouses nave Deen Duut in uienaaie
and Mara? a new hnma hAA hMii
built for missionaries on the "Second
Mesa" among the Hopi Indians. Bap
i tists have now iin Arizona forty-four
: churches and about 2,500 members.
Dr. J. Whitcomb Brougher of Los
Angeles delivered his third . address
on the theme of "The Church with a
Hobble Skirt," The church is hob
bled by narrowness of vision, by nar
rowness of money, by lack of prayer,
by lack of trained and consecrated
workers, by lack of harmony. A large
congregation listened to the practi
cal address with breathless . interest.
The afternoon session beginning at
two e'e'ock was devoted to Arizona
missions Dr. L. H. Thayer of 1'hoe
nlv read 'the financial statement. To
tal receipts were shown to be Sl ,
755.34. Total disbursements were
$14,020.74. The deficit was shown to
be $265.40. Secretary T; F. M'Court
ney presented the report of the board
of managers .
Though there have been great dif-
ficulties during the past
year there
has been remarkable progress in some
fields. Thirty missionaries have been
employed They work among Ameri
cans, Mexicans, Indians and Chinese.
City missionary work is being done
in some cities. "
Hereafter, the state convention will
be held in January and the convention
i will close its financial year Decem-
' ber 31.
Dr. Brougher delivered his fourth
address on "The Mission and the
Methods of the Church."
I "To find out the mission of the
fhurch we must see what Christ did."
jHe said, "Negatively, Christ did not
come to condemn the world, . to
jcall the righteous, to be ministered
unto. Christ came to preach the gos
;pel of salvation to the poor, the af
j flicted, the sorrowing; to seek and to
j save the lost, to destroy the works
:of the devil."
) This was a notable discourse. It
! gripped the large audience,
j Last evening. Rev. C. A. Woody,
' D D. of Portland, delivered an ad-
! dress on some elements of convention
j efficiency,
' The an
annual sermon was preached
by Rev. R. L. Sproles of Tucson on
"Our Missionary Opportunity." The
large attendance continues. The en
tertainment by the local church is of
the best sort.
Divorce Suit
J. L. Spaw, of Duncan, has enter
ed divorce suit against his wife, L.
M. Spaw, a resident of Clifton, al
leging desertion. . The couple were
married in Clifton in 1907.
