tee. owosso Times
PAGES 1 TO 8
OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO. MICHIGAN. APRIL 14. 1916.
NO. 3
r
O. E. S. Officers Elected
At. the meeting of Abigail Chapter
No. 206 O. K. S. Tuesday evening,
the following officers were elected:
' Worthy Matron Mrs. Augusta
Spless.
- Worthy Patron J. N. Zimmerman
Associate Matron Mrs. Bessie
Wright.
Secretary Mrs. Mary Watson.
Treasurer Mrs. Mary Deckert.
Conductress Mrs. Florence Evans
Associate Conductress Miss Ma
ble Zimmerman.
Alternates to Grand Chapter
Mrs. Pearl Boylan, Mrs. Mary Deck
ert, and II. B. Sturtevant.
Galilean Class Entertains.
The Galilean class of men of the
First M. E. church entertained over
one hundred ladies of the church at a
luncheon srved in the church parlors
Monday evening. Rhodes orchestra fur
nished music.
After the business meeting an hour
was spent in discussing questions that
will come up af the M. E conference in
Saratoga, N. Y. One of the most im
portant is the proposed consolidation of
the various branches of Methodism.
W. J. Blood of Owosso, will represent
the M. E. churches of the Flint district
at the Saratoga conference.
i m t m
Heavy Fines.
Wallace Knight and Robert Lowery
pleaded guilty to violation of the Pray
law when arraigned before Judge Miner
Saturday, and each was sentenced to
pay a fine of $125, with $15 costs, and
placed on probation for a term of six
months.
The two men were arrested recently
at the Occidental hotel in Owosso after
returning with two women and a quan
tity of liquor from Oakley. Knight
and one of the women were charged
by the husband of the latter with a
statutory offense - but were released
when the husband withdrew the charge.
Then Knight was re arrested on a
charge of storing liquor In a room at
the hotel other than his own. Lowery
had previously been arraigned in justice
court on the same charge. -
Church of Christ Brotherhood
vsrKanizcu.
Fifty men met in the parlors of the
Church of Christ, Monday eyening, and
organized the Church of Christ Broth
erhood. Interesting talks were given
by Rev. J. Frank Green and the vsuper
intendent, Victor Hollls, and represen
tatives from all the men's and boys'
classes. The address of the evening
was given by Mr. Brown of Ohio.
Rev. Brown came upon the program as
a surprise and treat to all present.
Officers were elected as follows:
President Walter Cope.
Vice President Guy Llllie.
Secretary Theodore Streicher.
Treasurer T. B. Turnbull.
After a pleasant social hour the men
were inylted to the dining room where
the officers of the men's class served ice
cream.
Woman's Club.
The woman's club devoted but a little
time to current events at the April 6th
meeting when the program was placed
In the hands of Mrs. Niles Wiggins who
gave a very instructive &lk on the
most important feature of modern in
dustry. Among the many important
industries the automobile neems to
claim the most importance at the pres
ent time, in its relations to all lines of
buMness for quick service in cities and
rural districts. A very able paper writ
ten by Mrs. Kilpatrick of Ann Arbor,
who could not be present, was read by
Mrs. W. C. Cadwallader, on the Lin
coln Highway, which when finished,
will extend across the U. 8. from west
to east. An entertaining discussion fol
lowed, led by ladies who had been over
a part of the finished road in the west.
The program closed with a fine piano
solo by Miss Rhea Buckley. '
Rev. E. W. Foster Resigns.
Rev. Elmer W Foster pastor of the
Corunna avenne Methodist church and
the Kelly M. E. church north of Cor
unna for the past year and a half, re
signed his pastorate April 0 and will
deyote his time for an indefinite period
to the cire of his wife who has suffered
a nervous break down as the rebuilt of
devoted and untiring work it the
church for years. Her physician rec
ommended a complete change and a
release from all responsibility. She has
gone to Detroit and will be with her
daughter there for a time.
Rev. .Foster's resignation Is deeply
regretted by the members of the church
and friends In all parts of the city. His
work here was highly successful. The
1 1 I l JV.1-.I I 1
cnurcu um ueau uuuuicu iu luruiuer
ship, over one hundred conversions
were made during the past year ani
the church building has been remod
eled and improved.
County Canvass.
Corunna, April 11. Arthur Hanchett
of Hazelton township, was chosen Toes
day morning to succeed Randolph
Bailey as a member of the county board
of election canvassers. Mr. Bal ey was
elected supervisor from Hazelton a
week ago The two remaining members
of the board chose Mr. Hanchett. Hugh
Parker was elected chairman of the
board."
Following is the result of the offi
cial canvass, as completed by the
county board of canvassers Tuesday:
Presidential primary Republican :
Henry Ford, 885; William G. Simp
son, 141;' William Aldcn Smith, 1,114;
majority for Smith, 221). Scattering
votes for Elihu Root, Clayton Thom-
ns, J. II. Collins, Justice Hughes, J.
W. Fordney and Joseph Cannon;
Theodore Roosevelt, 10, and Woodrow
Wilson, 3.
Presidential primary Democrat:
Woodrow .Wilson, 927; W. J. Bryan,
2; Eugene Debs, Henry Ford, Champ
Clark, each one.
Progressive : Theodore Roosevelt,
12; scattering, G. D. Pope, William II.
Toft, Henry Ford.
Socialist: Allen F. Benson, 4; Debs,
4; J. D. Leland, of Corunna, E. Seidel,
each one.
' Prohibition: William P. F. Fergu
son, 91 ; George Kern, Ben Revenaugh
and William Brubacker, each one.
National committeeman Republi
can: Charles B. Wrarren, 1909; Clay
ton Thomas, E. O. Wood, J. W. Ford
ney and Henry Ford, each one.
Democrat: W. A. Comstock, 221;
Edwin 0. Wood, 717; Wood's major
ity, 496. . .
Progressive: G. D. Pope, 17; scat
tering, Taft, Roosevelt and Hiram
Johnson. The enthusiasts for their
leaders caused the voters for the last
three to overlook the fact that none is
eligible to be a national committee
man for Michigan, since all of the
trio live elsewhere.
There were seven Socialist votes
cast for national committeeman, and
10 Prohibitionist.
WST MICH. PLANS
FOR GREATER FAIR.
Will Break Record in Agriculture and
Live Stock Exhibits Big
Premium List
Grand Rapids, April 10. With prac
tically one-half of the entire available
space in, the Live Stock, Agricultural
and Horticultural departments ar
ranged for at this early date, West
Michigan Fair officials are contemplat
ing extensive improvements to take
care of exhibitors this fall.
While many of the larger farmers,
breeders and organizations in the state
will make extensive exhibits, individ
ual showing by farmers will be a fea
ture of the fair which will be held Sep
tember 18-22.
County Exhibits, Boys' and Girls'
Clubs, Grange, Gleaners and Farmers'
Clubs, from all over Michigan will be
in evidence, the result of the unusual
large and attractiye premium list.
Special classes for small exhibitors are
helping to create wide spread interest
among individual growers and breeders.
Secretary Lyman A. Lilly announces
that the liberal policy of the fair man
agement is attracting exhibitors from
all parts of the state. A post card re
quest will bring the new 200 page prem
ium book to those interested.
- Circuit Court Jury.
The following jury was drawn Satur
day to serve during the May term of the
circuit court:
Venice Arthur Shoch. Hiram Stew
art. Vernon James O. Marks, C. E. Ock
erman. Woodhull Edward Dunn, Edward
Farrigan.
Antrim Eugene Hodge, Lewis Hall.
Bennington John Clark. '
Burns Floyd Rohrabacher.
Caledonia N. W. Newell.
Corunna
First ward Thos. Duffey.
Second ward Bert Rose.
Third ward August Powersmith.
Fairfield James Purves.
Hazelton A. F. Alderman.
Middlebury George F. Warren.
New Haven Robert Richardson.
Owosso township Fred Ott.
Owosso City '
First ward Fred M. Crowe.
Second ward George Gllmore.
Third ward Fred II Menshardt.
Fourth ward Clarenco Baker.
Fifth ward William Vanderbeck.
Perry A. G. Watkine.
Rush Fred Downey.
Shlawa9see Frank P. Lewis.
Sclota Ray Chant.
ELEGANT NEW BANKING QUARTERS.
Citizens' Savings Bank Announces
Opening for Saturday Ono of tho
Most Complete and Well Arranged
Banks in Central Michigan Credit
to the City and Bank Management.
The splendid new home of the Citi
zens' Savings Bank is to be formally
opened on Saturday with an all-day
reception to the people, of Shiawassee
county and the invitation to inspect the
same is genera and most hearty. For
more than a year past the officers of the
bank have been looking forward to the
event of tomorrow and it is their hope
that all the people will find time be
tween the houes of 8:30 a. in. and 9:30
p. m. to drop in to look over the result
of a year of hard work and not a little
anxiety. The rebuilding and enlarging
of the banking quarters had long been
planned for and every detail well looked
after, yet as the work . progressed new
problems constantly arose which de
manded consideration so that no mis
takes would AW the beauty and utility
of the Interior. That the quarters are
about as near perfect as possible will
undoubtedly be the unanimous -decision
of those who accept the invitation to
call on Saturday at least It is of those
who have been privileged to look the
same over during the past few days..
Every possible convenience for patrons
and employees of the Institution, for
easy in handling the large volume of
business which is done dally, and
every safe guard for safety and protec
tion la provided. The rich mahogany
and beautiful marble finish, as fine as
that in any bank in the state, the ar
rangement of the several departments
of the bank, the officers rooms, the
money and safety deposit vaults, the
lighting arrangements, the rich new
furnishings all go to make ideal bank
ing quarters.
A. E. FERRY HONORED.
Appointed Custodian of War Museum
in State Capitol Will Prove
Ideal Official.
The selection of A. E. Ferry of this
city, by the State Board of Auditors
as custodian of the war museum in the
state building at Lansing reflects credit
on the Board and pleases the many
friends of Mr. Ferry in this city and
Corunna, who esteemed It a pleasure
to give him hearty endorsement for the
position. The suggestion came origi
nally from Senator Charles W. Foster j
of Lansing, and he was energetically
active in behalf of Mr. Ferry. Being
a veteran of the civil war. and a man of
wide intelligence, it is doubtful if a
better man could have been found for
the place.
The one regret of Owosso people is
that it may mean the ultimate removal
of Mr. Ferry and family to Lansing.
Mr. and Mrs. Ferry, and daughter,
Miss Mabel, have been active in many
useful lines in the city, particularly
musical and religions, and all will be
missed if they decide to leave Owosso,
Elks Appointments Made.
Exalted Ruler Albert L. Densmore
announced at Tuesday
evenlng's
meeting of Owosso Lodge No. 753,
B. P. O. Elks, the following appoint-
ments:
Chaplain Hugh M. Nichols.
Esquire Paul V. Gadola.
Entertainment Committee A. L.
Nichols, P. E. R., G. C. Reineke, P.
E. R., and L. C. Hall.
House Committee John J. Mc-
Donald, L. A. Sanderhoff, P. E. R.,'
E. H. Stanard, P. E. R., secretary.
Auditing Committee Charles El
lis, P. E. R., A. H. Dumond, and J. A.
Byerly. . ' ' j
The first initiation by the new ofTl-
cers will be Tuesday evening, May 2,'sisted were given handpainted plates,' A series of gripping messages on
when there will be a class of four or gifts from the bride. Little Miss "Great Scenes in the Last Days of
five. A banquet will also be served, j Wesch was given a pretty signet ring Jesus."
. The bride, who was born in Rac-; Monday "The Authority of Jes
The Jericho Traveler, published week-ilne Wis.. has made her home in this us Then and now." :
ly at Cleveland, Ohio, in the interest of city practically all of her life. Since' Tuesday "JesMs in the Temple
the Odd Fellows of that state, published 'graduating from the local schools A Look at Life from Within."
In the April 1st issue quite a complete with the class of 1910 she has been Wednesday "Jesus' Farewell to
account of the recent gathering at Cba-J a member of the Press-American Israel The Bethany Silence and the
grin Falls to commemorate the fiftieth force as circulation manager and Still Small Voice."
anniversary of the initiation of three 1 proof reader, being a valuable and Thursday "The Legacy of Jesus
members into the lodge. It says lodge ! efficlent emP!ye. She is a musician Himself to You."
held the most Interesting meeting of of considerable ability and has rend- Friday-'The Voices That Prevail
the past few years; it was called a ' "ed 'althtul er7,co as ed-" , ...
"golden jubilee" since it was In honor 'h Co.roUnna Ave"ue ch?rch' of . Q Brlf lnt 1
f 4 , . . i which she is a popular member. I Sacred Cantata, 'The Crucifixion,
of the men who were initiated into ( Mr Wlleg of Toronlo 0nt( hag by stalner, rendered by choir and so
Odd Fellowship in this lodge fifty years manv friends here, havinir made fre- loists. . ..
ago and are still living," One of three
was John Brooks, Adams street, this
city, who joined the order March, 20, '
18GG. The membership of the lodge
together with a number of visitors Outta Percha & Rubber Co., Limited, story of views from the Oberammer
rnadethe occasion a memorable one; a! M anc' Mrs- Wiles left Tuesday gau Passion play. and-Other sources,
fine banquet was enjoyed, followed by'rfternoon on a tr,P to Chicago, 111., Easter Sunday services: 10 a. m.
addresses from a number of those prea-
ent, Mr. Brooks finishing the program
... , ... 7 . t
of the eyening with a talk illustrated
by many views of interest to the order.
Wilson Brooks of this city, wa among
the visitor. Both Mr. and Mrs. Brooks
thoroughly enjoyed the nisit to their
old home
REPUBLICANJBANQUET.
Committees Appointed and Speakers
Invited-Pacesfor800.
The 1916 banquet of the Shiawassee j
County Republican Club as briefly an-
4 . . . . , . . lU
nounced last week is to be held In the
.... ,. i
evening, April 23. That It will equal
in interest any of the previous banquets
is beyond question.' while the attend
ance should greatly exceed all past
records as the people of the county will
wish to take part in the first event of
the kind to be given in the magnificent
new building. The tickets as hereto
fore will be $1 CO and the capacity of
the hall will give opportunity for about
800 to be comfortablo seated at the
tables. President Pulver anil Secretary
Cole have completed arrangements and
have selected the several committees
to handle the details of tho banquet,
which will be sarved by the Social
Union of the Congregational church.
It is impossible to give the list of
speakers at this time but Invitations
haye been extended to Senators Smith
and Towneend, Congressman Fordney,
Senator T. E. Burton of Ohio, a presi
dential possibility, Hon. James E. Wat
son of Indiana, Republican nominee
for U. S. Senator. The several aspirants
for the Republican nomination for gov
ernor will be invited to attend to meet
those present.
The list of committees is as follows:
Reception Hon. S. S. Miner, Hon.
W. A. Rosenkrans, A. D. Whipple,
Dr. F. S. Ruggles, B. E. Smith, James
Osburn, J. E. Ellis.
Speakers O. L. Sprague, F. J.
Northway, Leon F. Miner, C. E.
Rigley, Jr., J. II. Robbins.
Banquet W. E. Hall, M. F. Blair,
Fred Welch, L. A. Sanderhoff, P. V.
Gadola, William Farrell.
Invitation and Program Nell R.
Walsh, Geo. M. Dewey, R. R. Mat
thews, Chris Rentschler, Ira G. Curry
Sale of Tickets E. O. Dewey, A.
B. Freeman, W. D. Whitehead, H. P.
Halstead, George Zintel, C. O. Rob
inson, L. Scribner, Elmer Hibbard,
E. R. Vincent, O. F. Harryman, L. G.
Cudney, Chas. Godfrey, C. A. Croel,
, Chai9 - yy- Gassman, J. W. BIttel, v.
R. Dean, V. W. Leeman, Frank
Barnes,. H. L. Austin, E. E. Derham.
Mu3ic George C. Reineke, G. F.
Frlegel, Dr. C. E. Porter, Harry :
Parker, Dr. J. O. Parker. I
Arrangement and Decoration oi
Hall A. L. Nichols, E. B. Schults.
E. S. Wolaver, E. E. Schram, Edward
Washburn.
Ushers Earl Hall, John Ray,
Fred Goeckel, Ollle Shack, George
Cramer.
Ashton Wiles.
Pretty in its simplicity and daintl-
ness was. the wedding Tuesday oi
Miss Clara Maude Ashton of this city
and Harry E. Wiles of Toronto, Ont.
The ceremony, solemnized at high
noon by Rev. E. W. Foster took
place in the living room at the home
of the bride's parents, Mr. and Mrs.
James Ashton, 628 Glenwood avenue,
before a bower of greenery. The!Hpr narticularlv the orean recital,
palms and foliage intermixed with
delicate shades of yellow roses bank
ed from floor to ceiling harmonized
' prettily with a back ground of white
lattice work.
Miss Mabel Ashton, sister of the
bride in a pretty gown of flowered or-
gandy over pink silk acted as brides-J
mald and Herbert Ashton, the bride's'
brother was best man. I
Following the ceremony the guests
who were limited to only immediate
relatives and a few Intimate friends'
I were Invited to partake of a delici-
ous three-course wedding luncheon,' Ave. M E. church, Bay City. Ser
served by Misses Monna Gristock,' mon by Dr. Mattson on "Coming to a
Edith Cudney and Era Alderton. The Decision."
above named , young ladles who as- Monday to Friday night at 7:30
quent visits to this city. He possesses The stereopticon will be used at
a pleasing manner and sterling char- each service except Friday, for an in
p.cter. For the past eight years he troductory group of about a dozen
haa been traveling salesman for the
i nn1 wm R,so V131t m onuac ana ue"
1 rolf1' n"ef wh,h thcy wIU Kt 1to.lT-
ronto, Ont., whero congratulations
p?id best wishes of miny friends for
future hapiness will follow them.
, Among tho guests were Miss Coral
Porry'of Lansing; Mrs. Harry Dun-
nln of Flint nnd Herbert Ashton of
Dctrc'.t.
PETITION FOR PARK VOTE
Hundreds of VcTTrTAsk Re submit-
.ion of Question -Question
Not Understood Prevlous'y.
.... ...
Again the question of the purchase
. , . ..
of all the vacaut land surrounding the
new armory from the C. M. Miller
residence on the north to the old brew
ery property on the south and west of
Water street to the river in certain to
be presented to the electors of the cltv
women owning property in their own
nama or jointly, as well as all men
who are citizens of legal age for a
decision. The tract includes about
three and a half acres' and when prop
erly graded, seeded and ornamented
with tre?s and shrubbery will inaku a
beautiful park right in the heart of the
city as well a9 a splendid setting for
the magnificent new armory conceded
by all military officials of the State to
be the best one company building in
Michigan and quite the equal of any
armory within the borders of the State
as it is not excelled in its appoint
ments. The failure of the praposition
to bond for $6,500 at the spring election
for the purchase of the land and was the
one surprise of the day for there was
apparently little known opposition.
The reaction came as might be expected
iu a cull for another chance to vote the
bonds, and to that end petitions asking
the Commission to order a special elec
tion in accordance with the provisions
of the city charter have been circulated
during the past three days and more
than five hnndred of the six hundred
names required have been secured and
it is the opinion that many more than
a sufficient numter of signatures will
appear on the petitions when presented
to the Commission at the next meeting.
So far only male citizens have been
asked to sign and if the women tax
payers decided to join in the request
for the election and many have sug
gested that they wished to several
hundred additional petitioners will be
added. The Commissioners have signl
ged a willingness to comply with the
charter and so there can no longer be
any doubt but that at an early date we
shall once more haye the opportunity
to state by our votes whether we wish
to secure tne only available piece of
property near the business center of the
Htv for a park, to belong to the pro-
gressive list of cities of Michigan which
are looking ahead and caring for park
possibilities or whether we shall neg
lect our opportunity and fall into the
class of "don't care far the future"
citizen.
Special Holy Week Services
The First Congregational church
hag prepared a program of unusual
Interest for the observance of Holy
week, April 16-23, beginning with
Palm Sunday and closing with the
Easter communion. The series will
Include eight sermons and addresses
by the pastor, Rev. Bernard Gause
Mattson, D. D. The special musical
features will be of a very high or
the afternoon of Palm Sunday by Mr.
Earl McGee of Bay City and the ren-
dltlon of Stalner's sacred cantata,
.Tne Crucifixion," on Good Friday
night by a large choir and soloists
under the direction of R. N. Gibson
together with special organ numbers
by Miss Jessie Gemmell.
The following is the full program
April 16 Palm Sunday services
10:00 a. m. Sermon on "Exalting the
Kingship of Jesus."
3:30 p. m. Vesper Organ Recital
Mr. Earl McGee, organist of Madison
views ' presenting a serial picture
seon n "? equei
! ?? V cspCr Cmnlon serv
with tho sacrament of baptism of
service
in-
fr.nts and adults and the reception of
a large class to church membership.
Special Easter music at both ser
vices. Tho evening services will bo
suspended for both Talm Sunday and
Easter.
mm
s3
Absolutelytae
Made from
Gream of Tartar
Derived from Grapes
Board of Supervisors.
The regular annual session of the
Board of Supervisors of Shiawassee
county began Tuesday by the unani
mous elt&lon of Milton F. Growe of
Owosso as chairman, the full board
being present.
Chairman Growe appointed com
mittees as follows:
Abstracts Scribner, Curtis, Taphouse.
Apportlonmen t Thomas, Piatt,.
Chase.
Auditing Bliss, Bailey, Allan.
Claims and Accounts Taphouse,
Dewey, Doan.
Claims and Accounts in Contagious
Diseases Piatt, Scribner, Thomas
Clerk's Certificates Clark, Kings
bury, McMullen.
Drains and Ditches Doan, Corey,
Colby.
Equalization Kebler, Godfrey, Mc
Mullen, Clark, Bailey, Colby, Vincent.
.Finance Godfrey, Braden, Taphouse.
Furniture Perry, Chase, Thomas.
Indigent Soldiers Perry, Bliss, -Braden.
Justices', Constables' and Coroners1
Claims and Accounts Curtis, Kings
bury, Godfrey.
Officers' Salaries Harryman, Dur
ham. Clark.
Printing Vincent, Chase, Scribner.
Public Buildings and Grounds
Dewey, Allan, Kebler.
Records in Clerk's Office Allan,
Kebler, Clark.
Records iu Register's Office Dur
ham, Thomas, Dewey.
Rejected Taxes Colby, Bliss, Harry
man. Road and Bridges Chase, Harryman,
Piatt.
Rolls Corey, Bailey, Vincent.
Rules Bailey, Dewey, Taphouse.
Settlement with Treasurer Braden,
Perry, Durham.
Settlement with Supts. of Poor
McMullen, Curtis, Corey.
Sheriffs Office Kingsbury, Bliss,
Doan.
Live Stock Sanitary Agent C. S.
Baldwin made bis quarterly report
showing but little hog cholera during
the pat three months. He was
authorized to carry serum on bis trips
hereafter so as to be prepared to '
yaccinate Immediately when he found
it necessary or advisable, thus probably
saving many animals and practically
half the cost of work previously.
Dr. F. Watts, physician to the indi
gent poor of Owosso, made his quar
terly report, abowing three deaths of
persons in the last three months,
but not much sicknecs, no serious con
tagious ca-es.
The committees or. claims and accounts
of various kinds found a goodly number
of claims awaiting action and all were
allowed without contest, although over
charges in a number of cases were cut
out by the committees.
APPEAL TO CIRCUIT COURT
The case of Samuel Willis vs.
Homer Hode, both of Owosso, ha3
been appealed from the. municipal
court at Owosso to the circuit court.
According to the points brought out
in the lower court, where Frank Sut
h'n noted as attorney for Hodge and
incidentally for himself, Sutfin had an
account against Mr. Willis' firm, the
Owosso Ice & Fuel Company, several
years ao. Sutfin, who employs Hodjjc,
ordered worth of coal, but had it
delivered, through an arrangement
with Hodge, to his employe's home.
In attempting to pet its pay, the
company sued -Ilodgp, though Air. Sut
fin's contentions are that he, and not
1 lodge, should have been' sued, and
that besides, lie had an offset. Tho
municipal court jury did not tnke this
view of the case and gave Willis, a
verdict for the full amount, henco
the appeal.
Rural Carrier Chai. G. Cook spent
Wednesday at his farm, near Carland
