mi
It,
BRATTLEBORO, FRIDAti APRIL 14, 191G.
vol. lxxxiii.
NO. 15.
0
GIRL DIES OF BURNS
WILL ERECT BUILDING
Happy is the Mother
Who Has a Fine Baby
and a Good Carriage
to Push it in.
We believe that we
have secured the finest
carriages made and that
our offerings in this line
far surpass anything we
have ever shown in
Reed Carriages
Pullman Juniors
Pullman Chaise
Pullman Runabouts
Pullman Sleepers
Two-Wheel Gigs
Four-Wheol Sulkies
Folding Collapsible Carriages
English Hood Carriages
Gondolas
at Prices Ranging from $2.00 to $40.00
SPECIAL GOOD VALUES FROM $15.00 TO $20.00
Catalogue furnished on request
EMERSON & SON
Everything lor Housekeeping
BRATTLEBORO
ill '
in
Safety first, last, and all
the time that is our pol
icy. It should be your
policy too, when xt comes
to the transaction of fi
nancial matters. To this we add
I courtesy, promptness and secrecy. Let
us serve you and you will be well served.
FOB SALE.
FOR SALE Concord buggy In goorf
conumqn. Auuress "S IMioenlx Llllce.
lu-JG
FOR SALE Three 2-horse trucks, one
2-horse Ijox wagon. S. A. SMITH JIF'O.
CO. 15-1C
FOR SALE The Hotel at I'utnoy, Vt.
Partially furnished; might exchange.
12DQETT CO., Brattlcboro. 7-tf
FOR SALE Klvo passenger Studebu
ker. In good running condition. Inquire
or C. K (JOUlD, Williamsville, Vt. 1315
FOR SALE My 30 h.p. E. M. F. Studc
baker automobile. Tires all good, painted
and overhauled last winter. S. V. AB
IiOTT. 7-tf
FOR SALE Red Uurhiim bull calf, 3
weekH old. fiom good milker and cream
er. A. 1). HAQNAt.U Routo 5, Hrattle
boio, Vt. 1G-17
FOR SALE I'air matched drivers. 4
and C yeais. Sound In eery way. Bay.
Weight 1075. K V. CIIURCIIIIjI,, South
Londonderry, Vt. 11-17
Invest your money In First
Mortgages on Improved
farms in Oregon, Washing,
ton, Idaho and Montana, to
be secured through this
Company. It's safe, It's sure,
It's profitable. All property
mortgaged personally In
spected by an officer of this
Company. All payments of
Interest "nd principal made
through this olflce without
trouble or expense to the
holder. Offered In any de
nomination from $500 up.
Yoii
Would
Laugh
to see anyone trying to beat
dirt out of a carpet after it
had been cleaned with a
Feeny Vacuum Cleaner.
They simply couldn't do it.
A. M. CORSER
Vt. nd N. II. Aeent PUTNEY, VT.
FOR SALE St. ReRla Everbearing
spherry plant.". 0c per doz: 2 nor Uiu
iithbert $1.25 per 100. DEER IU'N
RllT KAitM, Putney. Vt. 15-17
FOR SALE Bav horse. 8 years old:
sound and a good dilver; also one new
image, express wagon and harness. G.
UU.NU, a LOCUSt St. TCI. 231-X. 15-tf
FOR SALE Small farm In Vernon.
known ns the Itny place. Vor particulars
limulro uf KAYKTTK STODDARD, Ver
non, or address S. L. BOND, Wilming
ton, vt. 13-21
125 HOLSTEINS
Registered cows in milk and
soon to calve, yearlings and
calves for
SALE AT AUCTION
APRIL 18, 19
at Bellows Falls, Vermont.
SEND FOR PRINTED LIST
Purebred Live Stock Sales Co.
Brattlcboro, Vt.
FOR SALE Bay mare, four years old
eiglis 1100, all sound, will work double
r single, afraid of nothing. EDUAR
DAVlfNl'ORT, West Chesterlleld, N. 1 1
Tel. 70-1. lb
FOR SALE Bav horse. 1200 lbs., six
years, sound nnd all rjghl; also 11)10 Ov
erland car In good condition will mako
light delivery truck. GEORGE B. WHIT
NEY, Townshend, V.t. i , : . . 15
FOR
illage
SALE Farms, Umbel- land mid.
roperty for sale ,in westqn
ams.ear TfiMv-ae'-ii, '.f.cAi
Dummerston at reason-
blo prices. J. a. MARTIN. Newfane"
Vt. 14-1G
village property
IxindyndS'rrj'. Jar
fano andVest
FOR SALE 100-ACRE FARM
AT GUILFORD CENTER, VERMONT
Ten-room house, carriage and wood
Shed. COW barn, hn.v hnm. nnnltrv hnnan
and grannry: never-falllnjr sunnlv oi
spring water running In house and barn
yard, 17 acres wood and timber: 20 acres
Held, 3a acre3 mowing and tillage: 28
acres pasture; lots of fruit, apples,
grapes and red raspberries; chance to
sugar ore. ror terms, etc., apply to
JOHN E. GALE, Guilford, Vt.
FOR SALE At auction 300 horses nt
Main street Htnbles, Greenfield, Mass.
rucsdnv. Anrll IS. Kortv rnce horses nnd
tho balance business horses from 1000 to
1000, ono load noithern New York horses.
ROGER ROl'IUCE, 1'rop. 15
SCOTT FARM
E. C. TENNEV, Mgr.
Blue Ribbon Guernsey Ilulter and Pure
bred Hull Calves for sale.
Visitors always welcome. Orders taken
now for pure Maple Syrup.
Auction Sale of Personal Property
at
MAI'hF.WOOD FARM,
WINCH KSTEH, X. II.
Thursday, April 20
at 10 o'clock a. m.
As wo are soon to remodel our build
iugs, will reduce our stock lv selling
several horses, including a good young
pair heavy draltors, 10 head or cuttle,
including some choice dairy cows, a
Jersey bull 22 months old, several good
turn out cows nnd heifers, lot of shotes
una poultry.
Farm machinery, mowers, rake, cul
tivators, sowers, heavy 2-horso wagon,
dump cart, 1-horse wagon, market
wagon, --seat express wagon nearly
new, top carriage, buggy, sleigh, pung,
2 heavy sets work harness, 2 driving
harness, lot of smnll tools, hnv, and a
VHllCly 111 iiouscuoiu xuiniiuic.
For further particuars see posters.
WILLIAM E. JOHNSON
Tel. 51-2.
COME IN AND LOOK OVER
THE NEWEST AND
Latest Styles for Spring 1916
in Overcoatings, Suitings
and Trouserings
Suits, from $20 to $40
Trousers, from $ 5 to $12
Havo jour clothes mitdo FOR YOU
nnd got clothes that WII.I, I'lT and
glvo luitisfuetory servicer.
Tbo bestthorols in Tailoring.
WALTER H. HAIGH
Custom Tailor Elliot Street
Nutting Pictures
NEW SUBJECTS
CLAPP & JONES'S
LUMBER WANTED
All kinds and sizes of native, luinbcs
in car lots only. Writo and state, uuan
tity, kind, sizo and price, f. o, b. your
station. Address, "Lumber Dealer,'
c'o Reformer Ofllce, Brattleboro, Vt.
Moran&Rohde
Enbalmers and Funeral Olreolois
Phone 3S1.W. 57 Main SI., Bratlleboro, Vt.
Vt. Mcenso 100-10 j. N. II. Licensor:.
EXCLUSIVE UNDERTAKING
$5onb Sc km
Embolmcrs
Automobile 8rlre Telephone 201-W
IinATTI.EUOnO VT.
FLOWERS
Loose or in DESIGNS can al
ways be had nt right prices of
HOPKINS, THE FLORIST
Main Street. Brattlcboro
The Melrose Hospita
WEST BRATTLED OnO, VT.
Well enulnned for tho caro of mcdl
cal, uurslcnl and confinement cases, also
chronic Invalids, rheumatics, nervous nnd
mild mental cases. Bkllled nursing, good
loon aim lunnonnuie rntes.
OH. IC.'R. IjYNCH, Supt.
Helena I). Mathews, Matiou.
WANTED.
WANTED Good herdsman. Inquire
with references of W. K. ADAMS, Dick
inson Farm. 13-tf
WANTED Work on farm for summer
by middle-aged man. NELSON FRENCH,
inestcr, t. . l
WANTED Middle-aged farm horse, ser-
viccaoiy sound, i.ivo weiRiit nnu price,
Aauress "jCMlia, I'noenix umcc. l
WANTED Few good cows due to
freshen In March and April. A. G.
BARNES, Vernon, Vt. ' , S3-tf
WANTED Two or three men to work
In my portable nawmlll. For paitlculars
aauress u. ai. ilauo, wimington, vt
13-1C
WANTED A thorough experienced
wni-Kiug loremnn on inrm. Slate panic
illuls. Address "FARMER." Phoenix of
TWELVE PAGES
BRATTLEBORO.
FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1010.
THE VERMONT PHQ2NIX
Published In Brattleboro every Friday.
HUBSORIPTION PRICE $1.50 A YEAR.
$1.00 for elirlit months; 75 cents for tlx
months; 50 cents for four months; 40 cents
for three months. All subscriptions are nay
able strictly In advance, and all papers are
stopped promptly at their expiration unless
the subscriptions are renewed.
Rates of display ndvertlslnc furnished on
application. Small classified advertisements.
10 cents per line first Insertion, five cents per
line each subsequent insertion.
(Entered at the Brattleboro post office as
second class mall matter.)
Statement of the Ownership, Manage.
ment, Circulation, Etc.,
of Tho Vermont Phoenix, published eV'
ory i'Tiuay, at urattieboro, Vermont, rc-
(luircu uy tne Act or August 24. 11L
Editors, mnnnglng editors and business
managers, wnitcr Ji. iluDbaiu and II. C
Rice, of Urattieboro. Vt.
Publisher, The Urattieboro Publishing
to., or dirnttieooro. vt.
Owners, Walter 13. Hubbard. Howard C.
Rice, E. II. Crane and C. F. Mann, all of
urattienoro, vt.
(Signed)
HOWARD C. RICE.
Sworn tii and subscribed before me this
Slst day or March, 1016.
O. 13. HUGHES, Notary Public.
lice.
15
WANTED Wo want to list your prop
erty, no commission unless n sale Is
made. Write or call.S. W. EDOETT &
CO. BO-tf
WANTED Work on farm or gentle
man a pinee, uy energetic.
OUR FORESTS RESERVES.
YVc commend to tho reading of all Vcr
montcis the article on forestry in this
state, wiitten by Uodeiic M. Olzendam,
Screams Attracted Father's Attention
Nora Trevarrow Sister of Lillian
Trcvarrow of Rice's Restaurant.
Xora Trcvatiow, 5, dnualitcr of Mr. and
Mrs. William Trevarrow, was so badly
burned Tuesday forenoon while nt play
near her lather's sugar house in East
Dover that she died about S o'clock
Wednesday evening.
While .Mr. Irevarrow was boibnct sap on
his farm on Adams hill, which is over the
lino in Xewfnne, the little cirl nnd a
brother, who is a small boy, started n lire
under a small stone arch which the chil-
dien had built, mid the girl's clothing
caught lire.
Screams by the children were heard by
Mr. Trevarrow, who mslicd out of bis
sugar house to find the child enveloped in
llnmes. Her clothms was nearly limned
oil when her lather reached her.
Dr. L. H. Gordon of Williamsville was
summoned, and be found the girl to be in
very seuous condition, rrom the first it
as realized that her recovery was a mat
ter of much doubt.
Xora Trevarrow was bom July 4, 1910.
and was one of a family of eight children.
There nie four sisters and three brothets
iving. The oldest sister is the wife of
Walter Motso of Townshend. Another
sister is Miss Lillian Ttcvanow, who is
employed in Rices lestatirant in Ihattleboro.
Prayer will be offeied in the home Sat
urday at 11 o'clock and the funeral will
o held at 12 o clock m the Methodist
church in Kast Dover. The Initial will
take place in Williamsville.
younS 'man niried "'oeinf: S t " W S c.eta.y of the Vermont 1'orest.y asso
not to work for employer. Address , ciation, for the Kim Tiec .Monthly or
C." Phoenix Office. 14-lc,,x- i i i . i mm ii
ood9tock and teprmted in 1 he Phoenix.
T6 RENT. You will find it illuminating and instiuc
i . tive. It is surpiising to most of us to
i j ri c.in i rasuire in uuiuoru; auo'i.,,.,,. .i... (, ..,. .,.. ionm ,.
one In Dummerston, J, HENRY-PRATT. know Umt tllc st!lt0 nm own' 1-',luo "ctcs
Urattieboro, Vt Y 15-li-.0f state foiests, distributed through 12
For Sale Seed Potatoes
Early .Market A 'new
variety, very
enrlv. .frft from dtsensa a 'id heavv 'vleld
Ing. 1, grew ,180- bushel l per acre last
zti n j r '.itsnel. . i -1
, W, ,A VAGl;, Putney, Vt.
FOR SALE One-half mile from South
Newfane. 140-ncro farm divided as fol
lows: 40 acres mowing. CO acres pasture.
DO acres pine. Good sugar lot setting 600
uucKeis. rwo-story wnue nouse, norse
barn and two cow barns. II. II.
BROWN, South Newfane, Vt. 12-15
WANTED!4
Fttictly fresh eggs, butter and
poultry and wool. Cash paid.
GREENFIELD LIVE POULTRY CO.
119 Wells St.
FOR SALE CO horses to select from
Wo just had 20 In 18 pairs matched
2100 to 3R0D. Severn! singles 1100 to
1S00; a few seconds 000 to 1100. All
horses warranted: next load In 10. days
CH IU'ORD it WC'OD HORSB CO.. I J
V ood. Prop.. Blielburne Fnlls. Muss.
14-13
Tfl t FT Pnah1pnin tir 1; 'hnnil nf towns nnd KOVI'Il ffltllltipH. nn whirlt foros.
young cattle; also lOff-ocro farm to rent( i onfmiml il,.imiimtiitinn
Inquire of IRA JAY DUTTON, Wards- " rulcs !lle cnioitcu, demonstiations
uoro, vt. 14-tf made and lumber giown for revenue pur
TO RENT Two lartro pastures on' noses. The. only icscrvation in Windham
West bill. Putney. Kor particulars nP-..f,,intv i In Tnivnahenil lint nthni- InHs
ply to MRS. M. E. WAS I H3 URN, Put-'1-01"1 18 in -lounslicml, nut othei tiacts
noy, Vt. , " ' 14-15 in this section may lie taken later, ns the
state forester is authorized to buy, survey
and reforest state lands annually to the
amount of $7,500. The state's control o:
forests is of value from Ihc point of tim
bettor rvPtiojnd cyjtivatiep for Jd
which 'eventually in this state wc arc to
draw practically nil of our, white coal for
power and lighting purposes, and in the
letterment of scenic attractions. Some
pointed paragraphs on the taxation o
standing timber form an impoitnnt pai
of the article. Ho puts the blame for de
iiuded hillsides squarely on the people
"Tho over-taxing of forests compels the
lumberman to use his timber. We consid
er timber ns ical estate and year after
year we tax it like a mine instead of ticat
ing it as a crop. Theie are wood lots in
every town of the state upon which the
annual gtowtli fails to pay the taxes."
FOR SALE FARM. A dcslrnblu farm
of K!0 acics more or less situated In
Londonderry on Hip main road from
South Londonderry to Chester, In sight
of load from Manchester to Chester;
watered from streum running through
mowing and lmstuies from l.owei luxe
lever railing running water at nnuso iitui
barn: sugar orchard and nnnle orchards
and heavy timbered lot been growing for
o years or more: scnooiuouse on me
farm: enslly can led on .being meadow
laud. A tileasant nlacc for suuimei
boarders, for fuithcr paitlculars impure
if MRS. AlMSIIi J. ItAMSDICLU .South
Londonderry. 15-17
It Is all right to believe
everything will turn out all rleht. nro
vldcd you keep hustling and Keep In-
surea. consult us tor lnsuranco auvice.
National Life Insurance Co., Montpeller
Vt. (Mutual.)
ALBERT C. LAIRD, Special Agent
Abbott Block, Brattleboro Vt.
SPECIAL NOTICES.
FUR WORK of all kinds; repairing a
specialty: new skins for sale. MRS. B. H,
HOLMES, B'J Green Street, hours S to
Urnttleuoro. 4U-1U-
CHIROPODY and EhamDoo Parlors-
switches, pompadours, combings made up
to oraer, wus, tsi. i'. aAiLimx, in
Malh St. Phone. 19-tf
SLATING AND ROOFING of all kinds
and chimney cleaning done to order.
13. D. TORREY, 59 Frost St., Brattlobo-
ro. Telephone 476-W,
ItllR RARMf NTfi nintlA iitui rmtitlrpil.
Including coats. Cut prices from April
to August to avoid next season's rush,
Kstimates given. would call. MRS. J.
M. SHAW, West Noithllcld, Mass. 11-tf
l6st
Urattieboro havings Hank Rook No.
2S0UU. Issued Dec, 27, WIG. Kindly send
any Information concerning sumo to
alioVO named hank.
ltrattlelloiU. Vt.. API II 10. lfllfi. 15-17
LEGAL NOTICES.
ESTATE OF CHARLES S. CLARK.
UTATE OF VERMONT.
ZJ Ulstilct of Marlboro. SS.
Tho Honorable Probate Court for the
D strict or Marllioro
To nil nelsons inteiested In the estate
of Charles S. Clark, lato of Urattieboro
In said district deceased, CJreetlng:
WEST DUMMERSTON.
Miss Gladys Stevens of Brattlcboro
visited her pandinother, Mrs. Nellie
1'hillips, last week.
The Ladies' Aid society spent n
very pleasant afternoon with Mrs.
Samuel Clark Wednesday.
Mr. and Mis. Wesley Richardson
and daughter of Brattleboro spent
the week-end at T. V. O'Briens.
Mrs. Ida McCrellis of Brattlcboro
visifed the fiist of this week with her
parents, Mr. and Mrs, A. O. Norcross.
Schools in districts No. 1 and 0 be
gan the spring term Monday, Miss
Richmond or Westminster
Ciiaham and Weeks, true, tried and
trusty men, familiar with public affair
and state needs and pioblems, will mill;
an ideal combination at the head of the
Republican state ticket this year. Giaham
and Weeks will appeal to votcis, and they
will give the state eHicient set vice after
elected.
No. 0 and Miss Murphy teaching No
l,
Mrs. Parmely Dav of New Haven
is spending the week at her farm here.
.Mrs. Lewis Coombs is ill. Miss John
William M. Wood, president of tl
American Woolen company, is sending lot'
teaching tors broadcast throughout the country
urging the people to raise sheep, as the
world's supply of wool is decreasing rap'
idly, while the demand is ever on the in
crease. Vermont used to have hundred
sou, nurse, of Brattlcboro is caring :of sheep whcie she has but tens now
for her.
Mrs. Loom Cullinnn of Washington,
Considering the steady advance in prices
of mutton and wool, there is n valuable
is state in President
D. C., is at her home horc. Her father, ,iMt t( fftlmclg in thil
P. Conunrn. died yesterday. An obit- . ,, . ..
uary notice of him is published else- V 00(1 H lcttcr-
wnero in this paper.
Passion week will bo observed in the
Baptist church in West Dummerston
next week with services every night
except Saturdny. Rev. E. W. 'Johnson
of West WnrdBboro, P.cv. Waltor Cur
tis of Westminster West nnd Rov. V.
A. Kelly of South Newfane will be tho
speakers.
BRATTLEBORO PERSONAL.
Robert Kirby spent Sunday in Put
ney with friends.
Miss Pay Milton of the Holstein
Prieslnn ullice went Saturday to her
homo in Ponacook, N. II., whero she
will spend a two-week's vacation.
Mm. K. 1 j. Tvlinwltnn mill AIIrh Mil.
At a probate court, hidden at I!rnttle-I,i...i K,nvltnn ...put Vnrtlininntnn
boro within and tor said district on the K""Iv"on el ortl ainpinn,
2!ith day of Muroh, win, an Instrument Mass., bnturdny to stay until Mon
pui porting to bo the last will nod testa- day, Thev spent Mondnv in Springfield,
ment of ( liiules H. Clnrlt, Into of Hint- w .., rni,,ui,
tloboro, In said district, deceased, was Mrs. W. R. Noycs nnd son, Lcightpn,
prrsented to tho court nfmesald for pro-, returned Fridny afternoon from
,",!c', ,. , , i , . JStanstend, P. Q., whero they spent two
And It Is oi (lei e,l by said court thatl ,..,.i,u ...ifi. j' w.ml ' '.(. ,.
tho 21ith day of April. WW. at the pio-l""1" M,8, oytiS parents, Ml.
bate olllce In said Urattieboro, bo as- and Mrs. Huntley.
rlgned for proving said Instrument; and Afvs. Hnvlnn flnndhm, nnd irrnnil.
coiM''"? ;uhl1:iVlVh.'sl,,er .laugliter, Miss Dorothy Schwenlc, re
Ihreo weeks successively In The Ver- turned Snturday from Palrhaven,
Therefore, you aie hereby notified to
id been
L'S StoltC.
two
mont Phoenix, n newspaper clrculatliiMMnHtl.. whero thev hni
In that vicinity. In said district, ine-i'," ,,' ,',, ro,.1' ,Pi,,in",
vlous to tho time anno nted. weeks with Mrs. thane
Miss Klisnboth Brnsor nnd Miss
Saturday to spend Sunday with Miss
Going fishing tonionow? If so go duly
and tuily prepared. The equipment, first
of all, includes n license to fish in this
year 1D10, and a second essential is a six
inch mensme. Good men have been
mulcted nnd have had their names printed
in tho black book simply because they
had ono to three tiout mote than 5V
inches but less than six inches in lengtl
The chances are that but few fish will 1
caught on the opening day, but with a few
warm days conditions will cliango rapidly
and within another week the fishing ought
to bo in piime condition. The brooli
were filled with nn alMindaiico of water
during the summer and fall months o
lOlfi, nnd the conditions for tiout throngl
the winter have been ideal. Tho littl
fishing that has been done in tho neaiby
stieains in New Hampshire since Apiil
indicates that trout have incicased lapidly
and havo made a good growth in the past
few months, Visitois to the Gulf brook
in Chesterfield teportcd that almost all
tho tiout that havo taken tho ,bait havi
been above tho six-inch mcasuicuient.
appear before said court, at tno timo p,.!,,,,,,,, wiidm- ivnm n ninenfleld
and placo aforesaid and contest the 'it"" co "del wont to Uiconiieia
iiioh.iin nf M id will, ir vou have cause. : Saturday to spend Sundnv with Miss
tilveu under inv hand at Itrnttleboro Norlno Richmond, who has been visit- tr
In said dlstllet, this 12tl day of April thlro (,ineo Ju,r roturn from Wnsh-,0
W-i'- H. E. EDDY, Register. UiKton. They nil returned Sunday, 'tl
Bccauso from .'1,000,000 to -1,000,000
ons of potatoes rot ovory year in'
lermnny, tho government is fostering
tho erection ol drying plants.
ast Dover Child and Brother
Had Fire Under Arch
Houghton & Simonds to Have
Store on Hooker Corner Lot
GERMANS MAKE GAINS.
But Trench Commander Says Casualty
List Is Thrco Times as Large as
Among His Men.
In a desperato struggle for the pos
session of Dead Mun's Hill, near Ver
dun, Sunday night the Germans penc
trrited the French line a distance of
500 yards. The French fell back to a
point whero their lino is now almost
straight, and they have held their pres.
cut post
morons
cr say
tho campaign as nf pr
by the Germans. In the onslaughts ho
claims that tho German loss is in tho
ratio of threo to one as compared with
tho Fittiiebflud.thi., he, is-plputif-nlly
J .. . . - . i i . i r. 1 1 r. - "i
SmMlllCd .Willi INCH illlll IIllllMIlUMB tu
Froutago CO Feet on Main Street New
Owners Will Movo Dry Goods Busi
ness There.
Negotiations were completed yester
day whereby Houghton & Simonds, tho
well-known dry goods firm, will become
owners or the corner lot on tho Hook
er property at the junction of Main
and High streets.
Tho lot contains room for a building
approximately 00 feet on Main stroct
nnd 125 feet on High stroct. The lino
is just south of tho Hooker residence.
Houghton & Simonds, who now oc
cupy the corner store in the Hooker
building on the opposite sido of Main
street, intend to erect n thoroughly
modern fireproof building on the new
ly acquired property. They havo not
completed plans for a building, but
they have in contemplation a three-
story structure, the first floor for their
own occupancy and the second and
third floors for offices and apartments.
The lay of the land is especially suit
ed for a corner entrance to such n
building.
Tho purchase was made of John 15.
Mnnlcy, who recently bought the en
tire Hooker property. Mr. Mnnlcy
plans to erect u largo garage on the
roar part of tho land, and after selling
the corner lot to Houghton & simonds
he still has left tho residence and land
in front of it and north to tho First
Baptist church.
The building which Houghton & Si
monds contemplate putting up will havo
unobstructed light on the east, south
and west sides and will bo one of the
finest store buildings in town, enabling
them to arrango and display goods to
particularly good advantage.
CHARGED WITH SETTING FIRE.
Proprietor of Spofford Hotel Which
Was Burned Indicted In Keene
Several Plead Guilty.
Tho grand jury for the April term of
superior court for Cbeshiro county roso
in Keene. .N. 11.. Wednesday and return.
tion under the pressure qt nn- d ,3 ' aict ' llta. Jol' w di.,o.
attacks. Iho drench command- ,, nf f.i1fnr0i,i nrcnn. ArH n
S. that he is. willing to COlltlnUO nt Wnstmnrnlnnd. fnrtmrv thr..,
esent conuueteu
counts; James Kastrica of Keene, lar
ceny of $120; Ella Shelley of Hins
dale, statutory; Henry DeBell of Hins
dale, statutory; Charles Shelley of
Hifisdalelnccstr- Geo'rgossy'AtcNcll of
Keene, larceny; Henry Smith, alias
submarines have continued their activ
ity, and each day several vessels have
leen suiiii, nut .wuii nine iui ui mi-.
WANT TROOPS WITHDRAWN.
... 4 , JVt'UUL'. JUlCtiir . Will HI. uilUd
striko back when the opportune tinio,lr Jo aHag John aa alias
cuiiii-H. i mi iwtu I. Henry Goro, obtaining money under .
raids during the present week. r.hoalso rotcnscs. four counts.
The indictment against John W.
Dinagan of Chesterfield is perhaps tho
most important true bill returned. It
alleges that on March 31 Dinagan set
flro to tho Spofford House in Chester
field, causing it to bo destroyed.
Dinagan was arrested on a capias
writ issued directly after tho jury re
ported. He furnished bail, fixed at
$o,000, for his appcaranco in court la
tor in the term.
Yesterday ho pleaded not guilty.
Dinagan was proprietor of the hotel
at. the timo of the lire ana nail con-
Carranza Wishes to Have Pursuit of
Villa Left to His Constitutionalist
Army.
The Mexican government has sent to
its embassador in Washington a note
delivered yesterday to Secretary Lan-
bo withdrawn from Mexican territory 'ducted it two or threo years. At one
be withdrnnwn from Mexican territory imc ,e iad an innkeeper's license to
and tho pursuit of Villa left to the seu liquor, but it was revoked by the
Mexican Constitutionalist army. The state commissioners,
do facto government of Mexico eon-j ,.n the others against whom indict
tends that as tho American troops nlCnts were returned also were arraigned
crossed into Mexico without permis- yesterday.
sion they should be withdrawn until i Charles Shelley of Hinsdale pleaded
a proper' formal compact can be enter-! guilty to incest "and was sentenced to
ed into between tho two governments, .state prison at Concord for not less
Before this news hail come irom than two years anil six moiuns noi uunu
northern Mexico that tho Carranza than three years and to pay costs. Ar-
troops were co-operating with the thur Duquette of Westmoreland pleaded
Americans in the pursuit of Villa, and guilty to forgery, three counts. On ono
that Gen. Pershing had been in con- indictment ho wns sentenced to state
sulfation wtth the Carranza leaders prison for not less than ono year and
near Chihuahua. Dodd's cavalrv has ono day nor more than thrco years and
advanced somo 400 miles into Mexico, pay costs. The other two indictments
Tho Death of Villa is ngain denied were continued ior sci icncc oim-.
nnd it is believed that he has broken and Douquetto wero taken to Concord
his command into small bands. Ono by Sheriff Lord in the afternoon to
statement is to tho effect that tho
American troops nro simply pursuing
boirin their sentences.
Henrv Smith ot .Mariuoro picaueii
iniiij i ::. : . . . . i-
a rear guard,.tho main body of Mexi- to om oi, y unuer
cans
lllgl
, with Villa haying contiin their XISaZ
it m nnotner uirecuou. . .!....- -- - ,. ,,. . ,, .. ...,
taut engagement with the Villa forces
has been reported miring tne ween.
BRATTLEBORO PERSONAL.
Miaa Helen Dodce. operator for tho
Postal Telegrnph company, was called
to I.ewiston, Me., Saturday on ac
count of tho illness of her mother.
Mrs. Favor nnd Miss Taggart of
Gardner, Mass., who were called to tho
home of their aunt, Mrs. M. H. Thur
nor o ( Wnshlncton street, on account
of tho latter 's illness, returned homo
tho first of tho week, Mrs. Thurber
being much better.
According to William Willaid Ilowaid,
sccictary of the Albanian jelicf commit
tee, 150,000 human beings in Albania havo
Starved to death in the last IS months nnd
600,000 more aie likely to die befou nor
mal conditions aie icstored in that coun
try. This is not, however, a lesult of the
war, but is duo to a famino caused by fail
ure of, tho crops and to nn epidemic of
typhus. The war has retarded the relief
work to some extent, but as tho Alba
nians nro not participating in the Balkan
conflict their present misery has little con
nection with the war itself. There will be
an appeal for American sympathy and aid,
because in tho present circumstances tho
United Stntes is nbout the only country
to which the sulToiing Albanians can look
for immediate relief.
on one ho was sentenced to the house
of correction nt Westmoreland for ono
year nnd to pay costs. Tho threo oth
er indictments "were cuntinued for sen
tence. In tho afternoon he was com
mitted by Deputy Sheriff F. J. Bennett.
George McNeil of Keene pleaded guilty
to breaking and entering and larceny.
Ho wns ordered to pay costs and his
case was continued for sentence, mitti
mus to issuo nt tho call of the county
solicitor. James Kastrica of Keeno
j pleaded guilty to larceny. Ho was or-
(lereu to pay costs uiiu m vunv
continued for sentence, mittimus to is
sue nt tho call of tho county solicitor.
Henry DeBell of Winchester pleaded
nolo to' a statutory chargo nnd was or
dered to pav n flno of $50 and costs. A
six months' jail senteiicc was suspenucu
during good behnvior, mittimus to issue
nt the call of the county solicitor.
Mrs. Kiln Shelley of Hinsdalo pleaded
guilty to u statutory ehnrgo nnd her
case was continued for sentence.
Big Public Park for Lyndonvllle.
Tho Lyndonvillo Improvement society
has recently bought n largo tract of
land of tho Boston and Maino railroad
for a park. I'urchaso was mado possi
ble by the will of W. I. Powers of
Lvndonvillo who gave tho society $10,
000 for that purpose, $3,000 for tho
purchaso and $10,000 for maintcuauco
nnd improvement. A landscapo garden
or will bo employed to lay out the
grounds. The tract comprises 18 ncres,
n largo port heavily wooded, and in
cludes tho largo grovo whero for CO
years tho Methodist eanip meetings
hnvo been held.
