ALL the news ad more daily ING
features are b~inging The
___ HEstNre HERALD One Cent
HERALD record-breaking Hne Cent
circulation increases.
NO. 3502. WEATHER-CLOUDY; SHOWER. WASHINGTON. D. C.. SUNDAY. MAY 21, 1916. _________ ONE CENT.
PLOT TO DRAG
' U. S. INTO WAR
BEING PROBED
Revolution in Austria-Hun
gary One Phase of Alleged
Conspiracy Here.
ALLIED AGENTS ACCUSED
Department of Justice Work
ing on Clews in New York,
Chicago and Elsewhere.
BIG SUMS OF CASH COLLECTED
Prominent Men Accused by Austrian
Official Claiming Intimate Knowl
edge of Facts Unearthed.
By -. D. WEYER.
SThe son News Servile.)
New York. May 20-Evidence of a
country-wide plot carried on by Chech
agitators in the United States aimed al
bringing about a revolution in Austria
Hungary and, incidentally. involving the
United States in the present war on the
eide of the allies. has been obtained by
the Department of Justice in the course
of a searching investigation of charges
rnade tlh ree rr-tnths ago by the Providence
Jaurnal agauost the editor of the Bo
hemian Weekly Vesmir, published in Chi
cago, accusing hun of being subsidized
by the Austrian government.
The results of the Investigation are
kept c:osetv secret by the Justice Depart
ment. but it was iearn'd on reliable au
thoriyt today that a vigorous prosecution
of the alleged plotters is being contem
plated. and that when the facts become
known the country will be startled by
sensational revelantions of a widespread
ietwork of propaganda work in whIch
. number of prominent business and pro
fessional men of New Yo:k, Chicago and
several West. rn cities are said to have
played an important part.
Large Sums Collected.
Large sums of money have been rol
lected among the antisAustrian element
in this country ever since the outbrealf
of the war, and have been forwarded to
secret agents in Europe by two Bohemian
banking firms, one in New York and the
other In f'hirano.
Th plan is said to have been worked
out alorg :ines similar to those pursued
in the alleged propaganda for the over
throw of the Greek monarchy and the
substitution of a republic, details of
which were gained, according to Berlin
dispatches several months ago. from pa
pers taken frnm a British navy officer
captured by the Gernans.
Authentic information obtained from a
prominent AuXstrirn official in this cour
trv wio clams to have complete knowl
edge of the facts obtained.b-v the Depart
mIent of Justce in its irvestigation. is to
the eff-ct that the propaganda has been
carried on urler th- lrection and super
%ision of prominent British officials in
this country.
New York. Cleveland. Chicago and Mil
wa ikee ar, sl to be the main centers
of the agitation which nas organized. it
Is assertel by rmy informant, by special
Eritish secret agemrs, amoonz the radIcai
(*hech lop latian of those cities
Detroit Speech
Pleases Colonel
Believes He Has Eliminated
Ford as Presidential
Possibility.
fBy the Son New. Service.)
Oyster Bay. N. Y., May M-Colone
Roosevelt is back from his Detroit trip
and he is happy over the blow he struck
there at pacificism in general, and Henry
Ford is partiular. He believes that it
has eiven a new impetus to the move
ment for preparedness in the Middle West
and has a.o eliminated Mr. Ford as a
Presidential possibility.
The Colonel feels that no political de
%elopments of importance will revolve
about Mr. Ford. and the Colonel's friends
think that the su cess of his invasion of
Detroit and the enthusiasm he met with
there lent great strength to the Roose
velt boom.
After conferenece, the plan for tire next
trip the former President will make
were made known. Thia journey which
will take the Colonel away on May 28.
and bring hirn back on June 1, aix days
before the cntvenition,. so far includes
only one apeech of any magnitude, that
at Kansas City, Mla. on Memorial Day.
* .atican's Intervention Denied.
'Amstetdam, May 20.-The announce.
ment in the British Parliament that the
Vatican had made repreaentationa tc
Gerisnany to have Germany give up het
submarine warfare is denied by tha
Nortb G~ermnan Gazette.
Uritish Destroyer Rit by Bomb.
Berlin, 'via Sayville wireless. May 0.
A Britih destroyer was struck by a
botab droped from a German seaplani
duibig the brief naval engagemnt of h
Elanders coat on Tuesday, it was an
nonae'd by the admniralty today,
S#'vtee to ?altimere.
and Ohio "Earery Hour on
th si's flaturdays and Sun
~a~w 37T romad trip--Av,
4'
-t tf
- EAVESDROPPING ON
G. 0. P. LIMITS
1ALL "HOT AIR"
'I Bare frn
Nominating Speeches at Chi
cago Must Be Made in Cwg.My2.-erP okrsI~
Io Wil /re ilnth adheo
Ten Minutes.I
SECONDING ADDRESSESO
TO CONSUME FIVE MINUTES t o rn
(By the Sun News Service.)
Chicago, May 20.-Nominating speeches
to be limited to ten minutes and second- Wiel Orpet w ld lote
Ing addresses to five minutes, will be theti
rule In the Republican national conven-JugChreItDon ywoi
on, opening June 7 at the Coliseum.t rt
The fact of there being sixteen known A rted l J. h hat t
Presidential aspirants has prompted thesertIntesxvltrsite osi
party managcrs to suggest a change in FIVE M U the u tt i nd ob "I
the original plan of allotting half an
hour to each eandidate. Such a program hre the nd te of a or-t
would consume eight hours, while under
the ten and five minute limit plans, the a e i o n i th e
time required for the nominating and
seconding would be cut considerably. ha n h ' Rerrilo
Knowledge of the proposed plan of the
party chiefs to speed up the work of the
convention came today when It developed
hour~~A ba sa o toar eaheaddae c apoga
that William J. Calhoun, who will place
the name of Senator Lawrenc Y. Sher
man in nomination, had bn asked by
national committee heads jf he could con
rne his remarks to ten minute.
" Willny man who could not place his can
didate in nomination in a ten-minute
speech hasn't much of a candidate," is
sid to have beenthe rely can consul at Dublin had reported to
The Presidential boom of John W. him having received official confirmation
Weeks, United States Senator from Mas- ta eeihC yc a enan
sachusetts, was anchored ir' Chicago to-teedotnyar'ipsnetfr
day for convention week. Mercer Vernonpatcaio InheSn.eiursng
brought it here from Washington, D. C., M.Pg dehwvr hth a
and put it on exhibition at the Congress be nbe islt e fliien
IHotel. Senator Weeks is the New Eng-I
land States' offering in the group of "at- theitacofSnorO ran
lies" or "favorite sons."ofNwYr.teSaeDptenha
Sunday SportsCodmnd
-. lantic City. N. J., May 20.--The byarse nDbi sarsl fSt
Presbyterian general assembly today Sn 'i pi~g
went on record as against all games and Klalnwl rbbyb eesd c
sports on Bunday in civil lIfe as well a~s crigt eotrcie rmAba
1sn the army and navy, The sweepingsaoPgeytrd.
resolution, orginally embodied in the re
port of the committee on the Sabbath.,rtcEplrr ae
was adopted after a heated discussion. Citn oa a 0-htteCok
Breaks Flying Record. ,enaciepeiinisfewsteor
New York. May 20.-The American long-reevdhetoa.hem brsfte
distance flying record was broken today epdto illn nteUie t
by Victor Carlatrom, who, carrying a' bu uy1
200-pound psenger, flew from NewportDcoain ayxcri oFedik
News. Va., to Sheepethead Bay. a diis-an getw.
tance of 400 malea, in four hours and ouctta tmr n ho 12 on rp
Chidag, Ms ar.'eet FroUker's oae
for il Ore ilntbeli aea
\ }
~~.~~-i>* A, '-I
A TAPPED WIRE!
Girl's Heart AUTIAAM
i ~Tra of OPet DEAT H BLOW
500,000 of Finest Troops and
eatromeah lay. 1,00 Guns Used in Italian
*Th se v lov b-tters mie f .l1 of enltl-n -
ut ad enarmet.--ne jdgeOffUensive.
In thim th s girl 1woms H'T wrheat, --
all1 ' do '~ not Ithink It' s-, I tiU tul BIG DRIVE CONSIDERED
he, rad by, . any3onl, 1 p th, on- to
whom theyl we h n, :mad for whomn thl, AS "ITS VERDUN" BY ITALY
The prsectin, au mmaintalined IlInternational News Service.)
-at ~ ~ ~ ~ 1-tzI v
thl it rtain Iarts in th.-. te wr By JOSEPH REINCH
no say t. the, 1tat, s o-c th, 1't
<>r ,et chara ciized as, rf l the rport iit- 1,,\, )
I! at he Would m-irry Miss Youk.,r.t w
After - ix days, of tcyl justiornin Jur- Py Joseph Reinch. famon(Ius military
11ng whIichl about V0' ven r-ornl were- ex- estorian, who vistled the Italian front
amitned thle lirst four of tire 1,rors whdinl ompany- wIth King Victor Emanuel
.ill try Orpet %%-re srlt allnd swe n ti:s week.
inl today. Paris4, May "0.--Half a million of the
Aies Aust ro-Hungarian troops, support
F * 1 e by ] iM gunls, of which a large pro
Furious Charges iportion are heavy cannon, are engaged
~the fiercest offensi, e Austria has yet
Madeon V rdunundertaken in this war.
ITheir tremendous drive, proceeding from
Germans Gain Temporarily i adSgn aly,
But Later Are Driven oiadrtl ea i edures
Back by French. FI l t antd h lwrm
1 BY the Sun Newn Service.) t atr edn
Par I,, May 20.-The crown prince's hrteIaltienrdtemra
forces returned this afternoon to their i
efforts to capture Le Mort Hommie, onl*~a htvrteft ih vr e
the West bank of the 'Meuse. !i r s i aii e 1ol eev
more tha usuall 7voln artiler
fire wa mad siultaeouly o th
whol setro7h rnhfot
Githrnls ofHeaMrt AUSRmmeM
by the5attacking tinest Tooohs ans
oftehlbt thedoutettack~ A* un nitla
which the Freh launched all along~*~
Gema rsh-dov the Geran ou(ttOfnie
of l- the ostin the had. ganedi
aolI t:,no tinkt the~~ BIG ntino, isCONIEEDbewnth
t--It is'our Verdun."-the.regional Italto
Ii. t t V ~er tsota: d s.r i Iot ommeade "TSl meRDat h Bs headqarer
T~ts proc-etiuo hs. - tnitx Forc intrsagnitudre therblwesem
IllCtctai trt i ti 3tlle s clsly the ase r's ttni effor
1:5,-s Sto toaphuretaterdun.
3:1t -ar-l~ize a ni '. t. r;~Whten ~the~ Itin entere th wara
A fc:-si ,i. oftcis,'~-- t or~ntdu atB wl;heeh fatnmigh mvertary
logwhih aout-tm viorsoy x w. hisa atrmin h Gaictiae ud tx tarerv
anxle~lthetirs for ott'e Itrs serdihed omas " ith Italian t or ey.''
tody.tsionis da a delat bao nitoito thela
army and utt-o-ugeiae trewooepof Veneot-a
which, f sucnscefswshfalathe Autrano-l
useariohstas oCfrcepeceeit
tly pottonly heving heriofhe rengge
* itt thetist ero nces , f orsi e hicht she hase
b nekenIn bti aoreg igeie
M aa onv rNon trendywilthustrian faoeein ftoin
Geran Gin Tepoarlyade Venetiabut valeyswl. otee
Itiveou therdnsuto the Trentin
B t aterAre rive coninanerpeln Nat haihdcrera
(fl te unNew ~rie ondonur MaV2-TrdveinnNw
Pars My 2-Tte cownpricestate thet aZelin entee thewar ah
forcs etrnethatrono thctor scene ao.h dnerotrncion oseth Dutce
ertnt capth e L o mat Hon or. lie Bht watevier t he h ate might o with
the wst bak of he ~ieuse tie arss ofine Amica n :lde ev
ThentncN. whic Mas 0-Gv Frede yrr, l utmtt o hth e
Wmlore tan uually vnwihle cherlly Crinn-. as.3 Bterktaia trecr.'.
whel shecto oftthrey Grene roa!,Wes- in todea a eah bld t etealSn
tertt tehnr fhtintogh the Prest -hday, Mayf8 inccsful, tp srinsWuld
FrnhanedrencheSt.nouth. dentistetrovin forawch shevas
+'
Cubans Try to Lynch
American Auto Racer
(by The San News Service).
Havana, May 20.-The cele
bration of the fourteenth anui
versary of the independence of
Cuba, today, was marred by
at attempt by nativcs to lynch
Albert Guillot, an American,
and driser of a National car
which collided witf a Stutz
driven by Maxinio Herrera,
causing the death of Herrera.
The auto races were a feat
ure of the celebration, and aft
cr ahe accident, an imniense
throng rushed onto the track
and seired the American drix
Cr. Ruralcs and police reseraCs
saved hint front the infuriated
black'.
Tonight the negroc-, waho
regardetl Herrera a, a racial
hero, were still talking of -
lynching the white race driur.
LABELS T. R.
"ANTIQUATED"
Henry Ford, on Eve of Fish
ing Trip, Pays Respects
to Former President.
PACIFIST AVERS COLONEL
HAS FALLEN BEHIND TIMES
Declares President Wilson Is "Next" to
"Munitions Crowd:" Believes He
"Has 'Em by the Throat."
41By the San News erslee.1
Detroit. Mi hi . Mey - H'nry Ford has
gone fishn B-it le('ore departinz he ad
mit Ited he had o:m.e ides abot I etroits
recnt visitr Theoduro Roooev, t-and
wa. quite wulInr to orct them, or
some of the m, at let.
The paitist really did want Iie Col
onel to see hi, 11g workehop, and waited
fo-r hin in his oftic uit. after 4 o to k
Friday afternoon, but s...id the world
(id not ,ontain enugli nfilene to gt
him to motor into twn and call on the
former Proeadent
"Between an ordinar.- rson and an ex
Presid-nt there is L1:1 litte dA : ,
iaid Mr. Ford "s 'en r- t-- 1.me
and gonle sin Roc"e n as I I.
Whtite Houve, and inl th-se ar- he
cntl-e'y failed to undeilr-s-nd the tA"nd
of <vn s and 0:e enti.cats of the
Am, rican people. l i, . t-_-n, a wy
of thinb.ing. ig so aniiusted that the
"x 5 lcire- means beo Aey noth nC
lie is an ordiary citizT i U- 11Se h
!ail, to letp pa nith the Ilmes
"What Mr Rooselit thni abo It
ani mc work worriels ni, not a bit. t-.
in fact it giis Til propa;mnda a boot
in fact. i feei like thankrc imn f
bringing to the attentiil of the pu -I
1"s %i . and thereby, arriogmi ng th p.
i anltist his armamEnt crawl,
--Th ,peonple are iortant. tiirFd
n- And at the proper tin' the pr-.
pii ill attend to Roos1 velt. tI tlii t ou
wht. the Itroule was with Fi la:'s dim
,nstmtion: the munilitions ard armamiint
cr-wd wa5s too .roniiinn in :1 I know
the ral. and I know tiat it :s nIt all
I ain onliinc that President Wilson
i. icxt to thi armamnicit crowd, and I
,rierc tie knows more than he is gi og
out for puli ation. P .rsnally I thina
has 'mn by the throat
AUTOISTS ARE DROWNED
IN THE NIAGARA RIVER
(By the San News Seraece.)
Buffalo. N. Y., May 2.-Albrt J Batt
Buffalo plumber. and liis wife and moth
er-in-law were drowned in Niagara River
tonight. when their automobile. a cov
ered machine, backed off the ferrhoat
Welcome as it was crossing the river
froni Fort Erie, Ontario. to Buffalo. The
chauffeur, Fred Rathinan, was rescued
hy tug men called to the scene iy
whistles of the ferry.
The Batt machine was the last of a
dozen that were loaded on the ferr) on
the Canadian side. When the boat was
in the middle of the rivtr, the machne
backed and broke a chaIn, plunging into
the swiftly running water. Capt. Robert
J. McMurray. veteran river man, rescued
the chauffeur as he was being carried
downstream.
Oregon for Hughes.
Portland. Odreg.. May 20.-Oregon R:.
rublicans have overalielmingly registcred
theIr approval of Justice Charles E.
Htughes as the 1916 standard bearer im tthe
only State in which the justice's name
appeared on the ballots.
"Gas" Substitute Tried Out.
Trenton, N. J., May 20--With Mayor
Donnelly and other members of the city
commission among the interestcd specta
tors, a public demonstratlon a-as given
this afternoon of the use of "gasofoam,'
an automobile fuel of which Henry T.
Caullett, or this city. is the discoverer.
Apartment Robbed of Jewelry.
The apartment of MIss Jane M~cEnew in
the Wesley, 1421 Columbia road r.orthwest,
was entered sometime esterday after
noon and robbed of 380S worth of jewelry.
The robber made his entrance by forc
Ing a double door leading to a porch ad
joInIng the fire escape, Most Go' the
jewglry was initied.
MILITIA FAILS
TO RESPOND IN
BORDER CRISIS
Gen. Funston Notifies War De
partment of Complete Fall
down by Guardsmen.
NONE ARE MUSTERED IN
Protests Sent to Mexico City
from El Paso at Perma
nent Camp Plaais.
FEELING IS BECOMING BITTER
Second Punitie Expedition on Way
Back to Border- Expected to
Arrive on U. S. Soil Tonight.
' v to h a T f
.MIt Ien Frederi - n in, S It ht.
mnot a --nm lete t..fl-dowen on, the. t
of the- N atrm, >15- ' r 7.r eT I '
T' ,AF A :Zona and N- W M' a n :' -
orld 'r.z to I he - a I o 1 t r '-e r
1-rV.r tiwlh '1 I, K a- arm-- a on he
Mfexin i-ra r.
fumrnoned i the c5,re on N
not a ringlo organ:W i -r. fm y
he three States se r- , rr0 st r. r-! r
NMt ven te mI ::ztr. ;. r, par
o the mustrner .'sc'-A'' in't
Milliomn. Refas.e n Aet.
An I."-: r-. rt -om Snn A.'
T'x-x' Naton> .a
f;- d to re' .e' 50 5'o '4
t h u h rt- t -ma
I':ptin ' s, u.. -r -
i
pn th- is n, m
rn t ihr' prr-ent -' -o flet. a
1z tn is e *- on *
timte r Wof"et - w
t-. ie btn n rn
mbiuzxe orcnG numb -
. l 15)' ' C'"
S i, ( lfN. . '
I... . ..en .n er .
dT
d54 t1 1
tiers to Wah-tro -
Fer here 5- t 1 -
Ihe a -gopn -So:t I!-: ''- r .r
\tarathn". Tex s - T ' -
tos 'h: herder toda- 9 m
a17 ordcred to arIn" a' . 1. t
msorrc'n '-4 5 e : r t' 'e - z . :
prob'ably ,raIh Ame-' 'n yT
day.
Tug and Shop
Fired in Strike
Davison Chemical Company
Barges at Curtis Bay. Md.,
Also Cut Loose.
BalIti More. ar av-e -+
part of the stri r a t
facturin, plant of the I-a, Ie
Company has 1 roken out. I ;1'
that a tug ar1d a shop hi-l 1-c:
fire, a rman has been~ Ir ed an.
blionin~g to the ' ompa '' Os
from their moorirgo
Some of the str-iker' u 4 a:.
nn alt:day ret.n:: mn H'-etma llal . a.
Curtis Bay. today miak- pr. i :ea a
further vioh nce. and it 'e :- it at
clash betw-en tihe o sti S 1-' nd I i
20 or moare men stal .5tr li :5, nI u.
come at as time
Germans Insult Americans
London. M1ay 20.-Sire e ti. ;ae:
between Germany and the 1~nard- z'-a I
was ended,.h emn0C eie
unsparing tn most insulting rrit: *1 0' o
America and Americ:sa Not a d
passes without the p'ritlI: ? ofNto
denunciations in the badmng 'al..'
which give great dispia.. toI storag 'm
tended to hold up Anmer an to r..ai
cule.
S32J.A to Chicago and Rejurm.
Etaltimore and Clhio. Jun 54h to
Valid for ret'rt unt45il Art a1rw 5t 1
pubtican National Conv-entiot Four
6Jhroughi trains daily. Ask ager.ta ,..A4Vs
