She
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day, showers to-morrow, north
to northwest winds.
Highest temperature, 66; lowest, 52.
Detailed weather, mall nnd mnrino reports on pate IS,
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 264.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, MAY 21, 1916. Copyright, J&16, bp the Hun Printing and Publishing Association.
62 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
Jtm.
I
IT SHINES FOP ALL
I
175,000 ARMY
BILLPASSEDBY
HOUSE, 349-25
flow (Joes to President
Peace, .Not War 3Ieas
ure, Says Hay.
GAKDXER CALLS IT
FAKE PREPAREDNESS
.tsiltN'trro.v, Mny 10. Hy n vote of
I4D !o I. the Houfo to-ly adopted the
conference report on the nrmy teorgau
Izatlon llll. The Senate adopted tills
confetence report several days ngo and
the hill Ik now ready for the President.
Chairman Hay of thn House Military
Committee asserted that the bill ns
greed upon represented "reasonable
preparedness." Sir, Hay Inveighed
gainst newspaper criticisms of the. bill
nd said It was "useloea to try to en
I glitcn these densely Ignorant newspaper
editors who have been Attempting to
rite this legislation without knowing
anything about It."
Jtepresentatlve Gardner, Republican,
Massachusetts, who made the principal
speech against tho conference report,
hotly averted that tho army bill was a
"pacifist mrtisure."
"It will bo voted for by every pacifist
In the Houc and will meet tho approba
tion of every paclllst throughout tho
country," shouted Mr. Oardner.
'Tor a nation as great ns outs to
upport an nrmy no bigger than we have
to-day." said Mr. Gardner, "Is almost
as sensible as It would be for Ty Cobb
to attempt to hit Walter Johnson's pitch
dig with a sulphur match Instead of a
Int."
"Fake Preparedness."
M Oardner voted against the confer
; report on the ground thtit tho bill
reps 'tented "fako preimredncsa" and
o'.iier Hi-publlcatm took the same view.
The twenty-live members opposing the
i.ifcre-tic report on the llnal vote were:
Rcpubllceins Urltteu, Oardner. Gil
kite, Guernsey, Hadley, Humphreys,
llutted, Johnson, Mann, Morris, Morgan,
Nelson, Piatt, Ilandall, Rogers, Sanford,
Tlnkham, Walsh. Wheeler.
Democrats Buchanan, Johnson,
Thomas. Tavenncr.
Progiesslvc Schall, Minnesota. So
dallst l.oudon. New York.
During the debate Representative
CojiIv lefcrred to published reports of
Jokei' in the bid which provided uti
Ukual qualifications for the appointment
uf ono of tho ntllcera In the Judge Ad
vocate Gcncral'a department. This sec
tion, Inserted in conference, read that
tho appointee must bo front civil llfd
not less than 4o nor more than ii)
)tars of age, who hhull havo beitt
for ten years a Judge of the Supremo
Court of the Philippine Islands, shall
lute served for two years as u captain
In th regular or volunteer army and
hill be proficient In tho Spanish lan
guage and laws."
"Is It proposed that there should be a
Judge Advocate located la the Philip
pines?" asked Mr. Moore.
"No ; theru is one located there," said
Mr. Hay. "1 will say that the provision
was put in tho bill at my request. If
that is what the gentleman deglres to
know."
"Is not this an unusual designation?"
aaifed Mr. Moore.
"Not at all. A large number of Un
niceis In the Judge Advocate General's
lllcc arc civilians and arc appointed
troin civil life," replied Mr. Hay.
"Piia appointee must havu been a
Judtte of tho Supremo Court of the
Pnlilpplncs," said Mr. Moore.
"Ves. and also !v the regular army,"
Mid Mr, Hay.
Representative Coady, interrupting,
eked :
"I would like to know If there Is nny
filth in the report published to-day that
the provision mentioned by the gentle
man from Pennsylvania is designed to
take c.ire of JuiIko Carson of Virginia?"
"It Is," frankly replied Iteprcsentatlve
Hay, "lie is tho only 0110 who can
qualify for the position?"
"I am responsible for that being In
the bill, If that is any satisfaction to tho
gentleman." sharply retorted the chair
man of the military committee, und the
Incident was closed.
In defence uf the conference report
Mr. Hay wild tho nrmy hill provides for
I'MtlO fighting men and that It would
be- Impossible 1 1 enlist u greater number
In times of peace.
A Pence Propimlt Ion.
"This 1r not an emergency bill , it is
not intended us an emergency bill," said
Mr. Hay, "It l.i not Intended to raise
n army for the purpose of posslblo war
with .Mexico or any other Power. It Is
Intended as a peace proposition and no
man who understands the bill or the
situation can counle It with what It must
I"! necessary to do In the event of war
meaning nut In the next few months.
"We havo already on tho statute
books a law authorizing the President to
ralso an army as large as he wants it
We were to go trj war.
"This bill provides as large a stand
ing army as can bn recruited In this
country under the volunteer system. It
provides for training young men ns nfll
crs, for olIH-i-rs reserve corps; It pro
vide for a reserve enlisted corps from
clul life; it provides for a regular re
serve of enlisted men; It authorizes a
nitrate plant; it provide for tho utiliza
tion of Industrial resources In tlnio of
war.
"It provides for the development of
the National rjuard, which means that
In a few jears wo will have t25,000
hien as a reserve, Forty thousand men
bavc applied for membership In the Na.
tlonal Ouard since this bill originally
pasted the House."
BOOM TOPLATTSU URG
Army fltl I Kxpee-teil In llrnw Thou,
and to .Summer i.'n-n ..
If President Wilson signs the Hay
Cliainberlaln army bill It means that
the 12,000 or mora recruits who aro ex
peoted at Platlsbiirg this summer will
receive full expenses for their training
from the Government, Under thn present
aj'stem the men pay for everything
avo equipment, which is loaned by tin,
War Department. The bill pruvides that
uniforms, transportation and camp ex
penses shall be provided the men.
Tlw bill probably will result In greatly
boosting enrnhiieiilN for Dm summer
ciimps. It l.-i estimated that in.ono men
rsn be taken care of in each of the live
H i ainpioenls at l'lattshit-g, ,1 total of
in 'ion, while, the camps at Fort Ogle
thorr. Hlt Lako and other points will
take smaller number.
GERMANS GAIN TRENCH
NEAR VERDUN, BUT FAIL
TO CROSS YSER CANAL
Crown Prince Renews Attack on Dead Man's Hill,
Reaching Second French Line, but Is Driven
Back in Counter Offensive.
Vermf l,Me lieipatch to Tn 8cs.
Paius, May 20 Tho Crown Prince's
forces returned this afternoon to their
efforts to capture lo Mort Homme, on
tho west bank of the Meuse, northwest of
Verdun,
The attack, which was preceded br
artillery fire moro than usually violent,
wac made simultaneously on the whole
sector of tho French front which has
Lu Mort Hommo as Its centre. After ,
flghlug through the rest of the afternoon i
tho Germans were left In occupation of
some elements of French advanced
trenches on the northern slopes of Io
ior-. nomme and to tiie west or moi
height.
Momentary success also was gained by Penetrated to the French second line nnd
the attacking troops east of tho hill, but returned to their own trenches, bringing
the counter attack which the French a few prisoners.
launched all along tho lino Immediately In the Verdun region the French ,
after the first German rush drovo the In-' made repeated attacks against the posl-'
vaders out of tho positions they had'tlcns recently Uken from them on tli ,
gained. Itaucourt-Ksnes road, between Hill 304 j
On the northern slopes and west of the and the llots d'Avocourt. The attacks I
height the German gain was not made i were easily retiulscd.
until tho attack had been repeated time German infantry fire brought down
and ngaln under an extremely heavy tlr-jflve French aeroplanes In the region of
from the French artillery and Infantry. Vallly, east of Solssons, last night.
Finally the attacking waves drove over' The ofllclal statement Issued by the
me nrsi r rencn line ana pusneu on 10
the second line trenches, liut as they
reached the latter they came under so
terrific n, fire from the French "5s and
mitrailleuses that they wavered and fell
back In disorder, at certain points re
taining possession of tho French first
line, on the rest of the line retreating to
their own trenches.
Uerniana Try to Ilend l.lur,
On the west of the front attacked the
German movement was a repetition of
previous attempts to bend the French
lines back In the ravine between I.c
Mort Humme and Hill 304 (through
which runs tho llethlncourt brook) to
make two sharp salients with Hill 304
at the point of one and I.e Mort Homme
at the point of the other as a preliminary
to the capture of both heights and the
beginning of operations against Ksnes
and Hill 310. south of tho village. The
German artillery maintained a terrific
bombardment of the French positions on
Hill 304 nml In tho Avocourt region, to
thn southwest,
Tho communique issued by the War
Ofllco to-night follows:
Northwest of Hoye our artillery can
nonaded enemy provision depots, where
several tires started.
North of Solssons two strong Ger
man reeonnalsanct's were d.spcrsed by
our Are.
In the Champagne a coup dc main en
abled us to ponetrate the opposing lines
northwest of VIlle-sur-Tourbe nnd to
clear a German trench, all the occu
pants of which were either killed or
made prisoners.
On the left bank of the Meuse, fol- '
lowing a bombardment of extreme vio
lence, the Germans directed this after
noon an attack on a wide front on the
whole region of Le Mort Homme. In
the rector oast of 1 Mort Homme the
enemy, who had penetrated momen
tarily our first lines, was driven out
with serious losses by a lively counter
attack by our troops.
In the sector west and on the north
ern slopes of I Mort Homme the
Germans, after a series of fruitless
assaults, which our barrage tire and
" our infantry fire made very costly to
them, were able at the end of the dav
to occupy some elements of our ad
vanced trenches. Some enemy contin
gents which had pushed as far a
our second lines were taken under tho
violent Uro of our cannon and fell back
In disorder, leavins numerous dead on
the Held.
There was great artillery activity In
the courso of the day In the region
of Avocourt and Hill 304.
There was an Intermittent bombard
ment on the right bank tho Meuso
and In the Woevre.
Aviation: One of our automobile
cannon brought down a German aero
plane in the region of Verdun.
The attack on I.o Mort Homme was
one of three German offensive 'move
ments undertaken on tho western iront
'"a""." "r. ?J.r". "'."V"..V..V:. "7 ;
r"'"". ' "a. ;i.,,T.
,ne ou.er u s-. """" -" '" The lino captured, tho correspondents
fln'e north 2 'v es fffre An"" K ""Ml..! 0 yunK but its Impor
freqntly made effort to cross the Yser tn"c" ' descr bed ns being out of all
Canal! and the other agalust the French' Proportion to Its extent, a It nullifies
sailer i In the Somme-Py sector of Cham-. ,l10 v-tn'' ot P""1" " f
ssiifin 111 mi. osiiii". mans held there. The roinmatiders give
,"l."' .v,. v... ft,i I unstinted praise to the sappers who
ino 7 ",;,", a ,;, ;
I.,,.,: mv..neni oirnlnHt
was
Sas
In nil the German movements against
Calais, it broke down under the Urltlsh
artillery and rlllo tire.
In tlvo Champagne movement the of
fensive did not get beyond tho prelimi
nary stages, owing to the flro barrier
thrown out by the French artillery. The
Germans began their preparations by
discharging dense gas clouds on the St.
Hllalre-St. Houplet and the Soualn-Sommc-Py
roads. Infantry were ready
to attack under cover of the gas, but
were unable to leave their trenches.
Dunkirk nnd Horgues, immediately to
the southeast, were bombarded by Ger
man aviators last night, nix persons, In
cluding a woman, being killed and thirty
eight wounded. French aviators In re
prtsal bombarded encampments behind
the German lines.
The Afternoon Communique.
The afternoon communique was as
follows :
In Ilelglum groups of enemy troops
attempted to cross tho Yser Canal be
tween Stcenstracte and I let Sas. They
.nere checke-d by infantry and artillery
tire.
In Champagne the Germans dis
charged dense clouds of gas along our
front on tho road between St, Hilalrn
and St. Souplet and on the Soualn-Somm-Py
Itoad, Our curtain of fire
made It Impossible for tho enemy to
launch an attack which ho had pre
pared. West of the Meus there was a vio
lent bombardment during the nlsht
against our positions between the HoIb
de Avocourt and Le Mort Hommo.
There was no Infantry attack.
In tho Vosgcs an attack was made
on one of our small listening posts.
Sub-Lieut'. Navarre brought down
yesterday his eleventh Gorman nero
plane. It fell within our lines at
Chattancourt, Hnd the two occupants
were captured. Another German nero
Idane wns attacked by Sub-Lieut.
Nungessen nnd crashed down In tho
Hers forest. It w.ih thn fifth nero
plane brought down by this oltlcer.
Thne- oilier German aeroplanes were
hit by our lire and were seen to fall
vertically In the German lines.
Gei man aviators during the night
tlnew many bombs on Dunkirk and
llergurs. At Dunkirk a woman wsa
killed and twenty-seven persons
were wounded. At llcrgucs live per
sons were killed and eleven wounded.
In reprisal a French squadron set
forth immediately to bombard enemy
cantonments ut Wywegc, Zarrcn and
Handsnenw. A llelglan squadron
bombarded the aviation establishment
at Uhlstelles. Tho greater part of the
bombs reached their mark.
FRENCH LOSE HEAVILY.
prn Tells of Attack and Hetlre.
..,.,. .. .
meat with I rlaoner.
ntnuN, via London, May 20. Mines
were exploded In tho Argonne Inst night,
causing neavy losses to tho Krcnch. Fol-
(lowing the explosions. German patrols
.icnuan general neauquariers (ins alter-
noon follows:
In the Argonne German patrols
penetrated the enemy's second line '
after a few explosions. They observed ,
.explosions. They observed ,
'A M Sn.an2nrZd.!,. ,J3
great losse
the enemy's positions nnd returned
with a few prisoners.
Itepeated attacks upon our newly
gained positions on both sides of tho
Haucourt-lsncs high road were again
easily repulsed.
Five enemy neroplanes were brought
down, one by our Infantry lire south
east of Vallly, the other four In nerlal
battles near Aiibrevllle on the juth
ern edge of the Hessen Wood near
Avocourt and due east of Verdun.
Our aviators attacked enemy ships
on the Flanders coast, enemy shelters,
the aerodrome and railway station
near Dunkirk, nnd military establish
ments at St. Pol. nlxmudc. Poperinghe
Amiens, t'lialoii." mid Suhppes. with
good results.
MINE CRATER RETAKEN.
lleijiet North Lancashire Drive
1, t , , u n. - . . ,n. 1 1 I 1 1 U .
have It drummed Into them that the one
Sftmil Cable Uttpatck to Ins sin. , a(m !n )fo Is , mal;f. m0iHy, Hence
Iainios', May 20. A charge of the over .vender It would attract no panic
Itoyal North Lancashire Ilegiment, one ular attention when a ilrndiv epidemic
of the best known Hrltlsh units, re- ragew if pretty and elegant young girls
suited In tho recapture from the Oer-1 unould converse charmingly with their
minu ef tliM rriilpr nf a mine on the ,., ,l,.nnA .,lrt,,i ,V. KHllu
" - - - .
Vlmy lUd. which whh lost by the Crtt-1
The following official statement was ,
Issued to-night
After a heavy bombardment the en
emy made a raid on our line south
west of laws. Tho enemy entered our
front trench, but was driven out Im
mediately. The enemy also attempted
to rush a jost northwest of Wleltje,
but was .driven back.
The Hoyal North Lancashire Ilegi
ment recaptured a crater on Vlmy
HIJko which the enemy captured from
us on Thuisday,
To-day there was considerable ar
tillery activity at various points on our
front, principally In the Souchez re
gion ami northeast of Fauqulssart.
We blew up a mine In the Hultuch
sector and occupied the crater.
The weather again favored flying
yesterday and much successful work
was done. There were thirteen com
bats In the air. In the courso of which
two hostile machines were brought '
down behind the enemy's lines.
BRITISH SHOW VALOR.
far outstripped Its original teachers, 'hu
Jlne-h Importance Atlnelies tn ( up-, Kngllsh. In Its soulless greed and al
. , , . mighty hypocrisy."
inre I t ralers. n..!i .itl.irks. tinwnoar nr. ttrt, II.mIia.i
-li'cial Cable DttfUrh to Tur. Sc
IvON-noN, May 20. The correspondent!
of thn London newspapers attach Im
portance to tho capture of the German
witers on tho crest of Vlmy
Itldgo on
.May IS, already ofllclaliy announced.
,Wc up tho cinter fronts and to the
Cashlre fillers who stormed the crater.
The fighting was extremely desperate
nnd both tildes suffered severe losses,
although the Kngllsh correspondents s.iy
the German losses were the greater. The
Germans held the position very strongly
and few of them escaped.
Gen. Hnlg has since reported that the
.Germans have reenptured two craters,
und It Is recognized Here, as it was
rc vgnlzed a while ago at Wt, i:io, that
the holding of these positions Is mora '
dlfllcult than their capture. The Ger
mans apparently are making efforts to
recapture the whole position. The cor
respondent! say that whatever tho out
come the action was notable and valuable
in giving tho Urltlsh a sense of personal
dominance over the enemy.
U-18 TORPEDOED THE SUSSEX.
rnmiunniler Wa Lieut. Otto Stein
brink Punishment I'ndlscloaed.
Wasiiinoton, May 20. The United
States Government has been ofllclaliy
advised that the commander of the Ger
man submarine which torpedoed the .
Stissev was Lieut, Otto Stelnbrlnk and
that his boat was the U-18.
This Information, which tho State De-
partment sought to obtain from Ambas
sador Gerard In llerlln, has reached lure
from mio of the Fntente Governments.
There Is an unconfirmed report that
Lieut. Rtelnbrluk has been dropped for
his action tn torpedoing the Sussex.
According to the State Department, no
word has come from Mr, Gerard In reply
to Secretary Lansing's cablegram tiat
he ascertain the exact nature of the
punishment which Germany meted out
to Lieut. Stelnbrlnk.
ENGLAND GAINS AN HOUR.
Clark .Set Ahead at 3 This Morn
ing, London Time.
Special I able DenpateS tn Tur. Si v.
London, May 21 t Sunday, 3:17 A. M,).
The experiment of "daylight saving"
Is now an accomplished fact. The clocks
were set ahead an hour at 2 o'clock this
inoinlng nnd Great lliltaln will awake,
this morning tn Und the clock ahead of
the sir)! by that Interval. I
GALL U. S. THE HOME
OF SUPERHUCKSTER
Gorman Papers Picture Amer
icans ns Mowing Down to
God of Greed.
GUESTS IN GALOSHKSi
'Volkszeitunjr" Ridicules lie-1.
. . , n .
ceptions Given by Princes ,
Of FitintlCe. i
f penal Cable Dttpatth to Tns Scn i The principals concerned In the
London, Mny 20. Since the last crlsHj Thompson legislative committee's In
between Germany and the United Rtntes vesication of telephone wlro tapping
was ended the German press has been look advantage of yesterday's lull In the
unsparing In criticisms of America and committee's activities to catch up with
Americans. Not a day passes without J tho rapid developments of tho last few
the printing of denunciations In the 'days. Senator Thompson touched off
leading papers, which give great display i
V'. v" ' :"'
"""""cn wnicn appear in ne imenncu u. ,
hold up Americans to ridicule. 1
The II timburger Xnchrichtrn tells the
following Incident to exhibit tho tier-
' , " , , ' . ' icr
1 ' oll,a whlch l !,,,m,0-"cd to '"ve
seized tho American mind : '
"Messrs. Weydekamp Kettllng .t Co. of
Iserlalm had written comiililnlnir of the
,r"m" nu written complaining or me
non-recelpt of certain publications. The
following reply was received:
. ';ncln,!,;ll ' a n.ec0UM' '"r tT.p?
i .
vemn f.w m
'now falls duo for your subscription
' . lo March. . livery
,f" "- " ' " 'K,'"'f,,XJ i i ;,V"e
ff"".. 8 " rtl).ilil Is becau-e
" '"'ri"L1Sl'n:1nib vJrr 'lo wh Investigating the police super-I
"YoVllater'laySclm.vlMon of the Seymour wires, the police
- against the
Kaiser. We take no re-'
1
i sponslblllty."
i.rrmans Indlannnt
The German firm replied:
" 'Vour reply Is n piece of shameless '
Impertinence. v request you not to
connect your failure to deliver goods
ordered with German submirlncs. In-
stead we advise you to tak action
ne.iln't your friends the Hngllsh. whom
you auow io uo as mey lihe Willi vour
mulls, I
'"In tho circumstance we decline to .
pay you a cent, If you want your money
ask the dirty souled Hrltons to pav vou
nn our behalf Prnv do not send u' anv ,
more of your publication. We shall de- i
cllne to receive them henceforth"
The Cor(nli Jie Volk;rttunn prints ,
nnother example of the attacks on
America which are becoming a matter j
of dally occurrence. It s.iyt:
"From tendeiest chllilliood Aimrlcns
I'liiitiiip a, .a. .aitii, .tuviv t,,v Ulltll.lliv
lovolnpmont of t!io rufTIn Industry.
r. ,.f rnffin to.aL. i
erH wno ein,ny utilize the occasion to in-
troduce some good stroke of bu"!nei".
"Withal the capitalistic would. !..
aristocracy Is notorious for Its bad taste.
For Instance, It Is quite ii common o.--currence
for the wife of some prince of
finance to receive her guects In ball
costuinn while they themselves move
about through her splendidly furnished
nnd decorated salons hat In hand and
clad In galoshes and furs.
reininirrrlallsiii Itnles,
"Amerlcani hnve no desire to partlcl- i
pate in the world war Their ambitions
are In the direction not of military but 1 offices and for entering tho offices for
I of commercial success, tho enple lin- the purpose of getting papers to sub-
derstandlng that thes,- only are possible stantlate the theory that somu one in
since they have hud the unque.ituiablc the Seymour office was acting in eul
supreniaey of Germany over all her foes luslon with some one In th" employ of
undeniably
demonstrate-d by the final
victory.
?na,t being the case it i fervently
,n 1,on"11 that the Government will
lMihii' no moro urn lion paper on nm
for presentation at the feet of the chief
nation of superhuckstershlp, which has
to Germany, The London Dally Sketch
to-day iievoies us enure iront page 10
an American mission visiting Ihe battle-
fields. The photographs of the memln-i.e
of the mission are accompanied by the
following lines In large dlspl.iy tvp:
"To the Allies this war Is a battle be-
twceti the principles of Christianity an 1
i-lvlllzatlon nud the gospel of th,. Hun
brute force backed up by science, Wn
believe that we are flg-itlng not only '
for ourselves but also for tho rest of.
the civilized world.
"America still stands outside. Many
of her sons aie lighting for us and many
or her naiigniers are lending nur
wounded, but as a nation the t'nl'e.l
States remains neutral. Iter Govern
ment sends a mission to look at tho
battlefields which uro our sacred burial
grounds.
Future Americans win ne aliameil
that their fathers were not In this fight
Thousands and thousands aro thinking
this to-day.
O'SHAUGHNESS HEIR BORN.
, , 1 iiin.i , .. . .
"""""represented th
a Few Weeks Aitei. agents of J
Moxtbka!.. Canada. May JO A son Seymour quoted a passage 1. on a reply
was l-irii In London yesterday to the "' l1','' cr2 t,,al Sua""
widow of rapt Alfred T. O'.Shaughnessy, 1 Produced In vvlil- h S"n.our .-. mour
t itiiiiL'iimauv 'Vti.ld tie Humboldt 1 Ibro Company thn
1 Cint O'Shaughnesry was killed In the 'ltions supply iiiauiifacturers in tho
I a fri ' ,! ,h9; .'..so-that they "never so icp.csented or
" .Intimated In any way directly or liidl-
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SEVEN SECTIONS
AS FOLLOWS t
pii
FIRST
SECOND
Gtnrrtl Newi
Sporting, Kennels.
sporting, Nen
Automobile! ,
THIRD Society. Drm. Fah
ioni, Reiortt, Muiic
FOURTH Pictorial Magazine . ,
FIFTH Specal Ftaturei, Books.
Queries. Chess . . .
SIXTH -Foreign, Schools. Gar- "
dens, Poultry, Finan
cial, Problems , , 8
SEVENTH-Rn Estate ... 4
Total
. 62
Rttitn tr ntuiitaltti if Ao Jo not re
itltt all of thtte Mtthm will confer a
fetor on " Tht Sun" ly nollfylnt the Pui
littttan Dtpartmtnt at oner ty tht phom
(2200 Bttkman) and mlnlnt itdtoni
uiUb promptly ftrttviU tj pouiUt.
THOMPSON DROPS
WIRE TAP INQUIRY
Moss, Counsel to Committee,
However, Says Ho Is Go- .
'"g Ahc"'1,
CASE LEFT WITH SWAXX
W.imiN.iToN, May 20. i:crybody
Says It Is Seymour's iNextjBll anybody m pontics in wasn-
, ,
Move, but He Declines
to Make It.
another fusillade of statements before tho I
,', -
m i i iur .aioany at noon. inn omers
Involved In the case, departing from the
city for the week end, left promises that '
Indicated developments this week which
""e'oi'tnents tnis yr wnicn
may pale the occurrences of the week ,
Just past.
United States Attorney Marshall, en-'
larging upon his .tatement that the '
i.irMnt. upon ins fllattmeni inn me
Oovernmcnt was Interested In the clr-
cumstances growing out of the tapping .
"t the te.lcphono wlr.s of Seymour & i
w'. 1............ I.. .t. t.i. .
V. , ' ....u..-u.
ulld.ng. asserted yesterday that al. ,
s'1 "lc "Jovernnienv nan noming io
lo lnVestlgntliig the police super- I
in me coursv or meir investigation ac-
..l.tntit.. 1! i I, ml HiHiail it,. ii'li1..twA fif
'lnif.ipfiiii. la. II... i.'.lnril until, irltlna
Importance to tho Federal authorities.
lleyond that, however, he would not say
more.
It was leartiod from other sources I
'hat tho police investigation oaseil on
the Information that United States At-
tomey Marshall referred to Is progress-
'"g atld that the police still hope to ap-
prclwnd the i.erson or persons sus-
i"-i-o. .n. ..tuio.,,, ,..
Seymour Seymour was not Involved.
Deputy . Police Commissioner Scull Is
conducting the Inquiry for the Police
Department. It concerns an alleged
shipment or Intended shipment of arms
-Mexico, but It Is Impossible to learn
anything moro about tho cae at this
t"r"?, . ....
H-eloin t In thr Inar.
The other lU'Veloi inents In the wire
tapping Inquiry esterday were these;
Senator Thumnsun hid scarcely fin
ished bie.ikfat at his hotel before he
h.id lestmivil his controversy with the
city ailmlntttralloii over the tapping of
thu Seymour telephone. Ho charged
that the .Mayor had become overexcitid
and "told a lot of things that did nut
happen." He maintained that tho Sey-
-
mnir wlrrs wrc uii'U folly In tli-
interest of J. P. Moig.ui .V Co. and un-
Justlllatiiy
so. He still lnstte-el that
theie! were no national Interests in
volved. As to the committee-' future
, course in wire tapping, he said that
matter was uij lo the D.stiict Attorney,
tli.it ho would bear the -Major on Tues
day If Mr. Mltcliel presented himself,
1 but would not call him.
District Atteune Swunti on the ott.ftr
' hand said lie had received no Informa
tion that the cummitlre Intended to drop
the wire tapping Itiquuy. Tho Dllstrlcl
i Atturn. j added that Frederick Seymour
hint ihrif time" demurred from pressing
a complaint against William .1. Hum
r(M- nlai iug a dictagraph in the Seymour
J. P. Morgan .V; Co, to get secret infor
mation on war orders. Mr. Seymour,
said .Indue Swriiiu. Is the only man , the selection of Senator I larding ;i.s per
who c in lodge ,1 i-oinplaliit In the case, j manetit chairman They wii present a
Frank Moss, counsel to the 1 hompson
O'lnmltwe-, said emphatically that the
minlttee was not throiiill with tne
win- tapping Investigation, although he
knew of no pii concerted plan of thu
committee for this coming wiek The
committee, he sud, old not leei onu-
gated by anv agieement last week to
can iii"o ioe ,n.ij'i 1-, i'-.uj
da. Mayor .Mil-hel, however, who went
"' 0shen without itpiylng to anything
"lo committee said, has announced that
if the true facts of tho wire tapping
connection with the recent charities
Investigation do not come out thiough
the Thompson lonimlttce they will come
"ul some, other wav.
Se-jinour 'IIiIiiMuk II rr.
1'udeilck Seuioiir of the firm of Sev-
mmir .c- Sevmoitr Is taking the week end
, decide what course he will pursue In
view of the ivideiicii presented to the icr ror i.ick or uuemion. u is under
Thompson committee on Friday about stood here that Flank II. Hitchcock,
the activities of the Hum men In the I"V. Whitman and other Republicans of
llim's offices It Is e-ntliely probablu .
tl at ho will resort to civil pioceslure ' " "
He told Tin: Si'V yesterday tint he did
not Intend to take any union th.it would
give tiie Hums agitny any undue nd-
vi 1 Using
T,e e lder Mr Seymour also wrote .1
biter to Judge iswann cstcrday after-
noon taking Issue with the District At
t'iney's staiteuient that war agents in
the ofllces of Seymour & Seymoui- had
mselves as conildentlal 1
' Morgan tt i'o. Mr,
icctly anil were 111 tact not repic
lldcnthiY'or'o.h C"" j '! ifrUtcd Cubans to lynch Al-
"In so far ns tho taking of the inltla-1 ,"'rt ill'- n" American racer, to-day
tlve In the Seymour c.ise," said District ' after his car bad collided In an aufnmo
Attorney Marshall, "there was no Fed-lhll race with that of Maximo Ilenera, a
trill Interest. The po e-e became Inter- ., , , 1 ,1
csted because of the allege.,! theft off vM lrlv,'r' wl, Was r,,Knr,,f 1 " "
papets In which the Federal aiitliorltieH ! raclnl hero In Havana. Herrera was
had no Jurisdiction, Then the pollen
stumbled across Information which thev
thought would bo of Interest to the Fed
ernl authorities' I cannot discuss that
of course.
"I cannot say whether the Informs-
tlou obtained was forwarded to Wash-1
Ington. 1 can sav. linwttvur iVtttt tinlfh.,,.!
the Seymours nor any one connected
wnti ineir omco was involved In any
way. About fifty persons have como to
me with the story that a German army
olllcer posing as a Russian was divert
Ing ammunition to Mexico. Tho fact
that a person wwild lako the troubln
to come 10 me would Incline me to make
an Investigation. Hut 1 may say that
I do not believe that nny considerable,
amount nf ammunition was diverted to
Mexico."
Senator Thompson expressed freely hU
opinions of the Mayor and every one
else who had Inlcrposed views on thn
committee's investigation In the last few
days,
"This talk nbout national and Intern i
tlonal Issues involved in tho wire tap-
Continued on'lxli Page.
HUGHES LEADS THE RACE,
WITH T. R. LOOMING UP,
IS VIEW IN WASHINGTON
Re)ort Is gpread That a Favorite Son Will Throw 100
Delegates to Justice Opponents Bank on Lack
of Cohesion in
" "ion conceded to-day that tho c cc-
,l0 ot j,UBhr, ,., " ovt.r
,h r,,ur,wn,atle.s of Senator Cummins
anci ex-sknator Ilurton goes a long way
toward assuring the nomination of
Justlco Hughs ns the Republican candi
dal., for the Presidency.
At the samo time certain k-aders feel
that there Is grave danger to the
Hughes movement In the recrudesccnco
of tin, Itoosovclt boom. As the pre-con-
venllon contest enters Its final stage the I
favorltu son group of candidates and the I
KmW u. u.w.
suK)rtf rs of Mr. Hoosevelt find u com- i
n.on ground on which to wage battle
'I hey ore handed together to "stop"
"Khes If postlble. 'i
accomplished It Is the be-
,,, ,)f , fnvoHtp lmM t,mllone ot ,..
number w ill land the prize. Friends of
Mr. Hoosevelt are convinced that If the
Hughes boom Is sidetracked the ex-'
chosen Admissions are i
mn,i0 ,,y
n, ,y it0f.velt men In Washington
that at this time It looks as If Justice!
'tiMi.nn. ii.'iff mini mm nrn.i nil rKianhArnnru
-
am that his nomination Is non a cer- (
within' the tVxt few dayi
vor.te sons, who Isconc
In fact there was a report to-day that .
within the twt few days one f the fa-!
conceded to have a
lid soon announce Ills with-
( "r:,,w" rrnm ",p rare ,n '"or
,Jlughes.
dr.'lWal
PlKlit HHlnst llnichr.
Despite developments favorable
Despite developments favorable to
Hughes the favorite sons nnd Itoose-
pp; adherents nre fighting desperately
t U,.M t)rf (. Associate Justice. Within
,u, ,,.,t W(.t.k ,.mssiirleH of the former
President have been busy canvassing the
unlnstructed delegates and similar work
. has been done In behalf of the favorite
sons.
Kach side thinks there l a fighting
chance to snatch victory at thn last
moment, although one of the favorite
ons Is boldly bidding for the Vice-Presidency
on a ticket with Hughes and
another seriously contemplates with
drawing with tho announcement that for
' the sake of party success all Republi
cans should get behind Hugh.").
It became known here to-day that op
position will be Interposed to the plan
of the favorite sons lo make Senntor
Harding peimaueut as well as tempo
ral chairman of the Chicago conven
tion. Mr Harding was chosen for tho
latter office by the National Committee
In accordance with custom. The con
vention elects the permanent chairman.
In a close fight the rulings of the
permanent chairman may be for one
side or another and Mr Harding is gen
erally credited with be ng an opponent
of Justice Hughes There is another
reason why the regulirs desire to have
Senator Harding o-cupy the chair
throughout the convention. They are
looking Into the future .ind sco the pos
slbllltles for a "dark horse."
if the favorite soils aro compelled to
go outside the field they would piefer
Mi-. Harding above anybody else As
the occupant of the chair. Mr Harding,
who is a forceful man. would be in a
pidtIon lo Impiess Ii'.k peisonality on the
dc.egatei.
.
HfTort lo nini'U HtirillnK.
There Is authority for the statement
that thosi Interested In furthering tho
Hughes movement will not countenance
I candidate to whom ti ) objection can b
inadu on fact.nnal grounds Among those
ment'.oiieil ore Senator Lodcn of M is:i-
' . (ui'-ctts nd Senator lloral. nf Idaho,
, Fre-di rick ". s-li-vens of St Paul, who
1 ..- v id In Coiicrei-s for twenty ears, has
,. also suggested as einliiently nim;.
ned to till the post Kx-Gov. Dudley of
.Missouri may a. i-ousiofreu,
l,, estimating the chances f one or
1 the other of the t.ivorlte sons spokesmen
,f this group iiislst that nh.le Hughes
has an nvjsirent advantage I.e may lose
thiough the lack of a cohesiv,. org.inUa-
tion. ( i pointed out that In a body
, -MKV as the Chicago convention .1
roiniuiitiun may be lost If the forces
' seeming!)- in tho majority are not prop-
,.ry dim-ted.
Leaders concerned In the Hughes cau'o
Insist that his Interests will be properly
cared for at Chicago and will not suf-
CUBANS TRY TO LYNCH
AMERICAN AUTO RACER
1 inl-M'lll('11('P );V .Mllll't'll l)V
.
I.t'iiilis' nml liiot at Itiicp-
track in Havana.
sii-ci.i table Veipateh to Tur Sis
II.eveNA. Mav 10 An ntteinnt was
killed In the accident.
The unveiling of a monument to the
liegro leader, flen. Miceo, to-day, which
was celebrated ns the fourteenth anni
versary of Cuban Independence, Is be
lieved to have undulv enthused the
, negroes and led to the talk of lynching.
Tho races were held at tho Havana
racetrack. Herrera, who recently won
the Guanajay nuto race, was piloting
a Stutz car and Gulllot. tho American,
was driving a National. As a result of
the collision Gulllot finished second
The rage of tile negroes was so pre it
that tho runileH and police reserves were
Cailled out to protect the American driver
. During the races one civilian was kllloj
while crossing the tracks as ,1 irsult i
deficient police service.
In celebration of the anniversary nf
thn Inception of Cuban liberty a mili
tary p.ir.nle In which 1,000 soldiers aul
sailors marched ,is held, and tlnie wa
also a display ot llievvorks,
To-night the negroe were still angrily
talking ot lynching Gulllot.
His Campaign.
Hughes Sweeps Oregon;
Gets 10 Pledged Votes
PORTLAND, Ore., May 20.
Lnto returns to-night indi
cated that Justice Chnries Evnns
Hughes received more votes than
Albert h. Cummins of Iowa and
Theodore E. Burton of Ohio com
bined in yesterday's Republican
preferential primaries in Oregon.
Test returns Rive Hughes, 26,
284; Cummins, 11,984; Burton,
5,181.
Hughes supporters made prac
tically no campaign, but the Jus
tice will havo ten votes pledged
to him in tho national convention.
Roosevelt polled less than 100
votes. His name was not on the
ballot, but was written in, ns was
the name of Henry Ford.
Congressman C. N. McArthur
has been renominated probably
by more than 4,000 mnjority. He
has been in Congress only since
last December, while Lafferty,
his opponent rved two terms.
He was defeated by VcArthur
for the renomination in 1914.
This was his answer to Col. Itoosevclt's
prominence Intend to pitch camp at Chi- , insistent cry for Americanism, nnd the.
rfrXim. ,'W" M """ "f"r rol",J
gates. Mr. Hitchcock was In Washing- TPlnnse and cheers as he laid down
ton to-day In conference with leaden, the high Ideals for which he would have
from various State-. He will go to Chi- this counliy strive.
cago the latter part of next week. ...... , , ...
Hoosevelt supporters In Washington' I his country has devoted practically
se only an outside chance for the former a'' ' attention in past jears to the
President. It Is generally accepted here material side of Its life," he said. Then
I loVinvenJln,, W1,,,U",.,,r, .choic" of '""N"'1 tor a coordination and cooper
me convention, sonin Progressives sue-
gesl that Itooevelt will be nominated by Mlm of m,er ' ; for ',rl,, tn ,,m sl'lrU
the Progressive convention whatever the "hlch "prompts the world to get together
a. t;on of thn Republicans. Few leaders it terms of cooperation nnd peace "
'vr'ZW ri-'o"" "enl
referred to the great power of America
Mlltuili- of I tie "oiitlirrnero. .itnong tuitions and asked if this was
The solid South will be represented
at Chicago by about 27a delegates.
Mutt of them will 1:0 imlnsti-o'tAai 1
Southern leader said to-day that a
majority of 'he deleg.ites from the South
are disposed to favor lluithe. on the
theory that h looks like a winner, but 1
that they have leen dissuaded from 1
making a choic.. through fear that thev 1
may make a mistake.
It is known that many of 'he Sr-adi. '
ern ii ieaat-s favor I -Illiti Hoot and that
more would fl(-k to his standard If ,
ih.-y could be shown that he had a ncht-
1,,.. .1, rs,,
delecat.s In nearly even- Southern '""Vlons llko tnl" tnk' i-ounn.-! to
group, H conceded by thn managers of B.""'r r'Knr 10 J11"1 ul,'lt ' lH
the favorite son. ' ,lm w wM tu celebrate.
In a statement made public here to- ....
day Representative KcKlnley of Illinois, I.ooWIii Into Hit- I'o.t.
a Sherman supporter. ald that the Con- , "Vou will say we wish to celi bi.it the
tli. t between the Hughes and Itoose- memories of that time to whii h eve lool-ve-lt
Candida. Ic might result in tho 1 back w ltd such pride, when our fathci -nomination
of a middle Western man. with singular wisdom of i-ouri- l um..
Tnkln; occasion to boost Senator She-r- , "toutness of heart, undertook to set up
man, Mr. MrKlnUy said: , an independent nation 011 tin-, side i f
It seems to tne there is a very v. 1 th water; but It is very much more 1111
oroiis struggle going on at this time ' portant that we should remind ourselvi i
be'ween the New ork headquarters of , of the element w,th which our fore
the HurIics movement and the mn fathers dealt
actively promoting the Interests of i-. ..T,,r). WPr on)v .-..ooo.OO.l citizens v
t .vtn 1 "'i'''1'0,1!':1, 1,1 react to tlio'tHat orU.ln:1 .,h,. f ,), t n,.,,
nis ttvaiiaoiiuy on other grounds Is right
now attracting the iurt s.-rlous atte-1-
Hon of political leaders throughout tho
country
"Senator Sherman's tight against 'pork
band' legis) nlon h.es aroused the coun
try to his mettle as a statesman and o
his militant Integrity of purpose. Tin)
party leaders realize that a pilme essen
tlal In the next campaign is to have at llt,:'' heglnniug and that there have al
the head of the ticket a man who cm 1 lhl' 'am" dements in the
take the slump day nnd night ami cover process.
eveiy section of the country. "A' t1"' outset there was In t'le hems
"There is none better equipped for fns of wno ,n" niovenieit for
task than Senatoi Sherman. 1 think it independence a very high and handsome
proper at this time to mention the abovo pas-Ion for human liberty and fie,- 111
as among tint reasons which of late are ' slltutlons. And yet there lay bef.ic them
concentrating sentiment In favor of the , 11 gf'.it continent which it was neees
candldate for President t be presented ""' ,- subdue to the uses of ,1 Li
lly Illinois." tlon If fiey were go.ng to tiu. l upon l;
1 a gteat Suite among thr tnmlly of ra
rni-imnn w nnm 1 .-ns . 1 "I heard 1 preacher once point out
DOCTOR LOST MEMORY
Hon for 'our dally bread,' from which
ftw wv (v Mfunrukip ,,r,,w " i"',",nco that u u vi-r
UII UlU Ur lYCULIlWu 'ill,l0,llt tl1 TMV Hod on an unity
stomach and that the material founda-
lfct'ovcrs in lisit'iisary IIito
Sas He Was Thrown '
I'rnni A 11 to.
Or. I'rcemAn S, O'Hrlen of W.ip-
plngers Falls, who disappeared on the1
eve of his marriage to MKs Agnes Olive ,.;h(t m, ,hat. but. my fi lends, th'tre have
T'uitnlns, daughter of a retired Pough- , been other nations Just as re !i nnd Juft
let-e.e, N Y., nierchiint, was found In as powerful In .Minparison w l-.h the nt'ie
thn Denillt Dispensary on Hast Twenty- nations of the woild as the l'i. ted Stale.
third sfeet yf"leid.iy ! is, and it is 11 grc.it deal more mpor
Dr. T J Kearns, he.ul of the ills-I tant that vie shuiild determine what we
pensary, said that Dr. O'Hrlen, who was are going to do with our power 111.111 thai
suffering from amnesia as the result of we should possess It.
ft blow on the head, cai.ie to the dlspen-I "You must remember, tnetefore. the
siry last Monday In a dazed condition, elements with win. h wo are dealing
Dr. O'llrlcn's brother-in-law, John H. 1 Sometimes those of us who weie born in
O'Hrlen, was notified. A message was thU part of the country persuade our
als sent to MIsh Tlmmlns, hut sho nnd selves fhat this Is the characteristic p-irf
her mother had gone on a Southern trip, of America. Here mor.. than anywhere
Dr O'Hrlen recovered full conscious-I elso has been preserved .1 greit part of
ness Friday. He told Dr Kearns that ' the original stock which settled tn this
ho had been driving an automobile along I country, particularly that portom of 1.
11 country road outside Poughkeepele stock which came from t m 1 tr t'sh Isles
when the car skidded. He applied the (I am not meaning to include Ireland)
brakes quickly and the car swerved Into. "I find a great many of my friends
the gutter, throning him to the road. He I who live in New Cngl.iuil Imagining that
got up In a dazed condition nnd stepped 1 the history of this country is merely the
back Into the car That was tho last 1 lilstoty of the expansion o' New l.r.n
tluiig lie remembered. : land and Pint I'lvinoiith Rock lies At
Dr. Kearns said last night that the the foundation of our Instil itmni.
patient's flrt Inquiry had been after Miss "As a maitei of f -t, mi tell.-iv cltl
Tlmmlns. Ho suffered a relapse caused ' reus, however mutt f.v ng 11 may ho to
by shock when he realized that his wed-1 them or lo us, Ainerici did not , -Hue ou'
ding ilay had passe.1 and that he had
dleappeared in an unaccountable manner.
"Hut 1 understand," ventured Dr.
KeaniH, "that Dr O'llrlcn's sister, Mrs.
John 1!. O'Hrlen. Ins In en In communica
tion with Miss Tlmmlns and that the
marriage will take nlace at an early
1 date."
AMERICANISM
WITHOUTTAINT,
Asks if America Is to Use
Its Power for Foicc
or Peace.
TIME TO MOVE TO END
WAK MAY BE NEAR
Sonic Men in the ilopubli
can Party Looking Back
ward, lie Assorts.
; CROWD OF 35,000
i (t MEETS PRESIDENT
Appeals lor Pure Patriot
ism at the 3Ieckk,nburr
Celebration.
ciuni-orrr, N. C May :o. Spe-akln
before a great crowd gathered here to
i eclebrato the 141st anniversary of the.
' signing of the Mecklenburg Declaration
of Independence, President Wilson
' pleaded to-day for an "untainted Ameri
canism." to be used In aid of foice or peace.
the President was clieered tor five
minutes when Gov. Craig of North Cam-
Una Introduced him. The crowd, num
bering about 3.'.00o, was impatient to
hear him, and when Mayor Knkpatrick
had consumed twenty minutes "u Intro.
diicliu the introducer of the President
there were loud cries of "Sit down!
The President said:
"I do not know, my fellow tizen.
whither I can Interpret for you to-d.iv
the spirit of this occasion. Iur .' I-
neces.sary wnen we gel togetnar in ce'e-
V , i o- -
frUml change, separa es us iron, t ,a
- note, au.i ei 1 tMiuoi leiouiu .vou mat
1 file same elements were present then
I that are present now
-venal iniereis my tnouchts mor
than anethlug ilsn about tiie I "nu.-'l
States Is that It has alwajs been m
process of being made evei hiuco tlvei
Hons of our life am tho tlrot foundi
How. "What 1 want to tall your attention
to Is that tins country ever since thai
time him vlevoted practically all of lt.t
attention, perhaps too much of its at
tention, 10 tho iuateil.il foundation o
its life: to subduing this continent to tin
uses of the nation and to tho building
up of a great body of wealth nnd ma
terial power,
"1 Und some men who. when thej tl 1
...It A.n..l... ,1,. ,,,, .I.I..I, ..r
il of tho South, and 11 tint not 1 nine out of
New Hngland
The chnra t'nstle p
iicnci
o e iv
originated In t o- M ' He
York and PetmsylvT 1 li
beralise then- f - mi 1 lie
mixture of population 1
racial stock.-, '. ..t ... .'
tt
i
1
