LlZONA REPUBLICAN
I 1 1 tli
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
22 PAGES
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
22 PAGES
PHOENIN, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, MAY 21, 1916
VOL. XXVIL, NO. 3
HURL GERMAN
FUDT SOLDIERS
flGAINSTFRENCH
4
EIGHTEEN ARE KILLED
IN TORNADO VISITING
TEXAS AND OKLAHOMA
PENSIONS TO BE
LESS THIS YEAR
WASHINGTON, May 20. Pen-
i sions'will cost the American peo-
! pie six million dollars less this
i year than last under the annual !
I Tension hill, as required today by j
I the appropriations committee. The j
total is fl5, 065,000, two and a
half millions less than the esti-
mates submitted. Pensions paid i
; under a recent special act creat- I
Inst an army and navy medal roll
of honor will come out of the
i general fund. The country an-
. 1 nual pension budget bus decreased
lear iieniian LrencD lv a ! i steadily smce mt when it
reached a high mark of $174, I
000,000.
After Period of Inactivity
by Infantry Around Ver
dun, Germans io Against
French in Le Mort Homme
Region
PENETRATE LINKS
but Driven back'
Surprise Attack and All
Occupants Are Kither
Killed or ( apturcd. Says
Report
tReoublican A. P. Leased Wire
Infantry attacks by the Hermans la
the Verdun region; a French1 gain in
the Champagne, a British success on
Hie imy ridge and further success
ful unsalughts by the Austrians in the
suithern Tyrol are chornicled in the
latest official communications.
After a period of llinr ll II J by the
mtantry around, Verdun, the Uerman
loot soldiers nave been hurled agains'
the entire French line in th Le Mori
Horn ne reSKn. Kast of Le Mort
Ilonim". the Germans penetrated the
BILL IS
IIP ID WILSON
FDn signkture
Town of Kemp Is Reported
Willed Out and Trad ol
Death and Disaster Is
Left in the Red River
District
SAME
GONG 1
L
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 20. Congress
first French lines, but were driven out today completed its part in enactment!
.villi serious losses. To the west and!of the firt!t of tne administration pre
on the northern slopeB of Le Mort , Paredness measures, the army reor
llomme the Hermans occupied posi- Kanization bill, and sent the measure
lions in portions of French advance !UP 10 President Wilson for his sig
tremhes I'neer a violent fire by!nature-
French guns, ihe Germans are report- The nous0 MW' with onl'
ed to have retreated from the positions ' twenty-five dissenting votes the con
ii disorder. rtillerv continues active ference re',ort ,he army measure,
in the o'litr sector about Verdun. t which already had been accepted by
The French have cleared ilMU senate. It provides for a regular
trench in Champagne, by a surprise " v 'eace strength ot more i establish definitely
attack, All the occupants of the than "MM men, backed by a feder- casualties, he said.
truich are leported either to have been allzed tkm1 r more than
UOed ol captured. Further north the 4t,0-00- and oarried man reorganizi.- )n Oklahoma
British have wiihstood two C.eiman tion features worked out by war de- MfSKOGEE, okla.. May 20.
1 . . . iLirlmfiit officials to imikf tlio na- t t j t
inrusu in tne region or loos ana . . T T uaniugc uuu mm
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DENISON, Tex., May 20. At
leafct eighteen persons were killed
in a terrific wind and rain storm
which passed over the section just
north of Denison shortly after ten
o'clock tonight.
The town of Kemp, Okla., two
nr.lts north of the Red river, is
reported out. Most of the deaths
are said to have occurred at Kemp
one child was killed a mile north
of Denison.
A relief train left Denison at
mic'night for Kemp. All wires
are down north of here.
The tornado is said to have cov
ered a wide territory but its extent
"culd not be ascertained here late
tonight.
.The child killed north of Denison
was the son of Or. J. P. McCulloch.
The relief train from here carried
several physicians and nurses. It is
not expected the train will be able
to communicate with Denison or
points south of Kemp for several
j hours.
Kemp is in Bryan county, Okla.,
IMS than two miles from the Texas
state lino latest census reports gaW
't a population of 336.
Twenty iersons are known to be
dead at Kemp, according to Gray
Smith, an employe in the Denison
postoffice, who reached here from
Kemp at 2 o'clock Sunday morning.
Smith said he saw twenty bodies.
The town was in such a wrecked
condition that it was impossible to
the number of
President Says Europe Is
Grappling in War as Is
America in Peace with
Competition of Standards,
Traditions and Politics
NEW NOTE FROM CARRANZA
EXPECTED TO PROPOSE MORE
DEFINITE UNDERSTANDING
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
" CHARLOTTE N. c. May 2U. Pres
ident Wilson, speaking here today at
an anniversary celebration of the
Mecklenburg declaration of independ
ence told his hearers the process in
volved in the European war is the very
thing that has been going on in Amer
ica a competition of national stand
ards, national traditions and national
politics.
"Europe,' said he, "has grappled in
war as we have grappled in peace to
lee V'hat is going to be done with
these things when they' come to see
what is going to be done with these
things wnen tiiey cnie into hot con
tact With each other. What you see
tuning place on the other side of the
water is the tremendous I almost
said final process by which a contest
CENSORSHIP IS AGAIN
CLAPPED DOWN TIGHT
r Republican A. P. Leased Wire ports, although no confirmation was
EL l'ASO Mav 20. Movement of 1 forthcoming.
the Sixth Cavalry from Columbus, N.
Should Forecast Be Borne
Out, Delicate Situation
( 'reated by Request for
Withdrawal of Expedition
Will Be Closed Incident
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 20. The state
department was officially advised to-
!. I iImv tfri.it it micVit otiumt uoon :i new
border patrol. It is pointed out that ""J 77" '
Columbus to Colonia Dublan and Nam-
Army men profess tit see in the new
movements an intent more far reaching
M.. to tne mg iseno oisirici wueie w.eir than ,,H, m(,re strengthening of the
announced objective is reinforcement
of the border patrol, was begun to
night. Tte Censorship was clapped tightly
down at Columbus. The first train out
of Columbus left for the east about
nightfall. The entire detachment
Should detrain at Marathon, Texas, by
Monday morning. From there it faces
a ninety-five mile ride to Boquillus, its
point of distribution.
although troops now scattered south of j note from General Carranza regardin
the border situation. Indications are.
hjtUpa are needed to insure the safety i thut " wiU ot a frienu'y character
of General 1'ershing's command, which
and it is thought possible General
of elements may in God's process, be I mlght h.lV(1 ,,onm.ctin wilh further
has been greatly eonso
which has established itself in strong
positions.
With General Jacinto Trevino mov
ing large forces of troops into Northern
Chihuahua and Coahuila. it is said.
The fresh activity of the Columbus I the natural sequence would be the
censor was not clearly understood here, strengthening of the American forces
.Military observers conjectured that It t in the district to the north.
Udated and ; Oarranza may propose the framing
turned into a co-ordination and co-op
elation of elements.
Tor it is an interesting circum
sttiieo that the processes of the war
stand still. These hot things that are
In contact with each other do not
make much progress against each
other. When you cannot overcome you
must like counsel.
The reference was given significance
by the presidents hearers in view of
the
movements northward of units of Gen
eral IVrshing's expeditionary force.
This belief was strengthened by the
announcement of General Gavira, the
Carranza commander in ,luarezi that
he had been informed large bodies of
American troops were marching north
ward past Casas Grandes.
For the last day or two it has been
rumored here that the Tenth Cavalry
was to be withdrawn from Mexican
Heavy
if life a.s a result of
around Weiltje and the loval North : "5""" "" the tornado is retried all along the
lancashires have recaptured a crater' To complete the main elements of I(,,d rivpr val,ey Reports from other
on tne Vimy ridge, the scene of much PWram of preparedness on which sf.ctlons of 1C 8tatt. als wtt (tf
luuiiuwiniiivn uuma m nueuu hAru i.,,..,.
W
. the
more than a billion dollars within the i
next five years, congress still has to I
perfect and pass the naval bill, em-
At Woodward. Okla.. more than a
score of persons were injured when a
hard fighting in the fust few days.
The craler was captured by the Ger
mans on May IS. In Tyrol the Aus-
t rlans have followed up llieir successes ir?"1 , , "UW" "rtrnaiitaunna tent was blown down
by competing Italian forces to evacuate! 'nm". , X. I , l"rM- & Ne probably will die
.,,t ,,,...,., f In Hp,. t., Imp h..-wl M im
persons were trampled when the
rrnlvil pnulinil fnini lmn. . it t h tin. f-ilt-
Besides the personnel increases, the ,
measure provides for a government '
I nitrate manufacturing plant to cost
Ih,. ii.il llnnl,. cntttKciu .if R.iVliftfi
j ll.lilill till Nnm VI lll eill 1 1 "lllt-ll l lui
the increased ormy.
and west of Monte Maggio. the ex
tremity of th'lr previous advance.
According to the Austrian official
statement Italian prisoners so far cap
tured total more than officers
not more than tn.iiOM.otM), for estab
Fron- Western Texas
i RAY AVTllVIO Mnv fft flMinril
military . fr(im weHteln Texas tonight indicate
severe damage to crops ami live stock
.....1 j..,.. I. i. .1,-. .1 ..,.1 .... criinu '
. i ' " I lishment of a system of
.,.-.0 ..a.e Itraining camps for civilians, paid for
Numerous air raids have marked the , , . - - . . "
warfare. German seaplanes raided I the b()ard (() investigate tht: advisabili,v , fr"mt ,,la11' w'n, storm The
east coast of England but did little ratal(li8hlnK , KOVernment muni. j -o..ntles of Kinney Maverick. I valde
damage. London declared. Itions t,i.,nt m,! f,.r vo,..ti.,..,.i a,..ll,n "alverde suffered the greatest
The ... . ... . lo.'g and it is reported several huh-
Idred head of cattle were killed by
hailstones larger than hens eggs.
.eeem OIKinini Ol liossiouiues , ,, :. ,,, .i(...,., ,,ssible Ibat
offending the war. j Mg re(.imen, cns,ituted the troops
Before s,.eaking President Wilscji . re(,rri , , (ieneral Gavira's re
re iewed a parade. Afterwards he was
guest at a luncheon, motoring later
to Davidson college where he once
vas a sludent.
The president's address follows:
"I do not know, my fellow citizens,
whether I can interpret for you today
the spirit of this occasion, but it is
recessaiy when v.e get together in cel
ebrations like this to take counsel to
gether with regard to just what it is
that we wish to celebrate. You will
pay we -vish to celebrate the memories
of tint time to which we look back
w'th stteh pride, when our fathers with
fingular wisdom of counsel and stout
ness of heart undertook to set up an
independent nation on this side of the
water; but it la very much more .m
nortaat th::t we should remind our
selves of the elements with which our
forefathers dealt. There were only
I iiree
ST FAULT SOS
U
It is pointed out, however, that no
particular significance is to be at
tached to this strategy.
Marion Letcher, American consul at
Chihuahua City, who came to the bor
der several days ago under orders from
the state department, left for Wash
ington this afternoon to report to the
government on conditions in his con
sular district.
The body of Sergeant Harry Furman
who was shot on Mexican soil by a
Mexican customs guard Thursday, was
shipped to riruoklyn, N. Y late today
after a military funeral.
CROWN PRINCE
STILL FORGING
iS
T
of a definite understanding along the
lines of the unwritten agreement
reached by the military conference at
j El I'aso between Generals Scott,
I Funston and Obregon.
Should this forecast be borne out,
the delicate situation created by Gen
eral Carranza's request fur with
drawal of the American expedition
would be a closed incident.
Special Agent Rodgers, at Mexico
City, reported today that the attitude
of officials of the Carranza govern
ment had undergone a decided change
within the last few days. There were
evidences in many quarters, he said.
I of increasing friendliness towards the
I nited States. iptimistic expecta
tions as to the purport of the new
note are founded on these statements.
Officials here believe the change is
directly due to General Obregon's re
port of his discussion with the Amer
ican chief o( staff and border com
manders. The American officers were
Completely successful apparently in
overcoming suspicions of the Wash
ington government's intentions, which
the Mexican war minister entertained
when he was sent north for the con
ference. Mr. Itodgers reported that Mexican
officials now felt that the critical
stage resulting from the Columbus
raid had passed and said tension was
greatly relieved in the Carranza
capital.
C il. Charles W. Harris, adjutant
general of the national guard, yester
day took exception to the statements
given out to the Associated Press by
the war department, and printed in
million citizens in that original yesterday morning's Kepublican, re-
ineie was oiny one KIWI r.,,in in ,ho ,,rmv Fu.lUrnli-, .ti,.n of
casualties rrom anotner ..erman ne natiotrU guard wouk, ,,e aceom.
raiU reponeu o rara WW eo m- lisbed thronel. foiler:,! r..n,- nnil
I through a requirement making the
guardsmen subject to the orders of
ward fifty persons being killed in Dun
kirk and llcrgues and nearly forty In
jured. The French declare that five ,h nilpl.ni
hostile ma nines were brought down In j Eif,hteen republicans, five demo
six engagements, while an equal num-, crats one Frlr,lT, and one j.,,.
Der or aerial victims is ciaimeu uy turn
Germans.
Telephone
and
telegraph wires
throughout the affected area are out
of commission.
Expedition at Standstill
1 F.TI:OOKAD, May 20 (via London j thp negative
Having to cope no longer wun we
Kurdish mountain bands and isilntcd
Turkish outposts and, instead, now be
ing confronted with the regular Turk
ish army concentrated on the Turco
Persian border before Khaaikta. the
Russian -Pagdad expedition has come
to r. temporar standstill Tlv Turin
are ieport?d to lie BntUhK up a des
perate resistance, apparently deter
I id ti .'eli.y at all cert a further
republic of the United States of Amer
Ica Now there are one hundred mil
lions. It Is a long cry back to those
modest beginnings; a great period of
lime not only, but a great period of
profound change, separates us from
ganling the had condition of the Ari
zona troops on the border, and the
long time it took them to mobilize.
Col. Harris stated thnt he was at
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
A I ST RJ A N 1 1 EADQL'ARTKRS
(Via Berlin to London, May 20.) The
army of the Austrian crown prince,
Archduke Charles Francis, who was
only recently entrusted with his first
high command, continued to force the
Italians back toward the border in
the southern extremity of Tyrol, and
has strengthened and extended its
a loss to
being given
account for such, an article hold ' on the sections of Italian terri-
iut.
Hi
laid it at the
that time, and yet I would remind you doo, f ,he division of militia affairs,
In Eastern Colorado
1st voted against the adoption of the I ' May " Ter-
conference report. Minority Leader Ron whos' name has nnt been Earned.
Mann, who believes the measure in-! here- was criously injured anc con
adequate, was one of those voting in ! ,idM-nblp pmiierty damage caused by
n tornado wiine late today swept
Ih'ough eastern Colorado, at Yuma
i and proceeded near lirush and Wel
I don.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire At Yuma two garages were reported
NEW YORK. May 20. On board the demolished and the railway depot
American tank steamer Standard ,,lrnd completely around, near finish
which arrived late todav from Tamnifi "evernl buildings in the Hamilton i
and Tnxnaii. are cieht American re- ranch were tossed high into the air
BRINGS REFUGEES
II1 illMe.l
f-iee T''
lugees sent home1 by
consul at Tampv-o. The party con
l istc.i of lour v.'imcn and four children.
the American hly mender reports have been made, i
nt of rthe damage i
f-d 1h" foil
an n't Tit I i
Fill? MILLilS f ill flClffi
IF KHGHANT SHIPS Fffl I S.
In fl-'-
that th" same elements were present
then that are present now.
"What interests my thought more
than anything else about the I'nited
Slates :s that it has always been in
process of being made ever since thar
little beginning and that there have
always oeen the same elements in the
process. At the outset there was a.
the heart of the men who led the
movement for Independence a very
hich and handsome passion for human
liberty and free institutions. And yet
there 'ay 1 cfore them a great conti
nent which it was ne -esnrrV to sub
due to the uses of civilization if the.'
Were going to build upon it a great
state among the family of nations. I
heard a preacher once POtat. out the
verv interesting circumstance that our
.ord's prayer begins with the pet'tfon
r fmtr '.'itv bread' from which h?
Hr v th.-- inference thP 1'. is very' dif
r ,..,t ) o ot dii" : A on :'ii empty
. . ,..,1 t'l .t 'ho mate-ial fotin-
, it. n : of our life are the f'rst foun-
Who he states have always been an
tagonistic to all things pertaining to
the militia.
In the following statement, Harris
tory on Wednesday.
This newest offensive by the Aus
trians is declared to be, like all the
other offensive movements in this
war, a further exhibition of the effi
ciency of properly handled artillery.
explains his contentions and gives aThe Austro-Hungarians began their
table showing the percentage of elig- j operations after assembling adequate
l:i
4
of DMtmifldlnti : n l did nf be" pr0p
cr'v damage. It ii retorted ot) man
: was pi-rhaor, fatally Inlawed and that
I aeVerai others were hurt.
In Furnas County
OXFoRD, Neb., May 20. It is re
j ported that the storm which struck
w h.i
Repuhtican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. May 20 The ad
ministration Hhipping bill, appropria I- leased or chartered them.
Irtg 50,000,00i for purchase of mer- Secretary McAdoo of the treasury,
chant ships by the federal government I issued a statement tonight character
wlth a view to providing an adequate jZPd the bill as "one of the most im-
merchant marine, passed the house to- i portant pieces of construe!
in war time regardless of whether the I ,h on ,,f country near WHnn
government has sold them outright. I '., rnai "l,nfv, a's0 damage
" ' ' i v.ity, nr.- eoumy seal.
day by a party vote. It now goes to
the senate where a combination of
democrats and republicans defeated a
similar measure a year ago.
The house passed the bill 211 to 161,
only two democrats voting against it.
Nine republicans, three' progressives
and one independent voted favorably,
and 11 members voted '.'present."
Republican leaders, who during sev
eral days of debate made more than
a hundred futile efforts to amend the
measure and who delayed a vote yes
terday by a filibuster, offered no fur-
the commerce and prosperity of thtLpsad reports here
Lrtited States that could possibly be 1 ,b,ne at Yuma, bn
enacted
Reaver City could not be reached
A wind storm of tornado propor
tions Is reported In eastern Colorado,
the towns Of Kofi M,iPI'-lll 'in, I Vim-ii
legal for ,einf, in its Mah According to rail-
much damage was
III so frit us li.i
' learned there were no casualties.
I wart to call yo.ir attention
It i.i that this country ever since uw
time has devoted practically all of Its
attention, perhapft too much of its at
tention, to the material foundation of
lis life; to subduing this continent to
the uses of the nation, and to the
(Continued on Page Three)
Politics Make
Appearence at
Baptist Meeting
Roosevelt American Best
Equipped To Lead Nation
The plan to select eight delegates -
i t-large and twelve district delegates
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DENVER. -May 2ii. Twenty dele
ther resistance today, permuting a i gatus-at -large, each with hnif -..tn
vote as soon as the house convened. I were selected at the progressive state 1 W"S 3l'ani!ol"'li nd tn followine del
Vessels purchased under the bill and i cohventioii today and instructed to ' pRates-at-large chosen :
not resold, leased or chartered to pri-J support Theodore Roosevelt for the f'larence P. Dodge Colorado
vate interests, would be operated by presbh ntial nomination at the national Springs; E. P. Costogan, A. A. Lee.
a shipping board until five years after convention. Resolutions adopted re- ' James H. Causey, Mrs. Marie Dicker,
the close of the European war. At the new "our fealty to the progressive """n B. Stephen, Charles N. Knowles,
dm ot mat time ine noaru wouiu nave
to dispose of whatever ships It might
have on hand. The board would con
tinue in existence and discharge its
duties of preventing discrimination
against shippers, mataining fair rates
and preventing combinations.
Provisions also are made in the bill
for the use of all vessels In the mer
chant marine as auxiliaries to the navy
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MINNEAPOLIS, May 20.- Politics
made an appearance fn the Northern
Baptist convention today when several
groups of delegates began activities ill
behalf of candidates for various offices
in ftniieioation of the report of the
committee on nomination next Mon
day. Informal protest against the
election system, which they asserted
gave control over all offices of Baptist
societies to thirty men, was entered by
one group of delegates.
The-committee is said to have agreed
upon Dr. Uairbour of the Rochester
Theological Seminary for president,
and the renominations of Dr. A. 1.
Rowland, treasurer of the American
ible males who have enlisted" in Ari
zona is larger than in the states of
New Mexico and Texas:
"Arizona according to the annual
report of the division of militia af
fairs has the highest percentage of
its available imputation in the militia
of any of the western .states, and
stands fourth in the whole military
forces of the states and territories.
The figures as given on the three
states that lave mobilized, namely
Texas, New Mexico and Arizona ami
their comparative stanaing is as fol
lows: Available Pet. in
State rnaliv, 1)14 Guard order
Texa s .. .. Ml l.!ts.i .2S
New Mexico TJ.OSt 1.8"'
trixona ... 53,wl 1.35
U. S SMtoMt ,3
"TIt der for mobilization was re
ceive! at eleven o'clock a. m. at the
office of the adjutant general on May
IS. 191C and at ten o'clock a. m. on
May 12, 191(1 the special train with the
first infantry left Phoenix. In addi
tion to the troops assembled the en
tire contents of the srreioom had
been loaded on wagons and these
twenty-two wagons in turn loaded on
the troop train- so that the troops and
all supplies moved at the same time.
Some of our men at the time the call
came were hundreds of miles from
their home stations, although In the
state, and these have been reporting
daily. I am very much gratified at
the promptness of the mobilization in
this state and must say that it com
pares favorably with similar move
ments of the army. Also the equip-
artillery, which included numerous
new guns of high efficiency. The or
der for the commencement of a bom
bardment of full intensity was given
last Saturday, with the result that the
cannonading reached a degree of
fierceness never heretofore experi
enced on this front.
The Austro-Hungarian guns suc
ceeded in smothering the Italian guns
in the sectors where an offensive was
planned, and thus the infantry was
Pleased With News
CHIHI'AHI'A, Mex May 19. (Via
El Paso Jet.) News that a regiment
of American troops had been with
drawn from Mexican soil was re
ceived with delight here.
General Jacinto Trevino, who ar
rived in Chihuahua City ttp.lay to take
charge of the campaign against the
bandits of Chihuahua and Coahilla,
declared that now that he has a free
hand, he would he able to speedily
eradicate the bandit menace. He said
he hoped Americans would not mis
construe the northward movement of
his troops.
Long trains loaded with the steel
work of rolling stock burned during
the various revolutions, are moving
south to Monterey. The steel will bo
melted down for new rails.
Horses in Poor Shape
MARATHON, Tex., May 20. .Be
cause of the poor condition of their
cavalry horses, it watwthought here
tonight that Col. E. W- Sibley and
M3"or George. T. Lar.ghorne may not
be able to lead their detachments to
the border before Tuesday or Wed
nesday of next week.
They are believed to have started
the return march late Friday, making
easy stages, because horses and mules
able to begin work on Monday in the alike were exhausted in the three-day
mountains between the P.renta and; Both ward dash. Colonel Sibley
(Continued on Pa"ge Twelve)
DDflMli
i iiumiiiLn
i
ot m
ii dim
1 RESIDENTS
EPOHTEO FBI MEXIGO
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, May 20. Carlos Teran,
Rati on Merino and Angel Monge,
prominent residents of Moctezuma,
Sono'a, the latter aged SO years, were
deported from Agua Prieta today and
are in Douglas tonight. Adeodato L
Felix, Judge of the court of the First
Instance in Moctezuma, Jesus Laborin
Teran, Merino and Monge spent last
night i r.the Agua Prieta jail and were
given a hearing by General P. Elias
Calles military commander of Sonora.
They are said to have established to
his satisfaction that they were inno
cent but he advised them to leave the
ountiy. Acting upon this hint, thev
. lei k of the -ourt, and Miguel as- I crossed the border with their families
quez, a merchant of the same place i w!lo na(i f0nowej them,
an- said to be confined in the jail in The fate of the other three men has
Agua Prieta, charged with being en-not been determined. Friends allege
faged In the same conspiracy in behalf 1 thiy are facing false charges brought
when Judge Felix decided a case ad-
(Continued on Page Three)
of Felix Dirz for which the three were
deported.
Fifty Per Cent New Mexican
Guard Is Declared Unfit
leelare that 'the American best equip
ped to lead the nation in the world
crisis confronting us is Theodore
Roosevelt.' "
Clarerce P. Dodge of Colorado
Springs was endorsed for the guber- j Troutman, Canon City; Mene D. Vtn
tvUorial nomination. jtent, Paonia; M. Nicholson, Leadville.
son, Loveland; Thomas E. Thomas,
Colorado Springs; R E. Drennan,
Port Morgan; Ira M. De Long, Bould
er; James Ewing. Greeley: A. E. Pat
ton, 'Jollier,; P. Burns, Pueblo; P. H.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMBUS, N. M.. May 20. Phys
ical inspection of the New Mexico
national guard, which is rapidly near-
for San Antonio for conference with
General l"uuton in an attempt to
have the physical examination waived.
Movements of troops ill the re
alignment of the border patrol were
principles of the campaigns of 1912 I'attie K. Howard, all of Denver; Ben- Baptist Publication Society, and of Dr. ling completion, bus disclosed that ap- concealed tonight by the censorship.
and 1914, endorse a strong policy of iJamin Griffith of Grand Junction; C
military and naval preparedness and j ''" eiener, Sterling; George W. Jack
H. L. Morehouse, for corresponding proximately
secretary of the American Baptist
Home Mission Society.
The convention cheered the name of
Justice Charles E. Hughes when ref
erence was made to him as a possible
member of the committee which will
settle the controversy between the dif
ferent societies.
0 per cent of the mili- However, it was admitted that im-
tiamen examined are unfit for ner- J portant moves are under way and
vice, it was announced tonight. As that General Funston expects to have
a result mustering officials predicted his command redisposed some time
that not more than two battalions of I next week. At military headquarters
infantry and a battery of field artil- current rumors that at least two regl
lery will be mustered into the I'nited i ments of the expeditionary command
Stales army for patNtUf the border, j are now on their way to Columbus
II. T. Herring, Adjutant general, left Could net be confirmed.
vcrsely to some of the officials of tne
Mocetezuma district and in favor of
Teran.
Americans reaching here tcday state
that several bands of Yaquis. driven
from their mountain retreats by hun
ger, are raiding ranches in the vicin
ity of Esperanza, Sonora, where a
number of Americans are located.
Several Mexicans are said to have
been kil'cd, while some of the Ameri
cans have bad narrow escapes from
falling into1 the hands of the Indians.
The de facto Mexican troops, ap
proximately twelve thousand of whom
are in the valley, are said to be inac
tive, making no effort to control the
Yaquis or disperse them.
Mexican trcop leaders of that vicin
ity are quoted as saying that they are
saving their ammunition in view of
possible complications with the United
States, the embargo now in effect
making it impossible for them to get
more cartridges.
