- TWW7
Generally fair to-day and to-nWrWfej
moderate temperature; light winds.
Highest temjJferature jrttterday, So; lowest, 65.
Detailed weather, malt and marine reports on page 9.
IT SHINES FOR ALL
I
.VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 351.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 16, 1916. Copyright, lilt, by tht Bun Printing and PbUhing AttoeiaUon,
ONE CENT
In Omlff New York. I Elsewhere
Jmw City sad Newark, i TBI' CENTS.
RUSSIANS TAKE
GATEWAY CITY
INTO HUNGARY
Occupy Jablonitza in Drive
by Southern Army
Through Carpathians.
KING FINDS YOUNGEST
RAILROAD CONFEREES IN DEADLOCK:
DEPARTURE OF 25,000
MILITIAMEN IS HALTED
NEW GAR STRIKE
THREAT BY MEN
ON GREEN LINES
Ultimatum Soys X. T. Hall
ways Co. Discharged
Ex-Strikers.
SOLDIER A BOY OF 12
WILSON STRIVING TO AVERT STRIKE;
MANAGERS BALK OVER 8 HOUR DAY
Youth Complains That They
Will Not Let Him Fight, Is
Told to Obey Orders.
War Department Order Held
in Abeyance Pending R. R
Strike or Settlement.
CAPTURE TWO OTHER
TOWNS AND RAILWAY
Czar Also Makes Gains in
Eight for Lemberg Blow
to Bothmcr.
CROSS ZLOTALIPA
UNDER HEAVY FIRE
Austrians Ford Stream at
, Korjolta and Stand a 5
Hour Grilling.
PrrnooiuD, Aug. IS. Russian troops
atind tn-nleht nl nn. nf th ontwfiv
to the plains of Hungary. Jablonitza,
a town at the pass of the same name
through the Carpathians, was occupied
by the Czar's forces to-day and retro
arid reports that their offensive In this
direction Is continuing.
This is the first news of an advance
by the Russian southern army since
the conquest of the Austrian crown
land of Bukowlna was completed.
Further north the Grlve for I.cmberg
Is making progress too and the Rus
sians under heavy tire are crossing the
Zlota Up and Byutrltra-Solotvlna.
There they captured seven ofllcers. 413
men and three machine guns to-day.
Take Two Other Tonne.
Through the Jablonitza Pass runs a
railroad from Koloxea, In aallcia, now
held by the Russians, southwest to
Stlgeth, in Hungary, where It makes
connections that rover all of Hungary.
The town of Jablonltxs. fa atMhegsource'
of. the Itlver Pruth and thirty mites
southwett of Kolomes. Two other towns,
Vormkhla and Ardjelluf, on the Pruth
routh of Jablonitza, were occupied by
the Russians after the evacuation of
Jablonltia by the Austrians. v
In the drive toward lumber? the Rus
sians have delivered another telling blow
against the right flank of Gen. von Both
mer"s retreating army at Ttistobaby,
three mlln wet of the Zlota Llpa, and
northwest of Monasterzysko.
The Austrian crossed the river at
Korjoba under the fire nf the Russian
batteries, suffering heavy losses. They
attempted to make a stand nn the high
ground nn the west bank, where they had
previously prepared strong Intrench
inents anil wire defences.
While shells raked the Austrians from
across the river the Russians moved up
from the south, where they had been ex
panding their positions miring the Inst
few days In the neck formed by the Zlota
Llpa and the Dniester.
In Grilling; fire Five Hoars.
They poured a grilling fire from ma
'nine guns on the Austrians. who with
stood the Russian uttarks for five hours
and then fell bark upon the Uorojana
River, four miles to the west,
BattUsare raging with terrific Intensity
"long the Zlota Llpa, the Russians hav
ing succeeded at several other points In
igainlng a foothold on the west bank.
'(Jen. Sakharuff has made a considerable
,i(tvance In the last thirty hours against
the left flank of (Jen. von Bothmer's new
'liotltlons. He has cut tho Tarnopol-Lem-i'.erg
Railway at a new point. Zborow,
where tho road crosseH the Slrlpa, drlv
Ins; further home the wedge between the
, seniles of on, von Bothmcr and Ucn.
von Uochm-Ermolli before Brody.
ITALIANS RAZE TOWN.
ep Suburbs of Totmlno Fleet
Fler from Trieste.
Rome. Aug. 13. The Italian advance
in the Isonio region goes forward Irre
sistibly nortli and south of Oorltz.
Ilnllan troops are fighting fiercely for
Tolmlno, and arc already In Its suburbs,
which are In flames from Italian shell
hre. . To the southcatt tho Italian ad
tr,e guard has beaten back the Aus
trlsns to within thirteen miles of Trieste.
A part of the Austrian fleet Is. re
Parted to have left Trieste, sailing for
soxo place and purpose known only to
Hi commander. It Is believed here that
the Austrians feel (hat Trieste Is
iinri by the steady advance of the
Italians.
right for Rocky Peaks.
Tin fighting about Tolmlno Is of the
"ine detperate character that has raged
ii along the mountainous Italian front.
'o rocky peaks, Munte Santa Murla
""a Monte Santa I.ucla, to the south
"l Tulmlno on the right bank of the
!!,. ? MV strongly fortified by
i."' ulrlsns, who from their summits
"J, drctfd a Are of light and heavy
,h"t lias prevented the Italians
m?. "PJUf'nir the city. The two sum
J will have to be stormed before
.-v.;-. en t)e won
.in IP"0" of Tolmlno would be of
mm? 0 ,h ""Hans. About fifteen miles
that
01 uorltz, it Is on the railroad
run- .., -1 ... -
me wiioio nnn or I lie
n-i, tun tu.mii uren
frr ,ro, lI"lr troops about the
re.,! V ""'las attacked. This rail
but .? Jy '"" bf" cut t wo Pu'nts,
n i.J "V''Pture of Tolmlno would make
? rl'cily valueless to the Austrians.
-,."' aug a branch of this railroad,
Lm.m fr"MI ""it southeast and then
dv. V T'l'. hat the Italians are
fa. . V"-,'" " ''"im plntesu headrd
Lrl..""-' "er ' Italians mrr.o.
r"lng mpldly.
r .wr om'r reports that the Kiev
"i Army t:,,rp. which leads the ad
on in t'arso, repulsed counter at
' 1 i i
Coaffevtd on Third ragf.
' f nd0" 16. "I believe I have
found my youngest soldier," exclaimed
King tleorge durlnt his visit to the
jroiit, when he saw a twelve-year-old
boy among the Northampton.
t-: H'J1".1? Joseph Lefevre was not
English. He Is the son of a dead Bel
gian soldier, and was found wandering
about un()(r ,hell flra ,t TprM aopU4
by the battalion and plsced on Its rolls.
He told his story In French to the King
and said:
'They will not let mr, go up to fight,
but keep me back with the transport."
As I was going to suggest, and. being
a soldier, you will have to obey orders,"
said the King.
BRITAIN IN NO FEAR
OF SHELL SHORTAGE
Munitions Minister Tells Com
mons Workers Are Now
Keeping Up With Cannon.
London, Aug. 13. Reviewing the
work of he Munitions Department of
the Government In the House of Com
mons to-day K. 8. Montagu, Minister of
-Munitions, after telling of the immense
Increase In output of all kinds of guns
and munitions by his department. In
formed the House that all rifles and ma
chine guns for the armies In the field
are now supplied entirely from home
sources.
The quality of the guns and muni
Ron, he said, was equal to the quan
tlty. the artillery having during the re
cent fighting acquitted Itself to the en
tire satisfaction of the British army and
having ns well received the praise of
the trench Ministry of Munitions. This
statement, he added, was particularly
true of the heavy guns and howitzers.
Mr. Montagu pointed out that half of
, : tiii.uni.iiK rrsoruces or me country
. were reniilreil fA, tl. t.... ,..
I that very shortly Great Britain would
nave provided for her own requirements
"ie u arvoie nerseir exclusively
to the wants of her allies In regard to
machine guns.
Already Aiding; Allies.
Already, he said, she was sending
large amounts of guns and munitions to
her allies, and In addition was sending
to France one-third of her production of
shell steel and transferring to her allies
metals necessary for munUUa- h
amount of 0,000,000 monthly.
Th production of heavy shells, said
tha Minister, was now fit per cent,
greaier than It was In 1914. There was
now being produced In four days as
much how llrer munition as wa pro
duced durlmr the whole of. last year,
while there were being turned out every
mofth ns many heavy guns as were In
existence when the Ministry of Muni
tions was formed, and this number soon
would be nearly doubled.
The output of machine guns had In
creased rourteenfold, continued the Mln
Ister, and there could be turned out In
four weeks as many of these Implements
a existed at the formation of the Min
istry. Xerd of llla-h Esiiloslres.
The output of high explosives wss
sixty time as great as a year ago, but
the amount required was 11,000 to 13.
C00 tlmei as great as at Ihe beginning
of the war. The output of heavy am
munition, however, he said, now covered
the expenditure nf such ammunition.
Referring to German press reports
that the present offensive had made Ir
reparable Inroads upon the Allies' stocks
of ammunition, Mr. Montagu said It was
true that last month's expenditure
of ammunition was more than dou
ble the amount that would have
been considered adequate eight mopths
ago. and that In the week pre
ceding the July offensive the amount of
ammunition consumed exceeded the en
tire British production during the first
eleven months of the war.
It was needless to fear, however, he
asserted, that tho offensive would be
brousht to a prematuro conclusion by a
shortage of ammunition as long as the
workers and the employers continued to
play their part nobly, as they were now
dol"g.
GERMAN SHOPS AT THE FRONT.
Holiness Coin oa Jast the Same
as at Home.
At tiik Okrm an Field Rase ns rwc
Homme Front, via Berlin and London,
Aug. 13. Behind the battle front. Ger
mans are following their professions and
business fiursulta the same an at home.
There are little, restaurants, wnere of
ficers nnd men may eat thln-;s obtain-abb-
In their messes: bookstores, n den
tist, n. watchmaker, oculists and op
ticians and all classce of workshops re
quired by the army.
In the bookshops good literature of
all kinds may be purchased, the stock of
one of them Including Gertnun transla
tions of f'arlyle. Bulwcr Lytton, Marls
Twain, Alp'.ioni'e Daudet and Alexandre
Dumas. The dentlxt tliuo far during
the year has hud 4,138 patients, among
them being the Marquis Ravocourt, ror
whom ho made a set of false teeth.
TIES UP SUBWAY 20 MINUTES.
Passentrrr Refaara to Leave Car
Warn Destination Is Reversed.
Alphontu) Ijimy, 42 years old, of 734
Kast 109th street, tied up the subway
for twenty minutes yesterday as u mat
ter of principle. He bqarded a Brooklyn
express ut Van t'ortlandt Park, and
when Its destination waB reversed at
Rowling Green he refused to get oft
until a policeman arrested him on a
charge of disorderly conduct.
Msgislrate Murphy fined him 13 In
the Tombs police court, even though he
argued that he had tuken the same ac
tion on cars In The Bronx and had
been Instrumental In diminishing the
practice of reversing destinations and
holding the company to their contract
with the passenger, as he put It.
Renamed I'otlce lasaertar.
Police rommlssloner Woods yesterday
nnolnled Cant. William F. Boettler an
Inspector, lie has Men acting Inspector
of the Tenth district. Brooklyn, lie
joined the force In lltl. In 10 Com
missioner Bingham made him an In
spector, but In HlO Commlsaloaer Baker
reduced mm to npism.
BIG NAVY BILL WINS
IN HOUSE, 283 TO 51
Congress Virtually Completes
Defence Plans With U. S.
Second on Sea.
8037,344,000 THE TOTAL
Greatest Building Scheme Kvcr
Authorized in Any Country,
in Time of Pence.
Wasiun-otox, Aug. IS. Congress vir
tually completed the national defence
programme to-night by finally approving
the great Increases In naval construction
and personnel written Into the naval
bill and urgently supported by the Ad
ministration. The programme as It has finally
emerged from Congress calts for ex
penditures far In excess of those ever
before voted by this Government In time
of peace. The national defence bills
passed provide for expenditures aggre
gating SS7,3l4,000, divided as follows:
Army 1267,000.000.
Navy, IJ15.000.000.
Fortifications, J25.74S.000.
Military Academy, (2.211,000.
Army and navy deficiency,
$27.-
SS8.000.
Total. 9137,34 4,000.
The biggest naval bill ever passed by
Congress or advanced by any nation In
time of peace was practically made
ready for the President's signature when
the House accepted the Senate's big
building programme as contained In the
naval budget. With 3r. Democrats,
15 Hepubllc.niH and 1 Koclallst voting In
opvteltlon the House approved the three
yenr tnnsliUv.t!on plan, calll"E for U
capital ships, by a Note of 2S2 to 51.
K I train Leads Attack.
Itepresentatlve Kltc'.iln. Democratic
floor leader, led the recalcitrants und
charged that the Administration had re
versed Itself on the big navy Isiuc. The
Senate bill, he said, was "criminally
waste fat."
I's!,Hgc of this bill makes the United
(Mates the greatest militaristic naval na
tion on earth." shouted the Democratic
leader.
Chairman Padgett of the Naval Com
mittee closed the spirited debate with
the statement that "the President's heart
Is In this matter: be wants this pro
grsmme." Iteprescnatlve Itobcrt N. Page. North
Carolina, Democrat, virtually accused
Secretary Daniels of brraklng faith with
him and Heirresentntlvc Hensley, a "small
navy" member of the Naval Committee.
Mr. Page hald that beforo the bill was re
ported from the Houc committee lie
nnd Mr. Hemilcy saw the Secretary
about a compromise bill that all Demo
crats of the committee could support.
Mr. Daniels consequently telephoned him.
Mr. Page said, that t.iu compromise bill
was sitlsfactory.
"Small navy men In committee ami In
the House supported this compromise
and even agreed to live battle cruisers,"
said Mr. Page, "yet the chairman of
the committee moves to-day that wo ac
cept the Senate amendment, which calls
for four dreadnoughts and "Bur battle
cruisers the first year."
Unlisted Strength Increased.
In addition to accepting the Senate's
L.t nrA.rn m"n. 4h llmibC lin a
U1H iiti.,M. I" 1 " ;-- ,
..L. vnl. n1in ncrtntea the hell-
ate amendment Increasing the crllsted
strength of tho navy to uu men, in
stead of the fil,5u men proposcu m mo
iimia. i.iii i.-uptliArmnrn the President.
If a national emergency exists, may In
crease the authorised strength of the
navy to S7.000 men. Tlio senate amenu
ment providing for 6,000 upptentlce sea
men in lieu of S.100 authorized In the
House bill was accepted.
Following this action the remaining
e. iinemlmi.nu lii tllsnirreement in
rrfrreil back to the
conference committee. They are of com
paratively minor cnaracter una inn naviu
bill will be finally passed within a few-
days.
The conferees hail previously agreeii
upon, and the House to-day approved of
an amendment, revising the method of
..i..i... Ini-re.islnr the number of
ofllcers of the navy to keep pace with
the I icrease in personnel, n is pro
vided that nit ofllcers above the grade
Hatil-n!inl.nnmm.millr fill Alt be nro-
moicd hereafter by selection Instead of
seniority, nut me seniurny niriiiou win
be retained for the lower grades. The
....mu.n it tin. -,fTli'rM uiithorlzeil tinder
nullify, " - -' : ;
the personnel amendment Is 4 per cent.
Of the cnusicu jujrni," i,u
git 15,000,000 In lludcrt.
The naval bill carries approximately
$215,000,000, as coxpared with a budet
of $160,000,000 last year. Tho amount
authorised In the bill for new construc
tion li approximately Illo.OOO.OOO and
In addition to this the building pro
gramme obligates this Government to nn
outlay of 1488,000.000 for new s'.ilps.
Itepresentatlve Kltcliln told the House
that the expenditures proposed for the
navy alone within the next threo years
constituted an amount greater than the
United States had raised In any one year
by taxation.
"I do not hesltato to profess embar
rassment as a member of tho House and
as a Democrat to-day," nald Mr. Kit
chin. . "I ' remember two months ago
the chairman of the Naval Affairs Com
mittee, the membsrshlp of tho House
nnd, as I understand It. the Administra
tion approved my course when, as a
stralghtup Democrat, 1 voteil against
the extravagant, wild and reckless build
ing programme presented by the ltepub
llrana of this House In an amendment
offered bv Mr. flutter of Pennsylvania.
"I was applauded by the i lmlr'iian of
the Naval Affairs Committee when I do
nounced sucn a programme as criminal
wastend I understood that my position
was that of the Administration.
"And yet In two short months the
chairman of the Naval Affairs Commit
tee, the Secretary of the Navy and the
President asked me to get up and rat
my words and support a bill that was
denounced as criminal, reckless and ex
, . , i
Ceartsarif on Btcond Page.
Employees' Committee Summons 640
Brotherhood Leaders From New
York to Washington to
Join Deliberations.
CRISIS EXPECTED ON FRIDAY
Companies Maintain Shorter Hours Would Cost
$100,000,000 a Year; Men Say $20,000,000
Negotiations Continue To-day.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 15. End of the second day of
White House conferences between President Wilson and the
railroad managers and the trainmen brought no solution of the
problem upon which the threatened strike depends.
The deadlock to-night remains unbroken. Whatever con
cessions have been made by the two parties to the controversy
have 'failed to obviate the basic cause of the disagreement, and
on the main point at issue the employees and the managers are
almost as far apart as they were yesterday or even when the
apparent impasse was first reached.
Nevertheless the President is working to the end of in
ducing both sides to yield something, so that a common ground
that may serve as n basis for an agreement may be reached.
Essentially the situation remains as it was yesterday, but, in
spite of the slight progress made in the conferences held so far,
the hope persists that a settlement may be brought about ulti
mately, although several days may be required to accomplish
THREE UNDESIRABLES
(
BANNED BY SING SING
Weeded Out Under Welfare
LeAgue Psychopathy.
Ossinino, Aug. 1.1. Three convicts
were banished from Sing Plug to-day
by Dr. Ilernard Qluck, head of the new
Iychopathlc department. They were
sent to Clinton prison. I
Dr. llluck explained that the men are
suffering from hilliiclnatlons of persecu
tlon and In other wns seem lncapible
of controlling themselves. For that rea
ton, he s.ild, they would not fit Into the
schonie which Is being tried out at Sing
Sing under the auspices of the Mutual
Welfare league.
The three who were taken lo Clinton
are the first pllsoueis tn be .ift'cted by
the new policy which Dr. Oluck ndvo
cates. As rapidly as other undesirables
are discovered the plan of banishment
will continue until he lias the rlitht kind
of men In prison for th experiment
which the league Is trylnc out. Since
the cren are put upon their honor and
In some cases are permitted to leave
the prison Dr. Oluck llleves It Is neces.
sary to have only Hose who can profit
by IhN llbetnl treatment.
Dr. Oluck went to Clinton to-day to
make a study of the administrative sys
tem there nnd nlo to study the charac
teristics nf tM men. lie alsti will visit
Comstock prison and make a similar
analyst. Tim Clinton and Cnmstuck
convict will be compared scientifically
with the Sing Slug prisoners.
WILSON NOT TO TAKE STUMP.
. s
Probably Will Accept Imitations
tn Speak, McCormlck Sas.
Wasuinoton', Aug. 15. After a con-!
Terence to-day between President Wil
son and the members nf the Democratic
campaign committee, Vance C, McCor
mlck, chairman of tho national commit
tee, nnnnuueed Ihe President would
miikn no speaking tour, but probably
would accept Invitations to s-.wuk nt
different places.
Mr. McCormlck explained tho Pies!
dent's decision by saying Mr. Wilson
considered a atumptug tour Incompatible
with the dignity of the office of Presi
dent. So far the President's only speaking
engagements are Hodgensv I He, Ky.,
September I, nnd St. I.ouls September
20. He probably will rpenk before a
suffrage meeting at Atlantic City Sep
tttnber S nnd In Boston October 12.
JAIL FOR PORTO RICO MAYOR.
Poller Ilxrrotlte f.'onvlrtrd
ftl!M,ni( School firnft.
of
San Jpan, Porto Rico. Aug. IS.
Mei',0, "Ir'HtTI fr KMf' l
second la ges city of he Island may be
icmoved In view- of his .ivlctloi, on a
charge of conspiracy to violate the civil
servleo Iiiwh of the Island In foiling po
llllcal contributions from teachers In the
public Hchenls. He was sentenced to six
months In Jail nnd lined 1S00 and costs.
He has appealed.
Tile Mayor admitted the debt of J28,
000 of tlie Unionist party of Pon:e, of
which lie was one of the leaders, was al
most completely paid off thiough tho
system of levying ussomments on the
school teachers and other municipal em
ployees. Tenrhers were compelled to
contribute various amounts, usually 10
per cent, of their saluiies, to obtain ap
pointments In the schools.
00MPERS ANSWERS SHERMAN.
Never Attempted la Ilrllvrr Votes,
He Tells Senator.
Wasiiinuton, Aug, IS. Samuel Ooih
lers made leply to-day to Senator Slier
man, who veaterduy denounced him In
the Senate us a "public nuisance," dur
ing a chiiraclrrlsailoii of certain labor
leaders ,i:i arbitrary and tyrannical.
"It Is Impossible for me to be ar
bitrary or tyrannical," mid Mr.
Oonnicrs, "for there are no such powers
vested In the president of Ihe American
Federation of lhor. I never have at
tempted and do Hot nov ttmt' a I
have, not the pxwer, to. deliver 'the
of any man or group of men."
this.
The rnllrouibi nro not willing to
m-i-vpi uic rigiu nour tiny, oven in
vrluvWe. This th-y consider the
vitpi denu'tit in Hip iiintrovcrsv. Nor
can tlioy, npinirently, lie Imlucwl to
rt'Cunl It mi'tvly us u convenience for
the tMiiiitoyt-. They hold thnt the
problem 1 1 economic nnd ttint the
question before them I whether the
ruUromls shall continue to mnko both
owls meet or not.
At their conference with the President
lo-uay the suggestion waa made that If
the President Insisted upon their ac
teptance of the eight hour day principle
und woutj assume the responsibility be
fore the country of bringing It about
they would In? disposed to regard the ac
ceptance of It as a command. This suk
KtKtlon apparently did not relieve the
tension to any appreciable extent.
The railroad employees, on the other
hand, show no disposition to submit what
they teKsnl as the basic demand for an
iuiii ninir ua vu nruiirauuu. ccii,.
though they have shown on Inclination
to yield on other minor points In dispute.
At the conclusion of their conference In
the afternoon Mr. Garretson, who acts as
spokesman, said that the situation waa
Hie same as It was yesterday,
Statement From Wklte Hoase.
After the President had conferred with
the railroad managers In the morning tliu
following Matcment was given out by
Secretary Tumulty:
Tlie President spent an hour and i
half this morning with the representa
tives of tlie railroad management.
After the conference he said that It
was impossible as yet to report on tho
results ; all that he could say was tha:
a vary candid and honest discussion
was In progress about practicable
bates of settlement.
At the conclusion of the afternoon con
ference with the cmpIoee a similar
non-committal statement was made. It
,en,.J.J,
There Is no change. There Is an
earnest effort being made to work out
u settlement.
Tho hope that a satisfactory solution
will bf worked out Is based almost on-
I tlrely upon the fact that the Presldert
ass'imed it much firmer tone with on h
the nunuit'M'K ami the employees, whi?!i
may result in appreciable concessions
when tlie conferences are resumed tu
mor row,
The railway managers are working
desperately to find some way out of the
1 deadlock. They were In session all day
continuously nfter leaving the White
House, nnd convened again to-night with
tlie prospect of an all night session be-
fn-ii lli.m I'll p.itM.nnlill,-.. ,.f lliA
w, ....
elr.o'nveea mmenreil In flinl their Insli
. T, ....... . .. ...... ... ..
less absorbing and spent much of tho
time In sightseeing.
Manngers llejrctrd Proposals,
A report during the day that the man
agers had ncccrded tu the principle of an
eight hour day with the understanding
that the details nf its application should
I- erroneous uy Vo rrn to,
Uuaton. A proposition of I
.,, to the managers
be worked out by a commission was said
uch wllh
this kind
gers as a ba
sis for working out a settlement, but It
was rejected.
Just what form a settlement may take
appears as yet to be Impossible of con
Jectuic. There au no Indications that
any of tlie propositions made have met
with even n limited degree of npprovnl
of botli sides, but the mood of the men
us well ns nf the managers Is Mich that
there Is hope of a mutual giving way
to-morrow whether or not an agreement
h leached,
Affr (ommimicatlug with Piesident
Wilson to-night the employees' sub-corn-mlllee
sent word to New York for tho 610
members of the general committee to
come to Washington in order to facili
tate mgntlatluns. They are expected
here Thursday and probably wl see the
President Friday. The managers' com
uilltee will confer with lilm again to.
morrow.
W. S. Carter, president of Ihe Brother
hood of locomotive Firemen and one of
tlie subcommittee that has been confer
ting wllh President Wilson, left for New
York late to-night to lay the Htiritlon
before the committee of t0, It was said
that despite the request that the full com
mittee come to Washington some lead
ers believed Carter's conferences In New
York to-morrow might make It uunecrs
siiry for the other committeemen lo he
called Into the conferences here,
Wncii' It became clear that arbitration
Continued on Second pagt.
RAISE IN MILK PRICE
STARTS 3 INQUIRIES
District Attorney Swann and
State Food Commissioner
Gather Evidence.
WICKS PROBERS COMING
Committee, Aroused by "The
Sun's'' Story, to Investigate
Here August 20.
Three Inquiries were begun yesterday
Into the action of many retail milk
dealers In raising the price of bottled
milk from five to six cents a pint, while
continuing tho price of a quart at nine
cents. Prompted by the publication In
Tin SUK yesterday of advances In milk
prices, tho State Department of Foods
and Markets started an Investigation
and District Attorney Swann Instructed
his assistants, who are getting data con
cerning the milk situation, to ascertain
Just why the price of a pint of milk has
been advanced.
Coincident with the beginning of in
vestigations by the District Attorney anu
the State Food and Markets Commission
came the announcement from Atb.nty
tl'St the committee of which Senator
diaries Wicks is chairman, und which
has been Investigating milk condition.!
up State, will come to New York on Au-
gust 25 to start an Investigation o! re-
" i.. . ,,,i" i, ,,i., 1
.ftiB,.e
i. .ir,r.. 11 .ki. i,. -Phi. ' a. a,,d ,n scanning tlie list many ra
the large companies In this city. T.IU ... . nniolal UU. not In-
aclo,n lto as prompted by Tin Sun's
Since last Saturday when the exist
ence of eight pigeonholed indictments
found In 1910 against as many former
directors cf th rvnntuuted Milk Ex
change was discovered the District At
torney's office has been gathering in
formation, records and evidence from
different parts of the State. It Is getting
an possioie imormsuon as to rnna con-
dltlons from producers as well as dls-
tribute. All the data Is being assem
bled now, but Judge Sw ann hasn't, got
quite all the facts that he wants and
when he does he will decide what action
he will take In the matter of the pigeon
holed bills.
Bottles Come High.
Commissioner John J. Dillon's subor-
.lt..nt- ,. .., : . .. ;
... . i'nioriu oi romii
, m.. - liiau. limn iiiiUlliri.
among milk distributers as to cause for
the raise. They were toid that Pint bot-
, ties In which the milk Is sold cost almost
lag much as quart bottles; that It costs
as much to distribute a small bottlo as a
I larger one, and that Ihe loss by the
breakage has Increased because the l.iss'
"v. niti nn 11 uscu 10 up,
Borden's Condensed Milk Comnnnv
onn of the few big companies that still
cnars-e nve cents r pint for Orade B
milk, for which other concerns are now
exacting six cents a pint. It docs not
sell Its tirade A milk by the pint bottle.
H. N. Hallock, vice-president of the
Borden company, eald yesterday he could
nat tell whether or not his concern will
be obliged ultimately by the present
milk situation to Increuse the price.
It la known that milk distributers
would like to encourage the sate of quart
bottles and discouraRe the demand for
the pints. They admit it would be te
tho advantage of the dealer and the cus
tomer to have a quart as the accepted
unit.
une big dealer pointed out yesterday
that the greatest demand for pint bottles
of milk conies from big office bulldltv:s
nnd factories, where employees send out
for their luncli or lake It o work with
them nnd ttvi It off with mill:. He In
sisted he could see no hardship If a clerk
or etenosraphcr Is obliged to pay an ad
ditional penny tor n pint,
vv eie it not tor the accommodation, lie ' "arns n'ar Lie sioie were tlcsuoyeil. union buttons off the men : If tliev vie
raid, the aforesaid clerk or stenographer! A two story iclck building owned by late their promise by Interfering' with
wouui nave to pay live cents ,-ier glass
for milk at n lest.itirntii ni- unAn
tain, (hi the household routes the milk-
man rareiy leaves a pint nottlo at
home where there are children. The
Pints generally go to tte pair without
kids. ,
Jersey .Mar Have Strike.
Arross the river In Hudson county
employees of nil milk conipinlrw doliiK
huslnera there and many of them are
NTfcU' V'nrlf ..i.,,..,,.,! j ...... i .
...... XW...V,,,. iie,tiriliu III
. orlriililze :i nnlnn h,,l.,,..,.l,
..
labor organizations. A call was kent out
yesterday for a mai.s meeting at .lager's One lot of c.ono pounds was knocked
Hall, Tonnele mid West -Newaik live- , down to the lil-tliest bidder at U'.fin a
nucs, Jersey City, on Friday nlslil at 7 :3 1 hundred pounds, and another lot, con
o'clock. The notice sets forth that an tli.B- of p.noo ,-nmnds of unsold Hm re-
iirrriiieiii eiiiercji inio oeiween the ill k
companies snd their eti,-ilojec gives
tliein tlie r:-:lit to orsnnlze,
When tlie organization Is perfected, It
" aa.sald yesterday, formal demands will
cc man.- unoii me cnmpameH tor a Higher
wage scneouie. urivets of milk wngons
say that once they were sui, 'losed to de -
liver and keep accounts of only three or
four Items, straight milk, buttermilk, c,
Now- they are obliged to liandlo tgg.
butter, cheese and other articles to tlie
extent of n dozen or more. They My
their Increased laborr. warrant higher
wiwes, und that's why the are organiz
ing. PLANS DEEP INQUIRY. '
Wicks Coninilltep to Hold Fitendeil j
Hearing Here,
Ai.DA.sr, Aug. IS.Tlie Wicks InveHI-
gating Committee will hold u hearing In
New York city on Friday, August 2,"
Announcement to thai effect was made
in-day by senator Charles Wicks, cliulr
man of Ihe committee, who will be In'
Boston to-morrow ascertaining certain
conditions governing the milk situation
Iu that city, The committee at Its New
York meeting will try to secure books,
data and other memoranda from certain
metropolitan milk concerns which will
be served wllh euhpeenas within the next
few days. Heatings extending over a
gi rater period Kill be held III New York
In the Isle fall, according tu present in
dication. The fact that the milk gathering con-
ConHmuciI on Second Pagt,
Washinotov, Aug. 15. Announce
ment was made at the War Department
to-day that the sending of tho addi
tional 23,000 militiamen to the border
would be held In abeyance pending set
tlement of the railroad strike contro
versy. The order was Issued upon the
recommendation of Major-tlen. Frederick
Funston. The following telegram from
Oen. Funston was made public:
"In view of the possibility of a gen
eral railroad strike I desire to call at
tention of War Department to difficulties
that will follow In maintaining food sup
ply not only of the troops in this de
partment but of the civil population as
well.
"These border Slates produce but lit
tle foodstuffs except cattle. In view of
the foregoing I recommend that National
(luard organisations which are about to
slart for border States be retained In
their mobilisation camps until such time
as the iiuestlon of a general strike shall
have been determined."
MORE WILSON JOBS
FOR CONTRIBUTORS
Elkus Gave $5,000, and Fran
cis $1,000 to Democratic
Campaign Fund.
Washington', Aug. 13. Hcturns are
still coming into the Htnate showing how
the contributors to the Wilson campaign
funds four years ago were rewarded with
office.
Kepubtlcan Senators are digging up
the facts and embalming them In the
' J-ongrestionoi "tcorii, a supplemental
, l'"1 of the "des.rvlng Democrats, as
fjrya!l described them, was subm tied In
. ""' 'n,ahl"r rnVl
1 filed a 1st of the contributors to the
campaign fund four years
eluded In the recent Penrose list, were
to be observed.
Abram I. Klkus, Just appointed ana
qualified as Ambassador to Turkey, ap
pears to have glvtn 15,000.
David It. Krancis of Missouri, recently
appointed Ambassador to Itussla, gave
only 11.000, according to the list.
Amour the other iliii'inmjtlc "rewnrils"
disclosed by the published list Is that of
appointment of John Kwlng of Louisiana
as Minister to Honduras. His brother
Hobert gave 1300 to the campaign fund,
A contributor to the fund four years
ago was Robert B. (llenn. former Gov
ernor of North Carolina, who gave 1100.
He was named as secretnry of the Inter
national Boundary Commission Hiul got
a Job on the side of "subbing" for Serie
tary Hryan on the Chautauqua circuit
on those rare occasions when the Secre
, vry ui c-iuit? nan hi luirnn
tary of Mate had to forego the i;i0 a
nirtt t Httend to diplomatic matters,
Judge H, W, Sawyer of Wisconsin put
In 1200, and recently his son drew out a
Federal appointment as u. United States
District Attorney.
Stuart O. Oibbnney of New Vol I:, who
has served as counsel for the Comptroller
n. ,..-........ ....... .u.nui..i i..
m.iii n r,mtriiitr,r r ti nan n..
Is a close friend and protege of Secre-
Isit.irv MeAdoo
I William O.
Sharp. Ambassador to
France, gave $100. fl. T. Crane. Jr.,
rcvreiui iu me jirrproi rci.r-'iary o.
Mute Hinl son of Charles It. Crme of
Chicago, himself the blgKest contilbutor
to the Wilson campaign fund, having
given J3n,00O, appears as a contilbutor
of );,000.
WHITE PLAINS MARKET BURNS.
Four Other Biiltdlnaa llniuagril In
fUH.UIHI niasr.
White Plains, Aug. 1.Y-i-'lre which
slatted to-night In tlie new City Maiket
caused K's.MOil damage. Four other,
butldlm:. wire scorched hv the Hume. i
The market, a two story frame build-
Ing iu the business ventre, owned by M. a satisfactory reply we will call n strike
M. lmeybluni and Michael CavanaiiKh. within twenty-four hour-. We're nut
was ruimd. A meat tnatket In tho same gnius to make n mistake tins time. Ves.
structure was destroyed. The S.im Kills' the situation lias changed within Ihe las
Department Store and stock wers (lain-1 day. We can't wa.t for nrliilratlsin If
I'ged by smoke nnd water Two la'.ue the romnanv nllklals i.ro-eed !., i.,,.
''' "oosier iieany iompahy. which
i houses a catidv stoic, bakerv. dentists' i
1 offices und n m'.sloii hall, were saved
1 after catching on tlie.
HIGH PRICE FOR OLD PAPER.
Clt ItrnlltPa ns Milch ns -Ml Cents
m Pound nt Aoetlnii,
old paper brout
gilt n Rood ,-irlce jester
'day nt a sale ordered by David Fei
...... ... k...... a a.. . ,1... ,.t,.. ,, ...t ...
KII.UM, ,i,,ri i-ui .11 uir i ,iy i,cciir(l, -
,ii.,.,l ,i, ,.., .,r ,l. ......... r....
guson. Supervisor of the CKy Hectml, li
Ine.
..n.,,,,, c ...in-
' turned cop es or the Clfi; A'cconi. nrouc it
It, '15 a liimdied pounds, .iles of ucli
.paper In normal Hints IiiIiik from 20 to
60 cents a bundled pounds.
I Yestenla.v's sale, held Ht the dlatrib -
Ulliig division ot tne cirj isrtara, at S6
Iteade street, realized about 1470, and
. was largely attended by paper stock
' dealers.
DECLINES MEXICAN MISSION.
Third Man Refuses to Serve on
resident's Commission.
Wasim.mitiiN, Aug. 15, The thin!
man originally selected by President
Wilson lo serve with Secretary Lane
and Justice Draudcix on the cnniiiil.sslon
to coiii'iose Mexican border troubles has
declined to serve, it became known to
night. T,,e ''resident Is understood to be
' """"''"Irg n long list of available men.
! T,lf or ",0 ,,,lr' '"M" "niong the
original selections has not been divulged.
HUGHES 6 TO 5 FAVORITE.
Hrltlns; Commissioner nrports
Small Waiter on llrpuhHraa,
Kdnard . Mitjuade, curb broker and
bettlliK commissioner, says election I, el
tihi. has arrived. He reports some small
wagers on Hughes as a to 5 favorite,
compared with previous actual betting of
2 to I.
Some small bets have been made on
Whitman at odds of- to . wfctto the
Beabury backers are offering I to I,
UNIONISTS DEMAND
REPLY IN 21 HOURS
Company Managers Said to
Have Interfered "With Or
ganizing of Workers.
BROKE AGREEMENT
.WITH EMPLOYEES?
Subway and "!' Hands
Meet Other Systems
Face Trouble.
Another strike will bo called on the
lines of tho Now York Hallway Com
pany (green cars) probably to-morrow
n'ght unless President Theodore 1.
Shunts and Clcnernl Mumigrr Frank
Medley recedo from the position tliry
are accused nf having taken In dealing
with the union employees who went
out on strike two weeks nyo.
A letter was ent tn President Shouts
by a committee of employees, headed
by William Conway, president of tho
union men employed on the lines. It
accused the company utllcluls or indli.
crinilniitcly dlnoh irslnc ftrlkcr.s who
had returned to work. Interfering with
the organization of dip carmen ,
vlolatliir the, iiijrrHineiit ,y which the.
trouble was ended. The letter de
manded an Immediate reply.
Carmen Show .MIHlnut Spirit.
The militant spirit of Mime of ihe c.u
men employed on tho New Voik Hall
ways and on the Interborough Itapni
Transit Company lines was shown nt i
meeting culled at the Lyceum by tin
union lenders last night In opposition
the assembly of subway and elevated
emplo)ees called by President Shouts on
Monday evening.
While th.s meeting was held tn cur ill
more Interhornugh cmplo ,cs in the
union ami yelcit a committee of cm
plo.vecs of tii.it coipor.itlon to pir-cnt
demand-, tn tlie company threats wen
expressed hy speakers mat nuiiher lie
up would be ordered on iln N Vonc
Itallwa.vs because President Shunts had
violated the promise u.aib t Ihe stnkei
The union leaders. Inciud ni- Willi.,,
B. Fllrgernld, who manured the previ
ous strike; P. .1. ii'lirien. four h vhe
president of the carmen's union, ;uid
William Collin., Ksner.il organizer of Ihe
American Federation of l..il,.ir, were In
a Rrlm, flshtlng mood l.in ulBht They
sent a message to W. D. Malum, Inter
national pre-ldem, nsking him to re
turn lo hi.s tit.v linimd utely became,
the company bad violated In nmst
nasrunt manner the compact sUned
with Mayor Milchcl ami Chairman
Straus of the Public Service Commis
sion. II rm nnd Answer
J I
lunr.
"We will Klve ihe company twentv-
four hours to send us nn anwer," said
ritzceinM l.i.i niL-iif -if .i,
the orgaulzMlon of the union ns they
lid last nlftht nt the mertiiiR of the,
subway and elevated employee, and ns
they will attempt to do to-night nt tn.i
meetliiBs of the New York Il iMwa.v
eiipdovee. We ar not gn'ng lo w,i ;
for arbitration If the ciimpiny l.erps Hi.
ins nn o i men t'i v.o.iiiiou i.f t li t
promise. "All thee tlilnss have so! to "top. and
stop quickly, loo. , cominlliee of cm
plo.vees lias sought In vain to get in
touch with Ihe superintendent of t" o
I ,,,,, .. ,.(i ,, , ..,l.,..
i"nipan lino vv.in lliilli.v.
It has been
,inios li e 10 pet
an Interview. .
cordlngly, we diew nn n letter vvh n
I lias been eut to President Shunt
expect an answer b Thursday uori '
.lit the rates-!. We ore twice as slmiic
ns we were a week ago, because w
It.
,.i.,.i n,n .. i n... I.-,,,, ,n.i n,
, (n(, ,i,wrr lmues and we have e.Uhi el
hundreds more .anncn Into tin union,
ti,e company wants u light tlii'.v'll get
1 t this time."
Major nnd sirnns In lie Siiiiiiiimird f
It seemed almost certain last lug I
that unless there Is u sudden chance In
jhe situation both Mayor Mitchd. now- u
citizen soldier In 111" Phitl.bum train
ing camp, and Mr. SI ran, head of tho
Public Service Commission, who W up in
Maine, will be called back lo the. illy
lo adjust Ihe new difficulties.
Tlie ileletmlniil attitude taken by the
union men Is sel forth in Ihe concise lei- ,
tor which President Conway. John .1.
Byrne, financial secretary: lidwaid Mi-
Ntnn, vlce-prei Idetil, and John ir.Meaia,
bualne.sH agent of Ihe empn i the
New York Halw.iH. sent last night to
President Shouts, Tills letter lollows
"Nkw Voiik. August IS, I'.'lfi
"Mr. Throiliirr I', Simula, irrmilfiil Vrii
Vin.- iinii-oys Coiiipiin;, .Vnc I'or'
Clf.'L
"Dear Sir: We, tlie undetslgnril com
mittee, representing the rmpo,vee of
each car hoiiee upon .voiir sj.ttrn,
li pursuance Willi the iiEteemeui
entered Into on Angu-t 7, I .IB, be
tween yourself and Messrs Mahon,
Fitzgerald, l-'riiync nnd Fildiger for
Ihe euiplo) eee, call .voiir aiiciitiou
In what we consider a debbeniin
ind flagrant vlolallon of this iinecniriil
upon Ihe part of the officials of jn'ir
company,
"First Slme Ihe leiiirii of the eni
p'oces tn wink, by lndicrinilr i e .
charging of men who hid pirtlclp.itril i,
the suspension of work, when uu weiu
