XF 1 1ST AN C I "A"t EDIT! "OW
NIGHT
EXTRA
tmm
NIGHT
EXTRA
PltlOJB ONE OJDlfT
c
Fftoi. n-- 288
ISSIANS AIM
HARD BLOWS AT
FOE IN GALICIA
Ipture of Jablonitza Im-
Hungarian Plains
J'lIILADELPniA, W-EDKJESDAY, AUGUST 1G, li)lG.
cot wont. 1818, ai ini rnuo f.naia Counsx.
ITALIANS CELEBRATE SACRED FEAST
ifterils
CAISBR
AT EAST FRONT
'today's War Moves
in Lfiiei Buinuiui u
r
V i. 4-y.t.l finnnrnl Rrllasl.
l. nrmies arc striking, hard
Ioff'a
J0."8. .. n,n wlntra of von Bothmcr's
WOWS iifc ,,. j Vmvn rnnttlrnil
.flwnnitia. on the Carpathians.
JiMomwn; .. artillery
haeis continue both on the Mcusc
I dWIs . .! Thorn is nlitrhf.
infantry action.
. j. haffprinir the Austrian de
fenses cast of Gorizia, on the Carsp,
irSta the To mi no zone. There 13
HBO J" l V . .v A-finnd Jinvn
. P, Yt" loTfnr fnr t.
rw Balkan front The Allies have
l;:;..,,i anme more villages in the
lite Doiran region.
PETROGRAD. Aug. 16.
General Brusslloft's Russian armle3 nre
i. attacking all nlong tho lino In On-
,,. but tho hardest blows aro being driven
tone t the ends of tho line.
irhs new perils for tho Austro German
kbIcs which havo been brought nbout by
this latest burst of Russian activity ac
Smut for tho hasty departure of tho Ger-
C . .. il. Ttinnlnn llmntnp rtf . fl t
Bin Kaiser lor uiu un ............ ....
iherehe Is at present conferring with Field
jiwshal von Hlndenburg.
frTlle blow struck In tho Carpathians. 15
slles touth of Delatyn, where tlio Russians
tire captured Jablonitza, Is not only a
Jtrlous menaco to the flank of tho Austro.
Hgrgarlan army, but also Imperils Jab-
lonltia pass, one of tho most important
ptewajs Into tho Hungarian plains,
fjablonltza lies only a few miles east of
the pass on mo main roau 10 umraraaroa
i!get.
jrorlheast of Stanlslaw tho Russians are
pouring across tho Zlota Llpa River nnd
are overrunning tho hill positions of the
Austro-;rman3
West of tho upper Sereth River nnd
loutt) of the Lemberg railway General
Ton Boehm-ErmollI Is using great masses
(f artillery In nn effort tty check tho Rus
sians. WXdtopatch from Klov reports tho arrival
ni ot many nunureus or iresn Austro-
5 ucnoan prisoners, uu ui wuujii bnuweu iiiu
'jMMSt dejection.
tap I to stubborn enemy resistance at
KE8 Dolnts. the Russians ad vanced their
fon a "5-mllo front, extending from
tMlCari'athlans to a point southwest of
Timopol, In yesterday's fighting,' occupying
TEtrlllages.
(South of Drzezeny another Russian de
tachment forced a crossing of tho Zlota
Spa Hlver, Austro-Germnn counter-at-
HfKS then checked n. flirthpr nilvntipn.
ferce fighting Is going on in tho angle
he Zlota Llpa and tho Dniester, north
Etanlslau In the face of desperate en-
traj resistance the Russians advanced their
fine? further In tho direction of the rail-
Vtr town rf Trhll-r
IM ...........
Southeast of Stanislau the right wing of
General Leschltsky's army captured tho vll
Js of Solotvlna and Griava, on tho Zlota
Rstrjtia River.
jjear the Carpathians the Russians fol.
jK? up their victories, forcing the enemy
fire westward from tho region of Dela
ind Vorochta nnd capturing a height
JffiJ Vorochta and Ardzemoz.
I ,rs: Nij&jmL, " 8111'
; twmn' SB !
IS8b2wI i
'ly .vv'!lPff!!yMkSSWfeJfia fflSw8S?S, 1
' wllwPfw08Bwlt'
? EffiidB lPJ'BFfe9 KwS lffl
I ilB t'lslfe!! H K'HP3H
S jA fe yyTr'T)riii f-Jrm-lrl taifSt'fi .
Aft V XvSffrV- v M V JS V . . . I
140 ARE INDICTED
AS PROPRIETORS
OF VICE RESORTS
376 Cases Resulting From
Big Raid Yet to Be
Passed Uppn
PROBE OF STRAW BAILS
Points Indicating Break
Between Mayor and Wilson
CUNDAY Mayor Smith declnrcs
hc hai resigned presidency of
Thomas D. Smith Republican Club,
In the Twenty-cighth Ward, as nn
example to city employes. Says af
filiation with such clubs tends to
divert n policeman fiom his duty.
MONDAY Director Wilson is
sues order.nt direction of Mayor, that
all policemen must sever connections
with political clubs.
TUESDAY Director Wilson says
in interview, "I don't know of any
political clubs in this city." He
says that he himself would not re
sign from Union Republican Club
of South Philadelphia, because it
was n social and not i political
club.
Union Republican Club is same
type of club as Thomas R. Smith
Republican Club, fiom the presi
dency of which the Mayor resigned,
defining it plainly as a political
club.
QUICK NEWS
AMERICAN LEAGUE
CHICAGO, lslg....O OOIIIO
BOSTON O 0 0 0 2 0 2 -
Taber and Schalkj Lconoid and Hiomns.
W. M. jOHtfSSOtf DEFEATS JDlGtf HAUTE
NEwroitT, n, i., Aug. id. William tfolms&m defeated Richaid
Harto In three straight sets In tlio tennis 'blmmpIenBhlps today.
600 TRAINMEN
TO SEE WILSON
ON PEACE PLAN
Brotherhood Chairmen Voto
to Confer With Presi
dent Tomorrow
CARRY STRIKE THREAT
Situation as Bad as Ever, Say
Labor Leaders After
Meeting v
The Feast of St. Roceo was celebrated at the Church of Our Lady
of Good Counsel, Christian street west of Eighth street, today. The
lUnirin nit ln,na iln nf I. .,. 1 1.. it
im.ui.vSi.i;u aiiuwa Lin- tfn.Mii aiiis marciiing irom tnc cnurcii with a
figure of their patron saint virtually covered with one-dollar bills. The
parade passed through tho Italian settlement.
CRESCENT OF FIRE
MARKS OUTLINES
OF SOME FRONT
Most Terrific Shell Blast
, ings in the History of
World's Battles
BALLOONS AS SCOUTS
SUNDAY SCHOOLS
MAY BE CLOSED
BY HEALTH ORDER
Movement to Extend Quar
antine Against Infan
tile Paralysis
S NEW CASES REPORTED
We:
MENNA, AUJT 16 TVrrMr. flcrVilln. ho.
?LWd In Gallcla between Austro.llnn.
JjrUn troops and Russians on the front
mt between the Dniester Rler and a
!"! south of Zalocze, says an ofllclal state
fit dated August 14, made public by tho
Sj oalce today, it recounts the repulse
Russian attacks north of Slarlampo!.
By TRENCHES ARE CAPTURED
WTAMANS EAST OF OORIZIA
m ON CARSO PLATEAU'S EDttE
16.
Irenches In tnur ,im.... .n.i. .
eti&oH,!, 'i:."-vr""f."1. '" Kixsi
nil).-. .7 """ oeen capmrea uy the
fUans. It was announced today by the
& ?!--R"8 hundredand ftfty-three
hSrfi,T; "BVB Deen "Ken. The Aus-
Sth rlan ""s't'ona penetrated by the
&.?' " tne Blopes of 3Ionte I'eclnka,
Sr in J!4 J? tna sector ot Monte Ca'e-
Sand St. Marco.
fia5V' Aue- "Hammering at the
JSTiJ 'n"1 Tom Tolmlno. is miles
-SfinVrt Gor,,zia' t0 the Adriatic, the Ital
Ttthl if adance3 yesterday'r.t both ends
fcrffia. and Bt h0 cen,er east of
b,"'3- ,trt!op3 hava reached the
S Tolmlno, according to unofficial
utt&$ehed.1,ere ,ast nlght- The 'own
"reo?,M m,.flame3. anI military critics
fton, der ts fall Immlpent. The Aus-
BSfihtu- f ' ia,ready arB evacuating It.
oFfwlthin 1". ' ,,,an,:a ,ne ""Miami are
wlUlln 13 miles of TrlMi Th.v
vuuuoLta on Van Two. Column Fire
'THE WEATHER
Fnnnn a at
& Mdelphia and vicinity Gen
& fair tonight and Thursday; not
mX tP'raturet light,
LENGTH OF DAV. '
I K 1' . L r . -
ts n i " -1 '"". S5 P-
Iii'i. ... . --"'' '" 1 "woo avuioa ...ua. m.
rui4HABE KIVEE TIDK CJ1ANUK3.
CHEiVTMIT ftTRPlOT
"iter . , r.... ..
J?lUr tli-fT I '" r .J-" "
- - m . iu. 1 mw wr Ai v J, m.
TJMPEKATCBB AT 1UCH HOIK.
Jftt IM ' ! I ! I ,4 .1
7,1 , 7i ,ai 76 . 7i
By HENRY WOOD
WITH Tim FRHNCH ARJIIUS ON THH
SOSIMC, AUK. 16 A 30-mlIe crescent of
holld nrtlllery fire, one not the most terrific
shell blastings In tho history of tho world,
is drawing a lino of flamo alone the Somme
battlo front'
Tho "artlllcrylns" reached its greatest
Intensity ns I advanced at tho highest point
on Domplerro plateau, southwest of
Peronne. Tho day beforo tho Trench had
captured German third lino positions from
Hardccourt to Buscouit. At tho preclto
moment of my arrival tho French weio em
ploying nil their Ricat artillery strength
to protect their newly acquit ed position.
The Germans were shelling ecn moro
desperately In nn effort to dislodge tho
French and launch counter-attacks.
The stupendousness of this gicat artillery
strugglo was Indescribable. The cursing
line of flro extends from the French posi
tions beforo Clery, north of the .Somme, to
St. Quontln, thence south to tlio region of
Teronno and southwest to Barleu, IMrees
and Soyccourt. Shells of all calibers, both
shrapnel and high cxplosUe. burst nt ecry
instant at every point along tho entire front
with a rapidity which defied counting
For ono lono interval, by n beemingly
miraculously intervention, I was able to
count oft 15 seconds when not a single shell
Continued on Tate Fire, Column Three
Infantile Paralysis
in the Last 24 Hours
New cases in Philadelphia,... 3
Total cases in Philadelphia.... 21G
Deaths in Philadelphia 1
Total deaths in Philadelphia... 5G
Now cases in New York 113
Deaths in New York 31
New cases in Pennsylvania... 4
New cases in New Jersey 120
Department of Health comment on
weather forecast for Philadelphia and
vicinity until S p. m. tomorrow of "Not
much change in temperature" is that
with continuance of tho present rather
cool weather the fight to control in
ffintilo paralyain spread is materially
aiaca.
AH Sundny Schools In the city may he
closed, beginning next Sunday, ns .1 result
of tho Infniitllo paralysis outbreak In Phila
delphia. With moving plcturo theaters al
ready quarantined against thn attendance
ot children under 16 years of age a number
of persons bellovo tho quarantine will not
bo consistent until Sunday Schools also are
iiuuucu nui 10 open until all danger of
spreading tho disease Is past. Director
JCruscn will Issuo a statement tomorrow in
Ono hundred nnd forty Indictments
ngalnst alleged proprietors nnd Inmates of
dlsoidcrly resorts oln tho Tenderloin nnd
other sections ot tho city were returned to
day by the August Grand Jury. In addition
nix Indictments vvcro brought against per
sons alleged to ho conducting t.poakcaslcs.
Four of those Indicted on tho latter charge
llvo In South Philadelphia " Ono lives In tho
Tenth Ward. Senator JIcNIchol's ward, nnd
nnothcr lives In the Fourteenth Ward,
vvnero Congrosfimnn-nt-lnrgu John R. K.
Scott Is Republican lender
All of tho 14G persons Indicted today wcro
nrrestcd In the raid of July 15, when r.22
prisoners vveie taken The testimony against
them waH based largely on cvldenco brought
out before the July Grnnil Jury, which re
turned Its presentment last week after a
prolonged session.
376 CASKS RHMAI.W
In tho nbsenco from the city of District
Attorney Rotan, who Is taking a short
vacation, -his office was .icprcsented bys
Assistant District Attorney William Findlay
Rrown. Immediately after returning tho
truo Dills today tho grand Jury lesumed
consideration of tho remaining 376 casos
of persons arrested In tho raid Another
case to bo considered will ho that against
Magistrate Joseph Call, who Is accused of
having nccepted straw lull to the amount
of $8400 from Jowph Pcrrottl, who Is said
to own no real estate.
A summons for Pcrrottl to appear as n
witness has been Issued and police officials
aro searching for him In this city. Unless
ho can bo found It Is belloved that the case
against Call will bo severely handicapped.
Pcrrottl left Philadelphia shortly after
tho July Grand Juiy brought Its preci.i
ment and tho pollco wcro Informed that ho
was visiting a sick sister In Paterson. X. J.
The District Attorney's offlco learned to
SARATOGA RACING RESULTS
Ehst lace, maidens, 2-ycar-olds, $500 added, H fuilongs No
Ijrnskn, 115, Hoffmnn, 20 to 1, 8 to 1, 4 to 1, won; Vivid, 11C, Noltor,
C to 1, oven, 1 to 2. second Motcoiite, 11G, Mink, 3 to 5, 7 to 10,
2 to 13, thild. Time, 1.07 2-5.
Second race, stcoplcchaso handicap, 3-ycar-olds nnd tip, G00
added, nbout 2 miles Knight of Morel, 1-10, Henderson, 2 to C, out,
out, won; Early Light, 143, Kellehcr, 13 to 5, 1 to 3, out, second;
Ollle Byrnes, 140, Keating, 12 to 1, S to 5, out, third. Time, 4.20.
STEAMSHIP LINE FORMED FOR SOUTH AMERICAN TRADE
DOVER, Del., Aug. 1C The Rio do Jauelio Trnnspai ration,
Navigation and Public Servlco Company, of New York, was rb.pitit
hcie totlny with a capital of -55,000,000 to do n general nansiioitntxon
and navigation business in Riazil and other places. Robert A. Van
Voohies, Jeisey City; Arthur E. Oakley, Pearl River, N. Y., and Paul
. Biitsch, Biooklyn, H. Y., aro the incorporators. .
SOMME BATTLE ANOTHER ENDURANCE CONTEST ,
LONDON, Aug. 10. Tho battlo of tho Sommo and Ancro, despite tho terrific
and bloody rliniactcr of tho IlKhtlng', has developed Into a test ot endurance, nccord
Ins to u correspondent, who has been privileged to visit the German front. Ho
declare! thnt neither tlio French nor tho British have any chance of breaking;
through cccept In case tho Central KmplreH meet disaster on some other front.
The French, It is said, have niado no piogresn in tho last fortnight, nnd tho British
advance hns been slight.
Consomun'of opinion in dispatches printed In Amciicnn newspapers today from
rorrespondents on -vniloiiH frontw of the western war zono confirms tho "View set
forth In tho foregoing London dispatch.
NDW TORK, Aug-. 16. The problem of
averting a railroad strike that would
paralyze the tmnic of the country still rests
with President Wilson.
Tho 600 district chairmen of the big- four
brotherhoods, representing tho 400,004
trainmen, today accepted the President's In
vitation to confer with him In Washington
tomorrow. No other decision woo .reached
at tnelr meeting here, however, and the sit
uation continues deadlocked.
Tho commutes chairman left for Wash
ington this afternoon with W. S. Carter,
head of tiio firemen's brotherhood, with
their demnnds for an eight-hour day and
t ,110 and n half for ovcrtlmo unamended
and backed up by a oto to strike If they
aro rofuscd.
Cartor regarded tho situation as serious
as nt tho oponlng.of negotiations, but said
thero was still "room for hope."
IIo explained that only tho chairmen had
tho power to agrco to a compromise, such
as was suggested by President Wilson with
tho railroads granting the eight-hour day
for a time under tho present system of
overtime. For this reason tho prcsenco of
the COO chairmen Is necessary In Washing
ton. ,
NEW BRITISH LOAN OF 5250,000,000 ANNOUNCED
NEW YORK, Aug. 1U. Tho details ot tho now British loan wero announced bv
J. I'. Morgan & Co. today. Tho Issue will bo for ?250,000,000 In two-year B per
cent secured loan gold notes to bo dated September 1, 1310, with Interest payable
semiannually. At tho option of tho Urltlsh Government tho notes may bo redeemed
In vvholo or in part on 30 days' notlco on nny day until and Including August 31,
1017, nt 101 nnd accrued Intel est nnd on any day thereafter until their expiration at
100VS, with accrued Interest. Tho loan will bo seemed by tho doposlt with tho
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company of New York of $300,000,000 worth of securities,
which havo been approved by Morgan & Co. Ono purpose of tho loan Is to stabilize
oxchange between tho two countries. Tho loan will bo underwritten at 9S and issued
to tho public at 09.
Continued on l'nge To, Column Vour
DEPOSITORS CLAMOR
FOR FUNDS IN 'SCARE'
AT NORTH PENN BANK
Continued on Pate Two, Column Tun
'QUEEN OF CHINATOWN'
LAUNDRY RAID CAPTIVE
Held With Two-Other Women.
Accused of Leading Girls
Into Tendexio'in
A '0-year-old girl, haggard and hardened
by life in the underworld, faced Magl&trato
Tracy today while policemen testified that
she led girls into the Tenderloin introducing
them to cninese f3"o " - ii
known to the police as "Queen of Chlna-
Wlth her were arraigned, two other girls
and three Chinese, accused of harboring
elrls n tho rear of a laundry at Ht North
Ninth street. The Eleventh and Winter
Btreets station, where the hearings were
held was oovvded with Chinese and
habitues of the Tenderloin, friends of the
PrwhleStbe Magistrate was hearing testi
mony the mother of Ella Miller, one of the
dafendants, communicated with the police
on the telephone. She said that Klla had
left her home. 2205 Silver street, several
days ago and that she had not heard of her
nines Th girl, according lo the police,
had been residing at 1226 fa'outh Twenty
elfthth street, where Uns Sing and Harry
Mov had a laundry. May Long was also
there. It is said:
All of the defendants were held under
IE00 ball for a further hearing to bp held
li. Vririav They produced the ball and the
Miller girl went home to her parents. The
Magistrate questioned the Smith girl.
What caused your trouble ? he Inquired
nldn't your mpther take care of you and
see that you didn't run around at nights?"
"An no; don't blame It on her." the
young' woman answered "You can't rH
a bad tee " , , . . ,,,., .
The laundry was raided at midnight last
night by Sergeant McGregor, of the Elev
enth and Winter streets fetation. District
uetectiva Mature and Policeman Taylor
it was testified that he "Queen of China
town" had brought girls to the Tenderloin,
ind ttuit in Doa.e noses they had been Uvine.
tbr tf serI iftottt.
ONE KILLED, THREE HURT
AS AUTO STRIKES POLE
J. P. Dwyer Dies in Accident
Near Penrose Ferry Bridge.
Others in Hospital
One man WM3 killed and three Injured
when an automobile struck n telegraph
pole on Penrose Ferry road near the Penn
sylvania railroad shortly before 6 o'clock
this morning.
The dead man Is Joseph P. Dvvyef,53
years old, of 1619 Snyder avenue. He was
pronounced dead at the Methodist Hospital
Those injured were Harry Raker, pvvner
and driver of he car, 1734 West Passyunk
avenue; Kdward Coyle. 24U South Six
teenth street, and James Murphy, 21 n
soum aeventeentn street. Tl lr Injuries
are only slight. They were treated at the
Methodist Hospital and later were arrested
by District Detectives Cope and Keenan
of the Twentieth and Federal streets station,
to be held as material witnesses.
The acoldent, according: to the police, was
due probably to the wet streets. The ma
chine, it is said, was golngr soUthion Pen
rose Ferry road at a hleh rate of speed
when It skidded, smashed into a telegraph
pole, throwing Its ooeunants out Jika
catapult
Dwyer was picked up unconscious. His
skull was fractured and his Jaw broken
Ha died before reaching the hospital Baker,
the driver, became panic-stricken afte. the"
accident, the police say He ran away,
but was later located by the police.
Rumor Starts Run, Despite
Fact Institution in North
west Is Declared Solvent
by Officials
U. S. STEEL SELLS AT 90 H ; HIGHEST SINCE 1910
NEW YORK, Autr. lfi. United States Steel reached tlio hlRlicst price today
Mace 1010 when It sold at 90?t beforo the closo of tho morning session and seemed
to Rlvo cni'ouiiiKemont to tho rest of tho mnrket, which became stronger as the
trading continued.
RIVER ZEPHYRS SOUND FIRE ALARMS IN CAMDEN
Two stray Delaware River zephyrs cnllcd out tho Cumdcn firefighters and
attracted laigo crowds to tho Victor Talking Machine Company plant on two sep
arato occasions today, when tho twisted wires of tho electric flro nlurm system enme
In contact. Tho origin of tho uluims was u mystery until investigation showed
that tho vvhes, tangled by a falling pjeco of lion, had beeu blown together by tho
wind.
OFFER 1000 REWARD
A run on savings deposits In tho North
Pcnn Hank, Twenty-ninth and Dauphin
streets, assumed largo proportions today,
necessitating a hurry call for a detail of
policemen from the Twenty-sixth and York
streets station. The run started Monday,
following a rumor that tho departure of
one of the directors last week meant losses
for depositors.
With nearly 500 excited depositors, num
bering many women, clamoring for ndmls
slon, the directors of the bank, nftcr a
hasty conference, offered a reward of $1000
for the arrest of the person who started
the rumor. A large sign to that effect was
hung over the entrance.
Dollar far dollar was paid to those who
demanded It,' according to Italph T. Moyer,
cashier, who issued the following state
ment: The bank Is absolutely solvent.
Numerous other banks havo offered
assistance, but we have not found It
necessary to accept the offers. The
city of Philadelphia has made no move
to withdraw the $14,000 which It has
deposited here. We are pujing every
cent demanded, notwithstanding the
fact that we are not required to pay
the ta ngs deposits without two
weiks' notice and the Christmas fund
until December IE. Tlje total amount
withdrawn will not aggregate 125,000,
whereas the day's deposits are $50,000.
To counteract the run, which affected
only the small savings deposits, business
men friendly to the bank hurriedly collected
sums and deposited them. This re-established
the confidence to a large extent and
the crowd dwindled to lew than 109 persons
this afternoon. The bank Is Incorporated
under a State charter, wl(h a capital of
$150,000 and a reported, surplus on April
29 ot J83.955
The director who left Jast week was S
J Rlfben, for many years a shoe dealer at
Twenty-ninth pud Fletcher streets. Bank
officials stated today that he was still & at
rector ot tha bank and had icons West only
to look after some mining Interests.
$5000 DAMAGE DONE BY BLAZE IN GAS COMPANY OFFICE
Fire, which started In tho engine room of tho Northern Liberties Gas Company,
damaged tho building, at B0 Laurel street, today to tho extent of $5000. An explosion
followed the discovery of the flro, and nlthough It rocked the building and shattered
several windows, none of tho emplojes wero Injured. Ofllcftils of tho company nro
unable to account for tho origin ot tho flro and tho cause of tho explosion.
PENROSE AND SMOOT OPPOSE REVENUE BILL
WASHINGTON, Aug. 16. Only Senators Penrose and Smoot of tho seven
Republican members of tho Senate Finance Committee appeared at today's meeting
to voice tho Republlcnn opposition to tlio emergency revenue bill. Their objection
was quickly ovenlddon nnd the bill ordered reported by a straight party Vote.
Senator Simmons, chairman, Immediately laid the bill before tho Senate. Senators
Penroso and Smoot told Senator Simmons tha Republicans would require three or
four days to present their case against the hill on tho Senate floor.
JAGOW DISCLAIMS GERMAN DESIGNS ON INDIES
BERLIN, Aug 16. Foreign Secietary von Jagow today flatly denied that Ger
many ever had any designs on the Danish West Indies. "I only know of these re
ports through the newspapers," bald the Foreign Secretary, "but of ono thing I am
absolutely certain; that is, that Germany is antagonistic to nobody and has no Inten
tion of disturbing tho sovorelgn rights of any Power In that part of the world."
HARRISBURG FIRM GETS SHELL ORDER FOR BRITAIN
HARRISHURG. Aug. 16, Orders for making 200.000 high explosive steel shell
formings, of the 4 5 Inch size", ha,ve been received by the Harrlsburs PIpo nnd Pipe
Bending Company from the British Government, it was announced by ofliclala of
the company today. Work will be started nextweek and will bo filled by the
close of the year.
PENROSE INQUIRY RESOLUTIONS AMENDED ARE PASSED
WASHINGTON, Aug. 16. Senator Penrose's resolutions designed to show the
Democratic Administration's alleged violation of the civil service wero adppted by
the Senate this afternoon without objectlqn after they had been amended to carry
a back-fire against previous Republican administrations.
P. O. S. OF A. DECLINES ALIEN-BORN APPLICATIONS
ATLANTIC CITY, Aug. 16. Holding that In the face of existing: International
conditions no American patriotic organization could afford to throw down the bar
riers and welcome foreign-born citizens Into Its ranks, the New Jersey State
Camp, Patriotic Order Sons of America, today refused to give serious consideration
to proposals for admission of candidates of alien birth.
POLICEMEN'S OLD EXPENSE BILLS PAID BY CITY
Clerks of the Police Bureau are pacing policemen and detectives their extra
expense money for the first six months of the year at City Hall today. About
$6000 i being paid to 136 men to cover their carfare, extra, meals and other expense
while working on investigations. The men bare not received their expense money
r 1915. It U la the loan authorized for maintenance and deficits.
DETAILS OF SETTLEMENT
ON RAILROAD DISPUTE TO BE
SUBMITTED BY PRESIDENT
WASHINOTON, Aug. 16. One of the
most dramatic Incidents In the history of
American labor will be enacted tomorrow In
the Cast Room of the White House, when
600 rallrond workers, representing 400,000
of their follows, will hear from President
Wilson his reasons for believing they can
settle their differences with their employers
without using their threatened weapon
paralyzatlon of transportation.
Tho men nro coming to hear the appeal
the President hns made to their subcommit
tee hero. Word was communicated to tho
President at 12:30 that tho conference in
New York between tho delegates of the
general committee nnd W. S. Carter, of the
subcommittee, had resulted In nothing defi
nite beyond ngrcement to hear him. Ar
rangements wero mado Immediately at the.
White Houso for tho president to receive
them tomorrow.
PLAN OF AGREEMENT.
With tho ngreemnt by the managers' to
oc.cept the baslo principle of the eight-hour
dny, provided the question of overtime shall
be submitted to an investigation, employes
today wcro considering a proposition em
bracing the eight-hour day temporarily,
with present rates for overtime. Both sides
would yield somewhat from their original
stand The railroads would concede tha
eight-hour day, with Its resultant Increase
In wages to tho men. The men would yield,
for a time at least, their demand for tlma-and-n-half
overtime.
By submitting the elght-hdur principle
to a try-out ' and investigation each side
would be taking equal chances.
The employes Insist the railroads or the
President suggest the means of investiga
tion nnd allow them to pass on It One
plan discussed Is that advanced by the
Indus-trial Relations Commission. This was
that In case of a disagreement, Buch as the
present, a board of mediation and Investi
gation should be created to Include ons
member from each side, a third to be
chosen by the two selected, or by the Presi
dent. It would be necessary, then, to give
by legislative enactment powers to tha
board to administer oaths, subpena wit
nesses, compel attendance and testimony
and demand production of pertinent evi
dence from both sides.
FOR SIX MONTHS' TRIAL.
It is understood the employes may be
willing or at least are considering a six
months' trial of the proposition comprising
an eight-hour day and present rate for over
time. Within this tlma it would be possl.
ble to create a board of mediation and In
vitation and have Congress grant it tha
powers required to determine the practi
cability of applying the eight-hour day to
railroad operation, time and a lyvlf over
time and other questions involved in the
present dispute.
While the President today temporarily
ceased his activities as mediator pending
the conferences held by the employes and
managers In New York and Washington.
Administration officials appeared hopeful
that with the resumption of direct efforts to
morrow It will be possible to establish the '
groundwork for settlement.
Mrs. DrexeJL Blovea to Insure Alimony
LONDON, Aug. 16 Qn application Of
Mrs. Anthony J. Droxel tha high court to.
day appointed an Interim receiver of the
money paid by the Government for Mr.
Drexel'B yacht, the Sayonara, whJj Is un
der charter to the Admiralty. Unfitly Mrs.
Drexel brought suit to recoverWioney ou
an, alimony contract and won. tW actlofl
today was taken to Insure payment-
English Earl Weds California Girl
LONDON. Avg H Earl 1 potteolMss
and Mtsa PatricU Burke, ot California. rr
inarrljrt today t fit gauge's, lia.
square. VTh bride wax siva in aourbupi
by WaJtw Wlftaasr. fcrBiwly of Balttwuirs. 3
-.
