THE ABlZONA REPtJBLiCAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTjY-SEVENTH YEAB
8 PAulvi4
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, AUdUST 16, 191G
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 90
TO AWT
I
OUT
D
0
OONFERENC
STDT
MM.
w
R
Russians, North and South, Continue Advances Against Austrians
FBI W4R IF NF.fF.KARY Tft FWFftRf if Mf. HTQ
IIJLJLA1. Aft MyjMAUVJl JLAH J. IV Ulll VllVLl I11VI11 1 U
una in mm
GALIGIATOHUNGARIAN PLAINS
FALLSBEFOHEHUSSIAHDFFENSIVE
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wirt,
The Russians have captured Jablonitza, one of the principal gateways
from Gaticia to the Hungarian plains, and Petrograd reports that their of
fensive in this direction is continuing. This is the first news of an advance
lay the Russian southern army since the conquest of the Austrian crown
land of Bufcowina was completed.
Farther to the north, the Russians are continuing their driving opera
tions against the Austrians with apparently uninterrupted successes. Their
troops are pouring across the Zlota Lipa at several points in spite of des
perato resistance on the part of the Teutonic forces. Fierce fighting is being
waged along the entire line south of Brody, and General Brussiloff appar
ently is making a supreme effort to cut off the army of General von Both
mer and force its surrender.
As tar as the other theaters of war are concerned, main interests cen
ters in the Italian operations, no important action being reported on either
the British or French fronts.
Th Italians are vigorously pressin- their advance on the Carso plateau
and Rome reports the capture of several sections of Austrian trenches. Un
. official dispatches from Italian sources claim that General Cadorna is now
within seventy-three miles of Triest and that the Austrian fleet has left the
harbor.
The Austrian official statement reports the repulse of Italian attacks
in the Vipacco valley, about 18 miles east of Gorizia, but the official state
ments from both side are very meager and leave the general situation vague.
Press dispatches from Geneva and Paris declare that Tolmino, considered
one of the most formidable barriers between the Italians and Triest, it
being evacuated by the Austrians and that the Italians already are in the
suburbs of th town. " -
The Germans admit that the British have. obtained a foothold in their
trenches on the Tiepval-Poiieres front and report the repulse of violent at
tacks by the British and French in other sectors of the Somme line. Ac
cording to Paris and London, the day passed without any event of sig
nificance. ,
Another report of fighting on the Balkan front comes from the Berlin
war office, which states that a small engagement occured south of Lake
Dcran. There have been several repotts of fighting in this theater recently
and all have come from German or Bulgarian sources. As on previous oc
casions, Berlin claims that the fighting was of small importance and re
sulted in a repulse for the entente allies. London and Pans both remain
silent as to the situation at aoionixi.
i THIRD MAN REFUSES
I PLACE ON COMMISSION
WASHINGTON'. An. 15. The I
! third man originally selected ly
I President Wilson to serve wi'li
I Secretary Ixne and .Instl-e I
! Br.ir.deis on the commission l '
compose Mexican border trouble !
I has declined to serve, it boc.ini''
i known tonight. Mr. Rrandei;;
also has declined ami the prosi- ;
I 'lent is said to bp considering a :
long list of available men for up- i
poinlments In the twj places. Th" !
name of the third man Ninons
the criginal selections never has I
I been divulged. I
I i
iQflVQ PIMTflRWI
1 1 in i ii in i m
I w w sBssa w I r I
ma i
i
i
p n nnrnrii
anuuLUdtntnL'
U. S. TROOPERS FIRED
ON BY MEXICAN OFFICER
T T HI!
ALL ISSUES (S
1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Dol'GI.AS, Ariz.. Auk. 15. Six
Russians Deliver
Another Telling
BlowonAiistriansTZ
Ml
BIC OFFENSIVE
IS about oe
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TACOMA. August 15. Charles
j shots
were fired by a Mexican at
members of the Second Montana in
fantry on duty Sunday afternoon an
border guards, at the -regimental
lamp two miles west of Douglas, it
whs reported at the ramp today.
The .Mexican, who was an officer.
was said ,t have ridden out of Agua
uglics told an audience in Tacoma s n.,,.,a rnw-d by another horseman
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN, Auguts 13 (via London.
August 15. The worst of the Anglo
French offensive on the Somme is
over, In the opinion of German officers j platform plank of 1912 relating to the
stadium today that he would not
shrink from war in enforcing Ameri
can rights abroad.
Mr. Hughes read the democratic pro
gram of 1912 declaring for the protec
tion of American rig:i;s abroad.
"I want that maile real." the nom
inee said, "I do not think In making
that real that we encounter the dan
ger of war. I would not shrink from it
if we did in performing the obvious j
iluty
Mr. Hughes confined his remarks al- j
mom wnouy to wnai ne termed me
need tor a protective tariff.
"I propose a wise tariff without
abuses," he said, "but frankly a tariff
to build up and maintain American in
dustries." Mr. Hughes reviewed democratic
tariff legislation und the democratic
apparently a soldier and his orderly.
Heat nine; a point on the road to Naeo,
Soiiorn, ubotit eleven hundred yards
south of the border, the officer dis
mounted, was seen through classes to
the sights and deliliorately fire six
shots in the dirction of the border,
the. guardsmen say. All of the shots
fell short by a considerable distance.
After emptying the rifle, the Mex
ican remounted and rode westward at
a gallop, followed by his companion.
The American sentries did not re
ply, not caring to. wnste ammunition
at so distant a target, it was said.
The .Montana camp hos been the
object fif attacks on several occasion.
Many' shots having been fired from
Mexican soil toward it during the
last three weeTts. It is presumed that
the Montana camp has been singled
out because it is the only one directly
take a riflf from his orderly, adjust on the border in this district.
Innnnnm rnn
FK KflV HIM
I UU I I LI 1 1
solidating their position won north
f Bvstntza and Dniester rivers and!
isissi'ily f- await the nearer ap-
I oroach of General Seherkitchoff fr-wn
I I he west for a closer co-operation.
The if ceip: bv the slmh of Persia
reply from tne Con-
i "i.i in1 in, i it- fc, n oiiiviii. iu i ersiH s
puMicin A. P. Leased Wire nlt'mutum that a further movemerl
I'KTIt' "IR D" ug. l.'i. (Via l.nn-' f tho Turks beyond Kerman shah
,, i'i'ue Russians have captured ! would raise an open rupture, appears
.lablonitwi. one of the most Imisirtanl Mo be final.
I'-tlewav. through the Carpathians t j ; The ranid m-ssi.m advance In Gall
,h 11,,',,1-Mrn.n nlains and have taken i ' la continues. The announcement
i.erlv l.nu adilitlunal prisoners. -':
lording to an offwlal statement is
srde l.v the war office tonlcht.
The Russians have delivered an
other telling blow tisainst the right
llank of Ut-neial von Bothmer's re
treating army at Trustohaly, thrw
miles -west of 2lota Lipa and north
west of Mo-.asterry.ka-
Th" Austrians crossed the river a
Korjorba, under the shell fire of the
Russian batteries, suffering heavy
losses. While shells raked the Aus
trians from across the river the Rus
nans moved tip lrom the south where
ih-y had been expanding their posi
tions, 'fhev poured a grilling fire
from machine guns on the Austrians.
who withstood the hussian attack
for five hot.rg and then fell back four
miles to the west.
Northward, battles are racing w.'th
terrific intensity along the Zlota Linn,
the Russians having succeeded at
several other points In gaining si
foothold on the west bank. General
Sakharoff has made a considerable
advance In the last, thirty hours
saainst the left flank of General von
J'otiirner's pew (sisilions. He has cut
the Tarnopol-I,emberg railway at a
new iKii.it, Zbcrow. where the road
rosses the Strtpa river, driving fur
ther home the vclge between thfl
n ii?r evening or August 14 a
German albatross apieared over the
town of NesviJ. A Russian aviator
'rove it to earth. The wojr.ded pilot
and the observer were captured.
"Our advance westward in, the re
gion of tht' nrper Stripa is eontinu
ng. On the rivers Zlota Lipa and
I'vstrifa-Sototvina our troops are
erossing successfully to the western
banks.
( aurasian front: Our offensive In
ihc region of Sakkiz. Persia, resulted
iu our capture of a very strong Turk
ish position in the vicinity of this
town. The enemy, ptirstft'd by our
raPrtlry. is retreating hurriedly to the
south
cn the Baltic sea on Monday
morning two r.f our hvdroplanes nn
dertook a d if ing raid on the enemy's
scrdome near Ike Aijcra in Cour-lund.''
on that front, although it is concedeiT
that the efforts of the entente allied
troops to pierce the German lines
probably have not ended. This belief
was expressed confidently literally
dosens of times to an Associated ITess
correspondent during a four-day trip
along the front from a point not fur
from i'eronne In a southeasterly direc
tion. The more optimistic think that the
offensive can already be said to tie
over. All agreed that any appreciable
future advance by the entente allies
was, in their opinion, out of the ques
tion. An Interesting feature of nearly
every conversation with German of
ficers who ranged from subalterns on
the actual front to generals slightly in
the rear, was the universal mention of
the huge amounts of gas and incendi
ary iKimbs which had leen used and
the difficulties in combating this style
of fighting. All were united in un
grudging and generous praise of the
fighting qualities of their opponents.
The Correspondent's trip was so
planned that it was possible to see an
infinite variety of defensive methods
employed from huge mortars that
I seemeu to snoot, unceasingly, gas
masks which must be available In
stantly, everywhere observation points
constructed t every vantage point,
captive balloons, aeroplanes and even
carrier pigeons which were kept in the
front trenches against the ossibility
of the destruction of all means of com
munication. -
A dramatic climax to the trip was
the night battle which was viewed from
te so-called fighting station com
manded by the captain who acted as
guide. It was nearly midnight when
the captain led the way from his
quarters past a shell-riddled field to
an observation point nuui into tne top
pple tree. Krom this post, the
tariff
"Our opponents ?aid they would re
duce the cost of living," he said. "Be
hold the result.
"Through an unfortunate develop
ment In the republican party which is
now happily healed, our opponents got
DEFENSES IS
III
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. IS. Congress
virtually completed tiie aational de-
ap
oower and thev did not reduee the r..t i tense program today by final!
of living. We don't propose that the j Paving the great increases in naval
shortcomings of the administration construction and personnel written in
w it'll respect to the protection of I to ,he naval bill and urgently sup-
American industries shall be foreot-t l'i "e administration.
Italians Still Gaining
LOMhiN. Aug. IT,. The Italians r.t un .
are making rapid strides Jn their whoie front waB visible for a distance
Z .ii '""""T- lof twelve to fourteen miles.
.North or Gorizia, they have reached The heavllv clouded sky was li
the suburbs or Tolmino, eighteen ,jminated as "if with lightning by the
miles northeast of Gorusia. according bursting shells from the French guns
to unofficial rnesfuges, which report a few miles away, and the answering
me, city on fire and In proces of , fir .,t ih i:.Mn t,i.,.H,.u ,f nil
k from
imbard-
rmie- of General von Rotrmcr and 1 6va, r" y- Austrians. Motif h- i calibers. The earth fairly shoo
ien'ial von Bochm-Ermolll before I3; . V"1'"": "Pedal dispatches as- the intensity of the mutual boi
mdv. ' J '. tn. Italian advanee guard Is'ment and speech was difficult b
The idv-.net on Maliez has slowed ""hln thirteen miles of Triesf. nt the steady and almost der
--.M'L. yiJl"',",!,n" r rnn" (Continued on Page Two.
ITAL AN
DREADNAUGK
TBLOWS
UP AND THREE H UflDHED ARE LOST
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PARIS. Ait- tr, -The Italian navy
has !o". one of its big drBdn nights,
according 'o a Turin dispatch, which
fits of the blowing up of the 22, lino
ton I-on.irilo )a Vinci in Taranto
harbor, as the rr.sult of a fire some
time in, August, of tfc0 crew 31";
were drowned.
The fire, rnvx the. dispatch, wns
discovered in' the , dreadnaupht's kit
chen nnd spread rnpidly. The cap
tain Immediately ordered the maga
ine flood, d and trid to beach the
battleship, hut one magazine exulnded
efore this cn-d be ilone. The ves
wl w-ts .urned over on her Bide and
a lart;e nuin vr of the crew were
thrown Into the se.t.
It is believed that the battleshln
ran be rlgt ted and refloated. t
The Ioniir-lo )a Vinci was agis
ter ship of the Cortc di favour and
of the Glullo Cesare and was launch
ed in October, 191 1. Her displace
ment was 22.fl(i(i ons and she was
r.TM feet long. ftl feet is-am an-1
earned a total of 97r, men. Her mair.
battery consisted of thirteen 12-lncli
Mins and her secondary battery to
Hand off torpedo attacks comriosert
eighteen 4.7-incli guns. Her engines
were of LM.Onn horsepower, designed
to develop a Sliced of 22.5 knots.
SAY KINO CONFESSED
peech was unricuit because
of the steady and almost deafening
rumble and crash of the explosions.
The captain laughingly declared that
he enjoyed his present life in the open
air better than his previous existence
in Berlin.
Like all regimental and corps com
manders who were interviewed, t,he
i captain spoke admiringly of the re
markable bravery of his Knglish and
French opsnents. The Knglish forty
.centimeter guns are said to be partic
ulalry destructive and the (iermanX es
timate that they are opposed on this
front by about four thousand cannon
of all slaes. The spirits of the men do
not seem in the least depressed by the
offensive and the officers say that the
soldiers are hard to hold in hand after
wood, a suburb. The police declare
King has confessed. - The robber en
tered the bunk at noon and while be
covered the assistant msliier grabbed I a long artillery bombardment, and out
:"( on the counter and fled in an ! of relief at its cessation, unnecessarily
automobile. King was arrested In a ! expose themselves in Infantry actions
downtow n rooming house. He es- i The dispatch ends abruptly at this
raped Sund-iy from the county , Jail point, apparently having been cut short
""' ne was a trusty, uy tne censor.)
Slow Rate of Progress is
x Due to Methodical Moves
Republican A. p. Leased Wire '
IjENVER. Aug. i:..-Norval S.
" King win nrrested by the police to
night in connection with the robbery
of the First National Bank of Ingle-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i cm front Is the nature of the Teu-
PARIS, Aug. 15. The apparent tonic positions which prohibit -the
slow rate of progress by the French ' ,",e ' ,he w'nBs of the entente ar
sn.l British forces on the western mH. The Russians. hovever, face
front since July 1, as compared with , no "1,(h obstacle, l he Russian opeia
that of the Russians oTi the eastern' tlons, it la explained further, have not
front. It Is evoluineri in .nu I been chinned with political chnsidera-
dreles here. Is due to the methodical tion in view, such as necessarily have
nature of the entente offensive! arisen on the western .front, owing to
sg'iinst a line of strongly fortiricd ' ,h cn-opcratlon of various entente
positions extending virtually from the armies.
North Sea. to Salonikl and the fact' The methodicnl, if relatively slow
thit Infantry must wait? until the ar- olicy of the entente lenders on the
tillcry has done its work. The front western front, is held here to be con
of the central powers in the western i firmed bv the fact that the losses In
theater of the war Is much morel th-j field are much smaller as com
strongly fortified than the front wit' pared with what they were curlier in
which the Russian armies have to the war. Since Julv L the entente
deal, so the hitter tire In a better ; losses haw been only about one-fifth
situation for maneuvering on a large of what thev were during the push
("'file. I n Chnmpngsie last fall, t r during the
One of the principal drawlocks first months of the battle of Verdun,
agalntt the entente allies of the west- it is claimed.
ten. They want to forget them. They
think that the Kuropean war, like
charily, covers a multitude of sins "
Mr. HiiL'bes referred to a statement
Issued by Secretary McAds soon after
the war started In 1914. in which it
was announced that t500.0Wi.0Ou In
emergency currency was available to
relieve financial distress.
"Our opponents had to resort to a
republican measure of precaution, the
Vreeland law," he said, "to still the fear
that their policy hsd engendered
among the people of this country. It
was that republican measure that took
us through that critical period."
Reverting to the-tariff, Mr. Hughes
asked why the democratic party want
ed a tariff commission.
"Do they want a commission to
frame a tariff for revenue only?" he
asked. "I want a tariff commission
for the iurMse of carrying out the
protective principle. t block it."
The anti-dumping provision of the
pending revenue bill was discussed by
Mr. Hughes.
"I have had some experience with
statutes, he said. And if that stat
ute works it will be tremendous sur
prise to me."
Mr. Hughes left at 4:40 p. m. for ( a week.
The house accepted the building
program, to which its conferees on the
measure had refused to agree, by a
vote of 2S3 to 51. with seven of the
niembars present not voting. The er
sonnel increase, in which there also
was a disagreement in conference,
were approved without a record vote.
The personnel and construction sec
tions, which already have the approval
ef the senate, authorizes increase In
enlisted men to 74,7("i and the build
ing of 157 war vessels within the
next three years with four battle
cruisers and four battleships, included
among the ships for 1917.
Previously, the house had refused to
adopt a continuing building program,
had authorized only five capital ships,
"all of them battle cruisers and had
provided for a personnel of only
65,(MKI.
On several less imimrtant sections,
including appropriations for improve
ment of navy yards, the house insisted
on Its disagreement to senate increases
and toted to send th" bill buck to con
ference for settlement of these points.
An early agreement is expected, how-
over, and the measure may be sent to
the president for his signature within
E
SPENDS ENTIRE
TIT
Seattle to fill a speaking engagement.
I Says Navy Undermanned
SKATTLK, August IS. In his speech
at the arena here tonight Mr. Hughes
assailed the administration for Its pre
paredness iwdicy, declared that he had
been Informed and believed the navy
was undermanned and lacked supplies
and equipment,' and pledged himself,
if elected, to see that both the army
and navy had "efficient leadership."'
"A nation must be ready for every
emergency." the nominee said. "Wo
arc not militarists. I cannot but bo
amused at some of tne bogies my good
friends conjure up when we speak on
that subject.
"There is no reason, why we should
not be prepared. There is no reason
why we should Invite disrespect and
contempt because we are not reason
ably and adequately prepared.
"Reasonable preparedness is simply
national common sense. I confess I
do not like the way the present ad
ministration lias dealt with this mat
ter. It learned its own mind too late
and even then it wnan't sure of it. We
had difficulties to the south of us thnt
were at least suggestive. Soon the
whole world was concerned with mili
tary matters. It was not a time when
one could be surprised."
1'er.sons who urged the administra
tion to prepare, Mr. Hughes said, wero
called nervous and excited. Suddenly
Secretary Daniels Issued a statement
tonight, pointing out that the building
authorizations in the bill were .the
greatest ever passed In any country,
and would give the I'nited States the
Second Inreest nnvv In the n-nrlil Fie
j Wil i rn,1 I l.n ... n ...... m .. .1 I
ii... in, a. -.hit- i (uric nrru
nearly perfect that it will stand as a
model for all navy bills for future
legislators."
The vote by which the house
accepted the senate increase In the
building program was non-partisan,
the majority of both democrats and
republicans voting in the affirmance.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WITH THE BRITISH ARMY IN
FRAN'K (via London!, Aug. 15.
King Georse has been at the front
'or a week. He left today for Eng
land, and his departure was the first
information that the majority of the
trcops had of his presence. As :i
matter 'if precaution the visit was
kept a see't ar.d there was no dis
play or big reviews as un the oc
casion of y;!S visit Inst fall.
The king simply went about seeing
nil sections of the army at work
and the fi 'lds it had won. The flut
ter of a bit" of bunting bearing the
royal co-it o' arms as a motor car
ped alng the roads in clouds of
J:rt and motor truck drivers and
I asinc battalions started and looked
around elaiming, "the king" The
Prince of Wales was with the king
all of the time. The monarch was
ilresseil in khaki, with the crossed
bmons of a field marshul on his
houlders and the .prince wore the
uniform of t lieutenant in the Gren
adier Guards.
At one point on the line the king
met General Sir Henrv Rawlinson,
commander of the Fourth army,
which deii.ered the main attack, aijjf
Major General Congresve, whose
corps stormed Montaul.an ariti 'a
metz. Alighting from his autf m ibile
near Krienurt the king went into the
first line of r.ritish trenches from
which the British made their charge.
"Now 1 will breast the parapet as
my men did." he said. Mounting it,
he walked across the old No Man'3
Land nnd saw the effects of thb
British Fhell fire on the maze of for
tifications and trenches which the
British find wrested from the Germans.
When the king wanted to descend
one of the deep German dugout-i,
Geneial I.awlinsni warned h'm that
they had not all been cleaned out xvi
and u hen the king came back up the
steps sniffing ce said: "It smells
prett Kt-.;ng." Remarking on the
depth and spaeiousncss of the dug
outs, with their bed-, taiiles and
chairs, he said to some soldiers of a
reserve 'a.ttalion stationed at that
negative, there were thirty-five demo- point. "K identlv the Germans ex-
( Continued on. Page Two)
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page Two)
o
Babes Recovering
From Plaque May
Be Lame for Life
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Aug. 15. Children who
have recovered from Infantile paraly
sis are being discharged from his
pitals. although still suffering from
the effects of the disease, Dr. Haven
Emerson, health commissioner, de
clared in a statement tonight, require
expert orthodeplc treatment to escaie
becoming cripples for life.
The commissioner was optimistic of
the ultimate recovery of the little pa
tients with proper treatment but he
held out scant hope for a cure in less
than two years.
It was announced that twenty
ounces of blood had been given today
by two persons for the manufacture of
serum. One of the young women who
recently gave her blood to help fight
the disease was Miss Houston Scott,
daughter of Major General Hugh U
Scott, chief of staff of the United
States army.
GERMANS RESENT CHARGES OF
INHUMANITY AND BRUTALITY
Republican A. P. Leased Wlrel
GFJtMAN ARMY HKADQUAR-'
TFRS ON TDK SO MM K FRONT,
August 13 (via Berlin and Ixmdon,
August 15). The Germans at the front
bitterly resent the charges of inhu
manity and brutality which have been
brought against them by their op
ponents. A number of German of
ficers who were interviewed by an
Associated 1'ress correspondent pro
tested strongly against what they
termed the campaign of defamation
which was being waged against them.
A high (ierman officer who has lec
tured on the variations of the present
offensive, said:
"We officers and men nt the front
are well informed on what our op
ponents and neutrals say of us. We
know that we are called hxins and bar
barians. Well, I can say it has not
softened our feelings any, nor will It.
The more the world howls for our de
struction, the harder we will fight, ahd
the last Knglishman will havp to face
the last German. We are neither hung
nor barbarians, and if severe measures
were resorted to by us they were the
outcome of the rnoft serious military
necessity. At any rate, slander can
not influence us except in an increas-
ern referred to the French and Eng
lish infantrymen as -poor devils" and
expressed the wish that peace would
soon end t lie useless carnage of hu
man beings.
"We are convinced oue-cause is Just,"
he said, 'and with this feeling goes the
conviction that we are still courageous
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 15 President
Wilson's efforts to bring the railroad
managers and the brotherhood leaders
together in some form of settlement
of the differences which threaten a
nation-wide railway strike, has, after
two days of conferences, progressed
only to the point here a ground
work for further negotiations has
Leon laid. .
Hope of arbitration of all issues
was given up today but the situation
was brightened by the possibility of
a settlement being reached by the
railroads conceding the principle of
the eight-hour day and both sides
settling collateral issues by some form
of negotiations as yet undetermined.
After conferring with President Wil
son tonight the employes' sub-committee
snt to New York for the 640
members of the general committer to
come to Washington in order to fa
cilitate negotiations. They are ex
pected here Thursday and probably
will see the president Friday. The
managers' committee will confer with
him again tomorrow.
Two official statements issued from
the White House during the day
merely stated that the discussions
still v ere in progress and that no re
port could be made on results.
The first statement issued by Sec
retary' Tumulty after the president
had met the railroad managers during
t!ie forenoon follows:
"The president spent an hour and
a half this morning with the repre
sentatives of the railway management
i ftr the conference he said it was
j impossible as yet to report on the
results; an teat ne could ray wis
that a very candid and honest dis
cussion was in progress about prac
tical basis of settlement."
Late in the day after the presi
dent's meeting with representatives
of the employes he made this state
ment :
"There is no change. There is an
earnest effort being made to work out
a settlement."
When It became clear that arbitra
tion .of the entire problem probably
never would be agreed to, but that
the railroads might concede the prin
ciple of the eight-hour day and dis
pose of other issues by some form of
negotiation, the president directed hta
energv toward obtaining expressions
from both sides on how negotiatjons
could be carried on. Direct confer
ences and inquiry by an Investigating
committee were sought and the pres
ident indicated his willingness to ap
point such a commission himself.
It was understood that the em
ployes' representatives offered no sug
gestions on this ffature- The rail
roads were reported to be ready to
concede the principle of the eight
hour dav on condition tiat all col
lateral issues be thoroughly investi
gated by the interstate commerce
commission or some other body. It
was not believed that a crisis would
be reached before Thursday. In th-?
meantime the managers and employes
will communicate with the interests
thev represent.
The decision to send to New York for
the general committee of the railway
employes was reached because the
sub-committee here is without power
to reach important decisions without
referring to the men in New York. It
was first sugested that the sub-committee
here go to New York, but the
president thought it would be better
to have the committee come here.
Thus far the president has not at
tempted to bring the two sides togeth
er on any concrete blanket proposal.
He is sounding sentiment on all phases
of the situation.
For a time today there was pro
nounced pessimism among administra
tion officials because of the complete
failure of effort to bring about any
agreement on any form of arbitration.
Suggestion of investigation by a com
mittee then was brought forward and
its reception aroused new hope that a
satisfactory solution might be found.
President Wilson devoted most of his
day to conferences with the managers
and the employes, seeing both sides
separately' as on Monday, and to a
meeting with Judge WMlliam L. Cham-'
hers, a member of the federal board of
mediation and conciliation.
Representatives of the railroads con
tinued meetings at their hotel for dis
cussion of the question. Representa
tives of the employes, however. Meld
no conferences except for informal con
versations in the lobby of their hotel.
Both sides continued reticent re
garding the discussions.
"The lamp of hope will continue to
burn until some one kicks It over," A.
R. sGarretson, spokesman for the em
ployes, said smilingly as he left the
White House. Nothing has been
and still able to defend the fatherland. done and "'hi"e undone. We will see
In the words of the good priest that j ,he president again whenever he de
he who dies for others has done 'much B"re8 Bee us'
and so our men face everything.'
(Continued on Fage Two)
Gives Battle Three Times to
Villa's Personal Following
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHltlUAHl'A CITY, Mex., Aug. IS
General Matias Ramos reported to
General Ti ?vino frrm Fscnlon, Chi
huahua, today that he had given bat
tle three times to Villa's personal
band during the two days previous,
irfllcting siitirn defeats each time.
The first skirmish whs with a
scouting party of eight Villistas,
whom Ramos killed five This ac-
ing determination to win. Our men tiou took place on the Isiguna ranch,
see oany wnai ine tot or tiermany 25 miles west of Fscalon. Continu
would be in the case the seat of war Ing his advice. Ramos ran on an ad
was transferred." sH vance forte of 30 bandits, who were
Similar sentiments were expressed routed leaving their dead behind and
by officers at every point on the front escaping in the dark,
visited by the correspondent. There I The next morning dust clouds be
was not the slightest Inclination to i lng sen in the distance, Ramos gave
under-rate tieir opponents, A gen- 1 chase nnd scattered a, large band,
which lost 20 dead and a number cif
prisoners. Among the captives was
a colonel, w'ho asserted that Villa was
personally directing the attack from
a safe distance. This officer gave un
jome documents that revealed the
mimes of citizens supporting Villa.
Ramos had altogether eight men
wounded and a captain killed. His
information Is that Villa maintained
his headquarters at San Juan Fau
tista, this region, and has less than
4un followers all told.
Thre. more arrests In Chihuahua
City tody In connection with the plot
attributed to Legalistas, resulted in a
priest nnnied Jose Arriola, Jesus Car
te rn, who formerly was & colonel in
V ilia's army, and Frrd Corral, a citi
zen, being placed behind the bars.
if
