T n ft vt i r.t
Tonlctt and TUrsi
cloudy, with local thunder i
MR. MERCHANT.
An ad In Ths Eagls will bring buyer
and seller together.
lie
AND PILOT
VOL XXX. NO. 195.
BRYAN, TEXAS, WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 16, 1916.
price 4.co per
fag fc
Sime Jme: First 3BM
Teutons
Crisco
Is pare and wholesome
and keeps well in warm
weather. ; V ..
FRESH STOCK
,4
Hardy Newton
L .1-1J-l--.iari.l-i n ri -infMMMMMWWMMM i m WWWl nw
RUSSIANS HI FOUGHT
WAY TO GARPATHIAUS
. - -. Y
MAY
BE
FLOOD
STATE GAME LAWS
OF CHEAP
LABOR
United States May Have to Prevent
Hungarians Flocking Here
After the War.
The Austro-German Losses on the Eastern Front
SinoA trip Npw Russian Offensive Have Been!
Vrxr Hpnw. th lNJnmher Rennrted as dant
ured Being More Than 358,000 The Russians
Have Now Fought Their Way Into the Car
pathian Mountains and Are Still Gaining
The Italians Have. Made Further Gains
Against the Austrians It is Stated Germany
Is Sending Troops to the Defense of Trieste.
DEI
MED
i . - - .
Stone's Wrapped Calm
Received Fresh Every Day, Try a Package
With Your Next Order h2 Pound
Package 10 Cents. '
Reid Bros.
mivinnjnjmriAruvv'ii"""i''ii'VY"" aaaaaaai
Ttudaoest. Hungary. Aug. 16. (Cor
respondence of the Associated Press.)
Hunaary, probably more than any fcu
ropcan nation. Is going to have to
erect restrictive barriers against the
miration of Its Inhabitants to Amer
ica after the war, In the opinion of
Dr. Gustave Grata, member f Parlia
ment and director of the Hungarian
Manufacturers' Association. At the
same time It the United "8tatea hopes
entirely to escape front an Inunda
iIaii nf so-called "cheap labor", It
must cooperate and Itself put up bar
rlers which shall help to keep out
the thousands who, Dr. Grati believes
iu want snd trr to forsake their
native country and Its heavy prob
lems. Dr. Grati ssys that he knowa from
personal Investigation thst the ten
dency to emigrate from agricultural
Hungary will be In strong contrast
to the tendency In Industrlaf Austria
and Germany to atay at home.
The cause for this tendency of
course, be explalna. Is to be found
In the fact that the agricultural work
er Is not going to be so fortunately
situated after the war as the Indus
trial man. especially as the worker
In Oermsny.and aa t part of Austria
who la probably going to find plenty
nt nrk st wstes blah enough to
offset the present and prospective
hlsh prices.
Yet, he believes, there will be some
tendency on the part of the skilled
laborer to go across to the new home.
His hope that thla Is going to be
' prevented during a critical period In
Europe lies not only In possible log
Islatlnn here, but In the repeated In
dlrstlons from America that sho
would like to check the number of
emigrant's coming to her.
PRAYER MEETING.
, ' sawae-asf;
There will be regular prayer meet
Ing at the Christian thurrh tonUht
l.el all members come.
J. C. WEI-TH
Fishing With Illegal Nets, and In
Closed Waters Is Fequent
Complaint
Austin. Tex.. Aug. 16. Despite the
efforts of the state fisb. game and
oyster department, the practice
Petrograd,' Aug. 16. (Bulletin
Between June 4th and August 12th,
General Bruslloffs forces have capt
ured more than three hundred and
fifty-eight thousand Austro-German,
the war office announced today.
Germans to the Rescue. ' j
Psrls. Au. 16. It Is reported that
of nermanv Is taklnc over the defenses
fishing with Illegal neta and In closed of Trieste and Is sending troops espc-
waters Is still prevalent, according daily organised lor mai purpose, snys
to H. T. Bailey, cHef game warden, a dispatch to the Temps from Milan.
. - . . . i i
He Is almost dally receiving reporxs. -
from deputies throughout the state ar eummsry.
... .. i...i. lonaon. Aug. Its. violent nom
Ul luvu Tiumiiuii. f
rx.... . ,tn r o n. bard men t was carried on last nigni
Ipt. one of the departments Ins pec- on the Verdun front at Thlaumont
. .1. k m Mrtinn of tha 1 Fleury. Faux and Chapltre, east t
IUTI IU iuv aa iuvi m f" - - ,
...I hm caused to be destroyed over.the Meuse. Along the greater part of
SO Illegal nets.
TAX- GATHERERS
111 ANNUAL MEET!"
the front the night passed quietly.
The Paris official report today says
a squadron of French and Italian
aeroplanes made a raid near Trieste
todsr and are reported to have In
flicted extensive damage. One French
icronlane waa lost
Further advancea for the Italians
Lt of Gorlzia. In which the Aus-
Collectora and Assessors Assemble at . , trenches along the alopes of the
Galveston for Thres-Dsy Session. Monte pecnka. 0n the northern edge
1 . r- . ..talAii v.M I.Vpn If. was
(Br Associated Pr.sJ I
Galveston. Tex.. Aug. 16.-The ""' - ... ..
teenth annual convention of State) Tne Kuss.an. n "
.7d County Tax Collector. Association , heights west of Wore khya an A
of Texas was opened here today for, "mo,. i - ""- j, .-.I
. . l laiyn region, i uc rcuveiau
a three days session. I;7 " ... .. M.Mnf
H n Terrell, state comptroller and, mem .7.
. ... i... hi. iiaiurimniit are. to me easi.
IU filial lira wi -'
on the program for addreases
MANAGERS
EMPLOYES COW
14 ROOM RESIDENCE
DESTROYED BY FIR
Horns of U J. Cox, With All Out
buildings, lis Burned Water
Preasufs Is Inadequate.
ire supi
;frointbeaiglB'tBe kitchen, on last
might destroyed the 14 -room residence
I . ir. ..J r.. T T " .v.
President Took No Steps In etrlkti"1 "r-u V" .
Matter Today-Will Receive Full ,n"r OI "nnm na "iocs greets.
Committee Tomorrow. ' .The house, which was one of the
.largest In the city, was all In flames
fBy Associated Press.? oeiore me lire was discovered, u ,
Washington, Aug 16. President waa about 8:15 and It Is the belief of
Wilson today decided to postpone .Mr. Cox that the fire started from
ftii-thor rnnfarenrea with renresenta-itha ranea In tha Vltrhftn ia lhara haA
... v. ( - ... ,
tlvea of the railroads and employes, been a fire there early In the even-
on tne sinae situation unui tomorrow waua .-nrs. cox a5. preparing
when he will receive the general com--supper. AM the outhomtes. which In-
mlttee of six hundred. In the mean- eluded a goad elaed birn. a wool
...... .i.. .
time me managers ana employes are
conferring among themselves
life. The burns are not at all serious.
but are very painful
F. A. Sommerlalte, who had a room
In the Cox home, also lost all his be
longings, consisting of clothing,
books, pictures and various other
articles. He Is secretary of the Bryan
Lodge, Sons of Herman, and his
books and papers of this order wers
lost ' Mr. Sommerlatte bad travekJ
widely and In bit travels had giCi-
ered together a valuable collection cX
books,, periodicals; papers, ptctart3
etc., and their loss Is a hard Mow.
aa they can never be replaced. Vr.
j Sommerlatte carried but $100 lnsnr-'
ance.
Tbe plan on which the President
Is working Is to put Into effect the
eight-hour day and the Federal com
mittee to Investigate the collateral la
sues. Tbe details of the plan have
not been worked out but It Is said
if the railroads conceded the eight
hour day the employes might be urged
to give up the time and a half demands.
Mr.
Terrell will discus the affairs of his
denartment as they relate to tax
collectors. A. T. Barrett a deputy,
Will Attend Conference.
New York. Aug. 16. 8lx hundred
general chairmen of railroad em
ployes announced today they would
leave on special trains thla afternoon
for Washington to accept President
Wilson's invitation to confer on the
strike problem.
May Publish Remarks.
Washington, Aug. 16. After speak
ing tomorrow to the representatives
la .n ana a an
vantB house about 15 feet sonar,
also wire totally destroyed. Thre
wre fl- ,ys In the .-W shed, h'lt
all wre srd. Ir tbe servants'
1-iuse V. Tux stlr ft that frv
m to tM worth cf furrUure, vfrs
r.Mrc.1. which Included Piano. The
only thing saved was some porch
furniture :d one berTitsd srt a
feather ".e.1.
In summing un his loss this morn
ing Air. Cox said be waa hit Terr
hard. On the big house, which wss
completely furnished, he only
The Fire Demon visits ns when
least expected. Ho may visit yea
any minute. If yon are not prepared
with Insurahce, or have an Insuffi
cient amount phone me immediately.
We will aerve yoa promptly and CI
elentlr. Ceo. A Adams. Phones S3
and 631. " ' '
ttSQ DT f
OTEldk,
ill
Stumping Country CeMldeecJ Inco
patlble With Dignity i
Office, x
London says there waa no change
on the Somme front last night.
. Tbe Germans are claiming auc-
...... aaalnat fha TtllaalanS In the
. ft r T1.-HI , a flftnuiT..ir.nr. mn " i ...a wu.ui.vw w w . -
' r....tl.l.n antnrlna Rtarawloorma ! . 4V. '.mn.. Dn.lilant Wllann
mi .1.1 . ina rnllnrlnra on Lie-( 1 l iuw
i.-nu-nt Taxea and Cancellatlona." "north of Caput Berlin also claims m. m,Ve pubHc nli nmuU y,.
. - . . .1,. Dnaaian atlarki are weaa
.kiia a W. Tabor, also or me oe-
partment will deliver an address on
"Tax Collectora Monthly Ileportn and
Annual 8cttIemenU."
R. D. 8lmonton la acting preaident
of the association and will preside
at the meeting. The program Includes
several featurca of entertainment lor
the visitors.
PRAYER MEETING.
The regular weekly prayer meeting
of the First Presbyterian church will
ho held tonight 1-et ua have a large
attendance. C H. STOREY.
Pastor
WILL TRY THE DEUT-
-conferees, which would be the first
disclosure of what has taken place.
SUB STUNT
if
Reports from London That Two Other
German Suba Will Soon Leave
For the United States.
' laindon. Aug. 16.-To new Cer
mnn eubmarlnea or targe else will
soon leave for the United States, ac
cording to Hague dispatches.
J. C. WEIjCIi. I I "
STEFDl
1
1
REMAIN 111 ill
Will 8pend Perhaps the Remainder
of the Seaaon Exploring Newly
Diacovered Land,
Waahlnaton. Aug. 16. Afts cew
k.j ference Tneftdar btwi rnzzx
$1,500 Insurance., and on the contents ! wltaoB 4 v09 01 " E;
there was no Insurance at aH. Hei0"0 cwnP1- committee. Vanes
ralued the house at from $5,000 to McCormlck, chairman of the NatlocJ
$6,000. and the contenta at about committee announced that the are
3,noo. j dent would make no epeaunc wmr.
The fire department made a rery " probably would accept invittuozs
qnlck r-sponse. but were unable to 'P different puces.
save the house, owing to two rea- HcConnicE expiamea u gr--sons;
first, because the entire bund.,nU decision by saytnf Mr. ITn
Ing was enveloped In flames when considered a stumping tow lnec:;
they arrived, and. aecond. on account " ot oK!e
of the low water pressure. preaident
' Last week congress to aal callers at
a ll" irii' tj iroiwrrii uv ua iivsiiq , .
and the Sam Lores prorrtr. at the.tba White Honse gained the dtoUuc;
rear, was mimed: a1o the ontboni.es : impression that Mr. Wilson wocJ
at the latter place were badlr d.m- make a trip to the Padflc coaat Ca
lared. There were two or tree bolM.far the presidents only speaamg
hurned In the wwf of the Free Ban- gagementa are HodgenvUle. Ky, tc
' . . a . . . Sa A V. aa.. aV
tlst church, which Is located In the lh. " t uuia, oepu , p-
ssme block. , ably will speag neiore a euurs,i
T. L. PttT. who. kith his wife, had meeting at Atlantic my oepu o,
Somtthing unusually nice for a tmall town store. We are prepared to show, a class of
F.URNITURE never before shown jn Bryan. .Our store has very recently been fitted with
a number of large DUST-PROOF show roams In which we have displayed some of the
hand.ome.t period styles of bed room suits made by Grand Rapids Best Furniture Fac
tories. Pay the store a visit, see what we have to show you, visit our Music Depart
ment and be entertained with some of EDISON'S choicest selections, played on the
great Edison Diamond Disc Phonograph.
Hd Fa
In Boston October 11
ANOTHER NEW CITIZEN.
Mr. J. I Humphreys of Dallas ar-
rooms In the building, was nn'te serl-.
onsly burned on the arm and about
tbe fare. Only three weeks ato Mr.
land nrn, rrni ,mih-it-i inn iviiiim.--.-
ibt Anociaira i-rr. - .....
Knme. AUak.. Au. 16.-SIX mem- l nnMsono.a ermns ny no
, .i.. x-.iui.i . cir.n.nn ir. end had moved Into tne ox resi-
ueri ui uio , ,u.j-.u... o...-.
tic Expedition who arrived here yes-,- - ""- - " " " . ... tw, wwk and wUI
. -I.. ..m u KiAfnn.mn would ro-iwre few at their new location, he did rwed m tne city "i w i
tnnlay. said Mr. Stefansson would ro- um. a ri-'xen of Pryaa. He will
main In mo Arctic to continue mo, ,. tfca iw,i tnraantatWe of the M.
work of exploring the newly disco,"-- rotten out of the house hU , wife U Je nt Xl .
ered land, and probably would not lM m bout W , i,
return to civilization the coming .e.-.money In a dresser drawer he t - ' J. Bryan d
tnmea ana sianwa oui wm, m- -
drawer, but when he opened a hall that at first he did not Intend brina
door with the belongings, the flame. Ing his family here for some time bet
..,v Mm tn tt.. fare and he wss now ns mougui no wou.
forced to drop them and flee for his .come at once.
.mu m nn i h-i- - - - ' ' -a.iaiai.i. . .
son.
SLIGHT
DECREASE
fl I E
PIDEMIG
.
jiju--ruiAj'ij'ii'i'r
With Cooler Weather Prevailing It Is
Hoped by Authorities Thst Dis
ease Can ba Checked.
(By Aoctatd Tress.)
Now York. Aug. 16.-There waa
one hundred and thirteen new cases
and thirty-four deatha reported this
morning In the Infantile paralysis ep
idemic here. The authorltlea are ofi
the opinion that the cooler weather j
IS thO cause Ol ino Sllgni nwrra,M?
In the fatalities and are very hope
ful that with continued cool weather
the disease can soon be checked.
WE DOW! WAHT YOUR BAIIK ACCOK i
But We Do Want Yea Attestica !
We want to remind you that we sell every
thing for the home. .We would like to show
you our stock of Furniture and Convince
you that HERE is the logical point at which
to make your purchases.
W. T. JAr.lEG, FurnKuro
Lm
