rm
IWE&
VOL XX NO. 130.
HAltHK, VERMONT, WKDXKSDAV. A I -T( JUST 10, 1010.
lMUCK, OXE CENT.
THE BARME DAILY
1
DRAW NEARER
TO TRIESTE
Italians Capture Trenches
Along Slopes of Monte
Tecinka
ON NORTHERN EDGE
OF CARSO PLATEAU
Also Win Success East of
Goritzia Where Trenches
Were Taken
Home. Aug. Id. Further advance by
the Italians in their campaign against
the Austrian east and southeast of Gor
itxia has been announced by the war de
partment. The Austrian trenches along
the slonea of Monte Pecinka on the
northern edge of the Carao plateau and
fast of Goritzia have been taken.
rated, and Aug. 12. General lirussilolTs
forces raptured more than a.Vt,(aK) men,
the war office announce.
The Russian have captureil aeriea of
height In the west of orokhta ami
Ardremcv in the Carpathian. In the
Vorkhta and Palatyn, regions the Au
triana are retiring.
KING f.KORGE SPENDS
WEEK WITH TROOPS
RUSSIANS CAPTURE
GATEWAY TO HUNGARY
Jablonitxa Seized and Along with It 1500
Prisoners, According to Official
Statement Issued in
Pet rep-ad.
PetrogTad, via London, Aug. '.The
Russian have captured Jablonitza',' one
of the most Important gateways through
the Carpathian to the Hungarian plain,
and have taken nearly 1500 additional
prisoner, according to an official state
ment issued by the war office last night.
The text of the statement follows:
"Our troops continue the crossing of
the Zlota Li pa under enemy lire which at
many points hampers the construction of
bridges. Heavy artillery and machine
gun lire is being directed against our
works. In this sector we captured sev
en officers, 413 men and three machine
guns.
"In thp Cnrnntliian woods at the south
of the Pruth the enemy under pressure battery of British
evacuated Jablonitza which we occupied. ! screaming answers
At Precautionary Measurei Hia Visit
Wat Kept a Secret and the Mon
arch Went About-Almost
Unrecognized.
With the Untish army In France, via
London, Aug. Ifl. King George has been
at the front for a week. He left yester
day for Ktiglaud and hia departure was
the Aral information that the majority
of the troop had of hia presence. As a
matter of precaution the visit was kept
secret and there was no display or
big reviews as on the occasion of his
visit last fall.
The king simply went about seeing
all sections of the army at work ami
the fields it had won. the flutter of a
bit of hunting bearing the royal coat of
arms as a motor car sped along the road
in clouds of dust and motor truck driv
ers and passing battalions started and
looked around exclaiming, "the king."
The Price of Wales was with the king
nil the time. The monarch was dressed
in khaki with the crossed batons of a
field marshal on his shoulders and the
prince wore the uniform of a lieutenant
in the grenadier guards.
At one point on the line the king met
(ien. Sir Henry Rawlinson, commander
of the fourth army which delivered the
main attack, and Major-funeral Con-
greve, whose corps stormed .Montauoan
and Mametz. Alighting from his auto
mobile near Fricourt the king went into
the first line of trenches from which the
British made their charge. "Now I will
breast the parapet as my men did," he
said, mounting it. He walked across the
old No Man's Land and saw the effects
of the British shell fire on the mass of
fortification and trenches which the
British had wrested from the Germans.
Standing on the edge of a big shell
crater the king looked with a 'sailor's
telescope he was carrying across the
foreground of desolation toward Poriere.
the Bazentine, Longueval and Delville
wood. He watched the curls of black
smoke which signified that the German
guns were busy, while nearby him a
guns was sending
WILSON HALTS
HIS EFFORTS
In Order to Give Brother
hood Leaders Chance to
Report Progress
8-HOUR-IUY TRIAL
FOR SIX MONTHS
the Proposition Which Is
Now Under Consideration
South of this point we reoccupied Vorm
khta and Ardpeliuf on the Pruth, taking
32 officers and 1,006 men prisoners. Our
offensive continues."
London, Aug. 16. The news that the
Russians have captured Pablonitza,
which opens a way for a march from
Galicia to the plains of Hungary, was
received here with a great deal of sat
isfaction. This is the first news of an
advance by the Russian southern army
since the conquest of the Austrian crown
land of Bukowina was completed.
Further to the north the Russians are
continuing their driving operations
against the Austrians with apparently
uninterrupted success. Their troops are
pouring across the Zlota Lipa at several
points in spite of desperate resistance on
the part of Teutonic forces. Fierce fight
ing is being waged along tne entire line
south of Brodv and General Brusiloff is
apparently making a supreme effort to
cut off the army of General von Both-
mer and force its surrender.
AUSTRIANS GET RAIN
OF ALLIES' BOMBS
Italian Squadron in French Aeroplanes
Dropped Missies on Munitions
Factories Near Trieste.
Rome, Aug. 16. An Italian hydroplane
with French aeroplanes bombarded the
munitions factories at Muggia, near
Trieste, to-day, causing destructive fires.
TO ROB AUSTRIA
TO PAY RUMANIA
Germany Is Said to Have Offered That
in Compensation If Rumania
Remains Neutral.
Bucharest, Aug. 16. The Enoca an
Sounc.es that Germany has offered terri
torial compensation to Rumania at the
expense of Austria in return for Ruma
nian neutrality.
FIERCE CANNONADING'
ON VERDUN FRONT
Paris Reporta That Violent Bombard
ment Rules at Thiaumont and
Fleury, East of the
Meuse.
Paris, Aug. 16. A violent bombard
ment is being carried on on the Verdun
front at Thiaumont and Fleury, east of
the Meuse, says an official report.
HOUSES WRECKED
BY EARTHQUAKE
Three Cities in Italy Were Shaken, Says
Special Despatch Received in Lon
don; and in Two of Them Build
ings Were Thrown Down.
London, Aug. 16. The cities of An
rona, Pesaro. and Rimini in Italy were
ahaken by an earthquake, says a special
despatch. At Tesaro and Rimini boues
k e wrecked.
You seem to have missed that," he
said to General Rawlinson, indicating a
silver of wall still standing in Mametz.
"But there is nothing that is not down
in La Boissel as you will see. Your Ma
jesty," said General Rawlinson. "We
improve as we advance."
A dramatic moment occurred as the
king was walking across a field swept
by a British charge. He came to a
grave at the bottom of a shell crater
with a cross bearing the inscription:
"Unknown British soldier." Both the
king and the Prince of Wales halted
and saluted the cross.
In common with all visitors the king
took away some souvenirs in the shape
of empty shell cases and bits of German
equipment. as he was leaving the field
the soldiers of the reserve, the trans
port men, gunners on relief and others
in the neighborhood followed him until
there was a large crowd around the
party before they entered their automo
bile. Somebody called for three cheers
for the king which were given with a
will.
Sir Douglas Haig, as the king's host,
told him what was worth seeing during
his visit and then the king laid out hia
own program each day. ,This led him to
have a look at a town which had been
shelled recently by guns of big calibre.
He and the prince went about leisurely
examining the enormous craters in the
square and the ruins of the old town
halL
When the king visited the men of the
Scottish division, which had seen such
desperate fighting at Delville or "Devils
wood the survivors of the bouth Atrl-
cans gave him the Zulu war cry. He
managed to see something of all kinds
of the soldiers fighting under the Brit
ish flag, from the Scotch, English and j
Irish, to the troops from overseas. A
machine company of the Lancashires in
rest quarters on a French farm was
most surprised of all by his visit. Lead
ing the way he walked into a barn with
its crooked beams and plaster walls and
litter of straw on which the men were
lying after their turn on the firing line.
The most amazed of the company was
one soldier with a healthy snore who
was the last of those asleep to awaken.
Blinking and rubbing his eyes he looked
up to see the face of the king. At first
he refused to believe that some trick was
not being played on him, then convinced,
he scrambled to his feet while the king
broke out laughing.
Washington. D. C. Aug. 16. President
Wilson decided to-day to postpone fur
ther conferences with the representatives
of the railroads and their employes in
the threatened railroad strike until to
morrow when he will receive a general
committee of flon workmen in the White
House. In the meantime the committee
of the managers hero and the general
committee of the employes will meet to
discuss tentative plans now before them.
The tentative proposal for trying out
the eight-hour day for six months was
among the suggestions under considera
tion. For the time-being the situation
is deadlocked. Administration officials
hoped that the groundwork had beeu
established for future negotiations, which
might avert a strike.
The plans on which the president is
working is to put into effect an eight
hour day and have the federal commis
sion investigate the collateral issues anil
make recommenations. The halt in the
negotiations has been caused primarily
by the fact that the brotherhood lead
ers, who have been meeting with the
president, must refer all important ques
tions back to the general committee.
SPECIAL SESSION RUMOR
SETS DATE AS AUG. a.
It ia rumored alut Montpelier
that a M-tial session of the Ver
mont legislature will be called
very noon, and the rumor has it
that the date of the convening ia
to he Thursday, Aug. 24. As yet,
however, there it no confirmation
of the story.
STREET CARS
CRUSH TRUCK
More Than a Score of Peo
pie Were Injured at
Providence
GREAT NAVAL PLANS
RE ACCEPTED HALF 0f VICTIMS
ARE IN HOSPITALS
Congress Virtually Completed the Na
tional Defense Program When the
House Voted 1183 to 31 in
Favor of the Bill.
Washington, D. C. Aug. 16. Congress
virtually completed the national defense
program last night by finally approving
the great increases in naval construction
and personnel written into the naval bill
and urgently supported ny tne annum
t rat ion.
The House accepted the building pro
gram to which its conferees on the nica.
tire had refused to agree by a vote of 2S3
to fil, with 7 of the members present not
voting. The personnel increases on which
there also was a disagrement in confer
iriee were approved without a record
vote
The personnel and construction sec.
tions which already have the approval of
the Senate authorize an increase in en
listed men to 74.7ft and the building of
1.17 war vessels within the next three
years, with four battle cruisers and four
battleships included among the ships for
1017. Previously the House had refused
Cars, Going in Opposite Di
rections, Caught Truck
Between Them
Providence, Aug. 16. More than
score of persons were injured wheu two
electric cars traveling in opposite uirec'
tiona crashed into a coal truck that was
attempt ing to crus Broad street. Ten
of the injured were removed to hospitals
though it was stated by the physicians
that all of them would probably recov
er. Hie truck was caught between the
cars and demolished.
BLEW OFF TOP OF HEAD
Andrew M. Hayward of Amherst, N. H
a Suicide.
ENGINEERS' AGENT
MAKES REPORT
W. S. Carter Arrived in New York from
Washington and Will Return to the
. Capital To-night with the Gen
eral Committee.
New Y'ork, Aug. 16. W. S. Carter,
president of the brotherhood of engineers,
arrived from Washington to-day and
was in conference w ith 600 general chair
men of railroad brotherhoods, tarter
said he expected to return to Washington
late to-day with the entire general com
mittee traveling on two special trains.
ULTIMATUM SENT
TO SHONTS BY UNION
Threatening to Tie Up Surface Lines,
Elevated and Subway in Greater
New YorkAccuses Him of
Discharging Strikers Who
Resumed Work.
New Y'ork, Aug. 16. A tie-up of not
only the surface lines in greater New
York but of the eleyated and subway
lines as well was threatened to-day by
William Fitzgerald, organizer of the Gen
eral Union of Railway Men, who with
other union leaders charged Theodore
Shonbs, president of the New Y'ork Rail
ways Co.r with discharging strikers who
had returned to work. An ultimatum
was sent to Shonts,
Milford. N. H., Aug. 16. Andrew Mur-
rv lttivward. a nroxnerou ami resneeted
to adopt a continuing building program, firmer who lived in the Rahooaic district
bad authorized capital ships, ail of them nf Amherst, committed suicide yesterday
name cruisers, sun nan pronueu ior a bv 10ot i, inse f with a shot mm
personnel of only fU.ooo. Ffr 30 vears Mr Havward has made
On several less important sections, In- ( home in Amherst, coming here from
cinaing appropriation ior improvement m,,,, at,ve town of North Reading, Mass
of navy yards, the House insisted on its For a number of vears he lived in Aver,
disagreement to Senate increases and mhs(1- je waH the son of Andrew and
voted to send the bill back to conference Salome Havward and was bom in North
for settlement of these points. An early Reading. Dec. 2. 1R44. In Amherst, he
settlement is evpected, however, and the has carried on his farm and managed a
measure may be sent to the president for considerable dairy business, on which he
his signature within a week. worked up to yesterday morning. In re
Secretary Daniels issued a statement cent vears ho has often carried the mails
last night, pointing out that the build- on the rural route, of which his son is
ing authorization in the lull were the fj,e official carrier
greatest ever passed in any country and Immediately after breakfast yester
w ould give t he T'nited State, in the opin- day morning Mr. Hayward went to the
ion of naval authorities, the second larg- barn, as was his usual custom. A minute
est navy in the world. He declares the later the family heard the report of
measure "so complete and nearly perfect gun. They found that he had placed the
that it will stand as a model tor ail muzzle of the weapon under his chin and
navy bills for future legislators. discharged it, probably with his foot.
J he vote by w hich the House accepted Dr. Oscar Burns of Amherst was sum
the Senate increase in the building pro- moned, but death was instantaneous.
gram was non-partisan, the majority of The whole front of the aged man's head
lxth Democrat and Republican voting was blown off. Coroner C. E. Congdon
in the affirmative. Of the 51 members wag called from Nashua, and after he
who voted in the negative, there were had viewed the body it was turned over
35 Democrats, 1j Republicans and I So- to the undertakers. No good explana
cialist. Ition w offered for the suicide
During debate rn the building program.! Mr. Hayward leaves a widow, who was
the Republicans insisted that they had Miss Helen F. Nichols of Merrimack; a
led the way toward increases and that son, Henry Hayward, and two grand
the administration was not entitled to all children. Funeral services will be held
of the credit. at the house Thursday at 1:30 p. m.,
The time allotted opponents of the big laud burial will be in Meadowview ceme-
program was controlled bv Democratic tery
Leader Kitchin, who charged the Demo
crats with a sharp chance of front.
"Two months ago the Democrats, urged
bv the administration, were asked to vote
against the wild, reckless, extravagant
appropriations proposed bv the Republi
cans," said Mr. Kitchin. "I denounced
the Republican program as reckless crim
inality, let now the chairman of the
committee, the secretary of the navy
51,200 OFFERED FOR
OPERA HOUSE LEASE
It Was Made by John T. Callaghan and
Aldermen Authorised a Contract If
Bond Is Furnished to That Amount
Many Routine Matters Be
fore the Board.
FIRE AT ST. JOHNSBURY.
THINK OFFENSIVE NEAR END.
Germans Do Not Believe Anglo-French
Armies Can Go Much Further.
A RUSSIAN REPULSE.
Germans Captured a Height in Carpathi
an Region, Says Berlin.
Berlin, Aug. 16. German troops have
won a success in the Carpathian region,
according to the war office announcement
to-day, capturing Etarawipcryna height,
north of Capul. To the north of the
Dniester in Galicia, says tha statement.
the Russians attacked only weakly and
were repulsed.
350,000 MEN TAKEN
BY BRUSSILOFF
Susaiaa General Haa Met with Tremen
dous Success Sine Inauguration of
Ofenrire On June 4 Other
Sections Captured.
f'ttrograd. Aug. Id. Between June 4,
yltn lie Kar.aa oJeu' was isang-a-
J TO SAVE TRIESTE.
Germany ia Said to Have Taken Over
City'a Defense.
Faris, Aug. 16. It is reported that
Germany ia taking over the defense of
Trieste, sending troops especially organ
ized for the purpose, says a Temps dispatch.
LETIMBRO PASSENGERS TAKEN
Musing Boat Goea Ashore and Occupants
Were Seised by Arabs.
Roma. Aug. 16. A missing boat from
the Italian paengrr atearoship Letim
hro, sunk by a submarine, was driven
ashore to-day near Misurata. It eigM
passvegers were made prisoners fcv the
Arab.
Berlin, Aug. 13., via London, Auir. 16.
The worst of the Anglo-French offensive
on the Sonime is over, in the opinion of
German officers, although it is conceded
that the efforts of the allied troops to
pierce the Irerman lineg have probably
not ended. This belief was confidently
expressed literally dozens of times to an
Associated l'ress correspondent during
a four-day trip along the front from a
point not far southeast of Peronne. All
agreed that any appreciable future ad
vance by the allies was out of the ques
tion.
An interesting feature of nearly ev
ery conversation with the German offl-1
cers, who ranged from Subalterns on the
actual front to generals slightly in the
rear, was the universal mention of the
huge amounts of gas and incendiary
which had been used and the difficulty
of combatting this fightings
The correspondents trip was so planned
that it was possible to see an infinite
variety of the defensive methods em
ployed, from huge mortars that, seemed
to shoot unceasingly, gas masks which
must be available instantly everywhere.
observation points constructed at van
tage points, captive balloons, aeroplane
and even carrier pigeons kept in the
front trenches against the possibility of
destruction of other means of communi
cation. A dramatic climax to the trip was a
night battle, viewed from the so-called
fighting station commanded by the cap
tain who acted as guide. It was nearly
midnight when the captain led the way
past a shell-riddled field to an observa
tion point in the top of an apple tree.
The whole front was visible for 12 or 14
miles. The heavily clouded sky was il
luminated as by lightning by tne burst
injr shells from the French guns a few
miles away and the answering fire of
May Have Been Started by Boys Playing
with Burning Cat-Tails.
St. Johnsbtiry, Aug. 16. The residence
of Arthur Meruit at 4d Concord avenue
was damaged bv fire early this morning
when flames bnke out in the buildings
in thct rnur nf t Vi A ctrtirtfirjs XVto liiKS is
the president and fellow Democrats ask Ctimgtd at 500
me to get up here and eat my words. ' T, .V . ' dis.OV(,re(1 bv
"Vihen this program passes the Con- Hrf nrr:U ,artH in h wn,isl1B,l
gress and is signed by the president, this , d t t) u k of th hniUin
nation will be the greatest military mi- ,,,. t,10 rnnf timhnr- .
tion the world has ever seen And yet back of the fc where thc flam
they say we are sane and patriotic. !. i,..i,,i
Republican Leader Mann, advocating .i j;vr.t w
the increase, declared it was ordinary considerllbIe, headway and the buildings
wisdom to prepare for what we hope I ablaj,fi before th dppartm.nt ,r.
will never come.
"I want to keep out of war," he said
"but we should be prepared to protect
our rights at home and abroad. The
credit will belone to the Republican side
for the votes that will pass this larger
program
Senate amendments to which the House
disagreed and which will be referred
again to conference included these appro
ipriations: $6.000,oOO for equipment of
the Puget sound, Philadelphia, Norfolk
Hoston, Portsmouth, Charleston and New
Orleans navy yards for construction of
warship, with immediate equipment of
thc Puget sound, Philadelphia, Boston
and Norfolk yards to build capital ships
$1,2.-10.000 additional for improvements at
the Charleston navy yard, including
dry dock to cost $1 .085.000; $300,000 to
enlarge facilities of the Portsmouth navy
yard; $100,000 for a new wharf at the
New Orleans navy yard.; and $.500000
for investigation of submarine and avia
tion bases, and plans for defense of har
bcrs and canals.
A GOAL APIECE
IN SOCCER MATCH
American Team, Playing at Stockholm,
Met with Draw in First Meeting
King Gustave Saw the
Contest.
Stockholm, Aug. 16. The first game
played here by the American soccer team
against Stockholm resulted in a draw.
Kach side scored a goal. King Gustave
saw the contest.
GOT BULLET IN THIGH
Newport Center Youth Injured While
Hunting Squirrels.
St. Johnsburv. Aug. 16. Laverne Mat-
ten of Newport Center, aged 14. wa
I brought to this city luesdsy evening
rived, the members of the family barely
having time partly to clothe themselves
before seeking refuge in thc homes of
neighbors.
The cause of the fire is not certain, but
two small boys who had been to the
pond had brought back some cat-tails
and had been playing with them as
torches in the afternoon. Mr. Menut
thinks it possible that one of these
which had not entirely burned out might
have been lodged around the shed.
FIELD MEETING HELB
Attended at Brattleboro by 2000 People
Inspections Were Made,
Brattleboro, Aug. 16. A field meeting
wag held on the fairgrounds here yes
terday under the joint auspices of the
Vermont state grange and the Windham
County Agricultural association. About
200 persons were present. An automo
bile trip of inspection was made of farms
with purebred cattle and demonstration
plot of alfalfa and soy beans. Ad
dresses were made by State Master W.
N. Cady of Vermont, State Master John
A. McSparrow of Pennsylvania and
Thomas Bradlee, director of the Ver
mont expeirment station.
ULLERY A CANDIDATE.
He Would Like to Be National Bank
Examiner.
Brattleboro, Aug. 16 Jacob G. Ullery,
president of the Vermont Marble com
pany, former editor of the New England
Farmer, and one of the best known Dem
ocrat in v ermont, Is a candidate for
he office of national bank examiner to
fill the vacancy caused by the death of
me If. Nelleher or Montnener. -Mr.
llery has telegraphed every member of
he Democratic state committee and oth
er prominent Democrats, asking for their
upport.
Aldermen in their regular sesion last
evening looked largely to a bundle of
communications for enough buwine to
keep the pot boiling, the mail bag being
untixiiallv prolific of odds and end.. Per
hap the most important piece of knit
ting work uncovered was a letter from
John T. Cullaglian, in which he offered
$1,200 for the lease of the Barre opera
house, beginning Sept. I. Mr. Calla
ghan's tender ' is not particularly auri
ferous when compared with some of the
prices that have been paid for the lease.
but the 31,200 is just the sort of metal
that the aldermen have been looking for
sver since a budcet of bills rancing from
$.100 to $MI began to dribble in. Indeed,
the hoard decided not to look at any ten
ders under $l.2'0 and it was so stated in
the most recent call for bids.
And so the ojwra house is Mr. Calla-
ghan's, if he will but furnish a bond for
$1,200 before next Monday evening, the
property committee having been tuthor-
zed to sign a contract with him if all
the specifications are met satisfactorily.
In his communication, Mr. (allnghan re
ferred to his career as a theatrfcal man
ager in the davs when liarre s opera
house was not the ample auditorium
hat it is at present. The prospective
essee, while intimating that he ia in no
sense a showman of the calibre of Shu
bert or Hammerstein, expressed his con-
iction that he could give the citv and
he show folks a perfectly good run for
their money. The motion to sign up,
providing a bond is furnished, was made
y Alderman Bruce and seconded by Al-
erman Kosm.
Twentv-one births were registered in
ulv as against nine deaths, according to
the report of Dr. J. W. Stewart, which
as accepted. Twelve of the new P.nrre
te are females. Four cases of contag
ions disease were identified as whoopin
cough and the necrology roll was divided
among the following causes: Suicide 1
consumption 4. disease of the heart 1
disease of the kidney 1, old age 1, pre
mature birth 1.
In the police department in May, read
ing from the chief's report, there were
67 arrests. 61 for intoxication, 3 for
breach of the peace, 2 for violation of
the city ordinances and one for non-sup
port.
Overseer W. J. Clapp of the poor de
partment reported a charity appropria
tion of ?ii0 from the city council in
June. The sum of $7.")S.0S was disbursed
and there was a balance of $31.01 on
hand when the month began. The sum
of $65.19 was received, making the net
expense to the city $692.89. Both re
ports were accepted.
A letter from John . Gordon took
exception to a charge of $59.13 levied
against him for digging up the pavement
in front of his block on North Main
street. Mr. Gordon stated that he had
agreed with the street department to
pay the bill for digging if digging should
disclose a defection in his own pipes
He had understood that the city pipe
was at fault and hence the exception
The matter wa-s referred to the street
committee.
Maple avenue people petitioned for a
street light between the corner and the
Hope cemetery entrance and a hydrant
in the same locality, the petitions being
referred to the lighting and fire commit
tees. Mrs. I. Broggini asked that Sixth
street be worked in order to permit au
tos and teams to reach the eastern ex
tremity and also requested that sewer
obstructions be removed. The street
committee will look into her requests.
Likewise into a notice from B. Mariotti
that he is about to use a section of Pike
street, owned by him, for private pur
poses. Joseph Movalli was given per
mission to transfer to his name the pool
room license granted Levi Bianehi some
time since. G. Tomasi's request to use a
portion of the sidewalk on CVittage street
while making alterations to his building
was referred to the street committee.
D. Ossola asked permission to operate a
gasoline engine in his spaghetti factory
on North Main street and the fire com
mittee will investigate. A request for
special policing during the agricultural
picnic at Avers street Saturday was left
with the police committee to act.
An invitation to have the city repre
sented at the international firemen's con
vention in Providence, R. I., Aug. 29
Sept. 1 was received and discussed at
length. Some were for having the city
delegate someone to attend, as it is pos- j
sible that new apparatus may be added
to the municipal equipment next year
Alderman Shurtlcff thought the fire chief
would be unable to attend on account of
disabilities. Opinions differed here and
the fire committee was told to use its
own discretion in acknowledging the in
vitation.
Building permits were granted as fol
low: Arthur Averill. to erect a dwelling-
house on Tremont street; D. M. Miles
Coal Co.. to erect a coal shed addition
on Smith street; C. L. Currier, to erect a
two-tenement house on Sheridan street;
G. Aja. to build a piazza on Berlin
street; N. M. Nelson, to erect a garage)
on Summer street.
WERE FORCED
TO MAKE GOOD
After Selling Vermont Farm
Not Up to Reprr , -tations
NEW YORK ,N FINED
INBENN.V .TON COURT
State Commissioner of Agri
culture Helped to
Push Case
Manchester, Aug. 16. A criminal ac
tion brought some time ago for the state
of Vermont against M. Sunkind and Otto
Trieb of New York City has been settled
in Bennington county court, Judge F. L.
r isii presiding, with the men oleadinsr
nolo contendere and paring $200 line
each, together with a sum of money to
Paul Goebel, who, because of alleged
misrepresentation, came out second best
n a real estate deal. The ca.se has been
followed to its successful conclusion by
State Commissioner of Agriculture E. S.
ungham of St. Albans since it was first
reported to him by the late Bishop W. F.
Weeks in the spring of 1913.
An indictment was brought against
the men in Bennington county court in
June. 1914, and settlement has been pre
vented up to this time on account of the
law's delay. The state expected to
prove that Goebel was induced through
misrepresentation by N. Suskind 4 Co.,
real estate dealers of New York, to bur
the Clnrk Hamilton farm in Sandgate
for $2,700. Among other inducements it
is alleged Goebel was told there was A
slate mine on the farm, whereas there is
none. Later Goebel could not inept the
payments and his livestock and tool
were foreclosed. Being thus deprived,
Goebel had to abandon the farm.
It is said that the farm contained a
small acreage of tillable land, not more
than 20 acres; that it was stony and
difficult to farm; and that competent
judges of farms in that vicinity had
placed the farm as worth not more than
$1,200. Commissioner Brigham followed
the progress of the case closely because
his department has been interested in
bringing people to Vermont to take up
fann lands and he wants to have a fair
deal.
GRAND LARCENY CHARGE
Made Against River Street Woman on
Man's Complaint.
Iona Bennett, wife of Joseph Bennett
of River street, was arraigned before
Acting Magistrate A. A. Sargent in citv
court last evening on a grand larceny
charge, to which she entered a plea of
not guilty. Failing to secure suretv of
$500, the woman was remanded to the
county jail until Friday morninc at 9
o'clock, when a hearing is to be held in
city court. Her arrest was made on a
complaint brought to Grand Juror Wil-
lam lshart and the police allege that
she was implicated, with another woman.
n the theft of a roll of bills from a call
er on River street one night last week.
The complainant lives in Montpelier and
he moving tale of misfortune which he
old the police led to an investigation.
Charles Childs of Montnelier pleaded
not guilty to a charge of furnishing liq
uor illegally when arraigned before the
magistrate this morning. Being unable
o furnish bail.of $500, he went to the
county jail to remiin until a hearing is
eld Thursday afternoon. Childs was
rrested on a complaint made to the
grand juror. It is alleged that he fur
nished a minor with intoxicating liquor.
THE SOUTH R0YALTON TOUR.
Wiring permits: Montpelier A Barre i
Lighting A Power Co., to intall eight
meters; Iowell McLeod. to install mo
tor; Charlie Wong, for laundry lights:
E. A. Young. Arioli & Dente. Mr. For
sythe, H. C. Patterson. Mr. M. Cook and
Montpelier seminary (L. H. Hooker es
tate!, to wire for interior lights; Hovt
Milne, to change motors; Gerrard-Bar-clav
Co.. to change stonehed motor; J.
B. Sanguinetti, to install stoneshed mo
tors.
Large Crowd of Barre People Expected
to Participate To-morrow. .
The members of the Barre Board of
Trade are buying tickets eagerly for
the fourth better acquaintance tour, this
time to South Rovalton to-morrow
(Thursday) evening, and the prospects
are that a large crowd will attend. The
supper tickets are 50 cents each, and
automobile transportation to and from
I South Rovalton is furnished free to any
! members and their ladies who make the
request. The auto will start from the
city square at 5:15 o'clock.
On arrival in South Rovalton a supper
will be served by South Rovalton people.
Carroll's orchestra of liarre and the
Barre band will accompany the party,
and the former will play during the sup
per and the latter after the supper. Ster
eoptieon slides of Barre and of the Barre
granite industry will be shown and there
will be also an opportunity for dancing
in the open air.
This will be a splendid opportunity for
the people of Barre and South Rovalton
and the surrounding towns to get to-
igether for a pleasant evening; and, in
addition, the Barre people will have the
pleasure of a ride over a first-class road
in the cool of the evening.
FOUR BUILDINGS BURNED
the German batteries. I he earth fairly siifTennir from a 12 calibre hnll. t m,.n,t
shook and speech was difficult. The cap.
tain laughingly declared that he enjoyed
life in the open far better than his ex
istence in Berlin.
The spirit of the men do not seem de
pressed and the officers say tiie soldiers
are hard to hold in hand after a long
artillery bombardment, and out of relief
at it ration, unnecessarily expose
themselve in infantry action which
The dispatch ends abruptly at this
point, apparently having teen cut short
fcr the caor.
in his thigh, received while hunting
squirrels near his home earlier in the
day.
Ih R. V. Adams, who wa called
THIRD MAN DECLINES.
Will Not Serve as Mediator in Mexican
Trouble.
Washington, D. C. Aug. 16. The third
man originally selected by President Wil
When Fire Caught in Postoffice at War
ren, N. H. Loss $10,000.
Warren. N. H., Aug. 16. Fire starting
from a stove in the poi-toffice destroyed
that structure and three other business
buildings last night, causing a loss esti-
Keporting on .M. vwas request : mat ,t $io.tssl. Two tamilie. wh.
permission
to build a barn on f.ramte
street. tJie tire committee recommence!
that the permit lie granted with the res
ervation that the structure be located five
feet from the building line, or in the
event that the structure be located only
three feet from the line, that a solid
hrifk wall 1 u-ed. The report wa ac
cepted. Warrants were approved for payment
in the following order: Street depart
ment payroll. $510,045, resurfacing,
sprinkling, surface sewer. swer. side
walk and health accounts; water de
partment payroll. 2. (. ; file department
t '
occupied tenements in the upper storie
of the buildings, lost practically all their
Iwloriging.
Several other dwelling were saved
with the ssit.m-e of Plymouth firemen,
who sent a motor fire truck here in an
swer to a summon for help. ' The elec
tric light and telephone service in the
north end of the town was disabled.
TO BOLSTER EXCHANGE.
probed for the bullet but was unable to son to serve on the commission to com-
. . . . ; 1 11. i
extract it. He brought the hoy by auto ; po -Mexican ooTaT imuoies rs de-1 sprinkling. uriace sewer. wer. '' ; Forthcoming Loan to Be Issued in United
lo me tirigilliooa nnpimi. m nere .t-llvj' """" " -T &ii"wn viik ami n-,-ium; mrr fir- i Ctt 4 r F 1 A
!,! .r. Kv TVr lit., nifht- The president is undrtnw4 to I n.rtmont navroll. fH2.7S: fi .lrvjrtmcnt I State for tngiand.
the bull. t. After "several !inii-crs'ii! , 1 considering a long list of available I payroll. $T7Jfi; polir department pay- I-ndon. Aug. I. The forthcoming
attempt were made tn extract the piere : men for appointment in the two place. roll. f'W1; G. A. Bemi. 14. nervier j to I issue, in the I mtrd State
of lead the doctor were obliged to give;The name f the third man among the j as janitor; treasurer, ?M.VI..Vi. lflfi'for KrgUnd is rsrd-.i a a preliminary
ui the tak until tn-dar. when a further ng'nl eelerlion uever has born t!i-1 -inking fund tax; treasurer. 4.ln?., I move to protect t be exchange w hioh b
tSIort is Uricg male. vu'ged. 1?13 water department aurplu. resou h a ana cf dropping.
