pF T
that yf asf tbee
as IIW"F
_ _ _ _ jwhy AD__
Coat" ae 0n and mve NER
atnumbsd wm yew home ovar uies
the See it i. is meam of the " o
NO. 3623. WEATHME-FAi. WASHINGTON. D. C., MONDAY. SEPREMBER 18. 1916. ONE CENT.
WOMAN AND BABY
FOUND IN WOODS
Messenger Boy Leads Detec
tives to Midnight Camp.
A messenger boy. pale with excitement
and almost breathless from running, en
tered police headquarters last night,
found his way to the office of IUeut. Jas.
Hartley and announced:
"There's a lady out in the woods going
to kill her baby if you don't catch her
quick."
Hartly put the boy through a quick
examInation. pressed a couple of electric
buttons and within two minutes had the
police motor car, with Detective Bergts.
Burlingame and Keiley, and the boy.
speeding to the place where he said he
Pad left the woman.
A quick run brought the detectives to
a point where they were forced to aban
don the machine and walk to the spot.
While the detectives were talking the
faint wai4 of a baby was heard. Fol
lowing this sound they found the woman.
She was sitting on the ground, holding
a baby in her arms, with baskets, blan
kets, clothing. dishes and other house
hold articles scattered about her.
Among these articles, the police say
were a bottle of whisky and a bottle that
evidently had contained whisky. Detec
tive Burlingame took the baby, in his.
arms and Kelley aided the woman to
her feet: The messenger gathered up the
baskets and blankets. When the woman
finally realized she was under arrest, she
halted and exclaimed:
"It's a fine state of affairs when a lady
can't take her baby out for a breath of
fresh air without having cops butting in."
"We have ro obiection to giving the
baby fresh air. but how about killing
it ' asked R iurlin am e.
"W 1. that's non, of your business."
the woman replied.
The party reacred noice headquarters
shortly before midnight. A bottle of
nik was procured f- the bab and the
chi!d drank most of it. Ueut. Hartley
~n-l ,tod an investigation.
The nessenzc- said his name is Frank
Ri!-,. that he 1ves at :!(n) R street north
,at ar-i I employed by the Dime Mes
er "vice. In respons" to a call.
an1'TNTXI, .,. PME Two.
LCNOSHOREMEN VOTE
SYMPATHETIC STRIKE
Call in Aid of New York Carmen
Postponed.
(By the lternational News Service.)
New York. Sept. 17 -Votes on the ques
trn of a sympathetic strike to aid the
stre t railway men were taken by six
Inca; unions of the Longshoremenand
Tidewat-r btmroen, of New York today.
AI votel to strike. but set no time.
The pw.- to ati out the :,%0 men
e pha-d in the han-s of T. V. O'Con
f. f ao pr-s oidrnt ,f the Interna
1; 1-,rnohrernens .u''ariation.
1 ar -ents pire-ded the ballot
n he te wisI taken In silence.
Thr ws Ie no strike befor, Thurs
di' sa ti tr 'Connor tonizht. '-May
,e th' re will b'e no0 t all."
Mr. O,'onror menrioned the confer
enie b5ore layor lit-cl tomorrow as
"n re'son for i,,f, rring the expected
symipatht- stri- order. Other labor
lad Z:-t- is a general pur-ose
to !t!A% th'e . !mprathetic strike in sur
r.ort of the :re't railway men until the
dlemonstration oin be made an impos
irg on.
Tn- -one -nce in the mayor's office
w e'd at noon.
FIREMEN MAY HOLD
fiAMES OF THEIR OWN
Success of Police Field Day Acts
as Spur.
Foilowinz the marked success of the
police anes held Saturday. a number
of officials yesterday showed a desire to
promote a similar meet for the fire de
partmert.
"It might be possible." says Commis
sioner Louis Brownlow, "to arrange such
games on a smaller scale, for although
the fire department is not so large as the
police department. the number of entries
could be curtailed without seriously af
fctling the success of the games. The
city was amply protected Saturday.
when about two-sevenths of the police
were enzaged in the meet as the police
records will show, and it might be possi
le to saare enough firmen to make quite
a creditable showing without seriously
affectin; the city's protection."
Chief Wagner. of the fire department,
also believes that something may be done
along these lines in the future. He says
"in the past the firemen have held many
affairs of a social nature and that no
serious effects had resulted. The games
may be staged should enough interest be
shown among the firemen to warrant it."
There are a number of very clever
athletes listed among the Are laddies,
some of whom are the holders of medals
as prizes for participation in various ath
letic events. and should the games be
arranged, they can be depended upon to
make a creditable showing.
The marked ability shown by the police
In the games Saturday will probably lead
toward the formation of a permanent
athletic assocIation in the department.
with the erection of a police gymnasium
in some central location.
Should such an organization take place.
it 'will probably start from the office of
the chief of police, Maj. Pullman. who
was very much pleased by lbs showing
made by his men Saturday, and the vai'
ous comments that have been made since
by the New York Olympic champions.
"Pat" McDonald. Egon Ericmon and John
Eller, who participated in the meet,
SIX KILLED AS AUTO
IS STRUCK BY TRAIN
tfBy the laternatleaal News geangee.)
Bethlehem. Pa., Sept. 17-Six persons
were killed this afternoon when a Phil
adelphia and Reading train struck the
automobile in which they were riding
near Quakertown. The dead were all
from Bethlehem.
The party,. riding in William S. UnI
ker'. car, had left Quakertown to return
to Bethlehem.
Tree obscured the railroad, and the
automobile was full upon the tracks
when hit by a special train. All six oc
cqsant et the oag wer killed instantly.
4.s
200 Meicang Peri
(1y Intersiatesma News esyvteS.)
Douglas, Arts.. Sept. 17.-Ner
has just been received here of the
destruction by Are of a steamer
carrying Carransa troops from
Mansmnilo to Guaymas. Two hun
dred lives were lost.
Jose Dieges, brother of Gen. X.
M. Dieges who was on the steam
er, on a special mission from Car
rana to the Sonora oficials,
escaped, swimming ashore nake.,
The fire is believed to have been
of incendiary origin, Legalistas
being suspected.
STRIVE TO HOLD
DOWN MILK PRICE
Producers Seek Cent Rise I
Without Affecting Rate.
Interesting disclosures probably will be
made during the coming week in the In
vestigation of the prices of the two sta
pie articles of food, bread and milk.
A meeting has been called for Tuesday
afternoon, in the office of Judson C. Wel
liver, chairman of the committee repre
senting the Milk Produrers' Associations
of Mary:and and Virginia, In the Mlunsey
Building, to bring the producers and di&
tributers together.
At this meeting plans w411 be threshed
out whereby the producers, who claim
that they are now producing milk at a
loss. may raise the price of their article
I c-nt per quart without affecting the
ultimate market price of the article.
It was the consensus of opinion anong
those who attended the producers' meet
Ing last week that this could possibly be
done by eliminatloi or at least curtail
ing, some of the overhead expense.
A national investlation also is being
condunted by expirts from the Depart
ment of Agriculture and the Department
of Justice, to determine whether the
raising of prices of food articles through
out the country is the result of organiza
tion contrary to the Sherman anti-trust
iaw. or whether it :s the normal result of
the rise in the price of products.
It is announced by the commissioner of
weights and measures in New York that
today will mark the beginning of prose
cutions against those bakers whose loaves
fail short of the weight marked upon'
them. During the past week nearly 0ul
violations of this law were found by the
food inspectors in New York.
A law of this kind does not exist In
Washington. where bakers have openly
used these means to overcome the pro
hibitive prices of materials rather than
raise the adtuaf price of the bread.
President P. T. Moran. of the Chamber
of Commerce, has announced that the
chamber probably will discuss the bread
question it its next meeting, but that no1
iecisive action is expected favoring an
immediate law for the standardization of
bread weight.
SETH LOW, FORMER HEAD
OF NtV YORK ITY, DIES
Civic Leader Succumbs to Complica
tion of Diseases.
(By the Internatieal News Service.)
New York. Sept. 17.-Seth Low, for
mer mayor of New York. and at one
time president of Columbia University,
died today on his model farm at Bed
ford Hills. N. Y.. where in recent years
he had been giving close attention to.
scientific agriculture.
He was 66 years old. His death
Was ascribed to a complication of dis
eases, from which his health had been
failing for many months. A crisisar
rived Saturday night and the attend
ing physisian gave up hope for recov
ery.
Twice mayor of Brooklyn and once
of Greater New York. formerly presi
dent of Columbia University to which
he gave $1.1000.0, and which he di
rected brilliantly through the moss
expansive eleven years of its history.
Mr. Low continued almost to the end
his active interest In public affairs.
As president of the National Civicl
Federation and in his personal capac
ity. he made a reputation as an ar
biter in disputes between labor and
capital. Both sides had confidence In
his openness of judgment, while his
tact and geniality contributed greatly
to his success in adjusting 'obstinate
differences.
One of the last semi-pubilc honors
conferred upon him was the presi
dency of the Chamber of Commerce ofi
the State of New York. to which he
was elected in 1904. His father,. Ab
diel A. Low, had occupied the same
position half a century earlier.
Seth Low had also been a delegate
to the peace conference at The Hague.
SIR RICHARD CRAWFORD
FINDS $20 ON STREET
Sir Richard Crawford, trade adviser of
the British Embassy. made another bid
for fame yesterday. While strolling
along Connecticut avenue he saw on the
ground a crisp yellow note. Stooping, he
rescued it from the dust, and discovered
that it was a perfectly good $20 bill.
Calling the nearest policeman, who hap
pened to be Officer H. R. Carr, of the
Third precinct, he turned the money overI
to the police department, where it
awaits the owner on demand at the Third
precinct station.
[FEESTO! WIFEY QUITS TATKTWG,
Weary Husband Applie. Mystie
Plaint Juice to Her Torngu.,
St oiMo., Sept. 17-John Kearn's
wife Is talking again, The Kearns spent1
Sunday at the Botanical gardens. Al
gardener explained to then tile mysteries
of dumbcane, a plant If touched to the
tongue, renders a person speechless.
Later, when they had moved on. John
said:
"Open your mouth, dear, and close your
eyes. I've something for you."
He had. It wan the dumbcan., and
Mrs. Kearn wasn rushed to the hospital.
where she recovered the urse of her
tenuu aftar sevral= heur.
CATHOLIC URGES
STATEINSURANCE
Unemployment Measures Are
Urged at Charities Meeting.
Social insurance as a means of cor
recting modern economic Inequalities,
voluntary charity as preferable to State
controlled benevolent works, and the or
ganization of Catholic young men's and
young women's associations were among
the subjects discussed yesterday by dale
gates to the National Conference of Cath
olic Charities in McMahon Hall. Catholic
University,
The conference was formally opened at
10 o'clock with solemn high mass in the
Franciscan Monastery, with Right Rev.
Bishop Thomas J. Shahan as celebrant.
Right Rev. Bishop J. Henry Tihen, of
Lincoln. Neb., in his sermon, commended
the purpose of the conference to lesden
materially 'the all too great amount of
economic misery that afflicts humanity.'
Following the celebration of mass, the
conference convened in the monastery at
11:30 o'clock. Bishop Shahan delivered
an address of welcome.
In the afternoon there was a meeting
ot the women's section in McMahon Hall.
which was addressed by Rev. Father Ed
ward Garesche, S. J., of St. Louis. The
first meeting of the conference proper was
held at 8 o'clock last night in McMahon
Hall, where the sessions will continue un
til the close of the convention Wednes
day morning.
There are 500 delegates in attendance.
and it is expected that about 300 more
will he here before tonight. It is uncer
tain whether Cardinal Gibbons will be
(NTINED ).N PAGE NINE.
WOULD HOLD CARRANZA
FOR BORDER TROUBLES
Aimerican Commissioners May Pro
pose Compromise Solution.
fBy the International News Service.)
New London, Conn., Sept. 17.-Lest Gen.
'arranza orders his envoys home because
the Ameriean troops are not withdrawn
!rom Mexico, the American delegates are
considering a compromise plan of solv
ng the border question.
It provides that in case the American
troops are brought back to the United
states Carranza will be held entirely re
,ponsible for the protection of the fron
ier.
It will then become the duyw of the
First Chief to concentrate troops along
the international line, where such ban
fits as Villa have threatened to break
through, and patrol other sectiondg with
rurales organised like the Canaaian
neunted poHce.- -
Another condition that will be imposed
>n Mexico, according to this plan, is
that the United States officials co-oper
tie with the Mexican authorities in carry
ng out Carranza's promised reforms.
The American delegates are convinced
that it is useless to talk about any set
lement of the border questions until the
inderlying evils of Mexican political and
'conomic life are eliminated.
Although Carranza insists that he is
Lble to regenerate Mexico, the Americans
mtertain most serious doubts.
They are unable to understand how he
:an perform this herculean task without
the assistance of this government.
1 S. ENDS PROBE OF
RUSSO-JAP ALLIANCE!
Will Not Act Further Unless Assur
ances Are Contravened.
The United States will demand no fur
ther information from Japan concerning
the Russo-Japanese alliance and Japa
nese operations in Inner Mongolia "un
less Japan commits an act in contraven
tion of the assurances given' this govern
rnent last week."
A State Department authority assert
-d yesterday that it would be most un
usual and even offensive for America tol
assume, by making additional inquiries
after receiving formal assurances, that
the Tokyo government had been dissimu
ating.
The State Department expects addition
al reports from its diplomats and con
sular officers in China on Japanese ac
tivities in China. especially in Manchuria
and Inner Mongolia. The scene of the!
recent difficulty at Chen-Chiatun, Mon
olla, is so distant from these officers
that investigations undertaken by the
United States necessarily would require
sonsiderable time,
Unless the expected reports contain in
formation of specific acts by Japanese
tuthorities in violation of Japan's agree
ment with this country respecting the
ztatus quo in China, the "open door"
polley, and the principle of maintenance
3f China's territorial integrity, the State
Department will take no atcion.
PRINCE ALBERT, HOME
FROM NAVY DUTY, ILL
(By the International News Service.)
London. Sept. 7-Official announcement
was made today that Prince Albert, sec
nd son of King George, has been in
'a lided home because of severe abdomi.
mal trouble.
The prince is doing well at Windsor
lastle, but it will be some tIme before he
will be able to return to duty,
Prince Albert Is a midshipman in the
navy. He has suffered from gastric dis
yrders for some time. Last April he
tad to undergo a course of treatment.
[n August, 1914, he was operated on for
ippendicitis.
HE TAKES AN EASY CUE.
"L" Guard. Iguorat of Streets,
Flada Way to Call Taheea.
New York, Sept, 17-The man who told
his yesterday vowed It was true:
A Sixth avenue L train. southbound,
stopped at Fourteenth street. On the
front platform of a car was a guard,
regularly employed. -On the rear plat
form was a strikebreaker, who did not
sven know the numbers of the cross
streetsl.
urteenth street," mumbled the
"Same at this end," yesd the strls
breke.
Telegraph Tipi
Tolede, Ohio, Sept. 1T.-'rank Rae, of
Ann Arbor, sold a perfectly good touring
car for 80 to pay his fne. Rela had
been arrested for driving the car while
under the influence of liquor and was
fined SIM. He could not pay, and when a
local man ofered him 140 in a joking
way for the car he took it. paid his fine
and left.
Berlin, Sept. 17.-The heademan's axe
was used here today in the execution of
Johanna Ullmann, one of two partici
pants in a shocking murder here last
March.
Poughkeepsie. Sept. 17.-Lucille Tomp
kins won a verdict yesterday of $2.000 in
her $50,000 breach of promise suit against
Edward Yale. A sealed verdict was re
turned last night and opered this morn
ing.
Wheeling. W. Va., Sept. 17.-A fatal
duel was fought in the fountain of the
city hall by two alligators that had made
their home there for seven years. A
14-year-ok alligator was chewed to death.
The alligators were brought here from
Florida seven years ago by W. S. Mc
Elroy, then city treasurer.
Morehead, Ky.. Sept. 17.-Mrs. Eliza
Fyffe, aged 0 years, of Morgan County.
passed through Morehead the other day
on her way to visit relatives at Scioto
ville, Ohio. This was the first time the
aged woman ever saw a train or rode
on one.
Westville, N. J., Sept. 17.-A freight
train hit an automobile here today. kill
ing a man, who has not yet been identi
fied, and causing injuries to Harold
Chayles, of Swedesboro, which may cause
his death.
Chicago. Sept. 17.-A club is the solu
tion of the eugenics problem among the
Zulus of Africa. said J. H. Balmer. for
thirty-two years a resident of that coun
try. before the International Lyceum con
vention here. "When a baby in born to
Zulu parents and it appears to be below
the Zulu standard it -is given a gentle
wallop over the head," he explained.
"After that there is a funeral."
Chicago. Sept. 17.-The Progressive party
In Illinois is not dead. The canvass of
the vote of the State primaries developed
n Moose ticket. No Moose party appear
ed on the ballots, but four men who re
fused to he delivered, wrote out a ticket
headed "Progressive." and wrote in a
full State ticket and part of a Cook
County ticket, and four votes were cast
for it. all in Chicago. The ticket will not
appear on the November ballots.
Clinton. Mass.. Sept. 17.-Marti J.
Kane. former superintendent of streets.
and James R. Connery. former road com
missioner, have been arraigned in the
District Court, each on a charge of brib
ery and the larceny of $375 of town funds.
Kane pleaded not guilty and was held in
$1.600 ball for the October grand jury.
Denver, Colo., Sept. 17.-The claims of
the Rocky Mountain region to one of the
FederaL farm lona, banks to be located at
Denver have been presented to the Fed
eral board at a hearing here. Statistics
presented set forth that the aggregate
valuation of farm crops of the five
States proposed for the Denver district is
$2.000.000.00 annually.
Charleston. W. Va., Sept. 17.-Startling
conditions have been revealed here by
Dr. Morris Mendeloff in the deaths of al
most a whole colony of Russian Poles.
employed in the grinding room of a loc'al
axle factory. The foreigners, who located
here a few years ago, are dying off
monthly of tuberculosis as a result of in
haling emery dust.
Ottawa. Sept 17.-Approximately P,0W
samples of Prussian and Austrian indus
trial products w'ill arrive in Canada next
week and will be placed on exhibition in
Montreal and Toronto. The purpose is to
ascertain whether Canadian manufactur.
era are making or can make articles of
the kinds and at the prices shown, for
foreign and home markets, as part of the
allies' program to take from Prussia and
Austria all the world trade possible and
hold it after the war.
Bar Harbor. Me.. Sept. 17.-Ralph Pul
iitzer, Jr.. whose illness was diagnosed as
Infantile paralysis, is now convalescing
and a full recovery is looked for. He suf
fered a light attack of the disease August
20. but its real character was not fixed
until last week.
New Orleans, La&.. Sept. 17.-Miss Phyl
lis Neilson-Terry and Cecil Frank King
Ogden. her manager, will be married to
morrow morning in the office of the
British consul here. Both are British
subjects and in the British consulate will
be on British soil.
New York, Sept. 17.-The grand jury at
New Brunswick. N. J., discharged Mrs.
George Kish, who has been held in jail
there with her 9-months-old baby since
Tuesday on a charge of murdering Anton
Bucsah. She shot and killed him when
he entered her home in the absence of
her husband and, according to her story,
assaulted her.
San Diego, Cal.. Sept. 17.-The cruiser
San Diego, with Admiral W. B. Caperton
on board, is under orders to leave port
today for the Gulf of Fonseca. Orders for
the Pacific Fleet flagship to proceed to
Nicaraguan waters were received from
the Navy Department. The San Diego
will survey the islands of Sagate Grande
and Mianguero as a site for a proposed
naval base.
New York, Sept. 17.-A mutiny which
amounted to a strike for higher wages.
was reported by officers of the American
tank steamer Gargoyle, which arrived
early yesterday from Alexandria. On
August 14. during the outward voyage.
nine firemen and three coal passers quit
work, one of the firemen attacking the
chief engineer with a shovel.
..-e
San Francisco. Sept. 17.-Louise Davis,
f'ourteen-year-old heiress to a $100,000 es
tate, has gone into hiding to escape a
crowd of would-be suitors who are
anxious to relieve the Juvenile Court of
the problem of appointing a guardian.
With "Manmmy" Adams, her negro nurse.
she left her spartment for a hiding place.
Berlin. via London. Sept. 17.-The em
ploas of all the big German banks held
a special meeting today to discuss the
cost of living. They adopted unanimous
ly a resolution askinig the general direc
torate of the Association of German Bank
Ofilcials to request the directors of all
Berlin banks to grant an appreciable in
crease in salaries.
New York, Sept. 17.-Mrs. lEllen O'Neil,
60 years old. ignited her, clothing while
leaning over the gas range in her kitchen.
Her screams brought Dorothy McDowell,
12 years old, from the McDowell home,
on the floor above. Finding Mrs. O'Neil
helpless with her clothing in flame, the
girl thre~r waer on her. Mrs. O~teil
was -eanea horms
WOULD MODERATE
MAIL CENSORSHIP
British Embassy Plans Confer
ence with Business Men.
Sir Richard Crawford. commercial ad
Viser of the British Embassy. is arrang
ing with prominent American banking.,
commercial. and industrial interests for!
a conference to be held at an early date!
in New York City.
The object of the conference will be
to devise some means whereby the ob
noxious effects of the British censorship
of American mails may he ameliorated.!
The volume of complaints from Amer-J
ican business interests has become so for-'
midable that the British government has
decided to treat directly with them, the
State Department through its diplomatic
efforts hailng fa.led to obtain atly relief
from England.
Announcement of the conference to bei
held in New York was construed here
by some officials to indicate that the
British rep!y to the American protest
against England's interference with
United States mails on the higzh seas will
re".t this government's cont'-ntions and
reassert England claimed right to inter
rupt mails.
The British reply. which was promised
to the State Department by the London
foreign office by the niddle of Septem
ber. has not yet been presented.
Some well informed persons, however.:
declared yesterday their lm'lief that the
reply has been received by the British
Embassy, which has delayed its presen
tation in view of the growing impatience
iof the American people- with England's
arbitrary practices injurious to this coun
try's commerce and prestige.
16 VILLlSTAS SEIZED
BY PERSHINi'S TROOPS
Bandits Captured in Mexican Raid.
Together with Arms.
47 the laternational News Service.)
Columbus, N. Mex.. Sept. 17.-Sixteen
Villistas have been captured by Gen.
Pershing's troops. The War Department
has been officially advised of the capture.
On Monday last, thirty-three motor
trucks were dispatched south for Colonia
Dublan with a battalion of negro infan-,
try. They were rushed eighty-one miles
to a point sixteen miles below Nami
quipa. There the troops raided a small
adobe settement. taking prisoners.
Sixteen Villistas engaged in organizing
a new Villa following for operations
against American and Carranza troops in
that district were captured. Much am
munition, arms, and horses were also
taken. The prisoners and munitions were
brought back to Gen. h-s~ 's head
quartets. The prihoners are .edplmed in
the stockade there.
Villa is not believed here to he any-,
whore near Namiquipa at this time
Martin Lopez. brother of the late Pablo
Lopez. Villa's on-time closest lieuten
ant. is believed to be in charge of Villa
organization work immediately south of
Pershing's forces in Chihuahua state.
PLAN TO FILL RAKS
OF Is RESERVE CORPS
Examinations Soon to Be Authorized
for Selection of Officers.
The War Department is preparing
to authorize the holding of examina
tions in the various military depart-'
ments of the country for the officers'
reservecorps, created by the last Con
gress.
This corps is expected to contain
several thousands of officers within
two or three years and be the main
reliance of the army training volun
teers in event of war.
The Reserve Corps will consist of
sections corresponding to the various
arms, staff corps and departments of
the regular army. Its members wilT
not be subject to call for service in
time of peace, except for specific
causes named In the act, and when
ever called will not be called in a
lower grade than that held by them
in the reserve corps.
Under the War Department's regu-t
lations. recently issued, boards will
be appointed by department command
ers for the examining of applicants
in their departments.
Applicants for commission of second
lieutenant must be between 21 and 32
years of age; for first lieutenant mustl
not be more than 36: for captain not'
more than 40; for major not more'
than 46.
No person will be examined unless,
he has a letter from the Adjutant:
General of the Army or the adjutant:
of the department in which he lives,
or the head of the staff corps or de-:
partment concerned authorizing his
examination.
VILLA NOW IN DURANGO;
LOPEZ AT SANTA ETENA
(Ay the Interatminal News servIce.)
Field Headquarters, American Punitive
Expedition in Mexico, Sept. 17.-Martin
Lnpez, one of Villa's war chiefs, with 1%
followers. Is In the vicirnity of Santa
Etana in the Santa Clara canyon coon-,
try, according to reports which have
reached Gen. Pershing.
According to these reports. Villa is still
In Durango and Lopez is acting under.
his instructions.
The troops of the expeditIon are en
gaged in the initial movement of the ex
tensive maneuvers planned by Gen. Per-'
shing. _______ _
TOXBSTONE SAVES HI,
*Twas After IIe Had Floated to
Cermetemy on a Ladder.
Victoria. Tex., Sept. 17.-H. J1. Mench,1
the only resident of old Indianola, which
formerly was one of the most important
ports along the Texas coast and was
abandoned after the storm of 185, had a:
nar'row escape from drowning in a recent
storm. e
The high tide caused the waters of
Matagorda Bay to inundate most of the
site of the old town and to surround Mr.:
Mench', home. He saved himsel f by
fleeting on a ladder for a distana of
about two miles to a place of safety in
Lthe ladianola Cemetery. He spent the
naht there, crouched beakti a tomb
s to protses himadf ur the wh.
a
Tetms Sink 126 Eamy
Vsmis During Angst
(By InternatsmoI News ServYte.)
Berlin (via Sayville), Sept. I7.
Official announcment was made
today that during August 121 hoe
tile ships of 170." gross tonnage
were destroyed by German or Aus
trian submarines or by mines.
Thirty-five neutral merchant
ships carrying contraband of war
to enemy countries were also de
stroyed.
Between September 3 and 11 Ger
man submarines destroyed in the
Englsh Channel and Atlantic
Ocean twenty-six hostile merchant
ships of 2.20 gros tonnage.
I3
BULGARS PUSHED
BACK BY ALLIES
Army Retreats Toward Mon.'
astir, Victors Pursuing.
I ny the Iaternutiosal News service.)
London, Sept. 1.-The Bulgarian right
wing In Macedonia, unable to check the
furious onrush of Serb. French, and
Russian fores, is continuing to retreat
northwestwards. on both sides of Lake
Oistrova, in the direction of Monastir.
Equally great preasure is exerted on
their left wing by the British and Ital
tans. on the Struma, but there the Bul
garian troops seem to be holding their
o n.
The French big guns are keeping up
an incessant drumfire against the Bul
garan center, between the Vardar and
Lake Doiran, the defenders' guns reply
ne vigorously.
The Serbs. during the last twenty-four
hours, again defeated the Bulgarians in
battles before Vetrenik and Kapmakia
[an, east of the Czerna River. according
to today's statement from Gen. Sarrail a
headquarters at Saloniki.
They also drove the Bulgars over the
Brod Rwier, northwest of Lake Ostrovo.
The defenders are "powerfully en
trenched" on the right bank of the river.
according to the official report.
Meanwhile the Franco-Russian forces
forming the link between the allied left
and center are pushing their pursuit of
the Bulgarians toward Florina.
Their advanee guards have arrived be
fore the town, but it is still held by the
Bulgarians. though its capture is expect
ed hourly.
The Bulgariafi war office late tenithl
admitted the loss of Niefsep and Nina,
mear 14ota . - .
Afllea warships shelled Kavalla.
5 AUSTRIAN rS I
SEIZED BY ROUMANIANS
ren Officers and 900 Men Captured.
Says Report.
ily the International News %ervice.)
London, Sept. 17-The capture of
five Austrian positions by the Rou
manians operating In the Transylva
nian Alps was announced by the Buch
Irest war office tonight. Ten officer
and 900 men were taken prisoners. The
statement says:
"On the northwestern front we oc
cupied Somorod. Almas, Cohalm and
Faogaras. We took Pin pi.soners. in
cluding 10 officers, and captured some
war material.
"In the Strecu Valley Bran Hilt was
-apcured by us We took seventy-six
prieoners. Our batteries sank two
munitions barges near the mouth of
Loi River
"In the Dohrudja there wereengage
ments with advanced detachments of
the enemy."
1HILLY" SUNDAY SLATED
FOR WiGTHAM REVIVAL
"Ma" Sunday Conducting Negotiations
with New York Clergy.
Iy the InternatienI News service.)
New York. Sept 1~-.Billy" Sun
day will begin a two months cam
paign in New York on March 1. A
tabernacle for His use will be con-1
structed at 16Sth street and Broa&
Way. These arrangements are subject
to change if the attitude of New York
-lergymen is negative to his interests.
A letter to this effect was received
from the evangelist's wife today. It
was read at a meeting attended by
many e'ergymen. Mrs. Sunday point
edly ' "sks what the New York
churches will do to support her hus
band. She said in part:
"If it is possible for you to state at
the moment just what is the attitude of
%our official hoard toward this campaign
we would like to know at once. We
a-ould also like to know what is ths at
titude of your people, and lastly don't
delay a moment in letting us know just
what Is your own attitudec, as a New
York minister, toward Sunday and his
camopaign."
A canvass among ministers and their
officli hoards seemed to show very
general support of the Sunday plans
No outspoken opponents were found
Some said they do not wholly approve of
Sunday, and of his control by "Ma"
Sunday, but that they would say noth
ing against the camnpaign.
$4,000,00 com ~ IMPRT.
Shipament tema ChUi--Demand
Large, Tha Supply.
New York. Sept. 17.-Demands now
made upon copper producers in this
country to supply the metal for home.
and foreign consumptIon are of such
unprecedented proportions that they
are compelled to seek other markets
to supply these wanta.
There was imported into this- part
yesterday a shipment of 6.500 tons of
the red metal in Ingots and bars the
value of which was in excess of S4.
000.000. This copper arrived on the
American steamslhip Userman frota
Valparaiso and Antetagsta. Chlle,
and was couuatee b Amaeteam late=.
AWES FORGING
AHEAD IN WE
French Capture Greater Part
of Two Somme Villages.
(By the Inte.ssslms News
London. SePt. 17.-Both the BtaSZ
French increased their gains an
Somme front duriM the last two
hours.
The French, after two days at ese
paratIve rest. resumed their drive soe
of the Somme this #afternoon. -
They captured the greater pan of S
villages of Vermandovillers sad Dmp
portions of which they have bsAi $a
more than a week.
Tonight the Germans were holding es
only In isolated places of the two vS.
lages.
The day's fighting put the French I
possession of the whole ground betwess
the Vermandovillers and Denieoourt.
Berny sectors.
At Dentecourt. the Germans are sm -
desperately defending every inch ei
round. but the two tips of the southers
line of the great salient have been coo
lelt -ly crushed in.
(n. Foch's Infantry added still fur.
ther to this succesa by capturing a num.
ber of trenche. between Berny and Bar.
leux.
Repeated furious counter-attacks wern
beaten off by the French curtain of frM
Seven hundred prisoners. Including ft.
teen ofmers, were taken by the Frenab
in the day's advance
The British last night extended th
gains near Courcelette on a front of 1.M
i irds, pushing their lines further nore.
eastward against Bapaume.
At the same time they captured the
formidable German stronghold known as
the ".Danube trench" on a front of about
a mile, near Thiepval. and the powerful
field work near the Monquet Farm. bit
T'rly contested for many weeks.
RUSSIANS RESUME
DRIVE ON LEMBERG
Launch New Offensive-Fall of Halicz
Awaited Hourly.
(By the Internatiomal News Serviee.)
-ondon. Sept. I- The Russians have
resumed the drive on lrmherg with fuU
vigor.
The Petrograd war offi e arnounced to
night that th, Russians have captured
Teuton positions south of irazezany (46
miles southeast of Lemberg), taking four-'
teen officers and 117 Turkish soldIers.
In an encircling movement againt
Halica, sixty miles south of the aineme
0ptal, the Rusa. have teh tm
Germaa prisoners. inctd thirty-ODerA
6ces. Th fa& of Hacies aepected
hourly
Simultaneously with the resumptton of
the cam;atgn a.amI Iromb.nt,:. :he Rus
-ane took the (fb" ie ir .;I) nia on
the whir front south of Pinss
The German war off, stated this aft
rnon hat the M ovrte attacks.
Taunched ' morning. afternoon and even
ing on a front of twele and one-half
mi:es. with strong foess and in numer
is waves." were tet l-ed everywhere
BELIEVE U-LINER LIES
IN WAITINIIOFF COAST
New London Authorities Expect At
rival Within Forty-Eight Hours.
I By the Isternatismal 'Vews erevie.
New London. Co.n . 'ept 1~ -Unumual
activity along the wa r front here to
night, similar to that which prevailed at
Baltimore before the Itetechland arrlved
here, lent strong belief to the persistert
rumor that another German I-liner is
waitire for a fasorable opportunIty to
make sn American port
One report from an authentic source
stated that the undersea boat has reach
ed American shorea. and t somewhere
off the eastern extremity of Long Island.
Aaiting to make Its final dash under
rover of a fog
ificials at the Vnitedittates submarine
hnse off New London this afterroon ad
mled they had heard'n a elmilar report.
but added they were making no effort
1" offer at ali becuse the, have not
been officially iformed as to the presence
of a foreign submarine in our waters.
With nthing but running lights show
Ing, a powerful sea-going tug. said to
have been chartered by ageris of the
1,erman '-tIne, left port tonight and
headed directly for the open sea This
great secrecy seemed positive proof to
British agents who have b-as closely fol
lowing the movemerts of the M A
mercantile agerte here that the
Iroked for undersea merchantman woqid
be Lire within fort'-e~ght hours.
JAMES C. COURTS, HOUSE
COMMITTEE CLERK, DIES
James C Co urta, clerk of the RoUn
Committee on Appropriations, died Yes
terday afternoon. at his summer home. at
Arunde'-on-the-Bay. Maryland. after a
brief itIness of pneumonia. He was 41
years old and had been a congressional
attache contInucusiy for forts-one years.
When Mr. Atkin became chairman of
the Commtitee on Approipriations in the
Forty-fifth Congress he named M-. Courts
asistant clerk of that committee He
sersed in this capacity from October 29.
1T7. until Janulary ". 114. pr- -
advanced to the position of e.**'eriz~g
he held until his death.
Mr. Courts is surv'.ved by his widow
and four children. Lieut Geoge Mceall
'ourts. V. . A... is his son.
MURERAT FARMERS THRIVE.
BIg Preats Made frem Mudm og
Animeata They Raise.
Madison, WI.. Sept. 17.--How 11.
censed muskrat farmers of 'Winnebae
County and vicinity got 58.435 of these :
animals during the year ending Jmne
30 and sold the hides for 625.210.60 id
told In the records of the Conservatis
Commission.
The business of muskrat raIMta b
a unique one, and this year Is the bM
recognised under the law passed bg
the government for the licensing ut
specific premises for this purpose. the
taking of the animals to be Tepestet
to the commission.
The farmer doing the largest bud
ness reported the sale of 12.135 ma
rat. bidss for a total ot h5L 8 _
