TFNA-N'CTA'L" E D I T-PCW
NIGHT
EXTRA
Euening
SMiger
NIGHT
EXTRA
' VOL. IH.-ITO. 4
ANGLO-FRENCH
PUSH ADVANCE
. ON THE SOMME
British Close in on Thiepval
as French surround
Deniecourt
O,0OO GERMANS LOST
feutons Fight Desperately, but
in Vain, to Check
' Allies
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18; 1010
Constant, Itlt, it ins rnuo Lteon Comhwt
PJIIOE ONE OBNT
TRANSLATES NEW NIPPUR TABLET
BERLIN, Sept. 18. German troops
I. j,lTe abandoned Berny, Deniecourt and
positions between liarlcux ana vcrmnn
JoTillers to the French, it was, officially
F innc-nccd this afternoon.
BERLIN, Sept. 18. Joined by fresh
reinforcements, the, Russo-Rumanian
armies hare taken up positions on a
Use extending from Rasova through
Cobtdin to Tuzla, on the Black Sea,
kfter a three day1 retreat, it was offl
daily announced this afternoon.
, LONDON, Sept. 18.
British troops began closing In upon
Thiepval last night after capturing Mouquet
frm and toolc several German trenches
south of the village. General Hate reported
tilt afternoon.
West of Mouquet farm, the Germans, re
sisting desperately the advance of the Brlt
Uh pincers, entered a British trench by a
jitsry counter-attack, but were later driven
cut
The Thiepval village position, which has
fcjld up the progress of the British left wing
since the Somme offensive began, July 1,
Was made most precarious for the Germans
viT the loss of the well-forttf.ed Mouquet
firm yesterday.
North of Martlnpulch, Hale's men Im
' broved their positions last night, and east
"of Courcelette a minor attack on enemy
trenches was successful. The Germans
tcmiarded various parts of the British lino
with great violence last .night, as If In
't preparation for a counter-attack. .
GERMAN LOSSES HEAVY
. ' Forty thousand Germans have been killed,
uu.nAaA nr rittured Blnce the Anglo-
K-tiNBch armies resumed the offensive on the
WJ .SNtme Wim oaner(iB utono .. ..... .....
I'iif Teuton lines.
Iiui'Th fighting continued north and south
!. tr 'tits' river w'ith the greatest' fury. The
. Gtririans were still clinging desperately to
UkfMllage of Dehicourt, under heavy French
i'itUek; and. making c6unter-attaeka against
Stray and Verroandovlllers, lost to the
frtnch yesterday afternooiu--
." The Allied successes have had a most
V, profound effect in Berlin, according to The
Hsrus dispatches today. The Germans had
.' ',Mn led to believe that the advance on the
Somme had been halted by the inability of
the British to capture the Fleurs-Courcelette
tew and to break through the German de-
t ffaaes around Thiepval. The German pa
r'pers are now preparing the publla for the
, evacuation of both Feronno and Combles,
and pointing out that a retirement on a
wide scale may become' necessary for
strategic reasons.
The French shifted their attack south of
the Somme yesterday to warn the Germans
Hot to withdraw troops from that sector to
Hlnforce. the battered lines north of the
, river. The assault was completely success
ful and deepened the wedge in the German
line between Peronne and Combles.
"TANKS" IN ACTION
Delayed dispatches from press headquar
ters are full of the exploits of the new
1; British armored cars or "tanks" that played
such an Important part In the capture of
IMsrtlnpulch. Flers and Courcelette in Frl-
sJk attack. One correspondent reported
if "", mey are not armored cars at all, but
land battleships that shed ordinary
i mcrine-sun fire like a duck does water,
. . . m"' O0 oamagea uy a aeaa mt from
,?a big shell.
f "The attack swung up to Flera across a
T
Continued en fate Fire. Column Two
THE WEATHER
The frenftrnl m..,)... Mn...i. j....
,v.ZiC ' ",u,c",ni is uue io develop in
CfiiH""?' United States September 26, and
i wi ,oe a moderate movement, preceded by
". wnicn win extena ahead or the
-f SAOVement In it tt.Ai-- . .,.-
MmuIv ni brln" clr onl cooler weather,
niramer movement due September 2) will
p 5 . ???'? movement, with perhaps less
-v"uon in advance than another
CTi 'i?n.he northwest and frosts in the
Wbern half of the country.
WEATHER FORECAST
?te, r.rrrioV,"."0?. lv
OAHOTIHSKH. ,r' F'
unday September U. and Monday, Sep-
eo?L bUtthhf wMk Pn and
Sward! temperatures ready to start
trri' September 28, to Thursday. Sep.
I r2i ' onowera Tuesday will precede
l-Wllli. .vurant' Am Wednesday. This
if cooler.
mmILt1 September 29, and Saturday, Sep--wer
oshowers Friday will precede an
rf-w.l "'Yemeni. this movement will
kilL . 'wther by Saturday and brinr
"ts for a couple of days. '
OFFICIAL FOBEHAK'T
p . w... :: ..
F ,tf'pAto and vieMtyFair
ItUh Uwatt ttMraUr ),, It' --
; 8ftt; gtntl vetterly phtdt.
IlK 'Uu"" Z'iS ) rt..,lo:ef p.m.
SUAWAKB KIVRR THMC CHAatW
fmSL J:0 a.m. I Low wtton. l:l.ai.
rArvM Ar sucw-jww
sisisisiaiaiaKSiaisvlsHsM ' ' - mmmU'.- Z- .tstsWsK
BLACKMAIL GANG
STALKED VICTIMS,
IN CITY'S HOTELS
1
Twenty-five Philadelphians
at Least Paid Big
Hush-Money
WOMAN GAVE UP $35,000
Prominent Persons Gladly Let
Syndicate Have Million to,
Keep Silence
Prof. S. H. Lanfrdon, professor of Assyrioloey, nt Oxford, England, and
assistant curator of the University of Pnnsylvania Museum, has just
completed the translation of a fragment of n new Nippur tablet
which deals with the reconstruction of the world following the flood,
details of which wero related in the original Nippur tablet.
WOMEN LEADERS
OF MOBS JAILED
IN STRIKE ON CARS
Tenth Day of Struggle in
New York Opens With
Violence
MEN SEEK CONFERENCE
TTEVT TOTtK, Sept IsTTWSlIne 6f con
siderable violence marked the early hours
of the tenth day of the traction strike.
Several persons were injured and four
women accused of leading one .of the mobs
were arrested.
The conflict in which the four women
were arrested occurred at Madison avenue
and 102d street. The prisoners were,
charged with disorderly conduct.
One man was injured and twenty-five
other passengers wero bruised and shaken
up when two open Third avenue surface
cars were in a rear-end collision today at
139th street. Both cars, It is alleged, were
In charge of Inexperienced strike-breaking
crews.
Police Inspector Schmlttberger today de
tailed ectra policemen in the vicinity of
the Labor Lyceum upon representation that
trouble was feared there when the striking
carmen held meetings.
Bitterness of feeling on both aides is
steadily Increasing, but the general aspects
of the situation improved today, when
Fre'sldent T, V. O'Connor, of the Longshore
men's Union, announced that, though he
had been authorized to call a sympathetic
strike, ho would take no action until
Thursday.
In the three days Intervening it is) ex
pected that earnest steps for the restora
tion of peace will be taken. A conference
of Mayor Mltchel and four of the labor
leaders, scheduled for today, yrasregarded
Continued en rase Scnn, Column Oh
MAJOR GENERAL MILLS
DIES FROM OVERWORK
Chief of Army Division of Mi
litia Affairs Collapses, Sud
denly With Pneumonia
i
WASHINGTON, Sept. 18. Major Gen
eral Albert U Mills, chief of the army di
vision of militia affairs, collapsed from the
strain he ha been under since the calling
out of the mllltla and' died of pneumonia
.here ths afternoon.
General Milts became HI at 9 o'clock last
night and sank rapidly. Attending pby
alcians said overwork In attendee to af
fairs of the mllltla was entirely responsible
for his Illness.
General Mills was only recently , pro-
moted to the grade of major general. For
two years he was president ft the army war
. ..(. ..... .ntintml tha'conrresalonal
SedTot Honor iruiy:. o. "tV dis
tlngulahed gallantry in, action near Santl-
eo Cubi. Jul 1. ',. .In encouraging
those near hira by his bravery and coolness
after beta hot through the head arid en
ttrely without sight."
in addition to a wife and daughter Gen
eral M1JU leaves ft son. Lleutewa'nt Chester
Mill ltn Unlte4 tatM Cavalry, now
.tta4 to the Philippines.
MoteroyeUst Lew ' Fet
ATLANTIC CITV, Sept. J I, -r- While
CtWetiT Bavla. of rie-sntvlUajW. riding
.otoreyole on the Meadow Boulevard on
Subway m M yertertay, htamaehwe
?iJd wHh an automobile driven ' by
?CS3 A. Wilbur, of thle otty. PavU'wee
rJwrT to the ground and his taacMiM
JJEoked. H waJ.wuht t U-Clty JUs
riili wWVhl left loet waa wiwit4
ZZ ihresrst rrow or. w ynM n
U. OF P: CURATOR
FINDS SUMERIAN
POST-FLOOD STORY
Talllet Referring to Recon
struction of Civilization
Translated
AUTHORITY FROM OXFORD
rReVuildihg'!oF the World
Told by Ancient Tablet
TjlRAGMENT of Sumerian tablet,
part of Nippur collection at Uni
versity of Pennsylvania Museum,
tells of recreation of world after
flood.
Translation mado by Dr. Stephen
Herbert Langdon, of Oxford.
Fragment is mate of famous Nip
pur tablet containing epic of flood
and fall of man, which names Noah,
not Adam, as cater of forbidden
fruit.
Search is being made f other
fragments, that would ci.jiplcte
newly found story, dating from
2250 B. C.
A new discovery In prehlstorlo literature
a fragment of the Sumerian story of the
reconstruction of civilisation after the
deluge was announced today by Doctor
Stephen Herbert Langdon, one of the fore
most Sumerian scholars in the world and
assistant curator of tin University of Penn
sylvania Museum.
The story on the shattered clay tablet
from which Doctor Langdon made the trans
lation evidently is a sequel to the Sumerian
eplo of the flood and the fall of man In
scribed on the famous Nippur tablet, which
caused a learned controversy at the Univer
sity of Pennsylvania several years ago.
Believing that the complete ftory may be
found, officials of ths museum have Insti
tuted a search among the. "tablets of the
Nippur collection for the fragments that
would-round out the narrative.
"The fragment comes from the right hand
upper corner of a tablet of the same size
as the tablet containing the eplo of par,
adlse, the flood and thecal! of man," said
Doctor Langdon, who is Shlllltoe professor
of- Assyrlology at Oxford University, "It
apparently refers to the reconstruction of
humanity after the flood. The boat or arc
is mentioned, as well as Lahama, the god
of the deluge. Then it goes on to describe
the regeneration of the ancient land of
Sumerla at the hands of the god of wisdom,
Who decreed that Sumerla should be the
center of civilization, and the Sumerlans
the rulers of the world."
So small is the fragment and so dis
figured Is the reverse that no hope of learn
ing the entire story may be entertained
without the discovery of the other frag
ments tlfat would complete the tablet, Doc
tor Langdon said. They may be among the
17,000 "books" which the University of
Cofltlntud. en rase Tire. Column Six
COOL WAVE TO COME TONIGHT
"' " i' '
High-Pressure Areas Coming East
From Middle West to Heduce
Temperature
Overeeats and red flannels may be In
good form with a cool wave scheduled to
arrive tonight and last all week. There is
a possibility that frosts may arrive ahead
of time, with the temperature dipping any
where from Ave o a dozen degrees below
normal.
The fereeast for fenlght la for flfty de.
trees, with weetly winds that may add to
the dUcowfort o( thoee still garbed fa sum
mmt clothes, The eool Wave U due, for
'tjga who eare to know, te tisJkiilt-pr.
pw 'fi- sBovtag tower ttVwwre iom
ttst MWsSt West
Twenty-five wealthy rhtladelphlans at
least have paid hush-money to members of
the "million dollar blackmail syndicate," ac
cording to Investigators of the Department
of Justice, 'who today are delving deeper
Into the Workings of the organization,
hoping to perfect a dragnet which even
tually will round-up the whole band.
The "syndicate" Is said to have made
$1,000,000 last year preying on wealthy vic
tims in Philadelphia, Atlantic City New
York and Chicago. Philadelphians, how
ever, are said to have been the chief suf
ferers. It Is known that one Philadelphia
woman paid I3E.000 when threats were
made to expose a "little affair."
WORKED IN HOTELS
While the Government has been on the
trail of the gang for many months, and re
gardless of the fact that the swindling has
been effec'trd In tho best hotels, almost un
der the nosrs of tho police, many of the
swindlers are known as the craftiest of
criminals. Thus they have been able to
escape arrest. '
A bomb was exploded In the "syndicate"
camp in Chicago last Saturday, when after
months of Investigation Government detect
ives arrested four men and three women,
said to be members of the gang.
Those arrested were Helen Evers, wife
of George Irwin, said to bs the leader of
the gang; Henry Itussell, Edward Dona
hue, alias Doc Donahue; Mrs. Frances Al
len, Mrs. Edward Donahue, Jimmy Chris
tlan, alias W. J. Cross, and George Bland,
They will bo arraigned beforo a United
States commissioner In Chicago Tuesday.
They probably will bo tried in Philadelphia,
owing to the fact that most of the offenses
were committed here. They were arrested
just as five wealthy men in Chicago had
been "sized up" ready for the "picking."
Special agents of the Department of Jus
tice were ordered from Washington and
New York today to Chicago to aid in com,
pletlng .the tdenUgcatlon otthe alleged,
Blackmailers urid"er arrest there. Al Bruce
Blelaskl, chief of the Investigation Bureau,
said that the department was not yet fully
Informed as to tho Identity of tho persons
under arrest, as some of them are operating
under assumed names.
He said, however, that he was con
vinced that the men and women under ar
rest In Chicago are the leaders of the
band which has operated all over the East,
especially at summer resorts, nnd that ad
ditional arrests will be made very shortly.
ONE OF THEM "SQUEALED"
Members of the gang can attribute their
downfall to the working of that old adage,
"When thieves fall out." Frank Crocker,
a member of the gang, felt that he had
been double-crossed and took Ills revenge
on his erstwhile associates by going to the
Government agents with his tale.
"We've got Crocker In the county Jail,"
said Clabaugh today. "Crocker was the
man from whom information about tho band
first came."
Crocker lives at 41 Blckerstaff street.
Boston. He was a member of the gang that
fleeced Mrs. neglna Kllpper, of Philadel
phia, according to Clabaugh.
"Crocker didn't get what he thought was
coming to him out of that deal," said the
Government investigators. "He followed
Irwin and French, two members of the
gang previously arrested, to Chicago. Ho
renewed his demands and they laughed at
him. .Then he 'squealed.' It waa after this
that Mrs. Kllpper was kidnapped.-
Continued on Tact Thirteen, Colomn Fonr
25,000 DOPE VICTIMS
IN CITY, SAYS CONVERT
George Long, of Inasmuch Mis
sion, Tells of Drug Rav
ages Here
Social workers throughout the city today
are discussing the assertion of George Long,
superintendent of Inasmuch Mission, that
there are more than 25,000 dope fiends In
Philadelphia. Mr, Long made thl state
ment In an address on dope last night at the
mission.
Captain William J, Norton, of the Volun
teers of America, said today in regard to Mr,
Long's statement;
"There certainly must be fully that num
ber of drug iddicts In this 'city, and the
number is on the Increase. Narcotlo drugs
are undermining the health and morals of
tho city. Our Tenderloin Is manufacturing
dope fiends by the hundred every month.
The pity of It Is that the scourge is getting
the young girls and boys seventeen years
old."
Mr. Long -told his audience that Philadel
phia was the headquarters of (he Jlllclt
narcotlo drug Uafllc of the United States.
Tons of dope, he asserted,, are annually
shipped from this city to all sections ?t the,
country. '
Many In the audience were former dru.j
addicts and they listened with deep interest
to tbe'Btory of Mr. Long's own experience
as a dope fiend. Long began using narcotlo.
drug when he -was it years old and. did
not abanden the habit until he had reached
his th,lrty-tMr4 year, wjUn he was eon
verted in the QeUtee Mllei.
"I took asy Art awake ed a&itm," b
MjeVwfcM I wee MUe yem atsU Ofdw
fWf II SSM us
e Ktsje t. CMsMtsj Mew
QUICK NEWS
CHICAGO 0 00
PHILLIES 1 0 0
NATIONAL LEAGUE
CINCINNATI O O O 1 O O O O
BROOKLYN, 1st e. 1 O O O 1 O 2 O
Schneider and Wlngoj Cheney nnd Miller.
PITTSBURGH ....OOOOOOOO
NEW YORK, 1st g..O O O 1 O O O 1
Miller nnd Wngucr; Scbupp and Mccarty.
O- 1 7 3
J- 4 10 2
O- O 3 1
x- 2 SO
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Havre de Grace race, 3-year-olds and up, 0 furlongs Pal
anquin, 110, Troxler, $3.70, $2.40, $2.50, won; Plumose, 107, Kcogh,
$2.50, $2.00,- second; Far Away, 110, Bulingam'e," $0.00, ,' third.
Time, 1.13 4-5.
YEAR'S SENTENCE FOR MOTORIST WHO KILLED MAN
HARIUSBURG, Sept. 18. Clarence L. Bates, who ran down and
killed George Donahue, of Lebanon, wliile driving an automobile at
bigb speed between Hnrrl3burgjmd Lebanon two weeks ago, pleaded
guilty of involuntnry manslaughter in the Dauphin County court to
day and was sentenced to one year in the penitentiary by Judgo
Kulcuel. "Let this bo notification," salU the Judgo in (passing sen
tence, "that tho Douphin County court proposes to rabc the standard
of the sanctity of human life, within its jurisdiction."
REBEL ST0NEMEN
INVITE CLERGY TO
NEW FELLOWSHIP
Old Order Tried to Elect
Porter Mayor, Is
Charge
ADDRESS TQ MINISTERS
DOPE QUARANTINE CAUSES "ARSENAL" TO CLOSE
Poor business since a quarantined was clamped on the Arsenal Is the cause
given by "Jako" Baumgardner for closing up the place, notorious, nesting: place for
dope fiends, at Tenth and Winter streets. The closing up last night was preparatory
to an auction to be held tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock. The place gtqw so un
savory that policemen woro continuously stationed at, ths doors ft -week aso last
Thursday. J v w ..-ij-r.- '."...
tjfl
SSSSSSSSBa 'lBBBH '"
HHHs-sBHHHBB
IisVLvBbC)LBv Br 1
bhbhHssmbhs ' "HsT-l
I jHHHHRi L 1a' sSi
NEW YORK CENTRAL ORDERS 230 LOCOMOTIVES ;
NEW YORK, Sept. 18. Tho New York Central Railroad nan placed an order.
tot US0 engines, pt which one-half were placed with the American Locomotive, Com
pany and the remainder with the Lima Locomottvo Corporation. Most of these
engines nre of large size arid the total of the order is. around $10,000,000. Locomo
tives are for delivery Into next year.
STOCK MARKET CONTINUES STRONG AND ACTIVE
NEW YORK, Sept. 18. There was a continuation of strength in the stock
market with the opening of the Stock Exchange this morning. Commission houses
had nn accumulation of buying orders and the exception of these caused general
advances at tho start. United States Steel common again made another new top
mark, selling at 10SH, a rain of , as compared with the closo of Saturday. Rail
road stocks wero in good demand.
PREiMIER ASQUITH'S SON KILLED IN ACTION
LONDON, Sept. 18. Lieutenant Raymond Asqultli, son of tho British Premier,
has been killed at the front In action, it was announced today. He was in. the
Grenadier Guards. lie was 38 years old.
GUARDS ON BORDER TO RETURN AS NEW ONES ARRIVE
"WASHINGTON, Sept. 18, The War Department today ordered General Funs
ton to return as many guardsmen to their homes from the border as ho receives in
the now contingents now on the way there, or under orders to so. Approximately
7000 men will be released by the order. The Second New York Infantry will be
among the first to return.
POLICE SUBDUE ANGRY DEPOSITORS IN RUN ON BANK
CHICAGO, Sept. 18. Police, witn riot clubs, fought an angry and panicky
crowd of depositors Jn the bank of Schlff & Co. today. Alarmed by the numerous
failures, of private banks in Chicago in the last month, the depositors started a run
on the bank Hoon after it opened Its doors today, The crowd stretched a block on
cither side of tho bank. In it were many women, who became hysterical. Bank
officials Bald it was uolvent and all depositors would bo paid.
ADMIT BREMEN IS HEADED FOR NEW LONDON
NEW LONDON, Conn., Sept. 18. Representatives of the Eastern Forwarding
Company, American agents for the German mercantile submarines, admitted for
the first time that the Bremen would put In here if It succeeded In crossing the
Atlantic, but said the vessel was not due for several days. They were not sur
prised when tho tuj T, A. Scott, Jr., returned today after a search of fourteen hours
without finding the submarine,
FOOD RIOTS IN VIENNA
' LONDON, Sept. 18 Food disorders have broken out in Vienna, said a Genova
dispatch to the Exchange Telegraph today. Beef Is selling at 14 a pound and rice
at J2 a pound. There Is terrible distress among families of working men, the dis
patch added.
U. S. ARMY BOMB MAKER AT WORK HERE I
Lester P. Bnrlow, Inventor of an aerial bomb which. Is believed by United States
Army experts to be the most effective of weapons for use in war aeroplanes, Is
occupying temporary ornce In the Pennsylvania Building, Fifteenth 'and Chestnut
streets, where he is superintending the construction of his device. The destructive
radius of the bomb Is "1500 feet, and there Is nothing electrical about It, Mr. Barlow
says. Instead of regulating Its timing to the second, the second is split Into 400
parts.
COOLER WEATHER TO AID HAY FEVER VICTIMS
The approach of cooler weather and the prospect of a hard frost will furnish
relief to victims of hay fever, according to a statement of the United States Weather
Bureau In Washington. This opinion Is also shared by Doctor Krusen, Director
of the Department of Public Ileiitluand Charities.
PENNSYLVANIA GUARDSMEN LOST IN DESERT
CAMP STEWART, El Paso, Tex., Sept. 18, Keen apprehension is manifested
here today for the safety of forty-five, men and their officers of Cenrpany M, Tenth
Vennsylvanla Regiment, as the result of reports that they are marooned en tat
dert In ,the Big Bend country with a meager store of supplies.
REVENUE "LEAKS" TO EXTENT OF ?21,OOQ,000 STOPPED
WASHINGTON. Kept. II. Through the dlacovery of frauds, evasions and
errors, the Internal Kevnue Bureau has recovered In the last, thras. yre mire
than enough mosey to pay the tPnsxi C the. Internal rtvMvu srvloa, sy a
it muum. by ths Treasury ufmuimat. Answorisaatsiy ttl.MMM wi
to tfc thus m, sod tk wrinnw t ths bwssAt to tin Mrtod ww
. i
'IN'STONfeMEN'S SPLIT
Above, is tho Rov. II. C. Stone,
founder. 6f the Stonemen's Club,
.. against whom a revolt haifvbccn
started by a seceding organisation
known' as the' United Protestant,
Fellowship, which is headed by
Harry T. Baxter, whose portrait -appears
below.
.I i
An Invitation was extended today to the
clergymen of the Presbyterian and Metho
dist churchts, to Join the United Protestant
Fellowship, composed of hundreds of men
who seceded from the Stonemen's Fellow
ship on Saturday and Immediately formed
the new organization.
This and the charge that" tho Stonemea
were urged to v6te for Director porter in
the mayoralty election were the big de
velopments today In the controversy be
tween the Stonemen and the seceders.
Co-operation of clergymen in the new
body was urged by Harry T. Baxter, 1938
South Seventeenth street, .head of the new
fellowship, who Invited the ministers to Join.
Ho appeared before the meetings of .the
Presbyterian ministers, at WlthtrspooB
Building, and also before the Methodist
ministers, at Wesley Hall, Seventeenth and
Arch streets.
In addressing the clergymen, Mr. Baxter
said he wanted them to tales art active' part
In the new -organisation. IIe,assured th
there would be no "thh-d degree" Inltlatlosi
or laying on of hands, which' was tho chief j
cause of the revolt, In the Stonemen's or
ganlratlon. t
' NO ONE-MAN RULE.
Baxter also said there would be' no ob
man rule and that every member of. the
new body would have an opportunity ts
participate in the actions of the body,
The charge that the Stonemen were ur4
to support Porter was made by William F.
Deakyne, a real estate dealer with offiees In
the Bellevue-Stratford, He saldt
"On registration day before tho mayora'Hy
election. Doctor Stone got, up In a meeting
of Stonemen In Convention Hall and urc4
them to register.. After he had concluded
his address some of his lieutenants weo4
through the audience and told the men V
vote for the candidate of the Franklta,
Party ticket. Everybody understood that
the Stonemen were.out to elect Porter.
"When I was first appointed chairman of
the organisation's building commission, Da
Stone told me he wanted an audltsrium t
seat 55,000. I saw the scheme was ira
practicable, especially the schema of buy
ing certificates at J J, so I withdrew. The
I was' made chairman of the Aim no esm
mlttee. " asked Dr. Stone, to put the oraal-'
tlon on a"bualnebaU. 'and then WttMsta
Krlps was made 'treasurer. All bills
supposed .to. seme to .the ftmnse
tee and then seat .to the treasurer 'fee
meat - ,
SAW NO AOOOUNTINO
"I mvw .saw1 a afnojie WU while I
ohatrHMH and wyr has etifnftiMmr
lsrs the i'iaio t Um fstynMbss.
"When. pmft Tffnainit jHtr
trouMtrsr, M ?
Ing. N sssn'wllsr rsaJessd far
trips t rttwsmm) awl asranVun.
"W hj4 am Ssisssssnt to rent tits Wslrs
BoiiiSJt Osif Hsu .for tieoe a
"W MS 'ths, Misuse iiy' Katurday
and, osUeStsd Hit for' rent, on ritg
mSTFST' " "" w" wwre lv in
SSS ws wars setiy site
'1
v J
,'t-l
A
-,-,.. rtl
t saunas at s mwUac of Uba
Mssssssussllosi thai Kfim askslj
.
