9$r n
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
rVVISNTY-SEVENTH XF.AH " . .8 'PJttW inw. . PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY JIOKN1NG, SUPTHMliEU 18, 1910
8 Pi.GES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 122
RT1
a BY MIIS
f
BRITISH AND FREER ARE
' IN SOMML REGION TAKE MANY
PRISONERS AND IffllTION
(By Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
German poaitiona exceeding four miles in length were captured Satur
day night and Sunday by the British and French armies in the Somme
region.
War material and many prisoners were captured. German counter At
tacks were repulsed with large losses to the Germans, according to London.
The British took a fortified position over a front of a mile, near Cour
celette. An advance of about 1,000 yards was made and the strongly de
fended position at the Mouquet farm fell into their hands.
South of the river the French pushed back Germans and occupied the
remainder of Vermandovillers and Berny, and also captured all the ground
between Vermandovillers and Deniccoi'rt and between Deniecourt and Bern
the gain bemq over a front running northeast two miles and thence ecst
another mile.
The advance of the British apparently brings their front to within a
mile of Grand-court and the Albert-Bpaume railway. GranHcourt is being
bombarded by British. The success of the French seemingly is another
move of the right flank of the entente toward the pocketing of Peronne.
Hard fiqhtinq hc been resumed from the Pripet marsh region in Russia
through Galicla and up in the Carpathian mountains. Berlin and Vienna
claim the repulse of Russian attacks rn a front of about 12', '2 miles west of
Lutsk, in Grlicia, and in the Carpathians at several points.
Near the Marajowka river, however, Berlin admits that the front of
Archduke Charles Francis was pushed back by the Russians.
Petrograd records an advance for 'the Russians south of Brzeiany,
southeast of Lemberg, and th capture of more than 3.000 Germans ii
figKing alonq the Anraiuvka river and the Podvyscke-Halicz railway.
Buchr.rest reports the occupation nf additional towns in Transylvania.
Berlin and Sofia assert that the forces of the central powers ii Dob
rudia are in pursuit of Rumanians and Rucsians.
Further progress for the entente allies on the Macedonian front and by
the Italians in Albania, is reported in the London. Paris sod Rome com
munications. Kavala is under bombardment by the entente fleet. Sofia
admits the loss of Nidje Planina, near Lake Ostrovo. French and RustMn
troops are approaching Fiorina cros tee Greek frontier south of Monastir,
while the Serbians have reached Vetrenik and KaimacValan.
Italians in their quest of Triest have von stronn positions from Aus
trian in mnqumry fighting. Southeast of the Doberdo heioht the Fene
trition of Austrian lines is admitted by Vienna, but the official communi
cation says the Italian losses were extremely heavy.
Germans are Repulsed '
w.-suvs.. MPi. --r" "-
ter attacks were launched by the Ger-
mans Sunday aeainst the newlv ac
imiroil Urttish rumili.m mi h Komme
front Th. Rriiiah rtilierv fir m.iv
the official statement from Keneral
headquarters, caught the attacking
o.i ,ii,. .i iW.m -i.h k,-,
i,..
1 -t r i e
m.?""' ,h.n " : ' h ".rV
a mile and a
scored by the Kritiah last night In
pressing their offensive north of the
. . . . , i ......
tomme, the war office announced this
fternoon. "" The "Danube trenrh
about one 'mile long, was taken and
further territory on a thousand yard
front near Courcelette was captured.
M. Kalogeropoulos, the new Greek
premier, declares that the new gov
ernment will observe the most henevo-
lent neutrality towara ine emcnie.
j..iyi a ncuicr uiiiiv.ii Hum nwinw
today. '
He repudiates allegations that he Is
i.crmanopniie. loin me uispau.ii. -.i-
though he confesses that he is an ad-
mirer 01 uermany. ,
Prince Albert, second son of Kins
ijporee, nas nren inapuvi muiiht
account of an abdominal abscess,
says an official communication issued
today. The communication adds mat
the prince, who has undergone an op-
eration. is doing well, but it will be
some time before he is able to return
to any duty. I
I
Prinre Albert, while serving as a
midshipman on board the battleship 1
Collingwood at the outbreak of the
war, was stricken with appendicitis
and operated on. me prince is 11
vears old.
A Lloyd's dispatch from Copenhagen
today announces that the !anish
uteamer J. X. Madvig of 1.7C4 tons"
gross, has been sunk. The crew was
saved. A Reuter dispatch from Copen-
ha gen today says:
"fierman newspapers report a trial
at which sixteen men and women were
sentenced variously to from five to
twelve months" In prison, on the charge
of rioting slnd looting at Brunswick
last May. The evidence revealed a
Beauty Of Women Is Bait Of
An Alleged Blackmail Gang
Republican A. P. Leased Wliej
CIIICA'IO, &it. 17. Kiglu mem
bers of an alleged blackmail gang,
charged with using the beauty of
their women members and the fas
cinating appearance of their male
"confederates to mulct wealthy men
and women out of more than $250,000,
are In custody of federal authorities
here toilav and will be taken to
Philadelphia for trial.
The hand, including five men and
three women, was arrestees shortly
before midnight last night in a raid
bv' department of Justice officials on
a fashionable south side apartment
house.
The women, according to the
authorities, are young and beautiful.
The, men are well groomed and of a
type calculated to impress society
women.
They arc accused of fleecing men
and women of social prominence In
'hieago. Baltimore. New York and
Philadelphia, through organized ef
forts. Their schemes, according to
llinton O. Clabaugh of the depart
ment of Justice, was to cotnprolnise
heir victims and then blackmail
them. Impersonation of department
of justice, officials is another chf.rp"
against the men. They are said to
have used the charms of their women
confedoiates to win attention from
rich men and then to have threatened
their victims with prosecution under
, the Mann act. ,
Those airested gave the names of
Henry Russell. Edward Donhue,
Helen Evers. Mrs. Frances Allen, Mrs.
F.d. llonah'ie, James Christian, Frank
Crocker ami Oeorgo Bland. Oeorge
Irwin, alleged director of the group,
Is still at large.
The principal charge against, the
complete reign of error in the town,
lastiap several davs until martial law
w;s proclaimed and tr.v,; suppressed
the disorder.
"The e.rigin of the disturbance seems
" havc 1",pn a Proclamation enjoining
,h utmost fruga ity. and a consequent
rumor that potato peelings would be
uml for fofid. This Idea aroused the
people to the highest fury
M'redit for the new "traveling land
forts" which have been used during
the pact tew days on the British front,
belongs to two men. Lieutenant Colonel
1 n iiiiik.-i v., iwif iii.ii, iijrutr lain v.oiuuri
K Swmton of ;he ,ntriKenre de.
imrtment of - the . general staff and
Major Stern. Lieutenant Colonel Swin-
ton will he remembered aa one of the
officers "eye witnesses" who wrote
accounts of the early days around
Ypres for British newspapers. Major
Stern Is a business man who has been
for ,mt tjmp jn the emu!oy nf tne
itrinsn government,
Their description In as follows:
"These long. low. dustcolored tor
tomes have no resemi:ance to motor
cars. They are in fact steel land ships
ot immense power and wonderful cap-
aeity. In practice they can climb walls
iiusn tnroiiKn dense woods, cross
trenches and maneuver in and out of
rraters. One of the most remarkable
facts about them is the secrecy with
which the making of their thousands of
parts was veiled in the midland town
of their birth. The army likes them
but it is not placing too much reliance
on what is for the present only an ex-
periment."
.
(Continued on Page Seven)
fj Q
, 1
MINING ENGINEERS ON
WAY TO INSTITUTE
I KL r'ASO, Sept. 17. A party of
165 delegates of the American In
htitute of Mining Kngineers storf
ied off here today to visit the local
smelter and also to aee the army
camps. The institute opens next
I Tuesday in Douglas, Ariz., and has
I r.essions In various other mining
I renters of Arizona.
band is the alleged kidnapping of
Mrs. Itegina H. Clifford of Philadel
phia, one of their alleged victims, and
wanted as a government witness. Hh
was Fplrited away to Canada, it is
charged, at the time she was wanted
to tes'ifv against the band.
"The chief offenses charged against
the band occurred in Philadelphia,
and for that reason they will be taken
there for trial." said Clabaugh today.
Clabaugh said there were fifteen
known victim of the gang, and that
the amount obtained from these vic
tims will reach probably 2 5(1.0(10.
Forty tliousaird dollars was obtained
from one victim, and P.5,000 from
another, Clabaugh said.
Authorities refused to reveal the
nmes of the victims. Some, it was
Russians And Poles Start
Run On Strong State Bank
Republican A. P. Lease Wire
CHICAGO, Sept. 17. Russians and
., , , ,.. ' , .
Botes in Chicago s west side foreign
quarter, panic stricken by failure of
several private banks. Jammed " and
i.juKiii ineir way touay into a. state
bank In that district and created a run
on that institution. The bank was that
01 ncniii ana company, which has
more than 2.500,000 in deposits and la
believed to be absolutely solvent. '
Hanka In the west side foreign eiuart-
turn are opened Here for n fnm h,,,,ro
on Mimiay. when the Schiff bank
opened at 8:30 a. m. a crowd of de
positors entered and began withdraw-
Villas Troops Execute
CLARKDA
HUNTING TRIP IS
CLOSED WITH TRAGEDY
CANON' CITY, Colo., Sept. 17.
While returning from a hunting
trip Kiierly (iould accidentally shot
and probably fatally injured his
brother Marshall aged s years near
this city last night. The older boy
was carrying the rifle over his
shoulder and the young brut her
waa trudging along behind when in
some unknown manner the gun
went off. The bulet struck the
child in the head and passed
through the upper part of the
brain. Little hope is entertained
for his recovery.
u-
-u
Republican A. P. Leased Wirt
LONDON'. Sept. 17. All Kngland Is
ringing with the story of Lieutenant
1 olonel John rord f.lkington -one
the strangest romances of this strange
rorlil war. It is the evtr-apiK-aling.
human story of another man who
"came hack."
I'ismisseil by cocrt martial from
the army he bad served for nearly
thirty years. Just as his tegiinent was
going Into action In France In the
closing months of 1914, this KnglU'i
officer, disgraced at a time of life
when the chances of fa,e weighed
J;eavily ugainst a man fighting for
lost honor, found refuge in that queer
est of all military organisations, the
foreign 'eglon of France.
Lost In the mazes of battlefields.
mre legionnaire in the ranks Colonel
Klktngton. late of the HoyaH Warwick
hires, was all but forgoften. None
of his old friends, his old fellow offi
cers. i:one of the men who had seen
Mm in the queen's medal for valor
in South Africa, none of these knew
that Klklngton waa nut there some
where in France," recklessly winning
his way had:.
Hut now Klklngton Is back in Kng
'and. 1'lnned on his breast are two
of the toveted honors of KraiH e the
military medal and the military cross,
but most valued possession of nil is a
hit of paiiea which wiiies out the er
rors of the past a proclamation from
th official London (iazette announc
ing that the king has graciously ap
proved the reinstatement of John
Kord Klklngton in the rank of lieuten
ant colonel, with his previous senior
ity. In consequence, of his gallant con
duct while serving In the ranks if
the foreian legion of the French army.
Not only has Colonel Klklngton been
restored to the army, but he has been
'eapnointed in his old rcgimnt. th
Vtoval Warwlckshtres. In which hi
father served before him.
In this same Iindon Opzette. at the
end of October 1!M4 had appeared tec
rmshln announcement that Klking
ton had bren cashiered bv sen'enre of
general court martial. What, his errn
waa did not at ear at the time, and
fContlnned on Page Two
said, ar! men prominent in political
life, who wer" victimized while at the
eniibltcan convention here last June.
imring . the raid. -which had iieen
carefnllv planned for many weeks, an
elaborate opium outfit was found in
or.e of the apartments raided.
Federal authorities said tonight that
one of the g:ui. Henry Russell, had
nosed ss n brother of Mayor William
Male Thompson of Chicago and had
used this alias In a plot.
"Hill" Wodilward. another alleged
director of the gang. Is also being
sought, Clabaugh said.
The raid was made only after the
apartment 'otiildirsr- had been literally
sown with dictographs. These were
connected with an adjoining building,
where the detectives hid.
' ing funds. Police protection was asked.
More ihan 0.. mostly In savings
accounts, had been withdrawn when
the hunl! cosed at , p m Slimuoi
Kediustcr, cashier, announced there is
plentyof money on hand and that all
depositors who wish -will be paid to
morrow.
Kchuster blamed the run on the ex
citement caused by the crash of the
silver and company, Michael Michniuk
I and Sons, and the M. C.inshurg. and
Sons, private lianka within a few
1 ......
Kchlff and company Is one of the
largest banking institutions on the
west side,
DISGRACED IN .
ENGLAND COMES
BACK IN FRANCE
LE-MESA
. . .. 1
J.S.UIIM
HEAD DF THE
i n coin
Proposing to build from Clarkdale
to Mesa, to eonnect an iuf.nitely ri-'li
mining and agricultural country with
either the Arizona Kastern or the pro.
posed Tucson, Phoenix and Tidewater
line, the Arizona Rxlensinn Railroad
company has filed Its r.rtiiles of in-
' orporation with the corponition cum
missHin. Men prominent ii. mining
finance in Arizona, and known natlo
ally for their collection w'th the big
test cot. per interest e.f the southwest.
are buck of the company.
The Verde valley, a fertile agricul
tural region, surrounded by moun
tains, the wealth f which no m;in
knows or can estimate, will be the
route of the railroad. Clarkdale, whi' ii
will be the northern terminus of the
line, is to Is? connected with Jerome
ty a seven-mile br.inch iine. running
by way of the mouth of the I'nited
Verde Extension tunnel month. An-othe-r
branch, five miles In length, will
connect Clarkdale with the United
Verde g' proixjkd re-duct Ion w orks.
James S. IwiuglaK of 4hc Copper
Queen, Is president of the com piny.
Among the directors are K. O. Kills.
Tames P. Boyle. II . Williams an I
S P. Applewhite, the latlir. se'ietary
ef the Ooiiglas Investment comiwinv.
The corporation will be capitalized
Bt four million dollars.
South and east from Clarkdale. the
right of way will follow the valley,
tapplrg th country from which the
famous anples and p;ich come. It
will touch In nt a number of noints
where Irrigation on a nuill scale has
made the most h.-autiful and fertile
tots in the s'at". Southward along
the Verde, It will follow ;he rlvr
more clo-wh. emerging Into the Sait
River vnllcv nenr (;ranite Reef. A
brfdire will be nece.if-nrv to catrv fhe
'Ine aiross the Salt, and thence it wili
turn westward to M-s.i. which, when
th, Jimp is ccrnp'.i ted. v.-ill bc'. onie an
invoit.ir.: junction.
In the (.yent the Ttl'ron. PlioeniN
-md Tidewater road is built. th-nrkr!.-,le-Me-sr
line will cemnvct v.Ph
it. for tiie two concerns ore allied.
many nf their backers being the same
men.
Navaio-Southern Revived
!e.vs was received yesterday that
the XaviMo-South'Tn riilroad si heme
worked nit a number of years alo
and drooped, as were manv irriga
tion projects In Nav.ijo county, is to
'e revived. The survevs and such
other assets of the old concern ns nr"
available, lvve been tiken over by
ihe Western I ine Lnrrilier and Mill
ing company. The ulim is to built a
railroad south from Holbrook to Pine
ton, tapping a wonderfully ri,n t'm
ber country pin! incidentally opening
up an agricultural region of grc;it
promise. If Its plans are perfected,
the new company will tw the mean'
of stimulating the reclamation of
thousands of acres of valu'ihle land
along the l ittle Colorado, :ind mav
oyep onep jn a new fruit oistn.-t in
the highlands of sen'thern Novaji
con nt v.
The article of Incorporation of the
new company are now beinr publishe.l
and some action may be expecte:!
shortly. It is thought.
Tremendous Possibilities
It is no flight of fancy to see .1
tremendous development of the mul
tifarious resources of Arizona coming
within the next f w vears. Ptiring
the p.T.st ve.ir. unprecedented prosper
ity of the mining and agricultural
districts has opened the wav of fi-
nancinT big schemes. The raw ma
terial lies at hand awaiting the touch
f money to bring about industrial
changes that will surprise the world.
n every industry the state nosse'sses.
there are possibilities tbat are little
short of marvelous, and aceorrl'nir to
financial experts, their realization is
now a matt"r of but a few years.
Another Rumor
Of the Coming
Of the, Bremen
Republican A. P. Leased .Wire
NKW LONDON, Conn., Sept. 17. A
persistent report from apparently re
liable sources that the German under
sell merehantman Kreman was ap
proaching this port temight lacked
confirmation at. a late hour. The first
report stated that a fcubmarine wa
scn off Fisher's Island in Long Island
Sound at nine o'clock headed for New
London, a two hours' run. Credence
was attached to the report when the
ocean-going tug T. A. Scott, Jr., put
out to sea under hurried orders.
A newspaper tug which followed the
T. A. Scott. Jr., returned Ju;.t before
midnight with the information that
.there was a heavy fog over the sound
and nothing had been seen of a sub
marine. At midnight, the T. A. Scott,
Jr.. had not returned.
During the day, one of the United
States submarines was maneuvering
off Hlock Island, hut returned heiv
early in the evening. It is believed
in:te mis auoinarines actions mav
rae given rise to the rumor of the
approach of the German boat.
Surprise Attack On Chihuahua
RAILROAD
THREATENED STRIKE
MAY NOT OCCUR
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YORK, Sept 17. Doubt was
expreascd tonight that the threatened
:;l.il;c tomorrow in sympathy with the
car nun who piit their places here
September 6. would occur. Thomas
V. ( minor, president of the Inter
national Longshoremen's assignation,
announced that the members of his
union would not be called out before
Thursday, "if at all."
Leaders of the various trades un
ions announced that they were can
vas ing the returns of the "sympa
thetic stiilee" vote of from 70,000 to
so. (mo workers allied with transit op
eration in this city. It was said that
many ot the local unions listed to the carmen hut for better workinr
participate in te "walkout" tomor- conditions and increased pay. The
row had vested strike call powers in : fact, the m.-n said, that the coal sup
their officers and that the workers 1 plv of the local transit company may
would he prepared to leave their plac-I he endane-ered. was on'y incidental.
EORIRbOTRAI
MAYOR SETH LOW
ANSWERS CALL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YORK. Sept. 17. Seth Low,
formerly mayor of New York and one
time president of Columbia University,
died late today at his country home.
ISroaddbrOok Farm, Bedford HiUs, X.
Y., at the age of 68 years. He had
been ill several months eif a complica
tion of diseases.
A change for the worse was an
nounced last night, and it was then
said the iatient probably could not re
cover. Mr. Low's most recent activities were
exerted in an effort to find a solu
tion of the differences between the
railroad brotherhoeids and the railroads.
Since the outbreak of the European
war Mr. Low had been especially active
as president of the New York Chamber divided as follows: Wholly maiufac
of commerce and president of the Xa- tur(,d Roods; semi-manufactured goods
tionai Civic Federation. He was chair-
man of the executive committee of
Tuskogee Institute, a dclegate-at-large
to the recent New York state consli-
tutional convention and a member of a
government commission appointed to
investigate labor troubles in Colorado.
..r ihro. mnnih. nrinr In hi. Illn...
he devoted himself almost exclusively
to trying to find a solution of the dif
ferences between the railroad brother
hoods and their employers.
Even after he was stricken, he kept
In touch with the brotherhood heads,
Samuel Gompcrs, president of the
American reaeration 01 Labor, ana 1 ,hat thiti chanKe frora free trade to 1 o clock Friday night and toe the peni
other union leaders with whom he was protection would net a yearly revenue tentiary and the municipal and federal
on terms of intimate friendship. Until ()f about $375,000,000. palaces. General Trevino recaptured
his illness assumed an acute stage sev- Every precaution is urged in the re- the public buildings and ceunpletely
eral weeks ago Mr. Ixw busied himself , port to assuage neutral nations to pre-' defeated the attackers in the early
with plans of the national civic federa- rent them from making commercial morning light. The captured men will
tion, in which he was deeply Interested. I alliances with enemy countries after be tried by court martial.
Mrs. 1iw and other members of the the war. The difficulties are spoken of General Obregon has sent a message
household were with him when he died, j as follows: of congratulations to General Trevino
Arrangements for the funeral have not "It must also be rememlered that Several of the captured men already
been completed. 'our allies have tariff arrangements i have been tried bv court martial and
Seth Low was twice mayor of
(Continued on Page Two)
GERMNS FORDED
.Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WITH THE r.RITlSH ARMY IN
FRANCE. (Via London) Sept. 18. The
British teiday took the Moquet farm.
On two former occasions they had been
on the premises, but were unable to
remain there. Ifwas a strong position
on the right of the British battle line
where a garrison of Germans and their
machine guns aeemed proof against
shell fire.
They had the usual deep cellars and
runways underground and, driven from
one exit by shell fire, they would
emerge from another. The British got
entirely around their burrows and
called down the cellar stairs for them
to surrender. The Germans thought
that a counter attack would come to
their assistance as before. The British,
however, assured them that none would
come as they had the trench all the
way around the farm to prevent their
exit or aid from coming to them. Still
the Germans refused to yield, and the
result was that he Briish blew in all
the cellar doors. But such persistent
diggers are the Germans that the Bri
tish are not certain hut they had
sonic underground passage for escape.
The British also cleared up the
Danube trenches in the old German
first line near Thiepval, which is the
hinge of the Somme battle line.
The German official report of Fri
day's battle made peculiarly interest
ing reading here. It spoke of repulsing
an English attack on Comhles. The
correspondent happened to be at that
end of the line where he could tibserve
the action and no British infantry
' moved on Combles. Small bodies ot
VlCTIMS.OFBRITISH SHELLFIRE
PLANNED
es on Fhort notice. . Meads of the
transit lines declared the car mens
strike was Ineffective. Service on
subway and elevated lines continued
1101 mal and steady improvement was
noted on all surface roads.
Several mass meetings were held In
the citv but there was no disorder. At
one me-eting the "financial and moral"
suppoit of the sfK-ialist party was
assured to the strikers.
The Tidewater Boatmen's union,
with a membership, it was said, of
nooo, tonight voted to go on strike.
No date was set for the men to quit
work.
The strike. H was asserted, will be
in no way a sympathetic tine with
OF WORLD Ef'
TARIFF ILLS
Republican A. P. teased Wire
WASHINGTON. Sept. 17. Division
of the world into economic strataa sep
arated by tariff wans and classified
as allies of the British empire, friendly
neutrals, unfriendly neutrals, and en
emy countries is urged by the London
Chamber of Commerce.
To clear the ground for this world
reconstruction the chamber concludes
in a special report a ctpy of which has
Just been received-here, that abroga
tion of all "most favored nations"
treaties, including that with the United
States is inevitable.
Free trade would be abandoned and
a series of graded tariffs proposed in
line with the present war groupings of
the nations. All imports would be
ttna articles solely used as raw material
inuuBiriea. nmnuiaciureu imiuaiuiis
and raw foodstuffs. Ail parts of the
! "ruisn empire ana us aines wouia pay
m?mmum du,e- . f"endly
which al ow the I mted Kingdom most
vTed treatment would pay tw.ee as
niui.il, I'uict i.vu ii am smug iireiei
ences to other powers and including
neutrals which might be swung into
the Teutonic commercial system, would
jay a still greater tax: and all "enemy"
countries would pay the maximum du -
ties, running up as high as thirty per
cent.
Rouffhlv It Is estimated in the renor-t
INTO OPEN ARE
British infantry have, been in both the
villages of Les Boeufs and Guende
court beyond Flers, which was taken
rrinay, and the British line is now!
close to these villages.
Talking with officers of corps en-
aged in the fighting of the last three
days, they estimated the loss from two
to one to five to one of the Germans,
as against those of the British. In one
sector the ratio was estimated at as
high as eight to one. The superior
volume of the British shell fire, now
that the Germans are forced into the
open, has a telling effect.
Joint Commission Making
Progress Toward Program
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
'KW LONDON, Conn., Sept.-17.
Both American and Mexican members
of the Joint commission studying in
ternational eiuestions growing out of
Mexico's revolution, were confident to
night that material progress towards
a mutual understanding would be made
this weeki but art early agreement Upon
a program for the maintenance of or
der along the border was considered
Improbable.
An erfort probably will lie made by
the Americans when the sessions re
sume tomorrow to confine the Imme
diate discussions to subjects related to
Mexico's internal affairs. To obtain
advice on this subject and others
liPJ.
E
PEOPLE SLEEP.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire '
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Mex.. Sept. 18.
(Delayed by cut wires) Villa's own
troops executed a surprise attack on
Chihuahua in the dark of this morn
ing, which although successfully initi
ated, ended in a complete victory for
the de facto government forcea under
General Jacinto Trevino. who received
a flesh wound in the left forearm un
der the fire.
At 3:30 o'clock during a heavy rain
fall, and while the people were hard
asleep after the festivities of two
nights In honor of the Mexican In
dependence day, the Villistas entered
the town in two columns. One made
straight for the penitentiary, where
Jose lnes Salazar, the amnestied rebel
on trial for plots against the govern
ment, and other political prisoners
were released. The other rushed for
the government buildings and the fed
eral palace, driving out the small Car
ranzista guard.
General Trevino, rushing his troops
to vantage points, covered the govern
ment buildings with rifles and machine
guns. He then took personal. command
of the artillery at Santa Rosa, and by
a few well directed shots made the
buddings ' untenable. The Villistas.
caught under the double fire, fled out
of the city to the northwest, teaving
more than a hundred dead behind.
The fleeing Villistas at Nombre de
Dios ran into the forces of General
Matias Ramos, which General Trevino
had placed there to cut off the retreat.
Ramos continued the pursuit, with
heavy loss to the bandits.
Although in command of the attack.
Villa did not enter the city with hi
troops.
Tne streets around the government
buildings are strewn with dead men
and horses, while wounded Villistas
contnue to be brought in,
A large number of former adherents
of Villa and Orozco are among thej
dead. Marcelo Caraveo, once a gen
eral under Orozco, waa taken prisoner,
which proves the complicity of other
factions with Villa.
General Trevino received his wound.
which is not serious, while directing the
fire of The field guns. He remained
with his men, however, throughout the
fight. It is reported that not a single
government soldier deserted his post
during the fight.
The battle lasted six hours, ending
at 9:30 o'clock in the morning.
Saya Six Hundred Killed
MEXICO CITY', Sept. 17. General
Obregon, minister of war, announces
that a thousand followers of Francisco
Villa, who attacked Chihuahua Friday
night,, were routed early Saturday
morning with a loss of six hundred men
I uiea ana many captured. After the
uiiw irevino s troops partici-
Pated in the Independence Day parade
Saturday morning. During the fighting
1 yeneral Trevmo was slightly wounded
! tne snouiaer.
j Aided by some of the townspeople,
1 the Villa forcea attacked at eleven
Normal conditions prevailed at Chi
huahua Sunday. The details of the de
feat of the Villa forces aroused en
thusiasm here.
U. S. Force Takes Prisoners
EL PASO, Sept. 17. From an of
ficial dispatch receiver! by Generel
Gonr-ales In Juarez today, there were
15:1 Villistas killed in the attack yes
t in Chihuahua and 87 captured,
who v ere immediately executed as
' andit
.V'rsy motor truck drivers arriving
: t ; ie border today say that an
Ame 1 an cavalry squadron operating
iiftere miles south of Namiquipa sur-
nu-( ana captured a banl of six-
teen Villistas l-.t Mr,nHn .rt.-
One of the prisoners, according to tha
report, revealed the hiding place of a
quantity of arms and ammunition,
Prisoners and munitions are said to
have been brought to Colonia Dublitn
in motor trucks.
This report follows one current here
j a few davs ago to the effect that
, General Pershing, on information that
' (Continued on Tag Seven)
touching upon the status of Americans
in Mexico, the American commission
ers have requested the presence of
Counsellor Polk of the state depart
ment. Considering Only Withdrawal
MEXICO CITY, Sept. 17. Reiterated
assurances are being printed in the
local newspapers that the withdrawal
from Mexico of the United States
forces under General Pershing is the
only question under consideration at
the present by Mexican delegates at
the conference in New T,ondon Cnnn
Reports that the railroad situation and
a loan are being considered are very
I stropgly denied here.
ill I N H
