THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 157.
UAHKK. VERMONT, MONDAY, SKPTKMHKK 18. 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
DENIECOURT
READY TO FALL
OVER t,000 AT FUNERAL.
Remarkable Tribute Paid to James E.
Burke, Late, of West Rutland.
Rutland, Sept, H. ()it person,
one of the largest funeral asM-nililngr
ever gathered in St. Bridget' atholic
fliuri'h lit West Rutland, ye.terdsy aft
ernoon at 2 oVIurk imi1 trilmti to the
memory of .lame K. Burke, who died in
that town last TlHirixlny afternoon fal
lowing a long lllnt'K with diabetes. Rev.
.1. .1. Boyle wa in charge of the aerv
ice at the church mid at the grave in the
Main treet eeinetrrv.
The state officer of the Ancient Order
of Hi hern inn and the member of the
Rutland, Writ Rutland, Proctor Mild
I'oiiltney lt iiimiH attended in a body,
over 2"0 being j.r- iit .
I hire was h pro'iooon of floral Inn
lite including wreath from the agent
of tlie .New York Life Insurance e'mipauy
of thin state, the local m ml -fate chapter
of the Ancient Order of lldwrni.ins. the
Boulder society of the l"nierity of Ver
mont, the selectmen, the Spierinkum
eliih and from personal friMl of Mr.
Burke.
The honorary licarcrs wore John .1.
Thompson of St. Albans. T. K. Conklin
of this citv. Dr. ('. B. I'or. George C
A new thrust l.y the French south of Robinson of Went Rutland Bnd .Mm j
the river Soinine in northern France, H. Pugan of thin cit v. The licarers wer.i
1' K. MiH ornii. k. Roger Dwyer. Ir. 1.
If. Guiltinan of West Rutland. Pr. J. L.
French Have Completely En
circled the Town in the
Last 21 Hours
TOOK 1,200 PRISONERS
DURING LAST NIGHT
They Also Successfully Re
sisted Heavy German
Counter-Attacks
TRAINS STONED
FROM. ROOFS
Several Passengers on New
York Elevated Trains
Were Injured
POLICEMAN HURT
DISPERSING CROWD
Normal Service Exists on
the Subway and Ele
vated Lines
where the important railway of (.'haul
lies is the objective, resulted in the com
jdete encircling of enieemrt, according
to the French official statement.
The British are keeping up their for
ward push north of the honime, scoring
their advances, however, at isolated
points, apparently in operations to
straighten out their line and to secure
hold on captured ground. London to
day report an appreciable advance on
the left flank where the British line ha
been driven further toward Le Sar along
the Po.ieres-Bapaume road north of Alar
fiiipuich and east of Coiircellctte.
On the Macedonian front the entente
attack in the Struma valley, northeast
nf Saloniki, was repulsed by Bulgarians,
the Solia war oflice announces, the coun
ter attack forcing the entente troop
back to the wet bank of the river.
The attempt by the Turks lo make
an attack in the region of the village of
Adisn on the Caucacinn front were frus
trated by the Russian lire, according to
the Petrograd announcement. The de
feat, of the Turk in a minor engage
ment on Sanai peninsula, fio miles east
of Suez canal, is reported officially in
IxMidon.
Paris, Sept. IS. The Germans lost
heavily in several counter attacks north
mid south of the Sctniiic last night, the
war oflice announced to-day. The French
maintained the ground recently won and
made further progress near Clery and
Herny and on the eastern edge ol Danie
court. The French took 1,200 prisoners
ti ml ten machine-guns the statement
Kays. The town of Daniocourt is now
completely encircled by the French.
1'risoners report great losses have been
unstained by some German formations.
The statement says that two battalions
were almost annihilated by French ar-tillerv.
Welsh of IWtor, Dr. 1'. If. Alahoney of
I'oiiltney and Florence A. McCarthy of
this city.
m Leo J. O'Rouke presided at the organ,
while Mis Margaret Davine sang the
"Stahat Mater" and Leo O'Rouke ren
dered the I)e Profoundi as the bod? was
leaving the chitrch.
MADE A MILLION
DURING A YEAR
New York, Scot. IS.-Repeated attack
twin rool tops were mailt on passing ele
vated trains during the early hours to
day by strike sympathizer armed with
stones and bottles. The missiles crashed
through the tar windows and several pas
sengers were injured. In the Bronx a
policeman was iiurt while dispersing a
crowd throwing bricks.
Normal service on the subway and ele
vated lines Was being operated to-day,
according to the police reports.
BOATMEN TO STRIKE.
Alleged Blackmailing Gang in Chicago
Uncovered Following Dispute Over
Division of the Spoils.
Chicago, Sept. IS. A confession has
been made by two members of the al
leged syndicate of blackmailers, eight of
whom are under arrest here, that the
operations of the swindlers netted them
$1100.000 during the past year, federal
oflicials announced to-day. The confes
sions, it is said, disclosed that the al
leged band numbers l!0 person, one-third
of w hom are women.
A dispute over the division of the
spoils, it is said, led to the confessions.
The arrest of a score or more of the
members of the syndicate is expected in
a week.
THIEPVAL IMPERILLED.
British Captured Front of a Mile in
Length.
London, Sept. 18. German positions
exceeding four miles in length were cap
tured Saturday night and Sunday by the
British and French armies in the con
tinuation of their offensive north and
honth of the Somme river in France. In
addition, quantities of war material and
a large number of prisoners fell into the
hands of the entente allies 700 prison
ers being taken by the French alone.
Heavy counter attacks against the Brit
ish yesterday were repulsed with large
losses to the Germans.
Xear Thiepval the British took a for
tilied position over a front of a mile
known as "the Danuge trench"; near
Coureelette. An advance of about 1000
yards was made and finally the strong
iy defended position at. the Mouquet farm
over which there had been numerous hard
ought battles for several weeks fell into
Iheir hands.
To the south of the river the French
pushed back the Germans and occupied
the remainder ot the towns of Verman
riovillers and Berny still in their hands
and also captured all the ground between
v ermandovillers and Demecourt and be
tween Denieeourt and Berny, the gain be
ing over a front running northeast two
miles and thence east another mile.
The advance of the British apparent
ly straightens out the salient that had
projected into their lines between Thiep
val and Cotircelette and brings their
front here to within a scant mile of
Crandeourt and the Albert-Bapaume riv
er. Brandcourt is now being bombarded
by the British. The success of the
French seemingly obliterates another of
the many saw-tooth salients which dot
the entire front of the Somme and is
another movement of the right flank of
the entente toward the pocketing of Pcr-nnne.
FORMER MAYOR OF NEW YORK.
Seth Low Died After Several Months'
Illness.
Xew York, Sept. 18. Peth Low, for
mer mayor of Xew York, twice mayor
of Brooklvn. and one time president of
Columbia university, died late yesterday
at his country home. Broad Brook farm.
Belford Hills, X. Y., at the age of (ifi
years. He had been ill several months
of a complication of diseases. A change
for the worse was announced Saturday
night, and it was then said the patient
probably could not recover.
Mr. Low s most recent activities were
exerted in an effort to find a solution of
the differences between the railroad
brotherhoods and the railroads. He had
long been consulted bv heads of the
brotherhoods.
But Movement Said to Have No Connec
tion with Carmen's Strike.
Xew York, Sept. lfi.The Tide Boat
men's union, with a membership, it is
paid, of 3.000, last night voted to go on
strike. Xo date was set for the men to
quit work, this being left, it was an
nounced, until after a conference between
delegates nf the union and the executive
board of the longshoremen's union to
night. The strike, it was asserted, will be in
no way a sympathetic one with the car
men who quit their places on Sept. 0, but
will result from a demand for better
working conditions and increased pay.
Although the men claim to handle all the
coal received in the city at tide water.
the fact, they said, that the coal supply
of the local transit companies may lie
endangered was onlv incidental.
BENNINGTON MAN
MURDERED NEAR
STREETCAR LINE
William Costello Had Two Bullet Holei
in His Head Authorities Have Not
Much t Work On in Tracing
HU Murderer.
Bennington, Sept 18. The body of
William (Wcllo, 32, who n employed
in the washing room of the HuMen Jon
rd Co., Woolen mjll, lies at the room
of s local, undertaker. There are two
bullet hole In the buck of the head. The
county and local officials with no appar
ent clue to guide them are endeavoring
to run down the young man' murderer.
Costello was een at the American
house lr room a), 9 o'ffock Saturday
night. Half an hour later he waa lying
dead hceide the Bennington and Xorth
Bennington trolley track nearly a half a
mile from the hotel. It waa midnight,
however, before the officer! were in
tormed of the tragedy. Drunken men
along the line of the trolley tracki are
no uncommon ijht Saturday night, and
it was not until the presence of a drunk
at the Soldiers' home crossinfihad been
reported bv evral crew that a ear
waa Htoimed for Investigation. When the
car reached thia village a passenger told
hief of Police Brazil that he thought
there waa a dc!d man near the track
and when the officer reached the scene
the passenger'a aupicion were con
firmed. State's Attorney Frank C. Archibald,
who live at MenchesTer, 25 mile n"rth
of here, arrived early Sunday morning
by automobile and took charge of th in
vestigation. Ir. B. H. Stone of Burling
ton, tlie state's pathologist, reached here
Sunday afternoon, to perform the autop
sy. iMie ot the bullets struck the aide
of Costello' neck and came through the
upper lip. The other penetrated back
of the head at the base of the brain,
probably causing instant death.
Xothing in the nature of a clue hag
developed during the day except the find
ing of five empty 32-calibre revolver
shells near a water trough about a hun
dred yards from the spot where the body
was discovered The night watchman at
the Bennington Scale company s plant
the building nearest the scene of the
tragedy, state that he heard five shots
in quick succession about 0:.i0 in the
evening.
A TORPEDO
SANK STEAMER
STRICKEN IN CEMETERY.
Mn
Barbara A. Ordiner Died a Few
Hour Afterward!.
Mr. Marluira A. Cordiner, wile of the
late Robert Cordiner, med away at the
home of her daughter, Mr, t lay ton
donn. 31 Hill utreet, Sunday afternoon
at &:M o clock, the end following an at
Tvplvirna with R Ampricnn? u,'k of h'n fai1'" ith m
ieiinia wnn o Americans wti .tril.klll uhi)(, -(WIp,nvini, frit.IUi,
Aboard Was Attacked
Without Warning
ALL AMERICANS
through Mope cemetery in the afternoon
u mi a ninntier of acquaintance! .Mr.
ordiner went to the cemeterv around
S:.10 o 'clink and a few moment after
her arrival she complained of feeling
seriounlv ill. While a boy was on hi
way to the city farm to telephone for a
phyicun. Dr. C. K. Hunt of Mmtnelier
WERE RESCUED '"riery ,-
m irmi inn n'iniMll. IJIIfr J ir. II imwni
McFarland arrived and Mr. Cordiner
waa taken to her home in Dr. Ilunt'a
automobile.
Althouuh ministrations broucht bv the
doctor seemed to relievs her, it wa evi
dent that her condition wa critical.
Throughout the latter part of the after
noon she continued to sink steadily un
til death came. Mr. Cordiner had been
subject to severe attack of heart di-
ease.
The deceased wa bom in Boddan, Pcot-
Some of Survivors Reached
New York Today
New York, Pent. IS. A torpedo sank
the British steamer Kelvinia carrying -1 land, Nov. "A, her maiden name he-
American, according to ti. U . Pillard of jng Barbara Alexander. Around thirtv
Richmond. Ya., one of the American years ago he was married to Hubert
who arrived to-iHy on the oinaraer (. ordiner, whose death occurred eight
Tiiscania. The despatches from Fngland year ago. Mrs. Cordiner is survived by
had left in doubt the question whether j,rr daughter. Mrs. Jones, and bv two
the Kelvinia wa torpedoed or strucK a rot here, William Alexander of Montreal
mine. l O., and Jame Alexander of Toronto,
According to Dillard. the helvtnia was )n)
torpedoed at 2 o'clock in the morning The funeral will he held at the Oiurch
without any warning. there were noi of the Cood Shenherd Wednesday after
loat enougn lor nom me crew in m noon at - o clock
American who were acting a hotler.
nd manv of the American put on lit
belt and inmned overboard. They wer FKOBABLY LAST TOUR.
rescued bv a trawler after floating about
MAN THROWN
UNDERHORSE
Robert Whitehill Seriously
Injured Near Railroad
Tr l-
WAGON CASHED
A ViORSE TURNED
Animal Was Frightened by
a Tram at Wcb-sterville
for 14 hour. Agent of the department Ban Board of Trade and Ladies Going
of -state met the Tuacanla to day to take
depocitions of the Kelvinia gurvivors
board.
BESIEGED BY ANTS
And Bombarded with Air Squadrons of
Bugs on Mexican Boundary.
to Northfield Sept. 20.
The Barre Board of Trade are to make
their sixth and probably last get-together
or better acquaintance automobile trip
oi tne 1H1U season to AorthBeld Wednes
day evening, Sept. 20. Barre agrees to
have ZrtO of her citizens, men and women,
at the supper table and Xorthfield ex
pecta to have a still larger number of
NEW VERMONT CORPORATION.
SERBIANS ADVANCE.
Lamoille County Country Club of Hyde
Park Has $1,500 Stoks.
Articles of association were filed to
day with the secretary of state by the
Lamoille County Country club, Inc., ot
Hvde Park. The corporation has capital
stock of $1,500 with the following sub
scribers: B. M. McFarland, H. A. Xoyes
and A. Ti. Simpson of Hyde Park, M. O.
Fish of Deland, Fla., and X. M. Sargent
of Morrisville.
TALK OF THE TOWN
On the Western End of the Macedonian
Front.
London. Sept. 18. Further advances
for the Serbians on the western end of
the Macedonian front are reported in a
dispatch.
ASQUITH'S SON KILLED.
tieut. Raymond Asquith Fell in Action
September 16.
L'-ndon, Sept. IS. Lieutenant Ray
mond Ayquith. son of Premier Asquith,
was killed in action September 16, it was
announced to-day.
Raymond Asquith was in his 3Sth year
and was the eldest son of Premier As
quith. Two brothers. Lieut. Arthur As
quith of the Royal Xavy reserves, and
and Lieut. Herbert Asquith, were wound
ed in action in the Dardanelles in June,
IfM.V. Raymond Asquith had been a lieu
tenant of the Grenadier Guards since
1915.
TURKS HOLD BRITISH.
in
Latter Tned to Start an Offensive
Mesopotamia.
Contantinople, via London. Sept. IS.
Another attempt by the British forces in
Mesopotamia to take the offensive is re
ported by tie war office, which ys t?it
the attacker cre dipered with heavy
?osea.
Miss Tylea Becklcy of South Ryegate
returned to her home this morning, after
visiting friends in the city over the week
end. William T. Maiden of Highland avenue
went to Montpelier seminary this morn
ing to assume his duties as a member of
the teaching staff.
Miss Hattie Davis, who has been visit
ing relatives on South Main street dur
ing the past week, left this noon for her
home in Burlington.
The Misses Irene and Frieda Bombard
returned to their home on Central street
yesterday after visiting friends in Xew
York Citv and vicinity during the past
two months.
Mrs. Augusto Trovasoli of Milford, X.
H., is visiting in the city, having been
summoned here by the illness and death
of her father, Fortunato Puricelli of
Prospect street.
Joseph Kicciarelli, who has been visit
ing at the home of his sister, Mrs. John
Comi of Quiney, Mass., during the past
week, returned to his home on Berlin
street last night.
Charles L. Brown, an instructor in
Spaulding high school, who has been
passing a vacation of a month in West
Virginia since completing his duties as
supervisor of Barre's public playgrounds, j
returned to the city yesterday.
George E. I.eitiiner of Washinetnn
street, who has been parsing a vacation
of a few weeks in Chicago, 111., has re
turned to the rity and resumed his duties
in the office of Barclay Bros.
Ralph pashner. who has been working
in the factories at Hartford. Conn., during
the past few months, returned to Barre
Saturday night and will visit at the
home of his parents, Mr. and Mrs. .1. J.
Dashner.
Don't fail to attend the baking demon
stration Tuesday. Wednesday and Thurs
dav of this week at K. A. Prindle's store
and see the latest and most up-to-date
coal and gss combination ranire on the
market, tlx" celebrated double Andes.
Free souvenir for the ladies. adv.
Mrs. S. M. (handler and daughter. Har-
riet. who have been visiting the Mie i
innie Fowell and Mvrtie Walker of
Portland. Me during the past two weeks.
returned to their home on South Main
street Saturday.
Leon Hutehin is moving bis bnnehold
goods from the Stkkney block on Church
street to Marshfield. where he will work
in a lumber ramp during the remainder
of the fall and through the winter
aosths.
FIVE KILLED IN CRASH.
When Automobile Went Through Guard
Rail on Harlem Bridge.
Xew York, Sept. 1H Five persons were
killed, two probably fatally injured and
four others less seriously hurt yesterday
when an automobile in which they were
riding crashed through a guard rail on a
bridge across the Harlem river.
The dead are Mrs. Mary Xcvvman, Hy
man Hankie, Carl Spaneenburp. Thomas
Hair and Miss Lillian Wilson, all of Xew
York City-. Miss Mae Hart and Francis
Kane are not expected to live.
The live who Inst their lives were
hurled from the bridge to the roadway,
25 feet below, while the others were
crushed under the wreckage of the car.
According to the police, Hair, a chauf
feur, took the automobile from a garage
without permission of the owner and in
vited his friends for a drive in which
many places of amusement were visited
before the accident occurred.
ONE REGIMENT
TO RETURN HOME
ONE BODY RECOVERED.
For Each Regiment Sent to the Mexican
Boundary, Is Order to Gen.
Funston.
Washington, D. C, Sept. 18. C.en.
Funston was directed by the war depart
ment to-day to return one Xational
Guard regiment to its home station for
each new regiment of guards sent to the
border.
j
VERMONT TROOPS
GOING TO BORDER
Louis
in Lake
Potvin Was Drowned
Champlain.
Burlington, Sept. IS. The body of
Louis Potvin, who was drowned a week
ago kit Thursday, was found Saturday
floating in the water off the Stearns piur
near the old boom south of the draw
bridge, by Moses Parizo. Mr. Parizo and
Antoine Cota were rowing towards Mr.
Pariao's motorboat which is kept just
south of the pier when the body was dis
covered. After being reviewed by the
authorities it was removed to the under
taking establishment of F. J. Dwver and
was buried in Alt. Calvary cemetery
Saturday afternoon.
The body, which was badly bloated,
was discovered by Afr Tarizo floating on
top of the water over the rocks which
lie just neath the surface of the water
and which at one time formed a part of
the pier. The body had washed over the
rocks and was partially resting upon
them.
Air. Parizo immediately notified Chief
of Police Russell, who notified Health
Officer F. .T. F.'nnis, both going to the lake
front. The body was towed to the shore
and taken from t.he water. The features
were so badly distorted by bloat that
identification was made bv the clothes
the man wore. Afr. Potvin, who was 3!)
years of age. is survived bv his father
and three brothers.
The body of F'rancis. who when last
seen was with Potvin leaving Juniper is
land for a fishing trip, has not yet been
found. It is supposed the two men were
drowned at the same time. They left
Juniper island Thursday morning, Sept.
,1. for a fishing trip. Friday morning of
the same week the skiff belonging to
Captain Terry of Juniper island, which
they were using, was found by another
James Francis of this city, floating in
the breakwaters on the north shore. In it
were a life preserver and a bottle con
taining some whiskey.
Expect to Leave Fort Ethan Allen Tues
dayMany Norwich Cadets Have
Been Mustered Out of the
Federal Service.
Burlington, Sept. 18 One hundred and
seventy recruits and three officers of the
First regiment of infantry, Vermont Xa
tional Guard, will entrain at noon to
morrow at Forth Ethan Allen, for Ea
gle Pass, Tex., where they will join the
Vermont troops already at the station.
This detachment will be commanded by
Charles B. S. Hyland of Rutland, Cap
tain E. W. Gibson of Brattleboro, com
manding I company, and Lieutenant H.
P. Sheldon of Fair Haven, battalion ad
jutant. The troops ill proceed by the
same route as that previously followed,
which was over the Central Vermont
tracks to Greenfield, Afass., via the West
Shore lines to Buffalo, X. Y, via the
Xiekel Plate to Chicago, and from Chi
cago via the Santa Fe to Eagle Pass,
The officers and some of the men have
heen stationed at Camp Gates and F'ort
Lthan Allen since the middle pf June. A
few weeks ago they started for Eagle
Pass, but were turned back at Brattle
boro. The machine gun company of -16 men
were paid in full and discharged from
the federal service, Saturday atternoon.
The supply and headquarters companies,
were mustered out this morning. The
officers serving with these organizations
will not be mustered out, but will be as
signed to other companies. About one-
half of the men in the machine gun, sup
ply and headquarters conv.nies are stu
dents at Xorwii-h university. Xo further
word has been received as to when the
members of C company will arrive at
Fort Ethan Allen.
Eaele Pass. Tex.. Sept. 13, 1018.
Editor." Times: I write you this time men and women from Xorthfield and the
to tell vou of our experiences while on surrounding towns to it at the supper
cuard at the international railroad bridge, taoie witn her guest from Jtarre, and
We left camp at 5:3(1 o'clock Tuesday at least 2,500 people at tlie band concert,
night, arriving at the bridge at ri: i., witnessing the throwing on the screen by
about three mile from camp. This the Barre Board of Trade of about 150
bridec crosses the Rio Grande about one views showing Barre and her industry
mile below the foot bridge. Each cor- Supper will be served at Armory hall at
poral was assigned with a squad of men 7 o'clock. Carroll's orchestra of Barre
to an outiost along the rivr, also the will furnish music during the supper
railroad. Well, as luck would have it, I hour and for dancing in Armory hall from
got the bridge. I was on from 6 that 10 to 12 o'clock. The Barre band will
night until (i next morning. I posted give an open-air concert from 8:30 to 10
three guards upon the bridge, one 20 tcet o clock.
from our side of the line, which is Barre and Xorthfield join in extending
marked by a white post; the other two an invitation to every person in Wash
were just' on our end of the bridge. I ington county and elsewhere to attend
also visited the other outposts once every this get-together meeting at Xorthfield
hour. There was about two miles to Purchase your supper tickets at once, as
walk around each post. the sale of tickets is limited. First come.
One post I visited upon the river, the first served. Automobiles will start from
bovs were upon their leet all night, as city square at 6 o clock.
sleep was impossible, the red and black
tnl, wAr 11uL' n,t tliA icpre fflk-
i . ..ra'hinir oaeh nOinr'a hack 20 ATE CLAMS,
a alnimi.ift anim n(T nn BnnOior On
Barre bov was running around trying to And Enjoyed Hospitality of R. C. Bowers
shake the ants off his clothes, and when Saturday Atternoon
tie wok on nis puines nc nau a iuu- Bam. and Montpeli,r granite mantlfac.
neugea jamny o. anis, wincu nan m n, U1Ireri aml fhos(, of thelr emp0j.M whO
P mcr o..c IU. in.- ...K"t. . are pngKg-d as pothers, boxers and bed-
F..lB u, .. w..--.,,,-. setters were royally entertained at Ri
The night waa perfect, the moon was ,RV c owers' annual clambake Satur
full and the river looked verv beautiful.
One could see the Mexican sentries w alk-
One could hear them
day afternoon. The yearly outing was
staged at Fountain park, near the Alar-
ing their posts, une couiu near tnem j f w, th bi rwerg tent wa.
iinnei.-. ii.e uiwumm """ n tched ear er n the dav. There was a
that I watched over the river with a Lrfpit. n( ,,. nrpn i... . PTnprf
1 TM u ti..J. X'..-. l..l..l 7 t '
V"7'".: """ -"K'"" caterer and all of the side dishes were
very orieniai in me moonugni,.
Robert Whitehill, an elderly man re.
siding in West Topsham, sustained e-
rious injuries in an accident on the Burr
A, Chelnea railroad crossing near the K.
H. Xerney store in Websterville Satur
day, when he wa kicked by a horse
which he was driving from hw home to
Williamstown. Dr. K. II. Bailey of Gran
iteville was called and his examination
disclosed two rib fractures and an in
complete fracture of the sternum, com
monly known as the breast bone. In the
shuffle occasioned by the overturning of
the wagon, the man also lost a tooth.
Whitcomb's motor amhulance took the
man to Wet Topsham after the doctor
had done with him. Yctderday it wa
reported that Air. Whitehill was restinir
comfortahly, although his condition wa
considered quite serious. He will prob
ably recover.
The accident occurred late in the after
noon. Apparently Afr. Whitehill. who is
around 70 years old, did not note the ap
proach of a locomotive and short string
of cars until he reached the crossing. At
that point he realized the gravity of his
predicament and started to turn the car
riage about. In reining his horse, h
cramped the wagon too much and the
animal, probably frightened by the chui;-
ging of the locomotive, began to be frac
tious. Bystanders on the steps of the
Xerney store say that the horse seemed
to be trying to bolt from the carriace
when the vehicle overturned. Mr. White
hill was under the horse's heels and was
struck once in the breast and again
glancing blow in the face by the animal's
hoofe. People rushed to his assistance
and the horse was quieted while men
were releasing the driver from his peril
ous position.
A hurry call was sent in for a physi
cian and before the doctor arrived a
number of first aid remedies had been
applied to the man's injuries. As soon
as arrangements could be made, an am
bulance was engaged and the patient win
hurried to his home. Dr. Bailey visited
the patient yesterday and was eneour-
ged by his condition.
The engineer in the locomotive eab was
on the lookout at the crossing and ap
plied his brakes when he saw the team.
It is improbable tnat a collision would
have occurred, as the locomotire was go
ing slowly as it approached the crossing.
The carriage used by Air. Whitehill was
partially demolished.
SCHOOLS OPEN T0-M0RR0W.
The next morning I got six hours'
sleep. That afternoon I went on post at
a railroad man's house. That afternoon
Lieut. Lepage and Lieut. Paine had a
con versa tim with two Mexican soldiers,
one being a Lieut. Rodique of the Alex-
there in abundance. Girls who are em
ployed in the offices of the several firms
represented, including Afr. Bowers' Alont
pelier office, acted capably as waitresses.
More than 200 people, all told, were un
der the canvas top when the clam bake
was well under way. Various forms of
lean regiment stauoneo at r leorts divmion were provi(le(1 and after din-
gras. ue seemea a mue airaia wnen t f Mr Bowers re0eived a
SKen 10 men corner iu sn i.ieir nicmres vr:.r ;no Bnj ,.,,1, f tohiuvn
was the matter until he said he was not
armed, so I stepped back and laid down
my gun. Then he came forward into the
line, and we had a picture taken. I was
shaking hands with the Alexican lieu
tenant. He seemed to be a bright fellow
TALK OF THE TOWN
A daughter weighing eight pounds was
born to Air. and Mrs. Henry Towers of
and willing to lie friendly and to carry 4 Grant avenue, last evening.
on conversation, but this was cut short. If the writer of a typewritten commu-
as their colonel whistled them back. The nication, received in this office Saturday
lieutenant was dressed in a uniform much night, desires to have the letter published
the same as our officers cotton olive in The Times he must reveal his identity
drab coat and khaki pants, with large to this oflice, not, however, for pubhea-
VERM0NTERS ORDERED HOME.
bras buttons.
We had to have our food sent from
camp. It was amusing to see the boys
with the plate in one hand and cup, fork,
knife and spoon m the othei, running all
around the guard quarters swatting the
files and bugs, which were in a cloud all
about us. We returned to camp at 0
o'clock Wednesday night, glad to get
back to bed, but all in good spirits. All
for now.
Sincerely vours,
A. G. Edward, Co. H, 1st Vt. Inf.
P. S. To-morrow morning. Thursday,
Sept. 14, we start for a three-day hike, to
return Saturday, the 18th. Will write an
account of same next time.
Tennessee Troops Said to Have Been
Sent to Eagle Pass to Relieve Them.
HEAR ARGUMENTS TO-DAY
In Nichols vs. Emerson Case in County
Court.
When county court convened this aft
ernoon at i o'clock after the week-end
recess arguments were commenced in the
case of Frank H. Xiohols vs. G. AL Fmer
son in which the plaintiff seek to recov
er S.!. Judge Kh-h limited each attorney
to 30 minutes and it is probable that a
jury will 1 drawn for the next caw
ready for trial sometime this afternoon.
The mse of Abmtpelier Plumbing 4
Heating Co. vs. I?. I.. Watson was en
tered to day with the county clerk, the
plaintiff seeking to rerowr which
sum i claimed for work dune for the defendant.
San Antonio, Tex.. Sept. 18. In pur
suance of an announcement by the war
department that Xational Guard troops
recently ordered to the border are to re
lieve troops now stationed here in order
that the entire guard may have field
training. Gen. Funston yesterday an
nounced new stations for the Tennessee
troop.
Tlie 1st Tennessee infantry goes to
Eagle Pass, relieving the 1ft Vermont,
ordered home. The 2d Tennessee goes to
AIcAUen, relieving the 2d Xew York.
SUPPOSED BREMEN
WAS AMERICAN SHIP
WOMAN WAS. RAIDED.
Later She Was Arrested for Alleged H
legal Sale.
In the noon hour to-day a raiding
party from police headquarters converged
at the corner of Quarry ami South Afain
streets and there visited the house occu
pied by Airs. Sclina Albano. A barrel
partly full of bottled beer was seized
and Mrs. Albano waa arrested on a
tion.
Atty. J. Ward Carver has been advised
of a special meeting of the Republican
state committee, which is to be held in
Burlington Wednesday. Plans for pro
mulgating a platform will be discussed.
Bruno Ciardi, who was arrested by Of
ficer John W. Dineen on a complaint
made to Grand Juror William Wishart.
pleaded guilty to a breach of the peace
charge when arraigned before Magistrate
H. W. Scott in city court this morning,
the respondent paying a fine of $.1 and
costs aggregating ?0.Oo. liardis arrest
harked back to the day of the primary
election, when a young fellow named Al
bert Xelson, was driving a team for those
who voted. According to the complaint,
Ciardi struck the Xelson boy when he
refused to give un his place near the
curbing in front of the Atiles block.
Mrs. Anna Robertson of upper Wash
ington street is in receipt of a letter
Both Public Schools and Goddard to Be
gin School Year.
Two weeks of grace allowed by the
state board of health as a precautionary
measure against infantile paralysis will
end to-night, and to-morrow school chil
dren Vill be back in the educational
trenches lor the mio-lUli school year.
At the office of the superintendent ab
Spaulding school this morning it was
stated that all of the 70 or more teachers
are in the city. In the chapel at the high
school this evening at fi:30 o'clock tho
first teachers' meeting of the year will
be held. To each teacher cards will ba
assigned with the names of pupils who
are to be enrolled in each school room.
The graded schools open at 0 o'clock and
the high school students must be in their
places at 8:10. Teachers engaged in tha
early summer are all retained and the
staff remains practically as published in
June. It is expected that the high school
enrollment will be quite as large as last
year.
Goddard seminary, restrained from
opening a fortnight ago by the same rule
that applied to public school, will throw
open its doors to-morrow morning at tho
usual opening hour. Prin. O. K. Hollister
is quoted as saying that all of the teach
ers engaged for the school year will b"
present to-morrow and by afternoon it is
thought that the classes will have been
arranged for the term. An enrollment
approximating 2n0, a high water mark in
the history of the school, was indicated,
by the registrations to-day.
CAME HERE FROM ITALY.
Fortunato Puricelli Joined His Children
in Barre m 1912.
I'ortunato Puricelli died at his horns
from her brother-in-law. John Allen ofj" upper rrospeel street this morning
Aberdeen. Scotland, telling of the death at 4:.(o o , lock, uie end following a two
of his n. John Allen, jr.. while fighting I months' illness of cancer. Air. Puricelli
in the trenches on the allies' front in j' survived by his wite. to whom he was
France. The letter goes on to confirm married in Italy in IS7S; by a daughter,
the rumor of two month ago of the j Mrs. Augusto Provasoli of Alilford. X.
de-fh of John Ogg. w ho wa reported I H. and by five sons. Angclo Puricelli
i , . - - f . i , . . It.,,.- !..,. ..!'; . n,.mlr f ,.,1
charge of selling linimr illegally Later "tilled at tne negmnmg oi me Dig drive, - - "'
:T..0Lk7VM IL Wf the ."l-jnthee
S.-ntt and bail wa fixed at $.V1, with " ,u '.'".r "' "f" " ""c 1 1""" -" . ' - - " " . . ;, -
on the alleged contraband good. I on a l .lays furiougn trom tne front j oroioer,. .,.,,...,....,...,,.,.. ....
Wim a ia-e in i.e. .i-ii irirr ( liir lime.'" in.... -. m,-., - v .
Stile's Atty. Raymond TraimT of
WT.it e River Junction w a visitor in
de citv jetter!av and to-day.
Xew Ijondon, Conn.. Sept. IS.
The submarine approaching Xew
londnn nd which was reported to
lie the German .undersea merchant
man Bremen was an American
raft of the I. type, which . re
turning frum maneuver, it eel-rq-ed
to-day with the return to the
piTt of tiie tug snppe!v sent
out to meet the underx-a liner.
The respondent did not know whether
he would be able to get bail and was
remanded to the police station to await
a bondsman. Grand Juror William Wish
arf issued the warrants for the raid and
arrest and Chief Sinclair was assisted in
the search by Officer John W. Dineen
and Constable George L. Morria.
the letter ws mailed from Aberdeen.
Three paid and two elected jail sen
tence among those confined in the keep
at pidice headquarter through the week
end. All were arraigned before Afagis
lina Puricelli, reside in the same Italian
village.
The deceased was born in Sammarate,
Ita'y, Alarch 23. 18.V.. and for man
years, until he came to Itarre in 1!13
trate IF. W . Scott on intoxication charges 'to join his children, pursued the ocenpa
thismorning. Edward J. Smith of Lvn- !tion of fanner in hi native village. Her?
donville, down on the records a? an ha- 'in Barre he was held in e'teera by many
bitual drunkard, went to jail for fi3 dav s 'members of the Italian colony and ws
Mr. and Mra. C. A. Adam returned to after dicloing on a Xorth Alain street . numbered a a member of the Italian
their home on First street yesterday polish store. William H. Gallagher of! Old Men's society.
after spending the past three weeks en- Newbury, pleading gudty to a second of-I Funeral ervie w ill be held in St.
ramped at Groton pond. fene. went to jsd instead of paving the j Monit-a' church Wednepjay afternoon
Air. and Mra. G. Lotti and daughters, j M5 fine and nts. Harry H. Mason, - at 2 "Mok, the pri-h prie-t. Rev. P.
Yeoli and Ele. returned to their home; car Alatson and Andrew Heaikl.n. all of (At. Mi Kerna officiating. Interment wHl
on lterlm street lt night after v iiting ' F'srre, .-kn ledgH firt offer- and l made m the tathd c cemeterv Oa
friends in vvaterbury over the week eat r h a."l the minimum fine and cols. Ii k,y lret.
