ft
r
Kj
FULE LEASED W
' WERE DISPATCHES
K
' :
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DALLY
- '
Cm.'
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR NO. 195
SALEM, OREGON, SAEffRTaY, SEPTEMBER 31916
HTWT? rpnrri rTvrrrx3 OH TBAIN8 JJTD KBWa
ivN-a 1"" xo HTAvna nn mwrm
Idtrif til fflwi f mmrarifir
GERMANS RraMK
Many Important Positions Taken byritish Troops In Last
Night's Fighting-Strong Position at Thiepval About to
Fall-Russo-Ruraanian Army Stops Retreat and Pre
pares for Battle-Germans fight Stubbornly and Their
Loss Is Appalling
By Ed L. Keen,
(United Press Staff Correspondent) '
London, Sept. 18. The most desperate Teutonic coun
ter attacks have, failed to stop the onward sweep of the
Anglo-French armies on both sides of the river Somme.
The German war office this afternoon admitted the
loss of Bernv, Deniecourt and positions between Barleux
and Vermandovillers in the new French drive south of
the river. The capture of Deniecourt has not yet been
announced from Paris though an official statement issued
at noon reported the village surrounded. The French
war office last night reported the capture of Berny and
.Vermandovillers. . ' "
. North of the Somme the British closed in on Thiepval
last night after repulsing German attacks, General Haig
reported, and captured enemy positions south of the town.
Aside from the allies' success on the Somme, the word
that the Russian and Rumania forces have halted their
retreat in southeastern Rumania and are now making a
stand against the Teutons was the most encouraging
news from the allied standpoint reaching London this
afternoon. The German war office announced that the
Ttusso-Rumanians have been reinforced and are now pre
paring to give battle to protect the important Constanza
railway line which guards Rumania's communications
via the Black sea.
A dispatch from the Rome
reported that the Italians have broken through the Aus
trian third line east of Monfalcone and are now within
less than thirteen miles of Trieste, chief goal of the
Italian armies.
Thiepval Seems Doomed.
London, Sept. IS. British troops be
Snn closing in upon Thiepval last nilit.
after capturing Mouqet 'farm and took
several German trenches south of the
village, General Haig reported this aft
ernoon. West of Mouqet farm, the Germans,
resisting desperately the advance of the
British pincers, entered a British trench
ly n heavy counter attack,' Imt were
later driven out.
Thiepval village position which tins
h-ld up the progress of the British left
wing since the Somme offensive be
gun July 1, was made most precarious
for the Germans by the loss of the well
fortified Mnnqet farm yesterday.
North of Mnrtinpuich, Haig 's 'men im
proved their positions Inst night and
onst of Courceletto a minor attack on
'ncmy trenches was successful. "The Ger
mans bombarded various parts of the
British line with great violence Inst
niiiht, as if in preparation for a counter
attack.
Forty thousand Germans have been
killed, wounded or captured since the
Anglo-French armies resumed the of
fensive on the Somins with buttering
blown that bent back the Teuton lines.
Fighting is Furious.
The fighting continued last niitht
iiortn ami
suutii or tne river with the
greatest fury. The Germans were still be poured back intu Europe at the end
clinging desperately to the village ofiof the war bv American tourists and
Jiomerourt, under heavy French fire. immigrants, who will return to their
nnd making counter attacks against 1 home countries to aid in the work of re
Berny an, I Vermandovillers. lost to the : hnbilitation.
French yesterday afternoon. I American curiosity to see famous bnt-
TSortJi of the river British artillery I tie fields and the desire of aliens to
checked one German counter attack aft-1 plnv a part in rebuilding the war torn
er nnother with storms of shrapnel and' eitips nf their cniintrviilon n-ili .n,l
Who remembers when our Presidents,
were rarely ever In Wahtn'tonf Theivulge the number of passages already
consumers are full o' grievances, but ' booked. These booking are made in
tnrr n or no strike.
bureau of the United Press
at the same timo opened n bombardment
on Urnnrticourt and Lesars, on the two
highways lending to Rapnume.
The allied successes have had a most
profound effect in Berlin, according to
the Hague dispatches toilnv. The tier
mans had been led to believe that the
Somme drive had been halted by the in
ability of the British capture of Flora
Courcclette line and to brenk through
the German defenses around Thiepval.
The German papers are now prepuring
the public for the early evacuation of
both Peroune and Combles, and pointing
(Continued on Page Five.)
AMERICANS
TO EUROPE
ENDS SAY
New York, Sept. IS. Millions of dul-
liir; puuii-u miu mis country ny warring
Knronenn nnwers fnr immitimw nr t
money flooding back to Europe, accord-;
iug to indications at steninshio offices
here today.
Taking as an estimate, ns viewed by
steamship officials, that 100.000 Amer
icans will visit Europe during the first
year after the war, anil that they will
spend an average of $1,000 each, $100,
OtMi.OOO will be returned to the Euro
pean countries within 12 months after
peace is restored.
Europe, will of course, De a greater
place than ever before, after the war,
steamship men point out, and consider
ing the wealthy Americans who will
vii.it the continent as well ns those of
more moderate means, the estimate of
1,000 each as the amount they will
spend, is regnrded as low.
t Many Apply for Passage.
Inquiries and applications for passage
on the first ships to sail from the I' til
ted Stntos after the war are rolling into
the booking offices by hundreds, and
causing steamship companies to make
every preparation to handle the biggest
trans-ocean traffic in history after the
war.
But two companies the North Ger-mnn-Lloyd
and the Hamburg-American
line are actually accepting tentative
bookings, in the fact of uncertainty at
tn the terminntinn nt thi wnp Hnmhtirir.
American line officials refused to di-
the order of receipt and are subject to
CHANGES TO BE MADE
Republican Leaders Hold
ConferenceStone at
Headquarters
Chicago, Sept. IS. Radical changes
in speaking plans for the western re
publican presidential campaign were ex
pected as a result of the conference of
the national advisory committee of the
republican party here today.
Alvi T. Hert, western manager, was
back after a conference with eastern
political leaders and Frank H. Hitch
cock reported on his personal examina
tion of the situation in Illinois.
Among those present were Theodore
E. Burton, Ohio; James Wilson, former
secretary of agriculture, Iowa; J. H.
Hitchcock, New York; Victor Bosewat
er, Nebraska; James R. Garfield, Ohio;
Nicholas Murray Butler, New York;
James N. Hemeuway, Indiana, and Wil
liam R. Willcox, national chairman, is
expected tonight.
Senator William Joel Stone, of Miss
ouri, arrived at democratic western
headquarters today as a member of the
senatorial campaign committee. He will
spend most of the time here until elec
tion. Two special ears are to carry demo
cratic women to the Springfield state
fair Thursday, it was announced at cam
paign headquarters today.
General Mills Passes
Very Suddenly Today
V
Washington, Sept. IS. Major Gen
eral Albert L. Mills, chief of the di
vision of militia affairs, U. 8. A., died
at his home here today of pneumonia.
He had been ill only twelve hours.
General Mills was chilled while mo
toring yesterday afternoon and was
stricken during the night. His wife
and daughter, Mrs. Laurson, wife of
Lieutenant E. L. Laurson of the Etev
enth cavalry, were with bim w'.ien ho
died.
General Mills was only recently pro
moted to the rank of major general.
For two years he was president of the
army war college.
He was awarded the congresional
medal of honor July 28, 1902, "for dis
tinguished gallantry in action" near
Santiago, Culm, July 1, 1898, in en
couraging near him by his bravery and
coolness after being shot through the
head and entirely without sight."
In addition to a wife and daughter,
General Mills leaves a son, Lieuten
ant Chester Mills, Ninth I,'. S. cavalry,
now stationed in the Philippines.
COLD WAVE HITS IOWA
lies Moines, Sept. '18. Seven Iowa
points today reported freezing temper
atures last night. Iowa City and
Keosauqun registered 28, the coldest
reported in the Unitetd Slates'. Light
to heavy frosts occurred Sundny night
over central nnd eastern Iowa. Warm
er weather is predicted for tomorrow.
WILL RUSH
WHEN WAR
OFFICIALS
cancellation,. The North German Lloyd
has 107 passengers booked for the first
vessel to sail after tho close of hostili
ties. The International Mercantile Marine,
which controls the American line, the
Atlantic Transport, the White Star and
the Red Stnr lines, is making prepara
tions for record traffic both east and
west bound, according to J, B. Lindsay,
booking airent. 1'ncertnintv ns tn rates
however, and dates of sailings, pre
vents maintenance ot a
passenger list.
1 runs-ocean passenger and freight
rates may take a jump after the war,
Lindsay says, because of conditions
which will increase the cost of opera
tion. Expect Oreat Bush.
" However, this is a matter of specu
lation,' said Lindsay, "and it 'is too
early to give it great consideration."
The International Mercantile Marine
now has four ships under construction
nnd tentative plans are ready for the
construction of several more to handle
the anticipated rush of traffic from
America to Europe, and the flood of Eu
ropean goods which will be thrust upon
the American market.
Cuuard and Anchor line officials said
they were prepared to handle heavy
traffic nnd that their vessels were be
ing kept in shape that they may be put
in service immediately an armistice or
peace is declared.
Inquiries coming to the office of C.
B. Stock of the Cunnrd line, indicate
that many of those desiring to return
to Europe immediately after the close
of tho war ore foreigners who have
come to America, become wealthy and
now want to go to their tiome countries
and aid in the work of rehabilitation.
Applications for first class passage have
been received in several instances from
aliens who come to this country in the
'steerage,
VILLISTAS LOSE
MANY
IN RAID
CHIHUAHUA CITY
Claim Made That Bandits
Lost 200 Killed In
- the Attack
COMMANDER TRf VINO
SHOT BY ONE OF HIS MEN
;Qne Third of Garrison Joins
Villa Attack Arouses
Enthusiasm
a
EIOHTT-SVEN SHOT
El Paso, Toxns, Sept. 18.
Eighty-seven Villistas captured
by Carrangistas after the ban
dit attack on Chihuahua City
Saturday were lined up before
firing squads Sunday morning
and executed. Among the pris-,
oners was Colonel Mariano
Tames, who mutinied from
Juarez with 100 nieh and joined,
the Villistas. j
By Webb Miller.
(I'nited Press staff correspondent.)
El Paso, Texas, Sept. 18. All north
ern Mexico is in turmoil todny as re
ports of Villa's attack upon Chihuahua
City early Saturday spread throughout
the country. Four thousand de facto
troops from Monterey are being rushed
to Chihuahua City and other points,
while two columns of cavalry are pursu-1
lug the Hying ha mh IB toward Santa'
Clara canyon, acco.oing .to reports gi-r-
en out by General Gonzales, Carranza'
commander at Juarez. Despite reports
given out by Carranza officials that
Villa was badly defeated, the effect of
his attack following his threat to shout
"grito" iu the city of Chihuahua on in
dependence day was to rouse the enthus
iasm of the people. Iu Juarez troops are
patrolling every street in order to pre
vent an outbreak of pro-Villa feeling.
Three Carranza officers who deserted
when the bandit attack on Chihuahua
commenced and rode north to catch a
train ,are in El Paso early today. Ac
cording to their story, the Villistas at
tacked the town in two columns one
murching straight to the penitentiary
without a shot being fired upon them,
the other column driving the Carrnnzis
ta soldiers before them to the palace.
When it was seen that the penitentiary
was doomed to fall, Carrnnzn officers
ran through the corridors, shooting po
litical prisoners through the bars.
About 20 were killed iu that manner.
Then the doors wero broken down by
the Villistas who rushed iu nnd rescued
General Salaznr.
General Trevlno Shot.
General Trevino, Carranzistn com
mander, was shot by one of his own
men, these officers declnre and about
one-third of the garrison mutinied and
went over to the bandit leader.
The Villistas lost about 200 men, ac
cording to best estimutes while the Car
rnnzista losses were not announced but
were said to bo very heavy.
As the Villistas left the prison and
started to cut their way through the
government troops, hand to hand fight
ing took place in the streets. The streets
wero swept by shell fire, killing de fac
to soldiers nnd bandits alike. For an
hour after Villa hud evacuated it, can
non fire was kept up on the paluce.
The Carranzistn did not immediately
pursue when the bandits finally rut
their wuy through the lines. Once out
side the city, the Villistas reformed and
marched away in good order across the
Rio Churisear, proceeding northwnrd to
ward Santa Clara canyon.
By military men here it is believed
Villa did not intcud to occupy Chihua
hua City but that his purpose was to
muke a demonstration for its effect up
on the American-Mexican mediation
conference. Villa's men started evacu
ating the prison before shell fire was
opened on them. The bandits suffered
their heaviest losses on the retreat as
the cannon of the garrison got the
range. At Mexico City it was announced
that six hundred Villistas had been kill
ed or enptured. This is about three
times the actual casualties.
Villista losses were 153 dead and 80
wounded, according to a message re
ceived by General Gonzales at Juarez.
Carranzista losses were not announced
but were said to be much heavier.
Villa Shows Carranza's Weakness
El Paso. Texas, Sept. 1. Military
officials here view Pancho Villia's at
tack on Chihuahua City as entirely suc
cessful in its purpose because it dem
onstrated the helplessness of the de
facto government to control the bandit
chief's nativities. For weeks Villa has
been hovering around the city while
Carranza authorities announced they
bad him surrounded and were alout to
crush the bandit and his followers.
Early last week Villa made -open
(Continued on Page Betes.)
COMMISSION
HITS
STUMP OH STEPS
TO
Mexican Commissioners Fail
' to Meet Requirements
In This
WANT WITHDRAWAL AND
THIS UNCONDITIONALLY
Pershing's Forces Cannot Be
Recalled Until Protection
Is Provided
By Carl D. Groat.
(I'nited Press staff correspondent.)
New London, Sept. 18 The American
ud Mexican commissioners in session
here today faced the first situation re
sembling a row which has arisen since
their sessions opened.
It was learned that General Bliss
definitely Recommended to the commis
sioners the withdrawal of the American
expedition from Mexico, concurring
with General Funston. But the com
missioners came near to a split over
what steps should be taken as reenrds
a border patrol after the American with
drawal.
Mexican Commissioner Caberern told
the Americans ho could not discuss col
lateral issues on which they have in
sisted. They must take up withdrawal
first and tiualiy, lie. sunt.
liesuming work after the week recess
the American group found thut its
evidence failed to show conclusively
Carrnaza's abilitv to do all the United
States would have him do for protection
of American interests. The Mexicans
on the other hand held that early with
drawal o'fythe American troops is essen
tial, to progress, iu -.quieting ami, reviv
ing Mexico,
Carranza, Caberera indicated, has
seen stories to the effect that stress wns
being laid on internal affairs. Both
Carranza and Caberera are displeased
at this, though as a matter of fact the
American commissioners have sought to
settle the basic problems of Mexico
before determining upon border mat
ters. Caberera insisted that his powers
were limited to the discussion of with
drawal und protection of the border,
lie indicated to newspaper men that
matters are not altogether hopeless and
that the afternoon session may clear the
atmosphere. The American group of
commissioners were silent, though up
pnrently disturbed.
Indications are evident that the Mex
ican commissioners failed to meet in
any sort of a satisfactory degree re
quirements us to their share of the bur
den of future protection although the
American arbiters professed no intent
of being arbitrary.
GUARD
BORDER
BLACKMAILING GANG
CAUGHT IN CHICAGO
HAD" EARNED" MILLION
Chicago, Sepf. IS. Additional arrests
of men) tiers ot the alleged national
blackmailing gang were expected today
by I'nited States operatices and police
working here on the big plot.
H. C. Woodward said by iuvesigators
to be the brains of the gang, is being
sought and H. S. Clabaugh, federal
investigator, said today that federal au
thorities have positive clews that will
lead to his arrest and that of another
woman, iu a few days.
Clabaugh also announces that Kichard
Barrett and Edward Thomupsoii, whom
he says were formerly members of the
gang, have agreed to testify for the
state. Their stories are said to have
caused Sunday morning's raid.
The federal authorities stated today
that they had in their possession names
o'f a number of Chicago men nnd wo
men, many of them rich who have been
victimized by the band. They will be
called into court to testify tomorrow
if their stories are deemed necessary
to the government's ease iu securing
the removal of the eight under arrest.
Clabaugh said he had been advised
that two men under arrest had been al
lowed to give bond in Philadelphia aud
New York and hail slipped away.
Wire tapping schemes of magnitude,
as well as bluckmailiug operations, are
said to have been worked by those under
arrest.
Secured Million Dollars.
Chicago, Sept. 18. Over a million
dollars in said by government agents
to have been secured from rich men
and women all over the I'nited States
bv four men and three women held
here todny on federal warrants under
I prohibitive bail.
The members of the blackmailing
band will be arraigned before tho fed
leral authorities here Tuesday for
proceedings seeking to return them to
HUGHES STARTS OUT
Accompanied by Mrs. Hughes
Will Keep Busy Until
Election Day
By Perry Arnold.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
x New York, Sept. 18. Invigorated by
a five days' rest, Charles E. Hughes
left New York at 8 a. m. today on his
second campaign tour, and from now
on will be on the road almost constant
ly uniil election day, November 7.
Mrs. Hughes found at the last moment
that she could arrange her affairs so as
to accompany her husband, and was
with the candidate when their train
pulled out for what will be on of the
most energetic campaigns ever attempt
ed by a presidential candidate. Hughes
will spread his doctrine of republican
ism in Illinois, Wisconsin, Ohio, Indiana,
Pennsylvania, New Jersey and New
York when he returns here September
21). The schedule calls for an average of
IS speeches a day. The Hughes party
left iu the car "National," attached to
a special train. The entire train was
made up o'f five cars to care for the
party of 35, including secretaries and
newspaper men.
During the trip the nominee will at
tend three state fairs aad will wind up
his trip at the informal state republi
can convention at Saratogo. N. Y., Sep-
lemoer zs.
Eleven Stage Stars to
Make Perfect Woman
New York, Sept. 18. Take the legs
of Anna Pavlowa, the body of Char
lotte, Hippodrome skater, hands of El
sie Ferguson, eyes of Jane Cowl, mouth
of Billio Burke,, hair of Mnrgofc Kelly,
nock of Mary Garden, Martha . lied
man's note.- the chin of Mae Marsh,
Pixie Gerard's shoulders and Anna
Pennington's feet and you would have
a perfect woman.' At least this is th
opinion of a majority of the chorus
girls nt the Hippodrome. A ticket to
the world's series was hung up as a
prize for the best selection made from
eleven, stage stars to. form an ideul
composite woman. ,
Pavlowa '8 legs ran fnr ahead in the
contest.
Annette Kellenuan 's body was a
close second to Charlotte's and Anna
Held, Maxine Elliott and Julia Mar
lowe crowded Jane Cowl for the eye
honors.
sjc sjc sjc )c ))c sc sfc sfc ))c sfc s(c 3C
FOOD PRICES IN VIENNA
London, Sept. 18. Food dis
orders have broken out in
Vienna, said a Geneva dispnteh
to the Exchange Telegraph to
day. Beef is selling at $4 a
pound and rice at $2 a pound.
There is terrible distress among
families of working men, the
dispatch added.
Philadelphia for trial. The charge on
which removal will bo sought is the
kidnapping of a government witness
at Philadelphia.
Mrs. Edward A. Klipper of Phil
adelphia who is said to have given
400 to tho swindlers was notified by
the federal district attorney she
would be called as a government wit
ness. The wire hnd been tapped and
before the marshal arrived a man
representing himself to be the deputy
marshal, culled and asked Mrs. Klip
per to go with him to the train. She
awoke in Montreal, where she was de
tained. Mrs. Klipper is expected in
Chicago lute today to testify tomor
row. The tango parlors, hotels and clubs
of New York, Philadelphia, Boston,
Atlantic City and other large cities
and said to have been the favorite
hunting grounds of the band. They
have engaged Charles E. Erbstein, a
well known criminal lawyer and ex
pect to have a strong fight for liberty.
Woman Were the Bait.
The women of the party are alleged
by government authorities to have
been used to fntrap rich men into
compromising positions and then
blackmail them. The men are said to
have similarly entrapped rich women.
The person's held in the county jail
on federal warrants are: Edward
Ttombue. ullias 'Doc" Donahue-,
Mrs. Edwnrd Donahue, Mrs . Helen
Evers, alias Mrs. George W. Brown,
Henry Kussell, James Christian, alias
H. J. Cross, George Bland, Mrs.
Frances Allen, alius Mrs. trances
Chsnman.
The number blnckmailed in Chicago
is estimated at from 75 to 100. Hauls
(Continued on Pape Sevea.)
YITNES
1
HE SAW BILLINGS
PLACE-IT CASE
Says He Thought from Action
He Had Stolen It So
Watched Hb
PUT CASE ON WALK JUST
before: explosion
Prosecution Will Call Other
Witnesses to Corroborate
This Story
San Francisco, Sept. 18. Efforts to
impeach the testimony of important
state witnesses by showing that th By
may bnve been offered or received mon
ey by the police created a sensation
during today's session of the trial of
Warren K. Billings on charge of murder
n connection with the pre pored nets day
bomb explosion.
This is believed to be the "bomb
shell" which counsel for the defense
havo been intimating they would ex
plode in the rase. Attorney McNutt in
timated this course of action by the de
fense while cross examining John Mc
Donald, a state witness who testified
thut he had seen Billings place a suit
case at Steuart and Market streets just
prior to the explosion.
McUonnld testified that bis attention
was culled to the man, whom he identi
fiefd as Billings by the man's peculiar
actions. He declared be saw Billinga
come down Steuart street from the di
rection of Mission. He was carrying m
suitcase and was continually glancing;
bout. Witness said he believed at the
time the man had stolen the suitcase so
he watchod his actions closely.
After placing the esse near the saloon
on the corner. Hillings according to the
witness, entered the saloon and later
emerged with a. man, whom the witnesa
identified as -Thomas Mooney. -also
charged with murdor.
BtucK to ilia Biory.
The two then separated, testified Mc
Donald, Billings going bnck toward Mis
sion Btreet and Mooney disappearing;
inro tno crowi. nenruy.
Cross examining the witness. Attor
ney McNutt vigorously assailed the tea
timony. ' Do vou know a barber namcu rrnnic
Siindayt"
Witness said he did.
"Did vou ever tell Sunday that, aa
though in a dream, you bad Beon a man
plant the suitcase and later, when talk
ing with Sunday and a laborer named
Beach, sny 'when those fellows go over
tho rond I'll get niino nnd I'll go east
in parlor cars.' And another day didn't
you say you were getting paid for the
work a day, which you thought the
state was paying fori"
To both of these questions McDonald
answered "no."
McDonald denied he told Captain.
Itockwnv of tho Salvation Army "I'll
go back to Baltimore oa cushions when
I get miuo and these guys, innings ana
Mooney are railroaded."
It is now believed that Sunday will
bo the first witness called by tho de
fense, which will nttempt to refute the
testimony of McDonald.
Itockwoy will also be called.
W1U Corroborate Story.
San Francisco, Sept. 18. The strong
est evidence yet presented by the Btate
in the triul of Warren K. Billings, dyna
mite bomb suspect is expected thin
morning, following the announcement of
the district attorneys orrice uiai ex
perts to close its direct case by noon.
i,.i, ,, M,.Ii,,,,nl,l mill others said to have
actually seen BillingB plucing a heavy
suitcase nt the corner wnere ir
moments Inter there occurred an explo-
ioii causing nine aentns ore io u
laced on the stand this forenoon.
Tli., ih.'fitnHA lines not exncct to in
troduce all of the 100 witnesses sub-
poenaed, according to Chief Counsel
dcNutt, McNutt 's success in Darrina;
ertain phases of the prosecution's the
iry from the case renders these wit
lesses unnecessary, says Billings' at
torneys.
iu,itnl nnd mir-rebnttal on
both sides is certain, both seeking in
ns way to weasen mo witnesses upp
ig them.
THE WEATHER t
"3CHO01. A
( opens 7bDA7
Oregon: To
night and Tues
day fair, norther
ly winds.
