If he Alliance Herald iw&ss
Ten Pa, te
READ BY EVERY MEMBER NEBRASKA STOCK GROWERS ASSOCIATION. ALL THE NEWS OF ALLIANCE AND WESTERN NEBRASKA
OFFICIAL ORX1AN NEURASKA VOLUNTEER FIREMEN'S ASSOCIATION. IT REACHES II KADO CARTERS FOIl 15,000 FIREMEN
VOLUME XXIII
ALLIANCE, BOX BUTTE COUNTY, NEBRASKA, THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 1916
NO. 5
II I
a.
I'
w m
BEST DANCE EVER GIVEN
Over Three Hundred People Attend
ed Twelfth Annual Rail of Alli
ance Volunteer Fire Dept.
The twelfth annual ball of the Al
liance Volunteer Fire Department,
given at the opera house Saturday
night, was pronounced by those who
attended to have been the best ball
of its kind ever given in Alliance.
Over thiee hundred people were in
attendance and everyone was busy
and happy until the strains of the
"Home, Sweet Home" waltz announc
ed the hour of midnight.
Eighty-nine couples took part in
the grand march, at 8:30 o'clock, led
by Mayor llo.uig, who is vice presi
dent of the fire department. In line
were officers of the department, mem
bers and visitors. Other couples
kept arriving until the hall was pack
ed to overflowing.
A six-piece orchestra, led by Mrs.
Minnie Wiker, furnished the music,
which was delightful and of the kind
that kept them all dancing. Red
and white carnations were distribut
ed to the ladies, and a ribbon badge,
to which was attached a fireman's
helmet, and on which the date of the
dance and the name of the occasion
was printed, were given to the men
as souvenirs. Fourteen gallons of
punch were served out to the thirsty
ones, who pronounced it excellent.
The firemen went to an expense of
$150 for the'dance, which is an an
nual affair with them and which has
become the event of the year with the
dancing public of our city.
Among the firemen who took part
in helping make the affair a success
and who deserve credit for it are T.
P. Rolfson, W. L. Myers, Art Schieb.
Tobe Gastineau, E. G. Laing, Lloyd
Thomas, Philip Thomas, Dr. Geo. J.
Hand, Roy Spencer, Wm. Maunier,
Geo. Reiser. Ray Gladson. L. E. Pilk
ington, P. E. Romig, M. E. Reardon.
Lee Basye, R. E. Lester and others.
ICE HARVEST STARTS
Burlington Will Put up 10.000 Toils
of (iood. Hard Ice for Use i
on Tli in Division
The ice harvest on the big Burling
ton lake at Marsland, thirty miles
northwest of Alliance, started Wed
nesday morning with a large crew of
men at work. The Burlington ex
pects to put up about 10,000 tons for
use during the coming season. The
ice at present is fourteen to fifteen
Inches in thickness and firm.
At Alliance the railroad has stor
age capacity of 6.000 tons, and at
Edgemont of 3.000 tons. The bal
ance will be stored at different points
on the division. The ice is about
the right thickness at the present
time but if the cold weather keeps up
it is feared that it will freeze deeper
as it has done In the past, getting as
thick as twenty-four inches. This size
is too thick to handle with conveni
ence.
MUST CLEAN WALKS
Mayor and City Council Are Deter
mined to See That Snow and Ice
Are Removed from Walks
Elsewhere in The Herald this week
will be found a copy of city ordinance
number 38, providing for the remov
al of snow, slush and ice from Bide
walks. The mayor and council are
determined that this ordinance shall
be enforced and are ordering the ord
inance published for the warning of
property owners and tenants.
If the owners or tenants of proper
ty do not remove the snow, ice or
slush from their sidewalks it will be
done by the city and the expense will
be charged up against the property as
a special tax.
. JUDGE ALDEN DELAYED
v.
utivr . v 'i rf ' -
SMak at Opera, House, Delayed
One Day on Account of Storm
Verv recent information from
Jiidee C.eoree D. Alden states that
he has been delayed on account of
heavy storms, and will be a day lato
in visiting Alliance, to entertain with
his lecture, "The Needs of the Hour".
He will be here Friday evening, Jan
uary 7, and is worthy of a hearty re
ception from a large audience.
REV. AND MRS. LAYTON HERE
District Worker for American Baptist
Publishing Society
Rev. and Mrs. Laytor hrve recent
ly secured pleasant quarters and are
residents of our city. Rev. Layton
is district worker for western Nebr
aska in the Interests of the American
Baptist Publishing society, and will
in addition to the work connected
with this concern fill in the vacancy
made by the absence of a regular
pastor for the Baptist church. Rev.
Layton and wife are pleasant people
to meet and we trust they will feel at
home among ua. The former will
bold regular services in the morning
and evening at the aBptlst church.
Old papers for sale at The Herald
offlcs. Five cents a Dunen; six
nctaes for a quarter.
WILL OPEN SOON
II Hive Variety Store, under New
Management, Plans to 0xmi 14th
J. F. Tiller Is New Owner
Work of remodeling the Interior of
the Bee Hive store, recently purchas
ed by J. F. Tiller. Is going on rapidly
and it is expected that the store will
be ready for the opening January 14.
A complete new stock of goods is en-
route, and Mr. Tiller will have one of ;
the moBt complete lines in the coun
try. I
. The company owns stores of like
nature-in other Nebraska towns and;
wun large buying connections can
give low prices of good quality mer
chandise. ADDITION STARTED
Denver Contractor Begins Outside
Work on Additions to Hotel AI-"
liance, will Spend $ 15,000
J. R. McDonald, Denver contractor
who has the contract for building the
additional story and making other
improvements to the Alliance Hotel
building, owned by Adolph Coors, of
Denver, has erected scaffolding sur
rounding the building and Btarted a
crew of a dozen men at work. A I
larger crew will be added as soon as :
the weather permits.
Brick for the additional story are
expected by the last of the week. The
plans call for an expenditure of ap
proximately $15,000 In additions to
the hotel, which will make it one of
the finest in this section of the West.
FARMERS ASS'N. MEETING
The Annual Meeting at Court House,!
last Saturday, Closed a Suc
cessful Year's Work
The annual meeting of the Box
Butte County Farmers' Association,
which was held in the court house at
Alliance, last Saturday afternoon,
closed a successful year's work, or
rather a successful ten months' work,
as the practical work of the associa
tion was commenced, the first of
March.
The meeting was called to order
by the president, L. J. Schill, who
presided.
C. S. Hawk, farm demonstrator for
Dawes county, was introduced and
gave an interesting address.
F. M. fcHdell, county agricultural
agent (p Ifarm demonstrator), gave
a comp.gwensive report of hiB work
for the association, covering the last
ten months. It was very satisfactory
to members of the association and
contains much information that will
serve as an eye-opener to farmers
who are not conversant with the
work that is being done in Box Butte
county thru this organization.
Short talks were made by E. T.
Enyeart, Philip Zobel, J. A. Keegan
and other members of the associa
tion, all of -which indicated that the
most enterprising and successful
farmers of the county are interested
in and satisfied with the work of the
Box Butte County Farmers' Associa
tion. On motion it was ordered that the
fiscal year begin on January 1 and
end December 31 of each year. As
County Agent F. M. Seidell was em
ployed for one year and began his
work on the first of last March, bis
contract still covered two months;
but in order that the term of the
county agent might begin and end
with the fiscal year, Mr. Seidell of
fered to relinquish the unexpired
part of his contract.
Members present at the meeting
expressed themselves as heartily in
favor of employing Mr. Seidell for
the ensuing year, but as the election
of a county agent devolves upon the
board of directors, that matter was
deferred to the meeting of the direct
ors following the adjournment of
the annual meeting of the associa
tion. On motion, it was ordered thai
the association be continued durinp
the ensuing year.
Mr. Seidell made his report to the
board of directors for the month of
December. It showed that there were
76 phone calls. 36 office callers and
9 farms visited during the month.
166 personal and 862 circular letten
were Eent out. 27 farm records were
returned and 730 miles traveled b
rail. and 239 miles by auto. 7 meet
Inss were held with an attendance of
&3. One week was spent at the
county agents' convention in Lincoln
and a week spent visiting during tlu
holidays on annual vacation.
W. F. Patterson, treasurer, made
his report of colections and disburse
ments, which showed that approxi
mately $1,18 5 had been collected to
I caie, l,uiu paiu uui, leaving a uni-
ance of $175 on hand.
The present officers were re-elected,
as follows: L. J. Schill, president;
A. S. Enyeart, vice president; A. H.
Grove, secretary; W. F. Patterson,
treasurer.
Members of the board of directors
one from each country precinct ir
the county, are !eoted at precinci
meetings. The board of dlrectorr
for the last year consisted of the fol
lowing named persons: Wm. David
son, Lake precinct; Fred Trabert
Boyd precinct; F. McCoy. Wrighi
precinct; Fred Crawford, Snake pie
cinct; Neils Peterson, Liberty pre
cinct; E. F. Abley, Nonpareil pre
cinct; Herb Nason. Box Butte pre
cinct; John Jelinek, Running Watei
precinct; Anton Uhrlg. Dorsey pre-
cipct; D. P. Sprectland, Lawn precinct."-
COu'L
CLUB
Semi-annual report of Alliance Com
mercial Club, showing what has
been accomplished in last
six months.
RENDERED BY W.
Alliance commercially has much to be thankful for; trade
has been good, labor has been well employed, and both public
and private improvements have continued in a steady manner.
The harmonious spirit shown by the majority of our busi
ness men speaks well for our city and as a result things are be
ing accomplished that a great many said never could be done.
The majority of our business men are rapidly beginning to real
ize that the problem is not "What does the Commercial Club
do for me?" but "What am I doing for the Commercial Club?"
to the end that the city in which we live, make our money, and
educate our children may in 1916 be a better, busier and more
prosperous city in which to live. .
RESULTS, not RESOLUTIONS, from July 1 to January 1
1. Cooperated with Agriculture Agent Seidell in the sec
ond silo trip an denjoyed a big free dinner served by the farm
ers' wives of our community.
2. Marked the road from Alliance to Chadron, Chadron to
Hot Springs, Alliance to Crawford, Crawford to Hot Springs,
Alliance to Sidney, Alliance to Scottsbluff, Alliance to Broad
water and Alliance to Hay Springs, a total of five hundred and
thirty-five miles. This is the record for any town of our size in
the West
Sent a booster delegation to Bridgeport to attend their
base ball game,
4. Entertained Marshall's Band, of Topeka, Kans., on their
way home from the Sh niters' celebration at San Francisco.
This band garve our citizens a splendid concert and Salt Lake
City was the only other city favored by a concert.
5. HehUthe most successful GOOD KOADK day in the his
tory of Alliance. More Alliance citizens helped in the work
and more business men closed their places of. business than any
olher town in the state. i r
6. Sent a delegation to Brkijjeport to confer with the
County Commissioners regarding the roads in Morrill County.
7. Held five meetings with our County Commissioners re
garding better roads, etc.
8. Farmers and business men held a good meeting at the
City nail in the interest of better roads.
9. Appropriated $150 to help defray the expenses of an ex
hibit at the State Fair, and $150 for our second Labor Day cel
ebration. '
10. With the cooperation of the City Council two blocks of
new hitching racks were installed for the farmers.
11. Held our Second Annual Labor Day celebration at the
Fair Grounds, 3500 people being present.
12. Helped with the shocking bee at Peter Kicken's place.
13. Started the discussion of a Municipal heating plant,
and committee has been appointed to act .with the city council.
14. Entertained the Crawford boosters.
15. Held twenty-seven Directors' meetings.
16. Twelve Committee meetings were held during these
ix months, one smoker and two special meetings with an aver
age attendant? of thirty-five.
19. Arranged for a special train to Hyannis putting up the
necessary guarantee. Sixty-two from Alliance made the trip.
20. Sent a delegation to the Crawford Tri-State Fair.
21. Won three firsts a t the Stale Fair in. the agriculture
exhibits. ,
22. Alliance was the first town in the West to issue a color
chart showing the different automobile roads.
23. We were the only County in the state to send an agri
cultural ( xhibit lo the International Dry Farming Congress at
Denver.
24. Und'.'r the auspices of the Retailers' Association wilh
the help of the Commercial Club Allinneo gave ils first "Mark
et Week" with a whole week of free entertainment. Again
Alliance leads, while others foMow.
25. Cooperated in helping make the Burlington dairy train
a success and as a result the Burlington officials report that Al
liance turned out a bigger crowd than any town on their visit.
26. Appointed a committee to look into the flour mill prop
osition. 27. Held the first "Better Babies Contest" under the Wo
men's Home Companion rules in the West.
28. Gave a banquet for the T. P. A.'s, it being the first one
given by any Commercial Club in western Nebraska.
29. Sent a representative to Columbus to help secure the
next County Commissioerns and Clerks convention.
31. Secured the next State Convention of County Commis
sioners, Supervisors and Clerks.
32. Shortened the road to Angora and Bridgeport eleven
miles.
33. Opened a new road to Broadwater.
34. Placed fifty-seven roads signs along the different auto
mobile routes.
35. Placed in all the garages and hotels who are members
of the Commercial Club a framed color chart showing the dif
ferent automobile routes in and out of Alliance.
36. Helped finance the Chautauqua.
37. Gave financial support to the band with their free con
certs. 38. Sent three representatives to the meeting of the West
ern Nebraska Commercial Clubs at Crawford.
39. Held a special meeting with the Potash Co. offering to
assist them in every way possible.
40. Secured the next district meeting of the I. O. O. F.
41. Suggested to the council that lights be placed in the al
leys in our business district.
42. Circulated a petition for guttering on Box Butte ave
nue. (Continued on back page)
REPORT
D. FISHER, SECY
HYANNIS WILL COME
Prominent Citizen from Neighboring
City Will Attend Father and Hon
Itant'iiet January 1-fth
The Alliance Commercial Club has
received a communication from the
secretary of the Hyannis Commercial
Club. Wm. Richards, stating that a
tiumtipr rf TTvannla man i.m ir,iM
...... . . ..j. .null! .iii ii nm v u IU C UJi
i for the Father and Son's banquet to
do nem nere January 14.
Secretary Fisher sent out Invita
tions to the neighboring townB, in
viting the clubs to send representa
tives, and It Is expected that there
will be a good number present.
A complete program will be pub
lished In The Herald next week.
RAILROAD OFFICIALS MET
Officials of Alliance Division of Itur
ling ton Ilailroiul Met for Con
ference Tuesday
Burlington railroad officials of the
. Alliance division met Tuesday in con
ference here with General Superin
tendent E. E. Young for the purpose
of discussing ways and means of pro-
Jmotlng efficiency and dispatch In the
movement of passenger trade. The
Burlington railroad has a standard
to which It holds Its operating de
partment as near as possible. Dur
ing the busy Christmas rush season
the system always becomes more or
less demoralized and meetings of this
kind are held over the entire system
for the purpose of correcting errors
ana promoting efficiency.
MAKE IT A HUMMER
Alliance Will Hntertain More Conven
tioiix in 1016 Than Any Six oth
er Western Nebraska Towns
The first Commercial Club smoker
for 1916 will be held in the city hall
Friday, January 7, Btartlng at 7:30
p. m. This will be a hummer and
needs the presence of every Alliance
business man and member of the
Commercial Club, for the program
will be interesting, the cigars will be
first class and It will be well worth
the time spent.
Prof. C. W. Pugsley of Lincoln will
be the principal speaker of the even
ing. Commissioners Wanek, Hash
luan and Duncan, and Secretary
Fisher will tell how they handled
their end of the work at Columbus
In securing the 1916 state convention
of commissioners and clerks of Nebr
aska counties. A committee from
the Alliance volunteer fire depart
ment will tell how the department
expects to entertain the visiting fire
men from over the state on January
21. F. W. ("Jimmy") Hicks will
explain how Alliance Becured the next
I. O. O. F. district convention. A
committee from Post M, Travelers'
Protective Association, will tell how
they expect to entertain the T. P. A.
state convention here in April.
When Alliance can take conven
tions away from such competitors as
Omaha, Lincoln, Grand Island, Hast
ings and Kearney, as we did recent
ly, It shows that we are better organ
ized. Show our visitors Friday night
that we are full of "pep" and ginger
by turning out In full force and fill
ing the city hall to overflowing.
HELP MAKE 1916 THE BES1
YEAH ALLIANCE EVEH HAD.
COLO WAVE COMING
Weather KeMrts Show Thai a Cold
Wave Is Sweeping .Middle West,
Coming with High Wind
Weather reports received by th
Burlington railroad company Wed
nesday predicted a htvere cold wave
to reach this part of the country to
day, although it is believed that we
will get only the edge of the rtorm.
The report predicted an extreme
drop in temperature with strong
northwest winds, covering the states
of Iowa, Missouri. Wisconsin. Minne
sota, Nebraska, Kansas and Colora
do. The weather moderated somewhat
the first of the week and has been
more agreeable, snow melting con
siderably Tuesday. At Billings,
Montana, the thermometer dropped
to twenty-eiKht degrees below zero
at 8 o'clock Wednesday morning, and
to eighteen degrees below at the
same hour at Sheridan, Wyoming. At
Alliance the temperature was about
zero. There is much snow on the
ground throughout western Nebras
ka. REVIVAL MEETINGS
Services Start Monday Night at 1ty
MIhkIoii Itev. Mclutyre Will
Preach First Week
A series of continued Bpeclal meet
ings will start at the City Mission at
04 Box Butte avenue beginning next
lonuay e'vening, January 10. Rev.
L.ewts Mclntyre will preach at the
services for the first week and the
other ministers of the city will fol
low succeeding weeks. The services
will start at 8 o'clock each evening.
A general invitation is extended to
all.
Subscribe for Tht Herald II. SI
per year.
ROOM CONTINUES
llank Clearing, New York Stock and
notion ami Hallway Karnlng
Signs of ProHrity
The monthly letter on trade condi
tions Issued by the First National
Bank of Denver predicts a continua
tion of the prosperity now wide
spread over the country, says the
Denver News.
There has been no cessation of ac
tivity because of the holiday season,
total volume of commercial opera
tions being recorded each day being
tineqiialed.
The bank clearings for November
for all the country exceeded $19,000
000.000, as compared with less than '
$11,000,000,000.
Transfers on the New. York stock
exchange aggregated 18,000,000
shares as compared with less than
4,000,000 In 1913. The exchange
was closed in November last year.
Sale of bonds in November gained
a total of $130,000,000 as against
$32,000,000 in November. 1913. For
the first eleven months of the year
the sale of bonds was nearly $841,
000,000, compared,wlth $427,000.
000 a year ago.
Dividend and interest disburse
ments for December amounted to
$147,000,000. compared with $133.
000,000 a year ago. Financing by
corporations In November amounted
to $178,000,000, compared with $31
000,000 last year.
Building operations for November
In 160 principal cities aggregate $73
000,000, an increase over the same
month last year of $24,000,000.
Gross railroad earnings for the
month were $311,000,090, as against
$274,000,000 in November, 1914.
Net earnings were $119,000,000, a
gain of $30,000,000, nearly 34 per
cent. .
In the four weeks ended Novem
ber 27, exports reached a total of
$309,000,000, and Imports were
$125,000,000, creating a favorable
trade balance of nearly $184,000,
000. SMOKER COMES EARLY
Will Start at 7:15 Friday Night In
Order to Penult All to Hear
Judge Alden, Opera llouwe
In order to permit all to attend
the lecture of Judge Alden at the op
era house which starts at 8:45 Fri
day evening, the Commercial Club
smoker will begin at the city ball at '
7:15 o'clock. Alliance business men
should bear this in mind and come as
early as possible to the smoker.
Among other Important subjects
to be discussed at the smoker is the
proposition of allowing the Wortham
shows to come to Alliance again dur
ing the 1916 stockmen's' convention.
They are now endeavoring to make
dates and the club will decide at t he
smoker whether they will ask the
city officials to grant a license or to
refrain from doing so. Many people
are against the proposition, claiming
that the shows take much money
away from the town, while others
are In favor.
DEPARTMENT READY
Fire Hoy Will rrovlds Fine Knter
taimnent for Visitors from Ov-
er the State, January 21
The Alliance volunteer fire deaprt
ment has Invited the delegates from
over the state who attend the state
convention at Crawford January 18,
i9 aim 20 to slop in Alliance Friday,
the 21st, and be their guests for one
day. Many have accepted the invi
tation and several hundred visiting
firemen are expected on that day.
The special committee, of which
Dr. Geo. J. Hand is chairman, met at
the city hall Wednesday evening and
reported on the plans made and prep
arations which had been made. Most
of the visitors are expected to arrive
from Crawford on forty-four at noon.
If the weather 1b open and the snow
Is not too deep for the use of autos,
the visitors will probably be taken to
a nearby ranch probably the J. R.
Pbelan ranch in order that they
may see a western ranch in all its
glory. If the weather will not per
mit the use of autos a special picture
show will be given at the Imperial
for the occasion, at which the visit
ors will be the guests.
In the evening there will be a big
smoker and "love feast" at the opera
house in which Alliance citizens and
business men will be invited to meet
the visiting firemen. Cigars, eatables
and refreshments will be served and
an interesting program will be given,
whjch will include athletic features,
vocal and instrumental music, with
short talks from visitors and local
men.
About forty Alliance firemen .are
planning to spend one day or more at
the Crawford convention. Hyannis
expects to send up fifteen visitors. In
addition to a good attendance at the
convention from the east the western
Nebraska towns will do their share
in making the Crawford convention
the best and largest ever held.
Public Ubrary Clotted -The
public library is closed on ac
count of the fact that the boiler in
the furnace has given out and it will
be a few days before replaced. Pat
rons are hereby notified that the li
brary will not be re-opened until the
first part of next week. (
The Alliance Herald prints alJ
the news all the time. V
