Prod tan Frsnefae
rersla Mara, Jan. 7.
Fop San Francisco: .
Nippon Maru, Jan. 6.
From Vancouver:
Niagara. Jan. 26.
Editid
For Vancouvor:
Kiapara. Jan. 7.
livening Ihilletin. Kat. 1882. No. 636
Hawaiian Star. Vol. XXIII. No. 74".".
12 PAGEe -HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, THURSDAY, JAXUAHV (J, 191(1-12 PAGK8.
PRICE FIVE CENTO
BRITAIN'S CMS
RE ACUTE; LABOR LEADERS BALK
r
i iii ifi ill ii it ii it ii jiii ii t i ii i ii ii ly. i i ii ii
n riiv it Tin a ii tv ii i in
REQf
AN
k.
1
.-0
T2
HONOLULU BANKS
GAIN illLUONS IN
TWELVE fMITIIS
Total Assets' Increase From
$19,572,803 to Huge Total
of $25,351,473 in Course
of Calendar Year 1915
CASH ON HANDAND DUE
FROM BANKS $6-275,892
Deposits at End of Year Reach
Total of $20,367,708; Sur
plus and Undivided Profit
Accounts Show a Gain of
$229,539
December 31 of lSlo closed a calen
dar period of dnexampl! growth for
Honolulu's banks of deposit a year
uhen the total resources cf llu; bank
of the city ma.lo an increase of niorc
tlan 25 per ce.-l, when depof.it." jv.mi?
f(! ud more thau'3 per cent, and
Then both the cash on hand and ur
j.'us and undividol profits also show
el surprisinj growth.
, At -the-clMe cf business on the last
dcr of 1914 the total assets of the
d posit banks 01 lie. city (other tha.i
lunch banks), amounted to Jll,r.,-
Cfi.92. One year later they bad
Jumped to $C:j,'JjI, 473.3? an increase
In 12 months of ?3.772,803.46.
Deposits durirs 1915 Increased
740.183.30. or from J14,627,524.?3 at
the close of 191 1 to $20.367,708.23 an
Increase which Is tlmost at the rat;
of half a milliOii dollars for each
. month.'- '..
'.. The most prcnounecl proportional
gain over the figures of December 31,
1914, was made 'u cash and due from
banks, the Increase being very nearly
fiO per cent, which , makes the posi
tions of the banks relatively so much
stronger than one year ago. At the
close of business at the end of 19J4,
cash and due from banks totaled $4,
117,770.78, and the gain of 'U5S,12l.
56 during tho year brought the trial
lust Saturday up to $6,275,302.14.
Surplus- and un livHeJ - profits ac
-ounta show a gain of $223,&39.75 dur
ing the last year, which brings the
total Of capital, uri. i9 and undivided'
.profits of the Honolulu banks to a
total of f 3.870,3 7.2S. of which M,400,
(tOO Ik paid up caoital, and $1,479,
375.38 accumulated surplus and un
divided profit a.
The foregoing figure were com
piled from the published Ftatementa
of the following banks: Bisbcp &
Company, Bank of Hawaii, Ltd., First
National Bank of " Hawaii, Bank of
Honolulu, Ltd., and the Pacific Bank,
Ltd. The local branch of the Yoko
hama Specie Bank had given out n.)
statement. The standings of individ
ual banks may be s-tt-n in the adver
tising columns of the Star-Bulletin' as
they have appeared since the first of
the year. -
Published statements of the trust
companies of Honolulu show no less a
proportionate gain in resources and
business than the uenks uf deposit
ROSESTANDSBY
IN GENELLA CASE
Sheriff Convinced Officer Used
Club'to Save Himself From
Being Beaten
i tew""s
Arter hearing what Policeman Rob
ert Akeo claims are the facta relat
ing to his clubbing Joe M. Genella,
Company C, 2nd Infantry, and also
hearing the statements of others who
raw the fight at Aala park when the
officer cut Genella's head by striking
him with a club, Sheriff Charles H.
Hose has decided the policeman was
blameless and will take no further
action. .
"When a policeman is attacked and
in self-defense uses his club because
he is forced to. I shall certainly up
hold him.M said the Sheriff. "It is
against the " rules for an officer to
strike a man with his fist and when
policemen tuse their fists they are dis
missed. The club is given them to
use in case of necessity and I am con
vinced Akeo used his to save himself
from being beaten.
"Akeo was assisted in making the
arrest of Genella by soldiers of the
provost guard. continued Rose.
"Genella w as fighting when he was
struck.
"Exaggerating a rtory like this and
( Con tinned on page eight)
FOR RENT
Furnished or unfurnished, a
large two-story house. Apply
408 Beretania aU or phona
will, ;
-
POL EWA EO
SENATOR FALL
OF N. MEXICO
RAPS WILSON
Demands Grounds of Adminis
tration for Recognizing Car
ranza; Says President Does
" Not Take Congress Into His
Confidence
Associated Press by Federal Wireless
WASHINGTON, D. C Jan. 6. The
opening cf the heralded fight on ths
Wilson administration cn account of
its Mexican policy came today in the
United States senate and was led by
Senator Albert B. Fall of New Mexico.
Senator Fall introduced a resolution
asking the president upon' what In
formation he based the agreement of
the United States to recognize Gen.
Carranza as president of Mexico.
Senator Fall declared that former
presidents have taken Congress into
their confidence, but, said he, "we
never knew the time before when any
president dared to ignore Congress
like President Wilson does."
Associated Press by Federal Wireless
NEW YORK, N. Y- Jan. 6. The
steamer Thessaloniklhich has been
abandoned in a waterlogged and sink
ina condition, is now a menace to
shipping, as it is floating a derelict in
the lanes of the Atlantic liners. The
steamer Patris, to which were trans
ferred the Thessaloniki'a passengers,
is due here tonight or tomorrow morn
ing.'
U. STSTEEL IS"
muLo
NEW YORK, N. Y Jan. 6. The
United States Steel Corporation today
made public the fact that it has put
Into effect an increase of 10 per cent
in the wages of all unskilled employes.
PARKERS BURG, W. Va, Jan. 6.
Capt. Berry of the steamer Kanawha,
wrecked last night in the Ohio river,
estimates that 12 persona have been
lost. Others place the loss at 18. '-.
TREASURER OF NEW
YORK TIMES IS DEAD
NEW YORK, N. Y., Jan. 6. Charle
W. Knapp, treasurer of the New York
Times, died suddenly, today in the
Timea office.
ALL JAPAN INTERESTED !
IN ENVOY FROM RUSSIA
(Special Cable to Hawaii Shlnpo.)
TOKIO, Japan, Jan. 6 Prince Ma
harovitch, who is the personal dele
gate of Czar Nicholas of Russia, will
arrive in Tokio on January 11. Jap
anese officials are now making prep
arations for his reception. The news
papers and public are discussing the
coming of the representative in many
different ways, and much Interest is
being taken in the probable outcome
of his visit The Japanese govern
ment states that the Russian's visit is
merely to thank the Japanese govern
ment for the assistance they have ren
dered Russia by furnishing ammuni
tion. Will Give Chance
To Work Up Boom
While Os Gone
Associated Press by Federal Wireless
NEW YORK. N, Y.. Jan. 6 It was
announced today that Col. Theodore !
Roosevelt wl!l start for a trip to the
West Indies on February 15. and that
he will return In April. Mrs. Roose
velt will accompany him. :
There have been rumors for some
weeks that Col. Roosevelt would make
some move thit would allow his sup
porters to work up a presidential
boom for him while he was tempo
rarily absent from the scene of action.
SUGAR
SAN FRANCISCO. Jan. 6. Sugar:
!; degrees test, 4.44 cents. Previous
quotation, 4.477 cents.
STEAMER IS NOW
DANGER TO SHIPS
niiomin
MANY LOST N
ToRepaii ' f Fldtilla
Associated Press Service by Federal Wireless .
WASHINGTON, D. C Jan. 6 Estimates for appropriations submitted
to Congress today disclose the fact that the navy department proposes to
spend $205,000 each in remodelling submarines F-1, F-2 and F-3.
These three submarines were badly damaged while lying in the slip
here by the U. S. S. Supply, which rammed the group in making berth sev
eral months ago. When the vessels were ordered out of commission and
sent to San Francisco for repairs at Mare Island, a local prediction was
made that the submarines would be permanently retired, faults common to
the F group having been found during the investigation of the F-4 disaster.
The statements to the Star-Bulletin of Lieut K. B. Crittenden, command
ing the flotilla, that the submarines would be repaired and sent back into
service now turn out to be correct, according to the navy department's
plans. .v
IONIAN MEETS
PERILWHEN DECK
LOAD IS SHIFTED
Fights 75 Mile an Hour Gale
for Two Days; Heavy seas
on Deck
CRAMMED T0HATCHES
WATH ARMY AMMUNITION
Safely weathering a gale that blew
75 miles an hour for two days and
caused part of her deck load to shift
and give her a list to port until It was
rearranged, the Matson steamer Hilo-
nian arrived early this morning direct
from San Francisco, laden to the
hatches with several thousand tons of
potential death and destruction, rang
Ing from rifle cartridges for the army,
to blasting powder, dynamite, distil
late and gasoline.
Officers of the ship said it was the
roughest trip, at least from the coast
here, that they have ever experienced
The steamer ran full tilt Into a north
west gale cn leaving San Francisco,
and. for two days the Hilonian's offl
cers and crew were an extremely busy
and anxious lot of men.
It v .was - th-& same storm which
created such havoc in and around
Sah Francisco. ' The Matsonia and
Ventura both ran Into it, and
th Hilontan had her share of
weath jr. The Matsonia passed her at
9 o'clock last Wednesday night. Both
boats left the coast city" that day.
Gasoline Cargo Shifted.
As a result of the terrific gale, the
Hilonian's cargo shifted, mostly the
deck load, which consisted of a large
number of drums of gasoline and dis
(Con tinned on page two)
Is Joshua D. Tucker, territorial
commissioner of public lands, to be
discharged from office before his
term expires on March 3? A persist
ent rumor of such action on the gov
ernor's part was afloat at the Capitol
today, but could not be verified.
"That is a leading question," was
the governor's response . when asked
as to the truth of the report, "and I
decline to answer leading questions."
The governor added that the smart
est lawyer in the United States had
once tried to get him to answer a
leading question, but had failed.
Tucker's term expires oh March 3,
ahd it is not the belief of territorial
employes In the Capitol that he will
be discharged before that time. They
think that he will be kept in office
for another term by the governor, and
scout the idea of any dismissal.
Commissioner Tucker has not been
n the best of health Tor some time.
but it is not believed that he has ten
dered his resignation on account of
this.
Tucker Is said to have a great many
warm friends among the higher-ups
who will fight-against any effort made
to dismiss him from office.
JUDGE STUART OFF OF
BENCH, THOMPSON GETS
PLACE, INSISTS RUMOR
A rumor " wss flashed about the
streets late this afternoon to the ef
fect that Circuit Judge Thomas B.
Stuart had been removed and that J.
Wesley Thompson, former assistant U.
S. district attorney, had been appoint
ed to his place on the circuit court
bench. .' . .
When communicated with Mr.
Thompson only laughed and said that
it was "the first he had heard about
it." Up to press time Judge Stuart
could not be found to either confirm
or deny the report. Chief Justice A.
G. M. Robertson said that as far as
he knew Judge Stuart had not been
removed.
Despite Mr. Thompson's denials
when asked if he was not moving all
Si
BOURDONS RENEI7
VIGOROUS FIGHT
Congress Gets Copies of the
Pamphlet Against Governor
Used in 1914
NO DEFINITE ACTION
EXPECTED AT PRESENT
No hope is entertained by the.antl-
Pinkham faction of the Democratic
party in Hawaii that there will be
any definite action in Washington
soon. If ever, upon the printed attack
on the governor sent to every mem
her of Congress recently.
The pamphlet was presented to the
congressmen, it appears, rather as ma
terial for a future campaign than with
the expectation that, either Secretary
Lane or the president would act upon
it. It was dated back in July 23, 1914,
but made Its- appearance in Congress
only last month, when It appeared on
the desks of the house and the senate.
This circular has already been given
considerable notice in Ha wait In it
the president is asked to recall Gov
ernor PinkhaM. and.fuifc. Botfrbohi on
guard In his place. Various alleged
un-Democratic ; and un-pnbllc spirited
acts are then cited against the exec
utlve. . He is said to have been an,
agent of the planters in bringing tot
eign labor here for six years, to have
appointed men controlled by the plant
ers, to have kept Republicans in office,
to have appointed Republicans r to of
flee, to have allowed public funds to
be . used for the employment of Re
publicans, and other political offenses.
(Continued on page two)
Associated Press by Federal Wireless J
PEKING, China, Jan.' 6. -President
Yuan Shlh-Kai is having removed the
military stores from centers subject
to revolutionary, attack.
(Special Cable to Hawaii Hochi.)
TOKIO, Japan. 'Jan. 6. Yuan Snih-
Kai will formally ascend the throne In
Peking on Wednesday, January 12.
This; statement was given out today
by a member of the Chinese council;
Wong Hing. one of the leading Re
publicans in China, who was the right
hand man of Dr. Sun Yat Sen during
the Nanking government, will arrive
n Honolulu on the Persia Maru from
San Francisco tomorrow. Mr. Hine
has lived in United States most of the
time since Yuan Shih-Kal has been
at the head of affairs in China, and
while in the United States he has heei
instrumental in raising funds for the
National partj: movement.
It is reported that Wong Hina--is
bound for Tokio. where he will confe
with Dr. Sun Yat Sen on the Revo
lutionary movement, and later the two
prominent Nationalists will go to
Shanghai where a conference or all
tb leaders of the Revolutionary party
will be held in the near futire. Wnhg
Hing is considered to be one of the
greatest men in the Nationalist politi
cal circles in Chfna.
Members of t've Hawaii Promotion
Committee will hold their first is-Ian
meetine. on Maui on . January l!V to
17. W. O. Aiken. Maui representative
who has charge of arranging the time
of i the meeting, has announced that
Saturday. Sunday and Monday would
be the logical days for meetinss in
Walluku and other points on Ma;i
Local representatives will leave Ho
nolulu on Friday evening. January 14.
arriving at Wailuka Saturday morn
ing. his belongings from his office to Judge
Stuart's chambers, it is reliably re
ported that all of. his things were re
moved from his office in the Bank of
Hawaii building by 3 o'clock this afternoon.
YUAN REMOVES
ARMY STORES TO
SAFER PLACES
I HOUSE COMMITTEEMEN
HEAR OF ARMY PLANS
'
Hon. James Hay of Virginia,
chairman of the house committee
on military affairs, before which
Secretary of War Garrison ap
peared today.
SECY. GARRISON
Declares Integrity ' of ' Nation
May Depend on What Con
r , gress Does Now : -r v:
Associated Press by Federal Wireless
WASHINGTON, D. C, Jan. 6. A
vigorous argument on behalf of the
administration's plan for army txpan
slon and development was presented
today before the house commttfs a on
military affairs by Secretary of War
Garrison. He made a formal argument
for the plan, detailing the figures the
administration suggests.
"The integrity of the existence of
the nation may depend on what is
done now, said Mr. Garrison. "We
have a great opportunity which may
be lost unless a wise and practical
policy is the result of the considera
tion and action of Congress. .
Garrison's talk developed no defi
nite opposition to the army expansion
scheme. Congressman Kahn of Cali
fornia, a member of the committee,
asked the secretary if the Monroe
Doctrine is not a constant source of
danger against which the United
States must prepare. Garrison replied
that the United States must be pre
pared to defend it or abandon it.
BATTERING LENS
The following cablegram from offi
cial Germin sources was received to
day: '
"German Headquarters, Jan.
the west front in -some places artillery
duels are in progress. The enemy i".
uninterruptedly shelling the town of
Lens. An attack by the enemy with
hand grenades northeast of Lemesnit
was easily defeated.
"The . enemy made an air-craft at
tack against Douai but without : suc
cess. German aviators have shot down
two English aeroplanes, one being
conquered by Lieut. Llolke, who thus
has seven disabled machines to his
credit,.:';- ;v 'V:;:V : ' v
"On the east front a German recon
noitering ' detachment advancing in
the forest south of Jacobstadt with
drew before a superior attack of the
enemy. An advanced Russian position
near Czartorysk was attacked and dis
lodged by the Germans."
BANKS ASKED TO
SIIOV STATISTICS
WASHINGTON, D. C, Jan. 6 A
call upon the country's banks for
their statistics as of December 31 hat
been made by Comptroller of the Cur
rency Williams. He is seeking fur
ther information as to possible Viola
tion of the usury laws. He asks for a
list of the loans during 1915 on which
more than six per cent interest has
been charged. In his call he cautions
the banks to prepare their statements
accurately.
mm .mm
j v '"ri-:.J ;"f
i
ll I
URGESMEffi
FRENCH SHELLS
WOW'T SUPPORT COMPULSORY
MILITARY BILL; EAST FRONT
SCENE OF FURIOUS BATTLING
BERLIN DECLARES SLAV SUCCESSES AT CZERNOWITZ
MYTHICAL, WHILE ALLIES REPEAT NEWS FRENCH
POUND TEUTONS EFFECTIVELY ON WEST ITALIAN
- LINER CARRYING GUNS TO REPEL SUBMARINES AR
RIVED AT NEW YORK, CREATING ISSUE
r Associated Pi ess Service by Federal Wireless
LONDON, Eng.. Jail. 6. The biff Labor Congress, roprm'ntiiif:
many thousand laboring men in England, Hc-otlaiul and Wales, Mrent
on reeord today apainst the compulsory military service bill which
Premier Asquith yesterday, introduced with the backing of the cab
inet. :
My a vote of two to one the congress decided to lemand the
withdrawal of the bill. Hendersoiu the labor leader of the House
of Commons, served notiee that if the ebngress decided to resolve
to oppose the bill he would refuse to cooperate with it. Subsequently
he resigned his seat in the house.
Another labor leader;-. 'William Iraee, parliamentary" under sec-"
retary, also resigned his seat. Henderson was president of the board
of education. : 1 4 'V4' i-' '. : . .; " -: -:.
WASIIINOTON". I). C. Jau. C Ambassailor I-'rcdorio (Uiurtlanif
Penfield has cabled from Vienna that he presented informally to the
Austrian government the request of America for information as to
the sinking of the Persia presumably by an Austrian submarine. No
reply has been received from Austria. : '
Consul Oarrels, the U. S. official at Alexandria who. has been
instructed to gather all the facts possible, cabled today that he Lh
unable to gather any additional proof of th-circumstances under
which the P. & O. liifer was torpedoed.
Italian
Liner at New YorkX
for Defense Against Submarines
Guns
NEW YORK, N. Y., Jan. 6. With the arrival today of an Italian
liner carrying guns, an issue has been brought up for the United;
States government to adjust that of an armed liner entering, art
American port. .SiraHltaneously it , is revealed that the Italian ves
sel is taking' s means of protecting itself against attack by subma
rines. ' V- :": ' : -" '" '
, ; :: ; The Italian steamer Giuseppe Wrdi arriv JfxoittsiJ en ca -torlayj"
with two -f-inch guns mounted in the stern. 'Iajsengers bo the ViTs
sel declared that the Italian government is respoasible for thus arm
ing the liner, and that the guns are intended to repel submarines in
case a Teuton diver tries to attack the passenger-ship.
Skilled gunners from the Italian navy are in charge of the guns
on the Giuseppe Verdi. They practised daily rwhile the steamer was
coming from Italy, say the passengers. Barrels Were thrown over
board and the navy men shot at them from the 4-inch guns.
: WASHINGTON, D. C, Jan, 6.- The state department will prob
ably argue the question raised with Italy as to the arrival of an
armed vessel flying the Italian flag. The fact that the Giuseppe
Verdi carries the guns may cause the department to ask that before
the steamer leaves American waV-rs the guns shall be" removed. ?
Berl
in Denies Russians Have Made
Gain; London Gets Contrary Ilep brt
PETROGRAD, Russia, Jan. 6. Advices frolu the. front indicate'
that the Austrians will be forced back of the linthrougljI&fomea,
Stani8law and Galich in the near future, owjng to the iteady' Rus-'
sian advance, which has succeeded in storming the fqlrtifications-
about Czernowitz. ; . - '-- . y x . '
BERLIN; Germany, Jan. 6.
the Slav claim of consistent successes in the last few daysli The Ger-- C : '
mans say that the same position is now in their hands .a Jias been ';
held for months. The Germans, however, a'dmit the withdrawal of
a detachment of troops from the Riga-Dvinsk front, south of Jacob-
stadt. This withdrawal, they explain; was tine to the fact that a r vy
superior force of Russians was advancing. i Official announcement!
also says that the Russians have been dislodged from their positions
at Bolhynia. , ), , . , . . '
LONDON, Eng., Jan. 6. While conflicting news has 'come here,
regarding the fighting on the extreme southeast front, the Tirries has -learned
that the Russians pierced the enemy's positions' at Czerno-r -
witz and pushed several miles westward, succeeding in reaching?
the second line of defense of the Teutons. - ' '
French
Artillery Is
v LONDON, Eng., Jan. 6. The French artillery in the district
between Soissons and Rheims, in Champagne-, are pounding the Ger-l
man lines hard, raining the huge explosives on the trenches with
disastrous effect, according to the claims of the officials. The French "
say that notable damage has been inflicted on the German positions.
France Determined to Fight to End
PARIS, France, Jan. 6. Paid Deschanel, president of the French
chamber of deputies, in an address today declared: 'The Parlia-,
ment and the country are of one accord in the determination to wage
to the very end and to victory this war against the enemy.'
War-God Demands More Food of Gold
LONDON, Eng., Jan. 6. News has been received here, that the
Bulgarian parliament has approved a war credit of $100,000,000.
The January number of Torpedo, of
ficial publication of the third sub
marine division,, will be off" the press
In a couple of days, its editor, E. II.
Shaffer, announced today.
News which-. has reaohed lieipe from
Pounding Hard
- ' f.
The report of the bureau of vital
statistics of the hoard of health for
December ' shows that, during tha
month, there were 149 deathVr-TntHe
territory.
