"- -&ytpt&n.iv' -r j
FINANCIAL EDITION
IMtger
NIOH1
ituenum
NIGHT
EXTRA
EXTRA
Fvol. n-yo. as
PHILADELPHIA, TIIUKSDAY, JANUARY 0, 1010.
CortmntiTi 10J0, nt tub Pcumo I.rvarti Cohpani.
PRICE ONE CENT
EDEN'S ANTI -
SENTIMENT MAY LEAD TO
GERMAN
Muscovite Menace
t Worries Stockholm,
' Journalist Declares
in Analysis
I
(Not to Scandinavian Interest as
a Nation to JL.ec ivaiser auc
cumb to Mortal Blows of the
Quadruple Alliance 1,000,
000 Men War Strength
Wnuld Frustrate Czar's Ambition to
" . . r,-...i-A Wn.m.Wnfir Pnrf-
Obtain uovbwu ...". ........ --.-
" on WeSt IjOllSl Ul uva.iu.i.....
Peninsula Attitude of Norway
una """
t
' By CHARLES P. STEWART
COPENHAGEN, Jan. .
. , ini.mi tn let. Germany
en qo - "-- "- If 9h0 ,3
IJMo nTakTwar herself a- Germany'
, Sweden may not lns.it upon an out aa.
&raUowthor-
,)an W ""'"""': " a fv. but sho
ffiffin Vtfth her whole Voul She
h&KSSL VlTr s!ngt
Im be the deciding factor In tho last
resort. ..... . .,.
This Is tho outstanding inci i ..
Scandinavian situation us outlined today.
. i. . n Rtvoiio tun remem-
ber all Swedes have been In terror of-.
Russian attempt to obtain tho Czars
much and lonK-covotcd warm-water port
to tho wit coast of tho Scandinavian
SmlnsuUu This can only bo at Norway's
iSSlSSlnd Nor vay can only bo reached
through Sweden.
The Swedes nssert thoy can put ,w,-
troops Into tno neiu. .mjoh
this, but concedo that tno si "
tdmlramy trainca mm "-" " r." ,"
,vent of host It les tney wou.u - --
across mo iruuiici ,i." - --- --
i i ...... t,- W Irtrta WOllM tOm
expectation urns, mu - " v. : i
them in a campaign to capture PctroBrad
and sweep southward to Join tho Ger
mans near Riga.
Tho Norwegian attltudo cannot do
ipoken of so unqualifiedly. By sentiment
na in consequents u n-.. ...-..-, ----'Norwegians
sympathize with England.
They are nunutui, too, 01 wiu " ""-!.-..,
.... n.,i,i tfftrif tn thplr mcr-
chant licet, tho world's largest after
Inglnnd's nnd uermany a.
....,, nrti.. nfrinprfi. horn.usn many
.u-M Am (rnlnnH In RprmnilV. nrft
ff .UlGUi YVu ...... .w.. ... . - -
mostly pro-German, but tho masses ot
finrwnclnnA.ato.Jricnuiy,tq.nfi!ani-iu'-torpolUlcal
reasons tho Norwegians pre-
lumauiy wouiu oo wna mo ontucn
gainst Russia, lr rorcca to iaKo siues.
h VnrtiAirliiiiq rnn TTUlRter 400.000 excel
lent soldiers, fully equipped.
Denmark aoes noi cnier nuu huiwibui
luaJInmiLn DnnlMnltln'o ln Ipill t tlnTlH.
The Danes nro pro-Ally In sympathy and
uerman nniers, uom us a. icbui;y uum wnu
days when Schleswlg-HolBteln was lost
to the Germans and for fear that more
lor all the remainder of their territory
Tin go me somo way.
EXPERT EXPLAINS CANCER,
KAISER'S REPORTED AILMENT
jDr. George Fotterolf, of U. of P., De
fines Serious Throat Affection
Dr. George Fcttcrolf, assistant profes
or of anatomy of the, University of
Pennsylvania Medlc.il School, when ques
tioned today relative to the rumors re
garding the. Illness of tho Kaiser and tho
report that he was suffcrlnc- from a
cancer of the throat, said:
"Cancer of the throat is extremely
rlous, nearly always requiring a dlffl
cult operation. Suffocation Is sure to
icllow If tho grorth continues to increase
feaide.
"From time to time such operations
fcaye been performed at tho University
Uoipltal and havo been moderately suc
cessful, in cases where radium Is used,
about 25 per cent, are cured. The pa
tient is usually confined for an extended
period. It the growth Is large, It Is
necessary to place a silver tube In the
trachea to prevent the patient from chok
(nt to death."
ffHE WEATHER
Cao of our pet theories is that even
triety. (f one has enough of it. becomes
Monotonous. For Instance, the monotony
W something different for breakfast every
KOrolne would annov soma nersons In-
BMMly, And there are not many of us
woum De bored to death by dining
& different nlacn everv nfeht. Tn nther
wds, variety may have Its spice In life,
no may tire even or spice. TJje
'Odern insurance .nmnAnv Ifnnwfl hnw tn
Mtldpate the unanticipated with more
'" aeaaiy accuracy. They insure
"Yea at a financially sound rate
injt conflagration and epidemic by
HlatlnSr thn mnthnmnHnal i,,nhnhmiv
.' .? ,unPected occurring. The fact
" lma weatner is an unpleasant con
S, if' th Incontinulty of rain, snow.
, job, neat ana com on succeed-
we Know what to expect these days!
!' I
FORECAST
r Philadelphia and vicinity
f and much eoMer tnninht ,islti n
Wave; Fridau fair: f'rph fn
!ng north vrinda.
10ST AND FOUND
T,t.T.c,.l:-ot. red enamelsd watoh in a...-
Fk!S Last. vt,i,. .r., '
i-otKUiut --,- -..'. wvuiujr. on or near
iaKXHil,5 W? " "i1"8 coBtalnla some
Cft!"- kfiffio'i ; fi?? ?mS ?.'" rd.
frt-Ctne i, " "' " ' "'""'Kwnery,
fltUu"!' pat& d by TltUny. London!
Ettturi.r V W on b.ack- Heward of m
. en sSB?B AND. LADY'S" HANDHAO
NSTitpj- 7 - " ?u5-v-s"i'? .
rsf . iieuard jf returned to S04 8. iSiti t
jwidiy ij luvrrj, U N American
tr Clautflca Ad, 0 Pogti IS mi a
RUSSIAN
WAR ALLIANCE
Ford Ship Correspondent
Analyzes Swedish Stand
Charles P. Stowart, who sent the
following dispatch on the attitude
of the three Scandinavian neutrnl
countries townrd the war, was for
three years general European man
ager of the United Pross, fre
quently visited Scandinavian capi
tals and is conversant with tho sit
uation, As n staff correspondent
with tho Ford peace party, he has
spent a fortnight in Christinnia,
Stockholm and Copenhagen,
BULGARS MASS
ON GREEK LINE
FOR INVASION
Campaign to Drive Allies
From Salonica May Open
in a Few Days
AIRMEN RECONNOITRE
Mackensen Ordered to Move
Immediately Against Entente
Base on Aegean
BERLIN, Jnn. G. Official denial
was telegraphed here from Vienna to
day of the report that the Austrians
had evacuated Czcrnowitz.
LONDON. Jan. C.
Invasion of Greece by armies of the
central empires Is nbout to begin, accord
ing to dispatches from several widely
scattered sources today.
A dispatch from Salonica reported that
the Bulgarians had resumed their con
centration along tho Greek border in the
last 4S hours, and that i. Is believed the
campaign to drlvo the Alllej from Greeco
wUl open within n few days. Anglo
French aerial scouts aro most actlvo
alon tho nulgarlan fro it. Ammunition
Is moving forward from Salonica, and the
Allies aro making every preparation to
meet tho expected attack.
Field Marshal von Mackensen nas Decn
ordered to movo Immediately ogainst,
Salonica. the Frankfurter Zettuilg de
clares. Tho railway leading southward
through Serbia has been repaired and
artillery and munitions sent forward to
tho front.
Similar reports camo from Athens and
Home today. Athens reported the con
tinuous arrival of Dulgarlan troops at
tho border and added that a squadron of
Austrian aviators has arrived at Mon
astic Somo of tho Bulgarian forces
rcnchlng tho border were fresh from the
Albanian campaign against the Serbs, It
wns reported.
Home newspapers printed dispatches
from several sources today, declaring
tho first battle on Greek soil imminent.
BULGARIANS DEMAND U. S.
GIVE UP BRITISH CONSUL
LONDON, Jan. C.
A dispatch from .urlch, Switzerland, to
tho Exchango Teleg'aph Company, says:
"A message from Sofia says the Dul
garlan Minister at Washington has been
Instructed to demand the surrender of the
British Vlco Consul, who took refuge in
the rooms of Dominic I. Murphy, tho
American Chnrge d'Affairos, when Bul
garia ordered his arrest In retaliation for
the arrests of the consuls of tho Central
Powers at Salonica."
Dominic I. Murphy is United States
Consul General at Sofia. He Is a Phil
adelphia and a member of the bar ot
Pennsylvania. Ho proceeded to his post
last February.
Iteuter's Athens correspondent rays the
Greek Government has made a written
protest gainst tho arrcrt ot Greek sub
jects at Salonica. This protest, which has
been delivered to the Entente MImsters
at Athens, demands in energetic language
thj immediate release of these pe-sons
BERLIN, Jan. 6. 'The Orcek Minister
at Sofia has presented to Premier Rados
lavoft the text of the Greek note protest
ing to the Entente Powers against the
arrest ct the German, Austrian, Bul
garian and Turkish consuls at Salonica,"
says the Overseas J'.ov a Agency. "The
Minister informed the Premier that
Greece will use all means at i.s disposal
to support its claims, and desires to main
tain good relations with the Central
Powers, avoiding any mttunderstandlng
with them."
ITALY WILL STOP ADVANCE
AT EPIRUS FRONTIER
LONDON, Jan. 6.
An Athens dispatch to the Times stys
that Italy has promised Greece that her
forces shall not advance beyond the
fronUer of Northern Eplrus.
A Renter dispatch from Salonica says:
"French aviators have been busy dur
ing tho last few days over the enemy
lines. They have dropped bombs on
Petrich, Strumltza and other towns
where troop movements have been ob
served. 'The bombs apparently caused consid
erable number ot casualties, especially
In Petrich, where they were seen to ex
.plode In the centra of the town, causln?
buildings to collapse and lire to break
out."
PARIS. Jan. fc. Allied airmen bom
barding Glevgell, Southern Serbia, in the
course of a reconnaissance, destroyed
the sheds in the German aviation camp,
according to a Havas dispatch from
Athens under Tuesday's date. '
Family Drfven Out by Fire
Fire was discovered In the butcher shop
and brick dwelling of Aaron Nedlch. at
1112 Ritner street, early today. Nedlch
and hU wife and four children occupied
the second floor and were obliged to llee
to the street in their nlghtclothes. The
tire, of unknown origin, started in the
kitchen. The "damage amounted to I MO.
LABOR PROTESTS
AGAINST PASSAGE
OF "DRAFT" BILL
National Council So Goes
on Recoud Irish Lead
ers in Opposition
TO BE "RAILROADED"
Government Expects Act to Be
on Statute Books by First
of February
LONDON. Jan. G.
Lnbor lenders struck a heavy blow
against conscription today. A resolution
protestlnc- "In tlin nnmi nf s.imopn imrtna
I unionists" ngalnst compulsory enlistment,
J nni Introduced by the Executive Com-
mince wnen me national Lrfibor Congress
met In Centrnl Hall, Westminster.
By a vote of i to 1 delegates voted clown
nn amendment to make it compulsory
for single men of military service to at
test their willingness to enlist. Delegates
representing 2.121.0CO union workers In the
United Kingdom voted ngnlnst the amend
ment, while delegates representing 641,000
union workers voted for It. The amend
ment wns Introduced In eonnoetlon with
I a resolution condemning conscription,
i Thoro nro 000 delegates present at '.ie
i Labor Congress, representing 100 unions,
I with nn approximates membership of 3,-
It Is Impossible to predict the fate of
tho conscription bill. Although Its pas
sage Is In somo quarters believed almost
assured, many observers think that It
will satisfy neither tho compulslonlsts,
who believe It Insufficient, nor the volun-
! tnrlsts who, determined on the question
or principle, uphold tho "British birth
right of freedom" and oppose every form
of compulsion.
In splto of bitter opposition In the
House of Commons ngnlnst tho mllltnry
service bill, providing modified conscrip
tion, Gotrnmcvit loaders dcclnrcd today
that Its Immediate passage would be
pressed, and predicted that It would be
upnn thfj statute books by February 1.
Members of the Government are op
posed under the leadership of Sir John
Simon, resigned Home Secrotnry, nml tho
Irish party with John Dillon nnd John
Redmond ns spokesmen, registered objec
tions, after the Premier had proposed the
bill In Commons. Lord Kitchener made a
strong speech In favor ot the bill.
Considering the compulsion bill in the
light of tho general effect, Mr. Asqulth
said, ho would havo been glnd to do
without It. He had expressed tho expec
tation that tho bill would not be neces
sary, but his hope had not been realized.
Ho considered that the bill was necessary,
and was sangulno enough to believe that
when Its provisions were understood It
would have tho good fortuno to receive
something like general assent.
The Rt. Hon Charles E. Hobhouse,
one of the antl-conscrlptlonlsts, said that
ns tho Prime Minister had declared that
tho bill wns vital to the continuance of
tho war ho could not nssume the respon
sibility of opposing It. He, however,
nRkeil .the. Government to give, assurance
ttnttHlils'itempOTary 'measure was "not'to"
bo the preliminary to a permanent meas
ure. Jnmes Henry Thomas, Labor member
for Derby, opposed the bill. He said:
"There li a deep-rooted suspicion In tho
minds of the workmen of the country thnt
conscription hns been forced on the Gov
ernment, not with a view to winning tho
war, nor becnuso of Its military value,
but becauso a certain section of the
press "
Tho remainder of the sentence was lost
amid, cries of "Oh! Oh!" from all sides
of tho House.
Andrew Bonnr Law, Secretary for tho
Colonics, tn supporting the bill, closed
with tho dcclaintion:
"The Premier fs convinced that com
pulsion is a matter of national necessity,
and If the House decides that no national
necessity exists, then tho House must
make up Its mind that the war will have
to be finished without the assistance of
tho present Premier."
John Redmond said: "It Is with the
greatest regret that I have to announce
thnt my party cannot support the bill.
Ireland regards this as her war and sho
will stop at no sacrlllce to bring It to a
speedy and successful Issue. Nobody,
however, has shown that this bill Is
necessary for this purpose, Premier As
qulth himself having declared it was
needed to fulfil a certain pledge which
he had given.
"I believe we have today more soldiers
than we can train, equip and provide
with otlicers." j
John Dillon said:
"We nre asked to adopt conscription
Continued on I'are l'our. Column Six
LA NU0VA 0FFENSIVA
ITALIANA IN CARNIA
Gli Austriaci Costretti a Ripie-
gare su Moos e le Loro
Difese Distrutte
II genernle Cadorna hn nnnunclato che
le truppe It-llane operantl ntlla zona dl
Monte Croce. dl Padola hanno ttaccato
e battuto gll austriaci, costrlngendoll a
rltlrursi In dlrezlone dl Moos, nella valle
del Sexten. Moos si trova alia conftu
enza del Sexten e del torrente Fischel e
ad nppena un palo dl chllometrl dallo
sbarramento di Sexten, cho chlude la
strada cho porta ad Innlchen.
I generate Cadorna ha annunclato pure
che I'artlellerla Itallana ha battuto e
dlstrutto opere dl fortltlcailone austrlache
su altri punti del front della Carnla. 11
comunlcato ufllclale non dice quail sono
questl "altrl puntl" dove I cannonl Italian!
hanno rlpresa la oro vlolenta attlvlta',
me e' facile Indovlnare che si tratta
prlncipalmente della valle del Itlenz,
quella che porta a Toblach, dove da alcunl
mesl gll Italian! erano gluntl fino agll
accessl alia opere fortlflcate dl Landro
ed avevano anche distrutte le difese dl
Schluderbach cho potevano essere con
siderate come la opere avanzate del
gruppo dl Landro.
(Leggere In 15a paglna le ultimo e piu'
dettagllate notizie sulla guerre, in
ttallano.)
FIVE BURN TO DEATH
Father Fatally .Seared While Trying
to Save Children
NEW MARTINSVILLE. Va., Jan. 8.
Four children of Mr. and 'Mrs. John Mor
gan were burned to death ,and Mr. Mor
gan received fatal burns in rescuing a
fifth from an upper room today.
The upper rooms, In which the Ave chil
dren were sleeping, were cut oft by tb
flames.
COLDEST NIGHT OF WINTER
Weather Bureau Says Mercury Will
Fall to 13 in City nnd Lower
in Suburbs
Tonight will be the coldest of the win
ter. The Weather Bureau officials predict
thnt the thermometer will drop to 13 de
grees In tho city, with 4 or 5 degrees
lower In the suburbs. Moreover, nil the
signs Indicate thnt the frigid weather will
continue for several elnys,
Tho prediction Is based on the extmoN
dlnary conditions obtaining In the Middle
West nt tho present time. That region
awoke to the coldest temperature of the
year today. At 7 a. m. In Chicago tho
thermometer registered degrees above
zero with the mercury still going down.
CHICAGO, Jnn. 6. A cold wnve which
wns felt yesterday In the north nnd north
west moved to the cast today with undi
minished Intensity. Keeping to tho north
of the Great Lakes, below zero temper
atures were maintained over Mlnnesotn,
the Dakotns, Montana, Wisconsin, Mich
Ignn nnd portions of Canada, the coldest
place on the continent being White River,
Ont., where 40 below wns recorded. Tem
peratures from 12 to 26 below were regis
tered nt several places In Montnnn, Min
nesota, tho Dakotas and other northern
States.
In Its progress eastward the storm has
been nttended by rnln and snow, with
gales nt several places on the Lower
Lakes.
TEN PER CENT WAGE INCREASE
GRANTED STEEL WORKMEN
Chairman Gary Announces Plan to
Share Prosperity
NEW YORK, Jun. 8. Increase. In wages
of nil United States Steel Corporation
workers was announced by Chnlrmnu E,
H. Gray this afternoon. The statement
follows:
"In view of the prosperous conditions
now prevailing It was voted nt a meeting
of the presidents of Iron and steel com
panies held today to recommend that
there should be made adjustments of tho
wage rate to take effect February 1, nnd
at a meeting of the Finance Committee It
wns decldfd to adopt the recommendation
of tho presidents. It Is proposed to in
crease the rates of common labor about
10 per cent.
"As to other departments Increases will
be equitably proportioned. Adjustment In
wage rates In our mining companies Is
now under consideration."
PEACE ARK "PRESS AGENT
PROJECT," SAYS JANE ADDAMS
Idea Was Mmc. Schwimmer's, Says
Chicago Publicist
CHICAGO, Jnn. 0." "Henry Ford's
pence ship was tho Idea of Mme. Roslka
Schwlmmcr," said Jane Addams In an
Interview.
"Mr. Ford knows the value of pub
licity. His whole European pilgrimage
wns a vast press agent project In the In
terest of peace.
"No one can doubt his sincerity, nor
his devotion to tho cause. He withdrew
S4O.0O0.O0O from certain banks because
4h,f oanedimoneyvUi,tho4AlH- for wan.
"But the pcaco ship was not sponsored
by the Women's Peace Party. It was
an Individual enterprise.
"Tho women's plan Is to establish a
clearing house for peaco sentiment. If
there were a clearing house through
which tho manlfe8tees of peace groups,
parties and even Individuals might find
publication, it would soon develop a
sympathetic movement in all countries.
"Tho peace ship brought needed pub
licity. It put Itself on the front pages
of the papers In all countries. That is
certain to result In great benefit."
ACTOR DIES SUDDENLY
Hnrrison Steadman, of the "On Trial"
Company, Succumbs to
Heart Disease
Harrison Steadman. of Cleveland, a
member of the cast of "On Trial," now
playing at the Garrlck Theatre, died sud
denly today nt the St. Francis Hotel,
whero he was staying. Heart disease
caused his death,
Mr. Steadman played tho part of her
father (deceased) In "On Trial," appear
ing In the third act of the play. He was
45 years old. Mr. Steadman had been an
actor for many years. He Is survived by
a widow.
Although ho was stricken suddenly to
day, he had been ailing for many weeks,
and tho management was therefore pre
pared to fill his 'place. The body will be
sent to Cleveland.
LEAGUE ISLAND CALLED
SUPERIOR TO N.Y. YARD
Admiral Stanford Says It Is
Better Equipped to Repair
Ships in Time of War
Bu a Staff Garrttoondtnt
WASHINGTON, Jan. .-That the Phlla.
delphlu Navy Yard Is In much better
shape to repair battleships In time of war
than the Brooklyn Navy Yard and others
along the Atlantic coast, was the testi
mony ot Admiral Stanford, chief of the
Bureau of Yards and Docks, when he ap
peared beforo the House Naval Affairs
Committee today, while making a whole
sale attack on the condition of the east
coast navy yards.
Representative Browning, of N,ew Jer
sey, one of the Republican members of
the committee, asked the Admiral whether
the channel to the Philadelphia yard was
not deep enough and open for the expe
ditious handling of battleships. He re
plied that It was.
The fact that a serious condition exists
at the Brooklyn yard which might render
it virtually useless for docking and re
pairing battleships of the first class In
time of war, has been called to the at
tention of Congress by Secretary of the
Navy Daniels, as well as Admiral Stan
ford. It became known today that Secretary
Daniels has written a letter to Speaker
Clark and Vice President Marshall, In
which he urges Immediate action to cor
rect the "menace" which exists at Brook
lyn. The trouble Is due to poor ap
proaches tq the yard.
'There Is not sufficient water In tho
ship channels," Secretary Daniels wrote,
"to Insure the entering or leaving of the
first-class battleships at all times. At
present only one battleship can be han
dled per day, and then only provided the
water conditions are normal. It the winds
are such as to blow the water out of
New York Bay, then the depth of water
In the approach channel ' not sufficient
to navlzato safely a. Urge ship."
CROWN OF LIGHT
NIGHTLY ON CITY
HALL, GREAT 'AD'
Evening Ledger's Scheme
Warmly Approved by
Electric Chief
COST WOULD BE SMALL
McLaughlin Takes Up Details
of Plan to Submit to Di
rector and Mayor
Citu Hall Illumination
Would Make City of Glory
The Evening Ledcek suggests
nn illumination of City Hall every
night in the year.
Suggestion wins tho emphatic
npproval of James F. McLaughlin,
Cluef of the Electricnl Bureau.
It would be a wonderful adver
tisement, he says.
He believes in lighting Billy
Penn in a way to make every
visitor remember Billy always.
Every side of the' City Hall
would blaze out a welcome in all
directions.
Cost would be nominal.
"It is fine! It is splendid!" is
the way Chief McLaughlin sums
it up.
Every New Year's Eve the thousands
of Phlladelphlnns who come downtown to
eclobrnto tho birth ot tho new year nto
struck with the wonder and the beauty
of City Hall In Its Illumination.
That Illumination, upon suggestion by
the KvENtNci LcnntSR, Is In a fnlr way to
becomo a nightly nffalr.
Tho new chief of the Kleclilcal Bu
reau, James F. McLaughlin, fell In with
tho Idea as soon as It was suggested to
him today, nnd Is going to work out a
plan In full detail and then present It to
his Immediate BUiWior, Director of Pub
lic Safety William H. Wilson, nnd then
take It up with Mayor Smith.
"That's a fine Idea," said Chief Mc
Laughlin, when an EvcNma Leihier rep
resentative broached tho subject. "Thnt
certainly Is a tine Idea," nnd he clenched
his fist nnd struck out In his pungnaclotis
way na It to fight already any ono who
would oppose tho plan.
He became enthusiastic.
"What nn advertisement for the city
thnt would be," ho said. "Why, wo could
do oven hotter than tho New Year's Illu
mination. Wo could light up this City
Hall In a wny that would shout out n
greeting to tho North nnd South and Enst
nnd West: wo could Just make It ring
with light, and It would bo a treat and
a delight to bcb It,
"Tho whole central part of tho city
would look different. It would give our
downtown a featuro so distinctive that
Philadelphia would bo talked about In tho
whole United States.
"Just think what a grand spectacle we
could make of Billy Penn by enveloping
him In n shower of light that would burn
as a whlto attraction for miles and miles
around."
"But how about the cost of all this,
chief?" Mr. McLaughlin was asked.
He waved away the question, deprecat
ingly. "Merely nominal, merely nominal," ho
answered.
"We've got everything right hero In
the City Hnll. Tho upkeep In that ad
ditional lighting would amount to almost
nothing In the long run. The additional
power used would not be an appreciable
Item of expense. Wo don't pay anybody
for the electricity wo uso hero In the City
Hall. Wo furnish our own power. Tho
plant Is all here.
"There Is absolutely everything to be
Bald In fnvor of tho continual Illumin
ation and nothing to be said against It.
It's a splendid Idea. It's the best Idea
I've heard.
"Other cities brag ab-mt their features
of Illumination which tho business men
contribute. In New York It's the wonder
ful lighting effects of tho advertising
signs on Broadway you hear about; the
business advertisements and the theatres
and cafes. In Chicago It's the same on
State and Randolph streets. But here wo
could nave something bigger nnd finer,
and the whole city could tako a pride In
It because it would belong to tho city.
"We could make It better, too, than wo
do on New Year's Eve. There we give
Continued on I'uce Tnu, Column Six
PEACE VAN PREPARES
TO MOVE ON GERMANY
Ford Party Leaves Copenhagen.
Mustn't See Scantily
Clad Dancers
COPENHAGEN, Jan. 6. Tomorrow is
"get-away" day for the Ford peace pil
grims, and all members of the expedition
set about their packing today.
To comply with the regulations fixed
by the German Government in granting
permission to the pacifists to travel
through Germany to The Hague, the dele,
gates removed from their baggage all
books, letters, cards; in fuct everything
(hat might causo trouble If tho baggage
were examined.
Several of the travelers have taken volu.
mlnous notes on the trip. To savo these
they decided to pack up the documents
and send them to tho United States by
mall. Some who were In doubt shipped
back to the United States a considerable
portion ot their traveling equipment, tak
ing with them only enough to last them
to The Hague.
Because some airily clad "classic" danc
ers were on the program the peace party
will not attend a reception arranged by
the local 'society ot Esperanttsts, It was
announced today.
Had the matter been put to a vote tho
Invitation probably would have been ac
cepted by an overwhelming majority. But
the Itev. Jenkln Lloyd, Jones and other
members of the steering committee de
cided classic dances not strictly symbolical
ot the movement for peace.
The Danish delegation to The Hague
peace conference Is nearly complete. Svcn
Lange, novelist: Olaf Forchliammer, pres
ident of the Copenhagen Peace Society,
and Commodore Blume, Arctic explorer,
a e the most prominent ptitonapes,
Several American delegates, now thor
oughly ! omeslck. are preparing to leave
the part; and aall direct from Copenhagen
for home.
QUICK
" SIEGE LAW TO BE PROCLAIMED IN 'ATHENS
PARIS, Jan. C The Petit Paiislen leauis ftom a private source
that a. state of siege, probably will be proclaimed at Athens.
ITALIAN LINER ARMVES5 ARMED AGAINST TJ-BOATS
NEW YORK, Jan. G.The Italian Unci' Giuseppe Veidi arrived
today from Naples with two four-iuch guns mounted on deck to pro
tect her from aubiuariues.
WILSON NAMES POLICE TRIAL BOARD
Director Wilson, of the Department of Public Snfcty, announced today
the personnel of the Police Trlnl Ilonrd of Inquiry which will sit during- tho
Smith ntlmlnlstratlon. Captnln George S. Tempest, president of tho old board,
nnd Lieutenant Dlnlockcr, of the 11th nnd Winter Htreots station, retain their
old places. Tho position of Cnptnln Davis, who is now Assistant Director of
Public Safety, Is filled by Lieutenant David Bennet, of the 20th nnd Federal
BtrcetB station. Llcutrnnnt John Ulsblne, of tho C5th nnd Pino streets station,
wns appointed alternate.
LINER ELUDES SUBMARINE AFTER ALL-NIGHT CHASE
MARSEILLES. .Tun. 6. The French steamship Knrnnlc, carrying 250 pas
sengers, wna phased nil night In tho Mediterranean by n stibmnrlne, but eluded
the submersible find nrrtved here today. Sho brought survivors of the British
steamers Mlitdleton nnd Abelln, Biilimnrlno victims. Tho submarine abandoned
j the rhnso nt dawn today. When the
pnHBcngcrs were nystorlcnl from rrlght.
MAYOR SMITH, UNAFRAID, DISMISSES BODYGUARD
"I havo no need for a bodyguard," snld Mayor Thomas B. Smith today
in explnlnlnjr his dismissal of Frank Evcrly, the six-foot policeman, who dogged
the now Mayor's Btcps during the first two days In olllcc. Evcrly was returned
today to his former post nt tho corner
said he would not employ a gunrd durlnfr his term In office.
TAUBE DROPS BOMBS ON FRENCH NAVAL BASE
BOULOGNE. Jnn. C. For nearly an hour today a German aviator in
In a Taubo machine defied death high in tho nlr nbovo Boulogne. Ho dropped
bIx bombs, but because of the llro concentrated upon his machine by tho
antl -aircraft guns ho was unable to damage any important establishment.
After letting' three bombs fall the German flew enstwnrd as if abandoning
his attnek, but suddenly swerved nnd returned. Anticipating' such a maneuver,
tho gunners nnd remained nt their posts, and tho aviator was met with
another volley. Nevertheless, ho dropped three moro bombs beforo ho finally
departed.
Tho fifth missile struck a small house, completely wrecking" It and Injur
ing four persons, who had taken refuge in tho cellar.
RUSSIAN CONSUL GETS CALL FOR RESERVES
William R. Tucker, Russian Consul In Philadelphia, announced today that
the Russian Imperial Government had ordered him to call for tho return to
Russia of all reserves tn the first class This is tho first time Russia has callod
for reserves from thl3 cbuntry: v " - - ..
i I '
ROOSEVELT NOT A CANDIDATE, SAYS GIFFORD PINCHOT
"It is my understanding thnt Theodoro Roosevelt is averse to being a
cnndldnto In tho next presidential election." Such wns tho opinion expressed
by .Glfford PInchot In rcgnrd to tho possibility of Mr. Roosevelt belnp; again
a candidate of n third party. .
Mr. Pinchot, who a year ago wns Progressive candidate for United States
Senntor, said that Pennsjlvniita would send a delegation to the Progressiva
Natlonnl Convention.
"Tho Washington party In Pennsylvania will send a full set of delegates
to the National Progressive Convention of the Progressive party," Mr.
PInchot snld.
COLONEL HOUSE REACHES LONDON
LONDON, Jan. G. Colonel E. M. House, confidential envoy of President
Wilson, arrived hero today nnd took lirenkfnst nt tho Rltz with Ambassador
Page. Ho will remain hero a fortnight, proceeding then to France.
NEW FREIGHT RATES NOT JUSTIFIED, SAY PACKERS
WASHINGTON, Jan. C. A rehearing of the Eastern live stock case by tho
Interstate Commerce Commission was asked by the Cudnhy Packing Company
today. The company alleges Increases granted the railroads effective a week
from today are not justified.
ASK WILSON TO BACK SAN ANTONIO EXPOSITION
WASHINGTON. Jan. 0. President Wilson today wns urged to lend the
moral support of tho Government to a Pan-American Exposition, which will
bo held in San Antonio, Tex., in 1918. A delegation of a dozen piomlnent San
Antonlans, headed by Senntor Sheplmrd and Representative Slaton, of
Texas, called on the President.
BRITAIN FEARS REPRISALS FOR BARALONG "OUTRAGE"
LONDON, Jan. 6. Tho belief Is expressed In official circles hero that the
next step in tho Baralong controversy will be a reprisal by Germany, which la
expected to tako tho form of tho shooting of a number of English officers and
men prisoners, equaling the number of German submarine officers and men lost
when tho submarine was sunk by the Baralong.
AUSTRIA OFFERED PEACE TO ITALY, PARIS HEARS
PARIS, Jan. 6. Germany, In the name of Austria, offered to make peaoo
with Italy at the time when the latter prepared to tign the London pact of the
Entente Allies against separate action in making peace, says tho Petit Journal.
Austria, declares tho newspaper, proposed to cedo to Italy tho Italian Trentlno
and the region now occupied by tho Italian forcos on the Isonza and on the
Carso Plauteau, with Gorlzla and Grado to tho south. Albania was to contlnuti
autonomous, Italy retaining Avlona with the hinterland. In addition, conces
sions are declared to have been promised In Asia Minor and the free and peace
able enjoyment by Italy of hr African colonies, Tripoli, Maasowah and Somallland
guaranteed. '
BRITISH SEIZE VON PAPEN'S PRIVATE PAPERS
LONDON, Jan. 6. Captain Frani von Papen, the recalled German military
attache at Washington, has telegraphed from Falmouth, where, he arrived oa ln
Noordam, to the American Embassy here asking it to communlcato with the
German Ambassador In Washington to protest to the State Department because
the British authorities, he declared, opened his private papers at Falmouth,
BANDITS HOLD UP SOUTHERN PACIFIC TRAIN
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., Jan. 6.-Three men boarded a Southern Pacific trarn
at the station here last night, held up a mail clerk and took aU the registered
mail.
ARMED GERMAN BOAT SURRENDERS IN AFRICA
LONDON, Jan. 6. The Gorman armed steamboat Kingani surrendered on
December 26 to the British naval expedition on Lake Tanganyika, in Central
Africa, It was announced, in an offiekil statajnant. , "The aatlon lasted JO min
utes." adds the statement. "All the Germaolljeers wpre killed and" the steam
boat, despite Us sinking condition, was brought into port"
FRENCH BLOW UP FOE'S AMMUNITION DEPOTS
PARIS. Jon. 6. French artillery blew up German aromuniuoo depots In
the Champagne region and wrecked enemy works northwest of Vallly, the
"War Office reports.
NEWS
Karnok put Into Marseilles many of tho
of Cth nnd Market streets. Tho Mayor
i
)
ii
"i
i A
6
W
