7
SAVING THE COAL MINERS.
Notable change in mining communities and
reduction in fatalities follow campaign
to teach right living. Read the story
IN NEXT SUNDAY'S SUN.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Rain to-day; colder to-night and
to-morrow.
V Hlt-hest temnerature veaterrlav. cK tntvr.i n
D , S . . ., .
1 Detailed weather, mall and marina reports on pago 17.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 128.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 1916. CopUrtBht. 1916, b the Sun Printing ami PubMMng AttoclaUon.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
PROSPERITY
NEEDS NURSING,
GARY ASSERTS
(31 eel Corporation Heidi
Points to Dangers at
War's Close.
WANTS TARIFF THAT
REALLY PltOTECTS
Iron and Steel, Even Char
ity, Show Good Times
Sees Early Peace.
A note of caution regarding overex-
pxnalon In flnunco and Industry, nndjthe most enjoyable afternoons of his
n earnest plea for n tariff read-, life yesterday. He lunched at the Hotel
Juntment which will prevent the dumping;
of cheaply manufactured Roods In this
country after the wnr, wcr tho two
l.illclit I.ietors urouiiui iei,"ij
Utement Issued by Judge Elbert 11. 1
Gary, clialrman of the United States '
Reel' Corporation, jesterday.
Judse Gary wan extremely optimistic i
itrardln present conditions, stating
h.,t the steel mills were running; to
tupaclty and that the demand for steel I
-a so (treat that prices could easily be
advanced hinting that they might be.
He added that the present eteel bookings
were gi tally In excess of tho production,
shich Is larger than eer before.
The future, however, he pointed out,
li neyond the power of man to fathom
with any certainty. It may be dark and
desperate, and It certainly will be In
l'urnne when the war Is over. This Is
tne -'le.itest country In the world, hu . Pr
si id, with the greatest opportunities, and written by Henry Heuterdahl, the ma
i. may pioperty bo hopeful and con- rjn8 Brt5t and expert In army and navy
telclit If necessary steps to protect It are . , problems, was ringlngly Indorsed
taken Such steps can be achieved only .'. . , . , ,.,
through proper Governmental assistance. , by the Colonel and unanimously adopted
tu private enterprise, which In its turn by the advisory board.
uui appreciate and reciprocate.
.lu due l.nr)'. Stu teliirlit.
I' nakliirf his statement Judge Oary,,ow,,:
ia i tn.it lie had been ivquesttd to state
t.-i .ml. Hons and prospects relating to
jti and steel Industry as they now i
iq .ar and to forecast the future. Judge necessary number of scouts, dtstroy
lia . .-a nl: I trs and seagoing submarines should
will be admitted by all munufac-
tu i-.t ui throe ptoducts there ia nu rea-
f'M- complaint at present as to the ,
w.jme or urgency of the demand, nor
in must cases the prices received, not
w "ts.aiullug costs of production have
b-.ui l.i.ger during the Inst few years
he , u Increase In wage, fielght
vin 4c. The rate of production at
t .iiit In the United States Is about
nu, iirm i.m, i.r i,u- irnn uml about I
. " no tons uf steel Ingots per an-
ra This comp.ucB with a rate or rj,-
till' uii'i tuns of pig Iron and lb.ooo.ooo
f Me! Iimols one year ayo und
I. iHvJOO tons of pig Iron and Ij.oOO.OOO
ti f tecI ingots at hlith water mark
In i i.' jear l'.'U tor PU Iron and lSTJ
Ktirnaces and mills are running at
f j I apaclty and it Is impossible to
upply fully tlie demand for prompt de
I iery Prices could easily be materially
'lancoM and perhaps will tie, though
l kelieNe as to some of the commodities,
' leait, they are high enough. It Is
I. ii certain they can be controlled for
tu rtasou that the requirements or pur
f and the offers they nuke tlx
U nr.-es to a large extent. The book-
li its ate considerably in excess of pro
i!u. Hun, which Is larger than ever bu
I"i Apparently about 73 per cent, of
tlie Kales Is for domestic consumption
md the balance for foreign use. directly
c indirectly. Tho Influence of the ex
I trt sales upon domestic sales I do not
t i-rtake to say Tlic ramifications, the
oi -lertlons and the Inllueuces are com
H iteil and they are uncertain,
,n.u - lltl,.n. n.rliiliilni. I.t llila In.
diiitr) rellect, mure or le. thoie of
llier linen, and prrhapi ure an lml. I
riitlun of the general lluatlon. cer-1
liilnl) Oiere are ttldenres. which ninniit I
fii.nnalily be (Uftlonnl, iif great proi-
irllj. Tliej are neen In Hie hanks, the 1
llre. the shops, the rallrnuil nguren, j
Ihe Initelo, places of amunempnl, und,
ml the leant Important, the ennrmoui .
hiiii cIipd to rharltalile and relief de-
Lin nj.. '
'
( ondnuniice a llnrstlnn.
li is not my purpose to discuss the
r
"lis for tlu.su most satisfactory con-
' "His, They exist; and It now seems
iiri?,lv imrm imrsulves our trad-
! V'':t!:!,L1,r7rlv;;r"an.ru,'.oUn t'hos'e
us who only attempt to follow and 1
t .otect our Interests as we properly .
ti . v i
.-Kaiilliig Iho future and Ihe dangers
r ' li may exist and the need of caution,
J'i 'ee i iary Mild
vl,.. there Is possible danger ahead. 1
f
l.
t ,
h. oinotlve engineer Is illrectert by .
1 iles formal Instructions and signs ,
cid wi.h caution, and sometimes
'Mi. look and listen.' Wo may draw
...alngy. I would oner words of 1
' " We are proceeding at a rapid 1
Tiw.r.. i irri ..viuitislnn in nr,..
1 fear there Is great inllallon.
wr ihe clrcumstaiK'es surrounuing
' am ial and Industrial woi Id are1
. .r and not Justllled There will ,
s and Jolts when eyes are opened
1 'h.nxx become normal. We ought I
1 ponder, reason We shall be '
betn-r fi- II. Legitimate enter- 1
- and iirourcss will he benefited If ,
! all the signs, consider Ihe past
1 teiiert upon the future.
it of the future? Who can say
' y feeling of certainty? It may
1 " dark and desperate. It will
' ". i In llurope and we In America
' 1 f'l tlic effects to a greater or
' extent. I am referring now only
1 ' nii'iMilc features. The destruction
li'int upon blllluiis of piopeity In
" iMintry must necessarily alTcct In
t degieo all other iiimitrlCH, The
n.f conilltl'ins In the United States
1 1' ami shoulil be good In tho long
fd.ie, with the usual Interruptions, If
' at. fully alive to our opportunities.
I nrr l.nrl I'fiir. ,
"! 'ii-lleve the uarH of Kurope will not
mi long protracted as, many men pre-
Tina opinion is based principally
'mi grounds
In the Urn place. It seems apparent
I 'Hu, if any, liencflt to any bclllger-
' mntry or to the world at largs
cii rtiult from the war except und un-
r
Conlluucd on Bizth Page,
Roosevelt Demands 48
Dreadnoughts and Battle
Cruisers to Protect U. S.
8
Standing; Army of 245,000
and 2,000,000 Reserves
Also Will Be Asked.
AMERICAN DEFENCE
SOCIETY ON RECORD
Colonel Is the Lending
Spirit at Organization's
Luncheon.
Col. Theodore Hoosevelt had one of
Blltmore with the twenty-two other mem
bers of the advisory board of tho Amer
ican Defence Society, some friends of
lone standing; and some newly made, but
every one of them heartily In accord
with him as to Just what details of army
" navy upbuilding; should .constitute
American policy of adequate
defence.
As usual, the Colonel was the dom-
Inatfn - r, Impelling; Influence at the gath
erlng the life of the party. With his
Irrepressible vitality and burning; enthu
siasm and knack of strong; speech, he
Rave- the bin; shove to the defence so- J
clety's carefully thought out programme,
a programme that Is to be put before
the people by liberal expenditure for
publicity and by all of the personal In
fluence possessed by the many promi
nent men In the society's councils. That
programme, as outlined In a resolution
Demands of Defence Society.
The programm"" r;as presented as fol
We must have a strong navy fully
manned, of forty-eight dreadnoughts
and battle cruisers In proportion. The
balance the capital fleet; also auxll-
larles. colliers, repair ships, tenders
and other necessary craft. Hhlpt
should be laid down Immrdlately.
We must have a standing army of
200,000 men and .,000 officers bucked
by a national force of citizens trained
In arms under a universal and obliga
tor)' system. This body should to of
no less strength than z.uuo.uuu nieii.
fullv enulDDed and with a large
serve supply of artillery and ummunl-
uon.
This shall be America's Insurance
against war. against Invasion, against
a foreign flag over Washington a
force of defence which makes the
Monroe Doctrine a living fact. And
this shall be the true meaning of pre
paredness. Half measures are useless
nnd a waste of money.
In support of this resolution. with
emphasis upon the necessity fur nbllgn- 1
tory military training to pioduce as
rapidly as possible a thoroughly trained
citizen army of 2.000.000. Col. Itooscvclt i
spoke unreservedly. Others at the lunch- I
eon who backed up me t omiiei aim
a(?ree(j lnat .ir, Heulerdahl's programme
was what our national suuauoii nm
for, were Truman II. Newberry. ex-Sec-reary
of the Navy: Ir. David Jayne
Hill, C. H. Thompson. Gushing Stetson,
J. Flnvel Hubbard and George P.
Sweeney,
Srcrcey Had Ilren Orilereit.
The luncheon was private and except
for the news contained in the Heuterdahl
reholutlon and a few generalises very
little was supposed to be made public,
Iteporters who went to the ''"more
early in me annumm ri,,n .w.. ,
room at the luncheon and nterestlng
speeches plumped directly Into their
ours were kept at a distance, out of
sight and sound, until the luncheon was1
over and most of the luuchers had tip- ,
toed modestly away. I'hlllp J, Roosc-
velt, the Colonel's nephew, anil others
of the advisory board explained that
secrecy had been ordered because the
meeting at bottom was strictly n busl-
.).. .liVi ,1s,mishIiiii nf the
l""n;?' , , HO.-,v' ,rPas.
ury nnd the exact source of these con-
I
'er. that not a single icni or tne
110.000 the sn.li ,y now has In bank has
been c,,ntrlbu,7b,h
concern connected with the manufacture
or saie 01 iiiuiiiiu'ii.-'
announcement made. "The fund Is made
up and -will be supported by contrlbu
linns from persons who believe as we
do that the time has come Jo slop
sniiiyMiuiij nm "" ' . i .1
and to adopt a sensible and patrlotlo
programme.
When the Colonel, gleeful, merry.
fairly ramping with cheerfulness came
at a quick step out of the meeting he
whs naturaly bombarded Instantly with
questions as to what ho had said In;
111s speecn iuiiiiiih . .-..-."...
"Come on. Colonel, tell us what jou
said," suggested the reporters.
"Hoys," he said, "I feel as Senator
l'ettlgrew did when he said. 'I've Just got
to be reticent about that speech. I'll
bet you my bottom dollar that none of
It gts published,' "
"Did It have any political significance
the meeting, thut is,
.VolhlliK I'nlltlral, Colonel.
"Of course not, How could It have
with all of these men present?" And
the Colonel's hand waved toward a
group of men representing llejiuhllcan,
Democratic and Progressive opinion,
"No, I can't say a word nlmul politic
not a word. It's useless to question
ine, boys. My Hps are sealed. Wheie's
my hat? This Isn't my hat. It's Hill
Jtoosevelt's hat. If a perfectly proper
kind of hat I a big, black one very Ilk.)
his own, but It Isn't my hat. This Is
overcoat necaosw 111 u iiucuri is me
, ', f the United Service Institute,
He laughed heartily and made for tho
elovator with Just the kind of twinkle
In his eye that a man reyeala when he
Ih up to Homethlng particularly Inter
("tit tllfi
DfUplle the Colonel's retlcenoe and the
appaient unwllllnn "f the members
of the advisory board to disclose just
what was said at the preparedneaa lunefh
eon, what was vouched for by on of
jilhllPW ...L..i... 1 1 il
Copjniht American Pre AsioHatlon.
Dr. David Jayne Hill.
New president of the advisory board
01 tne American ueience society. 1
the prominent membern as nn accurate
summary of his speech was obtained
without much travail. Col. Roosevelt
made his 'ech in nominating Dr.
David Jayne Jllll na president of the
advisor- Nard. 1
"Suffrage," he said, "means above all
the obligation to defend one's country. I
If v.o can get Vincent Astor and the 1
man from Mulberry street or from
Hoosexelt Mrect, the worst street In the
city under 11 dog tent In training for '
military scrvlco It will be good for both
of them. It would mean greater cohe
sion and each man would learn Mjme
thlng from the other and both would
be better off,
"It ts a fallacy to depend on 0l11n
teers In tlmo of war. You would laugh
at any sudh pronunclamento as they
have been making In Knglaud, such as
'Be a ort and Join the army." Just a
ou would laugh at any one who would
nay, 'He a sort and pay jour taxes.' 1
The thing can't be looked at In that:
way. It's a matter of duty, a caj-e of
must.
oldler .Wed tone Training;.
"No volunteer woldler is worth any-1
thing until he Is perfectly trained. 1 was '
In the National Ouard myself for three
ears and 1 was no belter soldier than
anybody else. If I had been In a llfitit
I would not haie made a better tight
than any of the members of the Na
tional liuard at Santiago.
"We, cannot have a real National
(luaril except under Tederal control, It
must be made what the name Implies,
a national force Instead of a State foice.
The proposed continental army Is a fal
lacy, a makeshift and n ueles rival
of the National Cu.ird."
Here the Colonel turned toward a
criticism of the Wilson Administration's
policy of forblddlr.g army and navy olll
lers to filk publicly in preparedness
needs.
"This society." rtii.l Col, ltnosevelt.
"must emphasliB tho service opinion, It
In a pity to gag experts of the army and
navy who have received a lifetime educa
tion nnd who ore qualified to be the pub
lic's advisers."
None of the member of the advisory
brtird could recall that the Colonel had
anything to say about the crisis with
Austria .it the general tightness of rilu
tlons with the Teutonic allies, or that he
especially took occasion U ridicule the
Wilson policy of preparedness.
Must llne t'nineil Anirrlrn.
He ended his speech with this declara
tion :
"We mut have 'a unified America.
Persons who have come to this country
to Mud security and happiness should
have loft everything 'behind them when
they became Americans!"
One of the especially Interesting reve
latlons an to the trend of discussion at
the luncheon was tho statement of one of
the best known men of the company that
everybody who dlscusspj preparedness
against possiuie enemies had in mlml
prep.ireilies against Cermany anil
Japan.
That was accepted as a matter of
course, this man stated,
Dr. Hill, the new president of the ad
visory board, said after the meeting that
the American Defence Society did not
purpose to set up for rivalry with other
preparedness organizations. Nn specific
International situations had been dl
cusseil lit the luncheon. No definite pro
gramme of action by ih society had
been worked out, but the beginning had
been mado with the first definite state
ment of what preparedness should actu
ally consist of.
Cnlln It First Definite Plnn,
"For the flrM time,' said Henrv Hen-
lerdahl, "a really definite statement has 1
been made as to what must constitute I
adequate preparedness. The resolution I
unanimously adopted u'.is based upon
the views of the fervlce."
Those who sat with Col, Itonsevelt and
Dr. Hill and who participated In the
table talk and hpecchmaklng were Tru
man H, Newberry, Capt. Laurence Angel,
It. H. A, retired; Henry IteuteriHihl,
Lee De Forest, Itlchard S. Knimet, C S.
Thompson, Paul Thompson, C. Wanl
Crampton, Philip J, Roosevelt. W. If.
Starrett, Capt. Richard Stockton, Jr., of 1
fh .Tfrsv Vittlnnol ,,... I. .11 '
,,.,, .ilium)
Street, Cleveland Moffett, rushing Stet
son, J, Flavel Hubbard, Leslie J. Tomp
kins, Hudson Maxim, Charles Colt,
tlenrgo V. Sweeney and Divlnlu iin.
ridge. Henry (',. qulnby. who was to!
nave been tne nost, was unable to at
tend because he had to go suddenly to
Albany on legal business.
T. R. CANCELS CHICAO0 TATaK.
Will MpcnU In Philadelphia Jnn, 20
and tin to llrrniiiiln h, 15,
Col, Roosevelt has cancelled the ten
tative engagement which ho had to speak
at a Lincoln's lllrlhday c leluntlou n
Chicago on February 12, Ills next np
pearnnco on the rostrum Is to he In Phil
adelphia on January 20, when ho will
addresi the National Americanization
Committee. On February J 5, accom
panied by Mrs. Roosevelt, the Colonel
will start for llermuda and the West
Indies, lie will return about April 1,
somewhat earlier than his most recent
plan called for,
Whether or not Col, Roosevelt will be
In Chicago ou June 7, when the Republi
can national convention la called, Is problematical.
WILSON U BOAT
POLICY FLAYED
IN THE SENATE
Strong Sentiment Shown to
Keep Americans Off
Belligerent Ships.
TALK HEARD OF AN
EMBARGO OX ARMS
Washington, Jan. 5. President Wil
son's effort to keep the submarine Is
sue out of the dcliales In Conors. for
the present lias fulled.
To-day the Senate plunged Into a
discussion of till subject with an aban
don that surprised the more conserva
tive member and that finally M Sena
tor Stone, chairman of the Foreign no
tations Committee, to cut off tho debate
with a call for an executive session
Th riehatn In the. Senate disclosed a 1
surprlslnKlJ stronK sentiment In favor t"f'r ". It-lf nn army of occu
.. . .in .w -1 ht P o" of the 1 gh seas, both during and
of legislation curtailing the rights of 1 lC (l(
American citizens to travel the high "tiermany may take and occupy coun-
1 in r mi v.,, 1 trictt and exact month! v Indemnities as
.1,-un Ul. .r...fcwi..i . - ,
scls of uny other churacter
carry' munitions of war.
which .
t, ,ii.i ,,r ihls H.'iitlnient was
The disclosure of this juntlment was
the most Important development in tnu
submarine situation to-day and Is
likely to be rellected In the AdmlnU-
trutloll'd handling of the case of the
l'erslu which was sunk with United
f.,i,.'c,msin Mi-NVelv nn Nuiril
tl .7 Mt-N,;e' " ""i r . u, .
The President ana -secretary Lansing
wero still marking time to-night on,1f ,n,,t hlghe-t atithorltle believe
this case. They ha not yet ob- U wilt be the declelve factor In this
talned Information r.tabllshlng tho i world struggle. t
fun, thin n Miilim.irlne mink the Persia
and until thl nnd the natl..n.illty of ,
the undersea boat are determined their
bunds will be tied.
(tucttloti of Armed I, liter.
No conclusion has been reached as
yet ou the .question whether this Gov
vrnment Is to regard a passenger liner ,
nrmeil ror derence as entitiett to im
tnunlty from attack without warning.
A definite stntid on this question will
not Is taken until It Is formally raised
by one of tho belligerents, and then It
Is likely to lead to extensive diplomatic
exchunges.
It has been known for some time
that there was considerable feeling in
bj'the Clilteil States In the submarine '
controversy that might lead this coun
try Into war. It was not expected,
however, that the feeling would llnd
expression so soon or so frankly,
The sentiment against American citi
zens endangering the peace of the coun
try by travelling on belligerent iner-
chant ships was further emphasized by I
two bills Introduced by Senator (lore of 1
. . . . .. r. .1 .
'K':'"om:-. ",,c. .,"'....'em"f
.Mlmlnistratlon supporter.
. .i....... hi i
mice of pas-ports to any citizen except
upon his making allldalts that he nil)
not travel ou a belligerent e1.
Illim tu Milpplnu.
The second bill prevents belligerent
ships from entering or cleirlug ports
of the l ulled States If they transport
ti.u 1
'
.rP"' I
American citizens as passengers.
1.111 ..I ...... .1.1 111.1,-1.1 I
IJIII HIIP ,.1'UIII ,I,IIIIUIII III iii.-ui ,1, 111,11,)
unv Amerienn ..I.,, ir.nelle.i ii,.. ,,i,.,,
,e , SnrJS,
formlt, wkh thVTeaW . 1
Ti sern,,l Mi ols ui for h?.e '.,.! '
This second bill goes still further and
forbids Americans from travelling on
American or vessels of neutral nations
which are engaged In carrying contra
bind of war and pisscngers at one and
the same time
Senator Gore Intioduced these bills
after he had conferred this morning
with William .1 llrjan, Yesterday
Hi'pri'scntatlve Stephens of Nebraska,
Mr, llrjnn's friend, Introduced a bill
of similar liupoit In the Home. It Is ap
parent lhat Col, llrynn and his friends
are nrenarlnir to niisli these meisnr.
with all the energy nt their command
nnd to-dny's developments Indlcatu they
will have support from quarters that '" r",,1 .' 1 """" -"i'- wum
usually are not eympatheilc with Mr..1""'1 1,1 ""W l;uri cargo for other
llrynn. allied ports. This siheine, the pnmo-
I ters think, would completely cripple the
ueslin of Pntrliillsiu.
Senator Junes of Washington started itrltlsli i-hlpplng Inteicsis.
Ihe trouble In the Senate when he leu! ' Hen. are some of the chief sugges
an editorial article from a newspnpr Hons which Mr Samuel has put befoie
which held ll to bo unpatriotic for in tne (Vi.inibera of C.immeice fur con
American clllzen to invito complication sldciallou at the conference:
b taking passage on n belllgetent shin I. Mrltaln and the Ilritlsh overseas do
Senator Nelson of Minnesota, itepitli- minions to join and Imlte comnieicial
llcan, Inquired whether Senator Junes representatives or the Kntente Poweis to
meant to say that It was unpatriotic meet in confireiKo for the purikisu of
for American Consul McNVely to h.v dlecusMlng the lisltlou of their trails
boarded Ihe Persia to travel to his post, j after the war.
lleforc Senator Jones could reply Sen-. 2. Shipping laws governing the llrlilsh
nlor Owen of Oklahoma, Heiiinc-.nt, In attitude toward the mercanilln marines
tfrposod with a suggestion that "If a" I of oilier Poweis to tie completely re
official of Ihe Government had no ollie: modelled.
way of getting to his pot tlie I'mied i ; No ship wholly or partly owned hv
Stales should send him on a warship." subjects of a I. He enemy Power shall be
This brought Senator O'Gormin to lis allowed to embark or disembark nasien-
reei,
"There was n neutial ship on which
Mr. .McNeely could have gone." said the!
Senator fiom New York. "He should !
have taken the Dutch ship suiting in th"
direction, us recommended by bin stipe,
rlors, but our citizens continue, to lakr j
these fiecuuss cn ini'is."
Then Senator llorah of Idaho, Itepub-
...... -. w, .riiiu -
llcan, another member of the Furelpii
lieiaiions laimmiure, jumped Into the
fray.
"Tho right of neutrals to travel m
safety on merchantmen, even of bellbr
erent countries. Is unquestioned and ,u
long an this Government did not wmr
against the prartlro ceitalnly It cannot
he called unpalrlotlc," said Mr. llorah
I'npstrlollc Too striniK,
Senator Owen returned to the debate
with a suggestion that unpatriotic was
"undoubtedly too strong a word" with
which to characterize Ihe act Inn of an
American citizen who travelled on a
belligerent merchantman,
"Hut it Is nlleged," continued Senator
Owen, "that Ihe Persia carried a
mounted gun capable of carrying many
miles, easily able to sink a submarine.
nr course n was anegeu iiaewise that
lh laiwltanla carried a gun, hut In that
case the German Government war misled
by a false allldavlt,"
Senator .Nelson ot .Minnesota remarked
Hint travel on a neutral shin did not
Insure safety, for "as ninny neutral ships
ns belligerents have been blown up. No
ship Is safe. One neutral ship was tor-
Continued" on Tlit rVipe.
'GERMAN TRADE
HOSTAGE FOR
GIANTWARBILL
Allies Plan to Keep Foes'.
Flag From Seas Till In
demnity Is Paid.
BRITISH FLEET TO
WATCH ALL MOVES
Spitial fablt lietpntch to Tun siv
London, Jnn. S. No Geiman Hag In
In iK-rmltted to lly on any ocean ; no
neutral vessel, owned In whole or In part
by Hermans, to be permitted to ply the
seven seas, until tin Indemnity which
the Allies will demand In pa lit In full
this Ii the authoritative plan of the
Ilritlsh Admiralty outlined to-day to Ihe
correspondent of Tint Sun.
'The llrlilsh navy,' to ue the word"
of the source of this news an ofllela)
lBh In Coverninent circles "will here-
- - Mt..l, l ,1..
1rt.n Imvy proposes to go a step fur-
ther. With the full consent of the Uov (
' '"rnI " n umir umu un
n,,.,,,,.-,, overse.v. trade, even after the
wnr J I1(K.surj.i lmili tin. peace terms
enunciated by Premier AsquUh are fill-
illled to the letter."
In a word. Oermanv may continue her
.occupation of territory In I'uroi-. but
the ,nWxl of '.nBlanda nc.1 power will
'besteadfastly exerted. The corrisiwndent
,. .. ..,... ..,. for
T0 FIQHT GERM AS TRADE
llrltUli Cbnnilirr of Commerce
Plan Urn H Arllon.
Srclal Corrttpowlfn'e to Tar Sr.
I.ONPON, Dec. .'2. With the object of
form'.ng nn offensive and defensive trade
anam of tne Untente -fowers against
the Central Powers and their allies an '
important conference or lintisn . nam-
bers of Commerce is soon to be new in
London.
The conference is to draw up a pro
gramme which will be submitted to the
C.overnment In the name of Ilritlsh com
merce lalnc down the lines on which
the proposed alliance Is to be naseo.
The proposal Is practically to form a
free trade union of the Kntente i-owers
?'':!"'!. :,ny.2?nyJ
trade with their territory by means
of a hlch tarllT wall so as to prevent
the Central Powers recovering their
commercial prosperity after the con
clusion of peace.
Premier Asqtilth Is understood to
favor the scheme, and with other mem
bers of the Covernment he s ulready
studying the broad lines of :i tiade
agreement with C.reat Hrltaln's allies, i
1. I.. ... a. nnlnlnx lit...
''. Y:"Z:..ZL" t"Z ,
otvupatloim uuRht to prevent the AUlt'i , nuMiisatlon of German I-aM -""ca. in .
( L-in,r ,..y.trr. ft. amxiM th.n thU.lnut mlontal POfiyiHlon. with the eC0i-
problem sWill bo carefully explored by i
expert Investigation,
The Chambers of Commerce want to j
get the scheme so far advanced that the i
j commercial alliance shall become ojiera-
tlve on the day th'.it pence Is signed.
Arthur Samuel, a member of the execu
tive council of Chambers pf Commerie of
the I'nlted Kingdom, has offered various i
suggestions for discussion at the confer-
enc. ill Januarv and these h.i been clr-
I . .. 1 1... 1 .... I -
eiic; in January and these h.le been clr
"", ''ou'"' M"-'of
,,,"t l,f,er xh conferen,e
the d-Ug.ites shall lay the concrete pro -
posils before the Prime .Minister In order
1 1 permit the Government t study them, i
The proposals of the Ilrltish Cham-1
her of Commerce contain several sug-
gesiious ui Kre.u iiiqiiiriaiit,' in ui I
i'nlted Stales, notably the proposed plan
to further the shipping Interests nf the
Allies. The Idea is to restrict the roast
wise trade of the Immense coastlines of
llrltalu, Frnuce, Italy, llussla and pre- ,
sumalily al" Japan to essols living
the Mags of the l.nlente Poweis and such
neutral nhlps as may care to compete
wm' l,"'m' " V1" ; 'omplete rxc usion of
1111 l"'rlllil11 """ Ausinan vesse s. ma
German mercantile marine ami prevent
It ever again liecomluu a menace to
sets at a Ihltlsh jsirt or at any of the
norls of the l.'ntcnle Powers. (This
clause Is aimed spcclallv at the German
transatlantic lines )
4. A duly of ten shillings per ton grosx
tonnage tu be placed on every ship wholly
r partly owned by subjects of a late
enemy rower enterln u port In the
Hrltlsli Umpire or a iort In dominions of
, " '
; the Kntente Powers, entering to rarnpe
P"rus oi ine sea exrrpieu
Tlie establishment on territory of
the Ilnlente Powers of brunches or ngen
cUs of shlpownlng 111 ins whose head
quarters or ownership ale German or
Aunrlan to be piohlblted,
INVITES 100 GIRLS TO PROPOSE.
Flushing; l.nvvyrr 1ni tiith-iip
I'll rill tu re line With Him,
"Nlnieen sixteen being leap year, Mr.
Clinton II, Smith, Jr., begs to uniiounce
that he Is still a bachelor.
"N. II. Ills antique furniture goes
with him."
liie above amiouiii eineiit has been le
! reived by more than inn young women
1 of Flushing during the last few days an 1
1 has causeii coiisiiieranie gossip,
Asked If lie had sent the cards nut as
a Joke, Mr. Smith replied! "Well, If you
saw some of the answeis I have received
' you wouldn l think so.
Mr. Smith is n sun of former JikIl-p
Clinton II. Smith He Is iv lawyer with
olllces ou llioadwny, Flushinii. He Is
secretary of the Flushing Country Club
and onu of the best golf playrra In that
organization.
COMMONS IN TURMOIL OVER
ASQUITH CONSCRIPTION BILL;
CALLS FOR 2,074,264 MORE MEN
jf CONSCRIPTION OR DEFEAT. ISSUE
RAISED BY LORD KITCHENER
T SPEAK only as n soldier with a single eye to the successful con
duct of the wnr. I feel sure that every one will agree that the
fullest, fnirest trial has been given to the system which I found in ex
istence and of which I felt it my duty to mako the best use.
"We are now asking Parliament to sanction n change, as it has
been proved that in the speciul circumstances of this utterly unprece
dented struggle the existing system without modification ii not equal
to maintaining the army that U needed to secure victory." Earl Kitch
ener spenklng in the House of Lords on the compulsory service bill.
ATLANTA REFUSES TO
RECALL ITS MAYOR
Voters Uphold Him mid tlio
Police Commissioners Who
Demoted Chief.
Atlanta, Jan. 5, Atlanta . voted
strongly to-day against tho recall of
Mayor James IL Woodward and five
,. , .,..1 ,,miln will)
Inst September demoted Chief of Police
(leavers after he had closed the red light
uisirici anil uau urun " .
against the locker clubs, operating in
violation of Oeorgla's prohibition law.
Complete returns are not yet In but
on the basis of those received It appears
tmt t,, r,.rall has been been beaten
ni,m ; t j a total vote of about
9 0M
Th, ,iemotlon of Heavers caused a
..., ,,u,u i ri'liihtf ..ii re-
caU potions against the otlldals who
o,,p0!I,.,i ,m, n ipcember the 23 per
cent, of the registered votrs required to
'order a recall was obtained nnd the
""'ZZZte" has'tienbltter. the
.n.. nn.i mllirlnn forwarrl movement.
iho ministers and other so-called "moral
forces" supporting the recall. Hitter
attacks were made on the characters
of the men who demoted Heavers. The
removal of the chief was styleil "lyncn-
nK." The anti-recall was supported by
the' three Atlanta newspapers and
large percentage of
the business elc-
ment.
TIih antl-rrral forces sy the result
does not mean a wide open city. The
Atlanta Comflt'iti"" shh
"There Is going to be no turning back
ward or lowering of the city's moral
standard, Should It be attempted, there
onc who will be more speeuny or
more determinedly on the Job to stop It
-hort than tho CoiMfmiffon. Auiimans
,,.'.u", .'r.JK 'iE". SU'Sl
..it, n.i -i... administrations which will ,
hereafter make a recall election for any-,
body Impossible.
BATTLE ON AFRICAN LAXE.
('rrinnn Arninl .Nlrmner raptured
anil Ofllcers Klllrd.
.spffiaf Ctiblt Ir(Kil(h to Tar. Sc".'
t.. Jan. 6.-Another -ten In thei
Hon of a part of the C "meroons , ma n-
ina In Teuton hand", was announced to.
dav be the Press Ilureau
A report from the olllcer commanding
the expedition on Lake Tanganlka.
which forms the western Imundaty of
German i:.ist Africa for some 400 miles,
announces that a German armed simmer
on the lake was forced to suirend.-r n
a short engagement and the '""rs
killed. M. Poumergue. 1-rench M nister
Colonies announced las, fall . l.ai
( Kranco-lrltlh troops .were operating,
1 against German Ka.t Africa
WILSON POLICIES WIN.
preparedness
J'roitrmiime Chief
Issilr In Mississippi lllrs'tl
Nkw iim.KANS. Ia., Jan o Complete
returns received here to-night from nine
out of the ten (siuntles of the Fifth Con
gressional district In .Mississippi Hhow
that Jodie W W. Venerable of Meridian
Vms beer.
leturneil n winner by nn rs-
,i,lvH(Ni ..luralWv of about '.'00.
Th Prrsldeufs prepueduess pro
prj,m,.
was made tlie enter issue in
the fight, and Senato- vardamans op
position to the President's plan was
earnestly voiced by one of tlie candi
dates. W. II Jo; ner, private secretary
to the late Congressman Witlien-poon.
Judge Venerable was an outspoken
advocate of the ptep.iredne pro
gramme HOTEL GUESTS FLEE TO STREET
Smoke
rouses
I'rmii
llnlel
I'lre i'H Hour
Ibeiiiiirle I'nlriins.
Albemarle lintel, Fif-
Guest in the
tv-fnurth street, Just east of llroadway
were aroused at 2.1 o'clo.'k this morn
ing when smoke poun d Into their rooms
from a tire In Ihe basement of an apart
ment house at lTOii-1,0 llroadway, inl
lolnlng the hotel About thirty guests
came out to the street with wraps hastily
thrown over their night garments Many
guests In iihe Ciitnheilnud Hotel, on the
west side of llroadway. were awakened.
Tlie file started from nn overheated
furnace and did not leach the slum
rooms of the Mecca Tlie Company on
the ground floor, llio.idwny car Huts
were tied up.
, TjfiAT STOICS' MANY IOST
Seven Out of cut J -six Uniiitn to
i llnir Ileen sated.
I'.viiKKlisiii-mi. W V.i, .Ian. f.. The,
packet boat Kanawha, owned by tne
Kanawha Packet Company of this cllv.
I sunk to-night about ten miles below hcie
i The boat, which struck a plei and satis ,
wilhln a few nilnules, left Pittsburg nn
Tuesday cnrr,vlng a crew of foil) ami n
passenger list nt tinny-Ms. n is not
known how many peisons have been
drowned Hn'y sevin are known lo be
saved.
Among Itio-e rescued was It. N
Heaver of Itacme, Ohio, who, with lib'
wife and lluee other women, was
dragged from the uatcr and taken lo a
neighboring farm house Ac,eriling b
Heaver, a llfohoat with about llflien per
sons was taken In the other side of the
river. It is thought that nianv petsons
have been lost, as about ten passenger
were seen standing on the uppir deck
when the boat settled, the water cover
lug the top ric k to a depth of about
three feel
OR RAT IIKAIt HI'ltl.Mi WATKK.
e. ths mm ot l liau ilupcrea baltlri
FIRE MENACES OLD
0. S. STATE RECORDS
Cans of (Jusoleiie Found in
Stiite Department Huildinir
Signals Out of Order.
WAsm.sv.TOS. Jan. C Fire was dis
covered to-night In Ihe State, War and
Navy Hulldlng. within a stone's .throw
of the White House. The blaze was
checked In time to save public rw-ords of
untold value.
Several misplrlous circumstance In
connection with the tire prompted the
authorities to authorize a careful In
quiry. In this building the Secretary
of State, the Secretary of War and the
Secretary of the Navy make their head
quarters and In It are houei the state
and military secrets of the tiovernment.
The building Is one of the moflt pic
turesque structures In Washington. Just
across a narrow street from the White
House
To-night's tire started in n repair shop
in the basement ou the Naw Department
rf.tle uf the building. Close by arc stored
public records of gloat value tlwvt could
not have been roplaroii ir destroyed.
When smoke was discovered Issuing from
the realr shop one of the watchmen on
duty made an Ineffxtual attempt to turn
In an alarm lie found the il m alarm
setim was out of order.
Kntering the repair chop one nf the
wat. hmen found two large ontalncrs
full of gasolene right in the pithwav of
the tlatnes. The gasolene whs removed
Just n time to prevent Ignition,
It was s.Ud by one official to-night
that the fire, whl-h caused abuut $500
damage, must hae been In progress
several minutes lefore It was discovered.
It appears that for some re.tson the
' '?
wtitchmaii sopisised to be on duty in this
hi of the building wns not present.
,n.lt t,. the corridors.
The.tl.inies were quickly extinguished,
j nniateur fire lighters In the btilkllng at
tending to it without the aid of the
local department,
Among the documents filed In the
building Is the original copy of the
ffleral Constitution
and ns'iiy other
lilstorlc documents,
GOLD IMPORTS $450,204,000.
e Vork Principal I'nrt of Kntry
With I .', noii.uou.
Waihsjtov, Jan, a. Total Imports
of gold Into the I'nlted Stales during
the calendar year Is 1.1 amounted to
JtjO.'.'Ot.OdO, aciording to a preliminary
statement. Issutd by the Federal Ite-
ervp Hoard to-day Of the toUl gold
recelMd about '.'3.1 per cent entered the
country by mi) or .New lork. Ogdens-
- - ,.,,',.,; Ml. ., San Pranclsco.
.", )lKureH and percentages for
,, Brt,Pwnj.B llrp yen as
follows bv Plrretor of the Mint Wor
ley. New York, 1 1 riZ.relS.Ofln ; fg-
il. nsburg. 1 1,14.1,000 : Portland. Me.,
tilO.opj.nuO : San Francisco, jed.'JSl.ooo ;
all other. $:0.513,0(i0.
Total exports of both domestic nnd
foreign bullion nnd coin during the past
enletulnr year reached $3O,S4S,00ft, of
whli JlS.T'lT.OOO, or 60 7 per cent., left
the country by Ihe port of New York,
nnd 19, 435,000, or 30.(5 per cent., via
Ogiensburg,
BRITISH LOSS AT LOOS 59,666.
Figures Given on Allied Drive of
l.nst Full,
Ixinpon. Jan. .1. Harold J. Tennant.
Parliamentary I'nder Secretary for
War. made public in the House of Com
mons this afternoon the olllcial casualty
list of the battle alsnut Ivis last Sep
tember It shows that :,378 Ilritlsh otll
cers and TiT.Ivx men were kllleil or
wouuile.l or arc missing. The list covers
the western front during the period of'
the allied drive between September 23
and i ictober S i
The table of losses presented follows:
OITlers Men I
Killed TT1 10,.1tr. ,
Wounded l.'JS' Jt.j'. 1
MIsslliK JIT V.S4I
Total . I.3T1
REPEL AID9ENTT0 TIGRIS.
Tort. s Check Atlenipl tn lleenforce
llrlilsh nt Kul-el-mnril.
I'liNSTANTiN.ii'i.r, via Amsterdam. Jan.
5 - Keeufniceineiits of Ilritlsh troops at
tempting to effect a Junction with the
beleagueied garrison nt Kut-el-Amara,
on the Tigris Itiver, have been repulsed,
It was announced by the War Otllce tu
dny The ollicial report Is as follows;
Irak Front We lepulsed attempts
of troops to reeiiforce the Ilrltish nt
Kut-el-Amura.
PERSIAN CRISIS aRAVER.'"W ref.-re.ee to "the limited ,rea In
Ilritlsh lleterse In Alesopntamta
I'lillotted li llnlds.
Spenat fiiMr Drpitci to Tun St v
pHTHi'iii m . via London, Jnn .1. The
lo. ns. l,'.i- ttr says .
"The Mliiati'U! ill Persia has been ren
dered mote serious In consequence nf the
Ilrltish revi me I' .Mcsiqiotninlii. Iriegu
bus and gendarmes have renewed Ihelr
laids and tl.e chief priests have warned
Ihe Shah that he will suffer his father's
fate unless he compiles with the people's
will.
" stimg foi re under llahtam Khan
hss Invaded lliitish llaliichlstan as the
vanguard "f a Geiiiiau expeditioii wlilcli
Is n hv hi lug 'iigaiil.Pd."
ii.iiniiiv "i'.sr tisi" iiKsoitrs
ItKAt llt.llll"N...V ri.OIIHIATKt'lAI.,"
vii.iiiue nasi lain : r: r .xi 3 ninsr
..'istesl lau. ii ulna lmili till B'vu.
At9.
i
Premier Introduces Meas
ure, Which Encounters
Prompt Attack.
"HONEST OPPONENTS"
ON LIST OF EXEMPT
Announcement, Also Bar
ring of Ireland, .leered
by Hostile Members.
PASS BILL 01? LOSE
WAR KITCHENER
Simon Defends Derby Plan
Trish and Labor M. P.'s
Refuse to Yield.
tprnnl Collr rf patch to T Sr",
London, Jnn. 0 (Thursday). Kvery
seat In the. Houso of Commons' vvaa
filled and the galleries wen' tnxed to
the utmost long before the opentnn
yesterday afternoon of one of the most
momentous sessions of Parliament In
the history of Knglaiul. The sur
rounding streets were packed with
crowds eager to see the members of
th Government pos-s by n their way
to propose the compulsion measure.
The bill Is designed to call Imme
diately Into the military service of
Knglnnd every male Britisher between
the ages of IS and 41 who Is unmarried
or Is a widower without children de
pendent upon him. 1'remler Asijulth
In Introducing the measure said It was
decided to introduce this compulsory
servico bill In order to redeem his (the
Premier's) pledge to Lord Derby that
the married men of military age in
Rngland would not bn culled to th
colors until the single men had been
enlisted. He nitdoil that tho pledge
was given because there was over
j whelming evidence that the married
i men were willing to servo.
Will Get It.OT'l.Ull I Urn,
Through the operation of the bill,
from the effect of which Irelnnd Is
excluded, the anny will Ret llrst the
5'.'7,P33 single men who volunteered
under the Derby plan, tho il.ll.te"
single men who il'-cllned to volnntcei
and, finally, the S't.1,171 married men
who offered their services under ih
voluntary enlistment scheme. Th'
mnltes n total of ",07 1,"' I men vvh
will le railed in the colors linmeilt.itelv
after the passage nf the bill. Th
measure will heroine operative four
teen dajs after tlie ruv.il assent ,
given.
Foreign correspondent' wei, net Al
lowed in the Hons". The e. n esp,,n.nt
i of TllR Sl'N, how ever, by
Sp.'i l.il i out-
tesy of the Foreign fllllce.
nceiiplid a
seat in the tlist row of the
gallery.
members'
The prellmlnirv pioceed; igs weie
lianllv ntlillble on arciiiint ot th,. exclt"
ment which precede I Premier Aquith's
entrance Kli.iki was In evidrtn e i ver
wheie. A great number of members in
the House of Cnuiinnns who are In ai'tlw
service had obtained leave fin the ncca
sion. The illsplav nf iinifiiruis wa" e
tremely Imtuessive
Not a sound was heard when Premi'i
Asqulth arose nt Mil o'clock to re i i
"Military service bill No .', to ma I
piovislun with respect to military servi i
In connection with the pri sent war'
I'rslses llerb's GfTnrl,
The Premier was frequently ehcereu
ns he referred to the figures of Lot. I
Derby's rectultlng campaign, winch h
described as "won, lei fnl '' His assertion
that the ligun s falbd to make nut a ciso
for general minimis. ,,n was .ilvn wel.
coined by loud calls nf "Ileal Hear'"
The Premier, after giv.ng an an ilysn
of the recruiting tlguies und, r Isird
Derby's plan, said
"Nenrly J.OOd.nOO men have signified
their willingness to s'Mvo their count r
It should convince the Alias nml their
enemies that the people of (lieu llrlt
alu have their heaits in the war and
are prepared to meet any call.
"After di ducting 40ii,(hiii men re
jected as unlit from the ligures in the
nport the total is still In excess of
.',.100,110(1 men of all classes The total
of iinstarred' singe men - l.lnn.iiou Is
subject to huge deductions Kx mptlons
will be grained to cnnseientiniis ob
Jeotnrs. lighting nun loqiilicil for Ihn
national liidusirics. sole supporters of
poor iicrsons. and persons who nro In
linn or In 111 health.
"The eiillttinciit fur w.ii ' , tin, group
syslem will be renpened id the mili
tary authorities will sti) permit men
to iitlcHt nfter the passiq of the bill"
Tlie llrst distill b in, e ca.no at tho Pre-
llli'U lit in'w iiififHMi nm nn I'lH'i'il vtt
meaning that lielaud would be excluded
from its piiivlslous. The leal outcry,
however, came when the lieuiler d.
( l.i r ii that among tlie exemptions would
be men with "conscientious objections to
undertaking cninbitant service."
The members of Ihe House were ob.
vlously iiiimxisl The surprise seemed
general. Calls for an explanation worm
heard from nil sides
The provision l i exempt tlmse having
icniM'b.nlloiiH si i tiples leg.irding military
service, Mr. sqiiith explained, s In.
ttniled to avoid vnlatinu the tellglous
pniuiples of I 'u, ild rs and others of simi
lar views In tins pal ticiilar. be ob
sirved, the Gov eminent not ,mlv is fnl
liwllu the exalllpli nf Smit!i Sftlca nti'l
New '.cahtnil tint Hint 'if I' tl Careful
prnv isihii, he s i id ui- t i n ei id, sn that
111. persnll i.ll, ' "'in tl'elt th et.illsn
unless lie lias t . n"n at fur d
I .. ,
cllnlng lo serve
I The Prime Minlstci
I lie
I
