I
A BOLT everybody who is really interest-id in Wash
ington, the ?city's and people's welfare, reads
The Herald. The HERALD averages more than
30,000 paid circulation olaily, which covers most of the
best homes in Washington.
AS first announced January I. 1916. The Herald
guarantees hill money's worth to the pur
chasers of articles advertised in the display column?
of this paper by any Washington merchant
no. ;woi>.
WEATHER: Rak; cold wav? cominf
WASHINGTON. D. C. THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 1916.
ONE CENT.
Il ? ??klBKtoa .mi fatela ??h.? >.. r,
? karri, ? , . ? ? ? ? m -4??. ?? ?t?
SENATE IGNORES
WILSON REQUEST
TO KEEP SILENT
Plunges Into Sensational De
bate on U. S. Position in
World War.
WORKS FIRES THE MATCH
Demand for Embargo on Mu
nitions Brings Out Sharp
Words from Senators.
LODGE DEFENDS SALE OF ARMS
Would Be Unneutral to Stop Ship
ments Now, Because It Would Fa
vor Germany, He Says.
Disregarding the urgent appeal of the
President to refrain from public dlaius
?lon of submarine warfare and the deatha
of American citizens, pending negotia
tions between thl? country and Austria,
the Senate yeater4Uy afternoon engaged
In It? most senaational debate since the
outbreak of the European war.
Senator Work?, of California, charged
that the government by reason of Its
, failure to keep American citizens off bel
ligerent ships was morally guilty of mur
der. He ma<Ve a strong appeal for an
embargo on the exportation of arms and
?mmonitlon to the allies. Senator Lodge
and others argued that such action at the
present time would be unneutral and
would make the United States practlcaily
the ally of Germany Senator Hitchcock
advocated a ?trie* embargo and declar?*-d
that in not doing so as all the North
Sea countries have done, this country Is
unneutral and favoring the ailles.
Reed Uefeada War Trade.
Senator Reed, of Missouri. Dem?>crat.
d?f?-nded the sale of munitions and at
tributed much of the prosperity of the
country today to the war trade. This
statement caused Senator Works to re
tort that the whole trouble was that
tne American people thought more ot th?
dollars they are making out of the war
than th* human life being destroyed.
Th?? i?het*-r was sla-niflcant in the sentf
w-nt ?lpveloped tn favor of action to pro
hibit the exportation of munitions and
to make it unlawful for American citi- ]
ici-? to travel on belligerent ships.
Senator Stone, chairman of the For-1
e:gn Relations Committee, made several
unsuccessful attempts to stop the discus
?jio.i. He suggested later, however, that
the debate was not without value as It'
afforded fomethinlg in the way of an ?
index to the sentiment of the senate on '
questions that would come up for con- j
sideratlon later,
VA nald Helame l*aaapnrta.
Senator Core proposed two bills, one of
which proposes to deny passports to any
American citizen except upon his mak- ;
ing affidavit that he will not travel on
a belligerent vessel, and another meas
sure which forbids the vessels of s bel- '
llgerent nation from carrying Wtcrican
citizen?? t-> or from American ports and h
which directs the Secretary of State toi
withhold protection from .- y American,
who travels the high seas without a'
passport, obtained In conformity with:
the legislation proposed and one which
forbids Americans from traveling on ves- j
eels of the L'nited States or of neutral
nstions carrying contraband.
Senator Jones of Washington, a Re
publican, introduced a resolution along!
the same line and read an editorial from
a newspaper which held it to be un
patriotic for an American citizen to In
??Ite complications by taking passage on
a belligerent vessel. Mr. Jones' remarks
started a sharp dthate for Senator Nel
son, a Republican, inquired whether Sen
ator Jones meant to say that it was un
patriotic for American Consul McNeely
to travel to his post on the Persia.
Before Senator Jones could reply Sen
ator Owen, of Oklahoma, a Democrat, In
terposed with a suggestion that "If an
official of the government had no other
way of getting to his poet, the l'nited
States should send him on a war ship."
This brought senator O'Gorman to his
feet.
"There was a neutral ship on which
Mr. McNeely could have gone. He should
have taken the Dutch ship sailing In that
direction, recommended by his superiors.
But our citizens continue to take these
needless chance?." concluded Senator
O'Gorman.
"???? I? Travel A ay where.
Thereupon Senator Borah. Republican,
another member of the Foreign Relations
Committee, observed:
"The right of neutrals to travel in
ssfety on merchantmen even of bel
ligerent countries is unquestioned, and
aa long ss this government did not warn
against the practice, <?e-rtalnly lt cannot
be called unpatriotic "
Senator Owens returned to the debate
with a suggestion that unpatriotic was
"undoubtedly too strong a word." with
which to characterise the action of ani
American citlien who traveled on a bel-1
llgerent merchantman
Senator Nelson, of Minnesota, remarked j
that trarel on a neutral ship did not
maure safety, for "as many neutral ships I
aa belligerents hsve been blown up. Noj
ship is safe. One neutral ship was tor-]
pedoed within Sweden's three-mile limit. I
Even th? Ford pea<re ship might have!
k-aan torpedo??!." ,
.-? (
British Lord in Water
32 Hours Clinging to
Broken Persia Lifeboat
Sperisi Cab!, to The WaahiaarUai Hrrald.
I.ondon, Jan. 5.?Lord Mon
tagu cables to the Daily Express
f rem Malta as follows :
"Have had miraculous escape.
After being thirty-two hours in
the water, holding onto a broken
boat, was rescued at 0 o'clock on
Friday night by the Ningcho>v.
lt was a million to one chance in
the dark.
"Out of nineteeji alive at sun
set Thursday only eleven were
alive on Friday.
"The Persia's officers and
crew did all possible.
"MONTAGU."
HOME URGED
FOR CHAMBER
Local Commerce Body Con
siders Advisability of
Erecting Building.
PLAN LAUNCHED AT MEETING
HELD BY DIRECTORS' BOARD
Question Will Be Discussed at Annual
Meeting on Tuesday Night
>t Willard.
The Washington Chamber of Commerce
may erect a home for itself.
The project was launched at a meeting
of the board of director? of the cham
ber laat night by Isaac Uans, who in
troduced a resolution providing for the
appointment of a committee to consider
the ad\isability of the plan. The motion
was seconded by A. Leftwich Sinclair
and adopted unanimously without dia
cusslon.
President P. T. Moran will name th?
committee today, and It is probable the
matter will come before the full cham
ber for discussion at an early date. The
plan will 1 griven impetus at th-f an
nual meeting? of th" chamber on Tues
day night, when p rendent Moran will
refer to the project In his annual re
port.
The tentative plan of those who
fathered the Idea ia to ere'-t a building
along the linea of a club, but on a more
home-like and fraternal basis. In addi
tion to providing a meeting place, the
home would be able to house the largrer
events of the chamber that are now held
at hotels and other places. The rhambera
of commerce of nearly all the large cities
have homes built along lines that con
vert the members Into one civic family.
\nnnl Meeting Tue*da>.
It was voted to hold the annual meet
ing next Tuesday night at the Willard.
?U this meeting P. T. Moran will retire
as president. A. L. Sinclair from the
vice presidency, and Albert Schultet?'
term as second vli-e president will end.
Per.^ons to the.se office? will be elected,
together with ten new members of the
board of directors.
The new directors will fill the places of
the following members, whuse term? ex
pired at last night's meeting: James F.
Oyster, S. A Klmberly, R. P. Andrews.
M. A. Winter. Harry King, K. G Gra
ham. Sidney West. Dr. Lewis J. Batti?*.
Dr. H. M. Kaufman and A. H. Roger.?.
Among the candidates for the ten va
cancies on the board of directors are
Byron S. Adams, Dr. ?Lewis J. Battle,
Charte? J. Bell, John (_?. Tapers. Post
master .Merritt ?. Chance, Roy C. Clefln,
Wade H. Cooper. W. ?S. Corby, Floyd EL
Itevi??. T. C. Dulin. R J. Earnshaw. li.
J. Falvey. H. H. Glassie. B. W. Guy. J.
B. Henderson, W. s. Hose, Joseph Jacob!.
? J. Kaufman. Clarence P. King, A.
Ltsncr, U P. Lo\ing. Robert E. .Mann,
Thomas M. Melton, Townley McKee,
John Mitchell, jr. -Units Ottenberg,
George M- Oyster, Jr., John Poole. Cuno
?. Rudolph, John H. Ruppeit, George P.
Sacks. William H. Saundcrs, George
Schutt, F. C. Steward. Lewis M. Thayer.
F. ?. Weaver and Joseph I. Weiler.
At the meetln? last nlsht i>r. Lewis J.
Rattle and Marry King were named to
represent the chamber at the national
conference on immi^atlon and Am?ri
canisation at Philadelphia January 19
and 20.
W. J. Keh? and George M. Oyster
vere selected to attend a meeting of the
National Forelgm Trade Council at New
Orleans, January Zl, 28 and 29. The
chamber will be represented by Gwynn
Jones and Albert Schulteis at the confer*
?nee of the National Security League In
this city January 20. 21 and 22.
GREAT AUSTRIAN FORCE
OPPOSING THE RUSSIANS
Second Line Troops of Hungary Des
perately Resisting Advance of
the Czar's Armies.
Hpet-iai Cabie la The Washing??-?! Herald.
London. Jan. *i.?? Petrosrad dispatcli
to the Dally Telegraph say? that th.?
Austro-Germane have r-oncentrated In
great force to oppose the Russian offen
sive. Their losses. It Is said, have been
en?-ixmoue.
'The small number of prisoners taken
by the Russians." is explained by the
ferocious stubbornness of the Hungarian
Honveds isecond line tr4?ps) who are
bearing the brunt ot Ue defens?.'?
FISCAL REPORT
READY;GOES TO
CONGRESSTODAY
Half-and-Half Plan for Dis
trict Said to Be Repudiated
by Committee.
WORKS' PLAN IS FAVORED
Select Body Expected to Re
port Present System Has
Outlived Usefulness.
WILL URGE TAX RATE PROBE
Federal Government by Plan Would
Pay Difference Between Estimates
and District's Revenues.
tt? J09BPH P. A'NMN.
Members of the Joint select committee
created to investigate and report on the
financial relations between the Federal
-government and the District last night
put the tini-hm ? touches to a unanimous
report. The report will be presented to
the House when It meets at noon today.
The document was finally determined
upon at a meeting at the home of Senator
?Saulsburv. of Delaware, attended by all
members of the committee.
While no member of ?he committee
could be found who would divulge the
contents of the report, the best informa
tion available Indicates that the half?
and-hatf plan of appropriating money for
the District expenses is repudiated in
favor of the Indeterminate plan as sug
gested by Senator Work? and the civilian
Commissioners.
The report is about CM words long
and romains a decided declaration of the
duty of the Federal government to assist
in the maintenance and development of
the National Capital. Tt holds that the
Im If-ami-half plan, however, has out
lived its usefulness and has become as a
thorn in the side of Congres?, breeding
dissension and antagonism against the
District
Tax Hmt*h Probi? Ir err?*
The report .; ts understood, fefefff? that
as far as the eOwmhtee has i?een able
to Judge from the evidence presented, the
present tax rate of (practically) ten mills
Imposes a fair burden of taxation on the
District. Usine this rate until it shall
have been proven unfair to one side
or another, the report recommends that
District revenues be raiaed a? hereto
fore, and the annual estimates of-^the
Commissioners prepared without regard
to the relation between the amount of
District revenues and the demands of
the estimates.
From these estimates, the annual ip
proprlatlon bill, by the plan urged in
the report, would l>e made up and the
deficit between the District revenues and
so much of the estimated" expenditure as
Congress shall approve shall represent
each year the contribution of the Fed
eral government.
The report urges, however, that Con
greas take immediate steps to ascertain
whether the present tax rate is fair
alike to the Federal government and
citizens of the District. It is urged that
cities approximately tue size of Washing
ton in population should he used as a
basis for comparison and that a permanent
agency of the government, probably the
Census Bureau, be called upon to furnish
this information after fresh investiga
tion.
Berlin Threatens
Greece with War
Seizure of Consuls by the
Allies Blamed on the
Athens Government.
Special 4'ab??? to The Waahfntfon Herald.
London. Jan. ."?.?The seizure and de
portation by the allies of the German,
Austrian. Bulgarian and Turkish consuls
at Saloniki tjas taken on an exceedingly
grave aspect.
The military abduction followed sharp
ly on the recent aerial raid by German
aeroplanes on Saloniki. Without an In
stant's delay the consuls were hustled
on board the French warship Patrie, yes
terday's information being that they
would be landed In France and taken to
the Swiss frontier.
Germany, however, will not allow the
incident to end thus. She holds that
Greece Is responsible for the arrest of
the consul??. A Rome dispatch to the
I?undon DaJly News tonight Indicates
that she will demand Joimediate. ?repara
tion and the release of the consuls and
their restoration to their residences
which, in the future, must be guarded
by Greek troops.
In case compliance with her d.inands
should be impossible owing to the op
position of the French and British, Ger
many, the Berlin government represents,
would be justified In ???fclaring war on
Greece, whose neutrality. It is held, is
only nominal. ?till, even though Qer
many and her allies should still be un
willing to force Gree?-*e to abandon h?-r
neutrality, they feel they would be com
pelled to Invade Greek territory with
the object of driving eut th- Freneh and
British.
Fight Begins in Parliament
Over War Conscription Bill;
"Unnecessary" Says Simon
_
Former Member of Cabinet Opens ?Attack Immediately Fol
lowing Premier's Speech Introducing Measure Com
pelling Service in the Army ? Earl Kitchener
Supports Government's Plan in the
House of Lords.
Special Cable Ut TW \Va?hing1oa Her-ald.
L*omlon, Jan. .'.?Premier ?\s<i'ilth open
ed the breach for conscription in Great
Britain proper, by introducing the mili
tary service bill In the house of com
mon? this afternoon. The measure pro
vide? for modified conscription.
Ireland Ib excluded from tt? scope.
The age limits prescribed In the bill
are IS to .1. It applies solely to bachelors
and widowers witfiout children depending
on them. This is the flrst time since
the days of feudalism that an effort haa
been made to force ?ronscriptlon upon
the British people.
Mrmbrn In ?oltllrr? Khaki.
The bill wa? introduced during the
most remarkable session the "mother
of Parliaments'* has ever witnessed.
Many of the member? were attired in
khakf. They had hurried from the
trenches tn Flanders. Greece, the Dar
danelles, and other fronts to take part
in the momentous fight.
"Immediately after the premier had
completed his Introductory speech a
tight ?as opened upon the bill by Sir
John Simon, former home secretary,
who resigned from the cabinet be
cause of hi.? opposition to conscription.
"The bill should be rejected." he de
clared. "Nearly 6.000.000 men have en
listed voluntarily. Nearly 3.OftO.O?O en
listed before Lord Derby'.* scheme was
proposed Thre a million have en I i ?ted
since that time.
"It le plain that the government's
bill Is unnecessary. I believe there
are men on the front bench now who
hold view.- on compulsion Indi.? tin
gulshable from iny own. I regard the
voluntary principle a? vital to our na
tional life."
The introduction of the bill is regarded
as the prelude to one of the bitterest (
struggles In Pjirllament in modern times. 1
During the discussion that followed the
premier's address, Andrew Bonar Law.
leader of the conservative party and co
lonial secretary In the coalition cabinet,
remarked slgniluantly:
"The prender >s convinced that com
pulsion is a matter of national necessity
and if the house decides that no national
necessity exists, then the hou.se must
make up Its mind that the war will have
to be Hnish?d without the assistance of
lh** present premier."
M?L.?. t'nl i-tiii-, -m Automatic
The bill l>e-cotnee a law fourteen days
after Royal assent Is given to It. Three
weeks later all males who fall within its
jurisdiction automatically Income en
listed men.
Men working in national Industries or
at trades classified as "indispensable" are
excluded. Sup|>orters of poor persons.
those In ill-health or sufici ing from in
firmities are ab*-o excluded.
While the measure is taking its course
In i 'ari ia ment single men w 111 l?e given
another cha?e*? to enlist under the volun
tary system. The group system of re
cruiting will be reopened and volunteers
will 1m* allowed to attest for future serv
ice, a* was done under the Derby scheme.
The bill will not apply to mea not gen
erally resident In the United Kingdom
or to clergymen, or thoae already mem
bers of the army and navy.
Monroe Doctrine ?Extension
Is Proposed by United States
' / ( ?. ... ??wC? t
Maintenance of Territorial Integrity and Republican Form of
Government Far-Reaching Features of Note to
Twenty American Republics.
??p?! io The Wa?htn4t'?? He?id.
New York. Jan. 5 ?The Kvening Post
today received the following dispat< h
troin tt.? Was hingt on correspondent:
"The United State? has proposed to
it? twenty sister republic? of thin hemis
phere a practical extension of th?? Mon
roe doctrine. A formal memorandum,
paralleled in importance only by th?
famous pronouncement of President Mon
roe himself, has been presented by Serre- ,
tary tanning, at th*1 direction of Presi
dent Wilson, to the .Latin-American Am
bassadorts and Minister.*?? here, to be sub- \
mitted to their respective governments. It
asks the diff? rent governments to sub
scribe to the following principles later
to be embodied in a general convention,
to whk-h all .are to be signatories:
Mi. The United States and all the other
nations of this hemisphere mutually agree
to guarantee the territorial integrity of.
the countries of this hemisphere.
.2.? All the nations agree to maiutain
the republican form of governmt-t.t.
(3.) All bind themselves to submit to
settlement by diplomacy, arbitration, or
investigating commissions as provided fori
by the several treaties already ratified, |
disputes of all kinds, including boundary!
troubles, but not controversies affecting
the Independence of each.
(4.) General agreement whereby 'expor
tation of arms to any but the legally
constituted governments of this hemi
sphere will be prohibited, and laws of
neutrality adopted which will make it
Impossible for filibustering expeditions to
threaten or carry on revolutions In neigh
boring republics.
The Evening Post's correspondent when
Informed of the details of the memoran
dum was told also that the plan had its!
inception more than a year ago, and ?
after a long aerie*, of conversations itI
was finally put Into written form ten*
days ago and submitted to the several ?
governments.
Tt mean? broadly then that there will
be no territorial aggression on our part;'
that there will be no intervention ever.;
for selfish purposes, or to set up govern??)
ments of our choosing, but simply that. If!
force is ever used, this shall be ?imply l
and solely to protect the legitimate in
terests of our nationals, or In conse-|
quence of some other violation of rights,
under international law?In other word.-, '
only in war.
The new proposal would, therefore, re
move at one stroke the idea that the
I'nited States intends to exercise a guard-'
ianship over its neighbors. It operates
effectively to dispel the notion that, be- j
cause the American Government renders
assistance, such as it haa in Haiti or
San Domingo, selfish motives of ? : itorial ;
aggression are naturally back of ita
policies.
Secretary Lansing s proposal ig of far
greater Importance than the note whifh
John Hay eer.t to the Powers to obtain
definite guacantees that the territorial
integrity of China would be maintained
As ?ell as the commercial "open door. '
Only an exchange of notes followed.
"What Is being proposed now is ? general
convention binding on all the twent>-one
countries, that none shall seek to take
territorial advantage of the other, and
jnoreover. that the republican form of
government shall be guaranteed.
WOULD PRESERVE
NEUTRAL RIGHTS
FROM SACRILEGE
Politi-cal Science Expert Urges
American Republics to
Save World Law.
FEARS RUIN MAY ENSUE
Dr. Leo S. Rowe Says Fabric of
International Law Should
Be Rescued.
FOR COMMISSION OF JURISTS
President Wilson Addrestes Congres?
of Scientists Tonight at Memorial
Continental Hall.
Sectional meetings of the scientific,
educational, and law divisions of the
Pan-American Scientific Congress con
tinued yesterday. Many important
papers looking to the establishment of
more brotherly relation? between the
republics of the Americas were Intro
duced by various speakers.
?Social functions. Including a special
drill at Fort Myer. arranged by the
commandant, a reception by Secretary
of War and Mrs. Garrison, and an
i Must? sled lecture on "Stars" by Dr.
John Brashier. claimed the attention
of the delegates during the afternoon
and evening
The delegate.? are now awaiting with
interest the address tonight of Presi
dent Wilson, ae ther? is a decided un
dercurrent of sentiment in favor of
definite action bearing on the disturb
ed international situation that has
overshadow ed the ordinary activities
of the Congress. The address of the
President will practically conclude the
deliberative pha.-e- of the gathering
Nrutnlll) la MINIMA
The formulation and matntenan?* of
'ho.rights of neutrals by th*? rep?blica of
t ne A m ericas tw?fore t he laat fabric of
Intfrnattonal law has been df-Mm-'^ed by
(he warring nations of Kurope ?i Virg-ed
by Dr. I?eo ft Rowe, professor of pollti
r*al science in th-e I'nWersity of Penn
sylvania, before the section on Interna
tional law. Ilteeaa prevented the appear
ance of Dr. Rowe. und his addrt ss was
read to the KCtlon.
"By the inevitable logic of events."
(?id l?r. Rowe. "we have become th*?
Mty effective defenders of tutina! rlcrhts.
und unies;-? we resj>ond to the call we
prill l>ccome a>-compii?*e* in the destruc
tion of that delicate fabric of interna
tional law which represents the triumph ?
??????G??) ON PAO! TUO.
WORLD "BROKE
AT END OF WAR
Judge Gary Sees Nations Ex
hausted and U. S. Lack
ing Customers.
BELLIGERENTS ALREADY ARE
PINCHED FOR MEN AND MONEY
End of Hottilitie? Will Find thi> Coun
try Facing Net* Problem?, ?Sey?
Steel Work? Head.
hprctai to The VI mIiItIi? H m Id
New York. Jan. 5?Judge til beri H
ary. chairman of the board of direc
tors of the United States Steel Corpo
ration. today Issued a remarkable
Maternent on the steel situation, buri
nes? conditions In general, and the
war.
Judge Gary shows that the l'nited
States ts today producing steel at the
rate of 41,000,000 tons per annum, as
compared with the best previous rec
ord of 35.000.000 tons; declares that a
long continuance of the war would be ?
suicidal, and sounds a note of warning
upon what the future may have In
store for business in the l'nited States
Judge Gary's statement says:
"What of the future? Who can aay with
any feeling of certs Inly. It may be very
dark and desperate. It will be thus In
Kurope and we tn America feel the ef
fect? to a greater or lesser extent. '*n*
destruction of billions of billions of prop
erty in any country must necessarily
affect, in some degree, all other coun
tries. Economic conditions in the l'ntted
States may and should be good in th*
long future, with the usual interruptions
if we are fully alive to our opportuni ti?*?*
"If one ekle or the other should ab
solutely conquer the other side (which
seems impossible, unless the war is car
ried to en extern that would leave the
surviving peoples ?-f the present genera
tion of all the nations helpless and hope
le.est there would be no need nor dis
position for an interna t ion? 1 tribunal.
The leaders of all the nation;* mum real
ln and appreciate these facts and are
ready to act upon them soon.
talion? K \ h ? o *? 11 fi c Tkrw?rl?r-?
"The other ground for m> l?eli?-f is
that each of the warring nattons is
starving put man and money both. Tbey
do not admit it, but the signs are plenty
and convincing. Any nation that is pro
longing the war beyond the time ?hen
ft can be reasonably and honorably dis
continued, is slowly but surely commit
ting suicide.
"But whenever the war shall close,
the business of this country will be con
fronted with new conditions-. The pur
chasing power of the whole world will
have be-cn very dicati y reduci t) Par?
eign countries who are now bu>ing our
products, becauae compelled, will with
draw their patronage In a Urge meas
ure."
GERMANS MAKING
READY FOR DRIVE
AGAINSTSALONIKI
Von Mackensen Ordered by
Kaiser to Begin Battle,
Is Report.
? ? ?
BIG GUNS NEAR BORDER
Allies' Aviator Scouts Dis
cover Approach of Teuton
Mortars from the North.
DARING RAIDS ON ENEWY LIKES
French Airmen Drop Bomb? on Bal*
ganan Barrack?. Kiltiag Fifty Sol
dier? Hunt for Si ?[???tor
t*r*er-i?l CiMf ?? IV *ufa??tOTi HmM
I ?on don. Jan. 5?? Th*? A u?tnv-i>ntiiuJ
? re mamans heavy artillery ?t Guevghelt
for an early drive on Saloniki A dla
patch to the Paris Temps from lu Salon
iki correapondent tonijrht ?ay? thai al
lied aviators, returning from ? raren
naiaa nee over the German line?, ata ta
that larve number? af twelve Inch mor
tar? are arrivine at the Greek frontier
from Nip!
Field Marahal von Mackenarn will com
mand the combined army of A u?*tliana.
Germana Turk? and Buurarlana in their
f-ampainn nca?nrt th?? aille? Dtapatchee
tonight definitely locate the German rem
men-irr on the Greek frontier He haa
prevlovely been reported withdrawn tc
l.eaaa rabia
??(?*???- ot? :?? ???. dir ?iiit-?.
The SHloniki roi-resirpr.nd.Mit of the Cor
ner?- Iteli? Sera of Milan, aire? to hia
paper
"Thr commander in-rhief of the aillo?
today aaid to me:
" It look? like an ?earlv attack That
li* Juiit ah.it ?f umt * "
< "opie-. of the Frankfurter RrttiuuE
? cachine Holland announce that Field
Marshal ran Mack m are ha? been or
dered by Kmpero? \* illlarn f?. trnnsedi
ately ?aa.???] v-trorouelf affahtst iha ?*
.ted for*??-?* at Katonlfcl
(?real numb?.-? of alile?' arrop?a?eg are
mak-nc darla? raid? upon and racon
nalsHai'Cr?} o*e-r the Orman pntdtton? be
fore Uv Greek frontier
A Run- ? H.spEitrh from Saloniki ad-4?
thai Krci.ch hi i*toi> here droftpaJ
*M.r.,i.5 <?c l'etri-'h. Ptrtirritas and ?the*
towns ?he?? troop? ar-e observed {.Oncea*
tra ting
Th' Milan paper reporta that French
aviator? ftymc acroa? th? frontier hom
ar'rded s barracks, k?hn*- fifty Rutear
?an soldier? and destroyed two bride?*
H* ndds that a relent lean ?earch fo
German ?nd Ao?trian submarine? t* be
in.; narrte*! on bv ?Hied w?r?hlps from
i-*iii-<n!ki
Here's the Way They Are Taking to
The Washington Herald These Days
POtUVlMCD JK7? raONBm ??\?? I?*-n!>44
A. F. FOX COMPANY
? t.DMl M> K. KO\ I
REAL ESTATE
. SALES INVESTMENTS LOANS APPRAISALS RENTS
AKKOAt 4> HKA1.T4 HI 11.1)1 \4,. I-.1-1-1 -H" V *W.
wunmmi, d. c
Jan. 3. 1916.
The Washington Herald,
Gentlemen: ?
Your idea for a Sunday morning
newspaper is in my opinion a good one.
Give us the news without the waste
paper of which the average Sunday paper
is so largely composed.
You will please add this day to my
present subscription the Sunday issue, to
be delivered at my home, 1 709 S St. N. W.
Wishing you every success, most
truly yours.
(Signed) ?. K. FOX.
Here's the
Reason Why
ALL THE NEWS and
More Special Features
EVERY MORNING
At Less Than Half the Cost
SUBSCRIBE NOW TO
Daily . . 1 Cent
Sunday, 1 Cent
DAILY AND SUNDAY
BY CARRIER. 30C A MONTH
SEND IN YOUR ORDER BELOW
NAME ...
ADDRESS
And This Is the Way the Circulation Is Piling Up
The Washington Herald: ?
Please increase my order, beginning Sunday, for the HtrvALD. to be sent to Wolz Station.
Ft. Myer Heights, from 20 to 150. Yours truly. JOHN DUNNING.
\ o I ?? ; ms increase order la "juat a at raw that ihovi which wi) the wi
'?lot* >T
