WEATHER FORECAST:
Partly Cloudy; Colder Tbnight
(Full Report on Pago Two.)
NTTMBEB8771.
CONGRESS PROBERS UNANIMOUS
IN VOTE
PROOFLACKiNQ
SANK PERSIA
Survivors' Affidavits . Fail to
Establish That Liner Was
Submarined.
ASK VIENNA FOR REPORT
Probable Death of Takoma Park
Missionary Reported By
Ambassador Page.
The State Department was offlclilly
tfvised today that affidavits of .survlv
tin of the sunken stesmer Pers!. thus
f &t rtbfained, fall to establish legal pnof
that the vessel wai sunk hv a Mibma
xinst ..
TWa leave th State Department In
the position, officials ssld, of being com
Twlled to rely almost wholly upon the
Auatrlan government for facte etab
IKMntr responsibility for the Persia dis
aster. Ambassador Ferifleld, cabled Secretary
f BtatiIsinstne today that he had laid
feete'th Austrian, foreign, ofitcethe
inquest et the United States, Government
fnr'fnferinatJon.
Situation More Grate.
Coincident with, th.es Jeveloprtent
carafe ' official report from Ambas a-
dor -PajtOi at London stating that the
HeV. Homer R. Salisbury, cf Takoma
Park; 'D. C, was a passenger on the
1 Persia, and was believed to be lost.
The -probable death of another Amerl-.
can on the Persia, as practically all
' 1iod that American Consul Robert N.
McNeely was saved, adds gravity to
the situation though officials said it
lould not change the diplomatic statu.
The cablegram from Ambassador
Pag4 said:
"Information received that the Rev.
Homer R. Salisbury, native American
citizen, sailed from Marseilles on the
Persia. Formerly lived nt Takoma
Park, Washington, D. C, Steamship
Company confirms sailing and believes
him fast."
No Further Eviiltncee.
The cablegram todav from American
Consul dan-els. at Alexandria, where
moat of the survivors were landed, .ssld
that af Ado-vita thus jfsr obtalred con
tained no further evldewv than tvsi
given in 1 is lint dispatches
"No submarine 01 other vessel was
(Continued on Page Six.)
DIFFICULT TO PICI
Talesmen Show Decided Convic-1
tions- on CasePrisoner's :
i
Mask of Unconcern Torn.
MINNEAPOLIS. Jan. . -; County
rrosecutor rseorge V'. Armstrong today
summoned ae nltn.se and. pie
psred to begin nresienting evidence In
the trial of Frederick T. Price Indicted
as wife murderer. ,
The ordeal of selecting a Jury h tear
ing swav the mii'V of unconcern worn
by the. prisoner. Todiy and yesterday he
heard only two out of thirty-eight
veniremen admit thev could rhe him a
fair trial. The other th'r'y-slx admitted
tljey'wcre o prejtidlced against him
from vht thn had read and heard of
the death of Marv TVdlev Prlee, his
third wife, tnat tney could not be fair
Jurors.
Clustered behind him were William
M. Dye, brother-in-law of the dead
woman.: John P. TTov. private detective:
David H. Frldley, father of the dead
woman: rhsr'es Rtnhlson. yrho waa ar
rested In Washington. D- 0., and a acore
or other witnesses summoned by the
State 1rr an effort to substantiate Its
cv-g ' pui'der
Bo weariert by the tedluin "f b se
lection of the Jurors wns Trlre that
he paid no attention and seemed un
conscious of the presence of. a staff
of motion p'eture operators In the
rourtmom. Kven when the camera
was placed on the press table a few
fet aw-av, from him and the operator
cranked the mschlne for a close study
of his fsce, the prisoner rald no at
tention to anything but the anrwers
mde bv prospective. Jurors,
Fred H. SearK a grorer clled from
his store as a prospective Juror, quick
ly gained hla own release He said
that even though he might live a
reasonable doubt as to the Sf or
innocence of Price, after hefng all
th testimony, he would still vote for
flrictlea.
THAT TORPEDO
UK IN
PBICE TRIAL!
Electric Users Here
Taxed To Pay Dividend
Of Street Railway Co.
Latter Gets Its Current at Less Than Cost, Then Sells
At a Handsome Profit to Certain Sub
sidiary Car Companies.
c xf
4J V
CaUEht comine and icoine. the
ington are not only paying fat. dividends into the pockets of the own
ers of the Potomac Electric Company, but likewise arc furnishing the
profits for the owners of the Washington Railway and Electric Com
pany. It is because of this, in part, that the electric light consumers of
this city are not getting cheaper rates. It is in spite of this that the
patrons of the Washington Railway and Electric Company are riding
on flat-wheeled cars. As a tribute to the public patience with public
service corporations the story of the relationship existing between the
Potomac Electric Power Company and the Washington Railway and
Electric Company is a monument of remarkable structure.
In a previous articles in this series the articles having ap
peared daily this week in The Times it has been shown that the
bane of every electric light and power company is to find customers
for its current in daylight hours, when lights arc not burning around
the city and the demand for current is otherw:se far below the maxi
mum capacity, or "peak load' of the plant.
It has also been shown why, for that reason, an electric power
company which supplies current to a street railw.ay is favored, even
though it sells the current at small profit.
A- . ' . r i lL' ; T., ij , .i. j
getting-its current from -the Potomac Electric Power Company thd
siiuauuu uugiu m uc ua ihvuihuic
. !. .f .-..- ..'.
case in otner cities wncre a similar arrangement ODtains.
In Washington the reverse is true. The Washington Railway and
Electric Company does not pay the Potomac Electric Power Company
a small profit. It pays the power company no profit. It gets its cur
rent at less that cost. And then, a part of this current that it gets
at less than cost the Washington Railway and Electric Company resells
(Continued on Fourth Page.)
MUffll READY EIGHT jflKin
TO INVADE GREECE Mil MO
Austrian, German, and Bulgar
Forces Concentrate For
Drive Against Saloniki.
LONDON". .Ian. 8. Invasion of Greece
by armies of the central empires Is
about to begin, according to dispatches
from several widely scattered sources
today
A dlapatch from Saloniki reports
that the Bulgarians have resumed their
concentration along the Greek border
In the last forty-eight hours, and that
It Is believed the campaign to drive the
allies from Greece will open within a
few dajs. Anglo-French aerial scouts
are most active along the Bulgarian
t. . .,,iti. i. mnvh. rnrrH
from Saloniki and the allies are ,
making every preparation to meet the
expected aiiacK.
hn nrrfi.r. tn mnv e lmmMlnl.lv
against fialoplkl, the Frankfurter
Zeltupg declares. The railway lead-'
Ing ROUthward through Serbia taa een
repairu anu hiiiiici- nni4 jiiuniiiunv
sent forward to the front.
Slmllnr renorts came from Athens
and Rome todav. Athens icports the
continuous ai rival of Bulga .u troops
at the border and adds thai a squad
ron of Austrian aviators has arrived
at Monastlr. Some of the Bulgarian
forces reaching the border are freh
from the Albanian campaign against
the Serbs, It Is reported,
Rome newspapers print dispatches
from several sources today, declaring
that the first battle on Greek soil Is
Imminent.
Austrian Attacks in
Vicinity of Goritz Are
Repulsed By Italians
ROMK. Jan. f, Repulse of Auatrlan at
tacks in the vclnltv of Goritz and am.
cessful artlllerv bombardments In the
Cndore end Csrnla recion weie ropsre
td ty General Gordon todnv,
Near onte Croco, Aus'.ilan de'ach
mepts were dispersed. In Carnla. Itall.iii
guna demolished severa? enemy trerun -s.
Two Austrian aviators who attcnipt-'d
a raid on Verona were driven baik oy
Italian gunners.
Depots Are Blown Up
By French Artillery
PARIS Jan. 5 (delayed). French ar
tlllerv blew up German ammunition
depots In the Champsgne region snd
vrecked enemy works northwest cf
Vsilly, the par office reported tonight
She w&htatitm me
. , , C!!L , .
WASHINGTON, THUKSDAY EVENING-, JANUABY 6, 1916.
TO END HALF -
Bffivvm.nQ
- A &4ASIkJS
electric light consumers of Wash-
lur wc power cuiimauy as 15 iiig
.'..."'
Steamer Blown Against Pier
Near Parkersburg and Soon
Founders.
PAJlKBrtSRURG. W. Va.. .Inn. K -Might
persons aremlsilng and are be
lieved to have been drowned when mo
unio nvei siramooai ivanawna vaa
hlOTvn against the pier of dam No. i...
Plfht mllen .null, of hr l.t niirnr
and sunk in
thlrt-two feet of natei
The accident occuired duilng a Heavy
rainstorm thatMind put out the ligm
house signal and prevented cries or
those on boaid the' vessel from reach
ing shore.
norh.ri nif r.,. , r ,. k.i ..
' Herbert olf, purer of the boat, i
thought lo have been drowned in an
effort to save others. I.em Lan.ion.
survivor,
said Wolf iruirne.1 to the
SlnKing boat and "'
not seen nr- i
, Cnpt. Lloyd Ge. atenaid of the boat.
is unaccounted for.
Caul. i.niUv lleiry lloated down-
i .ram
"rfam
rescued
,.,,. . . ,. . .
vi ilii uir inunv.iia nun wa?
at midnight. Ile believer an
passcngcis weie saved The KiiiMvvnn
can led n crew of fortv-rlve, and had
tJilrtv -six passeugeta when it leti neir,
an 'toui bcrnie the disaster.
Th bunt's ierNtei wan lct and
here
Is bo menu of t-herklug up ,iro-s
itiul mlBsliis. The Baltlmme and Ohio
rallioad rni r sptc.iii tuiiii ti the
(Continued on Second Page.)
E
E
OIN'A rOLTP. Md. Jan -United
..n nCur ..!ni tvaicer mum
atrnln defeated his colleague, Senator
biair i.ee, wnen the Murvlnmt hnusj
Of delegates elected Phllln U Laird.
of Montgomery county, spenker, after
a iwentv-four-hour deadlock.
The election took place less than a
hslf hour after Ihe second dy of the
1!M6 session opened at AnnaprlM. at
noon today. i
Mr. Laird was nominated' bv dele
gate Robert F, Le, nf Ralttmrf'ie city,
Mavoi Preston? secretary, and the
mouthplire of the Lee-Preston com-blnaUoiu
LAIRD IS SP
lie of
MARYLAND
HI
A A
MAN
SPLITS WITH
FORD PARTY
Rexford L. Holmes Threatens to
Unlrl I In ITvnArlitinn Dw Quinn
"u,u WH uahbuiuuii uj ouiuy
memrjers oi rariy.
LEAVES DELEGATES' EMPLOY
May File Proceedings Because
of Remarks Said to Have
Been Made About Him.
flex ford L. Holmes the Washington
nun nho nailed with the Ford peaee ex
petition as heiil of Its stenographic ile
naitment. Is thieatenlng to prevent thr
dcpaiture of the nartv for Th? liagun
tomorrow, according to dispatches re
ceived from Copenhagen.
Holmes, the cable as. has severed
hU connection nith the expedition, and
Is contemplating Instituting lal pro
Lcedlnss unless ceitaln remarks alleged
to hvc biy&n made about him by mem
lieu of the steering committee are with
dmutl. ahoulil he 1 1c suit of courte. It would
be lmiosil)lc (01 the ptit) to proceed
through GcnnnnK tomorrow.
h cxpediikm 'ln - Washington pruc-
ticaiiy from the 'time,. ot its inception
itount-s acituas ptrconai aseni .or
inenil
pern of the iarr,.,Ai.,wx!ll
frrm nlh.r .lln V"
as several
firm other ellloS. "
There was nothing in the dlspstch to
show that other Vasbltigtonlans con
necied with the expedition are affected
by this new split in the party.
i 'I ito toiiiiMlng caniegram trom Holmes
'was received U his Washington oltloe
I tort,i
; "Rexford Holmes January 6. went
beioie steering committee Ford expe-
i uiiivii demanding public apologv, ataie-
i ments b Lochner. Schnlmmer, anu
l"0lantlff that Hoinien crooked and nl
1 tempted steal IS,OiW and put on expense
I account Kalling receive apology.
I Holmes enters suits. Denmark ma
i hold party from The Hague, hentlmcnt
favors tioimes Accusations insured
explanation satiafactori . McCiure ana
Judge Lindscy for Holmes. Schwlmmer
verv unpopular. Holmes dismlasea.
Kxpedltlon continues. .Newspaper ar
ticles American syndicate. These nav
helped rouse official wrath because
truthful. "llOLMBii.
bupposcdlv, the last two sentences
refer in newspaper work done, by
Holmes in addition to his duties as a
i' oi (l employe
:Ford Peace Delegates
Shun Dancers Clad in
Airy Classic Costumes
COHJMIAGI'N, Jan. 6. Because
some uiill.v-clad 'classic" dancers
weic on tiit- DioKiam, tne Kord pe&e
unity villi not attend a reception ar
iut,K,.d 5y t)ie loral tuoclet.v of Ksper
, untlsis. it was anno'iucea inany.
Han the maltei been put to a. vote,
the invitation plODaDly
vould hav
Kmam nr.j.At.lA.l 1.1 t VO I 1VM tt I m I Y -
i,oii,. u,,, ty... is,. .inL-in i.IaviI
',i0nes and other members of the steer-
Inir committee decided classic dances
not strictly symbolical of the move
ment for peace.
The Danish dulegatlon to The Hague,
peace conferenee Is neurly complete.
Sven Lance, th novillst. Olaf Forch-
i hammer, pifsldent or tne Lopenbagen
I p Society, and Commodore Blume.
I t int l.i it nlnrar fit fnt m . t T liCA Tit I
" " , J Kri "
' Several Anfilcan delegute. now
ihorinig'tly saturated with Iiome.ilcU
iiiTs, arc piepurlng U teavo the party
and -all dlrett liom Copenhagen for
I n..
' liwilir.
FEAR THESSJO NIKA
I
NEW YORK. Jan. -The Gieek liner
Thessalonlka. whose misfortunes In the
heavy weather off Nantucket lightship
kept ahlpplug circles In anxiety for two
Weeks, today was believed to havo gone
to tl c bottom.
The crew was reported to have been
taken off late yesterday by the Anchor
line freighter Perugia, a new figure Irt
the search for tne mysteriously Ill
fated ship. .
Wireless advices trom me acar.mnav
lan-Amertcan liner
United States said
she waa abandoning the search as th
perugla reported tsKing off the crew
land opening the Thesaalonlka's sea-
i cocks,
Anxletv mntnucd for the Thessalon-
Ika'.s 300 passengers, who. though res
rued by the Patrls, also of the Greek
line, were feared to have run Into
more peril. Tho Patrls, carrying ample
wireless equipment, lies not reported
since taking off the r sengers. She,l
believed (o be makl" New York.
"Florida A 1rnt lndlnn Limited."
Atlantic Coast Line, 3:05-p. m, dally.
Only tra'ii arrylng through sleeper to
Orlando md Tampa with one night out
ervlce. Office, 14M tN.k Y, av. nw.
ATU
HAS GONE TO BOTTOM
Washingtonian Who May
Break Up Peace Trip.
HL IBlBSassH '
ssssHssBP ssi
BBBBBBBBbIVuRFOv. JlflBBSBBBBBBBH
bbbbKVTOmsIsbVuboPbbbbH
bbV Ssb8,L bUbbbB
REXFORD L. HOLLIES.
LINER SAFE AFTER
E CHASE
Steamer Karnak, With 230
Passengers Aboard, Reaches
Marseilles After Flight.
MARSKTLLER. Jan. B.-The French
steamer Karnak. carrvlng 250 passen
gers, was chased all nlcht In the Medi
terranean by a submarine, but eluded
the submersible and arrived here todav,
She brought survivors of the British
steamers Mlddleton and Abella. subma
rine victims.
The submarine abandoned the chare at
dawn today. When the Karnak put Into
Marseilles many of the passengers were
hysterical from fright.
"The submarine sighted ua at about
dunk last night." said one of the Kar
nak' f officers. "The captain ordeied
full steam ahead, and we raced for it
through a heavy storm our bow split
ting big waves.
"Passengers and the crews of t!e
Abella and Nccddleton. having pust es
caped after their vessels had been sunk,
were r,o terror-stricken their plight wns
pitiful. Some of the men gathered at
the stern when the chase began and
watched the submarine, but most of
Ihem were too badly fnlghtened.
"The submarine was a big boat, about
SO feet long. Apparently she was as
fast as we were, but the big waves
bothered her and proved our salvation.
When the chahc began 'we could see
her ripping through tho waves, some
times almost hidden from sight.
"All the passengers put on life bolts
and the boats were swung out. Every
body got fully dressed nnd satHn tl.e
smoking-room all night while the Kar
nak rushed on for Marseilles. We kept
sigzaglng tn keep tho submarine from
risking n chance shot nt us."
Frantic tappings, as of feet striking
against bars of Iron, alarmed the Sixth;
Precinct Stntlon early today. Station
Keeper Jctt, Investigating, found th
body of William Stone, fifty, who had
been locked up some hours before on n.
charce of Intoxication, hanclnsr from,
I the cmas bar of the cell door by hi
belt. Stone died before he reached Cas
ualty Hospital in the ambulance which
was summoned.
Jelt savs he talked to the prisoner and
gavo him a drink of water a few min
utes after 1 o'clock. At 1:10 he was
alarmed by the tanning of Stone's feet.
When he discovered the situation he cut
the belt, and, with Policeman Vaughan
and Lieutenant Uunnlgan. resorted to
flrpt aid, measures, jjfter sending for the
ambulance with. Dr. Shlnn. of Casualty.
Coroner Nevltt Is Investigating, The
police have learned that until a ahort
time ago Stone was c.nployed as a
salesman In a stoie near Ninth street
and Pennsylvania avenue northwest,
and for a time lived at til l'cnns)lvanla
avenue.
MAN
FINDS PHI ONE
HA N BY BELT
AND - HALF
DISTRICT TAX PLAN
CRITICISED IN REPORT
OF JOINT COMMITTEE
Legislators Find That Responsibility in Tax
ation of Residents Here Should Be As
In Other Cities Would Have Govern
ment Expend Funds Thus Collected.
Finding that the contributions of the Federal govern
ment to the upkeep of the District of Columbia should be
regular and liberal, but that there is no longer necessity
ior an arbitrary division of expenses, the joint Congres
sional committee' named to investigate the fiscal relations
between the District and Federal Governments made its
report to Congress today.
The' committee is unanimous in recommending that
the half and half plan be abolished at once, but that this
principle must be continued, as a matter of legal right, in
connection with the payment of the city's existing funded
debt.
Of vital importance is the' recommendation of the
committee that .when the residents of the District have paid
fair and reasonable taxes their responsibility for the main
tenance of the Capital shall cease.
Under this recommendation it would be possible for
the Federal Government to contribute even more than 50
per cent ot the governmental expense of the District.
In effect repudiating the George taxation report, the
committee finds that the present assessment of real estate
in Washington is fair and reasonable and that the present
tax rate also is fair and equitable.
The committee's conclusions are summarized in the
following paragraph of the report:
We find after a most careful consideration of all of
the evidence and circumstances as shown to exist at this
time, that there is no reason for any arbitrary rule of pro
portionate contribution for the expenses of the District of
Columbia by thp residents thereof and by the people of
the United States who reside outside the District of Co
lumbia; that the correct rule should be that the responsi
bility in taxation of the resident's of the District of Colum
f bia be as fixed and certain as the responsibility of residents
' of other American cities comparable with the city of
Washington; that with the payment of such taxes as may
be equitably and properly assessed against privately
owned taxable property, the financial responsibility of the
residents of the District should be concluded; that the
present assessment valuation of privately owned real
estate in Washington is fair and reasonable; that the sum
of money collected as such taxes be paid into the Treasury
of the United States, there to be incorporated into a trust
fund for the benefit of the District of Columbia and that
the revenues thus collected be expended in the govern
ment of the District of Columbia and for no other pur
pose; that the United States pay from its moneys all the
balance of whatever sum is deemed necessary to appro
priate for the proper municipal expenses of the District
of Columbia after consideration of the reports and esti
mates of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia
and the needs of said District; and as a conclusion, which
should be of the greatest weight, we urge upon Congress
that its appropriations for the expenses of the District of
Columbia should always be in such sum as will not only
continue the city of Washington and the District of Co
lumbia in every respect as the splendid and beautiful cen
tral residence of this great nation, but also cause it to be
come and be forever maintained, as a model for all the
cities of the' world.
THE CONCLUDING PROPOSALS.
The concluding recommendation of the report of th
committee reads:
"Our unanimous conclusion is that the rate of. tax
tion in the District should be fixed and certain;
"That the Congress should pursue a definite policv
of regular and liberal appropriations, having in view not
only the permanent moral and physical advancement of the
city, but also its pre-eminent beauty and grandeur as the
municipal expression of the nation's home and its people'
pride."
While the committee does not accept the proposition
of Senator Works and Commissioners Newman an,1
Brownlow that all District funds shall be turned into th:
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts, it does recommenl
that District taxes shall be paid into a trust fund and shall
(Continued on Page Eleventh.)
HOME
EDITION
PBTCE ONE CENT.
