Ashland
IDINGS
"Ashland Grows While Lithla Flows"
City of Sunshine and Flowers
Ashland, Oregon. Lithla Springs
"The Carlsbad of America"
ASHLAND. OREGON, THURSDAY, JANUARY G. 191 G
VOL. XL
NUMBER G5
Outlines Plans
Before Club
Before the Commercial Club Mon
day night Mr. Creer gave a short re
view of the work which had been
done by the springs commission and
the further needs of Ashland. He
Council Committees
Are Appointed
The mayor named the following
committees to take care of the vari
ous departments of the city's busi
ness for the coming year. If citizens
will clip this list and when matters
stated that, now that the hotel propo-!come up which require the attention
sltion was practically assured, Ash-1 of the council, take the matters to
land should make preparations with the committee under which head they
the end In view of getting an up-to-jcome, much needless delay will be
date bathhouse started. The Idea, as : avoided.
he suggested, being to have one Here are the standing committees
where those desiring the different appointed by Mayor Johnson Monday
kinds of baths could get them, such night:
as Turkish, mud, vapor and electric
rubs, and that a great deal of money
would not be necessary at the pres
ent time, but that the proposition
could be started much on the same
plan that the hotel proposition was
Finance Root, Ashcraft, Nlnln
ger. .
Ordinance Banta, Lamb, Cornel
ius. Water Ashcraft, Banta, Lamb.
Electric Lamb, Ashcraft, Cornel-
solved. Mr. Greer stated that he ius.
thought $10,000 would be sufficient
money to start with. It was moved
and seconded that a committee of
three or five be appointed to investi
gate the proposition and see what can
be done, and to act much the same
as the hotel committee, which had
accomplished their purpose.
Mr. Greer then outlined the plans
which the commission have In mind
for the future. He stated that they
Intended to Initiate an amendment to
the city charter providing for three
Important Items.' ' That this would
1m done by initiative, rather than
through the council, as the council
were almost entirely new men and
were not In touch with the situation,
and that the election would be held
by the first of April, this year. The
items to be voted on would be as fel
lows: That the jurisdiction of
Lithla Park be turned over to the
springs commission; that the commis
sion be authorized to Issue warrants
not to exceed $(,000 in any one year
for five year for publicity purposes;
and that the springs commission be
authorized to issue warraiU not to
exceed $6,000 in any one year for
five years for the upkeep and main
tenance of Llthia Park. Mr. Greer
then stated that he would not expect
to be on the commission to spend
this money owing to increased duties
connected with his paper, but that
he did want to see the measures
carry, and that he would support his
successor, whoever he might be. The
matter was brought before the club
simply as an announcement .in order
that the individual members would
have time to think the matter over,
and no action by the club was deenied
necessary.
Street Cornelius, Root, Ninlnger.
Cemetery Ninlnger, Lamb, Cor
nelius. Fire Banta, Cornelius, Root.
Indigent Root, Ninlnger, Banta.
As the city board of health, com
posed of two doctors and three coun
cllmen of which one of the doctors
Is chairman Mayor Johnson ap
pointed Dr. F. G. Swedenburg, Dr. G.
W. Gregg, Councllmen Ninlnger,
Root and Ashcraft. '
Celebration For .
Formal Opening
The first gun was fired in the
campaign for the biggest celebration
Ashland has ever known, to celebrate
the formal opening of Llthia park as
the greatest mineral water park on
the coast, was fired at the Commer
cial Club meeting Monday night when
H. O. Frohbach brought up the prop
osition of -a great celebration for the
opening of the springs, suggesting
that It be made about three days in
length, and providing amusement for
all, old and young, and moved that
a committee of three or five be ap
pointed to arrange all the details for
the same. - Mayor Johnson seconded
the motion and stated that he was
heartily In favor of the movement.
He stated that there could be no fire
works, but that arrangements could
be made to take care of the young
sters in a much better way, and one
that would be pleasing to them. This
plan will be announced later. The
motion carried.
Those who will take charge of the
plans will begin immediately to plan
for the "greatest ever" Ashland
event.
Honored For
Long Service
At the Methodist Sunday school
Sunday morning, the followibg reso
lutions were lead as adopted by the
Sunday school board: '
"Whereas, Brother G..F. Billings
has been for many yean the accept
able and efficient superintendent of
our Sunday school, which-under his
leadership has grown to be one of the
largest and most efficient in south
ern Oregon, and from its ranks have
gone many young men and women
to fill places of responsibility and in
fluence in ttye world, the horizon of
thefr lives being greatly enlarged be
cause of the visions they received in
this Sunday school.
"WhereaB, he has devoted large
measures of time, energy, prayer and
financial means to the Sunday school
and its work, the members of the
Sunday school board des're to ex
press, in behalf of the Sunday school
and church, their great appreciation
of his devotion and labors of love.
"We most sincerly thank him and ;
City Attorney Moore and Chief
Porter Re-Appointed To Office
Empress Bill For
Tonight Is Good
Police Care For
16,805 Idle Men
The Oresonian has this to say The annual report of the chief of
The most Interesting feature or j councilman Mninger then stated " uul l" ljlli,rt'SH vauueviue urn to ponce was read at Tuesday's council
the council meeting Tuesday night, to that he saw no reason for not con- i be at tlie vlnin8 Theatre tonight. A meeting and contained several "eye-
seven-piece orchestra under the lead- openers for thoRe who believe the
crship of Harry Howell will furiilHli Ashland police have nothing to do,
music: The hobo question Is the one biggest
"They'd have to grade Lil Ker- police problem in Ashland. The city
Blake's trained pigs at the Empress helng a railroad division point and
the public at least, was the appoint-j firming the appointment, and then if
ment of the police officers and the. charges were brought against Mr.
city attorney. : Sorter and proven, he would be the
Mayor Johnson appointed W. J.iflrst t0 reverse his vote. This
Moore, who has given excellent satis-! brought the "rat burst of applause
faction In the past, attorney for the!from the audience. Mr. Lamb stated this wk high on Intellect, even it at the foot of a greaj mountain
flint tin ti .1 H. it
coming vear. Mr. Banta asked that , over u.e ponce rec
over applications be considered byoria an1 fo'"(1 everything in fine
the council and stated that while , "ha"e- The council then ratified the
Mr. Moore was his attorney, he be-1 appointment, Banta and Root voting
lleved the city could hire a cheaper jno
man. He stated that this was one of The appointment of Patrolman
the points upon which many had (Wimer was unanimously ratified and
spoken to him, and that he made the after much discussion it was decided
demand In the Interests of the city. ; to temporarily try getting along with
Mr. Johnson asked Mr. Banta why one patrolman besides the chief. The
he wanted the city to take another old members of the council did not
man because he could be secured for take favorably to the reduction, but
less money when he personally wasj since the new members all stated
willing to pay Mr. Moore's prices fori, that there had been more sentiment
services. After some little discussion 'j over this one thing than any other,
the appointment was confirmed,) , It was decided to make the experl-
Councllmen Root and Banta voting, ment. The mayor and the chief of
no.
Mayor Johnson then re-appolnted
Chief of Police Porter. A long and,
at times, heated discussion followed.
Mr. Banta and Mr. Root opposed the j
police explained the work which the
department was called upon to do
and the territory covered, the hand
ling of the transient Idle men being
the big problem, and the depot being
appointment and asked for a delay.ll 80 fa"-from the business section being
That charges were to be brought1 the main reason for the need of two
against the chief of police was inti
mated by Mr. Banta, who wished
time for Investigation. The mayor
stated that he had invited many peo
ple, including Mr. Banta, to bring
charges . against Chief Porter, and
t" many were willing f.Q accuse the
chief of variouB things but none
would put a definite charge down in
writing and sign their name.
. Mr. Banta stated that charges had
been brought against the chief and
made the statement that the Minis
terial Association was behind him,
but they did not wish to make charg
es public. Recorded Gillette - an
swered that no charges bad ..been
filed.
men at night. The cost of the extra
man was computed at 18 cents per
capita by Mr. Lamb and at 90 cents
per taxpayer a year, by Mr. Root.
The final decision was to try the
change temporarily, and Patrolman
Earl Rasor will be let off.
The appointments of C. W. Fraley,
street commissioner, A. L. Strick
land, electrical superintendent, and
Earl Hosier, water superintendent,
were all unanimously confirmed. AH
of these gentlemen are the present
Incumbents.
The mayor stated that the other
appointments in the electrical depart
ment would come later.
they did fall down on sausage-pro- "'Pans that nearly every box-car tour-
duclng characteristics. Understand, iBt stops off In Ashland from a few
the pigs are not bony nor starved hours to a day, and the handling of
looking, but, on the other hand, .none these undesirable transients is a bl
of them Incline to the Frlganza'phy- problem.
slque. Their act Is rather strenuous The report states further that 11,
and looks like it would beat dieting 593 hoboes were housed at Fourth
as a reducer. street station, 5,141 were sent out of
"Martyn and Florence have a Jug- town during the day, seventy-nine
gllng act which has the cleverness j were sent out of parks between the
and finish that lifts It entirely out of Plaza and the lower intake. Total
the ordinary rank. They have lots; Idle men handled, 16,803. During
of new feats.
"Marie Dreams has a remarkable
baritone voice and commands encore
after encore with her singing.
"The Hunters have a pretty musi
cal novelty that is a great favorite
the year night patrolmen found 257
business doors and windows open.
During the year 2,292 gallons of
liquor were Imported Into the city by
common carriers.
General conditions during the year
with the audience, and Walton and were verv Bood-the on,v maJr crlmo
Brandt put over a fine line of base
ball patter and singing.
"Eddie Herron and Madge Doug
lass offer a one-act comedy, "Birds
of a Feather," in which two high
class crooks succeed in trimming one
another."
First Meeting
Of New Council
,.- t
( Y
V f' "I :
w
G. F. Billings, Made Superintendent
Kinoritus of the Methodist Sunday
School,
Famous Violinist
Coming To Vining
Skovgaard, the famous Scandinavi
an, proclaimed by many the world's
greatest genius on the violin, will be
here with the New York Metropolitan
Company of six great artists. This
will be an opportunity for Ashland
and the valley to hear the best there
is in music today combined in a pro
gram so pleasing .that it has taken
the country by storm, and the theatre
where Skovgaard plays In every city
is the Mecca for all classes of people.
The great violinist will be here on
January 15 at the Vining Theatre.
Ohio has 160,000 drug victims.
assure him that the passing years
alone can reveal the full measure and
worth of the work he has done.
While he may no longer be the active
head of our Sunday school, he will be
the honored superintendent emeritus
with a place in our counsels, our love
and our esteem."
After reading the resolutions the
pastor In a brief talk presented to
Mr. Billings a beautiful, leather up
holstered chair, a token from the
church and Sunday school of appre
ciation of his years of service. He
superintended the school twenty- j
eight years. Previous to that he su-
perlntended other Sunday schools for
years, making in all forty-four years
of work. But few men can boast of
such a record. In honor of these
years of service he was made super
intendent emeritus.
A good attendance of citizens was
present at the first meeting of the
new council held last Tuesday even
ing, attracted for the greater part by
the rumors of contention' over the
appointments for the year. The new
council took charge of the city's bus
iness without superfluous formalities.,
The mayor's message was read and
well received. Following this the ap
pointments of committees for the
year were made by the mayor as re
ported elsewhere, also the appoint
ment of city employes.
Councilman Ashcraft was elected
chairman of the council to take the
chair when the mayor Is unable t
occupy it.
The mayor presented a document
to the indigent committee which had
been prepared during the two years
Mr. Ware served on that committee,
and which the mayor stated was a
most valuable collection of data
which would provide the legal action
which could be taken In any of the
emergencies which this committee
are obliged to meet
Thirty-Four Deaths
Average Age of 78
A remarkable record for longevity
becomes evident from the annual re
port of City Sexton Walrad for the
5'fear 1915. Fifty-four bodies, were
buried in the Ashland cemeteries
during the year, fifteen of these be
ing non-residents. Of the thirty
nine local deaths, thirty-four of the
deceased averaged 78 years of age.
. For the last quarter seventeen
were buried, five of which were nonresidents.
nam for street superintendent. Ap
pointments already having been made
for these positions, In regular order,
they were laid on the table.
The Gamewell Company of Seattle
presented an offer to install their
improved fire alarm system in Ash
land for $562 stating that they are
removing their headquarters from
Seattle to San Francisco, hence the
low price. Two years ago they
wanted approximately $1,200 for the
same system. The fire committee
was ordered to investigate. It was
stated that the system is a good one
F. M. Carter Died
Monday at Eugene
F. M. Carter, a resident of Ashland
for twenty years prior to 1908, for
some time manager of the Ashland
Ice and Storage Company and promi
nent in social and business life in
Ashland, died at Eugene Monday fol
lowing a few days' Illness. Mr, Car
ter was a nephew of E. V. Carter of
Ashland. His wfe was a former Ash
land girl, Miss Katherine Godfrey.
The funeral was held yesterday from
the E. V. Carter home on the Boule
vard, interment in Ashland cemetery.
The Eugene Register prints the
following:
"Fred M. Carter, president and
manager of the Eugene Tee. and Stor
age Company, died suddenly at his
home at 292 Twelfth avenue west in
this city yesterday at 9 a. m., at the
age of 39 years. lie had been III
only a few days, suffering from la
grippe. He became worse Sunday
Jr s 'iS
and .that Ashland's present system Is
The report of the city electrician, 1 inadequate.
annual report of the park board and j ronn,Impn T.nmIl nnnt nml .ah
A. C. Xininger, Xewly Elecletl Conn
cllnmii from Third Wurcl.
being the Greenfield tragedy when
the postoffice clerk shot and wound
ed Postmaster Kaiser and committed
suicide.
Minor offenses were taken care of
by the police without arrests or at
least without formal trials. In the
majority of cases where complaints
were made the report states the com
plaining parties were unwilling to
allow their names to be used in prose
cution, and unless sufficient evidence
was evident to secure a sure convic
tion, these classes of cases were han
dled with a warning to the offend
ers. , . .
Infringements of the automobile,
and other ordinances were punished
by fine or imprisonment, only In ex
treme cases it being the policy of the
department to issue warnings and ex
plain the law. .
. The report was most complete and
showed very good moral and sanitary
conditions In Ashland.
The arrests for the year were tab
ulated as follows:
Intoxication 13
Vagrancy 4
Theft 8
Violating traffic ordinances... 44
Forgery 3
Assault and battery ,. 3
Miscellaneous 59
Total 134
Consolidate With
Commercial Club
report of the police department for
the year were read and approved.
craft were appointed a special com
mitteo to take up the matter of re-
ine report O! me screei comm.sSK,n-,I)airfllg the cty ,lathe pen)ent
er and the quarterly report of Sexton eoatng of wh,ch g fanK away rom
Walrad were also approved. the cornlce on the plaza Me Ml.
Mountain avenue citizens peti-.T.mh Ym.oaso,, tllo hoIIn, tw
tioned for six street lights on their
cement coating could never be made
thoroughfare and three on B street to Bt,ck nd thflt ft meta)1c
near the Juncture of the two. mey ghoul(, be put onthe C0Ht ot wnit.h
called attention to their unfortunate j wouId be about 108 Tne cement
proximity to the railroad hobo camp1 on the front whch )g of new
and the consequent danger to life 'construction Is Btlll ln g00(1 gha)e.
night and died unexpectedly next
morning. Ills condition was not con
sidered serious until Sunday.
"Mr. Carter was born In Iowa in
1S7G. lie came west in 1SS5 and
One of the most Important propo
sitions which have been before the
Ashland Commercial Club, and ona
which means more to the club than
any recent proposition, was brought
up Monday night at the regular meet
ing when an amendment to the con
stitution, providing for the organiza
tion of bureaus within the club, wast
given first reading. It will be acted
upon at the next regular meeting In
thirty days. This action was taken
in View of the fact that the Business
Men's Association wish to become af
filiated with the Commercial Club,
and it Is expected that plans for the
same will be completed during this
month, and the two organizations
will be under the same head and the
work of Mr. Heed ns secretary will
be taken over by Mr. Norrls, secre
tary of tlio club. This Is a vey es
sential move for both organizations
The total length of the world's rail
ways is estimated at 600,000 miles.
Johnson the Jeweler for fine watch
work. 97-tf
Imitation ivory is obtained from
the nut of a kind of palm which
grows- in South America.
and property. The matter was re
ferred to the electric light committee
with power ;to act.
Cashier McCoy for the First Na
tional Bank asked permission to
adorn the front of that establish
ment with a chime clock which will
be an ornament as well as a con
venience to the city. The street com,
mittee was given authority to act in
the matter.
The small tract of land adjacent
to the septic tank in North Ashland
was again let to Mr. Hash for pastur
age purposes at an annual rental of
$30. It is about three acres and is
largely covered with, underbrush.
Applications for appointment were
read as follows: C. B. Watson for
city attorney, D. D. Good for chief of
police, James Fewel and F. L. Put-
Mr. !
Carter came to Eugcno In 190S with
his fnnillv and built the Ice factory
The recorder was given authority , , , d t the foot of Ferrv 8tre(,t,
to pay for a carload of water pipe Up tQ Ule time of ,,,g death he re
went to Mexico City, Mexico, where' , , fi t , , fh t
he remained only three years. The j Bet.togl.tllcr movement In Ashland.
family then came to Oregon and set-
tied at Ashland, where they were'
prominent In the business and social JgC0nQ OCfflCSier
life of the city for many years.
now on track, also to have the neces
sary changes made In the matter of
telephones furnished free to city
councflmen.
In conformity with usage a special
committee was appointed to take up
the annual audit of the city recorder's
books Councllmen Root and Ash
craft being assigned that duty.
The ordinance committee was or
dered to present at the next meeting
a set of rules for the government of
council meetings it being the cus
tom for each cpuncll to promulgate
its own order of business. Chairman
Banta of the ordinance committee
spoke In favor of fixing the meeting
hour at 7:30 for all seasons.
mained as the active head of the com
pany operating the plant.
"Mr. Carter leaves his father, F. II.
Carter, of Eugene, two brothers,
Henry B. Carter of Eugene and G. R.
Carter of Talent; his wife, Hwo
daughters, Alice and Margaret Car
ter, and a son, Frank Carter.
"The family ever since coming
here have been foremost In social and
club work and the death of Mr. Car
ter casts a gloom over a wide circle
of warm friends. The remains will
be taken to Ashland tonight for burial."
Phosphate of lime has been discov
ered in the Canadian Rockies.
Starts January 17
The second semester of the Ash
land schools begins on Monday, Janu
ary 17. All pupils who will be six
years old by March 4, 1916, will be
eligible to enter school at tho be
ginning ot this semester. According:
to Superintendent Briscoe, the class
es at the midyear are smaller than
the first of the year classes, and it
will be much to the children's advan
tage to enter them at this time. More
personal supervision may be given
the child ln his or her work. Here
tofore parents have hesitated before
starting their children to school in
the winter weather, but the advant
ages ot the midyear classes should
more than overbalance the dlsad-.
vantages.
