IXs
VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, .JANUARY G, 191 G.
NUMBER 28.
0. S. NEUTRALITY
POLICY ATTACKED
III THE SEMITE
Senator Works Protests against
Government Allowing Passen
gers to Travel on Ships Car
rying Munitions of War.
EMBARGO QN ARMS SUGGESTED
Such an Act Now, Says Senator
Lodge, in Reply, Would Be
I. "Worth More to Germany Than
a Million Men and Would He
Grossly Unneutral as Well.
Washington, Jan. 5 Rends of irstraint
RRHlnRt public dlsou'slun of International
l Hatlons or the Fnltcd Suites Incident
to the Kuiopc.ui war weie broken 111 the
Senate to-day, find for longer than an
hour the session avhs enlivened by debate
, over the government's nciitiallty policy,
exports ot war inuulilnhs and tl'avel by
American citizens on "illlgijient-owneU
ships.
PARTY LINKS AROLISIIKD.
There was no division ot the debater?
along party line"!. Senator .tones of Wash
ington, republican, denounced as "un
patriotic" American eitlens who im
perilled the nation by taking passage en
rielltgcicrit vessels. Senator Works of
California, republican, asserted that the
Kovornment of the rnlted Stales was
"hvpocrltlcnlly" claiming to bi- neutral
when It was In fan piuilcipating In ihu
war through the sale of munitions. Sena
tor Lodge, ranking lopubli an member
of the foreign relations committee, de
clared that to place an embargo on arms
now would be worth more to Ortnntiy
than p million men, that it would be n
' crossly unneutral act" and would In fact
make (he Fnitod States Hie allv of Her
m.in.v. Senators ") hit man of Xclv Yuri!
and Hitchcock of Nebraska, both elemo
rats, in ceil the advlsabllit of an em
bargo mi munitions.
The ellseu-sinn ra precipitated when
Senator .lones read a newspaper eillteii lul
uigitig Amcilcaii citizens to Keep off belli
gerent ships and advising the. t'i evident to
1 pioceed slowh In tho present crisis heed
ing the Intere t of !i'ii,cri American",
i lather Hiaii hat of a "thousand reckless,
' llieoiijddrr.ite and unpatiloilc i.ti?en nln
( Inblst on traveling on belligerent ships."
CITF.S LUSITANJA CASK
Senator Nelson of .Minnesota, iepul.ll
. rati, aroused Senator O'dnrman tiy asking
t "Whether Senator Jones lognrdi'd Consul
MeNcrly unpatriotic because ho sailed lor
1 po;tt on the Persia. After the Nov
Tori? senator had explained that McNeel,
1 hail declined to heed Constil-flonernl Skui
ner'a advice to sail on a Dutch ship, Pcn
jetor Works blazed Hie way to General do
liate on thn position of the United State
! In the war hv declaring the American
pen eminent was not neutral. Asserting
il the outset that the government shaied
l cspon"lbillty for deaths of Americana on
tbf Lusitania, he said.
"The government knew that the Lnsl
tanlu was loaded to tho guards with am
munl'iou and explosives. Passengers wore
permitted, in spite of this, to travel on
the ves.'ol. The government Itself, in full
J.nowicdge that the ship carried muni
tions of war is morally responsible for
I the deaths of our citizens."
first joan" lnjr.K was nr:i:MN
When Senator Works declared the
ITuitnd States actually was panh ipntlng
In tho war by the solo of munitions,
vpenator I teed, democrat, interrupted to
siisk .
"Docs tho senator not know that the
iftist loan placed In this country after
Ithe war began was n loan of .Slftin)
to (le.nnans and that the loan was made
iVtUiout pintrst from him or imv oilier
ft'ltlzen? Does the senor not know that
Ocrmany proem ! aims In this country
imi long as It was possible for hor to
jf:ct thein7''
that mn all bo true," Senator AV'orks
Tcpllnl, "hut that does not alter the
UarttilntirMi "
"If it bo true," continued Senator Heed.
rnai iiie inarneis or huh country mo
free ami open to .ip.rm.-iny ns well iw
to all other countiiwi and that this gov
ernment does not distinguish between any
lieiiipereiit nations, I hen how can the
senator say that this Government lias
fnkctt an unneutral position?"
SAYS II. S. lROI.ONJS WA
ii i.i iiiipaHHiinn lo got nlins to
r.eiinany and I say it is morally wiling
Tor this government to penult rhlp
mellt of arniH to anv of the belUgcr
nils," .Seu.-itor Works insisted rp
tuition nun iiih principal onjcction was
liasccl on a conviction thai the L'nited
plates was aiding In prolonging thn
war and tho killing of inun, and that
i would not only put an embargo on
iniinitions, but also on shipment ot
food and clothing to the armies of Ku-
1 ope
Sctrjtor Lndgr, in upholding the po
ntlon of tho Fulled States aa lo the
rhipmcnt of munitions, ongagiel In ;
JfnKlhy i'olloiiiy with Soualum oc,or
man, Jlitihiock and others.
WHAT IS NF.lTllALITY?
"Our marketu aro open to all Hie lorl
1 tnix." mill Senalor l.oduc. "Wo huo
t ken no imiOiiii lo pi event any IicIIIk
eicnt or one else from buylm? In
our markots and no uro at pc.n o wllli
I, the world. A condition has been
i..,i hv this war und by tho war
siione. which prevents one or inmo bel
liffprents from buying In thla market,
v . imderiake lo rovnrso a condition
i rated by tho war wo at onco nu-
Into tho -'Viir and endeavor lo
...irllilnii oxlstlns bcidlo the
restoro a
war, and
imi is an r."' ot unneutrullty."
. i vi.imo'v In llmo of war such n"
is
now dlsti rblnK the peaco of the world,"
f-Yn tor OHlormnii icJuln-d, "-almost any
flt ot a n'tilral powr would be logaid.
CONSCRIPTION BILL is
FORMALLY
BY
PREMIER ASQUITH
Drafts Eligible Unmarried Englishmen to Mili
tary Service Premier Makes Stirring Speech
in Championing Measure Sir John Simon
and John Redmond Combat Asquith's Con
tentions Warning from Leader of Labor
Party.
London. .Ian R--The IJilllsh ro em
inent to-day detlnltely e inharked upon a
polity of ennipi.lsory military service.
hn 1'icniler Asilth submitted to the
House of Commons a PHI diafUns
eligible iiiinuirrlc I men to military dutv,
and chaninloncd the lucar.uie in a stlrt.ii
HPencn on the necessity of this step to
meet the srowlnc eMRencles of the
var.
Tho siene within the lloui t Com
mons was one of the irnMt notable in the
hlstoiy of that body, with the benches
packed with membeis. all the mluisteiial
seats ociiipled an J the tallerles ovei
HowiiiK. With the piiKipcct of a Veen duel e
tween the prime minister and his foimcr
colleague, Sir .lohn A. Simon, ovci the
momentous Issued which caused the la.o
home secretary'" iclcnatlim, tho IiIkkcki
nssemblaRe of conimoners since the out
break of the war faced Mr Arvpirih when
he Introdiircd his inllltarv service hill
'liiuall the only absentee weie tlins
who were debit t red fioin atlendini. by the
military netcsitles. These to a man
favor compulsion.
There was a feellnc of intense inteiest
and anxiety over the culmination ot the
controversy which has haken the cni.iitry
as no other event siiue the war began.
outside the Parliament hulldinK, creat
ciow lis Kathered, retlectini.; the deep pop
nlar Inteiest and shouts of wlcome i-'ieet-ed
tho premier as he drove up.
-Mr. Ascnilth bcu-an Immcdlatelv the
House was convened and spoke con
tinuously for an hour, assembling lea
sons showing the compelling necessltv
for resort to this step. The applause
was freiiient, while the opposition at
times expressed noisy disapproval.
I'HIvMjnit STATES HIS CASIO
Most of the speech was devoted to
a Heir exposition of the details of the
measure, which the premier declared
was no abandonment of the principle
of voluntary service. In which he tlrni
l believed, but morel v a tompniary
measure limited to the duration of
the war and confined to a comp, na
tively small class of unmarried men.
win, had not responded voluntarily to
the count!, v's needs.
1 would have been glad to do I
without this bill, said the premier
"My conlldent expectation had been
tluit no such measure would he neces
sary, but that hope has been disap
pointed, and 1 now consider this bill a
necesslt.v "
The premier particularly emphasized the
pledge he had given of lesort lo eon
s"riptlon If the voluntary enlistments
under the Derby plan did not give
deiiuate results As a matter of na
tional Interest, as well as expedlencv, he
gardeel the time as having arrived for
keeping thai plrdge.
"I mean to keep niv promise." be con
Hided, 'and let It not be said that we
rlnlllrd or delayed in cairylng out an
morable obligation "
SIR JOHN SIMON OPrOSKD
Sir John Simon was greeted lnrtlly
as he ro-n to combat lh( premier s con
tentions He oMuep-ovl ngiet at leaving
the lablnet and paid a tribute to Ml.
Asnulth, to whuiu he owenl mi -h smcess
he had a nieved, iint, be said, no per
sonal ronsldera.lons could ep-ter him from
opposing this mens ie, which preuented
the siliueine iiiiesiioii ot abandonliig the
principle of voluntary service, one of the
traditions of Riltnlp's freedom and sub-
stitutlng the Riuselan svstem of mili
tarism.
i ins out siioium he rcMstoil. be e-
claliiico while a wav(, of rheers greeied
hl.s slatcment He maintained tb.u
I'remier Aseiuiili 'end been moved cbie'L
in lxis ilisue In keep a pledge, wb're.is
this was a proposition involving a icve;-.
sal of the entire policy of the govern
ment, find Ihoso clilerfly desirous of hav
ing the pledgo ke.pt wore the men Mm
ed by romo im an act of partiality, hm
In my Judgment this gov eminent if H
deemed best for the Amerli-nii nation
and the best secuilly i,f peaen with all
thp nations, could place mi etnnarr.o
against th shlmeiit of mnnlilons to any
belligerent without exposing Iteolf to the
imputation of an unneutral act."
OTIIF.R NATIONS' LM HARCORS.
Senator Hitchcock asked Senator Lodge
whether It was unneutral for Norway,
Dennunk, Sweden anil Holland tei place
an embargo on munitions after the war
began Senalor Lodge, said he thouaht
nol, because that ai t ellel not change a
condition
"Phutng of tho eiiibaigo bv then na
tions," Senator Hitchcock replleel, "ile.
prived (lermany of a safe method eif
procuring mniillloiis and other conira
band fiom those count tics and no one
was heaiel to claim thai thoto countries
weiei guilty of nnneiitiallty. everyone
knows that (iermaiiy was deprived
of i
an enormous inlvantage when C.rcat
Rrltalu forced Ihohe iicutral countries of
I -1 1 1 ii),- lo put on that I'inbargo or lose
Hie food which they needed and which
Client Riltaln could kceti from them,"
"Does the senator e etnsleler," asked
Senator Works, "thai tho condition an
thlnkp we ought nol to change was
brought about by action of tho govern
ment to which v.o are now supplying
arms?"
UMHARCO WOULD Ilin.P liKRM ANT.
"Of course It wan not," icplled Senator
Lodge. "It was brought about bv tho
course of the war. In which one side got
conliol of tho sea. We iiliould bo doing
Just as liniieiitiiil a thing iih If It weie In
imr power to shut down the arms factories
of Lieu of which (iermaiiy got possession
at the ?i:fmtax of the war ami which she
Is now running in "iw m !nlrl.
"Suppose," Senator O'Uoi msrs
LAUNCHED
hart for years taunted th premier wllh
lock of pood faith
CHOIltiS OF HOOT.-!.
A 'hoiiiT of bonis greeted the r.i(rtk
t'. tarcan'te tetcrencc to prfssuip. ex
erted by "the Harmsworth press."
He maintained that tho results of t'oj
bill, If enacted, would bo a ticirllslble
addition to the flouting force. The real
dancer if the measure, he, at-serted. was
that It committed th prime minister to
the principle of compulsory service, and.
once this was co:nedcd, no one could
tell wheii) the new policy would end.
"Pon't condemn Minr own youiu; men."
he concluded drainallcally. "Don't pay
this coinplltncul to I'rus'lan militarism.
Don't siiriender one of the ie.il herllaK"s
of the Ihirillsh people for a mei'S of pot
tace." iionc.i: warns irti:.Mit:r:.
The lirst indication of tho attitude of
the Labor party was chcti by John
IIikIko. vice-chairman of lb,, part.v. who
said that the trade council assembling
In London to-monow would bo the
greatest confcreiiie labor had ver held,
with a thousand delegates specially com
missioned to pass upon conscription. He
was unable to say what Its decision
would be. bat warned the premier that
if Hie congiess vi.s against the bill it
could not hope to .succeed. Labor, he
added, had alwn opposed conscription,
and even should the measure be adopted
no one could tell the after affects when
the government r-inight to pnt It Into
execution.
Richmond i:ximu:ssi:s nKOHLTS.
The attitude of the large Irish national
ist membership In the llouso of Commons
wii- disclosed hv John Redmond, who ex
pressed regret that the Nationalist party
could not support the measuie. Irishmen,
be said, won- piepared to make everv t-ac-llliee
to bring the war lo an end, but the"'
did not believe complsory i-ervivcc neces
snrv to attain that ie"Ult. The proposed
bill was a gteat depailttro from the estab
lished principle of government, and he
cnnsldeie.i that the pienilcr had been far
too scimpiiIous In heeplnc his pledge bv
risl-lng such a departure from
llshcd government policy.
tho estnb-
Atiili-ew Rimar i-aw. secretaiv for colo-
. .,.., K..,, ...1,1. ,.,Pers as ho de-
, Ml, . ,
(lined the bill was absolutely nccessarv'
if the war w.'us to be won.
Alluding to the possibility of the defeat
of Hie measure. Mr. I Sonar Law asserted
that the Honi-o must inak, up Its mind, if
It decided thai theie was no national pee.l
for the bill, that its proceedings must be
conducted without the assistance of tli
light hnnotable gentleman who had Intro
duced the measure.
The debate in the House of Common
will he continued to-morrow, anil a tet
vote on the first leading probable will W
reached by ten oilnok to-moirow evening.
K ITCH t'.NI'.n ADDRLSSLS IIRDS.
The House of Loiils was the srene ot
another debate on conscription hardly less
animated than that in the Houso of torn
mons, .is Iirl Kitchener, secretary of
war. urged the Imperative necessity of
strengthening the army bv the mean
now proposed
Lord Kitchener ileilar.il himself a (I'm
suppoitci of the voluic.ar.v system and
regal tied the present nieasuie as only a
temporary deviation fiom the established
policy. In conclusion h" said:
"I speak only as a soldier with a single
eye to -he sili er ssful conduct of the war.
I fe,.l sum everyone vlll agree when I
iwi v l hat the fniicM and fall est trial line
hi en given t':e system which I found in
isienee and or which I leu it uiv muy
to tn.ikc Hie best use. VW ai.. now asking
''arll.uuent lo saiii'tlon a chnng". as It
iuk lii en proved that In the spc'lnl cl'
i unistanrcs. of this uttuilv iinpreceeleiited
stiilggle the exletlng system, wlllunit
irii.llhcntlon. Is not ri'nl to maintaining
lie army whl'h Is needed to scni( vlr
lory." .lectcd, lirlllgerent that Is tho chief
bene-In inry nf our present policy with t'n
fi I to exportation of munition-, weie
to ellsicRrird oi,r rlghls as a neutral na
tion, dne the senator think wo would
be .lustllliil In plat lug an embaiso on
munition!) as a letallatnry measure''"
"Wo should have a right to Impose, a
tetallatorv luubargo, but 1 think It would
be an uuneutinl ait," Hie Massachusetts
lienalor replied,
t this point Senator Stone, clialimr.il
of tho foreign relations committee, point
ed out Hint the debate, was out of order,
and ended It bv moving an eiecutlvn
.session
"I have nor
ho explained
we'll tei let it
of fi'fllng out
the 8uate' "
objected up to this time,"
"I thought It was very
run a Mule while bv wa.v
ami getting an Indu:. i
LATHROP II. BALDWIN
MURPII Y'S SUCCESSOR
i
Rutland. Jan a. Lalhiop 11, Baldwin,
who has been assistant treasurer of the
Mai hie Savings baul- l.i this Ity for so -eral
yonre, and who was previoi.ab
treasurer or the Piocleir i rust company,
was lo-ihu I'lecled treasurer of the
Marble institution to (ill a vacancy iMiised
by tin- illsnppe'aianeo from this city No.
vember IV, of Treasurer John J. Murphy,
who is now undergoing treatment for a
nervous disorder at a Now Orleans boa
Pltal. Buchanan Surrenders.
New Yoik, Jan, Congressman Frank
lliichauii.i of Illinois, Indicted on e'liaijgos
of cuuspli lm; to foment strikes in muni
tion plants, to-day Hit rendered himself
mi
und wa crralgui'd. Ho pleaded not gull-
UC3 ZT1 released In V:" bull.
PASSEN GER
STEIMEH SINKS
IN OHIO RIVER
Thirty-Six People on Hoard be
sides a Crew of Korty-Kivc
Some Doubt as to Whether AH
Arc Saved or Not.
BOAT STRUCK S PIER
Sank in Short Time Do.cn Pas
sengers Were Seen Standing
on the Craft When She Dis
appeared in Darkness Float
ing Down the River.
IMrkersbiirtT, W. Vn.. J.tn iVTho I
steamer, Kanawha, o'vned hv the Kana
wha Packet company struck a pier iC
dam Xo. 10 about nine mile' south of hoifl
In the Ohio river to-night and sank In "0
feet of water. Tip steamer curled 3.
pa.sfenpers and a crew of 4" hut Capta! t
' llriifle Iten v who landed at iteldahl's sta
tion near which i-otnt tho accldciil oe
euried, e:spte"ned tho. opinion that all In. I
been saved. Since snmo of the icsdied
were taken to the Ohio side and other
landed on this side of the rl or It a.lm
posslb'e to-nlsht to check lip ll.e, lit ot
passengers and crew.
Accordlnif to a telephone message re
ceived heie, R. N. Beaver, nun of the
t celled passrngery, snld that a life boat
containing about l' peisons got away
from Hie packet before she Mink and
was rowed to the Ohio side of the river,
lie Is Mooted as saying that when the
Kanawha settled a doen persons were
standing on the loof in thtee feet of
water. Whether any of thje succeeded
In leaching the shore has not been ascer
tainod heie.
The place wheie the packet sank Is near
a spaisely sr tiled territory and been use
of the had condition of the nad and
bad wire communication It was itnpns
slole to get complete details to-lllgllt.
Captain Retry said that after the col
lision, the boat continued down the ilvr
for some distance before it sank. It then
turned over on Itn side he said, and floai-
ed as far a Lamp's Ijindlnc, which Is
live miles below the dam. He said theie
wa much excitement among 'lie passen
ger. The crow, after Ilia cnllleiim, IhiiuHi-'
ed the lifeboats and tho rescm of pas- I
sengera continued nil the way from the
dam tei the point where the boat llnallv
turned over.
The Kanawha left Pittsburg for Charles
ton, W. Vn., Tuesday afternoon with 10
passengers, eight head ot horses and
mules and about (.' tons of miscellaneous
freight. A number of passengers landed
here
At a late hour to-night tepoits rei rived
from various points along the river In
dicated that onlv II survivors had been
landed. Owners of the .steamer expresseel
the belief, however, that others had been
landed at temote places along tho shore
or been carried down stream on pieces
of wrreknpr
WEBB WANTS NEW TRIAL.
I'len Entered In .supreme Court
.Inines Wiitson WHili,
Montpeller, Jan .".--A plea for a new
trial in the vase of Stale vs. lames
Watson Webb, pursuing eleer Illegally,
was made to-ehij In rupremo court, War
ren R. Austin of St. Albans appearing
for the l ci-pnnilont and Slate's Attorney
Hopkins of Chittenden county for the
State.
Windham county cases aro to be taken
up tei-inoirow, they having been leaelied
on the calendar. Court took a recess
at noon to await tho appearance of al
tnrnevs fioip t' at ro Ult.v
SUES FOR .SLlOOO.
A, A. Parnielee i'i'Iih to lire-over iriilll
ngr for Death of fori.
St. Albans, Jan. R - A suit to recover
elamagcs for th death of Ills son, Cl'ivtou
Parmelee, has been broimht hv A. A.
I'arnieleo against the. Vermont Power .t;
Manufacturing conipaiiv. Papers hove
been nerved and attachments made on
real estate belonging to the company in
Fnlrfix.
A healing was helel before the juihllc
.service commission Monday on tho orders
recently made public by the commission
In connection with the application of the
company to sell its properties and ashota
to Ihe Public Llcclric Lighting company
of Musmchusi'tls. M. II, Alexander, at
torney for A. A- Pariuclee, was present
and Mated that ho would enter any jno.
test against tho transfer if in nuy
wnv Inlerfeicfs with his i Heat's rights
In receive elainageii against the Vermont.
Power R- Manufacturing company for the
death ot Mr Parmelce'n sou.
MAY END LITKiATION.
Conference Though! tei I nil leu 1 1- Settle
inent of Telephone use's,
Meinlpelier, Jan. - Allhuugh po offi
cial reporl Is ronnconiliig, n H unelei-
htooel that the piesenee in ,e eily to
day of U. c. Racnn euul W It. Warner
of the; public service commission, (Inv.
C, W. Hates, Attorney. Uemcial n. c,.
liirber, Oi'iieral CoiinuM M. R. Jones and
(e-Preslilenl H. Iv. Hall of the .Vow
Ihigland Telephone ciimpanv ineaim that
a I'onfiwi nco has been held looking to
ward a settlement ot tho telephone cases.
Tho report in to tho effect that thn Tele,
phono company ban mad,, a piopo.sltlnn.
Coiniiilsslonerii Uacon and Warner were
on tho commission when the lelephonn
liiipilry waa commenced uueh'r thu ailinlu
iNtratlou of flov. A. M. lietche,..
Ill siipteino court to-dav the- case of
the Aeldlseiii anil I'lliuon Telrphnnn and
Tclegraidl iiinuiany, mi aiipe.il f,nni the
putillu rervico couiinl.sMiin vva.i held open
on request.
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
HIIDDLEI5URY.
The bos factory which was destroyed
bv tiro at Hast Mlddlebury Is to bo re
built. Arthur M. Ilrovvn of this vil
lage has tho contract for tho creel Ion
of tho same. The ground has been
cleared ot thn ruins and worlc will he
pushed as rapidly as possible. CIar1on
H Westnll, Si., wan 70 yearn of age
b'ridav, having been born In London,
L'lglaiul. December 31, lSlHi, Mr West
all came to America when a young
man and has: lived In Mlddlebury for
about HO years, dtirlnu which time lu
has been n well-known Jeweler nnd
watchmaker. He Is in excellent health
and still able to attend lo his business.
Mls.1 Lillian Cole ami James Dtitclle
wcic ipibtly inariled Wedne.Jdtiy Dec.
.9 at the liouio of I'athef loonaid.
Kincst Dittelle, a brother of the groom,
wan the best man and Mrs. Hrnest I in
telle was bridesmaid After the cere
mony recaption was Klven at tho
homo of thn bride on Court Htrct. The.
supper was served by At Ids Dorothy
Cole, a sister of the b'-lde Tho bolls-!
was prettily trimmed, tho color scheme
being green and vhltv. After the
wedding; supper the brldo and groom
piesented the gin sts with wlilto car
nations. The gift to the bride by tho
groom was a losnr;-. Mr. and Mrs.
Ilutelle left on the sleeper for Itoston
and New Yorl:. They will icslde In
I'roctor, where he Is an expreac agent.
Mrs. Dntelle was formerly a telephone
operator at the M Iddlcoury e::cliyuge.
Th Now Year opened bilghtly In Mid-j
dlohiiiy V'ollo.. In.-j theli exer-i.-es tho I
now chimes oi tno .ieac ( nape! or .miu
ellebury college rutin out the time fteip
a eiuartcr hetore until half past twelve
o'clock. Their ton" was plen'-atit lo the
ears of Middleburv pcopic Karlier in the
evening, fiom nlno o'clock until ten
o'clock, theie was a prayer and confer
ence meeting In the parlors of the Memo
rial lianllst Church, and from ten lo 11:10
the Yelling IVeiple's society helel a seidal
hour anil I efi eslimelits were serveel by
thi'in. This was followed by another t-erv-Ice,
which continued until midnight. The.
customary Muvices weie held at St.
Mar.v's Catholic Church and St Stephen'
KpNcopal C'lmrch. with inase" at live
o'clock and nlno o'clock at the Catholic
Church.-A large number of the joiing
leople- of .Mlddlebury went Friday night
to attend New Year's dances In Cornwall,
Rrldport and Wcybi Idge. Miss Marlon
Crosby went to liialidon Satuiday to
spenel New Year's with ft lends. Mr. and
Mrs. C. .1. Lowell have gone to I'roctor
to visit a few ilays.--Slepheii Doodv, a
teacher In the high school at Littleton,
N. II . is In Ioimi to visit hi pareilis, M-.
and Mrs. John Doody. Jeihn llalnon. who
has been visiting at the home of bis
mother, Mrs. .lohn llalnon, has retiitnelj
to Worcester. .Mas"" - Miss Ne'he lllggini,
Mio h.i- been isltlng at the bon e or
Mrs. William Foote, for a week, has ie-
turneel In Rutland. Mr. and Mrs. Charles
M. Hyde, who has been visiting his moth
er. Mrs. Cniollne llele, for a few days,
havo roturneel to no-don. Mr. and Mri.
McXulla, who have been visiting relatives
and friends in town for a week, have io
turned to Ilrlstnl. Harrv Mack of Hnrt
foid. Conn., is In town to vllt relatives
and friend? Mr. anil Mrs. L. K. Hon are
visiting In Rutland and I "air Haven. -Mtsu
Lillian Costelln of Little l-'nll", N. Y., who
lias hern visiting ber mother, Mrs. Pat
rick Coslello, has returneil to her home.
Mrs. Jennie Rurke. who wa called hcie
bv the death of her uncle, Robert Manney,
has retuined to New n-cdfonl. Mas. -
e'harlcM Peek of Winnipeg, Can., a former
resident. Is vMting at the home of Mr.
anil Mr. II. A Peck. Henry S. Chapman
and sister, Ada Chapman, havo returned
from TVrilshnig. where thev have been
to vl!t their uncle. Charles A. Chapman.
Frank A. Farnworth. Jr.. of New Vnik
oit Is In town to visit his parents, Mr.
and Mrs Frank A Faiuswnith. -Mli
Ruth flrosvennr. who has been visiting hr
mother. Mrs. Libia Oiosvenor, for two
weeks, ba returned to her school duties
In Plttsfoid The Mnj flower Relief nsso-
latlon will meet with Mis. J. A. Fletcher
at her home on South street Mmidav aft-
ernoo. .lanunry m, nI j:u ociock.-.vn.
anil Mrs. H. M Severance, who luive been
In town for a week to visit relatives and M,.Farland Hie .eports of be
friends, have retuined to Pioclor.-Mss I f,wiplv wf,1P ro;u, RhmV0ll nuu tho
Ruth llrookins. who has been veiling at I y, was hl :l nourishing condition with
the home of ber parent, Mr and Mr- C(,a ,,a,!ul, p ,,, , tl.,,,suiy. The fol
Ferd ItrooM.is. for a week. bar. retnrne 1 , ,(i,vllK (l,U(,n( olo,.tclI. FioHilcni.
to her school ,i..ies a. U aterbn. y. Conn. I j,,, !(n. Whltti.nore. v Ice-p. c-ldent,
-l-rank l.andrv. who 1,n- ben,, vitlting U,s ,Uv(, HoCrt,tnty ;ln(J trc.la.
nt the home of Mr and Mrs. lease, for a urrr A1n ,lllvmond IcFarkind. Mrs.
wee-U. has returned to his home In Roston. ,iV,.,v Mr,,n,.,. v,,,s He-te.l io have
I'he Addison count v Fanuern' assoela- ,,,. r ,,. :!(,.pl. f,,,,,, .Mr. mlU jin,
lion's annua! nc t'ng will be held 'n ,'ort(,. f Smuli Jl.Un blmt .ire rironi
Miildlebnr.v at Ihe town hall Pntuiiktv. I y, eluightcr.- The MaMlower Relief as
The program is as follows: Morning i-rs-1 M ,n tlon ,vlu mcet wti, .Mr.i. J, A. Fleteb.
slop beginning at 1o:8.i; leimrts of tho , rr j,,,,,,.. nfteinnon at o'clock.-iim
secretary, trcasuter, county agent; ells- yifmy r.i,;), n, ., attended mcotlii
cu.iloii by mcmher: icnuirkr. by Thomas , thn ,,, ol- Ml.., j,,),,, xt. Tliomn
P.rndlcy. State leader e.f e-eiimly agent v,nrtii!.iy evening -Professor Tiiot'..us
work; election nf offlcerr; afternoon ees- 5pyPO j,as R1lr tn Rr.indon on .t busl
clou, talk by II. F. Rrlgbam. State com- llcs ('rp lM connection with tho RatteU
nilfsiouer of agriculture; talk hv J. L. c!,t.,(p- jt n understood that a half mil
Hills, elean of Ihe College eif Agriculture. ))on fe(,t ,lf l((,s )l0 .ltt amI fiold irvrm
rnlversitv of Vermont. The Addison llstato Ibis wwin,-Raymond Rene-
Houso will furnish dinner. Miss Mj,,ti w)lo 13S m.M Soin time in the
Kayo Itutterfield baa letuiiiei! 1 1 j Wert, Is in town to visit his parents, Mr.
Sprlnetleld after a two weeks' visit u .,,( jj,. n. j;, liencelict -I'V.in1: C
her imrents. Mr. and Mrs. M. T Rutter- J . roltllm who lm,- hem visiting hlb
Held. --The Misses Marv and Lllabelh jaa ,sii..ui Archibald, for the iia.t
Me'Aelnins of Roston are
i, iiu'n lei VIK I
nt tho homo of Mr and Ml" Simon
Miireh. Ward Wlialen. who has been
vhltlng nt the homo of bis aunt. Mrs
Cla.vton Hanks, for a week, has retiitn.
ed to Holy Cross College, Worcester.
Xtnf1s.Mr. and Mrs Willard Rond haveit tho atiniial meeting (if the Addlum
returneil to New York after a week's j Court, Catholic Ouler of Km otter.-, N.).
stay nt the- home of his mother, Mrs l, J12. the folloivitig were elected: Spliit
Marv Rond. -Mr. and Mis. Cyill Rouilcr ! uul ndv Isor. Father Leonard; C. I!., h'tan
who havo been visiting In town for a
week, have returned to Rutland. - Mrs.
IMwnrd Laltiell and son. who have been
visiting lehitlvea and ft lends In (own
for a week, haw letunieei to North For-rlnhutg.-
Liiclur lluttolph, who was
called here bv the sudden death n." bin
father, John l.ilwy iiiiuiupu. inn ior inii
homo in Twin Fans, ma
elav. The .Mlsseii Sarah U'iu h and Mary
Duekett have returneil from li visit to
their grandparents. Mr. and Mm. II. C.
Leach of Kast I'ftliileld. Dr. Karl L.
Ciishinaii has ictiirned to Riooklyu,
N. V., after a ten days' visit to Ins
patenlH, Mr. and Mrs. H Ctishman.
Miss Stella Turner has letmned lo Per
risbiirg after a ten ilas' visit Willi her
.duel'.- Mr. and Mo. F.ugiiio Smith,
who haw beet' visiting nt I In- homo of
his parents. Mr. nnd Mm. A. II. Smith,
have ictiirned to ltullund.-JIIf ; Annie
Mulligan, Mm has been visiting her sis
ters in town for a few weeks, has re
turned to Amsterdam, N. V. Mm. Clcorge
CaiblrlRli. who ban been visiting her
mother, Mra. R. L. Flemmlng, for two
weeks, linn returned to Allstein, Mass.
Miss Clara Smith baa gone on i. month's
vaeallon, which she will spend in Roa
ton and Rellows Kails. Mr. and Mrs.
Stewart Anelrevvs, who have been visit
ing nt tho home of her mother, Mrs.
Mary Hond, for a wei'k, have returned
to their homo in Revcily, Mass. Mon
day, market day, eggn brought SJ cents
and butter CI to St cents. John Lovvi'll
and John Lower havo gone to St. Albans,
where they have a conliait for tho
painting of a itore.
Word has been received that Mrs. V.en i
Morse, a rerhlent eif this viilage, b.'t
now a school teacher III Wllliat.nHtn.vri,
hail rndergone a Ktieccsrftil opera
tion at the Memorial horpltnl n'
Rrattlehoro. Miss Kllzabcth Costellej, who
has been visiting Miss Rernlce Klelder
for a vve"k. his returned to Little falls.
X, Y Lake Dunniorii Lodge, No. II, 1 o
O. P., v.-orkeel the second deTiee a:
their regular initothiS last cvenlng.-Mr.s.
William Foul Is III. Miss I'ranrer. Piper
has gone to Rurllnglon for a few dnv'
visit. ..Mr.. Mary Nns,i and son, who
have been visiting at the homo ot Mr.
and Mis. Joseph P.rovvn. for a few ela.vs,
have returned to their home In Rurllng
ton. Stephen Doody, who Iih3 been visit
ing at the home of hip parents. VI.. and
Mis. John Por.ily, for a week, has le
tnined in his re heiol duties In Littleton.
K. 11. The Missionary socletv of
the Conisremillonal Church held a we-ll
attended mflln.': at the home nf Mrs,
John A
Mr. and
I'lelcber Tuciday afte-iinon
Mri V K. Rose, anil daughter,
ivlio have b'ien vLMtlng In Rutli.:nl ami
and f'V.r Haven for a. week, have returneil
hoiiie. Mlaa Kulh flrosvenoi, who has
been visiting her mother, Mrs. Kdna
(Jrosvenor, for a. few days, hap returned
to I'lttsford. Tho Woman's Home and
Foreign Missionary so ietv of the Metho
dist Church helel a well attended meeting
at the home of Mr. .1. Allen Morgan
Tuesday afternoon. .Wss Ruth Rrooklns
has returned to her duties In Waterbury,
Conn., after a two weeks' vlsk with her
parent, Mr. and Mrs. F. O. Rrooklns
Henry P. Chapman mill Miss Ada chap
man have letuined from Fenislniig,
where thev have tieen In visit their uncle,
Charles Chapman, for iwo weeks. Miss.
Leona Wiight has returned tn Rrattle
horo after a week's visit In town. Mrs.
Charles Tilggs. who has been visiting
at the home eif Mr. and Mr. Homer
Rain for a week, has letiirned to Port
Chester, X. Y Mr. and Mrs. Hot licit
Piatt havo returned to Rurlltmton after
a visit In this vicinity for a fw weeks
Miss flat a Rru.vn has returned fiom
Vcrgennes, where she has been tei visit
her sister, Mrs. Frank n.-irrows. -Prof.
and Mrs. Charles II. right and dangh-
er have returned fiom Akron, Ohio,
where ihey have rnent two weeks. M. L.
i asey has retnrnrd rrom I'lttsford air
Rntlmd, where he has spent 10 elavs.
.Wss 1-ottle Walker has returned to Last
Oranvllle after a 10 days' visit to hor
brother, Henry Walker Miss Kleanor S.
Ross, dean of the women at tho college,
lias returneil from Rutland, where she
passed the holidays with the family of
her grandfather, Judge T. C. Robbing
Messrs. T.co Towers and Frederick L.
.loner, have returned f.om Castlctou.
where they have been for two week
P. J. Donnelly of Cornwall, a former resl-
dent
Mlddlebury, l making a shoit
town Miss fiulh Hall has ic-
visit
mined fiom
j slp uls mP1)
North Menninstnn. where
to visit her mother Mis
Martha I la II. Willi im M. Wright ot
ISranilon Is In town. Mirs Ruth A.
liencelli L nf Itoston Is In town for a sia
of some length M. .1 Cronin has gone
to Shorcliani on business. Two ipiirt
weddlnss look place at the Methodist
church parsonage Tuesday, pcrtoimcd
by Dr D. 11 Cnikrnn. when Fianl. F.
Asli and Minnie M. Sorell. both of Orwell,
anil Finest M. Sargent and liura -M
Kasttnau, both of New Haven, wciv
is nil od.
Mrs Iiuis Stober, who has iieen spend
ing some time here with her parents, Mr
mill .Mrs. Charles Mullock, has letutnetl i"
ltoHton. At the annual meeting of tho La-
(Ml,s. Mlsslmmry society of the Memorial
(.,..,,. ,,,,, ... ... ,,f Mr.
few davs. has returned to Manchester -Mi-it
Nclllo Toltliigham, who has been
visiting hi low n fur two week.-, ha:; re.
turned to Shoiehaiu. Rush Wllmarth, a
foimer resident, hut now ot Ailellson, la In
town for a few days slay on business. -
Shiu kott, Jr . V. c I;., .los-eph Ilrovvn; P.
V, !! Lcwbi llenlluid; lecordliu: seen
tarv, KM Fortler, tinaiiclal seeretarv,
Fred LaP.in; ticasurer, -I. J. Roudieau:
trustees. Dr. P L. Dorev, Kllck Aunch
man, and Lovl WNsell.- The ditto for the
Installation ha", not yet been set. Mr.
niiel .Mr, vvarurn vvcu nave cioscit their
lioiiso In Hie e'act p.nt of
p.nt or the town and
me making their home at thn Mlildlobury
Inn for tho wiuter. -Tlie nii'etlng of the
Km tnlghtly club, which was to havo been
helel January 1'.', ban been postponed until
Tuestlny, the IRth, at Ihe homo of Mrs.
A. W. Dickens.- Mlrs Marjoiie Phelps has
ictunied from New York city, where she
has been vii-lllnp: for two vveokw Mrs.
Mcsch Wlmnictt and son, Vim, are line .
frnni littsfotd, wheie they havo been vis
Itlns ichiUves. !core Leo of North I!u-
(('nndiniril ou page tno)
ONLY ENGAGEMENT
OfliMTlCEIS
IH BESSARABIA
Russia Is Evidently Determined
to Cause a Break Sonicwhero
in the Lines of the Central
Powers.
OTHER FRONTS HIE QUIET
Great Labor Conference in Lon
don To-day on Conscription
Haralonr,' Case Creates sensa
tion in England Washington
against Grey's Sujjgcsiion.
London, Jan. 5. While the butie on
I the borders of .".essaiabla anpaic-')' lr
! still tar from rhctilen ai l eiti' "-j Is
the Rutsians claiming the lli j m; m ot
iiddltlonal ene.'tr.y pevltlons, ani reopj.
grad believe!: that It thin p,,,e:H on
lltuies a short tlmo longer, a hrea i.utat
come somewhere In thu lin'.- it tin c n
tral powers.
The whole ene.-f.y of th" It i . an army
!s being directed to making a r-m t,-t-vecu
the Crerinan armies. In the enter,
anil the southern rtimtrlan for. es, aid
'.he desperate Austrian ai'a:ks n -?
legion of Kolkl are eslgned to j e ear
thlF. Tho fighting must contln ,. i jr
considerable tlmo yet. nut upon -he r
ult will depend !n larg,.. nK-isun
Mrategy of both sides when r nine
comes.
The other fronts continue , raatn' in
a suite of comparative quiet
For Kngland thei r.ttltudc tl a or
men will take regarding nii .it
a great conference lo be Melel in Lou
elon to-morrow is a mattei of .,-ix.
Rouen Williams, leader or im per
taut Transport Worker.?' Vinop dui ar 1
to-night:
"It is practically assured 'l.,i t'm con
fetrni e will aflirni the ieie. Hon of on
rcrlptloii In any form."
The -.tory eif tliP Raralong jre Ins
! i leateil a wide sensation. A .outlier-
able- pan of the Lngllsh pros question
the veracity of the wltne!-cs Tin
Olobe exin esses doubt whether theie Is
liny sin h person as Larlmorp Holland,
an 1 suggests: "The next time on
Rcthmann-I lollwcg's subordinates invent
n witness they liould provide one who
Is more convincing."
The livening Standard says: "Assum
ing the truth of tho story, the officers
of tho Raralong only exacted richly de-r-crved
retribution for lawlessness and
Inliuiiranitx . There Is no neeil for
tho smallest apology either to enemy or
ticiitr.il opinion."
At the same time tho nrdluarv citizen
Is dlsint lined to accept without corrobora
tion what Is regarded as tontiaellctory
evidence.
There is general expectation iha' Oer
manv will expiess its eiNsatl? fai Ion t'
Sir Ldward Orey's reply bv Immediatr'y
Instituting reprisals, which the Lnsh.-.h
fear will take a violent form.
Washington, Jan. .".It was iu' inta
lively stated to-night that too 1 nlt'd
States government would njt .igree o
the suggestion b.v Sir 'lalvvaril Orev to
lermany that a tribunal of Am- I an
naval officers investigate i'igeient
cliaiges and counter charge of p hoinai e
i ondtict by naval officers.
Ambassador Pago at Lund m, 'n ng'i
whom Sr. Kilwaril's commune at'on v ?
foi'Warileil tei Rerlln, probably vv M await
an expression from the German gover -ment
concerning its altitude Stfore hn
brings ihe subject to ihe aUcutinu of
the Mnte department here
officials conversant with the si'-iat'o'i,
however, say Informallv that toe ' r
Stales undoubt''d.v vvil1 coitln ie t aO
hcrr to its policy of pnii-buerve n'l " n
conti'oversles of this kind ''vee 're
eteiit nations
RUTLAND COUNTY FAIR
SOCIETY ELECTS Ol-'FIC'KRS
Receipts ?t2,nc.,r.:i." nod Attrndnure .". I,
nin nt int.". Fnlr.
Rut'and, Jan S. -Tim r. in'iaj mtl
of the Rut'aiiil County V ri d'uril n
cicty xvns held at tho Rerwicl. here. ' i
ibiy with Frank M WH-.i ":, preside: '
presldlnr. Tlin biiolne-ss 'ransae'ed i
eluded residing of rupoits, elc tl jn if off1
ccrs and plans for tho 1910 fair
Tni trustees, Mr. Wilsop It, i 'e c
Dunn and -Miles S. Sw. of t Is v
and J, V'.. Ruxtnn of Mlddb town Snr'i s-rcpii-tetl
tbiit the profit of th- a ' ' '
wns JI."'V) ami ther "as .t . ' p n- i
liabilities to the amount of t.'M" ' Tl "
profit was divide I an follovv Pi i
nine, tl.tmn' old aeiounl. Jt IT
J1,.t: puiuanent Improvement PI"1 Ti
net liabilities a year ago weie J.m;. .
and aio to-day given an KH'1 '
The. rceluction nf debt would Imv teeen
tirciler by J.W had It not hi en f da i
ago to Ihe roof i.f the Art- t-1 ' ' if' '
luiildlng by a the
Treasilicr Will I.. Davis leiioiieel ib
the tralo receipts of the 1013 inc t .imo ni
eel to JI2.M.!."i, the Inrges' ainoun' i
one day being K.'AM.", on Tbuisihr Tne
paid admissions on this ila' tola en
J.".. 10::. Tho admission for th lh das i
numbered a 1,1)9.
Tho following ofti'd's wei er ted
I'l l alde.it, 1". M. Wilson of Rnth li't I f
pienldeiits, W. C. Carter of Piilsfoi l lid
Robert Mead of West Rutland seen
tary, W. K. I'arnsvvoitl. of Ru".unl
treasurer, Will L. Davis of Ruiland
truMecs, Mr. Wilson. W 1 1 S'ui lh
,1. C. Dunn and M. S. Sawyer ,i i m
Rutland, and H. '. Ruxlmi o." M'dd
low u Sptliigs.
l',x-.inbassaib'r to Mexnn I
V
i,oii pieilhis failure of Can an. i i
mcnl "from within" beiauM- Can uu.a
unable to cope with the vltuultnu.
