ble Hill Press.
IHE
THIETT-PIPTH TTE-AES.
Clrculaticzi. 1.2 CO
Vol. js.
Marble Hill, Mi550uii, Thursday, January 6, 1916.
fo. 36,
Mar
11-; . Va', s'j r
You've bit the
right tobacco
when you fire-up some
Prince Albert in your
old jimmy pipo cr in a
makin's cigarette. And
you know it J Can't get
in wrong: with P. A. for it
is made right; mado to
spread-smoke-sunshine
among men who have
suffered with scorched
tongues and parched
throats I The patented
process fixes that ar.d
cuts out bite and parch.
All day long you'll sing
how glad you are you're
pals with
7i y . ytj'sr--:
K
Huns
Wl
ill" j
' ' it ' 1 ' VSf5' ' f V- y
I mm'P
xr4 M fit. U afecffSai
Alee
TO
Me national joy smoke
You take this testimony straight from the shoulder, men.
You can smoke a barrel of P. A. without a kick! It hands
out all the tobacco happiness any man ever dmimtxl
about it's so smooth and friendly. It's a mighty cheer
ful thing to be on talking-terms with your pipe and your
tongue t the same time but that's what's coming
to you sure as yoa pin your faith to Prince Albert!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO, Wiiutoolem, N, C X,
rm'M I,m4 frtmtm Atln't
mf 4 WMff RMUflMf lw
44 m.4 HtwuwM
Uadtrw-ond, drill fort-man, Morion
Fortta r a:id others were itt vork in
the it; itt when it "mil I cliiiniier
broke I' Mween tl t-m mid the,
shaft The lnft runs at a f uisid.-r-1
able incline from the shaft to the
end and the large volume of mud
However, it iscertain that somecon-! the topi are too high, lower them quit" fr-t !!' the last sevtra' yews,
certtd ffort will be imessury to ! iiMKierutely ,iMl gradually m m not Dvas vna ntnrried twitt- atid
land (!n wh.Hil and we oiml.t not to j to ili'tnih t!ie hul:;)ice U tween ton was the fatlur of 17 children, seven
hesiiHie in making the.lTort. This ! and r.Kds. f the r,M.t f.ystem has of whom survive him: John F. of
if a jolt for the Commercial cluh to ; Kt en dev.-loix-il to inke care of a Oklahoma, Mrs. Ed Green, Dublin:
,""1,'r- larJ.- to;, and much of ihis is nid- Roht. I,., Deleon; Stla W., Jarrell,
jdenly removed, ptois will send Texas; Mrs. Win. Fain-loth, Patton,
Killed in .Mine np M) IIIU,., lllore ,M;iT(.ri-,i im m0 ; l)Wndes D, Strawu; Archie M.,
,r the ,o serious a-cidents ; remaining t-. can use that there Dublin; Grover C. and Lau-a C. Dal
In tl.e .-t,,ry 0f Caih, niv mine; win . n hi.i arowtl, of water sprouts. las. and Claylwn B. of Greenville,
occurrel Thursday niJlii. Floyd ; mu., ,,, u r.. n..i :.. -r...,. u :......:... 4 i... r .....
" " " - . - - - j - - j . . .
su-iid of loo much of ihe top, but ii grandchildren and a numtterof fireat-
is often c-ssnry t i lti :hiiie the grandchildreu.
w.ii k ovt-r two years a'id -o:neiirni's The funeral was conducted the
over I'irce years. :iiit!i at Green's creek cemetery, five
Trees planted Uxi iliicl.ly may miles from Duhli'i.
nt-d ttiiniiinC, bm :f the ((ranches Mr Pair hail many relatives and
of nejj.'ilx.riiit' invs oveilar' the f-ieliU in Mr Hinder rnnntv wl will
T 111 u",u 1,11 ,n 1,1 vrry ; ones may rut back to some be sorrv t i - tni of !;is
nunutfs i .ilt i.r 1. a 1 , ,
L , .,.- ,1 . ir:
,,,!U"r oian..-ve: 10 nkin las . ..... ,r....k ,.,:,, tir:lI,.t.
way thrua ihe heavy mud and ;
water for a considerable distance
and
i.iir.,. tiiennuf! miKi nn . m Mj,.r ,.illlkpr (.ompletelv, H,Mj
water put tint Underwood's hdit .1 ti,,f,., , 1.
''mn" 1 i.ir iiiuni l'.M Itltl UtlA
and no .uml was he.nd from him. ,ur,. f m,uimu. j,i a
m mctHX to a.car broke loose t t!lollSiJI,, mns of wler. or ,itJlst.
; ami e-.ipf.. I m.w !e carr.".l from tree 10 ir -e
A hu.ce amount of mod filled the j thrmiui the orchara
drift, but some hojH-i that Under- ,
wKi was still alive Work was! , . , . n ...
. .. . . . . . Lounty Court Procctdtngs
Marted to reach the body, but it was , , ,,,, (.ulNU;inl t0 fld ,mm,mw
nearly tKtm.Sunduy before the men ! Mnn.Uv. H.-.-cmtH.r 17- nn-fcent. John
could reach hint. He was floating 1 Owen, j.tt.i.lin judure: W. P. Lira- n's
face downward on tite stirtace of i t"1,JPh "nJ F-
HnlV'h; r.
( t.-irar V,". Ynuni, flerk.
1 ho .'rnunal :;SHe.H!!jn ( Charles
uutiK or main nraticti a:n
never leae a sti:b to carry decay
a consi,tera!le distant j!)t0 ,;, tr, ,. Pijj , ,1 ..... surfa, w
as n-mny rescu.il t.y otner wil;, w,ile .,.. ..... rlw
Cut
the nu I. Frederick town Democrat-Newi
mh.
MUul Shall Ht- Ttath'f
The true teacher a.-ks himself the
quesiicti: Am teaching those
iiiiitks thai are most i.eedt d and will
help to make tny pupils efficient
citizens"
M"diCiiiou along tin line fre
quently cau es the ti.-itel.er t . live
in doubt. He doubts whether his
subject matter is prop-i!y selected.
He doubts w,, ether hl metV d and
tactics are up to now. Bp. t her,
don't let don; t scare you. Doubt is
essential. Columbus doubted what
contemporaries believed that
;. L.unbt'rt, associate the earth is square and flat. Hence,
'resnel!, sheriff, and ' a tnw world wn diwvivorMt Whi.
ney douhted whether ji-kins the
. ..,) ,.r :.l t:..M
! Thiele U r..du.-el from m to lt:,, by !rr" "ul 1 "u"" "UI
j onier i the eoiin anJ t h- evIU-ptoronier- t'1" best wa . Hence, th 1110J-
t.,! t.. mUum hi Ur.k cvr!insr!y. ern cotton gin How does the
$pi !r .-f-.ief of I. inner harvest bit rrin todav? Hnw
do we travel tniav? In all the
moileru inventions winch have so
d
4 Setter Apple Crop.
The Brilile croo i m lUiml more
, ! f'ora t.;.'1 i a!iuw-
ini j 1 ian aujf wiin loriu i lop in . filK - v
Mw-Hturi if properly grown and mar- j rcrse.m! :t-sment ..f Fr.-mk Hiiiu.e
keted. according to J. C. Whitten. of i er-iere.i n ,ir. .1 f-m l;io - s7n.
the Miswuri CoUetf" of agriculture ' W-by .hauch !y .w!.t n-'.sevc-d wouderfully blessed toe human
Many men arenuikinfi litdeor w,th- n,',T,n h" f"- at e fiimil duui,t .h;,s c,Hl'
" ' "-- ' !"Sa..;e. . spicuous Dart, t lie to;;et lotiHer is
K. Di'-'k'-v. tre-'i'sur-r ol srwia! . iC,.,"...t;. i ..-4
Sinie weeks aM the pertpleof Bol-
Southeast News.
Jnor.lein iirg 'n
lkfe bninier.t.it H ti.J. 1 ! n
bg a ji.fiir U-v.rtif itt thi tr v
ctMiritry S-rtii! Urftbn were t km
from !r.iok t.V -. week
"Kit" M.tuird, while nar i .
train lrtwrrt FJvin nrl Mat Ruer
Utiiiirli) trini to comistlt sui
cide bv t'dsi.lnjt hi tlirstt with a
knife. He mt Uken t Fdrniingtoti
and is in a K-mu pmd tkn He
iil pusfi the oiinibit of t!w Un I tiink Tn ckinii of tui ahu has
th re unh w the tr t is $!d to reinovtsl the la-t obstacle to the
mtotber -ttrp'.in' -ts from the ri;4tl enfor-etne nt of the opuoo ti
Cttbrrme mine" . u t ; r.'!c-t that It 1 a w!l -known fact tint the h1.::!
betlrt ore i twt;4 takei ut if that tiger fVtunshes an 1 has fltmrislted
mitw tbna ever rWore ." .oUnng has innicr the shadow of the hTtisil
Iwrti Kmw? a: the Stiver .nines et. !ta'n This slsadow which has hmw
but in4K-itin are tisat In-fore tfie bivn removed has U-n a i'.i.itduap
new er t rorc-.- very f'r tin re 10 the oiiicer hikI others who de
wili w mtk h mttiiug work gtang on sire to have and wtio intend to see
a! that p! h 1-
OtK of the New M.niriil county
night riders was brought to this
iu out of it tteeaune of their ftvlure
to prune, spray and care for their
i trees. Such men have Uen com
1 plaining that they could not sell
(their apples, and enormous quan
' tines certainly were wasted in Mi
Hin orcharJs last f.d! At the
sa t,e time, the growers who had
pr perly matwigtd their orchards,
graded their fruit, and put it into
ci.' i storage for higher prices later in
the winter arc making money out
of their crops. If the on-hards are
not well managed, so mu.-h of the
fr.ai is small, scabby, wormy, or
ot; 'Twi.se so until for storage that a
SbC
nit
n;d diwrict X... 'J .Uh'Wod
i.-1'i.-r.ii rn.ul fat:.J ," . 1,111 ,.f sceei.u
ni.n! ;iR'i Nri.lj.-'- ft-r.iJ, -tistnet 2.
:,t iairuc:!(T..- ir. i'ic A. -
'..'in'ti :a the Nov'-tniicr
bait been "nuraied frtni his wife for .county last Tuesday b ShcniT Kllis
$evtal rar, she IVuig a resident f of Sttt county for safe-keeping
our city up la utut a eat i.v;o Mr New bhlrkl couaty set-tus to have
Ibiaynarvt is the father of Mrs Gconfe more jtriwtners just now than they
Stmther ntl a brother-in-law to are able to house comfortably
Henry AJkins Wr have her-n unable a result they have been scnditig a
to learn
the rasJi act, but uinlerstand that s-tfe-kecping uutil the circuit cwtirt
its nan it-en tiriUKing neavy mamay .cvnvenca in tn.nt county early 111
r!ist.sB N. .January. The priner who was
Steve Gvge was taken to Jeffer- brought here is one who made a con-
,n Cltv vrstrnlav hv Paul Williams fession. Imt later wanted to retract.
and W.V' Mat kin and will hepU-w!' The officials thought it Itest to get
from others who
the kval optmn law enforce! Vio-1
lators of this law can now look out '
for soualls It is fairlv well knuwn
. t 1
.K. , ...! .at ..,,. n.,w sa. -tactory price c;innot tie secure'
j n , inn ii uin in's iv-
mains to I- .tone is to collet t the 1 f"f ": 90 ltd on the market
evideiwe Ibis collection will U- ,!1 ; o;,r shntt' f,,r
taken a:xl U-fore lonJ the sheriff i a!,,) m sh:' f"r Mura-
fruit spoils the market tem-
i t.i .m.-.-v-
an- 1' '; r
ten:
in ! n ,,
S:C;.''' C.kf'l! !i
7. title.
.t.'hn P
puhi.- sehnu;
S. 1. CcCih
.-'f .O),! f:.:;..'
H. I.. M.
for !.:. .
K. t 1. si.i)ih
K.i.:.rd Cr.
cent levy, ,hi,
s-ti-r;ff . I'
KH'.itry and n
home for feet)
linger et.i.ii! g,n,. ,,;)
the muni seat. Titer
cxmniiiou chickens,
n-ediework. etc. But
exhihi'tion at
we saw on
catU , com,
one of the
on of Ceriiia Yunc.
i-iitttintie.1 to M..rer
-i SP.
d
c!;i' f ft iU ures it; comicction wjrti the
t'xlabitioti was the lecture course.
A lady froai Colninbia delivered
:: sp, -y.iid lectures. She said
the mtriiic! ion of agriculture into
our sc.'i.ni.-, was a great step to the
front. Fvery wiu-re we are realizing
it ('.! "I h in- to w,.v !.,
t ', s.
f.,:
.-leeiai ro; i d:
. I'resne!! jiliov
nvryini; !.pn;i
e miiiuej.
hid
fn.r-i to
-1 'o. :t.
sr".i'i
'00k to
tnier forei.i sehimi fund morttrinres
played in gamb
.. n... . . ...I. .. .., . .. t ir r w v against me itronrs
mum rousni hiiii oiioiwniit irw jritHl-r i O'lier (THimtew lor " , .
ilerived trolll trie 14I.lUiI i:i!e .! . re--
will have manv Quests who will
x have plenty of time to reflect on the J ",u w M vnsunwa or : f N"" R. th, John Har iesty, K
A ll ..- ,1,;.. .,r.... n..:... 1 i 1 1 ,. ...
t,ii,i,10v tt,v , u., ... nmk. i c.u till? vtlltM- . i, u. .-. 'tmi.
111.1- we are paying high prices again
Utoze.
I he value of careful spraying is
weli shown by a test in which the
j Ahstraet of fee of Ospar V. Yount,
i ork. iippnivcd and a surplus of Co
; tvliege- cooperatevi with twenty-five j turned over to county trwumrer.
Adjourned to court in course.
1 John H) Pair Passes Am ay at .v-
A meeting of the joint committee ! orchardists and spravcil each or
appomted by ihe St Louis confer- ch-cd four times a year at a cost of
encrs of the M. H Church aixl M F. $2J -'ti an acre. The fruit on the
in lle Mate prison tms imwnin to " ''' " Cnurch suih. to merge Girleton unsprayed trees sold for $18 Man: A letter from R L Pair Deleon
mTve a term of thirty years for the Purged with the same offense. Be- ari(j Marvin cttllegcs met in St Louis acr while that on the spraye.1 Texas, informs us of the death of his
nnmjer or reru name near nestle v .er.,, the Um , ()f ,3St Hwk 81lJ trw wW for $187 1;) an aiWi or f.uh John M Pa . . ,
poinietl a committee to try and sell : more than ten times as much, mak- j Dublin, Texas, on December 2fl. ISM 3.
either or both school properties at . ing the average net profit from tf pneumonia and heart trouble.
He was born in Kentucky Julv 8,
the schools le amvtlidated ami the btki per cent on the investment j 1831; moved to Bollinger county. Mo,
funls derived fmm the sale of the; Pruning may be made to show j in 18T3. Here he resided until ISHC
property to be used toward repair- equally good results, but lnth prim- j ami reared a large family
tn last l-abor day, He was to have " ba etgbt otafsr prisoners in his
been tried Tuesday for the murder keeng. seven of whom will Ite trietl
of his wife at the same time, but m circuit court, wtnen convenes as f(ir,y (,(te ns lHWsibW md tiat , sprav mtj $130.78 an acre, or aUmt
when the case wascallcvt it was ctm- wt Moiway. ine oiner one is
tinned generally. A motion for nr- serving his sentence
rest (A Judgment and a new trial Rev. Nelson a Henry, who has
were in turn overruled by Judge crtargeoi the matter, announces that
ing and paying indebtedness of the ; ing .and spraying is necessary. F j When the war broke out he cast
Dearin after which sentente was the Metlawlist assemWy will be bekl rrty ainej or the purchase of lanrot, of the Agricultural Ex-! hi lot with the Cnfederaev and
pronounced Geonie'i atttmiey an- J"'x 23. He also announces that
nounced that he would file an ap- many improvements will be made
peal of the case to the Supreme court. h meet int
FtxIrirkiowB Tnhun. ld JVfH Newt.
new property if both school proper tension service, says pruning may j he is said to have teen a splendid
ties should lie sold. It was unani- be done any time during the winter : soldier. After the war having last
niousJy decided, we understand, to whui the weathet is warm enough about all of his property he went
go ah.ii w ith the merger pr -K"-vion. make the work comfortable. He to work to retrieve his broken for-
The new year is promising sinje-. At 12 o'clock Thursday night the; It will be vety difficult to sell euher pr-eels to give some brief simple ! tunes. Settling a few miles sou: h
thing great for this county in the curtain was drawn on the last lie us- property. Certainly p-opa of . directions for getting gt.! results j west of Sedge ickville he hewed .ait
way of mining devektpnteut. Every- ed Kiloon In Su Francois county. Farniington are not goia.4 to take by vhat he calls renovation prun- of the forest a good farm and ho: e.
thing Is pointing toward the Buckeye when the license of Felix Dixon at much interest iu hclj ii.g rfTct the ing of apple trees Most of the He w as an industrious, progress ve
.rwilntf tin in lh V'MV IMnr filtilfV Mvins rxnineil Tbiil (Llt.vnn hn -l.- nt the rjirlelmi i.nvw. v with Missouri nrehnnf are e.-rtoudv in farmer a rlev-nr nt.lioin.t I . ...
which will mean much to Frederick- done a lawl office business for the lull knowledge that sura a tiling need of a thoro remwation. and a gvd citizen. Hewasacctr-
tow n anti vicinity. Mine la M-Hte t several weeks, and its finished pro- would mean the sure kvatkm of the Avoid the common practk-e of . tcr member ot Sedgcwickville kk
has olreatly conclodetl to mill her duct the. drunk could be seen schot4 elsewhere. Tite Frederick- cutting off ell the branches easily ; No. 42U, A. F. & A M. and wa in
copper ore here orni not ship it to almost any day staggering away tow a people probably fed the same rem bed from the ground, and leav-! gid standing when the charter was
icl 1 n.v.e to sav 1:, she
sai-i. ' iMit we have been slow to in
irodaee one of the most essentia!
tlhiiii. domestic science." The lec
turer went on totell us that she bail
gone t svli. ml quite a bit. She
graduated from the university and
then stepped out into the world's
great arena of activity "I went
John Owen allowed 2s salary, i oonie witn my diploma, sue saw.
W. It. Limbaug-h allowed sjs sahtry. . "but when I g ; home I found that
K. O. l.ani!Kn allowed $27.4(1 salarj-. I did not know how to cook am! do
things aUtiii ihe house I was not
fit for a home builder." She told us
that she decided to go back to school,
and learn something. She did go and
today she is a very useful woman.
She learned how to do bouse work
and keep a home, h is a common
saying that you can't get a girl these
days tit do housework as it should
lc done They don't know how to
cook. They seldom sweep under the
lu-d The girls are not altogether to
be blamed Their mothers are
largely responsible. The blame part
ly rests upon our school system
We mast pay more attention to
home building. Can anyone explain
why we keep the dead languages in
our schools when it means the ex
clusion of manual laNr. domestic
science, etc How long are the
universities going to dictate our cur
riculum" They have done this and
they are still doing il Then in the
fa v of it all we are compelled to
listen to one iro.n the university
tell us that wt ,::e not teaching the
useful art Ik F. WriAtK
U is a long lane that has no turn
ing iVwn at Springfield the owner
Nebraska for refining purpose, j from its door. Several barkeepers way about it. But we do need and ing the tree looking like a large i surrendered.
Spk-kerman L Company have the i were employed to wait on the tradej want the consolidated scbottl This feather duster. Begiu at the topj lies.! his property and moved ,f a dray was assessed $125 damages
Cos ney tract leased, report that ' and the profits for tlie past three is bei on J question the proper loca and thin out branches which shade i to Dublin, Texas, in HW2, He wa bec,uie his vehicle ran down a minor
there Is lead In abundance and they j months are sakl to nin Into the thoution for it fmm every view-point, the center of the tree t.m much. If grow ing old then and he hal been car St Joseph Ohecrver
