'iiiat'J Hintorical Society
Taney County Republican
Vol. 21. No. 8.
FORSYTH, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, JANUARY f, 1916.
Four Pages.
The Republican National Committee
Meeting
As was to have been expected, the
Democratic newspapers are seeking to
create the impression that the recent
meeting of the Republican National
Committee constituted a triumph for
the so called "old guard" of the party.
The harmony and enthusiasm which
characterized that meeting rilled the
Democrats with fear and the word was
immediately passed to Democratic
editors to herald it as "an old guard
victory." Of course, there is no found
ation for these reports. The meeting
was not only harmonious, but was
characterized by a remarkable disposi
tion on the part of the friends cf the
various candidates to subordinate all
personal prejudices and predilections
to the success of the party. The man
who will be named at Chicago will
be the one who then appears to be
best fitted to lead the party to victory
aod to give the country so good an
Administration as to insure continued
Republican success. The nearest
which the Committee came to anything
like a test of strength betwaen the old
guard and the more progressive ele
ment of the party resulted in a victory
for the latter. The selection of a
toraporary Chairman of the Convention
advocated by certain of the oldsters,
was deferred and delegated to the
Committee on Arrangements.
Counts Pleasure Part of Good Roads
Value
Not all the value of good roads is to
be counted in dollars saved the farmer
who hauls his products to town or to
the tourist who uses his automobile
every day, but there is an added value
in the satisfaction of meeting ycur
neighbors in the country. This is the
side of good roads values seen by H.
A. LaRue, instructor in civil engineer
ing in the University of Missouri at
Columbia.
The argument for rock reads most
often used, says Mr. LaRue, is the
direct saving to the farmer in hauling
his products to market. This is hard
to prove in some cases, he says, be
cause the cost of building the road may
be too great and the amount of travel
insufficient to justify such an expendi
ture. The argument by which he ap
peals more forcibly to farmers is the
increased pleasure of visiting made
possible by rock roads.
The farmer now has before him sev
eral months of bad weather. Much
of the time it will be impossible to
travel over dirt roads. With mud
hub-deep, as is often the case in Mis
souri, it is impossible, savs Mr. LaRue,
to get a vehicle beyond the front
gate.
With smooth hard roads, he says, a
trip can be made as easily in winter as
in summer. The cold, he points out,
is not so disagreeable when one goes
at a good speed as when dragging
at a snail's pace through mud or bump
ing over frozen ground, which threatens
to (brow one from the carriage if the
horses go faster than a walk.
The farmer's automobile, says Mr.
LaRue, is almost useless on dirt roads
in winter. Recent reports show the
saving that might be made by the use
of motor cars on the farm. Their use
is dependent upon good roads.
The proposed tax on each owner of
a motor vehie'e of $10 a year for five
years, making $5,000,000 available for
a road fund, would be sheap insurance,
on automobile tires alone, according to
Mr. LaRue.
The Dardanelles Failure
The only thing successful about the
Hied campaign in the Dardanelles was
the withdrawal. That was accomplish
ed without loss of men or guns. It
required no gift of prophecy to pre
dict many weeks ago that the campaign
would be abandoned. The inevitable
end was seen long before Gen. Ian
Hamilton was remoed. The first
English cabin ;t shake-up, following
the resignation of Lord Fisher as first
sea lord and admiral ol the fleet, grew
out of the tilure in the Dardanelles.
The story that Kiichnei'i mission to
the Near East was to reorganize the
campaign received little credence.
It had been demonistrated the forts
were impressible before battleships,
and that it would require much larger
land forces than were available to
capture Constantinople. It was a
doomed enterprise.
It is now to speculate on what might
have been done. The report that the
Turks were out of ammunition at the
at the close of the fighting March 18
may be true. It sounds like stories of
the large sums burglars overlooked.
The fact is that the bombarument did
not continue on March 19 and the
way to Codstantinople was not opened.
Turkish claims that the withdrawal
came as a result of a violent offensive
by their troops are mere vaunting.
The withdrawal was apparently long
premeditated and was carried out with
out accident.
Whether the troops will be used in
the Balkans is prob'ematic. Serbia
seems to be past rescue. The entente
may feel like punishing the Bulgars
and the Russians may be bent on ob
ligations to the Balkans. They msy
strive to prevent any of them joining
tne central poweis, but, aside from th s,
there is nothing of particular interest
in that neighborhood, since the cap
ture of Constantinople is impossible.
The suspicion that Germany has eyes
on Persia, India and Egypt is still
strong. But the real ork of the
allirs is on the western front. If :hey
are successlul there it matters little
what success some branch of the Ger
man army may temporarily have else
where. Globe-Democrat
We foresee the time when scolding
about automobiles will cease. When
everybody has one. Hurry up.
From a Road Booster
Editor Republican: The modern
newspaper or farm paper would be very
incomplete without something about
good roads. It seems as if people of
years ago never fully realized the ad
vantage of good roads, and adhered to
the simple rule ol following a few
blazed or scalped places on trees,
which was quite handy, as one seldom
got off the road, for the very good rea
son that you were never on a road, and
we have followed for three or four days
at a time on a county road, and the
only way we knew we were on a county
road was by keeping a watch for the
three notches on a tree by the wayside.
Last week we had occasion to travel
through Ozark and Taney counties for
seventy mi es or more, going west
from Gainesville. Directly out of
Gainesville we came to the long talked
of state road to Forsyth. They have
done some excellent work for a mile or
so, and all they lack to have a first
class road is to get it packed and
dragged, as at that time it was vtry
muddy, but nevertheless bids fair to
make a number one road in the Dear
future.
The best road we ever saw in Taney
or Ozark counties was a small stretch
of road east of Theodosia. This road
certainly ought to make the anti state
roadists look down their noses. The
overseer on this hill certainly knows
his business. On inquiry we learned
that his name was Alex Crumley, and
people desiring to get a good inside
track on road building should see him.
No more work on the state road h
done to the Ozark county line, and
the Taney side is not surveyed from
between Cedarcreek and Kissee Mills,
but over near the river they are doing
some noticeable work in the way of
clearing out the right of way, while
near Forsyth they are preparing to
erect a new wagon bridge. On the
Protem and Nnce road, an ordinary
county road, there is some excellent
work d m' in the way of grading. On
inquiry we learned that the name ol
the overseer was Abe Cole.
The good road idea is certainly a
great one to all parties concerned, and
every citizen of the community is con
cerned, and we often wonder if the
automobile had not come if the good
road proposition would not have been
delayet tor a century, or perhaps
longer. , COONIE ROSS.
Washington Letter
Washington, Jan. 5 A good story
is being told about the capitol of some
of the events that happened at the re
cent democratic caucus, which had
under consideration the resolution ex
tending the provisions of the present
"war" revenue tax, for the coming
year. Some of the new members ol
Congress evidently did not warm up to
this proposition, in the ranks of the
democracy, and they desired a little
light on the subject. It is said that
one new member inquired very minute
ly into the necessity of ever putting
this "war" tax burden on the people,
and that gossip leaking out cf the
caucus is to the effect that Represen
tative Claude Kitchinol North Carolina,
the democratic floor leader, in replying
to the query of the freshman member,
stated the levying ol the war tax in
time ol peace became necessary, owing
to the fact that the Underwood bill had
failed to come up to its requirements
as a revenue producer and that the
sump tax became essential to meet
th running expenses of the govern
ment. The discussion is said to have
brought out the further fact that the
Underwood bi 1 in its first draft, was a
conservative revision of the tariff,
but that it did not meet with the ap
proval of either the President or Bryan
and that it was returned to the Ways
and Means Committee with the request
for a more radical revision of the sched
ules. A second and third draft were
submitted and met the same fate.
Then it is said the bill was turned
over to the President so that the sche
dules could be adjusted to meet his
views and ideas, and that it was really
at the White House that the drastic
conditions imposed by the provisions
of the Underwood, bill were drafted.
It is being talked in the cloak rooms
that when this fact was stated in the
democrotic caucus, one of the old and
well-known democratic members ex
claimed: "Well, don't let him frame
another",
Former Governor Charles Miller
Floyd of New Hampshire, one of the
Republican leaders of that state, was a
recent visitor at the capitol, where he
was a dinner guest of the members of
Congress from that state. In speaking
of the political outlook in his state he
said: "New Hampshire, as well 29
the rest of the New England slates, has
returned to the party of progress and
prosperity. The voters there have
had enough of closed and curtailed
mills and factories. The factions in
the republican party was once more
united and working in harmony and
the third party movement has practic
b'.ly disappeared as such. With this
condition prevailing and the lessen
that has been taught the people by the
democratic blunders in its tariff and
business policy, Nw England can be
counted to return to normal conditions,
which means large and emphatic
republican majorities.
"I can tell you", said a democratic
Congressman, "that I am not leaving
for home with any particular political
joy in my heart, over the action of
mv party in imposing this hated stamp
tax on the yeople for another year. I
said on the stump and in my personal
correspondence that it would not, in
my opinion, be continued after the
first of the year. I think this act is
going to be very distasteful to the pub
lic, for as everybody knoms, it has al
ready caused lots of grumbling. That
one feature of being compelled to pay
one cent long distance telephone mes
sages is one of the most exasperating
things that you run up against almor.t
every day. I think it would have been
much more politic to have issued bonds
to have met the deficiency, for the
people would have soon forgotten this,
but the stamp tax, like the itch and
the measles and other nuisances, are
with us always and you run into it so
many limes that yon can never forget
it. I voted for it for party's sake,
not because I acted on my best judg
ment."
Universal Military Service
Although this county will be willing
to spend all that is necessary to train
and equip officers enough for a large
army and will support the larger reg
ular foice the Panama .Canal and our
insular possessions require.it will not
agree to universal military service. It
may be freely admitted that conscrip
tion is much fairer than the volunteers.
The draft was used in the civil
war, although it was not popular. But
there is a settled sentiment against
universal military service in time of
peace. The War department endan
gers its modest program of prepared
ness by suggesting that it will be fol
lowed by universal service. There is
not a well-informed member in Con
gress who does not know that sentiment
is over whelmingly against such a plan.
It would increase taxation beyond
w hat the people could bear and would
impose a special burden on every male
of military age and condition.
The attitude of the United States
toward the subject of defense is the
one taken by President Jackson in his
first inaugural. Although himself a
man cf blood and iron, he opposed a
large stading army while favoring en
larment of the navy. Secretary Gar
rison in his annual report argued that
universal military service is an imposi
bility, however desirable experts might
fiud it. It is hard to believe that the
deliberate conclusions of his official
report have been so speedily over
turned. When he hears from the
country he will relurn to his previous
stand. Various societies are beating
tomtoms fur preparedness, but if they
hope to turn the United States into
an armed camp they have failed to
reckon with the spirit of Americans.
Globe-Democrat.
Candied Cranberries
. Candied cranberries make a delicioui
and inexpensive confection much re
sembling candied cherries but having
a distinct flavor of its own. This is a
suggestion to housewives from the
home economics experts of the depart
ment, who have been developing new
uses for the cranberry. They have
developed a method which, if followed
closely gives a bright, firm, plump,
semitransparent candied fruit which
can be eaten as a sweetmeat or used
tc give a touch of color to frosted cakes
whipped cream, or custards, or which
can be used like citron in cakes or
puddings, or chopped up and added
to tulti frutti ice creams.
The secret of candying cranberries
lies in handling the fruit so that it will
become saturated with sugar. This
calls for slow cooking on the install
ment plan and the use of a dish large
enough to permit all the berries to
float at the top of the syrup during the
cooking. The skins are so tough
that they must be pierced before cook
ing to let the sirup into the pulp or
interior. To do this three little slits,
each one-eighth inch long, should be
made in each berry with a pen knife.
Use selected, large, firm cranberries.
The directions for cooking are as
follows:
For 1 1 2 cups of berries m.ke a
thin sirup by boiling together until
clear 2 cups of sugar and 2 12 of
water. When the sirup is cool add
the berries and bring very slowly to
boiling point. If the berries ate heat
ed too quickly, the skins will burst be
fore the sirup soaks into the pulp.
As soon as the dish boils take the dish
on the stove aod let it stand over
night. Next day drain the sirup from
from the perries and boil it until it is
reduced to about half its orignal vol
ume. Put the berries into this
medium-thick sirup and heat slow'yj
boil gently for three or four minutes
and then allow to stand for two hours
or more. Then boil gently a third
time (cr five minutes. A smaller dish
probably will be needed for the third
and last boiling. When thoroughly
cold cr, better still, on the following
day, drain off the sirup and spread the
berries out on a lightly buttered plate
or a sheet of clean, waxed or lightly
buttered paper until the surface of the
berries dries.
Joe berries, if directions have been
followed will candy separately and not
into a sticky mass.
To make a delicious ice cream add
one half to three-fourths cup of chop
ped berries to each quart of the cream
mixture. They also can be combined
with bits of candied orange or lemon
peel, or other glace f.uits to make
tutti-frutti ice cream. The sirup left
over after the berries are candied has
a pleasant sweet-acid flavor and fine
color and is excellent in pudding
sauce or even when diluted with
water for use on pancakes, waffles,
etc.
Malaria In U. S. Costs Sixty Million A
Year
In s. few years malarial fever may be
regarded as a matter of history, just
as we now regard yellow fever, if we
only listen to the precepts of preven
tive medicine. This is the conclusion
of Elbert L. Spence, instructor in pre
ventive medicine and bacteriology in
in tho School of Medicine of the
University of Missouri at .Columbia,
in a bulletin recently published on the
prevention of malaria. The loss of the
United States from malaria is, he esti
mates, $60,000,000 a year. Malaria
is a preventable disease.
The methods recommended by the
department of preventive medicine for
the prevention of malaria are the de
struction of the mosquito, the preven
tion of access of the mosquito to man,
prevention of infection of the mosquito
with the malarial parasite and the pro
tection of persons against malarial
fevers by means of quinine.
The mosquito gets the parasite from
a person infected with malaria. It de-
velopes within its body the descenants
of this parasite, which are deposited in
the salivary glands of the insect and
placed in the blood of a man as the
mosquito bites.
There are three kinds of parasites.
One of ' these develops in forty eight
hours, another in seventy-two and third
in from twenty-four to forty-eight.
The first two produci the two-day and
the three-day chiils. The third kind
produces irregular chills. If there are
more than one family of parasites in
one's body, the chills may be more
frequent. Two families cf the forty
eight hour kind may develop at fre
quent times and produce a chill every
day or two chills every other day.
The cerebral malaria causes about 60
per cent of the deaths from the disease.
The parasite then develops in the
brain.
The mosquito breeds in clear water.
It avoids the sunlight. Drainage and
the removal of weeds will remove the
possibility of its development. But in
addition to the drains, hog wallows
must be filled and broken bottles, tin
cans and rain barrels, favorite places
of breeding, must be removed. Oil
on water will prevent the deposit of
eggs.
Quinine is the greatest protection
of man against malaria. When the
symptons of malaria, of which chills
are the final determinant, are noticed,
quinine should be taken regularly.
About five grains a day or fifteen every
four days will prevent the deveopment
of the disease.
The President'! speech to the Dem
ocratic National Committee was not
given out for publication. Consequent
ly, we must depend upon the sporadic
memory of his hearers for a transcript
of his language. He has been quoted
as saying: "Our constructive work has
started an irresistible movement which
cannot be stopped". This must be
erroneous. What he must have said
"our destructive work," because the
work of the democratic party in de
stroying a protective tariff has most as
suredly started "an irresistible move
ment" to put the democrats out of
power. And that movement, of a
truth, "cannot be stopped".
Of course it is not to be overlooked
that the new Commission which Mr.
Wilson proposes to investigate railroad
conditions will provide a few more jobs
for the faithful.
No doubt this long" session of
Congress will prove to be too long for
the President.
A Botchof A Tariff
The weakness of the Underwood
tariff are named legion. It failed,
when in normal operation, to protect
American industries and Americas
labor from a flood of products of poorly
paid labor. It failed to provide the
treasury with normal revenue. It
stimulated importation of undutiable
goods until the total value of imports
for the first eight months of 19 IS ex
ceeded that of the same period in
1913, in spite of the war. Its clause
to encourage American bottoms has
been construed to mean a rebate of 5
per cent on all duties except on goods
brought in French or Russian vessels.
If the war should end with the tariff
unchanged, ! countless shiploads of
goods from Europe would be dumped
on our market to displace goods made
by American laborand American capi
tal. Even the theoretical free trader,
prone to rhapsodize about the world
market, the best in the world, cannot
defend the Underwood act, for it gave
away the weapons with which nations
now fight commercial battles. Other
countries have tariffs, some having
both import and export duties, with
maximum and minimum clauses. In
the days when business sense instead
of academic theories reigned at Wash
ington, we compelled Brazil to enter
three Amoricao products free in return
for our placing coffee on the free list.
Yet under the Underwood act we let
in all kinds of products from South
American countries to levy any import
duties they please against American
wares. We let in logs and lumber
free, and Canada at once levied an ex
port duty on lumber, so as tc make it
worth while to move sawmills to the
Canadian side, pay taxes to Canada
and employ Canadian laborers, who
spend their wages in Canada. We
opened our ports to French merchan
dise unmindful of the tariffs France
maintained on American products.
The best thought of England now
favors a system of tariffs, for trading
purposes if for nothing more. Eng
land cannot make an advantageous
commercial treaty because it has noth
ing to give lor the concessions it asks.
The Underwood tariff has placed the
United States in the same helpless
position. It is wrong in its general
purposes and wrong in its details.
Globe-Democrat.
Mrs. Louisa Hammond Lewallen
Olvey, Ark., Dec 29th. Mrs. Lou
isa Hammonr1 Lewallen, aged 74, wife
of J. B. Lewallen, a retired farmer
and business man of this place, died
of pneumonia and was buried at the
Holmes cemetery near Olvey. She
was born at Bellville, 111, her parents
moving to Christian County Mo.,
when she was eight years old. She
married to J. B. Lewallen in 1S64 at
at Ozark, Mo., later they moved to
Forsyth, Mo. where they lived eleven
years and where they left rainy friends.
Mr. Lewallen bought property here
and built a home about four years ago
and it was their intention to spend the
remaining years of their life here.
Sjnce coming to Olvey, Mrs. Lewallen
has made many close friends who
mourn her death. Her life was full
of the Christian virtue5, patience and
loving-kindness which she showed
forth in her daly life.
Rev. T. Edwards, of Green Forest,
a life long friend of the Lewallen fam
ily preached the funeral sermon. He
appealed to the surving members cf
the family and friends urging that if
they ever met Mrs. Lewallen acain
they would have to meet her in heaven.
Mrs. Lewallen is survived by five
children, as follows: J. O. Ferguson,
of Neosho, Mo., Mrs. T. M. Casey,
of Forsyth, Mo., J. L. Lewallen and
B. G. Lewallen, of Olvey, the latter
being agent for the M. & N. A. R. R.
Co. at this place.
Miss Lewallen, a grand-daughter, hai
been Mrs. Lewallen'i constant com
panion during the last few jean. The
entire community mourns the loss of
a good friend and neighbor.
