- - . .-
f'
TIT? yi y
-
;airGiisia IDembcrat
VOL XXI 1, NO 52
HENDERSONVILLE, N. C. THURSDAY? JANUARY 6. 1916
1.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE
II. M. OATES ANNOUNCES
CREAMERY STOCKHOLDERS
: NEW YE
if
HIMSELF FOR STATE SENATE
S-CIIV1I0SI
HOLD IMPORTANT MEETING
hew w mmmm m
1IME5 FiliilifiiiP
HALFYEARESIIlATEOFIGORtS
A SODIART OF THE RESULTS Or
THE CITY SHOW IMPROVEMENT
SUBSTANTIAL NATURE (
The mistier is presenting uerem 4
"brief review of trie work doneby-thfc
city departments daring the past fe
..mcntlis. From it it may be seenthaH
eellent work has been done byjall oi
them', and none has been loafing: oh. thX
30D. iriarmony exists ueiween th
different departments, and .little i
left for criticism. : - -
iie presciii aUiuanauauouvame intn
office thrci gi the elections of laslt
y. summer, and consists of a "split
ticket, four Demcctats and -three Re
.' . publicans coiutiiuti-ig tjie . governm
board. The D 02:001 atic members a 1
Mayer C. E'rooks, Councilmen
Baiky, M. II. Shepherd and J. S. Fe
west. The Republicans are Messrs. 1
.c. u:".rKe, iirowniow jacicson, .an
King Morris. '
The councilmen have accomplishd
much and have tackled, in earnest
least two big propositions,- viz, tfcie
: question of additional water suppljj-:
and the disposition of the dilapidate;!
city hall. As to the former, matter
are in such shape that it is inadvisa
ble to print anything con.oerningi.thie
steps taken until a future date. The
. citj hail has been advertised for sabe,
and failing in this council purposed
: making repairs and alterations in flue
building suitable for its utilization fpr
, all departments of the city's work., j
A detailed statement of the woik
done by the different departments
since the present officials took charjge
- in June 1915 is set out below, t ' is
inot official, and . is intended ;only-jas
general information. '. y'.'j , " : ;- ;' ,
Tne , roiiee ieparnnenu;
cers constitute the regular police fore
or the city; Chief Otis V. Powets; !
privates J. A. Bryson, T. C. Willia m
and Walter Reese. j
During the past six months ther
have been made by the police a tqtal
or 152 arrests. From these total fines
amounting to $519.21 have been Col
lected, the costs going to the city, and
the remainder to the public schools.
Convictions have been had in about
ninety-five per cent of all cases tried
before the Mayor. In addition to
fines collected, and prisoners released,
other cases have been disposed of as
follows: bound over to snperior court,
Vj; sent to the roads, 3; jail sentences
several; fines suspended and released
on probation, several; included in
these total figures are 8 persons sent
u for retailing. A number of j wo
men were ordered to leave town 1 and
have complied.
The Street Department.
Extensive work has been done br
tho street department. A regular; sys
An incendiary fire destroyed a crib 1
nn the fnT-rn of t v mvtvm nt F.fWch. '
containing over 100 bushels of corr.,
lart. Wednesday morning about, i
o'clock, according to a. mescage re
ceived here by telephone.
The house was located rjear Etowah
stat on, being the property of J. .
Biythe, who is living in Henderson
ville during the winter in order thai
h'.v, children may attend school.;
;The origin or iiie fire is unknown
bu L the PPn nro 1 'unr.noiMnn omnntr thu
v-tius oi nitowah is that tne ouiiaing
was set fire. Officers were ( called
from Hendersonville and are now
working on the case. Blood hounds
were requested from Asherille. but thi
information was received that Bun
combe county's dogs were not train
enough to do much good. The 'author-
ities in Greenville, S. C.,- were called
over the telphone and it .was ;leariicd
that the blood hounds of that county
were then in Columbia.1 - -M
i When asked by the Hustler repref
sentatlve whether the suspects were
white or colored people it was' Intrma
ted that they were white people and
that it was thought that'' they would
be caught within the next few days. ..
AT THE QUEEN. : : J
'The Price," now in its screen ver-
sion. from th ni.'t. r.pnr?A Brnad- '
J r . I
nurst comes to the Queen theatre on,
Thursday, January GTwith Helen Ware,
star of 'The Third Degree, "The De
serters," and scored of other promi
nent successes, in the role she created.
"The Price," n 5 acts and two hun-
Gu li etowIhonWdnesday
THE VARIOUS DEPARTMENTS OF
MUCH OF PERMANENT AND
NOW BEING DONE.
tern-has been followed in conducting
the work, and the city has been pretty
well covered as a result. Much grad
ing and opening of drains have: been
COniDleted, While a lartre rmfinfitv n"
sclay -and sand hi.s been placed on the
roadways and on1 some sidewalks.
Some few culverts have been.. ;
and bridges repaired where: needed.
In addition, those places in the ar 1
surfaced streets that needed attention
.'jsi nave oee
... . l f . i
ui), and this m
Tiis' de".artm
sweeper for cbout two months -Ia:s'.'
Siimmer, who gave his whole time to
keeping Main street ' free from dirt.
An average of about, ten. men are em-
akes travelin- easier, a democrat. For the past ten years he. surTnorters and a vote of appreciation X""r;' u""6-.. - 1
ployed to do the work necessary. Th.ajb.as repeatedly been a delegate to" the
department is; equipped with a large 1 various district conventions. -'He has
sweeper, two road machines and a, a state magistrate for the past-seveii
water wagon
The Water Works Department.
Under Superintendent A. A. McCjiII,
the water and sewer departments have
been bu.sy. A step in advance was
made when in September new plumb
ing laws arid a plumbing code was
adopted by7 the city, the good effects
of which are already manifest. Unde:
the new superintendent a total of 1430
feet of new water lines have been put
in. In addition 11930 feet, of sewer pipes
have beeri laid; two fire plugs instat
ed; four cut offs placed; 14 sewer taps
and 4 water. meters added. There
nave -been . twenty "roughing in"-jTi
spections made, and sixteen
snectiona.O - - -T--1.-." 5
. : :: vie The Fire Departmenf ; y -
Under- tfceneW admijaistfaUo
the "fire" department. A larger hose
wagon has been secured, which an-
swers more adequately the needs of
the department. 1000 feet of the best
grade of hose has - been purchased,
which additional amount puts the de
partment on the safe side in case of a
srge fire. Police Chief C. V. Powers
is also chief of the. fire department.
The driver is Burgen Staton.
The Wealth Department.
During the last few months a sala
ried health officer has been employed
by the city ,,the services of Dr. J.
Frank Cranford having been secured.
Under him there has been a largo
amount of good in the way of educa
tion along sanitation lines done, and
many improvements have been brought
about in conditions existing.
There have been made 187 milk in
spections; 260 meat inspections; dai
ries visited 4; slaughter house visits 4;
number of nuisances abated. 30; jail
'vis'ts. ?: di.ohtneria examinations
ivade, 3 000; dairies condemned, 1.
dred and fifty-three
scenes, was pro
duced by t.
, i,-.-TH-rli Fin, Hornnrri-
f.ion for the Equitable program, and
will be seen for the first time in thi3
! vic.nity.
SEVERE WIND AND RAIN
CAUSE DAMAGE IN COUNTY.
Greatest Kavoc to Roads; Mod Greek
Left Banks Bringing to Realiza
tion the Big Lake, for a Time. (
On Tuesday n.'ght of last week Hen
dersonville and Henderson county
were visited by one of the severest
wind and rain storms experienced m
j'ears. No great material damage was
done, so far "has been reported here.
For several hours during the night
a wind that 'must have , been nearly
seventy miles an hour in velocity blew,
across the mountains from. Southwest, j
having originated somewhere along
the gulf coast Storm warings were
sent out on Tuesday, but before the
public eenerally knew. of. the approach
of the storm it , had come and gone.
. .-Although -;aunng:. ine past .iwcive
months .heavier rainfalls have been
recorded ? for twentyfonr hours, local
ly, seldom has so much of it remained
above ground so long. The ground
everywhere was. saturated as a result
of former rains and the heavy snow.
storm of the preceedmg wee,, ana was
-rvTahi . of fakirs - ud -the surplus
water as it fell. The result of una
was that streams in and near Hender-
sonville were as full as they have beenj
at any time in recent years, and took,!
' . .... .' . . ' "J
(Continued on Editorial-Page.) :
1
Gives Assurance. That He Wiir Fight
7 for tire Beneht of His District; Has
, - Seme Polifccai. Record.''
-R.M.. Oates, chairman of the county
democratic executive committee,; pres
ident :of the Hendersonville Light and
Power company, and one of the coun
ty's vicad.ng citizens, lias announced
himself a candidate for the .democratic
nomination to represent" the Thirty -sscond
Senatorial district . of North
Carolina. - ' - :. -'- ..; "
In an interview with a Hustler rep-that S8 farmers had already subscrib
resentative Mr. Oates said that he re--; e-1 to stock at $50 ned share. It is the
1 aiized 'that it was some time yet be-
fore the primary but that s.nce anota: , 60 shares among the patrons of the
er candidate had announced nimseii creamery. ;
he felt that he should let his fiieridi t Ur. A. C. Wheeler, manager of the
know that he was in the race, too. Mr. j Biitmore farms, presided at the meet
Oatesis very enthusiastic over;the oitt- :Egi Col.'.T. Gilbert Wood, of the In
lcok. He has been approacned by a dxis'trial department of the Southern
large number of h.s friends who "have Kail way company. T. Cornelius, of the
; g-:ven him their assurance of a hearty
isrppdrt. lie states that with the aid , o-griculture, and A. J. Reed, nfjhp.
' o his friends he can carry the district ' North Carolina Experiment station at
1 and' that if eletced he will give his disr'fjtajeiga, made short talks to the farm
trict and state the best that is in him. 'eS.V The information they conveyed
r . x -i i v. 3
executive committee, and for the pas
, tvc years has been chairman of tha
1 body. He has attended every damo
j cratic state convention since 1SO8 ana
years. -
"If I am elected, I will oppose and
fig-lit anything that would harm m
district and with eQual vigor vork, for
anything that would benefit my peo
ple "said Mr. Oates. .; .
A BARN BURNS.
The fire alarm was turned in last
Saturday night when the barn of fi:
Cahn, on the Mount Hebron road "was
burned. The fire wagon made a re
cord run out Fifth avenue., but when
it was found that the fire was out of
the city limits it returned. The
v . runtof damages has not
been
. - -"Ii
t " ntfrt: ".Thp-eiimiTK'r res'dfltiPA ht Ml.
i "was not occupied. - -'''f'": V-'
JUDGE EWART
i - -i. k i.u" x,..- "i'ciauuus uave ueeu Koine iorwara
OF NEW STATE PRIMARY LAW
Writes the Editor of Hustler, Bt the Request of Citizens, a
Summary of the Law Which Effects all but 49 Counties
Editor Hustler.
At the request of numerous citizens
I have prepared and submit to your
journal for publication a summary of
the primary law enacted by the Ge.
eraly Assembly at its session 1915.
With the exception of forty nine
counties which were excepted from
toe provisions of the act, this is now
the law in North Carolina.
On the first Saturday In June next
(1S16) a primary election will be held
at the several election precincts in
Henderson county for the purpose of
nominating candidates of each and
every political party in the State for
the following named offices, viz:
President of the United States, vice
president, Congress Tenth district.
Senator Thirty-second North Carolina
district, House of Representatives
this county, Sheriff, Register - of
Deeds, County Commissioners, Coro
ner, Constable, Justices Peace.
County boards to hold this election
are appointed by the State Board of
Elections at Raleigh- on the 10th Sat
urday preceding this election, viz:
first Saturday in June.
On the 7th Saturday preceding this
election the county boards of elec
tior. will meet at Hendersonville and
shall appoint a registrar and two
judges of election in the manner as
now prescribed by law.
The registrars and judges so ap -
pointed shall serve as such at the gen -
eral election in November.
All of the officers appointed shall
be sworn before entering upon their!
duties.
Every candidate for President, Vice
Picsident, Congress, or any State
office shall file with the State Board
of Elections at least six weeks before
the primary election is held, a notice
stating his party affiliations, the office j
for which he is a candidate, and a j
pledge to; abide by the result of and
- JIJA- , 2 i
nated In such primary by t$e political
party with which he affiliates.
Every candidate for State Senator,
member ' House Representatives and
all county 'officers shall file a -like no
tice and pledge with the county board
of elections at least two weeks before
such primary; is held. " ...f .
. All candidates- ih- a primary for
State or district . offices,'-. . or.-for .the
State Senate in a district composed of
more than one county shall under oath
file with the Secretary ' of State art
item'zed account of all monies spent
either by himself or others in the in
terest of his ejection and every can
didate for the State Senate in d'stricts
composed of more than one county.
and for members of the, House, and
ell -county -officers shall file the same
statement before the Clerk Superior
Court thIs county Twenty days after
thg prjmary. jg held similar sworn
ctntmpnta mnst h filpil hpfnr .tTro
cleric If not done all parties, violat
Lack - Desired Number of Sliareliold
eis, But Think When Routes Are
r . Made Others Will Join.
:-A meeting, of the stockholders and
supporters of the Blue Ridge Creamery
V.s he'd Monday morning in the offices
oi the city hall. Ahout forty farmery
and .citizens were present. The ob
ject of the meeting wag to perfect final
pi-Lns Tor the reorganization of th.?
enterprise on the co-operative plan.
The report of the secretary showed
. desire of the officers to place at lease
dairy division of the U. S. Department
committee was appointed with R.
W. Fletcher, chairman to present a.
the next meeting a map of the. county
meeting a map of the. county
she wing all the proposed routes to be - remarked not long ago that he not.ced
mfede by creamery wagons. Quite a Farticuiarly this winter pn increased
number of farmers nave been holdir. number of carpenters and day labor
br,clt their subscription to stock until ; erg here this. time of tne
tLc-y know whether they are to be ag oompared with previous winters,
reached by a wagon. A number of T1.e meTchanta are perhaps the first
farmers do not keep enough cows to jto notice the exit of tbe laborin clag3
warrant their own delivery of the , ot people Th are steady weekly
product to the creamery. It is thought ti.aders and the income from trade
that! when, the route matter settled ig gmall amount to the It0cal busi
there will be enough new stocknold- neg houseSf
eie and customers pledged to make With &n increase in building opera.
tcA po-operative plan a success. tion the farmep fs wtpr ah1fi tA Rell
& TSe local promoters are very en
thusiastic over the prospects and arc
Snri in their belief that the enterprise
will; mean a great deal more to Hen
derson county than the average citizen
newj realizes.
TThe next meeting will be held on
February-7, at the city hall. There will
slrb be a meeting held in Brevard in
U-juear future. , . ; .'
ing this section will be indicted in the
Superior court for a misdemeanor.
Atthe time of filing notice of can
didacy for the several county nnlce.
which notices are on a printed form
furnished and paid for by the county
board of election, the following sums
must be paid in cash to the county
boards of election:
State Senator $5.00
Member House. . . . . . .$5.00
All other county candidates $5.00 ex
cept surveyor, coroner and county
commissioners who shall pay one dol
lar each.
No fees are received of candidates
for constables and township officers.
When the names of those who are
carididates for the State Senate, House
and all county and township offices are
furnished within the time fixed by law
to the county board of elections the
names ot all the cand dates are print
ed at the expense of the county and
these ba-lots are called the "official
ballots," and are the only ones which
can be voted or counted. v
These ballots are required to do
sent to the r several registrars by the
county board of elections at least six
days before the primary is held, and
rce:pts must be taken by the board
jfrom each registrar Tor the same.
Registrars must have these official
ballots at the polls on the day of the
! primary and no other tickets can be
1 voted in such primary,
If other tickets are found in the
.boxes they will be thrown out.
A "political party" is defined by the j
aci as a party whose candidates were ;
voted for on a State ticket at the elec
tion in 1914; so in the coming elec
tion three different tickets if properly
put out can be voted for in the pri
nvary, viz: Democratic, Republican and
Progressive,
All ballots
white paper,
have to be printed on
in black . ink, and the
. a .
name of the political party whose bal- .
t a sa. t - i iii s a. j : j 4t'n
GWES
iot it is snail ue priuicu ui uuiu iauc j souaiy; a Dima man coum see mat.
type at the top of the ballot. -:r. S It is the logical summer home of a
It is made the duty -of the county j great and wonderfully prosperous
board to have -the official ballots: so ! South, whose people are going to come
printed' as to -lia.ethe names ot;. the here every year in constantly increas
uf posing candidates for office alternate iiig . numbers. We - must , provide .tor
in position upon the ballot.- r j the proper entertainment : of ?otir visi-
These are small' squares opposite-;.tora; . .." . -
te names of .ieaeir candidates t:.oe ?':' t'We need" a park in' addition to Lau-
vtted for on each official ballot from-'relsPark.-: We need a city park-Hsomc
President down vto' constable; V? -' ' centrally- located . beauty, spot where
' -Voters' are required to make a cfrciss our- gnuests I may rest; where the ohil
mark So X in each square oppbsite . dren may play, and where- municipal
the name of the party for whom, he;de- i bi-pd concerts may be given, v .-,
sires to vote.-'" "I know 'of no property .'better suit;
If he cannot read,1 or write he m ed. to this purpose than the old home
ask any judge 'of the election to aid of Mrs. Hawk'ns I sincerely trust thi
him in making up his ballot. . . authorities may see their way clear tc
. The Statute requires the. county give the people immediately this ad
commiss'oner to prepare a private ditional city asset."" '
room or bootq. near, the -polling place . There -s said to be a wide-spread
where each voter-may prepare his sentimeit pjnongst all classes of Hen
ballot. He is not permitted to scratch -dersonville citizens favoring the im- .
-r- '' ' -: --j mediate establishment of the munic-
- ; (Continued on Last Page.) f -! Ipal - play-ground. -Negotiationhave i
UNUSUA
L BUIIDIG 0
u
ER GROWW
MORE BUILDING NOW UNDER CONSTRUCTION THAN EVER BEFORE
AT THIS SEASON. LUM BERMEN OPTIMISTIC.
LABOR KEPT AT HOME.
A review of the building activities
of the cy during the past sixty day
discloses a larger amount of work than
the average citizen would surmise at
this time of the year.
The lumber men of the city are well
pleased with the volume of business
and they are talking very incourag
ingly about the near future. People
are getting away from the old meth-
"!t waitihs: until- sminp- to heein
every month during the year. This has
been a t he, th
of Th dQ Q
ort:h , 5tQ ,
laboring clasjr
not h?.vp to p-n
Sni;th ,n tTia wintlr nT10 rooT,,
his rough lumber. A number of saw
mills are busy now throughout the
ccunty manufacturing lumber. The
reads . are fine forhauling and the
average farmer has time to spare from
his farm just now and can devote
time to his saw .mill. The price - of
lumber, is said to be good.
" J . C. Sherrill, of Brickton, states
this .week that. the;,brick business.7 was
better. than it had been in several years.
Orders "?.re keeping Ms mill-busy day,
eto&r njght The other mills", near
Fletcher are working full tftriey and
over. ' . ; ' '--
Among the new houses just com
pleted in and near Hendersonville
and some that have just been started
are:
B. F. Morrow, remodeling residence
oi Sixth avenue, west.
D. T. McKeithan, a summer home
tn Laurel Park; estimated cost $3,000.
Pink Case, two cottages near depot
section; estimated $1,500.
L. T. Moore, a modern residence on
the Edneyville road.
W. P. Whitmire, modern residence
on Sixth avenue estimated $5000.
B. Jackson, remodeling cottage on
Church street, estimated $2,500.
B. F. Shawley, residence on Hay
wood road; estimated $2,000.
John MaybanksTa barn rear of Flat
Rock home, estimated. $2,000.
Sam T. Johnson, residence on Wash
ington street, estimated $2:000.
A city park on Main street, through
the purchase of the Hawkins property
ocrner Main and Fourth avenue, is said
to be-the purpose of the municipal
authorities.
'A central park has long been one ,f
Hendersonville's urgent needs. The
Hawkins property, stretching from
Main to King street, is admirably
adapted to this purpose.
The price asked by the owners of
the land is not known, but of course
it runs well up into the thousands
Possibly twenty-five thousand dollars
would be required, to give the city its
title. ;
But, as one of Hendersonville's most
conservative business men says: 4
"Main- street property, or any other
property in Hendersonville, will neve?
be any lower than it is right now.
This city is growing. It is growing
: ii ji a i i ? . i , - . . .
HAWKINS BLOCK MY Bt
PURCHASED FOR PUBLIC PARK
PERATIOMS
County court house, improvements,
estimated $400 "
H. M. Flynn new-store, building at
depot $2,000.
1
Will Justice, brick shop near depot
stimated $"000.
J. W. McCarson, improvements on
residence on Flat Rock road; esti
mated $500. v
Geo Malcomson, improvements on
residence,. Oakland street.
J,. A. Smith, residence on Ewart's
Hill, estimated cost $2,000. ,
A. P. Smith improvements on resi
dence in Columbia Park. -
W. P. Maxwell, building a residence
in Edneyville.
Henry Hyder, six room cottage on
Hyder Hill near city limits, estimated
cert $1,500. . .
Mrs. Julia Caldwell, improvements
ou home on Sixth avenue. '
J. B. Gray & Son, knitting mill on
corner of Grove and 4th avenue, 'E.,
estimated cost $8,000.
R. A. McKillop, completing home on
the Bat Cave road.
BAPTIST ASSOCIATION MEETS
THIS WEEK WITH MUD CREEK.
The adjourned meeting of the Car
olina Baptist Association will be held
ili the Mu( Creek Baptist church Fri
day, Saturday, and Sunday .January
7, 8 and 9. . ' r"' ;
A very interesting program has been
arranged for the meetings which will
be, held 10 till 11 a;.:m;tand .12:15 .till
SOittana ;7 tiiisrtt),;, eyerydjjy;
Rev. K. W. Cawthon: chaTrinaii; of th&A,
program committee ahd!:a?'.ixieml3er'ot'-
the executive committee urges that all .
the pastors attend these meetings and
see that at least six delegates are ap
pointed of which three should be '
ladies. Among the speakers for the "
occasion will be Rev. C. B. Waller, of
Asheville, Prof. Wilkie,. of Pleasant
Hill, W. R. Bradshaw. Dr. V. rr Mas
ters, Rev. W. W. Marr, Dr. C. J.
Thompson, Rev. James M. Justice: re
turned missionary to Argentina and
others. "
U. D. C. MEET. ;
The Josephine Lane chapterof the
U D. C. will meet on Saturday after
noon at 3:30 at the Library-
Messrs. Thomas and John G. Lyda
of Edneyville, have entered the Hen
dersonville graded school.
maaun
by no means reached a decisive stage
as yet, but there is every prospect of
their soon doing so. j
It is pointed out that this park would
in a measure correspond tq Asheville's
Pack Square which is certainly one of
Asheville's most valued assets.
With a beautiful central city park.
in addition to Laurel Park. Henderson
ville, which is already THE Resort of
the South, would be in a still more
commanding position to - attract th
tourist business from the lowlands.
PROPOSED SAPPHIBE BOUTE ,
IS UP TO TBA3VSTLVANIA CO.'
New Highway Receiving National Com
ment; Jl Bond Issne Carries Will
be Realized In Near Future,
That the proposed Sapphire route of .
a mountain highway recently .suggest
ed through the-columns of this news
paper by Dr. L. B. -Morsej. receiving
favorable ' newspaper V publicity is
shown from the cUpping belowfrpna
the Philadelphia Public Ledger" sent
j from Atlanta. . .
' The citizens of Tfansylvama. county y
arc- becoming . very rrauchly interested '
in : Unking,: upwitJa ; the Atlanta-Ashe-ville
highway About .ten years ago
when thev'Tflway , company, begai .
improving its property the company ': .
spent over $17.(0Q in instructing-a.
road from Rosman to the hotel site
and .lake whl6h ; was atl absolutely
necessary expense. After, the rail
road was built to .Toxawav the com
pany offered to sell the road for a very
nominal sVira to the county! but' the
offer was refused and today. -ft is said,
that the once famous highway is a
practical abandoned route, witY bouses
even built on the . right of :way.ajid
V (Contihned on Editorial Page.)
s -
A
