THE BARJRE DAILY TIME
T
VOL. XIX NO. 250.
JIAHHK, VERMONT, THUHSDAY, JANUARY 0. 1910.
ritICK, OXK CKXT.
FIGHTING
DESPERATE
-Russian Tressure on Aus
trian Line Continues
Heavy
BOAT TURNED OVER
IN OHIO RIVER
FRENCH POUNDING
GERMAN TRENCHES
Claim to Have Inflicted No
table Damage by the
Bombardments -
The Russian pressure on the Austrian
line from Volhynia southward to uuito
wina continues heavy and official reports
from both sides indicate fighting of
desperate and sanguinary character. Re
ports of the evacuation of Ciernowitz by
the Austrians is not confirmed, Petrograd
unofficial advices to-day only claiming
that the Russians have compelled the
- city's defender to fall back to the sec
ondary line.
The French are pounding heavily on
the German trenches in the Champagne
district and between Soissons and Rheims
and claim to have inflicted notable dam
age by bombardments.
At a conference in London to-day the
British laboring mtn will determine the
attitude of their organizations towards
compulsion.
MINOR BRITISH VICTORY.
Captured German Armed Steamer in
South African Lake.
London. Jan. 6. The German armed
. steamer Kingani surrendered on Decern
t'her 20 to the British naval expedition
on Lake Tanganyika, in central Africa,
it was announced m an official state
ment last night. "
"The action lasted ten minutes," adds
the state. "All the German officers were
killed ami the steamer despite its sink
ing condition was brought into port.
RUSSIA SHORT OF FUEL,
SO BERLIN REPORTS
No More Will Be Given to Sugar Fac
tories Petrograd May Be Without
Flour by Jan. 7.
Berlin, via wireless, Jan. fl. "The Rus
sian committee in charge of the distribu
tion of fuel has decided that no more
material will be given to sugar factories.
Factory owners have announced that
within a short time there will be no more
sugar for sale in Russia," says the Over
seas news agency. "Petrograd authori
ties also announce," says the agency,
"that if special measures are not taken
the city will be without flour at the
time of the Russian Christmas, Jan. 7."
The Kanawha Carried 36 Passengers and
Crew of 45 When Struck Pier and
Then Drifted Down Stream.
I'm kershurat, W. Va., Jan. C The
steamer Kanawha, owned by the Kan
aw ha Tucket company, struck a pier at
da in .No iv about, mite miles south ot
here in the Ohio river lust night and
sank in 30 feet of water. The steamer
carried 30 passengers and a crew of 45
but laptam Brady Berry, who landed
at Meldshl's station near which point
the accident occurred, expressed the
opinion that all had been saved. Since
some of the rescued were taken to the
Ohio side and others landed on this
side of the river, it was impossible to
check up the list of passengers and crew.
According to a telephone message re
ccived here, R, K. Beaver, ono of the res
cued passengers, said that a life boat
containing about 15 persons got away
from tlio packet before she sank and
was rowed to the Ohio side of the river.
He is quoted us saying that when the
Kanawha settled a dozen persons were
standing on the roof in three feet ot
water. Whether any of these succeeded
in reaching the shore has not been as
certained here.
Captain Berry said that after the col
lision, the boat continued down the river
for some distance before it sank. It
then turned over on its side he said, and
floated as far as Lamp's Landing, which
is five miles below the dam. He said
there was much excitement among the
passengers. The crew, after the collis
ion, launched the lifeboats and the res
cue of passengers continued all the way
from the dam to the point where the
boat finally turned over.
lhe Kanawha left rittsburg for
Charleston, W. Va., Tuesday afternoon
with 40 passengers, eight head of horses
and mules and about 45 tons of nnscel
laneous freight: A number of passen
gers landed here.
LINER COMES
WITH TWO GUNS
Italian Ship Giuseppe Verdi
Was Prepared to Repel
Any Submarine
ADULTERY CASES
IN SUPREME COURT
TRAVELED NIGHTS .
WITH LIGHTS OUT
And During the Day Took a
Roundabout Course to
Avoid Hostile Craft
New York, Jan. !.- The Italian liner
Giuseppe Verdi arrived to-day from Gen
oa, Naples 'and Palermo, currying two
four-inch naval guns, mounted in the
stern. The passengers said they un
derstood the Italian government ' was
responsible for the mounting of the guns,
which were intended to repel any subma
rine that might have attacked the
Cases of Wesley North and Lucy Weston
Argued To-day Entries Mads in
Several Cases.
Supremo court this forenoon heard ar
gi'tiiciiU 'n the case of Stat vs Wesley
Nou-, udultery, an apical from Wash
ingtou county court. State's Attorney
Glcason appeared for the state and A
l. ray for the respondent. 1 lie com
panion case, State vs. Lucy Westou will
prolmbly be argued this afternoon
Entries were made in the following
cases which were passed' the opening day
of the term: Windham county, John
11. Manley vs. Peter Johnson, settled and
discontinued; Lyman L. Davidson vs.
Willie A. Boyd, assumpsit, judgment af
firmed! Gibson and Waterman .vs. Town
of Vernon, apt., continued; Manley Bros
vs. Boston and Maine Bat'epad company,
continued; Hester A. Davis vs. Farrar
Ihlnn, continued; George Tndor vs. A,
(Yosby Kennett and Herbert S. Mud-
gett, hearing. Washington county Kin
ily K. Wead vs. Berton A. Hunt, contin
tied. Windsor county Arthur K. Pit
kin vs. John MunKc.ll, W. W. Munsell,
guardian, continued. Addison county
In re Addison and Panton Telephone
and Telegraph company, et al, The
(hamplain alley lei. Cow apt., appeal
from public service commission, contin
ued. Caledonia county Hattie M. Ban
croft, adm., vs. A. H. Cote, and Oscar
C. 'Woodruff, adm., vs. William L. Don-
steamer in the Mediterranean. The aldson and Sarah Donaldson, both con
steamer sailed night with lights out and tinned, having previously 'been set for
during the riav took a roundabout Hearing.
course to avoid hostile undersea craft
Gunners of Koval Italian navy are
in charge of the Verdi's guns, according
to the captain. After the vessel lett
Palermo the captain said dailv practice
with guns was held, burrels being thrown
overboard for targets. He. says he was
WASHINGTON COUNTY TEACHERS
SUES FOR BOY'S DEATH.
Vermont Power & Manufacturing Co. of
St. Albans, the Defendants.
St. Albans, Jan. 6. A suit to recover
damages for the death of his son, Clay -
oji Parmelce, has been brought by A. A.
Parmelee against the Vermont Power &
Manufacturing company. Papers have
been served and attachments made on
real estate belonging to the company
in Fairfax.
A hearing was held before the public
service commission Monday on the or
ders recently made public by the com
mission in connection with the applica
tion of the company to sell its proper-
les and assets to the Public Klcctnc
Lighting company of Massachusetts. M.
II. Alexander, attorney for A. A. Panne-
ee, was present and stated that he
would enter any protest against the
ransfer if it in anyway interfered with
his client's rights to receive damages
against the Vermont Power & Manufac
turing company for the death of Mr,
'arnielee s son.
Arc to Hold a 'Conference at Montpelier
This Month.
The annual conference of the Washing-
instructed to use guns only for defensive ton County Teachers' association will be
purposes. held in the high school building at Mont
pelier Jan. 21 and 22. the meeting to
WANT fiTiNQ msMnnNTFn oih'ii nt 9:30 a. in. indav. Jan. 21. in
....... - . , , . .
thfi school auditorium. The program of
State Department- to Take Matter TJd the confenee is as follows
t i- - r 1 .... i : 1 ....
Lewis C. Carson. Ph. D.. pastor of Church
Washington, Jan. 6. The state de- of the Messiah. Montpelier: music, high
partment probably wm take up with the school chorus. Frederic Kdwards, conduc
Italian government the question of guns tor; address of welcome, Prin. Edward
mounted on the liner Giuseppe erdi, S. Abbott. Montnelien response by presi
with a view of having the pieces dig- dent, Carroll II "White, Barre; address
mounted before the ship leaves American Mason 8. Stone, commissioner of edu-
waters. cation: address. "How the Vermont Free
Library Commission Helps Teachers,
rinTi ti a t r Tir. ms-t I rceneeca .' wriElit. secretary; atiurcaa
liUiNLJ f AILiEjU LJ "The I!ais and AnnlicalTous of Method.'
1fE,'T,rr Tr,nTTTIE,1llE,XTTC3 j)r. Edward. D. Collins, professor of peda
Mtlitil KlUUiKIVll!ui IS) Loj,.. Middfebury college; address
"Teaching Children How to Study," Miss
Montpelier City Council Uives Tenney Marv M. Patrick, teacher-training sp-
Cmnanv Till Tanuarv , t M"lwt artonl business, appointment of
I mm m it n
File A New One. Friday afternoon Infpivtion of exbib
I if a. l0Tiimf Jtrv rhntA f?Viw"tnst rations.
Consideration of the $10,000 bond filed ith nI1sf, ,nd ri.aotius.nn In studv
L ..1 . - . . i i I
oy me icuney company as owner i hall, room 1.1, chairman, Supt. (i. J. Seag-
II 11.. 1 f" J I' T .J.' Ol TI I '
ine xiarre a, .uompciier iraexion a. 40- er jiarre Town "The Quidey Metli.
GOV. M'CALL
INAUGURATED b:
AMBITIOUS TO BE FIRST CLAN.
Barre Branch of Scottish Order Is Second
Only to Qulncy.
hree hundred clansmen, their wlv
weethearts made merry In Cla
Cordon hall Iat evening, the event being
the annual open installation of the 111
oflicera of (Ian (lordon, No. 12, O. S. C
r!vn.Von. Tmffmil Afl I I'm formal exercises took place at
,,v-v4 -mvv o'clock, and it was 0:30 before the ha
. ministration Lnded in
was cleared lor the grand inarch m
circle. Royal l)i puty William McDoiiahl
reireseiited the royal clan and, with his
sssistsuts, installed the ollicers elect
a month ago. .
Here is the list of officers who will
control the destinies of Clan (iordon the
coming vear: Chief. William Hurry
OF CONSTITUTION tanist, Roy McDonald; chaplain, Jame
itaiiace, i-orrchpouuiii Bireit'iary, .-iie.
I.dward; flnancial secretary, ItolxTt Cor
don; treasurer, Donald l.cith; senior
henchman, John McDonald, jr.; junior
henchman, Robert Patterson, lr.; sen
eschal, Saniucl Henderson; warder, Rob
ert Adams; sentinel, James Clubb; pian
int, William Leith; trurtec for three
yeaiw, James Booth; standard bearers
Johii K McDonald, Barry P. Henry
financial committee, James R. EIrick
Barry P. Henry, Donald F. Mcleod ; phy
sicians, Dr. . I). Kcul, Dr. N . E. Avery.
Remarks by the royal deputy were
Massachusetts
URGES REVISION
In His Inaugural Address
He Would Do Away with
Many State Commissions
Boston. Jan. 6. Five rears of Demo
cratic administration in Massachusetts
ended with the inauguration to-day of f encouraging to members of the order,
MONTPELIER
NO WORD FROM VIENNA
; FOREIGN OFFICE
Request for Information of Persia by
Ambassador Penfield Not Gratified
No Further Proofs Vessel
' Was Torpedoed.
Washington, Jan. 6. Ambassador Pen
field cabled to-day he had presented in
formally to the Vienna foreign office the
American government's request for any
information on the destruction of the
British liner Persia and at the time of
filing his dispatch had received no reply.
American Consul Carrels at Alexandria
reports that affidavits he has gathered
from survivors give no more proofs that
a submarine torpedoed Hie liner, or re
garding its nationality than the first dis
patches. So far the only actual statement tend
ing to prove the ship was torpedoed came
from one officer, who said he saw what
jho thought was the wake of a torpedo.
No submarine was seen at any time.
Absence of further definite advices is
holding the situation, bo far as any ac
tion by the t'nited States is concerned,
. at a standstill.
- Chairman Stone of the foreign rela
tions committee discussed the situation
with the president to-day. Tne presi
dent expressed the hope that until the
government had . formulated its policy
there would lx- as little discussion as
possible in the Senate.
Kev. Homer R. Salislwrv of this citv.
the Seventh Day Adventist missionary
superintendent lor India, who saued 011
the J'ersia irom .Marseilles, is given up
for lost in a report which the Peninsular
A Oriental line has transmitted to the
American embassy at London and which
was to-day forwarded to the state de
partment. WILL NOT ACQUIESCE.
Birth Rate for 191 Higher by 36 Than
in 1914.
There were 106 births in the city dur
ing the year just closed, of which 01
ere males and 102 females. The total
number is exceptionally large, exceed
ing 1014 by 30 births and the average
record per year lor the past seven pre
vious years has been only 17'2. The ex
cess of males during the same period of
time is 50.
United States Does Not Agree to Earl
Grey's Plan for Naval Tribunal.
Washington, 1). C Jan. 6. It was au
thoritatively stated laht night that the
United States government would not
agree to the suggestion by Sir Edward
Crey to Cermany that a tribunal of
American naval officer inveMigate bel
ligerent charges and counter e! -arges of
inhumane conduct by naval officers.
AmbaKfador Page at Inndon. through
whom Sir Edards communication was
forwarded fj Terlin. probably will await
an exprein from the .rmn govern
ment ron'-erning its attitude before he
brings the subject to the attention of the
State department here.
Official!" einTerant with the itiistin.
however, say ir..f;rn'.s!!r t!it the United
Hates imd'Hibtcily ill rorit:niie to a.
lere t it t-oliry of non interrt ntinn in
crtrm,T:" of tUs kind Intwceii li!,g
erent nations.
In probate court .yesterday, John E.
Rollins of Barre Town, settled his ac
count as administrator of the estatii of
Matilda R, Rollins, late of Ilarre Town.
The wills of George H. Richmond, late
of Xorthfield and Caroline L." Adams,
late of Northfield have been filed for
probate. Mrs. Anne Kolty of Moretown
has settled her account as administra
trix of the estate of John F. Kelty, late
of Moretown. 1
Fifty-nine years ago to-day, the State
House burned, according to the diries
of some of the older residents.
Stillman Lawrence, a veteran of the
Civil war and a resident of Montpelier
for a long term of years, left yesterday
for Worcester, Mass., where he will make
his home.
A daughter has been born to Mr. and
Mrs. Hyman Lcwinthall of 2 Barney
street.
Word was received this morning from
Ludlow that the condition of Marion
Wilcox, the little daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Julius Wilcox, who ii seriously ill
with the new disease acidosis, which has
been and is still prevalent in Massachu
setts, remains practically unchanged.
Funeral services for Mrs. Irvm U
Sparrow, whose death occurred Sunday
eveninsr at Marv Fletcher hospital, Bur
lington, were 'held at 1 o'clock yester
day afternoon from her late home, ti4
North street. Rev. Lewis C. Carson, pas
tor of the Church of the Messiah, offi
ciating. The bearers were: II. L. Spar
row of Ea't Montpelier, E. J. Sparrow of
Cale is. Irvin L., and Ivan A. Sparrow of
this city. Burial was in Green Mount
cemetery.
Sanford A. Daniels of the industrial
accident hoard and daughter, Miss Ha
zel F. Daniels, arrived in' the city last
evening from Brattlclsiro.
Jackson O. Blodgett. for the past :!0
years a resident of the Wrightsville dis
trict in this city, has diMmi-ed of his
bla ksmith shop and residence to Lynn
Nelson, and plans to leave in the spring
for Springfield or Hdyoke, Mass., t- re
side. Mr. Blodgett, during his residence
m Montpelier. ha conducted a black
smith shop for a number of vears.
Richard II. Cutler, who has been vis
iting his parent in this city for the
past three weeks left last evening for
Baltimore, M.I.. where be is agent for
the National Life Insurance Co.
A hearing was held in probate court
this forenoon at Montpelier on a petition
brought by (Tiarb-s Duprey to reopen
the estate of t'harles W. NWins. late of
Montpt lier. which had been settled, so
that a claim mull l presented bv Mr.
Imprey againt the estate. The j-etition
was dismised. A similar -etittn.
brought by Luis Barney for the same
purpnw. w dropped after ti.e' other
titwm l.a.l lieen dismiswd. F. 4. Mar
sii.ill w attorney J or Mr. JiupreT and
Mr. Barn by and K. I. !-ird fur A. J.
Howe, who was aiii)iii.trtor of the '
l.u estite.
i!ev Mpthod
er company yesterday with the city cleric of Xumlier," Mrs. Annie E. Snyder,
at iiioiiiiejier, m rcniiu.iBc vu m irauiu- ,., or trainintr iiw t. Unrre? "l"ri
tion demanding the same, according to mar Riding, Grade II.," Miss Margar
the specifications of the franchise grant- Lt Dohenv, Wet Reading and Un
ea tiacK in Jhyti, resulted in the city .., f:r.,K rr. and V fr i"brles
council, at a special meeting held last K neeman, Williamstown. In room 10,
evening, oeciumg mat vue oonu xaiieu 10 chairman, Supt. J. Allen Hunter, North
meet the requirement, and another reso- field "Penmanshin. Grade VfT" Prin
lution giving the reasons for the disap- fip(ll Emma Jean Iewis. Montpelier;
proval and extending the tunc to Jan. 12 proWem Method in History, Grade
was aaoptea. VI1L," Miss Mab-I E. Howe, Montpelier;
The council decided that the bond was "Teachine Children How to Studv" (con-
not satisfactory, inasmuch as the com- ference), fiss Patrick. In gymnasium,
pany laueu 10 give reasonuuie biireiy or ohafrman. Rose Lucia, Montpelier "Sim
sureties and because the wording of the pje physical Exercises That Any Teach
bond failed to coincide with the resolu- r r-an r-s' Mrs. William .1. Tindall.
tion pased by the council. ' Montpelier; "Games for Primarr Chil-
' Furthermore, it appeared that the siff- dren": "Folk Dancimr." Miss Florence L.
nature of the president of the company, Shipman, director, Montpelier. In audi-
A, B. Tenney, was not witnessed, and torium "Rural School Demonstration
the document contains no signature of Kn, Conference," Mrs. Margaret O. Fiti-
any witness. Because of the incomplete- i,ugh, teacher training specialist, Mont-
ness of the bond as seen by the council, p,.lier. conferences with question box,
it was voted to allow the company until far primary in room 13, with Miss Jen-
the 12th of the month to file n bond to nie r. Ailinirham of Montnelier seminary
comply with the provisions drawn up ns leader; for intermediate, irr room 10,
by the council. led bv Sunt. Charles R. Beeman of Wil-
The petition circulated the first part linmstown: for nrammar. room 9. led bv
of the week by F. J. Marshall, asking sllpt, Norman Frost of Watcrbury.
the council to take some action to pre- Conference on high jachool work in
vent the scraping of Winooski river, be- romn 6. iPd l,v Prin Henrv II. Jackson
cause of the alleged fact that it caused f narrP) with an addrs bv Dr. Colljns,
the ice to become thicker and results in followed bv a discussion, "in room 1!),
high water during the spring, was laid commercial" teachers' conference, leader,
before the council by Alderman Kent. jra Richardson, Montpelier; "Unfinished
The petition caused considerable diS- Rookkeeners and Stenotrranhers." II. T).
enssion, but the ultimate result was the Hopkins, Montpelier; "The Commercial
tabling of the paper With its 12 Slgna- Dnnartment. in Vermont " I. V. Cobleitrh. :
tures until the next meeting. The peti- Burlington. ' I
tion is signed bv Mills & Co., F. J. Mar- will
shall and ten others, most of whom are reception. and entertainment.
granite manufacturers, whose sheds abut Saturdav forenoon at 0 o'clock the
on' the river. I Montnelier prammar school rhorus will
t. j : 1 . i i n 1. : .i I . '
ji a ueeiueu . n.r: furnish the music. The rest of the pro
mer ana near me. .un.111 mrrct uriugr. m u. A,l,irea 'Unbi an.l rmnrir
i.: -:..l- 11. r . ' .. . j
lor B HKaillii: 1 uov, hi ini cwi U1.-S3 ui th s,.hwilrnnin " Jumna T. "l.rf'n
action taken on the petition skaters may ai1h nrofnr of .Hneatinn ri.rt
not feel worried about a place for thelmolltll rollo7. folk d,.nce. kindergarten
wimer spun,. . . pupils. Miss Edith Blanchard. director:
llie license commuiee was instructed .,blr Tb Prnblnm 0 V,lnir,,,ul
Values," Will S. Monroe,- professor of
psvchologv ,and pedagogy, state normal
school. Montclair, JT. J.; adjournment.
Teachers who desire a room for Friday
night or room and breakfast are re
the successful Republican candidates athn that the condition of the clan is verv
-.. mm- I -
the last election tiovernor .amnei u . good, both as to members and finances,
Met all and Lieutenant Governor lamn 1 yie new chief gave a very good talk
Coolidge. in which he begged for the co-operation
In his Inaugural address, Governor Ale-1 of evcrv clansman during the coming
Call directed particular attention 10 the year. Mr. Hurry is well fitted for the
need of a convention to revise the state office, and with his experience in other
constitution, "No constitutional conven- societies the work of the clan will not
tion, he said, "has been held in Massa-1 suffer. Mr. Hurrv called on several past
chusetts since 18..3, and I behave the 1 ,.),. fn for remarks, and among those
time has come when the constitutional I responding were George Cormack, James
svstem should receive connected ami care-1 S. Milne, James K. Coutts.
fill revision." After saying that the cost William Hurry, chief of the clan, and
of government invthe state has been in-1 Mrs. George Cormack, chief sister of the
creasing far out of proportion to its in-1 ladies auxiliary, led the grand march
rease in population or in wealth, lie I The Montpelier .Military band orchestra
urged that the cost of administration be furnished music for the dancing numbers.
reduced by doing awav with many state I which lasted until midnight. Refresh
commissions. Referring to the railroad I ments of coffee, sandwiches, doughnuts
situation, he said: "The railroads should land cake were served.
bo governed by just laws framed broadly I Clan Gordon still holds second position
in their own and the public interest, las to the largest clan, but hopes U out
The public is entitled to just, reasonable I number Clan McGregor of (J5ney the
and equal rates and efficient service, and I coming year.
the railroads are entitled to charge rates
which, under good management, will en
able them to render proper service and
secure a fair return on their invest
ment."
PROBLEMS OF "CANS."
BOY SCOUTS HONORED.
Were Given Prizes for Proficiency Last
Evening,
Second class badges were presented to
seventeen of the eighteen candidates who
took the examinations for that rank in
boy scout troop No. 2 at the Congrega
tional church laft evening. Byron N.
Clark, secretary of the state V. M. C. A.
and special field scout commissioner, was
to investigate and report nixin the Le
land theatre building application and
the application to move the present
structure up to within four feet or the
street line.
ine street committee w in na ve cnarge ,w..t,l tn T a ,
of repairs which have been authorized to L of thj J)oar(, of .frnd Montpelier,
place the Cummings street bridge in a vt The rat(( wi bp w forl T00m
safe condition for .heavy traffic.
STILL REDUCING DEBT.
and 2.) cents for breakfast,
Dinner and supper will be served at
one of the local churches on Friday at
and 2. cents.
Superintendents are requested to no
tify the superintendent of schools, Mont-
Rutland County Fair Association Had
Good Financial Year.
Rutland, Jan. fi.-The annual meeting J,',i,;r. bX Jan- 14 ? ," "mount nd
of the Rutland County Agricultural so
ciety was held at the Berwick here yes
terday with Frank M. Wilson, president,
presiding. The business transacted in
cluded reading of reorts. election of of
ficers and plans for the 1H18 fair.
The trustees, Mr. Wilson, James C.
Dunn and Miles S. Sawyer of this city
and J. E. Buxton of Middletown Springs,
reported that the profit of the .t fair
was S1.31HI and there was a reduction of
liabilities to the amount of ,JJj4.'1.02.
The protit was divided as follows: Paid
on note. 1.X0; oM account. $1,472;
farns, fl.2."iH; ermsnent improvements,
$ort. The net liabilities a year ago were
t,'.lfl2..!4 and are to-day given as ?$,-CUV!.
kind of space requirid for the exhibit
from each exhibit. Earlier notice would
be appreciated.
Teachers are expected to register w ith
their superintendents before the conven
tion. Tickets will be sent to the super
intendents ?oon. The fee is 2.1 cents,
which includes admission to the entertainment.
$100,000,000 WAR CREDIT
Is Enthusiastically Approred by Bulga
rian Parliament.
Lon.!'n. Jan. 6. A war credit of floo.
iWmn.ian has been entiHisiaMiraily ap
proed by tie BuL-arisn parliament.
ays a d.spaUh to The Timm tn'm N
1 -li si. .All section of t'ie oj pe;tkjB
vwted with the government.
GETS MONTPELIER CALL.
Rev. F. Barnby Leach of Burlington May
Accept Episcopal PulpiC
Burlington, Jan. (..Rev. F. Barnby
Leach, curate a St. Paul's, has received
a unanimous call to t'te rectorship of
Christ church. Montpelier, to succeed
Rev. Homer A. Flint, who has gone to
l'ennylvania. Rev. Mr. Iach said lat
evrnirg that be was con-ddering the call.
Mr. Leach has been curate at St. Paul's
Kince esrlv in the summer, being irratit-
Were Partially Solved at an Interesting
Social at Baptist Church.
C A NT were the three letters upper-
moat in evervone'a thoughts at the "can"
social triven in the Bantist church last present and presented the badges. The
evening by the campfire girls. Mrs. Holt, meeting was the first one held in this
the guardian of the society, acted as the city which has bce open to outsiders
directress of the affair, the eleven girl and this was only open to the parents
members of. the club acting as the enter- or members of the immediate families
tainment committee. lof the scouts.
The program began with a d'nonstra- In addition to the awards of badges, spe-
tion of the candle-lighting eiemonv of cial honors for work done since Septetu-
the campfire girls, by three of the girls, ber were awarded as follows: Medal for
Next came a series of chardes, in which scholarship, donated -by Dr. Barnett and
the girls acted out certain words whose presented, to Howard McKnight; medal
first syllable was can, and requested the I to high standing senior scout, donated
peojde in the audience to guess the words. I by W'innifred Smith and presented to
The representation of a canary in the! John Khepard; medal to high standing
form of a solo by Mrs. Holt was perhaps junior scout, donated by Sir. Hubbard
the most appreciated feature of this part i and presented to Wendall Smith; first
of the program. Later came another laid kit donated by Donald Smith and
word-guessing contest. This time the I presented to the Flying Eagle patrol
charades were read by Mr. Holt, and which stood the highest in the Ayork o
the members of the audience were given the second rank, Cedric Snyder received
a few seconds to write their guesses on the kit just mentioned for the troop, he
slips of paper furnished them for the 1 having passed one of the best first aid
purpose. Miss Ethel Inglia won the first I examinations of any member.,, A boy
prize, a piece of candy, for successfully scout book was presented to the troop
guessing iz of the 1.J words given out; as a' whole by Charles Pamperl.
while the consolation prize, in the form! At 8:30 the meeting was adjourned
of a baking-powder can, was given to I and the scouts in a 'body attended the
Miss Gertrude Coats for guessing the Park theatre, where they saw "The Boy
fewest. Scouts of America, a sppcial picture se
At the close of the program, refresh-loured at this time through the courtesy
ments were served, all the articles on the I of the management..
bill of tare having the same three letters
in their names. Booths arranged around GAVE PICTURES OF BIG INDUSTRY.
tue ituu oiiciiua lor a.e tveryuiinif jromi .
candy to canned goods were presided over Curtis pnblishinK Co..8 Plant Was Re-
the occasion was furnished thromrh the vealed to Barre Men by Moving Pictures.
courtesy of the management of the Red! Granite manufacturers and quarry
Cross Pharmacy, who kindly loaned a ow ners, with a number of invited guests,
grafonola. iwere present in Manufacturers' hall last
eveninsr at an illustrated lecture given
w Ao unman vi.ii.KAH. bv C. S. CTosman ot the llirtis Publish
inir Co. of Philadelphia. Pa. Mr. Cros
Richard Halsall Died Last Night of man, who was for 28 years headmaster
Pleurisy. I of the luverford school for boys in Phil
J. Richard Halsall of 137 North Semi- adelphia, was assisted by C, H. Johnson
ary street, a long-time employe of Ilt,r r'1 1,1 "t-IC """"u
f,.rr r.ordnn tmaaed awav it H,a while the lecturer gave an intimate story
City hospital last night at 11:30 o'clock. of th nliln.v details that enter into tne
the end following an illness of several work of publishing the Saturday Evening
weeks. Death was due to an attack of 1(st. " Country Gentleman and the
pleurisy. Mr. Ilalsull was removed to Ladies' Home Journal. He stated that
the hospital three weeks ago. He is the company uses 105 tons of paper per
survived bv his wife, who was Miss da3' Bml t,,at if 5t were cut ",to st"P8
Iavinia Ke'nvon, and to whom he was as wi,!o M one PaSe of tl,e turdav
married in Montreal, P. Q., Nov. 12, ISM, Evening Post the strips would reach
and six children, Charles, Sadie. Lillian, from Philadelphia to San Irancisco and
Joseph, Mary and Daniel Halsall, all of thence to Seattle, Wash,
this citv. A sister, Polly, and a broth- Murh of Mr- Cramnm s talk was con-
er, William Halsall. reside in Wiggin, 'rn'd witl t,,e fowth of the Curtis
Eng. A second brother, Joseph Halsall, publications. More than ..,0(0 people
is with the British colors in France. re employed in the Philadelphia plant
The deceased was a veteran of the and a11 of the employes have access to a
British army, having served in the Ber- dininff ro""- "'creation rooms, dance
niudas eight vears with the king's 9th halIs anJ auditoriums governed by the
regiment of Liverpool. He was born in company. 1 he pictures brought betore
W iggin, Eng., Aug. 27, 1861. As a young "-
man he enlisted in England and some- P'nt. tne exterior appearance 01 tne
time afterward his regiment was trans- bm'J'ngs ana a numoer 01 advertising
f.-rred tn the British W Tn.Ii.. wWa novelties. Thirty-six lantern slides pos-
' "I 3 . 1 V A J I
for eight vears, or until 1S.4. he served sesseu ami lur.neo o..e
as the regimental butcher. He went to OI uie mo"1 ""'fs1111?? leaiiire 01 ine
DECISION
RESERVED
On Manufacturers' Associa
tion's Request for a Mutu
al Insurance C 'ter
WILL PROF"
P uRANTED
Hearing" v Application for
Charter Before Insurance
Commissioners To-day
Montreal in l'M and soon after his
marriage he came to Barre to reside.
Mr. Halsall was held in high esteem by
by large number of men with whom
he worked at one time or another dur
ing his resilience here. He was a mem
bers of Granite City camp, M. W. of A.,
and belonged .to the lumer' union. He
was an adherent of the Episcopal church.
It is expected that funeral services
lecture.
SPAULDING LOST TO M. S.
will be held at the house Saturday after- B,t
First Game in Basketball League Slow
and Uninteresting.
Montpelier seminary defeated pnuld
ing high in the first game of tlie basket
ball league formed last fall bv the score
of 2ti to IB in armory ball. Montpelier.
noon an.l interment win oe made in
Hope cemetery.
evening. Both teams displayed lack
SUCCEEDS ABSENT BANK MAN.
Lathrop H. Baldwin Appointed Tress
urer of Marble Savings Bank.
Rutland. Jan. B. Lathrop H. Baldwin
who has been aitant treasurer of the
Marble Saving hank in this citv for ; -. I ike. 1
several rears, and who was pre iouly 1 1 -ransi. f
rcurer of the 1'ro. tor Trust eompanv.! listen, c
rest.-nlar was elected trenrer of the st- Mary. g..
of knowledge of the passing game and
aside from Nichols. ;ranai and Hatch
the shooting was far from accurate.
The game was s'ow and not very inter
esting, the seminary taking and holding
the lead throughout without much trouble.
Vermont's insurance commissioners,
Secretary of State Guy W. Bailey of
Essex Junction and State Treasurer W.
F. Scott of Brandon, held a hearing in
manufacturers' hall this forenoon on the
petition of the Granite Manufacturers'
association for a charter under which it
may operate a mutual, co-operative fire
insuring company. IJirectors of the as
sociation were present and as no one
apjieared to challenge the petitioners, the
hearing was a 'short-lived aHair. Secre
tary Bailey called the meeting to order
at 10 o'clock and an hour later the hear
ing was adjourned, the commissioners
taking with them a mass of data gath
ered and arranged by the manufacturers.
Decision on the association s request
for a charter was reserved, although it is
expected that a tangible outcome of the
hearing will be known within a week.
Unofficially there is a feeling that the
barter will be granted forthwith, as
there was no opposition manifested and
the commissioners felt called upon to
make only a few interrogations. Secre
tary Bailey presided at the hearing and
the case for the manufacturers was pre
sented by Alexander Duncan and H. P.
Hinnian, president and secretary, re
spectively, of the association.
The movement for a charter under
hieh a co-operative insurance company
may do business had its inception in the
esire on the part of many manufactur
ers in, Barre to relieve themselves of
what are described as the exorbitant
rates fixed by private fire insurance com
panies. For some time, it is said, manu
facturers in Barre, large'and small, have
hated under rates that were nearly pro-
lbitive. lo-dav it was represented that
ic fire losses in tfie Barre City granite
lt have been at a minimum in the last
10 and 13 years, although the rates have
increased all out of proportion to the
claims adjusted. In short, and the man
ufacturers joined the issue squarely to
dav, the association feels that its mem
bers are paying rates for other towns,
here the hre risk is greater. That the
ssociation is intent on the promotion of
the co-operative eompanv idea is evi
denced by the fact that several manu
facturers, in anticipation of a mutual
company formation, have cancelled some
of their policies carried with private
companies.
None of the large fire insurance com
panies carrying risks in the Barre gran
ite belt were represented at the hearing
to-day, although the proceedings were
open to the public.
Below is given a summary of the data
presented the commissioners by the as
sociation to-day. Fire losses in the gran
ite belt in Barre (Jitv in the veaTs .1010,
1011, 1012, 1913 and 1014 aggregated only
$10,110.50, while the premiums paid
were $80,087.45, the balance in favor of
the insurance companies being $78.07(1.05.
Somewhat different are the proportions ,
between losses and premiums in the fig
ures for Montpelier and other nearby
towns. In Montpelier, for instance, the
premiums paid in the same period were
$2fi..)50.7O, while the losses by fire were
$103,805. For the same period in East
Barre, the fire losses were $8,000 and the
premiums paid were $2,470.01. a balance
in favor of the losses of $.),.r20.00. In '
Northfield in 1010-1011 the losses were
fl.8'25, and the premiums were $12.-
072.07. Watcrbury granite plants suf
fered fire losses aggregating $22,435 in
that period and in that time the policy-
premiums were $;,051.01, a balance in.
favor of the losses of $17,383.00. In
Weft Berlin, there were no losses, but
the sum of $2,160 was paid in as premiums.
Williamstown plants were visited bv
fires that entailed aggregate losses of
$30,000 in 1010-1014, but the premiums
were onlv $.i.705.HO.
Subjoined to the foregoing data was
the following data: "It is estimated that
the premiums paid on stoneshed property
in Barre City for the years 1000-liiiin,
inclusive, amount to about .SS.027.47,
thereby making a total of premium for
the years 10OO-1014, inclusive, of 178.-
014.02. The total losses during the pe
riod weYe $18,207, thus leaving net re
ceipts to the insurance companies -of
bout $150,807.02.
"Corresponding figures for the rest of
he central Vermont granite district are
."iO.030.52 for the l!i00-10(tn premiums.
making total premiums for 1000 111 4 of
aliout $102,104.01. The total lo-ws were
about $251,440, leaving a net loss to the
insurance companies of about $140,281.00.
"For the whole Barre district the
above figures show a net g.iin to the in
surance companies of about $10. 525.0.!
for the 15-yenr period from IOiKt-1014 "
13 CASES SET FOR HEARING
The fumniary:
Seminary.
Snauirrg.
f. Mann, More
. . .(, lefirnore
c. Nil -bids
. g. Pog.'TS
p. t . de
ed a year's lcae from the rectorship i Marble institution f.j fill a vs-sn y ! Keily. g
of St. Thomas" rhun h in Brandon be- caused by the disappearance from thiij v,-.e Mitr!ier senonsry 2. fvxn.l I
cause of tHe scri ms illness of Mrs-lcitv Nov. 2i. 'f Treasurer John J. Mur- ing hi-S .!! from f..r 1'ike 4.
Israeli, who (an to Itiirbngtnn t under- ! i.iiv, wii is now undergoing treatment rsni 5. Hat-h 3. Mur ti I. I. r.n -e 2.
g treatment at tLe Mry U. t Ler bos- (or a crvou dirj.-r at a New t.r- Vi '! 4. l!cree K nc:'. k. Ti
j.UL leans borp:tL lo ain.iii-t jrioif.
Judge Waterman Decides for Defendant
. in Sherman-Perrin Case.
Judge E. L. Waterman in county court
to-dav, handed down a decision in the
case of Orville Sherman, apt., vs. Cath
erine l'errin. general assumpsit, judg
ment being f'r the defendant to recov
er b.T cost4. R. A. lb.ar was ciunc
f. r the plaintiff and E. R. lhti for t: e
defendant-
A d:on-e rasp. Ethel St. John -.
Ijconard St. .l-ihn. l-t! of fUrre. was
i 1 card during t'ie f.ree,,n ..am.
j This afternoon t! ess, of W rig'.t
MamifS'-turing compstiy n. Fasten
I ml and N .it Orcharl rnn.jviay
taken up.
lie tuiew of lie d. i,ct Vi-I it.T
r-u;ie! in 11 r l- 'r
'ing at t;.: t.ie ait s e. :.t. -t. l ui
Vtr.xs iie reily f.-r UlaL
