66th YEAR
VOI.UMK 00
\I'MIIKII BO
RICHMOND, VA., SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1916. -FIFTY-EIGHT PAGES. ?UNSETTLED
ALL SORTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE
See limes-Dispatch Want Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Value
PRICK. 1'IVE CENT
APPAM IS SEIZED
ON BRITISH LIBEL
Admiralty Proceeding Brought
Under Prize Laws to Re
gain Possession.
TWO U. S. GUARDS IN CHARGE
Lieutenant Berg, German Officer
in Command, Protests, but
Without Avail.
WASHINGTON. r>. C.. February 19 ?
A libel suit Instituted to-day by Hrlt
Ish owners of the liner Appam to re
cover the ship from the '!<>rnmn prize
cr'w that brought It Into Hampton
Jloads Is expected by State Depart
ment officials to result 1 n a prize court
ruling that will clear away many per
plexlng feature* which have confronted
them In dealing with the ca?e.
With flermany asking that, as a
prize, the Appam he allowed to remain
Indefinitely In Amerban waters under
the Prussian treaty of l^i*. and Great
Hrltaln Insisting that the liner l>e re
Btorerl to her owners uruler The Hague
convention of 1907, department officials
would \veleorn?- a Judgment by a com
petent tribunal, not only for guidance
In the present case, hut 03 a precedent
for the future.
The department, in the alisen< e of
such a precedent, has held tentatively
that the Appam is a German prize, but
never has passed formally upon Ger
many's request, that the vessel be al
lowed to remain indefinitely In Ameri
can waters. A reply is In course of
preparation, and indications have been
that it would he granted. It was said
to-day, however, that the response
might wait until the prize court acts.
STATt'S OF VKSSK1,
\OT OFFICIALLY FITKII
It was suggest i'd that under the
treaty of 1*"S German prizes In Ameri
can ports are exempt from such legal
processes as that pcrvd on the Appam
to-day, but in reply officials pointed
out that the State Department has
not vet ofllcially fixed the status of the
vessel. There is no disposition to ques
tion the Jurisdiction of the court In
any case involving the construction of
a treaty, though the State Department
takes the ground thn.t !'. Is sMll at
liberty to deril diplomatically with the
'?arc In i's own way while the court
proceedings ar? going on s
On their face, the llhel papers Indl
>cafe that the s?jI? ?o far Is purely a
private one, and that neither the P.rit
ish government not the State Depart
ment, at lea*>t at this stage, lias any
direct Interest in It. The attorneys
prosc<Mitlng the suit, h'V-'-'ever. are ex
pected to develop fully the position of
the. Hrltlsli government in regard to
the right of the American government
to allow It; ports t<> be made places of
refuge for prizes.
Some exceedingly intricate points of
international law are expected to be
developed by the British attorneys.
For Instance, in support <>f the demand
for release of the Appam, it may bo
claimed that even admitting the vitality
of the Prussian treaty, because the
Appam was not actually brought into
Hampton Hoads by a Gorman warship
an a prize, its pro\ isioi do no; apply
to her.
.itTifJi: wadimi.i. i-sn>
I'M \ L 1.IIIF.L I'llHCKSS
N'OnrOLK. VA.. February 10.?Fed
eral Judge Waddill issued the usual
libel process to-day. and the Appam
was seized by a deputy United States
marshal, who went to Newport News
on a tug for the purpose. Two guards
from the office of tho 1'nited States
District Court were left in charge of
the Appam.
The libellant is r? presented by
Hughes A: Vanficvi-nior, of Norfolk,
and Frederick It. Ooudert and Halph
James M. Hullowa, of New York.
Deputy West, accompanied only by
Attorney Bullowa. of counsel for the
company; A. Dailey, of the ofHcc
of Castner. Curran & Iiullitt. accents
for the owners, and two watchmen,
left Norfolk this morning on the tug
Mascot about !? o'clock. The party
reached the side of the Appam about
11:30 o'clock. The l;id<.er was tip.
Deputy West went out on deck, while
the rest of the party remained in '.lio
pilot-house, and directed that the lad
der bo lowered, as he wished to come
aboard. He did not state his business.
Tho ladder was lowered, according toj
- his wishes, and the entire party went
aboard the vessel.
Deputy West then stated his mission,
and directed to be taken to the cap.
tain. When the United States officer
was conducted to lieutenant nerp's
quarters tho latter at once objected
ro tho proceedings. "Had I known you
wero the United Slates marshal,'' he
said, "I would not have allowed you |
abonrd." Deputy West paid no atton-j
tlon to lieutenant Herd's objections
and proceeded about the usual process)
of serving a libel. lieutenant Rerg
objected at every step. Tho personal
process was served, and the deputy
then started to tack the usual notice
on the mnst of the vessel. The Oct- ;
man commander objected strenuously.
"Tho ship is in charyo of Collector
Hamilton." he said, "and you have no
right here." lieutenant Berg then left!
the Appnm hu>"rledly and went to New
port News to telephone.
TWO WATf.lIMEX I.RFT
IX ClfAIlftE OK VESSElJ
Whether he telephoned to Collector
Hamilton or tho German embassy, or
to whom, is not known. Rut when he
returned to the Appam, shortly after.
Deputy West had tacked the notico on
the mast of the ship. lieutenant Llorg;
then directed his men to tear do-.vnj
the slip of white pflpor. which told!
that the Appnm had been seized by I
order of the United States District;
Court nt Norfolk. "Don't you touch'
that notice," said the United States <
niniThal. and the notice remained on!
\ (Continued on Fifth Page.)
TICROUOH HLKErKIl TO NEW OKI,EANS
teoount Morfll Or*?. leaving Richmond 11:15
V. 1L. F^bnULTT ?. via. SOUTHERN UAIL.
WA* $28.75 round tslp. rfcon* Mad. SO,
Pro-German Letters in
Tobacco From Richmond
ItOTTI-HtDA.M, I-'ebrunry Hi
I<oiiiIoii). ?Thr unhampered rutry
into Holland of American laliari'O.
Trhlolt In virtually thr only article
heretofore linln torferr?l with under
the I>uteh Ovrmruii Trunt condition*.
I* likely to he Jeopardised Iit n iIIh
eovery Juat imide hj the uuthorltlcn
III n eonHlKiiment of lenf tobacco
from Illehmoml, Vn., of the prenrnce
of n quantity of pro-tieriiiiin prop
npumlu and literature and Nenled
''"em aildrcxMcil to pcmonN In (ier
m any.
I Thlw la the flrnt dNrovery of prop- \
ajcandu anil literature in hale? of
i Amertean tobacco. unci. although
there I* a ponNllilllty thnt It iiun
lieen prncditd for aome time, the
MhlpmentA have not been excluded.
The remit of the dlacovcry Jimt i
mn?le In thnt the entire runnl^mnent
In IiMiir nciit to n prlr.e court In
lOn^liuiil, anil hoth the coimlt;nor
nnd connlicnee. the latter a Hotter,
?lain firm, have been plnceil on the
hliick lint.
iNDT TO LOWER EXEWIPTIDN!
! LIMIT IN INCOME TAX LAW
j
Proposal Certain to He Abandoned
When IIou.se Committee
I'rames Bill.
KITCIII.V IS AGAINST CHAXGK
Virtually i;afire Preparedness Heve
I nue Burden Probably Will He -Mot
by Increasing Hate 011 Those .\J
j ready Tavctl.
W'ASHIXotON, Kebruxiry 1!? The
; proposal to amend the fncome tax law
j *0 as to include smaller incomes is
\lrtuallv certain to be abandoned In
favor of an Increased rat" on those j
already taxed. it was declared to-ni*ht
by Democratic Elousf leaders.
ntlment a pa it st lowering the ex- 1
emption !is!iit in order to provide ad-'
dlt,o?.a| ri vetn;e for the preparedness'
prop ram crystallized. it wan said, in the '
Democratic raums on Thursdav night. '
when Democratic Lender Kltchiu do- .
jelared against changing the present'
j ininitnum of J.1.O00. Sine* th*n pro- I
j J^-ints against a!} reduction plans !
have bccotne more outspoken daily. .
leaders de< dared to-night that vir
! tually the entire preparedness revenue
j burden would be run with income i
t.ixev Tentative bills looking to l.iis
Ir.cr V.ftf>.0'"'0.000 solely by an Increased!
income tax rate are being discussed, j
nnd will be offnred 50011 in committee. ?
wii.i, srtaiKST DontM.vc ''
I'KKSKXT I r-KH CE\r It ATK !
One of the Democratic |fa,]er., who
will be active in framing the admin- 1
istratlon bill said to-night he would
s'JBKi'st doublli c the present 1 per rent
rate on Incomes below* 520,00ft; and pos
sibly make the tax on incomes above
that amount as hi;rh as S per cen'. He
nl.so might suirgest lowerinp the rr.inl- i
mum Income subject to the l per cent
? rate to 515,00ft, be said. Married men, ;
according to this plan, would be given'
the advantage of an additional 51,000 :
exemption, as In the present law.
Although neither the Naval n?r Mill- 1
fary Affairs Committees have indicated I
what amount of money will be needed '
to meet the expenses of preparedness.!
i? generally is understood that for '
;be ?lrst year it will be close to *33,00ft,
000. The tentative plana, it was said,
'will proceed, therefore, on the theory
that about J100,000,000 will be needed.
Th?* treneral impression is that artlvo
consideration of an income tn\ bill will
nnt beirin in the Ways and Means Corn
I mittee before some time next month.
It is hr,ped a bill will be reported a
few weeks later. No hearings will be
held on the raising of preparedness
j revenue, however, until after the. mili
tary committee reports to the Wavs
and Means r-ommlttee on the amount
of money it will tiee.l.
TO REPAIR NAVAL VESSELS
Kiiirrm-ucy Appropriation of .VJ,7."7,tlOO
\ftkeil of Conicrrsii l?y Srcrr
tfiry nimlflK.
WASHINGTON', |\ C.. February 1 !i?
1 A t'2.~n.0(>n emergency appropriation
! for repairs tr> machinery In battleships,
i torpedo destroyers an<l submarines, to
; add to the supply of mines and for the
[ first time to equip battleships with
I antiaircraft guns. was asked of Con
! gress to-day by Secretary Daniels,
j "Many of nur destroyers have
| reached an ape where renewals of ex
tensive portions of 'heir machinery
equipment is necessary," Secretary
Daniels said. "The same is true of
j submarines, both classes of vessels
I making a big drain on this year's ap
l propriat Ion."
The boilers of the battleships Georgia
I and Virginia, both of which have been
j in almost constant service for (en years,
j have shown such weakness. Mr. Daniels
said, as to require that these vessels'
[ be withdrawn from active service to
j have their hollers replaced.
The estimates were referred to the
Appropriations Committee for inclusion
in the urgent deficiency bill.
KING'S COURSE APPROVED
Crrfk llrpulit'N Compliment (onntJin
tlne for Snvlfif; Country I'roni
Horror* of War.
ATHENS, February IS (via I'aris.
February 19).?The oltlcials of the
Chamber of Deputies during an audi
ence with King Constantlne this morn
ing complimented the King on the fact
that, acting under powers conferred on
him by ihe Constitution, he lfad saved
the country at a most critical Juncture
from the horrors of war which had
overtaken other small states. They
expressed the hope that he would con
tinue to work for the preservation of
tho resources of the nation, so that
they might be used for its best in
terests, anil thus fulfill the wishes of
ail those whom the Greek Parliament
represents. The IClng: returned his
thank* tor tbo -laudatory espranslona,
SPY REARRESTED
Ignatius T. T. Lincoln, Former
Member of British Parliament,
Again in Custody.
LOCKED IN BROOKLYN JAIL
Would Not Have Run Away, Hej
Says, if U. S. Government Had ?
Treated Him Fairly.
N'KVV YOltJC, February 10.??Ignatius'
T. T. Lincoln, former member of the j
British Parliament, anil self-confessed j
German spy, who escapfd oji January j
l.*> from the custody of a United States !
deputy marshal after It I k arrest In-re on j
August 4. 1 11?, at the instigation of,
the British government. was rearrested !
at 7 o'clock to-night in front of a :
Broadway restaurant. He was taken!
to the ollices of the Department of i
Justlc?\ where lie was questioned I.e. !
hind '-loved doors for more than two ;
hours. Later lie was removed to Hay- !
tnond Street Jail, In Brooklyn, where '
lie hail formerly been a prisoner.
Lincoln declared his capture was due ;
to the fart that the proprietor of a j
lodging-house, where he had engaged |
quarters, detected his identity and at- |
tempted to extort 52.00 from him in re- !
turn for the surrender of his baggage. 1
He declined to make a statement to j
newspaper men. but asserted to the of- i
fleers who questioned him that lie never !
would have "run away if the United :
States government, which was aware I
of attempts of the British government :
to persecute him, had treated him !
fairly." i
i.ivroi.vs stati-:mi:.\ts not
officially <? i vi:\ ?>i;t j
In the absence of Captain William M. j
Off lev, chief of the local bureau of In- !
vestigntlon of the Department of Jus- j
tice, what Lincoln said to the authori- |
ties here after his arrest was not of- '
flrially made public. Beyond the an- j
nouncement that he had been taken in t
custody l?y Special Agents John J.
Grgurevich and Niel H. Chalmers, no
information was forthcoming regard
ing his arrest. The government agent
who arrested Lincoln is attached to
the Baltimore office of the Secret Ser
vice, and has been working on the
case since Lincoln escaped.
When he saw the fugitive on tho
street to-niirht. the detective dccided
to take no chances. He pressed a re
volver against l.inooln's body and ad
vised him to submit to arrest quietly.
"You needn't do that." said Lincoln,
smilingly. "I'll go along with you j
quietly enough."
After his escape. Lincoln told his'i
questioners he went to South Amhoy, {
N. J., where he diseuised himself ns|
a farmer, and went ahotit wit!) no'
fear of his identity heinc learned. Hej
made frequent trips to New York, and
rented a room in the vicinity of the
spot where he was arrested.
icsrAiMon wiiir.K ni\i\<;
WITH DKI'I TV MAItMlAI, j
T.incoln. who is an Austrian, escaped:
from the custody of United States'
D?\puty Marshal Francis J. Johnson;
while the two were dining toeether!
in a restaurant in Brooklyn. He had j
been a prisoner in Raymond Street jail:
awaiting a decision of the United States i
? 'irruit Court of Appeals on the appli-l
cation of the British government fori
his extradition to Krigland to answer
a charge that he forged two hills of!
ox' banc, one for ?20rt and one for ?500.1
his alleged victim in the latter case'
being a man who had been his bene- I
fact or.
After his escape he persisted in wrlt
inir letters to local newspapers, defying
the government to capture him. He;
asserted that he would not surrender!
unless given assurances that ho would |
be treated as a political prisoner, and!
not as an alleged criminal.
Wit,I, SOON UK TI'HNKO OVKIt
TO IIHITIKH A<;K.NTS '
WASHINGTON. February 10.?De
j partment of Justice officials s:iiil to
night that Ignatius T. T. Lincoln prob
ably would be turned over as soon as
possible to British agents for retno/al
j to Kngland to face charges pending
I against him there No charges are
j pending acainsi him in this country,
hut ollicials have not concealed their
[ concern that lie lie recaptured and re
moved from the country.
When first arrested Lincoln indicated
| that he had Information of value In
! connection w ith passport-fraud cases,
but n careful examination failed to re
sult in any important revelations.
! Ills escape a month a?o resulted in1
the removal from oMice of Deputy Mar
shal F. .1. Johnson, who had him in|
charge. |
BILLY SUNDAY GETS $25,000
I'll is I* \ mount of Free-Will Offering
at r.nd of F?r<y-'rnro-I)ny t'nrn
lini^ii in Trenton.
TitKNTON. N. J., February If?.?When
at !? o'clock to-morrow night "Billy"
Sunday leaves Trenton for a brie.f visit
to his home in Winona Lake, Inil., ho
will have brought to a close a forty
two-clay evangelistic campaign in this
city. Ho will have preached in the!
tabernacle hero to more than 800,000 j
persons, induced nearly ir.,300 persons
either to accept Christianity or to re
consecrate themselves to a more activ
religious endeavor and have raised i
more than $33,000 for tho expense of'
the revival and charity. Furthermore,
he will take with him in the neigh
borhood of $2&.ooo as a free-will offer
ing of the public.
After less than a week's vacation,
the evangelist will go to Baltimore
next Saturday to begin a so von-weeks'
campaign there. Boston. Buffalo, De
troit and Hcveial other cities will then
claim his attention, and he will bo
busy right tip to January of next year,
when he will go to New York.
TKAVKL BY BOAT TO BALTldoBK.
Fares: 12.60. first class; $3.00, necond class.
"Softs. IUvm IJm, Otrico 907 Boat &lata St,
VOTE TUESDAY ON
PROHIBITION BILL
I Senate Devotes Day to Consider
ation of Remaining Sections,
Meeting No Opposition.
RICHMOND BILL IS APPROVED
f House Passes Act Providing for
Charter Commission, Which
Goes Now to Governor.
?'ontrasted with the strenuous session
j of the day before. when the Senate pro
nounced its final Judgment the coni
mlsslonershlp feature of the Mapp hill
ami the House put the wonian-sufTrago
amendment to sleep for two more years,
the General Assembly yesterday pur
sued a quiet nnd uneventful day. The
peace of the Saturday half-holiday hung
over the legislative chambers, and to
wards the end of the session the two
houses worked with little mot?* than
bate >|uorums.
The Senate pursued Its consideration
of th?> Mapp bill, encountering little tn
the way of serious object ion. The
reading of the bill was completed early
In the day. From now on the Senate
will consider amendments offered from
the floor, and will, after passing upon
the.se, reread tho bill from the becln
nlne. approving the sections seriatim.
I'INAI. VOTE O.V MAPI*
1111,1.. SKT FOIt ti:f.si?av
Senator Koyall offered a resolution
providing that n final vote on the bill
as a whole shall not be taken before
the noon hour on Tuesday. The reso
lution was carried. It is believed that
all preliminaries will be disposed of
by that time, and that the measure
will come tip on Its final passage at or
about the hour on Tuesday named in
the Itoynll resolution.
The House turned its attention to
the calendar nnd passed a number-of
bills?chief among them the Norris
bill, which fix"s the open seasons for
the various kinds of game In Virginia.
The measure encountered much opposi
tion from localities whose representa
tives wore disposed at first to with
draw their counties from the applica
tion of the bill. The patron went over
tho provisions in detail, and tho bill
was finally passed and sent to the Sen
ate for concurrence.
Delegate Norris explained that the
bill merely corrected ambiguities ex
isting In th*j present aots fixing the
hunting periods, and that it supple
mented the game bill, which contained
no provisions relating, to open and
closed sea-sons.
mcmxoNo chahtkh iiii,i.
IS SK.VT TO (lOVF.RVOn
Senate bill No. ICS, better known as
the Richmond charter-commission hill,
on the calendar on its third reading,
was passed by a unanimous vote, and
goes now to the Governor for his signa
ture. It is purely local In its effect,
applying only to cities having a popu
lation of 1)0.000 or more.
Governor Stuart returned to the
House the Hopewell bill, carrying an
appropriation of J50.O00 for the sup
port of the provisional government at
the powder city, Tith the recommenda
tion that the appropriation be cut down
to $23,000, in view of the fact that the
r>u Pont Company has offered to lend
the community $2;",,000 towards this end.
The bill was amended to meet tho
Governor's reconunendatlon.
n.v a substantial majority, the House
killed ifous'1 bill N*o. 1S1, introduced by
Delegate Deedy by request, which
amended the law regulating the prac
tice of pharmacy so as to bar any!
applicant for a pharmacist's license!
who did not have to his credit a certitl-i
cate from an accredited school of
pharmacy. The bill was opposed by
Delegate Birrcll and others, who
pointed out that some of the most I
efficient pharmacists of tho State hnvej
graduated from drug stores, and have!
never been to a college of any kind.
WATRH-8I'I'PI.V IIII.I. IS
hi:i,i> i f kor ixuriitvj
House bill N'o. 1X2. on its second read
j inp, which enlarges the powers of the
State Hoaril of Health in the matter of
! controlling wuter i?i>li???. was held up
at the instance of Delegate Myers, of,
I Richmond, and Delegate Davis, ?>f Xor-i
j folic, who wanted time to have the|
j measure examined l>>* the authorities
j of the respective cities, with the view]
| of ascertaining if the hill in any way
i interfered with the water-supply privl-i
| lcnes now enjoyed by these cities.
The !>iU. accordion to Delegate]
| Rew, one of the patrons, puts the water
I supply of communities under the con -
! trol of the State Health Department, its
authority beginning at tin- point where
(the water enters the intake. .Mr. Ucwl
| consented t<> having the measure'
: passod by, after a vain effort to secure]
I its advancement to the third readinir. !
I Chairman linker, of the Finance Com-;
inlttee, introduced a Joint resolution'
empowering the Governor and the At-!
torney-General to exchange that por
tion of Capitol Square which tho city
of Richmond desires for a widening of
Rank Street for a like number of yqunre
feet of space in the Ford Hotel lot. to
bo used as a site for the proposed new
State ollice building. The resolution J
was referred to the Committee on l'ub
[ 11c Property. A resolution is now
j pending In rho Senate which proposes
ai deed the strip in question to the
Ity.
('mien is.si:io i.h
I X.I KCTKI) IVTO DKIl.VriC
Adverse criticism of the Anti-Saloon
I.eaguo in prohibiting, throtigh the
| Mapp bill, the manufacture and sale
of cider when that beverage is ex
pressly exempted by the provisions of
the enabling aet, was precipitated yes
terday with the offering by Senator
Karly, of Greene, of an amendment to
section 8 of the measure exempting
elder front the operation of the law.
Ineffectual efforts had already been
made by Senator Andrew** to have the
life of the breweries prolonged for a
period of sixty days. Disclaiming any
Intention to Join hands with the dia
,(Con tlnuod an fJlxtJ* J?ageO
M'ADOO FORMALLY
? ANNOUNCES CHOICE
Present Richmond Post-Office
Building to Be Extended
on Blair Property.
ENDS LONG CONTROVERSY
! Orders Immediate Changes to
I Improve Conditions Under
Which Men Work.
|
I Specia 1 to The Times-Dispatch. 1
\VASIM.\v;Tr?N". February lf?.?So.
! tarv of the Treasury McAdoo to-day
formally nnnouncoil his decision in the
' Richmond post-ofliee site controversy,
j selecting the Rlalr property for the
| enlargement of the present Federal
Ruihling in oril^r to relieve the con*
| Rested postal conditions at Richmond.
Secretary McAdoo's decision was
i made iii accordance with the Montaigne
; hill, which passed Congress last year.
. Thin hill provided an appropriation of
1 $450,001, with which the secretary was
| directed "In his discretion to acquire
hy purchase, condemnation or other
wise the remainder of the block
hounded l>y Main. Tenth. Eleventh and
[ flank Streets." for the purpose of civ
ing Richmond additional post-office '
I facilities.
STATHMK.VT M\[IK IM1II.W
l?V TMKASfHV IIKI'AHT>IK\T J
In announcing Mr. McAdoo's tong
expeoled decision. tho Treasury De
partment to-day made public the fol
lowing statement:
"Secretary McAdoo decided to-day io
' arquite the Eleventh Street end of the
I I lorlc on which the present Federal
I i-'ovcrnmeiit building stands in ltich
| mond. Va., with the view to the ??n
I 1 arcement of the present post-oand
; Federal Building in that city. The;
properly will he taken by condemna- j
i tlon. It l? understood that the city
j authorities will Riant to the govern -
j moiit the right to use fifteen feet on
| the west side of Eleventh, adjacent to !
! the property, for the purpose of giving I
adequate access to the enlarged Fed- !
I eral Building.
j "Secretary McAdoo went in person
j to Richmond, held a public hearing, and
I made a thorough Investigation of the
present building and all suggested :
sites, ami carefully reviewed the whole 1
situation, lie pointed out that the!
supervising architect of the government i
had estimated thai the enlargement!
of the present building would provide, j
adequate facilities for the needs of j
the government until l?:u. Ponding |
the construction of the extension, tho I
existing buildings can he altered and
used for post-ofllce and other govern
mental purposes.
1 directs im pa ovum i'.xts
ix 1'rksp.xt m ii.mxt; :
"Secretary McAdoo said that the hear- j
ings in Richmond hail shown that the I
conditions under which men work in ;
the basement of the present building
needed to he remedied. lie has di
rected that a system of forced ventila
| tion be immediately installed in the
| basement, so as to correct the present
unfavorable conditions under which
men work. The secretary has also
ordered that nine of the solid doors in
the present building be taken out and
windows substituted, so as to provide
i more natural light on the Main Street
floor. The offices now occupied by the 1
postmaster and the assistant post-i
'master will be moved to the second
tloor of the building, and the present
post-office quarters will be enlarged
and the lighting conditions generally
will ho Improved.
?The necessity for immediate action
at Richmond the secretary considered
most important, and, in view of tho
fact that the present legislation does
not permit the selection of any other j
sites, and as attempts to change the!
legislation might result in prolonged '
delays, he f?? 11 that the best interests
of Richmond would be subserved l>y
tho selection of the .site adjoining the
present building."
iikiiim: iii.a lit
VAlil'KS S I'l'K AT
"The present provernnient appropria
tion of JtiiO.OOO will not buy tip- prop-'
ertv unb s.< it i.s acquired by roiiili'in
nation at loss than fair-miniled men
will allow us," saiil A. Ilei rue lilair,
prcsiden t of the Virginian P>uildiiig
Corporation, last night.
.Mr. Itlair admitted that the owners
iuiil within recent months uiven an
option to the Chamber of Gomnifirce!
for Ml0,000. htit stated that the option
hail expired, and that the property was
valued by tho present owners at $.*,0;".,-]
O00.
"I am a member of the Chamber of
Commerce," said Mr. Itlair. "ami 1 ami j
my associates tlo not wish to lie |>ut|
in the position of opposing any step'
that is for the good of the city. It'
may !??? that we ran net together on;
some price that will give ns a fair re-!
turn on our outlay, one thing is cer-1
tain: we expect to build-?ami if the
government takes our site for postal j
purposes, we will erect our building j
elsewhere.
NKW COMI'OH AT I ON TO
TAKI-: OVKIt I'HOI'KKTY j
"We have within tho past ten days
formed a new corporation to take over'
the property, and have bought from!
Mr. Carneal the Hank Street end of I
the block for $145,000 cash. This deed I
will go on record on Monday. It was
a cash transaction?not for stock in the
new company?arid Mr. Carneal is now
out. of the matter entirely. We value
our former holdings on the Main Str-?etj
oml of tho block at $:$?>?,000, making!
the property stand us $"105,000, and we j
think we can show condemnation com
missioners that this is a fair valua
tion, There Is no chance of the $450,000
offer being accepted, but we may lie
(Continued on Fourteenth Page,)
NKW MKKVICK.
The CheHiitieak' mil ' Olio tins <i;iene<l i
restitin tilt oil ste;imer Virginia ?<i>erat1ni?
betveen Newport Ntws, Norfolk anil Porte
month for th-? afi,omniol?(lon of pamonjcnrj
<iBl?tr trains Mwren Kl.-hinonJ, Norfolk unJ
PerlBOiouUl. Metis m la o&rto.
SKX A Tlllt .1. HaMII.TOV I.r.WIS.
LEWIS MAKES VITRIOLIC '
ATTACK ON EUHU HOOT j
Protests .Against "Hypocrisy of
Statesmanship" Displayed in He
cent New York Speech.
RKSKNTS S.\I'KHS AT PRESIRKXT
Republican Party, lie Declares, Now
Seeking to Make "War With CJer
niany" Dominant Issue for Coining
Political Campaign.
i Special to The Times-Dispatch. 1
WAKll IN"< ITnN, February I !>.?Sena
tor ,f. Hamilton Lewis. of Illinois, in
the Senate to-day. delivered a vitriolic
attack on Klilm Root, in reply to the
speech recently delivered by the former
Senator to the Republican State Con
vention of New York.
reviewed international conditions
of this country with respect to Ger
many and Mexico. He declared that,
after losing every other issue, the Re
publican party, under the leadership
of .Mr. Koot, wan seeking to make "war
with Germany" a dominant issue for
the cotninR- political campaign.
"The speech had for its purpose the
awakening of tlx* American people to
a spirit of resentment against the
Democratic administration." said Sena
tor Lewis.
"Its deliberate object was to hold
the President of the United States up
as an individual unworthy of the re
spect of bin country ami lacking; the
confidence of the nation."
Taking up the phase of Mr. Root's
speech relating to Germany, Senator
Lewis said:
"Mr. Root says it is necessary we
should have a President who has some
thing more than words, who would fol
low words by actions.
"Yet, what action? Ther.. can be
but one other kind of action, and that
is war.
i.ivr i'\riT\ nrcri.aiik
its ruipor, to wah
"if the able Senator expected to
pledge his party to war as an issue In
this country, let it declare it with
courage, and the Democracy will mako
tile issue.
"11" the action referred to men is that
tho grievance against the democracy
is that it has not marched its people
across tho sea into Germany to be
killed, if that be not the purpose of
the word 'action.' what other action,
then, could he refer to.'
?'Thin hyporrisv of statesmanship I
protest against, :is ait American who j
will l>e called upon to tender sill I
have in the fateful hour of conflict. !
"If the object is to fleet a President
under the covert ohjeet of war. artel
to hide the truth from the American
people tinder doubtful phraseolog?, T
wish to expose the fact.
"If. on the other hand, the purpose
is that war shall he declared against
? iermanv. and that the Issue shall ho
war without regard to its merits or to
the justice of the declaration, they
should come forth and declare It. and
the country shall judge them by their
ut (era m en.
i)i:( i,ivi:s to roi,i:itATr.
IIVIMHIIIS^ or STATKSM A.N SHIP
"For myself. I will not tolerate in
silence hypocrisy of statesmanship j
coming from any source, however high.
"The i x-Scnator indicts the I'resi-I
dent of the I'nited States na a weak
and supine victim of surroundings
whose tendency js to address a note, i
What else can he do?
"Since the L.usitnnta incident and
the CiUllMght incident the able Senator
was a member of this body represent
ing tiie imperial State of New York. \
There was no power ir Hie world toj
paralyze his arm from introducing :??
resolution for action here in the Sen-!
ate of the United Slates.
"Since the Senator from New York
himself never tendered such, why will
ho be found In a high place so abusing)
its comri on sense bv attempting lo
delude the American people by ar
raigning the President of the United'
Slates, merely because Ik- is a Donin
eart, as unworthy of tleir contldence forj
not doing that which he knows well, in I
power, he could not do and where thoi
circumstances never could justify it."':
Dealing with the Mexican .situation,!
Senator Lewis pointed out that lite'
position taken by Mr. Hoot now is!
the reverse of what it was under pre- j
clsely similar conditions when tho lie-1
publican party w*t? In power.
RUSSIAN FORCES
STILL IN PURSUIT
OF FLEEING TURK'
Possibility of Stand by Ot
toman Armies West of
Erzerum Considered.
AS YET NO REPORTS
OF SUCH RESISTANCE
London Announces Completion
of the Conquest of the
Kamerun.
1-:.M)S ( A.MPAIOX LASTING VEA":
Constantinople Reports Rovorso f
Hritish In Mesnpntaminn
Operations.
Slavs Take To vvns
in Asiatic Turkey
I 'Hi: In test <?fill*liiI Mtnteinent b>
Ilir Russian \\ nr tlltice reports
? In* < hi)(iire of the ton im of Mush.
In Asiatic Turkey, lying: eighty
Hirer in 11 ok south-southeast of Er/.e
i rum. and Asliit. The pursuit of the
Turkish force* irho retreated from
ICrscrtim In lieln?c continued. and the
Hussions have taken prisoner Trhnt
renin Ined of the Thirty-fourth
Turkish Division. vtltli a larpe
quantity of itur supplies.
An air rnlil liy n n<|undron of
I in I In n nincli ines u^ntnst I.nthneh.
I'.ipltul of Cnrnluln, A tistrln-IInn
Kttry, Is onieiiilly reported from
Home. lloiiil)s were dropped on the
town, and they are thought to have
done considerable ilamuRe. Aus
tria u ueroplunes ascended for the
purpose of driving ofT the rnldcrs.
uml six of them Niirroiiuded one o>
the Italians ami brought hlni to
earth.
Asia and Africa figure more promi
nently titan Europe in the current war
news. The Kussiann are following up
with vlfe'or their recent success in
Turkish Armenia; Constantinople re
ports reverses for the P.rltish in Meso
potamia, while Iamilon announces the
completion of the conquest of the
Kamerun, the Important German colony
In western equatorial Africa. The Im
mense forces massed In the Kuropen.i
war .-ireas are Just now comparative!
inactive.
The pursuit of the Turks, who li ??!
from Erzerum with tho fall of tit
, fortress, is being' continued by li- ?
Russians. The possibility of a stai i
by the Ottoman forces a short dlstan >
west of th<? city is beinp considered I
Petrograd. but no reports of such r< ?
sistance by tiie defeated army hav.i
been received.
The Russians, meanwhile, are active
along- the lilack Sea coast, and hove
recently reported a landing* on the
Armenian littoral, fifteen miles east of
I rebizond, which city is considered one
of the next objectives of Russian Ian.I
forces by''& march of about 100 mlle:i
northwest from Erzerum.
lO\TIIti: I'ltO'l'lJCTOIIATK
\Mu:sTKi) Kittm ?r.nnA>s
l.ie completion of tlie ICamerun coi.
quest by the Franco-British force.
was effected with the capture of Mor;
a position In the northernmost section
of the colony, the last held by tho
Get mans, their southern forces ha.vlng
recently retreated over the border Into
Spanish Hulnea. where they were In
turned. The entire protectorate of
101,1.>0 square miles, and a population
of ".540.000, including: about 2.00t>
whiles, has thus been wrestod from
iiortnnn control, after a campaign thai
lasted nearly a year, having been be
K'in in the spring of 191f?.
.\o very recent British report of the
Mesopotamia!! operations is at hand,
but Constantinople announces thai
when a iirltish force ilown the Tigris
from Kiit-el-Amara, whero General
Townshend's army ia bottled up. tried
to c: oss to the west bank of tho rtver,
it was defeated in a three-hour battle,
and fell back to its second-line posi
tions. leaving: a number of ilead. The
defeat of a Russian force which at
tacked KhciiBavni', south of Hamadan,
far across the Persian border, is also
reported by the Turkish War Office,
which declares the Russians lost
heavily.
l-'rom the Franco-Belgian front come
reports of important troop movements
behind the German lines, but no now.1
of lighting on an extensive scale in
any sector. Tho British apparently
are. continuing their efforts to regain
their recently lost trenches southeast
of Ypres. Belgium, but Berlin, in an
nouncing the second British attack at
this point within two days, declare*
that it was fruitless.
Mining operations, artillery eiigage
nients, small raiding expeditions arid
aerial bombardments make up tho list
of the other activities in thts war area,
except a minor and unsuccessful att.nu
b> the Germans near Mlangy, in the
Artols district, announced from Paris.
lilt ITINII PA II. I V ATTK>I1?T
to ritovs tii 10 I'uatis
OON'STANTINOPRK, February 19 (via
I.ondon). An attempt by British forces
in Mesopotamia to cross the Tigris be
low Kut-el-Amara was repulsed after
a battle of three hours, the War Office
announced to-day. The British In theli
retreat were pursued to their second
line iiitrenchmcnts.
Announcement also is made that the
Russian forces in Persia have be?n
defeated in an encounter near Hama
dan, sustaining large losses. The state
ment follows:
"Mesopotamian front; Near Kut-el
Atnara there has been artillery and
infantry righting. In the Felahlo aec
tor hostile forces attempted to reach
the right bank of the Tigris. After r
battle of three hours they were com*
polled to retire, being >urauo& iuto th?
