rjy
iHnipujjifi ' ' i'1 i ir i--- - v - x - -w-rw-i-w , , JiWhiifcjrffcwmrTtT"-',,rvnit 'ixrr
if
o
WEATHER FORECASTS '
dvttfcMt Tonight
(Fuji Refrt on Pago Two.)
NTJMfcEB 8810
"WABHiKGKroar, Sunday YNisra, fjjbbtjabt 20, iis.
i'bice oNxcjcirr.
1 ffiWarfrtmirfmr Wimp . I ST6!
" ' i ' ' - LL - .... - n . r ' i i i r i ,. . i i ' '" ' " ' ' ' "i ' ; Trr- - -r- - '
- ' ' 1 ' ' '
l I
f
I
! y
V
V
IT BY Second Becker Case Is Revealed By
I ---k. -m aa1 ti . assssssssa.. SsB a
IE LIBEL SAYS'HUSBAND. IS DEAD Gunmen Who Murdered Poultry Kim
9 f J 7 -
FATHER DIIIiY.iN V KM.
. ' j.. .
AM MD'S WOM H
. . .. . , ,i
Pastor of St,-Alo:. 3ivs' Dvctcs Nino-Year-Old Sjn of Couple
Entire Sermon to Answering , Tells H6w Parents Fought
Accusation.
to Bid Him Good-by.
'1EN0UNCES it AS.ulNSUUTi AWAKENED AFTER SHOOTING
Priest Asserts Statement ' las .Father Took Him Out of Arms of
Been Withdrawn, B:.t "No His Dying Mother Jealousy
Apology Wade.
Motivi of Crime.
The charge ws ,'H,: thc.ehnrge Hon" hlr mother and fnihr. trut
was libelous in fart and In Inference,' b!iir In tlm'r fast ebbing womepts of
whatever may have been the Intention d,,,,,;, Bft,.r lnw tatter had shpt
f lt at.thor. and fhwllr ""'" W V'..inh
was an imperuuctivi- """ "
.Jnault." ,
Thus dlJ thn nv. Fat Iter txiiwrn
ntul (lien Mttrmotft? to end
hi oiv'n life, fonulit lo tmbrncr tUflr,
nlnr-vonr-rlil una reeled by th
konnelt- rharnrterlxo the rofevonce to child. Kdv.-crd li'clmrtl Tortl. U ths
tho "gate" of fit. Alovln CUUili nnde ((orttfc (lu;y, ,
by Andrew Wllion before n. Rotate fiuh- TJ)r motIiCr of thr chUJf jtrs, Ella
than S.aw nnn afflljtt'rd with tno uuro ' ' ' , .
o'ciock rvpo HiIh nwrnlnt,". . f'U-cr, Kdivnr.l lord. lant
FathT DonnU' devoted Mi enllie i t.f( f tho tflcrupli rilvlifrn Vnr
ermon to an nnswor or explanation ot ' pertinent. h did (ho fliOotln;;. l
th charge made by tna ncnu 01 io .
Antl-Saloon lRd whllo toftlfj Mur pe- 11ojil(,
fore the Henate suocoromuicc " irt woumi, nhvivo tho-heart. t!unonii
a critic 11 ennduton nt Emcracncy
M Ui riiliTerlm froiit two bul
heard iUniea opnoned to the fcfP- ftty ho haa n chance t" rcct.ver.
polntment of Chalrmun snilin, ni uio, The jmllco say-Jealousy prompted Kord ,
ciim wearo. i to t'o tho shoollns.
No Word of Apology. Only One In Apartment. GUISEPPF. ARICHELLI. Wo la
The. prleat raid he had received )i lei-, uttle Edwajd. or "Huddr," ua he ia!. rt.nnred witlt firin.- fatal shot.
Wm flUtll 1. IIIIPW'I t. .. . -- 1 -- m . iiwm. .1. ..IV liriKIIUUIIIV.14 .
i ccueatloti, but "not one worn or rfgrci or tno bt. Uconce Apnrlmrnts. Twen
1 orapotogj' hud h6cn opntutned In all tho'tith mil :. utrceU, wh-ro tho trai;edy
' wreapond;nce." l wo 8 ei'nctcd, was the only one In tho'
Tho offending statement, tho priest de-rUttlonpd'tinont at the time of thJ
r.1arrt wax nrnmrStod li- nrotudlce. and I hootlni(.
, lia criticised the author for falling to j ltla boyish mind, Mw"vh..t htey :oif
Wieitlon authoHilea 'it the-church be-1 ci-mlni; tho terrible rordtftl thtvuh
lore thi -utttin f. imn up jiaaaeu suorny uexore lul
Ueglnnlnit Mlth a nrurenctMroiit Uc
gospel of the dny, "la thy eye evil, be
aea I nm Rood," Futhor" Donnelly
jlrat reviewed thu controversy. He sold:
' "Wn hay jtono thtough n'ad cxpeii
Bce durlner the past week, and I feel
it my duty t6 Btate to you tho facta of
the.cajiq, a.nd whut my ottjtudo la to
warn tnee jacia nnu wnnc Jjiiuuur uu, iiivmr. ur lomnii inomns, came to I
y pepplpAnd my friend should take. I the HU Oeorso early yutterditv evening'
. ''At the beginning tit the week before (o talto him to the "movie." ,
. rnrnmltlw nf tli Senata hit uccua-l "DnddVk-woilWii't in ia thm tin-I
fiorf wastmade whleh renocted directly
jrectiyi,iUMn you:;t the, end of. the
rek Wm iTccuBatlotr'ts-wlthamwn. -
4 AccBaatlon Monstrous.
Ttho -aqcusatlon. thal.tho church had
Qoniiriered to furilier thd tiviuion of uw
lawi.Trfts an astounding and monstrous
accusation, and tlip complete -withdrawal
t 4s gratifying as Its utterance waa
oaddcnlng. , " , . , ,..s
'E enter Into .this discussion witlt no
feeling of exaltation over a conquered
adversary. I do not now and never did
wish "to aBcrlbe to the author of this
accusation evil motives. I am not
taking, and 't do not desire to taltq. eltnr
aide In the eentroveray which Rave oc
caeloft to this gravo charge. But I,Co
wish to put down us a matter of his
torical record all the facts of the case.
"On Monday evening my attention
was called to the statement In a paper
which cited evidence sm before the
Senate committee. It -wr declared 'ttiat
an entrance to this church waa closed
to further an evasion of the law, I at
once stnt to the papers a denial of the
fact, claiming the statement was un
true and libelous. I wrote to the aame
(Continued on Third Fage.)
NOW WE KNOW WHO
CAUSED THE BIG WAR
How Could "Bill" Learn Army
Wasn't "Bully."
iiNHHkX isisisisisisisisisHINHiHNnsliH 1111 I LI
AVjHgMjB?BaV ISiSiSiSiSiSiSiSiSiSiSiaHHHiBiBlBlBlBBlBlBlBlBlBlBHHiBlBHBS
J & .jaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBJJBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBHgs BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBaSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBjS
l!Ummmr WMMMMByjialalalall
a .'-? SBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBnMK' ur.aj .'l W A.T. t-T . . aiBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBI BBBBBBBBBIBBBaaBaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBtE.. tV J .. ' S-'SBBBBBBaSBBBBBBBBBBBBBaBBaaiBBBBBSBBBBBBBiBlBBBBBBSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB 'aBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBI
I W MlBBBBBBB lXmJ?"n'' ' "r '" HbBBBbB ' MMKMBnr '' - " Y ' ' i A V TWIMMlaBBBWIMIftBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBWSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBl
. 9)nBMBtSBBBWlBL '! ' ': 1(l ff. tf" 'BBBBT lEl BnfBESr;BBBaBBBBBBBBBlBlBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBlBBBBBBBBBBlBBBBBBBBBBBBBBl
.::," i.biW.';H'U& ..iWiiZl:.:t:.v .v-v;;iv;i
t Tvl. JWilBBBBBBBBBr5r?3riryi;lC?i-r &L BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBg'A .JIL' ' . "'AvV.- 7llin nlMHBMi1i
,' 'O'" 'JilBlBBBBBBBBBLHVtiWKW f P VXV LBlBBBBBBBfc? 7 i XV
'.a-flHHlB---Hv'v-'XB.IlBlllHI r ' ifjvH!&$.fm.
iftaflHIBlH fc' - ' -(''m . "Murder Car" used by gunmen who
xHyMtMiini. o;Mro-:.5:; !nnnrT 115 1 rn omi
"-Z -- s 'fc'MBWiVJ'jfV'I V -3bbbbbbR LKIbbbbbbs c '
1 1 .- -VBBlW-iJB'! :!,,& ..i 't-i' S.J BBIBBBBBS 'aaBAHSaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBl
K .5 S " BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBtWr'.r '-it ..fl BBBBBBBlBBBBBBBaiBBBBBBBSDBB. .. II " BBBBBBBM,T
w&riimB$n Men Hrnn n '.Vi
THRONG AT OPEN NG SmMJWM:mm
1 nnuno hi ur minu Mi mMm
- RFV1VAI HDMF :H BifM
Vl S a h, I I IM IIIBB 'K:'i;SUWeSSaBBBBBBBBkkVr." lllBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBl,t BBBBBBBBBBBBB
LHlBBBBB3lBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBHllH&tlX QllLLLLLLL
5::?'
GRAVE TURN
GIVEN ISSUE
BERLIN
President Reportid to If An
gered by AotivitkeC of Gr
msn Ambttcatfor Here.
PROBABLE RECALL MJMOfiED
Latest Development Said to In
dicate Relations Ifttween
Nations More Strajnetf.
"I Am Waiting for Him to Con
fess," Declares Josephine
Davis Tells of Liaison.
mldnlgnt, Is unaMe to remombr oven1
thing that luipnened from the tine lie.
uii HHunrafi ry -ror.ie one iukmii,;
ntMili l.cd clothinu.
RWltml 111 fi liJ.il In .. nnM.. ..1
joiiung the one in which the crime waa Baltimoreans CroWd Billy Sun
committed, the child told how his fath- . 3
er.whu had been ecporatcd irom hU Hnu Toriornanlu Hnlim Rr
IhIi of the pictures, and made m got
homo curly,'-a)d tiio child. '.IWTieawnil .
got to the apartnleut wanum waa look-P iji.
ill but Ot th wlndmv. fvxl.tv -w.ut.rl
tu know whaf 6ho waa doing that for,
and she a&tdttecaue ho -wonted to. v
"I said a prayer by thlde of tho
bed before I cot In to make daddy and
mamma stqp fussing.
Didn't II!ar Any Shets.
"Nojjlr. I djdn't hear any shots.'"
said the oy In answer to a question
from one of the policemen. "I got up
when I fe'.t tho Hugging at the apread
and blanket, and tho next thing I knew
t was In mnmnia'n anus. Fler face waa
covered with blood and she was crying,
I don't just remember everything she
said, I was so scared.
"I know she said daddy had killed
her. Bhe waa kissing me when Daddy
irrabbed mo in his arms and fell to the
floor. AH he said was, 'my darling
boy, my Buddy, I'm going and I want,
to tsll you ifood-byl'
"Then he tolled to tho Hoor and tho
next thlnj; I know I was In Mr. Ar
lington's apartment."
Mrs. Ford was crawling along the
hallway of tho fifth .floor, where her
apartment v7an located, when A. J. Ar
rfngton, tvlio occupies tho apartment to
which fli Uttlo boy was removed,
opened tho door of hla room to Investi
gate toe revolver report.
"He'8 trying to liiU me. For Qod'a
sake SJVO ir.v boy. nave nudriv." she
I cried. "Don't let him kill the boy."
1 Airlrif, ti t.nya ho took a quick glance
m tin
fore Dedlcatipn,Seryioes.
1
CHICAOO. Fb. . The 8tte' hooe
of convteUnc William Oroet of the mur
der of Marian Inibert practically rest
uoon the tetlmonv expected to be
T'ven by htr roost Intimate clrl friend,
Joet)hlne Pnvih.
Th'a wat disclosed this mornlrta- In a
retnarkaalo Interview with lha clrl
printed In a locul paper. ' The statement
h the first odbtlc one she has' -made
since the traredv. I
"Marian did not JoveVlIl it tlie time
of her death." Visa Davis .is ouoteA aa
MBS". iARNBBAPP, Idow ,f BARNBt JaCAPAjL W TZ" 8X?28Z XI
A f "Pttttt,'JTrtrilU j. . dered. " f world that shejotk. ovanide of potaa-
)l t
suits in Arrest of Hired Assassins of Barnet
lsiff: Monster of Crime Born Out of
r Prosaic Buying and Selling.
Aa to the cause of tho wni. the Army rn nnk- i vnnr with mtt. tswrt
and Navy Journal twill1 the following! ,, , . ,. .
etory as havlhg been related in a do-. " -tf n Becond Pagfr
bate.befpre tho City Club of Hartford. , . . ,
C?h:o caused tho ar" That Is MlCiCS Of Cdl T '(1X1X0.
)onjr utorv. ntchtu-cl Hardlncr Uovl.4
mto Buckingham 1'alace uik! said: 1
"wow, ueirge. op llm Ji-vet. a.n De-i
BitiMUAitP Th tnTh Ana'tm . L
1M..UU,..., m-r jf--- --,--- UnUH,
to the tabemt!e on Tork roaa. f JT
SSriVtHS; JSrSSSJSI Fqurteen Months' Chasej 01 Meagerest Clue, Re-
open heore 3 o'eloctt. ltowossm onaa(
tviyaK-to vour In, althoutrli the hour
jct for the formaj dedication of tho
bulldlnp la 3.30 o'clock.
In every one of the co-operating;
churches thla mornlne members wero
Invited to nttend the dedication and
'the early arrival of the throngs in-
dlcated that an enormous numner
will be on hand for the historic, oc
casion. "I want every one of the 800 men
In thla Tllble class to attend the ded
ication." eald the Hev. E. D. Stone,
pastor of rlio Hampden Methodist
Protestant Churcli. this morning. And
members of this class make It a rule
nt thole tito to nhnv. '
ThoaJ atiendlnR- niw are for the
most oait the aame people who have
boen praying and worklna; for the
ruccess of the campaign.
The service today Is to be limited
to the dedication of the building and
to the. launching of the campaign.!
Next Friday night there will be an
old-time piayer meeting In the tab
ernacle,
'Ah well I don't knew! von ro and
ask Nick.'
"Fo Davis went to rotrocrad, and
Bald! 'Now. Nick, who wdh It? And
Nick said: 'I don't l:now; you lietter
NEW YORK, Feb. 20.Six hired asiassins in a .death car scpt
ujf to the West Washington Market an hour after sunset, November
24, 1914. ' "
Bystanders, startled by the grinding brakes of the machine, saw
two of them, their features indistinct in the half light, leap to the
pavement. ,
Two shots rang out. Barnet Baff, poultry king, whose very name
brought curses- to the lips ofjiis competitors, crumpled where he
stood talking before his office.
. Back into the murder car leaped the gunmen. The engine
wh'icb had not ceased its throbbing gartiercd.'speed. .Covered by a
pall-of thick, greasy smoke, spurting from its exhaust, the car slid
away into the safety of darkness. , '
Behind' it. a dead man lav upon the pavement. In his body had
iter. on H. uoit, who was a mem-j , . . ..,.. oo -:iw,, K1l-t
ber of the committee of threa that! Iddged 9. heavy .38 caliber bullet.
uoTsua0dCMr?0Rimd0Ayeato" comu, Horrified bystanders remembered only that the license number
Baltimore, win preside. . . I 0f the death car contained the numerals "2" and "4." These things
The invocation will De pronounced i T . .... l i . .. . 4 . ..
by the itev. Carlton d. Harris, editor alone remained to fjuide the men of the law in their hunt for the
of the Boulhern Methodist, and the ,
siivcn
CAR TRAILED FOURTEEN MONTHS.
Fourteen months later, on February
10. 1916. with only tneso meager
Itev. Dr. P. T. i.lttle, piesldent of th
Ministerial Union, will read the
, ptialm?'
'ine nrst lesson win oe reaa oy ine
tween two friends, vho taU'ed thls Colonel Roia3 SaVS Generals Are Rev. D Jojin McDowell, pastor of
fWiiiJUO , I UrUljn ,UtlilUIll I J CnUlVI V11UVI a. a- ..1r rtm, nt h.
Desertmr; first Chief Villa nnd then win ne suns -hock or riues on K . ""'?;", ,""::
Ikvo, I luilKcnv iiu t imji p..w-.- -.- ---
. Afi5r V.1'8 P,rft?;r' ja1r'ri, I,PA i undertaken by trained detectives, end-
go ana ask mil.' Fa ho went to Ber
lin, aiappeo uui on inn buck and said
"Hill, old chap, vho was It?"
" Teddy.'
" Teddy' .
"Yes. after he vot thioucli helnr
Prcolder.t he wont to Africa to hunt
for a while; then he- went to Stock
holm to iret a rcoijo prize and then hn
came nero ana wo nxe
battle r.ir 1
near. . When
raid to me- lllll, thnl'a a hully-'nrmv
you-ve pot; -vou crn licit any army Jn
the word. Now, how 'n h vn I
to kr.ow thn; ho was n, blank .lar?' "
Found Unconscious and
Guarded by Her Pet Dog
Augmenting Forces.
SAN ANTONIO, Feb. 20. Many of
.QonciAl Currnnza's generals, having
hecome rich, are uuletlv lenvlnir the
H-tjunlry, uccouIIim to n ntatpinent
made hero by Col. Juan ItoJa, of Gen
eral Obregon's staff. J
Obregou, ho declares. Is shorn of all I
military powers nnd Is In effect a I
to Thee."
fcung.
una tne aoxoiogy win oe , . ..,, ,... Prnnk Ferrara.
chauffeur of the murder car, fell Into
the tolls of the law.
hi wSii,2i?A' .tft.-"1.' lrlsonor with Carrunzj.
.h,u.' il It- Lct! 5L l?.i General Iturbide, once
I iii nnttle wns nvftr helr.-.- .ij ,- inmr t
in i tini. n i.nii-'n-,. 1 oarranza am, is going t
an Important
to Japan, and
othera ure preparing to depart to
foreign noli.
It Ih conceded by military exptrtH
that Carranza's foruei aio rapidly dlu
Integrating, nnd g-ovcrnors of many
stnidd are xald to bu acting on per
sonal authority.
Carranza. himself. Is making his wuy
to tho west coast, whore the presence
of a war ship Is believed lo bo for the
purpos or orecring him refuge In any
""lMl 1j i.. vly augntentinif h'a foi ces. I ff. 'Dtwil
vhllo thoic In no real mlliUuy moye-1 !l"1?od n " vall,n
lir.ArmMMUA. Feb. !ll. Tineon
se'ous and rimnfed hv her net do. M-. loroorfiei.ry.
Victor Parllon. HTed fifty, of ?011 S- h .'
Dolivlei sticrt wpa fogiifl I't 'l' 'oo nK
of the stnlrs of her 'tome ljv "-n omen Tho rebel chieftain Iiiih forvrtrdod to
frlenri. whn enii'i, to hei liniw lo ar-t,vio Slate DepuitiiK lit u uhuonl'nt that
nilSDand today. . CurniliKA ltli wnntnnlv ilAstrnvlnlr
She had fallen m' - u f 'n- Ktill. property valued nt more than 500.000.UM
$2,624 RICHER THAN
HE WAS BEFORE FIRE
Bank Book Lost Sixteen Years
Discovered in Ruins.
BTAJ'USTON, N. Y Fe. M.-A'nrc
which dinned i hl carriage house to
tho extent of $1,000 has made George
Urcl'tvl, H'tn of tho latp Htiten Island
Lrowcr and former champion wrestler,
ii,U wcaliUlor than ho thought ho waa.
While liiEpnetlng the bunted building
he discovered in a storeroom a tin box.
In thla ho found a bankbook which
chowed J1.C00 credited to him In a sav-
Tnlci'cst for sixteen years
-..l.. --. thaw MwM-l'
At Bt. Ac-tics' Iie-wl'"! ' '" k'" a
taken. It Is s:ld Pht p"n' n -er.
Accordlnc to tic? iVe ."- Ci-U.-n
and her husband nmve ' l"'- 'he liou
Mer street house lnl W'n'ilv Tho,
following tluy-Cnriton del .nil hH
body was remoyed to an unOo-tnkei'u
Mrs, Carlton waa found (ipparmit'.v us
If aho had fallen all the 'way lawn
stairs. Her clothing mid huir pet-tAdls-
turbed where the dog. In vain utt
to arouse her. had pulled at them
Erciy Da ' Rk'1 Wal
Augusta Sr- ' 1, 'v s "i-iin !
for ColmiiMn, mi, ii ,y .I'fa.
ern Ttallnuy. TCC I'tl- -.'11 U .
ev
and hllllnr thouanda of Americans, for-
Vlgnora and natives.
Powder-Flecked Hair
Is Latest Fad of Paris
lAnf8. Feb. CO.-irnlr lightly flecked
with powder Is to bo the fashion In
Parli In the coming aprlng. according
lo soclelv halrdretwrfl.
-eial riroTiilnont dressnmlwr are
.lie-iV' -iilliv out their mantieouln
m -h iioiiiu t mm tolffnurs. Ihu color of
'uni.tr imnhtiiK tho hulr ot harm-
I lesslv blending therewith.
f tho account to
Itechtcd scld he had no Idea how the
old bankbook 'happened to bo stored In
the earrings house,
Comrie Castle, British
Steamer'; Fast on Rocks
LONDON, Feb. 20. Word reached
here today that the British steamship
Comrlo Castle struok ana Is caught
fast on a reef off Mombusa, British
East Africa, Her passengers wero
landed In safety,
The steamer Comrie Castle Is owned
by the Union Castle Mall 'Steamship
Company, of London. Klie was built
at aiaxgow In 1903. anil la of fi,173
tons. She was last reported on Jan
uary 1 at Marseilles.
Between the night when naroet
Baff was done to death ,ftnd the Jay
when Ferarra was safely lodged In
durance, a police classic n the hunt
ing of man by men. had been lived.
And when Ferarra told whut he
knew of the killing of the poultry
kin, a classic of crime was added
to the.ajrrady grim annals of, thej
central, ornce,
A secpnd and In ome ways a n-ore
remarkable Becker rase had come
to light.
Out ot the prosaic buying nnd sell
ing of poultry for profit hud been
born a monster of murder. Each of
its hydra-head was. an arch enemy
of Barnet Baft's. Its dripping ten
tacles were six hired assassin, avid
for blood money,
. But this knowledge pame to the
police only after, a lunK. dlnhearten
Ing aeaVcii for the murder car had
progressed through fouileen weary
months, ,to a successful conclusion,
ten days ago.
Since thAt time, however, the cur
tain of myptery which had beon wrap
ped about the Hilling: haa been lift
ing steadily. . . . ,
A clue rUn out a statement torn from
participants in fear of the Osslntng
chair a rumor pinned to earth. And
at last tttp Pol'" .JleUv?. ,n.elr nro
standing upon the threshold of a re-ma-ir-hi
and far-reaching crime.
Here are some of the almost unbe
lievable faota which the police say
their Investigation has airoaoy ois
rlnaH!
.o less rtpan -TO of Bsmet Baft's
bulie- rtvnls were directly or Indi
rectly, ooiuwlniitly or unconsciously,
concerned in his death.
A fund of !. ultimately used to
aatUfy .the six 'assassins, waa COntrfb-
uteii by these men,-
)t this amount, Ban hlmxeir, under
the Improjslnn that.lt was lo be used
to avert a strike, furnished 3200.
Ippollto Greco, boss of Harlem's
"Little Haly," backed by an unidenti
fied "man higher up," was custodian
and dlsburelng officer of the fund,
Several stress rehearsals of the, crime
.were itae;ed, -so that there might be
no iincoittlntv when the time come to
kill Fnrnet unff.
Two nttemnts to "get" the noultry
king were made as early- as August,
WH, These were frustrated by tbe
nresencn nt rtiin"a nnllre ruarrt.
I Thi murilcr fund was divide;" In this
talilon: to tlreco. lio ,mKinoerei tno
crime. Sl.f,i" to th thrco lookouts. t&
to the two gunipon. W); to tre chnur
fenr nnd to th?co other rien who aided
Creep. Sl,."'i: a total of JI.2C0..
The remainder of the fund, noproxl
matelv ITM, wjia, nild to-bther ssasnlns
by the "man higher un" for the killing
of flreeo. who wn murdered lit October
upon the theory thnt "dP,idmn tell no
tales."
ITo was shot to death In hl murder
Btable In Koat lOMh street. In thla
plnce. fo'irtcon kllllnj.'i have taken
nlaee In four yeej"u
Manv of the dlrc'n?nres.ln addition
to the. information gained from Ferar
ra and other confessing participants,
were ontolncd by a wdman, A relation
of BafTs. bent upon yengeance, s.e
simulated love for one nfythe minor
nwner up ' in tne. muruer omi.
But this knowledge wil'- only mnde
possible by following the long blind trail
left by the murder car. AmLhere Is the
manner In which, given only two dis
connecting numerals, this ffat of de
tection was accomplished.
There wcro perhaps a score- ot neo
ple who ssv the murder of Barnet Baff.
They nnd the police know that Baff
was the most cordially natetp man in
the New York poultrv mtrket. Mle had
slum knowtaictfVfln a sulcldo Oact or
otherwise, irr.no dm not. xorce tne
poison down hw throat. lio waa tricked
into taking It, -
"I know Will Ornel killed Marian.
and I ani waiting to Jitm to confess."
Miss DavU states that tbe Lambert
girl made a confidante of her,
"I knew of her intimacy with Will al
most from the Mart." she sav. "She
loved htm at first. But her lave soon
turned to passive consent because of
fear of exposure. The liaison would
never hava developed if Marian had
-Mown the ways of the world. I con
sider her parents are- to blame for this
lack of knowledge."
Ten days after the girl's body waa
found in the snow, fact after fact haa
been piled up in evidence for or against
younc Cruet, but these two Questions
remained unanswered, the authorlUea
admit: .
"Whut motive had Marian for commit
ting suicide? ,
hat motive could Orpet have had for
killing her?
as anmittea oy autnonties, tne gin
knew she had no reason to write to
Orpet as she did. And what motive
tor auiciae sne couia nave naa otner
than the sentimental hysterica of a
school girl crossed In love, no one could
cay.
On the other hand, the web of cir
cumstantial evldsnco woven about Or
pet hna failed to snow why ne, a youtn
of education, exnetlence as a newspaper
writer, ahould have murdered her even
If ho had heiievert witat sne wrote mm.
Whether these points w)U te cieaxea
at the Inquest tomorrow was not re
vealed by Coroner Taylor. He admitted,
however, he would ask Orpet to testify.
The youth'a attorneys said they would
not permit him to take the stand.
GEYSER SPOUTS ,MEN
FROM RIVER TUNNEL
Four Workers Driven Through
Sand and Water by Blast.
NEW YOniC. Feb. SO. Persons cross
ing Brooklyn Bridge nnd others at work
along the lower East river front yester
day, saw a geyser suddenly, rise from
tho river, some .200 feet from the 'foot of
Montague street. Brooklyn, mount hlah
Into the air, and then subside to a
fountain, ten feet In height. k
The startled (spectators saw dark obi
Jects In the first spurting column., which
were carried twenty-five feet Into the
air and then sank back Into the river.
Presently ihe watchers saw two men
swimming for the Brooklyn shore. And
then they realized the dark objects, had
tteen men and that somehow thev had
boen blown up out o fthe river
But It was only tho .ofncluU at the
Montnitue street end of the new Uroad
wh) -Seventh avenue subway tunnel,
where terrltcU workmen uished Into
the compressed nir cnls.ou. clumoring
to be let out, who realised that a part
of the river bed had given wav. and the
swimmers had been catapulted upward
by tho force of the compressed air
through fourteen foot of sand and silt
nnd twentv.slx feet of river water.
It waa manv jnlnutea before the ex
tent of the accident waa learned. Then
It waa found that one man had been
killed, two injured, and another was
missing.
Invoked the Rherrmn law -iiMnjt com
petitors who, endenvored to fght his hon
est, but tnercllesp. met id Of. 0"!-e
eutllnT Time nnd time affali his life
(Continued on Page Nine.)
No Debtors for Town.
WAtlKON. Iowar. Feb, 30. This Is
"pay up" week In Waukon. Waukoa
residents have been requested to set
tle up all it, their dett This cty re
reerlved a national reputation on the
strength of Its first "pay up" week
last year, when accounts totaling
or than SCO.OOO w-re paJd.
Developments of the l&at'twenty
fourhqurs have iten a-grtve rtmr
to the relations btweea the United
States and Germany over the ques
tion of submarine warfare.
One report, lacking official con
firmation, is that Count von
Bernstorff, the German ambassa
dor, has irritated Administration
officials by publicity methods to a
point that may impair his future
usefulness in Washington.
President Wilson and Secretary
Lansing are said to have become
greatly irritated over publication
of details of the confidential ne
gotiations over 'the submarine
issue at a time when the State De
partment, feeling itself pledged to
secrecy, maintained silence.
OFFICIAL ANGER AROUSED.'
nefitfal of the State Department tp
discuss confidential negotiations,' -sihilo
the ruccecoHoff sepsn the aegvtlatlons
Were grven out from a sopre which of-fk-'als
belfeve cOUld' be ,6 other .than -
the Oerman embassy, has aroused of
ficial anger.
'Ambassador Von Bernstorff was In
New York today, and embassy- off Icials
knew nothing about published' reports
that Secretary Lansing might call on
the ambassador for an explanation, and
that eventually the.sltuatlon might lead
to von Bemstorffs recall.
Secretary Lansing declared there waa
no truth in the story tnat he contem
plated) calling tbe ambassador to the
State, Department for an explanation.
There waa no Indication. Jte said, that
the United States wouhl ask the Tfatl
cf the1 rambaMa4or.' Ho insisted that
there was.no change In his relations, of
ficial or personal; -with the Oerman
ambassador.
Mr. Lansing would not discuss the
matter further, saying he was averse
to conducting diplomatic negotiations
through the cress.
Hotr Situation Stands,
Other developments, however, indica
ting' that German-American relations
are nearer the breaking point than they
have been recently may be summarized
as follows:
Germany's determination, expressed In
news dispatches,, to stand pat on tha
Lusttanla case and to reject all efforts
to Induce It to postpone the operation
of Its new submarine campaign against,
armed vasarfa.
The insistence of the Bute Depart
ment that it has not contemplated any
chango in its policy ot recognizing th
rights of merchantmen to carry acten
alve armament.
Irritation of .officials that Ih Itr.ores
alon haa been circulated, they believe
from German sources, that the LnltoU
States "flopped" oil thn armed mer
chantmen, question after Blviwr Ger
many to understand tht'lt approved
the Oerman decree holding such vessel-
to be warships . ,. , ... .
The probability that herT-IU be a
demand 'hi Congress this week -for an
explanation of recent dlplom"tc nego
tiation beHvcen the United Btate and
Germanv on tho submarine and armed
merchantmen question.
Tho openly expressed view of, 'iitui
bers of Cohgres that the United fU ;t
did chanro It position from that takin
m the Lansing pronoal of Ijiwwr V.
Im which It was said the United J3tatc
was faborablv disposed to the Grmn
view that armed Irtlllgerent vessels
should be classified as wnrshlpa.
Demand From , Con grew.
Probably "thnt there, will be a demand
In Congress for an ctplanatlOn of th
reason oc the United Stotes'fOr making
these proposals to the entente allle.4
The danger of complications arhln.t
from' the libeling or the German prire
ship Appant at Norfolk Ty IU British
owners, witlt the possibility, of dragging
Into tho courts a case which Is' now un
der diplomatic consideration. -The- re
turn of this vessel to its British own
ers, orrtclals realize, would arouse the
greatest anger of the German govern
ment, Out of all these development af
fecting' thr submarine issue the feel
ing has Krojvn in official' circles that
i.t least a part of Its present trouble,
arlslnir from a misunderstanding of
this Government's position, has been
due to the failure of officials to take
the public into their confidence. i
The Lanslntr proposals to the en
tente allies, . asking them to disarm
merchantmen in return for pledge
from Germany, that It woul4 no tor
pedo unarmed- vessels,, wero not given
out by tbe State Department. In
stead tbey wero cabled, back from
London without any, explanation M
the reasons why they wero mad.
Fellew German Decree.
Asa matter qf'fact the texi or tb
proposals waa not published in'th
fnlted States until after German?
had issued Its new submarine 4err.
In the Lansing ptopoaals the con
cluding paragraph salt that Uu
I
TiriHrV-'
.4..
. a- . - jJJt.J& A ". -
-j. iu jtti.
