tmmwm 'Mwmmvm-m 'yii5nJ5Tip
NIGHT
EXTRA
wt NIGHT
K 4 EXTRA
tmttn
T C '
VOL. II. NO. ITS
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, AVItIL 5, 15)10.
Coriciont, 1015, bt mt roBMo Lemeu Courivt.
1'BICE ONE CENT
Slte
3 r
-.
INVASION OF UNITED STATE
NEVER PLANNED BY GERMANY,
HOLLWEG TELLS REICHSTAG
Chancellor Calls Talk of Intent to
Violate Monroe Doctrine "Silly"
War Must Be Fought
to Finish
Asserts Poland and Conquered Parts of Kussia Will
Never Be Returned 4to Czar Creation of
"New Belgium" Contemplated by
Empire After War
BERLIN, April 5.
"Germany neither tit this time nor any time in the future contemplates
aggression ngainst the United States. I protest against all reports of German
hostility against America."
This statement was made in the course of a comprehensive "war speech"
in the Reichstag today by Doctor von Bethmann-Hollwcg, the Immperial
i Chancellor. He also declared, amid applause, that tho war must bo fought to
J n finish.
Tho Chancellor added that Germany had never contemplated the acqui
sition of treritory in any of tho Americas.
"Tho last offspring of tho campaign of calumnies directed ngainst us," ho
, Enid, "is tho report that after tho end of this war wo shall rush against tho
American continent and shall attempt to conquer Canada as our first province.
"This is the silliest of all imputations invented against us, and equally
I silly nro the reports that wo contemplate the acquisition of any territory on
Ameriean soil, cither in Brazil or any American country whatsoever."
FIGHT FOR EXISTENCE,
"Wo fight for our existence and our fu
ture. For Germany, find for no foot of
foreign soil, Germany's sons nro blooding
nmt dying on tho battlefield.
"Everybody among us knows this, nnd
that makes our hearts nnd nerves strong.
This moral strength strengthens our wW,
not only In order to weather the final
storm, but nlso for final victory."
Tho Chancellor pointed out that on Sep
tember 9 ho had declared his readiness to
enter Into peace discussions, but that Gcr-
1 many's enemies had declined.
"Let us suppose," said tho Chancclor.
"that I suggest to Premier Asqulth that
' ha sit down with me at a tablo and ox-
i amino tho possibilities of peace. Mr.
Asqulth begins with a clnlm for the defi
nite nnd completo destruction of Prussia's
military power. Tou seo tho conversation
would bo ended before It began.
i "To these peace conditions from our
enemies, only ono nnswer Is left. This an
swer our Bword must give. If our adver
saries, want to cpntlnuo tho slaughtering
of human beings- and tho devastation of
tKuropo tholrs will bo the guilt and wo will
,havo to stand It as men."
"' Tho Chancellor Insisted that tho conflict
must bo fought out to a finish and that
guarantees of peace in Europe must bo
forthcoming after this conflict 13 over.
Amidst a great burst of npplauso Doc
tor von rjothmann-IIollweg concluded his
address with these words:
"A spirit of union shall lead us and
Bhall lead our children nnd grandchildren
through tho struggles of their fathers to
ward n futuro of strength nnd llborty."
Beginning a review of the military situa
tion, ho said:
"Reports of tho enemy that Germany's
forces hnvo been used up are proved falso
by what Is now happening at Verdun,
I .where operations wero prepared with pro
found foreslghtfand where tho bravery of
German troops obtains ono advantage
after another."
Tho chancellor called attention to the
fact that since his last speech In the Reich
stag, the Dardanelles enterprise of the
Allies had ended In disaster, the Serbian
campaign had been brought to si succcs
1 ful conclusion by tho German, Austro
Jlungarlan nnd Bulgarian troops, that Al
bania and Montenegro have been taken by
tho German allies, that the English at
tempt to tellove Kut-KI-Amara has been
checked, that tho Russian advance Into
Turkey has been checked, following the
1 occupation of Ererum by them, that the
Italian offensive, has failed and that the
I Itusslan attacks against the Austro-Hun-
garlatis on tho Gallclan front have broken
i down.
WINTER CRQPS GOOD.
"I realize that living conditions In Ger
many are not easy," said the Chancellor,
"but the difficulties are being borne in
admirable fashion by the whole nation,
especially by the poorer classes. Winter
crops are good. In fact. It has been many
yeare since reports were so hopeful.
"The harvest of 1915 was the worst In
, decades; nevertheless our Btock of bread
corn will not only bo sufficient, but will
' leave a good reserve with which to enter
, the new year. We shall not run short of
' anything In the future as wo did In the
1 past,"
Doctor Von Bethmann-Hollweg pointed
out that the Allies were trying to extend
. the war to German women nnd children
by starving them, saying. In this connec
tion: "It was for this purpose that England,
with her Allies, has been violating the
Continued on Fate Fire, Column Three
THE WEATHER
With war and factional fighting engag
ing the, energies of so many of the world's
citizens. It Is with great satisfaction that
' we are able to announce a truce until
late next September In ore form, of pop.
ular Indoor hostilities, That is, the big
scrap as to whether the windows shall be
up or down in thousands of business of
fices throughout the city. The combatants
vary in character from "the fresh-air
fiend." who wants tho wlndowb open dur
N' ing the progress of a blizzard, to "the
thin-skinned guy," who wants the win
dows closed because ha thinks the Invlgo
I rating airs of early spring are "drafts."
But now they will be at peace for months
to come.
With the baseball fans In the lucky
seventh, we can now cry to the windows,
"All upl" 'jt
FORECAST
. For Philadelphia and vicinitu
Fair tonight and Thursday; not much
change in temperature: light westerly
K-mas,
For details see page 14,
LOST AND rOUND
I'BOOCH Diamond brooch. Monday evcnliur.
fuUur from 60th and Christian to IMh and
ivauaco. via xi
Reward. Til S o(Hb- J
Woodland. 3301 U
(SOLD WATCH KCU I9t Wednesday nishl
between Broad and Chestnut and Peonjyi.
tan. Prtntton, N J " I
vtntr mo ana nnn a ea- rs 1
DUTCH AND DANES
RESENT U-BOATS'
SINKING OF SHIPS
Holland Deputies Hold Se
cret Session Danish
Press Angry
CALL ATTACKS WANTON
AMSTERDAM, April 5. The Nor
wegian ship Arena has been sunk by
a mine or torpedo.
Both Holland and Denmark aro open
ly resentful of Germany's U-boat policy.
Tho general commlttco of tho second'
chamber of tho Dutch Parliament mot
secretly today to consider the military
situation. Holland Is in tho midst of tho
biggest war scare tho country has
known slnco tho outbreak of tho Euro
pean strife. Thero Is a national feeling
of uneasiness, but tho public at largo Is
without any detlnlto Information as to
tho cause. Rumors of possible war nro
based upon tho fear that Holland's neu
trality may bo attacked, cither by tho
Allies, in driving directly Into Germany,
or by Germany In an attempt to fore
stall such an offensive.
The Copenhagen Government faces a
concerted demand of press and people
for aggressive measures to stop tho at
tacks on unarmed Danish vessels by
submarines. The nttucks aro called
"wanton." and tho death of Danish sea
men Is described "as murder."
Developments in other neutral coun
tries are rapidly leading toward what
may be an International discussion of
tho Von Tirpltz policy. Norway Is resent
ful at numerous disasters to Norse ship
ping, and Spain Is in a protesting mood.
The feeling in the United States over
the ravages of submarine warfare, still
unadjusted by Germany, is reflected in
nearly every other neutral nation.
THE HAGUE. April 6.
Torpedoing of tho Dutch schooner
Continued on Yate FItc Column One
TIE AND SHIRT TRAP TWO MEN
Prisoners Accused of Robbing Pas
sayunk Avenue Store
An undershirt worn by one man and a
necktie by his "pal" today caused the pair,
alleged to be burglars, to be held In $1600
ball each for a further hearing by Magis
trate Coward, of the 7th nnd Carpenter
streets station.
The apparel was Identified by Mrs. Rose
Cohen, of 1111 Passyunk avenue, as be
longing to her stock of goods. Tho shirt
and tie were "peeled oft" In a cell and
returned to her Policeman Condeco, who
arrested the men early today, found a
burglar's jimmy, a flashlight and a quan
tity of haberdashery In their possession,
he declares.
PACKING TRUST GRIPS
STOCK MEN, SAYS ONE
Vice President of National As
sociation Charges Buying
Competition Is Eliminated
WASHINGTON, April 6. Edward L.
Burke, vice president of the American
National Livestock Association, testifying
before the House Judiciary Committee to
day, asserted that all competition in buy
ing cattle and bogs has been eliminated.
'The packing business is virtually all
in the hands of five companies," he said,
"and most of it is in the hand3 of two.
Armor and Swift"
Burke was appearing in favor, of the
Borland resolution, which would authorize
the Federal Trade Commission to investi
gate the alleged existence of a "beef
trust ' He? sad the phenomenal Increase
loJtfcg hMgineatt-ythe capital ana surplus
nlMMMy.rfcKr'" form, the great-
raisera,
HOLLWEG DISCLAIMS INTENT
TO VIOLATE MONROE DOCTRINE
The following1 principles of policy were expressed by Chancellor von
Bcthmann-Hollwag in a speech before the Rcichstapf today:
Germany has not intention of violating tho Monroe Doctrine or of
seeking n foothold in North or South America, and hna never had any
hstile designs against the United States.
Germany will fight tho wnr to a satisfactory finish.
Germany will continue to carry on her submarine warfare, meeting
England's nttempts to starvo her out, though with consideration' for the
legitimate rights of neutrals.
Germany will never willingly consent to tho return of Poland nnd
conquered Russian provinces to the Czar at tho conclusion of peace.
Germany contemplates tho formation after tho wnr of a "new Bel
gium" in which the rights of the Flemish-speaking residents, who nrc of
Germanic stock, shall receive tho fullest consideration.
Germany was ready to receive peace proffer September 9, but Allies
declined to treat.
VILLISTAS PRESS
TO SOUTH AS U. S.
CHASE WEAKENS
Outlaw Chief Reported 75
Miles South of Chi
huahua City
THIRTY BANDITS KILLED
Pnncho Villa is still ahead of the
chase. Reports today indicated that
the Mexican outlaw leader was con
tinuing iiis flight southward toward
tha Parral region, while his American
pursuers were skirmishing with somo
of his small bands far to tho rear.
Today ho is reported at Camargo,
five miles from Santa Rosalie, and ap
proximately 75 miles south of Chihua
hua City.
A second clash with the Villistas
occurred Saturday near San Antonio,
Mcx., and 30 of tho ban'"ts were
killed. The Tenth U. S. Cavalry, a
crack negro troop under Colonel V.
C. Brown, engaged the outlaws.
Major General Funston, admitting
that Villa has slipped tho noose, has
laid plans to strengthen tho lines of
communication, which daily aro grow
ing longer and with commensurato
danger.
Washington officials evidently do
not intend to wnit for General Car
ranza's permission to use tho Mexican
.railways to. fiupgly. .orsjjytps, ,f jorces.
jioany auo new moiorirucsB -wero or
dered for service along tho linos. It
is said tho poor condition of the Mex
ican railways makes them virtually
useless.
VILLA REPORTED HEADED
TOWARD DISTRICT OF PARRAL
SAN ANTONIO, Tcx April 5. Gen.
Frederick Funston, admitting that Villa
had escaped to the south, today declared
tho bandit chief probably was headed for
tho Parral district, with 'Very few"
American troops In pursuit.
Explaining this statement, Funston said
It was Impossible to send a considerable
body of soldlerH farther south becauso of
the necessity of protecting tho lines of
communication. Tho present available
force has been drained to meet this re
quirement. Funston himself frankly ndmltted that
a continuation of tho chase southward
must be backed up by a stronger force
than at present Is available.
In forced marches tho American cavalry
Is clenrlng Villistas from the district from
Namlqulpa to Guerrero and oven farther
south.
Mayor W. n Sample, commander here,
today expressed this belief, and that Gen.
eral Pershing's troops probably were fig
uring In blclrmlshes and running tights
with tho bandits nlmost dally.
General Pershing hemself has broken
away from advanced headquarters and
Continued on Togo l'ourteen, Column Two
MOORE HOPES FOR NEW
CUSTOM HOUSE HERE
Believes Measure Will Pass if
Omnibus Bill Is Enacted
at This Session
WASHINGTON, April G. After a hear
ing before the House Buildings nnd
Grounds Committee today Representative
J. Hampton Jloore, of Philadelphia, said
he behoves that authorization would be
given for a new custom house and site
for Philadelphia if an omnibus public
buildings bill Is enacted at this session
of Congress.
Mr. Moore appeared before the commit
tee to present arguments in support of tho
bill, proposing an appropriation of $1,000,
000 for a custom house site and J2.000.
0Q0 for the construction of the custom
house. Questions asked by members of
the committee Indicated that they do not
nvi- Hostrnntfnn nf the nresent historical
custom house. Representative Moore said
served.
"J0KEHS" ROB CIGAR STOIIK
Proprietor Receives Quarter for Two
Smokes Alter Cash Drawer Is
Emptied by Pair
Two "Jokers," beaming with smiles, en
tered the cigar btore of Hyman Wasser
man, 627 Porter fctreet, today and after
each had selected a cigar to his taste,
with a deal of fussy inquiry and argument
over the best brand, they lit their choices,
and Joking about the weather started to
leave. Hyman coughed. "Er the cigars
were a quarter," he said,
"Oh, yes, we forgot," Bald the men.
They each drew a large revplver and
leveled them at Hyman. "Open the cash
drawer," said one of the men. The pro
prietor handed over the contents.
'It was a, Joke," eald one of the men
to Wasserraan, "You bit." They handed
bun a quarter ior the. cigars and left
hold-up- was reported to the police.
M'NICHOL MAY
BOOST SUBWAY
COST MILLION
Senator to See Mayor To
day About Extra Costs
Before Resuming
HALL STATION ASSURED
Specifications That May Give
More Pay to Contractor
"Should rock bo found at greater
or less depth (than ostimntcd after
test borings) or should changes be
ordered whereby quantities will be
increased or diminished by the dif
ference in quantities computed at
the respective unit prices bid in
the proposal."
"Should the change involve work
or material of n class for which
the contract does not contain a
price the increase or diminuition of
expense will bo estimated by the
chief engineer and shall bo sub
ject to agreement between tho Di
rector and the contractor
Any change to bo made at an in
creased cost may, at the option of
the Director, be executed under a
separate contract."
Mnyor Smith nnd City Solicitor Con
nelly, In two short conferences In the
Mayor's office today, discussed the condi
tions, legal and financial, which will gov
ern tho resumption of work on tho Broad
street subway under City Hall and tho
extra payments that will have to bo made
to the KeyBtono State Construction Com
pany as nj result lot tho unforeseen prob
lems In construction to bo met by 'tho.
"onglneers. '
Mr. Connelly after tho conferences said
he had received no oITlclal request either
from the Mayor or Transit Director Twin
ing for nn opinion on the legal aspects of
tho contract He ndded, however, that no
had not yet opened his today's mall. It Is
understood ho has been asked unotllclally
for nn opinion,
Mayor Smith announced before going
to lunch that ho had uBked Director Twin
ing, City Solicitor Connelly, representa
tives of tho Keystone State Construction
Company nnd their attorneys to meet In
his oMlco at 4 o'clock this afternoon to dis
cuss tho various phases of tho question.
It Is expected thnt Senator MoNlchol, tho
head of tho Koytsono Company, which
holds tho $1,700,000 contract for tho work
under City Hall, will be ono of tho con
ferees. Xo authoritative) estimate could bo
learned today of the nmount of tho In
creased construction charged, but It was
declared by some that the coat to the city
might be Incrcnbed by almost a million
dollars. This would bring the total tlguro
close to tho $3,000,000 appropriation asked
by former Director Taylor, when Councils
were called upon to appropriate for this
portion of the work.
Senator McMehol paid today several
points will have to be determined beforo
the work can proceed, although every effort
will be made to begin work promptly as re
quested by tho Mayor yesterday. Tho
most Important thing, according to Sen
ator McNIchol, Is to devise some way to
bolster up the rubble wnll which consti
tutes tho foundation of City Hall.
No ofllclal communication t5 resume
Continued on rage Four, Column Three
CRACKSMEN ROB SAFE
IN GLENOLDEN OFFICE
P. R. R., Express Company and
Postofllce Funds Taken No
Clue to Robbers
Yeggmen, some time between 7:20
o'clock last night and 7 o'clock today,
broke Into the Pennsylvania Railroad sta
tion at Glenolden, blew open the safe with
dynamite and escaped undetected with
money and property belonging to the
Pennsylvania Railroad, Adams Express
Company and the postotllce.
So quietly and bkllfully did the crack?,
men work that they were unheard by any
one In the town Dr. William V. Elgin,
the postmaster, who lives 150 yards away
from the station, explained today that ho
heard no noise. The safe door, which was
found in the outer office, had been blown
off the safe.
No one could state the amount taken
from the safe, but it Is known that It con
tained considerable cash. All the receipts
of the railroad, collected since Sunday
evening, and a large supply of stamps and
cash belonging to the express company,
were In the safe
Statlonmaster Klrlc, when he reported
for duty at 7 o'clock today, noticed that
tho window facing the railroad tracks was
open. When he entered the station he saw
everything Inside la confusion. The safe,
which had been directly In front of the
ticket window, was minus its door.
A combined Investigation by railroad
and private detectives and government
agents Is being made today,
Pennsy Official Stricken on Street
W. C. Gushing, of Pittsburgh, chief engl-.
neer of the Pennsylvania Railroad lines
west of Pittsburgh, was stricken with
vertigo tqday at 8th and Chestnut streets.
He was on his way to the lower downtown
section after having visited the company's
offices In Broad Street Station, In a pri
vate automobile Mr Cushlng was sent to
Jefferson. Hospital, where it was said later
he was resting easily. He la 63 years eld,
FRENCH ROUT
ENEMY NEA
DOUAUMONT
Fierce Onslaught Drives
Germans From Cail-
lette Woods
TEUTON ASSAULTS FAIL
Attacks by Kaiser's Troops
Hurled Back by Terrific
Gunfire
BERLIN, April 5. French troops
have rcocctipietl a fortified mill, north
east of Haumont, on the west bank of
the iMeiise. the War Office admitted
this afternoon.
French attacks on the cast bank of
the Mouse, in Caillettc woods, broke
down with heavy losses for the
enemy, it is announced.
French troops liavo delivered n ter
rlllc counter-attack In tho Verdun sec
tor, which netted them substantial gains.
They Ituvo driven tho Oormans from
positions east of tho Mouse River and
liavo rcoccupied tho whole of Calllette
Woods, advancing to tho German com
municating trenches noith of that point.
Tho successful onslaught followed the
rcpulso by the French of four successive
nssaults south of Douaumont. So stub
born was tho French resistance nnd so
sovcro the llro of their artillery that
the German check was followed by tho
disorderly flight of tho attacking col
umns, Iarln dispatches declare
As a consequence of the French ad
vnnco, the German hold on tho vlllngo
of Douaumont has becomo perilous.
A terrific bombardment of tho Ger
man positions in tho AVoevio region Is
reported by tho Paris War Olllce. Tho
French liavo repulsed Infantry nttacks
In Lorraine.
Tho French counter-attack in tho Ver
dun sector was mado posslblo by tho
bringing up of rclnfoi cements from an
other section of tho west front, which
Is now held by British troops.
PAIUS. April E.
Tho French advance on the Verdun
front. niHt of tho Meuso ltlvcr. has driven
the Germans out of their positions In
,'CaUleUe woods The War QIIIco; In its.
olllclnl communique today, nnnouncea imu
tho French have advanced to the German
communicating trenches north of Calllette
woods.
There has been a terrific bombardment
dt tho German positions In tho Wocvre
district. West of tho Mcuse ltlvcr, on the
front northwest of Veidtin, tho night was
comparatively quiet.
Tho Germans delivered Infantry attacks
ngulust tho French positions In Lorraine
during tho night, but all wero repulsed,
tho War Ofllco states.
KRKNCH OFFICIAL STATEMENT.
The text of the ofllclal communique fol
lows: In tho Argonno there was a grcnado
battle In tho sector of Dolante. At
Fllle Morto wo blew up two mines,
which damaged tho enemy's trench.
West of tho Meuso tho night was
comparatively calm.
l'nst of tho Meuso wo have engaged
in many combats, In the course of .
which wo have advanced Into the com
municating trenches notth of Calllette
Wood.
In tho Woovre legion there was a
violent bombardment In tho sectors of
Moulainvillo and rimtlllon. Tho Ger
mans throw Into tho Meuso River
north of St. Mlhlel, 22 mines, which
exploded under our barriers without
causing any damage.
In Lorraine tho Germans, after vio
lently bombarding our positions be
tween Arracourt nnd St. Martin's,
launched numerous small Infantry at
tacks at Intervals against different
points In that sector. The enemy was
thrown back at every point by tho
Continued on I 'nee lhe Column Two
EL GENERALE ZUPELLI
LASCIA IL MMSTER0
II Gen. Morone Nuovo Ministro
della Guerra ed il Gen. Al-
fieri Sottosegretario
Un telegramma da Roma dice cho e'
stato ulllclalmento nnnuuclato cola" che II
ministro della Guerra. generate Zupelll, ed
II sottoscgretario dl Stato, generale Ella;
bauiio dato le loro dlmlsbionl che sono
state accettate. I due membrl dinitesion
aril del gabinette bono bostltuitl dal gen
erate Morone, come ministro della Guerra,
e dal generate Alflerl, coma sottosegre
tarlo dl Stato al dUcabtero della Guerra.
Telegramml da Roma dlcono che I'ltalla
sta facendo preparatlvl per uno eforzo
supremo che probabllmente dovra' essere
Inlzlato tra non molto, Sublto dopo 1'an
nunclo che la classe del 1807 sara' chta
mata quest'anna invece dell'anno venturo,
e' stato pubblicato un decreto per la
nuova vlbita del mllltarl rlformatl delle
classl del 1882. 1883, 1884 o 1885. St pre
vede che prima della. fine dell'anno In cor
so I'ltalla avra' gul teatro della guerra
tutta intera la sua forza mllltare.
- St dice che questo e' una conseguenza
della conferenza tenutaBl recentemenje a
Parigl tra 1 rappresentantl delle setto na
zlon! alleate. SI dice che glj alleatl hanno
declso dl mettere In campo tutte le loro
forze per dare 11 colpo declslvo e finale
con cut sperano dl schlacclare la potenza
mllltare della Germanla e del suol alleatl.
, ,i , ' ' '
$25,000 to Keep Atlantic City Channel
ATLANTIC CITY, April 5. Port
boosters today rejoiced over word from
Washington that Representative Bacha
rach had twen successful In keeping an
appropriation of J25.000 for the mainte
nance of Atlantic City's deep channel n
the Rivers and Harbors bill Congress
man Bacharach obtained also a J 10.000
Item for Cold Spring Harbor. For con
tinuing work on Maurice River, Bridge
ton, 5H.O0O was allowed.
i
QUICK
ITALY'S WAR MINISTER QUITS CABINET
ROHE, April 3. Minister of War Genetal Zupellt and Under
Sccvetniy for War General Elia have resigned, It was officially an
nounced today. General Morone has become Minister of "War and
General All lei i will succeed Genetal EHn,
GREEKS VACATE VILLAGES ALLIES ENTER
AXXIENS, April 5. Gicek troops evacuated the village of liar
atjouli today and it was immediately occupied by the Anglo-French
fortes. Tflit Avas in actoi dance with an ogicement. made at Saloulca.
WILL NOT PROSECUTE NORTH GERMAN-LLOYD LINE
WASHINGTON, April C Tho Investigation by tho Department of Justlco
of allegations that the North Gorman-Lloyd Lino's vessels were used to coal Ger
man warships at sea, In violation of tho neutrality laws ot tho United States,
has failed to Mud evidence) sufllclent to warrant nny notion against tho company,
It was wild today.
U. S. GETS COPIES OF BRITISH ORDERS IN COUNCIL
WASHINGTON, April G. Tho Stato Department today received from Am
bassador Pago at London tho British Ordcra In Council of March 30 which apply
tho principle of continuous passage to conditional contraband as well as to abso
lute. It Is these orders which materially affected tho American cases on cargoes,
of conditional ronttnbnnd now hold for prize court action. Tho defense prepared"
by tho American owners was based on tho assumption that conditional contra
band could be consigned to a speclllcd neutral agent In a neutral country. Tho
now Orders In Council nrc said to be rctroactlvo and to necessitate a new defenso
by. tho American lawyers.
ALLIES' FLEET DESTROYS FORTS GUARDING SMYRNA
ATHENS, April B, An Anglo-French squadron lias destroyed forts Saint
Zakl and Saint Georges at tho ontrancd to Smyrna Harbor, tho newspaper Nea
Holies reported today,
FIRE RUINS GUGGENHEIM SUMMER HOME
LONG BCACH, N. J April 5, Fire early today destroyed tho $100,000 sum
mer homo of Daniel Guggenheim In Klberon. All tho tiro apparatus along tho
coast fought tho blaze.
More pay, fewer hours, at coal tar plant
s A decrcaso of ono hour In the working day, from 10 to 9 hours, and a 11 por
cent. Increase in tho hourly Wago scale has been announced by tho Barrett Com
pany, manufacturers of coal tar products at 30th street and Gray's Ferry ave
nue. Tho plant employs about 300 men. Tho now scalo went Into effect today.
GERMAN LOAN PAYMENTS REACH $1,426,250,0011 '
BERLIN, April 5. Tho Instalments paid on tho fotjrth ' German war loan
had reached C,705,00O,P00 nwka;(f lM.nso.Oo'on'ncConlljiK to-a-statement issued by
tho Overseas News Agency , ' - '
GERMANS PLAN NIGHTLY AIR RAIDS ON LONDON
LONDON, April G. -Tho Berlin papers now emphaslzo the fact that the new,
Zeppolln raids mean tho beginning of tho most actlvo warfare on England, de
manded by tho main committee of tho Reichstag. Count von Itovcntlovv makes
this point fn tho Tagcszeltung and urges that- tho Zeppolln raids mako every night
ono of terror for Londoners.
SOUTH TO FIGHT CHILD LABOR BILL IN SENATE
"WASHINGTON. .Anrll B. Tho Konflncr.nwnn nMM iw unt ,!
" - --r ..- .tvi uuui M4li bUUllJT VfUO; IVW
ommonded for passage by tho Sonato Interstate Commerce Commission, but a
rough courso apparently looms ahead for it. Southern Senators told committee
members they would opposo an early place on tho calender and, If defeated, would
4uuuaiu UnUllldl it.
MUST FREE GERMANS TAKEN ON U. S. SHIP
WASHINGTON, April fi. Counsellor Polk, of tho Ftite Department, today
notified Ambassador Spring-Rice, of Great Britain, that the BUtlsh Government
must releubo. tlio 38 German civilians taken off tho American steamship China
near Shanghai or prove that they were engaged In bomo bolllgerent act against
England. Tho British Ambassador called at the Stato Department and had an
hour's conferenco with the counsellor.
AID ASKED TO REMOVE CHESTNUT ST. TROLLEY POLES
A movement by the Chestnut Street Business Men's Association to remove
tho trolloy poles on that thoroughfare is under way. Tho Philadelphia Rapid
Transit Company has agreed to removo the poles nnd bear tho expenso Jf. the
property .owners would nllow tho supporting wires to bo attached to buildings.
Each;blocU Is being canvassed and the consent of each owner Is belne Bought,
Thfi bUSlnOSS mOn Wont fbn nnlna nmnmrl , - 1 .. il. . .
, .. .,.., ., 4,w,vw .W...U.UU en, tu n, ucuumy uiu Direct
CANADA TO DROP MUNITIONS SCANDAL
OTPAWA, April 5. The demand of Sir Wilfred Laurier, Opposition leader,
for investigation by a parliamentary committee of all purchases and contracts
of tho Canadian shell committee was voted down In the Houso of Commons
last night. Tho Government majority was reduced to 38, four of its followers
voting with tho Laurier forces and a number absenting themselves from the
division.
ATVTI-ZEPPELIN DEFENSES DECLARED SUCCESSFUL
LONDON, April 5 Under Secretary Tennant stated In the .House of Com
mon the new management for the defense of London uud tho munitions estab
lishments in and a.ound tho city from aerial nttacks had proved, very successful.
Jloro than one attack, he eald, had been thwarted without the people of London
being aware of It, Mr. Tennant bald it was Impossible to establish to a cer
tainty who wa3 responsible for bringing down the Zeppelin L-1B. which was
wrecked during Friday night's raid and fell In the Thames estuary. Ha addtjtf
It is believed hits had been made by different batteries.
FRANCE ASKED TO SEND 150,000 ORPHANS HERE
PARIS, April 5. A remarkable proportion has been made to send 159,000
war orphans to the United States, where a, number of families have expressed,
their willingness to adopt them on a payment of 10 centq a day for upkeep.
An equally remarkable objection to 'the fultilrhent o( this scheme is nqw adt
vanced. It is declared that-France cannot suffer such a serious drain on her
child population. It is alsq asserted that in any case children cannot be, properly
cared for at 10 cents a day.
1 i
GUATEMALAN REBELS CUT TO PIECES
MEXICO CITY, April 5. Travelers just arrived from the Guatemalan borfe
say that a forca Of Estrada Cabrera's
the frontier Into Chiapas 10 days ago
forces to pieces at a point about half
Gutierrez then returned tp Guatemala
dispersed revolutionary forces In the Chiapas Mountains. The rebels had
under Generals Prado and Romano and
border, having occupied several small
"READY FOR LONG WAR,"
PETRQ3RAD, April 5. The new
nouncea he intends to concentrate, his
clent equipment to gain a victory over
war, but declares Russia caa s-.yy.2mt
NEWS
regulars under General Gutlerres crossed i
and cut the Guatemalan revolutionary
way between Tapachula and' Tuxt!-.
with a number of prisoners, leaving ih
were operating ust inside the Guatep
towns.
SAYS CZAR'S MINIS1
War Minister General Choujl
efforts on providing1 the artnyj
Germany. The, Minister prej
men and meaua to last to
I
I
'it
im
