\i
THIS PAPER issued in
Two Sections Section
two—Pages 1 to 8—Lo
cal news, stories, corre
spondence and Denison
locals.
VOL. 51
MEET DEATH
FOR SPYING
Chas. Schroeder and His Son, Lou,
Convicted of Spying and Are
Sentenced to be Shot.
ARE WELL KNOWN IN DENISON
Moved to Canada From Crawford
County Twelve Years Ago—
Relatives in This County.
It is reported that Chas. Schroeder
and son, Lou, former residents of
Crawford county, who moved from
their farm, south of Denison about
twelve years ago and located on a
farm near Clavet, Sask., Canada, were
(convicted in March by the Canadian
bfficials for spying and condemned to
death. Mr. Schroeder is a brother-in
law of Messrs. Richard, Allen and W.
Johnston, of this city, and of Mrs.
AVm. Mullenger, who lives south of
Denison.
A telephone conversation with Mrs.
Mullenger this morning brought out
the fact that the Canadian authorities
notified Ml. Geo. Johnston, a brother
in-law of Mr. Schroedei who resides
at Lake City, that Mr. Schroeder. to
gether with his son, had been impris
oned, charged with being spies, and
after being tried were convicted and
condemned to be shot. The father
was to be shot at sunrise on the morn
ing of Friday, March 24th. and the son
two or three days later. Mrs. Mullen
ger stated-that she has received no
further word from Canada and is loath
to believe that the sentence was car
ried out or she would have heard from
her sister.
Mr. Schroeder was a resident of
Crawford county for many years, com
ing hero from Germany. He farmed
for a number of years south of Deni
son and some twelve years ago moved
to Canada.
Denison people who own land in
Saskatchewan, Canada, and who take
newspapers published in that province
say that a number of Germans have
been arrested
from
time to time,
charged with* sending information to
the German government, but that they
have not known of a single instance
where the penalty was death, but has
been imprisonment for the length of
the war. The friends of the Schroed
er family are in hopes that there is
no truth to the report that they were
sentenced to be shot.
Miss Hattie Hall visited her sisters.
Mrs. H. D. Jones and Mrs. L. H. Bas
sett, in Schleswlg the past week
DAMAGE CASE NEXT WEEK
Suit of Wright 6 Kinney vs Renfro &
Lewis, Growing Out of Collapse
of Building, to be Tried
District court is grinding away on
the second week of the term. Last
week was devoted to equity business,
but on Monday the law calendar was
taken up and the remainder of the
term will be devoted to the trial of
jury cases. The equity cases disposed
of during last week were not of suffi
cient importance to attract much at
tention.
The motion foV a new trial in the
case of Jahn vs Jahn, growing out of
the probate of the will of Claus Jahn,
was submitted to the court on Friday
last and no doubt will be disposed of
before the term closes.
The jury case brought on for trial
Monday is a contest between members
of the Uoan family, the principal ques
tion in the case being as to whether
a common law marriage was had be
tween parties interested in the case.
The next case for trial is that of
Powell Supply Company, of Omaha,
vs Patterson & Campbell, of West
Side, and grows out of a transaction
had between the Omaha house and
Patterson & Campbell, wherein cer
tain merchandise was sold to the West
Side parties. This case will probably
occupy but little time and later on
during the week the case growing out
of the collapse of the Wright and Kin
ney building will be up for trial.
It is somewhat of a hardship on
farmers to require them to remain
here for jury service at a time when
they are anxious to be in their fields
putting in their crops. Fortunately,
the term will be a short one and by
the middle of the month the work of
the jury will be over.
Mr. Sears McHenry, who left Den
ison last Friday for Bredenbury,
Sask., Canada, writes Denison rela
tives that he was in Winnepeg dur
ing the big riot between the soldiers
and the police. Soldiers were rush
ing about the city looking for foreign
ers, while the police officers were do
ing their best to protect them from
violence. Mr. McHenry wrote that
foreigners were requested to keep
off the streets, but that he found no
difficulty in going about the city.
A small blaze at the college dormi
loiV called out the fire department
Saturday morning about 10 o'clock. A
spark from the chimney started a
small blaze, which fortunately Was
discovered before it made much head
way and was extinguished before the
fire apparatus arrived on the scene.
The fire apparatus was rushed to the
scene in record breaking time, the
hose cart and chemical wagon being
hauled out by automobiles.
has
Money-Saving Sale in
Offering new trimmed hats in greater values than ever before for this week Thurs_
day, Friday and Saturday at $2.95, $3.95 and $4.95. More lovely hats you have never
seen at such prices. Our range of style selection is larger than ever before. All the very
newest features are now being offered in our exclusive Millinery Style Shop.
Menagh's Store
I ....
THE FISCAL YEAR
DECLARED CLOSED
Last Yeai*'3 City Council Met Mon
day Morning and Wound Up Bus
iness for the Fiscal Year.
NEW COUNCILMAN SWORN IN
New Appointments of the Mayor Not
Acted Upon at the Monday Night
Meeting of the Council.
No, gentle reader, those little yel
low slips of paper that are being dis
played by the different members of the
city council are not Belgium flags:
they simply represent the sum of $50
as salary for the faithful attendance
upon sixty-eight meetings of the coun
cil held during the year 1915. And
many of those meetings lasted well in
to the small hours of the- morning.
The last meeting of the Denison city
council l'or the fiscal year that closed
April 1st. was held Monday morning
at 9 o'clock, and was as peaceful as a
summer day, being featureless with
speeches or arguments which might
tend to check the wheels of progress
in any way or form. Every member
except.Dr. Simpson was present at the
meeting when the gavel of Mayor
Laub fell, and at once the members
proceeded to get busy with the trans
action of the city's affairs.
Apparently the most,important part
of the business was the issuing of the
salaries to the different city officials,
as after this was done it did not- take
long to wind up the 1915 business and
declare the year closed. This being
done, Justioe of the Peace H. T. Blies
man appeared and administered the
oath of office to Mayor-oleet W. H.
Laub. Tiie mayor gracefully accepted
the office and proceeded to administer
the oath of office to Councilman-elect
Ben Pautsch.
After the organization had been per
fected a motion prevailed that the
council proceed to the appointment of
a clerk. There were no applications,
but E. F. Tucker, the* encumbent for
the past number of years,,was unani
mously chosen for the enduing term.
After the selection of a clerk, the of
fice of city solicitor was filled by the
appointment of T. V. Walker, who has
held the office for some time to^ the
satisfaction of the council. Following
usual preliminaries, adjournment was
had until 7:30, and the council met
with Assessor H. A. Norman and pro
ceeded to canvass the books of that
official'.'
The evening session of the council
was quite largely attended by spec
tators and those having business be
fore the council. One of the first acts
of the new council was to instruct the
1
DENISON REVIEW
THIS WEEK'S NEWS THIS WEEK, NOT NEXT WEEK.
DENISON, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 1916.
fire chief to purchase a '•Smokeless
Helmet" for the use of the firemen.
This is a device to1 be wohi by one
entering a building where liiere is a
large amount of smoke. There were
tiie usual number of permits granted
to plumbers, builders of sewers and
workers on the water mains. These
permits were granted after tiie bonds
of the different petitioners had been
approved.
At the evening meeting tv/o appoint
ments were made by the council, W.
T. Wright was appointed city physi
cian and Frank Woolston city engi
neer. The mayor at this time aisoj
made known his appointments, as fol
lows: Marshal, A. C. Weeks deputy
marshal. M. .T. Burke ni iit\vatcli, A.
f'. Greene, and street commissioner.
N. P. Cavett. It has been usual for
the council to act upon these appoint
ments, either in favor or against ap
proving their bonds, Inst there was no
action taken Monday evening, and the
appointments will come up at a later
meeting.
The mayor, however, made appoint
ments of the following' committees,
and these appointments will stand dur
ing the coming year:
Street and Alley: H. Hayes, H. W.
Moeller, J. H. Taram,
Electric Light: J. If. Tamm, Tlios.
Nielsen, .r. H. Hayes.
Water: Ben Pautsch, H. W. Moeil
e:\ J.'l-r. Tamm.
Nuisance: H. W. Moeller, J, H.
Hayes. Ben Pautscln
Auditing: Tlios.. Nielsen. .1. H.:
Tamm, H. W. Moeller. .1. II. Hayes,
Ben Pautsch.
Park Commission: Mayor W. II.
Laub. Tlios. Nielsen and \V. C. Rol
lins.
A petition was presented, signed by
the property owners abutting tiie al
ley running between Nassau and Wall
streets, asking that the alley be put
in suitable condition for travel.' This
was referred to the street and alley
committee for investigation. A peti
tion was also presented by the prop
erty owners on the ^ast side of Main
street, asking l'or a fire plug in the
alley next to Xfr. Flinn's barn, to bo
used for fire purposes only. This pe
tition was referred to the council as
a whole for investigation.
The usual monthly bills were pre
sented for payment, and after having
been audited by the finance commit
tee were ordered paid.
The board of equalization lias been
in session the past two days, goii»g
over the assessor's books. There were
very few changes made, however,
from the assessor's igarkiiigs and lihe
board adjourned last veniftg'Ta*meet
again Thursday, April 12th. At that
meeting those few whose assessments
have been raised may appear and make
objections as to why the assessment
shohld not stand as raised.
Opening Week of Menagh's Money-Saving Sale
Our Mr. David Menagh is now in the eastern market and advises us to make this week, the greatest
week in the history of our business. In order to do this we must offer inducements in prices as 6ur
garments are conceded by all the best-dressed women of Denison and Crawford county to be the
most stylish and up-to-date. Our reputation we have always maintained and always will. So, for
this week, we offer pur entire stock of women's suits, coats and dresses at a discount of 21 per cent.
Do you realize what this means? It means that garments marked to retail at $25 will cost you for
this week less than $20. It means that the $30 or $35 suit, coat or dress that you were looking at
come within your limit during the first week of Menagh's Money-Saving Sale.
All $25.00 suits for this week at $19.75.
All $27.50 suits for this week $21.73.
All $30.00 suits for this week $23.70.
21 per cent off on all women's coats and dresses and, in fact, all women's apparel for this week.
DROWNED IN
WATERING TANK
Byr,on Ross, the Sixteen Months Old
Son of M's. and Mrs. T. A. Har
vey, Metts Death Saturday
TANK CONTAINED 16 IN. WATER
Physiiians Work Over Body for An
Hour, but All Efforts Were in
Vain Life Had Departed.
Orio of the saddest deaths that has
ever occurred in this community
Byron Ross Rogers was born Nov.
24, 1914, and leaves to mourn his death
two brothers. Glenn and Merlin, and
two sisters, Gracie and liuth.
The sudden death was a great shock
to Mr. and Mrs. Harvey, who are not
yet recovered from the great loss.
Funeral services were held at the fam
ily home Monday afternoon at 2
o'clock. Rev. J. L. Boyd, pastor of the
Methodist' Episcopal church, officiat­
A1I$19.50 suiis for this week at $15.51.
••••','•'
wa3
that of Byron Ross Harvey, the little
sixteen months old son of Mr. and
.Mrs. T. A. Harvey, residing two
miles west of Denison, who accident
ally fell into the watering tank in the
yard of die home on last Saturday af
ternoon about 3:30 o'clock and was
drowned. Mr. Harvey left home about
3 o'clock for Denison and as it was
such a nice afternoon Mrs. Harvey
bundled up the children and allowed
them to play in the yard. They were
running in and out of the house, telt
ing their mothc-r the fun they were
having playing in the sand pile, it
was not until 3:30 that Mrs. Harvey
failed to notice the little boy about
the yard and. becoming alarmed, she
started out to find him. After a thor
ough search of the premises she hap
pened to pass' by the steel watering
tank that was •banked up with earth
on the sides to keep it from freezing,
and there, lying on the top of the wa
ter. she found the little fellow. A small
tin cup was lying nearby and it is sup
posed the child was reaching over in
to the tank dipping out water when he
lost his balance and toppled over into
tiie tank, which contained about 16
inches of water. A physician was
called from Denison, who rushed to
the Harvey home, and for over an
hour worked over the little body in
hopes of resuscitating it, but life had
departed, probably at the first shock
of the cold \\ater. Mr. Harvey, who
was walking to Denison, was intercept
ed by a neighbor, who told him of the
terrible accident,' and lie was taken
back home in a machine. It is' the
opinion of the attending '.physician
that the little boy had not been in the
water more than ten minutes and that
the shock caused instant death.
ing, after which interment was made
in Oakland cemetery.
The Review joins with the many
friends in extending heartfelt sym
pathy to tiie bereaved family in their
sorrow.
ELECT TEACHERS
School Board Holds Meeting and
Elects New Teachers for Ensuing
Year—Four Vacancies Later,
The school board held a meeting on
Monday evening of this week at the
office of W. C. Rollins, secretary of
the board, at which time teachers were
elected for the coming year. All of
the present teachers with the excep
tion of four, made application for re
election, those not applying beina
Frank Ransom, Miss Blanid Lallv
Miss Mae Smith and Miss Mildred
Bowen.
Much of the success of the Denison
public schools is due to the fact that
the board does not make changes in
the teaching force any oftener than is
absolutely necessary. Every applicant
is thoroughly investigated before be
ing elected and we can safely say that
there is not a city in the state the
aize of Denison which has a more effi
cient corps of teachers than we have.
The four vacancies in the schools
will' be filled at some future meeting
of the board.
The teachers who were elected for
the coming year are as follows:
Supt. C. E. Humphrey, J. J. Johnson,
Albert Weiss. Frank L. Lynch. Fanny
B. Hay^s, Fay Chamberlin, S. E. El
liott, Lillian Miller, Mariasna Sims.
Jenna Strahan, Harriet Hall, Susan
Craft, Heclwig Brodersen, Winifred
Wright, Myrtle McAhren, Willetta
Strahan, Edna Raine. Mabel Kelly,
Gertrude Latchaw. Effie Norris, Alice
James, D. Verne Stocking, Margaret
McHenry and Inez Lally.
In another column of the paper the
statement of the Crawford County
State bank appears this week and from
it it appears that the bank is main
taining its usual reputation for the
amount of business transacted by it.
It is most remarkable that the banks
in Denison are able to make the show
ing they do. It indicates a healthy
condition and shows that the people of
Crawford county are prospering in a
financial way. The last statement is
one of the best the Crawford County
State bank has made in all of its his
tory.
,T. W. Mills and family, who have
•been living at Logan, movqd to Deni
son the first.of the week and are oc
cupying their residence just north of
the M. E. Jones home. Their manv
friends are glad to welcome them back
to Denison aud trust that they will
make this their permanent home.
mmmmmsmmmmm
Millinery Department
For the first week of our April money-saving event we offer 100 high class, ultra-
fashionable, chic and smart women's headwear at unneard of prices. Not a hat in this
lot would sell for less than $5.00 and values up to $8.00 are included.
Millinery Department, Second Floor.
Menagh's Store
If you know of any
news kindly hand or
phone the Review News
department.
No. 14.
NICHOLSON PLANT
REORGANIZES
The Nicholson Produce Company Has
Changed the Firm Name to the
Nicholson lce .& Produce Co.
B. Y. NICHOLSON GEN. MANAGER
Arrangements Made With Large Pro
duce Dealers to Buy Entire
Production of Plant.
The Nicholson Produce company has
reorganized under the name Nichol
son Ice & Produce company. Addi
tional capital has been put into the
business with a view of extending the
territory and increasing the business
in every department. Arrangements
have been made with large produce
dealers in Chicago and eastern mar
kets to buy the production of the plant,
tvhich will enable the Nicholson Ice
& Produce company to make a good
home market the year round for the
poultry, eggs and cream produced in
territory surrounding Denison. It will
be tlue aim of the new company to in
crease its efficiency in every depart
ment -which will assure the best of
service to its patrons and enable those
in the business to get the very best
returns on produce. Mr. B. Y. Nich
olson will continue as general man
ager.
The plant was established many
years ago, but it was not until 1908
that the large storage plant, which is
GOxSO feet and five stories in height,
including the basement, was erected.
While the plant conducted as it has
been has drawn a large trade from all
directions and from a large district,
the prediction is made that under the
new organization a largely increased
trade will be drawn from a territory
extending far beyond anything in the
past. The increased facilities and the
adoption of modern and scientific
methods will insure a large increase
in trade.
The business is in the territory trib
utary to Denison and all it needs is a
plant of sufficient capacity, to reach
out for it and under the new organiza
tion it is expected that with the in
creased capacity and facilities for
handling produce that the best ot re
sults will be secured. This will not
only benefit -the company, but it will
also 'benefit the community.
Advertisements run in the Review
are read by more Crawford county
people than wheil placed in any other
newspaper. The Review's thorough
circulation is appreciated by business
men who are after results in newspa
per advertising.
'-.•CM
•1
I
\*l
"ds
1-1
5
*1
tfi}
