WEATHER p
MARKETS
Ht YORK CITV
Averaqe price of cop
per for week ending
March 29, 26.50.
u
Arizona
FAIR Warmer.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, APRIL 5, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
VOL.18, NO. 267.
II OF VILLISTA POL
1
ft
m -ft
1
I
Second American Victory Brings Little Joy to Army People
NEWS RECEIVED
Demonstrations That Follow
ed First Encounter with
Mexicans is Not Repeated
Upon Publication of Facts.
SUCH ENGAGEMENTS
MAY BE EXPECTED
Doubts As to Presence of Lea
der Are Expressed arid Diffi
cujfies to Be Surmounted
Are Many.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
EL PASO, April 4. The news that
the Villistas had suffered a second de
feat at the hands of the American
troops, this time at Aguas Calientes.
thirty miles northeast of Guerrero,
was received here today in a markedly
sober manner compared with the ela
tion over the first blow struck by Col.
Podd last Wednesday. Confirmation
of the news that Villa hirnseslf is far
to the south, approaching Parral, had
materially lessened interest in the act
ual pursuit and diverted it once more
to the railroad problem, which army
officers here admit is rapidly becom
ing acute. Thw is frank scepticism
In army clix-les here over General
pprshing's ability to push much furth
er into Mexico without the aid of the
railroads.
CALMLY; WORK
HIS OKLY
BEGUN
It is pointed out that thejents of the section, seeking to enlist
number of men required to guara inn support of senators who had not final
present 300 miles or more of coram u-. y decided on tbir stand. Senator
nications is out oi an piopo-""" ,
-i.
the total number of troops at General
Pershing's disposal. Even if General
Fuhston is able to get me reiniorce-
ments he has asked for. the problem )
will still be a most serious one. uru ,lneir position uuring tne aay. . j
is awaited from Washington as to the) The only vote taken was that which
oulcome of the negotiations pending
w ith General Carranza as it is felt j Senator Sterling of South Dakota, pro
that some solution must be found to viding that the national guard should
the situation without any great delay, j be first called on for service, by the
An Americsn mining man. who has federal government in the event of
lived for years in the section of the I war. coming first after tile regular ar
country where Villa is now believed to,niy in order of precedence. There was
ro. summed no the general feeling in.no roll call. Senator Chamberlain
the refugee colony here when he said:
"If Villa has got into the country back
of Satevo it makes little difference
whether the American columns are at
his heels or not. He cpn wave his hat
at his pursuers and disappear into the
our.tains where he couldn't be over
taken in years. That country is an
ideal one for fugitives. It is full of
convons, caves, and every kind of nat
ural advantage for the bandits, water
is plentiful and food easy to find. The
only chpnee General Parshing had waa
to cut Villa off from the south. If ha
has failed in doing this it will take
an army of 100,000 men to search the
country between Parral and Torreon."
At th same time the high hopes
which were aroused by the reports
that Villa was seriously wounded have
not been entirely abandoned. In spite
of circumstantial contradictions from
several sources the story of Villa hav
ing been shot was reneated here today
in a messaee General Gavira of Juarea
is said to have received from General
Luis Gutierrez, Carranza's field com
mander, in an Associated Press dis
pn'ch from Torreon.
The telegnmi made public by Gen
emt Gavira follows:
"Villa is fleeing, seriously wounded.
He has divided his main body into
xpverel s-ra" bands taking different
directions. The Chihuahua state com
mander has divided his forces also.
General Herreta. near Bustillos; Gen
eral Cavazos is pursuing bandits from
the rer and ought to have reached
them today: General Benjamin Garza
Is reported nearing Satevo; General
Valdonado pnd Colonels Jesus Her
nandez and Clemente Castaneda, with
Fiiflficient troops, s'arted today to oc
cupy Naica Santa Gertrudis and near
tv points in order to cut off any ban
dits who go in that direction."
The Torreon dispatch said that per
sons arriving there from Santa Rosalia
said that Villa had been at Naica, nine
ty miles southeast of Guerrero, three
days ago and that he had killed Nicol
is Perz. a former handit. A man who
said he had seen the bandit chief as
serted that he was so badly injured
that he had to be supported on his
horse bv two soldiers, one on each
side of him.
Six Mexicans, accused of a plot to
start a revolution in Juarez. hav been
rrdered shot tomorrow morning by
General Gavira. According to the Mrx !
ican authorities the plot originated in
(Continued on Page 6)
VOLUNTEER PLAN
OF ARMY BILL
STILL MUCH
IN DOUBT
Senate Adjourns Taking No
Vote on the Measure. Par
ty Lines Are Obliterated in
the Debates.
SENATE
Met at noon. Continued con
sideration of army reorganization
bill.
HOUSE
Met at 11 a. m. Debate on Riv
ers and Harbors bill resumed.
Voted down all amendments to
the Rivers and Harbors bill, con
sidering of which will be resumed
next Thursday.
Recessed at 5 p. m. until S p. ni.
for night session on unopposed
private bills.
SENATE
Recessed at 5:45 p. m. to noon
Wednesday.
WASHINGTON. April 4. The fate
of the. federal volunteer plan of ths
Senate army Increase bill was in doubt
tonight when the Senate recessed af
ter an all day debate over an amend
ment by Senator Lee of Maryland, toi
strike out the provision. At the last
moment Chairman Chamberlain asked
that the vote be deferred until tomor:
row on account of the absence of a
auniber cf senators. . . . - .
Throughout the day meetings were
I held by both the advocates and oppon-
, : t. ... o. .
L.ce niuea in m ngni uy oenacor ,
Lewis of Illinois, while Chamberlain .
and his endorsers were active for their I
till and conferred frequently with Re-
publicans. Several senators chanced
defeated an amendment ofTered by
pointed out that the existing law upon
which the volunteer army proposal is
jtounaea aneaay contained lms supu-
:
In the course of the debate Senator
Borah of Idaho attacked the scheme
to federalize the national guard as
nronosed in both' the House and Sen- '
ate army bills. He called attention to !
the West Virginia coal strike, declar-
ing that the actions of the constitution
of the state and of the United States '
had been set aside, when military of-
ficers tried those accused of crimes.
To place the guard on the federal pay
roll, he said, waa extending encourage
frent to its use by state officials for which has been the subject of election after Having neia onice ior
purposes outside their rights. much speculation, McKenna said the ; four ydars. Returns also indicated
He insisted that the efTect of the j government had not yet been convert-; the election of the entire Republican
(Continued on Page Five.) ' (Continued on Page 6 ticket with the exceptions of the can-
. i jdid.-Mes in the ninth wards. These
werp conceded the Democrats by the
Representations to Carranza Have Been j'a? .X" he most
Renewed With Use of Railroads Object Two police commissioners. James S.
' Lapiley and Col free! A. Lamb, Demo
(By Review Leased Wire.) suing them through San Atnonio. The crats. were remanded to the county
WASHINGTON, April 4 Coincident message said natives from Chihuahua jnj by Judge Clarence A. Burney of
with the receipt tonight of news that, had told of from thirty to forty out- the circuit court, for contempt after
American troops again had ciasneti
with a force of Villa bandits near
Guerrero, it was learned at the State
Department that the United States
had renewed its representations to
General Carranza regarding the ship
ments of supplies to General Pershing
over the Mexican railroads.
A dispatch sent Sunday instructed
Special Agent Jno. L. Rogers at
Queretaro, to urge the head of the de
facto government to fullfill immedi
ately his promise given last week to
permit commercial use of the rail
roads by the American expedition.
Action has been delayed on account
of absence of orders from Carranza
to his subordinates.
With General Pershing's lines of
communication constantly lengthen
ing, as evidenced today by a report
of the hunt for Villa extending further
southward and the announcement that
additional troops had been sent into
Mexico, the War Department advised
the State Department that It was es
sential that arrangements for the use
of the railroads be rushed.
News of Saturday's fight first reach-
ed Washington late today in press
dispatches. Goneral Funston trans-'
mitterf a Hinntrh from General ner I
ghing dated today, at field hesdquart-
ers, reporting that Col. Brown bad
encountered a Villa band and was pur-1
PHOENIX
(Special to The Peview.)
PHOENIX. April 4. Peter Corpe-.tcin, w!io since !h i'doption of
the commission form of government lias ber-n a ir.smiMT, was today
vie-cted mayor of the e ity over George 1". Young, the present incum
bent by a majority of 4::G. James Jom di feat od Claude Cisney for
a member of the the city commission. The electors of the city voted
to extend a franchise to the Tucson. Phoenix jind Tidewater Rail
road for two ye:;rs. The vote or. the mutter watt 213 to 100.
The present election lias been one of hottest in the history of
Phoenix. Since the adoption of the enmmi-ision fotni of government
Phoenix has been in hot water most of the time. Praci!.-ally during
the entire tenure of office hy Mayor Venn;? that official has been
lined up against the members of the commission.
ET
TO BE RAISED
IN BRIT AIN
Chancellor of Exchequer, Mc
Kenna, Asks Commons to
Endorse Budget Amount
ing to 25 Million Dollars.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LONDON. April !. -Pa ou 1 y tha
problem of financing for another year
of war costing Great Britain CD.OOO,
000 daily, the chancellor of the ex
chequer, Reginald McKenna, was met
at the outset by two favorable cir
cumstances, namely, that owing to the
expansive power of British trade, the
revenue for the year exceeded the
estimated revenue by 27.000.000,
while the year's expenses were .C3f...
000,000 below the estimate. By im-
posing new taxes ' on amusements.
railroad tickets, matches and mineral
waters, and raising a number of old
taxes, including those on excess war
profits. Incomes, sugar, cocoa, coffee
and motor cars, the chancellor esti-
mates that he will be able to rai.-e
ahnilf nnft nnn i,i,h i 0,.-i
Inllh,e .h ' ' ,hn,.1
could , bv tnjg !
M tnp clMe of aQ abIf and ,uri(,
speech in the House of romll)onii. ox.
pMniat, tne Ereatest budget in the
worIll-8 hi8t0ry. the chancellor made
an interesting comparison with Ger-
CO
0
man finances, declaring that while Today the Democrat,, carried 21
Great Britain was raising more than wards, th" Socialists one and the re
300,000,000 annually by taxation, the publicans but !4. There are 35 hold
secretary of the German imperial over alderman and with the lineup
treasury. Dr. Helferriscii, was doubt- revised to date the democrats came
ful of an increase of 45.000,000. wt(Mn four wards of wresting control
Explaining his financial methods, Mr. cr the ciiy council from their rivals.
McKenna indicated his desire to avoid 1 nr tht. Rmihtin elected ten were
anything requiring new sacrifices and
ne desired to distribute the necessary
uururns iainy over tue w noie country.
He said he wa3 aware of no historical)
parallel in other countries for the
willingness displayed by the people of
Great Britain In submit i hpprfiillv to
the tax gatherers' exactions, but it
would be a mistake, he added, to
drive this spirit too hard. For
stance, he said, he was for an effec-
live increase iu the fax on war profits.
because he considered this would have
the effect of restricting trading. !
On the Question of the ceneral tar-
laws being killed, but that this lacked j
confirmation from official sources. j ns issued to compel them to release
This news was accepted as indie at--::oo men held at police headquarters.
Ing that Villa, who. according to charges were made that the nien held
State Department advices, is far he- werP arrested prevent them from
low Guerrero, heading for Parral, has1,
left his command broken into several; The commissioners were released
groups, to occupy the Americans. ' shortly after the polls closed after
while he flees to the south, with a,j,avinK hePn jn jail more han three
small body of followers. .hours. They are to hear the contempt
jclierges tomorrow.
COL. DODD WITH COMMAND. j Twentv-one attaches of police head
WASHINGTON. April 4 A report narers including Captain Flahive. acl
from General Funston today disposed in of m,iiPe. and J L. Ghent.
I of recent circulated rumors that Col.
Dodd was not with his troops In tlie ill0 ,,01It un(Ir simnar charges. Cap
attack on Villa's main command on t(lin fhive was the onlv one remand
March 29. The mesagse said: ; ,.rt , jai, T,, f.,arKes against the
"Troops engaged at Guerrero with oIl( ettifn probablv will be dropped, it
Villistas were commanded in person was nj j
by Colonel Dodd." KigMeen of ,he men arrested and
No details concerning the number he,(, B lav for investisal lon ert,
of additional soldiers s.nf into Mevi- on,er,.d rele-,Md at 6 o'clock. This
co were mane puntic. dui it was
learned that they were detachments
of the Twentieth and Twenty-fourth
infantry. Earlier reports that the
Fifth Cavalrv had gone across were
not confimed. The infnntrv moved
n two days aso. but censorship alon;
the border kept the fact secret
Death nf Annthnr hnnriit lonHpr
General Nicolas Morales, and allv of
the famous Arrieta brothers in Duvaii-
(Continued on Page Five.)
y .y,
CITY ELECTION.
CITY ELECTIONS
HELD OVER THE
Democrats Win in Chicago;
Republicans in Kansas City;
, Social Democrats - in Mil
waukee. Honors Even.
(Bv Review Leasee Wire.)
KANSAS CITY, Mo.. April 4. Geo.
Edwards. Republican, was elected may
or of Kansas City today by 8,160 voles
according to the unofficial count com
plete. Hp defeated Mayor Henry L.
Jones. Democrat, who was seeking re
election. The vote announced tonight
was: Edwards, :t0.S16! Jones. 11.658.
Edwards was pledged in his platform
to submit to the people for their ap-
I"oval a "arier emooaying a sniipii-
t!e !orl11 OI government ior me cnj.
As a result of today s election which
practically was a cleansweep, for the
Ke-ji;blMrsn -twVwt th U. ;.ublican
have half of the sixteen members
"r 'he t'pper house of the city council,
eleven of the 16 members of the. lower
house and all tlie city s administrative
rlTicinls
nilCAfiO.
Vnril 4. Democrats
scored heavily in today's aldermanic
elpc.ion(! ia ,hf 35 wurd8 r lhe ri,y.
A year ago the democrats carried
t ut -even wards and Wm. H. Thomp-
son war. elected r.iavor bv 147.477 ma-
joniy.
fnr Thompson, the o'iiers belonged to
th anti-Thompson faction in the city
a
,Tf?0UBLf ,P? KANSA CITY
KANSAS CITY. April 4. Returns
tonight from more than half the pre-
nuns oi uie ciiy inuicaieu tnai ueo.
-1
in-.. tuwams. uepuuuran. a riri.(
mayor tnrtay by approximately 600
' votes. His election was conceded by
the Democratic central committee
which conducted the campaign or
.Mayor Henry 1. Johns, who sought re-
having ignored writs of habeas cor-
r),i(.f of detectives, also were brought
gave them 30 minutes in which to vote
Others were admitted to bond after
the polls clo.ved.
FORD LEADS IN MICHIGAN
DETROIT. Anil 4 With than
one third of the voting precincts in
Michigan heard from. W. A. Smith of
Gand Rapids, had overcome a lar?
r,art of th' rlurality which Wayne and
(Continued on Page 5)
IjWETS AND DRYS
I DIVIDE MANY
: HONORS IN
i VOTING
l
Bloomington and Lockport,
Illinois, Goes Wet Moline
Wauchegan Go Dry. Wo
men Are Factors in Voting.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
CHICAGO. April 4. Important
cities were won by both wets and
iliys iu today's local option election.
Majorities were not large in auy case.
.Moline and Wsuchegan voted to
oust saloons, while Ulooinington and
Lockport. after two years of prohibi
tion, voted for the return of saloons.
Nearly all the other towns In which
local options were held remained
either wet or dry as they had been
before The largest city in the clash
was Rock Island.
The voting dry of Moline was a
clear victory for the women as the
men rolled up a large majority in
favor of retaining saloons. Men to
the number of 3.658 voted for saloons,
while 3.240 women voted against
liquor selling. Only 1.674 women vot
ed for saloons as against 2,330 men.
A town that reversed the women of
.Moline was East Dubuqun where most
of the female voters favored the wets.
!n Cook County, Proviso township,
which included nine villages, voted
wet. Wheeling township did likewise.
Dbwners, Grove township, including
the villages of Dowers Grove and
Hinsdale, in Dupage County, remain
ed dry.
IN NEBRASKA.
OMAHA. Neb.. April 4 Municipal
elections were held in Nebraska towns
and villages today with the question
of saloon license the chief issue.
Early returns from over the state in
dicated a slight gain for the no-license
forces, the most natoble being that at
Fairbury, which changed from wet to
lry by a majority of over two hun
dred. For the first time In its history
North Platte voted out the faloons
by a majority of ninety.
WISCONSIN DRYING UP
MILWAUKEE, April 4. In many
towns and villages in Wisconsin which
voled nn the question of prohibition
today the drys appeared t'o have made
gains. Only two towns in Jackson
County are left in the wet list. They
nre ill towns of "Maryland, where no
vote was taken, and Almaccnter which
stayed w"t by a majority of 22. Black
River Falls went dry the first time in
20 years by a vote of SO. and Brock
way went the same way for the first
time in 25 years by eight votes.
NEW RUSSIAN GENERAL.
LONDON, April 4. Reuter's Petro
grad correspondent says that General
Brusiloff, commanding the eighth
army, has been appointed commander
in chief of the armies of the south
western front in succession to General
Ivanoff.
Battle With Bandits
Match With Americans Setting the Pace
(By Review Leased Wire)
GENERAL J. J. PERSHING'S CAMP.
SAN GERON1MO RANCH. Chihuahua.
April 2. (By aeroplane and motor
couriers to Columbus, April 4.) The
America nexpeditionary forces, llr.u
fight with the Villista bandits was a
running match, with the bandits try
ing to do all the running. This was
learned today, when part of Colouel
Dodd's command, which participated
in the fight, arrived at a supply base
near the headquarters camp. When
the Americans overtook the Villistas
in a surprise attack last Wednesday
morning the bandits made no attempt
to tight the Americans, whom they
equalled in numliers, except when they
were brought to bay by the hard rid
ing of the pursuers. Troopers who
purtitiputed in the fight said the ban
dits rode silentlv as if they were in
fright.
Few of tliem yelled, although yelling
has been heretofore a characteristic
of the Villistas In action. The ban
dits rode crouched over their horses,
scattering over n wide zone, leaving
to the American force all the fighting.
These were plainly some of the Vil
listas who participated in the Colum
bus raid, and apparently they had no
heart left for another battle with tlie
Amcrji-an soldiers. The Guerrero river
divided some of the pursuers and the
bandits for a tiuio during the five
hours running fight. Americans gal
loped (or some distance along ooo
bank of the river, tiring as they rode,
at bandits on the other aide. As the
ill BAND SURPRISED BY
TENTH CAVALRYMEN AND ARE
ROUTED WiTH MANY KILLED
Detachment of Negro Regiment, Under Col. Brown and
Formerly Located at Fort Huachuca, Encounters Rege
nades Near Aguas Calientas During Their Siesta. Mexi
cans Were Routed and Reports Say 30 to 40 Were Killed.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
SAN GERON'I.MO. Chi.. Mex., Apr il 4. (Via Aeroplane to Coionia
Dublin and by wireless to Clmnbus, N. M., April 4. Two hundred Ameri
can caalrymen undel Col. W. C. Brown. Tenth Cavalry, defeated an
equal force of Villistas in the second engagement of the campaign at
Asuas Calienles. 30 miles north of Guerrero on April 1. This report was
made to General Pershing today by two Mexican ranchers who said that
the Mexican forces lost 30 men and forty horses while the Americans sul
fered no casualties.
Villa was not Vh the bandits, according to the ranchmen who as
serted that the American troops believed at first they had encountered
ihe bandit chieftain. An investigation showed that he r.al "i titvri
the detachment.
For hours the American cavalrymen followed Manuel Lopez, one of
Villa's lieutenants, and his bandits through tortuous winding canyons anl
almost impassable trails of the mountains, feeling that they haj cluile.l
the pursuers the bandits relaxed their vigilance and before they realized
it they were confronted by the troops of the Tenth Cavalry of General
Pershing's old regiment, which had been stationed near the town to in
tercept stray bands, attempting to make their escape.
Only the most meagre details or the ensuing engagements were
brought here by the Mexican ranchmen but In many respect a it resembled
that of a week ago at Guerrero. Immediately The bandits realized the
presence of the American troops, they began a hurried disorganized flight
from their camp, some seizing their ponies and others trying to make
their escape afoot. They were slnsiy and in small parties all firing at
the American troops as they fled. None took time to aim. the ram hmeti
said, and none of the bullets found the khaki clad mark.
Officers here are Inclined to believe that if thirty bandits were killed
in the running fight, that at least as many were wounded. It was asst-rt-ed
also that because of the nature of the engagement it is probable that
some equipment, supplies and prisonPrs may have been captured.
The ranchman told General Pershing that the Villista were fiei-in?
in scattered bands of three to five men before the negro cavalrvnien.
Reports reaching here indicated that the force encountered by the
America cnavalrymen was the largest detachment of the force defented
and scattered at Guerrero a week Bg0 today bv Colonel Dodd's command.
These troops were said to have been j ,jle vic inity ot Vh. hiiuba uss
for several days.
Two American scouts reported t General Pershing tint they hs 1
been tired on by Villa outposts last Friday within the en irons of Bachimba
and that they had returned the fire Without result so far as they knew.
Two troops of cavalry, sent to the town to intercept the Villistas. rescued
there after the command had fled.
IS UNOFFICIAL. '
SAN ANTONIO. April 4. Surprised
during their siesta, one of the groups
of Villa's lorces driven from Guerrero,
was defeated Saturday by a squadron
of the Tenth Cavalry under Col. W.
C. Brown, according to informal iuit
secured by General Pershing and for
warded by him to General Funston to
day. In this second engagement the
American troops had with Villa's men.
the bandits' loss was estimated at
from 30 to forty killed. No mention
of American loss was made.
Colonel Prowu's encounter with the
Mexicans had not been reported to
General Pershing when he made his
report, his information being gained
from friendly Mexicans who had ar
rived at a point near Ruhio where
Major Evans, of the Tenth Cavalry,
was halted yesterday.
Major Evans reported that Saturday
Colonel Brown had eiicounteicd a
band of Villa's men and was pursuing
them through San Antonio. Soon af
terward, Mexicans who arrived from
that vicinity declared that he had
overtaken the wandering badits at the
Was Big Running
Villiftas. in small groups, rode up
some of the immense gradually slop
ing sides of the foothills in the long
fight they offered clear but tiny tar
gets for American forces strung out
along the line of pursuit. Against t!ie
brown grass of the open slopes men
for a great distance until they reached
almost the vanishing point of size.
Some of the troopers had unusual op
portunity to test their marksmanship
at the extreme range of killing for an
army rifle, about "000 ytmls.. At about
a mile few of them made hits, but
most of the .".0 known dead were siiot
at shorter ranges. The number of
Villistas wounded is problematical, as
these bandits are noted for tlielr har
dihood in recovering from wounds
without what is considered surgery as
known to modern armies.
A meat saw to amputate a limb or
an arm, without anesthetic for the pa
tient. Is an ordinary operation among
them. When the amputation is done,
the saw Is heated and clanped over
the raw wound to cauterize it. Wound
ed men treated by these primitive
methods are easily hidden in the
mountains where tile Vilistas fled af
ter the battle of Geronimo. Colonel
Dodd's men looked lit. notwithstand
ing their days of riding and fighting
without rations, other than su h na
tive food at; they could buy along the
Hoe of march
TUfl Guerrero river runs Immediate
ly past the town of Guerrero. In clos
ing about the, town the Americans
(Continued on Page 3)
I village of Aguas Calientes. 20 nilleg
I southeast of Bacliinava
I Villa's men. according to their vcr
' slon of the encounter, appeared whol
ly unsuspecting of the presence ot an
enemy a minute before they were at
tacked. It was about noon hcn Co!.
Brown brought his ca.alry within
! easy range. The Mexicans were ly
I ing about the place, many of t'eem
asleep and all their horses were ga
, ing, in many cases some distance
; from the n.cn. IVtails cf the action
were not told, but the Mexicans said
that the Americans captured a nitm-
ber of horses. General Pershing add
: ed that his reports of the engagement
lacked confirmation, though his rred
ence of the news was indicated by the
, fact that he transmitted it to General
' Funston. '
The second encounter won of Villa's
scattered forces aroused deep intere.-t
at General Funst oil's headquarter.
I where additional details were awaited
eagerly, but the interest in the re
' ports was not comparable to that di.f-
played alte rthe battle at Guerrero,
wh-n it was believed the capture of
i Villa himself was a nuestion cf hours.
, It was realized by army men that the
'effect of Col. Brown's fight and of
! other minor engagements that may
occur only are unimportant so far as
the greater problem of catching Villa
is concerned. Engagements of that
character may be expi-cted now from
time to time and the running down
of the marauding bands is essentin!
to the safety of Ihe American rol'imn.
but it was indicated Ihe onlv eiTects.
so far as Villa is concerned, wit' be
to destroy the moral of his support
ing force and depriving him of a cer
tain amount of strength.
There are known to le other band
operating in thyt sam part of Mexico
ami a part of the American fores
must remain to deal with them whllo
the other part pushes on in the pur
suit of the fugitive chief.
The action south of Ba hinava only
served to stiffen the oninion of st:(T
officers that if the punitive expedition
is to complete Its work a er'at many
more troops must be se.it into :h-
countrv on the Me' an central r:i'
road from Juarez to Chihuahua :-nd
even through Chihuahua to po:nts
further south.
The-admision at General Funston'
headquarters today that the success
of Ihe expedition now depended large
ly on the freer use of the railroads or
the material strengthening of the
lone round about line of communica
tion and its branches, revealed a situa
tion that it will plan of pursuit.
Villa's latest southward shift s
credited in official quarters since it
came from consular reports ia which
the outlaw was o at d well becnd
Chihuahua City and eentuailr trying
to reach rarral or even Torreon or
Durango City. In the vicinity of all
those cities, ther are knnn to be
tContinued on Pase 6)
