V,Jf
dWfV,tirrft W?" ' J
""rf t"""""'
rwr
TV-
L-T' Tfff'ii'F ' ' S3Pf .WW'Wy.r'T, '"y'r- -ivyi?"
m?:
''
iePahmat0it Sfme
WEATHER FORECAST:
FairTdnight
(Full Report on Page Two.)
HOME
EDITION
f
NUMBER 88G1.
WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY EVENING, APRIL 5, 101G.
PRICE ONE CENT,
fM. "l-rl .
SUBURBAN STREET
CAR MEN ORGANIZE:
DEMAND INCREASE ARE
Washington - Virginia Railway
Asked to Reinstate Workers
Discharged Since March 15.
OLf DOMINION UNION, TOO
Employes of This Line, How
ever, Have as Yet Submitted
No Demands to Company.
Demnndlnr the reinstatement of men
discharged since March IX. and asking
an Increase In ray, employes of the
Washington-Virginia Railway Company
today submitted a proposed agreement
between the men and the company to
Superintendent J. V. Rich.
Employes of the Washington-Virginia
Company and the Washington and Old
Domlnton Railway Company, the two
lines operating In Virginia, have com
pletely organised. It is declared by union
officials.
Employes of the Old Dominion Com
pany have not submitted grievances or
made any demands upon that company.
Is Up to Company.
Just what action the Washington
Virginia Company will take on the
agreement has not been determined. It
was submitted to Superintendent Rich
by a. committee of live men, one from
each division.
What action will follow submission of
the union draft of an agreement Is
problematical. It asks for settlement
of all grievances between the company
and tho organization, and for aro.tra
tlon In case agreement Is not reached.
Tut. principal demands of the men as
embodied in tho dialt of tin Agreement
suomlttcd aro:
That nil grievances be adjudicated by
a committee ot company and union
i men.
Thiit where gr finances can not he nd
Jutsod In this manner board of arbi
tration to be chosen one member by
the company, cne by the THeh. and a,
thltd by tho first two.
That men discharged Mince March 15
be iclnstated and paid for all lost time.
. That wages for mctormen and con
ductors bo 2S cents an hour for the llrat
tno year ami Xi cnts an hour thmo-
after. r
ait"1!1' "' for trooy men - he ,20
Thnt men shall chooso their runH ac
oirdlng to .sonlorlty In service. ,
That ware of dispatchers be lit)
month, wtlh twr. days oft a month and
ten days annual leave.
That wages of shop and barn men bo
Increased 25 per cent
Operates Five Lines.
The Washlngton-Vlrglnla Company
operates five lines or divisions In Vlr-glnla-the
Washngton, Alexandria, and
Mt. Vernon line; lines to Falls Church
and Fairfax; to Arlington and Fort
Myer, and from Rosslyn to the points
named.
Superintendent Rich stated today that
the company had voluntarily increased
wages on all Its lines a week ago to
meet the scale received by employes of
the Washington Railway and Electric
Company since the strike. Its work
day, he said, was on a ten-hour basis.
Wages on the Washington Railway
and hlectric Company for motormen
and conductors under the strike agree
ment are 2314 cents an hour for the first
.year; H cents an hour for the next
four years; 25J4 cents an hour for the
next five years, and 27 cents an hour
after ten years of service.
Has Pension Fund.
In addition to the wages paid at pres
ent, Mr. Rich stated, the company has
a pension fund for the men. and gives
them the best working conditions possi
ble. It employs, he says, about nlnety
tlvo trainmen.
Representatives of tho men are not
talking str.kc. but they are determined
upon their demands.
The committee from the men merely
submitted the agreement draft to Mr.
Rich today for "your consideration and
renlv at an early date."
The men have a charter from the
American Federation of Labor as Di
vision 609, Amalgamated Asosclatlon of
Street and Electric Railway Employes
of America. The charter Is ten numbers
higher than that granted the employee
of tho Washington Railway and Elec
tric and Capital Traction companies.
The organization was started during
the strike on the city lines. Rezln Orr.
who organized the Washington em
ployes, asstatted the Virginia men In
putting In their organization.
The committee representing the men,
which submitted the agreement today,
Is composed of T. E. Hyland, R. p.
Shonherd, W. W. Smith, W. Lee, and
I J. Furr.
Ford and Smith Are
Still Neck and Neck
DETROIT, April 5. With Henry Ford
still in the lead only an official compila
tion of the vote at Lansing can deter
mine definitely whether Senator Wil
liam Alden Smith or Ford Is the choice
ut Michigan Republicans aa the State's
"favorite son."
This was Indicated today when com
plete returns from nine of the eighty
three counties In tlife State, and Incom
plete figures from fifty-one others show
ed the Senator and the automobile build
er running neck and neck In the fight
for controT of the thirty Wolverine dele
gates. The latest available figures showed
this vote:
Ford, 43,001, Smith, 41,878; Simpson,
3,000.
Friends of Senator Smith here were
confident that he would win the Indorse
ment of his party by a safe margin.
They pointed to the fact that the lead
.of more than 6,000 votes given to Ford In
Vayne county (Detroit) had been grad
ually cut down by the returns from the
up-State counties.
Italian War Minister
And Aide Have Resigned
ROME, April J.-Mlnlster of VVar, Gen
eral Zupelll, and ur.dersecrtary for war,
G.-n!r!.' EUa' hava resigned, it la
officially announced. .
PURSUIT
OF VILLA
HALTED UNTIL LINES
Funston Admits Bandit Has Es
caped to South, Probably
Headed for Parral District.
'VERY FEW TROOPS FOLLOW
Present Available Force Has
Been Drained to Keep Lines
of Communication Open.
BAN ANTONIO, Tex April 5. Ad
mitting that Villa has escaped to the
south, Major General Funston declares
the bandit chief probably Is headed
for the Parral district, with "very
few" American troops In pursuit.
Explaining; this statement, Funnton
sstd It Is Impossible to send a con
siderable body of soldiers farther
south, because of the necessity of
protecting the lines of communica
tion. The present available force has been
drained to meet this requirement.
Hope of an early successful endtnK
of the great man-hunt apparently has
been abandoned at army headquarters.
General Funston and members or his
staff exhibit a pronounced air of pes
simism. Needs Stronger Force.
Villa's escape from the Guerrero dis
trict was due to misinformation given
the army officers by the bandit's friends
and sympathizers, according to staff of.
fleers here.
Funston himself frankly admitted that
a continuation of the chase southward
must be backed up by a stronger force
than at present Is available.
Commenting on Col. W. C. Brown's
defeat of a Vllllsta force thirty mites
north of Guerrero April 1, Funston
pointed out that the troops under Brig
adler General Pershing available for
pursuit are undoubtedly now far south
of the scene of this engagement, which
resulted In the killing of thirty VII
Ustas. i
There were no casualties among the
200 negro troopers In Colonel Brown's
Tenth Cavalry command. Knowledge of
the fight is limited to reports brought
to General Pershing by Mexican ranch
ers. No detailed official report has yet
beta made.
Funston believes the bandits who
burned two bridges north of Monolova
yesterday are Vllllataa. but Is not cer
tain, and admits himself somewhat at
sea concerning the leadership of this
enemy faction. There have been no re
ports to headquarters ot dlsaffectlons
(Continued on Pag Twelve.)
SUPPlTIT FOR
PENSION FUNDS
Commissioners Approve Cary
Bill for Fire and Police De
partments. Characterizing the present pension
sysstem as Inadequate and Ineffective,
besides at times Inflicting Injustice and
hardship upon the beneficiaries," the
Commissioners sent to Congress today a
report strongly urgng tho passage of
the Carv bill to provide for the creation
of a policemen and firemen's relief fund.
In lieu of a flat Reduction of $1 a
month from the salary of each officer
and member of the Police and Fire De
partment, the bill proposes to deduct 1M
per cent.
Tollce Court fines and money derived
from the tax on dogs, now credited to
the pension funds will be covered into
the Treasury aa general revenues.
In a letter to Chairman Johnson of
the House District Committee, the
Commissioners say
"The law at this time permits the
use of Police Court fines and dog
taxes to meet deficiencies In pension
Payments, but the moneys derived In
his manner are entirely Inadequate,
an evidenced by the fact that since
1911 there has been accumulated In
the police fund a deficiency of (&.
'480.05 and In the firemen's relief fund,
$22,930.82, or an aggregate deflnclency
for both funds of $88,410.87.
"It Is neccMsary to provide a sourco
riom which sufficient monevs msy bo
cbtalned to mtet deficiencies and to uny
ponslons or teller nllcwonces hi full.
It Is proposed by this bill that such
amounts ihall be chtulned wholly from
the rcveiiucs of the District of I olum
bla, tho Collector cf Taxes covering
Into the Treasury to the credit of ihe
Joint fund frcm lime to time, as may
bo required ieenues collected hy him"
The retirement of a member of either
department for permanent dslahllity In
curred In the line of duty Is now au
thorized by law. The Cary bill pro
vides for retirement after twenty-live
years, for permanent disability rrom
any cause, and at the nge or sixty years,
In the discretion or the Commissioners.
Tho bill fixes a maximum pension of
(ne-hulf or salary received at tlm
time of retirement with maximum al
lowances of f'OO a mouth for en"
tains In the Tire Depaitment and
lieutenants In the Police Depaitment,
of 150 a month for privates, of 150 a
month for widows; of 125 n month
for children under sMeen veara of
nffo; of 15" a month for family allow
ances. Total of 18 U-Boats.
NEW YORK. April B.-Elghtecn Ger
man submarines, captured by the llrlt
Ish, are now In service with the Hritlsh
nav. W. T. Spann, Dallas cattleman,
declared on his arrival from Liverpool,
Hnann said he saw the crews of two
. csptured U-boats marched through the
' fttraftta nt T-tvAriwuil.
MM
CONTEST
FOR BEST CHANCELLOR DENIES
DECORATED WINDOW GERMAN DESIGN TO
CLOSES AT 7 P. M. WAR AGAINST U. S.
i
Last Opportunity Is Offered
Contestants for Prizes in
Display Competition.
NAME WINNERS TOMORROW
Judges Have Difficult Task to
Inspect Attractive Designs
Throughout City.
TIia bell rings on Tho Washington
Times window dlsntay contest nt 7
7 o'clock this tvcnlnr.
This means that ov--ry reader of The
Times who would be a contestant for
the ten-dollar prizes offered byTho
Times must have n properly tilled ojt
coupon In Tho Times office neforo 7
o'clock.
At one minute nrter 7 the waste pnper
basket will take the plnco or tho .nail
bag.
Tumoirow the anrlonncerient of the
winners will bo made. Ai.d It will very
likely bo nn nlt-nlght job to find out
who thoso winners arc, too.
Interest Has Been Great.
The Intel est that has been taken In
The Tinges contest hus been unprece
dented. It Is, regarded by tfio merchants
ns showing an Interest In the shops they
did no; believe existed. Kvcry mall
that comes Into Tho Tiinjs ofllce brings
a mass of coupons. A special lorco has
been detailed to tubulate them so that
no tlmo will bo loel In deciding the
winners
Tho repot l of tho three arthts who
have been selected as Jiidges of tho
contest will be prevented to The Times
this evening. It Is expected that the
report will be In thy office by 7
o'clock? But the artist JuJes havo found
themselves confrcntcd with u dlMcMlt
Job. Thev started cut yesterday at
noon In a big outoineblle to 'isll tho
nrlotis sliopH and murk them in ac
coidanco wltr the tults thiit hod been
established Idr the contest.
Major I'ullman would have no fault
to find with the way in which the
traffic regulations were observed by
the judges' automobile. It required
more than an hour to travel half a
bloc): on F street alone. That Is a
speed of about a mile In two day!
The reason was that the judges found
something to mark on every show
window In 'the block.
Each Block Attractive.
And the sight that greeted them In
one block was duplicated In the next.
When It Is remembered that this ron
test has the unique distinction at
being the first contest that has. thrown
open the doors on equal terms to all
merchants, some Idea of the Judges'
(Continued on Third Page.)
E OLD SITE FOR
AQUEDUCT BRIDGE
Commissioners Recommend
That New Span Be Located
at or Near Present Site.
necommendnllon that the proposed
new Acqucduct Bridge he located nt or
near th present tcrmlnm at Thlrty
slNth slieet nnd In nn event nn fur
ther cast than Thirty-fourth street Is
made bv tho OommKiloncrs In n leport
tent to Secretary Baker today.
The Commissioners' conclusionx are
tinned on consldcratlf-n or arguments
presented at t pul'llc hearlnr held
March 27 In resptnso tc the reiuest of
Secretary I'nker.
Tho Carlln bill, which has passed the
House and Is now In the Senate, con
templates that the new bridge shall be
located In Georgetown, at or near the
situ of the present bridge.
"This site," tho Commissioners say,
"Is favored by the Washington Uoard
or Trsde. the Chamber of Commerce
of Washington, the Georgetown Citi
zens' Association, and most of the resi
dents of Georgetown. '
The Commissioners my that realU
Inir the gieat Interest Uie District
1ms In the site of the bridge and de
slrlntr io hive some voice In the 1e
termlnatlon of tho site they havo
leconimended that the oost of the
now. hildirci bt apportioned between
the District and the United .States.
Replacement of ihe present stiuo
ture hnB been utaori for a number of
joars. they say, but until tho present
yeai It has been proposed that thu
entire cost be borno by tho United
Mates,
To Probe Abuse of
House Privileges
Committee Named Following Re
port on Buchanan-Marshall
Investigation.
Accompanied by a concurrent resolu
tion from Floor Leader Kltchln, tho
House Judiciary Committee today urjed
appointment of a special committee of
five to Investigate nllegcd violations of
Hpuso privileges and providing a ,iun
tshment for contempt.
Tho report was the result of the In
vestigation or chrges or malfeasance
made against District Attorney H.
Suonden Marshall, of New York, by
Congressman Buchanan of Illinois.
The roport made nn findings on tho
facts. The resolution was unanlmou)y
sdoptJd. ami Kpenker Clarlc named on
the commute t'ongre?smi"ii Moon, Gar
ner, Crist. Sterling, mid Lenroot. The
committee la to repurt not later than
Awil It.
Re'chstag Told Germany Is
Fighting for No Foot of For
eign" Soil.
REVIEW ECONOMIC PROBLEM
Nation Ready to Economize to
Point of Franoo-Prussian
War Conditions, He Says.
BERLIN, April 5. In his address
before tho Reichstag today, Chancel
lor von Bethmann-Hollweg declared
that Germany has no Intention now
or In the future to wage war agaliut
the United Htates.
"The last offspring of the campalxn
or calumnies directed against us," he
said, "Is the report that aMer the end
or this war we shall rush against the
American continent and shall attempt
to conquer Canada as our first prov
ince. "This Is the silliest ot all Imputa
tions Invented against us and equally
silly are the reports that we contem
plate the acquisition or any territory
on American roll either in Brazil or
any American country whatroevrr.
"We fight for our existence and our
future. For Germany, and for no foot
of foreign soil, Germany's sous are
bleeding and dying on the battlefield.
"Everybody among us knows this
and that makes our hearts and nerves.
strong. This moral strength strength
ons our '.will not only In order to
weather the flnal storm, but also for
final victory."
Spirit of Union.
He reviewed the whole military and
political situation, discussed means of
warfare and Germany's relations with
the United Btates. He explained, too,
tin government's attitude toward the
different nationalities of Europe, Bel
gian, Lithuanian, Polish, und Flemish.
It is doubly necessary, the chancellor
said, to guarantee the peace of Europe
nfter the war. hy giving to these races
the chance of free evolution along the
lines of their mother tonguo and natural
Individuality.
The chancellor was wildly cheered us
he concluded his speech with the words;
"The spirit of union shall lead us.
and. shalU lead odr children. and rrand-4
ennaren through the struggles or their
fathers toward a future of strength and
liberty."
The chancellor began his speech with
a review of the military situation.
Military Situation.
"Since I last addressed you," he said,
"the Dardanelles enterprise of our
enemies has ended In failure.
"Together with our Bulgarian and
Austrian allies, we have brought the
Herblan campaign to a victorious end.
"Montenegro and Albania are now like
wise in the hands or Germany a allies.
"The English have attempted In vain '
to relieve their besieged forces at Kut-
El-Amara.
"The Russians have occupied Erzerum
with superior forces, but have found
their further advanco checked by strong
Turkish forces,
"On the Austrian front Russian at
tacks against Eastern Gallcla and
Italian attack against the Isonzo po
sition have been beaten back.
"On our fronts, the Rursians also ,
drove column? against the German lines, '
but their attack broke down before von I
Hlndcnburz and his heroes. I
"Furthermore, the enemy's reports
that Germany's military forces have ,
been exhausted arc erroneous, as tho
Verdun battle proves. At Verdun tho
operations were prepared with profound
foresight, and tho bravery of the Ger-
man troops continues io gain one ad
vantage after another."
Economic Conditions.
The chancellor expressed the thanks
of tho nation to Germany's soldiers and I
their leader, and then turned to the
question of Internal economic con
ditions. "I understand how our enemies In 1915
could not give up the hope of starving)
Germany Into submission," he said, "but
I do not understand how cool heads, '
eftcr the experiences of 1915, can cling1
to It.
"Our enemies forget that, thanks to
the organization powers of the whole
nation, Germany is equal to the task
ot distribution of victuals. They forget
that the German nation, In cases of
real scantiness, disposes of Imposing
moral reserves which enable us to lower
our standard or lire, which had risen
remarkably during the last decades.
Cropg Are Sufficient.
"What would It mean U, for Instance,
the consumption of meat would tem
porarily be lowered to the level of the
70's.
i should think that our adversaries
would remember how strong was the
German race or those days."
Tho chancellor admitted that condi
tions or life are not easy In Germany
at present, but he said these difficulties
are borne In admirable fashion by all
classes, particularly the poorer classes,
Reports on the coming ciop he said,
ollay any fears that the foodstuffs will
not ne sufficient,
Toward Neutrals.
In carrying out her program to "starve
Geimany out," England, the chan
cellor said, makes war upon tho women
and children of Germany, and, with her
nllles, violates tho trade or neutrals,
"Tho Amerlcsn note or November o,
1915, gave an exact description or Eng
lish violations of International law," he
added, "but as far as I know 11 has not
been answered up to this day.
The chancellor then launched Into a
discussion of Germany's war policies as
they affect neutrals. Without directly
mentioning tho United Htates mid tho
piesent submarine controversy, he said:
"No serene minded neutral, no matter
whether he favors us or not, can doubt
our right to defend ourselves against
this war or starvation, wtlleh Is con
trary to International law Nobody can
ask Uk that we allow the arms or de
rense to bo wrested from our hands.
NN e use them and wo must use them.
"Wf respect the legitimate rights of
neutral trade and commerce, but we can
expect that this respect Is appreciated,
and that our right and our duty Is
iccrunlzed to use all means against this
policy of starvation, which Is a leering
Insult not only to all laws or nations,
but also to be the plainest duty of humanity."
Bankers Who Request
Speed in Court
J
" MH
gBBBBBBKBflr
f 9aaw:7av.'n.
ilBBBBBBflHk 2mZ tt ii
mm '-m
I I I L B I I
t&wxi&$m Xn.
WA m iL.
flsHHlgH
Above CHARLES C. GLOVER.
Center W. J. FLATHER.
Below H. H. FLATHER.
WILLIAMS DENIES
Comptroller of Currency issues
Statement Refuting Charge
by Riggs Officials.
Comptroller or the Currency Williams,
when asked today concerning a state
ment Issued by officials or the Klggs
National Bnnk to the effect that he had
Intimated his Intention to refuse a re
newal of the bank's chnrtcr because ot
penUIni; Indictment' against officials of
the Institution, denied that he had made
nny statement on the subject.
lie said:
"This ortlce has received no applica
tion ror a renewal or tho charter or the
Rlggs National Bank, and no statement
has been made hy the Comptroller to
the effect that an application would be
refused If the bank's condition at the
tlmo of filing the charter should be sol
vent, and II tho monosed officers and
directors of tho bank should be men of '
character, Integrity, and unblemished I
reputation.
"This office has no possible control '
over tho criminal suits referred to, '
wnicn are Deine conuueteu uy me De
partment of Justice, nor has It any
knowledge as to anv correspondence
wb'ch the attorneys of the bank may
have lied with the district attorney or
other officers of tho Department of
.lustlre "
Anonymous Letter
Leads to Diamonds
Jems Valued at Thousand Lost
Two Weeks Ago Are
Recovered.
An anonymous letter to the I'ollco
Department resulted today In the recov.
erv of H.oOrt worth of diamonds, which
were lot about two wecka ago,
"he Jowelrv consisting of a two-karat
pin, n solitaire rlnir. a. solitaire stud
anc a enrnot and diamond necktie clasp,
nrn the property of Mrs. Margaret Jahn,
ot l.Mti Everts street northeast.
Mrs. Everts loit tho tawdry In Cen
ter MaiKet on Maich :"6. Although a
co'ored woman wus seen to pick up the
chamoli bag containing tho gems, no
traco of tho diamonds was found for
many days,
While tho detectives searched, Mrs.
Evarts offered a reward of JlOl), and
this It 1 thought 1 rouglit the first clue
to tlieli whercnuouta.
Yesterday the anonymous letty was
received pt police headquarters. The
writer declared sho know the womin
who picked un tho lowclrv. and that the
finder had given tho lew dry "to her
white fo'ks to kee? for her."
Worklnk on th's letter, tho 'ncectlves
say thai last night they found the
Jewelrv In the possession of n white
woman who icndlK rellunuldicd It.
The arrest of the colored woman on .
charge of grand larceny hollowed, but
she was promptly released in ths I'ollce
iouru
THREATENING
BANK
RIGGS OFFICIALS
PETITION COURT
TO SPEED TRIAL
C. C. Giover, William
Flather Say Existence of Bank Is Im
periled Unless Perjury Indictments"
Are Taken Up Before ltyayisC
THREAT MADE BY
Accused Men Assert Comptroller Said He
Would Refuse to Renew Institution's
Charter When It Expires June 1
Charles C. Glover, president of Riggs National Bank";
William J. Flather, vice president, and H. H. Flather,
former cashier, today filed in the District Supreme Court
motions for the expedition of their trials under pending
perjury indictments and urging that they be furnished with
a bill of particulars on which the indictments are based.
In a statement issued by attorneys for the indicted
officials it is charged that Comptroller of the Currency
Williams has made a threat to refuse a renewal of the
bank's charter on July 1 because of the indictments pend
ing against them, and this is given as the real reason for
demanding a speedy trial.
The cases of Mr. Glover and the Messrs. Flather
have been set for trial on May 8 before Justice Siddons.
To wait until that date, the petitioners contend, would
threaten the "existence of one of the leading financial In
stitutions of the city.
HAVE SOUGHT EARLY DATE.
The Riggs officials make affidavit that since October
1. last, the date on which the indictments were filed, they
have made every effort to induce the District Attorney to
set the earliest date possible for their trial and have vainly
sought the bill of particulars which the court is asked to
direct shall be granted them.
They further aver that as far back as January 6 they
advised the District Attorney in the course of a conversa
tion that the alleged threat had been made by Comptroller
Williams and assigned that as a reason for their request
for expedition of the trials.
As long ago as February 11, the affiants assert, the
District Attorney promised the bill of particulars which
they had outlined as necessary to permit them to prepare
for trial, but add that he has thus far failed to furnish it. .
An effort is made to show that the delay is not at
tributable to rush of business in the District Attorney's
office .or overcrowding of the courts.
The affidavits assert that on March 21 counsel for the
defendants advised the District Attorney that they had
teen informed by Postmaster General Burleson that the
Attorney General had said they might have a trial as soon
as they desired. The work of the criminal branches of the
District Supreme Court has been kept so close to the cal
endar, the petitioners declare, that one branch has been
hearing civil actions.
FILED SUIT AGAINST OFFICIALS. '
In April, 1915, the Riggs National Bank filed suit
against Comptroller of the Currency Williams, Secretary
of the Treasury McAdoo, and other Treasury officials,
charging them with conspiracy to wreck the bank and ask
ing the court to restrain them from further such efforts.
In the course of the preliminary hearing counsel for
ihe defense charged that the Riggs Bank had been specu
hting in stocks through Lewis Johnson & Co., a brokerage
firm now passing through bankruptcy. Mr. Glover and
the Messrs. Flather, as officers of the bank, made an affi
davit asserting that the bank had never bought or soli
stocks through the firm.
This statement was met hy counsel for the Treasury
officials by the introduction as evidence of a transcript of
?n account found on the books of the brokerage firm,
showing transactions approximating 6,000 in all, under
the name of the Riggs National Bank.
Though the bank officials endeavored to shjw that
these transactions were conducted for customers, being
simply transmitted by the bank's officers for the accommo-
ii.on of customers, nnd that th-j bank thereby incurred
nei'her chau.e cf gai- or loss, the grand jury on October 1
icturned indictments against Mr. 'Glover and the Messrs.
J. Flather, and R H.
WILLIAMS, CHARGE
I
