I 1 J copper firm, electrolytic, nearby, -U F JU- j W J -r X WEATHER Utah: Fair Tonight 1
I a S28.00$28,50; June and later, $27.00 I and Thursday; Cooler Tonight With ' H
1 J -: $27.75. W. J Local Frost. H
1 ; ) " : FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. H
: I S'XthYear-Nl82- Price; eCenu. QGDEN CITY, UTAH, WEDNESDAY EVENING, APRILS, 1916. M Second CTasa Matter at PoBtofflce, 0cden(uuK , I
i mm FORCES GAIN GROUND IN
i FIERCE FIGHT WITH THE GERMANS
1 1 Intense Bombardment in Woevre District and in Lorraine
1 Twenty-two Mines in the Meuse Exploded Hand-to-
1 , Hand Fighting in the Argonne French Aeroplanes
I L Engage in Fifteen Battles Double-motored
M German Machine Brought Down Two
I I !J ' Others Destroyed.
m I Paris, April 5, 12 noon. The
M 1 French, gained ground north of Cail-
M i lette wood northeast of Verdun in
m ' the course of several engagements
M i during the night, the war office an-
m Jiounced this afternoon.
jM ' West of the Mouse there were no
.9 i -events of importance.
9 I Twenty mines which were thrown
M into the Meuse at St. Mlhiel hy the
V t Germans were exploded by the French
M with no damage.
9 ' The text of the communication fol-
9 lows
9 "In the Argonne there has been a
S combat with hand grenades in the
9 sector between Bolanto and Fille
9 ' Morte. We caused the explosion of
9 two mines which damaged an enemy
9 trench.
9 "West of the Meuse, last night
9 passed relatively calm. East of the
9 river we took part in several engage-
9 ments during the course of which we
made progress in the connecting
trench north of Cailletto wood.
"In the woevre there has been an
intense bombardment between Mou-
lainvillo and Chatillon. The Germans
threw Into the Meuse, north of St.
r Mlhiel, 22 mines. These floated down
r and were exploded by us without
causing any damage.
"In the Lorraine the Germans, after
a violent bombardment of our posi
tions between Arracourt and St. Mar-
i 'tine, delivered several small infantry
attacks against various points in this
; sector -The enemy was everywhere
; thrown back by our machine guns and
artillery.
' ; "In the Vosges, a reconnaissance in
force on the part of the enemy who
were endeavoring to reach our trench
; es southeast of Cellos, was easily dis
persed Fifteen Air Battles.
"In the region of Verdun, Fren h
aeroplanes, on April 4, engaged in no
fewer than fifteen aerial combats
during the course of which a double
I motored German, machine was
$ brouElitNIown-near the Torfa of"Hauts
Fourneaux. Another German ma
chine fell down near the wood of
Pilly and a third German aeroplane
fell vertically to the ground. All the
1 French pilots got back without suf
fering damage.
"During the night of April 3-4, one
of our aerial squadrons threw down
14 shells on the railroad station at
; Nantillois and five others on the bar-
tracks of the enemy at Damvillers."
Berlin War Report.
Berlin, April 5, wireless to Say
f ville. The following statement was
i issued today by German army head-
-r quarters
"Artillery engagements in the Ar
gonne and in the Meuse district are
continuing with undiminished vigor.
', The situation is unchanged.
"On the left bank of the Meuse the
' French were prevented by the Ger-
; mans from again occupying the mill
northeast of Haumont.
"In the Fort Douaumont sector yes
terday repeated counter attacks of
the enemy broko down before tho Ger
man lino, southwest of the fort and
i In front of the German positions in
the nortli part of the Cailletto wood.
"German troops In Lorraine and on
I the Alsatian frontier carried out sev-
1 era! successful patrol enterprises.
:j Germans Lose 14 Aeroplanes.
I "During the month of March, in aer
ial engagements on the western front,
) the Germans lost fourteen aeroplanes,
ft of which seven were lost In air com-
bats. Three were shot from the
ground and four aro missing. Tho
!. British and French lost forty-four
V aeroplanes, of which 38 were lost In
air combats, four were shot down on
the ground , on our front and two
i were forced to land within the Ger
man lines. Twenty-five enemy aero
:J planes fell into German hands. The
fall of nineteen others was noticed.
"Eastern front: In the sectors of
? Narocz and Wiszniew lakes, the Rus-
l Biau artillery fire has increased."
F Review of War Situation.
In an evident determination not to
, permit the Germans to retain the
I ground they won recently in the
5 Vaux-Douaumont region northeast or
j Verdun, tho French are continuing
I their violent attacks there, Paris to-
day reports that ground was gained
Bt north of Caillette wood in several en-
m gagements fought last night
91 Several small infantry engagements
ml have taken place in Lorraine, the Ger-
91 iuan8 being repulsed by French artil-
lory and machine gun fire.
9l London reports tho sinking of tho
91 Spanish steamer Vigo by a German
submarine In the Bay of Biscay. The
Dutch schooner Elsina Helfa has been
91 torpedoed in the North sea and the
SI British steamer Bendow has been
sunk with a loss of one member of
Hl the crew.
SI I" a notable speech In tho German
SI reichstag today, Chancellor von Beth-
Sl inann-Holhveg denounced reports that
Si Germany contemplated aggression
S9l against the United States after the
Sf war' Reports that she had in mind
TOJlL the acqulstion of American territory
Till wore Billy, ho declared.
Jf Itily has a now minister of war,
M General Paolo Morrone, appointed In
II?. succession to General Zupelll, who
Jft Uas resigned on account of ill health.
Mf Spanish Steamer Sunk.
M London, April 5, 10:05 a. m. The
m Spanish steamship Vigo of 1,137 gross
if
tons, was sunk in the Bay of Biscay
by a German submarine, according to
a Lloyd's report. The crew was set
adrift in a boat and later picked up
by the British steamship Polo and
taken to Gibraltar.
Lloyd's also reports the sinking of
the British steamship Bendew, with
the loss of one of the crew.
Norwegian Ship Torpedoed.
Bordeaux, April 5, 12:05 p. m.
The crew of the Norwegian steamship
Arena of 1,192 tons gross has been
taken to Ymulden by the trawler
Clare. A Renter dispatch from Ymul
den says the Arena was torpedoed and
sunk by a German submarine.
The Vigo was owned by Gonzales
and Fernandez of Villa Garcia. She
was built in 1S7S at Middlesboro and
was 250 feet long and 23 feet beam.
The Bendew was of 3,361 tons and
was built in 1909 at West Hartlepool
for J. Houjt and company of that
lu t. vjitw iiuj vn l &v.tu wii3 uiiu v .
feet beam.
German General Dead.
Amsterdam, April 5, via London,
3:22 p. m. According to the Vossis
cho Zoitung of Berlin, Lieutenant
General Gottlieb Ferdinand von Dor
rer of the German army has died oi
wounds received on tho battlefield.
Italian Minister Resigns.
London, April 5, 105 p. m. A Stef
an! dispatch from Rome says King
Victor Emmanuel has accepted the
resignation of War Minister Zupelll
and appointed General Morrone to
succeed him. It Is stated General Zu
pelll desires to participate in active
operations.
Zupclli Has 111 Health.
Rome, April 4, G:30 p m. (Delay
ed). It is reported that General Zu
pelli, minister of war, has resigned
on account of ill health and that Gen
cja 1 Paojo Mprjone,. co.minan.der of. an
army cofps,'will succeed him. Gen
eral Alfierl, It Is said, will be named
under secretary of state.
General Zupelll was appointed min
ister of war in October of 1909. He
was born an Austrian subject He
was an activo member of the Italian
general staff In which capacity he
prepared for the campaign which
would be fought on the eastern Front
ier in case of war. His selection was
due to Lieutenant General Count Ca
dorna, the Italian commander-in-chief.
Dutch Steamer Torpedoed.
The Hague, via London, April 5,
fi25 a. m. It is officially announced
that the Dutch schooner Elslnhelfa
was torpedoed yesterday in the North
sea. Tho crew have been brought to
Noordhinder.
A government inquiry will be open
ed when the crew reaches Rotterdam.
The ministry of marines, announced
that the government has decided to
conduct an investigation of the Tu
bantia wreck which takes it out of
the hands of the owner.
oo
INFANTRY CORPS
TRUNIN); HJKFS
m. lii AAA i aJL s vil iL E. M.&aiJ
Men Especially Fitted for
Mountain Climbing Invalu
able for Work in Mexico.
TROOPS SLEEP IN SNOW
General Pershing Fixes Prices
of Food Articles and Avoids
Complaints Is Kind
to Peons.
At the front in Mexico, Commanding
General's Headquarters April 1. by
I aeroplane and motor courier to Col
umbus, N. M., April 4. America's
first detachment of mountain Infantry
a crops of men especially trained for
such service as that In tho mountain
studded country of Guerrero, soon will
be actively assisting tho cavalry in the
search for Francisco Villa, Tho belief
has been announced that such a com
mand will prove invaluable for tho
work confronting the American troops
in tho Guerrero district.
"Much has been written," said tho
general, "about this being a cavalry
chase. It is just as much an infantry
task. There aro places In the moun
tains where cavalry can not penetrate
rocks, cliffs, peaks, caves, canyons,
and forests, where at anv time, the
chase might becomo a question of a
.man to man fight, of hand-to-hand
work. The Infantry in Mexico is now
being brought into physical condition
for this sort of campaign.
'Is that the reason," tho general
was asked, "why the infantry at the
bases back of the front has been talk
ing about the ten and fifteen mile
hikes It has been ordered to take In
to surrounding mountains?"
"Tho infantry" replied the general,
may soon have a season to demon
strate the uses of Its training.
The marching referred to has been
along the line of communications as
the Infantry advanced toward the
front, about two weeks behind the ad
vance columns of the cavalry.
Aeroplane Rocks in Hot Air.
An aeroplane this afternoon sailed
into headquarters camp, stopped fivo
minutes with dispatches and then flew
southward toward a mountain pass
twenty miles away, flying over a mass
where tho distant mountain were re
flected upside down, as In water, by
the aftornoon heat waves on the
ground. The machine rocked and slip
ped over this boiling air.
Snow on Mesa.
Earlier in the day from this same
mesa, a troop of half frozen cavalry
men came into camp for rest and food.
They had been caught in a suddon
norther. They had ridden on moun
tain sides In snow four Inches deep
and tho cold was so biting that they
had kept their fingers in motion, some
of them said, so that In case of attack
their trigger fingers would not be too
numb for use. Yesterday- afternoon
in this mesa, snow was flying as thick
ly as to obscure the adjoining moun
tains Men and horses In the head
quarters camp stood with their backs
to the driving white flakes, tho men's
head covered with blankets and the
horses with noses sunk almost to the
ground.
In the morning the men in this same
camp, al' sleepinng in the open,
awakened to find themselves covered
with a layer of hard snow They lock
ed across on Irrigation ditch to see
General Pershing himself white with
snow. There was not a tent in camp.
The tents and abundant food are on
the way, but thus far tho troopers
have moved ahead out of each advance
camp without waiting for either
tents or food. They joked today
about the snow.
Troops Search Mountain Tops.
Tho troop which kept its trigger
fingers working for warmth, has spent
many nours m search for a mountain
top cabin, where scouts reported that
two Villa bandits to had called for
food. This house was less than fif
teen miles from the headquarters of
the Americans. Tho Information
which the troop obtained bore out the
opinion among officers here that
most of the Vlllatas have been scat
tered Into very small groups. Some
of whom are trying to hide out in
nearly inaccessible places. Tho con
sorship does not permit disclosure
from here of tho positions, but the re
ports, of patrols Indicate that a good
many of Villa's band have been press
ed so closely that they have hidden
their arms and assumed tho guise of
farmers.
This particular cavalry patrol liter
ally rode the mountains" in its chase
after quick news of the two Vlllistas
who had called for food. The patrol,
not wishing to be seen from towns as
it went out, took to the sides of moun
tains where trees, gullies ancL -small
valleys afforded good" "shelter from
view of the plains. The men rodo
through stoop slopes where there
were neither roads nor trails, except
those made by deer and bear. Their
horses slipped and stumbled over
rocks and boulders. Before they
reached tho Mexicans house, snow
obliterated tho trails by which they
had hoped to follow the two bandits
to their hiding place.
At the house the cavalrymen found
only a man about eighty in a red
and green blanket and a young wo
man, with a small baby. The two
men who had called for food, said
the aged man, had left for some place
in the mountains.
Carranza Soldier Balks.
The people of this region give the
American troops just as little infor
mation as possible. A Carranza sol
dier, who had been condemned to
death after capture by Villa at Guer
rero and whose life the Americans
saved, said he was willing to act as
a guide, but balked after leading some
cavalrymen on a long trail in search
of a suspected house. When near the
place ho said he had lost tho trail.
He did not believe he could find it,
he said, and possibly the trail had
been changed since ho last saw the
place. A sharp order Tor him to pro
ceed and locate the house immediately
brought. rPKlllfj;. T4rt wont nlmnc't
straight to tho place.
All Fear Villa.
Fear of Villa, whose reputation has
been like that of a terrible demi-god
in this region, accounts for some of
the peons' reluctance. Mnny of the
Mexicans here show undoubted evi
dence of being Villa soldiers. Noth
ing yet has developed to Indicate so
far these sympathizers will carry their
sympathies into action.
General Pershing In an offort to
convince the people of the Americans'
good Intentions has become to some
extent a judge of petty grievances of
tho Mexicans. Today a scout was
sent to get a cowhide with instructions
that the price would be paid for It
later. He was misunderstood, for
some hours later two very small boys
appeared In front of tho general's
campflre, crying bitterly.
General Pershing Soothes Children.
They talked In monosyllables and
sobs to the general for a long time
before making themselves understood.
Finally the general squatting Mexican
fashion In front oT them, got the state
ment that something, which they con
sidered terrible, had happened to
tholr father's cowhide. They believed
It was not to bo paid for. The genera!
handed them the price of the hide In
Mexican sliver dollars telling them
to take the money to their father.
The prices of the few articles of food
which can be purchased here have
been fixed by General Pershing so
that both tho Mexicans and the sol
diers may not have any cause tor
complaint. Frequently tho Mexicans
are unablo to understand that the sol
diers may bring their cases to the
general who settles them.
The price for eggs has been agreed
upon as five cents apiece, Mexican
silver, and fifty cents per dozen,
equivalent to twenty-five cents a dozen
American money. Other prices are
about In proportion.
oo
New "Residences Zilpha J. Stephens
Is building two residences on Williams
avenue, between Twenty-seventh and
Twenty-eighth street, at an estimated
cost ot $1500 each.
WAR SITUATION
FULLY REVIEWED
Military and Political Status,
Various Means of Warfare
and German-American
Relations Delved Into.
GUARANTEEING PEACE
Dr. Von Bethmann Holweg
Sees Necessity for Broad
Agreements After
War Is Closed.
Berlin, April 5, Wireless to Sayvllle.
In his most comprehensive speech
since the war began the imperial
chancellor, Dr. von Bethmann-Holl-weg,
in the reichstag today reviewed
tho military and political situation,
tho use of various means of warfare
and German-American relations.
The chancellor also spoke of the
questions presented in relation to the
principle of nationality considering
the Polish, Lithuanian, LIvonlan. Bel
gian and Flemish problems. He In
sisted upon the necessity of guaran
teeing the peace of Europe after the
war, and also of securing this resuU
by giving to these races opportunity
of free evolution along the lines A
their natural individualities and moth
er tongues
At the conclusion of the address tha
chancellor elicited trreat aDnlause b
saying:
"Tho spirit of union shall lead us
as It shall lead our children and
grand children through the struggles
of their fathers, toward a future of
strength and liberty."
Revlevs Military Successes.
The chancellor began his address
with a review of the military situa
tion. He stated that since his last
speech In the reichstag the Darda
nelles' enterprise had ended as a fail
ure, that the Serbian campaign, with
the assistance of Austria-Hungary and
Bulgaria, had been brought to a vic
torious conclusion and that Montene
gro and Albania .likewise were now
in the hands of Germany's allies, that
the British attempt to relieve Kut el
Amara In Mesopotamia had been vain,
that the Russians, although they had
succeeding In occupying Erzerum
with superior forces, had found their
advanoc checked by strong Turkish
forces; that Russian attacks against
the- front In East Gallcla and Italian
attacks against the lsonzo positions
had been beaten back. Moreover, he
said, the Russians had drives columns
against the German lines, but tholr
assaults had broken down before
Field Marshal von Hlndenburg and
his heroes.
The chancellor declared that en
emy reports that the German military
force had been expended were proved
erroneous by the Verdun battle.
Attempts to Starve Germany.
Discussing attempts which he said
were being made to starve Germany,
Dr. Bethmann-Hollweg continued:
"I understand that In 1915 our ene
mies would not give up this hope,
but I do not understand how cool
heads, after the experiences of 1916,
can cling to it. Our enemies forget
that, thanks to the organizing pow
ers of the whole nation, Germany Is
equal to tho task of the distribution
of food supplies.
"Our enemies forgot that, In cases
in which there Is a real shortage, the
German nation Is able to make use
of moral reserves which enable us
to lower our standard of life, which
has risen remarkably during the last
decades. What would It mean, for In
stance, If tho consumption of meat
should temporarily bo lowered to the
level of the '70's?"
People Meeting Conditions.
Conditions of life In Germany wero
not easy, the chancellor continued,
but the difficulties were being met
In admirable fashion by the entire na
tion, especially the poorer classes.
"We shall not run short of anything
in the future as we have not done
in the past," ho said.
The chancellor declared it was tho
Intention of Germany's enemies to ex
tend the war to the women and chil
dren of this nation by starving them
and that for this purpose Great Bri
tain and her allies have interferred
with the trade of neutrals.
American Note Not Answered.
"The American note of November
5, 1915, gave an exact description of
their violations of tho nation's laws,"
he continued, "but as far as I know
it has not been answered up to this
day.
"No far minded neutral, no matter
whether he favors us or not, can
doubt our right to defend ourselves
against this war of starvation, which
Is contrary to international law. No
one can ask us to permit our arms
of defense to be wrested from our
hands. We respect legitimate rights
of neutral trade and commerce, but
wo can expect that our duty be rec
ognized to us, all means against this
policy of starvation, which Is a jeer
ing insult, not only to all laws of na
tions but also to the plainest duties
of humanity, must bo used.
Regarding tho Polish question and
the nationalities In general, the chan
cellor sold:
"Nelthor Germany nor Austria-Hungary
intended to touch the Polish
question, but the fato of battles
brought them in contact with It. Now
this problem stands before the world
and needs to bo solved. Germany
and Austria-Hungary must and will
solve It History will uot admit that
after such earthquakes things will
ever becomo what they were before.
"After the war, there must bo a
new Belgium.
"Formerly Poland had been left In
the hands of a Russian police agent,
a man named Tshlnovulk. Even
members of the Russian duina frankly
admitted that Tshlnovnik should not
return to the placo where Germans,
WANT GOVERNMENT
TO STOP SOARING
GASOLINE PRICES
I w& fW
wk - "Www-m
W. S. Howard (top; and H.
Steenerson.
Representative William S. Howard
f Georjria has introduced a resolu
lon in the lower house directing the
aresident to place an embargo on
he exportation of gasoline. Repre
sentative H. Steenerson of Minne
sota has introduced a measure di
recting the federal trade commission
to fix prices on gasoline and allied
oroducts. " , "
AuBtrians and Poles have honestly la
bored in the interests of this unfor
tunate land.
"Mr. Asquith mentions the princi
ple of nationality. If he puts himself
In the position of his unconquered
and unconquerable adversary, can he
really suppose that Germany ever
shall of her own free will deliver into
the hands of reactionary Russia the
nations between the Baltic and the
Volhtynian swamps who have been
freed by her and by her allies no
matter whether they are Poles, Llth
unlans, or Lavonlans?"
oo
GERMAN FORCES
LOSE SROOND
Paris, April 5, 10:05 a, m. In yes
terday's fighting around Verdun, the
Germans lost considerable ground and
again sustained heavy casualties, not
withstanding tho new formation of
their attacking parties.
At 3 p. m., after the ground had
been battered by several hundred tons
debouched from Chauffour wood, just
northwest of Douaumont. The Ger
mans advanced by short hounds to
ward the French trenches, situated
about 300 yards south of the village.
A second and a third lino followed at
equal distances with small supporting
and attacking columns In tho rear.
This formation had been noticed dur
ing tho last few weekB, and Is regard
ed by the French as proof that the
Germans have been sorely punished
In their previous assaults in serried
ranks.
Change Proves Ineffective.
But tho change proved Ineffective.
Tho first lino of riflemen advanced
to within fifty yards of tho French
trenches and there had to drop to the
ground under heavy blasts of shrapnel
and sustained musketry. The second
and third lines attempted to advance
to the support of the first line but
were stopped far in tho rear by ma
chine gun fire.
The Germans in tho 'first lino were
in a very critical position. Shrapnel
worked havoc among them. To
charge was out of tho question and, as
long as they remained at tho point to
which they had advanced, they were
exposed to a decimating fire. The
second and third lines were llttlo bet
ter off, for they were within range
of the French three-Inch grins. The
entire attacking force finally adopted
the only move open, retreating under
a raking fire to Chauffour wood. They
left half their number on the field.
At least three regiments took part
in the attack.
Artillery Piles Up Dead.
Chauffour wood proved to be an In
secure shelter, for the French artil
lery, Increasing Its range, covered
that eutiro area. It demolished shel
ters and plied up the German Iosp
The action of yesterday is regarded
by military critics as of great signlfl- i
cance showing that the Germans, even i
with their new formation, are unable .
to escape the furious responses of 1
French artillery; that the French post- i
Uon8, though they may be vulnerable J
at certain local and exposed points, J
cannot bo shaken and that the French i
counter offensive is effective. h
MORE DIFFICULTIES FACE AMERICANS; I
SUPPLY PROBLEM GROWS SERIOUS I
Carranza Asked to Immediately Fulfill Promise and Permit M
Shipments of U. S. Supplies by Railroad Government M
Buys 108 More Motor Trucks and Two Gasoline M
Tanks Area 6f 1600 Square Miles Confronts M
Gen. Pershing's Forces in Chase for Villa M
I Felix Diaz Is Located in Mexico Jt
Forming New Revolution- H
Washington, April 5. Reports to the department of jus- M
tice indicate that there now is no longer any doubt that Felix
Diaz has landed in Mexico. Officials have been informed that
he is at the head of a considerable force in the south of Mexico
and has received material aid through Guatemala. It is the H
first official information of the revolutionary leader's where- M
abouts. H
"Washington, April 5. Latest devel
opments In the Mexican situation con
vinced administration officials that
the success of the American expedi
tion now largely depends upon the im
mediate completion of arrangements
for the use of Mexican railways.
Officials anxiously awaited a reply
to renewed representations sent to
General Carranza through Special
Agent Rodgers at Queretaro that the
do facto government immediately ful
fill its promise to permit the com
mercial shipment of supplies to Gen
eral Pershing's force by giving speci
fic orders to General Gavlra at Juarez
and other Mexican commanders in
Chihuahua.
More Motors Purchased.
The war department today author
ized purchase of 108 more motor
trucks and two gasoline tanks for tho
expedition. These will be formed into
companies of 27 cars each to main
tain the greatly lengthened lines of
communication with General Pershing.
A dispatch today to the war depart
ment from General Funston definitely
located Colonel Dodd and presumably
the Seventh cavalry on Monday at
Provldencla. The dispatch also In
dicated that General Pershing has
gone far south toward the fighting
front nearGuerrero.
Pershing Praises Dodd.
A message from General Pershing
to General Funston dated April 4 was
as follows:
"Met Colonel Dodd yesterday at
Provldencla and got details of fight
with Villa bandits on March 29. His
exceptional march with the Seventh
cavalry to reach Villa's camp and
work done by that command deserves
high praise."
The order for more motor trucks
is duo to a growing conviction that the
Mexican railways may be of only sup
plementary service 'for the present at
least and that the army will have to
rely upon the overland motor line
from Columbus.
The offer of the Aero Club of Amer
ica to sell two aeroplanes to the gov
ernment for one dollar each has been
declined. The new appropriation of
$500,000 for more aeroplanes made Its
acceptance unnecessary.
Funston Urges Prompt Action.
San Antonio, Texas, April 5. Gen
eral Funston has suggested to the war
department prompt compliance with
his request made a few days ago for
four more motor truck companies. Six
companies now are In service along
the 300 miles line of communications.
If four more are furnished, the quar
termaster's department will have 270
trucks for moving supplies,' but even
with that number the task of feeding
the army In Mexico will remain dun
cult, according to staff officers here.
It was said at headquarters today that
there aro In General Pershing's force
approximately 6,000 .horses and mules.
The average dally ration of grain for
each animal is ton pounds, while 84,
000 pounds of hay is supposed to bo
provided.
Villa Pursuit Grows Difficult.
El Paso, Texas, April 5. The prob
lem of locating and capturing Fran
cisco Villa somewhere within an area
of 1C00 square miles confronts Brigadier-General
John J. Pershing today.
Information from tho front states
that the American troops have been
disposed to the best possible advan
tage but the task of running down
the Mexican bandit in an apparently
widening territory as tho brigand
moves southward Into tho Mexican
Interior becomes increasingly diffi
cult. More troops are necessary is tho
word that comes back from the men
leading the flying columns scouring
the Benito Juarez and Guerrero re
gions for the elusive brigand. Gen
eral Pershing has ordered that de
tachments of Infantry be trained for
mountain climbing and the establish
ment of a sort of American chasseur
corps will likely bo Immediately un
dertaken. The American commander
anticipates a long hunt and Is prepar
ing for It.
QUIIUIl ill l!Ulkd
A Torreon dispatch places Villa at
Mlaca, 90 miles southwest of Guer
rero. If this Is so, the bandit is
probably proceeding along tho old
coach road that leads Into Santa
Posalla which ho could move on to
Parrel, his reported objective.
Through the intercession of Mexi
can Consul Garcia, the executions
of three ring leaders of the conspir
acy of a band of Mexicans to seize
Juarez last Sunday night and declare
for Villa have been stayed. The con
spirators were to have faced a firing
squad In Juarez at sunrise today. The
Bl Paso police are searching for a
score of Mexican conspirators who
iro said to be hiding in this city.
GERMAN ANSWER I
Can Be No Peace on Basis of, jfl
Destruction of Prussian fl
Military Power. IH
ENEMY MUST BEAR GUILT I
Emperors Recounts Victories
of Year and Is Filled With IH
Gratitude to Army and M
Nation. M
Berlin, April 5, wireless to Sayvillo. H
Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg H
indicated in his speech, today that jH
any suggestions of peace on the basis jH
of destruction of Prussian military H
power would make possible only one H
answer the German sword. H
Tho chancellor stated that, If Ger- H
many's adversaries desired to con H
tinue the slaughter of men and devas H
tation of Europe, the guilt would be H
thelr's and that Germany would have H
"to stand it as men." H
The chancellor turned to the sub- H
ject of eventual conditions of peace, H
after a brief reference to the en- H
trance of Portugal into the war. He H
pointed out that In his speech of Sep- jH
tember 9 he had declared readiness jH
to enter Into discussion of peace but H
that then, as now, Germany's enemlea H
declined. IH
Cannot Consider Lobs of Power. IH
"Let us suppose I suggest to Mr. IH
Asquith to sit down with me at a H
table and examine the possibilities of H
peace," he continued, "and Mr. As- H
qulth. begins with a claim of the def- jH
nite and complete destruction of IH
Prussia's military power. The con- H
versatlon would be ended before it H
begun. To these peace conditions H
only ono answer would be left and H
this answer our sword must give. H
"If our adversaries want to con- H
tinue the slaughtor of human beings H
and the devastation of Europe, theirs H
will be the guilt and we shall have H
to stand It as men." H
The chancellor introduced a per- H
sonal touch In the course of his H
speech when he said: H
Reviews Year's Changes. H
"When I was last at headquarters I H
stood with the emperor at a place to H
which I had accompanied him one H
year previously. The emperor remem- H
bered this and .deeply moved, pointed h
out the enormous changes that had H
taken placo since that time. Then H
Russians were on tho ridge of the H
Carpathians. At Gorllce we had just H
begun to break through tho enemy's H
lines and Hindenburg's powerful of- H
fenslvo had just been started. Now H
we are deep In Russia. H
"The British and French at that H
time had attacked Galllpoll and wore H
hoping to arouse the Balkans against H
us. Now the Bulgarians stand firmly H
on our side. Then we were engaged H
in the defensive Champagne battle H
and now, at the emperor's word, re- IH
sound the cannon in the Verdun bat- H
tie. Deep gratitude to God, to the H
army and to the nation filled the em- H
peror's heart." H
SEHODL mm IS I
mm b I
OF OGDEW I
That this part of the intermoun- H
tain region is being considered with H
much interest by the people of the H
eastern states as a possible placo of H
futUTfi rPSlllpnoo nf Ma irrnrolnr minnr. IB
atlon, was tho Inference taken this H
morning by City ticket agent Paul JM
Boomer of tho Uniou Taclflc from a H
letter addressed to the local Union H
Pacific office, by a Fitchburg Miss.. H
school teacher. The communication IH
contained a request for literature do M
cirr'ptive of this section of the coun- M
try, to be used In a school-room and M
was ono of snveral, Mr. Beemer states, 4 fl
received recently. M
This request was complied with M
and it is expected that the children M
in tho Fitchburg school will view the H
pictured scenes of Ogden, Ogden can- IH
yon and the orchards and farm lands M
near this city 'with much Interest M
when they are placed within their H
reach.
