voL. xxviii. MANNING, S. C., WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 1916. NO.14
FIRST GLASH l
VILLA BANITS
COLONEL DODD AND POUR HUN.
DRED TROOPERS ROUT
VILLA.
VILLA WOUNDED, 31 KI.LED
Cot. Dodd's Me iode All Night and
Took Bandits by Surprise.-Think
Chase Near End.
El Paso. Texas.-Four hundred
American cavalrymen under the com
mand of Col. George A. Dodd, galep
ing down from the granite slopes of
the great continental divide, have fal
len on the main body of Francisco
Villa's bandits at the San Geronimo
ranch. scattering therm in many direc
tions and driving the bandit chief,
wounded and crippled to seek a hiding
place in the mountains. Villa was
hurried from danger in a carriage.
The battle opened at 6 o'clock in the
morning of March 29 and continued
for several hours.
The news of the exploit was flashed
Into Juarez and sent a thrill along the
border. For 17 hours the veteran
Colonel with his picked troopers of
the Seventh and Tenth Cavalry, drove
down the valley of the Santa Maria
river. At the end of the 55-mile ride
they fell upon the unsuspecting Villa
camp where 500 bandits were cele
brating the massacre of 172 Carranza
soldiers two days previously at Guer
rero.
Villa, shot through the leg and
with one hip shattered, was hurried
from the scene barely in time to es
.cape the onslaught of the Americans.
The bandits made a brief but hopeless
stand before a charge of Colonel Dodd
and his troopers.
Then they broke and fled leaving
31 dead on the field including their
commander General Eliseo Hernand
Two machine guns, a number of ho
es, rifles, ammunition, and equipment
fell into the hands of the Americans.
Among the known wounded Is Pab
1 Lopez, Villa's lieutenant in the Co
iumbus raid. The American casual
ties were four privates wounded.
The American soldiers did not lin
ger on the field of victory. For five
hours they drove the enemy before
them into the wilderness of mountain
peak, desert and conyon, where roads
or even trails are .unknown and where
a. mis-step means death to horse and
rider. They halted only . after the
chase had led them 10 miles and the
fugutives were scattered into little
bands of half a dozen men each.
Villa's career has ended; his power
has been broken. His death or cap.
ture is only a question of days, per
haps only hours. Such Is the inevit
able conclusion reached here as little
by little th'e details of "Dodd's ride"
reach the border. It seems impossi
ble that the crippled bandit can long
rema hidden, even in the mountain
ous wastes in which he has sought
refuge
SGERMANS SHIFT TO EAST.
Succeeded in Enteripg French Line of
Trenches-Driven Out.
London.--Having captured the vil
lage of Malancourt, the Germans now
have shifted their offensive eastward
4to the sector around the famous Le
Mort Homme. With heavy forces the
Teutons have attacked the French line
between Hill 295 and Le Mort Homme
and succeeded In entering French first
line trenches. A vigorous counter-at
tack by thg French. however, almost
Immediately expelled the Invaders and
another attack by the Teutons deliv
ered a little later Is declared by Paris
to have been put down completely.
The Germans have made no attempt
to debouch from Malancourt since
their occupation of the village.
'Grand Jury indicts Waite.
New York.-The grand jury return
ed an indictment charging murder In
the first degree against Dr. Arthug
Warren Waite, accusing him of poison
ing his father-in-law, John E. Peck,
millionaire drug manufacturer of Gran
millionaire drug manufacturer of
Grand Rapids, Mich.
Plot to Rescue.Schlloer.
Lewes, Del-Fearing that attempts
-would be made to rescue Ernest Schil
1er, the young German stowaway who
single-handed captured the British
steamer Matoppo and terrorized her
crew of 56 men on the high seas, de
tectives took Schiller from his ell in
the town jail and hurried him by auto
mobile to Harrington from where he
will be taken by train to New York.
The detectives declared that they had
received positive information that at
tempts would be inade to rscne the
. grlsoner.
. Ex-Governor Smith of S. C. Dead.
Baltimore.-Former Governor Chas.
A. Smith of South Carolina, died at
the John Hopkins Hcspital after a
long Illness, erysipelas developing af
ter many months. Buffering from
heart-trouble was the direct cause of
death. Mr. Smith had been at the
hospital two months. He was about 56
years old. The former governor's
home was in Timmonsville, S. C. He
was president of a Timmonsville bank
and was prominently known In Bap
tist aduti~tonal circles.
Rememb
AIRSHIPS RAID
ENBUSH COASTS
TEUTONIC AIR FLEETS KILL SIX
TEEN AND INJURED ONE
HUNDRED.
BOMBS WREAK DESTRUCTION
Spread Out on Scottish and Northern
and Southern Coasts of England
and Play Havoc.
London.-'he coast of Scotland and
the northern and southeastern coun
ties of England were attacked by Zep
pelins Sunday night, according to an
official announcement by the secretary
of war.
The announcement says: "A Zep
pelin raid took place Sunday night
when the coast of Scotland and the
northern and southeaster counties of
England were attacked."
London.-At least 16 persons were
killed and about 100 others injured
by the explosion of bombs dropped In
another raid of Zeppelin dirigible bal
loons over the northeast coast of Eng
land Saturday night. -
The official version of the raid
says:
"Two airships approached the
northeast coast Saturday night. Only
one crossed the coast. The other turn
'ed back.
"For the present we know that 16
persons were killed and about 100 In
jured.
"Eight dwelling houses were de
molished and a serious fire was caus
ed in a French polishing shop.
SEARCH MOUNTAINS FOR VILLA.
Nothing Has Been Heard of His Opera.
tions Since Battle.
San Antonio, Texas.--Unless Fran
cisco Villa Is definitely located within
the next day or two, It is believed here
that General Pershing will begin a
search of the mountains west and
south of Guerrero. Since the defeat
of Villa's forces March 29 in and near
Guerrero, lightly equipped detach
ments of cavalry have been sweeping
In whirlwind fashion through the dis
trict about head waters of the Santa
Maria River trying to locate the elus
ive bandit, reported to have gone in
that direction afteP being desperately
wounded.
General Pershing did not get a re
port through to General Eunston dur
ing the day, but his chief of staff did,
indicating that the line of communica
tion was maintained. No mention of
news of Villa was made. There Is In
creasing belief that General Pershing
may have been deceived as to the di
rection taken by Villa and even con
cerning his injuries.
Garard Will Stick Through War.
Berlin, via London.--James W. Ga
rard, the American ambassador, has
ssued a statement through the Wolff
Bureau regarding the report telegraph
ed here from the United States that he
intends to resign, return to America
and becomne a candidate for governor
of New York. The statement says:
"The ambassador regards It his duty
not to leave the Important post at
Berlin during the war, especially as
any possible successor would rot easi
ly work into the difficult and often
complicated matter of British Inter
ests entrusted, such as those of civil
and military prisoners. He hopes to
remain In Berlin at least until the
end of the great war."
Germans Take Thousand Yards.
Berlin, via London.-The Germans'I
official statement announces that Teu
ton troops have cleared 1,000 yards of
French trenches northeast of Harcourt
in addition to the positions taken
March 30.
Enraged Mob Storms JaIl.
Petersburg, Va.-A mob of 1,000 peo
pe, made up largely of enraged citi
ens from Nottoway and Dinwiddie
counties, surrounded the Petersburg
jail in which Is confined John Wil
liams, a negro, who was arrested for
an alleged criminal assault on a young
women, 19, at her home near Black
stone.
Asks Wilson to Demand Reparation.
Pars.-Prof. Jamez Mark Bald
win of Baltimore whose daughter was
seriously injured In the explosion of
Ithe cross channel steamer Sussex,
gave out a copy of a cablegram de-!
spatched to Preisdent Wilson.
It reads:
A woman traveling where her rIght
was, carrying an American passport,
stricken on the Sussex, hovering be
tween life and death, demands that
reparation -for assault on American
lfe and liberty be exacted.
(Signed) "idark Baldwin."
U.S.-Marines Land In China.
Vekng.-MIarines from the United
States gunboat Wilmington went
ashore at Swatow, where the Chinese
troops have declared their independ
ence of the central government. The
detachment reconnr'itered and found
city quiet. A Chinese gunboat also
Is anchored off Swatow, .which is a
seaport -f Kwang Tung province, 120
miles south of Amoy. Chang Chow Fu.
a city of about 900.000 inhabitanis, and
one of the largest In China, M-~s de
clared its independence of t' 3 gov
ernment of Yuan .Shi Ka.
er Clarendon'
METZTS I
ASKS GOVERNOR TO
CONVENE ASSEMBLY
McLAURIN SAYS TIME HAS COME
FOR EXTRA SESSION TO PRO
VIDE INSURANCE.
DISPATCHES FROM COLUMBIA
Doings and Happenings That Mark
the Progress of South Carolina Peo
ple, Gathered Around the State
Capitol.
Columbia.
"I am convinced that the situation
has reached a point where it is nec
essary that you call the legislature to
gether to provide for state insurance"
says John L. McLaurin, state ware
house commissioner, in a long official
communication which he addressed to
Governor Manning.
Gov. Manning said that at present
he had nothing to say for publication
in regard to McLaurin's letter.
Other developments in the situation
arising out of the enactment and ap
proval of the Laney-Odom measure rel
ative to fire insurance were as fol
lows:
Committeemen representing trade
bodies met In Columbia and decided
to engage counsel and bring an action
in the original jurisdiction of the sa
preme court to test the constitution
ality of the Laney-Odom act.
A farmers' mutual fire insurance
company, to operate in Clarendon.
Lee and Sumter counties, was char
tered; this being the third such en
terprise launched since the approval
of the Laney-Odom act.
Commissioner McLaurin furnished
to the press copies of his extensive
letter to Gov. Manning.
Will Test Laney-Odom Act.
Commercial bodies of South Caro
lina through their executive commit
tee have decided to employ attorneys
to test the constitutionality of the
Laney-Odom anti-compact law in the
original jurisdiction of the supreme
court. All agencies, it is thought, will
use their efforts in bringing the case
to the supreme court in the near fu
ture so that the situation caused by
the withdrawal of practically all the
fire insurance companies from the
state will be clarified.
This decision was reached by the
committee in a session which com
menced at noon and was continued in
the- afternoon. Fits Hugh McMaster,
Insurance commissioner, and James
A. Cathcart, president of the South
Carolina Fire Underwriters' Associa
tion, appeared before the committee at
its request. All members of the com
mittee were present. Thy are: Wil
liam M. Otis of Columbia, chairman;
Rawley W. Holcombe of Columbia,
secretary; B. F. McLeod of Charleston.
eorge H. Edwards of Darlington and
. E. Child of Whitmire. The meet
ing was held In the rooms of the
hamber of commerce.
Through the assistance of members
f the committee. Mr. Otis will appoint
ounty chairmen. who will be dele
gated with authority to c-all mass
meetings of business men, farmers, in
surance agents and legislative dole
gatons. Should the law be found
onstitutional. it is pointed out that
further steps by the ecommercial in
terests of the state will be available 1
through the concerted action of these1
ounty agencies. 1
Ward for Tubercular Women.
Members of the state board of :
health, meeting In Columbia. awardedJ
a contract for constructing a ward for ,
women at the state tuberculosis camp':
near State Park. to the Taylor-Waters
Construction Company of Columbia.
The contract price is $4.500.1
The bids for the' construction of
the new unit have been opened and
work is to begin as soon as possible.
A fund of $5,000 was appropriated
by the last general assembly to add
an additional ward at thle state
camp- The ward for men has been in:
use for a year.
The new ward, which will be con
structed of brick and wood, will ac
commodate 20 patient: a~i will b--::
vided with every modern convenience.
Manning Approves Textile Acts.
Gov. Manning approved two acts of
Importance to the textile industry in
South Carolina.
One of the acts provides for a week
ly pay roll in all textile concerns and
the other Is the 60 hours a week law.
The fine for violation of the weekly
pay act is not less than $100 nor more
than.S200. This act will go into ef
fet July 1.
It was brought out at the hearing!
before the governor that the weekly
pay act will affe" ab ut 50 per cent'
of the textile plan 4.h state.
Gymnasium Almost Completed.
'The gymnasium which will cost
about $60.000 is almost completed and
it will be one of the finest in the
South." said D. W. McLaurin. who re
turned to Columbia after attending a
meeting of the board of trustees of
Winthrop College at Rock Hilil. He
said only routintu matters were con
sidered. Mr. McIaurin said the fac
ulty was expecting a large attendance
for the summer eshool for teachers.
"Rock~ Hill is m:4king great prepara
tions for the meeting of the veteran4
next montth," said Mr. McLaurin.
s Big Celebra
AND from C
County Prisoners A;o inspected.
The secretary and the assistant sec
retary of the state board of charities
and corrections since August 4, 1915,
ha-e visited every county penal and
charitable institution in South Caro
lina except about 12 chaingangs. Re
ports on these inspections have been
made to the board and, except in the
counties visited very recently, detail
ed accounts of the findings aid rec
ommendations of the agents of the
board have been sent to thre officivais
who have these institutions in charge
and to other interested perso.s.
Having gotten for the board t
charities and corrections a firsthand
view of the administration, physical
equipment and method of treating
>risoners, convicts and paupers in
practically every county institution in
the state that cares for these classes,
the secretary of the board and his as
sistant will undertake the important
work of fixing standards.for these in
stitutions and getting them introduced
through the co-operation of county of
cials who are in 'charge of them.
[n fixing the standards for county
penal and charitable institutions, the
agents of the board will be governed.
by the standards in force in other
states in county jair. almshouses and
chaingangs, and by what th:- have
seen in the best of these institutions
an South Carolina.
During the coming months the
agents of the board will undertake a
sstematic study of the cost of main
taining penal and charitable institu
Lions in counties in different parts of
the state. Whether or not the county
,haingang system of road building Is
excessively expensive has been a wide
,y discussed question in the state of
ate. It is expected that the investi
rations of the agents of the board will
ielp materially in deciding this matter.
Need Repairs at Cedar Springs.
Mandamus proceedings will be
brought in the supreme court to force
the comptroller general to pa: a i'
f $10.000 for repairs at the Cedar
Springs institute for the deaf, dumb
and blind. An error in the general
appropriation bill caused the attorney
general to rule that the comptroller
;eneral had no right to pay out the
rund without a court order. Solicitor :
ill of Spartanburg will represent the
school at the hearing. The comptrol
der general will be represented by the I
attorney general. The petition for
the writ of mandamus will be filed
with the court early next week.
Want Home for Feeble-Minded.
Lecturing to the Associated Chari
ties on "The Problem of Feeble-mind
edness." Albert S. Johnstone, secre
tary of the state board of charities
and corrections,. said that the board
was trying to make the public realize
that the problem of protecting the
mentally deficient existed, that it had
indertaken to catalogue as many of
the white mentally deficients as pos
sible. and that it intended to lay be- 3
ore the next general assembly the
acts it'had gathered with a view to
aving the state establish an institu
:ion in which feeble-minded white peo
ple could be cared for permanntly.
Dispensary S'ocks Are Sold.
L. L. Bultman, former state dispen-1
;ary auditor, said that practically all
)f the surplus stocks held by the late.
ounty dispensary systems had been
lisposed of by the county boards
r'he average price was about 50 per
~ent of the real value.
eath Rate High, Birth Rate Low. ]
Not only is the annual death rate
'or negroes In South Carolina larger
han for white people but the annuali
,irth rate is smaller, according ,to fig-]
ires completed by the bureau of vital
tatistics. The death rates, based on
-eturns for 1915, are: For whites,
2.6; for negroes. 17.4. The birth
-ates are: For whites, 29.1; for ne
~roes, 26.7. One hundred and thirty
Iine homicides were recorded.
Of the 24,501 deaths occurring last
rear in South Carolina, making an an
iual death rate per 1,000 population
f 15.2, 9,141 were white people, 15.350
v-ere negroes and 10 were Indians.
Chere were 44,950 births, distributed
is follows: White males, 11.015;
hite females, 10.127; negro males,
L2.110; negro females. 11,512; Indian
nales, 2; Indian females, 184. The
mnual birth rate for the state is 28.
NJew Enterprises Are Authorized.
H. A. Taylor, Inc., of Columbia has
been commissioned with a capital of ~
10.000. The petitioners are H. A.
aylor and Emma D. -faylor.
The Consolidated Garage of Char
eston has been commissioned with a
apital of $10,000. The petitioners
are Hugo Jahnz and E. A. Jahnz, Jr.
The Summerton Drug Company has
been commissioned with a capital of
2,000. The petitioners are C. V. Du
Bose and L. W. Carrigan. 1
A charter has been issued to the
'rood Hope Realty Corporation of
harlston with a caital of $25,000.
rhe officers are: J. J. Murray. presi
lent, and Walter B. Wilbur, secretary
and treasurer.
The Pastime Amusement Company
>f Lake City has been commissioned,
with a capital of $2,000. The petition
ers are: A. Weaver, J. P. Matthews, j1
. T. Hamer andA 3. M. Truluck. 4
The Rydemont _Company of Spar-|2
anburg has been chartered with a cap-iC
tal of $3,000. The officers are: - 3.| 1
P. Robertson. president and treasurer,
and . R. Robertsori, Jr., secretary.
The secretary of state has issued a (
eommisson to the Commercial banki
af Estill, with a capital of $25,000.I
The petitioners arc: S. M. Clarke, M. 1
E. O'Neal, E. H. Wyman and W. E. f
Peeples. jC
tion to be hek
:harleston wi
CATTLE SAES
PROVE SUCES
PRCMCTERS ARE HIGHLY PLEA
ED WITH MARKETING OF
CATTLE.
MANY BUYERS ARE PRESEN
Representatives of Well Known Cc
cerns Make Good Bids-Railroads
Play Important Part.
Rock Hill.-Rock Hill's first catt
sale was a success. This was t)
pinion expressed by State Afent I
W. Long and his assistants and by
number of the buyers here for t
sale. Tt guarantees that Rock H
will hr.ve an annual cattle sale, sa
Sir. Lonv.
Between 250 -nd 300 head of catt
were sold, the price per pound ran
[g from 5 to 7 3-4 cents. The av(
ge weight of the cattle was aroui
60 pounds. The sale netted the ow
rs of the cattle something over $1
)00.
The cattle yards, in the ta
rounds, were the scene of great a
tivity throughout the entire mornin
. score of buyers were here to mal
bids, while a number of railroad
cials' were present. Hundreds
people from all parts of this and a
joining counties were here for to
sale and much interest was taken. 1N
ong is of the opinion that the ne:
:attle sale held here will see mo:
than 500 head of cattle offered,
lot a thousand.
'The sale was conducted under t
lirection of the local *chamber
:ommerce and the extension divisic
>f Clemson College, co-operating wil
:he United States department of a
iculture. In active charge of t
;ale was E. Driver of E. Driver
,o., commission merchants of Bol
nore, who handled nis end to perfe
ion.
Among the buyers here for the sa
vere George Morris, head buyer f<
). B. Martin & Co., Baltimore; Cha
es McDonald, head buyer for Swi
i Co., New York; L. B. Lyman, Ne
Fork, and New York Butchers Dres
ad Meat compnay, represented by
3. Lyman; David Regan, representir
ulzberger & Sons Co., New Yorl
3elsford Packing company, Harri
)urg, Pa.; Mr. Welckens, representi
Velckens-Staats & Co., Wilmingto
)el.; G. H. Shamberg, representing
Shamberg & Sons,. Jersey City sto<
rards, N. J.; Mr. Dayvault, represer
ng Dayvault & Guffy, Concord, N. C
V. R. Sanders, representing Carsc
ive Stock company, Richmond, Va.
Another Mutual Company.
Colrmbia.-Farmers Mutual Pr
ection association of Sumter, Clare:
Ion and Lee counties, South Carolin
as been commissioned by the secr
ary of state to do a general fire lasu
nce business. This Is the third m
:ual fire insurance company to be c
~anized since the anti-compact la
vent into effect.
The petitioners of the company arn
C. Strauss of Sumter, H. C. Hayn
vorth of Sumter, E. W. Dabbs
Wayesville, Robert M. Cooper of Wi
eky, NeiN O'Donnell of Sumter,
3. Phelps of Sumter, 3. al. Kolb
sumter, G. A. Lemmon of Sumter, 3
5. Sanders of Sumter and C. J. Jac
on of Toratio.
F. H. McMaster, 1nsurance cor
nissioner. said that 15 mutual fil
nurance companies were already
>peraton in the state. Four of ther
nutuals are 'jocated in Charlesto:
he total amount of insurance ca
ied is about $17,000,000. The fir
nutual fire insurance company
outh Carolina was organized
Thester county in 1S01 under an a
f the legislature. W. B. Dove, no
ssistant to the secretary of stat
was one of the promoters.
Chester Gains Population.
Chester.-Chester county's total<
iirths and deaths last year was
ollows: Births, 824; deaths, 482, th
iirth rate 28.2 per cent and the deat
ate 16.1 per cent.
Place 'Stock For Packing House.
Orangeburg.-The special commi
ee that is working to place the stoc
f the Orangeburg packing hous
mong the largest number of peopJ
eports that it has placed all the stoc
xcept about $10,000, which will 1:
old to farmers in Orangeburg cou1
y. When the matter of a packin
ouse was brought to the attentlo
f the business men of Orangebur
a an amazingly short time $50,00
orth of stock was subscribed an
iarnteed. After details have bee
.rraned erection will begin.
Coal For South America.
Spartanburg.-The development<
he coal traffi: through the port<
harleston is indicated by the at
louncement that the Clinchfield Fui
ompaily is to load at Charleston wit]
1 the next few days an 8,000 to
teamer for a South American por
any cargoes have been shippedt
~uba and to gulf ports through th
cuth Carolina port since the cot
iers were erected a few months ag<
ut the presint announcement is th
[rast of ccal going to a South Amer
an country..
I in Mannir
11 Furnish l
MISS VIRGINIA SAUNDERS
.
le
t.
a
ie
ill
id
le
,r
C- Mist Saunders Is state sponsor South
Carolina Division U. C. V. who hold
their annual reunion in Rock Hill
this year.
* STATE SHOWS BIG GAIN
t akes Considerable Advance in Manu
*e factures and Also Shows An
I Increase of Capital.
Le Washington.-A gan of almost $30,
)f ,000,000 or 17 per cent of capital in
in vested in the state in.1914 over 1909
h indicated by figures 0f the 'United:
!- States census bureau made public here
te when statistics for South Carolina
k were shown.
:i- The population of South Carolina at
c- the census of 1910 was 1,515,400 and
it is estimated that it was 1,590,000 on
le July 1, 1914.
>r The summary shows that consider
r- able increase at the census of 1914, as
't compared with that for 1909. In the
w order of their im.portance, from a per
s- centage standopint, the increases for
.. the several items rank as follows:
,g -Materials, 37.2 per cent; primary
; horsepower, 23.1 per cent; value of
s- products, 22.7 per cent; salaried em
g .ployers, 21.7 per cent.
a, The capital invested, sw-eported in
J. 1914, was $203,211,000, a gain of $29,
k 990,000, or 17.3 per cent, over $173,
t. 331,000 in 1909.
n Plan Big Event at Spartanburg.
Spartanburg. - Prospects are very
bright for the 22nd annual Spartanburg
music festihal, which will be held May
,. 17,'18, 19. Annguncement is made
1. that Walter Damrosch, dean of Ameri
1. can conductors, and the New York
s- Symphony society orchestra, which
r. ranks second to none in the world,
,. have beeni secured for their eighth en
r gagement In the premier musical
Sevent in the Southern States, Some
of the most noted stars on the oper
.atic and concert stages have been en
.gaged to sing. The Converse College
~Choral Society and the children's
~chorus' are larger than ever before, the
Llater 200 voices, 550 In all.
The roster of artists as announced
7 by Edmon Morris, dean of the school
.of music of Converse College and di
rector of the festival, follows: Miss
a- Tilly Koenen, contralto; Miss Laura
e Combs, soprano; Miss Anna Case,
ncolature soprano; Mrs. Merle Tillot
son, Alcock, contralto; John Camp
ebell, tenor; Theodore Harrison, bai
tone; Robert Maitland, bass.
Face Losses Bravely.
nLexington.-Facinlg a fire loss esti-.
mate( t $100,000 or more, Lexington
,began to look to the future of the
town. The burned district, It is as
sured, will be rebuilt and Lexington
people are hopeful that the new struc
tures will be better than those which
the flamez swept away. The loss is
entirely a matter of estimates so far,
s and it can not be accurately placed
e until there is a final checking up. It
is believed that the insurance will
amount to about 40 per cent
SOUTH CAROLINA NEWS ITEMS.
k Congressman Byrnes has announced
e two successful candidates for Annapo
e lis-'Murray Smith and C. B. Johnson.
k both of Williston-as the result of re
e cent examinations held in Aiken.
1 IThe Benevolent and Protective Or
g der of Elks will hold Its state conven
tion in Spartanburg May 17, 18, 19, at
the time of the Spartanburg music
0 festival.
dThree fires have' occurred at Thorn
I well orphanage within the past two
.weeks.
The jury in the case of Miss Louise
Lowe vs. L. T. Lester, Jr., Tom
fWright et nl., at Spartanburg, a suit
ffor an automobile which Miss Lowe
-claimed she won as a contestant, ren
I dered a 'verdict in favor of the plain
- tiff.
L Congres~s has passed a bill authoriz
.ing the naval militia of South Caro
0 ia to use the government Immigra-!
e tion statiou.which was erected at
. Charleston fcur years ago and which
,has neven 'een occupied since its com
e pletini
IThe state firemen will meet in
Orangeourg June 20. 21 and 22.
Ig---FIELD DA
Ausic for the
ROYAL'
BAKING POWDER
Absolutey purg
No Alum-No Phosphate
FIELD DAY
Friday, April 14th, 1916, Beginning at 10:39 O'clock.
Following the plan of last year. the county is d'vided into the
following groups for the purpose of selecting rep; osentatives to
take part in the Declamation contests; also for the atheleticcontests. p
Pinewood group, consisting of Pinewood, Paxville, Big Branh
Home Branch, Silver, Grange Hall and Pineland schools.
Summerton group. consisting of Summerton. Davis Station-;
Oak Grove, Cross Roads, Panola and Jordan schools.
Sardinia group, consisting of Sardina, Enterprise, Harmony-:
Oakda le, New Zion, (consolidated) Barrow, and New Harmony
Schools.
CZTurbeville group. consisting of Turbeville, Coker, Gamble="
Hicks. McFaddin, Barrineau, and Sunny Side schools.
Manning group, consisting of Manning, Alcolu, Trinity,$a
vin, Foreston, Wilson, Baywood, Thigpen, Mission, Green Savan4 :
Deep Creek, Bear Creek, and Line schools.
Each school is entitled to send a boy and a girl representative; ?
for each classification to the group contest event.
Each school group is entitled to select from those contests :
two representatives, a boy and a girl, for each classification tota e
part in the Declamation contests at the Gene-al Field Day o
The-teachers of the schools in the respective grotups are'
pected to confer and arrange a date before the general field day-t
"try out" their representatives, and thus select one boy and on,
girl for each of the following divisions:
Class A-Boys and girls fuder 12 years of age.
Class B-Boys and girls fi om 12 to 15 years of age.
Class C-Boys and girls from 15 to 18 year-s of age.
In order for the schools not to lose time from the regular
school work, it is suggested that a Saturday be used as a-try out:
event.
The various school groups may provide prizes for the;winner
if they so decide.
The winners at the General Field Day will be given appr
priate prizes, some of which will coat of gold medais.
It will be seen that the plan thisyear causes boys to -compet
with boys, and girls with girls.
ATHLETICS.
The athletic sports will'take place immediately after the di
ner hour. and will consist, for.the-Boys. of.Running'%igh
RundifgBroad Jump, Standing Broad Jump, and racing. 'ts
50. 75, and 100 yards, .according to age as per the declamation
contests
For Girls there will be racing contests, and such other
features as the committee may determine at the time. Prizes to be -
awarded the winners.
LITERARY FEATURES. -
Written examiaations will be held at Manning on. Saturday
April 8th., in which each school at large in the county will-be .en-i
titled to or~c representative for each feature. Examination to beg
gin~ at eleveu o'clock, and close at one o'clock. No pupil permitted
to take more than one examination. No one permitted to enter aften z
12a o'clock.
Spelling, 5th and 6th grades, 50 words from Hunt's Syere
Book 2.
Spelling, 7th grades and up, 50 or more words, selected mein
y from Payne's Common Words Commonly Misspelled.
Arithmetic-Common fractions. planned for 5th and 6t
grades.
Arithemnetic-To cover cornmon and decimal fractios .. planned
for 7th an'd Sth grades. -
Algebra-Up to factoring, planned for 7th and 8th grades.
Algebra-Factoring and fractions above 8th grades.
Gramm~ar-Kinard-Withers. Book i, planned for 5th grade <
Gramamar-Kinard-Withers, Book 2, planned for 6th and 7th
grades.
No conitestant capable of the more advance work, permitted
to compete in the lower subject. The contestants must actually
be students in the books specificed.
Composition work for the more advanced pupils on the ques~
tion of "Preparedness"-Way or why not should the United States
provide a large army and navy? Each contestant can tike either
side of the question. The best compositions, two from each schodol
should be sent to die County Superintendent by April 1st. -The
winners will be announced on Field Day, April 14th. Suitable
prizes will be awarded.
In case any school in the county has to close its session before -
any of the dates specified, the teacher should plan to have thed
school representented, and the contestan~-ts to attend the groupQ
event. There will be no need for any school to be deprived of any
the advantages offered.
Baseball, Basketball, and other enjoyments to complete the
day. Let all come prepared to get thxe most possible out of all, the
features.
For any additional information. Address the County Superin
ent of Education.
Romance. TeGnlmn
They v -re at a tea on Morningside &afishdpouttegolma
-she extremely pretty and engagingsemtodeerhigvyesly
despite the fact that sh v~s buin tes lk h ae ftehb
Teachers' college, and he an carr-caonyoebyeor.e sodf
est student of the law. They had scr;btwaee i ttoh
really gone quite far along the plea&as- o ons.fr omnee s
ant road of~ romance. He inquired scal eueb itee fh
civilly what degree she pursuied. "I a ont eakig h eto
aspire to be an- M. R. S.,"~ she repliedgetea 5hepas.rottrtb Zz
demurely. "I dare say it's hard," he nhsoceyadntIniswto
answered absent-mindedly. Hours vru fhslann.bri hr~
afterward unlier the green-shadeddiaysclretonwthh. A&'
light in his own room it all came thi laueh azitgv eey
hi sddnt yseing ton -doerhng er aity;
sociallyl 1 th 1916.ybit, vn fh
Occasioaln.aios ih im
thspesrehjadt iemr
