I TODAY'S PRICES
HOME EDITION
r
r ,. 4 t. i nahs Mil
i 1 . urt nr- " . p r -ih t
II inn 11 ,u t iliaii t " .
" i - ,ri'ii- high r --
LAIF.ST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
ILL A
Col. Brown and Command
of Negro Troopers Defeat
Villislas in a Canyon.
GEN. PERSHING IS
AT SAN GERONIMO
Villa Is Reported Fleeing
Xorth and Americans Tafe
Steps To Surround Him.
By GEO. H. CLEMENTS.
Am t
ti, i.
Nunnn
i t ED Base Punitive Kxpedi-
I nitcd States Army, Is ear
unnqtnpa, Ihihuahiia, Mexico,
' 4 (Rv Jtajii. to Columbus, X.
Mil I. v ami, loth cavalry, has rc-
ii tin) Rubio in a message to Gen.
mil- that l'ol. Brown, 10th cavalry,
' 1 a band of illistas in San An-
i unoii near Vguas Calieutes (Hot
- April 1, while the latter were
nil? tlirir noon meal. The natives
ii I to Mbj. hvahs that between 30
4'i nun and as many horses vacro
( i 'I Brown sent nu details.
Manuel Baca Killed.
i li.iltli' l- lulu-ved to be the same
hi v l.icli Mann.'l Baca, the Cor-
iniirderrr, was ri-poitvd killed by
i ii i-ta.
lieu- trem San flornnimo, where
IVr.-liinc is now lot at ml. are to
I
1 1 .it that forces popularly supposed
1
operating in v ilia s interest In tlic
I mifthi countrv have been hopelessly
- iii ml and'evtm t!ie small lands of
ni three to 20, into which they, have
' i hrt.ken, are being so ruthlessly and
limit -sly pursued bv the Americans
H iluv are being given no oppor
,1111 to rest themselves or animals.
Villa Fleeine North?
I In re is a story to the effect that
ilia wounded, is traveling in a wagon
mIi a small escort of his once famous
i. in1 of "Dorados" ((.olden Ones), and
ill it lie is heading north.
1 In story is not git en credence by
i ii Americans, but tuev arc taking
ti precaution to cat h him and his
trt in a net if he has undertaken
- t k seclusion under the delusion that
i . mum body of pursuers are laboring
ii It the impression thrft he is trying
i;t t to Ihirango or some other south-
-tati where he might surround him
1 1 w it h his old time followers.
Troops as Far West as Sonora.
I mop, mounted and on foot, have
ii ijispatched in every direction, and
w i alley and pass in the mountains
niion the border and a point a few
Ii i north of the city of Chihuahua
in ! as fa i west as the Sonora line are
mg patroled and the canyons between
in bod as with a fine tooth comb.
Gl V. IX IS OUTIKRKEZ in a Me
2 ram dated April 4 to Gen. Ga
l.i is I litiira. of .luarer,. confirms
r port that Villa is fleeing toward
tit in, and that lie is wounded. The
i intitiication reads:
ilia. i fleeing, senouMy wounded.
1 1 lias divided his forces into several
j ii U and tliey are moling in different
lint turns.
i have mobilised our forces as fol
' us. i.iii Luis llerrcra. near Bustiltos;
i n ava7os is on the heels of the
in in v anil according to report that is
v. r,t mr on Moudav he should hae over
i.ik.n him by daybreak (Tuesday raorn-
i.m. Benjamin C.arza should have ar
nieil at Satevo and there cut off Villa's
lurtliiT retreat south.
"i ni. JcMis Hernandez, .with a con-
.It ruble li.rce, left this morning (Tues
dat i at daybreak to take possession of
tiin.i, Santa Uertnides and other points
in .irbv and cut off the retreat of tlfc
i iiemv in thai direction. I will give
Mm the results of this movement later."
Tvvo Villa Lenders Killed.
Cen (iaira has learned that Villa
was not only wounded In the engage
ment at Guerrero, but that JSleglo Her-
index and Roman Taranio. two of his
ihief officers were killed outright.
The telegram from Oen Gutlerres to
i.fn dHira states that a captain and
int. soldiers who hail been cantured bv
Villa and his men at Guerrero escaped i
it'll had arrived at Santa Isabel and
-, ive an account of the Guerrero en--MB
nunt The niep were from the
Morel.- brigade that was under th
i ttmmani) of Col. balaz They any that
ilia with 200 men went toward the
Llanos of San Ju.ui Bautlsta.
The men under the Villa genera'.
I'.iblo Lopez (who is reported dead)
ie now under fandelai-lo Cert ante
incl number 200. Julio Acosta a seionil
"f Villa's chiefs is with a band of 20
men in the mountains of Guerrero
while Martin Lopes Is with 100 men n.
ihe vicinity of Bach'.nlvi.
Reported KngnEeincntN.
Gen. Benjamin Garza communicates
lo Gen. Gutierrez fiom Laja do Aba
jaoo that a bunch of stouts from the
i onstitunonalist fori en engaged a band
tf Viiliatas recently m that localltt and
touted the bind am)
iptliretl then I .,,,
i ifles The mcRsngi
us that lit Vteii- .
(tontlmted en rase . Col. A)
I
T
enth Cavalry S
WITS
El Paso Real Estate Is the
SINGLE COrT n
CAPTURE DEPENDS ON RAILROAD
FRENCH BREAK
nil lis
111 II. 5.
Chancelor Declares Stories
of Westward Aggression
After War "Silly."
Berlin, German, April 5. (By TVlre
leas to Sayvllle. L. I.) in his most
comprehensive apeecn since the war
began the Imperial chancelor Or von
Bethmann-Iiollweg. In the reichstag
today, reviewed the military and po
litical situations, the use of arloua
means of warefare and German-American
relations.
The chancelor also spoke of the ques
tions presented In relation to the prin
ciple of nationality, considering the
Polish. Lithuanian, Livonlan, Belgian
and Flemish problems. He insisted up
on the necessity of guaranteeing the
peace of Europe after the war. and al
so of securing this result by giving to
these races opportunity of free evolu
tion along the lines of their natural
Individualities and mother tongues.
At the conclusion of his address, the
chancelor elicited great applause by
saving:
"The spirit of union shall lead us,
as It shall lead our children and grand
children, through the struggles of their
fathers, toward a futujre of strength
and HbertsV
Denlra Menacing V. S.
"The latest off-spring of the calu
mniation campaign directed against us
is a report that we, after the end of
this war. shall rush against the Ameri
can continent and that we shall at
tempt to conquer Canada.
"This is the silliest of all the Impu
tations invented against us. Equally
sills- are the report that wo contem
plate the acquisition of any territory
Ion Am
any Ar
"We
American soil as in Brazil or in
American country whatsoever.
flgut for our existence and foe
our future. For Germany and not for
space in a foreign counti y are Ger
many's son bleedhsg and dying on the
tiattlefield.
"Everyone-among us knows this ami
It makes our hearts and nerves strong.
This moral force strengthens, our will
in order not only to weather the storm,
but also to achiete final victory."
Cnnt Destroy I'msslanlsin.
Chancelor von Bethmann-llollweg
Indicated in his speech that any sug
gestions of peace on the basis of de
struction of Prussian military power
would make possible only one answer
the German sword.
The chancelor stated that If Ger
many's adversaries desired to con
tinue the slaughter of men and de
vastation of EurODC the guilt would
be theirs and that Germany would have
to "stand it as men."
Mill SoUr Polish Problem.
Regarding the Polish question and
the nationalities in general, the chan
celor said:
"Neither German nor Austria-TIun-garv
Intended to touch the Polish ques
tion, but the fate of battles brought
them In contact with it Now this
prolilem stands before the world and
needs to be solved. Germany and Aus
tria must and will solve It. History
will not admit that after such earth
quakes things will ever become what
thev were before.
"fter the war there must be a new
Belgium.
"Formerly Poland had been left In
the hands of a Russian police agent, a
man named Tshinotnik.
"Kven members of the Russian dum.i
frankly admitted that Tschiaovnik
should not return to the place where
Germans, Austrians and Poles liave
honestly labored on the interest of this
unfortunate land.
Won't Yield t Russia.
"Mr. Asqulth mentions the principle
of nationality. If he puts himself in
the position of his unconquered ami
unconauerable adversy. can lie reallv
suppose that Germany eter shall of hr
own free will deliter Into the hands of
reactionary Russia the nations between
the Baltic and the Volhynian swamps
who have been freed by her and by her
allies no matter whether they are
Poles, Lithuanians, or Livonians?"
Chnnges Yenr Has Brought.
The chancelor introduced a perso
nal touch in the following passage"
Mr-od with the emperor at a place to
which I had accompanied him a ear
previously. The emperor remembered
this and he was deeply moved as he
pointed out .the enormaus changes
that bad taken place since that time.
Then the Russians were on the ridge
of the Carpathians At Gorlice, we
had Just begun to break through ths
enemy's lines and Hlndenburg"s pow
erful offensive had Just been started.
Now we are deep In Russia.
Knlser Feels Beep (.rnlltiiile.
"The British and French at that
time had atacked Galllpolt and were
hoping to arouse the Balkans against
us. Now the Bulgarians tand firm
ly on our side. Then we were engaged
In the defensie Champagne battle,
and now, at the emperor's word, re
sound the cannon In the Verdun bat
tle. Peep gratitude to God. to the
army and to the nation filled lh
emperor's heart'
SPANISH AND BRITISH
SHIPS SUNK BY SUBMARINE
London, tug.. April 5. The Spanish I
steamship Vigo, was sunk in the bay .
of Biscay bv a German submarine, ac-
. ordlng to a Lloyd's report. The crew
was set adrift in a boat and later picked
uP l5 th. British steamship Polo and
Uk.n to Gilnaltar. I
I.li.jrt's also reports the slnVing of
the Biitlsh st.amshiii Beinlcw with the.
loss uf one of the crew.
ITlI.Vs Yt lt UIMsTKlt
ii s iti:sj:.M:i. is hiipoutkd.
Rome. Italv, .xprll ;. It is reported
that Gen Zupelli, minister of war. has
resigned on account of til health and
Hint tlfn fjrtlrt Unrrnit. emt.m.i niler nf
.rnl, r0ins. will suci eeil dim Gen
Mfierl it i. -airi ,n ,e rained under
seen i.ii i,f stati.
B CENTS.
ma
The War At a Glance
I
X evident determination not to
permit the Germans to retain the
ground they won recently in the
ground they won, recently in the
Vaux-Douaumont region northeast
of Verdun, the French are contin
uing their violent atacks here. Pa
ris today reports that ground was
gained north of Paillette wood in
several engagements Tuesday
Several small infantry engage
ment!)' have- taken place In Lor
raine, the Germans being repulsed
by French artillery and machine
gun fire.
London reports the sinking of
the Spanish steamer Vigo, by a
German submarine in the Bay of
Biskay. The Dutch echooncr Elsi
na ICelfa has been torpedoed in
the North Sea and the British
steameV Bendew has been sunk
with a loss of one member of the
crew.
Swiftness With Which Na
tion Mobilizes and Maneu
vers Army Astonishing.
The Hague. Holland, April 5. At the
opening of the second chamber of the
Dutch parliament Tuesday after a pre
liminary secret session in committee,
the president of the chamber read a
brief statement declaring that the re
cent suspension of furloughs of army
orricers and men was a precautionary
X?!": ?" "oI1nrt '" "rrnly resolved
"f?.mf in ef neutrality and there is
possibility of Increased Sanger owing
to the course of the war. K
90 SUSDenslon Bnlr h. .4,f.4
F act a. consequence, of nrwent nolitlaal
emaagieoiaiite. but waaflaaMlin ubon
on aecourn. orcerrHIn 'n'rrAtf-t-irtilrh I
.reached tha goverhmenOHBnTCTThet
w..,uull ,,uos not judge opportune
at the present moment to make public.
Holland Acted (iulckly.
London. Eng.. April 6 ."Holland
bared its teeth to the belligerents on
both sides so unexpectedly that the
Dutch public was as much astonished as
the remainder of the world." said a
prominent neutral Just returned from
Amsterdam, to the Associated Press to
day. This person, who enjoys exceptln
al opportunities for obtaining reliable
Information stated that not only was
the Dutch army mobilized, but actual
maneuvers were held as If to repel
forces landing from the North sea in
me neignoornoou or Flushing.
Mol.llintlon Is Suit.
The mobilization was accomplished
swiftly. Virtually every private motor
car In the country was seized While
mobilization took place along the Ger
man frontier, maneuvers were held only
along the sea coast. To add to the ex
citement, the troops massed men and
guns along the Belgo-Dutch frontier
near Antwerp as If In preparation to
repei an invasion from tnat direction.
Holland Is Becoming Sullen.
The returned neutral Is convinced
that the demonstration was aimed at
Germany as much as England. He
stated irritation in Holland aealnst all
belligerents had become so pronunced
that there was a sullen feeling of hos
tility toward both Germany and Great
Britain which was becoming general
throughout the country.
Fond Shortage Acute.
On account of the British blockade.
Holland is experiencing shortage of
food to such an extent that the Ameri
can commission for the relief of Bel
gium hss been asked to loan some of
Its food supplv to certain districts Tha
Dutch government has determined that
food shall be transported to Holland
in vessels commandeered by It without
reference to any limitation fixed by
agreement with the Netherlands Over
seas Trust.
FOOD RIOTS ARE REPORTED
IN CONQUERED RUSSIAN TOWNS
Petrograd. Russia. April 6 Accord
ing to information received from
Dvinck, serious food riots are taking
place In Russian towns now occupied by
the German army. It Is reported from
Vilkomir that a hungry mob, having
plundered the shops in vain for bread,
marched to German military headquar
ters and besieged the commandant,
clamoring for food.
On being informed that nothing could
be done to help them, the population
became furious and hurled cobbletones
at the commandant and his staff. A
street battle e.isued between the mob
and German patrols in which a consid
erable number were killed or wounded.
ni:i,invn aiihricns must
IIAVK Ulim OS bl'Mv SHIP.
Washington. D. C April 5. An of
ficial' report on the sinking of the
steamship Berwindvale off Queenstown
was received toda at the state de
partment from an American consul .it
Cork, but officials declined to reveal
Its contents. It was believed that one
,or more Americans were aboard or no
such report would have been sent.
,r,!c",.u'rJr ""ising n pi"i. '"
a" callers toaay ana women on w.e
accumulation of evidence of Ceimaa
submarine activities.
ixiniiiivi, .urn t
,,'U "''V'iV.'vr "I', Y.iViiwivm tl.l"
SIMCI.M. Ol- JIISHYtl.MJV ll.l.
Berlin, Hermann. April . James W.
Gerard, the American ambassador. ha
sent an inquiry to the German foreign
office concerning the sinking of the
steamship Berwindvale off QueOnstoitn.
NKW BUSS C'fMniADKR.
London. F.ng . tpnl 5 neuter's T'e
tiograd correspondent savs Gen Brusil
off, commanding the eighth armt, ha
been apjiolntetl lOtnm.inder in chief of
the .limits of the south western front
in sunession to Gen Itanuff.
HOW RDf
FOR AN lin
EL PASO. TEXAS. WFnNRSDAY EVENING.
TORCE ens
TO ABANDON
HEMES
Musketry and Cannon Fire
Paralyzes the Advancing
Lines of the Enemy.
FLOATING MINES
ARE EXPLODED
Fifteen Aerial Engagements
Fought; Three German
Planes Wrecked.
PARIS, France. April 6. The French
gained ground north of Caillette
wood, northeast of Verdun in the
course of several engagements during
the night, the war office announced this
afternoon.
The text of the communication fol
lows: "In the Argonne there has been a
combat with hand grenades in the
sector between Bolante and Fllle Morte.
We caused the explosion of two mines,
which damaged an cnemv trench.
"West of the Meuse Tuesday night
passed relatively calm. Bast of the
river we took part in several en
gagements during the course of which
we made progress in the connecting,
trench north of Caillette wood.
"In the Woevre there has been an in
tense, bombardment between Moulaln-
mUt and Cha,t)Uatu The Gsrrodns threw
,B, "
""""
use north ol St. aiUUtt Z3
eeiWlOmted dnWf amTVere
exploded by us without causing: any
damage.
Bnemr Is Tlirorm Bark.
"Tn the Lorraine the Germans, after
a violent bombardment of our positions
between Arracourt nd St. Martin, de-lieve-ed
several small Infantry attacks
againt various points in this sector.
The enemy was everywhere thrown
back by our machine guns and artillery.
"In the Vosges a reconalssance In j
force on the part or the enemy, en
deavoring to reach our trenches south
east of Celles, was easily dispersed.
15 Airplane Combats Fought.
"In the region of Verdun, French air
planes on April 4 engaged In no fewer
than lr. aerial combats during the
course of which a double motored Gar
man machine was brought down near
the Pond of Hauts Fourneaux. Another
German machine fell down near the
wood of Pllly and a third German air
plane fell -vertically to the ground. All
the French pilots got back without suf
fering damage.
"During the nights of April J-4, one
of our aerial squadrons threw down 1 1
shells on the railroad station at Nantil
lois and five others on the barracks of
the enemy at Damvillers."
Germans Change Style of Attack.
In Tuesday's fighting around Verdun
the Germans lost considerable ground
and again sustained heavy casualties,
notwithstanding the new formation of
their attacking parties.
At S p. m , after the ground had been
battered by several hundred tons of
projectiles, a thin line of riflemen de
bouched from Chauffeour wood, just
northwest of Douaumont The Germans
advanced by short bounds toward the
French trenches, silenced about S00
v.irds south of the village. A second
and a third line followed at equal dis
tances with small supporting and at
tacking columns In the rear. This for
mation has been noticed during the
last few days, and Is regarded by the
French as proof that the Germans have
been sorely punished In their previous
assaults In serried ranks..
Change Is Ineffective.
But the change proved Ineffective.
The first line of riflemen advanced to
within SO yards of the French trenches
and there had to drop to the ground
under heavy blasts of shrapnel and
sustained musketry. The second and
third lines attempted to advance to the
support of the first line, but were
stopped far is the rear by machine gun
The Germans In the first line were In
a very critical position. Shrapnel
worked havoc among them. To chnrge
was out of the question, and as lone
as they remained at the point to which
they had advanced thev. were exposed
!S.aJd,;cima"nK flre- The second and
third lines were little batter, off, for
they were within range of the French
three-inch guns. The entire attacking
force finally adopted the only move
?'IetreatlnR under a raiding fire to
Chauffeour wood They left half their
number on the field. At least three
regiments took part In the attack.
.., ri"mnn Midlers Demolished.
( hauffeour wood proved to be an In
secuie Mlidter, for the French artillery
increasing its range, covered that en
tire area, it demolished shelters and
Dlld up the German losses.
The action of Tuesday is regarded by
mllitarv critics as of great significance.
showing that the Germans, even with
their new formation, are unable to ts
cape the furious responses bf Vrench
ar-tilleiy that the French positions,
though thet mat be vulnerable at cer
tain local and exposed points, cannot
be shaken anil that the French counter,
offensive is effective
MlRMKOIW SHIP RK
I SI Mi HY SlIlMVHIVn
London, Kng, April 5 The crew of
the Norwegian steamship Arena has
In en taken to Ynimden bv the trawler
Clue t neuter dispatch from Tnulden
-- the Arena, ttas torpedoed and sunk
ni i liCiin.iii Slinuiarine
Best Investment In
APRIL 5, 1916.
rl M I It 11
UP FOE'S 1
AMERICAN AR1! IN 110 Ii
IN GREAT PRAISE SEME 10 OOP
Five Chaplains, Representing Many Denominations Lead
Service for Men Representing Every Faith; Religious
Hymns Are Followed by Familiar Songs Led by
Soldiers; Service by
By GEO. H,
TiIELD Headquarters Punitive Expe-
r dition United States Army, Xear
Xueva Casag Grandes, Mcx., April
2, Via Columbus, X. M.. April i, by
Automobile Devotional exercises under
al fresco conditions are always interest
ing; that is the psychological reason for
the popularity of the "camp meeting,"
the chaulauqua and other forms of re
ligious grove gatheri-igs. Particularly
interesting, not to say inspiring, were
the services held this evening in uim
great military camp along tlie tree bor
dered banks of the historic Kio Casas
Grandes.
Held in Great Grove.
In a vast grove of grandeur, in the
light of gleaming camp fires, hundreds,
not to sav thousands, of men who be
fore another Sabbath day may dawn
may have found surcease for sorrow in
a soWicr's grave, gathered to join in
songs of praise, of a higher power than
tlwt conferred by mere men or to give
assent by means of hearty "Amens" to
the prayers voiced by the several chap
plains who officiated at the ioint serv
ices held under the grand old trees.
Jews were there and gentiles, and the
latter represented all the sects of Oiris
tendom Catholics, Methodists, Baptists,
Episcopalians, Lutherans, Campbellites,
Presbyterians; if a roll call had been
insisted upon, all wpuld have beeirfound
represented.
Five, Chapjains Hold Sernce,
3d"aj. J. A. HndoJpli. ehap&ln of the
SfctlTi infantry. 1y virtue of libTTank',:
presided at the joint services, and with
Kim around the empty rations box,
which did duty as a pulpit and alter,
stood Capf. LuU. Lutheran, chaplain of
the 13th ravalrv. Capt. father Joyce,
Roman tatholic.'the "fighting padre of
the Fourth artillery, and (.apt. Moose,
chaplain of the Seventh cavalry.
Ihe present e or the ikws in KiiaKi in
TRAIN WRECKED
AT SOiRERETE
Villistas Endanger Chance
of Peaceful Surrender
in Laguna Region.
Torreon. llexico. April 5. Efforts to
arrange the surrender under an am
nesty grant of Gen. Canuto Reyes and
other Vlllista leaders of the Torreon
district are being hastened. Mean
while it is reported that a band of
Villa supporters have completely alien
ated the band's cause in the neighbor
hood of Sombrereto by wrecking a pas
senger train.
- This took place last Thursday, a num
ber of people being killed. Sombre
re fe Ilea between Durango City and
Canltas on a branch of the Mexican
Central railroad.
Following Gen. Rev es's offer to make
peace with the Carrancistas, on the
ground that he was weary of useless
bloodshed. Gen. Trevino, military com
mander here, named a peace commis
sion to confer with the chieftain. This
commission returned today from a
meeting with Reyes, reporting that no
agreement had been reached. Gen
Trevino will insist, however, that all
the Villa leaders must surrender In
side a ten-day limit and that he will
deal with them Indivldually
Hilarin Rodriguez and a number of
less important generals are with Reyes
and are expected to come In with him
if terms are agreed on.
After several days Interruption, train
service has been resumed between here
and Durango. It is believed here that
the bandits who wrecked the train near
Sombrerete were remnants of the Ar
gumedos Zapatistas.
Torreon Is quiet.
MAIL FOR AMERICAN TROOPS
TO BE SENT THROUGH JUAREZ
Arrangement, nie being made with
the postal officials of Juarez for the
transmission of mail to the American
aoldlers over the Nurthwesitei n rall
lrat! Mexican ii)niil ndres Garcia
called upon the pnstina.ster of Juarez.
Wednesday morning relative to the
handling of the mail for the soldiers
and it is thought everything will be
adjusted by the time that a train de
parts f..r Vluclei.i and Casas irr.llldes
on Thin Mint
DIAZ IN SOUTHMEXICO;
AIDED FROM GUATEMALA
Washington. 1). C. April j Reports-
to the department of Justice
indicate that there now is no longer
any doubt that Felix Diaz has landed
In Mexico Officials hate been In
formed that lie Is at the head of a
considerable foite in the south of Mex
ico anil has received material through
Guatemala.
It is the first offn ial information
of the rc olutionart 1. uler s werea-
oouts.
MWHMIK SO CIJNTS A MONTH.
umn
River Bank in Grove.
t-SVB
CLEMENTS.
a foreign country aud the possible con
sequences to each was the basic theme
of the addresses of the chaplains and the
boys in khaki gave strict heed to the
words of the speakers, but it was when
Maj. Randolph suggested that the fa
vorite songs and hymns be sung that
the rank and file of the great audience
began to display wideawake interest in
the proceedings.
The Favorite Songs.
"We Shall Gather at the River,"
seemed to be the favorite with a ma
jority of the musical inclined among
those gathered at the sernce, and, be
cause of its appropriateness, because of
thp fact that the meeting was being
held on the banks of a river, it was sung
with particularly good effect and re
peated many times before giving way
to other selections.
"I am not a follower of Billy Sunday
in all that term implies.'' said father
Joyce, "hut i do like Billy Sunday's
favorite hymn, 'Brighten "the Corner
Where You Are,' and I am going to ask
all of you to join in singing it. There
is an optimism expressed in that hvnin
which makes it helpful to man. Sing
it with a will and as though you be
lieved in it, and in its spirit.'' And the
boys did as they were told. The song
was sung under circumstances which
gave it a significance which will make
ven enthusiastic' Billy tjuuday wish he
might have- bees present to hear it.
" r Religious 'Songs Hot Only tines.
The song sen-jee was not eonfimra to
the singing of religious songs. Maj.
Randolph' had asked the boys to sing
thejr favorites and when one of the lads
struck up "Shannon River" or ''The Girl
I Left Behind Me," the chaplains not
only let it go at that, but when they
knew the words, chimed in and added
tneir voices to
the general burst of
uieiuuv.
Before the evening was over, nearly
every song having a meaning to a man
or boy far from home and mother, espe
cially on a mission which might event
uate in his never seeing either again,
was sung and held the crowd around
the constantly replenished camp fire till
time for "taps."
If Villa can escape the net which Gen.
Perusing and his fighting men have
spread for him from one side of Chi
huahua to the other, he will have made
the appellation "Fox" as applied to him
in old bandit days take on peculiar
significance.
LINES
Figures on Herald's Circulation
TWICE a j ear the United States government by law requires a statement
of the circulation of dally newspapers covering the six months periods
ending respectively on April 1 and October 1. No penalty attaches to
making a false 'statement even under oath In this matter, and the advertising
publlo is still obliged to judge as to the responsibility of the individual signing
the statement, and the genera) standing and reputation of the newspaper he
represents. A sworn statement of circulation made to the government under
this law is not necessarily true.
False circulation statements have been made to the government repeatedlv
by certain newspapers, bnt the government takes no effective steps to ascertain
the truth or to punish the Individual making false oath in this connection.
Consequently It remains with the advertiser to satisfy himself by personal
Investigation or by other suitable means, whether a newspaper's circulation
statement to the government Is true or false.
Following is The Herald's statement to the government under date of
April 4, 11S. showing an average dally NET PAID circulation for the six
months pf 18,704.
STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP. MANAGEMENT. CIKCVT-TION,ETC.,REQ01UCD
BY THE ACT Ol" COMIRESS OF AUGUST SI, 191.
Of El Paro Herald, published daily at El Paw. Texas, for April I, 1Mb.
State of Texas, Cuuntj of Kl Paso. ea.
Before m. a notary public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally ap
peared H. D Slater who. having been duly sworn sccordiag to law. deposes and says that
heN!s the edUor of The Kl Paso Herald, and that tha following Is to the best of
his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management (and If a daily
paper the circulation), etc . of tha aforesaid publication for the date shown la the above
caption, required b the Act of August 24. 1912. embodied In section 443. Postal Laws and
Regulations, printed on the reversa of thla form, towlt-
1 That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and busi
ness managers aro,
,.N,me ot Portofflce address.
Publisher, Herald News Co , Incorporated El Paso, Texts.
Editor and Managing Editor. 1L D. Slater . El Paso. Texas.
Business Manager. J C. Wllmarth El Paso, Texas.
2 That the owners are: (Give names and addresses of Individual owners, or. If a cor
poration, give its name and the names aad addresses of stockholders owning or holding 1
peicent or more of the total amount of stock.): H. D Slater. J. C Wllmsrth. H. U Caps 11
miiie. ii. b. oievens. j. a. amlltt. j. j JHunay. waters Davis, M. C McGlennon Eaiate.
Jv F. Pajne. G A. Martin, all of El Pao; If. A True of Denver. R C Canby of New York
Clty: lolin P. Ramsey of Charlotte, Vt Herald News Co.. Incorporated owner.
s That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or
holding 1 percert or more of total amount of bonds, mortgagee, or other securities are. The
bonds of the Herald News Co are payable to bearer and present ownership is unknown,
they were sold orlitinally through hankers and others In various cities north and east. In
cluding St LouN Chicago Grand Rapids, New York. Kansas City. Janesvllle, Wis.. Wash
ington. V C . a-ml Springfield. Ill . a few were sold In El Paw other securities held by
First National Bank ot El Paio. tnd Goes Printing Press Co. of Chicago
4 That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholder
and security holders, if unv contain not only the list of stockholders and security holdert
us they appear upon the hooks of the company but also. In cases where the stockholder or
serurttv holder uppears upon the books of the coinpanv as trustee or.la any other fidurian
r'ntion the name of thy pervon or corporation for whom such trustee Is acting. Is given
hIh that the suld to paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant's full knowledge
and belief as to the cir umstances and conditions under which stockholders and security
holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and ar
curlties In a capacity othei than that of a bona fide oivner: and this affiant has no reason
to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has anv Interest direct or Indi
rect In tne said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him
That the average numl.er t.f cople- of each issue ef this publication sold o- dlstne
uied through the mall or otherwise, to paid subscribers during the slv months preceding
the oate shown above Is is 701. iThis Information l required from dailt publications on't
'that the average dailj actual distribution for the m-v months is 20.571 cople.
H. D Stater. Editor
-worn tti and ulici .bfd 1 -fure me this 1-i.urth dav of April. 191 ;.
IStil P TV Still. Notiry Publlr
t M . ummlsslon expires June 1. 1517
XOTK The Herald is the only Kl Paso newspaper that is a member
of the Audit. Bureau of Circulations and that submits to an annual audit by
that, great national association; the Times was allowed to withdraw from
tin- association last fall after that paper's grossly fraudulent circulation
stati mints h.nl 1 rn analyzed by the Audit Bureau ami the irauds exposed
in Ihe Audit Hurt an a report to members.
the Country Today
WEVTilKR. initEr 1VT.
I ra ami wrt Tea, partly rloudr;
Nfvr lfeilro, tnlr. cold north; Arizona,
fair, colder central portion, front.
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
Need Of Shipments Is Imme
diate' U. S. Wants Gavira
Notified By Carranza
108 MOREMOTOR
TRUCKS ORDERED
Pershing Meets Col. Dodd
At Providencia and Gets
Details Of Fight.
WASHINGTON TX c. April I
Latest developments in the
Mexican situation convinced
administration officials today that the
success of the expedition largely de
pends upon the immediate completion
of arrangements for the use of Mexican
railways.
Officials anxiously awaited a r"pl a
renewed representations sent to tj.
Carranza, through special agent UuU-.-ers
t Queretaro. that the defacto gov
ernment immedlatelv fulfill its promise
to permit the commercial shipment of
suDOllea to Gen. Pershing's forces by
giving specific orders to Gen. Gavira at
iTuarex. and other Mexican commanders
TSThlhtnihTiB.
To Buy More Trucks.
The war department today authorized
the purchase of 108 more motor trucks
ana two gasoline tanas xor me expedi
tion. These will be formed Into comna-
nirs of 17 cars each, to maintain tho
greatly lengthened lines of communica
tion with Gen. pcrahme.
Perahlna- Praises Dodd.
A dispatch todav to the war depart
ment from Gen. Funston definitely lo
cated Col. Dodd and presumably the
Seventh cavalry on Monday at Provi
dencia, about 10 miles south of Santa
Ana. The dispatch also indicated that
Gen. Pershing has gone far south to
ward the fighting front near Guerrero.
A message from Gen. Pershing to Gen.
Funston, dated April 4, was as follows.
"Met CoL Dodd yesterday at Provi
dencia and got details of fight with
Villa, bandits on March 29. His excep
tional march with the Seventh cavalry
to reach Villa's camp and work done by
that command deserves high praise."
Tracks Will Be Needed.
The order for more motor trucks ii
due to a growing conviction that the
Mexican railways may be of only sup
(Continucd on pase S, Col. 3.)
