THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 18.
BARRE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
COUNTER
STROKE
GAINS
the world's history, the chancellor made
n interesting comparison with German
finance, declaring that while Groat Brit
ain waa raising more than 300,000,000
annually by taxation, the secretary of
the German imperial treasury, I)r. Helf
fcrich, waa announcing "doubtful in
crease" of 24,(XM),0iM).
Explaining hi financial methods, Mr.
McKeuna indicated, his desire to ovoid
anything requiring . new machinery for
itt collection, which would prove costly
and wasteful. Equally he desired to dis
tribute the necessary burdens fairly over
the whole community. He said he was
aware of no historical parallel in other
countries for the willingness displayed;
by the people of Great Britain to submit
cheerfully to the tax gatherers exac
tions, but it would be a mistake, he add
ed, to drive this spirit of public sacrifice
PEACE FEELER i
IS ADVANCED
BY GERMANY
French Continued to Shove too hard.
Back the Germans North accused of auto theft.
Of Caillette Wood in SeV- George E. Glasser Arrested in Burling.
( Office Reports
GERMAN OFFENSIVE
HAS LOST IMPETUS
eral Encasements During ton u,t Niht-
t. . . T-i iir J Burlington, April 5. George E. Glas
tne JMgni, rrencn War ser, who claimed to have been held up
on EShelburne road last tail, wnen a goou
sized wad of money was taken from his
pocketbook, jumped into the police lime
light again late last night, when he was
arrested on a warrant made out by
State's Attorney Theodore E. Hopkins,
I charging him with the theft of a Cole
car, which he has been offering for sale
I in this city. The car in question waa
stolen from Buffalo, N. Y- last November
and certain evidence tends to prove that
lit is the one now in possession of Glas
CMith ftf TV.iifMitTir.rif. ft Ger- ' Glasser,' however, claims that he
tiruwi vr W,l,t , , i .1d. minnar mH
man Attack Was Hurled Paid ,or u- He also-claims that he has
i payers ui Btt.n uuu. iiibuiiivt: .., I'Rj'ci
TtarlV anr. the l.erman which will prove It
' lesterdav afternoon Glasser was in
Lines Were Driven in Dis- this city with the car, but took it to
Vergennea and later returned without it.
Order Toward Chauffour He was arrested at the Walker block
i laie last nient, lie was new wunous
Wood West Of the MeUSe bl by the police department over night
ana to-aay an omcer wm oe sent to ver
gennea with him and the car will be
brought back to this city.
On the Z3d of last October Glasser
went to the police office with a story
of having been held up on Shelburnc
road by two men, who after they had
forced him to stop his car, went through
his clothes and took $72 in cash. The
police investigated the case and found
the man's coat, wallet and a robe on
KtinlkmHiA Mail 4V.n .1- 11 V VukinfV ,1 I
. , l ' lisiuid lip li'nu, hut: 1.B... W in uiu t .
the Meuse there were no eents oi xh highwaymen never attempted a like
portance. Twenty mines which had been hold-up afterwards. It is understood the
thrown into the Meuse at St. Mihiel by mair has been dealing in second hand
Ua nA-mona wora Bvnloiled hv the
FIGHT PRECEDED SHOOTING.
Sons of Charles Leighton Told of Fracas
at Sharon.
Woodstock, April fi. In the Leighton
murder case, Newell C. Leighton, 1U, son
of Cliarles Leighton, who is now on trial
for killing A. C. Gibson, was put on the
stand for the defense. His evidence tend
ed to show that when he learned that
some men and teams had gone up int.)
their sugar lot he went there also and
found men loading logs. When he or
dered them away they persisted in load
ing the logs and told him he did not
own them and that the Leightons stole
them from O'Donncll. When the witness
kicked the skids away from the sled,
Fred Spaulding hit him on the shoulder
with a cant hook. Newell grabbed the
cant hook out of his hands and the v
had a clinch. Finally Nei.cll waa struck
I with a cant hook on the hark by Wheel
MUST HAVE USE
OF RAILROADS
Would Mean the Sword
It Was Quiet
Paris, April 5. The French gained
ground north of Caillette wood, north
east of Verdun, in the course of aeveral
engagements during the night, the war
office announced this afternoon. West of
DECLARES ALLIES ARE
KEEPING UP THE WAR
Chancellor Von Bethmann-
Hollweg Asserted in the
Reichstag That Any Sug
gestions of Peace Which
Included Destruction of
Prussian Military Power, .j-tS STtoTu
feet. Then Wheeler grabbed him by the
collar and pulled him down. Spauldmg
got on top of him and Wheeler kicked
him in the nose and in the mouth, so that
they bled.. Newell showed the scar on
his nose to the jury.
They ordered Newell off the premises
and he went, but sani he would return.
He went to the house and got his rifle,
came back and told them to stop loading.
They did not stop and he told them if
they did not stop he would shoot. Then
he discharged his gun with the muz
zle inclined upward. Immediately after
that Mr. Gibson appeared. About half
an hour later Newell's father came and
met Mr. Congdon. His father told Cong
don to unload the logs, and he refused.
Then standing face to face with Cony
don he said:
"You unload those logs or I'll knock
your head off."
At his father's direction Newell then
unloaded the logs. His father then said:
"We'll go up into the woods and get
the rest of them."
On the way up Newell told his father
and his brother, Waltei, what had Imp-.
pened and his father took the gun from
Or Villa Will Get Away, Say
United States Officials
WAS MUCH WRANGLING
Among Attorneys Incidentally,
Eleanor Saia Was Tried.
Mrs
URGENT REQUEST
TO CARRANZA
Chancellor Also Protested
Vigorously Against the
Assertion That Germany
Has Any Designs on the
United States or on Canada
Berlin, by wireless, April 5w Chancel
lor Von Bethmann-Hollweg protested
vigorously in the Reichstag to-day
That He Order His Com
manders to Permit the
Shipment of Supplies
against the report that Germany now or; him. When they got there Gibson, Fred
French with no damage.
The French official statement last
night told of the repulse of a powerful
German attack against the first lines of
the French south of Douaumont. The
etatement reads as follows i
"North of the Aisne and in the Ar-
gonne our
TO HELP SMALL CHURCH.
Baptist State Convention Trustees Ap
propriate Large Amounts.
Rutland, April 5. The trustees of tne
Vermont Baptist state convention met at
me -.. . v.o tne HoteI i3ariiweii nere yesterday for
butteries effectively .helled their ,emi.aiulllsI ,eion ,nd voUi in-
tne enemy organizations. creases in appropriations to some of tha
"West of the Meuse an enemy attack . k. v.ji i
on the village of Haucourt eompletely , need rf flnancU, 8i,Uncer The Ver-
JAa. L.nnAa tlfVl TPti itf AA
of the day the bombardment was re
mimed with great violence between jtou
aumont and Vaux. The Germans launched
a very powerful attack against our first
lines about 300 metres soutn ot tne vu-
laize of Douaumont. The successive
waves of the assault, which were fol
lowed by small attacking columns, were
awept down by our curtain of fire, and
the fire of our machine guns and infan
try forced to retreat in disorder in the
direction of the Bois Chauffour, where
our artillery, concentrating its Are, In
flicted considerable losses on the enemy.
"North of the Caillette wood our
troops continued to progress in the
course of the day.
"In the Woevre there was an artillery
duel in the sectors at the foot of the
Meuse hilla.
"In the VoBgcs, after a spirited bom
Viardmont of our positions southeast of
Feppois, the Germans attempted to ranch
our trenches, but were driven back to
their own lines by our barrier fire.
DISABLE GERMAN WARSHIP.
Was Towed in Afater Heavy Cannonad
ing Had Been Heard.
Copenhagen, April 4, via London, April
5. A naval engagement of some kind
took place Monday in the Cattegat, afr
cording to dispatches received here from
Kullen, Sweden.
About noon, the dispatches say, a ter
rifle qannonade was heard from the sea
and two hours later a German torpedo
boat, badly damaged, waa towed past
Jlelsinborg.
ITALY HAS NEW
WAR MINISTER
General Morrone Appointed to Succeed
General Zupelli, Who is Said to
Desire Active Participation
in War.
London, April 5. A Stegani dispatch
from Rome says that King Victor Em
manuel has accepted the resignation .if
War Minister Zupelli and has appointed
General Morrone to succeed him. ft is
stated that General Zupelli desired to
participate in active operations. IU wa
appointed minuter of war in October,
1014.
BRITISH PAYING CHEERTULLY
the West Charleston church $100 from
the Ripley fund.
Rev. Dr. W. A. Davison of Burlington,
superintendent of the convention, was
elected an agent for the Sutton church
propery and to deed property at Newport
Center to the church.
It was voted to join tha Congregation
alists and Methodists in support of an
eyangelist to work in all of tho small
towns of Vermont. The trustees elected
ex-Gov. and Mrs. W. W. Btlckney of Lud
low, Col. and Mrs. 8. A. Isley of Mid-
dlebury, Mr. and Mrs. Fred H. Dicker-
man of Bristol, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Bond
of Chester, Dr. H. D. Holton of Brattle-
boro and Rev. Dr. and Mrs. W. A. Da
vison delegates to the northern Baptist
convention, which meets at Minneapolis
May 17 to 25.
in the future contemplated aggression
against the United States.
The chancellor said: "The latest off
spring or a calumniating campaign di
rected against as is the report that we
shall attempt to conquer Canada. This
is the silliest of all imputations invented
against us.
"Equally silly art the reports we con
template acquisition of any territory on
American soil or in Braxil or in any
American country whatsover. We fight
for our existence and our future. For
Germany and not for space in a foreign
country are German's tons bleeding and
dying "
Von Bethmann-Hollweg indicated in
hit speech that any suggestions of peace
on a basis of the destruction of the Prus
sian military power would make possible
and Solon Spaulding and Will Morse
were sliding logs down the hill, and two
teams were loaded with bass-wood logs
cut on his fathers farm.
Newell heard his father tell Gibson to
get off his premises and unload the logs.
They were all running for his father and
bad cant hooks. Solon Spaulding struck
Newell with a cant hook and Newell
struck at him with a stick, which he
called a pry. Fred then came with a
cant hook and Newell struck it out of
hands. He ran and Newell after him and
got him by the collar. They were stopped
by running into a tree. While running
around the tree Newell heard a shot,
looked around and saw Gibson sink to
the ground. There was no more fighting
after that.
Walter, the older son, 21, gave some
testimony, but became so affected he ,
could hardly talk and had to stop. He
Washington, D. C, April 5. The latest
developments in the Mexican situation
convinced the administration officials to
day that success for the American ex
pedition now largely depends upon the
immediate completion of arrangements
for the use of the Mexican railways. The
officials were awaiting the reply to re
newed representations sent to Carranr.a
asking the de facto government immedi
ately to fulfill its promise to permit the
commercial shipment of supplies to
Pershing's forces by giving specific or
ders to General Gavira at Juarea and
other Mexican commanders in Chihua
hua.
The war department to-day authorized
the purchase of 108 more motor trucks
and two gasolene tanks for the Mexican
expedition.
General Funston sent no further do-
tails to-day of the latest engagement of
the American troops with Villa forces
near Aguas Calientes.
40 MEXICAN
CASUALTIES
IN NEW CLASH
was allowed to retire without finishing.
Mr. Leighton was called and-told of
- ii i i x i . ... ,
only ne answtf German nm.M"wm"unaf WA no"" 'n n"
. , (face all blood and nose disfigured and
, . getting nis gun. mic then sent Wallace,
sired to continue tha slaughter of men 12 yMrs old, for the -father and Walter.
and the devastation of Europe the guilt
will be theirs and Germany would have
to stand it as men.
DUTCH SHIP
TORPEDOED
IN NORTH SEA
DEATH OF GEORGE F. SWASEY.'
Native of Bethlehem, N. H Had Lived in
Montpelier Seven Years.
George F. Swasey, a native of Bethle
hem, N. H, and a resident of Montpelier
lor seven years, died at his home, 143
Mhin street, in that city this morning
after being ill since last July with
Bright's disease. Funeral services will
be held to-morrow morning, and the body
will be taken to Miller's Falls, Mass.,
where the funeral will be held and the
body will be buried.
Mr. Pwasey would have been 68 years
of age next Mlay. He was the son of
George and Adelia Swasey of Bethlehem,
and his early life was spent in that
town. For many years he waa engaged
in the lumbering and contracting busi
ness in Maine, being located in Portland
and Brunswick, as well as in Boston.
Seven vears ago he moved to Montpelier
to become a salesman for the Lane Man
ufacturing company. He was a member
of the Elks lodge and the Congregational
church in Montpelier.
He was twice married and Is survived
by his second wife and by a son, George
A. Swasey of Boston, the child of his
first wife. A son born to the second wife
died at the age of eight rears. He also
leaves two sisters, Mrs. P. O. Biimhant
of Boston and Mrs. E. M. Tartridce of
Miller's Falls, Mass. His wife and son
will accompany the remains to the last
named place to-morrow.
Official Statement Made at The Hague
Ttlla of Disaster to the Schooner
Elhina Helfa Other Subma
rine Victims Reported.
The Hague, Holland, April 5. It is of
ficially announced that the Dutch schoon
er Elhina Helfa waa torpedoed yesterday
In the North sea. The crew were
brought to Noorhinder.
She had told Newell of the teams up in
the sugar lot, which led him to go up
there.
Wallace Leighton told of seeing Neweli
with his face all blood.
NO OBJECTIONS RAISED.
To Railroad Siding Desired by Boutwell,
Milne k Varnum.
Two of Vermont's public service com
missioners met in the court room at. city
hall Tuesday afternoon to conduct a
hearing on the petition of the Barre &
Chelsea railroad for the right to lay a
side track from its air line to a corner
of one of the Boutwell, Milne 4 Varnum
quarries in upper Graniteville. Chairman
Kobert C Bacon was not present at ths
hearing, but W. R. Warner of Vergennea
and W. A. Dutton took part in the brief
proceedings.' They were accompanied by
their clerk. State's Attorney F. E. Glea-
son appeared for the 'State and Mayor
London, April 8. The Spanish steam
ship Vigo of 1,100 tons has been unk in
the Bsv of Biscav hv a Gurmin subma
rine, according to Lloyds. The crew took James M. Boutwell of Montpelier rep
to a small boat and were later picked up
by the British steamship Polo and taken
to Gibraltar. Lloyds also reports the
sinking of the British steamship Bendew
with the loss of one of the crew.
The crew of the Norwegian steamship
Arena of 1,000 tone have been taken to
Ymuiden by the trawler Clare. A Reu
ter dispatch from Ymuiden says the
Arena waa torpedoed and sunk by' a Ger
man submarine.
HOLLAND PREPARED
TO MAINTAIN
HER NEUTRALITY
Recall of Men to the Army Waa Caused
By Information Which Had Canted
Uneasiness for the Govern
ment, The Hague, April 4, via London. April
S. At the opening of the second cham
ber of the Dutch Parliament to-day, aft
er a preliminary secret session in com
mittee, the president of the. chamber
read a brief statement declaring that
the recent euspension of furloughs of
army officers and men was a precaution
ary measure, as Holland is firmly re
solved to maintain her neutrality and
there in a possibility of its incurring in
crrased danger owing to the course of the
war.
ine suspension order, he added, was
not in consequence of present political
entanglements but was decided upon on
account of certain information which had
Are Meeting Special War Taxes Well, ; meeting yesterday afternoon it was voted ! reached the government and which the
Says McKenna. S aujtiorie the erection of a new school-; government does not judge opportune to
noiise. tne expennnure not to exceei make public at the present moment.
inuon, .i tii .i. ... pi- a.-,,) A special tax of 25 rents on the
lem of finam ing for another year a war a)ht of the grand list will be levied,
n ... , h, i,,,, to be provided for by tem-
exchequer. Reginald ; p,,,., ., ,intil the next session of the
NEW 150,000 SCHOOL.
Voted at Richford, to Be Paid for By
Bonds and Loans.
Richford, April 5. At a special town
costing Great Britai
the ehanifllor of the
McKenna, was m t at the outset by two
favorable circumstances, namely, that
owing to the expensive power of British
trade, the revenue for the year exrwded
the etimated revenue by jC32.0O0.rtn.
vihile the year' expenditure had been
31.0OH.s" b.low the estimate.
By imposing new taxes on amuse
ments, railway tickets, ntatche and min
eral waters, and raising a number of the
old taxes, including those on ex-ea war
profits, incomes. uar. cocoa, c.ffee Bad
legislature when authority will be asked
for issuing bonds to retire such loans.
SHELL INQUIRY REFUSED.
ALLEGED TO BE A THIEF.
Wilmington Man Arrested and Held for
Hearing.
Brattleboro, April 5. State's Attorney
O. B. Hughes waa informed yesterday by
Deputy Sheriff Walter F- How of Wil-
. Hiilig vn -a aw ww Pl A ln T ,ll'rIW
Canadian House of Commons Rejected," th,t " th charge of breaking
Resolution. ,ana evnng iw general store of mn
O. Wara, a Wilmington merchant.
Ottawa, Ont April 5. The demand of On reaming of the arret, two of Ala
Sir Wilfred Iurier, opiuitia leader, . rero'a companions left town. His hrota
for investigation by parliamentary com- er in law. Frank Arduk. left for Litrta
motor cars, the chan.-vllor etimat- tHat 1 ""' of all purchases and contracts of Falls, cherting a trunk to the same plaoe.
be will be able to raise about ..-!" Canadian, shell rommisaton. was voted and the offi-ers there have been akd to
fart, which is nirlr double what manv'dowa in the House of torn moot last intercept them. Deputy Sheriff Howe
persons believed be could rue by tois.aignt.
1M fOTrmiwsi map'niy waa
resented Boutwell. Milne 4 Varnum.
Harry C. Sliurtleff of Montpelier ap
peared for the railj-oad.
The board convened at 3 o'clock and
when no ona had appeared to oppose tlitf
petition, adjournment was taken five
minutes afterward. In all probability
the commission will issue an order in a
few days authorizing the railroad to lay
steel for a siding to the quarry, over
which coal is to be conveyed. The fact
that the siding is to be located in a sec
tion where the public travels seldom, if
ever, probably accounts for the last of
opposition to the request.
While the commissioners were picking
up their papers preparatory to depart
ing. City Attorney William Wishart and
Aldermen Rossi and Bruce of the street
committee appeared for a conference on
the proposal to establish gates at the
South Main street crossing of the Barre
& Chelsea railroad. The officials inti
mated that similar requests might be
niRde with respect to crossings at Pros
pect and Granite streets. After hearing
the representatives of the city, the com
mission tnigested that it would be well
to reduce the request to writing and
present it to the railroad officials, re
serving the privilege to appeal to the
commission for a hearing if the request
is not granted. It is understood that
the street committee lias forwarded a
written request to the railroad.
CoL W. C. Brown's Squadron of 10th
Cavalry Is Reported to Have Come
Up with Group of Villa
Bandits Driven from
Guerrero.
San Antonio, Tex., April 6. Surprised
during their siesta, one of the groups of
ilia s forees driven from Guerrero waa
defeated Saturday by a squadron of tho
10th cavalry under Col. V. C. Brown, ao
cording to information obtained by Gen
I eral Pershing and forwarded by him to
General Funston yesterday.
In this engagement, the second the
American troops haveHiad with Villa's
men, the bandits' loss was estimated at
from 30 to 40 killed. No mention of
American loss was made.
Colonel Brown's encounter with the
Mexicans had not been reported to Gen
eral Pershing when he made his report
to General Funston, his information hav
ing been gained from friendly Mexicans
who arrived at a. point near Rubio, where
Major Evans of the loth cavalry halted j
Monday. Major Evans reported that;
Saturday Colonel Brown had encountered
a band of Villa's men and waa pursuing
them through San Antonio, Chihuahua.
Soon afterward, Mexicans who arrived
from that vicinity declared he had over
taken the wandering bandits at the vil
lage of Aguas Calientes, 20 miles south
east of Barhinava.
Villa's men, according to their version
of the encounter, appeared wholly unsus
pecting of the presence of an enemy
minute before thev were attacked.
It was about noon when Colonel Brown
brought his cavalry within easv range.
The Mexicans were lying about the place,
many of them asleep and all their horses
were grazing, in many canes some dis
tance from the men. Details of the ac
tion were not told, but the Mexicans said
that besides those killed the Americans
captured an equal number of horses.
General Pershing added that his reports
of the engagement lucked confirmation,
though his credence of the news was in
dicated bv the fact that he transmitted
it to General Funston.
The encounter aroused ijeep interest at
General Funston's headquarters, where
additional details were awaited eagerly,
but it was realized by officers that the
effect of Colonel Brown's fight and of
other minor engagements that may oc
cur is only indirect, so far as the greater
problem of catching Villa is concerned.
Kngagements of that character it was
Heated wrangling, often involving per
sonalities, between attorneys marked the
city court proceedings this forenoon
when tho case of State vs. Mrs. Eleanor
Saia of 1 Bugbee avenue, charged with
keeping liquor with intent to sell, came
to trial before a jury. Grnnd Juror Wil
liam Wishart conducted the prosecution
and the resondcnt was represented by
R. A. Hoar and A. G. Fay. At noon the
defense had completed its closing argu
ments when Magistrate H. W. Scott ad
journed the case until 1:30 o'clock. This
afternoon the prosecutor began his Bum
ming up and after that the judge gave
his charge to the jury.
Proceedings against the Saia woman
are the outgrowth of a raid conducted by
the police at her premises two weeks I
ago. .Matt. Matson, the first witness for
the defense, testilled in broken English
to calling at the Saia house daily for
swill. (Questioned by the grBnd juror,
witness denied drinking any swill given
to him by the respondent. Emil Matson,
son of the previous witness, told of wait
ing for his father while the latter went
after swill. He had smelled whiskey in
his father's breath soon after he returned
from somewhere back of the Bugbee ave
nue tenement. Charles Gravce said he
wwb employed by a local ice dealer in the
latter months of 1915, that he called one
day at Mrs. Saia's house and found the
ice chest full. Mrs. Saia told him, he
testified, that she had designated Grayce
as a "stingy iceman," when his employer
called at her house the day previous,
whereupon the emplover filled the chest
to capacity, drank a bottle of beer and
took only 10 cents for the ice. Grayce
further testified that he didn't believe
the man mentioned by Mrs. Saia in their
conversation was his emplover.
Chief Sinclair testified concerning the
raid and then Mrs. Saia took the stand
in her own defense, testifying through
the medium of an interpreter. Receipts
tor rent, electric lights, etc., were intro
dueed to show that Mrs. Saia's brother
was at the head of the house.
The jury consisted of W. H. Connor,
L. R. Rickert, W. II. Olliver. Peter D.
Thorn, George F. Howe. G. I. Reckley,
George H. Hoyt, E. M. Lyon, John Row
ley, Hugh Boyce, W. W. Parry and F. F.
Cave.
WATER MAINS
INADEQUATE
Branch Lines Do Not Pro
tect Several Stonr
Sections of thr A
TESTS DEV - JPED
. MARK. WEAKNESS
Not Pressure Enough for
One Standard-Size Stream
at Batchelder's Meadow
PHYSICIANS TESTIFIED
In Defense of Insurance Company Sued
to Recover on Policy.
The defense in the case of Jennie L.
Jones vs. Mutual Life Insurance Com
pany of New York, being tried in county
court, has, in an endeavor to establish
proof that the late Orvie M. Jones was
for many years a sufferer from indiges
tion, constipation and ulcers of the stom
ach, placed a number of physicians on
tne stand. Ur. A. B. Warren of Warren
and Dr. John B. Wheeler of Burlington
were witnesses this forenoon. The for
mer examined the condition of Mr. Jones' j driven first to the Willey street meadow,
stomach following his death and conclnd-1 then to Jones Bros.' plant and finally to
ea as tne result oi me examination that i Batchelder a meadow. Engineer C aldwell
--w-it '. uc k.t tn.uivji ui iiio ivwiiini:ii.
The disease might have originated with
in a year of the men's demise, admitted
Dr. Warren, on cross-examination.
Dr. Wheeler told of performing an
operation upon Mr. Jones a month pre
ceding his death and from observation
concluded that he was suffering from
cancer of the stomach.
It was shown yesterday that Mr.
Jones was treated for occasional attacks
and Mr. Driseoll took along their gauges
and m the presence of many onlookers
the tests were made. It cannot be said
that the tests in any instance were sat
isfactory. So it happened that the council con
vened at 7 o'clock. Naturally the gran
ite manufacturers, who were in session
a part of the evening with a committee
from the insurance exchange, brought
pressure to bear on the city fathers for
of indigestion, during which he suffered! a readjustment of affairs in the fire pro
considerable pain, and the plaintiff this tection service. Their pressure, it is to
lorenoon arew irom the witnesses the
acknowledgment that an attack of in
digestion or constipation did not neces
sarily indicate that the afflicted waa suf
fering from ulcer of the stomach or can
cer. In response to a question from
Judge Butler, Dr. Wheeler said that in
digestion and constipation were symp
toms of diseases rather than diseases in
themselves. It is evident from the line
of questioning pursued by the attorney
for the plaintiff that it is the intention
to show that Mr. Jones was stricken
with his fatal illness after he had taken
out the $5,000 policy in the insurance
company, rather than before, although
it is admitted he had been under physi
cians' care prior to that time.
Mrs. Jones was on the stand during
the latter part of yesterday afternoon
and for a short time this forenoon.
New Cases In Court.
Two new eases were entered to-day on
the docket, Vermont Real Estate Agency
vs. John It. Relley. book account. S. II.
Jackson for the plaintiff. A. A. Sargent
for the defendant; L. C. and M. Edna
Bradley vs. Eaton Heath, M. M. Wilson
for the plaintiffs.
OVER MILLION IN FUND
For Permanent Endowment of Vermont's
Public Schools.
The trustees of the Vermont perma
nent school fund met at Montpelier Yes
terday and organized by electing John I..
Snnthwick of Ittirlington as chairman
and F. A. Howland of Montpelier as secretary.
The permanent school fnd of Ver
mont can onlv be inveted in I. S. gov
ernment bonds, state bonds and bonds of
cities and achoola located in the t'nited
States having a population of 20.O1S) or
over.
The stife funds are now invested in
bonds of New York. !"ton, Philadelphia.
Fa laltimore.M. M'ntenoli, Minn..
Springfield, Ma ,!Ter City, N. J
Xew liedford. Mas W iltoineton. IVU
Burlington and of the states of Nw
1 said, may lie expected from now, from
tune to time, and the running down of
the marauding hands is essential to the
safety of the American column, but it
was indicated the only effects ao far as
Villa is concerned will be to destroy
the morale of his supporting force.
There are known to be other bands
operating in that same part of Mexico
and a part of the American forces must
remain to deal with them while the other
part pushes on in the pursuit of the fu
gitive chief.
TWO LODGES ATTENDED.
MEXICAN ATTACK
ON PARR AS BEATEN
Funeral of Ola Ingermanson and Two
Funeral Services Were Used.
The funeral of Ols Ingermanson. whose
death occurred at the home of Mrs. Os
car Borgh. 310 North Main street Mon
day morning after an illness of several
months, was held at the house Tues
day afternoon at 2 o'clock. Rev. .1. Bjork,
the retiring pastor of the Swedinh Hap
tist mission, officiating. Members of
Hiawatha lodge, I. O. O. F.. and the
Swedifli Order of Vasa were in attend
ance and the bearers were: Judge II
W. Scott. Fred Berkley, Peter Johnson
he recorded, had a good bit more forci
than was registered in the expert's gauge
on divers occasions in the afternoon.
Out of the maze of facts and theories
which came to surface at the meeting
solace may he gained from the state
ment of Engineer Caldwell to the effect
that Karre's three major pieces of fire
fighting equipment are very serviceable,
better than average, and adequate as far
as it goes. In short, the apparatus is
efficient so far as its quality goes, but
scarcely more than a third adequate
enough for a city of Barre's size, accord
ing to the inspector. Over aguin-t this
redeeming feature are recorded such
items as an inadequate fire alarm sys
tem, faulty water pressure, due to the
inadequacy of the mains, and excessive
possibilities for conflagration, as stated
by Mr. Caldwell.
Tests Described.
Reporting on the tests of the after
noon, the engineer described first the
demonstration at Willev street. There
the static pressure of S.i pounds was re
duced to 30 pounds when two streams
were in use. Observation: Size of main
and pressure sufficient for only one ade
quate stream. At Jones Hros. static
pressure of Ofl pounds, as registered by
the gauge, was reduced to 3(1 pounds
when three streams were flowing. .Ob
servation: Size of main and pressure
enough for only one standard stream
(2.V1 gallons).
At Batchelder s meadow the water test
was a complete failure. It wa a lizzie.
Before the sheds suspended operations
hose connections were made but the flow
of water did not merit a test. At 4:15
o'clock, or I. minutes after the slieos
shut down, the static pressure of S4
pounds increased to 10S pound. A read
ing of only 172 gallons was registered
and the engineer oIserved that there
was insufficient water fur one standard
stream. In every test one and one-
fourth, one and one-half and one and
and H. (Kin. The. services of the Odd Fel
lows were ued at the house and the j htU invl atreams were used
ipsa n'luiiiiiiai prmiT wit rcati n ine
graveside In Hope cemetery. There were
many floral tributes.
TOOK SECRET BALLOT.
Quincy Manufacturers Acted On Term of
Proposed Agreement.
1-ast evening's Ouincv, Mass., Patriot
Vrtrk ml Vfa ftKScii-f t
The total permanent fund now 'at St. Johnbury Center d-pot. A brook
ani.mt to l.l.Vrt. rei.rcentimr I i nimtiaa near the road made ao mil,..
; recovered in A.averos tewemrat aoioe ,1, r-t moner of 137. anon' in" folnoise t"t .Mcimn rtwt i..t bear the ap-
re-iwatchea and ether articles belonging t- j aiv.'i av; 74 Arunah Huntinrt.w fw f i proechinff train. The hre waa killed
HHItl
At the clis of an able and lucid i duwl to X. fmrr of its Mfceaera votmg'Mr. War, it ia al'efed, as wTl as tS col-1 1.1.11. 4: t ivil nr f.snl nf Jtn.rssi; land Mrlhiff was tVw eeerJ f,-et
erwech in the House of Common v ester- with t h LaurwT frrf and a am her lege sweaters, which Mr. War know nH,nv acrumu'aU-d by acts of th ttate a sxie track. Hi hak aaj hip were i:i
dar, exf!aU)U! the greatest Ui ift ia obaeating tbrmselve from t! tiiviaxm. Dvthiitg about. legislature. jure! but dacrnm!.
VfJla Band ia Reported to Have Lost
43 Men Killed, Quantity of Arms
and a Number of Horses.
Torreon, Mex., April 5. A Villa band
under Simon Keyes and Chacon lost t2
Lilled in an attempt to surprise the er
H.na in the mininir town of Tarra. ser- had tlia following
eral mile east of here, last Saturday. "A secret ballot was taken at th mcct
The garriwm under Colonel J. M. On- j f the (Jrsnile Manufacturer' as
rale drove off the bandits and captured sociation Monday exei.ing on four t
a quantity of arms and a number of ! ,iv" t-rm of .-t t l.-m. t.t of t ha pr. ..-
h,,,, ent difficulty in the granite industry in
Vuincy.
"It "ha been currently reported that
Mime of the menil-rs fa.ore,J a four
rear agTr-ement and others were standing
out for five vears. In order that the
qu-ation micM be settled and number
epre their preference in private th,
fcecret ballot was taken.
.!ust what the reTi't of the bail, t
was is not t' be made public. The bal
lot was turned over to the strike eoni
m ttee. which will ranva it arid its
a.tM-n at future conference witti the
flitters w.'.l I base! on t!.i t.
Mt i i rot-able tit a .r,feienr-e be-j
tn tSc mannf mt iirer and cutter w ill
I arTsng'-d fr at en eatlv dte."
Brief! v, Mr. Caldw
riimstanee under which
TRAIN HIT FARMER'S TEAM.
Horse Killed and Peter McDuff Was In
jured. St. Johnsbnry. April 8. Peter McDuff,
a farmer, wa injured veterdav when
hi team wa struck by a freight engine.
The. accident happened o the crossing
How Ratings Are Made.
11 reviewed the rir-
the investiga
tions in Ksrre have been made. lie stat
ed that the efficiency of fire departments,
including the alarm system, water sys
tems, street conditions, police pr'tition
snd conflagration possibilitic in New
England towns and cities had Ix'cn based
on a scale of 2 N. t lasses were divided
as follows: A, 1 to 2m: B. 13' to 17'':
', !' to 12II; 1. under l'; K. mill set
tlements, etc.; K. linprote.-te 1. tlnly
within a few months have the inve-tign-tors
U-en working in Vermont, and t!-
work in Barre and Mont-lier. Mr. t"n!.l
ell said, was undertaken .Miricr than
had been planned leeatie the c. iMtiL'e
w i.hed to pre-erit its dita to t!ie manu
facturers, who have liccn takitii; steps
nr,-cary to crginize a mutual company
t.f their own.
I'-arre, with a Tit ng rf 1"7 in the c!e
of 2:"1. coni in ! Mr. ta'dwiU
Mated, and the '.vc.es f.,r setting let
ter rat'-v. I e ventured. n"t t i-n-provcl
unt l t'e i'y i l -t--l in tee H
cUs. In cent s i :ti R.irre r M.tnt
!i, r. Mr. tal.iw. II v ! that t'w capit.'I
ha a lutt-r fire lrm siem tc 3iim it
i r.er. Here in Barre t'e wa;er up-
A woeful lack of pressure and other
alleged deficiencies in fire preparedness
developing in testa to which the city
system was put by expert engineers from
the New England Insurance Exchange
yesterday brought about a special meet
ing of the city council last night. Gath
ered around the board at the council
chamber with the city fathers were Fire
Chief C. B. Gladding, his first assistant
engineer, E. M. Tobin, Supt. F. O. Lee of
the water department and several gran
ite manufacturers. If the demonstra
tions in three stoneshed districts in the
afternoon didn't convince the powers that
bo that there is something wrong with,
the fire protection system after all, tha
remarks made by J. S. Caldwell and his
assistant, J. F. Driscoll, the Boston en
gineers, did the trick.
What wasn't revealed when perfectly
good connections with a hydrant at Bar
clay Bros.' plant in the south end were
spilling insignificant pints and quarts
where the taxpayers were looking for
gallons came out when the councillors
began to quiz the suave engineers from
the exchange. The tests, it may be men
tioned, were the outcome of the confer
ence yesterday between the granite man
ufacturers and the insurance people, in.
which the former submitted their rea
sons for demanding lower fire insurance
rates. Both the water department and
the fire department were represented at
tho conference in the forenoon and when
the insurance men asked permission to
tost the water pressure, hydrants, etc.,
the request was gladly granted.
In the afternoon the auto fire truck,
manned by regulars and cull men. was
tO-riUniH-1 n fourth g-.t
r
