DAILY EDITION
.
,...
VOL. VI., No,
GRANTS I'ABH, JOHEI'MNK COUNTY, OltKOON. , WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 1016.
WHOLE NUMBER 1713.
No Other Town io the World tlfc Size of flrants Pass Has a Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegraph Service. :;
GREED IN THE
HEARTS OF
NATIONS
Sen. Chamberlain Pleads for
Volunteer Army Planand
Says U. S. Must Prepare
to Assert Monroe Doctrine
Wellington, April 5. "There Is
igreed In the hearts ot nations. Whoi
knows when It will affct u.T Wajilt to America of the official. I.
have aet ourselves up as the protector suing It.
of South America and If you do not1
know that colonlxatton U going on
JAVfn ihAM vaii An aHtf flnrf nil
. it 7 . u. . T- . i
: 7,;: " z :
' r7v"r:r;. t.
,..1 . " JT .IT. Z 'Z Z: I,. '
. .
noon when be me to oppose the Ue
amendment to strike out of the army.
bill the entire plan for a volunteer
rmr. - '
"Germany has more than 90.000
reservist, tn this country," he de-j
clared. , "But I have no fear of warj
with her. ,1 am no alarmist, but I
nave a greater fear that the time will,
come when this country will have(
need of preparedness and will not be
prepared. .
"Is there any provision of Inter-
tiatlonal law that hat not been vlo-
lated?" j "" '7Hfroirt-letf. Junction last night, an was
- ' '' "' '' - ' , Igullty of holding up Union Pacific
NEW RTRA.MSniP LIXK I trains at Rock 8prlnga, Wyo., and
FROM BAN FRANCISCO VxtU' recently. The same des-
crlptlon bas been given tho bandit
San Francisco, April 5-Elevcn, rMcfl the
wteamers will soon be placed on run. Corlett robber hv theory that he
between 8an Francisco and far-east- returned home last night before the
rn ports, according to the .tatement rm spread. Two men saw a sad
todav of Peter D. Mllloy, president ,,,ed hor8e nwir wnere th ,bandlt
of the Oriental Alliance Steamship operated. Some officers believe ,he
oompanv, a $10,000,000 corporation. ,a tn man. who held up a party of
The new fleet will have an aggregate YeJJowstone Park tourists last July.
tonnage of
05.000. Two eteamers
may also be placed on
Francisco-New York run.
the Ban
MORE ARRESTS OF
MEXICAN PLOTTERS
' - flourishing a gun and collecting
EI Paso, April'; 5. Twenty or money,
thirty additional arrests were expect- H. O'Brien, San Francisco coffee
d today tn connection with the al- broker, surrendered a wallet con
eged plot of Mexican rebels to cap- talnlng $540. , , , . .
lure Juare. Followers of Francisco When he finished his task, the ban-
"Vllla and Felix Dia, and men who
supported Pasqual Oroxco when he
was In the field, are declared to have
oeen Involved In the conspiracy. . ,
; Consul Garcia stated that three of
the 80 suspects arrested in Juares
had oonfessod they lntondod to seise
the olty on Sunday while the garrison
vas listening, to the band concert.
Tha plotter, expected to make pris
oners, of the soldiers when they as
sembled In the plaza without
weapons. , .
' Publlo exoeutlon of several ron
isplrators,' which was scheduled for
today, was cancelled because Consul
Carcla protosted against what he one me, iour merennnt amps nave
termed tho barbarism of such a pro- been torpedoed and sunk within the
ceedlng. ' , past 24 hours. .
Knowiodgo of the plot caused the The British stoamor Bendew was
recent Carranza mobilization . near "ont to the bottom, one sailor per
the border, - which alarmed Ameri- lhing. Shipping records show the
-cans. Rlnglonders of the scheme en- lndew 8,700 tons. ;
listed " as Juarez customs house I Other ships destroyed were the
guards, so they could ho constantly ;8anlBh vessel Vigo, 1,100 tons, the
on the ground, ready to strike at an Norwegian ship Arena, 1,100 tons
opportune moment. . ftnd tho Dutch schooner Klslna Hel-
, Mayor Prleto of Juarez stated thati-""- tonnage Is not registered,
the execution of plotters probably j All the crews of the neutral vlctlniB
woiiM tnke nliino tnilev In unite of.WO saved.
Consul Gnrcla'i protect. Dissension
among Mexican officials In Juarez was
denied. They declared 'the executions
nnd merely been jiostponofl, not can-
celled, i ' ,. ' ';,'.,
INSTITUTE PLAN MIMD
rnn im iBirninm IIU 1 i
run whim
PEACE COMPACT
Ban Francisco, April 6 A big
peace moveurent which has for 1U
purpoao the welding of doner rela
tions between Japan and America,
haa been lnmltutod by prominent
Japanese officials, according to a pub
lication called the "Peace Movement,"
a copy of. whkh arrived here today
on the ateamer Panama Mara.
It ! Issued by Viscount Kantara
Kaneko, of tbe Japanese privy coun
cil and Dr. Sanaro Taxote, of the
Japanese national board of education
IU appearance caused much comment
tn the orient, a ateamer officer de
clared.
mi... . ... 1 1 -.. i i .. 1 1 m - , u
Kaneko speak. In hit article of the
idealistic conditions rouna in America
'of the mingling of the lowly and
wealthy, of the opportunity, afforded
to the of the reiigto... b-
(democracy. It then approves the
T"M ' relation, between
.the countries, and hopes for the
day Japan can tout or
.
U, P, OVERLAND
T
Cheyenne, Wyo., April 5 A young
bualness man waa suspected today of
being the bandit who robbed pas-
senger on a Union Pacific train at
Cheyenne, Wyo., April 5. Sher
iffs' posses scoured the country
around Corlctt Junction today hunt
InK the lone bandit who last night
took l,O00 from, passengers on
Union Paclflo Overland Limited, num
ber 4. The robber appeared bn the
train when It neared the junction,
five miles west of here. He went
systematically through the Pullmans,
dlt Jumped from a rear coach and
vanished. Three posbs closed In on.
the scene shortly afterward, two In
autds and tne On a speeding switch
engine, but they found no trace of
their quarry.
THREE MERCHANT
London April 8 -SVlth a loss of
John, Broker, of Redfield, S. D
arrived In Grants Pass this morning,
and ; left Immediately for Crescent
Cjf'on his way to Brookings,
RAM
HOOPERIZED
SHIPS
SUNK
0ED0CIIE1I!
BE VIOLATED BY KAISER
Imperial Chancellor yon Bethmann Hollweg Outlines the
Policy of Germany in Notable Speech Before Reich
stag, and Asserts That Submarine Warfare Will Be
Continued Against the Allies With Unabated Vigor
Berlin, April S. Announcing that
Germany bad no Intention of making
war against the United States after
tho present conflict ends, Imperial
Chancellor von Betbmaon-Hollweg
addressed the relchstag today. .
He asserted that the kaiser did not
contemplate any violation of the Mon
roe doctrine and would make no at
tempt to seize territory on either of
the American continents. .!'.
Germany, declared the Imperial
chancellor, will rigorously continue
Its submarine activities. In this way
It will fight the British attempt to
starve the central powers. Legitimate
representatives and shinning of neu
tral vessels affected by the undersea
warfare will always be given con
slderatlon, he said.
After having reviewed Germany's
victories, Hollweg said his' country
would never willingly consent to re
turn Poland or other conquered Rus
sian provinces to the czar. He con
templated the' formation after the
war of a new Belgium, la which the
representatives of Flemish speaking
people who sprang from German
stock would receive fullest consider
ation,.,, v,,. , ; ;.
It was folly,' he asserted, for the
allies to talk about starving Germany
and Austria Into submission. In this
connection he called attention to the
coming crops, which, be said,, were
most promising. .
Berlin, April 5. In the most com
prehensive speech of the war, deliv
ered before a crowded relchstag, Im-
perial Chancellor von Bethmann
Hollweg today reviewed military and
political situations, the means of con
ducting further warfare, and Ger
man relations with tbe United States.
He explained the kaiser's attitude
toward different European nation
alities Belgian, Polish, Lithuanian
and Flemish.
It was' doubly necessary, he de
clared, to EiinrantnA Knrnnn'a nanca
after the war, so that these peoples
would have a chance for free evolu
tion, .speaking their own mother
tongue and developing their natural
Individuality.
"A spirit of union shall lead us,
he said, as his speech was concluded ; He P,nt out that on Sept. 9
amid great cheering, "and it shall e had declared his readiness to en
lead' our children and grandchildren ter Peac discussions, (but said the
through their struggles towards a nemy decllned to do so. ;
future of Btrength and liberty.'1 I "Let us suppose," said Hollweg,
"Since I last addressed you," said "that I suggested to Asqulth that he
the Imperial chancellor, "our one- sit down with me at table and ex
mles' enterprise at . the Dardanelles amine the possibilities of peace. As
haa failed. With our Bulgarian and quith begins with a claim for definite,
Austrian allies we have brought the complete discussion of Prussian's mil
Serbian campaign to a victorious end. Uary power. Tou see, the conversa
. "Montenegro and Albania are like-tion would be ended before It be
wlse In our hands. -The British have gan.', ' v ;
vainly endeavored to relieve their be-' r ' v '
aiejuu luivi.o at ivui-ei-Auiarn. imib-
slans occupied Erzorum with supe
rior forces, but strong armies of our
Turkish allies checked further ad
vances, ,,' . i, M.;
-"Russian attacks against Aus
trlnns In eastern Oallcla, and Italian
attacks all along the Isonzo frontier. - ' . ':
have boon beaten Iback'. The Russian J San Francisco, April 5. That the
columns broke down before' Field Japanese re proparlng to make a
Marshal , von Ulndenburg ;and' his tremondous bid for world trade was
heroes., The enemies' reports that believed in shipping circles here to
Cermany's military power is exhauBt-day when IC. Hlramutsu and other
ed are erroneous, as our victories and officials of the Osaka Shoshen Kalsha
gains around Verdun prove. Opera- line arrived to purchase lumber for
tlons there have been managed with, their new fleet of merchant vessels,
profound foresight and' tho bravery They came to America for lumber, It
of the Germans continues to gain ad- was stated, becauso shipbuilding ac
vantages for us." ' 'tlvlties in Japan had made the pur-
"The last offspring of the campaign
of calumnies against us Is the report
that after the end of this war we will
rush against the American continent
and attempt to conquer Canada as
r 1
our first province," continued , the
chancellor. "This Is the silliest of all
the Imputations invented against us.
There are equally silly reports that
we nave contemplated acquisition of
any territory on American soil,
either in Brazil or in any American
country whatsoever.
"We fight for our existence, for
our future, for Germany, but for no
foot of foreign soli In either Brazil
or any American country whatsoever.
"Germany's sons are bleeding and
dying on the battlefield. Every one
of us knows this. Tba makes our
hearts strong, our nerves strong. Its
morale strengthens our will, not only
in order to weather the final storm
but also for the final victory."
"The allies' response to my offer to
discuss terms of peace was a demand
that Germany's military power - be
crushed. To these peace conditions
only one answer Is left this must "be
given by our sword.
, ''If our adversaries want to con
tinue slaughtering human beings and
want to continue devastating Europe,
let theirs be the guilt. We will have
to fooa It out like men."
Hollweg admitted that conditions
of life In Germany under the strain
of war were not easy at present, but
declared all classes were bearing up
admirably, particularly the poor. In
executing Ha starvation program, be
charged England was violating the
law of nations and the precepts of
humanity.
"In the note to .America, Nov. 5,
1915, I gave an exact description of
English violations of international
law, but so far as I know It baa not
been answered ,' said the chancellor.
"Our recognized right and duty is
to use all means against this policy
of starvation, which is a leering in
sult not only to us, but to all nations.
It Is the plainest duty of humanity
that we fight this policy.
"No serene minded neutral, no
matter whether H favors us or not,
can doubt our right to defend our-
8e!ev" aln8tw war of tarvatl0n
which Is contrary to International
law. Nobody, can ask us. to allow
the arms of defense to be wrested
from our hands. We use them, and
must use them,"
t
chase of materials there practically
Impossible. . It was reported that Bev-
eral of the new Osaka vessels might
be put on the voyage between San
Francisco and Japanese ports.
JAPANESE
BUY
AMERICAN
LUMBER
Fill TIE
London, April 5. SmaBhing from
land, sea and air with unparalleled
flerccfless, German forces today are
evidently endeavoring to offset the
Impression which the allied war
council in Paris may have created In
neutral and Teuton minds.
Four Zeppelin raids against the
British Isles within as many days.
torpedolngs averaging four daily, and
the terrific hammering at Verdun are
evidences of this supreme effort.
The land, sea and air attacks open
ed simultaneously with the closing
of an allied ring of steel around the
central powers.
Berlin newspapers emphasize the
fact that the new Zeppelin raids mean
tbe beginning of a more active war
fare against England, which was de
manded by the main relchstag com
mittee. . . '. , .....
Count Reventlow recently urged
that Zeppelinj attacks make every
night one of terror for Londoners.
Successive wavea of men nave been
hurled against Verdun's defenses on
both sides of the Me use river. At the
first Indication of a German weaken
ing the allies' grand assault may be
gin. Yesterday, south of Douaumont,
the Germans were not only repulsed
but they were driven back to their
second lines. The Teuton charges
were smothered with sheets of ma
chine gun fire and shrapnel slaugh
tered those who tried to retreat
The next heavy blow is expected
to be launched against Bethlncourt
and positions northwest of Verdun.
DIG TREISCHES FOR
Hi
Columbus, N. M., April 5.
Trenches . have been dug at some
points where it may be necessary to
fight for the protection of the Amer
lean lines of communication In Mex
ico, according to army motor truck
drivers who arrived here today. They
declared the presence of small bandit
bands, lurking In the foothills along
the communications routes, convinced
officers that precautionary measures
were necessary.
"There is no doubt that our men
are entrenched along the line," said
one officer. . It was learned they were
actually digging, earthworks at Boca
Grande, 32 miles south of the bor
der. Some believe the movement of
Carranza troops northward may have
been responsible for the precautions.
"We are interested in reports that
Carranzistas are mobilizing," said an
officer, J'but .we can not say what we
have determined." , j
GERMAN' SQUADROX MAKES ,(
DASH INTO NORTH SEA
Copenhagen,) -. April . 5. Dashing
from the Baltic,, a German squadron
steamed into the North , sea and
fought a minor skirmish with British
torpedo boats off the coast of Nor
way, reports from two sources de
clared today 1 ' ' !'. 5- '
A message from Kullen, Sweden,
said that .'following a heavy cannon
ade a damaged German destroyer was
towed past Helslngborg. i ; ..
CHANGES IX ITALIAN ,
WAR MINISTRY
. Rome, April 5 General ZupelH,
minister of war, and General, Ella,
under-secrotary of war, have resign
ed, it was announced today. Their
successors will be respectively Gen
erals Morons and Alflerl. . -
COMMITTEE FAVORS
; t
ARMOR PliATE RILL
Washington, April 5.-The $11.-
to00,000 government armor tplant bill
was reported favorably today by the
house naval affairs committee (by a
vote of 15 to 6. , It was passed by the
senate a week ago. ;
COB
0
MEXICO
Ifj HUNT IS
CONTINUED
IIEIO
Americans Are Clearing tie
Country Aronnd Guerrero cf
Villistas, and Rcsnlsg Figbts
Are of Daily Occurrence
Columbus, K. M., April 5. In
series of desperate, headlong forced
marches, American- cavalrymen are
clearing Villistas from the district
between Namiquipa and Guerrero to
day. Their operations are even driv
ing bandits from regions south of
that area,; 4
This was the belief expressed to
day by Major Sample here. He also
declared that' General ; Pershing's
men had probably .figured in skir
mishing and running fights almost
daily . Pershing himself has gone
into the thick of the pursuit He was
at Guerrero yesterday. " ' , '
Sample believes the advance guards
are not sparing man or beast in their
chase after Francisco Villa and his
scattered bands. . V
A strong cavalry guard,! with a
mile long wagon train, entered Mex
ico south of here today. They ex
pected to reinforce the man hunters.
' Returning wagon drivers reported
that .farmers along the line were pre
paring earth for the first crops to be
planted ' since:;; ;MexIcan ; factional
armies began ravishing the country.
San Antonio; April 5. Admitting
that FranclBco Villa had escaped to
the south, General Fuaston declared
today the bandit leader was prob
ably headed toward farraL Only a
few American companies are avail
able for the pursuit In that direction.
Funston explained it would be Impos
sible to send a considerable force far
ther south because of the necessity
ot protecting communication lines.
The present units which can be used
for that purpose are insufficient.
Army, headquarters exhibited pro
nounced pessimism today. Funston
admitted that continuance of the
chase southward would necessitate
stronger forces than are available
now. , Villa's escape from the Guer
rero district is believed to have been
due to false information which his
sympathizers gave American pur
suers.
Knowledge of Colonel Brown's
victory over Villistas at a point 30
miles north of Guerrero, April 1,' was
confined today to Brigadier-General
Pershing's reports from Mexican
ranchers near the scene. They said
the Villistas lost 30 dead when the
200 cavalrymen led by. Colonel
Brown made a surprise attack on
them. No Americans were killed.
Qolonel Brown himself had not re
ported, however."
MOTOR TRUCKS ARE
Washington, April 5. In order to
cope with a serious shortage ot trans
portation facilities, Secretary ot War
Baker. today ordered 108 additional
motor trucks and two tank trucks
for gasoline. - The order was made
at Major General Funston's request.
This aotion was believed to be the
administration's probable solution of
the entire transportation' difficulty
resulting from the fact that the Mex
ican Northwestern railway Is not
available for immediate use. ' ;
Baker refused the Aero Club ot
America's offer to sell two aeroplanes
to the army at one dollar each. The
new aeroplane appropriation elimin
ated the necessity of accepting the
proposition. ' '
ORDERED
ARM
