FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
-
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
?1
R 1 1
I 9 l I
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR
Germans Kicking
from land, ea and air
Wave After Wave of Men Dashed Against Verdun's Defenses
- On Both Sides of the Meusc London Claims They Were
1 Repulsed and Driven Back to Their Second Lines Four
Zeppelin Raids In Four Day and Torpedoings Averaging
Four a Day Allies Expect to Make Grand Assault Soon
f ,
:
I " By Wilbur S. Forrest,
(United Press Staff Correspondent)
London, April 5. Smashing from land, sea and air
with unparalleled fierceness, German forces today are
evidently endeavoring to offset the impression which the
allied war council in Paris may have created in neutral
and Teuton minds.
Four Zeppelin raids against the British isles within as
many days torpedoings averaging four daily and the
terrific hammering at Verdun are evidences of this su
preme effort. The land, sea and air attacks opened simul
taneously with the closing of an allied ring of steel around
the central powers.
Berlin newspapers emphasize the fact that the new
Zeppelin raids mean the beginning of a more active war
fare against England, which was demanded by the main
reichstag committee. Count Reventlow recently urged
that Zeppelin attacks make every night one of terror for
Londoners.
Successive waves of men have been hurled against
Verdun's defenses on both sides of the Meuse. At the
first indication of a German weakening the allies' grand
assault may begin. Yesterday, south of Douaumont, the
Germans were not only repulsed, but they were driven
back to their second lines. The Teuton charges were
smothered with sheets of machine gun fire and shrapnel
slaughtered those who tried to retreat. "
The next heavy blow is expected to be launched against
Bethincourt andf positions northwest of Verdun.
London, April 5. With a loss of one
life, three merchantmen have been tor
pedoed ami sunk within the past 24
hours. The British steamer Eoudew wn
sent to the bottom, one jailor perishing.
Shipping records show the Ilendew was
of .1.700 tons.
Other ships destroyed were the S
ish vessel Vigo, 1,100 tons, the Nor
wegian bont Arena, 1,100 tons, ami tin
Dutch schooner F.lzinn rtelena. Its ton
nage is not registered. All the crews
of the neutral victims were saved.
German Squadron Makeg Dash.
Copenhagen. April 5. Dashing from
the Baltic, a German squadron steamed
into the North sea and fought a minor
skirmish with British torpedo boats off
the coast of Norway, reports from twr
sources declared today.
A message from Kullen, Sweden, sail'
flinty, following a heavy cannonade !
dnmnged German destroyer was tower
past Helsingborg.
Fifteen Sky uattles.
Paris. April ,1. French troops have
made further gains in trench fighting
couth of Douaumont, in the Oailette
woods, official announcements stated
today. A squadron of French aeroplanes
heavily shelled railway stations at
Mnntillos and Damvillers. r
The air raiders dumped 11 shells nt
Nntillois and five at Danvillers. it was
claimed-,. Fifteen sky battles were
fought around Verdun, two German
neroplnncs being ric.v.oyed.
With the exception of French gains
nt Douaumont and an intense bombard
ment in the Mnuluinvillo-('hntilon sec-
i
l ABE MARTIN J!
:
. 'Miss Tnwnoy Apple, ticket seller o'
th' "Lily Dell," is layin' off fd.iv on j
account of a broken bracelet. Tulk
about hungry Democrats, th' Flepibli-j
nus even et th ' smilax nt a git t 'get her
btnuiuvt at Melodeou Hall, lu--t nie'ht. '
tor, no important activity was noted
around Verdun.
In Lorraine, the Germans hurled sev
eral attacks against the Arracourt-St.
Martin sector after a severe bombard
ment. All assaults were beaten off.
Friendly to America.
Berlin, April 5. Imperial Chancellor
Von Bethmann-Hollweg in his reichstag
speech today vigorously protested
against reports that Germany contem
plates present or future aggressive ac
tion against the United Mates. '
Italian Secretary Quits.
Rome, April 5. General Zupelli, min
ister of war. and General Klin, under
secretary of war, have resigned, it was
announced today. Their successors will
be respectively Generals Mnrone and
Alfieri.
Four Americans on Board.
Washington, April 5. Confirmation
of the report that four Americans were
on the British steamer Berwind. sn
bv a submarine, wns received today by
the state department from the Amer
ican consul nt Cork.
Trapped In Barn Which Is Set
On Fire, He Is Riddled
WithJSullets
Sl. Charles, Mo., April Trapped
in a burning barn by a mob of .",00 men
ami boys. Ln Fayette Chandler, aged L':').
negro, was shot to death lit noun today.
Last night he shot and probablv fatally
wnundej Sheriff John Dicker."
While posses were" scouring the
country for ( handler, a fanners gun
chanced to enter the barn where he had
taken refuge. The negro emerged from
his hilling pluce and threatened the lad
with a revolver. Running into the
house, the boy quickly alarmed the dis
trict by telephone.
Men came running to the spot from
all directions, waving rifles and pis
tols. Soon a crowd of 5' '0 was as
sembled. They surorunded the barn
and yelled for Chandler to come out.
Suddenly smoke culled from under the
roof and the building began burning
briskly. Members of the mob claimed
( handler set it afire.
When the barn was in flames Chan
dler nppenred in a doorway waving both
hands above his head in token of sur
render. A thousand shots rang out.
The negro toppled backward into the
blaze. His body has tint been re
covered. Frank S. Ward, who was elected sec
retary of the Oregon Board of Pharm
acy ;it January, will take charge of
the office next Monday. An secretary
SALEM,
TO BUILD SCHOONERS
Astoria. Ore., April 5. Con
tracts for the construction of
two of f shore auxiliary schoon
ers for the Charles K. McOor
mick Lumber company have
been let to Wilson Brothers, of
Astoria, it was announced to
day. The keels will be laid at once
in the shipyards at Smith 'a
Point, l'art of me work, how
ever, will be done by the St.
Helens shipyard's, which now
ore crowded to capacity.
The schooners will have a ca
pacity of 1,500,000 feet of lum
ber each. They will probably
go into commission within seven
months.
Viscount Kaneko Wants Japan
to Have As Ideal Condi
tion of Affairs
San Fr.mcisco, April 5. A big pease
movement which has tor its purpose the
welding of closer relations between
Japan and America, has been institut
ed by prominent Japanese officials a
cording to i publication called trio
"Peace Movement", a copy of which
arrived here today on the steamer Pan
ama Maru.
Is issued by Viscount Kantnra Kane
ko, of the Japanese privy council and
ur, Hanaro laxote, ot the Japanese ua
tional board of education. Its appear
ance caused much comment in the
Orient, steamer officers declared.
I he publication followed n lengtny
visit to America of the officials issu
ing it.
Viscount Kaneko speaks in his article
ot the idouistic conntions found in
America, of the mingling of the iowlv
and wealthy, of the opportunities of
fered the Japanese, of the religious lib
erties and highly lauds American de
mocracy. Jt then approves the most
peaceful of relations between the two
countries-, and hopes for the day when
lapan can bom of as ideal a condition
ot atfairs.
Planned To Seize City Lead
ers Caught Are Billed for
Shooting Today
El Paso, Texas, April 5. Twenty fir
thirty additional arrests were expected
today in connection with the alleged
plot of Mexican rebels to capture Ju
arez. Followers of Francisco Villa and
Felix Diaz, and men who supported
Pascuat Orozco when he wns in the
field, are declared to have been involv
ed in the conspiracy.
Consul Garcia stated that three of
the SO suspects arrested in Juarez ha
confessed they intended to seize the
city on Sunday while the garrison was
listening to the band conceit. The pint
ters expected to make prisoners n
soldiers, when they were assembled i'
the plaza without weapons. Public ex
edition of several conspirators, whi. '
was scheduled for today, was (-nacelle
because Consul Garcia protested again
what he termed the barbarism of sue!
a proceeding.
Mayor Prieto of Juarez, stated that
the execution of plotters would probab
lv take place today in spite of Consul
Garcia's protest. Dissenliim among
Mexican officials in Juarez was denied.
They declared the executions had mere
ly been postponed, not cancelled.
Knowledge of the plot caused the re
cent Carranza mobilization near Or
border, which alarmed Americans. Ring
leaders of the scheme enlisted as .Tunro
custom house guards so they could I,
constantly on the ground ready ti
strike nt an opportune moment.
CHARLES H. PICKETT IS
GRANTED A DIVORCE
TarnniH, Wash., April T.
"The only sign of insanity 1 am
cognizant of ever showing was
in sticking so long by a woman
who didn't love me," Charles
H. Pickett, aged 41, a salesman,
replied to Judge Ensterday to
day in presenting" his suit for
divorce from Eva Pickett of
Salem, Oregon.
Pickett testified he went to
his home in Salem Christtnns
eve, and was arrested on his
wije 'b complaint that be wns
insane.
Pickett was granted a di
vorce. of the hoard, nil correspondence and
business will come through Mr. Ward
here in Snlern. The retiring secretary
is Leon B. Haskirrs, of MedforJ.
OREGON, WEDNESDAY
m.wm
HAS NO DESIGNS
fi ANY WITHY
Chancellor Von Bethmann-Hollweg-Gives
Outline of
Germany's Desires
NO IDEA OF VIOLATING
THE MONROE DOCTRINE
Legitimate Rights of Neutral
Vessels Will Be Given
Full Consideration
Berlin. April 5. Announcing that
Germany had no intention of making
war against the I'nited States after the
present conflict ends. Imperial Chan
cellor Von Bethmann-Hollweg addressed
the reichstag today.
He asserted that the kaiser did not
contemplate any viorarlon of the Mon
roe doctrine and would make uo at
tempt to seize territory on either of th
American continents.
Germany, declared the imperial chan
cellor, will vigorously continue its sub
marine activities. In this way it wi
fight the British attempt to starve the
central powers. I.eutinate rights of
neutral vessels affected by the under
sea boat war would always be given
consideration, he said.
After having reviewed Germany's
victories, Hollweg said his country
would never w illingly consent to return
Poland or other conquered Russian pro
vinces to the czar. Ho contemplate
the 'formation after the war of a new
Belgium, in which the rights of Flemis
speaking people who sprang from tier
man stock would receive fullest con
sideration.
It was folly, h( asserted, fT the a"
lies to talk about starving Germany nn
Austriu into submission. In this en
nection he called attention to the con
ing crops which, he said, were mos
promising.
Right of Self Defence
Hollweg admitted that conditions of
life in' Germany under the strain of,
wur were not easy t present, but de
clared all classes were beariug up ad
mirably, particularly the poor. Ju ex
ecutiug its starvation program, he
charged Great Britain was making war
upon women and children and violatin
the trade rights of neutrals.
The note to America, dated November
5, l!il!5, gnve an exact description of
F.nglish iolations of international law,
out so i ir as i Know it has not been
answered srid the chancellor
"Our rec.ig lizod right ami duty is
use all mcanx a. 'must this poii-iv r f -.n ,!.
vation whi-h is ;( leerinc insult in.
only to us but to nil nations. It is the
plainest duty of humanity that we fig
this policy.
"No serene minded neutral, no mat
ter whether it favors us or not. .an
I'ouht our right to defend nuiyolves
against this war of starvation which i
contrary to international law. Nobody
env ask us lo allow the nrm.; of-defense
to be wrested rre'i; :.' hands. U'e us'
tin m, ami must use them."
He pointed nut Milt on S -yeni'ii r "
l ad dedn.-ot his readiness ' e:,t.T
pircc discussi.MS, but m the intmv
de?! ned to do o.
"Let us Kiip,i':se," sard Ilollwng,
' t'.at I suggest to As-piith that he i
drwn with m; (f t. table, ami ( xaini: c
th' possibilities of pence. Aspnth i.e.
g'ts with a clai'.i for dcfi.-.ite, complete
destruction of Prus 'g milil-iiy pow r.
Wi,. see, the enversntin: would hi
er iled before it I egnu."
Situation Reviewed
Berlin. April ". In the most compre
hensive speech of the wur, delivered
before n crowded reichstag, Imperial
Chancellor Von Brthman-llollwcg to
day reviewed military and political sit
uations, the means of conducting fur
ther warfare, and iGcrmnti relations
with the 1'iiitcd States.
He expl lined the kaiser's attitude to
ward different Kuropenu nationalities,
Belgian, Lithuanian, Polish uud Flem
ish. It was doubly necessary, he de
clared, to guarantee Kniope's peace
alter the war, so that these peoples
would hive a chance for free evudution,
spenning their own mother tongue and
de eo'ing their individuality.
"A spirit of union shall lead us, ''
he said, as his speech was concluded
amid great cheering, "and it shall
lead our children and -Hinl children
through their struggles towards a fu
ture of strength an. I liberty."
"Since I list addressed you," saM
th imperial chancellor, "our enemies'
enterprise at the Dardanelles has fail
ed. With our Bulgarian and Austrian
allies we have brought Hie Serbian
campaign to n victorious end. Monte
negro and Albinia are likewise in the
hands of our allies. The British have
vainly endeavored to relieve their bc
seige.l forces at Kiit-el-Amaru. Mas
sin ns occupied Krzerum with superior
lories, out strong armies of our Turk
ish allies checked further advances.
No Designs on America.
"Russian attacks agiinst Austrian
in eastern ('ulucia, and Italian at
tacks nil along the Isono front have
been beaten back. The Ku-si in col
umns hroliB down before Field Marshal
.APRIL 5, 1916
BARBERS "USED"
BAY RTJM
Portland, Ore., April 5. Bay
rum and patent hair tonics may
be taboo in Portland after a
hearing in municipal court tins
afternoon.
Two barbers were found List
night lying on the floor ot th-ir
slop. Linpty bottles were scat
ters! around them. The shop's
i.itire stock of bay ruin, .ml
clher tonics which I intuit. "d -i
1 rgo percentage of ulcoh il.
h.i-l been consumed.
The police are washing for
other evidences of the popular
ity of barber shop tip,-'. 's.
Mortally Wounded, He 'Tried
. to Comfort His Daughter
as She Wept Over Him
Louisville, Ky., April 5. Satisfied
that she had done right in killing hci
aged father to put him out of his mis
ery, Miss Anna Stitzell talked calmly t
physicians today, exhibiting no signs of
insanity, although they believed she l
mentally deranged.
Her father, William Stitzell. a Pi
war veteran, suffered constantly from
rheumatism which attacked wounds re
ceived at the battle of Lookout Moun
tain.
As he But in his nrm chair in a 1
room behind his little shop, the daugh
ter calmly took a revolver 'from a bu
reau drawer and shot him. Then she
rushed out, crying:
"My God, I have shot pop. His suf
ferings are over. I hud no money tr,
take enre of him. Mr bullet will prove
a blessing."
Stitzell, however, was not dead. Me'
tally wounded, he was taken to a hos
pital when the girl wept at his bcdsiil
while his strength ebbed. With his dv
ling breath he comfoneci her, saying:
"There, now, don't cry little' girl. 1
know you did what you thought best.''
Physicians said, the woman wns un
doubtedly insane. She was recently op
erated on for tumor of the breast, and
has been melancholy ever since.
Intense Excitement Caused by
Submarine Sinking Hol
land Vessel
The Hague, April Torpedoing o!
the Dutch schooner Llzinu Helena while
Holland was in Ihe grip of a wnr scare
caused intense excitement here today
The message to the ship's owners suii
there wns no doubt that a submarine
wns responsible for her destruction.
When the crew landed nt Rotterdam u
govern me nt inquiry opened immediate
ly. Simultaneously the queen ordered
investigation oi the liner Tubuntiu dis
aster. Previous inquiries concerning th
Tubuntiu all canie from the vessel's
owners.
The general committee of the lowc
chamber was expected to issue a state
ment shortly, explaining the reason foi
recent military activities and at least
assuring the pulilic tiiat there is no dan
ger of immediate war. Only officials
know what caused the sudden cancella
tion of furloughs and other warlike
moves. Lditoiinl speculation on the
events varys nccnnling to the sympath
ies of ttic ditterciit newspapers.
Von llimleiiburg and his heroes. The
enemy's reports that Germany's mili
tary power is exhausted are erroneous,
as our victories at Verdun prove. Op
erations there were prepared with pro
found foresight and the lirnverv ot the
Germans continues to gain Advantages
lor us.
'The lust offspring of the campaign
of calumnies against us is tiin report.
!h;it nfter the end ol this war, we will
rush against the American continent
ami ntlempt to conquer Caiiudi as our
tirrt province," said llollweg.
"This is the silliest of all the impu
tations invented against us. There are
equally silly reports that we have con
templated acquisition of any territory
on American soil, either in lirnzil or
in inv American country whatsoever.
"We fight tor our existence, for our
future, for Germany, but for no foot
of foreign soil in either Hra.il or any
American eountgy whatsoever, tier-
main 's sons are bleeding and dying on
the buttlefield. Kverv one of us knows
this. That makes our hearts strong,
our nerves strong. Its moral strength
ens our will, not only in order to
weather the final storm but also for
the final viclorv."
"The allies' response to, my offer to
discuss terms of pence wus a demand
that tiermaay s military power be
crushed. To these pence conditions
only ono answer is left this mc.nt
be given by our sword. If our adver
saries want to continue slniiglitering
human beings and want to enntiniie de
vastating. Kurope, let theirs be the'guil'
W'e will have to face it out like nun.''
PRICE TWO
AIRIGIS CLEARING
COUNTRY OF VILLISTAS
Cavalry Making Forced Marches and Appearing Unexpect
edly, Terrorizes Bandits Who Are Fleeing South Aban
doning Their Favorite Strongholds Funston Admits
Villa Is Safe, and That Campaign Cannot Be Extended
Much Further-108 More Motor Trucks Provided
Columbus, N; M., April 5. In a beiies of desperate,
headlong forced marches American cavalrymen are clear
ing Villistas from the district between Namiquipa and
Guerrero today. Their operations are even driving
bandits from regions south of that area.
This was the belief expressed today by Major Sample
here. He also declared that Brigadier General John J.
Pershing's men had probably figured in skirmishing and
running fights almost daily. Pershing himself has gone
into the thick of the pursuit. He was at Guerrero yes
terday. Sample believes the advance guards are not
sparing man or beast in their chase, after Francisco Villa
and his scattered bands.
A strong cavalry guard with a mile long wagon train
entered Mexico south of here today. They expected to
reinforce the manhunters.
Returning wagon drivers reported that farmers along
the line were preparing earth for the crops to be planted.
Trenches have been dug at some points where it may
be necessary to fight for protection of the American lines.
of communication in Mexico, according to army motor
truck drivers who arrived here today.
They declared the presence of small bandit bands,
lurking in the foothills along the communication routes,
convinced officers that precautionary measures were
necessary.
. "There is no doubt that our men are entrenching along
the line," said one officer. It was learned they were actu
ally digging earthworks at Boca Grande, 32 miles south
of the border. Some believe the movement of Carranza
troops northward may perhaps be responsible for the
precautions.
"We are interested in reports of Carranzistas mobil
izing," said an officer, "but we cannot say what we have
determined."
Story of Fight Unconfirmed
San Antonio, Texas, April Ad
mitting that Francisco Villa had cs
eaped to the south, Major General
Fred Funston declared toduy the band
it leader wis probably headed toward
1'arrul. Only a tew American compan
ies are available for the pursuit in that
direction. Funston explained it would
be impossible' to send a considerable
ton!; farther south liecuuse ot too
necessity of protecting communica
tions. The president units which cin
be used for that purpose are insuffi
cient.
Army headquarters exhibited pro
uouueed pessimism toduv. Fuustou ad
mitted that continuance of the chase
southward would necessitate stronger
forces than are available now. Villa's
esc ipe from Guerrero district is be
lieved to have been due to false infor
mation waich bis sympathizers gave
American pursuers.
Knowledge of Colonel Drown 's vie
torv over Villistas at a point 'M miles
nodth of Guerrero, April I, was con
fined today to lirigadier General .1. J.
Pershing's report from Mexican ranch
ers near the scene. They said the Vil-
list is lost HO dead when the 'M0 envoi
rvnien, led bv Colonel Prown, made a
surprise attack on them. No Ameri
cans were killed. Colonel llrown him
self had not reported, however.
Inirists Villa is Wounded
HI Paso, Texas.' April fi. General
Gutierrez has wired Consul Garcia a
report that Francisco Villa is positively
known to be wounded, ile (used his
message on stories told by persons who
claimed to hae hoen the outlaw after
he was shot, in the leg. These eye
witnesses included u Cnrruiiza soldier,
captured by Villistas and later releas
ed, lie said Villi was unable to rido
a horse.
Information received at Juarez this
morning located Villa and a few follow
ers somewhere between Cuniargo and
I'tirrnl. When last seen they wero
southeast of t nrni ign. If this report
is true, Villa must be within five
miles of Santa Kosalin on tho Mexi
can National .railroad. I
When informed thnt large forces of
Carranzistis hnd apparently allowed
ilia to escape, .luiircz otticials insist
ed' that General Luis llerrera was hot
ly pursuing him.
Motor TrucliB for Tunston
Washington, April fi. In older to
cope with a serious shortage of trans
portation facilities Secretary of Wir
motor trucks and two tank trucks for
gasoline. The order was made at Ma
jor General Funston 's request.
This action wus believed to be the
idmiiiistrutiou 's probable solution ol
the entire transportation difficulty re
sulting from the fact that the Metiefl
Northwestern railway is not uvailublo
for immediate esc. Notwithstanding
ro-mril 1 1 tta tit llio t-fiilrttnl tha wnr
department suggested taut its poor con
'dition might necessitate- reliance, ot
motor trucks anyhow.
CENTS
ON' TRAINS AND NEW
STANDS FIVK CENTS
Ilakers refused the Aero Club of
America's offer to sell two aeroplanes
to the army at one dollar each. Th
new appropriation for iviation elimi
nated the necessity of uecopting thti
proposition.
May Patrol Border
San Diego, Cal., April."). Major Gen
eral X Franklin Hell, commander of thw
wostern department of the linitn'l
States army and Mayor C.ipps of Hun
Diego conferred here today regarding
tim possibility of n cuvnlry putrol along
tho Mexicau line in this county. May
or Lapps recently telegraphed Secre
tary of Wnr il iker asking such a pa
trol. Major Generul Hell would not
indicate what action would be taken
excopt to sny that conditions seomed tu
be quiet along the border here now.
He has to leave for Imperial toilny.
"There is no cavalry ivailable for a.
patrol in this county," Hell sai.1 be
fore leaving. He indicated that border
residents will have to get along with
out guards for the present at least.
Prices Well Maintained
But Trading Was Dull
New York, April 0. The New York
Kvening Man's financial review today
aid:
Tho general market despite its irreg
ularity maintained n strong undertone.
At tho opening Industrial Alcohol, Han.
win Locomotive, Cruciblo Steol ami
somo other spcialties made an excellent
recovery from yesterday 'a rcautiou. 'I
generally better character of Mexican-,
advices resulted in n substantial im
provement in issues like American
Smelting and Ketiuing, Southern Pa
cific, and Mexican Petroleum.
Apparently there wus no enlargement
of public buying. Prices woro well
maintained in the afternoon tut trac
ing was dull. The railways fulled to
sustain an activity developed iu th
Into afternoon, but a spurt in stand
ards was an encouraging feature. Mer
cantile marine common and preferred
after having an irergular day wer
stronger iu the last hour. Kuhber and
tiro stocks were generally higher.
THE WEATHER
Oregon: F&ir
touight and
Thursday, heavy
frost tonight
east portion;
winds movtly
southerly,
CAN PiiCoiF
w
