i ...
THIRTY-FIRST YEAR.
NORTH PLATTE, NEB., DECEMBER 12, 1916.
-j.
No. 95
ma shops itKcoaDrExnisn
FOJt NOIITH PLATTE.
If the board of directors of tho Union
Pacific In Now York hoed tho recom
mendations of tho officials at Omahi,
North Platto will have new railroad
shops that will employ sevornl times
aa many men as are now employed.
In the 1917 budget mado by he Omaha
officials, provision Is mado for these
shtfps, which will be sufficient In size
to give employment to five hundred
men whon oporated to the full capac
ity. While those recommendations are
not certain to be adopted by tho boanl
of dirootors and tho appropriation
made, It is believed thnt favorable
action will be taken, as tho present
shops aro inadequate to turn out all
work needed at this terminal.
If money for these shops aro ap
propriatedand the sum is likely to
bo nearly two hundred thousand dol
lars for buildings 'and equipment it
is probablo that they will be erected
near the new round house.
Tho 1917 budget will bo considered
by tho board of directors within he
next few weeks, and the outcome will
then be definitely known. In view of the
tho unusual traffic handled by the
Union Pacific during tho past olghteon
pionths and with prospects of tho vol
ume continuing as large or larger
in the future, thus calling for greater
repair -work at this terminal, it is
generally believed that tho appropria
tion for the shops will bo made.
:o: :
A. 0. U. Y. ELECT OFFICERS
At tho meoting of Tate Lodge, A. O.
U. W. last evening the following of
ficers iwore elected: Master Workman,
Anderson; foreman, Fred Dick; over
seer, Joe Hood; recorder, T. M. Co
hagen; financier, V. VonGoetz', treas
urer, Chas. Erlckson; guide. John
Boyor; trustee, P. H. Sullivan; Iphyslc
lans, Doctors McCabo, Lucas and
Dent; delegates to Omaha convent'on
to bo .hold January 3, 1917, Conrad
Walker. John Boyor, V. VonGoetz and
P. H. Sullivan..
r::o::
Our Christmas display this year far
surpasses former efforts. Wo invito
y6wr inspection. . . " " ''
DIXON, The Jewoler.
The third case against Jim Brsklno
and Myrtlo McClellan for keeping and
soiling intoxicating liquor, will be
heard in the district court today. Somo
little troublo is being experienced in
securing a Jury. A number of tho reg
ular jurors sat on the other two cases
and this has a tendency to disqualify
them from sitting on the present case.
i
The .Man Who Saves Today Provides tor Tomorrow
Here is a Sure, Easy Way to Get
The Xmas Money You Will Need
I
( i" i t
LOCAL AND PERSONAL
Tho Episcopal guild will hold a
social In tho church basement Thurs
day afternoon.
L. E. Sherwood ldft lust night for
Wurtsboro, N. Y whoro lib will make
his future home.
Miss Krumblcs, of Gothenburg, vis
ited for several days last weok with
Miss Elaino Dundy.
Mrs. Ilyan, of Chimney Rock, who
spent several weeks with Mr. and Mrs.
L. L. Bortho, loft yestorday morning.
If you aro looking for a bargain In
n Piano como and see the Schiller
at tho Walker Music Co. in Clinton's.
Wanted Girl for gqnoral house
work. Best wages and no washing.
Mrs. Charles Wholan. 95-tf
Mrs. Katie O'Brien and Mrs. Agnos
Alvard, of Omaha, iwho came last weok
to attond tho Neville reception and
visit Mrs. Magnolia Duke havo return
ed homo.
Tho, ladles' aid of tho piiristlnn
church will hold tholr bazaar at tho
Masonic hall Tuosday, Docombor 19th
They will have a sale of fancy work of
all kinds, also rugs and (IoIIb.
Tho stock of tho Duke wall papor
store fand tho furnishings of the C. O.
D. Cleaners were moved yestorday
from tho Bratt building on Locust to
tho Waltemath building on Sixth.
MIsSjTheo Schwalger entertained th0
membors of tho Brady high school and
Gleo club Saturday evening. Thirty
guests attended and spent several
hours in music and games.
Tho caso of John Bonkosky against
tho Tldball Lumber Co. for damages,
has been settled-by the defendant pay
ing the plaintiff $1200. Tho suit
grew out of tho death of Albert Ben
kosky, who was lulled while at work
in tho Wellfleot elevator, owned and
operated by tho defendant company.
The machine that 'talks and sings is
tho voice of tho home. Today the home
without a Grafanola is like a house
without a book. Fifty different ma
chines to select from.
DIXON, Tho Jewoler.
In Itho district court yesterdny, Geo.
"Yo'ung of Wellfleot, was given a Judg
ment of $187.50 against the Burling
ton Tailroul for hogs killed by a train
of the defendant company. The com
pany resisted payment on tho grounds
that the amount asked was excessive.
Mr. Young sued for $199 In the county
cd"urt and iwas given a Judgment for
that amount in that court, wheroupon
tho company took' an appeal to tho
district court.
It is hard to be broke at Christmas.
A Christmas without money is like June without sunshine.
Somehow it chills us and leaves the day that is joyous and
cheery for others empty and without warmth or pleasure for
us.
JOIN OUR CHRISTMAS SAVINGS
CLUB, WHICH IS NOW OPEN
And make sure of your Christmas money.
. " READ HOW SJMPLE AND EASY IT IS
You can do either of six things you wish.
Join Class No. 2 and pay 2 cents the first week, 4 cents the
second week, 6 cents the third week, and so on for 50 weeks.
Then at the end of fifty weeks we will pay you $25.50.
Or join Class 5 and pay 5 cents the first week, 10 cents the
second week, 15 cents the third week, and so on for 50 weeks.
Then at the end of fifty weeks we will pay you $63.75.
Or, if you wish, you may begin paying the biggest payments,
' and pay less each week.
Still again, you may join both classes, beginning with the
lowest payments on one and the highest on the other. Or join
Class 50 and pay 50c each week, or join Class 100 and pay '
$1.00 each week.
Let every member of the family join one or another of the
Clubs. YOU CAN JOIN RIGHT NOW.
Call and let us tell you about our plans.
First National Bank
NORTH PLATTE NEBRASKA,
Mrs. II. M. Grimes will entertain tho
A. K. clmptor, P. E. 0. tomorrow nttor
noon. Jay Smith who had boon employed
In Chicago for a year past has return
ed home.
The Woman's Homo Missionary So
ciety will meet with Mrs. Robert Dean,
303 east Third stro.t, Friday after
noon, j
How to look your host demonstrated
at the Coatos Beauty Parlor.
Miss Josslo VanBrocklln, of Sldnoy,
formorly of this city came tho lnttor
'part of last week to visit hor mothor
Mrs. Zolla VanBrocklln for two weeks;
Attorneys W. V. Iloaglaud, J. G.
Boolor and J. J. Halligan who spent
a couplo of weeks -In Washington, D.
O., on .business portalnlng to cases
before tho Supreme court havfc return
ed home.
Mr. and Mrs. Jake Mang will leave
this evoning for Omnha whoro tho
former will' bo oporated mpon. Mr.
Mang had boon in poor honlth for a
couple of years past and has had sovon
operations performed.
Wanted Girl for gcnornl housework.
apply 112 West 1th street
C. II. Walters, tho local buyer, will
ship out four cara of hogs today, tho
greator part of which ho purchased
from armors In tho Horshey and Suth
erland soctlons. Mr. Walters for somo
time past has boon shipping from
Wur to six cars each 'Week.
Tho ladles aid society of tho Chris
tian church will servo tho following
menu at tholr bazaar Tuesday, Decomr
ber 19th: 1 Roast turkey and dressing,
mashed potatoes, brown gravy, cream
ed peas, cabbago salad, hot rolls, cran
berry sauce, celery, steamed pudding
with sauce, coffee.
A light snow fell Sunday morning
and for a time It looked as though
the banana belt might havo a touch
of real winter weather. Sunday night
the temperature dropped io eight de
grees above zero, but yostonlay tho
sun shono bright and tho atmosphere
Just cool enough to bo bracing.
Suggested, by tho famous poem "Cas
ey at tho Bat'-' will be tho Trlangld
feature at tho Keith 'Thursday night.
This feature tells of tho downfall dur
ing a final tost of strength between
tho ball nines of Mudvlllo and Frog-,
town. Dowolf Hopper, who by the wny
has boon an ardont ball Fan all
through his career, gives tho story a
delightful interpretation. With this
Will bo shown VLovo'a Getaway" with
Fay Tincher. 10 and 15 cents.
- f. .,
,
1 , y.
it
i
I
-5'
it iM
SELLS SHOE
STOKE TO E. K. BUCK
Harry 13. Lawson, proprietor of
Harry's Shoo Shop, located in the
Ivolth ithcatfo building, disposed of
tho st6re yostorday to H. K. Duck, of
Omaha, who owns a chain of olght
stores, and who has boon in tho shoo
business for fourteen years. Tho local
sforo will bo in chargo of W. J. Uoth,
an axporlonced shoo man, who arrived
from Omaha yostorday. In convorsa
tloh with Air. Buck, it was learned that
tho Btock In North PIntto will bo on
larged, the lino to bo carried to moot
tho posslblo needs of ovory customer,
Conducting tho chain of stores that he
ddoa Mr. Duck has the advantage of
groat "buying powor and purchasing
in wych largo quantities from the man
ufacturer naturnllv on n bins lilm (in
buy cjiadpor than the ono buying In
lassor OliantltV mill Min niirclinanr nt
a ipair 61 shoes shares lp the reduction
rccoIvQd.
Mr. Lawson has not at this tlmo do
elded whoro ho will looato. Ho and
Mrs. Lrtwson- oxpoct to tnko a woll
earned vacation and will visit rela
tives for somo tlmo.
Mr. Lawson has proven a auccoss
ful bWjlnoss man. a might good oltlzon
and tfo rogroti will -bo gonoral that
ho and Mrs. Lawson aro to leave us.
, ;:o::
C6immuiItysClirIstnias Tree,
Everyone is vory enthusiastic over
tli6 Community Christmas Trco which
the Twentieth Century Woman's club
Is planning for Christmas night on tho
ctmrt houso lawn. Tho various lodges
aro gonorously donating toward tho
candy;. Mr, Carman will glvo a free
ticket to tho "movies to ovory child,
thoro will bo u Teally, frilly Santa
Claus, so lot all got the real spirit
of tho season and mako ns many happy
aa possible. There will also bo Christ
mas baskets for all needing them. Lot
everyone help In some way. Tolophono
to tho president, Mrs. J. H. Hegnrty,
just what you will do.
:o: :-
STOCK. PA 1131 SNAP.
vImpioT(l Stock Farm of 610 acres,
FrnjaV.voJynjr, Jmrii, wall nnd. wind
mill 'Only $.",.00 per ncre. Ensy terms.
HUCHANAN & 1'ATTEIISOK.
; ::o::
Ms. Mary J3akor recently returned
frpm' Indiana whero for sovernl wooks
sho visited hqr brother who Is vory
wealthy and, nt Christmas tlmo gives
gonorouBly to charity and divides
$G,000 among his nieces and nephews.
Mrs. Baker's seven children who ro-
sldo horo each received a chpek for ono
hundred dollars.
Miss, Pauline Mayo, of Lincoln gayo
a pleasing ntbrtalnmcnt Saturday ev
ening under 'thn auspices of the high
school cad'ots. The attondanco iwas
largo and each number of tho pro
gram thoroughly enjoyed. Miss Mnyo
is a reader of unusual ability
A marriage llconso was issupd yes
torday to Pearl M. Davis of Portland
and Frank It. Whyto of this city, who
has been In chargo of tho construction
of several now buildings hero.
Tho Swedish Lutheran Svea Society
will meet with MlsBes Anno, and Emma
Anderson, 414 east Eleventh street)
Thursday afternoon Dec. 14th.
Yestorday Jas. Itoso purchased sec
tion 15 miles south of Dlgnoll for
$7,500. , Tho deal was mad through
Eugono Combs,
Miss Nac-ml Moyor returned a fow
days ago from .Gothonbuirg whoro sho
visited relatives for a ,weok.
Mrs. Frank Elliott and son LaVorno
loft last evoning for California to spond
several weeks.
The Mothers' iclub will bo tho guests
of Mrs. Albert Muldoon tomorrow nf
tcrnoon.
County Judgo French returned Inst
evening from a visit In Omnha and
Kansas City.
Card o f viiunkH.
Wo wish to oxtond our sincere
thnnks to tho kind friends and neigh
bors, Masonic ordor,' Methodist aid so
ciety and International Association of
Machinists, for tho kindnoss during
the illness and death of our llttlo
dnughtor.
MR. und MRS, HERMAN SAGESSER.
::o::-
ISTUSJ3 BHOWN MEMORIAL
HOMEOPATHIC HOSPITAL
Tho llfo of this institution come
thiough the successful uno of tho true
and tried Homeopathic romedyf noth
ing healing more auickly, more easily,
mo.o permanently.
Hero Is a hosnltal that is maklne It-
solf known by good results In Major
and Minor Surgory, and which Is tho
Homo or orlflclal Surgory with ac
complishments that no othor svstom
can daro challongo In tho troatmont of
acute and citron lo diseases.
1008 M'ost -Mi St. North Pintle, Nob.
John S. Twinoin, M. 1).
LOCAL AND PEIiSONAL
M. J. McDonald7 Was summoned to
Columbus Saturday evening by tho
donth of his slstor.
Mrs. Asa Snow returned to Suther
land Sunday ovonlng nftor visiting
with Mr. and Mrs, Lorn Ualloy,
Diamonds arc nWo and profltablo
InvosUuont.
DIXON', Tho Jowolor.
Tho Roboknh Degroo hold a soolal In
tho I. O. O. F. hall Friday nftornoon
which was given a liberal patronngo.
A baby girl' was bom t& Mr. and
Mrs. II. L. Ponnlngton Saturday ovon
lng."Mothor and babe aro doing nlcoly.
Mothodlst lndloa who havo fancy
work for Iho fair Saturday will ploano
sond tholr artlclqa to Mrs. ,Sanford
Hnrtmnn not lntor than Thursday.
An olectlon of officers will bo hold
at tho regular mooting or tho Yeoman
lodge this evening. All membors aro
requested to bo prosont.
When left to us, is not pexplexing, for we
can undoubtedly solve this for you to:
your entire satisfaction.
Christmas Trees and Decorations
We ar'e undeniably Headquarters for Christmas Trees and Dec
orations, Lest you forget, wo say it yet, that our Trees and
Decorations are the best on 1lic ''market: ' W6 have ' taken'
pains to secure only the heaviest bushiest trees obtainable.
OUR HOLLY is extra well berried and green leaved, and our
MISTLETOE is very attractive to the feminine eyes and is
sure to produce the desired results, lie sure to place your
orders early to get your pick.
CHRISTMAS TREE HOLDERS 7
The best and most practical tree-holders ever offered. In color
to correspond with your decorations, and will hold any par
lor size tree securely.
Christmas Candies and Nuts
We are headquarters for Woodward's Pure Sugar Candies and
our supply is unlimited. Remember Woodward's Candies
are tjie kind you always, come back, for, because' they consist
of nothing except tlje best of materials and workmanship.
The demand for these candies exceeded our expectations last
Christmas, but we are prepared to take care of all and every
one this year. Special Prices for Churches and Schools
in Large Quantities.
Far the next two weeks we are going to have an attractive spe
cial on Woodward's Chocolates, Regular Fifty Cents
a Pound Value for Thirty Cents.
These are the hard and solf conter and nut topped
and absolutely the fmest that can be had, Order
now lor immediate delivery.
Nuts! Nuts! Nuts! Nuts!
The old saying, used to be that Nuts were an injury to digestion
and should not be eaten too freely. Doctors now proclaim
that the little fruit is not only liarmless, but beneficial, and
should be eaten regularly, with the exception of after a
full meal. We handle nothing but the No. 1 grade in all
our nuts, which is far cheaper to buy than the lower grades
ds they arc free from all rots and shells.
California Oranges
This week California Navel Oranges will bo the cheapest' that
they have been for some time.
Special Sale Wodnesday, Thursday, Friday and Sat
urday of this week on these Bright and Juicy Navels:
Regular 80c Value for 50c a Dozen '
Regular 50c Value for 40c a Dozen
Regular 45c Value for 35c a Dozen
Regular 40c Value for 30c a Dozen
A Half Box of Oranges, or a box of our Extra Fancy Eat
ing Apples would make an appreciated Christmas present.
"Save When You Buy and Save After You Buy."
' LIERK-SANDALL CO.
Tho Golden Rulo Dlblo clnsji' of tho
Prosbytorlan church will moot -with
Mrs. Dllllon Friday aftornoon.
Tho Luthoran aid society will bo cn
tortnlnod at tho homo of Mrs. J. E.
Sobnstlan, 911 east 2d streot. Thurs
day aftornoon. A largo attendance' Is
desired. .
Weather forecast for-North Platto
nnd vicinity: Partly cloudy today
much colder tonight, Wednesday fair
and colder. Hlghost tomporaturo yed
torday 28, a year ago 34; lowost last
night 18, n year ago 20.
insujIancIC
Wo write every kind of best Insur
ance nt wry lowest lutes, on houses,
stores, bulldlnps, merchandise, nuto.
mobiles, bonds 0f nil kinds, 'stenm
boilers, pinto plnss, llvo slock, nml
tho best nml chenpest Llfo Insurance
written in th0 (rrent Mutunl Llfo of
Now York. Our record: Noter failed (o
pny nn honest loss promptly.
HRATT. GOODMAN & M'CKLI'Y.
varieties,
a pound
