1
, The Lancaster News
VOL. 12, NO. 18, SEMI-WEEKLY. LANCASTER, S. C., TUESDAY. DEC. 12, 11110. 41 A
ONE-CENT POSTAGE I
FOB LOCAL LETTERS
BILL CARRIES $327,000,000
New Postoffice Measure Proposes
Lower Rate on Local FirstClass
Deliveries.
Washington, Dec. 9.?One cent
postage for local first class mail de- ;
liveries, and a zone system of rates
for second class matter, which isj
exnected to ~
. vw r~>' v ?? v ? v 111V. 1 C<lOt* Lilt; I
charges for magazines and other pe-j
riodicals having a nation-wide circulation,
aro provided for in the annual
postoftice appropriation bill as
virtually completed today in committee.
The measure, carrying appropriations
totalling about $327,000,OO0,
probably will be reported to the
House next week.
Under the one cent postage provision
the rate on letters and other ,
mail matter of the llrst class, when
deposited in any postofflce, or branch |
postolflce, or letter box, or postofflce
in the delivery district, for delivery
within the limits of the postollice,
city or rural delivery district, would
be cut in half.
The zone proposal for handling
newspapers and magazines, which
now pay a flat rate of one cent a
pound, is regarded as one of the
most radical changes in postage rates
in years. It divides the country Into
eight zones, with rates chargeable
ranging from one cent for 300 miles
to six cents for 1,81(0 miles or .more.
The bulk of daily newspapers, the
committee believes, will not be af-J
fected, because they do not circulate
beyond a three-hundred mile radius.
The provision follows:
That all newspapers, mauazinys,
?and other publications regularly admitted
to the mails as a matter of
he second ctn?u W'tion mnllnil ?->?
publisher, shall hereafter be subject
to .the following rates of postage, th?
zone system now applying to parcel
post matter to be adapted also t<
second clnss matter:
"Local, first, second and third zone
(under three hundred miles)., one
cent per pound.
"Fourth zone (three hundred to six
hundred miles), two cents per pound
"Fifth zone (six hundred to one
thousand miles), three cents pet
pound.
"Sixth zone ( 1,000 to 1,400 miles),
four cents a pound.
"Seventh zone (1.400 to 1.800
miles), five cents a pound.
"Eighth zone (over 1.800 miles),
six cents a pound.
"Provided, the free-in-county circulation
provided by law^ shall con*
tinue as at present.
The Postmaster (leneral shali
have authority to require publishers
to separate their 4mail into zones
when offered for mailing."
Among other provisions, the bill
increases rates for mail order catalogues
from two to eight cents a
pound, making them third class matter,
instead of parcel post; raises the
limitations on promotions of clerks
and pnrrlpo in fl rut elocu ond uno/xn/1
class postofTlces; broadens the postmaster
general's authority to dea.
with lotteries, drugs and poisons and
Increases the rural mail delivery appropriation
by $4,000,000 over the
$4 9,000,000 recommended by Assistant
Postmaster General Hlakslee.
Chairman Woon, of the postoflic*
committee, said tonight that the bi'l
still was subjeet to change before
being reported, and that the question
of hearings on the proposed pnen
matic tube service appropriation was
in abeyance.
s w?P KlfiM WILD GISKHR.
Of interest to the friends of lion
Claud N. Sapp, assistant attorne;
general, is the following from The ^
State of Sunday last:
Claud N, Sapp nnd Pred Kortright
returned yesterday from a huntin'
expedition to Montgomery, in Itich- |
land county, bringing two fine wild
geese as the spoils of the chase. The ]
hunters earned the hag for the geesot 1
were not killed until they had spent
the night.at Montgomery and watch-j
ed most of the day for the approach
Af the game. The two gcose were; 1
*' shot In the afternoon by Mr. Sapp
but fell into Broad river. Mr. Kort- |
right was not to be robbed of the
spoils of victory after having spent
a whole day in pursuit, so he waded
and swam into the river and brought i
both birds t<5 the shore.
Wm% I
JifSlQ
OLDEST CHRISTMAS CUSTOM
Dfrnntlnn Hnii>?? ri...?>u.. ?
..v . viiuiviic* ?rii? i
Streets With Evergreen Popular
Since Dawn of History.
PERHAPS the very oldest of all
Christmas customs is that oi
decorating our houses, churches
and streets with evergreens.
At the very dawn of history began the
worship of the trees, or forest worship,
and the groves were man's first temples.
All our instincts, our passion about
nature, are forest memories, for forest
worship was universal.
In later times to each god some tree
was dedicated: Apollo had the laurel,
Jupiter the oak, and Greece for ages
had Its sucred groves.
The forest worshipers could not
worship without giving, because to
worship is to give, and these boughs
and garlands were the oldest gifts of
man. Before he hod learned to shape
offerings of his own rude skill he could
bring to the sacred trees and hang up
on them the first flowers and greenery
of spring and the perfect fruits of autumn.
These gifts, remember, were never,
as with us. decorations; they were sacrifices.
The Romans, with a fine eye for
beauty, used to garland their temples
and homos and gathering plnces and
even the big Coliseum with boughs of
green and ropes of flowers. This particular
custom was received by the
Christians with a special sort of approval,
recalling, as It did. the fart
that our Lord entered Jerusalem amid
the strewn branches of the multitude.
We must not forget the welcome and
lovely mistletoe and holly. Indeed,
Christmas without them would not,
with us. seem quite complete.
Mistletoe was for ages regarded as
sacred by the old British pagans?the
Druids?and was surrounded with
great mystery and sentiment, little un
uersioou uy us.
It was supposed to posses* healing |
powers and that it could ward off evil j
spirits. The reverence paid to this!
little parasite seems to have been restricted
lo it. only, when It was found I
growing on the sacred oak trees in the I
Druids' proves.
Once every year the Druid high
priest cut it with a golden sickle,
blessed it and distributed the sprays
among the people, praying aloud that
each one who received it might receive
divine blessings, of which it was the
symbol. Having received the sprays,
the people hung them above the doors
to propitiate the gods during the year.
The only remaining significance attached
today to the mistletoe is the
idea that If a maiden is not kissed
under it on Christmas day she will go
unwed throughout the year. This idea
goes so far back into the past that one
cannot trace it.
It is because the mistletoe 1* rare
and not ca?y to get that we found
and brought forward the holly, which,
though lovely, is used only as a substitute
for the mistletoe.?New York
World.
SKItVN'F. MOKK THAN (.IVINH.
The deepest spirit of the Christmas
outpouring that Hows over the Christian
world is the Impulse for liumnn
service that runs through the whole
year.
it Is easy to Rive recklessly out of
one's abundance, or even to share carefully
one's pittance. The distribution
of Christmas dinners through hundreds
of self-denying families means a
day's hnppiness for the giver and receiver.
Hut it is greater happiness to
both to follow through the year with |
nid to self-dependence, encouragement 1
to hope, and support In striving for
better living.
This Is the giving of self, and they j
who know how to give of themselves
wisely are the highest givers. The
best feature of Christmas Is its material
expression of a whole year of'
human service that runs like a thread
through human lives.
Only these holiday glimpses reveal
to the careless how many are dedicated
to a share In this unobtrusive
Bervice to the humbly striving and to
the uncomplaining needy; how many
families are under constant stimulus
to the best sort of self-help; how many
children are being quietly led to a
higher level of living and striving for
themselves between Christmas and
Chrlstuma.
PECTNG
| -'. -! rH ?H jfc Ht 5H ^ SK & ?K Ht rK rH Ht rfc rH rH rK fit rK -it rh -it
* OUR CHRISTMAS WISH.
*
* * !
* *
As tin* year draws to its close, we hope it has
* . .
^ boon a good one for you and that the incoming *
* twelve months will prove the brightest star in your l
* firmament of business life. May Christmas joys ^
* abound in your personal circles and may the Now
* Year materialize the evident promises of groat (
* prosperity. The Lancaster News.
*
r!- * * * vr -m * * * * v.- ya ya * * m *. as * ya ya. * + *
ItOWKLL-BAKKINH. IIKATII SPRINGS NEWS.
Thursday afternoon, December !*.i ,, . ? . , ...
. ? . , , , . 1 Death Springs, Dec. 1 i. Electm
at 3 o clock a simple but beaut if I
wedding was that of Miss Ella Row. ,iBhtB- wi,h P?wer ,rom "" SPr,n*
ell of Tabernacle and Mr. Springs banking and Mercantile <'ompan\
Raskins of Rich Hill. have been installed in the Mason <
They were married at the bride's hall helful to the community.
home by Rev. T. A. Dabney. Then- p,'s of ,he property. This is quite a
were only a few near relatives prep- addition to the convenience of fh
ent, no cards being issued. The par- hall and helpgul to the community.
lor was tastefully decorated with George Bell of Hopewell. \ a
beautiful chrysanthemums and lace ha- been here for several days or. :
ferns. visit to his parents. Mr. and Mrs. J.
The bride was handsomely dresseu I Bell.
in a blue serge coat suit with acres Mr. Jasper Ellis, a member of tin
sor'os to match. First S. ('. Regiment. Xntiona'
They left immediately after th Guard, recently mustered out of sir-!
ceremony for the groom's home at vice, visited his brother. 0. D. and \
Rich Hill amid showers of rice and \V. <'. Ellis, last week.
old Shoes. The bride is the charmln* l); j w 11. Dyches is in attend
|nnd only daughter of Mr and Mrs ftru.e upon fhe Baptist Sta.e Convcn- !
W. P. Rowell. The groom is a son , on ;tf .Wwberry this we-k.
of Mr. and Mrs. J. F. Raskins and a ,, .
At the regular communication < 1
progressive farmer of Kieh Hill. ,, , , v. ..
' . II rron Lodge, No. 1. A. A: F. M .
Their nianv friends wish them a ,, _.
k ndav night, the following ofneor*happy
and prosperous life. .
v> ? niHiiiiMMi xcir in?i pn?u?' '
I^|rp111) \ \' |? \ |?tv j Masonic yi . I 1) W illi<1 ins, \\
Tabernacle, Dec. 9.?Little M'sn M- JeflHe Mobley. St.. \V\. J W. II.
Neorna Carnes celebrated her 11th:I,voheK* Jr W J* A ,Mark Sr D birthday
Saturday. December 9th. by 11 w Mobley. ^ ?>-. A. I Mackey.
givfng her little friends a partv. A "* A- Williams, rreas , H. I\
number of lively sanies were enjoy- Mobley and W. S. Mowers, stewards,
ed, after which they were ushered W Vaushn, T.
Into the dining room where a deli- ^r- E- Hammond, with his
clous sweet course was served by the family, moved into his commodious
hostess* older sisters. Misses EfH( residence on Main street. Monday,
and Annie Cameo. Her little, friends' Mr. D. D. Williams is attending
left her many Dttle remembrance- the annual meeting of the Grand
and wishes her many more such oc- Lodge of South Carolina, A. & F. M .
casions. at Charleston ta.? week.
c/>5
1&) ' -?.-^
1)/ / Ur?**- >" - " - Jfcl
van aviiii ? ^
IIHUIHY HAT UN
EARLY SHOPPING
By JOHN STOCK BRIDGE.
<-s. < 's OU cun say for me,"
1* _i stated Timothy
| | Hay, when seen
J I this morning by a
m-T reporter, "that this
\ " y?ur * Chrlst|-V
mas- shopping-early
stunt is all off with
l'J=a nie now and forever,
one and indivisible, world without
end, amen.
"I started to do my Christmas shopping
early," continued Timothy, giving
his tllvver a disciplinary kick as it
growled at a passing terrier, "but it
was right on the start that 1 overtook,
discovered and otherwise apprehended
the Scnegaml inn in the woodpile.
"Christinas shopping, you are at liberty
to quote me as saying in your
valuable me Hunt, is hunk if you add
au 'early' to it.
"It was about Thanksgiving time, if
I recollect rightly, that we were lirst
admonished to do our Christmas shopping
early. It struck me as the proper
thing to do. I decided I'd do it.
"Naturally, the thought lirst caneto
me what to give myself for Christmas.
I always hand myself some slight
token of my esteem at the happy yuletide.
It compensates for what other
folks hand me. A little gift doesn't
ibmm.
"I Decided on a Haircut for My Christmas
Gift to Myself."
have to cost very much to make a
hit with me if I give it to myself with
the proper spirit.
"It's the giving, rather than the receiving,
of this gift that brings me the
more pleasure, anyway.
"Well, gasoline has been going up
pretty steadily lately?you notice 1 do
not talk in dialect in spite of my rural
name and predilections; if I talkthi in
dialect I would say gas was goin' up
party stiddy?and, due to the increased
cost of living expenses, I decided that
it behooved me to economize.
"So I decided on a haircut for my
Christmas gift to myself, and I decided
to get it early on account of the poor,
tired shopgirls who are wishing the
cfiirn woiilft / !/??*? * ??*
in a few more dances with the flashing
young rihhon clerks three aisles over.
"Whereupon I got a haircut, a good,
short one.
"The rest of the story is soon told.
I got it cut again last night, and 1
had to wait for six custom* rs ahead
of nie who were telling the barbers to
shave 'em extra close so it would last
over to Monday.
"That much for early Christinas
shopping. I bought tin juidt for the.
folks after they'd locked the street
doors Jast night and have just been
making the rounds of the drug stores
to pick up the odds end ends I've forgotten.
No more Christmas shopping!
in niihe. (Jiddap. Dobbin."
And with a peremptory cluck to his'
steed. Timothy llay motored away in
high dudgeon.- Denver Times.
A Sweet Revenge.
"I sent my present fo Nellie Slyboots
when she was at her club, and '
1 knew all the girls and fellows would
gather around to see her open It/' l
"Why, I thought you didn't like Nel- i
lie." ,
"I can't hear her. The present was (
u nice long hair switch."
yj-.wu ii X U/l
GERMAN TAKE 70.000
MEN ANO UNTOLD BOOTY
TEUTONS USE SPEEDY TANK
German I isht Cruiser Evaded
British Blockade?Scouting
on High Seas.
The importance of the success of
the Teutonic armies on the battle
elds in the vicinity of Bucarest is
emphasized by the announcement
that, since December 1, the Rumanians
have lost in prisoners morethan
70,000 men, 184 cannon and
120 machine guns, and the losses in
dead and wounded are declared to
he in proportion to the number of
prisoners. The booty taken by the
Teutonic armies is reported as "incalculable."
The ultimate fate of the Rumanian
armies still is in doubt, but they
continue to retreat before the Teutonic
Allies, whose pursuit, it is .announced.
"is progressing as planned."
Strong Russian Attacks.
The Russians have again laundietj
strong attacks on the upper Moldatvian
and Transvlvanian frontiers,Aiat"
the majority of them are reported to
have failed, with heavy losses. SOme
ground, however, was gained north
of Borna-Watia and Russian troops
dislodged hostile forces from two
heights in the Butna valley region,
taking some prisoners and machine
Willis. Th?' battle south of Javovnitv;\.
in the wooded Carpathians, .has
ceased and the Russians have retjred
to their entrenchments. In colisequeiice
of the retreat eastward of the
Rumanian troops. Russian troops on
their left flank also have been dom?
pelled to retire. ;
t >n tin- Macedonian Front. *
The Kntente forces again hav<8 delivered
attacks in the bend of'the
Corna river, on the Macedonian front.
There has been vilent artillerv
ing ?n the Pontine trout and inlthe
vicinity of 11:11 :?01. at Verdun"
The reply of the German chancellor,
Dr Von llethmann-Hollwef# to
the latest representations of ?the
United States government regarding,
the Helgian labor deportations ig expected
to be delivered today ott tomorrow,
and i* is stated that itjwill'
be couched in the friendliest
terms" and go as far as possibly toward
meeting the American wishes..
Certain concessions, it is understood,,
may be made because of the promise
of the Dutch consul at Antwerp, after
the surrender of that city, that
l.elgians would not be deported.
German Cruiser Ikiosc.
A fierman warship, described as alight
cruiser, is operating in the Atlantic.
according to the statement of
a British sea captain, who declares
that his vessel was held up by the
Germans and examined. Agitation in
London shippim. circles for the-convoying
of merchantmen has resulted.
One thousand persons are reported
to have been killed by an exploa
..... ... ii HU--.I.UI a iii 111U ii 11 ion laclory.
German "Tanks."
The German military authorities
have evolved what is declared to bean
improvement upon the British
"tanks" used on the Somtne front,,
and have given them a test in the Rumanian
campaign, with marked suce<
ss. In contrast with the slow pace
ot the cars used by the British, the
German "tanks" run* at a speed ot
twenty-five miles an hour.
A new British war council, ot
which thf premier, David Lloyd-- t
Georcre. is a member, is declared by
the London livening News to havei .
been in session all day Saturday.
Arranpements'have boon made forthe
exchange of German and Itritish
civilian prisoner more than fortyfive
years old.
See* N'Wil of fit idgc.
It does seem that, the officials
of York and Lancaster counties
would get together and bulfd a
bridge across Sugar Greek at the old
Dohy's bridge site, which could* not
cost either county mum thaTTTt few
hundred dollars, racff^lhan see the
government discont irfqfa dail^' mail
service to scores of Outlast citizen*
of the two counties. It looks likesomebody
ts "laying on his Job" Ilk
this matter.?Fort Mill Times.
i if
