THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Rain or snow to-day and colder at
night; to-morrow fair and colder.
Highest temperature yesterday, 41; lowest, 30
De tailed weather, mall and tmrlne report on pago 13.
IT, SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 103.
f-f
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, DECEMBER
aBBBaV W jUvSVSBBBBBsVSBHLBr VBBks&M
MOYER PLEDGES
MEN'FAIR DEAL'
New Warden of King Shijr, Due
To-dny, Won't Cause Big
Upheaval.
CONVICTS ARE ANXIOUS
Some of 1,500 Inmates Put in
Close Confinement nml
(inn rd Is Doubled.
William H. Moyer will 'assume. Ills
duties as warden of King Sing prison at
It o'clock this morning.
"I go to Sing Ping." he said last night
tt the Hotel niltmorc, "without any pre
conceived notions as to what should or
should not be done. 1 go there for the
purpose of doing the Institution and the
prisoners as much good as J can. !
can assure every man of a fair deal."
Tut while lie was conferring with
T.ms. M. fnrfr sltiil.. Kimar In .ni1,ii(
of Prisons. ,asl night, the 1500 convicts
who to-day will become Ills charges
were held from expected violence by the
redoubling of guards, close confinement
and other curbs that have not been ap
plied for years.
Moer faces his Job with CaWh In
himself and his methods, and the full
support of Supt. Carter and Gov. Whit
man. He meets to-day men who arc re
sentful of the ousting of Thoman Mott
Osborne. They dread the regime of
Moyer, despite the pledge given by him
last night of a square deal and a con
tinuance of humane methods.
Hp Will Retain "Goad" .Methods.
Mr. Moyer said :
"Whatever methods are In existence
there now that I find arc good wilt be
retained, If greater good cannot be ob
tained by other methods. I haven't been
In Sing Sing or Auburn for fifteen years.
I am not acquainted with conditions In
Sing Sing now and therefore am not In
a position to say what shall be cllml-1
nated or what shall be approved."
However, the conferences he" has held
with Oov. Whitmkn and Supt. Carter
to the prison taking the last three
ears as a perspective will be Intro
duced. Stated briefly the changes will
be these:
The old system, that of cruelty, un
necessary restriction and the complete
absence of privilege, will not return.
Sing Sing will be governed on humane
liner, on the practl.-cs that have proved
certain amount of honor may be ex
pected from convicts.
Ill.elpllne to Be Tightened.
Sing Sing will be levelled to the stand
nl thut obtains In other prisons In the
State, ntid this same modification toWard
unity will be carried Into effect In Au
burn. Both these Institutions have been
ton.plcuoiiH for their departure from the
Kierity that prevnlls In Dannemora.
There will be a slight loosening of the
Mrlngency In Dannemora and a tighten-(
.iig of discipline at Sing Sing and
Auburn, notably In the Utter prison.
The Mutual Welfare League Is due
for several shocks. Its ijwer for self
oi eminent will bo considerably cur
tailed and many of tho privileges en
.''Jed by Its officers will bo cut off. It
I- imsalblc there will be a wholesale re.
:.:;.'';o;cfr,i,!;heyprairn. TJ"WW g'i
fined completely by Warden Moyrr.
Only as one of the Internal activities I
tli.it operate toward the Industrial ami
c 'mi advantage of the prison will it bc
Mlalned.
r.i.il of Conrlrt t'llqaes.
Tje clique of convicts who have doml
r.H't.l the prison body will find them
s'lvo. shorn of much of their self-dele-K..U.1
power. They will bc advised
atrer than advlsens. There will be a
spreidlng of such authority as the new
nrden and tho Prison Superintendent
ire t Invest with tho inmates.
D'splie, tho apparent firmness of the
character of Warden Moyer. despite his
experience and self-reliance, he will lake
' i orders on principal prison icforms
I'nni the Superintendent who, of course, I
will h.cludc the Governor's wishes with) Wlllard I). Rockefeller and the present)
lis own Nothing radical will bd nt- UtalT. I
I'ini uy me xvaroen vvimuui inu ap- .
proval of his superiors.
.No mlstaku can be made about War- , nPss. having been associated with the
den Moyer's llrmness. He Is a huge Knlcket booker, the Holland House and
Mock of a man all man, broad of u,p Harvard Club.
"':W'r and Ihltrt of chest. He weighs .
"'wmrrce uCLK?kHii'EW TARNOWSKI NOTE BY U. S.
ii laconic to a degree. Ills humor Is i
mild, with a touch of grlmness. i
ii win encourage outdoor sports
within prison limits as much as sis-
HMe. He believes strongly in permitting
;m ' siro..K., in .ei..i.iiiK
whenever It will not Inter-'
he prison discipline. Sing
not lose ItH band or Its
men in talk
're with the
Ni.g will
not
"movler." while ho Is warden. But he
l' not put lemptatlcn to escape In the
"15 of prisoners. Which mi. ins that
... , ,
t 'lK trni men will iu( 1m l'Iicii iiiiv
"ii.ty" vvoik tliat will get then within
II of the ,.,, road. ,
"
Tllle of
The
l.lou
Mover aliea.lv has won the
'The Lion Tamer" among the Slug Slur
ni.victs. in the Hhnps. Ill the "front
oth e and , the prison yard practically
1.1 Work fnin 1,. t-..t.1ki!l onu.ar.l'.i
Tin .nen speculated pessimistically about !
t. ..... ' .1
noirtid ihr.,....ic,. ,. f...ist.
' an unrest which Calvin Dei rick,
ling warden, feared would have an
'UMopping f violence or etcai.o. He
111 what he could to assure them the
'"Muni Welfare League would not be
I'ojlien up. but tho "Sing Sing under
eruiind" had a dlfferer.t re.ort,
To forestall any attempt at a prison
' i. very or riot all privileges were out
' " The men who fur years have worked
In the warden's olllce, men like
'' 5f Hudson, a life prisoner: James
laaikitt and Joe llueklns, long term
' ' ' . were sent to their cells early III the
'"li in. ,oti, The stable gang was called
ii. .v v, o'clock and the night vun went
Ji "ho fHKinlmr station dilven by a
VeT,.r Instead of Rlchird Duggan, tho
usii.il driver
Ine guards at the prison bounilarlcs
en .loubk'd, extia men patrolled tho
"0 ami along the river fiont four
' Sl.is were kept In full alow all night.
I'KW . WINES. tlHACK ANY TAHI.K.
' ...akfrs for years inesns lot.
' ' '.linn ut.. ,v. y. ptioae loot fort.
- H.rii.rmMf,
a.ivent. ny nightfall they hail,'"" .IV . ".' .
TRANSPORT SUMNER IS
ASHORE OFF BARNEGAT
U. S. Army Vessel on Way Here
From Panama Canal Sends
Out s 0 S1' Coll.
The United States army transport
Sumner, hound to New York from the
Canal Zone with United States soldiers,
civilian passenger, malls and supplies,
lan ashore In a dense fog last midnight
near Harncgat, N. J. she sent out an
"S O 8'' call which was picked up by
the wireless station at tho New Y01I;
navy yard In ltrooklyn and several
coistw-lso vessels. At an early hour this
morning two revenue cutters and a half
dozen sieamshlps were rushing to he.
assistance. A wireless, from the Sumner said she
was near Harncgat, but could not tell her
exact position on airount of the fog. The
wireless operator nald she was appar
ently "pretty well up on the beach." be-
cause he could hear the surf very clearly.
n nun inier message salil the sea was
running lighter and that the ship was
"resting easily" In the sand.
The coast guard cutter Seneca, which
was cruising on Moutnuk Point, picked
tip the "S O S" and expected to reach
fV Sav anmT ffi
bound to New York from Savannah,
wirelessed that she would be alongside
the Sumner about 3 A. M.
The Sumner sailed fiom Cristobal on
December under command of Capt.
Webber. The ship was originally a
German merchantman and was acquired
by the United States Government In the
Spanish-American war.
.
CITY WILL HAVE HEW
1,000 ROOM HOTEL
Joseph J. Launin of Garden
City Fame to Build nt 7th
Avenue and 56th Street.
New York Is to have another splendid I
. . . ... 1
notei. one or a thousand rooms and all
or the features which make un the
i mnftprh SM,.tjri. K.m.Mi,....' t .
Hotel and better known as the former
owner of ther'ch'atnplon Boston lied Box,
Is to be the builder, owner and proprie
tor. Kor the site he purchased yester
day the northwest corner of Seventh ave
nue and Fifty-sixth street, now occupied
by the old Hotel Grenoble and several
other buildings. Construction will be
started a soon the plans can be pre
pared. Details are not available, but Mr.
Lannln said last night that It wilt he
a distinct advance over the present
types. The plot cost about tsoo.ooo
What he will snend on th hiillillnir will
not lie known until the architects liaeKn! between the two tnuntrles su wide
nnisneu ineir worn.
Having the low Broadway Tabernacle
on the west of It and the seven story
Carnegie Hall across Seventh avenue
from It, the new hotel will be favored
by exceptional light and air. The Inver-
another old hotel, adjoins tho site
on Seventh avenue. The William 1..
Sutphln Realty Company sold the site
to .nr. uinmn.
Mr. Launlu will continue to manage
the Garden City Until, one of The largest
suburban hotels In thli part of the
country.
YOUNGEST HOTEL PROPRIETOR.
. ...
J !, - Take. Over the
Iniurrlnl'e Msnagrmrnl,
.1, Otto Stock became yesterday the
youngest hotel proprietor In New York
city. He has taken over the Hotel Im
perial at Itroadway and Thirty-second
street. He Is 32 years old. llther
..... t.n... n nnru nr. Inliti Xlrl linn.
' ! . .... . I
man of the iilltmore ami .xiannanani
hotels and Georgo C. Boldt of the Wal
dmf.
Ill addition to purchasing tho furni
ture and other hotel equipment from
Hubert .Stafford Mr. Stack has taken n
long lease from Robert W. Goelet, About
KOn.O.iO will be spent on Interior
changeM and Improvenieuts and the
projierty will no operate', as u nrsi ;
rlass hotel under its present manager.,
jir, HlaCK nas nan consiueraiue ex
ncrlenco In tho New York hotel bust
Allies I.IUely to
Permit Austrian
lliixoy lo Pass lllofknilr.
W.xHHISiiToN, Deo. 11. A third com-
.. ,...,, WI1H- hPllf to-dav bv the State1 1 1 or is, lias gone to Kr.inoe. where
K,,; "L?,?t .V sTeut ltrltam Imd rriincel w" "" '"Hilary pilot's llosnso
' ' 1 " Siltmt "l ,,,p " '"latlon lie ear Paris.
t,: a t S " 3, ' f'!!l!hl'' Probably Jol,, his
" " . is 1
'J? . Amb.tswi.loi to tho United
in,...' .i.. ,,. 1
l til Miin.iniiii t-Mtj r nh'i'ii
1.. i. 1
II IM t-fUUIUM Il-Uilllin UIU UtIIIIIMIL-l CII '
,aK,Ef, f .,e envoy as part of the'
' Li ?, f ..,;.., .. J .L. .,: .
' admitted right of diplomatic Intercourse.,
i.n.l relteiates tho opinion that the
'''-" Allies a.e acting beyond their rlgb.a In j
Lll'-C.'iSo''?,., "
nuui ,,, j - - .
out"' The allied embassies here are known ,
caly,to have communicated to their home
r.lay. novernincnts the feeling that any ad-.
antngc to be gained In holding up tlie
...... t ..iti'iguail.lP Iff til III lifil ho Kiim. '
monsurato wnii inn consequent loss in
American sympathy,
It Is understood that these suggestions
have borne fruit abroad, and that even
If tho Allies do not actually recede from
their position In a public note they will
allow tho fact to become known In
formally that the count may come
through the blockade without hindrance.
McADOO TO KEEP HIS POST.
l.nnalnrf and llonalou Also Intend
to Niuy In Cabinet.
WasiiiniitiiN, Dec, 11. Gossip con
cerning probablo changes in the Cabinet
cHino to un end to-day when denials
xvero made from ofllclal sources of ru
mors that Secretaries Lansing, McAdno
and Houston would leave their posts.
Si notary McAdno, who was at his
desk to-day for tho first time since, his
vacation, I. uule. Ills denial tn person.
"I huvo no Intention of resigning," ho
said. Information thut Secretary Lain
Ins and Secretary Houston were tn re
main In the Cabinet after March 4
cm from an authoritative source.
VICTIM BARESlBLGMAr relief work
VILLA'S CRIMES
American Woman Treated
With Contempt When Try
ing to Save Store.
HAD TO HIDE SIX DAYS
Bandit Chief Says He'll Drive
Out Gen. Pershing's
Army.
Los Angeles, Cal.. Dec. 11. Details
of personal appeals to Villa for consid
eration at his hands while he was In
control of Chihuahua city are recited In
a letter iccclvcd to-dny from Mts. Har
nett Dannls. whose husband Is proprietor
of a men-handlec store there. The letter
to her son, Samuel Dannls, a I.os Angeles
ut that Villa was given
1,000,000 pesos nfter he had threatened
to burn Chihuahua city If the silver was
not forthcoming.
xina also made threats, the letter
says, to relieve Americans In .Mexico of
all their property mid valuables. TI10
Dannls store was tooted.
"Three times I went to Villa's head
quarters and asked him personally that
he not disturb at least our household
effects," Mrs. Dannls rrm nt..
1 ,rei,l"11 nte with utter contempt. He said
ervthlng Americans now living In
' ;lexfo possessed would be taken away
!'y tnc Mexicans and that orders had
bc" 8lven to his men that what could
not lie taken should be destroyed.
In Hading- sis. laa.
"We stayed In hiding for six dns.
After looting the city and making away
with about HOC) (inn unrii. ne ..i...
dlse, destroying and burning every build.
. . . .I'"! to foreigners. Villa
..iiii.tiuii.il i.uuu.uuo pesos In sliver of
...v iriMurms unoer inreat of burning
.... ...... i iv irreiveii me monev.
'Chlilimen and Mexicans we're killed
by the scores. Dead are Mrcwn all over
the city."
T. F. Mortensen. who returned yester
.?' .Sff Cl,"iuli"a. had an Interview
with Ilia, the second day of his occu
vmC?' ?' ,,iat Cl,y- Mortensen Niys
" " mil sun. aitnnugh tlie
woni' be received In the Guerrero battle
had Iif.'itff1
"Do you know Pershing?" villa de
manded. "Pershing Is violating the
sacred rights of Mexico, ami Ik,. i
3
out. 1 will show them In n little w hile I
uii inry cannot violate Mexican rights." f
' juu -Know mmon-? I was his
friend. Miked him. but nt Agua Prleta
he turned trnltor to we and the cause
L,?,l"''V'.!"d..!!,'l',r, ,?""-the i
" ....... ..vj.ti.u. is 11 any w'onuer I
Jhat I chase the Americans out of
Mexico?" I
To Ilrlir Out Americans.
Asked what he Intended to do. he ic
piled :
"Drive them out or make them tight.
.and after they are gone I will make :i
and deep that no Americano will ever
ue auie 1.0 steal Mexican land, gold or
oil."
"General," Villa was asked, "how could
you make the daring attack on Col.
Slocum's forces at Columbus and get
away across the big plains?"
"Kasy," Villa answered. "I was
awnke; they were Meeplng and It took
Vo ... i i i '
"lsU. 'l-'i'iaVr,,:' 30T"y ,nC"' i
io you Know ine .Mayor or i;i rnso?"
on. .11) ni.c uiu m ..if country
like a common won woman of the street I
..i.i. f n . ...i.. . . .... . .
and took her diamonds and rings from
her. Tell that fellow that If he were a
man he would come down and fight with
me and not fight with a woman who is
a stranger In his country. I know him :
he Is an advocate for the Sclent Mens. And I
HIlKillto Her. nana. Villa's, brother .lid I
not the North Americans try to murder
him?" I
fllnnivm tsttttitii ttstttt
vanonflM JULiiUiu UdaiidU.
Xlellcnn (IlllelaU Sny Anan.alllllllon
Would llr liiipossllilr.
Nn:vo Lahkiio, Mexico, Deo. 11, Re
ports that Cnrr.inza, Klrst Chief of the
dc faclo Mexican Gov ei unicnt, had been
tihNnsslniitf.il nt Our.. plnrn t,rn .tml.l
) ,itll?i.il quarters here to-night,
u was stated that assassination of
t1(, .-r,t ,.-,ef would bo almost mi lm
possibility, lis he Is surrounded bv .i
large ho.lv guird. The rumors of the
assassination, olllclals said, came from
the t'nlted States.
A. B. THAW TO FIGHT ABROAD.
Youth tn Join x Inter Brother In
I'reiicli l'llnK Corps,
Alexander Bh.lr Thaw, younger brolli.
er of Lieut. William Thaw of the French
I-lying l orps, has gone to ranee, where
Ht ,n'' '"""' Ui" ""r. Mrs.
UeujllmU) Tlllw f ,.tlhllurKi rm
abroad Willi him
Blair Thaw has Just turned is, but he
1 1 -..1
",M,K "r me mail two years.
No ''btalned a civilian avla-
n?" X,". x, ,', " "wi e ,." u
X," IK' V ,' L ..i'.V,,W
p "aJ, ' poS M.,b 11, wlil
. niaohlne ,,ow!;
oru.iier vxiiiiam in con pel ton for the
siOn.OOO aviation safety prize In France.
eoontly he llew from Mlneola I hJ
Valo-Harvnr.1 football game at New
n.-ivr n.
rrienns oi innir -lliavv said last night
. . .... . . . .
that the only reason he had not Joined
his brother In the Hying corps earlier in
tho war was because of his youth.
U. S. PUTS BAN ON HEROIN.
All Physicians In Public Health
Service Forbidden In Kmploy It.
Wasimn.itoN, Deo. H. To aid In
counteracting nn Increasing use of heroin
throughout the country, all physicians of
the Federal Public Health Service have
been ordered not to dispense tho dtug
or ItH sales hereafter for any purpose
and to return Immediately to the head
quart, rs of the service here any quan
tities oi it iney nave on hand
Ill announcing the sten to.rlul.t .ml..
lie health olIlolalH expressed hope thai 1
the example set by ihe service would
have a wide Influence aiming general
piuctltioneiM, It was said loss danger
ous, ngrlllii posew.Cil U pi.Wel fUl Ulrdli'Ml
qualities and that the sooner physicians
rallied this the1 raaler It would he to
curb tho constant Incioaae In the num
ber of hnltual heroin ultra.
ON VERGE
Great Britain About to Withdraw Support 'Because
of Deportations Offices of Commission
Here Expect Orders to Close.
The whole Uelglan relief plan, which
has saved the civilian population from
starvation at a cost of billions, may col
lapse and be abandoned as a result of
Ureat Britain's withdrawal of further
support because of Germany's attitude In
deporting Belgians.
The present dermaii practice, It Is
stated, has now crystallized In such
form that In the opinion of the British
Government It makes It Impossible to ex
tend further cnarity to Belgium without
directly contributing to Germany's mili
tary resources. The funds which Oreat
Britain has been pouring Into Belgium
nrc being taken by the Her nun military
commander for Indirect taxes. It Is al
leged, and the food which Is staving off
starvation Is equipping Belgians for fu
ture service, relieving Germans from
necessary agricultural and Industrial
pursuits In the empire and permitting
them to take their places In the trenches.
It Is explained that the bulk of the
Belgian relief work since the beginning
of the war has been borne by Great
Britain, ami not by the United States,
us popularly believed here. It Is said the
British have provided fifty times as
much money to the relief of Belgium us
Americans.
Officials of the Commission for Belief
In Belgium stationed In New York are
pessimistic over the outlook for con
tinuing the relief work. They expect at
I any moment an order from hcidquar-.
tcrs In London to wind up their affairs.
i. J. Williams, treasurer of the coin
mission, through whose hands more than
ID.OUU.OO.l has passed on Its way to
, feed and clothe hungry Belgians, said
' estetday that he knows only of the re
ports which emanated from London, and
us no imiicihi worn uas come io mm ine
commission Is going ahead with the
U'nrL
"lint t shnnlcl urn l, ,.t .ill vnri.ri...!
If the Germiins keen un fhlr ilpiHirti.
linnM In rflf mi nnl.f In .Inn aol.l
Mr. Williams. "It all depends on the
'SAVE BELGIANS,'!
DUTCH BEG U. S.
1
Holland 8ection of Neutral
League Asks That America
Lodge Protest.
Lonpov, Dec. 11. The Associate
Press has received from Amsterdam an
"appeal to the American people" by the
Holland section of the League of Neutral
States. The appeal Is signed by Presi
dent Nlemcver and Secretaries Dclafaille
and Walcli. It follows:
"The eloquent protests of the Belgian
Government and of the higher clergy
'have aroiialtited ou with the facts.
Bl'"- ' "''' """f r,,Kl"
of 0T. which deals with the
law ot war on i.inn. win iiiiiko n oi.viouh
hlliltlnn of lli'u
""",lon "l "
modern slave dealing I
was not Included was because no dele
gate Imagined It would ever be neces
sary. "Indeed, one must turn to the history
of the early age's of long p.ist centuries
before international law existed to flifil
n parallel to the enslaving of the Bel
gians. Til- Hague irgul.itlons stipulate
that 'the honor and rights of the family
must be lespectcd,' but the German Gov
(rmnent deliberately drags the Belgian
families apait,
"To s this cruelty Is mole vivid every
day. Kvory day numbers of fugitives.,
In etdte of the deadly electric wire which
the Hermann luxe el cole.! along the
frontier, succeed In escaping to the Netli-,
erlaiuls. From Ihcin we leain the pain-1
ful details of the unutterable despair of
the women and ihlldien who are loft be. ,
hind and of the agonizing scenes whlili'
take place when hutl.aii.ls. brothers and j
soiih, drag-led from their homes and
women folk, are nackcil Into cattle nnd
freight earn and thus transported to an
.... known destination and to an unknown
fate.
"To put an end to this lo an est this
hellish scourge, which nt tills moment
laeeinte ll.e whole of northern France
anil western Russia there la but otic
way open, and that Is collective action on
the .art of the neutral nations
..... . ... ....
And for you, eltlzonH of tile mightiest I
of the neutral States, it is in our opinion
.l. ......I n.,,l ....... ... I.....!.-
I.ll" IIKIO l.ll'l .1.1. ... Illl,.- .Ill" H-.llf. - I
snip upon j oi., ... u j on p.ace jour-
...i 1.....1 .. I
nil In ill 111. 111. Ill t.lll 1111 C I. CC Sl C.O.. .. I
our efforts, This t.vranuy is not to be .
borne lit patience and the neutral nations
"
-an no longer
ir (.land Idly by while in 1
western llurope Ihe most primitive laws I
of humanity obseive.l even by uncivi
. ... ...... . .... . ...
lized races me tramp).-! under foot,
SIX MORE" SHIPS ARE SUNK.
London Also Reports StoHiuer Xle-
slnn Overdue Nix llna,
L.inpoN, Deo. II -The British strainer
Stiatlialbyn, of 1,3.11 tons, has been si.nl;
by a mine, Site went dow n In eight min
utes. All on board were saved The
Sltiithnlbyn, whl Ii arrived at Havre
fiom Now York on November "!, was
owned by the Stiatlialbyn Steamship
Company.
Lloyd's announces the torpedoing of
the Greek steamer Grlgorlos Angliel'itos,
of 3,.1.". tons gross, and tho Norwegian
steamers Modum and Falk. The crews
were landed,
The Danish steamer Aora has been
pilncd, set on lire and sunk, Part of her
crew was landed but four of her men
ure missing,
Tho French steamer Saint Plillllppe,
of 3,4 1 0 touts, has been sunk. Two of
the crew were killed while the vessel
was being shelled. The captain and
Mvp n. embers of the crew hnv. -.irrl.'nl
' al Havre, France,
Three members of the crew of the t
British steamer Rrltauula, reported es
terday as.suuk, were killed and the cap
tain of the steamer was mado prisoner.
St. .I..IIN, N. II, Deo. II. The Ful
ness Line "learner Messina, bound here
from London, was six days overdue to
day, Uirul agents said they were un
able to answer' Inquiries regarding the
veiiel'i movement.
OF COLLAPSE
Germans. Only to-day we hud word
from London of ships that have been
charteied up to April 1, so I judge the
commission Is planning to continue, but
the situation undoubtedly Is serious."
The United States Government real
lies that the Kntente Allies have had
every military reason to abandon relief
work in Belgium long before this. In
fact It Is held here to bc an axiom nt
International law that civilians In con
quered territory must be cared for by
the conqueror.
REPLY TO SWISS NOTE.
Germany Saya Mntnal Interests
Are Not Affected.
I.onpon, Dec. 11. Germany's reply to
the Swiss note regarding the deporta
tions In Belgium has been received, ac
cording to Information from Bern. It
It most politely worded, the despatches
say. hut nevertheless makes It ideally
understood that .Switzerland has no
giound fur Interfering with events In
Belgium unless her own Interests ate
affected.
The Overseas News Agency of Berlin
says Information was given to the Swiss
Government legardlng the facts and
legal aspects of the Belgian case, the
Imperial Chancellor stating at the same
time that the Governor-General nt Brus
sels would respect the wishes and Inter
ests of neutrals while carrying out the
deportation meanuie.
REPLY MADE TO U. S.
.Xleiiiornnrium
KspUlm Itra.on.,
.... , ,
lil.-h ArtUHlr.l Deportation..
IIkri.in (via London). Deo. 11. The!
See.etary of Foreign Affairs. Dr. Alfred1?' I'remler Briand announced
Zlmniermanu. to-day handed to the Sec "lat 'lp Intended to give a free hand to
retary of the American Kmbassy. Joseph! ,,K' -Ministers, Cnder Secretaries and
i. . urew. ine iierman reply to me Amer-
lean representations on the Belgian dc-
I tbirf ii t lna
This takrs iho form nf ., r.,n.r, .,.1
. exnlaliiine the flerni.in uttlfiwln j.n.i ft,.
r(.ilMniitt U'hlf.h n.flit.tM.I f'.i-iiui.!' I
removal of civilians from Belgium.
LLOYD GEORGE'S
REGIME SWORN,
. .. .
1 rCIUier l OO III llllll.Selr to (ilt . 1 ."" "l l"e 1 amoer wnen ne Hi-
iiuiiMii iu uuj that Kr).nclimcn 8,lliuld 0 U)11(ter
Seal Of Off ieP From I F'iM '" '",M'f "-' )o'e.lon of Con-1
King.
.(filar tViMr tit !((. lo Tun i
IiM-iv, Deo 11.-The beglimltis
tlin week Minis nil pxclii-moiii .o.in.ni,. ' ' ' """ iJiiring I lie exe lenient "'uirs, mourn in iiiinincr iorm, mc
, ? , .' e"''ent completely Ai, ,.,, Knll.l(.(1 wor wh teiegmms say. Predictions of highly lm-Hiiii'iiii-il
rile entire country acclaims stix.il !.f.,r. i.i., ., , Hortant events before Chrlstmns hi
Llo,l Gcoige as tlie nation's greatest '
) Ing to a seveie chill the new Premier,
remained at home to-day. He was un
utile to so tn Buckingham Palace with
members nf his Cabinet to receive the
i-eals of ottloo from King George. It was
1,im""lnr'"1 to-night that hi- conditio.. I
i'lTVrTwr ""' "
e T. .rrn,,.r rnt ,10 f0ji1witllr ,
was announced nlllolallv to-dav
The King has entrusted me with the
task of forming a government. I have
c.iirie.i oUt the command. 1 had i
hoped to make a statement to the'
House on Tuesd.i). I now lind It to
be Impossible. .... Tuesday Mr. lUinar '
11 w, as leader in the House, will
move adjournment till Tliurs.l iy.
The one predominant tisk bnfore
tho Government Is the xiKoious prose,
ciitlon of tho war to a triumphant con
elusion, fwi confident the Govern
ment can lely on j,M,r sii,K,rt as long
as they devote their energies effec
tively to that end,
Ixl.s the IxIiik'i
1 1 n till .
and the
Al.dtew Bonar Law
lln'- kissed tle hands of the King and
" " Mini-, .
the members of the Cabinet who must
be leelected, unless the House of i..
mons passes a bill making this unncees. I
saty. and the Ministers wlio are mein.;
'.... i """ '. i"r whom seats,
ii.eini.ers or mc j nslry who m, ,. """ai Action iiroiii." has been formed In searoningK nerore Hie first pror ama on i '" ..,. ..
lequlr.d lo seeU'.eeleeil,.,! ,,, "., ,h S"""- nroillf of party nf? li" of the new' Getmaii Ihnplre at Versailles, j01"'5 any weakening of IVrdln...,,! .. de-
tlon of ollioe. and also ,, "xV,, I1"""' Alre.J the group .,' foy ,'. I TNI, Is based apparently upon the King 'j U ; U T'i r0m
are ooopetatlng with the new a.lniinls. T1'" "''Ject of the gtoiui is io make of Bavaria's visit to the Kaiser. 1 " ' 1 W '"""" ,rom
iffOrtS lO He.' Hint liniwrfn.l, ..... .... 'I'll.. sl,.,,.!i t. Mflu.n.in,., l'ni,..i. i.uss.a.
. i 11 ,.'' ",k nK ovrr thelrlto have been the best since the 1B ' '
. . . ... ... . . , ' " though i
. f .. . . ""'"Ml 1
formalities had been compiled'
These members, however, will not hoi
inilt.ll mfnra tl.i I I
r ,,....... . V. . """" o.
1 ominous In-inntTow. and I. Is .iv,,,...... ,
' iimiii ill 1
.., .muliin ,. ... .
,,, ' '" , " '""""I ". as the.
..' .U'0r.' i'". I. '.'"''"'"lenl's
., ,; ' ,, . "i ...oj.i i.eorge
.. .,' " .. ' "ihiioiis an
i. . ah.. ... no uouse or in-.ts. imu i...
postponed until Thursday, when the vote
of credit Is moved.
A strong policy In regard to conirol
of shipping, iuli.es, food and man power !
is looked for.
i
Aaqnltli In llpiiiisltli.il, i
Former Premier AuHl and his fol 1
lowers will oivupy opposition benches to '
the left of the speakers. The Indrpend. I
nlisri. nr..
it vowed peace advocates, ills.
' are -
'ore, log a 1
r... i . .....
to Ihe opposition side, thus
x mime spill In the Labor party In oplu
mil on lit .ll'lll is.si.es,
Tim Nationalists will decide their at
titude at n meeting called for lo.nnif.
on. II IS pro. HI. lie nicy W l.resa II,.,
Irish claims with emphasis, demai.dl .ir I
.........,l..,i.. ... .... .... . ".'.' I
; '' .i i.niii-s in me irisn ...until-1
ira.lou and the re ease o r s e
.ested during the tebelllon. ,rlH,,n"'"
Cot.gtalulatlons are nnanlmons
siraiioi.
ariested
the new Premier's Judicious selection of
coworkers In the Government The out
landing foutute Is the exiraordlnarv
strength In the Cabinet of the Clonls'i
parly, despite the strongest protests
from the Nortliclirfo piess, which every
body iidmltH is it-spoiislble for the over
throw of Asquith.
The opposition Is directed chiefly
against Arthur Balfour, the new Fo .
elgn Secretary, hut even without him
the Cnliinlsts would have been slronidv
predomlnaui In the new Oihlnct and he
war oouncll Itself Out of five members
It Includes U.lee UiiIoiiIsIm, Curxon. Mil
nor and Bonar Law,
All ho cnief offices are held by Union-
CMtlMtwft m Jptnf raft.
FRANCE TO HAVE!
A RULE OF IRON
Composition of New Cabinet
Will Be Announced by
Brinnrl To-day.
Fit AC AS IN THE DEPUTIES
M. Urizon. Socinlist, Is Ex
cluded After Hcflceting
on Russia's Aims.
Paris. Dec. II. The Tempi says the
nefrollatloui connectn with the Intended
changes In the Government probably will
be finished this evening and the person
net of the new modified Cabinet an
nounced to-. rrow.
Premier llrlanj was busy all daySunday
seeing not only politicians tiut prominent
burners men and manufacturers In view
" nn" "ani iacu rcrs in view
of the new combination, to facilitate
which all Minister and Under Score-
command In the nrmy, being an essen-'
tlally administrative question, will not
be cttled until nfter the new Guv em-
n.ent makes Its bow In the Chamber of
Deputies to-morrow nnd Is Indorse! by
a vote t confidence. ' .
Into (he Mrltlnir Pot.
"Ill addition to forming a War Coun
cil of five Ministers on the model nf
mat in England," continues the .Uoffii.
"Premier Briand has decided, in the
Interest of the economic
'e country, to throw, the old admlnls-1
oi.iuiune iiho me melting pot. i
' n t, course 0f conversations he
na" wlt" prominent men on Saturday
",lr"1"'' miming pari 01 tnt new jun -
'""'V The most nbsolutc powers will
! irl'n tit 1 t,i IIiai. ..m.i If I, I-
that tho metlinil n,t ru.i. i .,,.. .i. .,
certain habits ai. nr.U!iil in fin
DoWlTX ll'lll Iia .Hit fi.rflw.- l.....UA.i
.and drastic measures taken, '
The composition of the new-co.nhliia.
tlon w ill clearly show tlm new spirit. I Chancellor von Bethnianu-Ilollweg will
It will be the most complete possible re-. "'' '"0t Important speech as boon
lonstiuctloti. as will be seen when their''" "elchstag assembles,
names are published." I Tn" Chancellor to-night has Invited
'the diplomatic lepresentatlves In Berlin
Tumult In llepatlrs. I of all the neutral Stales. Including Mr.
t,. ,. . . Grew, the American Charge d'Affalres,
There was tumul ill the Chamber of i the absence of Ambassador Gerard, to
identities to-dav dtirlne tho liriiv.imi ,,r . i
j ttie in lltarv approprlatibiw bill wuen the
.-wi,..,,,., it un; i-.erre lirizon snokf.
, ....fcwu rjionr,
At. Be znn wn i oinniit- .... j
.ii ., ., .l. ' '.
"You're a traitor '
was jelled at
M
Ilrlion by numeious
Deptiliin. The measures to he announced In the
various colle.iBties of M. Ilrlztm tiled ' Itelchslau will be taken In complete no
to ctilet him, but without avail. M. ' cold with Austria-Hungary, llulearli
Bouge nnd other Deputies requested the d Tin key In fact, the three others of
of stei.ogr.iphers to take down nothing said ',''' Central Power will take similar
heads of the Deputies In a senil-.-ltHn
-- ...I,, ini.-n i, ;il in,.
Iteiorn tlln mtcrptiiri-'u .IauL ......
Ben.. Itenoiilt. Vice-President f thp
Chamber, win. was presiding, oi.lercd a
susi'iiion or tn.. sitting
M. I trtznii was hooted by the entire
Clnmber us he moved alone' to lilx place
among the SoelalM Fl.,it at the extreme
ieu oi ine i lumper .Must of the Soda:
.. .It XfiVr TiVA' """'"' '' ' v-Jal southern Slav State
! ill u ' . ' ''""""I 111,1 leoon-
u.i ...ivitig outraged tn,. Assembly, he
t.M. Itenoiilt) would consult the Clnimbvi
i concerning an application for his tempo
i rary Iti.lon.
Indus llr Vn Instilled.
M, litlzon. demanding the right to (.
heard on the application of the lute
mounted the .(leaker's t-taiid. Ho de
clared that M, Rouge had graxelv In
sulted him b asking "How much .11.1
ou icoelve frmi Germany to do the
wink to which jou ate applying vour
self" Rrlston. The gallflies vv iVe ole . . ed , a 1
the session again suspended wi
vxiih i.-inne.l twrntv mlniilcs
Rrizoii had left ihe Chainlxi- -
A new- group, slllng Itself
"'Ion and conduct of the war correspond
" "! "i in. one sarcty nn.t the
exertions of the nation for xiotory
'
.Vovrniher lleeelpls.
The stntement of the M . ,
Finance for November shows lb i.
nlng of the war in receipts fiom Indlr,.,.. '
ions, 'i ill'- n.i. ... .e.'e...s IIOIII 111.) root
taxes and monopolies, which totalled '
141. Hill. AAll , . e - n.. ., ...
i..(i',iinn' francs m'oro than for tim" I
... .. . .
llliill I ll ill ii I orill Ii I pfir :im l ir ilria nmt
.......in ... .. noiiiiii. jear anil l..,,U0(l,niiil ,
t ......... ....... , ..... . . ..
.....l-o ." l.ll ,, ,,- SI.lllC 11101)111
last ear. The duly collected upon ,.
polls was 6I.Rrttt.nnti Ratios more thatii,
in .-November, i :(.'., ami t.3,:i(.o,ouo francs 1
mu.e man in a normal vear.
The figures of tho Ministry of Flnumn
show that Ihe upward pin gross of lm
pott duties touched Its maximum In Au
gust ami that lhey pave boon steadily
diminishing sine.
A) ,oli h discussing his statement
In the Chamber of Deputies, said that
the financial situation xvns satisfactory
'" M'" "r cfr"rl ''"'I'osi.l on the
,,0,ln"'-v H'11" "f the l.ecisslty of
,m ,K """" l.nnn.nn.nn' francs
I1 - ' mommy aiuoa.i ex
.i.. i,.... s,...i.;,i ' ... .. . .
M re"e' " "f "- "'"" "f ''
t ci ilaln lliianclal i.greements made'
wnii the rimed stales and Great Hilt
till. What waa wanted now was Hint
the country should Incu-ase its exports
i in i h'.hicc us uuporis and not con
,I,UJ" '" "flrr 'wenly.nlne months
t.f ..... ii . It did li,.f,ut .lm
ll"'"r'" " ''"tract the
Minister said : "It was In Aptll. I l :, ,
'that the French Government on the
., ; .. . . .. "
I,.,. it. ,ii, r i- l i..... ... .......
Ixo.l Mr Morgan I., make all his '. ,-' "J0-"00' "d tho handsome holiday pros
tracts in America. Mr Morgan had I !"' 'Ii,wit n share of the protlts her
done the same for Knulaud and Russia lnTlMI"j n""lu m" "f iUr Increased
and the Cnder Secretary of State for 1 Vi,ili0 . ,1!1'1cr'
Munitions li.nl notbliii- Inn ,.r,.i. r,... ' Tho houso is at 26 Fast Klghtv. third
the result." .street and formerly belonged lo Ihe late'
The debate was adjourned. 1 Co'- Kdward Knox, Just before his,
. death Col. Knox had the house ledeoo.l
oil- P7.'TJV 117 r ri . -. rated and renovif.ed at an approximate!
bAl I WJLl, LLAD.'mH of 30..)0rt n.l on December t Mr,
. Pageiihlechfl' bought It from the halm '
Prliate Advices From Pnrla He-1
elare He Will Siiccreil JofTre.
Wahiiinutom, Deo. II Private ad
vices from Purls received here to-day
telling of the secret proceedings In the
Conflnurd on Second Pant.
RUMANIA MUST PAY
A CRUSHING WAR LEVY
Germans Force Bucharest's
"150,000 Citizens to Oivc(
Up $A00 Each.
Special Cablt DttpatcK to Tin Sex from the
London Timet.
London, Dec. 11. Already the tier
mans have begun to Impose crushing
levies upon the Ttumnnlan towns which
have fallen Into thelr-power.
Craiova, a place of 62,000 people, has
been taxed $10,000,000, which amounts
to 110 for each citizen. Buchnrest,
which had 350,000 Inhabitants, has been
ordered to pay at a rate twice as high
as Craiova, practically $400 for each
citizen.
About half the country has now been
overrun, Including tho most populous
region.
A special despatch from Jassy, the.
Bumanlan capital, tinder Saturday's
date says that the German authorities
have levied a heavy war tax upon Hit
charcM. An edict haa been Issued for-1
bidding the circulation of paper money ,
unless marked In German, for which 30
per cent, of tho value of the notes ls
demanded. A similar contribution of 15 1
, , , , assessed on Craiova.'
historic session of
REICHSTAG TO-DAY
Semi-Official Intimation of
.Momentous Announcement
by Chancellor.
pfOt t'nfr.V Iwtpatch M The Sin from tht
London Timet.
1 Tl J'n ,L7Z TuTZ
' nf tllc ,!frma" 'I'lch-tag lll be the
! "lost remarkable s-lnce the war began, a
1 sitting or Historic Importance to tn
I whole world. Berlin teleKrams reaching
! '
Amsterdam claiming ofllclal sanction so
assert.
I Alt fl. .no...l.a.. ft. II At.1. u I...
eluding those serving at the front, have
I been summoned by telegram to attend
' the day the Chancellor saw the repre-
' sinInllirH r.r Mil tli. .iilivil u u... nt
ri'iiuiut-n in tin me reucrai aiaies or
,i.,. t- i. , :
1 lu' rurin necreiary
, itmimermatm win receive tlie leaders of
au thl. dennan political parties In the
Itclchstag early to-morrow.
IVii tnil Allle In Accord.
- - ..
'",u' "eceiitl from Soll.i
and been
Jilnu.l elsewhere.
The telegrams reaching here assert
thai all suesi.es that any outsider ou!d
make legatdlng what the momentous
measure may be would miss their mark,
It It believed here that this advance
hdvci tiscmcnl foteshadows some new
German move in connection with occu
pied teirilory Humors have been cur-
was to be made of pails of Serbia. jut
as Poland has boon set up, while the ie-, ports ngiee. but without apptcciable, re
maln.ler of Serbia went to Bulgaria. suit. The Russians have now- to strug
The llrrlltirr Taprbtritt asserts ilefl- gle thiough deep snow, and In biting
ntlely that there Is no question of a fnwt, besides encounici It. g n strong Ten
seiatate pe ice with Rumania, as some ton defence, they announce, licrllu sas
papers have stated. the Russian attacks ate strong.
k.i...- xi... rh...., ti.i. While his ai mles .ue still In tout. King
Kaiser .Mn limine Title. Ferdinand Is the cenlte of great lit,,e-t
Another suggestion, Unit the an-I hero. A despatch from Aiiisteiil.ini s.iva
noiincement Is to be made that King
Coustaiillne of llioece has decided to
Join the Central Powers. Is discounted In
despatches.
A most entertaining suggestion Is that
tlie great Reldi.tag meeting Is tn
nothing less than the fact that
,l,r Kl,l'fr 'M change his
title from tierimin Rniperor to Kmperor
of Germany, a dltlnctlon which It wilP'"1 '' . ... .uiiu except rrc
be lemembercl occasioned severe l.e.iit I
conimctitlii.- upon the sudden summon-'
iie.c..ni.ig, sajs nerni.iny can.
' H.l.ltess a terrible warning to the.
rimse'lenees of those who iu-oIoml- ,i,
war. The Socialist organ suggests that j
"' Chancellor will niitiotitice definitely
Germuo's alms in the war. thus ending
the press discussion, Doiil.tlcss, .
newspaper cays, the Chancellor's nn-
.--i..-, ,. ..... o .....
nntmeemcnt will he the "good news"
Iit-.itll t .A.I lu.fnfn I 'lirl.hll!,. lie llm lit...
KarMn Premier. M, Hadoslavoff.
$250,000 PAINTING SOLD.
i
iiiiiIoii Honrs llelllul l.nn.lsonpo Is,
Coming; tn America.
tpmal Cable littimhh to Tar. Six rom lit ,
I. onion Timra j
I.onpon, Deo. II.-- It is rumored in art '
circles that a It.iochauallan scene, a
landscape b Giovanni Bellini, has beet
eold to an American,
.In icccnt years It lias been m posses-,
sr. n of the Duke of Northumberland.
Nothing definite Is known as to the price.
Something like :,n,nnn was offered a
row .vears ago an.) refused,
was one of four celebrated wort,, 1 ....
1-u,,nvl" ,Ml"0,, 1
-- - i
GIVES WIFE $150,000 HOUSE.
Alhrceht Pngeiisleelier, Jr., Hr
xenleil n llojer of Knox House. '
n ' '. V; . HTek7,ri , ' V.
J ' , Is, , .'s "
.! ?,! . ."" h0"sr. the Last Side.
Mis. Albreoht Pagensterher, Jr , will.
,"ien nas cost nor Husband Just .i iout
T,,, of the Inner heiaiuiu known'
when the deed was menrded yesterday.
Mr Paccuslocher Is president and dl-
recior hi un. .vianui.ictui lug Paper Com.
pany. xlce-presldent and director of tho
Central Paper Company, director of the
Garfield National Bank and of -aamral
other concerm.
TEUTONS CHASE
RUMANIANARMY
INTO MOLDAVIA
Cross Jnlomitsa at Heels ofi
Fleeing: Troops, Captur
ing: Thousands.
KING FKKWXAXI)
MEETS CZAlt TO-DAY,
(l,)i Ttnlinvpi: Tllilf (ifilVri
JiU,I,u"1 1t-llu ts vllilq
Questions Arc to Lc
Discussed.
M UJAHS POUJUXG
OVER THE DANUBE
Jfeeiiforceincnts Make Their
Way Into Rumania at
Three Points.
London, Dec. II. numanla's hist
chance to save any of Wnllachla. her
richest province, from tho Teuton In
vaders lias been lost. Hungarian and
fitrtnnn troops cut their way thin
nfternoon across tho lliver Jalotnitsa,
tho last natural barrier before Mol
davia Is reached.
At the same time more Bulgarians
I have, poured across tho Danube.
I cr0"!'Cl' marshe nnd taken tho
western end of tho ,-rcat C'crnuvoda
bridge, nml further tip Mrt-um tho
railhead of Calarasl. A thiid JJulgar
column has crossed from Turtulial
toward Oltcnitsa.
.More Prlstiiifr inkrn,
Agalii Von .Maoken'scn Is slrlkltif at
the flanks of the retreating Itusslan and
n,,,,,.. "
liumaiiiaii army, the saine sun. rr
hlo. ,,,, , ... ,, V
f, " . . i , , V ," "ll,rc"1
!" It' l hKu" h,ukc" mm' 1,1 0r,!,,
iv . ' ''' , ! "va" ,rOK,, 1,1
Great
LIMIa
Wallachla. and thousands mote prisoners
navo i.eeu in Ken.
In the legion when- the Jalnmllsa has
been cro.ned, northeast of llucharext,
near Receami, the liuiii.iiil.ins counter
attacked on Sunday, trying to stop tho
Teuton rush and save the importnnt city
of Buieu. a railroad junction and minor
oil centre, forty miles beyond Plocscl.
At first they had success, destroying two
Miuadron and driving back the Teutons
some miles, a vvlteless message, says.
Berlin announces tn-ulglit that tho "rapid
advance" In Great Wallachla continues.
To-day's Get man st.it.inenl sal. I:
"Our pursuing ntmlt at some places
encountered resistance, which has been
broken."
nu.simi i:rrns rmiip.
P.u-siai, attacks I,, tin, Crpathi.mH
nrc kept up wlili gie.u persist
the Rumanian uiler has crs.i it... I .....
ube to Rcnl, III the Rus-ian . ruvii.ee of
Bessarabia, whole lie s t,, p., .,. the Cr.ar
to-moi rovv. The desp.it. h quotos Ger
man sources, which seen, well Info. mcd
of the progiess of evonis In Rumania,
I The despatch says both monarohs arn
aooomp.inied l.j ' .evrral Ministers."
i thotiah It was leporled .ves-etdaj that
niler RniM.ino had ieslgpe.1. Conjee-
The Germnii statement.
Tn'' Qerninii stalen.ctit issuul iu-ilay
reads:
Ft nnt of Archduke Joseph' Ninth
of Tartar Pass In the woo. led . i
patlil.uis. In Hie Itisttl'r.i sector,
nnrtheist of .liicobeny on Hi.) Mum o
lill, in Ihe livctg.vo inoiinl.tius ii ml nil
both sides of the Trot. is ..llo the
Russians again attacked, iisterd.iv
with slrotig forces, but without any
success.
An advance of Gennau p.itiols ...n h
of Smotioo resulted In the bringing In
of fourteen prisoucis and one mine
tin. iwei
Front of Field .Marshal von M.ei.
onon . niir pursiiliu ..r.nlos at some
places oiKouuloied iesb.tat.oo. vv.iii Ii
lias boon broken tltii innvomen s
desplm a pouring rain and si.aKe.l
ground and th" .o.i.ploti' il.'t .. i.,,,
of hrl.Uos ate pin icimg n intended,
We have made several linn..-.ml ,.,lil.
tlmial (.rlsoncrs.
Turk t'npli.re I, 111.. I vie...
x Tuiklsh nt1U-l.il i'ommitno,i In. . I..
" "l "isiiiiii pie ......
tlilt' of
December . . sa,
North of tile 1
Danube the mmihei if
prisonots made by on.' troops since tint
beginning or the . ngngotn. in beiou.
Buchnrest lias reached abo... i.hii.i
men, among whom air .1.'. nilic.-rs
We have capttiro.l v ...nnon, i-o .n.i.
chine guns, 3 automobiles and l,..ni
ririos,
To-day's Ruisian slatemont rcgiir.llng
tho Rumanian theatre follows:
III the legion of Kli'llbab.i inear t he
noithwestcrn Moldaxlau tiontieri the
enemy, about a company strong, took
Ihe offensive, but was beaten back by
our lire (u bin llelullen
Meet Strong; lleslslni.ee.
Ill the region of the village of Vale
Piltna and In Ihe vnllev of the River
Ttotii" (Moldavian fiontl.ir) the en.
eiuy u.ii rcu .i.o.ioru rosiMaiiee meet-
lnK advance with a violent III
.un. col....... it..i.cs.H, which, iiowose.
wore not successful,
III the mountains nlnnf Hie wln.!u
trout a dici i.iiowft.11 and considerable
frost are greatly hampering opeia
Hons, On Saturday evening the energy
..js.I. ri.t .til,',
