fcw - ( .? &CGfrfgl
'FINANCIAL EDITION
pSTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
MIGHT
EXTRA
icuenxn
V
b
' J.
VOL. III. NO. 77
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 191G
Constant, 1616. t tni Toiia Itmii Commit.
PRICE ONE CENT
V V
ERLIN READY FOR
HOLLWEG TELL
SE
PEACE,
NTENTE
CHANCELLOR ASKS AMERICAN,
SPANISH AND SWISS DIPLOMATS
TO TRANSMIT OFFER TO ALLIES
froposals Called Appropriate for Estab
lishment oi Lasting Calm in
Europe Other Neutral
Powers Informed
tfote Expresses Willingness to Begin Negotiations at Once.
Austria, Turkey and Bulgaria Give Similar Noti
ficationThronged Reichstag Receives News
With Great Solemnity
BASIS FOR EFFECTING WORLD PEACE
t AS NOW PROPOSED BY GERMANY
WASHINGTON, Dec. 12.
VflHE German Embassy nnnouncod today that the following were the main
''J. iuMnta In German v'a ncaco proposals:
flt . - A Tl1 M1 -I T III l A A A filllj Al MM IvneSlAMIjnS TftM vl M
iilut iOJUiiu uuu xjiLaiuuiuu. uu ivkuiu'u ud uiuupuiiuuui, niuuuiiia.
rl."
2;
3.
That Germany rcstoro Belgium and northern Franco.
That the f'nto of' the Bnlknn States be settled in n genernl peace con-
fcrence.
BERLIN, Dec: 12.
Germany is willing to make peace.
Chancellor von Bothmann-Hollwcg today notified the diplomatic envoys of
the United States, Spain and Switzerland that the four nations making up the
I peroun allies Germany, Austria-Hungary, Turkey nnd Bulgaria propose to
titer forthwith into pcaco negotiations, mo uovornmoms in Vienna, uinsinnii
uople and Soda have given similar notification. The willingness of the German
fUies to enter into poaco negotiations immediately has also been transmitted to
he IJoiy Sec, in Rome. Tho special meeting or the Kcichstng tocloy was cniicu
er the purpose of hearing tho Chancellor's peace proposals.
The following was given out through tho semiofficial Overseas News
ncy:
ihThe Chancellor this morning received one after the other the rcprcscnta-
Ptirti pi tho United States of America, of Spain ond of Switzerland. These are
. Ik countries that are. protecting German interests in hosttlo nations, lhe
fkncellor submitted to them a note nnd nsked them to bring it to tho knowl-
Pge pf tho hostile Governments. The note will be read todny in the Reichstag
i j the Chancellor.
! ' "In tho noto tho four allied Powers (Gormnny, Austria-Hungary, Turkey
E' tad Bulgaria) proposo to enter forthwith into peace negotiations. The proposi-
' tioos, which afo brought forward for consideration, nro, acconnng to me nrm
liiefof the allies' Governments (German, Austro-Hungarian, Turkish and Bul
rian) appropriate for tho establishment of a lasting peace. The Governments
" itYtenna, Constantinople and Sofia have transmitted notes of similar text.
"The note has also been communicated to the Holy beo and other neutral
Powers."
(The Holy Seo is the' Roman Catholic government at the Vatican.)
By handing the note to tho representatives of tho United States, Spain nnd
Switzerland, Germany really transmitted it directly to her enemy nntions. Under
exiiting conditions this is the only possible course of diplomatic interchange be
tween the Central Powers and tho Entente allies.
The procedure in transmission of Germnny's pence proposals will bo identical
In the eaies of oil tho neutral Powers whose aid is invoked. Tho diplomatic
representatives of Amorica, Spnin and Switzerland will forward the noto hnnddtl
them by Bethmann-Hollwog to their respective capitals. Tho Foreign Offices, or
elite Departments, of theso neutral nations will then transmit tho text to tho
la American, Spanish and Swiss Ambassadors or Ministers at tho capitals of the
Entente allies. These Ambnssadors will, In turn, formally deliver tho noto to
the Governments of tho Entonto nations.
The eame procedure will be followed in the case of formal replies to tho
Pce propositions. England, for instnnce, will probably give to tho American
Ambassador, the Spanish Ambassador and the Swiss Minister identical notes
entitling their response to Germany's proposals. These will be transmitted to the
capitals of tho United States, Switzerland and Spain, and formally handed to
Germany through tho agency of the American, Swiss and Spanish diplomatic
L representatives at Berlin.
;U S. WILL STUDY PEACE PROPOSAL
BEFORE MAKING MOVE, OFFICIALS SAY
tVASHlvrnwv n- i jr n.minv'i
m propoeals are euch that he merely
- ... tut Liuna aiaiea 10 net na courier
!a transmitting them this Government will
( lew the proposals along- without any com.
- Is"lt f her own.
4 the other hand, If dermany's pro-
-6M&1 fr. .v.. .i. ,.-.. .-.- I. i
- wk tuq uimcu mates ucii,
tWlfWllh other nmilr.il nntlnn hnlCmalt
' 'e'I In their own name on Germany's
i"' " Administration will study the
Pwjwals before taking; action.
f " Bu'ea would not transmit tho pro-
-nar the second plan.
T9' UzU Wr omcla"" revealed at the
fe?f Department inrtiu .... .......
r ftr M hwn dispatches from Berlin
F "35 that Ofrmnnv ,Q,. lUl..i
ijf'lon aa to what.aermany thinks.
Ijui; ,," a lnslng- withheld com--
U only statement for publication
1 THE WEATHER
f rvnjsuAOT
tlai. u ""uuc'PnM ono vicinity Bnow
'ernoon and proeoMj tonight, o
-r -. - i.r irraneeaov; tteodllv falling
. ...... mibHy ivinuJ.
-. i uaaq soman. i:om.
BS-MV4BK BIVKB TDB CHA.N01M
lwS? ftSVtifisMr .ses-
TBMMM4TU8B Ar E.1CH UOUft
I Wi It. fit ir"i.r-.. r
CTT-
HU
was: "I know nothing- about it and havo
nothlnsr to say."
Ha would not Indicate whether the pro
posal cama as a surprise to him, but his
manner Indicated more clearly than words
that tha German news waa probably the
happiest word ha had heard from Berlin
In months.
So far as the dispatches show, Germany's
course, oRlctally pointed out, la unprec
edented. For that reason Secretary I.ana-,
Ins- was unwilling- to commit himself as
to the United States' attitude.
If Germany's offer Invohes merely the
use of the United State as a meosenger,
the State Department will send along her
note a. a matter of course and diplomatic
courtesy.
But a larger question la Involved In case
Germany wanta neutral nations to do the
founding out or to make deflnlte proposals.
ConllnotJ in !' Twi, Column To
Don't Fail to Read
the new serial story
"JSeuond the Great
Oblivion"
by
George Allan England
This U a sequel to and a continuation
"The Vacant World"
and carries the adentures of Allan
Stern and Beatrix Kendrlck Into
even more tense and Interesting
chapters,
A omprehenle synopsis enables
you to ptek up the atory at the tblrd
instalment, whlea appear In this f
lMU.
MUST FIGHT UNTIL PEACE COMES,
KAISER'S WORD TO HIS SOLDIERS
nKRMN, Dec. 12.
EMPEKOR WILLIAM todny sent tho following; proclamation to his troop
in the field:
"Soldiers In agreement with my allies nnd their sovereigns, nnd with
the consciousness of victory, I have made n pence ofTer to the enemy. Whether
It will bo ncccptcd is. still uncertain, nnd until thnt moment you will fljtht on."
GERMANY READY TO GIVE UP ,
CONQUESTS, DIPLOMAT SAYS
Wdlling to Quft France and Belgium Wants Po
lish and Lithuanian Kingdoms and Balkan
Readjustments, Official Asserts
'WASHINGTON, Dee. 12.
Germnny's peace proposals, nccordinR to a German Ktubnssy official, will
include a suggestion thnt the territorinl stntus of tho nntions engaged be
returned "virtually" to what it wits before the wnr started.
The exceptions nre In tho establishing of important Kingdoms of Poland
nnd Lithuania and some readjustment of international boundaries in the Rnllcnns.
On tho latter question, it wns snid, the situation is so-complicated thnt it is
hard nt this time definitely to suggest anything like positive terms thnt will
bo ncccpted by nil bolligerents.
Tho one concrete suggestion mndo is thnt Hulgnrin will probably want tho
return of the territory she lost in the Second llnlknn War nnd it is supposed
Germany guaranteed this when Czar Fcrdinnnd enst his lot with tho Central
Powers.
Tho pence terms, tho informant snid, include the evacuation of occupied
French territory, restoration of the kingdom of Uclgium, nt least a partial
restoration of Serbia and Rumania and the return to Germany of her lost
colonics.
The factors which are snid to have led to the German pence proposnls nt this
time are:
The favorable military position of the Central Powers.
The fnct that tho winter nt hnnd will ncccssitntc cessation of hnrd
fighting for threo months.
A desiro to "smoke out" tho Allies ns to just whnt they nro fight
ing for. (
DeHiro to convince tho world nnd tho German people wherever
they nro thnt Germany is not fighting a war of territorial conquest.
Desire, if tho war continues, to lot tho world know Germany will
not lie responsible for furthor bloodshed.
The pcaco terms outlined, this officinl intimntod, nro not necessarily Ger
many's final proposition.
"Tho important question is to find out whether the Allies will talk pencq,"
snid this officinl. "Germany makes tho proposal In order to find out whether
it may be more reasonable to stop fighting before cither side is ablo to get in
what Lloyd George called in his interviowsomc dnys ngo,n 'knockout, blow'.'"
Although he has no appointment, it is expected Ambassador von DcrnstorfT
will see Secretary Lnnsing shortly nnd thoroughly discuss with him the wholo
matter. It is believed possible von BcrnstorfT may shortly express a desiro for
an audience with President Wilson.
It is not believed Ambnssndor Gcrnrd had nny definite information of Ger
mnny's pence proposals when ho left Berlin. In diplomatic circles, it was said
Germnny's action must havo been pnrtly determined by tho success of the
Rumanian campaign nnd by the Cnbinot crisis in England nnd France,
Tho penco conference, if it comes, will probnbly bo hold cither nt Borne,
Switzerland, or nt The Hague, it wns predicted.
GERMANY, SECURITY WON, CAN HONOR
PEACE DUTY TO WORLD, HOLLWEG SAYS
BERLIN, Dec. 12. Chnnccllor Bcthmnnn-IIollwcg's stntcment to tho
Rcichstng, ns issued by the Press Bureau, in as follows:
"Chnncollor Bethmnnn-Hollweg todny announced in tho Rcichstng thnt
Gormnny, with her nllics, conscious of their responsibility before God, before
tbeir ovn nntions and before humanity, had proposed this morning to tho hostilo
Powers that thoy enter peaco negotiations.
"Virtually all members of Parliament nnswercd nn unexpected summons.
"A crowded houso nnd thronged galleries listened in respectful silence when
the Chnnccllor nroso for his speech, in which ho first outlined tho extraordinary
political situation and then, insisting upon tho achievements of tho Central
Powers, made tho announcement which possibly mny net us tho turning point
in tho war, which for more than two yenrs hns hold tho world under its spell.
"The Chnnccllor said it wns fortunnto thnt tlfo Rcichstng had not been
Contlniird on Pari Tno, Column Vlte
STOCK VALUES CRUMBLE
ON GERMAN PEACE NEWS
Whole LiHt Takes Part in De
cline Rally, Then Fall Again.
Foreign Bonds Strong
German marks and Vienna kronen
strong on peace news. French exchange
and English sterling steady. Anglo
French 5 per cent bonds advanced a
full point to 91. ,
?JKW YORK. Peo. II News ot Oer
many'a jieac proposals hit the stock market
hard today Valuta orumbd as )ulrtra
threw over their stocks, ana loeees by mid
day rang-ed from to mere than i points.
.j i- . -co TiBihlohsni Hle!. tha loos
BIU1 III UHW ww "" ' ' -'
was !6 points In the fine to hours of
trading- This deelln was extended an
other point In the afternoon, maklnir ;T
points for the day nnd U from the high
of yesterday
The irtoeks whleh are known as "war
stocks' were the hardsat hit. and they were
offered down easily beoauso there wr no
supporting; orders under the market to any
,-..,, itenL In This srouu wltb Utblebm
was Oulf States Steel, which sliowad a low
of J9 poinj. iiirvo mikj tvjnjin
sympathetically affected, bat the declines in
those Iseues were not aa great
While stocks were weak the foreign
n.....nmnt bonds buumt stronc Most
of the Interest was attached to thej Atfgla-
French 5 per cent Issue, whicn advanced
a full point above the ctoee of yeterda
to 9 Ths bonds in thj tote tradlsg yes
terday hit a new taw nwrk, eellinx at
szft City of Paris awl United King-
SNOWY MANTLE COVERS
THE CITY WITH CONTENT
Grouches Disappear ns White
Banners Flash Their Signnls
of Cheer
When old I'onca do I.eon fared forth In
search of the fountain of youth he looked
for nt least some histories record It this
way a clear, bubbling spring that gave a
liquid resembling water
Now ever' wise person Knows th.it whnt
he ought to. have done was to have stayed
at heme and prayed for Bnow prayed hard,
burned candles If neceseary.
Know, even the uet, disappearing kind
sueii as did Its best to "mantle" the city
today. Is (he great rejuvenator
And though It discontinued Its efforts
slowly after noon, the genlat Influence ex
erted by the white banners announolng the
near approauh of King Winter was not dis
pelled In the popular mind
There was the Camden grouoh, for In.
stance, a weazened little old man whose
"bronlkal tubes" are directly responsible
for his customary pessimism Qn rainy
mornings when he has to come aeross the
ferry he stands apart glowering darkly like
Napoleon at St. Jleltma, as mad as a man
with "bronlkal tubes" can be en a rainy
mornjngi
nut this morning, because tho moisture
had crystallized Into those little hexagons
which tha dictionary coiiskler it necessary
to tell us arc well-nigh peefeet seen
thrqugh a microscope, tne Camden grouch
rubbed elbows companlonably with hU
kind.
He sailed on them to witnss the beauty
of nature k
"Ljok at Ifeat tfyelty." he exlajj$4
iea.tuuMo' ea l'ie VUUtn, Cftiliuaa T
ftt'gatisucd va Ifsse Two, Colusa Jfyut
QUICK NEWS
U, S. CABINET DISCUSSES PEACE ROLE
l
WASHINOTON. Dec. 12. Tha p.itt the United Stntt will be
cnllcd Upon to piny If pence confcirnces develop fioin the offer of ttn
Heilln Oovertimtnt to enter Into pence ncgotlntiont wns tnktn up nt
the Cabinet meeting. It wns insisted Just befoie tho meeting thnt no
officinl woid of the Oermnn Chnncellor's offer lind been iccclvcd.
Unofficial icportK nro thoroughly credited, It wns snid, nnd the dis
cussion wns bnscd on tlicm.
KEYSTONE PAYS SOME OF BACK DIVIDENDS
Dltcctuia of the Keystone Telephone Coinpnny this afternoon de
clared) a dividend of two per cent on nccount of accumulated divi
dends Oil the pi cf cued stock,
AFRICAN EXCLUSION LOSES IN SENATE
WASHINGTON, Uoi li Th Kennte. by n vote of .17 to 32. (hit nftcrnonn
rejected Senator llrcd'B nmcnilmeht to tho ItimilKinllun bill excluding nil unlives of
Africa. The Went IiiiIIcm ocliilon nmcndinent wns lost, 3G tn SS
ALLIS-CIIALMEUS PAYS SOME HACK DIVIDENDS
Ni:w YOIIK, Dec.
clnrod u dividend of I M
dividends.
til The Allls t'linlmt-rh MnnufnclurtnK Company linn du
ller cent on the picferrcil stock on nccount of accumulated
HHIAND ANNOUNCES NEW CABINET IS COMPLETE
1'AniH. Dee. 12 Tho reorganization of the I'ronch Government linn been effected.
Premier llrland announced today. Tho personnel will ho published In tho olllclnl
Journnl tomorrow. The Premier ndded thnt the ioirj;nnlzed Cnbinot probnbly would
mako Its first appearance In tho Chamber of Deputies tomorrow. Deputy Donnefous
hns Introduced u bill for tho creation of n pnrllnmcntaiy commission of nntlotml
defense.
E. W. IJLISS CO. PAYS 100 PER CENT DIVIDEND
NKW YOHK, Dee. 12 Tho II. W. Hllss Company has dcclnred tho regular quar
terly dividend of 111 per cent and oxtrn dividend nf 100 pnr cent on tho common
slock, pnynblo December 23. IlookH close December 15. leopen December 2G. Tho
tegular iitiiirterly dividend of 2 per cent on tho preferred xtoct: wns also declnrcd,
pnynblo December 23. IlnoKs closo December 10. reopen December 2(1.
ERIE EVENING PAPERS MAKE PRICE TWO CENTS
I'l'IK. Pa., Dec. 12 Hce.uuo of tho mlvnnco In tho cost of print paper nnd other
materials, two nftcrnoon papers hero announced nn Increase In prlco from one to
two rents
$8,000,000-IN GOLD REACHES MINT HERE
J. P. MorKim & Co. shipped 18,000,000 In j-old bullion to tho Phllndclphlii .Mint
today. It arrived by express from Now York. In rcturnfnr tho bullion tho Unltod
Ktntes Government will pay tho Morgan dim nlnoty-flvo per cent of Its value, hold
ing tho remainder to bo paid vvhon the Rold Is weighed nnd irixayed. "Tho gold will
not bo coined now," nnld Adam Jojce, niiicrlntcnilent of the Mint. "Wo havo not
rolncd nny Rnld hero this your nnd do not expect to coin nny for Home tlmo. Thla
shipment will bo stored In bullion form."
2890 STRIKES IN TEN MONTHS THIS YEAR
WASHINGTON. Dec. J2 According to the United Htntcs I'ureau of Ijibor
StntlHtlCD, tho number of striken nnd lockouts during tha llrst ten monthn of 1010
wns 2830. For tho corresponding months of 1915 tho number wns I02d.
16 BELGIANS KILLED IN DEPORTATION RIOTS
A.MSTnitDAM, Dec. 12. Killing of sixteen Helgliins In a riot nt Turcolng, lie
glum, dun to Gormnn doportntlnnn wan reported by tho newHpnpcr I'clio do llclgo
todny. A German soldier, who Htruck n Belgian with tho butt of his gun, was
nttneked by tho crowd nnd tho Gcrmnn troops In chnrgo of the deportations re
sponded with n fusillade. Mnny vvero wounded. Fifty nelglnnx wero nrrcsted.
"HIGH COST OF GOVERNMENT PASSED TO NEXT CONGRESS
WASHINGTON, Dec. 12. Tho problems of the "high cost of government" dur
ing tho noxt fiscal year will be pnssed on by tho present Consro.su to tho next
national legislature, which comes to life on March 4. Mnjorlty Lender Kltchln,
chairman of the House Ways nnd Means' Commltteo, snid today that tho present
session of Congress would mqka no attempt to Incronso tho rovenuos of the Govern
ment, despite the fnct that Secretary of tho Treasury McAiloo estimates that tho
rovenues under the present laws, for the year beginning July 1 next, will be much
less thnn the disbursements of the Government.
LANE FOR SUPREME BENCH, IS REPORT
WASHINGTON, Dec. 12. Associate Justice McKonna, of tho Huprcmo Court
of tho United States, will resign from the bench In I ho near future and Hocretnry of
the Interior I.nno will bo appointed In his place., according to Information obtained
here today. Justtco McKenna has boen contemplating -cslgnlng for soma months,
but delavoil his action, it was sulci, in the expectation of giving his former colleague
on tho bench, former Justice Hughes, tho opportunity to iinme his successor.
PAGE WILL NOT RESIGN AS U. S. ENVOY, FRIENDS SAY
LONDON, Dec. 12. Close frlonds of W. H. I'nge, Unltod States Ambassador
to England, declared today that thero Is no foundation for recent reports that
the envoy will resign.
PRICE OF CRUDE OIL AGAIN ADVANCED
NEW OUI.KANS. Dc- l2- The prlco of Humble, Hour Lake and Jennings's
grades of crude oil has been advanced fifteen cents a barrel, to eighty cents,
REV. J. J. WARD SERIOUSLY ILL
Tho condition of the Itev, 'John J. Ward, pastor of tho Church of the Sacred
Heart, Third and Iteed streets, who has been seriously ill with pneumonia, Is re
ported to be exceedingly grave today. The patient's temperature has risen rapidly
since morning and ho la breathing with Great difficulty. Father Ward Is past
seventy years of age.
REWARD FOR ARREST OF AUTOIST WHO HIT GIRL
A reward of ftOO for Information leading to the arrest of the motorist who
struck Miss Katherlne Drennnn, of Rosement, and then speed away without giving
any aid. has been offered by Captain James I. Donaghy, chief pf police ot Lower
Merlon township. The township oemmlsslonera decided on this action after tho
death of Miss Urennan In tha4Uryn Mawr Hospital yesterday. She waa run
down while walking In Montgomery avenue, Itosemont, on Thursday night
STATE ANNUAL FOREST FIRE LOSS ENORMOUS
Pennsylvania' annual loss from forest fires ranges from 125.000,000 to 50.
000,000, according to George II. Wirt, chief forest fire warden of the State Depart
ment of Forestry. lie Is a delegate at the annual meeting of the Pennsylvania
Forestry Association.
HARRISBURG STARTS $1,000,000 HOTEL SOON
HARR'SBUIU. Dec- . The Penn Harris, the new 11,000.000 hotel to be erected
hero by local capital, wtH be started within three month by the HarTleburi HoteJ
Company, It wl be oonduetod by tho United Hotel Cornpaay, of New Terk, whiidi
operates the largest chain ot hotels is tho country,
Victory in Rumania Called
Prelude to Offensive
Against Russia
PREPARATION COMPLETE
, i3BMsWisisisBr aK.
CARL W. ACKERMAN
By CARL W. ACKERMAN
with Tin: at-miAN aiimy at ntr-
CHAnKST. FIELD MAHSH VON MACK
ENSKN'S IIDADQUAIITEIIH. Deo. 8 (by
courlor to Ilerlln and wireless to the United
Press, Dec 12). Germany's campaign In
Itumunln has only started Every Oerman
soldier Is fitted with snow shoes for the wln
ter campnlgn and nit wagons nro bo de
vised that they cm bo transformed Into
sleds. Kitvored by idenl wenthcr, the force
of Field Marsha, I von Mnckensen and Gen
eral von FnlUcnhnyn have acquired euch
n momentum with tho fall of, Bucharest that
they will surge on further Into Rumania.
Field Mnrnhnl von Mnckensen, by no
ehnreitl'H fall, Is In a' position to swing
tmiHscM of men nnil artillery north, south,
enst nml wcslvvfth clear lines of communi
cation. The complete demoralisation of the ltU
innnlnn forces hail permitted von Mackon
sen'n, troops to ndvanco with Insignificant
losnes
Am General von Klutk once declared In
.in Interview, "One cannot postpone the
opportunity to fight If one expects to win
the, b.ittle," nnd It Is on this theory that
vnn 'M.u.keiiHeu is operating In Ittunnnla.
There Is every Indication that the Rus
sians will have to light for their lives this
wlntor Instend of next spring, as Genera!
Ilrusallon litis declared
For the first tlmo slnco Helglum was
crossed, newspaper correspondents were
permitted to follow the German army with
out restrictions; allowed permission to live
with the troops and to watch bombard
tnenti).
Tim:n to ihjkn villages
Apparently acting under tho influence at
Ilussln, tho retreating Itumunlans attempted
to burn nit cities and villages which they
evacuated, but tho Herman advance was so
swift In many Instances thnt this plan ot
destruction was forestalled. According to
prlBonercd Rumanian.-., Russia's advice to
tho Itumunlan army was to retreat to thft
east nf Ilucharest, burning nil supplies and
all towns, ho as to create a veritable death
zone Just as the Russians did Jn Poland
during the Inst Jllndenburg offensive, when
they destroyed 4000 towns. Ilut the Ru
manians, n a great many Instances, re
fused to make such sacrifices of .their
prnporty,
In Crulovn citizens related how, before
the Ocrmans appeared there, the Rumanian
(lov eminent at Bucharest ordered the
Craiova police to destroy all food supplies,
even those which were the private prop,
crty of the Inhabitants. The cltliens held
a public meeting and sent Mord back to
Ilucharest that upless these orders were
recalled there would be a civil war the
next day Uuotuirent withdrew the order
by telegraph.
In such a movement as that through Ru
mania the fsoldlem sleep In towns every
night, living In stables, houses and schools,
while the officers nre housed, with promi
nent families. While each army carries
sufficient provisions, tho soldiers like little
extras, with the result that all stores do a
big business.
In a "death tone," such n the Russians
advised, the advancing army would be
forced to provide shelter, which Is an enor
mous handicap. Food supplies would Alss
be lacking
, NRW "ARMORKD DEVILS"
Working with the Oerman troops Is a new
military monster It Is an armored auto
mobile which attains a speed of thirty miles
an hour, carries machine guns nnd has a
crew of ono officer and pine men. In the
very action in which this new monster was
used the soldiers rail It "tfre armored
devil" It killed 300 men and wounded ISO.
This waa dlreatly In front of Ilucharest
The car returned safely
Nothing Invented In this war, not even
(be Urlt'sh "tanks," can comparo with the
success of this new engine ot destruction.
In a, small railroad station one night I
met s, first lieutenant who was leader of
the armored oar squadron and returning
to Ilerlln to superintend the building of these
marvels. I learned tha,t the first models of
the present machine were used at Verdua.
during the ojfenaive. then In Alsace, and
also a few times In Russia, Then came ttk
new model in Rumania Its operation 1h
b,een so successful that It has literally ben
"run to death' lately and la now being re
paired after fairy-tale exploits In tba battle
of Turnu Jul. where tha Hermans brolta
tha Rumanian line opening the woy tn
Craiova. It was here that the "4rmor4
devil" ptayed It Hrst bitf role. Speedine
thirty niliM an hour it rushed through te
country and dynamited rUyad bti4f w
that tb U"! UuBiauwu MUreui -
west if Gi-ateva ws riwid.
GERMANY PLANS
WINTER CAMPAIGN
&
V
HBK&3
v,
