i ""n.i nT""y wiu" ' ,- rr-
STRANDED U. S.
PERIL; 232
RESCUED
a
To-Dat Weather SNOW OR RAIN.
'V!
EDITION
EDITION
r"Circujioxi JJoo&s Open to All."
"Circulation nooks Open to All."
PRICE ONE CENT.
Copyright, KM lli hy The Ttn I'ubllililng
Co. (The Stvt York World).
NEW
YORK, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12,
1916. 18 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
SHIP IN
litem
mm
t.
n
10
1
GERMA
TRANSPORT SUMNER ASHORE,
WOMEN AND CHILDREN FIRST
OF 232 SAVED IN LIFEBOATS
Vessel Stranded in Fog on Jersey
Shore Wrecking Tug Rushing to
Her as She Is Being Pounded by
Seas Passengers Coming Here.
The United States transport Sumner, bound from Panama for N.;v,
xYork, is lying broadside, with her head pointed north, on the beach off
Barncgat, with the waves pounding her on the sands. All the passen-;
gers, principally army officers, their wives and children, and 190 enlis ed,
men, 232 in all, were taken from the
Tho coast guard cutters Seneca at.dt
Mohawk aro standing by. tho lattor I
hvinp lines out to her In nn attempt ,
to haul tho transport off tho sand. A j
brisk northwest wind Is blowing, ac-
oompanlcd by anow. and thero Is a
light swell on.
Capt, Webber, commander of thol
Sumner, nnd his crow romaln on
board, and tho hope has been wire
tMted hero to Capt. Dunwoodlo of tho
coast suard that tho vessel will get
off at high tldo. A wrecking tug of
tho Merrltt, Chapman Towing Com
pany Is on tho way to tho scone.
Tho women and children wcro ro
Bioved from tho Sumner early tins
teamor Is lying nt tho edge of tho
oreaKers. nv,K K. -;tJle WniI, Tho w,nrt , colnK t0 ,)B
tog. and tho lifeboats, with the R BaIe To.nlorrow ,t w,
women and children, had to slioot hfi co,(,cr nn(, c,ca,.cr Frol1 filming
throush tho surf. They reached the i (()n o Now (ivcni the Wcathcp
horo and landed their passongera, urpau ruportB a northwester Is
without mishap. wasting Its substance, anil from there
They wero moved to tho Hunsot (0 Itoat0I)( ft northeaster Is tripping
Inn, whero they remained until 4.30 , Mshtly nml tightly,
o'clock this afternoon, and wcro then ( Tnn crarn(? up f tho weather bn-
put on a Now Jersey central train,
whloh should land them in .New iorK
bout 8 o'clock to-nlght.-
Tho enllstod men wcro placed on
board tho const guard cutter Mohawk,
nd word has been received that the
cutter will bring them to Governor's
Island, i
Tho wrecking tug Is expected at
Barnognt Hhoals to-night. At Ust
Hccounts tho westerly wind w.ih ntill
InB tho waves und tho pounding of
the Sumner on tho pnnds had been
lessened.
Seafaring men aro of tho opinion
that If tho trunsport Is not taken off
on tho next high tldo It will go badly
with her nnd that sho may bo n total
loss,
Sho lies about halt u mllo olf slioro
and half n mile, suuth of tho JUrncgat
City Coast fJuaid station. Klio has u
heavy list to starboard, with her In
clined iunncl.s leaning toward the
sea.
At 1 o'clock thla morning tho fol
lowing wireless wiis received from the
Sumner:
"Rain at piecent. Sea smooth, light
ground swell. Wind Unlit, northwest,
thick fog. Ship bexlniilng to pound
as tldo is making up. I lout, from 1 1 to
saving utatlou standing by tu pass
lines to coastguard cuttcis Seneca and
Mohawk."
Tho Sumner had on board troops
(Continued on Tenth P.isc.)
' 13 VMM iuui lumi.
GIVEN IN NOTE
stranded steamer in lifeboats to-dty
ni IMniUn CMfllACTnUJUI
'Ui-IIIUIIlU UI1UIIUIUIIITI)
THEN BRIGHT SUNSHINE
Colder Weather, Accompanied by
a
Gale To-Night, Is
Prediction.
the 1
!
Well, hero's our old friend. Mr. "Call Margaret Saville to tho bar,"
Snow, who sent hln card to u. on , said Justice Goff after ho had din
No v. 15. and said he'd call later, lie's ' missed tho Jury for lunch. Mrs. Sa
hero with bells sleigh bells anil Is vllle, dressed In nn Inexpensive bluck
going to spend the night with us, and I suit nnd furs and a hat that had seen
will beat It in tho morning; probably its best days last summer, camo
going to New Jersey, whoro his family . slowly from tho back of tho room,
will stay for the winter. "Is thero an officer from tho I)hv
Till! Utmn. la n r.i hi I n.l V. .. Tn.l. 4ln 4ftmnv'u rifllnnT1 lllf! PHUT! In.
. , . ..u
west wind, and to-nlglit you want to
,)nr)(f ))p t'))o ;, pu
twecn a nnd 1 o'clock made no dlf-
fercnen In tho foiccast for to-nlglit
nnd to-monow, according to tho
Wenther Ilurcau. Tho barometer was
low and tho tnmpcrntum S'i degrrea
at 3.30 o'clock. It was prcdlctoil It
would probably reach 28 degrees dur
ing tho night.
6. G. BOLDT ESTATE LEFT
TO SON AND DAUGHTER
Will of I .ale Proprietor of the W.tl-dorf-Astoria
Hotel Is Filed for
Probate.
(leorsn I, nlldlt, proprietor of the
Waldorf-Asloria Hotel of New York
and thu HelloviiH Stratford Motel of
I'hiladcl'phi.i, wIki dlcil last wek, left
nil of ills property In equal shares to
his daughler, .Mr. Clovir Holdt Miles,
wfo of Alfred Graham Mllo.s, and his
son, Oeorgn C llnldt Jr.
Tliia hceamu known in. day v. ith tlm
filing of thu will nt thu Surrogate's
office liy Mokhi'S. Ilaldnili fi
lliitc.hlnx, atlorneya.
MlH. Mllrs nnd Mr. Itoldl, by Htr
lernis of tilt' will, aio iilxo immrd as
(.old cxcrutoiH, with full powciH to
In li tlto the arlous pioprrtlrH as they
may sen III, They hid .uiiliorUcd to
act without bond,
Tho will, which wnv dated Junu 15,
l'.'ll, In ,iu cM'iTillngly nhurt docii
mmil, In lrw ol tin- lai-t 1 hit I it dls-
lpo,,t'u ut a," ttulu """'I''-' !!" U't
NY'S PEACE T
E
Arrested in Court by Justice
GolT's Order During Trial
of Corrigan Suit.
TObD BEST LIE I COULD.'
Recalled, Mrs. Saville Declares
She Did Best to Aid Former
Husband.
Kollnwlns nn admission by
Mrs.
Xlnrcarpt Hnwawl.HavllIn that he
lmil .HoW tho ,)CSt 0 he couW tlunU
or to navo her former hmbund from
S M" Justlc" 0oK ,0-(lay wnmitt"!
her to the Tombs for ncr.iury to
await tho action of tho Orand Jury.
Ju1ro UolT halted tho trial of
the $200,001) libel suit brought by
Muslfttrntn Joseph U. CorrlRan against
(leorgo Iliouson llownrd and tho
lloliba-. Merrill Company, publishers of
novelist's first wife to Jail.
Mrs. Savillo did not flinch as she
stood beforo the Justice and listened
for five minutes to his lecture.
, ,,., i-,,,i.. r-n.iirrn tnnrt nt
the woman's side.
"Now, Margaret Saville," began
Just Ice Gon", "fortunately It 1A larely
that perjury Is committed In our
courts, but you have committed fla
grant perjury and havo ndtnltted It.
"I would consider it n blot upon tho
administration of Justlco If' I failed
to pass upon this caso. I thoroforo
commit you to prison to await tho
action of tho Grand Jury, and I tlx
bail nt J2.000. I further direct the
stcnogr.iphor to forward a transcript
of your testimony to tho DlstrlL-t At
torney." Ho handed Dotccthe Cunnlffo a
warrant.
As tho detective and Mrs. Savlllo
itiuted from tho courtroom Kdward
Ahboy, attorney for Howard, rushed
up to Mrs. Savillo ami promised to
have her ball beforo uho wus lu a
coll at tho Tomb.
When court opened Justice Goff
asked Mrs. Saville, who left court
yostcrday to get some p.ipois at her
homo lu Hello Tcrrc, I. 1 to take tho
stand. Hlio produced two letters sho
had found among her imiccIh In tho
home of her former husband's ulster
at No. 101 West KlaJity-siUh Street.
"Why did you swear bust l'rlday,"
nr.kcd thu Justice, "that when you
nnd Mr. Howaid, then your liualiainl,
called upon Vice President CuYtbt of
tho buok publishing houso Mr, Curtis,
answering a ipicstiou of Mr. How
aid's n ho nt tho possibility of a libel
Mill, Hald: 'A libel Mill t by Judge
tUuilgun would only help to veil thu
book nil Iho betterV "
"Ilet'iiut-e," icplled tho wuman, "I
had hem I old by Mr. atevn Mngird,
who lu ought down to Hullo Teiio u
written inewiugo fiom .ludgit Corii
gun, that II' I would imikti hoiim kind
of a htatemciU Jmlgn t'orrigan would
not proHiiUKi Mr. Ilowaid uu u crim
inal cliuigo uf libel,"
iii.Hr.is hri.iiiui:n .iiit. ,ii,h i
. S1!, "'W1'!! '"if. vi ikiiIhii,
HOWARD'S EX-WIF
IS SENT TO TOMBS
AS A PERJURER
MARKET IS WILD
STOCKS AWAY OEF
ON PEACE OFFER
Declines of From 5 to 13
Points in War Securities
Unloading Heavy.
Germany's peace proposals tore the
lining out of the stock market to-day.
Tho greatest shrinking of vnlucn
nIiicc the reopening of tho Slock Kx
clinnge marked n day of the wildest
kind of trading. "War bride" prlcoj
melted away like the snowtiakes In
thu streets undjr the jays of the sun,
and ccry stock on the market par
ticipated In tho glldn toward the cel
lar. Tho total sale of shares for the
day ms 2.160,000.
Tho most prominent speculative
stocks, such as those assoclntcd with
munitions, coppers and other metals,
dropped from 1 to J3 points. The
grentcst declines camo in tho last
hour of trading after tho market had
shown signs of rallying. United
States Steel led tho decline In In
dustrials with a loss of C 5-8 points,
touching 115 3-1 low, as against yes
terday's closing nt 123 3-8.
While the big trading factors In the
street professed to bellcvo and pro
claimed that there was no chance
that tho allies would accept Ger
many's peace terms thu general pub
lic .was panicky. The market opened
weak because of possible cmoplici
tlons with the German Government
over the torpedoing of tho Marina.
Half an hour after th opening came
tho deflnlto news that Germany had
proposed pence, but even then tho big
break held off, although tho market
was poorly supported.
It was not until 2 o'clock In tho
afternoon when an outline of Ger
many's terms came from Washing
ton that the big unloading began,
Tho slumps wero amazing. Kor more
than an hour after tho market closed
tho tickers wero still grinding out
quotations and Stock Kxclmni;.
Iiou.'cji extended tho settling to suit
the swollen market.
In tho final slump Utah dropped he
low 114 and Anaconda to 89 1-). In
dustrial Alcohol declined over II
I (I ii I h front Mouda's high mark nnd
ovon Union P.iclfla had to glvo way
a point. Marino Common went off
neaily 5 points, with a Irgo decline
lu tho preferred,
Cuba Cane Sugar sold below ."i", nnd
Pressed Steel Car after early strength
showed a loss of point. The late
activity was evidently duo to wile o
ders from the We-t. a well ,r tu
sacrifices of stock liuldlnir.s fur nn
benollt of wheat speculators w.ii
wcro obllg' d tu m..ko a quick .cr.i'ii
bl for funds.
' - -
LONDON PRESS COMMENT
ON THE PEACE TERMS
I.O.N I JON, Dec, 12 ((.; P Ml
Tho afternoon ptpiri oni ilni .
only brii f bulb in . giwtu He
li.il' IliftH of the CiTin.i.i f'.i.nii . Ilm ,
niiMoiinei melit Hut ,i f'liinl ofi r
lor peacu liegolialioiih li.nl In en mm le
Kii'pcror William .-. i''ri.itimi,,ii i
111 Hoops IiIho WH' 'il i i i ,hed 'I, i
KCIteril ImjU'l: Bl'lll W.l. Ill, 11 t,i
'man niter wan nut nlv to hung i n
ninliale leallllH, pal lleill.ll ly If.a.ttln
Umpeior's pioiimiiuemetit indlcaii
il was mude mi 'h b.isls thai the
l eiilral puweiH mo IctiirlntiM.
1 "To-il.iy'. pn.iee ploposali nn ii'i'
liki ly In afl-. i 1m- i iiiiihu of til- w.ii. '
tliil.U'n the l.aiirl.in Koing Si r m
th.' 1)1 ul p.lh.inlieil e'liiuiiciit uu (-iti-liiaiO'-.
peace tuuk.'! k
BELGIUM TO BE RESTORED;
FREE POLAND AND LITHUANIA;
GERMANY TO GET BACK COLONIES
Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg
Hands Identical Notes to Envoys
of United States, Spain and Swit
zerland to Be Forwarded to Ene
my Countries.
German Embassy Official Says France
Would Regain
ritory Partial Break-Up of
the Balkans.
BERLIN (via Sayville
posals by the Central Powers that peace negotiations be
entered into forthwith were
representatives of neutral countries which are representing
Germany in belligerent nations.
The Chancellor this morning received, one after the
other, the representatives of the United States of America
and Spain and Switzerland that is, of the states protecting
German interests in hostile foreign countries.
The Chancellor transmitted to them a note and asked
them to bring it to the knowledge of the hostile Govern
ments. The note was read, complete, to-day in the Reich
stag by the Chancellor.
Joseph C. Grew, Secretary of the American Em
bassy, received Germany's note at 11.30 o'clock. He
immediately cabled it to Washington.
TEXT OF Till: NOTK SENT TO THE ALLIES.
Following is the text of the note addressed
by Germany and her allies to the hostile gov
ernments: "The most terrific war ever experienced in history has
been raging for the last two years and a half over a large
part of the world a catastrophe which thousands of years j
of common civilization was unable to prevent and which in
jures the most precious achievements of humanity. Our
j aims are not to shutter nor
1 spile of our consciousness
strength and our readiness to continue the war (which has
been forced upon us) until the bitter end, if necessary, at
the same time, prompted by the desire to avoid further
j bloodshed and make nn end to
allied powers propose to enter
Hjono
Tl.o nnmiKilinnn wliirli
negotiations, and which have
'of the existence, of the honor
! their nations, are, according
printc basis for lhj establishment of a lasting peace.
1 "I lie tuur allied puwcu lute been obliged lo take up aims tu deteud
TO
Conquered Ter
Wireless), Dec. 12. Pro-
made in notes handed to-day to
annihilate our adversaries. In
of our military and economic
the atrocities of war, the four
forthwith into peace negotia -
tl,r.v l.rmc (nrwnrA Cnr c!i
for their object a guarantee
and liberty of evolution for
to their firm belief, nn appro-
LliifiO
ALLIES
Emperor Tells Army and Navy
of His -Offer to Brihg About Peace
LONDON, Dec. 12. Emperor William has ad
dressed tho following to tho Oorraan army:
"Soldiers: In usrrcement with ttie soTerelgni
of 1117 nllles nml with tlio consciousness of tIc
tor), I liuro innilo nn offer of peace to tho cni-my.
Wlietlier It will he accepted tu still uncertain.
"L'ntll Hint moment nrrln-s jon will fight on."
Kmpcror WMIIam's order to his commanding
Generals was addressed nlso to "mj utixj, which In
Hie rnininon fight lias loyally and effectlrely staked
ull Its strength."
illilk'ii nnd tlifl lilvrlv nf nnlinnnl
armics iavc ; no u..,y .,(erej t,e,'r
fi,rm lvlief 0llr own riKnts and
rigms 01 uiese nations.
"The spiritual and material progress which were the pride of Europe
1 nt the beginning of the twentieth century arc threatened with ruin. Ger
many and her allies Aulria-llungary, Bulgaria and Turkey gave proof
of their unconquerable strength in this struggle. They gained gigantic
advantages over adversaries superior in number and war material. Our
lines stand unshaken against ever repeated attempts made by enemies.
"The last attack in the Balkans has been rapidly and victoriously
overcome. The most recent events have demonstrated that further con
tinuance of the war will not result in breaking the resistance of our
forces, and the whole situation with regard to our troops justifies our
expectation of further successes,
"If our enemies decline to make peace now, wishing to take upon
themselves the world's heavy burden and all the terrors which will here,
after follow, even in the least and smallest homes, every German heart
will burn .with sacred wrath against these enemies who arc unwilling to
stop human slaughter in order that their plans of conquest and annihila
tion may continue. ,
"In this fateful hour we took a fateful decision God will be, the
judge. We proceed on our way without fear and unashamed, ready tor
fighting and ready for peace.
OUTLINE OF PEACE TERMS
BY THE GERMAN EMBASSY
WASHINGTON, Dec. 12. Germany's peace proposals, according
to a German l-mbassy official, will include a suggestion that the territorial
status of the nations engaged be returned "practically" to what it was
before the war staited.
The exceptions are establishment of independent kingdoms of Poland
and I ithtiania and some readjustment of international boundaries i.i the
UalkaiK
I he tine concrete suggestion
1 want Hie return of the leiritory she
is supposed Germany guaranteed
VlW lUC Q'lltl.ll I'OWCrS.
I he peace terms, the h'mb.issy official said, include the evacuation of
nonlit'iii l-rance, lestoiation uf the kingdom of Belgium, at least a pariial
loioi.itiou ol Seibia and Koimiania, and the return to Germany of her
v colonics.
The peace terms outlined, the German official intimated, are not
I ueccuarily Germany's' final proposition.
pinliiliriti Tlic irlnnniic H(ifle nt nnr
purpose. We always maintained the
justified claims in no way control the
nude is that Bulgaria will p.obably
lost in the second Balkan war and it
this when Lzar J-erdinand cast his lot
i
4
.,5
