"
O
Farmer
I.-
5
r -
V03L 52N0; 293
BERLIN, DEC. 12 VIA WIRELESS TO SAYVILLE, L. L GERMANY AND HER ALLIES TODAY PROPOSED TO ENTER FORTHWITH INTO PEACE
NEGOTIATIONS. THE PROPOSITIONS WHICH THEY WILL BRING FORWARD, ACCORDING TO CHANCELLOR VON BETHM ANN-HOLLWEG; ARE APPRO
PRIATE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT .OF A LASTING PEACE. . ' , s v ' r',yT.; -,: .y ; ; ; , '
THE AUSTRIAN, TURKISH AND BULGARIAN GoWrNMENTS ARE MAIONG SmmAll PROPOSALS. THESE PROPOSALS HAVE BEEN TRANSMIT
TED ALSO TO THE VATICAN. , V : --.4. : .; - V' - - 'v; ; : ;-:-y- ;
CHANCELLOR VON BETHMANN-HOLLWEG THIS MORNING RECEIVEDTHE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE NATIONS PROTECTING GERMAN IN
TERESTS IN HOSTDE FOREIGN COUNTRniS. THE CHANCELLOR TRANSMITTED A NOTE TO THEM AND ASKED THEM TO BRING IT TO THE KNOWL
EDGE OF THE HOSTILE GOVERNMENTS. ' ' -.; . . " - . r,' ; -.K
I IB WORT :
i: Sj StlALS.
? United State3 Anoy Troop
, slupSuimier,Retoniiigto
IToy 'York x From Canal
Zone,; Euns Aground Off
r Coast of Heir Jersey.
All , 7pxnen rand Children
! rirrpved to Chbre-i-PcLZccsjgcrs
jsn vessel
ITuznbcr 233 Besides Crew
. Cutters to Bescue. r -: J
New York, Dec. 12 The
women and children among
'the 233 passengers on the
: United States -army, transport
Sumner, aground : on the New
vJeriiejr coast off Barnegat, have
all been ftafceh off in lifehoats
and put ashore, according t to- a
message received here today
f rom ' Captain . Wehber qf the
transport. ' X i : A-J-V ;.'
. The coastguard critter Mohawk has
arrived' at fhe STimner8 posltios the
first of the rescuing vessels to reach
r Arraiiffeineiita have -been made hy
, CoL John M, Carson, depot qnaxter
. roaster forjthe army transport service
- here to bring .their passengers to. this
city during the1 day. x :
, ' The Sunnier Bes apparently not in a J
dangerous ' position. The weather was
foggy but the roxmd sweU was only
light and moderate. The vessel,
which was proceeding from the Canal
' Zone .for.fjfew. "STork, struck, late' last
night rand sent out wireless calls -for
help.';: Two coastguard cutters under
forced, draft were rushed to the relief
of - the- transport. V The Seneca, which
. was off the eastern end , of Xong Is
land, when directed to go to the aid
of the : Sumner, reported that she
would probably reach Barnegat about
noon today. At 2:80 this morning the
. Mohawk, which 'was at anchor,- off
Staten Island, left for the- scene.) ;
v'' The Sumner, ' which ' Vleft '.Colon
lec. 4, was previously reported ' at
ndbn Sunday as being 4 0f miles south
of Sandy Hook. The next' heard of
the vessel was the wireless call last
night stating that she " had, gone
.ashore during a- heavy ; fog. The
. transport's normal complement is 11,
officers and a crew , of 118, but she
'has been carrying many soldiers sta
tioned at Panama to and from the
'. Isthmus,
.The despatch reads: " . ;
"Rain ; at - present. Sea . . smooth,
light ground swell, wind light, north
; west; fog. Ship beginning to pound
as tide Is making up. 1 Boat from life
saving station trying to pass lines to
coastguard cutters JSeneca and Mo
hawk. ; v v: -i ! I ;
' A wireless message from Captain
Webber to CoL John' M. , Carson depot
quartermaster here for the . .rnjy
transport service, said the women "and!
children passengers on ; the transport
.' ' Snnuftr were being landed about nine
- o'clock at Barnegat by means of life
1 boats. v " ; ' ; ' ; '' ' -'
. The mesasge added that the Sumner
was in wireless communication with
the coast guard cutters. CoL Carson;
early today sent a heavy wrecking tug
from a New York shipyard-to ' assist
, the cuttere In' their attempt to . float
the Sumner, which, according to Cap'M
tain Webber's mesage,- was resting
easily in the" sand, the wind having
subsided ' and the sea ' becoming
smoother.
Cable advices from Colon sent 'when
' the Sumner left that port were that
jshe had as passengers 17 first cabin,
25 second jsabin and ISO third class.
''Many -Of 'lie cabin passengers are pre
sumed tor 1-e officers and their families
coming -north for the. Christmas hoi-.
1 days and the third class list of trans
port ships Is usually made up to a
considerable part of discharged soli
.idlers from Canal Zone stations. '
; : -'- - l '
HALL DAY
LEFT
MASSACHUSETTS
CITY IN HURRY
Got Into Difficulties Over
Some Mortgage I'rans-
actions There.
OTOBED PtntNITURE
ATTACHED IN SUITS
Central Lumber Co: of New
jBedfoingiiy
William A. HallldayAreal estate pro
moter; : who , is; -being guarded night;
and day . by detectives stationed 'at; his
cot , in St., Vincent's hospital, , fled the
city of New Bedford, after lj'e had' ob
tained $34,300. through alleged misrep
resentation, from the Philanthropic
Burial society; of Fall . Klver, which
took as - 'security first,; second and
third mortgages. .T -r "
. A hearing of the present charge!
against Halliday, that of. assault with
Intent to kill" his partner, Francis Bo
mero, will be" held Jan. 13, and bonds
were placed at $2,000 by Judge Frank"
Wilder,, this mornfng in 'the city court.
- Halliday, after disappearing from
New Bedford, came directly to this
Cty, and in his business dealing here
the police; assert .pursued "the same
frenzied schemes to. get rich quick. In
a New ' Bedford newspaper ' da$ed July
20, . W15, a picture of Halliday ap-
t ' (Continued ; on Page Sj.)
STAGG RECEIVES
CASH FOR LAMP
LOCATIONS MAP
Appears to Have Ignored
Ordinance Forbidding
v Such Practices.
When it Is specifically fdrbid'Uen, by
ordinance that members of the board
of i aldermen receive any compensa-
tiqn for their services or participate
in , any. city contracts, how is it that
Joseph H. . Stagg, chairman of the
lamps committee of the. common coun
cil,' was paid $92.50 for producing a
'map. of the lights of ' the .city of
Bridgeport? ' i ' ' , ;
Democratic members of the council
will ask-for an -answer to this ques
tion at the council meeting next Mon
day night.' , -A huge map' of city of
Bridgeport, 'in a ''heaVy oak frame,
covered with . glass and with a lock
on the side,', has been hung in the
inner office of the city clerk. ?A ,
The' location : of each of the '834
tungsten lights 'is indicated by a green
pin and the location of each of 869
arc lights by a red pin. ' Besides' the
big map Is another map On which
the lights of the White Way are mark
ed .with white pins., '.When the pro
posed extensibn of the White' Way
lights is made from Broad street' to
Courtland street there will be 154 of
the" big lights. ' ,; r
-. Both maps, it is thought, were' mad
by J. ; Henry-Stagg, li West avenue,
son of the alderman. The alderman
presented the bill in his own name, it
was endorsed.. by the -lamps- committee
of which he is chairman, reparted fa
vorably at the last meeting of the old
council and ordered paid. -
The check was drawn in the alder
man's own name. ' Some time ago
when Alderman Stagg had a map of
the White Way lamps made by his'
son - it , was charged then that , there
was some Irregularity in the manner
in which the map war ordered but the
council, finally pajd the bill. A res
olution from the Democratic aldermen
calling for an investigation of this
bill presented before they- were mem
bers of the board, will be forthcoming
at tha next council meettoar.
t, , ... :. , . . . . .... . o ; .,. '; .
DENIES GIRL IS
HELD PRISONER,
DESPITE CHARGE
East End Woman Says She
,is ianeiiering zeia eprung
With Her Consent.
MOTHER APPEALS TO
BRITISH CONSULATE
Court Case Continued Until
Tomorrow ;Moming at
s
uest
.The struggle .for possession of Zela
Sprung- the 15-year-old . . ;New York
runaway, nas regorvea lts&il- into a
waiting game. The police, acting In
behalf of the ' girl's parents, t are zeal
ously watching fOr an,, opportunity X to
lay hands on her: Meanwhile the girl
safely ensconced in the home iof Mrs.
G. W. Bioffmaster, refuses ,to venture
forth on the streets pf. the. city, to give
the police an opportunity to. seize her.
Today tne. girl's mother; will appear
before the British consjil in'KewlYork
city? the' parents being English, sub
jects and the girl of English birth, to
enlist the services of Great Britain's
representative In regaining possession
of her daughter. ' The British consul
caused the - arrest of Fred Reucco,
by r the ', New -Xork police . on, serious
charges,, Including abduction and his
return from this city 'New Y ork ' f dr
trial.. - ' yr
Following their plans .drawn when
Reucco was', arrested,' to prevent the
young bride going baekr to New York
to testify ' against' ' Reucco, Attorney
Geduldig, when the girl's i case was
called for' trial in' "the" , city 1 court to'i
day, on., charges of breach of.', the
peace, had it continued' until tbmor-'
row, morning. - She" is at ''liberty in
bonds of $500, furnished by Mrs. Iloff
master and' has not appeared in cour
since her arrest. She was absent this
morning. - r : , . ' ,
.The allegation of the girl's mother.
Mrs. Harry Sprung, of 2170 Hughes
avenue, ; Brohz, New York, that rs.
Hoffmaster was holding the girl a vir4
tual prisoner, was not substantiated
when a' Farmer reporter called' at the
house yesterday afternoon. . The girl
herself stated that Mrs.'! Hoffmaster,
who is well known in this, city, and
is' known as a philanthropic and char
itable woman, was keeping her solei,
out of generosity ' and pity for .her
predicament.- x : . , . .
While' talking with a Farmer re
porter she placed her arm affection
ately around Mrs. Hoffmaster's neck,
and said the woman had been . more
than "a mother to her, and stoutly ."de
nled any limitations have been; placed
on her liberty. The -publicity of the,
affair has nearly prostrated Mrs. Hoff
master. . .V '''' ' ..' i ' ;;;
Mrs. Hoffmaster stated ? yesterday
that the reason a 1'George D. Rucker"
complained . to Lieut. . E. O. . Cronan
that v'a -Mrs' Matilda Morad and 'her
daughter Rose, were being hsld at the
house against their will, was that Mrs.
Hoffmaster had foiled a plan of Ruck
er's to marry the daughter. . , ,
He is ' married, with six children,
according to' Mrs. Hoffmaster. '.The
Morad woman is a sister-in-law, of
Mrs. Hoffmaster and she and her chil
dren have been sheltered by her since
Rucker's unwelcome attentions to the
girl were "ended," in Philadelphia.
Mrs. Hoffmaster brought the Tvoman
and her daughter and two other small
children, whom" she is now-educating,
f roin Philadelphia. The girl told a
Farmer representative ' that she was
not kidnapped by- "Reucco, but. left
home of her own free will, and she
srtated she will not go back to Eng
land. ,
HEAITH BOARD TO MEET.
A meeting of the health board will
be held this evening at which the
-----.-t of the board will be talked
over. '
THE WEATHER
Unsettled, probably rain or snow
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., TUESDAY, DEC. 12, 1916
Agency: ' , ; " v ' ' -: ; ; ; -: . " ; .:; ; - :'. . ;
; :. "The dtancejlbr received one after another; the representatives of the United States of?
America and Spain and Switzerland that is, of the states protecting German interests in hostile
foreign countriies "The chancellor transmitted to; them a -note and 1 asked them to bririg it to the;
knowledge of the hostile governments. The note ! will be read today in the Reichstag: by the chan
cellor. '. , V -.';' r:)0 :::vVV:vi..VT': ; - ' '; '-
"In the note the four allied (central) powers propose to enfei forthTOth on peslce negotia-r
tions. f The propositions Which they bring for such negotiations, are
appropriate f or the establishment of a lasting peace. .r ; ! 1 j : j V
'The government at Vienna, Constantinople and Sofia, transmitted identical notes and a)
communicatewith the Holy See and all other rieutfal powers." '; : -'c-S.
11 11 II I'.l I I II 1 II II II I I I I -f I II I ! . f
I 1 I I I I I I I 9 -"111(11 1 f . I I t I I I LJ J
l.m lr r-fj U n m Vn VM I I V, I I MM n ,.
Washington; Dec. 12 -Advices from. Berlin to theGerman
embassy indicate that Germany's peace terms, in general' meas
ure, vpropose the restoration of the. status quo before' the war
with the exception of the establishment of independent king
doms of Poland and Lithuania.
They are understood to propose the complete restoration of
the occupied portions of Belgium and France in return for Ger
many's captured colonies and to dispose.of the Balkan situation
because of its extremely complicated nature, in the peace con-f
ferehce. - ; ' ' .
Despatches to the German embassy,
telling of the chancellor's action in
calling ' in the neutral' diplomats and
trantsmitting the peace proposals of
the central powers,' arrived soon after
the news despatches. ' The terms for
the' restoration of , Belgium and porr
tions of France gave no indication, so
far as 'known, of stipulations such as
generally have been expected by the
allies, , although they did not -absolutely
dispose of their possibility.
It was indicated that while the Ger
man allies might, not entirely predict
PRESIDENT SILENT
OVERTURES: U
GERMAN PROPOSALS AT ONCE
Washington, Dec. 12 News that
Germany and her allies were about to
enter,' upon - peace :- negotiations, was
sent to the President. Speaking for
the. President, Secretary Tumulty
said he was deeply interested but
could make no comment, at least un
til it was learned what reception the
proposals received from the entente
allies.. . ;. - .
The state department received its
first intimation of Germany's pro
posal through The Associated Press
despatches from which officials -as
sumed that the offices of the neutrals
addressed are asked only to transmit
the proposals. This will be done so
far as the United States is concerned,
promptly on receipt of the official
despatches in "Washington. They will
be forwarded to all the entente coun
tries where theTriited States repre
sents the central power diplomatic
ally. f , . ...
Whether, the United States would
accompany the transmission with7 any
comment or suggestion, it was indi
cated, depends entirely upon the na
ture of the proposal and whether ,it
is considered . likely of consideration.
If the offer is deemed one on which
all sides might negotiate, the United
States 'probably would urge that it be
taken up. .'
In transmitting the proposals, it was
officially stated, the United States' prob
ably would follow the practice which
has been invariable so far fa action
as the medium of communleatfon be
tween the hostile governments an
- XI I I I 1 I lllllllfll -1 111
that, the proposals would actually
cause a. peace conference, they were
not without" hope , that' they . Would.
They were hopeful at least that they
would be the means of getting the
belligerents together in some manner
to discuss the situation, and this, it
was expected, would1 lead 'to" a' -basis
for peace. : ' ' , , .- !"' '.
In German quarters the crisis In
the British cabinet, the coming of
winter and the lull in the fighting are
given as reasons for making1 the peace
proposals, at this time. ..' ,
ON PEACE
S. TO
would not make them public. The
terms would, of course, be known tp
President Wilson, and Secretary Lan
sing,who would examine thenr to 'de
termine whether they should be ac
companied by any word from the
United States. . ' . '
- The news was virtually the . only
topic of ' discussion among the mem
bers of Congress as they assembled
. pui. ..8 ""T '
ernoon at the White House and there
was no doubt it would be discusser
there. - "
The foreign embassies and legations
received their first information of the
event through Associated Press (des
patches. ,On every hand the discussion turn
ed to what had moved Germany and
her allies to make their proposals at
this time. Although for many weeks
there . have been persistent and officially
denied reports that some peace 'pro
posal was about to be made by Presi
dent 'Wilson, . there was no open indi
cation that the central powers them-
cV-nnXn Qt'thn IXT-Hito Unnoo anJ tliAi-a '
selves were about to make one. Gen-Va
erally, the announcement was a dis
tinct surprise through official and. dip
lomatic circles. f
One prevailing opinion was that the
Germanic allies had brought out their
peace offer at this time with the ex
pectation of making terms . which
might be acceptable to allies of Eng
land and in effect might possibly cause
the British government to yield to the
- (Continued on Pace
TRANSMIT
British Foreign Office Silent.1 .:-U;V:
' Londoin, Dec. 12-f-The. foreign office today,.- informed ; ;
The Associated Press that it is unable, to discuss the Qer- '
toheae otfer xintn
whilefth attitude of the Brit
Mifeledeo fuentieniuwiaied
foier premier and foreign secretary,:.' . ':i0 f C '
-.."'.'.'' '-' ; , , .... , . 1 " . ' ' ' ': ; , i- V ; y .-
!'-'v:V011o!'os the Reichstag v
London, Dec. -12 wireless despatch from Berlin", says that
in his speech before the Reichstag today, Chancellor Von Beth-inann-Hollweg
announced that Germany, together th'rHer, al
lies, "conscious of their responsibility before God, before their
own "nation and before Humanity, have' proposed Jto 'the; Hbi
tile .powers. to enter, into peace negotiations. r, . .s
Kaiser blends Word to His Troops : -
"A. Central News despatch from' Amsteriiam says is arM
nouhced Officially' in Berlin that Emperor William has noticed
his Commanding generals of Germkny's peace .'of fer) atfd has iri-'
formed them it. is still uncertain whether Jhe iofferwill .he .ac-. .
cepted. Until that uncertainty 'is ended,
are to fight on. v ' ' " J . : ;. : f f : 1 - .r ;
The message is quoted as follows: "Spyiers: Ih, agree-j
ment with the sovereigns, oi my anies ana wim iue:wuawvu3:
ness of victory, I have made an 'offer of peaCe- to',; te-: enemy
Whether it will' he accepted is still uncertain. Until jthat -moi
mehtarHves you willyfight on;
Berlin; Dec. ' :1 2 Chancellor Von
Bethmann-Hbllweg's'. speech . is:, re
ported by the Overseas News Agency
as follows: ; ' '
c-ha rice'llor Von Bethmann-nou.
weg today announced to the-' Reich
stag, that Germany; together with her
allies,i "conscious of - their responsi
bility before Gott, ; before tneir own
nations,' before; ijumanity, nau
posed this morning to ; tne nosuie
powers to enter on peace : negotia
tions.,. v -, K ' ..'- .':' '
Virtually all of, the members 01
parliament answere. tne unxpecieu
summops. . Tne crowaea iwu aim
galleries listened in attentive silence
when the chancellor -rose
lor . ma
SpeeCn. vf -. f ; v ' .. - . .
The chancellor first outunea tne. ex-
traordinary, political situation , ana
then, insisting upon the achievements
of the . central" powers, made an an
nouncement . which possibly;, may be
the turning point in the war,; which
for more than' two years -has held the
world under its spell. The chan
cellor said: ' - -'-
"The Reichstag' had hot been ad
journed for' a long period but; for
tunately it was left to 'the -discretion
of . the President 'as to the :day of the
next 'meeting.' rThls decision was
caused by the hope that soon happy
events in the field would be recorded,
hope fulfilled. quicker, almost,' than
expected . I. sail be brief, for actions
speak for, themselves.".
The chancellor said Rumania had
entered .. the .war in order ' to roll up
the, German, positions In the east and
those , of Germany's . allies. At the
same ' time 'the grand offensive ; on ( the
Somme had as its object to pierce the
German' western ' front, and " the re
newed . Italian, attacks ..were ' intended
to paralyze Austria-Hungary.
. "The situation was aerloua,' th
. . ! i ! '! . -r.'f. .:' r.
rail
ll '
TELLS
PRICE TWO CENTS
n 4 - i .... ii x, .'i . j 1
. . t '. . . -
chancellor continued. "But with God's
help our troops shaped condition ; aor
as to give . us . security which not - only:
is complete, but more so than ever be-
fore.' The western -front stands:- Not
.only does it stand, but ,in spite of the
Rumanian campaign', it is filled out
with larger, reserves ' of ' men- and maJ
terial than if had been formerly.' Most
effective precautions had '- been taken;
against all. 'Itaiian :. divisions. ; Andi
while on . the Somme and on the Carso
the, drum-fire resounded while the
Russians launched troops against, the
eastern, frontier of Transylvania, -Field! '
Ma rshal Von Hindenburg captured the
whole . of western Wallachia ' and the
hostile f capital ' of JBucharest, ' leadlnsf
with unparalleled genius the troop,
that In !coKperati6n with all the allies
made possible what to u was' seem-4 .
ingly impossible.1 ; . : ' '. 5'
"And Von Hindenburg does not rest '
Military, operations progressed- By ':.
strokes of the sword at the fiame" time,
firm ; f buridadtloris ,for our; economio
needs have been laid. Great stocks of: v.
grain, victuals, oil and other1 goods fell; j
into our hands in Rumania. : Their
transport has begun. In apite of. scaN
city,' we could have lived on; our own,;,
supplies, 'bur now our safety ( is 'beyondf
question." - - - :- - 7) L
. "To. these great events on land. '
the . chancellor : continues, : ; "Heroic.,
deeds of equal Importance are added
by our submarines. ' The Bpectre of .
famine, which our enemies. Intended
to appear before us, now pursues them, 1
without .. mercy.,-,,' When, ..after , the
termination of the first . year, of ihm
war, .the Emperor addressed, the na
tion in a. public appeal he said; -' ' '
" 'Having;, witnessed such . , great
events my heart "was filled . with : prid
and determination.' . , .
-"Neither-our Jmperor nor our na
Uon ever changed their mind in thlsj
' (CoaitiiMMd : oa FtRfift 7
i
