III METAL PRICES ffiXst i AA fiLf wWh'W'tX'' ' I 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I I
I II (T p l in yPTI S)rlXlI3lli -JMiiMiL I
If NewEoTkrRe?.T2l"Sir?'76c; lJi f WW WW V WEATHER Utah: Fair Tonight
m ' lead, $7.908.Q0; spelter, $11.75 ' m and Wednesday Except Snow Tonight
K ! 12.00; copper, $35.50, $34.0032.50. " V J V m Nortn entral Portion; Not Much
' Sr -" Change in Temperature.
1 FEARLESS. INDEPENDENT. ' PROGRE SSIVE NEWSPAPER. : H
1 Fortyslxth Year-No. 307. Price-Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 12, 1916. Entered, as Second-Class Matter at the Postofflce. Ogden, Utah H
J Germany and Her Allies Make an I
I Offer of Peace to Hostile Nations I
! London, Dec. 12, 4:36 p. in A Central News despatch from Amsterdam says it is announced officially in Berlin that Emperor William has notified his command- I
I frig generals of Germany's peace offer and has informed them it is still uncertain whether the offer will be accepted. Until that uncertainty is ended, the message says, they I
are to fight on. The message is quoted as follows: "Soldiers: In agreement with the sovereigns of my affies and with the consciousness of victory I have made an offer I
I of peace to the enemy. Whether it will he accepted is still uncertain. Until that moment arrives you will fight on." I
London, Dec. 12, 4:59 p. m A general. note of pessimism prevails in London. One prominent official expressed himself to The Associated Press today as being I
very skeptical that the .proposed terms would offer even a basis for negotiation. I
I! Negotiations For Ending
j War Will Be Entered Into
Forthwith, is Announced
1 '1
l Propose Restoration of Status Quo$efore War
I ' With Exception of Establishment of Indepen-
I dent Kingdoms of Poland and Lithuania
I j Germany Desires Everlasting Ces-
I i sation of Hostilities.
I Berlin, Dec. 1 2, by wireless to Sayville. Germany and
I j her allies propose to enter forthwith into peace negotiations.
I j The propositions which they will bring forward are, ac-
I cording to Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg, an appeal -for
I I the establishment of everlasting peace.
I ; t The Austrian, Turkish and Bulgarian governments are
I j inaking similar proposals. These proposals also have been
I transmitted to the Vatican.
I ' Washington, Dec. I 2. Advices from Berlin to the Ger-
I ; rnan embassy indicate that Germany's peace terms, in general
I measure propose the restoration of -the status quo before the
I 5 war with the exception of the establishment of .independent
I ; kingdoms of Poland and Lithuania.
i Berlin, Dec. 12. By wireless to Say-
) nlle, The following announcement
was given out today by the semi-offi-
cial Overseas News Agency:
; "The chancellor received this morn-
ing one after another the representa-
j tives of the United States of America
I and Spain and Switzerland, that is,
of the states protecting German inter-
' osts in hostile foreign countries. The
;' chancellor transmitted to them a note
i and asked them to bring it to the
i knowledge of the hostile governments.
' The note will be read today In the
l'f reichstag by the chancellor,
j To Propose Peace Forthwith.
; "In the note the four allied (central)
I; powers propose to enter forthwith on
j peace negotiations. The propositions
I which the' bring for such negotia-
1 tions are, according to their firm be-
lief, apporpriate for the establishment
i of a lasting peace,
i; "The governments at Vienna, Con-
;t stantlnople and Sofia transmitted
; identical notes and also communicated
u with the Holy See and all neutral
1 powers.'"
:l News Sent to Wilson,
f- Washington, Dec. 12. News that
! Germany and her allies were about to
i enter on peaco negotiations was Imme.
diately sent to President Wilson,
f Speaking for the president, Secretary
Tumulty said ho was deeply interested
but could make no comment, at least,
until It was learned what reception
I the proposal would receive from the
entente allies,
i The state department received its
j first information of Germany's propos-
if als through The Associated Press des.
? patches from which officials assumed
that the offices of the neutrals ad-
;! dressed are asked only to transmit the
! t nrnnnsnl.c Thin -arlll ho rlnnn an far
as the United States is concerned,
promptly on receipts of the official
j despatches in Washington. They will
I be forwarded to all the entente coun-
1 tries where the United States rop
resent the central powers diplomati
cally. Whether the United States would
transmit any comment or suggestion,
: it was indicated, depends entirely
upon the nature of the proposal and
whether it is considered likely of con
sideration. If the offer is deemed
i one on which all -sides might nego
tiate, tho United States probably
would urge that it bo taken up.
Washington, Dec. 12. Germany's
peace proposals are understood to pro
pose the complete restoration of the
occupied portions of Belgium and
France in return for Germany's cap
tured colonies and to dispose of the
Balkan situation because of Its ex
treme complicated nature, in the peace
conference.
Germany Proposes Peace.
London, Dec. 12, 3:37 p. m. A wire
less despatch from Berlin says that m
his speech before the reichstag today !
Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg an
nounced that Germany together with
her allies "conscious of their responsi
bility before God, before their own
nation and before humanity," have
proposed to the hostile powers to en
ter into peace negotiations."
Stock Market Unsetted.
New York, Dec. 12. The stock mar
ket became immediately unsettled to
day on receipt of the news of tho Teu
tonic peace proposals. Munitions and
shares of other companies which have
profited by the war were most af
fected, Bethlehem Steel dropping 26
points.
Cotton Prices Adyance.
New York, Dec. 12. The announce
ment of German peace proposals serv
ed to stop tho decline of the cotton
here this morning, prices advancing
from the opening pC 18.18c for May to
18.50c or about $3.50 a bale above tho
low level of yesterday afternoon.
United StaleB Steel fell 3 points and
other prominent industrials yielded
as much.
Trading became feverishly active on
the docline and urgent liquidation was
ft virion t
The selling embraced practically ev
ery issue in that class of specialties
which have been strongest and most
activo recently. While tho market
was not demoralized in tho first peri
od of heavy selling, support was evi
dent only In the investment issues.
London, Dec. 12, 4:15 p. m. An
Austrian official statement, referring
to the peace offer, says:
"When In the summer of 1914 the
patience of Austria-Hungary was ex
hausted by a series of systematically
continued nnd ever-increasing provo
cations and menaces and the mon
archy, after almost fifty years of un
broken jpeaco, found itself compelled
to dravv the sword, this weighty deci
sion was animated neither by aggres
sive purposes nor by designs of con
quest but solely by the bitter neces
sity of self defense."
Peace Proposals by Germany
Calls Attention of Nations'
j Press Despatches.
WHY WAS OFFER MADE
Will President Wilson Make
Tender of Good Offices,
Is Being Asked.
Washington, Dec 12, The foreign
embassies and legations received
their first information of the desire
of Germany for peace, through Asso
ciated Press dispatches. On every
hand attention turned to what had
made Germany and her allies make
her proposals at this time. Although
for many weeks there have been per
sistent and officially denied reports
that some peace proposal was about
to be made by President Wilson, there
was no open indication that the Cen
tral Powers themselves were about to
make one. Generally the announce
ment came as a distinct surprise
mruugii uiuciai uuu uiijiuuiu.hu un
cles. One prevailing opinion was that
the Germanic allies had brought out
their peace offer at this time with the
expectation of making terms which'
might be acceptable to the allies of
England and in effect might possi
bly cause tho British government to
yield to the pressure of the nations
fighting with her. In this connection,
the recent crisis in Russia, in which
the duma interferred to prevent the
negotiations of a separate peace with
Germany, was recalled as an indica
tion of what the German foreign of
fice might bo looking forward to in
peace negotiations.
It has been generally acknowledged
in entente circles that efforts would
be made by Germany to conclude
peaco separately with her enemies but
so far all the entente nations have
reiterated their intention to adhere to
tiieir agreement made early In tho
war not to make a separate peace. The
recent death of the Austrian emperor,
Francis Joseph and tho succession of
King Charles to the throne of the dual
monarchy also was discussed as one
of the considerations which might
have been a factor in bringing about
peace proposals at this time.
The United States represents Aus
tria and Germany in Belgium, France,
Great Britain, Japan, Russia, Serbia
and Rumania; represents Turkey in
France, Great Britain and Japan; has
taken over Bulgarian interests no
where and does not represent any of
the belligerent governments in Italy,
Portugal or Montenegro.
oo
AMERICAN GIRL
WEDS JAPANESE
Seattle, Wash., Dec. 12. Miss Julie
Evans, 2G years old, who gave her
residence as Detroit, and Harry C.
Watanabe, aged 35, who said he was
in the toy business at Cleveland, Ohio,
were married hero yesterday and were
to leave today on a honeymoon trip
to Japan. Tho justice of the peaco
who performed tho ceremony omitted
the words "obey" and road that part
of tho service, "love, honor and keep."
The bride wore a wealth of diamonds
at the ceremony.
Watanabo Bald ho was related to the
Japanese consul at San Francisco.
CHANCELLOR IN
PEACE1PEECE
Outlines Extraordinary Po
litical Situation Which May
Be Turning Point in War.
Berlin, Dec. 12. By wireless to Say.
ville. Chancellor von Bethmann-Holl-weg's
speech is reported by the Over
seas News Agency Is as follows:
Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg
today announced to the reichstag that.
Germany, together with her allies
"conscious of their responsibility be
fore God, before their own nations,
and before humanity," had proposed
this morning to the hostile powers to
enter on peace negotiations.
Unexpected Summons Made.
Practically all the members of par
liament answered the unexpected sum
mons. Tho crowded house and
thronged galleries listened in atten
tive silence when the chancellor rose
for his speech
Tho chancellor first outlined the
extraordinary political situation and
then Insisting upon the achievements
of the central powers, made an an
nouncement which possibly may be
the turning point in the war, which
for more than two years has held the
world under Us spell. The chancellor
said:
"The reichstag had not been ad
journed for a long period, but for.
tunately it was left to the discretion
of the president as to the day of the
next meeting. This decision was
caused by the hope that soon happy
events in the field would be recorded,
a hope fulfilled quicker, almost, than
expected. I shall be brief, for actions
speak for themselves."
The chancellor said Rumania had
entered the war in order to roll up the
German positions in the east and
those of German's allies. At the
same time the grand offensivo on the
Somme had as its object to pierce
the German western front and tho
renewed Italian attacks were intended
to paralyze Austria-Hungary.
Situation Was Serious.
"The situation was serious," tho
chancellor continued. "But with
God"s help our troops shaped coidi
tions so as to give us security which
not only Js complete, but still more
so than ever before. The western
front stands. Not only does it stand
but in spite of the Rumanian cam
paign it is fitted out with larger ro
serves of men and material than it had
been formerlyy. The most effective
precautions have been taken against
all Italian diversions. And while on
the Somme and on the Carso the drum
fire resounded while the Russians
launched troops ncrainst the eastern
frontier of Transylvania, Field Mar
shal von HIndenburg captured the
whole of western Wallachia and the
hostile capital of Bucharest, leading
with unaparallel genius the troops
that in competition with all the allies
made possible what hitherto was con.
sidered impossible.
"And Hindenburg does not rest.
Military operation progress. By
strokes of the sword at the same time
firm foundations for our economic
needs have been laid. Great stocks
of grain, victuals, oil and other goods
fell into our hands in Rumania. Their
transport has begun. In spite of
scarcity, wc could have lived on our
own supplies, but now our safety is
beyond question."
Submarine's Heroic Deeds.
"To these great events on land,"
the chancellor continued, "heroic
deeds of equal importance are added
by our submarines. The spectre of
famine, which our enemies Intended to
appear before us, now pursues them
without mercy. When after the term
ination of the first year of the war,
the emperor addressed the nation in
a public appeal, ho said: 'Plaving wit
nessed such great events, my heart
was filled with awe and determina
tion.' "Neither our emperor nor our nation
ever changed their minds in this re
spect. Neither have they now. The
genius and heroic acts of our leaders
have fashioned these facts as firm as
iron. If the enemy counted upon the
weariness of his enemy then he was
deceived.
"The reichstag, by means of the na
tional auxiliary war service law, help
ed to build a new offensive and de
fensive work in the midst of the great
struggle," tho chancellor continued.
"Behind the fighting army stands the
nation at work the gigantic force of
the nation working for the common
aim.
Tells of Greatness.
"The empire is not a besieged fort
ress as our adversaries imagined, but
one firmly disciplined camp with in-,
exhaustible resources. That is the
German empire, which is firmly and
faithfully united with its brothers in
arms, who have been tested in battle
under the Austro-Hungarian, Turkish
and Bulgarian flags. Not confused by
asseverations, we progressed with
firm decision and thus we continue
our progress always ready to defend
ourselves and fight for our nation's
existence, for its free future and al
ways ready to stretch out our hand
for peace.
"Our strength has not made our
ears deaf to our responsibility before
God, before our own nation and before
humanity. The declarations formerly
made by us concerning our readiness
for peace were evened by our adver
saries. Now we have advanced one
step further in this direction.
Guarantee of Existence.
Berlin, Dec. 12, by wireless to Say
ville. The chancellor said 'the propo
sitions which Germany was being for
warded had for their object the guar
antee of existence, of honor and ofr
liberty of evolution for the four allied
(Central) powers.
London Awaiting Terms.
London. Dec. 12, 4:35 p. m The
foreign office today informed the As
sociated Press that it is unable to
discuss the German peace proposals
until the terms have been received.
Meanwhile the attitude of the British
government towards possible peace
terms remains as frequently enunciat
ed by the former premier and foreign
secretary.
oo
WHEATMMET
Chicago, Dec. 12. Wheat on tho
Chicago board of trade on receipt of
the news of the proposals for peace of
Germany and her allies, broke over
eight cents. May wheat sold last
night at $1.75 1-S. Within fifteen
minutes after the opening today the
price touched $1.66 1-2.
Tho descent of prices did not stop
until two cents more of a smash had
resulted. The extreme drop was $1.65
5-8 for the May delivery a loss of
9 5-Sc as compared with yesterday's
finish. At tills point buyers took hold
with vigor and a rally to ?1.6S 1-4
ensued.
Trading was on a huge scale.
May corn dropped to 90 1-Sc, a loss
of 2 l-8c compared with closing prices
of yesterday. May oats similarly sold
off 1 7-S cents to 54c. January lard,
the index of the provisions market aft
er selling at $15.60, advanced to $15.90
on the peace proposals.
During tho last fifteen minutes of
the session, wheat for May delivery
broke to $1.64, a drop of 1 l-8c a
bushel in 24 hours. December touch
ed $1.53 1-2, fall of 11 l-4c.
The close was wild, -1 7-8c to 10c
under yesterday's finish with May at
$1.65 1-2 to $1.65 3-4 and July at $1.42
3-4 to $1.43.
oo
VETERAN PRINTER
DIES IN CHICAGO
Chicago, Dec. 12. John McVickar,
73-years-old, once president of the In
ternational Typographical union and
formerly connected with the Detroit
Nows died here yesterday. Mr. Mc
Vickar also had been conected with
Chicago and other middle western
newspapers. He came here from De- :
troit a few weeks ago for an opera-
tion, from which he never rallied.
Teutonic Advance in I
- Eastern Wallachia is I
Still in Progress I
Petrograd Reports Failure of Ausiro-German At- I
lacks Along Moldavian Frontier and in Sec- : I
tors Northeast of Ploechti-Greek King I
:, . Orders Mobilization of Troops. ' I
London, Dec. 12, 2:45 p. m. A Rome dispatch to the I
Wireless Press says that Petrograd reports the Germans have H
begun the retirement of some of their divisions from Rumania,
transferring them to other fronts, and that the situation in . II
Rumania .is becoming more favorable for the entente. - - ; B
London, Dec. 12, 2:15 p. m. An Exchange Telegraph , I
despatch from Copenhagen says advices have been received : H
there from Switzerland that King Constantine of Greece has j H
ordered a general mobilization. j H
Peace proposals have been made
by Germany and her allies.
According to a semi-official an
nouncement in Berlin, tho proposals
are, in the belief of the Central pow
ers, "appropriate for the establish
ment of a lasting peace."
i The despatches, however, give no
j details as to what terms are proposed.
These will be made public in a speech
by Dr. von Bethmann-Hollweg, the
German imperial chancellor in the
reichstag today.
In the field of war, the Teutonic
advance in eastern Wallachia is con
tinuing with tho Rumanians apparent
ly seeking to take up a defensivo line
along the Buzen river near the south
ern boundary of their northern pro
vince of Moldavia. Petrograd reports
the failure of Teutonic attacks along ,
the Moldavian frontier and in certain
Wallachian sectors, notably northeast
of Ploechti, where the Austro-German
forces are pressing towards the Buzeu.
New activity has been developed by
the Germans on the Franco-Belgian
front. They attacked last evening on
the edge of Dos Loges wood, south of
the Somme sector, but according to
Paris, were checked and driven out
of portions of advanced positions
which they had occupied.'
The British foreign office, under
the now foreign secretary, A. J. Bal
four, is occupying itself with the
Greek problem, regarding which an
nouncement was made yesterday that
steps were being taken in an effort to
reach a very radical solution.
French Check Germans.
Paris, Dec. 12, Noon. German
troops made an attack yesterday eve
ning on the edge of Des Loges wood,
near Lessigny, south of the Somme
sector, tho war office announced to
day. Tho advance was checked by
the French curtain of fire.
The text follows:
"In the region to the north of Les
signy yesterday evening, the Germans
after a spirited bombardment, attack
ed our trenches at the eastern bound
ary of Des Loges wood. Our curtains
of fire checked the attack however,
and certain detachments of the enemy
who had secured a footing in our ad
vanced positions were driven out.
"After fighting in which hand gre
nades was used our lino was complete
ly re-established.
"There was the customary cannon
ading last night along the rest of the
front."
Bulgarian Posts Captured.
Paris, Dec, 12, Noon. Five small
Bulgarian posts on tho right bank of
the Vardar river on the Macedonian
front, have been captured by the
French, it is announced officially. The
operations "north of Monastir are be
ing impeded by snow.
1
The announcement follows: j :M
"On the right bank of the river j 'H
Vardar we have occupied five small ;H
Bulgarian posts, to the south of the i H
river Lymnitza. Snow has put a stop 'I
to the infantry operations in all the ' H
region to the north of Monastir, but 'H
the artillery fighting goes on yIo- H
lently. j H
"An enemy airplane has been j H
brought down on the Struma front. H
Our aviators have bombarded bar- H
racks of the enemy in the region of H
Doiran and in the valley of the Var- H
Paris, Dec. 12, 12:30 p. m. Premier fl
Briand announced today that he had H
completed reconstruction of the cab- ' H
inet and that the list will appear in H
tomorrow's Journal Official. H
Tho premier is expected to take a H
statement to parliament. H
Teutonic Attacks Fall. j H
Petrograd, Dec 12. Via London, i H
2:12 p.m. The failure of Teutonic at- I H
tacks in Rumania is reported in to-
day's communication from the war of- 1
ii co wmcn iohows: i
"On tho Rumanian front on Sunday I
tho enemy made unsuccessful attacks
in tho valley of the river Buzeu, north
of Tshlslau, on tho river Krikov and
west of Mizil.
"In Ddbrudja an exchange of flro is
proceeding.
"In the wooded Carpathians the
enemy conducted attacks at a point
five vcrsts nortneast of Chibena and 1
in the region of Capul mountain. Both H
attacks were arrested by our Are.
"In the region east of Belbour the
attacking enemy was beaten back. Our
detachments pursued them and cap
tured two heights. .
"In the valley of the Sulta rlvoi
enemy attacks were repulsed on the
front six vorsts northeast of Glas t
hiutte, south of tho valley of the Uzul I
river. We gained one of the heights." ft
Germans to Send Relieving Force. m
London, Dec. 12, 7:30 a. in. An 'M
Amsterdam despatch to the Times E
says that Count Reventlow, the well- 1
known German military critic saya f
that King Constantine now only de- ffi
sires to gain time to enable the Ger-
mans to concentrate a relieving force. M
The count is quoted as adding that It I
is uncertain if the Grook supplies will
last long enough to permit the Ger
mans to come to their assistance.
Prussian Minister Appointed.
Amsterdam, Dec. 12, via London,
3: 15 p. m. The Cologne Gazetto says
that General von Steine, the Prussian
war minister, Has been appointed a
general officer commanding the home
forces with powers including control
of the censorship laws as well as
other laws relating to a state of siege. I
( Dr Frederick Vining Fisher at the Tabernacle Wednesday, 8 o'clock, on "America Before the World," illustrat ed with stereopticon and moving pictures. I I
I i 50c and 25c. v . Matinee for children, 4 o'clock, 15c I I
