HOME EDITION
TODAY'S PRICES
tit-.' i W,k no ct..?e biMa. 12i
l. ppsc 7 c. Mexican rolti. BQr
ua iona.1-- L'ic. biit stiver. H. & IL
quotation. 7 r. copper. $35 50. grains
v .-r. livestock steady, stocks lower.
iVl z. i Vi
WKVTIIKK FOHECAsr.
M I'aM and Xrl Trxa-i. fair, warmer.
New Meslro. fair, warmer. Arizona,
fair warmer.
LATEST NEWS BY ASS0CIA1ED PRESS.
SIKGLC COPr. FIVE CENTS.
EL PASO. TEXAS. TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 12. 191b.
nl.l KK. .J N'T WHERE ' A MONTH
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
eized Territories!
etiir
PC
lfc
Germany To R
TET
AMI h 8 hi I i IN FVU
r
flillliUUU S U JL JM A 1 & 1 V
PET DuPlf I War At A Glance
UL I unus
- 77 t r 7 D. 7
emu assy near 1 tujusuld
Would Virtually Restore
The Old Status Quo.
TWO KINGDOMS
PROVIDED FOR
Lithuania and Poland To Be
Independent Stales; U. S.
To Transmit Plans.
Washington; d. c, Dec. 12.
The German embassy here re
ceived today advices indicating
t ie general tenor of the peace pro
V'sa's which the central powers are
I' akuig to the entente nations. These
r-cdvices. regarded as authentic indl
cte that the proposals suggest the res
toration of the status quo before the
. r with the exception that Poland and
2,-thuania would be created as sep
r -ate kingdoms.
They are understood to propose the
c M.plete restoration of the occupied
j. -tions of Belgium and France in re-J-.
turn for Germany's captured colonies
Le'eause of its extremely complicated J
nature, in the peace conference.
pud to dispose or the uaiKan inuiuun
Vpvk that Germany anu ucr iimco
v. re about to enter on peace negoti
ir,e Imtnpdifltelv Sent tO DrCSi
c, nt 'vT son today. Speaking for the
president secretary Tumulty said he
vis deeplv interested but could make
no comment, at Jeast uotij it was
1-amed what reception the proposal re
ceived from the. tDteaU-alJie .
The state department recelre its
first information of Germany's proposal
it-rough the Associated Press dispatcbr
e from which officials assumed Ihax.
thf offices of the neutrals addressed
are asked only to transmit the pro
posals. This will be done, so far as the
United States is concerned, probably oj
receipt of the official dispatches In
Washington. Thev will be forwarded to
all the entente countries where the
Vnited States represents central pow
ers diplomatically.
The United States represents Aus
tria and Germany in Belgium, France,
. . n.1,.1. Tqnan T it c i - 3t-irf;i anil
Rumania: represents Turkey in France.
Great Britain and Japan; has taken
ever Bulgarian interests nowhere and
does not represent any of the belliger
ent governments in Italy. Portugal or
Montenegro.
X S. Action Depends on the Proposals.
Whether the United States would ac
comapny the transmission with any
comment or suggestion, it was indi
cated, depends entirely upon the nature
f: the proposals and whether it Is con
sidered likely of consideration. If the
otfer Is deemed one on which all sides
might negotiate, the United States
1-robably would urge that it be taken
up.
News Surprises Diplomats.
The foreign embassies and legations
n'lo received their first information
of the event through Associated Press
dispatches. On every hand the discus
sion turned to what had moved Ger
many and her allies to make their pro
posals at this time Although for many
weeks there have been persistent and
cff' lally denied reports that some
peace proposal was about to be made
by president Wilson, there was no
DO YOUR SHARE TO HELP THESE
ONFORTUNJTE LITTLE CHILDREN
THE most generous contribution yet
received for the fund for Rescue
home babies came Monday after
noon from Mrs. R. M- Dudley, who eent
In ?!0 with the following note accom
panying it:
Editor El Paso Herald:
Enclosed you will find my check
for the Christmas fund of the Res
cue home
I trust you will find a generous
response to this most worthy
cause Mrs. It. M. Dudley.
The fund for these babies Is to pro
vide them a Christmas and some of the
necessaries of life in the way of
clothes.
The Rescue home keeps families from
being broken up. by caring for the lit
tle ones of widowed mothers and wife
less fathers who are unable to care for
their own children and who would be
forced to become separated from them
except for the good work of this home.
It is hard work at best keeping the
home supplied with the bare necessi
ties in the way of food and clothing.
Christmas Fund for the Babies
Enclosed find " for the Rescue Home Babies, to
help make Christmas happier.
Signature
Street and No
Uermany Does INot riead tor Mercy
PEACE proposals have been
made by Germany and her al
lies. According to a semi official an
nouncement in Berlin, the proposals
are. In the belief of the central
powers, "appropriate for the estab
lishment of a lasting peace."
The dispatches, however, gave no
details as to what terms are pro
posed. These were to be made
public in a speech by Dr. von Beth-mann-HolIweg,
the German im
perial chancelor. in the relchstag.
In the field of war. the Teutonic
advance in Wallachia Is continuing
with the Rumanians apparently
seeking to take up a defensive line
along the Buzeu river near the
southern boundary of therr north
ern province of Moldavia. Petro
grad reports the failure of Teu
tonic attacks along the Moldavia
frontier and in certain Wallachian
sectors. notably northeast of
Ploechti where the Austro-German
forces are pressing towards the
Deuzeu.
New activity has been developed
by the Germans on the Franco
Belgian front. They attacked
Monday on the edge of Des Loges
wood south of the Somme sector,
.but according to Paris, were de
feated and driven out or auvanced
positlonswhlch they had occupied.
The British foreign offi-e, under
the new 'foreign secretary, A. J.
Balfour, Is" occupying itself with
the Greek problem regarding which
announcement was made yesterday
that steps .were being taken in an
effort to reach a very radical solution.
open indication that the central powers
themselves were about to make one.
Generally, the announcement came as a
distinct surprise through official and
diplomatic circles.
Allies May Force Encland to Airree.
One prevailing opinion was that the
Germanic allies had brought out their
peace offer at this time with the ex-
Pectotion of making terms which might
be acceptable to the all fs o f . England
. . - f-- j --
British government to yield to the
pressure of the nations fighting with
her. In this connection, the recent
crisis in Russia, in which the durr.a in
terfered to prevent the negotiation of a
separate peace with Germany was re
called" as an indication of what the Ger
man foreign office might be looking
forward to in peace negotiations.
Senurate Peace Discussed.
It has been generally acknowledged
In entente circles that the. efforts would
lie made- by Germany to conclude peace
separately with her enemies but so far
all the entente nations have reiterated
their intention to adhere to their agree
ment made early in the war not to make
a separate peace. The recent death of
the Austrian emperor, Francis Joseph
and the succession of king Charles to
the throne of the dual monarchy also
was discussed as one of the considera
tions which might have been a factor
in bringing out peace proposals at this
time.
German Army Ass Kaiser
To Wear the Grand Cross
Of Iron Cross; He Accepb
Berlin, Germany. Dec 12. An official
announcement issued today says that
field marshal von Hiodenburg, as the
oldest active general of the Prussian
army, in the name of the army has
made a request of the emperor that he
himself wear the grand cross of the
Iron cross.
The emperor has accepted.
GREEK KING HAS ORDERED
MOBILIZATION, IS REPORT
London, Eng., Dec II. An Exchange
Telegraph dispatch from Copenhagen
says advices have been received there
from Switzerland that king Constantlne
of Greece has ordered a genral mobili
zation. There will be no Christmas at the home
unless through the generosity of Her
ald readers, for there is no money to
spare from the meager income of the
home to buy turkey or furnish toys
and candles to the little ones. There Is
also need for shoes, stockings and
warm outer garments for the children.
The fund now being raised will be
used to pioride a Christmas dinner
and some of the simpler toys for the
little ones: also for the clothing need
ed. Should there be a surplus. It will
be held for the future use of the chil
dren when clothing is needed. Many
times there arises an emergency at the
home when new children arrive shoe
less and virtually without clothes; oft
entimes there is sickness among the
little ones, when extra food Is needed.
The Herald hopes to make the fund
large enough to provide the Christmas
necessities for the boys and girls and
to have enough left over to meet such
emergencies during the year. The
Christmas fund must be cared) for any
how, that will come first. Ifi there Is
a surplus, it will be kept for the emer
gency fund; If not. the Christmas cheer
will be provided anyhow. Fill out the
blank below and send it to The
Herald.
GERMANY WOULD
JUSTIFIES DEFORTATISN N
Note Sent to United States in Reply to Protest States
Belgians Sent to Work in Germany Are Being Well
Cared For, Are Well Paid and Generally Con
tented With Their Situation.
BERLIN, GERMANY. Dec. ll. By
way London. Dec li.) Germany's
answer to the American note re
carding the deportation of Bel
gians is confined almost exclusive
ly to a presentation of the situation
in Belgium before the deportation or
der became effective The note de
clares that there was urgent need of
some kind of work for the Belgians,
tecause their idleness was causing
demoralization and says that the de
ported workers are assured of well be
ing in new situations in Germany.
The reply volunteers to permit
American diplomatic representatives to
visit the workmen's camps and assure
themselves that the Belgians are well
off. It concludes with an expression of
regret that the United States never has
seen fit to protest against what it de
scribes as the dragging off of Germans
from East Prussia. Alsace and other
places to Siberia and elsewhere. These
actions, or which it accuses tpe allies.
are characterized !n the renlv as a se-
vere violation of the laws of humanity.
Believes U. S. Misinformed.
The note declares that the German
government is convinced that the
United States has been misinformed in
regard to the measures which have
been taken and says that the lack of
work has increased until I.ZdO.000 are
suffering and an unbearable situation
created. Nothing remained, therefore.
the note continues, but to offer the
workless situations in Germany, since
work for ail was not at hand in Bel
gium. It is contended that the ma
jority of these who have come to Ger
many are hannvand contented, wiili
high wages and increased personal lib
erties and that only tho.e who prefer to
joai nave Dees comnuitu XtmrotK,
In Arwi.F-rt -Wlfk -fVw'
"The answer declares that the mi
FOREIGNERS IN
EL PASO DOUBT
.French and German Repre
sentatives Do Not Believe
Peace Is Hear.
French and German sympathizers in
El Paso did not seem enthusiastic Tues-
j day morning over the reports that Ger
I many had made peace proposals.
ju seemea to agree mat peace pro
posals by Germany at this time would
lead to nothing, even if they had been
made.
Here is what they say:
"I don't believe It but I hope it Is
true. Germany Is willing to mak
peace, but the allies have never lis
tened to her proposals. In view of the
fact that it Is reported that Germany
Is building more submarines to push
the blockade against England, and in
view of the fact that her enemies are
preparing for a more vigorous cam
paign, i oon't see how peace can be
very near." Max Weber, German con
sul in Juarez.
"Gem-any is willing to make peace
but I do not think that she would
take the initiative while winning. I
can hardly credit the report that Ger
many has made overtures for peace.
She is not starving at all, has made im-
TnttnoA IqnJ mttu -1 .1 (a nfhrwItP
I prosperous." Mme Johanna GadskL
prima donna soprano.
"Officially, I have nothing to say.
"Personally, like any other man who
is asked for his opinion, I believe that
nothing will come of this, for the rea
son that Germany cannot be allowei
what she is after: namely, terms of
peace arrange by others than those
upon whom she inflicted the horrors
it this war. She at least hopes hv
this move, if it is true she has made
it and she may yet deny it. seeing
how little she will get out of it to
win neutrals to the view that her ene
mies alone are to blame for the con
tinuance of the war; hoping further,
in the meantime that those same neu
trals will gradually forget who brought
it on.
'Germany's earlier boasting about the
might of her mailed fist, and the mes
sage from Holland to the neutral world
as published tn this morning's paper
mnph mnt-A
sincerely present,
In raj !
humble thinking, Germany's true and. ,
I fear, permanent state or mina. man i
what has Just come to us overseas i
bv wireless to Sayvllle" J. M. Rom-
agny, consular agetit for France.
NEW BRITISH MINISTERS
TAKE OVER DEPARTMENTS
London. Eng.. Dec. 12. The absence, j
through Illness, of premier Lloyd- I
George and former premier Asquith. the '
principal figures in the late ministerial j
crisis, and the decision of the cabinet
to postpone until Thursday its state
ment of policy, robbed today's session
of the house of commons of the Inter
est which usually attaches to the first
meeting of a new government with par-
liament I
Meanwhile the new minister: are !
mastering their departments, which !
most of them took over Monday. A. J.
tsauour. nowever. delayed nis transfer
until this morning, when he assumed j
charge of the foreign office.
ASSIST BELGIANS,
ure is entirely in accord with interna
tional law and cites article 43 of The
Hague convention, which requires an
invading government to maintain or
der. This, it is maintained, is possible
only in Belgium by providing that peo
ple who are able to work shall have
opportunity to do so and shall not fall
a burden on charity. The note says that
the measure has been carried out with
out' severity and with all possible con
sideration. Mistakes, it asserts, have
occurred rarely and have been due. in
part, to the fact that Belgians them
selves erred in making up the lists of
those to be transported to Germany by
including persons unaffected by gov
ernor general BIssing's order of May
15. 191G.
The note goes on to say that Bel
gians now working in Germany are en
gaged, without exception, in occupa
tions permissible under international
taw. such as legitimate, agricultural
and industrial pursuits and that the
German government regrets extremely
that the situation has been completely
I misrepresented in the United States by
the
'lvintr nress of Germany's enemies.1
The German government, it Is declared
in the Interest of the Belgian popula
tion also would regret if the activities
of the Belgian relief commission were
affected.
Hollanders Voice Protest.
London. Enir.. Dec IS. A strong pro
test against the deportation of Belgians
was made at a great meeting of the
1 Social Democratic Labor party, held at
Amsterdam. Holland. Monday, accord
ing to a Reuters dispatch from that
city. Magistrate Kliegen. of Amster
dam, th.- principal speaker, strongly
condemned German methods in Bel
glum. A resolution was adopted appealing
to all lovers of freedom, especially Ger
man . EoJali5,octaipUihe,
Belgian aeltt(ate5twas 'irren'atf ntku
ilastra welcome.' . ' v
BRIO FORMS
RISJABINET
French Premier Goes Right
Ahead With His War
Preparations.
Paris, France, Dec II. Premier
Briand announced today that he bad
completed reconstruction of the cabi
net and that the list will appear In
tomorrow's' Journal OfflcieL The pre
mier is expected to make a statement
to parliament tomorrow.
Some of the deputies are not satis
fied with the plan of a concentrated
ministry and desire to condense parlla-
ment.
Deputy George Bonnefous has
introduced a bill for the creation of
parliamentary committee or national
defence, which would continue for the
duration of the war. This committee
would consist of 30 delegates elected
by the deputies and 40 elected by the
senate. The committee would meet
weekly to consider information rela
tive to the military, diplomatic .and
economic conduct of the war as com
municated by the government The
chamber and the senate would hold a
brief session not more than once a
month in which to transact necessary
business and ratify the decisions of the
committee
WHEAT BREAKS SHARPLY
vm rv&v.cir 1 ur rALC HE. (to
Chicago. Dee i:.Wheat on the Chi-
cago board of trade on receipt of the
m3aWnSyOafntdhehePrr0aPllfe,i8 85kTO.?fK j
tne opening today the price touched
the opening today the price touched
1.2. I
The extreme drop was to J1.66 1-2 for
the May delivery, a loss of SK cents, as
compared with Monday's finish. At this
point buyers took hold with vigor and
a rally to J1.68 1-4 for may ensued.
Trading was on a huge scale.
RUMANIAN TOWNS SEIZED;
RUSSIAN ATTACKS FAIL
Berlin Germany, Dee II. (By wire
less to Sayvllle) Heavy attacks by
the Russians in the wooded Carpathians
and alone the Moldavian frontier nf
Rumania were renewed Monday, says
today's war office statement
ine ai-
tacks were repulsed
The town of Mizil, Rumania, on the
rallwav between Ploechti and Buzeu,
has been captured bv the Austro-Ger
man forces. Urzicenl also has been oc
cupied. Fund To Help The
Rescue Home Babies
Previously acknowledged ...... .Cl.lll
A. P.- Coles 5.00
Sirs. C. S. Sargent .-..0.1
Webbers llakery ............... 5.IMI
M. K. llnoehert u......... 5.IHI
E. II. Rogers S.1M1
A friend oo
t'aliel Greet i.i
i-riena l.lril
"i:luardo" l.im
Sirs. s. ltulTner
a -
0 DESIRE TQiNEUTBAL EMOYS
AIIIATE
Germany and Allies Are
Anxious to Mac Certain
Of Lasting Peace.
messageTpraises
teuton exploits
Declares, However, Material
And Spiritual Progress
May Be Ruined.
B'
EKLIN. Germany. Dec II. Follow
ing is part of the note ad
dressed by Germany and her al
lies to the hostile governments:
"The "most terrific war ever exper
ienced in history hrfs been raging for
the last two years and a half over a
large part of the world a catastrophe
which thousands of years of common
civilization was unable to prevent, and
which injures the most precious
achievements of humanity.
'Our alms are not to shatter nor
annihilate our adversaries. In spite of
our consciousness of our military and
economic strength and our readiness
to continue the war (which has been
forced upon us) until the bitter end.
If necessar . at the same time,
prompted by the desire to avoid further
bloodshed and make an end to the
atrocities, o war. the four allied pow
ers propose to enter forthwith Into
UJSStjaUons., . -j...
y-"Tiier propositions which thejf bring
forward for such negotiations and
which have for their object, a 'guaran
tee of the existence of the honor and
liberty of evolution for their nationals
are, according to their firm belief, an
appropriate basis for the establishment
of a lasting peace.
The four allied powers have been
obliged to take up arras to defend jus
tice and the liberty of national evolu
tion. The glorious deeds of our armies
have in no way altered their purposes.
We always maintained the firm belief
that our own Tights and Justified claims
in no way control the rights of these
nations.
Progress Threatened With Ruin.
'The spiritual and material progress
which were the pride of Europe at the
beginning of the Suth century are
threatened with ruin. Germany and her
allies, Austria-Hungary, Bulgaria and
Turkey, gave proor of their unconquer
able strength in this struggle. They
gained gigantic advantages over ad
versaries superior In number and war
material. Our lines stand unshaken
against ever- repeated attempts made
by armies
Kxpeet Farther Simn,
"The last attack in the Balkans has
been rapidly and vigorously overcome
The mostfcrecent events have demon
strated that further continuance of the
war will not result in breaking the
resistance or our forces and the whole
situation with regard to our trnnn.
Justifies our mdwiiii Wr tii..Z
illL' I". our "Peitation of further
AUSTRIA HAS ttO IDEA
nc rntintirpT I
vi v-uiivulji, VltrinA tenure silence when the chancelor rose
London. Eng., Dee II An official 1 for hilsp.eech
Austrian statement referrinl to the Outline. Political Situation,
peace offer, says: I Tne ehancelor first outlined the ex-
"VThen in the summer of 1914, the I traordinary political situation and then
patience of Austria-Hungary was ex- . the achievements of the central powers,
bausted by a scries or systematically j Tbe chancelor said:
continued and ever increasing provoca- I "The relchstag had not been ad
tions and menaces and the monarchy. I Journed for a long period, but for-
aiier almost jO years of unbroken !
Peace found itsplf mmiuiiui tn ...
"" neuner oy aggressive pur-
5355- by the titter' necessity" oV sf
defence' necessity of self
monhy ZrVooT
nhnenri iim, and f lUt " fh,
""""I""" ' "". "eAusxro-
"fuin army ana neel, iigntmg.
rl!".?- bu.t a.lso availing and Con-
quering, gained such successes that
tnpy frustrated tbf intentions of the
enemy. The quadruple alliance not
only has won an Immense series of
rectories, but also holds In its power
extensive hostile territories. Unbro
ken is its strength as our latest
treacherous enemy has Just experi
ence d."
GKUIIA.V rOniA.UKll OF
HOMi; FOItCUS APPOINTED, i
Amsterdam. Holland. Dee lz. The
Cologne Gazette says Gen. von Stein,
the Prussian war minister, has ap
pointed a general officer to command
the home forces, with powers including
control of the censorship laws, as well
as other laws relating to a state of
siege.
COTTON RALLIES STRONGLY
WITH PROSPECT OF PEACE
Xew York Dee 1" The announce
ment of German peace proposals served
to stop the decline of the cotton mar
ket here this moraine nrtC(.ft nrlvanMn.-
from the opening of IS ISc for May to
1S.50C. or about J3.50 a bals above the
low level of Monday afternoon.
FIVE BULGARIAN OUTPOSTS
. ARE CAPTURED BY FRENCH
I Paris. France, Dec. 12. Five small
Bulgarian posts on the right bank or
the Vardar river on the Macedonian
front have been camured by the
French, it is announced officially. The
cperationx north of Monastir are he
mic impeded by snow
But Offers To Cut For
TEUTON PROPOSALS TO ENTENTE
Chancelor von Bethmann-Hollweg Calls In Diplomatic
Representatives and Hands Them Text of Proposal
Suggesting That Peace Be Effected Address to
Reichstag Outlines German Position
LONDON. Eng.. Dec 12. A general feeling of pessimism prevails ia
London regarding the peace proposals which the German government,
in concert with its allies, announced today were being made.
One prominent official expressed himself to The Associated Press today
as being .very skeptical that the proposed terms would offer even a basis for
negotiation.
This official said, however, that the note was a dramatic coup which
would create interesting developments in the diplomatic situation and provide
the first official peace overtures of the war.
The foreign office today informed The Associated Press that it is un
able to discuss the German peace until the terms have been received. Mean
while the attitude of the British government towards possible peace terms re
mains as. frequently enunciated by the former premier and foreign secretary,
(that the entente nations must continue fighting until Belgium and France are
restored and immunity from German aggression in the future is guaranteed)
KAISER NOTIFIES HIS FORCES.
A Central News dispatch from Amsterdam says it is announced officially
in Berlin that emperor William has notified his commanding generals of Ger
many's peaces offer and has informed them it is still uncertain whether the offer
will be accepted. Until that uncertainty is ended, the message says, the- are
to fight on.
The message is quoted as follows:
" Cllrli.,.. Tn - rr.--.n , I i. - t if ,
. "'"V . "oy-""""-
consciousness ot victory, 1 have made
n win dc accepted is sun uncertain.
"Until that moment arrives you
DTTV f T-i .
ssis. 'COT TV --
I "miiafcAJ'. UTi ill till . utC. li, ID
U . "
j) -ft .relets to Samlle. I I.) Ira-
wa vji.im.i.iui w vi iJ wcMiiuau-
Hollweg appearedbefore the relchstag
today- wltteaTonnal
ffmaTannomcement ttfrt?"iLin Not
Germ any and her allies proposed today
Id. the hostile powers to . enter. Into
peace 'negotiations. . . " ,
Earlier-. In the day, according, to .an
announcement by the . Overseas News
agency, the chancelor received, 'one
after another, the r.epresen.tatlyes . of
the United States, Spain and Switzer
land, the countries representing German
Interests In hostile foreign nations.
The chancelor transmitted - to -them a
note to be forwarded to the hostile
governments, proposing entry upon
peace negotiations. The news agency
stated the propositions .which the cen
tral powers bring forward for peace
negotiations are. according 'to their
firm belief, appropriate for the estab
lishment of a lasting peace
It was announced that the govern
ments at Vienna, Constantinople and
Sofia transmitted Identical notes and
also communicated with the Vatican,
and all neutral powers.
Speech Before neiehstajr.
Chancelor von Bethmann-Hollwes's
speech is reported ly the -Overseas
News agency as follows:
Chancelor von Bethmann-IIqllweg to
day announced to the relchstag that
Germany, together with . her. .allies,
"conscious of their responsibility be
fore God. before their own nations, be
fore humanity," had proposed this
morning to the hostile .powers, to enter
on peace negotiations.
Practically all the members of par
liament answered an unexpected sum
mons to convene The -crowded- honse
uirengeu gaiienes listened in at-
tunately it was left to the discretion of
the president as to the day of the next
meeting. This decision was caused bv
the hope that soon happy events in the
field would be recorded, a hope fulfilled
"Ulcker. almost than expected. I shall
be brief, for actions speak for them
selves." Jlevlews War Operations.
The chancelor said Rumania had en
tered the war in order to roll up the
German positions In the east and those
of Germany's allies. At the same time
the grand offensive on the Somme had
as its Meet to pierce the German
western front and the renewed Italian
attacks were intended to paralyze Austria-Hungary.
German Security Is Complete.
"The situation was serious." the
Put Up Christmas
Decorations on Sidewalks
EXEMPLIFYING the Christmas spirit, the merchants around Hoaeer
plaza have put up Christmas trees about the lamp posts in freat of
their places of business, as they did a year ago. It is the first appear
ance of Christmas decorations.
Other merchants are arranging to follow the example, as tliey did a
year ago, and it is expected that Et Paso's" business streets will soon become
a forest of greenery.
These decorations lend charm to the general appearance of .ike business
section of the city and add much to the general festival appearance; they
help to create the Christmas feeling among the shoppers and people gen
erally. The Herald hopes every merchant on every street downtown will jom ia
the campaign to make El Paso more beautiful for the holidays, bv putting
out these greens. Every light pole in the city should be covered in pine
boughs Christmas is but two weeks away. It is none too soon to begin put
ting up the decorations. When people feel the spirit of Christmas, they shop
with more enthusiasm. The decorations are calculated to create the proper
spirit. .
a
WILL TRANSMIT
"ic ju.ctcigns or my allies and witir the
an oner of peace to the enemy. Whether
will fight on."
4 .
.
i chancelor continued "Knt xci, r: -
j help our troopa shaped conditions aoas
t dccuiiiv wdico not nniv in
i complete but still more so than ever
only does it stand but in spite ot the
Rumanian campaign it Is fitted out
with, larger reserves of men and nia
tertal.than It had before. Most effec
tive precautions have been, taken
against -all - Italian ' diversions. And
while on the Somme and! on the Carso
the drumfire resounded, while the- Rus
sians launched troops against the east
ern frontier of TfaWsylvaniav field
marshal von Hindenburg captured 'the
whole of western JVallachii. and the
hostile capital of Bucharest leading
with - unparalleled- genius' the troops
that in competition with all the allies
ade possible .what hitherto was con
sidered impossible
- Economic. Safeguards TUken.
,,;n,i Hindenburg does not rest
-unitary operations progress by -strokes
of the sword. At the same time firm
foundations .for. .our. economic needs
have been laid. Great stocks of grain,
victuals, oil and other goods fell into
our hands in Rumania. Their trans-.e?un-.,
?n sn'te of scarcity,
wer cbOId- have lived on our own sup-
qulstlo nW Ur Saftty iS be3rd
J"10 these great events on land, the
chancelor continued. ' -heroic deeds of
equal Importance are added by our sub-iVfn8-
Tn1 secter f famine which
?emies ""indel to appear before
us. now pursued- them without mercy
??n?Vher the te"ni"tion of ih?fiSi
.war- the en,Peror addressed
""e,t.her ur emperor nor our nation
ever chaaged their minds in this re-SmJ-
Ner nave hey no" The
r.aS? heolc acts of our leader!
h-or? ??-,S"ed the,e cts as firm as
rron. ir the enemy counted unon th
deiv of h,s thenwas
Thnh'11 G,oa""ee Existence.
Ti2 hance,' said the propositions
GrmaBlVlva3 now bringing tor
nfhadfor thelr ''"J'1 the guaran- -rh
nf f.?' l honor and of Hb
"entrMw fUr aIIied
finTJ5enrt?sts' by means of the na
H ?. li3. tery ,Taa service law. helped
lMwi,?-a,neWK0rfe,,8lve and defensive
bulwark in the midst of the great
struggle, the chancelor continued. "Be
hind the fighting army stands the na
tional work the gigantic force of the
nation working for the common aim.
tl2lre ne Great Discipline! Cum p.
The empire is not a besieged fortress
as our adversaries imagined, but one
gigantic and firmly disciplined camp
with inexhaustible resources. That is
the German empire which is firmly and
faithfully united with its brothers in
arms.' who have been tested in battle
under the Aastro-Hungarian. Turkish
(Continued on Page Column I.)
New De
