VOL. XX NO. 220.
GERMANY AND HER ALLIES
HAVE STARTED NEGOTIATIONS
FOR A PERMANENT PEACE
Chancellor Von Bethmann -Ho.lhvcg
Announced To-day That Propositions
Under Consideration Are Appropri
ate for the Establishment of Lasting
Message Transmitted to Lead
Peace
ing Neutral Nations
THREE OTHER CENTRAL POWERS
OFFER SIMILAR PROPOSALS
Representatives of United States, Spain
and Switzerland Were Summoned by
the German Chancellor and Told to
Acquaint Hostile Governments With
the Offer as Soon as Possible
Berlin, by wireless, Decl2. Germany and her allies to-day
proposed to enter forthwith into peace negotiations. The proposi
tions which they will bring forward are, according to Chancellor
Von Bethmann-Hollweg, appropriate for the establishment of a
lasting peace.' The Austrian, Turkish and Bulgarian governments
are making similar proposals. These proposals have been trans
mitted also to the Vatican.
The following announcement was given out to-day by the semi
official Overseas News agency :
"The chancellor this morning received one after another the
representatives of the United States and Spain and Switzer
land ; that is, of the states protecting German interests in hos
tile foreign countries. The chancellor transmitted to them a
note and asked them to bring it to the knowledge of the hostile
governments. The note will be read to-day in the Reichstag
by the chancellor.
"In the note, the four allied 'central' powers propose to en
ter forthwith on peace negotiations. The propositions which
they bring for such negotiations are, according to their firmest
belief, appropriate for the establishment of a lasting peace.
The governments at Vienna, Constantinople and Sofia trans-
mitted identical notes and also communicated with the Holy
See and all other neutral powers"."
"CONSCIOUS OF THEIR RESPONSIBILITY."
CENTRAL POWERS PROPOSE PEACE
London, Dec. 12. A wireless despatch 'from Berlin says that in
a speech before the Reichstag to-day Chancellor Von Bethmann
Hollweg announced that Germany, together with her allies, "con
scious of their responsibility before God, before their own nation
and before humanity," have proposed to the hostile powers to
enter into peace negotiations.
GERMANY SAID TO DEMAND
FREE POLAND AND LITHUANIA
Washington, D. C, Dec. 12. Advices from Berlin to the Ger
man embassy indicate that Germany's peace terms in general pro
pose the restoration of the status quo before the war, with the ex
ception of the establishment of independent kingdoms of PoLijnd
and Lithuania. They are understood to propose the complete Ae
storation of the occupied portions of Belgium and France in return
for Germany's captured colonies and to dispose of the Balkan sit
uation, because of its extremely complicated nature in the peace
conference.
GERMANY NOTIFIES
TROOPS OF PEACE
NEGOTIATIONS
But Because of Uncertainty About En
tente Accepting the Offer the Troops
are Told to Fight On.
London, Dee. 12. A Central News dis
patch from Amsterdam says it is an
nounced -officially in Berlin that" the em
perur has notilled the commanding gen
erals of Germany's peace offer and in
formed them it is uncertain whether the
o.'IVr will be accepted. Until that uncer
tainty is ended, the message nays, they
nre io light on.
GERMAN TROOPS ARE
LEAVING RUMANIA
Divisions are Being Transferred to Other
Fronts and Situation There is More
Favorable for Entente.
London. Dec 12. A Rome dispatch to
the Wireless Press says Tetrograd re
ports the Germans have begun a retire
ment of some divisions from Rumania,
transferring them to other fronts and
that the situation in Rumania is becom
ing more favorable for the entente.
TEL
KING CONSTANTINE
ORDERS A GENERAL
TROOP MOBILIZATION
Dispatch Received in Switzerland Says
Greece's Ruler Has Called Out All
the Soldiers in His Dominion.
London, Dee. 12. An Exchange Tele
graph from Copenhagn says that ad
vices are received from Switzerland to
the effect that King Constantine of
Greece has ordered a genera! mobiliza
tion.
NEW FRENCH CABINET
HAS BEEN COMPLETED
Premier Briand Announces That the List
Will Be Published Wednesday and
He Is Expected to Make
Statement in Parliament.
Paris, Pee. 12. Premier Briand an
nounced to-dav that he had completed
Jhe reconstruction of the cabinet and
that the list win appear m io-morrow a
official journal. Th premier is expected
to make a statement in Tarliaraent to
morrow. FRENCH CHAMBER IN UPROAR
When Socialist Deputy Said Frenchmen
Should Not Fight for Russia.
ia:i. i "r - ...-. .,.ru.v.
Pierre Brizon, cuej another tumult ia
tic Chamber of Deputies jeatcrdajr dur-
BARUE DAILY TIMES
HAIUIE, VKHMOXT, TUESDAY, DKCKMUKH 12. 1010.
ing the discussion of military appropria
tions, when he declared that Frenchmen
should no longer fight to assure the pos
session of Constantinople to Russia.
"You're a traitor," was yelled at M.
Brizon by deputies in all parts of the
house.
Various colleagues of M. Brizon en
deavored to quiet him, but without avail.
During the excitement M. Brizon grasped
a water glass which stood before hira
and threw it at the heads of the depu
ties in a semi-circle before the secre
tary's desk. Thereupon M. Benoult, vice
president of the Chamber, who was pre
siding, ordered a suspension of the sit
ting.' M. Bri.on was hooted by the entire
Chamber as he moved alone to his place
among the Socialist seats at the extreme
left of the Chamber.
M. Brizon demanded the rlht to be
heard on the application of the rule and
l mounted tho speaker's stand. He de-
clarcd that ii. isouge una graveiy lnmwi.
ed him by exiting, "How much did you
receive from Germany to do the work to
which vou are applying yourself ?"
The Chamber then decided to exclude
Brizon. The galleries were cleared and
the session again suspended. When it
was resumed 20 minutes later, M. Brizon
had left the Chamber.
ITAtY TO PUSH THE WAR.
Calls to the Colors Men of Class of
1898.
Koine, Dec. 12 Italy no less than her
allies is preparing to make 1017 a year
of its most vigorous prosecution of the
wa r.
Two events yesterday so indicated the
new determination of the nation.
One was the calling to the colors of
the class of 1808 one year in advance
of the time at which men of that age
ordinarily would be called upon for mili
tary serice.
The other was the vote of confidence
accorded the present government by Par
liament. The session was a secret one.
The vote was 37o to 45.
TWO CHILDREN' BURNED.
Lost Lives When Lamp Tipped Over in
Their Home.
North relham, N. H., Dee. 12. Paul
Edwin Sleeper, aged six, and his brother,
Graham, aged five, children of Mr. and
Mrs. Frank W. Sleeper, were burned to
death by a fire in their home last night,
supposedly caused by the capsizing of
an oil lamp, and the Sleeper bungalow,
into which the family moved only Sun
day, was burned to the ground. The
loss is estimated at $1,000 and there ia
no insurance.
SHOULD RULE CANAL ZONE.
That Should B Work of United States,
Says Goethals.
Pittsburg, Fa., Dec. 12. Addressing
more than 1,000 engineers at the annual
dinner of the Engineers' society of west
ern Pennsylvania here last night. Major-General
George. W. Goethals reeom
inenrlpil the abroiation of the Taft agree-
HTLS
ty over the canal, zone by the United
States. He also declared that the canal
urmlH he made to pav larerely if it was
llnwH to enaaue in "business other than
I that directly concerned with the transit
of shipping.
"We must allow all materials and sup
plies to enter the rone free of customs
duties," General Goethals said, "and en
courage enterprise that will result in the
building of great warehouses and show
rooms for the storage and display of
American goods. If these things are
done, and if we limit the administra
tion to the interest of America and
Americans we will have done more to
bring about better relations with the
people of the Central and South Ameri
can countries than anything else we
might do."
General Goethals declared that because
of the system under which American and
English vessels were rated as to their
carrying capacity, on which they are
taxed for tolls all the advantage was
with English shipping as against Ameri
can and it worked also to the disadvan
tage of the canal.
SHIP IN DISTRESS.
Transport Sumner Went Aground in Fog
Off Barnegat, N. J.
New York, Dec. 12. The United States
transport Sumner, bound from Colon for
New York, was ashore in a heavy fog
off Barnegat, N. Y., last night, according
to a wireless message feoeived here. The
Sumner sent an "S. O. S." call for assist
ance, and several steamships in the vi
cinity responded.
The Sumner sailed from Colon on De
cember 4. She carries passengers, mails
and merchandise, and is a vessel of 3.453
tons gross. She is commanded by Capt.
Webber.
The coast guard cutler Mohawk and
the steamers City of Montgomery and
Themistocles were first to answer the;
transport's call for assistance. The
steamers City of Columbus, Lampasas
and Kl Cid followed soon afterward. A
wireless message from the City of Co
lumbus said she was rushing with all
(possible speed to the Sumner,
LIQUOR VOTE IMPORTANT.
Sharp Contest in 17 Massachusetts
Cities.
Boston. Dec 12. Sharp contests for
city offices in many instances marked the
election held in 17 Massachusetts cities.
Strnno effort, to swav the annual Tote
on license were made in all the munici
palities, largely as a result of the sue
of the no-license interests in win
ning four new rities last Week. Of the
cities voting to-day, 12 are now dry ana
five are wet.
PUBLIC MIND
IS POISONED
By "Lying Press of Ger
many's "Enemies," De
clares Official Note
REPLYING TO PROTEST
OF U. S. GOVERNMENT
Deported Belgians Are Said
to Be Well Cared For
in Germany
Berlin, Dee. 11, via London, Dec, 12
Germany's answer to the American note
regarding the deportation of Belgians is
confined almost exclusively to a presen
tation of the situation in Belgium before
the deportation. The note declares there
was urgent need of some kind of work
for the Belgians, because idleness was
causing demoralization.
The reply volunteers a permit to Amer
ican diplomatic representatives to visit
the workmen's camps and assure them
selves that the Belgians are well off, and
concludes with an expression of regret
that the United Stales has never seen
fit to. protest against the dragging off by
the allies of the Germans from East
Prussia, Alsace and other places to Si
beria and elsewhere. These actions are
characterized as severe violations of the
laws of humanity.
The note says the Belgians now work
ing in Germany are engaged without ex
ception in occupations permissible under
the international law, such as legiti
mate agricultural and industrial pur
suits, and that the German government
regrets extremely that the situation has
been completely misrepresented in the
United 1 States by th "lying press of
Germany's enemies."
HOLLAND APPEALS TO U. S.
To Put an End to the "Hellish Scourge"
of Deportation.
London, Dec. 12. The Associated Press
has received from Amsterdam an "Ap
peal to the American people" by the Hol
land section of the League of Neutral
States. The appeal is signed by Presi
dent Niemeyer and Secretaries Delafaille
and Walch. It follows.
"Your president Miid that sooner or
later a moment would come when the
war would make the position of neutral
nations unbearable. For us Hollanders
that moment has arrived; not through
our own sufferings but because we cannot
passively contemplate the ghastly suffer
ing inflicted by Germany upon Belgium,
our neighbor.
"The eloquent protest of the Belgian
government and of the higher clergy
have acquainted you with the facts. We
glance at tho section of The Hague reg
ulations of 1907, which deals with the
law of war on land, will make it ob
vious to you that the sole reason why
the prohibition of this-modern slave deal
ing was not included was because no del
egate imagined it would ever be neces
sary. "Indeed, one. must turn to the history
of the early ages of long past centuries
before international law existed to find a
parallel to the enslaving of the Belgians.
The Hague regulations stipulate that tha
honor and rights of the family must
be respected, but the German government
deliberately drags the Belgian families
apart. To us this cruelty is more vivid
every day. Every day numbers of fugi
tives, in spite of the deadly erected wire
which the Germans have erected along
the frontier, succeeded in escaping to
The Netherlands. From them we learn
the painful details of the Jinutterable.
despair of the women and children who
are left behind and of the agonizing
scenes which take place when husbands,
brothers and sons, dragged from their
homes and women folk are packed into
cattle and freight cars and thus trans
ported slaves to an unknown destination
and to an unknown fate
"To put an cud to this to arrest this
hcllih fccourge which at this moment
lacerates the whole of northern France
and western Russia, there iR but one way
open, and that is collective action on the
part of the neutral nations.
"And for you, citizens of the mighti
est of neutral states, it is, in our opinion
the right and duty to fake the leader
ship upon you. Only if you place your
selves at our head can any success crown
our effort. This tyranny is not to be
borne in patience, an.l the neutral na
tions cannot longer stand idly by while
in western Europe the most primitive
laws of humanity, observed even by un
civilized races, are trampled under foot."
WAS SERIOUSLY INJURED.
Mrs. Charles Atkins Fell Down Stairs at
Bellows Falls.
Bellows Falls. Dee. 12. Mrs. Charles
Atkins, who came here from Portland,
Me., last Friday, fell while going down
a flight of stair at the home of her
daughters. Mrs. Ralph Breslend and Mrs.
Edward Breslend, sustaining a severe
cut in bat-W of one ear. ruts on the brad
and shoulder, injuring her right arm and
receiving internal injuries. Mrs. Atkins
is a large woman which accounts for the
riou--nes f her injuries.
AWAIT REPLY
OF ENTENTE
Wilson Will Make No Com
ment on Peace Offer
Till Then
BUT PRESIDENT IS
DEEPLY INTERESTED
Government at Washington
Will Adopt Wary At
titude at Outset
Washington, D. C, Dec. 12. The new
that Germany and her allies were about
to enter on peace negotiations was sent
to President Wilson. Speaking for the
president, Secretary Tumulty said he was
deeply interested but could make no com
ment, at least until it was learnrd what
reception the proposal received from the
entente allies.
The state department received the first
information of Germany's peace propos
als through Associated Press dispatches,
from wliirh the officials assumed that
the offices of the neutrals addressed were
asked only to transmit the proposals.
This will be done so far as the United
States is concerned nroniDtlv on receipt
of the official dispatches. They will be
forwarded to all the entente countries,
where the United States represents the
central powers diplomatically.
Whether tne t nited Mates wouia ac
company the transmission with any com
ment or suggestion, it was indicated, de
pends entirely upon the nature of the
proposal and whether it is considered
likelv of consideration. If the offer is
deemed one on which all sides might
negotiate, the United States prouauiy
would urge that it be taken up.
TWO WERE KILLED
AT WEST RUTLAND
When Locomotive Collided with Block of
Marble Swinging From
Derrick.
Rutland, Dec. 12. The 10-year-old son
of Mr. and Mrs. Stanley La Gage of
West Rutland, was instantly killed and
his body terribly crushed and Patsy
Dino, about 4ft years old, an employe of
the Vermont Marble company, received
injuries from which he died within a few
minutes, about 4:35 o'clock yesterday
afternoon when a Delaware & Hudson
locomotive collided with a block of mar
ble swinging from a derrick at tne lnie
Blue plant of the Vermont Marble com
pany at West Rntland.
. tL snnitin ottArtii-il tn two nasseneer
coaches, was backing toward, the True
Plue.4lant when woricmen swung mt
derrick carrying a block of marble weigh
ing several tons, directly over the rails.
Engineer H. Seism was unable to stop his
train and the tender of the locomotive
struck the marble, splitting the block,
pieces falling on each side of the track.
One piece fell upon the I -a Gage boy
and the other dropped upon Dino, who
was at work under the derrick. The ten
der of the engine was badly damaged.
Conductor J. H. Collin was in charge of
the train.
The a Gage boy was on his way to
meet his father, who is employed by the
Vermont Marble company.
Dino was removed to the office of the
marble conipanr, but expired as he was
taken into the building. Dr. C. B. Ross
-j ti- c V Vlnmminn were summoned,
but the injured man died before they ar
rived. The marble company's ambulance
removed the bodies to the homes of the
victims.
The accident happened opposite the
Vermont Marble company's store. As
the train backed toward the True Blue
plant the engine was passing some cars
on a siding and the derrick boom swung
out behind the cars directly in front of
the approaching engine. The tender aWl
the engine crashed into the block of mar
ble and the impact loosened the heavy
chains which suspended the stone.
KILLED BY STREET CAR.
Ernest Row Was Lying on Track Near
Winooski.
Burlington, Dec. 12. Ernest Rowe of
i.. nation ua almost instantlv
killed shortly after 11 o'clock last night
when he was hit by the main line Es
sex Junction car. The accident occurred
on what is known as the tlats near
Weston's hill, about a quarter of a mile
east of Winooski. The body was man
gled to a great extent and death occurred
-I.- 4 1,. man vii nicked un from
OOIl inn ,
the track. Howe was lying on the track
and was not seen until the car hit him on
account of the snow which was falling
and w hich had covered mm.
The accident occurred at 11:10 o'cloik.
llalsev Coombs was motorroan of the
' . . . . iL. .J, r-
ear and -en rowier .-
Mr. Coombs was running his car towards
.1.;. in a heavy fall of snow, which
covered' the front of the car and had
covered the track. Rowe had been on tne
track long enough to be covered. The
motorman did not see the man until just
hj time the car hit him. The
emergency brake was applied immediate-
v and the car Droiiem w m aiop
as possible.
Dr. J. G. Thabaiilt, health officer of
Colchester, was called from Winooski and
the remains were moved to the under
taking establishment of A. B- Umgne.
An examination showed that the left
L had been cut off. both arms broken
and that there were severe injuries to
the head, with probably a tracturea
skull. . .
whv Row wa lvmir on the tracic
could "not be explained last nipht. An
sill he held to-dav at the under -
taking'room. Roe "about 3J years i
WILL EXAMINE
PORTER WOMAN
She Waived Examination in Court To
day On th Charga of Bigamy and
Was Put Under $1,000 Bait
Brattleboro, Dee. 12. Mrs. Walter K.
Porter of Marlboro, who was arrested
yesterday, charged with bigamy, was ar
raigned just before noon to-day in mu
nicipal court. She waived examination
and was held for county court by dudge
Barber under bonds of $1,WH. In de
fault of bail, she wns taken to the New
fane jail for safekeeping.
Application will be made to the su
perior judge to have her committed to
the Waterbury asylum for observation
as to her sanity. Her second husband,
Rufus Warren, formerly of Montpelier
and now of Uiwell. Mass.. from whom
slie had not been divorced, came to-day
and took their threo-vear-old son to care
for.
DEATH OF FRANK COLBY.
Had Been a Resident of Barre for Sev
enteen Years.
iVunL- .1 Colbv tih.si'iI awav at the
home of his mother, Mrs. K. C. Colby, 218
Washington street, Monday evening at 6
o'clock. Mr. Colby had been in declin
ing health for the past four years and
. .. .. t-ir...l
hud been eonlinecl to nis ueu ior mire
weeks, although the end came unexpect
edly. Death was due to diabetes. J He
deceased was a man who never enjoyed
vigorous health. Much of his young life
was passed in fcast urangc, wnere nc
torn Jan. , IMil,. one of four children
born to the late Edon Emerson Colby
and Emily C. (Merrill) Colby. For the
past seventeen years he had resided with
his mother here in Jiarre. neswes
mAiLar l,o U.K. hi brother. Charles M.
Colbv. who lives on the Colby home farm
- . -
in East Urange; tnree nieces, r.
ma Coffin of Harre and Misses Helen and
f Kant Oranie: and two
nephews, Ed'son Colby and Dwight Colby
of East Orange.
The funeral will be held at me coioy
home on Washington street Thursday
forenopn at 11 o'clock. Rev. J. W. Bar
..uUr nf tha Harre Conffrecational
church, will officiate and interment will
be made in the family lot in the ceme
tery at East Urange.
FUNERAL OF PERLE DOW
Was Held From His Late Home in East
Barre Monday Afternoon.
The funeral of Perle Dow, whofe death
occurred Saturday from Bright'a disease,
was held from his late, home in East
Barre Mondav at 1:30 p. rg., Rev. W. H.
Bishop and Rev. James Ramage officiat
ing. There was a large attendance.
Three selections, "Deautiful lle of
Somewhere." "We'll Never Say Good bye
n Heivpn ana ome uhv mtu umn-
stand were sung by Mrs. Samuel Guy
stand, were unB -
anJ Mra. raul snow or i eosin ioc
Rur al was in tne v asningion crmu-
tery the bearer, being Ben LoVery. Ber-
nie Wilber, Will Blanchard and M. E.
P . '
There were many flowers, as follows:
Forty-one white carnations, Mrs.
Mrs Maud Bohonon, Mrs. Effic Bruce,
Mrs! H.Uie Covell. Charles Dow. fifth
erade and teacher. Mr. and Mrs. honen
Wilber. Mr. and -Mrs. a. i. nun, -'ir- "u
" " . i ' , .i
Mrs. Iiernie W l ber, Koseouu cis
Baptist church; carnations and roses.
ttaptisi iiiumi, ...... ...
Mr. and Mrs. 11. A. JlcAiiisier; pn
roses. A. H. -Jioare ana im-micu
Covell.
THREE DEATHS IN FOUR DAYS.
Rutland Family Has Been Sorely Af
flicted.
p,,,ia.,,l iw 12 For the third time
within four days death visited the houe
of Thomas F. Canticld of this city yes -
tcrday, when Paul, t ne of his twin sons,
three weeks old, passed away. -nr. oil
field's mother, Mrs. Michael Canticld, who
went to the house to take care of his
.t the lime of the birth of twins.
contracted pneumonia and died Jast
Thursday, ageu a
Mrs. Canfield died Sunday of grippe a
few hours before the funeral of the old
er woman.
TW0 STUDENTS FINED.
After Being Found Guilty of Trapping
,. Muskrats.
i;,l,nl,nri- Dec. 12. Baron Manor
ami John Todd, two Middlebury college
freshmen, who were arrested a lew u.s
ago' by Fish and Game Warden George
II Chaffee on a warrant charging vio
lations of the fish and game laws by
apping muskrats at this seaon in .a.i-
ison countv. paid their tines yesier-
dav. . . . .
The young men were tried oeiore jus
tice A. W. Dickens and louna gum?.
Manor had ten pelts and was fine,! W
and costs of $ti.4S. and Todd, who had
four pelts, was fined 2 and costs of
6.48. Thev called at the oince or mc
justice ana semcu.
STUCK HAND THROUGH WINDOW.
Basketball Player Injured at Bellows
Falls Last Evening.
rw. Michael .1.
Manning, a member of Co. E basketball
team, drove his left hand through a win
dow while playing at the state armory
lat night. He lo't the tip of the hrt
finger and the hand and wrist were badly
gashed.
Manning. ho is one of the star men
on the state championship team, will be
out of the gam for some time.
VERMONT BUSINESS TROUBLES.
wwon Walkef of Barre and H. F. DJna
1
of St. Johnsbury.
HUTlrlnfl. 1 - ' in-i n Hill i ii '
v unre tiled ve, t,r.l.v with
12. Two petitions in!
Clerk F. S. Pl-tt f the' Cnited' States
...
court. Weston Walker of Itarre, a car tin- I'lpJ'"'""
nter.ha. liabilities of .7.Jfii and l"l plans for a suite of room, to
ts o $22.V all claimed exempt. H. K. lie leaded by the club. A comm.ttee eon
Dana of St. Johnr-burv. a laborer, claims -i-tin of ..eoree Brand.. Joseph Fraser
to owe snd gives bis asts a- and -'am.-s Freelsnd was appointed to
1 r.ru.r n farorabla- titration
with 2.V exempt.
A. H. Fasola of Berlin street i -a ':?
a few davs in We-t P.arnet on lm-im
leonnected w ith the Exclir Gian.te t
of Montpelier.
TRICK, ONE CEXT.
STEEL BROKE .
. 26 POINTS
Munitions and Other Shares
Profiting by the War
Sagged Heavily
ON RE' -. JPT OF NEWS
OF PROPOSAL
Co n Strengthened in New
. ork and Wheat Prices
Dropped in Chicago
New York, Dee. 12. The stock market
became immediately unsettled to-day on
receipt of news of Teutonic peace pro
posals. Munitions and shares of other
companies, which have profited by the
war, were most affected, Bethlehem Steel
dropping 2tl points.
In the cotton market the announce
ment served to stop the decline in cot
ton, the prices advancing about .f.L.iO per
bale above the low level of yesterday.
Wheat Tumbles.
Chicago, Dec. 12. Wheat broke more
than eight cents on the Board of Trade
receipt of the news of peace proposals.
May wheat touched $1.60'i.
BLAZE AROUND CHIMNEY
Called Fire Department to Tenement Off t
North Main Street.
For the first time since the late days
of June, firemen were called from the
central station Monday afternoon to re
spond to a general alarm. The blaze
was in the tenement house at 1S9 North
Main street, in the rear of the Currier
block, and was confined to the upper
storv of the building, a structure which
is owned by R. S. and C. L. Currier. The
damage will not exceed $2."i and is cov
ered by insurance. A. H. Buzzell of Ho
tel Buizell advised the fire station of the
outbreak around 4:30 o'clock and later
someone turned in box 21 on the Depot
square corner.
Only chemicals were necessary. The
ladders were used in scaling the walls of
the house and to extinguish the flames
was the work of bnt a few moments.
The all-out signal was given almost im
mediately. The house is occupied by E.
o.bn i iTmrlanri and Iv. Bresaw. An
overheated stovepipe was responsible for
. .t. .. 1 in
wnur-airn Ovo.vrt . r
the blaze and people who do business in
,.i;u f tl, little court vard bor-
u.i v" - ----- - -
tenants seemed to be having trouble .with
a fractious chimney yesterday morn ng.
A fireman remained at the house last
evening to see that the chimney behaved
riur.i.
fice. it was the first general alarm to be
sounded since June 25. when box la on
i.
'"" "lT "- i -- ---
Li ,.,.,( v, nronuses to be a rec-
cnw ..." - .
Lrd breaker in the small number of
. :, at 4h eentral station.
marras ir..o. ,
TALK OF THE TOWN
Charles A. Murphy of Burlington wa
a business visitor in the city to-day.
James Johnson and A. C Smith left
this morning for Tunbridge, where they
w
ill attend an auction saie mis amr-
I,0"
Hill.
in,.,r.r .T R Kmiie of the Park the
1
t
re, who recently underwent an oper
ot lin ("it v' hospital, continues to
recover steadily "and expects to be out
of doors within a short lime.
John l.ukes, the Goddard athlete who
was called to his home in Saranac, N. .,
shortlv after Thanksgiving on account
of the death of his father, returned to
Harre last evening and will resume his
studies at Goddard.
Miss Evclvn Slayton. who submitted
to an operation at the City hospital sev
eral weeks ago, was able to return to
her home in Montpelier yesterday. Miss
Slayton was taken ill while visiting at
the' home of her sister. She expects to
resume her diitie-: as a tciepnune uP.i-
ator within a t-hort time.
i w c-ottrell of Boston, who has been
spending several days in Harre in the in
terests of the I'enn .Mutual i.ue ins. ...
left yesterday for his home, but will
make' several' stops while en route, in
v- ii....,,.uli'iru iiml northern Massachu-
.rn lininj."". -
setts Mr. Cottrcll is at present general
.... iL.
manager of the company irom nu m-
ton office. .
Among the prominent men in the bed
,.irln of Harre and vicinity, wno
if iw. ..itv tbi noon to attend the dis
trict meeting of Bed Men in Springlield
verc Alexander Boss, great prophet of
the Barre lodge, and George Rock, great
keeper of the East Barre lodge. E. C.
Barrett, great sachem of Montpelier,
joined the Barre lodjjemen at Montpel
ier. and accompanied them on the trip.
The ladies and pastor's union of the
Hedding Methodist church will hold their
regular monthly meeting at the church
Thursday at 2:30 p. m. As this is the
la.t meeting of the year, all who have
not paid their due-, are asked to do so at.
this time. After the mating a food ale
will be beldn,l all ladies who are will
ing to contribute to this are asked to do
so without further soliciting. All ar
ticles left from the November sale will
1 sold at thi- time.
After lat night's meeting ot the Mead
" n...L i:.,lf dub it was stated by th
officers to-day that an attempt will be
I TflMUf I" C" - ---- I
,!. to se-ure permanent cmo room
. . .i,- .,,rml4T. In the Mimimr an!
fall much fi the tint at th hpom! of
the ."nl. nimil-rs is s-n. "n ..r
i fir 1 . . , . .
oour-e near Krook street, but a desire to
cntinu some of the oc.-l features o
. iii 1h winter hsil
'for the rluh. At the same meeting it
wi"B ' " . " "...
. m derided to hold a dance on the even
ing .f IV-c. 2"i aril a committee of ten
el.-cted to lae hrge of the ar
rangementa. c ... -- -
