DAILY EDITION
VOL. VU, Kn. ft.
SEW
LEGISLATORS
CLUB '
T
Septra OregcaSclccjEclJ
beres&g Scsssa,
Diis sd Rasa WiS
csrcid Orpssf
Ths coming of the legislative dal'
Cation ' from southern Oregon to
. Grants rW yesterday iu of tbt
deepest Interest, not alone to the
members of the delegation, but also
to avery cltlien who tu privileged
to greet tht visitors. The solons mH
Informally at the Commercial club
room upon their arrival, and re
oetved a number of delegation and
Individ uali who wished a bearing up
on proposed legislative enactment.
Later the delegation met In executive
aaatlon, and matter pertaining to
the organisation of the legislature
were dleeuaaed till lata In the even
tng. At SO the visitors were Hie
guesta of tbt Commercial clnb at
dinner served In the club rooms
Tht dinner hour waa enlivened by a
umbwr of musical selections, K. 8.
Van Dyke and. Mrs. Harmon and Ml
Florence Smith dellghter the diners
with tbelr songs, while the HI nil
8chool orchestra gave several excel
lent numbers.
During tht hour Phil Dates, or
Portland, and Dean Cordley, director
of the state experiment station at
Corvallls, made addresses, expressing
to tht legislators and club members
their wlahew along matters of legls
latlon. Mr. Dates Is Interested In
eeklng a legislative appropriation of
I2&.000 per year for two years for
the exploitation of Oregon scenic re
ouroes and the turning of tourist
travel through tht state. He ex
plained the value of the tourist trsde
to the various communities of the
tate, and said that the expenditure
of a moderate fund would be return
ed manyjold.
Following Mr. Dates, Dean Cordley
told pf the work done by tht ex
periment -illation, noting some In
vestigations that had been worth
more to Oregon than all the college
had ever cost. He aald that the eta- j
tlon was not asking tor new appro
priations from the state at the coin-
lag session, but sought only the re
instatement of certain continuing
appropriations that had been Insd
verently repealed at the last ses
Ion. At tbt meeting of the Com-
(Continued on Page 1)
liEW BLOOD IS TO '
LEAD IN FRANCE
Paris, Deo. 12 New blood for old,
ocoRomy and efficiency for wasteful
boss and lack of concentration In
Koverhmnntal administration -this Is
what Premier Brland In aiming lit
In bis reconstruction,
' Those who were predicting that
J ntf re would be retired looked upon
General Petaln, defender of Verdun,
as his probable successor, although
there were also some suggestions thnt
General Nlevello, he.ro of Vaux, might
bechoson, According to a Temps, an
nouncement of Premier Brland'a new
cabinet Hiay be msda today. It ap
peared certnln lie would follow In
Lloyd-George's steps and select I
mall, compact "'war council" to
handle France" part of the war,
-1
No Q?Town in the
SEC. DAIIIELS HOT
LIKELY TO RESIGN
Washington, Dee. 11. "I will rec
ommend next fall." is Secretary of
the Navy Daniels' significant state
ment at (he house naval committee
hearing, which waa . today credited
here a being his Informal way of
setting at rest reports and rumors
uist be would quit his post. The
statement closely followed a formal
snnouooement by Secretary of the
Treasury MrtAdoo, saying he baa no
Intention of resigning his portfolio.
Auihorltatlva declarations were also
made at the While House, that, with
one exception. President Wilson will
start out his second term with no
changes In his cabinet. ,
In connection with the Information
obtained at tht White Mount on tht
cabinet situation. It was learned that
Washington university has granted
Secretary of Agriculture Houston an
extension of his leave of absence as
chancellor.
The one possible change Is' the si
torney generalship.' If Attorney
Oeoeral Gregory finds .he cannot
continue in that position because of
personal reasons. It Is believed Sec
retary of War' Baker will be twitch
ed to the department of Justice, and
that Vance McOormlck will be given
the wr portfolio.
STOCKS FALL IN
NEW YORK MARKET
New York, Dec. II. A break in
prices on the stock exchange today
following Chancellor Hollweg's an
iicuncemcnt regarding pent', had
sent U. S. Steel, the market bar
ometer, down three poln'i tj 120
at 1 1 a. m.
The market found, support among
traders who srgued Berlin peace pro
posals do not mean peace Is Im
minent, and although there was a
rush of trading In which a half mil
lion share were, dumped into the
market In the first hour, t'.e break
was not panicky.
Republic Bteel receded four points;
Cuba Cane augar declined 1 to
IOHj Central Leather, which has
been a bull stock .broke three points
to 10814.
The peace proposal creto1 no
great flurry In Morgan elides and
this was regarded aa significant .
It was taken to Indicate that the
financial representatives ir the silled
poaers did not regard firor:l ac
tion on tht Berlin proposals aa likely.
Admittedly the greatest deterring
force from the British standpoint Is
Lloyd-George. Tht belief was gen
eral that tht British would not con
sent to a cessation of hostilities at
this time, with their political house
Just In order and their organisation
for a major effort still untried. It
It recognised thnt as yet but half of
the full military strength of the
British has been tested under fire.
The fact that at this moment or
Germany's proposal, France was also
In tho midst of forming a new gov
ernment, Is also counted on to dis
count probabilities of Betlimsnn-Holl-weg's
proposals bringing favor In
France, ' . '
V. H. THANHPOItT Nl'MNHIl
1H JtRPOHTKD ANIIOHK
Now York, Dec, 12. The Unltod
States transport Sumner Is ashore off
Barregntt, N, J!' WrolPns messages
from the- vessel, tvhlr"h 'went ashore
In the fog tast'VlghlVlndlcuted that
ear)y today she was" expected to be
flouted (gain before, evening. The
sea Is light ami the Sutlincr is rest
ing enslly according to her reports.
F0L1
TIIECillET
GRANT! PAM, JOSEPHINE OOUMTT, OREGON,
World the Size of "Grants Pass
mm m
KAISER INDICATES TERMS
FOR EllTIEl
eaeBBWeagaMMBBgfflftBaMMHga '
Resfcrc&a cf Ttrritcrid S(:
lb Ccrcc:rt cf Clia, Except Fcr bij-
ptiil Khsd:j cf Pcli id Lia, Is tb
Cfcitf fc&a Id Fcr Ecrca Strifi
Y mJUagum, Dee. 14. 4i era say's pear prupoaals, accord lag to a Oer
enaa embassy official, will laclnde naggtaUoa that tht territorial sUtasof
the aatioas engaged, be returned "practically' to what It waa before tbt
war started. . - h , .., ,
The exceptions are eatabUiOuneajt of lmlepeadrat Ungitnam of I'uUad
rad Lithuania nod mmte rradjustmewt of international boaadariea la Hie
Halkaae. -, . . -
On the Utter queatioa, It waa said, the situation la so complicated that
It la bard, at tkia time, deflaitHy to aagge aaythiag like positive terms
thai would be accepted by all belligerent.
The owe concrete awggeatioa made la that llnlgaria probably will waat
tht ratarB of the territory, aht lost ia tho second Balkaa war,' aad It la sup
posed Germany guaranteed this whea Caar fVrdlaaad rmut his lot with the
rvatial powers, v '
Tht peace terma, tho t ailed lteaa'
tloa of Kraacw, reetoraUoa of tht klagdom of BWginm,t a least a partial
reatoratloa of HerMa aad ltaaasaaia,
roloalea.
The factors which are said to have
at this time are:
Tht favor We mnilary poslUwa.of the mutrm ' '"
The fact that the w later at head will aeceana4o resnatioa of hard fight-
lag for three moalha
A deaire to "smoke oat" the allies
lagfr. .
Desire to rimvlnce the world aad
that Germany la aot fighting a war of
Iteelre, If war continue, to let the
sponsible for further bloodshed.
The peace terms outlined, the German official Intimated, are not nere-
sarily Germany's final proposition.
"The liniMtrtnnt quewtion Is to find
said Uiis official.
"Germany makea the proHwals In
MMH.UlrfJ a tel.... t ir,..l .. LJu.
George calleil, In his Interview with
'a knockout.' " . ,
Although he has no appointment, it li eHTled AmtNUMulor von Hem
storff will(se Secretary Lansing and thoroughly dlHcuss with, him the whole
matter, It Is believed MMudle that von llernatorir may shortly express a wish
for an audleiire w ith Prewident Wilson. .
It is not believed Ambassador Gerard had any definite Information of
Geraiany'a proposals when he left Berlin. .
It la said In some diplomatic circles that Germany's move may have been
puf forth because of their triumph In Itoumanla, the cabinet cri-ee In Kna
land and France and the strong proliabtllty that Greece will Join Germany
at any time.
uerun, via aayvme, uec. ia.
Proposals by the central powers that
peace negotiations fie entered Into
forthwith, were made In notes hand- governments,
ed to representatives of neutral "The note will be read, complete,
countries which are representing ( today In the relchstag, by the chan
Oermany In belligerent nations to- cellor.
. "In the note, the four allied
Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg power propose to enter forthwith
Milled the diplomatic representatives ! Into peace negotiations,
of tha United Statea. Spain and j "Tht propositions which they bring
8wltterland to his offlce one after for such negotiations, are, ffccoid
another, and handed this note to lng to their belief, appropriate tor
thmn. . establishing lasting peace.
The chancellor at-kec" the neutral "The governments of Vienna, Con
izations which ro'iresent.flermany and
li. r ullied powers n'. the capitals of
the nations with which she Is at war
to bring these proposals to the at- J
tehtlon of Germany's enemies,
Tlie propositions which Germany !
advances In these negotiations are,
according to Germany's belief, ap
propriate for the eatnblltthment of
lusting peace..
Tho governments at Vienna, Con
stantinople and Sofia transmitted
Identical notes. The text was also
communicated to the .Vatican at
Rome and to all other neutral
powers.
The exact text of the proposal, It
was annbunced by the Press Bureau ,
today .to neutral countries, was as
follows: , .....
"Tlio chan'-cllor this morning re-
cnlvfd. onct after tbe other, the rep-
rnscntntlyes of the Ujited,.v States,
ffpajn nd Swltaerlnrid-T-tliat A Vl
the" states protecting German In-
terestt In hostile countries. . . .i
, , TIEBDAY, DECEMBER 13, I0l
Has a Paper With Pull Iieased Wire Telegraph Service.
hi
Aj It Eiid Prcrica b
laformaat said, lacladed tho evacaa.
aad the retara to Genaaay of her
led to the Uermaa. peace faxnosals
to announce Just what they are flglit-
the German people wherever they are
territorial eonqueat and
world know Germany will aot be re
out whether the allies will talk peace,"
order to find out whether it is more
tt..H .U . 1-1 . . 1 A ,
the Vnlted PreHs, sotue days ago
, "me chancellor transmitted to
them a note and asked them to bring
'it to the knowledge of the hostile
stantlnople and Sofia transmitted
Identical notes. Tht text was also
communicated to the Holy See and
to all other powers."
By handing the note to the rep-
resentatlves bf the United States,
Spain and SwIUerland, Germany real
ly transmitted It directly to her ene
my nations. Under existing condi
tions, this Is the only possible course
of diplomatic Interchange between
the central powers and the entente
allies. '
., Tho procedure In transmission of
Germany's peace proposals will be
Identical In the cases of all the neu
tral nations, whose cooperation Is In-
voked
. The representatives of the United
States, Spain, and Switzerland will
hand the note to their respective eap-
Itals. The foreign offices, or state de-
partments, of these neutral nations
will then' transmit the'text to the
American, Spanish - and Swiss am
bsssadors or ministers at the capitals
ITALY liEAOY TO
VIGOR III 1917
Rome, Dec 12. Italy, no leu than
her allies, Is preparing to make 1117
year of. Hs most rigorous prose
cution of tht war. ,
Two events so Indicated tbt new
determination of tht nation.
One was the calling o tht colors
of tht class of 1898. one year in
advance of tbt time when men of
that age ordinarily, would be called
on for military service. .. .
The other was tht vote r confi
dence accorded the present govern
ment by . parliament. - The - aeasion
was a secret one. ' The vote waa 87
to 45. Details'of the division of this
vott were not made public, but It
la supposed those who opposed tht
government's plant were tht social-
let wing and tome adherent of Gio-
Uttl. ' , ,
LITTLE ACTIV1TV ON V
, THE WrSTKKX FltOXT
Paris, Dec. 11. A German attack
In the woods of Des Loges, north of
Lasalgny. was. stopped , yesterday
evening, today's communique assert
ed. Tht usual cannonading and fire
acreeniagoperationa were reported
i t , - r "-t
umicn aioog me iront.
IS
ED
Paris, Dec. 12. France's recon
struction cabinet, designed to carry
on the war, with re-doubled vigor,
haa been completed ' by Premier
Brland. He authorized the United
Press today to make this' announce
ment." Brland said he would pre
sent himself at the chamber of dep
uties tomorrow to make a formal
statement or the changes, which he
had decided upon in the Interest of
compactness, efficiency and more vig
orous control of France's participa
tion In the war.
SIXTEEN HELGIANS
KILLED IN RIOT
, r "
Amsterdam. Dec. 12. Killing of
sixteen Belgians In a riot at Tur
colng, Belgium, due to German de
portations, was reported by tbe news
paper Echoe de. Beige today. A Ger
man soldier, who struck a Belgian
with the butt of his gun "waa at
tacked by the crowd and the German
troops In charge of deportations, re
sponded with a volley. Many were
reported wounded. Fifty Belgians
were arrested.
LUYD-GKOKGE MVCH rtETDCR
London, Dec. 12. Premier Lloyd
George was feeling better today after
the chill which forced him to bed
yesterday. His physicians, however,
ordered that he remain Indoors for
another day or two. '
of the entente allies. These am
bassadors will ,ln turn, formally de
liver the note to the governments
of the entente nations.
The same procedure will be fol
lowed In the case of formal replies
to tho peaco propositions. England,
for Instance, will probably give to
tbe American ambassador, tbe Span
ish ambassador and the Swiss min
ister Identical notes, detailing her
response to Germany's proposals.
These will be transmitted to the
capitals of the United States, Switz
erland and Spain and through dip
lomats channels formally handed to
Germany through the agency of tbt
American, Swiss' and 8panlsh dip
lomatic representatives at Berlin.
PUSH 11
I'ITII
WHOUB NUMBER I Mi.
IS
tea CbuxH:r TcHj lb
Idb hcpdd Pec
Berlin. Ia SsyrUle, Dec 12.
Chancellor ron Betbmann-Hollweg's
statement to the reichstag. aa Issued
by tht praea bureau, is as follows:
'CbaacelloT roe Bethmana-HoU-weg
today announced la tht reichstag
that Germany, together with her al
lies, 'conscloaa of their responsibility
before God, before their own nation
and before humanity,' had propoaed
this morning td the hoetlla powers .
that they eater peace negotiations."
Practically sill members of parlia
ment appeared la answer to an unan
imous summons. ' crowded house
and ' tbronged galleries listened ia "
retpeetfai- tttettcfr-wbew the chaaoaU-
lor arose for tit speech, ia. which
be outlined the extraordinary polit
ical situation, and then, insisting up
on the achievements of the central
powers' made ' tbe announcement '
which possibly may act aa the turn- -lng
point In tbe war, which for more
than two. years has held , the worloV
under a spell.
"The chancellor said it was fortu
nate that the reichstag had not been
adjourned, but the calling of the nest '
meeting had been left, to the . dis
cretion of tbe president. : s
" 'This decision,' said the chancel
lor, 'was caused by the hope that
soon happy events In the field would
be recorded; that 'hope has been
fulfilled quicker almost than expect
ed. I shall be brief, for our actions
speak tor themselves. ; ,
- " 'Roumanla had entered tht war
In order to roll up our positions In "
the east and that of our allies. At tbt
tame time, tht grand offensive on tht
Somme had failed of Its object tht
piercing of our western lines, and
renewed Italian attacks, which had
as their purpose the paralyxatlon of
Austria, also failed.
" 'But with God's help, our troops '
shaped condition so that wt gained
that security which Is not only com- .
plete, but still greater than ever be
fore, " The west front stands firm and
In spite of the Roumanian campaign.
Is outfitted with larger reserves of
men and material than It had been
formerly. Most efficient precautions
hare been taken again-1 all Italian
diversions. And while on tbe 8om.mt
and tbe Karat drumfire resounded;
while the Russians launched troop
against the eastern frontier of Tran
sylvania, Field Marshal von Hlndea
burg captured the whole of western
(Continued on Page 2)
TOLD OF PEACE TALK
' Berlin, Dec. 1!. Kaler William
notified his troops In the field that
be had made peace proposals to tbe
enemy,
: "Soldiers," his majesty said, "la
agreement with sovereigns of my al
lies and with consciousness of victory,
I bare msde an offer of peace to the
enemy. ,,. . , t . ,. . . ;
"Whether It will be accepted, Is
still uncertain. Until that moment
arrives, you will fight on.','
