MAILS
From San Francisco !
Twin, June. 27.
For San Francisco:
Matsonla, June 21.
From Vancouver:
Niagara. July 11.
For Vancouver: ?
Alaknra, July 21.
rntnr nif1ltln ' EiL 1882. No. 6511
14 PAGES-HONOLULU, TEBIUTOBY. OP HAWAII, MONDAY, JUNE 26,1916.-14 PAGES,
PRICE FIVE CENTS
Hawaiian Star, Vol XXIII. No-
fill!
i
liiliiittiK Thousands uf lWKMvjSialiMiii?
ROAD fflG mm m Wi Militia Rushed
FtEE;IAtli REPORTED CAUGI
On2rof Di::rf:2S is Firaisoi 7!i3 KilEsd PcHcenisn
..-.ton dM!::!j r.J
,-j!::rftC:iis:cf
z Three desperadoes; meniberg of the territorial prison ang at work on
the-Keamoku road., ialand .of HawaU. motinled last Saturday evening, shot
:. . a Porto Rican dangerously and broke for liberty ; -
Their career of attempted murde r waa cut abort by the capture of all
three, according to a wlrelesa message to the Star-BuUetln shortly before
noon today; This repoxt aays that they are now ,yn lose confinement in
. vTbe charge against, them Is conspiracy to kill -BlDy" Woods, as terri-'".torUI.:Jailot-.vlip-wM
la'charge of.the Keamoku camp and road-gang.
. Their iuutlny aud desperate attempt; to get liberty-and Uke to the
' ' wilds of the Big Island. Are told in meager details which rival some of the
: exploits of noted outlaws of American fact anfiction,-
First news of the affray came, to the territorial priaon authorities by
T- wireleaaaat .S Vclock. last" night ':
Among.the three, ringleaders ot wnat la said to be a serious consp
racy Is Henry rurguson, former sold ir,. wnose life I was sared .tn 191
when Governor Pinkham commuted a death sentence to life Imprisonment
: Furguson was sentenced to death for the murder of Police Officer Manuel
Abreu. - He Is about 21 years of age, and the governor saved his life on the
- ground that the then hoy of. less tha a 19 -was mentally deficient ,
The other two ringleaders are G. J. Lyons and John .Monroe, the lat
ter colorecL According to the territorial JaU records, both of these are ex
; , soldiers r, Lyons vas convicted in 191 J of killing a Japanese hack-driver ia
Iwllel and sentenced to 10 years Imprisonment; and Monroe was sent up
' for four years in 1915 for robbing a
r early -this morning in a letter from
? Archie Kaaua of Walmea to John ; H.
1 4 Wise. Shortly after thla the Hllo cor-
S i i respondent tf the. Star-Bulletin, wiror
; ,:; lessed this paper, when the men were
i i lodged in HUo jail A brief message
: bad ome to Acting'. High Sheriff 'Pat-
; -ft ylck GJepson, who is offlclatlng ijt the
absence ot High.: Sheriff Jarrett, who
l'l went, to the St Louis .convention," The
-V authorities, hd wever, ; got I only ; the
: w bare detail that . the three ,jaep..ha4.J
atmprta TnurGer. ' -ine miormauon
-ifcctivelly Ose StsrEulletla- raa5la
Rites of v Orient - Performed ; in
Occidental Setting at the
uninese uonsuiaip
With .Impressive ceremonial - in
whUljl ?the rites" of , the ancIentOrlent
contiiUed iff ' striking . manner, with
surroundings of Uie Occident official
hon,ora were paid today .at, the ,ChI
nese'bn?ulate to the memory ofithe
lateA'uan Shlb-Kai; president Qfthe
ZlepisUe of China. T 8-vv :.ty
. f 1a the modern room of a modern
ottCtal : ouse : the i cbnsujate on
Sheridan t street talW candlet burnel
Ctal 'iaf a large,. vte footn thU
morning ' before a draped portrait
Shoto of the noted leader. Vhose sud
en -Heat -a few , daya ago .startled
the woridt tlmultaneously with', that
of X6rd Kitchener. 'i And. oh a .table
' before the portrait stood r incense,
fruit, and wine, to be later off ered op
in token of veneration to the great
man of a great race. '
. - Outside this -room where the an
cient ceremonial ruled, . a modem
brasi hand played funereal music,
while of the many Invited guests not
one but wore : occidental dress
either' the uniform of the diplomatic,
consular or military services or tho
ccaurenU6nal - black of occidental
mourning.
"the .ceremonies, ofief and simple,
but strongly impressive, began at 1
o'ciock. .' ,At that -time there had as
sembled at the consulate about a hun
dred Invited guests. Including he gov
it.i .v. i
and; their aides, National Ouard.com
mander and aides, the consular corps,
heads jf commercial bodies and other
prominent citizens : and a number of
tConllnued'bn iage eight)
OUTSIDE JURORS MUST .
NOT COME TO CITY TO
BE EXCUSED, IS ORDER
Persons living on the outer Islands
who axe summoned to serve as Jurors;
in the local federal' court hereafter I
will, not be permitted to journey to
Honolulu and thenpresent to the court
their reasons for wishing to be ex
cused. Those, wishing to be excused
must embodyCthelr reasons in a let
ter to the judge. Otherwise they may
be penalized.
This procedure Js j?rcYlded for in a
book. pf instructions to marshals, U.
I &r attorney. : fclerfca and k commissiqu
ers;. issued -by the department, of jus'
t!ce! cn' Jure 11916. L , ,-, .
niirnr
Was Sfd Fo Execution By
Ccnsnirccy to Kill -"BET Woods,
.voman?at Ia.Uet
NEW YORK STOCK
: 1 MARKET TODAY
... ..... ; .j
atocka on the New - York market t
day.sent by tha Associated Press yr
the Federa WirIes:
V .
It-
- V
Satur-
1 . " .
Alaska Gold
eld V.h-..;.4l 2!
American ' Smelter 3Va
Amr(caiC"'Tl. il? z
AnawVtf Poppeit i;.V 7BV4' ; 80.
AtcMaoa i l ;vA :i XX t103 , 40'
Baldwin toco. V 77 '
Baltimore & "Ohio. .. 87
son
BewehmsteeiiS.i
Calif Pptifetcum"' : J '17ai
444
Cali.! Petroleum....; :17U17
Canadian Pacific .V.. i 174Jr4 17IU
M. A St P. (3t Paul) ' 97;:
woto. run a iron,,,,..
Crucible 8teet. ixt. U V 7i 7V4
Erie" Common ......... 36 ;
General Electric 14H - 16 ,
General Motors '. . . . . . . . . . i .
Great Northern Pfd.... 119 120
Inter. Harv, N. J.v.v. rl1$ 113',
Kennecott Copper 46 43! 4
tehlah'R.vR..... ...... 7656 78
New-York Central. ..... '103,
Pennsylvania ......... . 57
Ray Consol. 20
Southern : Pacific V. .4 . . : 964
Studebaker i. ...... . . M 135
Tennessee Copper ..... 33 J,
Union: ; Paclfio . 135J4
103
572
20
97
137
34 ;
136J,'a
84
'76
..93
58
V; 8. Steel:;.t a.T.T.83 (
U. S. Steel Pfd.;,...' J17,
Western Union
Westlnflhouse'
;92
j. 56'
Bid. : fEX-dlvidend. Unquoted.
-'SUGAR.' 1
SAN FRANCISCO, -Cat, June 25.
Sugarr' 86 degrees test, 6.40 cents.
Previous quotation, 6.175.
SIX WEEKS AGO
(Auoriated Press by Tdel Wireless)
OSHKOSH, Wia June 26. Aviator
Niles, the well-known American flier,
fell a thousand feet during a flight
yesterday and died this morning. He
was married aix weeks ago to tucilte
Goddard
I isianas.
CONFERENCE UPON
HAWAIIAN VILLAGE
TO BE HELD TODAY
- -1 i
At 4 o'clock this afternoon in the
office ,Tf -the commissioner of public
works, a..cohference of the Promotion
Committee, Outdoor Circle, City Plan
ning Commission and Land Commis
sioner B. G. Rivenburgh with Chair-
man Charles R. Forbes of the public
works department, is scheduled to be
held relative to the proposed Hawaii-
an village.
This afternoon the public utilities
commission is making an inspection
of the plant and properties of the Ho
nolulu Gas Company, as a portion of
the physical valuation the commission
is to make of the company's holdings.
Following, the establishment of the
French .cencorship at. Saloniki the
Greek government has suspended com
munication with Macedonia,
KILLED; WEDDED
HT Toward Mexico
Railroads of Country Notified
to Expedite Movement
of Troops
WAR DEPENDSNOW ON ;,
WHAT CARRANZA REPLIES
Administration's ; Blame on
Mexico Stfenfjthened By
Morey'sReport
(AsocUtd Pmi br y4rl Wblt)
EL PASO, Tex June 2CApparv
ently reliable information has reached
El Paso that Villa has reached an
agreement with the de facto Carranxa
government and this is use ?to In
duce hi followers to join the Carranza
forces. ; - - " - . - -
SAN ANTONIO, Tx June 26.
Notts found In the pocket, of , Capt
&oye" contained a copy of a otvsen
by: the authorities of Carrizal, giving
the U, 8. troopa permission to pass
through t ho town en a peaceful ml.
sion. One note waa found from Gen.
Gomez, Inviting him to enter the town
tO COnftf, i '', .v ;:. f
Twentv-two of the-Americans In the
arrixai. fight, are atai , unaccounted
for, ' . .
. WASHINGTON, D. C, June 28A
virtual embargo on commerce between
the United States-and Mexico pending
thev outcome of the; present crisis s
plannid. i - i--'. ,.:
The South 'and -Ceatral American
f spubtica haye withdrawn their offer
of mediation. Secretary Lansina said
It 'war yntf m'ely. - They cnay' renew )t
1,cNWVORK. N. Yw-June 26-Naf
tional guardsmen have been ordered
to entrain tomorrow, !in addition to
the8 already noted, from Florida, Vlf
ginia,N! Maryland, j New Hampshire,
Maine, tn District or coiumoia, Kenn-
ytvanla and Delaware ;
. 9- -"
j WASHlNGTQNi P. C Jnnn
26.Vitlv war between the United
States fai exico ddpendmupon
Carrahta's reply to. the demand of
the Vjiiited States for 4the release
of jthemeHcaa prisonersyat ChJ
huahiia.uoitlcials of the state and
var departments are preparing for
eventualities.' . "
The (reply from Carranza. is ex
pected today and meanwhile thduf
sand? jirid'tenstof tliousands of na
tionaj -guardsmen are starting toj
warcl the: Mexican border.
' The United States insists upon
the trrntfediate and unconditfonal re
lease bf the 10th Cavalrymen cap
tured "rfn the; fighting at Carrizal
last week. '
.The . president has arranged a
posstbie joint session of the two
houses of Congress later in - the
week which he may address after
receiving! Carranza's reply. :
.'Mediation by the Latin-ijmericah
countries, is not seriously consider
ed, it was declared in official cir
cles today. It is not believed that
any possible form of arbitration cart
meet the present situation.
The report of Capt. Lewis Morey,
Troop L, 10th Cavalry, upon the at
tack by the Mexicans, strengthens
the administration's stand that the
Mexicans were to blame for the
Carrizal battle and its results. The
administration is prepared to ask
Congress to authorize a military
censorship, and the war department
is speeding mobilization of the na
tional guards and of such regular
troops as are available. . '
In the event of war it is planned
to patrol the border by means of an
aero service.
TfflEVINO CONTINUES TO
THREATEN AMERICANS
CHIHUAHUA. Mexico, June
26. On the heels of the evacuation
W American troops of the nearby
towns of San Geronlmo and Ba
chinaba, they have been occupied by
Gen. Trevino's troops. Trevino has
also issued orders that any attempts
Of Gen. Pershing's men to return
south will be forcibly prevented.
THOUSANDSOFMEN TO
BE RUSHED TO BORDER
NEW YORK, X. Y.f June 26.--Besides
. the national guard organi-
; Continued on page two)
. .. ., , .. . . . . ..
lii favs
MAY COMPROMISE tO NGSHOR EM ENS STRIKE. .:'. : 1 ;
SAN FRANCISCO. Cal, June. 28. Ther la a possibility that the long,
shoremen's strike In Pacific Coast porta make be settled, by compromise.
TRANSFER OF HARBORMASTER UNDER CONSIDERATION. ?
.' What starteUut to be a tame meeting of the boird of harbor commis
sioners this afternoon was very Interesting at 3 o'clock. At that hour the
board nad just fctimmoned Capt, .Willi am R. Foster, the harbormaster; and
Cait.I, A. MadienvterritariaT pilot, for a ; conference regarding a possnle
transfer from Kahuiui (o Honolulu of Capt H. Parker, Harbormaster at
', the former port JChalrman Charles R. Forbes said ne favored transferrin?
Parker here aad Vending Capt John F. Haglund, territorial pilot here to:re
j llete Capt Parki r. -JTorbes , espeelall y fa vored the transfer, ftpr' tha. gpod
of the servicer. I-'a Statement made id two other members of! tha board
present, Thomas Church and W. H. McClellan. . J. ': t. " . ' ,
v BICYCLE SMASHED BY. AU TOMOBILE, RIDER UNHURT.v r -t
r Tom Akasl bwtowIj escaped Injury shortly after 3 o'rloc this after.
' noon when a bicycle which he waa riding was struck and smashed by autci
l mobile. Na .520,; registered as belonging to the Honolulu Cutlery and Grind
ting Company." .V ' ; '-' -a : "r
-The accident occurred at King nd Alakea streets. 'ga3i waji riling
. down .Alakea, past King, on the. righ t hand . side of . tha street ". Then th e
y automobile . came around . the corner .a nd struck ; the bicycle- Prompt action
on the part of the. driver of the machine .prevented wbat might . have
been a serloue accident .. He stopped the : machine , after, -its;' Tteht l.frbat
wheel had passed over the rear Vhsel of the bicycle, pinning, Akasi to the
'street v-v.""-: : - -,r:-? -rpfv
- No arrests were, made by the
accident ;waa-,due to. carelessness, ' . ; - -rV i -rv V':; -''J:.
"v :
J. LIGHTED STUB SETS FIRE TO POSTOFFICE f AWNING. V;
the. postoffice awning oyer the 1I ey way between 'King : and Merchant
streets .caught., fire, this .afjternoon an d: was put out '.with r1lre extinflulshera
. by postoffice employes but. not until the entire canvas' had een destroyed.
The;fire' crew at; the .Central station waa not called; until the? Are aras out,
lbuf Chief Thurston reports that 4hei bla?e,was caused by a cigarette or cigar
stub thrown from the windows of . th e Commercial Club In the McCandlesa
buQding adjoining: .Thechlef say a there ha been' objectlbp wbefore from
tha postoffice authorities about thls!p ractlse.: i 'v;i '.v
t ;-1 - - s - : t tt i'U r- '-:;r -'V-..-t t: i tfi-M
- ; ' War zone victim telcs experiences. ; ; -t
t 1 8.. Wtent whi a-ae a
Marn, swhlchwa. sunk r November. 3: in the. Mediterranean "Sea, s r;Hoho
J lulu as second mate of the'-CJlna Maruv.and tens', the. story of ibe-dlsaster.
: -According to Hitanl the Tasakunl lef t Gibraltar-the rooming of, November
2. v At 4 r 40 that kf ternpon a aubmari nerjioye in slgh and -fifed; into them
v Captain Kanieada iatopped ,,the .ateani
.isbip's boats and started; towards. the
..they left the iteamer wjas plOwn an.
- VBJCNK dpi MAWAIt' DECA
.c Dividend' of i Ver cent la to.be iAW'brifoBttef&:Wkw&VitWXb9'4fr
,ond ,qoarterf this yearvxTbe dividend for the fifat Qtfartef iraA 2 per cent.
f, which, makes', the . bait year 'disbursement 5 per ceat r The action bt the
'directors in making the declaration affects (only .the .uartef 1 which- is' Just
vending and future earning will determine the -quarterly dividends that' may
hereafter be decjared-i' .:-Utitfgr
.' - - i-V i' V t ' 'f ' v V
Chicago White Sox Also Defeat
f 5 Cleveland and Are Tied
vvTSh senators
AJMeitt4 Ptm t. r4UWirli)
PHILAUKLPHIA, Pa, June 26:-?-By
winning two games from the Quakers
today the Braves Jumped .into second
place In the National League -.race.
The home team did. not show the. hit-
both games the SUUlng .contingent
n . n M..ll.ntn u. wvlMMin Tvtfim
.Cleveland today the Chicago team
caught the descending. Senators, and
New York retained a lead on first
place. The scores of the games to
day were as follows:
National League.
At Brooklyn First game. New York
11. Brooklyn 8.. Second game, Brook,
lyn 2, New York 1.
At Philadelphia First game, Bos
ton 5, Philadelphia 1. Second game,
Boston. 9, Philadelphia 5.
At Cincinnati Cincinnati 5, St.
Louis 4. '
American League.
At Cleveland Chicago 6, Cleveland
2.
At Boston Philadelphia 8, Boston 5.
At St Lonis SL Louis 1, Detroit 3.
NATIONAL LEAGUE.
Won. Lost Pet.
Brooklyn 53 20 623
Bostorr 28 23 349
Philadelphia ........ 30 25 545
New York 2S 26 500
Cincinnati 2S 31 475.
Chicago 27 31 466
Pittsburg 25 28 472
St Louis 25 37 403
AMERICAN LEAGUE.
Won. Lost Pet.
New Tork 34 23 596
Cleveland 34 25 57
Detroit 33 28 541
Boston 32 28 533
Chicago 30 28 517
Washington 30 28 517
St. Louis 23 34 404
Philadelphia '...'18 40 410
Sam Kahale, who is accused of bit
ting his wife in the eye and also on
the nose Saturday night at their home
on Vinayard street near Camp 2, was
sentenced by Judge-Monsarrat this
morning to serve 30 days in jail.
From Rome. comes the news that
the Italian named Quariai has invent
ed a device which deflects torpedoes
from their course and explodes them.
It Is said that the allied .fleets are to
be supplies with. hU Invention.
At A Glacce
traffic policeman,; who stated "that the
errand the erf w; of 42:ot 'Into the
coast
ES
After Meeting of Rnance, Com
mittee -Supervisor Logan'-:
Says CoptibrGoii;
-The paper deficit of 3P.OOO ibowi)
by the auditor's figures a few; weeks
ago has been, wiped out' anhdunced
pr Arrica. Fifteen. Jhrnutes artery ti v: waneaq snA:tniorse.TMr'rne5,?.Ycnvre-'ift iti-l nfciit cf it.'' .4 V
. s. PEft CENT. iw vlnENfii ''h:j! li-; M!r uic inaorsernenrox rtugnes.vf:;.r. .r v." Vrt,':
DEFICITWIPEfl
OUT, HURICIPAt
SttV GtEAtlSUP
i
with the mayor this nooa.e.Bu- ."-pSSS
pervlsors will discuss. the hildget; fori iiS!J?lLt2Jps
the coming half year tonight' and thjmn? SiSL artProiderr ridSy
commUtee spent a Busy hour- and' a:f eaf Te tr?P?'
coming half year tonight' and the
. . . . . W -
half in talking over various Jtema or
the proposed financial pro grani of.the
cy. ' .; :v ..
"There have been several addition
al sources of. revenue not. counted by
the auditor revealed during the last
few weeks.: explained Logan. -' First
the city wiir have $15,000, or about
that amount' coming from the public
utilities that now. pay aT.2 per cent
tax to the territory. . About 120,000 in
delinquent taxes has been.' collected.
Of $20,000 appropriated for the water
Investigation commission only S6I0O
has been spent leavTng'a surplus of
$14,000. There are various otherom
paratlvely small sums, coming to the
city. We are not at all in the serious
condition that some of the alarmists
predicted."
The budget this year will be about
the same as last, he declared. The
road department will have the same
amount to run on; tbe band' appro
priation will be cut but little; there
will be a few salary raises, promised ,
last year
priatiens necessary for permanent im
provements, such as the electric light
station and automobile fire engines.
There will be no salary cuts.
Tue program for-tonight Includes a
rushing through first reading of the
budget, as well as a general discus
e ion. This Is necessary in ' order''- to
have It in effect by July 1. If changes
are thought advisable later they can
be made on second or third readings.
Construction work on Hakipuu road
win be finished Wednesday night Oil
ing will start the next morning and
when work is completed on the ditch
es R. S. Chase, who has had 'charge
of the work since It started last No
vember, will be out of a job. "
Seven "crap" shooters, arrested yes
terday, were fined 5 each, in police
court this morning.
John. Nlboa of Hilo. was; fined 115
by Judge Monsarrat this 'morning for
refusing to pay for a taxi 'ride. - . - ,
coLiMLLs
LEttriS'P.::-j to'FrclrESsr.ni'rn:! Cczr:lt:3-f.:un
,; Fcrtstst-Cy TulId Sent Cy G::rg2 C:rt:r to il L C.
fMUt4 Ptcm airlf
t. . CHICAGO; llU Juhe 26Cbt. K run as the
Progressive; candidate for' president In1 he camplitjii of 1916 , .
.' He has cprne'out squarely ,in support of.the Repubfican candidal j
Charles E. rfugKesl ' :V'- ' y-i--- -"
- A letter from Col. pooserclt Was read today before the Progressive
national cxirjtrnittee in'; session here. 1 lii it the Colbner finally declines
the Progressive tipniination, to which he had already given "conditional :
refusal on the' eenirig of Hughes nomination and his own. He strong- ;
ly urges the support of Mr. Hughes to secure the.defeat of Pfes'wUnt X
Wilson, Pilose administrattoa he characterizes as the most incorrrpctcritr
since that of l5uchanah.
-y He 'lauds Ijughes'and declares that the "Republican platfprm in
cludes "many :Irogrcssh-e planks,- .t' - " .': ; . . , 'k -;
Xews of C6V Roosevelt's action was forecast this' tnorning; before :
the' ari:ivir:ttie' press despatches; in a marconigram 1 received from
Ex-Governor. George R Carter at Chicago. ; Carter went .to Chicago
to attend the-national committee meeting, holding the proy of Natldn.il
Committeeman Atkinsdn.' ; In; his, message garter"; said that he belj evell ,
thVrbgressves sHou!4;pu the "country atove personalities, ;,incncatif4; i
(hat hetthotight; Hughes should be supported 'b'the Progressivcvartdi '
intimatingthat.Roosevert: would refnse to- run. f;IIe tasked :ifl tfeVmet .
wUhAtkmson's fagreement
At a meeting, held this morning. the
Atkinson saiX later.th.it' there uai Hvlrtuall no alternative foe ihe
m mwimmi
. .'.---t , -.: ,
directors of the Hawailan. EHectricr for electric ncns cooklnx aad 6 cenu'
CompanyLtd decided, to reduce the i for sign lighting were .estaillshed. '
maiimum 'rate for . electric ; current These reductfoni are la aCcQrdancfl
frg 10 cents to $ cents per kilowatt with the general policy cf the ''com
hour. The nev rate takes effect July pan, said General ManierF. E.
1. ThU makes the rates; for lighting X ,Blake. rwhlch ife to glra ctutoraers
cents and- a cents, according to the good service at reasoaabls rates;, Tha
quantity nsed, while the power rate Is increased patronage , we ire receiving
on a tlldmg quantity.. scale from; 8 makes these reductions possible We
cents to 11-4 Cents per kilowatt hour, valne the confidence of the public and
The optional rate, . which . benefit appreciate, that they; a well as- rur
small motor Tiaers, waa' also reduced stockholders, are -interested- la t!ie
from 7' cents, and ; 5 cents -'to 5 cents progress and policy bf our'company,,'
GERMAN, OFFICIAL
r CABLEGRAMS :
I T1
conquered . an armored fortress ' : in
Taiaumon t and advanced beyond fur
ther conquered larger fort near vil
lage of Finery ' and; gained terrain
south of fortress of Yaux. .
, Up to now.r delivered c td J-aHylni
points. 273 prisoners, among whom
are 60 officers. The rest of the front
shows particularly. lively artillery pa
trols and flyers are active.
Near Hadmont a French single sea
battle areoplone was brought down in
an air combat., Near Blamont Lieut
Mint gene shot dwon a French biplane,
which is his eleventh aeroplane.
East front: Hussian-attacks north
of Illuxt and north of Vlosy were re
pulsed. German air squadron attack
ed a station in Polocxany, southwest
of Molodeczno, where transports baa
been observed.. A railroad establish
ment . In Luninlec was likewise
bombed.
lmsingen s troops .advanced teyonJfna "" r savanting,. ?-
vrr.r.T
tacks failed. . , Number of - Russian
I .a - . m
prisoners is sieacuiy racreasmg. 1
Bothmer's army: Only small com
bats between, advanced posts.
chamber.c'ofImittee
will report later:
0np0merenebill
Aepresentatlves of the steamship
and railroad lines of the territory at
t-tidivi m mpotfn or th trrrio - anil
transportation committee of the Cham- lon9 ef 20 mllta. r The lta-'
ber of Commerce this morning and Ifn vigorously f eilewing up theL- ,
discussed with it the provisions of the dvantafle r : i -V
Pomerene bill now in Congress that r-', - .' ; V -" .7 V".'. -r T -affect
the business of the Islands. The f : ; PARIS, France, June A- Gtf ;
measilre provides for a uniform bill man.. " trench between '. Fumin and
of lading. - - I Chenoie wooda, on the Verdun ectaf,
Exception was taken ey several of
those present to various sections - of
the bill and the committee agreed to
report their "views" and' leave the de
cision as to- the chamber's recommen
dations in. the matter to the meeting
of the membership Wednesday afternoon.":--
. , T . " f- '--; -
mm
It Federal VTlileMi n - . ' . .
i -i -s
rrf.
and'4 centsirand baw 9fp
German Attacks : at 'Stockhod
: River Said to B& Droken-t
- in Heavy Fire . .
(AMeUt4 Prw kf faWtt Wirtav V
" PETROGRAD, Russia, ; June
The Russian cavalry . frcis afUr,a
battle havs occupied a posltieit neatr
Pezeritt five milea weit of Kimpo-
iung. , j
LONDON, Eng June Z$-Offieera
arriving : at Kiev, Russia, from the
front and whose rt porta havf been
cabled here, . describe r the brtaklnj
down of all . German attieka at tha
Stockhod river by the Rustlane- The
German reserves : were hurled . back
me uerman prisoners eempare tne
Russian gunfire to an Inferna of ahot
and Shell similar to that wtilch.ia
torn the Verdun line for many weeks.'
:' ;f-
BERLIN, Germany June 2SThere'..
is much fighting activity today en the
British part of the west front and en
the north .wingi . of. ths French,' line
For the last two days there,' hai bffn ;
Important activity at ( these points. .?
:;. --y.-;"";' r.';
'. ROME, Italy, June WTherVje' V
general retreat of the Auetriana taV
i ' ... . - t. 1 '
.'.ln9 Pc mw on the Trentine sector,
was captured last night by the French.
Today there la a hsavy artillery;
duel In progress West ef the Meuse. ,
, . . o m ' ..
:i JoetReyes' is 1 accosed". of ' s?": ,V
liquor in Iwllel without a I!c:r.s? r
was arraismed thT3 r.":, r
he tHei -Jr. 2.
iTnnritTTlY w
Mill
sissifLis
