"W?!PHW
ffrp
iipiiii,iijiiLi;,rO)iii'jipiiii
pppwiipwpppp
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. 1T.-NO. 245
If
II
i
IT
&
GREAT ALLIED
DRIVE STARTS
ON ALL FRONTS
Italians Smash Strong
Austrian Defenses;
British Attack
RUSSIANS BREAKING
INTO TRANSYLVANIA
-
Slavs Bring Immense Re
serves Into Action to
Reach Kovel
FIGHTING IN THE BALKANS
I
I
Jnfantry Actions and Bombard
ments Reported From
Salonica
ROME, Juno 2G.
The capture of a dozen Austrian
positions on a wide front wns an
nounced in n supplementary official
itatcment tonight, reporting the
Italians making amazing progress in
heir new offensive.
LONDON, Juno 26. Every surface In
dication today pointed to tho beginning of
tho lone-expected Buperoffenslvo of tho
Allies.
Breaking out with a torrlflo Bmaah
against tho Austrian front, tho, Italians
drove the Austrlans back yesterday on a
front of moro than IE miles. They recap
tured seven positions taken by tho Austrian
Crown Prince In his recent drive In tho
Trentlno, Including'-the row of strongly
fortified works resting upon Aslago. Gen
eral Cadorna Is reported to bo driving homo
this new offensive with Brcat power.
At virtually the name hour that tho
Italian rush began, British artillery broke
loose wlth a battle ring attack n gainst
German trenches from tlio La Basseo Canal
southward to the Sommc. Both the British
and Carman official statements comment on
the violence of this attack which in certain
sectors approached tho Intensity of the
drumflro that precedes an Infantry blow.
Tabs' far no word has reached London of
the beginning of the expected British In
fantry attack.
Dispatches from Berlin today reported
that tho Russians. Instcnd of being dis
heartened by their temporary check In Vol-,
oynla. aro bringing Immense numbers of
reserves Into action and have renewed their
Vigorous attempts to reach Kovel. In tho
southeast the Slavs have cleared Bukowlna
ef vthe enemy and are entering the passes
.of the Carpathians.
Today the Russian War Office announced
that Russian troops had crossed the Car
pathian Mountains, driving back the Aus
trlans who endeavored to defend the passes,
and had broken Into Transylvania, thus In
vading Hungary, This is tho hardest blow
dealt to Austria In the whole war, for dur
ing the first Russian offensive the Czar's
forces had reached the Carpathians, but
had not been ablo to enter Transylvania.
Reports that Rumania Is displaying mili
tary activity, coming" from German sources
today, coincide with other dispatches that
the pro-Ally party at Bucharest is urging
Rumania's entrance Into tho war.
Moreover, dispatches from Salonica say
that Infantry fighting of a severe and vio
lent character and Intense artillery activ
ity are In progress at several pojnts of the
Balkan front '
itimtm
c .
NIGHT
EXTRA
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, J UN"ID 20, lOltf,
Conimiir. 1010. st tiii Pcbmo Ltrxitt Cnupint.
FIRES AND MASSING MEXICANS
THREATEN PERSHING AND 3000
MEN MARCHING UPON AHUMADA
Pershing Said to Be Moving Eastward
and Northward, Ready for General
Attack Guns Trained on
Jaurez Posts
Carranza Leader Ousted Because He Failed to Fire on
Americans in Matamoras District Trevino
Promises Forces En Route the "Same
Dose They Got at Carrizal"
COLUMBUS, N. M., June 26. A new danger was menacing the
Pershing punitive column today. Mexicans were reported starting
great brush fires to the south, cast and west of the American line in
an endeavor to force a withdrawal to the northward and halt any1
menacing move. The fires arc reported to be particularly dangerous
to the extreme southern end of the line.
c
TO THE BORDER
Silence Follows as Men
Realize They Will
Start Tomorrow
MANY FROM THIS CITY
GO TO SERVE NATION
s
UICK NEWS
BOSTON t -..
000000032
PHILLIES 010,0 00000 1
Jtculbnch uinl Gowtly; IUxey nutl Klllefer.
0 1
4 1
First, Second and Third
Regiments Get Com
mand to Leave
3300 MEN WILL ENTRAIN
WASHINGTON, June 26 In event of war with Mexico no vol
unteers will be called for until the National Guard organization ia
completed and the men all on the border. This was the opinion ex
pressed by War Department officials today. They said it would be
useless to call for volunteers when all available equipment is being
absorbed by the organized militia.
EL PASO, Tex., June 26. Reports that Mexican soldiers and
civilians had destroyed the American consulate in Torrcon on June
18 were officially denied today by Mexican authorities.
.
LAREDO, Tex., June 26. General Alfred Ricaut, Carranza
commander of the military zone extending from Matamoros to
Nuevo Laredo, has been removed because he refused to order his!
troops to fire upon Americans who crossed the border last week. He
has been succeeded by General Naferrcttc, who is notorious for his
hatred of the United States. . Railway service betwcenNucvo La
redo and Monterey will cease tomorrow by order of the Mexican mil
itary authorities.
General John J. Pershing, with 3000 cavalrymen, te reported from General
Jacinto Trevino's headquarters to be moving northeastward, ostensibly to give
battle to the strong Carranzista garrison at Villa Ahumada.
The Mexican forces, heavily equipped with artillery and field pieces, aro
being drawn up to meet tho attack.
Carranzistas from Chihuahua City are said to be advancing northward
toward Villa Ahumada for the purpose of joining the -troops thoro to' repel
any movement
The plan of campaign appears to be that, these forces, after flanking
Pershing's men, will move toward Juarez to meet a possible 'expedition from that
point under General Bell.
Dispatches indicate that General Pershing is moving almost his entiro
Contlnntd on Tate To. Column To
SMASHING ITALIAN OFFENSIVE
GAINS LOST POSITIONS; ENEMY
DRIVEN BACK ON 15-MILE FRONT
HOME, June 26,
A vigorous offensive which has been
launched by the Italians, is winning back
much of the territory lost during the
Austro-IIungarlan drive on the Trentlno
frontier.
Lieutenant General Count Lulgl Cadorna.
cMef of the Italian general staff, In a
dispatch to the War Offlce today, said:
An encrgetlo offensive has been
undertaken by the Italians. The enemy
has fallen back over the entire front.
Italian forces have recaptured a num
ber of positions previously lost to the
' Austro-Hungarlans.
Austrian troops have begun a general
Ktreat on the Trentlno front under a
nvwhlng Italian, offensive, It was officially
Wnounced today.
The Italians have captured Austrian posl
Uoni at Castlegomberto, Meletle; Mont
"ugara, Galllo, Aslago, Cesuna and Monte
Cengio,
The Italian gains are the most Important
made by General Cadorna's armies In a
ingle attack since the Hrst few weeks fol
wwlng the outbreak of he Austro-Itallan
War. The Italians are driving home their
ffenlve with the greatest vigor, taking
"vantage of the withdrawal of, Austrian
woops to meet the Russian offensive.
The hardest blow was struck against the
Awtrlan centre, which invadecj Italy In the
ent Austrian offensive., Here the Italians
j?k enmy positions on a IJ-mile front,
UWng Monte Ctngio and Cesuna. southwest
m Aiiago. the Aalago positions and the town
f Gallic, nvfl mllea southwest of Aslago.
The Austro-Hungarlans had fortified their
Wptured positions strongly, but the works
Tre battered to pieces by the Italian guns.
4ne official statement Issued by the "War
Wee la night follows:
Between the Adlge and the Brenta
M artillery activity Increased, yeater-
CeaUaaea on Vt Tour, Celuma JTlrt
BACK HUGHES,
TEDDY URGE
PROGRESSIVES
'Turn Wilson Out,' Says Col
onel's Letter to Bull
Moose
GUILTY OF SHORTCOMINGS
"Dig Sticks" in Roosevelt's
Plea for Support of Hughes
"Mr. Hughes is beyond comparison
better fitted to be President than Mr.
Wilson." ,
"I earnestly bespeak from my
fellow Progressives their ungrudg
ing support of Mr. Hughes."
"It ha3 become entirely evident
that the people under tho existing
conditions aro not prepared to accept
a new party.."
"As regards Mexico, tho situation
which Mr. Wilson confronted was
nothing like as difficult aa President
McKinley confronted at the time of
the Spanish War."
"Mr. Wilson and his party have
failed to safeguard tho interest and
honor of the United States."
"No American can have any feel
inc except scorn and detestation for
those professional German-Ameri-cans
who seek to make the American
President, in effect, a viceroy of the
German Emperor.
"We owe all our present trouble
with the professional Uerman-Amer-fcfi
elcmSnt in the United States to
Mr Wilson's timid and vacillating
course during the last two years."
"There must be spiritual ana in
dustrial preparedness."
Engineers, Field Ambulance and
Hospital Corps Respond to
Call to Duty
WILSON PLAN;
S1
QUICK
QUELL
President to Go Before
Congress Unless Car
ranza Backs Down
FUNSTON READY TO ACT
. in lnnA 26. Theodora
CIUCAUU, 4H-, . -- -,,--
noosevelt came out squarely for Hughes to
day In a 't,er ta ,he "sresslve, Na,
lon'al Committee, meeting here today, he
ure the Moose to get behind the Itcpub.
Hcan .nomine and turn Mr. Wilson and the
Democratic Administration out of offlce. He
aecllne. to run against Hughes.
abandon their convictions, he says, but these
conviction can oe iufi.,. ?""
in Hughes than by supporting) third party
ticket, wntcn o- -
tno - ijMiniipnflnn. ha rhnrirM.
Tho present -"--- "-" -..--
.nt.. Vinrimmlmra mora sir.
'has beep, ulli v """' "-
pal than those of any Administration since
tho days of Buchanan."
As W " """ -'
By JOHN EDWIN NEVIN-
WASH1NGTON, June 20. President
Wilson will place the cntlro Mexican sit
uation before Congress nt a special Joint
session to be held on Wednesday nt noon,
If General Carrnnza falls to reply to the
President's demand for the release of the
Americans enptured nt Carrizal.
Whether the President nt that time will
ask for a Hat declaration of war on the de
facto Government of Mexico or will sug
gest passage of a resolution, such ns was
adopted at the time of the Vera Cruz Inci
dent, permitting hm to utilize the armed
forces of the Government to enforce the
decrees of the State Department, has not
yet been decided. The legal authorities of
the State Department today are consider
ing this question. Congress will follow
any plan that the President suggests, the
leaders said today.
A double responsibility for the Carrizal
battle appeared partly established today. It
dW3 not however, place such a burden on
the American forces as to assure peace.
Onla complete right about face by Car
ranza can save the situation, it wa3 said.
Jhe report of Captain Slorey. as he lay
supposedly dying on the Carrizal desert,
Indicated to officials that the action of the
American force before Carrizal might have
been provocative.
Morey wrote that Captain Boyd was un
der the Impression that the Mexicans would
run when the Americans fired. "We formed
for attack," said Morey's report.
On the other hand, the publication of
the American demands for the release of
17 American prisoners from Chihuahua
showed that Carranza liad issued the order
to General Trevino not to permit the Amer
leans to move south, east or west
This would place upqn Carranza the re,
sponslblllty for the Mexicans nrlng and
perhaps prove the necessity for Boyd'a of
fensive. The Administration expects the Carranza
reply to Its latest ultimatum, demanding
the release of the troopers now held pris
oners at Chihuahua City, not later than
tomorrow, rresent indication are teat Jt
5
Ceato4 a. Pw rr. Celunw 0
Cootlnacl sa rt Two, Celoma SIt
By CARL L. ZEISBERG
Evening I-tdocr Staff Correspondent
HEADQUARTERS, CAMP BRUM
BAUGH, Mt. Gretna, Pa., Juno 20. The
1st Brigades of Philadelphia, consisting of
tho 1st, 2d and 3d Regiments, today wns
ordered to entrain tfimorrow for tho Mexi
can border, it wns nnnounccd officially by
Major General C. M. Clement, at noon.
With It will go the engineer battalion, half
of which Is composed of Philadelphia men;
Hospital nnd Amhulanco Company No. 2,
of Philadelphia, and the field battalion
sjRnal troops. Tho total forco la estimated
at 3300 men.
Tho order which was transmitted to Gen
eral Clement from Adjutant General Stew
art, nt Harrlsburg, was foreshadowed by
a long conference between General Clement
nnd Brigadier General William G. Price,
Jr., of the 1st Brigade, at brigade head
qunrters, to which General Clement hurried
In an automobile after a telephono conversa
tion with Adjutant General Stewart Tho
red military rond to Fountain Head Field,
where the brlgado Is under canvas, was
fairly burned by tho commander's automo
bile. MEN' VACCINATED.
As soon as tho order was flashed to tho
headquarters of the medical corp3 nearly
every medical officer In camp, under Major
Koerper, U. S. A., was rushed to tho brlgado
camp, wnere the men of the thrco picked,
regiments were cxam.ln.ed, Inoculated with
typhoid prophylactic nnd vaccinated against
smallpox at tho rate of a man every two
minutes.
The engineers, signal men and hospital
and ambulanco corps were rushed through
tho Federal physical tests.
So far as possible tho engineers, field
ambulance and hospital corps to accompany
the 1st Brigade will be selected from Phila
delphia troops. This will depend upon tholr
readiness for service. No orders have been
issued.
Tho formal transfer of equipment from
tho State to tho United States also wns
rushed at breakneck speed "by Captain
Kemper, U. S. A., chief mustering officer,
nnd Colonel Harry C. Trexler. Deputy
Quartormastor General, hurried tho Issu
ance of new equipment and arrangements
for transporting tho troops. An all-night
strain faces the officers and men.
No definite time has been fixed for the
depnrturo of tho troops.
"As soon as possible tomorrow" Is the
cry ns the heart-breaking task of moulding
an army over night Is attacked.
The three infantry regiments will entrain
at Colebrook, which Is tho station nearest
their camp. Here, too, the ambulance men
and Blgnal corps probably will entrain.
Tho engineers will leave from Mt. Gretna
station.
JUBILATION AND SILENCE.
High Jubilation reigned In the dun tents
of the chosen fighters when the news spread
that they weie to face the Mexicans. There
was a mighty burst of cheering. They had
expected It. So had every one else. But
the reality of It was stunning and the
pyschologlcal reaction was to shout und
yell and roar.
Then suddenly, as If some vast Invisible
hand had been laid over the tented war
riors, a hush fell over the field. It was
logical, too, that they should, become silent.
It was sobering.
Jaws squared where a smile and a shout
had been on lips a moment before; deter-
Continued on 1'uio Tuo, Column bit
BOSTON d o.lti
PHILLIES
ATHLETICS...
BOSTON
r
BRAVES TAKE
PHILLIES r h o ' o
Pancroft, sn 0 0 35 0
Niooff, 2b 0 0 'i' 2 1
Stock, .lb 0 0 0 3 0
Cravath, rf 0 0 3 10
Ludcrun, lb 1 2 13" 0 0
Cooper, If 0 0 10"
Paohcrt, cf.. 0 0 s, o 0
KiHcfcr, c o ,2 2 0
Kiscy.p 0 0 0 ;' o
Ecndsr.p 0 0 0 0 0
Good -00000
Ocscliccr, p 0 0 0 0 '0
Totals i -1-27 15 X.
t rl .
FIRST FROM PHTLS
ROSTON r h o a e
Maranvillc, ssl. 1 0 4 1 1
Evcrs.2b 0 10-10
Pltspatrick, rf 1 2 2 ,0 0
Magcc.lf 0 110 0
Konctchy, lb 0 1 0' 0
J. Smith, 3b 113 3 0
Snodgrass, cf.' 0 o '2 0 o
Gowdy.c 115 0 0
Rculbach, p 0 0 1 2 0
Erjan 1 1 0 0 0
Hughes,!) 0 10 0 0
, Totals 5 9 27 11 1
' i
AQUEDUCT RACING 7FSITT.TK
Tirst r.icr, fillicr, 2-ycnr-oMs. with F.R0O ncWcd. l t-2 furl'mie
Leonie, 100, McCahay. 7 to 1, 5 1o 2 and even, won; Slty. 1 12. Keo;rli.
D to 1, 2 to 1 nnd '1 to 5', s?con:l; Hu3sy, JOG, FhilliliKO. 7 to 1. 5 to 2
nnd 6 to 0, fiivrt. Time, M 2-5.
HAMILTON RACING RESULTS
First r.tcc, Canadian Plnte, O-yctiv-olds nnd up, foaled n Canada,
purse $600, 1 1-16 miles Shrovetide, 112, Burns, $4.50, $2.30 and
$2.10, von; Alccto, 103, Pickens, S2.30 and $2.20, second; Blrdlnml,
03, Gray, $2.40, third. Time, 1:52 4-5.
SENATE DEBATES AID TO GUARDSMEN'S KIN
WASHINGTON, Juno 26. Senator Chamberlain of Oregon,
chn.ii mnu o he Military Affairs Committee, picsented the amended
military drafting icsolution inoviding $50 a month for guardsmen's
dependents as soon as the Sinate was called to order at noon today.
He obtained unanimous cou&ent for its consideration to the exclusion
of all other buslncbh,-
WARRANT SERV
NI3W YORK, Juno
contempt of that body
Snowdcn .Marshall. Ho
a writ of habeas corpus,
before It. To Assistant
paid: "You had better
It can."
ED ON MARSHALL; HE DEFIES CONGRESS
2G. A warrant of the House, of Representatives charKlng
was served today upon United States District Attorney H.
immediately went beforo Federal Judgo HunU and obtained
Thu District Attorney defied Congress to make him appear
SerBCint-nt-urms Gordon, who served the warrant, Marshall
tell tho House of Representatives to get the best lawyer
I3RITISH CRUISER HITS BAY STATE TRAINING SHIP
NEW YORK, June 2C Tho Massachusetts training ship Ranger hna been dam
aged in collision with u British cruiser about BO miles from this port, according to a
wireless dispatch received toduy. Vessels offered assistance, but the Ranger was
able to proceed toward port under her own steam.
TWO ITALIAN WARSHIPS SUNK BY U-BOATS, VIENNA SAYS
VIENNA, Juno 26. The torpedoing of two Itulian warships In the Strait of
Otranto was announced today by the Admiralty.
Tho Italian Admiralty advised on Sunday that the Italian 'auxiliary cruiser
Cltta' dl Messina and tho French torpedoboat destroyer Fourche had been sunk by
an Austrian submarine In the Strait of Otranto.
DYNAMITERS FOILED
IN N. Y. POSTOFFICE
Nine Sticks and Bomb Planted in
Building Found by
Watchman
NEW YORK, June "9 Ap attempt to
blow up the postofflce In the Federal Building-
was frustrated today. Nine ttlcks of
dynamite and a dynamite bomb wrapped In
papers, which were on fire, were found this
morning by a watchman, on the first floqr
of the postofflce. The bundle was found
Just before the office had been opened for
business. It lay on the floor near a storm
door In the fsouth side of the building- and
not far from the stairway
Watchman Harris' attention was at
tracted by the smoke from the smoldering
wrapper of the explosives. As soon as he
had put out the fljeand saw the, contents
pf the package he notified the-notice.
Inspector Bagen. head of the Bureau of
Combustibles, was summoned and after ex
amining tb package, found it contained
enough explosive force to ba,Ye wrecked the
bull dims
EARL OF SELBORNE QUITS BRITISH CABINET
LONDON, Juno 26. Tho Earl of Selbornc has resigned the presidency of the
Board of Agriculture, according to an official announcement last night. He will
make a statement In tho House of Lords Tuesday. The general belief Is that he
resigned on account of tho Government's Irish policy. Ho haa been a &trong
opponent of tho homo rule policy. Other Conservative resignations from tho Cab
inet are rumored.
GERMAN AVIATORS "BOMB" THREE FRENCH TOWNS
PARIS, June 26. An official communication says: "During tho night of June
24-25 German aeroplanes threw bomb3 on Lunevllle, Baccarat and St, Die. The
material damage was unimportant. Some children were wounded at St. DJe, This
has been noted with a view to reprisals."
HUGHES PLANS CONFERENCES IN NEW YORK
BRIDGEHAMPTON, N. Y., June 26. Rain kept Charle's E. Hughes Indoors
all day Sunday at his summer home here, except when he attended services In the
morning at the Presbyterian Church. Mr. Hughes had no callers. Today ha will go
to New York to continue his conference there with Republican leaders,
1619 NOW HELD IN ENGLAND FOR IRISH REVOLT
DUBLIN, June 20. A statement issued by the military government regarding
prisoners taken In connection with the recent rebellion in Ireland says that the
number interned In England Is 16H men nnd 5 women. It adds: "Convicted under
the defense of the realm act, 160 men, 1 woman; released from Richmond barracks,
Dublin, and in England, 1100 men, 71 women."
BRYAN WANTS WILSON'S SANCTION TO ACT AS ARBITER
KANSAS CITY, June 26 Bryan wll not Immediately consent to be one of three
men to attempt an arbltrf.tlo . of the troubles between the United States and Mexico.
Such a movement should have the sanction of the President, Mr, Bryan said.
POSTAL 'RECEIPTS FOR TWO QUARTERS BREAK RECORD
WASHINGTON. June 26. Postal receipts for the last two quarters broke all
records. a8gregatlne I84.S64.447 for the quarter ending December 31, 1913, and
79.699 623 for the quarter ending March 31. 1916. Prespects are that the total
postal receipts for the curren fiscal year, ending- June 30. will exceed tho receipts
tor the last banner year, 1914, by from U5.000.000 to 120,000.000.
PRICE 02ST1S CICNT
NATIONAL ADS
DEFINED ANEW
BY KINGSBURY
Telephone Publicity Expert
Links Idea Up With Na
tion's Aims
EXAMPLE FOR MEXICO
Says U. S. Should Publish
Reasons for Martial Action.
"Look at Europe"
N. C. Kingsbury Argues
for National Advertising
N. C. Kingsbury, vice president
of the American Telephone and Tele
graph Company, urged that people bo
made ncnuaintcd with nil motives
and policies of political, administra
tions by means of system of govern
mental advertising.
Said it was duty of Democratic
Administration to tell public its in
tentions toward Mexico. Said people
have right to know reasons for
"chasing tho bandit."
Declared every article produced
for consumption of human race
should be advertised. Every cause
affecting humanity, ho said, should
have same treatment.
Potency of national advertising
was demonstrated by the speaker
when ho said that during a five-year
national advertising campaign tho
American Telephone and Telegraph
Company gained 2,190,904 new
stations.
A powerful plea tor a system of govern
mental atlvortlDlng which would educate the
people concerning motives and policies of
political administrations at 'Washington was
made this nfternoon by N. C. Kingsbury,
vice president of the American Telephone
nnd Telegraph Company, at tho general ses
sion of tho 12th annual convention of the
Associated Advertising Clubs of the World.
Mr. Kingsbury's subject was "The Na
tional Advertiser."
Ho enthusiastically Indorsed national ad
vertising, saying that In a five-year na
tional advertising campaign the American
Telephone and Telegraph Company gained
2, 103, 064 new ntatlons.
The Interest of tho great audience of ad
men, bankers, manufacturers and merchant
was raised to a high pitch when he used
tho Mexican sltuutlon as an Illustration
of the need for the advertising of govern- .
mental policies.
"We nre In trouble In Mexico," he said.
"It Is necessary that some policy be adopted
which will protect the people living along
our southern borders In life and property,
What shall that policy be? It Is the duty
of our national Administration to decide;
but It Is Just ni necessary and Just as much
the duty of the Administration to advertise
the reasons for the decision as It Is to make
the decision.
"Wo are so closely bound together In this
country that we have the right to know
the alms and purposes of the forces which
nre chasing a bandit, and It Is necesrary to
advertise thoso alms aifd purposes In ordo?
to secure our cooperntion."
"NATIONAL ADVERTISING."
Here Mr. Kingsbury told what "the war
ring nations in Europe have done In the last
two years to convince their own people, the
rest of tho world and "supreme forces" that
the Individual causes for wnr In each nation
were only Just and righteous ones. He said:
"It has been a mptter of great moment to
each of these Governments to convince the
people of the United States that each of the
bevcral national causs3 Is the righteous
one. And how have they tried to do Itf
Those Governments, ns you very well know,
have all advertised. They have bought
newspaper space, they have. Inspired maga
zine articles nnd. have sent out news slips
to Individuals. Could there be a more
striking example of the universal need
for advertising? This certainly Is national
advertising, with the accent on the na
tional.' "One of the objects of national advertise
Ing Is the formation of public opinion.
There Is no autocratic government today.
No government on earth would dare to
enter upon war without feeling sure it
could In some measure justify the act In the
court of public opinion, and that Is the
reason for the tremendous Investment which
has been made In the advertising propa
ganda of foreign governments In this
country.
"National advertising secured the Pan-
Contlnurd on Puse Twtlvt. Column Thrte
Reading Church Calls Pastor
READING Pa., June 26.At a congre
gational meeting tn St. Mark's Reformed
Church here last night a call to become
pastor was extended to the Rev. Gustav
A. Poeltcr, of St. Mark's Church, Easton.
Pa., to succesd the Rev. F. C Nau, who
left here, to become pastor of Grace Church
Pittsburgh.
THE WEATHER
GOVERNMENT FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Fair
tonight; Tuesday untetlled with, pro6
ably thunder showers; moderate m
peraturts; light, variable winds.
LOST AND FOUND
GOLD IIAH FIN. l "ltd upvnirtt and prl.
lost Jun 10. ul Waikuakr or Urcad SI.
SWitan. rrtl Keturn ta H I. &uot
ojllortleultur AjnWr I
CBHTlFK'ATBlWl i t)r. PbUadtlpbU ElSS
tile Conpant to ttat nitnol Jaeob Lu4y Jot
or U)1UM AvDlktteB b fca nuda tat
UK crU8tat W WltU-i 4.uior,
401 UI Cumauwm.ettk Rld(
BAK PHI--Ian jib aidir. bar via hi uE.
four toareuun a4 toot clauunte la Hoj.
maker' J vin H Kvijd U rnR,
SJS-S Angora rra, ff jjr
Utttir ClaaaUM Ad 00 Vulffu i ($
I
m
ci,
wi
'HI
n
