THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-dty and to-morrow; rising tern
perature; southwest winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 70; IffljPkt, 61.
Detailed weather, mal and marine reporttfffaftMl.
IT SHINES FOPs ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 300.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, JUNE 26, 1916. Copyrlpht, 1DI, by the Run J'rintino and VubUaMng Automation.
PRICE$W
WILSON TELLS CARRANZA ACTS ARE DELIBERATELY HOSTILE;
DEMANDS STATEMENT OF WHAT COURSE HE PLANS TO PURSUE;
NEW YORK STATE TROOPS MAY START FOR BORDER TO-DAY
OTKENTS.
i
MOREY, FACING
DEATH, TELLS
OF CARRIZAL
His licporl Shows That the
Ainorii'iin Troops Ex
pectod Ambush.
W1FK GETS MESSAGE
SAYING HE IS SAFE!
.. Antovio, Tex., June 15. On.
Funi'm ha received n report from
n-n. Tifhlnc In transmitting n
rr"rt written by Capt. Lewis f.
Merey at Carrizal, Mexico.
Mr. Morey, the Captain's wife, who
l)v. In Attstln. received this evening a
-.'re!'" message, which is reported to
have rnme from her husband reading:
"Somewhere In .Mexico Am back on
th pe with two men safe Sidney."
Mrs. Morey said her husband always
sends mesages to her with his middle
.UU..U inwi.ini, r uncoil
nor Gen rershlng has received any d-'
virc from the front to show that the ;
Captain ! safe. On the contrary, Gen.
IrsMn?'s report mentions that Morey
believed to be dying when the troop
ers who were with him left the Captain
to convey his report of th" Carrizal bat
tle lo Petidilng'a headquarter.
f'npt. More' Mnutnue,
Gn Fumton's report follows
"P.-shlnc reports from Colonla Pub-
Ian June 25 fallowing message written rled up from guard headquarters with
by Capt. Morey shortly after Carrizal written orders for the company com
k,,.i. i i .v v.- . , ... manders of the First and Second Field
b.ittle. found In the hands of three men Arlury nml ,.o First Cavalry, now
cf Troop K, returning from Can iJial and , encamped at the park, to be prepared
ent to Clio Krederlco by Lieut. Mever: to break tamp and tret under way thli
rnmia . ici . .Mine "l. imi.. 't l ..
A, M.
" To commanding officer OJo Fred
rlco. 1
""My troop reached OJo Santo Do.,
m'.two at 5 :3fl V. M. June 20, Met ,
Troop C, under dpt. Hoyd. I came
ur.dtr Capt. Hoyd's command and
marched my troop In rear for Carrizal
t 415 A. M. Iteached open field to
southeaat of town at fi :30 A. M. f'apt.
Tinyd pent In a note requesting permls-
una to pass through town. This was
re.'jsed. Stated we could go north but
M east.
r'apt. Ttoyd said that he wa going to lng nights Jut past tie men were not
Abumada at this time. He was talking . compelled to turn m when taps were
I sounded, but were allorvveii to stay out
w tii Carranxa commander. Gn. Gomez i0or!( until 11 o'clis k
i. nt a written message that ('apt. Hoyd ('apt. Olmstead, whi seemed to be In
could bring his force Into town and have very great hurry, irtde for his racing
, . ., . , . car quickly after dltrlhiitlng written
a onference. Capt. Hod feared an am- (opi(,H ,)f ,,. r(,,.t , , ,
I , n He was under the Impression that , reply to questions the Captain w ould only
't.s Mexicans would run as fooii as we say that the orders fere lo the effect
flft.,l that the men cneampfi at Van Cortlandt
'Park were to "be prt'iiied" to move nt
rnrmn.l.H, f..r .tltnck. 7:36 o'clock this mnrJng He could not
say, he added, w hilar or not they
ue lormeii ior aitacK, nis inicniion
h' 'g to move up to the line of about
' '" Mexlcms on tlie edge of the town,
f . mcd Tri'P c on the left In line
' siriiiislieis, one platoon of K troop
ci rent of line, and another K troop
rut' on on extreme right and echeloned
i ' t'lo to the rear. When we were within
VdiiN the Mexicans opened tire, and
'."iK one, before we fired a shot,
Uii we onetied I'ji. Tin y did not mil .
b , 1 1 niaWe a long account hnrt, after
si 1 ' hour's lire lioth troops
h-' ad aiiied. Troop C lo position of
Mivl a , in.u lilna guns ami K troop
'vine . slightly to the left. We were
'rv bnv on the right keeping off a
r ' i"a- k A group of Mexicans left
town, ,mt around our rear and led our
Tor.... ,ff ai ., gallop.
A ai.'Hil 1 u'llock one platoon, Troop
wh n was on our right, fell back
-aid he could not stay there.
' i ii f.ll hark l.ooo yards to
'-'. and 'ogether with some of
'. nho wrre there thee men
I v,i llahtly wounded
H' i ' h mail lo'.d me, wis killed.
; w.i heen nf Lieut Adair after i
so ,he man I k.w stated, I
a i hiding In a hole L',000 yards ;
ie Ibid, and have one other
r.d thiee olher troopers with ,
Moiikv, Captain.' " 1
ten. I'erhlnu' Cooiinenl, t
nml nj nn Morey's letter Gen
" i c sjkI in his despatch ;
I
by Morey I
e men referred to
i who isd above mjsaK,. in their I in all ptr's of Hie nuntr. Gen. Wood
"on The wounded man was from I "lioiid'd boards of Inspectors to pur
, ' shot through lhe knee chase 1,000 hcr-es for the cavalry mills
snot inroiisii in. Knee. ! n New Vork, New Jerse and Massachu-
e it !.-t teports that the three j ,,.
ierr raiher ii ize,l an to where thev I The woik nf medicnl Inspection of the
't I'api Morey, but staleil that inllHIaineii by army surg on was started
I
'I
h,l
-l. nlglt of lhe 21st Ihev had carried " , ' V " ",K 0 i
, ,, ' plleii oi.iii lo "work da.v and night
' 'to miles; that .Morey became I until the task is complete! " In order to
. eouiri go no fin I her and told them ', l.atin Die departure nf the trisqe, mov
b - ..!m ! lng to d iy lhs nspecllon may be waived.
'I.- men thought he was djlng rro, S,""'h "''", w 'nspeeie.1 by
i, , , . . , ' 1 armv igenns vesteiday
f b.nod and la. k of water Mevio j (, l0 v,45 .H, ,.v,.,ng Governors
' onoiired twent miles east of Sani.i Island w.n. compaiatlvtiy quiet At tliat
f i out found nothing Out of grain '"'"r " '"essagn came In over the lelo
" '.rng, for horses l bid nhape N" "" ' aiitliorlty would say
r.Jd i return." CuntlHitrd on Hrcoiul I'tiui.
STATE TROOPS
START AT ONCE
FOR RIO GRANDE
Urgent Call From "War De
partment Rets Plans
Ahead Two Days.
MIDNIGHT SUMMONS
STIKS THE CAMPS
National Guard unlt, comprising at
Ient six regiments made up from those
now In readiness In New York, New
Jersey, Connecticut and Massachusetts,
will entrain for the Mexican border to
day. The formal orders for moving are
understood to have been communicated
to department commanders. Thin will
be the first central movement of troops
for the South since the mobilization of
the mllltla began,
Order were given last n!ht to the
Fourteenth I'eglment. the F.rld Hospital
t mill l-'it'li! Anilml.inn Corn nnd thp 1
Tw - nty. - ,cr,n(, Knglli-eis to move to the I
border to-day, eecording to a 1'eeksklll j
;''Txf von ..nits h.fh in tuoh-j
aMy fecfWo order to-tlay to start
nre he Slxt.v -ninth. Sevrnty-tlrt and
Seventh regiments of Infantry and
Squadron A
It was originally Intended to send the
1 ftrt troops (m Wtdn.sday. but an urgent
call from the War I Vpartment, received , ,.,,.
I last night at Governor Island, et the "1 I l.l.xr.
I plans ahead two days, Nooillclal state
' ment was made at the i"land last nlKht,
but the tension under which Major-Gen.
. Wood and hi staff worked up to the
i early hours of th! morning indicated
clearly that tli border movement of ,
troops would be hastened Materially.
A low racing car whined Into Van '
I Cortlandt Park between I" and 11!
' o'clock Inst nlcht aiid from the car
! Jumped Cant. Ubnsteadi lm had hur-
30 o'clock.
...
llnnsed l llimle l ull.
Taps had already been soumled and
many men had turned hi others had
been granted leave to ft home for the
nluht n the understarfllrig that they
be bark In i.-imp earl) ihl morning, j
Some of the men were Hill enjoying tlie j
cabaret inus!'' and he '.UMir es of soda
along the new "white tav wnicn na"
ome Into being In the neighborhood of I
llroadway and SIM "treet since tlie
Midler arrived recently.
Hut Capt I ilnisiead' visit cau-eil a
second sounding of luiglfs. which brought
i soldiers within hearing dlnauce back to
camp on the run, all .mtlous o learn tlmj
ri-iinuu ior ine iiiiiHu.n ...ii. i
would be moved,
Militiamen were Immediately detailed
' to round up as man as possible of the
men who were Ignoritit of the new order.
Lights Ixgan to .irjf.ir where all had
been darknes and fill the ramp was
stirring with the ne nrtlvltv following
Capt. Mmstead's arval with the orders
i At midnight the work of mustering
1 Into the Federal sirvlre the member"
of the First Field Allllery was begun.
Pirt'-rvenltil fip Orders,
Things were golilr the even tenor of
their way In the rfinorv of the Forty
seventh Infantry, Jinoklyn when at 11
o'clock a message was passed around
the hall that broiiplt the men to sudden
life 1
The news was Jrihvlouly Important
I.ieut -Col Harry; S H.ildwln Issued
orders for the Imtedlatc assembling nf
. the regiment. MiesengelH were des.
patched in everjj direction to secure
the return of alirnt otllcers and men,
nnd every effort tas made to get them
! tosether Immedlayly.
i It was whlspjred about that the
, orders were for lhe regiment to start
for the border, (not Camp Whitman,
I Immediately Nf definite Information
was forthcomlnfl from tlie men, and
I l.leut. -Col. HaliT'ln referred nil In
quirers to biK'ad headquaiteis. He nd-
mitted. however that the message was
unexpected and Important.
, J',- TJoX.
,lm, nil the routes have been chosen by
rail 1 lllltll I V f I iilOK.IOlils no,. - nir.-o
made with ifynrnl railroads, Gen.
Wood last niht was in telephonic
coinniiini. 'i: ton fivllh the roniniauders of
the mllltii In several coast States, nota
bly M.iSKichusdts and Connecticut
Itsiris ren hlng Ceivernon Island
from Ii ladeli'il.i said train were be
lng run out of the city every hour with
Kupplles and rqulptnent for the militia
TEXT OF THE PRESIDENT'S DEMAND ON CARRANZA
FOR RELEASE OF I 7 AMERICANS CAPTURED AT CARRIZAL
WASHINGTON, June 25. The following telegram was sent to-day to .Inmcs Linn Rodgcrs, special representative of the American Govern
ment in Mexico city:
Mr. Arrcdondo' yesterday delivered to this Government the
following communication:
"I am directed by my Government to inform your Excellency,
with reference to the Carrizal incident, that the Chief Executive,
through the Mexican War Department, pave orders to Gen. Jacinto
H. Trevino not to permit American forces from Gen. Pershing's
column to ndvance further south, nor to move cither east, south or
west from the points where they arc located, nnd to oppose new
incursions of American soldiers into Mexican territory.
"These orders were brought by Gen. Trevino to the attention
of Gen. Pershing, who acknowledged the receipt of the communi
cation relative thereto. On the 212d inst., as your Excellency
knows, an American force moved eastward quite far from its base,
notwithstanding the above orders, and was engaged by Mexican
troops at Carrizal. State of Chihuahua. As n result of the encoun
tcr several men on both sides were killed and wounded and seven
teen Americans were made prisoners."
You are hereby instructed to hand to the Minister of Foreign
Relations of the de facto Government the following-
"The Government of the United States can put no other con
struction upon the communication handed to the Secretary of Stnte
WILSON TO CALL FOR'
250.000VOLUHTEERS
"
Will um Apponl Soon After
War Hcirins. Acconllnir
to Finns.
OF CAMPAIGN i
i
Washington, June :S. The plan of
campaign which the Cnlted States army
will pursue In c.e nf war with Mexico
Is understood to call for ISO.Oln volun
tiers m addition to he regulur army
and the State troops. It l said to-night
that the President will lue the call for
volunteers within a brief time after the
outtireak of hostilities
The campaign In a general way will ,
then te cnrrled on In two distinct phases.
First will come the establishment of an
effective defensive destined particularly
to protect the border while the State
troops and volunteers nrc being brought
Into shape.
Second will be whit nrmv officers de-
scrio.i as ine - i leaning up phase or the
.unpalgn. when all l readv for the
elorkllkc advince calculnted to sub-
Jugate spi'edllv the countrv. This latter
phase, It Is explained, would probably I
nu -tart In earnest until autumn.
"The main Idea of the nrniy plan."
ald one 'ranking officer to-night, "will
lie the domination nf Menln nt fbe mini.
mum pr.ee in American lives"
The preparations which the army has
m.irio 10 cam on the war on a larir..
and raiefull.v plannid scale will make
the cost many millions more than It
would be If premature efforts to em.nih
through were followed, but the cost Is to
receive second consideration compared
to the saving of lives.
To rnlrt I'reelnllniiey.
It i said that there will he no tend
ency to precipitate matters unduly re
gardless nf popular clamor, and thoie
In charge of the armv will turn a deaf
ear to everything except the mature
plans mapped , The iirt months of
the war are llkelv lo be more a Kittle 1
ngaliist disease, tropical heat and Insects
than against Mexican troops, according
to Hi m.v olhrers
I if course'iirecaiitlons will be taken to
protect Gen Pershing's troops nJreadv
in Mexico and to guard his lines of com
munication, hut this problem already
oiuei i tireiov
nas neen wrmtlni with and solved. It .
is explained ine protection of the
. . .... . . ' ..
r Z' r.r LZ 1
KtaVes'of MexVcuId tnVneS
ment of American fmces on Mexican
soil contlgu ii- to the boundary, lint with
this accomnllshed nnd Gen Pershing's
furies safely Intrenched the chief con- 1
vi,i...uiiro, ..in i. .,. ,.r.,.iFA f..- ii.a I
eral advance by getting the State troiqin 1
and volunuers plivslcallv 111. Immune I
fro., ilKeni... mi.l irnhuil .tltel.,.,1 1..
Ollliers point out that reports from
varlotis Stat. show that the grit nd ,
the willingness to fWht nre universal '
inroiiKiioui ine .-xnuonai iiiiaril, nut pny-'
steal lltness Is already a problem which
must be seriously considered. In many
cases Stnte troops, coming from various )
walks of life where their duty was
rhleflv Indoors, were imnbln to march .
even to their mobilization camps without
suffei lng from the strain. I
i.niitr rrnliilnir Veeileil.
These troops would fare badly If siid
denly plunged Into i serious campaign
In Mexico. Several months proper train
lng will loiind them nut. It Is added, and
make a world of difference.
The War Department Is In possession
of much valuable Information from
Great Hrltaln concerning the training of
raw lecrults, the length of time It takes
lo make soldiers and the advantages to
Ih derived from waiting until men are
inorougniy iranieii nun piiysicniiy ui oe-
fore assigning I
Tlie Hiillsh re
them to campaign duty.
about six months training before they
were sent Iq the Continent The Wnr
Department believes It would lake ap
proximately six months lo get a volun
teer army In shape,
,The relative security of tho border
from attack will operate, It Is said, to
speed up the tlnal stage of the campaign.
The arrival of State troops now releases
seasoned lighters of the regular army
for duty In Mexico, and the arrival later
of volunteers will telease Slate troops
unq have beioiui' Accltiiiatf .1 and thor
oughly III.
Thnn toward the latter stage of the
campaign the regular troops, supported
by Slate troops, probably will be found
doing the "cleaning up" work, while lhe
volil(de- regiments will relieve them nf
dutv.n Die territory near th border.
national guard is found
ABOUT AS
Distressing Shortages in Equipment Pop Up at Every
Angle of the Situation
Blame System,
The forthcoming departure for the
Mexican bolder of two New York rotti-
m'nL of infantry, the Seventh and the
Seenty-tlrt, and a mrps of engineers.
the Tuenty-seiKiul, was the lu-ws of
must KHiiral Inlei.'M vrslei.lav from
the c.uv errio's Island headquarter of
Major-Oen I.onard Wood, omm.iiid
I lng the Department of the Kast
lien. Wood, haiM at work all da) with
jCol. i:iwln K. C.lenn. his chief of str,
in solving the vexatious problems, fired
at them from twenty States and the
District of Columbia bv a tardily mobi
lizing and an inadequately equipp.d Na
tional Guard, detlnltely announced that
the Seventh, the Sevi-nty-ltr.it and the i
Twcnt.v -second i:ngliictr would
Ktnrteil for Ih.i imulile frlncn wllhollt
delay If the Government supply depot
throw on high spied, other regiments
from tins and inner states in the
partment 01 ine i-.-asi win oe snumeu
southwestward in orderlv nro.'ession I
As Gen. Vt-iod plans now. the Fifth
lleglmelit of New Jersey will divide with
I ine nree ,i iors m una organiza,,. ,
, the honor of being tlrst chosen for active
!-TVlce.
j
l.lllle Heller Thnn In isns. '
stnhsemienilv lhe reiiiamlng New York
regiments that have been designated ,
for Federal nervier
.mil regiments and
command from other States will be
sent on their way When Ihey can go
depends almost entirely on how lapnuy
the detect of an anelenl eystem can
be corrected and on how great a penalty ,
must be paid fur lack of foresight i
The truth or tne wnoie summon i"
.!.. .l.ll il, nrme .leli.irl
mental commanders, the men who will b"
III,.. niMir in." .
held responsible for tne succe-s or inn-
ure of thlf, second line mobilization, are
'"IL;K IO Vu,w " " ' r ' ,
ot " '''' "rganlzatlo n. of cvr a d
,n'"' .,h" ar0 T.V, T.T. ? ,'n. .o
o.-i .on .. t.MHK- ,, , ,
haw been foreseen and provided )ears,
nKT.,rVegu arTi iv" eC ert who are
tol lng like ditch digged li crank up the
n ' luces ?nd mX' ihem run like
regular machines, are experiencing ex-
ago, reitalnly months ago
.
.. ..
".''""":' ...lo.iT. a-" .....
.. I, .A ...AI. (, lA 1 1 111.1 ...Hill,. I f. Illll
m i s ;;i;,;;,i,; lHV;.rj.,...iii... rBn..i.aii..,. n. ,i,e i..-.
t'lmn it w at the ""J'-eak ! 'nTn 1
"f ' '"'"" I " 'r''""K ''i-ui s which nil their
manders, spurred by orders finm Wash-, "'"O
"'Kton. are Iinding null nil una c.ivairy
commands nre quite "ready." except for
the trivial tact in.u iney naveii i uioiigiu
1,OIH''N' ,lial '"fiinto comniiiiids are ' jd,,,,,!, Germanv mobilized i.non.iiun men
"ready,' except for lhe furl that soiu)lM Mx tl.ty.. Fiance mohlllzejl .t.oiiii.oon
Of them tlliveilt ellOUKll IHH II Kei s III COV IT
half their men lis r. ssing Mio tai.es In
equipment pop up at every angle of ll.e
situation hats, saddles, blankeis, horses.
.
un,h "'" iurn.
Departmental commanders are being
nudged by telegraph to hurry up, hasttti
movements to the border, show results,
They learn from the newspapers that the
yar nepartmenl is priding Itself on the
facility with which bothersome "red
tape" has been cut In the piesent na-
tlonnl emergency i-r.ey nave ginneii
tne impression inai iiruioKioii mum
lno.fino men
i can be. .vankeu ovemikiit
and workshops and sent to
next dav That sort of nu
from olnces
Mexico the next day That sort of nu
iniur-sslou has been spread over the
i country. The regular army olllcers
charged with the responsibility of getting
I to the border men properly armed,
properly clothed and properly equipped
'understand perfectly the silliness of tint
, mint of view They were working about
four times as haid eslerday as vvou.d
nave been necessary nun nie eqiiiiuiii iii
of State tioops generally been kept up
Thise olllcers will nay pilvately It Is
Impossible for them publicly In criticise
the Government of the United Stntes and
the vnrlou State governments thnt the
wav the nubile has been soothed to com-
plcto trust In the perfect readiness of the
mllltla Is little short of criminal. They
will say that the newspapers nre partly
to hlamo because of the local pi hie lucen-
tlve lo pat home mllltla organizations on
the hack and tell what line, dependable
fellows Ihey are and at the same lime
omit tn point out defects In tialulug and
luck nf equipment
Tlie facts of the niolillliiatlnn lest of
the past week a observed by the legular
in my otllcers arc-that It was deplorably
slow, that equipment whldi ought to
have been on hand as a mailer of courn
Is lacking, a further cause for delay, and
of the United States on the 24th of June by Mr. Arrcdondo under
instruction of your Government than thnt it is intended as a formal
avowal of deliberately hostile action against the forces of the
United States now in Mexico, nnd of the purpose to attoc them
without provocation whenever they move from their prwent posi
tion in pursunnce of the objects for which they were, sent there,
notwithstanding the fact that those objects not only involve no un
friendly intention toward the Government nnd people of Mexico,
but nre, on the contrnry, intended only to nssist that Government
in protecting itself and the territory nnd people of the United
Stntes against irresponsible and insurgent bands of rebel ma
rauders. "1 am instructed, therefore, by my Government to demand
the immediate release of the prisoners taken in the encounter at
Carrizal, together with any property of the United States taken
with them, and to infoim you that the Government of the United
Stnte uxpects an early statement from your Government as to the
course of action it wishes the Government of the United Stntes to
understand it has determined upon, and that it also expects that
this statement be made through the usual diplomatic channels, and
not through subordinate military commanders."
UNFIT AS IN '98
Regular Army Officers
Not the Men.
that It is already app.tictit that at least
H'l s-r rent nf the National Ciu.trit can
nut 4iosldy pass the medical examina
tion our on ttuviTiuiis Island the staff
otllcers tiguie that 3 per cent. i letting
tlie ngui vu.v low iiide.-d Their opinion
is that if I'lwle -i.iin can winnow 6m,00i
tirt rute siddl. r- llrst rate b the ru.
lar artnj tits out of the militia
stien.:th of U',0'Hp he will be doing
ni ghty well
We,, IN.I,er fop .l.n.el.
The tw.. New York regiments and en-
gin.er cois, the New Jersey regiment
and the lie battel v
Kd a chance lo
inuvi' ipilci;! because they measure up
lilorM li...til in wli.it nr.'ii.. , ..iIiipum In
traluim: and eqir.-unent ought lo be tlion '"arrama has received many offers of j. The l.'nlted Stutes will not dls
any ot the olhei rganlzations volunteers for war. petitions iirrlvlnir r.,..,.iu ..,.!.n ,n.,n ,.f ti..
m the'Xtr, is'ilu'i';:.
an the StV. nth of New York Cnl Iliinlel
Applcton, now retited, Is largely
sponslbln for Us eillclincy Col Appbton
Ui-inveit forms nlnuiit and had n special
vvav ol gettliM wli.it he wanteil fot It
when be w.mt.l it 'rii.. ti. ,u 1 Vilnnel.
Wlllard C Flk. beiielits by Col Aii-
pleton s fanlight
'ractlcallv the same,
,upp) Mute , if affairs exists .,. ieuar.1-
. Sev , nt -litt. commanded by Col
William G Hates Neither the S.wnth
nor the Seventy-til st is any better, per-
hni. In peisonpel ilian the other regl -
metits. but they were a little hit leadler
lor ei vn w lien Hum were callisl
I lie l w enl v--.conil I lima of l.ngllieerAi
1 measutcH well iyt to regular aimv stand- I
aril Its i oininaiidi r. Col H. W Van
i leave l.n as, was th.. honor nun of tils
Weet Point class of nvV Tim Fifth
lteglmeiit of New Jersey has turned
praise for excellence of training ntnl com-
pi,icms of equipment, ami then- I no1T1IE t.-,,.,. i,,.
. .1 I... I.. ,. ' Til I. r ir.l II, J nil .
, tt. opinion of the regulars, than' the
Illll-l llOllllll-ei OIIIII'll in me VOIllllI. Hi
Vu!. batter, trained h Major lanforth
,)f tl. uvular armv
When Inqiilr. is apply at departlui map
, hfiuhmarteiH for un.le, standable leasons ,
1 1U1 r"--"r'!H "'" ""bllu.itlon iean. are
"l supplied with ail gineoll
rigulais take the attltiiil.' that It Isn't
,'",'r XTlW ?u ''""-'''""
11",l K.S '"" '" "'"'h '" "'" v"Me"1
' ZT'"' lnt
, , ' , , .;"'. 1
in KOIV
regular service be.ause he has earned it
under their critical rieei. speed the
Whlll Ciironeillis Kid,
vv n, u., i i.- .i.i....i. ,.
... i. .. ,, . .
It has taken ekhl days
, , ,,, , Vi.lllmll)
S(1.H ,,,, , x '"
,,., ()f ,,.,-,...,,,., , . ' ,'.',,!
their eiimps
i'here are ilful in,.i, in
,,(, Nall,llM ,.,,, , ,,. .n,.(, statw
In eight il.u ..nlv a Utile more than "1
inr cent of them have been K0 1
camp or lo moblllatlou centres and
very few of ih,.M. orcmi z.iilons ' w ere
a.hqu.iteli iquluieil
The had their rllles. v e Thete has
In en no shortage In rltles or In aniinunl-
nun Hut In many cases Ihev hadn't
me
service. The result was a perfect tur-
mn1 r notvU ,.,,,,, i,ls birkl
eoi Inin.o K K " ,"rk,IIR
eoiilnmioii -
u..r.. i .. .n.....i ...,...
it has disclosed Itself A cavilrv com-
mand ( not of this State) mobilized with
reasonable celerltv. A statT otllcer c Hied
n. cavalry commander on the tihone
"Aie you all readv; ready o move
when ordered-" b., i..ooir.i
"Oh, yes. We are ready Von can
call lie at any time
How about your horses'" '
Well I hesltallniflvl n i,h.,a,ci ,r,,i
the number nf horse we ought lo have" i
The Department of the Fast Is In close
touch with the mllltla organizations of
the Slates within lis district, all of the'
coast States from Maine to MlsslKslr.nl
ami lhe Interior S'late of Vermont,
West Virginia, Tennessee and Kentucky,
with lhe District of Columbia. Seventv-
thr"e per lent of lhe available mllltla
force nf the whole countrv muM come
fr(,,,, then. States According to the
,Ht Information, lliere Is a general
shortage of supplies that ale iiidlspen-
sable If (lie organization are I i lm sent
tn thH border Some, regiments lack
hats, mine blankets, some shoe
The other day the Government closed
H contract with two St, Louis concerns
,
CohIImikiI on TMmI 'uir.
TREVINO CALLS FOR
A VOLUNTEER ARMY
Appeal to Ropol AniPi-icnn In
vasion Pnlilislipil in Mex
ican Towns.
MKXICO CITY AHOrSKI)
rnblr nttpateh to Tur St
.MKxirn Citt, June IS, TJie Governor
' C'!illiuhu telegraphs that Oen. Tre
vino as chief of all the northern force
Can Invasion. The call I. published In
I t"n In his jurisdiction. The vol-
i unteers are to be mustered In and drilled
m soon as thev ntTer th.ir ir, m.
vlally
1 ;r:!::,lv ':r !rn .,n ,h- s"r of
inuus.iiiii inn anil Hoys
re-."''r'' drilled to-day In the wide streets
, of the capital by Constitutional!! otti-
vers. Volunteers
were parading the
Ftreets all day long with drums and
Practically all the Americans
of the Guanajuato minim? cumw h;,v.
left there for the Cnlted States say
.,,.. rHl ,' , ,
A'"-lMn arriving here from Guana-(
J'"l0' i
,
,38 CARRIZAL TROOPERS BACK.
Slileen Men, Inelnillnu 'unl.
Morey, Still Missing. I
ii r GKoiiGi: ii. ci,KMr.XTi,
fpfnal Corrfiwndtnt nt Tur Sex,
GE.V. PEllSHINO'S IIKAPQITAIITEIIS IN
via radio Columbus,
I -N' M ',u" mure men who
, 'ok part In the Cnrrlz.il arfulr arrived
i m vmlons i.iinin nioi,.. ii., ..
..,.,,.;, c
,
ui I
American communications to.d.u, mak-
of thlrt) -eight enlisted men
known lo have escaped
If Mexican figures covering killed and
men. Including C ap! Lewis S Morey of
Tr"V K- '"counted for. '
"
nTT mn
OIL FIELDS TO BE BURNED.
Ileneiinln lnek In lit. letropil
If War Comes,
imI.I l'ue Ursolic. Id Till i
Havana, June 2S- The Mexican fon-
sul here has received a Ie meseage
Informing him that c.irrauza has
orderid Gen Navanvte to tire lhe oil
tlelds of Taniplcn and for Gov Alvarado
to burn the great stock of henequln
which Is awaiting export from ucataii
,. moment the 1'nile.l Slates declares
war
LONDON SEES NO MEDIATION.
Meilcti CI ilvlees l'.iniliasle lhe
Critical Munition,
.e.-m r,i,ie lesuicA In Tin si
Lonpon-. June S.'i sludging from the
pews leaching heie fioin Mexico cltv
,,, ,,,, . ..'inounced thnt his
"" ""''I Imrdly be mote ctit-
leal than the latest Washington mes- Hired to nccept
i ic.n ilian ine latest vv ashlngton mes
sages reveal It to be.
'i'a"n Am'',',r', H regarded heie as a
r""'1'' f,"."lor 1,1 ,lu "l",',,l" There
, ''''.""J I? ,'"."" I"l;"n,rl mediation
! V ,,H,",lr "f Mexico, but the view hete Is
J"., I'l ll'llK',r of a recrudescence
of the old suspicions of the dlslnieiejit.
edness of the i'nlted Stntes
MEXICAN STEALS LOCOMOTIVE.
Tries tn Hun It Across lloriler, Itnt
Is Cnuitlil,
Ci. Paso, June
leuio i.arcia, a
Mexican, tried to-night to steal a Santa
Fe locomotive from the local yards near
the Itlo Granite, Intending to run It over
tlie railroad bridge Into Mexico The
engine ciew was at supper, but a (lie-
man, P .1. Dodgers, saw the Mexican
open the throttle. scope of Intermediary service on the
Unplug lo the cab he knocked the ,,,) f t1(, diplomats from the sninh
Mexlc.in down and lurneil him mei to ,. countries s expccled ... have a
"lZS after , ar.e, ,a, . Vr" ,V"T
Mexico needed locomotives and would ,lf '" represent Hives. Whether I.
have all the Santa IV local equipment "m "lllTire tn head nfl the ,n lu.il sub
before long, j mission of such proposals is problem-
Order to Attack Forces of the United States
Now in Mexico Without Provocation When
They Are Engaged in Friendly Mis
sion Is Denounced.
PRESIDENT TELLS
CHIEFS OF
I Will Not Go Before Lawmakers Until War Appears
Imminent Secretary Baker Hurries Mobil
ization of Guard.
VVASHINGTON, June 25. Several new development enmis tn-dny
in the Mexicnn situation. An ultimatum was sent to (!cn. Currnnzn in
reply to one received from him ndmittinp; respnnsiliility in tlie Carrizal
affair.
President Wilson at n conference in the White House kiivc ('(ingress,
leaders the facts in the Mexicnn crisis nnd told them what his policy will
be. Secretary Baker sent out orders for the State troops to hurry
mobilization and start for the border.
Demand for the immediate release of the American troopers cap
tured in the engagement has been made by the American (lovornmcnt,
with a further demand for an early statement from Cnrrnnza us to tho
course of nction he has determined upon.
The course followed up to this time compels the conclusion that tho
Administration, iinding its hands more or less tied by the slowness with
which the Nationnl Guard is mobilizing for muster, is endeavoring to
play for time.
W'liHe Mouse Conference. - - - .
Mr Wilson had a lonB conference with J"''', owever. for tin.. Latin Amr
i . , ... . 'overntnentH befote whom Pu-.s-
Chairman .Stone of tho Senate Com- ident Wilson's proposals for IMti-
mltteo on Foreign Relations and Chair- Amerlrun agreement ate pending lie-
man Flood of the House Committee on "'!vi tn,"' lusltlun to .-peak
Foreign Affairs at the White House to- aff"jr",UOh '',Tc'cl r";""1"' MeMcnn
, night. Ho gave the Congress leaders The' President U understood t he-
a complete description of the Mexican Heve, however, that the 1'iiiteil States
crlRls and outlined the courco which "'''"'y has done enough to convince
the; Government may bo expected to
follow in the next few day.
A demand was sent to 'armnza to-
!llv mt lhe eIltepn Amerlean
' "8"1 be "''" 1neJlal,1
J The saIU'nt VolaX ln the J'w-Wwfn
I P0"4"? " 'l umlorMooil to-night
after the adlournrnenl nf th While
'House conference ure;
,i,c",i,r hru tl,e
and Mexico so long ns the relations
between the two republics remain as
at present. The President 'considers
that alTiilts have leached the stage
where the honor and dignity of the
I'nlted State are deeply Involved
and he Is determined in advance of
the formal submission of mediation
proposals by the l.-atln American
diplomats to Insist upon an Immedi
ate tettlement of the paramount Is
sues U'tvveen the two Govel nments
without regard to the views of tho
representative of the Pan-American
countries
War lhe I. est Step,
2 The Presldenl does not Intend
to go before CongTes until a decla
ration of war appears to be the next
logical step for this Government.
He has resolved to proceed with
the policy Indicated in his note to the
de facto Government to-day upon his
own responsibility The President
' considers that he has acted entirely
within the limitations of his execu
tive prerogatives In making the tin-
. tondltlonal demand upon Cananza
for the release of the .seventeen
1 American soldiers Imprisoned at
i Chihuahua city
.1. The President will a-lc authority
1 of Congress to call for an adequate
J number of volunteers as oon as dip
( lomatlc means nf keeping the peice
with Mexico have been exhausted.
Many olllclal believe that thl.s
I eventuality will have to lie faced be
fore the week end and thev have
every reason to helleve thnt the
President is mentally prepared for It.
rnrrams Is XVIIIInu.
The foremost dlsclnsute of the Pie.
i,Pnf, intention following the nubll-
",P 11 '",,"nn follow Int. tin publl
catlon of his note sent to Mexico city
this afternoon Is Hint relating to the
mediation proposal which Latin
American diplomats nie exp-cled tn
submit to the State Diqi.irinieiit to
morrow'. Such proposals alrendv have
been laid hefore the Mexican Amhas.
s.ulor by some of the South American
dlplomnts and the former ha an-
Government Is pre-
them In principle.
Itiinnilo S. Nann, Ambassador from
Argentina, who came In Washington
yesterday on an Important diplomatic !
, , , j . , I
mission, Is regarded as the moving
spirit tic-hind the mediation move. It.
was he who tool; the leadership In the
A H C oonference at Niagara Falls
Tho understanding here is that the
Pan-American diplomats Intend to
exert pressure upon the Stale Depait -
'
ment to assent to .some plan of media-
,i n,ne timi iim i..vi...n, !,.......
ment nlrcudy has slgnllled us concur
rence. To-night aiithoi italiv e iliscliiMire
of the President's disinclination to en
tcr Into n discussion of the iiracticablo
CONGRESS
MEXICAN CRISIS
me .".llllllern repub ... f . ln,...e.i,.
... us iieciaraiuiiis (.r Hltrui-m and
filendliiiess f,,r all of them, Including
MCXlC.i. He 11. i..,i,l i,, -,.. ,, ,,,
I lilted Stales can o longer uv.nd the
duty of holding the de fuctu Govern
ment In .Mexico to a strict accounta
b l ty fr n m.lsl affecting Ameilcun
citizens.
Senator l.udHt. f .Ma.s.u-liusetts,
ranking P.epubllcan nieml-r of the
Senate Foreign llelatnms Committee,
a No was pn'.seut al the ciniereme to
night by invitation of ilu Pres.dent
i.epreselltallve Coper. U i.-confn.
ranking liepublican luenilier ..f the
House committee, hn.l I n i. ,.!..!
attend, hut wa out of the i i
Issue Mm J , , ,IUI.
Tin-t'oiifi remv .ii,.,i i ,, ,h iiuur.
The President tol, the m, tin r.-of ( 'on-
I urcs of the content. of 'h.
imu llll-
cation received fnuo I'mr.. .
esM r-
v . lid
M 1 1-
i! he
1 1 e-
1 ia and the Gov eriuneni
In, II I .i. ..
i' I
in.li lm, Sltll.n,,.. ,
ou nml might lequlre him w
iic.m (My or two to lay lhe mi"
fore Congtess.
Kverythiug. the Presldi in tnlk it
o.i- llu on t arranz.1 rep, t
the demand for tlie immeili.i-.. m,., s
f the American prisoners The Presi
dent also discussed brleil.v the m l.t.try
....Miiioi, mil explained that the de
tails of the Atnirlc.m mlhfirv dispos!
lions and the avail ilulitv of the Nt-
nunai Guard vveie mutter wlmi
I1"!'1 l,,fI eni rely to the Sei no m
War
'My per.-omil opiuiun ' ,nd s,
Stone a he left the White II II. -is
that the s.tuatloti i extreme , s, r i
I'or myself I do not i.,. i..w wi cm
avoid trouble I am coinuuoo th i
'.irran.a ha. ih termined i.. f r e the
iue, and if thai Is the ..i-e i . n.
Hon Ceale, is oxtremelv ,. -It.
' I fed iinw, a have fi t i. 11 e
year.. Ilul the nnlv wav i M . ri
sluiatloti will l,,. solvi il r ,r th,.
Ameiic.in aimv tn go in ami , , ,n ,,,i"
Senator Lodge and llepi,., nta v
Flood left the White Hon-, together.
Inn dm lined to I'ommei'i ..I. ihi ii ia
tlou. I'iiii-V liierleiiii VI 1 1 ,, ,, Vlove,
The M"xi an Fieli.i , g
IJov erillllelil It Mexn . r i1 x
V 1-eil Of llll -e q.S , Is ,,T II i . ,
well ti . . 1 1 t i . 1 1 1 1 u the I'.e i. nn (
lhe sii'.ji'rl ,,f ,' ,,, ' ,. ,
viit 'o Sei rel'it v Lai u I i i
nf llollllllo S N'toii. the g . n
h. I. ulor, lii ii u, i '.iid i t . i
ftom llohv l.l ,.,, ,,, , , ,, ,
noon on His, -ii Vl.e.l.o ' VI s
can ino,isstdor. into i i.' i
the Hol' in, I Jove) loin ' ' . . I
lel'dl r II good ollli es ii , , . ,,
.1 tellde would be ,li'. i jil l
Mi i n iloinlo eio , ,s. i . , ,
Hon of ihe olfer, Inn inforq..' , vl
lsler that he was without
He advised llllll tll.it he u.miI.i e
matter bnfole the Mexican lon if
flee This ,11,1 i , 0Mk. ,(sp.i'
Ksrly this morning the Vmluesi .
lelved. nut from lhe Fieelmi inn,. . n
which .mine lie takes m- -s
bill ' 'tin lhe Deisirtmetit . f In -i ,t
"J Miy'" '" di-pn i .i
Gen I'ariauza hid ie. i i.ii , . ,,
lendus of goml oillces ii
" repuhln nigm L M,i ,
1, 1,1 A,lt...l . , .
,.,'pp '. , ,tunio ,
o
' wi'e iiliiniiinl
. "Imu., '.i ." ' '
' n i it tie len.in i:mli s
' Itmtel . i illvnr. .imit ,
I i lit' who l.ol .lUo ..r i k
I n
'.HV I
I i..
.lO Ii
i.n.i.i hi good oih. i i, v
howevi Wis I i 1 1 Hit
I is I loMM lllllelll. He
Mil
111 it he i x peeled a icp i i -u. .
lo-nlght.
inh.iss.tiloi' Naoti pi i ili.i Id v . vv o
1 and to-morrow and with n t next duy
or Ivio it i evpectid lb it f it ill
i, . i of mediation tro'ii .ill
ii.f n. an icpiiblb"! ii I.
ii i fug the i hteaietieii v a. n
l t. I I o I i OlV i ' lion i i v
no know " detlini. !v 'i w
I Mllel Would be lll.lile I'll'll'
iibo d ussil'll .'lie g e 1 .i
lea plolil.iis ' I I" I'll
II
pie
. Mil
1 s
'ho
ii r.
tni r
ii. a-
b
f i
Ii
I f Hie lr,ti, f
I
