THE ARIZONA REPUBL
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNING, JUNE 2G, 191G
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 39
A IS 11 HI
CAffiAffl
RELEASE
PREON
Phoenix May Become Headquarters For U. S. Military Hospital
' I I : -
Ili EQUIP
HDSPTftL
RUSSIANS CONQUER ALL
AUSTRIAN CROWNLAND
OF BUCKOWINA IN DRIVE
-
n
I TELLS OF SLAYING
THREE AMERICANS
If the order of Dr. E. Payne Talmer
to the war department and referred to
the Ked Cross Military Relief Service,
materializes. Phoenix will become the
site of the first military base hospital
in connection with the probable Mex
ican campaign. The local surgeon has
tendered an offer to the government
to fully equip and maintain at bis own
expense a base or field hospital, pre
ferably the former and to have it in
readiness to receive the wounded or
Kick of the I'nited States army at the
first moment required.
A day or two ago Dr. Palmer ad
dressed a telegram to Surgeon General
Gorgas offering to equip a base or
field hospital. His tender carried with
it the promise to furnish all necessary
surgeons, nurses, supplies and fixtures.
A reply was sent in which it was indi
cated that under the army medical de
partment regulations such an offer
could not be accepted direct, but could
only be made through the Red Cross.
His communication was referred to
that organization.
Yesterday Dr. Palmer received the
following telegram:
"Washington, D. C, June 24, 1'16.
"Dr. Payne PaTmer,
Phoenix
"Your generous offer to equip and
maintain a base or field hospital at
your own expense has been referred
by the surgeon general of the army to
this office, which is charged with the
duty of organizing assistance for the
medical department. A base hospital
is a great and very expensive organi
zation. Its equipment costs twenty-
five thousand dollars. A description
of its organization and function is be
ing mailed. Would suggest that you
consider the alternative of organizing
and equipping a field column which
corresponds to an ambulance company
and can do field hospital work also.
"Its personnel is five doctors and
eighty-six litter bearers and other per
sonnel. Please reply if you are willing
to organize and equip one such. Units
pass umler control of the medical de
partment soon as called upon in time
of war and -are not under control of
DOUGLAS, Ariz., June 25. Wil-
liam Robertson and Tom Snyder,
American cattlemen, have been
killed by Mexicans southeast of
Nacozari, Sonora, according to
j the statement today of military
j officials from Agua Prieta. Offi-
ciuls at Arizpe have telegraphed I
t General P. Klias Calles, confirm-
I ir.g the death of A. P.. Dickson,
j a Itritish subject, who was wound-
ed in the fight with Mexican j
j cowboys in which Jim Parks, an
I American prospector, was killed, j
i The latter fight also took place t
j near Nacoz-jri, a third partipant. '
Norton Han !, now being in pri.i mi
' it Arizpe. General Calles suid teat j
Hand would not be executed bul I
j his case would be investigated by
the civil authorities. Calles is per- I
I sonally investigating the killing of
Robertson and Snyder, who were
shot while they were rounding up
cattle, it is said.
I
cattle, it is said. I
niir
I PRINCIPLE
F0RIITI1
T TO DIE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The Russians have conquered the
whole of the Austrian crownland of
Bukowina and the Austro-Hungarians
are making their way toward the
Carpathi;i passes.
Along the River Pruth, in their
drive toward Kolomen, the Russians
have captured Wilischoff and Tou
lounoff. The Austrians lost heavily
in men taken prisoner and in war
stores left behind in the retreat.
The French, during attacks Satur
day night, recovered from the Ger
mans trenches west of Thiaumont re
doubt, northeast of Veicdun, and also
made some progress in the village of
Fleury, according to a war office
communication. Sunday saw no in
fantry activity in the Verdun region,
but the bombardment on both sides
of the Meuse continued.
In the Posina region and south of
Arsiero, in the Austro-ltalinn theater,
the Italians have attacked and driven
back the Austrians at several points.
A Teutonic allied submarine has
sunk the Italian auxiliary cruiser
Citta di Messina and the French tor
pedo boat destroyer Fourche in the
Strait of Otranto, off the south
eastern coast of Italy.
ODDS FACED 01
lOTH TROOPERS
A rr A A 17 A JP A T7MI7 A T
OltitliVZ,! O i V U VriL,
BRINGS DEMAND FOR
RELEASE OF PRISONERS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, .June 25. Ignacio
Calderon, minister from Bolivia, act
ing on behalf of several South and
Central American republics, will pre
sent to Secretary Lansing tomorrow
an offer already accepted "in princi
ple" by General Carranza to mediate
in the crisis.
Mr. Lansing declined to say tonight
what his reply would be but the ad
ministration has indicated repeatedly
that it considers there is nothing in Its
difficulties with the Carranza govern
ment which will admit of mediation.
Eliseo Arredondo, Mexica ambassa-
Red Cross after they pass into army dor-designate, today notified Mr. Cald
medical service. : eron and Dr. Rafael Zaldivar, the mln-
Colonel J. R. Kean. I ister from Salvador that while he had
r: rAnA,i tia Pw.eo T;tiurv ' not received a final reolv to the i
I 1 1 11 iui ucuciai Avi v i ' -i (a. v j , - - -
Relief." . , quiry regarding the attitude of Mexico
" Speaking of his offer to the govern- j which they submitted to the de faoto
ment which he has repeated to the government through him yesterday, a
LONDON, June 2',. The Russians
have won possession of 'the entire
Austrian .crownland of Bukowina, says
Renter dispatch from Petrofrad to
day. Thev have occupied the town
of Kimpolung. in the extreme south
ern pftrt of the province !n the foot
hills of the Carpathians, the last im
portant place remaining in Austrian
hands, and with It have taken more
than 2,000 prisoners, the dispatch
adds.
Lloyd's announces the sinking of
the Italian vessel Satumiana Fanny,
of 1,568 tons gross; seventeen men
were landed.
PETROGRAD, June 25. (Via Lon
don.) Occupation of the town, of
Kimpolung. in the extreme southern
part of Bukowina, at the foot of the I
Carpathians, was announced by the
war office, together with the cap
ture of more than 2,01)0 prisoners.
Russlin troope further north are
pressing along the river Pruth toward
Kolomen, and have occupied the vil
lages of Kilkohaf and Toulokoff.
Red Cross, Dr. Palmer said last even
ing:
"Phoenix can establish at a minute's
preliminary expression had come from
his government accepting "in princi
ple" the offer of mediation. He said
notice, an adequately equipped base General Carranza in reply'to some in
hospital and be in a position to imme- j quiries submitted by Latin-American
diately care for three hundred wounded j diplomats at Mexico City had informed
or sick soldiers. I have arranged the governments in question that he
whereby I can utilize sufficient of St. j "would be pleased to accept their of
.loseph's hospital to, accommodate not fers."
leas than that number. Rooms that It is expected that there will be sev
now contain but one bed could easily eral more conferences among; Latin -
(Continucd on Page Six)
(Continued on Page Ten)
EIPEOITIOW FORCE MOVES
- TOWARD COLIIA DUBLAN BASE
PARIS, June 25. The minister of
marines announces that the Italian
auxiliary cruiser Citti di Messina and
the French torpedo boat destroyer
Fourche have been torpedoed in the
Strait of Otrano.
The Citti di Messina, which was
being escorted by the Fourche. was
the first victom of the submarine.
The Fourche later attacked the un
derwater boat, which submerged and
disappeared. Shortly r.fterwnrd the
Fourche herself was torpedoed. Al
most all of her crew was saved.
Sergeant Barnsley, of Texas, a
member of the Franco-American avi
ation corps, was wounded during a
fight with German aeroplanes near
Ear Le Due, where he was taken to
a hospital. Sergeant Bnrnsley was
wounded In the stomach by machine
gun fire from the German aeroplanes.
Sergeant Barnsley is a member of
one of several Franco-American flo
tillas organized nome time ago from
the forty or more American volun
teers in the aeroplane service in the
French army.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIHUAHUA. Mex., June 25. The
American expeditionary force which
have been in Namiquipa are withdraw
ing north to El Valle, fifty mijes from
the Colonia Dublan base, according to
information transmitted to General
Jacinto Trevino by Colonel Francisco
Borquez at Guerrero.
Colonel Borquez also reports that
some time after June 20, an American
force three thousand strong, with sev
enty cannons and machine guns, one
hundred motor trucks and a large
number of mule wagons was at Puerto
Las Varas, which is ubout forty miles
east of El Valle, and some twenty-five
miles west of the Mexican Central
railway.
Previously, he says, on June 19, onv
thousand Americans sallied to Puerto
Las Varras from San Geronimo, to
which point they returned.
In La Cruz, he adds, the inhabitants
are reported, to have armed themselves
to drive the Americans away, it being
charged that they carried away two
hundred peaceful citizens . from the
town. Eventually they let all "but two
of these people return to their homes.
Two they took away, asserting they
were Villistas. '
Colonel Borquez reports that many
'abuses are committed by the "inva
dcrs," particularly by the Apache
scouts. He says the latter often ar
rive at a main camp without prisoners
entrusted to them, and when asked re
garding the whereabouts of their
Die
charges, reply: "them heap sick,
on the road.'
Doubt exists at El Paso as to the re
liability of Colonel Borquez's inform
ation on the presence of a large body
of American troops at Puerto Las
Varas. It is possible, however, for
part of General Pershing's force to be
in this section, as it would be In touch
with the supposed new El Valle base,
and also in a position to threaten the
Mexican Central railroad.
Concentration at El Valle has been
variously reported for some time.
ReOublican A. P. leased Wire
COLUMBUS, N. M., June 25.--Eight
to one these are now said to be the
odds against which the Americans
struggled at Carrizal.
A survivor of the engagement, Sam
H. Harris, a dusky private of C
Troop, the Tenth cavalry, wa-s brought
to the border late this afternoon suf
fering from wounds in his left shoul
der and arm. From him came the
assertion that pitted against the
eighty-four men of the American de
tachment were fully 700 Mexicans.
"To top it off," said Harris, "they
bad a machine gun and they surprised
us. We approached them in a peace
ful way and never had an idea that
they would try to massacre us. Had
we known they wanted fight we could
have given it to them. I guess they
got enough at that."
Harris' troop was entirely sur
rounded by the Carrancistas, he said.
He escaped wounded from the cordon
the enemy had drawn around the
Americans by riding straight through
their line on his charger, which also
had been wounded. He rode this
horse until it fell from, loss of blood
and then nabbed another fleeing ani
mal, with which he eventually caught
up with other survivors whom he ac
compnnied to field headquarters.
Harris' account of the battle and
his escape, told in the manner pe
culiar to his race, was expressive and
colorful. Tears came to his eyes as
he recounted the heroic effort of his
wounded charger to bear him to
safety.
"T Vi ' f V. rr rt ofva oniaA tin- 1 i f '
, mi, iioiv rn.it: en i 111 " 1
he said. "I want you to know I le
him see how I appreciated it.
"Our troop, with Captain Boyd
commanding, had pulled up before
Carrizal. The captain ordered every
one to dismount and we all got down.
I was a horse-holder and I took
charge of some animals while their
riders stood at attention.
"Just after Captain Boyd went for
ward, my horses got nervous and be
gan to prance around. I missed what
was going on looking after those fool
animals.
"Next thing I knew the shooting
had started. I looked around. Cap
tain Boyd was , down and I couldn't
see him. I kept on looking. There
were easily 700 of those greasers
around us. They had come up right
out of the ground, forming a half cir
cle. Our men kept on falling.
"The first shots came from a ma
chine gun. It was trained right on
us. and believe me, it talked fast.
Every few minutes it might have
been seconds for all I know it would
let up while the operator was putting
in more dins. Then you could pick
out the clicks of th rifle fire.
"It wasn't more than two minutes
before the Mexicans had surrounded
us. We were right there in the mid-
republican A. P. Leased Wire (
WASHINGTON, June 26. The text
of the note to the Mexican de facta
government, transmitted today to
James Linn liodgers, special repre
sentative of the American government
in Mexico City, says:
"Mr. Arredondo yesterday delivered
to this government the following communication:
'I am directed by my government
to inform your excellency, with refer
ence to the Carrizal incident, that the
chief executive, through the Mexican
war department, gave orders to Gen
eral Jacfnto B. Trevino, not to permit
American forces from General Persh
ing's column to advance further south,
nor to move either east or west from
the points where they are located and
to oppose new incursions of American
soldiers into Mexican territory. These
orders were brought by General Tre
vino to the attention of General
Pershing, who acknowledged the re
ceipt of the communication relative
thereto. On the 22nd instant, as your
excellency knows, an American force
moved eastward quite far from its
base, notwithstanding the above or
ders,' and was engaged by Mexican
troops at Carrizal, state of Chihuahua.
As a result of the encounter, several
men on both sides were killed and
wounded and seventeen American sol
diers were made prisoners'."
"You are here!' instructed to hand
to the minister of foreign relations
of the de facto government the. fol
lowing:
CARRAHST
G VE STATEMENT
OF
HIS PURPOSE
" 'The government of the United
Slates can rut no other construction
on the communication handed to the
secretary of state of the United States
on the twenty-fourth of June, by Mr.
Airedcndo, under instruction of your
government, than that it is intended
as a formal avowal of deliberately
hcsiile action against the forces of
thy United States now in Mexico and
of the purpose I to attack them with
out provocation whenever they move
from their present position in pursu
ance of the objects for which they
were sent there, notwithstanding the
fact that those objects not only in
volve no unfriendly intention towards
the government and people of Mexico
but are on the contrary, intended only
to assist that government in protect
ing itself and the territory and people
or the Lmted States against irre
sponsible and insurgent bands of rebel
marauders.
" 'I am instructed therefore, liy my
government to demand the immediate
leieasa of the prisoners taken in the
encounter at Carrizal, together with
the property of the United States
t'iken with them and to inform you
that the government of the United
Stales expects an early statement from
your government as to the course of
action it wishes the government of
the United States to understand it
has determined upon and that it also
expects that this statement be made
through the usual diplomatic channels
and not thiough subordinate military
commanders'."
Demand for Release of the
American Troopers Taken
at Carrizal is Coupled
With Notification Early;
Settlement- Is Expected
WITH WARLIKE
IN
BERLIN, June 25 (Via London.T
The British hove developed pro
nounced artillery activity along a
part of the Franco-Belgian front they
hold from La Bassee canal to the
Somme, the war office announced to
day. The British fire continued un
interruptedly all last night.
(Continued on Page Six.)
ROME, June 25. (Via London.)
The official statement issued today
follows: '
"Yesterday between the Adige and
the Brenta, the enemy artillery in
creased its activity.
"We carried out a successful bar-
(Contlnued on Page Two
No More Shipments May Go
Forward To Gen. Petshing
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, June 25. Warlike prep
arations continued all along the inter-
.ational frontier tonight. From Colum
bus, the exepeditionary field base.
came reports that a fleet of motor
trucks had been rushed south to the
field headquarters at Colonia Dublan
for the ostensible purpose of trans
porting infantry across country in
eme.regencies. Lach of the trucks car
ried as a cargo a heavy load of small
arms and field ammunition.
Other reports from General Per
shing's expedition indicated that he is
disposing hi command that he may
present a compact fighting front to
any offensive the Mexican leaders
might launch against him. His line of
communication has been shortened and
CAPTAIN IRE!
REACHES LINES
SAI5 WIRELESS
(Continued on Page Six)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, June 25. A
demand for the immediate release
of the American troopers taken
prisoner at Carrizal, coupled with
a stern notification that the United
States expects an early statement
of the purposes of the Carranza
government, was telegraphed to
Mexico City today by Secretary
Lansing.
The note discloses that the state
department received yesterday a
communication from the de facto
government stating that the Car
rizal fight was the direct result of
orders to attack American soldiers
moving otherwise than toward the
border, personally issued by Gen
eral Carranza to General Trevino,
and by the tatter communicated to
General Pershing.
In reply, Secretary Lansing re
quires that the de facto government
transmit a definite statement "as
to the course of action it has deter
mined upon," through the usual
diplomatic channels, "and not
through subordinate military of
ficers." The Mexican communication is
construed, Secretary Lansing states,
"as a formal avowal of deliberate
ly hostile action against the forces
of the United States now in Mexico
and of the purpose to attack with
out provocation whenever they
move from their present position,"
. despite the friendly mission on
which they are engaged and which
is re-affirmed in the American re
joinder. General Carranza is required to place
himself on record formally, and the
plain intimation lies behind the re-
, strained language of Mr. Lansing's
communication that force will be met
with force. Apparently the Washing
ton government is determined that the
de facto government shall not evada
responsibility before the world if war
is forced upon the United States.
The note and the military situation
of the United States were talked over
at the White House tonight by tho
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, June 25. Left to
die of loss of blood and thrist, two '
miles from the scene of the encounter '
between Mexican and American troops ; president with Chairman Stone. Sen-
at Carrizal, Captain Lewis Sydney ator Lodge, ranking republican mem
Morey of the Tenth Calvary has made ! ber, and Chairman Flood, of the house
his way back safe to the American ! committee on foreign affairs. Repre
lines. i sentative Cooper, ranking . minority
General Funston received by tele- j member of the house committee, was
phone tonight from Mrs. Morey now , oul OI tne clly-
at Austin, Tex., the following message
which reached her by wireless from
the field:
"Somewhere in Mexico. Am back on
the line with two men, safe (signed)
"Sydney."
That, according to Mrs. Morey, was
the manner in which Captain Morey
(Continued on Pae Two)
I010REAIRICANSSLI
Of MEXICANS BELOW 611
Eli
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, June 25. Officials of the
Mexico Northwestern railway were
notified by military authorities In
Juarez tonight that no further ship
ments consigned to General Pershing's
troops at Casas Grandes would be al
lowed to be transported over the road.
This action was taken, it was said,
in retaliation for the practical embargo
on large shipments of foodstuffs billed
to the interior of Mexico which Amer
ican customs authorities have placed on
the local port However, In the last
ten days several trainloads of flour,
beans and other military foodstuffs and
forage have been allowed to pass
through to the American command.
Civil guards replaced the soldiers on
the Mexican ends of the two interna
tional , bridges tonight. The garrison,
having been further depleted by the
recent departure f fifteen Hundred
troops to Villa Ahumada, the Mexican
field base, 83 miles south, railway men
and others having business connections
in the Mexican town said that not more
than a few hundred soldiers remained
within its corporate limits. However,
on the American side military authori
ties made preparat'ons as though the
entire garrison was in occupancy, it
being pointed out that it Is possible
that some of the troops which have left
are stationed in the hills a few miles
outside.
Refugees Reach
Nogales After
Hard Journey
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NOGALES, Ariz., June 25. A party
of three American refugees, including
a woman, reached here today after
being detained by Carrancista troops
at Sasabe, a pass in the mountains
forty miles west of here, aid finally
being released with orders to walk
to the border. The three, . Mrs. M. C.
Darwin, owner, of a Hermosillo drug
store, Harry Hoffer, and J. C. Clary,
left Hermosillo for the border in a
motor car Wednesday night.
Clay, having been ordered, for a
reason unknown to him, not to leave
Sonora, they traveled to avoid cities.
but were intercepted at the pass, and
Clay placed under arrest. When he
protested, he said, the soldiers threat
ened to shoot him. After seizing their
baggage and car, however, the party
was released, reached a telephone and
called here for an automobile to res
cue them.
Frank N. Cox, W. M. Geary and
Thomas Hocking also arrived today.
coming by train from Magdalena. They
reported no untoward incidents.
About one hundred members of the
Chinese colony of Nogales, Sonora,
crossed the frontier today and were
placed under guard in a local hall
until conditions will permit their re
turn. They said that only about ten
Mexican families remain in the town
and that food is priceless.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, June 25. William Rob
ertson and Thomas Snyder, Americans,
were killed in a fight with Mexicans
twelve miles east of Nacozarl, Sonora,
according to information received here
today at headquarters of General T.
F. Davis, commanding the military dis
trict of Arizona. Another report late
today said a third man, John Watson,
a watchman, was killed, but efforts to
confirm it were unavailing.
The report to the military officials
stated the two men were killed while
attempting to catch horses. Whether
they encountered Mexican civilians or
soldiers or in what manner the shoot
ing was brought about was not known
here.
General P. Elias Calles, commanding
the Sonora military, has promised to
make an investigation, it was said at
headquarters of General Davis.
Snyder was 55 years old and has
lived in Sonora for about twenty years.
He owned a mine near Arizpe, abou
25 miles west of Nacozarl. When
Americans were ordered to the border
a week ago Snyder accompanied some
of them to Cumpas, it was said. He
returned to the mine, however, telling
those coming north at that time he
intended to close his mine and leave
as soon as possible.
Robertson was 38 years old and erp
ployed by Snyder. He had resided in
Mexico several years and formerly
drove a stage between Esqueda and El
Tigre.
General Calles announced that he
had received confirmation from of
ficials at Arizpe of the deaths of James
Parks, an American prospector, and
A. R. Dickson, a British subject, by
Mexican cowboys last Tuesday. Nor
ton Hand, who escaped during the
i fight and was later arrested in Nacozari
I
was taken to Arizpe yesterday, General
Calles said, in order that the civil au
thorities there may make a complete
investigation of the fight.
Although quiet prevailed at Douglas
today, both the military and, civil au
thorities have taken additional pre
cautionary steps. Extra police officers
were employed, two of whom were
mounted. General Davis ordered one
company of infantry to patrol the
streets at night. Civilian guards were
stationed at the water and electric
plants.
Squads of soldiers hurried through
the streets early today when it was re
ported several buildings were to be J
set on fire,
fires.
After the conference, which lasted '
more than an hour, Senator Stone said
the situation was "exceedingly acute."
President Wilson has felt it necessary
to acquaint congress with the state of
affairs and the action taken through
foreign affairs committees. It was in
dicated that he might desire to advise
a joint session of the house and sen
ate today but would not take this final
step until the Mexican government had
been given an opportunity to reply.
The president told those at the con
ference tonight of the hote from Gen
eral Carranza avowing the attack on
American troops at Carrizal and of the
reply that he had directed to be sent.
Senator Stone was very emphatic af
terward in regard to the demand for
the release of the prisoners. v
"We must relieve those men," ha
said, solemnly.
The senator made no effort to hide
his own belief that war virtually is
here. Final report from General Per
shing was necessary, he said, in order
that a clear knowledge of what had
happened at Carrizal should be at
hand.
"But if they are going to attack our
men without cause," he said, "there is
only one thing to do. We will never
have peace down there until we use
force enough to compel it."
There is reason to believe that the
military situation may be influencing
the administration's diplomatic course,
as well as the desire to make it clear
to the world, especially to the Latin-
Americans that the United States is
However, there were no "eing iorcea into warlike measures by
(Continued on Page Two)
Soy Prisoners Exonerate
Mexicans Of Responsiblity
Republican A. P. Leased Wire , Thirty-one rifles, a number of 'nis-
CH1HUAHUA, June 25. Coincident! tols and three thousand rounds of am-
with the arrival of six more prisoners
here today. General Carranza today
wired General Jacinto Trevino to ob
tain a full report upon the Carrizal
fight. He informed General Trevino
in his message that a "portion of the
American press claims the Americans
were ambushed."
Two of the negro prisoners. Ser
geants Felix Page and Ira L. Lloyd,
have signed a statement, it was an
nounced by the Carranzto. officials.
which substantiates the statements
made by Lem Spi'dsbury, the Mormon
munition were captured by the Mexi
cans at Carrizal.
Pasual Cescarreti, an Italian, one
time Villa agent, is enroute to the bor
der, having been expelled as a per
nicious stranger.,
Two Americans attached to the Alva
rado Mhiing company at Parral, have
arrived here on their way to El Paso.
Five others are coming to join them
by way of Santa Rosalia.
The few Americans now here seem
confident in the ability of General Tre
vino to protect them. The government
scout, exonerating the Mexicans of re- j continues to receive assurances of sup
spousiuuiiy lor me oauie. pon irom citizens.
