If l
Oregon Historical Society
''n.ni) 207 Second
fit
Ashland Grows While Llthla Flows"
City of Sunshine and Flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Llthla Springs
. "Oregon's Famous Spa"
VOL. XLI
ASHLAND. OREGON, MONDAY, JUNE 6, 1916
NUMBER 10
Ashland
Host Wonderful
Thing Is Ignorance
Auto Service to
1 Round-up Grounds I
r
"The most surprising thing to me.
about your
Ashland la
With a seating capacity of ten
beautiful and wonderful thousand people at the Round-up $
that I had never hap-1 grounds and the question as to how!
pened to hear of it before coming to get the crowds there safely at i
down here," said Mr. Noel Alyraer j what reasonable charges for the ser-1
Dew, noted English writer and lum- vice would be, the common council jj
her expert, who is making an ex- met In special session last Wednesday j
night for the sole purpose of passing ;
such an. ordinance which would as-ix
sure the successful handling of theij
people.
Cars that run for hire to theij
Round-up grounds are to be assessed
- - y 1
H fo ffi jri ifs ffi I
t jiiaurauuuai
haustive study of the timber re
sources and lumbering activity of
Oregon for the "Timberman," a mag
azine published by the timber inter
ests in Portland, Ore. "This magnif
icent monument to the human In-
Grants Pass had 600 Tickets Sold
Before Their Six-Day Chautauqua
Commenced
Scandinavians'
Picnic Big Success
Three hunlrfl sp.mrtl
J I dents of the Rogue River valley gath
ered in Llthla Tar last Saturday,
and despite threatening weather,
which finally culminated In brisk
Hull Wakes Portland
With Gaudy Shirt
Mr. Hull of Central Point, who
secured the motion pictures of round
up activities and the park crowds
here, went down to Portland last
week to have the pictures developed
j showers, carried out a merry day of and Incidentally to secure publicity
genulty, this wonderful natural park a special tax of 50 cents per seat on
made trebly grand by the hand of 'cars to a capacity of twenty, which
man, is but then you wouldn't J will give a five-passenger car an op
think I was sincere should I describe : portunity to run for $2.50, seven
the effect which your city and park passenger car $3.50, and a twcnty
and mineral waters have had upon passenger car $10. All cars with a
me." At any rate what I can't see Is ! seating capacity of over twenty will
why, after spending all the money' be allowed to run for $10 per car.
which you must have spent In build- The route which these cars must
ing this, it is not backed up with, take Is as follows: They shall keep
IV you help Ashland1 do as well?
Buy now, prices will soon advance
Present prices of J Adults
Season tickets Children, (G to 12) -
R. P. CAMPBELL, Secretary, 73 Oak St.
$2.25
$1.U0
well to the right side of East Main
street to the Boulevard, thence out
on the right side of the Boulevard
Ashland a booster for the park and i to Iowa street; thence to the right
the mineral waters. The park he
world-wide advertising."
Mr. Dew spent a day and most of
a night In Llthla Park and leaves
proclaims to be one of the most beau
tiful he has ever seen, and he has
visited many of the old-world re
Eorts. The water he proclaims to be
an Invaluable asset, one for which
the big English resorts' would pay
millions if possible.
Mr. Dew asked us If we knew that
side of Iowa street to ightman
' street; thence down the right side of
Wightman street to city limits, where
they may load and unload their pas
sengers. In returning they shall
come directly on East Main street to
Third street; thence turn to the
Benefit Dance To
Bring Pass Band
Last Week of
Queen Contest
Next Saturday night, July 1, at 10
A committee of Ashland's public-
spirited ladies are endeavoring to se- o'clock the contest for the selection
cure additional funds to be used for j of Queen Lithla and King Sulphur
right, down Third street; thence to , the purpose of bringing the Crants closes, and many Interesting develop
the left on B street to Pioneer av-
65 per cent of Oregon's population enue; thence leu on rioneer avenue
to t,asi Main street, uie maiuus
drew Its Income from the lumber in
dustry. We looked wise and admit
ted that we knew It, afterward' cor
roborating the statement by refer
ence to the Oregon Almanac, which
point.
The
distance to the Round-up
Pass band here during the Fourth of ments are looked forward to during
July celebration. The ladles have this week. The Shriners' candidate,
planned a benefit dance to be held at Miss Mary Weisenburger, at the last
The Bungalow on. Thursday evening count is in the lead with over 5,000
of this week, the entire proceeds to votes. Miss Angie McDonald Is sec-
grounds being only a small fraction be turned Into the fund to bring the ond and Miss Emma Jenkins, the
over one mile, It was considered ad- j band here from the Josephine county ' Elks candidate, third.
Is full of reliable data on such sub- visauie to nx me rates to ue emu Beu ; seat, me pians are meeting witn ; votes will be counted every day
Jects. He then remarked that of this at 10 cents each way. Drivers shall ready co-operation and a ffig crowd between 5 and 6 o'clock and will be
I ne Bungalow man-;posted at the various voting places
.... nnea annHinr raf imlpRfl Rllph CUT
number a great many wornea in tne i"
woods and In the end a big majority delaying traffic, and In such cases
of them became victims to rheuraa-j he must slow up and give the regular
tisra. gout and the like and sought , signal to pass and use all care for
relief at Colorado Springs and other j safety, etc.
resorts when right here at Ashland j Any cars operating to the Round
"they can find the very cures they i P grounds for hire, without first se
curing a license from tne city recora-
9 er, will he subject to a fine of not
seek In the east "
Mr. Dew says
that while he
rtnwn hA minnnaodlv to write only i less than $5 nor more than $25. All
about timber resources and activities, ! drivers will be compelled to have a
Is anticipated
agement is donating the floor, and ( immediately as soon as the counts are
for this evening the entire floor space made. The following have ballot
of The Bungalow proper will be used i)0xe8 at their 8tore8 and votea may
for dancing. The Bungalow will be be purchased there: Butler's con
augmented as to capacity by an addi- j fectionery, McNair Bros., E. R.
lion 24 by C6 feet, which Is now being ;Grelve( poley.8 drug Btoref Roge
built onto the north side of the build- j Br08- AtMmi Trading Co, Crow
ing. The management assures the 80n.8 confectionery, White House
ladies that this addition will be fin- gr0cery, Depot drug store, H. O. End
ished by Thursday and thus the en- erg & eQ and r it vmmpi. Th
entertainment, picnic and sports with
a spirit which no mere showers could
dampen.
The Ashlund band played Scandi
navian airs during the coronation
ceremonies. The picnic grounds were
J j gay with banners and flags of the
oL'unuiimvian countries, with Old
Glory predominating the entire scene.
Miss Stella Anderson of Medford
was crowned queen of the fest. O. N.
Nelson, the president of the society,
pronounced in Swedish the corona
tion formula: "Miss Stella Ander
son, I crown thee queen of this king
dom." Mayor O. 11. Johnson made a
profound bow to the queen, surren
dered the keys to the city, delivered
a neat little speech and sat down.
Miss Martha Raymond recited in
Swedish a poem of welcome, and, G.
1!. Mellln sang in the same language
several comical pieces. Little Mar
garet Frlswold was dressed in the
national costume of Norway when sho
sang.
The queen's court was made up of
young ladies, each of whom repre
sented a country as follows: Miss
Lena Johnson, Sweden; Miss Lena
Jorgensen, Denmark'; Miss Helma
Ellestead, Norway; Miss Nellie Frlck,
America. Miss Mabel Frohbach was
crown bearer and the following were
flower girls: Misses Eleanore Swed
enburg, Genevieve Swedenburg, Ra
niona Wise, Rosalind Wise, Marguer
ite and Bessie Frlswold, Gertrude
Adams Clara Anderson and Louisa
Adams.
All the young ladles, including the
queen, were neatly dressed in white,
.... Ml.n..n..a llAanoa vhtnh la tl.A I n .1. ...... - - -
he can hardly see how ne is going - monuui ui wumis jjiuper cau vining: will on a number of evenings
to abstain from dropping In a few' 11 tor the last six months of 1916, be used for dancing while the annex Llve fifty voteg tQ each purcIlaser of
words about Ashland. and should be obtained immediately j will be used for eats. Elg double an adult tlcket
Hp siirnrlRed us ouite a little when from Ben w. uicott, secretary oi , doors and an incline lead from the
for the coming round-up celebration.
Mr. Hull went attired In a round-up
costume and is sure waking them up
as this letter from him denotes:
Portland, June 22, 1916.
Mr. O. T. Bergner, Ashland, Ore.
Kind Friend: Well, it's a winner!
It is a pleasure to make this trip,
because I believe from the Interest
shown all along the line, that it is a
success. My outfit is so loud that
thoy could hear mo coming and gath
ered In crowds at the stations to
greet nie. No, but every sucker In
seeing distance from the train knew
there was something out of the ordi
nary In the wind. I got off at almost
every town and passed out a few
poems, and If every one didn't get
one, men and women would come to
my window and nsk for one and talk
until the train pulled out. Early In
the day I passed out a few poems in
the smoking car anil someone carried
one Into tho other cars. Soon tho
brakeman came In and said the pas
plo were asking for them, so I passed
them out through tho other cars.
They are the best ad you have, and
I would suggest that you have an
other 1,000 printed for California.
Men and women all along the line,
and even on the streets of Portland,
when I arrived here last night, would
yell out "Let 'lm buck" nnd wave a
though they knew me.
Just finished breakfast, and 83
soon as the offices are open I am
going out after them. I'll probably
get my name In the papers, but "Ish
k fret."
A policeman came up to me at tho
with only a sash thrown across their train at a small town In quets of
shoulders to Indicate what country i southern Oregon, and said my loud
each represented. The blending of shirt woke him up, and he came to
tho various national colors of red, I meet the train to see what all tba
the talk turned to his ground, the ; state, Salem, Ore.
lumbering industry. Upon inquiry! The ordinance provides that all
we hazarded the guess that there ' license fees and fines be turned over
were two and perhaps three sawmills to the Springs Dedication committee,
of small capacity running in the vl-. and these funds will be used for the
cinity of Ashland. He proceeded to general expenses of the celebration.
show us from his findings In the; "
short time he had been here that YalAUvof inn
thprp wpre six Industries working IniWWvWtOWVU
lumber alone, and added that before
he left he would find anyway ten.
And we believe him.
Mr. Dew Is enthusiastic about this
work. He had but recently finished
a survey of the entire Oregon coast
country. Associates are doing Cali
fornia and Washington and he will
eventually go to Canada and Alaska.
The information secured Is actually
first hand. The Investigators see for
Fame Spread
Ashland's tig July coebratlon Is
receiving a great deal cf publicity
from every side. Tho publicity work
which has been pursue J throughout
the past year has made yie Ashland
park and Springs Dedication an event
of Interest to thousands. The metro
nnlltftn newsnaners of the coast are
themselves, and the resultant Jata liberal In their mention of the Ash-
will furnish the first really reliable
compendium of Information concern
ing the lumber Industry of the Pa
cific coast.
Drifting back to the Ashland
project, Mr. Dew said he had received
a valuable object lesson that veryj
morning out at the government en-
tomoloKical station. Out there he.1
land celebration, the country news
papers of southern Oregon and north
ern California are exbibJi'D.; a pleas
ing neighborliness in grading Fpnce
and other publications are helping
to boost for a record crowd at Ash
land's Dedication celeb-'itlon on July
4, 5 and 6.
The following app?.i'el on the
dance floor to the addition. Every
body is invited to turn out and help
the cause Thursday. A goodly sum .
should be raised.
The committee In charge of the
fund raising consists of Mrs. J
Choate, chairman, and Mesdames E.
L. Jack, Walter Bevlngton, F. G. Mc
Wllliams, J. H. Trovost, N. W. Gor
ham, Walter Keene and Kiss Doris
Bagley.
The following list of patronesses
have accepted: Mesdames E. D.
Brlggs, Stuart Saunders, A. D. Gra
ham, Sylvan Provost, M. E. Brlggs,
D. D. Norris, O. A. Paulserud, A. L.
Strickland, J. H. Choate and B. R.
Greer.
Ten cents a dance will be charged
and everybody should drop In for a
few dances. Dancing will continue
from 9 to 11.
was shown a little tiny beetle with a front p&ge Qf the So..thern Paoiflc
name as long as tne nrst arum .i Bulletln which ,s reaJ b every om.
Hornbrook. The "bugologists told I p,oye of Southern Paclt!c;
him that this little beetle's species Ash,andi 0re p,ans tt entPrtaln at
never worked alone, but would gath- IeMt peop,e Qn r ani,
er by the thousands upon thousands, 6tne. occaslon belns tDa fprmal
eating a ring around the bark of j opening of a magnificent park, which
tree. The tree would be girdled In k CQBt the cUy 0VeP fc f)arter cf
a few hours ana woun; eventually
die. As a lesson In co-operation Mr.
Dew says he believes any of us could
gain much from' a study of this beetle.
Alumni Bureau
Gets Results
a million dollars and which provides
the setting for AshlaiJ s famrni
lithla and soda and sulphur springs,
now highly developed and placed at
tho disposal of the public.
The park is a scenic tract, right !n
the city, with Ashland creek carrying
the melted snows from Mount Ash
land through. It, with waterfalls and
lakes and fountains and drives, fr3e
auto and team camps with modem
conveniences and sanitation, chil
dren's playgrounds, rustic seats and
tables, shade, greensward, comfort
enchantment. To celebrate the open-
Rev. Carnahan Pays
Fine Tribute
Votes may be purchased at the fol
lowing rate: Fifty votes for 5 cents,
100 votes for 10 cents, 300 votes for
25 cents and 750 votes for 50 cents.
In proportion a larger number of
vntpa TY1HV Yio nhininaA ti'Kan n, ,.! na
: ing same in zu or ou cent lots than
! for the smaller amounts,
j The queen's dress will be on dis
; play In C. H. Vaupel's window to-
j wards the last of the week.
j Present standing of the candi
dates:
Queen Lithla.
Priscilla Carnahan 1,550
Emma Jenkins 5,800
Mary Weisenburger 12,750
Lillian Patterson 5,150
Angie McDonald 7,650
Florence Erlckson 4,600
Gertrude Moore 3,150
King Sulphur.
O. T. Bergner 900
C. V. Eeeler 1,800
C. B. Wolf 850
W. W. Ussher 800
H. G. Enders Sr 750
E. V. Carter 1,050
white, yellow and blue, together with
a profusion of flowers, produced a
very pretty effect.
Chester Harvey, Marcus Woods and
James Frlswold saluted with the va-
noise was about.
Poor old southern Oregon, It will
never be the same again. Some off
those who have been asleep for years
have awakened, and the dead onea
rlous flags. '
The picnic dinner was of course a "Let 'im
big success. The afternoon was glv- anyway,
turned over in their
"To Mm l.unlr '
graves.
all I
But.
hear.
en over to sports and folk dances of
the various counties were given.
The day was a great success, the
picnic being one of the most preten
tious of the many held in the park
thus far this summer.
A large number of high school boys
have received positions this summer
through the employment agency es
tablished by the alumni of the Ash
land high school. A call has been j Jng of this splendid resort a three-day
received for six or eight boys or over
sixteen years of age from the Mc
Cloud Lumber Company. The work
will be box factory work, and high
school hoys interested should see
Homer Billings, who Is at present in
charge of the employment bureau.
Get your clothes cleaned up for the
round-up at Orres'. ll
program has been arranged
The big feature is a reproduction
of the Pendleton Roundup a $10,
000 attraction under the name of the
Rogue River Roundup. A splendid
tract of land adjacent to the city
has been secured for race track and
arena and a vast amphitheatre Is be
ing prepared.
A , four hour show will he given
The funeral services of the late
Miss Cherry Starkey were held Fri
day afternoon from the B. R. Greer
residence on the Boulevard. A large
assemblage of friends, old and young,
gathered, bringing loads of the flow
ers which the departed loved. Rev.
Carnahan paid a high tribute to the
high ideals and unfailing spirit with
which Miss Starkey had met the trials
of life. Mrs. D. D. Norris and Mrs.
Earl Rasor rendered a beautiful duet.
Several score -of sorrowing friends
followed the remains to Mountain
View cemetery, where interment was
made.
Miss Stiirkey came to Ashland two
years ago from Denver, Colo., and
had won a multitude of friends, to
whom her sudden passing, when she
seemed on the road to recovery, was
a terrible shock. She is survived by
a brother, E. J. Starkey, of Heppner,
who came down to attend the funeral,
and other relatives In California.
Stores Will Close
In the Afternoons
Young men wanted to Bell novelties
at Round-up grounds and in city.
Must be rustlers. Good pay. Ash
land Art Shop. 10-2t
dally. This atractlon is In the hands
of men who plan to perpetuate it as
an annual event, and they are stag
ing It this year on a strong basis,
with that in view.
At a special meeting of the Ash
land Business Men's Association
last Tuesday night the matter of
closing stores was taken up and
thoroughly discussed. Merchants
representing all the different kinds
of business were present and partici
pated in the. discussions. The con
sensus of opinion was that there
probably would not be much actual
business transacted during the after
noons, while the majority of the
crowd were out at the round-up
grounds. Motions were made and
carried to the effect that all stores
.would remain open until noon on
the Fourth and remain remain closed
the rest of the day. On the 5th and
6th stores wotjld be open, excepting
during the afternoon between the
hours of 1 and 4:30, and iremaln
open as late in the evenings of the
last two days of the celebration as
the merchants thought practical.
Prosperity, population and pay
rolls Is the slogan at Roseburg.
i Progressive Coos county has car
ried a big bond Issue for good roads.
Looks Like No
Merry-Go-Round
The visiting children and the chil
dren of Ashland may have to forego
the pleasures of a merry-go-round
during the celebration for the reason
that the owners of same refused to
come to Ashland unless given a per
mit to run amusement games such as
throwing baseballs at nigger babies,
shooting gallery, cane racks, etc. The
general committee consider these
games a matter of skill and not gam
bling as full value Is to be given with
each purchase. Licenses for same
have been refused and an effort Is
being made to have the council inter
pret the law to such an extent that
will permit games of skill which are
pure and simple amusements.
Objection has been made to this
change for the reason that these
games lead to gambling and are not
educational and elevating; that boys
are now working in the orchards
earning money for tho Fourth of July
and that they should not be permitted
to spend their money for such amuse
ments. People will come to Ashland
for a good time and it is up to the
general committee to furnish amuse
ments such as the visitors will want
to have and for which they are bring
ing their money here to spend.
The actual dedication of the
springs will take place on the even
ing of the 5th and good speakers have
been provided, but to have all amuse
ments in the form of lectures would
be very out of place and disappoint
ing to the visitors.
COMMITTEE.
Well, believe me, Portland knows
Ashland Is going to have a round-up!
I appeared before the Commercial
Club banquet at the Hotel Oregon
grill and by special arrangement
with the police department entered
the grill unbeknown to the crowd
and fired a "41" blalnk, at the same
time letting out a "Let 'im buck'
yell, then after extending a cordlat
Invitation to the club to attend our
big celebration, I made my "exit"
with another "shot," "Welcome
Ashland round-up day." Have
walked the streets continually today,
and received many comments as well
as many promises to visit Ashland.
Am leaving on this train for HIlIs
boro to wake up that said town.
Pictures are good, and will get out
tomorrow night for Roseburg, reach
ing Ashland Sunday morning oil
"Shasta" as arranged.
I would suggest that you be surei
and have 1,000 more of the poema
printed. Everyone wants them. Peo
ple In autos even stop on the streot
to read my pennant. Have the pen
nant on my back boots, spurs, ban
dana and gun, and with the shirt
well, tlict shirt gets tho ladles.
Watch your wife when I come to
Ashland!
Occasionally when I stnrt across
tho street when an auto Is coming.
I hold up my hand for them to hesi
tate nnd I walk ahead of them. It
gets a laugh. "Nuff ced." Out of
paper. Good-bye. HULL.
Many from Here
Visit Klamath
Miss Grace Milam, formerly an
Ashland girl, had to leave the nor
mal at Monmouth on account of ill
ness. She was taken to Salem hos
pital, accompanied by her mother,
Mrs. G. W. Milam, of Gold Hill.
Estacada, Ore., Is to have a modern
cannery employing 50 to 100 people.
Several auto loads of Ashland
boosters for the Rogue River Round
up went over to the Horton ranch In
Klamath-county Sunday and attended
a picnic and rodeo hold by the Klam
ath county buckaroos. A jolly time
Is reported and the Klamath cowboys
are said to be enthusiastic over the
Ashland affair and to be coming iu
force. Much rivalry promises to ex
ist between the Pendleton and Klam
ath contingents. Some classy buck
ers and riders participated in the
miniature rodeo Sunday, according to .
those who went over from here. .
Some effective advertising for the
Ashland round-up was accomplished.
