IuJt
. 11 Mr
SBH Sd6oBbo "ab SM! CPper' n xV WEATHER-Utah: Generally Fair ill
Vn $27.00, $28.00 and $29.00. J J Tonight and Tuesday; Not Much til
mJm " " Change In Temperature. II if; ;
M FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. , 1.!
TBI fllh YearN-152- ccnt OGDEN CITY, UTAH, MONDAY EVENING, JUNE 26; 1916. . . a. . a, .J th. ,.. ,.,. HI
WrMtkWl - . -- ...-, m ..., wxuS 1111 Iff
. " : NATIONAL GUARDS ORDERED 10 GET
IJj AWAY WITHIN TWENTY-FOUR HOURS
j Fourteen New York Regiments, Including Infantry, Cavalry
and Artillery, Signal, Hospital, Ambulance and Engirieer-
ing Units Start Before Night Special Trains Given
j Right of Way Carranza's Last Chance.
If I MEXICO' MUST DECIDE WAR, OR NO WAR
i
Im j Whether State of Hostilities Shall Exist Between United States
, and Mexico Depends on De Facto President
I Straight Answer Demanded.
Wl 1
WILSON TO CALL JOINT SESSION OF CONGRESS
!: ' New York, June 26. In response to the appeal of Secre-
f tdiy of War Baker to Major-General Leonard Wood urging
$ him Lo start the national guard troops of the department of the
Sj i cast and south as soon as they were reasonably ready; four-
D j leen regiments including infantry, cavalry and artiller', to-
HI) gether with signal, hospital, ambulance and engineering units
Hi! arc under orders to start before night. It appeared doubtful
H j whether all commands could get away within the 24-hour
n j time limit'specified. Difficulty was found in obtaining special
H 'I trains.
j I l Washington, June 26 South and Central American repub-
M ? lies will not offer mediation Lo the United States in the Mexican
8 rj crisis at this time. This announcement was made late today by
j Minister Calderon of Bolivia after a conference with Secretary
If Lansing. - -" ""
m
i shin H nn .Tiino ?fi. Whether a I insr its future intentions toward the
f 6lale of war shall exist between the
W j United States and the de facto govern-
W ment of Mexico, depends upon the for-
J, mal declaration of policy by General
'; Carranza, expected hourly today In re-
) spouse to the note telegraphed to Mex-
IJ ico City yesterday by Secretary Lan-
sing.
I The American government will in-
sisl upon the immediate release of
the cavalrymen captured at Carrizal.
! as demanded in the note but high of-
1 ficials'of the administration explain,
I : in interpreting the communication,
m that the course of the United States
"J) I will be determined by Carranza's final
I statement of his intentions toward the
I American expedition in Mexico to pro-
I 'i tect the border, rather than on the
I ', specific circumstances of the Carrizal
If j incident.
If Morey's Official Note Awaited.
If The -war department had not re-
II j ceived at an early hour the letter from
III 1 Captain Lewin S. Morey of the Tenth
III . cavalry giving the first official Amer
I ; lean version of the fighting at Carri-
11 ' The published text oJ Captain Mo-
'' rey'B letter was construed as indicat-
li t ing that the American iurco was i
fi some extent responsible for the clash.
Officials noted this fact but said that
an official account from Captain Mo-
) rev would be the basis of judgment
rather than the hurried note -written
j by a man who was expecting death
I and was suffering from wounds and
thirst.
I Order to Trevino Real Issue.
L ', It was pointed out, however, that
Secretary Lansing's note did not
2 i found its demands upon a statement
I " that the Mexicans precipitated the
I tight. Apparently the question has no
a direct connection with the course
f President Wilson is pursuing. The
I , ; Mexican note saying General Carranza
I, personally directed that General Ter
m ' vino resist any movement of American
4 i troops in Mexico except on retirement
j toward the border, is the real issue.
II ' The Washington government con
l ' strues this action as a formal avowal
II of deliberate hostile action. It de-
I 5 mands that, If this is Carranza s pur-
I ; pose, he so state through regular dip-
I ' lomatlc channels.
II - -. i P nno-rnaa ICPTfl tnform-
1 , ed of all phases of the situation dur-
II " ing the day by the chairmen of the
I ' foreign affairs committees, who had a
I , long conference with the president
I l last night The president then Indi-
I " cated that he might desire to address
II V the house and senate ' soon, but no
steps toward arranging for a 30lnt
session will be taken until the Carrau-
II za reply is received. It is understood
I ; that Mr. Wilson plans to tell congress
Iff it Carranza adheres to his present
It avowed policy, that the de facto gov
t ernment of Mexico 18??!;
J It against forces of the United States
I If N employed In protecting the American
111 border.
HI -
I I L Carranza Has One More Chance.
M Washington, June 26. General Car-
111 ranza today had one more chance to
K Prevent an open break between tne
Bk United States and Mexico. Another
' note sent him yesterday by Secretary
Lansing- demands that 17 American
S K Prisoners of the Carrizal battle, now
3 M held at Chihuahua, be released and
1.K lhat lne Mexican government place
fillf oll on record immediately concern-
I
American forces now in Mexico.
The communication disclosed that
General Carranza had admitted, in a
note by the state department, issuing
orders to General Trevino to attack
American forces moving in any direc
tion except toward the border. In
carrying out these orders the attack
at Carrizal occurred. Consequently,
the American government now con
siders the de facto president respon
sible for the attack and gives him a
final opportunity to change his atti
tude. Wilson to Address- Congress.
President Wilson arranged last night
for a possible joint session of the
house and senate later this week
which he may address after the Car
ranza reply is received. Chairman
Stone, of the foreign relations com
mittee, Senator Lodge, ranking Re
publican member, and Chairman Flood
of the house committee on foreign af
fairs, conferred for more than an hour
with the president, and after their call
Senator Stone said, "We will never
have peace down there until we use
forco enough to compel it."
Mediation proposed by Minister Cal
deron of Bolivia and other South
American diplomats was not being
considered, seriously by President
Wilson or other administration offi
cials, it is thought. This subjejet was
not even mentioned at the conference
last night, Senator Stone said. The
South American diplomats are ex
pected to confer today with Secretary
Lansing, but It is understood his at
titude is that the United 'States has
nothing to arbitrate, the government's
only purpose being to defend its bord
ers. Large Force Being Mustered.
Large forces of militia, sworn in
as United States regulars, will be on
their way to the border within two
days, army officers said, and these
will go on in steadily Increasing num.
bers as the week progresses. By Fri
day or Saturday the United States will
be In a much better .position to strike
if this is decided upon as the only
course open to solve the question with
Mexico.
The return to General Pershing's
line of Captain Lewis Sydney Morey,
commander of Troop K, which par-
UntnnioA In tha, Parrlnl flfVif nnH
stated that the Mexicans started the
firing there, caused rejoicing in offi
cial circles. Captain Morey's report
strengthened the American govern
ment's attitude that It has sought to
avoid clashes with troops of the
Mexican de facto government.
High Officers Study Morey Report.
The presence of several high army
officers at the war department until
long after midnight last night, gave
rise to some speculation, but it was
said afterwards, however, that they
had remained to study Captain
Morey's report. These officers includ
ed General Scott, chief of staff? Gen
eral Bliss, assistant chief of staff,
Judge-Advocate General Crowder and
Lieutenant-Colonel Baker, assistant
quartermaster-general.
Villa Wounded.
Field Headquarters, June 20, by
courier to Columbus, N. M., June 22.
Francisco Villa was shot from tho rear
by a Mexican he had impressed into
his gang, during the battle with Car
ranza troops at Guerrero, but his fate
Is unknown, according to a semi-offi
cial account given out here today ob
tained by Major Robert L. Howse,
who was close on Villa's trail last
Villa, the Mexican deserter said,
exhibited every evidence of terror
during the early stages of his flight,
after the Americans had defeated his
men at Guerrero. He asserted he be
lieved that Villa was dead, but if ho
still were alive he was In the state
of Durango, for which point he was
heading during his flight with Gen
eral Pershing's men.
Aeroplane Patrol Planned.
Washington, June 2G. Establish
ment of an aerial patrol along the en
tire Mexican -border is planned by the
war department should war come.
More than thirty aeroplanes recently
have been ordered, including 14 high
powered machines.
Americans Leave Chihuahua.
El Paso, Texas, June 26 Seven
Americans attached to the Alvarado
Mining and Milling o8mpany and the
Compania Agricola are expected to
reach Juarez late today rrom Chihua
hua, leaving practically no Americans
in that state.
New Clash Reported.
Columbus, N M., June 26. A report
was in circulation here today that an
other clash of American and Carran
Ista troops had occurred in the vicin
ity of Villa Ahumada. but army offi
cers here have not confirmed it.
El Paso, Texas, June 26. Mexican
officials in El Paso and Juarez said
today they had heard nothing of any
fighting at Villa Ahumada or any oth
er point
oo
SPEEDING UP
MOBILIZATION
Elaborate and Smooth Ma
chinery in Operation to Ex
"pedite Transportation.
HAVE RIGHT OF WAY
Citizens Organizing Compan
ies Who Will Offer Services
to United States.
Washington, June 26. Speeding up
of the mobilization of national guards
men was reported lo the war depart
ment today from nearly all states and
word was expected momentarily by
the National Guard division that the
first contingents had started for the
border.
Major-General Leonard Wood, com
manding the eastern department, re
ported that he expected several New
York and Massachusetts regiments
ready to start during the day.
More than 1,000 Missouri guardsmen
were reported to have been mustered
into the federal service. They were
the first to actually take the United
States oath, since one company of the
Oregon guard qualified.
Troops Have Right of Way.
General Scott, chief of staff said
elaborate and smooth working machin
rrv -vvns in nnorafion to exnodite trans
portation of the national guard to the
south. Their troop and supply trains
have the right of way, even to side
tracking limited passenger trains.
The quartermaster-general has
charge of the transportation aided by
railroad agents of the American Rail
road Association stationed constantly
at the war department.
State Authorities Responsible.
Physical examination and lack or
equipment is delaying militia in some
states. It is pointed out that state
authorities and not the federal gov
ernment are responsible for any short
age of uniforms, rifles and other ma
terials, the regulations requiring that
sufficient quantities be on hand at all
times to equip militia units up to
their peace strength.
The militia division was advised to
day that Illinois' guard was two-thirds
enrolled; that Kansas guardsmen were
mustering with practically all in camp
and that Ohio's complement would be
mobilized completely tomorrow, hav
ing received further orders to hasten.
The Wisconsin guard was reported not
Other state forces reported mobiliz
ed today include Indiana, Michigan.
Wyoming, Colorado, South Dakota
and Minnesota and Idaho.
Citizens Organizing Companies.
The war department has received
many .requests from separate organi
zations not identified with the Na
tional Guard to be recruited. Citizens
of German, Polish and others of for
eign parentage are organizing separ
ate companies. Army heads explain
ed today that such organizations could
not be accepted, unless they should
answer a call for volunteers.
"As far as the war department Is
concerned." said Secretary Baker,
"there is only one nationality recog
nized American."
BELIEVE IT MEANS WAR.
El Paso, Tox., June 25. When in
formed of the president's ultimatum
to Carranza tonight, military authori
ties along the border unanimously de
clared It meant war. If Carranza dis
avows the Carrizal affair, they as
serted, his generals, Obrcgon and Tre
vino, will renounce him.
ROOSEVELT NOTE
TO PROGRESSIVES
Gives Reasons for Declining
to Be Presidential Candidate
of Party.
ADMIRES SUPPORTERS
Unreservedly Endorses Justice
Hughes and Urges Friends
to Vote for Him.
Chicago, June 26. Theodore Roose
velt, in a letter read to the Progres
sive National committee in session
here today, finally declined to accept
the presidential nomination of the
party and strongly urged the Bull
Moose organization to support Chas.
E. Hughes The colonel's letter was
read by Oscar King Davis, secretary
of the committee.
Letter of Theodore Roosevelt to the
Progressive National comnilttee:
To the Progressive National Com
mittee: Gentlemen Tn accordance with the
message I sent to the Progressive Na
tional convention as soon as I had re
ceived the notification that it had
nominated me for president, I now
communicate to you my reasons for
declining the honor which I so deeply
appreciate. Since the adjournment 6f
the convention, I have received be
tween two and three thousand letters
and telegrams from men who had sup
ported me for the nomination, the
majority expressing the desire that 1
would refuse to run, while a minority
urged that I should accept the nom
ination. As it is a physical impossi
bility to answer these letters and tele
grams individually, I beg of the courl
esy of the senders that they will ac
cept this public statement in lieu of
such"answers.""
Admires His Supporters.
Before speaking of anything else, I
wish to express my heartiest and most
unstinteu aumirauon ior me cnaracier
and services of the men and women
who made up the Progressive Na
tional convention in 1916. I can give
them no higher praise than to say that
in all respects they stood level with
the men and women who, in 1912 join
ed at Chicago to found the Progressive
party. These two conventions, in
character, in disinterestedness, in vis
ion, in insight, In high purpose and in
desire to render practical service to
the people, typified exactly what such
bodies ought to be In a great self
governing democracy. They repre
sented tho spirit which moved Abra
ham Lincoln and his political associ
ates during tho decade preceding the
close of the Civil war. The platform
put forth in 1912 was much the most
Important public document promulgat
ed in this country since the death of
Abraham Lincoln It represented the
first effort on a large scale to trans
late abstract formulas of economic
and social Justice into concrete Amer
ican Nationalism; the effort to apply
the principles of Washington and Lin
coln lo the need of the United States
(Continued on Page 3.)
nn
GEN, PERSHING
READYTO ACT
Twelve Thousand Men in
Splendid Fighting Trim
Equipment in Best of
Condition.
Commanders Redouble Vigi
lance and Ready to Spring
Into Action at Moment's
Notice.
El Paso, Texas, June 26. General
John J. Pershing's erstwhile punitive
u.viicuiv.iuuun luivc III IHCAICU 'O icou;
for action, if action is necessary.
Today, according to the best Infor
mation here, his southernmost outpost
is in the vicinity of El Valle, less
than fifty miles from Colonla Dublan,
the main base. It is believed that
from El Valle a large and mobile force
may be pointed eastward, in a strate
gic position toward the Mexican Cen
tral railroad.
In the neighborhood of 12,000 men,
in splendid fighting trim, compose
General Pershing's army. Reports
from tho front Indicate the highest
morale among the men.
Motor Trains Lined Up.
Equipment has been put in the best
of condition. Horses and mules have
been tested until only the fit and
strong remain. Big motor trains, al
ready loaded with the necessary sup
plies for an advance, are lined up
ready to be started.
There Is not a single wounded or
incapacitated man with the force. All
have been sent to tho base hospital
at Columbus.
In the meantime every ompty truck
which remained at Columbus has been
WILL LEAD TROOPS
IF TROUBLE COMES
General Bell.
In the event of an outbreak of
hostilities with Mexico, General Bell,
the commander of Fort Bliss, Texas,
is expected' to move across the bor
der, along the tracks of the Mexican
Central railway and cut the line
south of Villa, Ahumada. ,This vould
prevent the de facto forces under
General Francisco Serrano and Gen
eral Jacinto- Trevino from attacking
the American troops at El Ville ana
Colonia Dublan.
sent to the front to aid In the speedy
transportation of Infantry.
Trouble Momentarily Expected.
Speculation on the 'border today
dealt with tho possibility that some
action by tho Mexicans may precipi
tate hostilities before the exchanges
between Washington and Mexico City
are concluded.
With the lines of the Americans and
Mexicans paralleling for at least one
hundred and fifty miles, the rash ac
tion of some subordinate commander,
it is considered here, might at any
time embroil the Mexican commands.
Tension, consequently, grows with
each hour.
Commander Redouble Vigilance.
Fear that events might be thus
hastened prompted border command
ers to redouble their vigilance. At all
points the soldiers were ready to
spring into action at a moment's no
tice. Troop dispositions were made
with a view to meeting sudden and
unexpected emergencies.
Five thousand National guardsmen
are expected to come to El Paso, it
w:is salrl indnv- nnrl maiTc- nf thorn
may get hero by the end of the week.
From Cojumbus, it is reported, that
preparations are being made to take
care of 10,000 guardsmen.
Question Up to Carranza.
Andres Garcia, .the Mexican consul
at El Paso, today declared himself
still optimistic that troub'le would 'be
averted.
"I do not see that there need be
war from any interpretation of Presi
dent Wilson's last-note," he declared.
"Those seventeen prisoners ought
not offer an obstacle. We have re
ceived no information from the de
facto authorities as to the questions
at hand and the whole matter Is up
to General Carranza.''
Scouts Rescue Morey.
Reports from General Pershing ear
ly today said Captain Morey had been
rescued by a scouting party detached
from Major Jenkins' command.
Major Jenkins reported that the two
squadrons of the Eleventh were con
tinuing their sweeping search for sur
vivors of C. and X. Troops of the
Tenth.
Tmfuiun Rtlll 1 InacrniinUn tZf-r
Of the total of eighty-four men in
the two troops, one officer and forty
three enlisted men .have reached the
American lines, according to General
Pershing's dispatch to General Fun
ston, part of which is based upon Ma
jor Jenkins report One enlisted man
is reported to be making his way
north In the direction of Sablnal. Al
lowing for seventeen prisoners, twenty-two
men are still unaccounted for.
no
AMERICAN AIRMAN
WOUNDED IN FIGHT.
Paris, June 25. Sergeant Barnsjey
of Texas, a member of the Franco
American aviation corps, was wounded
during a fight with German aeroplanes
near Bar le Due, where he was taken
to a hospital. Sergeant Barnsley was
wounded in the stomach by machine
gun fire from the German aeroplanes.
Sergeant Barnsley is a member of
one ofthe several -Franco-American
.flotillas organized some time ago from
tho forty or more American volun-,
teers in the aero service in the French
army. I
V
AUSTRIA! IN GENERAL RETREAT I
OVER SECTOR TWENTY MILES WIDE 1
I ni
i!
Italians Pressing Pursuit Vigorously and Close to Heels of En jl '
emy Russians Hurl Back Germans and Capture An- lj.
other Austrian Town Important Activity Reported I
Along British Lines in France and Belgium mo
Germans in Front of Verdun Heavy W
Fighting in Progress. 8 f
Bgl
Petrograd, June 26, via London, 7:16 p. m. Russian Ijuj
cavalry, after a battle withAustro-Hungarian troops, has oc- m
cupied a position near Pezoritt, about five and a half miles yf&
west of Kimpolung in Bukowina. The foregoing was an- jp-
nounced in the official statement issued by the Russian war K!
office. tija i
Apparently the British, who hold
the northern portion of the line In
France and Belgium are threatening
if they have not already begun making
a diversion in an attempt to aid the
French at Verdun. The Berlin war
office reports important war activity
along the British lines.
The Austrians have definitely aban
doned their offensive in the southern
Tyrol and are falling back, according
to today's reports from the Italian
front.
The Verdun battle, by all accounts
now in crucial stage, was continued
last night with the French repulsing
German attempts to advance, accord
ing to the Paris war office. The
French claim to have regained ground.
Probably preparatory to an effort to
bring their lines west of the Meuso
up to those on the east bank, the Ger
mans are vigorously bombarding tho
French positions in the former sec
tor. Rome, June 26, 9:45 a. m. A gen
eral retreat of the Austrians In the
Trentino district over a sector about
20 miles in extent is announced In an
official statement issued by the Ital
ian war office today. The statement
says that the Italians are pressing
the pursuit vigorously.
The text of the statement follows:
"The enemy, incapable of overcora
Ing our defense and under the ener
igetic pressure which wo have been
'conducting for several days, has been
forced to begin a retreat north of the
Mandrlelle road. We have captured
the positions of Castelgamberto, Me
lette. Mount Longara, Gallio, Aslago,
Cesuna. and Mount Cengio. Our ad
vance continues vigorously and close
to the heels of the enemy.
Heavy Fighting in Progress.
Paris, June 26, 3:45 a. m In a
night attack the French captured part
of a German trench between Fumiu
and Chenois woods in the Verdun sec
tor. A German attack west of Thiau
mont was repulsed, according to an
official statement issued by the war
French office today. A heavy artil
lery duel is in progress west of the
Meuse.
. a. Ill 1 ET.W.. Clnhlnn
important vvem. num. ia"",,a
Berlin, via London, June 26. 2:30
m Fighting activity in the west
orn theatre on the fronts occupied by
the British and the north wing of the
French army is important and has
been so far the past two days, says
the official statement issued today by
the German army headquarters.
Great Russian Drive.
London, June 26, 3:30 a. m. The
greatest battle of the present series
on the Russian front is developing In
the socalled Lutsk salient, accord
ing to the latest dispatches from Pet
rograd. The new places named in the
official communication would appear
to indicate that the Germans already
have made a slight impression on
the salient. .
Tho key to the whole situation is
the Kovel junction, and gigantic ef
forts aro being made by the Germans
to safeguard this vital point. They
are massing every available unit there
to counter the Russian thrust.
GEN. RICAOT
. IS PUNISHED
v
Commander of Northeastern
Mexico Border Control Re
moved for Failure to At
tack Americans.
Laredo, Texas, June 26. It was re
ported unofficially here today that
First Chief Carranza had removed
General Alfredo Ricaut, commander of
the northeastern border patrol, and
reinstated General Emlllo Nafarette,
now at Tamplco. . The change was
said to have been due to RIcaut's fail
ure to attack the American forces that
crossed tho river in pursuit of bandits
ion Juno 16.
ii. - i -
RUSSIANS HURL j
BACKGERMANS 1
Gunfire on the Stokhod an In- ;
fcrno Similar to Holocaust l:j
at Verdun. " J
ONSLAUGHTS COSTLY 1
Germans Shrink at No Sacri- fil
fice to Retain Communica- ffi j
tion With Kovel and ' j
Lemberg- ' .- m
London, June 26, 8:22 a m "Offi- ml
cers who have arrived at Kiev," says 'tiMl
neuter d rctiutjinii -ui i copunucui, uu- st 11
scribe the breaking of all German at- mY
tacks on the Russian front along the j fflr tj
Stokhod river. Large reserves launch- ! f
ed by the Germans were hurled back j I tt
by the Russians who now are on the j 0
offensive. German prisoners who were
recently on the French front compare j
the Russian gunfire on the Stokhod as j 'b
an inforno similar to that at Verdun. j jw
"Further south in the Vladlmir-Vol- tfjgH
hynskla and Sokul regions combined 8JJR
enemy onslaughts are proving equally J jjj
ineffective and costly. The enemy jjKjj
ovldently shrinks at no sacrifice to re- ilaffl
tain communications with Kovel and ,8m
, L em berg. n
"Kuty, which has been taken by tn
the Russians, Is on the left bank of Sgi
the Cheremesh river, a tributary of rSBn!
the Pruth, and the Russians had to IkJUJi
force the rivers in the faco of gun- i Still
fire from ,the hills behind. The Rus- (!Wj
sians now are In possesion of the 'PyfjS
entire Czernowltz-Kuty railway. 'Sfiu
"The Beresina river, on which fight- i jgRffi,
ing was reported yestcrdaj', is a nor- jERftj
thern tributary of the NIemen. Bog- W
danoff is on the Lida-Molodechno rail- Mjli
way a dozen miles south of Krevo. wi
In the region between Vilna and Molo- ;wmV
dechno the Germans lately have been s15
extending their field operations north lljr
and south of Smorgen. They are now W
attacking the Molodechno salient not iff ij
only f-om the northwest but from the g 1 1
southwest and west." MfH
I -r. JsBli
MEXICAN FORCES 1
PREPAREFOR WAR j
Moving to Strategic Points
Along Line Permitting Rapid ' If j
Handling of Troops. H '!;
jp j i
San Antonio. Texas, June 26. News KJ '
reaching army heaaquarters here in- '.Kj M
dicates that the Mexican forces along gj if
the Rio Grande from Matamoros to ,K j'jj
Juarez, either have withdrawn their y
main strencrth from the border, or aro r .'in
preparing to do it. It also is Indicated fl j'jj
that these troops are taking station t
at the strategic points along a line fej VI
well south of the border, where rail- i ft jf
road junctions allow of the rapid hand-
ling of troops, or where the topo- ' S Sf
graphy of the country would permit lift
of a strong defense. j W ?&
Their new line, It is reported, would j U J
command the lines of advance toward ' ?J i'
the strategic points ot Monterey and Ji fj,
Saltlllo, the Coahuila coal mines which ,& S
furnish tho main fuel supply of Mexico (' ( u
and en which the movement of loco- W fa
motives depends, Paredon, the main U M
railroad junction point between Mon- f. ; fj
terey and Saltillo on. Torreon and (j tit
which probably will be the main base ' jf
of the Mexican army and Chihuahua , W
City. . ".
The Mexican garrisons at Matamor- 4 ' ,i
as, Nuevo Laredo and Juarez are said ; j l
to be -small Only a negligible force i i
is said to be stationed opposite Del ' ;
Rip and the strongest force along the i 1
border that at Pledras Nogras, oppo- 'j
site Eagle Pass, Is reported prepar- ;, A
Ing to evacuate at a moment's so- ft
tlce. mj -J
1 a ll
liii.jiiu j iiuimi.. i ii bbboi , , m fy "
