First Brigade N, G. P. Gets Otders to
HARRISBURG TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 146
ORDER FIRST BRIGADE SOUTH;
ONE CHANCE TO AVERT WAR
GUARDSMEN OF
PENAA. TO GO
TO LINE FIRST
Battalion of Engineers, Signal Corps, Hospital Corps and
One Ambulance Corps Will Accompany First, Sec
ond and Third Regiments; Gen. Price Expects to
Have Men Entrained Before Tomorrow Night
DECLARATION OF WAR RESTS UPON
CARRANZA'S ANNOUNCEMENT OF POLICY
Expected Hourly to Reply to Note Requesting Release of
Prisoners; Course of U. S. to Be Determined by De
Facto Chief's Final Statement Rather Than on Carri
zal Battle
Mt. Gretna. Pa.. June 26.—Mexico looms upon the immediate
horizon for Philadelphia First Brigade. The honor of being the
first Pennsylvania troops to be sent to the Mexican border in re
sponse to President Wilson's call has fallen to General W. G. Price's
brigade of infantry, to field hospital N'o. 2, of Philadelphia: company
B. engineer battalion, of Philadelphia, together with company A,
engineers battalion, from Scranton, and the field battalion of signal
troops from Pittsburgh.
Orders for these commands are to entrain "at once" for a des
tination which has not as yet been made public.
General Price was utterly inaccessable for the time being be
cause of pressure of military business, but it was manifested from his
manner that he was intensely proud of the tribute paid his brigade.
Every man who could by hook or crook get leave from another
command long enough to do so, made his way to the lines of the
First brigade and the other troops named to congratulate them.
The engineers formed their companies and paraded about their
company street cheering and singing.
At almost the same time the "marching orders" were received
came word that twenty-four carloads of ammunition were on their
way here from the Allegheny arsenal at Pitsburgh, and probably
will arrive to-night. The railroads are hard at work assembling
the troop trains which will carry the -men and their baggage and
equipment, the quartermaster corps is bending efforts to assemble
the great volumes of equipage necessary and to prepare the im
mense quantity of travel rations which will be'necessary to the sub
sistence of the troops enroute.
By Associated Press
\\ ashington, June 26. —\\ hether a state of war shall exist be
tween the United States and the de facto government of Mexico
depends upon the formal declaration of policy by General Carranza
expected hourly to-day in response to the note telegraphed to Mexico
City yesterday by Secretary Lansing.
The American government will insist upon the immediate re
lease of the cavalrymen captured at Carrizal. as demanded in the
note, but high officials of the administration explain in interpreting
the communication that the course of the United States will be de
termined By Carranza's final statement of his intentions toward the
American expedition in Mexico to protect the border, rather than
on the specific circumstances of the Carrizal incident.
Await Captain Morey's Report
The War Department had not re
ceived at an early hour the letter from
Captain Lewis 8. Morey, of the Tenth
cavalry, giving the first official Ameri
can version of the fighting at Carrizal.
It had been advised, however, that
Morey was safe at one of General
Pershing's camps and a complete re
port on the afTair was expected
promptly.
The published text of Captain
Morey's letter was construed as indi
cating that the American force was
to some extent responsible for the
clash. Officials noted this fact but
THE WEATHER,
For Hfirrlntiurg and vicinity: Fair
to-rilcht: Tuesday partly cloudy,
probably thondemhowerNi not
much rhaoßf In temperature.
For Kantrrn Pennnylvnuioi Fair to
night: TueNday probably local
ihiinilfrNhoivem; light, variable
wlndn.
River
The *«j«qa<»hniinn river .and prob
ably all lb hranche* will con
tinue to fall. A ntnge of about
feet In Indicated for Harrl*-
burg Tuesday morning.
General Condition*
Pre**ure In nomeubnt above nor
mal over the Ohio Vnlley and
Tenne**«c and the Middle \flnn
tic Mate*. An area of moder
ately high barometer la central
ou-r the Upper Ml«*ourl Valley
nnd another bleb area baa It*
center In the Pacific ocean off the
con*t of Northern California. « en
ter* of moderately- low prea*tire
arc located. one over the Rio
<»rande Valley and another over
Take Superior. Showern have
fallen In the Inat twenty-four
hour* along the \tlantlc coant
from Maine to Florida: al*o In the
l.nwcr Ml**ourl and Upper Mln
*l**ippi valley*, over the Lake
Superior reuion nnd In Manitoba,
and there have been *hower* In
the \orthwrnt State* and In
Rritl*h Columbia. Temperature*
are 2 to 10 degrea higher than on
Saturday morning at a majority
of the Mtatlon* repreaented on the
map. In the Upper Ohio Vallev.
Interior of \eu York State nnd
In Virginia and the South Atlan
tic* State* It I* nllglitly cooler.
Temperature: S a. m.|, 60.
Sun: Rlnen, 4:37 a. m.t netn. 7:37
p. m.
Moon: Wew moon, June 30, 5:43
a. m.
River Btage: <l.l feet above low
water mark.
Yenterday*a Weather
tflgheat tempernture, SI.
I oweat temperatnre. 04.
Mean temperature, 72.
Koraitl temperature, 72.
HV CARRIERS « TESTS A WEEK.
SINGI.E COPIES 2 CEJiTS.
i said that an official account fron»Cap
tain Morey would be the basis of judg
ment rather than the hurried note
written by a man who was expecting
death and was suffering from wounds
and thirst.
Not Founded on Fight
It was pointed out, however, that
Secretary Lansing's note did not found
Its demands upon a statement that the
Mexicans precipitated the fight. Ap
i parently the question has no direct
connection with the course President
Wilson is pursuing. The Mexican note
I 2? 5 . Ge " eral Carranza personallv
directed that General Trevino resist
Go All the Way to lowa
to See Brother Before
He Goes to the Front
Hazel Cole, a trained nurse,
residing at 234 South Fourteenth
street, and her sister, Miss Violet Cole.
1623 Chestnut street, bookkeeper for
the Harrisburg Baking Company, left
Saturday nigh' at 10 o'clock for
Des Moines. lowa. Their one hope was
to reach a brother. Jack, a prominent
business man. who has been ordered
i to Mexico, and whom they have not
j seen in five years.
COLLIDES WITH WARSHIP
By Associated Press
New York, June 26.—The Massachu
setts nautical training ship Ranger
| was in collision in a dense fog earlv
j to-day with a British warship, believed
|to be one of tht merchant auxiliarv
cruisers on patrol duty off Montauic
at the eastern tip of Long
Island. A wireless message received
later at the Brooklyn navy yard indi
cated that neitlur vessel was seriously
damaged. Ths ships exchanged prof
fers of assistance and the Ranger con
tinued on her course to the govern-
I ment navy yard at Boston.
HI'GHES BACK IN NEW YORK
By Associated Press
New York, June 26.—Charles E.
Hughes returned to New York to-day
from Bridgehampton, L I. He
planned to continue his conferences
here with party leaders In regard to
campaign plans and his speech of
I acceptance.
HETTY GREEN ILI>
By Associated Press
j New York, June 26.—The condition
of Mrs. Hetty Green was described at
, her home here to-day as "very favor
able." Denial *as made that she was
suffering from a stroke of paralvsls.
Oolonel Edward H. R. Green, her son.
, bald the illness was not serious.
HARRISBURG, PA., MONDAY EVENING, JUNE 26, 1916.
EIGHTH REGIMENT CANVAS AT MT. GRETNA
f -» :vv, -■-v»v - ' „ s
,j|L ' N
Br nightfall Saturday the Eighth Regiment troops were under canvas. At the top Is a blrdseve view of the
companies with the regimental headquarters In the foreground. The hills surrounding Governor Dick form a
picturesque scene looming up back of the white tents. Below on the left is Captain H. H. Baker. Colonel Maurice
E. Finney, commander of the Eighth: Captain Owen M. Copelln and Major Henry A. Reninger, Fourth Brigade ad
jutant, conferring on the lpoatlon iff tha t«nt«. On the ripht are the men of Company I stretching their canvas.
CAMP BRUMBAUGH I
IS ELECTRIFIED BY j
MARCHING ORDER
Gen. Price Plans to Have Men
Entrained Fully Equipped
and Mustered Tomorrow
EXAMINING EIGHTH
Harrisburg Soldiers Undergo
ing Medical Routine;
Camp to Visitors
[From a Staff Correspondent.]
Division Headquarters, Camp
Brumbaugh, Mt. Gretna, Pa., June 26.
; —Camp Brumbaugh was electrified
this morning'by the news from Har
risburg that the First brigade. one
! battalion of engineers, one field signal
corps, one field ambulance corps and
one field hospital corps had been or
dered to the Mexican border at once.
General Price at once began to get his
tmen in readiness to move and they
twill be on the trains before the sun
sets to-morrow night completely
equipped and all mastered into the
i United States service.
The Eighth regiment, including
| Companies D and I of Harrisburg, is
undergoing medical examination to
i day and may be mustered into the ser
vice before night. The Governor's
troop is also facing the physicians and
all of the Harrisburg guardsmen will
be innoculated against typhoid fever
before nightfall.
Col. S. W. Miller, formerly a United
States recruiting officer in Harrisburg
arrived in camp this morning on an
errand he did not divulge. He was
warmly greeted Djr men of the Guard
who learned to know him while In
Harrisburg. He has a host of friends
who were glad to see him back.
Final Preparations Under Way
Final preparations were being made
at the Pennsylvania mobilization camp
to-day for the movement to the Mexi
can border of part of the troops con
centrated here. Orders were received
[Continued on Pace 5]
Special Trainload of
Tobacco For France
From Lancaster Co.
Special to the Telegraph
Lancaster, Pa.. June 26. Until a few |
days ago it had been years since a
special trainload of Lancaster countv.
grown tobacco has left this city. The
train, over the Reading Railway, con
sisted of forty-three cars, and contained
2,000 cases of 1909 tobacco. Its desti
nation is France and Belgium, and It
had been bought at prices ranging
from 11 hi to 12>4 cents a pound.
Within the last six weeks a single
New York firm has purchased 3.600
cases of the 1909 packing. This is the
tobacco that has proved so costly to i
manv Lancaster packers, because of the
attitude of packers before It was cut. j
and later, while curing, in order to
keep down the price. The crop not only
went begging for years, but the prices
were ruinously low.
When agents of foreign Governments
began buying It six months ago. It be- j
Ing the only cheap tobacco to be had,
it was selling as low as « and 7 cents |
a pound, and fullv 25.000 rases wer» for
sale The demand has sent the prices
up to 12, 13 and 14 cents a pound. i
101 "ROOKIES"
LEAVE TODAY TO
JOIN COMRADES
Recruits of Companies D and
and I and Governor's Troop
Entrain For Gretna
DRUM GOES RAT-A-TAT
Big Crowd Bids Farewell to
Newly Enlisted Men at
P. R. R. Station
Just 101 more "rookies' from Har
risburg entrained to-day for Mt.
Gretna where they will join the other
boys in Companies D and I, Eighth
Regiment, and the Governor's Troop.
The recruits were hustled off to the
mobilization camp under rush orders.
Those enlisted in the infantry com
panies entrained at 11:20, but the
[Continued on
DONT FORGET
RELIEF FUND!
Add Your Bit of Telegraph's
Fund For Families of En
listed Men
Now that most of the enlisted men
have left Harrisburg for the mobiliza
tion camp at Mt. Gretna, let us not
forget the high duty imposed upon
those who remain behind to care for
the families and those dependent upon
the soldiers who have responded to
the call of their country.
In the excitement of the last few
days this important matter may have
been In a measure overlooked, but
now that the boys have gone out in
the performance of duty, it is time to
[Continued uu Page 9]
Associated Ad Clubs'
Convention Under Way
By Associated Press
Philadelphia, June 26.—The thou
sands of delegates to the twelfth an
nual convention of the Associated Ad
vertising Clubs of the World wer6 wel
comed to-day by Governor Brum
baugh, Mayor Smith, Provost Smith,
of the University of Pennsylvania, and
Robert H. Durbin, president of the
Poor Richard Club.
William Woodhead, of San Fran
-1 Cisco, responded to addresses of wel
; come at this morning s session. Re
ports of the officers were received and
this afternoon an advertising mass
meeting was hf-ld. A street pageant
, will be held to-night. The first division
will portray The History of Adver-
I Using" in pageantry; the second, a dls-
I play of those accomplishments in
which Philadelphia has heen first, and
| the third will consist of the visiting
i clubs.
AUSTRIANS FLEE;
ENTIRE BUKOWINA
IN RUSS HANDS
Italians Drive Teutons From
Asiago Sector; Czar Takes
Crownland
ADVANCE IN GALICIA
Vast Amount of Stores, Rail
way Trains and Guns Are
Captured
The Austrians have definitely aban
doned their offensive in the southern
Tyrol and are falling back, according
to to-day's reports from the Italian
front.
The evidences of a decided flagging
in the Austrian aggressive, which be
gan to appear when the Russian of
fensive in the East got under head
[Continuod on Page 9]
THINK LOCAL MAN
DIED AT CARRIZAL
Friends Believe His Body Lies
on Sand-Swept Carrizal
Plain
Somewhere oti the arid, sand-swept
plain about Carrizal, where Captain
Boyd's heroic .made their last
stand less than a week ago, lies the
body of Robert Williams, a former
Harrisburger, his friends here believe.
Young Williams was a private In
Troop K of the "Fighting Tenth," one
of the commands that bravely marched
Into the Mexican death-trap and In
face of anihilatlon fought off superior
numbers for five hours.
He is the sor. of the late Clarence
Williams, known to Harrisburg hase
j ball fans as a member of the famous
| "Cuban Giants," a policeman and a
waiter. Ukf his father, he also was a
; laseball player, and was well known by
the fans. When not playing haseball
Williams was employed at the Central
Construction anri Supply Company's
asphalt plant, in Seventh street, or as
a driver for Gates & Co.. coal dealers.
Private Williams enlisted a few
I ago, shortly after the Tenth
passed through Harrisburg. His
friends here have heen watching the
list of survivors of Boyd's last stand
but so far his name has not been
Included.
The name Williams, however, is in
cluded in the list of prisoners.
Bt'RNKD BY GAS
By Associated Press
William Gakoski, aged 23, of 1068
Ninth street,employed as laborer at the
Central Iron and Steel mills was badly
burned about the face and hands by
an explosion of gas in one of the blast
.furnaces. i
14 PAGES
PROGRESSIVES
URGED TO BACK
HUGHES BY T. R.
Col. Roosevelt Finally Declines Ball Moose Presidential
Nomination and Strongly Endorses Republican Can
didate in Letter to National Committee; Writes of
Spiritual and Industrial Preparedness
ASSERTS MR. WILSON HAS BEEN TRIED AND
FOUND WANTING; PARTY AGAINST NATIONALISM
In Pledging "Ungrudging Support of Mr. Hughes," Col.
Roosevelt Says We Have the Alternative of Continu
ing in Office a Lamentable Failure or Putting Into
Office an Administration Which Will Function For
Honor of All
Chicago, June 26. —Theodore Roosevelt, in a letter read to the
Progressive National Committee in session to-day finally declined to
accept the Presidential nomination of the oartv and strongly urged
j the organization to support Charles E. Hughes. The Colonel's let
i ter was read by Oscar King Davis, secretary of the committee.
To the Progressive National Committee:
"Gentlemen—ln accordance with the message I sent to the Pro
gressive National Convention as soon as I had received the notifica
tion that it had nominated me for President, I now communicate to
I you my reasons for declining the honor which I so deeply appreciate.
Since the adjournment of the Convention. I have received between
• two and three thousand letters and telegrams from men who had
supported me for the nomination, the majority expressing the desire
that I would refuse to run,while a minority urged that 1 should accept
1 the nomination. As it is a physical impossibility to answer these
letters and telegrams individually, 1 beg of the courtesy of the send
| ers that they will accept this public statement in lieu of such answers.
"Before speaking of anything else. I wish to express my heartiest
and most unstinted admiration for the character and services of the
f Continued on Pa«e 4]
ADD FIVE MILLIONS TO FORTIFICATIONS ,
' Washington, June -T'i-.-e million doll. . . itided
to the fortifications bill ES it passed the House by a Senate (
committee to-day, to be used for purchase and manufacture '
of mountain, field ana siege cannon.
I TO COMPLETE NAVY PROGRAM IN THREE YEARS ® ►
Washington, June 26.—After a conference to-day with
I Secretary Daniels and Navy Department Bureau chiefs, the • I
Senate subcommittee considering the naval bill decided to
recommend completion of the naval general board's SSOO,- e J
000,000 building program in three years,
j 14 MORE WANT TO ENLIST IN REGULARS < >
Harrisburg, Pa.—Up until 3.30 this afternoon, four- i
( teen applications for enlistment were receieved at the army J »
recruiting station in the Bergner building. 1 j
VIRTUAL EMBARGO PLANNED
• Washington, June 26.—A virtual embargo on commerce J
betw en the United nd Mexi termin- I
ministration.
CAPTAIN MOREY SENDS STORY OF FIGHT 1
Carrizal, Mex., June 21.—The letter written by Cap-' ,
tain Morey on the scene of the battle when he believed he ;
® was dying, sent to General Funston and for which army 1 *
officers at Washington are waiting gives the following
I summary of the fight: "Captain Boyd was under the im-® '
• pression that the Mexicans would run as soon as we fired. 1 >
We formed for attack. When we were within 300 yards
I the Mexicans opened fire, a strong one before we fired a*j |
shot. Then we opened up. They did not run. To make a ! '
long story short, after about an hour's fight the Mcxicansl J
worked around to our rear and run our horses off.. Before J I
, machine gun fire our men fell back and scattered."
» 1 I
ANOTHER CLASH IS REPORTED |
j Columlus, N. M., June 26.—A report was current here ' *
to-day that another clash of American and Carranza troops
• had occurred .in the vicinity of Villa Ahumada. Army of-' *
I ficers here have not confirmed it. '
>. 1 >
MARRIAGE LICEK9BS
I James Donald Bowman, Mlllrrsburg. and Sank Gertrude Chanln.' 1 !
Philadelphia) Joseph Sandor, Jr., and lioaa Gulls, Meeltoni Paul Bartholo- 1
men Wald and Ellen Joaepklnt Sckrerkentaam, cltji Joseph Frank Mc- [
• rear), Jr., elty. nnd Anna Maude l.ook. Enhauti CkrMrr Umonde Myers
and Adallne Emll.v Hatvhett, city) Percy Elmore Johnson, Dlllmeyll, Pa.
and Lanra Met alster, llalnhrldKei James Bumcnrdner and Frances Foote'. b
I'ltyi Benjamin John Waldo and latah Elisabeth Fiiak, Washington. D t!' >
Harry E. Miller. Pottstown, and Vera May Adams, Wllllamntomn. 1
1 W " Vfrr II Wri >i IliVlliiiiliiitfjyi
CITY EDITION
