a?r.UL?noN, . _ /
Daily Average A Q7A
for May, 1916 \y/l U
A Quality Newipiper for th? Horn*
ADVERTISING IN
THE WEST VIRGINIAN
BRINGS TRADE -
Northern West Virginia's Greatest. Newspaper
1TABLISHED 1868.
FAIRMONT, WEST VIRGINIA,,MONDAY EVENING, JUNE 26,1916,
TODAY'8 NEW8 TODAY
ASSOCIATED
PRICE TWO CENTS
Both Sides Are Under Bond
to Answer For Various
Offenses.
SALES QUESTION AGAIN
Police Refused to Permit |
Constables to Sell Goods
on Street.
Constables of Marlon county, Lesllo
Michaels and Charles Satterfleld,
were arrested Saturday afternoon by
city police Fred S. Harr, H. W. Hold
en, Thomas Ford and C. S. Pltrer on
a charge of obstructing traffic when
they employed Auctioneer Melvin
Bunor to sell 3ome goods In front of
the court house. Bunner, too, was ar.
rested.
Mayor Bowen, who admits he In.
structed the men to make the arrests
and the policemen making the arrests
(excepting Holden) were later arrest
ed on warrants sworn out by the con
[stables charging them with interfer
ing with an officer in the discharge
of his duties.
Both city and county officers gave
Ixrad for their appearances later. The
fogpnty officers will be tried in Mayor
K&nihony Bo wen's court at 7:30 o'clock
ithls evening. The date for the hear
ting, of hte city officers Is not yet
known.
Friday afternoon, 24 hours beforo
the salo started in front of the court
field called the office .of thechief of
police and told that officer that there
w&ld be an auction sale in front of
the court hpnse. He was told to do
what he pleased but that the street
must not be obstructed.
Saturday afternoon it was discov
ered that the sale had caused such a
large gathering In front of the Couht
House that the street really was ob
Btrnucted. Officers Ford, Holden,
Harr and Pltzer went to the scene
of obstructed traffic and arrested the
two constables and the auctioneer.
The officers of the county resisted,
Leslie Michaels pulling a revolver and
threatening to do bodily harm to Tom
Ford. Tho city police had been noti
fied that there would be trouble
should they attempt to arest Michaels
and were, prepared for the emergency
They sod'n forced Michaels to change
his mind.
Shortly after the release of Mich
.aels and 8atterfield, they went to tho I
court house and secured warants I
against Mayor Anthony Bowon, Chief |
of Police Fred Harr, officers Tom Ford j
and Pltter. These warants charged!
that Michaels and Satterfleld were in
the discharge of their legal duty and
that while so engaged were interrupt
ed by the men mentlonod in the war
rants. .
For a while It seemed as there was
to be trouble about serving the war
rants on the city police. Michaels
wanted to serve tho warrants, but was
refused. He then suggested that Sat
terfleld serve warrants on the men
who arrested Michaels and that Mich
aels serve warants on the men who
Bted Satterfleld. Sheriff Cal Con
away scenting trouble served the war
rants himself. He hold the officers
toxoid the warants until he could go
ontBlde the court house to bet another
man. While outside the office he
telephoned to the pollco and mayor
to. come to the court house as there
had been warrants Issued for them.
They came to the court house and
ea$h provided $200 bond for their ap
pearance when needed.
(State Convention of Organi
1 zation Will Open Tomor
I row Evening.
Organization Was Born in
This City Quarter Cen
tury Ago.
Two hundred delegates from all ov
er the state are expected to arrive
in the city tomorrow afternoon and ev
ening to attend the twenty-fifth annual
convention of the West Yirginla Chris
tian Endeavor Union which opens in
this city Tuesday night. Louis E.
Black of Parkersburg, president of the
state organisation and Miss Lena Rut
tencutter of Clarksburg, secretary,
will be among the early arrivals to
morrow and Karl Lehman, of Bir
mingham, Alabama, southern states
secretary for the United Society of
Christian Endeavor, who will remain
for the entire convention will also ar
rive tomorrow afternoon. Ralph E.
Mitchell well known in Fairmont as
choir director of the Milford Lyons
ovangellstic party which conducted a
campaign in this city several years
ago, is scheduled among the early
arrivals in order to be in readiness to
start the work of the chorus choir of
fifty voices Tuesday night.
Miss Nell Layman is chairman of the
local convention commlttete and asso.
elated with her in the work of ar
rangements are Miss Goldle Robey,
secretary, Cecil McDonald, treasurer,
H. Robb Furman, chairman Decoration
Committee; Mrs. W. F. SheafTermai.,
chairman of entertainment; H. C.
Pltzer, chairman of Finance; Leo Pat
terson, chairman of Reception; Miss
' Madge Helmick, chairman of registra
tion; Miss Sadlee Lloyd, chairman of
music; W. H. Stanhagen, chairman
of publicity and Miss Rose Gaskill,
chairman of the social committee.
So far the work of he committee
on entertainment has been successful
and entertainment has been provided
for all delegates who have reported
by letter. Entertainment is on the
Harvard plan.
It has been tho aim of the officers
of the convention and committees to
make the convention a memombie
one. The organization was created
in Salem in February, 1891 and the
first conventin was held in this city
1 the following July. The sessions were
held in the old High school chapol at
1 the comer of Main and Quincy streets
on account of ropairs being made In
the old M. P| "Church on iTie Hill,"
now tho M. P. Temple, but the denom
| inatlon were the hosts of the cnoven
tion. Among people who will attend
I the convention la Mrs. Lilly D. Ham
1 llton who was present at the organiza
itlon of the convention in Salem.
1 Notable among the speakers for the
con^ntion this week 1b the name of
I Dr. Carolyn Geisel of Battle Creek,
Mich., a member of the famous flying
squadron who last year toured the
United States in the intorest of tem
perance and who will address the con
vention on Thursday evening.
Dr. Geisel Is a friend of Mrs. U.
A. Clayton of this city and will be en
tertained in tho Clayton home during
her visit here.
But Twelve More Days for the
Seven Thousand Club to Run
Outside of the big 53,200 prize
Hat, ono of the most attractive fea
tures of The West Virginian Seven
Thousand Club is the short length of
time over which the campaign will
run. Less than two weekB?Just
twelve more days to be exact?until
the gong sounds for the close, the
judges will take charge of the ballot
box, and the work of determining
the: many happy winners will begin.
The big Overland touring car with
complete equipment, is waiting for
iitaVowner. All the other prizes are
ready. In the bank are hundreds of
dollars to be paid out in liberal cash
salaries to those who remain active
/until the close, and who fail to win
one of the big prizes. No one can
lose. Everyone will receive sure pro
lit. provided they remain active and
turn In not less than one subscrip
tion a week during these next two
Big Special Offer.
It will pay you to go after sub
scriptions every day betwen this and
July close of the campaign.
~>ere are many to b'o had every
ere. and it is up to you to get
too late to do you
any good. Don't bqg for them. The
West Virginian is too big for that
Just go to them and tell them that
you have come to write up their sub
scription to The West Virginian be
cause it Is the leading family news
paper In Central West Virginia.
Show them the many good features,
explain how it will help you to win
a prize, and you will never fall to se
cure the most of the prospects upon
whom you call. To mako this sub
scription work especially attractive
this week, we are making a big spe
cial bonuB offer as follows:
What the Special Offer Is. ">? ?
With each club of five subscrip
tions for one year, or their equiva
lent, Forty-Five Thousand Extra
Votes will be given free. The aub
scriptlona may be either old or new,
back accounts or advance paymenta,
for any length of time from three
montha up. The bonua votea will be
In addition to the regular votea on
each subscription. Make up your
mind that you will establish a rec
ord, and Incidentally, win one of the
many splendid prizes while this of
fer Is in force.
(Continued on Pa**
STZSS URGES ROOSEVELT
INOPEN LETTER TO PROGRESSIVES
;Declares That Best Way to
Work for Progressive
Principles.
COUNTRY'S WELFARE
BIG ISSUE AT PRESENT
It Will Be Safe Only in Keep
ing of Republican Nom
inee.
NEW YORK, Juno 26.?In a letter
to the Progressive National commit
tee which was made public here to
day Col. Theodore Roosevelt formally
declines the presidential nomination
tendered him by the Progressive Na
tional convention and makes a fervent
plea to the Progressives of the nation
to support Charles E. Hughes, who,
he says, hsa shown in his career the
Instinct of efficiency which will guar
antee that, under him, the government
will once more work with vigor and
force.
Colonel Roosevelt makes It plain
that in thus acting he 1b not aband
oning the principles of the Progres
sive movement. On that point he de
clares:
Sooner or later the national prin
ciples championed by the Progres
sives of 1912 must in their general
effect be embodied In the structure
of our national existence. With
all my heart 1 shall continue to
work for these great ideals, shoul
der to shoulder with the men and
women who in 1912 championed
them; and I am sure that those
mon and women will show a like
loyalty to the other, the fundamen
tal, Ideals which the events of the
past two years have proven to be
vital to the permanency of our na
tional existence. The method by
which we are to show our loyalty
to these ideals muatbe determined
in each case by the actual event.
Our loyalty is to the fact, to the
principle, to the Ideal, and not mere
ly to the name, and least of all to
the party namo.
Taking up the matter uppermost in
his own mind and the minds of the
voters who followed him in 1912 Col
onel Roosevelt calls attention to the
fact that while tho Progressive party
has done much for the Progressive
movement in this country "it has be
come entirely evident that the people
under existing conditions are not pre
pared to accept a new party." Contin
uing he says: /
"It is impossible for us Progressives
to abandon our convictions. But we
are faced with the fact that as thfngs
actually aro the Progressive National
organization no longer offers the means
whereby we can make these convic
tions effective in our national life. Un
(Continued on Page 7.)
MOTORCYCLE COP
TO BE ON DUTY SOON
His Bond Was Filed With
Board of Affairs
i Today.
Charles W. Edwards today filed with
the Board of Affairs at it's regular
meeting his oath /ot office as special
policeman. Edwards has been hired
for the Job of motorcycle cop and
will be provided with a wheel as soon
as one can be purchased. He will bo
armed with speed regulations and will
covor the city dally watching speed
ers carefully. It is reported that any
one caught speeding from now on will
not be given the minimum as has been
the case heretofore, but will be severe
ly punisbd for the trouble he causes.
W. A. Digman recently appointed
cop also presented bond as police
man. L. H. Orr and J. G. Lloyd were
securities.
Attorney M. L. Sturm appeared be
fore the Board in behalf of property
owners on State street and presented
a petition asking the Board to consid
er the paving of that street from
the Juncture of the road to the end of
the pavement. The matter was refer
red to Commissioner A. L. Lehman
who will investigate more thorough
ly and report on the details connect
ed with such a proposition.
The Board made allottment this
morning of the old brick on Locust
avenue. It waa distributed among the
following property owners and their
agents: C. C. Toothman and others,
R. A. Shurtleff and others, 0. Wades
worth, C. D., Fleming and others.
The following lioenaes were grant
ed: W. B. Moran,restaurant; Coffey
House, Fairmont avenue; Skinner's
Tavern, Cleveland avenue; Boyd An
derson, restaurant; J. A- Sumpter,
restart ant; Manley and Watson hotels
saw iw
Nearly $20,000 or more than a third
n( the $50,000 they intend to raise is
the goal the Presbyterian Church
Fund Campaigners have set them
selvA for tho result of the first of the
five day task of obtaining funds with
which to build their new church build
ing. At press time of the West Vir
elnian this afternoon the men of the
advisory committee who are directing
the workers in the campaign said that
when the clock was turned up tonight
a surprise would be shown to the
ceoole of Fairmont.
Beginning early this morning the
enthusiastic soliciting teams reported
at the headquarters in tho First Na
tional Bank residence and were as
signed to various prospective contri
butors. Under the leadership of the
captains of each team tbo> two rival
groups of teams worked hard all day to
make the best showing possible for
their division. Ex-gov. A. B. Fleming
is tho chairman of the four teams A.
B. C. and D., and M. Hartley is the
chairman of the teams numbered 1
2 3 and 4. Thus eight teams of teu
memberrf each are scouring the city
for the needed funds. Tho organiza
tion of the campaign is practical and
marvelously efficient 'EveVy person
in Fairmont who Is at all a possible
contributor has boen tabulated on the
books of the advisory committee, to
gether with all manner of information
an to the habit and peculiarities ot
8UCh person.
All of the team members returned
to headquarters at noon today and most
encouraging .reports were returned. It
was thought best to immediately re
turn to the active work of interview
ing contributors and no total of the
morning's work was made. The clock
band which will show the* progress of
the work will be moved up tonight
at eight o'clock to show the sum raised
throughout the entire day. Member?
of the committee who had knowledge
of many of tho subscriptions that had
been received at noon estimated that
the total tonight would reach between
$18,000 and $20,000. Fortified with a
hearty luncheon served them by tho
ladles of the Legion at nooa the teams
renewed their efforts this' afternoon
**?ith a determination to make the firs*
of the campaign the most success
**?i of any. . r ' r ?,
That the members of the church are
determined to make this campaign a
success Iff shown by the wording of the
pledge slips used to secure subcrip
tlons to the fund which provides that
unless the entire sum of $50,000 is
?>edgod by tho night of Friday; Jup*
30, all of the pledge slips secured will
be valueless. However with the opti
mistic assurance of success that per
vades the campaigners such a con
tingency as this will not be slowed tr
?rise and by Friday evening they ar*
determined to push ,the clock' hands
entirely around the dial to the $60,
000 mark.
MAYOR 18 REPORT
UN NEW BRIDGES
Chamber of Commerce Meet
j irig Promises to Be
nteresting.
A special meeting of the Fairmont
Chamber of Commerce called for this
afternoon at four o'clock promises to
be one of considerable importance.
Mayor Bowen who is chairman of the
Bridge Committee is scheduled to re
port and will likely have a definite
proposition to submit at Uie meeting.
This will be the flrat general meeting
since the; new Industrial Enginer, P.
R. Spoed has been secured and will
give all the members the oportunity
to meet Mr. Speed.
Prior to the meeting of the Cham
ber this afternoon the Industrial com
mittee met .with Mr. Speed and the
final details of the contract under
which he is to work were completed.
All of the information in the hands of
this committtee will be played at the
disposal of Mr. Speed so that he can
complete his work of classification
and tabulation of the industries and
resources of the community. as soon
as possible. ?
Mrs. Alma S. Baker
Died Sunday Night
Mrs. Alma Garrett Baker wife of
S.N. Baker, of Center street, died Sun
day night at 6 o'clock at Cook hospi
tal where she had been a patient for
a week.
Mrs. Baker was aged 45 years and
is survived by her second husband and
one child. Miss Pauline Talklngton,
beside her parents, Mr. and Mrs. W.
H. Garrett, of Wallace, and several
brothers and sisters, namely: Jerome
Garrett, of Fairmont; Clarence, \
Paden City;' Curtis, of Haywood; Er
nest, of Lima, JV. Va,; Mrs. H. L. Mus
grave, of Littleton; Mrs. G. L. Riddle,
of Gordon, Kan.; Mrs. H. C. Ice. of
Barrackville; Mrs. H. L. Lyon, of Hay
wood.
Mrs. Baker with her family had re
sided in the city for six years and dur
ing the time had made many friends
who regret her untimely death. She
was a member of the First M. E.
church. Mr. Baker is a member of
the merchantlle firm Garrett t Baker
in the Eighth ward.
Funeral services will be held on
Tuesday from the residence at 2:30 j
p. m. and will be conducted ay Rev.
Mr, Mitchell of theTChristlan church.
Interment will be made In Woodlawu
cemetery by Undertaker Musgrave &
Son.
-;T;he Weather.v^
West Virginia?Fair tonight and
warmer in east. Tuesday probably
showers.
LOCAL WEATHER READINGS.
F, P. Hall, Observer.
Temperature at 8 a m. today 62.
Yesterday's weather, clear; temper
ature. maximum. 85; minimum, 57;
precipitation, none.
Sfe ?. >/. sJLj
Prisoners Not the Big Issue Betwee:
the Two Countries at This Time;
Say Diplomats
. . ?. j
UIIK AMERICAN GOVERNMENTS ACTIVf
American Column in Mexico Is Said to Total 12,000 Men,"
Fit and Ready for Anything That
May Happen.
ANOTHER CLASH REPORTED
COLUMBUS, N. M., June 26?A repot was curreri
here today that another clash of American and Gar
ranza troops had occurred in the vicinity of Villa
Ahuamada. Army officers here have not confirmed
Ififc
(By Associated Press.)
WASHINGTON, June 26.?Whether a state of war shall exist b<
(Keen the United States and the de facto Government of Mexico
on the formal declaration of policy by Gen. Carranza, expected hourly to
day in response to the note telegraphed to Mexico City yesterday by Sec
rctary Lansing.
The American Government will insist on the imediate release of cav
men captured at Carrizal, as demanded in the note, but high offiaut;K|i
administration explained in interpreting the communication that the course ol
the United States will be determined by Carranza's final statement of hit
intentions toward the American expedition in Mexico to protect tfce'bordei
rather than on the specific circumstances of the Carrizal incident
It was pointed out that Secretary Lansing's note did hot found
demans on a statement that the Mexicans precipitated the fight. Ap.
the question has no direct connection with the course President Wilson i
pursuing. The Mexican note saying that Gen. Carranza personally dii
that Gen. Trevino resist any movement of American troops in Mexico (
in retirement toward the border is the real issue.
The Washington Government construes this action as a formal Avowal
of deliberately hostile action. It demands that if this is Carranza'* pur
he so state it through regular diplomatic channels. Aside from die c
matic impropriety of making a subordinate military officer a medium of
munication, the state department recalls numerous instances wheie the I
of military commanders have later been disavowed by the de facibtsmj
ment, and it is known that many of Carranza's commanders are not fully t
der control. ? ?'
It is understood that Mr. Wilson plans to tell Congress that if I
ranza intends to adhere to, his present avowed policy that the de facto!(
ernment of Mexico is waging war against forces of the United States
ployed in protecting the American border.
Six Central and South American republics through representatives I
inquired informally today'of Eliseo Aredondo, General Carranza's amba
dor designate, whether his government would accept offers of mediation!'!
the crisis between Mexico and the United States.
PERSHING HAS 12,000 MEN.
EL PASO, June 26.?General Pershing's punitive expeditionary
force in Mexico is ready for action if action is necessary.
Today according to the best information here, his southernmost outpost
is near El Valle, less than 50 miles from Colonia Dublan, the base.
It is believed that from El Valle a large and mobile force may be pointed
eastward in a strategic positoin toward the Mexican Central railroaxL'
In the neighborhood of 12,000 men in splendid lighting trim, compOM
Gen. Pershing's army. Reports from the front indicate the highest moral*
among the men. Equipment has been put in the best of condition. Honei
and mules have been tr^d until only the fit and strong remain. Nine axx
tor trains loaded with st^plies for the advance are lined up. Every empty
truck which remained at Columbus has been sent to the front to aid in the
speedy transportation of infantry.
THIRD GUARD CO.
CERTAINTY HERE
Grafton Patriots May Be
Given Chance to Join
It.
There will be a third company of
National Guard leaving Fairmont
when the first First regiment does
leave If it necessary to get part of the
company from Grafton. This state
ment was made by Adjutant Claud H.
Layman Saturday in a telephonic talk
with Captain Charles Burke of Graf
ton*.. -
There has been a little trouble In
ralalng a company of National Guard
in Grafton but there have been some
few requests. These men will be giv
en a chance to take part In th hostili
ties should any of the-First regiment
be called even if, they have come
to Fairmont to?get enlisted in the
third company. herimMMfHBfl
It seems very few have desires to
be peace soldiers. Only too many
have said "If there Is a chance for
Thaveno particular desire tojotii^
the Guard." In order to i
Captain U. A. Knapp has
with the captains of the two
panlea and with Col. C. L.{i
all applications for cnllitmi
up until the call for the-:
ment Is made. ThlB will keep >11 ap
plicants out of the Guard In the evenr
that the First Infantry, West Virginia,
Is not called. &??)jf?
When war Is declared If It <
Is, these applications wllltlWj rushed
through In a bundle. This arrange
ment Is perfectly In accord with til
regulations, according to COV C. I
Jolllffe, Plrat Infantry. sfj?m
Two or three Spartan mothers who
were asked by their sons to sign pa.
pere permitting them UHoin the Na>
tlonal Guard did so, eren with the
frlghtfulness of the European war
fresh In tholr minds. One mother said
"It breaks my heart to cee Ml"'' **?'' 1
go to war, anybody'a son, hut Td I
rather sign papers, know whaf'
panj- he Is with and keep tnett
movements than to hare him r
to some city and lobrudSt
me probably forever.
i i _igi
GUESTS IN PARKER8BUR
Mrs. T&N; Yost and daughter
Misses Helen Stephenson and 11
et Ann Yost who had been th? guests
o fthe former's father. Rev. H. M.
Smith lu Montgomery are spending a
few days with friends In Parkersburg
en route home. They will reach tiara
during the week.
.* - ?*?
v
: . i
