THE BARBE DAILY TIME
S
VOL. XX NO. 87.i
BARKE, VERMONT, MONDAY, JUNE 20, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
OPEN DEFIANCE
BY CARRANZA
MEANS WAR
United States Government
Demands Release of the
American Prisoners and
Early Statement of the
Purpose of the De Facto
Government of Mexico
CARRIZAL ATTACK
WAS DELIBERATE
at few miles of Xaco. The soldiers are
using sandbags and are not digging
trenches. Two hundred soldiers are on
guard here. Xaco citizens have begun
the organization of home guards and
have asked that more troops be sent.
GERMANS FORCED
OUT OF TRENCH
ON W EST FRONT
CAPT. MORELY SAVED,
PERSHING HEARS
Carranza Notifies State De
partment Thatthe Attack
Was Direct Result of Or
der Sent by Him to Gen.
Trevino and Communicat
ed to Pershing
j Washington, D. C, June 26. Secretary
Lansing's note to the de facto govern
ment, demanding the immediate release
of the American troopers taken prisoner
at Carriza, coupled with the stern notifi
cation that the United States expects an
early statement of the Carranza govern
ment, reached Mexico City last night,
and Special Agent Rodgers arranged to
deliver it immediately, this was report
ed in a cablegram from Rodgers, sent last
night and received to-day. There was
nothing in the message to indicate how
the demand was received or when a reply
might be expected.
The note discloses that the state de
partment received Saturday a communi
cation from the de facto government,
stating that the Carrizal fight was the
direct result of orders to attack Ameri
can soldiers moving otherwise than to
ward the border, personally sent by Gen.
Carranza to Gen. Trentitio, and by the
latter communicated to General Persh
ing. In reply, Secretary Lansing reouiriea
that the de facto government transmit a
definite statement "as to the courte of
action it has determined upon" through
the usual diplomatic channels "and urit
through subordinate military officials. '
The text of the note to the dc facto
government is as follow:
"Mr. Arredondo yesterday delivered to
this government the following communi
cation: '"I am directed by my government to
inform your excellency, with reference,
to the Carrizal incident, that the chief
executive, through the Mexican war de
partment, gave orders to General Jacinto
B. Trevino not to permit American forcts
from General Pershing's column to ad
vance farther south, nor to move either
east or west from the points where they
are located, and to oppose new incursions
of American soldiers into Mexican terri
tory. These orders were brought by Gen.
Trevino to the attention of Gen. Tenth-
ing, who acknowledged the receipt of the
communication relative there to. On the
22d instant, as your excellency knows, an
American force moved eastward quite far
from its' base, notwithstanding the above
orders, and was engaged by Mexican
troops at Carrizal, state of Chihuahua.
As a result of the encounter, several men
on both sides were killed and wounded,
and seventeen American soldiers wer.
made prisoners.'
"You are hereby instructed to hand
to the minister of foreign relations of the
tie facto government the following:
"'The government of the United
States can put no other construction
upon the communication handed to the
secretary of state of the United States
on the twentv-fourth of June, bv Mr.
Arredondo, under instructions of your
government, than that it is intended as
a formal avowal of deliberately hostile
action against the forces of the United
States now in Mexico, and of the purpose
to. attack them without provocation
whenever they move from their present
position in pursuance of the objects for
which they were sent there, notwith
standing the fact that those objects not
only involve no unfriendly intention to
wards the government and people of
Mexico, but are on the contrary intend
ed only to assist that government in pro
tecting itself and the territory and peo
ple of the United States against irre- i
sponsible and insurgent bands of rebel
marauders.
""I am instructed, therefore, by my
government, to demand the immediate
release of the prisoners taken in the en
counter at Carrizal, together with ony
property of the United States taken with
them, and to inform you that the govern
ment of the United States expects an
early statement from your government
as to the course of action it wishes the
government of the United States to tin
dcrstand it has determined upon
Note Found on Body of Capt. Boyd De
clared that Gomez Invited Him Into
. Carrizal for Conference, But
Boyd Refused.
Field headquarters, Mexico, Sunday, by
wireless to Columbus, X. M., June 20.
Twenty-three American soldiers are
known to have lost their lives at Carri
zal, according to a report to Pershing
from Major Jenkins who is scouring the
country for survivors. The report told
of the rescue of Captain Lewis Sidney
Morey, who had been reported dead.
A note which was found on the body
of Captain Boyd stated that Gomez in
vited him into the town and when he
refused he conferred with him on the,
outside, but it threw no new light on the
clash.
French Captured Prt of Position Be
tween Fumin and Chenois Woods
and Repulsed Attack West of
Thiaumont.
Paris, June 26. In a night attack the
trench captured a part of a German
trencli between rumin and Cnenms
woods in the Verdun sector, and a Ger
man attack west of Thiaumont was re
pulsed, according to the official state
ment. A heavy artillery duel is in prog
ress west of the Mouse.
COMES
BRITISH SHOW ACTIVITY.
British Official Report Says There Has
Been Fighting for Two Days.
Berlin, June .26. The fighting activi
ty in the western theatre on fronts oc
cupied by the British and the north wing
of the french army is important and
has been so for the past two days, says
the German official statement.
AUSTRIANS FLEEING
BEFORE ITALIANS
IN TRENTINO
MOREVS WIFE GETS WORD.
Wireless Message Says Her Husband is
Safe in Mexico.
San Antonio, Texas, June 26. (Mexi
can) Capt. Lewis Sidney Morey is safe,
having reached the main body of Ameri
can troops with two of his men.
General Funston received a message by
telephone last night from Mrs. Morey at
Austin, Tex., that she had had a w ireless
message from him from "Soruwhere in
Mexico" to that effect.
General Retreat Being Carried Out Over
a Front of 20 Miles and Italians are
Pressing the Pursuit
Vigorously.
Rome, June 26. A general retreat of
Austriens in the Trentino district over
a sector of about 20 miles in extent was
announced in an official statement of the
Italian war office to-day. The statement
says that the Italians are pressing the
pursuit vigorously.
OUT FOR
HUGHES
. ; - .
Theodore Roosevelt Declared
That the Republican Norn
inee Measures" Up to the
Standard of Americanism
Desired and Is "Incompar
ably" Better Than Wilson
WILL WORK HARD FOR
HUGHES' ELECTION
Roosevelt Issups Statement
in Which He Thanks the
Progressives but Declines
to Run for President He
Lashes the 'Professional
German-Americans" -
PERSHING'S 12,000
MEN ARE READY
FOR ACTIVE WORK
Troops Are in Splendid Trim and Equip
ment Is in Fine Condition Carranza
Reported to Be Dickering
with Villa.
El Paso, Tex., June 26. Pershing's ex
peditionary force in Mexico is ready for
action if action is necessary. His south-
moat outpost is near El Vulle, less than
50 miles from Colorna Dublan. the main
base. In the neighborhood of 12,000 men
in splendid fighting trim compose Per
shing's forces, their equipment is in fine
condition and the horses and mules are
fit and strong.
Information reached here to-day from
an apparently reliable source that Villa
had reached an agreement with the de
facto. government and that this was be
ing used to induce his followers to join
the Carranza forces.
CARRANZA FORCES
A GENERAL OUT
FOR DISOBEDIENCE
Gen. Alfredo Ricaut Displaced in Com
mand of Northeastern Border Patrol
Because He Failed to Attack
Americans on June 17.
Laredo. Tex., June 26. Carranzu has
removed Gen. Alfredo Ricaut, commander
of the northeastern Mexican border pa
trol, and reinstated Gen. Kmiliano Xafar
rette, now at Tampico, it was unofficially
announced to-day. The change is said to
have been due to Ricaut's failure to at
tack the American forces that crossed the
river, pursuing bandits, June 17.
FAIR HAVEN STATION ROBBED.
About $300 Worth of Property Stolen
Saturday. Night.
Fair Haven, June 26.- Sometime Sat
urday night, probably between 11 and
12 o'clock, the ticket office of the Dela
ware and Hudson railroad Mere was en
tered, the safe opened and rilled. The
burglar secured 20 50-mile mileage books,
a small sum of money and some tickets.
The safe was evidently opened by work
ing the combination.. It is believed that
a recently discharged prisoner from a
Xew York state prison made the break
as a man, said to have been released
from a Xew York prison was in Fair Ha
ven Saturday night and between 11 and
12 o'clock is said to have been in the
Palace bowling alley and to have offered
to sell a full IX and H. mileage for $5.
Entrance to the station was made
through a window. The burglar tore the
inside of the safe out in getting at tttu
iron "strong box" containing tickets and
cash. The box was carried awav as was
the ticket dating stamp. Both were
found yesterday by bovs at a swimming
hole in the river. The box contained a
bank check, w hich had been disfigured by
water, some pencils and other articles.
Chicago, June 26. Theodore Roosc
velt to-day formally declined the Tro
gressive party nomination for president
of the Lnited States and announced his
Intention to work for the election of
Charles Evans Hughes, the Republican
nominee. Roosevelt addressed a state
ment to the Progressive national com
mittee in which he thanked the Progres
sive party for the nomination but de-
cared that the movement to defeat Wil
son would require a united opposition.
His statement is as follows:
A SERIOUS FRACAS
AT LYNDON VILLE
STRUCK BRITISH WARSHIP.
Massachusetts National Training Ship
Ranger Not Seriously Damaged.
Xew York, June 26. The Massachu
setts nautical training ship Ranger was in
collision in a dense fog early to-day with
a British warship on patrol duty oil
Montauk Point, Long Island, but neither
was seriously damaged. .
VERMONT BUSINESS TROUBLES.
Bethel Firm Files in Bankruptcy; Has
Debt of $3,510.40.
Rutland. June 26. George E. Kimball
and Stanley Putnam, doing a grocery
business at Bethel under the firm name
of Kimball 4 Putnam, filed a petition in
bankruptcy with Lnited States ( lerk F.
S. Piatt Saturday. The firm has liabili
ties of $.1,510.40 and assets of 3.0O-..-?l).
Mr. Kimball has liabilities of $1.5.10.76
and assets of $2.50, all exempt.. Mr. Put
nam has liabilities of $1,111.04 and as
sets of $250, all exempt.
Men Claim They Were Hired to Work in
Open Shop and Were Put Out of Tem
per When They Were Asked to
Be Strikebreakers.
Lvndonvule, June 26.-Seven men were
arrested vesterdav after cauisng a dis
turbance, by Sheriff V. F. Worthen of
St. Johnsbury. The men came here in
response to an advertisement and were
to work with strikebreakers who have
been operating since the Boston & Maine
trackmen went out.
The men came from New York Satur
day night and say they understood they
were to have work in an open shop. When
they found that they were to act as
strikebreakers they demanded return
fare to Xew York.
They were refused, and in the fracas
which followed it is said that Foreman
Steele of the crew- drew a revolver. Sev
eral blows were struck and a hurry call
was sent to St. Johnsbury for officers.
BEATEN ON HEAD.
CASEMENT TRIAL STARTS.
Alleged Irish Rebellion Leader Entered
Formal Plea of Not Guilty.
London. June 26. The trial of Sir
Roger Casement, accused of instigating
and -the recent Irish rebellion, was started
that it also expects that this statement
1-e made through the usual diplomatic
rhannels, and not through subordinate
military commanders.'"
BUILD BREASTWORKS
OF SAND BAGS AT
NACO, ARIZ.
United States Soldiers Are Preparing for
1,500 Mexicans, Who Are Reported
lo Hare Arrived a Few
Miles Off.
Naro. Ant., June 26.- United States
Kld.ers were engaged to-day in erecting
lme of br-twork in a northeasterly
dsrection near the border from the United
States immigration office
This action was taken followinjr a re
eipt of rr-rta considered authentic that t
Mexican troops bad armed with a
j to-day. the prisoner making a forms!
plea, of not guilty. The jury being com
pleted. Sir Frederick Smith made the
opening ddres for the government,
dwelling upon the gravity of the treason
and said that the jury would have to de
cide if there were any extenuating cir
cumstances. Two government official testified re
garding Casement's record in the consular
service and his receipt of a pension on re
tirement. Private John (Yonin described
Casement's attempts to gain enlistments
among Irish prisoner in Germany.
NEW BANKRUPTCY REFEREE.
Atty. Thomas H. Browne of Rutland
Appointed.
Rutland. June 6. Atty. Thomas H
Brown of Proepect street has been ap
pointed refer in bankruptcy for the
distrn-t e-f Vermont, th county of Rut
land, succeeding Atty. Ernest 1L O'Brien.
Marcellino Campo Said to Have Been
Attacked in Game of "Bootch."
Marcellino Campo. aged 31, a granite
cutter, is at the City hospital receiving
treatment for a scalp wolind and the po
lice are conducting a search for two, men
who are alleged to have assailed him on
Circle street Saturday afternoon. Police
headquarters was not notified of the fra
cas until Sunday morning. State's Atty.
F. E. Glcason came to the citv to-day to
make an investigation.
Details of the fight, as reported by a
compatriot of Campo, indicate that the
trouble started while a game of "hootch"
was in progress on an alley at 46 Circle
street. There is said to have been bad
blood between Campo and other men who
were either watching the game or par
ticipating. According to the information
received hy the police. Campo was seized
by on of the men while hi companion
used a ten-pin effectively. Once Campo
broke away from his assailants and
started down the road. He was overtak
en by the pair and received another beat
ing.
Campn was removed to the hospital
and Pr. J. W. Stewart was called to at
tend him. The scalp wound is of a se
rious nature, but it is thought that the
man will recover.
Upon learning of the affair, the poli. e
set about to investigate the circum
stances. The state's attorney was noti
fied and inquirtes were made over the
telephone yesterday, it is said. There is
little doubt that the men involved in the
attack on Campo re in hiding, although
it is possible that they may have left the
cit v.
Clayton Spencer of Currier street went
yesterday to WilLamstown, where l.e
will spend a few days visiting with rel
atives and friends.
B. J. Favette. proprietor ef te Ver
mont Fruit company, was in the ci'r
Saturdsr on business connected with hi
anrh stire on Cramt street. Mr
Farette returned t P'irl rrt" Saturday
evenir.r.
To the Progressive National Committee:
Gentlemen : In cconianra with the mcaaafre
I ent lo the Proa-reanive national convention as
soon as I had received th notification that it
had 'nominated me for president, I now com
municate to you my reason for declining- the
honor which I so deeply appreciate. Since the
adjournment of the convention, t hav received
between two and three thousand letters and tel
nirtmi from men who had uoported me for
the nomination, the majority expressing the de
sire that 1 would ntfue to run, wihla a minor
kjr unred that I should acreot the nomination.
As it la a physical impossibility to anwer theee
letter and telegram individually. 1 be of the
courtesy of the aenden that they wiii accept
this public statement in lieu of such answers.
Before apeakina of anything- else. 1 wish to
express my heartiest and most unstinted admi
ration for the character and service of the
men and women w ho made up the Progressive
national convention in IttlS. I can iv them
no htuher praise than to say that in all re
spect they stood level with the men and wom
en who in 1912 joined at C'hii-afo to found the
Progressive party, these two conventions, in
character, in disinterestedness, in vision, in
insinht. In high purpose, and in desire to ren
der practical service to the people, typified ex
actly what such bodies ought to be in a great
self-governing democracy. They represented
the spirit which moved Abraham Lincoln and
his no it leal associate during the decade pre
ceding the cine of the Civil war. The platform
put forth in 1912 wa much the moBt important
public document promulgated in this country
since the death of Abraham Lincoln. It rep
risentrd the first effort on a large scale to
translate abstract formula of eroneoic and
social justice into concrete American national
ism ; the effort to apply the principles of
Washington and Lincoln to the need of the
I'nited States in the twentieth eenlury. No
fine effort was ever made to serve the Ameri
can ptople. in a spirit of high loyalty to all
that is loftiest in the American tradition.
Event have shown that the Progressive par
ty in 1912 offered the only alternative to the
triumph of the Democratic party. Moreover,
these event have ahown that the application of
the principles which we then advocated is even
more necessary to this nation than we at the
time auopoeed.
The resuli of the terrible world war of the"
who are willing to see, that in this country
who are willing to see. That in this country
there must be spiritual and Industrial prepar
edness, along the lines of efficiency, of loyal
service to the nation, and of practical applica
tion of the precept that each man must be his
brother keeper. Furthermore, it ia no leas
evident, that this preparedness for the tasks
f peace form the only sound basis for that
indispensable military preparedness wh-h rents
on universal military training and which finds
expression in universal obligatory service in
time of war. Such universal obligatory train.
ing and service are the necessary complement
of universal stiff rune, and represent the reali
sation of the true American, the democratic,
ideal in both peace and war.
Sooner or later these national principles
championed by the Pmgressivfn of 1 SI 2 must
their general enrrt be embodied In the
structure of our national existence. VAuh all
my heart I shall continue to work fe these
great ideals, shoulder to shoulder with the men
and women who in 1112 championed them;
and t am sure that these men and women will
show a like loyalty to th other, the funda
mental, ideals which the event of the past
two years have proven to be vital to the per
manency of our national existence. The meth
od by which we are to show our h-yalty to
these ideals must be determined in each case by
the actual event. Our loyalty is to th fact, to
the principle, to the ideal, and not merely to
the name, and least of nil to the party name
The Progressive movement ha been given an
incalculable impetus by what the Progressive
party has done. Our strongest party antag
onists have accepted and enacted into law. or
emhodid in their party platforms, very many
of our mot important principles. Much ha
bf en accomplished in awakening the public to
a better understanding of the problem of so
cial and industrial welfare.
Yet it haa become entirely evident that the
people under existing condition are not pre
pared to accept a new party.
It is impossible for us Progressive to aban
don our convictions. But we are faced with
the fact that as things actually a. the Pre
gressive naMonal orgs n tuition no longer offers
the means whereby we can make these convic
tions effective in our national life. I nder uch
cirrumslances, our duty is to do the best we
can. and not to sulk because our leadership i
rejected. That we ourselves continue to be
lieve that the course we advocated wa in the
highest interest of the American people is asi'le
from the question. It is unpsf-u-f t- to reftsse
to do the best possiMe merely h-cr.e the peo
ple have not put us in the position to do mhat
we regard as the very best. It remains for us. i
rood hinwed'T and with common sense, to
fsce the situation and endeavor to get out of It
the best that it can be made to yield froen th
TROOPS
LEAVE
TONIGHT
Vermont National Guard Is
Busy with Hurried Prepa
rations for Departure for
the Mexican Border, Hav
ing Taken the Oath for
Federal Service for Three
Years or Till Released
EXACT HOUR OF GOING
NOT DETERMINED
The Regiment Is Still Short
of War Strength Although
Recruits Are Coming in
All the Time Many Pro
motions and Appointments
Announced
Burlington, June 26 The 1st regiment,
ermont National Guard, received or
ders late last night from the department
f the east to entrain to-night, so far
s the regiment is ready to move, to
ra L. Keeves, commanding the rtgimtnt,
as not informed as to the destination
of the regiment nor as to the exact time
t departure. The troop will be ready to
move, with few exceptions.
The men of the infantry took the oath of
llegiance in the I nited State service
esterday. the oath being administered
the officers by Adjutant-General Le
IilloUon and by them, in turn, admin
istered to the enlisted men.. Ninetv pet
ut of the guardsmen took the oath and
hose who did not will be discharged ut
once, the oath is as follows:
"I do hereby acknowledge to have vol
untarily enlisted this .... day of
10 as h soldier in the National
usrd of the United States and of the
state of Vermont for the period of thne
years in service and three jears m re
serve, under the conditions prescribed
by law, unless sooner discharged by
proper authority.
"And I do solemnly swear that I will
bear true faith and allegiance to tho
United States of America and to the
state of Vermont and that I will scive
them honestly und faithfully sgaimt all
their enemies whosoever, and that 1 will
obey the orders of the president of the
I'nited States and of the governor cf
the state of Vermont and of the officers
apointed over me according to law, and
the rules and articles of war.
The administering of this oath marks
the transfer of the militia from the con
trol of the state to the control ot the
national government. Approximately M
officers and 1.1-0 privates were mustered
into the federal service. The miieteriiijr
n officer is r'irt Lieutenant J. t . vvat-
Colonel Reeves, who waa to command the
camp, the regular army officers, and the
cadet instructors are all called to active
service. All equipment, horses, etc., has
been called into the service of the United
States. It was hoped at first to continue
with the camps, but it was finally de
cided that the equipment and instructors
w ould be of more use in the service.
FOR SOLDIERS' RELIEF.
St. Albans Red Cross Offers Services to
Company B.
St. 'Albans, June 26. The St. Albans
branch of the American Red Cross
through its president, Mrs. Edward C
Smith, has offered its services to the
work of caring for the health and com
fort of the soldiers sent to Mexico from
this city and state. This prompt offer
lias been- accepted by Secretary Jornes
on behalf of the, Vermont chapter of the
Ked Cross. Mrs. Smith will appoint aux
iliary committees to assist in this work
for the aid of Co. B, 1st infantry, V. X
G., and the families of its members.
meeting to -organize and make plans for
this work will be held at an early date
The local Red Cross society has done
splendid work in aid of the soldiers in
foreign countries.
BAY STATE TROOPS
GOING TO EL PASO
Orders Came Giving Destination and
Troops Began Entraining at Fra-mingham.
Framingham, Mass., June 26. Guards
men are entraining to-day and will prob
ably start for the border before night
Orders mine to-day, ordering the Massa
chusetts men to hi Paso.
TO ENTRAIN IMMEDIATELY
14th Infantry of Brooklyn Prepared to
Go This Afternoon.
Peekskill. X. V.. June 26. The 14th in
fantry of Brooklyn has received orders
to entrain immediately and the officer
said they would get away this afternoon
BIG TRADE WEEK
CLOSED SATURDAY
Large Number of Shoppers Came to
Bane During the Period and Took
Advantage of the Many Op
portunities Offered By
Barre Stores.
i
erman, U. S. A., inspector-instructor of
the Vermont National Guard.
Promotions and Appointments.
Adjutant-General l.ee S. Tiilotaon an
tioiinred the following promotions and
new appointments yeterdav? Private
I Wallace Batchelder, 1st infantry, ap-
.-t . , . , 1 - . . , o, .,
pointed major, isi cavairy, ,iune is, im
Dr. Fred A. Kdmundu of Bethel, appoint
ed captain, medical corps, June 2-i, 1010.
Second Lieutenant Paul H. Gates of
Franklin, appointed first lieutenant and
battalion adjutant, June 10, 1!M0. Second
Lieutenant Walter R. Spaulding of Brat
tlelioro, 1st infantry, apjKiinted first lieu
tenant. lt infantry, June 21. MHO. Ser
geant Jethro Manly, U. S. cavalry, ap
pointed first lieutenant and battalion ad
jutant, 1st infantry, June. 24, 10J G. Wal
ter F. Adams, appointed sctond lieuten
ant, 1st infantry. June 20, 1916.. Koy B.
Miner of Brattlcboro, appointed second
lieutenant. 1st infantry. June 21, 1 11 It.
Weather conditions conducive to travel
by auto and team made Saturday the
busiest day of Barre trade week. Al
though heavy rains that prevailed
throughout the week were not wholly
favorable to shoppers, the volume of bus
iness wa unusually large from Satur
day, June 17, until the close of -trade
week Saturday evening. Naturallv the.
biggest day's business was registered on
the final dav, and while the merchants
were not expecting such an influx of out-of-town
shoppers, it may be said in all
truth that they were prepared.
Dailv, The 1 lmes office was called upon
to h.tndle many trade slips and a good
many dollars were paid out for carfares.
Hundreds of people were in the city and
thousands of dollars were spent by them.
By many of the merchants trade week
was described to-day as an unqualified
success.
One merchant is quoted as saying that
I'ist week was the biggest six days bus
iness recorded on his books with the ex
ception of two Christmas weeks, as they
are known to the trade. Another ex
pressed his opinion that the trade week
had stimulated business beyond his most
caiiguine hopes. A third merchant, while
going on record as being pleased with his
volume of sales, said he felt that the op
portunity to get acquainted with many
out-of-town people, whom he had never
known before, was worth more thin the
money diverted to his cash register.
As for those who took advantage of
Barre's trade week it is to lie chronicled
that the shoppers were wholly satisfied
with the inducements offered them to
trade in this city. There were those who
expressed surprise that Barre's mercan
tile establishments afford so many op
portunities for the retail buyer. Many
who came to the citv from a distance
were amply repaid by attractive carfare
rebates.
FALLING WHEEL
KILLED BOY
William W." Lafayette d
5, Struck on Back ue
Head and Pinne wn
WHEEL SUf .NDED
FROM PjlJ ON DOOR
Cow Struck Heavy Object
and Dislodged It from
Its Position
William Lafayette, the young son of
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Lafayette of the
west hill, met death in a peculiar man
ner early Sunday evening when he was
struck in the head by a heavy cart wheel,
which fell from a spindle on the barn
door as Mr. Lafayette was letting the
cows into the yard for the night.. Death
is believed to have been instantaneous,
although the lad's father hurriedly plated
his son in an automobile and rushed lii;n
to the office of Dr. J. W, Stewart in this
city.
Aceordinc to Mr. Lafavette. he had
been engaged in fainting one of the
wheels used on a heavy farm wagon. To
facilitate the work he hung the wheel on
a peg near the barn door. Children about
the place had been cautioned to keep
away from the wheel, which was not held
any too securely by the peg.
Around 6:30 o clock Mr. Lafavette.
having finished milking, released the
cows from their stanchions. Thti Best
cow to leave the barn brought its lie.id
against the barn door in such a way as
o push the cart wheel from its spindle
outside. The Lafavette bov was stand
ing with his back toward the barn, wait
ing to. aid in driving the cows from the
barn yard. When the wheel fell, the
eavy iron rim struck him in the back of
the head, crushing the base of the skull.
The elder Lafayette heard a scream from
his son and, hurrying from the barn,
found the lad lvjng on the ground under
the wheel. At the office of Dr. Stewart
he physician said that death must have
ensued very soon. Mr. Lafayette is of
the opinion that the little fellow had a
light pulse as he boarded the auto
with the bov in his arms, but the child
as dead before the party reached the
octor's office.
The child was five years old and is surv
ived bv his parents, four brothers,. F.r-
nest Lafayette, who is employed, in t'i;8
Holt barber shop, Perley Lafayette of
Windsor, Roland and Raymond La fay-
tte, who live at home. One sister,
Blanche Lafayette, lives with her par
ents.
It, is expected that the funeral will b
eld in St. Monica's church Tuesday aft
ernoon at 2 oelock. Rev. P. M. McKcnns
II officiate and interment will be made
the Catholic cemetery n Beckley
treet.
HONORS GIVEN OUT
WAS SICK ONLY A DAY.
William J. Marneil of 23 Maple Grove
Died Saturday.
William J. Macneit of 25 Maple Grove
passed away Saturday forenoon at 11:43
Regimental Sergeant-Major Raymond P. o'clock, the end following a brief illness.
Fuller, 1st infantrv. appointed second
lieutenant and battalion quartermaster,
1st infantry. June 21. 1016.. Ordnan.e
Sergeant William H. Morrill, appointed
second lieutenant, 1st infantry. June 21,
1916. Battalion Sergeant-Ma jor Arthur
L. I very of Burlitigt n, 1st infantry,
appointed regimental sergeant-major.
First Sergeant Robert X. Tease, C com
pany of Burlington, 1st infantry, ap
pointed battalion sergeant -be jur.
Norwich Cadets Not Included in Order.
The order to entrain does not include
the lt squadron of cavalry, made up
largely "f cadets of Norwich university, I '
, 1 -i i: . i : t ! t
ith a sprinkling of business men from
Bethel. It -is understood that the cav
alry arm of the Vermont National Guar!
has not been provided with equipment
and is not ready for departure to the
front.
MORE CO. H RECRUITS.
Six Montpelier Men and To Bane Mti
to Enlist.
Eight recruits left Montpelier this
forenoon to join Company H, V. N. G..
fhev beinff Herbert t'rapo. t-rsnci, .Mil
i lor. Frel Getcbell. Jame Kenworty,
tandrint of th interenta of hr nation aa a rtenry v-ilins ana r.nar.i i arm... an v.
fc.e. I Montpelier. and Uillism t lark tnd v ii-
TM ra the situatiwi at th equina- of !;., .1 Tlte. both of Barre.
rmxit tt -' rnt that an-l"""
la a eatan l'm " rT"i-t-',,tl I
tiMi ru!i m the f ,h.r is. j MILITARY CAMP ABANDONED.
Reth!!ra or the rVinorniir nornm. Th (
prA1 a4iwin1ratvi. aiHr iia thrw p- ' , , . ,
ef lif.. h.H hn atnitr of ,h-r.m,r,ra b- ; All tne instructors lor tiopnsea CCPOI
tvn tW ef ary aTnrtr!i-a ,tv- . -. ia in trv-lr
Mr. Macneil was stricken earlv Friday
morning and. from the outset his condi
tion was serious. Me was removed to
the City diopitaI Saturday forenoon and
death came as he was about to undergo
an operation for an inte-tinal obstruc
tion. The deceased i survived by his wife,
who was Mis Gertrude L. Rnlerson. to
w hom he was married in Chambly, P. O.,
July 12. lS.t: one daughter, Mrs." Arthur
V.. Bughee of Barre; and by three sons.
Arthur W. Macneil of Barre. Austin O.
Mm-ncil of Syracuse, N. V and Llovd O.
Macneil of this citv. There are aIo left
wo grandsons. eason Kii har,Uon Mae-
Xrthhd. June 2 O.i arrfnmt of tHe
neil. son of Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Macneil.
and Lloyd William Macneil, m of Mr.
and Mrs. L. (). Macneil. A sister of the
deceased. Mrs. Orin Litchfield, resides in
Fitchburg. Mass . There are two broth
ers. )anie! of Pittsburg. Pa., and Charley
of ( bingo. A third brother, John, died
in Ixiwell. Ma-.. in la.1. Mr. Macneil
wa born in ("larenceville, P. Q.. April 27.
1M6. In a, lone business career he w as
engaged at first in the dry goo bus
ine.s and th-n as a piano dealer, having
been ao-iated with the piano trade fr
several vrirs prior to his death. At one
time he was established in the dry grinds
line in Lowell. Ms.. beinjr a member of
the firm of Pnk A Macneil. Mr. Macneil
was held in high regard by thoe with
whom he came in contact in a business
wav and his un xpe-t"d demise is
mnrnd by many acffeiaintances. He
a Misnn and Iwlorzed tn the ln
dTen ient rdr of Foref"r.
At St. Monica's Sunday School, Which
Closed Yesterday.
St. Monica's Sunday school closed Sun
day for the summer months. The pupils
received their grade cards and were
awarded class honors. The following are
the names of those who won first honors
for the year:
Class prire. grade !, boys. Francis
Quinlin; honorable mention. Loans
O'Leary, Aubry Marrion. Class prize,
grade fl, girls, Doris Burke; honorable
mention, Dorothy Brown, Catherine Sullivan.
Class prize, grade 8. girls, Margaret
O'Keefe; honorable mention, Catherine
Hamel, Mildred Landers.
Class prir.e, grade 7, boys, Orpheus Bii:-
zozzero; honorable mention, rtnwirto l ro-
vost, Arthur Aldrighctti. Class prize.
grade 7. girls. Pauline Beck; honorable
mention, Annie Desscreau, t.ladyg Gro
gan. Class prize, grade 6. boys, Thomas Fitz
gerald; honorable mention, William Me
Nulty, Oral Bombrio. (lass prize, grade
6, girls, Marguerite Murphy; honorable
mention, Irene McDonald, Helen Kick-
ll"i!!l.
Class prize. gTade 5. girls. Henrietta
Arcfiambault. Kachel Biladeau: honorable
mention, Alice Phelps, Eileen Brown.
Class prize, grade 4. boys, Joseph
Roux; honorable mention. Kenneth
(Juard, James McNultv. (lass prize.
grade 4, girls, Misie iavia; nonoranie
mention. Beatrice OKeefe, Dorothy Mc
Mahon. t'laes prize, grade 3, boys. Henry De-
sereau; honorable mention, r.ari w nme.
Max Pombrio. ( lass prize, grade 3. girls.
Jeanette Ooteau: honorable mention.
Anna Mary Sullivan, Mary Kelly.
After the distribution of prizes, Re.
P. M. McKenna spoke to the children of
the joys and pleasures of vacation and
warned them wgainst some of its dangers.
Benediction followed and the children
were dismissed after the singing of the
hvmn, '"Holv God."
DEATH OF NICHOLAS FLOOD.
Resident of Northfield for 45 Years He
Had Shock Saturday.
Nicholas Flood of Northfield died at
Heaton hospital in Montpelier yesterday
aftr having been taken there Saturdiy
afternoon follow ine a sliork.
Hew as born in Ms rch. 142. in county. Ws -trrford.
Ireland, and he came to Mont
pelier -Vt years ago. residing in that place
for a few- years nd then going to North
field, where he had lived 43 years. He
was employed by the Centra! Vermont
Railway company nearly all that t'mw
and had many frirnds in this vicinity.
Ite leaves two daughter. Mrs. Fenno
Wetmre of Barre ind Mrs. Martin F.
M. Kenna of Montpelier: !o three step.
The funeral will be held in the litircli daughter. Mrs. B. A. Collm of North-
! t'le Irfmi Shepherd Tueslay fterrvn j fell. Mrs. John F. Fits:er'd of Melrose,
at 2 o.Iork. The rector. Fev. W. .1. M. M, and .Mr', .lor.n . lfcnn-Ur of -It-
ihe 6 pf Pjrhanan. Frrn the ai"tpiM ef 3
pa-"faJ h.rvr in4 interest. It s?vj o an j
R whsnM N n artmir s-1 ra-H-n in mir 11?T 1 TTt'0, l " s, -urn - ,
had iMi nvw to r he iv-m r4 i- e- ;f,nard. it has herome nerrssarT to fii'e Battie. will he the ofTiciatinS cleTvuian imaira Plain. Mas. The funeral will Ss
xw' "'11 !Ll2:-!iJi. iLl!!Iwi ff ,ho', f "ii.-'ishilMnl n'rrnent i to be made in Hopejh'H frm St. Atigvistin' church t
aietire w i r :a tas Keiiraa parti ronSict-. ' , 1 1 . .... . , .
hih was to urt at NorKh university rr.eterv. It is r'-qysted that Powers Montpelier Tuesday morning, anl inter-
a Ju'v 1 anl cmt.cie until Aivt II. be omitted. w n'"!, " hfieii.
(Orwt-nuel on fourti pT.
