Wig
TOW
' 3
VOL LVIII. NO. 97
JO. 97 POPULATION 28,219 NQ3HQ'1 CONN SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 1916 SIXTEEN PAGES. PRICE
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double Tha;uther Papt, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population.
PRICE TV0 CENTS
GERMAN
S HEAVILY
Especially Those in Positions Occupied by the French
In Their Last Attack Around 1 e Mort Homme
NO INFANTRY ENGAGEMENTS AROUND VERDUN
Paris Records the Occupation of a Portion of a Crater Made
by a German Mine in the Argonne Forest Russians Re
port Defeat of Offensive of Teutons at Various Points
In the Black Sea District of Asia Minor the Russians Con
tinue on the Offensive Another Defeat of the British
on the Tigris is Announced From Constantinople No
Change of Importance Has Been Made on the Austro-
Italian Front.
On all the fronts around Verdun the
Germans are heavily bombarding the
French positions, especially those oc
cupied by the French In their last at
tack around I-e Mort Homme, north
west of the fortress and in the sector
from the eastern bank of the House to
Fort Vaux. No infantry encasements
have taken place around Verdun al
though Paris records the occupation
of a portion of a crater made by a
German mine in the Argonne forest.
The Teutons in East Ualicia near
Popovogora went on the offensive
against the Russians, but Petrogrnd
asserts that their efforts were without
result. The bombardment by the Ger
mans of the Russians holding the
ikskull bridgehead is slill in progress.
Cabled Paragraphs
Turkish Commander Dies of Spotted
Fever.
Amsterdam, via London. April 22.
3.25 a. m. Baron Kolmar von der
Goltz, commander-in-chief of the first
Turkish army, died Wednesday of
epotted fever at the headquarters of
Ms Turkish army, according to an of
ficial announcement received here from
Berlin. He had been ill ten days.
Vera Cruz in Mourning On Annivers
ary of Landing of U. S. Troops
Vera Cruz. April 21. The second
anniversary of the landing- of Amer
ican troops in Vera Cruz was observ
ed today as a day of mourning.
Another British Ship Sent to Bottom.
London, April 21, 10.06 p. b. The
British ship Sabia has been sunk, ac
cording to the Central News. The cap
tain and 24 men of the crew were
landed.
STRIKE AT PITTSBURGH
WESTINGHOUSE PLANT,
Labor Leaders Claim That 6,300 Men
and Women Have Quit.
Stolen Securities
Have Been Found
THOSE TAKEN FROM FERRYBOAT
AT NEW YORK, FEB. 26.
ARE OF GREAT VALUE
On the Austro-Italian front there
have been the usual artillery duels
and at various points small infantry
engagements. At no point, however,
has any important change in position
taken place.
Petrograd reports that the Russian
Caucasion army continues on the of
fensive against the Turks in the Black
Sea district of Asia Minor. Constan
tinople in acknowledging the occupa
tion of Trebizond by the Russians,
says the town already had been evac
uated in anticipation of its capture,
the Turkish troops withdrawing in
accordance with instructions, to a
sector where they will have a new
task to tuinll.
Another defeat of the British on the
Tigris region near Kelahie is re
corded by Constantinople. The Brit-
Pittsbtirgh. April 21. A serious
strike which threatens to tie up the
plant of the Westinghouse Electric
and Manufacturing company in East
Pittsburgh was called late today. La
bor leaders claim that 6,300 men and
women have already quit work and
that a majority of the employes in
the entire plant will join the strik
ers tomorrow. President E. M. Hen
of the company denied that more than
2,000 were out. The company em
ploys 18,000 persons.
The strikers ask for an eight hour
day, an increase in wages and the
reinstatement of J. H. Hall, a me
chanic, and A. F. Tomasco, a mem
ber of the grievance committee of the
American Industrial union which is an
organization composed of employes ot
the company. Hal! was chairman of
the strikers' committee when 400 tool
makers went on 'a strike last March.
Many of those now out are employed
in departments making far munitions.
Were In Possession of Edward J,
Quigley, When Arrested in Baltiomre
on Suspicion Fought Against Ar
rest and Tried to Draw a Loaded
Pistol.
Baltimore, am, April 21. A man
giving the name of Edward J. Qulg
ley, having In his possession all the
securities stolen on a ferry-boat at
Xew York on Feb. 26, was arrested
here this evening.
Arrest Was Made en Suspicion.
The arrest was due to good luck on
the part of the postal authorities
Quigley was seized on suspicion -of
oeing wanted in St. Louis for raising
money orders. An alleged confederate.
uauuru vxeurso jr. v inCUUl, Was OT-
Investigators View
Signals at Bradford
MADE TRIP ON SPECIAL TRAIN
FROM PROVIDENCE
SAW THOROUGH TEST
Charles H. Mansfield Engineer of the
Gilt Edge, Testifies That the Dis
tance Signal Was Set at "Clear" and
the First "Home" Signal Against
Him.
CcndensedTelegrams PERSHING WARNED NOT TO PROCEED
Providence, R. L, April 21. Several
employes of the New Haven railroad
today testified before the Interstate
commerce commission and the public
utilities commission in joint session at
the 8tatehou.se that the signals were
correctly arranged to stop the Gilt
Edge express Just prior to the Brad
ford wreck Monday night.
Frederick E. Babcook. In the signal
department, swore the home signal
was ' at danger.
Arthur S. Ross, fireman on the local
which was run into, said the crash
Winter wheat in Illinois ia only 63
per cent, normal.
Heavy snows in Switzerland hi
uamagea me iron crops.
H. P. Thome. One Of th fnr.nm.1
nnusu arc critics, aiea at Florence.
loa on the Great Lakes is fast break
ing up and navigation Is opening rapidly.
India has prohibited the export of
wool, except to Engand. until Oct. 1.
Seven thousand printers have joined
army since the beginning
fcx ports of copper from Atlantic
for the week ended April i totalled
. rthquake lasting twelve
ocx,nua rwnea m nouses of the 1s-
uua vi r uerteventura.
The Commercial Cable company an
nounced that its Chinnnt !fir,H u
l!!?Vb'en lntTupted on account of a
. 9 j'uuun.
.Th? p!t,i' pric of m,,k Chicago
will be Increased from 8 to 9 cents a
quart by the Borden Condensed iliJk
Passage of preparedness legislation
and of financial reform measures have
uri-o me session or the New York
Rumors Reported in Official Despatches That Ameri
can Troops Must Not Go South of Parral
PRESIDENT AND CABINET DISCUSS SITUATION
f arther south of this point, west of I ish are declared to have been forced
Olyka and north of Mourivatza, the I to abandon with heavy losses ad
Germans essayed an attempt against I vanced positions they had occupied
Russian trenches but were repulsed. I and compelled to retreat westward.
JAPAN ANTAGONIZES EXCLUSION
SECTION OF IMMIGRATION BILL.
Japanese Ambassador Has Left Two
Memoranda With State Department.
Washington, April 21. Japan has
renewed her objection to provisions in
the pending immigration bill which are
construed as virtually enacted into
law, the celebrated Root-Takahira
agreement for the restriction of immi
gration to the United States, and as
including Japanese with Hindus in an
excluded class. The administration, it
was said today, fear3 no difficulty in
arranging the terms of the bill so as
to avoid wounding Japan's feelings,
and to that end President Wilson will
soon confer with nouse and senate
leaders. I
Viscount Chinda, the Japanese am- I
basoador, who already has left two i
memoranda with the .stat;; department
on the subject, conferred today with
President Wilson by appointment
which was made t?n days ago. The
administration, while realizing the ex
tent of Asiatic exclusion sentiment in
the Pacific coast states, is described as
fully sensible of the disadvantage of
agitatinif the long-standing controver
sy with Japan and is confident that the
situation can be smoothed out satis
factorily to all interests.
Japan's revival of the question at
this time attracted much interest in
the capital, but it was pointed out that
her representations could scarcely be
delayed, ir it were desired to do so,
because the bill already has passed the
house and has been reported to the
enate for passage.
Although the senate immigration
committee made some changes in
phraseology, the terms of the exclu
sion section slill are offensive to the
Japanese.
PRESIDENT MAKES BRIEF
VISIT TO PHILADELPHIA
WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN
DEFEATED IN NEBRASKA
As Delegate-at-Large to National
Democratic Convention.
To See His Daughter and His Young
est Granddaughter.
Washington, April 21. President
Wilson paid a brief visit to Pthiladel
phia today to v'sit his daughter, Mrs.
Francis Bowes Sayre, and his young
est granddaughter, Eleanor Anson
Sayre, who was born there last month.
He was accompanied by Mrs. Wilson.
They remained in Philadelphia less
than two hours and returned here to
night, planning to spend Easter in
Washington.
The president was given a great
ovation in Philadelphia, although lit
tle was known of his coming until a
lew hours "n aavance.
A crowd of several thousand peo
ple was at the Bread Street station
both when he arrived and when he
left a;1 cheered him enthusiastically.
He was also applauded as he passed
through the streets.
The president and Mrs. Wilson went
directly to the Jefferson hospital.
where his granddaughter was bom.
The visit was made today because
Mrs. Sayre plans to return to her
home in Williamstown, Mass., tomor
row.. Leaving the president to talk
with Mrs. Sayre. Mrs. Wilson, with
Dr. Grayson, the White House physi
cian, made a tour of the hospital.
spending most of her time In the chil
dren's ward.
The trip to and from Philadelphia
made in a private car attached to reg
ular trains, was uneventful.
Omaha, Xeb., April 21. Complete re
turns from 37 counties out of 93 in
the state gave today Senator Albert B.
Cummins of Iowa a slight lead over
Henry Ford of Detroit for the repub
lican presidential nomination at the
Nebraska, presidential primaries held
last Tuesday. The vote was: Cummins
14.237, Ford 14,304. Charles E. Huches
7,726, Henry P. Estabrook 4,935. The
name of Hughes was written on the
ballots by the voters.
Wilriam Jennings Bryan has been de
feated for delegate-at-large to the
democratic national convention, latest
returns indicate.
Helena. Mont., April 21. Senator
Cummins polled 3 to A .-over 'Colonel
Roosevelt in' 12 precincts. The other
republican candidate, Edward Ran
dolph Woods, of Xew Jersey, received
but a few votes. This was Montana's
first presidential primary and the first
time that women voted.
EASTER
May Easter speak you gladness.
May it sing upon your way:
"There's balm for every sadness,
There's gold for every gray.
There's calm and rest and beauty
Beyond each hour of pain.
Cloud and storm pass over,
God's light and love remain."
MARY CROMWHL.L. LOW.
Decision as to Withdrawal of Troop or the Further Pursuit
of Villa Will Not be Made Until Report U Received From
General Scott, Who U Now on the Border An Aspect
of the Mexican Situation Now Causing Concern is the
Effort of Felix Diaz to Incite a New Revolution to Over
throw Carranza New Movement is Said to Have Back
ing of Factions, Both in Mexico and This Country
Details of Parral Fight Have Been Received in Washing
ton, But Are Withheld From Public
Washington. April 21. President
Pref. Wt.l Wo "? "V ccln discussed the
of Tr.hr.. ii,,,. .. , ' ...,nvr jitjic, situation toaay out decided
2.J?2n? I"11"', university has been on no course of action. Further .tecs
iin ii iff i ina i n n iisam v. . i .
,.:", i"J vmnese uy toe Lnild S ates toward the pur
wnii or uia or withdrawal of the
The oort of Arrhann.l L--
clored to all vessels ex cent ihnu
r; ,;T., - ' . u Ior use r me on the border and In Mexico.
troops from Mexico will afait a full
report from Major General Scott, chlof
of talt of '.he army, as to conditions
FORECASTS GREAT FINANCIAL
DILLICULTIES FOR. GERMANY.
Berlin Lokal Anzeiger Publishes Inter
view With Dr. Von Lentze.
Amsterdam. Holland, April 21, via
London, 7.08 p. m. The Lokal An
zeiger of Berlin publishes an interview
with Dr. on Lentze, Prussian finance
minister, in which he forecasts great
financial difficulties not only for the
German empire but for the individual
estates of the empire. He expresses
the Dellei that it may be necessary
for the empire to levy direct taxes
upon the states, notwithstanding the
fact that the German constitution does
not provide for such measures.
The prolongation of the . war. Dr.
Von Lentze contends, compels recog
nition of hard facts.
GERMAN GOVERNMENT HAS
RECEIVED AMERICAN NOTE.
Will Not Be Published in Berlin Be
fore Sunday.
MAJOR GENERAL H. L. SCOTT
ARRIVES IN SAN ANTONIO.
Discussed the Mexican Problems With
General Funston.
San Antonio, Texas, April 21. Ma
jor General Hugh L. Scott, chief of
staff of the 1'nited States army, and
Major General Funston, in charge of
operations along the frontier and in
Mexico, personally discussed the
problems tonight which have grown
out of the punitive expedition in pur
suit of Villa,
General Scott arrived from Wash
ington tonight and was met by Gen
eral Funston, the two going immedi
ately to General Funston's head
quarters at Fort Sam Houston.
ueneral bcott professed not to know
whether the American troops were to
be recalled without having captured
Villa. He 'was sent here by Secre
tary Baker to discuss the situation in
detail with General Funston and to
make to the secretary a personal re
port. General Scott does not intend
going to Ey Paso or Columbus.
Berlin, April 20, via London, April
21. 4.35 p. m. The American note in
regard to submarine wa-fare is now in
the hands of the German government.
It was delivered this evening to For
eign Minister Von Jagow in the usual
manner, with no attendant circum
stances to mark the unusual impor
tance of the occasion.
Owins- to the lenerth of the nnto on
the appendix, and to the delayed ar- ! patience finally became exhausted.
Dim. nr nnp spnrinn nf thn rntn nPnn I
not ready for presentation until
rested with him but is held on a tech
nical charge.
Tried to Draw Revolver.
Quigley fought against arrest and
tried to get a loaded pistol from his
pocket, but was overpowered by the
inspectors. His alleged confederate
submitted to arrest. Both denied they
knew each other, although the inspec
tors saw them together.
Certificates of Stock Found.
When told to open his grip Quigley
protested and said he could not be
made to give it up. It contained a
large bundle with old newspapers for
wrapping, inside were found cer
tificates of stock of the Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad, the Chicago, Burling
ton and Quincy Railroad, Xew York
city stock and other securities of an
aggregate face value of $400,000.
sight draft for $2-8.000 drawn on
S. B. Chapin and Company of Xew
lork Dy hmith, Lockhart and com
pany of Boston, also was found in
the satchel adtached to certificates
for 100 shares of Union Pacific and
100 shares of Lnion Pacific and 100
snares of .Northern Pacific stock.
AMERICAN NOTE TO
GERMANY SUITS JAPAN
Newspapers Declare America
Shown She Desires Peace.
Has
Tokio, Japan, April 21. Japanese
opinion, as expressed Dy the newspa
pers, is sympathetic and welcomes
:ne American note to Germany de
manding a discontinuance of subma
rine warfare. The belief is general
ly expressed that America has shown
the world she desires peace, but her
REGULATING PRICE OF
FOOD IN FRANCE
Maximum Rates for Oil, Sugar, Cof
fee, Dried Vegetables, Etc.
Paris, Arril. 21, 1.30 p. m. In line
with the recent decision to regulate
the prices of food and other commodi
ties, a law was promulgated in the
Official Journal today authorizing mu
nicipal and other authorities to estab
lish maximum rates for oil, sugar,
coffee, dried vegetables, potatoes,
oleomargarine, salad oils and petroleum.
BRIDGEPORT MAKES FIRST
SHIPMENT OF RIFLES
Remington Co. Sends 1,500 to Russia
by Way of Pacific Coast.
Bridgeport, April 21. Fifteen hun
dred rifles, the first manufactured
since the establishment of the great
work of the Remington Arms & Am
munition company here, were shipped
today by agents of the Russian gov
ernment, The rifles will be sent across
the continent and to Russia from the
Pacific coast.
$92,000 for Printing Reports.
Wlashington, April 21 The senate
resolution to spend $92,000 printing
100,000 copies of the report of the
Federal Relations Commission and
10,000 copies of the testimony It took,
eras adopted by the bouse.
7.30
o'clock this evening. Ambassador Ger
aTd then rolled the document in a
magazine, to protect it from a slisht
rain which was falling, and walked
across the square to the foreign of
fice. The ambassador was received imme
diately. The foreign minister read the
note and a short general conversation
followed.
The note probably will not be pub
lished here before Sunday,1 and no
comment by the German press is ex
pected before that time..
SUBMARINE L-3 HAS BEEN
DELIVERED TO GOVERNMENT
One of Seven Having a Cruising Ra
dius of 5,500 Miles.
Boston, April 21. The submarine
L-3, one of the largest submersibles
in the United States navy, was for
mally delivered to the government by
her builders, the Fore River Ship
building Corporation, at the Charles
town navy yard today and immediate
ly commissioner. The seven vessels
of this class, each with a cruising
radius of 6,500 miles, will be in ser
vice by July 1, the builders stated.
INEXPENSIVE SUBSTITUTE
FOR GASOLINE DISCOVERED
Henry Ford Has Had a Conference
With the Inventor.
Parmlngdale, N. T., April 21. Hen
ry Ford, the automobile manufacturer,
conferred here today with Louis En-
richt, who claims to have discovered
an expensive powder which, by the
addition of water, can be substituted
for gasoline as fuel for motor cara
The outcome of the meeting was not
aucuoseo.
MEMBERSHIP IN WORLD
ALLIANCE OF CHURCHES
Accepted by Former President Taft
and Other Prominent Laymen.
Xew York. April 21. Former
aent latt ana a number of other
prominent laymen throughout the
country, it was announced here to
night, have accepted membership in
the World Alliance of Churches for the
rromouon or international Friends-hip,
niiivii wm noia a convention at Gar
oen City, X. Y., beginning next Tues
day. A tentative programme includes
discussions on The Church and the
rsew .Nationalism, The World Task of
the Church, The Maze of the Xations
and the Way Out, The Fight for Peace
ana rne Church and the Oriental Prc-b
lem.
EXPLOSION BELIEVED TO
HAVE. KILLED 30 PERSONS
In the Powder Branch of a Grenade
Factory at Bordeaux, France.
Bordeaux, April 2'2, 12.25 a. m. Thir
ty persons are believed to have been
killed in the explosion of the powder
branch of a grenade factory here to
day. Already 28 bodies have been
taken out of the debris.
The cause of the explosion has not
yet Deen established, but the theory
is that a spark from the electrical
machinery set off powder while it was
in tne process ox being mixed. Besides
those killed, a number of persons were
injured.
Oil property of the Osage nation
x-a'ud at 1 11.000.000 with a dally nro-
uj-r-ion rr atxvjt Jl.X0 bbls, will be
pimu at puonc acutlon.
Telegrams praisinn President W!l
son's position on th submarine la
Stolen from New York Ferryboat.
Chief Postoffice Inspector J. C.
Koons said he believed that the sat
chel contained all the securities which
had been sent from Baltimore in the
registered mail pouches stolen on the
Xew lork lerryboat. Some of the
securities found in the satchel were
mailed from Washington. One of the
stolen pouches was from Baltimore
and three were from Washington. In
spector Koons said there had not been
time enough to check up all the se
curities found in the satchel but from
early identification tonight he says
that they are those stolen on the fer
ryboat.
Says He Found Satchel on Train.
Quigley said that the satchel had
been left on the train by a man and
woman who got off at Philadelphia
and that he took it. This was ail
that he would say after three hours'
examination in the federal office here.
ne saia ne was on his way to Xew
Orleans from Xew York. One theorv
of the postoffice authorities here is
that he came on intending to make a
deal with the persons owniuig the
securities. The officials think Thom
as F. Benson, who was released in
Xow York today on ball on the
charge of stealing some other pouches,
is a confederate of Quigley and that
one took the jewelry and the other the
securities.
Quigley said that he is 36 venrs old
and lives in Xew York, but his home
is in Ridgefield Park. X. J.
Windall said he met Quhrley on the
train when he was on his way ao
jij-icmiore 10 100K lor work.
came about the same Instant the local
stopped at the Bradford station.
Saw Flagman Swinging Lantern.
George II. French, conductor nn thA
local, said he sjiw his flagman 20 car
lengths behind the train after it stop
ped at Bradford. He saw him swing
ing his iantcrn up the track before the
crash.
John W. Coombs, flacman of the lo
cal passenger train, said that when he
lert his train to go back with the red
lights to warn anything that might be
approaching the second home "signal
was set at danger.
The record shows that this signal
was not set at dancer until approxi
mately five minutes after the local had
stopped at the Bradford tower for orders.
Did Not Have Time to Light Fuse.
Coombs admitted that he did not
consider that he got back a sufficient
distance to protect his train propcriy
under the rules. Moreover, ho said,
he could have gotten back farther if
he had run. According to his testi
money. ho had gone back about 1,000
feet when the Gilt Ei'ge bore down on
him. He did not have time to light a
fuse and drop it on the roadbed, so he
threw it at the engineer in the cab and
it landed over on the next track.
Engineer Mansfield Tells His Story.
Charles II. Mansfield, eneinerr of
the Gilt F.dge, told his story of the
disaster and declared that the d:stan e
signal was set at 'clear- and the first
home' against him.
He said this was a most unusual oc
currence and hia 30 years of experi
ence he had never known of a pimilar
case but once. :hat beini: at the time
ot the fetonington wreck. July, 1912.
The cause there was attributed to
defective signal by the rai.road com
pany.
Utilities Commission Visits Bradford.
At 6.30 tonight the utilities commis
sioners. the federal investigators with
railroad officials left this city on a
special train, went to Bradford and
watched a thorough tet of the signals
which figured in the wreck. The party
returned snortly before 11 o clock to-
nignt.
To Await General Scott's Report.
General Scott, who reached San
Antonio today to confer with General
Funston was not expected to send a
rrport on the situation until tomor
row. His full report upon which a
decision a to the next step to
taken nrfthnlilv m-lll hai K mm
r.V rtnr,P'1 ,he U hite Hou" from I his return to Washington. When he
m tne union. I lert here the chief of staff said he
, . ... I would make hia Investigation and re
A tornado sweet Ihmunla kitk n - -..i-vi tk.i .
l.entral Iowa and Southern Minnesota, I not indicate how Ions be might be
dcstrovlns- a number of farm houses, gone.
mjurea probably a score of person-!. Na Chn. i. M C. I r.
Notice was oortarf in k. a:ii..- I aton.
?y""'lnd utomob!le factory at Tole- Pendlnr word from Gnrl Scott.
"mo. mat wages of all rmninv.. I x-, .. ... w.
wll be increased voluntarily. June 1. mer.t that no change had been made
u;. .. , 7T .... In orders to General Funston and that
nrooiTu"- vl? ! -Ph'Ph " the department had no knowledge of
lvJiuI . f!.V !.!. TuCkerton- and General Pershlny. No official report
Sayville to Insure adequate protection, had been received, he said, that the
Wr. . . . . . I expedition waa at a standmtill.
. Kimny, employed as Dominion I ...
government shell Inspector at the St. I """ varne n ot tm frecews.
Catherine Munitions factory, was held I Th aecretary admitted that official
Dy a migistrate on a rhanre of sedi. I despatches had curried as a rumor
iion. 1 ine report mat .Mexican omcera naa
warned oflert Pershlna not to rn-o-
William O. McAdoo. American I csej sotith of Parral. It waa learn-
retary cf the treasury arrived at Val- I ed l frtate department that a re-
praiwi. nue. ana attended a ban-1 "rl t"1" meet was transmitted
quet tendered him by the minister of """ne days fore the Parral incident
gestion of the de facto government
that the troops be withdrawn. Offl
clais indicated that General Carran
za'a attention would be called to tha
discrepancies In the two rarolona.
They thought It cn.lkeiy he would at
tempt to upheld Ws orirlnsl report la
the llcht of more recent Information
and no lengthy correspondence; is to
be looked for.
NEW ASPECT OF MEXICAN
PROBLEM CAUSING CONCERN
Movement Headed By Felix Diaz Fes
a New Revolution.
marine.
With four companies of Coast ar-
iiuerymen m route to ths Psnnno
canal zone on board the 1'nlted States
army transnort Kilpatrick, arrived at
aivesion, rexas.
Miss Harriet N. Winchell. Choea-
go s oinost school teacher, died of
heart disease the other night while
seated In her automobile ln front of
ner nome mere.
throuch consular atrents. Mr. Baker
lnlsrl that the warning had made
no rhant in the department's orders
to the border forces.
Details of Parral Fight Withheld.
It was Indicated tonight that a re
ply to General Carranza's telegram
ea'.inr attention to the clash at Par
ral and asserting1 that the American
comrn" ne'er had violated his orders
.md the agreement with the de farto
government in entering the town.
Would be dipntched soon. War de-
Al!-a two rfeleeates to tha
nnh'n r-t'ornl convention. W.
f-rrrtcp of Nome, and I..Vrl
h-ck!f.fnrrt. of Jureau, will go
Chicago tinlnstructed.
PACKAGES WERE STOLEN
FROM MAIL POUCHES
Mall
Illinois Endorses Wilson.
Springfield, 111., April 21. Resolu
tions endorsing President Wilson and
the administration of Governor
Dunne were adopted by the democra
tic convention today but with one dis
senting1 vote.
$50,000,000 FOR PRODUCTION
AND REFINING OF OIL.
Company Being Formed by Harry F,
Sinclair of Tulsa, Okla.
Tulsa, Okla.. April 21. Harry F. Sin
clair, multimillionaire, on his return
from Xew lork today, announced that
he has practically succeeded in orran
irin- a company capitalized at S.W
000,000 for the producing and refining
or crude oil. The new concern will be
known as the Sinclair Oil and Refining
company and headquarters will be es
tablished in this city.
Mr. Sinclair denied the report that
the new company is being organized
to compete with the Standard Oil com
pany. It wll conduct its affairs with
ut bias toward any of the existing oil
refining companies, he said. The
larger refineries are to be combined
with a pipe line connection to them all.
which will insure ample production.
Mr. Sinclair said the company has
already taken, over the Cudihy Refln
ing company and a number of other
independent companies.
Four Packages of Registered
Were Taken.
New York, April 21. The robbery
for which Kdward J. Quigley was ar
rested at Baltimore tonight nvnj-t-xt
here February 26, when four packages
of registered mail were removed from
an automobile truck while in transit
on a ferryboat from the Communi
paw, N. J., station of the Central
railroad of Xew Jersey to Liberty
street, Xew Pork. The packages
were stolen from mail pourches.
It was announced later that many
inousanas or dollars worth of securi
ties sent from Baltimore and ad
dressed to Potter. Choate and Pren
tice, members of the New York Stock
Exchange, had been taken from the
automobile truck. The New Tork
Trust company also announced that
two railroad gold bonds which had Xew York. Anril 21. .Arrived stMm.
been mailed to them from Baltimore er Currier, Clenfuegos. Sailed, steam-
weer xmssincr. era Orarl. Auckland; Rosegg, France.
Movements of Steamships.
Genoa, April is. Arrived, steamer
San Giorgio, Xew 1 ork.
Kirkwall, April 19. Arrived (previ
ously), steamer Ryndam, Rotterdam for
New x ork.
Chrtetkinsand. April 20. Arrived,
steamer Oscar II, .New lork.
Rotterdam. April 13. Sailed, steamer
Noordam, Xew lork.
Rink dw in, - . , , ... pnrtment oincla'.s say the report on
vl"? e r,h r,fh-,fW,ft- ' InrMent from General Pershlnr.
f A"nn Temrklns and other office Is
church Tmv v v i v. nnl comp'.eie. It has been withheld
r.rK Tr.-..T7'--l..T' diPd at h,s 1ar from riU.ncv.inn h-cau..e of the flat
t. 1- ill 1 Mil.
contradi'-tion it contains of the Mexl
co Ci'y r.dvif-es fr.m 0ne"-a Oirran
iw tit to 'he part his troops played in
the flchMng.
With this rrr as a ba'W. the Par
ral Incident wl'l be tre'ed as a mat
ter entirely separate from the sug-
The six Villa bandits rlic an trUI
at Doming. X. M.. rhtreed with the
kllig of Charles I. Miller In the Co-
umius raid, were found niiltv of
murder In the first degree.
Reports from Admiral Winslaw nn
the West coast. Indicate that Car-
raP7.a rorees in Sonora state h.nve re
newed campaigns aminst Tanul In
dian outlaws ln an effective way.
Nine survivors of a once coouloua
rihe of Indians hithrto unknown to
wriT met. nave been found bv Di-
Wllllam C. Farahee. loader of the t'nl-
versity Museums Amazon expedition.
The United States cruiser Tntnaiiu
! erpeoTd to arrive at Callao on
Monday next, with William G. Mc
Adoo. soore'ary of the treasury of the
i ni'a states ana bis party from
Chile.
Eleven persons were reoorterf dead
nnd scores Injured, several erioulv.
in a succession or tornadoes which
wept throurh the central portions of
r.as'ern Kansas and Western Mis
souri.
President John O. Pew of h
vountrstown. Ohio. Iron and Steel
company announced a ten per cent
increase in wages for all hut salaried
employes of his company, effective on
May 1.
The evclovlen of a laree ouantitv of
rtvnarr.lt" and powder In a temporary
rr-ime structure on tne !lte or the dam
tnni is noinir ouvt near Xew Rloh-n-orrt.
Ohio, did damage estimated at
JiO.OT3.
Washington. April 21. While imms-
dlate Interest centers, naturally, rn the.
situation as to the troops In Mexico,
there were renewed Indications about
the slate department today that a
wholly different aspect of tha Mexican
problem waa causing growing con
cern. That Is the movement sup
posedly headed by Felix max, nephew
of the former Mexican dictator, for
new revolution acalnst tha de facta
government. Nona of the information
upon which the uneasiness rests baa
been disclosed. It is known, however.
thst several Mexicans ln the United
States are being closely watched and
It seems possible that soma of tha anti-American
feellnira tn Chihuahua
state which has met the troops pur
snrnir Villa may ba attributed to this
movement.
Backed By Various Eletnanta.
Tha Diaz movement, it la said, baa
the backing of vmrtous elements of
Mexicans both In Mexico and In this
country. A a viewed by tha state de
partment. It la understood, tha atlv
ItJea of theaa persona axe tha mora
dangerous because they are wealthy,
while tha de facto bovemment la In
volved In a snarl of financial compli
cations which would be hard to over
come even ln times of complete peaoa.
Seeking to Undermine Carranza.
While no definite information wma
obtainable tonight, there were Indi
cations that soma Washington offi
cials, at least, thought it possible that
the Diaz interests were seekina; to
undermine General Carranca among
Ms various commanders. Should clear
Indications of this become apparent.
the attention of General Carranz
probably would be called to tba situa
tion. It was pointed out at the war de
partment today that the portion of
Chihuahua m here the pursuit of VU
a ban been in progress has bean ,
doubtful territory at best. Many of
the so-caled Carranza garrisona ara
1 own to wavering In their allegiance.
NCREASE OF DESTITUTION IN
BELGIUM AND NORTH FRANCE
Additional Americans Asked to Volun
teer for Relief Duty There.
Xew York. April !1. Because of th"!
increase of bre-id iinos and the grow
ing number of destitute persons in
Beigium ?nd northern France, it wns
announced here today, the Commis
sion for Relief in Ik-lgium ha isu.-d
call for eiaht additional delevatos
of American Mrth and parentage to
volunteer for duty in the stricken ter
ritory. The volunteers must te able
to speak French and p-tss and ex
amination ty IMorre Mali, Uelglan
consul In New York.
'Flag Pay" contributionss to the
relief Oind, according to the Daugh
ters of the American Revr'ntion.
probably will feach a total of IS50.000.
Contributions totalling 110.Ci al
ready have been received from fifteen
states. An advertising campaign will
be begun here Monday to obtain
funds to feed 500.000 destitute wo
men and vchildren in IkKium and
northern France for one week.
CANADA TO REMOVE SAILORS
OF ENEMY NATIONS
From American Ships Touching Ca
nadian Ports en tha Great Lakes.
Washington. April 51. Cleveland
officers of th r."ke Carriers Assoc ia-
ion have notified officials of the gov
ernment here. It was learned today,
that they have information that Can
ada intends In the future- to remova
sailors of enemy nations from Ameri
can ships on the Great Lakes touch
ing at Canadian porta. Tha state de
partment is investigating.
The carriers declared such a tnov
by Canada would mean a further
short? ee In lake seamen because of
the Urge number of Germans an i
Austrian employed. The new sea
men s law, it is declared, baa forced
from service many sailors who can
not m-t Its requirements.
No details were given In tha com
munication and r.o proof was offered
that the Canadian government la pre
paring to take tha acticn.
FREIGHT TRAIN RAN
INTO AN OPEN SWITCH
A t-e-t ear on the AI!eoSanv Val.
ley fllvis'on of the Wet Penn Tnr.
:n PomMPrs line, where a sfrike
hns b-en In r rogron for elrht months,
' Meked by a mob and almost de
molished. Dr. E. H. Arnold. New Haven noe-
mil school f -ymrnt!.-s. New Haven.
cnn.. wns tha principal spenker at
Thm-Pday" session of the American
Physical Fdncatlon association at Cin
cinnati, Ohio.
The Rev. J. D. Darling, former sec
retary of tha Ohio Sunday-School as
sociation was found aruilty of conduct
unbecoming a mlnlater by a commft
f of representative churchmen of the
Methodist Fplscopal church at Cin
cinnati, Ohio.
The British steamship Bankdale, un
der charter to the French line, which
left New York Anril 13. for Havre, re
turned to Xew York repertins; that in
a hurricane on April I. and IT her
rudder -head had been damaged, re
quiring repairs.
Crashed Into Four Tank Cars an Sid'
ing in South Waterbury.
Waterbory. Conn.. April 51. An ex
tra freight train bound west for Mar
brook Junction ran Into an open
switch last night, crashing into four
tank enrs on the slJi.-.g of the Con
necticut Oil company in South Water-
bury. Two of the tank cars w
loaded with pasol.ne and kerosene
and two empty.
The two empties were thrown Into
the s'reet some feet and the two fill
ed tanks were punctured. The tot. 1
c'.amace will include tha loa of the
oil curs, and also the gasoline.
LEOMINSTER, MASS,
POSTMASTER SURRENDERS
Charged With Converting to His Own
Usa $1,312 of Postal Funds.
Boston. April II. Postmaster Frank
I. Pearson of Leominster surrendered
to United States Marshal J. J. Mitch
ell yesterday and was arreated on i
charge of unlawfully converting to his
own use $1,312 of postal funds. He had
brcn sought for several days after bis
disappearance during examination of
the accounts of he Leominster post-
once by federal Inspector.
Pearson Is president of tha Leomin
ster Board of Trade.
THREE MORE RAIDS BY
FRENCH AIR SQUADRONS
On German Positions Near tha Greek
Border.
Paris. April 21. 5.40 p. m. Threa
more raids by squadrons of French
aeroplanes on German positions near
the Oreek border ara reported tn a
1 lavas despatch rrom SalonikL On
Monday night French aeroplanes bom
barded th Orrma n camps at Neotin
and Pardovica, Serbia. On Tuesday
right other French machines dropped
bombs on the barracks at GievgrU.
The German hangars at Xegotln. the
supply station at S:rumitsa and tha
camp at Pad!asl were attached on
Thursday night.
The despatch rays many bombfl
proved to be effective.
NEW REPUBLICAN POLITICAL.
COMBINATION IN ILLINOIS
W rests Control From Former Govern
or Charles F. Deneen of Chicago.
Peoria. 111.. April 21. Control of tha
republican par-! 5 organization ln Illi
nois was wreeted feotn Former Gov
ernor Chales S. Deotieen of Chicago.
The convention endosed Sherman
for president, nominated I presiden
tial electors and then adjourned to re
convene In Peoria September It whan,
the delegate will conclude their busi
ness by nominating three university,
trustees and adopting a party plai-form.
