,'C
he
THE WEATH
Iffe FQfiECi
rsrtriy. 6t; lo
QAECAST.
Overcast and rainv
tm.
ciouay
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
Hitrhest temneMatul
, 6t ; lowest, 0.
Detailed weathri, tmill
iports on page 1 .1
PRICE TWO CENTS.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 235.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 1916. t'opiriDiMDIS.bu the Hun Printing and Publishing Attoclailon.
SONOR A TROOPS
RUSH TO SHUT
OFF VILLA HUNT
CiiiTiinzii Forces Conccu
li,iilinr al Purnil .M'ii
.u'c IVi'sliiny.
VON igel case MAY cause J THIEF KILLED, 2 SHOT I FRENCH AT VERDUN
U. S. APOLOGY TO GERMANY
Seized Papers to Be Turned Over to Von Bernstorff
! on Instinctions From State Department Compli
cations Grow With Ambassador's Demands.
CHANCELLOR TAKES NOTE GERARD SENDS
JloVK 18 A JTZZLK
T0VASH1X(T0X
Wasiiimiton, April si The much dis
tuned papers which agents of the De
partment cil Justice seized from Wolf
von Igel. Mid which have boon demanded
J' Count 'on Herustorff. the Herman
Ambassador, t cached Washington to-day.
They will Ip turned over to the Herman
Ambassador, according t Instructions
from tho State Department.
Kohliors' Victim Fived On at
l-ManrceN Side Pollcc
. limit Woiindt'tl.
lien. Scott I'onlVrs With
KmiMtoii Withdrawal
Mii.v Follow JJcpoi't.
It In probable the United Stutes Uov- :
cttinont will make a formal apology to
Herman,, f . having seized thtm con
trary to tile well tstubllshed law of na
tion'', which ptotects diplomats and their'
property. according to officials at the
SJuto Deparment.
i mo tension t.tiiscti ny me itiresi oi ,
wltlnlraw.il of the Indictment and the
return of all the papers now In the
custody of the Department of Justice.
No such understanding has reached tlie
Department of Justice, however. No
direct reuuest lias been made on the J I'airollllllll. SlI'lICK l)V ItUllCl,
ncpartnu nt Tor .ho return or the papcts
or the withdrawal of the Indictment.
Olllclals of the Department of Justice J
understood, on the other hand, that the
State Department hud reached no final
decision us to the procedure to be fol-
Advance. Wont of Mciisc and
ItPimNe Heavy (Senium At- pians fm. De, in Answer Seen in Berlin-Not to Bel
tack Near Douaumont. .... . A .
Direct "Yes " or "No," but a New Argument
ONI- MAX DI T KSt'AI'KS XKW POSITIONS SIIKIil.KH
in Diplomatic Language, Is Belief.
Fires Shot Kndx High
wayman's Life.
lowed. In the llrst place. It was pointed
out that the Indictment against Von Igel
l based entirely on offences alleged to
have been committed by him prior to
his appointment as attache of the Her
man Embassy last December
l.niTera .Vol Certain.
U v-iliX'.ToN. April 21. Ottlci.il des
patiiivs to the State Di purtincnt to-day
til J of .i further movement of Currun
um.i forces In tho direction
vl.tiA kit go bodies of Cairanzlstas ate
npo'tod to have Insn concentrating to
ntast a fin titer advance of the American
for (. in pursuit of Villa.
Tho dtspntchos state that the gatrisou
I Culonla Morolos, In the State of
fconiia, has suddenly cvacuuteil that city
Two lootpads held up Joseph
Scliwoitrci, 22, of SH3 Cnutll.itult ave
nue, Tho Hionx, In a lonely spot at lfitst
stieet and Cromwell avenue, at the edge
of Marombs Dam larl!. ns he a walk
Inir w ith his lluncee late last night. Jloth
I robbers tired bullets Into Schweitzer's
V I-..! .....I ll.n ..l,i.u ,.r 1,1. ,.,.,. f"lllf Mni'l' loo ltiaiimr.ii n- uican IH'CUllSe lie OICVV
a.id It Is Jiulerstood tho greatest IniHg- . dltilnm itle Immunities as by no
natim lias .,e aroused throughout the , nn2,? ,k,t l'pTnted out that Z
ilctman l.mplre. Itemirdless of wiat the',,,,.,,, of Vo , ,, .aR or,!,,.,,! oy thc
papers may contain Secretary K-inslnR i .,,,..,,..,,.,,,.... il4i,...
, r "i-nrrai . "'r "ermany's right lo de- j,Mwee ,he State Department and tho
of l arral, i niand their return. . ' . ... '. ...i,ti, i...a
Counsellor l'olk of the Slate Depart- .nd i,o Slaie Donart.nenfs an-
iiiviii f"tctuiij I'l ifiuitru iuiii tun
Teuton AsMtnlt Wot of Vanx
Mated on Front of
I l-l Miles.
'hl liftpntih lo Tint Siv.
UinpoN, April 21. The Copenhagen
cnrrrsjioiiilent of the ihiilu Mail tele
gr.iihs ;
"When rrejidenl Wllfon's note to tier-
many reached the Porelgn Ottlce Ohan-
telloi on lletlimann-llotlwcg Immcdl
' to Thr .n alely left on spvclnl train for army
I'miis. April 21 A new and powerful ' headiiuarters nt the front lo oonfer wltli
Herman attack was delleted last nlKht m,c apr
iimtlnst the Trenrh lines In the sector be- bellcve(, ., replv wm ,,e
tvvoeu the Thlauinont farm, southwest of ' , i,f, .., ,, .i .
for the police.
Thc thieves then tied.
iNiilauninnt village, and the pond Imme
diately west of the village of Vuux. The
call whistle i frotll ntllu.k(.,i , about two kilometers
few minutes' ,01"' l,!"0 i,m' :l MUartor) In length.
later I'ollccm.'in I'atrlck .Mcdovorn of' After u very heavy artillery bombard-
the High llrldge police station, who 4iad
heard the whistle and the shots, saw a
man creep tut nf the railroad cut at
the Rler nenue bridge of the New
York iVntral at lillst street.
As lie wan about to stop the Mi anger
tnetit of the ector against which the as
sault whs to be directed tho Herman
waves were thiown forward and at two
points, one to the south of the ruins of
Kaster holidays, and even then It will
not be a direct "Y" or "No," but bo
couched mole In diplomatic language
than usua.."
The iiolly , unofepjnilrnt at The
Hague telegraphs:
"Ambassador liorard did not tireont
the American note to the Foreign Ofllce
until last evening. This delay give tier-
old Kort Douaumnnt and the other to the'In,,iiy the pretext of postponing her reply
north of the Vau pond, the tiormuns I until next week. The note will not be
I hrnvjl nt tlm nnlnr A v.. i unit nntv fm'.u . f ......... ... . . '
Uernstorff that the nanors would be sent " ".7 u.. ' ""o.u. .en.y one or me iooi-
to the Oerman Kmbassy when they lt waB lmiMeil out wouM ,vlov. 'not. ur; c' -ove,,. lV'the''forel end ' t ?e ' K"ln"'1 ''"""" ln ,he '"""c" rencli.. J',t"'Hshod heie until Sunday morning, the
reached here. Any effort to have the . , ' ,..,. .. 111ii..1,i., f the con- . . J?,.".'.. ' ,t...f.0? n': . . I ti i, .h.. terntnent wishing to gain time to In-
Ambassador Identify them will full, a- ciuslotu. reached bv the State Depart- JiVf V. . .1 r"""7 "T" , . , strut t tho press as to the attitude t le
the Ambassador has left for New York . l". ,'.....,! . V. .. n ' ,f.P."r,ff U,I"B .tx'sltlon. mutiaKed to draw h. , night. IVench counter attack-, were or- tsk.n.
the
and
they
and will not be at the embassy when 1 nrotestcd ' ?t. iT .1 . 1 "''"V 1 ! , . 1 ganlzed and befote morning the (JermanH "The opinion prevails In well Informed
are delivered. The Ambassador
snd has tossed Into the State of 1 couten Is that ho Is only Interested In
CMhtiahua under ordits to Join the other knowing whether they were taken from
on igei. iiegartiiess 01 ineir conicnv
C.maiiza foicir at l'atial.
Just what tho situation is the Depart
ment Is not advised. Socretaty of War
Itakcr dcclaicd tills afliitiooii that he
hoping that he would receive u full
and detailed upoit to-moirrw from
M ijor.tiin Scott, t hief of Man. who re
lic will Insist upon their return.
Ileum lids Von liirl'a Helense.
The mbatsador has pteented uu un
equivoiul demand on the State Depart
ment for the withdrawal of the Indict
ment against Von Igel, now at liberty
on UO.OOn ball, and the return to mm
protested.
Although the Von Igel papers reached
the Department of Justice to-day, com
plete copies nf them ate stilt In h
session of t'nlteil States Attorney Mar
phall In New York. Mr. Marshall al
ready has presented ome of them to the
tirand Jury at New York as evidence.
It Is said, and this evidence Is now
under consideration by the (Irand Jur.
with the possibility that further Indict
ments of pto-tiermati offender' may be
voted. Tho i.iund Jury has Impounded
m.uck u.e looipao squ ireiy in me ngni . . . ..,. , CrfllB ... Tll(. .. thnt (Jcrmay
tsmpie. n Killed mm liustantly, u. I while professing full smpathy with
jic(.overn and sonwe tier weio pur- 'c ui'ic.i mi mrmi u.u-k m im-ir " i..,i,il,n, iviIk.i.'. ,in with re-
rled to Lebanon Hospital, where It was trencl aU along the front I ';',',lt .nV'orvlnB "f theprfn-
repone. 00m were in a venous conn V ."V ' . . clp!e of humanity In the submarine
'uu, urKeons wno prcjoeu lor ine oiu-1 " - - '.warfare, will ofter renewed assurances
ioiw coiiin noi leu wneiner xno iwo men :
would live.
The robber lia" not been
ported to tho War Department Ills ar- if i!! papers found In his possession. I all of the documents1 as evidence pertl
..-.a,., l. locitnef nun any nnoiogranns or imjio
;nipm iriuis wuicn may nave urni
made ot them since their seizure. This
was the second demand made by the
,. inr.itlng. tVinian Ambissador. At first he aske.l
What riosidcnt Wilson Is appaiontly omy lor tne wunurawai 01 me nm.ci
mi..iij to d.litinlne is whether ttie at- ment and the return of papers which he
t... k on Mtc Aniorlcan fibres at I'atral said telonged In the otllclal files of tlie
r.i.- miii v iicai 11 eiiai.u icr or 1 i" '
r ' al S mi Antonio at :3
to-t. b'i to lonfcr with lion. I'unston.
j .. 1 w.nl-e direction liin. I'errlilliK'H
I
Cl
strained from being guided by the evl
dence thus obtained.
It has been learned that ome of the
documents which have been examined 1 ei
are code meyniges, These are regarded
as esiieclallv Interesting, for It Is known
They 1 that the Cov eriimcnt agents would be
If it Is the latter the I 'resident has planned to furnish the Ambassador with 1 pleased If the could obtain the key
' take Into ciuislib.iatioii tho prob- photographic copies of the documents so I( (he lode which has been used by pro
ne miBiii imi'caie nnirii wriii .ie rniii n coi jn i ators in mis country
official papem 01 tne emisissy. 11 was
would nesi-
eptul on a elialtcnuc from far- ' when the htm iifmann was suoiiouei
r,' .1 II' it Is the fonnir. It Is roKiintcu 10 me j-iaic 1 'ei.ariniem hihi iiiiii"',
k po-lbl.- in Administration clrclen to thc Dep.it Itnent of justice officials
tl ..t !! dllll. ult nun t o adjusted suf- of the latter Department fixed 011 u
h .m, to enable the cviicditlun to tiro- plan whereby It was tl'ought the Amb.is-
fied tii to a late hour Detictlves
scoureil The Itronx for Ills companion,
but all trace of him app.uently was
lost.
Schweitzer, who Is emplovid bv
llordeti's Oondenstd Milk i'ompaii as a
ciinxasoer. got off a Ninth avenue ele
vated train nt One Hundred and fifty
seventh stret with his sweetheart. Miss
Mary Sohlehlclii, .'l ears old. and
stalled toward MaiMmbs Dam I'atk
At One Hundred and Sixtv-tltst street
any case they cannot be re-umd Cromwell avenue two neatly dre-ved
young men suddenly stepped out of the
last night met with mine
11 1. ii.... - ,1,.. t.-..n.i, of her good Intentions In such a form as
idontl- i begun op'eratlon- vest'erduy to dtlve the , '"'other Indellnite postponement
i:nm.n f,'... hn.nui',. .... iiiii or. I of the threatened crisis.
take,, in the tierman attack of April l'i.! "Vi,e lmlch, "Iv!"' senerally atiprovcs
flintier im.L'm.. .,..rie i.t n!..i,i of the American attitude, though ex-
1 ptesslng doubt whether the note will
nent to caes now under consideration.
This development further compllrntm
the .situation created by the Ambassa
dor's demands. It is painted out, ln
addition, that the (irand Jury and thc
Federal authorities have already made
n careful study of thc document, and
that In
sudor's wishes might be sutlstled.
EO1
I ' that If the tloop n further
(itli it will tin uu a war with Curranza,
: n in tut n would mean gt.nci.il Inter-
. ti. which ho has publicly declared
h will avoid.
sci' Allssinu In llorder.
: ortbr to ilitoriiimo thv nuestton
'1 likewise to determine the character
of the fni mat reply which the State De-rart'u.-iit
will make to lion. Currauza's
s u-gi -lion that arrangements b" entered
i: ;.. fo. the withdrawal of the American
f .i i. .sjectetaty Haker has Instructed
o si, ,,k t, ,.t it the Information
p.-i.e fioni lien. Fiinston as to the
ki- i.in.iti ati'ifs tho tiortlor. the attl
tad. .-f tin. Carranzlstus and the. pros
li 't ,in tor the capture of Villa,
I. iwse it i niiiloistiiod that effort"
a., in i,g mad" through the State Do
l m- t '.i ai range for a conference
r a. ! 'ion. Siott and lion. UbroKou,
! .i a s Minisiir nf War. at Juarez
i other uimenient place on the
t'
t. 1
ii i
Ch
,v
tl
1
Co'
I. tlx nnlltar.v men In Washing
. neelves linu llttlo doubt that
za - in nt on opposir.g a further
of t lie cxp dltion. thc tiuccr
i otll. i.il circles Is Ikirtly due to
ris w'neli have b.on coming Into
i l' pirtment of late Indicating
s.i-ialled Carr.tnzlsta forces
io n Movlco ami particularly In
t haw an thing but a strong
o in the Carraliza Government.
' Hiv o iton of a comparatively
ii of tsnliiod troops constltutlnq
'ri'ila dimy of Alexlco most of tho
i irg.iiiu.ulons which have been
, ..i one side Of the other In
it e i principal followers of
i . i! ii.nl rs and, III feudal fashion,
. w i.'lnvcr side iiomlse most i
'I, ll, Mill, ii lint II I KM III 1 1 KM' leau
Iwlleved the Ambassador
tale u long lime before claiming; us
official paper the documents which con
tained evidence of activities to violate
the laws of the L'nltcd Slates.
This plan was blocked by the Am
nadolol's doUHind for t ie ictnrn of all
palKts iitid all phntognephs which had
been made of them and his refusal to
consider any proposal wheieliy ho was
lo choose the ones which should be re
garded as t ie property of the embassy
Intimation have come from the State
Department that the falrnem of the
Ambassador's demand has been recos
nlzetl Hinl that reuuests would be made
on the Depaitment of Justice for tl'.u j
SHAKESPEARE MYTH
SAYS CHICAGO COURT
SKNT TO WASHINGTON.
Itacon Wrote the Plays and
Hid Hehind Actor's Name.
Is Decision. 1
All on IkvI Hooaments Shipped to
llorner-ieerl.
The originals of all the documents and
various ikitn seized In the office of Wolf
von Igl at the lime nf the nung tier
man's urret were shipped posthaste to
lh Attoriiey-nencral In Washington yes
terday Thc will be turned over to Sec
rotary I.ai.suijr.
"Hy to-niorrow morning," said Cnlted
States Attorney II. Snow den Marshall,
('ontfiiiieif on .srcoinf J'apr
CAPTURED CARRYING
$400,000 MAIL LOOT
Nervous Traveller, Seized. Has
in Satchel Plunder of
Truck Rohher. .
(.erninii Trench Taken.
On the northern edge of the Mm is
Caiireltos, botweou l.o Mort Homme and
'umier"s, a Conn. in trcieii was occu
pied and on the custom bank of the
river a French attack made a gain
south of the Itols d'H.iuilronioni. Iie
twocn the village of Douaumont and the
ote du I'olvre.
The afternoon coiuniunl'iuo :il
West of tho Mouse the attack iindet
laken .esterday by our (loops in the
region of l.o Mort Homme progressed
oiirmg tlie night In addition we
seized a tteinii on the nortaern out
sNirti. of the i.'aureites wood anil made
prisoner four olllttrs ani l.'C soldiers,
liast of the Mouse u violent bom
tiaidmeut of our positions was folloned
at the close of tile iy U a powciful
oToiislve action by the enemy on n
'wo kilometer front Vtwovn th
Thlauinont farm and the Pond of
lint a utv (''clsivo effect
HOW NOTE ARRIVED.
CHIC.V.O. April St. William Shake
iiieart; was an Impostor. The pla.
lvrlcs and poems were really
Km.timoiik, Mil, April 21.-
shadows In Cromwell avenue, s,.cd
Schweitzer by the arm and held ieoh-
before Ills face. s Schweitzer '
started to buck awa. one of the foot,
patls. addressing the girl, said
"Stay where you are. oung woman
Weil be through with your friend In
Just about a minute."
As the pair tried to drag Schweitzer
away he drew a tollc whistle from a
pocket and blew a long, shrill blast.
ihnot at Snunil of Whistle.
Instantly both hlshw-iymen tired their 1
revolvers. Itolh bullets entered
Schweitzer's right breast As ho dropped
lo the ground the footpads took to thelt
heels going south along Cromwell
avenue
Th reports of the shots were heard
by policemen of both tb, High llrulgc
and the Morrlsania stations, who were
near the dividing line of the two pic
clncts. Hlcycle Policeman Smith ami I'atro.
uutii Mttlovein of the High llrldge t
tlmi, who were standing together, blu
rted to the point from which the sound
of shooting came Smith on his btcic
made the best time. As MUiovern ran
In his wake he saw a man crawling up
an embankment from the railroad tracks
about twenty-five feci north of the lllvci
avenue bridge. The man had a revolver
In his right hand. Mctiovern balled him
Just us he was raising himself from
under a wire fence on tho edge of the
embankment.
The man Itnn.ediatt l discli.it gea V.ts
levolver and McCoiern sank to Ids knees
with u bullet In his foiclit.ul He was
stunned for mly a second, however. As
, , , ... ...... l. 1 . IO lilt
lie raised nuns.- ... , m..- s , . , . ,..r,.m.h occupied lb.
Ill III- man oil II. e nih'- ! hi': v... ; .. ,.r.,,.,P
killed him Willi one shot, the bullet ;
llllt. III the
He is quoted m
llci liii loTnkc No "I in niedi
ale" Action: Pleads Holi
days for Di'ln.v.
State of the fedetatlon
saying '
'Probably the emplte will levy taxes .
on each State, although such a step Ik
not provided for in the Constitution, c'l' V'l' I.' llt,H I II'I'M 1,'VT
This Is. however, not the time for ton- - u I'm .1 n .n n.i i
stltutloii.il discussions, but for the recog
nition of hard facts. Hveobody must be
prepared for sacrifices. Many millions
of marks are needed."
0W LKSS IIOPKFUL
'IMPASSE IN SIGHT.
, Aiulmssadoi' Iiistruclcd to
I Impress (icrimmy With
Note's Wide Scope
Purls Foresees llrenkl llelleves
Colieessloiia Will .Not Xolve.
pmal CnlU Dftpnlrl. to Tiir. Si
Pttns. Anrll 21. The 7cmii in an
editorial headed "'letmany Fronting an
Imiiasse" considers that tile Ainet lean Al I 'c'l' ,'VI I I .V I.' VT
note leave, Cermnny no alternative be- . " 1 1 1 "-il. I
tween renouncing her inhuman prac-'
tiers '.mil a break. The paper says I
"It Is In the name of thc mo-t in- j
vlolable laws that America protests In
older that sea tragedies which fill thcl
world with horror "hall cease. Amet
lea therein Interprets the sentiment of j
nil neutral countries.
"American despatches show that If,
Wilson bus been forcetl lo tlo violence
to his pacific wishes In reaching ti de
cision he faces all consequences with the
utmost conlinns. The Senate has ap
parently slmlliir sentiments. Judging by
the ot my vote taken Just after the 11 es-
Idcnt's slieerh. Will the attitude of tin
Unit
SI BMAUIXK METHODS
Modify. Yes." Sii.v Ger
mans, "hilt Not Till Brit
ain (Jives Way."
W siistiTo', Apt II 21- Secretary ot
't'lte Lansing annouueoil th s afternoon
States change lleilln's point ofith.it the American note to (icrmaiiy oil
view ' Will Heilln lii.d a backdown mole . ii, at, ,iidotiment of her pros- nt method
"''"So'h conces-i "clal.y
si. ins Is more difficult because the ier- j oefote the Ceiman tiov. rnit nt. Ambas
man press r.diciiled American threats , s.ulor C.orard riotted to-day that ha
i ml persuaded the people of liorurtny Idelhei.d the note t the llerlni Foreign
Ha
Vaux. The liermatis who had gained ' lllticultles.
I'rrsK I tiiiiniriit In tierninn Hitler
llefore IteeellH of Note.
"jiftiu' t'ttite llt'iMH'i tu Tin: m
AiisTiiiPAji, via London, April '.'1.
The latest Herman paper received here
some of them puhli.sht-1 this morning, do
not contain even a simimity of the
American note, ami none makes any
comment on the Oerman 'American crisis,
The l.oknl .!: lrr of Thursday evening
amiounc.si that the note reached Herlin
Wednesday nlg'iit. with the exception of
one passage, which Ambassador (ietard
expected to get In time to present the full
note to the Foielgit Office on Thursday
A telegtam fiom Berlin announcltq;
till' iiresentation of the note yesterday
sla'.c-s that It was delayed by telegraphic
Ite.-ent comments ui tierman papers.
made pnot i" the lueseuiutlon of the
note, lane been bitter Tho l.oknl
I tender iiuiillslu d an Interview with th
PriiNi.tti Flnanie Minister, Herr Lentze,
in whirl tie latter predict" great finan
cial dlllicilltles in the emplte and In each
n foothold in our lines oiith of Fort
Douaumont ami mot i of the pond
were onipletelj th, own Uuk by our
toimtir attack' during t'ic night.
Two in. u hine guns, and a number of
prisoner loll into our hands
West of I K.,i.iuinoiit, in the so. tor
of Haudi ' mom wood. w- llltow se
niado prog! ess We rescued some
wounded Kronen prtoneis and cap
tilled a score of ieimatis.
The niht was calm on the r.ft of
the fiont ovte-it In the region of I,
Pretre wood, whore our artlller was
quite active
Tii-ila the Hermans uiidoi hkik a
heavy l,iinbardir.ent of Hie positions
wrested from them on I.o M irt Homme
and on the right bank of the Mouse
conducted an intense bombardment o'
the whole French front fiom the rher
to Fort Vaux, but there was no Infantry
action In the Verdun sector during the
day.
A C.ciman mine was exploded at Hill
2.",. east of lai lillo Morte anil north
of fourtes Chaussoes, In the Argonnc
In the fighting which followed the
lorthorn edge nf . vaslons of the middle west beioie the
,i. .. .1 i .... I ..ti.i.... ... r... r.i.,,1 i
l"i..s ,l. t v' is ,i,' ivi..7.!eii siie-.t 1 0"l"" ' -lerd.,y aft. rnoon
"The T. uloti people, tin, I it difficult to ( acoomiiaiiiid his nqiort with mforinat'.otl
unileistand that Its Onvernmont will ub- 1 which is not eni'oiirag.ng
tllcate bofoie Washington's Injunctions.! (ioinianv . It now appears not In-
;;r.:& - '" -
the caiiture .if Tiebizond would have a ' or l"" other on tho Proud, nt's dn
tllsastrous effect on public opinion, il- ' trand. The first t""i s that has com
reatly very tineas.v. 'fiom Ileii.n was that tin; Foreign Ofilc
"The Imper il Chancollei y faces, a I ... , . ., . . , . ,.
terrible r rnatlve. for it Is well aware wl" ""'-"J"' he American note at Its
of the grave efftcts that a rupture w ill' convenience, and this is understood tm
entail. Will It try some new evasion? , hine made a bad Imprt .n ii, ic Old
No shutllitig would give a permanent ' of tI. jjts.l( D..p.utnjent i.ntl tu-day
suiiiiiuii. , in ni.i , j o.is I'rrn iiivimiH '
to the point where ll must break with
tile Herman excuse that I nsldoratloil
tould be gueu to illlnm.itk matters on
r.olnla.ts was a poor one
the I'nttod States or withdraw. Tit
honor of the Cnlted State, can no more
be satisfied with vahi words."
The ( lots finds some obscui ity In
tho procedure President WIIsoii adopted
111 submitting his decision lo public opin
ion but concludes that (ienn.iny must
without uiulvooatlon or delu satisfy
the I'nitod States, n-iris.entln. the I American deinand I'hls
rights of peoples and the rights of nou- ,,. i,li;n conildci.t ..il
,r.'v ... . ... n.. , ii.. reai lied the Anicrican lin.
Piesldeiit Wilsons iipioiiii' solium
l.ornril' liiMlriii'lloiis.
Il is undorstood that Aiubis-adur Hers
aid has been given s.ome very stvcltlo
It.stiuctlons relative to the .iciqie of th
-id t' bo
i.le whlcli
s in IJirlill
jtsierda.v uioin.ng
measure." the paper sa.ve.
COLONEL LIKELY TO . VON DER GOLTZ DIES
INVADE WEST TWICE FROM SPOTTED FEVER
Max Arrauue Tour lo Arrive
in rliictiiro on .Moruinu'
Conventions Open.
(ieriiiiin Field Marsliiil Sin
t'linilis at Turkish A nut
llciid(iiartcrs.
i irsTi.n
Kuu.-i-l elt
IttT. 1.. I. Ainil 21
will pioUibly make two
Col
In-
liepubllcaii and
written , afternoon to look for
tiv l.ortl Haeon, lt.tron of Verulam. Vis- forged a money order.
count St. Albans and Lord High Chan
cellor of Kngtund son eurs ago.
.1 ml ire Iti'chard H. Tuthlll so ruled
i to-day In the Circuit Court despite the
e tun. the expedition was first fart that to-morrow Is the 300th annl-
f Shakewpeare's death and
i'... i nm,. , sttlklnir him In the temple.
in tne meantime i-oiu-eir.eu joiner ami
Miiruht- nt the Morrlsania station hear-
i man who had tm t, fuslllude ran up. They called
They didn't find , an ambulance from la-bunon llosplt'il.
him. but they stumbled Into one of the Dr Selss llrst plcSed up -Mcl.overn and
then drove hair a mile to tne sn wnoro
Sihweltzer was shot. Trv oung urtti ,
nri re.
biggest achleements in jears probably.
t
si
ir m men in Washington were
.1 -li.it si oner oi later either from
' i.nn-i f oi from these seml
ii' Ii t li.uli'i'i o jiosltlon would
Ii w.i- for tti.it reason that they
l-i lidorsul suggestions from Hen.
i Ma' h. bo permitted to take
no rnlionds. by foice If neces
, .1 i si- .etn for tho tupltl move.
' - minimis, push the expedition
' i with ,i I imssllilo spied, so that
1 pns.s lie to caiiture Villa the
I'd be iici'omplished quickly
iMipt wiihdiawu.
versa ry
the biggest In the history of Baltimore. ' , , taU.. m it ..,!; at 161st l-'f h" ' ; dovoloii.-il-lt Is pr
Instead of the forger they picked up street and Itlvct avenue, one block from ' ",',t ."( '''V"""' ,,ll'V''e
i:. J. Wulgloy jus, as he steppe,, fro,,, ahe scene of , lie mooting with the high- t P. ess tho Vrench
train from New York with a little black waMinn. i m uo.to, ;U1, if imsslbl.. foiiu a salient lu this
UllUIlllt'll 1 1 It'll ll III'' lll'i r.rii J ii til il i ...t.t..l, tl.. 1'i..n. t, nil!..
thiuughoul three centuries prartlrally satchel containing 100."00 In securities t))t, 10(lltll liml surg.sms began their
the whole world lias gone along tinner
the delusion that Shakespeare was
Shakespeare.
JUllge I lit till) WHS tailetl oil IO iieciun
l.e
promoter. to restrain i.oi, tieorge
Fativan. K.Uo K. Wells, Hlliabeth WeUs
Hull'up and the lllverbank Publishing
Company from ''defaming the name of
William' Shakespeare."
The plaintiff alleged that the defend-
stolen from a mall truck on a New York .urn it nf piobltig lot the bulb
feiryboat lu IVbiuary. I Miss Schlohloln after the shooting was)
iult in 1 hysterical cniiiinum aiu, u was wnn
, i illlllculty that she was able to tell the
ten oi .,.. ,.f ii,,. attack.
Houl and Dlsttlct,
lift
..I ih
It
tr
tl
I
( s
To
foiled to move slowl
inn, or truck ttanspnrta-
iis '. it ll.nl to be devised to
Hips supplied. Tie result of
-a d. noi only ionnltte, Villa
si si.ut on his pursuers, but
i . -ii. .ailed Carranzlstus to
iii i ir .iKitlnst tho expedition
t, -lo Opj li-O It.
I, i- their active oii,osltlou
ihan. o ioIuiiiua of the Amer
n gut is far south as Patral
1 i 1 1 in t they were alibi to stage
These securities arc now m
the ttost nflloe. OttlcJov Is In
..... i... i1.p.....fIi i. ii itittinctlon hOllirhl ... . . .. ... ....
l"" . : . ...r.... i..i Y.r.. ' me central police station, held for the Coroner Jerome
l,y William .N. ncilli, llio.iiis, ,.i ,. .,.., ., ... t,.,.ln uern r,otltl..,l uti.l tliev
i,-iirj,i, auinui uis un a cnurKC oi iiid.iiii v - '
robbery. The ioo, taken ftom the satchel ZC salh-w
Is part of the plunder In the celebrated , complexion, with dark hair Ho seemed
"Jl.00ti.000 robbery" that startled the to be about 2.'. .voars old and looked not
country because of the datiiiR of , he ' unlike a Cuban. Ilo was neatly dressed
in clothes o, iinru material itnn wore an
iuvorco.it. Miss Schlehbiti said that his
fate (Jtugle.v was at- companion also woio un overcoat Moth
conventions open on June
H-sliUs his trli to Chicago, whole he
will speak on the evening of Ap,l '.", It
s moie than likely that he will go to
Kansas Clt.v to tltllver an .tddiess on
MomotUl I.i. an invitation to that
effect limine come tu lit til to-day from
representative citizens of that city, war
veterans and mombeis of .ivlt, pic
p. itoilnoss mid business organizations.
t if still greater Interest, p irtliulatly
sector, which since the , leinu Willi- in tne iieiegatos to tne i.eiiiiniican con
drew lo the foot of the slopes, has volition, U tho Intimation that the Colo
withstood all ptessure mi after having dellvetol a ji.iti intlr ad
The oommuuluu Issuotl by t'n Fiench dress u, Kansas Cit) may extend his
(lorin.in gnus w,oo attivo against
Cliutllloii-soiiii.les-Cotes and llonvaux,
in the Woovro Until towns ale on the
railway sklitlug the foot of the .Mouse
heights If tho bonibaiilnieiit Is a pre
liminary to an Infantry attack the lat-
levelop.'d It Is prob
nipt
to
erdun on the heights of the .Mouse
l.i. M.,.'. vpril 21
II. iron U 1 1 : 1 1 . i- von
Wednesilav of spotted fever at the head-
Progressive national j quarters of th- Turkish army. An oil!.
1 cl.il nniiiinii'-i'.'iii'iit to this eitect was ,e
ioivo.I Inio from Hetlln lo-nghi He
, had been ill ton das
Mi. Hi'iard now mnloi statms. ib.it th
I lilted Stal"S 1 iovoi niiii nt in- sin that
1 1 i t ilia t. 1 1 1 1 ill ' i 1 1 it t . 1 1 ,i'. i. ui' and oltect
'an iibandunnioiit of pus. in Mibmatlnn
moihols w'.ihout tuitlier ,1'n menu ami
aiguiuont of any kind
i A no l.u.ittoii trom tiiiin.il lit subs
marine imihuiis ugaiust im . .laulmeii
will lie brought within i puscrlbcil
scoio of oMsting rnii i na .urn il law would
not bo .i. ii lit.ilil'' to t.n I'm lid .Stutttt.
i' was explained Hoiiuan.v must dn
. hire that this suliiuirino waif.ue has
been In ought within Hum .ontln.'s, and
must, fut the! mot. . 'ii nions'r.t'o from
now on that tli.s .s i,n use The sink
1,111 of a single sli.p lllog.illv. who, lie,'
Americans are on boanl o .ot. vvnultt
autom.itli ally vitiate licrieanv s ,ioi'lura
- Field .Marshal turn If It was proved that a tiirman sub
dor Uoltz died marine 'u lesponsibli-
Wltle
If Note,
I nri'ril in Im viiml). tnlH would Injuro the production of jobbers
d.a.inyoltlccs point out. Shakesi.eare's plays Hi moving p c ures , ,)y stlnlu.,,
to
EL PASO HEARS OF NEW CLASH. '
liumisnin- in ouui. .-.. .......v. . . ,i,.m. ,,,.. ,. i,. , i,iw..v men liml felt lints.
t-miii,.- io Mow that ttacon was iiiu i -
mithnr after Thomas F. Henson, alias John lien-
Publication of the volilui" 1" granted pen, -.,H Indlcti'd by the Federal Uraml
by the decision and Col. Fubyun gets ,u,j. ( Xow Vork for alleged complicity
h.nOO damages because of Inconvenience , p, the tobbery. He was arrested while
sustained by tin' publishing company. 'trying to pawn Jewels said to have boon
The collection of evidence presented stolen from one of the pouchesi. Four
by Col. Fabyan anil other llacon adher- pouches: wein stolen from the mall ttuck.
eiits ,-epiesents In Itself one of the Nervousness and peculiar uctloiiN uu
most complete htudles of the contro- the part of 'iillgley earned his arrest,
versy .vet undertaken. He cast huirled glances about the sta-
Shaki'Siieate was not un educated man, tltm when the Inspoctois first saw him.
'g they were aiiiii to stage i ,. n,.,.I1M scholar with un edu- ah he resembled sdluhtlv tin, nm,, il,.,.-
'" ' ' '" "' i cation equal or superior io imti oi any vveie seeiting they niiproached him
lino.o lstwoen a runner pur- f his as,e. the court holds, startled bv tho advance of the Inso
iiy.iiniig nun vriniuii, "iijtccausn literary people were irownca
11
xv.il of the American forces. .,. i,, i-inrlnnd during his time llacon
I'd in Tin: Si'n on Wednesday , Wfilt ,f, .urH and found fuvor there, pmveied. When senrched by the post I
il, War I loiiurl ment hns been ... ck..tnuiie:.reV ilentti the ..u.,A t,...,u.i,.a .. rti..A. .. .. , ,. . !
tors Qitlgley offered tight. Tho odds
were uguinst him and he wits soon over-
llopiirls of llntlle Willi CurruiiH
TriMipn .Not I'onltriiied,
lit, Paso. Tex., April 21. Hiimois we,e '
persistent hero to-night thut there had i
been u clash between American troojin
and Curranza troops near Casus Urandes,
but It lacked confirmation In otllclal
quartern. 'Ion. Heorgc Hell, .Ir, coin-
mandlng tho American border patrol,
suld he had heard the rumors, but had no i
confirmation whatever. He believed he
would know If there had been fighting,
Mexican Consul Andreas Unrein mid
Wariuflie to-night follows
In the Argonne. at Hill 'JxTi, wo o,-.
iipii il the noi lb edge of a t tutor
caused by the explosion of a Herman
mine
tin the left bank of the Mouse thoie
was ii violent bombardment of our
now positions at l. Mort Homme
tin the right hank them was Intense
enemy artillery activity from tint
Meuso to Fort Vaux.
In the Woovro tilt re was a lively
cannonade lu the sectors of Chatllloit
ami ltoiivaux. There was IH, infantry
action.
Duo of otll long range pleies bom
barded the railway station at Vlg-neiillcs-les.llattonehatcl,
northeast of
St Mlhlel. North of Itegnevlllo our
balteiios dispersed convoys on the
march to Nonsard.
Thole Is no important event to to
port on tlie rest of the front
Field Marshal von dor Holt, pc.ptil.til
known In Heiinanv as the "i ejuvonator
of th" Tutklsh arm." was 7:'. ears of
age Alter the occupation of Belgium
lie was for some mon'hs military 'iov
oi nor of the conquoiod kingdom Later
he wis sent to Constantinople to .., op
erate with the Tuikish War Mlnlstot.
l'.tivei Pasha, m.tlovisltig plans for upor.
atlons in Mesopotamia and tin- I'att
casus and the coutciupl.itod ililve afmiiis
Sin z and Fgvid A few d:ts ago a Binno
despatch lold of a rumor lh.it tin' Field
Marshal hid been wounded is the icsiilt
of an attempt at Ins life,
tout to Include two or time othoi large
titles and then enter Chicago on the
morning the conventions open, while the
Americanism is -till fresh lu the minds . SEES THE DUTCH IN WAR SOON,
of the middle Western people
Thoie ts talk that tho Colonel's Join ' snoliillsl I'liper Predicts Possible
no) to Ivansas l it) ho extended to ieii-
vvr, tiniaha and Dos Moines. Speechts
ill those cities during the six or seven , iittil t'atifc fi,'iii;f in Tns. s
u.i) s pn'ccnnig too ciiineiiuons are oius I .hMkin. April 21 the I tot to: da. u . or
Cnti'.i In lilulit llavs.
niontloned as possible and poweiful stint- resp indent of the Ihitly Mnil cables that
mains io aioiiHi- ,no peoiue ot iti.n sec ,. (.rss lu Holland conll itlcs to , auso
tlon of tho count,)' and the convention K1,.al atixlotv It Is undoi -toud. In-s.ivs.
delegates to u heroic mood. , ,i.,,t tierinany has Infoimod Holland
Bv this tour the I ololiel would (live , ,.,, ,..,,. lirltnln liitomt.il to ultiieU I tlo'tlttes
SM
Si. ilo Hi'ii.titmoni olll .als oxplulncit
to-ila that allhoiuh the President in
ofloi t demands tin nhand'inmcnt of sub
marino warfaie naiiist im r. ti.iutincn h
could not have worded li's dom mil in thlt
way tor the reason ili.il i'io Fnitei!
Males would have no rig it to ,i"k that
ilotm.iuv icfrain front us.ng suiiinarlncsi
as ntbei bolligtiotiir, u-o .rasois or
oi'tioi- wai'slilp.-.
Thus, ii i.s explained, if Hentitn) de-
s to have submarines l a c.im-
I'liign against onuni too c.u i'io!' b Inter
.tilting them, exot.isli.g the will I'sluh.
loied tig1' of v.sit .iii-t seii.ii a id then
sn king tluiii. altoi adoiiu it' '.v providing
for tho safely of the p is. ngi rs. no ob
jociloii could bo raised Hut .it. tins I
considered obvioiislv limn .ii ' i. anle tho
efl'o '1 or the Plesiilelit's .1. ill ll.d s that
subiii.i' mo narrate igt nt , ommeicn
I'aii'ii" iniist ho disoonl 'lined al'ngoiher,
nilli-i.ils at tho State Di P trt'iieiit agten
with the Hot man contintioii that subs
niaitnes aio obvious n-a - "isf ructcil
for this kind of wo-k T'ic riafl. In
the first place, aio t i i l effectively
to ,c cv on nior-hatii s'l.ps i ti, t keep
within Inti i national law .,, thn sanin
Itmo
A submarine challeng ng a large vesset
and thou i iideavoiiiig t" fulfil th'i
f intoniition.il law woubl
ADMIT FRENCH GAIN.
Oerinniik
of
himself the tumble of making a ttli all ,.r ., OIVorod to send Hotmail troops
un- .i. ii'i'i' ,-, i oi iv, ki'iiihk in it- jn Holland
Jusi lu time to turn around to go back I T(, s,K.ai,.st newspaper VnlK. win, h
to Chicago, and ho would thus In. able i , flrHt p,.0iosteil against Dutch mill,
to make a moro or less triumphal entry ; tarv moa!rcs. ..specially tho s,ppage
Into the convention city at the psycho- of K.AHU.r holidays for the troops, now
logical moment. writes lu a dllTetent vein. s.,y,IK
i hlti Is significant in view- of the popu-1 ..Afu.,. ., Mnlow b.twoon a So.
lar belief that the Progressives will uom- . ., ,H,,.,. ...,,i ,i. , i,.r ...... ,.,,.
male him for President on the very day , , nlli,11)y precautions are verv ' Philnod
tiie r coiiveniiou i tveiis. ami inat they ,,,.... , Tho i.oonln must suiumrt th.. marine s
will hold their nomination over the Heads ,.,.., IIMl ,st recognize that
i l tue vopiiomans as a ciuo to .nee , u. . , yH ..
them likewise to nominate him. Further- .
there are any number of delegates
moii
lienor! IVnolrntlon
Trench In Cmircltc Wamd,
. iiiu,,, ,(,,. m, .i,,j ,,ii i "' I'h'HF" 01m 11THPTV lrtfidn.n
War Doparl.nont has been ',:., . Bf,,r Skakeseare' death the Oloo ,,,., a revolver wis found T, 1 . 'rl' lavlra. i-oiiimnnd-r or th.v "-Zr
ohis.,1 Hint th- curratizlsta ..(Us now attributed to the latter were . t,,' i,Ip pocket. Thc satchel was then Juaiez garrlMii. denleii any knowledge ",., ,,,.,,". " I,,'" If.,.'.. ,T,.a.. ... .'i... ,. .... .
ferenco with punched and l.lMory credited him with opened and the securities were dumped 1 of any fighting or of any trouble . .jVoumie and to the' east of tho ' "in Kansas i city ine'oio,,Vi will sik " ' ' . ' . ' .
uxocrwrniTAV vrrTrTl I'l" W"B ecW 1,1 r,1'"' of i ' wll"r" J'resldent Wilson " -JNUlXilJ
nUXVOJj WUJUAIt AiXiiiXilJ, ti,,, Caiirotten wood, when, the Flench gave his picpaiedness talk, and the Colo. IIi.'MI'sTUap, L. I.. April Il.--Tvn
penetrated u Herman trcntii, I lie llgnt- nels filontls ate tolling themselves that jo.vd, a well to do Custom House In niter
very pmn.ilt'.v no n tu to , no iiotiom in
Hhott order bv tin. guns .!' merchant
ships whlih those vi s-1 Is hive the right
to eat ry fur difetisivt. iurpnsts Of. iC
Hit uiorch.int ship or passenger shl
wore 'not In th" open sea th. iniblli')'
of tho stihm. mil niuit'i'lii .nleiiuatel V
to piovlde fur tho st'it) nf the pas
senger or enw wtnilil no. t is exs
i Mumbling tilo, k tu tne sun.
efl'e. tiv etlcss. t'o 1 1 1 1 1 1 hart
contend. ',1 that boctiiso uf t!i.- .'n'omnro
i.iriviig shiis must he sot li without
fulfilment of mtoi national In
linVct of llcniii nil .
os at I ',i rial, iii afi
.1 W It. Brown of the Tenth .... thorshln. But from the evidence
i v following the attack on Major produced Judge Tuthlll says that h
! il- s detachment of the Thirteenth, (,e)HVoH Bacon whh the real author and
I it.irti ng that any attempt on the Hlinkespe.-ire's mime whs used as a tils
' Hie rlc.ins lo reenter Parral I ,iisn. The Judge vouched for the au-
I ftitihor south would probably I thorlty of the Baconian cipher. At the
....:.!.. ' .'. it fu.lrr.- .-t!.':n-.l"r.sd nn Inter.
si.iiin 1 1 1 ii . . " n
lilt.)..
j , im,,,.'
ui. ai tho Department now un- veiling petition glvlne tlie order of Jestu
i'ii.h it. is the deadline wmcii tne , tH credit for tne wonts.
nz Mas in Chihuahua ut least nave
1 ml upon, Whether It Is n dead
l sod 1 C.iH'aiua is what Ik not
"' t ll Is Mitllclontly disturbing to
' ir '.illln is hero, however, thnt 1,600 so
il 'I I iiraiiza troops liuve left Chi
Uu ni city for u point south of Parntl.
t"u 'iipc, at Sunlit Cruz lunch. Just
' of Pnral, to whloh pulnl Major
' nil s troops were driven by tholr
t iil.uiu ul Parral, an; now located de
'' " inns nf tio Thirteenth Cavalry un
it. M.ijui Toiuiikliin, the. Tenth (col
"di iindor l.loul.-Ciil. Blown, tho
i' "ith under Lieut. -Col. II. T. Allen
I r (in- machine, guns. The encanip-r-rit
In locitletl liehlnd-iin uduhe, wall.
C'oiillimcd oh fifth Page.
t lu believed that tho Sell Interests
will' carry the mutter to the highest
touiis. ....
"What?" txctalmed Julia Arthur whon
told thut Biicrti hud been adjudged tho
author id Shukesiicurn'M plays.
"Shiikespciire thrown out? How fool
ish ! Well, It won't do any good, t
know tri.it. I for one could never act
Macbeth' or 'Borneo and Juliet wero
Lord Francis Huron's name to appear
where William Hhukcspeare's doea now.
When I have acted In Shakespeare tho
Ihriisht cf Master William und his won
tlerful fuco ins ulwHys been In tho butk
ot nty head. No ctor or actress could
pei'firin 'llt-mlef as ably were It billed
im Bacon's. It U presterout, and noth
ing more than a quibble."
out.
tjulgley denied all knowledge of what
the satchel contained, Ho said he picked
It up on u train after It had been left
Isrhlnd by a woman.
Following Is a list of thc bonds, Mocks
and Jrnels, vuiisiKlieil lu New Yolk from
Baltimore, that were stolen from the
pouch on the f err) boat, most of which
were In the satchel taken from Qulgley:
Mercantile Trust uml Deposit t'oniiiunj,
t.'nliil. kiid Kmithern Pacific and New Vork
t.'enlrMl storks ami l.ninls. worth 1300,000,
I:1 ill I a 1,1 Trust f.'uiupitiiv ntooka slid
bom Is. with slb-lit draft uttiMin.il, 3 s . 0 c o .
Mitllh, Locklmrt & Co., Isi,ers, botid,
I'.'S. DUO,
Artutr imrvey ti wo, iiaiiHrrs, inuustrtui
atniks. It "000
vt' W Lumihun A Pn
burJters, torku
locks and bonds.
J. llunnunus Fisher,
ID. ooo.
J H. Wilson & Co., bankers, Blocks and
bnmls, t'JS.000,
Almtuniler Bronn A Hons, bankers,
atoiio unit bonds, 130,000.
Annlner Co., Jewellers. 1500,
llennecnii. Halm A Co., Jewellers. 1100.
stumuel Kirk A Hons, Jewellers. 12.000.
Qulgley unld that he lived at Itldso
flcld, ,N. J, . ....
11 Uk Mnhel I'. I'linn. Thrnnn rruni inir still contimirs there.
. ... , ... . . . Two other French attacks miido last
Mount. Illra In W -slilimt on. w,.r ,.ninl,.tely repulsed. Chic.
WABltlNtiToN, April 21. Miss Mabel ' Miutli of llautlioinont, was made In a
C. Flynn, il2 years old, of Warrenton, renewal of the Fiench effort", lo recap
Va well known In society circles In I ttire the quai ry. The oilier was a rope
Washington and Virginia as an expert ! tltlon of the attacks lu tho Calllette
horsewoman, died this afternoon at the
limergency Hospital from Injuries ,e
reived on Saturday last, when her mount
stumbled, throwing her and falling upn
lit r.
Her spina was injured und one of liar
r'bs fractured, besides suffering severe
shock.
Tho accident occurred during a drag
hunt of the Warrenton Club,
Miss Flynn wiin a familiar figure ut
Washington horso shows, at Virginia
nieetH und wnn frequently a rider at
thc Madison Square Harden horso show
In Now Vork.
Thn body will be taken to Wurrenton
to-morrow for burial.
The Colonel's advisers believe the mid
dle West wants piepareduess, and that
the pacifists, who made the recent "liuth
wood. Fighting begun last night around i About preparedness - lour qui not arouse.
Fiench trenches south of Fort Douau. much enthusiasm. The Kansas City
inont still continues. branch of the American Legion Is nun of
Tho heavy artillery activity continues1 the organizations asking the Colonel to
In the Vaux sector and on tho Heights deliver the Memorial Day address, and
of tho Mouse and lu the Wocvre. this organization sent President Wilson
Tl,.. Herman statement said: 1 n telegram the other tiny telling ll I 111 that
l,,' the Mouse reirlon stubho.il In. t"f "Truth . Alsiut Preparedness" tour
c.ntev flizhtlni- develoned In cnitliine. "lel 11 I'1'" c"'
if Mr. Wilson aroused his listeners In with olllcos a' l.'i mid 2.1 Whitehall
Kansas City, then Itoosovelt can till thont sireet. Manhattan, who i as a beaut fill
with enough enthusiasm to blow the loof 1 ..niintrc place hi .forus'iloni mem,.. ..).
off the hall. Induing" that of Mrs. II Banltonsselucr
Hon with a great Incieaso of activity
on the pait of the artillery on both
sides. West of tho river tho French
made an itttuck with large forces
against l-c Mort Homme and to tho
east thereof. In general these attacks
Continued ot Third Page,
I'ortnarnl lo Intern lirrmana.
Special Vahle Dripnleh lo Tin; Sex
LtsiioN. via London, April 21 The
Ciovernment in a decree Issued to-d
ordered all Hermans of inllitaiy age now
Ir. Portugal to be Interned, and those be
low or above military age to be banlnhcd.
Kennedy. s strangely pissing Ilo Is
believed lo bo a victim of iiinuthla
Mr. llotl bit Ins rifilco at ;. ,n
Wednesday iiltoniooii cnnii.tiy to Ills
custom of thlit) yens of leaving at .'.
o'clock Thin liiorulni' Dr. W'ill.im
Hamlet, a dentist of Janial.'a, saw him
In the suhwa.v. Ho told the dentist lie
had boon ruling lu the subway all uiulit,
A little later olio of his clerks saw him
near Whitehall street, since which time
no trace of hlui hits boon loiin,1
Kdward 1' llodd). a btother-iu-iuw'.
has boon scaichliig Manhattan al' dn
u hope of finding tho iiiissmu ma Ml
tho hospitals have boon visited and
Police llradquaiioi.s have hoi u keeping
a close watch on every one, bitnighi in.
Bo)d Is a widower, uml lived aluno
In UU lurtie ulucv w Uh out- act" ,Mit.
I 'i is limit WiNon li. iw ui.
nitloti.il law must be , . i..l -I with ut
submarine waifaie , 1 1 i.i i I - m . -, I .s n $
Imiioss.ble. a.Mirding t.. Im '. the Auie s
l.ali and Herman viewpoint f.,r subs
maillios to ohi' lli.s 'aw i .1 l,o clfios
tlvo it the same t iuo th.. pi i 'l. al cfs
l",t .1 1)1' ll,l , 'i-,.s ,,1,111 1 S llO'.',"ll IM
' ab.tiitlniiiin. nt of subni.iiini' waif.ini
against iiioriii.uitmcii
i In explaining the d s.i.lvantage
which suluiiai met wou'd -'iinr In uls
toinpinig to cart) on ,i . rut-, i- warfat'fl
uuamsi nieri.hintnioli.St.ee I iep irtmonti
otllcial.s to-d.i.v udmltlod lh.it certain
routines appealed to .nvuho unjust
risks fur iho submarine oinmnudci le
was iidmiitoil tha' a s'lhtn n Ino coin
matiiler aiiompilng lo niu v Inlornas
ttouiil law In no attack agunst un
ai moil mi l liianlin.iii might fa,. vef'.'
hadb und would ecrlaiii'v ii"k his ltf
mid Un hvos of Ins tow
"Bui i' is not a qiicstio' of whether
l' . - ) ist .,n oi.lionti ot i si tte De
paitinoni I'xpl.itnoil it is t i. law nt
urn. mis. and tho I lilted States in abM
: lug by the law us ll tcanils uml not b"
I new vcrsluus ot international Uivjvuk'4
