rimnnc a ttt tt rwiriTrx- a im
AJNT
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAi
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
14 PACES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNINd, APRIL 22, 1910
14 PAGES
VOL. XXVI., NO. 338
EPUBLIC
BOIAUT
shaes mtu
tierduii
Kii.ui Xo ( )ther Point on 1 lit
Western Front (mes
News of a Clash Ketween
til.
Forces
Contending Military
IMMTISII DEFEAT
IN MESOPOTAMIA
Prevalence of Opinion
Germany Will Not Accede '
To United States' Demands
That is tin View of Berlin
Official Sentiment That
lias Been Gathered by the
Associated Press from Va
rious Sources
Turks Admit ihe Loss of
Trebi.oiid Which They
Say They Abandoned le-
ause They Had More Ini
jMirtant Business
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I in all fronts around Verilun, the
lerinans are heavily bombarding
1'rwirh positions, especially those occu
pied l.v thf French in their last at tuck
around Ie Mori 1 (online,
f the fortress, unci in the sector from
the eastern hank of the Meuse to Kort
aux. No infantry engagements have
taken place around Verdun, although
Paris records the occupation of u por
tion of a crater made by a Herman mine
i; the Argoiine. forest.
The Teutons in "east Galieia near
IVMvaKora went on the offensve
iigainst the Russians, hut Petrograd
asserts that their efforts were without
usult. The bombardment by the Ger
mans of the Russians holding the lk
skull bridgehead is still in progress.
Farther south of this point, west of
lka, and north of Mnurivatza, the
c.ernians essayed an attempt against
Russian trenches but were repulsed.
(in the Austro-ltalian front, there
have tieen the usu;.l artillery duels and
at various points small infanlryengage
jnT.ts. At no point, however, has any
nriMirtant change in fbsition taken
place.
tvirograd reports that the Russian
'auasus army continues on the offen
sive against the Turks in the Black
Sea district of Asia Minor. Constan
tinople, in acknowledging the occupa
tion of Trebizond by ne Russians says
tie town already had been evacuated
in anticipation of its capture, the Turk
.sli troops withdrawing "In accordance
with instruction to a sector where they
ill huve a new tusk to fulfill."
Another deafeat of the British In the
Tigris region near Felahie, is recorded
ly Constantinople! The British are de-
lareil to have been forced to abandon
with heavy losses advanced positions
ti,e hail ocrupied and compelled to re
lr;it we-lward.
A PREPAREDNESS STEP
f Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BKHUN, April 21, G p. m. (Via
London April 22, 12:12 a. m.) Noth
ing has yet developed as a result of
(hp receipt of the American note to
Germany concerning Germany's sub
marine warfare. No expression of
opinion is obtainable from the foreign
office, where absolute I reticence is
maintained.
Neitner the note nor any reference
to it has been published in GcrmanyJ
and there is no intimation as yet
t"n the note will be made public.
The celebrations of Holy Week, and
(f the East r tide therefore are pro
ceeding undisturbed by any knowl
edge of foreign complications. The
ministers anu other ffieials who
weie entitled to it received a, copy of
the note this mi, mill? and were en-
northewest "aaed durinir the dav in studying the
document.
As far as the Associated Press has
been made acquainted with the senti
ment in higher quarters, it would lie
wrong to regard the situation as any
thing but extremely grave. The note
probably will he answered some time
next week, after serious consideration
Wis been given the American con
tention, but there is little hope that
any answer can go to the length
demanded bv the Washington govern
ment, despito the fact that the gov
"tninont desires to maintain gocd re
lations with the United States
The sentiment is against any fur
ther weakening of Germany's subma
rine compaign, to say nothing of an
abandonment of it.
I WASHINGTON, April 21. Or-
I ders to speed up repairs and over- i
I ers to speed up repair and over-
haul work on vessels of the At-
lantic fleet hate been sent to the
I commandants of the uriousuvy j
I yards by Secretary -Daniels. In
case of labor shortage the com-
maiwlants are instructed to ex- j
I rediate the work by employing
die ship's personnel. The move j
was explained as' a ''preparedness I
! test " !
I !
:
TUB 1
f
USES CHIEF
EARLY EVACUATION
N N DEfl GDLTZ
nm'uassador, was not in Washington
today. lie left early this morning on
a week end trip. Ue is not expected
to return to the capital until Monday,
unless dit-putches of an important
naturo bearing on the submarine is
sues should be received before then.
The German embassy is sending
many informative dispatches to Ber
lin. The majority of those sent so
far have contained interpretations of
public and official opinion, and the
ambassador's own views on the situ
ation. It is known, that Count von
Be-nstorff has strongly recommended
to his government to so modify sub
marine warfare as to bring it with
in wh it th, l'nited States regards as
the law.
-o-
Mar-New
Oreat (ierman Field
shal Who Created
Ottoman Military System
Succumbs to an Attack of
Spotted Fever
HOST
OF MEXICO
IDED UPON
GENEROSITY OF PRES. CflHRftNZft
I USE
SHE'S QUITE SURE
SHE SAW VILLA
Horror and Desolation
I'AltlS. April 21, :12 p. in. - -Gaston
I -si hauii-ax w riting in the Temps,
:ives a vivid description of his visit to
Hie Verdun front, from which he has
jiist returned. The account follows:
The Vast ha.ltlc field was veiled by
it si. ety rain hut Verdun. Douamount
md I.e Mort Homme were vaguely
'iitlnod in the distance. Verdun
wounded, but still upright stood like a
i--i,ti:iel guarding the entrame of the
alley above the blackened ruins of
l uses while the towers of the cathe
dral ro--e like two oi.i.tretcht'd arms in
protest against the mistry and desola
ion .ilniut them. The 'cathedral still
j lands unscathed.
"V illages now are abandoned and
),' become tnilitaiy position where
the presence of civilians is imposible.
The whole asect of the vast panoran-
uma is one of intense meloncholy
Delivery of the Note
Washington, April 21. Ambas
ead.ir Gerard at Berlin, cabled the
state deportment today that he had
delivered the Ameiican note on sub
marine warfare to the German foreign
office at 4:30 o'clock yesterday after
noon. Secretary Lansing said later
he had not be?n advised just when a
reply might he forthcoming. Other
officials, however, indicated that they
expected it by the .middle of next
week.
Ambassador Gerard is known to
ha'e entered into a brief conversation
with Foreign Minister von Jagow
fter delivring the communication.
Although ti e . contents of a second
message- received late today from Mr.
Gerard, was closely guarded, it is un
derstood that the ambassador in
formed the department he-had been
assured that immediate consideration
would be given to the note.
li becanv? known tonight that sev
eral messages have been received from
Ambassador Gerard during the pay
day or so.
t It was stated authoritatively, how
ever, that they transmitted only ex
pressions of editorial opinion from
German newspapers. These editorial
excerpts were closely examined by of
ficials in an attempt to gain sem?
understanding of the state or German
public opinion.
1 Dispatches from the ambassador
are looked for momentarily to give
definite information regarding the
j views of German officials, the manner
, in which tile note was received and
r. ... -.r ., K ,.h .. 111 ha
nina:,in "i mr- i:tu"ii nm n ,,.. .....
taken by the German government in
Reoublican A. P. Leased Wire
I.OS ANGELES. April 21 Mrs.
Rose Conn, a nurse who performed
Bed Cross work in Mexico during
1913 and 1914, reported to the federal
authorities here today that she was
confident that she .'-aw Francisco
Villa, the Mexican bar.dit leader, on
the street here last Wednesday after
noon, officers are investigating the
report mad" Ly Mrs. Cohn but ex
pressed the opinion that the nurse
r.robahly saw a man who reseml4ed
Villa.
Mrs. Cohn said that she was stand
ing on a corner near the business dis
trict, when sh say the man believed
to have been Villa enter an automo
bile with two Mexican women. The.'
drove away toward the residence dis
trict before they could be pointed out
to any one. by the nurse.
"I don't knew where they came
from,v' Mrs. Colin said. 'They --.-alked
to the curb and seated themselves In
a large black motor car, the driver of
which was a Mexican. Before 1 had
time to act Uiey drove away. I am
sure I was n it mistaken."
o
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
AMSTERDAM, April 21. (Via Lon
don Aoril 22) liuron Kolmar von Der
Goitz, commander-in-chief of' the first
Turkish army died Wednesday of
spotted fever at the headquarters of
his- Turkish army according to an of
ficial announcement received hern
from Berlin. Ho had been ill ten
days.
rieiu Marshal vor: lier Goltz was
regarded as one of Germany's great
est strategists. lie was 72 vears of
ago He had seen extensive military
"erviee, having fought in the Austrian
campaign and been on the staff of
Brine? Frederick Charles in the
Franco-Prussian war. In 1XX3 he was
rent to reconstruct the Turkish army
and remained in Turkey for thirteen
years.
In August -1914 he was appointed
military governor of the ooc.iicl part
of Belgium but in November of the
same year he was relieved of this
command and sent to Turkey where
he was apiiointed military comman
dant at i 'on.-tantinople and acting
minister of war. He was instrumen
tal in forming the strong Turkish de
fense on the Gallipoli peninsula and
frequently predicted tl at the allied
fleet would not tie able to f rce a
passage of the Dardanelles. He re
ceived his command as chief of the
first Turkish army in Aiuil of last
year when he succeeded General Li
man von Sinders in command of the
Dardanelles.
Recent dispatches report y.n Der
Goltz engaged in the operations in
Asiatic Turkey. Before '.he fall of
Erzenim he was said to be hoi tied up
on the Turkish stronghold with S'l.
(iiiti Turks.
FftCILITATE ftMERICAK DEPrtBTURE
REP0RTAWA1TED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
El. PASo, Tex., April 21. It was
unofficially stated in Juarez tonight
that General Carranza would in all
probability place the Mexican rail
roads at the disposal of General Per
shing if the expeditionary force was
withdrawn. General Gavira, the Juar
ez commander, while declining to
make a definite statement, expressed
his belief that the use of the rail
roads for the withdiawal of the
American troops would not be re
garded unfavorably by theCarruny.a
government.
The decision on :ojeh a step," he
said, "rests solely with General Car
ranza and his. advisers and it would
not be proper for me to express my
views. However, 1 feel sure that our
government is willing to do every
thing in its power to maintain the
friendship between Mexico and the
l'nited States and will take any step
which is compatible with the dignity
of the Mexican nation. To have
given the railroads
DAY OF MOURNING
VERA CIU'Z, April 21. The sec- !
ond anniversary of the landing of j
American troops in Vera Cruz was
observed today, as a day of mourn- j
ins.
J
remain in Mexico seriously increases
the danger of an outbreak on the part
of the people which might have the
gravest consequences.
Activity Yet at Columbus
COU'MBrS, N. M., April 21 While
the American forces in Mexico
marked time awaiting the outcome of
the conference to be held in San An
tonio between Major General Hugh I..
Scott, and Major General Frederick
Funstun, preparations were being
made here to continue operations
from this base. A quantity of food,
forage and equipment was unloaded
and two heavily laden truck trains,
each consisting of twenty-seven motor
to the American trucks left, fi
IF GEN. SCOTT
IE
It Is Announced That the
Expedition In Pursuit of
Villa Has Been Brought
to a Standstill Pending
Developments
TIIK REVOLUTION
OF FELIX DIAZ
The Information Which Is
Causing the State De
partment Some Uneasi-
Xot Been Dis-
licss Has
dosed
troops entering Mexico would havc;jng the
been a step which would undoubtedly motor ambulances
have been deeply resented by the Several members of the army aero
Mexican people but to permit them to (.()rps prepared for service two of the
use the railroads to leave Mexico j t.iKht new biplanes ordered for expe
would be a very different matter. ( ditionary purposes. It was said the
Mexico has a w arm regard for Pres- ! planes would be erected, and ready for
ident Wilson and believes that lie is i trial flights tomorrow.
BACON-SHAKESPEARE
IS ADJUDICATED
a true' friend of our republic.
Mexican official'; here and in Juarez
are keenly interested in the coming
conference between General Scott and
leneral Funstun at San Antonio.
They are convinced that on this con-
renccs hinges the decision as to the
withdrawal of the American forces
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 21. President
Wihron and the cabinet discussed the
Mexican situation todav. hut im
the front. Accompany- decide on anv course of action i,,.
trains were several field , ther steps by the United States to
ward the pursuit of Villa or withdrawal
of the troops from Mexico will await
a. full report from Major General Scott
fhief of staff of the army, as to con
ditions on the border and in Mexico.
General Scott, who reached San An
tonio, Texas, tonight, to confer with
General Funston, was not expecting to
send a report on the situation until to
morrow. His full report upon which a
decision as to the next step to be taken
I probably will not be made until his re
j turn to Washington. When he left
( The erection of the barbed wire
stockade for the confinement of Villa
prisoners was completed today but at
military headquarters it was stated
that no intimations had been re
ceived as to whether any- prisoners
are now on their way to the border.
A soldiers' Y. M. C. A., to replace '
OKLAHOMA AMMUNITION PLANT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TFI.SA, Okla., April 21. Engineers
appointed recently by the naval con
sulting board to represent Oklahoma
in making a survey of the country s
industrial resources declared here to
day that a large government ammu
nition plant probably would tie estab
lished in this state. The engineers
I did not give any reasons fur the
statement. H. V. Mozell of Norman,
was elected chairman of the Okla
homa board, of which the other mem
bers are: C. V. Klnkey. Oklahoma
City: M. M. Valerius, ..Tulsa; and Ed
win De liarr, Norman.
o
TEN PER CENT WAGE INCREASE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, April 21. Francis ,Tia
con was declared to be the author o
the Works of William Shakespeare in
a decision rendered in an injunction
suit today by Judge Richard S. Tut
hill in the circuit court. The decision
dissolved an injunction issued on the
petition of William N. Selig, a motion
picture manufacturer, to restrain
George Fabyan publisher and others.
from completing the publication of
books supporting the llaconian theory.
The court held that the name
Shakespeare had been used simply as
a disguise. "The claim of friends of
Francis Hacon." the court said, fur
ther,' "that he is the author of the
works of Shakespeare, and the facts
and circumstances in the vast bibli
ography of the controversy over the
question and proofs submitted herein
convinces the court that Francis Ba
con is the author."
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SHARON. Pa.. April 21. The Shar
LIBERT! SIS
EOUALITYFDn
IE D ER
POSTAL THIEF
IH THE TOILS
CI I IIPIV CTDflCi
t) LUU Id U L
.f black smoke and debris. From time
lime, fires were started by bombs I
Mod here mid there village houses wre J
1 1 htaxing through the mists, but
through nil this scene of fire and ex-j
.lo.io:i no human b.y g could be seen
:it:yhre, as it was hidden monsters
f mnl which faraway were working
?hei lerrible destruction. The absence
.f human activity added to the supreme
amines. "
response t the demand of the l'nited
At Stales, that it declare and effect an on- Steel Hoop company has granted I
abandonment of the present methods, its 'JdO emploves a wage increase oi
10 per cent effective May I. accord
ing "ils. incendiary bombs burst
.imong the ruins, throwing great clouds ; of conducting submarine warfare.
Count vov) Bernstorff, the German ing to an announcement here today.
The Day at Vordun
PARIS. April 21.-12:20 p. m The
Vu tieh contiiiui-d to ..rike progress in
the region of Dcadman's Hill on the
i i ll ii ii front In the fighting of last
riicht. The war office announcement
iotay reports the capture of German
trenches and four officers and 150 men.
Ivist of the Meuse a fierce attack was
r pulsed. In the sector south of Hau-tr.-mont
wood the French made gains.
Ti e text of the statement follows:
"West of the Meuse the attack un
der, aken yesterday by our troops in
the region of Le Mort Homme pro
l Continued on Page Two)
PRIM (IF TH T Tl
I IIIUUIIUMW Ul I lib. L.W 1 WIIU
IN GERM SOUTH
i
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, April 21, 9:30 p. m. A
Reuter dispatch from Cape Town, deal
ing with the report of a commission
of Inquiry Into the local treatment or
prisoners of war by. the Germans in
Southwest Africa foUows:
"A sensation has been raised by the
publication of the official report of the
commission of inquiry into the treat
ment iif prisoners of war by the Ger
mans In the Southwest African cam
paign, revealing another story of the
shocking treatment of British prisoners
and showing a complete lack of organ
ization or control.
"The" food rations were coarse and
hecame' so Insufficient that the men
were reduced to waiting in line to drink
the blood of slaughtered oxen and to
boiling the soft parts of hides to ex
tract nourishment. They were scant!
ly clad and harshly treated, some be
ing sorit on long railroad journeys clad
in a tirnic, a short loin cloth, and san
dals and helmet, a spectacle says the
report, for the women natives who saw
them on the road. The German gov
ernor, Seitx ordered them placed in
irons during their transit. One officer,
i Captain Geary was hold in solitary con
I rinAn.1 bIt mnlilhH in n Rmall
cell of filthy sanitary conditions and
filled with vermin, and threatened with
confinement in a daik cell if he dared
to look out of. the window.
"When the officers complained to
Governor Seitz he told them they ought
to be thankful for what they got. Ill
treatment was not confined to war
prisoners. Ilritish civilians who were
political prisoners with women and
children were confined in common
Jails sleeping ten in a single cell with
locked door, resulting in sickness and
disentary owing to the disgusting san
itary conditions.' ,
"The report was discussed in the
house assembly, the members demand
ing that the guilty German officers be
brought to Justice. Generaj Louis
liotha, in reply, deprecated hate and re
venge. He said that he had already
protested to the German authorities and
oooimio during the nrxt five years to government extending its credit to the i the home government and added that
l- usel with the actual amount con- states for fifty years to the extent of j happily the prisoners had. been released
ir.buted by the slates for road building, $000,000,000 for road building purposes. I and were no longer suffering.
L. Al Club W omens
Cold Shoulder
For Suffragists
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LOS ANGF-LKS, Cal., April 21. No
women's club of Los Angeles or this
vic'nitv will receive officially the par
ty of women who will arrive here to
morrow representing the Congression
al t'nion for Woman Suffrage ac
cording to club women here today.
Instead, the approach of the "Suf
frage Special" was the, cause, it was
said, for the passage of resolutions
today by 'he Friday Morning club
stating that the club was "unalterably
opposed to a woman's party."
The .resolution introduced by Mrs.
Seward Simons, the president, who
did not mention the Congressional
Union. The trip of the suffragists
here, from the east it was said was
avowedly tl further the passage by
congress of a universal suffrage con
stitutional amendment. The mission,
however was interpreted by the club
women here as intended to organize
women into a separate party to im
Hpss male leaders with their voting
strength.
Bankhead Road Bill
Against a Stone Wall
Republican A. P. Leased Wire tried unsuccessfully to. get unanimous
WASHINGTON. April 21. Aftr three consent to a vote on his measure. Sen
., , w . ... , ator Lodge refused the necessary con
days debute on the Hankhead Good apnt
i(..ads bill, the senate adjourned late j rjurin(j the debate, Senator Harding
Kxtav with out reaching a vote and tin- obtained the adoption of an amendment
irr the recently adopted legislative pro- . which would require the states to guar
gram the measure now will be dis- nntee to maintain the roads built by
placed by the rural credit bill. This Is federal aid for a period of ten years,
"-nerally regarded as meaning that Senator Smoot offered as a substitute
lbre will be no road legislation at this for. the Bankhead bill itself a substi
jjjj,,,,. . tute for the Shackleford bill, passed by
Senator Hankhead in charge of tne the house the so-called Bourne bill,
lull which would appropriate $75,- which would provide for the federal
here, the chief of staff said he would
mil thev make no secret of their! some or the amusement places which . . . ""suuii iiiu return as
.... .1. . rilllCklv n nncuil,la tr ..1 . .
anxiety that such a withdrawal , nave sprung up witn tne musnroom-i J . . tuum not :n-
should be ordered. The opinion is I like growth of the town, was estab- I l'lf,a,e hpw long he might be gone.
frankly expressed that every addi-! lished today. The formal opening will i -aiming -worn, irom General Scott,
tional day that the American columns' be held Easter Sunday. Secretary Baker reiterated his state-
oent mat no cnange nad been made in
the orders to General Funston. and that
the deaprtment.had no knowledge of
any change in the latter's orders to
General Pershing. . No official report
had been received, he said, that th
expedition was at a standstill.
The secretary submitted that an of
ficial dispatch had carried as a rumor
the report that Mexican officers had
warned General Pershing not to pro
ceed south of Parral. It was learned
at the state department that a report
to this effect was transmitted some
uivs oeiore tne farrai incident through
consular agents. Mr. Baker Insisted
, i l m l ! 'at the warning had made no change
IMlWarU (.JUlley taken Oil in the department's order to the bor-
that a reply
s telegram, calling
attention to the clash at Parral and
asserting that the American comman
der had violated his orders and the
agreement with the de facto govern
ment in entering the town, would be
dispatched soon. War department of
ficials say the report on the incident
from General Pershing, Major Tomp
kins and other officers is not com
plete. It has been withheld from pub
lication because of the flat contradic
tion it contains of the advices from
General Carranza as to the part his
troops played in the fighting.
Wiht this report as a basis, the Par-
Mrs. Harriet Stanton Watch
Says Women Who Vole
Here Are Disfranchised
In Other States; Suffrage
Luncheon Ycslenfav
SuspK-ion of Minor Crime, 'd,T forces'
- ,. t,,u,,.,. It was indicated tonight
111 Possession Ot .t40 ) 'JJ0f to General Carranza's tele.
in Securities, Contents of
Pouch Stolen Fehruarv !2G
Endowed with a keen insight into Republican A. P. Leased Wire
economics and with a vague but pow- .BALTIMORK, April 21 A man giv
erful appeal in her personality, Mrs. i ing the name of Edward J. Quigley,
Harriet Stajilon lilatrh, noted suffrage I having- in his possession all the se
worker, voiced the keynote of the cam- jcurities stolen on a ferry boat at New
paign of the Congressional I nion for York on February 2ti, w:uj arrested
National suffrage, now being waged by j here this evening.
the unique irieans ot a tour of eastern j The arrest was a piece of good luck
envoys to the "free" states. Mrs. Watch i by the postal authorities. Quigley
was the "head-liner" on the program of was seized on suspicion of being
speakers who held forth at a luncheon i wanted in St. Ixniis, 'for raising
in the Adams hotel yesterday afternoon.
While the other speakers described
the difficulty and in some states, the
impossibility of getting action in their
legislatures on suffrage, Mrs. lilatch
summed up with the ideas that form
the motive power of the Congressional
Union the organization that refuses
to recognize party responsibility, and
is hacking at the central authority of
Ihe country congress, itself. She de
scribed Gladstone's fight to enfran
chise the farm laborers of England, his
lead in the liberal party in the struggle
to add two million workingmen to the
list of citizens. She had witnesesd part
of that struggle, she declared men who
did not want to enfranchise women
were merely opposing their own en
franchisement. For men cannot be en
tirely free, if half the population the
women are not free. "You women of
Arizona, though you have the vote
are not on an equal plane with men, so
long as the women of any other slate
have not the vote. A man goes east
money orders. An alleged confeder- ! ral incident will be treated as a mat
ate named Geoqge F. Windall, was ar- 1 tcr entirely1 separate from the sugges
rested with him but is held on a tion of the de facto government that
technical charge. Quigley fought thf- troops be withdrawn. Officials in
against arrest hut was overpowered, dicated that Carranza's attention will
His alleged confederate' submitted be called to the discrepancy in the two
quietly. Quigley's grip contained a versions. They thought it unlikely he
large bundle of certificates of stock would attempt to uphold his original
report in the light of more recent in
formation, and no lengthy correspond-
Of the Haltimore anil Ohio r:iili-o;ol '
the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy,
New York City stock and other se
curities of an aggregate face, value
of $400,000. A sight draft for $38,000.
(Continued on Page Three)
ence is looked for.
While immediate interest centers
n-ilurally in the situation as to the
(Continued on Page Five)
This was covered by the resolution hut he does not lose the franchise. Vou
which said: "We counsel against mil
itancy or any other method which
voiild result in antagonism between
men and women. We hereby declare
we have n sympathy with any plan
to sperate women from men in politi
cal work for any couse.
The. Congressional Union party will
be received in Los Angeles according
lo present plans, by twelve members.
headed by Mrs. Clara Shortridge
Foltz, all acting as individuals.
Mrs. Clara -SneU Wolfe of Austin,
Texas, arrived here ten days ago to
"assist" in making whatever plan:
were contemplated by California club
women for the reception of th suf-fracists.
Mrs Wolfe said the opposition of
clubs here was "simply the refusal of
conservatives to recognize officially
the militant party." She said there
was no obligation on the part of any
organization to receive the delegation
unless it wished to do so.
women move to a non-suffrage state,
and you descend into the order of the
unenfranchised. By that act you are
disfranchised."
She held that the twelve suffrage
states elect 91 to the electoral college,
one sixth of the house of representa
tives and one fifhrth of the senate. It
would be strange, if the states where
women vote cannot help the movement
to "free" all women.
'You must say to the democrats
'pass the amendment now!' It will have
its effect."
Mrs. lilatch said sho was a democrat.
She denied utterly that the Congres
sional Unjon was a republican organ
ization. It chances that the union has
fought the democratic party because
that party is the one which has failed to
pass the Anthony amendment. She im
plied that the union does not support
any candidates, hut that it merely
wages combtit with the obstructionists,
Continued on Page Eight)
Many Murders Are Reported
From the State ofSonora
i
Republican A. P. Leased Wire military governor of Sonora, has a
DOUGLAS. April 21Mall ad-'mlmber of detachments in the field in
vices from Hermosillo received today. I
report that a band of Yaqui Indians northern Snora charged With the
attacked Camou's mill eighteen miles dut' of capturing and exterminating
east of Hermosillo, two weeks ago, outlaws. Where there appears to be
killing nine Mexicans. Two other no doubt as to the guilt of the cap
Mexicans are reported to have been.tive, his execution follows capture
killed ly the Indians at the Sultana very quickly.
mine, 20 miles east of Carbo, a rail- j Hundreds of Chinese are leaving
road station 30 miles north of Her- ; Sonora as the result of the stringent
mosillo. j laws passed against them by Gen-
Arrivals from Sonora, today re-iral Calles and the municipal author
ported that a report had reached ! ities of Sonora. As a result of the
Moetezuma ISO miles south of Agua ; passage of a new sanitary law In
Prieta, that four men had been killed Cananea, the Chinese who formerly
on the road from Lampazos to Moc- i controlled the meat business there.
teztima, last Sunday. A military de- I have been compelled to quit it Mex
tachment was sent to investigate theiicans now operate the butcher shops,
report. Who killed the men and ; When the decrees discriminating
whether they were Mexicans or for
eigners was not known in Moete
zuma at the time of" their departure.
K. ' It. De Hoyos, presidente munic
ipal of Cananea, stated today that three hundred thousand. Since the
nine cattle thieves captured in the issuance of the decree, fully five
vicinity of Cananea had been exe- thousand have migrated to Sinaloa,
cuted summarily there during the last according to Ives G. Lelevier, de facto
two weeks. General P. Elias Calles, jconsul here.
against the Chinese were issued re
cently by General Calles, there were
approximately 35,000 of them in So
nora, out of a total population of
