i
1 IRRAIV
T
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
i
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. IV. No. 1
CINCINNATI, OHIO, APRIL 22, 1916
One Dollar a Year
1
The Republican Troubles
The Rank and File Are In a Condition of Unrest Bordering Upon
Open Rebellion. The Lack of Leadership, the Civil Service Law,
the Discriminations of Friedlander, and the Fact That Their Ex
ecutive Committee Are Fighting the Working Classes In the Interest
of Big Business, Are the Chief Causes. The Re - Nomination of
Persecutor Campbell Is a Challenge to Every Man With a Union
Card In Cincinnati.
When Henry 'J'. Hunt was defeated
for re-election, his first remark was
"that he had been defeated by his own
party because they wanted a more lib
era! policy."
It was upon that principle that the'
Republicans elected Spiegel, but when
he did not meet their expectations and
the rank and file refused to support him
again, the same story was told in the
interest of Puchta, but this time the
leaders promised to make good.
The same men who advised Hunt
when he was Mayor, and who named
Spiegel and Puchta, are the same men
who have control of the Republican
party today. ,
Next Tuesday's election will demon
strate the dissatisfaction of the rank
and file of the party, when one of them,
a member of the Executive Committee,
will run behind the ticket.
The men who went out and secured
the vote have been pushed aside. If an
ordinary precinct worker wants nnv-
thing today he does not know where
to go. Jf lie starts at one place he is
. JL-" tomi'm iiv ni'r iiu" - "it.:
"MfiTfiWaHy-itwnTf
Men "like ;Vilr( Daly 'and Leitnann,
who led the 'municipal ticket last fall,
have been 'entirely ignored. It is. doubt
ful if either' of these gentlemen could
get a fap"r.if'r6m Director Friedlander;
in fact, sbtne of them have tried it once
and. were refused..
Politics should make strange bed fel
lows, but whcn'it is, absolutely control
let) by the capitalistic end of the game,
it becomes unfair to all of those who
arc employed by others.
A few weeks' ago the Executive Com
mittee of the Republican party stated
that they intended to ask the Chamber
of Commerce and the Business Men's
Club to suggest the candidates for the
Jt-gislature. This feeler brought out a
storm of protests from the rank and
file and Ilynicka's office was swarmed
with ward leaders who desired to get
Cnllln T I (tilt "in til ii piiliinnt 1)t liiii rrt
iiave changed, as the following article
from the Enquirer of last Tuesday will
show:
"Only routine business was transacted
at the meeting of the Republican Ex
ecutive Committee yesterday. After the
primaries the committee will consider
the candidates for county offices and
probably recommend those whom it re
gards as the best for the various posi
tions to be filled."
What is the matter with the present
members of the legislature, they ought
to be acceptable to the big interests, with
the exception of Pink, Harding, Ott,
and Federman, as all the others voted
for everything that labor opposed and
agoinst everything that labor proposed,
and.' the only possible suggestion that the
CI amber of Commerce or the Business
Men's Club could make would be to do
away with the above four genetlcmcn.
While we are on this subject it would
be well to suggest that the present lead-
crlcss Republican party should select j
sonio tipw mnclidntps n tnkn tin- nlnen
of those who opposed labor, as organized
labor has been holding secret meetings
on this very subject. John A. Vol!, of
Zancsvillc, president of the Ohio State
Federation of Labor, has explained to
committees from ninety unions in this
city, exactly what our bright young
representatives did for labor at the last
session and he appealed to those present
to go back to their local organizations
and demand that the members throw
politics overboard and vote for men
who will support the-workmen's com
pensation hill-above all else. Only last
Tuesday night he addressed the Central
Labor Council upon that subject, which
was received' with continuous applause.
Organized labor will vote almost sol
idly against the present Republican rep
resentatives, with the exception of Pink,
Ott, Harding and Federman. The others
have been tried and found out.
While the committee is picking out
new members for the legislature, they
can go a little further and name a
county prosecutor to take the place of
Prosecutor Campbell, as he is going to
have some light.
lie will have to explain bis saloon
speech, the actions of his office in the
R. G. Gocddcl case, and many others,
as well as the strong editorial which his
press agent ran in the Times-Star,
wherein it was claimed "that he had
been threatened with political and per
sonal violence if he prosecuted the
painters.
I f that statement is true, Campbell
lacks courage when he did not put those
who threatened him in jail, and if it
is not true, he lacks courage for not
correcting the Times-Star.
Labor knows that Campbell will get
a big campaign fund from those who
are always fighting labor, but at the
same time labor believes that the plans
it has now on foot will offset his bank
roll.
If these men are renominated there is
a surprise in store for the Republican
I purtv. which Wiiliiv JsiYj'i'jni'iJJizd.i&.i
3TraiToli liunvj -vith corporation inter'-1
cms. iMHinnu coum explain inc condi
tions better than, to (piote what Henry
T. limit said of national preparedness.
Mr, Hunt said: "The increasing tend
ency to regard government merely is
an agency to promote class interests
seems worthy of the gravest concern,"
T h,e renomination of Prosecutor
Campbell is in line with that theory and
a challenge to every man who owns a i
union card.
The rank and file of the Renubl can
party know these facts, which; with the
civil service law, the discriminations ot
Friedlander anil the fact that the party
has no leader, has created a condition
of unrest bordering upon open rebellion
among those who get out the vote, for
the simple reason that after they win
an election, they are forced to turn
the control of the city over to a com
mittee who are fighting the working
t:'-'s and whom they can not approach
I w"hollt a )ass from tllc ' racUnn Conl"
P:ln-
AGREEMENT
Signed By Plumbers Clot's Into Kll'ect
May- 1, mill Provides For Shorter
Hours mid More Pay.
The Cincinnati Master Plumbers' As
sociation and Journeymen Plumbers. Lo
cal Union No. .VJ last Friday at the
Hotel Savoy, entered into a new three
year working agreement to go into effect
May J, when the present contract ex
pires. Under the new agreement the present
wage scale of $.i a day will prevail until
July 1, 101(1, when the men will be
granted, an increase of 25 cents a day,
to remain in force throughout the life
of the contract.
Another change from the present
, agreement is in the Itotirs of work. The
i men will cease work on Saturdays at
11 ;;t() o clock instead of 12, thus re
ducing their hours from -14 JJ hours a
week to 44.
The Master Plumbers' committee was
composed of Thomas J. Dyer, chairman;
Ray J. Hillenbrand, Andrew J. Murphy,
John J. Vogelpohl, president of the State
"Master Plumbers' Association; Thomas
Harlowe and John G. Fern, president of
the Cincinnati Master Plumbers' Asso
ciation. The committee representing the union
consisted of Frank P. Twecdle, president
of Local .TJ and of the Ohio State As
sociation of the United Association of
Journeymen Plumbers: Thomas Ander
son, business agent; Charles Haley, Pat
rick J (organ and John Jacobs. Mr.
Tweedle acted as chairman of the union's
committee.
The Master Plumbers' Association is
composed of 115 members. The union
has a membership of nearly 230.
ADOLPH KUMMER
Kli'ctrri President of llrewei
Local Xo. 12,
s
Adolpli Kummer was unanimously
elected president of Brewers, Local 12.
This was but a fair reward for the
work that Kummer has done for or
ganized labor.
For years he was the president of the
Central Labor Council, and it was under
Anoi.ru Kummer.
his administration that the central body
made its greatest and most progressive
i strides. .o president netore or since
'sunum-i 11 is accoiupiis.ied as u men ior
organized labor as Kummer did when
he led the central body.
' Kummer has taken a prominent part
in all the wet campaigns throughout
the coitntry and his superiors in liis.own
organization are jealous of the success
attained by him.
Brother Kununer has always been fair
with the Building Trades and has been
the means of settling several disputes.
Kuniincr's services are always at the
call of the Building Trades.
The other officers elected were : Wil
liam Dupps, vice-president ; George Ber
gold, recording secretary; John Ernst
berger, treasurer ; Conrad Rebman, John
Toepfer, and Louis Kemper, Jr., trus
tees, and Charles Schriefer, Paul Weh
ling and George Banshaf, auditing com
mittee. BUILDING SUB-CONTRACTS
Factory Addition to plant on Ileek
uian street. Owner, the Lunkenheimer
Co. : architects', Bert L. Baldwin & Co.,
Perin Building, Cincinnati, 0. Contract
for concrete piles awarded to the Cran
ford Construction Co.
Store and Flat Building A brick
store and fiat building, 30xT0 feet, to
be erected on Ft. Thomas avenue, Ken
tucky Highlands. Owner, M. R. DcPau;
architects, Weber, Werner & Adkins,
Mercantile Library Building, Cincinnati,
0. Contracts awarded as follows : Brick
work, Win. Priggc, of Dayton, Ky. ;
carpenter work, Joseph Beiting, New
port, Ky. ;' foundation, cement and con
crete work, J. J. Croxson, Ft. Thomas,
Ky. ; cut stone, the David Hummel
Building Co. ; iron and steel work, the
Covington Iron Works; rooling auu
sheet metal work, C. F. Rasch's Sons.
Business Building A metal-clad struc
ture, to be built on the southwest cor
ner of Gilbert and Lincoln avenues,
Walnut Hills. Owner, the Moore Oil
Co.; architects, Samuel Hannaford &
Sons, Hulbert Block, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Contracts have been awarded as fol
lows : Brick and cut stone work, the D.
Ilununell Building Co.; carpenter work,
J. 11. Scluuitt ; foundation, concrete and
cement work, Chas. V. Maescher & Co.;
electric wiring, Al Becker & Son ; paint
ing and glazing, Joel Kennedy &- Son;
plumbing, the Win. Attlesey Co.; roof
ing and sheet metal work, Edw. Meyer
& Co.
HP Htt M
Here's a
City Firemen Are Erecting a Brick Building The Building
Trades Council Will Apply For An Injunction to Stop
the Work. The Council Also Decides That Prismatic
Work Belongs to the Cement Workers and That the
Iron Worker Must Desist From Doing This Work.
The Contract With the Building Construction Employers'
Association Is Printed and Ready For Distribution.
The meeting of the Building Trades
Council was called to order, with Pres
ident Jos. A. Cullen in the chair. The
minutes of the previous meeting were
read and adopted.
A communication from the Central
Labor Council requested that the Build
ing Trades Council appoint nine mem
bers to act on the joint Labor Day com
mittee and that they meet April L'Jth.
This was acceptable, but the date of
the meeting was changed to Saturday,
April 2!) at .'I p. m.
The Chair appointed the following
committee: Cullen, Hock, Fischer, An
derson, Herbert, Sickman, Lane, Nolde,
and Davis.
Business Agent I lock reported that
city firemen are building a brick build
ing at Calhoun and Clifton avenue.
This brought forth a storm of pro
tests. Nearly two years ago Mike Mul
len introduced an ordinance which was
passed by the City Council, forbidding
city firemen or police from doing any
kind of city work except that which
they are paid for.
Some time later the firemen began
doing painters' work all over the city,
and a committee called on Mr. John K,
mill iuuc aim men ii uuicsu -t.jrf.
Holmes explained that the City Coun-
Plans For a Union Laundry
To Be Considered By Central Labor Council Committee
Purpose to Frame Picketing Ordinance Abandoned
Prohibition Communication Destroyed.
Central Labor Council last Tuesday
night decided to act in conjunction with
the Laundry Workers' Union in its lock
out at the Arts and Crafts Laundry, and
if necessary to consider ways and means
for the establishment or a union laundry.
A committee, consisting of E. L. Hitch
ens, Albert Jones, William Prout, Louis I
Distle and Henry Lacey, was appointed
for the purpose.
A report of the Law Committee that
it had decided after thorough investiga
tion, not to frame a draft for a picket
ing ordinance, but to leave the matter
to the Ohio State Federation of Labor,
was concurred in.
In answer to a protest made last week
that posters boosting rapid transit did
not bear the union label, a letter from
the Chamber of Commerce Committee
explained that through a mistake the
label was omitted on the first hundred.
The mistake was rectified and the re
maining posters printed with the label,
the letter stated.
A communication in favor of prohib
ition from E. Keenan, Secretary of the
Workmen's Protective Association, was
.- - "-STy
CAIt MKX AVOID STHIKK.
p
Scranton, Pa. A three-year contract
calling for increased wages has been
signed by the Scranton Street Railway
Company and the Amalgamated Street
Car Men's Union. Wages arc raised
about 11 per cent for motormen
and conductors and 10 per cent for bam
men and trackmen. The latter are to
be provided with rubber boots and rubber
coats for use in rainy weather, and it
is agreed that in case of lay-offs the last
employed shall be the first dismissed.
Scranton, Pa. The fnterurban line op
erated by the Scranton & Uinghamton
Railway Company has signed a four
vear contract with the Amalgamated
Street Car Men's Union. AH trainmen
are to be paid 29 cents an hour for the
first, second and third years, and 30 cents
for the last year of the contract. Regu
lar runs are to be as near nine hours as
possible.
Hot One
cil, when they passed the ordinance for-
mtlumg nremen to do the work, should
have passed another ordinance provid
ing for an appropriation to carry the
first ordinance into effect; in other
words, the City Council put one over
on organized labor.
The work being done by firemen and
police is clearly the work of our con
tractors who pay the taxes that pay rile
police and firemen their salaries.
After considerable discussion, Presi
dent Cullen and Secretary Hock were
instructed to engage an attorney and
test the law both in relation to the
present city ordinance and the State
Civil Service law, by enjoining the fire
men now doing bricklayers' work.
All trades were notified that they
must file a copy of all working agree
ments with the Council at once.
The minutes of the meeting of the
Board of Business Agents was read,
wherein they have decided that the work
of laying prismatic sidewalks belongs to
the cement worker ami that the iron
worker must desist from doing that
work. This action was concurred in by
the Council.
All trades reported business good.
v-otjiKi!fcujouiiieu lo'inecr iiixrvj iwrs
da' night.
, ordered "consigned to the waste bas-
: ket-"
j A Committee on Amusement Resorts.
t reported that the Musicians' and Waii
1 ers' Unions had settled their grievances
with Colonel I. M. Martin, general man
I ager of Chester Park. The waiters have
I signed an agreement with Mr. Martin
I providing for the employment only of
union waiters in the park, and that dis
putes shall go to a Board of Arbitration,
the men to continue working. It de
veloped in the committee's report that
every union affected, with the exception
of the butcher workmen's organization,
had come to an agreement with Mr.
Martin. The committee will make a fin
al report next week.
In an address John A. Voll, Zancsville,
Ohio, President of the Ohio State Fed
eration of Labor, said he was pleased
with the position Council took with
reference to the proposed picketing or
dinance. .'He said there was no justi
fication for the ordinance, as every man
already had been granted the right to
speak peacefully, to his fellowmen. Mr,
Voll made a pl'ia for organization.
f
JKWKIillY WOKKKIIS WINNING.
New York. Several members of the
Jewcler$' Manufacturing Association
have signed agreements with emplojes,
who have been on strike for over twg
months. The contracts provide" for 'an ,
eight-hour- day, extra pay for oyci$Wy
and increased wages. The workersJre-'"
conceded the right to select sliop chair
men. Hours are reduced fronr 'fifty
three to forty-seven per week with -no
wnirt reductions.
1 At a recent meeting of the Jewelers'
Manufacturing Association the members
pledged themselves to resist the demands .
of their employes. In a public state
ment the spokesman for the Association
laughed at the idea of these workers
electing shop chairmen. The jewelers
insisted on the right to run tneir own
business," said this employer, who also
declared that "most of these employs
are now working under the eight-hour
system, but their officers don't know it.
TIip frikprs arp. wfnninir. desnite this
clumsy attempt to create a hostile public
opinion.
i
I?
I
ii
v.
:
"7
),
nn
y
T 1
y
'if
I
'Av..:..,
L
