o
Vhon Is a Postofflco Not a Postofflce? When It Becomes a Papists1 Office for Purposes of Ccnsorshlp-Sco Pago 4
31
3LET US BELIEVE that the whole of truth can never do harm to the whole of vjrtueand
remember that in order to get the whole of truth, you must allow every man, right or wrong,
freely to utter his conscience, and protect him in so doing. Entire unshackled freedom for
every man's life, ho matter what his doctrine the safety of free discussion, no matter how wide
its range. The community which dares not protect its humblest and most hated member in
free utterance of his opinions, no matter how false or hateful, is only a gang of slaves.
This It Numbtr 261
5 , j '." TV TSv
g ww, Ml aawt T7 An12,llt
PAPA
A Thrilling Story
Papal
Dr. Leydcn Wished to Raise the Question, "Should Public
Funds be Given to Sectarian Schools?" The Products
off tho Parochial Schools Have Eloquently Answered
His Question. Shall Their Answer Stand?
On the morning of April 4th. the citizen oflto
Itofton. Mm., rued in amazement on arreat acare
headline on the first page of every daily,
The iw. iwWj MiwMi imi m Mmi I
BIO RIOT RAGES IN HAVERHILL.
MANY B BATES; MILITIA IS OVt.
City Ball Stormed by Angry Slob uhUe
Thomas E. Leyden, "Ex-Prieet," Hides in Aider,
mania Chamber Resentment at Anti-Catkolic
SI $ ting Starts Trouble Mayor Forbids Sleeting,
but Crowd Cries for Yengeanca House $ of CM
tens Art Stoned.
Window of Buildings Broktn bf Stones
Thrown bf Infuriated Sltn.
Minister Among Those Wo Are Assaulted ly
tke Mad Band of Rioters.
TU !! OUk tsla See stary kl nllli eo Mlmi
10,000 IN WILD BAVERHILL RIOT.
Militia Called out to Suppress Slob Tkat Gets
Beyond Police Trouble Begins at Leyden Sleet
ing. City Ilall and Police Station Allacled uith
Missiles Torn From Streets.
National Club is Wrecked end Officer and
Cuuan Are Brutally Beaten.
Tie bWm Jewmel toes Che sots hi this fuhleai
MAYOR CALLS OVT MILITIA TO FIGUT
HAVERHILL MOB.
Crowd Attacks City Hall. Rings False Fire
Alarms and Overpowers Police.
Anti-Catholic Lecture Cause of tke Trouble.
Private Residences And Hotels Also Objects of
ike Crowd's Hostility.
The BtemlTs hwilans iu e foOewat
TROOPS ARE CALLED OUT FOR HAV
ERHILL RIOT.
AntCaOiolic Orator Stirs Mob of 8000 to
Frensy.
Dr. Thomas E. Leyden, "The American Lu
ther of tke New Reformation,'' Endeavors to Hold
Meeting at City Hall Hundreds of Panes of
Glass Broken Slots Fired False' Alarms Kept
Firemen Dashing About Police Helpless
Mayor CVJ Out Co. F.
In these bold headlines the press of the city,
where stands the cradl of liberty, epitomized the
latest Roman Catholic outrage in the nation-wide
eystematio war which Knight of Columbus and
other "propa of the hierarchy" are waging on the
organic law of our land.
It ia a fact worthy of notice that thia example
of criminal lawlessness- follows an exactly similar
exhibition of Roman Catholic defiance of the con
stitution, the law of the state, and the life and
limb of the citizens, which occurred in the city
of Chicago just one month earlier.
A Racord of Crime
Here la a partial record of the erimes committed
in this lawless ergy by the faithful subjects of the
sovereign on the Tiber la their meeeMful effort to
trample underfoot the. constitutional guarantee of
freedom of speech and poblio assembly, as reported
la the Boston and Haverhill papers.
The Bev. Robert Atkinson, paator of the First
Presbyterian church, assaulted ia city halt
Patrolman 3. B. Bridgmnn, eroelly beaten while
attempting to arrest one of the criminals.
Charles Jackson, dragged from the National Club
and terribly beaten.
Corporal Thomas Payee, wounded by a piece of
plate glass thrown by the rioters.
A patriot youth, named Chase, shamefully beaten
and another young man who was chased by the mob
and overtaken on Heat street, beaten Into almost an
consciousness. Edward McDonald, murderously assaulted by the
sob.
The City Hall Folios Station windows smashed,
doors broken down and other damage inflicted epos
public property.
The National dub room wrecked and furniture
thrown to the streets.
A number of haHa of patriotic cfcThs and societies
visited, and wanton destruction inflicted oa property.
The Academy of Katie Building in which the A. O.
U. M. hall is located, suffered the greatest damage.
The private homes of certain Proteeteat and pa
triotic eitisens wantonly attacked, the windows being
smashed, and other destruction of property inflicted,
while the anprotected women aad children ia these
home renoed Americas wives aad daughters were
terrorised by this twentieth century exhibition of
repetition ef Soman CathoUe history ia the papacy's
nadying war an liberal government and the Just
rights ef the people, s
A. Klfat of Terror
During the night, pandemonium reigned in
Haverhill, as lawless thousands made the long
hours hideous in giving this impressive illustra
tion of the result of "Roman Catholic religious
training."
From time to time amid the incessant din, oc
casioned by the crashing of windows, the breaking-
down of doors, the ringing' of fire alarms,
the wrecking of buildings and the criminal as
saults upon peace I ul cituene ana o&cere oZ ue
law, rose the shrill cry, ""We want Leyden, we
win tiU bimP "Why dont jov give him over
ULE M HAVERHI
of the Latest Exhibition of Criminal Lawlessness and Monocracy in the
Campaign to Make America Dominantly Roman Catholic
us. we'll take care of him" and other exclaim-
atiooa which vrored how well Mrockial schools
had taught thes subjects of the pops to hate our
constitutional proruion for public speech and as
sembly.
The, Etorj of tha Crime
Here U an outline stonr of this latest exhibi
tion of Roman Catholic disloyalty to our con
stitution. Rev. Thomas E. Leyden, a Protestant minister
and a well known Patriotic lecturer, was invited
to deliver some addresses dealing with tho very
tital question, "Should Uie tat appropriate pub
lic funds for sectarian schools f This is a ques
tion which the Roman Catholic hierarchy in Mas
sachusetts wishes placed on the Index Prohib
itorum. Neither press nor public speakers must
discuss this question from the democratic view
point if Rome can prevent it.
Mayor Bartlctt, of Haverhill, refused to grant
the permit for the use of the city hal! for the
lecture.
This called forth a strong protest from tho
Protestant Ministers Association on the ground
that it violated the constitutional right of free
speech.
The municipal council took up the question,
and, after full discussion, gave the necessary per
mission.
On Sunday, April 3rd, the lecturer appeared
to exercise his constitutional rights, fortified by
the permission given by the city of Haverhill.
On the platform were Rer. J. Franklin Babb,
pastor of the Union Congregational church, and
Dr. Herbert E. Wales, the chairman of the day.
Lawlessness was in evidence from almost the
start, the singing of "Sweet Adeline," hooting,
coughing, shouting became more and more
marked until finally the meeting was broken up
by the rioters. Even during the prayer by the
Congregational clergyman, the Roman hoodlums
testified to their respect for God by noisy demon
strations. Dr. Leyden requested the audience to
ing America, something which doubtless gave
ofTense to the subjects of the pope as from thence
on the determined effort to break up tlie meet
ing showed that the rioters present hsd no fear
of the guardiaus of law and order. Here are a
few words taken down during Dr. Leydcn's at
tempt to speak by a reporter for the Boston
Journal.
Friend, it remains for you this afteraoon, who op
pose me, to prove whether you believe in American lib
erty or sot. If I am not telling you the truth there U
enough law beneath th. Htara and t tripes to pet Justine
under it. Because you crash the speaker 'a voice, you will
do bo harm to the speaker, but yon will do harm to try
to crush liberty, in the city hall of Harerhill, thia after
noon. It is bo one but a coward who would Intuit a
maa in the position I am in. If the police of Haverhill
do not keep order (noiae and shouting drowns voice of
speaker) 1 will appeal to the governor (tumult and die
order). "if I do not tell yon the truth you have recourse
to law, hut one of our bulwarks is free spoerh, the rltht
of an American to express his opinion, and when yoa
deny that right (voice of speaker drowned by noise) yon
are not Insulting me, but Almighty God, end Amtrtca
end tke Contention.
Soon the noise became so great that only a
few words of the speaker, such as "if the police
of Haverhill," could be heard by the reporter,
above the din. Someone in the audience shouted
"who's your undertakert"
An attempt to deliver a prayer was greeted by
cries and hisses, and Dr. Babb was called on to
dismiss the meeting. He said, "As an American
citizen, I never was so ashamed in my life.' I
was never o ashamed of a police force. I want
to tell yoa men who have broken up this meeting
that you have done more to help Dr. Leyden, than
if you had worked for fifty years, (noise and con
fusion.) The meeting was thus broken up by the law
less enemies of free speech. Intolersnt Rome had
triumphed on the soil of Massachusetts, the sacred
right guaranteed by the constitution had been
trampled underfoot. The city of Haverhill that
had permitted the meeting had been flouted by
the enemies of law and order, a stigma had been
placed on the name of Massachusetts
The Gatherinf Storm
The exhibition of shameful inefficiency on the
part of the city authorities and the police depart
ment emboldened the criminals and they pre
pared for Monday night, when they proposed to
deal a crushing blow to the federal constitution's
guartntee of freedom of speech and assembly,
and to show just how men echo have received Ro
man Cttkolie training and education' in tke
parochial schools regard our federal constitution,
tke laws of tke state and the sanctity of the life
and the prtptrty of those who art brats enough
to defend tke free democracy of Jefferson and tke
other great founders of this republic
Ia th old day, Boxnt ttctftt tad practiced
Stanzas for the Hour
Wf iOM CIEZKLEAr wifrmrm
Do la nsverklU, Mwe. Dm. it. eT.
Lift again the stately emblem oa the Bay State 'a
rusted shield.
Give to Northers winds the Pine Tree oa our banner 'a
tattered field.
Soas of men who eat ia council with their Bible.
round the board,
Answering England 'a royal missive with a firm,
"Thus fceith the Lord!"
Bise agaia for home and freedom! et the battle
ia array t
What the fathers did of old time we their sons must
do today.
O my God! for that free spirit, which ef old ia
Boston town
Smote the Province Moose with terror, struck the crest
of Andros dova!
For another strong-voiced Adams la the city's streets
to cry,
"Up for Ood and Massachusetts! Set your feet on
Mammons lie!
Where's the Man for MamechuneUaf-Where's the
voice to speek her freef
Where's the hand to light up bonfires from her
mountains to the seat
Beats her Pilgrim pulse no longer t Kits she dumb
In her despair t
Has she none to break the silence t-list she none to
do and daref
0 my Ood! for one right worthy to lift up her rusted
ahleld,
Aad to plant affeta the Pine-Tree In her banner's
Uttered field I
the shameful teachings that heretics should be
despoiled of their property. The Roman Cath
olic mob of Haverhill who murderously assaulted
and brutally beat a number of Protestant citizens,
and who attacked the quiet homes of Alderman
Hoyt, Dr. Wales and ethers, crashing windows,
destroying property a'id terrifying almo.t into
hysteria the helpless w.men and" children in those
homes, showed in a startling manner, that Rome
in America today, kas not traveled very far from
the Rome of tke Inquisition.
Monday Night at City Hall
Dr. Lryden is an elderly man, but he has
the courage of an old crusader.
He waa billed to rak on Monday niht, the
constitution had guaranteed him the right, and
the city of Haverhill ,had granted him her icr-
mission.
No one but the subjects of a foreign sover
eign, would dare to q-iestion that right, WIIKN
TO QUESTION WOULD BE TO ADMIT
DISLOYALTY TO THE FEDERAL CONSTI
TUTION AND ITS EMBLEM.
But there were tho'.e who knew how for years
Rome has been poisoning the wells of free gov
ernment in our midst, and foreseeing exactly
what did happen, they counseled weak surrender
beforo tho lawless traitors to the constitutional
guarantees.
Not ho, Dr. Leyden, he stood for a free
man's rights. He was loath to believe that the
constitution and the fag of free America would
be defied and insulted even by thote who one
their allegiance to the foreign eovereign on tke
Tiber.
The police, after ISO people had entered the
hall, locked the doors.
Dr. Leyden was urged to cancel his lecture,
by Alderman Hoyt, but refused. In the meantime
a great crowd hsd assembled in the streets, and a
diversion was created inside the hall when a brii k
crashed through the windows and almost struck
Mrs. Grace II. Oatman, a former member of the
school committee.
Outside the hall the mob grew more and more
menacing. Strident voices and sinister threat?
rose above the general din. The mob prepared
to rush the door; the police threatened to shoot
if the attempt was made. The lights in the
building flashed on and off; someone was tam
pering with the switches. The women became
Kinic stricken and fled to a room below. Finally
r. Lpyden appeared, pale but cool and brave.
He commeuced to speak and instantly the uproar
began, jeers hoots and singing drowned his
voice. Rev. Robert Atkinson, who was in the
audience, rose to protest and was instantly rough
housed by the mob, who attempted to rush him
down the stairs; police rescued him.
Seeing the titter hopelessness of attempting
to cope with the situation, Dr. Leyden left the
Slatform just as the rioters crashed in a glass
oor that opened onto one of the fire escapes, and
one hundred of Rome's servitors rnshed in shriek
ing, "we want Leyden ! By that time stone and
sticks were raining through windows and the
crash of glasa throujout the building blended
with the sinister cry f the rioters and the shout
ing cf the police.
Again Roman Catholics had trampled over
the federal constitution and defied the laws of
the commonwealth of Massachusetts.
' Outeldt' the City Hall
Outside the hall ) thing went from bad to
worse,, .That thia defiaac of law and order was
The Speaker Wished to Prove
Bigotry. Intolerance and Defiance of Constitutional
Liberty. The Knights of Columbus and Other Night
Riders for Rome Answered the Question at Haverhill.
DO tnnriflif fillt hfYmlf Maa 1mvtw aVntrn l.e Ka
fact that Haverhill furnished only a part of 'the
iaifNS rioters, trom all direction tame tlie
Night Riders for the Pope
Boston. Lawrence, Lowell, Neaburyport and
Portsmouth, yielded their quota. Fnt-doiu ws
to receive a iruxlung blow, so from eight to ten
thousand subjects of the sovereign on the Tiber
SHsembled To SHOW AMERICA THE DIF
FERENCE HKTWKEV THE PAPAL THE-,
ORY OF (JOVERNMENT AND THE DE
MOCRACY OF OUR FEDERAL CONSTITU
TION. THEY SUCCEEDED!
The mob of Monday night was not content with
forcibly breaking up the meeting and attempting
the life of the sjesker. It pnx-eedfd to wreak
its vengeance on public projerty.
Had not the city of Haverhill ilarcd to permit
an American citizen to exercise his constitutional
right to criticize Rome and intlitute a compari
son lelnren her Hirorhuil hoo' ami the free
fchooh of the republic? For thin offense were
not the subjects of tho pope, fully justified In
maihing window, breaking doors and com
mitting other depredation on the citv hall snd
jail? And since they could not find the speaker,
to do personal violence to liitu, they proceeded
forthwith to brutally beat and murderously as
sault a number of law abiding citizens whose only
offense was their loyalty to the conttituiion of
this nation.
. . Next, these upholders of the ROMAN CATH
OLIC IIRAND OK 0001) rlTIZENSHIP,
LOYALTY AND PATRIOTISM, proceeded to
vmit and wreck various patriotic club rooms, then
they remembered that Alderman Hoyt, commis
sioner of public Mifety, and Dr. Wales had dis
played an offensive interest in upholding the con
stitutional right of treedotn of sxwli WHICH
ILL ACCORDED WITH THE THEORY AND
PRACTICE OF THE CHURCH OK THE IN
DEX AND THE INQUISITION, so they pro
ceeded to break all the windows in their homes.
Dr. Wales' piazza was wrecked and the windows
of his neighbors' houses were smashed in on every
hand. Defenseless women and children were
frightened into almoct hysteria. I
Not Local or Sporadic
The ITavcihill mob was but one example of a
nation-wide campaign of criminal lawlessness
snd but one phase of a many sided war which the
Roman Catholic hierarchy and its props, the
Knights of Columbus, the American Federation
of Catholic Societies, the Hilicrnians, the Jesuits
and other organizations are waging upon the
organic law of our land.
Furthermore, let no one suppose that this
papal exhibition of intolerance and hatred of lib
erty for those who larc to challenge Rome is
sporadic, or that the tens of thousands of Knights
of Columbus and other props of the hierarchy
who artieipated in the criminal lawlessness were
merely the ignorant and unrepresentative mem
bers of the Roman Catholic communion.
This was merely one example of exhibitions of
intolerance, religious bigotry and hafred of our
constitutional guarantees that aro constantly
finding expression in words and acts of the lead
ers of political Romanism in all branches of gov
ernment. Thus, for example, the Boston Globe of March
27, less than ten days before the Haverhill papal
riot, published a column's report of an address
before the American Federation of Catholic So
cieties by C. S. Sullivan, of the municipal court
of Charlestown. in which "Judge" Sullivan char
acterized the "Masons, Knights of Pythias and
Odd Fellows," as organizations "to be combatted"
as "leading into darkness aud error." He sneered
at the Boy Scouts, declared that Catholics must
repel the energies of the Massachusetta Society
for tho Prevention of Cruelty to Children, and
the Massachusetts Children's Aid Society, be
cause they had dared to oppose the appropriations
of public funds lor sectarian institutions.
The Guardians of Liberty consisting of al
most a million of high minded patriotic citizens
under the leadership of Gen. Nelson A. Miles,
was cited by this Romanist judge as evidence
that biffotrr waa rampant
Mayor James M. Curley, of Boston, is on rec
ord under bis own signature, as declaring that
"the Guardians of Liberty ought not be permitted
to exist on American soil," while within the last
few weeks, Congressmsn James A. Gallivan, of
South Boston. Mass.. has introduced into con
gresa a bill which, if passed, would deal a deadly
blow throush the legislative arm of the national
government to the organic law of our land, by
an attempt to abridge freedom of religious dis
cussion and freedom of the press. Thia militant
representative of tie papal system of government,
LL MASS.
Parochial Schools Fostered
furthermore, in his pending bill would invest an
executive otticer with the autocratic power of a
Russian bureaucrat, by which he could destroy a
great and needed publication without permitting
the accused to have the right of the democratic
met hod of trial by jury.
We cite these case wherein the true spirit of
Rome is so luminously shadowed forth by judge,
mayor and congressman, as well as by the papal
moii, for two reasons: (1) because they showthst
when wo have intolerance and bigotry enthroned
on the bench, in executive seats and in the legis
lative forum of government, it is not strange that
it flames forth among the rank and die whose
religious prejudices have been nourished in
arochiaI schools and further fed in secret oath
bound organizations, (2) because all these in
stances are found iu a single diocese, indeed, the
homes of officials and rioters alike are found for
the most part within twentv miles of the car
dinal's palace in Boston. And what is more, they
are strictly typical of the un-American intolerance
everywhere in evidence where Rome has felt her
self sufficiently strong to exercise the boycott.
Without the Roman Catholic boycott that has
been so mercilessly employed from ocean to ocean
since the hierarchy began ita campaign to make
America dominantly Roman Catholic, the scores
of exhibitions of criminal lawleasncsa that have
disgraced the republic since the Knights of Co
liimbiis wcro organized would never have been
possible.
Insulting Mutacbnittti
The daily papers published the statement that
Chief Marshall Mack declared that if Dr. Leyden
returned to Haverhill to exercise his constitution
al rights he would bo arrested for incKing riot
Dr. licyden does not credit this statement, and
let us hope that it was merely what the enemies
of our constitution desired him to say, for if
Mdssarhusetts has become such a svlsenient ie
pendency of the eovereign of the Tiber that she
u ill penalize a man for eremsng hxs constxtw
tionat right., and allow those guilty of treason to
the coimlitution, crime again it the state and tie
lives and property of her cititens, to go free, then
Masfaihwetis should cease to ask a place in the
sisterhood of states that profess to uphold the
organic law of the nation.
Boston Editorial Comments
Tho Boston press, though treating the riot as
its iinportanco required in the news columns,
mndo for the most nart no adeouate editorial pro
test against these thousands of Roman Catholics
who had added to their disloyalty to our consti
tution, murderous assaults upon life and the
wanton destruction of property. There were
three notable exceptions, that of the Boston
Daily Herald, Evening Transcript and The
Christian Science Daily Monitor; the last named
paper published more than a double column ar
ticle which was very able, dispassionate and
sound from the standpoint of democracy, law
and order. The Herald in an editorial, after
pointing out that the fundamental right of free
speech can not be safely abandoned, said:
"If the Intruding visitor was n weak maa, with no
tnesMjre deserving of intelligent consideration, be woul4
hare done small harm, surely not enough to justify any-'
boJy ia resorting to violcnoe. If on the other hand he had
something important to ear, it ahould have been met
in the free forum or argument, ana not in a wuaow
glare contest Whichever way the speaker be regarded,
therefore, his treatment was unjust and nn-Amenraa
moreover it we a lime oaa to unaenake a nor t ma
tance of the offending speaker's saying emythint, of.
f entire or otherwise.''
The Boston rrwwcripf, probably the ablest
evening paper in America, ana one oi ine most
important dailies from a merary viewpoint in mo
New World, published an editorial that had all
the true ring of the Boston of the elder day, the
Boston of vision, of broad culture and funda
mental democratic idealism. This editorial, En
titled "A Disgrace To MaMachusett,, to clearly,
and luminously states the case for democracy,
that we give it below in fulL
We are not much neeaatoned to Ira eh law la Mssea
rhusetts. The outbreak at Haverhill ia therefore as sur
prising as It is distraeefuL Thomas E. Leyden, the maa
whom 10,000 rioters apparently nought t lynch, had
lieease to speak in the EaverkCl city aalL He had
therefor as mock right to express his sentiments there
as Governor MeCaU has to address the legialature, r
Bishop Lawreaee or Cardinal O Conaell to apeak to con
gregations in their respeetiv cathedrals. Btaadiag on
hie platform therw, Leyden is entitled to the protectioa
of the whole power ef th commonwealth ef Massa
chusetts, aad if that dot not suffice, of th United
Statee of America. What he ia going to aay eota ae
figure. He speaks on his responsibility, and may est
should be held to a rigid eeeoantability for aay libelous,
scurrilous or seditious words that he may nUer. But
hit right to spent and utter ha opinio it ehtohitelw
teertd. In thit etate, rhie w founded upon the prim-
(Continued on Pag S, CoL t)
' M I - - . 1 ' --
