The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 1916
AVI
NUMBER 29
i-k.
LV-
If
K.
F.
WHTEFQRD
0P7E ALTAR DF SELFISH GREED
Because He Would Not Knuckle to Self
Constituted Political Bosses He
Lost His Position
The Schools of St. Joseph Are Now
Launched Upon the Troubled
Sea of Politics
The St. Joseph schools have en
tered the political arena.
They are now the football which
will be kicked about for tbe next
decade.
A . .... ... . - ......
, Ana this win be so from tne fact
that politics has entered Into a body
which should not have even Its sem
blance and which. Is by statute made
non-partisan.
It has always been supposed that
the public schools the bulwark of the
nation were immune from tbe taint
of politics, but they are not In St.
Joseph.
And why? Simple because the pro
ceedings of Thursday by the St. Jo
seph school board show that they are
not and are not by a decided ma
jority. It Is now a self-assured fact that
politics and not education is the mark
aimed at in future by the schools of
St. Joseph and made so by the board
of education.
Professor Whltford Out
Prnf. j. A. Whltford. who for
twelve years has been at the head of
the St. Joseph public schools as
perlntendent, "was forced on Thurs -
day forenoon to tender his resignation
which he did at once or face the
rnolnrltv nf a hnstllp hnnrcl nnd
truckle to them. He ls a gentleman men wn cared not for the youth of
-and the whole state knows that he tne cit' but tor P,ltlcs and Political
is a scholar and he sent that reslg-.ends'
nation in so quick that It made the' The school ln politics shame
heads of those astute "connolseurs of shame shame!
PREACHER TOO COLTISH
Wrote An "Indiscreet" Note to
Young Lady, and It Cost
Him His Job
Montgomery, Mo., April 19. Before
leaving for Kansas City tonight the
Rev. Floyd Rley, pastor of the Metho
dist Episcopal church at Belleflower,
this county, made a statement ln
which he admitted that he wrote an
Indiscreet note to a young woman of
his congregation, 18 years old, of
which he said the contents were
about as follows:
Meet me tonight at 8 o'clock near
your home, about three posts from
'the front gate. It being prayer meet-
-ing night, I will have an excuse to be
away from home and desire to talk
. 5 to you. F. It.
V This note was maneu inrougu me
postoffice at Belleflower several days
ago, and It seems It was taken to the
young woman by two of her girl
friends. As the young woman was
not expecting to receive a private mes
sage, all three girls read it at the
same time.
The contents embarrassed the young
woman, but her companions told of
the occurrence. This led to a meet
ing of the members of the official
board of the church, at which Mr.
Riley said he realized the writing of
the note and the publicity It had1 re
ceived had ruined his usefulness as
pastor, and he tendered his resigna
tion at once. It was promptly ac
cepted. He also wrote his resignation I
as a minister and member of the Mis
sourl conference to the superintendent
of this district, the Rev. Charles
Eugles of Brookfield, which has been
received and. accepted. Mr. Riley
says he will remain a member of the
Methodist church, and will continue
religious work In some field, but not
as a preacher He Insists that his
ryAi..A in urrttlnr. the vniinc vnman
was not an Immoral one.
The ravages of the Missouri river
near Lake Contrary have become so
noticeable to river men that the. pre
diction is freely made that by the
end of the annual June rise the river
will be into the lake, and when this
occurs there will be no .Lake Con
trary, nor will there be. any of the
game fish, either.
pducatlon," who wanted his Bcalp be
cause they had a man of their own
political shade and complexion in view
for the place, swim so badly that they
are still wondering If they have a
case of nightmare, or are recovering
from a sick headache.
No Other Cause For It
And there was no other cause for
It. St. Joseph now has the best
schools In the state of Missouri there
can be no denials of this patent fact financially through the blood and
the man who can successfully show tears of wldows and orphans with all
that this Is not the case does not live, 'of the machinations of interested
and the columns of this paper are greed and avarice there is only one
wide open and full length for him, way tnat thl C0Untry can be dragged
free of charge of any sort, In which lnt0 war and that ls ln the cause of
to demonstrate that they are not 'humanity. That Is the flat that PresI
and this paper will also give him a dent -vilson has Issued and thai Is the
most generous cash honorlum In ad- Dag on wncn Americans alone will
dltlon, If he can make even a half- g0 t0 war-
way ueceni snowing mat tney are not
the best In the state and cannot be
equalled In the whole West.
And with all of this to his credit-
aU ot 1,ls devotion to the uplift of the
chlldren-the coming generation who
SU-jwm """' mmi x-iui. ,vmi-
,ford - thls ab,e and acknowledged
capable Instructor and educator-was
sacrlflced' slmPlv because he was a'
U,:"""-'L " nl""u '" luc "'
CONGRESSIONAL
RACE OPENING
James H. Hull of Platte and
Raleigh Martin Announce, and
More Are Expected
es.
Since the city campaign has been
relegated to the rear, the congres- theVproportion to which we live up quarters formerly occupied by Judge accept its teachings, but gently rea
sional matter has come to the fore to it." declared the president. "But T. B. Allen. He made hundreds of I sons, as did Abraham of old. "Let
and candidates are announcing their we must never fall below that tradi- friends In his campaign, and they are j there be no strife, I pray thee, be
desire to contest with Congressman tlon. The birth of this nation was attesting their friendship by giving (tween me and thee, ... for we be
Charles F. Booher, who now holds that significant because no other nation him their patronage. .brethren." Christian-Science, however,
onice.
Last week Hon. James H. Hull of
Platte county announced his candl -
dacy, and he is now busily at work
in a canvass of tie district.
Tuesday, B. Raleigh Martin of this
city and formerly of Nodaway, an-
nounced that he would contest for the
coveted honor.
Hon. Anderson Craig of Nodaway principles ln which the life of the na- Embree has a Scotch collie. Just ' its little merely to believe on God,
some time ago announced his candl- tlon Itself Is rooted and grounded. 5 years old. which Is able to tell jfor human belief Is subject to change,
dacy, and it is said that William E.l "America will have forgotten her a Republican from a Democrat. while spiritual understanding abideth
Spratt of this city will shortly throw traditions whenever upon any occa- Tne dog's name Is Jerry. When- forever,
his hat Into the ring. Igion she fights merely for self under eer Jerry tries to drive away a ' The Prayer of Certainty
Robert I. Young ot this county an- such circumstances as will show that caller at the Embree home It Is I Christian Science therefore demands
nounced his candidacy some time ago, ube has forgotten to fight for all'man- known that the man is a Dem- j from those who would accept its mln
and It is said that there will be other kind. And the only excuse that Amer- ocrat. When Jerry makes j istrations that they should so under
candidates. Ilea can ever have for the assertion friends the man is a Republl- stand God and His relationship to His
Congressman Charles F. Booher, the of her physical force is that she as- can- The signs have never been ! creation, and His laws governing this
present representative, Is jtlso a can- serts It In behalf of the Interests 3f known to fall." I relationship, that they should be able
didate for renomlnatlon, but will not humanity. under all circumstances, through this
come home to look after his candl-
dacy. being satisfied that his friends
will appreciate the fact thatjhe is at
the post of duty , where they sent
- -
him to care for their Interests, and
that his future is safe ln their hands,
IN KANSAS
John Sonefeldt, a 6ehoo Board Mem.
ber, Goes to Jail for Selling
Liquor to Children
The Topeka Capital, owned by
Gov. Arthur Capper, which told re
cently of appalling conditions In Kan
sas, resulting In young girls being
ruined aid babies allowed to die
through neglect of their parents, pub
lishes the ensuing tale of more doings
In prohibition Kansas. It says:
John Sonefeldt. a member of the
Leavenworth school board and presi
dent of the Leavenworth hranch of
the Miners' union, pleaded, guilty In
the federal ourt here to a charge of
(Continued on Page Eight)
HUMANITY IS ONLY
E
"America" Won't Fight Merely
.......
ior iiersen," rrcsiaent
Tells D. A. R.
THE NATION FORMED
TO SERVE MANKIND
And He Declares That If We Fall
Away From the Traditions of the
Fathers of This Great Republic We
Have Dishonored Them, Have
Changed Our Character and Have
Lost the Old Impulse and Become
Unconscious of the Principles In
Which the Life of the Nation Is
Rooted and Grounded.
With all of the talk of war with
all of the war that is going on about
the 'United States with all of the
blood that Is being spilled with all of
the treachery and trickery of those
un-Amerlcans who are trying to pro-
, mote war in order that they may profit
Thls -aa made strikingly manifest
-wnen President Wilson on "Monday
addressed the Daughters of the Am'
erican Revolution In convention as
sembled at Washington, and where he
( declared that the only excuse of the
CAIJS
WAR
uim olal iu :. .ikul ouu.u uc
In the cause of humanity. His words
were enthusiastically applauded by
delegates from all parts of the coun-
."J.
Will Have Forgotten Traditions
"America will have forgotten her
traditions," said the president, "If she
fights merely for herself." He added
that the United States must not fight
under conditions as would show it had
forgotten traditions. When America
ceases to be unselfish, he said, It will
,cease to be Amerlca-
The president declared the nation
I was formed for the purpose of serv
Ing the rest of mankind as mucn as
Itself, and to afford aTpum to all men.
Those traditions, he added, must be
continued.
"Tradition is a handsome thing ln
was ever oorn in tne worm wnn me
purpose of serving mankind.
l Will Have Dishonored Them
"if we fall away from the tradition
'0f the fathers we have 'dishonored
them. If we forget the tradition of
the fathers, we have changed our char-
acter; we have lost an old impulse;
Iwe hav become unconscious nf -th
"What a snlendld thlnir It a to hav
so iniriiinr ., tm.HHnn , rwitnn nf
...c-.. . ,-, ........ aw.. , -.. .. w.. w
unselfishness. When America ceases
to be unselfish she will cease to be
Anri whpn Rh fnr.t. , r.
dltions of devotion to human rights In
general which gave spirit and Ira-
pulse to her founders, she will Jiave
lost her title deeds to her own nation-
allty."
St. Joseph bore a charmed 'existence
early this week when it came to
escaping disastrous rains. Wednesday,
t-tcit Durrt.a tlia rtvai In L'anta. n
. . . , j ....
severe rainstorm set in, and before It
,.aa - 4-.i ,.n i 1 1 .u .1 1
ended a terrific ball mingled with the
downpour. Not a hailstone fell In
Buchanan county or St. Joseph, cs the
storm passed by the community.
Tonight the Missouri Glee Clubvill
be heard at the auditorium of the
Robidoux school at Tenth and Ed
roond streets, held under the aus-
pices of the local Central high ecbool
social societies. ' . ,
out for Circuit judge '
Well-Known Attorney Will Make An
Active Canvass for This
, Honorable Position
Lawyer James C. Growney on Sat-i
urday, last, filed with the secretary.
f state al Jf"on fity his deciara-
ltlon as R candidate for the office of
Judge of the circuit court, Division
No. 3, on the Democratic ticket.
This new division of the circuit
court of Buchanan county was creat
ed by the last general assembly, when
by legislative enactment the criminal
court was abolished, effective Jan. 1,
1917. For this nomination at the
August primary election, Mr. Grow-!
ney will make an active campaign, be-
JAMES C. GROWNEY
lievjng that the office of judge of this
new division belongs to no one man
more than to another, but that the
position is one belonging to the citl-
zens of Buchanan county, and for
them at the August primary to deter-
mlne who tne Democratic nominee
sna be
Mr. Growney. In seeking this nomi-
nation, comes as a man well qualified that one and only God "whom to know
for the ofTlce. He holds the degree aright Is Life eternal." (Science and
of LL. B. (Bachelor of Laws) from Health, Pref., n. vii.). The, message
the law department of the University 'of Christian Science Is always lov
of .Missouri. His long experience as In?, compassionate, and tolerant, and
an advocate at the bar, In the" capa- recognizes clearly the right of every
city of a trial lawyer, makes him j man to decide what ls best for his
peculiarly qualified for a position i own health and happiness, both in
upon tbe bench In the Sixth Judicial I the matter of medicine and also of
circuit of Missouri. religion. The teachings of Christian
Science are simple and direct, and
BARNEY REILLY NOW I are easily understood by any unbiased
PRACTICING LAW j thinker: even children perceive and
Barney E. Reilly. who made the race ' use them with the utmost ease. Be-
for the majoralty on the Democratic
. ticket nnd who in defeat was as gra -
I cious as he woul(1 naVH been ,n .,c.
tory. has resumed tne actlve practice
0f aw and s now located in Suite No.
701 of the nnrhv.Fnrs hnllrtln,- tho
!..
GIVE THE PARTICULARS!
Without Doubt Jerry Is a Yellow
Do0 and Presumably Affec-
tlonate to His Friend
Special to the Gazette.
"Maryvllle, April 15 B. R.
We certainly admire Jerry's In-
telllgence Jerry knows and un-
.....
"""stands his kin-but the story
U Incomplete. Jerry, without a
U0UDt ,s a yellow dog and re-
markably affectionate to his col-
oreu ePwwan friends for a few
oas DeIore an election. Does
Jerry ,lck the bands ot H""
Moosers? Does Jerry get his llv-
Ing by robbing smaller dogs?
Does Jerry show emotion If you
mention meat trust or any trust,
graft, tariff, special Interests,
greed or any other of the lovely
things bis frlendv stand for?
. T ,,,," 1 T
Does Jerry defend his home?
IT f . .
w non ue a uujiii". iu ueieuu, ur is
he just like other dogs, used to
defend the homes of larger dogs?
Come, give us all the particulars.
OREGON, MO.
Henry V. Arrowsmlth, 65 years of
age and well known, died of periton-
Itls Wednesday. Burial took place at
Qulncy, 111.,, his former home.
J. W. DOQRLY DELIVERS NOTABLE
MESSAGE TO ST. JOSEPH PEOPLE
Discussed His Subject Before An Audi
ence That Taxed the Capacity
of the First Church
In Language That
Spoke Entertainingly of the Prayer
of Understanding
Before an audience which filled the commodious First Church of Christ,
Scientist, Sunday afternoon, John W. Doorly, C. S. B., of Leeds, England, mem
ber of the Board of Lectureship of The Mother Church, the First Church of
Christ, Scientist, In Boston, Mass., delivered a notable lecture on "The Praer
of Understanding the Message of Christian Science." The lecturer was Intro
duced in appropriate words, by Mr. A. B. Pickell, first reader of the First
Church. Mr. Pickell said:
"It Is not an unreasonable expectation that all mankind should enjoy
f health, happiness, success and peace. The hope within us leads us onward
and upward in the search for the true system, or system of truth, which would
enable mankind to be superior to all adverse circumstances. Those to whom
Christian Science has come with healing are certain that God Is everpresent
and His help Is available through the understanding of true prayer, for Chris
tian Science has brought Into their present experience more health and happi
ness, a more successful living, a higher and more permanent peace. That
i they might share these blessings with the whole world Is their greatest desire,
and it is with gratitude that this opportunity is offered to learn more of this
subject.
"I am glad to Introduce Mr. John
member of the Board of Lectureship of
of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Mass."
The lecturer said: t
Progress ls recognized to be the law
f God In all things, 3nd Christian
Science has come in obedience to this
law, not to reveal a new God but to
bring to humanity a fuller sense of
Ing essentially Christlike they are unl
' versal and are the message of Truth
knoclinK at tne door of every human
consciousness,
Christian Science neither strives
nnr arciips with thnc irhn nnt
i
1 does declare In no uncertain way that
there ls but one God and one Christ,
and that a correct, scientific, and
demonstrable understanding of the
'one and only God and of the divine
(Christ is essential to the permanent
health, happiness, and salvation of
eery Individual. Christian Science
'also points out definitely that it nrof-
Knowledge, to prove His presence and
power, and His infinite ability to pre-
, serve them intact from eery form of
evil. This result Christian Science
iieacues, ana an cnnstian religions
should readily concede, can only be
accomplished through praer; but as
to what constitutes true prayer there
nre ,nany buman P'nlons.
From time immemorial mankind
has belleed in some kind of God and
has offered some prayer or offering
to such a God, but the motives for
these prayers and the results expect
ed and obtained from them have dif
fered according to a man's belief as
to tbe nature of his God. It has,
however, always been acceded, and
quite rightly, that the..lndlvldual .who
obtained tbe most definite answer to
his prayer was that one who under
stood most certainly and correctly tbe
nature of the one and only God. The
Scriptures are a record of how God
was progressively revealed "with
signs following" to those men of all
ages who understood Him and obeyed
His laws.
All UnderStOOd He
W. Doorly, C. S. B of Leeds, England,
The Mother Church, The First Church
Such men, it is recorded, were not
only able to save themselves through
their prayers, from evil of every kind,
Including disease and even death, but
were consistently able also to help
others; and this ability to prove God's
presence and power has always been
accepted, at least in theory, as a
proof of the correctness or otherwise
ot all religious teaching. Indeed this
necessity for praying aright and un
failingly receiving an answer to such
prayer was made the standard of
Jesus' teachings. He spent a great
part of his short personal ministry
proving beond doubt that his prayer
was with power to cast out evil of
every kind; and for those who accept
his life and teachings as their stand
ard, this should also be the standard
of prayer.
Judged upon this basis, Christian
Science can speak and does speak
with certainty upon the subject of
prayer, for the followers of Christian
Science have received innumerable
and direct answers to their prayers.
Through the correct understanding of
prayer which they have gained from
the teachings of Christian Science, a
vast and ever increasing multitude
have been 'enabled to free themselves
from many phases of sin and -disease,
and In addition have been enabled to
bieak these bonds for their friends
and fellow men. This fact has been
established so certainly, and in so
many cases, that discussion of the
question as to whether Christian Sci
ence heals or not has become quite
unnecessary and superfluous, certainly
among a large proportion of the
public.
The question therefore arises, What
ls the nature of the prayer of Chris
tian Science, and wherein does it dif
fer from the ordinary religious accep
tation of prayer; and primarily, does
it agree with prayer as understood
and practiced by those men of old
wboise perception of true prayer has
based all religious teaching? Also,
does it agree with the prayer of Christ
Jesus the Wayshower' Unfortunately
for mankind, popular religious thought
has frequently considered such prayer
and its results to be a special dispen
sation, although admitting that God,
to whom all prayer Is addressed, and
by whom all prayer Is answered, is
"tbe same, yesterday, and today, and
forever." The result of this belief
has been that the world has failed to
realize fully that true prayer and Its
effects not only were In no way a
breach of law or a special interven
tion, but were In. fact tbe simple, nat
ural and inevitable results of under
standing God and His unchangeable
laws, revealiag the true nature of that
prayer which is always answered. It
was of such prayer that Jesus spoke
when he declared, "Father, ... 1
knew that thou hearest me always."
To Understand God Essential
To pray aright It ls evident that we
must first know God aright, for it
(Continued on Page Three)
Lriv.
I
