TTim TTb A TTh TTu THl 7M A TT TT "7" rmTT "KfT
VOL. XX NO. 33.
BAIUIE, . VERMONT, SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 1916.
PIUCK, ONE CENT.
rm
i
FRENCH SOLID
BEFORE DOUBLE
TEUTON DRIVE
German Infantry, Let Loose
Between " Fort Vaux and
the Meuse After Intense
Bombardment, Failed to
Shake the Remarkable De
fenses Last Night
FRENCH ARTILLERY
WORKED HAVOC
Attackers Used Liquid Fire
in Assault North of Cau
rettes Wood, but There
They Were Also Repulsed,
Says the French Official
Statement
Paris, April 22. An intense bombard
ment of the French front before Verdun
between the M.euse and Fort Vaux was
, followed last night by an attempt on the
part of the German troops to advance.
The war office announcement this after
noon savs that the advance was pre
vented by the artillery fire of the French
which inflicted heavy losses on the Ger
mans. The statement also says that a
German attack north of the Oaurettes
wood, in which liquid fire was used, was
also repulsed.
The official French statement last night
told of the occupation of a crater in the
Argonne. The "statement was as fol
lows: "In the Argonne at ITill 2S5 (Haute
Chevauchee) we have occupied the north
ern brim of a crater made by the explo
sion of a German mine.
"On the left bank of the Meuse, the
enemy has bombarded heavily our new
positions at Le Mort Homme.
"On the right bank of the Meuse the
German artillery has shown intense ac
tivitv from the' Meuse to Fort Vaux.
"In the Woevre. a violent cannonade
has taken, place in the sector between
Chntillon and Ronvaux. There was no
lnfantrv action.
"One of our long-range gunB has shelled
the station of Vigneulles Ics Ifatton
chatel, northeast of St. Mihicl.
"North of Kecieville, our batteries
scattered convoys on the road from La
"Marche to Nonsard.
"On the remainder of the front nothing
of importance has occurred."
succeeded General Liman Von Sanders
in command of the Dardanelles army.
Recent dispatches reported Field Mar
shal Von Der Goltz engaged in the op
erations in Asiatic Turkey. Ilefore the
fall of Krzerum ho wan said to be bot
tled up in that Turkish stronghold with
80,000 Turks.
GERMANS DISPERSED
PERSHING IS
TOLD TO ACT
Ordered to Prepare for Any
Aggressions by Car
ranza Men
When They left Their Trenches Near
St. Eloi.
. London, April 22. The British official
communication last evening was as loi-
lows:
"There has been mining activity near
Firconrt, Kouehez Hulluch and Givenchy. gCQTT IN CONFERENCE
of Germans who left their trenches near
St. Eloi.
"There has been trench and mortar
fighting south of Arras and artillery duels
between Souchez and La Bassee canal
and in the neighborhood of Vpres.'
WITH FUNSTON
GERMANY KEEPS
STRICT SILENCE
Former's Report Should Be
Received in Washing
ton To-night
The Situation in Berlin Is Said to Be
Extremely Grave Sentiment Against
Any Weakening of Position.
San Antonio, Tex., April 22 Secretary
of War Baker should be in receipt of a
report before night from- Major General
Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff of the
Ttrlio Anril 01 via Tendon Anril 22.-
Nothing has vet developed as a result of lUBt a8RI" lno acimimstra
the receipt here of the American note to tion in deciding whether to withdraw the
iermany concerning Germany s subma- American troops from Mexico. or to send
rine warfare. No expression ot opinion mom iuruier into me country.
is obtainable from the foreign office, Generals Scott and Funston conferred
where absolute reticence is maintained, most of the night on the details of con
As far as The Associated Press has ditions on the border and in Mexico, and
been made acouainted with the sentiment the conferences were continued to-day
in higher ouarters. it would be wrong to General Funston has recajved reports
regard the situation as anything but ex- showing the movements of Carranza
tremely grave. The note probably will n me cnairicr, penetrated ny
be answered some time next week, after Pershing, and orders have been sent to
serious consideration has been given the Pershing authorizing him to prepare for
American contention, but there is little any aggressions.
idea that any answer can bo to th
United States army, and Maj.-Gen. Fun
ston, in charge of operations along tho
frontier and in Mexico, personally dis
cussed the problems last night which
have grown out of the punitive cxpedi
tion in pursuit of V ilia.
Gen. Scott arrived from Washington
last night and was met by Gen. Funston
the two going immediately to Gen. run
ston's headquarters at Fort Sam Ilomv
ton.
Gen. Scott professed not to know
whether the American troops were to
be recalled without having captured
Villa.
He was sent here by Secretary of War
Baker to discuss the situation in detail
with Gen. Funston and to make to the
secretary a personal report. Gen. Scott
does not intend going to El Paso or Co
lumbia.
A LEADING BRANDON CITIZEN.
length demanded by the Washington gov
rnment, despite the fact that the gov
ernment desires to maintain good rela
ions with the United States. The senti
ment is asrainst anv further weakening of
iermany s submarine campaign, to say I united Mates Uovernment Is Said to Be
FELIX DIAZ MAY HEAD
NEW REVOLUTION
nothing of an abandonment of it. 1
Neither the note or any reference to it
has been published ill Germany, and there
is no intimation as yet when the note
will be made public. The celebrations of
holv week and of the Eastertide there-
ARTILLERY AND
AIRMEN ACTIVE
IN MACEDONIA
French Aviator Flew Over Sofia and
, Dropped Four Bombs of Large Cali
bre on Zeppelin Shed Two
; Squadrons Bombarded
German Camp.
Paris, April 22. Artillery duels along
tho Macedonian front continued yester
day, the Havas correspondent at Saloniki
telegraphs. There was no activity on the
part of the infantry except for clashes
between patrols. The aviation corps is
very active. A French aeroplane which
flew over Sofia returned unscathed from
its 400-mile trip. It dropped four bombs
of large calibre on a Zepplin shed at
ISofia, Two French aeroplane squadrons
yesterday bombarded the German camp
at Petriteh and another squadron dropped
bombs on German troops concentrating
in the region of Doiran. German fliers
attacked Grassouli but did not damage.
Concerned Over Latest Develop
ments in Mexican Situation.
Washington, D. C., April 22. While
immediate interest centers, naturally, in
fore are proceeding undisturbed by any tho situation as to the troops in Mexico,
knowledge of foreign complications. there were renewed indications about the
The ministers and other officials who stiate department that a wholly different
were enuiieu io n recenco. a ci'iiy i me aspect ot the problem was causing crow
note this morning and were engaged dur- ing concern. That is, the movement sup
ing the day in studying the document. posedly headed by Felix Diaz, nephew of
the former Mexican dictator, for a new
IV A T F QT CTI T.T If V iciuiuuun Bgauun, me oe iscxo govern-
ViLJLi 31. ollAlVrlilN ment. None of the information unon
BY EXCITEMENT w''icl1 ',e u,lcs"ei' rests has been dis-
eral Mexicans in the I'nited States are
Free Selling of War Shares Characterized being closely watched, and it seems pos
sible tliat some of the anti-American
Short Session of Stock Market
German Crisis and Mexico
Affair Caused Flurry.
New York, April 22. To-dav's two-
hour session of the stock market was at-
feeling in Chihuahua states which hag
met the troops pursuing Villa, may be
attributed to this movement.
Tffe Diaz movement, it is said, has the
backing of various elements of Mexicans,
both in Mexico and this country. As
tended bv much excitement and further viewed by tno state department, it is
free selling of war shares and notes of understood, the activities of these per-
companies in Mexico broke from four to sons are the more dangerous because
eight points and the entire list, inelud- they are wealthy, while the de facto gov-
ing investments, was unfavorably affect- ernment is involved in a snarl ot tinan-
ed. The news of the Good Friitav holi- ial complications, which would be hard
Dr. Charles W. Peck Died Yesterday Aft
er Long Illness.
Brandon, April 22. Charles William
Peek, one of Brandon's most highly re
spected citizens, died at his home on
Grove street yesterday, after several
months' illness. Dr. Peck was one of
the most widely known physicians in
Vermont.
He was born in Clarendon February
22, 1841, the son of Lewis and Harriet
Peck. He was educated at Fairfax and
at Barre academy, and was graduated
from the Long Island College hospital,
Brooklyn, N. Y. Jit June, isfll, he came
to Brandon and was married to Marietta
Smith, who died within a few months.
In 18flfl he was united in marriage to
May F. Jackson of this town, who died
in 1895. In 1901 he married Mrs. Helen
K. MoLaod of Fair Haven, 'Mass.
Dr. Perk was the first health officer
of Brandon and held that office until
1914, when he was compelled to resign
on account of ill health. He was an
ex-president of the Vermont State Medi
cal society, having been president of the
society in. I!K)f). He was an ex-president
of the Rutland County Medical society
Ho was a member of the New iork and
New England Association of Railroad
Surgeons. In 1861 he enlisted in the
United States sharpshooters, but was
obliged to return to his borne, being
wounded. He returned to his regiment
just after the Battle of Antietam, but
came home a second time on account
of his wound not healing properly, an
was mustered out of the service. Dr,
Peck was a staunch Republican in noli
tics. He represented Brandon in the
legislature of 1902. He was always ac
tive in all town affairs. He was a mem
ber of St. Paul's lodge of Masons. Be
sides his wife, he is survived by one
brother, S. L. Peck of Ira, and one sister,
Mrs: W. II. Flint of this town.
The funeral will be held at the house
Monday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock and
will be in charge of St. Paul's lodge.
FAILED TO FIND
MISS ARNOLD'S
BODY IN CELLAR
FOLEY AWARDED
..$2,200.32 VERDICT
ON BUILDING JOB
Sealed Verdict Was Returned in Wash
ington County Court To-day in Suit
Brought for Construction of the
Park Theatre in Barre.
Sealing a verdict which was reached
Li. I .... : . 1 i .. i .1.
1 T i. Tl i. T l"ns innv evening niter mrvrtai jiuura ue-
rOllCe Inspector raUrOt Ue- liberation, the jury in Washington conn-
-n , mi , t j l.V court reported at 8:30 o clock this
I11CS iwyvib XUtXl a uuujf rorenoon with a judgment for the plain
iir rt j , i,t i, tiff to recover $2,200.32 in the case of
was TUUJIU ai AU mivi Clarence E. Foley vs. Charles land Mary
, , TT lr , Zanleoni. Foley's claim wag for money
bearCh in a HOUSe OI WeSt duo him from the defendants for eon-
t .t it . ,i struction work on the Park theatre
Point, N. Y., on a Convict s building in Barre.
. . Judge Fred M. Butler and Mrs. Butler
Revelation left on the morning train for their home
in Rutland to pass the week-end, court
to rewume its sessions Tuesday forenoon
at 9 o'clock. Judge Butler is to be en-
A TMPTT WATPR TIT ATM Kp nearing at ivuuanu jionuay
4-lJNbJtl WAlriK JV1A1JN and for that reason the recess was tak-
urci TATd---irTnTT7'T until Tuesday morning.
VVi.D ULOKsJ V LjIXEjUI Judge Butler was of the opinion to
day that the civil jury cases, possibly six
or seven more, will not lie completed
until the middle of May and was inclined
to believe that the term would extend
through the month until the first of
June.
The case scheduled for trfal next week
is Frank C. Phelps vs. Charles Utlev,
FIVE LICENSES
AT303N0.M
V
Unusual Demt 'f tor Store
in the S .ipini
Building
COMPLICATION ALSO
AT 33 GRANITE ST.
There Will Have to Be Five
Transfers in List as
Awarded
GERARD DELIVERS MESSAGE.
day was anything but reassuring from
H all street point of view.
1 he latest development of the German
crisis was viewed witn increased con
cern and reports of proposed cancella
tion of an American concession in Mex
to overcome even in times of complet
peace,
While no definite information was ob
tamable there were indications that
some Washington officmls at least
thought it possible that the Diaz inter
ioo waa responsible for acute weakness I ests were seeking to undermine General
in that quarter of the lift.
WAS CARRYING $400,000.
Amount Was in Securities Recently Stol
en in New York.
Carranr-a among his various commanders
Should clear indication of this become
apparent, the attention of General Car
ranza probably would lie called to the
situation
It was pointed out at the war depart
ment that the portion of Chihuahua
where the pursuit of Villa has been in
progress, has been doubtful territory at
Many of the so-called Carranza
RUSSIAN TROOPS
SENT NORTHWARD
Reinforcements Arriving at Marseilles
After a Long Trip Were Dispatched
to the Western Front To-day.
Lyons, France, April 22. The Russian
troops which arrived at Marseilles Thurs
day for service on the wetern front
passed through here to-day on their way
northward.
Baltimore, Md., April 22. A man, giv
inc the name of Kdward J. Quigley, hav
mg in lus possession all the securities best,
stolen on a ferry boat at New York on Ufcrmons are known to be wavering In
rer. zo, was arresiea nere last evening, their allegiance.
The arrest was a piece of good luck I Since no new revolution could be start
by the postal authorities. Quigley was ed in territory where American troons
wiy v., is...., "n " are vjf rti n"K it i reanieu kb possioie
xxiuis ior raising money oruers. -in mat recent events were the reti U. in
alleged confederate named i.eorge r. part, at leat, of a deliberate effort to
Windall was arretted with him but is create conditions that would compel their
held on a technical charge. withdrawing without irritating the
Quigley fought against arrest and tried Cnited States to a point where intorven
to get a loaded pistol from his pocket, tion and military occupation of northern
Dut was overpowerea ny tne inspectors Mexico might result.
anil a quantity ot wnat is believed to tie
cocaine taken from him. His alleged
confederate submitted to arrest, but de-
A CROSS-CONTINENT CHORUS.
nied that they knew each other although UBi u of Vermont Graduates Had
the inspectors saw them together. .. ...
GERMAN STRATEGIST DEAD.
Baron Kolmar Von Der Goltx Died of
Spotted Fever.
Amsterdam, via lxmlon. April 22.
Baron Kolmar Von ller ;olt., commander-in-chief
of the first " Turkish army,
died Wednesday of sxitted fever at the
headquarters of bis Turkish army, o
crdinp to an official announcement re
reived here from Berlin. lie had lieen
ill ten days.
Field Marshul Von Der C.oltz was re
garded as one of Germany's grcate-t
strategists. lie was 72 years old. He
bad seen extensive military tervke. h;H
ing fought in the Austrian rampaivn nd
on the staff of Prince Frederick l'lmr!e
in the Franco-Pnit-mn wr. In he
was eent to reconstruct the Turki-h
army and remained in Turkey thirteen
j ears.
In Augut, 1014. be appoint. -d
military governor of the wrupi.vi part of
Belgium, but in Xnmitur of the same
yer he was relieved .f this command
and ent to Turkey, !irre he a ap
pointed military eomman lar.t at Con
stantinople, and acting miiii'ter of war.
lie was intrnnif ntal in f 'f nr'nu D.ectron
Tnrki'b defense on t'.e ;!!. p.rt;n
aula and frequently -re.lntej hr.t ihe
al'ifd tie t tt?i!4 !t I abV to f r-e a
-ai'e .f t're IUr-iam iV. He r- "w I
i command h ef of the frt 1 urW-
Vhen told to open his grip Quigley
protested and said he could not be made
to give it up. It contained a large bun
dle with old newspapers for a wrapping.
Inside were found certificates of stock
of the Baltimore k Ohio railroad. tRe
Chicago, Burlington A, Quincy railroad,
New York Citv stock and other securi
ties of aggregate face value of f4iK),000.
A sight draft for ..1H,(Si) drawn on S. B.
Chapm A company of New York, by
Smith, Loekhardt A company of Balti
more, was also found in the satchel at
tached to certificates for Il0 shares of
I'nion Pacific and liK share of North
ern Pacific stock.
Chief Postoflice Inspector .1. C. Koons
"aid he believed that the satchel eon-,
tained all the securitie which bad been
ent from Baltimore in the registered
mail pouches stolen on the New York
ferry boat.
New Yoik. April 22. The roblterv for
j which K.dward .1. Quigley was arrested
I at Baltimore lat night occurred here
Feb. 2fi. when four packages of registered
mail wer removed from an automobile
truck while in transit, on a ferry boat
from the Comniunipaw'. N. .f.. station of
the Central railroad' of New Jersey to
Liberty street. New York. The park
ages, three of whirh were from Washing
ton, I). C ami ope from lultimore, Md.,
ere stolen from mail pouches.
TO DISCUSS DEMANDS.,
Railroads and Employes to Meet in Chi
cago. Cleveland. April 22. Iprerntative
of the railrtia.U in the I nited Mates
Most Unique Experience.
New York, April 22. Alumni of the
University of Vermont gathered in New
York, Chicago and fSan Francisco had the
unique experience last night of joining
in the singing ot the ermont song.
Champlain." The New York alumni
were gathered in Machinery hall, to the
number of 115. There were I. in Chica
go and eight in San Francisco. The cir
cuit was opened through the courtesy of
the New York Telephone company at J
o'clock, and the graduates in the three
places talked, sang and cheered. All pres
ent listened in through receivers at their
tables
Cheers were exchanged and invitation
extended to the next commencement
which marks the 125th anniversary of
the university. New York started sing
ing "Champlain, Chicago took up th
eeond verse, and 'Frisco the third, all
in the same pitch.
The New York alumni beard the waves
of the Pacific. It was an exhibition ex-1
perience. All joined in President Ben
ton's resolution of thanks to the tele
phone company, and to Hon. Theodore N.
Vail, who did much to make the conver
sation possible.
At the business meeting which fol
lowed, the retiring president, .lames H.
Wheeler, and secretary, I .eon R. Whit
eomb. summarized the year's artivity,
and the following officers were elect
ed:
Ireident. A. K. Welch: secretary and
treasurer. L. R. Whitcomb.
Directors for thre vears, Mr Cran-
vill Howard, I. Ellis M. Alger. "Oil;
Reply May Be Delayed to Middle of Next
Week.
Washington, D. C, Apil 22. Ambaesa
dor Gerard at Berlin cabled the state
department yesterday that he had de
ivered the American note on submarine
warfare to the German foreign office at
:30 o clock Thursday. Secretary Lans
ing said later he had not been advised
just when a reply might be forthcom
ing. Other officials, however, indicated
that they expected it by the middle of
next week.
Ambassador Gerard is known to have
entered into a brief conversation with
Foreign Minister Von Jagow, after de
livering the communication. Although
tho contents of a second message., re
ceived latfe yesterday from Mr. Gerard
were closely guarded, it is understood
that the ambassador informed the de
partment that he had been assured im
mediate consideration would be given to
the note.
It became known last night that sev
eral messages have been received from
Ambassador Gerard (filing the oast dav
or two. It was stated authoritatively,
however, that they transmitted only ex
pressions of editorial opinion from Ger
man newspapers. These editorial ex
cerpts were closely examined by officials
in an attempt to gain some understand
ing of the state of German public op
inion.
Dispatches from the ambassador are
looked for momentarily to give definite
information regarding the views of Ger
man officials, the manner in which the
note was received and forecasts of the
action which will be taken bv the Ger
man government in response to the de
mand of the Cnited States that it de
clare and effect an abandonment of the
present submarine warfare.
1 he German embassy is sending many
informative dispatches to Berlin The
majority of these so far have contained
interpretations of public and officiul
opinion, and the ambassador's own views
n the situation. It is known that Count
Von BernstorfT has strongly recommend
ed to his government that it so modify
submarine warfare as to bring it within
what the l nited States regards to be the
law.
New York, April 22. The. " body of
Dorothy Arnold was not found in the
cellar of the house at West Point, where
New York detectives searched yester
day. Police inspector Faurot, who was
in charge of the investigation, announced
to-day that there was no truth in
published stories that Miss Arnold's body
had been found.
Inspector Faurot expressed the opinion
that there was nothing to the story told
by Octave Charles Glennoris, a convict
In the Rhode Island prison, that h
aided in the burial of a young woman
resembling the missing Dorothy Arnold
in a West Toint cellar.
One of the detectives who had con
ducted the search had been quoted a
saying that a body, possibly that of the
Arnold girl, was found under the cement
flooring of an isolated house two miles
south of West Point, but Inspector Fau
rot said: "All we found was an old
four-inch water main.
Successful applicants for liquor ' li
censes of the first, second and fifth
classes were announced by the commis
sioners to-day, the list having been com
pleted at a meeting of the board last
evening. For the reason that the licenses
to be signed by the commissioners and
have not arrived from
sccretarv of state, the
be a long one and may occupy all of next day, when e commissioners meet in
Assistant Judges Dale and Dana heard o'clock, but unless th .nniient .v-ii
an uncontested divorce case this fore- themselves of the opportunity to with
noon, Angle Hottinelli vs. .Paul iSottinel- draw their flnnI
icftt.ionfl for nv ranenn
The petitioner testified that hnforo ;i, i,.
her husband drank heavily all the time to gpt rettd for M , The f
and although capable of earning good by tho commissioners a fortnight ago is
wages at his trade of stonecutter he la- S900 for fiPMf. nH uonnit , " i: -
One of the Searching Party
Had Been Quoted as Say-
mg Allen, tl UUU.V ao Kimball and Lord being the attorneys applicants jointly
covered-Faurot Declares
Convict's Story Was "Ah
solutely False"
and $40 for fifth class licenses.
Here is the list as officially announced
by the licensing board: First class J.
Edward Murphy, 8 Merchant street: An
drew J. Guthrie, 12 Pearl street; John J.
bored only part of the. time and it had
been necessary for her to support her
self. Her husband had also struck her
and at one time had ordered her out of
the house, she said. William Wishart
I 11. 1 ' J fT, , I .
the rKwu ""rT"' 1 J""8e Cayhue, 303 North Main streets Italo
vwn. mc uh iimuci nuvuiciucill,. I 1'ortjl l.inni 4.17 Vnrtli A,f!n . Vl -
nam Kmslie and William Wright, jr., 3.1
Granite street; John B. Casellini, 303
North Main street; William A. Reilly,
diw ortn ALain street.
Second class .John E. Hoban. 303
(iranir st.reof; AlfrsH fiorUK; mt
vnaunoey oiari ranea to iret uui 01
RUNAWAY SPAN
STRUCK CHILD,
RAN OVER MAN yortn Main fitrPet' Fmnk E- Austin, 247
North Main street; Gilbert Phillips, 33
Way When A. W. Boucher Called to
Him and Latter Was Struck
While Trying to Make
Rescue.
Drown, 48 North
ra.Mri. I. .huiiutniv faT " Tn.nector wagon over the form of their
C . I T.. 1)1.. 1.. t. I .1 A
Knurnt sa d he thoiiffht the man to d ' wo BvrucB.
the story in the hope of obtaining a
parole. ', '
Dorothy Arnold was. the daughter of a
wealthy ".Tew York importer and she
disappeared in 1JH0.
COLD EASTER WEEK
IS INDICATED children to get out of the way, Two of
the children heeded the call and ran to
,... . . . . ., safety but the third, the Start boy, failed
There Will Probably Be Local Snows L out of t)e whereupon Bouch-
Over the Northwestern Part of the
Country, Says Weather
Bureau.
North Miin street.
Fifth class K. A.
Main street.
It should be borne in mind that those
applicants whose locations conflict hava
the privilege of transferring. Of the li
censees named, five have applied from
V. - f I 11 1 nnn .
hauneev Start -"ii'iiii oiwk, juj aonn juam
nauncey start, strlptf gnd two mm j, ,
at 33 Granite street. The trknsfers must
meet with the approval of the commis
sioners following the same process as
preceded the granting of licenses. Rul
ings on less pressing matters connected
with the legalized sale of liquor are to be
made by the commission within the com
ing week,
It is reported that wholesale licenses.
which are controlled entirely by the state,
have been issued to Thomas G. Gaul of
Burlington, who has refused a part of the
a II , Ml 1 i - A c? i .
blacksmith shop of Boucher, who saw C ' ' . ""'1 mP'"' w,nw
them coming and called to three little 17r ..unm
a a ....a . i. .t. I street.
. Bakersfield, April 22.
the little son of Mr. and Mrs. F. A. Start,
was severely injured yesterday after
noon when ho Was struck bv a runaway
The story of BPa of horses which had just hauled the
. .' J I it.- r . c i .
driver
A. W.
Boucher when the latter attemivted to
av tno little Mart boy.
Blodah was thrown out of the wagon
shortly after the horses started to run,
being, hurled in front of the wheel. He
was bruised but no bones were broken.
The unrestrained horses ran towiird the
FOUR HOURS' SECRET TALK
Washington, D. C, April 22. Easter
er went to assist him. 'The horses were
upon him before he could complete the
rescue and both man and rhild were
struck by the runaways. Boucher whs
not seriously hurt but the Start bov re
i : : i 1. e e I
WOW MljUllf! Ltfe OI OlOf fill, H J C" I Stftt Cmeil t S
Failed to Change Purpose to Place
Barre's $75,000 Sinking Fund.
Four hours in executive session at citv
hall last night did not serve to clarity
the sinking fund situation, according to
made to-dav. and unles
weeK win lie com ana iinseiiiea over m. iireoi jaw ana. neep gasnes on we thpre are developments before fav 1,
northern part of the country, with prob- head- vde of Bakersfield the lotion, carried April 11, authorizing
ably-local snows in the northwest, ac- 1 ' ; ' V" """ the city treasurer to divert the. $75,000
cording to the weather ' bureau's local
forecast, issued to-day. A disturbance
eveloplng over the far West about Tues-
summoned and the boy was taken to fund to the Barrfi Sllvings nank 4 Tn)s(.
Hav will probablv reach the eastern
states near the end of the week.
the hospital in ft. Albans, where to-day
his condition was reported to be favor
able
The runawavs continued on their wav
and one of them was badly hurt by run
ning against a pole.
WOMAN DEAD ON TRACK.
NORMAL SCHOOL PRINCIPAL.
She is Thought to Have Been Mme.
Therese Arrested for Drunkenness.
Johnson School.
GERARD SAN VON JAGOW.
and of the four railroad employes brth-i i. 1 .
Harry E. Iewis, class of t'S.
erh-ol wi'l mwt at (risajro on April
27 to disri. t!:e denn ) of the brolh
hoo. for B eight hour ev. Ann"!in.-e-ment
if V is fTe-t wa ma'e to day
hr W. G. Ie. prei.!.-it of t?e tra.n
rr n" er-r;;t s n. 7"'- n t o. a
UKj;e!l bv t'.e r '-on.! in a biter
t t i v aiid a i- j tarroe as im-
lb axaj ia AirJ ft Ut jear, ba lie tifdjite'j tulhctwti,
SCOTT MEETS FU5ST0N.
Chief f Staff Visits American Com min
der on Border.
an Antonio, lex, April 22M).-Gen.
eiua.L. fcestt, ciief ct tUJ f tie
After He Delivered Note to Berlin For
eign Office.
Washington. 1). C, April 22 With ofii-
ial word that the American note had
M-en presented to the Berlin foreign
office, the administration officials to-dav
momentarily expvted definite advices
from Ambaador Gerard as to how the
communication was received, together
with some indication as to the nature of
the German reply.
In reporting the delivery of the note
Ambassador lierard adv ised the depart
ment that he afterwards conferred brief
ly with Foreign Minister Yon Jagow.
The content of another message a
closely guarded, although a, ail
that in it Cerard informed the depart
ment that asiirance had been given hn.l
of the imme-liate ronsidetation of the
Amerh-an note.
Old Orchard, Me., April 22. An un
identified woman about, 40 years of age,
was killed by a Portland-bound train on
the eastern division of the Boat n i
Main railroad, near Milliken's Mills, late
vesterdav afternoon. The description of
the woman, however, is strikingly like
that of a woman giving her name as
Mme. Therese, ber address as Boston,
who. after arraiirnment in the Bidde-
ford police court yesterday morning, fol
lowing a subsequent attempt aft suicide
in the police station, was given one hour
in which to leave town.
The body was found by Victor Sicard
of Biddeford, a section foreman, "who was
trailing the train on a handcar to ex
tinguish sparks. Medical Examiner
Travnor, after examination, concluded
that the woman, who undoubtedly was a
passenger on the train, either jumed
or fell between the oars while attempt
ing to pass from one car to another.
,
ACCUSED OF FORGERY
Co. at an interest rlate of 4.7B, will pre
vail. Ail ot tne councillors were present.
last evening and after a report from thn
ponce committee advocating an ordi
nance amendment that will provide for
a deputy police chief had been referred
to the legislative committee, the council
retired to a closed sitting. The commit
tee will return a draft of the proposed
Miss Bessie Bacon Goodrich Secured for amendment 1st tne meeting of the alder
men luesdav evcninir.
Percolating throuch the few fissures
The state board of education has en- that form a connecting avenue between
gaged Miss Hesie Bacon Goodrich of the public and officialdom in executive
Kluaniazoo, Mich., as principal of the session, is the report that a motion to
State Normal schixil at Johnson, to sue-I rescind the action of April 11 waa made
ceed Inr. A. U. l eake, resigned, at the land seconded, only to be defeated with
close of the present sehool year, at a the aid of a vote from the alderman who
salary of $1,800 per year. The board J seconded the motion. Afterward a mo-
has re-eleeted the remainder of the pres-ltion to strike the previous motion from
ent teaching staff at Johnson. the record prevailed. It is said that
Miss Goodrich was born at kahima&oo, pressure was brought to bear on Mavor
Mich.. April 17, 1K70. .She received her I Gordon to veto the action of April II.
preparatory training in the schools oil although it is reported to be a mooted
Kalamazoo, and entered the Michigan I question whether such a move is consti-
State Normal college at Ypsilanti in 1S0O, I tutional. For the most part the meeting
grUduating trom that instiution two i was given over to discussion.
vears ater. From 1!01 to 1304 she
taught in the public schools of Michigan
and Illinois. Inirins the vear JA04-05
she studied at Teachers' college. CWIum-
bia university. From 1005 to 1011 she
did critic work at the Western State
Normal school. Kalamazoo, ami in 1911
was made instructor in the departments
of education and rural schools land su
pervisor of rural practice teaching. Pur
ing the summer of 1014 Miss Goodrich
took summer work at the I'niversitv of
LOST IN THE MAILS.
Mr. Norah Mulvanev on dav met ber
friend. Mrs. Bridget Carr, who had in her
arm her !2th child.
Arrah now. Bridget." said Vorsh, "aT
Wisconsin, anil in 1015-Irt continued her
Roland Johnson, Medical Student, Under studies at Teachers' college. Columbia
Arrest at Burlington. university, where she revetted the degree
. . , I of haclielor ot science in rebntarv. l'.'Ifl.
Burlington. April Kola ml doiinson Th, ,)Iir,i ..-.-j ,t..f , n,fmmv f
of Rutland, a sophomt re medical student sllp,.rintendenf s of the state be held at jf,,r S'2-"0. he does not recall from
ai me cnner-uy ot trrmimi, "'- Morrill hall, lltirlington. Jnv li to la.
rested vesterdav on a warrant maue
out by City Grand Juror Sherman H.
Moulton. charged with hating forged
three checks passed in this city Wed
nesday. The" cheeks forged were as follows:
One on H. Ia. Pitcher for two dollar
ilh the signature "S. A. Barnes"; one
for four dollars pasrd on George W.
Hatch, a local barber, with the signa
ture "A. R. Bruva"; one on the depot
restaurant for 4.25 ith the signature
"R. A. Bruya." All of tlw check were
forired n the Howard National bank
blank rheils. alleged to bate been taken jernoon
from the check fk of his roommate, j family
Letter Containing Checks, Sent to Mont-
pelier to Deposit, Disappears.
M. K. Cutler of Fast Burre on April 4
mailed a letter to Montpelier containing
check for deposit. I'p to date thev hate
not reached tho hank thev are niaded to.
Thoe check were taken by Mr. Cutler
in the regular course of husine or were
cached by him for customers and no rec
ord a made of them when mailed.
Some of them he remembers from whom
thev were taken and when, but threr.
one for $f.2., one for ..-S.o" and another
ho m
thev were received or the hunk on which
they were drawn. Parties who had
cheeks cashed by Mr. Cutler lietween
March IS and April 1 will do him a fa
vor by advising him if any of the above
amount was the amount of their che k.
FUNERAL OF F. MARAN0N
Who Died at Fanny Allen Hospital, Was
Held in Baire.
The funeral of Franstino .Maranon. a
Barre uranitcuitt'T. whose death at the
age of .T.I 04--urr.il Wedn-sUy afternoon I After Being Dragged Some Distance By a
NEVER REGAINED HEALTH
at the Fanny Allen hospital in Winonski.
was held at hi home on North Main
street Friday afternoon at 2 oMock. the
body hating been brought to Barre over
the Central Vermont railroad on the aft-
f the previous day. Nearly every
in the Spanish ei.l-mv of Barre
It is alleped that Johnson went ttjand many from f-at Irre and Mont-
Pitcher ' restaurant in the evening anl;pelier gathered at the houe whii the
ordered a lnn-h, stating that be would : services were in rrogr, and a large
come to eat it later with friend. In number of men formed an es.mrt while
payment for the lunih he drew a rhexjt the remairs were being taken to the
f r two doll.ir. It ai pears that he then Catholic c -n .-? v on Berkley street for
went t the ueix.f reta irant with hi Tt.roert. The larer were: Fre.ier-.-o
frx-nd an i had tni ir. he bill anioimt-i Panto. Rafael Pando. Citrfiamt Nsttie-
Horse.
Swanfon. April 22. Homer M. Proutv.
mail carrier. R. F. M. No. 2, dieil sti lden
Iv lt etching. He had horn confine.!
f. the house sio-e the big snow- storm in
lieermher. when hi sleigh tipped oter
near t'ie r mil tarin and he wa dragg"!
some !i-tam-e by the hore. He wa in
jure.! so severely that he bad not heon
able to reume work. fit death came in-
ei t"i! v. He begun work on route No.
J when it was ftrt e-ttb!jshe.. . er
there te are w id another 1 (tie Carr in ' ' r ,0 "'lr. It ajpears that he then at hour f"tt on Ifcvkloy tr-et fora T, har lis tilr an I
terarms." jwcrt t the ueix.f retairant with hi Tt.r'oert. I I.e Is are,- were: ir-.T: thtc children. C. W. II an Irrct
"Another it is. Mr. Muivjnet." re ' fttends an i had n jr. he bill anioimt-j Panto. Rafael Pando. Cijiam. Stt - j 'P,,ti are to bretle's. H wji irn
.iid b.-r friend, an' it "s me thai's' hoj.m' j mg o ?-"!. He drew another e'-.ec k s-b. J'i ittrt.. Ifim 4 VI and J. ( ,n '.:'! ." tears 2. .-it tat re. W
tt the c b"t." ITte Amerrn Vrvg- there for 4 2i and told the waiter to latin IgWtas. Mr. .Varan, n is smtsttd in m rm-t of ) i I fe. Hi fat'jcr,
-t, errt ti .hac v La ilt and tout cluUieiu U L Itwrj, d;ei Ut Dwxiat,
