Pi 0JP
DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF GOOD CITIZENSHIP AND THE UPBUILDING OF THE COMMUNITY.
VOLUME IX.
CLAYTON, NEW MEXICO, SATURDAY". APRIL 22, MIG
NO. 17
i
M HIGH SCHOOL BUILDING
When Completed Clayton High
School Will He Best Equipped
and Most Modern in State
Regardless of where the new Un
ion County High Schol will bo lo
cated, wliicli at this writing is prob
;ihly as iiulcfiuitc as the where-jilnc.it.-
of Villa, when it is Anally
located and the. structure completed
it, Vill bo one of the finest in the
.tale of NVw Mexico.
While not u large building it is to
be conveniently arranged and is
lil.inncd in such a nianer that it will
inert the needs of Union county for
years to come.
The building will bo i07 by O'J feet,
constructed of concrcule and brick.
TIm- Inundation and walls of the
basement, or rattier, half basement, !
will he of concrete and the super- I lior:
structure will i f brick. The,. Mo;
(lass of brick is Irte optional with (
tin- school imam ami n is pronamo i
that a bull' brick will he chosen.
In the basement, besides the heat-:
ing plant and janitors rooms, will:
b
located Hie Dtnuestic Science and
c II i i ai mullir niin'i un i ii i.
these rooms will be iltleil lor their :
purpose wilh the most modern and
approved equipment consisting of
alt the necessary tools and cooking
utensils.
M.. .1 T, .. I.. I I..i.i.,. I!,. Ill
On the tirst, Moor will he lour class
mums, un- o.,,..- ..o.. , ,. ,...... ,1, , (.lt(11 (( s,.,.(.t a, ii,,,,,. rcprcsen-
lihrury. The ollico will prohahly he ,,, t,, sta,. roi.v.-ntinii ten
occupied hy the city supon ndeiit(i(. (). ,lls,nilll . vt,. getting
or schools and will he appropriately .,,.,. ,- tl,e parly from thecoun
funiished. The library will contain I )y 1,,,.,,.
Hll the necessary rclcrriire woi-ks j ' , .',,1,',, xvas chosen as inter
needed hy pupils of the sel I "tt ,.,.,,.,.. ,! afterward, finding that
magazines of an educational nature" ,, . , si,,ilt( ,, r u. ..ti-
may be kept on lile. Hooks from the
library .will not be allowed from,
the room but a table, or tables will!
be furnished, where the pupils may
take notes on (lie subjects they are '
interested in. I
The second lloor will be used for
the auditorium and the music rooms. ,
and the two extra rooms will proh-
ably be utlized as a chemistry and a
physics laboratory. The music i
(Minis will be furnished with pianos
and will be devoted to the exclusive.
use of those pupils, taking music
lessons and the classes In music. The i
two seientillc , laboratories will be
fully equipped with Mie necessary '
apparatus for the study of the two
sciences. Much or llus apparatus
is at present in use by the pupils of
the school and this will be added to
until the equipment is complete, i
The auditorium will be construct
ed along the most improved lines,
having a sloping lloor so the seats
will bo in tiers. There wilt be a
rostrum, or stage, large enough for
any high school entertainment and
the plans include the installation of
a motion picture machine. The
room will seal six hundred people
and will be for the general uso of
tho publio in giving entertainments,
for meetings, and other uses.
The estimated cost of the building
is thirty thousand dollars, not in
cluding any of the equipment, which
cost in the neighborhood of three
thousand dollars, according to flg
, ures obtained from a member of the
board.
New Ford Tractor Arrives V'
Tho Ford Tractor, for which the
H. Herzslein Seed Co. arc agents, ar
rived in Clayton Wednesday, and
is on exhibition in front of the seed
store.
..This tractor is tho first of this
make lo be received in New Mexico.
It is tho tractor, say the makers,
that will revolutionize the farm bus
iness as the Ford jitney has the auto
business. v
It Is an eight-six teen tho popular
size for the medium farm as well as
the farm of many acres, and is
claimed to be the most versatile
tractor on the market. Equipped
with a rear steering wheel it will
tura a closer corner, allowing closer
plowing or cultivating in the fenco
corners.
'As to work Herb Ilerzstein says
"It will work to beat its looks, and
it looks like h ". It devclopes its
rated draw bar pull and will easily
handle a two gang plow in sod and
three fourteen inch plows in broken
land. It will pull with ease a disk
or spike harrow with a spread of
twelve feet and a roller behind the
harrow. ""Owing to its peculiar con
struction it can bo used to rull a two
row cultivator, a doublo row lister,
or almost any implement that can
be worked successfully with a team.
In fact John Guyer maintains that
the New Ford will do everything on
7
the farm except "weed tho garden
SAME 0L0 GANG DOMINATE
THE REPUBLICAN JUNTA
In a bombastic
burlesque upon .
represenlativt'
convention the wheel
es of the .-o. id old party la-t
day afternoon put the siuus uu
i in- good citizenship of Hie com
munity and openly avowed that the
Hepulihcan parly was the party of
hossisiu and ruination: was inten
tionally so, in order that those sum"
wlle
horses could control it.
remain so. lor the same
and
rea-
oU
son.
The con --ni ii in. or ratio -r. extrav
aganza, was called to order by "Holi
er! Mnitus" Palmer, who announced
Ihat the delegates had asseliihled
i . : I I.. 1 1. ........... I
I I Mi ll I III III ' I o l III ll- II .Fill. I I II
.ens of the lower country in not pass The cast includes eleven principal
ing It i n i an empty honor Ihe wheel- ; characters and tin- chorus w ill coin
ers appointed Mahnpiias Haca as as- , prise practically every pupil in (In
sistan!, interpreter. sel I. There are many ililhcull
Will .1. Woods, of Amislail. was dance numbers which the members
awarded the doubtful honor of pre- of the chorus are learning readily
siding over the convention as tf in- j and Ihe work of drilling the cast in
porary chairman until the steam Ihe music and slory is progressing
roller could get. in its work and' rapidly.
elect, the chairman chosen at. the The operella i- called "'The I'riu
vv heel horse caucus. Mr. Woods cess Chrysanthemum' and is one of
accepted' tin- tentative position 1 the most delight fu I ami rain-iful i p
gracefully, as becomes a worker injen-IHis ever written. The story of
the ranks, and to aroiisi- Un-enthus-. the operella is fairy-like in its na
nism of the convention made a long 'lure and siguiticance.
drawn speech upon the political sit- i Princess f.hrv saiiUu-iniiiu is roin-
nation in Indiana, which, while not ing of age. and her father, the Km
! quite so important as the political i peror, is holding a great Tele in he:
i situation in I nioii nullity, is much , honor. I'.hi-ysanlhemuui is loved hy
safer to talk about.
Isidro Montoya was elected sec
retary, and in order In pass around
the plums as far as possible, the
place of assistant secretary was
i created ami given in n. n. r.rrcii..
i According to instruction, patently
given, l.i. W. Snyder, II. J. Hammond
and Kiifracio (iarcia were appoiule-
i ed a committee on credentials. This
I was considered a good move by the
wheel horses. It would never done
to have appointed more than two of
Ihe wheel horses on the credentials
committee, but there was no need.
"We can leave it to Dud and Eufra
cio to keep out any delegation that
is liable to make trouble" said one of
the instructed delegates in an undertone.
The resolutions committee, hav ing j and at the same nioinent the E111
iiottiing to do with the procedure of peror anil his atendunts arrive and
the eonveiiton but lo retire and af- j take .Saucer-Eyes prisoner,
terward report by reading a set of ' Threatened with l rture Saucer-
i..:.w. ..in..n.i., ......11.. i.,nn..,nu '
1 rauiutiuiia uin.au in-nii ijiiuwiii-
ten by the accommodating steno
grapher of the boss, was composed
of real delegates, who believed all
to be in accordance with usual con
vention procedure. Tho coinmilleo
consisted of II. 11. Woodward, E.San
doval, D. W. Crow, J. Andres Pache
co and Juan Vigil. Mr. Woodward! The story comes to a happy end
was appointed to suggest the reso-! ing when the Emperor bestows the
lutions and read the report.
Hy the use of proxies from the
many absent delegates, and tho ad-
option of tho unit rule in order to
defeat the purpose of some six or
ight progressive members of the
Clayton delegation the bosses sue-
cecd in carrying the fantastic farce
of a convention as they wished nd
defeated every move of the pro
gre.ssive element.
Speeches were made
present but little was
by many j
said. The '
speakers was heartily in accord with
one Theodore Roosevelt, the biggest
gangster of tho good old parasites;
tho Democrats wero aheady doom
ed to be plunged into the deepest-
obivion samo old stuff used every
time the bosses want to pull wool
over the unsuspecting dt legates from
the outlaying precincU and the
"persecution" of Hob Ma,nsker at
the band of the Democratic party
lad failed.
Which constituted tho convention.
Peace and harmony, the dove and !
tho olivo branch, and much patting 1
of backs by "Robert Ouitus" and 1
"Doiihly Y igirlcy. for the -jm
the pal ly, to injure .success. etc.
ad lib.
r
Mi Mania D.-nn. of Mt. lie
isitmi: Mes. Wamslcv Hti- i-
-V
"PüiíJGESS CliiTTSífJTKfiM"
ML. BE PRESENTED
BY H.S. POFiLS
1 1 i It 1 1 School and (.rade Pupil-. Will
I'reseiil Plea-inn Oppri tla at
Mission
' Pupil- of lie- I'.lav
and lie' higher grade
school are preparin
on II i 1 1 si lnn 1 1
ot tin- pi unary
' to pvenl an
operella at the
some tiine in ih
Mwsloii Theatre
very iiear fidiire,
Ihe exact, dale not bavins 1 u do-
' t -1 ' 1 1 1 1 1 1 -ti upon. f
' The operetta is a .i t hll'ul Jap
i anéese sloi'y in Mire. nets and
; abounds wi! h daiutv costumes and
! sparkling, calchy music. - "
Prince So-Tin. and returns his af
fection, but Prince So-Sli, also in
love with the Princess plans to in
terrupt the .marriage. He seeks the
aid of Saucer-Kye, the wizard cal,
who carries Chrysanthemum away
to the cave of Inky-Night, where she
is heltl prisoner while the Emperor I that it has already succeeded in ac
und Prince S0-T111 are distracted. quiring several hnuured thousand
The Princess, held prisoner, by aid dollars in public salaries, ami that
of the magic ring summons the in the event of the nomination and
Fairy-Moonbeam, who is about to 'election of Secundum only members
help her escape when she drops the (if the family and their relatives
ring and tho goon fairy disappears j would get the jobs.
Prince So-Tru has gained admit- And to add to the troubles of llo
tauce to the cave and in searching mero and liursum, ilulph C. Ely, He-
for the hiding place of Chrysantli-, publican state chairman, has cast
eiuuin linds the ring. This causes his hat into the ring, and is now en
the Fairy-Moonheam to return. Aid-: gaged in collecting rocks to dump
ed by the fairy he finds tho Princess, t into the cogs of the old Hepublicuu
Eye exposes the plot of So-Sli and
the two are sentenced to instant e.v-
ecution. This is frustrated, how -
ever, by the timely appearance of
Prince So-Tru imd hij Princess who
plead with tho Emperor for the for-
giveness of the two culprits, which
is granted. -
band of his daughter upon her wor-
thy admirer, Prince So-Tru.
Tho principal parts have not yet
been assigned but it is hardly neces-
'sary to say that they will bo given
! to tho pupils who are best iltted to
! carry them to perfection.
VThe work of training the child
ren is being conducted by Miss Sull
ivan, Miss Slater and Mrs. Under
wood, y
Visiting Mrs. Kuhns
1 ii V" A l.llnn iK. I lililí.
the latter part of the week and will
spend several weeks here visiting
her daughter, Mrs. Win. Kuhns.
Orin M. Ouni, or Thomas, was in
the city the latter part of tho week,
making arrangement to ,vrovc up on
his homestead near that place.
Nin Ilalcomb was in from the
ranch the latter part of the week.
C. C. Sheeley, of Patterson, was :
business visitor in Clayton tho lat
ter rart of tho 'eek.
"
rinTlfHIll fTPUTP
HUll IUNAL NuMo
CONTINUE IN G. 0. P
IV. inl J".
i. !'. ranks in
In iinidiplj. :
I i
i
ml
-.lies u
Alexin
e split:
ol III.
I ro-
In lw
pal !
!ln- various
i -i- In nun
la.
t II 1 1 U !'-1 ll.lllv.
S-ciindiiu lloiiii'io. of Sim Miguel
ll.l-. Ii.-rolni- lutli !- Ill nis oppoMtiol
In lioiiu 1 1. I'.ur-ii'ii ot Socorro, hi.
principa! rival for He- Itepiiblicai
nomina! ion for governor, and I- op
eiily altackin-j I through Ihe col
.imii- of In- "I'.l li',ien-udi-nte,'' i
Spanish weekly of '.as xeuas. lie i
ai; i.i iiig that history will repea
il-i-i; ii l.iii 1 1 ii i- again noiiiinalei
and liii idelilallv is pi-oclaimmg him
self a I'o-piihln-au Saviour, and th
i"nio-l heroic liuure" in the Kepub
lican parly.
It wi
be t-ecallei: that Humeri
app'
I mil
.lud jini-
an d -peclarularly heroic a lie
of his uiq rovoke.l assault, "i
e K. V. I.ong, ited I'euincrali
t. at Un- San Miguel county jab
and again in comiection with his no
lorien- attempt to investigate" Hi
stale penitentiary during the las
-e--loll of the legislature, W le-n evei
hi- Kepiihlii-au root-agues quit I1Í14
in disgust.
In addition lo his attacks on Pur.
-11111. It 10 is piavlng up the race
i--ue, and is leaving nothing undone
to arouse race pre.jii'iiro. In Ibis he
i- being gallanly abetted by . A.
I.ai'iaolo, political acrobat, a native
of Old .Mexico, w ho has his heart set
on the Mi-publican nomination for
the supreme court.
In turn, liursum, who also has
some heroic performances to his
credit, notably Ihe "lliirning of the
Hook-," and his hackers are ridicul
ing the possibility of llomcro's el
ect ion in the event of his nomina
tion, declaring that he would be
'.scratched" by itepulilh-ans from
one cud of the stale to the othei.
They are pointing out, particularly
lo Spanish-Americans, that the Ho
mero family is a close corporation;
macliine. hi y plans a pre-conven-ioii
eaiuiigu ha its coram to prove
painful to Ins opponents for tho gu
be material nomination. Ho hasn't a
1 remote chance of getting anywhere,
j but he promises to show up tho ma
1 clime politicians 111 sucli a way as
j to deprive them of the suport of
many of the more independent He
1 publicans.
1 Like Homero and liursum, Hub-
;bel and Catron also aro indulging
111 pleasantries at each others ex
pense, and "Hull" Andrews is lying
in wait, hoping for an opportunity
j to explode somo political dynamite
under either one or tho other, or
I both. The Catronites are promoting
i the resurrection of Hubbell's Bcr
nalillo county "past," and Hubbell
is using Catron's treatment of Span-
ish-Americans in connection wilh
the Ortiz and Mora land grants to
encourage a race feud against him
And in til's meantime the Ilepub-
CONVENTION TIE CHANGED
For Benefit of the County Delegates
Convention Will Convene In
Afternoon
In order to be more convenient for
the delegates from the outlaying
precincts the time of the Dcmocratio
County Convention lias been changed
from seven thirty at night to two
Miss Mary Hope, a graduato"nurso,
who mis peen visiting in uiayion ior
the past few weeks, lias decided to
remain here and start a maternity
-pital. She has reutt)d the 11am-
inoiiil property east of the school
house and will have the bouse fit
ted with all conveniences necessary
to the eharate' of tier work. This
enterprise is one greatly needed.
Hospitals of this character arc a
convenience of unestimaUiUh) value
to the many mothers of the county
who have great difficulty in secur
ing competent nurses and at times
are unable to even obtain prompt
attention of a physician.
Wis. Hurlan Injured
.Mrs. Harlan was quite seriously
injured Monday afternoon when the
the auto in whirl she and Mrs. Sim
erl were riding turned over near
the outskirts of the town.
Mrs. Simerl was driving the car
and lost control of it going down a
sharp decline ust north of the city.
in sume manner ine cur lumuu com
pletely over throwing its ocupants
to the ground.
Mrs. Harlan was caught under the
windshield, which struck her on the
left thigh and caused a very severe
cut. Shu was painfully bruised
about the body, but at this writing
is reported improved and recover
ing. Mrs. Simerl was bruised and sev
erely shaken by her rail from the
car,, but being thrown clear of the
car1 escaped more serious injury.
Odd Fellows Sleet
Clayton Lodgo No. 43 IOOE met
Thursday evening with tho usual
good attendance, and an enjoyable
evening was spent by all. Several
visitors being present made some
interesting talks which were great
ly apro iated. Regular meeting each
Thursday evening at 8 o'clock. Vis
itors and members cordially invited.
lican press in announcing thai
perfect harmony exists in the Re
publican party. It is the kind of
harmony that adds lo the certainty
of a Democratic victory at the polls
next November.
