Tim iw
A J iriiiMiliff 1W riHi)
iii i ik i
miflftlliG
W A IT
Vol. 20
EAST JORDAN, MICHIGAN, SATURDAY. APRIL 22. 1916.
No. 17
Criminals Captur
ed at Charlevoix
Harry Powers and Morris La
Valley Hounded Up, Thursday
Charlevoix has been considerably
iised-up this week over the fact that
Mo of the five prisoners who broke
jail at Travel se City the 13th, had taken
to Charlevoix for refuge from the hand
of the law. After giving Sheriff Charles
Novak and his deputies the slip early
Tuesday morning a search has been
steadily going on for the men and on
Thursday afternoon they were located
in the Michigan hotel (formerly the
Ellston) where they had concealed
themselves in the basement. They at
tempted another get-a-way but this
time the officers were wary of their
game and corraled them in a near-by
barn yard.
The supervisors of Grand Traverse
offered a reward of $500 for the ap
prehension of Powers. It is claimed
that he is a well-known criminal want
ed in several cities of the country for
crimes committed. He was one of the
main witnesses in the Germaine case
1 at Traverse City.
In Mcmoriam, Geo. G. Glenn.
April 19, 1916.
Board of Directors of the STATE
BANK OF EAST JORDAN in Hegular
meeting assembled!
With regret and sorrow, we note the
enforced absence of our former Cashier
and Director, Geo. G. Glenn, and with
a knowledge that he is no more to meet
with us in this capacity, be it Resolved
That we shall miss him in our busi
ness deliberations as well as in social
affairs in which he so actively partici
pated. Resolved: That while realizing our
own loss, we are not unmindful of the
greater loss to those more closely allied
by the ties of nature, and that we
extend to the bereaved family our
sincere sympathy.
Resolved: That these resolutions of
spread upon our permanent records,
and a copy be furnished each of our
City papers for publication.
W. P. Porter
M. H. Robertson
W. J. Ellson
W. L. French
Carl Stroebel
B. E. Waterman
Directors
ELBERT BEDE SAYS
The Russians are using japanned
weapons.
Striped suits and checkered careers
go together.
Old Sol is the greatest hot air peddler
we know of.
It's an unreasonable man who insists
'that his wife be reasonable.
The jokers are the things that make
life serious for the legislature.
Parents make themselves foolish tell
ing how smart their offsprings are.
The dress doesn't necessarily make
the woman, but some of them show how
she is made.
State officers with la grippe refused
to lay off, says a headline. Who ever
heard of an officer relaxing his hold?
If the whole country goes dry, what
are cartoonists and jokesmiths going to
do to fill space the first of each year.
The peace dove has returned from its
flight and found nothing but battleships
upon which it could alight to rest its
wings.
An officer of the law refused to use a
search warrant on a half dozen boot
leggers. Give us the warrant and we'll
locate the stuff.
A well known woman author is re
ported to have said that women love
more deeply than men. Necessarily, for
the man in love is the shallowest thing
imaginable.
The person with the audacity to claim
that there is no hell, never did time as
a devil around a country print shop on
press day when things were going
wrong.
The boy who is taught to keep his
things in their proper places, thinks his
parents shoild practice what they
preach and that the proper place for
a slipfT is not on the rear of his anato
my. '
Our advice to a girl is that she will
never be happy if she marries a man
who is in any way unappreciative of
the great favor she is conferring upon
khim. For goodness sake, don't marry
m man who thinks the favors are the
KOther way about.
No doubt the wise old hen chuckles
to herself every time she sees a man
trying to beat her little game with an
incubator.
Merchants Mati
nee a Success
Over
1200 Were Entertained
Last Saturday.
The Saturday afternoon Merchants'
Matinee had its initial entertainment
last Saturday and started "big" in
every way. The weather was ideal and
people came from a distance of over
ten miles to enjoy the afternoon's
entertainment prepared by Manager
Adams of the Temple Theatre who has
worked out a system whereby the
merchants provide their customers
with free tickets to these Saturday
afternoon entertainments. Over twelve
hundred were in attendance last Satur
day and it is safely predicted that with
a fairly good day this Saturday after
noon will see even a larger crowd.
THE SEED CORN SITUATION
On account of the. continued cold and
wet weather during the summer of 1915
the corn crop made a much slower
growth than usual, and with a few
exceptions, failed to mature.
Immature corn, when used for seed,
does not germinate well and the plants
are apt to be weak and backward in
their growth. Moreover, the unripe
corn harvested last fall contained an
excessive amount of moisture which
favored the development of mold and
other fungus diseases and was responsi
ble for serious injuries from freezing.
In order to determine the seriousness
of the seed corn situation the Depart
ment of Farm Crops made a limited seed
corn survey in representative sections
in ten counties in Southern Michigan.
Inquiries were made as to the amount
of seed corn available and samples
were secured for germination tests.
While results varied somewhat in
different sections, the conditions were
found to be very unsatisfactory in all of
the ten counties. It was found that only
59 per cent, of the farmers had saved
seed corn, and many of these had not
enough for their own use, and much of
that which had been saved was not fit
for planting. The average per cent, of
germination, including the weak sprouts
was 53.4 per cent.
It is readily seen from these figures
that the seed corn situation in Michigan
is very serious. It is a situation that
will result in thousands, if not millions
of dollars loss to Michigan farmers the
coming season unless an unusual effort
is made by all corn growers to secure
the best possible grade of seed corn.
It is a matter of prime importance
that all seed corn used for 191G planting
should be tested. A very satisfactory
germination test may be made as fol
lows:. Make a flat box 3x20x30 inches
inside measure and till nearly full with
moist sand; then mark into squares two
inches across by a cord which is passed
around nails driven in the sides of the
box. The squares in the first row be
ginning at one end are numbered 1 to
10, the second 11 to 20, etc. After
placing six grains from each ear in their
respective checks, another one-half inch
of moist sand is used to cover the corn.
If in any check all of the grains do not
grow or if the sprouts do not show
sufficient vigor, the corresponding ear
should be discarded. It is frequently
possible by the use of the individual
ear test and discarding of the dead
and weak ears to secure a good grade
of seed corn from a supply which aver
ages low in germination.
It is not advisable, as a rule, to go to
other states for seed corn or even to go
very far sonth in Michigan, especially if
the corn has been grown on a more
fertile soil. In most sections of the state
there is some fairly well matured corn
of the 1915 crop and some 1914 corn that
has been stored in dry, well ventilated
cribs that is suited for planting if care
fully tested by the individual ear
method. Farmers who wish to purchase
seed corn should first investigate the
supply in their own sections. If a satis
factory supply is not located this way,
application should be made to the local
county agent or to the Agricultural
College.
The seriousness of the seed corn situ
ation is not generally appreciated and it
is feared that many farmers will have
very thin stands which will produce
only a small percentage of the usual
crop. It is important that every corn
grower who has not already done so
should test his seed corn at once. Use
the individual ear method and throw
out the dead and weak ears, making a
good grade from your own variety if
possible. If necessary to purchase seed
corn, make arrangements to do so early
as possible, securing varieties adapted
to focal conditions.
V. M. SHOESMITH,
Professor of Farm Crops.
East Lansing, Michigan.
April 12th, 1915.
Republicans Hold
Co. Convention
Elect Delegates to the State and
District Conventions.
The Republican County Convention
was held at Boyne City last Tuesday for
the election of delegates to the Repub
lican State and Congressional Conven
tions. For some reason only the third
ward delegates from East Jordan at
tended, from this city viz: Hon. II. I.
McMillan, D. S. Payton and II. F. Reid.
J. II. Graff represented South Arm
township.
The convention passed a un
animous resolution endorsing Judge F.
W. Mayne for the supreme bench and
pledging him their personal support
and endeavor in forwarding his can
didacy. The following were elected delegates
to the Congressional Convention to be
held at St. Ignace, Tuesday, April 25th:
J. M. Harris, R. A. Emrey, II. B. Wood,
L. Shanahan, Jacob Graff, A. E. Cross,
F. D. Thompson, M. E. Silverstein, Ned
Fox, W. J. Person.
To the State Convention at Lansing,
Wednesday, May 3rd: W. J. Pearson,
J. M. Harris, E. W. Abbott, A. G. Urku
hart, II. I. McMillan, D. H. Fitch, R. W.
Paddock, P. D. Campbell, Jr., L. E.
Benton, W. J. Elston.
ALONG THE FIRING LINE
When Senator Chamberlain, of
Oregon, goes out on the stump next fall
to defend Democratic free trade policies
he is likely to be confronted with a
statement made by him. in the Senate
on March 13th while discussing the
army reorganization bill. Senator
Chamberlain admitted that the Ameri
can army costs more per man than any
other army in the civilized world, and
said:
"The Americnn soldier, like the
American laborer, demands to be better
fed, better clothed, and better taken
care of. Place our army on the basis of
some other army and you would not
have a corporal's guard in the United
States."
"Like the American laborer," is the
expression that gives away the whole
Democratic free trade argument. When
it is admitted that the American laborer
demands to be better fed, beeter clothed
and better taken care of than the
laborer of any other civilized country t
it must also be admitted that the dif
ference must be covered and guaran
teed by a protective tariff or the foreign
laborer will seize the American market
and, relatively speaking, there won't
be a corporal's guard left in American
mills. Senator Chamberlain talks like
an advocate of protection of American
labor but he voted for the Underwood
tariff bill, which refused the demand of
the American laborer to be 'better fed,
better clothed, and better taken care
of." Will Democratic newspapers in
Oregon give their candid opinion of the
merits of the demand of American
soldiers and American laborers?
Another election and another Demo
crat giving way to a Republican suc
cessor. This time it is in Kansas City,
Missouri, where a mayor was chosen.
The Republican tendency of 1916 is by
this time well established. The Kansas
City election is of particular importance
for it demonstrates the solid foundation
on which Republicans are basing their
claim to put Missouri in the Republican
column this fall. The President may
attempt to stem the tide by appointing
a few more Missouri Democrats to fat
offices, but the fact remains that Mis
souri, like the country at large, has set
its face toward Republicanism this year.
Hartford, Connecticut, is also tired
of Democratic rule and at its recent
municipal election it supplanted a
Democratic city government with a
Republican. Object lessons of this
kind are worth a hundred straw votes
as proof of the political tendencies of
this presidential year.
The terminology of the White House
appears to have undergone a change,
also- though neither so sudden nor so
numerous as the President's change of
mind. We note that the word "crisis"
now has given place to the word
"climax" in describing the state of our
relations with Great Britain. We
anxiously await the new synonym for
"great diplomatic victory."
It is interesting and significant to
note the number of spirited contests
which are going on for election to the
Republican National Committee. That
committee thisear is going to conduct
a victorious campaign and many men
are anxious to have a share in the good
work.
State "Clean Up
Day, May 10
State Fire Marshal Urges Gen
eral Clean-Up on That Day.
TO THE PEOPLE OF MICHIGAN:
Each spring we enjoy a "CLEAN UP
DAY" in our State. A day which is
designated by the State Fire Marshal as
one which the people of Michigan shall
devote to the cleaning up of their pre
mises. '
Last year the people of our state en
tered into the spirit of the. occasion
with fine zest. This spring May 10th
has been selected as clean up day by
the state fire marshal and he has every
reason to believe that citizens and offi
cials will extend the same co-operation
that they did a year ago.
Let's make this a big day. '
First, we will get busy with the win
ter accumulation of rubbish and collect
and destroy it. x
You say "WHY?"
Because statistics show that one-third
of the deates of persons under 40 years
of age are caused by diseases contract
ed from filth.
Because a pile of rubbish encourages
a conflagration.
Secondly, we will look around the
house, the barn and the store.
Perhaps we will find a winter's sup
ply of old newspapers or magazines,
maybe we will discover that our wiring
needs attention, there is a chance that
our method of storing gasoline or kero
sene demands correction, probably we
will discover that our furnace or stove
pipes and chimneys need cleaning or
repairing to be made safe.
Then" we will turn our attention to
the exterior of our buildings.
A bad roof or dilapidated building is
a menace to all adjoining property.
The clean up day should be made a
repair or tear down day also. This will
be just the time to investigate our
school house or public halls. Are they
equipped with fire escapes, and are
they safe?
We can all help make clean up day
count for something.
Mr. Public Official you can help by
calling attention to the day, by boosting
it and by giving it your official support.
School Teacher, you can help by ask
ing your pupils to participate in the fire
prevention spirit of the day.
Fire Chief, you can lead in the prep
arations for the day with your advice
and encouragement.
Housewife, you know how to clean
house and you can be of great value in
the campaign.
Every citizen and householder can
enlist both in the planning for the day
and the execution of the plans.
Every citizen who is interested in
beautifying our state, in the preserva
tion of health and in the reduction of
the fire waste by fire prevention is re
quested to set aside May 10 as a "Clean
up day" and to assist in making it a
success.
JOHN T. WINSHIP,
Ex-Officio State Fire Marshal.
Lansing, Michigan, April 15, 191G.
DEWARD
Mrs. Geo. Ward is in town renewing
old acquaintances.
Mr. Bordeaux and daughter, Dorothy
are spending this week with relatives
in Standish.
Division Supt. M. C. Coyle was in
Deward, Wednesday.
Members of a wrecking Company of
of Manistee, were in town last week
looking over the Ward estate, and
taking inventory of the mill property.
Mrs. Goodenough is very ill at the
home of her daughter, Mrs. Oscar Dell.
Joe Mahar made a business trip to
Bay City this week.
Mrs. Henry Smith spent a couple of
days last week in East Jordan.
Miss Valesta Tousch returned home
after spending the winter in East Jor
dan. . School closes Friday for the Easter
vacation.
The Sunday School classes are to
have an Easter program Sunday.
Miss Fitzgerald, of Culver, was in
town Saturday.
Mrs. Carr returned to Detroit this
week.
It is a fortunate thing that society is
so shallow; otherwise half the people
who are in it would be drowned.
If we should use an ax on our own
faults we shouldn't have so much time
to use a hammer on other people's.
The Value of a
County Agent
Opposition To a County Agent
Is Considered.
By II. L. Barnum
Before the value of a County Agent
has been established by actual trial
there are always many objections
raised which on the surface at least
appear reasonable. Calm considera
tion of some of the objections, how
ever, generally shows them lacking in
logical foundation, and the others fall
in the face of the actual facts of the
case.
One of the objections heard, and this
even in counties where farm advisers
are employed, is that the men sent out
are not experts. When this movement
was in its infancy County Demonstra
tors, Farm Advisers, or County Agri
cultural Agents, as they are now called,
were spoken of as Farm Experts. This
title of Expert had a misleading effect
and some people expected the agent to
know everything about every phase of
the broad subject of farming. At pre
sent almost everyone has come to
realize that no one man can know it
all. The wisest and most experienced
man in the world cannot know all about
farming, or doctoring, or banking, or
practicing law. That is why advisers
or examiners are needed in all of these
callings.
A farm adviser is not a man who
never makes a mistake, but a trained
observer who gathers the best informa
tion from the best farmers and scien
tists and passes it on to whomsoever
inquires.
Another objection often heard in
Charlevoix County is that the County
Agent might be a young college gradu
ate with no practical farm experience.
This, if true, would be a very serious
objection surely. We doubt if any man
can succeed as a farm adviser purely
from college training. To be well
qualified such a person ought to have
college training in the theoretical and
scientific side of agriculture, of course,
but he should also have a few years of
actual farming experience if for no
other reason than to acquaint him with
the limitations of theory in actual prac
tice. Now, the men responsible for the
placing of County Agents ,know these
things just as well as any farmer does.
The men who have been sent into the
various Michigan counties as farm ad
visers have succeeded because they did
possess the two essential qualifications
mentioned above. Jason Woodman,
the agent in Kalamazoo County, is an
old man. C. B. Cook of Allegan county
is a man in middle life. H. G. Smith
of Kent, Brody of St. Clare, Walker of
Marquette, and, in fact, all the others
are men of maturity. In no case has
an inexperienced college graduate been
sent in answer to a call for a county
Farmers of Charlevoix County need
have no fear of having a misfit sent for
a farm advisor. If by any chance the
State Superintendant of County Agents
should send such a person, those in
charge of the movement in the county
can reject him and ask for another
candidate. The man finally chosen
must be satisfactory to all concerned
Still another objection is the increase
in taxation. Now, it cannot be said
that a $1200 or $1500 appropriation
spread on the tax roll will not increase
the taxes. The question is, therefore,
what will this increase be and will the
returns from the' investment warrant
it? The following figures arc intended
to show how little each person in the
county will feel the increase.
With her 20,000 population Charle
voix County would feel a $1200 appro
priation as a tax of G cents per capita.
There are 1460 farms in the county.
The county's share of the expense of a
county agent would amount to an
assessment of only 84 cents on each
farm each year. On the basis of
acreage the tax would amount to near
ly one cent per acre, as the average
farm in the county has 87.4 acres.
On the basis of valuation the tax
would amount to about three-tenths of
a mill on each dollar's farm valuation.
Next, with the returns warrant an
investment of 84 cents a year per farm
in a county agent? The investment is
small, it is true; but if the returns are
less, good business principles forbid
the investment. We believe, however,
that the farmers of the county can well
afford to invest many times this
amount for the privilege of haying a
farm adviser continually at their ser
vice, une example oi now sucn a per
son might be of value in a dollars and
cents way will illustrate the point'
It is a fact admitted by the majority
of men that they know very little about
the fertilizer requirements of the dif
ferent soils and different farm crops.
Commercial fertilizers with their sever
al different kinds of plant food, ex
pressed in percentages which are often
purposely misleading, and even stable
manure with its useful bacteria and its
condition of unbalanced composition
make a science in themselves. Each
soil and each crop also presents special
problems which the best farmers agree
are exceedingly difficult to master. Un
der these circumstances we will say,
for example, a fertilizer agent comes
around to take the farmer's spring or
ders. He is generally quite as unin
formed as the farmer himself. To
gether these two men, the one often
too independent to seek unbiased and
authoritative advice, and the other too
interested in making a present sale to
care about future results, these two
men plan an order for fertilizer amount
ing to $25 to $100. In just such a case
as this, one can see how easily a few
words of expert advice might save the
farmer $10 or more for if he orders and
gets exactly what he needs, it is only
thru the rarest good luck. The county
agent asked to visit the farm, or called
up at his office by phone, might, with
out any trouble or expense to the far
mer, save the man enough in fifteen
minutes to pay his increase in taxes for
the next fifteen years.
Another common objection comes
from some few of the small farmers
and pioneers. Such men oppose the
farm bureau movement because it costs
too much, they say, to farm in the way
a county agent would advise. They
say, too, that they know what ought to
be done but they can't afford to do it.
To them farm advisers are only for rich
farmers. These are the extremists in
the class of thoughtless farmers. In
the first place they assume that any
change in their farming system will in
volve an unprofitable outlay which is
not true. The most absurd part of their
argument, however, is the assumption
that they know everything necessary to
successful farming. Their training and
present policy have put them into a rut
from which there is no turning. They
are of that sort, too, who want some
thing for nothing. To such men, $2
gained as the result of an investment
of $10 makes a far lesser appeal than
$1 secured from nothing invested.
These are the men who never get be
yond the stage of small farmer. They
lack the imagination necessary to suc
cessful business. They are the stum
bling blocks always in the path of their
own progress. Fortunately their num
ber is few and their influence small.
It is the small farmer and the pioneer
who will be most helped by the county
agent. These are the ones most in
need of the very kind of help the farm
adviser can give. These are the ones
who should stand back of, rather than
oppose, the movement. The well-to-do
farmer needs help least of all; but,
because he is by nature progressive,
he has always tried to promote pro
gress thru such agencies as the farm
advisor.
Let all the farmers of Charlevoix
County as a body get behind this move
ment and give the county agent a trial,
at least. "Nothing ventured, nothing
gained," is as true in this as in any
other business. Let your Supervisor
know how you feel about this matter.
Make this your motto, "A County
Agent for Charlevoix Couffty in 1917."
County Normal Notes.
Mrs. E. J. Chellis, of Ellsworth, visit
ed the normal room Thursday morning.
Mary Boice spent the week end with
friends in Petoskey. '
Florence Maddaugh taughf the eighth
grade in the Central School Tuesday
and Wednesday, Mr. Pierce being out
or the city on business.
On Thursday morning the normal
class had the privilege of listening to a
talk by President Crooks, of Alma
College, in . the high school assembly
room. He spoke in a very interesting
way on the ability of youth to erow
into efficient manhood and womanhood.
Two members of the normal class.
Hazel Richardson and Catherine La-
Londe, gave a dialog at the meeting of
the Womans Christian Temperance
Union Friday afternoon.
The class has finished their study of
United States Government and are
taking up Michigan government
It is not at all difficult for a man to
have the patience of Job if the boils
are on his neighbor.
Women will never be paid as much
for lecturing as men, because they do
too much of it for nothing.
