BSWPSB iff!,1 11 wW
K H I V H I 1 H HV I I I IV H Hp Bvk I wr l
Vol. 27 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 26, 1916 No. II V
I Charles E. Hughes
TR. HUGHES spoke in the Tabernacle on
1V1 Thursday night. Thousands of our people
I saw him in action and were deeply moved. Theie
I was no attempt at the dramatic "in his appearance
! or words. The first impression he gives is that of
t a man devoted to duty, aggressive for the right,
i as God gives him to see the right, and with that
$ order of courage in his soul which, in a cause
which he believes to be right, does not for an
s instant count or consider whether the path he
I is treading will lead up to light and glory or
R down to darkness.
j His bearing is that of a perfectly poised
j scholar, too confident of his position, too serene
S in his own self respect, to think of stooping to
any of the shallow devices which public speakers
sometimes resort to to magnify themselves per
sonally, while discussing serious questions. So
his words are all simple, but they always ring
I true, and often while he is speaking the listener
finds himself instinctively recalling those words
i that Macauley weaves into his essay on Milton:
"His words are simple, but as we read all the
burial places of memory are made to give up
their dead."
r In the same way while Mr. Hughes speaks, all
at once the record of the Democratic party moves
3 like a panorama in sinister colors before us,
But there is no vindictiveness in Mr. Hughes'
I words. It is as when a trial has been concluded
J and the verdict rendered, that he takes the case
and in sorrow pronounces a pitying sentence upon
the convicted prisoner.
There is another feature about his speeches.
They are like the medicine that a physician some
times gives that has less effect when first taken
than in the succeeding days.
Another impression his speeches make is that
were Mr. Hughes to be defeated it would be a
vastly greater loss to the country than to him
self, for the country needs him vastly more than
he needs the office for which he is a candidate.
In a few days the marvelous magnetic ex
governor Glynn will be here to speak for the
Democratic party. He can take any audience by
storm, and when he shall have been here and
gone, in their enthusiasm, it is easy to believe,
the Democrats will be asking: "Did you hear
Glynn? Was it not a regular cavalry charge?"
And the answer of steady brains will be: "Did
you hear the deep-mouthed seventeen-inch gun
when Hughes spoke in the Tabernacle?"
The Thing To Do
A GOOD many Republicans are disgruntled
over the methods employed and the results
reached in their conventions.
Some of these Republicans are threatening to
scratch their tickets on election day.
There is a potent reason why this must not be;
two reasons indeed. The fir dt is local r d if tho
leaders of a party make mistakes, these must
be corrected within and not outside tho party.
But there is a higher reason for unity this year.
It is a most important presidential, election year
in the United States. The foreign war now rag
ing with such heart-breaking fury, must be
stopped in the near future, if for no other rea-
son because of the mighty exhaustion wlfich it is
producing. When that time comes, a sort of sul
len, unreasoning wrath will possess the ex-belligerents
and they will be hard to get along with
peacably. The steadiest possible brain should be
at the helm to steer the ship of state when that
time comes. Then the military preparedness of
which we have heard so much of late must be
supplemented with as effective preparedness to
meet home needs as tho effort now is to prepare
to meet aggressive foes from without. Indeed, this
need is the more important, for while the prospect
of any foreign f .king war upon us from with
out is most rem' he certainty of having to face
conflicting honic l ditions, grows more and more
apparent every day. The present administration
has shown not only its incapacity to anticipate
such -a situation, but its determination not to
adopt any means to meet such a situation should
it come. Hence the great struggle this year
on the part of Republicans must be to secure a
change of administration and the experiment of
scratching certain home candidates should not be
tried, for the average voter in the booth who
tries that is lost, and he is liable to vote for men
he does not want. The Democrats will try no
experiments of that kind, but will vote the
straight Democratic ticket. The only thing that is
safe for Republicans to do is to vote their ticket
in the same way.
Had no war been sprung in Europe, by this
time the business situation in our country would
"have supplied all the argument that would have
been needed to produce the change, for while not
for a moment questioning their desire to do tho
best for the country possible, the fact remains
that one term of a Democratic administration in
each generation is all that the country can bear.
It gave us the panic of '57; it gave not only
the war of '61-'G5 but paralyzed business; it
gave such prostration of business in '93-'97 as
was never seen before in our country; for
the past three and a half years it is enough
to say that it has taken the means of earning a
living from thousands of laboring men and pro
vided no places where laboring men can find
work, save in the extra offices which it has cre
ated. The only safe thing for Republicans to do
this year is to see that their ticket is the full Re
publican ticket, and then to vote it.
National Issues
HON. CHAMP CLARK is a most effective stump
orator. He is handsome, graceful, magnetic,
and shows by all his acts a most lovable nature.
Moreover he is in many ways a brilliant orator
and expert debater. Then his sense of humor is
acute and on the rostrum he can use it in a most
effective way.
But all that will only for the moment beguile
a New England audience or divert their attention
from the real issues of the present campaign.
He affects to think that Mr. Hughes cannot
make a successful campaign by arraigning Mr.
Wilson and the partybehind him for their sins of
omission and commission during the past three
and a half years,
Wei", that arraignment puts Mr. Wilson and
his friends at once upon tho defensive' arid the
km
mere assertion on their part that the party has viB
performed wonders during the past three and a "fyB
half years is no answer. 'H
What was the condition of business after tho H
assassination of the tariff and befpre tho demands ,H
of the foreign war began to cause a river of gold U
to flow this way? jail
What would be the businpss conditions, were HI
the war to stop tomorrow and all orders for war Hl
material to be recalled, and at the same time a 'Ml
tide of immigration set in from Europe? Ml
Again, why are freights doubled on all we ft
have to import and export? Tho war has been H
raging two years, where is the merchant marine
that Mr. Wilson piomised in the campaign four ' H
years ago? H
The Democracy has controlled the constructive H
and executive branches of the government. In H
what they have done can any one perceive any H
change in their ideas, since both Mr. Buchanan H
and Mr. Cleveland retired from the presidency H
and left the business of the country totally H
wrecked? H
And what about the strict economy that was H
to bo put in force at once? How much has the H
cost of living been reduced? H
What has been done to encourage closer trade H
relations with foreign countries? H
An income tax was levied early in Mr. Wil- H
son's term. Have not all its proceeds gone to pay H
the running expenses of the government? We are H
told that Mr. Wilson has avoided war with for- H
eign countries? What countries? Does any na- H
tion of Europe wish to add to its present troubles H
by a war with the Great Republic? And Mexico, H
would Champ Clark dare to go to Texas where H
nearly all the people are Democrats; though they H
do not many of them know why, and try to de- H
fend Mr. Wilson's handling of tho Mexican ques- H
tion during the past three years? I
Tho American people love peace. But when a -H
situation becomes intolerable they are not afraid I
of war. And they have a deep down belief that v H
when the bandits of a foreign country that has
only tho skeleton of a government, and the offl- H
cers of that government are but a step' removed
from the active bandits; when those bandits be- I
gin murdering and plundering citizens of the H
United States, it is time to lay down the pen, give
up dramatic poses, and test the efficacy of force. H
The ways of Providence are mysterious. Wo H
do not know what further afflictions are awaiting H
our people, and so we cannot certainly predict the H
election's result in November. H
The California Political Feud
THE hostile feeling between the old line Repub- 'H
licans and tho old line Progressives in Califor- H
nia Is unfortunate. It is liable to give, the olec-
toral votes to Mr. Wilson, but it is plain that it is I
a natural bitterness on the Republican side. Mr.
Johnson when governor was with all his lieuten-
ants most arbitrary, and in some things almost
incendiary. H
Then when tho so-called Progressives four H
years ago took the field, and gave the state to Mr.
Wilson, there were no appeals in their arguments, jl
