Tit Intelligent, common —ri.^
workingmen prefer to deal with the
problfms of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
*Ith a picture or dream**—Gom
P«ri.
Vol. 23, No. 55.
"While Serving On Supreme Bench
Upheld Injunction i&ng
Against Hatt.
GAVE SEVERAL DECISIONS
INIMICAL TO WORKMEN
^3aid Anti-Trust Law Was Applic
able to Personal Relations
I of Wage Earners.
Samuel Gompers, president of the
American Federation of Labor, wrote
Aug. 15, 1918, from the headquarters
of the organization, to Mr. Thomas H.
Nichols, of Alliance, Ohio, a letter
giving the history and connection of
Hon. Charles E. Hughes with certain
celebrated legislation, it seems that
the distinguished candidate of the Re­
publican party had quite a record.
This, too, was evidently known to the
reactionaries of his' party who made
him their party's nominee. The letter
jof Mr. Gompers is completely self-ex
jplanatory and follows:
I Aug. 15, 1916,
[Mr. Thomas H. Nichols,
636 East Main street,
Alliance, Ohio.
[Dear Sir and Brother:
Your letter of recnt date, asking for
'the record of Hon. Charles E. Hughes,
inominee of the Republican party for
president, in regard to labor matters
and particularly as to the famous
IDanbury Hatters' case, was received.
I The Danbury Hatters' case has an
[historical place in labor's struggle for
(freedom. It was in the course of the
(trial of this case that the workers of
jour country finally succeeded in se­
curing a declaration from the highest
court of the land as to the application
I of antitrust legislation to associations
(of
wage-earners.
The decision of the court in this
case involved a principle of funda
mental importance to workers. It was
the same principle involved in the
abuse of the writ of injunction which,
under the perversion of judges, who
had n* understanding of industrial
conditio and the labor of human
beings, hi. been transformed into an
agency at the service of employers
who wished to restrict the industrial
•freedom of their employes and to pre­
vent their using legitimate methods
of securing their demands and pro­
moting the|r welfare.
I' The theory upon which courts have
hMd that anti-trust legislation applied.
,tV associations of wage-earners and
I that injunctions could be used to
regulate industrial relations, which
[are personal relations, was the as
sumption that the labor of a human
jbeing was an article or a commodity
|and, therefore, property. This as­
sumption recognizes no distinction be
itween the creative labor power of a
human being which is inseparable
from his living body and the articles
which he produces.
In 1908 the supreme court of ttye
I United States rendered a decision in
jt'he Hatters' case when the initial ap
ipeal was made.
In 1914 the United States supreme
court delivered its final decision in
I the case and sustained the conten­
tions of the lawyers of the Anti-Boy
jeott association, which instigated suit
lagainst the hatters in the name of the
[D. E. Loewe company, hat manufac­
turers of Danbury, Connecticut.
Held Labor a Commodity.
The court sustained the position
that the Sherman Anti-trust law ap­
plied to the personal attributes and
normal activities of human beings. It
held to the theory that there was no
distinction between the labor power
of human beings on the one hand and
(articles or commodities on the other
j—articles or commodities which men
(sought to control and manipulate
through trusts. This decision threat
jened the very existence of voluntary
(associated effort—the effort of organ­
ized workers to carry out the normal
.purposes for which they were organ­
ized, that is, to improve standards of
life and work/ wages, hours and con­
ditions of employment. Such activ­
ities of the workers -were, by the de­
cision of the supreme court of the
•United States, regarded as liable to all
'the civil and criminal penalties under
'the anti-trust laws of the United
'states. In other words, the Sherman
I Anti-trust law, enacted to curb the
cupidity and machinations of the
Icombinations of wealthy owners, was
I to be applied to the voluntary organi­
sation of the workers instituted for
beneficent purposes and the welfare
I of human beings.
The
decision in this case, which is
known as Labor vs. Loewe, declared
I that the damages in the case were
1180,000, which, under the provisions
jof
the
Sherman Anti-trust Act,
sum of over
court
were
.^tripled, and, together with the costs
|of the
[total
case and the interest, made a
$300,000,
which the
^anbury hatters must pay D. E.
iLoewe & Co.
j|r.
Charles E. Hughes was a jus-
Jtice of
the United States supreme
at the time this decision was
rendered
and he concurred in the de­
cision.
!.. The last decision in this case, al­
though it is brief, reaffirms all that
'the
court
declared in its 1908 opinion.
There is another opinion of the
'United States supreme court, written
Iby Justice Hughes, which throws light
ljupon his attitude upon this principle,
^which is of fundamental importance
!to the workers of the country. It is
tats opinion in the case of Truax vs.
Reich, a. case which, inyolves the con­
stitutionality of the Arizona anti-alien
law. Tender that law all employers of
1
(Centtaued eft Page 2.)
Work Has Become Firmly Es­
tablished Wherever Begun
Declares Report.
/eoj
EXTENDED TO
*°V 'A10 WORKERS
Workers Lose $600,000,000 Year­
ly Through Sickness
Legislation Urged.
In the five years before the present
war not less than six European coun­
tries adopted compulsory health in­
surance for wage earners. Thus,
population totaling some 230,000,000
and including such widely different
peoples as Russians and Dutch, Brit­
ish and Roumanians, Norwegians and
Serbs legislated for health insurance
for workers in France, Sweden, Den­
mark ami Switzerland.
These striking facts are made plain
in the summer number of the Amer­
ican Labor Legislation Review, pub­
lished by the American association for
labor legislation, in which, for the
first time in this country, is presented
a health insurance map of Europe
with a carefully drafted bill for
American legislation and an elaborate
brief in its support. The map shows
that in the course of a few years this
new type of social legislation has
spread to every civilized, industrial
country in the old world, with a few
exceptions, and there are indications
that Canada will adopt a similar sys­
tem at the conclusion of the war.
Healthful Progress.
In every case where health insur­
ance has once been tried it has be­
come firmly established, its benefits
being extended to include all of the
low-paid workers. Would not Amer­
ica then also benefit by adopting the
system? To study this question, the
association, four years ago, appointed
a special national committee includ­
ing amonjr its members Miles M.
Dawson leading actuary and lawyer,
Professor Henry R. Seager of Colum­
bia University, Dr. Alexander Lam­
bert, Chairman Judicial Council of
the American Medical association,
Miss Lillian D. Wald, president of the
National Organization lor Public
Health Nursing, and Dr. Henry J.
Harris of the Library of Congress. As
'•a result of their work the committee
has drafted the model health insur­
ance .jill which, the secretary, Dr.
"John B. Andrews announces, will be
introduced into more than 20 state
legislatures next year.
Powerful arguments in support of
health insurance legislation., in Amer­
ica are assembled in the brief Vhich
quotes government reports and many
leading health and Insurance author­
ities which appear to establish the six
following points: (1) High sickness
and death rates prevail among Amer­
ican wage earners. (2) More extended
provision for medical care among
wage earners is necessary. (3) More
effective methods are needed for
meeting the wage loss due to illness.
(4) Additional efforts to.prevent sick­
ness are necessary. (5) Existing
agencies cannot meet these needs.
(6) Compulsory contributory health
insurance providing medical care and
cash benefits is an appropriate
method of securing the desired re­
sults.
Loss Through Sickness.
According to a recent bulletin of
the United States public health serv­
ice $500,000,000 a year is lost in
wages to the workers of the country
because of disablement thrpugh sick­
ness. Recent investigations show that
about 25 per cent of the population
cannot afford to pay for a private
physician. Sickness is seven times
more frequently a cause of destitution
than industrial accident, yet no Amer­
ica state has as yet legislated to in­
demnify the worker for this loss by
Insurance, or to provide him with
medical care. A death rate twice as
high among industrial workers as
among the professional classes indi­
cates that industrial conditions are
the cause of much sickness and death.
The model health insurance bill
provides for the insurance of all
workers earning less than $100 a
month by joint contributions Iropn
employers, employes and the state.
The funds are to be controled by
mutual associations, and medical care
and treatment together with cash
benefits of two-thirds of wages will
be payable for a maximum of 26
weeks in a year. A small funeral
benefit, maternity benefit and medi­
cal care for the insured worker's -fam­
ily are also included in the plan.
PROSECUTORS- NEED NO AID.
SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 24.—The
"law and order" committee of the
chamber of commerce received a cold
reception at the hands of Police
Judges Sullivan and Brady in the
cases of union pickets who were
charged with violence. In both in­
stances the assistant district attorney
assured the judges he did not ask the
"law and order" attorneys to help
him/ The court ruled:
"The assistant district attorney is
entirely competent to take care of the
duties of prosecuting, and outside in­
terference', .except by his own motion,
will not be tolerated in this court."
The pickets were discharged.
POWDER COST STARTS STRIKE
ATHENS,
Ohio, Aug. 24.—About
1,600 miners in this vicinity struck
because coal operators, increased the
price of powder 25 cents a keg, in vio­
lation of an agreement. The operators
blame the European war.
Metal Trade Bosses Make Big
Drive On Strikers But
Lose Out.
MILWAUKEE, Augi 24.--What
was intended to be a big drive of the
metal trade employers to break the
machinists' union strike was repulsed
Monday morning with disastrous re­
sults for the bosses.
The employers whose shops have
been gripped in the strike net made
another attempt to accomplish the re­
turn of 4,00 strikers. This was not
the first attempt of this character but
it ended as disastrously as the previ­
ous effort to inveigle the mechanics
to return to the shops under the
working conditions against which they
are revolting.
Bosses Lose Ground.
The bosses centered the drive at
the plant of Pawling & Harnischfeger,
Thirty-eighth and National avenues.
As was the case at the other struck
plants, the strikers were out in force
to witness the latest move of the em
plbyers.
Not only was l^uwling & Harnisch­
feger unsuccessful in inducing the re­
turn of the strikers but three me­
chanics who had remained in the
shop at'the time of the walkout, re­
fused to go. to work.
Members of the firm and overseers
were at the gate to act as a reception
committee. They even went so far .as
to catch hold of men in an attempt to
.pull them into the plant, according to
Emmett L. Adams. Ad&ms also as­
serted that private detectives were op­
erating in the crowd to accomplish
the return of men. Adams said the
profanity of the sleuths became so
marked that deputy sheriffs cau­
tioned them. The deputies also cau­
tioned the company representatives
who were attempting to pull1 men into
the plant, according to Adams.
Strikers Are Jubilant.
The failure of the employers'
scheme increased the determination
of the strikers. Every striker pledged
himself for picket duty and expressed
determination to remain out until
concessions are granted.
MORE PREPAREDNESS NEEDED
HARRISBURG, Pa., Aug. 24.—At
least 5,000,000"*acres of land in this
state are continually non-productive
because of forest fires, and Pennsyl­
vania citizens, a?e lqsing, at a mini
imum, $20,000,000. which might ..-be
realized from the-products of the soil,
according to the state's chief forest
fire warden in his first annual report.
"With repeated fires and continu­
ing erosion the absolutely barren land
is on the increase," says the report,
which estimates that 500,000 acres of
the 8,000,000 acres of forest land in
the state is damaged by fire annually.
The state loses $1,000,000 a year di­
rectly from fires in the woods.
TAILORS GET BETTERMENTS.
SPRINGFIELD, 111., Aug. 24.—
Journeymen Tailors' union is improv­
ing the conditions of repair men em­
ployed by clothing houses In this city.
SEATTLE Wash., Aug. 24.—Bush
elmen employed in the clothing stores
in this city have organized «T branch
of Journeymen Tailors' union No. 71.
More legislation favorable to labor has been adopted
"by the Wilson administration than during all of the
sixteen years of Republican control. The attitude of
the present administration towards organized labor .is
in striking contrast with that of the party of Quay, Pen­
rose, Cannon and Taft.
It has been charged that the political policy of the
American Federation of Labor was ineffective that
President Gompers had "worn out his knee pads in beg­
ging Congress to do justice to his fellow workers." This
was the phrase used in the hearings before the house
committee at the time the Mulball revelations were
made.
Enemies of that "grand old man" have attempted to
ridicule his efforts and belittle his achievements.
The Labor World will have more to say in this con­
nection in future issues. We will show to our readers
that legislative measures which have been advocated by
the American trade union movement for years have
just been realised during the past four years of Wood
row Wilson's administration. That if Mr. Gompers, or
anyone else, wore out his knee pads in begging Con­
gress to do justice to the workingmen of Ameriea, that
he wore them out while begging for a morsel from the
Republican party, the party of Quay and of Penrose
of Cannon and of Taft.
But Mr. Wilson has other things to his credit. He
has been a fearless champion of the people's rights and
has done things no other president dared to do in the
interest of fundamental Democracy.
We have been taught to look uppn the courts of
this country as something sacred something to be ad­
mired and revpred, but which we Bhould not, under
any circumstances, interfere with. Custom taught us
to believe that only a class of lawyers with a certain
mental twist were to be placed on that more or less
honorable bench, the United States Supreme Court
New fangled ideas" and -men with modern views on
economics were not to be considered in the filling of
vacancies in that sacred domain.
When President Wilson appointed Louis Bran­
deis to a vacancy on the bench of the Supreme Court
of the United States, a supreme and sovereign howl
ITOB SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC REFORM AND POLITICAL PROGRESS.
DULUTH AND SUPERIOR, AUGUST 26,1916.
INST
E
Increased School Faculties Will
Be Provided For Next
Year.
NEARLY ALL STATES
ARE WORKING WITH U. S.
Cost of Such Study Courses
Small Compared to Benefits
Received.
WASHINGTON, D. C., Aug. 24.—
Greatly increased school ^facilities are
to be provided this fall for the in­
struction of foreign-born residents of
the United States and especially for
alien candidates for citizenship. Dur­
ing the last scholastic year the public
school authorities of approximately
650 cities and towns in 44 states of
the union were co-operating with the
bureau of naturalization of the United
States department of labor in this
branch of its educational activity. Ac­
cording to information thus far re­
ceived by the bureau, nearly 100
others have signified their intention
of joining in the movement and all
indicating now point to a most grati­
fying record for the 1916-17 school
year.
It is the desire of the bureau of
naturalization that public school night
classes be installed wherever the need
exists for the education and Amer­
icanization of foreigners. This field
of operation of the public schools is
not limited to those who have applied
for naturalization. It Is intended to
include all foreign-born residents
whose Instruction in English and
civics would, beyond question, result
not only in great personal benefit to
themselves but would be of signal ad­
vantage to the city in which they re­
side and, logically, to the nation as
well.
That the cost of the establishment
and maintenance of such schools is
relatively small as compared with the
great good accomplished, is convinc­
ingly shown by reports received from
the public school authorities who co­
operated with the bureau of naturali­
zation last year. With this in. view,
the bureau is urging the superintend­
ents of schools all over, the country to
insert in their' municipal budget fer
nest year an item providing funds to
coyer the expense of carrying on "this
public night
PEONAGE ORDINANCE FAILS.
TAMPA, Fla., Aug. 24.—Low wage
and long/ hour employers are squeal­
ing over the failure of city authorities
to enforce a law prohibiting, by heavy
licenses, the operation of labor agents.
Negroes are leaving the city and lum­
bermen and employers in the turpen­
tine industry are demanding that the
Tampa police stop the exodus. Some
unionists suggest that if men are paid
a living wage there will be no trouble
to supply the labor demand.
FIREMEN MAKE GAINS.
ROCHESTER, N. Y., Aug. 24.—Sta­
tionary Firemen's union is making
steady advances' through persistent
agitation. Its latest gain is signed
agreements with two large milling
companies.
LABOR LEGISLATION FARES WELL
DURING ADMINISTRATION OF WILSON
Long Fight JBy Labor Leaders
Won Wheit Senate Passes
Measure.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 24.—With the
passage, by the senate today of the
workmen's compensation bill for fed­
eral employes, a long hard-fpu'ght
campaign is brought to a close. The
bill has already passed the house by
vote of 286 to 3 and the President
will sign it without hesitation.
With few amendments the Kern
McGillicuddy bill is the model work­
men's compensation bill which was
drafted by the American association
for labor legislation in 1913 and intro­
duced at their request by Representa­
tive Wilson, now secretary of labor.
Nearly 100,000 letters have since been
sent out and thousands of dollars
spent by the association in campaign­
ing for this bill which had the en­
dorsement of organized labor.
Hitherto federal employes have
been in a most unenviable position.
Approximately one-quarter of them
were given some small measure of
protection by the wholly inadequate
law of 1908. The rest could not even
sue for damages when injured, be­
cause the government cannot be sued.
The new compensation law applies
to all of the 480,000 employes of the
federal government and provides
compensation during disability at the
rate of two-thirds of the wages lost.
It also provides medical attendance
and liberal death benefits. In its pro­
visions the bill is more liberal than
any state law, and has been com­
mended as an example of careful
draughtsmanship. The passage of this
bill is also significant because the
adoption of adequate compensation
standards by the federal government
cannot fail to have a beneficial effect
upon state legislation.
DOUBLE PLATOON.
FOR RANGE FIREMEN
VIRGINIA, Aug. 24.—Members of
the Virginia fire department have
presented a petition bearing the
names of 1,051 signers asking that the
two-platoon system be put into effect.
But 260 names were nefeded to call a
special election. The council has the
power ~to put the two-platoon system
into effect without calling a special
election and because of the large
number of signers, m&y-do so.
WAITERS WIN STRIKE.
ROCHESTER, N, Y., Aug. 24.——Or­
ganized waiters and cooks won their
strike against the larger hotels in this
city and nearby summer resorts. Bet­
ter working conditions and higher
wages have been secured. President
Flore, of the international union, to­
gether with Buffalo and Cleveland
union officials, assisted the strikers,
who were told that solidarity made
union shop agreements possible in
these two lake cities.
WILL URGE NEW LEGISLATION
NORFOLK. Va., Aug. 24.—At a
meeting of the executive board of the
Virginia Federation of Labor the fol­
lowing legislative program was agreed
to:
went up from the national, state district and cross­
road's headquarters of the powers that be and prey.
Brandeis was an economist with 1916 ideas, a soldier
of the common good. That was really all there was
wrong with Brandeis' appointment. Then, again,
Brandeis had a lot of new ideas about courts and the
way they should be run.
The interests that had been feeding in the public
crib didn't like it at all, but their howls made no dif­
ference to Wilson. Brandeis is a justice of the Su­
preme Court of the United States today.
Then there came another vacancy, necessitating an
additional appointment and this time Wilson appointed
John Hessin Clarke to succeed Charles E. Hughes.
.Judge Clarke, like Louis D. Brandeis, had been a
successful corporation lawyer whose practice "served
only to quicken his sympathies and activities for the
cause of political and social justice."
Judge Clarke is a radical, not as radical as Brandeis,
but he is described as a near-radical.
Three events of his judicial career are significant,
'rom *.he standpoint of the workingmen and the believer
in fundamental democracy, according to a writer in the
New York -Call.
First—He ordered the car shops of the Wheeling
and Lake Erie railroad at Brewster, O., reopened when
the. road's receiver closed them to cut expenses. This
saved a town's wage earners their jobs.
Secondly—He advocated, teaching aliens American
citizenship, and sought to make an impressive ceremony
of a. foreigner's induction into the privilege and duties
of a citizen of the .United States,
Thirdly—In & preparedness address in Cleveland he
declared preparedness must start with the working
men. "If we expect labor to fight our nation's battles
we must give labor a nation worth fighting for," said
Clarke.
With Clarke and Brandeis as members of the Su­
preme Court, there is still hope for that institution. It
may yet take its place as a useful wing of the Govern­
ment and be of some benefit to the people who must
tolerate it even though they had nothing to say about
its coming into being
Theworjd do movet
President Wilson Attempts
Find Common Ground for
Railway Factions.
GIGANTIC PROBLEM ON
HAND SAYS RAIL HEAD
Most of Executives Now Believe
Shorter Hours Must Be
Conceded.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 24.—In an­
other effort to aid the presidents of
the country's railroads to find some
way in which to accept an eight-hour
day for their trainmen and avert the
threatened strike, President Wilson
tonight conferred for an hour and a
half with Presidents Hale Holden of
the Burlington, Daniel Wlllarl of the
Baltimore & Ohio, e,nd R. S. Lovett
of the Union Pacific.
Neither "White House officials nor
the presidents would 'discuss the con­
ference. It was said on authority,
however, that the v.hree executives
went to the White House to receive an
answer to the suggestion they made to
Mr. Wilson last night that he give
them more specific information as to
how the railroads may get the addi­
tional revenue necessary to take care
of the greater payrolls that will come
with the eight-hour day.
Indorse President.
Earlier in the day President Wilson
discussed the railroad situation at
length with Senator Newlands and
Representative Adamson, chairman
of the two committees in congress in
charge of legislation affecting inter­
state commerce. Their visit was the
consequence of that of the railroad
men last night. The two chairmen
are said to have agreed that the
President's position in the present sit­
uation was right, and to have said
that every effort could be expected in
congress to put through any legisla­
tion which might help solve the pres­
ent difficulty and pro ide for the fu­
ture.
One of the means for recouping
suggested by the President to the rail­
roads in his public outline of his posi­
tion was through *n increase in
freight rates. It was pointed out to­
night that the President cannot di­
rectly. ask the interstate commerce
commission togrant increases to the
railroads. Congress, ^however, might
pass~a r^sblufton directing *the~cOM
mission in view of what it considers
an unprecedrited situation to grant
higher rates.
Congress Might Act.
Congress also might pass a resolu­
tion directing the commission to in­
vestigate all matters involved in the
present controversy, and the whole
subject of the relations of railroads
and their employes. One result ex^
pected from today's conference is an
early effort to pass the bill introduced
several months ago to increase the
commission's membership from seven
to nine.
Holden's Statement.
At the conclusion of their confer­
ence tonight with the ptegidents and
managers, Hale Holden, president of
the Burlington and a member of the
committee of eight, gave out the fol­
lowing statement:
"The railroad executives, who have
met at the. request of President Wil­
son, are proceeding as rapidly as
practicable with their work. It must
be understood, however, the problem
with which these men are wrestling Is
the most important and gigantic ever
presented to any body of men in the
industrial history of the country.
"They cannot therefore, consis­
tently with their duty to their se­
curity holders, their employes, or^the
public, reach a final conclusion re­
garding what action they should take
without much discussion, study and
thought. These deliberations partici­
pated in by practically 100 men sud­
denly called together from "all parts
of the United States require time.
Dnty to Public.
"If our deliberations seem to pro­
ceed slowly it is due to the facts that
I have mentioned. For us to act
hastily Would be a betrayal of the
great responsibility we owe to all the
parties concerned, and most of all the
public."
As the conferences continued today
it becamq, more evident that the prin­
cipal difficulty of the situation is to
work out a plan of action acceptable
to all the railroads. Many suggestions
have come from the 60 or moire presi­
dents here and have been laid before
the managers. In every Instance they
have been rejected as impractical and
the executives take the position that
no plan which the managers do not
declare sound can be' taken to the
White House as the basis for settle­
ment.
Must Concede Eight Hoars.
It is well understood that most of
the executives now are convinced that
the eight-hour day in some form
must be conceded and that they can­
not expect President Wilson torecede
The working class movement to
be moat effective moat be conducted
by^the workers themselves in the tn
Llterest of the workers. It will not
|1W vniV* 't4 dominated by the so-called in­
tellectuals or bnttenkin^-Gompen.
SOCIETY
to
TWO CENTS.
Makes Public Reply to Illinois
Solon Who Attacked Labor
Chief in The Senate.
ASSERTS ASSAULT WAS
MADE OUT OF MALICE
Evident He Wanted To Strike At
Labor Movement And Used
Gompers To Do It With.
ORANGE, N. J., Aug. 24.—Samuel
Gompers, president of the American
Federation of Labor, speaking Mon­
day before the thirty-eight annual
convention of the-New Jersey Federa­
tion of Labor, answered the attack
made on him in the United States sen­
ate recently by Senator Sherman. It
was Mr. Gompers' first public reply
and he concluded by promising that
the senator would have further rea­
son to consider him a "public
nuisance."
Mr. Gompers said he was not "tem­
porary head of the labor federation,"
as Senator Shermon is reported to
have called him, but that he had been
its president for 32 years. Of funds
raised in behalf of the Los Angeles
dynamiters, the labor leader said:
"When they pleaded innocent we
went down in our pockets so that
they might have a fair trial. When
tl^y pleaded guilty we abandoned the
whole thing.- That's the extent of
our wrong doing."
Resolutions expressing confidence in
the integrity and purpose of Presi­
dent Gompers in his leadership of.
the federation were adopted by the
convention.
Mr. Gompers also made public the
contents of a letter he addressed tcj
^Senator Sherman as answer in part
to the attack the senator made upon
labors chieftan, and accepting the
challenge of Mr. Sherman to meet him
in Illinois and debate the questions
brought out in the attack. This is
Mr. Gompers' reply to Senator Sher­
man:
"A few days' ago, among a num­
ber of things that you took occasion
to discuss in addressing the United
States senate when the Merchant
Marine bill was under consideration,
you made a violent attack upon me
personally.
"I
shall
not
answer
undertake here to
to your
itfe
your
1
It became evident tonight that most
of the railroad executives have come
to believe that there can be only one
way of preventing a strike, and that
Is by accepting* the eight-hour day
plan. The chief effort in their own
conferences today was to find some
scheme by which an eight-hour day
may be put in operation on all the
railroads at the least added expense.
Many suggestions along this line have
been made by the. presidents, but no
one of them has proved feasible when
submitted to the acid test of operat
Ing officials.
make
misrepresentation
of
wilful malicious,
false and
unwarrantable -accusations and in­
sinuations, they may well be left for
discussion at some other time. But
there is not
a
word I have uttered,
nor an action I have taken, but which
has been directed and approved by
the American Federation of Labor
and its rank and file. The only in­
ference of your attack, therefore, is
not upon me personally or officially,
but upon
the
policy, principles arid
activity of the A. F. of L. and the
whole body of wage earners who
have been and are striving in an
American fashion and lawful manner
to secure
a
better standard of life,
and equal rights and concepts of these
rights with every other citizen of
our Republic.
"After assuring the president of the
senate that you would not occupy the
floor so long as the last time you in­
dulged in some comments on the
shipping bill, you then, by way of ex­
plaining your position upon that bill,
declared "Mr. Gompers is a public
nuisance," It is a necessary infer­
ence that the portion of your re­
marks immediately following consti­
tute the grounds for your judgment.
The natural interpretation of your
various assertions is that the
political policy of the American Fed­
eration of Labor is displeasing to you.
and inevitably raises the question
whether or not you would have stig­
matized the president -of the Ameri­
can Federation of Labor as a. public
nuisance, if he had publicly endorsed
the members of the United States sen­
ate, including yourself, had you voted
in favor of excluding associations of
wage earners rrom the application of
anti-trust legislation.
"And I anv again constrained to
wonder if you would have stigmatized
me as a public" nuisance had you
found me pliant and usable in fur­
thering your political aspirations, or
if you though my personal influence,
or the influence of my office, could be
secured by offer of reward, whether
money or office.
"From both the tone and the con­
text of your remarks upon the Mer­
chant Marine bill, it is evident that
you are addressing all those who
shall vote'at the polls in the Novem­
ber election, rather than the law­
makers who constitute the United
States senate. The insinuations you
make are calculated to appeal to the
prejudiced, but they are repugnant to
honest men who have regard for the
good name of a man who for years
has constributed the best that is in
him to the ca.use of humanity.
"I have never attempted and do
not now attempt, as I have not the
power to deliver the vote of any man
or group of men. I am entrusted
with the affairs of the American la­
bor movement as guided and decided
by the rank and tile of the workers
of America.
"If the truth which I state as to
the antagonism toward labor and la­
bor's interests and the interests of
the people generally, is intolerable to
you, or to any other man, that is not
my fault. It is Impossible for 'me to
be either tyrannical or-arbitrary, for
there are no such power vested in: the
president' of tjhe American Federa
itOiatfaMHd fw s.)
