jgtmmwtmQtm "" ' -" i-'
yrvfc OWS-
for i ijii' mn wiijjffww" '""y yvw'jigwrJylpjw
iEtmtmg
Urtiger
NIGHT
NI3HT
EXTRA
-A-u.
VOL. II. 2TO. 297
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY", AUCrUfcST 20, 1910.
Corir.ioiiT, 1010, bt tux roeuo I.imiiii Conrx.sr.
price on"e osmt
!appBlwPWp3iPPmwji
ll,.vi IvAl
I
m
BULGARS PRESS
KAVALA RAID;
KILL GARRISON
Volunteers Flock to Colors
to Drive Invaders Out of
Macedonia
INTERVENTION, PREDICTED
War Moves on All Fronts
Outlined for Quick Reading
1 Balkan front Tho Bulga-
rians have attacked tho
cities of Kavala and of Drama, In
Eastern Macedonia. Greece Is
aroused by this new development In
the Balkan situation, as Kavala has
been long coveted by the Bulgara as
tho only desirable port for them on
the Aegean Sen. The Bulgnrs have
taken the fortress of Sartiln, de
fended by Greeks.
2 Western front Gorman nt-
tacks on Verdun and Cham
pagne fronts have been repulsed.
3 Caucasus front The Rus-
sians, h n v i n g recaptured
Mush, aro again advancing south
ward. 4 Eastern front The Rus-
sinn War Office announces
that tho Czar's troops have resumed
offensive operations on tho Carpa
'thlans and have captured a village
near tho Hungarian frontier.
LONDON. Aug. !G. Tho Bulgarians,
driving deeper Into oastern Macedonia, have
attacked tho Orcck port of Kavala and tho
town of Drama, both garrisoned by Greek
troops. Thus tho Issuo between Sofia and
Athens has como to a crisis.
Bulgarian troops captured tho Greek
fortress of Sartlla, putting tho ontlro gar
iHcon, Including tho commnndor, to tho
sword, says a Salonlca dispatch to tho Paris
Matin today.
Aroused by tho strugglo between tho In
vader and tho Greek garrison at Sores, the
Oiceks aro prepared to dlsputo fiercely tho
efforts to eoIzo two of their most Important
towns In Macedonia.
Kavala has long been a bono of conten
tion between tho Greek and tho Bulgar.
After tho First Balkan War Sofia con
t led that this Aegean port should bo hers
1 ause of her victory over tho Turk. But
Alliens refused to glvo It up.
Borlln and Sbfia liavo given assurances
it Athens that tho occupation of tho Maco
' donlan towns would bo moroly part of a do-fenslyo-oftolise,,
and that they would, not
be retained. This promlso, made last .May,
appeased tho Greek Government and en
abled King Contantlno to keep tho country
neutral.
But the new advanco'of the Bulgar Is
vlowed with grave suspicion. Sofia, Athens
knows, Is determined to gain Kavala as her
share of tho spoils. Onco sho wins It, she
will not relinquish It without a struggle
- VOLUNTEERS ENLIST.
Volurtecrs contlnuo to flock to the colors.
The commander at Seres, who, according
to last reports, was defying tho order of
his superiors and resisting stanchly tho
advance of tho Bulgars, has recolved many
recruits. The continued march of tho in
vader doubtless will bring many more
troops to tho Greek leaders.
Berlin recognizes tho menace In the Bul
bar advance. Dispatches from Berlin, which
6t' lack confirmation, state that tho Ger
mans have ordored the Bulgars to evacuate
Greek territory, on tho ground that a further
advance Into Macedonia will rouse the
Greeks into war on tho side of tho Entente
Allies. But the Bulgar generals appar
ently have decided to Ignore any such
orders and aro pushing on.
A dispatch from Petrograd says that offi
cial announcement was made by tho War
Office today that the Russian army recently
landed at Salonlca has joined tho Allied
armies under General Sarratl In Greek
Macedonia.
SALONICA, Aug, 26. Bulgarian forces
that have been operating cast of the Struma
Blver In the sector of Seres, have advanced
SO miles In a southeasterly direction, mean
while engaging both British and Greek
troops.
Tho Bulgar forco is made up of regu
lars belonging to the tenth division and of
ComltadJIs.
Infantry, cavalry and artillery are all
engaged In the fighting east of Lake
"Taehlno, where the Bulgarians are engaged
In a desperate effort to reach Pravlshta and
Kavala, both of which towns are held by
Greek troops.
A big area of eastern Greek Macedonia Is
being devastated. The. British have de
stroyed a number of bridges over the
Angsta river and Bulgars are leaving a
trail of desolation in their wake.
Thousands . of refugees are pouring
toward Salonlca and other coast cities,
: bringing terrible Btories of barbarities in
flicted by the Bulgarians, principally tbe
ComltadJIs (Irregulars).
Violent artillery duels continue along the
center, on both sides of the Vardar river.
On the Allies' left wing, however, where
Continued on Fai Four. Column Tour
THE WEATHER
FOREQAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
Partly cloudy tonight and Sunday; not
much change in temperature; light,
touth winds,
LENGTH OF DA.
6:22 a.m.Moon rU. . . : .
4:13 p.m.liloon oouth. JQJU a.m.
"fun rU..
f"a itu .
UtXAWAUE BIVEB T1UB CHANCES,
CHESTNUT STREET
HUh wtr . , am.lHUh wtir. I2tf5p.m.
"r waiter . 6.33 .m.lLuw vratr- ?:lP-n.
TEJIPKBATUBK AT KACHJIOUB.
TTT'ai in I lii'in" II 21 3"! 41 .8
!Sr72i 7sT Ksnar ssTsst rT
a. CHAMPION BATTER STROLLING ON CHESTNUT STREET
-l Jr tne ! J
Thl3 morning an Evening Ledger
sister, Mrs. C. C. Kyle, on the
ALLIES' SOME
DRIVE FAILURE,
VON KLDCK SAYS
Have Barely Bent Line in
Eight Weeks' Great
Offensive
SCANT GAINS,-BIG LOSSES
The Allies' great offensive on the Somme,
developing Into one of the greatest battles
in the toorld's, history, began on tho mam
Inn o Julu 1. eight weeks ago. From Gen-
'cral Alexander von Kluck, one of Germany's
greatest leaders In the. early days of the
war, who was compelled to retire because of
wounds, has been obtained the German view
of the results of the eight weeks of fighting.
Included in that part of the battle front un
der General von Kluck's command. was the
Somme district, where the allM offenst've
has been under way.
By CAUL w. ACKERMAN
STItAUSSBEna, Germany, Aug 20. In
eight weeks of tremendous effort with lavish
expenditure of human flesh and blood nnd
ammunition tho Allies not only have failed
to break tho German line on the Somme.
but have not oven badly bent It, General
... . l .na Ih.
Alexander von.ii.iucK. wno cuwiimuucu ...
German right In tho advance of August
September, 19U. to the gates of Tarls. said
today.
VIn eight weeks of fighting they have
gained a few kilometers at terrible losses,"
said the German general. "The English
havo accomplished virtually nothing. They
have only exposed themselves to our
counter-attack, which "Will certainly come."
We were seated' In the Bmoklng room
of Wllkendorf castle, near Straussberg,
Before us was a map of the Somme battle
line. General von Kluclc first explained
the positions held by his army when he
was In command on this front before he
was wounded. The territory the Allies
are now trying to break through Is the
same ground across which von Kluck "Hur
ried with his army during the first ad
vance Into France In the rail or ish,
After 22 months of fighting the battle
line at this point shows llltle change, ex
cept that the Germans have been pushed
back a few kilometers. i
"The English losses on the Somme have
Continued en Pace Four, Column Tuo
EXPLORER'S SHIP WRECKED '
OFF BERING SEA ISLAND
Government Notified by Wireless No
' Lives Lost
SEATTLE, Aug. 28. The schooner Great
Bear, on which John Borden, millionaire
Chicago sportsman and explorer, and Cap
tain Louis Lane, of Seattle, set out a few
weeks ago on an Arctla expedition, was
sunk In the Bering Serf on August 10. ac
cording to wireless .messages received, here
today. All on board were saved.
The members of the party 'were landed
on. St. Matthew's Island August 10. They
were found by the Vnlted States coast
guard cutter McCulloch, which started
from here several days ago to search or
the Great Bear.
The vessel was a total loss. According
to the wireless received today from the
commander ot the McCulloch, the Great
Bear was wrecneu on a. euouisrgeu rocu.
Members of the party were said to be in
good health.
photographer snapped Tris Spenker, his mother, Mrs. A. 0. Speaker, and his
right, as they were walking in Chestnut street from tho Aldine Hotel, where
the Cleveland baseball club is stopping.
HEME ZIMMERMAN TO
JOIN MORAN'S PHILS
IN THE NEAR FUTURE
Weeghman Accepts Terms for
Cub Star and No Hitch Is
Likely in Deal Stock
May Go
TINKER WANTS COOPER
v"& ?''
,
HEINIE ZIMMERMAN
By CnANDLER D. RICHTER
ST. LOUIS, Mo., Aug. 26. Manager
Moran, of the Phillies, and Owner Charles
Weeghman, of tho Chicago Cubs, made
arrangements ovor the lonfg-dlstance tele
phone last night for a trade which will
bring Heine Zimmerman, tho slugging third
baseman, to the National League cham
pions. Moran and Weeghman will meet
In Chicago on Monday to closo the deal and
there Is little chance of anything Interfering
with the transfer of the fence-breaking
Zimmerman.
The deal will be an advantageous one for
both clubs, Moron's sole object being to
bring the pennant to the Phils this season.
To do It he will be forced to part with a
couple ot players he would like to keep for
the future and a sum of money,
Moran will not state who he Is prepared
to turn over to the Cubs, but It Is likely to
be Third Baseman Milton Stock and one or
two pitchers Moran does not like to part'
with Stock, aa the latter Is younger than
Zimmerman and undoubtedly has a great
future before htm, but the Chicago owners
insist upon getting a capable inflelder In
the deal.
It la said that Manager Tinker wants
Moran to throw In Outfielder Claude Cooper,
but the Fhllly pilot will not listen to this
proposition and It may cause a hitch In the
deal,
Moran is changing Cooper's style of bat
ting, and he and the other Phllly players
are ot the opinion that the former Federal
Leaguer will be, one of the greatest out
fielders In the game In another year.
A few days ago we tipped the fans off
to the fact that Moran was In the field for
Zimmerman's .services, but dispatches from
Chicago Indicated that Owner Weeghman
had Just completed arrangements to send
the slugging Zim to another team, but the
truth of the matter is that Moran hat
had the Inside track all along, and the only
thing that can possibly block the deal now
is the refusal of President Baker, of the
Phils, to meet the Cubs' cash demand,
... - , h.j .-' "V
" -" & '! - k " ' . '
STRIKE MENACES
AS R. R. HEADS TRY
. NEW COMPROMISE
Magnates Insist on Discus
sion, Before Test, of
Eight-Hour Day
WILSON AWAITS ANSWER
WASHINGTON, Aujr. 2G. The rail
way presidents and managers com
pleted their answers to President Wil
son's proposition to avert a strike
shortly after 1 o'clock this afternoon.
They at once notified the White House
thdt they were ready to present it.
Arrangements were made immediately
for a committee to call on the President.
WASHINGTON. Aug. 26. The show
down In the fight between tho railroads and
the railroad brotherhoods seemed at hand
late this afternoon. The question of whether
tho country's record-breaking Industrial ac
tivity was to continue, or to be supplanted
by stagnation, may be determined before
night.
For hours the heads of the American
railways argued over the language In which
they should declare to tho President their
"final" Btand. They worked over and over
the paragraphs of a proposal for settlement
which they had little reason to believe the
brotherhoods would accept, but which they
desired to be an unanswerable brief of their
side of the case.
WILSON INSISTENT.
At the White House the President de
ferred meeting with the brotherhood rep
resentatives until this proposition of the
railroads had reached him. The word went
out that, regardless of the belief of the
railroad presidents In the finality of their
own action, tho President was not prepared
to allow the negotiations to drop. He
would Insist on continuing efforts to pre
vent the break. It was said.
'If the proposal forecast by the railroads
Is made," an Admlnlstrat.sn official close
to the President said, "the situation Is
bad but It is not final."
The President spent some time today with
Secretary of the Interior Lane, who be
cause of his long service on the Interbtate
Commerce Commission has been one of the
President's most important advisers In the
railroad situation. Lane declined to dlscusa
the matter when he left the White House.
Senator Newlands, chairman of the Inter
state Commerce Commission, also called at
the White House. He left a written com-.
munlcatlon. but Hs contents were kept
secret.
TRAINMEN IMPATIENT.
The railroad brotherhood's 640 represent
atives held an hour's session, discussing
various phases ot the Issue and "killing
time," Afterward many of them paid their
hotel bills and gave up their rooms. They
believed It would be possible to leave the
city tonight. None of the brotherhood
presidents, however, would express such a
belief.
The situation was as follows:
The railway presidents and managers
were in secret session n the Wlllard
Hotel They had agreed to reject the
President's demands that they give the
"Big Four" brotherhood employes an
CeatlsutJ a Paso Four. Ctluoc On
QUICK NEWS
WILSON SUDDENLY VISITS
CAPITOL; CALLS SENATORS
WASHINGTON, Aug. 20. President Wilson arrived nt tho Cap
itol nt 3:33 y. m. without ndvntico notice of his Intention to call on
Congress. Tho President went immediately to tho "President's room"
off tho Senate chamber. Before he received word that tho railway
executives were ready to report to him ho had ordered Ills car nnd
left tho White. House. Ho sent at onco for Senator Newlands, chair
man of the Seimto Interstate Commerce Committee, and Senator Kern,
'Democratic floor leader.
INFANTILE PARALYSIS SPREADS IN DEL'AWARE COUNTY
CHESTER, Tn., Aup;. SO. Infantile paralysis is slowly spread
ing in Delaware County, another death occurring today. The latest
victim is James, the 4-yenr-old son of Frederick lynch, of Trainer.
This makes tho fourth death in 10 cases, which is a remarkably high
death rate. All of these cases have developed wlth'ln the last thrco
weeks.
WORKHOUSE PRISONERS HEROICALLY FIGHT EIRE
WASHINGTON, Aug. 20. Eighty singed and weary prisoners
of tho workhouse at Occoquan,0Vn., are heroes today following tho
part they played last night in extinguishing a fire that swept tho.
little village. Tho prisoners were released and under the leadership
of Ralph Whittakor, tho son of tho prison superintendent, kept tho
flames at bay until, the arrival of flro-fightlng apparatus from Alex
andria, Va., 20 miles away.
NAMES RELIEF DAYS FOR WAR SUFFERERS
WASHINGTON, Aug. 20. President Wilson today designated
Saturday and Sunday, October 21 nnd 22, ns dnys for collecting funda
throughout tho country for relief of tho war sufferers of Syria and
Armenia. November 21 wjis designated toy a similar purpose for re
lief of Lithuanians. Congress recently passed resolutions. asking the
President to designate some days for tho purpose.
. '' " .-' "
. v ; '
ARCHBISHOP SPALpING,'S BODY TO LIE IN. STATE -
PEORIA, Aug. 20. Tho body of Archbishop' John 'Lancaster
Spalding, who died late.yesto'rday, will lie in stato in St.-Maryfs
.Cathedral until the funeral next Tuesday morning. Solemn pontifical
requiem mass will bo celebrated by Bishop -. M. Dunno Monday
morning.
BOSTON AND MAINE RECEIVERSHIP FIGHT
BOSTON, Aug. 20. The Boston nnd Maine receivership fight will
como into open court next Tuesday. Federal Judge Putnam gave
order of notice today on the petition filed by Boyd B. Jones, ns
counsel for tho Inter-Continental Rubber Company of New York, for
the appointment of n receiver for the railroad. The order is return
able August 20. -
GIRLS SENT TO MANY PLACES BY VICE TRUST
NEW YORK, Aug. 20. Information to the effect that girls have
been shipped from New York to many parts of the world by the
so-called vice trust was received today by the district attorney's of
fice. Reports of missing girls supposed to have fallen into the hands
of white slave agents continue to pour into the district attorney's
office.
BURNS TO DEATH IN HOUSEBOAT AT CAPE MAY
CAPE MAY. N. J., Aug. 26. Richard T. Hill was burned to death In his house
boat In Shelter Haven Basin this morning shortly before 5 o'clock. Ho was of middle
age, single and lived alone. The flro was not discovered until tho Interior of the
boat was ablaze. Hill was u builder and one of tho organizers of the volunteer fire
company and its first chief.
KANSAS REDUCES CRUDE OIL 5 CENTS
INDEPENDENCE. Kan., Aug. 26. Crude oil was reduced 5 cents today and Is
now quoted at 90 cents per barrel.
THOUSAND CITY FIREMEN DEMAND 12 HOURS OFF DUTY
Fire,' Chief Jlurphy has received demands from more than 1000 members of
the department asking for 12 hours off duty, The demands will be threshed out at
a meeting next Monday nt the flrehouse at Tenth and Brown streets. Firemen under
the present system are almost always subject to call of the gong, and many com
plain tiiey are strangers to their own families.
SHIPMENT OF TOBACCO AND SOAP FOR STATE GUARDS
Some time today there will be shipped to the Pennsylvania soldiers on the Mex
ican border 15,000 two-ounce packages of tobacco, 5000 cigars and 1200 cakes of soap.
They have been purchasd from the Soldiers' Tobacco Fund. Next Monday 1000
collection boxes will be placed around town so that this fund can be replenished.
THEATRICAL AND MUS.ICAI AGENTS MUST PAY LICENSE
The Department of Labor ana Industry from now on will make theatrical and
muslca. booking agents pay a license fee. Heretofore a license has not been
collected from these men. The department has started a crusade against those
who have been violating the law by not paying a fee.
i ii ii " in i .I
PHILADELPHIA SHIP, HIT BY BRITISH, DAMAGED
LONDON. Aug. 26. The American schooners Edith S. Cummins, oi Philadel
phia, which, arrived ut Fishguard on August 21 front New Tort was damaged in
a, collision with the British steamship ChUwlcU off th. SmaU Rock at the entrance
to S? George"? Channel
HOLD-UP CLUE
NEW TRAIL IN
PARK MURDER
Motorist Gang Accosted on
Fatal Night Found by
Evening Ledger
BOLAND'S WORDS USED
MEYER COSSOY
Manufacturer, found by Evening
Ledger, whoso auto party was ac
costed by a group of youths in
park shortly before Edward Bo
land was shot dead.
Through Information which has been ob
tained by tho Kvenino Luoann, tho police
may bo shown tho way to unravel Immedi
ately tho mystery of tho murder of Edward
Doland In Hairpin Turn of Nclll drive,
Falrmount l'arlc, Tuesday night.
Another motorist, tho Evcnwo Ledoeu
has learned, was Btoppcd by seven young
men at tho spot where Boland was killed
.20 minutes before tho murder, and one of
them said to the motorists
"Vour lights aro out; you'd better light
up or, you'll get pinched" mo name words
used, by "Boland to the ittotorrat who Bhot
and .hilled him.
JviL.-. -WOULD "HAVE "SHOT.
' And tho motorist; who was stopped by
tho gang'i 20 . minutes before Boland met
his dcali said: (
"If I had lian a gun when they stopped
me, I would have shot, too."
This other motorist Is Moy.cr Cossoy, a
manufacturer of cabinets and ofllce par
titions at 210 and 242 Cherry street. He
thought, ho said, that tho men who stopped
him wcro highwaymen. With his wife,
Mrs. Mary Cossoy; their two daughters,
Hilda nnd Ileba: a eon,. Herman, and a
friend, Simon Ycllln. 3125 Montgomery ave
nue, ho was motoring In Falrmount Park
Tuesday night. Their experience with the
gang In Hairpin Turn will be told to the
police today.
The pqllee will also learn from' Samuel
S. Sacks, custom tailor, of 655 North 55th
street, who resides at 1S31 Spruce Btreet.
of a. similar encounter with a gang In Fair
mount park, a half mile from the place of
the murder, within the same hour ot night
the murder occurred. The gang, .he' said,
pursued the same tactics as when Boland
was shot.
MOTORIST SAW nUSE.
Mr. Cossoy said that the lights of hli
automobile were burning when the young
men attempted to stop the car, Wjien the
gang leader stepped from the roadside di
rectly In front of the automobile and
warned him about the lights, Cossoy said
he felt that the. move was a ruse to get
him to stop so the automobile party might
be robbed. The leader of the gang was
standing within 10 Inches of the hopd of the
automobile. Tho others were at the road
ride. .
Simon Yellln, who was taking the 'Cossoy
family out for an evening's ride, also feared
the men Intended to rob the party, He
switched the clutch Into high speed and
nearly ran over the young man In his efforts
to escape the gang.
The automobile rounded Hairpin Turn
and went for two miles before Vellln re
duced speed. The occupants believed that
they were being pursued by the fellows.
When they found they were not pursued
Yellln drove direct to the CosBoy home,
The occupants of the car were much
frightened by the appearance of the young
men, who had stopped the car. And they
were puzzled at the admonition to "light
up" when the lights of the machine -were .
on and glaring ahead down Hairpin Turn.
In fact, the lights from the automobile
Coutlnued en Pan 1'our. Column Tbrt
ii' r
MRS, JI'ADOQ, TYPHOID VICTIM,
RESTING AFTER C00D NIGHT
President's Daughter Ifas Disease in
Mild Form; Secretary Cancels
Engagements
SPRING LAKE. N- X. AUJT. 26. Mrs.
William G. McAdoo, wife ot the Secretary
of' the Treasury, and President WHon.'.
daughter, who, It was declared last eve
ning, had typhoid fever Aa 3 tnUd form,
was reported by Colonel William O. Sehanf-
fter, the Attending physician, to. be rMtlag
comfortably today, after passing a. satU
factory night
All four streets leading to the McAdoo
cottage have been roped oft and, vtl.ict
tramo s Kp away, secretary ieA4
will remain here until his wife 1 fully
covered. He canceltd .all hearings a tin
farm credit banks scheduled tor the et
fev wtks.
.o& i-- J1-r aftSfffcfi? J A
