THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Generally fair to-day and to-morrow;
not much change in temperature.
Highest temperature yesterday, 84; lowett, 6a.
Detailed weather, mall and marina reports on page 10.
IT SHINES FOK ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 361.
f-f
ONE CENT
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, AUGUST 26, 1916. OopyrtgM, 11, tV lneri PrtallM xnd PublUMng Anoctatton.
Jtrwr Cltjr and Newarlo J TWO CKNT8.
A VxvViil wit. it H -BP
PRINCE EITEL'S
TROOPS ROUTED
AT MAUREPA-S
Kivneli Hcpulsc Countt'i' At
tacks Under Kaiser's
Son; GOO Captives.
'
I
'
,
(IKKMAX CORPS D'ELITK
linU'l'll liOWY TtV fllTSil
,mr,,jii' v-,. for pCrmi0il to go to the city
I In charge of a guard. Thla tequcst being
I denied, fliigholmo went back to hla work
... . ..I 1 , .,. 11 ! In the principal keeper's house outalde
Ri'ltlSll. Ill All iNl?llt bllellUt the priaon but came buck to Miller
i
I
I
I
Fire. (Jain on Longuevnl
Flers Road.
MAKE DARING SWEEP
.... .vt.t i'tT t 11 iiriwm
I l DEIiMLLE RIDUE 1
(i.,,.,,. Ititmliiirillliotlt nf HV
UK'ill IMHIIIMI (IllieiU Ol OU
Mile Trenehes in Sonune
Seel ion Goes On.
Lo.xion, Auk. 25. Prince Eltel
Friedt Ich of Prussia, the second son of
he Kaiser, was tho German com
inander whose troops were driven out j
nf U,e outskirts of Maurepaa by French
poilti yesterday. The
e troopa were the,
I'rusHian Guards,
first division of the
ti corps d'ellte of the German army,
Pari" despatches aay. The French re
piilai'd nil their counter attacks and
hM their Kniuml tw-day.
l'lchtiiiK all last ntsht under terrible
ahi-ll tire, Hritlsh troops pu.shed for
n.ird acvcral liunilted yards mi each
-Me f the rtwd from l,itipuevul to
I'leis .1 iil li.ip.iuine, tho Jtrltlali ob
jective. The llrltlsh bent bick a coun
ter attack to-day and kept the gains.
Mnl. llrlllah Tfiritrla,
Jn this attack there was desperate
flsldliii: .ii'iii I In- northeastern outskirts
'f Id Utile Wood. Last muni 'he ller
n.iiiH ri'",tt-d Hiltlli lUsheM from the
iiiinil arnl ilirew lntu the No Man's Uand
iHincoii I ho ticncheH llglita and flarea
.is .o,in as Mie Hritlsh started to cross.
Thrjc allliiniettrd the iidviiiirlm; llrltlsh
nnd nrnle them clear targets.
Hut the HrltMi holdleis rke.l their
es to stamp out the Hairs and swept
'ti up the ridge to the lierman tienches.
They look 1 e7 prWoncis, eight of them
ofticei . Many of the (ierinans wero
miniicd by the leirlllc British artllleiy
.e that pieceded the attack.
Curing the morning the (lermans In
tirliy s,jnt several bundled men to le
'ak,' the lost iiosltlons after a boinbard
it"iii They failed utterly, and the bom-
1 1 mix nt w as oontlnued and mill goes
en.
i.rriiinua MniTrd lion n.
I. a i niiilit mo lierman counier at-1
'i - ipou the French new gains about
' as failed, also. At Hill 121. ,
' the l--ench took yesterday H
i n in a tsck was literally mowed down
n.i li ne sun tfn-. The Uermans could
v iue and get near the French llnc.. i
K '-"' ,k ,M' ""'leor.ers. making
irtrTnt ,1 m th.. lust two days HOO. They
JrTZmumiLmlo-lbe Maurepas i
u asthi v look yesterday ,
I i.. ..-rmans attacked also at I .a
ix s Jean, at the tip or the famoua
' Mlhirl salient, where there has ta-en
Me lighting lecently. lhey got to the
'lies.
The Rrnt French bombardment of the 1
..nn im. .. nrit- ...inii uui, .
erm.iti lines for upward of thirty miles small opposing craft at ranges of 20,000 , mnvr h,r P,,,CW, believed to be 1 War Office saya an electric power sta- nln)). ,llflr nrll vew of the Deutach
oiith of the southernmost extremity of yards and reports came Intermittently of HUff,rK from paralvsls, will be lnves-,tlon wan somewhat damaged and that ( -ParH nued the eves of many
'he present Somrnc fighting continues this vessel or that which had been 1 tRHted by Deputy Police Commissioner , fire touched engineering works about , ( cai,taln Bnd crew lifted their
Ihe Oerman front near Lusslgny and counted out hy Rear Admiral Knight, the (i0,iiey. Commissioner Woods said thnt which no particulars are given. The 1 h to repented arreetlngs.
lloe was shelled all day and all night 1 umpire. Whenever a ahlp Is regarded um le knew the circumstances he could 1 (lermans claim that they penetrated to ' alongside the Deutschland as
ii."n iiit''-.-niiii.v nnu 111 maces 1 sain ,
10 nave ot lescmlilancn In trenches
ami to be only strings of shell holes.
On lliiinliinf Inn I'laleaa.
Tlie rrcniii possession of Maurepas Later on In the evening the work of
anil the new British advance along the 1 Rear Admiral Helm's destroyers began
LniiEUeval-riere-Bapaume road threaten to tell, especially afler enemy ships had
Cr.mMcs still mo ii from north and south, been crippled by opposing shell tire. In
Tl.a Trench position Is particularly val- several Instances destroyers or "night
i.nhle as It secures a position on aih'iwks'' were pursuing damaged vessels
1'Ut.au dominating the region of Herman
'repeiies to the south. In the direction
of Cle ry
The Ormans to-nlght admit the loss
ef Mann pas In the official statement
tcl'iraphed here.
GIIKKK TOWN BURNED.
hnluara 'l'rlnic In Force War. la
Heller liiil.er tin) Mlop II.
I'Miis, Aug, :,,-. Bulgarian giteriltlne
've hiirmid the (lieck town of Proseulk
:i't- c,z.,g (Ireel; military stores and
. upled Hioumaya, despatches
' a Sjlonl a say. With their attack'
J' " "reek garrison at Meres this,
s 1 xpeeteil mi to In Maine Ihe (ireek
i".iili ,t war with Bulgaria may be
""'I'alia.
onstantlne has told the Kaiser
t . ... ,. , , ,
! I1" longer from forcing a declaration i
K.r iiLMtnsL tin. K,.ipr'M -.tii- mult
1,
...... .
r has ordered the Bulgars to
"I" ll 'HU ,.ntll..ll. from rirMlf unit iw
'"i ng to ari unconfirmed wireless des- Hlnce March, 1913, Mr, Itublee has
f, in Home. been serving as a member" of the com-
'''nii'eeiH urn liaaienlng to the aid of mission without compensation, the Hen-1-
beie.igunrfd CreekH In northeastern I nt having rejected the nomination be-
" lo preset vc the territory the Bui-1 riiUW the nominee waa "personally
'' so iji.t.ire, An attack upon Drama nbnoxlous" to Senntor n.tlllnger of New
.i..-e.io se.uiori in nuvniii, 111
II, '.', K ', 'i' . .... T'. if. .
.,. . . .
' '!.! after the second Balkan war. They
re bdvanclng toward Kavala now, but
1 . -.
ine rrcni, vlir Office saya officially to-
' IK
luut Kavala and Drama have not
.-.l l.ijiin iittacked.
In K'al fenr thi.t Rumania as well
tii ecu, is about to Join the Allies,
' ie Aujtrlana ore Intrenching pnd put
' 'g no wiui entanglements at Orsova,
lluiig irl in town on the Danube neai
1 Itu . anion iMTTdcr. Two Oerman
S'li.rali and staff officers are at Orsova
l' mrptct the defences against a Itu-
Contlniied on Hscond I'agt.
TRVSTY.FATHERDYING,
"Oldies" of Sing Sing, Kcurcd
He Couldn't Stand Tempta- ,
lion to Run Away.
Ohkini.no, Aug;. ':5. Whm the group
or trusties who have been tiltowed to
Pm out of the front door of Sing Sin ,
prison for the past few days were beltiK
checked by the keeper atntloned there i
this morning. It was noticed that Doml-
nick Otighelmo, batter known as "Olg-
gies.-- wa not among- tliem.
ps. was not amain them.
An Investigation revealed that Oualiel- '
mo's father being critically til In New i
York, the nrlaoner had naked Snenccr
Miller, Warden Osborne's aecretury,
.iptun 111 ivss man an nour nun mia
statement :
"Mr. Miller, t want to be locked up.
1 don't want to go Into the prlijpn yard.
1 alinply cannot stand It. The tempta-
tlon la too much for me. Im afraid
I'll break away."
So Oughclmo went back to hla cell
where he remained until thla morning,
hla father meanwhile having died.
i.ugneinio la a member of the Mutual
Welfare league, plays In Tom Brown's
, Aurora nana a nil la pucner in tne
j league's baseball team.
Because or tne overcrowded condition
of King Hmg thirty-eight prisoners were
transferred from that Inatltutlon to
Comatock to-day. The group Included
William V. Cleary, the former Have-
I straw town clerk, who la serving a
term for misappropriation of funds.
NEW YORK MENACED
IN NAVAL WAR GAME
pjfjpe RHttleshipS Fiirlltillff I
'
ror riaee 10 Lanu
Near Citj.
WasiiinctoN, Aug. :: The decisive
battle of the great naval war game Is
being fought nut to a finish to-nlght and
unless the fleets change their course the y ," while
climax will come almost w.thln s.ght of for ,,, ,,jnip sx (lilJ -,, w,k lf HVlr.
New York harbor. From latest reports -Ke WiUI nK,tV than 13t.
New York to-night Is In eerloua danger. Commissioner HmerMUi said the over
lh.nr., i.. tiuwiled condition which he observed
incorciii.ui. Sunda In the Kingston Avenue Hospital
Reports show the fllteen big battle- araljss ward. wheic 112 be,l held two
bhlps of Admiral Mayo'a squadion are chlldien each, tias been remedied, and all
attempting to clear the seas of opposing patients now have separate cribs. There
craft and lead the transports to a safe art- now 36 vm-aiu-lee In the various
. ... i,...- hoapitula, and as eh Idren are be ng dis
tending near the metropolis wherever Pvor. ,lay lcro , (lf
they can get within reasonable distance vongisted condltlnns. Seventeen box
of the shore. ' and glrlt left hohpltalM yesterday as
Covered by the swerful gunttie of cured, althougli many must wear braces,
their naval escort, the transports up to The fund fr brace for recovered par-
late hour had escaped unscathed. Dut I
Knur Admiral Helm, on the Rhode
lstninl. in command of the defending '
naval forces, or "Blue" licet, la counting
on night attncKs nv nis acroyers ann
the wirk of his submarines to repulse
and destroy the enemy.
1
"Iteil" Fleet llattllllK - Shore.
The "enemy" Fcouts of the "Red" licet lal Is earing for l.'H I children, and rit, ,he vVnr Otnce reported. Almost
weie phked up by the defending naval more are being brought In daily Twelvo .,)) ,n. casualties oceuried In the Im
forces at It o'clock this ui.ynlng about other hospitals In Manhattan aie caring don suburbs, where one Heppelln dropped
120 mlle from shore on a direct line
from Bamegat Inlet. Simultaneously
there appeared a flotilla of destroyers, to
Ithe north and powerful cruisers to the
rUUUI Cl.ll erKUlh lownio r.iunj nun,
Wireless messages were at once
flashed to Rear Admiral Helm, who
ordered his scouts to keep clear of tho
enemy, but follow ' his movements.
Meanwhile all the available forces of
Rear Admiral Helm were ordered to con-
verge to a point selected for the first
serious attemptn to check the attack.
The plan followed was to strike the first
blows after dark, at which time the at-
tacking fleet would be fairly close oft j
shore.
Intercepted messages flashing hack
and forth to-night told the Navy Depart-
merit of the first phases of the struggle. I
rne iweive hh.ii ai."!' lunuuiiiai
attacklnx fleet were soon riddling thn
as naviiiK i""co u L.,.i....i,niuii
she leaves the scene of battle and returns
to her Krt.
Nome Vessels "Danianed."
of the attacking squadron which had fat
len out of line.
Intercepted messages became so nu-
eroua aa time went on that it was prac-
inernua aa time went on that it was prac
tically Impossible to figure out the result
on tho spot chart at the bureau of opera
tions at the Navy Department. The re
sult depended on the continued ability of
tbenl acklng fleet to keep the ';r; an(l two ti-ttH In the StHto out-iielf of , c,,jrt, (.n : Injured seriously. 3 men, 4 ,,, wHU warm admiration."
hut lb s operation ha become so dl llctilt v V,nt city were repoi ted yesterday w,"n, , injured slightly, s men. 7 i.hmnnn referred to the fact tlmt the
that the decls on still remains In doubt. o sut(( , .,urlm.nt f Health. Of womeu. 3 children. In nddltlon, 1 sol-, irllt,rhland travelled K.200 mlhs below
Even should the Red fleet dash by' fi. fron Lo1 ,1111( seriously and 14 were slightly ani, tc,ult, ,he English fleet.
thevluittleslllps of the "Blue' squadrons . , , 5 , , ,, rm. 1 n,ure(, ))y broken glass. 1
Admiral Jtayo win sun nave 10 meet an
Inner guard nf aubm.trlne.s massed at
three main bases between Cape Hntteras
and Kastpori. e. ine.r eaaci locuuon
Is not known.
sjrTTiinN STANDS BY RUBLEE.
, will Make Another llrresa Ap
pnlnftnrut lo Trade Board.
vv.01,,m,,ton Aug. 25. President
:",.. Med In keen (lenr. I,,li.
lee on the Federal Trade Commission
'V making another recess appointment
' """" ' "..a'"" "'"" ir ..11.1 iuir-
now the fight before the Senate In Dc
cember for Mr. Riiniee s confirmation.
iMmnslilre. inc iceouoilcan iciiuer.
' . ...
r' .J" 5ne? H.PVPrJwPl"K"
. - -..
nIr,' lo etRy.
GERMANY GETS 1500,000,000.
. A thirteen-year-old girl, Edith E. War
Mnalclpallllea Raise Money for He- , u-ranklln avenue. Brooklyn, i
lef of doldlers' Kaaillles.
BkitLtN (by wireless to Sayvllle). Aug.
2.1. The amount raised by lieimnn '" i
" ',...i.i.. ..ll.l nt i.ni!llf of anl.f
dlera lias reached about J.100,000,000.
The Federal Treasury will turn over
tn the municipalities at a later date
about 1125,000.001.
pRST OF EPIDEMIC
)(.(.,.(,HSP of 9 Deaths and 25
rns,.s Fr(,m Preceding
Day Reported.
Q' KAXTINE -LESS RKHI)
'
vn L'noi. V.,. r-.,..vn.l,. I.,
. ' iuiii niiuu in
IlogpHnls Funds Needed
for Uraces.
,, ,
Health CommUatoner Gmeraon salil
yesterdny that as a result of hla obser-1
vatlons of the general downward trend
of th m.mi,.r ,.f n( iMfan.n.
of the number of cases of Infantile J
paralysis each day during the last two
weeks he was convinced that the worit
of the epidemic Is over.
The Health Department head made
the announcement after reporting that 1
the figures for yesterday were ninety !
four new caaea and twenty-two deaths, a
decr.a.. nf .,.. .n,i . '
- ... - j
dcatha from the preceding day. This
drop was not unexpected by the health 1
officials. Probably there will beTilgher
reports In the remaining daya of AiiR'Mt
and early in September, but the general
trend shows that the epidemic In New
York city Is on the w.n.
Of all the boroughs -Manhattan with
forty-three new cates yesterday and
The llronx with fourteen have shown
th- ,1.Mln m ml. r .l''"u i"r recepuon io ue given lor
, " " "
recently. Tho lower totals are due In I
. 1 . .1,. .1 ...... 1.. t
ft" u L u.l ) ,u tile UlUli 111 111
.Brooklyn and Hlchmond. wheVe the epl-1
a. . , I
there wero eleven new cases yesterday
and In Hlchmond two. .
anu in Kicnmona two.
The number of deaths In Manhat!
rose from twelve on Thursday to foi
an
four
teen yesteiday, and there was one death
In The Bronx, aa compared with none an
the day before. In neither Queens nor
Hlchmond were uny deaths reported.
There were only seven deaths In Brook
lyn, a drop of seven.
Fonda for timers Needed.
The aveia-ie number of cases reported '
alysls patients has now reached 17,.
3.13. 69. Commloaioner Kmenuin
nouured. At least IStS.Onn will be needed
to help the children crippled by the tils-
case.
Stuttotus l-sued dur Its; tlie day show
thst thlit-two hospitals In the live boi-
oughs are now caring for Infantile p.u-
,,jhM cuses. The Wlllaid Parker Hi.
for poliomyelitis pal lent.-. In Brooklyn j
the Kingston Avenue Hixfdtnl. with B2
patient, has the bulk of the cases, and in
Tho Itionx the Riverside Hospital has
' I'-"""".
The Zeppelins were driven on iy ami-
llrlnslna; Qnarnntlnra.
... .., ,,. . rMn
f , ,, .,, .. i..lhllc i,;a th i. "
, said yesteril'iv that the health 'au-
t,or'PI( i v irlous towns am relaxing
n.elr inmrantl'nc reeulatlons uealnst New
J..,,, Ah evidence of this con-
,tnn n1 ,ine, a circular sent out by
,ht New. prpy (ntral Railroad In
whlch thal Highland. Water
Witch. Rumson and Lnkewood. all In.
New jfTtWy are now aamlttlng children
i,-i,h ,..,in,.,.
T -,... tlmt Mr.s. Jennie Dasnolt
3c-, it ru-slxth street. Ilrooklvn. was
,,,,'i,. .,ii,mn -hn '
. action.
Tlie attention of the health authorl-
ties was attracted to the deaths of two
college girls fiom Infantile paralysis. One
was Miss Ella Boyd Kdle. 21. of
Palisade avenue. Yonkers. Her father
Is an oltlcer of the Westchester Trust
Company and treasurer of the Alexander
Smith Carpet Company. Mfca Ed.e ...
"
a Jun or at .Mount lloiyoae t oi.ege. inc
other death waa . that of Miss Helen
Burr. 17. a Wellcsley student, at Fulton-
..mi. r
I ""' ''.., .j .....,i..., .,. 11,..
, " Hospital for Deforml-
!,"H.,,",,,,?. ,' , . 1
lies Unil Jllllll L'ireancn lui iin.iMiiai a.., i lne nuiliftlii- -- ...... -, - . - ...
In caring for paralysis patients. The 1 aVe and Incendiary bombs were dropped true Americans who am not doing mam
treasuter of the hospital is Louis F. I aml It Is regretted that casualties oc-, mon service to Kngland. all Americana of
Rothschild, 1319 Madlaou avenue. I curred among the civilian population aa tm, ( re. i,efa of Waahlngton and r rank-
. a ... ....... nn.ni...iui . i.-iM.a t mi.n 3 women. 2 11.. .. 1 ihm arrival of tho Deutsch-
, , s,ute ()U,H(ie of Mti (.ty.
1
I Restrictions In VnnLers.
v....i,..m nr. of li,.,.!il, v
1 nr- ...iin... . - rilliri ..i, " . -r - 11 u.
terdav ordered children excluded fiom ,ut nn electric power station was Pllsnt
the public library and also from mov- jy damaged and engineering works were
in. ,i,.iiirt, MhnwH unit iheatres. ! n,uimi dumnucd by tire. Several
' .. . ..... ... .11........
rlliy-IOUl MCW CHUVn Ol llir iniriiri- unu I UICS OCCIIll.'o, - . . . i t . . t .
were repoorte.l to the New Jersey State roniptly extinguished by the London Transit Company met last night at L
Board of Health, making a totnl of 2.3IS ,lrP brigade, heveral persons being res- ,,, Hall, Llghty-s xth street near
since the outbreak of the epidemic.
Henry Snyder, superintendent or the
1 .'.''.. .....a.i,
' '.cno,", "... lo
.1... k..niii u-nnlil nni ha nnened until
0(,,ber 2. The Bavonne Board of Edu -
. n.,H 9f,t September 2.1 as the date
f t..c ,,B ,jr me BcnnoiN in tnui
, 'Vtv
. riehteen ounces of blood weie obtained
1 yesterday by Dr. Abraham
ibraham Zlngher at
Hospital from per -
tne wiiiarii inini ..-"i
sons who have had Infantile paralysis.
tirtf nr 111PHH was n 1 inn. woo iriiirrii
to give hla name, who returned to tho1
hospital for a second time to give bjood
....... m.1,1 j.....
is HSU
be Vave six ounces and yesterday he
In mive I IP Cllllllieii. 1.IMI11 11. up. iiki.
. ....... A.,, ,nori
1 gave eight more.
Another waa a en- ear-o,., ooy wo 0
, sab! he was jimmie iveny or n i.ignin
'.venue, and had the disease when a year
raids,
'also gave two ounces of blood. Carl
Frnnkenbusch. 18. "t 1412 Charlotte
.,'
PrlVllto
llronx. gave to ounces.
physicians are beginning lo
realise how necessary It la that the niaclng an embargo upon American ta
serum be Injected Into the stricken chll- ,e giaasware. shipments leaving the
I unned states before August 10, the c-
ConHmirO on fourth rape, I hies stated, would be accepted.
U-BOAT FEAST CEMENTS V. S.
AND GERMANY, SAYS GERARD
Ambassador Quoted as Asserting Voyage Will Have
Political Effect 100,000 Marks Contributed for
Presentation to Capt. Koenig and Crew.
1 .
Hkiii.ix, via London, Auk. 2C United of thin city for presentation to Caul.
State., Ambassador Oerard In quoted In' Koenlgj and his crew, A took la being;
,. . .... . written by Capt. Koenig describing hla
the Jfariirftcner ZrUung as saying that. V0J.S to'(he ,nM 8JM and tetutn.
... ,.
ivjnKv Ul me II1CI llii.lil. nuv,,,." -
ucuisciiiana is certainty me mini no-
portant event In a long time In the rela-
I lions between (Jermany and the United
Htafs. The Ambassador Is quoted as
n vlnp
"Americans are convinced by nothing xEW London, Conn., Aug. 25. The
o quickly ar aucceas, and the captain Clerman steamship Wlllehad, which was
and builder of thla ahlp .scored a great i interned nt Boston at the outbreak of
Political success In America for the 3er- the European war and sailed from that
m," "c',,e', T,n,c Impression made Import yesterday by way of the Cave Cod
th" "eb'hland's nrrlvnli !n Aineilcnn I Cnnat, arr ved here thla morning, hav-
watpr, lm(1 proveJ ttrong and el,durlng, iu passed Into Long Island 8ound
and now that the return voyage has been I ,horily before 9 o'clock.
made safely under probably more dim- Heavy fog held up the Wlllehad dur
cult conditions. It will be harder than tllg ,lle mgM, but the weather cleared
ever for persons who try to depreciate I at dalireak and ahe proceeded here and
Herman achievements to convince ray cume directly up the harbor to the new
countrymen
. i
saya Ambassador
Thf Interviewer
.h. XT n.,lri;i.
,..,h! ".hie. '"man S0?1' n7 "'f?
win u cunaraiuiaiory aespaicn io mw
owners of the Deutschland saying, "You
1YIV' not onl' ,lont much 'In promoting
the friendly relations between (Jermany
and America but have shown the world
anoiner illustration of the enterprise and
patriotism of Uerman merchants and
engineers.
The Deutschland 'arrived at Bremen,
her home port, at noon to-day. A wild
demonstration by the residents greeted
the essel and her crew. Many visit
ore and Oovernment otllclals have ar-
.:apt. Koenig and the crew at Bremen.
The trip of the Deutschland up the
P II' . - ... n .1 . .1 .... V. aI,...Ih.
nmn 1 1 1 r. i niu w 1 1 1 1 btircilll. Ul
the shore, and by the
'"K.of ''' whistles of the beflagged rtver
I'reparatlona for another voyage of the I
Deutachlun.l to the United States are
. 1 o' T T tin.lH ll.a l V. . I .
celved for this trip. The amount of
cargo now ready to I loaded is larger
than had been expected, the Overseas
News Agency says. i
Nuirlv Kki.OPii marks has been con-
tribute.) by a number of wealthy men
ZEPS KILL 8, MAIM '
37 IN LONDON RAID,
Bomlis' Victims Mostly Women 1
and Children: All Dead
Are Civilians.
IONnoN, Aug. 2.1. A Zeppelin laid on '
the Kngllsh east and southeast coasts
that penetrated in the outskirts of Ijn-
don last niht killed eight, seriously In-
jured seven and allghtly Injured thirty,
More than half the iiimhlps' victims were
women and children, and all the dead
nre civilians. The only soldiers hait -ere
cut hy glas.
Tin re were live nr six miMiip in me
uMn the lioui-e both explosive and In.
(-miliary bombs. The Ixindon lire bilgade
put out many fires. The (lermans are 1
tnoneht to have droped about 100
ooiiiii, .
aircraft guns, and o(T the east coast
'were attacked by British warships One
nlrslilp w-as foiced to drop all Its nomna
Into the sea. doing no damage. Over thn
Imdon "UtsklrtH a British aviator drove
" aeroplane to within machine gun
range of the Zeppelin that attacked there
and llred many shots at It. The illrlglblo
ellmbed up anil took refuge In the clouds.
,... WorUa Were lilt.
1 ",,m worh" '
The War Olllce says that little mill-
tnr- rfam.ice was done, though Rerlln
claim" batteries at Harwich and l-olke-,
stone ann snips 111 im iu.i.,ui '""
n.r Imnibarded with good results. The
1 . ......
inc i-iij. 10 ........ ......
retched the aunurna oni. .
The Matrment of the War Office says
"Fix.- or six enemy alrsl lp 1. tided
the east and southeast coasts o Kns-
land. Two or three raiders came In over
1 the eastern counties and dropped over
thirty bomlw without causing any cas-
damage Another raider a -
tempted to approun .,,.. .....
beln'.- heavily fired on by anti-aircraft
gtins was driven off to Ihe eastward
.iP......iMir ninpiesn oomos in ine
1.1... .. ...,.,.1,1.1 their ohlectlve.
nother raider succeeded In reaching
1 .... .., ,.,. .( tn.imi. where exnlo-
,
lrinrn In Pursuit.
1 '. (trlv bombs) fell
.,n nronertv or III the onen.
" 1 ..II nf v. lil,.i Wr
oll(.,
..iied from positions of danger by flrt-
mrn
men.
'"''.. ...a nn 1 1,1. nlrshln.
wire was opened on this airship,
flT' ........ u. Ii
.. i.i.u i.,u.liiiiilv utered lis course. 11
' n.Wslble that th first airship was
fl,u;m,.d by a second raider, but this
,..,nn(,i for the present ue vcrineu.
qoine of our airmen went up In pur-
,,i( nd one nlrman suci-eeded in nr-
, i the rnlder nt close range. In all
In all
.iot bombs are known to have neeu
dropped.'
. : r .. . . ..
Zeppelins n.lded the ;''"" ' "'j "
last Wednesday ami .T,5 t"'' am,
lirnpr .,. , ,,,rt,iip
hurt no one. The laa ram o. V"'"':" -
111 i'1'l" 1 '.. ; '. ..... ,
'r..::: ur t,me.l and 114 Injured.
nu iaoi."" - .- - . . . . , .
I-'- " , -renorled lA.ndon bombed
1 ""' , h w oft)(.e haM
since, but the llrlllsn war
llrlllah Kniharsro on I'. Olasa.
pittsiiUIKL Aug. 2.1. Olass manufac.
tures In the Pittsburg district were
notified to-ilay ny iiivir i.uii"in aimii,
,hat an order In council had been Issued
...
ylJ,T.KHAT) SAFE IN rUKl'
ah'lp Arrives nt Mew l.o-
don From Boston.
Plate pier, on which are storage aneoa
uf ,Me j.;astern Forwarding Company,
Ih' Am!rl"' 'nc' for ,ne "e"nan
line of submarine merchantmen.
llonorarr Degree for Koentgf.
Amstviwam, via !,ondon, Aug. 2C,
The medical faculty of the University
of Halle has conferred an honorary ie
gree on Capt. Koenig of the Oerman
submarine Deutachland for "having
broken the enemy'a blockade, thereby
enabling the Oerman medlco-chemlcal
Industry to recapture Ita world'e position
In a svere time."
Bremen's Capture Rnmore.
According to a story current among
passengers on the White Star liner Hal
... .... , . . ,u. 11..m.
-'l
. rn",.c.apAur nt5" .
" waa said, and a patrol boat took
tniny-nve or ner crew oi iiiIrv,--.r.,
Iir Ml flfrn. 1 1 1 f 1 1 II 111 LII nuuiliai IIIQ lit ' '
ver harbor. No report waa given out. In
the belief that the third Oerman cargo
Iwat. the Amerlka, might take the same
passage If unwarned. The officers of the
Baltic aald tney nau nearu uie iujuvi,
but could not verify It.
DEUTSCHLAND FLIES
U.S. FLAG AT BREMEN
Joyous Welcome Given to Sub-
marine Trader as She Ar
rives at Home Port.
II, CAIII. W. ACKF.RMAN,
Cnitri re flat Corrupvnilrnt.
Hbkukn. Auk. 25. An American flag
was flyln from the Deutschland'e mast
when the first commerce submarine to
cr0t tne Atlantic returned to her hone
mT . ... . r h
"How are oti?" I shouted In English
fronl the deck or the yacht uazene na we
approached the Deutschland.
"Very well indeed," replied
Capt,
Koenig, with a bored smile. Then, lilt-
hs hf ,eil tilt crew n ,,r
' ,,., ,-..,,,,....
cheer for the neutral, (.erman and even
... n. h.x. .
Thousands of school children were
. ,. lV, i,i,, nf the
crowded a ong the nanus or tne
singing nauotini soots. no.i i.nns, x-,
opH and other small craft sped hither
( nna thlthcr to catch a gllme of tier-
, mall. ei4 marvel.
, VVo (ft llremH aboard the Gazelle
, nI1(, iolllneyod toward Hreinei haven, in
,)( jJtaIll.e tm Deutschland nwiearcd,
I swlmmlr.g low like a duck, escorted by
i two tugs and followed by another shU
rjlr, nK the guests of honor. Including
I ... v..n,..iin iir tl,.irrprlrli mil alher
,.,.,,, hll)s whistled their a-I
int.-.
(June were fired. It was a most
, ' , ,, '
h ii iiioven uw.trii on uu.v. ci." wu. .
. ... ... .... ......t. til.. I.n.a
no acrnlcbw. The onlv evidence of her
" "".' W(n t,,e fni" that she was
I Jo ne h'B 1 k pxl,aut.
"P( . " Uremen harbor under her
S nt e,l 1 fee ,m
I '.'" w "' P"1''' ' horej a, 18 10
h 'r A 1 t"'a Mclal tug wheri ah"
M esl e ,h e. social tuj. , here he
- - ,u , . .sB00 lo
and wealthy men contrl buted -M00
a purse given to (apt. Koenig and his
crew
Addrfwalug
Capt. Koenig, President
I.ohmann of the Ocean company said :
"With sneclal Joy I repeat that all
1 1. R. T. MEN RATIFY DEMANDS.
Hundreds Unroll tn t'lllon Mnhon
l rr FlKlit for niabts. '
hnplojees of Ihe subway and elevated
....l.iny of
the Interborougli Rapid
Third avenue, and ratllled the demands
which have been sent to I res 1
siumls, read to them by I irganlzer v 111-
wi... .! lo them bv t Irganlzer Will-
" V.' 'lSw, 11 VVIilli. III. ,lli,g
Um II. r tzgernin. mine un- inrriinii
tt;1H m progress len men weru kept busy ,
,minB hundreds of applicants for ad-
mission to tne union.
piesldent W. D. Million of the Amal
uaiuated Association of Stieet and Elec
trj Hallway Employees, who was one of
m)uakers, told the men they must
light their way Just as tlie surface ear
men did. He came direct from a con-
, Terence with Samuel Onmpers. who will
sail to-day on the American liner St.
I aill Willi lli. 01 '.'il'"iJ iiuio
1 tho Amfrcal, Federation of Labor to thv
Ilrlllsh trades union congress.
Clark Keeps hlp Bill (Int.
Washinoton, Aug. 2.1. Speaker vi.led for an investigation ny tne red-'the munition piam nave piacticany
Clark citing many precedents to-day i eratlnn' executive council of (he report romvleted plans for the utilization of
rul.d'vlown au attempt of Rcpresenta-1 of the State lndusrtlal Commission on the new factories here In Iho automo
tive (Ireene of Masachusett to send a ftrlke In the paper mills a" Water- bile Industry when the munition con
tho' Administration Ship bill back to the town. tracts are filled.
Merchant Marine Committee Instead of' Resolutions also called on the execti- Mr. Pryor is tlie active head of all the
keeping It on tho Speaker's table for uc-, tlve council to prepare a set of questions Remington factmlcs, of which Marcel-
Hon when the Democrats get a quorum, for candidates for all State oftlceB cx- lus Hartley Dodge Is the president and
ti.. tan i. .i.iiini, linn. a ..i.,,. i .a,, iniriir their nnsltlon on annronrlallooH mliiclnal owner. The Thomas II. Jcr-
nr Menate amendments, and Rmresenta
lepresenta
tlve Hreene seeks tn block Its pawnne,
CONGRESS WILL END
LABORS NEXT WEEK
Democratic, Purpose Is o Ad
journ Thursday, or by Fri
day Nlpht at Lntest.
REPIIBLICAXS ACQUIESCE
Immigration .Measure and
Owen's Corrupt Practices
Bill Will Re Shelved.
Washington. Aug. The activities
ft the leaders on both sides In the Sen
ate indicate a concurrence In the Demo
cratic programme for an adjournment
of Congress before the end of next
week. The Democratic purpose la to
adjourn Thursday. If possible, but not
later than Friday night and so as to
avoid having the event Interfere with
the plans for notifying President Wilson
of his nomination on September ?. at
Shadow Lawn, N. .1.
The plan for adjournment means that
the efforts of Senator Owen to pass the
corrupt practices bill, which vrovoked
the outbreak In th Senate yesterday,
and of other Senators to put through
the Immigration bill wilt not bear fruit.
The understanding la that the Demo
cratic leaders have guaranteed enough
votes to prevent either measure passing
If the Republicans retrain from delaying
the adjournment date. ,
Representative Fltxgerald, chairman
of the Appropriations Committee, has
agreed to return from New York ajid
put through tho general deficiency bill,
the last of the general appropriations
bills, and have It before the Senate
Monday, The Republicans will Innlst
that this bill be passed before a vote la
taken on the wnr revenue measure. The
Democrats have acceded to this request
as a guarantee that no legislative "rid-,
era" will be attempted by the Demo-
crats In the closing hours of Congress.
To clear the way for adjournment i
Miiorlty Leader Kltchln sent urgent
telegrams to-day to all House absentees
asking that they return at once for .
tho final legislative drive of the session. I
The House has the shipping bill as
amended and the forthcoming revenue
bill conference report to dispose of next .
week, in no senate it s pianneo o ,. of alx children, the eldest of wnom is nccet,ti hv them , or th at th cy lie ner
lay aside the revenue bill to pass the.ony J5, ' '
deficiency appropriation bill as soon as
It gets through the House,
"When that la done." said Senator
Simmons, chairman of the Finance Com
mittee, "all general debate on the reve
nue hill will halt and It will be rushed
through. Meantime Senate amend
ments to the House bill are being In
formally considered with Ways and
Means Committee members and a final
report will be ready almost as soon
aa the bill reaches the House to bo
sent to conference.
"With the leveuue bill passed I do
not think that anything can stop ad
journment of Congress unless something
entirely unexpected should develop."
EDISON TO LEAD CAHP PARTY.
Cnmiianlona nn Trip Will llr I'ord, .
Ilorrongha nnd Firestone.
Thomas A. Flltm and a 4arty ccm- ,
prising John Burroughs, the naturalist;!
Henry I'ord and H. S. Firtone, mami
faeturiT of automobile tires, plan a
camping trip through the Adliomlack
Mountains. They wilt leave on Monday
and make the trip by automobile.
This will be Mr, Edison's flrwt vacation
without Ills family since IHlt. when the
Inventor took an automobile tour through 1
New England, but caught a eeveie cold.
Previous to that time .Mr. I'dlson and
Mr Burroughs camped out In the Ever
glades for the purjiose of making phono-.
5raph tocords. of the sonifa of birds. ,
Mr Edlfcon, who l taking It upon him- ,
self to be the official guide, Is mapping ,
out the route along the most unfre
qucnted highways to avoid attention,
The party will stay In the mountains for
several weeks, It Is expected.
U. S. TROOPS IN PLAGUE PERIL.
j Mexicans Dying or II undents 1
Many. Marvin. Pterin to Border.
Ei. Paso, Tex., Auk. 23. If a quaran
tine Is not put on at CI Paso smallpox
and tjphus fever may be Imported to
the troop camps along the border by
starving Mexicans running from the
plagues In Zacatecas. This report was
made this afternoon to den. deoige Bi,
Jr., commanding the American border
patrol at El Paso.
The information wa Niiiuuitted nv one
of the (leneral'a confldentlul agents and
la to the effect that smallpox nnd typhus
are raging In Zaeatecas city and State
on the line of the Mexican Central Rail
road south of here and that people are
dying by the score dally. Some days
as many as a hundred deaths occur.
The report said that to escape the
plagues the people are fleeing many are
starving while others, weakened by
lack of food, die from disease.
LAST "FOURTH" WAS SANEST.
So Tetanus. Nobody Hlliideil and
Only Thirty Drntha.
CmcAOO, Aug, 2r.. Results qf the ,
campaign that has been waged for year
for a sane Fourth of July are shown In
' figures made public to-day by the Amer-1
I lean Medical Association, which for;
r.i.l
1 r 1
fourteen vcais has taken a poll or ewrvi
: .1 t 1..,
Fourth of .Inly casualties. h
I Not one case of tetanus was reported
In the entire country 111 ll'lfi and not
one person was blinded by gun powder,
according to tne associaiion s siatement.
(), . ,Illrl.. ,i,.aths took place, as com-
, (, wtir 4 In 1903. the first ear
1 ..omnieto ilKurcs were oblnlned,
I '.''... " ,. , i ,t.i
PAPER MAKERS ACCUSED.
Sliite I'ederutlun of I.nltor t'rar.
Inquiry Into lndiir,
Ci.kns Falls, N, Y Aug, 2.1 Paper
manufacturers have taken nn unfair ad
vantage of the newspaper publishers, J.
T. Carey, president of the International
Brotherhood of Paper Makers, told the
State Federation of Labor nt the cln
Ing ressnni of Its annual convention to.
day.
Resolutions were adopted .ailing for
an Investigation of the scarcity and lilgh
price of pnper. Another resolution pro
- 1 for tlie M.tie i..tnnr iepiinment ana
other legislation,
SACRIFICES HIS LIFE
TO SAVE FOUR BOYS
Fulton's Neck Broken, Lad
Electrocuted and Another
Fatally Burned.
Hundreds of helpless epectators saw
John Fulton, a Union Railway Inspector,
unhesitatingly give his life yesterday In
an attempt to save four boya who had
come Into contact with one of the high
voltage feed wires In the yards of tho
New York, New Haven and Hartford
Ilallroad at 177th street and Bronx Park
avenue. Oeorge T. Itaynor, 9 years o,J. I
of 20"S Third avenue, was electrocuted.
Damaco Huao, 12. of 1S91 Bryant ave-'
nue waa fatally burned and died later
In Fordham Hospital, where tho two'
other tKiys are suffering from burns and
shock. I
The boys were playing on top of a'
string of freight cars in the railroad
yards when Itaynor touched an overhead
feed wire charged with thousands of
volts. Blue llames burst from the wire
and wrapped the boy's body. Fulton. i
who was at West Farm, .Wc about
400 feet away, ran to the Tremont ave-
nue bridge and dropped a doien feet to
the top of a string of cars below. With
out hesitation he attempted to free
Itaynor, but tha moment ho touched the
loy he was thrown by the force of the,
current from the car to the ground be-
low and his neck was broken. The Huso,
boy had also tried to help his playmate, j
but when h caught hold of the charged
body he also was thrown upon the car
and received his fatal burns.
The other boya. Carl lehninn, 10, and
his brother, 12rneat. 9. of 1025 Hast ISOtli
street, were able to scramble down from
they fainted and were taken to the hos-
pltal. The body of the Itaynor boy con-
tlntied to writhe until the feed wire.
sas-alnr beneath tho weight, was dragged
down and established a contact with the '
roof of the car.
The freight cars caught fire from the
electric arc made by the short circuit
and In a few-moments four wte nlilnze. t
When tho Fire Department arrived, the j
dremen. equipped with rubber gloves, j
broke the short circuit and put out the
flrf,
john Fulton, who gave hla life In the ,
effort to save, was the father of a fam- .
iiiiiivn in go nomo nnu prcparn lor a
I strike. Everything wan declared tn bo
WftMAN ITIT T ftllARTV1" lallnti,f, fnr il walkout whenever
IlUlUnll niLLO UUnlll Ithe committee of C40 gave the word.
CAPTAIN IN CAMP
however, and shortly afler they left the
.White House sent for three of the rall
SllOt)t8 Georgia Officer, NotOd road executives to ndvUe them of what
Insanity Expert, Accusing
Him of Wronging Her.
" - '
. .. r,. .. or r,--, r-i-0, i
Macon. n. Aug. 2S.-Capt. Kdgar . .
Spratllng of F Company. 1- If tn Regl-
ment, National Ouard of Cenrgla, who
was at one time nn In-anlty expert at
.. . . , .... i..i
Matteawan Asylum. N. 1.. was shot and
killed In his tent at the State lAoblllza-
tlon camp near here to-day by Mrs. II.
C Adams of Atlanta. At the country
Jail to-nlght, where she was held on a
charge of murder, Mrs. Adams talked
f,..w. f Hi. flimnttnir
"Dr. Spratllng was my family phy
sician," she said. "He had been our
physician for several years. He toik
advantage of me. If he had lived he
would not have defended himself, for
he had no defence tn make. The only
mlslaka that I made was that I did
t not tell my hiiliand sooner. Nobody
,,. ,,. ,,, ,ln ttlKn thev are
,n tIvmbl(. ilh have been for Several
months,
1
When nil the testimony comes out
I think that they will say that I was
Justified. My husband has wa'ked the
lloor at night, and he is marly ciazy
1 want to be left alone with my hus
band and chlldien. 1 left them in
Atlanta this morning to come lu-.c and
do what I believed to be my duty"
Mr" Adams, who is about 3" fars
of age. came fiom her home In Atlanta
to-day and went directly to fie cam
At Cipt M.iatllliii's enmp asked
the orrlcer If he was c.ipt spratllng
and on being answeted 111 the 11ttlrm.it.
tiled at him twice fi"in 1. small cadlne
1 revolver, . both simta taking ' ect
t According to Lieut. Samuel A. Kysor
'of F Company, who seized her a moment
later, MIC iiiru ovii .1. -11,- i-nm ill,
officer, "You have ruined my home;" '
ATI. ant, fit . Aug. '.'.' -".My wife was
justified In killing Spratllng, for In .
crime against her hail pieyei upon her,
mind ns a horrible nighttime and, I be. 1
II..V,. unbalanced It." said II ('. Adams.
husband of the woman now In Jail for
shooting C.ifit Spratllng
"1 did not know she was golrw to do ,
It," he said, "Hut he Is justified, If any 1
pi 1 son ever was. She told m last Frl-j
day of the reason rtiilili prompted her
.1 ... ....1 ul,.. Il,,.n Ihinhll.i! to
' . . ' '. lnotlaln , h,id Kiicceeib d In '
coinluclng her that It was of no w
i-oe II. Ill 11 iiiii i" .
., ,,, . ..,n i... ...
.1 . .1.
lanta M.ec a 1st. lie was a native of Ala
1 a;u. T-iiiiioiis ,..i , o " .,-
lain... and graduale of Hiidelherg. He
nslded In '.Sew oik for a while, and
was at one time assistant snpeilulenilent
-of Matteawan. Mts. Spratllng Is naid to
, ne a mauve 01 1 nn.-n .-!. i-.-n.uui
Fh-uher of riorldn The couple had no
1 chlldien.
Mrs Adams Is a handsomo worn in of
.via is and has three children.
ARMS PLANT FOR MOTOR CARS.1'"
' .,
IteiuliiKtou I nctorle. lo I. liter
Automobile luduatry After War.
wttii tii
MI"
RmtsjKi'oiiT. Conn.. Aug
enttanre of Samuel F. Pryor, vice-president
and general manager nf the Rem
ington Arms and Ammunition Company,
Into a commanding place In the reor
ganization of the Thomas 11. Jeffery
Company of Kenosha, Wis, It
I,,.,. i,
- , known hero to-day that the ov
owners of
lery i iiinimiij ..' i ,ininrii.ini
mid pleasure motor vehicles,
DECIDE AT ONCE
OR WE STRIKE,
SAY R. R. UNIONS
Heads of Four Brother
hoods Tell Wilson They'll
Quit. Washington.
TIME LIMIT TS SET
rjij) XP1RE TO-NIGHT
Road Executives and Man-
ngers Hastily Draft
Counter Pmjmsa Is.
j!) .;j('p H0' DAY
IS AX OI TSIDE ISSUE
SlIO'O'l'Sl
-'"tra-
Arbitration on
Wage Increase and Fund
to Insure Payment.
W'ArtHlNHTov. A tie. 2.1. A crisis to-
railroad strike appeared unavoidable
t0.ncht.
,,..,, . , .
Hearts of tho f.mr railroad brolher-
hoods went to the White House to-day
nnJ infnrm.,i i.P,i,i, u'iu,, n,f
nnu """""e-l I faldcnt Wilson that
under nn circumstances could they
i,od lnrl ... . f ,0 . f.
l,lr,r commit tie or i.io mro nitr
to-morrow night. Tho men, they aald,
won- demanding tlm'. they obtain sonm
. ,. ,.. ,, .
''""nlto answer from the railroad hcadH
on President Wilson's. pl:wi, already
The President is understood to hao
given the men no definite promiso a to
what he would do. Hu made an appoint
ment with them for noon to-morrow.
nau oai'iluu.
Rnllrnnil Heads In rnnfereao.
j Thu railroad presidents and nan.igers
held two vonfeienccs during tlui day and
. continued their ses-h ns until late to.
night, working on . c'liimnuiuoat ion to
, ,.,,, ftllil, fl)r,h t,,.,r 10M.
, ,),,. proposal that they grant au
elsht hour .lav wi'.h pay at the rato now
e'lw't. for .. ten hour basic .lay
it wa:i iin.leistooil that tho tentative
(lraft of ,,. ,,,,, hvi ,or(
that the railroad" agree to tlie eight
hour day principle, but lielieve that thH
UrrM '''' '"
T. r.,road heads .ilst. us they have
from the beginning of negotiations, thai
H Is Increas.d pay and not a shorter
work day that the employiea really de-
1 sire. To grant them the slmrtor baslo
day at the piesent pay. It Is contended,
would mean nu additional annual expen
diture of jr.:.n(.ii,mi.
Itepn uMitatives of the men Indicated
to-nlght that such a rej ly would b un
sat isf.lctoi'
The counier pi.poval of the tallroad
executives to l'i,;sident Wilnin's sug
gestion that an tight hoar day bo
Kiaiited Is sinl to embody thim fe.i-
' tures :
Thai the itie.tlini of an eight hour
day I" not ilnertly cunneete.l wi'i the
I matter .11 Nsin-, and that there is a
difference between an actual eight
hour day and 1111 elcht hour day aa a
basis for pay
That questions of in. reases f wages
are Indisputable questions whl-'h
should be settled by .11 nitration.
Tlmt the pn sen di nianils of the
famine!! be sumr it. .1 io arbitration
b the Intei-iaie I'l imiprc. Commis
sion or soni- bo ml In hi. create.! Iv
Hie Presul nt or m .-onie nthrr way.
Thai if the inhuming t ..1 - it llnil
wage inere.i-es h.iiil. !., grantid thiil
finding w.ll lie rr iroa. live, ..ml the In
i ie.ice will take iffi-i fro 11 tile time
t n .irblttntron henln-
Thai .1 fund shall be ii. nt. il by the
r.'illrotola to pr., I , lur tins coiitai
gelicy, the llileitilal.. iimuiii Co fooi
msloii to kei p the .1. -mum- that will
be necessary, and the iiriangeinent to
loiitiiiiie 111 foivo fic a tune not jet
delci mined upon, the men agnelng
that during the period of arMtmtlon
there shall be no further il.tnamls nor
any uttemvt to strike
Draft of lleporl Mibiolllrd.
1 A draft of this report w 1 I'mimlcd
to-nlght hy the committee of e.piit pros
1 Ideuts, wiio hive been cotMantly at
wink upon its vailous pha i s for n
week. There was some disetlfslnn, bin
only one vote was taken and by It the
sixty piesldeuts and 111" manigera ap
proved the draft Some s Kiu n.ldltlnns
tn the plirnseii'ogv are to be made and
thn II1111I di ift presented .it anothr
meeting to-morrow morning. From thai
meeting the lepoll Is oxpeelid to In.
taken to President Vv Usui.. It was said
to-nlght this will be the final n port of
thn executive"
"It puts the Issue upmrelv up 10 tin
men," was the wiy one utile it phrased
It.
Some of tile exo'iitUt hii I thai while
I 111 inon..-'al would lio! Ulie I ie lllei
liii1 c than 2" per ""I ! " 1 " wige-
proaJ.le.l for In .ne.i In Pi . .-el' 1.' U't-
pa,, It iuobalil'. would ve an 11
ciciro of over lo I" r eiit Tin pro
. 1 posal In Its tentative mini cov.en tnree
' ivnevvilttell Page After tne V He l-ev
eral of the exeem'ves made nil a. llon
-wnlch the cnmmlttee of eight probably
will Include in the Dual draft
Onrstlnu I'.nllrelj of Wouea.
. Throughout the iIIm ussioii Hie execu
lives took the position that the question
of the eight hour !. was entirely one of
wages rather nun or principle The
r,i,l to-nlght they nevtr had voted
fouually on Piesnlent WINon s plan at
a whole, but that all o' t'le'i- discission
had shown It could not be aeci pud in
Its entirety, Tho plan now- igreed on
will be the fl"t piesciite.l tv the execu
tive! since thn negotiations began
Lenders of the brothel hoods could ror
be reached lo-niuut for discussion ,u tho
,
I
