THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
10 PAGES
mOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, AUGUST 26, 1916
10 PAGES
.VOL. XXVII., NO. 100
ITUATI
i
J
.ft,
I MEl
lAiaiinniii
it
ON
EMPLOYES CHAFIN G UNDER DELIlT
DEMAND REPLrFROMR.Et.W
. II IKE COUNTED PRQPDSftL
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, Aug. 25. After the heads of the four great railroad
brotherhoods threatening a nation-w ide strike had gone to th White
House today with a warning that their men would not wait lonqer than
tomorrow night for a reply from the railroad executives to President Wil
son's suggestion that an eight-hour dry be cranted, the executives tonight
agreed upon a counter proposal to be submitted to the president tomorrow.
This plan, holdinq to the demand for arbiration with the employes have
declared they unalterably oppose, proposes:
"That the question of an eight-hour day is not c'irectly connected with
the matter at issue and that there is a difference between an actual eight
hour day and an eight-hour day as a basis for pay:
"That the questions of increases of wages are indisputably questions
which should be settled by arbitration;
"That the present demands of the trainmen be submitted to arbitra
tion by the interstate commerce commission or some board to be created
by the president or in some other way,
"That if the arbitrating board fine's wage increases should be granted,
thoir findinq will be retroactive and the increase will take effect from the
time the arbitration begins.
"That a fund shall be created by the railroads to provide for this con
tinpency, the interstate commerce commission to keep the accounts that
will bo necessary and to arrsnce to Continue for a time not yet determined,
ho men aqreeing that during the period of arbitration there shall be no
further demands or any attempt to strike."
A draft was submitted tonight by the committee of eiqht presidents
who have been constantly at work Upon its various phases for a week.
There was some discussion, but only one vote was taken and by it the
sixty p-esidents and manage' approved the draft. Some slight additions to
the phraseology are to be made and tPa final draft presentee! at another
mectinq tomorrow.
From that meetinq the report is e xpected to be taken to President Wil
son. It was said tonight this will be the final meetinq of the executives.
The crisis in the situation is expece( nv noon tomorrow, when the
president has an engagement to see the brotherhood leaders.
Some of the executives said that
While the proposal would not Rive them
-re-re than 20 pi-r cent increase in
wanes provided for in effort of I'resi
nnt Wilson's plan, it probably would
give an increase of over ten per cent.
After the vote several of the executives
made suggestions, which the commit
tee of eight probably will include in
the final draft.
Throughout the discussion the ex
ecutives took the riosition that the
question of the eicht-hour day was en
tirely one of wages rather than of
principle. They said tonight they nev-
r irfld voted formally on President
Wilson's plan as a whole but that all
of their discussions hal shown that it
could not be accepted it- ita entirety.
The plaTTTiovr agreed on -will be the
tnst presented by the executives since
the negotiations began.
Although the railroad presidents
would not attempt to forecast how
their counter proposition would be re
reived by the men some of them were
inclined to believe the brotherhoods
would decide that much had been con
ceded and that it would be a losing
fight to hold out for their original de
mands. Heads of the four railroad brother
hoods went to the White House today
and informed I'resident Wilson that
under no circumstances could they hold
their committee of 640 here after to
morrow night. The men. they said,
were demanding that they obtain some
definite answer from the railroad heads
on rresiileiit Wilson's plan, already ac
cepted by them, or that they be ir
mitted to go home and prepare for a
tstnke. Everything was declared to be
in readiness for a walkout whenever
the committee of 640 gave the word.
The president is understood to have
Riven the men no definite promise as
io what he would do. He made an ap
pointment with them for noon tomor-
w. However, and shortly after they
left the White House he sent for
three of the railroad executives to ad
vise them of what had happened.
The railroad presidents and mana
gers had two conferences during the
day and continued their sessions until
late tonight.
The railroad heads Insist, as they
nave from the beginning, that it is in-
day that the employes really desire.
ALLEGING WRONGS III SLATS
MILITIA CAPTAIN IN RIS TENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MACON, (a., Aug. 25. Captain Kii
gar J. Spratting of Co. F, Fifth regi
ment. National Guard of Georgia, was
shot and killed in his tent at the stale
mobilization camp here today by Mrs.
II. C Adams of Atlanta. At the
county Jail tonight, where she was held
on a charge of murder, Mrs. Adams
asserted that Captain Spratting, who
was a physician, had offended her by
attentions paid her several weeks ago
while she was in his office in Atlanta
for treatment.
Mrs. Adams, who is about 30 years
of age, came from her home In At
lanta today and went directly to the
camp. At Captain Spratting' tent she
asked the officer If he were Captain
Spratting. and, on being answered in
the affirmative, fired at him twice
from a small caliber revolver, both
Bhots taking . effect. According to
Ueutenant Samuel A. Kyser of Co. K,
who seized her a moment later, she
cried out as she shot the officer. "You
have ruined my home." After the
shooting she seemed hysterical. She
ssid afterwards she hud never betore
Bten Captain Spratting in his uniform
but that he had treated her for a ner
vous trouble. Referring again to the
tdiooting, she declared:
"I decided there was but one thing
for me to do. and I did it. When the
testimony comes out I feel sure the
public will bo with me."
According to informal ion received
here, Mrs. Adams left her home In
Atlanta shortly after her husband, who
is employed at a laundry, had gone to
work, leaving her and the eoup!e'H
three children ut home. She said to
night she had previously told her hus
band of alleged improper relations be
tween her and the captain.
To grant them the shorter basic day
ut the present pay. it is contended.
would mean an additional annual ex
penditure of $52.OO",O0.
Representatives of the men indicated
tonight that such a reply would be un
satisfactory. H has been well known since the
presidents came here that many of
them would welcome a strike. Some of
them have pointed out that in their
opinion submission in the present crisis
would weaken discipline on their lines
and that it would lie only a short time
until the trainmen's demands are fol
lowed by similar ones of other em
ployes. Many of them feel that a
strike could last only a few days at
the longest, and the more important
systems would have little trouble
handling the mails and milk trains and
supplying the larger cities with food
stuffs. The railroad executives virtually dis
missed from all consideration today
questions of freight rato increases and
of methods of insuring settlement of
future disputes. They centered atten
tion on the two propositions of the
eight-hour day and the arbitration of
wage under it.
Statements were issued by President
Howard F.lliott of the New Haven, and
1!. li. Ashtrni of the Chicago and
Northwestern. Mr. Elliott said h
hned a real solution would be found
for the situation "rather than thai it
should be settled off-hand and' solely
in the interest of the 400,000 who are
now pressing their demands."
President Aslitnn said that in 1S00
the amounts of waces paid trainmen
employes for each l.fioO tons of freight
moved one mile was 56.4 cents, while
in 1 St 1 4 it was 61 cents, an increase of
23 per cent.
The conference committee of man
agers made public several telegrams
from commercial organizations sup
porting their insistence upon arbitra
tion of labor disputes.
It was a determined quartet from the
brotherhoods that visited President
Wilson today to deliver their ulti
matum. On Wednesday evidence of
unrest among the committee of 610 he
came so apparent that., their leaders
considered the situation grave and it
(Continued on Page Three)
Captain Spratting, who was 47 years
old, and married, was well known In
medbal and social circles in Atlanta.
He was regarded as an expert on In
sanity, and once was connected with
the Matteawan (New York) asylum in
that capacity.
Hags were placed at half-mas' in
the state camp tonight and prepara
tions were made to take the officer's
body to Atlanta under military escort.
His fellow officers indicated "a belief
that nervous disorders had caused the
woman to think the physician-captain
had acted Improperly toward her.
A coroner's jury tonight held Mrs.
Adams to the county Jail on a charge!
of murder.
Red" Enemy
. Striking Distance of "Blue"
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. 23. The "Red"
enemy fleet was within striking dis
tance of Sandy Hook tonight, its
scouts having been sighted by the
"Hlue" defending forces iu the naval
war game at 11 a. m. today, 120 miles
off liarnegat Inlet.
The "Red" scouts were heading west,
the message showed, and navy officials
said Admiral Helm undoubtedly was
straining every resource to locate the
main "Red" fleet under Admiral Mayo,
and the transport train that is bringing
a hypothetical urmv of invasion tf
the "Blue" scouts were successful in
giving positive information before
Germans Reach French Trenches
PROTECTIVE TARIFF TO
n-
n
I TWELVE INJURED WHEN j
i OIL TANK EXPLODES I
j CHARLES CITY, Iowa, Aug. 2.-.. i
I Twelve persons were injured. I
! cne perhaps fatally, late today I
I when a huge oil tunh belonging I
I to the Standard Oil Company ex- :
1 ploiied. A great pillar of fire I
I shot Into th" nir for a hundred
j feet fallowing the explosion and !
; burning oil was scattered in all I
' diieclu n. A spark fr.rni an en- ',
I pine which wni pumping gaso- ;
i line into storage ranks of the
! plant caused the explosion. The I
' loss is estimated at $25,000. j
bIIeIll""
DURING DEBATE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. IT.. The first
clash of th session between fw-caUed
old lore and progressive republicans
occurred in the senate tod.iy during
debate on the emergency revenue b'il
Senator (iallinger. the minority bad
er, criticised progressive republicans
for the overthrow of former Speaker .
' aniwn and attacks on thn lite Sena
tor Ablrich. drawing a vigorous repiy
from Senator Oronnu.
Senator 'iallinger declared that cer
tain republicans who had sown seeds
of d'siuutcnt over the IMngley tariff
chose forrr.i-r Sneaker '"i.r.non r.s the
"ionih" on whom to hean the burden!
of hltimr. and thai they preached the I
f.ilse theory thai the h!.Th cos: of
t.vimr was due to the Dinglev tariff.
Senator (Ironnah insisted that the i
tariff had nothing whatever to do
with the overthrow of Cannon and
th.it h
utiatkerl only to end nn
cf atroiious domitu.lion ..f the i
era
houe. He also hotlv denounced 111-!1"- liipiomauc service. tie also as
feren.e, that progressive republicans sailed the administration's foreign
had at that time demonstrated fre-!l""cy and cited Its course toward
trade tendc-ncie. an,l char:-, X'.ut I -l " -'"l.i-..mii example of
mic t:t to nniur.ic1 thn f;itfrrs "H
thn enun'rv fur frf- tr,ip
"The hiMrv 't ?rn m"nrh
Murine whirh 1h I'mU-rwrwxl art
v I'm tprrntivo nr normal rorvM-
lions.' said he 'is sufficient to ,u.U.y
our predictions, and to further out
!h "temp of dis'i'iproval titwin n law j
whi h but for the war. would have,
mined most of the in iustrl" of the
I'niied States, and whl-h. if still In
effect at the ' lose of the war. will !
make this country the dumping
cround for nil th" suri -l'i product of
foreign lalwr. In the first tn months
of the I'nderwood law trier was an
!ncreae of sKS.tVin fiat In Imports nnl
i decrease of $J4I,fio.(H" in exports.
"Sugar factories closed down, or
were operated under reduced condi
tions s'eel mills drew their fires.
Woolen mil's retrenched, manv cotton
miils '.vcre forced out of busings.,
factories that remained open rcducd
their o.iiput. stocks reduced. J.Odn.dui)
workers were out of employment, tiv
largest (wrcent.ige since lx'14 freight
cars to the number of XfiOnuO were
Idle, as were the locomotives and en
gineers, freight handlers, firemen, an.1
others depending npoi their orient -tlon.'
slxtv per rent of the railroad
mileage of the country wa" in
hands of receives dividends were
oas.'ed. railroad gross earnings
dropped one hundred millions In h
ten months or Sia.nftO.ocn a month,
broad llne were the longest ever
known, and there wa the greatest
demand for clinritv. When we pre
dicted there thlrgs we were called
'cn'amity howlers' but I :im revitlna;
history now. ,
"Iiisappolnled and niffeilng citi
'"Tis. grown desperate 4v these con
dition when they ventured to ask for
relief, were told by the president that
the apparent distress was 'purely psy
chological!" "Ry .TiiRe of 1915 our trade balance
was wiped nut and reversed show
ing imports of :!53.li("i fian more than
our export". The record is certainly
a terrible indictment against the dem
ocratic nnrtv and it does not renir
a stretch of the imagination to pre
dict tb'tt never ne'e in w ill such an
induatrlal atastrooh- occur as was
brourht about bv this niinorlty-cle'-t--d
administration."
Sntitnr Week at tucked the pro
I owl doubling of the income t ix.
which h sf.id was designed or;g'nallv
(Continued on Page Two,
Fleet Within
darkness complicated their task. It was
believed Admiral Helm would make a
night "attack" upon the most vulner
able elements of the "Reds."
The position and course of the "Red"
scouts indicate that Admiral Mayo
might be making a. dash for some lead
ing point either near New York or Ht
Delaware Bay. Ills scouts were about
equal distance between these points
when sighted. The fact stood out
sharply that despite the long line of
scouts thrown out by the "Blue" com-
mander the "Tied" fleet hajl driven to
' nrUVtlti Clfl r,llo. ,.f lha itatiori'a mod
I important seaport without having been
J intercepted.
PREPARE FDD
FROM EUROPE
(Special to The Republican)
CHF.YF.NNK. Wyo.. Aug. 25.
Charles E. Hughes tonight addressed
an audience at Frontier Park here on
the importance of upbuilding Ameri
can industries to meet Euroiean com
petition after the war. This, be said.
could not be done under a tariff fur
revenue only, but could be accom
plished tinder a protective tariff such
as the republican parly proposed
Mr. Hughes spoke to an audience
that shivered in the cold night air.
notwithstanding heavy v. raps and
overcoats. The nominee was half an
hour late In starting his address. In
beginning, he emphasized the fact that
he represented a reunited party.
"We have set aside our differences
in order that we may achieve great
riat:on.-il alms. Mr. Hughes said
"Th-se aims are so high that they
tianscend every possibility of differ
ence. I come as the spokesman of an
historic party, recommended to its best
ideals and pledged to the success of
this great nation at an extremely crit
ica I time.
"The problems that we are facing
today nre not exactly like those which
we have dealt with iu the past. We are
entering upor a new era of history.
do not think the world will be the
same world after the European war
that It was before
"The upbuilding of American Indus
try." he mid. "lies at the very founda-
lion or tne luiure ot me I nueq Mates.
It can never be done under an admin-
istratloii that frames its tariff for
revenue only.
Air. Hughes reiterated his declnra-
'Hon that he favored the appointment
""Jy nf competent, experienced men to
until we ouuni noi 10 o.
A tru; of pnwhoyn leil thv way
fpm tin' Cheyenne hotel to the Fron
tier park, whooping as 1 1 1 y R.ilojKd
iilontc- In thrjr diiHt camp the nominee
i and Mr. Hughes, in the first of a
. .,s r ,,,, ' ,
together late today, facing the grand-
stand.
During the afternoon Mr. and Mrs.
Hughes held a reception at the hotel,
meeting the women voters of Chey
enne. Later they visited the almost
deserted army post nearby. Fort D.
A. Kussel. After tonight's meeting
there was another brief reception at
the hold and the nominee, thoroughly
fatigued, retired to his car, which wiil
be held over in the railroad yards until
T a. m., when the start for Denver will
be matlc.
Speaks at Laramie
LA HAM IK. Wyo.. Aug. 25. l'aper
programs and statutes are meaningless
without efficiency, declared Charles K.
Hughes iu a ten-minute talk in the
city park following his arrival here
early PsJay. He reiterated his declar
ation for a protective tariff enforce
ment of civil service and a business
like administration of government.
"We fOt'.nld have but one Ideal In
making .. ,sjintments." the republican
noinlc.- ,'i.r the presidency declared.
" I'i. ii ideal 4hould be efficiency. Taper
pi -i ., ins mid statutes amount to noth
ing in.li -s we have efficiency. Kffi-
ciene; - t'.jt's the watchword of the
twentieth century-
Hughes reviewed what he termed "a
fine record of republican achievement."
in the enactment of labor legislation.
"I am for that and more," he said.
"We ought to have an adequate com
pensation in order that all who work
may be assured proper protection and
adequate compensation in case of acci
dent." Hughes left for Cheyenne shortly
after noon.
Candidate and Mrs. Hughes held an
Informal reception at the park, where
they met a committee of women who
had been voting since the territory of
Wyoming became a state In 1S69.
o
Chango" Makes
Things Ham for
Time in Douglas
f Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOWLAS. Ariz., Aug., 25.
"Chango" a large monkey belonging
io Harry C Wilson, proprietor of
social club here, escaned from his
quarters today and entered a smalt
hotel, invading the room of a guest
Finding a medicine chest he Investi
gated the contents, with the result
that he poured a quantity of turpen
tine on his body. F.nraged by the
burring of tne fluid, he broke every
nottle in the room, then tore up a
quantity of clothing in an effort to
wipe the turpentine off.
The proprietor of the hotel and a
number of guests who attempted to
rapture him were held at bay bv the
anlmKl, perched on the ton of
dresser and throwing missiles at
them. Later he escaped to the rear
yard where he killed and was eating
a chicken when he was captured bv
members of the city police force. He
occupied a celt In the eitu tail In.
! night until decision could be reached
as to what ' should be done with him.
UPBUILD INDUSTRIES
NEW FEDERAL OATH IS
SUPREMELY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Col.L'MIU'S. U-, Aug. 25. Judge J.
K. Sates of the United States district
court tonight rendered a decision that
"federal jurisdiction over national
guardsmen serving under the new
federal oath is supreme and para
mount,' ai.d th.it "a state cannot in
terfere with officers and men in
military service when such interfer
ence might deprive the government
of the services of the soldiers."
The decision was handed down
upon evideme submitted in the hear
ing of a writ of habeas torpus grow
ing out of charges of assault brought
;.g llnst Captain W. tJ. Wutzen and
Sergeant T. Doyle of the Third regi
ment, Ohio national guard, who were
tRepeblicsn A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Augustt 25. Con
gress is getting ready to adjourn next
Friday, if possible, ignoring all threats 1
of members to press special bills for I
nsideration over protests of admin
istratmn leaders.
It is expected that a Joint resolution
to provide for adjournment Friday
evening will be submitted to both
houses next week as soon as the gen
eral deficiency appropriation bill has
passed the house, probably Tuesday.
Democratic leaders declare the resolu
tion will be adopted and that this will
operate to check a threatened pro
longed fight In the senate over the
' wen ( oi iupt practices bill, which
amused a fusillade of charges n(l
counter charges of political corruption
yesterday.
Senator Owen's determination to de
mand a vote on a motion to take up
the corrupt practices bill still hangs
over the senate but several Influential
democrats said today his motion, if he
got an opportunity to make it. would
be defeated. Senator Smith of South
t'arolina intends to seek another op
portunity to pass the immigration hill
and he might get it through If it could
lie done without provoking debate.
After the deficiency and revenue bills
are passed, however, senate leaders on
both sides say "wild horses could not
hold a quorum.'
To clear the way for adjournment
Majority Leader Kitchin sent urgent
telegrams today to all house absentees.
asking that they return at once for the
final legislative drive of the season.
The house has the shipping bill as
amended and the forthcoming revenue
bill to pass the deficiency bill as soon
as it gets through the house.
"When that is done." said Senator
Simmons, chairman of the finance
committee, "all general debate on the
revenue bill will halt and it will be
rushed through. In the meantime sen
ate amendments to the house hill are
being informally considered with ways
and means committee members and a
final report will be ready almost as
soon as the bill reaches the house to
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i
CHICAGO. Aug. 25 How Kdward
W. Morrison, eccentric millionaire
whose estate is under investigation in
Federal Judge Landis' court, adopted
two girls of whose parentage their
supposed father accused him, was
told on the witness stand today by
one of the girls herself.
The witness was Margaret Burn
stein Morrison, 16 years old.
Burnstein had testified that his
wife, on her deathbed, had confessed
that the millionaire was the father of
her and her younger sister. Alice.
The court room was jammed with
spectators when the two girls, to
gether with Mrs. Anna Briggs, Mor
rison's housekeeper, were brought in
by bailiffs. Margaret's testimony fol
lowed revelations indicating the aged
millionaire hnd paid thousands of
dollars to nn organized gang of hluck
mnilers that he had leaned . money
freely on "I. O. I"s" of irresponsible
parties, -md bad paid huge iums for
questionable amusement.
Margaret said she had been legally
adopted by the mllloinalre and that
she had lived at the Morrison home
since Mav B, im6. and that the
adoption was her mother's wish.
As court adjourned today, the
combined forces of the court bailiff
and a number of guards were re
quired to hold hack the crowd whlcn
sought to get a close view of the
girls.
Morrison's estate was thrown Into
bankruptcy proceedings After an as
sig iment or sale of much of his prop
CONGRESS B
ADJOURN EAST
DF NEXT WEEK
AGED MILLIONAIRE EAST MARK
FOR ORGANIZED BLACKMAILERS
But at Once Evicted
PAR AMOUNT
alleged to have assaulted Charles
I-aker, a socialist orator at Hamilton,
Ohio, June 22 when he made state
ments considered derogatory to the
national guardsmen.
The men were arrested while en
camped on the state house lawn here
esterday while acting in capacity of
provost gucrds. Judge Sates ordered
th" men released, his opinion being
that even temporary confinement un
der civil restraint might interfere
with their movement as tnited States
soldiers, in case the Ohiu troops were
ordered to the border. Military au
thorities say they may be tried on
the charges bv court martial. Offi
cers crnsidcr tiie ruling the most im
portant rendered in connection with
rai'itary service in fifty years.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug., 25. Secre
tary Lansing will attend the first
meeting of the American-Mexican
commission to adjust border difficul-
ties whi'h will be held in New York
September 4. An official announce
ment of tins decision lollowed a con
ference tonight.
Mr. li n.sing has not decided wheth
er to issue formal instructions to
the American commissioners.
The meeting in New York will be
only preliminary to the effort to find
a solution for the various problems
.ir:ipg out of the border conditions.
Plans will be drawn up then for the
pr-ccdure of the commissioners
the fiivt stages 0f their work, an-
afterward they will be taken on a
naval 'essel to the New F.ngland
seaport elected for their delibera
tions. The superdreadnaught Penn
sylvania probably will be assigned
for the purpose.
Secearv Lansin? did not announce
at what city the conference would j
tie held, although it is known tnat
this virtually was determined in his
talk with the commissioners today.
The secretary will confer with Eliseo
Arredondo, Mexican ambassador-designate,
before the announcement.
Further information which the
state department desires to communi
cate to the American commissioners
will Vie presented to Secretary Lane
or Professor Rowe who will remain
in Washington all next week pre
paring for the session of the Joint
commission.
Ochoa Escapes
EI, FASO, Texas, Aug.. 25. Manuel
Ochoa, the Villista general who sur
rendered Juarez to the constitution
alists last Dtcembcr under a grant
of amnesty, was captured in t'.iis dis
trict yesterday by Mexican customs
pntrols and escaped after killing one
cf his guards, according to reports
received this evening by General
Francisco Gonz'-iles at his Juarez
hcadniarters.
Ochoa. who had been a political
refugee in Kl Paso crossing the river
(Continued on Page Two)
erty to James R. Ward, an attorney.
By terms of Morrison s father a will
the property would revert to the city
of Chicago in case he died intestate.
The estate was estimated at about
16.000,000 but so far, the only tang
ible assets found are an apartment
huilding worth about $100,000, a col
lection of old coins and Jll in cash.
LANSING WILE
ATTEND ENVOYS'
EIRST MEETING
Tom Campbell Caught Out
On Desert In Cloudburst
(Special To The Republican)
OATMAN, Ariz.. Aug., 25. A terrific cloudburst late this afternoon
nlayad havoc in this mininq camp. A number of houses were torn from
their foundations, roads were washed away and not until late toniqnt
did the storm cease its damage. ' 'j '
The storm lasted for hours and aecordina to the old timers in the
onrrip it was the heaviest ia thirty years. Late into the night people
toiled, clearing out the mud and water from tm business establishments
and residences. Those residing in the quiches are without homes to
night. The Mazoma, Carter and Old Trails townsites suffered mostly.
The water flowed from the heart of the camp and carried tent houses
and cabins with it.
Tom Campbell, republican candidate for governor left here for King
man about' an hour before the storm and it is believed that he was cauaht
out in the desert. The roads to Kingman are in a terrible condition and
no stages are leaving the camp.
KINSMAN. Ariz., Auq., 25. A cloudburst broke over Oatman about
5 30 o'clock this afternoon and for two hours thereafter water from the
surrounding hills rushed through the sold mine camp streets two feet
deep. Many hotels and business places were flooded and streets ana
roads badly damaged.
SOUTHEAST Df
VERDUN HEAVY
FIGHTING IS ON
Republican A. P. Leaeed Wire
Apparently from the French state
ment the allied troops do not plan an
advance on the right wing, as British
cavalry detachments are reported to
havei destroyed bridges over the An
gista river. On the left wing Paris
reports "appreciable" progress for the
Serbians and the capture of several
hundred prisoners. In the center
where the main effort of the allies is
expected, heavy artillery action is
taking place but there la no report cf
infantry operations.
The lull on the eastern front con-
; tinues but the renewed offensive by
the Grand Duke Nicholas in Armenia
is growing in extent. The recent
fighting in the region of Lake Van is
described in Petrograd as a crush
ing blew to the Turks and Russian
military critics predict the resump
tion of the grand duke's advance to
ward Asia Minor.
The usual period of comparative in
activity has followed the western
front gains reported by Paris ant
London, is partially confirmed by
Berlin. . The Germans have, how ever,
attempted a new blow at the French
at the point of the famous St. Mihiel
salient. This salient juts far into the
French line southeast of Verdun and
has been the scene of some of the
bloodiest fighting in France. Thn
force of the German blow carried
them into the French trenches hut
Paris says they were immediately
evicted by a counter attack.
London again has been the' target
for a Zeppelin raid and. as usual, the
accounts issued by Berlin and Lon
don conflict. Berlin claims that the
British capitol was heavily bombard
ed by several naval dirigibles and
that batteries and vessels were
struck. According to London only
one of the Zeppelins reached the out
skirts of the city and the material
damage done was slight Eight per
sons were killed and 36 injured, ac
cording to the British version.
Germans Assault French Line
PARIS. Aug. 25, (Via London
The Germans have made a new as
sault on the French line at the tip of
the famous salient at St. Mihiel. but
have been repulsed after gaining a
footing in French trenches, according
to tonight's official statement.
The Serbians have made appreci
able progress on the left wing of the
Saloniki front and have taken sev
eral hundred prisoners, according to
the official statement by the war
office tonight.
Crushina Blow for Turks
PETROGRAD. Aug. 25. (Via Lon
don) The Turkish attempt to en
circle the left flank of the Russian
Caucasian army appears to have re
ceived a crushing blow from the
troops of Grand Duke Nicholas in the'
region of Lake Van. The Turkish
encircling scheme aimed ot regaining
Erzerum and thus nullifying all the
J grand duke's victories in Turkish Ar
I menia. appeared about to succeed but
the Russian re-occupation ot Jius'i
and re-establishment of Russian po
sitions west of Lake Van apparently
has made hopeless the Turkish ef
fort s.
The task of turning the Russians
left flank in southern Armenia anil
western Persia was entrusted to the
Mush groun of the Turkish forces,
which reinforced by troops from ev
ery part of the European and Asiatic
Turkey until they far outnumbered
he Russian army opposing them, be
gan the northeastern drive in the di
rection of Erzerum. Although con
stantly halted bv the Russian fire and
forced to send in a continuous
stream of reserves to repair ravages
to their lines caused by the Russian
counter attacks, the Turks appeared
early in August after the reoccupa
tion"of Mush and the successful ex
pedition into Persian territory as far
as Hnmadan. to be in a fair way
toward accomplishing the task they
had undertaken.
The turning point came soon aire
th" occupation of Mush when th"
Russian line in that neighborhood
stiffened suddenly. The battle begun
then continued uninterruptedly until
yesterday when the Turkish forces,
despite their reported superiority lit
numbers, fell back under the Rus
sian assault, conducted from the re
gions of Melaguerd and Onlskala and
Continued on Page Two)
(
