I Metal Prices - MUfiffyftft QLiYV I 4 R M' CITY " II
I NEW voRkotat,on. II JIPII in II FTl rl III tY 1 1 ' twenty-four pages
S copper, $27.50 at $28.00. ' f ) N Showers in North Central Portion To- tflH
H wr ' fe night or Sunday; Cooler In North Ell
III FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. central Portion. HH
I .FOrty'S'Xth YCar-N- 205 Price Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, AUGUST 26, 1916. L Entered as Second-Class Matter at the Police, Ogden, Utah. H
! Strike Situation Has Reached Crisis I
Iji S H
President Wilson Goes to Capitol I
jj Bulgarians Capture Greek Fort
h and Kill Commander Changas
6 ) CT
! I GERMAN FORCES ARE LAUNCHING
I! NEW OFFENSIVE IN CHAMPAGNE
1 u Some French Positions Are Penetrated, But Teutons Are Sub
j sequently Driven Out Heavy Counter Thrust Near
Maurepas Repulsed Bulgars Win Important Vic
j tory Over the Serbians British Repulse Final
i Attack of Prussian Guard Italians Oc
, cupy Porto Palermo and Summit of
Mount Kalarat in Albania.
?
Berlin, Aug. 26, by wireless to Sayville. The Italian at-
fj tack recently inaugurated in the Dolomites on the northern
I part of the front has failed and the fighting is dj'ing down, the
I official Austrian announcement of yesterday says. The state
ment also reports skirmishing along the Voyusa river in Al
bania, north of Avlona.
Rome, Aug. 26, via London, 4:30 p. m. Italian troops
have won additional successes in the Alpine along the north
ern part of the Austro-Italian front, the war office announced
j today.
Petrograd, Aug. 26, via London, 2:46 p. m. Official
announcement of arrival of Russian troops at Saloniki was
made by the war office today.
Sofia, Aug. 26, via London. After severe fighting on
' the Bulgarian right wing on the Macedonian front, the Serbians
have been defeated with very heavy losses and compelled to
retire, the war office announced today. Eighteen consecu
j tive attacks were made by the Serbians. On the eastern end
j of the front, the Bulgarian forces have reached the Greek
( Aegean coast and put British cavalry detachment to flight.
: Several villages have been occupied by the Bulgarians.
( Tho statement says: "Our offen-
j. sive on our right wing continues. In
l the region of Moglencia mountain
considerable Serbian forces, support
ed -by neighboring troopsf from the
night of August 21 until the afternoon
of August 23, attempted eighteen con
secutive attacks. All their attacks
were repulsed whereupon tho Serbians
retired to their former positions. Their
losses were immense.
! "Our left wing, advancing upon the
Aegean coast, wet weak British caval-
I ry detachments which took flight in
i tho direction of George and Orinno
pursued ,by our troops."
"On August 23 wo captured Kreta,
Parnardagh, the village of Dzravlk,
Hill 750, ten kilometers north of Or-
; fano; Blgla mountain, the village of
Dranovn, the territory to tho heights
j north of Kavala and the whole Sar-
'f ishaban plain.
' "The assertion of tho French gener-
i al staff that French troops have oc
fly cupied the village of Palmisch is in
i correct. This village, in Greek ter
ij ritory, was from the boginnlng in
possession of the French."
. The Sofia announcement discloses a
wide extension of tho Bulgarinn oc
cupatlon of Greek territory. The area
I; now taken over skirts the Aegean for
jabout 50 miles. Apparently the Bul
!'( (garians have reached all northeast-
iern Greece from tho Bulgarinn bor-
der to Orfnno where tho old front end
i ed. They are thus established ovor a
I largo sector on the eastern flank of
I the entente allies.
"While determinedly resisting the al
lied advance on the Sommo front, the
Germans are launching an offensive
t movement in the Campague region.
They penetrated some French posi
tions, but subsequently were driven
out, Paris declares.
An assault by tho Germans on the
point of tho St. Mlhlol salient, south
east of Verdun, was repelled by a
counter attack, according to the
French report.
I I" V On tho Sommo a German counter
thrust directed at Hill 121 near Mau
repas, was repulsed, 'the French bulle
tin declares. The British statement
i announces tho repulse of an attack
ft by the Prussian guard on allied posi
U tions at Thiepval and says the Brit
v Ish in their advance on that town
IV have taken 400 yards more of German
trenches.
11 Sofia reports nn Important victory
11 "over the Serbians on tho Bulgarian
11 right wing, and announces that on the
other flank tho Bulgarians have
,Wt reached the Greek Aegean coast.
'11 Vienna claims the checking of Rus
1 Bian attemptskto advance in the
tjv,' The British admiralty anourices the
If torpedoing of a British naval auxll
iary in theNorth sea, involving the
loss of 23 men. .
Paris, Aug. 2G, 4:15 a. m. The Bul-
garlans have attacked and enptured
the Greek fort of Startlla, after kill
ing its commander, Changas, and the
entire garrison which offered spirited
resistance, says a Saloniki dispatch to
tho Matin. Tho dispatch is dated Au
gust 23, and was delayed.
Emperor Enters Controversy.
Paris, Aug. 2G, 5:20 a. m. Accord
ing to information from diplomatic
source, says , a wireless from Berne,
Emperor William of Germany wrote
to King Ferdinand of Rumania that
he Intended to send Duke Albrecht of
Mecklenburg on a special mission to
him with regard to the position of Ru
mania. King Ferdinand replied, adds the
dispatch, that the mission would be
Inopportune because, as a constitu
tional monarch, he would be obliged
to refer tho envoy to his minister and
in the circumstances he preferred that
any communication from the German
government should bo received
through ordinary diplomatic channels.
The announcement says: "On the
Sommo the artillery fighting was vio
lent at the end o the day yesterday
and during part of last night South
of Maurepas at about 10 p. m. strong
enemy reconnoitering parties in the
vicinity of Hill 121 were dispersed
by our fire. The Germans mnde no
other attempt to attack.
"In the Champagne, after an in
tense bombardment, the enemy at
tacked our positions west of Tahure
at two points. The attack was held
up by our curtain of fire, except In
a small salient of our line where the
enemy gained a footing. Shortly af
terward we drove him out by a coun
ter attack.
"On the right bank of tho Mouse
the enemy violently bombarded tho
region of Thiaumont and Fleury and
several times carried out lively of
fensive actions against the village
and trenches bordering on Thiau
mont work. None of these attempts
succeeded in reaching our lines.
"In Lorraine wo caught under our
fire a German reconnoitering party
before Neuvillers, northwest of Bad
onvillers. "On the remainder of the front the
night was calm."
British, Defeat Prussian Guard.
London, Aug. 2G. 4:12 p. m. A
heavy attack mndo by the Prussian
Guard against British positions at
Thiepval on the Somme front was re
pulsed by tho Worcestershire and
Wiltshire regiments, It was officially
announced this afternoon.
Further progress by tho British In
their attack upon Thiepval is also re
ported, ground being gained on both
sides of Mouquet farm, notably to the
southwest, where 400 yards of German
trenches along the Courcellette Thl-
r
epval road were captured.
The statement says:
"The enemy bombardment of our
irst lino trenches along tho greater
portion of our front south of the
Ancre at various times from 7 o'clock
last night until early this morning.
"Covered by his artillery fire, he
attacked our positions west of Guil
lemont between the quarries and the
Montauban-Guillemont road. Ho did
not reach our lines at any point and
was repulsed with loss.
"Near Mouquet farm wo made fur
ther progress both 'on the east side of
the homestead and also on the north
west side where we have taken an
other 400 j'ards of trenches along the
Courcolette-Thiepval road.
"The importance attributed by the
enemy to the Thiepval sector of his
line is shown by the great efforts he
is making to recover his lost ground
in the Liepsic salient. Recently he
has been affecting a great concentra
tion of guns in this area to oppose
our progress and support his at
tacks. "Last night he delivered an attack
in considerable force on our new
trenches south of Thiepval village.
This attack was made by troops of
the Prussian guard and was preceded
by a very heavy bombardment. The
attack was everywhere repulsed with
heavy losses to the enemy and we
maintained all our positions.
"The success of our defense Is due
largely to the steadiness and deter
mined gallantry of the Wlltshires and
of the Worcestershire men who In
spite of beiji subjected to very
heavy bombardment, steadily main
tained their positions and repulsed
the determined assault of. JLhe enemy."
Germans Claim Victory.
Berlin, Via London, Aug. 2C 4:25
p. m. Attacks last night by the Brit
ish in tho Thiepval and Foureaux
woods sectors on the Somme front
and by- the French near Maurepas
were repulsed, the war office announc
ed today. In the Champagne, north
west of Tahure, French trenches were
raided and 4G prisoners captured.
The stntement regarding the west
ern front says:
"To the accompaniment of contin
uous artillery duels north of the Som
me, infantry attacks took place dur
ing the evening from Thiepval to the
Foureaux wood and near Maurepas
They were repulsed.
1 "Northwest of Tahure (Champagne)
our patrola captured 46 prisoners in
French trenches.
"In tho Meuse region the enemy
fire in .some sectors attained great
intensity.
"Two enemy aeroplanes were shot
down in the region of Bapaume and
j another hoar Zonnebeke, Flanders.
In aerial engagements, one aeroplane
1 was brought down east of Verdun and
one north of Fresnes."
''Only minor engagements along the
eastern front nre reported in today's
army headquarters announcement.
Austrlans Lose In Carpathians.
Petrograd, Aug- 26, via London, 3:14
p. m. In tho foothills of the Carpa
thians in Galicia, tho Russians have
pressed back tho Austrlans and have
made considerable progress, occupying
a village, it was announced today.
"In the Carpathians west of Nad
vorna," tho statement says, "our ad
vanced guards, having dispersed the"
enemy, occupied the village of Guta
l and reached the sources of the rivers
Bystrltza and Bystristza-Nadvorna In
tho region of Rafalov."
Stubborn Fight With Turks.
Petrograd, Aug. 26, via London,
9:46 a. m. The Russians ate press
ing the advantage recently gained
over tho Turks in southern Turkish
Armenia, according to today's official
statement, which says:
"On the line extending from the
town of Kygi to Lako Van stubborn
fighting continues. Our troops, after
having occupied the town of Mush, ad
vanced to the ridge of Kurst Dagu,
where we captured a number of
prisoners,
"In tho direction of Mosul wo con
tinue to pursue the remnants of tho
Fourth Turkish division."
Berlin, Aug. 2G. By Wireless to
Sayville. Russian troops which arc
attempting to advance In tho Carpath
ians toward the Hungarian border
have. been partly repulsed, the official
Austrian report of August 25 an
nounces. The statement says:
"Front of Archduke Charles Fran
cis: West of tho Moldova and In
the- district of Tartar pass, several
Russian attacks were partially re
pulsed in hand-to-hand fighting. The
enemy suffered large losses.
"Front of Field Marshal von Hln
donburg: In the sector of Terepel-nike-Picniaki
wo recaptured all tho
trenches lost August 22$ One of
ficer, 211 men and three machine guns
were captured."
Italians Occupy Palermo.
Paris, Aug. 26.-1:14 p. m. A dis-
f "
patch from Avlona tonight states that
the Italians have occupied Porto Pa
lermo and the summit of Mount Kal
arat, in southern Albania, in order to
watch the Albanian coast north of
Cape Keppali, 50 miles southeast of
Avlona, In which district there is said
to be an Austrian submarino baso.
The territory occupied by the Ital
ians is 'quasi-Greek." Tho opinion
of Rome newspapers, however, is that
Greece will not protest the occupation.
Paris, Aug. 26. Noon. After an
intense bombardment last night the
Germans launched an infantry attack
west of Tshure ,in the Campagne.
They penetrated the French position,
tho war office announced today, but
subsequently were expelled. German
attacks on the Somme and tho Verdun
fronts were repulsed.
The German attack on the Somme
front was made at Hill 121, near the
town cf Maurepas, recently captured
by the French.
On the Verdun front east of the
Meuse. the Germans attacked the
French line between Fleury and Thi
aumont, after a heavy bombardment
but Avere able to make no advance.
Aerinl engagements occurred all
along tho front. Three German aero
planes were shot down in the Somme
sector, one near Craon and another
on the Verdun front. Six others were
damaged and two German captive bal
loons weredestroyed.
War Fund Increased.
Amsterdam, Aug. 27. Via London,
11:15 a. m. By decree of the Ruman
ian council of ministers, published in
the Monitor, the extraordinary credit
lor the army is increased by 200,000,
000 francs to G00.000.000 francs, ac
cording to telegrams from Bucharest
today.
The Universal announces that Gen
eral Paraskivosco has been appointed
director of munitions and despatches,
and that General Popovic, inspector
general pf cavalry, has been appointed
to command the first army corps, in
succession to General Aversco.
CONVICTS ffl
THEIR WA! OUT
Bloodhounds Put on Trail
How Saw Was Obtained
a Mystery.
Bloodhounds immediately were put
on the trail but because of heavy rain
that fell throughout tho night, little
hope for their capture was held out.
How the convicts obtained saws is
a mystery to prison officials. All the
cells in the tier in which they were
confined lock with a sliding steel bar
and this was cut. They eluded the
vigilance of three night guards and
gained the outside of the cell building.
From there they entered a long un
used tunnel that connected with the
power plant. It had been closed
from tho outside years ago, but tho
convicts dug through six feet of con
crete and stone, thus reaching the
stockade. A ladder was found in the
tunnel and with the aid of this they
scaled the stockade walls.
The convicts are William Webber,
life-term for murder; Thomas Fln
nery, Thomas McCall and Harry Mor
ris, each serving ten-year sentences
for robbery.
Warden McClung has offered a re
ward of $700 each for their capture.
Paris, Aug. 25. Details have just
been learned here of a trip made to
the French front a. few days ago by
Mrs. William K. Vanderbilt through
the special permission of the minis
ter of war. She was accompanied
by A. Piatt Andrew, director of the
field sections of tho American ambu
lance. Tho schedule of the trip called for
visits to headquarters, where five
field ambulance units are now work
ing. It wns filled with more danger
and genuine thrills than are usually
the lot of visitors at the front.
Leaving Paris she told Mr. Andrew
sho hoped "to hear the cannon." He
assured her that her cars would ring
before their return. One night was
passed at Pont-a-Mousson, where she
declared she had the crowning ex
perience of her rather inclusive ca
reer. There was a heavy German
bombardment of the town and she
was quartered in a house where tho
American ambulance drivers were
lodged. She was awakened by explod
ing shells and heard walls collap
sing not far away as the shells loos
ened the foundations.
CONVICTS MAKE ESCAPE.
Jefferson City, M0., Aug. 26. Four
convicts, one of them serving, a life
term fpr murder, sawed their way out
of their cells in thG state penitentiary
hero last night and during a severe
thunderstorm, scaled the prison walls
and escaped.
GREEKS HOLD
People Protest Against Occu
pation of Territory by the
Bulgarian Forces.
Saloniki, Aug. 26. Via Paris, 5:55
a. m. A large popular moeting .was
held here last night to protest against
the occupation of Greek territory by
the Bulgarians. It was followed by
a demonstration for Venlzelos and the
singing of the national anthem. The
crowd then marched to the headquar
ters of General Sarrail, the French
commander, and sang the "Marseil
les." A formal protest against the
Bulgarian occupation was drawn up
and left with the prefect of police.
Dispatches from Athens say the
government is much concerned about
the Liberal party manifestation which
Is being organized for Sunday and
threatens to hold counter demonstra
tions of supporters of the king.
oo
Brass Bands, Giant Firecrack
ers and Noisy Greeting for
Republican Campaigner.
TALKS IN GREELEY
Democrats Fail to Reduce
Prices and Shamelessly Be
tray Merit System.
Denver, Colo., Aug. 26. Charles E.
Hughes reached Denver shortly before
noom today to a welcome of brass
bands, giant firecrackers and cheers
from thousands of persons, who gath
ered at the station and along tho
streets through which he passed The
nominee was feeling better than he
had felt for days and showed only a
trace of fatigue.
Headed by a squad of mounted po
lice and brass bands the nominee and
his party paraded through the busi
ness section of the city before going
to their hotel. Tho line of flag-bedecked
automobiles extended for
blocks. Giant firecrackers were fired
as a salute along the line of mnrch.
After a fefv minutes' rest at his ho
tel, Mr. Hughes went to the luncheon
of tho Mile-High club, where he inado
an address.
Hughes in Greeley.
Greeley, Colo., Aug. 26. Charles B.
Hughes, in a ten-minute address in the
city park hero today, summarized his
chief attacks on the administration
and his own policies as follows:
"Our opponents said they would re
duce the cost of living. They haven't
reduced the cost of living.
"They said they would enforce the
merit system in government. They
have shamelessly betrayed tho merit
system in government.
"They said they were for the main
tenance of the constitutional rights of
American citizens throughout tho
world.
Allowed Murder of Citizens,
"They have left our citizens to be
, murdered and their property to be de
stroyed right here in Mexico, close to
our boundary.
"They did say they were opposed to
a tariff for protection.
"That they carried out with the re
sult that before the European war
broke out, unemployed men were
walking the streets of our cities, job
less, asking for work and having to
be fed by countless charitable organ
izations. "I want to see efficiency in govern
ment, efficiency in business, effici
ency in tho execution of all laws re
lating to governmental activity. I de
sire to see a contented people living
under just laws as fellow worklngmon,
fellow laborers in a splendid co-oper-ativo
enterprise.
"That is what free institutions
mean."
CAPTAIN WHO SANK .
IOTAMA HONORED
London, Aug. 26. 12:10 a. m. The
Stifts-Tidinden of Ribo, Denmark, Is
quoted in a Router dispatch from Cop
enhagen as saying the commander of
tho submarino which sank tho Lusi
tanla was Captain Max Valentluer,
son of the dean or Sondersburg ca
thedral. Captain Valentiner, this
newspaper says, has been decorated
with a number of orders sinco the
sinking of tho Lustiania, including the
iron cross of the first class, and the
Hohenzollern house order with swords,
a special distinction which Is the
personal gift of the German emperor.
NEGOTIATIONS FOR AVERTING BIG I
R.MUM STRIKE IN DEADLOCK .
President Wilson Suddenly Leaves White House and Goes to
Capitol to Confer With Administration Leaders Brother-
hood Leaders Unqualifiedly Stand for the Eight- lH
Hour Day Railroad Executives "Put It Up to j
Wilson" to Get Some Guarantee From lH
Congress to Permit More Revenue to j jB
Meet Increased Wages. jH
Washington, Aug. 26. With nego-i
tiations for averting the threatened
railway strike practically at deadlock,
President AVilson today suddenly weni
to the capitol and conferred with ad
ministration leaders over the possibil
ity of legislature.
The president conferred first with
Democratic Leader Kern and Chair
man Newhfnds of the Interstate Com
merco Committee, who it was under
stood after a canvass of the congres
sional situation, had concluded it was
feasible to get through congress be
fore adjournment, as an amendment
to the pending bill to increase the
membership of the Interstate Com
merce Commission, some sort of an
expression that the railway should bo
authorized to make rate increases to
meet higher wages and to provide
some sort of machinery for arbitration
fpr similar disputes in the future, pos
sibly along the lines of tho Canadian
commission.
Just before the president went to
the capitol, the brotherhood leaders,
impatient at the delay of tho railroad
executives in replying to the presi
dent's last proposal, declared that only
the unqualified concession of the
eight-day or some action by congress
to cause the government to operate
the railroad could prevent the threat
ened strike.
Crisis is Reached.
On all sides the president's visit
to the capitol was taken as indicating
that the situation had reached a crisis.
When he finished conferring with
Senators Kern and Newlands, Presi
dent Wilson came to the door of his
room and said to inquirers:
"I came heer on certain matters of
legislation. That is all I can say
now."
Then after making the foregoing, an
nouncement. President Wilson re
turned to the White House without
conferring with any one else and with
out making any further explanation of
his visit. Senator Newlands stated
positively that no joint session of
congress had ben arranged. I
Later it was learned at the capitol
that the president told the senators
the railroad executives had "put it
up to him" to get . some guarantee
from congress that they would be per
mitted to get more revenue to meet
the Increase in wages. It was said no
means of accepting that end was
agreed upon.
Brotherhoods Silently Await Action.
Washington, Aug. 26. The threat
ened railroad strike situation look on
added density today as the railway
executives continued their delibera
tions over the form of their counter
proposals to President Wilson's plan,
and the brotherhood leaders silently
awaited the next move.
Tho executives have been told that
the men's leaders expect difficulty'in
restraining them after tonight.
The presidents worked steadily all
morning paraphrasing their statement
to President Wilson, but shortly after
noon had taken no final vote on It.
Will Not Concede Eight-Hour Day.
As has been outlined, unofficial', it
declines to concede the eight-hour
day without arbitration and investlga.
tion of its application to railroading,
but makes some concessions as to col
lateral issues.
The effect of the executives' coun
ter proposal will bo to pass the Issue
back to the brotherhoods.
Some of the railway executives say
their proposition is positively their
last; some of tho men's leaders stand
firmly against arbitration. Others on
both sides have hopes that out of it
all will come further negotiations de
laying a strike and possibly avert
ing it.
Mediation Board Statement.
A statement issued by the fedoral
board of mediation today on tho set
tlements It had conducted was re
gnrded as significant. It described a
report about to be made to tho sen
ate, which will disclose that in every
case of settlements conducted under
the old Erdman act or the later New
lands law substantial advantages have
been won by the employes through
arbitration. The only Instance re
corded where the men did not benefit
was a settlement made without the
participation of tho federal mediators.
President Wilson regards tho situ
ation as serious, but Uis not given up
hope of a settlement. .
Crisis Seems Imminent.
Washington, Aug. 26. Tho crisis in
the negotiations looking to avoid
ance of a nation-wide railway strike I'l
appeared Imminent today, when a ifll
counter proposal involving arbltra-
tion was proposed by the railroad.
presidents for final submission to
President Wilson. On the acceptabil- :
ity of this proposal by the railroad lll
brotherhoods' committee of 640, de- f Hl
pended largely whether the presi-
dent's personal efforts to mediate 1
shall fail. Heretofore the brother- I
hood leaders have stood firm against i
any plan to arbitrate their demand
for nn eight-hour day as a basis in
determining wages. ll
The railroad executives met early ll
today to perfect the draft of their IH
proposal and were expected to send it j
immediately to President Wilson, who i lM
had an engagement with the brother- YM
hood leaders about noon. ffll
Presidents for Arbitration. Hl
The railroad presidents contend for iilH
arbitration on the ground that an iuH
eight-hour basis day, sought by the HH
brotherhoods, Is actually a question Rl
of wages rather than of working hours
and consequently is properly subject 1
to arbitration. 1
Further, they proposed that if tho 1
arbitrating board, which might be the
Interstate Commerce Commission, or
some other public body to be creatd, ll
finds wage increases should be
granted, the order would be consider- IH
ed effective from the time arbltra- I
tion begins, and a fund would be cs- S
tabllshed by tho railroads to insure j
such back payments. The employes
would be bound notrto make further
demands nor to strike pending the .
Investigation.
This answer of the railroad execu
tives would amount to a partial re
jection of President Wilson's com
promise plan, whereby the railroads
were to concede the eight-hour day lH
and all other questions In dispute IH
were to be arbitrated. ll
Some members of the brotherhood lH
committee, although still hostile to lH
arbitrating the eight-hour demand, lH
were said to favor taking tho rail- fil
roads' proposal under advisement and vl
continuing negotiations next week. iH
Commander of the Deutsch-
land Called on for Innum- 1
erable Speeches.
SENDS LOVE TO U. S. H
Owners Glad That Americans
Greeted Gennadi Feat With j
Much Satisfaction.
Bremen, Aug. 26 .via London, 5:30
p. m.) The celebration of tho return
yesterday of the submarine Deutsch-
land to this port after its voyage to )
the United States, was kept up-until fll
after midnight. In the early hours Hl
of this morning the streets, especial- IH
iy thoso near the historic town hall, flH
were still thronged with crowds wait- jH
ing for Captain Paul Koenig and his 1
During the ovcnlng Captain Koenig jH
was obliged to mako innumerable jH
speeches. He was on the verge of fll
exhaustion when he retired with the H
crowd still clamoring for him and fll
singing "Deutschland Uber Alles."
To tho Associated Press correspond- ll
cnt the captain reiterated his great Hl
satisfaction at the treatment accord- SH
ed him at Baltimore nl
Sends Love to Americans. KH
"Send tho American people my SH
love," he said, "they are good sports- Sl
men. They treated me finely." fll
Tho homeward trip was without un- lH
usual incidents. No British warships fl
were seen, the captain said, after ho nH
left American territorial waters. AH
TEXTILE PLANT SHUTS DOWN. $
Fall River, Mass., Aug. 26. Fifteen
hundred employes of tho American iiH
Printing company, a textile manufac- tfH
turlng concern, were thrown out of Hl
work tonight when the company ffjH
closed its plant for an indefinite pe- fH
rlod. The deoision to close followed IH
a strike of 250 employes for a read- ll
justment of wages and working hours.
