1
MR. MERCHANT.
An ad In The Eugle will bring buyer
and teller together.
THI V.'ZAThlS
, Bryan and Vicinity; Tonight tzl
Sunday, generally fair.
AND PILOT
VOL XXX. NO. 198-
BRYAN, TEXAS, SATURDAY, AUGUST 26, 1916-
price M.co per aknlo.
iGmh Eater Mot Protest Against
Mwmm
Crisco
Is pare and wholesome
and keeps well in warm
a
weather.
FRESH STOCK
Hardy Newton
BITTERLY OPPOSE OCCU
PATION OF GREEK SOIL
SUR1ICE
Ml
IES
COMING
BNX
POLITICS
U
A Large Number of Life Companies
That Left Texas on Account of
Robertson Law Returning.
1 ACUTE 511
Second' Primary Being Held to Elect
U. S. Senator Sixty Per Cent
of Vote May Be' Polled.
Feeling of Greeks Against Bulgarians Is Bitter!
and the Protest Against 1 heir Occupation or
Greek Territory by Singing National Anthems.
The Bulgarians Attacked a Greek Fort After
, Killing the Commander and the Entire Garri
sonThe Bulgarians Also Claim the Serbians
Have Been Defeated on Macedonian Front.
The Fighting on the French Front Is Spirited,
But Without Important Results A British
Auxiliary Cruiser Wa$ Torpedoed and Sunk.
Pat-A-Cake
A Prepared CAKE FLOUR, nothing to add
water Phone us about it.
Reid Bros.
(By Associated Pwl
AuHtln, Texas, Auk. 26. It la learn
ed here that plans are In progress by I
several large life Insurance compan
ies, which withdrew from the state
(Br Associated Press.) :
n.,1lo. T Anr 9A Texas DfiM
Itlca had reached an acute stage to
day when the polls opened for a sec
ond primary to decide the Democratic
nomination for United States Senator,
Salonika, Aug. 26. Large and pop
ular mass meetings were held here
last night to proteat against Bulga
rian occupation of Greek territory.
The meetings were accompanied by
shouts for former Premier Venizelos
and the singing of the National an
thems.
E
War Summary.
Ixmdon, Aug. 26. The Bulgarians
have attacked and captured the Creek
seven years ago on account of the en-i . , . . .. ,j v. .kiM fort of Startila. after killing the com-
(WHICH ! IHJIHR wuir.ioM u . -.
i twteig
ght-Hour Day or Government Con
trol Only Can Prevent Strike,
Say the Employes.
HEW PAVEO STREET
TO Tl
OPEN
RAFF C
Paving Is Completed on West Ander
son Street to Read 8treet and
Traffio Started Today.
At exactly 11 o'clock this morning
the bars which have beld West An-
CAPTURED
liJ DOVER STH.'ITS
i (By Associated Piwn)
Washington. Aug. 26. The threat-
actment of the Robertaon Insurance I CulbenK,n present incumbent, and zander and the entire garrison, which meA railway strike situation took an
law, to return to Texas during the
early part of next year. There were
ineten of'tha larger Kastern life in
surance companies that withdrew'
when this law became effective, but
Oscar B. Colquitt, former governor.
offered a spirited resistance, says a added Intensity today as the railway
Thirty-Three of Crew Taken, Two
Perished Steel Net Used In
Taking the Submarine.
(Br Aaaoclatedress
New York, Aug. 26. The New York
City Timet News Association quotes
derson street closed to traffic for the (an officer of the British merchant ma-'
past several weeks, while same was rine, who arrived here Friday aboard
being paved, were shoved aside by the White Star steamship Baltic, as
City Engineer A. 8. Adams and this authority for the statement that the
gentleman Invited the citizens to German submarine Bremen has beea
trespass thereon to their hearts' con- captured by the British and 33 of her
tent. Mr. Adams himself. In a Ford, crew of 35 made prisoners. The B re-
was the first person to give the new men, according to the account, was
street a try out He announced at captured in the Straits of Dover In a
onco that it was a dandy. steel net on August I. Two members
The work on this street, while do- of her crew lost their lives. The B re
layed to soma extent oa account of man. it waa saM, while enmeshed la
a i - M. ,lniti i tiA Paris Matin 1 lkl. ilnllVtAV-a-
rri ..IJ.... M.oivail nliiralltlpa oiuui WUUTCH vuumiucu vui. I
over four opponents In the sUte pri- Tn dispatch was dated August 23rd, lIon, ow tne form of a counter pro- jinablllty to get material, was com- the net, was sighted by a British pa- -
Imary July 22. .At least 60 per cent of ut was delayed In transmission.
recently overtures were made look
ing 'to the re-entering of the Texas
field.
Ml
5
MEN
WE
EDI
BED
the state's voting strength of 500,000'
posal to President Wilsons plan, sneTpleted In a very short time. The Kaw trot boat her stern under water and
the brotherhood leaders silently wait-'paring Company, which did the work her bow hlEh above the surface. Af-
was expected to be polled. I Aner vea me ne more, me wuu.c )0, laying me espnau, ana Messrs ter endeavoring ror a lime to extrt
The question of endorsement of the nlnt th Gemsns launched an In- were told bjf tne meng leaders they ,SteagaIl and Jarrett. who laid the cate the wreck, the patrol boat eteam
Natlonal Democratic Mexican policy fanlrT urk WMt of TP"re' ,n expected difficulty In restraining jCurbt and gutters, are to be congrat- ed away for Dover with her prlaoners.
was one of the Issues In the race. Champagne, and penetrated the tnem tonight The railroad Ulated for the class of work they did. i According to the officer quoted, the
Former Governor Colquitt's excep. French position. Psrls announces, but presidents worked steadily all morn-jMr. Adams ssys thst tn all his rounds British government has maintained
lions to President Wilson's admlnls- ,ST nubsequently they were expelled. ng ina the fore part of the afternoon. )De has never seen any better. The silence In regard to the capture, as
. M.Tirn affairs have, been The German attacks on the Somme carefully preparing a statement to itreet Is now open. It Is fine, and If another German trans-Atlantic eub-
snd verdun rronis were repuisea. uu president w iison, out snomy auer you bave no way to ride out same, marine, the Amerika, was said to be
Verdun, the Germans attacked be-noon nta jgjjen no final vote on it As take a walk out thla way and see how on her way here, and It waa hoped to
tween neury ana i niaumoni, uui outlined unomciauy, u aecuneo. io DCe jt g- capture her also.
, concede the application to railroad-
cited as evidence of his alleged dis
cord with the present executive.
J Senator Culberson twice served as
governor of Texas from 1894 to 1898.1
In 1899 be waa chosen Democratic
A heavy attack by the Prusslsn
ing. but mskes some concessions aa to
Ground for Discharge Waa Having 'nom-jne for tne Vnlted Statea 8enate ,0ur,, against the British positions at conBteral issues. Among the brother
FamHIss at Home Dependent I .. . , t.r.i.tnr to aucceed Tblepval. on the Bomme front, was nooa officials thla afternoon It wal
Upon Them. I .., . repulsed by the British, London an-declared that only an unqualified con-
nouncea toaay. ceaaion oy ma rauroaus oi an oirui-
I The Bulgarian official statement ,nour day. or action of Congress tak-
I from 8ofla aays after severe fighting Unt 0ver the railroads for government
.Senator Roger Q
elected without opposition. He was
unanimously elected In 1905 and 1911.
He Is a resident of Dallas
(By AiSOcUted Pr.y
Ran Antonio, Texas. Aug. 28. Fif
teen hundred and eight guardsmen,
with persons dependent on them tor
support have leen discharged from ,ber of the Texas Railroad
border duty. It was announced today
at Fort Sam Houston.
' v. r,.1 . (V.r win Ml the jiiitiltl nHVMt a atrlWA
Oscar Branch Colquitt waa a mem-uu lu" --- ."i"""""".
Maceaonian ironu nv ocrumu. u.
Mrs. Malaprop Rssurractsd.
Mrs. Blunderby (to caller) While
passing your bouse yesterday I saw
the hospital avalanche drive up and
stop only a few doors away. ,
Caller The avalanche! ( Recovers
herself.) Oh, yes, a poor man Is very
111
Mrs. Blunderby Dear me! Nothing
contiguous. I ' hope. Boston Trsn
acrlpt.' '
Commis
sion from 1902 to 1910. In 1910 he
was elected governor over William
rolndexter, now Democratic National
committeeman from Texaa, and Cone
Johnson, present solicitor of the State
department. Mr. Colquitt was re
elected In 1912 over W. F. Ramsey,
now federal reaerva agent of the Dal
laa Federal Reserve Bank. He was
not a candidate In 1914. Mr. Colquitt
also lives In Dallas.
the
Political honesty might bo
policy. Why doesn't some
try It?
been defeated with heavy lossea and
compelled to retire. Eighteen con
secutive attacks were made by
Serbians.
The Berlin version of the Somme
Kightlng ssys the British attacas in
the Thlepval sector, and the French
attacks nesr Maurepas, were re
pulsed. Forty-alx prisoners were tak
en when the French trenches were
raided In Champagne.
Wilson To Cspltol.
Washington. Aug. 26. (Bulletin)
President Wilson went to the Capitol
today, presumably In connection with
the strike situation.
British Cruiser Torpedoed,
I.ondon. Aug. 26.-The torpedoing
The many friends of Mr. Ed Hall.
nrn.ldonl nf Mm First State Bank and
Trust Company, will be sorry to know in the North 8ea of a British naval
that h has been oulte alck the past 'auxiliary cruiser, with the loss of 23
good Vew daya. not being able to be at his men. was announced officially today.
He la reported Klghty -seven. Including eleven om
'cers, were saved.
party pout In the bank,
"some betrer today.
LI
1
VERY LIGHT VOTE
IS BEIKG POLLED:.
M
ran
n LB
Negro at Vivian Near Shrsveport,
Taken From Jail and Hung
by Mob.
SCIIOOiUI
www.w-. "" 1 """"
We Sell One of the .
Best Lines or
Medium Priced Cook Stoves
on the Market
If you need a first class cook stove for a small price
give us a call Sold on the easy payment plan In in
stallments of $1.00 and $2.00 a week.
t
03
(By Associated rrtss.)
Shreveport. La., Aug. 26. Jess
Hnmmeit. a negro accused of entering
tao bedroom of the wito of an oil
driller and attempting to criminally
aasault her, was taken from Jail at
Vivian twenty miles north of here
this afternoon by a mob and lynched
GREAT WAR GAME
A
IS
SUCCESS
Deutachland to Make Return Voyage.
Berljn. Aug. 26. (By wlreleaa to
Sayvllle.) Preparations for another
voyage of the submarine Deutachland
the United Statea are well under
way. Freight la being received lor
the trip. The amount of cargo now
Run-Off Primary Is Causing Little wady Is larger than had been expect
Interest In Braxoa County Mavadrthe Overseas News Agency says.
Vote 40 Per Cent! of StrawetK. All me members or tne crew nave ex
pressed readiness to sign for the next
Up to noon today very little Inter- Toyaae.
est had been ahown In the Senatorial
run-off primary whfrh la being held
to select a Senator to represent Tex
as In the National Congress. The
contenders. Senator C. A. Culberson I
and Hon. O. B. Colquitt's names com
pose the ticket and the task of vot !
Ing Is very small. It was predicted
by several men who are cloae ob
servers of elections that Bratoa coun
ty would not poll more than 40 per
cent of her Democratic voting
strength. This would moan that
there would be only about 700 votes
polled In the county. We are hoping
thst the prophets on this are wrong.
If you hate not yet voted you still
have plenty of time In which to do
aa Go right ahead and exerrlee the
privilege that every
American cltlien should be proud to
possess,
noon there had been 106 votes polled)
at the City Hall bog and II at tha Mrs. W. Y. 8elf of Port 8ull!vaii
Court House boi In the city of nryan. pent last night and today In the city
ts the guest of the family of her coualn.
L. If. Ha! torn of Benrhley vu iCU Beason. 8ha la en route homo
visitor In tba city today. from a vlalt to CaidweiL
ji i jij-j-j-j-Lfj-ij-inrj -r.-..-....-... .i,....
(By Aaaoclatwl Praa.
On board the Coaat Guard Cutter
McCullough. by wlreleaa to Seattle,
Aug. 26. The Polar schooner, Great
Bear, carrying an Arctic expedition
headed by John Boilen of Chicago
and Captain Lane of Seattle waa
wrecked on rorka In Bearing 8oa oa
August 10th. The vessel wss a to
tal loss, but the entire party waa
democratic naed r,r on 8t Mathews Island
where they were round yeaieraay oy
At two o'clock thla after-. th WCullough.
! American Naval Maneuvers to Study
Strategy and for Practice Coming
to Cloae.
(By Associated Prune.) 1
Washington. Aug. 26. The De-
J (ending squadrons In the giant naval
war game under admiral Helmben
fera destroyed theoretically by a
i hpstllo fleet under Admiral Mayo, an1
this afternoon the Invsdlng army Is
being theoretically landed on ton
Inland.
Even a straight laced man has been
known to go crooked.
WE D3ITT.WAIIT YOUR BANK ACCODuT
But We Do Want Yozr Attestica !
We want to remind you that we sell every
thing for the home. .We would like to show
you our stock of Furniture and Convince
you that HERE is the logical point at which
to make your purchases.
VJ. T. JAHEG, Furnituro
w ?"""",,?uuuirmv.v.v -j-jin-riAnj-j" -.-jirr.-rri '
