OHIO r'
u
UNIV.; ,,Y
auc : ;i . ,,o
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. IV. No. 19
CINCINNATI, OHIO, AUGUST 26, 1916
One Dollar a Year
Jge dborpA(i vo c dt e
Speedway Is A Disgrace To Cincinnati
Built By Tramps and With Unpaid Debts To Local Merchants. The Central Labor Council,
Consisting of Delegates From One Hundred and Sixty Unions, Back Up The Building
Trades Council, and Place the Speedway On the "We Don't Patronize" List.
Not That It Expects to Affect the Box Office Receipts, But As a Protest
Who Had the Audacity To Pull Such a Scheme Off.
The Central Labor Council last Tues
day night, unanimously endorsed the
Building Trades Council and placed the
ispccdvvay on the unfair list. Not that
it can damage the first day's box office
receipts, but as a protest against the
methods of the people who promoted the
scheme, and it was also understood that
these people will never he given the
privilege of the floor of the Council
again to exploit any scheme whatever.
Some of these men pretended to have
the interest of Cincinnati so much at
heart, and were so overflowing with civic
pride, that they appeared before the
Council advocating various political or
bond issues.
The Central Labor Council, upon mo
tion, will send the following letter to
each of the one hundred and sixty locals
affiliated with that body:
CKXTKAL LAHOK COUNCIL
of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Cincinnati, O., August 21, 1010.
lolicctoi OrganisedLabor and Friends,
rV w,Vr" " TZ Zl ""!?'
Tin- Speedway lias IJccn liitilt
It has been built by NON-UNION
LABOR, working at starvation wages
from sun-up until sun-down.
'J he Speedway was built for nleasm-e.
but it was not much of a pleasure for'
tne UiMUiv men ot this city, who have
large families to support, and who pay
taes m this city, walk the streets, while
outside Contractors got the rif-raf of the
earth to come in and build the Speed
way. ACCIDENTS WILL HAPPEN. But
there is a greater degree of danger atx
tached to the Speedway, because it was
built by men who did not understand
their business. THEY JUST WORKED
CHEAP AND THAT IS ALL THE
CONTRACTOR WANTED.
Remember that the Speedway will be
opened on Labor Day, and it is jour
duty to KEEP AWAY and get jour determine the number of votes the dele
friends to do the same. If it must be gates cast, but no delegate shall cast
patronized, 16t the rif-raf that built it more than five otes. Building Trades
patronize it. Councils and District Councils shall be
Again let us urge you to keep away, allowed one vote. A Building Trades
not only on Labor Day, but every day i Council or District Council and one
there is anj thing going on. Let the local union, or two local unions of the
owners of the Speedway understand that same craft located in the same city may
Labor in this city must be recognized. join in electing a delegate. Where the
Read this for three meetings, and then . delegate represents a Building Trades
post m a conspicuous place in your
meeting hall, so that jou can keep this
matter fresh in your minds.
Fraternally jours,
William Pkout,
Secretary' Central Labor Council.
P. S. The same crowd that put up
the money to build the Speedway are
the men that fought hardest to give the
American Book Company the contract
for school books, because it was cheap
non-union home labor. If they believed
in home labor at that time, why was the
speedway built bj outside labor?
William .-Miller Talks. I
Mr. William -Miller, President of the
Builders' Exchange, said : "That the '
way the Speedway was built was a dis
grace to Cincinnati. That his firm, J I.
Harig, and the Rochc-Bruner Com
pauj, had bid on the work, figuring up
on using union home labor, but that the
outside bidders was over fifty thou
sand dollars less than Rochc-Bruner
Company, who were the lowest of the
local bidders "
No self-respecting man who resides
in Cincinnati would dare to bring such
a dangerous gang of tramps into this
city to do that work and expect to lic
here and do business afterwards.
Cincinnati should hang her head in
shame, when she goes to Springliek to
get a man like T. A. Graham to bring
to this city a gang of rats as he did.
Everj' crime in the calendar, from
bootlegging to murder has been, com
mitted at the Speedway.
Ed. Ryan, the notorious contractor of
Reading Road pavement, is a partner
of Graham in the Speedway
Judging from the action of the Queen
The Building Trades Council
Elects Jos. A. Cullen Delegate To The Ohio Stale Build
ing Trades Council Convention, to Be Held In Toledo.
Roy Herbert Elected Aide to the Grand Marshal
Only Routine Business Transacted.
'I he regular meeting of the Building
Trades Council was called to order by
Vice-President Fischer.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
An application from Slate and Tile
Roofers Local No. 27 for affiliation with
the Council was referred to the Board
of Business Agents.
President Culleh, entered the,, hall, and
tookthe,chair.. , " . ..
read and filed for future reference
"Cincinnati, O., Aug. ", 1910.
"To All Local Building Trades Coun
cils and Local Building Trades
Unions of Ohio Greeting:
"The fourth annual convention of tile
Ohio State Building Trades Council
will convene on the 5th of October at
Memorial Hall, Toledo, Ohio, at 10:00
a. m. Headquarters will be at the Na
varre Hotel. Rates $1 and up, Euro
pean plan. Representation will be as
follows :
"Each local union, sending a delegate,
shall be entitled to one vote for eery
one hundred members or less, and one
additional vote for each additional one
hundred members or majority fraction
thereof. The amount of per capita tax
the local pays into the treasuiy shall
Council or District Council and a local
union, he shall be entitled to one vote
for the Building Trades Council or Dis
tiict Council and such votes for the
local union as it shall be entitled to by
the per capita tax paid. Where the
City Supply Co , they don't even pay
their debts, as that firm placed a mechan
ics' lien for $1.1,82 1.21 against the Speed
w ay.
The company alleges the amount is
due from T. A. Graham, sub-contractor
at the Speedway, for "labor, material
and machinery-."
A bill attached to the suit sets out
accounts for saws, hatchets, nails and
similar at tides.
The promotcis, Messrs. E. W. Ed
wards, of the E W. Edwards Co.;
Uarrv S. Lcunan. of the l.cvman-Muick
- ' t t is....:,. f .i, 1.W.4 V
tional Bank, and others arc no doubt
proud of the fact that thev could build
this death-trap without the, use of un
ion labor.
TEETERS TRIAL DELAYED
The trial of Emery Teeters, one of
four union painters indicted on chaige
of murder and complicity in the shoot
ing of James Shall, non-union painter,
at Christ Hospital, December !), was
continued Monday by Judge Nippert one.
week at the request of Attorney A. G
Frickc, because of the absence of asso
ciate counsel, Thos. J Cogan. The heat
ing will be before Judge Fred Hoffman,
delegate represents two local unions the
total per capita tax paid by both unions
shall determine the number of votes
the delegate casts.
"The Ohio State Building Trades
Council is fast becoming one of the
most potent factors in Ohio, and is
filling a long-felt want in the Building
Trades, and manv matters of imnort-
ancc.to the Building Traded will come
before, the . convention.. andr.we expect
history
"If your local lias not affiliated, find
enclosed application and credential.
Initiation fee, Building Trades Coun
cils or District Councils, $. per year;
local unions initiation', $2. Dues one
cent per member per month.
"Fraternally yours,
"Tuos. H. Mugavin,
"Sec.-Treas. and General Organizer."
The secretary will ask all affiliated
locals to affiliate with the Ohio State
Building Trades Council, as it is abso
lutely necessary that the council have
as large a delegation at Toledo as pos
sible. Joseph A. Cullen was elected delegate
to the Ohio State Building Trades
Council.
The report of the Labor Day Com
mittee was read and adopted.
Roy Herbert, of the Stationary En
gineers, was elected aide to the Grand
Marshal.
Business Agent Hock read his regu
lar report, which was ordered received
and filed.
The minutes of the Board of Busi
ness Agents, announcing that Patrick
Ilarrigan had been elected vice-president,
was read and concurred in.
All trades reported business good.
There being no further business, the
meeting adjourned, to meet next Thurs
day night.
COL. GEORGE POPE
President of I lie National Manufac
turers' Association, Butts Into
the Itailrond .Strike, Hut Presi
dent Wilson Puis Him in His
Place.
Washington. Replying to a telegram
from George Pope, president of the Na
tional Manufacturers' Association, ask-
: ,i,, i, ,,.,,, ,t, lll.:,ir.;lli ,.r .....
V.'h """ ".- I"--""-"- . i"-"-i-7-
titration in connection with the rail
roads controersv President Wilson de
clared there was now no means to en
force arbitration, that his plan strength
ened the principle and that it conceded
nothing except the eight-hour day, "to
which the whole economic movement ol
the time seems to point."
ONK CHILI LAIiOK IXSPKCTOK.
Atlanta, Ga. The state senate has de
feated an amendment providing for two
factory inspectors to enforce the child
labor law. It was agreed by these law
makers that one inspector, at a salary
of $1,200 a ''ear, is sufficient to cover
this state, which is 1120 miles from north
to Eouth pud 2.")4 miles at its extreme
width.
Grand Marshal of
Labor Day Parade
Is To Be Philip Fischer, of
Thousand Persons Are Expected To Be In Line
September 4.
Philip Fischer, Business Agent of
Steam Fitters' and Helpers' Union, will
be Grand Marshal of the Labor Day
parade. lie was selected last Sunday
morning by the Labor Day Committee.
Frank Hammer, Secretarj'-Treasurer
and Business Agent of Teamsters'
Union, was chosen First Assistant'GfafTd
Marshal. " James Davis, 'Business Agent
of. t,heiironWorkcrsUnion. .will be
Second Assistant Grand-'MSrsHnlP'-
Nearly 20,000 persons are exfiected to
be in the parade, which, ft is said, will
be one of the largest labor pageants ever
held in Cincinnati. It will be made up
of seven divisions. Thirtj" bands will
participate.
The place of honor, that of leading
the First Division, was assigned to In
ternational Association of Machinists
whose members are now on strike
Brewery Workers' Union will lead the
Second Division. The Third Division,
which will be made up of crafts of the
Krauk Hammer,
First Assistant Grand Marshal.
Building Trades Council, will be headed
by Electrical Workcis' Union,
Barbers' Union will lead the Fourth
Division; Iron Moldets' Union No -4
the Fifth; Boot and Shoe Workers'
Union the Sixth, and Bakers' Union the
Seventh.
Officers of the Central Labor Council
and Building Trades Council in auto
mobiles will lead the parade. The di
visions of the procession will be com
posed of the following:
Division No. 1 Machinists, foui
unions, and the stieet car men.
Division No. 2 Brewery Workers,
three unions; Motion Picture Operators
and Laundry Workers.
Division No. II Electrical Workers,
Painters and Paper Hangers, eleven
unions; Lathers, Sheet Metal Workers, I
three unions; Plumbers, Steam Fitters, I
Building Laborers, Architectural Iron
Workers, Hod Carriers and Hoisting
Engineers.
Division No. -I Barbers, Teamsters,
and Cigar Makers.
Division No. 5 Iron Molders, Farm
ers' Union and Coopers.
Division No. 0 Boot and Shoe Work
ers, four unions; Garment Workers,
Against the Men
Steamfitters' Union. Twenty
Stationerj- Firemen and the Chester
Park Carnival Companj-.
Division No. T Bakers, Axle Forgers,
Pattern Makers, Steel Range Workers,
Leather Workers, Range1 Workers,
Phil Fischer,
Grand Marshal.
Wreckers and Riggers and Steam En
gineers. Numerous floats and decorated auto
mobiles will feature the procession.
Many of the crafts will use machines,
among them the women garment work
ers, who intend to have an artistic rep
resentation Fprming at Findlaj and Race street,
.1. M. Davis,
Second Assistant Grand Marshal
the parade will tart promptlj at 10 a.
m , proceeding south on Race street to
Thirteenth, cast to Main, south to
Fourth, west to Plum, north to Ninth,
cast to Walnut and north to Twelfth,
where it will disband.
(Continued on page 2 )
flHlHHflHHflft.
If " Jfl'
S 'i
MB'-" ll
M
