THE COLFAX CHRONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 1909
A Democratic journal, devoted to Local and Gcneral Ncwe, Literature, Science, Hgriculture, Etc.
VOL. XL COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, AUGUST 26, 1916 NUMBER 45
Fall Gardening in the South.
Hc me gardeners in near!y all sections
of the south and sou'hwest where crops
have been gath( red or are now nearing
maturity. need not reconc:l. themselves
to the exi:tence of bare or u' product- C
ive landi from now until r,.xt s; ring.,
acco:inrg to gar den spt 'ia+ists of the c
U. 5. Departirent of Agriculture.
Witi. juicious ch, i:e of crops and lo
cati-.s,. they may plant secus from now
unti: October or N;,vemi er, and should.
as a result, have fall. wint r and spring 1
vegetables.
In many sections of the south, toma
to plants have succumbed to the strain
of high temperature and dryness. In
some localities they will jive and con
tinue to Lear until fall, but in others -
they will not survive. A new crop '
should be planted now, and it may be
profitable to tre- the experiment of
planting both in the open ground, where
the plants are to remain, and :n frames
for transplanting. The frames or beds E
should be located in a relatively cool, I
shady place. The same plan of field
and frame planting may be used for
cabbage seedings. If the field planting
should not survive the grower is pro
tected by having onihand the frame
grown plants. Ordinarily the seed
planted direct to the field will produce
an earlier crop than seed planted in a
frame and transplanted.
Among the vegetables which may be
planted at practically any time during <
the summer, with fair assurance of suc
ces, are beans. Bush squash may also
be planted even in the hottest weather
if they have not been made a part of
the garden at an earlier season. With
the beginning of August practically the
entire list of ordinary vegetables is
open to the fall gardener for choice.
Beets, parsnips, carrots, celery, sweet
corn, radishes, lettuce and peas may be
planted at this time.
Later in the month and (luring the
early part of Septenbier, kale, spinach, c
ustard, turnips. co iards and parsley
be planted. DUrin S ptem
ber oi.ion uld be put out and in
October, and eve uonion seeds
may be p'anted for a spring crop.
BtsIdes severa: crops of turnips, S
among the crops of these late plantings t
which the -outhern garden:er wiii tind
available for winter use, are Leerts and i
the other roout crops, such as parsnips
and carrots, and kace, collards, spinach
and mustard. Many of tinc plants may t
be carried by sagnt protection even
into quite cod weather without suffer
ing damage. T, the crops which will
be carried over for devel, pir:ent in the
early spring sr.ould be added salsify or
oyster plant, wnich may be planted E
practically any time during the late!
summer or early fall.
Grant Parish Singing Convention.
The GrarnT Part:n grg;ng Convention I
met Sur.uay, Aug.,zt 2u. with Zion Hlii
church, an, co..;e!.ci g the i:.tense `
heat, a large crya ,d was p, "-eot.
In the tore.soon ti.e ac r'al classes
asst mbled j ,tly in g-:: .ai singrng
led by the respective leaders, after K
which prayer was offered by Rev.
Brown.
After much enthuia-m:ic singing the
order of busine.;s n.i s ca. f,:, during I
wh:ch tle iiuow. :g ,cthrs were elect
ed: J. W. Smith .csiUud; Jim Loo
per, vice pie-dent; R. L. W ,namson,
Ssecretary.
The , ;der of bu .in..s b-ir.n over the
m e :nrg aj.rned ,r .t. , w.tch
the good pe ie' of Z on 1r.l and otner
comn:.u, ie had t.Janitiri: prepare:i,
ser.,ig c:, 0 u-;, cry .ne rr, scnt.
At crne o . k ted conlve!tsl.l .t'w;
cased to or,!,, r w·.t.1 t,;e fol; ..vulg e.a -
es ·prs. rt: Za. Hi., 5 as Sm:th,
lea1m; Dry I'ro'nC, J. W. mnsthl, cad
er; Bent cy. VW. , ':.kr. ialer.
Each cn-s c!;,c-d tli. c'.,: '-t with
three sog-. t: r w .h .M,.-,-rs. \\ a.-i
ker. Frikn .n, I...lper and Walke. re.t
dered an i,,'crtstin:g number by sang
ing a qluatet.
Toe l'r:grmn beinizr con:icted th.,i
c). '~ ;, 'a j au c i ? I ii tt w i
Bethel church on the tiiird 5 :ntday in
Novenmber.
J. W. Sxtiri,
R. L. WILLIA.MSO, Prezident.
Secretary.
A Summer Laxative and Liver Rtegu
lator.
Po-Do-Lax is a liquid laxative-mild
ind effective. It arouses the liver, in
creases the bile, does not gripe and
acts as a general tonic, to the whole
system. Aids nature to clear and puri
fy the blood-as a laxative tonic for
sumner Po-Do Lax has no equal. What
was "good enough for my father is
good enough for me" never applied
~ ith more force than the use of Po
Do-Lax for the liver. An old time
tried remedy. Get a bo:tle, take a
dose to-night and see how much better
you feel. At all druggists.-Adv.-3.
Send us your job printing orders.
The Mother Argument.
The strongest argument in fa
vor of woman suffrage is the
mother argument. I love my
children as much, I think, as a
father can; but I am not in the `
same class with my wife. I do
not put any father in the same
class with the mother in love for
the child. If you would know
why the mother's love for a child
is the sweetest, tenderest, most
lasting thing in the world, you
will find the explanation in the
Bible: "Where your treasures
are there will your heart be also."
The child is the treasure of the
mother; she invests her life in
her child. When the mother of
the Gracci was asked: "Where
are your jewels?" she pointed to
her sons. The mother's life
trembles in the balance at the
child's birth, and for years it is
the object of her constant care.
She expends upon it her nervous
force and energy; she endows it
with the wealth of her love. She
dreams of what it is to do and be
- and, O, if a mother's dreams
only came true, what a different
world this world would be. The
most pathetic struggle that this
earth knows is not the struggle
between armed men upon the
battlefield; it is the struggle of a
mother to save her child when
wicked men set traps for it and
lay snares for it. And as long
as the ballot is given to those
who conspire to rob the home of
a child it is not fair-no one can
believe it fair-to tie a mother's
hands while she is trying to pro
tect her home and save her child.
If there is such a thing as justice,
surely a mother has a just claim
to a voice in shaping the environ
ment that may determine wheth
er her child will realize her hopes
or bring her gray hairs in sorrow
to the grave. Because God has
planted in every human heart a
sense of justice, and because the
mother argument makes an irre
sistible appeal to this universal
sense, it will finally batter down
all opposition and open woman's
pathway to the polls.-Wm. J.
Bryan.
We doubt if many farmers re
alize the possibilities in the pro
duction of crimson clover seed
for the market. Yields of from
four to seven bushels per acre
are common, and prices now are
from $7 to $S a bushel. When
we remember that it is easy to
harvest a crop of clover seed and
make a good corn crop on the land
the same year, it would set-m
that more of our farmers woui'i
engage in the productin of mar
ketable clover seed. The Pro
gressive Farmer.
Today.
"Today is your day and mine; the
only day we have; the day in which
we play our part."--Selected.
Steadfast Confidence
the Following Statement Should Form
Condlusie Proof of Merit to
E rr· Crolfax Reader.
C'.Ad strongE; pr,)f ,f the merit of
any prdt: tI i .-ir.d than the stat'
ti,,:r c ..i::. ..:. L.ai b' - t:: - ' i V . -:,d$
by lap4;e of ti:.i? The. are the kL.d
of stbtenme!2ts hat are ap!.earir g in
your 'ocal ;a,;.rs for IjDan's Kidiiey
Pills. They are twic,-ti;d and con
firm-d with new enthu-iz.;m. Can any
reader d,ubt the f:l.,win~g? It's frm
a resident Af A!lx'ndrira.
E. M. Wells, ',4 St. Ann St., Alex
andria, says: "I have used Doan's
Kidney Pills and am glad to say that
they have relieved me of a too fre
quent action of my kidn'ys." (State
ment given May 1, 1911.)
CONVIN'ING I'ROOF.
Over two years later. Mr. Wells
said: "I can't say enough in praise of
Doan's Kidnyv Pills, for they have
done me a wonderful lot of good."
Price 50c at all dealers. D)on't simup
ly ask for a kidney remedy get Duan's
Kidney Pills-the same that Mr. E. M.
Wells bad. Foster-Milburn Co., Props.
Buffalo, N. Y.-Adv.
The Short Course at Natchitoches.
Because of the progressive attitude
taken by the banks of Grant parish, I
we sent more boys to the short course it
in agriculture at Natchitoches than did Ir
any oth.r parish in the State. The
short course was held last week, Aug. ,
14th to 19th, and Farm Demonstration .,
Agent Benton was in Natchitoches on to
Wednesday at which time he grouped
the Grant parih boys, counted heads u
and took a photograph of them. He
found twenty -seven boys who reside in in<
the parish of Grant and all of them tt.
together made a good showing.
The boys were given class room in- e`
struction in the forenoon by represen- li
tatives from the State University, the $
State Normal, the Progressive Farmer 1b
and demonstration force. In the after- yr
noon they were given concrete demon
strations on subjects discussed in the or
class room. All of the beef used to di
teed the boys during their course came t
from steers that were used in demon- d
stration of stock judging, feeding and 's
slaughter. Ti
This was the second annual short
course held at the State Normal, the
second time that the Bank of Colfax or
has sent seven boys to the school, and to
the second time that Grant parish has "
had more boys ; resent than any ther t
parish in tile State. As an evidence tl
that the good V urk will go on. talk tl
with the boy a who att:lnde'the course, to
and consider the fact that the other of
ba:,ks of the parish are becoming in
terested ihi the short course also. The iia
B .rik of Po,iJck sent a deserving boy ib
from their territory this year.
The following boys from Grant at- e
tended the course: Alien Hodnett, aB
James Shaw, Fred Williams, Odus a.
Fietcher, Adrian Bryant, John Amburg, .
Owen Fletcher, Willie Arrington, Don- l,
ley Westberry, Roy West, Fred Nu
gent, Ciyde Thompson, F. L. McKay, El
Herd Ober, Loyd Wilson, Mac Roach,
Gus Hodnett, Robert Hodnett, Herman
Starks, A. B. McKay, Archie Robi- j.
nett, Elby Mcllwain, Alton Mcllwain,
DeLeon Bryant, Y. D. Worsham and 't
Crawford Fietcher. bi
Eyesight Restored After Years of
Blindness.
Mrs. W. H. Williams, aged 85, '"
mother of Mr. W. P. Hayne, and
a resident of Boyce, lost her eye- 71
sight about four or five years ago,
but when she awoke recently she
was amazed to find she was no
longer blind. She called all her 'i
children to notify them that she "
can now see objects and to go
get all her relatives, that she
waited to see them again with
out delay.
A Doctor's Remedy for Coughs. E
As a cure for coughs and colds Dr.
Bell's Pine-Tar-Honey combines these
remedlies in just the right proportion
do tle most good for summer coughs
or colds. A trial will prove the value
of this splendid cough medicine. Dr.
Bell's Pine-Tar-Honey soothes the ir
ritation, stops your cough, kills the g
cold germs and does you a world of L
good. A 25c bottle will more than con- 14
since you-it will stop your cough. At p
druggists. --Adv.-3. si
Official Proceedings of the Grant Par
ish School Board. p
Colfax, La., July 22, 1916.
Pursuant to adjournment on July 8, a,
1316, the board of school directors of º
the parish of Grant, La., met in legal a
session to consider the question of ti
nancing the schools of the parish. H
The board was called to order by the
president with J. H. McNeely, E. A.
Wail, T. C. Linccum, N. S. Roberts T
and M. E. Jackson present; A. W. t,
Stewart aid I. J. Rhinehart absent. Ir
A quorum being present the board
proceeded to transact the following
bu-iness:
l!" w fl,,aib. h rraollutiin wasr offErel by N. S. P
Wiwllliris. , n tlhr i h bl gi bU a rrqouiet mnade of
thi- -ch.o,,,l I ,,red t.s aulnne if tile tax-paye.rs of I
aid-l two. ak.liii that a ipi.i'ial eletiiio h e or- o
, I,,d ill a id for th ~.ild uard. at whirh iball 5
To levy a tax o,! fiv, mtlls for five years on all
rhp.'rty i wird ti,,. Graiit parish. 1.nieliana.ns
nr thal t frua,.tilal part ia e~ih.ol distrk-t No. 6
hl~wated partly la ward 3. nuje.t to taxation. t
nliuall;, fIr a periuud of fiveyears. thefundesI
thii lsrivedl t bte apportionid aicordini to I
tii, astiureuntit valn itioils of thi orilhlA a
'Ihoiil diitri-t iibil- ivillt oiLi to iuCh origoial
,s'hil di trit sti,-diviiin afir tu i nith e oriigi
ita -.+'i)l,i dw*tri t ub iviiin li f sa idl ward 2 a
alid that fraBt.-i )luI part of nihool dlistrict No. i
Ihnatul it, airl :, aid fund. to be ut for glr- L
W hriva.i. ii Ihi+i i ,piniili of thi I,,iurd suhrb a
ci,-,-' nction ii* inui'-niiiary all adtvia~Iie,
luren if thi i'.tri-h i, f Grinrlt. L.oubiauna, as I,.L
,-lti-tn I. That a lti-il eetin .ie and the
.imn in heriiy . rdi.rwl t- I.e hbefl It ll ward two
ainil i that i r.lti-nii al tpart oii .,'bi, l di i trict N I,. I
I,,datil ii, ars l tlir., trtni t iparisaL. L.a.. ,n
at atliih tinu iIhiill hC ubtmitted the folilinM
iiropsaitioli. to- sit:
'itUtirSITlI N
t, Ivy a p-ial ta ofl lie rmillre m ao the dolliart
iii all prinyrty In wartl two alidl that Traiuala
j .a-t of hbusul diLtrict o. 6 lcaraLd il wasUl ,
crant parish, Louisiana, subject to State taxn
tion, alnnally. for a perlod of ive years. twan
ling aith the rear 1916 and endliuc with the year
IrU. both years inclulsive, the fllads thus derived
to to apportioned ai.tording to the aseraments t
of the original withool district sub-dlllvison to i
stt-nIh original wth,,ol district sob-diviiaona for
uae InI the original school district sub-diviasion 1
of said ward and that fractional part of r-hool
district No. 6 hI.ated in warn three. said finds
to be used for general educatiolnal pulrpoms. S
Sation 2. That tilhe meerettary of this board tIn
and he is hereby inrtructed to have prepared for
use at stid r·tietion a uumt-icent iunltter of ballotst
on each of which shaltl be printed tihel roplsititon t
itentlotital ii Section I of this resnlution, and in tl
the tollow ingform:
Iital'aO)ITIiN.
Proposititon to levy a special tax of a
five mills on t -e dollar on all proper- Ye
ty in ward two atnd that fractional 8
part of school district No. 6 located p
in ward three. Grout parish. La.. ub- a
lect to State taxatiotn. annIually, for
ta iwriod of flive ears. beginning with f
the year ISl anld ending with the I
year 192WL. both years irl(haive. the
talnid thusi derived to be apporrttioned
acci-ltrdlilg to the arsiessaleits f the No
o)riginIal schoo)l diatrict sul-livisions ta
to stuch original schiool district nlb
dirvilults for use in th. original achool
dlistrict sub-divicitons of said aard
lt awo d that fractinal part ofit school
district No. 6 located ill ward three.
said funds to, be used for general edu- h
catiot.al purposes. 0
Taxable valuation $ ............. ......................
Signature of voter ............. .......................
NOTICE TO VOTER. a
To vote In favor of the proposiltion submitted v
on this ballot place a (X) nmark in the square at
tir the word Ye., and to vote against tile propuo a
altion place a similar mark lu the square after a
the word No. a
Anil the necretary of this board be and he is
hereby insteueted to have prelared for use at I
the said election all the necaseary ballot boxes, t
tally sheet*. lists of voters, assessed valuatlon
of proulerty and conipiled statements of voters
Io nunlber and amount.
.Setion 3. That the voters of that fractional
part of s,-h.nl ditltrict No. 6 loated in ward :1.
shall have the right to participate anld vote at r
the Bruce pi ciact In the said ward 2.
Section 4. That the polling places for the said
election shall be at Polluck. Bruce, Suimms and
Bagdad pre-lncts, and the follownlag shall serve
as commissioners and clerks of election:
olltock--). J. Hattaway, W. P. Guynes and
W. II. Singley comlaasiloniers; Fulton O'Qulllu.
clerk.
Bruce--Otverton Thompson. It. B. Roach and
Klisha l.ewis.comlnlisloner;: O. L. Nagentlerk. 1
Shnuts-W. E. Chandler, John Curry and Ben
(iarllngton. comlmissioners: J. H. Coulson, elerk
Bagdad--M.C. Buckner. John M. Anthony and c
J. I.. Gray, conmissioner.; L. i. Hadnot, clerk. t
The said election shall be held under the State
law applicable thereto.
S.ectlon 5. That the president of thls board I
hereby Instructed to give nties of the special
election herein ordered by his proclamatiou, toi
be published airording to law, and In the said
proclamation lie shall annuauce that at II o'
cltwk iu Sept. 5. 1916. this board will meet at
their ollfee at the court honor at i'ollax, Gralint
parish. La.. to open the ballot box, exanlsr
anld coulnt the ballots In nuatlier aund aloant, I
examine and canvass the retuors, and declare
the result of, the elettlon.
The motion made by N. S. Roberts for the I
adoption ,of the above restoltion was seconded
by T. C. I.iue.-um, and bring placed before the
board by the chair it was llnanimously adopted.
all of the itemnbers present voting in the almirms
tive, and the chair announced it carried.
J. H. McNEEI.Y,
J. N. WARNER. President.
Secretary.
The following ordinance was introduced. I
and being duly seconded, it was unani- t
mously adopted; to wit:
AN ORDIINANCE
Forming Christian Hope Distrlit No. .J6
ouit if the prevent Christian Hope Did
trict No. 16 and Tison District No. 17.
which said districts cumonise Ward
Five, and to distribute all funds de
rived fpom special school tax elections
?in said tonsolidated districts according
to the territory embraced in the houn
darits of Ward 5, Grant Parish, La..
iet it ordained by the Parish Board of
SchooIl iDirectors of the Parish of Grant,
La.. in legal session convened.
Section One. That school districts Nos
16 and 17. all situated in Ward 5. Grant
Parish. La., be and they are hereby con
solidated into one district to be knowr
as Christian Hole District No. 16, which
said district ermbrnces the territory with
in the Iounda~ry lines of Ward 5, Grant
Parish, Louisiana.
Section Two. Be it further ordained.
etc. That all funds derived from special
school tax elections which may hereafte:
he held and ordered in the said consol
id-ited districts Ntos. 16 and 17 shall be
al.portioned acording to the assessment of
saitd Ward Five, cc.nstitutinrg Chrlatial,
Hope District No. 16. Grant Parish. La.
Sect:on Three. Be it further ordained
etc. That all ordinances or parts of or
dinances contrary to or in conflict with
this ordinance are hereby repealed. and
that tills or-dinance shall go into effect
immeliately upon Its pasage.
t t;,nlimously adopted this 22d day of
July. 1916.
The following resolutton was offered b'
T. C. lincecum and second ed by E. A
W: llI. who moved its adoption.
Whereas,. there has been a reqcuest
made by the property tax payers of
Christian Htpe District No. 16. (onstitut
nlrg consolidated districts 16 and 17 and
embrahcing the territory comprising Wart
5. Grant P;arial, IA., eligible to vote satl
stcth .tleeton, asking that a special elec
tion he ordred in anti for said Christiar
litop-l istrict Nr.. 1, at whlvh shall be
submittcd the following proposition, tc
wit:
PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar ,n all property in Christian
Hope School District No. 16. Grant Par
ish, La.. suhbject to state taxation, annu
ally. for a period of five years for ftn
eral educational purposes.
And whereas, in the opinion of thls
Itoard sulhi special election is ncessar.
and advtlahle.
Bt, it resolved by the Parlsh Board of
Shool Directors of the Parish of Grant.
la.. is follows:
Section One. That a special election tw
and the same is hereby ordered to whr
held in Christian iHope District No. 16.
G:rant Parish. La.. on
TI'ESI)AY. SINPTFMBER 5. I11I.
At which shall be submitted the folltwing
proposition, to wit:
PROPOSITlON
To levy a sptiala tax of five mills or
tlie doll-ir on all property in Christian,
lfope District No. 16. G(rant Parish, l.a.
sbhject to state taxation, annually, for a
period of five years for generail educe
tional purposes.
Sctilon Two. That the Secretary of
llti board he and he is hereby lstructed
to have prepared for use at said special
eletion a sufficient numbetr of Irl.ota
on each of which shtll-be printed the
propoitlon, mentioned in section one of
thi resolution, and t the fIowlng foras.
P'Itt POSITION
Proposºition to levy a special YES
tax of five mills on the d,,llar
on all prop.a ty subject to state
taxation in ('hristian Hope )ie
trict No. 16. Grant Parish. Lau
Isiana. for a period of five
Years. beginnin g with the year NO
1c16 and ending with the ye.ar
1' 21, both years inclusive, fir
general educational purposes.
l'axable valnaton ...........
Signature of voter
NOTICE TO VOTERS
To vte- in flvor of the proposition sub
mitted on this hall,at place, a X) mark in
the squate after the word "Yes". and to
vote against It place a similar mark in
the. Saluare after the word "No".
And tIIheI Secretary be and he is hereby
instructetd t, have prepared for use at
said election all the necessary ballot
boxes, tally sheets, lists of voters, as
sessed valuation of property, and com
piled statement of voters in number and
amlount.
Section Three. That the polling place
for the said special election shall be at
Tully's Store, in Georgetown. La.. and W.
Hi. Westberry, P. M. Ussery and J. D.
MC'Conathy are appointed commissloners
and J. L. Homes clerk of election to serve
thereat.
The said election shall be conducted
under the laws of the state apulicable
thereto.
Section Four The President of thit
board is hereby Instructed to give notice
of the special election herein ordered, by
his proclamation to te published accord
ing to law; and in the said proclamation
he shall announce that at eleven o'clock
a. m. on September 6. 1916. this board
will meet at the court house at Colfax.
Grant Parish. Ia., and in open session
procee.d to open the ballot box, examine
and count the ballots In number and
amount. examine and canvass the returns.
and declare the result of the election.
The above resolution was adopted
unanimously, all members of the board
helreinhefore named voting in favor
thereof.
J. H. McNEELY.
President.
J. N. WARNER.
Secretary.
The following ordinance was introduced
and heing duly seconded, it was utani
mously adopted: to wit:
AN ORDINANCE
To group districts Nos. 12 and 26. all sit
uated in Grant Parish, La.. and to
distribute all funds derived from special
school tax elections in said grouped
districts according to the original ter
ritorial subdivisions heretofore existing
in accordance with the assessment oi
said district.
Be it ordained by the Parish Board of
School Directors of the Parish of Grant
La.. In legal session convened:
Section One. That school districts Nos
12 and 26. all situated in Grant Parish.
La.. be and they are hereby grouped into
one district to be known as School Dis
trict 12-26.
Section Two. Be it further ordained.
etc. That all funds derived from special
"chool tax elections which may hereaftet
1.e held and ordered in the said grouped
district shall be apportioned according to
the assessments of the original territoriai
subdivisions to such original subdivision
for use in the original subdivision.
Section Three. He It further ordained.
ete, That all ordinances or parts of or
Jlnances contrary to or in conflict witt
this ordinance are hereby repealed. and
tlh:t this ordinance shall go into effect
inne.diately upon its passage.
LUnanimously adopted.
The following resolution was offered hb
E. A. Wall and seconded by N. S. Rob
'rts, who moved its adoption.
Whereas, there has been a request
made by the property tax payers oe
school districts Nos. 12 and 26. constitut
ing grouped district 12-26, eligible to vote
At such election, asking that a special
election be ordered in and for said dis
trict, at which shall be submitted the fol
lowing proposition, to wit:
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property in School Dis
trict. No. 12-26. Grant Parish. IA., sub
ject to state taxation, annually, for a pe
riod of five years for general educational
)urproses.
And whereas. In the opinion of thl.
'ward such special election Is necessar)
lnd advisable.
Ile it resolved by the Parish Board o!
School Directors of the Parish of Grant
'a., as follows:
Sc'tion (inme. That a special election he
and the same Is hereby ordered to he
held in School District No. 12-26, Grant
Parish, La., on
TI'ESDAY. SEPTEMBER .I, 1916.
at which shall be submitted the following
,!rposition, to wit:
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property In School Dis
tract No. 12-26. Grant Parish. La.. sub
lect to state taxation, annually, for a pe
riol of five years for general educational
pturposes.
Section Two. That the Secretary of
this board Ie and he Is herehby instructed
to lhave prepiared for use at sall special
lection a suffic:ent number of ballots, or
e.ach of which shall he printed the propo
;itlrn n:mentioed in .eetion crne of this
resolution, and in the following form:
PROPOSITION
Praposition to levy a special YES
tax of f:ve mills on the dollar
on all property subje:t to state
taxation in School District No.
12-26. Grant Parish. IA.. for a
period of five years. bginnling NO
with the year 1:61 and ending
with the year !2(10. both years
inclusive,. for general educational
.urposes.
Taxable valuaton .............................
.lgoatare of voter ......... .................
NOTICE TO VOTERS
To vote In favor of the proposition sub
'nutted on this ballot place a (X) mark In
'he square after the word "Yes", and tl
vote against I! place a similar mark In
thle sqlmare after the word "No".
And the Secretary of this board be and
he Is hereby instructed to have prepared
for use at said special election all the
necessary ballot boxes, tally sheets, listl
"f voters. assessed valuation of property.
mnd compiled statement of voters In rhum
er and amount
Section Three. That the polling place
for the sacid special ele-tion shall be at
Creed precinct, and J. II. Falrcloth, Ern
'at Newton and - - Creed are appolnt
d commissioners and W. O. Hutchlnon
Ierk of election to serve thereat.
The said election shall be e onducted
under the laws of the state applicable
Sthereto.
Secti,,n Four. The President of
this board is herety instructed to
,lve notice of the special elec
timn h#rein ordered. by his procnlama
'iton ta he putblshed according to law:
and in the said proclamation he shall an
:Iounce that at eleven o'lock a. m.. on
deptember 6. 1'1~ this board will meet a
*hi. court hose at Colfax. Grant Partsh.
a., and in open ession proreed to open
the ballot box. examine and count the
'allots in nunmber and amount, examine
p mni canvats the returns tand declare the
resuit of the election.
The above resolution was adopted unan
fimously. all the members of the board
I herelntafore named voting in favor
I thereof.
J. H. MeNEiY.
President.
f J. N. WARNER.
B~ecrtary.
DRY PRONG MAINTENANCE TAX.
The following resolution was offered
y N. S. Roberts and seconded by E. A.
Vall who moved its adoption.
Whereas, there has been a request
nade by the property tax payers of Dry
Prong School District No. 11, Grant Par
sh. La.. eligible to vote at such election,
isking that a special election be ordered
n and for said Dry Prong School District
Vo. 11. at which shall be submitted the
following proposition, to wit:
PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of ten mills on
the dollar on all property in Dry .Prong
school District No. II. Grant Parish, La.,
subject to stale taxation, annually, for a
period of two years for the purpose of
supporting and maintaining the schools
located in the said Dry Prong School
District No. II.
And whereas, in the opinion of this
hoard such special election is necessary
and advisable.
Be it resolved by the Parish Board of
school Directors of the Parish of Great,
La.. as follows:
Section One. That a special election be
and the same is hereby ordered to be held
n Dry Prong School District No. 11,
Grant Parish. La., on "
TIESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5. 191.,
it which shall be submitted the following
proposition, to wit:
PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of ten mills on
the dollar on all property in Dry Prong e
School District No. 11, Grant Parish, La.
subject to state taxation, annually, for a
period of two years for the purpose of
supporting and maintaining the schools
located in the said Dry Pronj School Dis
trict No. 11.
Section Two. That the secretary of
"his board be and he Is hereby instructed
to have prepared for use at said special
election a sufficient number of ballots,
on each of which shall be printed the
proposition mentioned in section one of
this resolution, and in the follow form:
PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of ten yg
mills on the dollar on all prop
ýrty in Dry Prong School Dis
rict No. 11, Grant Parish. IA..
subject to state taxation, annu
illy for a period of two years.
'eginnlng with the year 1916
and ending with the year 1918. NO
,oth years inclusive, for the
>urpose of supporting and main
'aining the schools located in
the said Dry Prong School Dis
rict No. 11.
Taxable valuatios .. ..........................
-tigatureot Voter ...... .......................
NOTICE TO VOTERS
To vote in favor of the ptoposition sub
minltted on this ballot place a (X) mark ts
the square after the word "Yes", and to
vote against it place a similar mark in
the square after the word "No".
And the Secretary be and he is hereby
:nstructed to have prepared for nse at
taid special election all the necessary bal
lot boxes, tally sheets, lists of voters, as
teseed valuation of property. aad coE
piled statement of voters in number sand
amount.
Section Three. That the polling place
for the said special election shall be at
Dry Prong precinct, in the saMd Dry
Prong School District No. 11. and T. J.
Walker, I. B. Sermons and Mike Henagan
are appointed commissioners sad J. W.
smith clerk of election to serve thereat
The said election shall be condueted
under the laws of the state appiosale
thereto.
Section Four. The President of this
board is hereby instructed to give notIe
if the special election herein ordered, by
its proclamation to the published accord
ag to law; and in the said proclamatio
he shall ailnounce that at eleven o'clock
e. m., on September 6. 1916. this bard
will meet at the court house at Coltas.
Grant Parish. La., and in open session
proceed to open the ballot box. examine
and count the ballots In number and
amount, examine and canvass the retnrpe
and declare the result of the election.
The above resolution was adopted s
Imously. all the members of the har
hereinbefore samed voting ia favoW
thereof.
J. H. McWELYT,
President.
J. N. WARNER.
Secretary.
DRY PRONG BOND IIUEL
ORDINANCE No. 11.
N. 8. Roberts offered Ordinance No. 1I.
who moved its adoption, duly ac
by E. A. Wall, and It being placead beere
the board by the President. J. H. Me
Neely. E. A. Wall. T. C. Lacmecon. N. &
Roberts and M. E. Jackson voted for the
adoption of the ordinance, nays aoM ,
whereupon the chair anounaced the
adoptidh of the ordinance by the heard
by unanimous vote.
Whereas, it is necessary that a e41
school bsilding be built and equipped a
Dry Prong, Louisiana, In Dry Prya
School District No. 11. and
Whereas, the citiUsens and property tax
payers of the said Dry Pa ong chbol Ds
trict No. 11 have requested that the si '
school building be built and equlpped, sad
a site be purchased, if necessary. ad
Whereas, it Is necessary and deirahbl
for funds to be raised for said purposM
and.
Whereas. it Is the voluntary will of this
body to call the election hereinafter pre~
vided for, and
Whereas. Article No. 291 of the Cesl
tution of 1Sx8 and 1912. sad Act Ns
of the Legislatureof 1916, as ameas
Act 218 of 1912, declare the school
of the parish to be the goverongaSntMai
ity through which msaid Dry rn Sht
District No. 11 may incur debt ad
Issue negotiable bonds for such purposs%
when so authorised at an electin to he
held in the said Dry Prong Bchoo Die
trlct No. 11. and
Whereas, the assessed valuation of the
said Dry Prong School Distriet N 11
amounts to apprloximatly one
and sixty thousand ($t.0.a) ddian,
and the proposed Indebtedness dsa not
exceed the constitutional limit of tea p
I cent of the asaesed vahluatlon. ma
Whereas. the special tax necesary te
I be annually levied to extingulh the p
I posed Indeltedness will approirat
eight (8 mills, which will not exceed tLhe
constitutional limit per annum ea the dol
lar of the asasessed valuhation of the re
erty of said Dry Prong School Distrit
No. 11, now, therefore;
Section One. Be it ordained by the
I Board of School Directors of the ts
of Grant, Loui~ms a. in legal su ston M R
vened. That an election shall be and i
Shereby called to be held is the ad Dry
Prong District No. 11, In the ParI
I Grant. Loubtlna. on
TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 5, 1916
at which election the msjority eof the
Sproperty tax payers of the said Dry
SProng School District No. II, L meLumse
and amount, eligible to vote and vots
shall determine the
4po o nPROPOSITION
ositon to incur debt and tel
twahia of the msaid Dry Pmrong School D
trict No. It. in the Parish of rst, LA.,
to the amount of ten tbouomsad (IO.@MO
Sdollars. to run for a period of appre~
5 imateJy ten (Il) years. bearingl mr
Sat the rate of five per cent per aia
e payable annualy, the fend. thua dsrIvq
to be used for the
PURPOSE
Purpose of buildinag and equ( i
r school building at Dry Prong
ln the aid Dry PrSn Shee8l Dsrs
INo. Il.
Section Two Bae tt afurther sade e
