DAILY EVENING EDITION - Sp A A
The But Oregonlan bu the lirgeet boo. ftsWMWeWawi A if J, 5fj A V 1
Bd tnd gusnintwl paid circulation of any 1 ft llUirJ :A ft M V -? 0 .1111U11
paper lu (eegou. .nni of Itirtliiid tnd Ij ' mVl- S I DAILY I VvW. wk m 9 & 3 mVWW-.-f
fv tlie Isrgeit circulation Id I'cudletou of VAn isWT" T -k Mr.,J ii saa aar
oj newspsper. jlr MMMMMMMMllnT! MasW
CITY OFFICIAL PAPER S-- m
DitiLY EVENING EDITION
WEATHER
Tonight and Sunday fair. continued
warm
ramOOMTfl WEVTIIKIt lT
Maxmum temperature. 100; mini
mum. 52: rainfall 0, wind. n"rthwes.
light, weather, I dear
COUNTY OFFICIAL PAPER
VOL. 28
DAILY EAST OREGONIAN, PENDLETON, OREGON, SATURDAY, AUGUST 26.
NO. 8898
STRIKE APPEARS IMMINENT
BRITISH FORCE
TAKES GERMAN
THIEPVAL LINE
NEW IA
Nl N
FOR SERVICE
Four Hundred Yards or 1 Work of Transferring the
Teuton Defenses Capt- Books From Old Loca
ured At Champagne J tion Commenced Last
Fighting is Violent. Night.
RUSSIANS SEIZE KURTDAGUI FORMAL OPENING SOON
i:n. ii !( Mraplaim Attach nl Wamnf Sew loan Bsjsli la Expected Short!)
Ikalkaa Deadlock continue- whig bights Are Ootukvoted Up and Read.
Serbian- Making strong omitcr-
Mnst orilm Pariue rhs-iug Tasks 1
(BD KEKNM
LONDON, Aug 26. Mali reported I
thai lh. Hiillsh loft wing had oaptur-I
I'd four hundred yards of Ocriniili
Thlepval Wenches,
The ninth week 'if offensive found
th British stsadlly an circling Oar
man fotiltted positions and threaten-i
ing thi i :i pt u r ' n( Thiepval. Herman
oounters at Hoquat farm win' re-
pulsed Thr Germans trace defeated
eeat of c.ulllemont.
Thf Berlin war office oonirsdicted '
Had - -l iii tin hi and claimed that j
British attacks In the ThlepVal ami
Hlghwood sectors had been repulsed
.1 wcr,' the French liaiifopas attacks.
Tlir French communique said tne
German champagne attack had cnus
ed Um moat violent fighting in fever
al weeks. French grenade counter
attacks frustrated every sssautl
French aeroplanM dominated the en-
tiro front. Nine Herman aeroplane
were destroyed ami three captive bal
loons luirned.
Polrogrnd announced the Russians
hail ri sumed the advance in thi' Staiii
sluu region and captured the Village
of Guta.
In Caueasug the Russians captured
Kurtd.igui ridge and are hotl pur
suing the surv Ivors of the fourth
Turkish division.
The British admiralty announced
nnva! aeroplanes bad attacked Esppe
lina and Manual- it Natnur. Belgium
ami had shelled the aeroplane shells
"ne Hrllish machine tailed to return
Thi- Balkan deadlock continues.
The Serl.ians are strongly Countering.
parih. Aug 26. it Ik innounced
that French fire dispersed a strong
German reoonnolsance smith of Mau
Tepnn There was heavy artiller? fire
i n th, iomme front, The fJermani
ilesi lately attacked t'hampagnu and
thr Tmrtheagtern Verdun front
WHEAT HITS HIGH
MARK OF SEASON
Ina It'x'tn Ma.i lie I Mil OOM
RqeJpgaeeM PM in Place a- Bona a-
I'o-slluY.
from Pendleton'i heautlfui new $:iri.
000 Carnegie library. Wlthoui any
announcement whatsoever work was
commenced last night transferring the
hooks from the city hall to their new
home. Not a single hour has heen
lost i the patrons of the llhrarc. l.asi
night books were given out from the
old location and this morning the) are
helng Issued by Hahra N'ason, counts
lihraiian. at the county ImiMine. L
By noon today all hooks from DUm-
hers 1 to sun. Including the works of.;
fiction were house'l In the new home'
as well as Ihe children's hooks. orj
a time some of the adult hooks will psj
mixed in with the child books mi sc-
OOUnl of lack of llMtelng, The steel
shelves have not arrived and as a re-1
mi it It was necessary to move some oi l
I lie "Id shelve temporarily, The large
steel loan desk is sgpected soon.
It has not been decide,! when the
public opening and reception will he
given, The transfer Is heliiK made at
this date without awaiting the steel
work because of the coolness of the
new building. The lights were con
Retted Up so that il will he possible
lo have the lights on in the main
reading room tonight
The auditorium is completed but thai
IM seats have not been installed. The!
fine woman's club room for meeting!
purposes Is finished and will be In j
shape fin any convention that the
women may want to hold during1
Itoiind-l'p. The elevator from the I
county library w ork room downstairs I
to the up stairs Is In running order. I ihe
A feature in connection with the I ntf
CANNON CARNEGIE AND HIS BRIDE
91 J&
'fflmL
- .. . t
4 ";: " I I
STKIKi: AVERTED I NTH.
SUNDAY AT u:st
WASHINGTON. AVO. 26.
(3:04 P M.) THK STItIK
DANOBR IS AVEHTEP UN-
TIL, TOUtORROW. THE
TRAINMEN'S ItEPHESENTA-
TIVES HAVK AD,IontNEI
UNTIL TEN O'CLOCK TOMOR- )
9 "Tf r .
-
MAY REACH CRISIS TONIGHT
NEGOTIATIONS SEEM AT END
ROW (SUN DAT
MORNING
Brotherhoods and Railway Managers Declare They
are Ready-Trainmen Determined to Refuse Roads
Offer-Emergency Schedules are Prepared.
PRESIDENT WILSON AGAIN CONFERS WITH LEGISLATORS
German Paixr Nays i ,ml- iia Organ
iid Detachment for Special Iur
pose of Killing all Teutons in Cap
tured Ttmuims
BERLIN
tasslnatlr
Henches.
knives
The'
Vug. 26. a semi-official I
Cy has publish,' I charges I
rench organized a detach-'
he express purpose of as
all Germans In conquered
Il Is alleged the French use'
renlvers and hand grenades.
called the alleged act the
WASHINGTON", Aug. 26.
Pieeldeni Wilson uncM'tcdly
went to the capilol tK'twccn two
thirty and three o'cIwU. He
catered the preeident'i room off
llic sesiate chanilx-r and cinfciTcd
with S-nator Ni-vvlands. ehaltmart
of the Interstate commerce eom
nilttee. and .Senator Kern, dcino
iTatle flisir leader. The scs-lon
l.i-', il thirty eigflt minute-
Wilwm met the new spaoermen
pereoaally. He said: "I came u
llic eapitol on ivrtain matters of
legislation. I can't itagtafj It fur
ther. I hoe tliat is satlsfutory."
Kern and cvt lands returned u
the srnsli fliMir.
Kailroad I'seinllvi'- are pu.ded.
They have no Idea what caused
the vi-it.
WASHINGTON, Vu-
-Ihe , liinav in the railroad striki
'most brutal and wwardly violation "J iinmlnent. The strike (pie-ilon may be decided before niclit.
sjtustion ap-
t iiitt-rnatiulia! law known In the
present time." The publication said:
"These troops are called Netfoyeurs.
When the French take a trench they
throw hand grenades among the
wounded and shoot and stab all who
attempt flight. This terrible slau
ghter is systematically conducted.
Every man. whether wounded or not
is mercilessly stabbed or shot."
The presidents of the great American railways argued for hour- iirnnr-
iiur a poantcr-proposal. They will prts-ent Die propn-iition to Wilson when
ever it Is completed.
Wilson pOSpponejd the meeting of the fSrotlicriiood until after receiving the
railroads final declaration He conferred with Secretary l ane The Broth
erhoods representatives met fir one hour. Afterward many paid their hotel
hill- and pre)iared to leave Washington. They are determined to refuse the
railroads proposal. They believe nesrotiatlons an- near the end.
The trainmen- session adjourned shortly after noon. They carefully eon
sldend arbitration but nxik no action. Both camps made statements as fol
lows -We are ready." ,
SHAM BATTLE RAGES
OFF H. I
CANNON 5 MRS CARNEGIE
(First photograph of the COUpl
'each this countn since the
ling, i
Mrs. Mary Chamberlain, widow
untish Colonial Secretary,
Joseph i lin in lit-rla ill. wa
Woman's room in the haseitient Is gnjflsd ti
adjacent kiichen Telephone servios nsgle,
will he Installed Monday
The building Is one of the finest In
the state and many congratulations
are helng showered today upon the
county library hoard and Miss Sahra
N'aSon, county librarian.
the Ke William ffaitlej
lector ni Si. Margaret's
to i Cannon of Westminster, at West-
wed-j minster Allie on August 3.
The bride is a daughter of the late
William C. Endicoti. secretary of war
, in President Cleveland's cabinet. Kins
ihe George offered her aii earldom after
mar-1 Mr. Chamberlain's death in lull hn
air- she refused it. Mr. 1 'hamherlmn had
and, upon several occasions, refused tille
RETIRED PRIEST JUMPS
FROM HOTEL WINDOW
UNPRECEDENTED BUSINESS
RESPONSIBLE FOR BIGGEST
CAR SHORTAGE IN HISTORY
Wheal reached the highest mark of
"(he season today. A number of farm
era, fearful of a nation wide strike,
aie reported to he selling at 11. 20 this
afternoon. The local grain dealers
give nut a quotation of $1.18. There
have bea no big sales reported during
the week but should the strike ques
tion loom up mure iinmlnent it is ex
pected considerable wheat may he sold
before the night is over.
Several lots of club wheat are re
puted to have been sold yesterday at
11.18.
Reverend Ignatius Tomazln of Minne
sota Is'aiw (4i Death Prom Sixth
Moor of Hotel Sherman In Chicago.
(JHICAOO, Aug, 98, Reverend Ig
natius Tomazln. aged 70, a priest of
Albany, Minnesota, committed suicide
here today, lie Jumped from the
slxlh floor of the Sherman hotel. His
head struck n wagon pole and dashed
out his brains.
BJ
Mrs. Martha Mct'loskey, Toiuazln's
housekeeper, said the priest was des
pondent because he was retired from
active service on account of age.
IRVING FISHER SETS FORTH TEN
REASONS FOR WILSON VICTORY
1IY HIVING FISHER,
(Professor of Political Sconomy, Yale
University.)
In politics I am an Independent, one
of that body of voters, not large at
present but Increasing In numbers, I
believe, who distrust so culled "party
loyalty." that Is rubber-stamped vot
ing, and believe, instead, In voting for
one party or another according to
one's convictions as to the best Inter
ests of the country at the time. It Is
through the existence of an independ
ent vo(e that the public opinion can
exert IU chief Influence
I was present at three conventions
in Chicago and St. louls, attended
mine meetings of their platform com
mittees, was present at Mr. Hughes'
ceremony of acceptance and have read
carefully the important documents
'.ml speeches of the campaign tftsr
careful Consideration, I have joined
the Wilson Independent league. I
thoroughly believe that the best In
terests of the country requires Mr.
Wilson's re-election.
1 expect independent voters in gen
eral to vote for Wilson. 1 may add
(for (he superstitious ) that all the
presidential candidates for whom 1
have hitherto voted, heglnnlng in
1888. have heen elected.
My chief reasons for voting for
President Wilson are the following:
Raising a Dust.
1. The so-called issues of "Ameri
canism," preparedness, the Lusltanla
Incident, the Mexican situation, and
all others that have grown out of for-
(Continued on Page S.)
Unprecedented freight business II
now being experienced by the .-W
It. A N. L'o and is creating a sen.
i car shortage, according to H. C
Oliver, traveling freight and passen
ger agent who is here today.
As an evidence of the volume ot
business being done by the company,
Mr. Oliver slates that five new road
engines have been placed on the Pen-
dleton-Huntlngtefl division in the
past two weeks and a new switch en
gine has been added to the equipment
at Hlsth- This makes two day en
gines and two night engines in sen
Ice at llleth whereas there never at
any time Was more than three In ser
vice at Umatilla.
Mr, Oliver declares (hat the car
Shortage), Which is the greatest ever
known In the country. Is already be
ginning to he felt In eastern Oregon,
and he expects the situation to be
come worse before long. Theretore
he Is advising funnel's and grain buy
ers In prepare for storing their grain
until equipment oaa be .secured for
moving it.
The fact that all grain is beinl
shipped across the continent by rail
Instead of going by water la one fac
tor making for the shortage, he says,
while the revival of the lumber bus
iness Is another factor. There are
heavy shipments of horses, too. and
by the first of the month the ship
ment of sheep will begin. Already
there Is a shortage of stock cars.
"We receive no cars out west ex
cept what are brought here loaded, '
he said this morning, "No empties
are brought out here. It takes on the
average 90 days for a freight car to
go to Chicago and back, so you can
understand how long it takes to go
to the Atlantic seaboard and return,
In past years when grain Was ship
ped to the Pacific coast the distances
were so short that one car could bs
used 18 times to where It is used
once now Another thing that works
for a shortage is thai ;he most of the i
grain going east is shipped in bulk, j
thus requiring No. , boxcars. Inj
past years sacki d w heat has been
shipped In stock and coal cars to re-'
llSVe the shortage."
Mr. Oliver urges that shippers and
in sign see cooperate with the roads
In every possible way to relieve the
ttuatlon. "We flmpll have not the
cars to fill the present, extraordinary
i eniands. ' be said, 'and we want.'
the public to realise this and help us
is much as poSStel."
WASHINGTON, Ut. M, The
enemy fleet has theoretieatll de-
MfOyMl the defenders. Invading
tnsip- uro landing on long Is
land. Theoretically the sunken ship
entered the Maantln isms.
Large bodies of theoretically
wounded were rushed t, the naval
hospital-. Hospital wards of
both fleets were filh-d Thirty
enemy transports waited lichind
the aUacking squadron until the
defenders were defeated. (.uns
of all caliber on bolh fleet- were
fired rapidly. Destroyer and
submarine skirmishes constantly
iMtiirn-d. rimiI admirals man
euvered their fleets endeavoring
to bring the largest number of
heavy guns into action.
WASHINGTON, Aug The
great naval war game battle has
been raging ofl New fork harbor for
eight hours.
Admiral Helms of the defending
fleet engaged Admiral Mayo'.- enemy
fleet off Scotland lightship. He op
ened fire with twelve inch guns The
defending fleet "sank" the battle
ships Texas and Nevada, and the de
stroyers' Wadsworth and Cooper.
"Enemy" fleet "sank" the scout cruis
er Birmingham and the destroyers
Fanning.. Drayton and Palch
The railroad managers nromi-ed to keep sufficient trains running to pre
vent a milk and fixid famine. Kmnloyes admitted a few men might continue
working. Thej saasstad Moat railroads would be absolutely helpless.
The trainmen blamed the railroad heads for the situation. They declared
the big executives would be rofionslMc for all starvation and ruin as a result
of the strike, Railroad managers are all read). They have prepared emer
gency schedules and intend to embargo war munitions, dry goods and all
non-pori-hablo shipments. They will carry only food.
One railroad executive declared ail the Ilrotherhood members were not
intending to walk out. He said: "We are fighting the leader. I know my
men are loyal. They like me. but we must proiiare against anything."
One great railroad system wrote thousands of letters to be mailed to em
ployes an hour after the strike starts. They give the railroad's side and asic
co-iviH-ration to prevent a national calamity.
GERMAN LINES STILL
STRONG SAYS KLUCK
Allies Have Palled to Even Ucnd
Them in Eight Weeks of Vigorous
Offensive Declares Oermau lien
ors I.
(CARL ACKEHMAN. i
8TRAU8B8RQ, Germany, Aug :
Oeneral Alexander Von Kluk told
the United Press that the allies had
failed even to bend German lines dur
ing their eight weeks offensive.
THE DALLES MAYOR
TO TALK FOR DRYS
Tomorrow evening Mayor J. E. An
derson of The Dalles, known as the
father of Oregon's prohibition law,
will speak at a union meeting to be
held at the Methodist church under
the auspices of the W. C. T U. The
public is invited to attend.
Mayor Anderson, who is chairman
of the Committee of 100. will discuss
the operation of the prohibition law.
proposed remedies for such defects as
are apparent, and he will also devote
particular attention to the amend
ment providing for the legalizing of
breweries in the state. The amend-
Kluck commanded the Cerman , ment to stop the shipment of liquor
right wing during its advance to the (into the state will also be discussed.
Paris gates. He retired on account j Special music will be provided for
of wounds. Kluck met me in the the occasion. Miss Esther M. Fouth
sin. iking room at Wilkendorf Castle, j of Chicago, will be the soloist and a
He said: "In eight weeks of fighting I Union shoir will support her.
the allies have gained a few kilo-1
meters at terrible losses The Eng-
PORTLAND UP BUT
CHICAGO IS DOWN
SLIGHTLY TODAY
nothing. They have only exposed j I
themselves to our counter-attacks, i ,
w hich will eertSlnly come. The Bng-1 1(
S.'BS W If VAWncOOflT "I'n '"' are ''rrone. t ne are
iVi uincTftr datti c much greater than ours as the I
IN MIDST OF BATTLE Ush put new men into every at'
j Their losses must exceed ours by a I
PARIS.. Aug. American urn-1 hundred thousand." He expressed I
bUlancs officers said Mrs. William K. surprise at the great number of Brit-
Vanderhtlt wanted to see s battle and i Ish volunteers. He said Kitchener's I
went to Pont-a-Mousson Th, tier- efforts were responsible.
mans shelled the place during the
night Mi's. Vanderbllt fled down- Trouble is the most practical teach
stairs in her nightgown, with henei in the school of experience,
hair down and wearing loose slip-
pers. Shells wrecked houses nearby, i '
I-ater Mrs. Vanderbllt entered the
French trenches, standing the spot
where a bullet had killed a soldlerl
five minutes before. She was the
first woiiisn to enter Verdun sineei
the QermattS started the attack
NEWS SUMMARY
General
Railroad strike -ecm- Imminent.
Or t ish win German Thlepval One.
Knemy wins In sham battle.
LoonL
0Unal to bring -peia to ound
l"p from Frbieo.
i:traordinary friirhi hxi-Snos
canaes Wg car Minnsji,
WILL GIVE LEASE
TO HAPPY CANYON
JOURNAL WILL RUN SPECIAL
TRAIN FROM SAN FRANCISCO
FOR PENDLETON ROUND-UP
(Special tin
Rsnge of pri
CHICAGO, Aug.
the East Oregoniun
ccs toddy:
open. High. Low, Close.
Sept. $1.53 $l.r( ' II. 51 11.61
Dec. 11.55 11.15 H I1.55H $1.54
Portland.
PORTLAND, Ore., Aug. 26 i spe
cial) Club $1.28. hluestem $1.3:.
IdrcrpooL
Liverpool, Aug. It. Wheal
Spot No. 1 Manitoba. 15s ($2.13 l-l
Per bu.); No. 2, 14s KOid; No. S. not
quoted; No. 2 western winter, ill
Word was received totht) from the
N. P. headquarters at St Paul that:
the Oregon Feed Yard site on West I
Webb street could be had as the per
manent location of Happy Canton. J.
A Potter, who now has charge of the
feed yard, has a lease upon the prop
erty until March 1. 1917 but it is un-1
aerstood that a final report will bs
made at a meeting of the Happy Can
yon committee this afternoon upon th
proposition of buying his buildings and
lease. In the event that satisfactory
terms are reached, the committee will
Probably employ a supervising archi
tect at once to draw up plans for the
building of the "town."
For the first time since the Round
Up started in 1910 a special Pullman
train will be run tc Pendleton from
San Francisco for (he seventh ex
hibition. September II, 22 and II
This joyful news was received at
Hound-Up headquarters yesterday in a
letter from the Portland Journal,
which publication will run the train.
Heretofore the best representation
that could be expected from San
Francisco was a special car or two
but this year, Inasmuch ss the
Round-Up is the only attraction on
the coast of national lmponance. the
Ray city people are responding rap
idly to the special train suggestion.
The exact number of Csllfomla vis
tors who are to attend - unknown
but the first letter asked that 3o
seats be set aside ror the last two
days of the show The special will
be conducted under the auspices or
the Journal and C S Jackson, the
publisher, has enlisted the support el
the San Francisco Call.
The news of this special la one of
the greatest signal recognitions that
has ever been accorded the Pendleton
show. This brings the number of ape.
cial trains already scheduled up to
eight, the largest number that ever
visited the exhibition.
Performers by the dozens are send
ing In word that they will be here
and are asking for a place on Shar.
key's back Present Indication point
that 80, .000 people will pan (brough
!he gate this year
