AND THUS tU? hc7 Zcd .pins I1 abridgment by the United State of the freedom of rrliiou
opinion tod exertim. . . And that in addition to this general principle and etprewed
declaration, another and more ipecial provision ha been made by one of the amendments to the Constitution
which expre'j declares that 'Conrc thill make no laui reipectinj an estaWUhment of religion, or prohibiting
the free exercise thereof, or abridging the freedom of speech or of the press;' thereby gturding in the umc en
tence and under the ume word, the freedom of religion, of speech, and of the press: irwmuch. that hatrver
violated either, throw I down the unituary which coven the other and that libels, falsehoods, and defamation,
equally with heresy and false religion, are withheld from the cognizance of federal tribunals." Thum Jfewn
in Kettluticnx en Aliens an J Sedition Lavs.
This ft Number 279
IMAGE
B tar-m .... nr JL
mm
re
Free
Press
.Defen
se
League
Org
es Issue
Ringing Letter to Congressmen Sets Forth Vital Principles in the Struggle for Supremacy of
Our Free Institutions as Embodied in the Resolutions
Every Congressman Reminded of Statesman's Obligation
to Our Organic Law Asked to Heed the Crying Need
for Congressional Investigation of Political Romanism
Letter Avows League Stands Ready to Prove Charges
HE following letter signed by Gilbert 0.
Nations, the Vice-President of the Free
Press Defense Lea rue. ru presented to
1
N
every United States senator and every member
cf the house of congress on Wednesday, August
16th, 1911
To the Members of the Senate and Ilonse of Rep
resentatives of tho United Bute of America,
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemen :
We herewith eall your attention ,to the fart
that The Free Press Defense Leslie ia a patriotic
organization, existing under and by virtue of the
laws of the State of Kaunas, with its principal
office and head-quarters at Fort Scott, Kansas.
This letter ia addressed to yon under i not ruc
tion from the Board of Directors of said organi
ration, in order to bring to your attention in
formation, of supreme importance to every liberty
loving American.
Papal System Indicted
On July 13th, 1916, Mr. Lindbergh of Minne
sota, introduced in the lower house of congress
a resolution known as House Joint Resolution
No. 264. This resolution was introduced upon
representations made by The Free Press Defense
League, that:
I The pope of Rome is a foreign sovereign,
claiming allegiance in temporal as well aa spirit
ual matters throughout the world.
II The papal system of which the pope is the
head ia opposed to, and seeks to destroy our free
institutions, to-wit:
1 Our public schools,
2 The free press,
3 The right of free speech and public as
sembly, 4 The right of freedom of thought in mat
ters of conscience,
f The principle of separation of church and
state.
III The PP1 system in America which con
sists of the Roman Catholic cardinals, bishops,
priests, the Jesuits, Knights of Columbus. Feder
ation of Catholic Societies, the Ancient Order of
Hibernians, and other Roman Catholic societies
together with the Roman Catholic press, seeks to
substitute for our democratic system of govern
ment, the monarchial or papal system.
IV The Roman Catholic laity in the United
States of America, are taught, influenced, and
commanded, by those in authority, to yicl l im
plicit obedience to the teaching of the popes of
Rome and to blindly obey all their orders and
decrees, even though said orders and decrees con
flict with the constitution and the laws of the
United States of America.
Rome's Political Organization
V The Roman Catholic organization in
America is perniciously active in politics, and al
though having but few votes as compared with
the whole body of electors, it manages by threats,
intimidation, blackmail, and by coercion of the
press, to secure an undue proportion of the elect
ive and appointive offices throughout the country
and these offices when filled with Roman Cath
olics are used to further the plan of making Amer
ica dominantly Roman Catholic.
VI In carrying out the conspiracy to brin-r.
the United States of America under the complete
domination of the pope of R.me. the R.man
Catholic hierarchy, aided by the R.man Catholic
politicians and the Roman Catholic press, has in
spired the Roman Catholic laity to resort to
threats, to intimidation, to the boycott, to as
sault and to riot and murder.
VII The Roman Catholic hierarchy is now
and has been for more than a year last past,
actively engaged within the territory of t'ie
United States of America in fomenting and in
citing revolution in the Republic of Mexico and
attempting to bring about a state of war between
the Republic of llcxico and the United States of
America."
These are grave charges snd we realize to the
fullest extent their gravity. The resolution calls
for an investigation of these charges. We repre
sented to Mr. Lindbergh and now state to you
that we stand ready to prove by overwhelming
and unimpeachable testimony the truth of each
and every one of eaid charges.
Thia is a matter which vitally interests every
man and every woman in America and it ia the
duty of every man and every woman who claims
loyalty to the nation to support and advance the
measure which we advocate.
With the Roman Catholic religion we have no
quarrel. 'We believe in the absolute unqualified
right of every man and every woman to worship
. God according to the dictate 6f his or her own
conscience; bet with a poUtko-ecdeaiasticai or
ganization such a the papacy has foisted tpon
America, wc canuot afford to compromise.
Traitors to Common Good
To the charge made by the cmis-arles of the
Sspal system, that we are creating religious preju
ice, we inake short answer: "We grant you the
tame right we demand for ourselves, to worship
as conscience dictates; but when you attempt to
substitute the cruel and despotic papal system of
government for our free democratic system, we
brsnd you ss traitors to the common good."
The papal system aims at securing control of
our government and yel the conduct used in the
campaign to do so is coarse, undignified and crim
inal to the highest extreme. Public speakers are
intimidated, threatened, assaulted, beaten and
murdered. Those who rent their buildings for
the purpose of holding political meetings are
treated in much the same manner as the speaker.
Men who desire political office are threatened,
blackmailed and coerced. The press, through fear
of the boycott, is driven to uphold in larre meas
ure the unlawful acts of the papal conspirators. Our
public scnools are assailed as ungodly and vicious.
The papal speakers, teachers, priests and Press
conspire to bring reproach upon our public scnools
and so far as possible to destroy their influence
for good. In fact every species of villainy which
the lowest wretches on earth can practice or in
vent ia resorted to, in the effort to make America
dominantly Roman Catholic.
The things our people have already suffered
from papal domination in political affairs jre in
deed severe out they
are like chaff as com
pared with what we
will suffer if the
scheme to make
America dominantly
Roman Catholic fin
ally succeeds. We
have but to look at
results in countries!
where papal rule has!
been dominant to'
understand how in-j
stead of eivilirine
nations, thev have
been kept in igno
rance and brutal
ized. What greater
curse can befall any
country than that of
becoming subject to'
such an authority,
and how can you
penfer a greater
benefit tinon your
country than by be-'
ine the means of
helping to deliver it
from such a malic-'
nant and venomous
enemy? j
Our forefathers
established a govern
ment for free poo-'
nle. And had it not
been for them, there
would have been no
such thing as free-1
dom left in all the
world. It is for us
to see that this
trrand heritage
handed down to us
shall not be dimin
ished, abridged or
dost roved.
A frre press, the
right of free epeech
"4 public astern-'
Mage, and our free
public schools, are
the sentinel that
eland guard over our
liberties. Tkeyehdll
rot be destroyed.
We do not wan
napal liberty of the
press. We want
American liberty of
the press. I
We do not want
papal rights of free
speech. We want
American right of
free speech.
We do not want
papal public schools.
We want the Amer
ican free public
school.
The things wt
Tc Letter and the Crisis
THE LETTER;
Reaches every congTesniSD,
Sets forth the Resolutions,
Berks prompt action.
Analyze impending peril,
Declares investigation certain.
Proclaims papal system, menace.
Defines freo institution.
Asks American not papal freedom.
Demands American not papal school,
Outlines duties of statesmen,
Presses powerful argument,
Insists on congressional hearing,
Takes cognizance of hazard.
Closes with stirring appeal.
The League Has Raised the Mighty Issuoand Now Proposes
With Its Statesmen and Jurists to Sustain the Indict
mentLet the Patriotic Millions Strike Demand
Prompt Action and Victory Is Ours Forward!
charges, when evry well informed man in Amer
ica knows now and has known for years that they
are true.
Conditions Compel Raxardoui Bisks
- ' ------------rt---tj-wfj-jnjtnjir
charge against the papal system are true and no
loyal American can afford to blind his eyes to the
dangers which exist. None of you gentlemen
who represent this great nation aa law-makers can
afford to turn a deaf ear to our appeal for an in
vestigation. . The cause of liberty is at stake and just so
sure as we lie dormant and from fear and cow
ardice allow the papal agents to continue their
insidious campaign of making America dominant
ly Roman Catholic just so sure will we kecome
papal slaves.
All questions of political expediency must be
put aside and this investigation mutd. prooeed.
The people of America have a right to know
who are in real allegiance to this government
. The dividing line hctwe-n the friends and the
enemiea of the United States of America should
be made clear and distinct.
It is astonishing that the Free Press Defense
League is under the necessity of making these
i We realuo that the reason papal encroach
! rnent in the United States has not long ago boon
met and crushed is because it is dangerous for
i those who take the initiative. No one is secure
in his person or Property who mikes such charges
as we have made against such a powerful and
unscrupulous enemy. But there are conditions
and situations in life which compel men, even at
the risk of life itself, to stand forth and boldly
denounce wrong.
Such a condition has come to ts. The lite of
onr free intitutions is at stake and we do not
I.OMtato to take our staud on the side that we
know to be right. We know full well the dangers
which we must encounter, yet we accept the re
sponsibility without fear. The threat, the boy
cott, assault, even murder itself shall have no
terror for us.
If at the cost of onr lives America can he
made free from papal rule, we will not hesitat?
to make the sacritlee.
A few lives now, may save million cf lives
at a later time.
Yon need not fear to take the sido of the
people in this contest. The papal agents make
extravagant claims of their power in politics but
we say to you that a careful estimate of their
claims compared with the facta will show that
their influence is not to be dreaded if boldly met
and dolied.
It is true in this
country that the pa
pists nave secured a
3333
PATRIOTS OF AMERICA
THE HOUR HAS STRUCK!
"Speak Onto tbe cMl.lrrn of larm.d I hit tho ra fnratrrt "Fntii 14-H
In the history of nations and 'civilizations there come moments -.hen, standing at the part
ing of the ways, a choice must be made a choice that means life or death; freedom and growth,
or reaction and enslavement; a glorious future under the sheltering arms of liberty, or a long
drawn out agony in a life and death struggle with a dogmatic autocracy whose insolent assump
tion of infallibility leaves no room for intellectual hospitality, the larger freedom or for full
orbed development.
Today our nation is facing such a crisis. V, rP at fi parting of the rays, and evcrv
citizen whether ho will or not. miM show his colors-must take a stand either for the lofty
princit.les voired in flic DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE and our FEDERAL CON
STITUTION, or for the reactionary despotic ar.Ucracy of monarchial rule, whether represented
by czar, king, kaiser or pope.
For years yon who represert the patriotic millions of America; men and women of vision, of
consecration and lofty spiritual idealism, have bravely fought for the vital principles underlying
our free goornment, and against the aggressions of the well organized Roman Catholic political
machine wielding the boycott and employing censorship to hileuce the upholders of democracy.
Now the Free Press Defense League proposes to have this great and overshadowing issue
squarely met by rational and democratic methods of procedure. Relieving in liberal democracy
and opposing the method a well as the forms of monarchial despot im. instead of
resorting to force to rioting, moboeraiy and murder, as have the Knights of Columbus and othr
representatives of the Roman Catholic hierarchy during recent months and years, and in-tcad of
seeking by boycott, censorship and appoaU to courts to crush free discussion as has the American
Federat ion of Catholic Societies during the past six years, the Free Press Defense League has
gone to congress and petitioned the peopW representatives to provide for a broad, fair, im
partial, but sweeping investigation of thi indictment f the papacy in its relation to onr free in
stitutions which tho 1vn.me has embodied in House Joint Resolution 561, introduced by Con
gressman Charles A. Lindbergh, on July 11th.
In bringing these charges which political Romanism has so strenuously denied before tho bar
of the House, the league has not only opened the way to settle the quest ien by orderly procedures
under the domoeratio methods, but it has undoubtedly provided the most effective measures for
stemming the rising ti 'o of religious animosity and prejudice whielKis one of the inevitable sinister
results of a church meddling with politics and opposing the FUNDAMENTAL LAW of the land.
If, as we assort, Rome is in American politio that fact must bo c-tablishcd and he must be
driven out of politics. If Rome i not doing the things charged, the League has provided her
with a splendid opportunity to vindicate herself.
This investigation will mark an epoch in the history of lilioral democracy, for it will give
an opportunity to marshal before the world the fundamentals of the two systems of government
wherein will be revealed the bridgoless oham that exists between liberal democracy and the arro
gant and autocratic assumptions made by the p.-pes and promoted by the Roman Catholic politi d
machine in the new world.
This bringing of the issue be'ore eonjTe-a A the first great step taken by the League to com
pel a full investigation. Nor is this all. our great organization is forming a cabinet of statesmen
and jurists to substantiate before congress cveiy claim made in its indictment.
The Lcasue having secured the introductw.i of the resolutions, and now preparing to de
fend its allegations can go no further until TOU DO YOUR PART.
Patriotic mm and romen of America, tU great raue-e ts nor in your hand. Between now
and November yon have it in your power to carry forward a campaign that will compel the men
who are asking you to send them to congress to unequivocally declare whether or not they will sup
port this demand for a full, free and impartial congressional investisration.
This is vour work. Here" lies tour present patriotic dutv YOUR INESCAPABLE DUTY.
Yon can not ignore thia call of IMPERILED DEMOCRACY for your help, and remain a true
patriot, for never has our nation faced so deadly a crisis or been called upon to grapple with a
foe so powerful, widely ramified, experienced and subtle as the great hierarchy that for hundreds
of years has perniciously meddled with world politics in the interest of recognition and para
mount power for the papacy. 4
Now as never before, tht way is open for tbt isaue to be clearly presented. Now if yon do
ytrar duty the incoming congress will be pledged to provide for this investigation which can not
fail to throw into high light the two systems of government The hour has struck, now is your
great opportunity to nobly serve the cause of frveJora, progress and advancing civilization.
give warning that unless heed is paid t the de
mand for an investigation of the flemish con
spiracy against American liberty, tho wrath ef
the people long pent up, is likely to break forth
iu uncontrollable fury.
With the sincere hope, that toa iU r.i t fa I
America in this her time cf greatest need,"
we are,
Respectfully,
THE FREE PRESS DEFENSE LEAGUE,
?y O. O. NATIONS, Vice-PrfiJfnl.
The charges frankly set forth in thin letter,
though bold and uncompromising hav the su
preme mrit of being frus.
They embody not only the teachings f the
papacy the so-called "infallible snd "irreform
abla" utterances of the toft three popes, but also
th present diy practice of tht subjects of the
papal eovcrcignfy, in Amtrica.
Tht Broadmlnded Viewpoint
We are sinrero. It Rome sinoere? If we can
not substantiate our charges we have done polit
icsl Romanism tho greatest possible service whieh
friend or foe could render the hierarchy in Amer
ica, for we hav given her the opportunity to vin
dicate herself from the charges which millions of
patriotic Americans believe to 1 true. Clearly
if she is sincere she will wholeheartedly join us in
demanding a full, impartial and weeping in
vestigation. For years the Roman Catholic politicians hsvs
recklessly denied our charges while be'ving their
words in their actions. They Lave detlare-i that
they did not owe allegiance to the pope and the
papal system in matters political, and then they
ha
ave straichtwav soueht legislation to abiidii
ami. m r "
large proportion of! fr,H" .m ,?1 re ','.., discussion as provided by the
the appointive oiT,is". n",M"V. " r" " t0" rMC'1"
when they have but
a small proportion
of tho legal votes.
This has been ac
complished, however
bv bluff and boycott,
!v intimidation and
by coercion.
We have taken the
only lawful means
that we know to
combat this wily
and dangerous en
emy of the public
welfare and millions
of patriotic Ameri
cans stand ready to
uphold you in this
righteous cause.
Therefore, we appeal
to yon as loyal, true,
American citizens,
and as faithful rep
rcrntntivfB of this
nation in congress
to p."!c House Joint
Resolution No. 5fi
snd give us the op
portunity we crave,
of thoiritiy the hand
r.f Home in all it
hi-lcnui guilt, Mn,
I m7 the foundation
of our government.
- ...
lou nave it in
vonr power to solve
this great question
U- lawful and peace
ful means but there
mint be no tempor-
1 lrinj. Tho issue
'must be bravely and
I i r 1
No one can hope
to forward his polit
ical fortunes b
doduing or side
'seppin, the issue,
I for we are in deep
j earnest and our fight
hss just begun.
There will be no ces
sation, no abatement
of onr efforts, ontil
papal interference
and influence in
American political
life ia utterly and
forever destroyed.
The spirit of the
people is aroused
and will no longer
endure the constant
and growing papal
encroachment upon
onr liberties. We
injs of the pope atd the papal f'ieory of toer-
men I.
Our democratic system of government protects
a freo promt by provision for jury trials. The
papal system would suppress obnoxious Hel
icals by autocratic or bureaucratic auH'inly, an -i
so we see tho subjects of the papn! vivcreigntv
seeking to secure legislation contrary to the con
stitutional guarantee of a free press and whieh
would rrplace, Ike democratic provision of jury
trials with autocratic rul.
The papal system opposes freedom of spce li
and assembly, and though our constitution gnnr
antces these bulwarks of democracy what more
natural than the spectacle which has been pre
sented by the subjects of the pope, the Knights
of Columbus and other '"props of the Roman
Catholic hierarchy" during the present year anl
for many years past iudulL'inir in riotinr, criminal
I lawlessness, monocracy and murderous assault in
oraer la destroy the connlxlufional fjuaranteen riff'
to democracy tthat are inimical f t the papal .v
tem. Our public non-sectarian education has prove!
the greatest of all the bulwarks aul safeguard
of li!crsl democracy. It has been at once the
mighty molting pot of democracy, the destroyer
of religious and race prejudice and the mort ef
fective promoter of intellectual and spiritual hos
pitality, yet this vital shield and defense of e
mocraey is denounced by the papal "overeign an I
in this country Roman Catholics have further
proved their al!cgian e to the pope by boldly d-.
nouncin? our free schools as (iodless, and as
"gates of hell."
Our const it'ition provides for the nhsnlu'e
divorce of church snd state, riving coital oppor
tunities and Tyhts ta all church e and granting
special favors ti none. Thrt papal sy.'.em .r
niand. vpho'ds and insists upon the unim vf
church and slate in all lands where the ?!'
Catholics are sufficiently strong to compel w '
union, while in Protestant lands the subjects cf
the pope are constantly attacking the princip'-'
of separation of church and flat, as for example,
in this country where in city, state and nation
they are fiithting persistently nnd with increase
determination to secure appropriations i f public
fuuds for their sectarian institutions.
These are but typical illustrations showing
how the subjects of the papal sovereign in Amer
ica, are systematically warring against th-
ORGANIC 'LAW of our land in furtherance of
the teachings of the pope, while denying that thev
owe and show first allegiance to the sorerein on
the Tiber.
The struggle we are facing U Che (druglo
France faced a few years sgo when she bravely
freed herself from papal political domination.
It is the conflict that has been steadily waged in
all liberal democratic l.nds between tho who
hold that the people are the supreme and rightful
source of governmental authority, and tho? who
stand for the theory of the divine ri-hts of pope
and princes. It is the old conflict between
autocracy and popular sovereignty th struggle
between, democracy and despotum.
