The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDA, AUGUST 26, 1916
NUMBER 47
-s.
.
.
Ih
"
A PLATFORM THAT ANT GOOD
DEMOCRAT CAN STAND ON
It Was Made at Jefferson City Tuesday
By Men Who Are Loyal
to Their Country
trol In Washington. This great system
has withstood tho strain of a world
war, and has made possible that pros
perity which the country now enjoys.
aJrstem of rural credits for our state
tha$ will result In lessening the inter
est burden to farmers, and which can This Will Show That Democrats Know!
A SURPLUS OF $5,200,000
SAVE MOVING EXPENSES
be administered In co-operation with
Labor Legislation the national rural credits system now
"Wo call special attention to legls- being established.
e heartily recommend the adop
tion of the proposed constitutional
latlon for the relief of the wrongs
suffered by labor. For over thirty
years labor, without avail, knocked at
the door of Ilepubllcan congresses,
praying for relief against unjust laws
and conditions. Their requests were
How to Handle the Post
Offices ii
Wall street has kept up a continuous j
attack on the postoffice department i
and Us head since the beginning of
this administration. Many of these at-'
Republicans Driven lnt Low
Taxed Missouri From High
Tax States Should Think
amendment No. 2, known as the Mis
souri Btate land bank amendment.
FWe commend the work of the Denv
ocJatlc general assemblies of the state i sometimes concluded that It was not
abolished protection of the rights and liberties contact with all the people and the'
of its citizens, and call attention to tservlce that It renders Is of vital lm-
Desire to do Good to the
Greatest Number
Ing to Present Program
In striking contrast to the qulb-!
bllng, fighting, backbiting, knife stick
ing, brawling, contentious, disrupting
and smash-lf-you-can performance of
the Republican state conventional Jef
ferson City Tuesday was that of the
Democratic convention made up of the
big Democrats of tho state, who with
out a word of dlssentlon or an Inhar
monious note met and selected a state
chairman and adopted a platform
which they are not ashamed of and
are not required to hide from the sun
light of public opinion as do the mem
bers of the G. O. P., whose platform
follows along the line and on the prin
ciple of Candidate Hughes campaign
for president a diatribe of mere bal
derdashwords with not a single live
issue to stand upon.
There Is as much difference In the
two platforms as there is between day
and night the Democratic platform is
clear, lucid and to the point, while the
stuff dished out by the remnants of
the G. O. P. Is dense as darkness and
as clear as unsterlllzed mud. About
the only good thing that the G. O. P.
convention accomplfshed was to send
our own and only John Albus back
home with a badly battered memory.
The whole convention on account of
the unanlnllty of feeling and the en
thusiasm of the members, required
just as much time as was needed to
transact the business In hand, while
on the part of the Republicans It was
nTssary to devote a whole day to
fighting and the next half day to
patching up the fight. v
Senator Reed There
Judge James Cowgill of Kansas City
was selected as state chairman with
out a dissenting vote. Then Senator
James A. Reed made one of those
speeches for which he has a national
reputation and told of what had been
accomplished, In fact, by the Demo
cratic party, after which Col. Gardner,
Democratic nominee and the next gov
ernor of Missouri, made a character
istic speech which was received with
an enthusiasm which bespoke the high
esteem In which he is held by all Mls
sourlans. Then the state platform
which had been drawn by the ablest
man in Mlismirl. was uresetited and
"""w read to the convention, who received It
Willi CUlUUBiaSUb UfcflJlttwra-. uuu .
their belief by adopting It without one
single dissenting voice. It is a plat
form on which any Democrat can and
will stand and Is in further striking
contrast to the wobbleshanks which
the Republicans finally adopted after
a day and night of fighting and an
added half day of scrapping.
For the Information of those who
would like to know what the Demo
cratic platform contains. It might be
stated that the following Is a com
plete copy of the document and the
only ono printed In any paper In Its
entirety west of St. Louis. The Re
publicans are so ashamed of their so-
and affirm the platform of our na
tional convention.
Organized Lobby Exposed
"We challenge attention to the great
record of the Democratic congress. It
exposed the organized lobby, which
had for years Infested the nation's
capital. That lobby was headed by
the hired agents of an organization,
misnamed "The National Manufactur
ers' Association." It had for years
been Instrumental In preventing all
legislation calculated to ameliorate the
conditions of labor. It habitually sent
Its hired employees Into various con
gressional districts to defeat congress
men who had sought to pass remedial
legislation. It regularly spent vast
sums of money hi endeavoring to pro
mote the political interests of its serv
ants in congress. It spied upon com
mittees and corrupted subordinate
governmental employees. The Demo
cratic party drove It from the capital
and compelled Its dissolution.
"The Democratic party, always
mindful of the welfare of the farmer,
and recognizing that he has been the
victim of unjust interest exactions, by
farm loan companies, has, by enlarg
ing the powers of national banks, cre
ated an immediate competitive mar
ket for farm mortgages and cattle
paper.
Review of Rural Aids
"It Is now organlziuV a great sstem
of land banks which will enable farm
ers to procure long-time loans at from
4 to 4" per cent Interest, without the
payment of commission charges, and
which makes the borrower a partici
pant in the profits of the land bank,
through which he, negotiates his
loans; this national system will coop
erate with the state rural credit sys
tem in the same manner as state
banks do with national banks.
"It places agricultural Implements
and many other articles especially
used by farmers upon the free list.
"It increases the appropriation for
the agricultural departments by 50 per
cent, and has extended Jhe powers ot
that great department so as to work
incalculable advantages to the agricul
tural class.
"It appropriated $4,500,000 to
promptly exterminate the foot and
mouth disease.
"It created a division of markets
and rural organizations to study and
disseminate Information of special
value to the farmers.
"It created a live stock market and
a live stock news service.
"It passed the grain standard act,
which Insures uniformity in grain
grades.
Started Road System
"It passed the warehouse bill,
which facilitates the storage ot grain
by the farmers, and the procurement
of money on warehouse receipts.
"It passed the agricultural extension
act, which will place two expert farm
demonstrators in each county of the
United States and backed It by an ap-
Our Republican friends con
tend that they are gaining in Mist-
InrVn have hppn ho worded that men snurl hv rnnnnn of the laree add)-
friendly to the administration have tlon annually to our population
uepuDiican Illinois ana uepuDii- w
not only disregarded, but often con- ? lne enactment of laws for the bet- managed as well as It might be. It Is can Iowa, who are attracted by
teniDtuouslv rejected. ter government of the state and the,' the department that is always In close' our land bargains.
And what drove them out of
Illinois and Iowa?
High taxes.
What was the real, controlling
influence that induced them to
locate In Missouri?
Low taxes.
What Is the tax rate in Repub-
can Illinois?
Forty-nine cents on the $100
valuation.
What is the tax rate In Re-
publican Iowa?
Forty-eight cents on the J100
valuation.
What Is the tax rate In Demo
cratlc Missouri?
Only EIGHTEEN CENTS on
the $100 much less than half of
either of the states referred to.
It Is true, perhaps, from force
of habit, some ot these newcom-
ers may be voting the Republl-
can ticket
But surely only from force of
habit, not from Intelligent inves-
tigatlon and reasoning. Extrava-
gance In Republican states in the
management of governmental af-
fairs, Is responsible for the aky-
high tax rates.
Newcomers have only to stop
and think what would happen
should the Republicans be pnt
cases.
"By the passage of the seaman's law Ldge Alen wi Take Up the poee
it abolished Involuntary servitude inj Muddle at That Tnl!( Accord.
me mercnam marine.
"It created a board of railway me
diation and arbitration, which has set-
Tho ntlocHnn nf U'hn nnnim.o ,1...
tied every railroad dispute up to the;poUce board o( St j08eph ,s et R
preaem lime. mootfil nnpI mv tm ,h Polnio.
"It enacted an eight-hour law fori
the protection of women and child j
may
board or It may be the Major board
of one thine thprn is a rcrtnlntv nml
workers of the District of Columbia. that , that the Majnr boRrd
"It extended the elght-hour law to,ented bj. Dr Crande ig stI11 ,n
nn..n nHIHlnltnAn I M , I. Innl.n nr.nl 1
tuci -iiiu era in nit; Aiaaiva tuat
"The Democratic party
government by Injunction.
"It exempted labor and farm or- lue fact no state nas enacted more j portance to all. Under the adininls-
ganizatlorte from the terms of the constructive legislation of direct bene-j tration of Postmaster General Burle-
Sherman anti-trust act and gave them fjt to the people than has been enacted son the service has been greatly ex
statutory recognition. oy Missouri Democratic legislatures." tended, especially in the rural dls-
. . . ... rpj "It guaranteed trial by Jury and the , ' tricts, so that nearly every farmer has
And They ForOt rartlSianShip in 1 heir right to bail and appeal in contempt .TO HEAR CASE THURSDAY mall delivered dally. The main com-
' nnaau ' nlafnt nt all atruitt la that the rati.
roads are not paid enough for carry
ing the mail, but all of them are ex
ceedingly anxious to get the job.
Under Republican rule, there was al
ways a deficit to be made up by ap
propriations from the public funds, but
under Democratic administration this
year, there Is a surplus of $5,200,000
i and the postmaster general has sent'
his check for that amount to the treas
ury. Secretary McAdoo says this Is
the third time since 1836 that surplus (
postal revenues have been deposited
In the treasury and that all three
years have been under the present ad
ministration. What kind of a postoffice service
does Wall street want? Does it want
it so managed that there shall be an
annual deficit of several millions each
jear? Those who have attended ses
sions of the house will remember that
under Republican rule there was every
year a protracted discussion over post
office deficits. When Democrats crit
icised It. the Republicans always re
plied that it was not expected that the
postoffice should be self-sustaining,
that It was a' public convenience, that
it had educational purposes and was
maintained for the spreading of news,
so that people could intelligently par
ticipate in the government. Under the
present administration it has done all
that, and without raising postage rates
has turned back to the people more
than $5,000,000.
fields and those engaged In the con
struction of the Alaska railroad.
"It provided for industrial educa
tion. Investigated Mines
session up to present writing.
Quo warranto proceedings were in
stituted by Attorney General Barker
Monday, which seek to oust Crandell.
McDonald and Chief Clouser. When
the matter came up before Judge
"It abolished the Taylor stop-watch i All-n Wednesday morning service had
speeding-up methods the Republicans ( not "been secured on Dr. Crandell or
had established In the United States Commissioner McDonald and neither
navy yards and gun factories. i were In court, nor were they repre-
"It provided for the construction of sented by attorney. Judge Allen there
battleships In government navy yards. ! fore set the case for hearing on next
"It Investigated and exposed the In-1 Monday and gave the attorney gen
tolerable labor conditions of West Vlr- eral until Thursday to file an answer
ginian and Michigan mines. and for the case to be heard.
"It enacted the compensation law', in the meantime the city is moving
for postoffice employees Injured in the 'along Just as though-tiothing had hap
service. pened and so far no one has toppled
"It has Just passed the working-: off Into the fathomless abyss, caused
men's compensation law, applicable to by this supposed tilt ot the earth,
all government employees. ' -
"It established a children's bureau i -....r-m-'i
to study the condition of child life andj COMMERCIAL LIGHTING
me origin ana prevennon oi ennu uis-'.
t-Mayor Marshall Has an Idea That the
City Mlaht Do a 1 Ittlr
tory products of child labor In "intr 7 "' - - Business
state commerle.
"It abolished many other abuses Mayor Marshall and some of the al-
against which labor justly complained, dermen have a hazy idea that It would CaPl- Joe Hayward Will Attend the
"Missouri has always occupied a be a good plan for the city to get Into National Session of the Order
proud and foremost position in the the commercial lighting game. It Is ' Headmasters
senate of the United States. In the also possible by the time that theyi Capt. Joseph Hayward will go to
early days of the republic Benton was get through with figures and with the New York next week, where he will
admittedly the peer of Clay, Calhoun various persons who have "schemes" attend the annual session of the Na-
and Webster, and late came Blair, and also with the various "promoters"
Schurz, Vest and Cockrell. Our pres- who would take care of their own
pockets while the taxpayers of St
Joseph footed the bills, that thev
eases.
"It prohibited the shipment of fac-
THE SOLE SURVIVOR
In charge in Missouri.
The Republican newcomers
would soon be on the lookout for
a location in another Democratic
state!
The wise thing for these new-
comers, who thoughtlessly voted
the Republican ticket in their old
home state until Republican high
taxes became so burdensome that
for self protection they were
compelled to move to a Demo-
cratlc state to get relief, to do is
to help keep Missouri Democratic
and save moving expenses.
AND STILL FOUGHT
ent senators, William J. Stone and
James A. Reed, measure fully to the
high stature of their predecessors.
Praise for Senators
"As chairman of the foreign rela
tions committee. Senator Stone has
The G. O. P. Congressional Committee
Fight Starts a Fight in the State
Committee
Of course that famous session of the
Republican congressional committee
which convened at the still more fa
mous Lincoln club here a week ago
tional Association of Roadmasters and
Maintenance of Way convention. Capt.
Hayward has been with the Burlington
system stationed at St Joseph for
might have a different opinion of the time the memory of which runs not iast Tuesday and remained in fighting
matter in question. to the contrary of men. session until last Monday night did
It is generally conceded and this in Capt. Hayward Is the sole surviving nothing else but fight and quit light
backed up by the opinion of men who! member of the organization which he ing and Ihen fought again at the
been the adviser and the support of raake electric lighting a business, that helped to organize In Chicago in 1881 meeting of the G. O. P. state commit
the president, and second only to him i u wl11 cost anywhere from $300,000 to I and of which he has been a loyal and tee meeting, which convened at Jer
as a force for the preservation of the ' J300.000 to put a city plant Into op- devoted member since the day of the ferson City Tuesday and with the Bu
dignity and peace ot the nation. eration that can care for the city's ' organization. Capt. Hayward is still chanan county fight as a curtain raiser
."in Ills one term of service. Senator nepds and then do but a small Item of ne of the most vigorous men in fat.
James A. Retjd has placed himself In PUDiic service. It is extremely doubt- Josepn ana wnat ne nas not none ior
the front rank of the senate. In the tul ' the people of St. Joseph are now , the Burlington railroad In his career
framing of the federal banking bill his ready to fall over each other In a mad "t worth mentioning.
work was that of a constructive states- scramble to vote more bonds, espe-1
man. and many of the most salutory claliy when they are offered a cheap I HOUCHIN FELT IT
lighting deal by the present well t
provisions of that law are due to.hts
foresight and wisdom. The commit- equipped street railway people.
tee, of whlclThe was the leading spirit,
exposed and drove from Washington A $100 plate glass window in Webb's
the corrupt lobby. His work in both drug store was broken by heat from a
these great matters was such as to blaze In a contractor's tool shed
bring fiom President Wilson words of i Wednesday night at Sixth and Francis
praise and thanks. In the halls of the streets,
senate the voice of Senator Reed Is
Hiways ruist-u in ueiimi oi wie priui'i-,
pies of Democracy, He Is recognized
i
But Like a True Soldier He Forgives
the Liars and Is Ready to
Help the Party
Hon. James A. Houchin, late Demo
cratic candidate for the nomination
for governor of Missouri, Is not the
only candidate who realizes the incon- and show
fought in the committee among itself
until Wednesday afternoon, while the
Democratic boys who met at the same
time to do what the Republicans were
to do namely, to elect a state chair
man and formulate a state platform,
were through In three hours and ready
to go home. The fight or rather the
two fights were good ones and were
pulled off regardless of rules. They
show the distinct and superb brand of
harmony which prevail in Republican
ranks In St. Joseph and in Missouri,
with what ease the grand
a11aj) nlotfnrm thnt uvnn the hlC
dallies only gave a synopsis of It. Here' Proprlatlon of $8 600.00a
is the complete Democratic platform:
What We 8tand On
"The Democratic party of Missouri,
in convention assembled, congratu
lates the state and nation that at
this tragic period of the world's his
ory we have at the head of the gov
ernment a president who has met all
International complications in a spirit
of dignify, firmness and fairness,
which has compelled the recognition
of our rlghhts as a great neutral
power and at tho same time retained
the respect and friendship of nil the
world.
"The nation's honor and the nation's
peace have been preserved by Wood
row Wilson.
"Wo reaffirm our allegiance to the
principles of Democracy and ratify
It took the Initial step toward the
promotion of a great system of na
tional good roads by appropriating
$80,000,000 to be expended in co-operation
with the states, thus Insuring
the expenditure of $160,000,000 and the
ultimate creation ot a general good
roads system, which will benefit every
farmer In the United States.
"The Republican party fastened
upon the country an unsound banking
and currency system, which concen
trated -the financial power In New
Votk and which has at frequently re
curring Intervals involved the country
In panics,
"The Democratic party abolished
panics by establishing a sound cur
rency and banking system; It trans
ferred the seat of financial authority
from Wall street to government con-
as the ablest debater In the great
forum of the senate. His return to the
senate Is a national need.
"The Missouri congressional dele
gation Is one of the ablest at Wash
ington. In all Important legislation
It has taken a leading part. The splen
did personnel of our nominees Is a
guaranty that the state will continue
to be represented by true and faithful
exponents of the rights ot the people.
Tribute to Clark.
"Missouri Is proud of Speaker
Champ Clark. 1'he foremost contender
for the presidential nomination In
1912, he accepted his defeat with
grace and courage, and since has given I
to President Wilson a support so sin-
cere and strong as to win the love
and admiration of the whole Amerl-'
can people. ,
"The Democratic party presents to .
the state a ticket composed of men I
of tho highest character, experienced!
In Important affairs and ot proven In
tegrity. At its head Is Hon. Frederick
D. Gardner, who has already demon
tsrated his keen Interest In the farm
ing and Industrial classes, and his abil
ity as a constructive statesman, by
originating and forcefully advocating
.
NOW THE COLONEL'S HOME
There's a grin on Mr. Penrose;
There's a smile on Mr. Crane,
Even Barnes is looking pleasant,
though It goes against the
grain.
All the former malefactors, all
the short and ugly gents
Are Investing In libations, quite
regardless of expense,
Qulgg Is speeding 'round In cir
cles, shouting "Bully" now
and then.
For old Armageddon's over, and
the Colonel's back again.
In a corner, all neglected, cob
webbed o'er and red with
rust.
Lies the nlneteen-twelve steam
roller half obscured in
gathrlng dust,
And the openhanded Perkins,
with a happy little laugh,
Is engaged upon the skinning of
a fatted bull moose calf.
Golly! What a grand old home
week!
Far beyond a feeble rome
To describe it Jubilation, now the
Colonel has come home.
slstencles and the frivolity of men and
campaign pledges. There are numer
ous Democratic candidates in St. Jo
seph and Bychanan couniy who now
realize that hundreds of men whom
they had heretofore esteemed and
honored as men of truth and veracity
forgot all about It when it came to
the ballot box. A letter received from
old party will "carry" the imperial
state of Missouri this tall just lack
ing 50.000 majority.
Well, jst to show what was the
result It is not out of place to say
that on Monday night the Head crowd
pulled one over on the Albas eroicd
and sent Bill Pbares of Nodaway
county and Walt Head of this city- as
Mr. Houchin this week tells Its own delegates after the chairman had re-
Btory this way:
The results ot the recent primary
are beyond my comprehension. They
would Indicate that there never was .
the slightest ground upon which I
might base a hope of success.
fused to honor Albus proxies because
they did not bear a revenue stamp.
In the meantime John Albus had post
ed oft to Jefferson City with a special
brand of credentials with which he ap-
Men encouraged me everywhere and , peared before the committee the next
indicated their willingness to work for , morning, but the committee by a rote
my nomination. I must have been of 19 to 1 did not seem t0 take fa.
vorably to thnt particular Issue. Some-
a message to tne people) "" " uwicr uuc mimui ucu wane
traded from one side of the state to
the other.
I carried
In which I believed. I Indulged In no not removing his entire headgear
abuse of any candidate. There is noth- when he meets our own John Albus.
Ing upon which I need to "back track " but ,ee, ,hat he ghou,d at ,eagt uu
UmvAVAf ? odpatit tYta varAtit ft a Islu
IIMnnri, a Mi-vv syv - mv mm
rendered by the people. My hand Is passes.
brim of his hat to John as he
Not for what he stands tor
! extended to the victor and my services but for what he stands, for after our
i tendered to our party. I am willing Jonn nad f0Ught 'em for a solid week
and then when he slipped down to
to
my
i-nrlf In thp ranks nlvp of
mnanc ,1n all w-ltMfl mv nnu-or tn hnln
I elect the ticket from Woodrow Wilson Jeff and Sot hl8 head bumped 19 to
down, and hope that my friends will 1. he was an deck here at home
do likewise. Wednesday morning with that same
I I shall never be able to repay my old heartJ. laUKh and that bame old
j JAS. A. HOUCHIN, 1som ne he knew.
...a..-.v... J.. I
