THE BARRE BAILYTIME
S
VOL. XX NO. 1G9.
HAItHK. VKHMOXT, SATUKDAV. AUCUST an. ion;.
PRICK. OXK CKXT.
KILLED WHOLE
GARRISON
Bulgarians Captured Greek
Fort of Startela on the
Saloniki Front
DEFENDERS MADE
SHARP RESISTANCE
Official Announcement Made
That Bulgarians At
tacked Kavala
Park, Aug. 2fl. The Bulgarians have
attacked and raptured the Greek fort of
fitartila after killing its commander and
entire garrison, which offered spirited re
sistance, says a Saloniki despatch to l.o
Matin. Tha despatch wa dated Aug. 23
but wan delayed.
Official announcement wan made hern
last night that the Putgariana have at
tacked Drama and the seaport of Kava
la, both garrisoned by Greek troops.
This announcement ia confirmatory
of press despatches from Greece during
the last few days in which It ai stated
that fighting van in progress between
the Grnsks and Bulgarians. The report
ed attack on Kavala threatens to make
the situation between Greece and the
central powers acute. Ever since the
first Balkan war Sofia has claimed that
Kavala was one of its rightful fruits of
victory and its concession to Greece has
been the source of much ill feeling.
Apparently, from the French state
ment, the allied troop do not plan an
advance on the right wing as British cav
alry detachments are reported to have
destroyed bridges ovpr the Angista river.
On the left wing Paris reports "appre
ciable'" progress for the Serbians and the
rapture of several Iftindred prisoners. In
the center, where the main effort of the
allies is expected, heavy artillery action
is taking pl.ice.
The official statement issued last even
ing by the French war office is as fol
lows :
"East of Lake Tahinos English cavalry
patrols, out-maneuvering the enemy,
have crossed the river Angista and have
blown up severat bridges.
The towns of Kavala and Drama.
which have always beerj occupied by
Greek garrisons, have been attacked by
the Bulgarians.
"In the Struma region there bas been
somewhat vigorous fighting between the
advanced corps of the two armies and
some skirmishes have occurred in the di
rection of the Beles mountains. Toward
Lake Doiran and on the right bank of
the Vardar vigorous artillery struggles
are in progress. Our troops are organ
izing the territory conquered in the
neighborhood of Ljumnica.
On our left wing the Serbian troops
have marie appreciable progress in the
region of Kukuruz. Violent counter at
tacks directed by the Bulgarians against
our positions northwest of Lake Ostrovo
have been repulsed by the Serbians, who
have taken several hundred prisoners."
CRUSH IXG BLOW
GIVEN THE TURKS
Grand Duke Nicholas Halted Flanking
Movement and Is Free to Con
tinue Advance.
London, Aug. 2rt. .Wording to a Pet
rograd despatch the Tuiki.-h title nipt to
encircle the left tlank of the llussian
Caucasian army appears to hae received
a crushing blow from t" troops nl
Grand Duke Nicholas in the region of
Ijike an. The Turklch scheme of en
circling the left 11.4 nk and legaining F.r-
rerum, thus nullifying all the ucceci
of the grand duke in TurkUli Armenia,
appeared to lie well on iU wav to a sue-
ccsnful outcome, but the Hiihuan rcoccu-
pation of Mu.li and the re establishment
of their positions we-t of 1iike Van ap
parently has put a definite o,uiftus to
the ambition of the Turks. The initia
tive now appears to be with the Bus
hian. Grand Duke Nicholas can con-
tinue his march toward Axis Minor.
The task of turning the lot t flank of
the Russians in southern Armenia and
western Persia was entrusted to the
Mush group of the Turkish forces, which,
reiiiforct-d by troops from every part of
European and Asiatic lurkey until theyj
far riutnutiiltered the Hussum army op
posing them, begun the northeastern
drive in the direction of Erernm. The
Turk's appeared early in Augui-t to be in
a fair way toward accomplishing the
tak.
The turning point csme soon after the
Turkish occupation of Mush when the
Russian line stiffened suddenly. The
battle continued uninterruptedly until
Thursday, when the Turkish forces, de
spite their reported superiority in num
bers, fell back under the Russian as
sault, conducted from the regions of
Melasgucrd and Gniskala, and left Mush
again in Russian hands.
The expedition which the Turks sent
out from Rivandouza toward Persia like
wise came to grief near Ilachta, where
two regiments were captured by the Rus
sians, according to war office statements.
Apparently, from the French tate
ment, the allied troops on the Saloniki
front, do not plan an advance on the
right wing, as British cavalry detach
ments are reported to have destroyed
bridges over the Angista river. On the
left wing Paris reports "appreciable''
progress for the Serbians and the cap
MAKE-NEW TRY
IN CHAMPAGNE
Germans Delivered Infantry
Attack West of
Tahure
PENETRATED LINE
BUT WERE EXPELLED
German Attacks on Somme
and Verdun Fronts
Repulsed
Paris, Aug. 2(1 After an intense bom
bardment lat night the Germans
launched an infantry attack west of Ta
hure in Champagne. They penetrated
Frenc h pf it ion.-.. I he wur t.flice. an
nounced to-day, but subsequently were
expelled.
German attacks on the Somme and
Verdun fronts were rcpubed.
The German attack on the Rnnrme
front was made at hill 121 near the town
of Maurepas, recently raptured by the
French.
tin the Verdun front east of the river
Meu-e the Germans attacked the French
line lietwcen Fleiiry and 1 hiaumont aft
er a heavy liornbardmctit, but were able
to make no advance.
Aerial engagements occurred all along
the front and three German aeroplanes
were shot down in the Somme sector.
Six others were damaged and two tier
man captive balloons were destroyed.
CALLS PRES. WILSON
GOOD NAVIGATOR
For Steering tha Nation Through "Tor
tuoua Water and Whirlpools in Its
Fixed Course, Secretary Dan
ids Piaises His Chief.
Jackionxille, Me., Aug. "fl. Jephiia
Daniels, secretary of the nsvy, declared
in a speech here to day at a Methodist
rsinpiiieeting that the American people
owed President Wilson a debt for having
kept the country out of tho war In Ku
rope and the conflict in Mexico. Secre
tarv Psniels said :
"It is the easiest thing in the world
for an executive to so ai t a to plunge
his country Into war. Hut it requires
statesmanship to ateer the ship of stale
through tortuous waters and whirlpools
on its tixed course. In these days of
crisis an excitable navigator would have
sent the craft upon the rocks.
"For two years the American people
nave Keen tense In their Interest, hone
fill that their president would continue
to he a safe pilot ami (liristian men and
woment have prayed that he might be
guided by the rules of the universe, so
that, without sacrifice of American
rights, peace might reign on this continent.
"I 'here lias never been any rrason why
this country should engage in the war
aeros the seas. I ssy this with due re
gard to the opinions of those who have
been Indulging in carping criticism be
cause the president did not send an army
and navy to engage in war with tier
many because the troops of that country
entered ISelgium in the early days of the
war."
Secretary Daniels spoke of the big
A NEW PLAN
FOR WILSON
Was Submitted by Railroad
Executives, Holds to
Arbitration
MEN CLAMORING FOR
A PROMPT SOLUTION
They May Strike if Matter
Is, Not Concluded
To-night
Washington, T. C, Aug. 2u After
the heads of the four great brotherhoods
threatening a nation-wide strike had
gone to tho White House yesterday with
warning that their men would not
wait longer than to night for a reply
from thn railroad executives to Presi-
lent Wilson's suggestion that an eight-
hour day he granted, the executives
agreed on a counter proposal to be sub
mitted to the president to day. This
plan, holding to the demand for arbitra-
navy as a guarantor of American prinltion which the employes have declared
VETERANS ENTERTAINED.
Are Being Taken Into the Homes
Kansas City.
in
Kansas City. Auij. 2f - Kansas Citv
ture of several hundred prisoners. In the , houe holders welcomed tntit thei,- homes
center, where the main effort of the al- to-dav, great numbers of un;on vtterans
lies is expected, heavy artillery action is
taking place.
of the Civil war here to attend the an
nual enram
ciples, saying: "We are not a belliger
ent nation. We wish thot everv country
would join us in submitting all contro
versies to arbitration. There must be an
international tribunal to hear swid set
tle international differences with power
to enforce its decrees. I'ntil the nations
come to this wise course no nation can
afford to reduce armement or fail to be
prepared to defend its right to 'be free
and pursue its own policy. So matter
how peaceably inclined America is, as
long as there are powerful nations co
vetous to bestride the earth our only
safety is in preparedness.
"I am ambitious that my country
shall have a strong and powerful navy.
It must have nothing else while other
ONE FAILED TO RETURN.
Rritiih Aeroplanes Make a flash fiver
. . iu7 inn j-oiuirin itie in ui'Jiieru I tneom-
Belgium. stances, the citizens were afkel by the
London, Aug. 26. British aeroplanes j local committee to take care of as many
have made another dash over Bolgium. I of the visitors as they could. Besides
penetrating yesterday to the vicinity cf jthe veterans quartered m private homes.
Xamnr, 33 miles southeast of Brussels, I others were assigned in a lartre dance
and bombarding German airship sheds, j hall fitted out with cots. Other teni
two of which were hit. On account of j pore ry homes have been arraiured.
npmcnt of the Grand Army of nations are armed, hut I hope the day
die. Between 1 ." f X ; an 1 O"-''" nfRT at hand when international ar-
fsiO veterans hive reaci.ed tb citv -n I riUl0n ,xh PnweT fo enloree its ie
hecause capacity of hotels, boarding- t ' r,', wl" rni,k" ,l ""necessary to iu-
houses. was taxed and because many of I P"'"" ta i"",' quarters of a billion
ikiilars for the army and navy, .t h; navy
bill points the way to an end to world
wide competitive building, and I hope
the low lying clouds it was not possible
to observe the amount of damage done,
the official statement says. One British
machine failed to return.
AN UNEXPECTED WINNER.
LONDON SUBURBS
WERE BOMBARDED
British Statement Admits That Zeppelin
Dropped Missiles in Yesterday
Morning's Raid and That
There Were Many Cas
ualties. London, Aug. 26. Zeppelin airships
bombarded the outskirts of London early
yesterday, killing and wounding twenty
nine persons. The electric power station
and the engineering works were damaged
by bojibs.
Six airships took part in the raid.
Cities on the eastern coa?t were attacked
as well as London, wlule one airship
penetrated far inland. Ships off the coast
were also attacked.
In the first oificial statement issued
by the war oltice no mention was made
of the attack upon London, but a later
statement issued yesterday afternoon,
gave details of it.
Ihirty bombs were dropped m the
eastern counties, the official report says,
but in tnat district there were no cas
ualties, nor was any Berioua damage
Hons.
The Zeppelin which reached the sub
urbs of London dropped bombs which
resulted in the following casualties:
Killed, three women, three men and
two children; seriously injured, three
men and four women; slightly hurt, sev
en women, four men and three children.
The supplemental report of the war
otlice, issued yesterday afternoon, fol
lows :
"Two or three Zeppelins passed over
ttie eastern counties and dropped 20
bombs, but there were no casualties and
no damage w-as done.
"A' Zeppelin attempted to approach a
seaport, but was driven off by guns. It
flew eastward after dropping 19 bombs
in the sea without reaching ita ob
jective. Another Zeppelin over the
snuthea stern coast waa compelled by
gunfire to unload her bombs in the sea
without doing any damage to life or
property.
"Another raider succeeded in reaching
the outskirts of London, where explo
sive and incendiary bomba were dropped,
causing casualties among the civilian
population. I area men
Esperanza Captured the 2:06 Trot at
Cleveland.
Cleveland, Ohio, Aug. 2ti. The closing
dav of the grand circuit race meeting at
Xorth Randall yesterday provided one of
Convention hall, the place ;or ti.; for
mal meetings of the veterans has ben
divided into booths in width scattered
members of regiments may re-unite One
of the booths has been turned over to
the pension bureau t Washington, at
request of E. ('. Tieman, acting com
missioner, and in its questions pertaining
to pensions will be answered.
A thousand boy scouts will act as
guides and aids to the veteran' while,
they are here. Under the direction of
Dr. James If. Sowerby, chief scout ex
ecutive, thev have been trained to serve
and pray all the navy builling nations
will join witn us in this much to be de
sired federation of man which will usher
in a century of peace where the war
drum will be heard no longer.
OFFICER KILLED BY WOMAN
the bigtrest surprises of the meeting when j the soi,ii(,r,"in VPry way. Special train
Killv Durfee placed Esperanza, a rank
outsider, first in the summary in the
2:0ti trot, winning the third and fourth
heats after Joan, the favorite, had taken
the opening mile, and Director Todd the
second.
In the other events, the favorite had
fairly easy going. The pacing division of
the champion stallion stakes proved easy
for Peter Look. He won first money in
straight heats and never was in danger
of defeat.
Pop" Geers rode his first winning race
of the meeting, when, with Napoleon Di
rect, he took the free-for-all pacine fea
ture. He headed Single ("J. and Hal Boy
in three straight heats, nut was com
pelled to step fast, going one last quar
ter in :273t.
Allie "Watts, slight favorite over Bin-
ville, in the first section of the 2:13 trot,
disposed of her fie.ld in straight heats,
whilo in the second division Pittsburg
was victorious. Although Pittsburg made
a bad break in the final mile, which was
won by Ben. McOregor, he proved himself
ing in first aid work haa been given the
youngsters.
"Whenever you speak to a veteran,
call him 'comrade,' " said Dr. Sowerby in
his final instructions. "They are keen
for helping the old men," Dr. Sowerby
said, "and I can imagine the stories the
veterans will tell them. It will he good
training for the boys and should be of
great service to the men of the Grand
Army."
PROMINENT CATHOLIC.
Archbishop John L. Spalding Died at
Peoria, IlL
Peoria, 111., Aug. 26. Archbishop John
Lancaster Spalding, who has been in
failing health the last two weeks, died
here yesterday afternoon.
The Most Kev. John Lancaster Spald
ing was consecrated bishop of the Ro
man Catholic diocese of Peoria, May 1,
IM7i, and resigned because of ill health,
the class of the field as lnnr h .t, . fepi. n, wm. in tile following May he
on a trot, and won first money by taking was created titular archbishop of Scy
the two opening heats. Ben. White drove P"n'IS-
Lee Axworthy an exhibition mile, but I nnp m lae mc1 prominent
oniy equalled 111s record or :()u'4, in
Capt. E. J. Spratling of Georgia National
Guard the Victim.
Macon, Ga., Aug. 20. Capt. Edgar J.
Spratiing of F company, 5th rgiincnt,
National Guard of Georgia, was shot and
killed in his tent at the state mobiliza
tion camp near here yesterday by Mrs.
I. C. Adams of Atlanta. At the county
jail last night, where she was held on a
charge of murder, Mrs. Adams, who is
about 30, asserted that ('apt. Spratiing,
who is a physician, had offended her by
attentions paid her several Weeks ago
while she was in his office in Atlanta for
treatment. "'
According to Lieut. Samuel A. Kvsor
of F company, who seized her a moment
later, she cried out as she shot the offi
cer, Y011 have ruined my home.
According to information received
here, Mrs. Adams left her home in At
lanta shortly after her husband, who is
employed at a laundry, had gone to
work, leaving her and the couple's three
small children at home. She said last
night she had previously told her hus
band of alleged improper relations be
tween her and the physician.
Capt. Spratiing, who was 47 years old
and married, was well known in medical
and social circles in Atlanta. He was
regarded as an expert on insanity, and
once was connected with the Matteawan
New York asylum in that capacity.
they unalterably opiiose proposes:
That the question of an eight hour
day is not directly connected with the
matter at issue and tliat there is a
difference lietween an actual eight hour
day and an eighthour day as a basis for
pa V.
that question of increases of wages
are undisputably questions which should
be settled by arbitration.
That the present demands of the train
men lie submitted to arbitration by
the interstate commerce commission or
some board to be created by the presi
dent or in some other manner.
That if the arbitrating board finds
wage increases should He granted their
finding will lie retroactive and the in
crease will take effect from the time the
arbitration begins.
That a fund shall be crested by the
railroads to provide for this contingency,
the interstate commerce commission to
keep whatever accounts will be necessary
and to continue in force for a time not
vet determined on, the men sgTeeing
that during the period of arbitration
there shall be no further demands nor
any atenipt to strike.
A draft of this report was submitted
last, night by the committee of eight
presidents, who have been constantly at
work on its various phases for a week.
There was some discussion, but only one
vote was taken and by it the 60 presi
dents and the managers approved the
draft Some slight additions to the
phraseology are to be made and the final
draft presented at another meeting this
morning. From that meeting the report
is expected to be taken to President Wilson.
CLIMBED BANK; TURNED OVER.
Automobile Fell on Man and Three Small
Children.
Middlebury, Aug. 2. -A Ford tour
ing car owned by (I. f. Piper nf Wry
biidge and driven by Iawiciic Gou
ld te, slso of Wry bridge, lelt tlw road
yesterday afternoon, when the driver
lost rnntrol of the machine, and it turned
turtle. Goulettn received a slight in
jury to his back and the three small
children, who were alo In the machine,
escaped with whole skins.
the accident occurred near the west
entrance to the government farm at
Wryhridge, the machine going into a
ditch shout three feet deep. It followed
the gutter about oo feet when the driv
er attempted to regain, the road, the
machine shooting up the steep laiik and
turning twittnm side up. landing on the
top which was up at tjie lime.
Several of the employes at the govern
ment farm saw the accident and hurried
to the scene but before their arrival
the occupants had crawled out from be
neath the machine. Mr. Ooiilette com
plained of a pain In his back but was
able to walk to bis home.
The men righted the car which was
badly damaged, the top being crushed,
windshield and fan franm bnocen, 111111I
guard bent, front axle sprung ai,d steer
ing gear damaged. The machine was
towed to Middlebury by a car from the
Stokes garage.
GOOD GAINS
BY RED MEN
Vcnr Nv, Great Council Has
; Members, an In
crease of 133
. V
CONVENTION ENDS
AT MONTPELIER
The New Great Sachem h
E. C. Barrett of
Montpelier
WAS HEAVILY FINED
For Tarring Boy Caught Stealing His
Apples.
Rutland, Aug. 2H.-Edward F. Shelvey,
a Rutland merchant who has a small es-taf-
on the outskirts of this city, was
yesterday fined ?!', with costs of $17. S4,
by City Judge F. G. Swinnerton for put
ting a coating of tar, mixed with a poi
son used for insoct killing, over a jxir
tion of the bodies, the hair and the cloth
ing of John Gcmo and Thomas Groonel,
lrfith aged eitfht years, who were rauirht
stealing apples on Shelvey 's place. She!
vy pleaded guilty to the charge of
breach of the pence.
According to th" boys testimony, be
trok them forcibly into a
smeared them freely with the mixture.
The poison so irritated the lads' skin
that it was necps-ary to call a doctor.
It will lie necessary to shave th-e heads
of both to get rid of the tar in the hair.
Each boy had taken three apples.
When Mrs. Groonel went, to see Shel-v-y
he threatened to tar and feather her
unless she left the premises at once. The
parents of both children will probably
bring action for civil damages.
With the business meetino and election
of officers vesterdar afternoon, the
eleventh annual meeting of the Vermont
great council, Improved Order of Hcd
Men, ramn to a Hosn in Montpelier.
Grand Sachem Alexander Ross of Ilarra
presided at the business meeting which
was hcM in the h. of P. hall with about
seventy representatives In attendance.
Reports of the officers showed the total
membership of the order in the state to
be low, a gain of 135 during the year.
Thn officers elected follows: Great
Sachem, K. ('. Barrett, Montpelier; great
prophet, pt Grand Sachem Alexander
lioss of Barre; great senior sagamore,
Charles Brockingham of Brattleboro.
ONE AUTOIST ARRESTED.
Near West
After Two
DROVE AUTO NEGLIGENTLY
HUGHES MET WITH CHILL.
It
DESTROYING MONEY.
stead of beating it.
STRIKE AT BANGOR
Street Railway Employes Ask for Recog
nition of Union.
Bangor, Me., Aug. 2(5. Employes of
Great Deal of Mexican Bill Made into
Pulp.
Mexico City, Aug. 2rt. The destrue-
i prelates ot tue ttoman catnoiic cnurch in
the middle west states and received tion of the so-called Vera Cruz issue of
nation-wide notice when President Roose- Mexican currency and the issuance of the
velt named him as one of the arbiters , new paper money known as "infalsiflca
to settle the anthracite coal strike in ' bles" have made the government printing
1902, He was the author of several i office one of the busiest spots in Mexico.
books dealing with labor topics, and also The Vera Cruz billa, over $.".0,000,000
wrote several works on religious ques
tions.
For two hundred and fifty years the
tne Bangor Kailway 4 Lleetnc Co., oper- ancestors of Bishop Spalding lived in
atlng the street railway lines here, to- America, tha flr.t, of the nam mm.
aay inaugurated a strike for union vec- to the new world being a follower of
worth of which have been destroyed, are
cut into stripe in a hydraulic press,
transformed into pulp and made into
cardboard and pasteboard, of which there,
is great scarcity. This product finds a
ready sale, and it is possible that tho
Was from the Atmosphere, Rather
Than from Audience.
Chevenne, Wvo., Aug. 2fl. Charles E.
Hushes last nit'ht addressed an audience
at Frontier park here on the importance
of npbuilding American industries to
meet Furowan competition after the
war. This, he said, could not be done un
der a tariff for revenue only, but could
be accomplished under a protective tariff
such as the Republican party proposed.
Mr. Hughes spoke to an audience that
shivered in the cold night air, notwith
standing heavy wraps and overcoats.
"We have set aside our differences in
order that we may achieve great national
aims, Mr. tiugnes said. niese aims
8 re so high that they transcend every
possibility of difference. I come as the
spokesman of an historic party, reconse
crated to its best ideals and pledged to
the service of this great nation at an ex
tremely critical time."
Mr. Hughes reiterated his declaration
that he favored the appointment only of
competent, experienced men to the diplo
matic service. He also assailed the ad
ministration's foreign policy and cited its
course toward Mexico as "a conspicuous
example of what we ought not to do.
Burlington Man Was Convicted By the
Grand Jury.
Burlington, Aug. 2fl. The jury in the
case of state against William E. Mon
geon of Winooski, into whose hands the
case was given by Judge C. S, Palmer
yesterday at 11:30 o'ejoek, returned a
verdict of guilty shortly after 2 o'clock
in the afternoon. Mr. Mngeon stands
convicted on the charge of having driven
fils automobile in a careless and negli
gent manner, and will receive his sen
tence from Judge Palmer at ft o'clock
Monday morning, j
J. J. Ennght took up the argument
Cars Collided
Townshend.
Brattleboro, Aug. 20 -Two automo
biles came together near West Towns
hend yesterday afternoon throwing the
occupant of both out of their seats and
barn and damaging the cars but without causing
serious injuries. Clifford t.obb of Raw
son ville, driver of one of the cars, is
under arrest at, the county jail in New-
fane, charged with reckless driving and
will be given a hearing before Judge
Frank E.. Harber of the municipal court)
in Townshend. He was accompanied by
some young men.
The other car is owned by Mark Mer
ri field of New York, formerly a well
known hotel man there. His sister,
Miss Carrie Merrifleld, of New York was
one of the occupants. She says the Mer
rifleld car crossed to the left side of tha
road in an effort to dodge the other
machine and both were damaged on the
right side.
BURIAL TO BE IN RANDOLPH.
Mrs. Guy E. Louden Died in Burlington
To-day.
Pitirlington, Aug. 2fl. -Mrs. Guy E,
Louden died early this morning at her
home. 199 South t'nion street, from
the effects of an operation following a
several weeks' illness with typhoid fever.
she is survived by two children, David
for the defense when court was resumed ind Elizabeth, her mother, Mrs. Emm
yesterday morning and was followed by
T. K. Hopkins, state's attorney, who
prosecuted the case for thei state. Judge
Palmer, in charging the jury, cautioned
them not to consider the damage done
Mr. Levigne'a machine, which collided
with that of Mr. Mongeon, but to base
their verdict on whether or not the de
fendant was running his car in a careless
and negligent manner, as charged by tha
state.
TALK OF TIIE TOWN
SMUGGLING ALLEGED.
ognition. In accordance with a strike j LorJ Baltimore. During the reigns of ! government may alst destroy old docu-
vote taken last night, the cars wsrelKine Henry VLTI and Oueen El in both
taken to the barns soon after 9 o'clock i in England the Spalding family was dis-
murmug. .10 aemanas were made ; tinguislied for its loyalty to the Catholic
by the men as to wages or hours of la-
Bor.
church.
Bishop Spalding was born in Lebanon,
ments to produce material for a govern
ment box factory in the near future.
The department now is working at
hieh pressure to turn out the new "in
falsificable'' $2 bills, sorely needed be-
Two Steamship Company Employes Ar
rested in New York.
Xew York, Aug. 2fi. Charged with
smucaling into the country jewels valued
at JC5.0O0, Fred Uffelman, landing bag
gage agent ( the Norwegian-American
Steamship line, and Hans Edward
Thompson, an employe of the compear
John Montini, a granite cutter, and
Blossom Ossola, of North Main street left
the city last nisrht for Boston, where the
former is to submit to an operation on
his right eye. While- employed at the
plant of Novell! Calcagni last Mon
day, a flying fragment of steel struck
the cutter in the eye. He continued at
the banker until the whistle sounded at
4 o'clock, and then consulted an eye spe
cialist, who removed the steel. On the
following day, the member troubled him
azain, and on the occasion of his second
visit to the doctor, he was told that a
cataract was forming. As the eye did
not respond to treatment, he decided yes
terday to consult a specialist in Boston
Messrs. Montini and Ossola expect to be
absent several days.
Depot square folk figured in an im
promptu stock judging contest this
morning when a driver employed by
Charles Whitcomb of Orange swung into
the plaza with a couple of heavy steers
in front of him. As the heavy haulers
were being guided to the Calder i. Rich
ardson scales, speculations as to how
L. Maelntyre of Randolph, and a brother,
Dr. H. I). Maelntyre of .New York.
There will be a prayer service at 9:30
o'clock Sunday morning at her late homa
and the body will be taken on the noon
express to Randolph, where burial will
he in the family plot in the Randolph
cemetery.
MONTPELIER
Democrats Decide ta Run C. E. Lowe fof
Representative.
At a meeting of members of the Dem
ocratic party in the city hall last even
ing, C. E. Iiowe of Mather Terrace street
was selected as the choice of the party
in the city to be a candidate for city
representative. Mr. Lowe was formerly
a granite manufacturer, being a member
of the firm of Lowe , Mercer, whose
plant was destroyed by fire several years
ago. He is president of tne local aeno
of Eagles and one of the best known men
in the" city. He will be opposed by Jo
seph G. Brown or William A. Lord, both
of whom are candidates for the Republi
can nomination.
LITTLE CHILD DROWNED.
Ky., June 2, 1840. lie wis educated at'0"'"' of the scarcity of small chanire.
Mount St. Mary's college, Cincinnati, I ot on,y the modern presses, but even
' - attAii uiivu " wem, iu IJUUIA1II, CI" 1 " f - - - - - v.
Minutes.
tCT.n Tf p. it-, t . . rr ! JTium. where he received his detrres nf' i cxpved.te the work.
J "I. HiUUlCI 1UI M ICW , , ..... 13 I -pi . . , - ,
urn-Lor ui uiviuur m iso.. .arter oeinjr ' u.. "- -.. .; 'mp
ordained he went to Rome for a special i and rost car,1a printed under the Huerta
ny rue im-
ng the de-
drowned in the brook near fr Sa,i,t!er' ! nmared for his life's ork nomination.
home Thursdav n'turnniiii r-. v..iu. i tt u-m aumnol tr, ,. .tv,j..i ! The stamninsr out of copper coins has
was wita the child and left her for a few ! Louisville. Ky., and in addition to mis-'0"" w"?,,n- n1 a ' annonnred tins is ' or in- i-u. m ....... -i"-.'-
' i (a f. If I i 1 l - 1 ' - I i. axle- asnrl t nun rav a I .a m d n
Hinesburg, Aug. 2S. The two-vear-old i course of study in the Belgian college I Teim are being revalidated '
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Saddler wu land in ISfK returned to the L'nited Stales i P1? of "P"'al rfw. 'hngi
much the animals weiched arrew keen.
were arrakmed before t.'nited States ! Various iruesses were submitted with the
Commisisoner Houghton here yesterday. Iresult that Charles Rand, a granitecutter
.Atrents of the department of justice are!0,ltK;,i . number of farmers rafherinir
invest ijjat ing the additional charge that around the scales by hittinu upon the 'and 13 years of age as school children
Philip E. Ooodenough, who has been
employed in Springfield, Mass., for the
past few months, arrived in the city this
morning for a visit with rnenda until
after Ia bo r day.
The school census recently eompbtted
shows the total number of scholars of
school age, 6 to 17 years inclusive, to bn
1.571, of whom 793 are males nad 77
females. There are-also 126 children 3
yars of age, who are enumerated for ths
twnefit of the superintends of schoole
for the purpose of ascertaining how many
are eligible for the kindergarten. A re
cent law enacted by the legislature elim
inates the enumration of children of 5
the men have been the principals in an: exact weieht of the steers. 3..VM nounds
underground sv-stem of mail communica-j rr. Whitcomb's man seemed very well
tion between this country and tVrmany. j pleased w ith the show ing made by his
i ne nearing; ac tne ri-'jui-.. oi ui i. m
r.ners' counsel was postponed two weeks,
'.'he men were comnuttd to the Tombs in
default of .7.00 bail each.
According to testimony, at a hearing
before Special Deputy Surveyor of the
Port Smvth. large quantities of mail
cre safely despatched through the ''un-
denrround" route from the local branch
minutes while she went, tn t!i. v, j .inn.T- rf.rt; h itt i o be followed shortly by the coinage of
three women during her ahsencn th i;tu ..n ! plw Ttr,ro rr- i : T I both gold and silver.
and two caudrea were killed; three men into the water. ville until when at his own request
and four women wen, seriously wounded, , h WM rh with foiindi A riih
and lour men. seven women and three t . . D, ,?.. ( .
172 he had built and paid for a church r .. . 0. . r
-Ah! The chiming of the wedd:nj 1 and parlish house for Roman Catholic I5" Vai Stit" Government JoS,
bedls Inetrroes. i 514 in 1913.
-No. That is the Hr-.de's
crildren were sliahtlv injured. One sol
d:er was s-r:ousy injured and 1 others
were jliht'v hurt by broken g!aa.
"F'-rty bm lis w ere dropped. The most
cf then tcil unnj gma.l properties or ha to pa v the bills.
In tLe open. The Wtnc power plant! Judz.
was s.;:eK!v (iiinijM and the enir:neer-i
ir.s works somewhat damasred by rtre.
"There were several small tires, all
rf "v .-. , ere promptly extinguished.
Several persons era rescued by firemen.
Fr i, o'ned en the airsiup. whicn
p-'"a !,e-i L-nd n. and it s eom-
!"'! t ar :t course. AH in aj ion, knows h
1-in.Ss a-e kniTra ti hav he-n iron!. t x." L.:
SALE OF DEAD LETTER ARTICLES
:a; ler. w "io
sTinging his hand.-.'
hasjen, Iienmark. and thence to Germany.
Mad fmm Germany was received in the
ssme way.
TALK OF THE TOWN
charges and continued on to Montpelier
Junction, wher they are to be shipped
to the state fair at. WTiife River Junc
tion. Inquiry this morning develops the in
formation that all rhool here in the
city, including iioddar.1 seminary, and
Barr.1 Town are included in the order
from State Supt. M. P.. llillesras defer-
Jring the opening of cliool until Sept. 19
as a precautionary measure against in
Gardeners and others who are interest
ed in horticulture will be leaned to learn
Washington. D. C Aug. 2(5. The dead j that Maurice Fuid of New York City,
Too Good.
Straiurw Marv doesn't hav anv ot-
?ood
fers!
w::e."
"Yes: but
he i make oaie man
tie troui-le
make L.iu a
-y .r.e
i.
; negroes.
S He moved to New York shortly after
)tne oeai.i or nis uncie. ta .Most Kev. M.j letter rW of the ptn:fW department who spoke in Barre last spring, wiil give
! J Spa.d.na-. the arcr.bsshop of Baltimore. rivei the greatest number und.-iiv-'a lecture in the vstrv of the Consre?
;snd oevo'ed M-veral years to writing alerahle pa.-ka- in 191 1 when they num-i t.rnal church Tuesday even. pit at 7:4.v
j biography of that prelate. He tt4 j beri 13.61.41i Sine. that, time there ' o'clock. Te cmc department of the
I" ',at Pn''f St- Miciarihas been a decrease each rear and n I-rre Woman s club is ta bav. charge of
, church. New Wk, tor several yar and j 1013 the n mber was M.7s!.927. E.-a f th mtitg and no dmta-mq will he
:wh..e in t.,:s fK.-it.on was appointed i year tVre :s a sa of aficlea found 'n : ,--a-rd. Mr. FuM baa written hatit-
Mrs. Charles DollofT left this noon for
Lancaster, X. H., where she will spend
week visiting her daughter and other
re ia fives.
Adjutant -General Lee S. Tillotson. who
has been in the city since Tuesday at
tending the special sesion, left this
morning for his home in St. Albans.
Fred A. Howlsnd, president of the Na
tional Life Jnsursnce compsny, and Chas.
F. Lowe left this forenoon for the St.
Bernard club. ( anada, to spend a week.
Local telephone employes, linemen and
operators went this forenoon to Burling-
fantile paralysis. 'Supt. C. H. UTiite of .ton to attend th annual field day of the
Aew rntriann iciepnon. iriritnipn in.,
to be held at Queen City park. There
will He a bsehall game and all kinds of
setters i.ir th. t:irtmnt on
' "ri ": un.ter Bisacp .spii-i ahie t find owners. The prv-;. of 'and f!o-.ver rultur, and his servers bave;std that the ,rt-nt nf th ,v-Vr to
S ...:.::.cn grew .rna 1 to iX th:a sa'e last Tr 3JuuaiaU Ut iCi.-' t-n in wide demand as a consult, r ex- ' have p.iHi;,- iini private rb-ds al:ke v
-iur.-aes.
Hi.
the citv schools wa out of the citv to
day, attending an assembly of school su
perintendents, and itw as not known
whether he had been officially notilied. at!. Icf.c events. G. H. CoHsmer of Barre
Pr.n. If. If. Jacks-n of Spauidinjr bijh j general rbair.Tian in charge of the field
school giive it as his opinion that the Hay.
newspaper notices were official and that j When Montpelier lines up against Rut-
fh resumption of ,u.iona w. probably j land at In'eTcity park this aftern"n at
be deferred until the date mntioneJ m ! . oIok. R.ty (olhns. former star flinger
the report. Pr.n. tl. K. H.-lii-ter wss f,r the Boston R'l will be on the
uncr-rtain as to whether the order sp- J Pr ' tr line for the Wal, baring been aaw
plied to private srbooi untd he go4 in jciirH for th ope fame. R. A. Hsrria ef
touch w-it'i Supt. Hiisras hv teiephnpe , the Tenney corppa nr. who twirled a twf-th-
mnrnise. fr. H.liegss stHtantist ih:t sum s' Putised a week ajo tn mor
d fhe new.paper sforv of .-jt-r1v n ! : r. , w ra l'd to NfaHen. Mas.. Thnra-
isv. en rr; -he msisjemept witho'rt SI
f e ri-frer rveept .a.iasner, wn p-.tcaed
fer re-pemrg ur.td Sept. 1.
U f4eaia and FaarsUy.
o
