I
4 Vol. 27 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 29, 1916 No. 7 I
I' That Mexican Policy
J 'THE Democratic leaders evidently recognize the
fact that the president's Mexican policy is
liable to be a boulder in the road that may -wreck
his political automobile, and so are trying to
build a road around it. The secretary of the inter-
.1' ior on that account has consented to be interview-
p,l' ed by a New York World representative. The sec-
retary is a good dodger, but he finds the defense
' up hill business.
He begins by saying that "there are things that
: Democracy must always 'be willing to ngnt for.''
Indeed yes!
One of those big things is what they are light
ing for now the re-election of President "Wilson.
It promises to be about the biggest fight they
ever engaged in. He tells of the rule of force
.' and wealth that Diaz exercised for thirty years.
Evidently Diaz knew his countrymen and knew
the only course through which order and law
i 4 could be maintained there and pursued that
r ) ' course. He knew there were no elements of prog
t ress within the masses of them. He said so and
invited the strong men of other lands to come
'I and help him, promising them protection if they
would.
' Mr. Lane says that "fundamental lasting re-
forms must be put into effect by some one in
Mexico; that they cannot be made by the United
i States unless we are prepared not only to con-
: quer, but to annex Mexico."
Fortunately that does not happen to be a ques
tion at issue just now, though we have inter
i posed in Nicaragua and San Domingo without
annexing either country. And something was
likewise done in Cuba.
Secretary Lane says we could not recognize
Heurta. He was too bad a man, and rose to
power through crime; that "we did not land in
f Vera Cruz to force Heurta to salute the flag."
i
f That shows the secretary's nerve. Does he
count on the treacherous memory of the Amer
t lean people? Some of us have a dim recollection
I Qf the hasty order that sent the whole Atlantic
fleet to Vera Cruz. Destroyers, turret ships, gun
boats, cruisers dreadnaughts, and great battle
Ik ships; then the dramatic spread eagle speech,
more thrilling than a moving picture or comic
opera performance that the president made to
congress, asking that august "body to sanction
, what he had done. The burden of that speech was
I ; that the flag had been assailed and it could not
I be overlooked or condensed. A petty non-commis
sioned officer had insulted the crew of a row-boat
, I that had pulled ashore at Tamplco from a war
ishlp to get the1 ship's mail; the wharf-rat had put
the crew of the boat in the guard housev
So soon as the officer in command heard of the
incident he hastened, not only to release the
men, but profusely apologized for the outrage.
But when the president heard of it he demanded
of Huerta whom he had all the time refused to
oven r .nunicate with that he, three hundred
miles away, should formally salute the American
flag, which the doughty old soldier and assassin
declined to do. Then the president who had heard
for two years with calmness If not indifference
of Mexican outrages upon American citizens, sud
denly was roused to indestructible wrath, and
hurried away the fleet to the Mexican port, and de
manded of congress that it give formal recogni
tion of the righteousness of his wrath. And when
a few level-headed senators wanted to change
the obsequious resolution that came up to it from
the house and make provisions in it for the
president to go on and do something, they were
denounced by the Democratic press of the country
as failing the president in a mighty cnsia.
The national election came off a few days later
and 'the Democratic congress by reduced major
ities was sustained and Brazl Argentine and Chili
interfered and gave the na 'department an ex
cirse to call the fleet home.
But Secretary Lane asks:
"But what thing is there that any American
can say we ought to be willing to fight for in
Mexico? Is it "because railroads built with Ameri
can capital have been damaged, that mines have
been shut down, or even that American citizens
have been killed by outlaws and bandits? All
those things we can and do very much regret.
But, who will say that they are great principles
for which a Democracy should be willing to sacri
fice the blood of Its son."
The answer to that is that a nation that will
not protect its citizens is a disgrace, and when
a whole nation becomes a nation of bandits, or
the tools of bandits there is but one way to Btop
its outrages.
The president has recognized one of them, as
president and the chief officer which won for
him his peace, is the man who did the looting
and killing of Americans at Columbus, New Mex
ico, and who is now contemplating another raid.
The president's Mexican policy! Good! Good!!
On The Record
OUR Democratic orators will be out on the
stump pretty soon telling the people that they
should vote for Wilson electors because of the
record the great president has made. That ought
to cause earnest men to examine that record.
If they do, what will they find?
(1) We were to have the cost of living cut
down to a reasonable figure. How 13 that?
(2) We were to have taxes reduced through
Democratic economy and the passage of an in
crease tax law.
How has that been fulfilled? Have the taxes
been reduced? And as to the economy, is it not
true that all the millions exacted by the income
tax law have been spent in the running expenses
of this same Democratic administration?
(3) We were to have a moderate, just and
business revision of the tariff; no man doing a
legitimate business had any cause to be afraid.
Was it not a genuine Villa assassination of the
tariff? Did it not include the destruction of the
tariff on Utah sugar,- to put the men who raise
beets for the sugar mills on a direct equality and
in direct competition with the breech-clouted
semi-slave negroes of Cuba, and was it only tem
porarily avoided because the administration had
to leave it for the present in order to get money
for its daily expenses?
Is it not true that the effect of that "revision"
had prostrated business all over the eastern
states when the war in Europe burst upon an as- H
tounded world? J
(4) We were to have a great merchant ma- 1H
fine that without bounties-or subsidies was to re- j "H
store our flag in all its old glory to all the world's H
oceans? H
Has one ship for that now great and glorious
fleet been built up to date, though for two years H
this great Republic has had to depend upon the H
benevolent ships of Great Britain to do their i H
ocean-carrying work at double the old rates? H
(5) He has avoided war with Germany and 1 H
Mexico. H
Now suppose, say Benjamin Harrison, had H
been president when the first friction with Ger- H
many came. Does any one think that a dispatch H
would have come that the president has shut him- H
self up, denying all callers, for two days and a , H
night, to prepare a message to send to Germany H
and that in Washington the opinion was looked H
upon as very grave? H
Or would the president have dictated to a ste- H
nographer a few facts and quoted the law to back H
the facts which would have settled the whole ' H
business? I H
And as to Mexico, how will history treat the I H
part that the United States has played with Mex- H
ico during the past three years, the president's H
part we mean? H
A comic opera on the stage while the looting , H
and assassinations were going on behind the H
scenes. ,; H
By the way, if any Utah voter had a stock H
ranch down on the border these days, how would H
ho feel?
Viva la humbug! .
Democrats And The Tarriff H
AS one of the splendors of the Democratic 9
platform the Democratic press Is pointing to H
the clause favoring a tariff commission. H
It is said that Dead, Sea apples are beautiful H
to look upon, as beautiful as was that apple .. H
which caused our great grandmother Eve to even- H
tually become a dressmaker, but that they turn
to ashes on the lips. ' H
For that and other sufficient reasons the Amer- H
lean people will conclude that it was merely for H
buncombe that the classes found a place in the jJM
Democratic platform the same as caused several iB
planks to be inserted in the platform which the ftilfl
Democracy put out in 1912, and upon which Mr. ijjjH
Wilson, as the nominee, ran. If we remember jf'JH
right it favored free use of the Panama canal !
for coast shipping, a merchant marine, a mod-
erate revision of the tariff no man conducting a "S
legitimate business need be afraid. How differ- ,
ent the "hind sight" is from the "foresight" then!
Some of us have been advocating a tariff com-
mission for a great many years, but what Demo- . H
crat ever favored it, until the meeting of that i H
convention in St. Louis?
If there is any one thing that the American
people ought to have no doubt of it is the posl- H
tlon of the "er ncratic party on the tariff. If XH
If it ha hanged in the least since John C. I
Calhoun announced what it was three score and B
ten years ago, the changes cannot be detected by I
l
I
