4r
- THE 'WEATHBR FORECAST.
Generally fair to-daVr to-morrow fair
, and warmer.
Highest temperature yesterday, 78; lowest, 6a.
totalled weather, mall and marine report on pw i 1.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 333.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, JULY 29, 1916. CopyrigM, 11. h Bun Printing and Publishing AuoclaUon.
rtKTti npMrn In Greater New York. 1 KUewtiere,
UiO OrilIA Jersey City and Newark. (TWO CBNTfc
1 '.--A
,"V , ?'
J P. MORGAN'S
ESTATE VALUED!
AT $78,149,024
J'rcsi'iit Head of Finn,
Liu-jTest Bcneficiui'.v,
(Jots 53,08,18.
STATK WILL GAIN
AKOUT 1.000.000
Deductions for Debts and
Expenses Leave $00,
MW.732 to Tax.
JXTKHKST IX TWO
IIOI. SKS $lMI,75,775
Art Collections in Metro
politan .Miisetini Fixed
at U.37.3:20.
Tutsi assets of .1. I'lerpont Morgan's
tstate. is appraised fur inheritance tax
purposes, are $7fc,14'.,024. This In ex
tiujlve of property outside New York
Mate and of h remainder Interest which
.asi-fcl hy virtue of a power of appoint
went xiMed in Mr. Morgan.
Doliii Hons consisting of debt., ad
nilmrat!on expenses nnd executors'
( unniissinns .mount to ',7t4,3l4, leav
t"g Hie net estate $i;s.3!i4,S0. To this
Li added 1.1 15,0.".2, the present vitlue of
!Mt f iiml created in IS67 hy Mr.1"'
.lorc.tns latncr. Junius yptnccr Mor
S,.!i fr the bencllt of FruticcM 1-ouls.i
Tu. y M itKiin und over which J. 1.
Moriin had tho power of appointment.
T.ie total of all property subject to
llie Irjherltanco tax Is therefore $69,
M.7.J2. It Is estimated that the tax
ill l.e .itsjut $3,000,000, pf which the
t-tdte has already paid $2ri00,000 In
"rdtr to get the bencllt of reduction al
lowul f r prompt payment.
TI.e appraisal will be filed In the
."jrri gate's office of New York county
lu-di) It was tnude nubile yesterday
h Ifn iurm of n report by Transfer Tax prised of thre commissioners from end,
xpfirn -er John J. f.yons to the State country. Carrnnin ileslres that as little
i OTi;truIlei It Included fourteen 1 delay as poFslhle be made Incident to the
hcdule. i-otne of wliich were volumes 1 ''IM'olntment of the respective comml"
uftcxual thousand typewritten imses. nJeme(.""n'. ih" nrlnnrm""' 'he
i ne-.. ve. v.i. ! T e commissioners whom Carrnnra
Ihrri- Uor. Work. ,pnlntlvolv Pe!c,.(1 Br, ,
Mr. Morgan died In Home on March i '"Ih Cabrera, Secretary m the Treasury:
31. JSia, niirf tho nppratsul has been go- I Albert J. Panl, president of tile Mexican
lac an for nearly threr venr It xv is x,,,lo"n' Hallway, nnd fgnaclo flonllla.,
intru-teil to vnrlottH men whti had ex- I 'retary of ('ommunlcutlmv,
I'" kinmledgp of the many groups of Dimlit an Americans.
V ii "'nmriainj: tne cstnte. John,
M ii' n.nson, .ir., or
epreseiMeil the State
n- .-... ...
street
Comptroller ns
- . .1 cniitisel. farter,
r. Ledynrd ,
-M If.iii-i (1f .".4 Wall .street were counsel
C ir the executors and J. I. Morgan .Ir ,
f ii, 'i,iix Idual. ' "
T1,.' l.i. uest ,l'nel- ii, i. i ,,..
c-.n v i,'f.r,.t finn.s nf J, . Mor
.an i'o or Nexv York and Drexel Co
' I"' '.idelphla, appraised nt $29.1173,.
.7 The second largest Is stock and
'."In, M"!.!'3.1,9r,l.
I'.i rMngs In the Metropolitan .Museum
e ,i;.ntWil hy Ftoland F. Knocdler at
r ' ("ilntre porcelains by Thomas
h'rlO at $2,178,1120: lajiestrles, rugs,
Hie. cu-pets de 1ml and other alt
ll, u by Kmlle
.j ..in i
llaumgarten at $2,-
The ollc. tlon nf hooks manuscripts
I "H'l s u the Morgan librae.- in.
ali'.g ii astonishing number of orlg-1
i.i.aitiei I'lpta of famous works and
eiiiiions. i appraised by Klrby
'-'' m;..-i(i, The manuecrlpls sepa
'.'" ' c sihciluled at $2,094, 7,"5.
'"' Mm gal, real estate Is appraised at
1 I H.i It,
X aliie nf lleiiurats.
t V' ht Mrsi tune the value of many!
r.uet Is made known. The total
""sent value of the sharo of J. P. Mor
'i. Jr., the largest beneficiary. Is ut
Ka e,l at $53,Ci4,18. It Includes these
Hem.
!Je' ; $3,000,000
It.es, family portraits and
Jewelry 104,791
Piece of sliver llooo
furniture, silver plate, ornu-
ments and brlc a brnc... 405,774
Furniture and chattels at
.amp I'ricas 8,904
"emalnder Interost In a fund
"f J110.000 after the life
' tale of Lucy -Kldredge
l-ee therein 77,126
r.fi.,.ir(.r value In $100,000
"" Ufa entate of Kthel
Hangs Wallace therein.... 3S.086
11' iiamdee value In $114,414
sfler life rstate nf Frances
I in Tracy Morgan
'I'Teln 3U.K30
Jein.unde,' value In Crags-
I lit praised at $100,000.
s'ler ,fe eptalo of do-'den-
.xiilinv therein.... 70,099
i i 1. xalue In residence
' Muion avenue, ap
a. Md nt $125,000, after"
Te estate of decedent's
idnv therein 297,920
Jiim.ilnder value In 33 Last
Tlnity-slxth street, up-
I' njsed at $C5,000, after
life estate of decedent's
x (low therein 45,564
i.Hiiairider value In furniture,
I'ktures, tic, appraised nt
7llfi;i2, after the life
"W 'if decedent's widow
'lienln 521,600
lltslilui. of the estnle 47,6X7,450
lira, Mnratnn'a Nlinre.
The ,.,x-,ble hitertst In the share of
J,, l'riin( Louls,i Tracy .Morgan,
ttjd . ,f Mr Morgan, Is placed nt $S54,
li2 Ib r shair Includes ;
Life estate In $1,000,000 ; a life estate
;i 1111,114, a life estate In Craguton.
Piirni'iire, except family portraits,
'I'eelfi, ,,iy bequeathed, $32,999.
Life estate residence 211 Madison
letlU", $125,000,
Ufa estate In East Thirty-fifth
Ifef, $65,000.
Ufs estate in all furniture, pictures,
Coitffnued on fourth Pag.
PRESIDENT ACCEPTS
MEXICO PEACE PLAN
iSromlenin? of Commission's
Scope of Action Ajrroe
nblc. to Cnrrnnzn.
I.OXO INQUIRY COMING
Hcvlew by Both Governments
Will Hold Hosnlt Over
Election Day.
WAMttxnTu.v, July 3J. President
Wilton accepted to-day In modified form
Cnrranz.Vs ii...ti., ii,.. ,..,..
-no-...... n i,...ito. i yj ii uy uir i 'epari mem 01 t.omnicrce, is con
be appointed to deride Whether thai firmed by complete return Just tabu
American troops shall evacuate Mexico ! luted,
and to seyltf the difficulties now peudliiK
between the two countries.
The President's acceptance Is con
veyed In a note to the Mexican Foreign
Office, which ex-tlng Secretary of State
Polk handed this afternoon to Kllsro
Arredondo. the Mexican Ambassador
Designate. Assurances had alieady
oeen received here that Carra'nxa will
ccept the modifications .uci-e.trt i,..
this Onrernnient. i
niese inodlllcatlons arc that the eom-i
mission's scope of action be broadened i
o that other matters whk-h the I'nlted
States mav regard as pertinent to nn
Improvement In Hi fri.n.ii.. w.i...i....-'
of the two countries mav be establ'l-hed
farramia at first objected to this
suggestion on the ground that It would
needlessly d.lav the cutnmNsloira woik
and bring about no dec 4s "n elVtlva to
tl... wi.h,ie, ., .1" .1' rr
until possibly late In tho fall. ' i
Tho ir.i.i.. i
i.. i . . .. '
mi- iuuii ana vairanza nnauv nc
qulesced. The Presl.lent also stipulates
In his note that nothing done by the
commission wilt In any way be final
until It has been npproved by this fiov
ernment and the de facto government of
Mexico.
Delay l itllt After Klectlon.
This. It is said, makes It hardly poss.
me tnai any definite action nn !
r,"iu'hed before tho first Tuesday after
1 ,'on("'y in November. Car
ranzasi suggeHlon of definite action
forthwith Is thus transformed Into dl..
ciisclon on it broad nnd enlarged si-ale,
wnicii win not decide
but prcpate them In
future consideration.
nut the fact that
of discussion ha
leached eliminated
the eyes of officials
being, nn.1 at least
after election. This delny Is likely to be
the subject of an attack hy rtepubllcnn
members of Congress. '
The commission will meet somewhere
on the Jersey coast nnd trill 1. mm
j, , understood nt the Stato f)e:art
. . . : . -
nicnt that mere may he some delay and t
uncertainty about the naming of the ,
Amerlcnn commissioners. Hen. Uoethnls.
I-uls D. Hrandels, Associate .fustic? of
""' e"P'"''mp Coutt, and Judge Victor .1.
Dow-Ilier of New Yotk are understood to
bo under consldeintlon.
The note, signed by acting Secretary
Polk and nddressed to the Secretary of
Foreign Relations through Mr. Arredon
do. Is ns follows :
"Mr. Secretart : .
"I have tho honor to acknowledge re
ceipt of your Excellency's note trans
mitted under date of July 12 by Lie
Ellseo Arredondo, your Clovornment's
confidential agent In Washington, lu
forming mo that your Excellency has
recolxed Instructions from the citizen
First Chief of the Constitutionalist army
charged with the executive power of the
l'nn" lo propose that each of our ttov-
ernmenta nnirfc thretc ommlssloncn, xvho
shall hold conferences nt some pince to tie
mutually agreed uisin and decide forth
with the question relating to the evacu
ation of the American forces now In
Mexico, and to draw up and conclude a
protocol or agreement regarding the
reciprocal crossing of the frontier by
the forces of lioth countries, also to de
teimlne the origin of the Incursions to
date in order to fix the lespontlblllty
therefore and definitely to settle the
difficulties noxv pending or those which
may arise between the two countries
on account of the same or a similar
reason ; all of whlclj shall be subject to
the approval of both Governments.
Approves of Plans,
"In reply I have the honor lo atnte
that I have laid your Excellency's note
before the President and have received
his Instructions to Inform your Excel
lency that the (lovernment of the I'nlted
States Is disposed to accept the proposal
of the Mexican (jovernment In the samo
spirit of frank cordiality In xvhlth It Is
made,
"This f lovernment believes a ml sag
gests, however, that the powers of the
proposed commlsi.lon should bo enlarg'd
so Hint, If happily a aolutlou satisfactory
to both (lox'ernments of the question set
forth In your Excellency's comnuinlca
llnn may be reached, the commission
may also consider such other matters
the friendly arrangement of which would
tend to Improxe the relations nf the txvo
countries : It being understood that such
recommendations as (he commission mny
make shall not be binding upon the re
spertlve flovernmenta until formally ac
cepted by them.
"Should this proposal bo accepted hy
your Excellency's Oovernmcnt, I have
the honor to state that this Government
will proceed Immediately to appoint Ita
commissioners, and fix after consultation
with your Excellency's Government, tho
time and place and other details of the
proposed conferences,
"Accept, Mr, Secretary, the assurances
of my highest consideration.
"KltANK 1 1. Pol.K,
"Actinic Secretary of State.''
RETURNS $750,000 WAR PROFIT.
Canadian Cnrtrldatr Maker Ite
warded by Thank.
Ottaxva, tint.. July 28. I'rnflt on xvar
cdntrncla to the uuiount of $7ri0,0000,ave
been voluntarily returned to tho llrltlsh
tieaaury hy F. W. Palllle of Hamilton.
Ont., president of the Canadian Cur
trliejre Company.
In acknowledging the gift Sir Thomas
White, Minister of Finance, congratu
lated the donor for his "high patriotic
sentiment."
nresentable form for ana nnn Tli tear's Imports of rild ". ..... 7; ... "' ......... :V t . ' . ... , .. 'There Is .11. hi en..e.n., ......,... i miscalculated the stiength of his foes. I "i .1 masa ineuiinK or i mm .
s been successfully 1 ' 1 1 . the year's exports of gold, 90.-1 ',,. . . con-1 been' slid It Is a great pity that the, , Hoops fiom the llrody assault, but was nn-et and Third avenue,
the Mexican crisis lit 000.000. as against $146,000,000 In 1913 'f ' ' ."l " L.i C " ! ...n n,ond. for then he Fou.ht llon.e to Hon.-. exen to heat Von Llnslngen's army lf Fitzgerald, who ha used
AND
U. S. TRADE BALANCE,
IS $2.136.000.000
iii,
Total Foi'plprii Commerce for
Your Kudinjr Juno I'M (5,
9fi.soo.ono.ono.
i
Washiniito.s! July 28. The estimate
of $6, 500,000.000 as the value of Ameri
can foreign trade In the fiscal year which
ended June 30 Inst, recently announced
u.. .... ' . ... ' ... .... i
The year's exports aggregated $4,334,
000,000, exceeding hy more than J 1,500,.
000,000 the total fur 19 IK and by more
than $2,000,000,040 the annual average
from 1011 to 1911 June, alone, gave a
tolal of $ICu.00,0on, loss than the record ,
total of $175,000,000 for Mav, but irac-1
tlcally fCOO.OdO.OOO more thnn In June
hist year.
The year's Imports amounted to $2,-1
I ?."'".oo. exceeatn? iy 5.M,omi,ouu
"ie 1915 tolnl and by $47fi.OOO)ilO the
"'""lal avcrnce from 1DII to 1914. June
Imports totalled f24C.ooo.000, the largest
figure ever shown In a single month. It
wa'' 17.(,.nU1 lnrger than that for
'"' HS.O00Ol)O laigcr than that
Mm- nn.1 ixMinoi tmirer tban that I
rL' . .' . , , , .i,
Tlu' yettr " ,ri,d'' "ulance leacheil the
"""I""""' "' " J2.130.P0O.M0O. being
practUiilly double tlmi for 1915 and
'" VVXSlX
thiil if 1914, which
were jt.iiDi.iiiin.otiu ntn
renectlvelv, June contributed $219,
(inO.OOti to the favorable trade balance of j
uiu jv,ir, wnirn ritiiiiiniei- ..nn ,1
ance of $111,000,000 In June, 1915. and
less than Jjnn.OOO tmlance of trade ,
against the I'nlted States in June. l'.'I !
ur tne years imports e- per mu. m-
.a.a.i . nf .1,..., .u,ne,..n nlth nn-'
. . . n . ... ioir ef il..
proximately 02 per cent. In 191.1. of tne
June Imimrtji 62.0 per cent, were free of
iviru ii.v in uut,,, i-....
uuiy, as iiKiuii-i i.. ..r
, , ,. ,.,.,'
The et Inward gold movement
ntii.ntnieil lii il l l .iiliil.oiiil ior .nine nun
u fnr beear ended with
June. The preceding tlw.,1 ye.tr showed
"v-.v- - - . .
....nil. fne iIia tierlod frnm August tit
December. 1915. averaged less thnn $13.-
OOO.noo a month for the period from
I,..'....... i inv mtc. tun in .Innn rose
to $12.1.000,000. June exports or goiu
exceeded $$.000,000. or about $.1,000,000 j
I cr than the monthly average since I
Hecember, 1913.
TWO SHARKS AT AQUARIUM.
Mn nil lllne and HIk White Fellow
of 'sin ii nitlnar Kind.
Two sharks, a all in blue one with a r
emit raeied smile that see
lined mcapanic
of taking In muili more than a human
I'.ainl and the other a broad bellied
ine ouier n ..i......
xvhlte one with n width or grin tnat
enulil neeonimoilato nn abnormally large
: . . . .. ... :.. ....
head, were sliown )esieroay on ine i..,.
of the wall Inclo-lng one of the big
pools at the Aquarium,
, a net cold import or s.m. hiiu.uo'.. . . . -,,,-. T.,., ,,, ,n..fher the War Seere- east from a point Just out do Th envai . ") """l"."" .i , .. ,i..ii . .,.
nnv ,it il. Is.n.s 1 mu .i,..,...., ., ,.nt cnM eMinrt of 14,ri.- " " . ."' . ":. . . . .: " ' t r .i.. iii . nolnt about due xveiit of l.utsk. He had """ -i"'-- " .i..i.-."u i.n u.u
..mounted to $l9t.000.000 'compared with ' ' '"' " . ' " "'Jf"" "i i ... ' ' "."'e nex ask of II e mn,Vn. i,r " Sakharoff was able, not only to repulse ! employer which lie has called
this middle ground fl72.00n.ooo In 1913 and $6. .000.000 In , , ', ,, '.' . , I V;. (l ,h tn.t word has not I straighten. I '"l" counter attack xvlthout xvlthdr ixvlng .venlns In the Lyceum at Elwlvty
nete ror tne time ami i , in i". trUh i.rtlanient woud hax-e been an i ... ..in... ..... t. ".' """.:'".'. "'.""'"'.'. t"""J" etllclent met ho s than any mil
... .. I . ......... ... .A.. m.lCIUII.,11. I, It,.'. n- v.'m.,..,. IVI.I.. " '" .-.-- - - . l,ot. In .n.l,1l.l.. ,l .Aa.. un.,.1. "
iinstiones Ii until (told imports averaged jsx.ooo.ouo a ..i.., ... n.......).. ... i r V""" ."""''r I taneously attaining ills oojecive nil ... ... ., ,
ine oiue snari. .....Km .... . -mpr, vxlth a valor almost Indescrlb
w.sterly edge of tho c.ulf Stream and . h . , , ,,,
the stalwart wnne iciiow on ine .
nt .Maryianu. ine) cn- euiiuunu.-.. i
Ice nnd tneir jnxvs were Kept open uy
cakes of the same. Curator Mowbray
snld both were of tho man biting kind,
More than the usual number of visi
tors were attracted to the fish show by
the shark exhibition and It Is believed tho
crown win ne mucn nigger to-iiay, tvneu
the news will have spread by publica
tion. MAD CAT ATTACKS WOMEN.
Three llullets From Policeman's
Pistol .Needed to Kill It.
Mrs. Matilda Sachs's pel cat xxent mad '
last night nnd leaped on her and her
"'vear-old daughter Hilda In their ,
n n.irt men t at 2.10 Sherman avenue. It 1
n ticked Patrolman lleutsch. too. Three 1
i.niieia ivei-.- needed to kill It I
When the cat pounced on the two
women, first biting Mrs. Sachs's neck
and then her daughter's arm, the
women locked themselves In the kitchen
and screamed for help. Patrolman
Deutsch climbed tne flro escapo and ns
ho put his head through tho window the
cat jumped at him. Deutsch llred, the
cat came on, so Deutsch kicked It. With
the third bullet he hiued It.
Dr. Gordon bandaged painful xvounds
for mother and daughter. The apart
ment xvas almost wrecked.
SHIRT SLEEVE DINING URGED.
Clilcnuo Cormier Appeals tu Keep
era of Itestaiirmif a.
CllM'AC.o, July 2, Peter M. Hoffman,
Coroner of Cook county, sent a letter to
otel and restuurnnt kernel's to-day,
... .., n..t lti fiv,.ltu I'litns ..hl..li airiii'dnl
men 'from nppearliu; In dining r,limis
without I .elr coats,
Th Coroner pointed out that the!
docket of his office Is "overloaded w'th
dinth- due to heat prostrations,'1 nnd
that women nrc permitted to wear low
r.rched thin xvnlcta In nil restaurant
and dining looms.
'Why not allow men the Mime privi
lege'," asked the Coroner. "II -ay mean
not only comfort, but nlso the giving, of
life."
DECISION BY MOOSE AUG. 3.
Conference of Progressive Leaders
Called at Iiiillnnapnlla.
Nkw Oiii.kans, July 2S. John M,
Parker, Vice -Presidential nominee of the
ProgicFslxo p.uty, announced to-day
that a conference of tho party leaders
had been called to meet In Indliiunp'ilU
August 3 to decide xxh.tt courso It wus
advisable for members of the parly lo
follow.
Because of this action, Mr. Parket
said, the Progtcmlve national conven
tion, which he proposed should be held
III Chicago on August .", will be aban
doned nt least for thai date and place,
Mcptcmlirr 0 May End Congress.
Wabihniiton, July 2, September 9
Is the data now being considered by
Administration leaders for adjournment
of Congress. All hope of gelling
through by August 19, the dale fixed
by the Democratic Senate caucus, has
been abandoned,
NEW YORK PRESS
take home rule now, WARNsmm WIN FIGHT
LL0YD george;
.
War Secretary, in Remarkable Interview, Defends Jus
tice of Provisions, Pleads for Nation's
Unity Still Has Hope.
Ionho.v, July IS.--"I don't despair
about nn eventual olutlou of the Irish
problem. In spite of the recent failure to
nach an ugrccmenl between the Nation-
ullts and tlio Cnlnnlsts. an m D.ivni
Lloyd George to-ilny.
Jle was replying to n reipitt for his
views on tun breakdown of the negotia
tions for putting the lilsh home lulu act
Into effect Immediately,
"Sn achieved at least one thing that
had nevet hit luito been nccoinplleheil,"
the Hrltlsh War Secrelaiy coutliiued,
"We brought the repicsciiliitixrs of the
riai, Nationalists und the I'lster Fnloti-'
Irish .Nationalists und the I'lster t'nloti-
Ists to the point of slinking 'hands In-
st'ad of shaking lists at each other.' !
'
I'rnrtlcally WarnliiK
Mr I.loyd (teorge, acting as the rioeu
arbitrator In the century old Irish con
1 1 overs)', had succeeded In t-o far tnolll
Olnn tlio opjioslng factions that he had
biought them within measurable dlMatiee
of reaching nn agreement. Then. l.lo)d
uvuinr e.iiu in n iimi' 111 irKin iir-uiij , (
fate liiterxened, as It liad so often done ,
before In lilsli affalis, and at the Inst
moment a breach occurred. I
Sir. l.lo)U l.coige pramcaliy serveit
nonce no ine men pari) inni n me .
J home rule plan u lion proposed Is mil
accepted the entile scheme mny
inniiign.
"When the war Is oxer," he snld, "new
conditions will have allien How con
uny man guaiautee what the sentiment
- (nls country may be on tne question
of home rule for Ireland'.'
1
, r(.,,. (f) n nu--tn whether the
,- t lonIlu , t ., j..ted In refusing
th, pmpoi-ed sottlement. I.loyu (leorge ,
'"
..N,vcr has a better offer been made,
u .... ., i. . .1 nn...
i.1"' '"a"
iiiiiv new rtiiiiiiiittitiii iiii'i itr.i nun iiiiu
, , .,.,, , ,
"It !s true, he cotnnlued, "that the
home rule act Is on the statute tmok,
but only with the Pledge that before It
Becomes operative an nmenuins inn is
to be passed dealing with the exclusion
of PIstrr."
The Secretary said the mnln principles
of the settlement remain, nnmelv, tho
Immediate creation of an Irish Parlia
ment, exclusion for tlio present of the
nal-f of Ireland which ,n onw'Ullnr to
participate In tho home rulo measure
and consideration of the whole nuestlon
1,,,-,r1 rnnferenre nt th cI.ik.
.
1 have always lieen an anient home
. . . tenlltlc-.it career and still
. ,., . . .... -,....., .
.,, . ' ,',...'. ,'
in in.v iipininn u niiiion xmih-ii enn ;iiui .
()fi(ii -.,,u llt,h ,,idier ns the Irish
. .,. who are noxv nchtlnc by tho s'de I
pf ,,,,. f.,ow jlrltons from all over the I
, inmi.,(, of ra ntlll muM
rlf Itself
F.iplalna tlir Issues.
Answering a question as to how the !
breach In the negotiations came about, ,
tho War Secretary said :
'There were two points on xvhlch
there was disagreement at the end of
the negotiations. One detlt with the
means by which the exclusion of the
six Plater counties was to continue or
to be brought to an end. This, to my
vlext, although I believe Mr. Itedmond
differs on that point, was less a matter
of substance than of words.
'The Nationalists agreed It xv.ih lm
possible that the Ulster counties should
be coerced Into nn Irish Parllamen It
was understood that when they were
xvllllng to come In no one xx-oubl seek
to keep them out. Their exclusion fur
the present would not Imvo affected In
BORDER TRIP MADE
A PICNIC DE LUXE
Mrs. Spth Barton French In
vpnts Shook Absorber for
Cnmp Life Hardships.
This story Is Intended for consumption
along the Mexican border. It should be
read hy exery rookie who rode out to the
xv ft In live days (or xvns It fixe xweks")
In the da.- loaches that carried Geor's
1 nrmy up In Valley Morge.
Tim discomforts of that Journey weie
nnnecetsaty quite. If the Govern-
men knew lis buslnesH they uiMlil haxe
been avoided. Mrs. Selh Ilarton French,
lied Cross lender, who saw all the haul
slilpa she wanted In Serbia, Is going t i
d monstrate how comfortably the trip to
the 'border may be made.
All that Is required Is a six or linnet
tnan necessary cyHinlcr automobile, an
up to dato pneumatic tired, ball hcathm
Pallor and the run of a sporting goods
htore for n day or so. Mrs, Fiench's
modest menage will Include rocking
chairs, Ice coolers, -water filter, bedr,
tents, Ac.
Mrs. French and maybe a maid or two
will rliln In the lnenir.nt lee. hphlti.t the
. . ......... . avi.iniipiie.urvi ion. niugni ior separately, ii wne macmne iirn.u- niuiiwr rcen in tin so pana in
engineer. The rest or the mum will crim nni Api.ai met lo-nay to near
occupy Hie tender. A pleasant time ls'" poslble appllent on In behalf of Sir
anticipated by nil. When exelilng comes1 "R'' Casement, who wan sentenced in
the spoiling goods department will de- '" t,r'Hnn ", eonnectlnn with
tach tself and tents, co ans II. fuinl -
tine, a phoiiogiaph, vc will make the
horrors of war less Imrilble,
Alri', l-'rench. xvho Is staying at the
Vaiulerbllt, was seized with the Idea of
going Soldiering 'when illnusslii(; bonier
iiindll'lons with Mrs. J. Horde nljaill
niai' at Newport iccentlsv She obtained
permlsMlrv, finin Secrffnry of War linker
In Inspect the National Guard camps, llie
Secrelaiy adding that he would like to
hax'e her rrport lo him on conditions n
she finds them.
TIIKOI'till HISKVIf'K TO FI.OKIIM,
AtlanlH, lllriulnghsin, etc., vln Seslmard Air
l.lns Its'.', hiiinlanniely equipped all-atee I
trains Inu, UK Broadway or I'.nna. oftlcen,
ff.
-last chanll'
III.- sIlKhltst degree the full powers I
.. . ... i... v...i ii. t..i.....i i
S-u ii' ill. ..ill i.,iii. lint idii u. iivinnu
under the home rule net. The question
if fii. Ie .j.lt,.- It. .'Mlmtl'ielU' nff.ti.
ward could hae been decided when It Ksp of (Jen. Sir Douglas llalg'a forces,
had been seen how home Mile whs work-1 It was announced officially to-nlglit. Do
h'K " 1 fended Hlnrost literally to the last man
llefenda l.nlaiilsta' IM.
"The second point was connected with
Irish lepreseiit'itlon at Westminster Il
Is not unnatural that the I'nlotilMs run
It mint that ltclnnd Is prnpoi (Innately
ovei represented In tlio House of Pom
nions, and that It would not hiixe been
fair, either to the portion of lie, mil
remaining outside of thu home rule
i Ileum or to the other parts of the
Mrltlsli Isles, to have retained such a
full representstlon of Irl-li constltuen-
ties In the l.'ommons after the larger
part of Ireland had a Parliament of Its
own 'o settle Its own domestic affairs,
!toweer, the scheme of settlement pro
posed at u led ;n so many words that
when Irish affairs wele to be discussed
In the London Parliament the full Irish
renii seiil.il.on should be called to par
(clKIIC, as oeioitf llie rxirieili e 111 int
Ir.sh Piirllnmeiit "
Nnoglil Knmlatneniallr Uaijaat.
Kc.rull,i,K , the ipieatlon whether he
,,,....,,, , . tviui hv Ills Nil. .
t ,Jiall Kt H for xw rejection of the plun
of settUmnnt were suttlclent I.loyd
tieorn. siinl .
"In i nit 1.1 ii r alterations from tho orlg-
lnal draft of the scheme of settlement It ;
......... i.. I.I.I .1.-. .1,. f!-...r..,.n l,s i
,.,. u.-n... ... . - .
none aiiyiinng iunoiinieniii)- uhju.i
i Ireland n must ue rtiiiriiiin-i ,um. ,
ireiaini nine, .ii.-.n.,. . . .
the 1'nl nlst lenders, who had fought for
a lifetime against home rule, had for
the first time In history accepted
tule for live-sixths of Irelnnd,"
Throughout the Interview Mr.
. .. r.,.. ...... - .u- .n..i....
K'?' rV. " V Z' f"1.".".'
ur iiitiprni'NS. .tsftru wiifiiiri an iin-
.,,1,1 h. ... , iin. in.
WonU Have. Won l.ona Flh."
The Irish people xvould have .ib
talnea what tney navo struggieu mw
suffered for during so many arenera
tlorvs. An actual home rule Parliament
xvould be In being for flvc-slxths of Ire
land, and onc that were established
nothing In the world could have, de
stroyed It.
"ARulu. If a home rule Parliament
worked xvell, ns I feel certnln It would,
the aonrehenslons of Ulster would be re-
s.a.n come In or their own freo will, for
... , nrn ,,,,, ,,,. ...i.h to
Help ircianu worn out ner nihil nmuij.
"Now. however, unless some settlement
. ,,ui,kiv effected, who can tell what
. v. - u'i,. n,. -.ie Is
nmi n,.,,,..i, ....... ,....... .
oxer new conditions will have arised,
How can any man guarantee what the
sentiment of this country may be at the
end of the xx-ar on the nuestlon of homo , ""J , den. xon I.lnslngen, In a recent Inter-1 centered now on the Third Avenue and
rule for Ireland, or on any other ques- '"'' "erce uslst.ince of the Hermans I viexv, expressed hl Ironic thanks to the he was paying little heed to other tran
tlon? Bt,1''0,m:u,'.V, ''"""i"1 No."' and Del- , j.u.,s f,,r leaving him an excellent sit lines In the city 1' was learned.
, xille Wood Is attributed by French mil,- r.illrn-nl cast and xvest through llrodv. however, that the II. It T the elevated
Very Broad Measore."
unni. nrnm inniv mr inn lie. I. l
think tho Nationalist leaders xvould have
been well advised to have tnken the offer
'made to them, even wltn tne alteration
which tho Pnlonlst half of the Cabinet
demanded. Nothing In this altered the
fundamental fnrt that all parties In the soon If the llrltlvh are to carrv out their Husian advances in souinern oinynin,
nation, for the first time In history, were ndvance methodically and steadily Tils 1,ut lns!ts strong counter attacks are
offering home rule to nationalist Ireland. ! plateau Is xery t:i portant, iilnce 'it com- under xvay, thus contradicting the flus
"In wns, Indeed, a very bread measure mands the Ancre Valley, through xvhlch sl.ui assertion that their enemies are In
of home rule, nnd. In my opinion, would ' runs the Amlens-Arras railroad The tllnht. Herlln makes no mention of the
cirtalnly have eventually led to all the plateau Is strongly held by the Germans, 'wo generals, the ?.nri0 men and forty
counties, even those of Ulster, which haxe ' ho hitherto luxe resisted successfully six guns the Russian say they cap
In en most obstinately opposed to nny , all attempts to dislodge them. Itured.
srel, Idea, coming Into the scheme after
, they had seen that the rest of Ireland
i xvns really able to govern Itself xvell.
e should then have seen what so many
I have made sacrifices for
real united
i Ireland.'
KING OF DENMARK
HAS NARROW ESCAPE
Thrown Into Sea When Yaelit
Cnpxtzcs, but Swims to
Overturned Crnft.
i
I.onmiv, July 2s, King Chris inn of
I'eunnuk, had a narrow escape from
drowning tl,l afternoon, through the
cap-Izlng of a boat whl.h he was all -
Dig pear xnr.ius, e,
patch from Copenhagen.
lleuter des-
I 'llie K In wilt nut .tlnne Iii a small
sail boat nnd while sailing It a sudden
I puff of wind capsized tho craft, xvhlch
nit noil bottom upward, throwing the
1 Ku.g Into the water.
The King Immediately swam to the
overturned craft, and, pulling lilm-elf
Him, II, -at astride lite iteel, wnere ins
tilluht was iihserved from the shore.
' llri.its liiiiiii'.llnti.tt hastened til the
!.
esshtanie and rescued hlin, none
the worse for his Immersion,
CASEMENT LOSES AGAIN.
Defence Abandons Contemplated
Action Ilefore Aiiprnl Court,
In.vpns, July 28.- When the Court
. ""' event, i.i-n ....... ..-..,...,..
Hint the defence had abandoned any
ron'e-miilated ncllon
Cun'inent Is to he hanged nn Augusts.
Wilson HeeUlnur l'leuienc.
W.XSIIINilTO.S', July 2. --Piesldent Wll
urn Is haid to he worklmt quietly through
diplomatic channels to obtain clemency
for linger Casement. Chairman Sloneef
the Foreign Iti-billons committee told
Senator Marline that effmts xvere being
put forward by the President In the only
vny In xvhlch they could possibly be ef
fictlve to obtain clemency. Ambassador
Page Is at work In an unofficial nay,
nnd the President la not without hope of
success.
M delyille YfOOD
Germans Defend Position to
Lust, Mnn in "Most Terrific
Battle of War."
fsiNpo.v. July 2S.-
Delvllle Wood and
ire llnuly In the
l.ouguevHl at last
by the Hermans, tho two positions have
been a menace to tho Hr ! t ll advance
and their capture Is a source of great
gratification,
IHIville Wood, of which the trees
are nothing but Jagged stumps bristling
above shell ploughed ground and almost
impenetrable tangles of splinters which
once wete rtunks und branches, has
been desirlbcd aa the nn helll.h
scene" or th war. It Is filled with
the dead of both armies. The Drltl-h.
bv haid fighting yesteidnv and last
night, took all but an acie.
., ....
To-day, they completed the task by
killiiijt or expelling the Inst of the Klftll
llr.indenberg division which was de
fending It The wood Is on high ground,
ninl therefore extremely valuable as a
strategic joint.
I sed ; tlombs.
lieMlle Wood nnd the village of
I.oiiKUeval w. le first take,, by the Hi lt
s , force .III V 1 Ti Stloliir Herman
counter attacks. In which they used a
new- snen wnicii u in not explode lmt
emitted asphyxiating gas, forci d (Jen.
Halg to yield some ground In the vll-
Inge and to abandon the wood entirely
Itesnmll,.- th nfTel.slve .her- I.e.
-,"
r. ... ..v..n.-
7-. - , ....-,..-.
riuc iteming or tne w-:ir.
Th. Ii-i,nri.nr. ,.f ,-,L- .h
A home ' was that by so doing the Hrltlsh estab- "0BPed on the HussUn side of he fion
llshed their right wing firmly on a llne,111' "j" '''ir..fT had another lm
. Lloyd even with the French left wing, which ' I""-"'"' ''J"," l nexpectedly
st trace ' had outstripped the llrltl-h In Its ad- he etll,;1 ds line to the mutt, and
v fff X"
. val, the llrltlsh line runs almost due!
. - i-.i.m irt i."ui,ui''
gun street warfare until the narrow
thoroughfares xvere a shambles.
Rlsewhero on the front, activity seems
to have been confined to the artillery
preparation for the Infantry- advance
xvhlch will strnlgthen the curve. There
were two exceptions; The 'War Otllce
announcis that hand t. hand fighting
continued throughout the day near Po-
rlcres. The official statement. Issued In
Herlln. says that strong llrltlsh nt-
tacks against the (lerniau positions In
Foureaux Wood were tiroken down by
the tierce (lerman tire '
Despatches from Paris state that the
Germans are hastening reenforeements
to replace their loses on the Somme.
I " """ . r.icK regimenis nave neeu
torn to tuts i,y the llrltlsh attack. These
reenforeements nrc withdrawn largely
,..,t L . .. .
1 ' '" '"'ikiuih. wnere some or tne ner-
"ian garrisons have be,, abandoned com-
P'ck i.x in xicw or tne new anil greater
!,,,?,. , lct lm,t 1,t"c''0 , ar0!
the last
I ..J,',". """" """r
iri.'ir nrnuerv ,.,.,i ,iijt,ih,- ... n
natural toxer Tne country eastward
and northeastward Is Hat and It will be
commanded by the Hrltlsh nitlllcri on
the heights,
i The Thlenval nlateau mum h i.t.n
i ne village or Talepval. on the south-
em edge of the plateau, Is reported to
be fortified exceptionally well. Tile
llilllsh capture of Pozlercs 1 Important
principally 'for the reason that It bet.
teis the llrltlsh prospects of taking this
high ground.
ZEPPELINS RAID
ENGLISH COAST
Hoinbs Dropped in Yorkshire
nnd Lincolnshire, but
Dfinniire Not Stnted.
I.oNiKxs-, July 2'i (Siitiird.1) I Her-
man airships tabled the east ,o.iNt nf
England eai It this (S.ituidav) morning, ' lvtr"!l''"1
, accordlnll to an olllclul statement JiistVJin.nsT'nl'.i
,m,ed,
mimner or rniuere," ,)
"llie number of raiders," sa.xs the
I Malement, "das not bene established,
The reports as to the raiders crossing
... , . ,. .. . ,, , ,,
, "'" c"m" from Yorkshire and Lin-
1 '"liiHlilie, llombs xvere dropped, but de-
i ,,ii's are lurking."
WILSONS ON WEEK'S CRUISE.
I'realdenl W ill Work on Npereh of
Aci'ppln nee.
Wasiiinotov, July 28. President nnd
Mrs. Wilson left Washington )H,, this
nllerniion for a week end cruise on tlio
naval yacht Mayflower down Chesapeake
Hay.
A stcnoginjiher xvas taken along, nnd
II was said the President expected to do
j some work during the trip on 1,1 speech
accepting tne Democratic nomination,
lie will probably not return until Mnn
day morning,
BOMB BLASTS WAR RAILWAY.
Explosion Is Port) lilies Prom
lliiluiirlnii Capital,
ATlii'NS, July 21, --The Sitla-Kiis.
leudll Hallway line has been broken by
the explosion of a bomb, according to
reports received here.
Kostcndll, lliilgarla, 1 forty miles
southwest of Sofia, the Bulgarian rap!
ta!. . ik .
RUSSIANS CAPTURE
BRODY; FOE IN FLIGHT
Teuton Lines Smashed West
of Lutsk: Atistro-Oermaiis
Hotly Pursued.
CZAI? flATNS ON BO MILES
9,000 Prisoners Taken, With
.Many Guns Llnsinpren
nterly Hontetl.
I.ONPoV, July 2S. lltody has been
captuied by the nusslans, Pelrograd an
nouueed officially to-night. West of
l.utsk the Austro-German lines have been
In o lien and the Teutons are In flight to
ward the south, closely pursued by their
eneclee. They have lost 9,000 prisoners
and a large number of guns.
On a front of utmost fifty miles the
Russians thus have scored enormous suc
cesses, and hae overcome one of tho
..-. -i m i.e-.. i""'"
ward l,embcrg, the capital of flallcln. It
l reKnrded as Inevitable that the Aus-
tro-derman armies now wll be obliged
to letlie rapidly to the westwaid, since
iiiev nil' ill mil hit ill ueinir eiiv niii.'ii.
(len, von I.lnslngen s army apparently
Is b.ully cut up The Itusslan pressure
has been so haid and applied so swiftly
Unit It seems Von I.lnslngen was unable
to get away with his stores. Klres nnd
explosions In lliody to-night Indicate
(that he was forced to destroy them
rather than have the enemy profit by
I their possession
III It led District.
1 It Is difficult to overestimate the value
I of the capture of llrody. It Is the most
Important station between I.emherg and
I imbnn on an excellent railroad, It Is
! the kev to a vast field of oil wells and
""'".! 11.11 in leau 1111.1 cupper
mines.
. i i, ... ,i..,.,i
K-.-h-rnfr -ii-.v-.i ne.. ,.in.- ih
"
'adHMil line due iat of llrody He was
s.ruck at the Austrian, north of llrody
... ..... ..
x " msmgen aticmpieu to reuexe
I, Ine of First Drive.
llrody fins played a conspicuous part
In the hlftory of the war from tho be
ginning. The Russians took it In the
courso of their first swift advance, the
drive xvhicli carried them beyond
Pr7cnisl, Then, their supplies of arms
and ammunitions exhausted, they fell
back before the reinforced Auslro-Qer-
man irmles
. They !ot Przeni.xsl June 3. 191.".. nnd
l.emberg June 22 but weie able to
, axe most of their men and their stores
by tranrporting them from lnnlierg
to flrody. lift) -eight miles away, oxer
ine rarrujii. i ney neiu on ior n in -
ndrrable time, but finally with forced
to mm, uate Oallela entirely, llrody. the
. .
Itusslan army lie.uiiiu.irters after tne.
fall of l.emberg, was almost the last I
pi;
arm In h,i ev.'ielln leil. ..titetiilM.r t H 1
Military critics here to-night commented
that (len SikharofT probxbly knew he
xxould be able to ii"'.' the Hue again,
Herlln
Makes Denials,
The otllrlal statement Ifsued by the
Herlln War Office to-night admits the
lletlln tells also or nttacKS ny txvo
Itusslu army eorp on German positions
east of Gnrodische. In the Ilaranovichl
region. The battle I still In progress,
Its issun undecided, says tho communi
cation. Thefall of lliody is a serious threat
to Li'iuberg and the lapld and success
fill adx'nuce of Gen. Sukharoff's forces
menaces the whole Austro-German line
of communication from thn north to the
south.
Kim el nm itrntegte.
For the present Km el yields III Im
portant e to Leuthi'ig. The position on
till portion of the Russian front seems
to be that Hen. Kaledlne. having
driven Gen. von Llnslngen's left wing
behind tho Slnkhnd Itlver, has sus
pended his advance towaids Kovel and
Is holding up the great Teutonic forces
there, while Gen. Sakharoff Is pressing
on toward I.einberg, which Is dffndil Ly
the forces of Gen, Hoehm-Ermolll.
correspondents attrlhute
oxer the Austro-Germans
almost entirely to the overxx helming hu-
perlorlty of the Hiisslan artillery and
Itussla's apparently endless supplies of
ammunition,
GKRMAS'S NOT HUNGRY.
Correspondent at Front Kara
Troops Are sntlslted.
With th i: Gkiiu.x.v Aismv us hik
Illilx Fiiont, July 23, b courier to Her
lln, via Loudon, July J1. The ltusan
efforts lo break the German line at
various points on this front, which a
newspaper correspondent hns hud nn
unusually fnvoiable opportunity of In
specting personally In tho last few days,
have neither affected the front nor
what Is perhnps equally Important the
morale of the German troops.
Th" correspondent has viewed the
great sectois of the front from south of
Kekknil to a point xvell south of Fried
rlchst.idt, has stood In the trenches amid
the devaitntlon nf drumfire of but a
fexv liours befoie and has talked freely
xxill, the men engaged
The commander and all other officers
b rl the barracks and the soldier an
sivtritl exery question put tu them xvlth
the utmost fiankness,
All the men declared the) knew noth
ing of the existence of any antl-Amerl-can
feeling
One soldier summed up their attitude
thu' "Some American ammunition Is
being used heie, but that Is a political
question, and we do not know much
about politics. We don't hate anybody,
We don't hate the Russians. It Is war
Confliiiirrf on Tlfrrf Toffs.
THIRD AVE. MEN
y QTE TO-NIGHT
ON BIG STRIKE
Fitzgerald, Leader, Sure All
of Whitridgo's Men
.Will Go Out.
WOHiaNG TX SECRET
ON OTHER LINES
Police .Mobilized in Sta
tions, Extra Men Sent
to Bronx.
GUXM EX EMPLOYED
AS STRIKE BREAKERS
Half Service on Some Lines,
lmt Company Gets
Few Fares.
A strike atnoni: the 2.200 conductors
and niotormeu of tho Third Avenue
Street llallxvay seemed Imminent tnat
nlRht. To uet those men out wan the
next movo of William Jl. Fitzgerald,
the labor lender who already has suc
ceeded In gottlnn out tie car men on
the Ynnkcrs, Mount Vernon, New
Kochelle und The Hrons htrret rail
ways, all BuVsldlnrlcs of tho Third Avc
nno system.
Fitzgerald xvns confident lust nlftht
he xvould have tho men out by Monday
(piestlon
Avenue
for tliLu
sixth
nioro
Hike, or-
a loni;
time, succeeds in his move ho will havo
tied up completely the syntem of which
Frederick V. Whltrldge Is tho head.
He undoubtedly will impose a, (Treat
expenso on tho Third Avenue, xvhlch
already Is paying $20,000 a day for tho
strlko In The llronx.
"We are going to win." said Fitz
gerald, xvho has little to say "We nrn
going to organize the Third Ave
nue men because they xvant us Tho
sentiment of the men Is with us and all
they need Is the promle of our nctlxn
support. We hnxix the help, not only of
. other railway
unliis thioughout tho
( country', hut also of tho Central Fed-
ntral
city
, s. . ..- , ,,
meeting to-morrow nixnt win tell the
1 story
flulel Work nn Oilier I. tries.
I
Mr Fitzgerald said that his mind wns
and the subway employees are being ap
proached. So thorough and so detailed
Is the campaign of Fitzgerald that the
propaganda xxork is going on under Its
own momentum.
There xtns a notu cable lack of strikers
In the llionx )esteiil.iy They xxero not
Idle, hotvever Fitzgerald caused hU as
sedates to organize the strikers Into
squads of twenty-live xvlth a lieutenant
for each five. These groups were as
signed to picket duty and to proselytiz
ing in Manhatan and Brooklyn 'I'heie
was a set task fur eveiy man, and re
poits wern made all day to the taptalns,
who transmitted compiled i sports to thu
lalnir leaders
Fitzgerald his a large advisory board,
I'risldint Million of the International As
sociation of htteet Hallway Men; P. J
D'Hrliu, thn fourth vlrc-p'esldeut ; Wil
liam Collins of the American Federation
of Labor, and other strike leaders were
at Fitzgerald's elbow They sifted ths
report.i of Hie xtoikers and aided In
working out plan evolved by Fitzgerald.
Claims Happort of .ill,
"The spit It of every street railway man
111 the city Is xvlth us," said Fitzgerald
last night. He spoke In n voire full of
assurance While Fltzger.iM wna engi
neering tlu plan to Invade Manhattan
and tie up the Third avenue lines he
still was keeping an eye on activities
In Tho Bronx and In Westchester. He
said io ,as pleased xvlth tho day's de
velopments. "And If Mr Whltrlilge." added one of
the leailcis, 'had remained in tills city
Instead of sailing for Euiope we might
have had n better chance to settle this
sttike befoie t reaclud such dimensions.
A the situation stands now there Is
nobody In the Third Axcnuo wlio dares
make a move to negotiate with us xvlth
out first having recelvfd word from Mr.
Whitrldge. However, xxn are In this
fight nnd we expect lo stay In It until
we win,"
There xxas no question about the ris
ing tide of the strike spirit among car
men of the nt' It was avpaieut not
only In Westchester, xxln re not u enr
xx In el has turned since lat Saturday,
and In Tho llionx, where Easi Side yun
inen and other gaug-Mcrs nie iimnnlng
the surface cars, but aleo in .Manhattan
The police, whose lines of Information
reach out In mnny hidden channels,
were recelxlng numerous hints of the
threatened strike In Manhattan und nlso
nf the trouble In Thn llronx between the
strikers and tho strikebreakers.
The situation was regarded as so acute
hv Police Commissioner Wnoda last
night and be was acting on .nfoimatlon
furnished him by Chief Inspeitnr
Schnilttbcrger and his ail' that h
Issued an older lequlr.iig every police
man not on duty in spend tin night In
his respective police station That order
meant that 3,1'ini more policemen wei"
on Instant call In any cmeigeiio A so
orders xxero Issued to tecall snnie of the
policemen nw'iix mi vacation
The Commissioner alo "iit motorcycle,
bicycle and mount' d patrol ne. to The
Bronx to p iti-.il the l ig f ' on
which the tiolhv eais weie ie ig run
He detailed inblitloii.il ilete. i.w and
additional uniformed men to The lb mix
where they would l ! oly should llieio
be any more nttncl, on surf.v e ran
hy strikers, sympathize! or men w in
whom the strlkeis say they nixi! n i
connection, While unlformi t m n nc
i
