bring in your want
ad copy before 6 p.m.
Early Delivery of Sunday Want Ads In
sures Correct Classification
Sicl|moni> STimcs -
all sorts of ads for
all sorts of people
See Times-Dispatch Want Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Value
66th YEAR v
*paobTr ?CLOUDY
PRJCE, TWO CENTS.
CARRANZA OFFER
IS!
ACCEPTED BY 0.S.
' \
Suggestion Is Made That
Powers Be Enlarged Be
yond Limits Proposed.
,agreement to this
CONFIDENTLY EXPECTED
American Members of Joint Body
Will Be Appointed at
Early Date.
TO ASSEMBLE IX THIS COUNTRY
Arrjng Secretary Polk's Note Deliv
ered to Arrpflonrlo After Ap
proval by President.
WASHINGTON. July 2V ?r, onoral
Carranza was Informed to-night in a
note handed to his ambassador here
that the Washington government is
Prepared to submit to a Joint interna
tional commission th<* task of seeking
^ solution of border problems. The
1 Proposal of ihi> facto government
for a commission Is accepted, however,
with the suggestion that the powers of
the commissioners be enlarged beyond
the limits proposed in the Mexican note
of July 12
Agreement to this s>;rgestion is ex
pected. and it was stated officially to
night that the American members
would be appointed ar.d the commis
sion be assembled at some point in the
United States at an early date.
POI.K'S NOTK API*ltO\ i:n
IIV PltKSIIJi: NT \\l> I'AniXKT
Following is the full text of Acting
Secretary Polk's note, delivered to
Klibco Arredotido. M \ a a ambassador
designate, aftei ?? i- ?<! ?ceil approved
to-day by Preside! : Wilson and h.s
CaMnet:
-;r.? I have th honor to acknowl
edge the i ei e 1 j?t ? ?f your t ommunlcatlon
of July 1.t:i in wi-.j.-h yon tran
!? ia :i to atbiret-sed l'> nie by the
St-.ret.ir-. ?{ Fus vigii Relations of your
Bove: r.r < ;t. *>i<i : < quest that you
he c ? "I i jiotiv.'i ? i 'jsnsmil to h:n? the
follow mg ? v; 1; 5
".Mi" Seci+taiy,? 1 have the honor to
ack. owlcd-'t re."el; t of Your Fxcel
le:. - !: .?.??. t: ar.simt ted by l.lo Kli.veo
An .'.iido. yuur government's confi
dent; :1 agent in Washington. Inform
ing in it th ' Y'iU;- Excellency has re
e.I*t n.ft J i.? fr the citizen tir<:
:hlef of th* Constitutionalist arinv.
charged with the executive power of
the union, t<> p.opoie t;..?t ca !i of our
governments name thif i.oniinls.-iunoi s,
who shall hold conferences at some
jda- e t'> he mutually a?r? oi up??n an?l
decide forthwith the question i-lating
to the evacuation of the American
for*es now in Me\ti-?? and i" draw up
and -onclude a pr-.-to- or agioement
regarding the icjiprocal cro.-sinp of
the frontier bv the forces of both coun
tries; also to determine the origin of
'the incursions to date, in order to tlx
the responsibility therefor, arid defl
nltely to settle the dillli ulties now
pending, or those which may arise,
between the twu countries on account
of the same or a similar icason. all
of which shall be subject to the ap
proval of both governments.
St'liti ESTS KM.AIU.EMI-.Vr
OK t'OM.MlSMU.VS POWKHS
"In reply. 1 have the honor to state
that 1 have laid Your K\. ? llencv's note
before the President, and have re
ceived his instructions to inform Your
Excellency that the government of the
United States is disposed to accept the
proposal of the Mexican government in
the same spirit <>t' frank cordiality in
which it i.^ made. This government
believes, and suggests, however, that
the powers of th? proposed commission
should be enlarged, so thai. if. happily,
a solution satisfactory to both govern
ments of the question set forth in Your
Excellency's communication may be
reached, the commission may also con
sider such^other matters, the friendly
arrangement of which would tend to
improve the relations of the two coun
tries, it being understood that such
recommendations as the commission
may make shall not he binding upon
the respective governments until form
ally accepted by them.
"Should this proposal he accepted by
\ Your Excellency's government. 1 have
the honor to state that this government
will proceed immediately to appoint its
commissioners and tlx. after consulta
tion with Your Excellency's govern
ment. the time and place . and other
details of t*e proposed conferences.
-Accept. Mr. Secretary, the assur
ances cf my highest consideration.
"FRANK L. POLK.
,.ctins Secretary of State."
KO'tMKIt V II.I.A (iKMlHAI.
i*t iii.k i.y r.xi'.ri TKn
1.AK10PO, T^KX.. July 2S.?Santiago
. Kan.iei <-z. ?'? former c.overnor of tho
Mexican State of Coahulla. ? and later;
a Villa general, was publicly executed I
on the plaza at Saltillo, Mex., Monday
afternoon, according to news reaching
\ue\o Laredo to-right from an authen
tic source. Ramierez. It was stated, had
left Mexico with the dwindling of
Villa's power, and had returned re
cently to offer his services to Genera!
| Carranza when war between tho United
States and Mexico seemed imminent.
Ten thousand persons, according to
the report, witnessed the execution.
Ramierez met death bravely, refusing
to be blindfolded when stood before the
? firing squad.
Efforts were made by Influential
Mexicans at Saltllhi to save Ramlcrez's
Sife a 3,000-word petition having been
gent, it is directly to General Car
ranza. but the latter declined to inter
vene with the military authorities.
Ramierez was a member of a promts
,n?nt Saltillo family.
ii ' - ? - - -
Directs Plague Fight
MKAi/rir co.mmissiu\i-;i{ i-:.Mi:itso.\,
" Jio In in C|lnrcr ?f Kn'ortn to Chock
Infantile I'nrjilvkIm K|ildruilu
In ,\eu Vork.
TME ML PIEiTlIs
T3 KEEP OUT PIMLKSIS
Health OOicors .Move Little Myra
Hello .Montgomery to Iso
lation Ward.
?VKKillROflilOOlJ IS I.VSPKCTfcD !
Hotiso-to-Housc Visits Heinp ,\i?de
and Instructions Given in Holding1
??wu Number of Flies and Other
, Suspected Disease-Carriers.
Lxtraordinary precautions will be
put in one ration to-day by Chief Health
i/.pi'1 I*" 'y I" ?''er.t t !i<* spread In
('Clm n" 'Pantile paralysis. which
^ ?*!11 f a i a . ? here on Wcdnes
>'? wh?" M.vr.i Doll- Mont
gomery, who was visiting with her
niother at the home of J. So;, ar*. ?
31--' North Thirty-second .Street u ,s I
pronounced a victim of the disease, i
s s tne on,>' case discovered so far j
and physician.- and healt.h officers have I
fi'*r of an epidemic.
The Health department," said Dr |
'V yesterday, "will put a? inspector 1
<->i< )!?? idocks t'liinediately surrounding
^h,s h"" " the special purpose o!
, : ? premises* are in the
? fs.d.t.on The Street
? ?- ? will be requested'
""v :i collection "f garbage
.'torn i s. :.l , k.?
!t !<-? al*o that the Health
?<.,i t, . :nr;it will adopt some plan to
insure :t.e immediate det.- tion of ilj
r,L'-s of ?'?>> kind, however slight,
among children in this immediate I
neighborhood, so that, should this case
have infected any other child before
the nature oi the disease was recog
nized. any new ease will be* noted im
j mediately, and such precautions taken
as will prevent any further spread.
\\ ll.l. MAKE HOI SE-TO-HOl'SE
VISITS l.\ VICIXITY
"The special officer who will make
; the house-to-house inspection will in
struct the people in connection with a
number of matters. Especially will
they be advised as to the means of
holding down insect pests."
The infected child, accompanied by'
her mother, her physician. Dr. William-i
son, and a graduate trained nurse, was i
taken yesterday afternoon to the
I isolation pavilion in the rear of the1
I City Home, where she will receive the
best possible treatment known to medU j
jcal science. Dr. Levy thinks there is |
littl^ doubt of her complete recovery.
Her case is a mild one.
In the meantime, every one in the1
i house at III:' North Thirty-second Stieet
lis kept under a strict quarantine, and;
a policeman is on guard in front of th* i
place. There are two families in the
house, about a dozen individuals in all.)
i Not one of these will be allowed to,
leave the premises. Dr. Levy thinks
they will be kept under surveillance!
for about two weeks. I
j "I have little fear," said the Chief!
j Health Officer, "of any spread of in
fantile paralysis from this case. Mean
while, though, as this is the only case
in the city, and nn epidemic would be
| so serious in its consequences, we ara
: taking; extraordinary precautions.
TKSDUXCV TO JUMP
St ?;?.i:sts siMtio.ii) nv flies
"It has befen noted in epidemics of |
I infantile paralysis elsewhere that the
! disease has a tendency to jump from)
j house to house. This strongly suggests I
tile possibility that some insect may j
| convey the disease from the sick to the
next victim, though Dr. Simon Flexner,
whose word is taken as gospel in con
nection with this disease, does not be
"eve this to tie the case."
In a general discussion of infantile
paralysis. Dr. Levy said:
"Infantile paralysis apparently has
two distihet types, the contagious and
the noncontagious. In every commun
ity of any size not a year passes but
where there are a few cases of this
disease of the noncontagious type.
I he foi m of infantile paralysis
which we dread is. of coio-se. the con
tagious type, the type which Is causing
the present epidemic In New York City
and a smaller number of cases In other
places.
"Our first danger is that children
infected In New York City or other
places where the contagious type exists
may get to Richmond before showing
any symptoms of the illness and de
velop the disease after arriving here.
If we could safeguard ourselves abso
lutely against this, we would have
(Continued on Fifth Page.)
Administrators Ask Council to
Have Crutchfielcl Treat City
Officers With ResDect.
NOW .HELD UP TO RIDICULE
Also Call Attention to Over- !
crowding of Courtroom in Vio
lation of Ordinance.
A1 !ejred discourteous treatment hy
Police Justice <"rutrhfieW, of officials
and employes of ,h.. departments un
der the Administrative Board* control
on numerous occasions when these ap
peared in the foijic rv.Mrt as witnesses
against persons .harmed with violat
ing city ordina,,.^. <:tusr.f, fJlo bo;|r<J
yesterday to adopt the following
mot ion:
"That the Council be requested
through His Honor ,he Mavor to have
the Polio* Justice of the city of Rich
mond. John J. fruti hfield. treat with
J'rnper respect the city officers under
the Jurisdiction of thc Administrative
Board when they appear in his court
for tho transaction of necessary and
important city business."
The motion was offered hv Commis
sioner John Hirsehberg. and was
adopted without debate. Shortlv he
fore this the hoard had adopted two
motions offered hy Commissioner Beck,
the first asking the Mayor to inquire
of Justice Crut? hfleld why the ordi
nance with refere,,,., to overcrowding
'? the Police Court is not enforced!
and asking the Msiyor. Ulrtbor< to
hi/h M' ' aSS,St thc of
this building to prevent the crowding
of this court every morning.
OVKIU HOW DIN,; or rot ut
.">!i:.\AC?; TO IIKALTII '
^ The se.-ond motion provided that.
? f Health Officer Levy be directed to
report to the board 'whether, in his
Pinion, the . rowds that daily congre
foweri . ''"V1 ?-houl'J al- 1
lowed. 1;i view of ,he ,.r<?sent ' |
h:r\- ""<??? ?????? mi
n 4 ,l> Richmond.**
A. cording to two members of the
and Mr'TZ B?ard- Mr Hirschberg !
m . *, recent experiences of
officials and employees of the depart-1
been "! L'! u ! r?llce 'V'urt- have
Insteu of er** unsatisfactory. J
hn:f"-r rcVft,v|M* a? ??>* hands of
vith ii1* " " r?a<lv empathy
?Uh its efforts to secure a respectful
ser\ame of the health and sanitary I
rriinan.es. the hoard asserts, its repre
-ntat.ve, have been in many case?"- !
*on?mvVth "?"*????? approaching i
Kei-ently the onus of the Police
ourt s lack of sympathy, it is charged
r,A, J'"'"" ????.!
? eat. u hose officers and inspectors!
bate acquired a dread of appearing
before Justice < 'rutchfield i? ,he prosed
'?n ?"e"ders, because of his
fnsteaTof1 r hf,1'J lh'm UP l? rldlcule.
na or vi ?- >0,!|r,p promptly of ordi
nance \ iolation cases and imposing the i
by ,aw-in
incubating h proper respect for the1
regulations. Justice Crutchfield has re
peatedly postponed cases?a practice '
which. u is charged, i.s militating '
against the proper observance of the i
sanitation 'M heal<* -d !
lkvv iikpohts ro.vi)
.VIMIt < HlTn.|?.;U),s HOUSE1
board adopted the Hirschberg '
motion following an unpleasant expe-U I
enee between Justice Crutchfield and I
or which were not made public Th?
Health Officer had complained of a pool
of standing water in front of jUR?ce
(, rutchiieki's residence, and had filed a
copy of his complaint with the Justice
himself. The latter called Dr. Lew
Into his office yesterday, and the two
discussed the matter at some length.
When I>r. Levy returned to the Ad
ministrative Board after the interview
?le was in a high state of excitement
Justice i"rutchfield's remarks with re
Paid to the complaint against him
could not b( learned, but they were of
such a character as to cause Or. Lew
acute personal distress. Neither nr
Levy nor Justice Crutchfield would dis
cuss the matter last night.
The board's adoption of the Hirsch
herK resolution recalled ,he adoption'
six or seven years ago by the Board'
of Police Commissioners of a resolution '
requesting Justice Crutchfield to aban-1
don his practice of holding police of
ficers up to ridicule, since it had a ten
dency to discredit the Police Depart
ment and its efforts in the eyes of the
criminal elements represented in the
courtroom. The resolution was offered
by former Police Commissioner w
Douglas Cordon, and was unanimously
adopted by the Police Board.
HOLDS ( ITV'S Wn.NKSSIOS
TO HIDICl'MJ IlKKOUIC CltOU'I)
Precisely ihn sahie complaint Is now
made by the Administrative Board.
During the hearing of cases in which
citizens are charged with infractions of
the health and sanitary codes, the
court, it is charged, frequentlv ad
dresses remarks to the city's witnesses
which hold them up to ridicule before
the spectators. So acute has this con
dltion become that Health Department
inspectors have come to look upon
their appearance in thc Police Court
as an ordeal to be dreaded.
The motions offered by Mr. Beck are
directed towards reducing the crowd
Ing, which Is an objectionable feature
of the daily sessions of the Police
Court. The courtroom Is located In the
basement of the City Hall, several feet
bolow the sidewalk line, and the Indis
criminate packing of spectators, white
and black, Into the small basement
room frequently produces a stifling
congestion.
British Commander
_ ^<OTi> QV
OKL-?JkJ.y f
?i& '"" ;~r
Sill I)(ll (.'LAS HAM;
CIPT1 DF BRITISH SHIP
EXECUTED B? GERMANS
Death Sentence, Passed liecausc of
Alleged .Action in Attempting to
Hani Kaiser's Submarine.
TKIKl) UKFORK COURT-MARTIAL
Shooting Generally Compared With
Cavell Case, and Painful Impres
sion Is Caused at English Foreign
Oflice?U. S. Keenly Interested.
BBKLIN*. July iS ?by wireless').?Cap
tain Charles Fryatt. of the Great
Eastern Railway steamship Brussels,
which vessel was captured by Oerman
destroyers last month anrl tal;*?n into
Zeebrugge, has been executed by
shooting, after trial before a Herman
naval court-martial. The death sen
tence was passed upon Captain Fryatt
because of his alleged action in at
tempting previously to rani h. German
submarine.
Testimony was presented at the
court-martial to show that while Cap. I
tain Fryatt did not belong to the
armed forces he had attempted on i
March 2S. 1515, to ram the German I
submarine near the Maas Light- '
ship.
Captain Fryatt and the first ofllccr!
and the tir.-:t engineer of the Rrussel*1
reioiv d from the llrit-.^h Ad.siiiultvj
gold watches for "brav^ tor.duet," ana j
were mentioned 111 the House of Com- '
1110 ns.
The submarine L"-33, according to
the official account of the trial, han
signaled to the British steamer to j
show her flag and to stop, but C.iptairj
Fryatt did not heed, and it is alleged
turned at high speed toward the sub j
marine, which escaped only by diving
immediately several yards below th<?!
surface.
Captain Fryatt, the official statement
says, admitted that he had followed
the instructions of the British Ad
miralty. Sentence was confirmed and
the captain was executed and shot for
a "franc tireur crime against armed
German sea forces."
The trial was held at Bruges, Bel- j
gium. yesterday.
When captured by German torpedo
boats on June 21 Captain Fryatt was
piloting the steamship Brussels, from
Rotterdam to Tilbury. Several Ger
man warships dashed out of the naval
base at Zeebrugge. and escorted the
Brussels back to the Belgian harbor. |
On board the Brussels was an unusual- I
ly large number of Belgian women |
and children refugees, and she carried j
an all-British crew of forty-four men I
Butch newspapers said it was gen- j
erally believed that the capture of the
Brussels was brought about l>y a pas- I
senger who said he was an American, j
but who was-believed to be a German, j
This man remained on deck throughout ?
the voyage, and was said to have made j
signals with lights, with the result that |
the German warships steamed up and >
halted the vessel.
CAl'SRS I'AIXFII, I >1 I'll I0SS11) X
AT nillTISK KOItKI<;.\ OFFM K
I.ON 1 x >X, July 28.?News of the execu
tion of Captain Fryatt, of the British
steamer Brussels, caused a painful im
pression at the British Foreign of
lice. Under the instructions of Vis
count Grey, the Foreign Secretary, a
note was dispatched immediately to the
American ambassador at Berlin, to pro
cure complete details of the affair.
The first intimation of the trial of
Captain Fryatt was called to the at
tention of the Foreign Oflice by press
reports on July 18, to the effect that
he was to he tried as the result of
finding on him a watch containing an
inscription reciting his efforts to ram
a German submarine.
From inquiries made of the owners of
the steamship Wrexham, which Captain
Fryatt commanded when the alleged in
cident took place, the Foreign Oflice
learned the captain had with him neither
a watch nor a letter to the effect that
he had attempted to ram a submarine
^Continued on Second Page.) ~'*
'' .. \?/. ^ ? ? . . -v.
COLLIER SIGHTED
WARSHIP IN CAPES
Commander of the Neptune Cor
roborates Statement of Of
ficers of the Louisiana.
REPORTS TO WASHINGTON
I
Later Saw Craft Moving Outward
to Sea?Incident Not to Be
Subject of Inquiry.
NORFOLK. VA. Julv 2S ? Lieu
tcnanl-rnmmandpr Shane, of the United
States rollier Neptune, has forwarded
an official report to Washington corrob
orating the statement of officers of the
United States warship Louisiana that
an unidentified warship was within the
j Virginia rapes last Tuesday morning,
and further declaring that he saw it
moving outward to sea. Officers of the
Louisiana had only reported that they
saw ;t cruiser leave the capes. The
report of Commander Shane contains
the first officia 1 declara tlon that a
warship was seen leaving.
"I am confident that I saw the same
vessel that the Louisiana reported."
Commander Shane said to-day. "And.
while l cannot say that it was a British
cruiser. I do know that it was a wir
sh i p.
"I saw her leaving the capes about 3
o'clock in the morning. That was af
ter she had exchanged signals with
the Louisiana. I witnessed those
signals. l>ut 1 do not know what they
were, as my signalmen could not read
I them.
"Nothing can convince me that a i
strange warship was not in Hampton j
Roads "n that morning."
| decli.nks to disciss
DICTA II.S OK UKl'llllT
Commander Shane declined to dis- !
cuss the details of his report, as he
believes that information should be in
the hands of the Navy Department of- :
ticials before becoming public. Others, i
however, pave some of the details of j
the Neptune's reported sighting of the 1
m> story ship as follows:
The Neptune came into the capes
about four miles behind the Louisiana.!
instead of some 50m yards, as previously
declared by men on other ships. She*
was just inside the c:ipes when she first
saw signaling between tin- Louisiana
! and another ship carrying man-of-war
lights After the exchange the tin- t
| identified ship passed further up the.
channel toward Hampton Roads.
Almost half an hour later persons
aboard the Neptune next saw the
mystery ship. She was heading out
ward, carrying the regular running
lights, and in addition two white lights
aft. signifying that she was a nnn-of
war. The Neptune signaled her. and
I she did not reply, but put out her white
lights.
Continuing her outward journey, she
passed within yards of the Neptune. !
made toward the Cape Henry Light- !
house side of the capes and dis
appeared in the darkness,
xo possibility ok his ship
IlKIMi TAKIC.V KOIl W.VHSHIP
Commander Shane declared" to-day
that there was no possibility of the
Louisiana having mistaken either his
ship or the Brazilian steamer Tihagy
for a warship, h >?h of which sugges
tions have been made the subject of
official inquiry. His ship did not
signal the Louisiana, he declared, and :
he is positive that it was not the j
Tihagy. which he has seen since the I
incident of the mystery ship arose, .
which he saw signaling the Louisiana, j
To-day passed without incident for i
! the neutrality patrol outside the three- j
mile limit. Only the cruiser North j
j Carolina now is remaining on guard j
l outside at night. The torpedo-boat de- ;
? stroyers are spending the nights near
I Lynnliaveil Inlet, two miles inside the
J capes.
PIIKI.PS S15.V I?S n IITII Kit
H101'OIIT O.N INCIDENT
WASHINGTON, July US.?Commander
Phelps, of the battleship Louisiana,
sent a further report to the Navy De
partment to-day regarding the mys
terious Vessel which signaled "Kngllsh
j cruiser" to him in lower Chesapeake
| Bay early last Tuesday morning.
In view of the report of the British
| admiral commanding the cruiser squad
! ron off the Atlantic coast, brought to
j the State Department's attention by the
' British ambassador, denying that any
of his ships had entered American ter
ritorial waters, the incident will not
tie the subject of inquiry or protest.
Officials are mystified, however, by
| Commander Phelps's circumstantial ac
count of what happened.
j Following is Commander Phelps's
supplementary report:
"About 2:-4ft A. M. Tuesday. July 25.
the Louisiana, then standing for an
anchorage in Lytinhaveil Bay, being at
the time to westward of the line Cape
Henry light?tail of the Horseshoe
j light vessel, a vessel carrying mau-of
j war lights, masthead light, running
lights and range lights, with the loom
of deck standing, lights glowing
through live or six square ports, with
out any other illumination whatever,
came, up on the starboard quarter of
the Louisiana, distant perhaps not more I
than 750 yards, heading for the channel '
into Hampton Roads.
"The Louisiana blinkered interroga- I
tory to her several times and turned
on man-of-war lights. Finally she an
swered (blinker) "English cruiser."
She signaled very rapidly, causing the
Louisiana to have, her repeat more than
once until we were sure of her signal.
"She disappeared in the thickness to
ward the channel to Hampton Roads
"1 did not signal to ask her name
and her intentions because her action
had not seemed suspicious to me, in
asmuch as sjic seemed fairly to disclose
her presence, seemed ralrly standing
for Hampton Roads, and left me with
the feeling that she was actually going
' (Continued on" Second Page.) <
"Hero of the Marr.e"
CiKVKHAI. MAXfil.N'.
WliiT- la Dlrcetlnn Oprrntlous H
French Army on Vcrilu?
Croat.
U&m dllct ~~
issue n? mm
Comments Shurply on Published
Statement of Dpnincratlo
House Lender.
CHKCK - COLLECTION* CHARGES
Denounces Old System of hxtortion, i
Declaring That Federal Art Seeks
to Abolish This Scandalous Method
of Financial Lechery.
LYNCHBL'IKi, V.\? .T>ilv is.?Repre
sentative Carter Olassj chairman of
the Banking and Currency Pommlttee
of tho House, to-day commented sharp
ly on the published statement of Con
gressman Kitchin. the Democratic
House liitdor, concerning exchange and 1
ohcck-r?ollertlon charges by certain
hanks throughout the country. "1 have
no knowledge." said Mr. Glass. "of any
order issued by the Postmaster
tieuerul which affects check clearances,
and. h. n. e. 1 will not comment on
something I know nothing about, but
If t;.,nvressman Kitchin intends to
make .1 plea for the old system of ox- ;
tort ion practiced by certain banks un
der the guise of check-collection
charges. 1 take direct Issue with him
The Federal reserve act socks to
abolish that scandalous system of
financial lechery, and it is amazing
to and tho Democratic leader of the
House of Representatives, who voted
for the act. apparently seeking to
justify an arbitrary tax on the com
merce and Industry of the United
States which simply amounts to taking
the property of American business men
without compensation
-To assert, as Mr. Kitchin is quoted j
as having done, that four-tifths ot :
the State banks derive SO l?*r c lit ot |
their net income from check-collection
charges, is to furnish a startling Illus
tration of the necessity of putting an
end to such extortion. Think of it!
Thousands of hank* existing for no
better purpose than to discount, and to
that extent to burden the checks given
by the merc hants, farmers and busl-|
ness men on deposits kept by them with j
these banks. The very statement of |
the proposition carries its own con- j
demnatlon.
STOP TO TIIICIH KX ACTIONS
AVI I.I. lil ll'C M) ,1'OM.MIMTY
1 "Banks that exist only to get some- |
thing to which they have no defensible 1
title are not banks, they are money j
sharks; and to put a stop to their
exactions will not hurt any community ;
If there are 8.000 such banks, as Mr ,
Kitchin asserts, it may be replied that
there are considerably over S.nitii.OOn
people of the United States who do |
business by checks, and who should not ;
have their deposit accounts preyed
upon. It Is said that Iper cent of
the business of the United States is,
transacted through our system of,
checks and drafts, rather than by use ;
of currencv. It is this great volume ,
of business that Mr. Kitchin seems
willing to have taxed by extortion I
through check exchange.
"It doesn't help the matter to say
that banks doing this business arc j
State banks. A tax on business is a J
tiix on business, whether levied by a
State or national bank: find, accepting 1
Mr. Kitchin's own figures, this tax has
applied with such severity as to have
furnished 5t> per cent of the net income
of ?,00i> banks'. A bank which admits
that 50 per cent of its net income :s
derived from taxing checks on the con
structive interest theory has no ex
cuse for its "fcxistencc. It should bo ^
put out of business, and the quicker 1
the better. Public sentiment has com-,
pelled an abandonment of the system
in larger business communities of the 1
country, and the Federal reserve act ,
was intended to force it out_of exist-j
ence everywhere."
OltDKIt IS St SPUN OKI)
I \Til. Ft ItTHKH NOTIC'K j
WASHINGTON. July ? Postmaster- !
tjentral Murieson to-d:?y suspeiide 1 .
until further notice Ins recent orlcr j
authorizing (Sostmasters to collect ,
checks on banks In small communities j
where there are no members of the |
Federal reserve, system. The suspen- ;
slou was ordered at the suggestion of
the Federal Reserve Board.
The. board does not consider that
Stat > banks would he seriously affected
by the arrangement, and believes It
would save millions of dollars annually
to merchants throughout the country
who now are compelled to pay ex
change on checks drawn on such banks.
Important Successes at Two
Points Less Than Sixty
Miles Apart.
MAKES MORE INSECURE
GERMAN HOLD ON KOVEL
British Troops North of the
Somme Occupy Whole of
Longueval.
RETAKE ALL OK MELVILLE WOOD
French Report Sonic Progress to
West of Thiauniont
Work.
German Airships Raid
East Coast of England
.
IiOXDOV, July 20.?Ormnn nlr
nlilp.x rnlilril thp rnnt ?'nn?t of IC111;
Innd enrly till* inorniiiK. neoordlns:
to nn ofHrinl *tnt?M*?ent .lust Isnued.
"The number of rnldrr*." nays the
?(ntrmcnt, ??him not jpt been cntiih
Ittthed. The report* a* ? <* the raiders
rrnxitlnB the connt (Mime from Vork
?.lilre nnd Ij|nroln?hlre. n?mh? were
dropped, hut (lelnlln nrr lacklni;."
Driving forward at two points less
than sixty miles apart, Russian forces
have raptured Broily, in Galida, and
have broken the Austro-German first
lines yvest of Lutsk, in Volhynia^ ac
cording to the latest official Russian
oomnuinliv t ion.
The success in Volhynia. while also
a menace to Lemherg should General
von Linsingen he able to withstand the
Russian attacks which Petrograd re
ports are continuing. threatens the
stronghold of Vladimir-Volynski, and
makes more insecure the Austro-Ger
man hold on ICovel.
British troops north of the Somme, in
j France, have succeeded in occupying
I the whole of Longueval against a stub
I born defense by the Germans. Their
mar.h toward Bapaume also has been
aided by the reoccupation of the Del
vllle wood.
On the front held by the French
no lighting in the Somme region is re
ported by Paris. In the Vosges, how
ever. the Germans have attempted to
break the French line. In one attack
south of Sainte Marie Pass the Ger
mans gained a foothold in French posi
tions, but were driven out. Paris says.
A second attack was broken up.
The French have made some prog
ress to the west of Thiaumont work
on the right bank of the Meuse.
In a .naval battle between several
German submarine and three British^
patrol boats off the coast of Scotland,
Berlin reports the sinking of one of the
British vessels. It adds that the other
patrol boats are supposed to have been
sunk. London says that in a raid by
a German submarine on a fleet of
British fishing vessels, eight of the
vessels wore sunk
BRODY. U.\ !!.!tfV\? .U NCTION
WON IIV CZAR'S FORCES
LONDON. July 28.?Brody, a great
railroad junction in Galicia, fifty-eight
miles northeast of Lemherg. which it
was expected the Austrian troops
would retain at all costs, has been cap
tured by the ?'"zar's forces in a new
and unexpected stroke administered by
the Russians. The taking of this im
portant town, it is believed, may lead
to the capture of Lemherg itself. News
of the fall of Brody is coincident with
reports that the Sonnne battle is con
tinuing successfully for British forces
under Sir Douglas Haig.
The Russians, according to a report
from Petrograd. also have broken the
whole Austro-German front west of
Lutsk. In this success they are re
ported to have captured two generals,
prisoners and forty-six guns.
The fall of Brody is a serious threat
to Lemherg, and the rapid and suc
cessful advance of General Sakharoff's
forces menace the whole Austro-Ger
man line of communicatio? from the
north to the south.
FOIl PIIKSKXT lv()\i:i. Vll-:i,l)S
IN mi'OltTANt i: TO 1.E.M3ERG
For the present Kovel yields in Im
portance to Lemherg. The position on
this portion of the Russian front sterns
to be that General Kaledines, having
driven Gem-ral von Linsingen's left
wing behind the Stokhod River, has
suspended his advance toward Kovel
and is holding up the great Teutonic
forces there, while General Sakharoff
is pressing on toward Li-mberg, which
is defended by the forces of General
Boehm-l?rinolli.
Pet rograd correspondents attribute
the successes over the Austro-German
forces almost entirely to the over
whelmingly superiority of the Russian
artillery and Russia's apparently end
Uss supplies of ammunition.
To-night's official report of the Brit
ish War office shows that the British
are continuing their successful prog
ress The whole of Longueval now Is
in their hands, as well as the Devllle
wood, from which they drove the Fifth
Bra ndenburg Division.
The linal capture of Del^ille wood la
very gratifying to the British people.
It was lirst taken July IT, but was
afterward abandoned. For many days
the wood and the village of Longueval
h.i vV been the scene of some of the
heaviest lighting of the whole cam*
paign. The possession of this wood
and Longueval is expected to facilitate
greatly the fur:'.ier progress of the
Franco-British forces.
C.KK.MAN TltE.VCIIKS CLEARED
WITH HAND GRENADES
PARIS, July SR.?Russians recon
nolterlnr at Auberlve, in the Ch?m>
pagne, says the French official state- ? ,
ment Issued this afternoon, penetrated
. a? . .? ... :.?'v.a.x
