X
s
NtGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, JULY 29, 1918.
ConnronT, 1010, nr the Pcmto Lroora CoitriNr.
PRICE OHE OEJSTT
l. n.- NO. 273
tAVS-SMASH :
OVEL FRONT;
ME BRZEZNY
issiloff Throws Back
fLinsingen Beyond
Stokhod Line
ILIN WAR OFFICE
ADMITS RETREAT
sian Forces Move 'on
Sternberg From Three
" TliVonfintia
W ON ZLOTA LIPA
baroff Pursues Boehm-ErzJ
ImpHi -Leschitsky Wins in
Bukowina
malhtnt? blows, delivered in quick
wslon by tho advancing Russian
nro fnllimr UDon tho Austro-
jjrian armies defending Kovcl and
, iTnlTntiMMr firan linrtTt THf
Lt DM.Jf V.n rnlflnn afrnntrlinlfl
0ho Eovno-Lembcrg Railroad, Gen
ial Bruaslloff has thrown back the cn-
AtT?Airn1 lttin ftf Hnnnrnl Vnn T. main-
Em; Von Linsingcn's retreat beyond
M Stokhod is officially admitted by
ierlin. Tho "army of General Sakha-
bff, conqueror of Brody, is pursuing
tin mfrnnlni fnrrna nf Rnehm-Ermolli.
fGhJch is rapidly falling back toward
3ask. Ab if by an appointed signal,
he fall of Brody is being followed by
. oulck forward movement of tho Rus-
tfan armies operating on the Tarnopol-
Eieniberg and Kolomea-Dclatyn-Stanis-
ivo occunlcd Brzezny. on tho Zlota-
Hpa River, southwest of Tarnopol. On
We latter. General Leschitsky has
brown back tho demoralized armies of
Ifothmer and Pflanzer in tho direction
U StanislaU to south of the Dniester.
LThq Russians arc, therefore, striking
lB&aTB from three different di-
pctlons. At one point, Brody, they arc
Kmltf'ifi miles from tho Gnlician capital,
UiSTfoirof which is expected within
info weeks. . ,
j'i'fie number of prisoners taken by tho
Lmblnnn in the recent flcntint is 400
Sneers nnd 20,000 men.
Tho nrmv of the Grand Huko
tfirhnlns. which has already achieved
tome records for speedy advance, is
till hurrying along, according to Pctro-
rad. and has captured Ezcrzany,
hrown back tho Turks opposing the
oreasure toward Kharput and beaten
Fbacjc a Turkish attack from Mossul.
PETROGRAD. July 29.
Tho Austro-Hungarlan baso of Brzezny,
on tho Ztota Llpa River, southwest of
Tarnopol, has been captured by tho Rus
sians, lt was officially announced today.
luBtro-Gcrman troops have been hurled
ack by the armies of General Brusslloff
n the whole rront Detween mo novel-
kovno railway and Brody, In Volhynla, and
brtheaatern Gallcla. The prisoners talten
the recent fighting up to yesterday total
riOO officers nnd 20,000 men.
By an audacious thrust. General Lec-
ilckl haa thrown the enemy back In the
Indirection of Stanlslau, to the south of the
'Dniester, the statement continued. "Flg-
ji'ures as to his prisoners nnd booty are not
, ivo'llable as yet."
General Boehm-Ermolll's Auatro-German
wrny. which was driven from Brody by the
Russians, la retiring In a westerly direction
i"tnnr the r.emhercr.rjubno Rallwav toward
iSiisk.
f"'-Ey the capture of Brody the Austro-
3ftmnn nnnltfnnci nn th Rtvi" llvr In thft
fc-..- - -r, . ul. i ,..
Menaced and a. general withdrawal of the
Teutons in that region is Imminent.
': ' Although the Auatro-Hungarlans blew up
warehouses, magazines and fortified works
bifore retiring from Brody, an immense
mount of war stores fell Into the hands of
.the Russians as well as many prisoners.
Railway bridges were dynamited, but be-
fnra the Russian army was well Into Brodv
rand while the glare of burning buildings
and explosions or munitions was still light
ing up tha countryside, engineers were at
'york repairing the damage.
ft Flirhting is now taking nlace on the
AKeastern corner of Gallcla for the first time
lllyC WQ 4iua4f& vufioi viigu
"Between the point where the Styr River
Contlassd oa.Para Two, Column Dae
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinitu f3en-
arallv fair tonight and Sundau. with
ilwlu rising temperature; gentle, eaat
rfrty winds,
i" rvvnvii iw nx
Sua rl 4aS5a.ra.iIoon rUe.., 4:50 ,m.
oa t.,... t;UP-m.Moon outti.jiUB ,m.
P DELAW.VUE BIVK TIDE CII.VNOK3.
CHESTNUT STREET,
Wf water. -12:0a i-m.iiit water.. i:ip.m.
Low water ., 8:11 .m.Lv water... 83 p.m.
TKJll'ElUTUltE AT EACH HOUH.
rsi a
a 1 1 is j tT3
"741751 701 70
Ff7T?g
Hr
31 41 6
T
LQSX AND SOUND
rlUNOh It. rtni two diamonda. pearl la cen
i ten platinum aettlnsi 4:11 brtdze train. Frf
' day. July- 21. from NorA PWladelpWa; ra
ward. ?a K. Bd at. .
Other IVeat and Ifeund Asa ea Face 10 '
Zapp and Birsky
NAVAL MILITIA HOME FROM CRUISE
rsft ..rfjrirft vOhIkP jfenrr :. m IJmtiBii
Tho Pennsylvania Battalion of tho Naval Militia returned to tho
city today after a battleship cruise of more than two weeks along tho
coast. In the picture nn officer is shown teaching n sailor how to
pack his bag for removal from Race street pier.
WEAK-MINDED SLAYER,
IN SHADOW OF CHAIR,
GETS THIRD REPRIEVE
Charles Steilow, Illiterate That
Killed New York Farmer,
Saved for Few Hours
at Least
JUSTICE MAY SPARE HIM
OSSINING, N. T., July 29. For tho third
tlmo Charles Stlelow was literally snatched
from death today when his oxecutlon, set
for 0 o'clock this morning, was postponed
by order of Supremo Court Justlco Guyl
Tho court early today postponed execu
tion until 11 o'clock tonight. Tho court de
sired to go over Important papers submit
ted about midnight.
Tho man's wife nnd his babies waited up
to 8 o'clock outsldo tho prison walls to ro
celvo tho body. The stay camo at tho
Eleventh hour and after Governor 'Whitman
had refused clemency. Twice before stnys
had been granted.
No one was- more surprised than Stlelow.
Ho had donned his death-suit, -wlthtonolcg
of tho trousers split to rocolvo the deadly
I electrode. Ills head had been shaved and he
was calling good-bys to occupants of otehr
colls in tho death houso wheiTviustico Guy's
order stopped the pro'ceedlngs by telepnone
at 4:30 o'clock this morning.
Stlelow's case has created more nctlvlty
In behalf of a doomed man than nny recent
caso In Sing Sing's deathouso history.
Ho was convicted of murdering a farmer.
Thero has always been some doubt of Ms
guilt. A "confession" ho signed contains
several hundred words. Alienists showed
Stlelow, of subnormal mentality, had n
vocabulary of about one-third tho number
of words contained In tho confession. He
cannot read or write.
Prison officials say Stlelow's case presents
the narrowest escape from tho death chair
on record.
U-BOAT ATTACKS BIG
ITALIAN STEAMSHIP
Re d'ltalia, Passenger Liner, Es
capes by Using Guns Mounted
for Defense
ROME, July so.
The big new Italian passenger liner
Re d'ltalia has been attacked by a Gorman
submarine on her present voyage to New
Tork, but escaped owing to the fact that
she was armed.
The Italian Ministry of Marine gave
"hews of the attack in an official statement
issued today,
Tho following official report was made
on tha incident;
"A submarine attacked the Re d'ltalia
while proceeding to New York. Tha
steamship opened fire and finally escaped."
The Re d'ltalia is one of the newest
ships in the Italian-New York service. She
is owned by tha Lloyd Sabaudo line. In
accordance with a ruling of tha Italian
Ministry of Marine, made soma time ago,
she Is armed with two guns for defensive
purposes,
NEW YORK, July 2$. The liner Re
d'ltalia Is tha property of Furness, Withy
& Company, Ltd., of 32 Broadway, New
York. At tha office It was stated today
the Re d'ltalia Bailed from Genoa on July 10.
The New York agents had not heard of
the submarine attack and could not furnish
any details of how the vessel "beat off" a
submarine attack, but they assumed her
superior speed outdistanced tha submer
sible. Railroad Fights City for Piece of Land
Equity proceedings were started today In
Court No. 1 by the SchuyiUlU Rlyer East
Side Railroad Company against the city
to enjoin the municipal authorities from
proceeding with tha condemnation of a
piece of ground at Twenty-fifth and W"
streets, used by the plaintiff for trackage.
Councils has passed an ordinance authoriz
ing the municipality to take the ground be
tween Twenty-fourth, and Twentjr-flfth
streets and, Jackson and Wolf streets for a
publlo square. Included in the plot, the.
railroad explains. Is about one-tenth of an
acre of Its property. The city's right to
condemn snd Uka this slip of ground is
questioned by the company, which seeks the
Injunction to stop the proceeding.
Laud Salesmanship
ALEXANDER PULLS OUT
OF A HOLE IN OPENING
. ROUND OF FIRST FRAY
Hendrix Is Chicago Cubs' Choice
for the Mound Duty in
Contest With'Moran's
Men
PHILS SCORE IN SECOND
CHICAGO
Zttdrr, 3b
l'lnrk. rf
Mnnn, of
Zlmmrrmnn, 2b
Prliuttr, It
Wprtmnn, 8S
Hnler. lb
FUchfr. o
llrmlrlt. n
Uinplrea Qoltler
rmixiES
Vnnktrt. ft
NlfhofT. 2b
Mock, flli
loocl, rf
1Vliltld. If
T.udrriiK. lb
llinrroft. as
Klllefer. e
Alexander. P
nml llrron.
PHILLIES' BALL PARK, July 29. A
crowd of moro than" 10,000 was on hand
oven beforo tho first game of today's
double-header botwocn tho Phillies and
Cubs had started. As a rulo, tho fans sel
dom get to tho park on double-header days
until tho first game Is well under way, and
tho early turn-out today mado it seem cer-
Lialnjhat tho gates, would bo closed before
tho second game started. It was a noisy
and enthusiastic gathering.
No doubt, the publicity given the recont
purchases, by tho Cubs helped to swell tho
crowd. The fans were very much inter
ested In Wortman, who Is said to havo
cost the Cubs moro thnn 22,000, tho ma
jority of which Is In players, however.
Alexander tho Great went out to win his
20th victory of tho season at tho expense
of the Cubs. The Phillies' star was In trou
ble right from tho Jump, but pulled out In
fine shapo. Claude Hendrix. formerly of
.the Pirates and Chl-Fcds, was picked to
opposo Alexander. He started off In an
Impressive manner.
Tho Cubs wero minus tho scrvlco of Cy
Williams, tho sensational outfielder. Wil
liams was hit by a pitched ball yesterday,
and lt was believed that his wrist was
fractured. Ills absehco from the game
weakened the Cubs considerably as tho
lanky outfielder always has played sensa
tional ball In this city.
FIRST INNING.
Zolder lined a single to left, but he
strayed too far oft first and waB caught
napping, Alexander to Ludcrus. Flack filed
to Whltted. Mann hit the bleacher wall
for a double. Tho mighty Zimmerman
fanned. No runs, two hits, no errors.
Zelder threw out Paskert. Nlehoft was
easy for Zimmerman and Salcr, Hendrix
threw out Stock. No runs, no hits, no
errors.
HELD FOR THEFT OF BRASS
AT CITY HALL; "SYSTEM" SEEN
Police Suspect Conspiracy to Rob Pub
lic Buildings
City Hall Guard Wilson this morning un
earthed what is believed to be a systematic
scheme1 of stealing brass and other articles
from the basement of the public buildings,
Wilson arrested a man giving the name
of James Jennings, of 1923 South Bonsall
street, after he had sold a lot of brass
pipes to Edward J. Sweeney, a Junk dealer,
at Seventeenth and Wood streets, for fl.45.
The stuff had been taken from tha base
ment of the City Hall. Jennings insisted
ha did not take it himself, saying it had
been given to him by another person. Ha
would glva no further Information and
Magistrate Mecleary held him In 400 ball
for a, further hearing.
An investigation Is now being made In the
hope that the person, possibly an employe
of the City Hall, who aided Jennings, may
bo arrested.
FINED FOR STEALING RIDE
Negro Escapes From Accident, but
Comes to Grief in Court
Special Agent Frank H. Gasklll, of the
Philadelphia Rapid Transit Company, is
determined to break up the practice of per
sons stealing rides by clinging to the sides
of the cars. This morning he caused an
example to be made of Samuel Major Rob
inson, a'negro. 85 years old. of 1225 Parrish
street Robinson was fined $5 and costs by
Magistrate, Jlarrls.
Robinson has the distinction of being
the first adult to be arrested for this prac
tice, which, has been so common among
children, but he cama near being seriously
injured. He was standing on the journal
of a green car and hanging to the screen,
when, at Thirteenth and Cherry streets, he
collided with a. pile of bricks and, was
thrown to the ground.
SKAIIOABU AlK USB BAILWAY
Operating through all-.tecl trains on regular
schedule via regular route. Sajannah.Jackion
vllle. Florida. Atlanta, IMrmlninam. South and
fiouthweat. Superior aerrtce. luulra t Set
board's new offlco. 1533 Chcitnut St. rtona
Spruce 235s. -id v.
otTheir German
BRITISH TROOPS
CRUSH GERMAN
COUNTER-DRIVE
Teutons Fight Desperately
but in Vain to Retake
Delville Wood
ENGLISH GAIN GROUND
Prom Two to Three Regiments
t of Kaiser Annihi- .
lated
From two to three German regi
ments were wiped out in the savage
fighting in Delville Wood, it is officially
reported from London today.
Savage counter-attacks havo been de
livered by tho Germans in an effort to
recapture the Wood from tho British,
but all were repulsed with heavy losses.
Another aeries of strong assaults
was launched by the British against
the German positions in the region of
Pozicres and High Wood nnd at both
places tho British gained ground.
Gcnernl Haig's report indicated par
ticularly violent engagements beyond
Poziores, from which newly captured
point tho British nro endeavoring to
push on toward Bapaumc. There tho
combnt was marked by unceasing hand-to-hand
fighting.
Just north of Longueval, at Delville
Wood, British positions aro under in
tense pressure from tho German lines.
On the wholo front British, French
and Germans! aro bringing tho full
weight of their artillery to bear, and
a colossal big-gun combat is raging
along tho greater part of the 40-milo
Picardy front.
Tho renewal and repulse of German
attacks at Verdun is reported by the
Paris War Office today. On tho right
bank of the Mcuso the French gained
some ground in counter-attacks. Heavy
cannonading along the entire Verdun
front is reported.
VERDUN VETERANS FIGHT
IN VAIN TO DRIVE BACK
DRITISH FROM NEW GROUND
LONDON, July '2 9. - -Tho
British front Is withstanding Ger
many's most powerful attacks. Artillery
hammering nnd massed attack, with hand-to-hand
fighting, has so far failed to dont
Continued on Tare Two, Column Tour
Si.y5te3,sinKfc2
MAY BE POISON CANDY
VICTIM
Mildred Allen, 3 years old, daugh
ter of John A. Allen, of G127
Baynton street, Germantown, died
in convulsions, her illness closely
following tho eating of candy pur
chased near her home. Coroner
Knight is investigating.
FEAR CHILD DIED OF POISON
SJie Bought Lollypop in Corner Store
and Died in Convulsions Cor
oner Investigates
Coroner Knight is Investigating today tha
cause of the death of Mildred Allen, 3
years old, daughter of John A. Allen, 6137
Baynton street, who died last night In con
vulsions, believed to have been caused by
eating poisonous candy.
Mildred had a penny Thursday night She
hurried from her home to a corner store a
half square away and, after some deliberat
ing, chose a bright-colored lollypop, or all-day-sucker,
from the showcase. Not long
after she reached home, eating the lolly
pop on the way, she became 111.
Mr, Allen called Dr. John Howard Frlck,
of 403 High street The physician did not
know the child had eaten candy and treated
her for summer complaint, 'which was in
dicated by the symptoms. When tha child
fell Into convulsions ha realized she must
have eaten poison and on inquiring was
told of tha lollypop. He notified Coroner
Knight
Ftiends on Page 4
m.m ip wA ! i M1 v'WJtn'rir-rnTmriV" wtW
QUICK
CHICAGO ,,.0 0 40
PHILLIES, 1st G... 0 1 1 .
Hendrix and Fischer; Alexander nnd Killefer, n
ATHLETICS, 1st G t . -
CHICAGO ,.. ' -
i
NATIONAL LEAGUE
PITTSBURGH, 1st gO O
v NEW YORK 1 O
N Hauiaux and Glb3on; Pcrritt and Bariden.
CINCINNATI, 1st g.O 1
BROOKLYN O 1
Schneider nnd Clarke; Marquard and Meyers.
ST. LOUIS, 1st g....O 2 O
BOSTON O O O
" Ames and Snyder; Budolph and Qowdy.
AMERICAN LEAGUE
s
BOSTON, 1st g O
DETROIT., u..... 4
Kuth.and Cady; Covaleskie and Baker.
NEW YORK, 1st jj..
ST. LOUIS....' '
CHILDREN BARRED FROM EXCURSION TRAINS TO N. Y.
HABRISBTJBG, July 29..Chlldren under 1J yearp h.ayo beea. for
bidden by Commissioner of Health Samuel O. Dixon to travel on the'
- excursion ,f rains running from, points inennsylvanla-iiito Greater
' NewYaric, owing to tho continued spread of' the epidemic of InfaatUef
paralysis in that city. , . ' '. '.,
U. S. SENATE HOPES FOR CLEMENCY FOR IRISH REBELS
"rrrmnTGTON, July 29. The Senate, by a vote of 46 to 19,
this afternoon adopted a resolution expressing bope that the British.
Government would exercise clemency in the treatment of Irish po
litical prisoners. The resolution was a substitute for Senntor Mar
tine's resolution requesting the President to intercede in behalf of
Boger Casement
489 CASES OF INFANTILE PARALYSIS IN JERSEY
15T2NT0N, July 29. At the State Department of Health it was
reported that there are now 489 cases of infantile paraly&is in tha
State.' Thirty-two additional cases were reported today.
RUMOR OF BIG CUT IN PRICE OF FORDS
:jX7vOIT, Mich., July 29. Bumors here today were that tie
Ford Motor Company next week will announce a reduction in the
price of Ford touring cars from $490 to 53eo. Ford officials refused
to confirm the report, but promised a statement Tuesday. All lora
touring cars now-on the market will go at the reduced price, it is said,
but the new price.wijl not take in certain models now being .manu
factured, .
PENNSYLVANIA OILS DECREASE 10 CENTS IN. PRIGE
PITTSBURGH. July 29. The Joseph Seep OH Agency today announced a drop
of 10 cents In the price of Pennsylvania oils, 5 cents In Somerset and' 8 cents In
Bagland This drop follows the recent fall in Ohio, Illinois, Indiana and Oklahoma,
markets. x
INDEPENDENCE, Kan., July 28. Another out of 10 cents a barrel was made
today in the price of midcontinental crude oil to $1.35.
of Today's Amusement Section of
NEWS
"t '
T
i
i
&
BLAMES ROBINSON
FOR TRANSFERS OF
GAMING MACHINES
Police Head Ordered Shift in
Forty-seventh Ward, Mc- ,
Fadden Tells Jury,
WARRANTS NOT SERVED
Cases Against Gamblers Weren't
Pushed, Captain Testifies.
Rotan Presses Inquiry j
Tho mysterious shitting of gambling slot
machines from one house in tho Forty
seventh Ward to another nnd their return,
on orders of Superintendent of Police Itob
Inson, to the placo In which they were
originally operated, was one of the revolu
tions made before the Grand Jury by Cap
tain of Police "William McFadden. Ho also
declnred that ho swore out warrants for th
arrest of gambling houso proprietors which
wero not tictcd upon.
Details Of his testimony' were learned to
day. He explained tho mysterious maneu
vering of the gambling machines Just be
foro tho Jury ndjourned last night
Superintendent Hoblnson refused to dis
cuss this testimony this afternoon nnd fled
along tho corridors of City Hall Until h
"barricaded" himself behind tho doors of
his office. ,
POPULAR ATTRACTION. ,
Tho Forty-seventH Ward, in which the
gambling machines were nn attraction at a
popular polling place. Is dominated by
"Pclo" Smith, a Varo leader, whose politi
cal fortunes have zigzagged considerably In
tho last few years. Tho neighborhood was
known generally as "Llttlo Monto Carlo"
on account of tho many alleged gambling
places that were open In defiance, lt is
said, of tho complaining residents.
"When Captain McFadden was called be
fore tho Jury he confined his testimony to
the movements of tho gambling outfit. Ho
said he had instructed Lieutenant Samuol
Llttlo, of tho Fifteenth and Oxford ntreots
stntlon, to removo tho machines from a
houso on Ridge avenue several weeks ago.
He then assorted that the machines were
taken out of the house to another placo
nearby, and returned to their original place
a few days later.
"On whose orders were tho machines re
turned to tho house from which they were
removed" he was naked.
"On the orders of Superintendent Robln.
son," replied McFadden. The captain also
said that- he personally obtained evldenc
against gambling houses and their nlleged
proprietors, and .sworo out warrants for
their arrest. These warrants, he said, wero
turned over to Robinson and up to the
present time have not been acted upon.
When the question of the gambling slot
machines was again brought up McFadden
said he ordered their removal as a result
of complaints received In the neighborhood.
WILSON SILENT.
. When Director Wilson was informed of
Captain McFadden's testimony he said, "I
have no comment to make at all."
Superintendent Hoblnson 'was walking
alone the corridor with him at the time. He
was told of McFadden's statement beforo
the Grand Jury. "I don't know what Mc
Fadden testified," he replied, and, turning on
his heel abruptly, started a retreat in ths
direction of Director Wilson's offlce. News
paper men repeated the captain's testimony
as they followed htm. Robinson glanced at
them fiercely and 'said repeatedly that h
didn't know what McFadden said. On
reaching the Director's offlce he swung open
tho Iron gate and slammed It with a vicious
clang. Then he shut the door leading to his
own offlce in the face'of his questioners.
Several alleged gamblers will be sum
moned before tho Grand Jury on Monday.
Subpoenas for them were Issued this after
noon. Among those expected to appear are
"Dick" Kelker, a man named Mo3cony,
John Holland, "Moe" Welnbeck, leader of
the eighth division of the Twentieth Ward,,
and. about a dozen others.
They will be asked whether they ever
paid for police protection and to whom ths
money was given. If they paid any.
Numerous .communications were received
by District Attorney Rotan today from
residents In many sections of the city who
volunteered to give information about
gambling places. All of them will be In
vestigated. Monday's session pi the Grand Jury, It
Is expected, will be one of the most Im
portant since the Investigation began.
Announcement was made late yesterday
that hereafter the names of all persons
summoned beforo the Grand Jury will b
kept secret, t They will be known only to
the Jury and the District Attorney's office.
In view of this announcement names of
witnesses who will testify on Monday wer
not made publlo last night,
"OPPORTUNITY TO GO DEEP."
District Attorney Rotan made his state
ment last night. 'This, is tho opportunity
to go deep into the conditions In the city
regarding vice and gambling,' he said.
"Never before in ray term of offlce has
there been such a golden chance to get
at the real facts and I assure you I am in
the Cght to the, finish. The Investigation
should be continued until every possible
exposure of wrong-doing has been mads,
regardless of the persona involved.
"We are making a. determined fight
against commercialised vice ajia gambling
These were the high points Jn a. statement
by DUtricI Attorney Rotan, who made t
plain that he was In favor- of- continuing
the Grand Jury beyond JU present term,
which epds on August 4, unti,r'tha investiga
tion has 'been completed.
The Grand Jury did nontt iodiy.
The Jurors had aa 6pportuip to reat
Evening Linger
4
-y
!
i
i
