AM INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING-, JULY 29, 1916
10 PAGES
.VOL. XXVII, NO 72
EQGAN
SUFWT
lVHJLllM 11
Auvuan 3xvi.9
J0
T
r1fl
Russians Are Now Well On Their Way To UmbemMM OF THE It FACTO
lit IRITIS CONTINUE
METHODICAL SUCCESS THE
RUSSIANS CIPT1E BID!
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
LONDON. July 28 While the battle of the Somme is continuing with
methodical success for the British forces, the Russians are able to announce
another important victory in the capture of Brocly. This Galician town, 58
miles northeast of Lemberg, is a great railway junction and it had been ex
pected the Austrians would retain it at all costs. The swittness of this new
Russian stroke was unexpected and may lead to the capture of Lemberg
e The Russians, according to a report from Petrograd, also have broken
the whole Austro-German front west of Lutsk. In this success they are re
ported to have captured two generals, 9.000 prisoners and 46 guns.
The fall of Brody is a serious threat to Lemberg and the rapid and suc
cessful advance of General Sakharoff's forces menaces the whole Austro-Ger-man
line of communications from the north to the south.
For the present, Kovel yields in importance to Lemberg. The position
on this Dortion of the Russian front seems to be that General Kaledines,
kwlnn rirlvn General Von Linsinqen's left wing behind the Stokhod river,
has suspended his advance toward Kovel and is holding up the great Teu
tonic forces there, while General Sakharoff is pressing on toward Lemberg,
which is defended by the forces of General Boehm-Ermolli.
d-. r-wi i-nrrcnnni4inti attribute the successes over the Austro-Ger-
mans entirely to the overwhelming superiority of the Russian artillery and
Russia's apparently endless supplies or ammunition.
Toniaht's official report of the British war office shows that the British
are continuing their successful progress. The whole of Longueval now is in
their hands as well as the Delville wood, from which they drove the fifth
Brandenberg division. . ,
The final capture of Delville wood is very gratifying to the British people.
It was first taken July 17, but was afterward abandoned. For many days
the wood and the village of Longeuval has been the scene of some of the
heaviest fighting of the whole campaign. The possession of this wood and
of Longeuval is expected to facilitate greatly the further progress of the
Franco-British forces.
BOTTLE SUPS
CUISEI
STILL NEEDED
GARDINER TELLS WHY
WOULDN'T TAKE OATH
LAST GERMAN STRONGHOLDS
IN LONHIAL ARE TAKEN
Bf THE BRITIS
T
Republican A. P. Leases Wire
LONDON, July -S The last Gor
man strongholds in l.ongucval have
been i aptur.d by the British troop,
iie.otdiiig to tlm official siat.-moiu
juvi-n out tonight by the war otfc e.
Hand to hand lighting coii-inued
throughout the day in the vicinity ot
poiores, the statement adds.
The British statement today says:
"Afbr severe fighting we hav-
driven the Fiith Brandenburg divis
ion from their remaining i.osiuons in
Delville wood, capturing three ollner.-i
and l.,s men.
The whole wood is now in our
hands and two derma n counter at
tacks have been beaten olf vita
heavy losses to the enemy.
We made further progress In
Longeuval village and rear Pozicres,
and in the latter area we raptured
foity. eight woiindcil H.-rman.
.ast night the enrmv Runs tvere
active against oi-r new positions and
there were heavy artillerv duels in
various sectors r.f the battle area.
Near Xueve Cliapolle small narties
of G'-rnians oiecee.led in entering our
front trenches at two points hut Im
mediately were driven out by a coun
ter attack leaving a few wounded in
our hands.
Northeast of Souehez and at sev
eral other points our .artillery shelled
the enemy front line and comaiunica
tion trenches."
A Turkish army estimated at 7'i.OuO
strong, now is concentrated in tn
Hungarian plains for the defense nf
Hungary, says a di patch to the F.x
change Telegraph rumpunv from Lau
sanne, Switzerland. The dispatch
adds that the Aiistri.in emperor h;n
lior.e to Budapest, where intense ex-cit'-ment
provail.s.
Germans Flee Before Bavoneta
PARIS (Via London) July '
atlrks bv the Herman ai'nlnst
I roi -h positions ..iith of Sninte Ma
rie pass, in the Vosgcs. resulted In
their gaining a lodgment in the ad
vanced French trenches, says the of
ficial statement siven out tonight.
T!ie statement adds, however, that
(Continued on Page Three)
W IEATIIS DURING DAY
F THE EXCESS! REST
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, July L'S.-The torrid
wave which has been hanging over
the middle west for nearly a month
teilay spread northward and sent the
m.-rcurv to VI degrr-.-s at Marquette,
Midi and Green I'ny. Wlf, The tor
riditv' rontinu.-d wih insignil lean
iibitement in all other central state",
but toni-'it Forecaster Mitchell, in
charge of the local tcoverntnent weath
er bureau, said signs of relief in the
C-inadi.an northwest were in sight.
The heat today was the greatest
ever recorded here.
Some of the holiest places today
were Piere, Soitlh Dakota, and Keo
I'tik and Davenport. Iowa, and Peoria,
iind Springfield. Ililinois.
In Chicago the maximum today was
i7 and with the "eonlinued fair ami
warm" prediction for tomorrow, Mr.
Mitchell promised a maximum "be
tween a", ami Kid."
F.cesr,ive heat it blamed for the
ileeth ol' r,i persons in Chicago dur
ing toe last 24 hours, according to re-
piprts made t' the police tonight.
Scores of persons were prostrated
liv the heat today.
a Mre-r-'. At 1o a. m. the tempera
ture was 74 and the humidity &8.
Warm In Nebraska
O.V.MIA, July 28 At noon the ther-momi-ter
registered i:l degrees in
Omaha, while reports from out In the
date ran from three to five decrees
higher.
Continues In Iowa
DCS MolNFS. Julv 2X. The In
tense hint which prevailed yesterday
throughout Iowa continued today
with no prospect of relief.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. July 2S Captain
W. Suns of the battleship Nevada,
ubp of the Xur it iiey-s.
before the congressional nual coin -miltee
durinsi preparation of the
naval hill, has reported in response
to a request from Secretary Daniels
that the battle off Jutland in which
I'ritish battle cruii-ers bore the brunt
of the Herman lire, has not changed
his belief as outlined at the commit
tee lieaiinns that both battle cruisers
and battleships are essential types to
round out the Ami'rican navy.
Captain funis' report, dated July
y. never has been Kivr-n out ly the
navy department. Secretary Dinip-ls
took exception to some passages in
it as open to criticism on Ki'pinnds of
neutrality, and requested that anothe'
be submitted in its p!a -e. It was
mad public tonUht as originally sub
milted, however, by liepreseiilat ive
diviT. a member of the hoiis" naval
committee who had written Captain
Sims askir? whether tne battle had
changed his views.
The captain replied that in t,
oninion there was nothing in avail
able acp'ounts of the li;:ht tip justify
any atiurrent a"ainst the n'Vssity
for battle cruisers, and that the onK'
surorise to naval critics was the cx
tiaordianry resistance of that typn 'f
vessel when pitted aeainst iattle-
shios. The repiprt savs in part:
"I have read can-fully the Amer-ic?-i
prrrs accounts (,f the netion also
a number of clippings received from
F.nlaiel wtiich cive a mih fuller
aenunt. The latter in'-lndes two
conoarri! ive articles tpublished in
I. and anil Watrr by Pollen, the well
known navnl critic.
"As Mr. Pollen indicates the ac
counts are published under control f.f
the censor. For example, the ad
miralty permitted Mr. Pollen to make
'erf-iln pure netrat'pe tatem-nis
con'-erninpr the causes 4,f the sinklni?
of the battle cruisers, but declines
lor the "resent to publish the real
c?use. This is a common pr.M-eduH
while wrr is in progress. For the
same reason, that is. to avoid loss pf
prr-st'gc, even radirf-1 mistakes in
taetc-s may be d( f-nded.
"For the above reasons it mav be
unite pspssil e that certain essential
feafres of this battle are beinc fimp-tirp-ssed.
the reasons bcins bith mili
tarv fpnd toliticnl.
"In view cf this possible and even
pro':.hle cond-t'on, nnv pioiniipn- re
tcardint? the Jpi ti)i should be consel-e-ed
nr!v with eVt rente reserv.it -on.
This resfrvitirn bebo clearly tinder
stood, the foilowins comments are
submitted. 1 ased only upon the knov- n
essential facts:
"Referring to Mr. Pollen's article,
and particularly to the rliaeram il
lustratii'ir the rela!ie jositiuns p'f
the Pritish main body and battle
cruisers and the Herman main body
and their battle cruisers, at the time
si'ht rental t was first made between
th b'ttb- cruisers of the two side",
it will be noted that the situation
was tvpical of that considered most
nro'oable In our war Fames oi ti e f-a
anl fin the p-,me board in the ivrn
Inz pbanos of a rt'i brittle between
lar-je fpppees.
"AssiipTiine' the above forces !n t P
relative position-! indicated. :mil ren
.ideriot; the meat superiority " th"
Hritish, both in nomh'-rs fnil In
tpower. one of two things must have
!in opened'
"One p'lthe- the nerman main
fleet wi iild have bron decisively de-f-ad,
or
"Til It would have piecliped de
i i.ie action bv r.-'tre.'iinp behind its
defenses and oven then the Pr'tish
would have inflicted upnn the Oer-me.-ius
a humiliation imtosslble to con
ceal, much le'i to claim a victory
fi r the encouragement of their peo
ple "The eontentlnn o' ft'-itish wi iters
that the Faerifi'-e of the battle cruiser
souadron in filhUn-' a del-iyiiii; ac
tion ncaint-t battleships late in the
afternoon, was in the hope of brinc
inif on n ceneral set ion lirlwwn the
main fleets Is not beleved to be
sound and 'or thi s'tnt le reason,
tha' the mititarv situation did nrd
rerpiire the British fle-t to fil-lit a
Contimjel on Pace Three)
COLFMIU'S, N. M., July 28.
1'rivate L. O. Gardiner, the New
Mexico national guardsman, whose
court martial has been ordered for
Auust 7 for refusing to take the
federal oath, made public toniyht
his reasons for bis refusal.
A cook by trade, he said that he
enlisted in the militia under a
promise of $1" a month as com
pany cook, tin his first pay day
he found ho received but fifty
cents daily. When the time came
for signing the muster roll, he ac
cordingly refused. For this, he was
placed in the stockade.
Hardiner declared that he will
fiuht the case to a finish, basing
hfci defense on the contention that
he was deceived by the recrutins
officer.
He also claims that he has three
children to support, which he is
unable to do on $15 a month.
DEUTSuHAND
'S
TUG OAS EXTRA
1
GOVERNMENT ACCEPTABLE IF
CHISSION'S SCOPE BROADER
EXECUTION OF
FRIATT ROUSES
BITTER STORM
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
F.ALT1MORF., July 28. An extra.
crew today went aboard the tug Thom
as F. Timmins, which is to tow the
submarine Deutschland to the capes.
Afterward a conference was held on
the tut? by Captain Paul Koenig, the
Deutschland's commander. Captain
Frederick Pinsch of the North German
Lloyd steamer Neckar, and Captain
i Zach Culliaoii of the tugboat.
A pilot was reported to have arrived
at tlie ppeutschland's pier about the
time the extra men went on the Tim
mins. but officers of the Maryland
Pilots' Association said no pilot had
been supplied the submarine and that
none so fur had been requisitioned.
Testing of the submersible's engines
continued today. This lias been going
on for several days and when it be
came known that several conferences
took place today between Constructor
Hustave Prusse and Captains Koenig
and Hinseh, a theory was evoked that I
some defect in the machinery still ex
isted. This was denied offic ially, how
ever, and it was said the tests simply
were to keep everything in working
order.
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, July 28. General Carranza was
informed tonight in a note handed to his ambassador
here that tlx; Washington government is prepared to
submit to a joint international commission the task of
seeking a solution of border problems. The proposal of
the de facto government for a commission is accepted,
however, with the suggestion that the powers of the com
missioners be enlarged beyond the limits proposed in
the Mexican note of July 12.
Agreement to this suggestion is expected and it was
stated officially tonight that the American mempers
would be appointed and the commission be assembled
at some point in the United States at an early date.
Following is the full text of Act-
T
Reports Seeing Warship
NORFOLK. Va.. July 2S. Lieutenant
Commander Iuiis Shane, of the United
States collier Neptune, said today he i
FRISCO BOI
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, July 2S. The execution of
n.!:iiii Frvatt of lie liritish steamer
Hrnssels bv the Herman government I bad forwarded an official report to
has aroused the liritish indignation J Washington corroborating the state
and ihe foreign olf ice has requested ! men! of officers of the United States
lames W. C.erar.l. tin- American am- ; iiaiiiesnip iniisiana tnai an uniueiui
IN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, July 25. Police
1 am confident that I saw the same ' outrage was an attempted attack 'in
vessel that Iiuisiana reported," said the United Railroads, operating about
Commander Shane, "and while 1 cannot I two-thirds of the street car systems
nay that it was a British cruiser, I do ' nf Pan Francisco, and was not the
know that it was a warship."
bassador at Pi-i lin to procure com- ilea warsnip was w itnin tne irginia ; nfli.-ials here today were .certain that
plete details of the affair. Accord-1 capes last Tuesday morning and fur- ' among the eight suspects under ar
!ng to information leeeived here. Cap- i tlu-r declaring that he saw it moving : rest they have the one who placed
tain Frvatt was sentenced to death ouiwaru to sea. l ne report, oi com- , th suitcase bomb that exploded Sat
iis acse, while in command of the Inlander Shane contains the first ot- j urday, killing nine persons and
British Meanicr Wrexham in l'.'l".. hefiial declaration that a warship was : wounding forty. Investigation was
was alleged to have attempted to rain ! seen leaviiur the capes. ! pro -eeding on the theory that the
a Herman submarine.
Viscount flrey, the liritish foreign
secretary, in a communication to
Ambsss:dor Herard. has claimed that
the ait for which Captain Frrtitt, paid
with his life, was "essentially de
fi'iisive "
The British foreign office claims
taht the alb-gatior. of the Herman
government that Captain Fryatt had
with him n v r-tch bearing an inscrip
tion coranu niling him for an attempt
to ram a submarine was untrue.
Captain Fryatt was known as a
"pir itr- dodgi r," on account of his
siu-cess in elcdinir Herman submarines
in the rhanntl and the North sea.
Th fi roiirn c ffii-e also has sent n
protest t,p the American ambassy ask-
inir for the immediate release 'if five
stewardesses of the '.russets who
have hei n confined in a Herman de
tention camp
PROBE OF COAL
mm ENDS
Brutal Law Violation
WASHINGTON. July . Ger
many's execution of Captain Charles
Fryatt. master of the British steam
ship Pricsi-ls. f ir an alleged attempt
to ram a submarine, is regarded in
nllieil iiuarters here as a brutal vio
lation of international law. likely to
reul in prompt retaliation measures
by Great Britain.
They contend that. If a hostile sub
marine approached the Brussels. H
ws, in oirect, an attack and that
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DLNVFIt, July :s. Invcstiration of
the bituminous cpal industry of the
country by the federal trade commis
sion was finished today when the com
missippn eonclud'-d an inipiiry here in
to the epial mining situation in the
Kocky Mountain region. Seventy-five
coal operators from Colorado, Wyo
ming, New Mexico, Utah, Montana and
Washington atteniled the hearing and
testified as to ipiestions of production,
conservation of the supply and work
ing conditions in their respective
states.
A committee of one operator from
each state was formed to confer with
the commission later, in developing
plans the commission desires to in
corporate into recommendations cov-
1 a O- p
l-iin l.'ri ,tl i ,...' - . eiinn in- eoai pipippipik ippvp u.-,it .
tack by attempting to rani, subi.it-
. A p.. . . .
OH .; , .; ', ...:" a.. was assisted by D. A. Morrow, as-
r.eprivais uy the allies, it is feared
Fplward N. Ilulrey. chairman of the
icommission, conducted the nearing,
Siqn Of End
WASHINGTON. July 2S. Hot
wi-:ithcr C'-ntlnned todav over miehl
of the cour-trv east of the Mississipoi. I "'e robbers were captured by a posse
though showers brought some relief i1""1 -y Sheriff McDaniels of Sidney.
Bank Bandits Slay Two
After Escaping With Booty
Republican A. P. Leased Wire . In response to a telephone message
StnVFV Wh Tiptir ti.o Mo- Sheriff McDaniels led a oosae in pur-
braska State Bank at Sunol, near here, "nit which surrounded and captured
was robbed toiliv of i"ii(i i. iip.! the robbers about two miles from Su-
robbers who locked Cashier W C no!. Approximately Jl.DO found in
Smith in the vault and in making ' their possession was recovered.
their escape killed Ira Paun and Paul
Cneik who tried to capture them. Later
to southern New F.ngland. New York,
the Ohio valley arid the south, and a
chilling area of high pressure from
lltiilsen bay sent tiie mercury down
ward In northern New F.ngland, hut
the weather bureau r.avH the hote wave
over the interior shows no signs of
dissipating.
They gave the names of J. W. Cornell
and II. G. Lukens.
According to the story told by Cash-
Lnkens said he lived in Denver and
Cornell claimed Insmont, Colo., as his
home.
might he followed bo a change in the
Herman submarine t.olicv. which has
.icen sa'isfactory to the United States
since the list assurance that merchant
ships would not be attacked without
warning or wilhiut provision for
saf-ty of passengers and crews.
SIX DIE IN AUTO CRASH
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DETROIT. Julv 28. Six persons
were instantly killed this afternoon
nea- the village of Wayne, Kj miles
west of Detroit, when tile automobile
they occupied was struck by an In
ter urban car.
sistant chairman, and u. H. I-.nglanit,
coal expert for the commission.
work of anarchists.
Movements of W. K. Billings, an
ex-convict, in custody, during the
morning of the preparedness parade,
were investigated and it was found,
according to the police, that he was
in touch with Mrs. Thomas Monney,
wife of a labor agitator who recently
failed In an attempt to call a strike
of the United Railroad platform men.
who are not organized. Both Mooney
and his wife are in tail.
Hillings was identified today by
James Crockett, -a former motorman,
who knows him. as a man he saw
standing on the roof of a one-story
building at Stenart and Market
streets just before the bomb exploded
there
NEAR BEER BARRED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BROWNSVILLR. Texas, July 2S.
Ml 1 everaees. commonly known a';
nur beer." or ther drinks contain-
taining two per cent alcohol were
barred from regimental exchanges in
regular and national guard troop
camps in the Brownsville district in
general orders issued today by Briga
dir General James Parker.
Another order directs the establish
ment cf restaurants at which meals,
differing from the regular arrny ra
tions, may be purchased.
JURY DISAGREES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I'FNVFU. Julv 28 The jury in the
case of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Mer
court, charged with affenses against
young girls invited to their home re
torted a disagreement today and was
dismissed, after being out about
hours
PROHIBITION IS LEADING
or
'Republican A. P. Leasea Wire
DALLAS. Jul-i 2 8. Submission
the prohibition uuestion to a general
election, b ilh.ted upon in the Texas
domecratic primary July 22. tonight
was still leading in additional returns
received during the day. Figures
compiled today showed: For sub
mission Itil.s:::!; against submission
1VJ,4:;:. a lead of 2,2tiU for the sub-lnissionists.
Say Men Are Innocent
DKNVF.lt, July 28. J. W. S. Cornell
and R. Q. Lukens were partners in a
Relief In New York
NEW YoRIC. July 28. After more
ihfin two werks of torrid weather,
v-ith greater humidity thin at any
time since IS'ifi. relief came tpidav to
ier Smith, the men entered the bank phonograph business in Denver, and it
during the noon hour. One presented I was said here, left a week ago on a
a draft on an Ohio bank and covered i business trip through Nebraska. Cor
Smith with guns while he scanned the : nell, -who Is about 3(1 years old, was
paper. After taking till the currency formerly postmaster at Insmont, Colo.,
in sight the robbers ordered Smith in- ! where he is said to have a summer
to the vault and closed the door, but , hotel. His father lives at Brazine,
failed (o turn the bolt. . i Kas.
As they left the bank and entered According to advices here tonight,
their automobile Smith emerged from the men. who were taken by a posse,
the vault and gave the alarm. An declare they are innocent. It was said
j attempt to stop them caused a fusilado they had a large sum of money in
rveltermg New Yorkers The tontr
muegv period ended with a drop of i of shots in which Paun and Cacik I their possession when they started on
imriy-sevcn r cent In Humidity and were kuicu. 'a business trip through lcnrasKa,
Working Girl Is
Declared Mother
Disputed Child
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, July 28. Margaret Ryan,
a Canadian working girl, was today
declared by Judge K. M. Landis of the
United States district court, to be the
mother of a year old child claimed also
by Mrs. Anna Dollie Ledgerwood Mat
ters and given the custody of the
infant.
Previous to the opening of the final
day of the federal court heariiiL- soils
against Mrs. Matters charging foisting
a spurious heir on the probate court
and perjury were dismissed in the
state courts.
"Where the question of maternity is
involved, the real mother will not stand
mute," Judge Landis said in announc
ing his decision.
The decision followed a sneech In
which the judge bitterly censured the
jvnsericoruia nospital at Ottawa, Ont
the sisters in charge and certain nt
tendants. It was in this hospital that
Mrs. Matters, widow of a banker,
claimed to have given birth to the
child. Certain hospital attendants at
niac ruipoi teu nor claim, men repu
diated their testimony and in later
hearings declared that Margaret Ryan
was its mother, and that it was taken
from her and given to the Chicago
wiuow.
mi FACES FIRING SQUAD
WHILE THOUSANDS LOOK ON
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LARIODO, Tex., July 28. Santiago
Ramires, a former governor of the
Mexican state of Cuahuila, and later a
V'illista general, was publicly executed
on the plaza at Saltillo, Mexico, Mon
day afternoon, according to news
reaching Nuevo Laredo tonight from
an authentic source. Ramirez, it was
tated, had left Mexico with the
dwindling of Villa's power, and had
elurned recently to offer his services
to General Carranza when war be
tween the United States and Mexico
seemed imminent.
Ten thousand persons, according to
the report, witnessed the execution.
Ramirez met death bravely, refusing
to be blindfolded when stood before
the firing sipiad.
Efforts were made by influential
Mexicans at Saltillo to save Ramirez's
life, a -300 word petition having been
sent, it is said, directly to General
Carranza, hut the latter declined to in
tervene with the military authorities.
Ramirez was a member of a prominent
Saltillo family.
Mexican arrivals from the south to
day said many former Villa officers
who accepted amnestly from the Car
ranza goternment at the time hostil
ities seemed possible, were making
their way to the border in fear for
their lives. These arrivals reported
that General Santos Coy, a former
ing Secretary Polk's note as deliv
ered to h'liseo Arredondo, Mexican
ambassador-designate, after it had
been approved today by President
Wilson and his cabinet:
"Sir: I have the honor to ack
knowledge the receipt of your com
munication of July 12th last, in which
you transcribe a note addressed to
me by the secretary of foreign rela
tions of your government, and to re
quest that you will be good enough
to transmit to him the following
renly:
" 'Mr. Secretary: I have the honor
to acknowledge receipt of your ex
cellency's note transmitted under date
of July 12 by F.liseo Arredondo, your
government's confidential agent in
Washington, informing me that your
excellency has received instructions
from the first chief of the constitu
tionalist army charged with the ex
ecutive power of the union to pro
pose tnat each of our governments
name three commissioners, who shall
hold conferences at some place to be
mutually agreed upon and decide
forthwith the question relating to the
evacuation of American forces now in
Mexico, and to dnw up and coneluda
a protocol or agr ement regarding the
reciprocal crossing of the frontier by
the forces of both countries, also to
determine the origin of the incursion
to date in order ti fix the responsi
bility therefore and definitely to set
tle the differences now pending or
those which may arise betweeji the
two countries on account of the same
or a similar reason: all of which
shail be subject to the approval of
both governments.
" 'In reply I have the honor to
state (hat I have laid your excellen
cy's note before the president, anil
have received his instructions to in
form your excellency that the gov
ernment of the United States is dis
posed to accept the proposal of the
Mexican government in the same
spirit of frank cordiality in which it
is made. This government believes,
and suggests, however that the pow
ers of the proposed commission
should he enlarged so that, if happily,
a solution satisfactory to both gov
ernments of the question set forth in
your excellency's communication may
be reached, the commission may also
consider such other matters the
friendly arrangement of which would
tend to improve the relations of the
two countries; it beinr nnderstpiod
that such recommendations as the
commission may make shall not bo
binding upon the respective govern
ments until formally accepted by
them.
" 'Should this provposal be accepted
by your excellency's government, I
have the honor to state that this
government will proceed to appoint
its commissioners, and to appoint
after consultation with your excel
lency's government the time and
place and other details of the pro
posed conferences.
" 'Accept. Mr. Secretary, the assur
ances of mv highest consideration.
" 'FRANK L. POLK,
" 'Acting Secretary of State.".
Appointment of the American com
missioners will await General Car
ranza's replv. If he approves the
suggestion that the scope of the com
mission's deliberations be enlarged as
desired bv the United States, it is
expected his note will ne aeeoro-aniej
by authorization to Mr. Arredondo to
confer with Mr. Polk as to the time
and place of the meeting.
President Wilson is understood to
have at least a score- of men under
consideration for appointment as
commissioners. Among them are
Chief Justice White, Major General
Goethals. former governor cf the
Villista who was imprisoned upon his
return to Saltillo. has escaoed anil has
armed several hundred men mid is at Canal one: Frederick Lehman, for
present in open revolt against Car- mer solicitor general, and Louis t.
ranza. (Continued on Page Three)
British Foreign Office
Has Blacklist Protest
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, July 28. The protest of
the United States government against
the British statutory blacklist was de
livered to the foreign office late to
day, but officials there not having time
to master its contents, refuse to dis
cuss it. It is known that while the
note is couched in softer language than
the mails detention documents, is
nevertheless plainly states that the
United States government cannot ad
mit the validity of the blacklist on
account of the far-reaching effect Its
ramifications will have on the trade of
its citizens.
The British government is informed
the note will be given out to the
American press on Monday, but there
is no indication as yet of the time of
its publication here. A diplomat fa
miliar with the contents of the note,
states that its publication here Is liable
to cause much surprise, as for the last
week Washington correspondents of
English newspapers have conveyed the
impression that the agitation in the
UTnited States against the blacklist has
so far ceased that there was little
likelihood of the American government
taking any action in the matter. No
later than yesterday, several papers
here stated that the agitation was so
dead that no protest would be sent.
Lord Robert Cecil, minister of war
trade, stated today that the contracts
that George W. McNear of San Fran
cisco has with Australian firms would
not be affected by the blacklist.
i
