JH 1 ffB
I ' May's fcal PnT , fjnL. glVVVvVVV HFCW EDITION I
, ! J ' XJ. Sunday Fair; Warmer Sunday; Fair
J ; ; FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER I L ' I
I Forty-sixth Year-No. 181, . OGDEN CITY, UTiUVSATURDAY EVENING JULY2Q iQifi Z : " - . ' H
1 8 1 lUKUAI ILVJClNilN, JULI 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at th. Po.tofflce. Ominnm.w .
Russians Capture 20,000 Men and 400 Officers I
111 .ei . A ' . I 1
f - ( , 1 M
Austro-Germaos Driven Back Along Kovel Line I
1 BRITISH AND FRENCH ADVANCE
AGAINST STUBBORN RESISTANCE
IPozieres and Highwood in Allies' Hands and German Efforts
to Capture Delville Wood Repulsed Numerous Aerial
Combats With Varying Successes Reported Berlin
Admits Penetration of Teutonic Lines by Rus
U sians Northwest of Lutsk But Claims Ad-
! vance Stopped West of That City.
Petrograd, July 29, via London, 3 : 50 p. m. The capture
by Russian troops in the fighting yesterday on the eastern front
included 400 officers and 20,000 men, it was officially an
j nounced today. Fifty-five Teuton guns were taken. The
I Austro-Germans were driven back along the whole "front from
; the Kovel-Rojitche railway to Brody. v
General Letchitzky, the statement adds, won an import-
ant victory south of the Dneister in the direction of Stanislau.
! . .
Berlin, July 29s via London, 5:15 p. m. After repeated
I futile attacks northwest of Lutsk, says the German official
1 statement today, the Russians succeeded in penetrating the
I German lines in the region of Tristyn, and caused the Germans
j to give up their advanced positions which they had previously
held beyond the river Stokhod.
West of Lutsk, the statement adds, the Russian attack
! has been brought to a standstill by a German counter attack.
I Berlin, July 29, by wireless to Sayville. A German
auxiliary cruiser at 1 o'clock on the morning of July 27 after
an engagement with the armed British steamship Eskimo cap-
I tured the vessel and brought her into port, according to a state
ment given out today by the German admiralty. The encoun
ter took place at a point 1 5 miles southeast of Arendal, a Nor
wegian seaport on the Skagerrak.
Petrograd, July 29, via London, 5:30 p. m. A semi-of--
f iGialiestimatejKfAeinumberv of pr.isonersHtakenbytheaRus-
sians during thefirst half of the summer campaign just closing
places the total at 350,000.
! While the British and French are
making thrusts here and there against
the German front in the Sorame reg
ion, the Russians are pressing their
I drives against Lemherg. The magni
i tude of the Russian victory is indicat
ed hy Petrograd's claim to the capture
yesterday of 65 guns and 20,000 pris
oners. i Zeppelin airships dropped 32 "bombs
i on the English east coast today. No
casualties resulted and little damage
was done.
Berlin today admits penetration of
the Teutonic lines by the Russians
northwest of Lutsk in the Tristyn
region, but declares west of Lutsk the
It Germans by a counter attack have
1 stopped the Russian advance.
On the Somme front in France the
British have advanced in the vicinity
J of Pozieres and Highwood and have
repulsed German efforts to capture
I Delville wood.
S- German Attacks Repulsed.
Paris, July 29, 12:30 p. m. Two
strong German detachments which at
tempted to reach the French, lines at
J a point west of Vermandovlller3, on
I the Somme front yesterday, were re
J Pulsed, it was officially announced 'by
1 the French war department today,
i The communication says:
"On the Somme front two strpng
enemy detachments which attempted
to reach our lines west of Vermando-
villers were repulsed by rifle fire.
) "On the left bank of the Meuse a
v' German attack upon our positions on
Hill 304 broke down under our fire.
On the right bank two German at
; tacks during the night against a re
doubt in the ravine south of Fleury
in Vn1 vol -v.t-v,,r. ln-t.no tn frlio pnpmV.
-x out luua juotjki w w.w
"Our troops -continuing their minor
operations carried portions of several
trenches north of Chapelle Sainte Fine
and in the region of the Thiaumont
work, where wo captured one mnchino
; "The artillerv duel is still lively in
e sectors of the Fumin and Chenols
woods."
Aerial Combats.
"Aviation: On the morning of July
27, a French aeroplane, piloted by
Master De Teriine, attacked a Ger
man machine flying over Chalons. The
French pilot "had just opened fire
,when the machine gun jammed. The
enemy was in full flight. Two of our
machines saw De Terllne swoop upon
liia adversarv at full speed, crash into
Jiiin aud fall with him to the ground.
The French pilot and two German air
men fall within our lines. De Terllne
had already brought down two enemy
machines and had just received the
military cross. y
I "In the region of Amiens our pursu
3tlflL nE aeroplanes fought thirty-four bat
l3KP ln tho course of which five enemy
joKft machines were forced to land In a
3B damaged condition. A sixth German
81'.- Aeroplane was brought down between
Wgm Cnalons and Roye.
pB 'On the night of July 28, our bom-
f TC.
barding squadron carried out a num
ber of operations. In all 207 shells
were dropped on bivouacs, depots and
railway stations on the enemy's
front."
In the region of tho French fortress
of Verdun two German attacks on a
redoubt in the ravine south of Fleury
were checked. The French, the offi
cial statement says, made some pro
gress in the direction of Thiaumont.
In the sector of Fumin and Chenois
woods an artillery duel continues.
Bulgarians Repulse Attacks.
Sofia, Bulgaria, July 29, via Lon
don, 3:3G p. ,m. The repulse of at
tacks on the Bulgarian lines along
the Macedonian front on July 25 was
announced today by the war office,
vhich states that counter attacks re
sulted in tho capture by the Bulgar
ians of hostile trenches.
The statement says that on July 27
there was weak cannonading along
the entire Macedonian front and
some patrol engagements which re
sulted favorably to the Bulgarians.
The statement follows:
"On the 25th an enemy battalion
provided with machine guns and sup
ported by a batter of mountain artil
lery and a battery of howitzers at
tacked our advanced detachments on
Rahovff-Shorsko front. All the at
tacks were repulsed with enemy loss
es. Our troops subsequently carried
out counter attacks and captured en
emy trenches.
"From the Twenty-fifth to the
Twenty-seventh a Serbian division
tried to occupy the heights north of
the village of Pojar but they were
thrown back to the plain after suf
fering considerable losses."
Raid on Italian Towns.
Berlin, July 29 (By wireless to
Sayville). The Austro-Hungarian ad.
mfralty in a statement today reports
a raid by Austrian aircraft on vari
ous Italian towns, as follows:
"An Austrian naval aeroplane
squadron on July 27, bombarded very
successfully railway stations, military
objects at Bari, Mola Barl, Gleylen
azzo and Molinetta with heavy, light
and indendlary bombs. Especially at
Barl destructive hits were obtained
and serious fires were caused ln rail
road buildings, factories and the gov
ernment palace. The squadron re
turned unharmed."
Petrograd, July 29 The official
war statement says. no
"Eastern front: On July 28 one of
our air squadrons consisting of ton
leronlanes made a successful raid up
on Baranovichi, throwing bombs on
the railway station buildings and rol
ling stock. A few fires were ob
served. " "The armies of General Brusiloff
having resumed the offensive have
thrown back the enemy on the whole
SSt from the Kovel-Rojitche rail
way to the region of Brody, and have
The German submarine Deutschland will make its dash from Baltimore to the open sea
under water. When well beyond the cordon oF allied warships off the Virginia capes it will
rise cautiously until the periscope is above the surface. If a careful search reveals no hostile
craft on the horizon the Deutschland will then rise to the surface and remain there until the
approach of a hostile vessel compels her to again submerge.
captured this last named place.
Enemy Thrown Back.
"Troops of General Letchitsky, by
an audacious thrust have thrown back
ihe enemy in the direction of Stani
slau to the south of the river Dneis
ter. A number of prisoners and other
booty were captured. Figures and
details are not yet available.
"An heroic Cossack division, by a
cavalry attack, surprised the natives
and took Izerzany (15 miles south
east of Stanislau).
"According to supplementary Information-
the total number of prisoners
taken up to the 28th of July amounts
to 400 officers and 20,000 of the rank
and file. The number of captured
guns is 55. In addition many ma
chine guns and large quantity of
tbootjvwhlch baveuobett)en -computed
have been captured.
Russians Continue Advance.
"Caucasus front: Our advance in
the direction of Siyas and Kharput
continues and wo have taken a num
ber of prisoners. During the night of
the 27th the Turks launched a fierce
attack on the district of Mosul but
were forced back. The enemy fled
in disorder throwing away arms and
cartridges."
Thousand Russians Captured,
Berlin. July 28, by Wireless to Say
ville. The capture of 1,000 Russians
during the fighting north of Brody is
reported in the Austro-Hungarian
headquarters' statement of July 27
which also records Russian repulses
in this district. A success for the
Austrians in the Prlslop region where
heights were captured from the Rus
sians, is announced.
Steamer Drives Off U-Boat.
Rome, Friday, July 28, 6:30 p. m.
(Delayed in Transmission). The Re
D'ltalia, a G.327 ton vessel of the Ital
ian Lloyd Sabaudo line, was attacked
by a Teutonic submarine at 9 o'clock
on tho morning of July 22 while the
steamer was on a voyage from Ge
noa to New York. The defensive with
which tho vessel is equipped were
brought into play nnd the submersible
was driven away. The steamer pro
ceeded on her way to America.
British Troops Advance.
London, July 29, 3:40 p. m- British
troops yesterday made progress to the
north and northeast of Pozieres and
near Highwood, it was officially an
nounced today. General Sir Douglas
Haig also reported that two desperate
German counter attacks against Del
ville wood were repulsed.
Rome, July 29M via London, G:30 p.
m. Austrian aeroplanes made attneks
yesterday on Bari, Mola di Barl, Mol
fctta and Otranto, seaports on tho
Adriatic. Two persons wero wounded
at Barl and five killed and 20 wound
ed at Molfetta. There wns some slight
damage to buildings at Mola dl Bari.
MENACE PUNT
Bombs Placed Beneath Presses
Damage Machinery and
Set Fire to Papers.
Springfield, Mo., July 29. Three
bombs exploded beneath tho floor of
the Menace Publishing plant at Aur
ora, Mo., at 3:50 o'clock this morning
slightly dnmaglng the publishing com
pany's plant and set fire to a mass
of copies of the Menace, an anti-Catholic
publication just off the press.
The flames were soon extinguished.
The explosions set fire to tho pa-
pers fresh from the presses but the
flames were extinguished quickly.
From the manner in which the
bombs were placed it is believed an
attempt was made to destroy all the
publishing company's presses.
Workmen began clearing away the
wreckage shortly after the explosions,
and said the presses would be run
ning again in a few hours.
This week's issue of the Menace
dated August 5, carried several elec
tion articles.
Mark Brown, editor of the Menace,
offered a reward of $1,000 for the ar
rest of the person responsible for the
, explosion.
j ''The issue for the week of August
5had been running since yesterday
at noon," sai&Mr. Brown. "We will
,inse'rt.itliqofef of rewardin-the "re
mainder of tho Issues and hope to con
tinue jnalllng this afternoon. "
Mr. Brown said the Menace had re
ceived many threatening letters, but
there had been no direct threat to des
t troy the plant. He estimated the
damage would not exceed $1,000.
The Menace is housed in a two
story brick structure, 100 by 100 feet
in dimensions.
ZEPPELIN RAID ON
Three Airships Appear, Drop
Bombs, But Cause No
Deaths.
London, July 29, 2 p. m. Three
Zeppelin dirigible balloojis participat
ed in the Zeppelin raid early this
morning on the east coast of England
Jt was officially announced this aft
ernoon. There were no casualties.
on
Execution of Captain Fryatt
by Germans Brings Op
New Controversy.
Berlin, July 29, 3:10 p. m. Via Lon
don, July 29, 10:30 a. m. The exe
cution at Zeebrugge on July 27 of
Captain Charles Fryatt of tho British
steamer Brussels after trial by court
martial for attempting to ram a Ger
man submarine, denotes a now phase
ln tho controversy over the sea rights
of merchantmen. The German govern'
ment prize regulations issued before
the beginning of the war adopted tho
principle that merchantmen were not
entitled to commit acts of war and it
threatened to treat as pirates those
attempting to do so.
Tho execution of Captain Fryatt,
German officials contend, is in ac
cord with that principle which, ac
cording to the German view, merely
extends to sea warfare the principles
already controlling franc tireur activity
on land.
It is hoped in official circles here
that this case will lead to a definitive
clearing up of the question of the
merchantmen acting at intermittent
times as war vessels
The executive council of the Ameri
can Federation of Labor has declared
in favor of amalgamating the Brother
hood of Railway clerks and tho
freight handlers.
i
Federal Judge Decides in Favor
of British Owners and
Against German Prize
Crew.
.VIOLATED, U:; .ISkW
Court Reviews Prussian
Treaty and Its Application
Vessel to Be Restored.
Norfolk, Va., July 29. Federal
Judge Waddill today decided the libel
proceedings for possession of the
captured British liner Appam in fa
vor of the English owners and
against tho German prize crew which
brought her hero.
The court held that the German
government lost all .legal claim to the
Appam and her cargo as prizes of
war when Lieutenant Berg and his
prizo crow on last February 1,
brought them into tho neutral waters
of Hampton Roads with the intention
of "laying up" the vessel indefinitely.
Prussian Treaty Does Not Apply.
The court held further that the
Prussian-American treaty of 1799, re
newed in 1828, does not apply or con
trol In the case so as to guarantee
the prize crew asylum in Ujiited
States waters.
That tho action of the German
prjse court in declaring tho Appam
a prize while the case was in litiga
tion in tho United States courts has
no effect on the jurisdiction of the
courts.
That the jurisdiction of the United
States courts in tho caso is estab
lished by a long line of precedents
Including several by tho supreme
court.
Violation of U. S. Law.
"The court's conclusion" tho deci
sion reads, "is that the manner of
bringing tho Appam into tho waters
of the United States, as well as her
presenco in thOBe waters constitutes
a violation of the sovereignty or tho
United States; that sho enmo ln with
out bidding or permission; that she is
here in violation of tho law; that she
is unable to leave for lack of a crew
which sho cannot provide, or aug
ment, without further violation of
neutrality; that in her present condl-
wuu olio? 13 wunout a lawrui nguc 10
bo and remain in the waters; that she
belongs to her owners and to all
practical purposes must bo treated as
abandoned and stranded upon our
shores, and that her owners are en
titled to restitution of their property,
which this court should award, irre
spective of tho prize court proceed
ings of the court of the Imperial gov
ernment of the German empire and It
will be so ordered."
Legal Status of Prize.
The court decided that a prize ves
sel cannot legally be brought into
neutral waters without a convoy. The
Appam was brought in under her own
steam after capture by the German
raider Moowe last January 7.
The court disposed of The Hague
treaty briefly, holding that it was
Hot applicable, Inasmuch as Great
Britain never accepted It, but pointed
out that tho attitude of the American
delegates to the convenion was shown
by their rejection of Article Twenty
three which would have guaranteed a
prize vessel asylum in neutral wa
ters. Tho Prussian treaty, however,
Ji
was given much attention by the
court.
History . of Prussian Treaty.
"The history of the adoption of this
treaty with Prussia, the decision
read, the conditions that brought
about the same ad the contemporan
eous opinions of the eminent states
men of that day, who participated in
its procurement and acceptance by
tho two countries has been gone into
fully In the effort to show that ijwas
meant to give asylum to prizes in
neutral water's; and that its particu
lar purpose was to afford the United
States an asylum for their prizes in
Prussian waters.
"Whatever may have been the view
of those representing this country at
that pme, it seems clear to the court
that no such enlarged and far-reaching
view of the treaty as is now
claimed for it can for a moment be
entertained at this stage in the pres
ent modes of warfare and the laws,
rules and regulations affecting the
neutrality of nations in existence now
and those of nearly a hundred years
ago.
Secretary of Stater Upheld.
"A careful review of the provisions
of the Prussian treaty when read in
Uie light of rulings and interpreta
tions placed upon other contempora
neous treaties" the decision contin
ued, "especially article 17 of the
treaty of amity and commerce with
France in 1778, convinces the court
that tho secretary of state's ruling is
correct and that under the same
prizes cannot be brought into the wa
ters of the United States for the pur
pose of laying up by a prize master
but only can be brought in by the
capturing vessel, or a war vessel act
ing as convoy to such prize and then
not for an indefinite period but for
the temporary causes recognized by
international law.
Court to Hear Motions.
Attorneys were notified that the
court would hear any motions they
desired to make next Wednesday at
noon. Counsel von Schilling who was
in court with Lieutenant Berg said
an appeal doubtless would be taken.
"I never dreamed," Lieutenant Berg
said, "that any grounds could be
found for taking the Appam from us."
The vessel may be restored toiler
former owners under and pending ap
ipeatfchlujtew! custody b'fa United States marshal as
at present.
Task Before U. S.
Washington, July 29 The federal
court's decision holding for the Brit
lsh owners in the Apppan 'case, con
fronts the United States government
with the task of deciding what to do
with Lieutenant Berg and his prize
crew.
Generally speaking Lieutenant Berg
and his crew ax-e regarded as part of
Germany's naval forces and if that
view were carried out to Its conclusion
they would have to bo interned for the
war with the crews of the two other
German raiders, Prince Eitel Frelde
rlch and Kronprinz Wilhelm at the
Norfolk navy yard.
State department officials expect
the court's decision will be carried
through to tho supreme court on appeal.
oo
WEATHER BUREAU
FORECASTS HEAT
Washington, July 29. Forecasts of i
the weather bureau for tho week be
ginning Sunday were announced today
as follows: ,
Plains, states and upper Mississippi
valley: Generally fair and continued
warm. There are no indications at
this time of a material change in
temperature.
Rocky mountain and plateau re
gions: Temperatures during the week
will average near seasonal normal
with general fair weather over plateau
region, and local thunder showers over
Rocky mountain region.
Pacific states: Generally fair with
temperatures somewhat below season
al average.
ou
On August 7 the new wage scale of
Frisco United Laborers' Union No. l,
providing for a minimum wago of $3
per day, will become effective.
EASTWARD HEAT I
WAVEHOLDSSWAY I
Dea&s From Heat Prostration j
in Chicago Increasing 26 '
Reported Between 6 11
a. m. and Noon.
Washington, July 29. Continuation
of the excessive heat now overspread
ing the central part of the country I
until tomorrow and Its extension to I
the north Atlantic coast states was
forecast today by the- weather bureau
From the plains states eastward the t
heat wave today held sway. Its in- (
tensity sent temperatures up ranging
from 90 to 102 degrees at various 1 :
points in those states and in the Mis- .
souri and Mississippi valleys and up-
per lake region. ! ,
Intense Heat In Chicago.
Chicago, July 29. Little relief from
the Intense heat was -held out by the
government forecaster here today. An i
area of low barometric pressure which
last night reached North and South ,
Dakota was reported in advices re-
ceived today to be gradually dying out .
and a moderation in temperature
wnicn it was tnougnt mignt reacn tms .
section Monday was reported to a I
dubious possibility.
Lake breezes tempered the heat in i .
Chicago only slightly today. The tern- "
perature at 11:30 a. m. was 94.
Deaths from heat prostration in Chi- .
cago are Increasing, 2G being report- '
ed to the police and coroner between .
C a. m. and noon today. I :
Announcement of a rise in the price '
of ice from 30 to 40 cents a hundred I '
pounds was made by several of the
smaller Chicago dealers, though tho I !
company believed to do the greatest
business said there would be no in- I 'M
crease to its customers. The small I jfl
dealers charged the necessity of tho k iJ
increase to scarcity of Ice, which has jJ
forced, some of them to seek supplies ' )
rom'6utsideUiesto-"thelaying gff"
of employes, and to their horses sue- f j J
cumbing to the heat. ! jjH
Forty-four Babies Die. ' j
Chicago, July 29. Forty-four 5 abies . '
under one year old, died ln Chicago
duriqg the 24 hours which ended at
midnight, breaking the local record.
Many of the deaths resulted ffrom the
heat, according to J. D. Robertson,
health commissioner.
At 1:30 o'clock this afternoon the
temperature was 9G. . Thirty-two
deaths from heat had been reported
since 6 o'clock this morning.
Hottest In 15 Years.
Aurora, ill., July 29. The tempera
ture here was 102 at 1 o'clock, the
hottest in 15 years. Twelve persons :
have died in this yicinity in the last '
two days from the' heat.
P.hlMron Dp nf Heat. ' '
Cleveland, O., July 29. Today was jH
the hottest day of the jear In this jH
city. The mercury reached 102 de- JM
grees at 2 p. m. and was still going IH
up. A number of babies died from
heat. Milk producers sard a milk
famine was threatened and increases ( WM
in prices of milk are in prospect. jH
Des Moines, Iowa, Juy 29. The '
heat wave continued throughout Iowa ( jH
today. Corn is suffering more and VM
more" from tho heat, according to re-
ports. Tho temperature here at noon i IH
was 9G. j
New York, July, 29. A wave of high f '
barometric pressure originating In ' '
Canada swept down from the St. Law-
rence valley yesterday and interpers-
ed an actual barrier between the heat '
wave in western states and tho At- jH
lantlc seaboard. The official tempera
ture at S o'clock this morning Vas 68 j, VM
degrees.
oo lH
The eight-hour law for city em- I j f H
ployees is being violated in tho Baltl- .
more (Md.) municipal parks, and the j fll
trade union movement is demanding J NH
tho law's enforcement. Hl
1
' I
That at this time the most prosperous period that Og-
den has ever enjoyed there are people in this community in !
want and distress. Not people who have received that position
through shiftlessness, carlessness or extravagance; but people .
of our best blood people of the heroic class who have let
fathers, sons and husbands their means of support go to j
the front to protect their country j i :
Now it's up to the people of Ogden to take care of these
dependents until such time as government relief is offered e j
What are we going to do about it? i
National Guard Benefit Fund Ogden Standard, $50.00 ,H
a month for 12 months; Dr. Kanzler, $2.00 a month for 12
months; Methodist Church, $5.00; Oracle Theatre, $5.00 a fl
month for 6 months; A. W. Meek, $1.00. . ' j H
