gut uutxr, HJuu3x7H
TEE, HOCi'E RECORD
ESTABLISHED SEP'T 17, 1870.
riOCHE, LINCOLN COUNTY, NEVADA, JULY 29, 1016.
VOLUME XLVI; NVK 43.
Primary Ele.ction Law
Declared Constitutional
The Supreme court yesterday
evening rendered its decision in the
suit to te?t the constitutionality ot
the present: irlmary law. The suit
was instituted last Wednesday an'.
on Saturday arguments were heard
4d the case submitted. The court
acted quickly on the matter and the
decision rendered last evening which
was written by Judge Coleman and
concurred in by Chief Justice Nor
cross and Justice McCarran, was re
ceived with approval by nearly all
those interested In the outcome. The
decision is more or leas populai, es
pecially in that portion where the
court says that la its opinion CD.uts
should Interpret the laws an1 not on
mere technicalities declare uncon-
gencies which may arise under the
provisions of that section, the act
would be impossible of enforcement.
Our attention has not been directed
to any specific provision of the con
stitution which thjs section violates.
If the officers and party representa
tives named In this section perform
the duties prescribed, no manifest
difficulty would arise in carrying out
the provisions of that section. We
think if not within the proper prov
ince of the court, in a proceeding of
this extraordinary character, . instl-
leglslature, and that all reasonable
doubts are determined in favor of
legislative enactments, and that
courts have nothing to do with cues- tuted virtually on the eve of the elec
tions which go to mere policy or ex
pediency of acts of the legislature.
It ia proper here to state that the ar
guments presented showed a wide
difference in opinion relative to the
constitj'.lonality of the act in ques
tion, upon what the effect would be
should certain possible contingencies
arise under the provisions of this
section.
Registered Voters
It has been contended that the
tlon, bo:'i by counsel appearing for Act Is void because the provisions of
anj sections 12 ana 14 togetner nmu
the right to vote at the primary el
ection to electors only who have duly
entered upon the register the desig
nation of their party affiliation. It is
well settled that requirements for
registration of party affiliation as a
the parlies to the proceeding
those appearing as friends of the
court.
Title of A.t
It wa3 contended, first, that the
whole act was void hecaus! the title
ontalns more than one subject, in
violation of section !. of article IV. prerequisite to the right to vote at a
Lf onr rnnBtUutlon. v think i ho primary election as a reasonable reg-
stitutlonal laws passed by the e8l9" I obiectlons to the tl:i3 of tUe act are ulation and a valid exercise of legls-
4
Intiir savB the Carson Appeal.' I
The court also went outside of
the complaint and filed and rendered
a decision on the section of the law
which applies to the registration of
voters, deciding in effect that voters
who registered for the election In
1914 will not be required to regis
ter again for 'the primary election,
and that the registry agents shall
transcribe those names to the regis
try for. the primary' election as pro
vided for in section X2, page 61, of
the primary election law. Attorney
General Thatcher had already ren
dered an opinion contrary to this
and mailed the same to all officers
having charge of elections in the
state. This was a matter that had
caused a great deal of doubt in the
minds of registry agents and voters
and settlement of it has cleared up
the situation and the result will be
a large state-wide registration. The
court did not sustain any one of the
points claimed as unconstitutional
anS raised" by "the "plaintiff, rather
giving away to an iterpretaion of
the law. Following will be found
the full text of the opinion;1;"
This is an original proceeding in
prohibition, designed to test the con
stitutionality of that certain act of
the legislature approved March 9,
1915, entitled, "An act regulating
t the nomination of candidates by po
' litical parties, providing for the
holding of primaries and conven
tions, and regulating the manner in
nominating candidates by petition."
(Stats. 1915, p. 450.)
Friends of Court Invited
The petition in this case'was filed
July 17, 1916, and an alternative
writ Issued returnable July 23d. The
importance of the case, and ' the
shortness of the time allotted for its
consideration, caused the court to
request a number of prominent at
torneys of the state to appear as
fully answered by lo-r.ie decision
of this court, particular.' the case of
State vs. State Bank and Trust Co
(31 Nev. 456.)
Apportionment
It Is also contended that section 3
of the act In question deprives pet I
tioner of his rights as an elector and
i iem'oer of the Progressive par'y be
lause that section apportions dee
gates to the state and county con
tentions on the basis of the vote
for representative in congress at the
last preceding election, and that tho
party of vhich he is a member, hat
ing had no candidate for representa
tive In congress at such election, is
therefore deprived of participating
in the primary' election. It ia con
ceded that under the provision . of
section 2 jf the act in quest' on the
Progressive' party Is within the clas
sification of parties entitled to the
privileges of the act in question. H
R. C. L., p. 1075.
is not alleged in the petition that, the
ana raised" by 'the' "plaintiff." rather representatives of the party of which
member made any attempt to avail
themselves of the privileges of the
act by complying with the provisions
of section 8, or that petitioner made
any request of the state and county
central committees of his party to
apportion delegates to the state and
county conventions as prescribed In
such section, prior to the time fixed
in such state or county central com
mittees.
Depriving Party of Privilege
Assuming, however, for the pur
poses of this decision, that the rights
of a party elector may not be cut oT
I by reason of the failure or neglect
or the duly constituted state or
county party central committees, we
shall consider whether the provls
Ions of section 3 actually have the
effect of depriving a political party ferred so ns to enable them to vol
otherwise entitled to the privileges at such primary eltnc-op. and foi
I friends of the court, for the purpose OI the at from participating in the that purpose it shall be the duty of
, i i i
- of giving the court the benefit of P"mary election. It is provided In the officer charged with the'retf:
latlve power.
Sec.' 89.
In this connection, the question
was suggested in the arguments of
respective counsel as to what regis
tration controls for use at the pri
mary election. The question Is one
of great importance and doubtless
iwlll result in future litigation unless
now determined.
Relating to Primaries
We think it clear that the specific
provisions of sections 12 and 14 re
lating to primary elections are con
trolling as to what electors are en
titled to vote at the primary election
Sec. 12 of the Act In question, in pre
scribing as to qualifications and reg
ulation of voters at the primary elec
tion, among other things provides
that the same officers who prepare
and furnish registers for general
elections shall prepare and furnish
them for use at primary elections,
and it is made the duty of these offi
tar to furnish and certify lists of
the voters entitled to vote at such
primary elections.
In providing as to how the regis
ter for such primary election shall
be made, the statute sets forth:
Registration Requirements
Said register shall be made by
taking the names of all voters on the
register used at the last general elec
tlon in the city, precinct or county.
together with supplemental registers
or additions showing all additional
registrations, changes and correc
tions made since the last general
election. The supplemental registers
to be made as follows: All persons
entitled to register or vote at any
primary election in any precinct, city
or county whose names are not upon
the register, or who may be entitled
to transfer their 'egistratiori, shall
be entitled to bo rflgUtooul or tru.is
"An Act relating to election," ap
proved on the same day as the act
ftr question, is, in the main, a mere
compilation of prior existing election
laws. Section 8 of the general elec
tion law provides: "A new registra
tion of the electors of this state shall
be made in the year of 1916 within
the dates hereinafter specified and
every two years thereafter," and ia
precisely the same provision which
was contained in the Act of 1913,
except that the figures 1916 were
substituted in lieu of 1914. The
general law regulating registration
which has been In force in this state
for many years contemplated a new
registration for the general election
every two years. By no reasonable
construction could it be said that
the provisions of section 12 of the
primary election law of 1915 and is,
except as to material modifications,
precisely the same aa section 17 of
chapter 3 of the act of 1915, p. 520,
and the same as -section 17 in the
primary election law of 1910, Rev.
Laws, Sec. 1751. It is, therefore.
clear that the legislature of 1915
id not make any change In the
prior existing law in so far as regis
tration for primary elections Is con
cerned. It is well settled that elec
tion laws are to be liberally con
strued to enable the largest partici
pation in all elections by qualified
electors. Undoubtedly all electors
whose names did not appear upon
the register "used at the last gen
eral election of 1916 prior to the
time at which registration closes for
the primary election, are entitled to
have their names placed upon the
register for such primary election
: As said by the Supreme court of
Pennsylvania In a similar case re
oently decided:
"If it were our duty to make the
law, no doubt some of Its provisions
would be written differently, but we
cannot declare an act void because
In some respects it may not meet
the approval of our judgement, or
because there may be difference of
opinion as to its wisdom upon the
grounds of public policy. Questions
of this character are for the legis
lature and not for the courts. If
the restrictions complained of In this
proceedings are found to be onerous
or burdensome, the legislature may
Earth's fiiiim
tar Gross
recent trip to the Groome difficult to make mach lmpreealoa
section the extraordinary j on it with a pick. For aboat f la-
On a
mining
phenomenon of the earth's opening
in MacCormac Lake, lying just be
low the camp of Groome, was visit
ed and Inspected by a party consist
ing of Col. Bill Wheatley, Clyde
West. W. C. Browne and B. L.
Smith. 'They found that the earth
had cracked and opened In the bed
of the lake for several miles, from
the shore toward the center, varying
In width from a few feet to 25 or 30
feet, and in depth about the same,
though the fissure must have been
much deeper when first opened, as
it has filled up some at this time.
This .extraordinary fissure ia said
to have opened up last January at
the time when some cattle men were
riding for stock and when leaving
the lake there was plenty of water
In it but after an absence of a week
or ten days they returned and found
the lake bed perfectly dry and in
hunting for a reason found the fis
sure opened to the extent aa stated.
It is a grave question now lf the
lake will hold any more water at
all, as it Is more than probable that
it will run into the crack and dis
appear for at least a long time or
until the opening has been filled up
again to the lake's level.
' The -cause of this opening Is sup
posed to be of seismic nature rather
than the settling of the surface aa
the bed -adjacent to the crack or In
the lakt proper v shows no other
signs of 1 disturbance and : remains
perfectly live! and aa smooth as a
floor, and exceedingly hard, it being
ches as shown by the edges of tho
fissure, the surface is covered-with
a fine silt probably iiapragaatad
heavily with alkali, salt aad other
surface substances similar to other
lakes of that section; while below
this 6 inch surface layer, as tar
down as it could be inspected, a
grayish clay mixed here aad there
with narrow layers of small gravel.
washed in no doubt ia the masy
years of Us forming. Location ao-
tlces were posted on the crack, with
the idea of its being used sooaer or
later as the subway for Groome
City which will unquestionably be
located at or near this beautiful '
playa. . .-
It will afford the population great
sport in auto races as one ess make
60 miles the hoar vary easily and
being of such large area S or I times
around would equal a huadred miles
and as Just a little appetiser before
dinner one could reel off a few laps
with great Joy.
In the ages to come the qaestloa
would naturally arise whether this
great fissure will he filled with a
"Secondary enrichment" ' of some
new metal probably called after that
prominent man "Bryanlte" or will
It bejust ordinary mack of ao value.
Who can tetir It's certainly well
worth seeing aad people going there
now can only , take ap the extensioa
of the crack la the hope that It will
continue ia line . with the1 gsaeral
strike aad thus continue the "sub
way." ' V
DELEGATES FOR THE CONVENTIONS
Today Is the last date for the fil
ing of nominations for delegates to
be appealed to for such relief or for the respective state and county con-
such amendments, as the people may Mentions of the Republican and Dem-
think proper , to demand."
Winston v. Moore, 244 Pa. St.
447; 91 Atl. 590; 37 Ann. Cas.
1915 C.
Application for the peremptory
writ is denied and the proceedings
are dismissed.
oocratic parties. Indications at this
writing are that a few of the voters
of a few precincts have not availed
themselves of the opportunity to be
represented in the county conven
tions by filing nominations for dele
gates and therefore will vote only
for the candidates for the delegates
XT.. , ' . 1 1
iru cuobs at-large on August 8th, on which
The employes of the Washington date the primary election will be
navy yard have reason to be thank- held. The delegates-at-large, ac
f ul to Senator Pittman, of Nevada, cording to the provisions of the new
for his skillful and successful fight primary law, will be entitled to
to obtain for them and the workmen Beats ln the county convention of the
of all other yards, gun factories, ar
senals and naval stations a full
month's vacation with full pay.
Other civil employes of the gov
ernment have been receiving 30 days
respective parties, as well as ln the
state convention. The Socialist party
has filed no candidates for delegates
to either the state or county conven
tion; hence there will be no Social-
leave with pay and there was every lst Primary held In this county.
their several opinions, ln order that
a correct conclusion might be reach
ed. In view of the fact that peti
tioner delayed his objections to the
act until so short a time before the
election provided for In the act
sought to be annulled, and ln view
of the fact that the petition does not
show that petitioner sought to se
cure any rights alleged to be guar
anteed to him and infringed by the
act in question, through the medium
of authorized representatives of his
party or by application in any way
section 9 of the act that 'This act tration of - voters of Bitch precinct,
shall "be liberally construed, lo ' the city or county, to keep his office open
for at least fifty das prior to ten
days immediately preceding sucu pri
mary election." , (Stats. 1915, p.
457.)
Reverses Previous Decision
It is clear to our mind that under
the provisions of the section quoted,
all voters whose names appeared on
end that the real intent of the elec
tors shall prevail." As before point
ed out, section 2 of the act gives the
Progressive party the positive right
to proceed "to elect delegates to par
ty conventions as hereinafter pro
vided." -If we were to assume that
section 3 is unconstitutional, and so
hold, such holding would not des- the register used at the last general
froy the validity of other provisions election in any city, precinct, or
of the act which could stand Inde- county, are, by the terms of the act,
pendent of said provisions. It is the regarded as duly registered electors
to other legally constituted author!- contention of counsel for respondent for the primary election conteniplat-
tles, this court might well be Justl- tnat tne provision in question Is dl- ed by the law and their names are to
fled in refusing to consider any ques- rectory, merely, and not binding up- be certified by the proper officers as
tions presented under the extraor- Pn a Pay otherwise entitled to the having been duly copied from the
dinary writ prayed for, which writ benefits of the act, but which can registration lists of the last general
rests in the sound discretion of the not comply with this basis of appor- election. , .
court. i tionment. Authorities have been cit- In addition to this register of vot
' I ... . I
Rights of Progressives ! ea which seem to sustain the view, ers a supplementary register is pro-
For the purpose of avoiding pos-MMorrow V. Wipf. 115 N. W. 1126.) vided for by the section, and this
sible future litigation, the court will As the duly authorized representa- supplemental register makes provl-
determlne certain of the contentions tIvea petitioner's party, so far as sions for the registration of any vot
made by petitioner which bear upon appears from the petition, did not, ers entitled to register in any pre
hls rights as a member of the Pro- within the time prescribed by the cinct, city or county, whose name is
gresBive party. Certain other-ques- provisions of section 8 ', seek to pre- xnot upon the register of the last gen
tions in which petitioner's rights are serve the rights of their party by eral election in such city, precinct or
.only in common with that of all elec- any other reasonable method of ap- county. The registered voters whose
tors generally, will not be determin- portionment, we can not see where names appear upon the certified lists
ed In this proceeding. v petitioner is entitled, particularly in as. copied from the register of the
We may promise that we will say I thls character of proceeding, to ques- last general election, together with
in discussing the questions deemed Uon the validity of this particular the names that appear upon the sup
important to be determined or refer- Provision of the act. plemental register, constitute the
red to, by referring to the well set- No Violation of Constitution list of voters qualified to vote at the
tied proposition of law that all pre- It is contended by petitioner that primary election
sumptions are in favor of the con- section 11 of the act renders the en
stitutionallty of acts passed by the tire act void because, under contln-
reason why the mechanics and other
laboring men in the government
plants and factories should receive
equally fair treatment.
it is lqie ior tne government or
its representatives to talk about so-
social Justice to workmen in private Democratic convention are out and
plants unless the Federal authorities out Ior "man
are willine to set an examnle. n the Republican side there will
Xo Change In Law
The general election law entitled
Apparently Patrick McCarran, who
aspires to receive the Democratic
nomination for United States sena
tor, has conceded Lincoln county to
Key Pittman, his opponent. The
nominees for delegates to the state
Workmen . In private plants re-
be ' a contest. Lincoln county will
ceive much higher wages than those nave two delegates to the Republl-
n the government yards and factor- can state convention and four per
ies. This has been shown repeated- 8ons nave med tne,r na" with the
ly by the arguments the government county clerk, , M. L. Lee. of Pioche
has had to make to keep its employ- and Henry Mathews of Panaca, are
ees from responding to the greater 8UDPosed t0 favor Judge Norcross
financial inducements of private mu- ror the nomination for United States
nition makers. senator, as nrst cnoice, ana A. H
Labor has its false and its real Howe aa Becond choice; while Ellas
friends. Senator Pittman hv nv. ann oi fiocne ana Patrick Devlin
, Caliente (2 to be elected) B. N.
Mitchell, Geo. K. Riding.
Panaca Wm. H. Edwards.
Jack Rabbit H. W. Turaer.
Eagle Valley Sam Hollinger.
Spring Valley Jake Stutzenaeg-
gar. : . . . '
Atlanta I. N. Garrison.
Lake Valley C. vcole.
DEMOCRATIC. PARTY
Delegates to State (oavejon (I '
to be elected); ; , ; ., Is
W. T. Stewart, Sr., Alamo; Geo.
M. Senter, Caliente; Henry H. Lee,
Panaca. i v
Delegates to County Convention:
Pioche (5 to be elected) Wilma
B. Warren, Betty R. Kendall, B. J.
Deck, W. E. Harrison, Edwin Price.
Caliente (3 to he elected)' Haas
Olson, J. A. Denton, John Conaway.
Panaca (2 to elect) Phil Mat
hews, Ernest Gentry.
Alamo Omer Stewart.
Hiko James Castle. ;
Atlanta S. D. White.
Jack Rabbit L. F. Peer. -.
Eagle 'Valley Joe Hollinger.
Spring Valley Joe Blair.
Clover Valley Lamond Woods.
It will be noted that no candi
dates for delegates have been filed
by the new women voters except in
Pioche, where Wilma Warren aad
Betty R. Kendall, aspire to go to the
Democratic County Convention.
May Not Be Represented
coming the technical and strategic
efforts to block his amendment for
the benefit of the workers in the
government yards and plants, has
shown that he la one of the friends
of Rose Valley are supposed to be
favorable to Sam Piatt as their first
choice and Judge Norcross Becond
In any event, they are not Inclined
to cast their, vote in the state con
of labor. Although there is no navy entlon for the man from Goidfleld.
yard, in hia own state, he has shown Following Is a list of the candl-
t hat! he believes' ln uniform and dates delegate filed ip to the
square treatment to labor, whether tlme of going to Press: :
employed privately or by the gov- REPUBLICAN PARTY
eminent, either in his own Btate or Delegates to State Convention
In the National Capital. (two to be elected) :
The vacation given to the em
ployes will make them better work
men. It will give them a better
chance to enjoy the fruit9 of their
labor, increasing their efficiency and
raising the standards of health and
happiness. Washington Post.
E. Kahn, Pioche; M. L. Lee,
Pioche; Henry Mathews, Panaca;
Patrick Devlin, Rose Valley.
. Delegates to County Convention:
Pioche (3 to be elected) T. C
Stephenson, W. W. Stockham, Judge
J. M. Breeze. '
No filings for delegates to the Re
publican county convention have
been reported at this writing from
Alamo, Hiko, Elgin, Clover Valley
and Deer Lodge. The Democrats
have no filing from Elgin and Deer
Lodge. Hence, indications are that
these precincts will be without rep
resentatives in the county conven-'
tlon. The blank forma required
were filled out and sent la by one
Democrat and one Republican at
Deer Lodge, but lacking the ac
knowledgement of an officer before
whom an oath may be taken, they
were not , accepted at the county
clerk's office.
:
METAL MARKETS 4
(Salt Lake Smelter Settlemeata for
- Thursday) f
SILVER ... .............08 S-4
COPPER (cathodes) ....... 3X9
LEAD ' 4H
