i
2jabonS;Ddv(xafe
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
F
Vol. IV. No. 15
CINCINNATI, OHIO, JULY 29, 1916
One Dollar a Year
INDEPENDENT
All the Old Officers Elected
For Another Year by the Building Trades Council. Tom Anderson, Phil.
Gasdorf, and Ed. O'Connor Elected Board of Trustees.
The Masonic Temple Building of Covington Declared Unfair to Union Labor All Crafts
Will be Taken Off Unless the Mater is Straightened Oat.
jMgll
Joseph A. Cullcn,
President Building Trades Council.
The regular meeting of the Building
Tiades Council was calledtp order,, by
President' Cullcu. " fv- -r
ThCrninutes of the previous meeting
ere read 'and adopted.
, Hoard of Trustees reported progress.
' The report of the Labor Day Commit
tee was read and adopted.
The minutes of the Hoard of Business
Agents, was read and concurred in.
The Hoard of Business Agents repot t
de to the Council that they hail inves
tigated the case of the Masonic Tannic
of Covington, Kentucky, and find that '
the electrical work and heating was both
done by unfair firms and for that rea
son they suggest that the Masonic Tem
ple be placed on the unfair list and all
other crafts working will be taken off
the work.
Brother Fischer stated that the com
mittee had called on Mr. Williard, who
referred them to Mr. Daly, building in
spector of Covington, and J. Mason
Howk, who had charge of the work,
and that these gentlemen promised to
have the The Interstate Electric anil
Sales Company and the Fennel Heating
unionize their shops or get off the job
within the next 21 hours.
The Chair announced that the election
of officers was the next order of busi
ness. The secretary read the nomina
tions, and upon motion the secretary was
instructed to cast the vote of the Coun
cil for Jos. A. Cullen for president. The
same course was pursued in the follow
ing cases: Phil Fischer, vice-president;
Fred llock, recording secretary and bus
iness agent ; Jos. Noldc, financial secretary-treasurer!
James Mcllale, conduct
or; Geo. Koch, scrgeant-at-arms.
The election of three trustees was the
next order. There were four candidates
Thos, Anderson, Phil Gasdorf, Ed
O'Connor and Geo. Vogel, resulting in
Fred llock,
Business Agent.
'lBIlBIHf 'wv wp 9HV z.
- JOHN J. WENNER
Captain of (lie First Ward, who is a Candidate for He-election.
Mr. Wcniicr is opposed by .los. Humphries, tin candidate of F.d Ivel
lon, who is ambitious to again get control of the ward.
Mr. Wemier lias always been a staunch ICepiibllran and a real friend
of organized labor. He has gone out of his way to do favors that would
advance oigani.cd labor's cnusV whenever lie could; and as deputy
slierilf his kind and considerate treatment of the union painters during
their si months' stay in the county jail, has endeared him in the hearts
of all who toil.
The Labor Advocate would ask all members of oigiinled labor that
live in the First Ward to vote for John J. Weniier for captain, and we
believe they will advance their own interests by doing; so.
A vote for Wenncr is a vote for union labor.
the election of O'Connor, Anderson and
Gasdorf.
All trades reported business good.
The Chair announced that the annual
banquet would be held next Thursday
night, and urged all members to be
present.
There being no ex-prcsident present,
Iiro. Kobt. Sickman was A requested to
install the new officers, which he did in
first-class shape.
There being no further business be
fore the Council, the meeting adjourned
to next Thuisday night.
WALK-OUT TIIKKATKXKI).
Official of Teamsters' Union, Local
ICO, said last Thursdav night unless
team owners, not members of the Cin
cinnati Team Owners' Association, grant
to members of the union lij Jul) 2." the
same conditions as has been granted bj
the association, their drivers maj go
on stiike Copies of the agreement en
tered into between the union the Cin
cinnati Team Owners' Association have I
been sent to the independent team own-'
crs, union officials said.
lames .Mcllale,
Conductor Building Trades Council.
COVINGTON EMPLOYEES
RATIFY AGREEMENT
Conductors and motormen held a
meeting at Knights of Pvtluas Hall,
i ourtn street, Covington, last Thursda
moinmg, and nitilied a three- ear agree
ment between the South Comgton and
Ununnati Street Railway Compan and
'the Street Car Men's Union, eftcctive
August -', 1U10, the date on which the
former three- ear agreement expires,
liach of the 47 sections contained in
. the agreement was acted upon scparatelj
I 'the principal point of contention was
m the section ot the agreement by which
substitutes will enter the service at 22
tents an hour pay and a guarantee of
i 210 boms' work each month. New men
I fought or a longer guarantee, but older
empioves approved tlie section.
I n 'Ipcs thnn nine nor more than ten
hours is to constitute a dav's work. The
i.rrponimt nrmidos a slidmc wage scale
oi '.i0 cents an hour, according to length
of service. Minor changes were made in
working conditions. .
i I... fminlmes' committee, consisting
lot C hrU time. John. Pfeifer.JJaul .K.
'Deck, Joliiruayiioiy uuaries -v-unnums
and Harry Carter, worked on the agree
ment for several months.
I'KKIilcr STIUKK VOTE.
Ollicials of Katlway Hrothorhoods,
lAliict Autliorl.ation, Tliey Say.
pw York. Tulv 20. Officials of the
n.. ,!.. iinmK nt Wnilwnv Fncineers. I
I'iremeii, Conductors and 1 rammen in
the Last toda predicted that the vote
on tlie question ot calling a strike for
shorter hours and better pay would be
overwhelmingly in favor of a strike.
L'hc ollicial count of the vote will be
gin beie August 1. Ballots arrived at
brotherhood Headquarters here today in
big bundles. .
The Conference Committee probably
will be authorized to demand an eight
hour and time and a half pay for over
time, the ollicials said.
SKKK F1VK-CKXT KA1SH.
Employes of l'lttsburt; Also Demand
Abolition of White Uniform.
Pittsburg, Pa., July 20. Eight hun
dred and htty street sweepers, teamsters,
park laborers aim cnauueurs, cmi1"")
by the city, who have been organized
into a local union of the American bed
cration ot Labor, struck today for an
increase in wages and the abolition of
white uniforms for sweepers.
Their statement to the public says
they now receive an average of 2.40
for an eight-hour day and work only
21)0 ilays in the year. They ask an in
crease of five cents an hour.
teoon after the men went out the citv
administration made an appeal to the
duvers of street flushing machines to
keep them m operation uecause oi uik
presence of infantile paralysis. The men '
are expected to give their answer scon
XOJiAX HILL C.KTS SK'fHACK. I
Washington. The Nolan ?3-a-da
minimum wage bill received a setback
The bouse, which was to have devoted
this dav to consideration of bills on the i
so-called unanimous consent calendar,
adjourned after a short session on ac- I
count of the death of Congressman ,
Moss. 1 he Nolan bill is on the calendar
and Speaker Clark bad promised to
lccoguizc Congressman Xolan, who, to
gethci with other members of the labor
group, attempted to secure another dav
lor the unanimous consent business, but
this was objected to by Congressman
Mann, Republican leader.
The bill now goes over until next
month, when an attempt will be made to
secure its consideration.
Phil Fischer.
Vice-PresidentBuilding Trades Council.
BUILDING PERMITS
"l&si3eiceEasrside'"Banimore ave
nue, south of Yeast street: Owner, Leo
nard Rebman, 1706 Denliam street.
Hospital Addition Bctts and Linn
streets. Owner, St. Mary's Hospital;
Sister Superior, in charge, on premises.
Postoffice Substation College Hill.
Owner, I. F. Carey, Emery Hotel. Les
see U. S. Government, Treasury Depart
ment, Washington, D. C.
Club-house Pioneer street. Owner,
Catholic Young Men's Association, care
Walter S. Schmidt, 134 E. Fourth street.
$200,000.
Residence 3330 Evanston avenue
Owner, Herbert L. Pachoud Company,
324 First National Bank Building. Also
residence, 1B90 He.vvitt avenue.
Office and Shop Building 331 E. Third
street. Owner, V. T. Bock, 331 E. Third
street.
Residence North side Wellwood ave
nue, Winton place. Owner, G. A. Peters
Company, Mercantile Library Building.
Residence Price Hill. Owner, E. E.
Acombe, Mercantile Library Building;
residence, Pleasant Ridge.
Residence 3920 Briggs place. Owner,
W. C. Harper, 2715 Markbreit avenue.
Residence 102S Clarevvood street.
Owner, Herbert L. Pachoud, 324 First
National Bank Building.
BLACKSMITHS TO CELEBRATE
The International Brotherhood of
Blacksmiths and Helpers will give a
grand outing Saturday, August 19, 191G,
at the Lagoon. This will be a big af
fair and tickets can be secured from
any blacksmith.
,G
Joseph Xolde,
Treasurer Building Trades Council
