THE COLFAX CHRONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 1901
A Democratic journal, devoted to Local and tcneral News, Literature, Science, igriculture, Etc.
VOL. XL COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, JULY 29, 1916 NUMBER 41
Oicial Proceedings of the Grant Par
ish School Board.
Colfax, La., July 22, 1916.
Pursuant to adjournment on July 8,
1916, the board of school directors of
the parish of Grant, La., met in legal
session to consider the question of fi
nancing the schools of the parish.
The board was called to order by the
president with J. H. McNeely, E. A.
Wall, T. C. Lincecum, N. S. Roberts
and M. E. Jackson present; A. W.
Stewart and I. J. Rhinehart absent.
A quorum being present the board
proceeded "to transact the following
business:
The following resolution was offered by N. 8.
Roberts. who moved its adoption:
Whereas there has been a request made of
this school board by somle of the tax-payers of
ward two. askiymg that a special election be or
dered In and for the said ward, at which shall
be senbminted the following proposition, to-wit:
PROPOSITION.
To levy a tax of five mills for five years on all
property in ward two. Grant parish. Louisinana,
and that fractional part of school district No. 6
located partly In ward 3, subject to taxation,
anuualle, for a period of five years. the funds
thus derived to be apportioned according to
the assessment valuations of the original
school district sub-divisions to such original
school district sub-divisions for use in the origi
nal school district sub-divlsluos of said ward 2
and that fractional part of school district No. 6 I
located in ward 3. sald funds to be used for get
oral educational purpose.
Whereas, in the opinion of this board such
special election is necessary and advisable.
Be it resolved by the Board of School Direc
tore of the Parish of Girant. Louisiana, as foli
lowe:
Section I. That a spelal election re and the t
samne Is hereby ordered to be held in ward two
and that fractional part of school district No. 6
located in ward three. Grant parish. La.. on
TLUEEDAY. SEPT. 5. 1916.
at which time shall be submitted the following
proposition, to-wit:
PR.OPOSITION
to levy a spelal tax of five mills on the dollar
on all property in ward two and that fractional
part of school district No. 6 licvated in ward 3.
Grant parish. Louisiana, subject to State taxa
tion. annually. for a period of five years, begin.
nlnM with the year 1911 and ending with the year
11120. both years nclusilve, the funds thus derived
to be apportioned according to the alemessments
of the original school district sub-divisions to
such original school district sub-divisions for
in the original school district sub-divisions t
rand that tractional part of school
distric in ward three, said funds
to be uneed for g eYatlonal purposes. r
Section 2. That the se of this board be c
and he Is hereby instructed to havnLgipared for
use at said election a bufllcientnumber of ballot r
on each of which shall be printed the proposition f
mentioned in Section 1 of this resolution, and in I
the following form:
PROPOSITION.
Prorpoaltion to levy a special tax of
five mills on t:,e dollar on all proper- YE
ty in ward two and that fractional
part of school district No: locawted
in ward three, Grant parish, La.. sub
ject to State taxation. annually, for
a period of five years. beginning with c
the year 1916 and ending with the
year 19,0. both years inclusive, the
fuoonds thus derived to be apportioned
according to the assessments of the
original school district sub-divisions 10
to such original school district sub
divisions for use in the original rbhool
district sub-divisious of said ward
two and that fractional part of scbool
district No. 6 located in ward three.
said funds to be need for general edu- a
cational purposes.
Taxable valuation $ ........ .............................
Signature of voter ........................................ t
NOTICE TO VOTER.
To vote in favor of the proposition submitted
on this ballot place a t 1) mark in the square af
ter the word Yes. and to vote against the propo
sition place a similar mark in the square after I
the word No.
And the secretary of this board be and he Is
hereby Instercted to have prepared for use at c
the said election all the necessary ballot boxes, t
tally sheets, Ilst. of voters, assessed valuation
of property and compiled statements of voters
ia number and amount.
Section 3. That the voters if that fractional
part of school diitrict No. 6 located In ward 3.
shall hare the right to participate and vote at
the Bruce precinct In the said ward 2.
Section 4. That the polling places for the said e
election shall be at Polhock., Bruce, Simma and
Bagdad prelncts, and the following shall serve
as commissioners and clerks of election:
Pollock-O J. Hattaway. W. P. Guyne; and
W. H1. singley comumlssionrs; Fulton O'Qulnn, I
dterk.
IBrace--Overton Thompson. R. B. Roach and
Elisha Lewis. conmmisioners; I). L. NugSent.clerk. I
Simm--W. E. (bandler. John Curry and Ben
Oarllngton. commislioners: J. II. Coilson, clerk.
Baedad--M.c'. Bckner, John M. Anthony and
J. L. Gray. commisioners; L. E. Haduot, clerk.
The said delection shall be held under the State
law applicksble thereto.
Section 5. That the prekident of this board Is
hevreby loatroacted to give notice of the special I
electionll herein ordered by his proclamnatlon, to
be publlhed accarding to law. and in the said
proclamnation he shall announce that at 11 0'
elock on Sept. 5.1916. this board will meet at
their oUce at the court house at ('olfax, Grant
parish. La.. to open the ballot box, examnlue
and count the ballots In number and amount.
examine and canvas the returne, and declare
the result of the election.
The motion made by N. S. Roberts for the
adoption of the above rewolution was seconded
by T. C. Lineum. and being placei before the
board by the chair it was unanlmiiusly adopted.
all of the mmcbers present voting in the afmrma
tive, and the chair announced It carried.
J. H. McNEKKI.Y,
J. N. WARNER. Prmsident.
Secretsry.
The following ordinance was introduced.
and being duly setconded. it was unani
mnously adopted to wit:
AN ORIINANCE
To group district 13. 14 and 15, all sitl
ated in Grant Parish. La.. and to dis
tribute all ftunis derived fronm sp.iatl
school tax elections in said grouped
districts according to the original ter
ritorial subdivisions heretofore existing.
In accordantr e with the assessment of
said district.
ie it ordained by tho, the Parish Roard
of chbool Directors of Parish of Grant.
Is.. in legal session convened:
Section One. That school districts Nos.
13, 14 and 15 all situated in Grant Parish, ]
............
r- l.a;., hM and they are hle-reby groupedl ilnit
Orne district to be known as school district
13-14-15.
Section Two. Be it ordained. etc. That
all funds derived from secial school tax
elections which may hereafter hie held and
of ordered in said grouped district shall he 1
al ppotiloned therein according to the as
,a1 sessmenits of the original territorial sub- I
fi. divisions to such original sudivision for i
use in the original subdivision.
Section Three.: Be it further ordained.
ietc.. That all ordinances or tarts of ordli
nances contrary to or in conflict with this
k. ordinance are hereby repealed, and that I
this ordinance shall go into effect immn,
dliat.ly upon its pasage.
V. Unanimously adopted this .luly 22, 1I1Et
The following resolution was offer red by
Ei'. A. Wall and seconded by N. S. RIoh
rd erts, who moved its adoption.
Whereas, there has been a request
1g made by the property tax payers of
school districts Nos. 13. 14 and 15. ccnsti
y tuting grouped district 13-14-15, eligible
to vote at such election, asking that a
special election be ordered in and for said
of district, at which shall be submitted the
of following proposition, to wit:
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property in Schol District
all No. 13-14-115. Grant Parish, La.. subject
to state taxation, annually. for a psriod
of five years for general educational pur
all poses.
And. whereas, in the opinion of this
18, hoard such special election is necessary
.6 and advisable,
Be it resolved by the Parish Board of
School Directors of the Parish of Grant.
Id La., as follows:
to Section One. That a special elec-tion he
pal and the same is hereby ordered to be
al held In school district No. 13-14-15. Grant
Parish. Iau.. on
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1916.
12 at which shall be submitted the following
.6 proposition, to wit:
. To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property in school dis
trict No. 13-14-15., Grant Parish, La.. sub
ch ject to state taxation, annually, for a pe
rhal of five years for general educational
purposes.
Section Two. That the secretary of this
Li board be and he is hereby instructed t,
have prepared for use at said special .lec
he tlion a sufficient number of halots, on t
each of which shall be printed the propo
sition mentioned in section one of thir
6 resolution, and in the following form:
PROPOSITION
Proposition to levy a special YES
ag tax of five mills on the dollar
on al property subject to state r
taxation in school district No.
13-14-15. Grant Parish, La., for l t
ar a period of five years, begin- NO
,al ning with the year 1916 and
ending with the year 1920, both
years Inclusive. for general edu- I
cational purposes.
In Taxable valuation......................... .....
ar Signature of voter....... ................. ..............
ed NOTICE TO VOTERS
,t To vote in favor of the proposition on I
this ballot place a (X) mark in the square I
after the word "Yes", and to vote against
or it place a similar mark in the square af- I
no the the word "No". s
ol And the Secretary of this board he and
he Is hereby instructed to have prepared
dm for use at said special election all the I
necesary ballot boxes, tally sheets, lists
be of voters, assessed valuation of property. .
or and compilled statement of voters in
number and amount.
Section Three. That the polling place
ai for the said special election shall be at a
in Fish Creek old school house and M. H.
Nugent, W. J. Rambo, Jr.. and George
Ober are appointed commissioners and .1. t
L Kent clerk of election to serve thereat. t
The said election shall be conducted J
under the laws of the state applicable r
thereto. I
Section Four. The *President of this
board is hereby instructed to give notice t
of the special election herein ordered. by t
his proclamation to be published accord- e
ing to law: and in the said proclamation
he shall announce that at eleven o'clock f
a. m. on September 6, 1916. this Lbrd I
will meet at the court house at Colfax.
Grant Parish, La.. and in open session
proceed to open the ballot box, examine i
and count the ballots in number and
amount, examine and canvass the returns
and declare the result of the election.
The above resolution was adopted unan
Imously, all the members of the board
hereinbefore named voting in favor
thereof.
J. H. McNEELY.
President.
J. N. WARNER,
i- Secretary.
'- The following resolution was offered by
er M. E. Jackson and seconded by N. S.
Roberts., who moved its adoption: t
i Whereas,. There has been filed with this
board a written request by the taxpayers
at of Clear Creek District No. 6, eligible
es, to vote at such election, asking that a
t, special election be ordered in and for
said district, at which shall be submitted
the following proposltlon, to wit:
PROPOSITION
.al To levy a special tax of five mills omn
3 the dollar on all property in Scihool Dis
trict No. 5. Grant Parish, La., subject to
at state taxation, annually, for a period of
five years, for the purpose of building and
Id equipping school houses in said district.
ad And, whereas, in the opinion of this
board such special election is necessary
we and advisable, t
Be it ordained by the Parish Board of
nd School Directors of Grant Parish, la., in I
n legal session convened:
Section One. That a special election ie
and the same is hereby ordered to be held
nd in School District No. 5, Grant Plarlsh. i
k. Ila.. 6n
STUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 5. 1916.
at which shall be submitted the follow
Sing proposition, to wit:
ad To levy a special tax of five mills on
. the dollar on all property in School Dis
,. trict No. 5. Grant Parish. La., sulject to
state taxation, annually for a period of
five years. for the purpose of building
l* and equipping school houses in said dis
Lai trict.
to S.ctlon 'Two. That the SecretaryT be
and Ihe is hereby instructed to have pre
pared for use at said special election a
t sufficient number of ballots, on each of
at which shall be printed the propositlon
at mentioned in section one of this resolu
tion, and in the following form.
S PROPOSITION
at. Proposition to levy a special YES
ire tax of five mills on the dollar on
all property subject to state tax
ation in Clear Creek School Dis
,e trict No. 5, Grant Parish. Lou
l islana, for a period of five
be years, beginning with the year NO
d. 1916 anti ending with the year
1920I. bth years inclusive, for
as the purpose of building and
equipping school houses in said
('lear Creek District No. 5.
Taxable rvnlastion............. .....
.lignatura of voter.................. ... ....
NOTICE TO VOTERS.
'd To vole in favor of the proposition sub
Smittd on this ballot pl:ace a (X) mark in
the lquare after the word "Yes". atnd to
vote against it place :1 similar nlmark in
tu- thI square after the word "No".
s- And the -cretarv of this board Ile andl
ii he is hereby instructed to have ItretpaiP1
ed for use at said special eli'ction all t hi
r- necessary iallot boxesr, tally sheets, list
ig. of voters, assessed valuation of propert.
of and eimpilel statemrtnt of voters in num
her and amount.
rid Section Three. That the polling plice
st, for the said special election shall te at
Antioch Church in said district No. ..
s. and L. A. Paul. E. T. Nugent and I H
ih, Squlres are appointed commissioners, and
IR. (. Nugeint cldek of election to serve I
thereat.
The :aid election shall Ie conducted un
der the laws of the. state applicabler
therto.
Section Four. The President of this
boa rd is hereby instructed to give notice
of the sin'ial election herein ordered, by
his proclanmation to be published acord
ing to lan; and in the said proclamation
hen shall ;nnoluncen. that at eleven o'clock
a. in. on Senpt1entber 6. 1916, this board
will nolt at the. 'court hounnse at Colfax.
Ur:nllt Parish. Il,a., and in ope'n session
proc'eed to open the ballot isnx, examuine
and count the ballots in number and o
amoll'ulnt . examllline and canvass the returns
and declare the result of the election.
Thie albove resolution was adopted t
unnanimnously,. all the nimenthers of the a
hboard hereinefore namted voting in favor
thereof.
J. 11. McNEELY. L
President.
J. N. WARNER.
Secretary. a
The follow!ng ordinance was introduced.
and being duly seconded, It was unani
mousl adopted, (o wit:
AN ORDINANCE a
To group Districts 8. 10 and 30, all situ- p
ated in (Grant Parish, la., and to dis
tribute all funds derived from special
school tax elections in said grouped
districts ancording to the original ter
ritorial subdivisions heretofore existing
in accordanice with the assessment of
said district. p
It. it ordained by tile Parish Board of
Schnsdl Dir-ectors of Parish-of Grant. La.. t
in le.Gni session conveyed; t
Section ()One. That school districts Nos. e
t. 10 and 3ln, all situated in (Grant Parish, e
La.. ben and they are hereby grouped into a
one district to be known as School Dis- r
trict 8-10-30.
Section Two. Be It ordained, etc. That I
all funds derived from special school tax a
elections which may hereafter be held and F
ordered in the said grouped district shall t
Ie apportion.ed therein according to the 2
asnsessments of the original territorial p
subdivisions to such dtiginal subdivision
for use in the original subdivision.
Section Three. Be it further ordained, I
etc. That all ordinances or parts of or
dinances contrary to or in conflict with
this ordinance are hereby repealed, and
that this ordinance shall go into effect
immediately upon its passage.
Unanimously adopted this July 22. 1916.
The following resolution was offered by t
T. C. Lincecum and seconded by E. A.
Wall. who moved its adoption.
Whereas, there has been a request
made by the property tax payers of
Schol Districts Nos. 8, 10 and 30, consti- h
tuting grouped district 8-10-30. eligible to f
vote at such election, asking that a spe- in
cial election he ordered in and for said a
district, at which shall bc submitted the a
following proposition, to wit: i
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property in School Dis- f
tric't No. 8-10-30. Grant parish La., sub- 3
ject to state taxation, annually, for a pe- e+
riod of five years for general educational \
purposes. , e
And. whereas, in the opinion of this c
hboird such special election is necessary \
and advisable. f
He it resolved by the Parish Board of c
School Directors of the Parish of Grant. e
La.. as follows:
Section one. That a special election be d
and the same is hereby ordered to be held I
in School District No. 8-10-30, Grant
Parish. La.. on '
TI!ESDAY. SEPTEMBER i5. 1916. o
at which shall be submitted the following h
proposition, to wit: ii
To levy a special tax of five mills on h
the dollar on all property in School Din- a
trict No. 8-10-30, Grant Parish, La., sub- v
Jet to state taxation annually, for a pe- C
riod of five years for general educational p
purposes. In
Section Two. That the Secretary of a
this board be and he is hereby instructed a
Ito have prepared for use at said special
el''etion a sufficient number of ballots, on I,
eac'h of which shall he printed the propo- h
sition mentioned in section one of this t
resolution, and in the following form:
PItOPOSITION
Proposition to levy a special YES J
tax of five mills on the dollar
on all property subject to state
taxation in School District No. a
8-10-30, Grant Parish. La.. for a =i B
period of five years, beginning NO
with the year 1916 and ending F
with the year 1920, both years
inclusive. for general educational
purposes.
Taxable valuation .................................
Signature of voter....................................
NOTICE TO VOTERS
To vote in favor of the proposition sub
mitted on this ballot place a (--) mark in
the square afterthe word "Yes", and to
vote against it place a similar mark in E
the sqlure after the word "No". I
And the Secretary of this board be and
he is hereby instructed to have prepared I
for use at said special election all the I
necessary ballot boxes, tally sheets, lists
of voters, assessed valuation of property. a
and compiled statement of voters in num- a
ter and arnont. ii
Section Thlee. That the polling place I
for the said spet,'.l election shall be at
Sand Spur precinct, and J. B. Maxwell. e
.1. W. Barren and George Wagqp are 5
appointed commissioners and E. J. ,\ulk
ner clerk of election to serve thereat. i
The said eletction shall Iw conducted un- a
tile laws of the state applicable thereto. I
Section Four. The President of this F
board is here.by Instructed to give notice
of the sptcrial election herein ordered, by E
his proclamnation to be published acco.rd
ing tn law: andi in the sald proclamation t
ht' shall annonunce that at eleven o'clock t
a. In. on Setemter 6, 1916. this board I
will meet at the court house at Colfax.
(rrant Parish. La.. and in open session .
nrnceedl to open the ballot box, examine
and count the ballots In number and
amount, examnine and canvass the returns 1
and dt-clart thIe result of the election.
The ablove resolution was adopted unan- r
Imously. all members of the board here
inltfore named voting In favor thereof.
J. H. McNEELY. e
President. .5
J. N. WARNER.
Secretary.t
The fnllowing ordinance was Introduced. I
and leing tduly secondedl, It was unant- 5
mnously adopltnd; to wit:
AN ORDINANCE
To gro' p Districts Nna. 21. 23 and 3.1, all
situated in Grant Parish. La.. and to t
distrthutt all funds derived from special I
school tax elections in said grouped dis- I
tricts acconrding to the original territo
rial subdivisions heretofore existing, in
accordance wth the assessment of said
District.
He it ordained by the Parish Board ofa
tchool Directors of the Parish of Grant.
La.. in legal session convened:
Sectionh one. That schodl districts Nos I
21. 23 and 31,. all situated in Grant Par
in,. la.. he and they are hereby grouned
nto onn diltrict to be known as School I
Iintrtict 2.-23-31.
Section Two. Re it further ordained
etc. T'hnnt all funds dn'rlved from specilal
nchlnl tax i.l,,tion.n. which may hereaf-I
t',r Ine hIltt and ordlered in the said
r',nnpld dilistrict. hnall be app~r'tined
r'lertitnl aeo,,rdling to the assessments of I
t!e original territori:l sdivislions to I
I, h n.riginnl stthdivlslon fol use in the
, oigign:l sundivision. I
Senttlon Threec. tHe it further ordained. I
'In'. Tha:t nIl onrlinannes or parts of ordi
nanc'ns ennctrary to or in conflict with this I
nnrdinnce are hIerthby repealed, and that
this ordinance shall go into effect imme- I
dlaltely upon its passage.
r'n.ntimornusly adopted.
The following resolution was offered by I
E. A. Wall and seconded by N. S. Roberts
who moved its adoption:
Whereas. There has been a request
made by the property tax payers of
School Districts Nos. 21. 23, and 31, con
stituting grouped District 21-23-31. eli
gihle to vote at such election, asking that
a special election he ordered in and for
said district, at which shall be submitted
the following proposition, to wit:
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property in School District
No. 21-23-31., Grant Parish, La., subject
to state taxation, annually, for a period
of five years for general educational pur
poses.
And, wherease. in the opinion of this
board such special election is necessary
and advisable.
He it resolved by the Parish Board of
School Directors of the Parish of Grant.
La., as follows:
Section One. That a special election be
and the same is hereby ordered to be
held in School District No. 21-23-31,
Grant Parish. La., on
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5. 1916,
at which shall be submitted the following
proposition, to wit:
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property in School Dis
trict No. 21-23-31. Grant Parish, La., sub
ject to state taxation, annually, for a pe
rid of five years for general educational
purposes.
Section Two. That the Secretary of
this board be and he is hereby instructed
to have prepared for use at this special
election a sufficient number of ballots, on
each of which shall be printed the propo
sition mentioned in section one of this
resolution, and in the following form:
,PROPOSITION
Proposition to levy a special tax YIES
of five mills on the dollar on all
property subject to state taxa
timn in schqol district No. 21
23-31. Grant( Parish, La., for a
period of five years, beginning
with the year 1916 and ending NO
with the year 1920, both years
inclusive, for general education
al purposes.
Taxable valuation.... ...................
Signature of voter ..... .............................
NOTICE TO VOTERS.
To vote in favor of the proposition sub
mitted on this ballot place a (X) mark in
the square after the word "Yes", and to
vote against it place a similar mark in
the square after the word "No".
And the Secretary of this board be and
he is hereby instructed to have prepared
for use at said special election all the
necessary ballot boxes, tally sheets, lists
of voters, assessed valuation of property.
and compiled statement of voters in num
ber and amount.
Section Three. That the poUlling places
for the said special election shall be at
Montgomery precinct and Verda precinct.
At Montgomery precinct Dan Drewett. J.
W. Bryant and Rolly Sellers are appoint
ed commissioners, and John I. McCain
clerk of election to serve thereat. At
Verda precinct George Garrett, B. D.
Fletche4 and J. W. Stanley are appointed
commissioners and H. L. Brian clerk of
election to serve thereat.
The said election shall be conducted un
der the laws of the state applicable
tI hereto.
Section Four. The President of this
board is hereby instructed to give notice
of the special election herein ordered, by
his proclamation to be published accord
ing to law; and in the said proclamation
lie shall announce that at eleven o'clock
a. m. on September 6. 1916, this board
will meet at the court house at Colfax.
Grant Parish. La.. and in open session
proceed to open the ballot boxes, exam
ine and count the ballots in number and
amount, examine and canvass the returns
and declare the result of the election.
The above resolution was adopted unan
imously, all the members of the board
hereinbefore named voting in favor
thereof.
J. H. McNEELY,
President.
J. N. WARNER.
Secretary.
The' following ordinance was introduced.
and being duly seconded, it was unani
mously adopted; to wit:
AN ORDINANCE
Forming Christian Hope District No. 16
out of the present Christian Hope Dis
trict No. 16 and Tison District No. 17.,
which said districts compose Ward
Five, and to distribute all funds de
rived from special school tax elections
?in said consolidated districts according
to the territory embraced in the boun
daries of Ward 5, Grant Pariah, La.,
Be it ordained by the Parish Board of
School Directors of the Parish of Grant.
La.. in legal session convened.
Section One. That school districts Nos.
it and 17, all situated in Ward 5, Grant
Parish, Ia.. be and they are hereby con
solidated into one district to be known
as Christian Hope District No. 16, which
said district embraces the territory with
in the boundary lines of Ward 5. Grant
Parish, Louisiana.
Section Two. Be it further ordained.
etc. That all funds derived from special
school tax elections which may hereafter
be held and ordered in the said consol
idated districts Nos. 16 and 17 shall be
apportioned acording to the assessment of
said Ward Five, constituting Christian
Hope District No. 16. Grant Parish La.
Section Three. Be it further ordained.
etc. That all ordinances or parts of or
dinances contrary to or in conflict with
this ordinance are hereby repealed, and
that this ordinance shall go into effect
immediately upon its pasage.
Unanimously adopted this 22d day of
July. 1916.
The following resolution was offered by
T. C. Lihcecum and second ed by E. A
Wall. who moved its adoption.
Whereas. there has been a request
made by the property tax payers if
Christian Hope District No. 1. constitut
ing consolidated districts 16 and 17 and
embracing the territory comprising Ward
5. Grant Parish. La., eligible to vote at
such election, asking that a special elec
tion be ordered in and for said Christian
Hope District No. 16,. at which shall be
subhmitted the following proposition, to
wit:
PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property in Christian
Hope School District No. 16. Grant Par
ish. La., subject to state taxation, annu
ally, for a period of five years for gen
eral educational purposes.
And whereas, in the opinion of this
board such special election is necessary
and advisable.
Be it resolved by the Parlsh Board of
~chool Directors of the Parish of Grant,
La.. as follows:
Section One. That a special election be
and the same is hereby ordered to be
held in Christian Hope District No. 16,
Grant Parish. La.. on
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5. 1916.
At which shall he submitted the following
proposition, to wit:
PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of five mills on
tihe dollar on all property In Chrstilan
Hope District No. 16. Grant Parish. La..
.:utbhJect to state taxation, annually, for a
period of five years fog general educa
tional purposes.
Section Two. That the Secretary of
this board be and he is hereby instructed
to have prepared for use at said special
election a suffllient number of ballots.
on each of which shall be printed the
proposition. mentioned in section one of
this reaolution, and In the following form.
.'- 1.4 . . .*" ; - j   I'
PROPOSITION
Proposition to levy a special YES
tax of five mills on the dollar
on all property subject to state
taxation in Christian Hope Dis
trict No. 16. Grant Parish, lou
Islana. for a period of five
years., beginning with the year NO
1916 and ending with the year
1920. both years inclusive. for
general educational purposes.
Taxable valuatioa...............................................
Signature of voter ......... ...................................
NOTICE TO VOTERS
To vote in favor of the proposition sub
mitted on this ballot place a (X) mark in
the square after the word "Yes". and to
vote against it place a similar mark in
the square after the word "No".
And the Secretary be and he is hereby
instructed to have prepared for use at
said election all the necessary ballot
boxes, tally sheets, lists of voters, as
sessed valuation of property, and com
piled statement of voters in number and
amount.
Section Three. That the polling place
for the said special election shall be at
Tully's Store. In Georgetown, La., and W.
H. Westberry, P. M. Ussery and J. D.
McConathy are appointed commissioners
and J. L. Homes clerk of election to serve
thereat.
The said election shall be conducted
under the laws of the state apulicable
thereto.
Sectlond Four. The President of this
board is hereby instructed to give notice
of the special election herein ordered, by
his proclamation to be published accord
ing to law: and in the said proclamation
he shall announce that at eleven o'clock
a. m. on September 6, 1914, this board
will meet at the court house at Colfax,
Grant Parish, La., and in open session
proceed to open the ballot box, examine
and count the ballots in number and
amount, examine and canvass the returns,
and declare the result pt the election.
The above resolution was adopted
unanimously, all members of the board
hereinhefore named voting in favor
thereof.
J. H. McNET.Y.
President.
J. N. WARNER,
Secretary.
The following ordinance was Introduced,
and being duly seconded, it was unani
mously adopted; to wit:
AN ORDINANCE
To group districts Nos. 12 and 26, all sit
uated in Grant Parish, La., and to
distribute all funds derived from special
school tax elections in said grouped
districts according to the original ter
ritorial subdivisions heretofore existing,
in accordance with the assessment of
said district.
Be it ordained by the Parish Board of
School Directors of the Parish of Grant,
La.. In legal session convened:
Section One. That school districts New
12 and 26, all situated in Grant Parish.
La., be and they are hereby grouped into
one district to be known as School Dis
trict 12-26.
Section Two. Be it further ordained.
etc. That all funds derived from special
school tax elections which may hereaftet
he held and ordered in the said grouped
district shall be apportioned according to
the assessments of the original territorial
subdivisions to such original subdivision
for use in the original subdivision.
Section Three. Be it further ordained,
etc. That all ordinances or parts of or
dinances contrary to or in conflict with
this ordinance are hereby repealed, and
that this ordinance shall go into effect
immediately upon its passage.
Unanimously adopted.
The following resolution was offered b)
E. A. Wall and seconded by N. S. Rob
erts, who moved its adoption.
Whereas, there has been a request
made by the property tax payers of
school districts Nos. 12 and 26, constitut
ing grouped district 12-26, eligible to vote
at such election, asking that a special
election be ordered in and for laid dis
trict, at which shall be submitted the fol
lowing proposition, to wit:
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all pfoperty in School Dis
trict No. 12-26, Grant Parish. La., sub
ject to state taxation, annually, for a pe
riod of five years for general educational
purposes. '
And whereas. in the opinion of thui
board such special election is necessar)
and advisable.
Be it resolved by the Parish Board of
School Directors of the Parish of Grant.
La., as follows:
Section One. That a special election be
and the same is hereby ordered to be
held in School District No. 13-26, Grant
Parish, La., on
TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 5, 1916,
at which shall be submitted the following
proposition, to wit:
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property in School Dis
trict No. 12-26, Grant Parish, La., sub
ject to state taxation, annually, for a pe
riod of five years for general educational
purposes.
Section Two. That the Secretary qo
this board be and he is hereby instructed
to have prepared for use at said specla!
election a sufficient number of ballots, or
each of which shall be printed the propo
sition mentioned in section one of this
resolution, and in the following form:
PROPOSITION
Proposition to levy a special YES
tax of five mills on the dollar
on all property subject to state
taxation in School District No.
12-26, Grant Parish, La., form
period of five years, beginning NO
with the year 1916 and ending
with the year 1920, both years
Inclusive, for general educational
purposes.
Taxable valuationa .................... ............
Bigaaturs of voter........................... ........
NOTICE TO VOTERS
To vote in favor of the propoldtion sub
mitted on this ballot place a (X) mark ll
the square after the word 'Yes", sad to
vote against It place a similar mark in
the square after the word "No".
And the Secretary of this board be and
he is hereby Instructed to have prepared
for use at said special election all the
necessary ballot boxes, tally ahe'ts, lists
of voters, assessed valuation of property.
mnd compiled statement of voters In num
'er and amount.
Section Three. That the polling place
for the said special election shall be at
Creed precinct, and J. H. Faircloth, Ernm
est Newton and - - Creed are appoint
ad commissioners and W. O. Hutchinson
clerk of election to serve thereat.
The said election shall be conducted
runder the laws of the state applicable
thereto.
Section Four. The President of
this board is hereby instructed to
give notice of the special elec
tlon herein ordered. by his proclama
ion to be published according to law:
mnd in the said proclamation he slIall an
lounce that' at eleven o'clock a. m., on
4eptemter 6, 1'16. this board will meet at
'he court house at ('olfa.x, OGrant Parish.
'a., and in open sessiton proceed to open
the ballot box. examine and count the
'allots In number and amount, examine
,nd canvass tlhe returns and declare the
result of the election.
The above resolution was adopted unan
imouslv. all the members of the board
herelnhbefore named voting in favor
thereof,
J. H. McNEELY.
President
J. N. WA RhNR.
s -. , . ,*.
DRY PRONG MAINTENANCE TAX.
The following resolution was offered
by N. S. Roberts and seconded by E. A.
Wall who moved Its adoption.
Whereas, there has been a request
made by the property tax payers of Dry
Prong School District No. 11. Grant Par
ish. La.. eligible to vote at such election,
asking that a special election be ordered
in and for said Dry Prong School District
No. 11, at which shall be submitted the
following proposition. to wit:
PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of ten mills on
the dollar on all property in Dry Prong
School District No. 11, Grant Parish. IA.,
subject to state taxation, annually, for a
period of two years for the purpose of
supporting and maintaining the schools
located in the said Dry Prong Scheel
District No. 11.
And whereas. in the opinion of this
board such special election is neoessary
and advisable.
Be It resolved by the Palish Board of
School Directors of the Parish of Grant,
La.. as follows:
Section One. That a special electin hbe
and the same is hereby ordered to be held
in Dry Prong School District 'No. 11U,
Grant Parish. La., on
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1914.
at which shall be submitted the following
proposition, to wit:
PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of ten mills OR
the dollar on all property in Dry Prong
School District No. II. Grant Parish, La.
subject to state taxation, annually, fer a
period of two years for the purpose e
supporting and maintaining the schbls
located in the said Dry Prong School Dis
trict No. 11.
Section Two. That the meretary o1
this board be and he is hereby Ilastruted
to have prepared for use at said sppeal
election a sufficient number of balete,
on each of which shall be printed the
proposition mentioned in section ae st
this resolution, and in the f
PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of ten Vly
mills on the doller on all
arty in Dry Prmang School DL
trlct No 11, Grant Parish, La.,
subject to state taxation, snal
ally for a period of two year,
oeginning with the year 191I
and ending with the year 1913,8 NO
both years inclusive, for the
purpose of supporting and main
tainlng the schools located In !
the said Dry Prong School Dis
:rict No. 11.
Taxable vssaaMea ......................---
Sigsatus at Vee.................................-
NOTICE TO VOTERS
To vote in favor of the proposltion *
mitted on this ballot place a (X) moas IS
the square after the word "Yes", ad to
vote against it plpa a similar m i Y
the square after the word "No".
And the Secretary be and he Is bhesP
instructed to have prepared for red
said special election al the necessary
lot boxes, tally sheets, lists of'voter, pm
seased valuation of property, and ese
piled statement of voters is number sad
amount
section Three. That the poing
for the said specal election s be at
Dry Prong precinct. In the said De
Prong School District No. 11, sad . 5.
Walker. I. B. Sermons and Mike HRe
are appointed commiselsoers a W.
Smith clerk of electlon to serve tbhs
The said election sha be
under the laws of the state appUa
thereto.
Section Pour. The President ot O1 e
board is hereby instrtedl to give
f the special election 1y1a OAd
ils proclamation to the piOlas o
.ng to law; and in the saMd perdss-
he shall announce that at *
t. m., on Septenber . 131, thl_s
will meet at the court hous at
Grant Parish. La. and In pens
proceed to open the ballot box,
and count the ballots a number 0d4
amount, examine and canvass the
and declare the result of the deleti s.
The above resolution was adopte4d 9a
imously, all the members [ thbea an
'ereinbefore named voting in As
thereof. .
J. IL MeNElP, .
I. N. WARNER,
Secretary.
DRY PNON@G OND ISUL
ORDINANCE No. IL
N. S Roberts offered Ordlinsas Na I1
who moved its adopt lon, d s e
by . A. Wall, and it g
the board by tihe Pr t J. W
Neely, E. A. Wan Un.
Roberts and M. E. Jsackas vted
adoption of the ordianass, mays
whereupon the chair ammteged
adoption of the ordinance by the Wal.
oy unaniknous vote.
Whereas, it is necessary that a
school building be built and equipped
Dry Prong. Lo ina, i Dry Pre
School District No. 11, and
Whereas, the citiseas and pr tat
payers of the aid Dry PM DLg
trict No. 11 have requested te said
chool building be builtAtnd equipped, and
a site be purchased, if necessary, and
Whereas, It is necessary and destrahM
for funds to be raised for said
and.
Whereas, it is the voluntary wi at
body to call the election herenasfter
vided for, and
Whereas. Article No. 281 of the
tution of 1839 and 1913, and Ant. Na
Af the Legislature of 1910. as eameedd
4.ct Mt oat 1912, declare the school
if the parish to be the govereno s ·a t
ty through which said Dry Pro sSel
Dstriet No. 11 may Incur add
ssue negotiable bonds for such purpe
athen so authorised at ans eetion to he
held i the said Dry Prong Sohel Di
triet No. IU, and
Whereas, the assessed valuation of the
said Dry Pool School DMistrict MeNa 11
amounts to approximately oMe hm'ed
and sixty thousand (0L0.eO ) doMes,
the proposed Indebtedeae does ot
exceed the cmonstitutional limit of ten pq
3eat of the assessed valuation, sad
Whereas,. the special tax necesagery i
be annually levied to extilnaguish the ps
posed Indebtedness will approximate
eight (8) mills, which will not exceed the
conetltutional limit per annum on the dol;
lar of the assessed valuato of the rO
erty of said Dry Prong Scho Dtstr
No. 11, now. therefore;
Section One. Be it ordaed b the
Boar of School Directors of the Pr
of Olnt, Louisiuana. in legal uees see
vaned. That an election shall be sad
hereby called to be held in the id Dry
Prong District No. 11, In the Parlsl at
OGrant. Louisisna, on
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5. 1116,
at which election the majority of tlb
oroperty tax payers of the said Dry
Prong School District No. 11. in numat
and amount, eligible to vote ad votlg.
shall determine the
PROPOSITION
Proposition to Incur debt sad -e
bonds of the said Dry Prong School Dis
trlct No. I1. In the Parish of oGrat. La.,
to the amount of ten thousand (IM00.W)
dollars, to ran for a period of approx
Imately ten (10) years, hearig terst
at the rate of five per cent per anna.
payable annually, the fupds tbhus
to be used for the
PURPOSE
Purpose of building and eqipi sa
school building at Dry Prmong, onlaw.
in the said Dry Prong Schol District
No. II.
Section Two. Be It further ordaihed
satissed oa As page
