The St. Joseph Observer
u
rj,
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, JULY 29, 1916
t . L
NUMBER 43
CONGRESSMAN
OR
SS
THEY COULD NOT
WE HAVE THEM HERE
HIS CASE WITH MS JABS
Just Common Prevarication About -A Pair of Democratic Candidates Who
Lake Contrary Will Send No f1 ' Run Upon the Plan of
. One to Congress ', Johnnie Swanger
1
Will Stick' to His Post of. Duty and
Feels. That He Is Doin That
Which Is Right
W
His Friends Appreciate His Devotion
to Their. Interests and Will Re
nominate Him Tuesday
T PLATTE CO.
OF
INKS
BOQHER
Those who have boon so bols- The St. Louis Republicans arc be
terouily nnd loudly proclaiming "ginning lo see John Swanger ns he
that "if I wore In congress I really la. They have begun to learn Chester D. Rose. One nf the tinn.i t. .,m h ni, ..i,i.,
j -- ---w uuuo v n wuiu um imt; nai.uiu u
"How would the people of the
Fourth congressional district feoJ to
watch a raw recruit such as we would
send, If Charley lioloher was refuted,
matching his wits and wisdom with
Von Bcrnsdorff, or any of the great
foreign ambassadors down at Wash
ington; men who have been desig
nated to spend their lives at those sta-
Prominent Farmers of the
County, Tells the Story
would have stopped the threat- what the pcoplo in Sullivan coun'y
ened cutting Into Lake Contrary have known for a long time that he
by the Missouri river," .arc In- Is a smooth, designing politician, who
vlted to consult either Col. Mc- Is always ready to run for an office,
Indoe, In charge of the Missouri and that his morajf conscience does CAVC .,
river, or the secretary of war, not shrink from getting votes, no mat- SAYS IT IS NO
who will very quickly get some ter how or where ho gets them. The
of the muddle out of their sup- Republican members, of the city com-
rosed grey matter. The asplr- mltte- in St. Louis who were forced
child who had unfortunately lost Its
very-necessary wearing apparel stand
ing before an audience. It would be
as much a handicap as a humiliation.
"A grave situation is before the
TIME FOR TRADING P606 oI the fourth congressional
district aown at Washington. We all
know that August 1 is one of our op
portunities to touch with that sltua-
ants for congress know full well to endorse Swanger by "Doss" John And That Congressman Booher Should J?"' . "' " Low hat U , h.v
. .. . .. . .. , ... . r..i ., ,...-,. i, .-,.. -.i -...-- B Kent at Hit Poit nf Dufv fnr k- llou' we a" Know mat is tne aa we
To My Friends in Buchanan County:
that now tllat the river will not Scbraoll, "Hank" Weeke and. others,
cut Into the lake this season, that are beginning to wake up. They have
their greatest noise asset Is gone learntd that "Johnny Slick" is a four-
and It hurts them. flush'rr. that he Is playing the game
V Every man of good brain of "wet In the cities and dry In the
j knows that the United States , country." They have also figured It
i government now and for the out that a man cannot be for local
past twenty years has required option in the country and against
! that when government work and state-wide prohibition. That old fake
! government aid is asked along 'is like the old tariff fake, and, strange
Be Kept at His Post of Duty for the
Reason That He, Like Judge Burnes, f e t0 (desl6nato one of our great
Has Become Proficient In the Place
family, to go down there and answer
to Which He Has Been Chosen and ye8' ?.nd no' for a" ot U8.a8.a unlt on
That Especially Now at This Crltl- iue-0U5 concerning us in mis great
cal Time Men of His Experience Are ,Wrld,8 wa5: a"d l,here ,s only ono
Needed way to perform It keep our old regu
lar and trained soldier, Charley
Booher, on the (border) front at
. ... . Washington, and Insure the future
ine assertion is irequenuy nearu
life, hannlnpsa. nnH nrnoTioHti- nf nnr.
any stream to protect its banks to say the Republicans in St. Louis made by those who are opposed to the eiVes, our children, and our chil-
-J?'
.4
Vftii rtovi tfinlili cnr Vav VAtnwiMin 4-r 4 Vi rlntltf vwnaa 4-V4- .. i . - it., t. .. ti tl tiL4 ronnm In n tfrtn t fn rtwrnf n T)nnUAaa
xuu .au 11.0V111J ace uj iciciuuc w uiv vt.wijr mo 'k that If the stream Is not a navig- nave uctuany oegun io see uiu uui. """ " i,6.ntuiu uuuuci, Wren's children. We have no time to
the work of congress IS such at this late date that it absolutely i. able 0ne as the Missouri is not The shrewd politicians, both Democrat that now that Platte county has a nsten t0 politicians for the same rea
precludes my returning home to meet you before thtg primary . that tne government engineers and Kepubllcan. have pulled off the candidate for his place that Mr.vSon that we have 'no tlnje t0 1sten
Without neglecting the important duties to which ypu have . w make an estlraate 0f what , "wet" stunt In the city and the "dry" Booher has but a small following down to college bred students to tell us how
assigned me, and I therefore leave my case in your hands, trust- . , neP(ed t0 do the work stunt. In the country for the last time there and that he does not stand well t0 ralse our corn our h and our
mg that you Will fully appreciate my position and give me the and that then the governnlent . Sensible people will not stand for it with the Democracy of that county wheat or the Doctor Wlleys to tell us
support Which I am precluded from asking Of you in person. wI t u doar for dollar wkh any ionger, tt haB finally reached to That this assertion is used for pollti- how t0 ralse our chlldren. It's pencil
the citizens to make the needed he "gray matter" of the rank and cat eneci oniy ana mat it is furnished to the ballot, boys, and send Charley
repairs-and will do no more. Ale in both parties, that, if we had b- Inspiration to these mouthpieces Booher to the front.
The Missouri is not a navigable state-wide prohibition there would Is self-evident from the fact that a We have no Ume t0 llgten tQ these
stream above Kansas City. There "t. nor could not. be any local option fereat number of those who are mak- polltIcIanS( for they never v.m be 8al.
is no freight or passenger traffic the state. Hence, it is very, very "g these assertions have never been lsfled Even wheQ death cag them
on it. Every thinking person 'safe for candidates for office to say, Inside ot Platte county in their lives they wm,t be satIsfiedlt.s ke thIs
knows that the federal govern- "I am.for home rule in the cities and "d ""f ot thm Jo not even know wUh them. You e,ect Qne of them
ment Is not Interested In Lake ,or local option in the counties." A -- ' " .uwy. ine, nave constab,e, then he wants you t0 elect
1 ? - t i i WlmnlV noon tnin fmm 'hiDhan n . .
Contrary as It is a private resort. ,"anynal mnKes Bucn a "uieut a8 ---- -r- -- i nlm Bherlfl; then he wants you to
Every reasonable persons knows should be branded as the Great what to say and how to say It. elect hlm representatIve t0 Jefferson
that a steamer could come to St. Higny-rie" oi tne Ananias uiuo. we- -"'" iu yi clty. then he wantg you to e,ect hJm
Joseph through the Lake Con- cause- a man ls Ior UDme ruie lu ' ,. .7 . l""v '"c governor; then he wants you to elect
trary cut-off If the rives goes
1 "VlSfe'S
... . . KMT3M- -- -1
iHl& ''jfcX
ISHHHMi' -" - -. -..--. .
ywMBBm mzi J
iif -, mmsm . .-- .
- -.1 -
iAiu.ni. jt ti. .
ix.-i .,' i,!i ;
STV,
Mj Clf
riv . is"'. ' - ..-ii" a -.
w&i? artr: tf-ji-. y- '
.-4.i
WSft
St. Louis he could not be against e situation may come from first h!m nnitpH RntP IDn,tnr. h ,
era 6 ,,,.- -j .l-. , ...1.-1 lmnHs Hio rollahlllv nf -MnVi nnnnnf . . . '
through, just as well as it could tnome ru,e ,n MlMa' aaa lnal 1B wuat "" , " !, "" """' V", ,T wants you t0 eIect flIm President.
now come by the present route. f Swanger ls telling the people all over Je i quest loaed. the following letter EIect him pre9ident the flt t,me(
Every person also knows that ' the state. It Is Impossible for a man . " ? "' then he wants you to elect hlm presl-
to De -wev- in one piace anu ury - ""v,u"v" "' aent tne second time; elect him
in another place. And any man who Northwestern Platte county, is here- president the second time, then he
seeks an office from the voters (and b' reproduced. Mr. Rose Is located In wants you t0 eiect hlm presidellt tbe
especially the most important office the Bean Lake and Iatan districts, thIrd tIme It ls not g0 wlth charley
In our great state) and puts out such where hIs holdings are, and the stand- Booher and Judge Burnes; these two
"bunk" as that. Is certainly not en- InS whIch he enjoys cannot be ques- men are exceptions, and when you
titled to any consideration by the vot- """" auuress is itusnvnie, u. nave an exceptIon, stay with them-
Congressman Booher three years
ago secured $75,000 from the
government for the fixing of the
bank opposite Lake Contrary,
conditioned on the fact that the
citizens raise a like amount.
Eyery citizen knows that the ap-
proprlation was allowed to lapse
ers. A man who is Dig enougn to De
governor of the great state of Mls
F. D. No. 1. Mr. Rose writes:
they have reached their assignments
"The Platte county people honor the ln Ufei and no urther.
a year ago because the citizens -uvt,u"' "" 'tM- Dl" "4 '" ' cItizens and farmpr, f th nnner
i j . i.. j ..i , - souri should be man enough to take clzens anu tarmers ot tne upper
HON. CHARLES F. BOOHER
and farmers Interested did not
raise their part of the fund.
Every citizen also knows that
Congressman Booher1 has again
introduced and has had passed
by the house and senate and
signed by the president another
bill appropriating another $75,-
000 to protect Lake Contrary,
providing that the citizens raise
a like amount and every-
one knows that a couple ot husky
orators are tramping down the
"Training and keeping at their sta-
a stand on every vital question, and counties of the Fourth congressional t,0M ,n fe guch meQ as Char,ey
.Jnot equivocate or pussy-foot. Milan dlstrict for
Stnnrfnrrf always give
the solid support they
Standard.
Booher, Judge Burnes, Champ Clark,
FOR COUNTY CORONER
e to their honored citizen. ,. j .. ....
Judge Alonzo D. Burnes. . V . "jattcu,-'olu','
T. . , . ,, , , for the teaching of your children's
The people of Platte county know cMidren
that the name of Hon. Charley F
Booher is aa npnr nnd Hr t .h. "" "ou dabble and deal with these
J. W. Mays Is a Native of Bu- people of the upper counties as the CT&vlaS hungry politicians the only
chanan County, and a Physl- name of Judge Burnes to the people fruIt you wln ever reaP wiU be of
clan of Repute of Platte county. Oyster Bay, and Oppossum eating
; "On Aug. 1 the farmers and citi- brand of nlfitory.
Dr. J. W. Mavs of 824 Edmond zcns of Platte county will have an "Charley Booher and Judge Burnes
street, St. Joseph, Mo., ls a native of opportunity to repay their love and naye both been tried, tested, and edu-
Dr.
I have always trusted the Democracy of Buchanan county
and you have reciprocated with the most pleasing expressions
li ana you nave reuiprucaieu wim tne must piuusniK expre&siuiiB- ...... ... WI . ..j
ft' of your confidence in me, for which I again thank you, and will i ?bil hls ln " "'hngton attend-
U always remember your loyalty and veotion with that feeling, ,ng t0, the duties tor which he
always remember your loyalty and veotion with that feeling
of gratitude which comes as tne result ot mutual trust and con
fidence.
With best wishes, I remain,
Your obedient servant,
CHARLES F. BOOHER.
Washington, D. C, July 27, 1916.
I A. ll U....U -II n..A Ui Jln.I A.
! Ian uiuBii mi UC1 hub u.onn-L -w Uuchanan county. He was born near esteem to the farmers of the upper caieo. in meir respective stations, un
' trying to take Congressman TajS( Aprl, lg72 At thfl agC counties for their friendly and solid August 1 let's take off our hats and
Booher's seat away from him . . ' '. j .u t,iiunlt. fnr nnr oitwmcH Mtan inn bow to the flae of Charlev Booher.
. oi louneeu jeare uc uiuicu vwm u . , ....v., .UUD -- - w . .
i Barents. Mr. and Mrs. Samuel M .Alonzo D. Burnes. who is at his station, a protector of
CHARLES C. CROW
A Well Known St Joseph Man Who
Would Be a Court of Appeals
Judge
There Is no one in Northwest Mis
souri who does not know and admire
Charles C. Crow, formerly of this city,
where he practiced law successfully
for a number of years, later remov
ing to Kansas City, where he is now
one of the most successful of attor
neys ln legal circles and social as well.
He is one ot thosq who are always
welcome, no matter where they ap
pear. Mr. Crow ls now an aspirant for the
Democratic nomination for the judge
ship of the Kansas City court of ap
peals, and from this viewpoint It looks
as It there was no chance tor htm to
lose. It is said that his opponents
are not men ot experience, and ln con
sequence St. Joseph's friend Is ln the
front rank.
The many friends and acquaint-
-; ances. tft, Mr. and Mrs. Sylvester Van,
.Hoomken will learn with pleasure
jr'fhat this popular young couple are to
f- arrlte tonight at 6:10 o'clock In St.
' Joseph trom Portland, Oregon, after
HULL A8 A DUCKI8T
He Made a Remarkable Escape
i XfnVB in' SnArta. where his father
was elected, using as a, slogan, ,..,,,. nr Milv, rr,ivi hi.
"If you send me I will get the ,prlmary education at the Lone Star
money." l and Sparta schools. He afterward at-
tended' the Central high school in St.
75,0OO FOR THE RIVER 'josepb. finishing in 1896. He then
entered the Ensworth medical col-
Congressman Booher's Bill Is jlege, graduating from that Institution
Signed, by the President Thurs- in 1900. After receiving his diploma,
' day Afternoon 'he located at Easton, ln this county,
where he practiced his profession un-
From Platte County Local
Option Election
Congressman Bodber's bill ap- , til Aug. 1, 1912. He then went to St.
' proprlating $75,000 for the work , Joseph and opened his office In his
! of imnrnvlne the Missouri river nresent location. In 1911 Dr. Mays
opposite Lake Contrary, which attended the Chicago Poet Graduate
Candidate for congress James nad been passed by both houses, school. He also took a special conrse
H. Hull of Platte, who ls urging was signed by the puesldent ln the diseases of the eye, ear, nose
his claims based on the asser- Thursday afternoon and the gov-
tlons that "Booher has been ! J m8 Part of the f und ,8 now J
there .long enough." and "Platte aVJhfgb J,,, lngure Jfety of
county Is entitled to It." Is hav- jke Contrary, as the fund to be
lng considerable difficulty ln ex- , raised by the citizens will now
plaining so both the "wets" and , be completed.
the "drys" of the district how be
stands on the liquor question.
Hull ducked out ot Platte coun-
ty three weeks ago on the night
before the local option election,
and went to Hlgginsvllle, where
he addressed the old soldiers on Tl1, f,or tho t,,,, h.
J
His
WHAT TEDDY SAID
Four Years Ago' Proclamation
Should Hold Good at the
Present Time '
S7vt?SBBBBBBBf
DR. J. W. MAYS
and throat at the Chicago Polyclinic
He Is an active member ot the
Buchanan County Medical society, and
ot the Missouri State and the- Amerl-
the next day, while all Platte convenUon four yeara ag0 Theodore
countlans were voting. Hull RoOEeveU wrote ln a lgned arUcle
could have remained lu Platte publhcd ln Tho Outlook:
City until 8 a. m. Saturday morn-, A a flnal regult tnB fraudulent
lng, which would have given hlm convention then named a new fraud can Medical associations. Doctor
three hours ln which Ho have 'ulent committee, to which It gave at Mays Is.' married and has a family ot
voted, jmd then coukj have solute Jwer over the next KepubU-,three chHdren. As a student, he was
l r, lhJ&rtritaSS ftV. "iffi -W. energetic and a
which would have taken him to.TBK'compl),te.cctrol the party ma-llder oJ his classes. Asa citizen, he
Hlgginsvllle In ample time to chlnery have carefully provided' In ad-hs ai Democrat and has always stood
make his address. Since Hull vance that tour years hence 1916) for the. best moral Interest ot his
an abseace of three Tears spent on
tbe Paclc slope. Mr Van Hoomlien ducked, neither the wets or drys the.R,,ubUcan, T,ote" hill be iCiUvi'' community and the upbuilding of hu
yas connected with tbe Ford Automo
bile company ln Portland as cashier,
and oe his nnlval here will become
superintendent of the pew Ford
ngency that is to b- established soon.
Th popularity of 0 s young couple,
will be a valuable asset in Mr. Van
HoomlBen's business career here.
can trust him. a. they rightly J "i " ,V Kftl'manltr. As a physician, he is devoted
argue that when a man has not an party have absolutely uo chance j to his profession and successful In his
the courage to stand up in his of regaining control over the party; practice. Neither Doctor Mays nor
own county and rote one way or ' nd the party has been definitely and any member of his family has ever
the other, that he would not do 12n,1j brouflt, bett and fraud un-' before Mked tbe peop,e ror lhelr Bup.
to trust on the floor ot congress ?" n SLSSST star withln'tt ' port, but now he ask. for your vote
when an Imported measure wall Republican party under these condi-ifor the Democratic nomination ot cor
to be voted upon. TT 4 tidas,
oner, Tuesday, Aug. 1, 1916.
"The Platte county citizen who it . your homes. 'our sons and your prop-
writing this article is very much aceTy
qualnted with the political situation
in this county, and I want to say that
the name ot Charley Booher is deep
ln the hearts of every citizen. We
honor the name of Charley Booher
with tbe same firmness, and reason,
that we honor the name of Woodrow
Wilson for sticking to bis post of
duty, on the firing line, standing as a
soldier, whom we have selected to
stand at our seat ln congress, at
Washington, facing the great foreign
and Mexican crises knowing that aU
home is an active bunch ot disgruntled
politicians, and revolutionaries, clam
oring with eyery falsehood that the
human mind can conceive, trying to
tear from this honored man his very
life, and his honor.
"It Is not a matter of who is op
posing Charley Booher in this cam
paign, for Charley Booher ls the one
and only man at this time to repre
sent us in congress, for the same rea
son that Woodrow Wilson Is the only
one and only man capable and fit to
represent us as president at this time.
It ls not a matter ot politics by send
ing Charley Booher to congress; it is
a matter of duty, honor, and prepared
ness, and I can show you that this is
the tact.
"Take for instance a United States
regular, soldier, a bank president, law
yer, doctor, teacher, or the president
of any of the great Institutions, etc
Does the United States government
train a regular soldier tor three, six,
nine, or twelve 'years, then at the
critical moment say to these trained
men: 'You step out; let this man in;
because he has a great reputation for
setting up the .drinks, buying the
cigars, being a good mixer, a sliver
tongued orator, a favorite son from
this or that county, has been speaker
ot a house, has been constable or so
and so." What does your dear Uncle
Sam do? He sends his trained men
to guard your homes, your chlldren
and your property.
"CHESTER D. ROSE."
BOOHER WILL WIN
That Is the Way That the Bookmak
ers Are Posting Their
Bets
The bookmakers are playing Booher
to wn. the congressional race, with
Martin and Hull for second and third
place respectively. Bets of 50 to 35
on Booher which were posted yester
day in a Francis street bookmaker's
place had up to last night found no
takers. There has not been much
money placed on this race, the sher
iff's race taking down the lucre. The
News-Press In its Thursday issue,
speaking of the race, says:
"On the Democratic side of this con
test the race seems to be among
Booher, Martin and Hull, as Young is
not making much of a campaign, and
the bookmakers are playing Booher as
a favorite, with odds even as between
Hull and Martin. The Republicans are
paying little attention to the primary
race. Their only Interest is that the
Democrats will nominate the candi
date who will prove "easiest for our
man to beat ln November,' but they
are not agreed as to who that candi
date Is."
John McQultty, an old Boone county
farmer, went to St. Louis to buy
stock,, and the. .first day Just chanced
to meet a pretty little girl wearing a
blue bat, a blue dress, a blue parasol,
and oh, fie blue stockings. The
next day he met her again and wired
his bank for $25; the third day he met
her again, and wired for $50. Another
meeting and foxy grandpa was wiring
for $100 when his banker notified tbe
police who took him in charge and
helped him buy his stock and start
home.
I
..&.. i ,.
