THE BARRE DAILY
TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 115.
RARRE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, JULY 20, 1010.
PRICE. ONE CENT.
INLAND RAID
BY ZEPPELINS
.Official Report Says There
Were No Casualties In
' England
BOMBS FELL MOSTLY
IN THE OPEN FIELDS
.Three Air Machines Partici
pated in First Raid in
Twelve Weeks
London, July 2!). Three Zeppelin dir
igible balloons participated in a raid on
the east coast of England, it is officiaJly
announced. There were no casualties.
Details of the raid are still lacking.
An unofficial dispatch says the airships
proceeded Inland ft short distance and
dropped bombs at the side of the rail
way. The missiles fell in the field and
roads where no damage was done.
This is the first German airship raid
on England in twelve weeks.
FRENCH PUT DOWN
MORE ATTACKS
And They Also Succeeded In Gaining
Some Ground In the Region of
Thtaumont.
Paris, July 29. Two strong German
detachments, which attempted to reach
the French lines at a point west of Ver
mandovillers on the Somme front, were
repulsed, the French war office announces.
In the region of the French fortress of
Verdun two German attack on the re
doubt in the ravine south of Fleury were
checked. The French made some progress
in the region of Thiaumont.
In the sector of Fumin and Chenois
woods the artillery duel continues.
MANY CASUALTIES
IN THREE RAIDS
ON ITALY PORTS
to the wet of the Thiaumont work, on
the rl'-Iit Itaiik of the Mcuse.
Iu a naval battle between several
Gtrman aubma .iii and three Bntuh
patrolboata on the count of Scotland,
Berlin reports the sinking of one of the
lintish v'W'. It add that the oll.o'
two patrollonti are supposed to Lay
been mi ic 1 i.fl n says mat in a tani
by a Gsriunt V m.rine on a fleet (
British vessel eight of the vessel we-e
sunk.
NO EXCHANGE OF SUPPLIES.
Negotiations Between Rumania and Tut.
key arc Broken Off.
London, July 29. All negotiations be
tween Rumania and Turkey with regard
to exchange of supplies have been brok
en off, says a Teuton dispatch from
Bucharest
FRYATT EXECUTION
DENOTES NEW PHASE
German Priie Regulations Have Adopted
Principle That Merchantmen Are .
Not Entitled to Commit Acta
of War.
Berlin, July 20. The execution of Cap
80 DEATHS
DUE TO HEAT
VERMONT ROYS ARE
ENJOYINC CAMP LIFE
Reported to Coroner's Office
In Chicago During
24 Hours
a trial by court martial , ner 1 i office. Some hope was held out by t t(j from t(,p Ks, (j ,.om
to ram a German submft- jthe forecaster for a possible relief from if ,irll((,(.sro. aIft nave r(.aiJ
new phase jn submarine the heat wave. , roo11() mnf)p f bamlHW). Tlls Mtivf
tain Fryatt of the
Brussels, after
for attempting
rine, denotes a.
controversy. German prize regulations
have adopted the principle that merchant
men were not entitled to commit acts o
war, and it threatened to treat as pirates
those attempting to do so.
200 PROSTRATIONS
Nine Deaths in The State of
Michigan Laid to Heat
Wave
Chicago, Julv 20. Eighty deaths at
tributed to the excessive heat and near
ly 200 prostrations have been reported in
it . l..a. It A 1 a . - I
They Ate in Good HOtb Cenerally and
Have Wrelome Food to Eat Show,
er Bathi Lessen the Terrors of
Border Heat.
ENGLAND IS AROUSED
Austrians Killed Five and Wounded
Twenty at Molfetta and Wounded
Two at Bad.
Rome, July 29. Austrian aeroplanes
made an attack to-day on three Adri
atic seaports. Two persons were wound
eu at Bar'i and iivo were killed and 0
wounded at Molfetta.
ITALIAN LINER
TURNED GUNS
.ON SUBMARINE
Re D 'Italia, Bound from Genoa for New-
York Was Attacked, But Succeeded
In Beating Off the Teuton
Ship.
Rome, July 29. Re D Italia, a ves
' eel of the Italian Lloyd Sabaudo line,
was attacked by a Teuton submarine
while the steamer was on a voyage from
Genoa to New York. The defensive
guns with which the vessel was equipped,
were brought into play and the submer
sible was driven away. The liner then
proceeded on her way to America.
BRODY CAPTURED
AND TEUTON LINE
WAS SMASHED
Russians Have Taken 9,000 Prisoners and
Seized 46 Guns Brody is an Impor
tant Railroad Junction.
London, July 29. Driving forward at
two points less than sixty miles apart,
Russian forces have captured Brody, in
Galicia, and have broken the Austro
German first lines west of Lutsk in
Volhynia, according to the latest Russian
' official communication. In addition the
Russians have taken 0,000 prisoners and
46 guns, v ienna admits the penetra
tion of the Austrian-line on the Brody
Lesznieow road and says the Austrians
are continuing the battle on the southern
border of Brody.
The capture of Brody, an important
railway junction, some fifty miles north
east of Lembery, opens a direct road to
the Galician capital. The occupation of
the, town also may have the effect of
causing the entire Austrian line south
ward toward Tarnopol and Buczacz,
which has been held tenaciously in face
of Russian attacks, to fall back.
The success in Volhynia, while also a
means to Lemberg should General on
Linsingen be unable to withstand the
Russian attacks, which Fetrograd re
ports are continuing, threatens the
stronghold of Vladimir-Volynski, and
make more insecure the Auatro-Gcr-
man hold on KoveL
British troops north of the Somme In
France have succeeded in occupying the
whole of Longueval against a stubborn
defense by the Germans. Their march
"'towards Bapaume also has been aided by
i the reocciipation of th Lelville wood.
Fighting continues in the vicinity of Po
: xieres.
n the front held by the French no
' fighting in the Somme region is reporteJ
by Fans. In the Vosges, however, the
Germain have attempted to break the
French line. In one attack south cf
, Ssnte Marie pass, the Or mans painei a
footboll in French positions, but were
driven out. Paris savg. A second attack
was broken up.
Over the Execution of Captain Fryatt of
the Brussels.
London, July 29. The execution of
Captain FryUtt of the British steamer
Brussels by the German government has
aroused the British nation, and the for-
ign oflice has requested James V. tier
ard, the American ambassador at Berlin,
to procure complete details of the affair.
According to information received here,
Captain rryatt was sentenced to death
because while in command of the British
teamship Wrexham in 1913 he was al
leged to have attempted to ram a Ger
man submarine.
The German government, according to
wireless message received here, claims
the execution of the British merchant
captuin was on the ground that he had
committed a "franc-tireur crime against
Germany sea foreos." Viscount Grey,
the British foreign secretan', m a com
munication to Ambassador Gerard, has
claimed that the act for which Captain
Fryatt paid with his life was "essentially
defensive."
The British foreign office claims that
the allegation of the German government
that Captain Fryatt had with him a
Witch bearing an inscription commending
him for an attempt to ram a submarine
is untrue. Officials of the foreign office
state that the charge against Captain
Fryatt must have been based on press
reports.
Captain Fryatt was known as a "pi
rate dodger" on account of his success in
eluding German submarines in the chan
nel land the North seA.
The foreign office has also sent a pro
test to the American embassy asking for
the immediate release of five steward
esses of the Brussels who have been con
fined in a German detention camp.
Eagle Pass, Tex., July 24, 1916.
Editor of Times i
Dear Sirt
In this letter I will try to Klve a de
scrirtlon of the different amusement
that we have here. You will no doubt, be
surprised to know that we have moving
picture on the field. But nevertheless it
! a fui-t ntnl v(rv irnnil Mhnwa are piven
JJUKlNLr bAML PLKIODIevery evening. F.very Saturday night we
have a vaudeville snow with the pictures.
Last Saturday, the 22d, in the cool of the
evening before the picture were shown
we had four loxing matches. The per
sons taking part were boys from Ver
mont, Maryland, Kansas and the 30th
U. S. A. infantry.
This proved to lie a very exciting and
interesting program. The ring was roped
off and stood about four feet above the
audience before the moving picture
screen. But this is only one form or
amusement. We also have vaMous sports
on our streets such tas boxing, wrestling
and singing to the tunc of a field organ
that belongs to Company I boys, a pre
om-
ing rooms made of bamtioo. The natives
call this plant "river cane." It grows to
the height of from eight to ten feet, look-
intr like Jirire field corn but of a very
Are Attributed to the Excessive Heat touch nature. The room has two very
British steamship the last 24 hours, according to the euro-
NINE DEATHS IN MICHIGAN.
Visitation.
Detroit, Mich., July 29. Nine deaths
in this state are attributed to the con
tinned heat in Michigan.
FRAUDULENT
INFANTILE PA
RALYSIS
The Department of Agriculture Instructs
Food and Drug Inspectors to Watch
Interstate and Foreign Shipments
for Fraudulent Remedies.
Washington, I). C, July 29. Officials
of the department of agriculture charged
large rooms with tables and benches, so
one can read and write.
On the hottest days houses built of
this material are very cool, as the sun's
ravs do not penetrate these leaves, and
the wind filters through the cane, giving
t (the wind! a cooling effect. It is one
of the prettiest sights I ever iiw, tho
Texas moonlight nights. The sky is clear
and has a deep blue color. The moon-
CURES" light m very bright; when the moon is
full it is almost as bright as dav. Jn
fact. I often read my papers. The Times,
after tups by moonlight with ease.
The food here is verv good. l esternay,
Sunday, July 23, we had for dinner, meat
-Hid potatoes, macaroni and cheese, pud
ding and pineapple sauce and coiTee. We
often have iced coffee or tea tor meals.
We are more comfortable now, as we
have our cots to sleep on. New clothes
with the enforcement of the food and ,ftve Wn jIM,,i 'to jnc, we came
CALLED BACK
AT DEATH DOOR
Charles Stielow Got Stay Of
Execution For a Few
Hours
BECAUSE THE JUDGE
WAS SO RUSHED
C00D ANIMAL FEATS
He Had Not Had Time To
Examine All Papers In
Defense
Ossining, X. Y.. July 29. As Charles
Stielow wa about to start for the elec
ric chuir at the state prison this morn
ing, the prison authorities received word
by telephone that Supreme Court Justice
Guy had granted a stay of execution un
til to-night. Stielow was condemned to
ie for the murder of Charles Phelps,
farmer, and .his housekeeper, Margaret
Woleott
In granting the stav, Justice Guv said
hat so many papers had been submitted
in defense that he did not have time to
examine them before the hour set for the
execution.
NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL.
drugs act expect that the outbreak of in
fantue paralysis will tempt unscrupulous
persons to offer for sale so-called "cures'
for remedies for this dread malady. They,
therefore, have issued special inst rue-
here, from head to foot. We have plenty
of everything but money.
Yesterday Colonel Beeves gave us a
very interesting and instructive address,
followed by an address upon "freedom
tions to the toort and drug inspectors to hy our ri,apiHirii Thomas. Both parties
be particularly alert for interstate ship- tn Verv pood speakers and their
iiiriiw u. imFui milium in mciiii-i urn, talk s were en joved very much
makers of which allege that they will
cure or alleviate this disease, for which,
at the present time, no medicinal cure
is known. The officials also warn the
public that any preparation put on the
market and offered for sale as being ef
fective for tlie treatment of infantile
paralysis should be looked upon with ex
It still continues to be hot, but with
our new shower baths we are able to
tand it much lwtter than at first. We
were vaccinated for smallpox fcist Thurs
day, having taken the typhoid serum
some time ago. There is practically no
sickness in camp and all are happy. I
wish evervone who has friends or rela-
EXPECT CARRANZA
TO ACCEPT PLAN
reme suspicion. Inspectors, accordingly, t;Vp. ; ,4ma here would write, as the
nave men insirucien io regard hi sua- bova look forward to the mtul, and mucn
picious, and to collect samples of, all excitement is shown when it comes here
medicines in interstate commerce tor The bovs receive many packages from
.1- t- . . . . ...
wiuco. sucn claims are maae. .nailers ni home and everybody ha a "wack at tne
such fraudulent remedies will be vig- pat' or . readins of the papers.
orously prosecuted whenever the evidence AH for now, I will write a full ao-
warrants action under the Sherley 0Wint of mv first nicht in Eagle Pass. I
amendment to the food and drugs act remain.
Washington Officials Believe That He
Will Acquiesce in Proposed Exten
. sion of International Court's Power.
Waahintrton. D. C July 29. Officials
to-day looked for an early agreement by
Carranza to the suggestions for exten
sion of the powers of an international
oint commission to settle the border
difficulties, which accomplish the Ameri
can acceptance of Mexico's proposal for
that form of settlement. It wrill be two
weeks before the commission can meet.
President Wilson is understood to have
under consideration the following men
as the commission i Chief Justice White,
Major-General Goethals, Frederick I.h
man and Justice Brandeis of the supremo
court. !
Carranza was informed last night in
note handed to his ambassador herj
that the Washington government is pre
pared to submit to a joint commission
the task of seeking a solution of the bor
der problems.
The proposal to widen the scope of
subjects to be discussed by the commis
sion is viewed in administration circles
as an extremely important aspect of the
situation. It is through an exchange of
ideas on the whole Mexican problem
that it is hoped a way may be found to
furnish constructive aid to the de facto
government in the financial and economic
problems with which it is surrounded.
Mr. Arredondo Issued yesterday a
summary of of his advices from Mexico
City, saying that 10,000 Carranza troops
were dicing in on Villa and his followers
in southern Chihuahua, and that destruc
tion of the bandit command was certain.
It is the first official Mexican admission
that Villa ia still alive.
So-called remedies for infantile paralv-
sis which are offered for import into the
country will be denied entry.
The food and drugs officials are partic
ularly watchful in this instance because
it has been noted in the past that when
ever a serious epidemic exists, unscrup
ulous dealers prey upon the fear of ig-
Sincerely yours,
A." G. Edwards,
Co. H, 1st Vt, Inf.
The Eagle Pass Evenings.
Eagle Pass, Tex., July 25, 1916.
Editor of Times:
IVar Sir:
I will, as I promised, srh'e von my ex-
norance of the public by flooding the periences in Eagle Pass. I was allowed
market with worthless, hastily prepared to leave camp with two friends at 6:30
concoctions, for which they assert cura- on Saturday, July lfi, 1916. The camp Is
tive properties which have no founda- only abont '20 minutes' walk to the main
tion whatever in fact. In the present street. The streets here are much like
instance, Inspectors already have discov- our home town, but all one heiirs spoken
ered shipments of a few such mixtures. is Spanish.
The department will do everything it It seems verv ri'ieer to us to see the
can under the federal law to protect large mansions of the more prosperous
that portion of the public which is ex- j citizens, while all around them are hud
Has Been Established with Some Im
portant Aims.
Xew York, July 29. Announcement
as made to-day by the National Acad
emy of N-iencH of the establishment of
the National Research council, an organ
ization of the scientific authorities of ed-
cational and research institutions of
the country in the interest of national
efense, an idea which the academy re
eently submitted to President Wilson
and which received his immediate ap
proval.
"The purpose of the council," says the
announcement, "is to bring into co-op
eration existing governmental, educa
tional industrial and other research or
ganizations with the object of encourag
ing the investigation of natural phenom
ena, the increased use of scientific re
search in the development of American
industry, the employment of scientific
methods in strengthening the national
defense, and such other applications ol
science as will promote the national e
curity and welfare.
"The council will be composed of lead
ing American investigators and engi
neers, representing the army, navy,
Smithsonian institution and various sci
entific bureaus of the government; edu
cational institutions and research foun
dations; and the research laboratories
of industrial and manufacturing establishments.
"Committee already at work Include
those on nitric acid supply, preventive
medicine, dyestuffs, and other chemicals
rendered scarce by the war, and means of
communication for military and other
purposes.
The council will prepare a national
census of scientific investigators and
equipment for research in government
bureaus, educational institutions, re
search laboratories, and will utilize a
variety of means for promoting scienti
fic research in all branches of pure and
applied science,
The co-operation of many research
nstitutions ia already assured. As an
example of active assistance, Throop
College of Technology in Pasadena, -Cab,
has offered the fullest u-se of its research
facilities and in connection with this
Cbaracteriied the Cook St WiUon Showi
in Barre Yesterday.
Cook A Wilson got their rolling stock
and trained wild nniiuala out of the
Avers at reel purk last night in plenty of
time to make the needed connections for
St, Allans and with the departure of the
animal outfit, Barre' first eircu in two
vears was out of the way. Where the
show folks had the grounds pretty much
to themselves in the aifertiooii, there was
good sized crowd in the evening. Stress
on the merit of the animal performers is
well laid by the miow boowters, for there
was little else to commend in high terms.
Bears, lions, elephants and monkeys wriit
through their puces in a most creditable
nnnner and there were other features
that went to round out a fairly sattsfae
tory performance. More people hurried
into the city tor the evening performance
than were noticed in the afternoon. Last
night the managers said they were well
satisfied with their reception In Barre
and promised to drop into town again if
ever they route this way. Centre! Ver
mont railroad nfticialN in Barre opened up
space for loading the circus near Granito
street and by 10 o'clock the work of
transferring the show from Aycrs street
to the tracks was well under way.
Principally for the reason that gamb
"BREAKEPV
RU'CARS
Several PJred Profes
sional Strikebreakers Set
to Work in Bronx
MANY IMPORTED
FROM OTHER CITIES
Immediate Extension of The
Strike Expected In
New York City
New York, July 29. The immediate
extension of the street railway strike to
ling devices were conspicuously absent !,,e Third avenue system is predicted by
Mnd fakirs were not too numerous to be
counted, the police thought that circus
dav went off quite swimmingly. There
were no disturbances and if anybody had
felt the desire to start anything, police
officers, specials and regular, were every
where in evidence and trouble making
would not have been of long duration.
SOME FORGOT CARDS
in
Other Autoiata Had Them Hidden
Some Deep Recesses.
Odd lapses of judgment and queer eases
of neglect come to the surfdee in the
shuffle of a day s work linong autos
hurrying hither and yon, a fact that be
comes singularly clear in the light of
findings made bv Special Officer Patrick
Henry of Burlington in intercepting autos
on South Main street yesterday. Officer
Henry is working in the interests of the
secretary of state, who feels it incumbent
ufidn his department to see to it tit's t the
automobile laws are being respected. Oc
casionally eases of culpable negligence
come to light and then the officer is not
disposed to deal so leniently with the of
fenders. Yesterday Officer Henry spent a good
part of the afternoon In interviewing au-
toivts bound for the circus grounds in the
labor leaders. A strike on the Third ave
nue lines would inconvenience nearly
1,000,000 persona.
Several hundred professional strike
breakers, many of them imported from
other cities, were sent out on the cars in
the Bronx to-day. The officers of the
Union Railway company said that the
company is prepared for a long fight.
BODY BROUGHT FROM WIN00SKL
Mrs. Mary Lessard of Willlamstovvn Died
in Hospital There.
The body of Mrs. Mary Lessard. wifo
of Louis Lessard of Williamstown, jus6
over tfte Karre Town line near Granite
ville, was brought to Barre over the Cen
tral Vermont railroad this forenoon at
9:40 o'clock and removed to her late
home in M. J. Whitcomb's ambulance.
Mrs. Lessard's death at the Fanny Allen
hospital in Winooski Friday afternoon
at 5:45 o'clock followed an operation to
which she submitted Monday. She had
been a patient at the hospital for two
weeks.
Besides her husband, she leaves two
children, Arthur and Leo Lessard, a
brother, Joseph Thibault, in Grand Iide,
and four sii-ters as follows: Mrs. Theo
dore Beach of Barre, Mrs. Fanny Mor-
south end. Some had forgotten their ancv of Beflbe plains, Mrs. Delia Lazer
operator's licenses, a few pleaded guilty
to neglect in the matter of obtaining the
certificates, while others uncovered the
valuable little slips of paper only after
a cautious search. One offender of a type
that the department is seeking to ex
pose was driving his car about town with
one number on the radiator and another
plate on the rfar, neither of the numbers
coinciding. All names go down in the of
fleer s little notebook and daily reports
are furnished the office of the (secretary
of state. It Is believed that the footings
will be verv illuminating when Seeretarv
Bailey has checked up the officer's inves
tigations about the state.
MORGAN'S ESTATE REPORT
Shows $78,149,024 Exclusive of Property
Outside New York State.
- i,.i f ....i i i .u- i a n
bieiuciT iiouujuua ,11 i.iiiit-i wi unuii; ami u ru me liuve s in HIP iwui ri nai. i , , . 1 u
which will grasp at anything which the white citizens seem able to talk I , , , , . . , ,
KING NEARLY DROWNED.
promises protection or relief. The sal Spanish. The stores seem to make good
of such products at this time, the officials profits, as they charge about twice the
point out, is particularly threatening to amount for goods that we were in the
the public health because many persons, way of paying at home.
relying on the false statements of im- We went down to the international
postors, neglect to secure competent fridge. This bridge crosses the lUo
Grande, joining Kagle Pass with the Mex
ican city, Picdras Negras. There is a
guard on this bridge night and day. We
were not allowed to cross the bridge more
than half way, so we went over to visit
Fort Duncan, which is near the bridge.
This is where our mkery and base hos
pital are. A Barre boy is working in the
bakery here Thomas Sibley, lie has
been working here since we arrived and
is liking it.
After this visit we went strolling on
the back streets like the pen sketches
which I drew on the spot. It is very
Oriental and dreamy here at night, as
from every house or backyard one can
hear the guitar or mundulin. On pass
ing one house, we heard music and went
behind the house into a yard. A dance,
was taking place. It was the dreamiest
music 1 ever heard,
medical advice. As a result, not only
is the safety of the patient endangered,
but in the absence of proper sanitary
precautions, the likelihood of contagion
is greatly increased.
It must be understood, however, that
the federal food and drugs act applies
only to products- which are shipped in
interstate commerce, that is, from one
state to another, or which are offered
for import or export, or which are man
ufactured or sold within a territory or
District of Columbia. Products which
are made and consumed wholly within a
single state are subject only to such
state laws as may apply and are under
the control 'only of state health officials.
The federal law does not apply, for in
stance, to patent medicines made within
the state of New York and sold in New
York City. Persons buying or using a
"remedy" made in their own state,
therefore, must rely on the protection
accorded them by their local health authorities.
ON GRAND CIRCUIT.
endowment fund of one hundred thous
and dollars. Other institutions are
equally interested. The engineering foun
dation, under the auspices of the United
Engineering societies, has voted to co
operate with the council and to contrib
ute largely toward the expense of its
work of organization. President Wil
son has also written to express his full
approval of the plans of the council and
his assurance of the support and co
operation of the government depart
ment.
BOY'S BODY FOUND.
Wilbur Parent, Aged 11, Was Drowned in
Burlington Bay.
Burlington, July 29. The body of 11-vear-old
Wilbur Parent, son of Mr. and
Mrs. Joseph Parent, of No. 29 North
avenue, was found yesterday near
Crane's wharf in Burlington bay by
NewYork, Julv 29. Total assets of
the estate of J. Pierpont Morgan, the
financier, who died in Rome, Italy, March
31. 1913, exclusive of property outside
New York state, are fixed at $78,149,024
n a report which will be filed with the
state controller by Transfer Tax Ap
praiser Lvons, it was announced last
night.
Debts, administration expenses and
commission of the executors, amount to
$9,764,343 and deducted from the total
assets, leave a net estate of ?I58.3S4,680.
To be added to the net estate will be a
trust fund of $1,115,052 created in 1867
by Junius Spencer Morgan for the bene
fit of Frances Louisa Tracy Morgan,
which brintrs the total of the financiers'
property subject to the transfer tax laws
of New ork state up to 08,409.732.
John rierpont. Morgan, son of the de
scendant, is the largest beneficiary, the
present value of his share of the estate
being $53,084,918. The largest individual
item was a. legacy of $3,000,000.
The inventory and appraisal of books,
manuscript. and prints in Mr. Morgan's
library fill 1,072 typewritten pages. The
total value of books and manuscripts is
placed at $3,728,004.
The most valuable Item in the collec
tion of wntche wis a small one covered
with pearls appraised at $10,000.
The contents of his wine cellar were
valued at $44,743. the net value beinff re
duced to .oS,0,"8, as a reduction of 15 per
cent was allowed for leakage. One item
shows the financier had cigars valued at
?s)3!l at 30 Wall street.
of East Barre and Mrs. Maynard Wil
liams of West Topsham. Two niece
are also left.
Mrs. Lessard was born Mary Thibault
in Grand Isle 42 years ago. Her mar
riage to Mr. Ivessard took place June
16, 1903 and the couple had made their
home In Williamstown for several years.
It is expected that the funeral will be
held in St. Sylvester's church at Granite
ville Monday morning at 9 o'clock, al
though the hour has not been determined
definitely. The parish priest, Rev. Jo
sepr Turcot, will officiate and interment
will be made in the Catholic cemetery on
Beckley street.
A M0NTPELIER CARPENTER
Earl Sargent Died This Morning After
Two Weeks' Illness.
Earl Sargent, a Montpelier carpenter,
died in the Heaton hospital at 1 o'clock
this morning after two weeks' illnesa
with pneumonia and heart trouble. Ha
had been residing in Montpelier only a.
short time, having lived most of his life
in Moretown and Roxbury. He leaves
two sisters, one of whom resides in
Portsmouth, N. IL, and the other in
Springvale, Me. The latter is Mrs. Niles
R. Bnadccn.
WILSON UPHOLDS WOOD
General Right in Depriving Conley of
Command of 69th Regiment in
New York.
some of the mill employes.
The boy had been missing since the
After the music day previous, when he went swimming
stopped, there was no noisy applause like I with some other boys. The w harf is
Howland hall. The dancers kept walking ; partially destroyed and it is thought the
Christian of Denmark Was in Capsized
Boat
London, July 29. King Christian cf
Denmark had a narrow escape from
drowning yesterday through the capsiz
ing of a boat which he was sailing near
Aarhus, says a Reuter dispatch from Co
penhagen. The king was out alone in a sn.sll
sailboat when the craft capsized. He get away card. Lelia Patchen capture!
swam to the overturned craft and at the 2:05 pace by taking two heati in
. ! 1 - v 1 1 1 v: , ' I . ! . f 17
easy fashion.
The 2:12 trot went to Donna Clay in
Joan's Performance Was the Feature at
Detroit,
Detroit, Mich., July 29. The perform
ance of Joan, a bay mare driven by Me
Devitt in the 2:06 trot, u the feature
of the concluding day's card of the local
grand circuit meeting yesterday. She
got the decision in the headliner by win
ning the first two heats.
There were three other events on the
astride the keel, where his plight was
observed from the shore. Boats has
tened to the rescue.
15 GERMAN DESERTERS
Said They Couldn't Stand Anglo-French
Fire Without Going Mad.
London, July 29. An Exchange Tele
graph correspondent wires the following
roetsape fiom Maetricht, east of Bms-
h: "Fifteen German deserters from the
Somme region said it was impoib!e to
live through the Anglo-French artillery
r.te without enm? msJ. and they vr-
me xrenca nave maue con; projrea lerred cesertica to inwuuty.-
ann in arm until the music started an
other dance. I have drawn a picture of
this spot. No. 1.
When it grew dark, they hung barn
lanterns all around and danced until a
late hour.
The nights are very pleasant and cool.
One enjoys the nights after the hot days.
No one seems to work here, as most of
the Mexican people l-ep all day and then
dance or sing at night.
After leaving the dunce, we went down
to look across the Rio Grande from a
high point. The Mexican side of the riv- j
er seems to be the ""most fertile. YA e j
could see mime large fields ploughed and !
growing grain. I
I have heard lots or talk about the j
silvery" Rio Grande, but the silver must j
have been taken out of it before we came i
jhere, as all I have seen wis a dirty river
boy suddenly walked from the water
which is only a foot or two deep into
some of the holes which are over ten feet
deep. His clothes left on the shore were
the first clew to his whereabouts.
CANADA SENTENCES
FIVE AMERICAN
SAILORS TO JAIL
Guilty of Desertion Because They Ee
fused to Board Merchanman
Armed for Defense.
Montreal, July 29. The five ship en-
New York, July 29. President Wilson
has sustained the laction of Major Gen
eral Leonard Wood, commanding the de
partment of the hast, m depriving Col
onel LouiB D. Conley of the command of
the fiOth regiment of this city on the
ground of physical disability, it was
learned at Governor's island yesterday.
The president's action became known
when a departmental order of July 25
was made public, The order, which
states that it is a "corrected order" on
the Conley case, is signed by General
Wood "ov the order of the president and
the secretary of war," and -states that
Conley "is discharged from the service
Of the United States, to take effect July
20."
The order, it was said at Governor's
island, finally disposes of Conley's appeal
for a rehearsing of his case. He was
found physically unfit on the day that
his regiment was leaving Camp Whitman
for the border, together with his lieuten- .
ant colonel, John J. Phelan.
BOYS WERE APPREHENDED
Following Robbery in a St. Johnsbnry
Office.
St. Johnsbnry, July 29. The office of
Harry IL Carr was entered yesterday
noon and a money drawer containing $15
NECK WAS BROKEN.
three heats.
Tommy Murphy's Altawood took first! of mud. In many places one ran ford it
money in the 2:07 pace by making the j The Mexican p-ople C" swimming in it.
beat showing in tne cnal standing.
Arthur Whittemore Killed in Talc Mine
at Rochester.
Rochester, July 29 Arthur Whitte
more, aged 24 rears, was instantly killed
Wednesday morning w hile at the mina of
the Eastern Talc company. He was em
ployed as skip loader and was cai'gbt
by a descending skip, his neck and an
ankle being broken. He lived on the Di
mon farm and leaves a wife and one
child.
THE MENACE" BOMBED.
Anti-Catholic Publication at Springfield,
IlL, Attacked.
Springfield, 111., July 29. The Menace
We could see them from our side of the
rivrr.
We went down to the ic plant and
rwerhoue. which is on the river bank.
The machinery in th; plant is very mod
em and the place was very clean. After
visiting this, we went tt a Catholic fair.
It w much the same a fair in Barre,
o ! Publishing company plant was damaged j with the exception that it was hell out
f by a bumb and wns set afire to-dsy. It j biors in ti e wurf of the church. Dunc
- pubises an anti Catholic paper calk i ins. fn- m l the throwing of confetti
the
'Menace.
were the eveuui' aort. The Spaniii
and Mexican people were very much in
evidence here and the fees were spoken in
centavos and prsos.
The people here do not pronounce the
name of the Mexican leader as Villa;
they talk of Via.
We returned to erop at 10:15 and
went to ret. so u to be able to do our
duty the next day.
All for now ; more later.
Yours sincerely.
A. i. "K.lwrd.
Co. II. l.t Vk hd.
X- l . - 1 f
g.ncers, signed in .xew ! ... k. no re. usv, m anJ a clwk fof $(J wpn
on u eir arrnai nere rec nuv, io ",' Uter the pol'fe PI"-ehended Kenneth Be-
me snip nicy were ass.gnen i, ixt icj noit and uenrv Touwlntj H-vear-old
sne was armea wnn a gun erp vesiei
day sentenced to ten days in jail eah
for desertion. The court decided that.
as the ship was armed only for defense
purposes, the mrn's claim that she was
not a merchant ship was untenable.
boys, and $9 were recovered. The boya
were placed in charge of their parent
and their cases will be disposed of in mu-
nicipal court Monday.
AMATEUR SOLDIER WOUNDED
Fred W. McConkey, Jr, Got Ricochettlng
Bullet in Side of Head,
riattsburg. N. Y., July 29. Struck on
the i-ide of the head by a ricochetting
MORETOWN PARTIES IN SUIT.
Arthur H. Booth Seeks $4,000 for Person
al Inquiries.
As the result ot a al!egJ .-.ssault on (bullet as he was leaving the pits behinl
the Foirth of July, Arthur H. Booth the butts on tlie rine range at riattsBurg
of Moretown has brouch. suit in county i barrai k yesterday, l-red . McConkey,
court against -i ;i . i M. Mobl.s ?nd John i jr . of Portland. Me., was taken to the
f Tnner. also of M r-;wn. ask ro .- Post hospital lor treatment. 11 was
into ..r injuries vnlercl. John W. ij:-!fvJnd the wound was not serious.
don represnts the plain tiff. j
The assault t-ok place in front of de i
Booth boine, according to the speei'W-'
tions filed, and folloued the plaintiff , Several Hundred are Encamped 300 Mfle-i
request tli.t Mobha and his c.mp.inr n i of Border.
po somewhere else to o-h brute w ith fire ; IVmjrlas. Aril., Julv 29. Colonel Gar-
,-n.-ker. Acroriirjr to the pup-r l i'-d.cia and Frederick Mesa. Villa followers.
ith tne clrrk. Booth was tui iiv bea'en :ith force r,f several nundred men. are
a T, 1 has 1-en nnahb- to r-rk in.v then. rr.rtel to be encamped in Bermondi
Ihe -e i returnable at the JN-jleu b-.r mountain. 3'JU miles south of Ue bur-
ttiai of uuurt iar.
VILLA MEN LOCATED.
