F I
01
JIM.
a * * "Si ' 4 ?":4 ,, _yryr, R /a r YR "' :t.. 'Sr"r' ,' ~ y fi i - , ig. l ;'i
I Ar+
of F _ a'" } M" T r' .. .
jvw
?RYYt 't a '1VF yak -' Jim
" .crr.ri.Ai3a. fat .
1UNSTON $ENDS 00
MORE TILOOPS ACROM
BORDER TO PER I
Concentration Order Follows Appeal from
Head of Expedition for Re-enforcements
To Protect Line of Communications.
BORDER PATROL IS WEAKENED
Gen.'Funston Asks Washington for More Men to Guard
Frontier for Which Militia May Have to
Be Drawn On.
ury .OsCPE TIUMOSle.
laternatisoal Bews deawie.
San Antonio, April 18.-Gen. Funston today ordered to Columbus
approximately 2,500 men, now stationed along the border. They will be
under cornmand of Gen. Pershing and will be hurried into Mexico to
protect the line of communication, while troops of that line will be
sent forward to support the advance columns and guard extensions of
the line of communication.
Gen. Funston has asked for more troops for border patrol. He
'admitted this afternoon that he ordered the additional troops to Co
lumbus first and informed Washington later of what he had done.
The mote was in response to urgent requests of Gen. Pershing that
his line of communication be protected better against any contingency.
At 4:30, Gen. Funston said he had already ordered to Columbus the
Sixth Cavalry, scattered along the line in the Brownsville region and
the Seventeenth Infantry, doing border duty at Eagle Pass and that
vicinity. He said he would at once order to Coulmbus also the first
battalion of the Twenty-fourth Infantry and Troop L of the Tenth
Cavalry, from Fort Apache, Ariz.
Up to Washingto to Flad Men.
This is the most extensive troop move- AGA IN W
ment since the command of Pershing
entered Mexico. and indicates an inten
tion to be prepared for whatever may
happen. It will give Pershing one of
the largest forces ever commanded by
an American brigadier general. Carranzlsta Authorities Tell
Gien. Funston says ho leas asked for
more troops for the border, and it is ejhl of in
for Washington to decide where /tey
are to come from. The Coast Artillery
might be used as Infantry, or National
Guard organisations called out. or the M" COSU ATTARI1I.
few remaning regasants of the m
lead sent to the bodg.
Majl. Elliott has Msrermed Gen. Fan
ston that about fifteen carloads of for- Carralsha milttary onthorttha in
age and provisions sent to Chihuahua by Southern California have wamned Brig.
the Mexican Central by private ship- Gen John J. Pershing, coander or
pers for army consumption have been the American forces in Mexico, that any
held up there by Gen. Gutierrez, who attempt 0n the part of the American
has refused to let them be sent on to expedition to troceed farther south will
Fan Antonio. It is another example of load to seriois trouble.
"Imitation co-operation." Xsj. Gen. Frederick H. Funaton, In for
Doubt Cast on Villa's Death. wading this report to Washlngoo. is
El Paso, Texas, April l8.-Defnnite word understood to have described as threat
was eceIved In El Paso today by an eng the attitude of Carraosas men, and
El Paso busns an wIth interes Into have asked for further nsrcton
Cuslhulr.iachic, Chihuahua, that there Ge, Pershing Is understood to have
was nothing in the way of word to con- repor that the rm
grm the report that Villa had died at had instigators of
Ean Francisco deo Boris. or that his body the attack there upon the American troop.
had been located by officers of the Car- lnder Mai. Frank Thompson, in which
mona orce.attack two Americans wore killed, six
ransa force.
The information is the first to reach wounded and one reported as missing.
the border, with the exception of wires According to the report which Persb
received by the constitutionalist authori- log is understood to have sent, the Oer
ties. and though the wording Is guarded, msn representative was a conspicuous
it obviously Is intended to discredit the figure on the streets during the attack,
report that the body of Villa has been and appeared to be actively inciting the
found. Mexicans.
The scars, bruises, marks and pe- Several members of President Wilson's
ruliaritlies of the body that made Pancho Cabinet are said to be urging that the
Villa different from other men are be- expedition be withdrawn in view of the
ing assembled by the Department of German situation. The White House is
State for use when what purports to Insisting that only deinite proof of V)Ia'a
be the body of the bandit leader Is death would cause this withdrawal
brought to Chihuahua, or some other
plac, fo MenflcalonAfter receiving the Pershing report on
lace,the warning to American, Secretary o
Slav Ari~y Ta es ar Baker took It to Secretary of State
Slav Army Takesafenonng tr t
Black Sea Port hoar with President Wilson, He declined
comment on the object .his visit Be
f ore seeing the President, Secretary
fly latomastoal News Sereo). Bakecr said:
Petrograd, April 1.-The Russian ar- "We have given no orders to Gen. Funs
mes of the Grand Duke Nicleoles have tan that change In any way the character
captured the Turkish Black Sea port of of the expedition or its movement"
Treltzond, commanding point on the
principal trade route to Persia and Cen- NU SUE NW HAV
tral Asia. The city was defended by a
garrison of more than 50,000 men and Former Railroad Preeldeut De
huge field armies. mands 1200,000.
Official announcement of its fall was New York. April li-Charles . Mellen,
made tonight by the general staff.
The communication announcing the Siav en and /Hartford Railroad Company.
capture of Trebizond says: today filed fi the Supreme Court a suit
"Trebmond has fallen, due to the co- for to0,00 against the railroad company,
operation of our army and navy. H lee hssmi u i ne
"The army pursued the Turks wIthout trthomdwihheopayus
reopite after the battle of FrIday, over-bfoehrtrdaspsintIII.
congn incredible dlinfculties. The navy Healgstecmnygrdtoiv
permitted us to effect the moot daringilmWtayerfrv y satrhs
laanise and gays the troopa artIllery !trmO n ohl bmhrls
Fir Ab r Itaa Lilner. ta ih ebogh gis ~ o
Now Yark, Apuil l.-JE6 best she hsat hl rsdniosy h e
was acheduled to saIl for Naples todaytesoflwlesnc thttm ha
ire broke out en beard the armed Italian cs ~ IS
duer Goisoppa VerdI at her pier in Jersey
City. About balf of thase nger" s on ptn pIaPim et
beard wore recent arrivals in this coon- ~ Arli-ictt
try who hod bees ordered deported, Of.-h 05 flrStl ta be
Seials of thu line refused to say If the Im~~~atMeoctto eetee
ship earried war eplb.tOmridn Se5 tlahtte
-e la -------kin Dias. O nahl edetsmia.
few Tegh. AM- 3.-P. IL 4o Ia Beersa, ee e arjce yPe
who was pgssii ot Mgape. tor a short euitoa
.epbtle~P 4s~t',sb ib Cahe ra-n zVist Auth ries Te
Mmedta5~t ~ epinei m CPrshinge of Danger in~
seg4~aboto rCaaereeali-in nenerTtaa. rm. b n
B Woum eraClfri aewre rg
udt M" mers --sie
l.r sn dh t- e fa. r
Saef, wu hems If tlw sufra
gts bates bhoo a.w
Whe. the Deaseere and,
RepAieas -atiesI uevesn
tioss ae hel in June, taee f.
fragists are g:ing to be as
hand with two ig ardes.
This wil take -mst. Hene
this appeal was. issued to al'ad
vocates of "the cause" today:
"Do without new Easter
hats, suits or shpes, if neces
sary, and give the cash to help
send a delegate from your dis
trict to the parades."
Some women have taken the
matter so seriously that they
cancelled orders already placed
for Easter apparel.
BIG INTEREST
IN NEW POWER
Inventor of Substitute for
Gasoline Besieged by
Experts.
SEEKS TO DEMONSTRATE
DISCOVERY IN CAPITAL
(Er The New York Sa servies.)
New York. April I3.-Since Louis En
richt, the Farmingdale, L I., Investor,
announced that he had found a chemical
which would convert water into a sob
stttute for gasoline at ; tweetieth of what
gasoline costs, he has been besieged by
a coastantly augmenting procession of
chemists, motor experts, promoters,
mmnafeturers, and others who are
anxious to know all about the new motive
power which will "put the Standerd Oil
Company out of business."
"There will be n. mss demonstrations
for the present," an eallers were told to
day.
"There are two meen tfuen Washington
emterring with ay buspees repeensuta
the tode -a.it th et wgay ir lo
*ee the gu 44pmgmlt intesish
1na thsa gIve it to the wee, Se Wi""
ths i a dimen
"I have .eem dixteed to give n mere
demnstratiens of my chemical untir a
dssometration cn be arranged In Wash
ington."
A representative of Henry Ford wanted
to take Mr. Enricht back to Detroit with
him Bunday, but the Inventor decided that
if Mr. Ford wanted to buy the Invention
and .then give It to the world he would
have to go to Farmningdale to talk It over.
Teutons Win More
Ground at Verdun
(Soecial Cable 0. The New Tack Sa
and The Washngtoen Herald).
London, April 18.-The German infantry
attack east of the Meuse, launched yes
terday afternoon by 30.000 picked Infan
try troops, netted the crown prince part
of a salient cast of the Chauffeur wood.
west of Douaumont village, and 1.738
prisoners, Including forty-two officers.
Of this total only fifty men were
wounded.
It is frankly admitted here that yester
day's powerful onrush of the crown
prince's Infantry on the front between
the Meuse and Douaumont has shattered
all theories of German "exhaustion." The
French official report this afternoon
emphasizes that the attack was "of ex
treme violence." Berlin says that French
positions on a stone quarry, 700 yards
south of the Haudromont farm, and on a
ridge of hills northwest of the Thiau
mont farm, were taken. The French war
office claims that the enemy only pens
trated a first line trench and were partly
driven out of this position by a counter
attack.
L B. DAVI LEFT $280,000.
Correspoudeat's Widow to Pgreftt
Estate if She Weds Again.
White Plains, N. Y., April 13.-Richard
Harding Davis, the author and war oor
respondent, who died April it, left an es
tate valued at 1260,000. One of the pro
visions of his will, which was filed here
today, is that Mrs. Davis, who was Bno
ale McCoy, the actress, shalt have haalt of
-the income of the estate "as log en she
remains my widow."
After makng provision for' the division
of his personal property between his
widowni his uinse, Mrs. Nora Davis-Far
rar, of Turgooes, British Columbis. and
his hiother. Charles Belmoat Davis, of
New York, the will provides that the re
eanm'er of the estate shall, be held ih
trust for the benefit of hi. widow and
dagiter, Mope.
x -rdsi ea.. Ant 2L-Ulrd a e.
dime plumes, valued at BA0si al
tised hoe dern Easter fasiy wee Ssae
here today, They wore ases IA
s. which A. Kalssan was attesiugenhe
to itas.e the herder frm M&
Fedesat Judge Born. orered that ta
plumage he BUrned. togeh-- whh W
bird ekins which were enfa~ata
?r ese-Gesegal Finis Atn rg t
Suioealing--Oneig Plaeed
in N--omi~o.
The send day'e session of the tweet?
fifth coiigi'se Of' the Daugtiters of the
American evel ten-a .meies of fac
tional cages--ended Iast night in the
nomination' oee to succeed those
who retire this year.
Thirteen nemee were placed in anina
Tien for the sc of vice presIdents gen
eral to succeed tenice presidents ge
eral whoe terms expie this year. They
were as follows:
For re-eleelion. Mrs. George T. Small
wood. for the District; Mrs. George May.
ard Minor. for Connecticut; Mrs. Eilsa
Perry Leary, for Washington; Mrs.
ioseph S. Wood. for New Terk; Mrs. Al
vin V. Lane. for Texas; Mrs. Charles R.
Davis. for Minnesota.
New vice presidents general in nem
Inatlon were: Mrs. James F. Maupin,
for Virginia; Mrs. Geerge William Ged
ney. for New Jersey; Mrs. William
Gardner Spencer, for Temmneee; Mrs.
Harold Rivera Howell for Iowa; Mrs. C.
Hamilton Tebaui, for the state of Louisi
ana; Mrs. William H. Tabbott. for the
State of Maryland; and Mrs. William
Butterworth, ter the State of Illinois.
Neinmlatee Mem. Maupin.
Vice presidents general who were not
renomineted are: Mrs. Charles Clemnec
Abbott. of New Hampshire; Mrs. Samuel
W. Jamis. of Virgina; Mrs. Edmund
F.- Noel of Miesadusi. end Mrs. Will
lam H. Crosby. of Wisen==a.
Mrs. Jaison, the retiring vine pe
den -g neral, pined in neminstion the
names of MrJsames F. Maupin.
Mrs. Deles A. Blodgett. of the state of
Waeblngten , a-qr -
ln et eelreg A eeroeta geseml
01tndt eentst. "W 1lnaiseeon was
s-ssngsd by neast e Mtath roepro
seated at the congress.
Mrs. John H. Carey, of Indiana, and
Mrs. James Ross Mellen. ef Pennsyl
vana, were nominated for the office of
honorary vice president general.
For the office of editor of the D. A.
R. magasine, which is one that yes
terday brought about the first' politi
cal clash of the congress, two names
were pitced In nomination-Mrs. Amos
G. Draper. the present temporary edi
tor, and Miss Elisa O. Dennisto., of
Pennsylvania.
Polls for voting on the nominees will
be opened in Continental Memorial Hall
this morning at 9 o'clock. Spirited
lobbying on the part of the leaders
of the different factions has been in
progress since the delegates. began to
assemble in Washington and it is said
that each contest will be hard-fought.
Mrs. Story Given Chair.
The following were appointed tellers
for the voting today: Mesdames Joseph
Dearborn, chairman; Patton. of Wash
ington; William Taylor, of New Jer
sey; Harry Hyman, of Texas; Jeffer
son, of Minnesota; Thomas Bryan, of
Tennessee; C. H. Bisell, of Connecticut;
CONiruEuDg ON PAGE Two.
ITALIANS OPEN FIRE
IN TYROL MOUNTAINS
Reported General Attack Against
Teuton Line Wen Pelitioms
Along Alpine Crest.
Vienna (via Berlin wireless to Sayville).
April 8--Otucial.-The Italians have been
active at several places aeng the Isonzo
front. Two Italian aviators dropped
bombs on Trieste. Two MUvilians were
killed and several wounded. Our airmnen
drove the Italians off and pursued them
as far as Grade. Our aviators dropped
bombs which hit an Italian torpede heat.
Near Coldinia. the Italian Ace incrensed
to the Intensity of drum Are toward even.
ing. After midnight the Itatiamn started
a general attesk. whidh we reptdsed,
Later the Itallae succeeded In blasting
the weetern elde of the crest of Coldinia
at sereval plaoes and entered the posion
which, however. had prevlbesly bsen coin
plately destroyed. The' battle here is still
going on.
New York,. April 1I.-Annstte Eeoper.
nman was burned at the ste, thrown to
thi <mocsdfies and drooped over water
teebt she's beak again-4n good
- hee hsa returned froen
eleegsseet in Jasisi
ssi shere she-denied (that's her chief
soreuls ni sh aout Melf fest et
CoMh asn. lnsh,~~
rtaedee Agiti 1l)..4 isty beete. et
the cata shortsg inieraa threunth
est pewurk.Prises have a mme
nest~*dina end thanwmeaianam
Paris, Aprg z&-he Chain
der of Dipts, today desisI
to advance fhi aqdel -tine iw
France one hour. it is e~ctead
aa by this action, huge econo
mies will be noade through the
saviag of daylfght.
The action of the French
Caisaher of Deputies follows
closely on similar legislation by
the German Reichstag.
ENVOY ASKS
IGEL FREED
Bernstorff Protests Arrest of
Alleged Plotter in
New York.
CLAIMS PROTECTION OF
EMASSY IMMUNITIES
Seeretary of state Lal
has ordeed that Weft Vem ge2t.
secretary ot Frans vee Pape,
frner military attache to the
Gertman Embassy. be Imm-ediate
ly release frem eastedy If the
charge en whieh he has been ar
rested is seeseetles with the
pslt to blew up the Wets"nd Ca
na reeers ets rea es tted
after he beewme attaebed to the
German Emeasy here. Comet
es Bersterl. the German Am
bes., teek the maier up
with Coesetlr Polk. of the
State Departaseet, pleadiag that
voe ige/, aember of the
embey staf. was imm.s.e. fm
arest is the United states.
Tea ige's same at appeared
to the dlplematle register here
last December.
(my the New York San sere).
New York, April 1L-Wolf von Igel.
Capt. Frans von Papen's man Friday.
wshom Count von Bernstor sought in
goo to have listed as a lnembe of his
omals tstally buumuse frem arrest. was
nabbed this morning on a warrant
obrsgin -him with having dageded in a
m~itary enterprise to blow up the Wel
land Canal. His name was the fifth In
the Indictment charging Capt. von Papen,
recalled military attache of the German
mnbassy; Capt. Hans Tauscher and
others with being implicated in the plot
to destroy the Canadian waterway.
The arrest of Von Igel threatened In
ternational complications tonight. Count
eon Bernstorft requested the State De
partinent to release the defendant on the
ground that he was a member of the
Embassy staff, but United States District
Attorney H. Snowden Marshall said he
had been informed by the Attorney Gen
eral that Von Igel had no oonnection
with the German Embassy that precluded
his arrest for any crime.
Arrested at Point et Revolver.
Von Igel, a short but stocky Teuton
with pugilistic tendencies, sought by
force both to prevert his arrest and also
to prevent the seizure of documents and
papers scattered about his room at b
Wall street. He made a struggle, as
stated by George von Skal. his associate.
and in the struggle there was rough work
and the flourishing of a revolver by a
Federal agent.
In all seventy pounds of German docu
ments were found. These papers are said
not only to have revealed details of the
alleged plot to blow up the Welland Ca
nal, and to have laid here part of Von
Papen's schemes and some of the work
that was done after his departure. In
the omee was a safe bearing the seal of
the imperial German government, which
Von Igel slammed shut and locked, after
he was arrested. The contents of that
safe were not revealed.
Complicattes Threatened.
Nevertheless, if Count vpn Bernatorff, In
the name of his government. should back
up the demand afterward made by Von
Igel. and that he, Von Igel, is immune
from arrest, and that the papers must
be returned because they belong to the
German Ambessy, the Ambassador will
Ind himself, it I' reported, face to face
with a most embarrassing situation.
Fer him to elaim the papers as property
at the German embassy would be tanta
msunt to an admissIon, Federal authori
ties said, that the German Embassy was
angalsent of what amounts to crimitnal
activities on the pert -of German agents
is this country. Yen Igel is free under
uAm ball.
Last ef Genms. Spies Seind.
Centained in the papere, It is reliably
r~erted, was a full list of hunidreds of
Germen secret eanta In this ountry. Os
this tiet we ant alona sitisans of Ger
mnany, but Amns'iees and Guma-Aseer
itan., samne of them men eo- sealth end
3;l? -ma mbata. Ue at ge.
aneApril 1.-Three thepag eee
an( seveneen d---- ..
SO.an er shmbe apo
tR hebfter3.epreg
matin e ha imma taadma~a.3
CONGRES
ON U-R
President Expect
Tune Has Com
of Iplomat
BERNSTORFF Ki
Speech Will Be Folio
Virtual Ultimatum
Weary of Endless
President Wilson will go befor
to the German submarine issue.
Intimation came from high offi
dent already had determined upon
diplomatic relations with Germany
sion of the Senate and House at 1 c
Inmediattly thereafter, it is
will be handed his passports.
This announcement fell upon
dramatic suddenness, and brough
stage where severance of diplomai
consequences, seem inevitable.
SENATE VOTES
FOR ARMY BILL
Measure, as Passed, Is Hay
Bill in Title But Chamberlain
Bill in Substance.
PROVIDES FOR A REGULAR
AUT OF 250A SOLDIERS
After voting to increase the regular
puny to 2 .S000 the Senate passed the
army reorganization bill lact night. The
measure passed last night is the Hay bill
In title, but the Chamberlain bill in sub
stance. after being amended in many Im
portant particulars.
The bill as it passed. In addition to pro
viding for a regular army of Si.StO, car
ries the volunteer army prevision author
ising more than MUSS more, and au
thorises appropriation for increing the
ediciency of the militia of the States,
which will give a prospective military
strength of nearly GS,000 men in addition
to the student reserves provided for in
the Hardwick amendment.
One of the very close votes was on Sen
ator Brandegee's amendment increasing
the regular array to 5UR This was
adopted by the vote of a to 37. Partisan
lines disappeared, meat of the members
of the Military Committae voting for the
Increased strength of the regular army.
Senator Hitchcock. of Nebraska. offered
an amendment to Mr. Brandegee's pro
posal to fix the maximiu strength of the
regular army in time of peace at 15.OOt.
This failed by a vote of " to 13. Senator
Reed made a motion t keep the maxi
mum of the regular strength at 2i000
This was rejected by a vote of ii to 3.
The bill will go to a conference "om
mittee of the two Borses and it Is so
pected that there will be a long con.o
versy before the measure emerges : 4
form that will be approved by both
houses. The big feature of the considera
tion of the bill ye was the amend
ment to increase the redtar army. Sen
ator Hoke Smith. a Democrat, made an
earnest speech In favor of it, as did Sen
ator Hughes, of New Jersey, another
Democrat.
Flames Destroy
Arundel-on-Bay
S"de is t'e W--hhm aald,
Annapolis. Md., Aril l.-Arundel-on
the-Bay, a small summer resort, nine
miles southwest of Ansapolis, and sit
uated directly us Chess-eake Bay. col
mmod by summer cottagers of Balti
moro and Wasbtgton was almost coe
Plaely devastated by flre this afternoon.
The dames, that started froms a bruih
and woods fire, were swept by a gale
frees the northwet and rapidly licked
their way towards the 1thirty odd cu
taa us the bluf above tbe baeb. The
are raged throughout the attemuoon. To
night, only half a deem of tho dwelllsgu
remsain, the others are a mesa of solder
lg embersi
Thomas W. Smith. a Woshtagten hum
ber merchant, whe fer several yeara haa
served as mayor of the blie aImmer
towa, probably suieted the heaviest les.,
-Tree of his eottages, basedlg that gee
rally occuapied by his dsly, woe de
strod, and a fourth badly bassaged.
Other WaintOahma wo sttage
were burned are. J . Nphfs,~ two
welings; Mrs. M. I. Webs P . Me.
Intyre, tAwts 3aitat. T. Lbseet
srsnd Mme Anos Wanday, Dr.
eseb.ans 3. esam.a
Meat of the eeots M Ms
The less Uht M il
STaIDAY
DAT ISSUE
ed to Annouce
e for Severance
ic Relations.
kY GET PAPERS
wed by Forwarding of
to Berlin-Wilson
Correspondence.
e Cgegress this afternoon in regard
dal sources last night that the Preui
the necessity of a severance of
and would so inform the joint ses
'clock this afternoon.
understood, Count von Bernstorff
official Washington last night with
t the subiarine controversv to a
ic relations, and even more serious
b
fte e. rellow Address.
The President's note to Germany. wbich
to virtually an ultimatum, demanding that
Germany cease her Illegal methods o!
submharine warfare. ha been held up. It
will be foraarded after the President ha
addressed Congress.
No authorltatlve statement was fcrth
coming last night concerning the Prei
dent's address, and as a result many and
aried reports were in circulation.
There Ii no doubt that the President at
leant intends to inforan Congress today
that his communlcation to Berlin is a dc
cIsive stap whic Iaves the Unied States
no alteMNMet.e eset to suer dipimatic
{iatons In Case Germany fals to seai.
this last chance to modify her ethods of
sutmarine warfare to meet the Iait
dent's implied demands.
The only difference of opinion that
existed in Washington lart night in regari
to the President's appearance before Con
gress was as to whether he left Germany
any loophole for further concessions
The general Impression was that he had
left such an opening, but that It was of a
character which offered seery little hope
and that the President had made up ut
mind that a break with Germany was
now hardly to be avoided.
Will outline Progeam.
The President had promised leaders in
Congress that he would take nn decisl e
step without informing that botly of his
purpose. The President regards the mot e
which he is about to take ae a declstle
etep and In appearing before Congress
today he will be fulfilling his pledge
It was learned last night that the
President's address to Congress will he
of such a character that It will fore
close any attempt to renew a disrussion
similar to that which occurred In Con
gress recently oser the Mclaemore res
olution. The President will not ask for
the passage of any resohrtlon but wit:
merely recite facts and outolin the ac
tion which he Intends to take.
Before the President goes before Con
gress he will confer with Sdhater Stone,
chairman of the Senate Foreign Rela
tions Committee. and Senator lodge, of
the sme committee. and with Chair
man Flood and Representative Cooper.
of the House Conihittee on Foreign Af
fairn
Count von lernetorff. the German Am
bassador. had a ten minute conference
with Secretary of State Latialng yester
day afternoon and stated speSoaltny af
ter the conference that he and Secadtary
Lansing were to talk mattera es-e in
a few days." This clearly indioat. it It
eplained. that all hope has set 5et
been abandoned by the President for an
eleventh hour adjustment of the 411
culty.
Russian Feeling
Strong for Peace
SpatIal cabl. in-.The Wdingero enasid.
IParia. AprIl it--One of the reasons
whIch led to the prorogation yeater
day of the Rusatan Duma by a epeciat
importal nkeae was the increaaing ag.
tatiom on the part of some emembers
of the Rusalan partlament for a sepa
rate peace wIth thte central emplres
AuthentIc Informnatlon to thin effect
was oainend In oftecial headquarter.
here today.
A document in behalf of peae,
eigned by 150 promnent nien, accord
leg to the revelations made In the
Duma, declared that It would be a
proper couree to pursue sto "avert fur
ther misery for Rasla nless there ex -
lae an abselate certaInty of Rusam
yIetory."
Min hMwb l9Tg.
,ar4 Aprel 1-P ruf. 3. Meek Ualdwta
usd1e, that there has been a promosapad
Ia kin laleta a
mthe las twe daya.
