1fi"l
Owning
l&zitntt
EXTRA
-EXTRA
-I
yoi. n. no. 187
PHUDADEIiPHIA, "WEDNESDAY APBIIi 19, 1910.
fciridE one .crifcte
Connonr, 1916, at'tni PoMo Ltrxiti Courier,
sr
GREAT TURK
STRONGHOLD
WON BY CZAR
VILLA'S NURSE
MAY POINT OUT
BANDIT GRAVE
WILSON WILL TELL CONGRESS
TODAY BREACH SURE UNLESS
BERLIN YIELDS TO DEMAND
President's Address and Dispatch of.
Note May Be Followed by' Bern
storff's Dismissal and Recall
of Ambassador Gerard v
fW-
W-
QUICK NEWS
,.v.
. t. 4
FIND -J 4-YEAR-OLD RUNAWAY BOl
: fa -
J
m
It:..
f
' ,
.Trebizond Defenses
Smashed by Combined
Land and Sea Attacks
&AD GARRISON OF 50,000
jPkct Exdcuted Audacious Plan
of Landing Troops While
iFortress Was Bombarded
PETBOGRAD, April 19. The
Turkish garrison of the Black Sea
port 'of Trcbizond escaped capture
when the city was occupied by the
Russians under General Indcvitch, but
Is being closely pressed by the Slavs.
The Turjts nrc expected to make their
Btand six miles west of Trcbizond.
PETROGRAD, April 19.
Tho Russian, nrmlcs of tho Grand Duko
Nlcholns havo .captured tho Turkish Dlnclc
Sea port of Treblzond, commanding point
on the principal trade route to Persia and
Central Aula.
The city was defended by a garrison of
more than CO.000 men mid hugo field
armies. Oftlclat announcement of Itn fait
was made last night by the Gcnernl Staff.
SB foljoWSf
Treblzond has been taken. Tho
united energetic efforts of our Cau
casian nrmy and Black Sea fleet
have been crowned by tho conquest
of this fortified town, tho most Im
portant jostlon on tho Anatolian
coast.
Our valiant troops, after tho san
gulnury battle on tho Hth on tho
Kara Dorct River, pressed tho Turks
without rcsplto and -surmounted In
credible obstacles, everywhere break
ing the florco resistance, of tho Turks.
Tho wol'-comblnod action of tho
' fleet; permitted tho execution of most
hazardous landing operations and
lent the support of Its artillery to tho
troops operating in the coastal region.
Credit for this fresh victory is due
to the assistance given the Caucasian
army by the troops operating In other
directions in Asia Minor. By their
desperate fighting and heroic exploits
they, did everything In their power to
facllltato the task of the -detachments
' on the coast. , ,H
Vest of Erzerum' our' troops; after
t ;.; .sharp engagement, dislodged- tho
.Turks, from d whole -terles-ot'poWer- .
f ully J Organized positions.'- s, ' .
i -"The,", fate pt .Trcbizond was. .hastened
"- -lit Is believed,- by" a'VIgordus bombardment
by Russian nvlators. They are reported
to novo dOna 'great damage.
,
URGE OPTIO'N IN BERKS
No-License League Organizes Com
mittee for Nonpartisan Campaign
REAPING, Pa April 10. No separate
i local option ticket will be' nominated In
Berks County, .but membors of the No
Iilconso League have organized a com
mittee of ten to work for local option
candidates of any party with which they
may be connected. After the primaries,
similar aid will 'be given by the league to
local option candidates, regardless of
party.
TWO BARNS BURNED
' Young' Farmer Nearly Loses Life
S Trying to Save Horses
'. LEWISBURa, Pa.. April .19. A fire
which threatened many farm 'buildings
vaa extinguished, nfter the barns of A.
F. Rlahel, on the Chamberlain farmland
the barn of 'William Dewlre, on the, James
Pa.cker farm, two mllea north of here,
tfwere destroyed. The fire started In the
'Jllshel barn, where they were baling hay.
' Clarence Rlshel nearly lost his life while
Attempting to save the horses. He was
overcome by smoke and was rescued by
' his father.
Noonday Lenten Services
in City's Centre Today
EPISCOPALIAN
' QJd Christ Churchr2d street
nbpve Market 12:30 to 12:G5 p.
m. Speaker, the Rev. Norman Van
Pelt Lewis.
Old St. .Peter's, 3d and Pine
streets 12:05 to 12:30 p. m.
Sneaker, the Rev. Charles S.
Ifutchinson, D. D.
.j Garrlck Theatre, Chestnut street
west of Juniper 12:30 to 12:55 p.
m. Speaker, the Rev, II, Percy
Silver.
Old St. Paul's Church, 3d street
below Walnut 12:30 to 12:55 p.
m. Speaker, the Rev. Llewellyn N.
Caley.
-St, Stephen's Church, 10th street
above, Chestnut 12:30 to 12..55 p.
m. Speaker, the Rev. Robert John
son, Ir D.
CATHOLIC
St, John tho Evangelist, 13th
street above Chestnut 12;05' to
12:30 p. m. Speaker, the Rev, Eu
gene Burke.
StJoseph's, 311 Willinga alley
12!05 to 12:30 p. m. Speaker,
the Rev, John D. Butler, S.J,
LUTHERAN
St. John's, 6th and Race streets
-12:30 to 12:65 p. to. Speaker,'
the Rev, O. Armand',MHer, D. Dt
PRESBYTERIAN
First Presbyterian Church, 7th
and Locust streets 12:25 to 12:50
p. m. Speaker, the Rev. John
Grant Newman, D. D.
Arch Street Presbyterian
Church, 18th and Arch streets
12:15 to 12:50 p. m. Speaker, the
gev, John Allan Blair, P, D.
i.QS'e &m i'ounh
OIHSKA , CWSSB8. itiir of Merl. lot
lt: mwtt Tck'lJlivM Ctneuut Hill TSJ.
tr
fsM
unmim
mm l-t w! rm -4- xi fut, 1
Mexican Officials Promise
to Produce Body of
Outlaw
NEW FORCE TO PERSHING
Carranza Again Demands With
drawal of Punitive
Expedition
EL- PASO, April 10. By orders of
General Alvnro Obrcgon, Minister of
War in the Carranza Government,
American soldiers will be attneked
shoutd they enter any Mexican city or
town in the future. The attitude of
General Obrcgon was shown in a
proclamation posted in Pnrrnl nftcr
the recent clash there.
The proclamation was brought by a
refugee nnd turned over to General
Bell here. It concludes:
"As Mexicans we arc called upon to
defend our country. Any future at
tempt on the part of the expedition
ary forces to enter Mexican towns
will be met with armed resistance."
MEXICO CITY, April 19. Scnor Ama
dor, sub-Secretary til Foreign Relations,
today declared that lSllseo Arredondo, am
bassador designate of the do facto gov
ernment at Washington! had been In
structed to demand the withdrawal of tho
American troops In Mexico. ,
Tho do facto government Assorts tho
Villa bands nro completely dispersed and
the presence of tho troops Is no longer nec-t
cssary. The belief prevails here that the
demand will bo granted by President Wil
son. Tho War Department states that tho
nurse at villa's deathbed has been cap
tured and gives details. Tho nurso will
guide Carranza oIHcers, accompanied by
one American, ofllcer, to tho. grave.
Juarez officials here- still believe that
Villa's body has been found, although no
confirmation of tho report was received
today over Mexican -telegraph' lines'.'' pm-'
cers 6C the de facto government calf 'at
tention 'to tho fact that Villa never has
been reported south of San Francisco.
.Bqrja. Whore h!a bpflx Is, sdld , tor havo.
been located, and that the AmerlcanTOfcea.
proceed over the.Durango-Chlhuiliua Uric.
If Villa's body has been found: It should
reach CuBhuIrlachlc norac tlmo within- the
next 48 hours,-' ' '
Explaining the' faith ,d'f Carranza offi
cials Ih 'the report' that Villa's body was
found at San Fnfnclsco Borja, Mexican
Consul parcta at El Paso said today
"Our belief In Vllla'a-death-ls as strong
as overhand wo expect otllcinl confirma
tion any moment, because wo know tho
dlfllcultles In transportation nt Cuslhulrla
chlc. It must bo remembered that the
body must be carried over a. rough moun
tain trail of 40 miles or so, and doubtless
requires delicate handling. Every one.
In the district around Cuslhujnrlachlc be
lieves the report. Tho telegraphor at San
Antonio told us he could stake his lifo on
Its being true."
2300 ADDITIONAL TROOPS
RUSHED TO PERSHING'S AID
SAX ANTONIO, Tex., Aprll19.
General Funston Is sending to General
Pershing 2300 additional troops, and. It
'was learned today, thero Is reason to be
lieve that more will be dispatched If tho
campaign against VJUa Is continued.
The troops which have been ordered to
General Pershing's base at Columbus are
now on dutx along the border. What
troops wlH relievo them and where they
will come from was not announced. The
War Department, It was said, will Have
to' authorize the sending of the few re
maining troops In the United States Into
this department, or tho filling of the
vacant p6nts may be lert to tho State of
Texas, which may send militia.
The troops selected for General Per
shing are the 6th Cavalry, from tho
nrownayllle district: the 17th Infantry,
from Kagle Pass; Troop Ii. of the 10th
Cavalry, from 'Fort Apache, Ariz., and
'one battalion of tho 2ith Infantry, one.
company of which- is at El Paso, one at
Marfa, and another at Fabens., Marfa
Is just north of OJInaga, on the Mexican
frontier, and Fabens la on the Bio Grande'
only a few miles from Kl raso.
In addition to these forces, deneral
Pershing now has in his base guard at
Columbus 800 men, but the necessity of
maintaining at' least that many there la,
recognized. - -
Stnff officers here were convinced some
days ago thatunlcsa VHIa was taken be
fore lie got beyond Satevo, the chances of
getting him were remote. That point has
been reached, and Villa remains' at large,
or Is dead, and to that situation Is added'
an undisguised hostility of various Car
ranra organization that army men here
declare makes doubly necessary the
.strengthening of Oeneral Pershing's force.
AUTO KILLS BABY GIRL
. RIDING IN GO-CART
New .York Drivex' Fails to
Sound Horn Mother nd
Two Others Hurt
NEW TOBJC April 19 An (nfant 8
weeks old was instantly killed. QPd tnrea
other persons Were Injured last, plght
when they were struck by an .nutomoWle
at .Amsterdam avenue and" 126th. street
The driver, Gerald J. '.Brady, of ? Neptune
terrace. New Rochelle, was locked up lj
the West 135th Street police Station ffter
witnesses had asserted ) bad not sounded
his, horn. "
The child was Maria Burke, of StO
West ISeth street. Her mother. Margaret
was wheeling her through the thorough.-1
fare In baby carriage, WJtb. Mrs. Burke
-was her brother. John Melican, of 540
West 129th street, and his 10-year-old son,
Thonufs.
Without warning, the Injured person
my. tb machine came upon thm All
were; hurled to the pavement Mrs. BUrke
suOTwwt irutu nhocfc and InMtrU jo the
b$k. WUcn and hJ $m bmjd,
Brad? sd fc H as M t UtU
tfoua imtii hft mi ujwn it .
Copyright ! International Film Hcrvlcc.
WOLF VON IGEL
German Embassy secretnry and
intimate friend of Frnnz von
Pnpen, who was arrested after a
hard light by Government agents
in New York, following his in
dictment ns a conspirator in the
Wellnnd Cannl plot.
BRITISH CAPET
IAY SPLIT TODAY
OfeONSeRiPTIG'N
itiife. of .,'Coaiitiori Ministry
May Be Decided Today.
Crisis Grave
ASQUITH DELAYS STAND
LONDON, AprlNs. The Dally Chron
icle's Parliamentary correspondent In this
morning's Issuo of that paper says:
"The, Cabinet crisis assumed an oven
graver' character yesterday and last night
thero were only faint hopes of nn accom
modation being, arrived nt. In fact. It is
no exaggeration to say that tho life of
tho coalition Is hanging by a thread, which
may bo snapped In the course-of today.
"The dividing lino is, the question of
general . compulsion. It Is now certain
that unless the Cabinet today decides to
take somo step in that direction, not only
Mr, Loyd George, but Bonar Law and
nil the Unionist members of tho Cabinet
will resign. Whether In theso circum
stances Premier Asqulth could carry on
a bold reconstruction of his Government
on a liberal labor basis is highly prob
lematical. "Thero remains the other possibility
that a majority of the Cabinet may, after
all, decide In favor of general compul
sion on the ground of necessity and of
conviction that without It the number of
men required by-the army council between
now and next December could not be pro
vided. Any decision of this kind, how
ever, would mean the retirement from the
Government of the three labor ministers.
"A. meeting of the Parliamentary Labor
party- was held last evening, and after a
prolonged discussion a resolution V car
ried against any further extenalo'hVc.f-the
principle of compulsion.
"Today's Cabinet council will probably
decide tho fate of the coalition. Mr.
Lloyd 'Geofgo has submitted a proposal
for a bill In favor of general compulsion,
with the promise that compulsory powers
are only to be exercised If the yield of
unattested married men under the new
voluntary recruiting plan falls short of
S 0.0 00 per month.
"It U possible that. a majority of the
Cabinet may accept this proposal, but
labor will be no party to Jt.
It is understood that the army council
desres tl)e guarantee of a steady In
flow of pen right to the end of the year
and there la no certainty that this guar
antee can be provided In the absence of
the general question."
WOMAN FOUND KILLED;
OFFICERS HUNT NEGRO
Victim Beaten to Death' in Bed,
Suspected Slayer
Disappears
T
' 'In bed, her face and the upper part of
her body blood stained and bruised, Mrs.
Nellie Sweeney, a widow. 31, years old,
was found' beaten to death early todoy in
a .tenement house at 1007 Poplar street
Search is being made for John Suds, a
negro, 35 years old. who lived In the same
house.
; -Ernestine Dawey. 35 yeara old, an
other occupant fc( the house, Is being held
as. a material. wHoes? by the police of
the 8th and Jefferson streets station:
Mua Dawley" Tan, out pf the house
about 6.30. o'clock this morning, shriek
ing for help. She found Pollcemenn'an
Dyke, and GlUman. And told .them Mrs.
-Sweeney has wn muraereo. The police
man jouno me woman. cuvy, partly
ditsail,' yta in the bd. Bw tm wa
butu. both &rta were blackened and I
tfc Hre right i4 f the ody vut
Mruuco.
Executive Will Recite Violations of Promises Made by
Berlin and Will Announce His Determination
to Cut Off Diplomatic Relations,
Officials Declare
WASHINGTON, April 19. Grnvcly npprchensive, ConRrcss and the
Nation today waited upon President Wilson.
For the first time in years the dignified offices nnd corridors of thef
Capitol, th Senate and the House, office buildings were crowded before eight
o'clock.
Groups of excited members, In almost total ignorance of what the day
might bring forth, but confident that great events were impending, gathered
to talk things over.
From the meagre information available there developed a feeling that
before nightfall the long-expected crisis in the relations between this country
and. Germany would be reached.
PARIS, April 19. President Wilson bases his conviction that the Sus
sex was torpedoed partly on the affidavits of two Americans, which wire
forwarded to Washington by Ambassador Sharp, it was learned on good)
authority today. Both Samuel Semis, of Medford, Mass., and Miss Gertrude
Warren, of St. Louis, swore that they saw the' wake of a. torpedo.
WASHINGTON, April 19.
As tho next to tho last stop in his long and patient effort to bring
Germany to n proper respect for the laws of nations and her solemn pledges
to the United States, President Wilson will go before both houses of Congress
nt 1 p. m. today.
The President will say that Germany has shown herself unfit for friendly
relations and that he has determined to break those relations short off.
Congress will not be naked for advice or authority. It will simply be asked
to listen to a statement of fact.
Jt is expected that the President's address will still "give ''Germany a
last opportunity to come to terms- But the fact that the President will lay
tho- case before -Cojigesa shows that, he expects .no -such action; 'Germany
has said repeatedly that she cannot dfs'continuo her submarlno warfare- Jho -
harshest of tho many noted tile President has sent to- Berlin, was nut fn code
this afternoon and ia ready for. tho cable. This.communicntiqn is now; intended
for transmission udmo time after the President makes (s address to Con
gress. When it goes, if circumstances still require its sending,, the' continu
ance of diplomatic relations between the two, countrlees will have to depend
wholly upon Germany. The United' Statcswill have spoken its last (word.
The President-will not mince words in his address to Congress. He is
determined that Congress shall know tho Jong series Of o'ffenses which Iio
purposes to bring definitely to an end. He read his address to the Cabinet
this morning, and he nnd his advisers have no doubt that the case ho will pre
sent to Congress can lead to but one verdict. Indeed, the President's address as
now written carries the verdict in it, and this verdict is that Germany has
violated every law of nations, has broken every solemn promise to the United
States and is no longer worthy the acquaintance of self-respecting people.
Carrying Out Promise to Congress
Tho address of tho President today is not expected to announce in
itself that relations with Germany have been ended. When the armed ship
crisis over the McLemore resolution, in which Congress gave the President
a signal triumph over tho recalcitrant members of the two houses, was near
its satisfactory issue, it was formally announced in the House that tho
President wouldconsult Congress before taking a definite step. Tho Presi
dent today will scrupulously carry out that understanding and tell Con
gress what he proposes to do.
A member of the Cabinet said this evening that what the President would
say to Congress wou!dgivo no opportunity for a repetition of anything like
the controversy in Congress over the McLemore and Gore resolutions. ,It is
known chat there is a minority in both houses opposed to courageous action.
Tho statement, therefore, that thero will bo no opportunity for congressional
dispute can only' mean that tho President will show that things have gone
so far that there can bo no drawing back. Congress can then only join the
President in waiting for Germany to show her hand, hoping that Germany
will return to reason and law and tho observance of pledges.
As a symbol that the time for all partisan divisions is past, the Presi
dent has arranged to see at 10 o'clock this morning the ranking mem
bersboth Democratic and Republican of the two committees dealing with
foreign affairs Senators Stone, of-Missouri, and' Lodge, of Massachusetts,
and Representatives Flood, of Virginia, and Cooper, of Wisconsin. Yesterday
the President intended to seo Mr. Stone alone, but the effort to arrango an
interview with Senator Stone was abandoned, and it was decided to consult
with tho whole of Congress.
Expected to Announce Prospective Break
As sketched last night, the President today will lay the whole situation
before Congress. He will review the mass of evidence in the long list of
German outrages review it like a judge, said one last night. Then he will
state his conclusion that Germany has been guilty', guilty in many ways of
many different offenses. And his conclusion will be that there is only one
thing for the United States to do. What this would be was not told, but
everything that was said made it plain that the President would announce his
intention to break off all relations. '
Exactly when tho American communication to Germany will go forward
Is not known. That Is the one, element of uncertainty 3nthe situation, It
was said last night authoritatively that it would go "subsequent to the address
to Congress." It is not plain, however, whether there will be an interval
between speech and written communication in which Germany may have time
to give full satisfaction.
If there, is (his interval and the note goes forward at the end of tt, it is
not unlikely that Germany will be regarded as having rejected her oppor
tunity, and the communication may conclude with the statement that rela
tions are in fact broken. If the communication is dispatched immediately
after the President's address, it will probably be more in tho form of an
ultimatum demanding prompt compliance than of an announcement of accom
plished facts, v
While things have moved rapidly only since Monday, the President has
been, carefully measuring the steps he might have to take. Six days ago he
outlined at the Jefferson Day dinner the circumstances under which the United
States would be justified in taking extreme measures, More definitely still,
he repeated this thought yesterday to the Daughters of the American Revo
lutions And all the while the causes of resentment against Germany were increas
ing, till now Jhe, SpSsex case, which loomed big a week ago, is only one of
many incidents. Since the attack on that unwarned and unarmed liner four
ships have, been attacked by German and Austrian submarines in violation,
of pledges to. the United States.
Count Ypn BemstornT g;ot an inkling of the-drift of things yesterday after
noon, when by aj. appointeMjl h had requttd, ho saw; Mr. Lanaingr for t?
miftulw His appointm,it rs da Moaday iy t$graph before Captaia
Vnm. ,
Trancis Wolfcndcu, 14 years old, who' ran away from hie home.
13 Western avenue, two weeks ago, was picked up- at 23aantl MnsUf
streets today by Policemen Douglas and Wlndle, of thi 28th nui
viuiu viecia sinuun.
NORWEGIAN SHIP SUNK,' CREW RESCUED '
i
LISBON", April 10. The Norwegian steamship Tcrjo Vikcn hab
been sunk. The crew' was' rescued. The Tc'r-Je Vikcn "displaces 357tf
tons' and -was 035 feet l6n. She was built In 1!?03 nncf owned kV
Taiisbcrn). , "".' J .
' ' i . A ' '
. f.'l i-
DR. WAITE FOUND "SANE, BUT. SOMEWHAT ABNORMAL
NEW l'Omc, 'April 10. Alienists who spent more than an hour cxambiwiT ,J
Vv. Arthur Warren Walte, confessed Blaycr of Ills father-lrl-law, -John jURtfimii
a wealthy drufr manufacturer of Grand Rapids, Mich,, reported to DUtrie4ffiiifc'
torncy Swarm last night that In their opinion Waito Is "sane, but- .Bomeifnlit.
abnormal," '"'
RUMANIA PLANS TRADE PACT WITH AUSTRIA, TpO
BEIILIN, April 10. A report received hero from Bucharest, says the, Oysr i
b News Agency, Is to tho eficcl that a trade convention similar to - that I
twecn Germany and Rumania will bo
Altatl'tn.HllMrrn tr nti,1 T)umnnln
MELLEN SUES NEW HAVEN ,FOR $138,222 BACtf PAY
NEW YORK, April 19. dairies S. Mellon, former president ot the New
York, low Huven nnd Hartford Railroad Company, has brought suit against that
company In tho Supremo Court for J38.222.S9. Sixty thousand dollars of the
amount Is for two ycars""pay under an ngrccment which Mr; Mollen, said he,
mado with tho company to pay him' ?30,000 a, year for five years.
GALLIPOLI- HERO WEDS AMERICAN NURSE
LONDON) April 19. Trooper Larkin, of tho Australian imperial force, oneot ,
tho heroes of Gdlllpoll, married in Dorchester yesterday Mls3 Alice Davis..'
pretty Virginia girl, who.han been nursing, him at the County Hospital there!
SPAIN HOPES TO BRING PEACE CONGRESS TO MADRH3
WASHINGTON, April 19. Tho Spanish Foreign Office.lt is said' herev.te:
sent a circular noto tq ,tho three principal 'Powers. oS-TtrtM'mWIcaojlWj
United States and to BOme of the neutral States, rif EuroneiVkwJtth-"
them to use, tficlr Influence with tho warring nations lfiji'J.SnducinKUjwist- ;
ta.J10fa.4ho peace- congress In', Madrid. Spalnlt Is--declared rerifSSfcifei., ,.
tho conduct of htrrYoflftlond' wjtfi ftl)
question from any respecting her 'neutrality.
PRESIDENT YUAN AND REBELS PARLEY;.-
AVASHIKGTON, April 19. An armistice Jms been declared between Chtn
rebels nnd President Yuan Shlh-Icai and peace, negotiations nro in progress, th
State Department lioj, been Informed by tho American Minister at, Pekth.
Prominent leaders .of both factions are endeavoring to reunite ,the prdvlnoes.
FRENCH WARNED TO MAKE MORE MUNITIONS
PARIS, April 19. A warning that Franco must make StiU'i'Breater efforts,"
was given by Albert Thomas, tho Munitions Minister, at the 'Crbusdt Works
M. Thomas praised tho efforts of tho workers and continued: "Btit trlese efforts,
great as Hhoy are, are BtUl Insufficient. Tho enemy had a. considerable advantage
over us, which wo perhaps have not yet regained. You, Jcnow bow the eneniy
with his methodical, disciplined organization, has constantly- Increased his .
strength. It is your task to continue to surpass our production, and with ths"
help of our allies to equal the effort:, of
DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS TONIGHT ON SUGAR TAX BItL
-"WASHINGTON, April 19. Majority Leader Kltchln reported last night to. th
House that the conferees of tho House
tho sugar bill. Today he 'will ask tho
favoring absolute repeal of tho free sugar
amendment to postpone placing sugar op
caucus of Democratic Senator has
situation.
SERB TROOPS BEGIN ARRIVING AT SALONICA
LONDON, April 19. A dispatch rom Salonlca dated yesterday tells of th'
arrival there ot the first contingent of Serbian troops. The dispatch describes
the soldiers as being, strong, well-built men in tho, primo of life', and completely
recovered from the privations of their retreat through Serbia.' Their equipment,
is new ' throughout and many wear uniforms of tho same blue color aa th
French.
WILLIAM PENN'S PORTRAIT FOR U. S. S. PENNSYLviNLA,
A copy of. the urmpr portrait of William Penn, owned by the Historical
Society of Pennsylvania, ylll bt presented by the Pennsylvania Society Sons of
the Revolution to the new battleship Pennsylvania, which goes into commission
liTM.few days. A delegation of tho board of governors of tho society will g
to New 'York with the palntlnrr where tho presentation will be made.
GERMANS OFFER THREE
RIO JANEIRO. April 19 Jt is officially announced that Germany has au
thorized shipping companies to lease to
of the1 war only three steamships tied up -
Brazil' pbtain from the Entente Allies a
captured nor attacked.
GREAT EXPLOSION IN GERMAN TORPEDO PLANT
LONDON, April'19. A ReutBrdlspntcli
,.. ,t,n Tf Inlaw V.lilllif. ftvtm WIlllEtlmaltn VAn
lu ,,w ,u.v. Mvitvun ,1 ...w....m.,m.
Friday- last In tho new torpedo works
and others wounded. The works were
Emperor William on February 25."
, BRITISH SEIZE MAIL FROM DANISH STEAMSHIP
BERLIN, April 19. A d&pntch from Copenhagen, reports, that the Brltit
removed all the flrst-elass ma and parcel post romtle Danish steamship Botnl
while the vessel was bound from Copenhagen for another Dttnlsh port
WQMANHIT BY AUTO DIES OF INJURIES
Injuries received when she vms struck by an automobile, while cro.Blng Bre4
street above Somerset caused the death, today In the Samaritan Hospital
Mrs. Anna Vllhams, 79 years old, of S85S Nprttv Park a.Ynu- Stephen SoJ
of rtn'and Linden streets. South Bethlehem, owner and. driver of the car, fef
arrested by District Detective Ojndorff and Policeman Ioerr, of the Park m4
Lehigh avenues police station He will be Arraigned at Central Station, U4y,
i . 1 ;
CONNELLY TO COMPLETE TRANSIT 0PINJQN TODAY
City Solicitor Connelly expects ta hove completed by toih his triuwrtt
opinion covering the terms upon which: work under City Xatt oaji fe tsmubM.
Mr. 'Connelly has been asfced by Director Tvrmlas whether H wW tut fettr 1m tfc
ijeystew Statei 3castrucon Cosapany to ruw wrk ur ttt "luce eewu "
Itsm f th$ prent contract or under an eaftrtlr aw smttt pimmim
r4ttlWlinr Of the City Hal' foundation, fe Connelly wtUw 4cte fi-m tl
KHIK9 tn money ta fy Mr, ibo dUtiai swrts i to to wstea,
i
s. h '
concluded within a, short tlm& betweW
' 3
he" warring countries has glV;cn tIsq to; no f
the menacing; sleepless enemy,"
v
and Senate had .beet) unable to a5r.ee. on
House to reaffirm Its original poaitio
law. Instead, of agreeing to the Senat
tho free list only -until May 3, 1926, &,
been called for tonight tq, discuss th,
STEAMSHIPS TO BRAZIL
Brail! for coast service and for- the lengfl
at Brazilian ports, under condition t
guarantee that these ships will pot!
from Copenhagen eaysf "A dlsjfai
unvtf tllflA ,vo a a ....rf A.-t1sa, nr.
.... .j m ... u n4 a. ,ini -t,,.iKi,m. T-.t
there, a' number of persons being kllleLft,
recently finished and were inspected bvl,j
."" VJ
;vi
11
a
