EXTRA! i()c faming ffttf. EXTRA!
WASHINGTON, D. C., WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 1916. ' ONE CENT.
GERMANY Ml
ORRELAT
PERSONALLY TELLS !
rnvfdrcc at i a tfct
V/UilUlVLJiJ Ui LA ILuJ
NOTE SENT TO BERLIN
Message Demands That Teutons Modify
Their Present Method c*
Submarine Warfare.
President Wilson today personally addressed
Congress on the subject of the sub-1
marine issue with Germany. He went to
the Capitol at 1 o'clock in pursuance of a
plan arranged yesterday afternoon and:
met the House and Senate in joint session
in the hall of the House of Representatives, j
The President outlined the discussion
with Germany over the sinking of merchantmen
by German submarines, cover-1
ing the whole range of these sea tragedies
from the sinking of the Lusitania to the
latest instances, climaxing in the destruction
of the Sussex, though without going
into details.
The President disclosed the nature of
the latest note to Germany, sent to Berlin
last night, which conveyed a distinct
warning that unless attacks without warning,
in violation of international law, on
merchantmen carrying Americans are
stopped, diplomatic relations will be
severed. The United States demands that
Germany modify her method of submarine
warfare. This note, though practically an
ultimatum, does not contain a time limit.
In it the United States has insisted that
Germany reply immediately to its demands.
The text of the President's address to
Congress is as follows:
Gentlemen o; the Congress:
A situation has arisen in the foreign relation- of the country of;
which it is my plain duty to inform you .cry frankly .
It will be recalled that in February. 1915. the imperial German;
government announced its intention to treat the waters surrounding!
!reat Britain and Ireland as embraced within the -eat of war and to!
destroy all merchant ship- owned by its enemies that might lie found j
within any part of that portion of the high seas, and that it warned j
ail vessels, of neutral as well a- of belligerent ownership, to keep!
out of the waters it had thus proscribed or el-c enter them at their 1
I
pern.
The government of the United State- earnestly protested. Itj
took the position that such a policy could not be pursued without the;
practical certainty of gro>- and palpable violations of the law of 1
nations, particularly if submarine craft were to be employed a> its!
instruments, inasmuch as the rules prescribed by that law. rules j
founded upon principles of humanity and established for the prole
ctron of the live^ of non-combatants at sea. could not in the nature!
of the case be observed by such \cssels.
It ba-cd it-- protest oil the ground that persons of neutral nation-'
and vessels oi neutral ownership would he exposed to extreme
. i l hitolerablc ri-k-, and thai no right to close am part of the high :
st;;s against their use or t<> expose them to such risks could lawfully
. < asserted bv am belligerent government. The law of nations in i
these matters, upon which the government of the United States based [
if- protest, is not of recent origin or founded upon merely arhitrarv '
principles set tip ,by convention. It is based, on the contrary', upon :
manifest and imperativ e principles of humanity and has long been j
established with the approval and bv the express assent of all civilized
nations
Notwithstanding the earnest protest ot our government, the itn-i
perial German government at once proceeded to carry out the policy!
\
Mi 1 MMBaBBB
fifei'!"*,!%' it , ' ' .^jA^V^1^.? tt ^( "!?"' - <- V|f:. f l> -"
>% - *& > - ?
T^TifrilT^T^i^f Jnin^winrninffiTW Jfc <&** - *^>!ilP
I:?K' liXs' * : .
I
PRESIDE
:! had announced. It expressed tlie hope that the dangers involve!
ai am rate the danger to neutral vessels, would he reduced to
minimum bv the instruetions which it had issued to its submarir.
commanders, and assured the government of the I nited States tha
it would take every possible precaution both to respect the right - >
neutrals and to safeguard the lives o| non-eoinbatants.
\\ hat has actually happened in the year which has since elapse
has shown that those hopes were not justified, those assurances in
susceptible of being fulfilled. In pursuance of the policy of stibmarin
warfare against the commerce of its adversaries, thus announced an
entered upon by the imperial (icrman government in despite of til
solemn protest of this government, the commanders of (derma
undersea vessels have attacked merchant ships with greater an
greater activity, not only upon the high seas surrounding (irca
Britain and Ireland, hut wherever they could encounter them, in
way that has brown more and more ruthless, more and more indb
criminate as the months have gone by. less and less observant of r?
straints of any kind; and have delivered their attacks without coir
punction against vessels of every nationality and bound upon ever
sort of errand. \ essels of neutral ownership, even vessels of neutrc
ownership bound from neutral port to neutral port, have been d<
stroyed along with vessels of belligerent ownership in constantl
increasing numbers. Sometimes the merchantman attacked has bee
warned anil summoned to surrender before fired on or torpedoed
sometimes passengers or crews have been vouchsafed the poor s<
eurity of being allowed to rake to the ship s boats before she was sen
to the bottom. But again and again no warning has been given, n
escape even to the ship's boats allowed to those 011 boari
What thi> government foresaw must happen has happened. I'r.ag
cdv has followed tragedv on the seas in such fashion, with sue
attendant circumstances. as to make 11 sjrns-.lv evident thai vvarlar
of such ;i sort, if warfare it be. cannot he carried nil withotlt the 1110.palpable
violation of the dictates alike of right ttnd of humanin
Whatever the disposition and intention of the imperial German gov
crntnent. it has manifestly proved impossible tor it to keep site
method of attack upon the commerce ol its enemies within th
hounds set by either the reason or the heart of mankind.
In February of the present year the imperial German govern
titent informed this government and the other neutral government
of the world that it had reason to believe that the government c
?
hn'says thi
A c
- , .! . ' . ' i
,
Z&X .?* x:'i '? ' , *
- . > : '' : ; Hill
- : W'r%M illT
? t !oh<
@ C/MOERWOOPdtfrtDCKWOcilK
:nt wilson xvil
I tor
. |~ ~~ ._ -, ? I the
i. j < irc.it Britain had armed all merchant vessels of British ownership | cat
a j and had given them secret orders to attack any submarine of the I s\v
c leucine tliev might encounter upon the seas, and that the imperial I it t
t | German government felt justified in the circumstances in treating! dm
if! all armed merchantmen! of belligerent ownership as auxiliary ves' j am
! sels of war. which it would have the right to destroy without warn- ! no1
d j ing.
i-j The l;iw of nations has long recognized the right of merchant- wit
e men to carry arms for protection and to use them to repel attack, in
d though to use them, in such circumstances, at their own risk: but c'n
e the imperial German government claimed the right to set the^-s_?- j ten
n ; derstandings aside in circumstances which it reemed extraordinary, of
d liven the terms in which it announced its purpose thus still further j =
it to relax the restraints it had previously professed its willingness and | |%i
a j desire to put upon the operations of its submarines carried the plain'III
t-j implication that at least vessels which were not armed would still |J(
! he exempt from destruction without warning and that personal
i-1 safety would be accorded their passengers and crews; but even that [1
y, limitation, if it was ever practicable to observe it, has in fact con- ||
tl I stituted no check at all upon the destruction of ships of every sort. "
:-j Again and again the imperial German government has given
v ! tlii< <rn\-nr nntpnf ^ + eolomu occiirniirpc timt u t noecunn-flr
J j j5wv.1t11n.111 UD .1U1VJUI1 J^aoov.n^v.1 dim j./.? 1
n would not be thus deal with, and yet it has again and again per- j ??'
omitted its undersea commanders to disregard those assurances witiij >
-\ entire impunitv. (ireat liners like the Lusitania and the Arabic!
it ! and mere ferryboats like the Sussex have been attacked without a 1
o : moment s warning, sometimes before they had even become aware
1.; that they were in the presence of an armed vessel of the enemy. |
and the lives of non-combatants, pasengers and crew, have been I h
h 1 -acrificed wholesale, in a manner which the government of tiie l!";_
e! L'nited States cannot but regard as wanton.and without the slightest
t ! color or justification. Xo limit of any kind has. in fact, been set to toljH
I the indiscriminate pursuit and destruction of merchantmen of all pror
- ainds and nationalities within the waters, constantly extending in tiom
h | area, where these operations have been carried on: and the roll of
e ; Americans who have lost their lives ou ships ths attacked and dc- ,UT]
| stroyed has grown month bv month until the ominous toll has piac
1- mounted into the hundreds. J,
s One of the latest and most shocking instances of this method of
>f warfare was that of the destruction of the French cross-channel Ban
A
EU. S.
: DDcoinriiT
. I IlLOIULIl I
:ITES WHOLE RANGE
OF TRAGEDIES SINCE
LOSS OF LUS1TAN1A
ote, Though Practical Ultimatum,
Sets No Time Limit?Immediate
Reply Is Asked For.
amer Sussex, it must stand forth, a the sinking ot the steamer
sitania did. as so singularly tragical and unjustifiable as to contute
a truly terrible example of the inhumanity of submarine
rfare as the commanders of German vessels have for the ua-t
i_. i. i_. _ t r d.: . * * . 1..1 ....
ei\ emoiuii oecn concluding u. 11 mis iii-uukc m?kmi .ir'uv. -"'nt
Sanation, some disavowal by the < lerraati government, some v\
ice of criminal mistake or wilful disobedience on the part ot the
nmander of the vessel that tired the torpedo might he sought or
.ertained ; but upliappily it does not stand alone. Recent events
ke the conclusion inevitable that it is only one instance. >tii
>ugh it be one of the most extreme and distressing instances. <u
spirit and method of warfare which the imperial t ierntan govinient
has mistakenly adopted, and which from the lirst exposed
it government to the reproach of thrusting al neutral rights a-idc
pursuit of its immediate objects.
The government of the United States has been very patient. At
:rv stage of this distressing experience of tragedy aftr tragdv in
ich its own citiznse were involved it has sought to be restrained
111 any extreme course of action or of protest by a thoughtful exoneration
of the extraordinary circumstances of this unprecedented
r. and actuated in all that it said or did by the sentiments of gene
friendship which the people of the United States have always
ertained and continue to entertain toward the Herman natoti. .
lias, of course, accepted the successve explanations and assurances
the imperial German government as given in entire sincerity and
j<l faith, and has hoped, even against hope, that it would prove to
possible for the German government so to order and control the
s of its naval commanders as to square its policy with the princis
of humanity as embodied in the low of nations. It has been
ling to wait until the significance of the facts became absolutely
nistakalde and susceptible of but one interpretation.
That point has now unhappily been reached. The tacts are sus>tible
of but one interpretation. The imperial German govern
lit lias been unable to put any limits or restraints upon its wartare
linst either freight or passenger ships. It has therefore become
ntully evident that the position., which this governtent took at
very outset is inevitable, namely, that he use of submarines for
destruction of an enemy's commerce is of necessity, because of
very outset is inevitable, namely, that the use of submarines for
ack which their employment of course involves, incompatible with
principles of humanity, the long-established and incontrovertible
!it> of neutrals, and the sacred immunities of non-combatants.
I have deemed it my duty, therefore, to sav to the imperial (ier11
government that if it is still its purpose to prosecute relentless
1 indiscriminate warfare against vessels of commerce by the use
submarines, notwithstanding the now demonstrated impossibility
;onducting that warfare in accordance with what the government J
the United States must consider the sacred and indisputable rules 1
international law and the universallv recognized dictates of liu- 1
nity. the government of the United State- is at last forced to the I
iclusion that there is but one course it can pursue, and that unless ^
imperial German government should now immediately declare
1 effect an abandonment of its present methods of warfare against
;scnger and freight carrying vessels this government can have no
lice but to sever diplomatic relations with the government of the
rinan empire altogether.
This decision I have arrived at with the keener regret : the possiitv
of the action contemplated 1 am sure all thoughtful Americans
1 look forward to with unaffected reluctance. lint we cannot
get that we arc in some sort and lis the force of circumstances
responsible spokesmen of tlie rights of humanity, and that wo
mot remain ilent while those right scent in process <?f hcing
ept utterly away in the maelstrom of this terrible war. We owe
.<i a due rcgarad for our own rights as a nation, to our sense of
;v a a representative of the rights of neutrals the world over.
1 to a just conception of the rights of mankind to take this stand
iV Willi UK uuiiuM mjiciiiihia anu
I have taken it. and taken it in the confidence that it will meet
:h vour approval and support. All sober-minded men must unite
hoping that the imperial German government, which has in other
cunistances stood a the champion of all that we arc now coniding
for in the interest of humanity, may recognize the justice
our demands and meet them in the spirit in which they are made.
ii i tto rnnM n/inn { companies Ij, H ami I to be prepared to
II I M.UMIIYI IVIlin im^=,er th,
#LLL I V I llwlll IIIwlr | sale of intoxicants and closed all
* a a a in saloons and ordered on duty the dcpuRING
MART A AWi1"~
lllllU 'If l^ll m I IllL LTlll i law recently passed authorizing .t
I sheriff to take such action in an emer
I trencv without first I'linO-rrino
Grift, in Control. Csils Out, After Stonlnsr the shops the strikers and
their sympathizers jostlei! train comniut/lilitia
During Strike at
So one was injured during this attach
Hastings-on-Hudson. i e*p?K2??hA ,Y,e'S'LIf
1 upon because the company, wh??*h manufactured
munitions of war. had ?ieit..;nde?I
. .. . 'Protection for its two-niiilion-doM h- ?.imt
ASTIN'G.S-ON-HUDSON, N. ^ April . and there are only si\ village ofTVeis
-Martial law was declared in effect j ,
,in the limits of HastinKs tillage, and | Security League Plans Meetings
e troops were called upon for duty j . ? "8 '
y, after rioting: had assumed serious ' *_ ^ ' -A|??i 1 19. Kighty-flve
?ortions among: strikers of the Na-I aW* C,S an,, ',us'"fcss men ha\e volurial
Conduit and Cable Company. A|lSm V *mo e<1 with the speakers buaHacked
the company's plant \\ithireMU ? the Na,'ona' Securit\ Reague
?ts arid stones to conduct noonday and evening meetme
trustees of the villa** voted to | in ,h intere,,t of Preparedness, it
e the situation in the hands of Sheriff!18 announced here. The speakers will
ich Wcisendanger. who at once sum- j visit manufacturing plants and other
ed the national guardsmen at White institutions emploxing large number?
tis. Mount Vernon and Flushing. AlaJ. of persons, as well as the public sei\>h
M. Glover, commanding the 1st I ice corporations and various poliil'-al
alion of the 10th Regiment, ordered organizations.
