FULL TEXT OF PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE TO CONGRESS
HI EDITION
I "Clmililltnn ItnuU-H (l-it In Ml." I
MClrnntoilon flnokn Opm to All,"
V It I C K 0 M K CRMT
pt n i , iron, Sf fh ri.iiii(
I I IS W MMl
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, A P R If, I 0, 1 1) 115
18 I' A (I K fJ
PRICK 0 If II CENT
MMAl
III COITION
WIMAL
ti
lt
V
GERMANY MUST
OR
Chief of Staff Rushed" to Join
F-'unstnii ami Get Facts for
Baker.
TROOPS
Gen. Obregon Insists Villa
Dead, but Story Is Dis
credited Elsewhere.
WASHINGTON. April 19. Major
Orn. Hugh L. Scott, Chief ot Stiff nf
Ihe Army, will go to San Antonio,
Tex., to-iiluht by order of Secretary
Hakcr to spend several tl.tyf canvass
ing thn Mexlcnn situation with den.
Puniton.
It Is believed On Scott's Jourmsy
rrlscs from d.s .. line reports for
w tried by (ton Punstun n.s to the slt-
H. iMon of On. Pershing's won around
Pirral.
Hr teury linker Issued this state
mnt: "(!cn. .Scott leaves for San
Antonio this eeuing ut '5.15 at my
request. 1 1 n 111 spend several days
twin (ion. I-'unstnn anil return. Thl.s
trip la mado solely for thn purpose
of getting ns nccurato Information n
p pnsiihl'i f'.r the use of tlm Do
p.irtment. '.'.en. runtnn remains In
mil ehanm of thn affairs of Ills 1'--partmrnt,
Including tin expedition
uto Mexico. 1 1 o has tho full eonsl-d-ncc
f Cm licparttnent ami his dls
p.i'ittoiis hiivo tho Department'"
ut it approval."
Ncas despatches fom Mexico City
m- tho Mexican Ambassador ltero
has been instructed to make another
u'inand for tlm withdrawal of Amur
nan troop.
A movement of Carranr-.i troops
which lm been stationed near Chl-
I. nahua to Parral was icported to
,hu lo tho Htnto Department. This
niformatlim wni foiarded to lien.
I'untiton It canto from Consul
l.l trhM.
(.p n. obregon. C.irranAa's Mmtstei
. f W.n. 'HHistH Villa I 1"!'I- Villa
.,h urn -i d and buried by uu aKed
man and wmiim I" whom Ubioirull
,ah i very enlifldenei'." an official
neHM.me to tin' Mi'xlcan Kmbasv
. i re ud to. day.
On. Obrritioi expressed eonfi
ilencc r wis said, that .Meleo',i
tidiiliics, internal ami international,
,ire over.
...11. fnt fl l.nt"rtll M
in rouiuci .,. v.. .. . -
(.t.itcmcut
, oe or. . i,
- , Aui.i nina
from Chlhu.illllll uy tei H'tS of Vil
I.i'h death ami the illslntertitent of
Iiim liody are entirely unconfirmed In
official envies there. Hen. (iutorrlez,
commander of the Chihuahua nar
tlsoii, declares he has no Information
of Villa's whereabout, dead or nliV' .
Carranza military iiuthoiltbM m
Southern Chlhualiua havo warned
lien, rcrshim,' that .my attempt to
proceed furthet south will lead to
fcerious tioiible, acconlllli; to army
men here.
Mijnr Hun. I'unMi'ii, furwardltis
I'rrstiltiK's leport, is utidei stood to
havo described as tliieiitenlni; the
iittltude of the Cnrraru.i forces and
to have aslvcd furtlier iiiHtructlons
In view of tlio itifortintlon already
in his possession. ien. Funston has
ordered I'.SUO additional troojif to Co
lumbUB N. M.i to suaid ttm Ainerica-i
i.ncs of communication and to pus',
(Continued on Fourth I'ase.)
Tha h
aiiN. SCOTT SENT TO BORDER
AS MORE CARRANZA TROOPS ;
MOVE TO PAUL DISTRICT
FORCE BREAK. SAYS
!2,500SI1PEDED
A 4fe A A, A A. an a.
. BY $zUU,U00 HRt
K: IN SIXTH AVENUE
i
Shoppers Hee While Occu
pants of 13uildins; at 1 Sth
1 Street Fight Way Out.
( Aboil I.eiiO s!iopieri and loo r u i
'plojri'x In store and faetorlf-i In the
flvp.Mor.v bulldlne at the southwest '
U-orner of Sixth Avenue and KlKh'
jefnth Street wer' stnmpoded tn-da
by a Mr which broke out at 1 3o
o'eloek Owlnir to tlm fact that tlifi
flames at tho start shot up a larco
llfrht shaft and "ern thus delayed
from spreading no mm wa' Injured in
thn rush from the burning structure, j
The bulldltiK extends from No. 273 to
Sixth Avenue. The two iower
floors of No. :73 and CS1 were (irrupbd
by Clrant's :."-eent department stor
II. A. StelnberR's millinery cit.ihl.sl.
mi'iit occupied the twe lower floors on
tho rot nor. The uppr Honrs weto oc
cup oil by small factorlf.i.
Kmploecs lleelitK from the factories
'I'oatui' jaiiiiiind oil the sta!nvnH be.
twicii tho (.Touitil and f.ecoud floors,
p.irtii iil.irly In a stairway lending i
Sixth Avenue
I'lreiuen and police,
men pliitiKcil hondlnns; Into the.,n Jams P.allroad Company and allied lines,
and pulled the people apart by main ,.0mmltted suicide this mornlnc In tho
force. .
,,,, ,, , Motel .Manhattan by snooting himself
My direction of the pollco all tho
buildings adjacent to the tiro rlv , through the head, lln lived In Haiti,
vacated. C.reenhut's big slot e, across, more with bin wife and grown non
the street, was Invaded by a gte.it I and daughter, though the city dlree.
towd seeking vantage points at win-; lory gives his address as No. 7S:t l-'lfth
dows, but the store management ! Awmiuc. New York. That number Is
ordeted tho shades drawn and luisi. the Hotel .ethcrland, whom ho had
ness was carried on by electric light a toom from Sept. t:t last until Apr'l
In tho middle of tho day j 3. thli year
T II. Townlej, genera, cashier of Mr. Van den Iterg eiiine to this city
the (Irani store, i,,),) presence, of Siindu etnng lth .l S. I'Mitt, of
muni enough to sweep the contents 1 Houston. 'Pi mi-, Prehidi nt of the tlulf
of ivcnt -tlnee icglsieis Into a can- Stutes Hallway 'oin;u.ii.v. who had
vas bag bef ire leaving tlm building, called for linn at hi., homo in Haiti.
He had Jll.oiin in t lie bag and nuiruwl.v mme They weiu to iitten,! nt il P. M.
escaped arrest ,(f n tUizen times to-da a meeting if tho board of
before he was allowed by vigilant de. illreeuis of the Half SlateM llallwnj
teclivea lo deposit u hi a safo place, Companv. of winch Mr. Van don ISerg
Chief Kenlou and I'lro Marshal Hro.iwas ihairman.
, . , , . ,
...
. l,1Iir
was tirobably
laiisod by defectho insulation. The uor of tho Manhattan. Mr. Van den
lire had spread lo all floors and wiiSJicrg had been In puor health for
going through the ro..f when Hat. 1 weeks, according to Mr. Pyntt. Tw Ice
tallon Chief Hoss arrived and turned ' recently ho had fallen in tho smut.
In tluen alarms. i stricken with vcrtl ; but Mr. Pyatt
lliiiiinn Companies H. ,1 and 72 ,d no apprenhi nslon when he went
were the ilrst to arrlvo. The three .jowit to breakfast at S.3Q this mui-i-
crov, numberliiK about twenty men,
climbed up tho tire. e-eapos and were
.citing into tho building when a ter-
Hie back draught ulmost bb'W them
out of the building and tlie had to
light t.ie Hie from the stnet. I'.i,.
mrn w , re sli,;ver. ;l With Kli- and
:tCluy ,r..",.,., w ,
all live Hoots Is estim.i'cd lit K'"0.ollii
ei... c ! i
H.- oi..t mi
tied up fin forty in -lutes. M mx
tho passingets, ilthnimh ail wen
told to rei out, i. in. unci) in t;.c i ii
in w ,tne-s the fne.
siinitr iist:ii ( hi !i,
l.'.ifrnt'irf. t i. , nl!ir in' ..ii.r
fi I' linn hi 1 n W'ofl.t Tfi. ili.i. t i , Ar-.l-I'lllltf
World i llulldir Mi l"r s r
Vr Ot Itltftof, llMlomo 40CO.--A4H,
President Wilson
rstDiOHNT wilson
I
KILLS HIMSELF IN 1
II
Vaak '.m den Her,sr Found'
Dead Few Iloui Before !
Business Weeiinn. I
Vza.il Van deti !! m. t t. year
old, President nf tin; Arkansas Harbor
The two men took one room, with
. two beds and a bath on thn third
ivs 4m,., van den lierg was p.ntlv i
,,.,.Mge, an,j s.il.l lie , i!d I down
directly
j),., jiyalt w.iiied awliilo in lie
j0,UVl then break 'a ted alone. Then
h ,,,,, , ,,lKU .-..ruuuh t)u other
looms looUlllu fn hf couipninon, and
n..,.,iy n. .. boy . third,
floor. The ho;, en'eicd the loom bj
, .i - .... i i.
1 U HI t'.t'PI-.l J'W l,, lli;'l .HI t.lll
den ilerg dead on the floor. He had
slln' h.mnelf ill tile light temple with
.1 he'iv b rman limRaine pistol.
Mt I .1 it leii mned to Mr Van den
Ilerg's olllie at No 'A1. N assau St rent.
.Hid Mmy Alliiu I. Keaitif). iir. ,ru
tary, went to tlio hotel,
HEAD OF RAILROAD
HOTEL MANHATTAN
as He Appeared
iwionc tosmtm
11
PLAN III SECRET 10
.Militia Head and I'olice i.'.im
niissioner Have croniereuce
With Cjovernor.
iSprtl! Vi Til" Ktflllint Wor I .
AI.HANV. April iy.--s.cn- mil:
tary preparations for an 1 m-rgi ncy
have been mado by State .uiiliorltb s
looking to a serious crisis n.th'n n
few days, tlio preclee natuu .,f wm, 1
they will not disclose.
Major Cen. O'ltyan, nmn n lit-
the State Xutlnnnl Otiard. and Pol, it
Comnil.ihloncr Arthur Woods ,f Ni v
Vork were 111 confeien. e with (lut
Whitman lato Ins' n.g'.t 1
rangennnts lo meet .in c in c,
p:u ticiil.ii ly in New Yoik i'i j
'I'hey submitted plans f.n a
tlon of Nutlonal linanl reg mint .ml
c-o-opcratlvn work bv the New 01 U
police fori-' Which the leiWIIr is
understood to have nppi'ini-d.
Ill event of a brenlc -l. i,r:n:in
It Is intimated that m, minions in
Now ork City am cons bud su.ri
as to warrant eme e,. ri.y p" i,.i,t.
Hons.
RUMOR GERMANY
WILL MEET DEMANDS
WASIHNiiTON. .
Mr., id
in- 'ili
n fill
, Itie, I
intlni.itinn w is g .
Oenn.ui l)i -..il . I
lieitn. s nil! In, !
the ib icnuls in I
note outlined t
sun's
II Ills
w-i.tji' to Ci.i;m-
r ' a r r v tmai.i
DIVORCE FOR HARRY THAW.
" J I '."
IHTTtilll'ln III II. V,.,,, I II...
K ThMW h to'-Ua . 1.11M..I n dlM.i...
f,ln Jvrln Nesbll Ttniw
The dectee w.n gm n b Judge J..
slnh I'olirn on nieoinne ndutlnn of At.
1 tonn y H Thonmi.. 111 nt-r Tb suit
w 4 in n fv iin u.im ago on gtound
Siiinrl,ly ' n"
0 RYAN AND WOODS
GUARD NEW YORK
END
PfifTH1 1 M
WILSON SAYS TO CONGRESS
"In Spite of the
This Government'Said the Presi
dent,"the Commanders of German
UnderseaVessels Have Attacked
Merchant Ships"
i "Uniess the Imperial German Government should now immedi
: ately declare and effect an abandonment of its present methods of
: warfare against passenger and freight-carrying vessels this Govern
i ment can have no choice but to sever diplomatic relations."
WMll.(ilO., Apiil I". I'fCKttMil U'ilMiii, in .111 .ul.iress Ivlorc
.t Juinl Scvioii ol QiuijrL'ss iiii;, atieriioon, sulw'iiinls Jccl;irfil Hit limit
1 1 in.lvar.iiivV h;ul Iwn riMvlk'il in our controversy with ( ijrniiiiiy over
uv L'-b'ial i-biii.. .111.I tliut tlu link' I1.1J come lor ilk ftfveran.v of triudly
rel.iti'nis tinie-o tin: Impc'ri.il 1 luveriinifiit sltrml J iunv iniiiidiaiely
.iImiuIoii its jircM'iil in-lliods of warfare;.
I'lie .ulJivsi w.is ileliveu'il heffire a crowkl.l house? ami was liearJ
I7 repreit'iitaliwa oi all t he l:iilcnle Allie.-.
.lust tvfon I o".ltvk the Senate ilotil'le liUl down the lung ii.iUwa
iriiii their dumber to tlie House. In the le.ul were Ci.illini;er, U'( lornun
.111J kern,
When the I'resi.lent .ippe.ired applause ami dieeriiic; swept oer the
Itlour of the House anJ the crow.levl
1'iesident turne.l, howej to the Speaker, ami a I11H1 lell over the atulienee.
s the I'reMJent Ivgan the review ol the (ienii.ui submarine cam
paign there wa in Jenioibtraiinn to puiictu.iie his recital of the sacrilice
d American lives. No .t mint was he.iul ,ib e the I're.-klenfs voice as
he 'poke the n.i.ne 1 ti-it.uu.i.
When he pp'nounce.l t -.e .d the iiliimaiuni declaring that
REPUBLICAN LEADERS
ASSAIL PRESIDENT
Representative Mann Declares Wilson's
Speech Was for Political Purposes
Senator Sherman Takes Same View.
ASIIIMl'ii.N, April lit.- -ItepublicMii opposition to the and taken by
I'tosltlent Wilmiii in nor rebillims with Hcrrnnnv wn-t mileklv shown
"I think i Ins (iovernmem sliouh.
.Mann. '"I'lie I'reslilenl neier has been
Iish side all the time. What lie said about Cerniaiiy, while It Is grossly
u,aggerated, Is a Just ( omptiiltit. Hut hn could say Just tlm same about
Kngltiud and our shipping, HtibstitutliiK 'M-otinu s!ili' for 'ttlnkim; hIi I pa.' Ii ;
h a mistake to break ulT diplomatic relations with Oerinauy. That Is ;
imply to iiilt In a pet ,
"It is perfectly evident that the President, sis u enuipalKn political ,
dodge, is trjitm to work up lo u point where lm can get Into a war with1
i : rni.it. during a Pre. ideal Inl campaign '
" 1'ln PiesuHni's pnsltliin i;. n eompl, t- reiuill.oio!i of his note of Juu
u.i ry is, sent tliroitch Secretary Limning, rcKiirtllnj; tlie arming of tnerrliatit
iis.',ii n tul siiiiiiiuriii" w irfure." said lieiin se.itatlvi- Crmjier, ranklm:
iiepitbl.can member nf the I'nri !u Aifairn Coinmlliee. "Tlie tthnld slum-1
tn.;i resolves Itself into u ipieslli u i f wlietlier the I'liiteil Mtite will set up
I (ode of regulations v lw Ii t a.,i
is the siibtnurltie."
"The sevtrame of ditdoiiuitle n lations rests Hi the ;.mcii'Ivp lie
jinrlmitit of tlio Hoverninent, ' said Senator Klmrinaii, Itepiibtlenn. of UU
j nos, who ts a enndldate for President '1' this brings us to (ho brink ot
war. U Ii for Cotigri to sictaln
i siiouiu 'oto uRiiinsi any iieciarniion
those conulned In the ITcjldeat'
, 5 mcesagt.'
U-BOAT WAR
lYff rfkrrC FIFAIriTM
Solemn Protest of!
a.illeiies. When it JtilbiJeJ. the
bo neutral." , Hepubllcau ..-ailo,-
neutral. I In has been on the l-Inu-
hino tii nbnte by whop Its sole defense
.otiuccd It .sprissod Mm hopi
nr refuse to sustain tlie President 1
oi war uaseo on any suon reasons 3
Wl
Tragedy Has Followed Tragedy in
Such Fashion
This Sort of
the Dictates
Humanity.
unless f lernian houKI inuiieiliatelv declare and ellect an abamlonment of
indiscriminate Mibin.tihie warfare this (iovcrnnieiit would have no choice
but to sever diplomatic relations there was still iu demonstration, only a
lense silence and a reflection of the gravity of his words.
When he concluded with expression of hope that Germany would so
act to avert a regrettable break with
cheers.
It was 1.14 oYUk when the 1'iesident concluded. He had spoken
liiM lilteen minutes. Applause started irom the Democratic side and th.'
Republicans then joined. Democrats began ihiiig to their feet and soon
the entire assemblage was standing. The applause lasted peih.ips a mn
tite and then, as the I 'resident passed out of the chamber, died au.
Speaker ("!aik declared the joint session at an end and the Senators
bled out. Ihe ".alleiie.s quickls were deserted. Speaker Clark referred
Ihe address to the I oreign Altairs Committee and the House resumed its
tegular business.
TEXT OF Till: I'liESWKSrS SPEECH.
When the joint session had been organised, President Wilson was
introduced. I'lie lull text of his speech is as follows:
'(ientiemen ot the Congress A situation has arisen in the foreign
relations of the country of which it is my plain duty to inform ou very
fr.inkh.
-It will be recalled that in I-'ehruary, 1915, the Imperial German Gov
eminent announced its intention to treat the waters surrounding Great
Hritaiu and Ireland as embraced within the seat of war, and to destroy all
mcrJimt --hips owned by its enemies that might be found within any part
it th-it f irtii'ii oi the high se.i and that it warned all vessel , ot neutral
is well a- nt belligeieiit nwiieiship. t. keep out of the waters it had thus
'.'inscribed, "r else cntei them at their peril.
"I lie ( lovernuienl id the United Stales eaincsih protested, it look
the p'Mii"" that such ,i p ihcy could not be pursued with-ml the practical
ceiliinl;, ol gross and palpable violation- ot the law of nations, particu
lar!;, ii submarine aalt wee to be employed as its instruments, inasmuch
as the rules piescribed In that law, rules touuded upon principles of
lu",1'"li,-v taWWu-J for the protection of the lives of nou-combatailK
it sea, could lint in ihe nature nf the
"II lia-i-il its protesl on lu gi'timid Hint iet'soiis of neutral mi
liniialil) anil M'ss(, m' ueutcil nwncrslilp would he exposed o
evlri'ine mill Inlulerahlc risl,, ntnl Unit no riulil In close any part ol
the high seas niritlnst their use or to expose llieui to such risks
toiilil Iiiim'iiIIj be asserted hj mil IndllgiTcut (incrnnieiit. Tlie
Ill's of tinliotis In Hiese iimltei's, upon wlili h Hie (oiicriiiiicnt of tlie
I nlleil Mates based Its protesl, N nut of recent oilgiu or founded
upon men l niliiliarj prluclples set up h ( nin ciillnn. It Is based,
on Ihe i initial i. o pi' ii iiiiinli'i t and luipei.ithi' principles of Inn
iiiiinlli mid has lorn; heeti est.ibllslicil with (lie iipjiroutl unit b) the
oxpio.s assent nt' nil cltllleil nations,
.v.-w It 'istatnli.ii; i he i arn- ' piote-t of mi" (i.ncrmnetit, tlm ImperUI
j ijei man i;.ienimen' at mn e pr
tlio duiigi rs to in-nira! cssis, would be reduced to a minimum by tho In
structions which ,t had Issued to submnrino cnmm.itidors. and assured the
(Internment of the t'nitetl .States that It would take every posslhlo precau
tion both to ronpect the rights of neutrals and to enfeguard tho lives of
nou-pombntanti
What has actually happened In thn year which has lnce elapsed hai
as to Show That
Warfare Violates
of Justice and
America the asembly broke into
case be 'Nerved In such vessels.
ideil to cany out ihe pulley It had an
ih.it tlie dangers Involved, at any rate
I
4
I
(
