\IGHT HERE
IN RICHMOND
Utr&cticc Homes for Sale or lo Lei.
See T.-D. Want Pages.
fuditnonit ^TimeS-iDi
RIGHT HERE
IN RICHMOND
Every Metropolitan Advantage for
Newcomers?See T.-D. Wan'.s
th YEAR
V01.U3IK CO
\ i'>iHKlt inn
RICHMOND, VA., WEDNESDAY, XPRIL 19, 1916.?FOURTEEN PAGES UNSETTLED PRICE, TWO CENTS.
ILSON WILL TAKE WHOLE SUBMARINE ISSUE
WITH GERMANY TO CONGRESS FOR ACTION
USSIANS TAKE j
TURKISH CITY
OF TREBIZONB:
^ lost Important Stronghold
|)n Black Sea Now Is in
1 Hands of Czar's Forces.
h
OBJECTIVE OF CAMPAIGN
SINCE FALL OF ERZERUM
apture Marks Advance of 100
Miles on Way to Con
stantinople.
ilG ARMY RELIEVED TRAPI'KD
jTiriHM Rushing Heavy Ke-Knforrr
tnent.i to Asslsf in Drive
on Verdun. '
Attack Is Pressed
by Land and Sea
|
^ I) " KSM Nf: tlielr itlurk vlKornus
5 I I? by Innd and nri. thr llu?
Minn* hair raptured Turkey** muni
Important purl on Ihc lllnrk fc#?
R TrrhUoml. I bat tlir Joint ntlnck
? h? the Inml nnd nntnl (ore** w?<
phnrp, tjiilek nml declalve I* Indt
ciilrrt by the fm-t flint nn official
imim in ii nI<?? 11nn linil Jimt announced
? thnt thr Riiftvlnn land forcr* nrrp Ht
I thr \ Diner of llrnnn. upvriit
nillrn rant of Trebl/.ond. vrhrn n nrrr
announcement of tl?r fnll of thr
V toni) win mnilr.
R Tlir port nn<l outlying defense*
!: IiikI Itrrn "Irniiuly fortified ulniT tlir
)? fnll of r.r/rrinn, hid] thr 'liirkinh
'}) uwrrUnn nn? tnkrii Bt tlirlr full rll
* l?lmi>.
tin tlir trout In KrmiiT Inclrincot
wrnthrr lin* Impeded thr nrll\lt\ of
llir lrnn|i? around Vrriliin, In nil
tlir ?c<*tlira of which there Inn r hrcn
only Inlrrmlt trnt lionilinrdnien tn.
Tlir only Infantry nttnrkn in Krnticc
And llrlicltim hn\r tnkrn plmr nlunc
thr Tirltlnh end of tlir llnr, iihrrr, nt
several pOlnt?. thr llrltlnh hn?r rn
trrrd Herman trrnehr* or ulinkrn oft
German attempt* nt nttnek.
? f-'peolal Cnlilr to The Tiines-I.M*patch.]
% T'F/TROGRAH. April IS ?Thr Rus
sian armies of tli? 'Jr.ind T>uk?; Nicho
las have captured tli* Turkish Hlack
^e* port of Tr?bizond. commanding
I point on the prinrlpal trade route to
| I'ersia and Centra! Asia. The city was
I defended by a prarrison of more than
Ir'ift.OOO men and huere field armies. Ofii
l^rlal announcement of it* fall was made
[tMo-nlffht by the general staff.
Ji The communication announcing the
Rapture of Treblzond Mays
i| "Treblzond has fallen, due to the co
-operation of our army and navy
, "The army pursued the Turks with
|osit respite after the battl* nf Friday.
|ov?roornlng: Incredible difficulties; tho
* navy permitted us to effect the most
darlnp: landings and gain the troops'
artillery support.
"Tha operations of our other troops
In Asia Minor also were of assistance."
ADVANCE OF MORR TRA\ lOO ^lll.KS
OV WAY TO COXSTANTIXOPI.R
The capture of Treblzond marks an
advance of more than 100 miles toward
Constantinople, 575 miles away, and
!tha complete breaking- down of the
Turkish defense alonp the Black Sea
coast. The city was taken by heavy
forces, -which advanced down the coast
under protection of the puns of the
Russian fleet.
The Russian advance continues along:
?the entire front. Ofticial communica
tions state that the Turks have been
driven out of many positions west of
(Continued on Second T'-ipp.)
Break With Germany \
Would Mean Recall j
of Troops in Mexico
Military PrudenceWill Re
quireThat Steps BeTa^en
to Prepare for Eventu
alities in Europe.
WASHINGTON. April 13 ?Th? ad
ministration is awaiting further re
ports from American officers In .Moxiro
before deciding whotlifr the expedition
FoekuiK Villa shall be withdrawn or
re-enforced for further operations.
Additional advices from General Funs
ion as to the situation are expected
hourly. Some telegrams came late to
day. One was dated Namiijulpa, show
ins that General Pershing had with
drawn to that place
Indications at th? W?.r l.'epartment
hore out press reports from the front
that tho pursuit of Villa was tem
porarily at a standstill.
President Wilson anil his Cabinet
' discussed the Mexican situation briefly
i to-day, in the licht of a review of its
(military aspects submitted by Gen
eral Funston It was announced later
that the situation was unchanged and
t th? administration's policy unaltered
' One member of the Cabinet admitted,
1 however, that no final decision had
?been reached as to withdrawal o? the
' troops.
1 OFFICIALS AVI I.I* HKVF.tt*
VO VTOIIT) OF HEPOItT
Ofllcinle would reveal no word of tho
report submitted by Genera! F\instoti
'It was apparent, however, that It out
lined a situation which required action
in Washington. Tho llr.e of communi
cation with General Pershing's force
already is drawn too thin, and there
Is no disposition here to contradict
border advices that mote troops must
he sent if the chase is to be prepsed
! further.
| Secretary Tlakcr arranged to take sd
ditlona! advices to the White Houseman
tbey came. He conferred with Secre
tary Lansing during the late after
noon Neither would discuss their ron
feretn e
I' was thought probable though no
official wouM talk about this phase <?(
' the question, that the German situa
tion would have, some bearing upon
the Impending decision. If a break in
diplomatic relations with Germany H
! foreseen by the administration, it vir
tually is certain that the troops will
be recalled from Mexico immediately.
Military prudence would require that
'steps be taken t<? prepare for eventu
alities in F.ur'-pe
Some oflieials expressed belief that
the 1'nlted States must wait and see
what transpired beyond the border be
fore it could determine greatly to In
crease the. American forces there, or.
on the other hand, determine to with
draw at once
KKPOHT OF VII.I.A'S IJKATII
.NOT YF.T C I.EAIICI) I P
1 The report of Villa's death has not
' been cleared up as yet. l>ottht. as to
Its truth steadily increases, however,
I and dispatches to-day from Consul
1.etcher, at Chihuahua, characterised
1 the report as a mere, rumor, without
; any foundation, that he could ascer
j tain.
The. "Washington Rovernm'nt, as
j nearly its the attitude of the Cabinet
, can be learned, Is in no mood to force
I matters in Mexico. Already the main
purpose of the expedition, protection
'of the border, is regarded as accoin
, pllshed.
' In some quarters it war. suggested
(that an agreement for withdrawal
' might be accepted by General Carranza
on the proviso that if Villa again
headed northward and came to a cer
tain distnnce of the bonier, despito
efforts of the de facto government
troops to check him, I'niied States
iContinued on Second Page.)
>
E^uy-Right Hints for
the Thrifty Housewife
r
; As I lie spring season ad
vances and Easter looms large
on tlie horizon, the obligations
stressed to look vonr best are
daily becoming more and more
sharply outlined on the style
screen.
The big stores of Richmond,
and the smaller style shops as
well, have probably eclipsed
all former spring fashion ox
hibitions. in point, of variety,
color effect, quality and versa
tility of design. You may pay
as much as you're inclined, or
as little as you choose. You
need not reach for t.he heights
of extravagance unless your
purse is preened for the flight.
(Former Spring Fashion
Exhibition Eclipsed j
'You may choose with economy!
without restriction in choice
from amongst a gorgeous col-i
lection of charming modes
moderately priced; for there
has probably been no former
season when such splendid
garments were sold as reason
ably as spring 101G.
Read the merchants' adver
tising in The Times-Dispatch
and appreciate the full signifi
cance of this statement. Their
Easter heralding are now hold
ing the center of t*he stage;
and no better, nor more expe
dient rule to follow than to
read this advertising in The
Times-Dispatch, and then vevi
' fy the values in the stores
?VOTR?Tlii' TlniPd-nUpnluh (jimrnnioM n mnrkrtl unvlnR on ovrrj pnrvlinnR
mm do i? Hichinuucl ?(orr> tliat ntlvvrllM* llirir Io>vch( iirlcm tu llirkc iiiijcs.
jSENATE Bill PROVIDES !
SRMV OF MILLION MEN
I. , ?
lii I ?(r *if Grave Developments,'
.Measure I? Pn^ed Without.
Ueconlcd Vote.
sc km: o\f, of kxcitemkxt J
Amendments to Reduce Proposed i
Strengthening of Country's .Mili
tary Force Repeatedly Rejected.
Volunteer Army Provision Wins.
WASinvrjTON, April lH.-An army
I reorganization bill that would produce
, regular army and reserves military
forces In the United States aggrecating j
.1 million men wan passed by the Sen-'
ate to-night without u recorded vote, j
On the e\? of a joint se'-sion of the |
Housi s of Congress to hear a message I
from the President on grave interna
tional Issues, the Senate hastened com- J
nletion of the bill amid scenes of e\-t
citement, repeatedly rejecting a!lj
amendments pending to reduce the pio- ?
posed strengthening; of the army.
In the closing hours of debate the j
Senate made provision for a regular
standing army with a peace strength of
2r.fl.o?o men, as compared with 140.000 j
in the Hay bill which passert the ilotii'e. '
retained after a close fight the plan j
for a Federal volunteer army reserve'
force calculated 10 apgr^cate 'jCl,0ft0j
men and federalize the National Guard i
forces of the States at an estimated |
strength of 2SO,0';0.
St IIOOI. AMI COI.I.KGR COUPS
IS I'llOVIDKD 1\ MEASI.'HI-J '
In addition to this combined regular
and reserve for.-e of TriO.OOO an amend-j
inent was passed to create a school and
??ollegt? youths' reserve corps in time {
of war or threatenen war which would j
recruit n force of trained young men.
schooled by officers of the regular army. !
the estimated strength of which is any-j
where from eno.ooo to 400.000.
"Wo are creating here to-night a
pence army of .1 milium men." declared1
Senator Myers. In supporting an
amendment of Senator Reed to make!
the regular army 200.000. The Senate
had agreed previously by a vote or 4."; I
to 37 to a:i amendment by Senator j
Mrandegee increasing it from the pro
posed strength of JS0.00O to 260.000.
The Reed reduction proposal wax re-j
Jccted 42 to 31, r.fter a brief spetch bv '
Senator Williams in which he referred I
to tho solemnity of the occasion which
would confront Congress to-morrow. j
Thi: apparently grave developments
of the few hours preceding the passage'
of the bill probably also served to save ;
the volunteer army provision. Cham-!
Pions of the National Guard fought it'
bitterly in tho committee of the whole '
and it was retained by a vote of 34 td j
j.... To-night Senator T.ewis again'
moved to strike out the section It
was saved this time by a vote of 40
I to 37.
IMPORTANT IMIOVISIOVS
NOT IX ItOCSK nil.I, |
I Other important provisions of ' tho
Senate bill not in tho House measure;
1 include the following-:
; Appropriation of $15,000,000 for con-!
structlon of government plants for'
j production of nitrates to he used in j
1 manufacture of ammunition.
Provision for vocational education !
j of enlisted men of the. regular armv.
: compelling instructor- either in agri
culture or the mechanical arts.
Creation of a National Guard section
j ,fie general staff of the army, and
1 requiring all officers and enlisted men;
j of the National Guard to subscribe j
j to an oatl. to support the United States!
1 as well as the respective States.
| Provision for Federal pay for all j
| National Guard officers above the rank '
I of captain.
n.;causc of the radical differences 11. i
\ Is expected that the House will at once
j ask for a conference, and that work
j of perfecting the filial form of a new
j army measure will begin within a few
i duya.
Life Imprisonment
Is Faie of Schiller
W II.>11 NATO'S, l?t:i... April IS.?
l.lfe Imprisonment mhh Hie .sentence
Imposed In the t nlled Stntex I)In~
trlct Court here to-ilo.T on KfticNl
Schiller, nlln* < Inreniv It. Hudson,
who forcibly took po>?*e?i?lon of the
Itrlti^li nlenmer Mntoppo oft' Hie
IJelntrnre llrenhnntrm, nelxcd the
rri'w anil compelled the cnptnln lo
I'liRtiEr the Nhlp*M co?ir?e. He will
lie tnKen to the l''eil ?? rn I prison nt
AHnnln In ?? few day*.
Schiller ihK miirnitiK plended
icollty to n ohnrjte of piracy. In 11
ntiitemenl he denied tlint IiIm motive
nnM rohlier.T. He declared Hint he
nelred the Mntoppo, believing; Hint
the *cwwel cnrrleil munition*! for the
entente nllle?. "for the en?i*e of
(iermun *
... ? ?- apatfattHMMMM
Lieutenant Kdgnr S. (iorrell (left) and Lieutenant Herbert A. Dargue,
army birdnnui, who made record flight, photographed standing beside their
maeiilne at Casus Grande. The*>e two aviators flew from San Antonio,
t'hihuahna, to Columbus, X. M., a'distance of 330 miles, In four liouis and
ten minutes, making only 0110 stop at Csusas (irando.
CRISIS IN STRUGGLE
Knylish Government Serins About to
f?o to JMeors on Kocks of
I'niversal Service. !
j
ASQI'ITH MAY DISAIM'KAR ?
He Refuses to Remain Member of
Cabinet if Nation-Wide Conscrip
tion Is Resorted To Lloyd George ,
nnd Ilonar Law Center of Gossip.
LONDON. April IS.?That a grave
crisis Is Imminent is undeniable, but,
a'-cotcling to an authoritative statement
to-night, no resignations have yet been ;
tendeied, and li will be several daysi
before the crisis Is reached.
Both sides are collecting all their 1
available forces for t.he Parliament
struggle over Sir Kfdrt'ard Carson's
motion for universal military service, i
Strong whips are out. and all the!
members of the House of Commons;
serving at the front have been :
granted leave to remain in London
until a division is taken.
Political gossip to-night centers'
mainly around Minister of Munitions'
David Lloyd George and Winston!
Spencer Churchill anil the possibility'
of Lloyd George succeeding Mr. As
ciuith as the head of the government. j
i.i.ot i) <;r.om.K is itit men
\S HIS NATCH A I. SI CCKSSOIl
In the event of the disappearance of
Mr. Asquith as a result of his refusal
to remain a member of n government'
resorting to universal service. Lloyd
George is regarded in many quarters
as his natural successor. Uut against'
this- solution Is the facl that a very j
strong section of the I'nionist party is
entirely opposed to Lloyd George as I
it Is to Mr. Asquith.
Moreover, it Is known that Andrew
Ftonar Law, a conscriptionlst in princi-i
pie and leader of the I'nionist party (
prior to entering the coalition govern
ment. and whose reputation as a par
liamentarian has grown enormously
since the war. making him a possible j
successor to Mr. Asquith, attaches the
utmost importance in the national In-!
terest to the maintenance of the fires-'
er.t coalition ministry in power.
The llouse of Lords to-night agreed
to the motion of the Marquis of Crewel
to adjourn on the ground that the Cabi-J
net members were not in a position to
make a statement on the question of
compulsory service for all ellgibles. i
A resolution demanding universal;
compulsory military service was t?re-,
sen ted in the House of Lords to-day!
l?y Lord Milner. lie repudiated the
idea of being the spokesman of any
party or group, saving he presented the
motion with the greatest reluctance.'
and that he realized the inconvenience,
which might be caused by public dis
cussion of such a matter.
He was l*d to present it, he e*. ,
plained, because it was "the eleventh j
(Continued on Second l'ugv.) j
RETURN OF VON PflPEN
PAPERS IS DEMANDED
German Kniliassy Also Requests Re
lease of Forme- Secretary of He
called Military Attache.
IMPORTANT IX XT Mi: NTS SivIZEI)
\'oii Igel Arrested hy Agents of De
partment of Justice After Making
Desperate Resistance?Held for
Complicity in AVellaiid Canal Plot.
WASHINGTON. April IS.?The Or
man embassy to-day demanded of ihe
State Department the immediate re
turn of papers and documents seized
by agents of the Department of Justice
in New York from the office formerly
occupied by Captain Franz von Papen,
the recalled military attache of tho
embassy. At the same time the em
bassy requested the release of Wolfe von
Igel. Von Papon's former secretary, ar
rested by the authorities in New York
on an indictment charging conspiracy
to blow up the Wetland Canal.
Counselor Polk, of the State Depart
ment, to whom t tie representations
were made, at once advised tho De
partment of Justice to return the
papers, and to free Yon Igel unless the
offense alleged against him was com
mitted before be became a member of
the embassy staff.
Assistant Attorney-General Warren,
in charge of neutrality prosecutions,
said to-night the matter had not been
brought to his attention. It was un
derstood that the State Department's
request would be acted on to-morrow.
D i:>l A \I)S THAT I'AI'KKS
UK SICAM'UJ AND IIKTI RNKI)
Prince von I lat/.fehlt, consul of -tho
embassy. who made the representations,
demanded that the papers and docu
ments be sealed anil restored without
being photographed or copied. The ac
tion was based upon tho ground that
the ofllce in which the seizures oc
curred, in reality is a branch of the
embassy. It was said at the embassy
thai the contents of the papers were
unknown there, and that the demand
for their restoration was made after
Von Igel had communicated over the
long-distance telephone from New
York.
State Department records show that,
formal not ill cat ion' of the appointment
of Von igel was received during last
September, after Von Papen hail been
declared persona noil grata. Von Igel
had been in the otllee of Von Papen
for several months prior to that.
Teutonic officials appeared lo be sur
prised on being Informed that the re
lease. of Von Igel had been condition
ally ordered. They contended that
Ihey bad been Informed thai the re
lease of the prisoner woulit bp uncon
ditional. A lengthy report on tho af
tContinuctl on Second Pi^ge.j
GRAVE SITUATION
CALLS FOR TAKING
OF DRASTIC STEPS
Crisis in Relations With Berlin Has Become
So Acute That Diplomatic Break Is
Believed to Be Impending.
JOINT SESSION OF BOTH HOUSES
CALLED TO-DAY TO HEAR FACTS ?
President Already Has Completed Note Fie Will Deliver
to Congress, and Its Contents Are Being Carefully
Guarded--His Decision Is Made After Conferences
With Senators Stone and Kern and Speaker Clark
Ambassador Bernstorff Calls on Secretary of State
Lansing, but Latter Refuses to Discuss Submarine Issue.
WASHINGTON, April IS.?President Wilson will lay the
submarine crisis before Congress to-morrow.
In the hall of the House of Representatives at 1. o'clock in
the afternoon, with Congress seated before him in joint session,
the President will speak the last words of the United States to
Germany in the Krave situation which has kept the two nations
on the brink of a break for nearly a year.
Developments, yet. undisclosed, and of the most solemn
importance, are expected to follow quickly.
UI/I'IM ATl'M AM) SEVERANCE OK RELATIONS L1KELV
An ultimatum to Germany, and even the severance of
diplomatic relations, are the two most likely eventualities.
At 10 o'clock to-morrow morning the President will, receive
at the White House Chairmen Stone and Flood, of the Congress
[committees dealing with foreign affairs, and Senator Lodge and
Representative Cooper, the ranking Republican members.
The oft-repeated statement from the White House and by
[administration officials that before breaking off diplomatic
relations with Germany the President would fully advise the
heads of the Foreign Affairs Committees was recalled to-night
in connection with the announcement of the meeting, and it was
everywhere regarded as the forerunner of a development of
utmost gravity.
To-night all official Washington, fearing the worst and
hoping for the best, is practically in ignorance of the details of
the President's plan.
Soon after noon to-day and just, after the Cabinet hurl departed tho
President summoned Secretary Tumulty, lie instructed him to go to tho
Capitol at 4:30 o'clock?and not before?and arrange for a joint session
of House and Senate at 1 o'clock to-morrow ufternoon. The President did
not state his purpose to his secretary, and instructed him specifically to
inform the leaders lie had no knowledge of the President's design further
than that important affairs were to be communicated to Congress.
PROMPTLV AT HOIK SECRETARY GOES TO PRESIDENT'S ROOM
Promptly at. the hour named his secretary went to tho President'.1!
room in the Capitol and sent for Chairmau Stone aud Floor Leader Kern.
?After a hurried conference they went to the House side and talked with
Majority Leader Kltchin.
A few minutes later a resolution for a joint session was Introduced
in the House.
"Does the gentleman from North Carolina desire immediato action on
this?" asked Representative Mondell. acting as Republican leader In tho
nbsence of Representative Mann.
"Yes," responded the Democratic leader. "I understand tho President
has some very important, communication to make."
Without debate or opposition the House at once passed tho resolution,
and the clerk carried it over to the Senate. Up to the. moment tho cleric
entered a majority of the Senators still were In ignorance of tho
development.
Senator Kern, at a point in the dividing aisle of the Senate, and before
the Vice-President's desk, awaited the clerk's announcement of the House f
resolution and promptly asked tor a similar resolution.
As soon as its meaning was learned the Senate was electrified, and
in tense silence passed the resolution.
SENATE GALVANIZED WITH REALIZATION OF ITS SIGNIFICANCE
Secretary Tumulty returned to the. White House, and Congress, as tho
possibilities of the President's action dawned upon it. was galvanized with
a realization of its significance.
The Senate, which had settled down to a night session on the army
bill, listened attentively* while Senator Williams spoke of the need of
national defense, and in quick succession adopted amendments which in
effect would create a fighting force of 1.000,000 men. The reorganization
of the National Guard, the creation of a. volunteer army, military
training in schools and an amendment to increase tho standing army to
155C.OOO men?a number much in excess of tho Military Committee's
recommendations, or the provisions of the House hill?were quickly
approved, and the bill itself was passed and sent to conference to adjust
differences with the House.
There was no visible connection betweeu the two events, hut its
.significance was remarked upon. There is only oue incident in modern
diplomatic history in which a breaking of diplomatic relations between two
tirsi-class powers has not been eventually followed by war. It is tho
breaking of relations between Germany and Italy, and it stands alono as
a precedent against what diplomatists regard as tho inevitable.
WILSON FEELS THAT CONGRESS SHOULD KNOW ALL FACTS
President Wilson's purpose in going before Congress is explained to
bo in recognition of the .{act that, while the executive branch of the
government has power to break diplomatic relations. Congress alone has
Hie power to declare war. and the President feels, therefore, that it should
lie advised of an action in which it subsequently may be called upon to
bear a part.
President Wilson has guarded with unusual precautions for secrecy
the words he will deliver. Contrary to custom, no copy of lits remarks
will bo given out in advance. He will read from personally prepared
manuscript on which he has worked three days, of which no copy was
made. Some of the Cabinet members know, and they are bound In honor
not to reveal the President's aim before he speaks to Congress, tho country
and Germany. The President has refused to tell his own secretary, because,
as the President expresses it, he expected his secretary would be questioned
about it.
Count von Uernstorff. the German ambassador, called upon Secretary
Lansing, by direction of his government, almost ?t the moment tho
President was arranging the joint session of Congress, nnd was informed
that the secretary could not discuss the situation with him at this time.
It .WU8 OiiUenl that iliu ainbabsiulor was bcekiug, information oI ths
