X W (pTl'rT Try-'
r
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and warmer to-day; to-morrow
cloudy, probably showers.
-'Highest temperature yesterday, 51 : lowest, 41.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
Detailed weather, mntl nml marlno reports on pae. IS,
r
PRICE TWO CENTS.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 232.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 1916. CoPVroM,m6,hu the au,i Printing and PMlMoAcMlon.
S$UVL
r s
MEXICO CHIEFS MA YOR sa ys phone
unDMDCDOUiMn WIRES WERE TAPPED
llRiuuDnonimi
TO HALT CHASE
THIRD STATE ENTERS! U.S. STEPS IN TO SET WILSON CALLS JOINT SESSION
BIDDINGER TANGLE i VON PAPEN AID FREE, HI7 mhinQFW T(l.ndV RRFAK
WITH GERMANY EXPECTED
TO DETECT A CRIME
fiirrnnii Leaders Predict j
Trouble if He (Joes Fur-
Iher South.
Witnesses in Charity Inquiry Suspected of Perjury, and
Indictments May Follow, Mitchel Adds Woods
Ordered Eavesdropping by Police.
Frank land, Second Deputy
Commissioner. Informed District
Police I abused In this ffltn!" the District Altor-
Attor-
that
2,:iim MOKE TROOPS
First Chief Again Asks
Wilson to Withdraw .
Soldiers.
t.UKK CONFERS
German Consul at Parral
Led Biots.
I Commissioner Woods had lnntlttiteU the
, "tapping" of telephone wires used by
, men prominently connected as witnesses
SENT INTO MEXICO;"1"1 thr charities Investigation. This
disclosure was nude after the District
i Attorney Icarnrd from the geueint coun-
i sei of tho New York Telephone Company
that the cutting In had been done at the
behest of "a hlsh city ottlclal."
Mayor Mitchel Issued the following
, statement last night regarding the case:
1 "On Information that a crime had
' been committed, lodged by the Commis
sloncr of Charities, tho police listened
to telephone conversations over three
' telephone wires. No other wires what-
WITH' PIM'XMlKXT t'r wcrB Interfered with. This the
,uln 1 11 t"'ii J. 1K,ce ,,u, un,,cr nuthorlty of law j
am Informed that tho evidence obtained
may lead to Indictments. It will be
t - ti- l i Mil i developed publicly at the proper time
RptlM't in A llSlniltrtO I l iat t understand, al nn early date."
1 , l"l. I In Ihn T t.MI. IWmlu
divulging facts which bote out the accu
satlons by persona' allied with Catholic
charities that eavesdroppers had over
heard some of their talk, word came
from Albany that tho bill of .Senator A.
' W. Hurlingumc. Jr., to restrict police
I espionage on the telephone had been
I rushed through the preliminary stages In
. both branches of the Legislature with
lecord breaking rapidity.
i The outlook Indicated that the measuie
would come up for a ote late to-day..
commissioner Woods went to Albany
yesterday, having left the city about
I noon.
Ciprctrd Perjured Kxldrncc
In explaining how the police rnmo to
enter the tangled charities situation.
Deputy Commissioner Lord told the Dis
trict Attorney and later the teportcrs
that Commissioner Woods had found
that "perjury had been and would be
committed" In the Inquiry before Com
missioner Charles 11. Strong, appointed
by the (Jovernor to examine charges
brought by John A. Kingsbury, Charities
Commissioner, against the State Hoard
of Charities.
"Tim Information," said the Deputy
Commissioner. " came from a reliable
source. On the strength of this the Com
mls'tloner directed the detective bureau
to tap the wires."
Mr. I.ord told District Attorney Swann
that the Police Department then took
. the regular step of sending a form lettw
I to the New York Telephone Company
Carranza Again Asks
U. S. to Recall Troops
fp4eiit Cnblt V;ifc. to Til Sun
MEXICO CITY, April 18.
Gen. Carranza renewed rep
resentations to-day to the United
States throuch Ambassador Des
ignate Arredondo for the retire
ment of the American troops now
in Mexico, according to Assistant
Secretary of Foreign Affairs
Amador,
James Linn Rodger, United
States apent with Carranza, con
ferred at length to-day with
Judge Charles .S. Douglas, Car
ranza's legal representative. Both
declined to say what was dis
cussed. Mr. Kodgers, his aid, Mr.
I'arkcr. and other American em
ployees are moving the United
ftatcs offices from the Brazilian
Legation to the American Km
'ay building.
Gen. Gutierrez reported that
Ccn. Ilorrcra had left Chihuahua
city for I'urral.
West Virginia Wnnts IMcc-j Wolf von Ijrel, Seized for Wei-
live lo Testify Against
Alleged Hriber.
IM.OT TO III'SH IflM T()lil
Inml Cnnnl Plot, OIvch
$20,000 liail.
I HillTS FKDERAIi AflKXTS
RUSSIANS TAKE TREBIZOND
IN LAND AND SEA ATTACK
iiey was asked.
"I can't conceive of myself doing any
thing like It." was his response. "Noth
lng exactly similar to this Instance of
wiretapping by the police has come
within my knowledge before. Hut so
far as any cilmlnal charge is concerned
the explanation of Commissioner Lotd
satisfies me."
When It was pointed out that Senator
Hurllng.imes bill was designed to cor
red any possibility of abuse of this
power, the District Attorney remarked:
"I wouldn t like to see senator mirim
game's hill passed." He professed Ig
norance of the authority that was be
hind Commissioner Woods, though Cath
olic priests uho suspected their Mires
Mere meddled Mith chained tint the
sanction c.irno from City Hall"
"No department head would dare do a
thing tike that on his own Initiative."
said Father James J. lUggtus. mper
lsor of Catholic charities In Brooklyn.
Tho ltev William II. Karrell an
nounced last night that he Mould file
suit against Mayor Mitchel. Charities
Commissioner KliiRSbury, Police Com
missioner Woods and olllclals of the
New York Telephone Company, charg
ing collusion to place him in the light
of a criminal.
The satisfaction of District Attorney
Swann In Deputy Commissioner Lord's
explanation was not shared by his for
mer campaign manager, Alfred J. Tal
Icy, Mho Is counsel for the three men
whose wires were admitted to have liven
tapped. Ilcfore conferring with Judge
Sm.iuii jestenlay he said that In view nf
the standing of Father Farrell the
police should Indicate the smirce of their
action, and that If necessary he would
have the case taken to the Grand Jury.
After the consultation Judge Swann an
nounced that his Investigation would be
continued.
Kift.v-one Charges in Chii'Ugo
Culled Only Scheme of Man
Ife Accuses.
Announcement was made yesterday
that the State of West Virginia would
ask Gov. Whitman to revoke his war
rant of extradition for the return to
Illinois of Guy Illddlnger. former Chicago
detective sergeant, against whom fifty
one charges have been made In Chicago.
The ground upon which the third Stale
Injects Itu'lf into the case is tli.it the
return of the man to Illinois at this time
AixmimmI Man, Saying He's Em
bassy Member and Immune,
nets Hernstorff Help.
Navy Cooperates With Grand Duke's ArmyTurks
Flee After Furious Battle at Asia Minor Sea
port Are Being Hotly Pursued.
Virtual ritimatum Will Oo
to Berlin After
Address.
DIPLOMACY NOW
CONSIDERED AT END
Wolf von Igel. Capt. Fran on Pa-1
pen's man Friday, whom Count von I
Hernstorff sought In vuln to have listed
as a member of his official family lm- j
mime from arrest, was arrested yewter- j
day morning on a warrant charging him I
with having engaged In a military en-,
terpilse to blow up the Welland Canal.
Ills name was the llfth In tin- Indictment ,
churning Capt. von Papon, tc.-alled mill
peiml latitt lieriialcti to Tiir Scs
Ik).Mm)N, April 18. Treblzond, one of
the most strongly fortified and most
Impoitatit lllack Sea ports In Asia Minor,
has fallen Into the hands of the Hus-elans
F.rzertun without IosIiik i.nge milliners
In prisoners
may prexent him from appearing as the I tary attache of the German Embassy
.. operation of the army
i ml navy the
j i.i ry aiiacue oi me Merman r.rnoasn ,
principal wltncv, for the State If the Capt. Hans T.iusohcr and others will. " """ "Pe...
United States Supreme Court decides being Implicate,! In the plot to destroy) uPI'ears to have taken place at the
' I tI.M. nt ,Iia A te I..-, l.'..ia.i It. n'l.lh
that A. I.eo Well. Pittsburg lawjer and 1 the Canadian waterway
reformer, must stand trial in West Vlr-j The arrest of Von Igel, a dapper young
glnla on a charge of attempting to j German, threatened International corn
bribe public officials. j plications last night. Count von Hern
T. C. Townsend, District Attorney of'storlT requested the State Department
Treblzond is mi ancient seaport of
sreat commcrrlal Importance, due
chiefly to the foot that It controls the
i point nheie the principal ti.'ide route
Ft nm ti'i'-ta mitt ... iitr.il Asl:i to Km one.
The Pettotr.id War Office announced over Armenia and bv way of Ilnjesld
latu tu-ulBlit that thanks to the co-, and Krzerum. descends to the sea. It;
t .1-- ,1... -I..
to release the defendant on the ground
that ho was a memlier of the embassy
staff, but I'nlled States District Attor-
Kanawha county, West Virginia, Is In
the city and It Is expected that Gov.
Hatfield will come to New York to
make a personal request that Gov.
Whitman revoke .his warrant, at nreeent
stayed by habeas corpus action, and I ,''" ,'?!.,!?
that further proceedings be postponed v.t ,, ,lrri.t fr ,inv crime
gatee of the city last Friday, In which
i the Turks made a last desperate Maud,
but were defeated by the Muscovite
forces, whosu attack was aided by the
Kuselan naval guns off the coast. "Most
daring" landings were made, the Hus
'.an War Office reports, under the pro
tection of the naval artillery
ney II Snowden Marshall said he had I ' . ,
been Informed by tho Attorney-General Trebliond has been taken. The
no connection with1 ull' enerKciio enoris oi our vauca-
the German Cmbassv that inlirhi ore- i,n"' nd "lack ftea licet have
until after the trial of the West Vir
ginia caee. The United States Supreme
Court Is expected to hand down its de
cision this week.
requesting permission to cut in on tiS
i lines to get Information for ottlclal put
po--es. Three applications were filed
' successively, according to Mr. l.oru, on
Wfii ,m to-. . April 1. Cairanxlsta , jiiircb 1. and 25,
n. , ..i !.. In ..nlilh.rn l-lillm.i. Oil tllOSC lU.VS tllC llllCS that were
ed warning on Ifclg.-Geii.
thrown oix-n to the police led to the
homes. of the Itev. Father William H
vice-president of the New York Tele
phone Company, declared emphatically
that the Police Commissioner 111 his re
quest to lue a special wire tapped
must always state his reason, and that
the company "does not Indiscriminately
allow the privilege to be abused.'
However, the State Department an-
pounced that It had requested the re- 1
lease of the German provided tin, al-1
Jegcd crime was committed at the time
that, according to Von ISernstorff. Von
Igel was attending to loutlne work that1
pieviously had fallen to Capt. von Pa-!
pen
lte,ilrr nourished.
1 Know notning oi tne meiiis oi tue ,f rolm, U) t,.rll!,,orfr continues his
charges aga nst Hlddinger in t.hlcago. I t.frrN , ..i,,.,,,, lllmu,,tv for Von Igel1
I do know, however, that A. Io Well. ,,,.v wurl,rsllK M,Ua,OI1 mav ro(lut
who stands rlmiged m West Irgmiii I Von lg,. sought bv force both to pre-
witn attempting to i.rine two meini,er N,.t ,,rrHt lin, nH to nrevent Jo-
fulls II Well' Scheme.
, Mr. Townsend. who t at the Holland
(nmunns In. 1. 1, on llrn.on. In ,,wUc(, tnc foIowlnB Matcimnt
l.awir Pwar.e and Frank II. ltcthel. last night:
of the Public Scrvlie Commission of that
State. Is behind the charges against the
We don't Inquire as to whoe wire 11 man. Mr. Weil is now In this elt lie
being tainved." Mr. Hethel said. "It I luis appented In rouit iltirlng proceedings
would make no difference whether It was . mis ruse and he is Insisting upon e.
Mr Humes or Mr. Murphy, If the police iraiitlon, It is a mistake to say that the
believed a crime had been committed." State of Illinois Is proceeding against
This practice, which has len going mddiuger It Is A. Leo Weil,
on since lfo:. and even as far back as "in.Minger is an Important witness in
PJflO, according to some police ofTlcia s. I .0 l)r)0ry ,... ln West Virginia Well
will oe consioeraoiy cunaoeu , ,, ,K.e ,)rear,B his defence In ad-
lwen crowned by the eoyquist of this
fortlticd town, the most important po
sition on the Anatolian coast
Our valiant troops, after the san
guinary battle of the 14th on the Kara
Here Klver. pressed the Turks without
lesplte and kunuounted Incredible ob.
staeles, terywure breaking the tierce
tolMnnce of the enemy
The well combined action of the
ll-et permitted the execution of most
hazardous landing operation and lent
the support of Its artillery to the
troops operating In the coastal region.
Ciedit for this fiesli vlcloiy ulso Im
partly due to the assistance given the
Caucasian army by the troops operat
ing in other directions In Asia Minor.
My their deaperate nghtlng and heroic
exploits they did everything in their
power to facilitate the t.vk of the
lias beep the dream of Itussla for cen
turies to put her hands forever uikhi
this Important "v.indow on the Hlack
Sea."
Treblzond's population Is about 40,01)",
of whom SS.twi) :ue Moslems, and 1S.O00
Christians. The city first figured In his
tory during the fourth crusade, when
Alexius Comnenus, with mi at my of
Iberian mercenaries, entered It and es
tablished himself as sovereign. In 14rtl
TrehUotid was taken by Mohammed It,
after It ha for two centuries been the
capital of an empire, having defied nil
' attacks, principally by virtue of Its
Isolated position, between a harrier or
rugged mountains of from ",0U to 5,00
feet, and the sea
I.at,r the city Mas st-veral times be
sieged, the mot memorable attack being
that In which Mohammed II took It,
after Its powerful fortlcatlons had re
slsted his onslaughts for a long time,
lllstoilans agtec that evn then the city
would not have fallen but for tin almost
t.ucondltlunal sunender by David, the
last l.mperor.
bills Introduced In the legislature by
Senator Hurllncatne and Assemblyman
William Thome Simpson arc passed.
The measure as It nnnliy appeareo in
vanre. For sixteen months he has Grugurevlch, a Federal agent.
scph A. Ilaker. assistant divisional su-
P'-rlntetident of the Department of Jus
tice's lltireau of Investigation, from selz- '
ii.g vnilnu documents and papers scat-
lr'i iii iim.iii on me iweni.1'-.
fifth lb,ir of 10 Wall street. He made, detachments on the coast
a struggle, assisted by George von Skal.
Ills associate, who formerly w-as City
Commissioner of Accounts, and In the
struggle there was rough work and the
flourishing of n revolver by John J.
availed himself of every possible tech
nicality known to the law to avoid being 1
tried by n Jury of West Virginia, the '
the Senate and Assembly read as follows: nl)y ,ri,,UIln, ,hiU ,. ,'ry ,m a,i l)e
section i--.Article .. ' r""' termlne his guilt or his Innmeu. e. and
Law Is hereby amended by adding ntthe . nQB. lf(or ,,,, UCT, r,mcliu., arn
enu a new secuon. io m...... --. ,, , llnil . re,,Zes that he may
in I, .III luillinn
"7::--OverlienrltiK te'Mihone conve--
eations Any person who, with inlent
. i.mandcr of the American VuTTrlit ailor of ,ho Unman Catholic nvernni,V a conversation on a public
'lc..co, that any attempt on ciiurclt of peter mm raui, iirooKiyu (). privntP telephone line, uses any de
. iun ,w. V,..n,ln.., e,,...ll,l,.ii In IJ". Llatl l'l 1 -. I'OllCr, CX-ll.ipilSl Ciei 14 - . ,.!. ...Iitimi, the Lnnve eilce mill COtlSeill
... d ftufer south will lead to serl- "'"n "nd 'ori ''Vi'i.i, V' ot 'J'"1"' ""c" n'""l0"
..L-...U, ...... - Ullll IM .'I IIHJ.H-IVrt.liM t I t i . ,
The maximum punishment tor a tuts-1 " , .
. . , ,vi , i peareii in o
un,! M.;,o Puller, his son. All . i, t-j I rant
uf iiuirne three were subpeenaed to appear before
.Major-Gen. runston. forwarding the Commissioner Strong In his Inquiry to i ,eieurior Is one vear In prison and a
rirt'nng iM'ort s unde-.stood to have fl the authorship of the so-callea far- t flne of j50 Commissioner Strong said
as .hte.e.ng the attitude of tf
tr.e Cirranzlstn.- and to have asked for , bu, ll(t llPpectcd the person who
fjrtii,-. nstructioiis. He I said to hav c ' Sir iiinriUer Loplrd Talks. did It.
a ideil fat in view of the Information For several days after the wlren were Hubert W llebberd. who has resigned
1, , ,,e.st,m lie h u. alreolv fhn.wi, tapped stenographers In a downtown po- . ns secretary of the Slate Hoard of Churl
i, -pe-sun, ,e h.us already thlown ,lcl(.' stallon ..nstei,ed In" nnd made notes tle, Mild last night that he had been
..C"i additional troops acrosa the border (,r the conversations. Neither Father 1 considering this step for some time be
i" guard tlie nu of communication. Farrell. Dr. Potter nor his son, the Dep- fore he handed In his resignation on
Th.-fe was no coullrmatlon of ptess uty Commissioner asserted, was involved Wednesday last, having become "tired of
,. . . , , , in the ntrjury cbarge. but It waa thought the whole thing."
it, from the border of fresh attacks ("a't tll'ey Jwouid furnish Information con- William Ithlnelandcr Stewart, vresl
C.inanzlslas on Gen Pershing's cernlng tne statements of a fourth man. t dent of tho board, denied that any cnol
forccs "What we did get was of value," Mr. nets has sprung up betwieu htm and
w,,!.., r vv.r it. r,.o.,...in ...... Lord said. "We did ill this case what Mr. Hebbeid, and that the name of the
i have to go to tilal he goes down among
the Apaches of Chicago and resurrei (s
charge against Illddlnger, none of which
Is less than live years old.
"A remarkable feature of the case Is
that within a few bourn after the wai-
for the arrest of Illddlnger had
In Chicago the news ap
peared ln one or the I'liarleston news
papers frlindly to Mr Weil, together
with a long article prepared In advance
to be released when the arrest was
niade. It would rtrlkc me that Mr Well
has not told all the facts to the Chicago
authorities, hut Is attempting to use
them to defend himself against grave
charges ln West Virginia."
ln all seventy pounds of German doc
uments were found. These papcts- are
aid not only to have revealed details of
the alleged plot to blow up the Welland
Canal but also other actlvltl, s on the
part of himself It was from room 2.nl.
in Wall stteet. that Capt. von I 'a pen Is
alleged to have sent out orders for his
various military enterprises and other
destructive plots, to have sent checks
and detailed Von Igel as me-senger, w 1th
Instructions and cash.
The papers seized In the presence of
Von Igel and Von Skal are said to have
laid Kile part of Von Papen's schemes
and some of the work that was done
after his departure. In the otll. e was a
safe liear.ng the seal of the Imperial
German Government, whn.li Von Igel
.111,1 Armenia. The Ituss an Grand Duke
An ofllclal Hurslan statement Issued took practically the same loute Xeno-
carller to-night told of the ejection from, plain's pursiieis hud taken.
President to Tell Congress
lies Forced to Take
Decisive Step.
BKHNSTOItFF AGAIN
WAIiXK OF A WAR
Has a Talk Willi Lansing
Both Extremely
Cordial.
Washington, April IS. I'tcsident
Wlbion will go before a Joint session of
the two houses of Congress nt 1 o'clock
to-morrow on the German submarine
Issue.
This atiiioiiiKeni. tr. ti ll upon olllclal
Washington to-night with dramatic
Tl.i, flt.i.l IIhIia Vli.linl.iw ta imeli. .
of the Czar, whom the world believed lo suddenness and brought the submarine
have been shelved "for good" wh. n Urn- , controVersv K.a ..tage w lute j-eveianca
peror Nicholas took from him the chief
command of the forces In Itussia and I in" diplomatic rela.ions and even more,
sent blni to the Caucasus, has realized. , .
tempora.ll at any late, the dream of "l'rluw consequent cs ul(, ,,, mm...
Itussia i diutc possibilities..
It was at Tiebizond that Xcnophon. as
cotnmandiv of the Greek army. In the Tho PrtIdent . not, to Hernuny,
ytai IM II C ""'if.'1, '!V'"11rl'.!i!C I which B virtually an ..Itlinult.m de-
march tluouglj the wilds of Kuidlstan
many positions of the Turks west of
Krzeruin and the occupation of Droua,
six and one-halt miles cast of Treblzond.
The statement follows:
In the Caucasus we occupied Drona,
s. and one-half miles east of Trebl
zond. West of F.rzerum the Turks weie
driven out of many positions.
How fast the Ilusslan drive .Vying the I
Hlack Sea coast has been, and how weak (ierntniis Iteport Culture of IImcU
the Turkish resistance must he are Illus
trated by the fact that yesterday the
inandlnc that Germany cease her Hie
gal methods of submarine warfare, has
i been held up. but wilt go forward
.-ed Con-
After the city passed Into luiklsh
hands powerful modern fortifications were after the President lias nildr
added to the excellent 1 1. iUir.ll defences. I ,.esJ,,
In the city theie are u number of Inttr- '
cstlng monuments of ancient histoiy in
the form of chuiches In the Hyznntlne
stjle of architecture.
RUSSIAN REPULSE AT DWINSK.
nt llrlditelirml.
No nulhorllbth o etaiement was
forthcoming to-nfirht concernitii; tha
I'tcsident' address, and a ,i tcMiIt
many and varieii reports ttnc in nr
ciihition. 'I he Intliiiiilinii rame (rum hlcli . . f it
rial sources, Imweier, that Hie I'rrsliUiit
.Muscovite troops as having occupied
Suniieiie, about nineteen miles east of
Treblzond, and as having reached a
point about twelve miles from the city
Kvldently there was, as predicted e.
ill ni
folliIng statement regaidlng operations 1 . tj i, a seterniire nf illplmiiatle irlii.
on the east front was Issued to-day ,.., ,. ,.,.,. ,..,.
Husslati attacks early this morning f ( ongre.. to.m.irr.iw
at the Dwlnsk bridgehead on the uai- I "'iiK" io.iu..rr.iw.
row front eolith of Garhunovka broke i Mt'roliiry l.iuMng dtciinul lo cun-
terday. hardly any opposition on the, ,wn In front of our positions with ilrtn or deny such r Pol ts and tefcrred
part of the ottomans, whose forces seem heaw loses. i , . 1
' . . .. . . .... m . I . . .. 1 :ill (linn rl..L 1.. il... M't.. ... II. ......
to be badly shattered despite the fac
r.ceipt of the Funston despatch, carried
t rcr.sonally to the office of Secretary
if State Laming,
that of nlaclng a dictagraph In a man s
Tee two conferred some time concern-1 room' 7e U!" h, 1 ,V,7 ?, .Ten rfni .'nt
. , , ., . . . been an Invaluable aid to the deiartment
is li. f.llowlng which the Secretary of , the detection of crime. I can say
Wr got into communication with the 1 that from my experience as head of
White House and made nn appointment i the detective bureau',"
confer wh tho Wc.ldent a, , o'clock UTX'nS
'o-n:sht. Mr. Haker was with the Pres-1 receiving notincatlon from the District
went a out an hour, but declined to com- Attorney of tho latter's visit at noon to
mint on the object of his visit. Ueforc I the office of John L. Swnyze. Keneral
11.1. i counsel lor m-- wn .,.,.
Uaker ' T))ere jj,., swayze explained with a
diagram the mechanical arrangement by
to Gen. vvhlch an outsnier couiu jac m mi
a wire. lie also gave juoge nwuun mr
U,B i .. . i... memhee nt the cltv admlnls-
' ura, tcr of the expedition or Its move-, tratoll wi,o had authorized tho com
muitt, p,uiy to ,ap tho three wires In Urooklyn.
There Is no charge against the tele
eriiiiin sliunllon 'llnlers. phone company at all." said the DIs-
feMi te this announcement theie Is i 11. Attorney on n re u, ,
nciais am ooiik" "
Hon to any officer whose duty It Is to
we have done In hundreds of others latter's successor had not yet been sug-
In the Gondnrf case, for Instance. I here i gested to the hoard.
Is no difference between this mctnoii uuii
WOODS SEES WHITMAN.
Attacks lltlrintll Makers.
Mr Townsend said that details of Hie
charges made against Hiddinger, a
they appeared m Charleston, showed
that the affidavits were made by confi
dence men. ex-convicts and pickpockets.
In West Virginia, be said, Hiddinger
had blocked a plan through which a
natural gas company was to make its
patrons pay an additional $1 0')0 a
year.
After Gov. Whitman had issued his
warrant foi the return to Chicago of
flammed .shut and locked after he was ,hn, ,hpv m,(. c01Ki tlif lr retreat from I
arrested The contents of that safe
were not levelled, Nevertheless, "if :
Count von HernstotfT, In the name of . .-,..,
his Government, should back up the de- D II 11 A lllv I 17 A 11 KX
maud afterward made by Von Igel that' III III lfillO LDH I DO
he. Von Igel. be declared Immune from .
arrest and that the papers be returned I fflQRft AAA UCTHTUl
N-MUe they Isdonc to the German Km- A IAUU.uUU Djlnllj
bassy. the Ambassador will find himself ' uvvlvvv
It Is said, face to face with a most em-
hatras-ing situation
I In the Halkau front theie is until-
Inp, to report.
'ctlng the Piesident Secretary
14.(1
". have given no orders
Kuwiip thai change In any way
g.owmg anxiety In otllclul circles, and
oflkials continue sceptical con
"ting the iciorts of Villa's death,
inlier of the President's Cabinet are
a 1 to is- tiiging that arinngemeiits be
Kie to withdraw the expedition, par
Ji in view of the German situation.
The argument is finding favor in cer
" ollli tal quarters that tho Admlnls
1 itn.n .i 'ciit the wnid of the Carranza
' '-He mi Ill If ttn Litter .'ikserts tht
x u h vn ad. The White House, how-1
s insisting that only tho most
t.i.ikeetlte offenCCH,
As the District Attorney had been
assured that officials of the company
were ready to relate their story to th
Grand Jury. Judge Swann was asked
if he would have this body take up the
case.
Inquiry Far From Closed.
don't think," he replied,
i .inn't think." he reniteu, "irom
what I have learned to-day that I will
flute nroof nf the h.-indlt'M leatli. ,,rent the matter to the Grand Jury,
lickeu i,v tip. testimony of Americans I don't know what further steps I will
i pes t.on to Identify him, would cause I take. Hut my Investigation Is not closed
i"f u Hit ion tube withdrawn. by any means."
H'ltb Hie state nnd War Departments. When asked If he did not think the
fuseii i comment on a renort under- vnvlng' was counter to section 5j'J.
'tnwi to n lv,i been lecelved here late
I llilftlt fiom l!..n leMlilnr to fh
1 ' 1 'hut the German Consul at Patral
'J hem one of the prime Instigators of
' attack, thero on the American troops
uvltr Major Frank Tompkins. In which
'' I li two Americans were killed, six
soi.dlvlslon 1. of the Penal Law, he
said the paragraph reads as follows:
'A person who -vrongfully obtains or
attempts to 'obtain any knowledge of a
telegraphic or a telehonlc mewaste by
.nnlvnnee with a clerk, operator, in-
senger or other employee of a telegraph
(Misled and one reporte.1 as missing. i or telephone company la punishable by a
Aicordintr lo the report which Gen. j fine of not more than 11,000 or by Im
""s. Ht g Is said to have sent tho German prlsonmcnt for not more than two years,
i""rniniie vmis a fonspicuoua ngurc 0f by notn Burn one nnu oon leuioorin.
on the slreetsi during the nttack and an- Tim District Attorney said that he be
lard to be actively Inciting the Mexl- uevd the police, havlmr reasonable
Tim rtpresentatlons which the State
'''partmciit has sent to Gen. Carranza
concerning the Parral Incident, as stated
In Tun sun this morning, have served
P enable ho American Government to
delay a response to tho formal nolo of
'-'arranza calling on the United Htates
to treat with his Government on the
subject of withdrawing the American
lorccs from Mexico,
jn presenting a synopsis of Oen. Per
nlnr's report to Hen. Carranxa, It wu
burned to-nlKht that Bpeclal Aent
J&mf-H Linn ItfwtirerM at Kfevten cltv val
Imtrutted not only to emphasize the
"isicinnit of Oen, Pershing; that Major
TtwpMns and his troops wero prac
tically Invited Into the town but to nues-
tlon the assertion by Carranu that In
Wrotchlnc the town without permls-
Commlulonrr Hurries to Allinny
as Wire llllls Advance.
At.HVNT. April IS. Police Commis
sioner Woods mode n hurried trip to
Gov, Whitman to-day arid leturned to
New York city without making public
any Information concerning his mission.
One rcison advanced for the Journey
was to explain to the Governor about
the vollce wire tapping. Another rea
son suggested was unusual activity on
the part of Urooklyn lawinnkers concern
ing the wire tapping Incident.
Senator A, Hiirllngnine, .It., and
Assemblyman William T. Simpson of
Kings county have hills practically seady
for final passage making it a misde
meanor to tap ii wire and listen to a con
versation. The amendment to the Penal
Law was priwntod in both branches on
Monday night with tho consent of the
Itepubllcan and Democratic leaders.
Tho legislative programme, It Is as
serted. Includes the passage of the Penal
Law amendment before adjournment on
Thursday.
FILM FIRE ON THE KANSAS.
rrniin,! o believe that a crime had been
. ... A. , . I 1 . . J I 1 . I
r nriiii aDOUl IO UO lOIIIIIIIliru, IMIU 1KB
right to listen In because the next Hiib-
dlvlslon or me 'aw maue nun exeiinnion,
"Kxcept when such telegraphic or tele
phonic message or despatch Is In aid of
or used to dbet or carry on any unlnw
ful business or traffic, or to perpetrate
any criminal offence, and when It Bhall
ppear that any offence at law or unlaw
ful business or traffic la being carried
on or conducted In whole or In tart by
mean of a telegraphic or telephonic me
sate or despatch It shall be the duty of
iny corporation or employee having
knowledge of the same to withhold such
despatch fiom delivery, and to furnish
further to any public officer whose duly
It la to prosccuto any offence at law so
aided and abetted, all information In
ttair possession relating to Mid unlaw
M business or traffic,"
Do mt thlak tin .(jolta ywtr wm
Illaejsckets Lose .Movies and iov-
eriimenl More Than fiCO,OtlO.
Pitti.ADKi.iqin, Aiirll 18. Motion pic
ture Hints, valued at $ 10,000, leased by
tlst) bluejackets or the United States bat
tleshlp Kansas, were desttoyed by the
fire aboard Uncle Sam's sea tighter while
the win ship was In Guantanamo Hay at
the spring target practice on April 5.
Tae damage wus between 120,000 to
K':..ooo.
While the crew was engaged In target
practice there was an explosion and
smoke and flames hurst from the store
room. About thirty feet away there
were .100 rounds of fixed ammunition
The flames could be wen easily by the
other ships, It Im believed tho lire was
duo to spontaneous combustion.
TO SNUB SOCIALIST MAYOR.
Milwaukee Aldermen Will .Vol
llallfr Ilia Appointments.
Mll.wAUKKE. April 18, The non-p.irtl
sari Aldermen who control tho Council
have decided not to ratify any nppoint
n.nt to office made by Daniel W. Hoan.
the Socialist Mayor, who was (naugu
rated to-day, This Is likely to bo a
boomerang, as the, first appointment, that
of W. II. Ollleii, a contractor, not a
Socialist, appointed neon use or his ex
perlence, was denied Immediate conflr
matlon.
The Mayor's Inaugural recommenda
tion declared for a "bigger, better,
brighter Milwaukee," for better harbors
nd car service and other similar re-
, Novelist's Widow, if She Does
Not Kpiiwitv. nml His l)nue:li
tor Oct All in Trust.
I'ree nn M'JO.onn llnll.
For him to claim the papcis i
Pinperty of the German nmhassy would
be tantamount to an admission. Fed-
cral authorities said, that the German i
Fiubassy wascoinlzantofwh.il iin..iiiu
Hiddinger. who was once connected with ti. criminal a,tivities on Hie iun i.e.-..
the Hums agency, but Is now with the map agents In thl countrv The ; d-'
al OI nrrell agency, a writ of habeas , vice was significantly voiced bv a Fed-1 to th" will filed liere to-dav nf the la:e
mUuMlc,,ohaaln,a1S ;,ral I"".10"" ,lV,lIlfl,:nl vnn U'cham Harding DavlP. the novelist and
from Justice t.ohalan. t s returnable ,) widely coached by his cotm-sel he will . , ,,, ,,. ln ,,. ,.,,.
i-rioay niieriiouii ai . n cious. iieiiii e .mis- tsown Von Igel tnnieillatel. fin. I .iu. "'" ""
avow any legal right to the naiiers fiionii tiy home, Cross Hoad Farm, at Mount
Wiiitk I'i.vins, April IS. According
tire HIJur. In the meantime the man 1
out on $30,000 ball. Moses II. Gross-
man, . S. Hutlrr and llytuaii Tnrchln
represent Illddlnger. while William
Travers Jciomc, Isidore Kressel and
Louis Marshall appear with It win N.
Walker, Assistant State's Attorney of
Cook county. III., for the State of Illi
nois. Mr Well wns In court when the
first arguments were heard He Is stop-
all Inquiries to the White Hon-
Decisive sei.
'I'neie is no doubt that the I'ri.iitknt
I at least uitenK tu itiCoini Congress lo-
morrow that l. is coiiiminilcatio'ii to
lierliu i a decisive np vvlilcli leaves
, the L'iiltod States .in altiTii.itlv except
W .sever illliloinatio telntloti.s tn c.le
Germany falls to seize tlii.s ,it chance.
to modify her tm.tliniL of stilitii.irlni
(itM'IIIIIIIV Is I'l'tfOll lO Sl'llll It walfilli. to dp et the l'lisldcnt'H Itniillcd
llelliailllS.
Tile dill (llft'eiellce of opinion in
Washington in ugard to the I'rcsl
ileilt's appearance before Congress Is
wlit-ilicr or not he lt,i decided to Ii-.ivo
any loopholi. for turtlnr t hiu'cskIimm
,;( a tot ltiuitrh to Tin sis j by Germany,
ill MI IV, via Amsterdam, April !". i Tlle Lieneral i:nnn...,, w , .., 1...
The tacuW hr i:,nuM,m, publishes a re- , , .,. , opening, but that It
port that President Wilson and Se.-ritniyi r ,. ' ' " "v
. , ,, , i.. I Will be of u charade w 1 c h ufterx lttlo
BERLIN PRESS IN RAGE
OVER FINAL DEMAND
K I it t IN'fiisiiI to I'ti'sidt'iit
Wilson.
.. C...... I 'll.UM... ...II ....A..t,l . ,1.1 . 1 .1,,- '
m.i'n.i imn'ii lierinanv to fllrn'lsb nrnofs 1 llol'" a"(1 tll-lt the lTe.s,ellt ll.lri lllailts
In the young German's clothes or In hi Klsco on April 11 last, the main portion : of the coruvt demeanor of the German' "I' his mind that a break with tier-
"ooonb't ' fri'' "' of hU ctate. estimated to be worth about I
lt'"ls not 'likely that the F ral all-I ?2r'O'O0P' ls ','aCC,, ln tl"' l'''in'1'' f
thorilles and the police me finished with i trustee for the benefit of h!s. widow.
their Investigation of Von Igel's netlvi- Lllzaheth Genevieve Mclivov Davl. and
I!,?,. "'mT'! !'.'. Wr'' Af.,1"",',1 V""!''1 1 1'ls datiKhler Hope. ;
liliuiliri, ..llll'll nil'
subm.ii me commanders The paper many was now haiillv to be avoided
says I'lesMcnt Wilson h.nl prumiMil tho
"This teport makes ope blusti with Uuder.s fu Cougie.s that p. wimiIi! take
r.IKO Olio sil.lllli- anil urnn, uesne in.,i. ,(.,;lv,. ,nI.,i Wlthnut Itllolllline
Grand Jury Into session yesterday
The will, signed on March IT. 19 IS.
lterltn shonlil categoflcilly refine to
have any ills tisslops on such u tone1
and such a footing with the Washington
attorneys of Ci imglish ana I ten h,
that body of tn purpuse II. regiirdi
the tnovn Which lie is ,lb.. lit t.i t.iko aji
i ikclsive stop ai.'l in iippeariiiu: Ih.
in
i" ' ............ . " n,mr testimony bearing on the plots of 'lircctn tn.it tne testators cony ne ere-- ,(U eruuiepts " lore iouc;res tu-motinw 'ie viq fullll
"'The "lflycne1" charges against Hid- nTie." It I mated and orders that his personal1 T, , r.., ,r nWcs; it mifl save j Ills pledge.
w'rissiieir'w.Te'npi.b. benm" Muimd! 2"rf HtiPjB '' mvlded "wnong lit blow. ICtZr Amei'lean mes l" jJ''evVr, ' one' who Vnlulnk midrosl ,o ."mgrowl'b"
Pal Court Justice, who ranks with a local , X 'vt Pen palll 'om'mo d Nora Davis Farrar. wife of F. P. Farrar '""'- l"" ,1"", f " "- '' will fore-
Police Magistrate In his powers S-me , w ,,.,,,., ,,. , , TllrK0, ... ,, brother. '" Z AilimMi, c oso any attempt to renew ., discus-
of the ctlme.s In the long tlst vveie coin-, fri v .. ' ... . ...... ..i , A'r"",, " '. , Mm Mil ar tn tut win h ris'emlv oc-
milted, according to the atlldavlts as lons i;, ,,I!ll,o;,I ,nn,ls",o Hte '!i ! ,nr"B iMm"n IMv"- , , "nn- ' ' ' t cnmJ In Cogr,.ss over the Mcl.cmo,
ago as ten an, a half years One man HllrillorHi Tllll, ,.nH1., w.eVPr, lH ah. The evecutor. however, shall cspect the r..U. I vis ne ''i;. . ' 'j'1 , i d r.olutlon. Tho l'r,.-l,lent vv.l! not ,,M
accuses the . l-tectlve of having aec. pted ( ,,,.,. ,,lsllnet from the charge on first choice of Mis. Davis as to her share r f .VJi," , for tlto adoption of an v resoli.t ion. but
. ..'!'."" . '"''T.,?.?' e I'.J ."'!'. "r.r,!t:: ' Vn" 'B"1 w" '"dieted and ar-,uf the personal property. The rr.ml.furtrr y.ntun,, admits Presi-1 will inciely r.'citi' fiicts and ..inline th
rfllinuiei i.i.viii-.t. ...... ... ...n.xn . ,'', n.-i- i real...! ....
hook cnnalnlng $0 There are othei . , ... .1 The remainder of the estate is turned
. .. . .. .. i " ...... nn. -in in in.. ,i-iiiioii i anal , . . , , .....
slmilnr cliatges. I'pon theni the Justice ' (.,ht, W((H ,aniled ilown by the Grand over to the trustee, who is to hold It In
una ttxeii nan iiinouiiuiig in an io aooui Jlrv OM ,raJ. Hfternnon. So late was Oust ami pay the Income to the widow
1U"'"'J"' the llOlir that William N Ofney. head ...,.,1 l... .lnneliler Is ?1 ivnry ntil nhi
MUn Hard , l:!i;ecrec,,'regard;ng1' ' ' '
riie case unon which District Attorney and suggested postponing his arrest mi- '''augliter and the balance to Mrs. Davis
Townsend an I counsel for Illddlnger rely , HI the young man could be found In his "as long as she lemalns my widow," the
lo keep hint from going to Chicago dale ' olllce, surrotiuneii ny ms papets. his safe 'testator says.
back to March. 1915. Mr. Well, attorney open and Ills HalT busy I hat sugges. , ... :lUn , , ,......
lion was lotiow..,! ilc,Mh op rf,m.irra8 of j,,., avl,
n..f..r.. . , , lietoie the daughter is 'Jl yeans old all
Mruuule llefore rre.l. ,, of lhp truHt ftmi, lal he
Act oullnglj . Haker. accompanied by paid to Hope until she Is 21 years old,
Federal Agents Stnrek. Cnderhlll and ' when she Is to get one. half of the piln
i liiigiiievleli, went to Von Igel'w olllce at , clpal nnd the balance Is to remain In
Preliminary Conference,
llefom the Pr. .s'lienl goes befnn,
for the Manufacturers Light and Heat '
Company, a natural gas company, was
Indicted by the Kanawha county Grand
Jury on a charge of attempting to bring ',
about the bribing of Howard N. Ogood, 1
a Public Service Commissioner of the
dent Wilson's right to demand an Invest!- action which he lliti ml.-, to t.iki
gntlnn and an explanation where Aiueii
can citizen have lost their lives, hut
spealts of Mr. Wilson's "llery tempera
ment." The paer siigegets that he may
be influenced b Ha- apptoaclilng anttl
versary of tli s nklng of the l.usltanla
and adds that "as he deshes to be re
elected Ills opisnients' .iliiise cannot leave
him i old "
TOO COSTLY FOR JOHN D. ?
Congress he will cunt' r Willi Senium
Stone, i'hiilrin.'in of tho Senate Foreign
Uolatlnns I 'otntin.tec, nml Senator
l.rslue nf tho r.imo comtiutti i. and with
Chairman Flood and Iti presi mat ive
I Cooper o) th" House iVmiirtteo on
1 Foreign Affairs.
. Tito President in his inldrcss will
Stale, to give certain testimony In n , t viock yeslerday mot nine. He left
Federal suit then pending. Mr. Well
made a vlgmous fight, alleging undue In
llticpco nnd Interference by Gov. Hatllcld
and various other olllclals. When the
Supreme Ciftirt of West Virginia decided
against him the lawyer obtained a writ
of error, and this case Is alsnit lo be
decided.
Illddlnger nppeared as a wltnts In the
Griigurev li'h nnd St.tck outside to watch
the exits, taking Cluleihlll with him.
trust for her during her lifetime
Mi- Davis illiects that in the settle
ment of the rntnle the executor shall
Inside IiIh card was received by Von enlist Hie .ervlces of his brother, Charles
Igel, who sent out word that Haker
must evplnln Ills business befnf,. pp.
would be nduilHeil to the Inner olllce.
Thereupon linker, brushing the attend
ant aside, entered Hie private olllce in
lime to see von igei trying to get a
up
H. Davis, "for the putpose of protecting
nml asserting the rights. of mv estate In
nnd lo any and all literary compositions
and lights therein to which my said
estate would he entitled, It being my pur
nose that he he entrusted with the settle
ment of all matters relative to hucIi com
Price of Onsnlenr lleporteil In use i (.over much tho same gtoiiml I III! ho
r I loslnu Ills Ice I'lnul. i hue covered in his tiote to lieiiin. I It)
TO.iotown. i . xpiil is .lonii II
li'.inllilen, Ki-oil nil MXt.v-llve ciisih
will Mow i timiilativo cvnleiico of lllo-
..ftei. siieniline SL'fl.liOil fur S'" " " " l"'-s..,m.-. ei.,.s ,, ,,, .
Itockefellei'
a mo-lei ice plant with the Idea of sup
plying all his nieils has decided to quit
business It wan iiimnred nbnul Pivnn
tlco llllls to-ihi) that the high cost of
gasolene to tun his engine hastened the
closing nf the plant pioilining Lain)
pntiiiilt, of Ice a day, which can be
bought hi Ihe inaiket for about i'
It cost Mr. Ilockefellcr In addition to
tirellmlnarv heariliKH of the West Vlr. ! ...i. a, tiiiiiilti.e IliiUee ulMtittml
uinln case and It appeared then that lie ... i ... .....i ,.i . 1.....1 1 1 , ,. i,., i, 1 ,,sliinns. tncludlng new editions of. the price of gasoline the services of n
had been enijiloyeil by Mr. Well to ascer-1 i,, arrest him on it liiaige of plotting books and articles and rights therein, night and day man and III,, expense of
tain certain facts In connection with the l0 blow up the Welland Canal. Icopyrlghls. moving picture and dramatic inalnleniiin e. lie was paying about four
Von Igel straightened up and then
with one leap leachi'd the big safe In
case
William S. lluller. counsel for Hid
dinger, exvlalneil tho situation jeslerilay bis room bearing the Imperial German
from Ills Stan, Ipolnt. Government seal, lie banged It shut and
gave 'tln knob of the combination a
Mr. Well Is counsel for the Mump
facturerw Light and Heat Comixiny,
which supplies natural n In Went Vir
ginia," he said. 'The company at
tempted to raise lis prices from 20 cents
a thousand feet to 17 cents nnd the Pub
lic Hervlce Commission of West Virginia
refused to ajnirovc. Blddlngor wss hired
CoMliaued on Ltut Page.
Continued on Third JPaytN
whirl, lie was not certain, however,
that he hail locked the safe and as linker
seized his bunds he bent back ami tried
to hurl Haker aside, At that Instant Von
Skal, entcilng the mom and sensing the
situation, leaped at linker, Hut Under
bill grabbed him and for several mlntrtes
Continued on Fifth Page,
rights, diaries, biographies, &c, and that
ho receive by way of compensation 10
Kr cent, of the net uniount thus realized
for my estate."
The Franklin Trust Company of
Hrooklyn la made executor anil tru4ec.
Onl Governor Can Call Out Mllltln
Ai.iiani. April 19 (Wednesday. 2 A.
M,), The Assembly passed this morn
ing a bill of Assemblyman Lynch giving
the Governor alone the right to call out
th mlllUs,
times the usual PIlis' foi tl
MOVIE CENSOR BILL PASSES.
tsarmhly Voles Measure. 7 In H7.
Mtrr lllller Flalil.
At.iiANV. April 19. The Assembly by
a vole of R" to 37 passed the Crlstman
Wheeler bill Ibis morning providing for
a Stale board of motion picture censors.
Tho board is to be under the direction
of the Htate Board of Kegents,
tluit have occurred since tin. sinking
ol the Lusit.ltiln. Ho Will iite spicule
inscs. including! the .mack on lln
Chnnnol packet Siix.ix. to hIiuvv how
Giiitmny'T pledges to t'hc I'tuttsl Stales
have been violated
I'lliler these circilllistatices the l'res.
dent will iiilorm 1'iiiigtc.ss ln bus iiono
nil he can do tlitmigli die channels nf
diplomacy
Count von HcnistoilT had n ten lulu
uto cnnfcreni c with SoiTetury LntiHlnsT
Ills lifteninon 1111(1 slated sqiccilically
nftcr the I'otifcrciifo Hint ho and tho
Secretary wire to talk mnttcrtj over
"In a few il.iys" Thin wiih taken as
nn Indication that nil liiqio has not yet
born abandoned by the Ambassador
for an eleventh hour adjustment of tho
difficult)'.
Tho German Ambassador did not
look sjrorriod After the oonferenco. Ho
f.
