~ ' ' 9
JU
i
Abbeville Press and Banner f
$1.50 ABBEVILLE, S. C., WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 1916. established
a year. ' 1844
? ' ?
M'CORMICK COUNTY
PASSES COURT IES1
LEGALITY OF ITS ERECTION IS
SUSTAINED AT EN BANC
SESSION.
Columbia, S. C., April 13.?The
election providing for the establishment
of McCormick County was declared
yesterday by an en banc session
of the supreme court to have
been legally held. There are now 45
couniies in South Carolina, the new
unit having been recognized by an
act of the legislature. The decision
by the court means that all constitutional
requirements have been met
for the creation of the new county.
The en banc session of the supreme
court was attended yesterday by a
large number of advocates of the
new county. The new unit will be
made up from parts of Edgefield, Abbeville
and Greenwood counties.
The new county movement has
been carried after a fight extending
over a period of 20 years. Citizens
of the new county are making arrangements
for a celebration at McCormick
today. Yesterday they extended
an invitation to Gov. Manning
to attend the celebration. The governor
was forced to decline because
of other engagements.
The election was held last year.
An appeal was taken to the State
board of canvassers and the election
was declared to have been legally
held. Then the case was carried on
to the supreme court. After hearing
the arguments and giving the
matter much consideration the five
justices of the supreme court failed
to agree and the circuit judges o 1
the State were called to their assistance.
The majority opinion was written
by Associate Justice Hydrick and
was concurred in by Associate Justice
Fraser and Circuit Judges
Prince, Shipp, Sease, Rice, Bowman,
liauldin, Smith and Peurifoy. The
dissenting opinion was written by
Chief Justice Gary and concurred in
. by Judge DeVore. A separate dissenting
opinion was written by Associate
Justice Watts and concurred in
by Associate Justice Gage and Circuit
Judge Wilson and Frank B.
Gary. Another dissenting opinion
was written by Judge Ernest Moore.
The McCormick county advocates
were represented yesterday at the
hearine by R. H. Welch of the Co
lurabia bar. William N. Graydon
and J. B. Park represented the petitioners.
The case was that of T. A. Robinson
and others against R. M. McCown
and other members of the
State board of canvassers.
In 1905 an election was held and
carried by a majority of four to one
in favor of McCormick county, but
the opponents won out in the courts
because the required area was lacking.
At another election in 1914 the
new county agitators won by a vote
of six to one, but for the second time
it was set aside by the courts. The
last in 1915 won out by a big majority.
McCormick, the county seat of the
new county, is located on the Charleston
& Western Carolina railway,
43 miles above Augusta and 25 miles
from Abbeville, Greenwood and
THREE DESTRUCTIVE FIRES.
Augusta, Ga., April 14.?Fire of
unknown origin in a warehouse on
that part of "cotton row" which escaped
the five million dollar conflagration
March 22, destroyed nearly
live hundred bales of cotton here tonight.
The flames threatened to
spread to the Broad street business
blocks that escaped before.
The loss tonight is estimated al
twenty-^ight thousand dollars. The
entire fire department was called be/\
k1n**A woe rtAnfrftllorl
1VIC UlU Uia^c nao vv/uuvtivui
$200,000 Loss in Fire That Destroyed
Lumber Plant at Jacksonville.
Jacksonville, Fla., April 14.?
Sparks from a turpentine retort
started a fire which consumed the
lumber mill of the Gress Manufacturing
company, here today. The
loss is two hundred thousand dollars.
Sixteen Houses Go Up in Flagies at
Woodside Mill Near Greenville.
Greenville, April 14.? The worst
fire that Woodside mill has ever
known, began at 20 minutes past 11
o'clock today, near the west end oi
fifth street and swept up each side
of the street burning sixteen houses
in the short time of one hour and ten
minutes. The houses were fully covered
by insurance, carried by the mil]
company, though it is reliably reported
that practically no insurance was
earned on the household goods. Nc
personal injuries are reported as a
result of the fire.
The fire-swept path was about a
hundred yards from the mill building
and as the wind was blowing in opposite
direction this structure did not
appear to be in imminent danger,
The houses destroyed were frame
structures, fifteen of them being foui
room houses and one a six room
house.
Most of the houses were each occupied
by two families and these people
are homeless this afternoon,
though the mill management immediately
began steps to provide them
with temporary homes until permanent
arrangements can be made.
7 Lili
4
maaa*?aaaaaaa<
WAS BODY OF VILLA
: TAKENFROMGRAVE?
; DID CARLOS CARRANZA FIND
VILLA DEAD AND BURIED?
REPORT SAYS SO.
i Mexico City, April 16.?Villa's
. body has been dug up of a two weeks/
i old grave by Carlos Carranza, nei
phew of Gen. Carranza, the first
! chief of the constitutionalists, and is
i now being brought by him and an
escort of soldiers to the city of Chihuahua.
i This information was contained in
. a telegram received by the war de,
partment late this afternoon,
t According to dispatches thus far
I received Villa's death was due to the
amputation of one of his legs made
necessary by wounds received in the
fighting near Guerrero in the State of
Chihuahua. After being desperately
, wounded he was carried by his followers
to the town of Temosachic,
1 where the amputation was performed
by a village doctor.
| As soon as the bandit chief could
be moved he was carried south to the
| town of Cusihuirachic, 39 miles dis1
tant. Here, according to the story,
' he lingered for a few davs before
. death.0"
. The identity of the wounded had
! been kept secret from the villagers
and he was buried at night so as to
attract as little attention as possible.
In the escort that carried the wound1
ed chieftain from Temosachic to
Cusihuirachic was a colonel who later
. was surrounded by constitutional
; forces and surrendered himself and
[ his command. He asked for amnesty
.! and promised to lead the constitu,
'tionalists to the grave of Villa.
Young Carranza and an escort were
detailed to accompany him and a
| UVUjr wao u U5 Mjr UAAU uiiu^ V.M0
t to a telegram, was identified as that
of Pancho Villa.
; The body, it is announced, will be
publicly exhibited at Chihuahua City.
Gen. Obregon, minister of war,
: when asked by the Associated Press
> regarding the report of the bandit's
; death, said:
1 "I can not yet confirm the report
of Villa's death. Late this afterl
noon the war department received a
telegram from Gen. Gavira saying
s that Villa's body had been recovered.
> "Later information that the body
khad been disinterred through information
furnished by a Villista colonel
t'was received. I have telegraphed
: for information that will leave no
! doubt regarding the report. At pres:
j ent I do not care to express an opin.
lion as to its truth or falsity."
DIED ON TRAIN.
It was learned here this afternoon
that a citizen of Calhoun Falls, nam,
ed Weinraub, returning home from
j Augusta, died on the C. & W. C. pasi;
senger train this afternoon just be
fore the train reached McCorraick.?
Greenwood Journal, April 14.
ies for the Hoi1
'
O EARTH, upon thy breas
By the soft winds cares
Bring all thy blossoms:
From dusky wood and dell
Sweet herb and lily bell
To ornament his holy Easter
COUNTY TRACK
TO BE HELD S.
Athletic Part Field Day P
Carried Out Here Satun
Urged to Send Repre
The Athletic part of the County,
which had to be postponed on aceoun
April 7th, is to be carried out on Satu
school in the county may enter. It will
school that they enter two thirds of t]
nounced last wreek.
Prizes have been offered by the n
each being equal in value to $1.00.
races have been cut out and also the a
other events of the program will be ca
sion fee of 25c. and 15c. will be char^
held at .2 o'clock at the Fair Grounds
enter as many events as he wishes.
A card announcing this meet has 1
er of the county and it is hoped that
the county will send representatives.
A LUCKY ESCAPE. TAKING
Dote Smith came down street Sat- Messrs,
urday afternoon to receive the con- "av? inv<
gratulations of his friends on his es- ?an" carj
cape from the Asylum. hearts of
girls. i
A. M. St(
DR. NEUFFER PRESIDENT. the Overl
Dr. and Mrs. G. A. Neuffer left LE
Monday for Charleston, where they
go to attend the meeting of the State Dr. W.
Medical Association. While in Char- leaving
leston they will be the guests of Mr. Greenwot
and Mrs. Hayne Wannamaker. As their honr
President of the Association, Dr. Cord can:
Neuffer will have many pleasant at- from Con
tentions shown him. nstry nei
cellent d<
BACK IN HIS OLD HOME. ou^
her neigh
Capt. E. M. Penney has moved with regr
back to Abbeville and is at work on
the Seaboard Road. He has lived G
for several years at Lancaster and
stood well with the people of that Mrs. Vr
city and with the managers of the Ruth and
road. His friends are glad to have ey, N. C,
him and his interesting family come on the G
back home. the Carej
Stevens a
uate and
THE COMING PRESIDENTS. "0 teke p
sion.
Pompadour hair is coming back in . <
style, that is among the school boys, in tneir s
from the first grade boys on up and interestec
the drug store men and the barbers ville was
are kept busy these days. There staff of t
has been a heavy run on pomade and Howie an
there is a regiment of sweet smell- Killingsw
ing boys around town just now. A tors,
young hero of ten years told us a
day or two ago that you "could make HE!
your hair stand up fine in a week's
time if you put pomade on it in the Mr. J.
day, and slept with an old stocking in the ci
tied around your head at night." legal mat
y Easter Day
W ^-/* J? 'W/yX- -MP'i^- ^
t,
s't,
forth in bright array, .' ^
' ' ?*/
Day. ,
meet CARRANZA
\turday m|
rogram Will Be de facto gc
lay?Schools mexico wani
. .. TROOPS W1
sentatwes ?
Washington, Api
quarters it was sta1
Field Day program ican troops will no
t of the bad weather ^s^ne jj'bdng d
rday, April 22lld. Any Carranza the purs
not be required of each b.andits will b? pu*
lie contests as was an- vlgor* . .
Washington, Api
lerchants of Abbeville
The two fifty yard sentation to Secrel
Lpple race. All the for the withdraw
rried out. An admis- note raSs'
jed. The meet will be situation already :
5. Any contestant may the outcome of w
J reticent to predict
gone over the com
Deen sent to each teach- fully and consider
most of the schools of United States will
To End N
= The note was se
THE OVERLAND ROUTE.
. Henry and Sam Carlisle
isted in a handsome Over- nf frnini ]
'man? o'f'olfr TretWounl occupation of the
hey purchased the car from ?.??pi
ane the talkative a^ent for Par^y having been
and at this nlace Emphasis is laid
ana at tms place. the Amencan eXp6)
AVING ABBEVILLE. taken under a misi
though acting in g
E. McCord and family are claration is made
Abbeville this week for States has interpre
>d, where they will make the defacto gov
iv. n> M?_line a definite agree
ItJ III U1C 1UVU1C. JUX AUV- ^
ie to Abbeville a year ago two nations. But
iway and has practiced Den- the defacto govern
e since then. He is an ex- expedition should b
jntist and an affable man until terms and cc
?eople regret that he is leav- to an agreement w
rs. McCord is popular with Want* Diacuaai
bors and they give her up The note declarc
et. in consequence of i
. having been reache
OING TO CAREY. of the treaty to ref
cal passage of tro
r. G. Stevens and Misses "the Mexican gove
Victoria Howie are at Car- convenient to susp<
this week in attendance ent all discussion c
ommencement exercises of this particular, or
r school. Messrs. Rodney circumstances that
nd Sanford Howie will grad- sent by the United
their people have gone up ment to pursue Vill
iart in the interesting occa- dation in virtue of
of a previous agre<
young men have done well definite."
ichool and their friends are What was intend
I in their success. Abbe- March 10, it is po
well represented on the submit a proposal
" ~ * " 1- * -1- XL. J?
he School Journal, Messrs. wmcn me iuixcs
d Stevens and Miss Lillian other country co
ortn being among the edi- cross the dividing ]
bandits if unfortun
be repeated along
HE FROM DONALDS. like those committe
The note, adds ho
H. Brock, of Donalds, was beginnig the Mex
ty Monday looking after
ters. (Continued <
STRICT GUARD KEPT
nwcDimnn/iAM irnrn
UVLI\ IIUIYIHI1 LLrtn
ISOLATED FROM HUMANITY EXCEPT
FOR HER HUSBAND WHO
IS WAITING UPON HER. 'k
Columbia, April 14.?Special: Confined
in a house near McCormick, isolated
from humanity except for her \
husband, and kept under shotgun
guard, is a negro woman leper. She
is kept in one room of the house and
in the adjoining room is her husband*
who is waiting on her. The county
officials furnish the leper and her
husband with supplies, and there she
? . is in lonely confinement, as completely
isolated as if she were on one of
fthe islands of the South Sea.
s The negro woman was sent from
a Abbeville County to the State Hoe- . ^
1 pital for the Insane, supposedly
M because she was insane. When she
arrived at the State Hospital Super%
intendent Williams, always careful,
noticed the peculiarity of the skin
disease and had her isolated for ex- , c
amination. Several examinations and
tests were made, and finally the Hoe
utai authorities called in Dr. Lynch,
of the State Medical College staff,
-I who was doing some research work
; at the State Hospital, and after a
; most careful and painstaking exami ;
nation and investigation the woman
was pronounced a leper. Immediately
the officials of the State Hospital
I for the Insane, notified the board of '
j health that the negro woman was not
I insane, but was suffering from lepro
sy, and that they could not keep her,
! as she was not insane. s.
i Could Not Go On Tjjjwm N
The question then r~7fjTJ?
to do with the negro wojmuL'
ing from a fully develo^W
leprosy. She could not be^MnuiaM
back to Abbeville on the
there is a special rule of the Styra
board of -health forbidding the txiuM*
portation on trains of people su4cr?
ing with leprosy. The Abbeville an.
thorities were consulted, and finally
it was determined to transport the
woman back to her home by automobile.
It is said that the supervisor
of Abbeville arranged for an auto|.nTr
mobile, and in this the woman was
Ml II L carried back through the country to
111 111 her home and there confined in an
Ill/IL isolated house, closely guarded day
. _ ^and night It is said her husband
llflll HO IF lives in the adjoining room to his
lirVV IWI It" w**e an(* wa^te on ^er, and that the
I fLf lUUUL guards place supplies for them at
convenient points, which is gotten by
the husband, who is caring entirely
for the wants of his wife.
)VERNMENT IN it js that the automobile in
rc AMFPirAW which the negro woman was taken /
from here to Abbeville County was
[THDRAWN. burned along with the clothes worn
by the men who took her back.
Abbeville County has been guard il
13.?In official ing the woman and furinshing the
ted that the Amer-! supplies, it is said, but now the burt
be withdrawn, at! den will be transferred to the newly
ind that while the formed county of McCormick, for it
iscussed with Gen. is said that the woman is confined in
uit of the Villa a house in that section and within
shed with renewed the bounds of the new county.
It was on the first of the present
month that the woman leper was reril
13.?Gen. Car- moved from the State Hospital to her
hich arrived at his home in McCormick County. The
{ today, for pre- news of this situation first reached
iary Lansing, asks the ears of this correspondent some
al of American days ago, but it was only to-day that
3- . the facts were confirmed sufficiently
a new issue in a justify publication. Dr. C. Fred
much complexed, Williams, superintendent of the State
hich officials are Hospital for the Insane, this mornuntil
they have jng admitted the fact that the negro
munication care-jwoman }ja(j been pronounced a leper
ed what reply the an j taken back by automobile to her
make. former home.
. It is said that the people of Abbeegotiations.
yjjjg an(j McCormick counties are
nt to Eliseo Arre- much concerned over the fact that a
nza representative leper is in their section, but every;h
instructions for body has manifested a reluctance to
etary Lansing "so talking about the case.
is fir a reciprocal| ?
,nd asking for dis- ILL-FATED AUGUSTA
territory occupied SUFFERS NEW FIRE
5 in view of Villa's
destroved." a 17 A
whkh^^ol'e out'atT^O bit
iition was under njgjjf, jn basement of the Har AmftlS
ni!" i rison building is now believed to be
&o+ TTni*t?/i under control and the total damage
ited the first note !3 es"n;atekd at "f0"1' 5100.000. and
ernment as effect- ?''?,d to be I""*1* covered b* In8ur"
>m#>nt between the. a.. a.v_ j;ns ii. ^
the "intention ofL ?! ,U1? v*
. ,, , the fire which began in a compartment
was that no . * 6" , y v F j
y~? ment of a basement barber shop and
Editions relative WJSJ!?. about half w?? th^-gh
raro HpfinpH ithe building, the fire fighters were
?? c?.n<.njlj heavily handicapped in finding the
?s therefore that exact location of the flames. They
10 final agreement succeeded, however, in keeping the
>d as to the terms ifire from "aching elevator shafts
mlate the recipro-iand spreading above the first floor of
ods over the line the building.
rmyionf init t^e 700 block on Broad street
>nH for the ores the Harrison building are locator
negotiations in ed of the principal retail housfounded
on the es ?f the. thes% concerns, tocether
with the nrofessional people
tne expedition - , , . r
States govern- iwho were recently burned out in the
la is without foun-lfire which destroyed more than 30
tho nnn-p*i?st<?nrp 'blocks and since located in the Hariment
formil and J*50" buildi"S> were busy for seTeral
: hours making ready to move what
ed by the note of couM*be handled from the district
inted out, was to ' Early this morning one small house
"by means of on outskirts of the city was comof
one and the Pletely destroyed and another badly
uld reciDrocallv damaged, it is said, before the fireline
in pursuit of men could control the blaze.
"the border^ acts E BOOK CLUB.
;d in Columbus."
1 -Oftftl,
wever: "f rom tnej me rcguiai meeting ?
ican government Club will be held at the home of
Mrs. E. R. Thomson this morning at;
jn page 7.) eleven o'clock. t
- ' . 1. - I _ . J Yturf&ii
