V
. 1 .
VOL. 52 NO. 94
THE FARMER: APRIL 19, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
4
' MMiJS GEIM1MY9 UMPEISto WMIFMIE;
; -ttlllMTUM E 1US1E1 1Y CMUE f dD 1EMLM
i ' ' ' '. " .' . , - T '-y"' ' - - ; ' '
EEICS If.:.
3TEST0
. , . , ,
Slake Formal Complaint to
Allies Against pccupation
of Part of Island of Crete
As Port For Thejr Fleets.
Germans Reported I Across
Greek Frontier -f- Heavy
Fighting ' Continued in
, Crown Prince's Drive.
Athens. Greece, April" 19 The Greek
government !bas made a. formal protest
to the entente allies against the esta-b?
llshment of a. naval frase in Suda Bay,
Crete,
tJEEMANS CROSS BOKDEB.
" London. April 1 1 9 rA Renter d ess-
patch, from Salonikl says the.Ger
' mans .'cross the Greek frontier- on
Monday in the neighborhood of Ddr-
rla-ra and destroyed '. railway culverts,
apparently fearing an advance of the
allies. ; -.."'.'-.-,'-' ' .' ' '
' Paris, April 19 There was a spir
ited bombardment of positions south
of Haudremoftt Wood, on the Yerdun
front, east of the Meuse, last' night, the
war office 'report of this afternoon
says. No other important event oo
curred on any 'part of the front.
GERMANS PUSH ADVANCE
Berlin, April 19 The report of to
day from the war office says that the
' et one quarry south of : Haudremont
. Farm in the Verdun district east oi
the Meuse has been captured by Ger
man troops, thus completing -She suc
cess of the previous day. . ",
f , - i- - v -.: .... . -
TTETCTKAIj ship is sunk.
' London, April 19 A Lloyds de
spatch from Lisbon, says the Norwe
gian steamship Terje Viken sank on
Monday In Cajcae Bay. 15 miles west
of Lisbon, after three explosions on
oard the vessel. r The' crew was
- saved. - ' ' .."'"
The Terje Viken Wiled on March 1C
front Galveston for Lisbon. She was
of 3,579 tons, was Ibuilt in Newcastle
in 1911 and owned In Tonsberg. .
LilLlTl A CALLED
OUT TO PROTECT
MUNITIONS. SHOP
Martial Law Follows Riots
r By Strikers at Hastings-
On-Hudson.
, Hasting-s-on-HudsonrT. "S"., April 19
Martial law was declared In efTeot
within the limits of Hastings village
and state troops were called upon for
duty today after rioting had assumed
serious proportions mnong etrikers of
the National Conduit & Cable Co.
A mob of 700" men attacked the
company's plant wlh bullets and
Etones. ' Shots were fired by private
euu-ds. who were driven within fh a
S
factory gates by the rioters. was officially announced by David E.
The trustees of the village voted toFi"-3' b-1 chairman today. Mr.
place the situation in the hands ofiCummlns at present is in Asheville,
Sheriff. Weisendanger. who at once N- G... on a vacation He will be in
summoned to duty the National I Washington on April 25 to argue in
7,irHmr. whn hi.ra.ti nMir,r . i behalf of Former Congressman Jere-
armories at White Plains, Mt. Vernon,
and Flushing. Sheriff Weisendanger
suspended the sale of intoxicants and
closed all saloons, and ordered on
duty the deputies withdrawn last night
after the plant closed down , v ,
After stoning the shops, the strikers
and their sympathizers Jostled train
commuters in the street and then
drew revolvers and fired into the air
and at the plant. No ' one was in
jured during this attack.
- A Catholic Sister, who today entered
a. church to fill the lamps before the
altar, found a deputy sheriff who, it
was reported, was shot yesterday andl
took refuge In the edince.
President Goodwin explained .that
the company, which manufactures
munitions of war, had. demanded pro
tection fromthe authorities for its $2,
' 000,000 plant and there are only six
village officers. There are 3,000 em-
ployed at the plant and the strikers
are asking shorter hours and more
Pay. '
. All the 12-inch guns on the battle
"'ehlp Michigan have been declared de
fective and ordered -removed.
THE WEATHER
'Fair tonight followed by increasing
cloudiness Tbursday; Tiring tempera
tares. Fresh west winds dlminlsb-
JOSEPH GEDDIS
AGAIN ESCAPES
i 1 LAW'S CLUTCH
Brockton Youth, Wanted
- For Breach of Promise,
I Qnce M'
CAUGHTVNJNE TIMES,
' STILL FOOLS POLICE
Bridgeport Authorities Hold
Warrant and Extradition
Papers.
Joseph Geddis of Barockton. has
again escaped the police and for the
j ninth time in the .last two years ' he
has gained freedom after Being taKen
into custody.
' Geddis is wanted by the police of
Brockton for a. breach of promise. lie
was to marry a pretty young miss of
that plade, wiho is the daughter of a
prominent shoe manufacturer. ; Geddis
disappeared the ''day before the date
set for the wedding, two years ago.
lie was later arrested in Brockton
but jumped a bond. He was -twice ar
rested in Boston and again on each
instance he skipped the bond. He was
captured later, in- Biddeford, Me., and.
while awaiting extradition , papers he
escaped while released "upon his own
recognizance. - ;
Police of Brockton say that the niece
of the shoe manufacturer is infatuated
with 'Geddis but Hh"t he is a. victim of
the wanderlust and refuses to remain
In the one i place very long. . -'
Two months ago Geddis came to this
city. and prWud -employment -at the
Remington Arms & Ammunition Oo.
He was told the. police were after him
and 'he resigned his Job. .- He went to
work at the Bollard Machine Tool Co.
He learned that the police were again
on his trail and he gave up the Job
and returned to a good - paying posi
tion as grinder at tthe Arms plant. -.
The police didn't know he returned
to' the' Arms plant. They: were told
that he frequented pool rooms in the
center of the' city and a week ago
Detectives James Dooiesr and- James
Bray apprehended Geddis in Connie
Lewis' billiard academy in Fairfield
avenue. .
, Geddis was "nailed before Judge
Frank L. Wilder in city fcourt. -He
procured Judge Carl Foster as counsel
and that former court official proved
to the satisfaction of the court that
the police authorities had no right to
hold Geddis without a warrant. Ged
dis was released upon his own recog
nisance and in the meantime the war
rant was procured from the Brockton
police authorities as well extradition
papers from the governor : of Massa
chusetts. .' ' " -, "
Geddis was to appear in city court
today J at which time he was to be
turned over to the police of Brockton,
who had sent an officer after him.
Geddis failed to appear and Judge
Wilder polled the case. Friends of
Geddis say, that he has gone to the
West but the police are of the opinion
that he is still in this city and efforts
will be- made tp locate Jtiim. ' s
Cummings To Give
' ' Keynote ' ' Address
Before Democrats
New Haven, April 19 The selection
of National Committeeman Homer S.
Cummings, of Stamford, as temporary
chairman of the . Democratic state
convention -in this city next month.
miiUl JUHW V ail, 111 1-1 1 V-l ,11 LCt.
over
the seat of Congressman . E. J. Hill,
of Norwalk, and then.-he will ' come
here to arrange details;
Delay in making a definite an
nouncement of the temporary chair
man was due to the fact that State
; Chairman Fitzgerald was in the south
for several weeks and upon his re
turn to take up political activities he
found that Mr, 'Cummings was going
south requiring correspondence to
prepare for convention announce
ments. Remodel Gilman
Mansion At Black
Rock For Hotel
Work of reconstructing the old Oil
man Manor on Ash Creek into a first
class hotel with 100 rooms, each hav
ing private baths and other conven
iences, has begun. The property which
was recently purchased - by Simon
LaJfe is not to be turned over to fac
tory purposes ' as was considered.
Befitting and renovating of the
building Is" being done from private
plans in the hands of contractor Fan
ning, 164 DeForest avenue.
It is expected that the hotel will "be
ready for occupancy before June 1
and probably will cater to wealthy
patrons. The grounds will be hand
somely treated by a, landscape artist.
LENA, ANCIENT
ELEPHANT, PUT
- bp" ! ' r p"
U UhAIH Hbnt
1
Strickei With Paralysis of
Leg, Pachyderm is Strang
led By Keepers.
TWENTY MEN FORM
PARTY OF EXECUTION
Companion of Famous Jum
bo, Animal Has Traveled
Millions of Miles.
Lena, herd-ma"te"of the famous
"Jumbo" and for nearly 60 years, an
' -
asset of the circusses of which the late
P..T. BarniAn controlled, is dead. The
decree of execution pronounced by
Alf T. Ringling after the ,aged beast
had showed symptoms of decrepitude
was carried into effect at the winter
quarters, this morning under direction
of Chief Elephant Trainer Harry
Mooney and other circusmen who
came from New York to view the
strange sigh. .
Nearly 20 men were required to per
form the. act and to control Albert,
the biggest elephant ' in the Barnum
& -Bailey; show: - Albert refused to be
moved ' from T the elephant quarters
while Lena was there - and witnessed
the killing with a complacency which
seemed to denote "Satisfaction with
the 'decree, of death' and its consum
mation. N
" Lena, suffering from- paralysis of
the -forward right leg is believed by
attendants to have been fully cogniz
ant of sher impending doom for it
was observed that she took particular
note of- -the stake driving operations
during the preliminaries and trum-
peitea snrury as sne saw the ropes and
other equipment being laid.. When' led
to the training ring in the big shed,
while the ropes were being adjusted,
she knelt without command. As the
noose was being adjusted the small
eyes of the huge beast were ' roving
about and the trunk gingerly curled
about feeling tha inch hemp rope.
A pathetic sight that almost brought
tears to those engaged in, the death
act was tl?'e caressing stroke of the
big proboscis as it gently wound itself
about Mooney as if in -a last act of
farewell. As the big ropes tightened
in their strangling grasp there .was not
a round of rage as" is usual, but little
helpless cries like those from a babe
In arms, seared to the very hearts. of
the rough and ready men .who were
jeopardizing their own lives in the
work of killing- an animal they loved.
The history of Lena, interesting, in
its detail, penetrates beyond the recol
lection of any man today. The mem
ory of the oldest attendant at the clr-
circus grounds can reach back only
thirty years and Lena was an aged.
animal tlven. . It is definitely known
that she arrived in this1 country
about 60 years ago, having been
brought from Asia for show purposes.
It is believed she has -travelled more
than any living human being or ani- j
mal, with, a mileage of more than
one million miles to her credit. ' Dur
ing the last 30 years she has travel-?
led -an equal number of thousands of
miles annually1 on railroad trains and
boats, having twice, journed to Eu
rope and returned."
On the last trip of the Barnum cir
cus to iiurope sne 19 said to nave
met in tlamburg an elephant she had
probably known in earlier years of
captivity. Her jubilation 'at the meet
ing was remarkable. ,
Lena, being an Asiatic, elephant,
was always assigned to what in show
paAahce is known as the "Number 2
herd." ' During the. life' . of Jumbo
here, however, a departure had to
be made from the rule as both
GeoFge Arkenatall, Jumbo's first
keeper and ' "Seotty", the trainer,
found that there was a close bond of
friendship that continually made
trouble for the keepers when - they
were separated. Though there was a
discrepancy of nearly two tons in the i eral Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff of
weight of the two beasts and Lena be- tne army, -win go to San Antonio, Tex.,
side Jumbo looked like a pygmy, the ytonight, by trder of Secretary Baker,
friendly feeling continued until the.'j oraer to get accurate information
sudden death of Jumbo in Canada, the situation on the border and
Lena Is said to ttrave tried continually
for many weeks after the parting.
Tradition points to the fact that
Lena was probably born in the interior
of Asia, not having the characteris
tics of either the Indian or African
pachyderms." She was abnormally
small but was considered in the early
days of showdom to be among the
better class of display beasts. She
was docile to a fault, learnirfg quickly
and remembering well. She was quick
to apprehend Indignity towards, any
of thir elephants with which she was
associated. . ' J . .
During the fire at winter quarters
Btmi years ago when a lion was loose
in the streets of Bridgeport, she was
known to have gone trumpeting ahead
of the carnivorous animal for some
distance down the street until tlTe lion
leaped a fence. She returned and
made several efforts to keep the ele
phant herd from plunging into the
waters of the Sound, seemingly aware
of the danger that . resulted in the
death of one animal by drowning
(Continued on Page 2.)
mm
.jj VfTTT
llilj
TEXT OF PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS
The text 6f the President's
Congress, this afternoon, follows:
Gentlemen of-the Congress
"A situation has arisen in the ror
eign relations of the country of which
it is my plain duty to inform you very
frankly. -
""It-will be recalled that in Febru
ary, 1815, the Imperial German gov
ernment aifnounced its intention to
treat the waters surrounding Great
... - , -3 .!V, .
Britain and Ireland as embraced with
in the seat of war and to destroy all
merchant ships owned by its enemies
that mightXbe found within any part
of that portion of the high seas and
that it warned all vessels, of neutral
as well as' of belligerent ownership,
to keep out of the waters it had thus
prescribed or ee enter them at their
peril. i
"The' government of the United
States earnestly protested. It took
the position that such a - policy could
not be pursued without the practical
certainty of gross and palpable . vio
lations of the law of nations, particu
larly of submarine eraft were to be
used as Its instruments, in asmuch as
the rules prescribed by that law
rules founded" on principles of hu
manity and established for the protec
tion of' the lives of non-combatants at
Sea could not in the nature of the
case be observed by such vessels. It
based its protest on the ground that
persons of neutral nationality and vessels-
of neutral ownership would be
exposed to extreme and intolerable
risks, and that no right to close any
part of the high seas against their
use or to expose them to such risks
could lawfully be asserted jby any be
lligerent government.
"The law of nations in these mat
ters, upon which the government of
the United States based its protest. Is
not of recent origin or founded upon
merely arbitrary principles set up by '
LAMSIMG 61VES 6ER.MM
NVOY OPPORTUNITY TO
DISCUSS U-BOAT ISSUES
Washington, " April 19. Secretary
Lansing today informed Count Von
Bernstorff, he German ambassador,
that ihe was ready to discuss the sub
marine question with him and a con
ference- probably will be arranged for
tomorrow. .Yesterday Secretary. Lan
sing informed him he could not dis
cuss itho subject.
Count Von .Bernstorff talked, with
Secretary TTufcing- at 11:30 o'clock this
morning. The engagement was maae
at the ambassador's reqniest.
It was revealed -that the ambassador
went to the state department not to
Washington. April 19. Major Gen-
in jiexico.
Secretary Baker Issued this state
ment: -
"General Bcott leaves for San An
tonio this evening at 6:15 at my re
quest. He will spend, several days
with - General Funston and return.
This trip is made solely for the pur
pose of getting as accurate informa
tion as possible for the use of the de
partment. General Funston remains
in the full -charge of the affairs of his
department, including the expedition
into Mexico. He has the full confl
denec of the department and his dis
positions have the department's full
approval."
Secretary Baker would not discuss
General Scott's mission beyond his for
mal statement. It was assumed, how
ever, that his report after conference
with General Funston will go far to
ward determining tlhe course to be
pursued in Mexico. It is expected
that General Funston has been urging
the department that he be permitted
to shift his border base in order to
shorten his lines of. communication.
wL 'SO
TO MEI
address to the joint session of
convention. It is bsised, on the con
trary, upon manifest and imperative
principles of humanity and has long
been established with the approval of
and by the assent of all civilized na
tions ,,!.''
"Notwithstanding the earnest . pro
test of our government, the Imperial
German government at once proceed
ed to carry out the policy it had an-
nounced. It expressed . the hope that
the dangers involved, at. any rate the
dangers to neutral vessels, would be
reduced to a minimum by the instruc
tions which It had issued its sub
marine commanders and assured the
government -of the United States that
it would take every possible precau
tion both to respect the rights of neu
trals and to safeguard the lives of
non-combatants.
"What has actually happened in the
year .which has since elapsed has
shown1, that those hopes were not justi
fied, those assurances insusceptible of
being fulfilled. In pursuance of the
policy of submarine warfare against
the commerra 'of its advisaries, thus
announced and entered upon by the
Imperial German, government, in spite
of the protest of this g ernment, the
commanders of German Smdersea ves
sels have attacked - merchant ships
with greater and greater activity, not
only upon the high seas but wherever
they could encounter them, Jn a way
that has grown more and . more ruth
less, more and mere Indiscriminate as
ihe months go by, less and less ob
servant of restraints of any kind, and
have delivered their attacks without
compunction against vessels of any
nationality and lound upon, every sort!
of errand.
"Vessels of neutral ownership, even
vessels of neutral ownership bound
' (Continued on Page 2.)
discuss the submarine situation ' hut
to make further formal demand for
the return of papers which, depart-,
ment of-iustice aerents seized from
"1 Wolf Von Igel, private secretary to
Captain Von Papon, the withdrawn
military attache, in New York yester
day. '
' The department of justice has prac
tically decided to hold Von Igel unless
the state department specifically de
mands his release, on the ground that
the crime with -which he is charged
was committed a year- before he be
came a diplomatic agent.
STILL
The request was before the cabinet
yesterday. - '
Decision of the Washington govern
ment on the question as to whether
the American forces hunting Villa 1
should be recalled or reinforced f or
further operations today awaited the
receipt of further reports from Ameri
can officers in ftxexico. General Funs
ton already has submitted a lengthy
report on the situation and additional
advices from him are momentarily ex
pected. Meanwhile, indications are that the
chase for Villa is at a standstill.
The general belief here is that the
German situation would have some
bearing upon the Impending decision.
Should a break in diplomatic relations
OGcur, it was pointed out . that the
troops now in Mexico would be need
ed at home, as military prudence
would require that steps bfe taken to
prepare for eventualities in Europe.
It was suggested that inasmuch as
the , main purpose of the expedition,
the protection of the border, has been
accomplished, an Agreement for with
drawal might be reached with Car
ranza on the basis that if Villa or his
bandits again head northward Ameri
can troops would again cross tne in
ternational line. ,
10 IT IS ORDERED
IIIGM3 "LirlE; VILLA
. !
AccumulatiDn of Facts, Says President, Shows
That Wanton Sinking of Non-Combatant Ves
sels, Has Increased, Despite Berlin's Promises
to the Contrary Diplomatic Relations Will
Be Severed Unless Immediate Announcement'
v of Abandonment of Illegal Warfare is Made
at Berlin Note Already in Berlin is Belief . ,
Washington, April 19
rVTilOO 1-1 nnnmkl .3 '4 -t 4 t-
Vo aoociuuiCU 111 IUJ.J-LL seSSlUXl DtiUVLLy aiteiVJ. O CiOCK Tlll
afternoon, lie has given Germany irrevocable notification
that the United States will break tff diplomatic relations
i1 her iUegal submarine campaign is continued.
A note, America's last word, practically an ultimatum
p.nd demanding an immediate reply, presumably -was in
the Berlin foreign office as the President was speaking.
It was dispatched last night in accordance with the
President's plan to' have it before the German govern
ment at the same moment he was addressing the American
ongress. ' r
x No Action Asked, of Congress.
The President asked no action whatever of Congress.
He simply informed it of the accummulation of fact prov
ing that Germany 's assurances- to the United States are
being violated; thao tiie submarine campaign, despite, the
earnest, protests of theUnited States is being conducted
with renewed vigor in contravention of all the laws of na
tions and humanity and that he means to sever relations
unless it is brought within the law. , ,.
The diplomatic history of the world shows that such
a course is almost certain to be followed by war. ' x
The President's note and his address to Congress are
final. -" They mark the end of diplomatic, exchanges. A
continuance of the longstanding friendly , relations,, the
President made clear, depends alone upen Germany's
conduct. v 1 - .
The text of the note to Germany will be given out by
the state department probably some time tomorrow morn
ing. -. ' . -
HARTFORD FIRM
DEMANDS MONEY
FROM CROSSLEY
Real Estate Man Telephones
Farmer He's Not Trying
to Escape Sheriff.
J. Harry Crossley, real estate . broker,
told The Farmer over , tne long ais
tance "telephone from New York, this
afternoon, that , he is not remamms
outside of the Jurisdiction of Conneot-
, . i i .a in, lamtl nunAra
1-CUl. W TL"1 i. . o
papers on iTifm. .
CrossleyVs absence rrom tne ciry xias
been the object of much conjecture.
Today it was' learned that Deputy
Sheriff Thomas J. Cunningham has
two writs, of a.ttachr"nt for service
upon Crossley, drawn ' by counsel for
Harvey & Lewis, of Hartford, wio
conduct a chain of optical stores in
New England. These suits grow out
of the recent purchase, by the Hart-
ford firm, of the Pfyt 1,148 I lata
Bt-roct, " ----- -
occupied by David Cotter, proprietor
of "a. saloon and restaurant business.
Orossley's whereabouts have Deen,
unknown, to many who have been in
timately associated with him, for
several month. In explanation, of
' this, Mr. Crossley , said, over the tel-
ephone, that (he has been much occu
pied, in New York city, for many
weeKS, in a Trig deal that occupied,
almost all his time, and for that rea
son he had beeri unable , to get to
Bridgeport as often as he wished. He
said, however, that he expected to be
In Bridgeport tomorrow evening, leav
ing New York city about 3 o'clock.
He deplored the prospect of publica
tion of anything in connection with
the issuance of legaF papers, declaring
that it might ,prove ruinous to his lat
est enterprise.
Attorney John S. Pullman, former
judge of the city court, is counsel tor
the Hartford firm. Attorney -Edward
K. Nicholson, also a former city court
judge, is counsel for Crossley, accord
ing to his statement over the tele
phone. At his offices, this afternoon,
it was said that he had gone to New
York city.
According to well informed real es
tate men, Crossley was employed to
purchase the Main street property, and
given $25,000 with which to conduct
' (Continued on Page 2.)
1
President-" Wilsoea told Con-
"1 .XT Pj "I 1 1
. I . -
. The President arrived ait the-capitel
shortly Ibefore J o'clock , and in the
President's room awaited the con
vening of the Joint session of Con
gress. - The galleries were- packed to -suffocation
long 'before 1 o'clock and hun
dreds were nnae to gain admit
tance. News that the President was
to lay the submarine question before
Congress came as a big surprise last
niglht. Spectators came early to the
capitol In the hope of -getting seats.
Representatives of all the allied
countries filled the diplomatic galler
ies of the House. Women ruled in the
public galleries, less than 20 r men
finding places in the ,6 00 seats. Stlrs.
Wilson was in the executive gallery. ;
In' the cabinet party were Secretaries
Lansing, Baker, Huston and Wilson,
Attorney-General Gregory and Postmaster-General
Burleson.
The Vice-President and Senators ar
frived at 12:50 and marched in double
file down the center aisle, members
of . the House rising and remaining
standing until they were seated. "
; While tlie eencntoxs were taking their
seats. President Wilson waited in
Speaker Clark's office, Just outside the
chamber. As the President entered
thechaimber rjust before . one o'clock,
sen afore, representatives, cabinet and.
gaiienes pose. An ouxDvirst ox ap
plause gave way s to loud cheering.
During this demonstration' the Pres-
, the vpt boed
idetn shook nanos witfh. the speaker
t t a-Bomblaea.
The ' President then began his ad
dress, speaking slowly and distinct
ly; His voice was heard,. throughout
the chamber. "j" "
- As the President began the review
of the German submarine campaign
there was no demonstration to inter
rupt his recital of the sacrifice of
American HveB. Not a sound was
heard above the President's voice as
he spoke the name Lusitania.
Every head ' bent forward as the
President indicated that he was a p
proaching the - announcement of, the
course he will pursue.
His declaration that Germany had
made it plain she intended to continue
Indiscriminate warfare in defiance of
International law and the protests of
the United States, was followed by the
statement that this determination had
left but one course open to the United
States. :
When he pronounced the words of
the 'ultimatum, declaring that unless
Germany should Immediately declare
and effect an abandonment of indis
criminate submarine warfare .this
government would have no choice but
to severe diplomatio relations, there
was still no demonstration, only a
tense silence, a reflection of the grav
ity of his words.
, (Continued on Pag 2
v.
