A
-4' iff
WEATHER
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop.
per for week ending
April 12, 27.25.
Sunday and Monday
generally fair: not
much change in tem
perature. Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
WJ02ijjk ....
Vol. 18, No. 279.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, APRIL 19,
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
A
I
1 &
r j
BREAK IH HOY
GRAVITY OF SITUATION
Reported Death of Bandit Francisco Villa Remains Unconfirmed On the Border
mm AMERICA SEEN
III PRESIDENT'S ACTION
Senate Passes Army Bill Providing 1 Administration Marks Time Waiting
For Standing Army of 250,000 Troops 1 Official Advices From the Interior)
m s sun
ii
DELEW ARE FOR WILSON
Wilson Arranges Joint Meeting Of Congress For 1 O'clock
Today. Will Flace Matter Squarely Before It Before He
Takes Final Step Which May Mean Breaking Oc Of Re
lations With The German Fatherland.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON, April 18. President Wilson will lay the submarine crisis
before Congress tomorrow. In the hall of the House of Representatives, at
one o'clock in the afternoon, with Congress seated before him in joint ses
sion, the President will speak the last words of the United States to Germany
in the grave situation which has kept the two nations on the brink of a break
for nearly a year.
Developments yet undisclosed and of the most solemn importance are
expected to follow quickly. An ultimatum to Germany and even the sever
ance of. diplomatic relations are two most likely eventualities.
At 10 o'clock tomorrow morning the President will receive at the White
House, Chairmen Stone and Flood, of the Congress committees dealing with
foreign affairs, and Senator Lodge and Representative Cooper, the ranking
Republican members. The oft repeated statement from the White House and
by the administration that before the breaking off of diplomatic relations
with Germany, the President would fully advise the heads of the foreign af
fairs committees, was recalled tonight, in connection, with the announce
ment of the meeting and it was everywhere regarded as the forerunner of a
development of the utmost gravity. "
Tonight all official Washington, fearing the worst, and hoping for the
best, is practically in ignorance of the details of the President's plans.
Soon after noon today, and just after the cabinet had departed, the Presi
dent summoned Secretary Tumulty. He Instructed him to go to the Capitol
at 4:30 o'clock, and not before, and arrange for a joint session of House and
Senate at 4 o'clock tomorrow afternoon. The President did not state his pur
pose to his secretary, and Instructed him specifically to inform the leaders he
had no knowledge of the President's design, further than that important
affairs were to be communicated to Congress.
Promptly at the hour named, his secretary went to the President's room
in the Capitol and 6ent for Chairman Stone and Majority Leader Kern. After
a hurried conference, they went to the House side and talked with Majority
Leader Kitchin.
A few minutes later, a resolution for a joint session was introduced in
the House. "Does the gentleman from North Carolina desire immediate act
ion on this?" asked Representative MondelL acting as Republican leader In
the absence of Representative Mann.
"Yes," responded the Democratic leader. "I understand the President
has some very important communication to make." The House at once
passed the resolution and the clerk carried it to the Senate. Vp to the mom
ent the clerk entered, a majority of the senators still were in ignorance of
t
the development.
Senator. Kern at a point in the dividing aisle or the Senate and before the
vice-president's desk, awaited the clerk's report of the House resolution and at
once asked for its immediate adoption. ' r
A sense of its meaning electrified the chamber, although the senators
were in ignorance of its full purposes and In a tense silence it was passed.
Secretary Tumulty returned to the White House and Congress, as the
possibility of the President's action dawned upon it, was galvanized with a
realization of its significance.
The Senate, which had settled down to a night session on the army bill,
listened attentively while Senator Williams spoke of the need of national de
fense, and then in quick succession, adopted amendments which, in effect,
would eventually create an available fighting force of 1,000,000 men. The re
organization of the national guard, the creation of a yolunteer army, military
training schools, and an amendment to increase the standing army to 250.000
men a number much in excess of the military committee's recommendation
or the provision of the House bill, were quickly approved, and the bill itself
was passed and sent to conference to adjust differences with the House.
There was no visible connection between the two events, but its signifi
cance was remarked upon.
There is only one Instance in. modern diplomatic history in which a break
ing of diplomatic relations between two first class powers has not eventually
been followed by war. It Is the sequence of relations between Germany and
Italy, and it stands alone against a precedent which diplomats regard as the
inevitable.
President Wilson's purpose in going before Congress Is explained to be
in recognition of the fact that while the executive branch of the' government
lias power to break diplomatic relations. Congress alone has the power to de
clare war, and the President feels, therefore, that it should be advised of an
action in which it may subsequently be called upon to bear a part.
President Wilson has guarded with unusual precautions for secrecy the
words he will deliver. Contrary to custom, no copy of his remarks mill be
given out In advance. He will read from personally prepared manuscript, on
which he has worked three days, and of which no copy was made. Some of
the cabinet members know and tliey are bound In honor not to reveal the
President's aim before he speaks to Congress, the country and to Germany.
The President has refused to tell his own secretary because, as the President
expressed it, he expected his secretary would be questioned about it.
Count von Bernstorff, the German ambassador, calling upon Secretary
Lansing by direction of his government, almost at the moment the President
was arranging the joint session of Congress, was informed that the Secretary
could not discuss the situation with him at this time. It was evident that
the ambassador was seeking information of the American government's plans.
The ambassador did state to Secretary Lausinj: that whjl onder bo cir
cumstances could Germany give up the submarine because it was being used
(Continued on Paje Four.)
DOVER. Del.. April IS. The
Democratic state convention
which met today to select six
delegates arid alternates to the
national convention, instructed
the delegation to vote for the
renom illation of President Wil
son whose administration was
endorsed.
CABINET CRISIS
1
regular and reserve :
force will amount to :
1,000,000 soldiers;
House Bill, Providing For
Standing Peace Army of
140,000 is Passed. Grave
Developments Hurried it
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, April 18. In the
closing hour of debate the Senate maoe
provision for a regular standing army i
with a peace strength of 225,000 men,:
as compared with 140,000 in the Hay'
bill which passed the ' House. The
bill was adopted v after a close fiVht. j
The resolution also provided for a '
federal volunteer army reserve force '
calculated to aggregate 261.0O0 men,!
and federalized the national gunro !
forces of the states at an estimated (
strength of 280,000 men.
In addition to this combined regular
and reserve force of 790,000 men, in j
amendment was made the basis (or the ' London Reports That Com1
creation or a scnooi ana college
youth's reserve corps in time ot wai
or threatened war, which would re
cruit a force of trained young men i
schooled by the officer so fthe regular j
army, the estimated strength of which
is estimated any where from 200,000 !
to 400.000.
?
"REGULAR"
NOMINATED
NEW ORLEANS. April IS-
Scattering returns from the
state election indicated that
Kuffin G.' Pleasant, "Regular"
Democratic candidate for gov
ernor, was leading Jno. M. Par
ker, Progressive-Independent
Democrat, by about 3 to 1.
LESS PROBABLE
BUT STILL IS
FISH SENDS
1
promise Has Been Reached
By Committee, represent
ing Factions of Ministry
More Will Be Placed at The
Disposal of American Lead
er if Campaign Is Contin
ued. Texas Militia Ready
(By Revisw Leased Wirei
SAN ANTONIO. April IS. Genera!
Pulsion is sending to General Per-
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LONDON, April 19 The cabinet
We are creating here tonight a i leaders have reached what is believed I i hing morn than 2,000 additional
peace army of a million men," declared to te an acceptable compromise late ; troops end there is reason to believe
Ileal even :i:rr v. in u- imoeu in
disposal if the campaign a-'tilnsl Villa
is continued. The troops which have.
Senator Meyers, in supporting an j ,agt n,Rhtt at.rord!af. t0 the lobby cor-
STHPntlmptif of Qpnntnr T?fr.1 ie nmto .
the regular arinv ?r.n 000 Th .n. respondent of the Daiiy Mail
which
passed the bill by a vote of 4.1 to 37. has the information lor the morning been ordered -to Pershing's base at
The apparently grave developments j paper political reports. It says:
or tne few nours preceding the pas
sage of the bill also probably served
(Continued on Pa?e 4)
ANNOUNCES FOR
"The political atmosphere grew
easier last niaht and resignations from
the ministry are liow unlikely. The
committee, which was appointed toi
Coln'rbus are now on duly along the
border. What troops will relieve them
i:nd where ihoy come froui remain
ed unannounced. It may be that the
v.r-r department will heve to authorize
trv to reach a:i agreement between;"' -"um u. -
the divergent grouos. sat all dav and troops in the I n-te.l Stales into this
late in th3 evening, s-rrhed at whatlPattment or " b" ,hat ,ne
is understood as an acceptable com-i'iK cf the vacant points along the,
promise. border may be left to the government
This' compromise is to the effect I of Texa sv hich may send the mili-
that the general compulsion shall notjtia
be adopted, but that the principle
OF MINES
ha!l ne formally adopted, that if in
the future national interests are
shown to require a full measure of
compulsion, then it shall be adopted.
In oth.r words, toe question of uni
versal conscription is postponed with
half promise that it may be adopted
in the future.
"The position of Mr. Lloyd-George,
Prominent Local Democrat
Throws His Hat Into Ring
For Nomination, In Septem
ber Primary, For Office
Harry Jennings, for the past twenty
years a resident of the Warren Dis
trict, a Democrat of the first water,
liked by all who know him and a
popular idol of his closer friends, has
announced himself as a candidate in
the Democratic primary, this coming
September, for the nomination of
Mine Inspector for the state of Ari
zona. The Bisbee man is the first Cochise
county man, not holding office at the
present time and who has aspiration
in that direction, to announce himself.
The declaration follows numerous
written offers of support from every
section of the state and the statement
from Charles F. Hanson, of Douglas,
that he is not a candidate hut would
support Harry Jennings of Bisbee in
the contest. It will be remembered
that Hanson, in the last primary, was
a strong contender for the nomina-
The troops sent for General Persh
ing are the Sixth cavalry from thei
Brownsville district. The Seventeenth
infantry fro-n Eagle Pass. Texas,
Troop L cf the Tenth Cavalry, from
Port Apache. Arizona, and one battal
ion of the 24;h infantry, one company
of which is at El Paso, one at Marfa
arid another at Fa ben. Maria is a
town just north of ujinaga, on in
Earl Kitchener and Mr. Bonar I aw .Mexican froniier and Fabens is on the
er curious anangement."
El Pn.-o.
In addition to these troops, totaling
'Villi unuril llerliiin nil hns in t4
PREPARE FOR ISSUE. " ' . . ..;,,, S(m man h.
Apm neccwity o fmaintaining at H,ast
cab.net crisis exists is unden able bu recognized.
according to an amhorative staJement, j
no resignations, either ministerial or . ...
military have been tendered, and it! Hut even w,,h more troops the pur
will pr'ohablv be several days before i "'' ot ilia will be a slow and tcd
the crisis is" ended. The Marquis of '' J" ' 'rial is followed south
Crewe. Uird President of the Council.!"' he s'.aie of Chihuahua in the opin-
in his statement to the House of'';i oi oim-er w no sy mm u.r
Lords todav. which was the first of-, beyond. Cafevo make increasingly dif
ficial adinissic.il of the gravity and ficult the operation of military supply
complexity of the problem dividing i trucks. An advantaee gained by the
the ministers, intimated the possibili-1 use of shorter route either through
ty that Premier Asquith might not be'Oiinnga or Fabens. but this plan, il
prepared even on Thursday, to make! was reported from Washington, would
his promised statement, in which case j be unacceptable and the remaining
the House would sit the following j plan and what military men regarded
Monday. i Hhe only logical plan, the use of
Both sides in this momentous con-lth railroad south from El Paso, out
flirt are marshalling all their avail-1 of the question because of Carranza's
able forces for the parliamentary i refusal to permit it and the reluctance
struggle over Sir Edward Carson's of the administration to use its power,
motion for universal military service. Additional troops are being sent to
Strong whips are out and all the mem-; General Pershing as much for the use
hers of the House of Commons serv-iprul protection of those already in
ing at the front have been granted j Mexico along the line of communica
leave to remain in London until anion a s;o strengthen the mobile forces
division is taken. Political sossip to- which ore in the region south of Sa-
Hostility has been displayed
i isier oi iuuiiuuiii, muni: ine line u iruniiuuuii hiioh unu
resident of Bisbee. and of Arizona. George, and Winston Spencer Church-. jn ihat not all the Carranza element.
He came to the state over twenty I ju an(1 the possibility of Mr. Llovd-)0.n niiltiary and civil, were friendly,
vears ago from Colorado, where he (jeor..e succeeding Mr. Asquith a3 the scouts are continuing their work lo
had worked in the mines of Cripple uoa,i f tn, government. Ica'ina Carranza troops, in that viein
Creek. Leadville and otl'er places. ( while tlie l onscrintionist attack on jilv Liitle acunl work in the chase of
I'pon coming to this section he did I the ministery is undoubtedly puliticnl villa has been done since the Amerl:
tkm. I night centers mainly around the min-j;evo.
Jennings mav justly be called an old ' jster of munitions. David Lloyd- aloni
Ml . ' II, ,11. 9 UUAIllh ! 1.1 ..' -
mine, for Thomas HiKcins. the then j present coalition ministry tirst :
owner of the property. Since t'ijn j Asnuith's ability still is surmoui
the first work on the South Bishee ! an,i threatening, there also are strong
group of rlaims, now the famous C le j forc es making for the retention of the
Mr.
mounting
he has seen an agsreent" of fifteen p it jral difficulties and holding his
years work, t'ndererouncl and is at team together, and second: the prob
present employed by the Hisr.ins . ni of finding an alternative govern
Mines Comnany. j ment to the present coalition and the
In 1898. .Tennincs. wi'h manv other repugnance felt in large sections of
Arizonans. joined the First Territorial th country to a change in the gov
Volunteers and served under Colonel eminent at critical staee of the na
McCord until the regiment was tion's life. Moreover It is known
mustered out. 'yXndrew P.onar law, who Is conscrin-
In politics h' hai been alwnv of tionist in principle ami who was lead
the Democratic faith. From his first er of the 1'nlonist party prior to en
introduction into Arizona his aim ant terine the coalition government, and
his work has nlwavs been extonde-t whose reputation as a parliamentarian
to th promotion of the success of has erown enormously since th war.
the Democratic rartv. At various making him a possible successor to
times he has been on the central Mr. Asquith, attaches the utmost inv
rommittees of the city, conutv and pnrtance in the national interest to
state and han plways acrrditd him- the msinenanee of the present cuali
HPf well in these connections. tien ministry in power.
Continued on Page Six.) t (Continued on Page 3)
can treotis were forced into a fight in
the environs of Pnrral.
The force of Genera! Pershing have
occupied points from where they can
mnke rapid moves and General Per
shing ha sestablished his field head
quarters at Namiquipa some distance
norlh of Satevo.
TEXAS MILITIA R ADV.
Austin. Texas. April IS. The Texas
'.itional guard is in readiness for
any call and can be mobilized at a
.mo-nents notice, but no orders for
mobilization have been issued, adju
tant General Henry Hutching sain to.
night when asked of the possibility
that the state militia might be called
upou 'o replace V. S. troops alon? tlj
torrier.
(Jovernnr J. E. Ferguson would
not di.'.cuss the proposed withdrawal
(Continued on Tage S)
PURSUIT OF VILLA AT i
STANDSTILL; LITTLE
KNOWIHN CAPITAL!
President And Cabinet Dis-'
cuss the Situation Briefly,
But No Official Would Say
What Was Decided
I ISTi
E
E;
HE
STILL DUBIOUS
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON, April 18 The ad
ministration is waiting on further re
ports from American omcers in Mex
ico before deeding whether the expedi
tion seeking Vijla shall be withdrawn
or reinforced for further operations.
Indications at the War Department
bore out press reports from the frent.
that the pursuit of Villa was tem
porarily at a standstill.
President Wilson and his cRiiie-t
discussed the situation briefly tody
in the light of a review of its n.iliiary
aspects, submitted by Central Funs
ton. It was announced later thai the
situation to unchanged and the 'id
ministration's policy unaltered. One
member of the cabmet admitted, how
ever, that no Gnal decision lias beeu
reached as to the withdrawal of the
troops.
Officials would reveal no word of
the report submitted by General
Funston. It was apparent, however,
that it outlined a situation which re
quires action in Washington. The
line of communication with Gen ral
Pershing's force already Is drawn too
thin, and there is no disposition lerc
to contradict border advices that more
troops must he sent if the chase Is
to be pressed fuitiier.
It was thought probable, although
no ofheial would talk about this piiuse
of the question, that the Geruan siti:
(Continued on Page 7
Army Officers Plainly Skepti
cal cf the Alleged Death of
j Notorious Bandit Leader in
Wilds of Chihuahua
I CARRANZA OFFICIALS
: CONTINUES TO BELIEVE
FEDERAL PROBE
1
OFFICIAL
MID IT
Embassy at Washington De
mands That Wolfe von Igel
an Attache, Be Released
Unconditionally
(Bv Review Leased Wirei
WASHINGTON. April IS. The Cer
man embiwsy today demanded of the
State Department the immediate re
turn of papers and document a seized
by agents of the Department ot Jus
tice in the New York offices of Cap-
. . i it i
tain Franz von t-apen. me
military attache of the embassy. At
the same time the embassy requested
the release of Wolfe von Igel. von
Papen's. former secrelary. arrested by
the authorities in New York on an In
dictment charging conspiracy to blow
up the Welland Canal.
Councillor Polk of the State De
partment, to whom the representa
tions were made, instructed the IV
part ment of Justice to return the pap
ers at once and free von Ingel unless
the offense against him was commit
ted before he became a member of
the embassy staff. Assistant Attorney
General Warren, in charge of neutral
ity cases, said the matter had not
beeu brought to his attention. It was
understood the State Department re
quest would be acted upon tomorrow.
Prince von llal.feldt. counsellor of
the embassy, who made the represen
tations, demanded that the papers and
documents be sealed and restored
without being photographed or copied .
It was said at the embassy that the
contents of the papers were unknown
to them and that the .restoration was
made alter von Unci had conimuni-,
rated over the long distance tele
phone from New York. 1
State Department records show for
mal notification of the appointment of
von Igel was received during last
September, after von Papen had been i
declared persona non grata. Yon Igel
had been in the office of von Papen
for several months prior to that'.
Teutonic officials appear, to he sur
prised on being informed that the re-'
lease of von Igel had been condition
ally ordered. They indicate they had
been Informed the release of the pri
soner - would be unconditional. A '
leoetby report on the aflair was to,
hav hioeu forwarded to Berlin tonight ;
NEW YOKK. April IS. I nited ,
(Continued on Page S)
Nothing Has Been Heard
From Consul Letcher Or
Other Source Which Would
Tend To( Verify The Story
(By Review Leased Wire)
EL PASO, 'April IS. The report of
Yilla's death was indirectly con firmed
here today by an American mining
man who controls . large interests in
the Guerrero district. This man U
in c1o.m touch with the American mil
itary authorities and has forwarded
his information. He said:
"I know that Yilla was woa.idcd at
Guerrero. I taw received my ac
count of the aflair fro in a i.isn in
whom I have the fU'lc.u confidence.
He tells me that YiUa was shot
through the ri?;ht knee, the bu'let
kiltinc his hor-v liitl: f. !l. p:nr,:'i
the bandit under It and injuriac tis
left le. This was on March -'J.
alter ihat I received daily rcj.e:t
about Yilla's n:oc:i.erts np tj Ap-;I
15 when he was at Satevo. After
then i heard nothing about hl-ii.
knowing his condition ar.d lh" cer
tainty of his being wounded I consider
it highly probable lha: he i.s del a
be surely could not have got any
proper medical treatment."
Additional weight was given to this
statement in view of the fact thai ihe
! man was fiankly iu favor of in:cr-
vention and regards the death ot
i Yilla as a fclr.w to his hopes as it
'would mean the wi' h.'raw;.! of the
! American troops. Sunir.ranre is also
j seep, iu the altitude of the Mexican
oOicials here and in Juarez u h: fc.nve
never ubated "heir confidence in ;he
truth of the repcrt of Yilla's deuih.
; In j-piie of tlie imrniuiity .f t'eneiat
i. ''.. and other American oilio rs u:id
oflii ir.U Coimil Garcia lias maintained
stoutly that the haatiil i:. dead. He
deflated tonight that he was certain
continuation of the end-tig of Yilla's
career would be received here very
shortly.
t The position taken by Consul C.r
cia and General Gavira lias some h it
shaken the coi:tiii-ni e oi the sUeti. s
l 'it the seneral attitude in Kl I'ao is
t'lill one of wau-kful waiting.
QUIET ALONG L'NE.
; coLrv.r.rs. v m.. April iv
i Truck men retiirniii- to tin t'.ir.i -r-.
todr.y brousrt reports of qr.ei pre-,
vailing zlong the Afu-rican line of
co'uiiiiinication. The trip from the
from was nre enT'iil. th-y said, an i
rumors of trouble which ha.e N on
current in Coiiimbus were denied. It
was pointed out that while every pn
. paration has been made by tiie vari
: ous detachments for any develop
ments, an increased fetlinz of sectiri-
ty was e'.pressed all alotvj the lii.e.
Much Interest was uro.i-M-1 here by
the artival of Tany Sa;f"rd. a M
ii an half brrd. S.T.fnr.l is beip? bi Id
inco-nniunicado and under a hcavy
guanl. niiliiary authorities rcftisina tn
make any statement coiicerninK him.
It is known, however, lha: he is su-spec-e-l
of guiding the Yilla band upon
Columbus.
Thirty one sick and injured n:cn
were hrotiuh' from t'le front teiny.
Manv of them h:id been trette 1 hi the
field hospital in Colenia Publan and
were suffering from minor disease.
Notv was in a dangerous rendition
and none had been injured in aet:on
as was tirst report -d. medical ntlicir
said.
Major Clyde S. Kord. of the Medical
Corps of Whee'ing. W. Ya . arrived
from the field today on his way to
London, where ho has been detailed
as medical observer with the Prttih
army.
Major Kord was American medical
observer with the Turkish army in the
tirst Pulgarjan campaign.
MITCHELL. S. IV. April IS An
nouncement tonight from state bead
ouarteri of the anti-saloon league ,iid
kbe risloon had been vo'el out of
onrteen towns in tnfUy's tiiy election
en the license question and eisht of
the largest towns had voted to remain
dry. None o fthe towns oied to
change from no license to license.
