TfrTrTP'rm'r'' " r vr T wr.?vWE(,
"yrf?L- ' ,
Wat Vtegtmt me
WEATHER FORECAST:
Partly Cloudy Tonight.
(Full Report on Pago Two.)
NTJMBEB 8875.
WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY EVENING, APRIL 19, 1010.
PKICE ONE CENT.
"HOME
.EDITION
ULTIMATUM SENT BERLIN,
WILSON TELLS CONGRESS
ONLY ONE HOPE
TO AVOID BREAK
MM GROWS HOUDINI GETS I
FORPERSHING'S OUT OF JACKET
MEN IN MEXIC0 100 FEETIN AIR
Dispatches From Funston Tes
tify to Growing Hostility on
Part of Carranzistas.
SCOTT ORDERED TO BORDER
TO DELIVER ULTIMATUM
More 15,000 Persons Cheer as
"Handcuff King" Frees Him
self Hanging Head Down.
FREES SELF IN 2i2 MINUTES
Growing alarm is felt in official
circles for the safety of the Ameri
can forces in Mexico.
Dispatches received at the Wai
Department from General Fun
ston, many of which enclose ad
vices direct from Pershing's head
quarters, testify to a steadily in
creasing hostility on the part of
the Carranza forces in southern
Chihuahua. .
General Pershing '-Tias notified
his superiors that pldin warning
has been served on hjm by the
v .;nza authorities that any at
tempt on the part of the expedition
to proceed further southward will
meet with resistance.
ULTIMATUM COMING.
Reports from the border contain
clrcumstnnlal statements from Cnr
ranza authorities that nn ultimatum
demanding an Jmmcdlnte withdrawal
of tho American troop from Mexico
In In course of preparation
MaJ. Gen. Hugh L. Hcott, chief of
taff of the nrmy, has hecn ordered to
proceed tonight to San Antonio to
confer with MaJ. Gen. Frederick Pun
ton. The latter reported to tho War De
partment today thBt becnuso of the
threatening attltudo of the Cnrr'an
slntas. General 1'orshlng has moved
his troop In such a way hh to
trengthen hln communications with
the advance columns.
General Kunston has further advised
tho War Department that because of
the disturbing reports he has received,
(Continued on Eighth rage.)
Aqueduct Bridge
Bill Up in Senate
Senator Smoot Starts Controversy
by Trying to Divide Costs
of Construction.
On motion of Senator Swnnsnn rf
Virginia, tho Aqueduct hrldgo bill was
taken up In the fa'onnte thlx afternoon.
It has been pissed by the Iloucc and
provides for a now Aqueduct bridge t
cost $1,006,000.
Senator Smoot stirred up n, contro
versy by remarking that tho Govern
ment In the near futuro would con
struct a great Lincoln memorial brldgo
and pay nil tho costH.
Ho said tho State of Virginia ought
to bear part of tho expense of tho Aque
duct bridge. Ho offered an amondment
that tho Htato of Virginia pay one-third,
tho District one-third, and tho United
States Government ono-thfM.
Senator Swanson strongly objected.
He said Alexandria county and not tho
Htato of Virginia would havo to bear
the cost and It was unablo to do It. IIo
pointed out that tho Government owned
one-third of tho land In Alexandria
county and paid no taxes on It and that
tho county was embarrassed In road
building because of It.
CoiiBidornble discussion of thd Smoot
amendment followed.
Passenger Train
Goes Into River
, LA rnOSSrj. Wis., April 19,-Burllng-ton
pnssungir train, No. M, left tho
jnllu mid plunged Into (lie Mississippi
llxor south of Do .Soto, AVIs., early to
!n, Telephone reports fiom thu scene
i f t'io wreck said no one was njurcd
except the enUneer. ,
Tho locomotive and baprngo cur were
repotted to be submerged. A wreck,
lnu' toiln left La C'rosso for Do Soto
lit ' a. m
lllirh waters In tho vicinity of Do
Soto have ilolioed all Uurllncton truffle
for several hours.
' More than 15,000 persons saw
Harry Houdini hanged today in
front of The Times building.
In just 2 minutes and 30 sec
onds from the time he was swung
into mid-air, trussed up in a
strait-jacket from which there is
said to be no escape, Houdini
wiggled himself free, waved his
arm and was lowered to 'tjhc
ground. '
As Houdini freed himself from
the jacket, the crowd sent up a
cheer which could be heard for
blocks.
As a moment later, Houdini
waved his arm to the yelling, ap
plauding throng, and while the
cameras and motion picture ma
chines clicked, the men who held
the ropes let him down.
CROWDS JAM STREETS.
Persons who saw tho great throng
from windows of nearby buildings said
It was the biggest crowd ever as
sembled In Washington at one plaeo
except for the Inauguration of a Presi
dent. Pennsylvania avenuo nnd n street,
from Thirteenth to Fourteenth streets.
wero literally Jammed. Human beings
wero packed as tight and closo as sar
dines In a can.
Had To eGt Police Aid.
There camo near being no Houdini
hanging.
Thoro were too many spectators.
The "handcuff king" and Manager
nobblns. of Keith's Theater found It
nccenmry to call for police nld to get
thiough the mob that assembled In front
of tho MutiHcy building, nobblns was
left behind In tho automobile, and
Captain Perk conducted the star per
former of the day to tho platform that
had been uullt for him by main
htrength.
Tout's worso than getting nut of a
Htniltjiieket," said Houdini, when ho
reached tho platform, purring und sel
ling his clothes back In plaio, from
(Continued on Second Page.)
Boy Slashes Hearty
Wound Sewed Up
Daring Operation Saves Life of
Youth Who Wanted to Go
to Mexico,
PHILADELPHIA, April 1S.-A stab
wound In tho heart was closed by
surgeons at St. Joseph's Hospital last
night in a remarkablo operation which
may savo tho life of Georgo I.co Pride,
eighteen, who stabbed himself with a
pocket knife, becaimo recruiting of
llcers wouldn't enlist him for Mexican
service.
lh tho excitement no onu thought of
pulling tho knlfo out of tho boy's luirt.
That saved him from Immediate death.
When he reached St. Joseph's Hospital,
Dr. J. F. X. Jones, a staff surgeon,
found that tho young man's heart wes
beating and thut ho had lost no blood.
Prldo was sent to tho operating room,
and Doctor Jones made nn incision near
the stab wound, and when ho was r early
to sew the heart together, drew out
the pocket knife. Before any blood vas
lost, he had rejoined tho walls of tho
right ventricle whero tho wound was.
It wan said at the hospital late last
night thut Prldo had excellent clianou
for recovery. .
Ho camo here a week ago from Al
legheny county. Intending to enlist In
tho cavalry. He was rotused orcauso
of n weak heart. He win down to
lila l.iu. rllllt. wllAtl tin 4rlArl irt nr .1
I his life.
Norway Steamer Sunk;
All of Crew Rescued
LISBON. April 19. Tho Norwegian
steamer Tcrjo Vlken has been sunk.
The crew was rescued.
..MliiiimiiiHlli.BHHfiiiil
m MmwmmmmmmmAmr HHHHIIIIIIIIIIIIH
' Jmmm. tPPVf'? iBIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH
JiB. Sid&tWk&'s dHiHIIIIIIIIIIIIH
HiD.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiv ' .HiiiiiiiiiiiiilliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH
---WSSBIimmmmmmmmW A!!iiiiHliliiiiiiiiiiiiH
mmmWik' SMmmMim:. ' SksillillHiilllllllllllllH
r
JAMES W. (?ERARD,
American Ambassador to Germany.
LEGISLATORS
B
E
Hearing Opens on Bill to Con
solidate Railway and Power
Companies.
NEW U-BOAT. CRISIS
PLANS FOR MERGER SENT MARKET DOWN
Reports of Imminent Trouble
With Germany Causes Sharp
BreakWar Stocks Fall.
Congresimen Ilourke, Mapcs, Cros
sor, and Tlnkham manifested a keen
Interest in tho opening hearing on
tho Falrchlld bill to conBolIdato tho
Potomac Electric Powor Company nnd
tho Washington Hallway and Klcctrlc
Company befort the Houo District
Commlttco today.
W. F. Ham, lco president of tho
Washington Itnllvay nnd Hleetrlc
Company, and Attorney lUisscll
l'.owen, counsel for the company, who
appeared before tho committee In
advocacy of tho measure, wero piled
with questions ly those four Con
gressmen and many Intricate legal
phases of tho proposed consolidation
wero threshed out.
Tho hearing adjourned until 10
oTclock tomorrow morning because of
the early call of tho Hnuso to attend
tho Joint session of Congress.
Kntrlnoer Commissioner Kutz was
Just about to begin Ills statement in
opposition to tho bill when adjourn
ment was taken. Ho will begin his
statement when the hearing Is re
sumed tomorrow.
Commissioners Newman nnd Brown
low nnd Corporation Counsel Symo
also were proncnt, and It I under
Hod thoy will bo heard before the
hearing adjourns.
Vlco President Ham said tho com
(Continued on Eighth Page.)
Begins Probe of
Poison Pen Letters
Inspector Cortelyou Details As
sistants to Philadelphia
Attacks.
PHILADELPHIA, April 10. Chief
Postofnce Inspector Cortelyou today
detailed several of his best assistants
to probe "polson-pon" attacks on a
number of promtnont society women.
Scurrilous missives, all written In
the same handwriting, have bocn re
ceived lately by fashionable Phila
delphia and Main line residents. The
sender Is believed to be n woman.
Tho only clue the authorities have
is the knowledge the letters were
mailed here. All were mailed In va
rious parts of tho city and Invariably
in street boxes.
I The names of the victims are being
withheld.
NUW YOItK, April lS.-The stock
market broko badly today on reports
from Washington that a break between
the United States nnd Germany is Im
minent. The war stocks recorded tho
blgrest losses.
Crucible Steel opened at 82, off 3S.
and immediately dropped half a point
lower. Ilaldwin Locomotlvo declined
two points on tho first trades, and
other munition shares suffered similar'
losses.
The downward movement was checked
to tin extent In the middle of tho first
halt hour. Crucible Steel rebounding
two points and steadying at tho ad
vance. Ualdwln nnd American Locomotive
were still under pressure, but showed
no further sharp losses. Aftor opening
dowr one point United States Steel
showed symptoms of recovery.
Pructlcnllv the wholo list fell under
tho Influence of tho war scare, though
railroad stocks wero affected only to a
ellght deprec.
Hypocritical, Says
Mann of Message
Bitter comment- on tho President's
message fell from tho lips of Republican
Leader Mann, following the President's
submarine message to Congress this aft
ernoon. "It Jr. a hypocritical speech probably
for cumpalgn purposes," he said. "The
President has been pro-English all dur
ing this controversy.
"I said at tho tlmo of tho McLemore
resolution that the President wanted to
get us into war with Germany, and I
say the samo thing now."
Two Americans Swear
Sussex Was Torpedoed
PAIUH. April 19.-Picsldent Wilson
bases his convictions that tho Sussox
was torpedoed partly on the affidavits
of two Americans, which wero for
warded to Washington by Ambassudor
Sharp, It was learned on good authority
todav
Both Samuel Bemls, of Medford.
Mass.. and Mis Ocrtrudn Warren, of
I St. Louis, Mo., swore that they saw the
wake of a torpedo.
Galleries and Floor of House Packed as
Chief ' Executive Speaks on This Coun
try's Relations With Germany
The United States Government has served a practical ultimatum
on Germany, demanding an immediate abandonment of the submarine
warfare.
Failure on Germany's part to comply will mean a severance of
diplomatic relations.
This was the message which President Wilson read today to the
Congress of the United States, in tones of solemn emphasis which elec
trified his hearers. He said:
si
"Unless the imperial German crovernm'ent should now im
mediately declare and effect an abandonment of its present meth
ods of warfare against passenger and freight carrying vessels, this
Government can have no choice but to sever diplomatic relations
with the government of the German empire altogether.
"This decision I have arrived at, with the keenest regret;
the possibility of the action contemplated I am sure all thoughtful
Americans look forward to with unaffected reluctance."
The message was delivered before both branches of Congress
assembled in the chamber of the House of Representatives.
The galleries were packed to their utmost capacity with a crowd
of men and women who sat in tense stillness.
Foreign diplomats were, present in large numbers. They had
come to hear America's last wor'd to Germany.
A note to Berlin, embodying the demand of the United States,
the President told Congress, has been cabled to Ambassador Gerard at
Berlin with instructions to present it at once to the German foreign office.
EMBASSY PAPERS
DEED
RETURNED
3
NEW YORK, April 19. Dls
trict Attorney Marshall an
nounced this afternoon that he
will proceed with tho conspiracy
prosecution nfjainst Wolf von
IrcI, secretary to Captain von
Papcn, recalled nttachc, unless
specifically directed otherwise by
Attorney General Gregory.
Secretary of State Lansing today or
dered the return to the Gornmn Em
bassy of papem taken from Wolf von
Igel, under arrest in New York, In con
nection with tho Wclland canal plots.
This action wob taken after Count on
Ilenislorft, the German Ambjssndar,
had filed with tho State Department a
protest against seWuro of tho papcistl
Secretary Lnt'Flni: previously hnd or
dered tho conditional relcaso of on
lgel, upon protests tiled by tho dornnn
ambassador against the urrest4 of an
embassy agent In violation of diplomatic
immunity.
Bernstorff Pale. "
Count von llernstorff, tho Ucrman
ambassado, was very palo as ho left
the Stato Department after n tuenty
.minute conference with Secretary Lan
sing, lib said that ho knew absolutely
nothing of this Government's Intentions.
Ambassador Von Hernslorff said ho
was not given n noto for transmission
to his government or a copy of any
note that might havo been sent to Am
bafivtdor Ucrard for dellveiy at Ilorlln.
He let it be understood that ho did not
discuss the notq with Secretary Ian
sing. It was npparent fiotu his demeanor,
however, that he had had n most seri
ous discussion with Secretary Lansing.
(Continued on Fourth Page.)
President's Message
As Read to Congress
The President's message, which he read to Congress
today, follows:
A situation has arisen in the foreign relations of the country of
. which it is my plain duty to inform you very frankly.
It will be recalled that in Febuiary, 1915, the imperial Ger
man government announced its intention to treat the waters sur
KHtnding Great Britain and Ireland as embraced within the scat of
war and to destroy all mcrhant ships owned by its enemies that
might be found within any part of that portion of the high seas,
and that it warned all vessels, of neutral as well as of belligerent
ownership, to keep out of the waters it had thus proscribed or else
enter them at their peril.
"The Government of the United States earnestly protested.
It took the position that such a policy could not be pursued without
the practical certainty of gross and palpable violations" 6f The law of
nrtions, particularly if submarine craft were to be employed as its
instruments, inasmuch as the rules prescribed by that law, rule&
founded upon principles of humanity and established for the protec
tioi of the lives of non-combatants at sea, could not in the nature
of the case be observed by such vessels.
It based its protest on the ground that persons of neutral na
tionality and vessels of neutral ownership would be cxposdd to ex
treme and intolerable risks, and that no right to close any pant of
(Continued on Page Four.)
