mm «. ** prr?™ m m,
Note Warns Thai Unless U-Boat Attacks
HARRISBURG ifSllffe TELEGRAPH
T vvv\r OQ BY CABHIBR « CBNVS A WEfK.
LXXX V i\o. OO KIXGI.K COI'IES 3 CENTS.
DIPLOMA TIC RELA TIONS WITH GERMANY
TO BE SEVERED BY U. S. UNLESS ILLEGAL
U-BOA T A TTACKS CEASE IS UL TIMA TUM
Last Word Contains Plain Statement That We Could Not
Remain on Friendly Terms With Germany if Amer~
icanLivesContinued toße Placed in Jeopardy by Sub-
marines; Demand to Stop Is Unequivocal; Break
May Be Avoided if Submarine Warfare Is Conducted
in Accordance With Accepted Rules of International
Law
FULL FACTS LEADING UP TO PRESENT
SITUATION ARE GIVEN TO CONGRESS
Demand Is Made on Kaiser to Reply Immediately; Wil
son Informs Nation s Lawmakers of the Accumula
tion of Facts Proving That Germany's Assurances to
U. S. Are Being Violated; That the Underwater Cam
paign, Despite Protests, Is Being Conducted With
Renewed Vigor in Contravention of All the Laws of
Nation and Humanity; War Practically Certain to
Follow Breaking of Relations
\\ ashington, April 10.—President Wilson told Congress,
assembled in joint session shortly after 1 o'clock this afternoon, he
has given Germany irrevocable notification that the United States
will break off diplomatic relations if her illegal submarine campaign
is continued.
A note, Americ: 's last word, practically an ultimatum and de
manding an immediate reply, presumably was in the Berlin Foreign
Office as the President was speaking.
It was dispatched last night in accordance with the President's
plan to have r* before the German government at the same moment
he was addressing the American Congress.
I he President asked no action whatever, of Congress, lie simply
informed it of the accumulation of facts proving that Germany's
assurances to the United States arc being violated; that the subma
rine campaign, despite the earnest protests of the United States, is
being conducted with renewed vigor in contravention of all the laws
of nations and humanity and that lie means to sever relations un
less it is brought within the law.
Diplomatic history of the world shows that such a course is
almost certain to be followed by war.
The President's note and his address to Congress arc final. Thev
mark the end of diplomatic exchanges. A continuance of the long
standing friendly relations, the President made clear depends alone
upon Germany's conduct.
President Speaks
The President said:
Gentlemen of the Congress: A sit
uation lias arisen in the foreign rela
tions of the country of which it is my
plain duty to inform you very frankly.
It will be recalled that in February,
1915, the imperial German government
announced its intention to treat tlie
waters surrounding Great Britain and
Ireland as embraced within the seat of
war and to destroy all merchant ships
owned by its enemies that might be
found within any part, of that portion
of the high seas, and that it warned all
vessels, of neutral as well as of bil
ligerent ownership, to keep out of the
waters it had thus prescribed or else
enter them at their peril. The govern
ment of the United States earnestly
protested.
Based on Law of -Nations
It took the position that such a
policy could not be pursued without
the practical certainty of gross and
palpable violations of the law of na
tions, particularly if submarine craft
were to be employed as its instru
ments, inasmuch as the rules pre
scribed by that law, rules founded
upon principles of humanity and es-
THE WEATHER
l or Ifnrrifthiiric and vicinity: Part
ly cloudy i«-nißh( and Tburaday;
warmer Thursday; lowewt tem
perature to-alK»it ibout 15 de
cree*.
l-'or Kantern I'ennitylvania: I'artly
<*loiiily In Houthcrn ami probably
Mhntvem In northern portion to
night and Tburadny, with rl*l»K
temperature; moderate, varftihlc
VI lads.
River
Tlie *»ii««|uchiiiiiiii river aad proh
ajily all It* tributaries will con
tinue to fall. A Mtnicc of ahoul
7.!t feet I* Indicated for IlarriM- I
burs: Thursday morning.
Cieneral Condition*
The \rw lOnuland dinturhance I*
central oft* the Maine coa*t. mov
ing slowly iiorthen*tward. It ha*
<*aiiNed rain In New lOngland and
atroiiK went wind* In the Atlan
tle State* from \orth ( arollna
northward In the la*t twenty
four hour*.
The temperature ha* fallen - to 12
degree* over all the territory
went of the Kocky Mountain* and
in the Canadian provinces of Sas
katchewan.
Temperaturet S a. in., 4S.
Sun: itlse*. rc'JO a. m.; net*. <»:1S
p. ni.
Moon: Itine*, S:BS ii m.
River Stage: 8.2 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday** Weather
Highest temperature, 110.
VjOwckl temperature, 47.
Mean temperature, ."it.
rVormal temperature, 52.
EASTER MUSIC
T» limurc publication of Kaxtrr
musical program* on the Nnturiln.v
churcli pnxr, rhorialrrH of Ibr city
churchc* mailt nru«l copy to the
Idcßrnnh Kill to rin I «ricm not later
thnn Thurmln.v afternoon. fit 2
o'clock. I'roicrliDiN rmlvrd after
thai hour *■» 111 not lie puhllnhrd. The
reKiilnr meekly church notice* will
lie accepted up until Friday after- I
noon, at 2 o'clock.
tablishcd for the protection of the
lives of noncombatants at sea, could
(not in the nature of the case be ob
served by such vessels. It based its
1 protest on the ground that persons of
neutral nationality anil vessels of neu
i tral ownership would be exposed to
j extreme and intolerable risks, and that
' j no right to close any part of the high
seas against the use or to expose them
| to such risks should lawfully be as
' i by any 'belligerent government.
1 J The law of nations in these matters,
j upon which the government of the
[ I nited States based its protest, is not
lof recent origin or fcunded upon
■: merely arbitrary principles set up bv
convention. It is based, on the con
i trary, upon manifest and imperative
iiprinciples of humanity and has long
: been established with the approval and
[Continued on Page 6.]
Paxtang School Board
Will Fix Planting Date
at Meeting This Evening
special to the Telegraph
Paxtang, Pa., April 19. —A special
meeting of the Paxtang Borough
I .School Board will be held this eve
: ning at }( o clock to make some ar
; range,,, ents f„r a Spring planting day
and also to set a date. The plan is to
Have the children of the borough
schools do the planting under the
, direction ol representatives of the
.Mate Department of Agriculture and
the l orestry Commission of Pennsyi
| vania. Pledges received already have
imadc the planting dav possible At
the present time sufficient shrubberv I
has been offered by the Berryhiil
Nursery and private subscribers to
make the corners of the building take
on a picturesque appearance. J F
I R ' ,orp i' Sor| . '"eal estate dealers, have
offered a number of trees which will
be planted on the grounds.
Residents of the town and patrons
of the schools are invited to attend
, the meeting this evening.
Typhus Germs Found in
Blood of Mrs. Warren Waite
By Associates Press
Grand Rapids, Mich., April 19 !
According to announcement made here
last night, typhus germs have been
found in the blood of Mrs. Arthur
Warren Waite. wife of the dentist
i awaiting trial in New York for the
murder of his father-in-law, John E. I
Peck, of Grand Rapids. The blood,
test, it was stated, was made at Ann
Arbor, and as a result of the alleged i
finding of the bacilli, Mrs. Waite has
gone to a sanitorium for treatment.
Her condition, however, is not con
i sidercd serious, as she was not greatlv
affected by the inoculation.
During the Illness of Mrs. Waite's
parents in New York according to a
: story credited to Mrs. Watte, her hus
; l and furnished, not only Tor her but
also for her parents, an atomizer con
taining a solution with which she
sprayed her throat. This treatment
Dr. Waite said, was to render her im
i mi:ne from colds. Mr. and Mrs. Peck 1
also used the same solution, it was'
.said. It is believed this solution was
j tli.- vehicle for the administration of;
i the deadly germs. , |
HARRISBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY EVENING, APRIL 19, 1916
HERE IS THE VESSEL WHICH BROUGHT
RELATIONS BETWEEN THIS COUNTRY AND GERMANY TO A HEAD
\ 4 m fIMHMONi 1
j2JLTJLH. £,X£J*.OSi.GfJ ' tt/jv7Y
I The photograph shows the British Channel Steamer Sussex on her arrival in tho harbor of Boloirne after she had
. n torpedoed on Friday, March 24. Tho picture shows the entire forward part of the vessel blown a w "v! New evi
unXMea"bol?t I resident that the vessel while enroute from Folkestone to Dieppe was torpedoed by a German I
, ENOLA SCHOOL IS
BURNED DOWN IN
!l 40-MILE GALE
Sparks From Blazing Building
si For Time Threatens
Whole Town
TEACHER IS RESCUED
r Local Apparatus Helps Fight
-j Flames; Loss $30,000; to
Rebuild at Once
?
Fighting against a forty-mile an
B hour wale, together with a lack of
f water pressure, firemen of Enola, Har
. risbnrg and Mechanicshurg, after a
y three-hour battle, extinguished a blaze
t I which late yesterday afternoon de
j stroyed the Summit street school
v building in Enola. and for a time
. ■ threatened the entire town.
The blaze was discovered about 4.30
o'clock yesterday afternoon by two
M teachers. Misses Mae Brinton and
t I Agnes Wagner, the former giving the
1 | alarm. Miss Wagner was hemmed in
(Continued on Page 18.)
60,000 JAPS IX FRISCO
I By Associated Press
I San Francisco, Cal., April 19.—Cali
fornia has a Japanese population of
approximately 60,000, according to an
I advance estimate of the census now
j being taken and made public to-dav by
j the Japanese consul-general. The
' larger part of the Japanese is engaged
f | in agriculture.
5200.000 IX WHEAT BURNS
Baltimore, Md., April 19.—Fire of
' unknown origin destroyed the grain
1 ; elevator of the C. A. Oambrill Manu
facturing Company at Ellicott City,
■ i near here, to-day, together with 15,000
■' j bushels of wheat. The loss was* e.sti
' j maled at $200,000.
WONT OBSERVE
; ARBOR DAY BUT !
; WILL SET TREES
I Planting of 20000 Young Sliools
"All in Day's Work" of
Forester
i While Harrisburg will not officially '
observe Arbor Day. April 28, the park
■ and forestry departments will begin a
' lot of tree nlanting 'round about that |
1 time. It will be all In the day's work,
' 1 though.
On or about April 24 the park j
(Continued on Page 5.)
FIRE' SWEEPS BELGRADE
By Associated Press
Paris, April 19.—A destructive fire
. in Belgrade, formerly the capital of
■ Serbia, is reported in a dispatch to
the Matin from Bucharest. It is said
i 1 the eastern section of the city was
a'most destroyed. Several hundred
houses were burned and thousands of I
persons are homeless.
200 MEASLE CASES AT EXOLA
Enolu, Pa„ April 19. More than
j 200 cases of measles have been re
ported here during the last week, dur
ing investigations of George F. Miller, :
I health officer, in the State Department !
i of Health, who has been working al- J ]
jmost night and day, ' j.
STATE TROOPS
ARE CALLED TO
| QUELL RIOTERS
Hastings-op-Hudson Is Placed
Under Martial Law After
Strikers Attack Plant
USE GUNS AND STONES j
Fire in Air; Workers in Muni
tions Factory Demand
More Money
Hastings on the Hudson. N. Y. t April'
19. Martial law was declared in I
effect within tlie limits of Hastings'
village and State troops were called
upon for duty to-day after rioting had
assumed serious proportions among'
I strikers of the National Conduit and
Cable Company. A mob attacked the
company's plant with bullets and
| stones.
j The trustees of the village voted to I
i place the situation in the hands of 1
| Sheriff Weisendanger, who summoned I
the National Guardsmen at White |
j Plains, Mount Vernon and Flushing. !
i Mayor H. M. Glover, commanding the j
j First battalion of the Tenth regiment, '
j ordered three companies to be pre- i
I pared to move at any moment.
Sheriff Weisendanger suspended the |
i sale of intoxicants and closed all [
j saloons, and ordered 011 duty the!
j deputies withdrawn yesterday.
After stoning the shops the strikers
| and their sympathizers jostled train
I commuters in the streets and then!
| drew revolvers and fired into the air j
and at the plant. No one was injured I
! during this attack.
President J. 11. Goodwin of the vil
lage, explained that t he sheriff has j
been called, upon because the com- i
pany. wfHen manufactures munitions!
of war., had demanded protection for ;
1 its $2,000,000 plant and there arc only |
I six village officers.
GOVERNOR SICK
! AT WASHINGTON
BUT IMPROVING;
Suffered an Attack of Gall
i Duct Trouble on Return
From South
j Governor Martin G. Brumbaugh Is
ill at Washington, D. C„ suffering
| from some grail duct trouble, but is
Improving: and will return to the State!
| C apital within a few days according |
|to word Riven out at the executive |
| offices to-day. No information as to j
| whether the Governor is in a hospital!
or a hotel could be obtained, the offl-1
cials stating that the fact of his illness 1
iand that he was improving was all the
news at hand.
The Governor has been at one of the
southern resorts for several days ac
cording to what has been learned here
He left Harrisburg with Mrs. Brum
[Continued 011 Page 7]
I BOYS GIVE UHill COST <
OF LIVING ANOTHER BOOST
W I IO haul market baskets in the !
\\ csL t-.nd sprung a surprise on their
patrons tills morning, when tliev served 1
notice of an increase in pile,, for their '
woi k. and also that they bad formed ail- l
association and had a schedule of rates ,
effective, to-dav. Practically every boy ,
at tno marjeet this morning: asked the i t
regulation prices for delivery in vari- I'
i pus districts, • i i
ASK RETURN OF
SECRET PAPERS
AND CUSTODIAN
German Ambassador Demands
Release of Von Igel and 70
Pounds of Documents
THROW LIGHT ON PLOTS
Unique Problem Raised by
Arrest of Aid to Teuton
Military Attache
York, April 19.—Government
officials here faced a unique problem
to-day resulting from the demand of
the German embassy in Washington
for the release of Wolf von I gel and
I the return of documents seized in bis
[Continued on Page 11.]
D. A. R. Balloting For
Election of Officers
| Washington, D. C„ April 19
Daughters of the American Revolution
1 in annual session here were balloting
to-day for Hie election of officers other
I than president-general. < »fficers to be
J chosen were a corresponding secre
tary, ten vice-presidents- genera I, an
honorary vice-president-general and
an editor of the I), A. R. publication.
| Nominations of candidates were
made last night. The nominations in
elude:
I Corresponding secretary-general
J?",. D *'° e . A ; P-lodgett, of Grand
: Rapids, Mich., for re-election
Vice-president—Mrs. William Ged-
I ney. New Jersey.
I Honorary vice-president -general
Mrs. James Itoss Mellon. Pennsylvania
.Editor of llie I). A. It. Magazine—
, Mrs. Amos G. Draper. District of Co
lumbia and Miss Eliza O. Dennison,
1 Pennsylvania. '
VALLEY CO. HEARS
MEALS' PLAN TO
I RELIEVE TRAFFIC
Mayor Suggests Double Track
on Bridge and 8-Minute
Schedule
Recommendations for an eight
minute schedule for cross-river cars,
j with a double track on the Walnut
i street bridge section of Island Park
j were made by Mayor E. S. Meals this
| afternoon as part of plans for relieving |
i traffic congestion in Market Square in
! a conference this afternoon with C.
H. Bishop, superintendent of the Val
ley Railways Company, and C. H.
[Continued on Page ll,]
NEW *IOO OFFER FOR noDV
M. R. Troy, of Carlisle, brother of j
C. J. Troy, 1447 Berryhill street, who!
was drowned last Monday when he
fell from the new Cumberland Valley '
Railroad bridge into the river, has of
fered a reward of SIOO for the recovery
of the body of his brother. C. .1. Troy
wasf working at the time of the acci
dent In the employ of the Robert
(irayce Construction Company and all
first the company offered a ?100 re-i
ward, but later withdrew it, j'
GREAT PORT ON
BLACK SEA IS
TAKEN BY RUSS
Forlificd City of Trebizond
Captured After Vigorous
Pursuit of Turks
F L E E T HELPS ARMY
Czar's Forces Now Command
Greater Part of Coast Re
gion of Asia Minor
Petrograd, April 19. "Trebizond
has been taken," says an official re
port issued here yesterday. "The
united, energetic efforts of our Cau
casian army and Black Sea fleet
have been crowned by the conquest
of this fortitied town, the most im
portant position on the Anatolian
coast.
Pressed Turks l'lerecly
"Our valiant troops, after the san
guinary battle of the 14th on the
Kara Dere lliver (1 miles east of
Trebizond), pressed the Turks with
out respite and surmounted incredible
obstacles, everywhere breaking the
fierce resistance of the enemy. The
well concerted action of the fleet per
mitted the execution of most hazard
ous landing operations and lent the
support of its artillery to the troops.
"Credit for this fresh victory is also
partly due to the assistance given
the Caucasian army by the troops
operating in other directions in Asia
Minor. By tlieir desperate lighting
and heroic exploits they did every
thing in their power to facilitate the
task of the detachments on the coast."
Trebizond, from a military point of
view, commands the greater part of
the coast region of Asia Minor, which
is cut off from Armenia by a rugged
mountain barrier 8,000 to 9,000 feel
high, its possession leaves the llus
f('out (lined oil Puge 7]
KXI'IiOSIOXS SINK sllll'
By Associated Press
London, April 19.—A Lloyds dis
patch from Lisbon says the Norwegian
steamship Terje Viken sank on Mon
day in Cascae bay. fifteen miles west
of Lisbon, after three explosions on
board the vessel. The crew was saved.
I
I Harrisburg.—Rumors were current about the Capitol I I
! *!
II I was of such a character that he might require absolute rest ! 1
i I
that he had suffered from severe colds during the Spring. If i
his physical condition is as reported it might preclude him |
!ll from engaging in the rigors of a campaign and his with- ;] I
drawal, in the event of his illness being serious or prolong- • ft
ed, might occur before long.
ST. LAWRENCE GETS PERMIT \
Harrisburg.— n e Germ • i '
afternoon took out a permit to build its new church and
parochial school at State and Buttonwood st ;t of ' f
$40,000.
April 19.—Information was received from re- < |
liable sources to-day th >rated
i the commander of the submarine to have tor | >
pedoed the Sussex. It ->od Washington ha; been ( f
E informed of this development.
BRITISH GOVERNMENT FACES BREAK-UP ' '
I London, April 19. —1n the House of Commons to-day
| Premier Asquith stated that there were still some material ' '
| points of disagreement in the cabinet and if they were not
I settled the result must be the break-up of the government. 1
» ANSWER TO $6300 NURSING SUIT FILED "
r Harrisburg.—Answer to the suit brought by Mary * '
I ay Eckles against the estate of J. Harper Seidcl, was |
P filed late this afternoon. The plar , . ) from the
I estate /or "care" and "nursing" she gave Scidel prior to his
L death. J. Albert Seidel, executor, denied the statement o! ' '
the wo; an and in his answer says J. Harper Seidel had
L simply lived with the woman. c
W. M INGRAHAM FOR ASST. WAR CHIEF
L • •:V *"■— William M. Ingraham, former < '
F mnyor of Portland, Maine, has been selected by President
| Wilson for Assistant Secretary of War. The nomination « I
I was signed to-day. Mr. Ingraham will succeed Henry
' Breckinridge, who resigned with former Secretary Garrison. - i
MARRIAGE LICENSES I
( , h , p ,,u *" el M'm. Jlirxvlllf, uatl Kfllr Itutli Albrl»lii, lire lowi,- X
steif Torm H n<l Kntlp Bauer, Stcoltou.
•V." »• »lo<-k.er, Wnnhliitua. I>. iiikl Kilim Mar Kalnrly, Khrrh A
I Thouina .1. Iloflmiin, Kndera, ami .>lnry IS. Hoffman, .lackaion <o>vnahlp. J
18 PAGES CITY EDITION
SCOTT TO GET
ACCURATE DATA
ON SITUATION
ACROSS BORDER
Chief of U. S. Army Staff Or
dered to Procure Full In
formation For Use of Wa ; -
Department; Chase o
Villa at Standstill Whil*
Further Advices Ar r
Awaited
TROOPS MAY SOON
BE CALLED BAC
Agreement May Be Reache
to Withdraw Them as Mai
Purpose of Expeditioi
Protection of Border, He
Been Accomplished; Cross
Line Again, However, i'
Outlaws Move North
By Associated Press
Washington, ll>. C., April 11). •
Major-General Hugh L. Scott, chi
' of stuff of the army, will go to S;
Antonio, Texas, to-night by order
| Secretary Baker, in order to get it
curate information as to the situatk .
on the border and in Mexico.
Secretary Baker issued this stat ■
in cn t:
"General Scott, loaves for Sail A
tonio Iliis evening at 6:15 at my i
■ liiest. lie will spend several di l
with General Kiinston and retui
j Tills trip is made solely fur the. pi
, pose of getting as accurate inform
(ion as is possible for the use of t
department. General Funston i
mains in full charge of the affairs •
j liis department including the cxpec
! tion into Mexico. He has the ft
J confidence of the department and 1
[Continued on Page «.]
