Forecast Unsettled and colder tonight; Thursday (air. .
Temperature at 7 a. m., 65; at 2 p. m., 83.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
LEASED WIRE REPORT
Oklahoma city times
HOME
EDITION
VOL. XXVIII. NCfcUG.
(Publuhed by The Oklahoma Publishing Co.)
OKLAHOMA CITY, WEDNESDAY, APRIL li), VMC.
PRICe ONi CBNT
ON TRAINS FlVf CENTI
mm
mm
fUl
r7r7
a ii ran
MM11UII
HAVE deemed it my duly, therefore," the president told congress today, he had informed the imperial German government, "that if it still is its pur
pose to prosecute its relentless and indiscriminate warfare the government of the United States is at least forced, to the conclusion that
thorp i lint, iinn rnuv it run i.iirsn: and that tinlrss tho imperial (lonnan government should now immediately declare and affect abandonment ot its
present methods of warfare against passenger and freight carrying vessels, this government can have no choice but to sever diplomatic relations altogether."
"I
Germany Must Stop U-Boat War on Ships Now, or Break with U. 5.
President Paints
oat Warfare
Nation's Chief Is !
Humanity's Voice, !
; World-Wide Today !
Mi Barbarism
President Reviews Long Series of Subma
rine Outrages, Gives Congress Text of
Strong Demand but Suggests no Ac
tion to Lawmakers.
WASHINGTON. April I!). President Wilson strxnl hefore'
thi congressmen and sejattor of t h Tinted States in joint
aession in the houv chamber thin afternoon and told them that
he had sent hii ultimatum to Germany that would result in the
severing of diplomatic relations between the two countries un
less dermany agrees to stop her submarine warfare against
passenger snips ami ireigni vessels immediately.
No time limit was put in the demand.
No action was suggested to congress.
The inference was that all of the future is up to the kaiser.
The tirrwhli-tit miIiI
"lieiitleineii nf the ouicri-k. ; A altnntl.iii Inn nrlen In the fnroUn rein
tlnna f flu- iiiiinln nf will. ti li l my I'lnln ilni 0 Inform inn ior frniiklv.
Il will he re.ii II n I Hull In rohrtiart. !i.1. ln lnit!iil l.rriniiti irm eminent
niiiiiniMil II liili-iitluii In I r imi I (he nltr- iirri.iiii.lliii: i.rrnl llrltnln Mini
Irt'liiinl ms iinl.rne. nltliln tin- enl i.f war ami to ili'Mmy nil nn r. limit lil
imtii'il In IN ennnlr Unit inlxht he fiiiimt within Nov part nf Hint imrtinti nf
till' lilcti h-iih mikI IIinI It nriie. nil eoli cf neutral a pell ft- nf holtlkrerpnt
iifnrlili in keep mil i.f tin- nnlrri II ha. lima reiTtl.el, nr el titer them
Ml their rll
Early Proteat Against Policy.
"The KiiWTiitni'iit if Iho t iillil Sii' ramr-th ,nli'tp. I ii..), I lir 1
tltMl tlllll Hill II Mill, ... nl. I imi Ik- tn I llli, mt tlip ,M, thill ilTtllllltT fif
Irnaa mill palpal. In l..lntl.i-. i.f the m i.f miilnii.. .nrtl.iilrh If iil.iiintliio
crafl nere l.i Im otnpli.ioil m IN IiMi iniii'iiN Iiiiimiiii. Ii h the rnh". iin-vrlhoil
ttv Ihnl Inn. tnli". f..ninl. .1 ut ..n r Iim iplt". i f hniiniiilly nml elnlIMiei f..r the
.mli Hull ,.f I In- llti-a of i-,.lll.lt.illN III Mil. ...III. I II.. I III the lull. Ill' i.f III.' ae
11' lr.M' . I It tl.el
Protest Bated on Old Law.
"Il .n,- In .rntft mi I ho tiri'iiii.l that -inti. i.f iieiittnl natlniinllli ami ;
xeo. ,.f neutral i.n milili ni.iil.l In. rH.-., i,, evaiiilnnthin nml liitcli rnMi' ;
rlk hihI Hint int rlclil In il.i o mn .ml i.f tin' ilk'h i urnIicI thi-lr n nr i
In rNni' tln'iii In ni h rNlt niiilil Imifiilh In- h-mmIihI .y hiiv iM-lllci-rrnt it"! - j
Vriiiiicnl. 'I In- Inn nf imtlntin in tln. niiiii r. iimi wliMi tlic iiiitiTtiini'iil nf
tho I IiIIinI SlntiHt dnwil IN .ili"-t l lint i.f roii'Ml nrlulll nr fiillll'tril ll.n i
inoroly nrliltrnrv .tlin i.li' ! up . ihiim-hiIiiii. It N hnwil. mi tho innlrnry,
liHin ttmtilfckt ntiil liiiTntho .iln. i.li-. nf Iniinniiltv nml lm Imig liooti i.tnli.
tUlioil th tho iirmnl nml y the i'irr wiil nf nil iMIIumI iintlnn.. I
Raqueilt Go Unheeded. I
"Nnl ItlMniultng tho rnnirnt ptnlrt nf nur .ioniiiii'iit tho luiwrlnl tirr
mnn K..i riinii'iil l i iht iirm'oilml In rnrry mil l lit imll. j- It tin -I ntitmiitiiwl I
It i'Xiti'ril (In- nia Hint tho tinnier lnvnoi. nt nny rnlr tho iIiiiiihn tn
lli'lllMll . N. nnulil h ti'ilmi'il In n 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 II III hi' Itlo Ililrintlntl4 Hlilili II
linil lni'il tn lit mtl'tnnrliip niiiiiiinniliT,
I. ufl I
" AW
,-r--;4
wA
& if
I "i
I'rr-ltlrnt Wwxtrow WIImmi.
ARMY IN MEXICO
IDLY BIDES NEXT
DIPLOMACY MOVE
Europe's Strong
Man Confronted
By New Dilemma
General Belief Is German Sit
uation Will Bear on Pur
suit Continuation.
TROOPS GATHERED TO
GO ON OR COME HOME
Outlying Detachments Have
Been Drawn in; Withdrawal
Is Main Border Topic.
W HMMN'iTnN. April H. -Count
Itrrnnlof ff. th Hornimi mrii1nr, con
trtnt nh Hwri-tnrY Ijnuln nt II 1
o'rln.k Mrlnf mil v mnrnlni. Th !)
rti.nt mi m't nl lh mrMilor'
Il wi rrvli1 thut lh mhMilnr
nil to thi mtr dfwr1mrnt lint to rlin-
una Oil. miliiiinrlno lliintlnii tint to
innl for imil ilm:iiiil fm th tiurn of
la imtii hlih itrimitiiinit of Jmlli'
Hirnm rivil fnim Wolff Von IfH, prl
vnl i.rrrliM m i i.inin Von I'm-rn, I ho
nml no-liri'il tho Ki.xrrllllli lll nf tho i . ,,i,.i,. in.,. .iu, h in Nr York
I nllAI hlntiK llmt It ttnnlil InKo pvory mililo iit. nntli.n. IhiIIi in rni.i tho irriU,
rlilhN nf noiitrnlN nml In Mifi idinril thr Mm- nf linti ntiiluilntit T't .'"i ni. ! fr.li-ml ntrntt
Tllrnlh) in thr OOI. O i.r nur Mn iksi.
(.itlnrr nrrtvmrv nf I'M't'llll ll'li von
lAtliwii'V llmrr II iH, unlit Imlnv.
Vnn lirl In nt UtTlv unilrr l.'dniHi
.il A limrlnii on Imi ra la art lo,
Hill Tiioailiy Knli'inl pioMrntom -arilpit
Hint h' mild hr rrlra.rd only
i oii Inalriirtinnn from lh uttoiTiry grn
ml In W iililnin
Ruthlen War Carried On.
"WIlHt nillllllh linl'in'linl In tlir irnr ulilrh lino vllnv I'lniixsl Ima klmwn I I'aiipii. rriallnl lirrinnn nillllnrv t
thai llnaM- Ih.Imh ai'iTO lint lnsllfl,Hl. IIiimi n.iirmuv liisiiwnlllilo nf Imliitf fill I lull. HI ""t Iw I'tuiin'.l nniln-r will
t I. In .nrntnii.r nf Iho mlln nf Milmmrliin wRrfnro nunlti-l tho . miiiiii r.r 1 11" I""";""' " v" "r hl" ';
i. . ... ' i i .... .... liK1 nartli II.Htlmi In tho Mi-Haml iiml
nf ll niUorrli-., Ilm niiiihiiiiitiI nml ritlorotl ttii dy I In- lni'ilnl linrmnii ,", ....ini t nto-.t Miain
p'nriiioirni in in.iiio ni i nr vni'iiin (iriiiii ni in urn ri iiini'iii . mr rwflnllMlll
rn nf (twttnn tninVrw terl hate altarliril ntrrrhiuil lil with Rrralrr and
traMer artlill), not mil) upon the tilth ummHling t.mil llrilain and
IrHaml, htK whfretrr Ihejr roulrl fnratinlrr them tn a way I ha! ha inwn
more and nmrr nKlilr, ntore and more InrllwHmlnale a Ihr nHMtllt hair
nr hj. Iran and lew Wninl nf mtralnU nf nny Kind, and hate nVllirred
their allark wllhntit rnmntntrtlnn ataln'l om-I of firry nallnttaltly and
katmd an ryrry ort nf rrrand.
Warning Lacking in Many Catei.
i "os,. ,.f unit ml n tirrlilp. I'lon hwm'I nf ihnIiI. ImhiihI frmn lion
trnl mrt In tiontrnl mtt. llno ln'ii ilo'lrnioil. nlntil with ool, nf N-lllui r.it
ontirrlili. In nui.tuiitu Im ii inIiik iiiiihIhti, Sniiii tlini tho nioo linnttiii'ii
atlnrkoil lino Imh'Ii wiiriiiil nml iitiiiiiinni In mirrrmli-r In fnro In-lng fln'il mi
or lnrnMiii : wiiioIIiiim (no-M'iiirrr nr m-nn hnvn Imoii vmn lifii tho mr
nn'iirlly of Im'Iiik nllnwotl tn Inko tn Hip alilin lt l.fnro alio una "lit In tho
hnltntn. Hill ngriln nml nitnln im wnrtilnii lin Iximi glion; tin oiiii' t-ion In
the IiIm hunt a illnftrtl In Hunt mi lnl
Attack Not Reasonable.
"Wlint IIiIh (inoniiiM-iit fnrtnu tiniat Iih.-ii m lini'liir.! Trnfoly m
fnllimrxl trnitoil) mi (ho Mn In mull fii-Mmi. wltli inh altomlnl rlroiiui
itiiiTii n In niRke II imlr nliloni tlmi warfare nf nwh a Mtrl, It warfare It
tan be, raimnt he earrttrf an wllhnwt Ihr imwl aalpalnV vlnlnllnn nf the dtrtal
aiwe t nm ami nttmanitjr.
W.ISIIIViiTcN. April 1 In. ilon of
tin- U nhn.t"ii rr.M inni'iit ui"i Hi"
..iill..n a to xhfih.r th" Anioilmn
Im. r. h .lining X .I i lmll hi- ro.-M"l "r
riiitiiri'. tm furtli"! nrMiinn 'i-'lii"a-ll
await oil lln- rrn-l.t of furlll'r l"
port, finin iitiprlrnn fnrrn In M"in-o
t-ii.-r I Kiinrinn alan ha nitniiltt"1
lonKlhv itii.il hi tin ailintlim Mn1 1
llllnn.it a.ra from lilm tr nioin"n
tartH frt,A V-anlill" liwln al lnn ar
thi the ilir for Villa l at laml
mill Ma)"r Cirnrral Hiidh I. H. "It. rhif of
taff of lha arrrv, wltl fn lo Han An
tonio, Tiaa. WVdnoMiy nlBtit In- nrdr
of Karrotary tlakir In nriW to tt a"
rural Information aj to tha altuall.'n
on th horitrr ami In M"lon.
Miaalsn la Imporiam.
H"i rlar lUkrr wonlil not dlni
lnraL yroit mlnon It a um..
iwnr. that hla rrport, aftrr tho nn-
llrfnrr lf1i lionrral Kilnaton. Will '"
rr towam notartnininn in" coma" i"
Miraii".t In MMirn,
It la known tntl lionrtal Kunnion liaa
noon uralna- tho dniarlmoiit that h l" I
ormltto,t to ihl.'t hla liailiuart"r and
tho hnriirr haao In nrdor lo ahorlon hla I
lino of rmnmiitilratlon Th" doparlmont
haa not thiu far apprmod Iho na
lion although tho rooiifit a ho Into
tho rahlrot Tnooday.
Th arnoral hollof hor l th it tho itor-
I man nil nation ..iild liavo pnmo offnl
Von Bcrnstorlf Fails So Far ! ;;: ""IZT ZXZ
l-ilntod out that Hi" Iroopa in M".o
would ho nood"d al homo It waa mi
("tod that. Inaaniurh a th" loaln l"it
imao of Iho oinoritllon -Hi" prntoi-Unn nf
tho hordor haa lioon aoromplloh'd an
agrormont for lha lthriraal niUht lo
roarhod aillh HonotMl I'arrania on Iho
tMtala that If Villa nr M bandlta acaln
had norlhuard Aniorlran tronpa ould
again rrnaa tho International lino
Concentration la 1 Fact. ,-
rnnflimaitlon of itwt that tho Amor
Iran oipoilltlonary f.r.-o aa holng rnn
rontratod nt throo point a In Mrilrn apo
rtallv for tho lth'lrawl of troop or th
organliatlon of a now and mnro Mton
alvo rampalgn woa rorolvo.l In Kl Taan
from Moth an aonrroa
II h an Id that Honor al Oratilng had
tthdian all nntlylng ilotn. hmonta
aouth of NnmliiilHi and that In tho
nolghhnrhonil nf J.1"" nion oro mmpo.t
at Han Antonio, loo nilloa woat of
riiathulrla. hlr and that n for.o oailmatod
at a I moat itoiit.l thia nutnhor aa holng
rnnrontratod noar Nainlmilpa
Jj
I
Last Word of 0.
IWI3TI I IPIll nAl III
IMUU I1IWUII UUUI II
Oermanv Insists
VON IGEL HELD
DESPITE DEMAND
to Secure Prisoner or Pa
pers in Bomb Plot Case.
Von
Wilson's Ultimatum Now on Way to
Kaiser; Sinking of Unarmed Merchant
Vessels by U-Boats Must Stop Imme
diately or Break Is Certain.
WASHINGTON, April 10. President Wilson told con
jtresH, RssemMed in joint nession shortly after 1 o'clock thin
nfternoon. he had (riven Germany irrevocable notification that
the United States will break off diplomatic relations if her
illegal submarine campaign is continued.
i Immediate Reply Demanded.
j A note America' last word, practically an ultimatum
,and demanding an 'immediate reply presumably was in the
i Berlin office as the president was speaking. U was dispatched
last night in accordance with the president's plan to have it
I before the German government at the same moment he was
addressing the American congress.
Congress Not Asked to Take Any Step.
The president asked no action w hatever of congress. Ha
himply informed it of the accumulation of facts proving that
Germany's assurances to the I'nited States are tieing violated;
AAlirfi1 AIITfl riTC at tnp fM1',mHr'ne campaign despite the earnest protest of
LMNrKJJN lAlt'te '-'m,l'' "l" innp conducted with renewed vigor in
UUIil IIWI1 IV I nl k i contravention of all the laws of nations and humanity and that
he means to sever relations unless it is brought within the law.
Diplomatic history of the world shows that such a course is
almost certain to be followed !v war.
Germany Must Bend.
The president's note and his address to congress are final.
They mark the trend of diplomatic negotiations. A contin
uance of the long-standing friendly relations, the president
Imade clear, depends alone upon Germany's conduct.
Laming to See Bernitorff Thursday.
Swrotnrv IjuiIiik t'olny Itifiirttt"! I'nntil nti llorn-lnrff. the lirrnmn m
.aai..r. Hint ho no ron.l) tn 'lln" tho aiihiimrltio Ittiiitlmi with hltu ii'l
entiforonii' .ri..nl. will ! atrHticiil fur imnnrmn l".orlnv Siarotairf
I Jl lltHK Itlfnrtlioil tlllll ho rnlllil ll.it lllwllx tho xltl.Jia t.
The ti xl nf tho unto tn I 'ritinii v will In kIioii mil l i tho "Into ili'imilnii'til
prnl.nl. Iv for iitlillnitlin tntnnrrim nmr nli.ii
Women Swarm Galleries.
William II, t mnoTor of (irrtnan).
ASQUITII TODAY
English Commons Await Anx
iously Premier's Decision
on Conscription.
I.iiNi.i prt I" In'o'oal In Writ
noart.1 a a-.airn nf tho hnuoo of rntn
nmtia la aa koon aa rrr loaplto mrr
n'flil riinmra of . truro wlilrh tl torn
pmarili avoid tho rahtnot roa'irnatlna
frooly proti'lof Tuontay pnliti.iil ton
alon la (tt til a- uto, otulli.( I'rtinlor Aa
qultha atatornont on cnnir'.pl.m h.-h
apprara tn .o tho nxit of th Klinlo
truiil.lo
In Iho h.ni'O if rniiininna Wo.lnoalai
Protnnr .o.iilth rtatrit that tho.n oio
atltl annio inalorlal mlnia of iliaaffioo'
nionl In Iho rahtnot ami If Hir orr not
arttlnt, l.a toa.ili imi.t .o Iht lir.ak lip
i.f Iho (.itrtntin nt
Alth.mah ll.o ahini-t . in a..imi
Tho hoilof that tho Amoriian tnp 1 mnr.- than thro,- hnir XX .iliifilni
aro almut In loavo Moon la wliloapronil .a in,ai.r i, ... nat ,.r...piit i.i
lainnnir tho Moilrana In Juaroi and haa . .,r. niiiino i.i.,hl. tii and hrn Ih
i iioiio,iiiniio in iho nun. i -iiiih rn". iii!fi 1110 iit.inniiii' sniiorira ni ill
j hniio Wi'inrti ritlol III I lie imhllo i;aiirli. lo Minn lnit men flinlliig
. 'ln.". In tile l liiitnlti-l vii I - XI r XX IUi.ii an. In the riir irnlliTy In
tho i ahlnet lurlx note Jv. n lill h l.milli!. HiiKor. Il'.ilt.'tl Hli. I WII-mim, Allnr
iii'.v I oiiornl t.n w.'fi nml l'.ttiui-.tor tloiiornl 1 lu r .ti
1 The Hio iri".ient nn. I M-miinri nrtho'l nl I.' ."nt in Ink nml nianhoil
'In iliiithlo file ih. ii the m nlrr nl-le niriiiUt. i.f tho Ii.him. fl-ltitf nml remain-
et
nniplololv i lianard tho attttudo of Iho fnnif
ponplo hn, aftor Iho I'arral inrMont, ja. n mprlliit
lava maiKoi indiiattmia nr nnatinty
ard Amorlrana.
1 I lllli -tntl'llllk' lllilll Hint Wete - :1 t.-i I
President It Cheered.
Willie the M'tnitnr- wete tiiklnc their onl l't".elil
nninii.... ni-i ir.m.-r no(i 111,11., Il. v I..r. LI I...I- ...I. f.l.l till ..... l.-l
Iinthe, 1,1 i-vl.-nr hla . .... .... ... .....r ....... ... . ... . . ... . Li
alalomonl mil H Tuoa.Nv noil. i,iln;'"' -I-""'"' - Tl i
that Hiilo. an ioon,rnt out. I t.- TeMelit elileriil the i IihiiiImt Jtt-1 liefiife I n'rlia k. aoiinliira re.re.ilallo,
reorhi-d tho taoiio ,.iil. t,r a l.i. aku. nhlnel nml (inlli rli". r.e An i.iill.iil-l i.f H. lnn.o i;ae vnv tu Inml i larer
Tho nno )oar-an.l a half-nl.l rhlld nf
Mr ami Mr Sharp In I'a, Kliitiin foil
from ih aornnd alnrv nf tho Mharn roal.
Whatever the tl lt-m.Mi mnn Intend. ni f Hin'dom thl mnrnlni lo the pavoiiiont im-
dornoalh th lndn
Baby Falls
Two Stories;
No Ihjuries
iinp-riai i.ornian inioriimont, it haa maniri'-lli imri liiiinoe fur It tn
kooi ani'll liielliiala i.f nttm k tiimn Iho i-ntiinieree nf ll nn iiiIik ulthlii the
Mititl nel h either Hie rona.ui nr the lientl of nishklml
Cite German Promitaa.
"Ill Kehntsr) nf tli ireoii xoar Iho Iiii-iIhI i.ornian nvrriiinoiil In
fnrniH I hla gnurnniotit nml the nthor tiontrnl eiiiernnionia nf the Hnthl Hint
II Nil renanti In Ix'lloii. thai the unvrtiinienl nf tiront HiIImIii linil nrnnxl nil
mon hanl ola nf llrlthh nner-hli nml had alven litem w ret nrdera tR nt
lr tn atilniiarliio nf the rnorut tliov niltfhl rireminter iian llir ena nml thai
Die Imperial tirrmsii m oriinioiil frit jimiifirxl In the i lti titn-laiiitv. n troalliii
Rll IrronhNiilninit nf Iwlllforenl niiorhli ia sinlllair trowla nf war ohhh
Il xxmilil hare the rlatht In ilixtmjr wlthniil riiln The la nf tiatlntia liaa
hull rernttiUoil iho rivhl nf men hanimrti in mrr.r nrrtia fur pfntoi linn ami tn
Ihom In rol alia. k. Ilimiiti In liar I hem In am h Hn fltiKlatniH, at their
via rlok; Imt la laiirlal lionnan (nir-rnment ilalimil the tlnlil In m tin
(t'nttaa m fart Tar )
A mlrarlo aavrd Ilia rhlld frnm iloalh
nr danaornna hiirta Whm dmtnr ar
rlvod lho tallod In llnd anv toiiioa ttrnkon
nr that lh Infant a tii)iiiot In anv
niannor
Tho hahr aa at, hlna toonia and
a nl n aa that pd In front nf th hnuao
. .... . .... ... .... . ,.
I yirn iiii" a.-, inrniai 'on iirn , ip
anpimao.1 that Iho ttindnw aaa raiaod and
Ih aerern taoionod, hut In amn manner
th lattor hoinnio unhrmVod. allnaloa
Ih rhlld tn fall nut.
Tho fnlhor nf th Ik hi la mpln)od In
Ira nt th I'aiklni plnnti
Where U. S. Army
Measures Stand
HAY HOUSE HILL
ProvltlM tor BNri ttrtngth t'mf
c tao.ono.
CHAMBERLAIN
SENATE BILL
Provide fnr ragular army an rrv
f million mn.
rrdtral volunttar r. of HI 000
man.
r(1rallid National Guard of MO.000
man.
Creation of ach-wi and colltg rnrv
of fMI.000.
Appropriation of llt.000.000 for con.
Irurtion of govarnmant giant for
proturtion of mtra b ud In
maniifarturlng ammunition.
Provision "r vocational tducation of
niiatad mon.
Croatian o a Na'lnnal Onard aoctien
In th gantral Haft of Ih army.
Provlaion for fadtral pay of all Na-
tlonal Ouard offtor abov Ih rank
ot captain.
COMPROMISE
Cnnfaronr of houo and aonat will
b ctld Immtdiatoly to eoctd n
tubatitut bill.
nf Iho ri'alitli.n a"ornn-oni
Boy, Trying
to Ride Log,
Is Drowned
Th Ninth t'anadian rlatinrd ahnihrr
vl. Iim al n.o.n lolny hrn l .toaid
I Khnlihoii, : oai "Id I'll min Iho
I at roam and a ilmviiird ,
Tho llttlo foiw. in rnnipany ollh hla
hmthor. ard and aotrral noighh-r-I
hum! ho). -m plalt'f along th hank
jnf Iho olrrain mar Iho Hhann.'n hmnr.
'"! Kiat t'hlikaaa Tho .Hall.r Shall
nmi hnv atoppi'd onto a lo tl.ioilng noar
I tho hank 1 1n ! tuinoil. Him lug M
' rd Inlii tho oalot
ino of Iho h.na In Iho g i ni
'in tho rrrno nd hanlrd Iho , hlld tn
thr ahnlo l.cl aid Oaa drad
Tho h.d a takon In thr In lno of
lOdoaid miplalhrr. Tm li, at
j Knot I 'lit, kaoaar
I Tho alrpfallnr lald tn a romrlor
i fnr Th Timr that llila aa th lli-l
: Iim th to.) had ovot gi.n I.i tho hank,
nf tho 1 1 01 and It a mil) ho, anao
iidhrr ho- a hA-l alaito.1 In that dlrMlinn
jlhat the LI tie I'llu Inlluoid.
Iitat Ititrlng llil- ileiiiiiti-.tratlini the i.r.-.. nt -U.- hamla with tho ! kef
ami Iho .i-l.li iil ami then Im.oiI tn the atnl'lHi!r
Audience li a Serioua One.
'Iho .ii-l.lriit U'knii hl a. I, In aUin; -l..li ami .ll-lln.tlv Ilia inha
aa In nr. I tht..in;lii.iit the ilminlM t '
A the ii'ih lil Ih CiIII the . li i nf tin' llliiin -iil liiarlne i nill.iltll,
(hi re a Im .li tn.iii-t tut..) tn I'limtnnlr hW rlln nf Iho .a.tlfl.-e nf Amorl
an IIm- Not a ittml wa lira 1. 1 nlxno the af".tilfiit ti.hr he .ko thai
until l.iillatila
l ior) In n. I Ixiin fnrwaril a- tho ,iol.nil In.ll. at,. I that lie a
I'tnai hltin the keitnde nf lil lit. ri:-. Iho aniinimi nn Hi nf tho -.nrar he III
Hirile
Silence Tenae at Clime. .
XXIieti lie .ri.iiiniii..'. the oi't'U nf the iiltlniHtiim OoilarliiK that mlr,
t.i'iinalii ahmthl linnieillnlelv ielare ami rff I an al.ninli.iiineiil ..f lnllaM-rlitt
Inale aiiliinritliip naifare, li. gmertitnoiit i'iil. haio tin itinh lull In arrer
iili'lnalh' rnlnll.Hi". there wa llll tin ih..U.liiraliMI. null R telip alienee ami
a refhatlnli nf the grailtt nf III" Unhl-.
Mln tl lie mm lmle.1 llh riiirmolnn i.f In that l.ermanr niih an got
In aiort a r-'itri'ttahle hrenk llh Amerha. llie a-tiihly hfi.ko Intn rhror
Speech Fifteen Minutei Long.
II a I II n i h k hrn the irehi til . mi. Ii.li-. lie hail 4rn juat
flftii'ii tiiliinlea A.imio "tarlnl Imtii the ilrim. lall. .o ami lha tonihlli git
nirllil" r- then J..IIH-.I III Itein.a talh' lln lnU l. U tan tlln tn Iholr fool atel
kin, ti iho entire n-rinl.laiio aa atamlliig The au'lnnao hIoI 'rliaa a tiilu
tile, ai.il then n- the .ril.riil i... nnl nf the iliani'ef. illnl gap).
Spenket t'lntk ile lare the ..lnt "l..n at an nnl ami the oenatnr f1l"l
mil The iiallerlea iiih kll note il,-a rtiil Sa-aker I lark rfene. Hip ailrlrpaat
tn the furelitn affnir ii.iiiiiiliie ami the h..u-. rixiitiml It tognlar Inwlnraay,
Clark and Mltcbln ,i,,ld lk' a id HproMllvo PVaml,
Pfuo I Cemmoot. rkalfn.n nf th fooolgn affair mm mil
Pivakor I 'lark and teinnriatlr Ua.ti lo "I think that It H mt llb lb
kmhln dMllnod in innimrnl nn th ad-apprnl nf mnaroaa and Ih rmjntrr."
droa 1h and thv rioird In il Mann Tblnk Mo
It fiilli hofnr amg anMhti Phjtd B Mtwlrgl.
"Ih arndlng nt a nnl to ioiman "I 'hlnk thl gnrnmt aaimilA tap
wa aa mild a i'titieli a th naiunt i MuUab" bald IUpttbUaR Laxilot aUPP,
