VOL. XXVIII. MANNING, S. C., WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 1916.
T BE_CONTINUE!
PENDING. OUTCOME OF DIPL(
MATIC.RELATIONS WITH CAR
RANZA GOVERNMENT.
NO NEW ORDERS ARE ISSUEl
Carranza Military Forces Must Pros
Their Ability to Stop Brigandage
on the Border States.
Washington.-The United States
prepared to treat with General Ca
ranza as proposed in his note for t
withdrawal of American troops fro:
Mexico. Pending the outcome of t
diplomatic negotiations, however, t
status of the expedition will remai
unchanged and the pursuit of Vil
continue.
This -was the situation official
stated after President Wilson and h
cabinet had considered the ne
phases of the Mexican problem rai
ed by General Carranza's communic
tion. Secretary Lansing said he wE
prepared to take up the matter wil
the de facto government, but wont
'iot indicate when a reply might I
sent. Secretary Baker said no ne
orders had been sent to General Fun
ton and that none were under co:
templation.
Both Secretaries said there he
been no change in the policy of t
Administration which prompted ti
pursuit of Villa.
Secretary Lansing would not s4
whether he was prepared to negotial
with the de facto government for tl
possible fixing of a date for wit]
drawal of American troops. He ind
cated that the time element of an
agreement would be based on whi
developed in the pursuit of the bang
It.. As the Administration's attitud
Is understood here, a satisfactory di
mnonstration by the Carranza militar
forces of their ability to stop all.bril
andage in the border states would se
the object of the American expeditio
accomplished.
Senator Stone, chairman of the Fo:
eign Relations Committee, is thougi
to have voiced the Administratio
. view to the senate, speaking after
conference with Secretary Lansing.
"The problem confronting this go
ernment," the Senator said, "is ho
long it would be wise to keep an e:
peditionary force in Mexico. If w
adhere to our policy towards Mexic
we cannot keep the army there. '
my mind the oily a'ternative to wit]
drawing the trocps sooner or later
intervention."
' ENATE VTE 43 TO 22
FOR BIG NITRATE PLAN*
- Smith Amendment Carries $15,000,0(
For Government's Proposed Ventur
Washington.-The senate adoptc
the army bill amndment of Senat<
Smith, South Carolina, appropriatix
$15,000,000 for a government nitra1
plant. The vote was 43 to 22.
This action disposed of the secot
big fight in the Senate over the senal
substitute for the house army reorga
Ization bill.
Senator Smith's amendment pr
vides for the sale of Panama Can;
bonds for raising the' required $15,004
000 and the president is authorized1
designate not more than fiye wate
power sites for power plants. Wh4
products of these plants, which will1
operated exclusively by the gover
ment ,are not needed for manufactu
c.f munitions of war the surplus cou
be disposed of by the secretary of w.
for fertilizer.
RUSSIANS CLAIM DEFEAT
OF GERMANS IN EAS
Except for the artillery wings
the contending armies there has be(
no fighting at any point on the lor
front in France and Belgium.
Several days now have elapsed sin<
-the\Germans launched a heavy atta<
an 'the positions in dispute befoi
Verdun, but their artillery has co:
tinued vigorously to shell the LeMo
flomme sector northwest of Verdt
and the second line positions of ti
French to the east of the Meuse.
In the Argonne the French contimi
to operate with their guns against Ge
man points of vantage and in the r
glon of Pont-a-Mousson they has
shelled convoys of Germans.
On the Russian front the Germar
essayed attacks between Lakes Sve:
ten and Ilzen, but were repulsed wit
heavy casualties. In Galicia, sout:
east of Boutchache, the Germans als
took the offensive, but here a~gain wei
repulsed. The Russians claim the ca:
ture in the Stripa region of a Germa
position and the putting down of cout
ter-attacks launched with the inte
tion of recapturing It
A new bank Tias b~een formed
Estill with $25,009 capital.
About 100 lawyers were present 1
8harleston at the annual meetingC
the State Bar Association.
by a vote of 36 to -> the taxpayer
of Mt. Andrew school district, Dillo
county, changed the special levy fc
School purposes of their district froI
* 4 'mills to 6.
The Columbia fire insurance agent
have organized committeeE to mak
Dreparation for the proper cntertair
tnent of the South Carolina Underwrl
brs' association which meets In Colun
bia May 19.
Correct the Habit Habit.
The surest way to bring on premne
ture old age 's to get !rto a rut. O
the other hand, th'e surest way'
uvert old age is to get o': t of the ru
if you desire to keep young. do :
rnake your habits hard and fast,c
y'our arteries will likewise becomee
Govern your habits; do not let ther
rule you. Just toshow them that the
de not, order them to- break ranl
rom tima to tine.-Brain and BrawI
VILLA IS AGAIN
1s REPORTED DEAD
DE FACTO GOVERNMENT SETS
OUT TO PROVE DEATH OF
BANDIT LEADER.
D ARE !NCLINED TO ACCEPT
e Reports from Chihuahua Are Regard
ed as Confirmatory By American
Officials at Ed Paso.
is . El Paso, Texas.-Francisco Villa is
r. deat .am- his body, disinterred some
[e ,days after hi> burial. is in possession
of the Carranza troops. according to
a series of telegraphic messages re
1 ceived in Juarez by the Mexican offi
Svials.
For more than a week reports that
Villa had died from wounds have
been current here and in Juarez. Lat
i est accounts were- the most circum
W stantial and apparently reliable yet
received. They were accepted with
a reserve. by American officials includ
t ing General Bell, but Mexican officials
h expressed confidence in their reliabil
The dispatcher of the Mexican
Northwestern Railroad at Juarez re
, ported to General Gavira, Carranza
commander at Juarez, that he had
heard a conversation on the telegraph
wire to the effect that Villa's body was
d in the hands of the Carranza troops.
General Garvi: notified Consul
eGarcia here w' I messages to
the telegraph at Madera
e and Cushihuir :h- ng for con,
e firmation. The -. and Cusihuir
e ahic answered .-.rming the report
and stating the body was being taken
to Chihuahua.
The telegraph operator at San An
i tonio, 50 miles west of Chihuahua,
e telegraphed Consul Garcia that Villa's
body was in possession of Colonel
Carlos Carranza, nephew of General
Carranza, who was taking it in a spe
e ial train to Chihuahua.
n 1J VILLA IS DEAD
U. S. WILL WITHDRAW.
ti Washington Makes Unqualified State
n ment When Report of Bandit's
a Death is Heard.
Wash'ngton.-American troops will
r- be withdrawn from Mexico if Fran
cisco Villa is dead. Administration
- officials made this unqualified state
e ment, commenting on reports from
) Mexican sources that the bandit's body
C had been discovered and was being
1' taken to Chihuahua City my special
is train.
The State and War Departments
were without confirmatory advices on
the subject from American sources.
r Reports reaching El Paso and other
-border points were forwarded for in
0 formation, but neither American con
sul nor military authorities in Mex
d ico were heard from.
~Every message received was closely
8 scrutinized at the State Deaprtment
e and sent to the White House. In
some quarters there was a disposI
d tion to credit them, despite the fact
e that border reports generally have
- been viewed with much suspicion
since the pursuit began.
,.AT VERDUN WAR MUST
I END SAYS THE EMPEROR.
r.Paris.-A semi-official note just Is
sued reviews the recent operations
e about Verdun and gives an order of
a. the day of General Petain, command
ring at Verdun, in praise of the resist'
'ance of the French troops to the re
tr cent offensive of the Germans. The
note concludes:
I"The Emperor some days ago re
viewed one of the divisions engaged
T in the region between Douaumont
and Vaux and it was there that he
said: "The war of 1870 was decided
n at Paris. The present war must end
at Verdun.' "
General Petain's order follows:
e "The ninth day of April is a glori
Sous day for our arms. The ferocious
- assaults of the soldiers of the Crown
nPrince have been everywhere broken.
rt infantrymen, artillerymen, sappers
and aviators of the Eleventh Army
twere rivals in heroi:zm. The honor
to all.
L"The Germans, without doubt, will
r- attack again. Let every one work
' and watch to obtain the same suc
ecess as yesterday. Have courage. We
will get them."
2i-U. S. MOTOR TRUCK TRAIN
h ATTACKED BY BANDITS.
0 San Antonio. Texas.--General Per
e shing reported to headquarters that
a motor-truck train carrying aero
planes was attacked. by 40 bandits. 15
- miles north of Sate~vo. The Mlexicans
were driven off and one of thuir num
ber was killed.
tLewis W. Parker Dead.
Greenville.-Lewis W. P'arker~. or
ganizer and former president of the
Parker Cotton Mills comnpany and for
merly president of the American Cot
ston Manufacturers' association. diecl
rat his home on east Washington stret
rin Greenville. Mr. Parker had been in
failing health for some time. Hie was
a figure of national prominence in the
manufacturing world, rising rapidly
after leaving the practice of law and
enteri' The cotton mi!l field. H~e was
affiliated with other great i~nntries
Hamlet in South Africa.
It cani hardly be expected th: rs
impressionism" will be cionfined to pic
tures in the future. A friend writes
e fromn South Africa that some gentius
cut there has done "H-amlet" in the
Tald ei s :he following exam
72 - who - -ea meextrqmely
post-~ I (iis: H-ere it is:
Hamlet-"WXie is u-W Ghost-'ik is
ann speok.' Hamlet-"Wies spook is
HOSPITABLE YORK
PLANS FOR EDITORS
EVERY CITIZEN IN TOWN IS EN.
GAGED IN PREPARATIONS FOR
MEETING.
CONVENES JUNE 12th TO 15th
Excursionz, Automobile Trips, Recep
tions and Picnics Free to Members
of Fourth Estate and Wives.
York.-Famed for its hospitality
since the days of the Revolutionary
wart York bids fair to surpass all pre
v'io a records in this entertainment
this year tendered the members of the
South Carolina press association.
From the time that the tidings were
received about two weeks ago, saying
that the association had agreed to
come here for its annual meeting,
June 12-15, to the present, every man
in town has been doing his very best
in the way of preparing for the meet
ing. With the appointment of the
-committees for the various branches
of the work, the local people have re
doubled their efforts. The president
of the Board of Trade has appointed
committees on finance, reception,
transportation, entertainment, etc.,
and every member of every committee
is now hard at work.
Arrangements have been perfectoA
with the Carolina & North-Western
railway by which a special pullman
train will be placed at the disposal of I
the press association for a trip from
York to Edgemont, N. C., and return,
and a special lunch will be served at
the terminus of the railroad. The
next day all members of the press as
sociation will be taken on an auto
mobile trip to historic battlefield of
Kings Mountain, which is in York
county, and a community picnic will
be enjoyed at All Healing Springs. A
public reception, to which all the peo
ple of York and surrounding towns'
will be invited, will be one of the chief
events of the editors' three days stay
here. This will enable all the public
to meet all the editors.
Every b't of entertainment offered
by York is to be free of charge and
no editor in the state is expected to
spend one cent while he is in this
city. Members of the local committee
say that they propose to leave noth
ing undone that can be done looking
to the comfort and entertainment of
the visiting members of the Fourth
Estate.
Advices from the executive commit
tee of the association are to the ef
feet that some of the best known mag
azine and newspaper men in the Unit
ed States have been invited here to
make addresses during the meeting of
the association and indications are
that at least two of the foremost ones
will accept.
From now until June the cry among
all newspaper men of South Carolina
will be "On to York."
Vote Money For Library.
Greenville.-Citizens of Greenville
voted for- a special tax of $4,000 a year
for 50 y-ears to be used in the main
tenanece of a county library. The plan
is to have the county deed the site of
the present record building situated
across the street from the court house
to the library association. Carnegie
will be asked for $40,000 with which
to r-emodel or rebuild the Record build
ing and the city will stand the main
tenance expense. Rest rooms and
other conveniences for visitors to the
city will be incorporated in the library
building.
Mutual is Assured Fact.
Greenville.-The Greenville Mutual
Fire Insurance company is now an as-.
sur-red fact. Eighty-two substantial
citizens'- of Greenville have signed
statements signifying a willingness to
place with the mutual company $1,000
insurance. on dwellings or brick build
ings. The company will not insure
contents, nor will it. for the present,
write more than $1,000 on any risk.
This is the first mutual formed in
Greenville since the beginning of the
present fire insurance problem In this
state.
Director of Public Health Named.
Spartanburg.-Dr-. C. E. Lowe of the
Rockefeller sanitary commission. New
IYork. is to become director of lpublic
health of Spartanburg, according to an
anouneente'nt made by Dr. J. H-. Allen,
preci~lent of the board of health, who
ha~d just had a conifcrence with Mayor
Floyd and Commissioner Hudson and
received their' approval of his recoin
mnendation 'f Dr. Lowe. Dr. Lowe is
an author iy and an experienced man
in this w~ork and those responsible
for i- selcion jelieve the city Is!
lort in securieg his services.
Governor Saves Tolbert's Life.
Gov. Mu'n';n commuted the sent
tence' of death impose'd upon A. C.
Tolb'ert of Greenwood to a life ter-m
in the state penitertiary. Tolbert
was rtonvicted on the charge of kill
ing his wife. lie said: "This action
is based on the recommendation of
the board of pardons and the report:
of Dr. Sandy of the State Hospital for
tensn.who made a thorough ex-:
aminat~ion mt' the mental c'ondition of
ITolbct. These reports convinced the
governor of Tolbert's mental irres
p1onIsibility.".
The Actor's Mistake.
Toole, the English actor, used to get
off a good thing eccasionally. At din- pet
ner at a coutary hotel he "as sitting It t
next to a gentleman who had helped the
himself to an extravagantly large piece ga
of bread. Toole took it up and began the
to cut a. slice from it. "Sir," said the a r
indignant gentleman, "that is my tit]
bread." "I beg a thousand pardons,, pri:
sir-," replied the actor, "I mistook it fos ! late
th. loaf.? j ece
FIEASTER IREC]
These Specials call for Quick
last long, as there are but fe'v
Thursday Morning, but we ar
fore Easter Sunday. Don't del
choice.
Ladies' Pretty Nifty Taffatea Dresses,
Neatly trimmed, with old braid on Georgrette Crepe, Georgrette Sleeves,
colors Cerice, Midnight Blue, and Bolond Blue, sizes 16 to 40. .......
Special betore Easter,
$10.98.
Pretty Gaberdines and Corduroy Wash Skirts.
About 10 different styles to choose from, you must have one of these pret
ty models for Easter or Sport Wear. Price before they are all gone,
98c to $1.98
Ladies 98c Waist---Special.
They are this season the prettiest Styles, the colors are: Old Rose, Open
Blue, Pink, Flesh, White, Lavender and Blue Striped, Etc; If
you come at once, Price
98c
Sport Coats, -
Right now is the time, for you to get that Easter Sport Coat, we have
about 4) of them, that we are sure to sell by Easter. Pretty
Stripes and Checks and Chinchella, Price,
$4.98 and $5.98
About your Easter Hat
Right now our Millinery.Department is just full of all that is the latest in
the Creation of Millinery, and at prices that' will antonish you.
Considering the Timliness and quality of our hats, we
have no hesitation in saying that our prices are
the lowest in Sumter County.
Extra Special, Our Ladies Low Shoes and Pumps
Pretty Pumps, in Patent Leather and Kid, both low and High Heels, also
the Latest shade of Br-onze, and the newest White Kid Pumps,
with the White Ivory Soles and Heels. Surely you can
not miss at least one pair of these shoes, at such
a low price, at
$2 69*
Some Specials
In Ladies Spring Suits that we cannot fully describe here but you must
comec and see the p)retty styles, to appreciate them, and as for price
we can promise you that it will be the lowest that these
SSuits can ever be bought for. Take our advice, Hurry.
ALWAYS I
ALWAYS SAVE
Next to Post Office. - -
-- I Fuel Qua;ities of' Werd.
Where the Akhund Rules. The fuel quialities of chestnut adaptl Life With
at is the name ot a valley and jit particularly to work in brass foun- Oolorcesset he p
ystate northeast of Afghanistan. dries, wlbere t gives just the required clreslf a
a' its nv'ue from the River Swat, amount of heai. and it is therefore in whntione reflects
Sc .:c:a of the ancie-nt Greek favor. C'oar~~ vessels in Flori~a anetIish ocetan
'gal arr,-an irndirect tributary of pay twice as munch for Florida but- andt ors croh
iver Kubul. Its people belong to tonwood :-s for :ny other, because it wetyhers isine
ace aled Yusufzal. Akhund is the burns with an even heat and with a whreter hsban
of their rulers. The old line of minimum ano.:n o f smoke and ash. Picrob, or ubrii
acs, which till a comparatively The princiial disadvantage of the |alwayso idees
:t'me ruled in Swat, claimed de- resinous pines Is their oily blcIadyLn es
~CIONI
! STOE 5311W
Action from you. They won' .
in each lot. They go on Sa.e
a sure they will all be gone be
Lay a moment if you want firs
Mens Suits
In the Seasons most popular Clothes, and designs, as well as new Serge,
A very handsome suit at a very popular price. Until Saturday Evening
$9,98
Very Special
Just when you are starting to think of them, we just received a fine lot of
Panama Hats, the finest styles you ever saw, and you know there
is nothing more stylish than a fine Panama for Spring and
Summer. Yes your size is waiting for you, Price,
$2 69
Mens Low Shoes
In Hatent, Gun Metal and Tan. We have a fine- line of high grade Shoes,
such well known brands, as Nettleton, Regal, and Florsheim, in
the English Last Etc. These Shoes are worth as high as $7.00
per pair. Our Special Price,
S2 98 to $350
Very Nifty Wash Suits
-For Young Boys in pretty fast colors, sizes from 2 1-2 to 8. Pretty Sail
or effects, Etc. Styles, and Russian Blosuses, Price,
98c
Easter Shirts for Men
Handsome fast Color Stripes and Hiain White, with or without Collars, al
so the latest Sport Styles, sizes 14 to 17. Bargains at
49c to 98c
Mens Trousers
From the Heavy Kahki and~Corduroys. to the pretty patterns of all Wool
and Summer weight Serges, we have the very Truser you want at
the price you want to pay, Price,
98c to $3 50
Mens Spring and Summer Light Weight Underwear
Athletic, and Balbriggen Shirts and Drawers. and Union Suits, with a sav
ing of almost 20 per cent on each Garment. Special Price,
The Garment,
19c to 49c
tEMEMBER
STOSRE,
S YOU MONEY.
. - - Sumter S. C.
,ut Lace. Owns a Cat With a Long "Recips,* Pamneli Loved-Washington GId.
thinking what a One of the officers of the Cat club Charles Stewart Parnell tell de -
is forced to lead,hedthtaeatsdwoahapeaeynloeiha.ahata
that chiffon and a xetoal aubectwihble u ~esi h ol ar
hand embroidery!mgtbexltdattefrhoignonbuanabsar oe
are to him mere ctsoadcle~e ntetl.fmu a.Wti e er
ereas a woman,. zoet npfeaotI."eh' rmta iePie a are
ested in babies, or avlal a, h oa eleuo h rse aeO nhaa
ds, or poetry, or"Wwodnttk$20frhmWendhsfewawrlie.btO
fundamentally and pi 5 o i hnh a i n vrke h lm,@t~SS
in -clothes.-Fromtikitnanh'sgtaln epe"I oiiacrceote
an xcptinaly alabl ct wic beleushe sariseold mr
aea Wb ter shans CalledSer. o h eefmu man Wihi a e y -
phone t inquie abou t. s h' fo thttm'anl a ar
