The Telegraph service of The
Daily Gate City and Constitu­
-Democrat is received over
oar own leased wire.
tion
1
sv
VOL. 122. NO. 94.
i-
(President
a,ve
What that answer would be, was
"ealed in the mind of the president.
He was to speak his final word on
submarine warfare and the forecast
general that he would declare
friendly relations between the United
States and Germany could no longer
continue. Most of Washington be
lieved the break with Germany was
•t band.
An ultimatum giving Germany one
Ifiore chance was held, however,
*ithln the range of probability. This
tfould be in keeping with the promise
that before a step that mean the
breaking of relations was taken, the
President would advise congress of
Ms intention to take that step.
The hall of the house of represent
atives was the scene of the presi
dent's history making appearance.
Every seat was spoken for laf*t night,
notwithstanding it was almost 5:00
o'clock before the very fact of the
President's intention was known. Tup
fathering in the galleries thus as
pired was limited to the hundreds in
toe families of senators and repre
sentatives, members of the supreme
court and members of diplomatic
®orps and friends of representatives.
immediate Abandonment of Attacks Upon Pas
senger Vessels is Only Thing Which
Will Prevent Break.
pCH UN OLMTII HftS GONE FORTH
WASHINGTON, April 19.
"Unless the imperial Ger
goverament should now
aediately declare and effect
abandonment of its present
aethods of
[assenger and freight carrying
[essels, this government can
no choice, but to sever
jiplomatic relations with the
Government of the German em-
ire altogether.''
This declaration, was made
|y President "Wilson to con
ess this afternoon at the cli
of a message in which he
udiotetf in severest terms the
Jerman submarine campaign.
"This decision I have ar
ived at," the president added,
'with the keenest regret, the
ossibility of action contem
plated I am sure all thoughtful
Americans look forward to
nth unaffectesd reluctance."
Robert J. Bender, United Press
Staff Correspondent.]
"WASHINGTON, April 19.—Wash
ington waited tense today for the
tour of one o'clock when America's
Jlace in the history of the greatest
struggle the world ever has known,
aeemed likely to be determined.
No one without tickets were per-
toitted in the gallerW, but this
Wilson Makes Public the Drastic Step
IHe Has Taken in the Disputes With
Germany.
warfare against
The president -was grave and earn
est as he spoke. Congress and the gal
leries scarcely stirred until he fin
ished. No applause Interrupted.
A full minute after the president
ceased speaking, a brief storm or
applause broke, with the members on
the floor and in the galleries particl
patlng. A "rebel" yell, given -when he
entered the chamber, was not re
peated. At the height of the cheering,
the president stepped down from the
speaker's platform and departed from
the chamber. He entered his automo
bile and was driven directly back to
the -white house..
The president had made no request
of congress. He had simpiy fulfilled
a
Promise
IVERY SEAT ENGAGED
FOR PRESIDENT'S SPEECH
Washington Anxiously Await
ing Hour for Important
Meeting.
President Wilson, appearing before
congress was expected to give an
swer to Europe's Insistent question:
"What will America do?"
action
at hand and
could
*°ns seeking admission. iwas
I •l°op hole for amicable settlement of
I Joe submarine tssue, snch a loop
Jnole as would offer hope that Ger
IJ^ny might yet meet the views of
|«e United Stxtea^ mi question.
provides in a general way for increas-L
ine the American active and reserve,
a
that he would advise con
a a a
Jje -reported today having taken.
Senators returned to their chamber
and ther house resumed consideration
of its agricultural bill.
War Spirit.
[By Robert J. Bender, United Press
Staff Correspondent]
WASHINGTON, April 19.—A spirit
akin to war pervades Washington this
afternoon, following the presfdent's
message to congress.
In the corridors of- the capitol, on
the street, in the different depart
ments and among officials generally,
the common expression is "Germany
will not yield."
But the president and his official
family continue hopeful that Germany
Germany, while showing every in
dication of a desire to meet this
country in the strained situation, has
taken a strong stand before her peo
ple on the submarine issue—one
from which the government now ap
parently feels it is unwilling to re
treat, according to German author
ities here.
Ambassador Von Bernstorff last
night said that he and Secretary
Lansing were to have another talk
on the Sussex case "in a few days."
The ambassador continued today to
be 'hopeful that the crisis would
a(l-j
One of the cabinet members said,
after the president had concluded,
that the people of the country should
not be depressed by the outlook.
"There is much hope among us that
Germany will yield," he said. "But
even should she decline aHH we be
forced to sever diplomatic relations,
Bryan Running Behind.
OMAHA, Neb., April 19.—Meager
returns from the state in yesterday's
primary indicate that Win. J. Bryan
is running behind his ticket and
there is a possibility he may be
beaten for delegate at large.
Henry Ford received a good vote
in Omaha and is reported to be run
ning close to Senator Cummins out
in the state. Justice Hughes' name
was written in by many voters.
Neutral Ship
LiTSBOiN, April 19
ian steamer Terje Vilcen
sunk. The crew was rescued.
The Terje Viken displaced 3,579
tons and was 3S5 feet long. She was
built in 1902 and owned at Tonsberg.
Pity the Kids!
Omaha World-Herald: Hard to stay
in the office? Think of the suffering
in the school rooms.
mes"!relations
There is not the slightest doubt in
found last night In the action by the!of
senate in passing an army bill which
arter ine presi iiu
iferenee caiieo oy ine pr^ |i
dent for
Chairmen ..
senate and house J?**1iinrotection
10 clock this morning, mu
publican members, were to hearjn ture^of the
advance nf the president's contemp-
'ated action
not stay a tremendous crush of per- Through^
a
the wMMt »o»M WI'X,"it™
solemn assurance
every part of the country that what
be
tte
of war
mlght
that
that lt
we ag
to
7
the
}UJ toda there
the
capital to^a^tn,^hlp
ae^®h
(Continued on W
gJaw
submarlne 0raft
the rules
founded nP
?L
07"the
and,
Protection. ^n^^
would be
an& Con£titati'on=©emocraL
we will hope and pray that war itself {European Turkey, the newspapers
may yet be avoided."
Bitter Comment.
WASHINGTON, April 19.—Bitter
comment fell from the lips of Repub
lican Leader Mann, following the
president's submarine message to con
gress this afternoon.
"It is a hypocritical speech, prob
ably for campaign purposes," he said.
"The president has been pro-English
all during the controversy. I said at
the time of the Mcl^emore resolution
that the president wanted to get into
war with Germany and I say the
same thing now."
Feelings of Uneasiness.
[By Carl W. Ackerman, United Press
Staff Correspondent.]
BERLIN, April 19.—'Despite feelings
of uneasiness over the possibility of
an early break between Germany and
the United States, the American em
bassy states that only the customary
number of daily requests for pass
ports are being received. There are
now 700 Americans in Germany on
'business and for educational HKI "304 arid
positions.
sage is expected to be in the nature iis ~lain duty to inform you very Notwithstanding the earnest pro-1 torpedoed sometimes passengers
of information to the people of thej,'. test of our government, the imperial and crews have been vouchsafed the
country, outlining his reasons for the,
preparing them for
1tlle imperial German govern-1 ed to carry out the policy it had an- the ship's boats before she was sent
what may result. ment announced its intention to treat nounced. It expressed the hope that, to the bottom. But again and again
administration circles that the peo-|and Ireland as embraced within the dangers to neutral vessels would be even to the ship boats allowed to
pie will stand firmly behind the pres-|seat
ldent in the course he deems neces-1 hant ships owned by its enemies structions whicfo it had issued to its ment foresaw must happen has
sary. Indication of this support was|that
Earned all vessels, of neutral: that
forces to a million men. prescribed or enter them at their lives of non-combatants. cannot be carried on without the most
The communication which has been|peril. The government of the United! What has actually hap
nrenared for dispatches to Germany, states earnestly protested. It took year which has since elapsed
held un as a result of the prehi- the position that such a policy could shown that those hopes were not
to so before congress, not be pursued without the practical justified, these assurances
xrvn nrnbablv be sent to the cables^ certainty of gross and palpable viola-, ceptible of being fulfilled. In pur- has manifestly proved impossible for
rftcr the ^resident has conc^uded his
"TnTconference called by the presi- employed as its instruments, inas-: adversaries thus announced and en-j within the bounds set by either the
Stone and nooa, or tne established for the'protest of this government, the com- imperial German government in
snnaie »ud J^p and Of the lives of non-com- manders of German undersea vessels formed this government and the other
committees, and Senator I^dge
committees and Sen»*°r Lodge and ^ection of^tne the na-i have attacked merchant ships with neutral governments of the world
Representative Cooper ranking re- batants at sea.
nQt in the
na
-i
observed by such
vessels. It based its
ground that persons
.. .i 1. 1. 2
KEOKUK, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, APR. 19, '16
AST WARNING IS SENT TO GERMANY
PETROGRA.D, April 19.—The Turk
ish garrison of the Black sea port of
Trebizorid escaped capture wh«n the
city was occupied by the Russians un
der General Indevltch, but Is being
may concede the United States de- closely pressed by the Slavs.
mands. The Turks are expected to make
"All sober-minded men must unite their first stand at the crossing of a
In hoping that the imperial German small stream emptying Into the Black
government marks the justice of our sea, six miles west of Troblzond.
demands and will meet them in the Heavy fighting Is expected at this
spirit in which they are made," was point.
the president's utterance in closing
his address and it reflected the atti
tude of his cabinet.
The grand duke, It Is believed here,
will now straighten his line by ad
vancing against Balburt and then
against Erzingan, headquarters of the
Ninth Turkish army, where desperate
resistance is expected.
Since the grand duke's advance In
to Armenia began, the Russians have
conquered nearly 20,000 square miles
of Turkish territory or about twice
the area included In the whole of
estimated.
The olty of Treblzond was not
strongly fortified and fell qulokly be
fore a surprise attack.
PARIS, April 19.—A rather violent
bombardment occurred last night
north of Verdun In the region south
of Haudromont, the war offloe stated
today, but bad weather is hindering
infantry operations.
Heavy rain storms occurred on the
Verdun front yesterday and a thick
fog overhung most of the western
theatre of war, making artillery ob
servations out of the question. On
the west bank of the Meuse, the Ger
mans contented themselves with drop
ping shells at Infrequent intervals on
the Dead
SALONIKA, April 19. German
troops crossed the Greek frontier
Monday and destroyed railway bridges
Sunk. (between Doiran and Akindual, accord
•The Norweg-jing to dispatches received here today,
has been
Assistant Secretary of War.
WASHINGTON, April 19.—Presi
dent Wilson has decidod to appoint
former Mayor Ingraliam, of Portland,
(Maine, to be assistant secretary of
war.
Decision was reached at a confer
ence last night between the president
and Secretary of War Baker.
President Wilson's Indictment
of German Submarine Warfare
IBv Robert Bender United Press matters, upon which the government bound upon every sort of errand.
Staff Correspondent.] of the United States based its protest Vessels of neutral ownership, even
Washington April 19.-^-President is not of recent origin or founded vessels of neutral ownership hound
Wilson today told congress of theiupon merely arbitrary principles set from neutral port to neutral port,
just itself even as others that have'disDatch of a communication to Ger-:up by convention. It is based on thei have been destroyed along with ves-!
preceded it. jmany that may mean the breaking of contrary upon manifest and impera-, ,sels of belligerent ownership in con
Tn all events the president is sali friendly relations with that nation, tive principles of humanity and has stantly increasing numbers. iSome
to regard his appearance before, rpjje president spoke as follows: |long been established with the ap-! times the merchantman attacked has
congress as his final step in boat! situation has arisen in the foreign I proval and by the express assent of been warned and summoned to sur
negotfatlons with Germany. His
tionality and vessels of neutral own- they could encounter them, in a way ,„su,v
hnnr^ftarried rieht" o^cl(»e "any"pftrt of~ the"high as the months have gone by, less and seas and that the Imperial German
solemn assurance from ^Sfeln|seas a^in^t their nse or expose less observant of restraints of any| government felt Justified In the clr-
them to" such risks could lawfully be!
kind
of the country of which it I all civilized nations. [render before being fired upon or
recalled that in February,' German government at once proceed- poor security of being allowed to take
waters surrounding Great Britain the dangers involved, at any rate the: no warning has been given, no escape
and destroy all mer-j reduced to a minimum by the in-j those on board. What this govern-
be found within any part submarine commanders and assured, happened. Tragedy has followed
portion of the high seas and the government of the United States tragedy on the seas in such fashion
it vtuld
take every possible,
veeD out of the waters it had thus of neutrals and to safeguard the fare of such a sort, if warfare It be,
mm?
LONDON, Ap,'£ 9.—Premie' As
quith at today's sting of the cabi
net council mad jf Inal effort to pre
vent a break-u his ministry and
a general eleo ju In the middie of
the world war
The oriels waw-jdmitted to be the
most grave faced by the coalition cab
inet since its formation. Sensational
rumors were circulated that not only
Lloyd George and other ministers,
but Lord Kitchener and! other mili
tary heads had threatened to resign
unless Asqulth yielded to the demand
for Immediate general conscription.
These reports were somewhat dis
credited by persistent rumors that a
compromise was reached over night.
The capture of Trebizond by the
Russians and late reports that the
United States Is about to break with
Germany were injeoted into the crisis
today by the Asqulth supporters with
wholesome effect. These encouraging
reports from Petrograd and Wash
ington ware used as arguments
against any oourse that might at this
time threaten England's position In
the eyes of the world.
The fact that the allied economlo
conference Is to open In Paris to
morrow was another reason cited for
averting a break.
Every member of the cabinet at
tended the forenoon meeting, dispos
ing of rumors that certain members
already had resigned.
CRITICAL SITUATION.
LONDON, April 19.—Predicting a
national disaster unless the cabinet
comes to an agreement on the con
scription issue, Premier Asqulth this
afternoon proposed adjournment of
the house of commons until next
uesday.
By a few days deliberation, the
prime minister said he hoped to
bring about a reconciliation.
The premier frankly Informed com
mons that several points of disagree
ment In the cabinet on the recrult
Ina question have not been swept
Wat1 8*Tfni" *rw«y "by the series of cabinet confer
ences.
If theae questions are not settled
by agreement, the result will be the
breaking up of the present ministry,
he said:
"The cabinet Is united In the belief
that this would be a national disaster.
I am hoping that wise counsel will
yet prevail."
BERLIN, April 19.—French posi
tions at Stelnbruch, north of Verdun,
have been captured by the Germans
who took 100 prisoners, the war of
fice announced this afternoon.
Northwest of Thiaumont farm,
east of Stelnbruch, a French counter
attack was repulsed.
with *urh
belligerent ownership,, precaution both to respect the rights, to make it grossly evident that war-
What has actually happened In the palpable violation of the dictates
alike of right and of humanity. What
ever the disposition and intention of
insus-jthe imperial German government It
of nations, particu-' suance of the policy of submarine^ keep such methods of attack
were to be warfare against the commerce of its,
Upto
0n
prescribed by thatltered upon by the impenal German reason or the heart of mankind.
on principles of: government, in spite of the solemn! in February of the presnt ySur the
lives of non-com- manders of German undersea vessels I formed this government and the other
have attacked merchant ships with neutral governments of the world
greater and greater activity, not only
turn of the case be observed by such greater and greater activity, not only that it had reason to believe that tho
the upon the high geas
grounding Great
of neutral na- Britain and Ireland, but wherever
exposed to extreme that has grown more and more ruth-.ders to attack any submarine of the
o^i'red tato the land intolerable risks, and that no less, more and more indiscriminate enemy they might encounter irpon the
observant of restraints of any government
and have delivered their at-j
anserted by any belligerent govern- tacks without compunction against
The law of nations la these] vessels ot every nationality any. (Continued on pace
ment.
attendant circumstances as
the commerce of its enemies
government of Great Britain had armed,
all morehant vessels of British own
ership and had given them secret or-
ctunstances in
treating all armed mer-
7
p-n
WITH DUZ ASIDE
Mexicans Expect to Prove That Bandit is Dead
Before Night, But American Officials
are Skeptical.
[By HS. T. Gonkle, United Press Staff
Correspondent.]
EL. PASO, Texas, April IS.—•'While
the belted Villa on&se awaited con
firmation of his death oi* American
reinforcements to renew the pursuit
in safety, the Felix Diaz revolt rais
ed its head again here.
United States secret service men
were investigating reports that the
Diaz revolution was being perfected
at border points and would break out
immediately on tne withdrawal of
the American expedition.
Financial interests favoring inter
vention, were said to be ready to back
the Diaz movement if the presence
of the United States troops in Mexico
did not finally result in intervention.
The government operatives were
trying to run down definite clues
I along this line.
I XHaz himself is understood to be
in biding on the east coast of Mexico,
but keeping in touch with his follow
ers here and abroad.
The movement was temporarily sus
pended when the United States troops
crossed the Mexican border.
Oarranza officials in Juarez, disre
garding ridicule by American officials
in B1 Paso, still insisted that positive
confirmation of the burial of Villa
was expected from Chihuahua before
the close of today.
United States authorities here
have practically discarded the theory
that Villa is dead.
Withdrawal Dsjnanded.
MEXICO CITY, April 19.—The
Mexican ambassador to Washington
has been instructed to demand the
withdrawal of American troops from
Mexico on the ground that Villlsta
bands have been completely broken
up, it was stated officially today.
[The Mexico City dispatch does not
Indicate whether new demands have
been made upon the United States
or whether this is merely an official
int«rpretation of the recent Carranza
note instructing the Mexican ambas
sador to treat with the United States
for the withdrawal of troops.]
Scott Goes to Front.
WASHINGTON, April 19.—Chief of
Staff Scott will leave tonight for San
Antonio to spend several dayr, with
General Funston in canvassing the
Mexican situation.
Scott's trip is at Secretary Baker
request. It is made solely for the
purpose of getting as accurate infor
mation as is possible for the uso of
the department, said Baker.
'General Funston remains full
Objections Filed to Having
Photographs Made of In
criminating Documents.
WASHINGTON, April 19-—Ambas
sador Von Bernstorff arranged to
call upon Secretary Lansing at ll:ot
today to renew requests for the re­|of
lease of Wolf Von .Igel, arrested in
New York yesterday by justice de
partment agents on charges of com­!
plicity in the Welland canal plot.
It was intimated at the embassy
that the case is considered as very
serious there. It was compared by
one official to the Sussex case.
Is International Case.
NTDW YORK, April 19.—The arrest
of Wolf Von Igel, former secretary of
Captain Von Papen and German em­|German
bassy attache, and the seizure of pa
pers in his office, said to reveal many
things concerning extensive bomb
plots in this country took on an inter
national aspect today, second only to
the submarine controversy. Ambaasa-
*JL
THE "WEATHER 'V* r-
Bain and cooler. Local temp
—7 p. m. 56 7 a. m. 68.
Just as Soon as American Troops Withdraw "i
From Mexico, There Will be More -V
(Trouble Among the Natives.
THE CHASE AFTER VILLA IS DELAYED
•r-'i
TEN PAGES
charge of the affairs of his depart*
ment. Including the expedition into
Mexico. He has the fall confidence of
the department and
hlB
dispositions
have the department's entire ap
proval."
la
sties With Bandits.
[By H. D. Jacobs, United Press Staff
Correspondent.]
WITH THE AMiORffOAN ABMT INI
MEXTOO, April 14. (Via motor truck
to •Columbus, N. M., April 19.)—The
country around General Pershing's
field headquarters at Namiquipa is
being com'bed by the United States
on the theory that Villa may possibly
have doubled back after the Guerrero
fight and is hiding in the hills or
villages near Namiquipa.
(He Is almost dally reported at all
points of the compass in places
hundreds of miles apart. The entire
.territory in every direction of head
•quarters is therefore being patrolled.
Troops are moving In and out of
camp at all hours and headquarters
is probably the busiest spot along
the whole line of communications.
Several minor clashes with Vll
lLstas to the south of Namiquipa were
'reported, all unverified. Reports are
constantly being received of scattered
remnants of Villa's band, bat Villa
himself has apparently dissolved Into
thin air. His whereabouts continue
to reinain a mystery to General
Pershing's staff.
The strongest circumstantial report
is that Pablo Lopez, reported dead
several times, but known to have
been wounded In the clash with Col
onel EJrwin's column at San Geronimo,
abandoned the litter in which he was
being carried between two mules, and
is now riding with a band of twenty
or thirty men.
Manuel Bacca, reported killed In
the same fight, but later seen in
Namiquipa, is believed to have a
small force back in the hills. Even
former Villlsta "General" Cervantes
is reported in the hills with eighty OX
one hundred men.
The ability of these small bands to
keep out of reach of rfhe American
troops Is du» to the raggpd character
of the district. For instance. Las
Crucez canon through which Persh
ing's staff moved from Iublan to
•Namiquipa, is a succession of steep,
jagged walls covered with rocks and
loose stones which endanger horses
and men.
All this region is Villa's old stamp-
(Continued on page 8)
WANT VON IGEL RELEASED
AND PAPERS RETURNED
dor Von Bernstorff is understood to
have laid the entire matter before the
German foreign office. The United
States department of state is kept
posted on every move. It has ruled
that if it is shown Von Igel was an at
tache of the German embassy at the
time his alleged offenses were com
mitted, he must be released.
The greatest anxiety shown by Am
bassador Von Bernstorff is to take the
papers seized in Von Igel's office out
the hands of the American officers,
His demand that they be not photo
graphed and that they be turned over
to Von Igel instantly, was made last
night, but early today the papers were
still in possession of the United States
district attorney and had been, it was
reported, both photographed and
copied.
Von Igel is indicted for a crime al
leged to have been cJmmitted in Sep
I tember, 1914. The American records
show he became secretary at the
embassy in September, 1915.
If thesv records are borne out, he will
likely be held for trial with Captain
jHans Tauscher and the others with
whom he is indicted.
Von Igel is at liberty under $20,000
ball.
