WE LIKE KICKS
Kick if you don't get your Star regularly.
We are anxious to give the best possible
service. Don't hesitate to call our circu
lation department. Main 9400, and tell us if
there's anything wrong.
H I^^^^
SENDS ULTIMATUM YO KAISER
Goes Before Congress to Re
_ port What He Has Done in
Grave Crisis Arising From
Submarine Situation; Sever
ance of Relations With Ger
many Seems Inevitable.
APRIL NINETEENTH IN HISTORY
1776—The battle of Lexington.
1861—The first gun fired in the civil war.
1914—President Huerta asked to salute the
United States flag before 6 p. m.
1916—America's final demands sent to Ger-
BUttJTe
By Robert J. Bender
Catt*4 fr«M fteff
WASHINGTON, April 19.—President
- Wilson has diiptlched a note to Germany
declaring that it must change its submarine
methods immediately if friendly relations
with the United States are to continue.
The president told congress about it this
afternoon, at a joint session of the house and
senate, which he unexpectedly called last
evening.
The note differs from an actual ulti
matum only in that it carries no time limit
for a cessation of submarining, altho it indi
cated that the present policy must be stop
ped immediately.
Leaders in the house and senate, and
members of his cabinet are understood to
have given their approval to the note, which
was cabled last night to Berlin.
, Official Washington today believes a
break with the kaiser over the submarine is
sue is inevitable.
Men high in the councils of the kaiser
have declared repeatedly that Germany will
not relinquish her submarine tactics, which
are regarded as the nation's most effective
weapon against her enemies.
The president reached the house of rep
resentatives a few minutes before 1 p. m.,
and immediately addressed the assembled
statesmen. A brilliant audience heard him.
Tlie diplomatic and cabinet galleries were
crowded. Crowds jostled for standing space
in the halls outside.
Every available member of the capitol
police was on duty to guard the executive.
They guarded every door. Those with
out tickets were not admitted.
The president was grave and earnest as
he spoke. Members of congress and those
in the crowded galleries scarcely stirred un
til he had finished. No applause interrupted
him. A full minute after he had ceased a
brief storm of applause broke.
A broad intimation was given today by
responsible German officials that Germany
may find it possible to meet the American de
mands as President Wilson outlined them.
The executive made no request of con
gress. He simply fulfilled his promise to ad
vise congress in case he took action such hs
he was reported to have taken.
He spoke as follows: "A situation has arisen in the foreign
relations of the country of which it is my plain duty to inform
you very frankly.
"It will he recalled that in February, 191.5, the imperial
fierman. government announced its intention to treat the
waters surrounding fireat Hritain and Ireland as embraced
within the scat of war and destroy all merchant ships owned
by its enemies that might be found within any part of that
portion of the high seas and that it warned all vessels of I
The Seattle Star
: THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS :
VOLUME 18 SEATTLE, WASH., WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 1916
Ambassadors Who Will Be Recalled by Germany and the
United States if Nations Sever Diplomatic Relations
t ouui jouann llnurlrh Von Ritrnatorff. U.rninn imhiiiidnr to the
I'nlted Htatea. who will ree«l»# hla paaaporta If thla country tevtri diplo
matic dealing* with the kaiser. waa cradled In an embaaay lie w»»
horn In Isuidon, In ISfiJ Ml* father wan Pruaalan ambaaaador at
l^ondon.
The preaent count has been 2« years In diplomatic aervlce He
cam* to Washington In 190 J. Von Hernatorff haa an American will
In I**7 he marrlsd M!«*t Jeanne l,uckemeyer, daughter of a German-
Ameiican family of New York.
Altho f>3 years of as*, lie could aaal!* paaa for S3 ll* haa ths ft*
ure and carriage of s subaltern array officer, which he waa before he
took up <Jtp;omary.
******
neutral as well as of belligerent ownership, to keep out of
the waters it had thus prescribed, or else enter them at their
peril
Tells of U. S. Protest to Germany
"The United States earnestly protested.
"It took the position that such policy could not be pur
sued without the practical certainty of gross palpable;
violations of the law of nations, particularly if submarine craft'
were to be employed as its instrument, inasmuch as the rules
prescribed by that law, rules founded upon principles of hu-'
manity and established for the protection of lives of noncom-1
batants at sea, could not in the nature of the case be observed
by such vessels
"It based its protest on the ground that persons of neutral
nationalities and vessels of neutral ownership would be exposed
to extreme and intolerable risks and that no right to close
any part of the high seas against their use or expose them
to such risks could lawfully be asserted by any belligerent
government.
"The law of nations in these matters, upon which the
government of the United States based its protest, is not of i
recent origin or founded upon merely arbitrary principles set;
up by convention.
"It is based, on the contrary, upon manifest and impera
tive principles of humanity and has long been established,
with the approval and by the express assent of all civilized
nations.
"Notwithstanding the earnest protest of our government,
the imperial government at once proceeded to carry out the
policy it had announced.
"It expressed the hope that the dangers involved, at any
rate the dangers to neutral vessels, would be reduced to a
minimum by the instructions which it has issued to it« sub
marine commanders, and assured the government of the United
States that it would take every possible precaution both to |
respect the rights of neutrals and to safeguard the lives of non
combatants.
Says Promises Have Not Been Fulfilled
"What has actually happened in the year which has since
elapsed lias shown that those hopes were not justified, these
assurances insusceptible of being fulfilled.
"In pursuance of the policy of submarine warfare against
the commerce of its adversaries, thus announced and entered
upon by the imperial ficrman government, in spite of the
solemn protest of this government, the commanders of fier
man undersea vessels have attacked merchant ships with
greater and greater activity, not only on the high seas sur
rounding Cireat Britain ami Ireland, but wherever they could
encounter them, in a way that lias grown more and more
ruthless, more and more indiscriminate, as the months have
gone by, less and less observvant of restraints of any kind;
and have delivered their attacks without compunction against
vessels of everv nationality and bound upon every sort of
errand,
"Vessels of neutral ownership, even vessels of neutral
ownership bound from neutral port to neutral port, have
been destroyer! along with vessels of belligerent ownership
in constantly increasing numbers.
A red-blooded foldler. a imlil gentleman by nature. a polluted diplo
mat, and a* hard a worker a* f'realdent Wllaon hlmaelf thla deecrlbea
Jamea \V, <»erard. fnlted Stit'ea antbaasador to tJermans who will
leave that rountry at «>nc* If the threatened break lu diplomatic rela
tione occura.
tierard *a« appointed to the Merlin po"t In June, 1913
fierard la a member of one of Neer York'a moat arlatorratlc faml-
Ilea He aerved on the ataff of 0»n Hutt thru the Hpanlah war and
caine out a ma)or of the F"lret brigade Hy marriage to Mary Duly,
daughter of Nl.ircua l>«ly. the cop|*r klnf, he added to hie vaat fortune
In Ifii" he »at> elected to the N(t Yorti aupreme i-ourt
IT MM MEAN WAR 01 IT MAY NOT
The eeverance of diplomatic relatione with Germany, which
now eeema probable, doea not mean • declaration of war. It
doee mean, however, that danger «f a war becomei a probabil
ity, and that Germany no longer haa any atandlng with thla
country. Our embaaeador will be recalled and the German am
baaaador in the United Stataa will be given hla paeeporta.
The two natlona will not be on "epeaklng terma." That
meane that mieunderetandmge will be likely to follow aoon. It
alao meana that if Germany iinke another veaael in which
Americana loee their livea, a declaration of war probably will
follow.
"Sometimes the merchantman attacked has been warned
and summoned to surrender before being fired upon or tor
pedoed; sometimes passengers or crews have been vouchsafed
the jxior security of being allowed to take to the ship's boats
before she was sent to the bottom.
Many Vessels Destroyed Without Warning
"But again and again no warning has been given, no
escape even to the ship's boata allowed to those on board.
"What the government foresaw would happen II \S
happened.
"Tragedy has followed tragedy on the seas in such fashion,
with such attendant circumstances, as to make grossly evident
that warfare of such a sort, if warfare it be, cannot be carried
on without the most palpable violation of the dictates alike of
right and of humanity.
"Whatever the disposition and intention of the imperial
German government, it ha* manifestly proved impossible for
it to keep up such methods of attack upon the commerce of
its enemies within the bounds set by either the reason or tlie
heart of mankind.
"In February of tlie present year the imperial German
government informed this government and the other neutral
governments of the world that it had reason to believe the
government of Great Britain had armed merchant vessels
of British ownership and had given them secret orders to at
tack any submarine of the enemy they might encounter upon
the seas, ami that the imperial German government felt justi
fied iti the circumstances in treating all armed merchantmen
of belligerent ownership as auxiliary vessels of war which it
j would have the right to destroy without warning.
Discusses Germany's Extraordinary Rules
"The law >>f nations has long recognized the right of
! merchantmen to carry arms fur protection, to use them to
| repel attack, tho to use them in such circumstances at their
own risk ; but the imperial German government claims the right
to set these understandings aside in circumstances which it
deemed extraordinary.
"Again and again the imperial (ierman government has
iven this government its solemn assurances that at least pas
| senger ships would not be thus dealt with, and yet it has
again and again permitted its undersea ships to disregard
ithosc assurances with entire impunity.
. "Great liners like the Lusitania and Arabic, and mere
one cent
LAST EDITION
Before you go home tonight, grab a Star
Pink from the boy on the corner. Late
news, late sports, and a laugh every day.
Weather forecast: Fair tonight and Thurs
day.
EVENTS WHICH LED TO CRISIS IN
GERMAN-AMERICAN RELATIONS
February 4, 1915—Germany declared th« water* around the
Britlah Isle* would be a war lone after February 18, and an
nounced that every merchantman found therein would be tof*
pedoed.
February 10—Th e United State* warned Germany that K
would be held to "etrict accountability" for any trenchment M
American life or property.
February 16—Germany replied that the unfalmaaa Of the
Britlah blockade and the neceaaity for eelf-preoervatlon would
force It to continue Ita aubmarlne policy.
April 30 —American ateamar Gulflight waa torpedoed and
three killed
May I—An advertleement In New York papers warned
Americana not to travel on the liner Lueltanla.
May 7—The Luaitania waa torpedoed and eunk, and 1,200
drowned, Including 115 Americana.
May IJ—The United Statea protected, eaylng It would "wet
omit any word or act neceaaary to ita eacred duty of main
taining the righta of cltlzene."
May JO—Germany replied that the Lueltanla waa armed and
carried munltione.
June S—Secretary of State Bryan reelgned.
June 10—A new note of warning waa aent to Germany.
July t—Germany replied that a Britlah ehlp could net be
protected by having Americana aboard.
July Cl—Another note te Germany again eta ted the poeltlea
of the United ttatee.
Auguet I*—The Britlah steamer Arable eunk, and two Amen
I cane were Included among the drowned.
October 6—German Ambaeeador Von Bemetorff premised
dleavewal and reparation In the Arabic caee.
January »—Berlin prom lead te pay Indemnity far Amerleand
loot In Lueltanla torpedoing,
January 29—Secretary Lanalng announced that Germany had
" re/ueed te eaatute ita premise of dleavewal.
January 2**—'The final word ef the United Statee In Luelta
nla case waa handed to Ambaesador Vbn Bemetorff.
February IS—Germany warned the world that all armed en*
my merchantmen would be eunk without warning. The United
Statee demanded withdrawal of that order.
March S—Senate voted to etand by the preeldent
Merch 7—Houee voted to etand by the preeidenL
March 2S—The Sueee* dleaater followed by the attacke on
the Eagle Point. Mancheeter Engineer and Berwlndvale. These
precipitated the preeent crlaia.
ferry boat* like the Sussex, have been attacked without •
moment's warning, v. metimes before thtv had even become
aware that they were in the presence of an armed vessel of
the enemy, am] the lives of noncombatants, passengers and
crews have been sacrificed wholesale, in a manner which the
government of the United States cannot but regard as wanton
and without the slightest color of justification.
Declares Slaughter Is Wanton
"No limit of any kind has in fact been set to the in<9»>
criminate pursuit and destruction of merchantmen of all kinds
and nationalities within the waters, constantly extending in
area, where these operations have been carried on; and the roll
of Americans who have lost their lives on ships thus attacked
and destroyed has grown month by month, until the ominous
toll has mounted into the hundreds.
"One of the latest and most shocking instances of this
method of warfare was that of the destruction of the French
cross-channel steamer Sussex.
"It must >>tand forth as the sinking of the steamer Lusi
tania did, as so singularly tragical and unjustifiable as to
constitute a truly terrible example of the inhumanity of sub
marine warfare as the commanders of (iertnan vessels havt
for the past 12 months been conducting it.
"If this instance stood alone, some explanation, some dis»
avowal by the (ierman government, some evidence of criminal
mistake or willful disobedience on the part of the commander
of the vessel that fired the torpedo might be sought or enter*
tained.
"Rut, unhappily, it does not stand alone.
' ivcciiit events make the conclusion inevitable that it
is only one instance, even tho it be one of the most extreme
and distressing instances, of the spirit and method of warfare
which the imperial (ierman government has mistakenly
adopted and which from the first exposed that government
to the reproach of thrusting all neutral rights aside in pur
suit of its immediate objects.
Threatens to Break Off Relations
"The government of the l"nite<l States has been very
patient.
"At every stage of this distressing experience of tragedy
after tragedy, in which its own citizens were involved, it has
sought to be restrained front any extreme course of action or
of protest by a thoughtful consideration of the extraordinary
circumstances of thiunprecedented war. and actuated in all
that it said or did by the sentiments of genuine friendship
which the people of the United States always entertained
and continue to entertain toward the (ierman nation.
"It has, of course, accepted the successive explanations
and assurances of the imperial government as given in entire
sincerity and good faith and has hoped, even against hope,
that it would prove to he possible for the German government
so to order and control the acts of its naval commanders as
to square it*, policy with the principles of humanity as em
bodied in the laws of nations.
"It has been willing to wait until the significance of the
acts became absolutely unmistakable and susceptible of bufr
GERMANY SENDS NEW ANSWER ON SUSSEX
BY CARL W. ACKERMAN
United Press Staff Correspondent
BERLIN, April 19.—Foreign Minister Von Jagow today
handed Ambassador Gerard a second memorandum with regard
to the channel packet Sussex.
(Continued on Pag* 2)
