HOME EDITION
TODAY'S PRICES
'- ki n bank nUft ttc bill) Hlfc
I -. .1 p. sy fiO NarlontlCH btlil 16
.)iTi.ur - unrnry 2 Bar nihw
jui llarwirtti quotation) .w-'
" , i r y .r"-:30i'Hinn' Tower
i iw ,. k Mend, to wak -Bto-rki Iowr.
nKVTHKK FORkC ST.
KI I'ufco and irnl Tea. fair, collier.
frut la 1'naliamite; Arizona imil ew
Mesico. fair, colder.
"single cott five cents. EL PASO, TEXAS, WEDNESDAY EVENING, -APRIL 19. 19L6.
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
t'ELIVEIlED ANYWHERE SO CEXT8 A MONTH.
WILSON IS READY TO OUTLAW KAISER
irtual Ultimatum
erman
v
bbsBb ffl H jH HI Mf
u
i
u
Wilson Warns That Illegal
Attacks on Ships Carrying
Americans Must End.
leadersHea'r
NOTE OUTLINED
Lansing Refuses To Discuss
Submarine Issue Now
With Von Bernstorff.
BI:ilLI.. OmiSlAXY, April 19
Tlie foreign office transmitted
today to the American em
bassy a supplementary note In re
gard to the Aiiascx. containing .
Mda-.lt .worn to by a Sl. pas
"' on the Sussex, that the
steamship wn, not torpedoed and
also n statement to the same ef
fect from an American passenger.
WASHINGTON. D. C, April 1.
President Wilson, in a note to
i.ermany. which was sent
i ii i-dai night, has warned Germany
tint unless attacks in violation of In-
t m itinnal ! -.. . ...
in Sjic ont fj,e not to Qermany
r j.ul.licattecl TbumlMr, t 4ater the
.. was changed and Jt was decided to
kIm It out as hboo as It could "be canted.
in teit is about S0D0 words, Inclndlnsr
in appendix of 2500 words.
The president rtvealrfd this ftct to
! iMtori .Mtone and Lodge and rapre
n -itatives Flood and Cooper, ranking
'i-mocraU- and Republican m.mW. r
ih longresslonal foreign committees,
it a cunf. rence at the white house this
1'irnlnj:.
Tht. president explained that the
"t' practically is an ultimatum but
l'es not contain a time limit. A de
n .nid Ik made, honover, that Germany
t'Ml.v immediately
Bernstorff Siecs'l.anslng.
ount von BernstOHt the German
inJ.asKador, oonforred with secretary
f mate Lansing at 11 ootook this morn-i-.g
The engagement was made by the
imbassador'e request. He was tQlfl
ih. submarine Issue could not be dls-
uHtid at tbis time, and although the
president's Intention to lay the case
fore congress was tint disclosed to
ii ambassador, It was the real reason
'm secretary Lansings refusal to dls-
ifs the subject The-visit of the com-
miiee members to the white house was
n.'.rded as surrounded with possiblli
k k or gravest importance. They have
i -iiatedly been assured by the white
nuse that they would be consulted by
in president before he took any dras
ic action.
Much Surprise Aroused.
rin- action of the president, an-
imed shortly after he had con-
f' rr- d with senate and house leaders,
.iimeil unconcealed astonishment In
iffn lal circles, American and foreign,
i vk w of the positive and repeated
-Ui.'imnU made since yesterday noon
hnt no communication would be sent
1 i.irmany until after congress had
ii .nd from the prebident's lips the full
i port of the status of affairs with
i tniany
Tin ii.-t effect of the president's ac
ii n in sending the note this morning,
i th.it congress will hear of a com
M't'd diplomatic exchange and face
iral cents, and ti 111 not be taken in
iii consultation about a step 1b a pro
i;rowiie policy.
War May Follow.
Congress alone has power to declare
v. .ir and there is only one Instance
i i modern history where a break In
llplomauc relations between two first
-lasa powers has not been followed by
sr It is tbe situation between Ger
rnuny and Italy
Kirst class powers have ' suspended
r lut'ons with lesser states and leaser
states have broken between thetn
elvea without hostilities but all diplo
matic history points to a atate of war
" hen two first class powers reach that
point
"Mint Snfegunrd American Lliea.
The president went over the sltua-
on ier thoroughly with the senate
in! house foreign committee leaders
t n.i told them explicitly he believed
tin t'nlted States could not remain on
lihrdlv terms w'th Germany if Amer
oan lies continurd to be placed in
ii opan by Cermau submarines. He
laid before them all information he
lli Include in his address before con
.'res Tbe demand for the stop to
ill. Kil warfare, the president told tbe
i-nder, is unequivocal.
s tin committeemen left the white
house they made no effort to conceal
what the president had told them.
It Is Virtually lltlmntum.
The note to Germany went forward
lit night In !ode by wa.' of Copen
hagen. The president wants it to be
hi the hands of ambassador Gerard
in the German foreign office when he
a ppi ai s before .congress.
The members who heard the presi
dent outline It did not understand It
to be an ultimatum In the sense that
the term is technically used, trot all
lonstdered it to have that effect
Senator Loose" aaked the presides
about the use-of the word "Immediate
ly" In that eonnectn and wan tqld
Continued on pace S. Col. 2)
. 1 7 1 '
For $2,000,000 a Popular Vote
k.
MAY RECALL
MORE TROOPS TO
United States Sends Rein
forcements to Mexican
Punitive Expedition.
San Antonio, Texas. April 19. Gen
Funston has ordered approximately
2300 more troops to proceed to Co
lumbus, K. M., preparatory to entering
Mexico.
The troops which have been ordered
to Pershing's base at Columbus, are
now on duty alons" the border. What
troops will relieve them and where
they will come from remained unan
nounced. It may be that the, war de
partment will have to authorize the
sending of the few remaining troopa
In. the United States into this depart
nient or It may b that the filling of
the vacant points along the border may
be left to tbe government of Texas,
waich may send the mi.'itia.
The troops selected for Gen. Persh
ing are the Sixth cavalry from the
Brownsville district, tbe 17th Infantry
from Bagle Pass, troop L. of the Tenth
cavalry, from Fort Apache, Arizoiia,
and one battalion of the 34th infantry,
one company of which is at HI Paso,
one at Marfa and another at Fabens.
Marfa is a town just north of Ojlnaga,
en the Mexican frontier and Fabens
In on the Rio Grande, only a few miles
from El Paso.
In addition to these troops. Gen.
Pershing now has In his base guard
at Columbus 800 men, but the necessity
of maintaining at least that many there
Is recognized. ,
2 ALLEGED HUERTA PLOTTERS
DEAD; 2 IN PRISON; TO TRY 8
Judge William Sheppard will prcatde
In the Huerta conspiracy case In San
Antonio, which comes up before the
city on tne iirsc
ease involves
with violation
-at ffte neutrality act
uen. VI donatio iluerta, tne cmet de
fendant, Is dead, while Jose Delgado,
one of tbe alleged ooiisniratem was
killed with Gefi. Orosco at Bpsqaa I
Two .of the defendant are in urtsolr.
FraficJseo Kfcondon 'and Iloque Oomea, J
wmie une reiMBHiuer ui inv uciviiunaiu
I are out on bond.
Whether an or tne neienaants win
be present is problematical and especi
ally doubtful Is tbe presence of Abra
ham ltatner, the Russian secretary to
Huerta.
The list of defendants In the case, In
clusive of those who have died and dis
appeared are. Gen. Vlctorlano Huerta,
Jesus Guaderrama, Francisco r.scon
don. Aristoco Garrascoso, J. C. 7.oxoa,
Itoquo- Gomex, Albino Fia. V Callero.
Luis Fuentes, Abraham Ratner, Jesus
Velarde and Jose Delgado.
0BREG0N HOP'eTfOR NEWS
OF FINDING VILLA'S BODY
San Antonio. Texas, April 19. A
statement has 1een received here from
Gen. Alvaro Obregon. minister of war,
stating he hoped to have "good news"
as soon as a searching party, consist
ing of two Mexicans and one Ameri
can officer, returned from examining
the reputed grave of Villa.
The statement issued In Mexico City
and made public here by the local
Mexican consulate, said:
"I tope to have official confirma
tion of Villa's death at any moment
I have full confidence in the account
given by an old man and woman, who
claim they nursed Villa in his last
hours and buried them. They are both
well acquainted with Villa and could
hardly be mistaken."
SHIPPERS PUZZLED OVER
HOLDING UP OF SHIPMENT
If ten cars of orairie hay cannot be
sent from Juarez to San Antonio, b
wav of Chihuahua City, for the use of
the American cavalry horses., can nine?
El Paso shippers think not and instead
or nine cars or prairie nay going
across the Rio Grande on Wednesday
morning, for dellverv to the Mexican
National railway, the cars are being
held on this side, pending the action
of the constitutional authorities rela
tive to the release of ten oars of hay
at Chihuahua that went down during
the past week. They were to haTe been
delivered to the Sorth Western road
there.
"We have no explanation from Chi
huahua as to the delay in shipment."
said a representative of the Mexico
North Western railroad on Wednesday
CHIEF CLERK QUARTERMASTER'S
DEPARTMENT INSPECTS DEPOT
C. P. Dalle), chief clerk In the
quartermaster general's department in
Washington, arrived here . Wednesday,
for an Inspection of the El Paso quar
termaster depot and the border brigade
He will go to Columbus to make an
Inspection of the quartermaster base
there and may go to Cases' Grande
base before he returns from Washing
ton. ' i -
AMERICAN AIRPLANE IS
SEEN ABOUT CHIHUAHUA
.' Chihuahua. Mex.. April 1. An Amer
ican airplane encircled the city todav
at an altitude of 3000 feet but made no
landing. All is quiet in Chihuahua.
GEN. TERRAZAS CLAIMS
VILLA STOLE 7000 SHEEP
An ei ho of the methods employed by
VUla of confiscating livestock durlhg
the tiihe He cohtroled the government
In the state of Chihuahua Is now being
heard In the SBth district court In. the
heating of the sequestration., suit
brought by Gen Luis Terrazas, former
governor of Chihuahua, against John
W Gist and others for the recovery of
about 7000 head-of sheep.
The plaintiff alleges that In October
' . (Continued on nsse Col. 1.1,
iGHIEF IF STIFF
IS SENT Tl
BORDER
May Determine At Once
Whether to Withdraw . or
Reinforce the Troops.
germanIssue
is paramount
Break in Relations May Re
sult in Immediate Recall 16
Prepare for Future.
VILLA'S DUATH IS OVL'
nr.voR s vyv, GuTinitm:.
Chihuahua, Hex., April 19. Gen
Luis Gutierrez, military governor of
Chihuahua, authoritatively states
that the, report of Villa's death i
only a rumor.
The authorities are aiding In th
shipment of supplies to the United
States troops.
WASHINGTON, D. G.. April 19.
Maj. Gen. Hugh L. Scott chief
of staff of the army, will go
to San Antonio. Texas, tonight by order
of secretary of war Baker in order to
get accurate information as to the sit
uation on the border and In NIoxrco.
Secretary 'Baker Issued tWs state
''enfe Seolt leave for San Antonlo-tMs-wening-Ht.e.H
t my request iHe
will spend oenaa days with Gen. Fun
ston.itba rotilria. This trip to made
kfflAliirTnr iriefirtos.af getting as ac-
bUriTe InfonaaUtm as possible Jfor the
e of the flspartaent Gen."Fucstn
remains in iuu eer 01 ma aiuura
or his department. Including the ex
pedition into Mexico. He has the full
confidence pt the department and his
dispositions have the- department's en
tire approval."
Trpopa 3Iny He Heenlled.
Decision of the government on the
question as to whether the American
foices bunting Villa shall be recalled
or reinforced for further operations to
day awaited the receipt of further re-
Jiorts from American officers in Mex
co. The general belief here Is that the
German situation could have some
bearing upon the impending decision.
Should atbreak in diplomatic relations
occur, it was pointed out that the
troops now in Mexico wculd be needed
at home as military prudnce would re
quire that steps be taken to prepare for
eventualities in Europe.
The Washington govenment as near
ly as tha attitude of the cabinet can
be learned, is in no mood to force
matters in Mexico. Alrady the main
purpose of tbe expedition, protection
of the border. Is regarded as accom
plished. Might Again Crn-m Ilonler.
In some quarters It was suggested
that an agreement foi withdrawal
might be reached with (en. Carranza
on the basis that If VIIU or his men
again beaded nortbwari to within
some specified distance of the border,
despite the efforts of Catranza troops
to check them. United J-tates troops
could again cross the border There
was nothing to Indicate that this plan
had actually been discussed, however.
In moving 2300 troops to the border
or possibly beyond, an reported in San
Antonio dispatches. Gen Funston is
acting within the discretionary power
conferred upon him when the chase
began. He was also instructed by sec
retary of war Baker, after the Parral
Incident was reported to spare no ef
fort to protect the advanced forces.
It is known that army officials be
lieve the situation of some of the de
tachments would be perilous If Car
ranza troops in other districts should
follow the lead or those at Parral, who
are reported to hae fired on Maj.
Tompkins's men. A message today
said that Americans from Parral re
ported that the American citizens there
were without arms
.eott May Help Determine Course.
Secretary Baker would not discuss
Scott's mission beyond his formal state
ment. It was assumed, however, that
his repbrt, after a conference with Gen.
Funston, will go far toward determin
ing the course to be pursued la Mex
ico. It Is known that Gen.-runston lias
been urging the department that he pe
permitted to shift his headquarters afid
th border base In order to shorten his
line of communications. The depart
ment has not thus far approved the
suggestions, although' the request was
before tire cabinet Tuesday.
The department apparently has hesi
tated to authorise any rajlleal change
in the status of the expedition, .In the
face of requests .from -Gen. Carramta
that the troops be recalled, believing
it might tend tp Increase anti-American
feeling among Carranza garrisons.
CENSORSHIP AT COLUMBUS
RIGID; CORRESPONDENTS KICK
A more rigid censorship Is to be en
forced at Columbus, N. M.. than has
haan In .,.a l h namt with the eOr
.'-ua, ,,i ivj vc 111 lc pan. - - ""
respondents covering the 'Mexican
news. - -
It was reported from Columbus Wed
nesday Uifit the correspondents at the
...... , t 1 1..J ..... ka tlflinM
IIU.IL fiave CUinUlttllieu vwAuirc ..
of towns and officers which had been
deleted from their messages by the
censor at the front, were being sent
out from Columb-ui after the corre
spondents there had talked with offi
cers coming out and truck drivers on
the transport trains. I This caused the
new oroer to ue iss"Je''
ARMY FROM MEXICO
y
Crowds Silent When Wilson
Talks War; Cheer When He
Expresses Hope For Peace
Entente Diplomats and Members of Cabinet Are Pres
ent as Presdent Indicts Course of Germany in Waging
Submarine Warfare; Members Bow Heads as Sink
ing Lusitania Mentioned; Expressions of Opinion.
WASHINGTON. D. C. April 19.
Representatives of the allied
countries filled the diplomatic
galleries of the house today when presi
dent Wilson addressed congress. Wom
en ruled in the public galleries, lesi
than 20 men finding places n the GOO
seats. Mrs. Wilson was in the execu
tive gallery.
Applnnd 1'renldent'n Kntry.
In the cabinet party were secretaries
Lansing, Baker, Houston and Wilson,
attorney general Gregory and postmas
ter general Burleson. The vice presi
dent and secretaries arrived at 12:50
and marched in double file down the
center aisle, members of the house ris
ing and remaining standing until they
were seated.
While the secretaries were taking
their seats, Mr. Wilson reached the cap
itol and waited in speaker's' Clark's of
fice just outside the chamber. As the
president entered the chamber, just be
fore 1 ociock, senators, representatives,
cabinet and galleries rose. An outburst
of applause followed. During this
demonstration, the president shook
hands with the speaker and the vlco
president, and then bowed to the as
semblage. Vuillence Hears Speech Silently.
The president began hl address.
stealflng slowly and distinctly. His
TOtce was heard throughoqt.be cham
ber As the president began the review
of the German submarine campaign.
there was no demonstration to punctu
at the protest of the sacrifice of Amer
ican lives. Not a sound was hard
U. S.U FUSES TU
Fl
Papers Seized From Him by
Pederal Agents Will Not
Be Restored, Announced.
New Tork, April 19. The papers
seized by the federal agents Tuesday
In the office of Wolfe von Igel, former
eecretary to Capt Franz von Papen.
recalled German military attache, will
not be restored, neither will the prose
cution of von Igel for his alleged par
ticipation in thev Welland canal plot
be dropped, assistant United States at
torney Roger B. Woods said today.
Problem Before Government.
Government officials hero faced
unique problem today resulting from
the demand gf the German embassy in
Washington for the release of Wolfe
von Igel and the return of documents
seized In his office when he was ar
rested yesterday on an indictment
charging him with complicity In a plot
to destroy the Welland canal in Can
ada. Von Igel formerly was secretary to
Capt Franz von Papen, the recalled
military attache of the German em
bassy. The case seems to binge upon the
question whether the offense charged
mxinut von Tzel was committed be
fore he was employed by the German
embassv It is charged tnat tne weu
and canal plot was organized in Sep
tember, 1914. Records of tbe state de
partment show that it received notice
of the appointment of von Igel as a
member of the embassy staff In Sep
tember, 1915.
. Federal prosecutors asserted that
Igel would be released only upon Ini
structlons from the attorney general in
Washington, Diplomatic and legal bat
tles to obtain his release are expected.
Kmhussy Deuian&i Ills ltelense,
Washington. D. C April 19. Count
von Uernstorf f. German ambassador, to
day said bis chief purpose in calling at
the state department this morning was
to repeat the demand for the release
of Wolfe von Igel. the embassy agent
arrested lrr No.- TbjU,' and the return
of von Igel's papers. In a similar de
mand made late Tuesday tho embassy
specified that the papers be resealed
and returned without being copied or
photographed.
Paper Sent TolVnshlngtou
All the papers seized from the office
of von Igel have been forwardd to the
department of justice at Washington,
district attorney- Marshal said this
afternoon This action was taken, he
said, in response to orders received to
day from the department of justice.
Contain KililenceM Of Plot.
Mr. Wood announced that he had
received Instructions from Washington
to proceed with the case Just as if no
protest had been made by the German
ambassador over the seizure of the
paper and by von Igel himself on the
ground that he was officially connected
J with the embassy. Tbe prosecutor said
iic nau vjiauiinitju me papers uveruiHiii,
that some referred to the alleged con
spiracy -to destroy the Canadian water
way, and that there was no evidence
that they, wore ambasnadqrial papers.
"If the papers are to be" returned to
the German ambassador," Mr. Wood
said, "he must swear tbat they are part
(Continued on page ff, Col. 2)
Caii Be
IEEMEEL
about the president's voice as he spoke
.the name Lusitania.
Head Ilomcd at Climax.
Every head bowed forward as the
president indicated that he was ap
proaching the keynote of his message,
the announcement of the course he will
pursue. His declaration that Germany
had made it plain that she Intended to
continue indiscriminate warfare in de
fiance of international law and the
protests of the United States, was fol-lon-ed
by the statement that this de
termination bad left only one course
open to the United States.
Asnemhly Cheer" Hope of rence,
Wrhen he pronounced the words of
the ultimatum, saying that unless Ger
many should immediately withdraw
and effect an abandonment of indis
criminate submarine warfare, this gov
ernment would have no choice but to
sever diplomatic relations, there was
still no demonstration.
When he concluded With the expres
sion of the hope that Germany would
so act to avert a regrettable break
with America, the assembly broke Into
cheers.
It was 1:14 ociock when the presi
dent concluded. Applause started from
the Democratic side and the Republi
cans took It up.
Senators Kxpresa Views.
"I do not believe the president's
course will lead to War," said senator
Chrfmbeflatn, Democrat, chairman of
the military committee.
"I think the president was fully Jus
tifies ln- " "& B' ,aB akn
said senator Wndsworth, Republican,
of New York.
"If war comes out of thin declated
senator Kenyon. Republican, of Iowa,
(Coailnned on pare 5, CoL 4.)
AR8ITRATIQ
Introduces Resolution in
Congress, but Senator
Stone Checkmates It.
Washington. D. C, April 19. Sena
tor Phelan, Democrat, of California, to
day Introduced a Joint resolution to re
affirm the belief of the United States
ln peaceful settlement of international
disputes, notwithstanding the proposed
increases in the army and navy. Sen
ator Stone, chairman of the foreign
relations committee, however, prevent
ed its Immediate consideration by an
objection.
FINDS SCHOOLS IN GOOD
SHAPE AROUND SAN ANGEL0
Austin, Texas, April 19. Prof. J. F.
McDonald, high school inspector of the
state department of education, has re
turned ,from an Inspection of high
schools lln the western portion of the
.. , ... ., i.n... ,f: i.,rnlx
fciaie. xie lnspccieu mjuui ....--In
territory tributary to San Angela
He found the school buildings in ex
cellent shape and the people taking
great interest In the welfare of the
schools; all of the schools visited had
issued a school taT and some of the
districts were making arrangements
for increasing their valuations in or
der to vote additional taxes.
GOVERNOR APPOINTS SIX
DELEGATES TO PHILADELPHIA
Austin. TeTas. April 19. Gov. Fergu
son has appointed six delegates to rep
resent Texas at the 20th annual meet
ing of the American cademy orPollti
cal and Social Science, to be held at
Philadelphia on Frhlay anil Saturday.
April 28--"t The delegates are J. S.
Cullinan, Houston: J. B Hubbard. Bel
ton: R. B Bailey, Huntsville; Xf. B.
Page, Crockett: R. E. L. Saner, Dallas.
INGRAHAM IS SELECTED
ASSISTANT WAR SECRETARY
Washington, D. C, April 19. Wil
liam M. Ingraham. former mayor of
Portland. Me., has been selected by
president Wilson for assistant secre
tary of war. The nomination was
signed today.
Mr Ingraham will succeed Henry
Breoklnridge, who resigned with form
er secretary of war uarrison. j
LISBON NAVAL ARSENAL
BURNS; SUSPECT ARSON
Pani.l France,.- April 19. A Lisbon
dispatch to the Matin says the loss oc
casioned by the burning of the naval
arsenal at Lisbon is very heavy
Scientific equipment including naval
charts and chronometer was destroyed.
The government is Intestigatlng cir
cumstances which indicate that the firs
was incendiiua.
EASTERnTpART OF BELGRADE
ALMOST DESTROYED BY FIRE
Paris, France, April 19. A destruct
ive fire In Belgrade, formerly the cap
ital of Servia, Is reported in a tlispatchi
to the Matin from Bucharest It IS said
the eastern section ef the city was al
most destroyed Seveial hundred houses
were burned and thousands of persons
are honielens
!
NO WAR -PHELfiN
1
Had On the German Question
UNITED STATES
THAT MAUI
E
President Tells Congress He Is Through. Exchanging
Notes; Germany Must Accede to American Demands
or Diplomatic Relations Will End; the Matter
Rests Solely With the Germans Now,
i
ASHINGTON, D. C. April
fore," president Wilson told congress, to say to the imperial Lierman
i-ovemment that if it is still its purpose to prosecute relentless -find in
discriminate war the government of the United States is at last forced
to the conclusion that there is but one course it can pursue, and that unlesJ the
imperial German government should now immediately declare and effect an.
abandonment of its present methods of warfare against plssenger and freight
carrying vessels this government can have no choice but to sever diplomatic
relations altogether."
NOTE SENT LAST NICHT.
President Wilson was speaking before the two nouses in joint session, in
forming them of his final ultimatum to the German government relative to its
indiscriminate policy of torpedoing ships at sea.
A note, America's last word, practically an ultimatum, and demanding
an immediate replypresumably was in the Berlin foreign office as the president
was speaking. It was sent last night in accordance with the president's plan
to have, it before the German government at the same moment he was addressing
the American congress.
ASKS NO ACTION OF CONGRESS.
The president asked no action whatever of congress. He simply informed
it of the accumulation of facts which, he said, prove that Germany's assurances
to the United States are being violated; that the submarine campaign, dPite
the earnest protests of the United States, is being conducted with renewed vrzor
in contravention of all the laws of nations and humanity, and that he irtean to
sever relations. unless it is brought within the taw. Diplomatic historv 4iow '
such a course is almost certaur to be followed by war.
The president's note and h address to congress are final. They mark
the end of diplomatic exchang. A continuance of the loagsfewding friendly
relations, the president madcclear, depends nlone.on GejiBtwy's-tWurtf-conduct.
President! Address. "- ., , ". "", "
"tht, nrasideat skid: tke dangers IttVoIved. at any rate tin
.. T .m I .
Gentlemen er.me congress;
"A situation has arisen in the foreign
relations of the country, of which itis
my plain duty to Inform you very
frankly
"It will be recalled tbat in February,
1915. the imperial German government
announced its intention to treat the
waters surrounding Great Britain and
Ireland as embraced within the seat of
nar. and to destroy all merchant ships
owned by its enemies that might be
found within any part of that portion
of the high seas, and that it warned
all vessels of neutral as well as of
belligerent ownership, to keep out of
the waters it had thtts prescribed or
else, enter them at their peril.
V. S. Protested at War Area.
"The government of the United
Statm earnestly protested. It took the
position that such a policy could not
be pursued without the practical cer
tainty of gross and palpable violation
of the law of nations, particularly If
submarine craft were to be employed
as its instruments, inasmueh as the
rules prescribed by that law, rules
founded upon principles of humanity
and established for the protection ot
the lives of noncombatants at sea,
could not, in the nature of tha case,
be observed by such vessels.
Dangers to Xeutrnls Cited.
"It based its protest on the ground
that persons of neutral nationality and
vessels of neutral ownership would be
exposed to extreme and intolerable
risks, and that no right to close any
part of the high seas against their use
or to expose them to such risks could
lawfully be asserted by any belligerent
government.
Protest Ilnsed on Established Laws.
"The law of nations In these matters,
upon which the government of the
United States based its protest, is not
of recent origin or founded upon merely
arbitrary principles set up by conven
tions. "It la based, on the contrary, upon
manifest aid imperative principles pi
humanity and has long been established
with the approval and by the express
assent of all civilised nations.
fJermnnr Acted, IJesnlte Protest.
"Notwithstanding the earnest pro
tect of our government, the imperial
German government at once proceeded
to carry out the policy It had an
nounced. It expressed the hope that
The Real-News, All
Of It, In El Paso Herald
TUB KL PASO HERALD is the only paper ia the bouthue-t that re)oitnl
the ilcNew murder' trial" at Alamogordo last week. jut as it was
the only paper to give a full report of the Porter murder trial at I.as
Cruees some time ago.
TUe El Paso Herald is the only El Paso paper reportin: tin- Smith cm
bezzleinent trial at Alamogordo, and its reports are by far t'ull'T and more
complete than' those of any other paper ia the Southwest.
The Herald the only El lao paper that reported ""the nm"' political
meeting of Monday lygbt jurt as it happened and told thr'truth about it.
, Like its Mexican ntwi. Tlic Herald'i pi-neral news ami texture news 1
daily far superior in both quality and quantity to that ol an, other paper in
the Southwest.
The Herald ir dedicated to the publication of the n.w. ALL THE NEWS,
ALL THE TIME, and fulfils this duty. However, as some of our friends
often suggest, inavbe it is a pood thing t,o call attention no asionallv to t)t
, tliintjt. wc do BETTER,THAN ANYONE ELSEk hece the excuse "for- tin
little reference to tke pare The Herald ia settinj;.
There is more intercV today in theHjtal of T. R. H. Smith at Alamo
gordo than in any other thing going on hi the state of .ov Mexico. et tin
El Paso Herald is the only paptr recognizing this inteirit ami .-mug the tva.
plcto ifport.
SENDS ULTIMATUM
II! MUST CEASE
19. "I have deemed it my duty, there
I Jsinrrara tl TTasBTI t fit I 1ASMal VAII 111 t
I "J"s"j; .zr -Lr.,zl..-rZZ"i" ......
rcuwra ku tt nuiiiiiiutu oy 110 man u
ttens whieh it had issued to Its sub
marine commanders and assured tho
government of the United States that
It) would take every possible precau
tion both to respect tbe rights of neu
trals, and to safeguard the lives of
nonoombatants.
Hopes Not Justified.
"What has actually happened m tuo
year which has since elapsed, h i ;
shown that those hopes were not Justi
fied those assurances insusceptible . f
being fulfilled.
"In pursuance of the policy of s
marine warfare against the com mi i
of Its adversaries, thus announced u '
entered upon by the imperial Gem 1 1
government. In spite of tbe sole n
protest of this government, the cui i
manders of German undersea es.'is
have attacked merchant ships i i
greater and greater activity, not oniv
upon the high seas surrounding Gr't
Britain and Ireland, but wherever thev
could encounter them in, a war that his
grown more and more ruthless, raon
and more indiscriminate as the months
have gone by, less and less observam
of restraints of any kind, and hae
delivered their attacks without com
punction against vessels of every na
tionality and bound upon every sort of
errand.
Often Xo Bscape Allowed.
"Vessels of neutral ownership, even
vessels of ncotral ownership bounit
from neutral port to aeutral port, havo
been destroyed along with vessels or
belligerent ownorehip ln constantly in
creasing numbers. Sometimes the mer
chantman attacked has been warned
and summoned to surrender before be
ing fired on or tqrpedoed: sometime1
passengers or crewto have been vouci
safed the poor security of being al
lowed to take to the ship's boats be
fore ahe was sent to tbe bottom.
"But again and again no warning
has been given; no escape even to tr.
ship's boats allowed to those on board
Tragedy llnu Followed Tragedy.
"What this government foresaw
must happen has happened. t Traged
has followed tragedy on the seas in
J such fashion, wlfh such attendant cir
cumstances, as to make it grossly evi
dent that warfare of such a sort, if
warfare it be, cannot be carried on
witbout the most palpable violation of
(Contbined on page 3, Col. 1.)
