A FTA** 7S*
IK
Hi
u.
N«JR
TH^
*1 J.1*
*5n,f ^?*4 .S^4V" -i
EVENING
EDITION
VOL. 11, NO. 92.
,.M
CHIEF
of siAff
TO INVESTIGATE
Major General Scott Sent to
San Antdhio to Get
Information.
FUNSTON TO KEEP
ENTIRE CHARGE
Scott's Report Will do Much
Toward Determining the
Course to Follow.
Washington, April 19.—Major Gen
eral Hush h. Scott, chief of staff of
the army, In order to get Information
as to the situation on the border and
In Mexico. Secretary Baker isailed
this statement
"General Scott leaves for San An
tonio this evening at 6:16 at my re
quest. He will spend several days
•with General Funston and return.
This trip is made solely for the pur
pose of getting as accurate informa
tion ae is possible for the use of the
department. General Funston re
mains in full charge of the affairs of
his department, including the expedi
tion Into Mexico. He has the full
Confidence of the department and his
dispositions have the department's
entire approval."
Would Not Discuss Mission.
Baker would "not discuss General
Scott's mission, beyond his formal
statement. It Is assumed, however,
his **port,j&tt9r a. conference
4 «ijjft3i General Funston, Will go far to
ward determining the sours* ta„.Jfe»i
pursued lif Mexico.
It Is known that Funston has been
Urging the department that he be
permitted to shift his headquarters
and border base in order to shorten
his line of communications. The de
partment has not thus far approved
the suggestion, although the request
was before the cabinet yesterday.
Funston's report on this subject has
not been given out here, as Baker
has declined to discuss these phases
of the Mexican' problem.
Columbus, M., April 19.—Truck
men returning to the border yester
day brought reports of quiet prevail
ing .along the American line of com
munication. The trip from the front
was uneventful, they said, and ru
mors of trouble which have been cur
rent in Columbus were denied. It
was pointed out that while every prep
aration has been made by the various
detachments for any developments,
an increased feeling of security was
expressed all along the border.
Much Interest was aroused here by
the arrival of Tandy Sanford, a Mex
ican half-breed. Sanford Is being
held incommunicado and under a
heavy guard, military authorities re
fusing to make any statement con
cerning him. It is known, however,
that he is suspected of guiding the
Villa band upon Columbus.
Sick and Injured Returned.
Thirty-one sick and Injured men
were brought from the front yester
day. Many of them had been treated
in the Held hospital In Colonla Dub
Ian and were suffering from minor
diseases. None was. in a dangerous
condition and none had been Injured
In action as was first reported, medi
cal officers said.
Major Clyde S. Ford of the medical
corps of Wheeling, W. Va., arrived
from the field on his way to London,
where he has been detailed as medi
cal observer with the British army.
Major,. Ford was American medical
observer-with the ..Turkish army In
the first Bulgarian Campaign.
CITY OFFlCLAXl SUICIDES.
Chamberlain of Glensfalls, N. Y.'Ends
His life.
.Glensfalls,
N.
Y-, April
New York* April Hi—A municipal
movement to provide pensions for
widowed mothers with children was
begun yesterday wtthl the adoption by
the/ board ofaldsrmenof a resolution
If««71I,c!Lwo,u'i J" appropriated
1100.000 to beplaced at the disposal
of .the:Child welfare board. If the
resolution Is acted on favorably next
week by the board of estimate, the
proposed allowances .will be granted.
THE WBATHKH.
Iforth Dakota: Rain this oft-
WlndSk .V.
uimrB^earr RBADiirGg.
V'^V^V
ebraary
rmed oils
ment Info:
te*"ma_ln
1#.—While
his accounts were being audited.
Sterling H. Higley, city chamberlain
of Glensfalls, for the past six years,
shot himself through the head yes
terday and died instantly. His body
was found in his office vault by his
secretary, Miss Kathleen Kelleher.
Higley had left notes addressed to
Miss Kelleher, telling her not to open
the vault, but to send for the police.
Higley, who. was about 40 years old.
la said to hive sustained losses:
through Investments. He is survived
by a widow and three children.
-WIDOWS' PENSIONS.
I
Full Text of President Wilson's
Message to Congress Reviews the
History of Germany's Campaign
Washington, April 19.—Tlie president's message follows:
"A situation has arisen In the foreign relations of the country of
which it is my plain duty to inform you very frankly.
"It Will be recalled that in February, 1915, the Imperial German
government announced Its intention to treat the waters surrounding
Greftt Britain and Ireland as embraced within the seat of war and to
deOTroy all merchant Ships owned by its enemies that might be found
wltlitai any part of that portion of the high seas and that it warned all
vessels of neutral as well as of belligerent ownership to keep oat of
the waters it had thus proscribed or else enter them at their peril. The
government of the United States earnestly protested.
... "I* took the portion that such a policy oould not be pursued
without the practical certainty of gross and palpable violations of the
law of nations, particularly If submarine craft were to be employed
as its instruments In enforcing it, inasmuch as the rules prescribed by
that law, rules founded upon the prnciples of humanity established
for the protection of the lives of non-combatants at sea, oould not in
the natmie of the case be observed by such vessels. It based its pro
test on the ground that persons of neutral nationality and vessels of
neutral ownership would be. exposed to extreme and intolerable risks
and that no right to close any part of the high seas against their use,
or to expose them to such rides could lawfully be asserted by any
belligerent government. The law of nations In these matters, upon
•which the government of the United states based its protest, Is not of
recent origin or founded upon merely arbitrary principles set up by
convention. It Is based on the contrary, upon manifest and imperative
principles of humanity and has long been established with the appro
val and by the express assent of all civilised nations.
"Notwithstanding the earnest protest of our government, the Im
perial Gennan government at once proceeded to carry out the policy It
had announced, it expressed the hope that the dangers Involved, at any
rate the dangers to neutral vessels would be reduced to a minimum
by the Instructions which it had issued to its submarine commanders
and assured the government of the United States that it would take
every possible precaution both to respect the rights of neutrals and to
safeguard the lives of non-combatants.
"What has actually happened In the year which has since elapsed
hasAowntha* those hopes were not Justified, those assurance Insus
cepnble of being fulfilled. In pursuance of the policy of submarine
warfare against the commerce of its adversaries, thus announced and
entered upon by the Imperial German government In spite of the
solemn protest of this government, the commanders of German under
sea vessels have attacked merchant Alps with greater and greater
activity, not only upon the high seas surrounding Great Britain and
Ireland, but wherever they could enoounter them In a way has
grown more and more ruthless, more and more Indiscriminate as
months have gone by, less and less observant of restraints of any
kind and have delivered their attacks without compunction against
vessels of every nationality and bound upon every sort of errand.
"Vessels of neutral ownership, even vesstis of neutral ownership
bomid from a neutral port to a neutral port, have been destroyed aloiw
with vessels of belligerent ownership in constantly Inri rasing num
bers.
^Spmetbnfcs
Summoned to
which it announced its purpose thus still further to relax the
restraints it. had previously professed its willingness and desire to put
upon the operations of its submarines carried the plain implication
wiat at least vessels which were not armed would still be exempt from
destruction without warning and that personal safety would be aooord
ed their passengers and crews but even that limitation, if it was ever
practicable to observe tt, has in fact constituted no check at all upon
the destruction of ships of every sort.
"Again and again the Imperial German government has given this
government Its solemn assurances that at least passenger ships would
not be thus dealt with, and yet it has again and again permitted Its
undersea commanders to disregard those assurances with entire im
punity.
"Great liners like the Insltania and the Arbalc and mere ferry
boats like the Sussex have been attacked without a moment's warn
ing, sometimes before they had even become aware that they were In
the preaeoQO of sin turned vessel of the enemy and the lives of non
combatants, passengers and crew have been sacrificed wholesale, In a
manner which the government of the United States cannot but Maid
as wapton Mid without the slightest color of Justification. No limit
of any kind has in fact* been set to the indiscriminate pursuit and de
struction of merchant men of all kinds and nationalities within the
waters, constantly extending in suea, where these operations have been
carried^ on smd the roll of Americans who have lost their Uvea on
Alps tons attacked and destroyed has grown month by month until
the ominous toll his mounted tato the hundreds.
"One of the latest and most shocking instances of this method of
warfare was that at the destruction of tne French crosschaimel steam
er. Susscoc. It must stand forth as the sinking of the stesuner Xiusl
ranis did, as so singularly tragical and unjustifiable as to constitute a
terrible example of the inhumanity of submarine warfare *s the com
manders of German, vessels have for the past twelve months been con
ducting it. If this instance stood alone, some explanation, some dls
avowaj. by the German government, some evidence of criminal mistake
or wilful .disobedience on the port of the commander of the vessel that
torpedo might be. sought or entertained but unhappily it does
J"* stand alone. Recent events make the conclusion inevitable that it
*?. mly one lnstanoe. even though it be one of the most extreme and
dlstreertng^instances, of the spirit and method of warfare which the
imperial German govevnment has mistakenly adopted and which from
too, first asposed that government to the reproach of all neu
tral rights aside In pursuit of its Immediate objects.
'if V* WtV1 -V
*^r
the been warned
or, torpedoed
merchantmen attacked
before being fired on
or orews ha*e been vodchsafe^
to tUfr boats before afie^wwi vtift1
warning iMabe^si ^renj no escap* Aven
toots allowed to those on board.
"What this government foresaw most happen has happened. Tfcac
Wdy has followed tragedy on the seas in anch a fashion and with such
attendant circumstances, as to make It grossly evident that warfare
of such a sort, If warfare it be, cannot be carried on without the most
palpable violation at the dictates alike of right and humanity. What
ever, the disposition and intention of the impiertal German gowniimgnt,
it has manifestly proved impossible for it to keep such methods of
attack upon the commerce of Its enemies within the bounds set by
either the reason or the heart of
5
i®
and
the Imperial German
... Jb government and the other neutral governments
orthe world that It had reason to believe that the government of Great
Brltaurhad armed all merchant vessels at British ownership and had
given them secret ordera to attaok any submarine of the enemy they
might encounter upon the seas, and that the Imperial German gov
ernment felt justified in the drcum stances In treating all merchant
men of belligerent ownership as auxiliary vessels- of war, which it
would have the right to destroy without warning.
"Hie law of nations has long recognized the right of merchantmen
to carry arms for protection and to use them to repel attack, though
to use them, In such circumstances, at their own risk but the Imperial
Gennan governuhent claimed the right to set these understandings
aside under circumstances which it deemed extraordinary. Even the
United States has been very patient. At
27? ft*** ffl! distressing experlnice of tragedy after tragedy In
which its own dtlaens were Involved, it has sought to restradn from
any extremeoourse of aotipn or of, protest by thoughtful consider
drt^unsiances .of this unprecedented war,
J3® that it said or did by the sentiments of genuine
ISSr'feW} the pegp|e of the United states always have enter
tained and ooMlnue to entertaln towards the Germstn nation.
o| course, soappted the wccesstie explanations and asaur
an2B5
Imperlsl German government as given in entire sincerity
_falth. and has hoped, even agidnst hope, that It would prove possi
ble for the Gesroan jw vernment to ordsr and control the stcta of its
naval commanders^Sy to square lta policy with the princes of hu
manlt% as embodied In the law ot ations, It has Ixwn wUUug to wait
until the slgnUtauioe at thm Cacts btocame absolutely anml£ri3ble and
susceptible 6f but One intetrprstatibn.
»w»?ar. pre sua
oeptalMe of Mt^ne Intarp^TAOOII. IFM lttperiil GWBMII gofciiuaeai
W restraints upon Ua
SCUBA clnijw fMgnt pip ppMBQffflp hpfc
painfully evident that the posMw ^OUoh thk government took at the
very outset Is lngvttablfr namely, t|Jt the use of submarines for the
red lmmnnlties at pon-osmbotants.
it W ttfty, thesrsfore, to say to the her.
proasoata rrtesetiWs
1S&JSSJ-5
Momwcc iWi whit ttm
lertheMcred
recogmaed ghstatso of
l*atlostftwadt»ths
(Oonttnaedon
rV:?^ T5^
va'4 ^4**^ ••',•? A^nfet $
«,(!
ES DTCLAFLQ)
Hastings Village, on Hud
son, PitTolled by Troops
BecattiB of Strike Riots.
Hastings: On Hudson, New York,
April i9.—-Martial law was declared
within the' lnqlts.of Hastings village,
and state t^pops were called upon for
duty after, the rioting had assumed
serious proportions among the strik
ers of the National Conduit and Cable
oompsmy. ^he mob attacked the
company's plant with bullets and
stones'. The plant was closed late
yesterday alter striking employes and
their sympathisers had stoned the fac
tory buildings and battled with depu
ty sheriffs a few hours earlier. About
1,000 men who had remained at work
will be thrown out of employment.
Officers of the company, which em
ploys between ,800 and S,000 persons,
announced after a conference with
members of the state board of media
tion and village and county officials,
that the plant would remain closed
Indefinitely, or until the strikers
agTeed to suscspt a compromise ofTer.
The demands of the strikers Include
a 62-hour week Instead of 64 hours
and a wage- ihoreaae of 60 cents an
hour.
The coinpany de'clined to shorten
the day but announced its willingness
to pay 2 1-4 cents more an hour. This
offer the strikers refused.
Bernstori? Make* Deiiiind
for Return oF Papers
Taken From Him.
.Washington, April 19.—Count von
:Bernstorff, the German ambassador,
called upon Secretary Lansing to make
a further formal demand for the re
turn of the papers which the depart
ment of Justice* agents-' seised from
:Wolfe von Igel, private Secretary to
Captain.von Papen, the withdrawn
^military'attache, In New York yester
day.
The department of Justice practical
ly decided to hold von Igel unless the
state department specifically demands
his release, on the ground that the
crime with which he is charged was
committed a year before he became a
diplomatic agent.
POLISH RELIEF APPROVED.
Russian Government Will Give Full
Ijeeway to Rockefeller Aid.
Petrograd, April 19.—-The plan for
sending foodstuffs to Russian Poland,
submitted to the Russian government,
has met with approval, says the semi
official Petrograd News agency, which
"in view of the sensational informa
tion that has been disseminated that
the Russian government has placed
obstacles in the way of American
philanthropists desiring to assist the
inhabitants of Russian Poland occu
pied by Germany," makes the follow
ing explanation:
T*The
relief plan will take the fol­
lowing shape: The Rockefeller found
ation will undertake the task of sup
plying food to the inhabitants of six
Polish city centers. The Germans, on
their part, are to make provision for
the remainder of the occupied coun
try, at the same time insuring entire
freedom of the American enterprise
guaranteeing that foodstuffs shall not
be exported from Poland and forbid
ding their troops using loeal food
stuffs."
Ijondon, April —That a grave
cabinet ertals exists |s undeniable but,
according to an authQritatlve state
ment last night no resignations, either
ministerial or military, have yet been
tendered, and it will probably be sev
eral days before the crisis is ended.
The Mattuls of Crewe, lord presi
dent of the council, in his statement
to the houee.of lords yesterday which
was the first official admission of the
gravity and complsxlty of the prob
lems dividing the: ministers. Intimated
the possibility that his promised state
ment, in which case' the house would
set the follo^ng_MQndiay.
Both sldZTfuS? momentous con
flict. are. marshalling all their avail
able Wroes for the peril am entai-y
struggle ever Sir Kdwsurd Carson's
motion for KBlvenal mllitary aervkse.
8tronf *|ilos are o#t and all the
members ef the bmu» of oommons
servlfic a,t tfcft front fcav» been granted
leave^o rafnaln lit Lntsn until a
dlvtaton la tt&wn.
WIHW onten naUr
srouadJMMUMer ef^tmltioaa DavM
iyd Geonr* aad irinsten Openesr
urobtlV 'a^d the poftSUtUUy at Mr.
iyd Qeorcejraeeeeding Mn A*«aith
as the. head -ef the government.
Whllettoe «on*artotionWtatts«k
1
Possibility of Lloyd George
Succeeding Asquith is Feature
Of Gossip Aneni Cabinet Crisis
GRAND FORKS, N. D., WEDNESDAY EVENING, APRIL 10, 1016. TEN PAGES—PRICE FIVE CENTS.
MRS. PEARL BLOUGH
CONFIRMED FOR POST
OF CITY POLICEWOMAN
Airs. Pearl Blougb was nominated
for the position of police matron of
Grand Forks by Mayor James A.
Dinnie and the nomination was con
firmed by the city council at the
annual meeting of that body last
evening.
Mrs. Blough has held the posi
tion for .some time and has won a
reputation for herself as one of the
most efficient policewomen of the
northwest.
VILXIA GUIDE IMPRISONED.
Columbus, N. M., April 19.—Tandy
Sanford, a Mexican, suspected of
guiding Villa and his. band. into Co
lumbus the night of the raid, was
brought here yesterday aboard a
truck train. He was placed in the
guard, house and held incommunicado.
and threatening, there also are strong
forces awklng for the retention of
the present boailtlon ministry—first,
Mr. Asquith's known skill in sur
mounting political' difficulties and
nolding his team together, and. sec
ond, the problem of. finding an alter
government to- the present
coalition, and the repugnance felt in
l*rge seetlone of the country to a
change in the governmental at a criti
cal stage of the nation's fate.
In the event of the disappearance
of Mr. Asquith as a result of hft re
fusal to remain a member of a gov
ernment resorting to universal serv
ice, Mr. Uoyd George is regarded in
many quarters as his natural succes
5?rV .^ MPainst tljls solution Is the
itoc
1
that a very Strong section of the
i«t party la e^gr"
_Jovd (Mn
qulth
unionist party is ehkTrMy opposed to
Mr. Lloyd Getorge as it is to MR AS-
Moreover. It la known that Andrew
I*w, whe le a conseriptionlst
In principle and was lsader of the
entering the
i.V
... *.). rUl
sns
qulth. attaches the utmost importsmoe
1» the national Mn»eesltX the mSn
prebent e«alltlon niln-
W «fcW
rV*.1 .-. '•*arf.
SEVERED SHE DOES NOT COMPLY
NOTHHC IS ASKED Of COHGRtSS
Diplomatic History of World Shows That Such Course
Generally is Followed by War—Wilson's Note
and Address Mark End of Negotiations
WASHINGTON, APRIL 19.—PRESIDENT WILSON TOLD CONGRESS,
ASSEMBLED IN A JOINT SESSION, SHORTLY AFTER 1 O'CLOCK THIS
AFTERNOON, THAT HE HAD GIVEN GERMANY IRREVOCABLE NOTI
FICATION THAT THE UNITED STATES WILL BREAK OFF DIPLOMAT
IC RELATIONS IF GERMANY'S ILLEGAL SUBMARINE CAMPAIGN IS
CONTINUED.
THE NOTE, AMERICA'S LAST WORD, IS PRACTICALLY AN ULTI
MATUM, DEMANDING AN IMMEDIATE REPLY, AND PRESUMABLY
WAS IN THE BERLIN FOREIGN OFFICE AS THE PRESIDENT WAS
SPEAKING, IT WAS DISPATCHED LAST NIGHT IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE PRESIDENT'S PLANS TO HAVE IT BEFORE THE GERMAN
GOVERNMENT AT THE SAME MOMENT HE WAS ADDRESSING THE
AMERICAN CONGRESS.
WILSON ASKED NO ACTION WHATEVER OF CONGRESS. HE SIM
PLY INFORMED IT OF THE ACCUMULATION OF FACTS PROVING
THAT GERMANY'S ASSURANCES TO THE UNITED STATES WERE BE
ING VIOLATED THAT THE SUBMARINE CAMPAIGN, DESPITE THI£
EARNEST PROTESTS fig TPH& UNITED STATES, IS^BSING CONDUCT
ED WITH RENEWED VIGOR IN CONTRAvENTIONOF ALL THB LAWfr
OF NATIONS AND HUMANITY, AND THAT HE MEANS TO SEVER RE
LATIONS UNLESS IT IS BROUGHT WITHIN THE LAW.
THE DIPLOMATIC HISTORY OF THE WORLD SHOWS THAT SUCH
A COURSE IS ALMOST CERTAIN TO BE FOLLOWED BY WAR.
THE PRESIDENT'S NOTE AND HIS ADDRESS TO CONGRESS ARE
FINAL. THEY MARK THE END OF DIPLOMATIC EXCHANGES.
THE CONTINUANCE OF THE LONG-STANDING FRIENDLY RELA
TIONS, THE PRESIDENT MADE CLEAR, DEPENDS ALONE UPON GER
MANY'S CONDUCT.
GREAT OVATION FOR FRESIOENT.
When the president entered the chamber of the house just befoni
1 clock. Senators, representatives, the cabinet the galleries arose.
An outburst of applause gave way to loud cheering. During this demon
stration the president shook hands with Speaker Clark and Vice
President Marshall, and then bowed to the big smwiililiitui He Im
mediately launched Into his address, speaking slowly and dearly,
(XJMMENTS OP CONGRESSMEN.
"The sending of a note to Germany was as mild a position as the
president could take." said Representative Hood, chairman of the
foreign affairs committee. "I think it will meet with the approval of
congress and the country."
"The president's position is a complete repudiation of Iris note of
January 18. sent through Secretary Laiisbig, regarding the aiming of
merchant vessels and submarine warfare," said Representative Cooper
of Wisconsin, ranking republican member of the foreign affairs com
mittee. "The whole situation resolves itself Into a question of whether
the United States will set up a code of regulations which it may Have
to abide by when its sole defense is the submarine."
PRESIDENT NOT NEUTRAL*. SAYS MANN.
"I think the government should be neutral." said Republican
Ieader Mann. "The president never has been neutral. He has been
on the English side all the time. What he said about Germany, while
grossly exaggerated. Is Just'a complaint- But he could say Just the
same about England and our shipping."
REVIEWS GERMANY'S SUBMARINE CAMPAIGN.
He began with a review of the German submarine campaign from
the beginning of the war to date. There was no demonstration to
punctuate Wilson's recital or the sacrifice of American lives. Not a
sound was beard above the president's voicc as he spoke the namr
Liusitania, and he went on through the Arabic case down to the Sus
sex case. Every head was bowed forward as the president indicsUed
that he was approaching the keynote of his message, the announce,
will
ment of the course he pursue.
ONIiY ONE COURSE TO PURSUE.
"I have deemed it my duty, thereftMm," the president at *M«
Point in his message, "to say to the Imperial Gennan government *fr-t
If it Is still Its purpose to prosecute relentlessly that Indiscriminate
warfare, the government of the United States is at least forced to the
conclusion that there Is but one 0001*80 to pursue, whkdi Is thstt unless
the Imperial German government should now Immediately declare and
effect an abandonment of Its present methods of warfare against
enger and freight-carrying vessels this .government can have no
but to sever diplomatic relations altogether.
When he pronounced the words of the ultimatum, there still
no demonstration, only a tense silence, and a reflection of tbe gravftyt
of his words.
ASSEMBDY BREAKS INTO CHEERS.
Wben he concluded wttb the expression of the has
would so act to avoid a regrettable break with Amen
broke into cheers.
It was 1:14 o'clock when the president concluded.
Just 15 minutes, lite applause started fn» the
repubUosui members then joined. Democrats began rlslis
feet, and soon the entire am iiiTilaati was Hie an
ed a minute, and, then, aa the president pa—ed oat of the
died away.
Speaker dark declared the Joint urrwlnn at
tors fthW oat. Ihe galleries quickly wees deserted.
Speaker Oark referred the addnas to the
tee.
Speaker CUrk aad Democratic Leader Kitddn
ment on the addreea.
"tt is a mistake to break off ilHiliifili mlaHniM dim
said Repabttoaa. I«ader lOaan. "That to simply to aait la
is perfectly evident thatthe infill ml a
is trying to, work up "to a^ point where he CM get MB*
many du
Soring a preatdentlal caaapsdga."
CM
Confees WUh CeosmMee
Washington,. April It—Prsatdent
WUaon has sent *. note to Germany,
warning her that unlsis attacks on
merehtLntmjut, oairytiig Americana, in
violation^ of Inttrn^Ul law axe
stopped dlploinatie/ ^ttoat will be
|iy8l6di ",rv.'v.--i\-•
The prs^leni n«^kiM/tliia tebt.'td
imiton Wmtaaij
committees, -at
Whits Hpuae befOre,
presidsnt,M an
gross at 1 p. m.,
tails of tlM net*:
dress contained
the alternative
,» ,n
,H
vt
*9
i.
