r»-*-
«^M»»J«iuM«l^ "S^-9
4,000 COPIES
of this edition
are printed
and circulated
VOLUME 22. "& .16 PAGES
During the past six or eight years,
great changes have taken place loc
ally, and in the state and natio 1 at
large. The Willmar schools have in
troduced courses in industrial sub
jects, and the training of teachers lor
the rural schools While these chang
es have been taking place, the city
and school population have been in
creasing at a somewhat uniform rate.
Relative to the growth in school pop
ulation for the future may be consid
ered several factors which are f.luinst
sure to make a large school popula
tion, both in the grades and 'n the
high schoo', but more particularly in
the upper grades and high school
Such factor*, as the general growth
in population, both in the city and 'n
the rural districts, may be readilv
comprehended. But, there are other
factors which will undoubtedly have
as great effects upon the numbers who
attend school as this1 one of general
growth of population. First and fo/e
School Laws Increase Attendance,
most among these other factors is the
compulsory attendance law which re
quires that every child, between me
ages of eight and sixteen years, shall
attend school every day of the school
year unless* properly excused by the
School Board. This law tends to
wards keeping pupils in the schools
through the sixth, seventh and eighth
grades directly. But, because of this
law, many pupils who are thus en
forced to complete the eighth grade
work will undoubtedly enter and pur
fcue courses in the high school. This
law is already showing its force and,
no doubt, as the communities become
accustomed to the workings of the
law, it will produce greater results.
The Alumni Influence.
Another factor, which may not be
thought of at first, is the fact tlhat 'n
every high school community there
grows up a large number of formpr
graduates who in their turn influence
the younger generations to attend
high school in greater numbers than
,-^'ever before. Ini a community where
the parents were not high school
gradtuates, and where there were no
former graduates in the family, the
children are inclined towards enter
ing business at an earlier age and do
not see the value of high school train
ing. Oftem times the parents are op
posed to this training and actually
exert a considerable influence towards
keeping them from continuing thMr
education beyond the grammar
grades. In connection with this fact
of a large alumni population, which
grows up in each community, compe
tition becomes more severe for the
more desireable occupations and the
pupils who leave school before com
pleting the high school course find
that they are at a decided disadvan
tage when applying for these posi
tions,
THE FUTURE OF
THE WILLMAR
SCHOOLS
By Supt. G. A. FOSTER
In attempting to discuss the future
of the Willmar schools, it is necessary
to keep in mind the trend of modern
education in the United States and
Minnesota, as well as the recent his
tory of our own school.
Training Teachers.
In recent years girls who have want
ed to teach have found it necessary
to take the high school course be
fore they can receive a certificate to
teach, whereas but a few years ago
it was nothing uncommon for girls to
leave the grammar grades, take the
teachers'* examination and enter at
once into the teaching profession.
This last requirement by the State
has already had its effect upon the
numbers attending high school and,
at the present time, the law is so
strict that it is almost compulsory to
complete the equivalent of a high
school course before taking a profes
sional year's work. The colleges of
law, pharmacy and even the more
moderm business colleges are insist
ing upon the equivalent of a high
school course, before they will enroll
students.
Children Move In.
The fact that the growth of a city
like Willmar is made up, to a consid
erable degree, of retired farmers
/sometimes seems to preclude the idea
of 'growth in the school population.
This may be true to some extent but,
as a matter of fact, a large number
of these farmers retire and move to
town for the sole purpose of finding
better facilities for their children's
education The older people from the
farm also furnish a home for their
relative's children while attending
high school. Again the increased
wealth of both city and country peo*
pie makes it possible for a much larg
er proportion of the young people to
secure high school training All of
these facts, taken together with reg
ular examinations and county grada-
±*n,
G. A. FOSTER
ation exercises, add greatly to the
number of rural young people who
find themselves properly prepared for
high school training.
High School Doubles Every Ten Yeirs
It would seem then, from the fore
going statements, that it may reason
ably be expected that the city popula
tion, and' especially the school popula
tion of Willmar, will steadily increase.
The high school records show that
the high school enrollment has approx
imately doubled each ten years, and
there seems to be no reason for sap
posing that it will not keep up this
same ratio during the next ten years
at least. In spite of anything which
we may do or not do, the numerical
strength of the Willmar schools is
sure to increase, but whether the
schools shall correspondingly increase
scholastically remains largely in the
hands of the school officials and citi
zens of Willmar.
Semester Promotions.
There are a few things which it
seems to me could be undertaken at
any time with profit. Among these I
wish to mention semester promotions.
If the pupils throughout the grades
could be promoted twice a year, in
stead of but once a year as they are
now, much time could be saved.
Bright pupils could gain a half year
at a time quite easily, while slower
pupils, who are now unable to finish
the work of a grade in a year and con
sequently have to spend another year
in a grade, would then have to lose
but one-half of a year. The decrease
in loss of time by some, and the in
crease in time gained by others would
probably amount to considerable dur
ing the eight grades.
Would Re-organize Upper Grades.
Another departure which, would oe
of value, and which I think will come
in the near future, will be a reorgan
ization of the upper grades and high
school. This reorganization may ef
fect only the seventh and eighth
grades, or it may effect these two
grades and the whole high, school.
Either departmental work done in the
seventh, and eighth grades or the div
iding of the upper six grades into the
^-%^. ft~
junior high school and the senior high
school, would make it possible to car
ry out some improvements in the
workings of these grades. There are
always to be found, in the seventh
and' eighth grades, boys and girls who
simply are not fitted to carry on the
regular academic work of these grades
as commonly given in a graded school
system. They are not old enough to
leave school, and are not fitted to go
out into the world and make a suc
cessful living in competition with their
more educated competitors. Thus,
not being adapted to the work as now
given in the grades, neither prepared
to enter upon the competitive work
of life, they seem to be crushed be
tween two mill stones. With a reor
ganization of the grammar grades as
mentioned it would be possible to of
fer differentiated courses. The reg
ular course for those fitted for it. and
a special course for those not so fit
ted. A course which would develop
Superintendent Willmar Schools.
7.&&S&
their natural abilities and fit them to
make useful and honorable citizens
in life. With this reorganization ac
complished it would also be possible
to promote pupils in the upper grades
by subjects, rather than by grades.
When a boy has finished arithmetic,
give him a final certificate in that sub
ject and allow him to continue w*tn
his history, grammar or geography,
or any other subject, until that work
has been completed. This plan, like
the semester promotion plan, would
also save time for the pupils passing
through the grades. Further than
this, it would be possible in selecting
teachers for the seventh and eighth
grades, to select them according to
the subjects which they are best pre
pared to teach. The teacher best pro
pared to teach geography, devoting all
of her time to that subject, while the
teacher best prepared for history
would do likewise, and so on through
the whole list. The industrial sub
jects, which are now offered in these
grades, could be carried cut easier by
this plan, and perhaps other subjects
which are not now offered could be
introduced if desired.
A Commercial Course.
The time is now ripe for the intro
duction in the high school of a course
in commercial subjects. Students
wishing to enter commercial pursuits
should plan their work in the first
year in such a way as to make a good
foundation for the more strictly com
mercial subjects of the last two years
of the course.
Developing Physique.
During the last few decades living
conditions have greatly changed In
both city and country homes. A few
years ago every family kept a pile ot
wood and a bucksaw, and cows, and
horses, and) the boys had regular and
steady work to do both night and
morning. In recent years the furnace
has taken the place of the wood stove,
and the horses have given way to the
automobile, while milk is purchased
from the milkman. Thus it is that t!*e
boys, especially in a city like Will
mar, have very little regular work to
do. A sound vigorous mind can not
be maintained in a weak and puny
body. It is1, therefore, of vital im
portance that the older people see to
it that the children have some means
of developing a strong physique. A
large number of modern school sys
tems now provide well equipped gy n
nasiums, and well equipped play
grounds, and special physical instruc
tors for the purpose of seeing that
the physical side of the child is not
neglected. This is a need that is
more pressing than we sometimes
realize, and the time should come
soon when Willmar will give this mat
ter its careful consideration.
More Room Needed.
These are some of the needs of tLo
Willmar schools in the future, and to
these needs should be added the need
of room to properly house the child
ren who are now forced to attend
school in the basement of the library
building. While this room is below
the level of the ground it is very dif
ficult to ventilate it in the best way.
It is not properly equipped with toilet
and cloak rooms, has insufficient
blackboard space, but worst of all
provides absolutely no opportunity for
play ground activities. Forty-five or
fifty children are here forced to play
in the streets, or upon the private
property of neighbors, or in the court
house grounds.
Better Quarters For Normal Dep't.
It is also very necessary that the
normal training department should be
removed from the attic of the central
building. This attic has no ventilat
ing flues to extract the foul air, is
poorly lighted, and would be a very
dangerous place in case of fire. It &
reached by a very steep and dark
stairway, and better quarters should
be provided as soon as possible.
Lincoln Building Overcrowded.
The Lincoln building has been over
crowded for the last several years.
Pupils from this building have to be
housed in the high school or library
buildings and, as the the Lincoln dis
trict coBtimies to grow, more and more
of these children must be transferred
each year.
Six years ago the Garfield building
contained just about one-half the
number of pupils that it has at the
present time, and it has now reached
its full capacity, and in the future
pupils from this building must be tak
en to the high school building in or
der to relieve the pressure here.
The Lafayette building is running
at full capacity, and even more than
full capacity, in the highest room.
High School Building Too Small.
The high school building, with a
capacity by law for one hundred sev
enty pupils, has an enrollment of two
hundred fifty this year, eighteen of
whom are housed in the attic of the
central building.
Industrial Building Demands.
The manual training department
needs, and is now using the whole
ground floor of the industrial build
ing while the domestic science de
partment will need, in the near fut
ure, all of the second floor of that
building. This makes no proper pro
vision for the housing of the agricul
tural department.
Suggests a Junior High School.
There is, therefore, needed at the
present time new building quarters
capable of relieving the pressure up
on both the high school and grades.
It would seem that a junior high
school, including the seventh, eighth
and ninth grades, would best serve
this double purpose. There are sev
enty-five pupils in the eighth grade,
central building, eighty pupils in the
seventh grades, something over forty
pupils in the seventh and eighth
grades, Lafayette building, and about
eighty pupils in the high school fresh
man class. These, together with al
lowance for a future growth of fifty
pupils, would require a building suf
ficiently large to accommodate three
hundred twenty-five pupils. Could
such a building be made, and the
freshman class be removed from the
high school, and also the pupils re
moved from the second floor of the
central building, the pupils from the
library building could be moved into
one of the three rooms thus vacated,
while the normal department could
occupy ano'her of these rooms, and
then leave a third room for the over
flow from the Garfield and Lincoln
buildings. Thus we would have the
Lincoln, the Lafayette, the Garfield,
all but the attic of the central build
ing, and the two rooms in the high
school building, fully occupied by
grade children. This would probably
make it possible to move the border
line between the Lincoln and high
school districts from Third street
East to either Second) or First stree*.
and likewise make it possible to move
the border line between the Garfield
and high school districts from Sixth
street West to Seventh or Eighth
streets. Many pupils, living near to
SCHOOL EDITION EDITED BY THE JUNIORS
The beginning of the public school
system of Willmar, was a common
school district organized in the vill
age forty-six years ago. The school
waa much like a rural school, having
a small one-room frame building, with
one teacher in charge. However, the
little village was not long satisfied
with the opportunities which this
school offered, and eight years later
it voted to make this an independent
district with the following citizen?,
the members of the first board of edu
cation: J. M. Spicer, president A. N.
Lewis, clerk C. E. Lien, treasurer
L. O. Thorpe, Reiniert Sunde and M.
Jbrgeneon. Ths board appointed Rev.
W. Harvey, Mr. R. D. Bloomfield and
Mrs. A. E. Rice as the first board of
examiners for the district because
at that time the state required that
all teachers in an independent dis
trict should pass certain examinations
according to the grades which they
taught
Beginnings of High School.
Thirty-seven years ago this month
only a year after the establishing
the independent district, this board o*
education, composed of farsighted
business men, took the first step to
wards the organization of a hign
school in conformity with the state le
quir^nents at that time. It adopted
a grafted course of study for the grani
mar/mstcrmediate and primary deparr
menfif1 Including the necessary'sub
jects for admission to the freshman
class of the university. This course
of study was prepared by Mrs. A. X.
Rice and by the principal of the
school, W. M. West, who later became
the head of the history department av
the University of Minnesota. With
a few additions and changes, this
same course of study was used for a
great many years.
In order to determine whether the
school could be made a high school
or not, one of the requisition's was that
those planning to take the high school
course the first year, should pass an
examination in the common branches,
and in physical geography, algebra
and rhetoric. This examination was
given by a member of the faculty of
the State University. The examine
ers were Mattie A. Brown (Mrs. E. W.
Lewis), Laura Richards and Louise
B. Fancher, In September, 1879,
school convened for the first time as
a state high school, in a small four
room building which a year or two
later was sold to the village and used
as a town hall until replaced by the
present building.
In 1881 a brick building was com
pleted, which seemed large enough
and sufficiently well equipped for years
to come. It was not long, however,
the high school building, are forced,
under present conditions, to go to tho
Lincoln or Garfield districts, when
they would far rather attend the cen
tral building. Proper provision1 should
be made in this building for a gym
nasium and an auditorium or stud
room, which could be used for public
as well as school purposes. It should
contain recitation rooms, a biological
laboratory, a department for agricul
ture, a commercial department, and a
library room,- a music room, offices,
cloak rooms, halls, etc A building ot
this kind could probably be best locat
ed on the south side of the high
school building and so joined to it that
the work of the junior and senior high
schools could be correlated!.
Suggests Improvement of Grounds.
With such room as this provided
for the'internal workings of the
school, attention should be then givan
to the proper development of the
school grounds. Where the size of
the grounds will permit, a portion of
the grounds should be laid' out for
purposes of beauty. The yards should
be well graded and then laid out and
planted to trees, flowering shrubs,
and flowers in such a way as to add
to the general beauty of the city.
Another portion of the grounds should
be set aside for the purposes of play,
and should be equipped with some of
the modern up-to-date play ground ap
paratus such as slides, teeter-totters,
swings, turning poles, etc., for both
boys and girls. If the sise of the
school grounds will permit, a third
portion should be set aside for vege
table gardens to be cared for by those
-$.4
Jjftk
ifi- £*.
WILLMAR, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, APBIL 19, 1916 PRICE 10 GENTS NUMBEB9
A BIT OF HISTORY
GLEANED
FROM THE PAST
By Miss JOSEPHINE JENNESS
before the school board was confront
ed by the serious problem of how to
relieve the overcrowded' conditions.
The grammar room teacher, although
she had eighty-five pupils in her room
taught three and four high school
subjects. Even the teacher in the in
termediate' department, in which about
ninety-five pupils were enrolled, was
obliged to teach a high school sub-
*v
ject. To be sure there was no room
for recitation seats, so these pupils
had to remain standing during the
class period. They were, undoubtedly,
very thankful that these were not for*
ty or forty-five minute periods.
For a few years after its establish
ment, the school had no library and
no apparatus for the teaching of lat
ural philosophy and chemistry. Upon
the demand of the state department,
threatening the withdrawal of state
aid, a small library was started ani
some laboratory equipment supplied.
The question1 of how to provide mere
room for these increasing demands
was settled for the people, when in
pupils who wish to have a garden,
but who can not find room at home
for gardening purposes.
I believe that the citizens of Will
mar are very much interested in the
educational welfare and physical de
velopment of the children of our city.
The people here are welt to do and
prosperous, and can well afford to
provide buildings and materials for
their children, which shall equal the
equipment provided by any school
district in the State excepting only a
few of the mining towns upon the
range.
What of the Future?
With the reorganization of the work
so as to provide for the special needs
of the individual child, and also to
provide those minimum essentials
which every child should have as a
foundation for his future life, I can
seem to see great advancements being
made in the progress of the Willmar
schools. While it is true that we now
have a very strong corps of both
grade and high school teachers, and
are endeavoring to strengthen it still
more in the future, it is nevertheless
true that until some of these means
of which I have spoken can be secur
ed, the Willmar schools as a whole
must continue to mark time only. We
have practically reached the limit of
progress under the present conditions.
We are ready for the future steps,
but we stand facing the future, mark
ing time and confidently awaiting and
expecting the order of the citizens of
Willmar to march on for we will fur
nish you the room and the equipment
needed.
JOSEPHINE F. JENNESS
Principal Willmar High School
September, 1885, the building was de
stroyed by fire. The skating rink, lat
er remodeled into the old opera
house, was fitted up for use. The
partitions extended to within three
or four feet of the ceiling and, more
over, were very thin. The greater
part of the time it seemed to those in
charge as if all four departments were
in one room. After such conditions
as these, there was naturally much
rejoicing when the Central building
was opened for use December 4, 188G.
The building itself was valued at $14.
000 and the library, laboratory appar
atus and other necessary equipment
at $110.
The First Graduates.
The success and efficiency of a
school may be measured by the char
acter and achievements of its grad
uates as individuals and as classes.
The first class to be graduated from
the high school was the class of 188?.
Mattie A. Brown was the first grad-
uate. The graduating exercises, just
as significant as those of the present
time were held in the Dale and Roise
haU, the old building which is stiU
standing on the corner of Benson ave
nue and Sixth street. The following
year there was again one graduate,
Ludwig Arctander, who is now a
prominent lawyer in Minneapolis. For
a period of six years, there were no
graduating classes. In 1889, Bern'ce
AJ. Hennings (Mrs. John Irvin), now
a leading club woman of Minnesota,
and Maude W. Wheratt (Mrs. Hough)
were graduated. The next class num
bering seven was that of 1892. From
that time on there has always been
a class graduated, large in propor
tion to the high school enrollment.
Every class from the oldest to the
most recent, has some achievement
of which it is proud, some custom for
which it stands sponsor. To these
classes, the high school pupils of to
day surely owe a debt of gratitude.
No school can boast of a more loyal,
more interested or more enthusiastic
alumni association than the Willmar
High School The credit for the found
ing of this organization probably be
longs to Mrs. John Irwin, although
the class of 1894 claims the honor of
giving the first alumni banquet. In
the first few years of the association's
existence, the guests at the annual
banquet included the school board
members and public school teachers
as well as the alumni but the asso
ciation has grown so that now only
the alumni are invited to the banq.iet.
Another custom not quite so note
worthy as the preceding, initiated by
this class was that of having class
rings or pins. The class pins which
they used were ten cent pieces mount
ed on clasps. The board of education
must have considered this class one
that deserved special recognition for
it presented the members with flow
ers at the commencement exercises, a
practice which only lasted a very
short time.
iNNESOTA
The class of 1899 was the first Jun
ior class to organize and formally en
tertain the Seniors. The Willmar
Tribune in an issue of May, 1898, gives
the following account of this social
event: "The Junior class ot the high
school entertained the senior class in
a most delightful manner at the Mer
chants Hotel last Saturday night. For of her sise might watt be
RORSQfcr
&T1 Pages 1-8
S
amusement, "pinning the tail on the
donkey" was played. The orchestra
composed of the following juniors, fur
nished an interesting program: Miss
es Lillie and Jessie Korthe, Flossie
Porter and Mary Wheeler George
Williams, George Tyler, Archie Lar
son and Ford Pritchard." Evident1?
this class did not introduce "Needles
Eye" and Four in a Boat" into the
social functions of this high school,
and there are no school records which
show to what class this distinction be*
longs.
Another well established social
event of the school had its beginning
about this time. The high school
boys had been engaging in athletirs
for two or three years arousing much
more enthusiasm) tor base ball than
football. On May 24, 1899 Litchfield
and Willmar played an exciting game
of base ban at the old Fair Grounds,
west of the city. An unusually large
number of rooters came up from Litch
field and were royally entertained by
the town's people as well as by ths
high school faculty and students.
The class of 1907 put on the first
class play, but the class of 1901 was
the first to present the school with a
class memorial.
There is no event in the school
year which has endeared itself more
to the high school students than the
simple class day exercises held on the
closing day of school. At no other
time do the members of all four class
es, the teachers and the school boaid
seem to come in such close touch
with each other. The class of 1906
originated this delightful custom.
Progress of School.
One may judge of the growth and
progress of this high school by the
additions made to the course of stud/,
the requirements for graduation, the
amount of room: required for school
purposes and the increase in the
teaching force. About fifteen years
after the founding of the high school,
botany-and German were added Ut
the original course of study. Music
and drawing became an important part
of the school work when Mrs. Blanche
Hand (Mrs. Jewett) was made the
instructor in these subjects. Those
pupils who had the privilege of study
ing music under her direction will
never forget the pleasure and inspir
ation which they received from her
excellent instruction. When the ne
cessity for industrial education was
felt throughout the country, the high
school was ready to do what it could
to meet the need. Manual training
added to the course in 1908 domestic
science and art, and a normal trail
ing department, in 1909 agriculture,
in 1911 have made this school one ct
the progressive schools of the state.
However to nutintaint this rank there
are some necessary subjects which
cannot be offered on account of lack
of room.
The aim of the school authorities
has always been to raise the standard
of scholarship and increase the effi
ciency of each department. In order
to do this the requirements for grad
uation have been changed from time
to time. At first the graduation of a
pupil depended upon the number of
state certificates he received. The
pupil holding the greatest number ot
certificates seemed to have the high
est rank in his class. Later the re
quirement was twelve state certifi
cates and a class average of sixty
five percent in sixteen high school
subjects. Now the requirement is a
class average of seventy-five per cent
in sixteen high school subjects, four
of which are English and two mathe
matics.
The growth and extension of the
high school system is also shown by
the number and size of the buildings
erected. Several years before the
present high school building was con
structed, the seed for more room was
pressing. In 1898, the Methodist
church and the old "Presbyterian
church building were used for grade
rooms, so that the high school could
have more room in the Central build
ing. Even then one very smalt room
served as office, library and recita
tion room. It was impossible to tell
from year to year where the labor
atory would be found. Sometimes it
was on the third floor sometimes In
the basement at other times in a
small room on the second floor. In
fact it waff located wherever the oth
er departments crowded it. The pres
ent high school building erected in
1906 was thought to be large enopgh
for all time. Nevertheless, the high
school has outgrown this building as
well as the industrial building erected
in 1910. In 1898 the high school en
rollment was sixty-four. From that
year the growth has been steady, more
than keeping pace with the growth
of the city. Loosing back at the past
history of the school, Willmar may
justly feel that at all times she has
had a high schoo) of which any city
