VOLUME XXXVII.
DEPARTMENT LACKS
SUFFICIENT FUNDS
STATE FIRE MARSHAL REPORTS
INABILITY TO COMPLETE
WORK PROPERLY
BROWN CO. CITIZENS SUFFER
LOSSES AMOUNTING TO
$25,492,00.
According to the annual report of the
state fire marshal, Robt. W. Hargadine,
there were 2,595 fires in the state during
the past year, endangering property of,
the -value of $15,038,040 and damaging
the same to the extent of $4,722,925.
Insurance carried on this amounted to
$16,335,607.
HemKBpin county of course leads the
counties both in number of fires and
amount of damage, having 713 fires and
a loss of $1,222,250, with St. Paul
second with 525 fires and a property loss
Of $1,170,382.
Brown county had 13 fires charged up
against it, causing a loss of $25,492 to
buildings and contents valued at $86,200.
The-insurance carried amounted to only
$4,510.
One of the queer things to be noted
in the report is the return from Blue
^arth county. Number of fires is given
at 15 value of buildings and ccaftemts,
$113,765 damage to buildings and con
tents, $159,315 total insurance, $150,
045. It is barely possible that there is a
typographical error in the figures of the
report, but if that is not the ease, it
reveals & peculiar condition. How a
piece of property can be damaged to a
greater vextent than its value is a (conun
drum .and how it can be insured at nearly
$40,000 more than it is worth is another.
The »cost fof administration of Mr.
Hargadme's department, including sala
ries and all expenses has been $23„o"96.59
during the year.
Concluding his report the state fire
marshal makes the following recommen
dations:
As a result of the experiences of the
last year it is believed that the State "Fire
Marshal's Department could be made
more efficient if the following suggestions
were considered in respect to the present
law:
The act should be so amended as to
d*T| give the Department more authority to
\W investigate, regulate and enforce afl laws
in relation to moving picture theaters in
the State.
The Department should be given
power to prohibit the use of buildings in
which occupancy is hazardous to Me
and limb.
A State Building Code should he
•enacted which would require the eon
struction of all buildings within ©ur
State upon a safe and sane plane—this
.code should include regulations pro
viding for the proper installation of
(electric wiring.
In the interests ofefficiency the State
Fire Marshal should foe appointed for a
Jonger term, possibly six years. This
would .enable the encumbent to get an
intelligent view of the work needed and
at the same time remove snany difficulties
£UCTOujading his duties.
It has hecome manifest that the De
partment should have a larger appro
priation to (carry qn the work effectively.
Under the puesent system the dep#rt
ment is severely handicapped by lack,of
Vv sufficient funds. A focee of four deputies
to investigate .a territory of 125,000
square miles and safeguard the Jives of
more than two million people is, on its
face, ridiculous. Provision should be
made so as to provide at least one Deputy
Fire Marshal for a territory comprising
say, one congressional district, making
an even dozen men working all the time
to reduce the ever present menace
fire loss in Minnesota.
of
HERZOG AND HIS CREW GIVE
BOES THE HOOK.
War has been declared by the local
police on the Weary Willies who have
been infesting the railroad yards and
moseying around the back alleys of the
residence districts looking for a likely
looking place for a handout. No more
of that, Dusty Rhodes, take notice.
Last Friday complaints were registered
at the police station that four of the
choicest specimens of the genus
American hobo were loitering near the
brick yards. Officer Herzog received
the description of the quartette and
recognized them as the ones he had
ordered out of town the day before.
Pete Graff's road hog was at once re
quisitioned, with the boss up on the front
seat and Fred Christiansen and Carl
Stone pressed into service as handy men.
The hobos had their scouts out, however,
and when the officer and his crew arrived
upon the scene they scattered. Herzog
managed to land two of the birds and
Carl Stone a third. Freddo had the
time of his life trying to make his victim
change direction towards the Redstone
bridge. Mr. Hobo dodged under, over
and through fences and other obstacles
with the agility of an acrobat, but Fred
finally forced him to take the lead in a
stern chase. Even there the hobo gave
the court house man a run for his money.
and had it not been for stopping to lace,
up his shoes he would have gotten away.
But coming to a dead stop and stooping
over while doing a 10 second clip had
its disastrous results as Fred being a
close second and coming under a full
head of steam was unable to set the
brakes and—well, let Fred tell the rest
of the story.
The state fair board has given it out
that the Waseca band has been awarded
a three days' contract to play at the next
state fair, receiving $450 for the job.
EXPENSE OF OILING
CHARGED AT LARGE
WATER WILL BE USED ON ALL
DOWNTOWN STREETS AND
BROADWAY,
NEW ASSESSOR APPOINTED BY
MAYOR QUALIFIES FOR
POSITION.
At an adjourned meeting of the city
council last Friday -evening Alfred
Schlumpberger was ajppointed city as
sessor for the year, Fred Seiter, the
Mayor's original appointee being unable
to qualify as a freeholder. The salary
of the assessor was fixed at $300 for the
year and an assistant, Cha§. Grussendorf
appointed at a salary of $200. Both
have qualified. The work of the assessor
this year will be considerably greater
than ordinarily, because all the real
estate must be reassessed in addition to
the usual personal property assessments.
City Engineer Minium also was re
appointed, but there was considerable
argument ower the salary question of
this official, some of the aldermen being
6f the opinion that the engineer did not
devote enough of his time to his duties,
as he also holds position of county
surveyor which necessitates more or less
work outside of the city. Mr. Minium
wanted a raise *of $40 per month, or a
salary of $150 per month, but this the
council refused to grant at least for the
present and the *old salary of $110 per
month was reestablished. It was the
sense of the council that the eity engineer
take complete supervision of .all of the
atneet work, giving the street com
missaoner .all necessary orders «asLto work
to he done. Should the engineer find
timed© execute these duties the members
of the (council were agaseed that his salary
should ibe raised to thesamount agked for
During the discussion of the question
of oiling .the streets, the matter cff jPre
pating the roadways for oiling wasidis
cufised and it was finally decided tthat
the city should purchase a steam wilier
with which to pack down the streets be
fore they are oiled.
The expense of oifistg will fee borne by
the city at large as under the charter
assessments for this purpose cannot be
levied against abutting property as is
done in the .case of street sprinkling.
Just how many streets and what sections
it aie to
will be decided
at a later meeting of the council after
the committee on streets has made a
thorough investigation and has become
famiSiar with the oiling proposition. It
was decided, however, not to include
State, Washington and Franklin streets
and those connecting these thorough
fares in the sprinkling district, conse
quently these streets will be rolled and
oiled. It is also possible that the ap
proaches to the city both on the south
and north sides will be given applications
of oil as it is believed that the city at
large would be benefitted if the great
clouds of dust which sweep down Minne
sota street from either direction during
the summer months can be prevented
by the use of oil.
The meeting was rather a warm one
and it would seem as if the present
council is likely to be less harmonious
than was the body which recently went
out of existence. President Behnke
aroused the ire of Councillor Filzen and
the latter was quite frank in expressing
his opinion of the presiding officer.
Things were smoothed over, however,
and no serious rupture is anticipated.
CHECK LAW SELDOM ENFORCED.
Federal Statutes Say Issuing of
GbecklFor Less Than One Dollar
Is Illegal.
One of the laws no one seems ever to
have heard of being -enforced is the one
found in the federal statutes raider the
title of ''Offenders against the .currency,
coinage -etc., section 178, criminal code
of the United States."
Under the provisions of that section
any person who issues a*heck for A less
amount than $1*00 lays himself liable to
a fine of '5[g00 and imprisonment up to
six months in a federal prison. The
practice of Sasuing dhecks foj such sMall
amounts is A very eommon «one and is
done a dozen times a day in the business
world.
The section of the federal law reads as
follows:
"No person s&all make, issue, circu
late or pay out jany note, check, memo
randum, token, or other obligation for a
less sum than $1 intended to .circulate as
money, or to be received, or used in lieu
of lawful money of the United States
And every person so offending shall fee
fined not more than $500, or imprisoned
not more than six months, or both."
COMMERCIAL CLUB BANQUET
NEXT WEDNESDAY
All arrangements have been completed
for the annual banquet of the Commer
cial Club, to be held at the Turner Hall
gymnasium. The supper will be served
by the Turner Ladies' Society, which in
itself is sufficient guarantee that the solid
part of the program is well taken care of.
The committee has arranged for sever
al outside speakers, among them several
representatives of the commerce clubs
of neighboring towns. Local speakers
also will be on the program, but as several
of the speakers have not yet given a de
finite answer, the complete list will not
be given out until later in the week.
The dental offices in New Ulm will be
closed on Saturday afternoon during
the summer months. The dentists have
all agreed upon this to be effective
May 1st. It would be a fine thing if all
the business houses would make a like
agreement and everybody take a little
time off from the rush during the hot
days. Who next?
A ii *"if"
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 191
W
DUCK[HUNTERS IN TROUBLE.
Are Finer! For Violation of State Law
and May he Prosecuted Under
Federal Laws.
Last Thursday Game Warden P. J.
JKarpen hated three young hunters of Le
Sueur into justice court on the charge of
having violated the state game laws by
shooting ducks out of season. When ar
itested the men had four ducks in their
possession, said to have been shot on the
Minnesota river near Ottawa. Each
paM,a fine and costs, totaling $11.50.
Although they have succeeded in
settling the case against them in the local
courts, they are now liable to be punished
by the United States authorities, under
the national migratory game laws, which
make it a serious offense to shoot wild
game out of season.
It has been reported that several per
eons in this vicinity have been shooting
wild game recently and it may be that
they will profit by the experience of the
three young men who were convicted last
Thursday.
The national migratory game laws not
only have a stiff fine and jail sentence for
the offender who is found guilty of vio
lating them, but the song birds are like
wise protected. Persons, especially boys
and young men, who make it a practice
to shoot song birds for the sport of it,
may be facing a serious charge some day.
SUPREME COURT TO PASS ON
ELECTION LAW.
The supreme court has set April
20 as the date for hearing arguments on
the constitutionality of the law passed
by the 1915 Legislature seeking to extend
the term of clerks of the district court
of the state.
The case comes before the court on
the petition of J. J. Abel, a resident of
Wright county for a writ of mandamus
to compel J. A. Berg, the county auditor
of Wright county to accept his filing for
the office of clerk of the district court.
The county auditor refused on the ground
that there will be no vacancy in the office
until 1919 and no election until two years
from this fall.
The constitution provides that the
term of the clerk of court shall be four
S~
years, but the legislature passed a law summer and to keep them out you will
to the effect that there should be no clerk I destroy their breeding places.
of court elections in the state this year,
which would mean that the present clerks
are to hold over or be re-appointed for
two years more. Abel claims this law is
unconstitutional, and demands that he
be allowed to file for the office. The legis
lature fixes the terms of all county offi
cers except the clerk of court and judge
of probate whose terms are fixed by the
constitution.
The new law lengthens the terms of
county officers, except the judge of
probate, from two years to four years.
The decision will effect thirty-four
clerks of courts in the state. Clerk Man
derfeld was elected two years ago for a
Jfour-year term, consequently does not
have to worry about the decision.
Among the long list of convicts seek
ing pardons or parole before the state
board of pardons last week was Emily
Tanke, formerly of Lafayette, serving a
life term in the state penetentiary for
second tctegree murder, having been con
victed in July, 1902, of slaying her first
husband, John Welmer. The board did
not grant her petition for parole.
SALOON MENCHARGE
CRIMINAL SLANDER
ALFRED BALTRUSCH ARRESTED
UNDER RECENTLY PASSED
LIBEL LAW.
HEARING SET FOR MONDAY IS
POSTPONED ON REQUEST OF
DEFENDANT.
The hearing in the case of the State of
Minnesota against Constable AIL Bal
trusch, arrested for criminal slander upon
the complaint of Arthur Schleif Thursday
of last week, was postponed until next
Monday by Justice Henningsen when the
case was called Monday forenoon.
Attorney Alfred W. Mueller appeared
for the defendant and Alb. Pfaender for
the state. The former read an affidavit
made by the defendant in which it was
set forth that a material witness for the
defense is out of the state at the present
time, but is expected to be home for
Easter, when an attempt will be made to
serve a subpoena. According to Mr.
Mueller, this witness will be able to
substantiate the charge that Mr. Schleif
kept his saloon open after hours.
The case is creating considerable in
terest, not only among the saloonists but
throughout the city and should the case
be tried by a jury which seems very
probable, it will be hard to find six men
who have not already made up their
minds as to the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
The action is the aftermath of the
council meeting when the liquor licenses
were granted. Constable Baltrusch at
that time made rather serious charges
against Mr. Schleif on account of the
manner in which he is said to have con
ducted his saloon on the corner of Broad
way and Second North streets, among
them the statement that the place was
open after hours whenever a dance was
held at the Union hall.
It is not expected that the defendant
in the action will attempt to deny that he
made the charges and statements, but
will attempt to prove that the charges
were true and. consequently he was
justified in making them as an officer of
the law.
The law under which the action was
brought is a new one on the statute
books, passed by the 1915 legislature.
It reads as follows: "Every person who
in the presence and hearing of another,
other than the person slandered, whether
he be present or not, shall speak of or
concerning any person, any false or de
famatory words or langage which shall
injure or impair the reputation of such
person for virtue or chastity or which
shall expose him to hatred, contempt or
ridicule, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Every slander herein mentioned shall be
deemed malicious if no justification there
for be shown and shall be justified when
the language charged as slanderous, false
or defamatory was true and was spoken
with good motives and for justifiable
ends."
A misdemeanor is punishable by im
prisonment in the county jail of not more
than three months or by a fine of not to
exceed $100.
There are morals as well as fables in
slang. Here is one: "There are no
fies on him he's a live one." If you are
a live one you will have no fies on you,
in your house, barn or creamery this
•*»-f ar»~. stated
•tftfMBER 1(5
ENGINEER REPORTS
ONHEATING PLANT
WASTE STEAM AT CITY PLANT
CAN BE PROFITABLY UTILIZED
AS HEAT.
EXPERT TO COME TO NEW ULM~
FOR INVESTIGATION OF WA-
TER PROBLEM.
Experts employed by the city counciT
on the heating plant proposition have
submitted two reports—one a pre
liminary detailed report and the other*
a summary of the whole matter.
The preliminary covers the manner
in which the system may be installed im
this city. Because of the fact that
Minnesota street is paved, the laying of
pipes in the middle of the street is made
prohibitive on account of the cost and
the engineers suggest that easements be
secured from the property owners on
both sides of the street for the purpose
of placing the pipes in the basements
near the front of the buildings, connect
ing the two lines of pipe at both ends and
thus obtaining not only a better circula
tion of the heat, but also giving oppor
tunity to shut off any certain building^
should a fire occur or anything corner
up which would demand such action.
It is estimated that the cost of running
the pipes tnrough the basements would
be even cheaper and in the end more
economical than if laid in the street or
alley, because the covering would not
have to be as heavy and repairs can be
more easily and readily made.
The estimated cost of the system is
I approximately $20,000 and upon that
figure all of the conclusions in the report
are based.
With regard to the-financing of the*
proposition, the first report says, speak
ing of a town where wimilar conditions
as those in New Ulm existed, "A stock^
company was organized and in this case?
an electric light plant was built ancEI
turned over to the city for operation, the
city agreeing, out of the income, to pay
a certain amount per year (amount being
stated) until the whole had been paid.
This plan was found to work out success
fully in this one instance. We do not
know whether your city charter would
allow of such an arrangement. In the
case above mentioned the whole pro
cedure was pronounced legal by the at
torneys for the city and the company."
Concluding, the report says: "In the
case of New Ulm we believe from our
study of the conditions that a properly
designed steam distribution system
would be a successful venture, both from
a mechanical and financial standpoint,
provided that the system was not ex
tended beyond a point where too great a
percentage of live steam would be re
quired, and a rate be established that
would provide adequate return for the
service furnished."
The report is signed by Chas. Foster
who visited the city a few weeks ago and
gathered the data upon which the report
is based. Mr. Foster is expected to
arrive in the city today and go into the
water problem in a thorough manner,
gathering data for the purpose of supn
mitting a report showing how the city,
can guard its water supply for the future..
Not only the well system, but also the
creeks and the filtering system will no
doubt be thoroughly gone into in the.
report.
Members of the city council seem very
much impressed with the manner in
which the Pillsbury Company has
handled the problem so far, as it goes_
into detail on every proposition upon
which a conclusion is based. The report
in its entirety is regarded as very con
servative.
The second report to the committee
giving a summary of the heating plant
situation follows:
To the Honorable Mayor and City
Council,
Gentlemen:—
In our report submitted to you on
April 10th, 1916, we endeavored to pre
sent to you certain facts to show what
might be expected with a distributing
system -for steam heating from your
electric light and power plant using what
exhaust steam the lighting and power
load would produce and supplying the
balance of steam required with live steam
during the three months of the year
which would require the greatest amount
of steam for heating purposes. We now
desire to submit to you a more complete
report showing what might be expected
in the way of steam used during the
entire heating season.
We have proportioned the percentage
Continued on page 2
2
-J
4.1
,M
ifc-*
