BARM DAILY
VOL. XX NO. 30.
BAIME, VKKMO.VT, WEDNESDAY, Al'ftlL 10, 1010.
l'ltlCE, OXE CENT.
TOT TCI
U. viUL ILL.
11 JllYiLJOk
-I
r
AN ULTIMATUM SENT -TO
GERMANY BY WILSON
Unless Attacks on Merchantmen Car
rying Americans Are Stopped Diplo
matic Relations Between the United
States and Germany Will Be Broken
Off, But No Time Limit Was Set
DEMAND MADE, HOWEVER,
FOR IMMEDIATE REPLY
Ambassador Von Bernstorff Made For
mal Demand on Secretary of State
Lansing To-day For Return of Papers
Seized From Wolf Von Igel in New
York City
a federal volunteer army rescrvo force
calculated to aggregate SJIil.OOO men, ami
federalized the National (inard force of
the states at an estimated strength of
280,11(10 men.
hi addition to this combined regular
and reserve force of 7!0,OOU men, an
amendment was jmssed to create a
school anil college youths' reserve corps
in time of war or threatened war which
would recruit a force of trained young
men, schooled by ollicers of the regular
army, the estimated strength ot wiucu
is estimated anywhere from 200,000 to
400,000.
Other important provisions of the Sen
ate bill not in the House measure in-
Indo the following:
Appropriation of $15,000 000 for con
struction of government plants for pro
duel ion of nitrates to be used in man
ufacture of ammunition.
Provision for vocational education of
enlisted men of the regular armv. com
pelling instruction either in agriculture
or the mechanical arts.
Creation of a national guard section
in the general stair of the army, and re
quiring all ollicers and enlisted men of
the National Guard to subscribe to nn
oath to support the I'nited States as
well as the respective states.
Provision for federal pay for all Na
tional Guard officers above the rank of
captain.
NO LICENSE AWARDS
HAVE BEEN MADE
Commission Will Hold Another Meeting
To-night and Announcement May Be
Made To-morrow Few Ob
jections at Hearing.
Speculation over tho iht ribution or
liipior licenses in Barre was rile to day,
following tho hearing held at city hall
yesterday. It was expected by
Washington, D. C, April 19. President Wilson told Congress,
assembled in joint session, shortly after 1 o'clock this afternoon,
that he has given Germany irrevocable notification that the United
States will break off diplomatic relations if her illegal submarine
campaign is continued. The note, which is America's last word and
which is practically an ultimatum, demanding an immediate reply,
was in the Berlin foreign office as the president spoke.
President Wilson asked no action whatever of Congress. He
.simply informed it of the accumulation of facts proving that Ger
many's assurances to the United States were being violated, that
the submarine campaign, despite the earnest protests of the United
States, is being conducted with renewed vigor in contravention of
all laws of nations and humanity, and that he means to sever diplo
matic relations unless it is brought within the law.
The president's note and address to Congress are final. They
mark the end of diplomatic exchanges. The continuance of the
long-standing friendly relations, the president made clear, depends
alone upon Germany's conduct.
Just prior to going before Congress, President Wilson revealed
his plans to Senators Stone and Lodge and Representatives Flood
and Cooper, the ranking Democratic and Republican members of
the congressional, foreign affairs committees, at a conference at
the White House.
As the committeemen left the White House, they made no effort
to conceal that in what President Wilson told them the president
made it plain that if Germany still cares to conduct her submarine
warfare in accordance with the rules of international law, the
American government will be glad to continue friendly relations
President Wilson consulted Congress at this time, because,
while he has the authority to break off diplomatic relations, Con
gress alone can declare war, and there is only one instance in mod
era history where a break in diplomatic relations between two first-
class powers has not been followed by war. It is the present situ
ation between Italy and Germany.
FLEET AND ARMY
CONTRIBUTED TO
TREBIZOND'S FALL
SECRETARY LANSING WILL CONFER
WITH VON BERNSTORFF
Secretary of State Lansing to-day informed Count Von Bern
storff that he was ready to discuss the submarine situation, and a
conference will probably be arranged for to-morrow.
VON BERNSTORFF DEMANDS
RETURN OF VON IGEL PAPERS
Washington, D. C, April 19. Count Von Bernstorff made an
engagement to meet Secretary of State Lansing at 11:30 to-day,
and at that hour he made further formal demand for the return of
papers which the department of justice agents seized from Wolf
Von Igel, the private secretary to Captain Von Tapen, in New York
City yesterday.
Russian Official Statement Gives Joint
Credit for the Capture of Important
Turkish City On Black Sta Coast
Army Now 575 Miles from
Constantinople.
Petrograd, via London, April 10.
me tan 01 j rcbinna to the Kus-ian
arms is continued in an ollicial eoinmuni
'cation issued late yesterday. The state
nient says :
''Trebizond has been taken. The unit
ed energetic efforts of our Caucasian
army and Uhtek sea licet have be
crowned by the conquest, of tiiis forti
lied town, the most important position
n tlie Anatolian coast.
uiir gaiiant troops alter ttie san
guinary battle of the I tth on the Kara
Here river pressed the Turks without res
pitc ami surmounted incredible obsta
cles everywhere breaking the fierce re
sistance ot the enemv. 1 lie well com
bined action of the licet permitted th
execution of most hneardoiis landing op
erations and lent the support of its artil
lery to the troops operating in the coast
al region.
'"Credit for this fresh victory also
given the Caucasian army by the troops
operating in other directions in Asia
Minor. Jiv their desperate light fng and
heroic exploits thev did everything in
their power to facilitate the task of the
detachments on the coast."
Trebizond is a eitv of Asia Minor on
the Black sea oTo miles east of Coustan
tinople, and 100 miles north of Kizorutn
me town stormed fv tlie Russians on
February 1". Trebi.o'nd has a popula
tion of about 40,00(1 including 1H.I.M0
Christians.
GERMAN THRUST
AGAIN SHIFTED
EAST OF MEUSE
Spirited Bombardment South of Haudre-
mont Wood is Reported By the French
War Office Other Parts ot VeTdun
Front Had No Important Events.
Paris. April 10. There was a spirited
wunhardment of positions south of
Ilaudremont wood on the Verdun front.
ea-t ot the .Meuse, last night, the war
olliee report this afternoon says. No
other important event occurred on any
part of tho front.
was expected by some
that the commission would be ready to
announce tho list of successful appli
cants this morning, inasmuch as tin
commissioners held a meeting iuimedi
ntcly after the hearing, But one of the
commissioners stated this forenoon that
u second session of the lxmrd is to bti
held in the council chamber this even
ing at 7:.'i0 o'clock.
It is surmise. t that the commission
will have something to s,av to-morrow,
although there is nothing definite to in
dicate that such is to Ik- the ease. Blanks
on winch each successful applicant is
notified have been received from the sec
retary of state.
Only eight of the 22 places selected by
license candidates for their applications
were protested ut the hearing held before
the license commission in the council
chamber ut city hall yesterday after
noon. Three applicants, without regard
to the class ot licenses for which they
were applying, were roundly scored for
their alleged incompetency. Two peti
tions were presented and one protest was
received by letter. And then the hearing
was over. Spectators crowded the coun
cil chamber, the corridor taking care of
an overllow. Apparently most everyone
was looking forward to a lengthy ses
sion, but the commissioners were ready
for adjournment within 40 minutes after
Chairman W. II. Ward called the board
to order.
S. llollister Jackson, Dr. F. X. 7.. At
chambault and Dr. V, M. Lynde voiced
the protests of a number of petitioners
against grunting a first-class license at 8.
Merchant street. It was argued that tho
street is a connecting artery for the
French estate streets and Goddard semi
nary, that the street is none too sightly
at present mid that there are many chil
dren livmg in the neighborhood. W . I'.
Smith protested against granting li
censes at .'iO.'l and 30," Xorth Main street,
in the Scampini and. Brow n blocks, on
the ground that saloons affect the busi
ness of Smith & Cuming. As for the
Brown block, he said, only a wooden
partition separates the Smith & (.'timings
basement from the cellar above which
applicant's would locate a saloon. Mr.
Smith concluded by saying that the odor
of Ihpior made many people of his ac
quaintance ill. He did not know whether
the fumes would bother his own em
ployes, but the situation had its possi
bilities. Objections to licenses at Nos. .'!.'?, 31
and 14 t-ranite street were raiseit ny it.
C. SluirtlefT. an attorney for the Mont-
pelier & Wells Kiver railroad, on the
ground that liquor st'trea or burs in close
proximity to railroad tracks are not at
all desirable. Questioned by Commis
sioner Kelly, protestant said he didn't
know tlie di-tnnce from the Montpclier
St Wells Jtiver tracks to .'13 or 34 Granite
street.
Charles Cav objected to establishing a
license at 107 South Main street because
the proposed location is only nine feet
from his property. South .Main street
petitioners protested because the pro
posed location is near n main entrance to
the eitv, and on the ground that a license
in Cat section will mean additional po
lice protection, and a corresponding tax
increase. Mrs. Annette Wheelork an!
Miss Carrie Wheclock objected to the
proposed location at l.Vi North Main
street because of its proximity to their
residence.
Only one protestant permitted person- j
alities to enter into his objections, all!
others, apparently, taking care to assure
the commissioners that they were object
ing to the locations alone. O. Cranai op
posed the granting of licenses to J f).
Ossola, T. Rossi and A. Keamnini because,
the protestant claimed, '"thev never
worked.' find expressed himself
TROOPS BEING
CONCENTRATED
Scattered American Detach
ments Being Gathered
in Three Places
RENEWED ACTIVITY
UY BOARD OF TRADE
MAY MEAN PLAN
TO LEAVE MEXICO
Or It May Mean Preparation
for More Extensive
Campaign
EI Paso, Tex.. April 10. Confirmation of
reports that the American expeditionary
forces are being concentrated Ht three
points in Mexico, preparatory either for
withdrawal or for the organization of a
new and more extensive campaign was
received to-day from Mexican sources
Belief that the American troops wen:
annul to leave the country was wioe-
spicati among tne ..Mexicans in ,iuaic.
and it completely changed the attitudu
of the people who, alter the Purral in
cident, gave marked indications of hos
tility toward Americans.
DEMAND VON IGEL'S RELEASE.
Germany Embassy Also Wanted Return
of His Papers.
Washington. 1). ('.. April 10. -The Ger
man embassy yesterday demanded of the
state depart merit the immediate return
of papers and documents seized by agents
of the department of justice in Mew
York from the olliee formerly occupied
by Captain Franz Von Papen, the re
called military attache of the embassy.
At the same time the enilwsy requested
the release of Wolfe Von lyr. Von Pa
pen's former secretary, arrested by the
authorities in New Yoik on uu indict
ment charging con-piracy to blow up the
Wellin-1 canal. Counsellor polk of tlie
state department, to whom the repie
sentations were made, at once advi-ed
the department of justice to return the
papers and to tree on Igei unless the
ofTcn-e alleged against him was commit
ted before he Itccame a member of the
embassy staff.
Prince Von Halzfchlt, counsellor of the
emlwssy. who) made the representations,
demanded that tlie pipers and docu
ment be sealed and restored without lc
ing photographed or copied. The action
wn based upon the ground that the of
(iee in which the ,iurs occurred in
realitv is a brain h of the pnilv.
It was said t the fmliK'V that the
of Vorf Tgel had been conditionally or
dered. They indicated they had been
informed that the instructions for re
lease of the prisoner would be uncondi
tional. A lengthy report on the affair
was understood to have lieen
last night to Berlin.
ANGLO-FRENCH REPLY
TO UNITED STATES
HAS BEEN CABLED
Great Britain and France Make Response
to American Note Protesting Against
Interference with Commerce by
Entente Allies.
MORE TROOPS SENT IN.
2,300 Men Are to Reinforce Pershing's
Base.
San Antonio. Tex., April 10. General
Funston is sending to General Pershing
SOU additional troops, ami it is learned
there is reason to believe more will be
dispatched if the campaign against Fran
cisco Villa is continued.
The troops which have been ordered
to Pershing's base at Columbus are now
on duty along the border. What troops
will relieve them and where they will
come from was not. announced.
In addition to the '2.300 troops General
Pershing now has in his base guard at
(oliimbns not) men, but the necessity ot
maintaining at least that tunny there
is recognized.
Staff ollicers here were convinced son
days ago that unless Villa was taken
before lie got bevond Satevo. the chances
of getting him were remote. That point
has been reached and Villa remains at
large, or dead and to that situation is
added an undisguised Hostility ot vari
ous Carnina organizations! that army
men here declare makes doubly neces
sary the strengthening of General Persh
ing's force.
other
wise in vigorous language.
M.
MILLION-MEN ARMY
WAS SANCTIONED
BY THE SENATE
London. April 10.--The reply of Great
Britain nod France to t lie American
forwarded n,,0 eonceining interference w ith mari
time commerce by tlie entente allies ha
leen cabled to Washington.
HIT BY A BALLOON.
Woman Sues Caledonia County Fair As
sociation for $6,000.
St. Johnshtiry, April 10. Mrs. Sefa
.1. powers of Medford. M.i., has sued
the Caledonia County Fair G round com
Ipany for .0.""t for injuries, alleged to
j have been received while attending the
annual fair in St. Johnsbury in Septem-
lr. 1014.
Mrs. Powers was watching a par.ichut."
drop made by Harold fate of Bo-ton.
when the balloon fell, striking and in
juring her. it is claimed. I Minuet t i
Shield of St. John-burr are Mrs. Pow
ers attorneys and the company is rep
resented by Simonds, Seniles A (.rave
of St. John-bury. 'I be i-e fa tried
here in .lime.
JENKINS KENT.
Maine Clergyman Came to Barre To-day
for His Bride.
Pearl M. Kent of this eitv and P.ev.
diaries S. Jenkins of Haverhill. Mass.,
ere united in marriage at the home of
the bride's mother. Mrs. T. 1!. Holder of
13 Lord's alley, at In o'clock this morn
ing. J lie ceremony was performed by
B. G. Lehigh of the Bapt ist .church,
assisted by Rev. Mr. Fogg of Haverhill.
The couple were attended by Mis Ethel
Holder, a sister of tlie bride, and
eorge Gallatly ot SaMiury, N. IL. a
lend of the groom. The wedding march
is played by Miss Fthid Inglis. At the
lose of the ceremony a weddinur dinner
Was served and the couple left on the
11: -"." train for Haverhill, where they
will spend a short honeymoon before go
ing to Milo. Me., where the groom is the
pasfor of the Baptist church.
Mr. ami Mrs. Jenkins became acquaint
ed while attending the Gordon training
school for missionaries, after which the
bride la-came a graduate from the Havcr
hill hospital training school for jiurses.
The groom is a graduate of ("olbv academy.
KNEW VILLA WAS WOUNDED.
An American Thinks It Likely the Ban
dit is Now Dead.
TK1 Paso. Tex., April 10.- Peports of
Villa's death were indirectly confirmed
here yesterday bv nn American mining
man who controls large interests in the
Guerrero district. This man is in close
touch with the American military au
thorities and has forwarded his informa
tion to Washington.
"1 know beyond any quest-ion that
Villa was wounded at Guerrero," he said.
"I hac received my account of tlie af
fair from one in whom I have the full
est confidence. He tells me that iha
was shot through the right knee. tlie
bullet killing his horse, which fell, pin
ning the bandit under it and injuring
his left leg. This was on March 20. j
Alter that I received daily reports about
Villas movements up to April 1. when
he was at Satevo. Since then I have
heard nothing about him. Knowing his
condition and the certainty of his be
ing wounded, I consider it highly prob
able that he is dead, as he assuredly
could not have got any proper medical
treatment."
Significance is also seen in the attitude
of the Mexican officials here and in
Juarez, who have abated their confidence
in the truth of the report of Villa's
death.
Pledged Co-operation in a Plan to Give
Greater Publicity to Barre Balance of
$1,162.01 in Treasury Meeting
Adjourned to April 26.
Plans for tho resumption of activity
ny tlie Harto Hoard of J rade were ills
russed at the annual meeting of the or
ganiz.ation in the granite manufacturer.;
rooms last evening, and after fuirly full
discussion and one action of considerable
importance, the meeting adjourned t
Wednesday evening, April 2(1, when it is
expected that the ollicers to serve for the
coming year w ill be designated. The, ac
tion referred to was to pledge the co
operation of the Board of Trade in u
movement with the Granite Manufactur
ers' association, the Merchants' asocia
tion and the Quarry Owners' ssociatiou
in a publicity campaign for Barre, asiiie
from the plan already set under way bv
the Barre Manufacturers' and Quarries'
association.
There was not a very large attendance
at the meeting last evening, but those
present expressed tlu.-niHclvefl as convinced
of the importance which the Board of
Trade ought to have in the advancement
of Barre and of their earnest desire to
see the organization put into good work
ing order. It seemed to bo the genera!
opinion that the organization ought to
have a paid secretary, either an ollicial
who should devote all his time to the
work or who should devote part of his
time and be paid for it. The volume of
work w hich should be done by the secre
tary of the Board of Trade made it im
possible, several speakers thought, for
the ordinary business man to accept the
position without recompense. So it is
possible that when the organization gets
into shape it will have a secretary who
shall be paid for his services, in part at
least, just as the .Montpclier l'.oard of
Trade does.
The treasurer's report, read by George,
N". Tilden, showed that, the financial con
dition of the organization is good, there
being a balance of .1. 1(12.01 in the bank
on April IS. The report also showed tho
part played by tlie Board ot I rude
toward the building of Hotel Barre, u
sum just a little short of .7.W0 having
been turned into that project.
W hen someone asked for the figures of
membership of the Board of Trade at
the present time, it was impossible to
ive accurate response, inasmuch as the
organization had lieen in a more or less
moribund condition, and little effort
toward retaining the membership had
been made for a year. At one time there
were approximately -ion members, but it
was considered last night that the pres
ent membership might be held to be
considerably less than that. However,
the opinion was expressed that even
an active working body of ;"0 to 7j
members was capable of doing great
good for Barre, and in time the member
ship might be brought back to the for
mer high water mark. It was proposed
to canvass the former membership to ses
how many would be willing to lend their
co-operation in the reorganization.
The publicity campaign to which the
Board of Trade committed itself is de
signed to use road signs directing tour
ists to Barre and to use cloth placards
to be placed on shipments of finished
granite work going out of Barre. Sec
retary II. P. lliiiinan of the Granite Man
ufacturers' association, who also Vas
aiding as temporary clerk of the meeting
last night, explained the plan and said!
that the Merchants' association already
id pledged its co-operation and, that it
TO ASK VOTERS
FOR SANCTION
Before the City Goes -ad
with $41,000 Road P'-'j'ct
on bouth Main S t.et
V
ALD.
REYNOr
OPP'D PLAN
Proposal Is to Issue Bonds
for City's Share of
Expense
An
posa I
GENERAL SCOTT SENT
TO MEXICO BORDER
i
was expected the Quarry owners asso
ciation would do likewise within a short
time. The cost of the campaign is not
expected to be huge, the ont'ide figures
being set at. ifoOO or .HKi. If the four
organizations co operate, the quarterly
share in the expense would be small in
deed. It was explained that if Bane
could get its share of the tourist busi
ness, the results would be advantageous
to the entire community and that, in re
spect to the other mode of advertising,
tlie car shipments would go all over the
country and would, therefore, bring
Barre's product to very wide notice, j
Alter a discussion, the motion was made
and carried that the Board of Trade
pledge its co-operation.
After other matters hud been infor
mally discussed, M. S. Hounds, who had
been presiding, declared the meeting ad
journed, alter which light retreslnucnt s
were sencd.
WILLIAM H. JONES.
PROGRESS AT R0CKP0RT.
Of That Number 250,000 Is to Be the
Teacc Strength of the Regular Army
It is a Substitute for the Hay
Bill Passed By House.
Washington. I. ( . .,;i in. - An army
reorgaiiiation ) ji,.,, wn ,r,!(.e
regular army and reserve military forces
in the t inted States aggregating a mil
lion men was passed by the Senate last
night without a r-ord .t. It is a sub
stitute for tile il.iv passed J.,- t!,c
House and t''C dilTereii.-c. will . worked
out in conference.
'n the r f t a joint session c.f th
IT .
nouses oi i ingress io teMr a n.e
from the president on crave micm-1 700 Pounds Destroyed wit h Surar House ; . ;.,,,! ,
in
United States Chief of Staff Will Inves
tigate Conditions on Orders from
Secretary of War Baker.
Washington. 1). . April 10. Major
General Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff of
the army, will go to Texas to-night by
order of Secretary of War Baker to get
accurate information as tn the situation
on the border and in Mexico.
ANOTHER BARRE CASE ON TRIAL.
and
MAPLE SUGAR BURNED.
i
l-f the paper were lillkrown
c. mtents
t here.
State depi i ( nient Tct'rd show thst
f.-rrra! notification of the ai y nutucnt
of Von lge WA rrrivel dllilg Isst
Ssr.pt em ber. aftr Vn I'rn ! a 1 l"cn
declared ron gr.lt . on l 1 a 1 l-en
in th e ol i n I'a' f n f.-r several
m' nt!. prior t that. j fini. a r
Teu'oni.' official aparr. to lw nr-1 !' l--.il
j riK-J on l-cirj iaf-.-rau-l that lit n!-s-e 'ti;rt l a't
Itionul i.ue. iSp V
nale hastened j
p'etion -f the b.'l ami. I v eie. of x-i
ut- n:ent. ripeste.:' y r-!-'t tug ail awn I-
mints j-n nn.; i rKn-e tle ir
at Derby.
Vewpoit. April 1!. Fire.
-trr nrt'jrn-r;: of t'e
In the h-s'fj h.-or
ale i ! r
r-'y :tn a st-
j.-r.-d ;t'l
1- '1 t !
a f.
"I"
anny.
- of !,! ir y. -
r- .".' ,r -: !,.! -.
sr. i ; 1 1 of j. .! t
which is UT.kn-xun. jt'
tie surar l.- 'i- and fi
i,.s,rt in mrby al
t' e otn- n f
rday p-ye 1
t m-'i t -t A. I..
It right fries
Following Conference Over Dispute
Granite Quarry Situation.
lincKpori. .'las., .prii ri. .t a -ou-fereii-e
yesterday aftrnoon between r-P-l
resent it ives of tie Ivs kport (.ran lie ( o.. I
and representatives ot tin- ipiarry work
ers' union, nt which Bernard .1. fsnii !,-
led the state board of eon, ilia t i, n and
(arbitration "as present, an etloit was
jnmde t compromise the d lferen-cs be
jtwfon ti e company an I its employe-,
j l'rore made, although a ,et!lc
ment as not re.'n he 1.
i 'I he o-urrynien ask-vl tor a raie '
ifroiii :!.- t is cents per hour Nn. a .-nl
-per hour iu-rea-e t.-r the n. to
j vears. The loiiii anv t tT, ted '7 i" nt
per le-iir t-r t ie t.r-t yt.ir and tl,. a !! -
hour for the two u -
icssne years. I 1 ere wjii t-e a I-g :iiS
p;frt ' of the -:arrv m n at : krrt
to ,!u t- l.-Vn t ti e re;-nt .ft
ri j rs, !itji,,s atel t- take acton. "I ,
Clarence E. Foley Is Suing Mary
Charles Zanlconi for $2,234.73.
In Washington county court this fore
noon the case of .1. K. I'irie vs. Granite
Savings bank of Barre. the trial of
which was commenced Mou-lay after
noon, was given to the jury, the closing
argument being made by Attorney .Tohn
. i .onion nt I" o'clock. Only a few
w itnesses totiticd in tiie case, which was
hi ought by the plaintiff to recover ft. ism,
the sin-Mint of a note given by Iiwe &
Mercer, formerly a Montpclier granite
j iii.inuiai turing concern, and endorsed ''
I Mr. I'irie.
I mmedial
irk case
civ att-T the disposal of the
iurv was drawn to bear evi-
1 1
in
from tiiis Viilnjre, nn-m; a I -ss rt sl.-."-.
1 '..-re i a partisl ir-nraiK e. A tit
T'" r":'i of ii.aple a-igar dc-trn , ,4
tV r wil'i t' " I, i ? !, of t ,r !! , !
otlw-r union roriH-t ts ,th !!
lie bire I-en f';-,ft- t'ir !
j ..TV:r.ary rc-cntet, and ,f thf
oi ioi a--t- - a i.'..j, fc
- li
tic
r
I of
t
uu 1
. a i.
d- I a r- iu r t r
;.' r ut n-
g. r,-t
U t
Mar h
fft em t"
.-?k d! b.
hue l--n
'iir-
t . v
...el.
i d, H--C in the ca-e of t lareins- K. Foley, a
' Barre eoi, tractor. s. Mary and 'baric
' Zatileoni. a'-o of Barre. .1. Ward arier
j appears for the plaint ill and S. llollister
'.lack -on tor the l- iendtnts. Foley i u
! in:; t r.s ver g.'U.T-'i l"r wotk on the
Balk t'iistri" and garage.
Tie rapidity with which ivd eases re
m (t.iss. ,,f woull in !i :te that t' e
trial of -tte ca-es wsil be co,.,,, ueej
the latter l-aft of if t wink. lu-t l ow
i -i '. orgcr t'e- t-T'o of eouit will li-t!
,s. of eour-e. uii-sitMiii and -h i en 1 l.re-
! on t 'e ie 'sj-'li o! t1' state' attor-o-v ;
r'. l.itii to the tru'l e' IS rnan-'a'j-'.t- r
a-e against "-" H. t ". .V'h -rgS
t' e (ou't a s., ,n g tt.'g 1arte.. i
,-ar n; I- l trial t..e t'r-t we. k.
I ; -e t -c 'e' t .It- e t ! t t "' k- T t
.;t..j t'n t'-- l.;-oe si! 9tt.'T-e. !vl.'
....j.!.,! l.i 1 jii-tH.r i a - I. )r
Death of Man Who Had Been Resident
of Barre 2Q. Years.
William 11. .lones passed away nt his
home, Hi Central street, last evening at
7 o'clock. Mr. .hues had been in tail
ing health for more than a year. He is
survived by his wife, who was Miss
Libby Virginia Fullon and to whom he
was married in Keeseville, X. V., Feb.
17. ISfil: by his daughter, Mrs. Boy
Crossctt. and l-v two sons, William A.
lones and Miltord 11. .lone of Barre.
His mother. Mrs. William Jones, re-j
sides in Fair Haven, where hi sister,
Mrs. Louise Hughes, lives. A brother,'
Daniel .bines, is a resident of Holland. .
Mr. Jones was Isun in Fair Haven, j
Feb. 17. 1 !.!. He was employed as a
stonecutter in yuinry, Mass., after
ward in Albany, X. Y and came So
Bane twenty jcars ago. The deceased
was a member of Granite City eainp.
M. W. of A., and belonged to tlie gran
itecutteis' association. In mnsitai cir
cles he was well known a a member
ot the Montpclier Military hand, seiei-
ing his connection with tout organization
uily when ill health made it impossil-le
for him t- use an instrument, lie lie
lotig'cl t- the Musicians' Protective as
sociation ami was an adherent of t'e
Kiu-is.iial church. Among workingtncii
in Barre be was i.iomiii' nt as a Sociab
and for a numl r ot eirs be was hum
Iv to l found in the i enter of that
pai t v s act if :e-.
The fun-era! will 1"' '
Satin-lav aHeii-'ii at J
W. J. M. I'- i.H C. Tcetor
of tie t;,..,d Sicph-i l.
listing il. igyinan and mt
made in i! -)'e enu !. r .
expression of opinion on the pro
to pave Smith .Main street from
the present stone terminus to the bridge,
'-' ' i new meet nrnige, and lay a ce
ment sidewalk on the west side of tho
highway found the city council one vote,
short of unanimity at its regular session
last night. Xevertheless, the aldermanio
street committee, acting on the informal
vote, is to take the estimate of Citv En
gineer F. O. lx-e before the voters to get
their sanction in bonding the city for a
term of years to finance the project. Al
derman Keynolds, contendrng that the,
time is not yet ripe for making the im
provements, raise'd a lono voice against
his colleagues.
Matters involving a suggestion that
the council would do well to hew to tho
line in meter installations were discussed
earnestly and at length nt a meeting of
the board of aldermen after the council
adjourned. The habit of staving bv a
proposition until the last run is fired
has gained such a firm grip on the coun
cillors that they made ad inurnment, a.
finality at 11:30 o'clock with scemimr
reluctance.
Apart from the fact that latterly tho
members were content to let loose the
floodgates of oratory as a substitute for
action, the evening was pretty well
crowded with business. Ex-Mayor W. H.
Ward headed an Ayers street delegation
into the council chamlier and asked for
needed improvements on that thorough
fare, neglected now- these six years. Va
rious substantial reasons were advanced
for road and sidewalk improvements and
the street committee was authorized to
use its judgment in making repairs.
Charles A. Liindpien and others from
Fast street and vicinity appeared with a
program for improvements in that neigh
borhood. The program incorporated si
many sweeping changes that it was de
cided to let tho committee of the whol
go over the ground before taking a defi
nite, stand on how much money, if any, ""
is to be expended. Kim. Hall and East
streets were mentioned in the petition.
The South Main Street Project.
It was Chairman Glyssnn of the street
committee who called the attention of
the council to the advisability of action
if the South Main street project is to be.
carried through this year. Engineer Lee
submitted an estimate calling for 7.000
square yards of paving at a cost of .25,-
i7."i. 1.1")0 sfiuare yards of cement side
walk at J?I, IaO, sewer and surface, sewer
adjustments at i'2.0tl0, 7r,0 feet of curb
ing at Jf7." and a steel bridge at $7,500,
with an allowance of HI per cent for con
tingencies. The suggestion that the,
street commitee confer with the street
railway company in regard to its part in
the project will likely bear fruit, as the
committee is to meet the railway offi
cials at an early date. All told, the en
gineer estimated, the project will mean
an expenditure of ft, 000, with the elec
tric road bearing one-quarter of the cost
and the abutters a certain part of the
burden. It is proposed to bond over a
period of several years and it is unneces
sary to add that the success or failure of
the project hinges on the attitude of tho
electorate. Every member of the coun
cil, including the mayor and excepting
Alderman Keynolds, who is undoubtedly
opposed to the idea, expressed himself in
favor of the plan.
Police Matters.
A system of telephonic patrol boxes to
be operated through the central olliee of
the Vermont Telephone & Telegraph
company was advocated by Chairman
Healy of the police committee. The orig
inal proposal to install lioxes atvAvers,
Granite and Berlin street intersections
of South Main and X'orth Main street
found instant favor and more than that
the council was disposed to sanction si
lioxes. instead of three. Details of tho
patrol system were left with the commit
tee to work out. The telephone com
pany offer to install instruments at a
cost of f hi each and added to this ex
pense will lie the cost of purchasing
weather proof stations. The police will
be reouired to report regularly, while on
their lieat. to In adipiarter through tho
medium of the 'phones, which are alsit
designed, t aid the ollicers in emergen
cies. time more the council considered ths
proposal to establish the olliee of deputy
chief, an ollicial who would have control
over the police at night and during tho
absence of the firt chief. It was point
ed out that the council h.nl already au
thorized the appointment of a deputy
chief ami the committee wa instructed
to dralt an amendment to the city ordi
nances making the olliee a legal one.
' 1 at
-t
the hoiis-
, k. B. v
the Clnir i
ill c the of!!.
ermei.t will b.-
TOOK LAUDANUM.
But Rodney LaTan of V:iton is Expc.te!
to Keiovrr. I ;
: il I ' f" 'i v t j P n s ' .
Fire Department Appointments.
While the aldermen were in -es-ioii
Mayor Gordon sent in two appointments,
l! h of which wcie confirmed unsni-mou-Iv.
K. I. Carpenter, for two year
.f third cticHi-'cr. !.-ome svond engineer
. j of the d. i-aituierit to succeed W. F.
B-k. recently tiiseaseit. .r. tarpentera
'.ut is tilio-1 by Alex. Cordiner. who h
leit the ,);. i.-nt rapt till of th Ni'rt'i
Barre hose company tor set era I iat.
point incut of .Mr. ( arp nter an t Mr.
or.bn-'r as -oi, j and third assi-tant
tigimiTs. r t'e-1 ite'v, ere recommend
ed bt l b et i.l'oi.iiiig. tbe minor 'tat-d.
Water Meter Di?cusMon.
1 i , a - . i a it- e of Water Si-i rr in en f -.
... . j. it i a sina'l ben -;te .f m- t-e
H wl -ii lilt in. f.t lad t'-n reti
t r t' -! t "! s '
J i r-
Mdtoit. A;
t. k four oi
f.t. i- i't
i-r. It.
!-. i OUT
'!
. H lute! J .li-. !--ioii tl.at w ,!.
i..i to uin t!e hoard up I i a latai
. t I- ' i.'iitii- en- wa to. r f.
, .- ' ,t - . -t t "" o I ' ' : t-- -
... ; . , t .14 ... . t s s; ' ,. t
I III I
lr. L
f-'-ttt'n pi
