VOLUME XXXI. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAV, APRIL 19 1916 U
-91
PIUU(KA I I CLUIBS
TO M[TA AWDAY
To Reorganize Ond Elect
Delegates.
CAMPAIGN CIRCUS
HOLDS ATTENTION
Interest will Likely be ('entered in the
Question of Abolishing the County
to-County ('ampaign. ('onvention
'will be Snaier than i l Previous
Years.
Political interest in the county is
now centered largely in the Democrat
ic club meetings which are to be held
Saturday. According to the notice ap
pearing in the papers over the signa
ture of R. E. Blabb, county chairman,
the clubs are to elect a president, one
or more vice presidents. a secretary
and treasurer, a committe on re.gis
tration, an executive committee and
such other committees as each club
may think expedient. 1Each club will
also elect its proportionate nuinher of
delegates to the County Convent ion
and on1e mtoemller of the (ounty Execu
ive Committee. The ('ounty ('onven
tion will be held in the con it house
Monday morning, May 1st.
So far as can he learned, there is
only one issue likely to create any
considerable interest in the club meet
ings outside of the election of dele
gates to the county convention. This
issue is that of abolishing the county
to-county campaign "circud'. Con
siderable discussion of this has tak
en place within the past few months
and doubtless the sentiment of the
mass of voters will be gathered from
the reports from the club meetings. It
lys been urged that each club express
its sentiments on the question by in
structing the delegates for or against
this method of conducting the cam
paign. Of course the issue would then
come up again in the County Conven
tion and the majority opinion of the
county expressed in whatsoever way
the convention may decide best.
The County Convention this year
will be perceptibly smaller in mem
bership than conventions of recent
previous years, on account of the
change in the rules for the election of
delegates. Hleretofore the delegates
have been elected according to the
number of names on the club lists. As
names have often been duplicated and
even allowed to remain on the rolls
long after the death of the club mem
hers, the number of delegates from
each club has been in malny instances
more than what the actual number of
voters justilied. For instance, there
were two clubs in the city of Laurens
previous to last year and many names
appeared on both club lists and some
on the lists several times. This was
not usually intentional on the part of
the club member, but was caused by
carelessness on the part of the enroll
ing committees. hlowever it may have
come about there wer'e about fifty dele
gates from the Tilurens cIty (Ilubs.
whereas In t he comtng con vent Ion
there will be but twenty-two from t he
conisolidanted clb. This year the del
egates will be elected accordling to the
numb1 er of votes actually pol led in the
first pri ma ry of 191-1, a clu b belng en
titled to one delegates for each twen
ty-flve voters angl one for a majority
fract ion thereof. The pol11 lists them
selves would naturally be the best an
thiority on wvhich to dleelde the repre
sentation of qach cluib in the conven
tion, but as these lists could not be
conveniently reahod, The Advertiser
has gone back to the election returns
of 1014 for one office where there were
two cnididates, viz, Judge of Probate.
and compiled the total vote east and
the number of delegates which etach
club would be nohttied to, usinit that
vote as a standard. it should be~ de~fi
nitoly utnderstood, ho~wever, that the
Advietis& dans not submit this as the
official number of votes east In that
primary, though in all probability it is
correct. TPhe followving is the tabula
tlon:
. Name of Club Votes Delegatest
Ora 29 1
Pattersons Stor'e 27 '1
Waterloo 06 h
Mt. Pleasant 07 3
10kon ' 88 4
(Goldville 0* 3
P'rinceton 61 3
Watts llts ..230 9
'Tip Top . 59 2'
Croan ill 200 8
!COUNIY SUO[ FAIR
DR['THOUS DS
Children Marched while El
ders Looked On
LAURENS TOWNSHIP
SCORED HIGHEST
The Annual County School Fair
Eclipsed Former Fairs in N unber
of Children in Attendance and Num.
her and Worth of the Exhibits.
The Third Annual County School
Fair, held Friday, was a pronounced
success in every way. The exhibits
in arts and crafts in the court house
were varied and of exceptional merit.
The academic contests in the graded
school developed keen rivalry between
the various schools and townships,
bringing out talent of a high order.
Keen rivalry marked the athletic con
tests on the school grounds and many
high records were made. The parade
during the morning hour was an at
tractive feature of the day, approxi
mately 3,000 children, teachers and
trustees marcling in line. Lastly, but
contributing to a well-rounded day,
was the immense crowd of parents
and rcelaives interested in the welfare
andc advancement of the children. The
day was an ideal one, from the weath
er standpoint, and tle very best was
made of it by the large crowd, both
socially and educationally.
Laurens carried off the major por
tion of the honors in the class room
exhibits, literary contests, athletics
and declamation. O. 13. Simmons, Jr.,
of Laurens, won the highest honor in
the high school oratorical contest and
was awarded the Minter medal. Eu
gene Richbourg, of Clinton, came
second ,in, this contest and. was award
ed the Association medal. Curtis
Teague, of Mountville, received hon
orary mention. The Laurens track
team, Harry McAlister, captain, was
awarded the Fleming cup for the high
est average in the high school ath
letic cotnests. The prize given annu
ally by the Henry Laurens chapter,
I). A. R., to the pupil of the rural
schools submitting the best original
essay on .'nited States history, was
awarded to Miss Lillian Martin, of
Cross 11111. Alvin Power, of Ora, came
second in this contest. All of these
prizes and awards were made at the
close of the oratorical contest Friday
evening.
It was the concensus of opinion
Ihat Ihe contests and exhibits in nearly
every departinent were of a higher
order than those of former years, thus
furnishing good grounds for belief
that the s cools are maling great
strides in effectiveness. rl'o single
outc any individual exhiblit for special
mention would do others of great
merit an injustice, as there might be
varied opinions of the relative it
portalnce of different lines of school
endeavor. It Is suflicient to say, how
ever, that the exhibits, wit hout ex
cept ion, were such as any school
might. w~elIlibe proud of and the 'omt
binecd exhibits retlect gr'ealt credit upl
on the county3 and its educclatilonal forc
es.
Th'le following awards were an
nu~inced by thle judges:
Nehlooi Exhibits, (liass loomo Work.
liest IExhibit in County:
1st, Laurens City School.
2nd, Watts Mill School.
(Cont inuedi on Page Eight.)
Gray Court 183 7
Clintoni 270 11
Poplar Springs 117 ...5
Taangston 83 3
Wado 50 2
D~ials . 54 2
(lInton Miills 178 7
hiooieweill6 2
Lydlia Mills t;n
Laurens Miljid 15 -' 7
Mouintville i'~In 4
llehndi '' 7g 3
Powver 14g 8
PledWisut Moundl 59
l3aiels Sloro lot 4
Laurens 548 22
Woodvlle 143 i
Grays Store di 2
.Youngs '96j 4
Hickory Tavern '141 6I
L.anford 44 2
Cooks Store ' 79 3
Stewarts Store 43 2
Total 3834 -156
Clean Up and Paint Up Week
April 20-27
'I'rlllvday--rliC Prevention 1)ay
('Ieaul your, ecllars1 anld atties of rubbish, greasy rags and
waste paper, wherever possible.
F' riday--FVron t. Yard I)ay
Cut lawns, plant flower beds, ele an walks and gutter's. SaIt
eracltks in sidewalks, exterminate .pnts.
Business houses elan windows and'rep lave old a1wniigs.
Sat urday--Vacinut Lot and B ack Yard Diayv
Bloy Scouts atnd school ehildre eclean vacanit lots. reuoving
tin vanns, paper and brush. Plow and plant rden plots
if possible.
Monday --Weed I)ay
Rid y(or laws of danii delions; triml) bushes and giardens.
Try to rid this iity of the weed pest.
Tuesday - Paint I)ay
Paint tp insideI and out, porehes, fences, wood-work ;and
poir(lh hairs.
Wevdnesdal~y - 1 'Preventio n anld Finlishing IDay
( leain alleys. repauir I'enes and sheuls, screen glrbage eaIns.
P'11 11y I raps on lgarbagl!e ('ans. Puit onl sr1eenl floors. ('om
p)lete( the" (eh-aning) aup werever" needed.
Thursay la\ I 'lasur I )ay
Iluiojv a clei ian. hal thy eit v.
RALROAD M[[TIG
Laurens Sends Large Dele.
gation to Cross Anchor
ANOTHER MEETING
NEXT THURSDAY
ILarge LIurens Ielegatioin A tttended
the ileeting anmd Pledged the Sup
port of tihis ('it.y in the i1iilig of
the Line. .J. F. .lucobs Named
('hairiman of committees.
Yesterday afternoon at three o'clock
a group of representative basisiness
moen from Spartanburg, Gleon Springs,
Woodrut, tinion, Iiobbysvillc, Held
Ville, White Stone, Cross Keys, (Tin
ton and LIaurens, met at (ross Ancbor
for the purpose of tortntlatig some
definite plan for the building of some
kind of railroad, either steam or ('elee
tric, adeqluate for the hatdling of
transportation between those points.
The meeting was 'alled to order by
i)r. l'atton, of Cross Anehor, who
intale a short add(res;s, a1 the end of
which he nominated .\lr. .1. ". .liacos.
(If linton, as temp~orary c"hairmuan (of
tile teteing. This notination was l
caurried. .\lr. .Jacobs then outlined gla,
purpose of the meet ing, which, he said,
was for the purpose of arranging for
somec mode otf transtportationi for this
section of the country. lie stated that
he, as a representative of the ('ham
her of Comime'ce of the city of ('in
ton, had over five hundred dollars to
offer for a preliminary survey of the
proposed road; that Clinton wanted
the road to conic to that city, and that
they would do all in their power to
help Cross Anchor secure it. The
meeting was then thrown open to the
house, the chairman calling on repre
sentative men from every city or town
along or near the proposed routes.
All of the representatives from the
above mentioned towns and cities
stated that their towns were heartily
in favor of the new road, and that
they stood ready and willing to offer
all of the support possible. The meet
ing then got clown to 'brass tacks".
Mlr. W. 1. (;ray, of l tanrens, said that
he thought that in order for the pre
liminary survey to be made that tle
route ought. to be decided tpon: and
as a reslt of this statement .\r. (;ray
nutde a motion that the new road start
from Spartanhurg and go by Wh'1ite
Stone, Imobbysville, (lenn -:rings.
Walnut (irove, Cross Anchor- to La
rens, and thence to Clinton. .Mr. (irav
thent went oil to say that the citizens
of Laurens not only had comne to the'
meeting with offers of good wishes
and contributions for the survey of
the new road. but with plats of a pre
liminary survey of a road from Letu
that. lie wouhill he morc thantl ghbid to
submttit t his surv'~ey. \ fler muchi arl
wihmion wasCl sconced mad ar.
A generl exchanlge of aidvi. e lol
seemiedl to agrjee tha thl Ile roadit wVould1
ml somet waly tonnject with Iiro'ss An -
v'ille wanted tile road(. Sc) .\i. (;Iay
v'ille Wated ' thle roadi. So. Atr. ( raty
made anlothier moitin to the effect that
a ('om1mit tee from one to thiree men
fromeachcommujnity Iiterestedi be
elete frm heir respctive comu)Iltn
itles andi this commnlten meet on the
twenty-tfith of this month at Cr'oss
Anchor, for said committees to come
preplaredi to offer enloughi to have a
piinnary $aurvey madecl to their re
spiective towns if they so wIshed; thatt
the startinug point, and the detiatifton
of the iroadl he deeldedi niPh later.
Th Is mtion ol WiA uti nnImously car
iiedl and i thtioinmitt ecs elected.
Mir. . W'. .Incobs was elected piresi
deli of thle cornmmIttees antd Mr. l'aul
Mcorte, secrietary of the Spairtantburlg
Cha mber olf (Commerce, was (eheeled
secretariy. The meeting then adi
jou rn ed.
About 50 or 75 representativts at
tended the meeting from Lasi-ens anti
the Laurens men played a bfg part in
the deliberations. Mr. 'N. L. Gray
was spoliesman for the I4Xurens dele
gation and repreierii Nhis city ably
in theo discuissidus.
IssuPROCLAMAION
ON CLEAN-UP[t[
Mayor Calls on All Citizens
to Co-operate.
CAMPAIGN WILL
START TOMORROW
Proprraini ihas Ien IbrawnH filp for 11Io
Week's (ampaig-n and Eiery Owner
11nd Itent'r of 'remises is Expected
to Do Ills ('art. in ('eaninr 'p.
The "('lean-up and i'aint-up" cam
paign, inaugurated by the Mletter Iaau
reni ('lab and heistg jo1ined it' whole
heartedly by all Ihose who feel an in
terest in the '-eauty and healthful con
ditions of the city, starts tomorrow.
The catpaign has beon careftully tap
ped out by a cointuittec, so that the
Work will be sys;tetatically carried on.
A great deal of enlthu siasil has been.
sIirred 1up over the calpaign and woI
derful results are expect d 1o ie se
('1t d. layo, On% ings has issued a
pr'(wlarniation otlicia ly desiaa in." Ihe
we'k of A pril 21-27 as "'lean-ulp and
l'aint-ulp" w and has prolnisrd the
co-opleratlin of the city for(c':; in d1o
ing Ihe job thoroury;hly. The e'ily gar
hage wagons will all its the residenceo
dist iils I' trash on the 25ti anti 2.ll.
11tor's l'ros i.nnnlatlion.1
Thel following is the proclamtation
of the mayor:
"Piroclanuit.ion.
"The ('ity of 1411 trens, acting togeth
er with the iletter Laurens (lub, has
designated the week of April 20 to
April 27 I inclusive) as the ('Clean Up
and Paint Up week for Laurens.
"During this week every citizen of
iLaurens should Inake an effort to
clean up his house and property so as
to avoid fire risk and make his proper..
t'y more attractive. He should clean
up his front and back yard, abolish all
places that inight breed flies and mnos
qlitoes, paint his premises if neces
sary, eliiniate dandelions and .weeds
and Help to clean up vacant lots. '
"Pitizens should not pl'e their rub
bish on the street or sidewalk in such
a way that the wind can scatter it. It
should be put in a box, can, or bag so
that the street department may easily
load and eart it away. Boxes should
not be so large th it two m1en can not
lift thern . 1' ('very citizen will do this
1litrens can he readily cleanld. 'I'llo
city forces n ill call f(Ai and cart away
trash placed on street. (urbing oil
April 251ti and 26th.
"This is an opporltnity for every
('itizen to show him civic pride. No city
is attractive ifi it i lirty and littered
up. All should he4. willing to co-oper
ale in cleaning up not only their owni
premuises. bult inl helping to acan utp
the premuises of others where. help is
nec'essarIy.
"l11et s all put our sholers' to the
whevel and (lean lip and paint up au
rens during this next week. l.et t, all
work together and keep it that way
lilanlt grass andi tloIwers thlat illuren
Th islt will lbt a ('hlaner, healhier,
hiapp~y, andlt biore1 attrattive ('ity.
I la. il'ilay ~l'~l Y aiii '.\ty a tir."
1"lTonorrow il b'ire lsay'eenltio
IDay, b'riledas t a rd ('X~ y.' tur
a d1ay of rest anti recreation aifter' theO
week's task Is completed, when the red
suits of the lablors may be ('njoyedl and
the enhanced boauty of the city ad
mliredI.
Tile following resohutionls were sign
ed by the officials of varIons or'gaiaI
tions:
'We1 the( und~ers5igned presidents of
thle varlius organl'iz/ations5 of il'ren,
Ipledlge our1 co-operat ion and su pport
inl tile Clean ii p anti Palint 'p ('aml
ilaignl Which is to be obesrved'i frot
Apr~il 20 to April 27:
TI. .I. Me~l Iister, Scout. Master.
Mrs. W. 1. G ray, pr'esidg 6$rwo tem1.
Wednesday Club.
.\irs. .. it. TeagueO, presldenlt theo
King's Daughters.
Mrs. Hi. C. I'ilminlg, Resent D). A. R,.
1Miss LUlla Todd, who is attentdig
Brenau College and Consqgv~tory, t
at home for the n~rt'tag Qt her siston\
Miss Mary To4k to M'., U& V1 Iby. thia
evening.
SENDS FINAL NOTE ON SUBMARINES
Only an Immediate Change in Submaraine Policy can
Make Possible a Continuance of Friendly Relations,
Says the President.
Washington, April 17.--The com- imarines on merchant vessels since
munication which has been drafted as Germany gave notice that ships carry
the last word of the United States to lng guns would be considered as ves
Germany on the submarine issue was sels of war have been closely studied
completed today by President Wilson. by the president with the conclusion
It probably will be dispatched to Ber- that promises made by Germany have
lin tomorrow. not been followed. When the prep
The document reviews Germany's aration of the case of the United
Germany's submarine activities since States was begun it was found that 615
the Lusitania was stink and makes vessels have been reported officially
plain that only an immediate change and utinotlletally as having been attack
In the Gerna n policy cnin make pos- ed without warning by German sub
sible the continuance of friendly re- mailes wittin Ile last few weeks.
lations between the two nations. OttIda riports lave not contirmed .ll
As the ipresident was pulittng the Ihese incidents, however, and thlie
finisling touches to tlie note oflicial fore all will not te incluled.
word was received by thle state de- Tie attack on the channel steamer
partmen: tla the lies of two Amer- Sissex, carr'ig more than a score
leans had been endail gered bty an at- 01 \ti tins. ti been I11(1(2(1 in
tack on hie Itssian bark imperator, 1 he evidence of itls iii ted States as
1)01111 1 from (Ji:fprt, Miss., for Mar- 0 o the sirongest proofs of (1er
seilles, by an Alff'friatn submarine. tiany's failure to adhere to lier
Clark hailey Ilurst. Amtericatn consul i'ontis.
eneral at harcelona, Spain, who sent I tiolicill it'lis from lilii il
the report, said the attack was with- (bGermaltv was willing to meet the
out warning. One of the Atericans United Stales "more than half %%ay"
was wounded by shrapnel shells. Laye en'ouraged officials lete to hope
A full Investigation of the incident that the ( ;ii gove11me1t clay
report. is borne out, it is probable mala 1 on1esions whi wul1 pre
report is bourne out. It is probable lAO I a brea in lindly relatis.
that representations siimdar to those '1 preskent, however, was iepre
about to be made to Germany will be se Imlay a.; biing deteinel to
sent to Austria-lungary. I force tle question to a speedy setile
As soon a1s the president hadflinish - ileit without. ibling or diplo
ed the ommunincation to (ermany he tit discussions.
directed that Chairman Stone of tle! Ambassador ieinstorff cam to
senate foreign rr-lat ions omminittee he Washington trot New York tonight.
Invited to the 'htite louse in order is ret on Isle eve of the ispatch
that he might be informed of the in- of tie At t'ean note glve ise to
tentions of the administration. Sena- considerable speclion as to w'eth
tor Stone probably will see the prest- er le had received inst'uctions from
dent tomorrow minrnig before tile his gvernment which might Iiluence
cabinet meeting. Mr. Wilson himself the corse of the United States. it
was the only offleial familiar with all was stateu at the embassy that the
the details of the document tonight, ambassador had no new instructions,
but it was learned authoritatively that although it was possible lie would call
it is the most emphatic and vigorous at the state tjiiartmelf tomorrow tQ
diplomatic paper the prefiident ever lea'n the views of tie united Mates
has approved. and Infotm Secretary Lansing regard
Attacks without warning by sub- jug those of his own government.
Pliity at Prrieidshii Mftiihk 64 iWAW~i Lititii (iui,.
The pup-ills of the I'riendshll i~oil 'rhei'e will le a public meeting of the
will ghvi the reirY "'Mist. 'iggs of the .Bet tel'Ia rets ('ll in the graded
l'61ulti' Yard"' at thlie schoolhouse next school aiints,1hhl on Thursday even
trirY nighta April 22nd. It is givenot nle
' the benefit of tile school andl all are 'og'ai t1a1k ben tlannel. tverarod
invited to come. The adlmission fees is invitedl to lbe piresent.
are 10 and u1s cents.
''l(meeting oif the South Catholina I Mre vig Mahaffey Alied 'at his
'resbytery, held tit Hock Springs ione ofin illiamston, a irr y after
church last week,wa' largely attend- noon. lie had bee i sick sve t'al
ed and greatly en(oyed by the dole- weeks and the inlringatves of ol age
gates. The delegates were entertain- cause of his death . lie was born In
ed in the hhomes of the hospitable Laurens county, 89 years ago. lie
people of that' ejnmufltity and the married a (wrens lady, Mtss Mary
stay of the Presbyte~'ians ws made A. Garrett, who died several years
plnaent and profitable. a d.-au ys ben Daily Mati.
