:-
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. HI.-NO. 42
KOENIG IN COMMAND
German Craft Brings Another
Cargo of Valuable Dye- v
stuffs
NEW LONDON, Conn., Nov. 1 After
t)urrtttn& rough October tales, the German
Buuacn ireignier ueuiscmanu uockcu hcic-
early today on her second American voy
e
Twenty-one days oiit from Bremen, she
tturomea jhrough the Long Island Sound
oyer nwuor shortly after midnight, wun
hV-r crew of twenty-five, happy and heatthy,
Mjl htr va.jued cargo of rare medicines and
dye IntactL
An InaicUtton tliat tho underseas boat
eifeHed W depart seon was given when
Jtifcderlck Hlnsch, of tho Eastern
ftMjijef Company, declined to seal the
WrAiss outfit on the craft at the demand
'fit Ljutenknt C. E. Brlggs, of tho United
"M, NaSry, The Eastern Fonvardlng
CoieeMy owns the submarine.
,J Scott lug bearing Captain Hlnsch, of
Tt Deuttoto Oxean Rhederel, Deutschland
ntrs, sheeted 'Vlllkommen" to his friend,
ptaln Koenlg. the smiling skipper from
Iutringla.JThe tug cast her a line and
re ciiuttM triumphantly Into the inner
Mbor. J
! Health and customs officers, notified only
brief time before her arrival, watved
United Stats regulations on the word of
Pfcaptaln Kotnlg that the crew was healthy
I j.na anawed ber to pass quarantine without
awaiting ror town.
HAD ROUGH VOYAGE
Up past ilecpy Groton, opposite New
London, the Deutschland docked In the
State pier, fas fenced In by a boarded
screen find tnsfcrrcd her men to tho .North
German, LlSd liner Wlllehad, alongside.
nV ne Wjye'hsSjj-hadwalted long the coming
01 a suDsea freignier, ana memoers 01 ner
crew were "dtspondent over unmistakable
evidence thsit the Bremen, another
freighter. ha4.perishcd. So there was Joy
when Captain Koenlg and his sturdy crew
et foot abpird the "mother ship." which
Was recently 'Charged from London with
v, being o German submarine wireless station.
S Aar.tafh VA-mlv anrf rntnln TTInanh iallrart
but Utile to the few watchers who knew
o the''' Deutschland -r!val.
The trip was un entful," said Captain
Koenlg, with a merr twlnklekjn his eye.
"Tes, wp did have some bad weather In
fact, extremely bad wather for two davs.
;5 J! ana 'ess xtremo the remainder of tha voy-
ago unifi we were mree uaya oil America.
Then, he said, the October gales abated, and
the vessel rode calmly.
"We had trouble at Bremen, colliding
JiJ,.. with andther vessel," ho continued. "That
V"s .''Jald us, up ten days for repairs. We're
glad to see America again."
:. Koenfg'a papers read "bound for Balti
more, or any other Atlantic seaport," but the
best available Information was that he be
lieved his .chances of running the Allied
oast patrol to be better by heading Into
Net? London
AnillES SAME CREW
Reaching" the three-mile limit, the crew
rwaa overjoyed, for they knew then that
, their danger was past. Then the vessel
i .
i , 11U mLkD&ELLblLU
in
it
Indiana Campaign Will End To-
(k night, wten Candidate
I ," Jjeavtse cv xunv
r
nA,
.
:,W '
KAJWVIIXB, H. Nov, 1, Predicting
i '. awn' eiaetion. iharlea II Huarhea left
Lgjearty . today for another day's trip
gh Indie, fhlch will wind up his
m in'iw Mfdie Yfjtax. At 9 o'clock
His epaciaf train will leave Terra
t for New Yolc
Tray's schedulf cajled .for speeches at
Divan, Linton, iloomlngton. Brazil and
rnre Haute, ThJ candidate planned to
wwjay on fake prosperity and Demo.
Incompetency
rfTesf on FirV'McCormlck
v "We Put It OuV'Willcox
1 CM .TIC
WCiw vnm; Vr
rANCB C. McCOHMICK, chair
Mil of the pemoeretio Commit
. ivuv saia: .
FWb will ,! rru- tif-. .
it Wilson sentiment.1'
.Chairman WMcox, of the Jtepub
qm Committee) when told oJ this,
Te liave put
out the fire."
:the weather
m
f'O,
PkiUtdelp,
is wut tvti
vihiky-.Fah'
"wiv, Htffht;
t.
S4 TttVAipil a nAV
9,,,. 4;W1 .m.naVS sotitlu: lii a.m.
mCLAWAKK KHH.IW iMXHmtL
LtM mttm Mtut
jiiBiinLinK: jrr 41
TNANCIAL EDITIO
y
. t.
, .;
it
uentnn
v3STRA7
.
AjV
Xr k.71 . X-
fe&get
HIGMT
EXTRA
DEUTSCHLAND
AGAIN DASHES
INTO U.S. PORT
Subsea Liner Slips Under
, Fleet and Docks at
New London
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, NOVELBER 1, 11)10
Cortmonr, 11, sr MiPcsito LtponCour.NT
PRICE ON OrfMT
RJ' W' SSDR I
B 7T kw JalllllllllllllllllM
.vf-3'4i-JBgm.WSL 1
' fMMif nni 1
t IiiiBfH..IIIIIIIH.H
JANE BONNER AND ASSAILANT
Curiously enough, he picture of
John Murtha, who stabbed the
young girl, shows him in a reverent
ifose as a altarboy. v
BONNER'S DAUGHTER
STABBED BY BOY AT
HALLOWEEN FROLIC
Acquaintance, Teased by Merry
makers, Wields Knife Girl
Victim Calls It "an
Accident"
EXPECTED TO RE,CXYJEI.
BU
Jane Bonner, fifteen-year-old daughter of
Nell Bonner, president of the Retail Liquor
Dealers' Association, Is In the Polyclinic
Hospital with a kntfa wound, and John
Murtha, also fifteen years old, of 2S14 Kim
ball street, was released In lho custody of
George S. Stewart, an attorney at the House
of Detention today as an aftormath of Hal
loween revelry.
The girl was stabbed In the abdomen while
In front of her home, 2015 Carpenter street?"
last nleht while a crowd of juvenile mum
mers and impersonators Bayly oelebrated.
She will recover.
Murtha will have a hearing when the girl
Is able to leave the hospital.
"Don't blame the little boy," she told
physicians at the hospital today. "It was
an accident."
The girl's father told the police lie would
not prosecute.
"My daughter told me that perhaps she
was as much to blame as the boy,".' said Mr.
Bonner. "Tho crowd she was In knew Mur
tha, but ho did not recognize them, because
of their costumes. When they closed In on
htm he warned them that he would f tab
them."
Murtha, who has a eood reputation and
Is an altar boy In St, Anthony's Catholic
Church, had been paying a visit to a friend
In the neighborhood when a crowd of youth
ful mummers and' Impersonators accosted
him. Jane Bonner was In the throng of
fantastically garbed boys and girls mas
querading as Murtha took refuge on a step.
As. the weird, throng of mummers ap
proached he drew out his penknife, the
police eay. Jane Bonner was nearest him
In the jostling crowd. Some one, pushed
her against tha knife, which was at Mur
tha's side, according" to the police.
Frightened by the scream of the wounded
girl, Murtha fled. He was arrested at
Twenty-thlrd street and Washington ave
nue by the police of the Twentieth and
Fltxwater streets station.
ABUSED FPU KOT PRAYING .
Woman Says Husband Who Seeks Di
vorce Banged Her Head for
Refusal
In the divorce suit of Otis Harrington, 304
Warren avenue, Camden, agalnstyAnna May
Harrington, which Is being heard today, by
Master in, Chancery Grey, In Camden, the
woman testified that when she refused to
pray with her husband ho would bang her
head against the bed.
"I am not Christian," I(e testified, "and
dbn't believe la prayer I used to tell my
husband that he would do better to pray
w.Jth Jils son, who was learning to smoke
and swear .and shoot, crap."
Mr. Harrington some time ago sued her
.huabxnd fori Mparata maintenance, and he
aMwered )vlth a counter-suit for divorce,
naming a ,'eorMpondeot a grocery clerk
ittWiHlWward William,
lt wasteUd that ub wrote bar bus
bnd,'aklng h(m to dtvonoa bar so,ie could
get'a goo4fathr or Dp ehlWrap, There
are flva, running in ag r-wn flftn ummjHw
to thlrtoen yaar. v
qr)MM Krfa-' Eight KliM
BMB, .Nov. 1.--U-WM inoouaort y
tVU Ytkn thft mm Werwatl--. Ud
cn raoerft tW 0uy 14 riw.evt
wa wmwmw Mmr. w priaata and
a w-NMftT-, w mmmm mmntr, who
If ar-nu
OLD-TIME REPUBLICAN MAJORITY
PREDICTED BY CONGRESSMAN VARE
AN OLD-TIME Republican majority in Philadelphia for Hughes and Fair
banks and for tho Republican State ticket was predicted today by
Congressman William S. Varc, in calling upon Phlladclphians to support
Hughes. Congressman Varo's statement lollows:
"Reports from all sections of tho
city indicate an old-time itcpuuucan
majority for Charles E. Hughes and
tho cntlro Republican ticket next
Tuesday. The peoplo of the city
havo come to realize that tho pros
perity of today is duo to the Euro
Ecan war. They also have been
rought to consider tho effect of
Democratic rule at tho close of tho
Great War.
"During the last two years tho
rapidly increasing Republican vote
in Philadelphia has been such as to
indicate what has materialized this
year. Tho registration is the great
est sincda tho passago of tho per
sonal registration law, as is the en
rollment for the Republican party.
"Patriotic Americans are desirous
of hnving a porson to head tho
nation who will give us peace with
honor, prosperity without war and
protection for our workingmen.
With this in view it behooves nil to
vote for Charles E. Huchcs for
President."
WILLIAM S. VARE
C
HaaaaaaHPaaaaaB.......
IB !9k SRi.llllllllllH.lllllllllllllllt
naK 'aK'i' WVLL'
ft wtM!:.lalW
ataVaUaKaHaaaaaH
OIL RING'S $10,000
REWARD MAY GO
TO CAMDEN COPS
Capture of Confessed Slayer
of Cleveland Lawyer
Brings Hope
HICH MEN SEEK SOLUTION
A fund of $10,000, the contributors of
which were John D. Bockefeljer, Myron T.
Herrlck, former Ambassador to France,
and William Nelson Cromwell, will be given
to the police pension fund of Camden, If
Wood II. Brown, a. twenty-flve-year-old
negro, Is convicted of the mysterious
murder of WHUara. L. Bice, millionaire
lawyer and politician, of Cleveland, who
was ono of the best known citizens of tha
Buckeyo State.
Brown has confessed that he Is the much
sought assassin who shot and stabbed Rice
to death while tho latter was walking along
ono of the. avenues of Euclid Heights, a
fashionable suburb of Cleveland, six years
ago. Detectives left Cleveland "toflay for
Camden. Brown's description of how he
left tho body on a road and placed It In such
a position as to give the Impression that
death was due to an automobile accident
has convinced tho police of Cleveland that
he la telling the truth.
CAPTURED AS HOLD-UP MAN
The fund of $10,000 was raised a few
days after Rice was murdered. At that
time it was stipulated by tho contributors
that the fund should exist until Rice's mur
derer was caught Brown's capture was
made by a Camden policeman. He was ar
rested for attempting to hold up a Jitney
driver near Hammonton, N, J., last Monday,
An hour after being placed In a. cell ha
Identified himself as tha murderer of Rice
with these words.
"I am the nigger who killed Rice, the law
yer, of Cleveland."
Members of the police force In Camden
are forbidden to accept rewards for cap
tures of criminals. All rewards must be
turned over to the pension fund.
The murder of Rice, which occurred al
most In froYit of tho homo of former Am
bassador Herrlck, not only baffled ths
entire police force of Cleveland, but mysti
fied hundreds of private detectives and
criminologists. The motive for the murder
could never be established.
" Though Brown was willing to discuss the
NO COAL FAMINE
NOR PRICE BOOST
THREATENS CITY
Shippers, Dealers and Water
Bureau Chief Give Re
assuring Word
LOWEST EATES IN EAST
City Need Not Fear Coal
Famine, Dealers Declare
"TMIERE is no sign of a coal
famine. Wo are getting enough
to supply our customers. There is
somo holding back at the mines, but
it has not caused us to cut down in
our deliveries.
"Local prices for domestic sizes
range from $G a ton for pea to $8.25
for nut, with 25 cents off for cash.
On the basis of present conditions
there will be no change during the
winter.
"Philadelphia is getting its coal
cheaper than any other eastern
city." J. Ernest Rieliards, president
George D. Newton Coal Company.
"There is nothing alarming in tho
coal situation as it affects Phila
delphia. "We are able to tako care of tho
demands of this city.
"Thero is somo shortage of cars,
.but wc arc getting enough to tako
care of our trade." George C.
Coughlin, city and southern sales
agent, Philadelphia and Reading
Coal and Iron Company.
Philadelphia householders need not shiver
at the prospect of $20 coal this winter. Nor
Is 'the $10.75 price now asked by tha New
York coal dealer likely to be adopted by
the retailer here. Inquiry among pro
ducers, shippers and handlers of anthracite
In this city was met today with the declara
tion that the visible supply of hard coal
renders the situation by no means alarm
ing and that there was no reason to ap
prehend a coal famine or further advance
In price to the consumer.
Car shortage and scarcity of labor at
the mines was admitted, but persons whose
word Is regarded an authoritative said they
believed this factor had about reached Its
limit and for the remainder of the winter
the anthracite situation was likely to re
main unchanged. Enough coal waa being
Continued on Tare Two, Column Four
Contlnurd on rase Six, Column One
CHIC LAUNDRYW0MAN
DEFENDS RIGHT TO RUB
IN N0RRIST0WN COURT
i """ "
Super-Washwoman of Ardmore
Haled Before Judge for
Operating Plant in Ex
clusive Section
"J-'. :"
NEIGHBORS JOIN IN SUIT
" '""
By M'LISS
Yorf can wash your own dirty linen In
publlo and get away with it, but It's when
you try to wash other people's that the rub
comes.
The rub in this Instance has resolved
Itself Into controversy which has been
waged for tha last two days In Judge
gwurU's 9urt in Norristown between Miss
Qeorgeanna Cuthbert, ex-stenographer, now
a superlaundress of 11$ Sibley avenue, Ard
more, and MIh Maria Lueson, of 101
Thompson avenue, the sama towhln. The
latter is suing to prevent the former from
operating a ne.w laundry erected In the rear
of the house at 108 Thompson street, pur
chased last 'spring, Thre Is a provision In
the Ardmore ordinance that offensive bus!
Masses cannot be stigagad In. la washing
stfeoalveT A declatea vrtll ba randkred to
morrow, In tha xiaantlma tha Quaan of tha Suds,
who la an ar4at sjvagata of tha ''back- to
tha tub'' nwyatat, baoauaa hitting tha
keya of a typiairttar pl4 bar only albt
Iron man" a uaak, wbaraas dolour tha family-
vwk, for fly exmmms naU lur HI I wast.
w tar afiwMtU Mrain mmimt
lUilMI twa
k.mwiti
- msmmmiaam,w.
OLD JOHN BARLEYCORN
BURIED AS BELLS TOLL
GLADNESS OF VIRGINIA
"Dry" Law Effective and Brew
eries Are Turned Into Indus
trial Plants One Quart
to a Person
RUSES ALREADY DEVISED
RICHMOND. Va Nov. 1. Virginia to
day rides the water wagon the eighteenth
State to Join the procession.
Amid the tolling of church bells and while
Halloween banshees filled the midnight air,
tha Old Dominion, at the witching hour, for.
mally laid old John Barleycorn to rest.
ImmqjEe stores of wine and liquor were
purchased throughout the Htate before the
ban fell, to relieve the Jong drought to come,
Special trains, heavily laden, were run Into
all sections of tho State, while country folk
hustled along with suitcases to fortify pri
vate stocks.
More than, 800 saloons In widely scat
tered parts of tha State were put out of
business. Local option has prevailed In
most of lha counties; fW 'a .number of years,
but Richmond, Norfolk, Portsmouth, New.
port News, Lynchburg, Ptleraburg. Roan.
ek and Bristol lrt mat prehlbltlon Jt
nli)t,
Tha action of, Virginia complete, a dry
bait, from Washjagkf wutta tfrW on
Its'' aaat and fH "bJtiU1 to Naw
OrkMUi to tha wmwm.
Cfcurofc WKHmmn$ barf ava un4ar.
una to rnmtr t the laria -
QUICK NEWS
CALL HENCHMAN JAILED FOR EXTORTION
E. H, Beaumont, henchman of Magistrate "Joe" Call, who vrn
recommended for Indictment by the Grand Jury, was convicted today
on tho charges of extortion and 'bribery and sentenced to not m
than three nor less than two years In the Eastern Penitentiary, Rend-
jnont was a successor to "Jnke"' Oilman.
WILL HOLD PUBLIC HEARING ON TRANSIT LEASE
The first public hearing to discuss the draft of the proposed less
between the city and the Tlmadelnhla Rapid Transit Company lot
tho oporatlon of the municipality's high-speed system will be hela
on Friday of next week at 2 o'clock In the afternoon In Councils"
rinnnco Committee Room. One week later the P. R. T. dlrcctois and
stockholders will be Invited to a simitar hearing. Both will be held,
before the joint Finance and Street Railways Committees of Couucli..
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Windsor race, purse SOOO, 3-yenr-olds and up. t milq and
20 yvds, selling Moss Fox, 113, Williams, 94.00, ?3.30, 82.60. won;
Dorothy Cnrlln. OG, Collins, 8.40, $4.10, second; Knthleen H 102,
Kopplomnn, $2.80, third. Time, 1.43 1-5.
Second Windsor race, purse ?000, maiden 2-year-olds. 5 1-2
furlongs Amazonian, 102. Dreyer, S02.70, S17.00, $14.80, won;
Miss Tlppcrary, 102, Clnver, S5.20, $3.00, second; Sateora, 102,
Stoarns, $74.40, third. Time, 1.08 2-5.
First rimllco race, maiden 2-year-olds, 5 1-2 furlongs Lottery.
115. Keogh, S3.20, ?2.00. $2.10, won; Monomy, 115, Robinson. 84.50.
!?3.00, second; Swoon, 115, Butwell, S3.00. third. Time, l.OD 4-5.
Second Flmlico race, steeplechase, 3-yenr-olds and up, scU'uir,
2 miles Sixty-four, 130, Kennedy, $12.40, 33.20. $2.00, won; Ucw
Hnvcn, 102. Crawford, $3.80, $2.40. second; Early Light, 152, Noe,
$2.40, third. Time, 4.00.
v BUFFALO CROWDS CHEER WILSON
RUFEALO, N. Y., Nov. 1. President Wilson was cheered by crowds that lined
the streets when he arrived here twenty minutes late and motored to tho Elllcott
Club for luncheon. Locomotives In the yards kept up a fearful din as the President's
private car was drawn into the station.
$15,000,000 CREW-LEVICK MORTGAGE RECORDED HERE,
The Commercial Trust Company placed on record today a mortgage of $15,000,000
to cover an issue of six per cent bonds to that amount issued by Crew-Levick Com
pany. This Issue was authorized some time ago and 13,000,000 of tho bonds aro
already outstanding.
1
7000 OKLAHOMA MINERS ON STRIKE FOR NEW WAGE SCALE
McALLISTER, Oklo., Nov, l. Seven thousand Oklahoma coal miners went out
on general strike today following failure of the operators to agree to a new wage
scale proposed by the employes. Union officials counseled against violence. Seven
teen Independent companies signed tho scale and will continue working.
AIR FLIGHT AGAIN POSTPONED
CHICAGO, Nov. 1. After waiting several hours for favorable weather, Victor
Carlstrom today again postponed the start of his aeroplane flight, to New York
until tomorrow.
20,000 HARD COAL MINERS QUIT FOR MUNITIONS JOBS
SCRANTON, Pa., Nov. 1. Twenty thousand mine workers, mostly young men,
have quit the hard coal fields to obtain employment in munition plants and with
other manufacturing concerns throughout the country. Because of this the mines
are working short-handed. And because ot this handicap and the present, un
precedented demand for anthracite there is a shortage at tidewater and other large
centers In the East.
JAPANESE CAUGHT WITH MAPS OF PACIFIC DEFENSES
LOS ANGELES, Nov, 1. Federal oOlclals today are on their way to Ludlow,
a desert station on the Santa Fe, to question a highly educated Japanese, who was
found to have uups, drawings and pictures of United States fortifications on the
Pacific coast on his person. Tho prisoner, who gave his name as 8. Kayama, is
held on a technical charge of evading payment of railroad fare. He declines to
explain his possession of the maps.
PORTUGUESE TROOPS TAKE AFRICAN TOWN
LISBON. Nov. 1. Portuguese troops in German East Africa have defeated the
German forces, captured Newala and taken a large quantity of guns and other war
material, says a War Office announcement.
AUSTRIAN CASUALTIES 850,000 THIS YEAR
GENEVA, Nov. 1. -The Austrlans havo lost 850,000 men since the beginning
of the year, according to authoritative information received here. Of this number
450,000 ore prisoners In the hands of Russians or Italians. When Rumania declared
war Austria had forty-six divisions on tho Russian front, thirty-one on the Italian
front and two in Serbia and Albania. From these forces she withdrew eighty-eight
battalions to send against the Rumanians. This force was later augmented as
fighting grew less violent on the Russian front.
TWO AMERICAN AVIATORS KILLED BY FALL AT NANCY
PARIS, Nov. I. Two American aviators, attached to the French flying corps,
have been killed In an aeroplane accident at Nancy, says a dispatch received here
today. While in midair the machine upset. The pilot was crushed to death beneath
the motor. The observer fell from his seat and was killed by the fall. The dis
patch did not give any nnmos.
CALIFORNIA TO HAVE SCHOOL FOR OPERA
SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 1. A million-dollar fund for tho establishment of a
State school of opera for California was started at a dinner given at the Bohemian
Club to a number of leading musicians, artists end newspaper men at the invitation
of B. P. Hillock, originator of tho scheme. The plan was hailed as the most Im
portant move for creative art over attempted in America.
U. S. GIVES MUNITIONS CONTRACT
IIARRISUURO, Nov, 1, For the second time this month the Harrlsburg Pipe
and PIpe-Bendlng Company has received a contract from the United States Govern
ment for army and navy shells. The War Department has just awarded t a ton
tract for 293,000 three-Inch shells, at a price of $700,09.
. fyiJr
CUBA ELECTING PRESIDENT? SOLDIERS GUARD POLLS
HAVANA. JN'ev, 1,Wlth eoMler e guard everywhere and all the, saloon
closed, Cuba Is vottmr tody In tt4 prtwldenthU elaation. The two eapdidataa aro
General Marie Manuwl,, a CoHawvallve,--v b la saefetinr r-aletto, and General
Zayas, a HearaC, X'lee IraMe Is alo featng emoted, A pewertui rt la Utug
made by tb LlUfaW to ralR the power thay loat l 11S.
U. S. BANK RESOURCES INCREASE $6.500,&Q,K)
WASHINGTON. Koy, t, Orowth of ( th mwtSn' bankteg rtranrts klnt
passage of tha federal reserve aot la put at (,., la a irtatawaot bwuad fcsr
tw Comptroller of tha Treasury, Tb raeora) ,W 4MWd t b wtUtut a 9m8gA
l ilia bjMory tM w ay oUwr coutry. Mw Terk ' i-vOTeTa v ttlM.
tM, or Mf Mftt! JN-Wlvaala, Mn,MM If twr Mt; Mm . H
.... .
U-BOATDIDNftT
WARN MARINA,
SURVIVORS SAY
...I.-.
Five Citizens of U. S;
Victims of U-Boat
Attack
NO MOVE UNTIL ALL
FACTS ARE AT HAND
Wilson Believes Germany,
Has Kept Pledges on
Undersea Warfare .
WASHINGTON WATCHING
Fire Americans Missing
in Attack on the Marina
BROWN, JOSH, Roanoke, Va.
BROWN, ', Charlotte, N. C.
HOUSE, , Norfolk, Va.
SEDBURY, GEORGE, Fayetteville;
N. C.
THOMAS,
Del.
DANIEL, Wilmington,
WASHINGTON, Nor. I-Ambassador
von Bcrnstorff this afternoon sent
a wireless message to the German
Foreign Office asking for full infor
mation immediately on the sinking of
the Marina.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 1. Secretary
of State Lansing today vigorously de
nied that the campaign would .have
any effect on the department's action
in the Marina case or that there had
been any change in the submarine pol
icy of cither the President or the department-Mr.
Lansing said he made this state
ment after it was called to his attention
that such a suggestion had been made.
CORK, Nov. 1. Depositions from fifteen
American survivors, saying that the steam
ship Marina was torpedoed' without warn
ing with probable loss of several American
lives, are being taken hero by United States
Cpnsul. Jrost and will be" forwarded to tho
State Department at Washington,
The' Americans arrived hero with fifteen
other survivors of the Marina's crew Ther
reported that from three to sir Americans,
Including one passenger, probably wera
drowned.
The Marina was attacked early Saturday
while hound from Glasgow to Baltimore. A
torpedo struck her amidships, starboard
ride. The explosion blew a great hole In
the steamship's Bide and seemed to lift her
out of the water, survivors' said. She rolled
over on one aide as she settled, but remain
ed afloat twenty minutes, battered by tha
waves, until her boilers exploded, splitting
her in two.
Captain Drown was the last man to leave
the ship. He jumped Just, before the boilers
exploded, but missed the boats and was
drowned.
Some of the survivors say a second tor
pedo was fired as the Marina was settling.
Others say a second submarine was nearby
but took no part in the attack.
One .of the Marina's boats was rolled
against the .steamship's side by tha heavy
seas and crushed. All the occupants wera
drowned. The other boats drifted for
eighteen hours before rescue steamships
sighted them. The survivors suffered ter
ribly on account of the cold and wera
drenched by spray from great waves that
threatened to capsize their boats at any
moment.
LONDON, Nov. 1. Five Americans are
missing and believed to have perished in
the sinking of the British steamship Marina,
according to the latest dispatches receive
here today.
They nre: J
Daniel Thomas, Wilmington, DeL
Josh Brown, Roanoke, Va.
Brown. Charlotte, N. C
George Sedbury. Fayettevtlle, N, C,
House, Norfolk, Va,
The United States Consul at Qoeena
town has talan the Joint affidavits' of twenty-eight
Americans landed at Berehayen
and fourteen landed at Crookliaveiy djctar
lnir that the Marina was attacked wltiwttt
warning.
The twenty-eight American survivors
were landed at Dublin, They are:
Kendall, St, Paul: Blayney and Cullan,
Philadelphia; Anderson, Oklahoma; Kria,
Springfield, Mass.; Lancaster, Yonkara;
Hlley, Brooklyn; Rogers, Ocean Vlar;
Wentr, Wyoming; Foley, Salem, Maa,;
Clark, Chicago; Boblnaon, North Bajtrniat ;
Bang. Charlotte; Schearer, "WashlagtM;
Hancock, Barton and Clarke, RlchmeaMlS
Janes, Ryan, Sinclair, Kngley, Hamlin, Watt
ley. Haskey, Hines and Hunt, all of Jgiaikt
more; Devlin, Norfolk, and fyver Lan
caster. -.
A
.!VjmsM,M
stiifti
&
U-BOAT ISSUE BEC0MBS GRAVE,
WASHINGTON OFFICIAM AfT
WASHINGTON. pov.aWshjSk'AMtiw,
loans bellaved to ba .dead . W reset, at'
tha sinkings tha SrIUaii staaweUa TlftTfr
and, ho 44eiee, yet ta'abaV'thet ibe 0m
mas auhraariae 'TeatteaaaM Joe tlaS ataatieaf
eaa teens ,j aatajajsaj a ana jr arfp Pvj
iJilfclllllaal aVNalMlfraf Oat iaWftiBSat fee Ma. '
a a WJ w F-a. " T "W - ' n u pagpp
ea-tiwaly grava OamtW naa aggtg
tfce affair, feile tha United MtaJea 4
"amfl" aa4 ennatifar rawsaaatatfvaa
the rm new keen utet w ;
oawa u
1
' i
m
1 J
,s-aa
irmj
w
