tin
WEATHER
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Oct. 25, 27.25.
Arizona Wednesday
and Thursday general
ly fair, no change In
temperature.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 19. NO. 125.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, NOVEMBER 1, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
SIX AI
G
AI
10
n
S 111
i
WAS
German Subsea Trader
RESERVE ACT
Since Its Passage Banking Re
sources Have Increased Six
and Half Billion Dollars in
America.
RECORD DECLARED
WITHOUT PARALLEL
Arizona's Business Gain Highest
in United States Money Is
More Evenly Distributed
. West Gains 31 Percent.
By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, Oct 31. The
growth of the country's banking
resources since passage of the
federal reserve act is put at six
and one half billion dollars, in a
statement issued today , by the
comptroller Jt the treasury. The
record is declared to be without
a parallel.
. The 'figures cover the period from
July, 1913, a few months before the
act was passed, to July, 1916, includ
ing nearly all of the first two years
of the European war. '
Whole Nation Thriving
"This stupendous increase in bank
ing assets,' says the statement, "has
accomplished the unprecedented
quickening which amounted in many 1
cases to an outburst of business act
ivity in every state and in practically
every part of every state. Coinclden
tally there has been a marked reduc
tion in interest charges."
West Resources Jumping
The Increase in resources, it is de
clared, is greater than the total re
sources of all the country's national j
banks a little more than a decade Rgo.
In New England the three, years' in
crease 21 percent In the "eastern
states 20, in the south 12, in the mid
dle states 32, and in the west 31.
Deposits Also Higher
Deposits since the reserve act went
into, effect have made an unprecedent
ed jump also. Their ptal Increase is
put at six and a quarter billion dol
lars, or 31 percent, nearly as much as
the reserve increase. In New Eng
land it was 23 percent in the east 39,
in the south 18. the middle states 26,
the west 37 and the Pacific states 19.
Loans Billions Greater
Banks and trust companies are lend
ing three and a quarter billion dol
lars more than they were three years
ago, the statement says.
Not Confined To East
Emphasis is laid on a distinct and
growing tendency towards decentra
lization and distribution of "excess
ive reserves heretofore piled up in
eastern cities. This has been espe
cially true during the last few months
In the four and one half months from
May t to September 12, this year, de
posits in New York City decreased
nearly a quarter of a billion dollars,
increasing heavy meanwhile in coun
try banks. Outside of New England
and the eastern states the following
states show a notable resource in
crease: Illinois $363,000,000, or 30 percent;
Ohio $317,000,000. or 22 percent: Cali
fornia $247,000,000, or 20 percent;
Michigan $221,000,000, or 37 percent;
Minnesota, $198,000,000, or 40 per
cent; Missouri $116,000,000, or 14 per
cent; Iowa $107,000,000, or 17 per
cent; Wisconsin 88,000,000, or 21 per
cent; Nebraska $78,000,000, or 28 per
cent; Indiana $69,000,000. or 13 per
cent; Oklahoma $68,000,000, .or 41
neroent: Kansas $63,000,000, or 24
lAlfCC II C
?IHILU U. U.
BILLIONS
RICHER
percent: Texas $60,000,000, or 12 per- mination as to whether the plaintiff statement which he characterized as and may have been what Mr. Brecken-1 eign relations have been resit with by i bind so long as he did not de
cent: Virginia $52,000,000, or 21 per- na(j made 0t a ca8e according to his j untrue, that there was such a post- ridge had in mind when talking to Dr. : this administration. This question of sert her.
cent: North Dakota $47,000,000, or 24 own gtatement M It." At that time script, was not mine, but was made by Bailey, and Mr. Jeffreys about the the arbitration proposition does not in The influence of the law on
percent: Colorado $42,000,000, or 23 jnr- Hughes was not a member or the Mr. Breckenridge, a former assistant postscript which was rejected without the least alter the essential fact that.' divorce records was shown In the
percent: South Dakota and Montana j court, it was pointed out, although he secretary of war, according to the having been referred to the cabinet the 'strict accountability' note meant fact that only nine applications
$37,000,000 or 33 percent each. was a member when the case came up evidence of two Independent witnesses and it may also have t:een the reason nothing, sb Mr. Bryan declared to the ftr divorce this year have been
The total resources increase in the
south was $302,000,000, middle states, I
(Contlnued on Page S)
1
U-53 REACHES GERMANY.
BERLIN. Oct. 31. (Via L'Jn-
don) The German submarine
U-53 has returned safely to a Ger-
man nrt nrpordine: to the official
announcement
' ; The German submarine U-53,
under command of Lieutenant
Captain Hans Rose, arrived at
Newport, R. I., from Wilhelms
haven October 7, and departed
after a visit of three hours. In
the course of the next day the
U-53 sank five ships off the At
lantic c'oast
Various reports have been cur
rent regarding the submarine
and It was uncertain whether
the craft was returning to Ger-
many or had remained on this
side of the Atlantic. There were
rumors tbat she had been sunk.
A search by American warships
for a German secret base alone
the New England coast for sup-
plying submarines proved fruit-
less, according to naval officers.
.
RULE OF REASON
IS
OF
His Plank Is "True American
ism, All for the People and
' AH for Honor" He Tells In
' dianans Yesterday.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
EVANSVILLE. Oct 31. Charles
E. Hughes today defined to audiences
in Indiana the platform on which he
is running as follows:
"Let us be true Americans, serving
the welfare of the entire people con-
serving the American honor, conserv
ing American property, building up
the opportunities of labor and count
ing as our priceless heritage the fact
that we do not do things by rule of
armies or strength, but by the rule of
reason, in a community fair minded
and intent on justice. That is my
platform, fellow citizens. If you want
my services, take me on that basis."
Mr. Hughes faced the fourth audi
ence of the day here. He had spoken
previously at Columbus, Bedford an.l
Washington to many who had come
for miles to hear him. They applaud
ed him frequently. At Columbus an
Washington he faced hecklers, the
first saying that he was "an admirer".
This man interrupted Mr. Hughes' ad
dress to ask whether the nominee, if
elected, would favor or oppose placing
an embargo on munition shipments
and warning Americans not to travel
on merchant vessels of the belligerent
nations.
"I am in favor of the maintenance
of any right including the right of
travel and the right of shipment," Mr.
Hughes replied. The nominee added
that he thought it very important that i
America should "vindicate neutral
rights and maintain the integrity of
international law" and tbat it was a
"very thoughtless policy that would
surrender any of those important
rights because of any sentimental ad
ministration." "When these crises arise," Mr.
Hughes continued, "we are trustees,
really guardians of our future. We
may ourselves though Heaven forbid
be involved in difficulties when
these rights are of the utmost import
ance. We should have the right to
buy. We must maintain the right to
buy. In the absence of a merchant
marine such as we should have, we
have the need of utilizing the facilities
of travel and we must protect Ameri
can citizens in every right with re
spect fc life, property, and commerce,
as to all nations."
While Mr. Hughes was speaking at
Washington a man shouted:
"What about the Danbury Hatters'
case?"
The nominee outlined the history of
the case, reciting that it first came
hefnra th BiinroTri nnrt fa otap. .
the second time.
"The questions of fact were not be-
(Continued on Page Four) j
M MM
Deutschland Reaches
- r
tiiAiinrn rtiiinl
ENTERS N E W
LONDON AT
MIDNIGHT
" 1 i
Sailed From Bremen October to
on Uneventful Trip Across the
Atlantic, With Captain Koe
nig in Charge. '
i BRINGS CARGO' OF
CHEMICALS TO U.
Refutes British Boast That She
Would Never Again Reach
America Entire Crew Com
poses Twenty-five Men.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
NEW LONDON, Conn., Nov 1.
The German submarine Deutsch
land arrived in harbor here early
this morning.
Trip Without Thrills
Captain Koenig said the Deutsch
land left Bremen on October 10
and made the trip here without
special incident. The entire crew
comprises 25 men. The Deutsch
land appeared in the outer harbor .
shortly after midnight and pre I
.- ceeded to the dock of the Eastern"
Forwarding Company.
Brings Chemicals
Captain P. Hinsch of the forward
ing company, accompanied by Dr. R.
E. Black, the health officer, and other
officials, met the submarine on a tug.
The usual quarantine', regulations
were waived and the- Deutschland tied
up at the dock near the North Ger
man Lloyd steamer Willehad.
The Deutschland was said, to have
a cargo of chemicals.
The submersible, under her own
power, slid into a "perkle" that had
been prepared for her at the wharf,
at 2:35 o'clock. The craft's entry In
to the harbor was so silent that only
a few persons were aw'ar "that, she
was there. " ' ' '
Captain Koenig. said that the boat
originally was supposed to leave on
October 1 but she was injured in a
collision and put . back to port, delay
ing her sailing ten days. The clear
ance papers were made out for "Bal
timore or any American Atlantic
port." Until the last three days ex
tremely rough weather was encoun
tered, Captain Koenig said. '
Plans were made to transfer the
crew to the steamer Willehad, which
has been in readiness for some time.
All the men were iny excellent health,
it was said, and in high spirits over
the successful termination of the sec-
ond trans-Atlantic venture.
SVon after the craft was tied up, a
pontoon, carrying a hieh fence, was
(Continued on Page Two.)
Lodge Accepts President's Denial of Postscript
And Apologizes, But Starts Tirade Against Bryan
(By Review Leased Wire)
NORTH ADAMS, Mass., Oct. 31.
The alleged weakening postscript to
the Lusitania note to Germany regard-
ing "strict accountability" was again
referred by Senator Lodge at a politi-
cal meeting here today.
"The President of the United States
has told that there iqasn't any post-
script to the Lusitania note and we are
all bound, of course, I'o accept the fled to by two independents ought pro
President's denial just as he makes it," perly to be laid before the public,
said Senator Lodge. "The President, it will alb be ob
"I need hardly say." he added, "that served, says that the clause proposing
I would not willingly bring an un- arbitration 'was suggested' and that
founded charge against one high or after consideration he rejected it.
low and If misled into doing so I This suggestion rejected by the Presl-
should be quick to retract it. The
President mnkpR one mlHtake. The
both gentlemen of high cbaacter, re-
sponsibility and veracity, and Mr.
Breckenridge was in a position to
THE LAD SMILES AND
HAS 65,000,000 GOOD AMERICAN DOLLARS
The smile on the lad's face may be
accounted for by the fact that he is
the richest boy in the world and has
a fortune of $65,000,000. He is the
son of the late Thomas E. Shevlin,
millionaire yachtsman and financier
and one of the greatest athletes ever
turned out by Yale. The youngster
is a native of Minneapolis, Minn.
COAL FAMINE
Speculators Are Reported Corn
ering Market, and Together
With Other Causes Sends the
Price Kiting.
(By Review Leased Wire)
NEW YORK, Oct. 31. Coincident
with the unprecedented increase in
tbe price of domestic coal to $12.50 a
ton here today, retail merchants noti
fied the public that only conservation
of the supply and limitation of deliv
eries to one ton a customer would
avert a famine. The soaring prices
are due, retailers and wholesalers
aver, to enormous demand of manu
facturing plants, the shortage of un
skilled labor at the mines, the freight
car shortage, the premature consump
tion of the reserve stock and the utili
zation of domestic coal for manufac
turing purposes.
- Experts said tonight speculators
were cornering the market. Prices
will continue to rise, they predicted.
Only 20 percent of the coal produced
(Continued on Page Five.)
know if, as he is represented to have 1
said, he had seen the postscript Bear -
ing in mind the public and hitherto.
controverted fact that Mr. Bryan had
informed the Austro-lluugarian ambas -
sador that the strict accountability
note of May 15 meant nothing, which
fact was at once cabled by the ambas -
sador to Berlin, it seemed to me that
Mr. Breckenridge's statement as test!-1
dent is said by Mr Breckenrldge to i
have hoon enihnillprl In th nrmtarrfnt -
for Mr. Bryan's statement to the
AustrHungarian ambassador that the
note meant nothing.
0 17"
-JR?..1 .. Vj L n 'Art
(Jiy',f , '
i
THREATENING
eoip
U 5. Again
WHY SHOULDN'T HE?
Maycotte, with Troops and Sup-!
plies Reported rapped and
Imprisoned Near Santa Rosa
lia, Chihuahua.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
EL PASO, Oct. 31. Government
agents here received an unconfirmed I
report tonight from Chihuahua City
that a train carrying General Fortu
nato Maycotte, the Carranza com
mander and his command bad been
captured by Villa bandits in Bachina
ba Pass, south of Chihuahua City,
while General Maycotte was proceed
ing south to intercept Villa in the
vicinity of Santa Rosalia. The Villa
troops used artillery which was re
ported to have been captured from
General Ozuna by Villa.
Seven bridges have been destroyed
between Horcasitas and Santa Ro
salia, and on the train service south
the state capital probably suspended
for two weeks, a letter received here
states. This letter which was written
(Continued on Page Five.)
"I would also call your attention to
a statement by Mr. Charles Warren.
'a Republican presidential elector of
New Jersey, who states that he was
1 told by a member of President Wll-',
' sou's official family that the proposi- j
tlon to arbitrate the foss of life of the j
1 Lusitania was to be embodied in aj
.'note to.. Ambassador Gerard and was 1
not tj be a postscript to the strict ae-1
countability note.
"As I have previously pointed out,
the suggestion for a proposition of
arbitration to accompany the 'strict
accountability' note, whether as a post
scriDt or as a seDarate note, and the
methods of its suggestion, and rejec- J
tion only are of interest as throwing
Ifcht nn thA manner In whlrh tour fnr-!
Austro-Hungarian ambassador and as
events since that time have painfully .
demonstrated."
in nil 1 1 nimriinrn
o VILLA WlUrituW ,f,TunllTj
PUDDHMPIPTS luUlJK THOUT
UHllllrillUIJIrt
WILSON TELLS
TO HURRY UP FACTS OB
E TUB
Both England and Germany Are Requested to Speed Up True
Report of Part Their Ships Played in Disaster That Took
American Lives on High Seas, When Both Guaranteed Ameri
can Neutrality.
REPORTS THUS FAR RECEIVED ARE
CONFLICTING IN MANY DETAILS
One Says Ship Was Sunk By Gun Fire and Another Says She Was
Torpedoed Lansing Still Believes Final Report Will Vindi
cate Germans of Violating Promises Made After Sussex Case
Nearly Precipitated War.
(By Review Leased Wire)
LONDON, Oct. 31. Six Americans were killed in the sinking of the
British steamer Marina, according to a telegram received by American
Consul Frost at Queenstown, says the Press Association. The telegram de
clared that 51 Americans had been saved.
The Americans reported killed, the Press Association says, were two
, men named Brown, two named Thomas, and one named MIddleton and one
named Robertson. Men named Miller and Davis, it is added, were injured.
Included 'among the Americans on board the Marina, according to a
list issued October 30 by the United States Shipping Company of New
port News. Va., agents for the vessel, were P. D. Brown, Upperville, Pa.:
J. C. R. Brown,' Washington. D. C:H. B. Middle ton, FrUericksburg. Pa.:
Daniel P. Thomas, and John P. Thomas, both of VIIlitaingun. Del: Andrew
G. Robinson, Baltimore; Edgar Miller, Baltimore; :F. vY Davis. Wake For
est, N. C; and Jack Davis, Roanoke, Va. . v
' All were' classified as horsemen.
' 28 Americans Survive1 ,
t Consul Frost has arranged to take the dsposirSons of 23 American sur
vivors who have proceeded to Dublin. Ttiirty-tour additional survivors.
Including 15" Americans, are expected to arrive at Cork tonight
An Exchange telegram dispstch ' from Skibbereen. where some of th
survivors of the Ma: ?na have arrived, says that tbe steamer was shelled
by two submarines.
WARNING SAY
Reach Land After Thirty Hours
in Small Boats at Sea Say
Two Torpedoes Were Used
to Sink Ship.
(By Review Leased Wire)
DUBLIN, Oct 31. (via London.
Nov. 1.) -The ; British steamer
Marina was torpedoed without
warning, according to a statement
made by American survivors of
the vessel who arrived here to
night front Beashaven.
The survivors, in a statement to the
Associated Press, declared that two
torpedoes were fired at the Marina
and that tbe submarine watched the
boat for half an hour without offering
assistance.
DUBLIN. Oct 31. Twenty eight
American survivors of the steamer
arrived at the Seaman's Home here
! tonight from Beashaven. In the state
njent to the Associated Press they
said:
"We reached safety after more than
thirty hours in a rough sea in open
(Continued on Page Three)
e e
LAZY HUSBANDS PUT
TO WORK IN CHICAGO.
CHICAGO. Oct 31. Two thou-
gand husbands In Chicago who,
a year ago were too tired or too
to work, have gone out and
v got jobs since the passage of the
non-support act by the last legl-
lature. Statistics in the munici-
pal today showed that since
the passage of the act making a
husband liable IV criminal pro-
secution if he failed to support
his wife, there have been 2,000
fewer complaints made than dur-
ng the first three months of the
year 191g. Formerly a wife had
...1 m,. .B,ina( . aMftlaaa tin.
received. A year ago 410 divorces i
came from the domestic court 1
T
. President Takes Hand
'""' "Long branch, n. j, Oct. si.
After receiving unofficial informa
tion that six Americans had lest
their lives by the sinking of the
British ship Marina, President
Wilson communicated with Sec
retary of State Lansing tonight
and directed that all possible '
haste be taken in obtaining the
facts c:ncerning the sinking of
the vessel.
Secretary Lansing informed the
President that in addition to ask
ing the American embassy In Lon
don for information informal in
quiries had been sent to the Ger
man government
' Situation Grave
While It was made clear here that
no action would be taken pending the
conclusion of the facts, it was known
that the situation has grave possibili
ties. Secretary Lansing stated tbat
he was not in possession of sufficient
facts on which to base a judgement
of the case.
When President Wilson left here to
night he gave directions that he be
kept thoroughly in touch with the
situation during his trip to Buffalo
and New York City.
Asks Germany To Explain
"WASHINGTON, Oct. 31.-Germsny
; has been asked to furnish the United
States any information the Imperial
government may have concerning the
sinking of the British steamers Mari
na anil Roman more. The request was
forwarded. It btvame known tonight,
through the American embassy at
Berlin.
.. Friendly Request
The request is informal and Is in
tended in no sflhse si an intimation
that Germany has invaded Internation
al law or the pledges of the German
government to the United States.
While the Marina is the first vessel
on which American lives have been
lost in the war zone since the Sussex,
and all reports so far have shown she
wss attscked without warning, there
was no evident tension over the situ
ation In government circles. Officials
continued optimistic apparently in
the belief that the final accounts
would show that the steamer lost her
Immunity as a merchantman by flight
or by attempting a counter attack. As
to the Rowanmore, which admittedly
sought desperately to escspe. there
seemed to be but one point to clesr
up whether the submarine actually
fired upon boats leaving the ship, as
alleged by survivors.
Details Conflicting
Virtually no information about
either case was given out by the state
department during the day. Secretary
I-ansing who is handling the situa-
tlon personally, declined to say any-
thing further than that his informs-
(Continued on Page 6)
