Arizona State Fair and Exposition, November 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, 1916
THE
ONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNINCJ, NOVEMBER 1, 1910
12 PAGES
.VOL. XXVII., NO. 1GG
PTT1T7
ARIZ
AMlTHFR
CALL ON
TtTTI tTy ffi
HK .IN
7
GERMAN SUB
WITHOUT TROI
TO READY
EVERYTHING IS HEJUli FOR HEIi
PONTOONUSEDftSSCHEEN.ANQ HIHBIEII HniHTERS
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
NEW LONDON, Conn., Nov. 1. The German sub
marine Deutschland arrived in the harbor here early this
morning:.
Captain Koenig said the Dautschland left Bremen on
October 10 and made the trip here without special incident.
The entire crew comprises twenty-five men. The Deutsch
land appeared in the outer harbor shortly after midnight
and proceeded to the dock of the Eastern Forwarding Co.
The submersible, under her own power, slid into a
"pocket" which had been prepared for her at the wharf, at
2:35 o'clock. The craft's entry into the harbor was so si
lent that only a few persons were aware that she was there.
Captain Koenig said that the boat originally was sup
posed to leave on October 1 but she was injured in a colli
sion and put back to port, delaying her sailing ten days.
The clearance papers were made out for "Baltimore or any
Atlantic port."
Until the last three days very rough weather was en
countered, Captain Goenig said.
Captain F. Hinsch of the forwarding company, accom
panied by Dr. R. E. Black, the health officer, and other of
ficials, met the submersible
tine regulations were waived and tne ueutscniand lied up
at the dock near the North German Lloyd steamer
Willehad.
Plans were made to transfer the crew to the steamer
Willehad where quarters have
time.
All the men were m excellent health, it was said, and j
in high spirits over the successful termination of the sec
end trans-Atlantic venture.
Soon after the craft was
s swung into position between the dock and
. ,
nign lence, was swung mio posiuon Deween tne aocK and i
the Willehad. With the company warehouses on one side, i
tViic pnmVi-n'lfin'n cilPftcjcfiillTT Viirloa tVio onVimarino frrim !
view.
The Deutschland first attracted world wide attention
when at almost the same hour in the morning of July 9 she
slipped in the Virginia capes.
Captain Koenig, who brought the vessel into New
London today, also commanded her on her maiden voyage.
Tht vessel reached her dock at Baltimore the following
night. She carried a valuable cargo of dyestuffs. The trip j
constituted a record voyage for a craft of the kind, ap-1
proximately four thousand miles in sixteen days. I
The sub-sea trader started on her return trip August i
1 wit.h a careen nf mriher and sirlrle iinrlorpri tlirniirrVi a nnr. I
. . . . , . ' , 0 .... .-
con of hostile warships watching for her outside the three '
mlla llTVIlf OTlH QWttoH nnfnlir
iiiiiii aim aumu oaicijf
twenty -three days.
IT MAKES BUTE! ATTACK 1
DHDATUPiN ARGUMENT
Reoublican A. P. Leased
CINUNNATI. 't. 31. Asserting
that the people of this country are now
living in a fool'H paradise, and that
"Uu democratic parly is seekini; In Its
argument to induce the people to live
in that fool's paradise until after elec
tion," former President William H.
Taft addressed an outpourlriB of peo
ple here tonight. ,
"The democrats ask yon to continue
them in power because we now have
prosrity," said Mr. Taft. "The
."hfchlcKt analysis of this claim will
show bow utterly unwise the people
Will be if they allow it to have any
effect iiM.n their Judgment In hi lectins j
the party which Is to conduct the af- j
fairs of the nation for the next four i
year.
"D.i tint Instant th:it peace in le-
flared abroad there will be an enor- I
rnous fiillinir off In the great demand j
for our products, with the rpeed of a.
cable dispatch, the (oiiditlons must j
radically change. tirent factories, I
adapted only to the manufacture of i
war muiiit ions, must cease to operate1
ami the wane earners must be thrown j
out of employment until the planls can
lw made over to make peace products, I
and until a new demand for ucli tirod- !
tuts can be created.
"This result can only be Intensified !
by what must ko on in the Huropean J
countries that were before the war our
wire , chief
CROSSES
OUBLE, PROCEEDS
DU
on a tug. The usual quaran-;
been in readiness for some i
tied up, a pontoon, carrying a
x i j a t i -
J
nff l?nvn Ct C
till U1C111CI1 dlLCl d. VUctJC VI
competitors
In production and
HIT petition.
ner than we have
ever nad to meet, will Invade our mar
kets, reduce our profits and reduce
our waKes, unless we prepare to intro
duce a buffer between us and it."
The former president then com
mented on the V'nderwood tariff law;
on the lariie number of unemployed
shortly previous to the Kuropean war,
and concluded with an appeal for the
election of HuKhes and the support of
the republican ticket.
I sale.
Chicago Husbands Forced
To Support Their Wives
Republican A. P. Lea.ed Wire
CHICAGO, Oct. 31. Two thousand
J husbands in Chicago who, a year ago,
! were too tired or too ill to work, have
I gone out and got jobs since the passage
j of the non-support act by the last ley
! Mature. Htutisllcs In the municipal
(court today showed that since the pass
age of the act. making a husband liable
to criminal prosecution If he failed to
support his wife, there have been 30U0
OCEAN
KING PLACE
-
U-53 RETURNS SAFELY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I 1SKK1.IN. (via l-oiidon) Nov. 1
! The Herman submarine l.'-ijii has
! returned safely to a German port,
J according to the official amiutince-
' IlK'Ilt.
The Cerman submarine l'-r,3, un-
dcr command of I, unite riant Cap
i tain Hans arrived at New
port. It. 1., from Wilhelmshavcn
'October 7 and departed utter a
1 visit of three lioiirs. In the course
of lh' neyt day tin- l'-'i3 sank
' five ships off the American coast,
i Various reports liave been cur
1 rent rcxardii.g the submarine ami
' It was uncertain whe-her tin craft
was reluming to On many or hail
I remained tin thin side of the At
lantic. There wire rumors that
j die hail been .sunk. A search by
Ameriran worships for a Unman
secret has along the New England
coa:il for supplying Mihtnarmes
proved fruitless, according to naval
officers.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YOKK. Oct. SI - Sixteen of the
nir.eteen mernhers of the resolution
committee of the first progressive par
ty convention which framed the plat
form on which Theodore l.oostevelt
was nominated for the presidency in
I'.ili, endoised a statement issued here
Ight hy the democratic national
nunittee commending (tie "legislative
ictivities of president Wilson." i:ievcn
of the number signed the statement
which olso urged the recletion of the
president.
Those who signed the statement
were: John M. I'arker of Louisiana,
i view " i.reMirlent ml eimdlila I e on the
pr - sem progressive ticket: f..rirt.r
isia
it Wyoming, on.' r th v-n k'vt-
i nurs who canit mil for K(MHVf,t In
i XK12;' JudKe AlUrt I. Norton, of Mi-
oun, ana nunti r. m.iHhtt, or win- ,
UHivH icir i niifo ruin's fttMuiiur mm
governor in their state,.: Frank n.
",'t
Idaho: Arthur (i. W'ray. of Niluaska:
('larence It. Strouse, of Virginia, and
.1. V. Met ormick. of Texan. Those
who, It In announced, endorned the
statement were: William Allen White,
of KanKaB; Geoifc-e H. Hynson. of Iwln
ware; Andrew .1. Stone, of West Vir
ginia: Wm. K. I'alrley, of Aluhama.
and Isaac Newton Stevens, of Colorado.
Mr. Stevens for Hughes
riKXVKlt. Oct. 31 Isaac N. Stevens
tonleht announced that he would Hend
the followiiiK teleram to the fiilillclty
department of the republican national
committee:
"Ah a member of the resolutions
committee of thp progressive national
commitee. of 1912. I signed a statement
eivluK credit to the present adminis
tration for enactinK many of Its planks
into laws. I never endorsed the present
administration otherwise, and I nm
supporting, and intend vi.uhk for Mr.
tlUKUCS.
White' Denial
KANSAS CITY. Oct. 31. William
Allen White, nf Kmporia, Kas.. denied
tonight In a long distance telephone
conversation, according to a local news
paper, that he had endorsed the state
ment given out y former progressive
party leaders In New York, In which
the "legislative achievements" of
President Wilson were commended.
"The report that I endorsed such a
statement is untrue," Mr. White was
quoted as saying. "I'lease make it
clear that the statement was shown to
me and that 1 absolutely refused to
sign it."
ITALIAN MINISTER RESIGNS
Republican A. P. Leased WlreJ
ROME, (via l'aris). Oct. 31. Tomas
so Tittoni, amba.isador to France, has
resigned. The government. In accept
ing his resignation, proposed that the
king nominate him as minister of state
in appreciation of his services in the
embassy at l'aris.
Signor Tittoni had been long absent
from his post because of Illness.
fewer complaints made than during the
first ten months of the year 11
Formerly a wife httd no redress against
a shiftless husband, so long as lie did
not desert her.
The influence of the law on divorce
records was shown in the fact that only
nine applications for divorce this year
have been from persons who formerly
had aired their troubles In the court, of
domestic relations. A year ago 410
divorces came from the domestic court.
. oi i n ei s. I
CIFIN FAKE
'DIED ABOFININ'
..... i
I'or lie kept us out of war, boys, he'll always keep us
out.
. Slnmtln? the cry of watchful waiting,
'Neath our Huk of snowy white, we will be too proud
to tiht.
Shouting the cry of watchful waiting.
nit tin s.
The t'nlon forever, hurrah, boy, liiirrnUI .
I town wiili the Kolilier, u with he pin,
For lie kept us out of war. boys, rally mice again.
Shouting tie cry of watchful waiting.
warn '
ASOUT AFFAIR
DFTREIlAj
I
I
Rcrublicsn A. P. Leated Wire
WASHINGTON, (let Jl. -i lenn.uiv
has laen asked to fiirn sh the I inted
States any information the impir'al
Kovrrument nrnv hivi- cnceriilnt: ihe!
slnMiiK by submarines of the P.ritih!
steamers .Marina and Kuw.innioie. The!
request was forwarded, it became
known tonight, through the American
embaf-sy at llerlm.
It is understood the state depart
ment took this step without waiting
for full reports from British sources
and survivors of the ships. Itecause 11
was considered desirable to assemble
at the eiriilest possible moment coin-
Piete information, nartieu'afiv reward
ing the Marina, on which several! by .Mr. t!re-k,mridge, a former assistant
American horse tenders apparently lost j secretary of war, according to the tvi
thelr lives. The request is Informal I dence of two independen witnesses,
and Is Intended in no m-tise as an In- I 'M'th gentlemen of htgn character, re
taliation tlmt (Jerman submarines have I "1 sibility and veracity, and Mr.
violated international law or the I Hreckinridge was in a position to know.
pledge of the tierman government to
the I'nited States.
There was no evident tension over
the case today In government circles.
Officials continued optimistic, appar
ently in the belief that Ihe final ac
counts would show that the steamer
lost her immunity as a merchantman
by flight or by attempting a counter
attack. As to the Kowanmore, which
admittedly sought desperately lo es
cape, there seemed to be but one point
to clear up whether the sulimarine
actually fired upon boats leaving the
ship, as alleged hy survivors.
Virtually n information about either
caso was given out hy tne slate de
partment during the day. Keixetary
Lansing, who Is handling the situation
personally, declined to say anything
further than that, his Information is
Incomplete; that reports had come
from lyondon during the day, and that
the affidavits of survivors would be
(Coritlnuei on Pace Eight)
Republicans Will
Control Congress
At Next Session
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Oct. 31. A repub
lican maturity in the next house of at
least 27 Ih predicted In a statement Is
sued here tonight by Representative
Woods of Iowa, chairman of the repub
lican congressional campaign com
mittee. Air. Woods also declares
Hughes will be elected by a "satisfac
tory majority." and that the repub
licans have better than hii even chance
of controlling the senate.
"These figures are not a mere
guess," says the statement. "They
constitute a summary of the final re
sirts made to this Committee to dale
hy hundreds of careful, experienced
workers, who sent their Information
not with the Idea of making as flatter
ing a report as possible, but In order
to Kive the exact situation In their
respective communities on the eve of
election.
"I am confident of the soundness of
my information, aiid therefore say that
there Is a practical certainty of the
election of Mr. Hughes ami a repub
lican house and better than u fifty
fifty prospect of republican control of
the senate,"
THE BATTLE CRY OF THE NEW FREEDOM
(With Apologies to George Frederick Root.)
'nnvriKht: irtlt;: hv J'.hn T Mc"nt:heon.l
-mca(a !miy Tnbuu
When the sword Is at our throat, he will write a littlo
note,
Shouting the cry of watchful waiting.
For lie kept us out of war, boys, lie kept us out of war.
Shouting the cry of watchful waiting.
Let your hearts with rapture burst as we sing of
safety first.
Shouting the cry of watchful wBlting,
When the hated foreign foes walk arouud upon our
toes.
We'll shout the cry of watchful waltlne.
Whatever May Have Occurred
Says Lodge, Was In Accord
With Events Already Known
I Republican A. P. Leased Wirt j
N")KTM AIlA.MS, Slass.. Oct. 31. '
The alleged weakening postscript to
tin- Liisitauia note to licrnwoy regard
ing "strict a countability" was acain
referred to l,y Senator l-'sie ut a po
litical meeting here tonight.
"The president of the 'nited States
has denied that there was any post
script to the I.usitania note and we are
all bound, of course, to accept the
president s denial just as he makes it."
said Senator IHlwe.
"I nc.-d I ardly say." he added, "that
I would not willingly bring an un
founded charge auainst any one hii;h
or low and if misled Into doing so I
should be quick to retract It. The
president makes one mistake. The
Ktatcmcnt which he characterizes u.s
untrue, that there was such a post
script, was not mine, but was made
If, as be Is reported to have said, lie
had seen the postscript. Hearing in
mind the public and hitherto uncon
troverted fact that Mr. I'.ryan had In
formed the Austro-Hungarlan ambas
sador that the "strict accountability"
note of May 15 meant nothing, which
fact was ut once cabled bv the am
bassador to 'Herlin. ft seemed to me !
that Mr. llreckinridge's statement as
testified to by two indpendents ought
proierly to be laid before the public.
"The president, It will also be ob
served. S114S that the clause proposing
nrhitration 'was suncested' and that
after consideration he rejected it. This
suggestion rejected by the president
covered. the exact proposition said by
Mr. lireckinridge to have been em
bodied in the postscript, and may have
been what Mr. Ureckinridge had in
mind when talking to Dr. Mailey and
Mr. Jeffreys about the postscript which
was rejected without having been re
ferred to the cabinet, and it may also
have been the reason for Mr. Bryan's
statement to the Austro-Hungarian
ambassador that the note meant
nol hing.
"1 would also call your attention to
a statement by Mr. Charles Warren, a.
republican presidential elector of New
Jersey, who states that he was told
by a member of 'resident Wilson's
official family that the proposition to
arbitrate the loss of life on the l.uis
tania was to be embodied in a note to
Ambassador (lerard and was not to be
a postscript to the 'strict accountabil
ity' note, whether as a postscript or us
a separate note, and the methods of
ils suggestion, consideration and re-
Virginia Closes Saloons
Drastic Law Noiv in Force
Reoublican A. P. Leased Wire
ItlCHMoND, Va., Oct. 31. Virginia,
the eighteenth state to ban the wile of
intoxicating beverages, closed all
saloons at midnight tonight, complet
ing a dry area in the south reaching
from W'ashingtaon to Jacksonville, to
the east, and from Washington to New
Orleans to the west.
Although a large part of the old do
minion had been voted dry in local
option, the new state law closed more
than 801) saloons.
The law is one of the most drastic
ever passed by a state legislature. No
beverage, except cider, can be sold that
Jeetion are only of interest as throwing
light on the manner in which our for
eign relations have been dealt with
by this administration. This question
of the arbitration proiaisition does not
in the hast alter the essential fact
that- the "strict accountability' note
meant nothing, as Mr. liryan declared
to tlie Austro-llungarian ambassador
and as events since that time have
painfully demonstrated."
N. Y. MESSENGERS
GO OUT ON STRIKE
Rcpubiican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW Yi'KK. Oct. 31. Several hun
dred messenger boys employed by tile
telegraph companies here went on
strike today for what they describe-' i
as "better working conditions." Tin y
want shorter hours and higher pay
among other things. j
.Messenger service in some parts of;
the city was crippled. Organizers . fj
the Messenger Ho s' union declared to
night that hy tomorrow every boy in j
both the Western Tnion and i'ostal
Telegraph companies' employ would be
on strike. The companies predicted
the messengers soon would return to
work.
CONTINENTAL RAILROAD
Republican A. P. Leased Wlrel
HoUHKAl'X. France, Oct. 31. With
the ol.ject of promoting the economic
relations between the entente allies af
ter the .war, the city council of Bor
deaux has announced itself in favor
of plans now- being perfected for a di
rect railroad between Bordeaux and
Odessa. Kussia. The line would pass
through Lyons. France. Turin and
Milan. Italy. Triest and Belgrade.
D
WES HAW
THREATENS IK OKLAHOMA MIS
Republican A. P. Leased WireJ
KANSAS CITY, Oct. 31. I'rospect
of a general strike tomorrow in the
( iklahoma coal fields was regarded
with apprehension here tonight in view
of the reported scarcity of fuel in oth
er parts of the country. Much of the
coal used in the southwest comes from
the mines in Oklahoma, several of
which already have shut down nnd
more than US per cent of which are
shows a trace of alcohol and possession
of more than one gallon of whiskey,
one gallon of wine, or three gallons of
beer would be allowed as prima facie
evidence of intent to violate the law.
Vast quantities of liquor have been
stored in some private homes.
Along with tlie prohibition measure
and to insure its enforcement the legis
lature passed a bill which provides
that ousting proceedings may be
brought against state or municipal au
thorities who show a laxity in putting
it or any other measure into effect. In
addition, a commission was provided
to see that the law was observed.
HUGHES DEFINES
PLATFORM UPON
UGH HE m
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EVANSVILLK, Oct. 31. Charles E.
Hughes tonight told an audience in tb
school stadium here of the policies he
intends to follow if elected president.
.Mr. Hughes declared that he would,
to begin, select the ablest cabinet the
country -could afford, would protect
American rights, with respect to life,
property and commerce, throughout
the world, would exert all powers of
reason in Investigating grievances,
would endeavor to safeguard American
enterprise through a protective tariff
and would give the United States a
"straight business government, im
partial, fair, efficient."
The nominee declared that he be
lieved In the "leadership of the execu
tive" in shaping legislation and thought
it his duty "so far as he can by his
recommendation and his powerful in
fluence," to promote the passage of
beneficient laws. After saying he
would select an able cabinet, he re
ferred to a "litle word of pleasantry"
from the "spokesman of the opposing
party, saying in effect that members
of tlie republican cabinets could not
lie called to mind."
"I want to say in answer to that
suggestion," Mr. Hughes declared, "that
the cabinet of this administration nev
er w ill be forgotten."
Mr. Hughes was due to speak at S
o'clock but did not reach .the stadium
till after 9 and began his speech at
i:30. A torchlight procession that was
4a minutes in passing detained him.
The nominee rode to the stadium be
tween cheering crowds. During his
address he was frequently halted by
salvos of cheering.
The meeting was in the open air
and the nominee did not speak long,
for his voice was frayed by the day's
exert ions.
Mr. Hughes' speech of tonight
marked the end of his first day's cam
paign of his two days' tour of the
state. It was a day of crowds ar.d
noisy welcomes.
"tioing through Indiana." be told the
audience here tonight, "X have met the
most hearty greeting and lo me it is
a prophesy and an assurance that we
are going steadily forward to victory
on the seventh of November.
"We cannot say just how- we will
find things next March but we can
state the principles by which we shall
be guided,'' iie said. "If I am elected
president as I expect to be, 1 shall be
guided by the principles of business
administration in our great depart-
( merits of government,
j "We are living in a time which is
I full of opportunities for the American
' people aud also full of grave dangers.
J It is no time to be contented with
j legislative phrase-making without ref
I erence to the power of the statutes
that are enacted to accomplish the pur
poses for which they are designed. We
must have in this land more thorough-going,
more true and explicit
legislation if we are to accomplish the,
purposes which we have in view.
"The executive is the nation's honor.
He is entrusted with our diplomatic
instrumentalities. He is the man who
represents the country in all its deal
ing with foreign nations. It is today
of the utmost importance that we have
a proper expression of the rights of
American citizens and the dignity of
American citizenship: and I desire, and
if I am elected, I propose so far as in
me lies, to see that the right of Amer
ican citizens with respect to life,
property and commerce are safe
guarded throughout the world.
"That is not a policy that leads to
war. What a travesty it is to say that
a policy that forfeits self respect, or
does not represent America with the
courage and indomitable spirit that our
country has, is a policy which will bo
to our lasting peace and security.
"1 do not want to be president of a
decadent people. The American people
are not decadent. They have the same
spirit which won and preserved our
liberties. All that is necessary is to
give a true expression to the spirit of
American life, and that expression will
conserve America's peace because it
will present us to the world as a nation
(Continued on Page Two)
affected by the strike order recently
issued because of an unsettled dispute
between operators and union miners
oven the biennial wage contract. The
strike order was made effective No
vember 1. Only a limited supply of
coal was reported tonight to bo avail
able in any of the larger cities of this
section. In case of a cold wave and
the consequent drain on the fuel on
hand, dealers said much suffering
would result.
Prices, so far, according to retail
dealers, have made no substantial ad
vance, but increases were predicted
soon.
In Dallas, Texas, tomorrow the new
scale to the user will bo J S.r.tt a Ion
for domestic coal instead of $S. The
city has only a week's supply on hand,
dealers reported, because of the ear
shortage.
In Wichita, Kas., a coal famine with
in two weeks was predicted if weather
conditions become severe before there,
was a chance to replenish the supply.
COLUMBUS. O.. Oct. 31. Coal op
erators tonight predicted the retail
price of bituminous coal would reach
fill per ton In Ohio In the near fu
ture, if the present demand and the
shortage of coal cars in the state serv
ice continues. Jobbers were selling at
from iS to 17.50 per ton as a result.
Slack is being sold in the mine run
class at J5 per ton.
