Weekly Journal-
Miner
PIONEER PAPER OF ARIZONA
PRESCOTT JOURNAL-MINER, WEDNESDAY MORNING, NOVEMBER 1, 1916.
FIFTY-THIRD YEAR
Federal Prisoner Saws
His Way Out Of Jail;
$500 Reward Is Offered
Mexican Cuts Bars While The Chorus Sings; Partial List
Of Crimes The Perpetrators Of Which Have Never
Been Captured By The Sheriff's Office.
(From Tuesday's Daily.)
Mattas Torres, a Federal prisoner, supposed to be in the county jail, is at large, having made his
escape early last Saturday morning. It was the most cunning and daring jail break that has occurred in
Yavapai in many years. Although every effort has been made to keep the matter quiet by the sheriff's
office, the news leaked out yesterday. The supervisors met yesterday and offered a reward of $500 for
the apprehension of Torres.
The scheme worked to effect his escape by Torres was the time-worn but effective one of using a
saw to cut the bars of his cell. He not only showed cunning in that respect, but remarkable ingenuity
as well. Although it must have taken a long time to accomplish his purpose, he was aided and abetted
by a number of circumstances. The prisoners had organized a jail chorus and nightly broke forth into song.
Under cover of this melody, or noise, Torres sawed away undisturbed and evidently without fear of dis
covery. Sheriff Young has been busy at the recorder's office for some time past at night securing a list
of the registered voters of the county, while Under Sheriff Marks, who is a telegrapher by occupation,
does extra train dispatching work for the Santa Fe every now and then at night.
The sawed bars were apparently concealed during the daytime with a blanket, one being found by
the officer discovering Torres absence, near the window through which the jail bird had flown.
It is thought probable he placed the blanket over the window on the pretense that he wished to keep
out the light, although, it is said, no one in jail remembers having seen it there.
Torres, once out of his cell, found himself in the place called the "tank" and from there he had to
saw his way through the roof. That accomplished he had no particular difficulty in reaching the
ground and safety, a pile of dirt from the court house excavation, being handy for him to jump upon.
It is said that Torres was traced as far as Fort Whipple and at that point all trace of him was
lost As far as known there is at present no clue to his whereabouts.
Early in April of this year Torres was arrested for breaking into a Santa Fe box car and at the
September term of the Federal court in this city was convicted and sentenced to a term of seven years.
United States Marshal Joe Dillon was here yesterday, presumably to aid in the search for his escaped
prisoner.
AMERICANS
ON BOATS
SUNK BY
GERMANY
for "spotters" or detectives to do the
work the people pay it to do.
In June of this year Geo. D. Casey
and Sam Wren were shot down and
man by the name of Fred Marshall,
Although several months have
elapsed the murderer has not been
captured.
It has not been many months since
the bank at Camp Vcrdc was broken
Up to the Voters.
The people of this county should
look the matter squarely in the face
and decide whether ornot thcy arc
getting the efficiency and service to
which they arc entitled from the
sheriff's office. A man should be re
tained in office or dismissed by the
people solely on his record. Is Joe
Young entitled to re-election? Ex-
illlllli; 11LU1U LIUM.Ii 1111111- . ,111 .1 .
... ,. ,. , , into and robbed, yet the perpetrators
credit for everything to which he is f ., . , .... . .
, ... ,, 'of the deed arc still at large.
entitled and then form a decision. He
receives $333.33 a month from the ! Two mcn wcrc arrtcd. it may be
county treasury, and with the salaries ! f tatcd' ,n t,,c Vcrdc va,,c' for al,cScd
of his deputies running into the thou-horsc stealing, but wcrc d.sm.sscd at
sands of dollars, what return has hc!thc,r P"1""'" examination.
g;vcns I Then followed the hold-up of a
.Many crimes have occurred in Yav-crowd f "c" the store at Hcnri
apai county the past two years and I ctta b tw handits. Xo trace of them
practically none of the criminals have I Ilas yet been found by the sheriff or
been caught. True a few bootleggers ''is deputies.
have been arrested and convicted, but Xcar Mayer last week a man was
to secure this result the sheriff's office t shot and robbed. The person guilty
was forced to send to Los Angeles of this crime is still at large and the
chances arc he is not worrying any
.over being caught.
Several warehouses have been
broken into lately, mining machinery
lulled in cold-blcorl-ar-IIiimbuidt by :VjiaF been despoiled of its coppcrfit
tings, yet so far as known, neither
Sheriff Young nor his deputies, has
been successful in running any of the
guilty parties to earth.
The Torres escape is not the only
one to the credit of the present sher
iff's office. Last Saturday, Deputy
Sheriff Roy Young took a man to
Crown King for preliminary hearing
on a charge of burglarizing a house.
The prisoner was placed in a box car
but when the officer went for his
captive the next morning, he, too,
was gone.
The above incidents form only a
part of Joe Young's record as sheriff
of Yavapai county. It is only ope
page of the record, but should be
sufficient to convince the voters that
a change of administration is badly
needed.
LODGE RACKS UP W A R
HIS PREVIOUS
STATEMENT
QUOTES ANOTHER LETTER
CONCERNING ELIMINA
TING POSTSCRIPT FROM
LUSITANIA NOTE.
By Associated Press.
FITCH BURG, Mass., Oct 30.
Senator Lodge in a campaign speech
here tonight read a letter from John
Temple to Lloyd Jeffries, of Boston,
in which the writer stated that Henry
Brcckcnridgc, former assistant secre
tary of war, several times made to
him remarks similar to those attribut
ed to him by Dr. Charles H. Bailc,
of Tufts college, concerning the al
leged elimination by President Wil
son of a weakening postscript, from
the "strict accountability" note to
Germany. Lodge said he presented
the Jeffries letter "as additional infor
mation to that in the Bailey letter
made public Saturday night.
Wilson Says "Untrue."
LOXG BRAXCH, Oct 30. The
president characterized tonight as
"untrue" the statement of Senator
Lodge that the president seriously
considered adding a weakening post
script to the German note.
Bryan Denies.
OMAHA, Oct 30. Bryan denied
WILL BE
FOUGHT OUT
TO THE END
DENBURG SAYS SITUA
TION NOW GOOD AND
WILL BE IN FUTURE.
FIELD MARSHAL VON HIN-
By Associated Press.
BERLIX, Oct 30. Field Marshal
Von Hindcnburg described the pres
ent war situation for an Austrian cor
respondent by saying is is as "good
as possible and all will be well also
in the future."
Regarding the duration of the
struggle he said: "Wc will fight the
war to a final decision." He denied
that he had any intention of shorten
ing the western front and said it will
"stand as firm as a rock." Although
they may gain a little terrain "by
gigantic use of artillery, our enemies
will never break through. To do this
they will ha-e to attack for 30 years,
provided tncy had cnougli mcn."
Say Conditions Are
Normal In Mexico
By Associated Press.
ATLAXTIC CITY, Oct. 30. A
Carranza representative presented a
statement to Americans of the joint
commission saying that normal social
and industrial conditions arc being
rapidly restored throughout Mexico
in response to the Americans' request
for reasons for believing the Carran
za government is growing stronger.
He also presented a telegram from
the Mexican minister of foreign af
fairs saying the government troops in
Chihuahua arc sufficient to overcome
any Villista force. He denied that
Mexico City is being evacuated.
SHARP COMPETITION
SILVER
XEW YORK, Oct. 30. Silver 67H
cents.
there was any truth in the story that
a weakening postscript to the Lusi
tania note had been written and the
letter withdrawn.
PHILADELPHIA, Oct. 30. J.
Frank Hanly, Prohibitionist candidate
told Pcnnsylvanians that survivors of
the European war will give the Unit
ed States sharp competition in the
business world and to meet this Am
erica should become sober.
Another Crisis
Caused by Action
Of Its Submarines
ADMINISTRATION W O R
RIED OVER SITUATION
WHICH HAS ARISEN BY
THE TORPEDOING OF 2
BRITISH STEAMERS.
WASHIXGTOX, Oct. 30 The
State department is unable to
night to form an opinion wheth
er there has been any violation of
neutral rights or the pledge Ger
many gave the United States,
owing to the incomplete reports
on the sinking of the British
steamers Marina and Rowanmorc,
partly manned by Americans, by
German submarines.
Lansing admitted that the re
ports appeared more serious than
the usual routine dispatches an
nouncing the destruction of bel
ligerent merchantmen. The Ma
rina case appears at present the
gravest situation that has arisen
since the sinking of the Sussex,
which brought the United States
and Germany near a break.
Consul Frost, at Quccnstown,
cabled that the Marina was a
"horse transport with a mixed
crew of British and Americans."
He reported it was sunk unwarn
ed by a German submarine's gun
fire west of Cape Clear. Seventy
of the crew arc missing. He said
the information was purely "pro
visional." The American agents
of the Marina and its owners
claimed the vessel was not a
transport hut a regular freighter
which entitled her to all immuni
ties of any other belligerent-owned
merchantman. Because it is
admitted that the Rowanmorc at
tempted to escape little import
ance is attached 'to her case.
Wilson Silent
LOXG BRAXCH, Oct. 30.
The president directed the State
department that he be supplied
with all details when informed of
the sinking of the Marina. He
would make no statement pending
the receipt of full details.
Hunt Dines at A
Restaurant Under
Ban of the Union
Ji 5 O
BISBEE, Oct 30. Early in J
FAIRBANKS' MOTHER DEAD
IXDIAXAPOLIS, Oct. 30. Mrs
Mary Fairbanks, mother of the Re
publican candidate for vice-president,
Charles W. Fairbanks, died suddenly
tonight
APPLY FOR CITIZENSHIP
Paul Vojnick, Frank Krznarich and
Frank Urbanac, of Jerome, and Roko
Anic, of Humboldt, made application
for admission to citizenship in the
Superior court yesterday. The ex
amination will be held in the Superior
court February 9, 1917.
the campaign, much was made
by his opponent over the fact
that Tom Campbell ate a plate
of hot cakes and drank a cup
of coffee in a picketed Bisbee
restaurant run by Billy Truax,
a friend of 20 years' standing.
It now develops that not
only Governor Hunt, Mr.
Campbell's opponent, but also
Henry Ashurst and Carl Hay
den while in Bisbee took most
of their meals at the Copper
Queen dining room which was
declared unfair by the Warren
District Trades Council along
with Bill Truax.
The Copper Queen hotel
does not employ union waiters
is still on the unfair list, the
fact is well known in Bisbee
and was known to Hunt, Hay
den and Ashurst, but they evi
dently thought no mention
would be made of it because
the Copper Queen dining room
is not picketed.
Hunt avoids picketed rest
aurants for political reasons
and not out of sympathy for
the unions and has no hesi
tancy in eating in unfair places
as long as there is no danger
of getting caught
Tremendous Ovation Is
Given Tom Campbell In
Prescott, His Home City
People From AH Over County Gather To Pay Tribute To
Yavapai's Favorite Son; Explains Issues Of The State
Campaign In Clear And Convincing Manner.
(From Tuesday's Daily.)
All Prescott and every nearby town and mining camp joined in welcoming Tom Campbell at the
Elk's theatre last night. The packed house represented as many Democrats as Republicans, and a very
large part of the Democrats wore the glittering little metal "camel" in their coat lapels.
It was Tom Campbell's crowd all the time. There was warm applause for Hughes and Roose
velt in the moving pictures, which opened the program. But it was Tom Campbell's appearance on the
screen that started the crowd to tumultuous cheering.
Chairman Robert E. Morrison presided felicitously. His references to the great national prob
lems were listened to with interest and applauded intelligently. His references to Governor Hughes
were warmly received. But it was when he spoke of Tom Campbell that the audience rose to him.
People were standing at the theatre doors waiting for them to be opened before 7 o'clock. By
half past seven when the band moved to the theatre, the house was full up stairs and down. "The
"Standing Room Only" sign was in request by 7:40 o'clock.
And still the crowd thronged in. They packed the boxes and filled the side aisles. By the time
the Hughes and Roosevelt moving picture films had been run, the auditorium was packed to the outer
doors and scores had left because they could not even find a good place to stand up.
The various State candidates were accorded a close and attentive hearing. The man who made
the greatest hit was J. L. Gust, the candidate for attorney general, who told the audience convincingly
of the high regard in which Mr. Campbell was held in Gust's home county, Maricopa, and assured his
auditors that although Maricopa was ordinarily Democratic, yet this year it would pile up a majority
for Campbell that alone would be almost, if not quite, sufficient to elect him.
When the chairman presented Mr. (jampDell, it was quite a time before he could make himself
heard. Then a hush fell on the house and the men and women listened breathlessly to every earnest
word of his convincing address.
When he arose to speak, Campbell's eyes were dimmed with tears. He was compelled to stand
silently while the audience rose to its feet and rendered such an ovation as has never been bestowed
upon a speaker in Prescott
Campbell's Address. I done for you, but what they have done
"Words fail me to tell you how 1 I to you.
appreciate tins tribute tonight, JIns county s taxes arc $450,000.
Campbell said, his voice trembling In the records of the last five years I
with emotion. "I do not know-, can find but $S00,000 ,':as been-spent
for public and permanent buildings.
Where did it go? I answer, to pay
needless officials in the State capitol.
"In 1911 Yavapai paid to the State,
whether it was the touching words
of our chairman, or to the looking in
to the faces of the old-timers or those
of the vountr fellows with whom I !
went to school, that I am so over
come, and if ever I could speak, it has
now gone iroin me.
He plunged into his address in a
convincing manner that dispelled all
doubt of his sincerity, charging the
State administration with extrava
gance, incompetency and misjudg-mcnt
"I charge them with extravagance
and I know because I always talk
from records," Campbell said. "The
cost of the government has increased
300 per cent in the past five years.
The Democrats will admit that this is
true but say, look what wc have done
for you. I answer not what they have
$103,000. It received for State roads
$28,000. It was then a territory. In
1916 over $230,000 was paid the State.
Only $22,000 found its way into the
State highway fund.
"The State was been broke since
July 1 of this year and warrants sent
expenditures during the last five
years. I am here to say that I believe
a few of them would be greatly dis
appointed after I returned the first
report." - r - 'Sr
He went further into his accusa
tion of extravagance and mentioned
the various departments, their expen
ditures and his idea of cutting down
the expenses." In managing the State
Industrial school he said he would
sec that there were more teachers and
less guards. "Personal observation
has disclosed the fact that there arc
25 employes of the school and the ex
penses reach $1,8S0 a month. There
to the capitol are received, approved jarc thrcc or four tcaci,crSf n guard3
out not paiu anu 111c noiacr anowcu and lcss than 100 pupis
5 per cent until the money is col-1 w . ... A, , .
Icctctl Tcmpc, and Northern An-
, , , ... . zona Xormal schools the conditions
I am often asked how would I , . , , 0l .
... . , , , . I arc the same, he said. At the State
remedy this. I would advocate, or , ,
.ujiiuii u, aiaiu inai liuii. ail. mm.
rather demand, that the budget plan j
be adopted. Every one of the various j
departments would be required to
make out an itemized account of all 1
or four guards to every innatc. He
provoked a roar of laughter when he
(Continued on Page Six.)
Popular Prescott
Couple Married
Miss Marian Bickford and Hugh
Street wcrc united in marriage yes
terday aftcinoon at the home of the
bride, only a few close friends being
present, Rev. Joel Hcdgpcth officiat
ing with the ring ceremony. Later
they left for the coast on a honey
moon trip for a few weeks. The bride
s a very attractive young lady and is
social favorite. The groom is a
railway postal clerk, and in addition
to his capability enjoys a large num
ber of friends in this community.
They will make Prescott their home.
HUGHES ANSWERS WILSON
COLUMBUS, O., Oct. 30. Charles
. Hughes replied to President Wil
son's speech on Saturday at Shadow
Lawn. He referred to the occasion
as a little tcstivai ot scii-gioriuca-
tion" among "our opponents" at
LA
WBJCOMESTRENCHES ARE
CANDIDATE FOR ! RETAKEN BY
1
SENATOR
GERMAN
HIS PRESENTATION OF
ISSUES OF CAMPAIGN
WINS HIM MANY SUP-!
PORTERS IN SOUTH. I
FRENCH AND BRITISH
ADVANCE LINES NORTH
OF SOMME; DEFEAT OF
RUSSIANS REPORTED.
Special to the Journal-Miner.
GLOBE, Oct. 30. Former Gov
crnor J. H. Kibbcy, candidate for !
senator, and a party of other Repub
lican candidates wcrc greeted by a
packed house at the Martin theatre
last night when one of the final rallies
The Germans recaptured their form
er trenches north of Lc Maisonette
j and in the region of Biachcs from the
which "they celebrated their birth and of the campaign was held. The can
freedom and described themselves as
generous forces of the age and world."
He declared the "eulogy needed one
further touch and that was to cele
brate the policy which led to the
slaughter of Americans at Vera Cruz
and at Carrizal."
didatc for senator made a lasting im
pression by his clear conception oi
the needs of the State and nation,
and won many supporters by his calm
consideration of the issues of the
campaign. That the people arc no
longer bound to the party label but
lie characterized the Underwood .arc choosing mcn with real policies is
and Adamson bills as being "in a the opinion of Governor Kibbcy since
whimsical domain of topsy-turvy- lie has toured the State. Judge Kib-
v I
& 1 dom."
He declared his opponents arc bey's undoubted force and keen per
a "little out of their reckoning" in
claiming "business has been relieved
because of the nervous fear of courts"
and that what business really feared
was the "two-faced laws, government
by hold-up and an administration
which treats business men as suspici
ous characters."
ccption of public needs gave him
strong position with the
people of the community and there is
no doubt but that he will receive
strong support here on election day.
Joe V. Prochaska, Gila county's
j French. The French and British ad
jvanccd their lines north of the Somme.
The Russians were defeated in an
attempt to break the Teuton line in
West Pustonyty and Volhynia, ac
cording to Berlin.
Berlin reports the failure of an En
tente attack near the Ccrna river in
Scrbix
The British inflicted considerable
casualties in a raid on Bulgar-Gcrman
positions on the Dorian front
Allies Resume Offensive.
PETROGRAD, Oct. 30. The Rus
sian, Serbian and Rumanian forces
have resumed the offensive in the Do
brudja region, according to an Odessa
a ! correspondent
thinking
tcr D. Moore, candidate for county
attorney, who presided at the meet
ing. Mr. Prochaska spoke briefly but
with force and pledged to the people
candidate for secretary of State, was! of the State a business-like adminis
thc first speaker introduced by Wal-1 tration of the office if he is elected.
