u»
1
VOLUME XXXVII.
PLEA FOR WILSON
BY NOTED GERMAN
ADOLF FALBISANER EXPLAINS
WHY HE IS OPPOSED TO
HUGHES
ST. PAUL EDITOR ADDRESSES
LARGE AUDIENCE AT THE
ARMORY
A good sixed audience listened at
tentively to a stirring appeal to German
American citizens of Brown county to
cast their votes for Woodrow Wilson
for President, by Adolph Falbisaner of
St. Paul, at the Armory, Wednesday
evening. The speaker is one of the
best known German-Americans in the
state, and his address was so plain and
convincing that it had a telling effect
upon his audience.
Music was furnished by the Ex
Regiment Band, and several patriotic
numbers were played on the street and
at the Armory both before and follow
ing the speech.
Mr. Falbisaner was editor of the St.
Paul Volkszeitung for many years. He
is a former member of the faculty of the
University of Minnesota, and an honor
ary member of the German Pedagogi-
Society of Minnesota. He was a
elegate to the International Germanic
Congress at St. Loius in 1904.
In his appeal for the repudiation of
Hughes and his Rooseveltian policies,
Mr. Falbisaner said, in part:
Gave the Reason.
"Yes, it is true that the officers of the
Minnesota branch of the German
American alliance decided to request
the members to vote for Mr. Hughes
But the officers failed to give any reason
for their decision, while there are reasons
to believe that the rank and file of the
^.^German-Americans are not willing to
plfease a few Republican politicians by
sacrificing the foremost prmdiptes'of his
alliance and surrendering to their worst
enemies.
"The rank and file stand ior the eight
hour principle, for the emancipation of
children from industrial oppression, for
laws preventing the abuse of injunctions
they are in favor of the income tax by
which the burden of taxation is shifted
to those who are best able to say, and
th#y also favor a tax on war munitions.
"The rank and file endorse the fed
eral reserve act insuring the nation
against financial panics, and our Ger
man farmers appreciate the rural credit
law, which enables them to borrow
money at reasonable terms directly from
their Uncle Sam.
"The rank and file are mindful of
the statement of candidate Hughes ex
pressed by him in his speech at Mil
waukee on Sept. 20, that all these mea
sures enacted by the Democratic con-
gress must be undone,' which means
that Mr. Hughes wants to have all these
laws repealed, which the rank and file
of our people favor.
"The rank and file are not wiling to
assist in electing as presidenc a man who,
as he himself (.Hughes) publicly an
nounced, is in complete accord with
Mr. Roosevelt.
"The rank and fi'e understand the
significance attached to the conference
which Mr. Hughes had shortly after his
^jiominacion with Mr. John D. Rotham,
3^ editor of the Providence Journal,
""^known to be the mouthpiece of the
British ambassador at Washington.
Not for Teddy.
"The rank and file are 'not yet' ready
to join Teddy Roosevelt and those Re
publican leaders who urged war against
Germany.
"The rank and file are anxious to avoid
the possibility of having appointed as
prime minister in the president's cabinet
a man like Roosevelt, who in his letter
endorsing the candidacy of Mr. Hughes
'singled out the German-Americans, that
type represented in the German-Ameri
^-^ran alliance and similar alliances
who are wearing the badge of moral
treason to this republic'
"The rank and file are convinced that
they were not meant when President
Wilson referred to 'a minority, a very
small minority, of illoyal citizens.'
"The rank and file are willing to agree
with Germany's former colonial secre
tary, Dr. Dernburg, when he approves
of the course taken by President Wilson
in the Lusitania controversy: 'The
-nbmarine question had first to be settled
i^ause this act was not a question of
Replaceable wares or financial losses,
of the lives of American citizens.
The differences with Great Britain, there
fore, were postponed until a way, had
been cleared through Germany's wise
(Continued on page 2)
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
SHORTEST ON RECORD
Minnesota soldiers now on the Mexican
border will be permitted to cast their
votes next Tuesday. The legislature in
extraordinary session last Saturday,
passed the necessary measure. The
house was in session five hours and thirty
two minutes, while it required the senate
six hours and two minutes to complete
its work.
Besides adopting the law enfranchising
the boys to vote, an appropriation of
$11,000 was authorized. It cost $8,000
for the special session and the other
$3,000 will be used in conducting the
election in Texas.
The services of six commissioners will
be required to take the vote. They will
go to Texas for that purpose. The
Secretary of State's office will be repre
sented by Assistant Secretary James A.
Larson. The Governor has appointed
the following five commissioners to act
with Mr. Larson as a board of election
inspectors:
For the First Regiment, A. P. Erickson,
auditor of Hennepin county for the
Second, Dr. J. H. Dorsey of Glencoe
for the Third, Roger M. Weaver of
Duluth for the First Field Artillery,
Col. George C. Lambert of St. Paul as
an additional commissioner, Judge Loren
Cray of Mankato.
Judge Cray acted in a similar capacity
at an election during the Civil War.
The law as passed contained but few
amendments, as drawn by the Attorney
General's office.
The commissioners will leave the state
capital tonight for the border.
The result of votes polled on the border
will not be known for at least a week
after the election, as each will be en
closed in an envelope with only the city
and precinct number in which the voter
lives, and will not be opened until after
it reaches the auditor of the county in
which the voter lives.
The votes will be turned over to the
commissioners after they have been cast,
and will be brought to the office of the
Secretary of State, who will send them
to the proper county auditor.
In districts that are close the result of
the election may not be known until the
soldiers' votes have been received and
counted.
A REAL SURE-ENUF STRIKE IN
NEW ULM.
Six of the eight journeymen barbers
in New Ulm went on strike Monday
morning, demanding an increase of $2
a week in pay. Some of the master
barbers granted the demand and their
men returned to work, while the others
refused. The men were receiving $14
a week and 50 per cent of their chair
receipts, above $22 a week. They
asked the $16 and the usual commission.
This was the third strike that New
Ulm has ever enjoyed. One was at the
Eagle Mills and the other the stone
quarry. Both occurred several years
ago, and were so quiet that few people
here knew anything about them. Another
strike occurred here during the building
of the high school when the workmen
refused to continue unless allowed their
lunch hour in mid-forenoon.
STOLEN CAR IS RECOVERED.
While St. Paul Saturday Deputy
Sheriff H. F. Jahnke learned from the
St. Paul police that the Ford car taken
trom the three men arrested there
accused of the Comfrey store robbery,
and now confined in Jie Brown county
jail, was stolen from Erie, a small town
in Northwestern Illinois, had been
idenlified by the owner and returned to
him.
The car, it is claimed, was stolen on the
night of August 28, and a new license
taken ouc at the State Capitol in St.
Paul, on September 5, just a week
following the theft.
The license was issued to a man giving
the name of W. A. Anderson, who said
his residence was in Wisconsin. Al
though the St. Paul police are not certain,
they say they believe the alleged Ander
son was James Burnes, one of the men in
jail here.
SOLDIERS PUBLISH PAPER
A copy of the Border Patrol, a weekly
paper published by the soldiers at Camp
Llano Grande, Texas, has been received
at the Review office from Capt. B.
Groebner, Second Minnesota Infantry.
The paper consists of four pages, six
columns to the page, and is well filled
with camp news and a reasonable a
mount of advertising. Although a
liberal amount of space is devoted to
the doings of the Minnesota soldiers in
camp, none of the New Ulm boys are
mentioned in the copy received, which
is dated October 21. The Border
Patrol has been in existence about two
months.
RURAL SCHOOLS IN
NICOLLET VISITED
STATE EDUCATIONAL BOARD IS
MAKING WIDE SURVEY OF
CONDITIONS.
LOCAL MEN AID IN SOLVING
PROBLEM IN ADJOINING
COUNTY.
County School Superintendent R. B.
Kennedy and Prof. H. C. Hess, superin
tendent of the New Ulm schools, made
a two days' trip visiting the rural schools
in four townships of Nicollet county last
week. They were designated by the
State Board of Education to assist in an
investigation of twenty counties as to
the rural school conditions, reports of
which will be used in determining the
needs of the schools and as a guide to
legislation to be sought at the coming
session of the state legislature. The
investigation of the twenty counties
which was made last week required the
services of the members of the faculties
of the several normal schools in the state,
the members of the board of education,
superintendents of some of the city
schools and the county superintendents.
Similar action was taken in twenty
different counties last year, and it is
expected that it will continue until every
rural school in the state has thus been
officially visited.
Nicollet County Schools Visited.
The schools visited by Superintendent
Kennedy and Prof. Hess included those
in the townships of Lafayette, New
Sweden, Brighton and Bernadotte.
Discussing conditions in the various
districts, Prof. Hess said there was very
little sentiment expressed by those with
whom they came in contact for the
consolidated system. The reason was
that most of the school^ are well equipped
as one-room rural schools go, and the
patrons ieel they will -bp called or* for
heavy additional expenses, and their
present equipment rendered useless.
During their trip they visited one
consolidated district, No. 43, in La
fayette township.
"They have in that district," said
Prof. Hess, "a good two room building
with two teachers, in which are taught
the eight grades, each teacher having
four grades under her charge, and it
can't help but be admitted they are en
abled to do much more than twice the
efficient work that could be done by three
teachers were the schools separated in
to three one-room schools, each having
only a few students and each teaching
all of the eight grades. ^Spec'alizing in
all lines of work is admitted to be the
order of the present day, and this ap
plies to school teaching, as much or
more than in any other line of work.
No teachei can do such efficient work
while handling eight grades as she can
with only four. That goes without
saying.
Children Are Happy
"We were there when the busses
drove up to take the children to their
homes, and they were the happiest lot
of youngsters one wants to see anywhere.
In that school there are now enrolled
between twenty-five and thiity pupils,
while during the winter months I think
each teacher has some thirty. In many
of the one-room schools that we visited
there weren't more than ten present.
It can be easily understood that the
consolidated school is much cheaper to
maintain."
The investigation committees who
visited the rural schools in the twenty
counties in question last week, will meet
today (Wdenesday) with the State
Board of Education and the State
Superintendent of Schools at the State
Capitol in St. Paul, when the situation
will be discussed and plans outlined for
the future, along the same line of work
to be followed up next year. Supts.
Kennedy and Hess will attend this con
ference and remain in St. Paul for the
state teachers' convention, which opens
Thursday morning and continues until
Saturday afternoon. They will return
home Saturday evening.
WHEAT HAS BEEN HIGHER.
Two dollar wheat isn't so bad, after
all. A Minneapolis man remembers
paying $3.34 for that commodity and
selling the flour that he made from the
wheat, at $14 a barrel. That was in
1864—in Civil War times. He is now
a bookkeeper in Minneapolis, named
William P. Willetts, but was in the
milling business in Indianapolis at that
time. He says: "I have been out of
the miUing business for fifty years, but
when flour struck $10 a barrel here the
other day it reminded me of old times."
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, NOV. 1, 1916.
FIREMEN'S ANNUAL
BANQUET SUCCESS
FIREFIGHTERS ENTERTAIN THE
CITY FATHERS AT THEIR
DINNER.
PROSPECT OF NEW CITY HALL
IS AGAIN DISCUSSED BY THE
COUNCILMEN.
Hopes for a new City Hall were again
expressed at the annual Firemen's
banquet, as they are at every banquet,
which was held at Turner Hall last
Saturday night. Both firemen and City
Fathers present remarked on the needs
of such an improvement and there seemed
to be a well grounded belief that the day
is not far distant when their dreams will
be realized.
Members of the council and city
officers were guests of the New Ulm Fire
Department at the dinner, and as usual
the affair was a decided success. The
dinner, which-was a good one, was served
by the ladies of the New Ulm Turnverein.
Aboqt 100 guests sat down to the dinner.
Fhfe Chief Henry Engel acted as toast
master in his most happy vein. The
principal speakers were Councilmen
Fred Behnke, Wd. Eibner and L. B.
Krook.
Talk About City Hall.
It was the latter who broached the
subject of a City Hall for New Ulm
Mr. Krook said that as a member of the
council he felt that the time was at hand
when the matter should be taken up
and the project of the necessary bonds
submitted to the voters at the earliest
possible moment.
Other speakers echoed the sentiments
of Mr. Krook and plans were freely dis
cussed.
Chief Engel also said he believed the
question could be further discussed and
are H?jxements made whereby the bonds
could be voted on at the city election
next spring.
The councilmen, in their addresses
took occasion to compliment the firemen,
individually and collectively, on the good
record made by the department in all the
years that it has been in existence.
The fire department, which is a purely
volunteer organization ranks with the
best of the kind in the state.
There has long been talk of better and
more up-to-date equipment in fire-fight
ing apparatus, including a motor truck,
and it is fully expected that it will be
foithcoming in the not far distant future.
The program was well rounded out
with a couple of piano solos by Miss
Cecilia Eibner Ed. Stoll sang two songs
and Mrs. John Schapekahm gave several
recitations. All of the numbers were
heartily applauded.
One of First Members Present.
Charles Stoll, one of the four living
members of the original fire company,
organized in 1869, and the only one who
is yet an active member, was present
and gave a short talk to his fellow mem
bers. The three others of the original
members, who are still living, but who
have now dropped out of the organiza
tion are: E. G. Koch, Albert Held and
Frank Grebe.
Several of the present members joined
when the department was reorganized
in 1887 and have been in active service
ever since.
It is at the annual banquets that the
older members can show the younger
chaps how to have a good time and they
keep their end up with the best of them.
It also remarked that none of them take a
back seat when it comes to fighting a
fire, either.
Following the banquet the evening
was given over to dancing and it is a
common remark that the firemen can
dance as well as fight fires and all know
that they are as good as the best of them
at that.
NEW FIRM'S EMPLOYES ARRIVING
L. A. Gaut and family arrived here
Saturday and will hereaitcr be residents
of New Ulm. Mr. Gaut is the shipping
clerk of the New Ulm Grocery Company,
which has completed arrangements to
locate in this city. The new concern
is the-successor to the Nichols, Hicks &
McNairy Company of Sauk Center,
that company discontinuing its Sauk
Center house, but continuing the branch
at Willmar.
R. M. Hicks, manager of the company
is expected to arrive in the city Friday
of this week, and Miss Ama Strand, the
bpok-heeper, will be here later.
Mr. Gaut and family are waiting for
their household goods and will occupy
a residence on South Broadway.
4i/Jvkkifl &&$&*& v«4v A
iJii
FORMER NEW ULM BOY
ACCUSED OF AUTO THEFT
Deputy Sheriff Bert L. Morris of
Waukesha county, Wisconsin, arrived
here Saturday night, and left Sunday
with Charles Wieland, formerly of this
place for Oconomowoc, in that county,
where he is wanted on a charge of
burglary. Wieland had been arrested
earlier in the week by Chief of Police
John Herzog, on information received
from the chief of the Oconomowoc police
department on June 30. A telegram
stated that Wieland was accused of
stealing an automobile.
Chief Herzog had been on the look
out for Wieland since that time, but it
was not until last week that he showed
up. When he appeared in town the
chief spied him and locked him up in the
county jail and notified the Wisconsin
officials. A wire was immediately re
ceived requesting that the prisoner be
held until an officer could reach here.
Wieland refused to return without a
requisition from the governor, which
was secured by Deputy Morris on his
way here.
According to Deputy Morris, Wieland
and a companion are charged with
breaking into a garage last June and
stealing an automobile. It is claimed
they filed a Yale lock in two to make
their entrance. The auto has been re
covered and Wieland's partner arrested
and is also awaiting trial at Waukesha.
Wieland was brought up in New Ulm,
and has several relatives living here, but
it is said that none of them would come
to his rescue, when in the present trouble.
When searched at the jail a key to a
locker at the Northwestern depot was
found in his pocket. In the locker
Wieland's suit case was found, but it
contained only a loaded revolver, a
quantity of working clothes, a bunch of
love letters from various young women,
and a book of sample love-letters.
SOO LINE IS POSSIBLE
BUYER OF M. & ST. L.
Reports current the latter part of last
week that the Minneapolis & St. Louis
Railway is to pass into the hands of
some larger and stronger company, seem
to bear the ear-marks of truth.
Hayden, Stone & Co., and J. S. Bache
& Co., who underwrote the recent finan
cial readjustment of the road have
given an option on all the underwriters'
stock to a Wall Street banking firm,
and this firm has also secured options on
the stock of three of the largest indivi
dual shareholders.
A New York dispatch indicates that
the road is likely to become a part of
the system of the Minneapolis, St. Paul
& Sault Ste. Marie railway, the
Soo Line, a subsidiary of the Canadian
Pacific Railway Company. Other pos
sible buyers, besides .the Soo Line, are
said to be the Milwaukee, Wabash,
Illionis Central and the Canadian
Northern.
The present outstanding stock of the
Minneapolis & St. Louis totals $25,783,
550.
GERMAN LECTURE THURSDAY.
What promises to be something es
pecially good in the way of a lecture is
the one scheduled for Thursday evening
of this week at the high school audi
torium. The speaker will be H. F.
Urban, a German journalist and poet,
and his subject will be "Wit and Humor"
in German Literature. There will be no
charge for admission and all are cordially
invited to attend that the most good
may be given out to the citizens of New
Ulm who rightfully should be very
proud of the excellent literature pro
duced by the German race. The lecture
will begin at 8 o'clock.
INVESTMENT CO. EXAMINED.
The State Bond & Mortgage Company
recently underwent its regular examina
tion by the State Banking Department
and received a clean bill of health. The
State Examiner notified them that his
experts found the finances and invest
ments of the concern in excellent con
dition. The company has prospered
greatly since its founding here.
WANTS NEW CHARTER.
St. James is after a new home rule
charter for that city, and has started
steps toward getting it. Judge Com
stock, in response to a largely signed
petition, last week appointed a commis
sion, consisting of fifteen prominent
citizens of that city to draft the proposed
charter.
Marriage Licenses.
William Schnobrich .. Conttnwood
Martha M. Fisher Searles
Edward A. Schultz
Olga A. Yungerberg
Nicollet Co.
Brown Co.
NUMBER 44
VOTE RETURNS AT
COHHERCIAL CLUB
ARRANGEMENTS MADE TO GET
ELECTION RESULTS NEXT
TUESDAY NIGHT
VOTERS OF NEW ULM INVITED
TO AVAIL THEMSELVES OF
SERVICE
All voters of New Ulm and vicinity
have an opportunity to receive the elec
tion returns on the night of November
7 at the rooms of the New Ulm Com
mercial Club, whether members of that
organization or not.
At a meeting of the club directors
Friday night, arrangements were made
with Manager P. R. Mc Hale, of the
Western Union Telegraph Company,
whereby the returns will be supplied by
messenger immediately upon their re
ceipt at the Western Union office.
All Voters Invited
The directors wish it understood that
not only club members are expected to
take advantage of this service, but all
voters are invited to make the club
rooms their headquarters on that night.
Returns from the national, state and
congressional elections will be received
during the night.
President G. A. Ottomeyer and the
directors, at the meeting, discussed the
fact that there is a misapprehension
among the people of this city as to the
availability of the club rooms for citizens
who are not members. The plan is to
make the club rooms a truly community
center for the business, professional,
and in fact all men of New Ulm. They
are expected to make free use of the
rooms where they meet many strangers
when a quiet conference is desired. It
is not neceassry to be a member to avail
oneself of this privilege. The rooms
are also availabe for small conventions,
or for social or business inter-course.
New Janitor is Engaged
Mrs. White, whose husband had long
been janitor of the club rooms prior to
his recent death, has been engaged to
act in that capacity in the future.
The annual election of the club's
officers and directors will be held on the
evening of Tuesday, November 14.
The commercial club is reported in.
excellent condition, both financially and
socially. Its usefulness to the city is
being demonstrated every day, and it is
the desire of the directors and officers to
make it even more so.
Road Signs Next Spring.
It was decided that the long talked of
signs to be placed on the highways lead
ing to New Ulm, would be prepared
during the winter and placed position
in the early spring. The signs to be of
iron, it being the opinion of those present
that the proposed wooden ones would
not be of sufficient durability, and that
iron ones would be worth much more
than the difference in the cost.
C. A. Stolz, chairman of the good
roads committee, said while figures had
been obtained on road signs that it had
been proposed to place along the high
ways, it had later been decided not to
act too hastily in the matter, but to
erect something better and more sub
stantial than had at first been contem
plated. Therefore the committee had
concluded to wait until spring before
erecting the signs, members of the
committee as well as the directors, be
lieve that a few iron signs erected on
iron standards, would be better and
cheaper in the end than wooden ones
which would soon have to be replaced.
Mr. Stolz also suggested that the com
mittee might take the matter up with
representatives in the surrounding
towns and make the road-marking uni
versal throughout this section.
Other Towns Might Co-Operate.
"If Sleepy Eye, Springfield, Hanska
and Comfrey in this county St. Peter
and other towns in Nicollet county, as*
well as Mankato and other nearby cities
would co-operate with us in the matter,
"said he," we could have signs directing
to all of the places, and then it would
not have a selfish appearance and the
traveling public would Have a great deal
better service than according to our
preliminary plans.
"There is also another proposition
that I have had in mind: Why should
n't the state mark the directions on all
roads? I believe it should do so. I
don't know that there is money avail
able for that purpose, but it would seem
only right that if there is no provision
now for such action one should be made.
Next to good roads there is nothing
mote appreciated by the person travel
ing through the country by either team
or auto, than to find the highways pro
perly and plainly marked."
'M
3
1!
1 .,
"if.
