I
BARRE
VOL. XX NO. 195.
BARRE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1910.
VmCK, ONE CENT, f
HE
DAILY
TIMES
DEUTSCHLAND I
CREW JOYFUL
OVER ARRIVAL
Germany's First Commercial
Submarine of That Name
Tied Up in New London
Harbor This Morning,
Having Brought a Cargo
Chiefly of Chemicals and
Medicines
HAD VERY ROUGH TRIP;
MEN IN GOOD HEALTH
TRIED TO PROVE
THORNTON HAD MONEY
Crew Went Aboard the Ger
man Steamer Willehad,
Which Had Been Waiting
for the Submersible for a
Long Time, and Will Stay
There Till Deutschland
Gets Ready to Leave
New London, Conn., Nov. J. Ger
many's first commercial submarine
Deutschland arrived hi're early this
morning, completing her second voyage
through the warships of Orent Britain
and France on both sides of the Atlantic.
Under command of Captain Paul Koenig,
who was in command during the first
trip, the Deutschland left Jtremen on
Oct. 10 and tied up at the berth pre
pared for her here at 2:35 this morning.
Tin? submarine entered the lower har
bor shortly after midnight and waa met
by a tug bearing Captain F. Hinsch of
tiie Eastern Forwarding company and a
health ollieer. Captain Koenig and his
crew of 23 men were in excellent health
and high spirits over the success of their
second venture. The Deutschland car
ried clearance papers for Baltimore or
any Atlantic port.
The Deutschland had no sooner moored
than she was screened from sight by a
pontoon carrying a high fence. Her crew
went aboard the North German Llovd
liner Willehad, "which had been awaiting
the arrival of the submersible for gome
time, and will be quartered there during
their stay.
Captain Koenig said that except for
unusually rough weather the trip across
the ocean was uneventful. The Deutseh-
land's cargo is said to consist mainly of
chemicals and medicines.
Captain Koenig said he had expected
to leave Bremen on October 1 but the
boat was damaged in a collision and
was forced to put back for repair, which
delayed him several day. All but two
of the crew were with the Deutschland
on it first trip.
The return cargo, consisting mainly of
crude rubber and surgical supplies, val
ued at $300,000, has been ready for sev
eral weeks.
The Dejitschland, it was later an
nounced, nas 750 tons of dyestuffs, medi
cines and chemicals.
In That Way Defense Proposed to Estab
lish That Thornton Did Not Rob
John Collett in Barre Night
of Oct. 20.
In making his argument in Washing'
ton county court this forenoon, J. Ward
Carver, counsel for Wilbur Thornton of
Grantham, X. If., charged with assault
and robbery on John Collett of Harre on
Oct. 20, endeavored to show that the tes
timony disproved the claim made by the
complaining witness that the respondent
did not have any money on the evening
when the alleged robbery is said to have
taken place' and that there had been evi
dence to show that Collett and Thornton
had passed their watches about in a North
Mam etreet saloon.
Two witnesses yesterday testified that
Thornton had purchased cigars while in
Collett's company and had ordered and
paid for steaks in Jack's restaurant be-
fore the -alleged robbeiv. Collett had
previously said on the stand that he had
paid for all the drinks, that Thornton did
not purchased anything and had told him
that he was without funds.
Counsel for the respondent in his arpi
ment tried to convince the jury that both
men were more or less under the influ
ence of liquor, that presumably in the
exchange of watches during the evening
Collett's watch found its way into his
companion's mackinaw pocket and that
the money which was found rightly be
longed to the respondent. He also dwelt
at some length on the different story
told by Collett in Barre city court a
week ago and his tale yesterday in coun
ty court. The case will probably be giv
en the jury during the afternoon.
An information was filed to-day with
the county clerk, charging Arthur Lock-
lin of Northheld with larceny from an
estate and it is probable that the case
will be tried this term. Locklm was nr
rested two weeks ago at Northfield Falls
after he had sold, as administrator of his
father's estate, certain bonds.
GERMANS LOST
FIERCE BATTLE
NEAR SAILLY
Made a Violent Counter-At
tack During Last Night,
but Were Driven Back,
According to the Official
Statement Issued at Paris
FRENCH ADVANCED
NEAR LESBOEUFS
MINOR MATTERS
BEFORE COUNCIL
George W. Mann Wants Permit to Build
House Said to Be Already Started
Improvements on Pros
pect Street.
Affairs of minor account occupied the
attention of the city council at its regu
lar session last evening, the city fathers
adjourning early to participate in the
board of civil authority meeting in the
court room. George W. Mann presented
his compliments to the council and asked
that a permit granting liim the privilege
of erecting three houses on Mann street
be amended to include a fourth homse.
which is now in course of construction, j
His request was referred to the building
inspector and a seem.d request, to-change
the grade on a piece of thoroughfare con
necting Willey and Mann streets was
turned over to the city engineer. Thom
as Blann, sr., was given permission to
move a henhouse and Karl Sawyer wart
awarded damages of "5 cents for a hen
killed by dogs, pie killing having been
reported to Alderman Slmi tlcff.
There was talk of the charity commit
tee's investigation of a landlord's alleged
abuse of a Foss street tenant and Alder
man Rossi, as the spokesman for the ten
ant, thought action should be taken if
the facta warrant. Alderman ShurtlefT
inclined to the belief that the trrand iuror
should 1 allowed to consider the merits
of the complaint and to the end that offi
cial action may be taken if circumstances
will for action, the aggrieved parties and
other principals wi1 be asked to attend
T, - - ., - , I t if nii n-i mii uriui r- tm- 1:1 Mini Jul
raris, Nor. l.-North of the Somme , , - - . , '
last night, French troops advanced inljng.
the neighborhood of Lesbouefs, the war A report from the s'reet committee
ffice announced to-day. German troops recommended that Ixnim Romania' peti-
made attacks at Sailly Saillisel, but were L, ,,,,, fW thtk .:,,,,, ,v ,,,; '
riven nacK alter a violent encounter. westerly from the Prosnect street br dee.
The village of Daraki Azunia in the I is nearing completion and there was com
Struma sector on the Macedonian front Pla,nt w" request ot .Mr. itoman
, . , . - , ,, ..- , is seemed to take precedent over peti-
was capturea .ast n.gnt oy jrmsn , tif)ns that wpre preMntrrt mrier ln the
troops. Keport says they indicted heavy vear. On inquiry, it was said that Mr.
isses on the Unitarian and captured Romania assumed a large proportion of
FEAR STEAMER
DESTROYED
Lifeboat Marked "A. D. Da
vidson" Washed Ashore
off Cornwall
CHIEF CLADDING
NEW PRESIDENT
STATE FIREMEN
On the Macedonian Front,
the British Captured Vil
lage of Darakli Azuma, In
flicted Heavy , Losses on
Bulgarians and Captured
300 Prisoners
SHIP CARRIED AN
. AMERICAN CREW
The Davidson Was American
Lake Steamer Bought
by the French
London, Nov. A Lloyds dispatch
from Newquay, Cornwall, says that a
ship's lifeboat, marked "A. D. Davidson,"
has been washed ashore at Perranporth.
the Davidson sailed from Montreal Oc
tober 4 for Havre.
Montreal, Nov. I. Harbor oflicials say
that the A. D. Davidson carried an
American crew. The vessel was one
of a number of American lake grain car
riers purchased by the French government.
ROWANMORE TRIED
TO MAKE ESCAPE
FROM SUBMARINE
300 prisoners.
LIQUOR STOLEN
FROM LOCKUP
IN BRATTLEBORO
U. S. NAVY EXPERT
TO EXAMINE
DEUTSCHLAND
To Make Certain That No War Equip
ment Was Placed Aboard Since
Her Previous Visit.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 1. The board
of navy experts will probably be direct
ed to inspect the Deutschland and make
certain that no war equipment was
placed aboard during her stay in Ger
many, thus altering her status as a mer
chant carrier, established to the satis
faction of the state department when
she was visiting Baltimore.
Sheriff Mann Went-to Get the Stuff in
Order to Sell It for Benefit of the
State and Uncovered a Real
Sensation.
Brattleboro, Nov. 1. The village com
missioners are concerned over the discov
ery to-day that several gallons of liquor,
constituting about one-half the quanti
ty seized two weeks ago from a Polish
couple who were about to get married,
has disappeared from the village lock
up. The discovery was made when Sher
iff Clifford E. Mann started to carry out
the order of Municipal Judge Barber
to sell the liquor for the benefit of the
state. The containers were still there,
partly filled.
The keys of the lockup are held by the
police, the sheriff and the deputies, with
one key in the fire department for an
emergency. The seizure was made by
the police, so the commissioners consid
er it their duty to investigate, which
Chairman E. W. Gibson says will' bj
done.
FOUR BATTALIONS
WERE ANNIHILATED
Rumanians Claim Victory After Their
Pursuit of Austro-Germans Back
Across Rumanian Frontier.
London, Nov. 1. Autrtro-Germsn
forces have retired from the region of
Campuling in northern Rumania, pur
sued by Rumanians, who have passed
over the frontier in the movement, ac
cording to a despatch from Bucharest,
says a wireless from Rome to-day. Four
lostile battalions were annihilated by
the Rumanians, the report says.
ATTACKS BROKE DOWN
BEFORE TEUTONS
VON BERNSTORFF
SEEKS INFORMATION
SUBMARINE U-53
IN GERMAN PORT
Official Announcement Made in Berlin of
the Return of the War Vessel Which
Made Such Havoc Among Ship
ping in American Waters.
Berlin, via London, Nov. 1. The Ger
man submarine U-53 has returned safe
ly to a German port, according to offi
cial announcement.
The German submarine, in command of
Lieut. -Captain Hans Rose, arrived at
Newport, R. I., from Wilhelmshaven on
Oetolier 7 and departed after a stay
of three hours. In the course of the next
day the U-53 sank five ships off the
American coast.
TWO MEN ARRESTED
He Has Sent Wireless to His Govern
ment Asking for Details of Sinking
of the Marina.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 1. Secretary
Lansing authorized the statement to-day
that tie progress of the political cam
paign will in no way affect the investi
gation of submarine attacks and that
there has been no change in the L'nitsJ
States' policy, Meanwhile, Von Berns-
torff hag wirelessed his government ask
ing that all details available regarding
the Manna be sent him immediately.
Berlin Official Statement Declares That
All Efforts of the Enemy Failed
on All Fronts.
Berlin (by wireless), Nov. 1. An at
tack Jnwde by British troops on the
Somme front in l.he vicinty of Cource
lette last night broke down under Ger
man fire, the war office announced to
day. Vain efforts also were made by
the British to advance from the Guede-court-Lesboeufs
line.
In Galicia southeast of Lemberg
strong efforts were made by the Rus
sians yesterday to re-capture the posi
tions taken by the Austro-Germans on
the Narayuwka river. The Russians
charged four times, says to-day's state
ment but were defeated with heavy
losses.
The war office also announced an im
portant success in Rumania. Austro
German troops penetrated Rumanian po
sitions near the Predeal road, capturing
ten cannon and 17 machine guns.
the expense incurred in laving cement to
his doorvard. The water committee re
ported favorably on Eugene Chatot's re
quest for a water main extension, the re
port stating that the work will cost $35
with a yearly revenue of Mr. Chatot
will dig the ditch and do the backfilling.
The charity committee recommended that
Dr. P. S. Duffy, recently resigned as city
physician, be paid pro rata to Sept. 13.
All three reports were accepted.
Wiring permits were granted the fol
lowing applicants on the favorable re
port of the inspector: Mrs. K. L. Dens
more, lights, HI Beckley street; D. J.
Morse, lights, Tremont street; George
Slora, lights, Ifi Greeu street; George W.
Mann, lights, Willey street; C. C. Mc
Carthy, lights, 105 South Main street;
Marrion & O'Lcarv, stoneshed motor; M.
Villa, lights, 30 Granite street; M. 4 B.
L. & P. Co., 35 meters; Mr. Rowell,
lights, 35 Merchant street. Building per
mits were- granted George Slora for a
two-story piazza on Green street; W. A.
Bradford, for a barn annex on Avers
street; M. Villa, for a wagon shed and
piazza at 3i Granite street and II. D.
Stevens for a horse shed on Smith street,
investigations having been made by the
inspector.
Schools received their share of consid
eration in the weekly assignments ap
proved in a small grist of warrants pre
sented by the clerk. The balance of the
school tax, Ulfl.158.33. went to the school
board along with the balance of the even
ing drawing school tax, $1,773.33. Other
warrants approved for payment were:
Street department payroll. $f!34.8S, street,
state highway, sewer, surface sewer,
bridge and culvert, sidewalk and health
accounts; water department, payroll,
$71.76; fire department payroll. $95.71;
police department payroll, $5)0.80.
But Affidavits of Members of Crew Show
that Submarine Continued to Shell
the Steamer After Latter
Halted.
Barre Men Elected at 27th Annual Con
vention Held in Mont pelier Ban
quet Was Served Last Even
ingAbout 50 Were
Present.
The 27th annual convention of the Ver
mont State Firemen's association was
held yesterday afternoon in the memorial
room of the city hall, Montpelier. witn a
banquet last evening in Eagles' hall. The
attendance failed to reach expectations
but nevertheless the 50 members of the
association present represented widely
scattered sections of the state.
At the business meeting held in the
afternoon 0. A. Nilcs presided, reports
were considered by the association nnd
A. J. Howe of Montpelier, a member of
the Montpelier Volunteer Hose company
67 years ago. spoke briefly of the first
hose wagons in the city.
The following officers were elected for
the year ensuing: President, C. B. Glad
ding of Barre; vice-presidents, O. A.
Hastings, Ludlow, P. H. Gunther, Winoo
ski, Harry Tollerton, Chester, C. A. Bar
ber, Winooski, .lohn H. Donnelly, Ver-
gennes; secretary, J. .Moore,; treas
urer, L. C. Grant, Burlington; executive
committee, W. A. Patt.ee. Montpelier, J
H. Holloran, Winooski, C. I). Stockwell
Burlington, F. H. Guerin, St, Albans, E.
M. Tobin, Barre; statistician, C. F. Rich,
Middleburv: topic committee, If. T.
Holmes, Poultney, George Magoon, Mor
risville. C. A. Nile, Burlington; auditors,
E. F. Nash, Burlington, George T. Kid
der, jr., Midlebury, Henry Belmare, Wi
nooski. C. A. Niles of Burlineton was
the retiring president and with the other
officers not re-elected was given a vote of
thanks. The location and time of the
next convention was left with the execu
tive boa'd.
75 NEW NAMES
ON CHECK LIST
As Result of Two Meetings'
of the Barre Board of
Civil Authority ,
24 NAMES T EN
FB'.. THE LIST
In Last vht's Meeting, the
T'j Ward Had the
Largest Gain "''
INTERESTING FEATURES
London, Tuesday, delayed, Nov. 1.
The British steamer Rowanmore, bound
from Baltimore for Liverpool, was sunk
last week by a submarine. She attempt
ed an escape from the undersea boat,
but the latter continued to shell the siiip
after she stopped, according to affidav
its from members of the crew procured
by the American consul at Liverpool.
Two white Americans were on board.
George Murphy of Brooklyn and Albert
Scssler of Boston.
The affidavits of these men agree that
they saw no shells lircd at the lifeboats
after they were clear of the ship.
RUSSIANS FALL BACK
WELL KNOWN IN ST. J0HNSBURY.
Joseph 0. Drouin Died Yesterday at Son's
Home in Lowell, Mass.
St. Johnsbury, Nov. 1. Joseph O.
Drouin, one of the oldest prominent
French citizens of St. Johnsbury, died
yesterday at the home of his son in Low
ell, M&ss. Mr. Drouin was born in St.
Mary, P. Q., in August, 1847, and came
to St. Johnsbury in 186(5. He was a
shoemaker by trade and was engaged
many years in the shoe and dry goods
business, but also devoted many years to
lumber and real estate interests'. He was
a founder ana past president of St.
Johnsbury council. St. John the Baptist
society, and one of the founders of Notre
Dame Des ictolres church. In IS j 1 he
married Marie Richard of Stanford, P.
Q., who survives him wit j seven children.
Before Superior Teuton Forces South of
Brezny.
Petrograd, via London, Nov. 1. Fierce
battles between Aiwtro-German forces
and Russians are taking place south of
Brezny on the Slata Lipa river in Gali
cia, says the Russian statement to-day.
In the region of Michishou wood supe
rior Teuton forces pressed back, the Rus
sian troops. On the Transylvania fron
tier Austro-German troops have occupied
two Rumanian villages 11 miles south of
Kothenthurm pass, the statement says,
the Rumanians retiring a little to the
south.
ROGERS BEACH.
PLAN SCHOOL CELEBRATION.
1919,
TALK OF TIIE TOWN
On Charge of Wilfully Slaughtering Steer
in Stowe.
Stowe. Nov. 1. Howard Chase and
Archie Hill, wlio were taken to the coun
ty jail, at Hyde Park vesterdav after
several days' detention in the "cooler"
here, were given a hearing before Justice
C. JL Watts Monday afternoon upon a
charge of wilful and malicious killing of
animals. Chase, who is 26 years of age,
and has a family, came eently from
Hyde Park to Stowe Forks to carry on a
lumber job for the C. E. and F. O. Burt
company. Hill, who is 19. accompanied
Chase and was employed by him. It is
claimed that Chase and Hill killed a
steer belonging to the Burls, taking it
from their pasture, salti. the meat and
bringing the hide to market. At the
hearing both men waived examinations!
and each was bound over to count v court I
under ?y0 bonds. Being unsble to e- way to realize a-nice bundle of money for
cure the bond thej were taken to jaiL the f ublic pUvgTouads,
The etage is set for the Squag noller-
Goose Green jollification at Howland hall
this evening and with emissaries of both
contingent on the grounds this afternoon
mueh of the suspense attendant upon the
bringing together of the two factions has
vanished. It is too late for either side
to back down from its vaunted boasts of
superiority. The fun begins at 8 o'clock
with a reception to the Green and Holler
people. A half-hour later dancing will
be in full swing with Josiah Carroll lead
ing his music makers in the center loft.
It should be borne in mind that costume
and not masks form a passport to the
initial number on the dancing program
and that those who are not in costume
will not be permitted to join in until
after the fourth inning. A large number
of advance tickets fcave been sold for the
affair and the Woman's club stands in a
Goddard to Have a Big Time in
Marking Half-Century.
At the closing session of the Goddard
seminary trustees yesterday afternoon
Pres. Charles H. Darling was authorized
to appoint a committee of three to en
tertain plans for the school's half-century
observance in 1013. Judge Darling
did not make his appointment immedi
ately, as he prefers to defer his selection
for a time. Latitude for having ample
time in which to appoint was allowed by
the trustees. The trustees convened at
2 o'clock, after dinner had been serveJ in
alumni hall. Beyond the teps taken to
realize on Prin. Hollister's suggestion re
garding tne 1010 anniversary, no action
was taken at the afternoon session, al
though a number of recommendations
made bv the principal and others were
considered and discussed.
Wedding Yesterday Afternoon at Home
of the Bride.
A"t 2 o'clock yesterday afternoon a
very pretty wedding was solemnized at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. Theodore
Beach, 107 Prospect street, when their
daughter, Delrosa F., was married to
Everett C. Rogers, The ceremony was
performed by Rev. Bert J. Lehigh, pas
tor the First Baptist church, and the
single ring service was used. The house
was tastefully decorated with green ana
the bridal party stood beneath a green
arch. Only a few of the immediate
friends and relatives were present.
Two of the brides nieces. Miss Ada
Patch and Miss Evelyn Howell, acted as
flower girls, while Master Theodore How
ell, the four-year-old nephew of the
bride, very manfully carried the ring.
After light refreshments were served.
the happy young couple left on the 3:25
train for points north. Upon their re
turn, they will take up their residence in
Barre.
The contracting parties are well and
favorably known in the city and have a
wide circle of friends who join in wish
ing tnem mucu nappmess.
Marina Survivors Tell Tale.
Dublin, via London, Nov. 1. The Brit
ish steamship Marina was torpedoed
without warning, according to a state
ment made by American survivors of
the vessl who arrived here last night
from Bearhaven. The survivors declared
that two torpedoes were fired at the Ma
rina and that the submarines watched
the boats containing the survivors for
half an hour without offering assistance
n a statement to the Associated I'res.
Twenty-eight American survivors of
the steamer arrived at the Seaman's
house here laBt night from Bearhaven.
In the statement to the Associated Press
thev said:
"We reached safety after more than
30 hours in a rough sea in an open boat.
Captain Brown was last seen lowering
himself to a raft.
"The Marina, with a cargo of whiskey
from Glasgow to Baltimore, was struck
by a torpedo without warnnig on the
starboard side off Skelligs Rooks at 4:14
o'clock Saturday morning and sank in
a few minutes. A' second torpedo stmek
the port side of the vessel about ten
minutes after the first.
"All Americans aboard were members
of the crew except one, a passenger
named Middleton of Fredericksburg, who
waa drowned, and two stowawavs who
also were drowned.
"The submarine watched our boats for
half an hour and offered no assistance
At Methodist Ladies' Sale, Supper
Served Last Night Program To-night.
The ladies and pastor's union of the
Hcdding Methodist church held their an
nual chicken-pie supper and sale in the
church parlors last evening whim about
301) people were seated around the ta
ble from the beginning of the supper
liour to the close, it proving to be one
of the most successful ever held at the
church. The young hdies of the church
acted as waitresses. A substantial menu
of chicken-pie. mashed potatoes, vege
tables and dessert were in order, every
one at the table seeming to enjoy the
repast. The dining room was trimmed
with a color scheme of red and whito.
WKilo the supper was in progress the
ladies at several booths in tiie upstairs'
parlors were doing a rushing business in
disposing of their wares, the booths en
circling tiie parlor and running into two
of the anto-rooms in the west side of
the church. The room with the booths
was very prettily decorated, showing a
great deal of work by the women of the
hurch i making preparations for the af
fair. There is a color scheme of green,
white, orange and blue, the center of the
room having streamers of crepe paper
reaching from the top of the room to all
corners, and the corner booths each be
ing trimmed with colors that harmonize
very nicely with the streamers that run
to each corner.
lo-mght instead of the cliicken-pie
A total of 75 additions to the checklist,
including a number of young men who
have attained their majority since the
last election as well as many newly nat
uralized citizens have resulted from two
meetings of the board of civil authority,
the last of the sessions having been held
in the court room at city hall last even
ing. Altogether 201 changes have been
made and 24 names have been stricken
from the list because of deaths and re
movals. Therefore, there will be a per
ceptiblo increase in the voting totals on
the checklist to be used at the national
and state elections next Tuesday, al
though the footings have not been com
pleted. Tabulations are being made at
the office of the city clerk and the copy
will be intlif hands of the printer in
time for flection.
Alderman A. M. Rossi presided at thn
meeting and 12 members of the board
were present. An even hundred changes
and additions were made, as against 101
in the aggregate lat week. Of the 100
Insertions made on the list last evening
50 are new names. One week before 25
new names were added to the list. Fol
lows the tabulations for last evening:
Ward 1, 10; ward 2, 16; ward 3, 34; ward
4, 12; ward 5. 11; ward 6, 8. Voters
eligible to exercise the franchise Tuesday
will be considerably more numerous than
the total in 1912, is the deduction of
those who are preparing the checklist.
In March the aggregate showed some
thing of an inerea-so over te preceding
election and the total this fall will be
greater than ever, it is expected.
The usual polling places have been des
ignated in each ward and the ward offi
cers elected last February will serve next
Tuesday. Substitutes who did duty in
the September primaries will not serve if
the appointees originally made are able
to eerve.
HALLOWEEN CELEBRATED.
Various Observances, Some of Them For
mal, But Mostly of Opposite Sort.
Halloween pranks last evening were
more conspicuous for their moderateness
than for any of the expected excess of
youthful exuberance and in very few
instances did the celebrators go beyond
the bounds of reason. There were nu-
supper, there will be a concert program ; merous nauoween restivais ana parties,
with several people taking part in the i and ghosts, elves and all sorts of spooky
evening's entertainment along with the figures had their inning. Children pa
sale that was in order last night. There 'raded many, of the streets and got in
will be readings, music and solos fori some of their best licks in people's back
amusement and a complete change from yards and gardens where condescending
last night. There are booths of nearly , 'grown-ups mayhap purposely left cub-
everv discription, doll booths, crochet bages, turnips aim ouier jiauowecn up-
GERMANY IS QUERIED.
For Information About Sinking of Ma
rina and Rowanmore.
Washington, D. C, Nov. J. Germany
has been asked to furnish the LTnitcd
States any information the imperial gov
ernment may have concerning the sink
ing by submarines of the British steam
ers Marina and Rowanmore. The re
quest was forwarded through the Ani r-
lean embassy at Berlin.
It is understood the state department
took this step without waiting for full
reports from British sources and sur
vivors of the ships because it would be
considered desirable to assemble at the
earliest possible moment complete in
formation, particularly regarding th-v
Marina, on which several American horse I
booths, Christmas carol, fancy work,
candy wares, flowers, infant booth, food
and vegetable counters and booths de
voted to weavers' articles, aprons and ice
cream. The corner booths were attended
by Miss Coralinn Sowden and Eileen
Parks, who were selling dolls and dolls'
desset; the rose bloom, a flower booth
attended by Mrs. C. L. Bugbee, and snow
purtenances loose for the prowlers.
About the worst happening that may be.
charged to the celebrators occurred on
North Main street near the Palace gar
age, where a loose detached cabbage waa
shied at the illuminated globe surmount
ing a gasolene pump. If the aim was
to shatter the globe, then the person who
propelled the cabbage did not miss the
hound, h verv nrettilv decorated booth. ! mark. Over on Brooklyn street some
where ice cream was served was attended j one tossed a hard vegetable through a
hr Mrs Fmorv Vewhnll. Mrs Ernest narlor window in the home of Mrs. Dix-
llouston and Miss Grace Newhall. Other
booths were attended by Mrs. L. D. Mar
tin, who had a nice assortment of croch
et articles: fancy work booth in charge
of Mrs. Raymond Waterman; infant
wear attended by Mrs. Fred Cutts; the
Christmas carol" tabic by Miss Alice
Farnham: the food and vegetable coun
ters by Mrs. Eugene Glysson and Mrs.
Fred Beckley. and the apron and weaver
stands manage,! by Mrs. Farl Batchel-
der and Mrs. Ihomas Lave.
on and the police were askea xo inves
tigate. The little job of destruction boro
the hall marks of boys' work. All in
all, however, there was a preponderance
of wholesome fun and the real michiev
ous mischief makers were much in the
minority.
At the Presbyterian manse on Wel
lington street Rev. and Mrs. Edgar Cross
land entertained the members and for
mer members of the Bible class. Twenty-five
young people joined in the mer-
nial bed room with a bed that has been
tenders apparently lost their lives. The ! hamied down through at least five gener
request is informal, and is intended injafions, with a spread and quilts that
Perhaps one of the most interesting j rymaking and 'an interesting program of
features of the fair's entertainment is j Halloween games was tonoueu oy an m-
the old fashioned bed room in charge of formal rtereopueon entertainment, wuu
Mrs. L. B. Dodge in one of the alcoves , the pastor projecting postcard views ot
of the church parlor. For anyone who ii the Passion Play on a screen that re
st all interested in old furniture and an- j fleeted faithfully some of the scenes
tiques in general, this room is surely j which the host, uimselft saw at , Uberam
well worth inspecting. the room is mergau
planned in a way to appear like a colo-
WON HIGH STANDING.
VERMONT MAN KILLED.
Albert Landry Fell Into Canal at Millers
Falls, Mass.
Millers Falls, Mass., Nov. 1. Albert
Landrv, 41. an employe of the H. P.
Cumings company, contractors, of Ware,
fell from a derick yesterday afternoon
into the canal of the Millers Falls com
pany and was killed. He lived in Wild
er, Vt and is survived by a wife, five
children, a father and two brothers.
Medical Examiner Ir. George 1
Spaulding Students Were Awarded Hon
ors This Morning.
At Spaulding high school assembly this
forenoon Prin. H. H. Juekson announced
the names of the honor students for the
first period of the school year. First
grade honors were awarded to those hav
ing all E (over 00) marks while taking
four regular studies. Six students re
ceived that distinction, as follows: Mar
guerite Currier '17. Klirabetli IjiKlam
'17, Hildreth Martin 'IS, Emma Trent ini
'10, Ralph Daffine '20. Helen Gordon '20.
Second grade honors were awarded to
those having an average of over 00 in
four regular studies. The successful stu
dents were as follows:
CIass of 1917 Josephine Albi'etti,
NJrace Bixbv, Lelia Corti. Vivien Dodge.
Emma Downing, Isobe f;all. My He Gow,
Marion Rickert. Dorothy Parks.
Class of 101S Aliee Downintr. Dori
no sense as an intimation that '.trinan
submarines have violated international
law or the pledges of the German govern
ment to the United States.
While the Marina is the first vessel on
which American lives have been lost in
the war zone since the Sussex, and all
reports go far said she was attacked
without warning, there was no evident
tension over the case to-day in govern
ment circles. Officials continued to "oe
optimistic, apparently in the belief that
final accounts would show that the
steamer lost her immunity as a mer
chantman by flight or by attempting a
counter attack.
A in the Rowanmore, which admit
tedly sought desperately to escape, th
were made over 100 years airo. At the
head of the bed, there arc two old type
m rJId. icrroia music tormeu
an additional feature ot tne evenings
entertainment and at the close refresh
incuts of hot chocolate, wafers, sand
wiches and apples and grapes were
served.
Misses Mary Carleton-and Elsa Ram-
pictures with spruce acorns glued in a age entertained the 'unjuarned spooks,
frame for the pictures. A flax-wheel and ghosts, etc., of the Congregational Phil
flax is another item of interest. the;atbea class at the home of the former
wheel being one used by Mrs. Dodge's jon Highland avenue and an evening full
grandmother over 12.") years ago, while :of fun was enjoyed. Practically the whole
a doll and doll's chair dates back to party were masked and some of the cos-
ient;tumes were works ot art. lhe usual
about the same time. The most anc
i'f all the antiques is a foot stove that
was bought over 1"0 years ago, with
three carpet bags that were in vogue
long ago. Several other articles of as
great an interest are in the collection,
ln the an-umulation of these articles
of antiquity is an old program of a com
munity donation. While this may not
be quite as ancient as s"me of the oth-
seemed to be but one point to clear up ier thing displayed, nevertheless it dates
Halloween games were played and re
freshments ere served. About 23 were
present and if hilarity is a sign of a
good time, then there is no question of
the success of the evening.
Sunday school classes of the First
Presbyterian church gathered in the
basement of the chinch for a masquer
ade party. Mi eostumary effects wer
used nnd' amid a small riot of color tho
whether the submarine actually fin-d back to lSf.0 and might he of interest to! children j ined " program or jiauow-
HHn boats leaving tne Binp, as miegea many of the older pi-ople who may re- ecn games. iHii)imi -ri"'
nrv ui,ri K II,. Tt ..,. . t il, r.a-tinios encMni mm miuic mj
by
ESCAPED LUNATIC CAUGHT.
Archie Whittemore Had Built Hut and
Grubbed for His Living.
Hvde Tark, Nov. 1. Archie Wh'itte-
more, the escaped insane man
have the members of
bie for a social time, and to hold the
community donation to Rev. L. .1. Rob
erts and wife. Mr. U berts be'nu the pas
tor of the church. Tie paper shows
jabout 73 pnp!c on the committee, tii-re
being one tor the social and one for the
donation.
substantial lunch-
The event was to,ot the !-
tl, ..hon-h I, lasses ilisMMllMi d. a
con was M-rveu.
Dancers at a masquerade given in the
fall on Trow hill under tne aus-
grange
made tha
who dis-
Eastman. Eusrene Lorariirer. Esther Me- : appeared from His lather s house at Men
Carthv Vivien Marrion. Marv Shorev. I Mills 10 days ago, was found yesterday W. If. Stubhc. a traveling n pre-enta
Class of 1010 IViris Bradlev, Janet j by George O'Brien in a pasture about; tive for the Mergenthaler Limitype to.
Brock. 1'go Carusi. Belmont Houghton. 1 four miles from his home. He was , was a business vis-tor in Pierre tn-.Ia v.
Marjory Iyve. Helen O'Ki-efe. j asleep in a hut that he had built and) A dozen years e" Mr. Mub! won a
ClaWof 1020 Harold l'.lackmore, Marv'when awakened went home readily. He national competition fur sp,-e.l in s.'tmg
Twitchell of Grenfield viewed the body jCerasoli. Marv GesK Lucy l.uci-hina. Al- had lived on apples, beech nuts and occa- j type on the linotype machine, setnnu
and later it was remove to Turners do poletti. Helen Rosm". iH Spear, simaily secured milk and cream fnra a 'over 12.oX ems an hour for a run of li?
Faila. Lena alii, Iriu aiielti, Lut v Wells. nearby farmer, unbknon to the owner, hours.
nies OI l oouit- urn K'ii.r
must of the opportunities afforded them
for celebrating Ha'ioween. It was one
, i i he largest crowds ever brought to-!gi-ther
in tiie hall, but there was am
pV riHon tor daix ing. even after the bar
,.r i,ercd for those who did not
m.sk. ii'-die' orchestra played for the
.Innce program and refreshment were
-rrved at interm ssion. A larere number
ot pi-ople from ti city made the as
i-cnt of Cobble hill in order to take part
ui ti.e uerrjuakirg.
