and
Citizen
"Pleasure comes through toil
and not by indulgence and indo
lence. Ruskin."
"Go often to the house of thy
friend, for weeds choke up 'the un
used path' Scandinavian Edda,
VOL.
HYDE PAHK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER. 1, 1910,
$1.25 A YEAR
BUSINESS NOTi
For Sals Two Houses in Hydt yil-
uage; alscf, bmall farm. 75 acres. j
i 1 1 . r t i n , m.
' duk 70, nyun raj. c
For Salb. Ladies' Coat, 4a in. long; of
crown piusn. lall at Dome ot
E. B. Sawybr, Hyde Park
For Salb. One Second-hand Remington
typewriter. Price, S15.00.
H. Waiib & Son, Morrisville.
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
Calves, Cheap Cows, Bulls and Hogs.
Tel.124-31 John Miner, Hydb Park.
Found. FoHnd on the streets of Morrisville,
pair of Kimless Eyeglasses, with Automatic
Holder. Owner may have same by applying at the
store of A. R. Campbell. Morrisville.
For Salb. Two pair Work Horses. One
pair 6 years-old, bays, weigh 2500; 1 pair grays,
12 years-old, 2900; both good workers. Also, two
good Farms. See me for bargains.
C. F. Eddy, Stowe.
For Sale. One Pair Mules, 6 and J years,
gentle, with' Harnesses, Wagon, Sled; 1 3-year-old
Mare colt, partly broken; 1 Surry; new pair
Driving Harnesses; 3 Gathering Tubs; ' Sap Sled
and one Power .Bone Cutter, cheap lor cash or
. bankable paper. - R. M. Powers, Johnson,
Wanted. A good Inside Wire Man ; one who
lias had several years experience on all kinds of
work. A Massachusetts journeyman's license
xvill be necessary. Steady position, eight hours a
lay, 45 cents per hour.
Hibbard Electric Company,
29 Cushing Street Fitchburg, Mass.
Averill Alexander has rented bis house
on Ivlmore street to Samuel Morty of
Hyde Park, who has taken charge of the
Morrisville section. Mr. Alexander is
moving bin family to Barre.
MORRISVILLE
All Saints' Day, this.
Miss Barbara Small spentSunday with
friends in Stowe.
Mrs. Fred H. Goodrich was a visitor
in Burlington Satutday.
Erie Morrill finished work in A. W
Waite's grocery Saturday night.
Elmer Smalley, the Republican nominee
for Representative, spends his money at
home. 4
Mr. and Mrs. George F. Earle and A.
G. Small returned from New York last
Saturday morning.
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Carter of Al
bany have been guests this week at the
home of W. M. Johnson.
Josiah Wood of Brooklyn, N. Y., a for
mer Morrisville resident, came Monday
for a few days' visit at his old home, the
Wood farm.
William Johnson, Miss Flora Buswell
and Mrs. Frances Greene and son, Porter,
were guests Sunday of Mrs. Greene's sis
ter, in St. Albans.
Harry and Dorothy Skinner of Swan
ton returned home Monday, after visit
ing over Sunday at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. E A. Smalley.
POLITICAL ADVERTISING
POLITICAL ADVERTISING
r--r--nnnii . .i iimi mi in m mhim ailnwi - 7- i m
Democratic County Ticket
For Senator vote for one
W. D. STRONG, Hyde Park, Vt., Democratic
For Judge of Probate vote for one
NOYES G. WOOD, Hyde Park, Vt Democratic
For Assistant Judges vote for two
E. C. WELLS, Waterville, Vt Democratic
WALTER SABIN, Wolcott, Vt. Democratic
For State's Attorney vote for one
M. B. WHITE, Morristown, Vt Democratic
For Sheriff vote for one
C. E. BURT, Stowe, Vt Democratic
For High Bailiff vote for one
E. H. STONE, Eden, Vt Democratic
11 1 I !'"
A one-third off sale of Cloaks will begin
at the Sacks Bros.' store Saturday.' For
particulars see page 4.
The Universalist ladies will serve a fish
chowder supper at the vestry beginning
at 5:30 tomorrow night.
Wilbur lyes was in court Monday and
sentenced to not leas than three or more
than four months in county jail for fur
nishing liquor.
C, H. Slocum has purchased the resi
dence of Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Fisk on Jer
sey Heights, now occupied by Prin. and
Mrs. J. T. Sears.
Mrs. Allen Phillips will entertain a ten
party of the Universalist church next
week Thursday afternoon, instead of to
morrow, as announced.
There was a large attendance at the
Stafford auction yesterday afternoon, all
of the stock over seventy head being
sold and bringing a good price.
J. R. Freer and family have returned
from a visit in St. Albans, where they
were guests of Mr Freer's brother, R.
H. Freer, making the trip in the Freer
auto.
AT SALEEBY'S
Men and Young Men
Take advantage of these two specials which we are of
fering in Men and Young Men's fall and winter
Suits and Overcoats
At $15 and $19.50
We consider these Suits and Overcoats a remarkable
value ana are hard to duplicate at these prices.
Many models from which you can choose a suit or
overcoat. Every Suit and Overcoat absolutelv new; the
season's latest models, carefully tailored, of high-grade
materials and are
Saleeby's Top Notch Values
at these'prices.
A Word to the Women
Any woman who cannot find just'the style she wants;
the material and color she likes, and the size to fit her in a
suit or a coat, can come right here and she will find the as
sortment from which she can make a good selection and
save a sum of money on her purchase.
We fit the Fat Women
On Suits and Coats, sizes up to 51.
The executive committee of the La
moille Valley Teachers' Association was
held at the Academy building in Morris
ville last Saturday. Arrangements were
made for the county meeting to be held
in Morrisville Nov. 17. A tenntive pro
gram was arranged.
Twenty members of Tucker Chapter,
R. A. M., of this place attended the dis
trict meeting at Hardwick last Thurs
day. The occasion was a very pleasant
one, both as to Chapter work and the
entertainment given by the Hardwick
Chapter. All had a delightful time and
count the Hardwick .brethren as unex
celled when it comes to entertainment of
the fraternal variety.
Miss Grace A. Gates has resigned as
teacher in the commercial department of
Peoples Academy, to accept a position as
teacher of stenography in the Worcester,
Mass., High School. Miss Louise Ketch
um, a graduate of Elmira College, came
Monday to take her place. Miss Gates
went to Worcester Monday, The many
Morrisville friends of Miss Gates will
wish her much success in her new posi
tion. The Ladies' Aid of the M. E. church
will hold a sale in the vestry Tuesday
afternoon, November 7. There will be 7
booths conducted by ladies under 70
years of age. No aefmission charged. In
the evening there will be an entertain
ment commencing at 7 o'clock and 49
minutes. An admission ol 7 cents will
be charged. Every 7th person will be
admitted free. The name of this littl
comedy by 7 young ladies entitled "7
Cups of Chocalate." Ladies are request
ed to bring articles for the sale Monday
if possible.
Walter J. Breen of St. Albans, John F
Hinch and Maurice P. Porter of St
Tohnsbury, also E. H. Olmstead of Mor
risvillc, agents ior the New England Mu
tual Life Insurance Co.. were guests Fri
day of Glenn A. Wilkins, general agent
for that companj. at which time they
met in conference with Mr. Wilkins in re
card to making arrangements for the
camoaien to cet new business. The
month of Oct. 1916 was a record break
er. beinc the largest month for new busi
ness that Mr. Wilkins has ever had and
the past year will go far beyond any
other durine his long service with the
company in the amount f business done
A. J. SALEEBY
THE STORE THAT SAVES YOU MONEY."
JOHNSON, . VERMONT
Archie Whittemore Found
Archie Whittemore, the insane man,
who escaped from the home of his father,
Daniel Whittemore, at Eden Mills, ten
days ago, was found Tuesday afternoon
in a hut in the Bigelow pasture lour miles
from home. He was discovered by Geo.
O'Brien, who found him asleep on a bed
of leaves. He talked rationally with
O'Brien, who in a short time had a posse
of hunters with him. He willingly re
turned home. He was in good health,
having found sustenance in apples, nnd
beechnuts, with now and then a drink
of milk that he surreptitiousy obtained.
The use of a blood hound and clairvoy
ants were enlisted in the search for him,
but without avail, he being found after
they had departed. It was generally
thought that when found he would be
dead from exposure or drowning in the
lake.
FEED SALT !
I will sell Feed Salt in
100UF0H55CTS
Until Further Notice.
E. P. JOSE, Johnson
Election Returns at Bijou
Morrisville people will be given election
returns at the Bijou next Tuesday even
ing. At 8:30 'The Secret of the Sufama
rine will be run for the second time and
after this hour fourteen reels will be run
and no reels repeated. M. P. Maurice
will announce the returns as fast as re
ceived and smoking will be allowed in
the theatre after 9:30. The admission
to the regular show will be 10 cents and
or the election returns 25 cents. A 25c
ticket will admit one to both.
:
Strong on Preparedness
Howard Chase of the west part of
town and Archie Hill of this village are
in Hyde. Park jail awaiting trail at the
December term of County Court. They
were arrested last week on the charge of
having killed and appropriated for fu
ture use a steer belonging to the C. E. &
F. O. Burt . Co. of Stowe. At a hearing
conducted by State's Attorney Maurice
before Judge Watts in Stowe Monday
sufficient evidence was found to warrant
holding the men in $500 bonds each,
which they were unable to furnish. It is
alleged that the men sold the hide of the
animal at Stebbins' market in Stoweand
salted the meat at the home of Ubase,
which is the Teveyaw place at the en
trance to Beaver meadow.
This case brings to mind other losses of
animals, poultry etc., the past few
months. Among the recent cases being a
bull belonging to E. E. Hadley, which
has been missing from the Oleve White
pasture since last week and two heifers
belonging to C. I. Story, which were re
cently lost from a pasture in the west
part of town.
Chaffee Beardsley
Last Thursday afternoon at the home
of Rev. and Mrs. George W, Tabor on
Jrrsey Heights, occurred the marriage of
Miss Mildred Beardsley, daughter of
Mrs. Nettie Beardsley of North Hyde
Park and Roy Leon Chaffee, son of Mr.
and Mrs. Merton R. Chaffee ot the west
part of town. Rev. Mr. Tabor performed
the ceremony.
Last Thursday evening at the groom's
parents in the west part of town, a re
ception was tendered the newly married
couple, which was attended by about
forty neighbors and friends. The even-'
ing was very pleasantly spent with cards,
dancing and various games, refreshments
of ca'te and coffee being served. Mr. and
Mrs. Chaffee were presented with many
nice presents, including glass-ware and
silver. After a lew days' visit with rela
tives in Cambridge and other points Mr.
and Mrs. Chaffee will reside on the old
Chaffee farm, M. R. Chaffee and family J
moving to the Charles Davis place which
they recently purchased.
The contracting parties are well and
favorably known in this vicinity and
have many friends who will join tbtsi
paper in extending congratulations and
best wishes.
New Arrival of
Frames and
Oval F
Bent 01
icture
oss
OWING to the fact that many agents have been canvassing
Morrisville ahd vicinity for enlarged photographs, and
selling their frames and glass at exorbitant prices,
we have secured a stock of the same and are' prepared to
do your framing in this line at a great saving. Our frames and
glass are priced from $1.75 upwards, so why not give us your
work instead of taking the same thing from agents at frorh $3.50
upwards. We can save you good money and guarantee to furr
nish as good or better frames and glass. Also, a big line of Mould
ings for making up picture frames. Let us do your work.
i. 1. WHITE 1 CO.,
Lamoille County's Largest Home Furnishers
IVIorris villc?, - - Vermont
UNDERTAKING AMBULANCE SERVICE
PORTLAND STREET, MORRISVILLE. VERMONT.
FOR ONE DAY ONLY
FRIDAY, HOVEhlBER 3, 1916
i
We will have on display and sale, for one day only, one of the
most complete lines, of Ladies' and Misses' Coats, Suits Furs
and Dresses in Vermont. All of' the new up-to-the-mement
styles and prices right.
Coats from $15.50 to $30.00 Suits from $7.75 to $37.50
Remember, our Last Sale of the Season.
Coais and Suits, Furs YOU ARE children's
Serge and Silk Dresses INVITED c oats
Davidson Morrill
Elsie Louise Morrill, a daughter of the
late Truman Morrill, and Irvin David
son, son of Mrs. Robert Wright of Lyn
donville, were united in marriage last
Saturday evening by Justice Niles. Mr.
and Mrs. Davidson will reside in Lyn
donville, where he is employed in a
machine shop.
The bride has resided in Morrisville for
several years and the groom was em
ployed for some time by E. C. Phelps on
the Elmore mountain road. Morrisville
friends extend best wishes.
Mr, Davidson was called to Island
Pond Sunday by the death of his sister-
in-law, Mrs. E. G. Davidson.
Improvements at A. G. Church
The local Advent Christian church,
under the pastorate of Rev. J. J. Dennett,
with his able corps of workers has made
many improvements upon the church
property the past year. Among the re
cent exterior improvements are new ce
ment steps and walk and a new chimney
from the ground to the top of the church
in the rear. The basement of the church
has also been lowered and is being ce
mented. Another improvement, which
was bronght about through the efforts
of Harold II. Patch was the finishing off
of a room in the top of the church over
the vestry, which utilizes a space hither
to unused. This is occupied by an en
thusiastic class of boys organized under
the name of the Loyal Vermont Workers,
and taught by Rev. Mr. Bennett.
Everything Way Up .
Kow is the time to save every scrap
of old Junk. Telephone or drop card
to O. K. and yon will receive prompt
service and highest prices.
OSCAR KAHN
Morrisville's Origin! Junk Man
Telephone, 25-5. Lake Street, Morrisville Vt
Dies on Trip to Hospital
Mrs. Leon Amsden died suddenly Moo
day morning, after a few hour's illness,
while being taken to the hospital in Bur
lington. She had been in her usual health
until about ten o'clock Sunday night and
bad spent the afternoon with her husband
at the home of his parents, Mr. and Mrs,
Abbott Amsden, on Lake street. She
was on her way home Mr. Amsden
having gone to the Morse Mill, where
his father is night watchman when she
was taken yiolently ill and was carried
to her home. A physician was called
and her condition was so serious that it
was thought test to take her to Burling
ton and the party started at about seven
a. m., in J. P. Roy's car but Mrs. Amsden
expired before they had gone a mile to
ward Hyde Park.
Anna Aldina McDermott was born in
Wolcott, December 1. 1892, one of sev
eral children of Mr. and Mrs. John Mc
Dermott and came to Morristdwn when
one year 01 age, where she bad passed the
remainder of her life. She was united in
marriage to Leon Amsden in 1915. She
is survived by her husband, parents,
three brothers and two sisters: Owen N.,
John E., Maurice J., Mrs. Mary J. Teve
yaw and Kate R. McDermott.
The funeral was held from the home of
her parents, at two o'clock today, Rev.
W. T. Best of the Methodist church offici
ating. Interment was in Mountian View
cemetery. j
HYDE PARK
Mrs. R. S. Page is spending a few days
in Burlington.
A. J. Clark and wife were business visit
ors in Burlington yesterday.
Fred Cowan of Whitefield, N. II., has
been spending a week in town.
Mrs. E. E. Badger is spending a few
days with relativts in Hardwick.
ti,: ; a Rpnuhlican vear. Vote for
R. V. Crocker for Representative.
Sam'l Morey has moved to Morrisville,
where he has a position as section boss.
When Hyde Park wants license she will
. aa A. iL.
vote license. Next luesday is noi mc
time nor the place" to consider that.
Remember the entertainment at the
Cone'l church Thursday evening. The
" . - n J
ladies are preparing a tine anair anu juu ;
should not miss it.
It is a serious business to pull down
guide boards.
Mr. and Mrs. R. H. Fuller of Wilming
ton, Mass., and Mrs, N. R. Prentiss of
Redington, Mass., who have been visit"
ing their cousin, Edw. Stygles, returned
to their homes today.
The Republicans of this town have a
worthy candidate for Representative in
Rollo W. Crocker of the North village.
He is an exemplary young man, has
served several years on the school board
and is its present chairman. He will
make a good Representative and will be
found laboring for the best interests of
his town and state. It has been several
yesrs since the north village has had the
Representative and it is but fair that it
should go to that end of the town this
year. The Republican party is strongly
in the majority in this town and that
party should see to it that their candi
date receives the full vote.
The opening entertainment of the
lecture course on Monday evening was
largely attended. The concert given by
the Mildred Morrison Co., was an excel
lent one, every number being of a high
order, was well received. Miss Morrison
as a vocalist and reader is charming,
while Miss Lindskog, as a violinist and
pianist proved herself an artist. Mr.
Taggart has a fine voice and in his solos
and in the duets with Miss Morrison ren
dered several fine selections. He is at
home also with the slide trombone. The
Ladies' Club, who are at the heal of
the course this season, are to be con
gratulated upon the auspicious opening
I of the same.
HYDE
PARK
I
li Si
I9 well stocked for the cold weath
er sure to come! A new line of
Boys' & Girls' Maekinaws, Sweat
ers, Gloves, etc., just in. Be sure to
pet one of those House Dresses lor
$1.00 and Kitnona Aprons for 65c
or 75c. Our Dress Goods are going
at the following prices: 50-inch
Blue Worsted 85c yd, 42-in Wool
Shepard-check in black and white,
GOc; 3G-in. dark red Serge, 65c; 42-
in. dark brown wool Top in. $1.00; 42-in. dark green wool Poplin.
l.OO; 21 in. Ulack elvet 1.25. All-over Laces 50c to 1.00 a yard.
We aell PilUburv's Flour. II ive vou tried our Peanut Butter T Whmt about Pure
Boneless Cod, 2 lbs. fo 25c f A new supply of Dtes and Figs just in.
OYSTERS FOR SATURDAY
Uargain Daj Specials, Saturday, Xor. 4t1i, Only:
x Birs Sunnv-Mondaj Ni ip 24ets; Two Cans Salmon 25c; One Bottle Sawyer's
Ammonia 9e; Ooe lb. Sunriw Coffee, re 52c value, 21c; Turity Corn Pc. Call on us.
A. J. CLAKIC, Hyde Park.
