1W f :
3 V' A,
X ' ; jj i. . n I r is hi
i
.v.
TEN PAGES
price two c:
i VCL
LVIll. ko. 16
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., WEDNESDAY, JANUARY. 19 J16
i -
Ths Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich, is Dciibla That of Any -Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation Js
MSIMJC3MI
Teutons Inflicted Losses on
70,000 Killed or Wounded and 6,000 Prisoners ,
GERMANS EVACUATING
To the Southweast of Riga and South of Widsy the Russians
T ; During a - Snowstorm Surprised German Posts' and
' ' Destroyed Them With the Capitulation of the Monte
negrins Hostilities Have Ceased in the Balkans British
and French Continue Their Artillery Duels 1 With the
" Germans Violent Snowstorms in the Caucasus Have
Ended; the Russian Drive Against the Turks Greece
" Has Become the Center of Political Interest. ,
rrhe offensive which the Russians
launched against the Austro-Hungari-ana
in East Gallcla :' and 1 along the
Bessarabian frontier .': Christmas eve,
descrfbed as to . INew Tear's battle,"
came to an, end Jan. 16,, according to
the AuBtro-Hungarian war office, with
,ths Teutons holding all their lines on
" the - 80-mile front, having . inflicted
losses on Busaian estimated at 70,000
men killed or wounded and 8,000 cap-
tared", "-r- .
That this ends only one phase of the
offensire, however, is Indicated by the
Austrian official statement' that Rus
clan reinforcements are toeing thrown
into East Galicia. - The Austrians all
along have , considered that the -big
Russian offensive was undertaken with
Important military and political objects
in view.. To it has been attributed the
dual purpose of lessening the strain, on
the -entente allies in the -Balkans and
possibly of causing Rumania to enter
the war on the side of . the entente
allies. ". --::v.' ,'
' Unofficial advices from Kiev are to
the effect. that, the Germans are evac
uating IrUtsk, one of the triangle of
fortresses 5-n, Volhynia around which
there was sanguinary flighting in the
fall. . ' fc :; j :V,V-;.
6t!U farther north, to he southeast
of Riga an, south of Wldsy, the Rus
sians during a snowstorm made sur
, prise' attacks' against? .German '.posts
and destroyed them. ; v .- -v'
Greece, Cjenter of Political Interest.
From a political - point of - vieV,
Greece again has become a: center of
great interest. In addition to the re
port that - the entente allies have -ordered
Greece to hand passports to the
representatives of the central powers
and . their allies in the "kingdom, comes
an assertion that- British and French
troops have been landed at Corinth, 48
miles west, of Athens. ' Should the lat
ter report prove true, the entente allies
would have a line of bases almost
lurrounding Greece, at Saloniki on the
ALLEGED CONSPIRATOR TO .
FURNISH AMERICAN PASSPORTS
Is ' Believed to Have Been Drowned
While Attempting to Esoape.
Ksw Tork, Jan. 18. Hans Adam
Von . -Wedell, indicted here on Feb. 4.
115, as ringleader of an alleged con
spiracy to furnish American passports
- to German reservists returning home
by neutral ports, is believed to be
dead, according to an announcement
made - by the federal prosecution au
thorities here today. -": : '
Advices received from England, it
was said, indicate that Von Wedell,
who was taken from the Scandinavian
American liner Bergensf Jord ' by the
British authorities while attempting
to iescape from . this oountry, was
drowned with many others when a
nava vessel conveying him from Kirk
wall to a "British alien enemy deten
tion., camp struck a : mine and was
sunk. , - . i- - -
When government seoret serviee
agents here attempted to round up the
alleged passport conspirators last year
Von Wedell, who had been living at a
local-club,' eould not be located. It
- was then learned that a man answer
ing his description had sailed on the
Bergensfjord under an assumed name.
Messages Bent by cable and wireless
resulted In. the vessel being held up by
the British authorities while en route
to Bergen. The passenger answering
- Von . WedeU's description , was seized
and taken to Kirkwall, where it was
learned later his identity as the fugi
tive was established.
He was then ordered taken to the
alien enemy detention camp.
60-KNOT GALE OF?
' ii N EWFOUDLAMN D CO AST
Continued 'for Twelve, Hour With
. Heavy Fall f Snow.
. Gitrllng, N. F, Jan. H. JThe west
coast of Newfoundland is in the grip
Df o. 60-knot northwest gale which at
boon today had continued for twelve
hours. The wind is accompanied by
a thick fall of snow. .
Bight American herring vessels with
troeen cargoes are ready to sail from'
Fy of Islands when the storm abates.
They are the J. J. Flaherty, Polly An
na, Mmxine Elliott, Douglas " Adams,
' Romance, Gladiator, Senator and Inde
pendence. Other Massachusetts boats
will be ready to sail at the end of the
week. Earring Is plentiful. Up to the
present there has been very little frost.
barred"production OF ' !
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.
Hartford High Sahool Committee Acts
t ' en Suggestion of Rabbi Ettleeon.
Rattfbrd, Conn., Jan. IS. The high
school - committee tonight decided to
bar the production by the high school
dramatic club, of , Sh&kespeare'a play,
"The Merchant of Venice," as the re-r--'t
of a protest registered by Rabble
Eittfson of the Congregation of Beth
Israel.'. ; -.j .-i..
Muscovites Estimated at
FORTRESS IN V0LHYNIA
east, at vonnth on the south, and at
Corfu on the west.
' -. Quiet in the Balkans.
With the ending of the Montenegrin
campaign by the capitulation of the
Montenegrins to the Austro-Hungari-ans,
hostilities for ' the moment have
ceased in the Balkans, though a des
patch from Athens reports the drop
ping of bombs by 25 French aeroplanes
on a Bulgarian position northeast of
Saloniki. Hundreds of Bulgarians are
declared to have been killed in this at
tack and a very large number wound
ed. " ' "
' Artillery Duels in West.' ; '
The British and French on the west-,
em line continue : their artillery duels
with the -Germans. Paris reoorts the
shattering of German trenches in the
region or MouUn-Sous-Toutvent ana
the damaging of German batteries in
the VosKes. while the British record
the. destruction- of -a, large ', portion of
the parapets of German .trenches by
the explosion of a mine near Fricourts
The Germans are declared to have suf
fered considerably from, the effects of
the explosion and. the' - shells of the
British , guns which followed the de
tonation of the mihei ;One. French and
two . . British... aeroplanes . Jiaye been
brooght flown oy ijerrnajis tt tne
western' -thea-tfe' . ,.- ...,.-.:..'.,. x.
The usual artillei-y engagements con
tinue along the Austro-Italian front; .i .
; .Violent Snowstorms in Caucasus. -
- Violent snowstorms In the Caucasus
have not ended the Russian offensive
against the Turks, who are declared by
Constantinople to be '- battling - hard
against the superior forces of the in.
vaders. J, Petrograd reports the capture
of, 20 Turkish officers and over 200 men
and quantities of rifles, war materials.
tents and provisions in this region.
Nothing additional has come through
concerning- the situation in -Mesopota
mia, where last accounts had the Brit
ish forging ahead against the Turks
in an endeavor to bring aid 'to the
British force beleaguered at K.ut-el
Amara. ' - .
PRESIDENT .TO FIGHT FOR
. STRONGER ARMY AND NAVY
Is to Make Public Addresses in .Sup-
port of the Project. ' .
"Washington, Jan. 18. President "Wil
son is planning to assume personal
leadership in the fight for a stronger
army and navy. So many reports
have reached him of contusion over
the issue, before congress and of the
uncertainty of the outcome that he
has determined not only to go before
the country in public addresses, but
to confer further on the subject with
leaders of the senate and house..
.. Representative Hay and Represen
tative Padgett, chairmen of the house
military and naval committees, re
spectively, have informed Mr. Wilson
that it will be from six weeks to two
months before the committees will be
ready to report the army and navy
appropriation bills. While this work
is going on he proposes to do his ut
most to solidify sentiment: among the
people and members of congress in
favor -of the plans, drawn -up-, by the
war and navy departments.
Friends of the president represent
him as being undeterred by the open
opposition of former Secretary Bryan
and other pacificists and by differences
among advocates of national defense
over the exact plans to be adopted.
He is said tobe firmly of the opinion
that the programme, prepared by Sec
retaries Garrison - and Daniels is the
best that can be offlered at this time.
Plans for the speaking trips will be
prepared as' quickly as possible. - If
necessary the president may change
the White House social programme
mapped out before Christmas.
AN "EMBARGO" DINNER
Q'VEN AT WATER BURY
At Which Leading Railroad Men" of
the 8tate Were Present.
Waterbury, Conn., Jan.." 18. The
leading railroad menof the state were
present at the ""'embargo" dinner of
the chamber of commerce at the Elton
today and vividly portrayed the exist
ing conditions of freight congestion.
They cheered the representatives of
concerns interested in freight conges
tion by their candid admissions, their
convincing arrays of figures and their
story of the effort of the roads to keep
me pues or ireignt. oir ine tracks.
Vice President A. R. Whalev out
lined the method ' of the railroad in
dealing with the situation and told of
the reverses - it has met - in the coal
problem and In labor trouble. An eDl.
demlo '.of grippe and pneumonia, he
said, struck one department in New
Haven and seriously handicapped it.
utners were anectea in the same way.
. General Manager C. lu Bardo nlead
ed for more speed in the unloading of
cars ana said that tne railroad would
soon get the upper hand in the situa
tion if cars were unloaded in all dos
sible haste, - He said- that in Water -bury
today there were 1,200 cars and
that there should not be over 900 if
the road were to operate efficiently,
Cabled Paragraphs
: '.:: i ; . ; -"--.'.. V
; Colonel House Still in London, .
London. Jan. 18. 9.1i' t . m-The
Times' report that Colonel E. M.
House, President Wilson's - personal
representative, had gone to the . conti
nent la erroneous. Colonel House is
still . in London, conferring with Am
bassador Page and meeting prominent
officials. . He will go to Paris within
week.
NATION'S DUTY TOWARDS.
ITS CITIZENS IN MEXICO
Republican Senators Attack President
Wilson's Policy in Heated Speeches.
Washington. Jan. 1. Discussion of
tre nation's duty towards its citizens
in Mexico cropped , out in the senate!
again today .and another intervention
resolution was added to the half dozen
Introduced since the Santa Psabel
murders. -Several republican senators
attacked President Wilson's . policy in
heated speeches and Chairman Stone
of the foreign relations committee and
other democrats defended it.
Iti the meantime officials at the state
department continued preparation of
the data to be laid before the foreign
relations , committee in. response to
Senator Fall s resolution . asking for
information on conditions in Mexico.
It was thought doubtful tonight that
this data would be assembled in time
for presentation at the committee s
m ..tin. tnnnnnAr Tf IXri 1 4irl.i
among other things a record of out
rages against Americans - in . Mexico
since the overthrow of - Madero, cor
respondence between the state depart
ment , and ' its special representatives
there and results of the investigation
oC the story that the Americans killed
at Santa Ysabel were traveling under
safe conducts granted oy Carranza
authorities. . t -'
- Some officials believe that In for
warding the information to the senate
the president should include a personal
explanation of the present situation
with a view to influencing senators to
stop agitating for armed intervention..
The president has shown no indication
of accepting this suggestion, , but he
will caretully examine - the depart
ment's report- before sending it to
the senate and will decide then how
it should be handled. -
The intervention resolution, round
which -today's senate debate centered,
was introduced -by Senator Lippitt.
Senators Borah and Curtis joined in
the attack on the administration pol
icy and Senators Stone and Newlands
replied. The latter - pleaded with the
republicans not to "open a Pandora's
box of trouble" by further arousing
the war spirit of the country.- -
BIENNIAL CONVENTION OF
UNITED MINE WORKERS
Demand for Improvements in Wage
- Scale Suggested. " '
Indianapolis. Ind.i Jan.''-18. Two ln-
cidents- that stood out in the opening
proceedings of the biennial 'Conven
tion of -the United 'Jlinev Workers of
America ere . toaay . were, the, hearty
f 'appreval given. -by- the 1300 delegates
when President John P. White . said
that the -miners should share- In. the
present prosperity and the waves of
applause that followed the declarations
of the miners' leader and Secretary
Treasurer, William Green that in their
belief the workingmen of the country
were opposed to the present prepared
ness agitation. - 1 -
Mr. . White - in- his - biennial report
urged the scale committee of the con
vention to carefully canvass the- sit
ua tion in formulating, demands. -He
called attention to improved Industrial
conditions,, stated .the ' , country was
"entering upon an unprecedented area
of prosperity" and that the convention
should demand such improvements in
the wage - scale as conditions will
warrant. j-
President White touched on prepar
edness before he took uo the wage
discussion and consideration of war
and his declaration of opposition to
preparedness on . a large scale brought
the first real applause in the conven
tion. He said he was "fully con
vinced that the men of labor are un
alterably opposed to the whole scheme
of preparedness," and added that it
is to be "earnestly hoped that the
plans to make our country an armed
camp which may be used to extend
commercialism abroad and exploit la
bor at home will be defeated." :
Secretary Green was equally em
phatic in his declaration against pre
paredness and -said that the . conven
tion "ought to give expression to its
attitude toward this so-called prepar
edness programme." -. i
he convention devoted the opening
sessions to organization and ' reading
of reports of officers. According to
the latest available figures, Mr. White's
report said. -there are 7"63.185 persona
Lsmployed In- the coal mining industry
in tne united estates. The membership
of the miners' union Is 861,027. -
TESTS. FOR VOTING . r
1 tN NEW YORK STATE
Billseto Be Submitted Impose English
- Reading and Writing v ,., .
New York, Jan. 18. Iidentical bills
which would impose an English read
ing and writing test for voting anM
Picommena action placing Spanish and
ortuguese on a parity with French
and -German as studies in the public
schools,, will be submitted to the vari
ous state legislatures, according to an
announcement made today at the an
nual meeting here of the American
society, -. .'. .'-. ..,
The society also proposes to ask
congress to utilize the accumulating
immigrant fund for the welfare and
education of immigrants and for an
English reading and speaking test for
naturalization. -
SOUVENIR GOLD DOLLAR ,
IN HONOR DF M'KINLEY.
Bill Favorably Reported by ' House
Committee on Coinage. .
Washington, Jan, ' 18. A hundred
thousand souvenir gold , dollars com
memorating erection of the $300,000
memorial building soon to be dedi
cated -at Nilea, Ohio, in honor - of
William McKinley, would be coined
under a bill favorably reported today
by the house committee on coinage,
weights and measures. The McKinley
birthplace- memorial association is to
be permitted to sell the 'coins at -a
premium to help pay for construc
tion and maintenance of the building.
Movements of Steamships. --f s
' Piraeus, ' Jan. 12. Arrived,' steamer
Themistocles, New York." "
' Chrtstlansand, ' Jan.. 17. Arrived,
steamer United States, New York.
London, Jan. 18. Arrived at Graves
end, steamer Ryndam, New York via
Falmouth for Rotterdam. - "J
Glasgow,' Jan. 17 -Sailed, steamer
Carthaginian, Portland. Maine. .
New York, Jan. 18. Arrived,' steamer
Vasilefs Constantinos, Piraeus. -
Craven Spirit of .
a Villa Leader
CRAWLED IN SUPPLICATION BE-
- FORE HIS EXECUTIONERS i ' :
SHOT WHILE ON KNEES
Bodies of Jose Rodrique and ' Miguel
Banco-Valles Are Being .Exhibited as
a Warning of What May be Expect
ed by Other Outlaws. ' - .
Juarez, - Mex., Jan. ' 18. The bodies
of Jose Rodriguez and Mitruel Baca-
Valles, executed Villa leaders, which
were placed on exhibition here, today
as evidence that the de facto govern
ment is determined to exterminate the
bandits who slaughtered 18 American
mining men near Santa Ysabel eight
days ago, were put aboard a train late
today ,and sent - to . Chihuahua City.
There, according; to Mexican officials,
they will be shown in public again as
examples of what will happen to any
one adopting , the career of an outlaw
in Mexico. ' ' -
Rodriguez Executed Last Thursday,
Rodriguez, who was captured by
employes of the Babricora ranch and
executed by Carranza - authorities at
Madera last Thursday, was identified
as the Villa leader who has been burn
ing railroad bridges, looting mines and
ranches and threatening the lives of
foreigners ever since Villa was driven
out of Sonora, following the series of
defeats that began at Agua Prieta
Nov-1st last.'
Baca-Valles was caught 14 . miles
west of Columbus, N. M., and was exe
cuted early today, at Juarez after he
had been brought . here on the train
that bore the body of. Rodriguez. En
rique Cisneros, . another Villa - officer
who "was captured with Baca-Valles,
Is being brought overland . to face a
courtmartlal. ... . . .. . -. -
Baca-Vairea Begged for His Life.
Baca -Valles, contrary to' the ' usual
fatalistic attitude of Mexicans, begged
for his life. According to Americans
who saw him killed, the Villa chief
crawled, supplicating, before his exe
cUtioners and was shot to death on bis
knees. - V' - " " .
A train - from the interior , was ex
pected tonight.- Only three Americans
are reported to be on board. The train
which left today for the south -.carried
a number of Americans back into Mex
lOO. r. - . - . - . .-' '" . , .
STEAMER RYNDHAM HAS ' . . :
i -w.fARRIVED-AT GRAVE5ENP1
.'" r y-- -v ...v,
Three , Stokers . Killed and r Four .In
:.s . - jured All Passengers Safe.";: , '
-1 Londoh()Jan. 48. The' .trans-Atlantic-'
liner Rvndham nasaed Southend
today down by the bows, with" a list
to starboard. All her passengers -are
safe. Three stokers were killed and
four injured. r
The Ryndham sailed from New York
on Jan. s lor Falmouth and Rotter
dam. She passed the Lizard on Jan.
14 and her arrival at . Falmouth had
not been reported, although ordinarily
she would have reached Falmouth the
day after being reported ofT the. Liz
ard. - - ' . - - 4 j
The Ryndham belongs to the Holland-America
line and has been in ser
vice for a number of years between
New York and Rotterdam. She is 560
feet long, of 23,070 tons displacement.
She has accommodations for 293$ pas
sengers: v - .-
The steamer Ryndham has arrived
at Gravesend. The passengers who did
not land at Falmouth will remain on
board in accordance with official In
structions. None of them was Injured.
R. I. TEXTILE WORKERS
GET WAGE INCREASE.
Notices Posted in Mills of Blaokstone
- . and Pawtucket Valeys. ;
Providence, R. L, Jan. 18. A raise in
pay for 22.000 operatives In virtuallv
all the textile centers of the state was
assured today through the posting of
notices to employes In mills through
out the Blackstone and Pawtucket val
leys. - While the amount of the in
crease- is not named, it is understood
that it will be about 6 per cent, to
conform with that in other New Eng
Ian dmills. ; . '
The movement began In a few mills
In this state la&t week with th an.
nouncement that an advance would be
effective on January 17 and bv todav
most of the -mills had taken similar
action. ...-.;.,. .:.':.." ".".: - .-
NEED OF KEEPING FORESTRY 3
WORK OUT OF POLITIC8.
Urged by Prof. H. H. Chapman of
Yale Forestry School.
Boston, Jan. 18. The need of keeping
state forestry work out of politics was
urged in a paper prepared by Prof. H.
H. Chapman of the Yale Forestry
school for today's session of the an
nual meeting- of the "American Forestry
association. , . :
"There is but one way to secure ef
fective results In state forestry." said
Prof. Chapman, "and that is by en
trusting the work to trained forest.
ere. - . . .. . -- .v.--
B. A. Sterling, forest engineer, of
Chicago, discussed the need of care
ful utilization of - mature lumber
through modern forestry methods. -
PERSIA NOT SUNK BY ; ' i:
; I ;: . GERMAN S U B M A R I N E.
Berlin Foreign Office Has So Informed
'..";.; Secretary Lansing. 1 " ..
Washington, Jan. 18. Secretary
Lansing announced today that - the
Berlin foreign office had - Informed
Ambassador Gerard that all German
submarines in the Mediterranean have
reported and that none was concerned
In the destruction of the British
steamer Persia. y .
GIVEN PERMISSION TO ; - i
Scandinavian . Members of the Ford
;-..:".' Peace Commission. . :'
London,' Jan.. 18, 6.35 p. nx A- des
patch to Reuter's Telegram company
from The Hague says the Scandina
vian members of the Ford peace mis
sion ' have received permission : from
the ' German -government to return to
their homes by way of Germany.
Exhibits Deeply
AffGcterJMrs.filohr
BLOOD 8TAINED , - GARMENTS
WORN BY HER HUSBAND.
TOOK A HASTY GLANCE
Constable James E. Wallace Testified
That Mr. Mohr Told ; Him That
Mohr Was a Dangerous Man Healis
May Take Stand Today;
' Providence, R. I.. Jan. 18. .The in
troduction bv the prosecution today of
the bloodstained garments worn by her
husband. Dr. ; C. Franklin : Mohr, on
the night -that ne was xiuea. iimrai
broke the self-control which his widow,
nhn i n (-rimed of InstiKating two ne
groes to murder him, haa exhibited
ever since the trial began. Although
she kept her gaze averted alter one
haatv dance at the bullet-pierced hat
and other clothing and one of her. at
torneys attempted to ' divert ner at
tention by talking to her while the
various exhibits were being offered,
she constantly wiped tears from her
eves and it was evident that she "Was
deeply affected. ; . . ' ; .
Declared Dr. Mohr Was a Dangerous
".-. . Man. V:-'--':
Aside from the introduction of the
exhibits a Weature of the day's pro
ceedings was the' testimony of Con
stable James E. Wallace, iuho quoted
Mm Mohr as having told him . that
Dr. Mohr - was a dangerous man and
that if some people had gone through
what Bhe had . eone through they
would have killed the doctor long ago.
Constable Wallace in -cross exam-t
ination admitted that . Mrs. Mohr told
him- that Bhe loved her husband. Ho
denied that: he told her that, the doc
tor was -a scoundrel and ought to be
shot and that he knew "two mert down
around Barrlngton who had It in for
the doctor because of his professional
treatment of their daughters."
: Articles Identified. t
The state introduced testimony to
Show what personal effects were found
In Dr. Mohr"s clothing when the doc
tor's searched his pockets after ..he
was shot. Each article was identified.
Including letters and envelopes and
money. . This was necessary, the pros
ecution believed, to refute any pos
sible theory of robbery. .- Two of the
tetters found in Dr. Mohf s pockets
were directed to one of the negro de
fendants. ."Victor Brown, care of Dr.
Mohr, but, inasmuch - as the state
conceded that they were introduced
Just o show . their- external . appear
anee.Uhe contents were Ordered sealed
knowwhat is in . them.-- r - .
-The prosecution -claims that it has
other letters, taken from Brown's lock
er in the. garage. In.1 Newport - which
will be shown later to be of importance
as related to the case of -Mrs. Mohr.
v Healis May Testify Today. i
" It was said tonight that George W.
Healis, the negro chauffeur of Dr.
Motif's car on the night he was killed
Is likely to go on the stand some time
tomorrow, Healis was accused with
Victor Brown and Henry H. Spellman
of .participation in the murder, but
afterward pleaded nolo contendre to a
charge , of manslaughter- and turned
state's evidence. ,1 ,
UNNATURAL SONS DECLINE
'.- -. ASSISTANCE OF LAWYERS
Chicago Men Who Confessed to Plot
ting Murder of Their Father. v
Chicago, Jan. 18. rWbile Irving and
Herbert -Updike, who are said by -the
police to have confessed to plotting
the, murder of their - father, Furman
D. XTudike, were declining the assist
ance -of lawyers today, investigators
were at Crown Point, Ind., looking into
the reported marriage of Herbert, the
younger of the prisoners, to Mellye
de Onsonne, a cabaret dancer.
Officials at Crown Point said that
a marriage ceremony uniting the two
was" performed January 8. Justice of
the' Peace H. B.. Nicholson identified
photographs of Updike and the singer
as correct likenesses of the persons
for whom he read the marriage service
and a return on the marriage license
purporting to show that the ceremony
had been performed was found in the
files of the county clerk.
Updike declined to confirm the story.
The young woman could not be found
tonight.
She talked to reporters earlier In the
day,, however, and spoke of a previous
marriage and a six-year-old daughter.
"Herbert loved me and I told him that
I was married but was getting a di
vorce,", she said. .
WOMAN EDITOR CATED
A8 HER OWN LAWYER.
Charged With Circulating Literature
' en Control of Birth.
New York.' Jaaf 18. Mrs. Margaret
Sanger, : editor of The Woman Rebel,
was called to trial in the federal court
today on the charge of circulating lit
erature on tne control or birth. The
case was put over until Jan. 24 owing
to the pressure of court business.
.Mrs. Sanger acted as her own lawyer
and demurred. when Judge Clayton
postponed the case, declaring that she
wanted to settle the question at once
as to whether or not she had a right
to promulgate her theories.
Mrs. Sanger was indicted about a
year ago.- - . ;- .
ANNUAL EST! M ATE OF., ; ' .
FARM CATTLE IN COUNTRY.
21,988,000 Milk Cows and, 39,463,000
(.-'---: :'.., Other. Cattle. ' '
Washington, Jan. 18. The depart
ment of agriculture's annual estimate
of farm cattle in the country Jan. 1,
issued . today, shows 21.888.000 milk
cows, an increase of (.4 per cent, over
1915; 39,458,000 other cattle, an in
crease of 6.4 per cent.; 49,162,000 sheep,"
decrease of 1-8 per cent., and 68,047,000
swine, an increase of 6.3 per cent.
' OBITUARY. "
i I, -" - . f
,v s- Harry D. Olmstead. "".
East Hartford, Conn., Jan, 18. Har
ry D. Olmstead, well known In Chris
tian Endeavor circles throughout the
state, died at his home here tonight,
aged ' 64. . He war president of the
Hartford union for a number of years.
He was an architect . and " had been
connected with the Connecticut Mu
tual Insurance company for 30 years.
He leaves his wife and a son.
Condensed Telegrams ;
Coal is selling at 40 per ton In
Italy. , . , - v
- Emperor William hat left Berlin for
the front. ,,..; ,
Portia hd, Mo, is requesting bids for
a, temporary loan of (150,000.
The Chicopee, Mass- High School
was burned at a loss of 25Q000.
t 1 -
Persia Is reported to have declared
war against Russia and England. .
--' f-'.
A heavy blizzard struck Oswego,- N.
Y.. Interfering with railroad traffic. ,:
Que2 Wilheimina Is visiting the
flooded districts of northern Holland.
President "Wilson will undertake ' a
stumping tour Jn behalf of his pre
paredness programme. . . - ; . -
.vi i r .. . . - "
cents, tank wagon basis. . ,r , ' .-
Henry S. Ames, 'vice president' of
the Mississippi Valley Tust Co., died
Of pneumonia in St. Louis.
The national" convention of the
United - Mine " Workers of. America
opened yesterday in Indianapolis.
Gold coins to the amount of $250,000
was withdrawn from the New York
sub treasury for shipment to Canada.
The plant of the Asbury Park, N. J,
Press was destroyed by -fire at a- loss
of 1100,000. One fireman was badly
hurt. ... ; . - -. ' -.-"- " - - ".-
A bill to regulate the price of gaso
line wa sintroduced in the House of
Representatives by Johnson, of Ken
tucky. ' -;;.'. -
" Four persons were seriously injured
when an Illinois Central passenger
train jumped the track near Pisgah,
lowa. . .. '.".',. !
' Articles of incorporation were filed
at Dover, Del., by the American Chem
ical and By-Products Co., capital $3,-
750,000. - ..;
A subscription of $27,000,000 lire was
made to the new national. Italian
loan by the National Insurance Insti
tution. . - "
The New' Haven Railroad will not
raiser its freight, emabrgo for- some
time. General Manager Bardo stated at
New Haven. . . v ; - -
V Pittsburgh is suffering from a short
age of laborers, employment for near
ly 6,000 skilled and-unskilled laborers
going begging. . -. v .jt ..
. Themaa Mett OibsmL formsr Ward
en of Sing Sing, pleaded net guilty at
White Plains,. N. Y., to an indictment
ccarginsorerysv'-v
- Restoration of order along the) Mexi
can border is demanded In a resolution
Introduced in the Senate by Senator
' A report issued by the Kansas State
Department of - Agrculture v estimates
the area of wheat sown in Kansas last
fall at 8,454,00 acres. - r-.
" Twelve German prisoners of war es
caped from the detention camn at Am.
herst, N. B. . No trace of any one of
mem nas been found. . ...
' The corpse of the 'executed Villa
leader, Gen. Jose Rodriaue. was plac
ed on public exhibition in the yard of
tne juares custom House. .. .
Prince Eitel Friedrich is reported to
nave visitea nis uncle, K.lng Constan
tino of Greece, on a -special mission
ior tne uerman government.
, Six thousand ' garment workers,
mostly women and girls, . went on
strike in Philadelphia for higher wag.
es, closing about 250 factories.,
' The bill providing for Increased pay
for the German soldiers will not be
voted on, the Minister of Finance hay.
ins; refused to accept the measure.
The funeral of Rev. Abram Coles
Osborne, D. D for five years pres
ident of Benedict college at Columbia.
o wis neia at norm Adams, Mass
Kern Beath, formerly connected with
the Standard Oil Co.. in New York and
Chicago, was found dead in his garage
at joioommgton, iu., irom pet ro mortis.
' After having been refused a 10 per
cent, wage . increase, 100 weavers at
the Lowell.' Mass,-mill of the -Bay
State Cotton Corporation went on
strike. i ..
.The Spanish steamship Belgica has
been ; sunk at sea, according to a re
port from London, which states, that
21 members of the crew were pick
ed up. - . . -
Campaign expenditure in Massa
chusetts in 115 totalled $411,478 an In
crease of 8112,707 over 1914 accordlntt
to official, figures ' made public :, . by
secretary ox state iangiey.
A government bill providing for the
expenditure of $12,000,000 to . render
Parle . permanently immune from
floods on the Seine was introduced In
the French Chamber of . Deputies.
The Paris Petit Journal has sug
gested ' that - a fetatue of Brand Whit
lock. American ambassador . to Bel
gium, be erected after (the " war in
recognition of his help to the Belgian
people.- v : 1 ' ', v :
' A report from Athens states that
Mrs. Walter Farwell, a Chicago news
paper correspondent, and Miss Mitch
ell, another American woman, are be
ing detained by the Bulgarians at
Monastir. . r - -; -
About twenty members of the exeeu
live - board of the Connecticut Con
gress of Mothers -for Child Welfare
met In Hartford -cor-a business meet
ing and luncheon. . .-
Frank Corlino, aliaa Frank Kelly of
Meriden was ' . sentenced in the su
perior court at New Haven to from
one to four years In prison for assault
and robbery of a Meriden woman.
States Tire Co, annonced an advance
of 10 per cent, on all grades of . its
tires. Because of the increased cost
of cruae runner-, otner companies are
expected w iuuuw quiu -
John B. Riley Will knew within two
days whether he Xz. to be retained in
office as superintendent of New York
prisons or be removed by Governor
Whitman, who recently . filed charges
01 CEisconuuoi against mm.
battery eooui vAS glg;:;: ':;
.. .. '.- . . . .. . ii ;'.
Fact -Revealed "by Investigaticn of tha Vrc:!..
. Submarine E-2
GUNCOTOri VAS FOUND
Four Memben'6f the Court Inspect Interior of the Wrecked
; ? SubmersiUe -Member of the Crew Were Praised fcr
A ;Esuishy-Ie Which Started Near .the .Torpedo
; Heads After tne Explosion Court Will Sit Today t
. Naval Hospital, Where Depositions From Men Injured
. in the Explosion Will be Taken. - V -'.V . ..
New York. Jan. 18. There were four
torpedo heads, each containing approx
imately 120 pounds of guncotton, on
board the United States submarine E-2
at the. time of the explosion which
caused the death of five men and in
juries to nine others at the New York
navy yard Saturday, according to the
testimony today of Lieutenant Charles
M. Cooke, commander of the E-2, be
fore the board of inquiry appointed by
8ecretajry JMaitrt:-'' , , .
, v Guncotton Was JrVet. ;
It was later explained that the gun-
cotton was wet and that there was no
great danger of it exploding so long
a it was in that condition, but mem
bers of the crew were praised for ex
tinguishing a fire that started near the
torpedo heads after the explosion.
it was said that if the fire had con
tinued the guncotton might have dried
out and become exceedingly liable to
explode, in which events- the - havoc
would have been terrific. .
The court opened its sessions today
and the first action of the four mem
bers was: to don overalls nad Jumpers
and inspect the wrecked interior of the
E-Z. . Lieutenant C. S. McDowell, a
member of the court, was the first
witness. v " .-
Greatest Damage in Battery Cempart-
ment. '.. -'
Lieutenant McDowell said he arrived
at the navy yard about two hours after
the explosion and made an inspection
of the craft- This showed, he : said.
that the greatest damage, was done in
the after compartment of the Edison
LORD DERBY DISCUSSED 'f:
j y THg WAfi : OUTLOOK
n; Tnf ormal 'fiSannsr withT"JTrrpofi
1 1 r. dent ot, the Associated jPreJev-'. .
London,.' Jan. 18, ; .30- p." ' m. -Lord'
Derby received - the -correspondent of
The Associated. Press at the war of
fice .this,, afternoon and for half an
hour . discussed the ' war outlook re
sulting jfrom the Derby recruiting
scheme and the ' compulsory, military
sesvtce , bill, more particularly . their
effect in assuring the prosecution of
the war to a successful, conclusion." -
; The talk was informal- and without
official restraint, as Lord Derby gives
the impression that he is sure of him
self and not afraid to talk out on sub
jects - officials usually avoid.- Asked
how many ' men would come forward
under the Derby plan -and what the
British fighting force.. In . the ; field
would be. he said: v , .
"It is . impossible to make estimates
on the numbers of : men, for if the
Angel Gabriel made an estimate some
one would be found . in the house of
commons to rise and challenge the
estimate. But one - essential thing is
sure it has been -a complete answer
to Germany and. has shown that we
will have enough men to carry for
ward the war to a successful conclu
sion." $100 AND COSTS FOR THEFT
OF, TROLLEY CASH REGISTER.
How a Waterbury Conductor Defraud -'.
ed the Connecticut Co. . :. ,
; Waterbury, Conn, Jan. IS. Harry
Stewart, 22. a conductor for the Con
necticut company, was fined in city
court today $100 and costs for the
theft of a trolley cash register valued
at SIS, and In addition -was sentenced
to ten days in Jail with execution of
sentence- suspended. f- His motorman.
Harry Brushed 17. was fined $25 and
costs " for . unlawfully s accepting $2
from Stewart on the two nights the
register 'had been : used on the car
manned by them. The scheme of
Stewart used on two nights-in which
he cleaned up $10-- was jk have ' the
stolen - register brought , td the car by
his 10 year old brother," and ; taken
away by him at the end of the night's
work, afer which sufficient fares would
be -rung,' up "Onf the -regular register,
hidden under a seat, to balance the ac
count turned in. The scheme was dis
covered when a patrolman stopped the
10 year old .brother. at 1M0 o'clock at
night and took a peep into the bag the
lad was. carrying, finding the regis
ter. Brusber took an appeal with bond
set -at $100.- Stewart up to a late hour
had been unable to secure $200 monds
for appeal. ' - v . . ,
NO 'GENERAL - LIFTING - V : '
OF RAILROAD EMBARGOES.
Rolief of Congestion of Export Freight
8hpment . Not .Sufficient.-
' New York, , Jan. : 18. Relief In 'con
gestion of export freight shipments
has not yet reached sufficient propor
tions to justify any generous lifting of
tne emoargoes aeciarea Dy railroads
according to , statement Issued to
night by C. C. McCain, of the East
ern Trunk Line association after j a
meeting or operating officials. The net
reduction in the-number of loaded ears
on hand is approximately ,2,500 over
the preceding week: ' ..
The Lehigh Valley - railroad, It is
vtated, now has extended its embar
go to virtually, all eastbound business,
but the Lackawanna railroad has re
moved its embargo- on- export ship
ments ' of provisions and : perishable
freight when" ocean"engagemehts are
continued. - . , .
' Shrpment" of $5,000,000 in Gold. ""'"
"Boston, Jan. 18. With many armed
men on , guard, ashipment -of nearlv
$8,000,000' in gold from South Africa
was transferred today from the British
freighter Corfecastle to express cars
nearby.; t - The : shipment is consigned
to Ottawa,. Ont..-
TOO VVET JO EXPLO
I U Li
batteries, which was completely
"blown up." The forward compartment
battery was also damaged.
' Dense Smoke Issued from Hatches.
; Lieutenant Cooke said he' saw dense '
smoke issuing from the hatches of the
E-2 following the explosion. The smoke ,
was yellowish brown in color, he said.
a bb vummanaer aia not notice any dis-
tinctive odor about the smoke, he said. 1
ontil some time later, when it seemed
like the fumes given off - by torpedo
wren jhfis atter tneir immersion in
salt water. . Torch pots are small ves
sels ftded with a chemical which are
attached to the rear part of torpedoes
when they are launched and the smoke
from them . permit the submarine to
follow the-course of the shot.
V Fifteen Men Were Aboard.
The witness said six of the enlisted
men were aboard at the time of the
explosion.- He. thought about nine
civilian workers were inside with them.
Most of the enlisted men were electri
cians, he said, and were engaged in
discharging through a rheostat the
Edison nickel batteries with which the
submarine was equipped. Lieutenant
Cooke explained that the ventilating
system of the Edison batteries allows
the gas generated in each cell to pass
out through a trap. There is no ven
tilation over the surface of the elec
trolyte, a chemical compound In the
cells, he said.
: ' The court adjourned to meet tomor
row morning at the . naval hospital,
where depositions from men injured in
; the explosion will be taken.
SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTION
-V IN PRICE OF ARMOR PLATE.
If Congress Adopts Administration's
il Proposed Five Year Programme.
Washington, Jan. 18. Substantial
reduction in ' the price of armor date
was . promised the senate naval com- .
mittee today by E. G. Grace, presi
dent of the Bethlehem Steel company, .
if. congress would adopt the admin
istration's - proposed - five year naval
building programme. Mr. Grace was
testifying at a -. hearing . on Senator
Tillman's bill to provide for. a govern- -ment
armor factory.
"We are now selling armor to one
purchaser, - the government of ; the
United States and the purchaser with
out a policy,", said he. "Adopt a pol
icy and we will meet with this com
mittee or outfaorized government of
ficials and make a price which, I am
sure, you "trtll admit is fair. We are
willing to take almost any price to
prevent -the government from erecting
its own' Elsnt and making ' us throw
away the $7,100,000 we' have invested
in this highly specialized business."
Mr. Grace produced records to show
that the total cost of producing ar
mor plate -was $315 a ton. if his plant
was operated at full capacity,- but that .
it was operated at only one-third ca- j
pacity, bringing the cost to $499. The
government pays $425 a ton. Under'
the administration's building pro- -gramme.
Mr. Grace said, his plant
would be run at two-thirds capacitv,
making the cost $367. He declared the
business now was paying only 1 3-4
per cent. . on the investment without
any provisions for repayment of cap
ital invested. - Protesting against
charges that private., manufacturers
gouge the government, he said:
:We are now able to get almost any
price we ask from European ' govern
ments for munitions products.' Yet
we have, not increased one cent "the
price charged this government for
anything. I think it unfair that it
should; always be suggested , that- wa '
are continually trying to get the bet
ter of this government." ... .- .
BILL WOULD STOP -vV
ABSORPTION OF RAILROADS.
Introduced in' the Senate By Senator
Norris of Nebraska.
Washington,- Jan.- 18." Legislation to
make it unlawful for any interstate-,
common carrier to buy the stock or
corporate, property of any other cor
poration without the consent of the In-
terstate Commerce Commission was
proposed in a bill Introduced today by
Senator Norris, republican, Nebraska. :
Officers of railroads would be made
fully i responsible to stockholders fori
losses Incurred through illegal . acts, i
Senator' Norris said "the bill was sug- '
gestcd oy testimony taken by the In- j
terstate Commerce Commission in In- i
vestigating the New . York, New Ha-
ven and Hartford and the 'Frisco and ' .
Rock-Island railroads. -. r -- - - -
AUSTRIAN3 FOUND CETTINJE
WELL KEPT AND CLEAN.
Population Peaceful and Suffering from '
-, No . Privations.. :
Berlin, Jan. 18 (by wireless to Say- '
ville). Austro-Hungarian troops who
entered Cettlnje found the town well;
kept and clean and the population'
peaceful, friendly and suffering from
no privations, says an Overseas News
agency announcement today. Th
Austrian officers received offers cf
houses of residents as quarters,- adds
the news agency, which declares that
the relations between the. population
and the troops were generally excel
lent. .. - .... ..
Prohibition Bill in Maryland Legis!a-
j ' . ' .- turs. " --.
1 Annapois. Ml, Jan. 18-A statewHs
prohibition bill, prepared by the Am -Saloon
league, was introduced in tr.
I legislature today. It provides for &
vote throughout the entire state on. th
liquor traffiA Question.
