FINANCIAL EDITION
Cuentng
ilrtiger
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA vol. H-NO. 109
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY" 1J), 101G.
OonitioiiT, 1010, t Tim Pustto Ltmr.n Commnt.
PRICE ONE CENT
I
ii
KAISERATNISH;
,fAR BOARD OF
ALLIES MEETS
1
presence in Balkans Fore-
shadows Drive on Sa-
lonica xaaao
f,BRlAND AT COUNCIL
Situation in Greece Causes
Great Anxiety to liiiuenio
Statesmen
BERLIN, Jan. 19.
rnror William hna gono to tho Bal-
W Ills pr&senco Is taken aa Ihe prelude
to a drive ubiiiv "'"
A historic meetlnir between tho Kaiser
mk King Ferdinand lins Just taken placo
in Nlsh, tho former wnr capital of Serbia.
The monnrchs greeted each other vcrj
.i .!.. on.1 nflorwnnl thn German
Emperor revlowcd Bulgarian troops
(This wns tho Kaiser's first visit to the
Balkan theatre of war and the first trip
r . M.4 in nnv frnnt Aincn he rocov-
red from his recent Indisposition Tho
!Tuton-Bulgar offensive against the Al
lies, It Is believed, was thoroughly dis
closed. i After the ceremonies In Nlah tho Ger
man Emperor bestowed a Held marshal's
fcaton on tho Bulgarian monarch and tho
utter appointed the Kaiser honorary
ment. the crack regiment o tho Bulga
rian army.
RALLIES' WAlt COUNCIL
F PLAN BALKAN ACTIOA
LONDON, Jan. 10.
m. iiina War Council met hero to-
iUD ......... " - -
day with tho air mil of rumors of Im
nnrtant dovelonments In tho Balkans.
A few hours before tho conference be
gan the ForeIgnr Offlco Issued a state
ment discrediting tho German report
r that the Allies navo uouvurvu m-iium
' ultimatum to Greece. It was Btatcd that
German reports oi new aoveiopmciuM in
nr.M nro "believed" to bo untrue.
Dlipatchcs from Rotterdam and from
".VtHH.. flttfna vannrtort n rnvnlutlonnrv
i.Vtl..M ..,.., ..mntif nn fnnf In tlrPOO
f an! King Constantino's government in
j ctroe fresh reports of allied troop land
14 ii&f and with them a renewal of the
Attack on Salonlca. Is about to begfn.
h.l- lm.i ....... AAitnoll la ialial.ri tn
f'Jure Wen summoned lntosslon within
i$lrthe last -hours. Thcflrst tntlmn-
,0tl that ft meeting was to oe neiu wuuy
Mi tho arrival In London of tho French
ea-Im.. vlntniAi. Alatl,ln Tlrlnnri. The
r fact that tho French Premier's pren-
:e was aesircu jmucatcu uii jjuuiii-ui
.Hah nf Tna fimtt ItlltinplnnPC. AH
Kl as tho military situation, are. to bo
discussed.
SpScarecly any press dispatches from
:Ainens nave neon pnsaen oy me urecs
rnn In 4hn 1nnf tlirnft lliV4 nnrl tllll
- -ft l.in In .nn.MfiMil nmlnftlla In vleitr
of the German reports. London news-l.T-pers
complain that they have been un-
ftwe lu eL rej)jiea iu iucrica uuuiusauu
;)UL German newspapers hint at a pos
sible revolution headed by former Premier
tVenlzelos. and express doubt as to
lrhtllAl. Tfltio Pniiatontlna ivlll linira 4n
upport of the Greek army In a real
.tUSlfl.
A Tlall. V-AM rt kt.AHn JI..ha1 lx.ln
:1he; that the Greek Government Ib about
j.i. ... . . . .
u ucctaro inariiai law to puL nn ena lo
Vilsngerous rumors" was permitted to
paa by tho Greek censor.
i-...w(,u , uiu tiHcuvtuiia u; cahiciiiici
'Vcntz-tloa, leader of tho Greek party that
p..v.u vitioft iiarv-UJiiaiiui. in iiiu wui
( mo ojuo ui ino Aiues. venizeios ana
Wt followers did not participate In tho
declarinff tho proceeding Illegal It was
VnA.l .l . A .
i ;!- tcu nuverui weeHB ago mat me
nzeloa party might refuse to accept
las results of the election, precipitating a
trials when Parliament meets next Mon-
lIURKS CHECK MUSCOVITE
OFFENSIVE IN CAUCASUS
CONSTANTINOPLE, Jan. 19.
Tlt6 RlLSvInn nfTAtinlt'ifc In tha (""n una ntta
ptt been completely checked, the Turk-
Continued on Pare Four, Column Two
THE WEATHER
y
s. or t.-a.. ..
!t" w intended to devote this space
y to an Inquiry Into the fact that the
wwmuni temperature these days Is re
w,iSt aPProlmately 8 a. m , time
---. ,..... vur irienas at me vveatner
K1M1U tall !! that h. ....1. ....... 1 ..
W nay is that Just before sunrise, or
Li? ..beftr" the sun Bets down to
jwc -with any seriousness. That ac
" for the matter scientifically, and
S vv au uul B comment on me
IHr ?'. Nature that makes It coldest
tsf&J . .? tlra8 when ytm ana we and
E?t,iy Others haVa tn uhllfr h mlnilnwB
IJw.11811. th8 nre la not t B amiss. We
iC" ""' to write at length on the sub--.
but Bill Murphy, who works (7) on
f ZL ?y dek," handed us this and sug-
fUd it mlirht ln.nl.. ..- . H.I.V.
. '- -o ,, a uq lu BUU4CW11U5
UaT,?RDAir Jan- "--The der
"M. mllitury authorities are encour
3M utrman soldiers to wear beards
V p them warm.
IShtntVw?'wera J"41 'noplrlng over It
I.S,1. Lfdy Reporter did It all for us.
rsvf.7 V ' " " extmimea, juvvlng- looked
rL?"' shoulder, "these Germans will
p b imclentr K ' ' WY' 3U3t
rariPihi!adelP,hia a,td vicinity
o Th,r. Tridav; moderate winds
. ...y vcn ,v
10ST AND POUND
utorSlELoi3un,1 ftwnooo oa
J iiW,?,.u??- 19W. vanity u Uewtrd.
. rfHSwfc JW. Catoitr. TilUvu-Stratfart).
nrif'iV.JVaA LoeMsX, eu Monday, I
M5i?"a fer mum unt. Call Wfl-
'ajtOr mvirn to WS S. ttu VI
l s"tfi.fj4ivfqqtt It. U an it
MONTENEGRO REJECTS
AUSTRIAN PEACE TERMS
LONDON, Jan. 10.
Official announcement was made today nt the French Emhassy that
peace ncfrollntions between Austria nnd Montenepro have been broken oft.
Austria s conditions were found jnacceptable by the Montenegrin
Gove nment. Kins Nicholas will ro to Italy. y Montenegrin
A break in tho peace negotiations between Austria nnd Montenegro
also comes in an unconfirmed wireless report from Rome today. The dis
patch said that reports of the surrender of the Montenegrin nrmv woro
"premature."
MEXICAN BANDITS
SEIZE SEVEN U. S.
ENLISTED MEN
Cowboys and Cavalrymen
Rushed in Pursuit of
Outlaws
VILLA'S DEATH DECREED
Soldiers Begin Search for
Chieftain Carranza
Determined
DOUGLAS, Ariz. Jan 19 A telephone
meseago today from Hnchlta brought the
Information that a band of Mexican
bandits had captured soven enlisted mon
of the 7th United Slntes Cavalry near
Boylowclls, N. M. Dojlcwclls Is 14 miles
from Hachlta.
The telephono message stated that sev
eral coubo.vs had already started In pur
suit of tho bandits. Fifty cavalrymen
were aUo Bent In pursuit
Tho telephone message came from a
cowboy named Doollttlo, who said that
ho had witnessed the light between the
soldiers and tho Mexicans.
KL PASO, Tex., Jan 19 "Villa must
die!"
This Is tho decree of Carranz-j. A great
bandit hunt I now tinder ua to run
down tho former lion of tho Mexican rev
olution and his band. Carranza followers
hao vowed they will not rest until Villa
Is dead ami hli body on public view, to
gether with those of Itodrlqucz, Bacca
VallCB, Almeida and other bandit chief
tains nlrcady executot".
A picked forco of fearless Carranza sol
diers has been charged with tho taBk of
capturing Villa. They will pursue him
night and duy through the m intalns of
Chihuahua and Durnnso. Villa Is said
to have taken retugo In the rugged re
treats of tho latter Strte Ho hopes to
escape death by keeping to his old
haunts.
General Carranza's death order has
'" tmif '-''" ofhorjor Into the hearts
of JleilMmbandltST-Tlia publk: display
of tho corpses of outlaws to show tho
fate of tho lawless has drivon tho bandits
farther Into the mountains today.
"With the reported murder of two more
Amerlcnna near Torreon still unconfirmed
Carranza officials In Juarez were confi
dent that the campalgn'of extermination
would satisfactorily avenge tho slaugh
ter of 18 Americans at Santa Ysabel.
Enrique CIsneros, a Vlillsta leader, will
be tho next to die. After he Is shot here
or at Chihuahua City his corpse will be
put on public vlowj
MEXICO CITY, Jan. 19. Labor leaders
have notified the Carranza otllclals hero
that a general strike will bo called tomor
row unless the employers pay the work
ers 15 per cnt. of tho wages In gold
Owing to this threat. General Pablo
Gonzulea today had the city placarded
with notices to vvorktngmen cautioning
them ngalnst engaging In unwarranted
strikes. Several I. W. W. agitators re
cently have bofon actively at work here
spreading dissatisfaction and Interfering
with the reconstruction efforts of Car
ranza officials.
DEMOCRATS END MEXICO
TEMPEST IN SENATE
WASHINGTON', Jan. 19.-(Admlnlstra-tlon
forces succeeded today, after the
hottest meeting of the Senate Torelgn lie
latlons Committee of this session, In keep
ing further discussion of the Mexican
situation from the Senate floor.
Not only was a majority of the com-,
mlttee lined up against reporting favor
ably any of the Intervention resolutions,
but Senator Borah was so Impressed with
the strength of tho Administration posi
tion that he announced he would not
Contlnuid on Tare Two, Column Tour
IT'S NOT QUITE SO COLD,
BUT SKATING STAYS ON
Gradual Moderation in Tem
perature, From Six to Eight
Degrees, Due Today
Steps in Cold Wave's
Sullen and Slow Retreat
Yeiterday Talay
14 20
,,.. 13 19
... 13 19
Midnight ...
1 a. m.. ...
2 a. m. . . i
J a :::::::::::::: a
I i S.v;:::::::;.'i.
l::S:::::::::::::
'9 a. m 16 19
10 a. m 19 ;
11 Jg s5
19 nnnn ..... 10 '
1 p, m 22
28
a ., ,Jn An 41.K Ilia...
There Is " "K"1 " !
hUko" Cretk from lh lower dam lu
Kltunnoaw tt, Cutuie Ike, Con.
.o"r. Huntm l'rk and WootUlde
l'atk IaVe.
' Skating continues In this city and Its
suburbs despite the rls? In Umperature
h ofllclal thermometer registered 17 de
erees at 8 o'clock, eight degrees warmer
fhan It .was at the same hour yesterday
ThT lowest temprature today was 18
Lgrees at 7 o-clock. and the highest
was 19 ftt S o'clock.
There will b0 sradual moderation. In
temperature today, the average betas
froaVl i0 ,sUt de8S,es warmer than It
was yestelsy according to Forecaster
"" vv. .tJ ihara Warn mi lilwU .
BllSS. f i -v v 4i wun
perjure auyvero a the untty, An4
that mere n ' f,um w
lB W""
A. S. L. SHIELDS,
NOTED ATTORNEY,
DIES ATHIS HOME
Famous Lawyer Succumbs
After Illness of Two
Months
WON MANY BIG BATTLES
Defended Quay and Took Part
in Famous Capitol and
Cotton Cases
'Sharp as Philadelphia
Lawyer," Shields' Record
His shrewdness helped to keep
alive term, "Sharp ns a Philadel
phia lawyer."
Conducted defense in more than
300 homicide cases, winning most
of them, including Emma Bickcll
case.
Was counsel for United States
Senator Quay in famous People's
Bank fraud, 1898.
Counsel for defense in revenue
stamp counterfeiting conspiracy,
1800,
Ono of counsel for defense in
Capitol scandal.
Counsel for defense in Storey
cotton swindle.
Won largest verdict for personal
damages ever awarded by State
courts and largest single check
(more than $2,000,000) ever return
ed to a contractor.
Won awards of millions of dol
lars in will litigation.
"Al" Shields Is dead
The noted law j or who gilncd natlonnl
prominence through his connection with
many famous cases died this morning at
hli home. 211 North 33d street. Ills death
was duo to heart disease, from which he
Buffered' far the last twe montliB. At h.s
bedsldo were his niece, Mrs I'.. Shields
Webster, and his physician. Dr. Herbert
Carpenter.
The pnqslng of A S. L Shields removes
a figure prominent In tho local courts for
the last 30 years. Almost from the out
ret of Ills career he wns known as "Al"
because he seemed to be constantly in
the public eye. Ills square-set Jaw, curled
mustache and broad shoulders were nn
almost dally sight in ono courtroom or
tho other
In addition to marked, ability he had
tho greatest confidence In his skill to
overcome obstacles. Often this wai un
doubtedly Inspired by the tremendous
power behind him
He was the favorite counsel of tho Or
ganization even from tho time of United
States Senator Quay, whom ho defended
when tho famous leader was charged
with misappropriating State funds.
Tew witnesses on the other side could
withstand Shields' withering nre, nnd
his generalship and tenacity wero often
responsible for turning what appeared to
bo suro defeat Into victory
His nttnek varied .Sometime? he was
tho suave, smooth attorney who fenced
with mo3t delicate language Again he
was tho thundering Inquisitor who made
the witness tremble as the consequences
of false testimony were pictured by the
fluent counsel He was a skilled orator
and word-painter and his pictures of
broken homes and shadowed firesides. In
troduced to suit the situation, often
brought tears to those who crowded the
courtroom. This usually carried his case
with the Jury.
When Quay placed the stamp of ap
proval upon Mr. Shields his fortune was
assured. He represented the McNIchol
company when It brought suit against the
city In the filtration contracts and was
Continued on I'ace RTrn, Column Two
NICOLA RESPINGE LE
0FFERTE AUSTRIACHE
Le Condizioni di Pace Trovate
Inaccettabili II Vecchio Re
Andra' in Italia
Vn telegramma da Londra dice che al
I'Ambasclata francese e" stato annunclato
ufflclalmente cha le trattatlvo dl pace
guV Intavolato tra 1'Austrla ed II Monte
negro Bono state troncate, X condlilunl
ohe l'Austrla aveva messo per la pace
sono state trovate dal governo monte
negrlno Inaccettabili. II re Nicola si
rechera' In Italia, E' da notare che Jn
questl glornl al parlava ron Inslstema di
tradlmento da parte del Montenegro e dl
un accordo che sarebbe stato gla ftrmato
tra Austria e Montenegro da un mese fa,
per cul 1 Montenegro avrebbe fatto solo
una flnta reslstenza alio forze aus
triache. Quento e.' falso
C1I alleatl hanno sbarcato truppd anche
a Corlnto, che e'all'i-iboccatura del
Canale di Corlnto, oltre che nelle vlcl
nanxa del PIreo, e si dice che hanno anche
mandato un ultimatuin am Grecla perche.'
questa dla I pssaportl al rappresentantl
diplomatic! degli Impcri central!, delta
Uulgarta e della Turchla.
(Legsere In 17a paglna le ulUme e piu'
dettagllate notlzie sulla guerri, in itall
a no.)
NOTED TIUNSLATOR A SUICIDE
Mrs. Dora K. Ranous Inhales Gas Be
cause of 111 Health
NEW YORK. Jan Is Suffering from HI
health, Mrs Dora K. Ranous, one of the
editors of the Century Magazine, killed
herself today by Inhaling Illuminating
gas. She was a native of Asbfteld, Mass.,
and had traoslted scores of books from
the French' "Julian.
Urs, Ry sottrlbuted to Appleton's
Annual Oaedla And the Criterion
mgasiui
NOTED LAWYER
"Al" Shields in n
"COME KISS PONTIUS,"
MAYOR "BILLY" RIDDLE
SAYS TO HIS WIFE NOW
Atlantic City's Millionaire Ex
ecutive Accepts Title of Pi
InttVThat Stough
Gave Ilimv
WILL SHUN TABERNACLE
MAYOR WILLIAM KIDDLE
When "nlllj" Riddle. Atlantic CItj's
millionaire Mnjor, left his home In Chel
sea this morning to come to Philadelphia
ho turned to Mis. Riddle nnd Inquired:
"Don't you want to kiss Fontlus good
by?" Tho Maor, telling about It this after
noon, said, triumphantly:
"She kissed me."
Tint was the way he answered the
question ns to what he thought of Evan
gelist Stoueh's comparing him to P. Pi
late Major Riddle, after relating that little
Incident, vas in a better humor. Before
he sat down for tho Interview ho wasn't In
a good humor at all. That la easily under
stood, though, for tho talking was done
In the anteroom of Dr. Joseph Pettlt's of
fice, on the 10th rtoor of the Land Title
Building, nnd the Major had Just gone
through a painful half hour In the interest
of his teeth.
The .Major announced that he was
pretty nearly tired of talking about
Stough. And he stated definitely that he
was not going to hear him In the taber
nacleat least not alone.
"Why?" he was asked.
"I don't want to be trapped," he an
swered. "You refer to the experience of Mayor
Donnelly, of Trenton.
"Exactly, You" can't tell wlmt the
Stough crowd will do If they get jou In
that tabernacle. If I do make up my
mind to eo. vou can bet I'll have a guard.
Maybe Chief Woodruff will" assign four
or live met) to take care of .mo. If he
promises to go along, I may Change my
mind and go some night. Hut not alone,
jou may be assured."
The Major's lack of sjinpathy for"
Evangelist Stough Is honest. He Isn't
so much against Stough as he Is against
btough's backers. He told a story to Il
lustrate this, too The Incident also hap
pened yesterday,
"The people, who are running hls cam
paign make me sick." he said. They
seem to have absolutely no human sjm
pathy. Honestly, I can't understand
them. To all the poverty and suffering
there Is to be met with every day In At
lantic City they shut their eyes and popr
out money on a campalgu like this " (The
Mayor wouldn't saj whether he thought
the campaign would have a general re
sult for good or til, and quoted the old
saj Ing about "so much good In the worst
Continued oa l'aie Seven, Column live
EDITOR'S WIFE DIES
Mrs. Mary Gertrude Dwyer Succumbs
to Pneumonia at Home
Here
Mrs Mary Gertrude Dwjer. wife of
John P Dwyer, managing editor of the
Philadelphia Record, died today at her
home, 114$ North 63d street Death was
due to pneumonia Mr. Dwjer had been
1U 4r about a week.
Besides her husband, Mrs, Dwjer U
survived by a daughter and four sons.
Mr and Mrs. Dwyer -wertu, married !
Renovo. Pa., in 1SS3. Thoy bjb ta thuj
flty 3 years and hTa jiyed here
ace. She was SO years old.
WHO DIED TODAY
riioto by nelly & Way.
chainctcristic attitude.
NEW 15-STORY HOTEL
FOR PHILADELPHIA;
TO COST $1,500,000
New York Syndicate Backing
Project to Erect 400-Room
Hostelry in Central Sec
tion of City
DETAILS KEPT SECRET
A 1,MO,000 hotel of IS stories will be
erected In the central portion of the cltv
by n, sjndlcato this rail. It was announced
todny.
The hotel, which vvlllba situated on a
site already purchased," la belnrvflnanced
by a syndicate, of Now Yoik financiers,
It was said Thn authority for the an
nouncement Is Frederick Webber, ono of
tho bost-knonn iirchltocts in the city,
who has offices In the Morris Building.
Tho plant are drawn but will not bo
filed with tho building Inspector until the
promoters feel assured that nil the de
tails will go through smoothly. For this
reason also the site of the proposed build
ing Is being kept a secret. Tho plot In
which tho hotel will stand measures CO
by 'iXJ feet The prlco paid was not re
vealed b'j Mr Webber.
Speculation nH to possible sites included
that of the Colonnado Hotel, at 13th and
Chestnut streets, together with tho nd
Jolnlug building on tho southwest corner.
That tho Colonnade Hotel would figure In
tho deal was tlented bj Mr. Webber.
Tho proposed hotel, at described bj- Mr
VAebber, will contain 400 rooms equipped
with everj' known modern appliance
There will bo n restaurant nttached nnd
a special heating1 and powei plant Mnnv
features, tho verj' latest In hostelry man
agement, will bo Introduced, Mr, Webber
said. The roofgardeu capping tho struc
ture will differ greatly In many respects
fiom tho conventional tjpe, he added.
The syndicate which will erect the hotel
Is composed of men who consider Phil
adelphia a promising field for additional
hotel business, Mr. Wcbbor said. He said
tho object of investing J1.WO.000 capital
here Is one of pure business. Tho project
would have been begun long before this,
he bald, but or the scarcity of steel. Th
building will have a steel framework and
will bo faced with stone, brick and Urra.
cotta.
Mr. Webber Is known throughout the
city ns a designer of apartment houses,
many of the most rashlonable )n the
city were plnnned by him. Theso In
clude the Rlttenhouse Hotel, tho Bel
gravla, at 18th and Chestnut streets; the
Coronado, at 22d and Chestnut streets.
MISSING NUN FOUND
IN BALTIMORE HOME,
POLICE ARE ADVISED
Detectives Going to Maryland
City Today to Try to Identi
fy Young Woman as Sis
ter Rita Vincent
DESCRIPTIONS TALLY
"We all hope that the young woman
found In Baltimore Is Sister Rita. The
dispatch from Baltimore is the best news
we have had since she disappeared."
Mother Superior Jgnatlus made this
statement today after hearing from the
police that Sister Rita Vincent, a novloe,
who disappeared January 5, had been
found In Baltimore. Sister Rita' was at
tached to St. Joseph's Convent at Chest
nut Hill. She vanished while a patient
at St Joseph's Villa, an Institution near
Cheltenham, where Invalid nuns are
treated.
A detective will be sent to Baltimore
today by Captain of Detectives Cameron.
The Baltimore police telegraphed to Cap
tain Cameron today that they were cer
tain that the joung woman In their cus
tody was the missing nun
Sister Rita, If tt is she, was found at a
girls' home In Baltimore yesterday by
Detective Lieutenant Dunn Earlier In
the day Captain Cameron had sent word
to Chief of Police Carter that Sister
Rita had taken a train for Baltimore
some time last Sunday from Chester.
When questioned, the young woman re
fused to say anything about herself. She
wore a blue velveteen dress, black hat
and heavy overshoes when found and
carried a portfolio Her garb tallied ex
actly with the description sent out by
the police of this city,
A telegram was sent today to. the
Sorrow of the Sea. Mission. In Baltimore,
requesting that a sister visit the youcg
woman. This miesloa U a branch of St.
Je.sepb.8 Convent.
DARBY HOUSEKEEPER, THROAT CUT,
DEAD IN BED; ROBBERY MOTIVE
A woman believed to bo Mis. Annla Davis, 45 years old a
housekeeper for William II. Collingsgrove, 117 Fein street, Darby,
was found dead in the bedroom of her employer's home today with
hei thioat cut. Accoiding to the Darby police, $120 was stolen from
the house, nnd tt is the belief of the police that robbery was the
motive ,
KELLER, ACCUSED OF TRUNK MURDER REFUSED BAIL
Edward I". Keller, necuseel of the minder of Daniel J. McNichol,
a second cousin of State Senator James P. McNichol, was refused
ball in habeas corpus proceedings bcfoie Judge Kogcrs today. Ho
was sent back to Moyamcnsing Prison, whcie he must await the
nctlon of tho Grand Juiy. McNIchol's body was found In a trunk lu
the cellar of the building formeily used by Keller as a laundry.
EMPLOYES OF CEMENT PLANT GET WAGE INCREASE
ALLENTOWN, Pa., Jan. 19. Tho 2000 employes of tho Northampton
plant of the Atlas Portland Cement Company todny were given wage Increase!
ranging from 7 to 10 per cent.
NUMBER OF MOYAMENSING PRISONERS DECREASES
Slv thousand fewer persons wore committed to MoynmcnBlng Prison dur
ing 1BIC thnn the preceding year, according; to figures Issued today by Edward
.1. l'ooley, Hprcial ngent of the Pennsylvania Prison Society. In 1914 tho
massive gate nt the South Philadelphia Institution clanked behind 23,45 per
sons, in 1915 behind 17,513.
FOUR KILLED IN EXPLOSION ON STEAMSHIP
IODII.i:, Ala, Jan. 19 Four mcmberH of the crew wero killed by nn
explosion of the Italian tank steamship Ltovttta In drydoclc hero today. A
lighted lantern Ignited oil fumes. One of those killed wns Howard Goodrich,
engineer.
The L.icvlttn wns in for repairs mtulo necessary by a fire at sea 3D days
ago off Port Arthur, Tex.
BRITAIN TO FORCE ECONOMY
LONDON, .Inn. 19. The British Government Ii preparing to take drastto
steps to foice residents of tho United Kingdom to economlzo and to relievo th
International twehango situation. President Walter Runclman, of tho Board
of Trade, Informed Commons this nfternoon.
It Is possible, Runclman announced, that. tho Government may shut out wvN
from nil English ports nrtlclca not considered strictly necessary.
The United States, It is understood, will bo tho principal sufferer if tho
Gov eminent miopia this program.
: . C
LINER RYNDAM ARRIVES AT MARGATE SAFELY
LONDON, Jan. 10. The Holland-America liner Ryndarn h(m anchored oft
Marfrilta In IL llntnflirivl rnnrlitlnn Rhn Vnnnrtnrl 1r wlnlAda Ihni nil 1. inr,
sengerB were safe nnd well.
Wl?mni7D u A in rrrC3 TjiJirnreur Tvxr a ivmn r-r t7rtm l
garrison nt Kut-cl-Amara havo been unable to make further progress because
of the "atrocious" weather. Secretary for India Chamberlain announced In tho
House of Commons this nfternoon. "When last dispatches were received here
tho Turks had been drlvin back to within six miles of Kut-el-Amara'
outer forts
T. C. DU PONT SEEKS PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION
WILMINGTON, Del. Jan. 19. That General T. Coleman du Pont, formerly
president of tho du Pont Powder Company and now heavily Interested in the
Equitable Life Assurance Society, would like n delegation sent from Delaware
to tho Republican National Convention that would placo his name before the
convention for presidential honors is the understanding of Republican machine
leaders here. A negro publication of Baltimore some time ago started a preal-'
dentlnl boom for General du Pont, who formerly took active part In Delaware
politics. While at first thn boom article was not taken seriously, It has since
been declared that tho former powder head la anxious to havo his name placet)
before the convention. '
GREEK KING GUARDS AGAINST ASSASSINATION
MILAN. Jan. 19, Fearing- assasstnntton, King Constantino of Greece hast
doubled the strength of his bodyguard and seldom appears in public, accord
Ins to private advices from Athens.
Adherents of the King- declare that emissaries of the Entente Powers are
active throughout Greece and are spending gold lavlshlj- to stir up revolutionary
outbreaks.
IMs further charged that England and France plan to take advantage,
of the turbulence arising from anti-Government uprisings to seize the capital
nnd establish a military dictatorship, so that they can use Greek military
resources for their own ends.
U. S. GRANTS WAGE INCREASE TO NAVY MECHANICS
WASHINGTON, Jan. 19, Secretary of the Navy Daniels announced today
that an Increase of B.per cent, in wages had been granted to master mechanic
employed In all or the Government's navy yards throughout the country.
ONE KILLED IN POWDER EXPLOSION AT HOPEWELL, VA,
HOPEWELL, Va Jan, 19, One man was killed and several others were
injured by an explosion In nitrating house No. 4 at the du Pont Powder Com
pany's plant here today. The dead man is Thomas F, Meehan. of Savannah,
Ga. The explosion, which was said to have been entirely accidental, was fol
lowed by fire. "Workmen in the building where the blast took place were
forced to flee for their lives from acid gas, which flooded the structure.
GERMANY PLANS TO WIN LATIN-AMERICAN TRADE
HAMBURG, Jan. 19. The Ibero-Amerlcan Society, the object of whlok
is to foster closer relations with South and Central America, Spain mU
Portugal, has Just been formed here. The president is Doctor Schardel an
the vice president is Doctor Hoi. Other charter members are Dr. JL. Asenjo,
Professor Brauer, Dr. T. L. Lorenz and
PREDICTS SEIZURE OF CANADA IF GERMANY TRIUMPHS
OTTAWA, Jan, 19 James Lougheed, Government leader in the Seiate,
declared In a speech in the upper house of Parliament; that Germany w
known to desire possession of Canada as a prize of war, should she'be vic
torious in the present conflict. Some Canadians, he said, could not realise that
Canada was in as great jeopardy as Great Biltaln or any of her allies.
Senator Lougheed asserted that German spies had compiled and filed la the
archives of their Government more complete Information upon the natural aad
developed resources of Canada than possessed by the Dominion Government,
lie expressed belief that Germans living In the United States would be gfaul to
aid In the capture of Canada. '
TURK GUNS DESTROY BRITISH MONITOR ON TIGJU8
CONSTANTINOPLE, Jan. 19. A War Office communication says: "Oa
the Tigris our artillery destroyed art enemy monitor which bad been sighted in
the region of Sheik Saad.
"In the Caucasus our troops aro offering- heroic resistance to the attack
which the enemy is carrying out with superior forces against our position be
tween the A rasa and Arasld. This resistance permits the secure co-cerattoM
of the troopa on our wings with those on the centre, despite violent a4 ooa
tlnuous snowstorms.
ITALIAN LOSSES IN WAK, 1W,5
ROME, Jan, 19. A semiomclal statement giva out by Hut ITar Oftlc "ujt
censored give the teal Italian, loasen p to Dctnber 31 at 1H0, distributed
u pilaws: Ttt'iJy80- wounded. W; aUlox, 50e; prlvaa. 4M4.
1
Doctor Eddelbuetter.
A
t
