t i' T ! T ''
Mr-' -iw'WIJlhhm.
r '
THK IKIHIEK ti. ait ftMrM
J niritlnni.lht htlsfg resnN. r
!h ijY urn rpnsMcnt with clrtic J
afl, :. Hooks open In lii9wtlon.
.J. .J.
.j, .j. .j. .j. .j. .j. 4. .j
Ml.:-''.' -
(?WrtiHr fair and bIMMIjt
nri .J. J J - J J
Kjj,,,;
gXRKLr tiKrantratN-ittt,
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 101G.
0MP COPY-ONE CENT.
tAILY rVULW LKDQKR-lUi.
HEATH OF MKS. KMZAIIETH JtAM
SEr. ELECTED STATE OROANIZEK.
SI.K1HTLY WARMER.
Ipnblti:
,tl.l J. 1L iJlT, IIIUIJI
'TherO's Mfcxlco and Europe
' Anil tho growing trndo In leather
)i i And with all this to discuss,
Wo still talk about tho weather.
REV. BENN RESIGNS
-T
v; Pastorate of tlio Central Presbyterian
ChurchAccents n Call To
Newport, Ark,
1 Tho resignation of Hov. R. L. Donn
comes as a surprise to his many
friends, both In mid out of tho church.
It becomes cffcctlvo January 30,
when ho will leave for his now work
at Newport, Ark.
Iter. Dcnn came to this clty( In
1910; while hero ho has always been
found on tho firing lino for what he
thought was for tho welfare of his
church and the city. Ho is an earnest
student and deep thinker. His ser
mons nro always helpful and Inspir
ing. He has at different times in his
church delivered a series of .talks
that would rank well with any Chau
tauqua lectures.
He and his family will lcavo about
, February 1 for their new home. Tho
Ledger Joins wjth their many friends
In wishing them a pleasant field of
labor in his now charge.
SUCCESSFUL EUCHRE.
Mrs. Elizabeth Ilamscy died at tho
home of her daughter, Mrs. Hello
jBvnns of Aberdeen, lato Tuesday
I afternoon.
I Mrs. Ramsey resided on Forest ave-
lino in this city for a numbor of years.
A tow months ago for business rea-
jpons, alio accompanied her daughter
to Aberdeen.
Mrs. Rnmsey was a llfo long mem
ber of tho Baptist church. She Is
survived by ono daughter, Mrs. Evnns,
and ono son.
Sho leaves qulto a clrclo of friends
Funeral will bo held Thursday
morning at 10 o'clock. Interment In
Charter Oak cemetery.
TOHACC0 MARKETS.
It seems that prices on Tuesday's
sales were not to bo had.
Tho prices aro quoted as being good
and considerable tobacco was deliver
ed Tuesday.
Tho drawers had a block sale.
About 100,000 pounds was offered, the
high price being $45.
The Amazon had no sale.
Tho Liberty had no sale, but opened
Wednesday morning with 2OO',O00
pounds of tho weed on the floor. -
Tho market was reported as being
strong at the Home, Planters, Inde
pendent and Farmers. Sales closed
too lato for reports.
FOREST AVENUE PARENT-TEACH-ER
ASSOCIATION.
Tuesday evening at tho Eagles' Hall
the Ladles' Euchre Club gave another
, one of their scries of euchres. Those
who attended tho function were of the
opinion that it was the best ever giv
en by the club. Mr. Charles Rohmlller
was awarded tho first prlzo for tho
best gentleman played, while Mrs.
John Klnslcr won the premium offered
tho ladles.
Rev. C. E. Armstrong of Lexington,
will preach at tho Beasley church Sun
day morning and at tho Lawrence
' Creek church Sunday night. As this
Is a meeting of Importance, wo urge
every member to be present at each
service.
Covington reported a total of six
alarms Tuesday morning.
BR1CKSTREETS
Internal Improvement Committee of
Council ItecommendH llrlck Paw
lug For SoTcral Streets.
Tho Forest Avenuo Parent-Teacher
Assocatlon, on Friday evening, at 7:30,
at the Forest avenuo school building,
will give an entertainment consisting
of music, recitations and speeches.
All' parents .of the children , the
Board of Education and tho First Dis
trict P.-T. A. aro cordially invited to
bo present.
ENTERTAINMENT COMMITTEE.
REMOVAL NOTICE.
I am now located in tho room for
merly occupied by Mrs. M. Archdea
con at 4 West Third street, where
I will" bo pleased to see all my old
friends and customers. Phono 168. 4
J18-3t
MISS EMMA LUMAN.
. WANTED.
The address of Mrs. Ellsa Dodson,
j who formerly lived between Washing
ton and Maysllck. Any ono knowlns
it nleasc telephone this ofllcc as soon
as so38ibIe.
1915 OUR BANNER YEAR 1915
BWs wish to thank our many friends and customers for their liberal patronage for this,
wr'toflrth year in business, which has proven to be considerable beyond our anticipation, for
wMcb we aro very thaokfoL
tjfe are new looking forward to a greatly increased business the coining year and we
have installed the latest and most improved equipment for haodling your orders, which guar
antees high grade mill woik and satisfaction to all, at the best possible prices.
We are leaders in wr line.
THE MASON LUMBER COMPANY "WSSBT
a. a. Mclaughlin.
L. N, BEHAN.
Well, Folks,
We Were Sorry You ALL
Were Not Lucky
but there's another day, Washington's
Birthday. Save your Tickets.
We have just finished our inventory,
and are now ready for another year. We
have the goods to sell you, at the right
prices; our entire time and attention is
given tp the selection of goods for you;
we anticipate your wants; try to make our
store attractive to you; our working force
polite and attentive, and we cordially in
vite your patronage. We are here to do
business and have the goods and prices.
Can you find any excuse for going
elsewhere?
Let us pull together for a bigger and
better Maysville.
MIKE BRO WN
-"THE SQUJUtE DEAL MAIM"
t)on't forget that the same tickets aro good for the
second drawing on Washington's Birthday. Maybe
you'H be lucky enough to get the Maxwell.
Tuesday evening tho Internal Im
provement Commltteo of tho Maysvlllo
Council met nnd after a bit of lively
discussion recommended that tho fol
lowing streets bo paved with brick
during this year: Sutton, Lower
Market, Tlridgo and East Second, nnd
that Court street bo treated with as
phalt. This recommendation differs
with tho ono offored several months
ago by Council In that Wall and Lime
stone streets nro left out. The com
mltteo recommends that this work bo
carried out as Boon as possible. As tho
majority of tho members of the City
Council wero elected on platforms thnt
were In favor of better streets, it
seems almost a certainty that tho rec
ommendation wltl becomo an ordt
nance, and that Maysvlllo will havo
good streets.
THE WOMAN'S CLUH.
Tho Woman's Club will meet Thurs
day afternoon nt 2 o'clock In the Elks
parlors.
The meeting will bo In tho charge
of the' Educational Department.
The address will be by Miss Mary
E. Sweeney, head of the Department
of Homo Economics, State University,
Lexington. Tho subject Is "How to
Combine Pood Ynlucs for Feeding tuc
Family."
This subject should Interest the
housewife nnd heads of families. Miss
Sweeney Is a pleasant speaker and
knows her subject. Wo bespeak fof
her a good audience.
Make your arrangements to hear
this talk.
The public is cordially Invited to
be present.
WEDDING ANNOUNCED.
Tho friends and relatives of Hov. J,
T. J. Fizer are receiving invitations
to the wedding of his daughter, Miss
Carrjp Lou, to Mr. Martin Glldlsplo
Mitchell, Saturday, January 22, at
Little Rock, Ark. After tho wedding
tour tho young couple will mako their
homo Jn JJatayla,.JTcnn., where' Mr,
Mitchell Is engaged In the grain busi
ness, Ilev. Mr. Fizer is a brother of
Patrolman Dudloy Fizer. Ho preached
in Bracken and Mason counties, filling
some of the best appointments in tho
Kentucky Conference.
COUNTY COUKT.
An inventory and aiipraiscment of
tho personal estate of Patrick Slat
tery, deceased, was produced in court
and after duo examination of same
was ordered filed and recorded.
Tho salo bill of the estate of William
Brown, deceased, was produced in-
court and ordered filed and recorded.
Mrs. Mary Slattory was appointed
administratrix of tho estate of Edward
Slattery, deceased, with John Slattery
as surety on bond. Bond approved
and oath taken.
CONGESTED
Aro tho C. Ss 0. Yards At Itussell,
Trains Ilcing Blocked As Far
East Ah Ashland.
Tho C. & O. railroad yards in tho
Itussell division aro badly congested
with cars and last week trains woro
blocked off from onterlng the yards'
as far east as Ashland. Tho yard men
are having troubles of their own, to
keep tho cars going. Threo roltef
crows wero put on Saturday to han
die tho congestion. Ono train passed
Ashland at 3 p. in., and after being
held up, finally got into tho yards at
midnight. Saturday sixteen trains
woro held back and Sunday the lino
was crowded with trains waiting an
opportunity to got into Russell. Last
Friday night there wero 750 cara of
coal at Shelby and 1,800 cars at Lpgan
waiting to bo moved westward.
FUNERAL OF CHARLES E. LEWIS.
.BARGAINS FOR CHRISTMAS
U, SWKKT OKAN8E8 15 DOZEN; LEMONS lie WZXlij NIXKf) -WIS
IK raJNi mM VC CONFKCTIUMCM'M SUflAK. UT Ug MAY
BWK WKKKY IAKLY. , i Km .JtjaR
Tho funoral of tho lato Charles E.
Lewis was held Wednesday morning
from his homo on Forest avenue in
the Fifth ward, being conducted by
Rev. A. F. Stahl of tho Christian
church. Those who accompanied the
remains hero wero Mr. and Mrs. J. M.
Adklus, Wheeling, W. Vn.; Mrs. Al-
tprf Young, Charleston, W. Vn.; Mr.
Jonathan Lewis and son, Arloo, W.
Vu., and Robert Lewis, aalllpolls, 0.
HUMANE SOCIETY 31EETIN0.
Tho roKulur quarterly mooting of
tho Mason County Ilumano Society
will bo held Thursday evening at 7:30
o'clock. Tho members and friends nro
urged to be present-
MRS, 0. II. BISHOP, Secretary.
MAIL (IKDERS l'KOJIPTLY FILLED,
For all grades of whiskies asd.
Miss Llda K. dardnor of Carlisle,
w.olI known in Maysvlllo and Mason
county educational circles, has been
nppolntcd by Hon. V. O. ailborf, Stnto
Superintendent of Public Instruction,
as Stato Organizer of School Improve
ment Leagues. Miss Gardner, who Is
County School Superintendent of
Nicholas county, linn organized sev
eral school leagues throughout tho
state during tho Inst two years nnd Is
prominent in educational work.
RIYER CONTINUES TO FALL.
Tho river, which has been nt a very
high stngo nt this point for tho last
several days, continues to fall, nl
though vorV slowly. The cold wave
thnt struck the Ohio valley Is some
what moderating nnd this Is given ns
tho reason for tho slow droinln tho
water. However, the weather fore
casters say that tho danger of n Hood
stago Is pastr
.HILMONS.IIAM.
Lottie F. Millions,, nged 17, of Fox
port, Fleming county, nnd William A
Ham, aged 24, of Lewis county, so
cured a marrlago IIcciibo hero Tues
day and wore married In the County
Clerk's ofllco by County Judge W. H.
Rico.
ATTENTION ELKS
Regular meeting of tho B. P. O.
Elks this evening at 7 o'clock. A
Full attendanco desired.
C. E. OKISEU E. R
W. R. Smith. Secretary.
FOR SALE.
S. C. R. I. Red and Golden Lnccd
Wynndotto Cockerels. Eggs for hatch
ing. Satisfaction guaranteed. S. H.
Mitchell, Maysllck, Ky.
.Mr. Harry Robinson of Hlllsboro, O.,
was in Maysville Tuesday shaking
linnds with hi? ninny friends.
Dr. J. R. Cooper returned to Cin
cinnati Monday after spending Sun
day In this city.
Mr. Trumbo Standago of Fleming
county, was In this city Tuesday on
business. ,
Mr. nnd Mrs. E. M. Howe of Ellza
vllle, wero In this city shopping Tuesday.
Tho mercury registered 7 degrees
above zero Wednesday morning on tho
government thermometer. This Is 10
degrees wnrmor than on tho two pre
vious mornings, nnd tho change, al
though slight, Is probably a forerun
ner pt milder weather, which will bo
good nows to tho traveling public.
So far no real suffering has been re
potted In Maysvlllo ns tho City Mission
is Investigating nil' cases reported
nnd Is giving clothing, food and conl
to thoso In need.
Several farmers, driving In their to
bacco to tho local houses, havo been
almost frozen to death, but recuperate
after arriving hero.
WANTED, '
Young Indies to train for nurses.
Ago 18 to 35 years. Three year
course. Board, room and laundry nnd
allowance. Graduates eligible to
stato registration. Address Superin
tendent of Hayswood Hospital.
Our prlco this week for buttcrfat,
32 cents Maysvlllo; 1G cents per gallon
for sweet milk. Bring it In any day,
any time of tho day, and receive your
check promptly.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CREAMERY.
Sweet Oranges
Special 20c dozen.
And the best New Orleans Molasses
S Maysville at 65c per gallon.
in
107 West Second Sircct.
Phone 20.
Mr. W. 11, Colvln was In this city Mr R. K Chambers of Sardls, Was
Tuesday on business. n Maysvlllo vlnltor Tuesday.
I EVERYBODY'S DOING
Covgh, Sneeje, Head Stopped Up, Nose and Eyes
n Red, Headache, Sore Throat.
n
m
m
m
IT'S GRIP!
We Can Sell You a SURE CVRE
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
IT I
a
Mr W. W. Hocaday of Carlisle, was
hero Tuesday visiting relatives.
Mr. John E. Wolf of Dover, Vvns n
visitor to Maysvlllo Tuesday.
The Home of Quality Clothes
OVERCOAT SALE!
A once yearly event involving super values in the season's best sellers. This
is ideal Overcoat weather and we are disposing cf all our overcoats. A diversity
ot types: single and double breasted models, in medium, form fitting and box
back effects. All sizes. This is the best opportunity. A purchase now is a
saving later.
We offer the remainder of our stock of Mackinaw Coats at a material re
duction in price. They are warm and "comfy" these winter days. Economy,
Service and Good Looks are combined in these good coats.
We carry the best makes of Gum Overshoes and Arctics.
3D EilSOIlSTG-EliR, cSc GO.
HUNT'S SALE OF UNDERMUSUNS
For twenty ycarx we have been holding Underwear sales, and this our twenty-first sale, has benefited from nil our experi
ence with tin other twenty. If it means success to search the market until wo found exceptional quality in $1 Nightgowns,
$1M: Petticoats, 2iic and 50c Corset Covers and Drawers, besides countless other values, this sale will be not an ordinary suc
cess but a pre-eminent one.
Quantities of new f0c to $2 nightgowns from the very simple to the most elaborate sort.
Petticoats with deep flounces, with nnrrow flounces, with no flounces, just a scalloped edge. Prices 50c to $3.
Envelop chemise, circular and Irnbella drawers, corset covers of all sorts from 25c to $1, all cut for the 191G silhouette.
New garments just, unpacked within tho week. It is useless to attempt details with' a stock so vnricd. It is only by seeing
tho dainty luce and embroidery, by "feeling" tho soft quality of batiste nnd nninsook that you can get an adequate idea of
all this "lingerie loveliness." Early comers get the choice, you know the adage about laggards. Shall we, will wo expect
you "Wednesday nt 0 a. in.
$25 Suits $15. Every detail finished ns suits of $25 quality should be. Black, colors, plain and fur'trimmed.
$12ll! Coats $8VL. ChcviQt, whipcord, serge, zibeline, mixtures. Late season, New York purchase.
Our furs are few but choice. To completely clear tho stook wc havo reduced tho prices 'd3Wo, on two children's sets
50r. Bargains couldn't be more timely with fur weather just nrrived. A large lino of knit goods reduced to Half Price.
Sweaters, hats, shawls nnd storm veils, countless other bargains invite you to come. in.
Mr. George W, Davis of Fleming
county, was In this city Tuesday on
business.
There uro more than 900,000 par
tially or wholly deaf persons In London.
Gas was first used to Illuminate In
1702, and first used In Now York In
1827.
A cnndlo burning steadily for two
days releases energy equal to one
horso power.
TAKING STOCKj
but there are lots of goods that we would just as sell you at
the price rather than write them in our Inventory Book at cost J
or below.
You can get some bargains in Coats and Suits this week. S
If your Shoes need repairing better visit our SHOE HOSPI- J
TAL.
A pair of rubber heels will save many a slip. Put on while 5
you wait, 50c.
"1
,3K
V.J
liquors. uur prices sro, nnt. urer
