4
»»CTB"WW 'j%
MtaBMRf Hl.t"**
VOLUME XXXVII.
1
TO REVOLUTIONIZE
BUSINESS METHODS
IMPLEMENT MANUFACTURERS
WILL REFUSE TO FINANCE
I LOCAL DEALERS.
CASH BASIS OF AUTO COMPANIES
TO BE FOLLOWED IN OTHER
LINES.
That a revolution in the manner of
doing business throughout the country
will confront the people in the near
future, is the opinion of F. H. Retzlaff,
who returned last Saturday from the
Twin Cities, where he had attended a
meeting of the State Implement Dealers
Association. Mr. Retzlaff attended the
meeting of the national federation at
Chicago last October as a delegate from
Minnesota and at last week's meeting
submitted his report.
The main topic under discussion was
the manner in which the implement
business, from a manufacturer's stand
point, is being conducted today. More
farm paper is handled by this class of
business than any other and the manu
facturers have come to the point where
they will demand hereafter that farm
tools be sold for cash or that the local
banks finance the business of the dealer
who accepts notes in lieu of cash. It
was stated by representatives of manu
facturers at the meeting that it requires
three times as much capital to finance
the local dealer as it does to finance
the manufacturing plant itself.
Heretofore paper has been taken by
the manufacturers from farmers pur
chasing tools to till the soil, but eastern
tranks are becoming overloaded with this
class of security and in some cases have
Tefused to relieve the manufacturer from
this sort of paper.
Another thing that has had a tendency
to open the eyes of the manufacturers is
the immense success made by the manu
facturers ol automobiles. It has been
one of the strict rules of automobile
manufacturers to sell for cash only and
this has brought rich returns in the shape
of dividends. While automobiles have
been and are being bought on time from
local dealers, the manufacturer runs no
risk whatever and handles no paper.
If the dealer wants to accept a farmer's
note for a machine, that is his business,
but the machine, is paid for by the
dealer before leaving the hands of the
transportation company.
Many of the implement manufacturers
have branched out into the automobile
manufacturing business and their eyes
have been opened thereby. They have
found that a farmer will give his note
for the purchase of a sulky plow or a
fanning-mill, taking two and three years
in which to pay for it, and then extend the
note if he feels like it. This paper under
present business methods had to be
carried by the dealer, who in turn gave
his personal note to the manufacturer.
While the local dealer assumed some
risk, it was the manufacturer who had to
carry the load. But the purchase of
an automobile the paper must be good
at a local bank, the dealers get his
money and the whole transaction is
practically made upon a cash basis.
Implement manufacturers figure that
they are financing the auto manufactur
ers' business in an indirect way. They
extend credit to the farmer to purchase
tools in order to prepare the soil and
harvest the crop and then the farmer
turns around and lets the manufacturer
hold the sack for awhile by investing the
proceeds derived from the crop in an
automobile.
It is the belief of Mr. Retzlaff that the
entire method of doing business will be
revolutionized by the large manufac
turers. Local banks will have to take
care of local paper and dealers will
practically ha\e to pay cash before
goods are removed from the freight office.
No doubt this will have a tendency to
keep the man who can not pay for both
a car and his farm implements from
spending money for the unnecessary
machine, useful tho it may be to him.
FIRE DESTROYS OLD LANDMARK.
The farm house on the Benj. Juni
property, near the Alwin bridge across
the Cottonwood river, was totally de
stroyed by fire Tuesday evening of last
week. The property is rented by
mann Nagel, who with his family occu
pied the place. Tuesday evening, short
ly before 8 o'clock, while Mr. and Mrs.
Nagel were at the barns attending to the
stock for the evening, Mrs. Nagel's
sister discovered a blaze in the kitchen
and at once ran out to call her sister and
I J&fe. Nagel. By the time they reached
the house, however, the flames had
gained such headway that it was
im-SHORT
possible to save the structure and only a
few articles of furniture and wearing
apparel such as could be hastily gathered
were Carried to safety.
The high wind of Tuesday night aided
the flames in their destructive fury
and this and the cold added to the dis
comfiture of the family. They all found
shelter at the home of Carl Nagel about
a mile away. The building was insured
for a small amount, but the contents were
not and Mr. Nagel has suffered a con
siderable loss.
The structure is one of the old land
marks of New Ulm and vicinity. It was
erected out of logs hewn along the
Cottonwood river by Wm. Kumm in the
early sixties and in pioneer days was a
gathering place for the settlers of Cotton
wood and Sigel townships. The family
was on friendly terms with the Indians
and even during the terrible days of
massacre in New Ulm, the property was
not molested. In later years additions
were built to the original log cabin and
the latter veneered with brick. It un
doubtedly will be rebuilt.
CITIES BENEFITED
BY REDUCED RATES
COMMISSION ORDERS CUT
IN EXPRESS CHARGES WITH
IN 65 MILE RADIUS.
APPLICATION TO NEW ULM
WOULD MEAN SAVING OF 15
PER CENT
Although news stories of sweeping
reductions in express rates in Minnesota
on packages weighing 100 pounds or
less, have been printed by the Twin
City papers, inquiry at the local offices
of the express conpanies, reveals the
fact that no notice has been received of
a change rates. The order for the
reduction is said to have been made by
the State Railroad and Warehouse Com
mission to go into effect as of Saturday,
January 15th, and was issued as the
result of an investigation begun las.t
summer by the Commission when express
companies were permitted to charge for
interstate business the same rate as fixed
by the Interstate Commerce Commission
for interstate business, in order to get a
uniformity of rates. These rates were
based on zones instead of mileage and
the effect was a lower rate on small
packages and a higher rate on large
packages.
The state commission notified the
express companies that these rates were
not satisfactory and, following a number
of conferences, reductions were ordered
on packages weighing less than 100
pounds. The order also abolishes the
zone system and puts the rates back on
the mileage basis.
It seems that the order only effects
cities within a radius of 65 miles of St.
Paul and Minneapolis and while no
definite information on the subject is at
hand, local merchants are of the belief
that it is discriminatory and unless
amended so that all points in the state
will come under its provisions, an or
ganized effort will be made to bring
about a change to this end.
Under the recent order, St. Paul and
Minneapolis are made a common rate
making point and taking these two cities
as a centre 133 stations will be affected
within a radius of 65 miles, At 93 of
these stations the reduction will be 5
cents per hundred and at 40 of them 20
cents.
On second-class commodities, such as
butter, eggs, meat, poultry, fish, fruits
and bread, which have been carried at
75 per cent of the first-class rate, the
commission orders that these be carried
at 60 per cent of the first-class rate—a
reduction of 15 per cent.
DR. M. L. COLLEGE TO RECEIVE
$5,000 GIFT.
Prof. A. Ackermann of Dr. Martin
Luther college has been notified by the
probate court of Ramsey county that the
institution of which he is the director will
receive $5,000 under the will of the late
Rev. John C. Schwartz of St. Paul.
Rev. Schwartz died last April and pro
vided in his will that the local institution
$2,000 in cash, which amount
was paid some time ago. An additional
$5,000 is provided for in the will, but the
sum will be held in trust until after the
death of Gottlieb Schwartz, a brother of
the deceased.
Her-receive
No strings are attached to the dona
tion and it will be used for general edu
cational purposes when received.
COURSE FOR
MERCHANTS READY
UNIVERSITY EXTENSION DE-
PARTMENT OPENS MERCHAN
DISING SCHOOL.
EXPERTS WILL TEACH SMALL
TOWN BUSINESS MEN PROPER
METHODS.
Year by year the usefulness of the
State's great institution of learning, the
University is widened and its advan
tages extennded to more and more of
the people who support it. Next week
its doors are opened to the merchants of
the state for special advice and instruc
tion in the conduct of their business.
The One Week's Short Course for Mer
chants will be held the week beginning
Monday, January 24, along the lines
which proved successful for the two pre
vious courses.
The features which rendered the course
of interest to those attending it in 1914
and 1915 have been largely retained and
some additional ones have been added
which it is believed will be of practical
benefit.
Particular attention will be given to
advertising of all kinds and to salesman
ship. In both cases the material to be
presented will be of such nature as to be
of the greatest practical use to the retail
merchant located in the smaller towns of
the state.
More time will be given this year to
lectures on particular merchandise.
Textiles, groceries, leather and rubber
goods, and hardware will be covered by
men who have given long study to these
lines and who will present the points which
a merchant needs to know in order pro
perly to buy and sell them.
Two periods will be given to accounting.
The first will be devoted to a simple tho
complete system for the smaller retailer.
The second will take u* the plan ad^nkejt
by the Committee on Store Accounting.
Each evening there will be an illus
strated lecture or other entertainment
of a popular nature, but each will have
direct bearing on the mercantile busi
ness. On Friday evening all will go out
to the Farm School, where dinner will be
served, followed by a play to be presented
by the University students.
Lectures and Intructors.
George E. Vincent, President of the
University of Minnesota.
R. R. Price, Director of the Extension
Division, University of Minnesota.
Charles H. Preston, Assistant Profes
(Continued on Page 2)
BO**N« WANTONWA*
COUNTY IN 1878
APren LEAVING
SCHOOL HE YfMKBg
IN HI* FATHEfl'5
toneeft VAKP
MWEUA.
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, JAN. 19,1916.
OUR MEN OF AFFAIRS
DICK TRIO IS NEXT
ON LYCEUM COURSE
FAMOUS VIOLINIST WILL APPEAR
IN NEW ULM MONDAY
1
JANUARY 24th.
STUDENTS OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS
AND COLLEGE GIVEN SPECIAL
RATES.
The third number of the Lyceum
course, under the auspices of the Current
News Club, will be given at the High
School auditorium next Monday even
ing.
This is to be the musical number, at
which will appear the famous Dick Trio,
an unusual combination of musical
talent. Maximilian Dick, known at
home and abroad as a great virtuoso and
splendid musician Edith Adams-Dick,
recognized as the finest woman*cellist of
America, and Franklin Krieger, well
known concert pianist, make up the
personnel of the company.
There are few among the music lovers
of this country who have not heard, or
heard of, the violinist Maximilian Dick.
As one of the leading critics puts it,
"he |s an artist of whom every American
should be proud."
He has appeared in nearly every city
of importance in this country, and his
concert tours from coast to coast and
through Canada have been one brilliant
success after another.
It is not alone in America" that Mr.
Dick's ability as a violinist has been
recognized, for after a number of recitals
and public concerts in London, Paris,
Leipzig, Dresden and many other im
portant cities of Europe, he had the
honor of being appointed concertmeister
of the Philharmonic Orchestra of Leipzig.
He has also been connected with the
Mendelssohn Quintette Club of Boston,
and the New York Philharmonic Club.
-jiSpith Adams-Dick has long been^a
favorite on the concert stage and has
made several transcontinental concert
tours, some of which have covered the
entire continent. Mrs. Dick, in spite
of her sex, is now regarded as among the
greatest living cellists. She charms
with the magic of her touch. The
intricacies of manipulation that mark the
artist are her's in a pronounced degree,
and while her strongest point is un
doubtedly her technic, her tone is de
lightfully smooth and pure. While
abroad she was a pupil of Robert Haus
mann, of the Royal High School, of
Berlin, and later became the protege
of the great virtuoso, Heinrich Kiefer, of
tqoi~6ft6Aftfzef
TH6 SECURITY ST*»E
BANK OF HANSKft
MEMER
MOPEftN
8Loc uiec*. CNAtTCfL VtooOHttf.
»MRN«tt ZOMH renne Hewwr.
E. G. HAGE, Cashier Brown County Bank.
L-Arf«»«s»» ^sam
Munich, during which time she not only
won for herself the honor of being the
best pupil of the greatest 'cellist of the
day but also scored great success, both
in public and in private recitals.
Franklin Krieger, the pianist, is a St.
Paul musician who has won considerable
notice throughout the country by his
careful and scholarly work. He is an
artist and technician of the highest order,
and his ability as a soloist and ensemble
player is seldom equaled.
His playing, although brilliant, is full
of sympathy and refinement qualities
most fitting in the combination with the
stringed instruments, and wherever he
has appeared his work has been rewarded
by most flattering comment.
Mr. Krieger spent several years in
Berlin coaching with Stepanoff, the
famous Leschetizky exponent.
Following the meeting of the board of
Directors of the Citizens State Bank
last Tuesday evening, the board re
elected their bank officials: O. M.
Olsen, president Chas. Vogtel, vice
president F. H. Krook, cashier P. J.
Soukup and Wm. E. Engelbert, assistant
cashiers.
MILLION INCREASE
FOR EAGLE PLANT
ANNUAL OUTPUT WOULD RE
QUIRE 181 TRAINS TO MOVE
TO MARKET.
LARGE PROPORTION OF CITY'S
POPULATION DEPENDENT
UPON MILL.
An increase of nearly one million
dollars in business transacted- during
1915 over the previous year is shown by
the report of General Manager Vogtel of
the Eagle Roller Mill Company, pre
sented to the stockholders at their recent
meeting. In view of the general busi
ness depression and the added handicap
of restrictions placed upon exports to
foreign countries on account of the
world war, this is truly a marvelous
showing and one to which every citizen
can point with pride when calling a
visitor's attention to the business activity
of New Ulm. The exact figures as given
out are $7,264,806.10, as against $6,
315,188.82 in 1914.
Some idea of the enormous amount of
business transacted may be gleaned
from the statement that the total
number of bushels of wheat, rye and
corn ground during the twelve-month
period was 5,651,976 and the output of
both mills was equal to 1,284,540 barrels
while the offal amounted to 79,007,530
pounds. To keep the wheels in motion
during the year nearly 20,000 tons of
coal were consumed at a cost of over
$65,000. The railroads found the Eagle
Mill a good customer during the year,
having contributed the sum of $583,293.
65 for freight alone.
The company is carrying on its pay
roll a total of 324 persons, including,
mill employes, office force and salesmen.
Figuring the majority of these as heads
of families and five to each family the
milling company is supporting more
than one fourth as many people as
make up the population of New Ulm,sleeping
which according to the recent census
taken by the Commercial Club was
6,405. But the number of people de
pendent upon the milling company is
even greater, when one takes into con
sideration those indirectly affected, as
employes of the railroads, telegraph and
even extending to the United States
mails.
Figuring 30,000 pounds of finished
mill product to the car and 200 barrels
of flour as the average per car, it required
9,053 cars to move the product, which,
divided into trains of 50 cars each would
equal 181 tram loads. Could these
trains be started from New Ulm at 15
minutes intervals, the first train would
have entered the Chicago yards before
the last could have been started on its
way and it would have required nearly
one thousand engineers, firemen, con
ductors and brakeman to do the job.
Exclusive of freight the milling com
pany paid out $601,212.56 for salaries,
taxes, insurance, etc.
The fire department was called to the
residence of Julius Berndt on South
Minnesota street shortly before eight
o'clock Saturday evening, but found
little work to do, the blaze having been
extinguished by a bucket brigade before
arrival of the apparatus. A blaze had
started in a latticed summer house, where
shortly before an attempt had been
made to thaw out frozen water pipes.
The damage was very small, only a few
boards burning. An alarm was turned in
from Box 31 by a passerby, who had seen
the reflection of the flames.
NUMBER 3
EXPLOSION CAUSES
FRIGHTFUL BURNS
MRS. R. HOUNSHELL AT POINT
OF DEATH AT UNION
HOSPITAL.
DEFECTIVE KEROSENE STOVE
WAS CAUSE OF EXPLOSION
AND FIRE.
Mrs. Robert Hounsheil, aged 31, wife
of a farmer living 3 1-2 miles north of
New Ulm in Lafayette township, lies
at the point of death at the Union
hospital as the result of horrible burns
which she suffered last Friday evening
following the explosion of a small kero
sene heating stove.
The accident happened Friday evening
shortly after 7 o'clock. Mrs. Hounsheil
had accompanied her husband to the
barn to milk the cows and do the evening
chores. Returning to the house they
noticed the reflection of flames in one
of the windows on the second floor.
Without making a closer investigation,
Mr. Hounsheil ran back to the barn to
grab several horse blankets in order to
be prepared should he find a fire. Mrs.
Hounsheil rushed into the house and
upstairs to th^ room where the flames
were suspected. Upon opening the door
she saw nothing but smoke, but a second
later an explosion occurred and the entire
room was a mass of flames. The
kerosene in the tank under the stove had
undoubtedly exploded and the liquid
was splashed in all directions.
Mrs. Hounsheil had taken a few steps
into the room when the explosion occurred
and seeing flames all around her, was no
doubt bewildered for the moment and
did not know which way to turn. Vainly
she tried to smother the flames and
brush off the burning liquid from her
clothes and frantically she rushed about
the room in search of an exit to safety.
Her husband had in the meantime
found the blankets and attracted by the
explosion and then by the cries of agony,
rushed up the stairs and seizing Mrs.
Hounsheil in his arms enveloped her in
the blankets and earned her downstirs.
Her hands and arms and legs were
horribly burned and a doctor was im
mediately telephoned for, who arrived
promptly and took the suffering woman
to the Union hospital within less than
an hour after the accident happened.
In the meantime one of the children,
aged 12, had given the alarm to the
neighbors over the telephone and dozens
of them were on the scene before the
fire gained any headway. The room in
which the fire had started was the only
part of the house harmed by the fire and
the damage is not expected to exceed $75
on both building and contents.
The room in which the fire started was
the bedroom of the children and the oil
heater had been in use for several years
for the purpose of taking the chill from
the cold room just before bed time. No
leak had ever been noticed and Mrs.
Hounsheil lit the stove Friday evening as
had been her wont during the cold
winter months. Had the fire occurred
at a later hour it is doubtful whether the
children could have been saved.
Hospital attendants and the attending
physician say that the patient is suffer
ing untold agonies. The skin on the
arms and legs virtually baked to a crisp
and cracked open and great spots on the
woman's body show where the kerosene
had splashed. The fingers of her left
hand are burned to the bone, the nails
and flesh falling off almost as soon as she
had been rescued by the husband.
While hope is enteratmed that the life
of the suffering woman may be saved,
she is in a very critical condition and un
less nature aids in warding off compli
cations, the A\ orst is feared.
The Hounsheil family moved to
Lafayette last March, coming from
Iowa. The farm is owned at present by
Emil G. Hage of this city, but is more
generally known as the old Dalig farm.
EMULATING SHERLOCK HOLMES.
Sheriff Osten of Blue Earth county
seems to have developed an almost un
canny knack of discovering criminals.
His latest Sherlock Holmes stunt was
the tracking of two youthful burglars,
who had broken into a hardware store
at Eagle Lake, starting with nothing
more than a coat button, which he found
in the store after the burglary.
Several suspects were scrutinized
closely, until the one with the button
missmg from his coat was found. He was!
arrested, finally confessed, and led the
officers to a snowbank where he and his
partners in crime had bidden their loot.
•4,
T'
