HE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XIX-NO. 261.
1URRE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 191G.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
rm
REINFORCED
TURKS CLAIM
CZAR CHECKED
A Constantinople Despatch
Says That Russians Have
. Been Halted Along the
Entire Front, but Petro-
grad Asserts Operations
Are Proceeding Favorably
GREAT IMPORTANCE
ATTACHED TO BATTLE
Great Britain Insists That
Report of Allies' Offensive
in Greece Is Unfounded
No Confirmation of Re
ports Concerning It from
German Sources
GREAT BRITAIN TELLS
OF GERMAN ACTS
And Asks Wherein Germany Can Show
Surprise at Action Taken in the
Baialong Case.
London, Jan. 10. The British official
view on the German note regarding tho
Baralnng case was given out IitHt night
as follow:
"The German claim that their army
and navy have observed during the pres
ent war the principles of international
law and humanity and that tho Orman
authorities take rare that all violations
will bo" carefully investigated and pun
ished.
"Some surprise is expressed that the
nation whose armed forces have lieen re
sponsible for the sack of I.ouvain, the
murder of hundreds of unoffending men,
women and children on too t,usiiania
and other ships, the execution of Kdith
Cavell, the introduction of poisonous
pases, the poisoning of wells, attempted
torpedoing of hospital ships and count
less atrocities, should describe tneir
methods of warfare as humane.
It is further pointed out that it would
be interesting to know how rianv Ger-
AMEND SUIT
FOR BIG LOSSES
Minority Stockholders of the
New Haven R. R. File
a Declaration
$102,000,000 SOUGHT IN
NAME OF COMPANY
Claim Present Directors Re
fuse to Press the
Suit
Ronton, .Tan. 1!). The minority stock'
Further news was received to-day eon
cerning the campaign in the Caucasus,
where the Russians recently began an
offensive over a wide front and were ad
mitted to have been making progress
against the Turks. Constantinople now
announces that the Turkish armies re
sisting the Russian advance have been
reinforced and have checked the Russians
along the entire front. Petrograd, how
ever, claims that the Caucasus campaign
is developing favorably to the Russians.
Importance ia attached to these opera
tions because, though they are apparent
ly isolated, military observers say they
must be considered in connection with
the Mesopotamia campaign.
Little new light has been thrown on
the happenings in Greece where reports
of strong offensive movements on the
part of the entente allies came from
German sources yesterday. A London
dispatch stated last night that the Brit
ish foreign office declared it had no news
confirmatory of the German report and
believed them to be unfounded. .
...... . . . ... i '
man sui.icets, II any, nave oecn punisrieu i,0,.iHr. ,)f t. vPW York. v-w Haven A
tor these atrocities, i no ..ermans ennui ; Hlil tford rftiiroatl( ,vho arc guig the
that the Amino was torpedoed because f,iplll ,i;r,.t,.. t tioo iion iinn
the commander of the submarine had the l(nr . ii.,t w i,,,i-rn,l
table and im-
A.l an nmanfl.
that the Arabic was deliberately sunk by j nient t tfc uj tfc f. M to
A liernian tiiihiiinrinc without warning . ..
conviction thai: the Arabic was alffitt to . by t,0 anv jn ofl
ram tie submannc. T ho true facts are, to.(Iav fl,
SAYS MONTENEGRO
WOULDN'T ACCEPT
AUSTRIA'S OFFER
French Report Haa It That Conditions
Imposed Were Unacceptable and That
King, Royal Family and Diplomatic
Corps Are On Way to Italy.
Paris, Jan. It). The official statement
issued to-day said:
"The wireless news of the surren
der of the Montenegrin army ap
pears somewhat premature. It is
now announced from another source
that the negotiations between Aus
tria and Montenegro have been brok
en, the condition of surrender im
posed by Austria having been found
quite unacceptable by Montenegro.
The king, royal family and diplomat
ic corps arc about to proceed to
Italy." '
STEAMER RYNDAM
IS NOW AGROUND
No One is Allowed toNLeave the Vessel
and As Yet the Nature of Her
Damage Has Not Been
Reported.
London, .lan. 1!. The steamship Ryn.-
and that she neither attempted to attack
the submarine nor escape from it.
"With regard to the destruction of the
British submarine E-13 in Danish waters
by a German torpedo boat destroyer, it
is claimed that it came to a tight be
tween the war vessels and that the sub
marine defended itself with gunfire. The
.true facts are as follows:
"The Hermans found the submarine
stranded in neutral waters and incapable
of either offense or defense. The Ger
mnn destroyer fired a torpedo at the
E-13. The torpedo exploded close to her.
At the same moment the German de
stroyer fired with all her puns, and the
commander of the E-13, whose subma
rine was afire fore and aft and who was
unable to defend himself owing to being
aground, gave orders to the crew to
abandon her. While the men were in
the water thev were fired on by machine
guns and with shrapnel.
"On ieb. 4, the German government
declared their intention of instituting a
general submarine blockade of Great
Britain and Ireland with the 'avowed
purpose of cutting off all supplies from
these islands and this blockade was put
into effect on Feb. 18.
It was only on March 11 that the
British government put into force, as a
means of reprisals, measures against
German trade, which the German gov-
rnmcnt now try to maintain were the
cause of their submarine policy.
"The Germans maintain that in the
case of the Arabic, the E-13 and the Ruel
they were aiming at the destruction only
of hostile ships, and in nowise the de
struction of helpless persons. The death
roll of the Arabic, the shelling of Brit
ish sailors as they were swimming ashore
after abandoning the E-13, and the fir
ing on the crew or the Kuel who were
attempting to save themselves in the
boats, sufficiently answer this claim.
"With regard to the German refusal to
submit the Baralong case and the three
cases put forward by the British gov
ernment for investigation by an imperial
neutral tribunal, this action seems hard
to explain if the Germans are really so
convinced as they say of the guilt of the
British commander and the innocence of
the pepetrators of the three outrages
cited by the British government.
"So far as Great Britain ia concerned
it is entirely untrue to state that the
British government have left unfilled a
just demand for investigation. They
have proposed it, and it is the Germans
who have rejected it, doubtless because
they know full well that the cases in
which they are defendants would be de
cided against them by any impartial tri
bunal."
proceed in the name of the corporation
itself. They claim that the present di
rectors of the company refuse to press
such a suit on account of their friend
liness for their predecessors.
The amendment charges the present
directors caused the corporation to de
fend the present suit which was aimed
at former officials of the company.
VERMONT'S MAPLE
PRODUCTS BOOMED
SEVEN U. S. SOLDIERS
TAKEN CAPTIVE
BY MEXICANS
Members of 7th Cavalry Reported at
Douglas, Aris., To Have Been Cap
tured and Cowboys Are Scour
ing the Territory in New
Mexico.
Douglas, Ariz., Jan. 1!). Seven sol
diers of the "th U. S. cavalry were cap
tured to-day by Mexican bandits south
of llachita, X. M according to a report
received here. The surrounding country
is being scoured by cowboys, hunting the
bandits.
State's Publicity Agents Meet Officers of
Maple Sugar Makers' Association and
Discuss Plans for Giving Greater
Publicity to the Product.
Ways and means to aid in giving Ver
mont's maple products due publicity
were discussed at Montpelier yesterday
at a meeting of officers of the Maple
Sugar Makers association, with Walter
11. Crockett aiul .Secretary ol Mate Guy
W. Bailey and J. 1', Taylor of Burlington.
Among those present representing the
association were l'rcsidcnt A. A. Carle
ton of Newbury, Secretary H. P. Chajiin
of Middlesex, Treasurer Merrifield of
New-fane and H. V. Vail of Randolph.
The association seeks to increase the
market for pure maple products of good
quality, and to this end plans were form
ulated, which may be carried out after
consideration of their worth. It was
suggested that Mr. Crockett might issue
a new edition of the uiavdo sugar bulletin
which he edited some time ago for the
agricultural college, and, another sugges
tion which met favor waa that of having
printed in colors a pamphlet showing the
different grades of maple sugar and
syrup. ,
As an indication ot what may eventu
ally be expected, Mr. Crockett reported
avmg received a letter trom a big gro
cery house asking for information rela
tive to the plaeinr of artirder for 10,000
gallons of syrup and (1,000 pounds of
sugar, all of the beat quality obtainable.
I hose attending the conference expressed
the belief that it was a good sign of
what may be expected pt big buyers in
the future. 1
Several other plans Jvere taken up,
and it is probable that ft second meeting
will be held to take definite steps toward
the end desired.
FIRE WAS HELD
TO ONE BLOCK
RESPONDENT TOO ILL TO APPEAR.
West Rutland Sustained
$10,000 Loss This
. Morning
WOODEN BUILDINGS
ON EITHER SIDE
Volunteer Firemen Did Good
Work' in Saving Them
Cause of Fire Unknown
A WOMAN HIGHLY ESTEEMED.
Mrs. Florence E. Guptil Was Well Known
in Waterbury.
Wttterbury, Jan. H. -Mrs. Florence E.
Guptil, widow of Walter Guptil, died
early this morning at the home of her
daughter. Mrs. Edward If. Jones, in
Rutland, Jan. 19. The P. F. O'Neil
block in West Rutland was gutted by
(ire which started at 6 o clock this
morning from an origin as yet unde
termined. The volunteer fire depart
ment saved the wooden buildings on
ithcr side of the O'Neil building and
the loss is $10,000. The property was
well insured. The burned building was
of three stories and a wood construc
tion. Its occupants included T. Costa, a
fruit dealer, Leonard R. Noble's Law
offices and a boy's club.
WAS BORN IN CABOT.
This
William S. Abbott Died in Barre
Morning.
William S. Abbott of North Main
street, formerly a Barre gTanite manu
facturer, passed away at the City hos
pital this morning at 1 o'clock. Mr. Ab
bott had been in declining health for
several weeks and .Sunday his condition
Later Mrs. Amelia Lizxari Will Be Ar
raigned in Liquor Case.
An untapped barrel of Highland
Springs ale and several Binall-sized pack
ages of whiskey were seized by the po
lice at the residence of Mrs. Amelia Liz
zari, 3 Ahern place, last night. When a
trio of olllcers, John S. Murley, Harry
Gamble and John W. Dinecn, made their
appearance on the premises at H o'clock
there was one delegate, the police say,
who sat at the table drinking beer. In
addition to the seizure of wet goods,
pitcherB. classes and a faucet were tak
en away by the officers. Mrs. Lizzari
was arrested by Officer Murley in con
nection with the search and seizure war
rant issued on a complaint made to
Grand Juror W illiam ishart.
(In tho respondent's representation
that she was unable to make the trip to
police headquarters, she was permitted
to furnish bail in the sum of $5"0 for
her appearance at a preliminary hearing
to-day. This morning her physician no
tified Magistrate II. W. Scott that her
illness would prevent her appearance in
court and the case was accordingly con
tinned, after the woman had been ad
mitted to a renewal of bail.
ANNIHILATES SPACE AGAIN.
George B. Milne Calls Up from Denver
and Chats with Mayor Boutwell.
Mayor James M. Boutwell of Montpe
lier picked up his telephone receiver
shortly before noon to-day and heard
the voice of one of his business partners,
George B. Milne, speaking to him from
far-away Denver, Col. This is the second
time within a few weeks that Mr. Milne
las indulged in the pleasure of a 3,000-
milo talk with people "back home" and
he assured Mayor Boutwell that it was
"worth $,"00 to talk with someone from
home." The pleasure was surely mutual
in to-day's talk with Mayor Boutwell, as
t had been with John H. Jones of Barre
on the previous long-distance call.
Mr. Milne inquired of his partner and
CASH BALANCE
OF $9,109.81 IN
CITYTREASURY
End of the Year Finds Barre
with Sizeable Amount on
Hand Despite Increased
Expenditures in Two De
partments and a Larger
Interest Account
$15,044.65 WAS ADDED
TO SINKING FUND
Water Department Income
Was $14,481.41 over Ex-
penses and After Pa
off One $5,000 Bor
cial Sinking Has
Been Established Many
Reports In
in two or three months. Mayor Bout
YVaitslield, where she had been staying hVlter Abbott, who lives in Cabot, and
became so serious that he was removed well rauirht the words nrettv well but
I. 1. l t t ; i i i U .
w vnc liotsjMim. lie uf aurviveu uy a boh,
Raymond Abbott of Cabot, a brother,
INFORMATION
IS NOT READY
To Meet Demands of Senator Fall's Res
olution Concerning State of
Affairs in Mexico.
Washington. D. C, Jan. 1!). After a
conference with President Wilson, Sen
ator .Stone, chairman of the Senate for
eign relations committee, found that
the information saught in the Fall res
olution was not ready. He said he
would ask the committee to consider the
nomination of Henry P. Fletcher as am
bassador to Mexico but would not try
for confirmation before the information
demanded had been submitted.
The state department has been offi
cially informed of the execution of Jose
Rodriguez and Miquel Baca Valles. Sec
retary Lansing had announced that proof
of the punishment of the bandits in
volved in the murder of the Americans
would be required.
GERMAN CASUALTIES
TO DATE TOTAL
533,760 MEN
According to Statement in House of
Commons by British Official Who
Adds that 553,986 Were Killed
London, Jan. 19 Tennant, parliament
ary iinder-eecrctary for war, announced
$250,000,000 ORDERS
FOR UNITED STATES
during the past few weeks in the hopes
that she might . be benef.tted in health.
The body will be brought from aits-
field to her home in this town and the
funeral will be held there Friday after
noon. Mrs. Guptil was horn in Richmond 04
years ago next April, being the daughter
of Carl and Hannah (Towne) Stevens.
In her early life the family moved to the
Little river neighborhood in this town,
and she gained her education in the pub
lic schools and at the seminary in Wa
terbury Center. When 17 years of age
she married Walter Guptil and they went
to live on a place near Colbwillo. Mj
Guptil died 21 years ago, since which
time Mrs. Guptil had maintained the
oversight of her farm and brought up
her children. She was considered one of
the town's smartest business women and
wag highly esteemed by all,' 8h was a
member of the Methodist cuiire'o, was on
the officiul board and was a teacher in
the Sunday school. She also belonged to
thel'ierian club, and it was at her hos
pitable borne that the members of the
club were wont to hold a maple sugar
party each spring.
Mrs. Guptil leaves five children, as
follows: Myrtie, wife of Kdwrtrd If.
Jones of Waitsfield; Stephen Guptil of
Barre, who is employed in the Smith &
(.'timings store;-Carl Guptil, employed in
Bessey store in New Haven, Conn.:
Clayton Guptil, employed by the Singer
Sewing Machine company in Central
America; and Miss Mary Guptil, a mem
ber of the class of 1010 in Wellesley col-
ege. She also leaves four grandchildren
and one brother, Albert Stevens of Rich
mond.
three Bisters, Mrs. Chester Walker and
Mrs. Orel Barrett of Cabot and Mrs. C.
A. Badger of East Montpelier.
Mr. Abbott was nearly CO years old
and hadbeen a resident of Barre for
upward of a quarter-century. He was
a native of EaBt Cabot and after com
pleting the studies in the Cabot schools
he attended Peacham academy, from
which institution he was graduated. As
a young man he learned the granitecut
tcrs' trade and for several vears he was
associated with the late Wifliam Carpen
ter in the granite business, the firm of
Carpenter i Abbott having shed quar
ters in I turn ha in "s meadow. Older mem
bers of the fire department in Barre
will remember Mr. Abbott as a former
captain of one of the volunteer compa
nies when the department, headquarters
was on Prospect street. In lute years i
Air. Abbott retired from the granite
industry ami latterly he was afliliated
with the truckmen's union in this city.
The remains were taken to the under
taking rooms of A. W. Badger Jt Co.
on iorth Main street, where the funeral
will be held Thursday afternoon at 1
o'clock.
had more trouble making his own words
understood in Denver.
THREE MORE CASES.
MANY FLORAL TRIBUTES.
dam of the American line is aground at he. I1I,;use of to-day that
Gravesend, and the extent of her dam- lh ot?.' tern,"nt ps"Hlt1' P"b1ll8,,
age is not vet reported. An examina-1 n . Bpr,, to date . ot"' 2n
tion is being made. Meanwhile no pas- "V number, he said that 558.036 were
Representatives of French and Italian
Syndicates are Reported to Be On
the Way to Place the
Contiact.
Xew York, Jan. 10. The National
Surety company has been advised that
representatives of French and Italian
syndicates are en route to this country
to purchase supplies at an estimated
value of $25O,(KK),O0O for use after the
war. The supplies wanted include prod
ucts from many manufacturing plants
also provisions.
FROZEN BODY FOUND.
John T. Cone of Bennington Had Died
in His Home.
At Funeral of Mrs. Margaret Smith, Held
Tuesday Afternoon.
The funeral of Mrs. Margaret Smith,
wife of William M. Smith of 1 iirst
street, who passed away Sunday fore
noon, was held at the house Tuesday
afternoon at SJ o'clock, Rev. J. W. Bar-
nett, pastor of the Congregational
church, officiating. The bearers were:
John A. Gray, James M. Taylor, Charles
Bisset, John Ellis, John Broderick and
Walter F. LaBelle. The remains were
taken to Elm wood cemetery, where they
are to repose in the vault until spring,
when interment will be made elsewhere.
Among the floral tributes were the
following: Roses and carnations, Mrs.
Bennington, Jan. 10. John T. Cone,
who lived alone on a farm in the west
ern part of the town, was found dead
in bed yesterday, by Martin Craven, the j will, Mrs. Finney and Mrs. Clark; 23
nearest neighbor. The body waa froaen ' .,,,. hnsluiml and familvr earnations
and it is presumed that the man had ! Mr cai,,. iiov
heen dead since Saturday night. 1 ho
two men were in the village together
Saturday afternoon.
There are Now Four Scarlet Fever Pa
tients at Goddard.
Three new cases of scarlet fever de
veloped at Cwidard seminary and at a
conference of the school authorities, the
!l....ol Lflaltli on, I mumluira r( 4 ha
state board of health at the seminary
this afternoon it was expected that a
decision would be reached aa to whether
the school will be closed. Dr. H. A.
Ladd of Essex Junction and Dr. C. F.
Dulton of Burlington, members of the
state board, came to-day to confer with
Dr. J. W. Stewart, the local health offi
cer. Sessions at the seminary were sus
pended to-day and a partial quarantine
was established. Should the authori
ties decide to close the school, it is not
known whether the students will lie al
lowed to go to their homes.
The students who developed positive
symptoms of the malady yesterday are:
Miss Ruth Slocum of Washington, Miss
Annie Sargent of Warren and Miss Nor
ma Beals, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Beals, steward and matron at
the seminary. None of the three stu
dents is very ill, nor are there, any
alarming symptoms in the case of Miss
Fleda Hassam of Last Hardwick, who
came down with scarlet tever last wcck.
All four students have been isolated and
precautions adopted when the malady
appeared have been continued. At the I
outset it was believed that the malady
would be confined to a single case and
even now the school authorities do not
fear a general epidemic among the students.
......... .... ,
... nPn -11 .1 1 1. ni.iiru.
vessel.
The Kyndam left New York on Jan
uary 5 for Rotterdam. A report yester
day saiil she had passed Southend Down
by with her bow listed to starboard. It
said the passengers were saved but three
stokers were killed. The nature of the
accident was not annonuced.
EMPEROR WILLIAM
ARRIVES AT NISII
BLAME EDISON'S
NEW BATTERY
Gas Generated by It is Claimed to Be
Cause of E-2' Accident.
Germany's Ruler Held Conference with
King Ferdinand of Bulgaria and
Greeting Was Cordial.
lyondon, Jan. 10. A dispatch from
Xish says that Emperor William was
there yesterday and met King Ferdinand
of Bulgaria. It said their greeting was
cordial and they reviewed the Bulgarian.
Macedonian and German troops.
Official announcement was made in
Berlin Sunday that the emjeror had re
covered bis health and returned to the
front. i
TEUTONIC FINANCES
TO BE DISCUSSED
Washington, D. C, Jan. 19. Gas gen
erated by the new Edison, storage bat
tery, and ignited by a spark of unknown
oriifin, is held responsible lor tne ex
plosion on submarine E-2 at the New
York navy yard Saturday in a report
to Secretary Daniels yesterday by the
hoard of inquiry. This board made an
investigation preliminary to that now
being conducted by the naval court' ot
inquiry to determine the cause of the
disaster in which five men lost their
lives and nine were seriously injured.
Only one of the survivors was ex
amined by the board, a the others
were not in a condition to testify., Con
sequently the report is regarded by
the secretary as inconclusive.
STRANGE THROAT
MALADY IN FAMILY
Two Already Dead, Another May Die,
and Four Others Have Been 111
with the Disease.
Last Lyndon, Jan. 10. A stranee
throat infection is going through the
iamily of Henry J. t arter, who lives on
a farm in this place. All the family
nave Deen ainicted with the disease ex
cept the mother, including Mr. Carter,
six sons and one duughter, who have
been ill for two weeks.
The father, aged 51 years, died a week
ago. ora di.-d .Monday, hrancis. aged
IN, tt so seriously ill that it is not ex
pected he can live. The others are get
ting along, so they may recover. The
father's case developed into pneumonia.
Physicians are unable to diagnose the
malady.
HAD BEEN MURDERED.
Body of Man Was Found ia Woods Near
Concord, Mass.
Finance Ministers of the Countries Will
I
Meet in Vienna to Consider J
the Projects. j
loniin. Jan. 10. An Amsterdam dis-j
at.h sas a conference of tne tinmcej
ininiter ( G.rmany, Aiistro-llimttary.
Tuik'T and ltiVn will be held next.
Tie chief puri. is i
TO BEGIN TOUR NEXT MONTH.
President Wilson Will Carry National
Defense Fight to People.
Washington. I). ' Jan. 10. IVesi-
dent Wilson -s first ieakin trip to car-!
r - Via I.ad.m.l ,1 f . . 4'. I. . 1 - .' . I -
country will negm in rrbruary and i-i . , ,
probably will mrr the middle- extern
states.
RE-APPOINTED FOR FIVE YEARS.
L. B. Johnson to the State Board of
ec-k at Vienna.
el t be a dicnin of the f.nanc
tawtion f the Teutonic )!' and t
aJVptinn of fn.-i;r to tn-rt errtaia te tte lr-r 1 t.f eat t
.n.tu3fi if. cf 6e mr.
Education.
ll , ..-v. Gate tl re J..ii,tc-l l.ntl:,r
e B. J..1.H- (i cf Kan.;.. it., i a member -f
f'-r a rkl
Concnrd. Mass.. Jan. 10. A murder
was disclosed yesterday with the find
ing of a man's body in the woods near
Concord Junction. The man. a laborer
lelieed to be Jeph M.irellii, bad lieen
killed with a rrr or knife. There
were many slashes in the neck. Medical
Kxaminer Wolcott said there was no
doubt the ca-e one of murder and
in
Craig. The ltt.r called uix.n the state I
lodK-e f"r . -taiu-e m the inetit
tin. whitli was begun jeterdr after
noon. M.re!li. li been mim2 since
;Satnrlar mrH when the n ur Ur i !
;lie-l to have breft committed, waa n
t'pon Cone's request. Craven fed the
stmk Saturday evening before proceed
ing to his own home . Sunday morning
Craven called at the house but was un
able to gain admittance and after again
feeding the stock he returned home.
Craven did not visit the place Monday
but yesterday becoming suspicious that
all was not right be forced an entrance
and found Cone dead upon the bed. Since
the death of bis father two years ami.
Cone had lived alone on the place.
tions, Mr. and Mrs. Wood of Montpel
ier; carnations, Mr. and Mrs. Gordon,
Agnes Wood; carnations, Mr. and Mrs.
Riddel; carnations, Mr. and Mrs. Rossi;
carnations, Mr. and Mrs. John Gray;
carnations, Mrs. J. Cassani; roses, Mr.
and Mrs. J. E. Smith, White River Junction.
W. W. STICKNEY RE-ELECTED
President of the Vermont Historical So
ciety Ten New Members.
Kx-Gov. W. W. Sticknev of Ludlow was
re-elected president, resolutions were
opted on the death of Joseph A. De-
lioer, an officer of the society, and ten
new members were admitted at the an
nual meeting of the Vermont Historical
society, held at 3 o clock yesterday aft
ernoon at the State House.
The other officers elected were: Vice-
presidents, hied A. ::.m!anil of Mont
iwlier. T. N. Vail of Lyndon, C. P. Smith
of Burlington ; recording secretary. Phil S.
Howes of Montpelier; corresponding sec
retaries. Dorms n B. E. Kent of Mont-
M-lier and Walter H. Crockett of Hur-
ington; treasurer, Henry F. Field of
Rutland.
Aside from the routine business, in-
Inding the consideration and acceptance
of rcjiorts, it was voted to purchase a
portrait of the late Joseph A. IV-Boor.
APPRECIATIVE WORDS
FOR LATE J. A. DeBOER
DIED AT MARSHFIELD.
Were Spread Upon the Records of the
National Life Insurance Company
at the Annual Meeting.
"Joseph Arend DeBoer, president of
the company since 1!M2 and an official of
the company for over twenty-six years,
died at Montpelier on December 23. In
the thirteen years of his term as presi
dent the company has increased its as
sets from $22,3S4,2ta..'i7 to $o.1.H2.H.70LfH.
the insurance in force from 10H,57S.O.')(l
t .1O.OS7.121. the annual payments to
annuitant from f.l4.74!M:i to .xW.7ti2.1
the general surplus from 973il.21S.I3 to
M.S2.ti;i2.0(. and the annual dividend
payments to policyholder from J 1.17.
!!5.42 to 1J24.24U.M1; investments have
been made amounting to $lo!.n."K,Ho!.74
without loss through default of principal
or interest; the rate of interest earned
on mean invested fund has advanced
from 4.f7 per cent to 5.11 per cent; 78
per cent of the insurance in force has
been brought to the basis of a 3 per cent
interest assumption: the writing of n'on-
participating anil deferred dmdend poli
cies h te-n discontinued; the policy
form have Iwen libera tired and addi
tional benefit extended to old policy
holder: and the agency force has been
materially strengthened.
Thee evidence of progress. nbtan-
Anticipating early calls of "copy, mora
copy" from the printers, the city council,
n ita ferritin, muaim. lunt niirl.t nm.ln.1
close iriena now things were getting , , , . . , .
along here and stated that he was feeling lgn zz ueparimetuai reports lor nut,,
lietter and would be returning to Barre accepted the message or the mayor and
transacted a budget of routine business.
With commendable diligence the various
committees and department heads worked
busily a week in preparing their yearly
statements with the result that fewer
than 10 reports remain to be scrutinized.
Without an exception the reports were
accepted as submitted and the mass of
information ordered spread on tho city's
year book last nifcht is well calculated
to keep the printers, from the devil in
his ink-stained jeans to the more elite
tickler of linotype keys, busy until tho
next session of the council.
Among the Reports condensed below
for quick digestion will be found the
following: Chief of police, city engineer,
library committee, water superintendent,
street superintendent, trustee of ceme
tery trust funds, cemetery commission
ers, water committee, police committee,
health committee, fire committee, street
committee, wiring inspector, printing
committee, health officer, city attorney,
and legislative - committee. Essential
parts of the clerk's yearly statement
concerning births and marriages and the
annual report of the building inspector
have been printed already in The Times.
The Mayor's Message.
Here is what the mayor says:
"In reviewing the year that is just
completed, in its relation to city affairs,
1 find much to encourage and a little to
regret.
"The material prosperity of Barre bas
suffered from interruptions due to the
delay in making new working agree
ments between employer and employe,
while the granite industry was tied up
for nearly three months the early parti
of the year. The clerks and merchants
were unaole to arrive at a working agree
ment. I believe all agreements between
employer and employe should contain
provision for the continuation of work
pending settlement within a certain pe
riod of time, and, this failing, the two
sides to select their own court of last
resort, whose findings should be final
and binding.
"MiiI calling attention to these
things, I wish to express my apprecia
tion of the work done by Sheriff Frank
H. Tracy and his deputies in preserving
peace during the agitation incident to
the working out of a settlement of the
lalxir disputes last spring. With the
single purose of justice to all, he and
his faithful men saw to it that all en
joyed their full rights without interfer
ence or hindrance, and when the labors
of the officers were concluded there was
nothing to be regretted.
"Barre has the happy faculty of aoon
forgetting its setbacks, and no sooner
was work in the granite industry re-
sumed than tho future claimed our at
tention, "Building operations the past year in
clude the construction of more dwellings
and new granite plants than for several
years past. Four modern granite plants
have lieen erected, three tor new concerns
and one to replace an old-style circular
shed. Nineteen dwelling houses have been
erected, equal to the combined new
dwellings erected in the two previou
years, and the demand for property wa
never greater than at the present time.
"Beginning the year with cash on hand
of $4ti..M (excluding proceeds of school
bonds sold but not turned over), your
FUNERAL OF LUCY CERASOLI
Was Held at St. Monica's Church Tues
day Afternoon.
Funeral services of Miss Lucy Orasoli,
aged 13, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Ereole Cerasoli, who passed away at her
home, 32 Foster street, Sunday morn
ing, were held in St. Monica's church
Tuesday afternoon at 2 o'clock, the pas
tor. Rev. P. M. McKeniia. officiating. 1 he !
bearers were: Michael Keefe, William
Smith, Florendo Cerasoli, Joseph Cera
soli, Angclo Cassani and Joseph Cas
sani. A number of Miss Cerasoli's school
mates in the Brook street school at
tended the services and accompanied the
remains to the Catholic cemetery on
Berkley . street, where interment . was
made.
Following is a list of the floral trib
utes: Carnations. Mr. and Mrs. San
guinetti, Mrs. Mistrangelo, Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Bianrhi, Mr. and Mrs. Daniel
Keefe, Mrs. J. Coia. John Gasperini. Mr.
and Mrs. R. Restelli, Mr. and Mrs. Cani
pana, Charles Trentini, Mr. and Mrs. M.
Keefe, Mr. and Mrs. Berinati; "Gate
Ajar." father and mother, wreath. Mr.
and Mrs. E. Spera ; star, John Spera;
star, Mr. and Mrs. I). Delcotto; anchor,
Mr. and Mrs. N. (oia: wreath, Hcrtina
and cousin; wreath.
heart. S. DcBattista;
Mr. J. Magnnghi and
Albisetti and children;
Santi Dorazio
pillow, Mr. and
Mr. and Mrs. B.
carnations. Miss
Gradv and pupils; lilies, sympathy from
the meadow girls; carnations and roses, I city council was early obliged to begin
E. Cerasoli and Rosa de Julio. jtlie practice of economy. Numerous lit-
Among those present from out of the, tie leaks in city affairs were stopped or
ritv were: Mr. anil Mrs. Lmidio pera cut off. Saving were made in some citv
and
and
Joseph Spera of Hartford,
many other relatives.
Conn-
nq l ye f the AnvricaSi -o.ir null (daughter. M arrie teLer. who re-
, ia A. tn. The j.Uce w h- re he w f.Miml i at h..me. Mr, .xeiia iait ( ParT
! f the way t bis .ns. .!-., ti,; J nd Mr. l!iail- J.-l.n.n of ti t town.
C Cue aiitiK.ritw tkt be bad rn y- Kurxral twin uli le M.I Ti.urelv
li I, and rhit robto-L at 1 a. m. fro ti Ute fc.-ae.
Abel Berkley Had Reached the Age of
86 Yvrt
Man.hfi.ld. Jan. 1! Abel Bckl.y
paM-d away yesterday aft.rnoon at the j t i I as they are. fall far short of repre
adtann-d age of n. lie had own in fee-! ent iv.g the actual development of the
Me health f..r several year. mlTcrin; leoini-any in the period during wbich
from the iritirmitw of age and general j rrt.iert DeBoer "a remarkahle geniti
Kr-akiii-dow n He bales tna wife, cnrlnii exercise! unremittingly and with a
n. M. E. klev of (.rot on. ard three l.ictot ton tit knew no limitation in t),e
BOY AWARDED 5,000.
Lost Eyesight When Struck by Peas
from Shot Gun.
Bennington. Jan. in. In Bennington
count v court yesterday waiter lloins
ter. Iti years oid. was awarded a verdict
of f.'i.lHSl damage against C. P. Oat-
man ot l-cniungron lor inr ui" oi me
bov eyesight. The suit, whiih was
brought" through the lv's mother, as
imdrdian. for l.Vii.
The bov lost his eyesight on the night j water earning
department the engineering, water and
poor departments, and the city attor
ney's office with the result that the end
of the year showed cash on hand of !.
liKI.Sl. And this in the face of increased
expenditure in the street and police de
partment, and a larger interest account. "
"During the pat year the city's ink-
j mg fund has been increased I.t.04.fi.i
trom additions made during the year
and the income from the fund. This will
take care of the refunding bond due
May 1 and sti!l h ave the fund a large
a it n the first of the year.
"For the first time in the city own
ership of t be water stein, all sir t ins
are
u b::iiing of a strictly policyholder
-njnany on otmd and ient fie Ime.
11.. re i ro t-n- h of tne bume Cat
In ! returned tn
of September 14. la-t. when he wa !:ot ;,Bt department with the turroe of
'in the face with a charge of peas from .creating a fund to take care of the water
a shotgun while stealing grpe from j debt.
tile Oatman grd.-n. j "Kor at 1. t a doen yesr. the clr
j I hiring the trial the defendant teti- j a.tuallr hasn't i.l anything for 1
, f-ed that he bad loaded Cue gun ith,drant erii-e. though ti.e wst.-r .ierart -
l-i tor the purpoe ot r ppcrin; fniit ; m.-nt Is been rci,ted with reerinri;
t!iiee in the 1;. but that the -J ,,m " a hydrant from t'.e r:tv. x
charge i accidental and occurred while! tin b m tinned Imk iric t;:e ttj
le wa endeavoring to move tie safe-
(Continued on fourth psje.Ji
ty tatch.
(Cont.njcl en third Tg.;
