VOLUME XXXI. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 191916.
LAWMAK[RS' WORK
WILL NOT BE B[WY
Nothing of Supreme Impor.
tance Likely to be Enacted.
MONEY BILL
CHIEF FEATURE
There i Going to be Nothing Too
Orthodox in Way of Prohibition
Measures. Change in Tax Commis.
sion Law is Likely. Attendance
'Good.
Columbia, January 15.-There is not
a great deal for the General Assembly
to do at this session. The disposition
appears to be not to undertake any
radical legislation, and the likelihood
is that nothing of supreme importance
will find its way on the statute books.
In one of the plays that is now on
in Now York, "Common Clay", it is
stated that there are only two real
problems in life. One is sex and the
other money. The second of these
will make the overshadowing question
of the present session. The wheel of
legislation will revolve around the tax
commission, the appropriations, the
creation of new and perhaps neces
sary positions, the disposition of the
liquor on hand in the former dispen
sary counties, which mean money; the
fixing of the levies and the like. There
is a general desire to get the appro
priation bill in hand at the earliest
possible moment, and when that i111
portant legislation is disposed of there
will be nothing much to do. In fact,
some of the leaders suggest that about
the best thing is o have frequent re
cesses, let things settle, pass the ap
propriation and supply hills and say
goodbye to Columbia; this on the
theory that the least 'said .or written
on the statute books he soonest mend
cd.
As has been said before, there is
going to be nothing too orthodox in
the way of prohibition legislation. If
anyone has an idea that he or she
thinks will make things tighter just
let him or her send it along and it will
be offered and probably be enacted.
Yesterday the Senate passed a bill
prohibiting the newspapers of the
State from advertising liquors. It is
understood that the various counties
that. are interested in the disposition
of the remnants of dispensary stock
will meet to consider the best, thing to
do with the left-over goods. If the
counties linerested will get together
there is a chance of something behig
(lone towards realizing on the goods,
otherwise it will be a1 mjtter of stor
age for, a year or two. It. is suggest
ed that the Charleston delegation lis
been asked to introduce a high license
bill. It will be an utter Waste of time
and effort.. The Oenoi'al Assembly
speaking for the people-is going tq
make a try-out of prohibition; the
Simon-pure type if there be such a
thing.
It ia to be remembered~0A in this con
neltion that while prohibit on is wvith
some1 folka i a moral (lues.tion, wIth the
vast majority of the people ini this
sta[te,' andl those responisile for lpro
hibhition, it Iis ain eronom ic I ssue. Thte
hlinhig of labor being thle bnsla of
consblderatiIon.
Whelitir r there is going to h i any
dh:pmulIt on tI allow liiht w.in mi nd~(
baer:; ti o i be (ensumeid tb; d tl t ful. 1)r.
thle use of UI t i V.nies atnd hioor. iindi
maely bhe olii i iI.
Somie or the membIliili ar wiir:1 ii
IniL to ha not. nnd howv the driu. 'stor
hre gin g to he mest rieted in Ih lie
of th' mu tlt uide of' biters and enneni
t ion1E that are floodinug the mnak e t un
der the pre(tens~e of "(lire -alls~" ail
aro al readly rauppdling the driiunks.
Tlhue only prkopoill~ton that hmas bhni
miaudo in ('onnfe(tlon wvithI the tax 00om
iutevlo, is a bill.lhoking to the enact
ineut of theC provislin that *was inicor
poratedl in the originial ' Whep the'
Act wos passa i Section - had at iro
vision rfdf n reviewing board, to con
sist at ten members. Thin provision
was left out of the bill as it went on
the statute books. Trhe reviewing
board is not ini the law as a mattter of
aceldent and not of legislation. A bill
Is now pending seeking to incorpuorate
such a reviewing board ein the present
law. This is the only pending, propo
sitiqn.' 'Time talk is tshat an effor 'il
(Continueod-on Pag* Toth.)
JAILOR OV[RPOW[R[D
PRISONERS [8AP[
Four negro Prisoners make
Getaway Yesterday
"UNCLE JACK" GLENN
GIVES STIFF FIGHT
In Broad Daylight. Four Negroes Over
power Jallor Glenn and Make tet
away from County Jail. One Cap.
tured Last Night and Others Being
Trailed.
Shortly after five o'clock yesterday
afternoon the peace ofilcers and volun
teer assistants were thrown into the
throes of a man hunt following the es
cape of four negro prisoners from the
county jail, after the prisoners had
attacked and overpowered the doughty
Irish jailor "Uncle Jack" Glenn. The
jail delivery, happening in broad day
light while many people were yet on
the streets, attracted a great deal of
attention and some excitement. With
in a few minutes after they had made
their getaway the prisoners were 'be
ing followed by Deputy Sheriff Colum
bus Owings and a posse of volunteer
citizens. The negroes got. a good start,
however, and up until nine o'clock last
night only one of then had been cap
tured. Blood hounds from tie county
gang were brought in just about that
time and a chase bgean. The ring
leader in the jail delivery, George
Watts, charged with the murder of his
wife, was thought to be surrounded in
the woods bordering on Little River
and it is thought that he will be cap
tured.
Mr. Glenn, though painfully injured
about the lfoad and arms, was cheer
ful and bright as usual last night and
was able to give an account of the af
fair. Yesterday, said Mir. Glenn, Tim
othy flecks, who was to have been re
leased on bond today, had boon charg
ed with carrying coal and other things
to the jail. In the afternoon Mr.
Glenn was putting him in the cage.
Just as he opened the jail door to let
the prisoner in, three other prisoners
on the inside, Watts, Woody and Cole
man, made a dash through the open
ing. While Woody and Coleman icld
the Jailor, Watts attacked him with a
heavy stick of wood or heavy piece of
iron. Ti negro struck hill half a
dozen or more blows and tnined him
so that he was not able to handle his
pistol, though he was able to get it
out of his pocket. 'lhe negroes ;nade
for the door, Idragging Mir. Glenn
along. They got out of his grasp,
however, and dashed downt the :teps.
dhr. Glenn followed behind in a dazed
condition and was able to givre 'the
alarm, but the threoe negroes, followed
by Timothy becks, succeeded in get
ting away. One other negro, lien
Hamilton, (lid not take advantage of
the opportiun ity to escapieo.
Mr i. .lienn is painfully )ut not1 seri
ousl'y inijuredl.
Ini this connttontt it. is initerestinig
to noteI thIat ai1) bii was itIrod u'edl in
lie lower hIouise of thle legi :dhaturie lnast
iighlt . by Onie of' the coun iy's reprleseni
tat ives providing for thle a ppointmtient
of a conunfli.;wion to eirei't a new jail.
S!h : iili' NO' l' T A':i ITlOl NTh-:D.
Noi inormation htad beeni rr'eiv'd in
ili out iw tthe npired hunt Of Utt late
Mr. O1w ings. Yester day afternton Mi.ir.
W. W.. I iarris, was enied uip ini ( .mn
bia and aiskedi to se('uire uhalit inftormia
tion be 'oul d on thle situaitin. lie
cnlled uplon the governor' In Is Ca pae
ty s reipresenttative of ''Te Ad verisera
anid 1 liniton Chironicie, bit the kover
itor statted t hat hle st ill had the imat ter
tuder1 '1 conideraltion and woult d not he
able to give out anything definiite totr
several (lays yet, lie gave ouit noth
ing that would indiente whom his
choicoeioud be.
Mrr.. Menardl Moore.
Mr.Menard Moor'e, siater'- it-law of
Mr. Isrnest dioor'e, of this city, (died
at her home neoar Hioneca Pa th tho
early part of last wveek andl was buried
at Blroadmouth clhuirch 'uoiday. Shte
had been il bitt a short time. Be
fore her 'marriage pihe was ia Misa
iJrnie Loner and lived near Waterloo.
DEATI CLA13IS YOUNV MAN.
Paul Ilolmes Dies at llospitrA After
Undergoing an Operailon for Ap
pendicitils.
Paul Ilolmes, the son of '1r. and
Mrs. A. G. Holmes, of the Lisbon sec
tion, concerning whose illness was
noted In the last Issue of this paper,
died at the Julia Irby Sanitarium
Wednesday night. The young man
had undergone an operation for al -
pendicitis, which had advanced to
such a stage that it was felt that the
results would be serious.
The body was carried to Lisbon
Thursday, where it was interred in
the family burying ground. The local
troop of Boy Scouts, of which he was
an active and popular member while
at school here, acted as pall bearers.
The services were conducted by Rev.
J. L. McLin, assisted by Rev. C. F.
Rankin. A large number of friends
of the deceased, including many from
Laurens, attended the services.
Besides his parents, the deceased is
survived by four brothers and two
sisters, as follows: W. L. IIolmes,
Portsmouth, Va.; T. N. Holmes, Pine
view, N. C.; Joseph, Reed and Miss
Sarah, who live with their parents
and Miss Catherine, who is taking a
course at the Julia Irby Sanitarium.
There are numerous other connections
in the county and elsewhere.
Young Mr. Holmes attended the
graded schools here for several years
and was very popular among his as
see lates. Ile was a young man of
manly bearing and high sense of
honor. General regret. was expressed
at his untimely death.
lBEHALF OF ENLISTED MEN.
Tillman Introduces Biti in the Senate.
Washington, Jan. 12.-Chairman
Tillman, of the Senate naval commit
tee, has introduced a bill making it
a misdemeanor for agents of common
carriers, public ainusements or hotels
to refuse accommodations to any uni
formed enlisted men.
Violations would be punishable by
a line of from $50 to $1,000, or im
prisonment from thirty days to
eighteen months.
The enlisted men niust be "sober,
orderly and able and willing to pay"
when seeking such aeconnuodations.
Doctors to 3seet.
'The monthly meeting of the cojunty
iiiedic'al association will be held in
thil city Mlonday. li, adrtii; on to the'
Irou0t1In business, a jirograi f:itare'd
by addresses by U)r. St'ha::r, of ('o
,)muibia, t.nd lar. .1 1ie:<, o: :-(:iecs. w ili
te carrk' d ut < --a l'ta,' "> " thie .* ' -
elal addresses nd as this will be
'the iir me . liinsiug of then yraz' i- ltl at
t'endalnce is expiected. :
IHeads Mlayoralty 'T'icket.
Mr. Co. I: Mloore, formerly ' of this
enutnty but now a resident of Iilionen
Path, where h conducts a 'live week
ly paper, was elected "'mayour of the
town last. week, defeating his o ppon
ont, Mir. C5has. Bolt, by a vote of i i
to -17. Air. .1. E. Allen, who has 'onl
neetions Ia in his c oun1y3, was e'lec'ted
aldermzan,. l1'1 h of thie.e meni are lpro
gressivoecitirns anti will make va lu
alie otlicials.
Sunt and1 .OIo El:'ipse's.
ArCordiing to I le at roniomie: a par -
I omiioro moin) g, i ~ abom111 :; ii'ino1L
time3t ar at:i li l y * to take, a vi* V
it ui hat : a r; e . 1::' , ':a l ' I o
he a'e D il ee litte ofiii ;;h e : n 'I
! o er. eig rf iintirs e to funh hti
byv thi ('ahliia, Newbe'rry,' K- iaurens
ril1road, tranini No. 13. whichi hna- hltn
after at :1:25, arriving: In C'oluitaa at
7 :35. A numtbe,' of stops; at smal~ll ntai
No. 51I, fromi ('oht umbia, will ariv e
hzereafci' at 8:I8 P. M., ltiea of s8
o'clock as formerly.
Namedi TIrzsite of Statle (College.
Mr. ('has. I". lirooks, df this city,
has been named by (Gov. Manning as
a trusteo of the state negro college at
1Ol'angeburg. Mr. Ihrooks is well
vorsed in school matters and will
make a valuablo man for this npnae
IIE'SSIVE IIIT''ES -
AT SIlIElI'F'S FUNERAL
Funeral of Late Sheriff Owings Held,
Wednesday Morning In the Presence
of at Large (tlthering.
The funeral services over the body
of the late Sheriff .John I). Owings
were held at the family residence on
West Main street last. Wedneesday
morning, being conducted by llev.('.
P. lankin, R1ev. M. I. 4Lwson and
lRev. J. It. T. Major, of this city, and
R1ev. T. W. Muxnnerlyn, of Gray Court.
Immediately after the simple services
at the house, the body was carried to
the Laurens (enttory where, in the
presence of a large assemblage of
people, it was laid to rest. Services
at the grave were brief. Several se
lected hymns were sting by a choir
consisting of voices from the differ
ent churches of the city. The floral
tributes were beautiful and numer
ous, among them being a very hand
some one sent by the Association of
Sheriffs and Chiefs of Police.
The active pall bearers at the fun
eral were Sheriff Joe 11. M. Ashley,
Anderson; Sheriff .1. flay Pant, Union;
Sheriff Hendrix Rector, Greenville;
Sheriff '.annon C. Illease, Newberry;
Sheriff T. W. MeMillan, Greenwood;
Chief of Police W. S. Uagwell, Lanu
rens, and I)eputy Sheriff Columbus L.
Owens, Laturens. The honorary pall
hearers were T. Mac Roper, W. S.
Power, .1. W. Wells, 11. M. Ilryson, Will
ilClintock, .\. 11. .\lCuen, It. E0. llabb,
T. II. Little, . . .. I'luss, I)r. .1. It.
Teague, )r. W. ). Ferguson, Dr. W. C.
Irby and Dr. J. II. Miller.
Other sheriffs and peace oflicers of
the state planned to be present at the
funeral were unable to attend on ac
count of the uncertainty as to when
it was to take place. A party from
Spartanburg and Woodruff, including
Sheriff W. J. White, came to attend
the funeral but arrived too late.
LICENSE LAW 1HELPS SClHO0LS.
('otnt.iy Treasurer iteceives $5i.50 for!
School PIurposes from the State
Came Warden.
Superintendent of Iducation Sulli
van is in receipt of a hftter fronm the
state game warden advising hini that
$333.50 has been sent to the county
treasur er to be used for sclhoql pi
poses. This represent: -t part of the
proceeds from hunting .i'cense'; sold
in the county betweenx .11uly 1st, when
(ha act weit into effect, and I)ecern
ber 31st. Continuing, 1!he chi'f grx'e
wurdenl say.-:
"'au long,' as: yourl countyi remallinst
:xaih- th i liuii ier.; I icenst e iaw I will
he alie eacl yla r to Iuru over to your
cotyax 1errt-lin uis of' Iloney for
s'huool Iimrptos. The laws. ls, oily
been inlo effet. six months :,ixd inI
luture ye. i I anticipato th school
revenu~e will be mlucht hI;rer fr< (,n
the .above soire('. it. wilt porbably
be Wyll for you to let your county del
e;;attion1 realize the benteits of the
Illnters lai.ense Laaw. Also it will he
a hol; to your Department and to
mline if' tie different school teachers
lihrxouxghouit the countty will adv~oca le
thxis law."
1I. Wooudy, coloredi, alia " '. n"'
in anud genll. x haiu manxix x ao
tow, was sever(ex'y ''are x upiI arounxdxx
the xx!ghborhloodt of th'ji lax
* 1 .2u ai deeomn . .i
xom ,time xlast ine n nti
Ih I oy S('xoutx andt th it'Ioy 800'ox
xr, very xnxiouitis tox hor'row thiexxh-x
If y'ou happent~i to re'xl t hi'x andx hap
pen~ to h'ave 'thxemx, youx atre xxri
inrxited'i to ha pn ar1 x oun :.'.muxxI lhe
Illoy l(u' ~l Um wxdfxrters wi' i th to
undx - : r I n . x xrthr'- v . i
A Businetss (Chantge.
'.ir. A\lbert IDial hasi sol his inter
est1 ini the 1'copiles IDruxig Sfor'e to .\xlri.
lErskinie Todid. Thxe otheor part ner ix
thte butsiness, Mir. Prank Caine, will
con tinue in thet business as thet part
neor of Mr'. Todd. 'iThe new propxrietors
wvill take char'go of t.toheusiness5 on
Pobrxuary' 1st.
[[GISIMOR8 B[GIN
T11 StOND WE[L
Considerable Progress is
Made on Calendar.
IMPOSE NO TAX
ON FISHERMENI
Dliscussion of Seholarship Bill was
Begun in the Upper Hlouse. Likely
to Precipitate a1 Lively DIscussion.
Bethea Not Yet Returned.
Colunnhia, Jan. 18.-After a recess
of more than 72 hours the house con
veiled last night at 8 o'clock and
worked hard on the calendar for two
and a half hours. The house killed
a concurrent resolution to adjourn
sine die February 10, introduced by
Mr. Etiheredge, and showed a disposi
tion to cease making special orders
of certain bills.
'rhe house passed Mr. Sturgie's
amendment to the apitation tax on
dogs making the fee $1 instead of
5u cents. A bill proposing a tax on
resident and non-resident flshermen
was killed.
In the absence of Speaker Iloyt the
house was ealled to order at S o'clock
by George S. Mower, of Newherry,
speaker pro ten pore. The 1tev. .J. P.
Knox, chaplain, announced that he
stood subject. to call at any time
from any member.
On a resolution presented by Mr.
McCullough to have Alexander ,John
son, field secretary of the cominittee
on provision for the feeble-minded,
to address the joint asseibly tonight.
Mr. Dixon objected on the ground
that It. would interfere with the de
liberations of the house. On a divi
sion vote tile house adopted the reso
lution.
Mr. Liles asked to have his bill pro- i
viding for penalties on drunkenness
made a special order for 10::15 o'clock
this morning. Mr. Graydon strenn
ously ohjected on the ground that
there were' more important matters
to consider. Mir. Liles iaintained
that his bill was not too drastic but
would make prohibition prohibit. The
motion was carried.
The house killed a concurrent reso
lution introduced by Mr. El ieredge
that the general assembly adjourn
sin' ie ' iFebruiary 10.
AMiee ishe house' had refued to
inlake a splecial o.der of the't vo-ient
Inilage hil, the calendvir wa pro
eedrd u\ ithc reguIlarly..
.\Mr. ilulto defeided hlis bill ro
v ,4'n , f1r lienlse' on res:idet andr
nion-reaibb-nt l;: hermen. Theb hill was
oposed by Mr. .lecket , who poilnt.ied
out Ihat there .As now a'state board
of tisieries to talte c re ' sitch mat
ters. Hle sialf Mit' a Heense of $10
onl a fishermnY for using ia net would
put many of themlil out of i;usiness.
('omlni from a coast cou3nty, A.
I 'kelt. fold of the 11u ths in which
R ii Il bil.: 1: u s
~~~the uero i Cl .' an
than Iloing iii Ipany Ti0n5 re3Aso
I''iu 11n 1 r lnlse a)1 ~:i ~ intr knvot no
the h110 alii Wll ii< le 'only Wa , tkh
pa5I ligil for:'il0 ' t heliii afetu.'e.
w. livo ii.i"" woi'dnthin. v
(Crh tiheld ialo Pa Te.) -
LITTLE MONT[r[GRO
GIVES UP TH[l T
Beset on all Sides She.ays
Down Her Arms
TIlE FIRST NATION
TO SUE FOR PEACE
Ruissians and irlt%;l rl'ush i Turks (lard
in 31esoijotamia and the (auaeasus.
Allies have Landd Troops within
Few Milies of At.hens. Little Fitrht.
lug Elsewhere.
leset on the north, east and west
by Austro-liuingarian armies, and
with all lines of retreat cut off, except
into Albania, where hostile tribesmen
must be faced, Montenegro has asked
Austria-lungary for peace, and her
request has been granted. The uncon
ditional laying clown of arms by Mon
tenegro was made the basis of the
opening of peace negotiations, and(1
\lontene ro accepted these terits I m
posed by the dual mionarchy.
This announcement was made to
the IIaugariani parliainent by P r emier
Tisza, and it was aet with an ovation
oan tle part of the menbers of tho
chanther. 'Thus hoomes the first, with
drawal of any belligerent from either
of ithe alliances that have been fight
ing with each other since August,
191.1,
It hatd been concoced for (lays that
the situation of Montenegro was a
critical one. Although the army of
the little kingdont fought valiantly
against the Austro-llungarians, it was
uinequnaI, becnsaae of Inferior forces,
lack of guns and it has been stated a
shortage of comt n miariat supplies, to
the task of holding back the armies
that had, in cosajunction with their
illics, succeeded In craishhag Serbia.
Already the Mlontenegrin capital
and mainy of it.s important towas had
fallen into the hands of the Aui;tro
ilungar;iants, a nd the invaders were
we'll on their way to .\lotettneg'o's
cha ief seaport-- Antivari. Last ac-.
('(,1111s had the .\lonteneg'n gover'n
rnentil at :\-utar1i. 'The where''(a):outsi
of ling Nicholas 1s not kanown.
'Theiii' I i:i.,l a nd te i:u: in
.\Isop'o(tlarh and. tLre ('8 1;('ca .t; 'e
Rion resctiaively, ---apressingi lahe
Iurks Iat. ''ht' anm'' of K:Ing
bo(te'!( (ge . lmil.g rlhai'lwardia. from thee
erai n _aa 'lI to the relief of the .Itrit.
sh - forc'es at lKaut-el-Auatzra. ha4
Irivt n the Alt aani s to witi', six
iales of the haelvaguc'red town tim the
'igrjs.
The Itus'siaas in their drive along
the front of' nearly 100 miles h11 the
Cau('asus have woat additional points
rat' 'a ntage from the Ti'tr ks, especi'ally
ui the Ara-a aulraidla 'aley reoaionts.
Constant itnoptl :admtat tIlis, buit says
th Iat ati of h ' Ar a int hand -toa
han ad faiht ing' int' a~ Rusi an adv aced
tao it in hIt y ''a nu a lltles wart a 1liet
() theI iht 'onat 1 1 1 ii ar
ah t. . r . 'b
a ittd lroot hiae 1. h tI it I i h 'r
a 0 tar' ir : m:i .a li l ea . I' i' ' ns(t
tand once~a ~theat p aaort o t (i 'at
lth pr ta;;tior.: ae nap t I the Par
ta' fot tain ('ona'tatin an.d 'lthe
pt'lane of tu' falhth 'er i s L ''(' , tihn
wth ;te lamente po'Il , at nex hen
d~tospapery it aut'olity orth .ta
