I 7
Citizen
The prophet vho isn't known in his
own count" safely lay the blame
at the door 01 1 $ wertising Proof
A man doesn't know what is in him
until he tries and he hasn't tried
until he has advertised Scribe
cr
VOL.. XXXV, tf).
HYDE PARK, VElUlOiW. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY It), 1U1G.
$1.25 A YEAR
Saleeby's Clearance
Safe is How On
AT
CRANE'S
Canned Shrimp. Lobster, Crab
Aicat. lunn rih, salmon, ftfir-
dines, Lord's Boneless Herring
Clams, Clam Chowder.
PIE TIMBER Evaporated Fruits,
Canned Apples, Prunes and
Mince Meat.
BKIGGS'
DRUG STORE
FRUiTS Oranges,
Fruit.
Banana?, Grape
CELERY AND LtiTTUCB
ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD
Everything the best, and the price
Tight every time.
EXTRA FIXE CHEESE
Sage and Plain
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
Now is the ti ne to order your Trees and
Shrubbery for Spring planting. Carolini Popular
$25.00 a hundred, 10 to 12 teet, 3 for f-i.oo: Ap
ple Trees, $2c.oo a hundred, 5 to 7 feet; Apple
Trees, 10.00 a hundred, 4 i-a to 6 feet; Apple
Trees, 40c each, 4.00 a dozen, 5 to 7 feet; Apple
Tiees, 20c each, 2.50 a dozen, 4 1-2 to 6 feet, any
variety, all stock warranted.
THE SHERWOOD NURSERY CO.
R. E. Brown, A,i;ent, Hyde Park, Vt.
BUSINESS NOTICES.
Wanted. Girl for light housework Two in
family. M. B. Eaton, Morrisviile.
Wanted at Once. A board sawyer, steady
job to right party. W. C. Ward, Morrisviile.
Wanted! Calves, Cheap Cows and Bulls;
also Good Farms for sale. (Telephone 124-31 )
John Miner, Hyde Park.
Wanted to Buy. Veal Calves suckers or
drinsers. Also I have one good, all around
horse for sale. A. V. VVaith, Morrisviile.
Sleighs. I have a few of my Hand Made
sleighs lett and will make a very low price to close
them out. Cash or credit.
W. W. Talbeit, East Hardwick, Vt.
Lost On the road between No. Hyde Park
and Johnson last Friday night, a Mink Muft.
Finder will please return the same to the post
office at No. Hyde Park r Johnson and be suija
bly rewarded. Mrs. D. A. Barrows, Johnson.
Potjltry For Sale. I have fifty Hens and
Pullets, good layers; part R. 1. Reds and Brown
White Leghorns. Also a good hen house and
Chicken Wire, all for sale at a bargain. Apply
any day except Saturday.
R. T. Foster, Morristown Corners.
LAXACOLP
Tablets break up
COLDS AND LA GRI PPE
NYAL'S CHERRY
COUGH SYRUP
Relieves Coughs
Old-Fashioned
HOREHOUND
DROPS
The"bestever,"as you
know if you have
tried them
BRIGGS' DRUG STORE
MORitlSVILLE, VERMONT
Lamoille Grange Meeting
The next meeting of Lamoille Grange
will be held Friday evening, Jan. 21. A
condensed review of what the National
Grange aecomplished at its annual ses
sion held at Oaklaqd. Oalil., last Novem
ber will be given at this time. The
speakers will be W. M. George H.Terrill,
C. F. Smith, Rev. VV. E. Baker, Robert
Morrill, Ethel Hoyt and Mrs. J". R. Par
ker. There will also be music and recitations.
MORRISVILLE
C. E. Smith is visiting; in Stowe.
Col. Stewart ot Milton transacted busi
ness here today.
F. G. Fleetwood is spending several
days in New York Lity.
D. N. Hutchins has been confined to
his home the past week, suffering from
grip.
Mrs. Rufus Atchinson has been con
fined to her bed since Sunday, suffering
from a severe cold. '
The condition of Miss Plutna Darling,
who has been confined to the house lor
several weeks, is improving.
Mrs. Pease of Elmore has been a nest
at the home of Mr. and Mrs. H.-ir..lrJ
Dutton on Elmore street the past n i k.
C. H. Stafford & Sons, are erecting nn
ice house adjoining their pasteur'zmg
plant on lower Main street. The build
ing ia 30x64.
One hundred and eighteen deposits
made in the savings department of the
U. S. B. and T. Co.. Jan. 3. Did you
make one of them? If not, start the j
new year right by making a deposit and
get a book at once.; adv.
H. P. Hood & Sons have the frame
work for a large building nearly com
pleted at the Morrisviile depot. This
building will be used at a receiving sta
tion for milk for shipment and will be
used in connection with their creamery
business in Morrisviile. Oedric Hum
phrey of Wolcott ,has charge of the car
penter work.
P. A. vs. Mont. Sem.
Fripay evening Peoples Academy tack
les Montpelier Seminary at the local
gymnasium. Both teams are fast and
this should be one of the best games of
the series. Game starts at 8 o'clock
sharp. Be on hand early if you waut a
good seat.
Annual Bank Meeting
The annual meeting of the Union Sav
ings Bank and Trust Co. was held at the
bank Monday afternoon The following
directors were elected: C. H. Stearns,
C. H. Slocuiu, II. A. Slayton, C. E. Burt,
F. G. Fleetwood and W. M. Sargent.
The organization is, President, C. H.
Stearns; Vice President, H. A. Slayton;
Treasurer, W. M. Sargent.
An Entertainment of Merit
The concert by the Royal Male Quar
tette, the third in the Woman's Club
Course of Entertainments given last
Thursday evening, was fully up to expec
tations, the members sustaining their
reputation as one of the best organiza
tions ot singers and players on the road.
As a quartet, t heir voices blended beau
tifully, each quartet number on the pro
gram being especially good, while the
solo work and instrumental selections
wt re all ot a big h order. The readings
of Mr. Can. pbell were good and the com
edy was clean and bright. Each mem
ber is an artist and adds his full share to
the program, equally with his talent and
pleasing presence.
The Woman's Club committee is to be
congratulated upon the success of the
Course. The next number by the Scot
tish Musical Comedy company.on March
10, promises to be fully up to the high
standard set bv the others.
Masonic Ball Feb. 1st
On Tuesday evening, February 1st, a
Masonic ball will be given at town hall
in Morrisviile, the proceeds to be added
to the Masonic Temple fund, which is
growiug every week. The committee in
charge of the arrangements for the hall
are making plans for one of the most en
joyable social events ever held in Morris
viile and indications point to a large at
tendance. There will be dance to suit all ages
and tastes and everybody will be made
to feel at home, whether they dance
them all or not at all.
This is a rare opportunity for every body
to boost.
Mrs. Harriet Carola Eaton
The remains of Mrs. Harriet Carola
Eaton, who died in Chicago Wednesday
Jan. 12. alter a short illness, arrived here
Saturday night, accompanied by her
daughter, Miss Ellen C. Eaton. Death
was due to cerebal hemmorrhages. The
remains were taken to the home of Mrs.
b. B. One on Jersey Heights and inter
ment took place in the cemetery at Oady's
Falls, Saturday afternoon, Rev. R. D.
Cranmer of the Universalist church con
ducting brief services. The bearers were,
C. L. Gates, E. W. Gates. Smith Gates
and R. L. Fairbanks.
' The deceased was born Jan. 4, 1S33, in
Morristown, a daughter of Lovell and
Hannah Gates. She was married in
1853 to Danford L. Eaton, who died in
March, 1884. Mrs. Eaton and daughter
went to Chicago to live permanently in
1893 and since then they have visited
their old home frequently, where warm
friendships have always Jbeen retained.
During her residence in Morrisviile, Mrs.
Eaton was a member and loyal worker
in the Universalist church.
Salccby's Clearance Sale
Last Saturday, the 1 5th, was the opening day of this great sale. The mercury was
down to 20 below zero, but that was not sufficiently cold to keep away our faithful patrons
who crowded this store all day long.
Every Town in the County was Represented
Every Face was Familiar
These people have attended our previous sales and evidently realize what these sales
have meant to them in the past. They know that we always have the merchandise and
values to back every claim we make in our ads.
This great money-saving opportunity is extended to everyone who wishes to profit
by it.
The stocks are larger than we have ever had to offer and the reductions and values will
surely appeal to you if you only see them.
Come, and You Will Not be Disappointed
A. J. SALBEBY
"The Store That Saves You Money"
JOHNSON,
VERMONT
Miss Flora Tuliper has commenced
work as apprentice in the Messenger
office. . , i ,
Mrs. B. E. Eaton has been suffering
the past week trom a severe attack of
neuritis.
Mr. and Mrs, C. H. Tucker and daugh
ter, Dorris, of Jefferson ville were in town
last Saturday.
Rev. and Mrs. George W. Tabor have
both been confined to their home by ill
ness the past week.
Hon. George A. Morse was a business
visitor in Barre a couple of days the lat
ter part of last week.
Mrs. W. C. Whitney of East Fairfield
was the guest of her sister, Mrs. Mae
Buntly, the past week.
Mrs. Clara I. Marrs, who has been
qimeillat her home on Summer street
the past week, is gaining.
The condition of Mrs. M. B. Eaton,
who has been seriously ill from bronchial
pneumonia, is improving.
A. C. Smith has resumed work in W
F. Sherman's barber shop, aftet a few
days' illness from the grip.
J Cyle Smith, the young son of Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Smith, has returned to
school, after a week's illness from grip.
R. W. Clark of Berkshire was a guest
over Sunday at the home of his daugh
ter, Mrs. L. J. Fleming, on Maple street.
The Wallace stone sheds began oper
ation Monday, after a two weeks shut
down on account ot a shortage ot stock.
Earl Keeler. a student at Peoples Acad
emy, has been ill the past week at his
home on Park street, suffering lrom the
aim ...,,, v.
Mrs. A. V. Gile and sister, Mrs. Cor
delia Atwood. and Mrs. B. F. Drown
have all been ill the past week from the
prevailing distemper.
Mark E, Marrs, who went to Boston
several months ago, to attend a linotype
school, is now employed as an operator
in a printing office in Frainingbam,
Mass.
Miss Ruth Bailey left Monday morn
ing lor Burliugton, where she entered the
Fanny Allen hospital for an operation
for appendicitis. She was accompanied
by her father, H. C. Bailey.
Miss Reba Skinner returned to Mont
pelier Seminary the latter part of last
week, after an illness of ten days. Mrs.
Howard Skinner and daughter, Ruth
who have been suffering from grip, are
both better.
Miss Helen C. Eaton, who arrived here
last Saturday with the remains of her
mother, lett Tuesday morning, going to
Waterbury, where she spent the day
with Mrs. Helen Demeritt. She left there
Tuesday night for her home in Chicago.
O. M. Waterman, the clothing man,
is not announcing a regular clearance
sale this month, but in his regular
adv. this week mentions some sensation
al overcoat bargains that will be inter
esting reading for real bargain hunters.
On Thursday evening, January 27tb,
James M. Warner Post, G. A. R., the
W. R. C, Sons of Veterans and the La
dies' auxiliary societies are cordially in
vited to the supper to be given by W. G.
McClintock in honor of his 78th birth
day. The affair will be held in G. A R.
hall, where Comrade McClintock will re
ceive his guests.
Miss Laura Holmes, who has been
with her father at the home of J. t.
Thomas the past two weeks, left Mon
day night for Boston, being called there
by her duties in connection with her po
sition in the Lucy Wheelock home. The
condition of her father, who is critically
ill, is practically unchanged. Miss Stan
ley, a nurse from Burlington, is assisted
by Miss Ethel Badger of this place.
John Stewart left Tuesday for Water
bury, where he will work in the gents'
furnishing department of the F. C. Luce
tore. This is in the way of a promotion
and will give John an opportunity to
learn this branch of the business. It is
expected that he will return to the Mor
risville store in two or three months.
Herbert Farnham of the Waterbury
store will assist Mr. Benson here for the
present.
THE EARLE STORE
New Spring- Wash Goods
Our new spring wash goodx aie just in and in preat variety.
We had to buy these fabrics early on accoun t of the rising market
and to give our customers the benefit of the old prices. fl..,j
IV.
Percale
In the light colors, greys and blues are here and the prettiest
lot we have ever shown You tnii9t see these goods to really ap
preciate what beautiful styles are made in percales. They are the
best of this year's produc.ion.
Ginghams
Corne in prettier patterns than ever, new in design and color
ings. 1 he apron ginghams areabout the same as usual in patterns
and price.
Juvenile Cloths
, .. And Tiger Cloths, made especially for childrens clothes meet a
great demand l.-r a durable, cloth in fast colors and at a moderate
price. , ,
Bath Towels
Ve were fortunate enough to buy another lot of those im
ported bath towels to sell for 25c each. This is the most wonder
ful towel ever sold for the price. Just ask ta see it if you have not
had one.
New Wool Dress Goods
If you need a new black dress we wish
weave we are showing at $1.50 the yard.
you to see the new
Piano for Sale
We have for sale one of the celebrated Emerson Square Pianos.
This instrument is iu first-class condition in every wa v. Would be
a splendid instrument for a Hall or Lodge Room. Will be sold at
a price that should appeal to any prudent buyer. For particulars
call on or address the undersigned.
Morrisviile,
GEORGE P. EARLE
Vermont
Will be made on all
Ladies' and Men's Felt Slippers
And all odd lots in
Men's Efeavy Rubbars and Arctics
This week to close these lines
F. G. LUGE COMPANY
Portland Street A Morrisviile, Vt.
Death of Mrs. E. F. Hobson
A. R. Campbell was called to St. Johns
burv last Saturday on account of the
critical illness of Mrs. Campbell's sister,
Mrs. E. F. Hobson, who died at Bright-
look hospital Sunday. Mrs. Campbell
had been with her sister for over a week.
The remains were taken to her home in
Newport, where the funeral was held on
Tuesday afternoon. Mrs. Hobson had
spent some time in Morrisviile, as her
daughter, Miss Lucile Hobson, was a
member of the graduating class of '15
of Peoples Academy and has been taking
the Teacher Training Course this year -
going to her home at the beginning of
the Christmas vacation. She leaves a
husband and two daughters, who have
the sympathy of many friends in Morris
ville and vicinity.
Everybody Is Doing It
Starting an account with the Union
Savings Bank and Trust Company ot
Morrisviile. adv.
HYDE PARK
Monday was a fierce winter day.
R. E. Brown is selling nursery stock;
read his adv't.
"Phon" Boyce now manipulates the
village snow plow.
Merritt Mann of Waterville wasa busi
ness visitor here Monday.
Deputy Sheriff Stevens transacted busi
ness in Cambridge Monday.
Fred N. Keeler and wife of Greenfield.
Mass., are spending a few days in town,
Miss Muriel like of Stowe was are-
cent visitor at the home of her uncle, F.
M. Culver.
Post Office Inspector Goodman of Wash
ington, D. C, dropped in upon this place
last Thursday.
By the will of the late Rev. O.'M. Bout
well the Cemetery Association receives a
bequest of $100.
Misses Sadie Breman and Mildred
Montgomery of Johason spent Sunday
at the home of Gavin Tyndall.
Pearl Johnson, who is in the customs
service at Ilighgate, spent Sunday here
with his uncle, A. V. Wis well.
David Trudeau, who has been at the
Mary Fletcher Hospital three weeks un
dergoing an appendicitis operation, re
turned home Saturday greatiy improved
in health, although as yet not very rugged.
Mrs. Trudeau and daughter Alice went
down Friday and returned with him.
On Thursday evening of next week
Prof. Simpson and bis associate teachers
will have a Parents' Meeting at the
schoolhouse. A personal fnvitation has
been extended to all the parents whose
children in the school to attend the meetf
ing, hs matters pertaining the interest o
all will be considered.
Mrs, L. B. Tomlinson, whose death is
noted in the Stowe news, will be remem
bered by our older residents as the wife
of O. W. Snyder, who was her first hus
band. They resided in Hyde Park some
forty years ago, 'living in the " Alharabra,"
which was destroyed by the big fire. He
was in the employ of C. S. Page and their
two sons are now members of the well
known Batchelder & Snvder Co.. of
Boston.
Walter Hill and Harold Waite were ia
town over Sunday, returning to Morse'a
Line yesterday. They are now invoicing
the J. M. Hill stock at that place and will
take possession in a few days. The
young men will enter upon a business
that has been under the management of
Jas. M. Hill for forty years and is well
known throughout northwestern Ver
mont and Canada. Mr. Hill retires in
order to take life a bit easier and give at
tention to outside matters. The new
firm are experienced young men and are
to be congratulated upon getting posses
sion ot such a well-established business,
which reputation they will undoubtedly
maintain.
'Twai "Gentlemen's Night"
The annual "gentlemen's night" of the
Home Culture Club occurred last even
ing. The place was The Inn, where a
large number of the Club membership
with their gentlemen friends and invited
guests enjoyed a very pleasant evening.
After the officers of the Club had received
the guests music was furnished by Miss
DeXio as pianist. Prof. Crosby violin. Dr.
Leach 'cello. Then came the play of the
evening, which was "The Old Maid's As
sociation," in which a number of fair
dames had part and which was full of
fun from beginning to end. After the as
sociation had had a "session" Prof. Make
over (PageUfford) appeared and through
the manipulations of his machine changed
the several antiques into sprightly and
winsome damsels. A song by Miss De
Nio and a recitation by Mrs. UUord add
ed to the interest of the event. After this
refreshments were served and then came
marching and dancing, which concluded
a very pleasant entertainment.
