lie)!:
.
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
'
JL Sf
J
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
.
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGONWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
ON TKAUN8 AMI) JNBW3
STANDS FIW fKNT
ALL ES W8 COUNCIL IS
IN SESSiN AT LONDON
Air is Filled With Rumon Jaim No Ultimatum Has Been
Sent Greece Montenegro's Surrender Denied German
Drive at Salonika is Lxpected Revolution in Greece
That May Overthrow Constantine and Establish Republic
a Possibility
London, Jan. 19. When the war council of the allies
met today, the air was full of rumors of important devel
opments in the Balkans.
Before the session, an official statement discredited the
German report, however, that the allies had sent an ulti
a turn to Greece demanding immediate withdrawal of the
diplomats of the central powers. The announcement said
that the report was "believed" to be untrue.
At the same time, reports from Rotterdam and from
German cities said a revolutionary movement is afoot in
Greece to establish a republic. According to the stories,
former Premier Venizelos would head the new regime;
and King Constantine was said to be in danger of being
shorn of his power at an early moment. From several
sources came reports, too, of various landings of allied
forces in Greece, together with stories indicating the pos
sibility that the attack of the central powers on Salonika
is about to begin.
The war council was summoned suddenly, and the fii;st
intimation that it had been called came with the arrival of
Premier Briand of France. It was indicated that matters
of the greatest political and military importance were to
be discussed particularly as there has been no session
since the December meeting in Paris, when it was decided
to continue the Balkan campaign and to land more troops
at Salonika. Inasmuch as the Salonika drive apparently
looms nearer and the Grecian situation is troubled, and
in view of Montenegro's withdrawal from the fighting
the situation is such that the session may be fraught with
especial importance.
T'rPinior Asquitli, of KnclanJ ami
I'riaml 'onti'inl the session, nonm
Cniiie.l liy miliiary roi'iosi'iititivos
hliortly nl'tor noon.
The Athens censor litis ".inr.lly pa-soil
any dUpaU'lios for three il.iys. This
iaet is reRnrili'il ns ominous here, in
view of reports of n possible revolu
tion hen.UHl liy former l'reimer Veui
y.los, conpleil with n doubt t'.mt ton
Kt.mtino eoulil control the Creek army
in n crisis.
The censor. howevor, pnsseil n (lis-j-ntch
to t iic Daily News, to en. I 'Mun
scions rumors,' giving that tlrecco is
uliout to declare marlial law.
It had been ri'porteil recently that
the Venizelos party might refuse to ac
cept the result of the recent election
in which they did not participate, thus
precipitating a crisis when parliament
meets Monday,
Greeks To Withdraw.
Athens, .T.in, 11). All (.'reek troops,
except a batalion, will be withdrawn
from the Bulgarian frontier, it was of
ficially announced today, because of
the difficulty of provisioning them. At
tlio same time, it was announced t lint
lingland has Agreed to export fiOOO tons
of coal to Greece, thereby eliminating
possibilities of a tieup of the railroads.
A British steamer transport tilled
with Serbian troops has reached Salon
ilia from Albania to cooperato with
the Anglo-French fjrees.
It is possible tint reasons other than
shortage of provisions actuated the
4C3((!K'c)C!4t!)(3C9j(!fc43)C)c
I ,
Abe Martin 1
pj( Jt ft ft JJt ))t )J( ft )fc )t fc j)c )jc )(c llf
,y.t
: i .a ..v i
J .t'-i.-f
"My sales nlivo, now I hate win
fcrt A buddy kin lnrdly l.iy a cent
n.iide fer th' the ater alter buyin' coal
nn' things," said Mrs. Lib 1'ns'h, t 'day.
Whoever nirries Pawn Lippineiit '11 git
1 practical wife. She makes her own
Lits nn' shoots her own rabbits.
P1M
withdrawal, particularly in view of the
tact that the allies recently urged the
withdrawal from both the (Serbian and
llulgnriaii frontiers.
Eusdan Offensive Halted.
Constantinople, Jan. 1!'. The Ilus
sian offensive in the Caucasus has been
halted by Turkish reinforcements, said
the war office today claiming that the
Slav attacks li.nl been repulsed with
lie ivy enemy losses.
"The general situation is favorable
despite an eig'nt day offensive by su
perior li'UHsiau forces."
Russians Deny Story.
retrogrnd, Jan. W Otticial denial
that the Kussians had been defeated in
liio Ciiunniis and in I'ersin wus made
by the war office todav.
"Contiwry to reports," said the
statement, "our new offensive on both
fronts is developing favorablv. We
I have suffered only small losses mid
I have made heavy captures. We have
j annihilated wholn regiments."
Peace Negotiations Off.
j London, Jan. 1U. fence negotiations
j between Austria and Montenegro have,
been broken off, according to an mi
j confirmed Home wireless message to
jday. This .said that reports of the sur
render or tlm Montenegrin army weie
"premature,"
Though it is possible the Home re
port is true, it was ac. epted here cau
tiously ind reservedly in view of the
confirmation of the 'Montenegrin sur
render, by Montenegrin diplomats in
Home and 1'aris.
Germans Enormous Loss.
London, .In n. ID. (leriuim casualties
have mounted to the tremendous num
ber of a.'iijJiW, under Secretary Ten
nant linnoiinced today in the house of
commons. In this number were CKI,0o'0
killed and 1, 51111,.") 1!) wounded.
This left as missing.
Bad Weather Checks Them.
London, Jan. Ill u,.i,.f expedition
Luxes boi'inl for Ktitel-amnia nuve
been in. able to make further piogiejs
because of "nlrncinns" iv-onllw.v ;S...
rotary for India Chamberlain announc
ed today in the house ol'conunons. Thy
were List icported to be six miles
away.
Fouth Africans Arrive,
rrctmiii, houth Africa, Jan. 13. T lie
f'l-.t .South African brigades s1nt to
K.'ypt have, arrived at their iKlina
tion, it was officially nnnounccd lodav.
This is the first lutim.ition that
S,-nith Afiirnu forces have been sent
into Kg,pt, presumably to meet tiio re-
uited Viirko -German invasion.
PROHIBITION KILLED HIM
Oregon City, Dr., Jan. ill. Joe Sues
ap, n Kli, kitut Indian, Is dead hero to
day, the first victim of prohibition. A
little exertion when he tried to carry
in wood icsiilted in his death. I'hysi
cinns said a drink of whiskey yester
day would have saved him. isuesnp
was .ilwnys a heavy drinker.
in 1S7.1 Kuesnp was famous through
out Oregon as a baseball player.
PREPAREDNESS
SW " f "Wf " V $ y- PRESIDENT WILSON "Y "
Colonel, roosbvcl-t v j( w ,h " r
r lv . -" Ux s A
f - Mflf. fis ! , ' Si;v:--?a:fi:;!ia:'
I', , I . . I . :m'im4
RfPfSESeAJTATIVE GARDNER -- SENATCf? CHAMOcR LAIN
Washington, U. C., Jan. 10. (.Spe
cial.) National preparedness has be
coiuo tiio most vit.il issue before the
American people. President Wilson is
insisting that legislation must be en
acted without delay to the attainment
of this end. Many congressmen at
their homes during the holiday season,
learned how urdont is the sentiment of
their constituents on this issue.
Many plans have been proposed in
congress, and tho debates will be most
united and Interesting. The most
radical view is that held by former
President Roosevelt, who apparently
believes that tho United t.Sates should
be constantly kept on a war basis. His
program contemplates a milit.iry estab
lishment equal to that of the most pow
erful nations of Europe. The colonel
believes that in no other wny can we
safeguard our tearritory and our na
tional honor.
Exports Want More.
The program introduced in congress
by President Wilson constitutes the
dem.inds of tho administration. This
program is a compromise between the
various departments of the govern
ment. However, it is clearly not ac
ceptable to many of those who partici
pated in its preparation. It was not
accepted by tho war staff or (he war
college and military experts believe
that it falls short of the requirements
of the present time. Tho plan for es
tablishing a continental army has been
particularly criticized, especially by
POLITICAL DEBT
Claims Governor Was After
i His Scalp Ever Since His
Appointment
SAYS HE TOLD BOARD
LEA WOULD GET PLACE
Governor Objected to Prose-
cuting Employes Saying
'You Must Hush It Up'
Jn response to tho denial of Govern
or Vitii.ycombo Hint the chief execu
tive of the state lind any influenco in
the ousting of W. Al Jones, ns secre
tary of tho statn fair board, M. Jones,
in un interview today, sUtecl that the
governor not only was responsible for
the recent action but had attempted to
control tho Bctions of the board for the
list year.
Mr. Jones staled tliut the governor
lind also tried to hush up the lute fair
gate ticket scandal, nnd falling in
this had tried to "get Jones' sculp"
through his Influence with tho mem
bers of tho board. As for his success
or, A. H. Lea, Jones says that this man
was named by the governor to pay off
W. Al. JONES SAYS
(Continued on Tajo l'ivc.)
NOW STANDS OUT AS
those who believe in rendering nioro ef
ficient the militia of the various states.
Congressman Augustus 1'. Gardner,
of Mass icisusetts, is' considered the
author of the present movement for na
tional preparedness, lie was the first
man in congress to agitato tho issue
and to call attention directly to our
daiigi'roiis conditfrjii of n.'ilitnry unpre
paredness and naval inefficiency Gard
ner's program is declared to be un
scientific, but it is at least interesting
and suggestive.
General Wood, chief of staff of the
army, has given particular attention
to the more technical and scientific
questions involved. Tho American
people have never been instinctively
a military class, but Wood hns insist
ed that they should at least know tho
salient features of the military art.
I'pon him will devolve the duty of do
veloping the practical ends of such a
program as congress may adopt.
Chamberlain Is Emphatic.
Ser.alor George K. Chamborlain of
Oregon, is chairman of the sennto com
mittee on military affairs, nnd will
have charge of the administration
measures in tiio senate. IIo is essen
tially in i 1 it ii it t and believes in main
taining our position regnrdless of de
velopments. One of the most notable advocates
of a rational system of national pre
paredness is Theodoro ISiuton, former
senator from lliio, who advocates a
Governor Denies That
He Directed Actions
Of State Fair Board
"I told the members of the fair board
yesterday," said the governor, "Unit.
i the chousing of their secretary rested
entirely with thcni and that it was up to
them to worii out their own problems.
Not one of them was offered any in
'duccments by me to vote any way what
soever, nor were threnls made."
The foregoing, which appeared in tho
morning papers wns the denial that
caused Neerediry V. Al. Jones to givo
out his interview toduv. The governor's
statement was given out nft-er the resig
nations of X. K. West anil J. 11. Jtoothl
fas a protest against tho ousting of W.
Al Jones lind been tendered to tne gov
ernor, I
In (he place of N. K. West, of T,a
Grand", Governor Withycombo has ap
pointed J. K. Iinynolds, also of La
Grande, a prominent stock mnn and
randier. Succeeding J, JI. liooth, of
Itoseburg, the governor hns appointed
A. (.'. Minsters, ulso of Koseburg, who
owns a Lirge stork fnrm in Douglas
county and also one In Klamath coun
ty, being heavily interested in sheep
and cattle, lie is also president of the
Itoseburg National blink, Jtoth of tho
new appointees are republicans.
"I am sincerely sorry that Mr. Booth
and Mr. West saw fit to resign," said
the governor, "as 1 have a high respect
for both. Ifowcvor, as they Insisted
there was no course open other thnn ac
cept their resignations. Mr. Mnrstors
niiil Mr. Reynolds are men of exception
al ability and will, I am sure, lend great
strength to tho fair board. Their ap
pointment gives the same representation
to southern and eastern Oregon as here
tofore existed."
When a man breathes ho uses his
mtisculur strength to ilrnw in the air,
and it is afterward forced out auto
matically. With insects, as a (iermnn
investigator hns just discovered, this
process is just reversed.
MOST VITAL ISSUE
pgllplg
General ooo i
constructive policy, perhaps typical of
average sentiment, midway between
the extremo tendencies of those who
would plnco us on a war footing and
tho advocates of peace nt any price.
Senator Burton has no sympathy with
preparation for offeusivo warfare. He
believes in such a degree of prepared
ness as is -essential to our-nntiouul de
fense, and opposes tho creation of a
military spirit which shall dominate all
the affairs of our national life. He ad
vocates tho enlargement of a. regular
army and tho reorganization and de
velopment of the national guard as an
effective adjunct to our regular mili
tary establishment. lie also lays stress
upon tho need for available officers,
thoroughly trained in tho theory and
tactics of warfare. For tills reasoijhc
ajlvocates enlarging the military and
naval academies at Annapolis nnj West
I'oint, although there is much opposi
tion to such a course.
JSiirton's uttitude is of particular in
terest because ho is preisdent of the
American Pence society. While he ad
vocates a proper system of prepared
ness, ho has not lost sight of the ulti
mate idea in tho settlement of inter
national disputes by judicial methods.
Hut however varied tho views of pre
paredness leaders, none have lost sight
of the moro practical question that the
United Htntes must be prepared to de
fend itsetf against aggression from any
source.
L
E
Carranza's Order to Show No
Mercy Strikes Terror to
Hearts of Guerrillas
FEAR OF FIRING SQUAD
DRIVES GANG TO HILLS
Enrique Cisneros Will Be Shot
and Body Exposed With
Other Dead Ones
KI Push, Texas, Jan. 10. rarranzistn
orders to show no mercy t Villistn
murderers, has struck terror to the
henrts of tho bandits. However, dis
play of tho torn corjiHes of Generals
itodrigiiei! and Hucn nllcs lit thu Juu
rex customs house as a winning to their
companions in rnplno and bloodshed
has served the salutary purpose of driv
ing them farther into tho mountains.
Meunwhile, Carran.istii authorities
aro confident that the campaign of ex
termination against Villistus will sat
isfactorily avenge the murders of IS
Americans nt Hnnta Ysnbel.
Knriipie Cisneros, captured with
finca Valles Is slated an tho next vic
tim of the Cnrraiizistn gunmen, and his
BAIT HUNT T
EP
VILLA I CORPS
HEAVY RAINS
LODDS IN
Streams That Were Falling Are Again Rising Rapidly
Breaking Dams Add to Flood's Destructiveness Jail at
San Bernardino Topples Into Stream With 150 Inmates
Natural Gas Supply Shut Off-Silt Builds Bank Arcand
Boats in Harbor.
Los Angeles, Cal., Jan. 19. Patrols in the flood zone to
day kept watch for the bodies of more possible victims of
the southern California storm. Latest revised figures
showed five persons positively known to be dead, with
four more reported dead. ...
Owing to the great number of ranches devastated, it
was believed likely that unreported deaths had occurred.
A number cf new fatalities were rumored this morning,
but none confirmed.
Doubt was thrown on the drowning of three, a man, wo
man and child between Anaheim and Fullerton yesterday.
Thorough search for their bodies failed, although a dead
horse and smashed buggy, said to be theirs was found. The
orange county sheriff's office believed the trio had been,
rescued.
No trace was discovered of the man seen struggling in
the tide near the Orange county hospital yesterday after
noon. He is still believed to have perished.
The bodies of the following drowned victims have been
recovered:
John Higginson, H. Nichoshea, Fred Smith and Alfonso
Rivere, all, ranchers. Carl Thockmorton was electrocuted.
Despite the fact that, hundreds of homes have been
abandoned and some actually swept away by the torrents,
there was little suffering on that account. Neighbors
cared for many of the homeless, and Los Angeles orphan
ages and other charitable institutions looked out for the
f Mexicans left without shelter.
The damage, taking everything into consideration, is
figured at $:5,000,000. San
$1,000,000 damage.
Los Angeles, f'al., Jan. 1!). Five
hnown deud and inunv fatalities mm-
ored, thousands homeless, ami inorol
fl,i, 4:11000 0110 .luourn 1,U Itntm Inne
ai a result of tho rain storm whicu hualdykca to try and savo their homes.
teluged southern Lulitornia lor n")
,lnv
Itain poured with increasing violence
today. Flood waters, which hu l beguu
ti recciio slightly, rose rapidly.
Collapsing dykes and dams released
wall of water in the Toniona district.
At t'larcmont an all night fight was
made to savo the Pomona college build
ings. Many orange groves were wash
ed away.
In the middle of the dclugo at Hell
Htation tho family of John (liir.ell iB
st.irving, while rescue parties risk thoir
lives in repented efforts to get a skiff
out to the marooned ranch house.
Occasionally the vktlmr, wig wag
distress signal? f.-'n, n,.er v;n lows.
The water is rising fnst.
One hundred nnd fu'ty prisoner in
the Han llernnrdino county jail narrow-
iy csi-.iiieu iiciiui wirjii inu jmou cuij
away the juil foundations, causing.
their steel cage to topple in. As tho
ivnler roared over it, turnkeys unlock-
ed the doors and the pri-ioners scram-l
bled to safety. Many had to swim for
uieir uvcr. j srore were jn, uruti,
When they got to safety they wero(C j ,,t , , ,
rounded up by armed gu.irds nod wei'O " ening Post
iii I,,l 1 H, U.,.ll.la r.u,.r,
Miles of ranch ami orange lands, dnt-L Nuw Hr,l '" Afk'r
ted with settlements, will bo smti.died imt' t uncertain fluctuation today,
bv water if the Ilcmet dam in tho 8an''''h the prices of several industrial Lv
Jacinto mountains breaks. At ln.ft to-' Hues again showing weakness, a Balling
ports it w.is weakening, I
Los Angeles Isolated,
In the towns around Mount llaldy
the daniiige is conservatively estimat
ed at $1,(1(1(1,0011.
The isolation of T.os Angeles wns
practically completed today when tho
Long lieacii tracks of the 1'iciric Klec
tric were washed out near Cato Hta
tion. This cut six more towns off from
Los Angeles. Passengers who want to
tnke the risk lire allowed to cross the
washout on a rickvty bridge, but fow
chance it.
A gas f. inline In the city wns narrow
ly averted when the natural gas mains
snapped, liy the use of old apparatus
the Los Angeles Gas nnd Kleclrie com
pany ininiedinlcly commencing niniili
f u'tiiiing enough artificial gas to sup
ply the ordinary demand.
Manager McCullocii and campers
at ( amp Utility are out of touch with
the world. The trail leading to tho re
sort has been obliterated by av.iluncli
es. Food is known to be at a low ebb
at Italdy. Hilt streaming Into the in
ner liatiior hns imbedded the steam
schooner Prentiss in a mud bank.
Dredging operations to clear out tho
debrce clinking the cluniiel will cost
nearly hall' a million dollars.
Han llernnrdino is cut off from tho
norld, only one long distnncc telephone
linn remaining,
Ketween PommiR and Lordsburg
scon's of telegraph poles nro down.
Itedlnnds Is marooned, with no light
nnd power .ind fond Is running low
there. Iordsbnrg ranchers were forc
ed to flee from their homes. Lnko Lee,
near Corona, bursts Its banks, Inundat
ing tho valley to a depth of four feet.
SWELLING
CALIFORNIA
Bernardino alone reported
.A wall of water rushed through Tcm-
csc.al canon, doing great dumige.
Hanchors near San Gabriel chopped
:lnnn vnlnnM,. ,-,il,inf t,-i,t nit.l K,,;lh
.
Oil Companlos Hard Hit.
Fullerton, Cal., Jan, I!) Heavy dam
age may bo done to tho oil fields heco
if tho rain continues. It was appar
ent today that operators faced in actu
al calamity. Hoi 1 erosioa hag exposed
many pipo lines, some of them sagging
dangorously over gullies. If these
mains break tiie pumping phots must
bo temporarily closed.
Damage Over Million.
Ilnkorsficld, Cal.. Jan, 19. Damage
to the west side oil fields was eftimat--d
nt $l,2o0,0()ll today as A rosult of
tho gulo which swept this region 43
hours ago. In Tuft the loss was $!fiO,
0(10 and in the McKittrick field .r00,.
000. Hiir builders will bn broufrht. hor
from Texas to repair thu 483 wr6fkl
dorrichs and pumps,
i j
p, 1 It 1 . tir 1 1 II
SlOCK MarKCt VlCaK and ' '
n T 1 n
. fiflCCS IXM UOWnWaril
Xew York EV
"K !".;
movement began, made up of concerted.
professional operations for a decline.
Pressure converged on war stocks, but it
caused a general weakness, Tho da
dines were irregulnr.
Tho market closed unsettled, thougfl
with Homo recovery from its lowest
-point.
Helling was not heavy in tne railroad
quarter, and as throughout tho week
thcr was no news to provoko tho move
ment. Iinilroad weekly gross earning!
showed an increase except in tho south
ern district.
Ponds continued a steady, substantial,
'well distributed business, and wcro Btill
Indifferent to the huge mass of realizing
sales from Kurope,
Rags aro going up In price, Vint no
body il wearing them blatantly.
t THE WEATHER J
Oregon: Tonight
and Tliiimlsy
g o n e r a 11 fair,
continued cold;
variable winds.
(Continued oo l'aico till.)
