THE NEBRASKA STOCKMAN SECTION OF
The Alliance
ierald
Read by Every Member Nebraska Stock Growers Association. All the News of Alliance and Western Nebraska
Official Organ Nebraska Volunteer Firemen's Association. It Reaches Headquarters for 15,000 Firemen
VOLUME I
APRIL. 1916
NUMBER 10
Minutes of Convention
By the Secretary
The twenty-fifth annual meeting of
the Western South Dakota Stock
Growers Association was held at Hot
Springs, Monday and Tuesday, April
10 and 11. 1916. What a privilege
to the rising generation and partic
ularly those raised in eastern states
to meet and touch hands with these
sturdy and sterling but fast disap
pearing characters who pioneered
this portion of the middle west,
made railroads and civilization possi
ble an 1 are today the sarre free, loy
hl and patriotic citizens as of yore.
While many of the following have
t"ori honored in state and national
erf.tii-. they retain their Indivlduali
,i -nd are known to their friends as
.linmy Crai'-;. Charlie Coffee. Charlie
m.'lKf Humphrey, Ed Stenger,
Si-rtv West, Harry Brindley, Tom
..( s". Uli'y Horst. Ben Ash, Jack
Hale. Hank Simmons, John Hart,
.lack Da'i. y, Frank Stewart. John i
nrninm. Di k Stirks and many oth-
crj.
,Vr.jtir advanced civilization and!
customs, the accumulation of hard
enrned fortunes nor the grey hairs c
caused by hardships and exposure j
can change 1 ho sunny disposition and
ii"nui!i friendship of these old tlm
n. l)uii:ig the meeting were over
heat 1 (ii vusions and reminiscences
of ; went -live, thirty and even forty
y-ir. a;io when these selfsame men
stood side by side and defended their
insignificant worldly possessions
from attacks of the now peaceable
ond civilized Indian tribes.
The attendance at this meeting
was about 2.000, of which about 400
were stockmen. The affairs of the
organization are in good financial
condition and there is every indica
tion of a large increase in member
ship for the ensuing year. The fol
lowing officers were elected and the
report of the secretary-treasurer, as
given below, was unanimously adopt
ed. Kxecutlve Committee
Jas. T. Craig, president. Belle
Fourche, South Dakota; A. Johnson,
Farland, North Dakota; A. L. Mar
tin. Sentinel Butte, North Dakota;
William Borst, Pierre, South Dako
ta; I. M. Humphrey, Rapid City,
South Dakota; Wm. H. Reed, Wasta.
South Dakota; C. F. Coffee. Chadron,
Nebraska; Thomas Jones, Midland,
South Dakota; J. L. Driskill, Sr.,
Spearflsh, South Dakota; Jno. R.
Brenan, Pine Ridge. South Dakota;
Charles Ham, vice president. Pied
mont .South Dakota: F. R. Tommy
hawk, Bullhead. South Dakota; T.
Keffeler, Mikkelson, North Dakota;
s-eiuK on the I uiioiis
Hie. Nebraska Sandhills
Where there- more 01 jiivihk ""jliance tiarape, wvwrry
E. Anderson, Eagle Butte, South Da
kota; Edward Steneer, Hermosa,
South Dakota; Fred H. Sears, Belvl
dere. South Dakota; J. D. Hale, stur
glii, South Dakota; H. P. Slnn-ions.
Manderson, South Dakota; E. A.
Jackson, Dallas. South Dakota: F. M
Stewart, secretary-treasurer, Buffalo
Gap, South Dakota.
SecretJiry-Ti-eusurer's IU'xrt
Hot Springs. South Dakota. April
10. 1916. To the members or the
Western South Dakota Stock Grow
ers Association.
Gentlemen: The twenty-fifth an
nual meeting of your organization
must recall to the minds of some of
those present, the congrecatlng of a
1 ----- - v-zL nrl , -r-v
: ' a.
STIfv'.IT M'l.NK OS A itlSV lAY IN A 1.1,1 A ( 'I'.
The Stitrkmi'ii's 'tuiventioo ft hv held here In June. Are iui pre
paring to attend this meeting? You lire welcome
few stockmen at the court house at
Rapid City, on February 20. 1892,
at which time a temporary organiza
tion was perfected which was made
permanent on April 6. of that year.
The growth of the Association was
gradual and increased from thirty
six members in 1892 to 677 in 1902
and an average of between 500 and
600 was continued until 1909 when
the influx of settlers rendered impos
sible a continuation of the range
stock business except on a very small
scale. We had 157 listed members
In 1915.
The history of the organization is
somewhat remarkable from the fact
that there has never been two per
sons named for an othce and the roll
has never been called in an election.
You have had but four presidents.
imiJ
Kverett Ildicl Itaiuli, Thiity Miles Sulheast of Alliaoe. in the l-lncst Cattle i'ountiy in (lit World,
numnui
Messrs. Godard. Howard. Dawson and
Craig; five vice presidents, Messrs.
Fred Holcoine, Jno. I). Stevens, Daw
son, Craig and Ham. The latter held
the same ollice in the temporary or
ganization twenty-five years auo. But
one secretary-treasurer has ever
served you.
During the life time of the organ
ization almost $10,000,000 worth of
cattle have been recovered for our
members at the market points. This
work was done at a cost of about
$100,000. while $50,000 was expend
ed in mime detective work and pre
cautions. Your Interests have been J
represented and safeguarded In the,
state It eislat tiles, before the depart-
;- f Lra
ment of agriculture, public lands
commission, commissioner of Indian
affairs, inter-state commerce commis
sion and other branches of the feder
al government and has ht Id member
ship in the American National Live
Stock Association since its inception
There are many conditions which
are responsible for the depreciation
in our membership, herd law. the set
tlement of the range, several suc
ceeding years of drouth, the compul
sory increase in the assessment, on
horses and cattle in 1912 and last
but by far the most fatal is the gr-it-uituous
protection which our inspect
ors have with the sanction of our of
ficers been giving to non-me bers.
In explanation of this feature will
(Continued on pane 6)
. : , - - ... .... ... - . ...
Pxiimini-'i nnnrter nntre ndltist church .has returned from a trit'l nil I 111 n inn
Hot Spring Round-Up
By the Editor
To one accustomed to attending
the annual conventions of the Ne
braska Stock Glowers Association at
Alliance it was impossible to not
make comparisons when attending
the twenty-fifth annual convention of
the Wt stern South Dakota Stock
Growers Association, held at Hot
Springs, on the 10th and 11th of
this month. Except for the fact that
the attendance at the South Dakota
convention was not as large and the
sports program not as extensive as at
Alliance, the conventions were ti..ue
timilar.
South Dakota ranchmen. ts we. I a1
hoi' In Nebraska, are a tine lot to
iilcel. Alid the pet. pie of Hot
Sp. incs. a cusitinied to eii.eriaining
i. Mors, hcenied to make an evra ef
fort on skis occasion to ;diow their
itoM'Haliiy. The system with whi' It
lie business of the association an I
iXicutive coiliiitlee meetings was
i riHisai led is worthy of special t:ien
lion. ( 'oionii.ioii Men Prex-nt
llotli Muiaha and Sioux City live
stock markets were well represented
by a Pullman car load of brokers
froiu each place. The S'iux City
crowd made good use of the oppoi
tu"l'y to adverti' tlv ir :-';:c',;v :wl
feeder show to be put on next f ill,
and th South Omaha men gave out
information regarding their market,
the second largest in the I'n.i'ed
States in the number of head of live
iiock handled.
Following is a list of the names of
those present from each of the two
places:
The Omaha Delegation
E. Buckingham, vice president,
general manager, Union Stock Yards;
Jas. Burns, cattle salesman, L. E.
Roberta & Co.; E. W. Cahow, vice
president. Great Western Commis
sion Co.; Fred Castle, proprietor Cas
tle Hotel; Fred W. Clarke, president,
Nebraska National Bank; J. F. Coad.
Jr., president. Packers National
Bank; F. L. Crone, cattle salesman,
Rosenbaum Bros. & Co.; T. J. Dona
hue, president and cattle salesman.
Donahue-Randall & Co.; A. H. Dud
ley, cattle salesman, Allen Dudley &
Co.; Oscar Daugherty, brand Inspect
or; F. Enerson. assistant cashier.
Stock Yards Natiomil Bank; W. H.
Haime, salesman. Wood BroB. ; Ralph
Jennings, superintendent, Fremont
Stock Yards: U. F. Marcy. manager.
Farris-Marcy Co.; Geo. N. Neff. pres
ident, Journal Stockman Publishing
Co.; Albert Noe. cattle salesman,
(Continued on page 2)
-Mr.
F
