i i
!f
The Commoner
VOL. 16, NO. 4
Lincoln, Nebraska, April, 1916
Whole Number 684
THE DEMOCRATS SHOULD WIN
A Forecast of the 1916 Election by W. J. Bryan, in New York Independent
No one who lias had any considerable experi
ence in politics will risk an opinion on platforms
very far in advance of the conventions, especially
at a time like this when the situation is under
going constant change. Who could have fore
seen in 1912 the problems with which the ad
ministration has had to deal? And who could
have predicted a year ago the changes which
have taken place in the opinions of men within
the last twelve months? The qualifying phrase,
"other things being equal," affords some protec
tion, but, as other things are never equal, fore
casts are always subject to discount. If the cam
paign of 191G could be fought upon the party's
remarkable record of achievement, a democratic
, victory ought to be reasonably sure; but even
then, it would be necessary to femember that we
wonin 1912 not because our party secured a
majority of the, votes cast, but because, the oppo
sitiou was divided into two almost equal factions.
There are three factors which must be taken
Into consideration in our calculations respecting
the outcome of the presidential election of
1916; first, the impression made by the domes
tic policies of the administration; second, the
impression made by the foreign policies of the
administration, and, third, the unity or lack of
unity in the republican party.
The democratic party can with confidence sub
mit its claims upon a number of, important re
forms. First: The popular election of senators. This
is a reform of the first magnitude; a reform in
the methods of government which could not have
been achieved a few centuries ago without vast
bloodshed. The democratic party began the fight
for this reform in congress in 1892; it embodied
a demand for it In its platform in 1900, 1904,
and in 1908, and in 1912 endorsed, the amend
ment which was then before the states for rati
fication. The republican party never endorsed
this reform in any platform prior to its submis
sion, and as late .as 1908 overwhelmingly de
feated a resolution approving it. Tho peo
ple ought to give the democratic party credit for
thus opening the way to other reforms.
Second; The democratic party reformed the
rules of congress and gave to the house of rep
resentatives real representative government.
The people ought to give to the party credit for
this reform also.
Third: The democratic party reduced the
tariff and put upon the statute books the best
revenue law which the country has had' in fifty
years. The tariff law included an incbme tax
and the democratic party can claim dre'dit not
only for the income tax law, but also- for the
x fact that tho constitution has beensojfjfmended
as to -authorize anilncpme tax. In i90,4?Ndemo
cratic congress enacted an income ivxrww, but
the law was "declared unconstitutional by a di
vided court, one judge changing his mind be
tween two hearings of the case. Tho democratic
party then proceeded to agitate for an amend
ment to the constitution, specifically authorizing
an income tax, and, while the necessary amend
ment was submitted under a republican admin
istration, it came as a result of democratic la
bors and was really submitted for the purpose of
preventing an income tax. The republican lead
ers who assisted in securing tho submission of
tho amendment did it to defeat a bill providing
for an income tax and did not expect the
amendment to be ratified; they were caught in
their own trap.
Fourth: The democratic party is entitled to
credit for the new currency law. Tho repub
licans had talked currency reforms for twenty
.yeargjwbutrdid nothing; the democrats went to
work, and brought about a change .which gives
Us the best currency law we have ever had. It
vindicates tho right of the government to issue
paper money; it destroys the monopoly which
tho national banks have held of favor from the
federal government; it takes, from Wall street
its controlling influence as a money center and
establishes twelve financial centers in different
parts of the country, all linked together at
Washington and controlled by responsible gov
ernment officials. The democratic party has a
right to expect gratitude from the business
world, which has been released from the grip of
the money trust, and from the political world,
which has been set free from the tyranny of a
few money magnates.
Fifth: The democratic, party deserves credit
for having entered upon a program which con
templates the complete overthrow of the prin
ciple of private monopoly; it has already made
a start and is building upon the only sure foun
dation, namely, that a private monopoly is inde
fensible and intolerable. Its services ought to.
CONTENTS
THE DEMOCRATS SHOULD WIN
THE PRESIDENT'S RENOMINATION
ASSURED
CHINA AGAIN A REPUBLIC
THE NEBRASKA CAMPAIGN
, - MR. BRYAN DEFINES THE ISSUES
BEWARE OF "OBLIGATIONS"
A-PROGRESSIVE DEMOCRATIC TICKET
DUNN SCORES SPECIAL INTERESTS
'WHY ARE WE UNPREPARED?
BACK TO THE CONSTITUTION
PRESIDENT WARNS IN MEXICAN
UJV.' rSITUATION
' THE BRYAN BEEtTHDAY PARTY
be appreciated by tho smaller corporation
which find an added senso of security in the
anti-trust laws already passed.
Sixth: The democratic party deserves credit
for the enactment of the long promised meas
ure giving to the Phillpinos the promise of In
dependence, thiiB answering tho charges that
have been made against our national purpose
and restoring to us freedom to proclaim to the
world tho doctrine that governments derive
their just powors from tho consent of tho gov
erned and not from superior force.
Seventh: These are some of the substantial
results of harmonious co-operation between a
democratic President, a democratic senate and
a democratic house. During the accomplishment
of these domestic reforms the administration
has been dealing with diplomatic problems of
great (delcftcy. It deserves credit for having re
sisted tlie demands of those who tried to force
the government into intervention in Mexico. The
policy of "watchful' waiting" has saved us un
told loss in life and money, and It is not im
probable that by refusing to intervene this na
tion escaped the awful responsibility of
starting the European war.
Eighth: The democratic party deserves credit
also for the fact that it has not allowed the
country to bo drawn into the European war, al
though the course of neutrality has been beset
by many difficulties. Our nation has suffered at
the hands of both sides, but the injuries were
not intended against us, they were Incidental
to the war which belligerent nations are waging
against each other.
Ninth: This administration has very much im
proved our relations with Latin America. A
policy of friendly co-operation has been substi
tuted for dollar diplomacy, the legations in Ar
gentina and Chile have been raised to embassies,
the offer of mediation tendered by Brazil, Ar
gentina and Chile was accepted in the dispute
with Mexico, important treaties have been ne
gotiated with Nicaragua, Colombia and Hayti,
and all South and Central America has been
brought to the cordial support bf the Monroe
Doctrine.
Tenth: The democratic party deserves credit
for the negotiation, by this administration, of
thirty treaties, on a new plan, providing for in
vestigation by an international tribunal of all
disputes of every kind before any declaration of
war or commencement of hostilities. These
treaties are with nations exercising authority
over one billion, three hundred million people,
or three-fourths of the inhabitants of the world,
and make war between the contracting parties
a remote possibility.
On the subject of preparedness the record of
the party has not yet been made up. The Pres
ident has announced a program and made a non
partisan appeal in its behalf. According te
a.i
ftus2ii
