1
The Intelligent, common sense
workingmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with a picture or a dream.—-Gom
pers.
VOL. 23, NO. 34.
UFOLLETTETALKS UNION LIBOR PLANS
ion of the seamen's law, which would
weaken and destroy, its efficiency.
President Stands Pat.
"I was out in the western country,
a long ways from the capital, but
caused an inquiry to be made at
W ashington and a reassuring answer
ame from the White house. 'If,' said
President Wilson, 'the American mer­
chant marine cannot live under that
just law—just to American seamen
and just to the American public—it
ought to die.'
"There isn't a line in it but what
will be helpful in building up a mer­
chant marine. Every line in it is
in the interests of the American pub­
lic for human life at sea and for jus­
tice to the American seaman. There
was only one small body of men
under this flag of ours who had not
the protection of the Thirteenth
amendment to the constitution.
"Do you know that every American
-seaman sailing the high seas was
subject to imprisonment if he quit
work? Think of it for just one mo­
ment. Do you know what the effect
was? It was driving every American
boy who had a love for the sea to
find something else, with the result
that American sailors were sup­
planted by Japanese, Chinese and
men from the Mediterranean who
emild be employed at $8 a month.
Wisconsin Senat^Scores Critics American Federation of Labor
of Measure Sj* t^kJ.ot Calls Labor Council for End
of War.
SAYS IT WILL BUILD
UP MERCHANT MARINE
MILWAUKEE, March 30.—Sena­
tor l^aFolIettc ably defended the Sea­
men's act in a powerful speech be­
fore 1,000 people here last night.
Speaking of his work in congress he
said:
"Shorter hours of labor, opposition
to child labor, and the freeing of the
American sailors through the pass­
age of the seamen's act were things
accomplished.
"I want to say a word in behalf of
the seamen's law which I know is
sood for American seamen it Is a
goo4 law for the American merchant
marine. If it can be built up at all
it will be built up under that law," he
said. It has been denounced as an
enemy of merchant marine. Let me
tell you something. Last summer,
after that bill was enacted and a cam­
paign conducted by the special inter­
ests, paid for by special interests—a
campaign through the great metro­
politan newspapers of the country
which printed denunciations and
falsehoods of the rankest sort—I
came to be apprehensive that possi­
bly even tlio administration at Wash­
ington might be misled and driven
to stand for the repeal or modifica-
Declares President Wilson Will Will Demand that Labor Have
Stand by Measure to
the Last.
Navy Is 20,000 Short.
"Our navy today is 20,000 short
in enlisted men. The American mer­
chant marine was once the leader of
all the world. The American mer­
chant marine ought to be the school­
ing place for an American navy, but
if you drive American citizens to com­
pete with $8 a month wages you will
drive them out you will drive them
off the sea. And when you have
no American sailors when you have
no American merchant marine when
you have only the cheapest men, the
cheapest labor in the world—if there
should come a time when you need a
navy where in God's name will vou
find it.
"Why did 3.517 people go down in
the Titanic disaster? That vessel,
ripped by an iceberg, lay for two
hours on a sea like glass, not a rip­
ple, and yet 1,500 souls were lost
while we, with our incompetent sea­
manship, had no provision for the
safety of human life."
When the senator apologized for
his digression from his regular
speech, a voice called "Go ahead
give us some more that's right.
You're good."
By PROF. SCOTT N EARING.
Very frequently you meet a manu­
facturer who says, "Well, the laborer
gets all he's worth." The question
is: How are we going to test worth?
Ethically, worth is virtue, but econ
^omically it must be measured in a
different way.
Ruskjn says, "There is no wealth
but life." Then, economically, if we
accept that kind of a viewpoint,
worth is measured in terms of
service, and a man is requitted for
his toil if by it he is able to live a
""""life worth living.
The Useless and Worthless.
The useful citizen is he who rend
u-s service to the community the
worthless citizen he who renders no
service.
A man laying railroad ties is worth
500 a year how much is that man
vorth who lives on the income of
\hat his father had? Such people
Lre an economic burden, and each
SAME PLACE
WITH PEACE CONGRESS
Something to Say About
Terms.
WASHINGTON, March 30.—The
American Federation of Labor's call
for labor's Avorld peace congress, to
be assembled at the same time and
place the belligerents meet to make
the terms which end the world war,
was sent out Sunday to the organ­
ized labor movement of all countries.
Proposed first by. the executive
council of the American federation
and approved at the national con­
vention in San Francisco last year,
labor's world peace congress would
be an assembly of workers to demand
that the peace delegates of the war­
ring nations determine nothing
touching the lives of the workers
without taking couns"! with them.
Effect To Be Noted.
Such an assembly of representa­
tive wage earners close by the delib­
erations of the peace delegates is ex­
pected to have a large effect on the
spirit and determination of the lat­
ter.
"In other countries," the call reads,
"thought is concentrated on the im­
mediate and compelling problems of
daily life—problems so urgent that
all else must wait on the future* We
appreciate the intense strain with
which our fellow-workers of Europe
await the outcome of the day's strug­
gle on the battlefield and the ulti­
mate decision of the war.
Issues Are At Stake.
"We are not unmindful of the is­
sues involved for which men are
shedding their blood and giving their
lives. We, too, have been confronted
by national problems which have
grown out of war conditions, and now
our great concern is that out of the
horrors, the suffering, the destruc­
tion of war there shall come greater
opportunity, freedom, and protection
for those who do the world's .work—
the toilers of all the countries.
"The-workers can refuse to -be the
victims of the blunders, the evil
plans, the ambitions of those respon­
sible for this war. In their strug­
gle against oppression have been born
yearnings for human freedom, for
better opportunities, for justice in
life and work. During the centuries
they have made progress—some­
times slow, it is true, but always pro­
gress. It has been a long fight from
slavery to the present degree of free­
dom.
Labor Demands Voice.
"In appreciation of their dignity
and value it is the duty of the wage
earners to make demands on the
world assembled in the next world
congress that nothing touching the
lives of the workers shall be deter­
mined without taking counsel with
them.
"Such a demand, made by the per­
sonal representatives of the wage
earners assembled in the same place
and at the same time as the world
peace congress, would have a tremen­
dous effect upon the spirit and the
determinations of that .congress."
STEEL CORPORATION
CUTS JUICY MELON
NEW YORK, March 30.—The an­
nual report of the United States Steel
Corporation shows that during 1915
this concern earned $140,250,000, or
an increase of $58,503,548 over the
previous year.
The annual report of the Bethle­
hem Steel company shows a net in­
come for 1915 of $17,762,812.12, as
against $5,590,020.18 in 1914. This
is equal after preferred dividends
have been paid to 112 per cent on
the common stock, as against 33 per
cent in 1914,
1
day they live throws Ihem deeper In­
to the social debt. They are worth
zero, minus the amount of money
that has been spent to rear them.
What we really mean when we say
that- a man is worth $10 a week Is
that he gets 510 a week. So many
of us say he is getting all he's worth,
when he is only getting what he can.
We do not think of him in terms of
worth, but in terms of power gained
through property.
Measure of Wage Values.
Let us consider what he gets. We
must adopt some measure of wage
values, and then show how that
measure compares with the wages
that are actually paid. Three tests
must be borne in mind. The first is
that industry must pay a sufficient
wage to keep men efficient second,
society must oppose any wage that
leads to poverty and dependence
third, the wage must b£ enough to
enable the wage-worker to^ keep his
family on a decent level*
IWWffamEPPgi'WPj^-WwgBj^^
FOE SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC
CRASSWELLER
OF
The attorneys for the city and the shriners are
having a busy time of it trying to explain their methods
in hurrying the armory referendum case to the supreme
court.
Special counsel Crassweller has advised the com­
missioners .that the city attorney has not made suf­
ficient defease of the city's position in the case and he
has asked the commissioners to authorize him to have
the case dismissed in the supreme court, to move a re­
opening of the judgment already entered in the district
court, allow the withdrawal of the city's answer and
serve a new answer altogether.
If this recommendations is agreed to it will put
the case just where it was immediately after Judge
Dancer rendered his decision.
It is believed that if Mr. Crassweller were per­
mitted to plead the city's side of the case before Judge
Dancer a decision favorable to the city wo\il'd be
rendered. It is known that Mr. Crassweller sym­
pathizes with the position taken by the armory referen­
dum petitioners and the majority members of the
charter commission, whereas Mr. Samuelson, the city
attorney, does not.
Mr. Crassweller, it is said, does not admit that only
qualified registered electors are permitted to sign
referendum petitions. Hfe believes the provision of the
charter should be liberally interpreted and that any
qualified elector who could register and vote at an
election, should one be held now, would be entitled to
sign the petition. This position is directly opposed to
that taken by the city attorney.
Mr. Crasweller. it is also said, holds to the opinion
that when a referendum petition is presented to the
city clerk containing the names of supposed electors
equal or exeeding in number 10 per cent of the total
vote cast at the last general municipal election, the
ordinance involved is then and there suspended, pro­
vided said petition is filed within the thirty-day period
provided for in the charter. This he contends is sufficient
evidence of good faith on the part of the petitioners.
It is conceded that if such a petition does not con­
tain the names of supposed electors equal at least to
10 per cent of the total number of votes cast at the last
municipal election then the ordinance becomes effective
at the expiration of the thirty-day period. The armory
referendum petition contained the names of 1,455 sup­
posed electors at the time It was filed, while but 1,322
names were required to a petition to suspend the
armory ordinance.
Then it is held by Mr. Crassweller that the city
clerk is given under the charter 10 days to verify the
names on the petition, to ascertain whether 'or aoL
sufficient number of signers are qualified electors. The
presumption is that every signer to a petition is, a
qualified elector unless it can be shown that he is not.
Massachusetts Member Feels It
Does Not Pay to Treat Men
Well.
BOSTON, March 30.—At the ban­
quet of the Boston Paper Trade asso­
ciation two sides of the social uplift
question in industry was presented.
Some of the speakers urged music in
the factory and football and baseball
as amusements, with an occasional
banquet for foremen and workers,
which was declared to be a good in­
vestment.
Congressman Winslow of Worces­
ter, however, was not impressed with
the effectiveness of social uplift. He
said workers do not appreciate the
measures adopted "in their behalf,"
and he wanted the efficiency experts
to tell him why it is that, with all
this uplift, the fellows who strike
first and stay out longest are working
in foctories that "treat them best."
Congressman Winslow protested,
against manufacturers who happened
to be enjoying temporary prosperity
paying a scale of wages above that
which the average manufacturer can
afford.
DULUTH AND SUPERIOR APRIL 1,1916.
MAKE WAGES SUFFICIENT TO SUPPLY FAMILY NEEDS AND
The wage order for most men is
established before the man enters in­
dustry. The wage of the school
teacher is fixed just as the wage of
the railroad employe is.
Two-thirds of all of the male
adults in Industry in the typical in­
dustrial state of Massachusetts
(144,000) get between
$10
and $15 a
week. Three men in every hundred
gets more than $25 a week. That is
the established rate of wages in that
state.
Less Than $12 a. Week.
Sixty-five adult males in every
hundred get less than $12 a week
33 in every hundred get between $12
and $25 a week. Twelve dollars a
week is $624 a year.
In American .industry, as a whole,
three men in*100 get over $1,250 a
year, two-thirds get less than $750,
and one-third gets less than- $500.
You can take ten wage-earners in
any industry ^ast of the Rocky
Organized Labor In Campaign To
Improve Workingmen's Com­
pensation Aca.
LANCING, Mich., March 30.—The
executive committee of the state fed­
eration of labor has decided to sub­
mit to the referendum 11 amend­
ments to the workmen's compensa­
tion law. These include increasing
rates from 50 to 66 2-3 per cent
providing for earlier and longer med
cal attendance providing for depend­
ents compensation for disfigurements
and injuries not specified in present
law, and for permanent disabilities.
The labor forward movement, now
on in this city, is proving successful.
Several unions have been organized,
and the prospects are good for unions
of retail clerks, teamsters, postoffice
clerks, 1 undry workers, bakers, iron
molders and cement workers.
SECTION MEN STRIKE.
DECATUR, 111., March 30.—More
than 100 section men on the Wabash
railroad are striking for $2 a day.
The present rate is $1.35.
Mountains and nine of them will be
getting less than $1,000 a year.
In the first place, is that wage
enough to maintain health and ef­
ficiency Health and efficiency for
what? For raising a family, is It
an American ideal that the boy
should grow into a man who will
earn that much? Take a man, his
wife and three children, under 14 for
example.
Experts Are Agreed.
Experts have agreed that for
such a family $6 a week must be
spent for food, $2.50 for clothing,
$2.50 for rent, 80 cents for fuel and
light and then $2 for insurance,
health, furniture, recreation, educa­
tion, and so on—a total of $14 a
week, in one important industrial
town in New England, among the
adult male workers, 16 in 100 get less
than $300 yearly, 60 in 100 get less
than $450, 91 in 100 get less than
$750, and only nine fn lOO get more
than $.750. ".
AND POLITICAL PROGRESS.
IN ARMORY CASE
Should the city clerk find the petition insufficient
he certifies thereto, as he did with the armory
petition, Mr.:.Crasswelier holds that the
petitioners should be given a further 10 days to make
uifsuoh insufficiency. This too is provided for in the
charter, although Mr. Jenswold,^ the attorney for the
shriners, is attempting tor-have the court decide that
the'l0-day provision does not apply to the referendum.
.None of the questions above mentioned are
sufficiently set forth by the city attorney in his
answer on appeal to the supreme court, and Mr. Crass­
weller declares "it is useless to attempt to obtain a
decision by the supreme court upon the merits, with
the record as is now stands:" Mr. Crassweller is honest
about it and practically advises the city to drop tt%3 ap­
peal unless the case can be returned to the lower court.
The city attorney has offered no explanation to the
people why he used such apparent undue haste in rush­
ing his answer to the supreme court when he knew that
petitioners had requested the commissioners to
an attorney in sympathy with the referendum to
h&dle the case. The admissions in his answer to the
supreme court have practically put him Qn the same
sidA.of the case with Mr. Jenswold, and Mr. Crass
weUer plainly sees that the case is hopeless unless the
answer is withdrawn.
Mr* Jenswold attempts to answer for the city at­
torney. He became very caustic in his reply and men­
tions something about "the employment of a special
attorney-for the purpose of harassing, annoying and de­
laying the shriners in obtaining use of the armory
property," as if this were the most important issue
involved in the controversy. The question as to who
shall* own the armory pales into insignificance as com­
pared with the greater question as to whether or not
we shall have a workable referendum under commis­
sion government.
Mr. Jenswold knows that he has a weak case in the
courts if the armory referendum matter can be heard
on its merits and presented by an attorney who is in
sympathy with the referendum. Mr. Crassweller very
fittingly replied to him when he said:—
"I have no desire to enter into a public controversy
over the legal points involved. If Mr. Jenswold de­
sires to try his lawsuits in such manner, that is his
privilegp. My purpose in filing my statement with the
city council Monday was to place the facts before the
commissioners, and not to disparage anyone or enter
into a public controversy."
£refessional ethics prevent a high class lawyer like
Mrv Crassweller from stating his real opinion about the
•?**!$& *n
which
the armory case was handled for -the
city, but observing dtizetis wtfo aire &6t lawyers liave
no hesitation in declaring that the whole proceedings
have been a farce and a sham from the beginning.
ME W ILLEGAL
Michigan Court Stretches a Point
to Invalidate Good Labor
Measure.
DETROIT, Mich., Mar. 30.—Judge
Frank Davis of Ionia county has
ruled that the Detroit minimum wage
charter amendment is illegal. This
legislation was initiated by the local
federation of labor and was made a
part of the municipal organic act last
spring by the largest vote ever given
a charter amendment. It provides
that city employes shall work only
eight hours that common laborers
on public work shall not receive less
than $2.50, and that skilled me­
chanics shall receive the highest pre­
vailing rate in that particular work.
Despite the emphatic vote this leg­
islation received, municipal authori­
ties have not looked upon it with
favor and now Judge Davis rules that
the amendment is illegal because it
"did not lie on the table before the
common council for 30 days before
being voted on," and that the amend­
ment was not placed before the gov­
ernor before being submitted to the
voters.
With a standard of living that
would guarantee physical efficiency
and health costing $750 a year, in
this town nine-tenths of the adult
male wage-workers fell below the
amount. That means that the chil­
dren work, and the women work, and
you have the problem of poverty. It
means that the wage paid by Amer­
ican industry in that town was less
than enough to enable a man to sup­
port a wife and three children.
Low Wages* of Women.
The relation between the cost of
living for the lone woman in industry
and what they get in wages is even
less. In Baltimore, as a result of an
investigation, experts figured that the
minimum amount on which a single
woman could, live decently ^ras $6.70
a week. Eighty-one per cent of the
department store women in Balti­
more get less than that.
Take the,
family in any large-city
that hsuB j^os8, income. of $850 a
year-r-and the vast majority do not
INGE'S©-}
Roosevelt Does Not Like Justice
and Will Not Support
Him
BESIDES HE WOULD NOT
LIKE TO LEAVE LIFE JOB
Not the Choice of Forward-Look­
ing Wing of the Republican
Party.
WASHINGTON, March 30.—There
are four reasons why Justice Charles
E. Hughes will not be nominated at
the republican national convention as
the party's republican-progressive
harmony candidate for president.
They are:
(1) Roosevelt does not like Hughes
and would not support him.
(2) Hughes does not like Roosevelt
and would not accept the latter's for
God-and-country platform.
(3) Hughes would not like to leave
a life job as justice of the supreme
court on the chances of getting the
presidency or defeat—unless the
chance for getting the presidency can
be made more attractive than it is
likely to be made.
(4) The republican convention "ar­
rangers" are probably not really for
Hughes, but are using him as a stalk­
ing horse in the belief that they can
trade and dicker for some "eminently
satisfactory" man of their own brand
of statesmanship.
Several Other Reasons.
There are several other reasons why
Hughes will not be nominated, but
these will accomplish the result.
One of the most remarkable things
about the Hughes boom is the fact
that it has gone ahead on the assump­
tion that Hughes would have support
of the progressives. That Hughes has
no claim on progressive confidence is
indicated by the following facts:
(1) He was appointed to the su­
preme court by President Taft, who is
not fgmed for appointing progressives
to responsible judicial jobs.
(2) He was nominated to the posi­
tion of attorney in the insurance in­
vestigation by Strong, Cadwallader &
company, from which firm Taft took
his attorney-general, George W. Wick
ersham.
Wlien. "Thieves" Pell. Out,
"(5) The insurance investigation
which made Hughes famous, was sub­
sequently discovered to be merely an
incident in a battle royal between two
financial groups each seeking posses­
sion of the vast capital of the insur­
ance companies. The expose in the
public interest was a weapon used
against the Harriman group. The
Ryan group won.
(4) As a reform governor of New
York, Hughes m&de popular primaries
his one slogan, and went out of office
with no primary law enacted, and the
Barnes-Murphy bi-partisan control
still all-powerful.
(5) During the years, when the pro­
gressives of the country were fighting
for such things as popular election of
senators, regulation of railway rates,
restraints on overcapitalization, in­
come-tax amendment, strengthening
the anti-trust law, and all the pro­
gram of labor legislation, Charles E.
Hughes was not heard to indorse or
otherwise aid in any way of these
causes.
(6) As just'oe of the supreme court
Continued on Page 3.
SUNDAY WORK ILLEGAL
EMPLOYER NEEDN'T PAY
LOUISVILLE, Ky., March 30.—•
Judge Charles T. Ray has dismissed
the petition of M. P. Fears, a minor,
whose guardian sued the S. S. Kresge
company for wages for work per­
formed on Sundays while in the em­
ploy of defendant company.
The court held that the work per­
formed by Fears was a violation of
the statute, and that "the court will
not lend its aid to further any un­
lawful practice, nor will it aid any
one to reap the benefit of an unlaw­
ful act." Fears claimed he was com­
pelled to work ten Sundays.
have that much—and subtract the
upkeep charges, and you will have
left just $42. Then he should have
insurance. Every wise business man
carries insurance on his life at least.
Then his body and those of his wife
and children represent a great in­
vestment, so he should have an in­
come charge. As for depreciation, he
has a machine it is his body and
he should have a. depreciation ac­
count to take care of the depreciation
against his body—his ability to earn
income.
Workers' Net Income.
After that is paid off the worker
should have what is called his net in­
come. Out of that the business pays
dividends, because he has taken risks.
What about the worker? Has he not
taken risks—-the risks of raising a
family?
It is the supreme risk. But his net
Income is a matter of hope. He .re­
ceives enough to pa^ hls upkeep
charges, and that'sat^Nofcusiness
'.. f« .'-.
_.:" •. -l
The working class movement to
be most effective must be conducted
by the workers themselves in the In
A Jterest of the workers. It will not
fMhe dominated by the so-called in­
tellectuals or butters-in^—Gompers.,
TWO CENTS.
Needs of Conununity Require
Study Before Money- Is Spent
Training Boys.
HOW SOUTHERN :CXTY
TACKLED QUESTION
Richmond, Va., Made Practical
Analysis of Social and Indus­
trial Situation.
How to make the work of the pub­
lic schools more practically useful in
preparing children for vocations
which they wish to follow is a ques­
tion which many cities are trying to
answer.
While the question of vocational
education is one fundamentally much
broader than the temporary need of
any locality or industry, each city
must adapt its plan to the social, in
dusti-jal and educational conditions
of the community.
The way one city has sought to
solve this problem is shown in a re­
port on a vocational education sur
very of Richmond, Va., just pub­
lished by the United States Bureau of
Labor Statistics of the Department
of Labor as its Bulletin 162. The sur­
vey hejre described was made under
the auspices of a survey committee
organized by the National society for
promotion of industrial education,
and having the co-operation of the
United States Bureau of Labor Sta­
tistics, the United State's Bureau of
Education, the Russell Sage Founda­
tion, and the school authorities and
citizens of Richmond.
Got Accurate Knowledge.
The chief purpose of this survey
was to secure for Richmond an ac­
curate knowledge of the industrial
and school facts and conditions neces­
sary in developing a plan of vocation­
al education to serve the practical
needs of children preparing for the
various vocations and of employers
and employes. A special object of.
the survey was to secure the co-op­
eration of national and local public
and private agencies in the making
of a survey which' might be useful as
a model for studies in other locali­
ties where the need of a better pro­
gram of vocational educatipn was
pressing.
The survey included a study of the
public sChool of Richmond,: Wftji
cial attention to the present Statys:
of vocational and technical' education
and the fields of employment in Rich
mond, and a study and analysis of
the occupations of men in the print
ing, building and metal trades, and of.
women in retail stores and in the to
bacco industry.
The analysis of occupations was
from the'standpoint of both Employer
and employe, and was designed es
pecially to ascertain in detail for each
occupation the conditions of employ
ment, what the occupation has to
offer the'workers, what the worker
needs to equip him properly for the
trade, what the industry gives in the
way of training, the more common
deficencie.3 of workers as seen by the!
employer and by the workers them
selves, and in detail. the specific
training which in the judgment of
the employer and worker the school
and the trade ought to give.
Co-operation Helped.
A most important and successful
of the method of the survey was
in securing the active interest and as
sistance of both employers and em­
ployes throughout the work, with
the result that it became necessary
to outline courses and organize
classes several months before the
completion of the survey.
The recommendations of the sur­
vey committee deal with the problem
of financing vocational education in
Richmond, compulsory attendance,
types of schools and courses of study
for boys and men, and for girls and
women prevocational education for
boys, and the place of private insti­
tutions receiving city moneys in the
general plan for vocational education.
The survey committee found' a
definite need for the offering of edu­
cational facilities for men and bpys
already employed. It was evident
Continued on Pace 2.
man would attempt to run his bust*
ness on that basis.
The labor market is so regulated
that the man with a family competes
with the man without a family, and
the lowest bidder sets -the rate. -. The
single man sets the standard forvtha
married man, and the manufacturer,
accepts the price of the lowest bidder.
Single Men's Wages.
The single man gets as much -as the
man with three children to support.
Is it true or not that we want men
and women to raise families in this
country? if so, the only way to.do
it is to give a man income in.propor
tion to his tamfly needs, and which
increases with" them.. -The present'
system fails to provide for the chil-'
dren who will be
(the
a
i.
if
t.
I
ill
3
:i
next. genera-j
tion of workers^ If. we are to stand
as a nation, we liare got to reward
a man according.to- his family, needs]
and according tO the obligatiouB lie
has assumed, 4»nd Recording to ,th
