0
FINANCIAL EDITION
iJitilQtt
POSTSCRIPT
EDITION
iatenma
POSTSCRIPT
EDITION
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, APBIL 1, lftlG.
dormant, 161tf, t ins rostra Ltnoin CoiiMNt.
PRICE oot coDipxr-
)Ii. TJ.-NO. 172
Biff BBs jpCb
(GER DEMANDS $50,000,000
0TGIVE CITY TAYLOR PLAN;
pOPLE ASK TWINING TO QUIT
l "n ir .1 C I
irose lviemioer 01
Councils Will Introduce Amend
ment to Loan
Meeting on
WR DEMANDS TAYLOR PLAN;
WINING SHOULD
)cmaml for resignation of Trnn.lt
P-u.. oD(,Anintinn9 nf citizens in
e in central sections, in donouncinsr bobtail subway idea ana post-
fcment of work on yu, - ;r
F'Twinlnc. when askea n no win
etopmonts" of tho near future.
IKaW rniinpllmnn Seecr. Penrose
ndment to Loan Ordinance "at finance ! ommiiteu "
Iffirtho transit item 'providing $35,000,000 for constr
KSooWo.which, with tno SG.OO&.OOO already approprir
Relent to carry out complete Taylor plan, ndoption of wh
jy.'-wv w --- . , -- . TiK
idment to Loan urainnnco uv. f
Sescr.
.
l .1 A'tr. mmoHlntn nnnronriation of $50,000,000 to carry out the
f-lor rapid transit plan was made
. a powerful Penrose leader, no
i plan for which ttiey voica last
diverted for any other purpose. m . .
. .. i i t !... ..,:nno)!nn nf TVnnait. Director Twininc
A u Mnni nnH the
iinusa nicii ui " """"
would depend upon "what happens" were ine acvciopmuma , ...
jtwn i-iio irtl
ho definite .stand taken by Mr. Soger and Councilmen and business men
.,!.. t, m-ooonf. transit muddle
will be able to get the kind of transit they arc striving for. It is prc-
F" . .. .7 r..i.. r rn..nnilc Plnnnrn Pnmmittee will show
id that the meeting on luuuuu? u. vw.o ......... . -
tno- nf linnds nnd the political bugaboo which has been threatening, tho
lo situation will bo ripped out of the
.. -urnn nvi-rv iioHtlcal Indaction to- ,
. thni tho nlistnirtloniRts 'nould be com-
6i,i tr, mnvB tho so-cnllod obstnctes
Id comply with .tho request ot the pco-
In view or tno atanu ratten uy ....
I&cr.
THE SEOnn STATEMENT.
Mr. Seger ealdt .
-I propose on aionaay. at me ipqeu" "'
..Wnance Committee, to offer an amend-
B. i... i,a trunltLlruia- ofdlnance- in-
...w w '; .-i-T;;.,. ....,-, fmnv
;.ooo.OOO to 160.000,000; and la conne-
hi -nltli thla amendment t- propose .
fep.,an nmeitdment, deftnlrithe routes oa.
Iiowi: i -
I'Tdlvrd tho contitructlan anq improve
Int Of all or JHiy Of the RUbrdys. tUri.
t railways. elevateu,raiiwuy, mm v"";'
Iislt facilities, desprlbed as MHowb, to
kr with the necessary real estate nna
ll estate easements requlrd. in connec-
)jj there with:
EMi-nt A Buhwav railway In Broad
street frpm Leapuee Island to Olney
avenue with four-track capacity be
tween McFerran street and Spruce
Street, and with tho necessary branch
llne-i northeast nnd northwest from
Broad street;--also a subway railway
fn Arch Ptreet. 8th street and Locust
treet formlnir a delhery loop and
Iconnectlne with tho Broad street sub-
IP ,! . AnH Anh atrant nnn at
or near Locust street.
Front and Arch strjseta to Ilhawn
Istreet, via ront street, tvenmnsiuii
irm i nnd Frankford avenue to
blhawn street j , ,
I jtjuu All C;ieaieu iuiinj . ", '"
k point at or near 30th and Market
RtreeiH or jv"i w,l4 ow- "- ---
Lxtendins thence Into Darby.
Fomth. A sunway rnuwuy ..
U.A.oth thn PmUuav from a point of
lonnoctlon with the Broad street sub-
Ivay at OP near wic hj - -
s-aipmoimt nark near the Green street
hnrance; and -on etented railway con-
lecflns tne same, sieuuint. n""-"
Continued on Paie Two, Column One
CHILDREN PERISH
FIRE; MOTHER HURT
lortti Scrpnton Woman Seri-
lously Burned AVhile Trying
to Rescue Little victims
'RrnAVTON. Pa.. Anrll 1. Five chll-
en"Wre burne4 to death 'early today In
a.. .. i.iAti HAnrrnvi.fi thA home of Pat-
Zk. Marlon in North Scranton. All the
illrfrei) we of the Merlon family and
ere unter JO yearn
Mrl, Marlon, me momer, wan aenouoiy
irrysd In trying to rescue her children.
unnln? to the room whero the children
eot aha k tabbed the two youngest In her
nn an4 leaped frpm the second floor to
it ground Tne ponce lounu mem Mtrau
her arms. They were suffocated when
lii' picked them Up.
THE WEATHER
Ther Is one form of speech which wo
rn Jljrop now for tne year, ivb -no ong-
l "SprlpgrB cominK were in u. apu wo
fcreby -vow that we will not mention the
nird SDrlnK" acalrt thla year. We're
xWfh with it. It's stale. Ifa "old stuff."
tne, current biuhb ui wiu uajt. tvita.
yau now set wurseives to iuikhuoui,
-Summer I The weather and the
Feather. talkers are born futurists; It Is
p?rrnai tt euinn ui.---fi i mwayp nm
ta O. Wne pwaiiuw loi april'U ti
Aeq 8) Summer One cold night In Au-ut-f-and
It a Autumn I
FpberVs only one trouble' with the nian
iq u4 entirely in uie luiyru, uuu wu
that he's usually wronsr. -.
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinitq--
r; TlilH (vniynd
IOST ANTJt POUND
WATCH AND IfOW Lpt iljrtb 30.
eiL 8 ana ui 9, m , enur in ucaaiiuc
la 'T-1
13J omiivn wr, wtweea iuouu ie-
and lain una Market; nana fngnved
cmur p'Y WfllV 4. (4H, V4H
WATCH XB- Lost Wlody oIM
jsa llras.d 4 Ovtnut SU4 .Pna
Dikot lt Mo4 IViind A(N oil l'uitt J5
vpp Explains to
.v! ' - i"-kw wi4--r--r
nuance vjumimubcc
Resolution at
Monday
QUIT, Cicjr uiturro
Director Twinine Bprcnds throuRh-
an ouujihk "''"""." ? -.
- .---- (
ivawi, o, ..v. "... r,-
leauer, aniipum:s u ",".:
- .nn rvtwimtf-ton TnflOT.inr nionnuvi
.,... --" --- -,- -k
,,.,,!"i"7 r r-.:rrj ... ni i..
prnuuu, win uu
which is urged
today by Select Councilman Charles
aeciarea mu iuj..c M,u -v .....
iiuywuu" " "-
renlv bv jVIr. Twinine that his rcsig-
.. ,, , . i i j s-
icaas 10 ine ouuei uiuu mu ..u.o ,
situation.
LIFE IN JAIL AS
PIRATE FACES '
MARINE BANDIT
I ,
Genman -Jio'Oaptured
British-phip to' Be Turned
- Over to'U. S. Court
CHEERED IN THIS CITY
rhqtoicraphs llluntrotlnir the follonlnc tory
are tnoivn an the back pan.
Erneet Schiller, the youns German who,
single-handed, "captured" the British
steamship Mntoppo ott Sandy Hoolc after
he had hidden hlmseir on ooaru ner aa a
stowaway and held her crew at. bay
for 20-odd hours, passed through thia
city today, guarded by heavily armed de
tectho, on His way to Iew York.
Schiller wilt bo handed over to the Fed
eral authorities In New York city today.
He Is perfectly content, he says, to be
tried under the piracy laws of tho United
States and bont to prison for life. What
ho dreaded was being turned over to Eng
land. The punishment for piracy Is lire
Imprisonment.
So the tall blond sea bandit won't be
taken to England "to be shot In the Tower
of Iondon," as he feared. Tho Matoppo
continues her Interrupted loyoge. New
York to Vladivostok, today without him.
"GETS MAUKKTANIA NEXT"
Schiller, on board the Old Tolnt Com
fort express, arrived In Philadelphia at
6.01 o'clock this morning. He and his
guards had boarded the train at Harring
ton. Del, after a vlld 50-mlIe ride In the
dark In a touring car. undertaken when
It was feared some of his friends would
attempt to liberate him from his flimsy
place of Imprisonment In Lewes, Del ,
where he was taken after his arrest, It
had also been feared that an attempt
would be made to have him released on
habeas corpus proceedings.
As the train reached Broad Street Sta
tion ho was besieged by commercial trav
elers and trainmen, who begged him to
sign his autograph on envelopes, packages,
hatboxes or on the ends of newspapers.
"I thank you all," said Schiller In a
loud military tone as he sood at one of
the windows of the smoking car.
"Good luck to you,' "shouted several
alighting passengers.
"My next ship will be the Mauretanla."
answered Schiller to the cheering crowd
as the train continued on to New York.
The applauding crowds however. dld.n't
wish Schiller" good fortune In his next
enternrlse.
Schiller arrived In New York at 7lZ
o'clock this morning. He was Immediately
put Into a iaxlcab and hurried to police
headquarters to be questioned by Captain
Tunney, of the "Bomb Squad." v
FEARED HABEAS CORPUS.
The removal of Schiller from the Lewes
jail came after Justice of the Peace
Napoleon Bonaparte Register had re
ceived a report from good sources that
two parties, one from Washington and the
Other from New York, were speeding ai
Lewes to start habeas corpus proceedings
to free Schlljer. The Information re
ceived by Justice Register was that the
writ would be swprn out In the George
town courts. A long-distance telephone
conference between DetectUe Valentine
Correll, of New Yori., and Captain Tun
ney was held
The authorities realized that habeas
corpus proceedings would probably result
In delay While the Lewes authorities
were in a quandary as to what to do, a
telephone message was received Irooi Cap
tain Tunnel' that evidence as being un
earthed showing that Schiller was Impli
cated in som.e of the explosions on plent
In Now York
Earlier M) the day two mysterious Cff r-
mans made Jtbelr appearance, at Rodnfre
1 Hotel and openly announced to euesta that
;thay were ready to contribute toward a
fund with which to fight for a writ n
scBiner s oensiE
SS nsLtittyins. mAlXtira B.ld olhfir u.fifa.r
nir mm m'uj-u tiir.innrtinu- the u.iin tail.
CwUmutl e Pa Ttra, Coliunn Thrte
His Frieud Birsky
QUEKN WILHELMINA
Hollnml'a ruler has called a spe
cial session of Parliament to
consider submarine attacks on
Dutch shipping.
DUTCH DEPUTIES
IN EXTRA SESSION
ON U-BOAT ISSUE
Holland Eeported Ready to
Take Up Formally Tur-
bantia Torpedoing
QUEEN STOPS FURLOUGHS
LONDON, April 1.
Both houses of the 'Dutch Parliament
have been summoned by telegraph lo meet
In' special session Sunday to consider the
slnhlnsr of the Dutch liner Tubantta, tile
mUoiW nil TalUl'itvOna.terlal.
Ti'atclt' safd. hnd lh, Queen has .caheole'd
t mllltarK-turlbughp;. TJJ? slfuntlon Is"
,a!d. to have grown vn5oro critical follow
Ihg a meeting of the highest ofHclalB pf
tho army and iia.vy. who were In session
all day yesterday.
Because nil direct cables between Lon
don and Holland harf been put out of
commission by a seveA storm It Is Im
possible to obtain early -verification of tho
Central News report. All dispatches re
garding Dutch affairs have been coming
for soeral days from Copenhagen aiier
haUng been telegraphed from Tho Hague.
Tho latest advices from The Hague said
the German Minister had assured the For
eign Office that no German submarine
could ha.e sunk the Tubantla.
WAITE'S LAWYER WILL
REQUEST SANITY TEST
Doctor Accused of Poisoning
Peck Will Be Arraigned
Monday
' 'NEW YORK. April 1. When Dr. Ar
thur Warren Walte Is arraigned on the
Indictment charging htm with the murder
of his millionaire father-in-law, John E.
Peck, of Gmpd Ruplds. his attorney will
ask that he be recommitted to Bcllevue
Hospital for examination as to his sanity,
It was stated today,
Walte will probably be arraigned Mon
day. It Is expected tho sanity examina
tion win extend over a period ot six weeks.
With Walte resigned to death .In the
electric vhalr and declaring he Is as sape
as any man, the faith ot Mrs. Margaret
Horton, his ''studio" companion, remains
firm.
"My faith in Doctor Wnlto Is still un
shaken," she tpld a group of newspaper
men. She b still anxious to visit Walte, but
Is denied permission.
The money Doctor Walte gave Eugene
Oliver Kane, embalmer, to swear arsenic
was used in the embalming fluid, has been
dug up from Its cache on Long Island
The tin can recovered, however, contained
only $7800 Instead of $9000.
Kane and Detective Cunnlff are expect
ed In New York today Kane w(U be ques
tioned as to what became of the Jl.'OO
missing from the roll. He told Cunnlff
that he never counted the mony, and said
It was 49000 because Doctor Walte told
him It was that amount at the time of
payment This explanation does not sat
isfjj the Dlctrlct Attorney's oftlce.
UN ZEPPELIN FSTATO
ABBATTUTO SUL TAMIGI
I Tedeschi Attaccano Ancora il
, Forte Vaux e, la Ferroyja
di Parigi
Vn comunleato ufflclale pnbbilcafa a.
Londra oggl dice che una del cinque Zep.
pelln che attaccarono la coste lnglesl lerl
sera fu abbcttuto dai connonl speelajl jn
gleal e cadde nell'estimrlo del Tamlgl, a
45 mlglia da Londra -1eo.ulppagglo deJUo
ZeDoeltn si arrese prlgionlSro ed il grand
driglblle, cne era del tlpo -plu grande ei
piu recent che. la uermania aooia, ai
fondo' dopo essersi sfasclato. L'allarrae
per 1'atu.cco ra 'stato data a Londra
mentro la. foUa. si reva. al teatri. ma
pon vl fu. panlep II Zjppelln dlstrutto e'
It Drlmo abbattuto Bulla costa lngltw ed
il 2 6 mo dlrlgltlle tedescp diatrutto durante
I la fiUeJETS.
I (LsKireia in i. pagina le ultfiiie e plu
deU3Kllaf uotlzle uUa guerrs. In itaU-
ahO-J
Whyle Joys
VILLA, CRIPPLED, LIMPS WAY
TO SAFETY AMONG HILLS, WITH
U.S. TROOPS HOT ON HIS HEELS
Bandit Chieftain, Badly Wounded and
Boi'ne Over Rough Country in
Carriage, Has Little Chance
to Escape Dodd's Men
"With Villa permancAtly wounded, Lopez disabled and Hernandez dead,
tho Villa forceis have suffered a serioUB blow."
This is the sentiment in Washington nnd on the Mexican border today
following Colonel Dodd's victory of Wednesday over a forco of BOO Vlllistas
on San Gcronimo Rnnch, near Guerrero.
Villa is badly wounded, permanently, all dispatches say, and to such
extent thnt he cannot make his flight on horseback, as is his wont, but must
be taken in a carriage. This will facilitate the hunt. The country about
Guerrero is rough. Such conveyance is risky and tedious.
Hourly is expected tho flash that Villa is caught. It took 4H nours to
' send the news of the battle of Snn Gcronimo. Even now Villa may be in
' ho hnnria of tho Amnricnns and the news on the way.
The outlaw was lifted into a carringe when the surprise attack on his
camp started, and throughout the long chase he was driven at breakneck
speed ahead of his fugitive band. It was learned afterward from Mexicans
that he had robbed ranchers to feed his tattered nrmy, that he could not rido
because one leg had been broken and a bullet had shattered his hip.
Villa is said to have been wounded in a clash with Carrnnzlstns some
days ago at Namiquipa. Other reports say he was hurt in an attack on the
Cnrranza garrison at Guerrero. At any rate, it appears ho was not en
gaged in the San Geronimo Ranch fight, for early n the battle he fled. It is
said in some quarters that the bandit is so badly wounded ho may dio in the
mountains for lack of medical attention.
A small guard of Colonel Dodd's command was sent back over the course
of Villa's flight to accompany the four Americans who had been injured. It
was this guard that counted the 30 Mexican. dead on the way, among them
being General Hernandez, Villa's right-hand man.
At the Villa camp, whero the light had begun, the returning guard found
two machine gun3 which the surprised bandits had been unable to carry
with them ,in thoirfight, probably tho same two machine guns with which
Villa worked such havoc in Columbus on tho night of March 9. They also
found quantities of ammunition, arms, food and other paraphernalia, and
these were all brought back to the American field base.
Villa has shaved off his? mustache, so ItLaxlcans who have seen him tell
American aviators, and, otherwise disguising) himself, is now bent on escape
mthnr thnn firiit. Officers are betting 2 td 1 that ho will desert his men
and take to the hills alone,
M$ ZEPPELINS
ATTACK BRITIAN;
ONE SHOT DOWN
Lofndon and East Coast
Counties Raided 90
Bombs Dropped
ONE SHELL KILLS THREE
LONDON, April 1.
Five Zeppelins raided tho eastern
counties of Hngland last night. One of
the raiders was shot down and the crew
made prisoners. About 90 bombs were
dropped by, the airships, which pursued
separate courses and attacked different
places. One bomb killed three persons and
wounded seven others.
The destruction of the Zeppelin was an
nounced by1 the Admiralty today.
Severely damaged, the German raider
had to descend to the surface of the water
oft thenEstuary of the Thames. Its crew
surrendered, and an attempt was made
to tow the Zeppelin to shore, but It broke
up.
The following official statement was Is
sued by the Admiralty today:
"During 'the night a damaged Zeppe
lin was -observed to descend off the
Thames. It surrendered on the approach
of patrol .vessels. Tie crew taken off.
The airship was taken in tow. but she
subsequently broke up and sank."
Tho disposition of tho captured Zeppe
lin crew has not yet been announced. In
view ot the fact that many unfortified
towns have been attacked In the arlous
raids of the German aerial squadron-), the
Government will undoubtedly bourged to
withhold from the prisoners the custom
ary privileges accorded to captured men.
The dirigible brought down Is believed
to have been the one reported over Lon
don last night. Bhortly before the theatres
began to discharge their audiences. The
Admiralty statement reporting the Zep
pelln'a destruction was not specific on that
P'nt' . .. . ..
(Though the expression "reported Is
used. It Is apparent from the -text of the
cahle that ope of tha Zeppelins raided
London ) ,...,
Thousands of persons witnessed last
night's raid. They saw the searchlights
pick up one of the German sky dread
noughts and bathe It In light while anti
aircraft batteries volleyed, surrounding
the long gas bag with smoke puffs. Aa
on previous, raids, the crowd's attitude
was nn ot curiosity rather than alarm.
A slgna) bomti from one of the raiders
killed three persons, a man, his wife and
little child, and wounded seven others, it
li unofficially j-eported Another bomb
wrecked two brick cottages, adjoining, but
the occupants had marvelous escapes.
A complete statement on the casualties
will be issued as soon as other localities
raided are heard from. About SO bombs
were dropped
The raiders approach was first signaled
from the northeast coat at S p. m The
London theatres were flUbur. for the eye
ning. The word ran through the (theatre
midiknces tht Zeppelins were, approach-
I ing, hut'therowas no panic and few pr-
son Jiv V"":, "" ,
The'nJsht "W9 Meal fo a SSeppln raid.
There waa no wind and only a Usbt mist.
Emerging from tha jihowhouseii. tb
crowd decided1 watt, hoping for another
spectacle such, as that of last October
when the Ztppeljn UJted London, Soma,
of The Zpplte BighUeers vers In the
streets unttf 1h supper club closed at
IS 30 a m- hollas to see. a real atr
tight
6i Suburban Ife
The names of tho f oui, Americans; grounded by the Villistas nave not
been issued find tho War- Department Is ye without detailed advices con-
D01)DS -FORCES IN PURSUIT
(iJLWIlhX, HURT AND FLEEING
EL 7'ASO, Tex., April 1. Francisco
Villa, his forces routed by the American
troops In the battle at San Gcronimo, and
himself wounded, will bo unable to escape
capture or death for mjiny days. This was
the belief expressed today by United States
officers at Fort Bliss and General Gavira,
tho Carranza commander at Juarez.
Three days have passed since Wednes
day's conflict, which the Americans won
after traveling 65 mites In 17 hours along
a difficult road, and It Is expected that
the next news coming from aeneral
Pershing will be that Villa Is caught.
The outstanding fact Is that Villa's
power has been smashed. Defeated by a
force numerically smaller nnd fleeing bo
fore the "grlngoes" for whose fighting
power he had often expressed contempt,
it is believed hero that most of his follow
ers will desert him and If he attempts to
hide In one of his mountain dens his be
trayal Is certain.
The border Is still ringing with praise
of Col. George A. Dodd, who led the Amer
ican troops in their dash to San Geronimo.
Although General Pershing directed the
plan of campaign. It Is understood that
the movement which resulted In YH'a'a
defeat was made by Dodd upon his own
Initiative, he having been out of communi
cation with his superior for two days. .
The famous 7th Cavalry, Custer's old
command, responded In able fashion to
their Colonel's call for more speed In tho
dash to get Villa, and their marksman
ship In the battle resulted In heavy losses
to the Vlllistas.
Of tho Americana in the battle, none
was killed outright Four were wounded
and aeneral Dell, the commander at Fort
Bliss, has received word that one of them
was fatally Injured
Fears that have prevailed along the
border since the punitive expedition en
tered Mexico have been effectually dis
pelled' by the victory. Morbid citizens of
the border States had feared that any
reverse for the Americans would be the
signal for a general Mexican uprlslpg
that would extend even to the Mexican sec
tions on the frontier towns. This danger
has been completely averted, according to
observers here, by Colonel Dodd's brilliant
feat
'The daily rumor of a raid by Mexicans
Continued an 1'ure Two, Column SI
SLAV HOSPITAL SHIP
TORPEDOED; 115 DEAD
14 Sisters of Charity Among
Victims of U-Boat's
Unwarned Prey
PETROGRAD. April V
The Russian Hospital ship Portugal was
sunk In the Black Sea by a German sub-
marine with, the loss fit 115 lives. It was
officially announced today.
Among, the. missing ar Count Tatlst
cheft. lied Cross delegate, the Baroness.
Meyendorff, tl Sisters ot Charity and 5ft
Russian and ti French medical corps
worfra
- The portugaLsank wlthlrj a minute amid
panicky scenes A ?rS number of
wounded were yarded thore.
Thhosptal-shln waa attacked without
warpInK while ahebored near Pfiktie,
thougtMhe waj conspicuously marked with
the Red Cross Hag- Tha submarine MH
f vroav-hed t wlthla S9 yards and dejih
statement lata.
Of the rwrsons aboard the Portugal J 88
( were, resound,
Po Not Appeal
QUICK
SUBCOMMITTEE FAVORS BRANDEIS' CONFIRMATIOM1
WASHINGTON, April 1. The Senate Judiciary SuHoniinltfcfi
today voted to" recommend confirmation of Br.inMois, nominated to
the, Supreme Court bench by President Wilson.
TWO MORE SHIPS SUNK BY SUBMARINES .
LONDON, April 1. Tho Norwegian steamship Nome, 4tS tons,
has been sunk by a sUbmarluq, It was announced tills afternoon All
ineinbcrd of the 'crew were-saved. The British schooner Jolni Pritcu
ard was sunk off'the co'ast.of Giccco by1 a Bubinai?lno ou Thursday.
The crew was, saved.
2,50000 CIGARETTES
MTH-nr -vrrl.- Afl1 1 WhnntttiA
crnoon sho will cairy 42,000 pounds of
of corncob pipes to tho men in tho trenches. Tho cargo Is a gift from AtneneHk
1irmnlien1li.l)nlnn nf Mrs Clnm IVfialn ItlBtnn T-OIID. 'kllOVVII tO thO KOlflferS Ot
Frnnco'aa "Lady Nicotine." Mrs. Lopp
for years. She cams hero in December, soliciting donations of pipes and tobacco. 'v
With the tobacco will bo 22 tons of, canned goods for tho 'American Ambulance
Hospital Jn France, collected by Mrs. Lopp's husband. .
ASQUITH TO VISIT THE POPE
ROME, April 1. Announcement was mado today that Premier Asqulth
would visit Popo Benedict during tho British statesman's slay In Rome.
BRITISH CASUALTIES 2p,424 IN MARCH
LONDON, April 1. British casualties in March, ns compiled from tho puTM
Hshed lists, amounted to 1107 officers and -19,517 men.
SALONICA IMPREGNABLE, SAYS ALLIED GENERAL
ATHENS, April 1. "I do not bellovo tho Austro-Germans seilously intend
attacking Salonlca," said an Entente General to a correspondent here. "They,
have an excellent intolllgenco scrvlco in Macedonia and nro fully aware ot uuj
great strength of our positions. I do not think tho will throw away men need
lessly In trying to takoit, especially after tho Verdun oxporlenco. In respect
to a possible offenslvo by tho Entente Allies, it is impossible to say anything, r
bellovo Salonlca to bo absolutely impregnable."
CECIL DEFENDS SEIZURE OF U. S. SECURITIES
LONDON. Anrll 1. Lord Robert Cecil, tho Minister of War'tfrado, told ia
toryeWers that negotiations woro proceedthir with tho United States concerning
tho seizure of feccurltlos en rqujte to America, xno amouni seiaen runa iui w
millions of pounds' sterling.' ' ' ;a-" . j - ' ' , .?i
,rVo regard ouu action .as ovecwiicimmsii; jusifuea," aeciarou noru uuv,
'.'It 3 .impossible.!
u,u .. .uis-oyi".'
"Srnrinr-KrTTnftM fitntus '
.. ,-.-? v.. j a
:o (deny-, tne. rigntfl or DeiuEercma.jn uim rwapu" '--?'" k- "
itlcs' wore"dlnary:lciporU. .It-teleJMcflypwSletsS.tffl. jhrn-y 1
m securities tinUVSnherfr waa strong evidence that thoy came from Germariy
directly or had come thence recently and ,bqro either Gorman duty stamps
showed traces of recent dealings in Germany."
'
KING GEORGE SENDS MESSAGE OF CHEER TO IOJT
Tivrmw. Anrll l. An official announcement says the following- messag
has been .sent by King George to General
troops at Kut-el-Amara:
"I, together 'with all your fellow-countrymen, continue to follow with admira
tion tho gallant flghtlnu of tho troops under your command against great odd
Every possible effort is being made to support your splendid resistance."
TUGS TO CONVOY DUTCH MERCHANTMEN
THE HAGUE, April 1. Tho Ministry of Marina has nnnqunced that for the
protection of Dutch merchantmen from anchoied mines in tho North Sea &
regular daily service would begin on April 1 by two seagoing tugs which will
precede steamers on the route between North Hinder, on the Dutch coast and
the Galloper buoy in tho Thames estuary.
SPANISH COMPOSER MAY BE ON HOSPITAL SHP
TABIS. April 1. Tho Spanish Embassy states that, although Enrique Gran
ados, tho Spanish composer, nnd his wlfo who weie passengcis on the Susmx,
n mnnrted mlsslne. no positive confirmation of their death" was received. Th
embassy has Just been Informed that
some of tho injured from the Sussex
identity Is unknown and whose condition is such that they are etii uhabU tot
epcak. Hopes are entertained at tha embassy that these person may b
Spanish composer and his wire.
EX-GOVERNOR PENNYPACKER TO BE TAKEN HOM
Tho wish of ex-Governor Samuel W.' Penpypacker to bo at his own Jjo
has been granted by those In attendance upon him in his illness In Atlantic-City.,
and he will bo taken to Schvvenkvllle today. Ho has been unable to Jeavo hl
room In the last four days." The founer Governor wll bo taken in a rc-Ulu chair
to the station, nnd from this city will ride In an automobile to his SchwenkvitH
home. i r
,
NEW ELECTRICITY RATE IN EFFECT TODAY
A new rate for electricity went into effect in this 'city today. What th
new rate will bo has potibeen definitely decided, but a schedule will be presented
tu the Public Service Commlfaslon afIIarrisburu next, Tuesday by the Philadel
phia Electric Company.
, ,
GERMAN CRAFT SINKS HOSPITAL SHIP IN NORTH SEA
PARIS, Aprit 1. The hospital Bhlp Portugal, with a large number of
wounded aboard, has been sunk In the Black 'Sea by a airman torpedoboat or
submarine, according to ai announcement by the official press bureau fcut nisht.
It is said the Portugal had Red Cros signs conspicuously displayed.
REICHSTAG SOCIALISTS DENOUNCE SE.CEDERS
BERLIN. Anrll l.T-The Socialist party in a manifesto has declared the set
ing members out of the party A resolution, which Has atjQPfid,by & vot? of
so to 8. notes that tho seoeders hae formed .their own organization are-, receiving
party dues, and purpose tq oppose tho Socialist party; that a separate, Socialist,
organization cannot operate and tliat whoever works with it or bocojilea a metrOM
of It places himself outside the Socialist party. In another resolution the. Socialist
Executive Committee 'points out that it has been impossible $5 hold h party
together during the'war and therefore it is. the committeb's duty to deal wiQ
the seceders.
KAISER FORCED AUSTRIAN DRIVE ON ITALIAN FRONT
ROME, April 1 The Italian military intelligence department has iearad
that the Kaiser forced the Auafriana to undertake; an offensive oa tha Haln
front in spite of tlib opposition of General Conrad von Hoetsendorf, with, tha
object of preventing Italian troops frpm going; 4o France to co-operate iij tho
defense of Verdun Tho Kaiser was misinformed, since there was no plan for
tha sending of Italian troops to yerdun. Tho res,ult of the Austrian -Wfiiiv
was that the Austrian suffered, unnecessary heavy sas
4 j(. ' " Jv't ? "' "" 'y '" "' " ' "
wwAisrrrc ta atatcr new APPEAT, FOR LOAN
' "''" f,v - r -'
PARIS, April I Burins tho discussion ut the appropriation bill In th Sfeafti ,
Finance Minister Rlbot said that th& most rewt Krerteh loan womW not Ve 1
int one. Wa will again appaai to tne
t nreoara for it by a prudent pelley
t ... .... jr'. . .
I aha knows it w A cxjnatnoa -wvjprj
to Hunon Page
NEWS
'Xfcl
N."
FOR MEN IN TRENCHES v
TlnnhiimhraiU fltnrts for FrancOl this AlfcVti
tobacco, 2,500,000 cljrarettes and4z2 fffMtf
is an American who has lived InfParta ,
In "tho Clvlf War. when the North declined to allow
. . HJl l nM4.,UUtf "VAfn t.l,A uhtArt
Townshond, In command of tho British ,,ty3
ono of tho hospltnl ships which picked, up
has on board a man and a woman wlap
-- " ' v
couatry.- Ma tyu !
aiut Franca again will tm&Ht&t bta a
.j ia -h.u -- !-. s &m
diu ina tews '
B of This
i
7S.
A
