THE WEATMJER FORECAST. "
Fair to-day: ld4il ralri-night; mod
crate vHVUititi5FiTow.
tm.
IT SHINES FOK ALL
Highest temperatufrestpflHr, 63; lowest, 44,
Detailed weather, mftlMftd miK reports on pium 13,
, !
" ,)
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 214
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 1916. Copyright, 1518, bv the Sun Printing and rubUsMnaA,oc(atton.
PRICE TWO CENTS. .
T. R. AND ROOT
HEAL1912FEUD;
BACON'S GUESTS
T,o(lc and Wood Also At
tend Harmony Luncheon
Xo rolitiw." They Say.
sqhiller claims honor MALANCOURT IN ! U.S. AERO SCOUT
P tir M r - M w .l
30 OF VILLA'S BAND SLAIN
IN FIGHT WITH U. S. ARMY;
, CAPTURE NEAR, IS BELIEF
urltf; UisniiZb riKALY nUDMANUAWnC iCAWVTI.T APANH
BATTLE GROWS FLEEING EAST
Invaders Make Desperate! Fleeing Toward Chihuahua
IMi'KPAKKDNKSS TI1K
TIIKMK. ALL DKCLAHE
T. I"" US Senator F.llhtl Hoot, Sena,
tcr llentv Cabot Lodge, Robert llncon,
Major-Hen. Leonard Wood, mid last, but
by no menus least. Theodore Roosevelt
. M luncheon together ut Mr. Macon's
Y.orr. at 1 I'atk avenue erslcrday. ,
Whit they talked nbottt was Hot poll- .
Ins Col. Roosevelt Is the authority for
thi but It would bo Imrd to convince
the mm In the street that there wasn't
politic. In It. At any rate It was the
firft meeting of Hoot nnd Roosevelt
rs'e tho Republicans" ntul Ptogicsslves
fell apntt In 1JIJ.
What they ale at till luncheon M of
no Interest, but what they talked nbout
Is, it ml, so far us any of those present
would admit, the, tiilk was of prepared-no.-.-',
an Issiio that i.t hound to be the
VggeM of the coming campaign. Tills
i" ilm M.iy Col. Roosevelt explained the
n,e. .
' I ee been lunching at .Mr. l!acon'
louse u-th Mr. Hoot, Senator Isnlge and
Jen. Wood. Mr. Uacon It tho head of , jt.r th ipuiik Ceniian bo slnitle
vi'iO'K ilefence orgatilzotloni ami l handed capiuie.l the llrltlsh teamhlp
I ig'i.e them together, lie told me. he Matoppo and her crow of flfty-slx men
snj Mr. Lodge lo come on front Wnsh- on the high sen. confessed to-day that
. ict 'n so that I could meet him. Mr robbery and reonge were hit underlying
l!ot and ien. Wood, to tall; oer thelmotlM.s and that tin- Appam capture
nust in of lepartdncss for self-defcme j was his main in-pllutlou.
nd as :i means of srctirins the peace To-night Iih was whisked away in a
and ,1'jiinr of this couuliy. ami so con- nioPT i;ir to connect with a train for
l.dfr Iw.v bc.-t to proceed to awaken all New Voik nfur Infoim.itlon bad been
tur M zcrs to tli yttnl ntcil of this ' receUed that there was a plot to rescue
mneincnt for national preparedness." him.
". I'olltlcs," llnotrt rlt n.
T ie Colonel slopped light there, but
o'i f r a mtunciit. Then a gcnl.il Kleam
to his ry ami he ailded
I Mull anticipate iour next niicstion 1
t .iln that we did not dtcus poll- singer -hip l'rle for all the. money on
' ut all The cntlie comersatlon re- bouid and su.ih- his account with the
' I to th matter I have set out" Kngllsh for having urietted him in Hurt,
'o. tho l oloncl didn't kno -f ny ' linKland, us a tiermaiugo
' ' icr plans of ni'etlng with these four. He spent trrfW'wnRPWaWW
r " ll.nv long hid It betti since he 1. ting a crew of four nnd selecting tils
red Senator Hoot inel'.' ( The Colonel' prui He picked the passenger steam
I" ale e l this iuest'oi hut a si-oiid. and tup Kl Spaito as the vessel most likely
iiswclcd tint it
uio nceit aooui nxe(ll,
ars
This was the news wh.th the Colopel
:t e out at the home of tioorgc W I'ci
1. at "t I'arli incline bile in the after
r i It was the Iiit pllhllc Intimation
' Senator Itoot and t'ol. l!oo-eet
nd ever come together ataln to end
"dltlcal cstrangi-menl which fol
. niU the split of the Republican party
U. when .senator Itoot as chairman
nil of tVe liepubllcar; m ""i;. ,
P"
f i
at niemorable jvar the delegates
mil' for Hootewlt for I'lcldenl
i iote who iiltended the Hacou
. wliich bids f.t.i' to overshadow
. nous tlary dlune.. Senator Hoot
Republican leader of the State,
t' c man who did mo'ie than any '
tiling about the nomination of
' i. it T.tft. and was Sectetarv of
- 'tiller Rooscvc't; Robert Itacon
-ist.ilit See it-tart of Slate
Root. became Seculaiy of
" ii i Mr. Root resigned that post
I itt-d States Sctiator, and was
V'tihatsador to France win-it
1 t Tuft made .Mr. Knox his Sec
Stale: Senatoi- Lodge has been
;ii 'iie.en as the probable chairman of
t ' lirpui.'uMii convetitloti thi ear, and
llo M Hi'-on Is an old friend of Col.
I' evf t. who is also one of the hlggeM
'"e -i "i lendir of tin- State, and
s l --i. ti-bie-. Congressman Augus
' -iarilner, made a pilgrimage to
e Hill a few da. ago to talk
' e-iiiatiott l-i .Massachusetts with
' I. is ip I ; and Major-Hen, Wood.
" oh- a Major-fleiieial when
1- - .i .1 was President.
i. en. Wood llooiu Til I Led Of.
s another thto'y advanced In
i rters f p Hen. Wood's presence
- Inn. heon. That Is that lie Is a
' ainlldate for President on the
" ' '-i.-p.ui-diiess, hut the Hen- I
! irt , ipatlou in anthing political,
' t ot It pleases the Admin- j
!' -t Washington, Is generally
' ' e- as n suppni ter if Col
- what Ser.itor Root said when
' I ''null the luncheon: Hud he any
' iiuike? No. no. but with
- ikge-tion of a laugh in his voice
e . ne ou r the leleplr n". Hid they
' is." "No, they 'ilkcd pie-
l s no tiolllii n at all "
'I H' "o had the same to sa, point- '
11 1 it he ii al Ilm head of tho
I Security league, tin- Navy
i' '?i a il oilier organlziitlons founded
" n e and piepaniliiess. Rm ,s,
-l Met. Ken, president if the Na- .
1 ' uiity Reiigue, when told of tho
. laughed at the pieleiislon that
oes.-i ,ii:.i not isjIIUcs had beep .
Ni'ioli.it Senility l.e.jgue
' " e aii)ihnn at all about II."
We have- no know ledge of t hS
i any Inlormatloii legardlng
'c.h for which it was given."
i. i-iiiifroiiiiil with this stale.
Mi Mi liken, appealed nettled,
xnl in.'.) h saying .
Mr Menken didn't know of
"i Pecan-.! it wat not held In
i f Ho- National Si entity
-' "ie, lint lo si'iiito a gieuler
oonliu.itlon aiiiong all rle.
in- iaii-e of Ihe iiicetliig
an Illl'kS or polltlm iliil not
su rot th in so in in v word,
"i me only shed more light
gi i Col. Itoou'vell Is going to
i- up the countty lo a heroic
i'iciMiciiies and pollths are
e sain" thing ah the Colonel's-
t. and militant Aineilcnulsin
' Mi sni ii ru s.vnoii moils to
e -e i' ics.
Prepureiliii-st, Perkins Sh.
iigi V Pei kins, chairman of
c i oniinltlee of Ihe National
s
I..
'1 IWI-,
tl.
P
l
I"
pa. iv. wan told of tin a-
uul "Wbj, Ihey talked pit.
he
They told inn so." There
.kle In his eje too, and lie
tin. smite breath iiltnott to tell
fin, iiiuril on Fourth rngt.
Ernest Schiller, who single handed, seized the S. S. Matoppo
l.CURt
ticl.. .Mm h 31 - finest Schll-
Schiller .Limits he plotted a little war
on h!s account with Jut enough war
f.ne. to lift his exploit out of the cate
goiy of common crimes, hut with the
main purpose of holding gome rich pus-
,:n, ,, harvest or golil iiikI Jew
elr, but he got on board the wrong boat
and Instead of . J.ooij which he bad been
told w.i- in the otllce of the purser of Kl
Spitto hi found only 1o and fl-'iAmerl-can
lnoiie on the Matopiu.
Schllbi was su disguttiil with hit mis
take ami falluie and the trilling amount
of hit loot that he did not consider it
nthei worth while or necessary to cloak
.7""' ,h "r
beaching the lliitish ship.
Wonders tliuut III I'nlt.
He It uncertain now whether his ciew
double crossed' 111 ) n or thos. four lio-
boken husklet now an- on board Kl
rfi:irI attempting to carry out his plan
or have sun unit rest at common stow
awa .
"I wish them good luck and hojie they
had the nerve to go ahead with thu
plans without me," said Schiller.
Schiller frankly made his"1 confession
this morning when bo was addressed in
Hoi man and felt refieshed by a night's
.deep. Ills only hope now 1 that the
Fulled States authorities will tako him
In charge and not surrender him to the
Uritish.
Tills was the only condition tinder
which he agreed lo make a detailed con-
FIVE ZEPPELINS IN
RAID ON ENGLAND
SihIioii iM-ops Xfiii'ly Hun
ilrcil lloinli on (lie Kasl
pi'ii CoiinUns.
.eim ( n;e lifpntcli to Tur. Six.
l,o,sisi.v, Apt II 1 I Saturday . ;The
W.ir oillce iinuouuced to-night that Zep
pelins raided the eastern counties -last
evening. It Is believed that live dirigibles
took part In the raid Ninety 'bomba
wen- dropped.
At the sain.- tinio the' War nitlce an
iioiinced that It was reported that Her
man aircraft also vhlted the northeast
The stnleineiil Issued by the oflhlal
pi ess bureau follows;
The War I Hike, announces that thete
was an air raid last night over the
custom coiinlicK In whien live wppe
, Unu are believed In have taken, part.
All the Millers cixissed the coast at
illlTer.-tit places and timet and steeieil
.lilleient courses. Afro lit ninety bombs
an- tepoiled to have been dropped In
' localities In the eastern i-outitles The
re-ultH an- not known.
It I further iriMiited that hostile
aiicf.iri visited the northeast coast,
't was an Ideal night Tor Xeppelln.
Thn wind was light and Hie atmospheric
'pressure was In the raldera' favor.
1 Thousand of onlookers saw tljo raider,
u-aiight by the rays of a nearchllght.
I sweive and inano-uvre and Ibeli turn tab.
The other i-alder mostly dropped bomlm
, on open Kp.in-s of th" country.
i About IJ :i o'clock this illumine sec
. -r.il bonib-i wen- dropped near an im
Ipoitunt town. All exploded outside the
inliiililieil million.
A ii-slileiil of the town said
i "W- wcio ofllclally warned. t Hours
I passed, but thetii were no signs of the
ii.ters. Many persons went to bed. A
.eppi'llii was seen at II o'clock. Then
something iliopped like a streak of lliiuie.
A terrllle explosion followed, What was
once n i-harmliig villa now funned two
or tin re rows of blick,
"A rescue paily found a girl, !i
years old, asleep In her bed which had
fallen through the Moor. The adjoining
house, -waH not badly damaged, hut a-in an
and Ids wife and child were killed out
right, while ouUlde six peraona 'ww In
jured by Uylw 'debris." 1
r
fesfllon to Detective al O'Kan II if
New York niul Charles K. Relss. a I-'ul-
eral Immigration inspector fioni 1'lilla.
delphla. who examined him before Jus. J
tlce of the I'eace Napoleon Honaparle
Register after they had taken sworn
depositions from t'.tpt llergner and
other olllcerw of the -Matoppo.
"I have been in hard luck or I would ,
hae turned a better tilck than cen the
Moewe did when she captured the Ap-
pain." Schiller said la his confe-wlon.
If I hail not been terribly handicapped
by bum and ciookt on whom 1 de
pcmled 1 would not only have shown the
Hrltlnh something, but the Herman navy
too,
"I am a (ieiuian anil I am the only
Herman concerned in this matter I do
tint care to sn'a! about the nationality
of the other men. It dues no' matter,
My Herman nationality and my desire
to help the Herman cauxe made any
thing I did iicts of war. '
"If I killed anybody. It would not be
murder. If I took anybody's money, It
woiiW not be robherv nr theft: If I inado ,
mv wiv .islinr!. Ill safelv I w oiilit bale
committed no crime against the laws of wl'r,c assaults were made on the
this countty unle-s it might be construed position 'tecently regained by the I ren. h
as a violation of neuti alltv. but that north of Avocourt. and the other t . the
would Ik- a small mattei east of Hnudlmont In the Woevio. Three
"To begin with, i am m r.ailt a tev- separate asaultt were made In the latter
tile engineer M entne family W en-1 attempt. All these attacks were re
gaged 111 the textile business I worked PuNeil.
for some eats In R11.--I.1 for the Pioneer I Fr.neh anti-aircraft gun btought
textile tirin of Russia, which now em- down a Herman aeroplane to-day near
ploys mv btother I went from Russia Taliure. Another Herman machine wa
to Rngland and was piaccfully engage , brought down by French avia'ort al
at my profession wh.ii the warbrokeout. B'ol'i'e. in the legion of Rclfoit
"I was In Hull. Kngland I had com-! ,.,,., Tk,i, .,,,,
mil ted no offence. A friend of mine whs i I lhl Thr..uh Mul.l.
arrested on the charge of signalling with The Flench afternoon nmmtihlquf
calcium lights to the raiding Zeppelin follows
j nnd of directing their coi,rte The Rug-
llhmen shot him and then they arrested
me. I had lominl-.tcd no offence what
ever, but I was shut up In a dirty Jail.
I was subjected to the greatet luiiiillla-1
tton and Indignities, though they had no i
evidence whatever against me.
"I told my Riltlsh persecutor,, that j
some day they would pay for it all. 1 '
told the Hull policemen and Maglstiate
that If they persisted in persecuting uni
on account of my Herman nativity the-
would pay for It th-arlv, that I would
have my revenge some dav. I even told
them thet the Injustice I hud siilTcred
would drive me to r.Mremet and that If
I had a bomb then I would have felt
Justified In hurling It at them.
"All the time I was thirsting for re.
( 'out In ui if on ''mil 'un'
russians advance
on road to bagdad!
Defi'iit Turks in Ariuciiiii Nciir
Korlivss if Kuril
.Miiliiclikan.
i
i.Wf ltih-i mTunSiv l
I.ONU.IN, March 31. For the first tinte 1
the Russian War Ulllee. In leiKirtlng the
progress of the Russians sweeping I
southward Hi pursuit of the Turks
across the Armenian Txiiru, mentioned
Kagdad, In.llcutlug that the Mesopota.
ml. in capital It the objective of the
C.rillld Duke Nicholas.
The Turk were defeated, iiccoidlng
to to-night's Pelrograil statement, at
the forlrijss.'.ir Kara Malachkan, be.
tween the cities of Muli umi Mosul,
The Russian War Oillce statement
follow-i .
In the Caucasus, In the direction of
HaKdail, In the legion of the fortress
Kara Mabichkau, we defeated the
enemy, who, losing heavllv, lied south,
wind, .
FIVE DIED JN RAID ON VERONA.
' V ,
I
Ho l. ie Ml) -! A imlrliui cropliiiifn
'look Purl.
Romi:. .March 31 The War I illlce
announced to-day that twenly-nliie Aus
trian aeroplane pat ll.-lpaled In the
recent raid on Vei (it; i and other clllcs
uf mo thrill Ital).
Five persons were killed In Verona,,
whet n ilghteeu bombs wi.-e iliopped,
Fifty bombs weie ilroppeilin Poidenone, '
In the province of Venice. The raiders!
attempted to blow up a bridge over the.
Tagllaiiiento.
One vquadiou of aircraft dropped
bo.libs over bildges In the Meslro Valley.
Of the twenty-nine In Ihe raid, four
aeroplanes weie brought down and the
occupants raptured,
II I n me Ilclulu iib for Starvation.
, t-ptrint 'utile lletpalih M Till; ?i'
1iNPoN, March 31. The Ihillii MoII'k
RntlHrilaiti coriespondent telegraplis that
the Hermans are circulating reports that
the Helglans In Ohent are starving as a
result of riotous ileiiinnstration.t against
the headquarter of the American Relief
Comrr!.tee. '
Attacks at Dead Man
Hill, but Fail.
TWO ABKOPLAXKS
ARE BKOFGHT DOWN
Slitcint Cabtt Pttratch io Tiig Si v
f-osuo.v. March 31. The village, of
Malancourt, on the western bank of the
Mouse, pounded to pieces by continued
Herman nrtllleiy tire and attacked by
tin1 Germans on thite side, was evac
uated th.s mortrng after nn all night
battle.
The Herman rloubled the inlcnlty of
the nrtlllery the dlreelel npalnst the
village esterday and bin night began s
series of massed Infantry nttarks, push-.
In forward s!inult.ineouly from three
sides of tho village.
A French battalion held the salient of
the vlllnge all nlsbt In thn face of flirt-
ou.t attacks . Tho French commanders J
oeciueo mm morning tll.ll tne position v,.i ,() ,)( ,..,. are of
wa, untenable and the battalion was ,, thc lindll chief Is not
withdrawn t Hie outskHts of the village. ,, ,,,,, , , r(,,chltig tho city of
whero new positions h.id been rstal.-! .ntliu.iliu.i .ih lie 1 to set Ititi. tlie fertile
llshed The tlernM-n made no etfoit to Concho Valley, wheie he may lay In sup
extend their advaiKe at till, point t. ' plies of lo ul and I'ot.ige to maintalti lilin-
i I cell "lltlV llj lllh ' ' n
some of the chieftains of the southern
, portion of the republic upon whom he
tlmd. In I urer, ,.aniil for support
Aiuiher altuli .:. -.tor.-' r.r, wui It ioa be. tisi. that he w.ll pursue
... b.. ,vrii.n,s ., ,.vi n,i II"' tactics pursued bj Salaz.tr
,n"' the (.erinan- ai odoo. this , ,.,,,,, j,,, llft,.r ,,,klI1(. jUa,ez at
eieulng on the French iisltlon north-1 outbreak of the n volut.on in 11' 12
ens- of Hill !n t'e legion of l.eland starttng south halted at Sattr. ami
Mori Homme. Tae attack was pre. I , niauded that the then lioxeruur of the
ceiled by the lima! violent nrtlllery irep- State of Chihuahua, l'asiiiial Oroico,
aration. As the iiitn:i;iy left their !
tienrhes the Ceniun guns covered their!
advance
with ,i swecpn g tire and i
launched sluIN cuilttitig gav.-.t lrrlt.it-1
lug to the eves. At several points the i Vil1'1 " wheieabonts to camp also said
tietiuaii waves swept Into the French Anieilcaii loives n the tb-ld were
llrst line trene'ic-, but wete unable to J" ll""' l'rsiilt the bandit and in
letalu the ndvantage in the face of a his opinion ,i would be a matter of but
Ftencl, counter attack and rebted from U w '"' u i !"U' x. ,' ?f
the nosllions ciine.l ' they would come up Ith him. Ibis too
vindn TJ;;TL ,i,e ...tack Jr: vrr M a,,,,y omcl ou,J
,?rPvf!f,Ul M.?PL.?'e,,T,!f ,l.hP 'I?'"'"," I Hell. iVrshiiii:, .on de, of ,lr
previously attacked, ri U t line tho at- ,. ,.x1,H,lllolll , a, . ;,.
tacking forcrs wete completely reputed. ' base, about miles southwest
Resides the sucecssfi, assault on Mahin- ,f , nu ,,..,...,..
rml" In Germans anempieu two otner
t'lll IWlHlhl. "I" lll-l"-Ar'WIe.
.,,..,.. ,,u.t
two attack with baud grenade .It-
lecte.l against our positions lo the
north of Avocourt.
West of the Men.- tlie bombard
meiit of Mabeiicoutl ha gone on wltu
rwloubled violeiiie. Last night the
neiinar. ifellvered a n-rl of attacks
111 masseel formation, The- advauied
from three sides nt a time upon the
village, which formed the advanced
salient of our tine and sli. Itercd one
of our battalion.. After lurious tlvtht
lug all night long, which eni illed con
slderable sacrifice-. on the pan of the
enemy, our ttoops evacuated tho
mined village, but we Mill hold Its
outskirts
Raid of the M.-usc the night passed
quietly.
Ill the Woevie the Hei mailt en.
b-avored on (hive separate occasion
to capture from tif the work lo the
east of Haudloinont, hut all their' ad
vatires were repulsed.
Theie hat been no ck-cui i ence of
Importance on the remainder of tho
front
Hull ill tliilniieoiirl.
I'he olllcial e-onimuiilqlie Issucil by tlnvlof .Mexico with lulelit to kill, maim mid
Flench War
Otllce to-night follow;
South of the Soiinne the enemy at
tempted after artillery prepai.ttlim
a serle of surprise attacks on our
Advanced posts In the region of Iioni
nlerre All the attempts failed.
In Champagne our destructive flic,
destroved Herman tienche.t lo the
MMlt, f S.K., Muiie-a-Py A Herman
aeroplane was (nought down b our
spwial gun. toe machine ten In
Haines within the enemjV lines north
if Tahure.
In the Argonnn our artillery bom
hauled troops on the march In ihe
dliet-tlon of Wirelines.
West of the Meuse artillery ac
tivity b decii-aslng, In the legion
of Malancourt Ihe enemy made no
attempt to ileboitiii trom the village
in tha coutse of the tin).
mil her Herman AllncL.
Ill the region of l.e .Mint lloiume,
after a violent lioinbarilmi nt, the
enemy launched about li o'clock on
our position to the northeast of IIIH
SH.'i a stinng attack accompanied by
a sweeping tire of shells emitting
gases Irritating lo the ees. The Her
man, who bid been able to gain a
momentary foothold hi some elements
of our llrst Hue, were driven from
these elements b a llvel counter ut.
tack by our troops, Another attack
dliccled -i little later lo the we. t of
the same position was coinpetej re
pulsed. Fast of the Meuse ami In the
V.'ncvrC there wa modernm ailllleiy
activity.
In the Apieniont forest we bom.
bardi-il enemy cantonments ut Var.
vltiay. our lire on a Herman luit.-ry
In uctlon caused an explosion among
several e-aissons,
Aviation; Our pilots In ought down
an Avlatlk, which fell within our
lines lit Soppe, In Die legion of Rc.
fort,
The ollldal statement issued In lleiiln
Unlay says Hint Flench defensive es.
tabllshments on both sides of Malan
.oiirt were taken with the Milage. The
number of prisoners laken Is given as
six olllcer. nnd 32 men,
The fieruiaii stattmeut auiiouncis thu
bringing down of three llntlsh aero,
planes In an aerlul tight In thn Arras.
Hiipuuino reflon. J.leut, Itnmelmaitn
CottKnurd on "Mrif Page,'
i
City. Is Keporf 1o
IVrshiiifi1.
SPECULATION" AT
FKOXTDX OUTCOME
m (.r.oiu.r. it. ri.KnBXTi.
Sprrlnl Cnrrrtpovilnit of Tn Sc
llRAtiql'AHTKRH I'I'NITIvn KxI'F.IIITION
Unitmi Stats Af.MT Nkaii Tahas
(Iiiandrs, Mexico. .M .truh "0, by aeropl.ine
to ColiimbiiH, N. M March 31. A scout
returnlDK to biMilipmilers last night
from soiop point southeast of tlilt place
repotted that Villa wns r.ipidly reUeat
ln eastward toward the city of Chi
hu.ihu.i. American army olllceis li, close touch
with the situation tefused to dlu-uss Uia
scout's story, which has had tha effect to
urouso much speculation as to the proba
ble objeitlve of tho llcelng bandit Mid
his me.iuro forces. Thoso most familiar
with th geography of tlm locality In
come to that imint and outline to them
In plan for turning the capital or t lie
State over to them.
The " "' who brought the stor of
, ,. , ,, ,. ., r,,lr ,,, i......!.,,,,,-.
" . .
mi
ters, or whellier nr no
V?. VV:
will be moved forward to what Is now
teftrieil to in ibe dcspati he as the
"advuiii.ii bae
News was re- eived here to-ilay by
wireless to the cITci t that pet mission
has been gi anted to the t'nlted Slates
lo use the i.illw.iy I umi Juarii to i'.on
Hrandes for commcriial pin poses, which
Is interpreted to mean that the toad
mav be used for the ttnn.porlatioii of
supplies At ii-ii.. 1, olficers at army
headquarter lefuso'tn discus the des
patllles oi their purpose
MK.XICO SOT "WAST IC"
I'linncr Near .iimlqiiliii Priitper '
inik 'I'lirii In titirrlonni.
II. . 1 : 0 1 1 1 . 1 . II. t l.i: VtCN I . .
Aiha.N'-i: of Pi-mtuk Rxt-i.niTiyN
I mtbi Stvti.s ii.mv, Near Naiulqupa, I
I'liihuahu.i, Mexico, Mat h '.".', via Aero. I
plane to Columbus'. N. M. .MaMi 31 -
Clos,. tlrst hand ohicivntinn . "'Is n-i-'
jtioi, of the State of Chihuahua bad a
I'lM'-iii) '.i-l" i .ne- i"i".iin .'"-..
I I .i,n Ii. .1 1 1 II,., I'nli.wl -......
States
that all nf Mexico has been laid waste According to Persuing t.pon lae
dining the past live ear f tcvolution i oattle took plac. after a spectacular
and strife. I ilah bv Col liodd's commaiid, 111 which
It I true that wii.-n Hie .vnerlean I tlfty-Hn- miles were covered m seventeen
tlrst appealed in thi Milnilv th" people I hout . Army ofllcers here liissinne that
or tins v.-i-y l.-itlle valh y of the S'ltita I Col, Podd came upon the bandits early
Maria were dejected looking and w.-re.in the morning, although tl ftleml re-
I in, lined to b ilk upon the olllcers and j port does pot show thi. Tlie bandits
j men of the i--dition a possible en-! wete taken completely by surprise and
jetnies. That thev assumed an attitude , Judging from the number of horse ami
If not hostilii.v. then of supreme ituliffer-1 saddles captured, many of them did not
I ence. was pioliil'ly due lo the Impr.ssion even have time to mount. "
I sought to be iteated b Villa a he Official of the 1 lepartm-nt believe
, pa'soil
tin way Unit the Amerl.-aiis.iiiai tlie it-f. reti.e to laip.v.'ns wouniieci
' wii.-n thev - tune would come as eii.-uu.-s
minder Contact with the Amen ans
ha proved Villa a a prevaricator iinilim th" tight at Columous. lie com-
!the people weie quhk to rc.t!l7.o tliat
i fail
To I'.'Ili the mallei along the Amen-'
cans began i,i spend good innu. v lor
'tin- coin, hay and beans, which tin-
'faimeis of the district ns-mnl to have
in abiinilauie. and till hail tin- HTect
lo cause Ihe ntosl s.epthal amoiig the liiniself will be taken shortly A copy i
inhabltauls to modify tlieii opinions, till; of the u-pott trom Hen Pershing was,
now the mot friendly i-latlon seem Kent to the White Hmse ImmedlatcH i
lo exist betw.en Hie Inliabitanis of this ' ;,ft,.,. us arrival, but the Piesideui, vv'i.i;
garib-n npot of the Stale of I'hihuahua , as aiitomoblllug with Mrs. Wilson at
nnd ihe men who ale s.vklng to punish i n,e time, did not see It until hi u-turi. -
Villa for his murder ami night .mail.
on iho clHA-ii of Coliimbiis.
The let in "gmden spot'' when applied
! i., this all- I not an exaggciattoii
The valb.v ot li. Santa .Mai i.t Is ope of
, I most feitile and best watered In the
- Stale of Chihuahua and ouu of 111.- most
, di'lisel populated
' s said al IM' ouisei en mis .n-spaicii
theie I little evhb nee here of the strife
i
I.. ..,.1... VI... I.... ll.lU I....I, ..IM-U...I Ull...
', the bile I''. Ise- I. Madeto lalse.i thel "..,' HrlnK C..rr...w I...
i Hag of icvoll 111 Noieinber. P.IM. Th. ' ,t the State and War Hep.u tinents
valb ha i onlilbuled lt full quota of it ' ,H bellevi-il that the signal blow
men lo Ihe various i evolutionary atmle ptnh'k at the bandits b Hod. I will have
, whli h have been raised fiom linio to a uiaiked effeet not onl among Villa
tune sin -, but this docs not si cm to have followrts but will sene In c'.i.-k anv
hoi lb- i ffect of putting -i slop to anv hostile outbreaks among Ihe Ca'-
' degree to Ihe tilling of the soli, the liar-, rau.lstas It is now b.lleved thai Car.
vetting of cuips or the herding of he lana. will hasten to entir into the pi.
gl.al dlov.s of cattle which live on the ! poed protocol between the two Ho'.
,.i.. iiiiieii ,-,,v,', ii, ,, . I .,.,,,o, nis mid thai he will not longer
, aieas not glvin mer m agrlcillluie.
ri,..,,. aie wlilo.es and ornh.ins n. .1,..
i lean, i, Hail RucliO Ventura, Kl Valle. l.ar.
Cilices, Niimlqulp.i, Santa Ana
and all
..... ii.. I.. ,.. 1,1. u ..I. I.. I. .....
th,, valley fiom end lo end. and there
n rc many
rathe' and motliei who
niouiii for those who have fallen in bat.
tie whli" lighting to fill liter tin Inteiest
of Mm Icm. Orozco, Villa and othii ii-vo.
ltltlttti.lt leadeis.
These ate Hied of war and give eveiy i
evldelii'c of Joy In the thoilghl thai in the !
presence of tin- American: they sue dcllv-
....'....noolie to iii-nlii i.-lioi, I,, tti.'.ir
troiu iiiriner iiiitMisneii
fields ami ranches without fear that they
may be railed upon in innliihiile a
further meed nf either blood or treasure
ATler reading of the devastation of
this portion of Mexico one Is surprised
to see the great stores of corn, hennt
Cnnfliitirif on ffrrowf rngt.
GEN. PERSHING SENDS THE GLAD
NEWS OF VICTORY' TO PUNSTON
gAN ANTONIO, Tex., March 31. Gen. Pershing's megsago to (Jen.
Funston follows In nnrt:
"SAN GERONIMO RANCH, Mexico, March 30, 1916, by wireless
to Columbus, N. M.
"Dodrl struck Villn's command, consisting .100, fi o'clock March 'JO
at Guerrero.
"Villa, who was suflfeiinp; from a broken Icj; ami lamu hip, was
not present.
, "Number Villa dead known to be thirty; probably others carried
nway dead.
"Dodd captured two machine Runs, litrjre number horses, saddles
and arms. Our casualties four enlisted men wounded; none seriously.
Attack was surprise, the Villa troops beinp driven in a ten mile rnnninj?
fijfht and retreated to mountains northwest of railroad, where they
separated into small bands (deleted by censor).
"I.ui'KC number of Carranzlsta prisoners who were being held for
execution were liberated during the fight. In order to reach Guerrero
Dodd marched fifty-live miles in seventeen hours and carried on light
for live hours (deletion).
"Kliseo Hernandez, who commanded Villa's troops, was killed in
fight. With Villa permanently disabled, Lope, wounded and Hernan
dez dead tho blow administered is a serious one to Villa's bund."
WILSON DELIGHTED, SAYS
VILLA WILL BE TAKEN SOON
Gen. Funston Sends Pershing's Report to War Depart
ment House Gets News With Rejoicing;
Senate Hears It in Silence.
U iiiM.rnv. Mar ii.ll -Outnumbered
almost two to "one, a detachment of
picked cavalrymen from the Seventh,
Tenth and Thlt tenth regiment, com
manded by Col. Heorce A. Iwdd, ad-
ministered a crushing defeat to Joo Villa 1
bandit near Hnerrero, Mexico, accord
ing to no olllcial report tecolved at the
War Depaitinetit this afternoon from
Hen. I'ershlng.
Tl k-.t. . , , .
The bnftl was ,he flr.-t that has taken
place since tho Amctican forces cros-ed
Into Mexko to catiturc Villa and ivK'iifo
the attack on Columbu. N. M.. on March '
J'.'. Although It took lilacs nresumahlv
at I o'clock on the morning of March 29,
not a hint of the right reached the De
partment until t III- afternoon,
The lepott from rershlng hid been
sent to Mnjor-Uen. Funston and for
Oeiu J'ershlng stated that at least thirty
Vllllnas. includln; their commander.
Hen. Rlico Hernandez, are known to
hae been killed. Tho Amelican casu il
tle number four enlisted men slightly
wounded.
Two machine guns and large quanti
ties of ammunition, iors and saddle
were i.ilitured from the 1 twills, who In
running tight of ten miles lasting live
ted .mnug the tmi.t
Ilia No! Preseiil.
Villi nims.-lf was not pti.-ui, iiih re
port states. Suiferlng from a broken leg
and a lame hip, which he receive,! In
his i cent brush with Hie Carran.lsta,
he I believed to be 111 hiding ill the
mountains'.
In a statemeni issued to-night Secte.
t.uy Raker made it plain that the Ui.
i persal of the bandits will inn irl
the campaign and Indicated inai tne m-
I ...I
partmei.t wat hopeful thn tho Pan. II
, .... -
i.,k..o v. Itlnn :. feev .lav s.
taken w Ithin i
i an et i or due lo transmission, inasmuch
a lII"'Z wa reported lo have been
hulled and his body exhibited and iiuin.-d
i niatnled tin- Villa liill'l wiii.il on aau-
' li.ii. v PI tnass.icied the eight, en Aineii-
...m mine opeiatois and eini!oee at
j Santa Vsali
Piesiilent Wil-nn wat dellghled at
Hie news of Pie light and I. undereloo.l
' , i,Ve cMiressed contlili-lue thai v ilia
1 ui o'chs-k.
, ietnoniti-.itin
i,, nk place in the
House iihainbci- when Republican Floor
Leader Mann mieriupiru no- piocr.-,,.
lugs long enough to
read the i.-e.it.
Member applauded and ciieen-u vigor,
'.....i. ,,n,l the galleries wete swept bv
applause
In the S'liate, hiiwevcl. when
Sinator Ponierene of Onlo read the ie-
j Kt theie was not even a hand lip.
Intel pose i.bslucles In the wa, of the
, use of the .Mexican Northwestern Rail,
wic . I 1 lie. 1 1 il nspoi la lion .'i i-ni'i'i"-.
to Persuing.
Illl III! to IIS llljlllies 11 IS IH'll.'V l"l
i that Villa cannot be moved qui. lily ami
tin" " '" " ,
liilelieio ins .-ape o.- .s .. . .,. ,. . ,.
d.is. It is thoilghl probable lli.it ii
view of tile severe il.-reai iiiiuptiisieii-a I
lo bin band theie will be deserter aino-ig
his followers WHO will not hesitate lei
betiay his exact w bet cnbouts
'-,on. the c-ltalnty will whic Ho, ,1 ,
iiioviu -ii is umi ui .o...
I has tllieady established soul.
of in-
' foimallon which will enabie him to k...
In cIom' loinii with tin- nauuus rrom
now on.
Hen Scott sent tain telegrani Jif con
glutination to Hen. Funston to-night:
Cmntiuiiidltig Southern Hopattinc-nt,
Fort Ham Houston. Secretnry of War
rteslrrs you to convey lo Hen. rershlng.
hours' :;e"d;;vn ,z,:k'"' -r7,''v,:,wK,M;im',pa:kcd
;;;;!,,:;;,!!gx',,;;ween,i,"ao,kann
Col Hoild and coniin u.d it, ueaity
commemlaiioii of tin exploit tnm
tioued In your KI'l. Scorr, Chief of
Starf
Subsequently Soon tary Raker Is
sued the following statement .
"The success of Col. Iiodd In catching
up with the retreating bandits and dl.t
ivrslng them shows the value and ef
fectiveness of the careful preparations
made by fieii. Funston, as well as the
dash nnd vigor with which Col, Podd
nil -eu ill II I leiilie-rs III inn wiiuii.io
lin,1(.r,;tKrll t,,.r t;lsk.
"It Is a matter of great gratification
to us nil th.it thn tlrt encounter vtm
lt.? ",,r. nVJ'Z'
Sides of the border will utldoubtMiy tie
good. It will allay apprehension on
the Ameilcan side by showing tho rapid
ity and effectiveness with which our
arinv acts and among the Mexican peo
ple It will show the singleness of our
purpose and discourage, otner uanuiis
from sympathetic demoimtratlont.
itnlcK line? to Hunt Seen.
'Tli.c come a. a xerv adequate
aiikwer to lb ise vvbi fe.iied th it It
would be a long and piiuful pursuit
betore we overtook those marauders.
and givis siiong ground to hope, that
the ertlre object of the expedition van
be speed, I- ,in otnpllshed.''
Although It not known definitely
" 1 '
War Peiiartnii nt Just wnal
ta. hme-nt had b.eli operating as the ad
vance guard of the expedition and from
the rapldiiv of it movements has com
to b- known a "Iiodd'H Hying squad
ron." Its men wire selected principally
for the.i- -ndiir.il and marksmanship.
The Seventh Rcgim-nt. which is part
if luidd s brigade, Is the same that was
eomuiaialed bv Custer at the time of the
Custer mass i. te, The brigade Itself was
formerly coiiiniainlcl bv Ma Jor-Hcn.
S. ott, Chief of StalT of tile Army Col.
1'IMHI JIM IIMT I (lltilli'l ' I"" mii.ii.M
a-s..uie,i conniiatid or is on.c i Via
. ...
Itep.irl
'l-.illl llol'iler.
Tne Stale I i--p.ll tment issued the f.d-I
lowing summary of report fiom lhl
.Mexican bolder
"Tin- liep.iituient It ,u re. eipt of ad-1
Meet dated .Match :io frori 111 Paso
stating that freight has Just been re
ceiled nt .luairx from Torreon, which1
iiiillcat. s thai the railroad Is again eipeu
""in ioir to .luaren. i He advices
slate, hnw.v.v. that Height shipments
have I n vi ly mil. Ii diiavcd
A further despatch dated I'.l P.io
laie- to it oii.lltioiis there remain un
changed and that quiet pit-valts In the
Juare. cllstti.t. There appears to In. no
I reselitipe nt on the put of the popilla
j Hon on account of the pi.-M-ii.e of the
i American troop I , Mexico.
"Railwav trnllc . moie regular and
is said 1. 1 P. .air.ed on wllh more safety.
Thi re is no ,o t city m mtiitiirv alfairs iti
.III ilex oi be M. xi. an lor.es at oil er
plai e "ii the l oi il. r "
PROF. LAVELL FOUND.
nrniei- I .ilimililn loslroclor I
Ilm of Minor plinsln ;-. Veins,
Miss-.n
Kline Vovember I I'll".
..ue 1 forn:.: iriso of
in Cluinlea l't.,ve,s,t. a
I '
I I-.
, hito
t I . o I up al Cdointln Soring
! t.-r.i.i. .ic-i-..i-.lin
,t
111
lespat.-bes rceivrd
fiom t li.it . lt last uKht
Pi of
.lillllilt.il hi hb-iitlle.
Hilling hi connect. on with I'olimibi i,
P...r i.v..ii ,.. , . r ..I- .1,..
11 1 III I IP H'iP til I" nilfki' lir rill'
fiTed fmm uhlit'ini.i. rtnnvMi .1mj
motor .t plMt-t.i Tin K.M smmi nf li.in
Id
fell dlzM and h.'lleeed a row in a boat
on lliiillugt'iii II.in -i' Hamilton, Out ,
would be li.'iic u.ial The boat wa
found, but all tr.o e of the piotcssor was
lo-a fler the hav had been dragged
foi si'ieial il.i. - den. unite was u-i.l, hill
x It limit avail
Vuttm of inoioi aph.-i.--i i oniuiiiiilv
have an Inordinate .iiipuIm- t travel, and
on.c ihe .each the pla
haw- stalled thev seel
for w hli h tin j
new dcstiiia
"" - ,.'--. ....... -
pe,ll',lll.-c .ill' l.avell oll.-l.-.l ai.-o.ti.l
, oi un no- ... -n in., .o.i'i
, .n ahw
lie IS lotl I.I
, HfcKU nl i,AUiJ,U niS UW 3U.
Mr, Teiiiiiinl's tlriiiiin, I iinilioc.l In
I oinliion .peeeli, Nov. Reteiileil,
u
,,-,, ,-,,,. ,,,.,.,., , . w,
."Miill.e. Hi. died tlie Hon f I
ollllllllll!
last
i'ilesda wan tin iles.
Ill Kill ot ,
ilai ing feat b a llntish av.iiioi'. he din
not give the Joins name, Ins story being
based upon inr-liniiii.il ilespati In,
'J'o-ihiy It ilevob-pd tltiii the nu. .toi .,,
question was his own son, lilghl l.ieu
tenant Tennaut, who was gara tted to-day
for the Distinguished Suivlct Ordr, for
bravery.
Col. Dodd's Squadron At
tacks 500 .Marauders
at, Guerrero.
CHIEF. WOUXDKD, (iKTS
AWAY IX CAIM.TAGE
Americans Chase Itaiidits
for Miles Until They
(Jet Tnto Hills. ,
GKX. IIKIiXANDEZ IS
A3I0X( THE KILLED
U. S. Cavalry by Lone: Night!
Ride Catch the Haid
ers Asleep.
.Kl 1'vso, Tex., Marclt 31.---IMnrho
Villa, jvouiided in thn Wp. escaped
from the t'nlted Htatc-.i troops In lilt)
llrst clash with them on Wednesday,
March 29. Villa lost thirty men Hilled,
two machine guns and a. number ot
saddles, rifles and horses. Tho Amer
icans had four men wounded.
The, Americans vvcro commanded by
Col. O. A. Dodd, temporary commander
of tho Second Cavalry Ilrlgailo of the?
United Htates Army,
The; battle took place In tho cdKo of
the. town uf Guerrero, capital ot thn
district dominated by Villa In tho days
when as u bandit he defied for -years
tho foreies ot I'ortlrlo Diaz. Villa wn
taken trom thn Held In a carriage, ac
cording; to reports of tho United States
olficers with Col. Ooibl nnd vntlrm.vf
by Mexicans mado prioncrs by tha
Americans.
These Mexicans claimed to bo Car
ranzlsta.t whom Villa was. holding as
prisoners for execution. They are Is?,
ing held for investigation, ns tho Amer
ican otliccr.t liellevn that some, of them
belong to the bandit lincl. All tho
prisoners! nro to l turned over to tlm
ti.-a res i Cnrranza commander, who will
Identify nnd disposes of them.
Villa was surprised nt daybreak by
the Americans. II.- had Just captured
the- town front tho Carranzlatad tho
night betur.. ami was resting when the)
American forces, eomioaed of tho
Seventh Cavalry, tho famous Ouster
regiment, swooped down upon lilt band
and Is-gnii to pour a rain of le.nl into
their ranks.
I. oil Horses llelilod,
The Aiiu-i jean cavalry dsino-.tnteit
as it il.ishi-el UP within lltiiiL.- illstun. ,.
of the camp of the band and. leaving
xwr hot sc. In cii at go of detail ircpl
; ., , Vlllist.ls flolll i.rnii.w i.ml
i otin-r lu'ittT. ThN
t-'l.t'l "III II"' , 1 I I I it I I I I II I s I III I f t
! -'CUtlon atnotlg tho Vllhstat and tho
' stll.lP millit er nf Vinerli-in ,,,, l,i
, . lii.il, ll'llllia l o .vinencail VMllllldcd.
At .the tllistas awoke from tii.lr
diunkeii slumbers tiny wen- shot down
by the American. . Hi,. .Mexicans lied
the Auier c.iiis' hnres vvi.- brought up
and pnisitit vvas given, tho Aiueiiciin
i.ivalrxnien ch.uging on th,. h.,ls of th-
retientliig bandits us lot g as they Kept
III the op. n loiuitry, but gi pig in, t
eh in- when thu Mexicans tool, lo in..
i nmuntain.
TN ls ,, ,, MS,,m Vila u-.d in Ids
, lighting, ar. online n. ih.. v,. ,i-.
s.ouls' repoits several d.i- ago. In Hi,.
ev.-nt o .i bank his men an- instructed
to scatt.r, to u t again at soiin- pte vi-
ousl.v aipo.id.--l place, iiuen.ro bad
.be. n ih.. last rall.vitig place. Tho Anier-
leans nr.- attempting to oc-iio th,. n, t
, meeting place fiom Ho- in imhh i-s t...p.
tureil in oiibr lli.it lory m.iv sin iiuiinl
tlie place
I Villa's r. Ileal was tow.ud Chihuahua
. It v. according to the i- pint . Hi, hand
j scattered and i.,, t,( th hi,-, iiulilng
' purlllt ten. pol. inly im .. , t i.
I. ope Mile, tunlii.
An olllcer named I .op, ,, among
the V.lla wouiiile,!, accoiiling lo th,. ie,.
I poll sent Hen. Pershing hv'(S.. )o,ld.
I Hen. P.- shlng thouglit this inlghl hav..
I'.ioio l,ope, ivro colllluaiided l,
'!' "' AllleT....... at
' ' V1'.'' V' ' ' l','M .'.V,
mm pi ru iwmu ur v tJlllliM'-l.
"."'V,,,' V ",
I ..pM' ,l",Hi UlOligllC
,out. Cariatizist.ii g.ne out the rcpoil
some tune ago that Villa tint abandoned
, ...... ui.- mi in.- -ircai
south, but Amen, -.ill loues did not llnd
linn on all.val tin ie.
1IltllPii,i .h( ', ..fl.. ,., t ,
I A III. Ill MipposO. I to he If
,"'.' - - - .,' I ., I If lllilB
b'.s bin', being placed on evolution iii
'luare., but Ameilcan n-vei believed
II wa the oi pa PI i l,0"V.. I'nil'ilty.i
iirtvice lii-dav slat" He- C.irraujta i-on,-niatuter
in .luarc. t.-.-c v.-d the follow lug;
bulletin
' Chi. I of Stafl of Aim t in i vneddion
al Ties Hannv. cainp. in-liih teil by
(4-n. I'l-i'.-hin, had inf.. i nn d Pie that to
Sevestli I'avaltv on Maicli :pl pt San
Heriiniino fiiilglll a Villist.i .- Ilium cotti.
I pn. c I ..f r.in) iii'-n uii'l.r Rllsi o He .
nanib".
I " i 1 1 i m lost ll.i .ii,.4 mi Ibtrty
men Amen, an l i.-s un i several
wounded I'oiillrin.iiioo -i.eei-. tlmi
Villa wa.' wouinl.il nt I l tlulll with
I'oiistlt atlo. air Is anil ih Imi ng m re.g.
burlio" I .'. 1 lad r. I""
I, ii. r .i i.e.. inn l.i'.ov.i i i iiinnhus.
N ,l ihii -ie!eii I'lrei nis sent
Inioiili ipfnr iihi i I'j'l'.r g the tight
mil correspondents m .' pei'Mllli-d bv
in,, c.n- r t. le' I II ules.ag s lo
til, I p. pi I t'S I'-'II I'll ixl UI ... S,,
Anlo o a .1 RvJl .1 I'.l I'.ltn ' i il-sil
ivvo oil' i - W" s n ., ,,es , of
1 1 ' ' it " I in ill H . I ' 1. I
SI. il.-s 1 ' a aw..:' t i;
Frag n n "I i e in! .: 1 1 1 oi ... 'i i , , "iign
all alteriioon lo na oi Junr,; .n i
Columbus. A mo-sage,- niiid pi. .in- c
the latter plain lal - tills afl i -ion -nil
n
i
u
. fs.
