TH-E HERAID guaanees ful moey's wort to the
T purchasers of artiche advertised in the display
oms of "'. p3r b a"y Wa ngto mc\ Easter Shopping
'Circular Furihed Upon Requej). &IDUT5v1
N0. :1453. WEATHER FAR; U mU WAIL WASHINGTON. D. C.. SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 1916. ONE CENT.
GERMANS FORCE
FRENCH TO GIVE
UP MALANCOURT
Capture of Meuse Village
Follows Battle Lasting
All Night.
TOWN LEFT IN RUINS
Teutons Repulsed in Attempt
to Retake French Posi
tions in Avacourt.
SteIal Cable to The Wasliugon HI-.
London, March 31.-With another
lightning-like swing of his tremen
dous forces-this time from east to
the west of the Meue-the Crown
Prince has literally overwh elmed the
fortified village of Ialaneourt, about
ten miles northwest of Verdui.
The Gernian -captur, of Malaneurt
was the result of an all-mght battle.
The attack was made in tei evening
by three great masses of infantry
which swept up the nest, nloriti ail
east slopes of the hil on whici NIlan
court stands.
The assault was preevded biy the
usual bombardment Then !th Osei
man gunls were elevated to a range to
keep back the French reseives and
the Teuton infantry ro!sd m.
The French made a stubborn resit
a ce. but v.Ith Malancourt in ru i,
their reserves blocked by a barrag
Iire, and the i;erman anaul iontinu
ous. they nrally fe'l back ii he eary
rorning. Thay air, 'owev-:r. to still
hold tie "outskir-n ' of t!- .l
No tigues of losse are gien, but
onsid':ng tie desperate nature of
the fight:ng and tie nunir of nIen
engaged. they must have been f,:ghtful.
WIMile th- battle if 3Malar oirt was
'n progress, the iermans also tried
1 take by asault the position whh
tle French had taken in the Av-sourt
woods. about three rni to the soiutlh
west In tlis ther wie reIted
Tic: capture of 31alancurt is an im
portant fawtor in the crow n prunce's
Verdun campaign.
Through tius section is the shortest way
to t a-Vr~g .pihrwav, on whiub
the fotress depends in large part for
supplies. Moreover, the MT&ancouit
Bethincourt line, tht latter pt e being
three miles to the nest. r:.resent the
3pex rf a at rotw clh tle Ficeh hid
rn-aihtained for wee and wh~ch nas a
thorn In th il -f the ;ri:ain f lit.
Car Builders Plan
To Make Gasoline
Auto Manufacturers Organize
in Effort to Cheapen
Fuel Cost.
New York. Mtarh 3I -The formp
t"n of a giganti' ertorpr- to be
capitalized ultinately at fr .ii
001i to $1O.0A0.000. and to engage in
the manufa-iture of gasolinc and other
products of petroleum. wa announced
today by offiars of th National Aito
tnobile Chanb-i of ommer
Thldi step. it w, stated. iv tie
answer of the autoiiobilO mniiufa
turers of the country to the intere-st
which have forced te price of gaso
line and similar products to liuresi
which are declared to be almost pro
kibitive. W% ith a majority of the
)eding makers of ears interested the
move means virtually ti-at tie nianu
facturers purpose to proiuce their own
gasoline.
It was said that incorporation pa
pars would be filed in Albany today ot
tomorrow. Preliminary steps were
taken at a conference of automobile
manufacturers and men engageil in oil
production a few days age.
Chinese Troops Join Rebels
Shanghai, March --Chinese troops at
Ssatow and Chao-Chow-Fu. In Kwang
Tung province, have nutinied and joined
the revolutionista. Missionaries in the
routhern part of Fo-Kien province have
been notified to be ready to flee.
"The Corsican Sisters"
-is tomorrow's complete story 'in
the series-"The Social Pirates." This
intensely interesting series of fifteen
co-plet stories deals with the ven
geance which "the female of the ape
cies" wreaks upon the Male Wolves
it's as interesting as it sounds, too.
Four-color Maane S-crina of
The ONE Cent
SUNDAY lERALD TCNORROW
A Four-color Magazine Setin-,
Four-color Comic Section, Dramatic
Se-tion Society Section, Sportig Sec
tion, Fraternal News,-Army and NI,
News. Cl News, Bsy Scout and Gr
Scout Activities and all the News of
all the World-E f--dliered
to your door or at your news dealers.
csie e. ye~ a1~.
BULEM.
Specil table to 'The Wushingto stra4
London, March 31.-Zeppelins
dropped ninety bombs on the eastern
counties and northeastern coast
points tonight, according to an of
ficial statement issued by'the press
bureau.
The war office issued the following
statement:
"In an air raid tonight over
Eastern counties in which five ZI
pelins are believed to have partici
pated all the raiders crossed difficult
I places and steered difficult courses.
"About ninety bombs are reported
dropped in localities in the Eastern
counties. The results are not known.
"It is further reported that hostile
aircraft visited the northeast coast,
but no details iave been received."
SLEUTHS FIND
POISON BRIBE
$7,800, Paid by Waite to
Embalmer, Dug Up on
Beach.
POISONER INDICTED FOR
FIRST DEGREE MURDER
Detectives Discover in Dentist's Studio
Germs of Tetanus. Pneumonia, Chol
era, Typhus and Tuberculosis.
N-w York, MIarch A1 -The distri-t at
torn,-'5 .areh for buried treasure out
,t the f - end f Iosm Island today
t n-Id out 1r.ttv well-not as well as
"t b-n c\-oled from the stori-s told
b~ Art'r \\ a-r.n. ite poisoner, and by
E-riw (ir Nr.,. the mortiarian. but
D)etr i- J i:, infY. ofrl, al treau re
I-hrb for ti- d'tlict attorney's oftiee.
du;;r up fron tne beach at Fast Marion
t-ndr. ars-4 from Shelter Island. a
fp ' an co nta min 1g a small w ad of large
rr all or rmost of the money
t'at 'aite had ghen to Kane with the
'pV'tation tjat h' had succeeded in
ng le to fal-ify saIples of em
'lW;ng fluid, and so deceive the au
th ' iees as to the cauae of the death of
John E. Peck.
I $7.0 of Bribe Dg U.
There should have been VOM in a pet
f I 'iti,-t rnll. for that Is the surn
ch Wat, Ins:sts he gave to Kane,
a d w0, b Nano save l understood was
I t! ol e o Waite thrust it into
'ane 5.' bhnds. For the present.
Ta hiI no qther explanatIon for the
S $ .; !tan thIt he was too flus
terd t o -mt the mo'ney that Walte
I-~ . l c him
t \ it, ua 4in -d1 this afternoon
1" om !, 0rs! deren. The in
t"otnt I undI dni b the March
zrand v Iontaiins two ounts. Waite
fo rma a 'd of pre:meditatively
I 'rre:'Aa v.i!h ar -slic, and ''other poi
sns." J.i I> lek. his father-in-laiw.
n MLh 1:. !:l'; masii' is spcificaii
:fs tr , t 1: - nIl as other lioisons un
In-o n its the grani jri%. Write will b
nrrai-,gnd ''in Nlondy morning.
Fl'. y S'lhondler. had of the private de
tertive arev rtrinedl by the Peck fam
iW, mI u further serc of Dr. Waite's
ipartmnoit at 4.:.- Iliversidle rive this
afternoon, aidi i-prtd th it he fond
In a looked cio-et in Waits's study sev
e:al seal-d gla-s tubes containing dis
ei cultures. S-hindler said that among
teI' cult ures fiin were bacilit of tet
tnu, pniumoni, tuberculosis, typhus.
and A:inti, cholera.
Root and Colonel
Lunch Togetker
G. O. P. and Progressive
Leaders Meet for First
Time Since 1912.
61e ts Th 'aTshingttn Heral.L
New York. March 31.-These flve-Sena
ter Elihu Root. Senator Henry Cabot
Lodge. Robert Bacon. Mal. Gen. Leonard
Wood. and last, but by I- means least.
I Theodore Roosevelt-had luncheon to
gether at Mr. Bacon's home at 1 Park
avenue today.
Behind the mere record of the lunching
together of these men lurks a portentous
political signiticance-it .means the meet
ing of Root and Roosevelt for the first
time since .the Relyablicans and Progiwas
ives felt apart in 1912 and it strength~ena
the growing belief that the Republicans
as well as the Progresslves will nomi
nate Col. Roosevelt for President this
year.
What they ate at this luncheon is of no
importane, but what they talked -about
ts. and, so far as any of these present
would admIt, the talk wasn of prepared
neam. an inue that is bound to be thse
biggest of the coming camoaign.
Strike Spreads in Toledo.
.Toledo.. Ohio, March 3.--oledo wgs a
the grip of another stribe today. .1ol
lowing the Walk-out of the atreet esr
meu. the anployaa of the Toledo Ma3
ways and Light Cbmpany,. whieb inp
pile the city with power. -atruck lelay,.
caemane the tUs-up.
IritdhRae 200,484 i ae
London, March s.-StIah ea tis
in March were 1,107 ocge a
4--0
GERMANS SINK
HO8PITAL SHIP
Steamer Portugal Sent to
Bottom with Many
Wounded Aboard.
SHE CARRIED RED CROSS
EMBLEM PLAINLY VISIBLE
Paris Announces Vessel Loaned to
Russia Was Sunk by Skbmnarine
or Torpedo Boj#.
Spr.1 Cab:e t o he was-gton HraMd.
ParIs, Mlarch -,I.-The- lospital ship
Portugal, loaned,.by France'to the Rue
sian government;' has been Bunk by a
torpedo boat or submarine.
No details of the sinikits have been
made public, the bare annpuncement ot
thle ship's destruction and he additional
fact that a torpedo was re nisible being
all the Information given out.
The Portugal was a steam schoo'ner
with three masts and a egistered ton
nage of 5,3->. She was- wned by the,
Messageries Maritimes,. of, Frances, and
had ben taken into 011 government
service before being turned over to Rue-,
Big.
It 11 stated that ther were many
wounded soldiers aboard *hen the Por
tugal was torpedoed.
She had the Red Cross gnblem painted
Fahe, ar -e.,thrb r
Stamern. Prtgal aShent estog
Bottom o whirfthr anyrWh
Widondearc 2Abarad.hs l
Prs th Aue. Atse Loend o to
Rusi Waonts s un by hermaaia
Porgal., lone ~yFac o the s
-~
THE (/ 5
THOSE FELLOWS HAI
NET TIGHTENS
AROUND VILLA
Aviator Scout Declares Ban
dit Is Hemmed in
by Troops.
EVERY POSSIBLE ESCAPE
EXCEPT SOUTH dT OFF
American Soldiers Guard Passes While
Mountains Form Barrier Impass
able to Wounded Man.
T' Intanataal fAMs SnIce
Columbus, N. M., M*tch 1Ig.-How the
net is being drawn ispnot at least a
part of "Pancho" IJa'fra force. was
explained by Lieut. gar 8. Gorrell,
of the aviation corps, who arrived
here tonight with diaatches from the
font. He eaid:
'"North. northwest *hd northeast of
Guerrero are American' troops and im
paseble mountains. Madera, south
of t)e Continental vide., there are
SAm6rican troops. ut44Ward. along
the Mexican North irtern Railroad,
through Temosachic d Santa Tomas
there -are either A rican troops or
strong Carranza garr on.
"The Bachinaba pls, northeast or
Guerrero, offers a loothole, but Amer
jean troops are on' the northern end
of It. guarding the outiet into the
Chihuahua plains, through which
Villa might work 4orthward again
toalard the border.
'If Villa. howeve4 wounded and
disabled as he is b.e eed "to 'be. can
Work south. there'is good chance of
itla- swinging eastw d through the
Continental divide -ta Malipaso."
. British Seize ne ail
Berlin,, March 31.-4 dispatch from
Christianla states thiat- British warships
took ,the Scandinaving liner Heltgoland
into Kirkwalt and that bo gacks of mal
on board the yessel fete esised.
French in Aetion in East.
Mihe. March 31-Pghtin was_ in
geogess between, Fr~meb and German
dutpduts ail day Thureday north of da
e*tli. The Germans itled to -cross into
reece. but wege throu/ aigk.
Xbre Britisk Oa~bd & Color.
Loa i,-March 31.--Marries groups thIr
k~4.iasg eae ere-oday c glied
ta ta a.m== anama bam
/E STOLEN MY STUFF!
FUNSTON GRINS
A T GOOD NEWS
"Some Boys, These Soldiers!"
Is "Fighting Fred's"
Praise of Men.
GENERAL SEES IN BATTLE
HIS POL.ICY VINDICATED
'A Chilling Blow to Villistas," He
Thinks and Big Feuther in
I Dodd's Hat.
(83 Intrrnaucral News snc
San Antonio. Te. MarA .1-'The re
sult of their first b ruh with Ameriean
troops will chill the hearts pf the
Villistas." said Gaen. Funston today in
discussing the Raneblo Goenimo battle.
"They may) have suspected at Columbus
tat they, could not stand up in front
of American troops. Now they have
learned their lesson.
I"The dash from 'a r namiffquipa to the
miles and will rank wlih the greatest
cav alry dashes of history.
"Villa may not have partici ised in the
fighting himself,,but he uW4Kdy wa&
In the neighborhiyd of the -.6gessent.
The report -that fi" is !MI2ed speges
that he probably a. travdlingeon a litter.
We ought to geSm eyMortly.
"Tereut f th fgtfg sa oy
blw o h Vilggs.Itws'o
bigaffir an <h'klig a/otte
mendos, athouh, te pecetgwa
very satifactry. I'hity d ad illi
to fou woundd Ameicans 'sal igt
"Seme Boy, oeEitr
"Toe /lir'oso usaesm
bo/?
"f /riet~ o.Dd .ok wt
hi 4/pce focUFfyfiemlsi
seenee-ou . ---aaths
"Te hoe nedet etontrtS h
efnieny o th Anpicn slde d
faut frdonthrigh tA'g
ony hegoafer-i sprt uttegt
reome orveysng The roesut'sig
"Isn i gh ioldes" tnd
t P ra i4s of e. atin
"Tiks a nB eather in0. ataa.
tAD
4,
Dire Defeat of Vifla
Reported by Pershing
*i j Of lh
11 ruhig d fe at b ,na ister ed to \ h.
sa Ibmi ItsP in the,, follow ing LI5Ma:
INUIo to Gen;11nL n
''Sn G.-ronimio Rancht. March>
l'odd tue lin cI',ommand. Icon
xsisting of - G ok Marchj 29. mt
(;uerroro. \ ila. w ho is s-irrering from
a brokeni le,: aiil lamne hip. was not
present Nube Vila's dead 1,nioin
to- be 1i-1 robaby others carrie-d
Aaay d. ad l'odd c-apturi-d two ma
(hine gues. large number h-rse-. sad
dies and armsr. Our c-asualtics four
enilistedl mn wounded. ujone seri
Attack was urlinise. the Villa troops
beinig dtien m a ten-mile running
fight sod r etreated to mountain
northwest of railroad. where they
FeldaratWd into small bands. Large
number Carranzixta prisoners who
were being held for exection, %ere
liberated- during the flitht In order
to reach Guerrero. Dld marched
1fty-Ale miler in seventeeni hours.
and carried on fight for five hours.
Eliseo Hernandez. who commanded
Villa'st troops. was kill10d hat fight.
"With. Villa Dermanently disabled.
Lopes wounided-and Ilernandez dead,
the blow administcred is a serious one
to Villa's band.
(Signed i"PERSFHING."
Genesee Floods Rochester.
Rocheter N. T. arch 31 --With the
Geee 1ie. pt tehgetpiti
ha ahdi e'rwtrtdyi
Bowngint tre cisret.neo
whihGrve sret, n hehertofth
dontwnbsies sciieebe
rain -trrn aln-tI ntr egh
RoeWecme sqih
Roe Mac 1-Tepicpa tet
in thsiy 4eebilatydcrtd
thebDe ftearvlo rme
Duith. DfEngand. tillafeno. t
andon punaythed Biy Pesmng
l l'elforIth e ot tofsthK
Bridcgport, Conn. Macd ILTw aV
ators barroly in ne -c. rotl ing liere
today when r machie .was-e ked
searth ot of he e. hal, 2tp. the
eit(Nrown in theeo wateri'ce f re
cc ledoce by Cat. Joere lighthemes n
mawnam.ah wd od ha c- ainued Ito
DODD'S EN BEAT
VIL BANDITS IN
FI -HOUR FIGHT
500 Put to Flight and 30 Killed in
Surprise Attack, Outlaw Chieftain
Wounded, Flees to Mountains.
CAPTURE EXPECTED HOURLY
Capital Cheered by Funston's Report of
Crushing Blow to Columbus Raiders in
Which Only Casualties Were Four
Americans Wounded.
Secretary of War Sends Congratulations
To Pershing and Dodd m Learning of Victry
Secretary of War Baker immediately upon receipt of Gen. Fun
stons report of the battle directed that a telegram of congratulation
be sent to Gen. Pershing and Col. Dodd. This telegram, which was
sent to Gen. Functon by Maj. Gen. Hugh L. Scott. Chief of Staff of
the army, said:
"Secretary of War desires you to convey to Gen. Pershing, Col.
Dodd. and command his hearty commendation of exploit mentioned
in your ni6. This latter referred to the number of the Funston
message.
A crushing defeat of Villa's retreating h.a's by Cot George A. Dodd's
cavaky was reported to the War Department by Gen. Fneaste yesterday.
Thirty dead Vintas were left on the field. The American casm-- es were
four wounded. Five hundred Vstas were put to flight.
Villa was sot in the fight. Gen. Hernandes, commaadg the band's
forces, was killed. Vila, sufering from a broken leg and a lae hip, has
taken refage in the meuntains. His captare is expected heart. War Do
partment officials would met he surprised if Va already has been takee. The
fight occurred Wednesday moraing. Dogs gavhry g beleved 4esave gs
id-gt A'dfet of Ta's eo was the
dima Ja fifty-fire-milearch that ranks ameag the nod spodteler- foat
of the United States army.
TOOK VILUISTAS BY SURPRISE.
Led by Col. Dodd, the brigade commander, the America@ cavalry frces,
made up from the Seventh, Tenth and Th'rteenth regiments, rode seventsem
hewrs in a forced march. Surprising Vila's forces at 6 o'clock in the morIg,
Dodd's cavalry drove the fleeing bandits before them is a tea-mile running
fight, consuming five hours mere.
The Viflistas scattered into small bands and escaped.
Gen. Fuasten reported Dodd's victory to the War Department this after
men. Funston transmitted without commeat the telegram he received fum
Brig. Ge. Joh J. Pershing, commanding the expeditionary forces.
VILLISTA TERRORIST WOUNDED.
. mNu . NfMe,, March 31.--rablo Lecpr.. leader 1 :N, v1
list, w cs w ho blew up Cumbrc Tunnel, s e0 respons- lr ec the
maacT- tz Sama )'abel. and who v.as u: at C,.umbas, is
report-i wounded and the inference here is that Ie .- been captuied
Col. Dodd' casa!ry reccised word from o( - &'e scouts 1hat ,a
body of \ilhtac werc camped eighteen n1rule, *ch c: tc United States
ca airy outpcsts at Guerre!o.
Starting at , o'clock at ight, the roo-re r Tenth marched
fifty-fnic nc:e in fiteen iins, detoured to the n e upon the
\ 1lhsta< on all tiree sides.
It wa' a surprise attack. At thc first 1n1 'c -rraer fell and
a, lie attempted to rise lie was shot again.
ViLAA, WOUNDED, FLEES IN CARRIAGE.
\ ila, im a tent-on a knoll back of the cai p. . -hv his -neg
into a carriage and a wild ride started for the l - . wn
The handit-thief. according to dispatchti- ,. - u d ir the
actual fighting at Guerrero, but had a broken cg .- ir. hip from
a previous accident.
The remaining force of some too \ ilistas ion og
hours or more before the United States ir e i-V w it
pursuit. Thu fight extended ten miles.
When the field had been yleared, t.o
great number of horses and much equipment wa- - %ome
the American cavalrymen, while others, in spitc Arch ard
lack of sleep, took up the pursuit.
CARRANZSTA PFRONERS FREED.
The official announcement of the fght and -taColubu
from Col. D. R. . Cabell, chief of stag, with 'to Maj
W. R. Sample, commandant at the base here.
Here is the closing sentence of the dispatch:
"With Villa permanently disabled, with Loper A%., Hernand'
dead, tremendous blow~ has been struck at the pow<r
A large unber- of Carranza prisoners who had .wth\T!
columns for execution, were liberated during th< att * al 0 ~
wounded condition of Villa and Lopez are belie' aen.
told by hese Coranristas
WILONDEIGHUD T EWSOFVkTlR .:t Ma
PresdentWils wa delghte atthe e~ . - til s undthe
stood to have expressed con~dence that Viilla hi. " - uden shortly.
A copy of the report from Pershing was sent tc the \ b.: Hou se immedi
ately after its arrival, but the Presidengp who ti' a n-, lsrg with Mrs.
Wilson at the time, did not see it until his retui e k last eveniing.
A demonstration took place in this House ch.. ' hen Repubhcan
Floor Leader Mann interrupted the proceeding. long cn-s.h to read the
report. Members applauded and ceemd vizgorously aid ti. galleries wecre
swept by applause. Ini the Seuate, however, w hen ' .s i Peurent, of
Ohio, read the report, there was ae even a lanid clas
IMIEDESIVE.
Secretary of War - faa os repor1t ssuedth
following statemsedtt
"The success of Cae r~j' eng beaits
and dispersing them s e b neu
