VNOZIUV 4XIN30H4?
OS
tin
WEATHER
MARKETS
. NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
March 29,' 26.50.
Arizona Thursday
J f3'r
and colder.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
Vo
OL. 18, No. 264.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, APRIL 1, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
NY BE HAD
all
i
lEIUnUW EMCDUNTER ViLUSTAS; EflP OP II LEADER
i t i i
--V
1
t An
' A nu
1
s
7
f
V
HHIinim OFATH OR THE "risHilCTIVI! OF
I -M U aV la aW W W Bam I ..... I
UNDER COL.
lEXiGANS
Seventh and Tenth Cavalry
Ride Through Arroyos and Ravine, Coming Out On
Villa and His Band on the San Geronimo Ranch. Lat
ter Hits for the Hills, Being Carried Away by Friends.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
EL PASO. March 31. Four hundred American cavalrymen, under
ine command of Colonel Geo. A. Dodd. while riding down from the gran-
te slopes of the great continental
I n the main body of Panch Villa's bandits at the San Geronimo nation.
cattering them like chaff In the wind
d and crippled for life,' to seek a hiding place In the mountains over
"i'hich he has ruled, for so mary years.
: carriage.
i . ... ... i .
t The battle openea at six o ciock
S The bare facts of the brilliant exploit or the American troopers were
jhed over the Mexican wires into Juarez today and sent a thrill down
border. For seventeen hours the veteran. Colonel Dodd, - and his
fked riders of the Seventh Cavalry and Tenth Cavalry, drove down the
.lley of the Santa Maria river. At the end of a fifty mile ride they burst
Jtion the unsusDectins Villista camp
ihe massacre of 172 Carranzistas, a
.7 Vila, shot through tbe leg and with one hip hoplesly shattered, was
Jrried fronr the scene barely in time to escape the onslaught of the
fldiers of the north.
: , .' I The bandit made a brief but hopeless stand before the fierce charge
- ' 1 Col. Dodd and his troopers. Then they broke and fled leaving their
.' V .lad on the field, including their commander. General Eliseo Hernandez.
- j-y. 2,-0 machine guns, a number of harses, rifles, ammunition and equipment
.'l into the hands of the vic tors. Among the known wounded is Pablo
.- fpez. Villa's lieutenant in the' Columbus raid. The American losses v.ere
- ir privates wounded. V
- I But the American soldiers did not linger on the field ot victory. For
-V ; f. hours they drove the enemy before them into the wilderness of
: Huntain peaks, desert and canyon where roads or even trails are unknown
, 1 where a misstep means death to horse and rider. They halted only
. ler the chase had led them 10 miles from the battlefield and the fugi-sw-e
scattered far and wide in little bands of half a dozen men
'- f.
. V - 1 Villa's career has ended. His power has broken. Hi death or
, ".' ,pture is only a question of days, perhaps only hours, such is the
.' '' .Inevitable decision reached hire, as little oy little the details of Cot.
.odd's ride seep across the border. It seems impossible that the crip
ied, defeated bandit can long remain hidden even in the mountainous
- pastes in which he has sought a refuge.
.. ,'The last outrage placed to the ac
V count of Villa, and probably the final
.S' murderous exploit of which he will
ever ' boast, occurred at Minaca, a
- 1 town about 10 miles southeast of
-r Guerrero on the Orient Railway. Here
the Villistas are supposed to have
murJcred a mine foreman namea er-
man Plankenburg and two other for-
eigner3.
i. lt is it-ami mat uie iwu
vn Victims are Americans. Four
, junknow
jAmericans-
-Acklin. Hemple, Locke
j.nd Dr. Stell-j-are known to have been
. . '' recently iu or near Minaca. It is not
certain that Villa himself took part
in these murders as it 13 naruiy iiKeiy
he made his way from Minaca to the
Guerrero section in the time elapsed
between the murder of the three for
eigners and the battle on the Ranch.
Some time before tbe crime of Min-
ara. Villa descended on Guerrero miles, is the condensed summary of
where he slaughtered all the Carran- the story of the first engagement be
zistas he could find. After the battle tween the American punitiye expedi
on the San Geronimo ranch, the tion and Francisco Villa.
American soldiers released a large 1 Col. Dodd surprised one hundred of
tuber of General Carranza's, men 1
horn the bandit chief was holding .
to mnrder at his leisure. It is prob
able that it was at the Guerrero Mas
sprre that Villa was wounded. 1
The scene of Col. Dodd's victory is
a broad valley lying at the head ot
the Rio Santa Maria. On the west
rise the barren foothills of the great)
, . -'jcontenental diide and to the eart is i
'- a trail made famous by Villa, wiilch!
leads through the Laguna de Castilla I
district to the ill-famed Santa Ysabel. : regaraea as unimeiy oy army omcers
, .. . . , .l. ,.,-' here, and lass likely that Col. Dodd
, t in nii himvH ? t lZruZ m n I 'a" at Guerrero. Villa was not with
shot in cold blood ";Am"';afm': the defeated and Col. Dodd was be
ing men, e crime wbkn sent a thrill .. . . . , ., , .
of horror throughout . the United 'evd, 10 , forc,n hls cavall7f t0
States and marked the beginning of I e n mo- to run hi down before
the end of his blood-stained rc !J ni It
It was Santa Ysabel that he was be-1 reconcentrate nis scattered men. it
lieved to be beading for Taen trooper. w" t0 rmy headquarters
of the Cited States came down upon : hf T v ",a wounded, that one
. I I of his legs was broken and one of his
, ; hips badly bruised. The dispatch sug
From the meagre details which gesta that pernap8 he ha(1 DPen in.
have reached here from Mexican mil- jurej !n raning fronl nig norge rather
, itary sources. Col. Dodd's men made ,han by a Runghot as iiad been offi
their way unnoticed through the ar- cjany announced. Co. Dodd attacked
royos. or deep gulches which split the the Mexicans at six o'clock, according
foothills in all directions and were t0 General Pershing's report, but
almost in the camp before the alarm , whether the forenoon or in the after
was given. Villa is reported to have noon was not gtate(-.
been in a small tent nursing his in-j Tne four nien by Dod(1
juries when the crash of the American were enlisted men. It was not known
volley awoke the bandits to panic-' at General Funston's headquarters
striken action. j,nat villa and a considerable force of
Unable to walk or ride he was hastl- his men were in that part of the coun
ty placed In a light wagon and driven try. Reports that he attacked the
over the rought mountain trail to ' small garrison at Guerrero and bad
some secret lair. While thirty of the killed more than 150 of its soldiers
bandits are known to have been kill- bad been confirmed and it also was
ed, it is said that the number may reported that he had occupied Minaca,
have been considerable larger. Noth- a short distance south of Guerrero,
ing is yet known as to the number General Cavazos, commander of the
of wounded although it is presumably , Carranza forces operating in that dis-
;n proportion to the dead. !
ExdTtement in El Pao and alone
he border is nt fever hut In evnertu-
apn
-.VmaT
on that at any moment the wires
may Zish the news of Villa s death
or capture. Two days have already
elapsed since the battel of San Ger -
onimo and it is not believed that th
bandit can escape in his crippled and
DODD
UNDER VILLA
Detachments Make 55 Mile
divide, have fallen like a tnunuerncit
and driving tne Danau cntei, wouuu-
ilia was hurried from danger in
i r if . u on
in me evemiiK oi juitu w.
where 500 bandits were celebrating
couple of days previous, at Guerrero,
helpless condition.
The one great factor that is relied
on to bring about his death or capture
is the certainty that his prestige is
gone.
The .ignorance of the peons, who
clung to Pancho ilia as their leader
ana nero, was tne strongest asset ne
possessed. The most absurd lies were
fed to them concerning ilia s ex
ploits and were implicitely believed.
It is certain that the majority were
sure their hero would have an easy
victory over the Americans, and that
he was invincible.
FUNSTON OPTIMISTIC.
SAN.aNTONIO, March 31. Thirty
of Villa's soldiers killed, four Ameri
can soldiers wounded and more than
4 SO Mexicans dispersed after a run
ning fight that extended over ten
Villa's men at Guerrero March 29. His
was the smaller force, comprising de-
tachments of the Seventh and Tenth
Cavalry", but without waiting he began
the attack that finished five hours lat
er when the Villa forces had been
Lhased into the hills northeast of
! Guerrero and broken into small bands.
General Pershing's report reached
General Kunston today. It w-as filed
! at San Geronimo but whether General
Pershing was still there taday was
trict. had reported to bis government
skirmish with Villa's men at Gue-
rrero.
f corns naa nrougnt to uenerai r"er-
inirniBun inai maae mm dp
'eve that the -plans Mlla had under
iway had resulted in the gathering of
1 several hundred men the hope that
(Coatinued on Page Two.)
CAPTURE OE
VILLA NOV
EXPECTED
War Department Expects Gen.
Pershing's Columns to Make
an End to Notorious Ban
dit Within Few Days.
COMMANDING OFFICERS
CONGRATULATED
Congress Takes Time to Lis
ten to the Telegram of Col
onel Dodd's Exploit in Run
ning "Fox" to His Lair.
(By Review Leased Wir.) '
WASHINGTON, March 31. With
Villa's main command shattered by
Colonel Dodd's cavalry dash, the War
Department expects that the death or I
capture of the bandit leader himself
and the successful conclusion of the .
punitive expedition against his raiders a" tnree or the New lork central This morning a command or four
will follow more quickly than had at j trains t,lat were Piled UP in a "clt. hundred infantry left Agua Prieta,
first been anticipated. Everywhere to- at Amherst, Ohio, on Wednesday I marching westward on the road lead
night satisfaction over the exploit 0f I morning, costing the lives of at lea3i.j,,s to Naco. The detachment of one
Col. Dodd and his men is expressed.!'8 PePle and injury to more than 40., thousand cavalry which arrived in
Secretary Baker's congratulations were racing through dense foS in auAgua Prieta from tbe east last night.
n'oro cpnt In h tt nioccapa f mm AT a Inr
effort to make up lost time, that theinner command of Lieut. Col. Jesus
General Scott, chief of staff, to Major
rci r....., nn k Y.rAr.
"The Secretary of War desires you i
to convey to General Pershing and
Colonel Dodd and their commands bis
v . .
lira I iv cuuici mi uini mils uil iiii-u a-i
their ex-
. ...
1 1V'1V" .
On behalf of the President, the"?: "T--ZJ?V from Nclarl- reported that they pass
White House authorized a similar ex-'f f r l I L ?, .. ?J approximately one thousand caval
pression. In Congress the news caused j fmia of the fnnimand of General Ar-
a demonstration of cheers and an- . .today ?r! al . ,rd. IrCad . " P"'l nulfo Gomez riding nortward. The
. .
plaUsein the House when Speaker
Clark interrupted proceedings to rea(';thougn Alben tne yoUngsignal tower
General Pershing's dispatch. Debate
on the army increase bill was halted
for the reading of the telegram in the !
Senate. It was sent to the vice-presi-i
dent's desk by Senator Warren of y-!
; ri ' ( l. ; .
oming. General Pershing's father-in
aw- I
Officials anxiously awaited further ;
news. Army officers believed it prob- j
able that in the hours since the first
word or the skirmish was received it
is possible that even Villa hhnself had
teen found.
Tonight Secretary Baker issued the
following statement:
"The success of Col. Dodd in catch
ing up with the retreating bandits and
dispersing them shows the value and !
effectiveness of the preparations made j
by Gen. Funston for the dash.
"It is a matter of general gratifica-
tion to us all that the first encounter '
is so decisive and that our own troops
have suffered so little.
"The effect on both sides of the bor
der will probably be great, and among
the Mexican, people it will show sin
gleness of our purpose and thus dis
courage other bandits from sympathet
ic demonstrations.
"This conies as a very great relief
and gives strong ground to hope that
the object of the expedition can be ac
complished speedily."
Praise was given in all quarters to'
Colonel Dodd. the veteran cavalry of
ficer who rode with his command con
tinuously for 17 hours, covered 53
miles and then engaged in a five hour
fight. Col. Dodd is 04 years of age.
He will be retired on account of age
next July.
He was appointed to the military
academy from Pennsylvania. He com
manded the Third Cavalry during the
Apache outbreak in Arizona, and dis
tinguished himself during the Spanish
American war. participating in the bat
tie of San Juan Hill, lie is declared
to have been the first to suggest the
now famous "monkey drill" of cavalry
training.
For some time Colonel Dodd had
charge of recruiting at Columbus Bar-. invaders. proved the recent decree or t.enerai
racks. Ohio, and is credited by Adju-1 An official statement regarding the Calles confiscating all lands from ene
tant General McCain with having done I raids says: imies of the government, such lands
much to reduce army desertions, al l
though a strict disciplinarian.
Among the West Point classmates
of Colonel Dodd was Colonel Slocnm.
commanding the Thirteenth Cavalry,
which was raided by Villa at Colum
bus, and who is with the United States
expedition. Inspector General Garling
ton. another classmate, said tonight
Dodd was known in the army for his
fearlessness.
The. Seventh Cavalry is famous as
the regiment which was wiped out in
the Custer Massacre and was cut to
pieces in the Wounded Knee 'ifair tn
issi, tne msi oi ine nig inaian nnis.
That the Villa prisoners taken and
the Carrsnsa soldiers released by Col.
Dodd's victory might aid General
(Continued on Page Three.)
LONDON. - March 31. It is
untioi stood tliat several new
sources of revenue will be tap
ped liy Reginald McKenna, tiio
clixiiccillor of the exchc-.iuer in
the hurtgst to bo introduced in
the House of Commons next
Tuesday. The chancellor has
ma:io a thorough study of a
method for reaching incomes
which are below the present
ma.iinum limit. On the oilier
hund. it is believed that the
.uper-tax on big Incomes may be
increased.
UiG UP THE
RESPONSIBLE
LE
Federal and State Investiga
tion Continue Probe Into
Disaster on New York Cen
tral at Amherst" x
(By Review Leased Wire)
CLEVELAND. March 31. That
I signal block system was defective
I mm " paiwcuiiir man was iu
I blame, was
tne outstanding ieaturein Aua prieta today. It was current-
i of vWeuce taken today at the invest!-
gation to fix responsibility
fnr the
... .
I reck.
... . ., . ... h .
i ne nquiry win csiiiiuue lomorrow.,
i Tl, ., t ..i ... 1 .... 1 J . . . K..
cioseiy cniineciea wmi ine arciueni,', , , ,. v, j -i,j
which resulte(1 so disastrolI.sIy. Ai-!hd
man, upon whom some of the rail-1
road officials at first placed the blame.
denied that he was asleep or even
sleenv bv reason of . lone watcll atjXaco. The men --.id that thvy did not
th bedside or his sick wife. "The
... .
sj;.nai failed to work." Ernest said
F. E. Bausch, night dispatcher for the
New York Central lines in Cleveland,
preUously had given testimony to the
effect that the signal block system
frequently had been found defective.;
especially when storms or severe "ource comes tne report mat six inou
weather prevailed. From Bausch it!snd or more are scattered from Cab
was elicted that all three of the trains i ullona. eighteen miles south of here,
were running behind their schedules j and eastward, in touch with the Cabu
and that the first of train No. 86 had, Hon, creek and Cenizas camping plac
reduced its lost time from 21 minutes ies; that a consolidation of these fore-
to only two minutes in the run from
Toledo to near Amherst where theibnt within a short marching distance
wreck occurred. jof each other.
Bausch contended, however, that the Mexican officers in friendly and con-
Tog was not general but was confined
to Amherst and vicinity.
W. H. Belnp, of the interstate com-j
nierce commission, told Bausch that j
the evidence seemed conclusive that
the fog was general and not confined
to An;herst as Bausch had testified.
FIVE ZEPPELINS RAID
EASTERN COUNTIES OF
j.p. sjri I aftj llipnTjf h rpVDJecIil ""Kauon
LMbLAllU LAul 'libit I .'divided InuTsnial! tracts and put on
the market at about ten pesos per
-n , ! r i r L I "(re The title will carry the provi
INo Details ot Loss by Deatn or ion that the new owners must c uiti
Destruction Had From the! '"id or it win be forfeited to
D -i!. l Off- ... 1M: th government. All trie land includ
Bntisn Utncers. ninety ed formerly( belonged to the Morales
Bombs Are Dropped. jand Camou 'estates, as did the town-
i site, of Agua Prieta. which has also
(By Review Leased Wire. iben seized by the state government.
LONDON. April 1. Five Zeppelin1; The funds obtained from this sale
airships raided the eastern counties ' will be used in construction of munl
c.r England la- night, according to antral building In Agua prieta. ihe con
officii1! announcement just issued. J "ul said.
Thus far it hns been rej.orted Out a- j While General Carranza. head of the
bo.it 10 bombs were dropped by the , defacto government, has not finally ap-
"An nir raid took place last nieht
over the eastern counties In which
fH-e Zeppelins are believed to b:ve;
taken Dnrt. All the raiders crossed
the coast at different places and times j afternoon at 4 o'clock, to Issue a more
ar.d steered different courses. radical decree than any of its prede-
"At present about ninety bombs are. .cessors. He has in course, of prepara
reported to have been dropped in vart- tion a document announcing that state.
our localities in the eastern counties, !taxe will be assessed on a graduated
but the results are not known. i scale. The owner of a small tract of
It Is further reported that hostile!
airships visited the north coast
but
no details have been received
i
WOLGAST LOSES.
RACINE. Wis.. March 31. Ever
Hammr of Chicago ha,da-JurtWlrrrH ul DU' 0I vacant lots
VlUlftpU Ik a U .tJ-J ' : li ir.
. -,d Wotifart. iIl,aiVl'i,-ior,"nlin8ly he.vy.
here touiclit.t' Thenivh antentioft 'of -General Calles. as h
Tin- !'. '. it (Continued on Page i)
the veteran
round bout
are lightweights.
i,
CAiilHZAS
TROOPS IS
WORRY
Much Local Speculation . In
dulged in by Douglas Peo
ple Regarding the Move
ment of Calles Soldiers.
MOBILIZATION OF
12,000 IS SCHEME
Military Governor Plans to
Dispose of Several Thous
and Acres of Land to the
West of Agua Prieta.
(Bv Review Leased Wire.)
DOUGLAS. March 31. Aciivily In
troops trovements northward towards
the Arizona border has caused much
local speculation as to its meaning and
there is a revival of the uneasiness in
C 's city.
! Aguirre. bad disappeared this morning
i and nothing could be seen of the men
Iv rPported that they had gone to Cab-
i '.. . ..
uiiona auring tne
night. There is no
p.....,.,, nn iiwI.t's train
. r-..- r J
jqueda when the train passed through.
A small command of the Thirty-
'third Sonora regiment arrived in Agua
Prieta last night from Hermofcillo. via
know tnP exao' loeation or the re-
1. a r. I n A n t Kilt it hail
gone southward toward Nacpzari.
Mexican sources now report the en
tire force in the Moctezurua-Cumpas
and Nacozari districts to be approxi-
ma tely five thousand. From the same
ies is being effected not in one camp
fidential conversation with the Ameri
cans are quoted as placing the entire
consolidation now being effected at
twelve thousand soldiers.
The plan of General P. Elias Calles,
military governor of Sonora, to dis
pose of several thousand acres of land
confiscated by the state from 'owners
who espoused the cause of Diaz, was
announced this afternoon by Ives G.
Lelevier. defacto Mexican consul here,
who said it had been outlined to him
by General Calles.
j All lands on tbe west side of Agua
nave peen seized ann are Deing neiu
jfc the state.
Calles plnns. while in Hurmosillo
'or wlilcn place ne win start tomorrow
land who cultivates his holdings, will
escape lightly. The large una noia-
ers will be assessed increasingly eavy
taxes, according to the decree. '
"e sln law w'" "P' IO UDU"-
Prover propepy. in tu on improve-
i u9
e a-
L-l
MEN MUST HANG.
PHOENIX. March SI. The
supreme court denied writs of
habeas corpus today to Fran
cisco Rodriguez. N. B. Chavez,
Miguel Feratta and Edward Pe
rt" a. Mexican-) under sentence
of death for murder. The men
were ordered by the court to
be taken from state prison at
Florence to the counties where
they were convicted to be re
sentenced. They were repeatedly re
prieved, twice by Intervention
by the department of State.
i
NEUTRALITY IS
ONLY BROKEN
Ernest Schiller is Hurried to
New York Because of Fear
that Friends Would Attempt
to Rescue Him.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LEWIS, Del.. March 31. .Fearing
that attempts would be made to res
cue Ernest Schiller, the young Ger
man stowaway who, single handed,
captured the British steamer Matoppo
and her crew of 56 men on the high
seas, detectives tonight took Schiller
from his cell in the town jail and hur
ried him by automobile to Burlington
from where he will be taken by train I
to New York. !
The detectives declared they had re
ceived positive information that at
tempts would be made to rescue the
prisoner and with the consent of the
local authorities they decided that he
would be safer in New York.
Schiller, readily consented to go,
saying he would do anything to keep
out of the hands of the British offi
cials. During the afternoon Schiller
was given a hearing before Justice of
the Peace Register, and made a de
tailed statement as to his motives in
stating what be terms a privateering
expedition.
Revenge against England for arrest
ing him as a spy, as well as the spoils
SAYS DARING
GERMAN
were the impelling motives. He was ; lenerri volunteer section and was
uncertain, he said, whether the four Joined b' Senator Hoke Smith. De:i:o
men he had picked up to accompany ! crat in championing the stat troops
him bad abandoned the enterprise, 'as the main force to be relied upon a
"They . were not German." he de-ja reserve for the reeular army. Sena
clared, "I was the only German con-j tor GallinKer. the Republican leader,
cerned and only for my hard luck, f ' and Senator Grandege attacked the
would have turned a better trick than jconstitntionali'y of the proposed feder
the Mo we when it captured the Ap- j alization of the National Guard. On
pant. I was terribly handicapped by
depending on bums and crooks to as
sist me.
"In making war on England I am
guilty of nothing more thau a breach
of neutrality laws of this country. 1
was peacefully practicing my profes
sion of textile engineer in Hull, Eng
land, when the war broke out. A
friend of mine was arrested. Charged
with signalling with calcium lights to
the raiding Zeppelins, he was shot
and I was arrested. I had committed
no offense, but 1 was shut up in a
dirty jail and greatly humiliated, al
though there was no evidence against
nie."
Schiller here halted his recital long!
enought to request assurances that I
this government would take charge of !
the case, and that he would not be
surrendered to Great Britain. He was
told that this was a matter to be de
termined later.
"I told the ,Hull officials that if they young men. Tbe compensation U
persisted in persecuting me. on ac- small.1 the duties are repugnant and.
coiiul - njy German nativity they i except in times of grave danger when
would ,ay for dearly. They could i high pitch of patriotism is aroused,
find no excuse for shooting me, sori ant afraid we will not be able to re-
tney punisnea me ny exiting ine irotnicrnj, anr considerable army "
ine country ana so i came to America.
I spent some time in Danbury New
Haven and Bridgeport. Conn., and
nally Went to Boston where I secured
employment with a textile company.!
ill ih. .l.,.o I w.u f...
venre nn Knzland ami f ' i.ae.l to lie !
awake at nights trying to think of
some scheme. Then it occurred to
me that it would be much simpler for
a prize to run the British blockade.
I went to Hoboken with my plans
fully foimuluted and there got to
gether my gang picking out four of the
most likely looking fellows to accom
pany me on the expedition. I told
them I was out to capture a British
steamer and make it my yacht and
that we could claim the ship as a
prize.
"When I went aboard the Matoppo I
had been told it was another boat,
the El Sparto. I think and that it car
ried at least 110,000 and a cargo of
munitions for tbe allies. 1 don't know
whether tber are on board the El
Sparto, hut if tbey are I wish them
good luck and hope they go ahead
vita niy plan and w in out."
Schiller said be did not regret what
he bad, done and would do it again.
If he had the chum s .
(Continued on Tage Three.)
' V
i ATTACK MADE
!i Oil PART OF
i SENATE'S
il Rll l
l UILL ;
Federalization of the National
Guard is Denounced in Sen
ate as Unconstitutional and
Illogical by Several
PARTY LINES ARE
SWEPT ASUNDER
Secretary Daniels Again Be
fore House Naval Commit
tee With Recommendations
for 1917 Program.
LEAD CONGRESS
(By Review Leased Wir.-.)
SENATE
Met at noon.
Resumed debate on the army re
organization bill.
HOUSE
Met at noon.
Secretary Daniels continued his
testimony before the naval com
mittee. SENATE
Recessed at 5:43 p. m. to noon
Saturday.
Began debate on annual rivers
and harbors bill..
Judiciary committee decided to
submit to the House for a vote en
the resolution holding t S. Dis
trict Attorney Marshall of New
York against whom impeachment
charges are pending in contempt
of the House. Adjourned at 5:nt
to noon Saturday.
WASHINGTON. March 31. Attack
on the provisions for raising a federal
volunteer force and for the federaliza
tion of the national guard featured ine
debute in the Senate today on th ar
my increase bill.
Senator Cummins. Republican, offer
ed an amendment to strike out the
the otier hand. Senator Weeks. Repub
lican. praised the bill and the Cham
berlain substitute of the House bill.
Senatcr Thomas. Democrat, spoke at
length on the question of national pre
paredness, but belittling the expedi
tion force of militarists in the United
States was in dnnger of foreign invas
ion. "Those who feor an invasion by a
European power." he said, "if they
will dmit it. picture in their imagina
tions the advancing helmets of Ger
man soldiers."
Senator Cummins con mended the
; provision for increasing the standing
army, recause present relations with
Mexico necessitated a great military
force. "I think we ought to increase.
the regular army as much as possible"
he said. "I am fearful, however, that
the Increase provided for will not be
found. The army is not attractive tn
DANIELS IN HOUSE
WASHINGTON. March 31. Secre
tary Daniels touched on all sides of
ie navai ireireunes rrusraui m
continuing bis testimony today betore
the House Naval Committee. He pro
nosed various modifications In addi
tion to the bill endorsed by President
Wilson, including the elimination en
tirely of the provisions for great sen
submarines in the 1917 estimate.
Instead of an appropriation for larg
er vessels the secretary suggested a
smaller type be built for test purposes
Thirty 1. type or K type boats may lie
the number agreed upon.
Other new features proposed by Mr.
Daniels were:
Construction of a great dry dock at
Norfolk and possibly at Philadelphia:
establishment of a marine, aviation
and submarine base at San Diego. Cal
ifornia: study of the Pacific Coast tt
determine the best locations for an ad
ditional navy yard there, probably at
Los Aneelea or San Dieto: expendi
ture of $175,000 to clear the approach
to the Charleston. 8. C. yard fr heavy
draft ships, and authorizing the rank
(Continued on page three)
s.
4 V
l ' 1 i
