fli
pgl m Posten on "Am, Fork Canyon-ffieomrng Mining Camp of the State isrss : I
'American rlorkTCitizen 1
VOL. XI" AMi;iUCANl.OIUCtflTIZKN,3UnDAY, Al'itll, 1, ip6. " " " NUMUKIl CO J 4
Mines and Mining I
PIHSBURG COMMMENCE
SHIPMENTS MAY 1ST
Among the beet iigwb Hint has como
from tho canyon recently Is tho state
ment from the officials of the Pitts
burg Mining nnd Milling Company,
that this pronci ty will commence
sending ore down the canyon May 1st,
from Us largo oio reserves that tho
minora have been blocking out dur
ing the past winter.
Whcic tho Pittsburg fissure Inter
sects thp contact, the Company en.
glnccr, J. H. l.eggat, cstlmateH that
over 12,00rt tons of ore have been
blocked out, that will assay 29.02 per
cent lnc, 26 percent lend, 5 ounces
silver and 40 cents gold. In tho lat
eral drifts, their engineer estimates
that 20,000 tonH of comma clal ore
have been opened up, which at pres
ent prices gives tho exposed product
a aluatlon of from ono to one anr"
a half millions of dollars, When thlt,
ore commences coming down tho can
yon and Is added to u bundled tons
per day that the Pacific Is capable of
suppblng, It Is easy lo figure that
American Fork Canyon will be n. busy
place.
Tho Pittsburg has had n forro or
miners also engaged tho past whiter
running a tunnel fiom tho Alta side
of tho hill to connect with the sever
al tunnels on the Amcilcan Fork side
where all tho oro development work
has been prosecuted. Tho tunnel from
the Alta side, known as tho Tarbett
tunnel, Is now in 260 feet. It is estl-
matcd that there Is yet 1,200 feet to
can Fork tunnel, but powcrTirillWllI
lo used Instead of ninglo jack, next
Hmonlh, nnd then tho men will mnko
BlO or ID feet per day. Work will nl
Hso be prosecuted from tho No. 2 tun
Bjnrl on this sldo of tho mountain
which should onahlo the 2,200 foot
bore to be completed In the lnt(cr
part of the summer.
H When tho Pittsburg fissure Is cut, It
is the management's Intention to
drift on it to the cast end of the com-
pany's propoity, a distance ir 11,000
feet. This deep tunnel will thorough.
ly unwnter the mine and mnko an
arcaway to work nil tho fissures, nnd
afford an Immense amount of sloping
ground f,or tho moro convenient ex
traction of tho oro bodies that llo In
tho llmo beds and along tho plnncs.
Tho Miller Hill and Wyoming fissures
are among tho ones that will bo cut
by this long tunnel.
It Is qulto probnblo that an area)
tramway will bo put In from tho pi op
crty to tho bottom .of Pittsburg hill
for more conveniently getting tho ore
down to the wagons. Tho company Ir
capitalized for 50,000 shnrcs, of
which 115,000 Is still In tho treasury
Ust week GO.000 shnres of treasury
stock wcio sold at DO conls per share,
Milch Is thought lo bo sufficient tofln
janco tho company In making nil no-
cessary Improvements nnd until Uio
treasuiy commences to bo replenish.
H fd from snlcu or oro.
Tho Pittsburg dlrcctois, A. II, Tar-
ijftt, J o Doollttlo, Herman Grocn,
Dr. p s Keogh and lllsinark Snyder
arc among tlc loading mining nnd
business men of tho state
Ikhcmn fork canyon
i stocme active
As an Indication of tho increasing
Inieie t being shown in tho Canyon
mines tho stock ochnngo is n fair
barometer Stocks that went begging
ono year ago aio now worth nnd
brlnginp tlom 2 , 10 moH wlmt Uloy
u'd thin in ovoiy Instiineo, wltboul
mi exception, this Is tho rulo with
American Fork utockB. Hnrl-Kuglr
''.n been most actlvo dining tho pas,l
nk and over 10,000 shares hnvo been
ld ai2u and 20Vi cents per Hharo.
Mineral Flat which was begging nt
cents loss than ono year ago, was
Kohl at 8 cents, mid predictions nio
rcely being modo that It will go to
B cents In 00 days. Toxau Is anothor
Property that was nctlvoly traded In
l pi Ices mound 20 emits. Hay State
iih first liHted Inst week nnd tho
li si Kales wern rccoiilcd at 7 ccntn.
Tii vviek the stock gradually cllm-
"' In 11 cents, with n good domaiid
inrtily ri owing for II Miller Hill,
v h llir Pacific flssuio running Into
t. Ii.n been steadily climbing from
Jo cents u e1ir ago to sales of 27c
sweek and u good demand nt that
0 cents, nt which latgo mocks have
been changing hands Mountain Lake
i clllng not long since at I cents is now
being bid 11 cents with v cents asked.
TIicho n ro all listed stocks. Unlisted
Mocks nro showing much activity but
in Ices In them aic showing greater
fluctuations. Quito a number of sales
were mado this week In Pittsburg nt
DO cents per shaic and It la reported
that tho samo figure was icfused for
a block of Pacific. Those best posted
'ay that, befoio the Hummer lias gone,
ovcrnl of those mentioned will be
bringing dollars per share.
n
BIG NEWS FROM TEXAN
IS JUSUBOUT OUE
From Malinger Chin lea Tyng It Is
'earned that everything now points
to tho opening or an oie shoot In tho
I'yng tunnel at almost any time, 'in
a previous Issue of the Cltlen It was
explained that a poiphry dyke had
been cut and that tho mlneiallzatlon
Indicated bettor things close at hand.
When Supcilutcndent Il.uiy Krusc
made his icpoit to Mr. Tyng at Salt
Lake, tho first or this week he ex
plained that the Texan tunnel was
then in a distance of about 1,200 feet
and that tho iiinrtzllo through which
tho tunnel is being driven at the pies
rnt time, " is harder than tho hinges
of hades," and that slow pi ogress was
dicing mado.
Tho Tyng tunuol, which Is develop
ing (ho mine nt a depth of 210 feet
higher than tho Toxau tunnel and
Tin fetirTwo"porpliry dikes had been
cut, the fliht ono twelve feet thick,
followed by n belt of decomposed llmo
then eight feci or mineralized poiphry
tod n belt or white, solublo lime.
Superintendent Kruno returned lo
tho initio with Instructions Horn Man.
tiger Tyng to uso his own Judgement
In tho character or woik ho would
prospcutc In this tunnel after i cach
ing camp again, nnd Mr. Kruno left
Manager Tyng charged to the guards
with rnlhiiBliiHiu and with thu utnlo
incnt: "All right. When I como down again,
I am coming with Hainplcs of ore from
tho Tyng tunnel workings and you
may look for mo at almost any tliile."
Manager Tyn- rtutcs tlmt the woik
In tho Tyng tunnel Is now piogiess
Ing In precisely tho samo contact tar
nation In which a smnll amount of
flno ore niiulc Its iippcaranco In the
Texan tunnel n fiw months ago, aev
ral bundled feet back or tho present
nco of that deep boro. No attention
was paid to tho discovery In tho Tox
in tunnel, because at that point the
contact foi million dcscilbcd was sc
ienr tho sin face on Its pitch with tin
hill and so badly broken up that nolli
lug much was to bo expected fiom It
However, nt tho point where It has
been cut by tho Tyng tunnel every
strata of tho foi mutton, which cuts
through tho country exactly noith and
south, Is solid and In plnco.
"Everything Is Jubt light lor the
making or oio," bald Mr. Tyng to a
ronrcsentatlvo or tho Citizen, "and II
Ih only n matter of following It In tin
direction of tho flssureB by which H
Is Intoiccptcd to open up iiomo good
bodies of oro at IcubI that Is my firm
conviction and Superintendent Krusi
lgrces with mo perfectly."
In other woids, everything Is prov
ing up at tho Tcmiii Just as It has been
,'lguicd out, so good novvH may bo ex
acted from tlmt propnty bcfon
nany weeks nnd possibly das havi
Hissed.
SALT LAKE
INMSTS CONTROL
BREDEMEYER GROUP
Major Sam King, tho well known
ilULakc mining attorney Is authoi
ity for tho statement that ono of tho
Canyon piopertles that will become
actlvo Just as soon as reorganization
enu bo completed will liothn'llicdnicy
ir group, Just noith or tho Miller Mill.
Major King will bead the new com
puny that in compimed or well knowr
Salt Lake mining ami buMursa uir
nnd who bavo pin chased all the In
oie.sts or Uu'drineyiT'n widow
Tho Iloidmeyei- property ba.i pio
duccd Homo flno oro nnd under the
now organization Is counted on to bo-
FUTURE PRICES OF i
SILVER AND LEADJ
Hext Information from (he World of
l'liimicc Indicates That Free CoIh- a
iirc Is Sure to Conic Necessity Dc
iniinds It Lend Also llndly 'ecd. 'i
cd nnd Supply Inadequate Means 4
Millions to American Fork Mines.
In the Financial Dally American
of a few dnys ago Is nn article" .
by Herman Zadlg, of San FrnncIscc-7
predicting tho early remoiictlzatlon of
Mlver. Tho writer declares It will be
necessary to givo gold and silver a
parity b-iDls that will bo world wide
and fixed, because there will not
bo nnvthlng like half gold enough lo i
pay Interest on war debts. '
Thiough tho rcmonctlzatlon of sliver '
the w 01 Id's metallic money can be J
neatly doubled, and oven then,
Mr. Zadlg figures It will bo ,
found that the amount of metallic
noney will icnialn away under the J
demands that will bo mado upon It. ;
Ho expects that the United States will ',
e flist to suggrBt the icnioiictlzatlon '
of the metal and expi esses tho bullet I
Unit nil furclgu cuuutiles will bo (illicit j
to adopt tho Biiggcstlon and help In
rixlng 11 world-wldo intloii , '
Reports from lOiuloii enily In the
present month showed that already,
a sliver fnmliio was iip)mient. Tlio silv
er held by tho Dank or Kngtaud In
1101 mill times amounts to about $5,000
000. Tho latest return shows only
$7C0.0O0. Six montlm ago I.otidon'H
r.tock of stiver was estimated at$5,0O0;
000. On tho first or March bullion
btokcrs put It at $300,000. f Tk4jj
aulohrity from whom this cvS
was becured, explaluu at loiH
ttio,'HllvcnrenvilrcnientB of ."ta'iyoPW
triciidTrW,prclctnlll1aTfWnlfl
will shortly go to seventy cents nn
ounce or better, and as tho price
In now ideadlly ndvanclng, there Ir
110 rciibon to iiicstlon his premises.
At the same time, and in the face
of tho fact that tho smelter hunt Is
doing over) thing possible to hold down
tho price at which settlements are
made, the market pilco ol lead Ir
Htcadlly and rapidly climbing, as well
A year ago It won worth only about
lo, while toda; It la commanding
neai ly twice that much, and evident
ly Is going higher ntlll.
Just think what these coudltlom
mcanB Tor tho mining companies opei
iitlusr In tho American Folk dlstilct
whero the oics all run high In silver
and lead. Within a few weeks past
just lo Illustrate, tho value of tho flint
rliiBH 01 ca of the Pacific mine, cull
mating them as carrying fifty pei
cent lead and fifty ounces silver pel
ton, have been enhanced In value not
ess than ?25 or $30 n ton. Ote that
van worth, say, C0 a ton a jenr ago
low, Is easily worth today not les
'ban $7G.
What applies lo this ono mine vvl.
vpp'y to every producer In tho ill
1 let mid theio will bo many of them
within tho next six montlm ho It I
not hard to flguro what a craud tiling
it will bo for our camp when sllvci
Is going at 70c to 90o an ounce and
lead at 8c1 a pound. Why, It will sim
ply mean millions to Amorlciin Folk,
And If tho pioduct or our own ilcb
enmp la to becomo bo vnlunblo In a
short time, why should wo not n "P
ind doing," so as to bo lead) to get
the beat tho niiiikct uffoith. Think u
what it will menu to iieo $75 to 1 1 Go
ro streaming down the Can) on fion
ho Pacific, tho Hay Stato, tho Mlllc
llll nnd tho Texan, tho Wlililwlnd,
ho Dutchman, tho Kiul.Knglo and the
Hobo, tho llclorophan nnd tho old
Miller mine, and tho dozens of other
nopoitlea which nrc now icady to
hip or which soon will bo? Why, Hick
s nothing to It; American Folk bu
Mist got to outBblno aoout evcr.vthlni
n sight bcfoic this year Is over
So wnko up; get busy and main
my whllo tho sun shines.
WILL SOON MOVE
FOR CARNEGIE LIBRARY
Tho American Fork CIlc-H-tt"r
nent League Is la)lng plans lor 1
camimlgn that will booh bo liia"Brat
ed for tho establishment or 11 Fu-e I
neglo Library In this city. The sm
.ess or tin local free llluaiy 'luilii
lis sboit hlMilr)Hiat.-Iplrnl the He
f loiiilm-tlng one mi a inoir cnK-i
lie M'lilf . and that ll I'" "i M' I'
lug with Hi" other affair 1 of ""' ,ltv
Oflnliil of th l,ariHgli'l'ii'l,",nc
fund havo been coiiiniiiiilinlrd i
and hnvo sent back the miawrr m
m? i
m Chipmah Mercantile Co- :: : 1
s ; m
phe Store of Quality The Store of Quantify The Store of Low Prices t jl
jl:; M
S- l AMERICAN FORK, UTAH COUNTY, UTAH. 'H
3 I
g m
V ' u r- Our prices arc ab- fi
MThoro is no use -Ji?Siij ,-,., solutcly LESS il
inoing to Salt Lako feajfflfl-LJjjJO than Salt Lako can A .' if
City or clscwhcro H""-1 i llMBt' afford- 4 j,Jg
WiXor assortment- -$l -L -- Don't think of buy jjfl
HIPHAN'S BIG r Jfif JZ ,l,ff your arUclC3 1 W
minn qTopv ir&q SStaafiliiCi lluvi,,ff Cofcroco 'IS
Wj JisilNr SmUS Qot tho,n ni1 ijoforc 1
4b No use to iro anv- jo o
3- u 1 r WE ARE ALWAYS READY TO TALK 25 per cent andj it
m- whom nlio for t4F- .airzk"' iff;
M' OUALITY Vil1' Sm :,,Hul um' ,,Mi,,li,l'? 1,la,,S' l',U'"- Uy?Wffimy&i m
yuAMiY. (l tluuilo-. on vour ItiinlxM nnd niatiM'iiil t home. ' is m
1 flHiPMAiiq bilk nnil (u imparl n iul'unnaliou wv There arc diffdr4rW !w
I'nAPpt-r mabl;lMoKivt.. ways you can bog W
M " GARRY THE . ti(m' expi't't mi on lor fverv linn volt held up. '
H ' ' BEST GOING "vo in Mfity, nnd will .jut liiituraliv be FT pRI0ES BE " ilffl
K r glad lo Hoc vim nt any time. uli iwuaoDa- jhi
m&t CHIPMAN LUMBER YARD , . . FOREGOING. . M
b lower bes-i'lTWCfr QuiuiLrJDSPHi
Lawn Mowers Lawn Sprinklers. - Lawn Hoese 4 j
4 II
m
Chipman's Cash Prices Count m
m
, 11
uto J5.000 or ? 10,000 for a Ulnar
Imlldlui; JiiBt iih Boon iib the city doca
lln pint. A duzeu Utah cIIIch of lent
ilctentloliH tliatf Aiiu'ilcau l''ollt have
taken advaiitMfio of Mr. CaiucKlu'n "tTei
and have fliui llbiaileH that ar a
11 edit lo their tuuiiH. It la prolmhli
1'ial tho I'arcnl'H vlitHbeii and othei
church 01 Kiuil.atloini will help In the
niattor.
Tho Lcncuu him made iiiraiiKCiiii'iitK
for Apostlo A. V. Iveim, llll KiIkiii
Vouiib, Dr. lleatty and llovviud It
DrlfiMH to deliver lectin i-h in thla elt)
In tho near futtiie The fht IicIiiit
will be on tho Mexican nltuatlou
n
AMERICAN FOUL
llcfcnN l.ehl anil ricaianl (Jrinu In
Joint Iti'liatcs.
Saluiday night tho Ameilcan Koik
llgli School defeated both l.ehl and
Pleasant Giovo In tho lutor-lllRh
School dcbntcH on tho iucHtlon, "IIch
olved, that tho U. H, Hliould abandon
tho Monroo Doctrine." Uncli IIIrIi
School had two -tcmiii. and a debate
mis held in each town.
The victory Is n slnsular ono, In
ismucli as nenily all tho IiIkIi school
earns, nnd tho thiec rollcpo teams
mvo been tied, tho nepitlvo nldo win
iIiir In nearly every Inutnnee.
The nftlimntlvp team fiom Anieilcaii
i.-otk were Wnynb,,Vlleo. nnd, JJiijii
low ley Thj-MwTif by a unaiiMu
oto from Oru jtooliclt and Wm.iiil
011 or I.ehl, -' ; " ' !
Tho fyrt(aJlvo team, Delia Sliallei
ml CJaVumf Orniil wop fiom I'leai
mt Grov'fl-b'y a - to 1 vote
Tho Judges were nil educatlona'
nen fiom IMovo and Bait Uih" City
Tho local team will now be tallei
poll to drrmid their vlctorj iiBalim.
ho vvlnijera in other dlstrliln or ll
tate Theso debatea have not yi'1
heeii announced, but will be held il
hn near futtiie
Meanwhile the vhton vlll bav l
mior or havlnr their nam" In till
d on the Martin DibatliiK Tib'
plendlil allvcr vutti Riven l Mi M '
tin, tho local jowcler, to thoho who wir
ABAN FORK MAN'
HAS VALUABLE
INVENTION
Aitbur Dlckermm entile down fiom
Kail l.aku WelueHday and wiik dem.
ouiitralluc a imist valuablo Improve
HH'iil In tin1 Hp.uk dixit Ibutiiig li'a
tiiiiH of aiitomoblleH, beliiK paitleu
Inily an iiiipiovemout on tho cuinutal
or uuiit li) the FumI. With II the ma
chine can bo Htm ted inuio easily and
run an nlow an tluco iuIIom on IiIrIi. ,
!t la mucli Ickh uolay than thoua
now In uso and will cohI but about'
olio-tenth an much to produce, yov
eral local people aie iiImi IntoieHted
.mil ir the ImpiovDinenl in nil (lint Hh
owiioih cbilm for it, Mr. DlekcrBon
and bl atihoclateu fitaud to mnko a
million out of It.
COUNTY ATTORNEY
MADE DEFENDANT
Thin week u Hull wau riled In the
Dlstilct couit, cIiiiibIhb Ocoibo
I'.ukcr with fiaudulontly rcreivlnc
riuin Utah County JII5. The ease will
como up for bcniliiR Apill 3.
Mr. I'aiker Is tho pitwout city at
torney or Aiiioilriin Koik and .1. V N
Whlti cotton, our ex-tlty atloiuoy l
the man who iiinkoH tho ciuirKO. .'.e
inidliiB to "it' Infoimatioii filed, the
County attorney vvim nllnvml $r.r, jk-i
luontli for expcimeH for u HteuoRi.m
her, and It Ih ehnrBod that of t
amount t'aikor koit VW and i
J3G to tin HtonoRiapber.
The dofondnut nver that the extr.
$30 n month ha benu tigcd In hocur
Iiik oiitni help. He snld that he had
onteiod Into an iikiociiioiiI with t lie
county eoiiunlBHlcnr whereby the
olllco of iiKHlHtniit count) nttnriiK) win
In bo.dlBpeiiKid with, and Unit the $W.
n month was to eaic for tlili olllcc
ml also foi hl leKiilar olllco help
Koliln on atioiiHi, li nald In
xti um v l'.uku to bavt icttlvcd the
rf" inoiiiy for a Hl'tiiutt In It at
I v oik
loner, It In learned .that both tho ' ?Jl
ihaiKo l Mr. Whitecottou and (ho IJR
.iiiHWer b Attorney I'aikor aio nub- IMf
t.iiitlally cuncct. Then mini lulu IK
in the punt Iiiih been (o allow thu H
County Altuniey an iisHlstniit to help, Xflp
at a xulary In ailiauco of tho amount K
voted for a liteuoBnipher. Mr. I'aiker Wm
iladned that by dovutlui; bin tlmu to H
tho Olllco nnd with tho help of n mSsS
iti'iiuBMpht'i', he would mod no rcgu- Wm
l.tr iiaidKtaul. Tiili.inkally, the $C jIV
ivim voted for lln (cuoRi'aphcr, but Wm
oiil) ajj.irt of' thu amount vvim paid to vs
her, whllo the balance waa iu.cd by mm
(lie fliui or I'aiker and Itobluson for HH
ex tin help to attend to County busl- XI
IICHt). MB
Tho amount uacd by tho County At- aB
toiuey Tor lila Kiilaiy and that of hlu IH
HtcuoRrnphor wiib lewi than that of KM
IiIh iiiedcccHbor, (Irani llai;Ioy, for SB
liluiflolf and iiHHlHtiint, and who Ih unld 11
to bo helpliiB Judco Whllecotton In MM
tho ciiho. HI
It all appelant to ho InHplicd by pol. ffifl
oIIch, duo to Iho couilng election nnd Wjj
by n bit or JealoiiHy becaiiHo Mr. I'uik- W
cr kiicccciIh liaBley n County Attorney wgk
and Whilecotlon ad City Attoiuey for jJ
American Kork. Tho clinliiiian of (he njj
County ComuilBHloucrB aaya (lint mid- aW
er tho new arinuBemcnt tho county jSH
In aavliiB money, and In roUIiir equal- fUflj
ly iih elllclmil fiorvlcea an vmis given wfl
foimer, tbuugh technically thu WR
apiiiojiiliitlou wan all voted to tho KJj
iteuoBir.pher. MB
. -, . i .,. o 9H!
Notice Contractors m
Notico Ih hereby given Unit healed Ws
I blit will bo i evolved by Amei lean Pork fmai
Ity for thu IowciIiir of the picHent Bf
i Ipe Hue, exIumlliiB from tho City W.
Well, noar tho old lloblusoii mill alto 9f
and o.xtemlliiK south lo (ho water- Ri
works Bottling tank Pipe lit (o bo 12 W
feet deep at well, gradually approach- Vtt
Iob tho Hinl'iieo In Hh miiithlioiind mt
(oiiiho. llliU iiiuhI bo In thu hauilti of BJ
(Ml) ltecurder not later than Api II 7th, ,Wr
111 l(i For Hiceiricatlons neo Mayor !
John lliinter Council rosorvcH tho flm
light to reject any or all bldrt. ' II1
1 It IIY OIlDKIl Oi: city COl'NCll, m
i
Ituul the want column uds. They s
